Oats are widely consumed throughout the world because of their nutritive value, with their yield and quality being associated with the developmental process of grain development. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of the transcriptional dynamics of this process have not yet been fully elucidated. In this study, RNA-seq was performed to investigate the transcriptional dynamics and identify the key genes involved in the development of the oat grain at four different developmental stages. A total of 33,197 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including 1,308 differentially expressed transcription factors (TFs) were identified, 398 DEGs associated with plant hormone signal transduction and 107 DEGs associated with starch and sucrose metabolism. The main concern of this study was to include those genes associated with hormone signaling, and the sucrose and starch metabolism pathways. The results of this study provide valuable insights into the genetic resources affecting the molecular mechanism underlying the development of the oat grain, as well as establishing a strong theoretical foundation for its improvement.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative condition, with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) often presenting as an early symptom. Patients with MCI are more likely to experience subsequent long-term cognitive impairments and memory dysfunction. Currently, there are no effective therapeutic agents available for the clinical treatment of AD due to its highly complex pathogenesis. We investigated the neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects of green oat cognitaven® in vitro, using lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated BV-2 microglial cells, and in vivo, using a scopolamine-injected C57BL/6 J amnesic mouse model. The mice were orally administered green oat cognitaven® (90, 180, and 270 mg/kg/b.w.) for 14 days and injected intraperitoneally with scopolamine (1 mg/kg/b.w.) for 14 days. In vitro, green oat cognitaven® exhibited multiple actions in LPS-stimulated BV-2 microglial cells, including strong inhibition of NO release, significantly reduced inflammatory responses, and anti-inflammatory effects. Green oat cognitaven® also demonstrated vigorous anti-neuroinflammatory activity in these cells, inhibiting the activation and phosphorylation of the NF-κB/MAPK signaling pathway. In vivo, the oral administration of green oat cognitaven® in scopolamine-induced amnesic mice produced significant anti-amnesic effects-preventing spatial learning and memory impairments-and demonstrated potent neuroprotective activity through the upregulation of associated biomarkers, including p-CREB and BDNF protein expression. Further experiments showed that green oat cognitaven® upregulates Nrf2/HO-1 expression and mitigates neuroinflammation by inhibiting NF-κB and MAPK signaling. Overall, our study indicated that green oat cognitaven® is a functional dietary component and explores its therapeutic potential to support the treatment and management of AD-associated MCI.
High-fat diets (HFDs) have been found to compromise male fertility, with cholesterol dysregulation being a key factor. Sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 (SREBP2) is a crucial transcription factor that regulates cholesterol biosynthesis and uptake, playing an essential role in maintaining cholesterol homeostasis in the testes. This study investigated the dynamics of SREBP2 and cholesterol levels during rabbit spermatogenesis under HFD conditions. Our findings reveal that SREBP2 expression fluctuates throughout the seminiferous epithelium cycle. However, HFDs induce stage-specific disruptions in cholesterol balance, leading to sperm with increased membrane cholesterol, a reduced sperm count in semen analysis, impaired motility, abnormal morphology, and decreased functionality. In the control group, SREBP2 expression patterns underscored its critical role in normal spermatogenesis. Interestingly, supplementation with extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) reversed the negative effects of HFD, normalizing SREBP2 expression and cholesterol content, which improved sperm quality. These findings emphasize the importance of stage-specific analysis in understanding how dietary fat impacts male fertility and suggest that EVOO may serve as a potential nutritional intervention to protect reproductive health.
HD-Zip transcription factors are an important class of plant transcription factors involved in regulating plant growth and development as well as various stress responses. In order to explore the characteristics of oat HD-Zip transcription factors and their transcriptomic expression patterns under abiotic stress, this study identified members of the HD-Zip gene family in the oat genome through bioinformatics methods and analyzed their basic physicochemical properties, evolutionary relationships, conserved structural domains, gene duplication relationships, and expression profiles. 74 HD-Zip gene sequences were identified in the oat genome, unevenly distributed in all chromosomes except the 4D chromosome. The 74 HD-Zip genes can be divided into four subfamilies (HD-Zip Ⅰ-Ⅳ), containing 30 (HD-Zip Ⅰ), 38 (HD-Zip Ⅱ), 4 (HD-Zip III), and 2 (HD-Zip IV) genes, respectively. The grouping of this study is completely consistent with the clustering results of family members in the oat HD-Zip gene phylogenetic tree, further supporting the reliability of the sequence grouping. In addition, there are significant differences in conserved motifs and gene lengths between subfamilies, but they are conserved within the same subfamily. Under drought and salt stress, the expression levels of a large number of oat HD-Zip genes were significantly induced or suppressed, indicating that these HD-Zip genes are likely to be involved in regulating the oat's response to adversity. The results of this study provide excellent candidate HD-Zip genes for the study of oat resistance, and provide a reference for oat gene improvement and genetic breeding.
Flavonoids in Musaceae are involved in pigmentation and stress responses, including cold resistance, and are a component of the healthy human diet. Identification and analysis of the sequence and copy number of flavonoid biosynthetic genes are valuable for understanding the nature and diversity of flavonoid evolution in Musaceae species. In this study, we identified 71-80 flavonoid biosynthetic genes in chromosome-scale genome sequence assemblies of Musaceae, including those of
The endeavour to elevate the nutritional value of oat (Avena sativa) by altering the oil composition and content positions it as an optimal crop for fostering human health and animal feed. However, optimization of oil traits on oat through conventional breeding is challenging due to its quantitative nature and complexity of the oat genome. We introduced two constructs containing three key genes integral to lipid biosynthesis and/or regulatory pathways from Arabidopsis (AtWRI1 and AtDGAT1) and Sesame (SiOLEOSIN) into the oat cultivar 'Park' to modify the fatty acid composition. Four homozygous transgenic lines were generated with a transformation frequency of 7%. The expression of these introduced genes initiated a comprehensive transcriptional reprogramming in oat grains and leaves. Notably, endogenous DGAT, WRI1 and OLEOSIN genes experienced upregulation, while genes associated with fatty acid biosynthesis, such as KASII, SACPD and FAD2, displayed antagonistic expression patterns between oat grains and leaves. Transcriptomic analyses highlighted significant differential gene expression, particularly enriched in lipid metabolism. Comparing the transgenic oat plants with the wild type, we observed a remarkable increase of up to 34% in oleic acid content in oat grains. Furthermore, there were marked improvements in the total oil content in oat leaves, as well as primary metabolites changes in both oat grains and leaves, while maintaining homeostasis in the transgenic oat plants. These findings underscore the effectiveness of genetic engineering in manipulating oat oil composition and content, offering promising implications for human consumption and animal feeding through oat crop improvement programmes.
Oat anthranilamides have demonstrated antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects; however, the precise mechanism of action remains unclear. This study investigated the impact of oat anthranilamide B (AVN B) on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced intestinal inflammation in mice and its underlying mechanisms. The results indicated that AVN B supplementation mitigated weight gain and reduced inflammatory and oxidative stress markers in serum, liver, and intestines. It improved intestinal barrier dysfunction by upregulating the expression levels of Occludin and MUC2 while simultaneously reducing intestinal inflammation by inhibiting the TLR4/NF-κB signalling pathway. Additionally, AVN B treatment improved gut microbiota composition. It increased the abundance of beneficial flora and the production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), especially propionate and butyrate, associated with reduced production of pro-inflammatory factors and enhanced intestinal protection. The findings provide scientific evidence for the potential of AVN B as an anti-inflammatory agent. Oat AVN B reduces body weight gain and inflammation levels in HFD-fed miceAVN B protects the intestinal barrier and inhibits intestinal inflammationAVN B inhibits TLR4/NF-κB signalling pathway in the ileum of HFD-induced miceAVN B improves gut microbial imbalance in HFD-induced miceAVN B increases butyrate and propionic acid by promoting SCFA-producing bacteria.
Lipid metabolism disorders contribute to a range of human diseases, including liver-related pathologies. Rabbits, highly sensitive to dietary cholesterol, provide a model for understanding the development of liver disorders. Sterol regulatory element-binding protein isoform 2 (SREBP2) crucially regulates intracellular cholesterol pathways. Extra-virgin olive oil (EVOO) has shown reducing cholesterol levels and restoring liver parameters affected by HFD. The aim was to investigate the molecular impact of an HFD and supplemented with EVOO on rabbit liver cholesterol metabolism. Male rabbits were assigned to dietary cohorts, including control, acute/chronic HFD, sequential HFD with EVOO, and EVOO. Parameters such as serum lipid profiles, hepatic enzymes, body weight, and molecular analyses. After 6 months of HFD, plasma and hepatic cholesterol increased with decreased SREBP2 and 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR) expression. Prolonged HFD increased cholesterol levels, upregulating SREBP2 mRNA and HMGCR protein. Combining this with EVOO lowered cholesterol, increased SREBP2 mRNA, and upregulated low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) expression. HFD-induced metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease was mitigated by EVOO. In conclusion, the SREBP2 system responds to dietary changes. In rabbits, the SREBP2 system responds to dietary changes. Acute HFD hinders cholesterol synthesis, while prolonged HFD disrupts regulation, causing SREBP2 upregulation. EVOO intake prompts LDLR upregulation, potentially enhancing cholesterol clearance and restoring hepatic alterations.
The myeloblastosis (MYB) transcription factor (TF) family is one of the largest and most important TF families in plants, playing an important role in a life cycle and abiotic stress. In this study, 268 Avena sativa MYB (AsMYB) TFs from Avena sativa were identified and named according to their order of location on the chromosomes, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis of the AsMYB and Arabidopsis MYB proteins were performed to determine their homology, the AsMYB1R proteins were classified into 5 subgroups, and the AsMYB2R proteins were classified into 34 subgroups. The conserved domains and gene structure were highly conserved among the subgroups. Eight differentially expressed AsMYB genes were screened in the transcriptome of transcriptional data and validated through RT-qPCR. Three genes in AsMYB2R subgroup, which are related to the shortened growth period, stomatal closure, and nutrient and water transport by PEG-induced drought stress, were investigated in more details. The AsMYB1R subgroup genes LHY and REV 1, together with GST, regulate ROS homeostasis to ensure ROS signal transduction and scavenge excess ROS to avoid oxidative damage. The results of this study confirmed that the AsMYB TFs family is involved in the homeostatic regulation of ROS under drought stress. This lays the foundation for further investigating the involvement of the AsMYB TFs family in regulating A. sativa drought response mechanisms.
Optogenetics' advancement has made light induction attractive for controlling biological processes due to its advantages of fine-tunability, reversibility, and low toxicity. The lactose operon induction system, commonly used in Escherichia coli, relies on the binding of lactose or isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) to the lactose repressor protein LacI, playing a pivotal role in controlling the lactose operon. Here, we harnessed the light-responsive light-oxygen-voltage 2 (LOV2) domain from Avena sativa phototropin 1 as a tool for light control and engineered LacI into two light-responsive variants, OptoLacIL and OptoLacID. These variants exhibit direct responsiveness to light and darkness, respectively, eliminating the need for IPTG. Building upon OptoLacI, we constructed two light-controlled E. coli gene expression systems, OptoE.coliLight system and OptoE.coliDark system. These systems enable bifunctional gene expression regulation in E. coli through light manipulation and show superior controllability compared to IPTG-induced systems. We applied the OptoE.coliDark system to protein production and metabolic flux control. Protein production levels are comparable to those induced by IPTG. Notably, the titers of dark-induced production of 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) and ergothioneine exceeded 110% and 60% of those induced by IPTG, respectively. The development of OptoLacI will contribute to the advancement of the field of optogenetic protein engineering, holding substantial potential applications across various fields.
Whole-grain foods are rich in bound polyphenols (BPs) whose health benefits were largely underestimated compared with free polyphenols. We first found that DFBP (dietary fiber with BPs from oat bran) exhibited stronger colonic antioxidant activities than DF. 16S rRNA sequencing showed that DFBP selectively changed gut microbial composition, which reciprocally released BPs from DFBP. Released polyphenols from DFBP reduced excessive colonic ROS and exhibited colonic antioxidant activities via the ROS/Akt/Nrf2 pathway revealed by transcriptome and western blot analysis. Colonic antioxidant activities of DFBP mediated by gut microbiota were next proven by treating mice with broad-spectrum antibiotics. Next,
SQUAMOSA promoter binding-like proteins (SPLs) are important transcription factors that influence growth phase transition and reproduction in plants. SPLs are targeted by miR156 but the SPL/miR156 module is completely unknown in oat. We identified 28 oat SPL genes (AsSPLs) distributed across all 21 oat chromosomes except for 4C and 6D. The oat- SPL gene family represented six of eight SPL phylogenetic groups, with no AsSPLs in groups 3 and 7. A novel oat miR156 (AsmiR156) family with 21 precursors divided into 7 groups was characterized. A total of 16 AsSPLs were found to be targeted by AsmiR156. Intriguingly, AsSPL3s showed high transcript abundance during early inflorescence (GS-54), as compared to the lower abundance of AsmiR156, indicating their role in reproductive development. Unravelling the SPL/miR156 regulatory hub and alterations in expression patterns of AsSPLs could provide an essential toolbox for genetic improvement in the cultivated oat.
Traditional spring-summer sown oat is a typical long-day crop that cannot head under short-day conditions. The creation of photoperiod-insensitive oats overcomes this limitation. MADS-box genes are a class of transcription factors involved in plant flowering signal transduction regulation. Previous transcriptome studies have shown that MADS-box genes may be related to the oat photoperiod. Putative MADS-box genes were identified in the whole genome of oat. Bioinformatics methods were used to analyze their classification, conserved motifs, gene structure, evolution, chromosome localization, collinearity and In total, sixteen
Neurodegenerative disorders pose a substantial risk to human health, and oxidative stress, cholinergic dysfunction, and inflammation are the major contributors. The purpose of this study was to explore the neuroprotective effects of oat protein hydrolysate (OPH) and identify peptides with neuroprotective potential. This study is the first to isolate and identify OPH peptides with neuroprotective potential, including DFVADHPFLF (DF-10), HGQNFPIL (HL-8), and RDFPITWPW (RW-9), by screening via peptidomes and molecular-docking simulations. These peptides showed positive effects on the activity of antioxidant enzymes and thus reduced oxidative stress through regulation of Nrf2-keap1/HO-1 gene expression in vitro and in vivo. The peptides also significantly ameliorated scopolamine-induced cognitive impairment in the zebrafish model. This improvement was correlated with mitigation of MDA levels, AChE activity, and levels of inflammatory cytokines in the brains of zebrafish. Furthermore, these peptides significantly upregulated the mRNA expression of Bdnf, Nrf2, and Erg1 in the brains of zebrafish with neurodegenerative disorders. Collectively, oat peptides have potential for use as active components in nutraceutical applications for the prevention of neurodegenerative diseases.
The prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is progressively rising each year, emphasizing the significance of implementing rational dietary interventions for disease prevention. Oats, being a staple agricultural product, are abundant in protein content. This study aimed to investigate the protective effects and underlying mechanisms of oat peptides (OPs) in a mouse model of acute colitis induced by dextran sulfate sodium salt (DSS) and a Caco-2 cell model. The findings demonstrated that intervention with OPs effectively mitigated the symptoms associated with DSS-induced colitis. The physicochemical characterization analysis demonstrated that the molecular weight of the OPs was predominantly below 5 kDa, with a predominant composition of 266 peptides. This study provides further evidence of the regulatory impact of OPs on the Keap1-Nrf2 signaling axis and elucidates the potential role of WGVGVRAERDA as the primary bioactive peptide responsible for the functional effects of OPs. Ultimately, the results of this investigation demonstrate that OPs effectively mitigate DSS-induced colitis by preserving the integrity of the intestinal barrier and modulating the Keap1-Nrf2 axis. Consequently, these findings establish a theoretical foundation for the utilization of OPs as dietary supplements to prevent the onset of IBD.
Homogentisate phytyltransferase (HPT) is the critical enzyme for the biosynthesis of tocopherols (vitamin E), which are the major lipid-soluble antioxidants and help plants adapt to various stress conditions. HPT is generally strictly conserved in various plant genomes; however, a divergent lineage HPT2 was identified recently in some Triticeae species. The molecular function and transcriptional profiles of HPT2 remain to be characterized. In this study, we performed comprehensive transcriptome data mining of HPT1 and HPT2 in different tissues and stages of barley (Hordeum vulgare), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and oat (Avena sativa), followed by qRT-PCR experiments on HPT1 and HPT2 in different tissues of barley and wheat. We found that the common HPT1 genes (HvHPT1, TaHPT1s, and AsHPT1s) displayed a conserved transcriptional pattern in the three target species and were universally transcribed in various tissues, with a notable preference in leaf. In contrast, HPT2 genes (HvHPT2, TaHPT2, and AsHPT2) were specifically transcribed in spike (developmentally up-regulated) and shoot apex tissues, displaying a divergent tissue-specific pattern. Cis-regulatory elements prediction in the promoter region identified common factors related to light-, plant hormone-, low temperature-, drought- and defense- responses in both HPT1s and HPT2s. We observed the transcriptional up-regulation of HvHPT1 and HvHPT2 under various stress conditions, supporting their conserved function in environmental adaption. We detected a clear, relaxed selection pressure in the HPT2 lineage, consistent with the predicted evolution pattern following gene duplication. Protein structural modelling and substrate docking analyses identified putative catalytic amino acid residues for HvHPT1 and HvHPT2, which are strictly conserved and consistent with their function in vitamin E biosynthesis. We confirmed the presence of two lineages of HPT in Triticeae and Aveninae, including hexaploid oat, and characterized their transcriptional profiles based on transcriptome and qRT-PCR data. HPT1s were ubiquitously transcribed in various tissues, whilst HPT2s were highly expressed in specific stages and tissue. The active transcription of HPT2s, together with its conserved cis-elements and protein structural features, support HPT2s' role in tocopherol production in Triticeae. This study is the first protein structural analysis on the membrane-bound plant HPTs and provides valuable insights into its catalytic mechanism.
GRAS transcription factors play a variety of functions in plant growth and development and are named after the first three transcription factors GAI (GIBBERRELLICACIDINSENSITIVE), RGA (REPRESSOROFGAI), and SCR (SCARECROW) found in this family. Oat ( In order to understand the information and expression pattern of oat GRAS family members, we identified the GRAS members and analyzed their phylogenetic relationship, gene structure, and expression pattern in oat by bioinformatics technology. The results showed that the oat GRAS family consists of 30 members, and most of the AsGRAS proteins were neutral or acidic proteins. The phylogenetic tree divided the oat GRAS members into four subfamilies, and each subfamily has different conservative domains and functions. Chromosome location analysis suggested that 30
Extensive research has been conducted for decades to elucidate the molecular and regulatory mechanisms for phytochrome-mediated light signaling in plants. As a result, tens of downstream signaling components that physically interact with phytochromes are identified, among which negative transcription factors for photomorphogenesis, PHYTOCHROME-INTERACTING FACTORs (PIFs), are well known to be regulated by phytochromes. In addition, phytochromes are also shown to inactivate an important E3 ligase complex consisting of CONSTITUTIVELY PHOTOMORPHOGENIC 1 (COP1) and SUPPRESSORs OF
The WRKY family is widely involved in the regulation of plant growth and stress response and is one of the largest gene families related to plant environmental adaptation. However, no systematic studies on the WRKY family in oat (
Oat is a food and forage crop species widely cultivated worldwide, and it is also an important forage grass in plateau regions of China, where there is a high level of ultraviolet radiation and sunlight. Screening suitable reference genes for oat under UV-B and high-light stresses is a prerequisite for ensuring the accuracy of real-time quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR) data used in plant adaptation research. In this study, eight candidate reference genes (sulfite oxidase,
It is known that estrogen stimulates growth and inhibits apoptosis through estrogen receptor(ER)-mediated mechanisms in many cancer cell types. Interestingly, there is strong evidence that estrogens can also induce apoptosis, activating different ER isoforms in cancer cells. It has been observed that E2/ERα complex activates multiple pathways involved in both cell cycle progression and apoptotic cascade prevention, while E2/ERβ complex in many cases directs the cells to apoptosis. However, the exact mechanism of estrogen-induced tumor regression is not completely known. Nevertheless, ERs expression levels of specific splice variants and their cellular localization differentially affect outcome of estrogen-dependent tumors. The goal of this review is to provide a general overview of current knowledge on ERs-mediated apoptosis that occurs in main hormone dependent-cancers. Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying the induction of ER-mediated cell death will be useful for the development of specific ligands capable of triggering apoptosis to counteract estrogen-dependent tumor growth.
A Populus euphratica NAC gene regulates (1,3; 1,4)-β-D-glucan content in oat developing seed and improves the spikelet number and grain number per spike in transgenic oat under salinity conditions Salinity is the major factor affecting the production and quality of oat, and improving oat salt tolerance to increase yield and quality is vital. (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucan in Gramineae is the key component in response to various environmental signals, and it is the most important functional ingredient in oat grain. The NAC transcription factors are important candidate genes used in genetic engineering to improve plant abiotic stress tolerance. In this study, we introduced Populus euphratica PeNAC1, controlled by its own promoter, into hexaploid cultivated oat and produced six transgenic lines. Compared to the non-transgenic control, the expression of PeNAC1 significantly improved the seed germination rate, seedling survival rate, and leaf chlorophyll content in the transgenic plants under salt stress. These physiological changes increased the spikelet number and grain number per spike in the transgenic oat under salinity conditions and reduced the yield loss per plant. The results indicated that the heterologous expression of PeNAC1 plays an effective role in improving the salt tolerance in transgenic oat. In addition, overexpressing PeNAC1 significantly increased the (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucan content as well as the expression level of the (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucan biosynthetic genes AsCslF3, AsCslF6, and AsCslF9 in the transgenic lines under salt stress, which suggested that PeNAC1 regulates the synthesis of (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucan. Our research should assist in the discovery of the diverse action modes of NAC proteins, while PeNAC1 will be useful for improving the salt tolerance and quality of oat through molecular breeding.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative disorder that can result in the loss of articular cartilage. No effective treatment against OA is currently available. Thus, interest in natural health products to relieve OA symptoms is increasing. However, their qualities such as efficacy, toxicity, and mechanism are poorly understood. In this study, we determined the efficacy of avenanthramide (Avn)-C extracted from oats as a promising candidate to prevent OA progression and its mechanism of action to prevent the expression of matrix-metalloproteinases (MMPs) in OA pathogenesis. Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), a proinflammatory cytokine as a main causing factor of cartilage destruction, was used to induce OAlike condition of chondrocytes in vitro. Avn-C restrained IL-1β- mediated expression and activity of MMPs, such as MMP-3, -12, and -13 in mouse articular chondrocytes. Moreover, Avn-C alleviated cartilage destruction in experimental OA mouse model induced by destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM) surgery. However, Avn-C did not affect the expression of inflammatory mediators (Ptgs2 and Nos) or anabolic factors (Col2a1, Aggrecan, and Sox9), although expression levels of these genes were upregulated or downregulated by IL-1β, respectively. The inhibition of MMP expression by Avn-C in articular chondrocytes was mediated by p38 kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling, but not by ERK or NF-κB. Interestingly, Avn-C added with SB203580 and SP600125 as specific inhibitors of p38 kinase and JNK, respectively, enhanced its inhibitory effect on the expression of MMPs in IL-1β treated chondrocytes. Taken together, these results suggest that Avn-C is an effective candidate to prevent OA progression and a natural health product to relieve OA pathogenesis. [BMB Reports 2021; 54(10): 528-533].
The shuttling of transcription factors and transcriptional regulators into and out of the nucleus is central to the regulation of many biological processes. Here we describe a new method for studying the rates of nuclear entry and exit of transcriptional regulators. A photo-responsive LOV (light-oxygen-voltage) domain from Avena sativa is used to sequester fluorescently labelled transcriptional regulators YAP1 and TAZ (also known as WWTR1) on the surface of mitochondria and to reversibly release them upon blue light illumination. After dissociation, fluorescent signals from the mitochondria, cytoplasm and nucleus are extracted by a bespoke app and used to generate rates of nuclear entry and exit. Using this method, we demonstrate that phosphorylation of YAP1 on canonical sites enhances its rate of nuclear export. Moreover, we provide evidence that, despite high intercellular variability, YAP1 import and export rates correlate within the same cell. By simultaneously releasing YAP1 and TAZ from sequestration, we show that their rates of entry and exit are correlated. Furthermore, combining the optogenetic release of YAP1 with lattice light-sheet microscopy reveals high heterogeneity of YAP1 dynamics within different cytoplasmic regions, demonstrating the utility and versatility of our tool to study protein dynamics. This article has an associated First Person interview with Anna M. Dowbaj, joint first author of the paper.
Cereal crops, such as oats and barley, possess a number of valuable properties that meet the requirements for functional diet components. This review summarized the available information about bioactive compounds of oat and barley grain. The results of studying the structure and physicochemical properties of the cell wall polysaccharides of barley and oat are presented. The main components of the flavonoids formation pathway are shown and data, concerning anthocyanins biosynthesis in various barley tissues, are discussed. Moreover, we analyzed the available information about structural and regulatory genes of anthocyanin biosynthesis in
Male fertility has been shown to be dependent on cholesterol homeostasis. This lipid is essential for testosterone synthesis and spermatogenesis, but its levels must be maintained in an optimal range for proper testicular function. In particular, sperm cells' development is very sensitive to high cholesterol levels, noticeably during acrosomal formation. The aim of this work was to study whether the molecular pathway that regulates intracellular cholesterol, the sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP) pathway, is affected in the testicles of animals under a fat diet. To investigate this, we took advantage of the non-obese hypercholesterolemia (HC) model in New Zealand rabbits that displays poor sperm and seminal quality. The testicular expression of SREBP isoform 2 (SREBP2) and its target molecules 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR) and low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) were studied under acute (6 months) and chronic (more than 12 months) fat intake by RT-PCR, western blot and immunofluorescence. Our findings showed that fat consumption promoted down-regulation of the SREBP2 pathway in the testicle at 6 months, but upregulation after a chronic period. This was consistent with load of testicular cholesterol, assessed by filipin staining. In conclusion, the intracellular pathway that regulates cholesterol levels in the testicle is sensitive to dietary fats, and behaves differently depending on the duration of consumption: it has a short-term protective effect, but became deregulated in the long term, ultimately leading to a detrimental situation. These results will contribute to the understanding of the basic mechanisms of the effect of fat consumption in humans with idiopathic infertility.
Accumulating evidence has demonstrated that cellular antioxidant systems play essential roles in retarding oxidative stress-related diseases, such as Parkinson's disease. Because nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a chief regulator of cellular antioxidant systems, small molecules with Nrf2-activating ability may be promising neuroprotective agents. Avenanthramide-2c (Aven-2c), avenanthramide-2f (Aven-2f) and avenanthramide-2p (Aven-2p) are the most abundant avenanthramides in oats, and they have been documented to possess multiple pharmacological benefits. In this work, we synthesized these three compounds and evaluated their cytoprotective effect against oxidative stress-induced PC12 cell injuries. Aven-2c displayed the best protective potency among them. Aven-2c conferred protection on PC12 cells by scavenging free radicals and activating the Nrf2-ARE signaling pathway. Pretreatment of PC12 cells with Aven-2c efficiently enhanced Nrf2 nuclear accumulation and evoked the expression of a set of cytoprotective molecules. The mechanistic study also supports that Nrf2 activation is the molecular basis for the cellular action of Aven-2c. Collectively, this study demonstrates that Aven-2c is a potent Nrf2 agonist, shedding light on the potential usage of Aven-2c in the treatment of neuroprotective diseases.
Estrogen signaling plays important roles in testicular functions and tumorigenesis. Fifteen years ago, it was discovered that a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family, GPR30, which binds also with high affinity to estradiol and is responsible, in part, for the rapid non-genomic actions of estrogens. GPR30, renamed as GPER, was detected in several tissues including germ cells (spermatogonia, spermatocytes, spermatids) and somatic cells (Sertoli and Leydig cells). In our previous review published in 2014, we summarized studies that evidenced a role of GPER signaling in mediating estrogen action during spermatogenesis and testis development. In addition, we evidenced that GPER seems to be involved in modulating estrogen-dependent testicular cancer cell growth; however, the effects on cell survival and proliferation depend on specific cell type. In this review, we update the knowledge obtained in the last years on GPER roles in regulating physiological functions of testicular cells and its involvement in neoplastic transformation of both germ and somatic cells. In particular, we will focus our attention on crosstalk among GPER signaling, classical estrogen receptors and other nuclear receptors involved in testis physiology regulation.
Cereal grains, including wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), are major sources of food and feed, with wheat being dominant in temperate zones. These end uses exploit the storage reserves in the starchy endosperm of the grain, with starch being the major storage component in most cereal species. However, oats (Avena sativa L.) differs in that the starchy endosperm stores significant amounts of oil. Understanding the control of carbon allocation between groups of storage compounds, such as starch and oil, is therefore important for understanding the composition and hence end use quality of cereals. WRINKLED1 is a transcription factor known to induce triacylglycerol (TAG; oil) accumulation in several plant storage tissues. An oat endosperm homolog of WRI1 (AsWRI1) expressed from the endosperm-specific HMW1Dx5 promoter resulted in drastic changes in carbon allocation in wheat grains, with reduced seed weight and a wrinkled seed phenotype. The starch content of mature grain endosperms of AsWRI1-wheat was reduced compared to controls (from 62 to 22% by dry weight (dw)), TAG was increased by up to nine-fold (from 0.7 to 6.4% oil by dw) and sucrose from 1.5 to 10% by dw. Expression of AsWRI1 in wheat grains also resulted in multiple layers of elongated peripheral aleurone cells. RNA-sequencing, lipid analyses, and pulse-chase experiments using Our data show that expression of oat endosperm WRI1 in the wheat endosperm results in changes in metabolism which could underpin the application of biotechnology to manipulate grain composition. In particular, the striking effect on starch synthesis in the wheat endosperm indicates that an important indirect role of WRI1 is to divert carbon allocation away from starch biosynthesis in plant storage tissues that accumulate oil.
Embryo-remaining oat rice (EROR), as a newly developed oat product, is popular in China for its good taste, but little is known about its healthy functions. In this study, the effects of EROR on lipid metabolism regulation were investigated in in vitro and in vivo models. The results showed that the oat ethanol extracts significantly alleviated lipid accumulation, total cholesterol and triglyceride levels in HepG2 cells. EROR supplementation dramatically improved the lipid profile in the serum and liver and downregulated the expression levels of HMGCR, SREBP-1C and FAS, which are related to lipid metabolic disorder in high-fat diet (HFD) fed rats. A HFD decreases the production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) in the cecum, which are related to intestinal microbiota dysbiosis. The intake of EROR significantly increased the total SCFAs, acetate and propionate and promoted the abundance of SCFA-producing bacteria. Furthermore, the intake of EROR led to abundant increases in Bifidobacterium and Akkermansia and decreases of Rombutsia, Fusicatenibacter, Holdemanella and Turicibacter, which were negatively and positively correlated with the lipid metabolism-related indices. These results provide evidence that EROR is a good functional food candidate to ameliorate lipid metabolic disorder and hyperlipidemia.
Oat (Avena sativa) and castor (Ricinus communis) accumulate a large amount of lipids in their endosperms, however the molecular mechanism remains unknown. In this study, differences in oil regulators between oat and wheat (Triticum aestivum) as well as common features between oat and castor were tested by analyzing their transcriptomes with further q-PCR analysis. Results indicated that WRINKLED1 (WRI1) homologs and their target genes highly expressed in the endosperms of oat and castor, but not in the starchy endosperms of wheat. Expression pattern of WRI1s was in agreement with that of oil accumulation. Three AsWRI1s (AsWRI1a, AsWRI1b and AsWRI1c) and one RcWRI1 were identified in the endosperms of oat and castor, respectively. AsWRI1c lacks VYL motif, which is different from the other three WRI1s. Expressions of these four WRI1s all complemented the phenotypes of Arabidopsis wri1-1 mutant. Overexpression of these WRI1s in Arabidopsis and tobacco BY2 cells increased oil contents of seeds and total fatty acids of the cells, respectively. Moreover, this overexpression also resulted in up-regulations of WRI1 target genes, such as PKp-β1. Taken together, our results suggest that high and functional expression of WRI1 play a key role in the oil-rich endosperms and the VYL motif is dispensable for WRI1 function.
Oat is the nutritious crop containing various compounds with antioxidant properties, such as polyphenols. In this study, we investigated the effect of germination and ultrafiltration process on polyphenol and avenanthramide contents in oat as well as their cytoprotective effect. Germination of oat for 48 hr significantly increased avenanthramide (5.5 to 11.3 mg/g) and polyphenol (115 to 155 mg GAE/g) contents. The compounds were more concentrated after ultrafiltration using 10 kDa membranes (polyphenol, 206 GAE/g; avenanthramide, 18 mg/g). In addition, oat extracts significantly reduced the cellular ROS level against tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BHP) stimulation in HepG2 cells. In the mechanistic study, oat extracts induced Nrf2 translocation to the nucleus by inhibition of Keap1 expression, resulting into upregulation of γ-GCS and NQO1. In conclusion, oat germination and ultrafiltration processes increased the polyphenol content, including that of avenanthramide. These extracts protected cells from t-BHP by radical scavenging activities and induced Nrf2 pathway activation. PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS: This study presents the method for avenanthramide-concentrated extract which is unique bioactive compounds in oat. In addition, antioxidant activity and their mechanisms of the avenanthramide-enriched extracts were evaluated. The polyphenol compounds including avenanthramide were found to increase after germination and ultrafiltration, thereby improving the radical scavenging ability. These results can be utilized as data for the development of health-promoting materials using oats.
Uniquely, oat, among cereals, accumulates an appreciable amount of oil in the endosperm together with starch. Oat is also recognized for its soluble fibers in the form of β-glucans. Despite high and increasing interest in oat yield and quality, the genetic and molecular understanding of oat grain development is still very limited. Transcription factors (TFs) are important regulatory components for plant development, product quality and yield. This study aimed to develop a workflow to determine seed tissue specificity of transcripts encoding transcription factors to reveal differential expression of potential importance for storage compound deposition and quality characters in oat. We created a workflow through the de novo assembly of sequenced seed endosperm and embryo, and publicly available oat seed RNAseq dataset, later followed by TF identification. RNAseq data were assembled into 33,878 transcripts with approximately 90% completeness. A total of 3875 putative TF encoding transcripts were identified from the oat hybrid assemblies. Members of the B3, bHLH, bZIP, C3H, ERF, NAC, MYB and WRKY families were the most abundant TF transcripts. A total of 514 transcripts which were differentially expressed between embryo and endosperm were identified with a threshold of 16-fold expression difference. Among those, 36 TF transcript homologs, belonging to 7 TF families, could be identified through similarity search in wheat embryo and endosperm EST libraries of NCBI Unigene database, and almost all the closest homologs were specifically expressed in seed when explored in WheatExp database. We verified our findings by cloning, sequencing and finally confirming differential expression of two TF encoding transcripts in oat seed embryo and endosperm. The developed workflow for identifying tissue-specific transcription factors allows further functional characterization of specific genes to increase our understanding of grain filling and quality.
Natural polyphenols are promising anti-aging compounds not only for their antioxidant activity, but also their ability to activate specific cellular pathways mediating the aging process. Avenanthramide C (Avn C), found exclusively in oats, is a natural antioxidant associated with free radical scavenging; however, it is how this compound elicits other protective effects. We investigated the intracellular antioxidant activity of Avn C and other cytoprotective potential in normal human skin fibroblasts exposed to extracellular stress. Avn C reduced H
Weeds are serious problem in crop production and wild oat is a grass weed of economic and agronomic significance. We need to extend our basic knowledge of weeds especially in molecular genetics and gene expression. For study of gene expression by semi-quantitative and quantitative PCR, it is recommended that normalization of reference genes be carried out in order to select the most stable reference gene for a precise gene expression study. The purpose of this research was evaluation of four reference genes in response to treated and untreated (control) by herbicide in two tissues (stem and leaf) of non-target site resistance wild oat (A. ludoviciana). Four candidate reference genes including Actin, Ef1α (elongation factor 1 alpha), GAPDH (glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase) and TBP (TATA-box-binding protein) were used to determine stable reference gene exposed to the herbicide using the statistical methods of NormFinder, BestKeeper and delta-Ct. NormFinder indicated that TBP and Actin genes are the best combination of two genes for normalizing calculations (with a combined gene stability value of 0.012) for qPCR analysis under herbicide stress in different tissues of non-target site resistance wild oat. Based on the statistical results, the Ef1α gene was identified as the unstable reference gene. Totally, according to results of this study, TBP gene is the most stable reference gene and therefore, this gene can be used as a reference gene for future studies of quantitative PCR analysis of herbicide stress-responsive gene expression in wild oat and potentially in other grass weed species.
Plant growth and yield is adversely affected by soil salinity. Salt tolerant plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) strain IG 3 was isolated from rhizosphere of wheat plants. The isolate IG 3 was able to grow in presence of NaCl ranging from 0 to 20% in Luria Bertani medium. The present study was planned to evaluate the role of inoculation of PGPR strain IG 3 and its efficacy in augmenting salt tolerance in oat (Avena sativa) under NaCl stress (100mM). The physiological parameter such as shoot length, root length, shoot dry weight, root dry weight and relative water content (RWC) were remarkably higher in IG 3 inoculated plants in comparison to un-inoculated plants under NaCl stress. Similarly, the biochemical parameters such as proline content, electrolyte leakage and malondialdehyde (MDA) content and activities of antioxidant enzymes were analyzed and found to be notably lesser in IG 3 inoculated oat plants in contrast to un-inoculated plants under salt stress. Inoculation of IG 3 strain to oat seedlings under salt stress positively modulated the expression profile of rbcL and WRKY1 genes. Root colonization of root surface and interior was demonstrated using scanning electron microscopy and tetrazolium staining, respectively. Due these outcomes, it could be implicated that inoculation of PGPR strain IG 3 enhanced plant growth under salt stress condition. This study demonstrates that PGPR play an imperative function in stimulating salt tolerance in plants and can be used as biofertilizer to enhance growth of crops in saline areas.
Dietary fiber consumption is associated with reduced risk for the development of noncommunicable diseases. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of cereal dietary fiber on the levels of proteins involved in lipolysis and thermogenesis in white adipose tissue (WAT) and brown adipose tissue (BAT) of C57 BL/6 J mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD). Male C57BL/6 J mice were fed normal chow diet (Chow), HFD, HFD plus oat fiber (H-oat), or HFD plus wheat bran fiber (H-wheat) for 24 wk. Body weight and food intake were recorded weekly. Serum adiponectin was assayed by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit. Western blotting was used to assess the protein expressions of adipose triacylglycerol lipase (ATGL), cAMP protein kinase catalytic subunit (cAMP), protein kinase A (PKA), perilipin A, hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL), uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1), fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF-21), β3-adrenergic receptor (β3AR), and proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 α (PGC-1 α) in the WAT and BAT. At the end of the feeding period, body and adipose tissues weight in both H-oat and H-wheat groups were lower than in the HFD group. Mice in the H-oat and H-wheat groups showed an increasing trend in serum adiponectin level. Compared with the HFD group, cereal dietary fiber increased protein expressions involved in the lipolysis and browning process. Compared with the H-wheat group, H-oat was more effective in protein expressions of PKA, PGC-1 α, and UCP1 of the WAT samples. Compared with the H-oat group, H-wheat was more effective in protein expressions of PKA, ATGL, UCP1, β3AR, and FGF-21 of the BAT samples. Taken together, our results suggested that cereal dietary fiber enhanced adipocyte lipolysis by the cAMP-PKA-HSL pathway and promoted WAT browning by activation of UCP1, and consequently reduced visceral fat mass in response to HFD feeding.
Oats contain unique bioactive compounds known as avenanthramides (AVAs) with antioxidant properties. AVAs might enhance the endogenous antioxidant cellular response by activation of the transcription factor Nrf2. Accumulation of reactive oxygen species plays a critical role in many chronic and degenerative diseases, including osteoporosis. In this disease, there is an imbalance between bone formation by osteoblasts and bone resorption by osteoclasts, which is accompanied by increased osteoblast/osteocyte apoptosis and decreased osteoclast apoptosis. We investigated the ability of the synthethic AVAs 2c, 2f and 2p, to 1-regulate gene expression in bone cells, 2-affect the viability of osteoblasts, osteocytes and osteoclasts, and the generation of osteoclasts from their precursors, and 3-examine the potential involvement of the transcription factor Nrf2 in these actions. All doses of AVA 2c and 1 and 5 µM dose of 2p up-regulated collagen 1A expression. Lower doses of AVAs up-regulated OPG (osteoprotegerin) in OB-6 osteoblastic cells, whereas 100 μM dose of 2f and all concentrations of 2c down-regulated RANKL gene expression in MLO-Y4 osteocytic cells. AVAs did not affect apoptosis of OB-6 osteoblastic cells or MLO-Y4 osteocytic cells; however, they prevented apoptosis induced by the DNA topoisomerase inhibitor etoposide, the glucocorticoid dexamethasone, and hydrogen peroxide. AVAs prevented apoptosis of both wild type (WT) and Nrf2 Knockout (KO) osteoblasts, demonstrating that AVAs-induced survival does not require Nrf2 expression. Further, KO osteoclast precursors produced more mature osteoclasts than WT; and KO cultures exhibited less apoptotic osteoclasts than WT cultures. Although AVAs did not affect WT osteoclasts, AVA 2p reversed the low apoptosis of KO osteoclasts. These in vitro results demonstrate that AVAs regulate, in part, the function of osteoblasts and osteocytes and prevent osteoblast/osteocyte apoptosis and increase osteoclast apoptosis; further, these regulatory actions are independent of Nrf2.
It has been suggested that plant phytochromes are autophosphorylating serine/threonine kinases. However, the biochemical properties and functional roles of putative phytochrome kinase activity in plant light signalling are largely unknown. Here, we describe the biochemical and functional characterization of Avena sativa phytochrome A (AsphyA) as a potential protein kinase. We provide evidence that phytochrome-interacting factors (PIFs) are phosphorylated by phytochromes in vitro. Domain mapping of AsphyA shows that the photosensory core region consisting of PAS-GAF-PHY domains in the N-terminal is required for the observed kinase activity. Moreover, we demonstrate that transgenic plants expressing mutant versions of AsphyA, which display reduced activity in in vitro kinase assays, show hyposensitive responses to far-red light. Further analysis reveals that far-red light-induced phosphorylation and degradation of PIF3 are significantly reduced in these transgenic plants. Collectively, these results suggest a positive relationship between phytochrome kinase activity and photoresponses in plants.
Optogenetics provides new ways to activate gene transcription; however, no attempts have been made as yet to modulate mammalian transcription factors. We report the light-mediated regulation of the repressor element 1 (RE1)-silencing transcription factor (REST), a master regulator of neural genes. To tune REST activity, we selected two protein domains that impair REST-DNA binding or recruitment of the cofactor mSin3a. Computational modeling guided the fusion of the inhibitory domains to the light-sensitive Avena sativa light-oxygen-voltage-sensing (LOV) 2-phototrophin 1 (AsLOV2). By expressing AsLOV2 chimeras in Neuro2a cells, we achieved light-dependent modulation of REST target genes that was associated with an improved neural differentiation. In primary neurons, light-mediated REST inhibition increased Na(+)-channel 1.2 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor transcription and boosted Na(+) currents and neuronal firing. This optogenetic approach allows the coordinated expression of a cluster of genes impinging on neuronal activity, providing a tool for studying neuronal physiology and correcting gene expression changes taking place in brain diseases.
Numerous studies have shown that avenanthramides (AVAs), unique compounds found in oats, are strong antioxidants, though the mechanism of action remains unclear. Here, we investigated whether AVAs affect heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression through the activation of Nrf2 translocation. We investigated the effects AVA 2c, 2f, and 2p on HK-2 cells, and found that AVAs could significantly increase HO-1 expression in both a dose- and time-dependent manner. Furthermore, we found that AVA-induced HO-1 expression is mediated by Nrf2 translocation. The addition of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), but not specific inhibitors of p38 (SB202190), PI3K (LY294002), and MEK1 (PD098059) attenuated AVA-induced HO-1 expression, demonstrating an important role for reactive oxygen species, but not PI3K or MAPK activation, in activating the HO-1 pathway. Moreover, hydrogenation of the double bond of the functional α,β-unsaturated carbonyl group of AVAs eliminated their effects on HO-1 expression, suggesting that this group is crucial for the antioxidant activity of AVAs. Our results suggest a novel mechanism whereby AVAs exert an antioxidant function on human health. Further investigation of these markers in human is warranted to explore the beneficial health effects of whole grain oat intake.
The pathogenesis of the adrenocortical cancer (ACC) involves integration of molecular signals and the interplay of different downstream pathways (i.e. IGFII/IGF1R, β-catenin, Wnt, ESR1). This tumor is characterized by limited therapeutic options and unsuccessful treatments. A useful strategy to develop an effective therapy for ACC is to identify a common downstream target of these multiple pathways. A good candidate could be the transcription factor estrogen-related receptor alpha (ERRα) because of its ability to regulate energy metabolism, mitochondrial biogenesis and signalings related to cancer progression. In this study we tested the effect of ERRα inverse agonist, XCT790, on the proliferation of H295R adrenocortical cancer cell line. Results from in vitro and in vivo experiments showed that XCT790 reduced H295R cell growth. The inhibitory effect was associated with impaired cell cycle progression which was not followed by any apoptotic event. Instead, incomplete autophagy and cell death by a necrotic processes, as a consequence of the cell energy failure, induced by pharmacological reduction of ERRα was evidenced. Our results indicate that therapeutic strategies targeting key factors such as ERRα that control the activity and signaling of bioenergetics processes in high-energy demanding tumors could represent an innovative/alternative therapy for the treatment of ACC.
Carbon accumulation and remobilization are essential mechanisms in plants to ensure energy transfer between plant tissues with different functions or metabolic needs and to support new generations. Knowledge about the regulation of carbon allocation into oil (triacylglycerol) in plant storage tissue can be of great economic and environmental importance for developing new high-yielding oil crops. Here, the effect on global gene expression as well as on physiological changes in leaves transiently expressing five homologs of the transcription factor WRINKLED1 (WRI1) originating from diverse species and tissues; Arabidopsis thaliana and potato (Solanum tuberosum) seed embryo, poplar (Populus trichocarpa) stem cambium, oat (Avena sativa) grain endosperm, and nutsedge (Cyperus esculentus) tuber parenchyma, were studied by agroinfiltration in Nicotiana benthamiana. All WRI1 homologs induced oil accumulation when expressed in leaf tissue. Transcriptome sequencing revealed that all homologs induced the same general patterns with a drastic shift in gene expression profiles of leaves from that of a typical source tissue to a source-limited sink-like tissue: Transcripts encoding enzymes for plastid uptake and metabolism of phosphoenolpyruvate, fatty acid and oil biosynthesis were up-regulated, as were also transcripts encoding starch degradation. Transcripts encoding enzymes in photosynthesis and starch synthesis were instead down-regulated. Moreover, transcripts representing fatty acid degradation were up-regulated indicating that fatty acids might be degraded to feed the increased need to channel carbons into fatty acid synthesis creating a futile cycle. RT-qPCR analysis of leaves expressing Arabidopsis WRI1 showed the temporal trends of transcripts selected as 'markers' for key metabolic pathways one to five days after agroinfiltration. Chlorophyll fluorescence measurements of leaves expressing Arabidopsis WRI1 showed a significant decrease in photosynthesis, even though effect on starch content could not be observed. This data gives for the first time a general view on the transcriptional transitions in leaf tissue upon induction of oil synthesis by WRI1. This yields important information about what effects WRI1 may exert on global gene expression during seed and embryo development. The results suggest why high oil content in leaf tissue cannot be achieved by solely transcriptional activation by WRI1, which can be essential knowledge in the development of new high-yielding oil crops.
We have previously demonstrated that estrogen receptor (ER) alpha (ESR1) increases proliferation of adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) through both an estrogen-dependent and -independent (induced by IGF-II/IGF1R pathways) manner. Then, the use of tamoxifen, a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM), appears effective in reducing ACC growth in vitro and in vivo. However, tamoxifen not only exerts antiestrogenic activity, but also acts as full agonist on the G protein-coupled estrogen receptor (GPER). Aim of this study was to investigate the effect of a non-steroidal GPER agonist G-1 in modulating ACC cell growth. We found that G-1 is able to exert a growth inhibitory effect on H295R cells both in vitro and, as xenograft model, in vivo. Treatment of H295R cells with G-1 induced cell cycle arrest, DNA damage and cell death by the activation of the intrinsic apoptotic mechanism. These events required sustained extracellular regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 activation. Silencing of GPER by a specific shRNA partially reversed G-1-mediated cell growth inhibition without affecting ERK activation. These data suggest the existence of G-1 activated but GPER-independent effects that remain to be clarified. In conclusion, this study provides a rational to further study G-1 mechanism of action in order to include this drug as a treatment option to the limited therapy of ACC.
Light-activatable proteins allow precise spatial and temporal control of biological processes in living cells and animals. Several approaches have been developed for controlling protein localization with light, including the conditional inhibition of a nuclear localization signal (NLS) with the Light Oxygen Voltage (AsLOV2) domain of phototropin 1 from Avena sativa. In the dark, the switch adopts a closed conformation that sterically blocks the NLS motif. Upon activation with blue light the C-terminus of the protein unfolds, freeing the NLS to direct the protein to the nucleus. A previous study showed that this approach can be used to control the localization and activity of proteins in mammalian tissue culture cells. Here, we extend this result by characterizing the binding properties of a LOV/NLS switch and demonstrating that it can be used to control gene transcription in yeast. Additionally, we show that the switch, referred to as LANS (light-activated nuclear shuttle), functions in the C. elegans embryo and allows for control of nuclear localization in individual cells. By inserting LANS into the C. elegans lin-1 locus using Cas9-triggered homologous recombination, we demonstrated control of cell fate via light-dependent manipulation of a native transcription factor. We conclude that LANS can be a valuable experimental method for spatial and temporal control of nuclear localization in vivo.
We took a rather unique approach to investigate the conservation of gene expression of prolamin storage protein genes across two different subfamilies of the Poaceae. We took advantage of oat plants carrying single maize chromosomes in different cultivars, called oat-maize addition (OMA) lines, which permitted us to determine whether regulation of gene expression was conserved between the two species. We found that γ-zeins are expressed in OMA7.06, which carries maize chromosome 7 even in the absence of the trans-acting maize prolamin-box-binding factor (PBF), which regulates their expression. This is likely because oat PBF can substitute for the function of maize PBF as shown in our transient expression data, using a γ-zein promoter fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP). Despite this conservation, the younger, recently amplified prolamin genes in maize, absent in oat, are not expressed in the corresponding OMAs. However, maize can express the oldest prolamin gene, the wheat high-molecular weight glutenin Dx5 gene, even when maize Pbf is knocked down (through PbfRNAi), and/or another maize transcription factor, Opaque-2 (O2) is knocked out (in maize o2 mutant). Therefore, older genes are conserved in their regulation, whereas younger ones diverged during evolution and eventually acquired a new repertoire of suitable transcriptional activators.
Activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) has been shown to have an important role in skin barrier function by regulating differentiation and lipid synthesis in keratinocytes. Oat (Avena sativa) has long been used as a soothing agent to relieve skin irritations, and the clinical benefits of topical oat formulations have been proven; however, the mechanistic understanding of oat's mode of action remains unknown. We investigated whether an oat lipid extract could activate PPARs and subsequently increase epidermal lipid synthesis and differentiation markers. Primary human epidermal keratinocytes and transformed cell lines were treated with PPAR agonists and oat lipid extracts to investigate the PPAR agonism. PPAR target genes and epidermal differentiation markers were analysed using quantitative real-time PCR and HPTLC analysis. Oat lipid extract demonstrated robust dual agonism for PPARα and PPARβ/δ, and increased direct PPAR target gene induction in primary human keratinocytes. In addition, oat oil treatment increased both receptor expression and, consistent with the literature on PPARs, oat oil treatment resulted in a significant upregulation of differentiation genes (involucrin, SPRRs and transglutaminase 1) and ceramide processing genes (β-glucocerebrosidase, sphingomyelinases 3 and ABCA12). Further, oat oil treatment in keratinocytes significantly increased ceramide levels (70%), suggesting a functional translation of PPAR activation by oat oil in keratinocytes. Taken together, these results demonstrate that oat lipids possess robust dual agonistic activities for PPARα and PPARβ/δ, increase their gene expression and induce differentiation and ceramide synthesis in keratinocytes, which can collectively improve skin barrier function.
Duplication of centrosomes once per cell cycle is essential for bipolar spindle formation and genome maintenance and is controlled in part by cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdks). Our study identifies Sfi1, a conserved component of centrosomes, as the first Cdk substrate required to restrict centrosome duplication to once per cell cycle. We found that reducing Cdk1 phosphorylation by changing Sfi1 phosphorylation sites to nonphosphorylatable residues leads to defects in separation of duplicated spindle pole bodies (SPBs, yeast centrosomes) and to inappropriate SPB reduplication during mitosis. These cells also display defects in bipolar spindle assembly, chromosome segregation, and growth. Our findings lead to a model whereby phosphoregulation of Sfi1 by Cdk1 has the dual function of promoting SPB separation for spindle formation and preventing premature SPB duplication. In addition, we provide evidence that the protein phosphatase Cdc14 has the converse role of activating licensing, likely via dephosphorylation of Sfi1.
Plants are exposed to various environmental stresses, including drought, salinity, low temperature, etc. Dehydration responsive element binding (DREB) genes, the members of AP2/ERF transcription factor family, regulate the biological processes against cold and dehydration stresses. In this study, we analyzed a total of 19 DREB transcription factor genes and proteins from 14 grass species by using bioinformatic approaches, including their physiochemical properties, conserved motif structures, homology models, and phylogenetic relationships. The domain analysis showed that all grass species contained an AP2 domain whereas some residual substitutions and/or insertions were observed in the AP2 domains of some grasses. The physiochemical analysis revealed that many DREB proteins (89.5 %) were of acidic character while the number of amino acids ranged from 213 (Aegilops speltoides subsp. speltoides) to 394 (Triticum aestivum). Based on the subcellular prediction, 16 of 19 DREB proteins were predicted to be localized in the nuclear region. According to the sequence analysis of grass DREBs, the average value of pairwise distance was found to be 0.588, while nucleotide diversity (π) was found to be 0.435. Thus, among all DREB proteins, two most divergent ones (Oryza sativa and Avena sativa) were selected for 3D structure and protein cavity comparison. In addition, 19 DREB proteins were analyzed according to their phylogenetic relationships, and as a consequence, two main groups were observed. In this study, our analyses could be a scientific base to understand DREB genes and proteins to further wet lab studies in plants, particularly in grass species.
Sterols have important functions in membranes and signaling. Plant sterols are synthesized via the isoprenoid pathway by cyclization of 2,3-oxidosqualene to cycloartenol. Plants also convert 2,3-oxidosqualene to other sterol-like cyclization products, including the simple triterpene β-amyrin. The function of β-amyrin per se is unknown, but this molecule can serve as an intermediate in the synthesis of more complex triterpene glycosides associated with plant defense. β-Amyrin is present at low levels in the roots of diploid oat (Avena strigosa). Oat roots also synthesize the β-amyrin-derived triterpene glycoside avenacin A-1, which provides protection against soil-borne diseases. The genes for the early steps in avenacin A-1 synthesis [saponin-deficient 1 and 2 (Sad1 and Sad2)] have been recruited from the sterol pathway by gene duplication and neofunctionalization. Here we show that Sad1 and Sad2 are regulated by an ancient root developmental process that is conserved across diverse species. Sad1 promoter activity is dependent on an L1 box motif, implicating sterol/lipid-binding class IV homeodomain leucine zipper transcription factors as potential regulators. The metabolism of β-amyrin is blocked in sad2 mutants, which therefore accumulate abnormally high levels of this triterpene. The accumulation of elevated levels of β-amyrin in these mutants triggers a "superhairy" root phenotype. Importantly, this effect is manifested very early in the establishment of the root epidermis, causing a greater proportion of epidermal cells to be specified as root hair cells rather than nonhair cells. Together these findings suggest that simple triterpenes may have widespread and as yet largely unrecognized functions in plant growth and development.
To better understand mechanisms underlying the health benefits of oats, the free radical scavenging capacities of oat avenanthramides 2c, 2f, and 2p and their ability to inhibit NF-κB activation were evaluated. The antioxidant capacities of 2c, 2f, and 2p against peroxyl radicals, hydroxyl radicals, superoxide anion, singlet oxygen, and peroxynitrite were determined by using ORAC, HORAC, SORAC, SOAC, and NORAC assays, respectively. The total antioxidant capacity of 2c was approximately 1.5-fold those of 2f and 2p. Total antioxidant capacity was primarily attributable to SORAC and ORAC for 2c (>77%, p<0.05), and to ORAC and SOAC for 2f. ORAC accounted for approximately 32% of total antioxidant capacity in 2p. EC50 values for inhibiting TNF-α-induced NF-κB activation in C2C12 cells were 64.3, 29.3, and 9.10 μM for 2c, 2f, and 2p, respectively. Differences in antioxidant capacities and ability to inhibit NF-κB among the avenanthramides could be ascribed to structural variations.
During aging, chronic systemic inflammation increases in prevalence and antioxidant balance shifts in favor of oxidant generation. Avenanthramide (AVA) is a group of oat phenolics that have shown anti-inflammatory and antioxidant capability. The present study investigated whether dietary supplementation of avenanthramides (AVA) in oats would increase antioxidant protection and reduce inflammation after a bout of downhill walking (DW) in postmenopausal women. Women at age of 50-80 years (N = 16) were randomly divided into two groups in a double-blinded fashion, receiving two cookies made of oat flour providing 9.2 mg AVA or 0.4 mg AVA (control, C) each day for 8 weeks. Before and after the dietary regimen, each group of subjects walked downhill on a treadmill (-9% grade) for 4 bouts of 15 minutes at a speed of 4.0 km/h with 5 minutes rest between sessions. Blood samples were collected at rest, 24 h post-DW, and 48 h post-DW pre- and post-supplementation. Both DW sessions increased plasma creatine kinase activity (P < 0.05). Before supplementation, in vitro neutrophil respiratory burst (NRB) activity was increased at 24 h post-DW (P < 0.05) and C-reactive protein (CRP) was increased 48 h post-DW (P < 0.05). AVA supplementation decreased DW-induced NRB at 24 h (P < 0.05) and CRP level 48 h (P < 0.05). Plasma interleukin (IL)-1β concentration and mononuclear cell nuclear factor (NF) κB binding were suppressed at rest and during post-DW period in AVA but not C group (P < 0.05). Plasma total antioxidant capacity (P < 0.05) and erythrocyte superoxide dismutase activity were increased in AVA vs. C (P < 0.05), whereas glutathione redox status was elevated 48 h post-DW but not affected by AVA. Thus, chronic AVA supplementation decreased systemic and DW-induced inflammation and increased blood-borne antioxidant defense in postmenopausal women.
Hyperphagia is a central feature of inherited disorders (e.g., Prader-Willi Syndrome) in which obesity is a primary phenotypic component. Hyperphagia may also contribute to obesity as observed in the general population, thus raising the potential importance of common underlying mechanisms and treatments. Substantial gaps in understanding the molecular basis of inherited hyperphagia syndromes are present as are a lack of mechanistic of mechanistic targets that can serve as a basis for pharmacologic and behavioral treatments. International conference with 28 experts, including scientists and caregivers, providing presentations, panel discussions, and debates. The reviewed collective research and clinical experience provides a critical body of new and novel information on hyperphagia at levels ranging from molecular to population. Gaps in understanding and tools needed for additional research were identified. This report documents the full scope of important topics reviewed at a comprehensive international meeting devoted to the topic of hyperphagia and identifies key areas for future funding and research.
We have previously demonstrated that oleuropein (OL) and hydroxytyrosol (HT) reduce 17β-estradiol-mediated proliferation in MCF-7 breast cancer (BC) cells without affecting the classical genomic action of estrogen receptor (ER), but activating instead the ERK1/2 pathway. Here, we hypothesized that this inhibition could be mediated by a G-protein-coupled receptor named GPER/GPR30. Using the ER-negative and GPER-positive SKBR3 BC cells as experimental model, we investigated the effects of OL and HT on GPER-mediated activation of downstream pathways. Docking simulations and ligand-binding studies evidenced that OL and HT are able to bind GPER. MTT cell proliferation assays revealed that both phenols reduced SKBR3 cell growth; this effect was abolished silencing GPER. Focusing on OL and HT GPER-mediated pathways, using Western blot analysis we showed a sustained ERK1/2 activation triggering an intrinsic apoptotic pathway. Showing that OL and HT work as GPER inverse agonists in ER-negative and GPER-positive SKBR3 BC cells, we provide novel insights into the potential of these two molecules as tools in the therapy of this subtype of BC.
Yorkshire fog (Holcus lanatus), which belongs to the Poaceae family and is a close relative of the agronomic crop oat (Avena sativa), is a widely adaptable grass species that is able to grow on highly acidic soils with high levels of Al, but the mechanism underlying the high Al tolerance is unknown. Here, we characterized two accessions of H. lanatus collected from an acid plot (soil pH 3.6, HL-A) and a neutral plot (pH 7.1, HL-N) in terms of Al tolerance, organic acid anion secretion and related gene expression. In response to Al (pH 4.5), the HL-A roots secreted approximately twice as much malate as the HL-N roots, but there was no difference in citrate secretion. Cloning of the gene HlALMT1 responsible for malate secretion showed that the encoded amino acid sequence did not differ between two accessions, but the expression level in the outer cell layers of the HL-A roots was twice as high as in the HL-N roots. This difference was not due to the genomic copy number, but was due to the number of cis-acting elements for an Al-responsive transcription factor (HlART1) in the promoter region of HlALMT1, as demonstrated by both a yeast one-hybrid assay and a transient assay in tobacco protoplasts. Furthermore, introduction of HlALMT1 driven by the HL-A promoter into rice resulted in significantly more Al-induced malate secretion than introduction of HlALMT1 driven by the HL-N promoter. These findings indicate that the adaptation of H. lanatus to acidic soils may be achieved by increasing number of cis-acting elements for ART1 in the promoter region of the HlALMT1 gene, enhancing the expression of HlALMT1 and the secretion of malate.
A high-fat diet (HFD) can increase hypothalamic galanin (GAL). GAL has recently been shown to inhibit opiate reward, which in turn, decreases cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). We hypothesized that injection of GAL into the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), or consumption of a HFD, would be associated with a decrease in NAc CREB. In Exp. 1, GAL in the PVN of naïve rats decreased phosphorylated-CREB (pCREB) which is the activated form of CREB, in the NAc compared to saline-injected controls. In Exp. 2, rats fed ad libitum HFD for 4 weeks had reduced NAc pCREB levels compared to rats with sporadic tastes of the HFD. Body weight, serum triglyceride and leptin levels were also raised in the chronic HFD-fed rats. These data suggest that PVN GAL or chronic intake of a HFD can decrease NAc pCREB. The implications of these findings may help to explain the lack of opiate-like withdrawal that has been reported in response to overeating a HFD, thereby providing a potential mechanism underlying behavioral differences seen with addiction-like overconsumption of different types of palatable foods.
The role of PPARγ in cancer therapy is controversial, with studies showing either pro-tumorigenic or antineoplastic effects. This debate is very clinically relevant, because PPARγ agonists are used as antidiabetic drugs. Here, we evaluated if the effects of PPARγ on tumorigenesis are determined by the cell type in which PPARγ is activated. Second, we examined if the metabolic changes induced by PPARγ, such as glycolysis and autophagy, play any role in the tumorigenic process. To this end, PPARγ was overexpressed in breast cancer cells or in stromal cells. PPARγ-overexpressing cells were examined with respect to (1) their tumorigenic potential, using xenograft models, and (2) regarding their metabolic features. In xenograft models, we show that when PPARγ is activated in cancer cells, tumor growth is inhibited by 40%. However, when PPARγ is activated in stromal cells, the growth of co-injected breast cancer cells is enhanced by 60%. Thus, the effect(s) of PPARγ on tumorigenesis are dependent on the cell compartment in which PPARγ is activated. Mechanistically, stromal cells with activated PPARγ display metabolic features of cancer-associated fibroblasts, with increased autophagy, glycolysis and senescence. Indeed, fibroblasts overexpressing PPARγ show increased expression of autophagic markers, increased numbers of acidic autophagic vacuoles, increased production of L-lactate, cell hypertrophy and mitochondrial dysfunction. In addition, PPARγ fibroblasts show increased expression of CDKs (p16/p21) and β-galactosidase, which are markers of cell cycle arrest and senescence. Finally, PPARγ induces the activation of the two major transcription factors that promote autophagy and glycolysis, i.e., HIF-1α and NFκB, in stromal cells. Thus, PPARγ activation in stromal cells results in the formation of a catabolic pro-inflammatory microenvironment that metabolically supports cancer growth. Interestingly, the tumor inhibition observed when PPARγ is expressed in epithelial cancer cells is also associated with increased autophagy, suggesting that activation of an autophagic program has both pro- or antitumorigenic effects depending on the cell compartment in which it occurs. Finally, when PPARγ is expressed in epithelial cancer cells, the suppression of tumor growth is associated with a modest inhibition of angiogenesis. In conclusion, these data support the "two-compartment tumor metabolism" model, which proposes that metabolic coupling exists between catabolic stromal cells and oxidative cancer cells. Cancer cells induce autophagy, glycolysis and senescence in stromal cells. In return, stromal cells generate onco-metabolites and mitochondrial fuels (L-lactate, ketones, glutamine/aminoacids and fatty acids) that are used by cancer cells to enhance their tumorigenic potential. Thus, as researchers design new therapies, they must be conscious that cancer is not a cell-autonomous disease, but rather a tumor is an ecosystem of many different cell types, which engage in metabolic symbiosis.
Oats are gaining increasing scientific and public interest for their purported antioxidant-associated health benefits. Most reported studies focused on specific oat extracts or particular oat components, such as β-glucans, tocols (vitamin E), or avenanthramides. Studies on whole oats with respect to antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities are still lacking. Here the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities from whole oat groats of seven common varieties were evaluated. All oat varieties had very similar oxygen radical absorption capacity compared with other whole grains. In an anti-inflammatory assay, oat variety CDC Dancer inhibited tumor necrosis factor-α induced nuclear factor-kappa B activation by 27.5% at 2 mg/ml, whereas variety Deiter showed 13.7% inhibition at a comparable dose. Avenanthramide levels did not correlate with the observed antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. Further investigations are needed to pinpoint the specific antioxidant and anti-inflammatory compounds, and potential synergistic and/or matrix effects that may help explain the mechanisms of oat's anti-inflammatory actions.
Exposure of the breast to estrogens and other sex hormones is an important cancer risk factor and estrogen receptor downregulators are attracting significant clinical interest. Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), a polyphenolic compound found in green tea, has gained considerable attention for its antitumor properties. Here we aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms through which EGCG regulates ER-α expression in ER+ PR+ breast cancer cells. Western blotting analysis, real-time PCR, and transient transfections of deletion fragments of the ER-α gene promoter show that EGCG downregulates ER-α protein, mRNA, and gene promoter activity with a concomitant reduction of ER-α genomic and nongenomic signal. These events occur through p38(MAPK) /CK2 activation, causing the release from Hsp90 of progesterone receptor B (PR-B) and its consequent nuclear translocation as evidenced by immunofluorescence studies. EMSA, and ChIP assay reveal that, upon EGCG treatment, PR-B is recruited at the half-PRE site on ER-α promoter. This is concomitant with the formation of a corepressor complex containing NCoR and HDAC1 while RNA polymerase II is displaced. The events are crucially mediated by PR-B isoform, since they are abrogated with PR-B siRNA. Our data provide evidence for a mechanism by which EGCG downregulates ER-α and explains the inhibitory action of EGCG on the proliferation of ER+ PR+ cancer cells tested. We suggest that the EGCG/PR-B signaling should be further exploited for clinical approach.
The spatio-temporal control of gene expression is fundamental to elucidate cell proliferation and deregulation phenomena in living systems. Novel approaches based on light-sensitive multiprotein complexes have recently been devised, showing promising perspectives for the noninvasive and reversible modulation of the DNA-transcriptional activity in vivo. This has lately been demonstrated in a striking way through the generation of the artificial protein construct light-oxygen-voltage (LOV)-tryptophan-activated protein (TAP), in which the LOV-2-Jα photoswitch of phototropin1 from Avena sativa (AsLOV2-Jα) has been ligated to the tryptophan-repressor (TrpR) protein from Escherichia coli. Although tremendous progress has been achieved on the generation of such protein constructs, a detailed understanding of their functioning as opto-genetical tools is still in its infancy. Here, we elucidate the early stages of the light-induced regulatory mechanism of LOV-TAP at the molecular level, using the noninvasive molecular dynamics simulation technique. More specifically, we find that Cys450-FMN-adduct formation in the AsLOV2-Jα-binding pocket after photoexcitation induces the cleavage of the peripheral Jα-helix from the LOV core, causing a change of its polarity and electrostatic attraction of the photoswitch onto the DNA surface. This goes along with the flexibilization through unfolding of a hairpin-like helix-loop-helix region interlinking the AsLOV2-Jα- and TrpR-domains, ultimately enabling the condensation of LOV-TAP onto the DNA surface. By contrast, in the dark state the AsLOV2-Jα photoswitch remains inactive and exerts a repulsive electrostatic force on the DNA surface. This leads to a distortion of the hairpin region, which finally relieves its tension by causing the disruption of LOV-TAP from the DNA.
Endometrial cancer exhibits a strong incidence in western developed countries mainly due to fat-rich diet and obesity. Processing of dietary lipids is triggered by bile acids, amphipathic detergents that are synthesized in the liver and stored in the gallbladder. In addition to their well-recognized role in dietary lipid absorption and cholesterol homeostasis, bile acids can also act as signaling molecules with systemic endocrine functions. In the present study we investigated the biological effects of the primary bile chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) on a human endometrial cancer cell line, Ishikawa. Low concentrations of CDCA are able to stimulate Ishikawa cell growth by inducing a significant increase in Cyclin D1 protein and mRNA expression through the activation of the membrane G protein-coupled receptor (TGR5)-dependent pathway. Dissecting the molecular mechanism underlying this effect by mutagenesis, EMSA and ChIP analysis revealed that CDCA-induced Cyclin D1 expression requires the enhanced recruitment of the transcription factor CREB on the cyclic AMP-responsive element motif within the Cyclin D1 gene proximal promoter. Our results suggest a novel molecular mechanism explaining the potential contribution of high-fat diet and obesity to endometrial cancer growth and progression opening the rationale for strategies to prevent the risk of this obesity-related cancer in women.
Salinity is a major abiotic constraint affecting oat productivity. Several physiological and biochemical traits have been found to be related to yield maintenance under salinity. The impact of introducing the Arabidopsis CBF3 gene controlled by the rd29A stress-inducible promoter in T(2) transgenic oat on salinity tolerance and associated physiological changes were studied. Compared with the non-transgenic control, transgenic T(2) plants exhibited greater growth and showed significant maintenance of leaf area, relative water content, chlorophyll content, photosynthetic and transpiration rates as well as increased levels of proline and soluble sugars under high salt stress. These physiological changes delayed leaf-wilting symptoms, increased tolerance and reduced yield loss. At a salinity stress level of 100mM, the CBF3-overexpressing transgenic oat showed a yield loss of 4-11% compared with >56% for the non-transgenic control. These results demonstrate that stress-inducible over-expression of CBF3 may have the potential to enhance abiotic stress tolerance in oat.
A considerable amount of evidence indicates that tumorigenesis is associated with inflammation. Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B), a master regulator of infection and inflammation, has been identified as a key modulator in which inflammation could develop into cancer. Dietary polyphenols have been shown to have anti-inflammatory and anticancer activity partially through inhibition of NF-kappa B activation. This review summarizes the effect of polyphenols on inflammation and cancer; avenanthramides, a unique polyphenol from oats, are especially focused.
Dietary components, like beta-glucans, can modulate the intestinal immune response. We previously showed that fecal water enriched with oat beta-glucan stimulated the cytokine-induced immune response of enterocytes. It is, however, unclear whether beta-glucans activate nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathways in the intestine in vivo and if so, whether enterocytes, intestinal leukocytes, or both respond to beta-glucans. We evaluated the effects of an oral gavage of 3 mg dietary oat (1-->3), (1-->4)-beta-D-glucans that was administered twice daily during 3.5 days on intestinal NF-kappaB transactivation and subsequent cytokine production of intestinal leukocytes and enterocytes in 16 NF-kappaB reporter mice. We hypothesized that oat beta-glucan activates the central immune transcription factor NF-kappaB and increased cytokine secretion, as we previously reported immune stimulating effects by oat beta-glucan. We found that mice that were administered oat beta-glucans (n = 8) showed an increased intestinal NF-kappaB transactivation in leukocytes (P = .021) and enterocytes (P = .012), particularly in the proximal part of the small intestine (ileum), as compared to placebo mice (n = 8). Surprisingly, NF-kappaB was not activated in the colon. Furthermore, the level of interleukin 12 was increased in intestinal lysates from all compartments, whereas the concentration of interferon gamma was decreased in the proximal small intestine (P = .046). Finally, tumor necrosis factor alpha showed a trend toward a reduced production in the colon (P = .057). Because we have earlier shown that human enterocyte cell lines do not express the beta-glucan receptor dectin-1 in vitro, we now conclude that after consumption, dietary oat beta-glucans most likely firstly activate the intestinal leukocytes, which in turn increases cellular activation of enterocytes.
Dihydroavenanthramide D (DHAvD) is a synthetic analog to naturally occurring avenanthramide, which is the active component of oat. Although its anti-inflammatory, antiatherosclerotic, and antioxidant effects have been reported, the effect of DHAvD on type 1 diabetes is unknown. Therefore, in this study, the effect of DHAvD on cytokine- or streptozotocin-induced beta-cell damage was investigated. Treatment of RINm5F insulinoma cells or isolated islets with IL-1beta and IFN-gamma induced beta-cell damage through a NF-kappaB-dependent signaling pathway. DHAvD-pretreated RINm5F cells or islets showed resistance to cytokine toxicity, namely suppressed nitric oxide (NO) production, reduced the inducible form of NO synthase expression, and decreased beta-cell destruction and the normal insulin secretion capacity. Furthermore, pretreatment with DHAvD blocked the development of type 1 diabetes in streptozotocin-treated mice. Prior injection with DHAvD maintained a normal range of plasma glucose and insulin, and retained immunoreactivity for insulin in the pancreas. These results suggest that DHAvD may be used to preserve functional beta-cell mass.
An understanding of how allostery, the conformational coupling of distant functional sites, arises in highly evolvable systems is of considerable interest in areas ranging from cell biology to protein design and signaling networks. We reasoned that the rigidity and defined geometry of an alpha-helical domain linker would make it effective as a conduit for allosteric signals. To test this idea, we rationally designed 12 fusions between the naturally photoactive LOV2 domain from Avena sativa phototropin 1 and the Escherichia coli trp repressor. When illuminated, one of the fusions selectively binds operator DNA and protects it from nuclease digestion. The ready success of our rational design strategy suggests that the helical "allosteric lever arm" is a general scheme for coupling the function of two proteins.
Oatmeal has been used for centuries as a soothing agent to relieve itch and irritation associated with various xerotic dermatoses; however few studies have sought to identify the active phytochemical(s) in oat that mediate this anti-inflammatory activity. Avenanthramides are phenolic compounds present in oats at approximately 300 parts per million (ppm) and have been reported to exhibit anti-oxidant activity in various cell-types. In the current study we investigated whether these compounds exert anti-inflammatory activity in the skin. We found that avenanthramides at concentrations as low as 1 parts per billion inhibited the degradation of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B-alpha (IkappaB-alpha) in keratinocytes which correlated with decreased phosphorylation of p65 subunit of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB). Furthermore, cells treated with avenanthramides showed a significant inhibition of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) induced NF-kappaB luciferase activity and subsequent reduction of interleukin-8 (IL-8) release. Additionally, topical application of 1-3 ppm avenanthramides mitigated inflammation in murine models of contact hypersensitivity and neurogenic inflammation and reduced pruritogen-induced scratching in a murine itch model. Taken together these results demonstrate that avenanthramides are potent anti-inflammatory agents that appear to mediate the anti-irritant effects of oats.
The chronic inflammation of arterial walls is associated with the development of atherosclerosis. Earlier we reported that avenanthramide (Avn)s-enriched extract of oats (AvnsO) significantly suppressed interleukin (IL)-1beta-stimulated secretion of proinflammatory cytokines, such as IL-6, IL-8, and MCP-1, by human aortic endothelial cells (HAEC). The main objective of the current study was to determine if the mechanism of inhibitory effect of these polyphenols from oats on the expression of proinflammatory cytokines is mediated through modulation of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB)-dependent transcription. Confluent HAEC monolayers were treated for 24 h with AvnsO, and synthetically prepared Avn-c suppressed IL-beta-stimulated activation of NF-kappaB in a concentration-dependent manner. CH3-Avn-c, a synthetically prepared methyl ester derivative of Avn-c with a high biological potency, significantly and dose dependently decreased mRNA expression and secretion of IL-6, IL-8, and MCP-1 by HAEC as determined by real-time RT-PCR and ELISA, and it inhibited IL-1beta- and TNFalpha-stimulated NF-kappaB activation as determined by a NF-kappaB DNA binding assay and a NF-kappaB luciferase reporter assay. AvnsO and Avn-c as well as CH3-Avn-c also inhibited the NF-kappaB-dependent reporter gene expression activated by TNFR-associated factor 2 and 6 (TRAF2, TRAF6) and NFkappaB-inducing kinase (NIK). CH3-Avn-c also significantly and dose dependently decreased the phosphorylation level of IkappaB kinase (IKK) and IkappaB, and prevented IkappaB degradation as measured by Western blotting. In addition, CH3-Avn-c markedly increased the overall levels of high mass ubiquitin-conjugated protein levels while it mildly inhibited proteasome activity. These observations suggest that Avns, unique polyphenols from oats, decrease the expression of endothelial proinflammatory cytokines at least in part through inhibition of NF-kappaB activation by inhibiting the phosphorylation of IKK and IkappaB, and by suppressing proteasome activity.
We have previously demonstrated that wild-type Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes lack arginine decarboxylase (ADC) enzymatic activity as well as its encoding gene. A foreign ADC has recently been expressed in T. cruzi after transformation with a recombinant plasmid containing the complete coding region of the oat ADC gene. In the present study, upon modulation of exogenous ADC expression, we found that ADC activity was detected early after transfection; subsequently it decreased to negligible levels between 2 and 3 weeks after electroporation and was again detected approximately 4 weeks after electroporation. After this period, the ADC activity increased markedly and became expressed permanently. These changes of enzymatic activity showed a close correlation with the corresponding levels of ADC transcripts. To investigate whether the genome organization of the transgenic T. cruzi underwent any modification related to the expression of the heterologous gene, we performed PCR amplification assays, restriction mapping and pulse-field gel electrophoresis with DNA samples or chromosomes obtained from parasites collected at different time-points after transfection. The results indicated that the transforming plasmid remained as free episomes during the transient expression of the foreign gene. Afterwards, the free plasmid disappeared almost completely for several weeks and, finally, when the expression of the ADC gene became stable, two or more copies of the transforming plasmid arranged in tandem were integrated into a parasite chromosome (1.4 Mbp) bearing a ribosomal RNA locus. The sensitivity of transcription to alpha-amanitin strongly suggests involvement of the protozoan RNA polymerase I in the transcription of the exogenous ADC gene.
Oat is an important crop in North America and northern Europe. In Scandinavia, yields are limited by the fact that oat cannot be used as a winter crop. In order to develop such a crop, more knowledge about mechanisms of cold tolerance in oat is required. From an oat cDNA library 9792 single-pass EST sequences were obtained. The library was prepared from pooled RNA samples isolated from leaves of four-week old Avena sativa (oat) plants incubated at +4 degrees C for 4, 8, 16 and 32 hours. Exclusion of sequences shorter than 100 bp resulted in 8508 high-quality ESTs with a mean length of 710.7 bp. Clustering and assembly identified a set of 2800 different transcripts denoted the Avena sativa cold induced UniGene set (AsCIUniGene set). Taking advantage of various tools and databases, putative functions were assigned to 1620 (58%) of these genes. Of the remaining 1180 unclassified sequences, 427 appeared to be oat-specific since they lacked any significant sequence similarity (Blast E values > 10(-10)) to any sequence available in the public databases. Of the 2800 UniGene sequences, 398 displayed significant homology (BlastX E values < or = 10(-10)) to genes previously reported to be involved in cold stress related processes. 107 novel oat transcription factors were also identified, out of which 51 were similar to genes previously shown to be cold induced. The CBF transcription factors have a major role in regulating cold acclimation. Four oat CBF sequences were found, belonging to the monocot cluster of DREB family ERF/AP2 domain proteins. Finally in the total EST sequence data (5.3 Mbp) approximately 400 potential SSRs were found, a frequency similar to what has previously been identified in Arabidopsis ESTs. The AsCIUniGene set will now be used to fabricate an oat biochip, to perform various expression studies with different oat cultivars incubated at varying temperatures, to generate molecular markers and provide tools for various genetic transformation experiments in oat. This will lead to a better understanding of the cellular biology of this important crop and will open up new ways to improve its agronomical properties.
The maize (Zea mays) Viviparous 1 (Vp1) transcription factor has been shown previously to be a major regulator of seed development, simultaneously activating embryo maturation and repressing germination. Hexaploid bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) caryopses are characterized by relatively weak embryo dormancy and are susceptible to preharvest sprouting (PHS), a phenomenon that is phenotypically similar to the maize vp1 mutation. Analysis of Vp-1 transcript structure in wheat embryos during grain development showed that each homeologue produces cytoplasmic mRNAs of different sizes. The majority of transcripts are spliced incorrectly, contain insertions of intron sequences or deletions of coding region, and do not have the capacity to encode full-length proteins. Several VP-1-related lower molecular weight protein species were present in wheat embryo nuclei. Embryos of a closely related tetraploid species (Triticum turgidum) and ancestral diploids also contained misspliced Vp-1 transcripts that were structurally similar or identical to those found in modern hexaploid wheat, which suggests that compromised structure and expression of Vp-1 transcripts in modern wheat are inherited from ancestral species. Developing embryos from transgenic wheat grains expressing the Avena fatua Vp1 gene showed enhanced responsiveness to applied abscisic acid compared with the control. In addition, ripening ears of transgenic plants were less susceptible to PHS. Our results suggest that missplicing of wheat Vp-1 genes contributes to susceptibility to PHS in modern hexaploid wheat varieties and identifies a possible route to increase resistance to this environmentally triggered disorder.
Auxin/indole-3-acetic acid (Aux/IAA) genes encode short-lived transcription factors that are induced as a primary response to the plant growth hormone IAA or auxin. Gain-of-function mutations in Arabidopsis genes, SHY2/IAA3, AXR3/IAA17, and AXR2/IAA7 cause pleiotropic phenotypes consistent with enhanced auxin responses, possibly by increasing Aux/IAA protein stability. Semidominant mutations shy2-1D, shy2-2, axr3-1, and axr2-1 induce ectopic light responses in dark-grown seedlings. Because genetic studies suggest that the shy2-1D and shy2-2 mutations bypass phytochrome requirement for certain aspects of photomorphogenesis, we tested whether SHY2/IAA3 and related Aux/IAA proteins interact directly with phytochrome and whether they are substrates for its protein kinase activity. Here we show that recombinant Aux/IAA proteins from Arabidopsis and pea (Pisum sativum) interact in vitro with recombinant phytochrome A from oat (Avena sativa). We further show that recombinant SHY2/IAA3, AXR3/IAA17, IAA1, IAA9, and Ps-IAA4 are phosphorylated by recombinant oat phytochrome A in vitro. Deletion analysis of Ps-IAA4 indicates that phytochrome A phosphorylation occurs on the N-terminal half of the protein. Metabolic labeling and immunoprecipitation studies with affinity-purified antibodies to IAA3 demonstrate increased in vivo steady-state levels of mutant IAA3 in shy2-2 plants and phosphorylation of the SHY2-2 protein in vivo. Phytochrome-dependent phosphorylation of Aux/IAA proteins is proposed to provide one molecular mechanism for integrating auxin and light signaling in plant development.
The Avena fatua (wild oat) homologue of VIVIPAROUS 1 (AfVP1) has been implicated in controlling the maintenance of embryo dormancy in mature imbibed seeds, but the detailed mechanisms by which this transcription factor family activates embryo maturation pathways and simultaneously represses germination are not known. A two-hybrid screen in yeast identified three proteins that interacted specifically with AfVP1 (AfVP1 interacting proteins; AfVIPs). AfVIPs 2 and 3 interacted with the C-terminus of AfVP1, which contains the B2 + B3 domains, previously shown to bind DNA, whereas AfVIP1 interacted with the isolated B3 domain. Using purified proteins in in vitro experiments, all three AfVIPs were shown also to interact with the Arabidopsis homologue ABSCISIC ACID INSENSITIVE 3 (ABI3). The three AfVIPs were expressed in both dormant and non-dormant embryos, but the abundance of AfVIP1 and 3 transcripts was greater in germinated than dormant seeds, whereas transcripts of AfVIP2 (and AfVP1) were more highly expressed in dormant embryos. The AfVIP3 protein has homology to a human cell-crisis gene with a predicted role in the cell cycle; AfVIP2 contains a ring-type zinc finger motif. These homologies, together with analysis of expression studies, suggest that these proteins may play specific roles in AfVP1-mediated regulation of the dormancy to germination transition in A. fatua seeds.
To elucidate the mechanisms by which alpha-amylase genes are expressed in wild oat aleurone, two genes, alpha-Amy2/A and alpha-Amy2/D, were isolated. Both were shown to be positively regulated by gibberellin (GA) during germination and both contain the conserved cis-acting elements Box 2, GA-response element (TAACAGA) and TATCSATSS (where S is C or G). In addition, they possess a conserved initiator element (CATCA) that is present in both alpha-Amy2 and alpha-Amy1 genes, and also in a number of other plant TATA-containing and TATA-less promoters. DNase 1 footprint analysis showed the alpha-Amy2/A promoter to be a complex array of binding sites for a number of different classes of DNA-binding proteins. Our data suggest that the area around the initiator element (Inr) is bound by a large complex of general transcription factors, that the TATA box is bound by the TFIID complex, that Box 2 is bound by one or more WRKY proteins and that the GA-response element is bound by one or more MYBs. Two other elements containing the core sequence CCATGG/C are bound by nuclear protein and this sequence is the core of the Sph element. The regulation of alpha-Amy2 genes by GA therefore involves an interplay of at least three different types of transcription factor.
N-Terminal apoprotein fragments of oat phytochrome A (phyA) of 65 kDa (amino acids 1-595) and potato phyB of 66 kDa (1-596) were heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli and in the yeasts Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Pichia pastoris, and assembled with phytochromobilin (PthetaB; native chromophore) and phycocyanobilin (PCB). The phyA65 apoprotein from yeast showed a monoexponential assembly kinetics after an initial steep rise, whereas the corresponding apoprotein from E. coli showed only a slow monoexponential assembly. The phyB66 apoprotein incorporated either chromophore more slowly than the phyA65s, with biexponential kinetics. With all apoproteins, PthetaB was incorporated faster than PCB. The thermal stabilities of the Pfr forms of the N-terminal halves are similar to those known for the full-length recombinant phytochromes: oat phyA65 Pfr is highly stable, whereas potato phyB66 Pfr is rapidly converted into Pr. Thus, neither the C-terminal domain nor homodimer formation regulates this property. Rather, it is a characteristic of the phytochrome indicating its origin from mono- or dicots. The Pr to Pfr kinetics of the N-terminal phyA65 and phyB66 are different. The primary photoproduct I700 of phyA65-PCB decayed monoexponentially and the PthetaB analogue biexponentially, whereas the phyB66 I700 decayed monoexponentially irrespective of the chromophore incorporated. The formation of Pfr from Pr is faster with the N-terminal halves than with the full-length phytochromes, indicating an involvement of the C-terminal domain in the relatively slow protein conformational changes.
Embryo dormancy is a reversible developmental state during which germination is repressed. In this study, inbred lines of Avena fatua were used to analyse the influence of genotype and environment on the dormant phenotype, and on expression of the homologue of the maize transcription factor VIVIPAROUS 1 (afVP 1). The cDNA for afVP 1 was cloned from mature embryos. Analysis of the predicted protein sequence revealed a high degree of similarity to other VP 1/ABI 3-related transcription factors, in particular in four regions previously shown to be highly conserved, including the BR2 region that has been shown to interact with several classes of sequence-specific DNA binding proteins. The potential of imbibed mature embryos for dormancy was analysed and shown to be determined primarily by genotype and secondarily by previous environmental experience of the mature seed acting on embryo genotype. Under all conditions studied, expression of afVP 1 and the A. fatua homologue of Em (shown in maize to be regulated by VP 1 during embryo maturation) were positively correlated with the dormant phenotype, whereas expression of A. fatua AMY-related RNAs was negatively correlated with dormancy (in barley AMY 6-4 has been shown to be repressed by VP 1). Expression of afVP 1 RNA was also shown in the dry seed to be positively correlated with the length of time required for seeds of the inbred lines to after-ripen. These results suggest new functions for the VP 1 transcription factor family in the control of dormancy-related processes in embryo cells of mature seeds, and the up-regulation of afVP 1 and afEm RNAs in the dormant state suggests that they are regulated by a switching mechanism in the mature seed that shows some aspects of reversibility.
Here, we examine the cis-elements and trans-factors affecting the expression of asparagine synthetase (AS) genes whose transcription is negatively regulated by light. The promoters for the AS1 and AS2 genes of pea were isolated, sequenced, and functionally dissected for their ability to confer regulated expression to the GUS reporter gene in transgenic tobacco. Histochemical analysis of transgenic plants demonstrated that the AS1 and AS2 promoters show identical patterns of cell-specific expression. The more highly active AS1 promoter was further demonstrated to confer negative light-regulation to the GUS gene in transgenic tobacco. Deletion analysis and gain-of-function experiments showed that 124 bp of the AS1 promoter was sufficient to confer light-activated repression to a heterologous promoter. Potential conserved transcription regulatory elements, Box B, Box C, and Box C' within this region were shown to bind to nuclear proteins by gel shift analysis. A light-specific DNA:protein interaction was detected with Box B. The nuclear factors that bind to Box C and C' elements of AS1 are competed by a putative repressor element 'RE1' defined previously in the oat phytochrome gene whose transcription is also repressed by light. The Box B and C/C'-Box/RE1-binding factors were found in nuclear extracts of tobacco, pea, and Arabidopsis and may therefore be universal factors involved in light-activated transcriptional repression.
In higher plants, environmental cues such as light signals are integrated with circadian clock signals to control precisely the daily rhythms observed for many biological functions. We have used a fusion of the promoter of a chlorophyll a/b binding protein gene, CAB2, with firefly luciferase (cab2::luc) to monitor the detailed kinetics of transcription in response to photoreceptor activation in Arabidopsis. Using this marker in phototransduction and circadian-dysfunctional mutants, we studied how signals from phytochrome and the circadian clock are integrated for the regulation of CAB2 transcription. Results from these mutant studies demonstrate that similar expression features, namely, the acute and circadian responses, are present in both etiolated and green seedlings and that the acute and circadian responses are genetically separable. We also demonstrate that persistent Pfr signaling occurs in red light-pulsed etiolated seedlings, which suggests that the circadian clock antagonizes Pfr-mediated signal transduction. Based on these genetic studies, we propose a model for the regulation of CAB2 transcription in which individual photoreceptors and phototransduction components have been assigned to specific pathways for the regulation of discrete kinetic components of the CAB2 expression pattern.
A repertoire of various methods of computer sequence analysis was applied to phytochromes in order to gain new insights into their structure and function. A statistical analysis of 23 complete phytochrome sequences revealed regions of non-random amino acid composition, which are supposed to be of particular structural or functional importance. All phytochromes other than phyD and phyE from Arabidopsis have at least one such region at the N-terminus between residues 2 and 35. A sequence similarity search of current databases indicated striking homologies between all phytochromes and a hypothetical 84.2-kDa protein from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis. Furthermore, scanning the phytochrome sequences for the occurrence of patterns defined in the PROSITE database detected the signature of the WD repeats of the beta-transducin family within the functionally important 623-779 region (sequence numbering of phyA from Avena) in a number of phytochromes. A multiple sequence alignment performed with 23 complete phytochrome sequences is made available via the IMB Jena World-Wide Web server (http://www.imb-jena.de/PHYTO.html). It can be used as a working tool for future theoretical and experimental studies. Based on the multiple alignment striking sequence differences between phytochromes A and B were detected directly at the N-terminal end, where all phytochromes B have an additional stretch of 15-42 amino acids. There is also a variety of positions with totally conserved but different amino acids in phytochromes A and B. Most of these changes are found in the sequence segment 150-200. It is, therefore, suggested that this region might be of importance in determining the photosensory specificity of the two phytochromes. The secondary structure prediction based on the multiple alignment resulted in a small but significant beta-sheet content. This finding is confirmed by a reevaluation of the secondary structure using FTIR spectroscopy.
Investigations of phytochrome mutants of Arabidopsis suggested that the expression of chalcone synthase (chs) and anthocyanin accumulation is predominantly controlled by phytochrome A. To test the functionality of phytochrome A and B at the molecular level recombinant, yeast-derived phytochrome-phycocyanobilin adducts (phyA, phyB) and oat phytochrome A (phyA) were microinjected into etiolated aurea tomato seedlings. Subsequent to microinjection anthocyanin and chlorophyll accumulation was monitored as well as beta-glucuronidase (GUS) expression mediated by light-regulated promoters (chs, chlorophyll a/b binding protein (lhcb1) and ferredoxin NADP+ oxidoreductase (fnn). Microinjection of phyA under white light conditions caused anthocyanin and chlorophyll accumulation and mediated chs-GUS, lhcb 1-GUS and fnr-GUS expression. Microinjection of phyB under identical conditions induced chlorophyll accumulation and mediated lhcb 1-GUS and fnr-GUS expression but neither anthocyanin accumulation nor chs-GUS expression were observed. The characterization of Arabidopsis phytochrome mutants and the microinjection experiments suggested that phyB cannot induce the accumulation of juvenile anthocyanin. Microinjections under far-red light conditions demonstrated that phyA can act independently of other photoreceptors. By contrast, phyB injections under red light conditions indicated that phyB needs interactions with other photoreceptors to mediate a rapid and efficient de-etiolation signal.
The promoters of wheat, barley and wild oat alpha-Amy2 genes contain a number of conserved cis-acting elements that bind nuclear protein, we report here the isolation of two cDNAs encoding proteins (ABF1 and ABF2) that bind specifically to one of these elements, Box 2 (ATTGACTTGACCGTCATCGG). The two proteins are unrelated to each other except for a conserved region of 56-58 amino acids that consists of 25 highly conserved amino acids followed by a putative zinc finger motif, C-X4-5-C-X22-23-H-X1-H. ABF1 contains two such conserved regions, whereas ABF2 possesses only one but also contains a potential leucine zipper motif, suggesting that it could form homo- or heterodimers. ABF1 and ABF2 expressed in Escherichia coli bound specifically to Box 2 probes in gel retardation experiments; this binding was abolished by the transition-metal-chelating agent, 1,10-o-phenanthroline and by EDTA. We propose that ABF1 and ABF2 are representatives of two classes of a new family of plant sequence-specific DNA-binding proteins.
Nucleoside diphosphate kinases (NDPKs) catalyze the transfer of high-energy phosphates from nucleoside triphosphates to nucleoside diphosphates and may be involved in the regulation of growth, development, and signal transduction processes. We report here the purification and characterization of NDPK from detergent-solubilized extracts of dark-grown oat (Avena) tissue. The purification was achieved primarily through adsorption to GTP-agarose, followed by elution with ATP. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and gel filtration chromatography indicated that the purified protein is composed of six 18 kDa subunits. Substrate specificity experiments indicated that the purified kinase is capable of using all tested nucleosides as substrates. N-terminal sequencing of the Avena protein revealed that 87% of the 23 amino acids sequenced were identical to the human Nm23 protein, a nucleoside diphosphate kinase identified as a possible tumor metastasis suppressor and transcriptional activator of the myc oncogene.
An asymmetric (top vs. bottom) increase in invertase activity is elicited by gravistimulation in oat-shoot pulvini starting within 3 h after treatment. In order to analyze the regulation of invertase gene expression in this system, we examined the effect of gravistimulation on invertase mRNA induction. Total RNA and poly (A)+RNA, isolated from oat pulvini, and two oligonucleotide primers, corresponding to two conserved amino-acid sequences (NDPNG and WECPD) found in invertase from other species, were used for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). A partial-length cDNA (550 base pairs) was obtained and characterized. There was a 52% deduced amino-acid sequence homology to that of carrot beta-fructosidase and a 48% homology to that of tomato invertase. Northern blot analysis showed that there was an obvious transient accumulation of invertase mRNA elicited by gravistimulation of oat pulvini. The mRNA was rapidly induced to a maximum level at 1 h following gravistimulation treatment and gradually decreased afterwards. The mRNA level in the bottom half of the oat pulvinus was significantly higher (five-fold) than that in the top half of the pulvinus tissue. The induction of invertase mRNA was consistent with the transient enhancement of invertase activity during the graviresponse of the pulvinus. These data indicate that the expression of the invertase gene(s) could be regulated by gravistimulation at the transcriptional and/or translational levels. Southern blot analysis showed that there were four genomic DNA fragments hybridized to the invertase cDNA. This suggests that an invertase gene family may exist in oat plants.
Pseudomonas syringae pv. coronafaciens, a pathogen of oats, was mutagenized with Tn5 to generate mutants defective in tabtoxin production. From a screen of 3,400 kanamycin-resistant transconjugants, seven independent mutants that do not produce tabtoxin (Tox-) were isolated. Although the Tn5 insertions within these seven mutants were linked, they were not located in the previously described tabtoxin biosynthetic region of P. syringae. Instead, all of the insertions were within the P. syringae pv. coronafaciens lemA gene. The lemA gene is required by strains of P. syringae pv. syringae for pathogenicity on bean plants (Phaseolus vulgaris). In contrast to the phenotype of a P. syringae pv. syringae lemA mutant, the Tox- mutants of P. syringae pv. coronafaciens were still able to produce necrotic lesions on oat plants (Avena sativa), although without the chlorosis associated with tabtoxin production. Northern (RNA) hybridization experiments indicated that a functional lemA gene was required for the detection of a transcript produced from the tblA locus located in the tabtoxin biosynthetic region. Marker exchange mutagenesis of the tblA locus resulted in loss of tabtoxin production. Therefore, both the tblA and lemA genes are required for tabtoxin biosynthesis, and the regulation of tabtoxin production by lemA probably occurs at the transcriptional level.
The plant hormones GA, ABA, and auxin differ from the majority of animal hormones in that they are hydrophobic weak acids. They are soluble in the inter- and intra-cellular environments of plant tissues and their neutral species can cross the plasma membrane by passive diffusion. Auxin transport is mediated by specific uptake and efflux carriers in plasma membranes, and there is some evidence for carrier-mediated uptake of GA and ABA. Because these plant hormones can cross the plasma membrane it is not a prerequisite that receptors for them should be at the protoplast surface. Nevertheless, there is substantial evidence that auxin acts at the plasma membrane, and evidence suggesting that GA may be perceived at the plasma membrane of A. fatua aleurone protoplasts has been reviewed here. It is conceivable that the plant plasma membrane might provide the means to integrate, transduce, and amplify these signals, and that such properties of the plasma membrane, rather than the permeability characteristics of these ligands, may determine the site of perception. Further progress in our understanding of signal transduction pathways that may be involved in the actions of plant hormones is likely to shed light on these questions. It has been proposed that GA receptors involved in cell elongation may be soluble rather than membrane bound. The soluble 50 kDa GA-binding protein observed in aleurone by GA4 photoaffinity labelling may be a good candidate for a soluble GA receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Gibberellins (GAs) are a class of plant hormones involved in the regulation of plant growth and development. A useful model system for studying GA-action is the aleurone layer of cereal grain. In aleurone, GA induces a considerable increase in the rates of transcription of alpha-amylase genes, and this effect can be inhibited by another plant hormone abscisic acid. We anticipate that perception of GA by aleurone cells involves an interaction between the ligand and specific receptors and that this event leads to the observed stimulation in transcription of alpha-amylase, and probably other, aleurone genes. Hormone binding assays with aleurone have not revealed a candidate receptor, and the only aspect of signal transduction that is becoming understood is the likely interaction between specific trans-acting factors and cis-elements in the GA-regulation of alpha-amylase gene transcription. This paper describes the development of novel ways for identifying GA-receptors in aleurone protoplasts of Avena fatua that are based on the use of affinity and antibody probes in functional in vivo assays for GA-receptors. The implications of our current findings are discussed in relation to models of GA-action in aleurone.
Plant protein phosphatase 2C (PP2C) represents the largest and most functionally diverse group of protein phosphatases in plants, playing pivotal roles in regulating metabolic processes, hormone signaling, stress responses, and growth regulation. Despite its significance, a comprehensive genome-wide analysis of the
Caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT) is a multifunctional enzyme involved in lignin biosynthesis and plays an important role in various primary and secondary metabolic pathways, including the plant stress response. In this study, we identified 37
The antioxidant defense mechanisms that shield eukaryotes from oxidative stress depend heavily on the enzyme catalase (CAT). These proteins, which are found in nearly all living creatures, perform crucial functions in regulating how plants react to biotic and abiotic stimuli by regulating the breakdown of H
Oats are widely consumed throughout the world because of their nutritive value, with their yield and quality being associated with the developmental process of grain development. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of the transcriptional dynamics of this process have not yet been fully elucidated. In this study, RNA-seq was performed to investigate the transcriptional dynamics and identify the key genes involved in the development of the oat grain at four different developmental stages. A total of 33,197 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including 1,308 differentially expressed transcription factors (TFs) were identified, 398 DEGs associated with plant hormone signal transduction and 107 DEGs associated with starch and sucrose metabolism. The main concern of this study was to include those genes associated with hormone signaling, and the sucrose and starch metabolism pathways. The results of this study provide valuable insights into the genetic resources affecting the molecular mechanism underlying the development of the oat grain, as well as establishing a strong theoretical foundation for its improvement.
Oats and oat bran are rich in dietary fiber, polyphenols and other phytochemicals. In this study, we evaluated the phytochemical content and established LPS-induced RAW 264.7 macrophage inflammation and DSS-induced Caco-2 cell inflammation models to investigate the anti-inflammatory activities of oat and oat bran polyphenols and their molecular mechanisms. The results showed that oat and oat bran polyphenols (free and bound polyphenols) enhanced phagocytosis, decreased the expression of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), reduced the production of NO and ROS, increased the mitochondrial membrane potential, and reduced the inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6) at the gene level in the RAW 264.7 macrophage inflammation model induced by LPS expression, thus demonstrating strong anti-inflammatory activity. In Caco-2 cells, oat and oat bran polyphenols pretreatment attenuated the DSS-induced decrease in trans-epithelial electron resistance value, increased tight junction protein expression, and reduced cell permeability in Caco-2 cell monolayers, which in turn reduced inflammatory damage in the organism. In summary, the present study not only reveals the mechanism by which oat and oat bran polyphenols inhibit macrophage inflammation and impairment of intestinal barrier function at defined concentration in vitro, but also highlights potential for oat bran as a functional food.
Modern high-yielding crop cultivars are known to have narrow genetic bases, making them vulnerable to biotic and abiotic stresses. However, little is known about the extent of deleterious genetic variants (or mutation burden) present in these cultivars. An attempt was made using RNA-Seq to screen genome-wide deleterious genetic variants in 141 oat and 142 wheat cultivars released through Canadian breeding programs over the past century. The screening identified 5726 and 3022 deleterious genetic variants across all 21 chromosomes of both the oat and wheat genomes, respectively. These deleterious variants were largely harbored in a few cultivars and were involved with diverse biological processes, cellular components, and molecular functions. More highly deleterious variants were predicted in oat, than in wheat, cultivars, and different gene expression profiles at the early seedling stage were observed between oat and wheat cultivars, illustrating different genetic impacts of the oat and wheat breeding programs. Estimating mutation burdens for each cultivar revealed large variations among both the oat and wheat cultivars. These mutation burdens were found to increase from early to recent oat and wheat cultivars and were associated with higher cultivar yields. Genetic analyses also revealed genetic shifts and expansions from early to recent oat and wheat cultivars. These findings provide the first empirical evidence of elevated mutation burdens in Canadian oat and wheat cultivars and are useful for advancing plant breeding programs to minimize genetic risk.
Epidermal pattern factor-like (EPF/EPFL) genes are a unique class of small, secreted peptides found in plants that play crucial roles in plant stress responses. A genome-wide analysis revealed 33 AsEPF/EPFL genes in oats (Avena sativa), with 28 containing the conserved EPF domain and 5 harbouring the stomagen domain. These proteins share 2-6 conserved motifs, reflecting functional modularity. The phylogenetic classification grouped these genes into five evolutionarily conserved clades containing both monocot and dicot homologues, indicating early divergence prior to monocot-dicot speciation. Expression profiling revealed distinct tissue-specific patterns: preferential expression in roots (12 genes), stems (6 genes), leaves (5 genes), and spikes (7 genes), with 3 genes showing dual peak expression in stems and leaves. Further analysis of gene expression under salt and drought stress revealed that AsEPF/EPFLs are induced by both types of stress, with different genes showing varying expression patterns under drought and salt stress. This study identified valuable candidate genes for high-yielding and stress-resistant oat breeding.
Insensitivity to day length is an essential trait for oat cultivation and its geographical spread to a wide range of latitudes. Daylength-insensitive oat cultivars can flower normally from low to high latitudes and may be especially well suited for a double-cropping system. However, few studies have investigated the regulatory mechanisms involved in flowering in photoperiod-insensitive oats. In this study, we compared the developmental stages of shoot apical meristems (SAMs) and transcriptome profiles between the photoperiod-insensitive oat cultivar VAO-8 and the photoperiod-sensitive oat cultivar Baiyan 2 at four time points under a short-day photoperiod. The development of Baiyan 2 was affected by short-day length, and SAMs persisted in the vegetative stage. VAO-8 responded less to photoperiod and matured normally under a short-day photoperiod. Comparative transcriptome data of the two cultivars revealed a total of 824, 1,189, 646 and 1,145 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between VAO-8 and Baiyan 2 at four time points. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that metabolic processes related to chlorophyll biosynthesis, photosynthesis, carbohydrate metabolism and the secondary metabolism were significantly enhanced in VAO-8 compared with those in Baiyan 2. The upregulated genes involved in these processes may contribute to the flowering of VAO-8 under a short-day photoperiod. Furthermore, the differential expression of 93 transcription factor genes involved in multiple flowering pathways was observed, and these genes may play important roles in the regulation of VAO-8 flowering. The results provide a comprehensive understanding of the photoperiod-insensitive molecular mechanism of oats at the transcriptional level under a short-day photoperiod, which lay a foundation for breeding photoperiod-insensitive oat cultivars.
Chronic intakes of functional foods (probiotics, apples and oats) have been reported to have beneficial effects on hepatic lipid regulation and glycaemic control, but mechanistic human studies humans are limited. An ex-vivo study was performed to determine the chronic effects of probiotics, oats, and apples on the expression of genes related to markers of cardiometabolic health in peripheral blood monocular cells (PBMC). In this CABALA sub-study (n = 59/61, age: 52 ± 12y), blood PBMC were also isolated before and 8 weeks after the daily consumption of either a probiotic with bile salt hydrolase activity (Lactobacillus reuteri), porridge oats, Renetta Canada apples or a control. Relative PBMC mRNA gene expression was determined and correlations performed between the fold change in response to the functional interventions and change in cardiometabolic disease risk markers. Relative to baseline, there was an upregulation in the PBMC TLR4 mRNA expression in the control compared with the probiotics and apples groups (p[Formula: see text]0.024). Moderate inverse correlations were found between the fold change in GPBAR1 mRNA expression and change in plasma total and secondary BAs, HMGCR and SREBF1 mRNA gene expressions and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, and SREBF1 and GIPR mRNA gene expressions and glucose. TLR4 and TNFSF14 mRNA gene expressions were associated with pro-inflammatory cytokines (p=0.05). Probiotic and apples interventions attenuated the upregulation in PBMC TLR4 mRNA expression observed with the control. Correlations between fold change in mRNA gene expression and changes in cardiometabolic disease risk markers in response to the functional interventions were in agreement with previous studies. The study was registered at clinical trials.gov (ref. NCT03369548).
Drought is a major abiotic stress that limits oat growth. This study investigated the phenotypic, physiological, and proteomic differences between drought-resistant (Grain King [G]) and drought-susceptible (XiYue [X]) oat varieties under drought stress (soil water content of 15% ± 5% of field water-holding capacity) and normal conditions (soil water content of 75% ± 5% of field water-holding capacity). Phenotypic analysis showed that plant height, aboveground biomass, and underground biomass decreased under drought stress in both varieties, with variety X exhibiting a greater reduction. Physiological analysis revealed increased malondialdehyde content, soluble sugar (SS) content, and superoxide dismutase (SOD) and peroxidase (POD) activities in both varieties under drought stress, though variety X showed smaller increases. Proteomic analysis identified 151 differentially accumulated proteins (DAPs) in variety G and 792 in variety X. Further analyses showed that the DAPs in variety G, which were highly correlated with POD and SOD activities and SS content, were primarily involved in energy metabolism, protein translation, RNA processing, amino acid metabolism, and protein folding. Conversely, in variety X, the DAPs were mainly associated with RNA processing, protein stabilization, plant photosynthesis, intracellular signal transduction, and protein folding. Further analysis suggested that variety G significantly upregulated proteases related to photosynthesis, catalysts involved in citrulline synthesis, temperature-induced lipid transport proteins, fibrillin proteins linked to stress tolerance signal transduction and response, and shearing factors involved in mRNA shearing-proteins that were not significantly upregulated in variety X. These proteins may play essential roles in protecting oats from drought stress. Overall, this research elucidates the drought resistance mechanisms of different oat varieties at the protein level.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are essential multifunctional enzymes. In the face of abiotic stresses such as drought and heavy metal exposure, plants utilize GSTs for detoxification and antioxidant defense, as these enzymes facilitate the conjugation of glutathione (GSH) with toxic compounds. Specific details of this process, however, remain unknown. This study identified 118 Avena sativa GST (AsGST) genes within the A. sativa genome and classified them into five subfamilies: Tau, Phi, Zeta, Lambda, and EF1Bγ. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that AsGSTs exhibit significant similarity to corresponding GST categories in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, indicating a possible common ancestor. Gene structure and conserved motif analysis demonstrated that AsGST genes within the same subfamily shares similarities in the number and positioning of exons and introns, as well as in motif composition, suggesting that these genes may perform analogous biological functions in A. sativa. The promoter regions of the identified genes are enriched with various cis-acting elements that play roles in plant growth and development, stress response, and hormone signaling. Transcriptomic analysis and real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) validation indicated that the expression of four AsGST genes (AsGSTU12, AsGSTU13, AsGSTU14, and AsGSTU15) was significantly up-regulated in the roots of A. sativa under both PEG-induced drought stress and CdCl This study systematically described the GST gene family in A. sativa, characterized its expression patterns and potential functions in response to drought and cadmium stress, and confirmed the essential role of the AsGST gene family in mediating stress responses. The findings enhance our understanding of the mechanisms underlying stress tolerance and offer valuable genetic resources for breeding stress-tolerant A. sativa. The work also provides a theoretical framework and identifies gene targets for the development of stress-resistant A. sativa varieties.
Lodging has become an important factor limiting oats production. To understand the relationship between oat lodging and stem growth, we selected three oat cultivars with different lodging resistance traits and conducted a detailed analysis of their stem physicochemical properties, and transcriptome sequencing on them at different growth stages were performed. Important plant characteristics like: length of the second stem internode, stem wall thickness, breaking force, mechanical strength, soluble sugar, starch, lignin, and silicon content were closely related to oat lodging performance. With the growth of the second stem internode at the base of oats, the number of coexpressed differentially expressed genes (DEGs) increased. And DEGs were specifically enriched in starch and sucrose metabolism, phenylpropanoidbiosynthesis, MAPK signaling pathway-plant and carbon metabolism. There were many TF family types among the different comparison groups, and p450, Myb_DNA-binding, WRKY, and AP2 families accounted for the most. Additionally, there was a specific high expression of genes related to the synthesis of cellulose(CesA9, CesA7, and CesA4) and lignin (CCR1, 4CL8, and 4CL3) in lodgingresistant cultivar and middle lodging-resistant cultivar. WGCNA analysis identified genes closely related to lodging resistance, namely MBF1c, SKP1, and CAND1, which were specifically up-regulated on the 35th day of growth in the second stem internode of the highly resistant 'LENA'. These genes can all serve as positive regulatory factors for oat lodging. Ultimately, our work analyzed the transcriptional network regulatory relationships, laying the foundation for elucidating the physiological and genetic mechanisms of oat lodging resistance, and providing excellent genetic resources for oat and other crop breeding.
Seed priming is an effective way to activate defense mechanisms before germination, enhancing seed vigor and stress resistance. Ascorbic acid (AsA) is an important signaling molecule that plays a crucial role in balancing cellular reactive oxygen species. However, whether AsA priming can enhance seed vigor in oat (Avena sativa) and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study primed aged seeds (controlled deterioration at 45°C for 5 days) with 1.5 mM AsA for 24 h. Primed seeds were then sampled after 36 h of imbibition for seed assays. Significant increases in germination percentage, vigor index, shoot and root length, coupled with a significant reduction in mean germination time, demonstrated that AsA priming effectively restored seed vigor. Ultrastructural observations of mitochondria isolated from embryos presented that AsA priming repaired structural damage in aged seeds, with intact double membranes and clear internal cristae observed. Excessive H
Phosphorus (P) and water are essential for plant growth and development, exerting a significant influence on global crop production. The phosphate transporter (PHT) gene family plays a pivotal role in phosphate (Pi) uptake, transport, and homeostasis under diverse environmental conditions. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive genome-wide identification and characterization of the PHT gene family in Avena sativa. A total of 32 non-redundant AsPHT genes were identified in the OT3098 genome, classified into two subfamilies: AsPHT1 (21 genes) and AsPHO (11 genes). AsPHT1 proteins were predominantly hydrophobic with one or two exons, whereas AsPHO proteins were hydrophilic, exhibiting a more complex structure with 13-15 exons. Cis-regulatory element analysis revealed an abundance of hormone- and stress-responsive elements in the promoters of AsPHT genes, indicating their potential roles in adaptive responses to Pi and water deficiency. Gene expression profiling under low Pi and drought conditions demonstrated differential expression of 22 AsPHT genes in roots and leaves at the seedling stage, with distinct responses to the two stresses, highlighting the functional diversity of the AsPHT gene family. These findings provide valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying Pi and water acquisition in oats and offer potential applications for developing varieties with enhanced Pi use efficiency and drought tolerance.
Soil salinity is among the crucial factors influencing agricultural productivity of crops, including oat. The respiratory metabolic pathways are of great significance for plants to adapt to salt stress, but current research is limited and there are few reports on salt-tolerant crops such as oat, which is necessary to conduct in-depth research. In this study, we conducted a pot experiment to determine the effects of salt stress on oat root growth and respiratory metabolism. Three salt stress levels-control (CK), moderate, and severe-were applied to compare the salt tolerance of the salt-tolerant cultivar Bai2 and the salt-sensitive cultivar Bai5. We selected oat roots at the seedling stage as the research focus and analyzed fresh root samples using an Oxytherm liquid-phase oxygen electrode, a digital scanner, and proteomics. The results showed that with an increased concentration of salt stress, the dry and fresh weight, root-shoot ratio, total root length, root surface area, root volume, and average diameter of the two oat cultivars showed a decreasing trend. Compared with CK, the total root respiration rate of Bai2 under moderate and severe stress decreased by 15.6% and 28%, respectively, and that of Bai5 decreased by 70.4% and 79.0%, respectively. After quantitative analysis of 18 oat root samples from the 2 cultivars using the label-free method, 7174 differential proteins were identified and 63 differential proteins were obtained, which involved 7 functional categories. In total, 111 differential proteins were specifically expressed in the root of the salt-tolerant cultivar Bai2, involving 12 functional categories. Through interaction network analysis, the proteins differentially expressed between the salt treatment and CK groups of the salt-tolerant cultivar Bai2 were analyzed. In total, five types of differentially expressed proteins interacting with each other were detected; these mainly involved antioxidant enzymes, pyruvate metabolism, glycolysis, tricarboxylic acid cycle, and energy metabolism pathways. Salt stress promoted the respiration rate of oat root glycolysis. The respiration rate of the tricarboxylic acid pathway decreased with increased salt stress concentration, while the respiration rate of the pentose phosphate pathway increased. Compared with CK, following moderate and severe salt stress treatment, alcohol dehydrogenase activity in Bai2 increased by 384% and 145%, respectively, while that of Bai5 increased by 434% and 157%, respectively. At increased salt stress concentrations, Bai2 mainly used pyruvate-ethanol fermentation for anaerobic respiration, while Bai5 mainly used pyruvate-lactic acid fermentation for anaerobic respiration. This significant discovery revealed for the first time from the perspective of respiratory metabolism that different salt-tolerant oat cultivars adapt to salt stress in different ways to maintain normal growth and development. The experimental results provide new insights into plant adaptation to salt stress from the perspective of respiratory metabolism.
Persistent activation of drought tolerance is detrimental to plant growth and development. However, the mechanism that balances plant drought tolerance and growth remains largely undetermined. Here, we constructed a comprehensive co-expression network comprising 84 transcriptome datasets associated with growth and drought tolerance in oats. Moreover, 84 functional modules and many candidate genes related to drought tolerance and growth were identified. A key candidate gene, AsHSFA2c was involved in fine-tuning the balance between drought tolerance and growth by inhibiting plant growth and positively regulating drought tolerance. Then, we determined AsDOF25 as an upstream positive regulator and AsAGO1 as the downstream target gene of AsHSFA2c. These results imply that the AsDOF25-AsHSFA2c-AsAGO1 module contributes to the balance between drought tolerance and growth in oats. Our findings and resources will facilitate the identification of key genes related to drought tolerance and further studies of the genetic basis underlying strong drought tolerance in oats.
Grain development influences the composition of oat (Avena sativa L.), which impacts the nutritional and processing value of the grains. This study explored the molecular mechanisms underlying oat grain development in two oat varieties - Bannister (10.0 % oil) and Bilby (7.5 % oil), with a focus on lipid biosynthesis, which has not been previously studied at protein level. Matrix-assisted laser desorption and ionisation mass spectrometry imaging (MALDI-MSI) of developing grains revealed oil distribution within the developing endosperm, where starch is also expected to accumulate. Shotgun lipidomics and proteomics were performed throughout development (from 4 to 20 days after pollination (DAP) and at maturity) to examine the temporal dynamics of lipid biosynthesis. More than 4500 protein groups were identified. Clustering of proteins based on their temporal expression patterns revealed the upregulation of major synthesis pathways from 8 DAP onwards, marking a critical stage in oat grain development. Triacylglycerol (TG) abundances strongly correlated with the expressions of enzymes involved in fatty acid synthesis (FAS), highlighting a bottleneck pathway in oat oil synthesis. Bannister displayed higher glycerolipid accumulation than Bilby, which was linked to the upregulation of enzymes in FAS and TG assembly pathways. Differences in the levels of lipid and starch synthesis enzymes between the two varieties exemplified a possible divergence in metabolic priorities during seed development. These findings provide insights into the regulation of lipid synthesis pathways in oats and lay a foundation for future studies investigating factors influencing grain composition to meet the future needs of an expanding industry.
Saline-alkali stress is a major factor limiting the growth of oats. Sugar is the primary carbon and energy source in plants which regulates plant development and growth by regulating enzyme activity and gene expression. Sucrose, glucose, and fructose are ubiquitous plant-soluble sugars that act as signalling molecules in the transcriptional regulation of various metabolic and defence-related genes. In this study, soluble sugars, fructose, sucrose, and starch contents were measured, and transcriptomics was used to determine the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in saline-sensitive and saline-tolerant oats after 6, 12, 24, and 48 h. DEGs annotated to carbohydrates were selected using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes. DEGs involved in carbohydrate metabolism were mainly enriched in the glycolysis/gluconeogenesis and pentose phosphate pathways, fructose and mannose metabolism, and starch and sucrose metabolism. In this study, oats with different salinity tolerances were used to determine sugar contents under four salinity stress durations, and transcriptome sequencing was used to explore the regulatory mechanism of sugars and provide a reference for elucidating the sugar signalling regulatory mechanism under abiotic stress.
The objective of this study was to investigate the protective effects of oat β-glucan (OβG) on yeast subjected to freeze-thaw cycle-induced stress. A range of analytical techniques were employed to identify the underlying molecular mechanisms, including flow cytometry, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, and quantitative real-time PCR. Following three freeze-thaw cycles, the survival rate of yeast that had been supplemented with 0.5 % OβG was found to be significantly higher than that of the control sample, increasing from 36.21 % to 56.81 %. The addition of 0.5 % OβG resulted in a remarkable reduction in apoptosis, an improvement in cell membrane integrity, and an increase in superoxide dismutase, catalase activity and glutathione content compared to the control group. Furthermore, a noticeable increment in the intracellular trehalose content was observed, from 4.10 mg/g to 7.48 mg/g. OβG modulated the expression of trehalose metabolism-related genes (ATH1, NTH1, NTH2) throughout the freeze-thaw cycle. Therefore, it could be concluded that OβG protected yeast cells against excessive reactive oxygen species and minimised oxidative damage to cellular membranes by upregulating antioxidant enzyme activity and total antioxidant capacity. Moreover, the supplementation of OβG was also found to be effective in increasing intracellular trehalose levels, thereby enhancing the freezing resistance of yeast cells.
Winter wild oat (Avena sterilis subsp. ludoviciana (Durieu) Gillet & Magne) has been considered the most common and troublesome weed in wheat fields of Iran. The widespread and continuous use of herbicides has led to the emergence and development of resistant biotypes in A. ludoviciana, making it one of the most important herbicide-resistant weeds within field crops. Considering the importance of understanding the mechanisms underlying resistance to herbicides and identifying key proteins involved in the response to Acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (ACCase) and Acetolactate synthase (ALS) inhibitor herbicides in A. ludoviciana. This study aimed to identify the proteins involved in herbicide resistance in A. ludoviciana using the Isobaric Tags for Relative and Absolute Quantification (iTRAQ) technique. In this study, a total of 18,313 peptides were identified with ≤ 0.01 FDR, which could be classified into 484 protein groups. Additionally, 138 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in the resistant biotype (R), while 93 DEPs were identified in the susceptible biotype (S). Gene Ontology (GO) analysis revealed that these DEPs mainly consisted of proteins related to photosynthesis, respiration, amino acid synthesis and translation, secondary metabolite biosynthesis, defense proteins, and detoxification. Furthermore, enrichment pathway analysis using Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) showed that the most important pathways included metabolic pathways, carbohydrate metabolism, secondary metabolites, amino acid synthesis, and photosynthesis. The function of DEPs indicated that some proteins, such as cytochrome P450, play a direct role in herbicide detoxification. Overall, the results of this study demonstrated the complex response of the resistant biotype to herbicides and its ability to increase antioxidant capacity through up-regulated detoxification proteins, particularly cytochrome P450 (Q6YSB4), and defense proteins, particularly superoxide dismutase (Q0DRV6) and polyamine oxidase (Q7XR46). In the resistant A. ludoviciana populations, in addition to the activation of enzymatic and non-enzymatic defense systems, other strategies such as reduced photosynthesis and respiration, increased transcription and translation activity, enhanced lipid metabolism, regulation of cellular processes and homeostasis, and up-regulation of proteins associated with signaling and ion channels play a role in resistance to herbicide. Overall these findings provide new insights into the role of different proteins in resistance to herbicides and contribute to a comprehensive understanding of herbicide resistance in A. ludoviciana.
Lectin receptor-like kinases (LecRLKs) are membrane-bound receptor genes found in many plant species. They are involved in perceiving stresses and responding to the environment. Oat (
Phosphorus is indispensable to plant growth and development. Soil phosphorus deficiency poses a substantial constraint on crop yield. SPXs play pivotal roles in phosphate transport and absorption in plants. Yet, the functions of SPXs of oat
A repeatable and reliable reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) experiment depends upon proper reference genes (RGs) selection. This study aims to examine the expression stability of nine candidate RGs for the Avena sativa - Blumeria graminis experimental setup. B. graminis causes powdery mildew - the most devastating and economically important fungal disease of crops worldwide. RGs were evaluated in Pm3 and Pm4 oat differential lines and the susceptible cultivar Fuchs during compatible and incompatible interactions with different pathotypes of Blumeria graminis f. sp. avenae in six-time points post inoculation. The identification of genes exhibiting high expression stability was done by four algorithms (geNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper and deltaCt). The results indicated that regardless of the analysed group, two most stable RGs are required for data normalization. The most sufficient RGs combination was HNR (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein 27 C) + EIF4A (eukaryotic initiation factor 4 A‑3). ARF (ADP‑ribosylation factor) could also be pondered as demonstrating high expression stability. These genes can be considered universal candidates for RT-qPCR normalization to study interaction with B. graminis as well as Puccinia coronata and Puccinia graminis, as confirmed by our previous research. The worst candidate for data standardisation was TUA (α- tubulin). To our best knowledge, this is the first report regarding RGs' selection in this pathosystem. Identified RGs are proper normalisation candidates for gene expression studies in the A. sativa infected by B. graminis as well as other related pathogens.
HD-Zip transcription factors are an important class of plant transcription factors involved in regulating plant growth and development as well as various stress responses. In order to explore the characteristics of oat HD-Zip transcription factors and their transcriptomic expression patterns under abiotic stress, this study identified members of the HD-Zip gene family in the oat genome through bioinformatics methods and analyzed their basic physicochemical properties, evolutionary relationships, conserved structural domains, gene duplication relationships, and expression profiles. 74 HD-Zip gene sequences were identified in the oat genome, unevenly distributed in all chromosomes except the 4D chromosome. The 74 HD-Zip genes can be divided into four subfamilies (HD-Zip Ⅰ-Ⅳ), containing 30 (HD-Zip Ⅰ), 38 (HD-Zip Ⅱ), 4 (HD-Zip III), and 2 (HD-Zip IV) genes, respectively. The grouping of this study is completely consistent with the clustering results of family members in the oat HD-Zip gene phylogenetic tree, further supporting the reliability of the sequence grouping. In addition, there are significant differences in conserved motifs and gene lengths between subfamilies, but they are conserved within the same subfamily. Under drought and salt stress, the expression levels of a large number of oat HD-Zip genes were significantly induced or suppressed, indicating that these HD-Zip genes are likely to be involved in regulating the oat's response to adversity. The results of this study provide excellent candidate HD-Zip genes for the study of oat resistance, and provide a reference for oat gene improvement and genetic breeding.
Wild oat (Avena fatua L.) is a self-pollinating, allohexaploid species in the family Gramineae (grasses), which is a malignant weed that mainly harms crops such as wheat. In recent years, a decline in the control efficiency of flucarbazone-sodium against wild oat has occurred in some regions of China. We identified an ALS-resistant A. fatua population (R population). Whole-plant response assays revealed that the R population exhibited a moderate level of resistance (5.9-fold) to flucarbazone-sodium. Pre-treatment with malathion significantly reduced flucarbazone-sodium resistance in the R population. The known mutation sites and ALS gene relative expression that confer resistance to ALS inhibitor herbicides were not found in R population. Following flucarbazone-sodium treatment, the expression of eight genes related to metabolic enzymes was investigated using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). CYP92A6 and the Aldo/keto reductase family were highly expressed in the R population after the application of flucarbazone-sodium. The mechanism of flucarbazone-sodium resistance in A. fatua is mediated by NTSR, nor TSR. Two genes, CYP92A6 and the Aldo/keto reductase family, were discovered to be possibly related in the metabolism of NTSR in the A. fatua population, justifying more functional studies. The results will serve as a data resource for further studies on the molecular mechanisms of A. fatua to flucarbazone-sodium.
Skeletal muscle performance is influenced by both diet and the mode of exercise, with diet playing a crucial role in individuals' adaptation to exercise training. Our study investigated the interaction of oat bran (OB) diet and moderate intensity exercise training (MIET) on skeletal muscle function and athletic performance. Studies have reinforced the positive association of high-fat diet (HFD) with chronic systemic inflammation and corresponding peripheral skeletal muscle dysfunction during exercise training. OB could alleviate the inflammation, oxidative stress, and energy homeostasis disorder associated with HFD. We observed improvement in mice limb grip strength and endurance treadmill running distance with OB intake, accompanied by regulation of muscle function-related gene expression. OB intensified exercise training-induced carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, as indicated by changes in lactate, fumarate, malate, pyruvate, succinate, and citrate levels. Additionally, specific probiotic genera producing short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) were promoted, while inflammation-related circulating metabolites were significantly decreased with oat bran intake. Our findings suggest interactions between OB and MIET improved HFD-induced skeletal muscle dysfunction on both the phenotype and the related mechanisms. This study is an extension of our previous study on the anti-fatigue effect of oat bran, providing a novel prospective by integrating exercise adaptation, gut microbiota, molecular metabolism and skeletal muscle
Flavonoids in Musaceae are involved in pigmentation and stress responses, including cold resistance, and are a component of the healthy human diet. Identification and analysis of the sequence and copy number of flavonoid biosynthetic genes are valuable for understanding the nature and diversity of flavonoid evolution in Musaceae species. In this study, we identified 71-80 flavonoid biosynthetic genes in chromosome-scale genome sequence assemblies of Musaceae, including those of
Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) serve as calcium ion sensors and play crucial roles in all aspects of plant life cycle. While
The nutritional quality and yield of oats (Avena sativa) are often compromised by plant diseases such as red leaf, powdery mildew, and leaf spot. Sugars Will Eventually be Exported Transporters (SWEETs) are newly identified sugar transporters involved in regulating plant growth and stress responses. However, the roles of SWEET genes in biotic stress responses remain uncharacterized in oats. In this study, 13 AsSWEET genes were identified across nine chromosomes of the oat genome, all of which were predicted to contain seven transmembrane regions. Phylogenetic analysis revealed four clades of AsSWEET proteins, with high homology to SWEET proteins in the Poaceae family. Collinearity analysis demonstrated strong relationships between oat and Zea mays SWEETs. Using subcellular localization prediction tools, AsSWEET proteins were predicted to localize to the plasma membrane. Promoter analysis revealed cis-acting elements associated with light response, growth, and stress regulation. Six AsSWEET proteins were predicted to interact in a network centered on AsSWEET1a and AsSWEET11. Gene expression analysis of two oat varieties, 'ForagePlus' and 'Molasses', indicated significant expression differences in several AsSWEET genes following infection with powdery mildew or leaf spot, including AsSWEET1a, AsSWEET1b, AsSWEET2b, AsSWEET3a, AsSWEET11, and AsSWEET16. These SWEET genes are potential candidates for disease resistance in oats. This study provides a foundation for understanding the regulatory mechanisms of AsSWEET genes, particularly in response to powdery mildew and leaf spot, and offers insights for enhancing oat molecular breeding.
The complex of oat β-glucan (OBG) and flavonoids hampered the digestion of starch-based food and retarded the blood glucose response; however, its effect on gastric emptying and its relative mechanism have not been thoroughly investigated. By using Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR), X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), antioxidant ability, and enzymic inhibitory tests for the characterization and
The endeavour to elevate the nutritional value of oat (Avena sativa) by altering the oil composition and content positions it as an optimal crop for fostering human health and animal feed. However, optimization of oil traits on oat through conventional breeding is challenging due to its quantitative nature and complexity of the oat genome. We introduced two constructs containing three key genes integral to lipid biosynthesis and/or regulatory pathways from Arabidopsis (AtWRI1 and AtDGAT1) and Sesame (SiOLEOSIN) into the oat cultivar 'Park' to modify the fatty acid composition. Four homozygous transgenic lines were generated with a transformation frequency of 7%. The expression of these introduced genes initiated a comprehensive transcriptional reprogramming in oat grains and leaves. Notably, endogenous DGAT, WRI1 and OLEOSIN genes experienced upregulation, while genes associated with fatty acid biosynthesis, such as KASII, SACPD and FAD2, displayed antagonistic expression patterns between oat grains and leaves. Transcriptomic analyses highlighted significant differential gene expression, particularly enriched in lipid metabolism. Comparing the transgenic oat plants with the wild type, we observed a remarkable increase of up to 34% in oleic acid content in oat grains. Furthermore, there were marked improvements in the total oil content in oat leaves, as well as primary metabolites changes in both oat grains and leaves, while maintaining homeostasis in the transgenic oat plants. These findings underscore the effectiveness of genetic engineering in manipulating oat oil composition and content, offering promising implications for human consumption and animal feeding through oat crop improvement programmes.
The Domain of unknown function 679 membrane protein (DMP) family, which is unique to plants, plays a crucial role in reproductive development, stress response and aging. A comprehensive study was conducted to identify the DMP gene members of oat (Avena sativa) and to investigate their structural features and tissue-specific expression profiles. Utilizing whole genome and transcriptome data, we analyzed the physicochemical properties, gene structure, cis-acting elements, phylogenetic relationships, conserved structural (CS) domains, CS motifs and expression patterns of the AsDMP family in A. sativa. The DMP family genes of A. sativa were distributed across 17 chromosomal scaffolds, encompassing a total of 33 members. Based on phylogenetic relationships, the AsDMP genes were classified into five distinct subfamilies. The gene structure also suggests that A. sativa may have undergone an intron loss event during its evolution. Covariance analysis indicates that genome-wide duplication and segmental duplication may be the major contributor to the expansion of the AsDMP gene family. Ka/Ks selective pressure analysis of the AsDMP gene family suggests that DMP gene pairs are generally conserved over evolutionary time. The upstream promoters of these genes contain several cis-acting elements, suggesting a potential role in abiotic stress responses and hormone induction. Transcriptome data revealed that the expression patterns of the DMP genes are involved in tissue and organ development. In this study, the AsDMP genes (AsDMP1, AsDMP19, and AsDMP22) were identified as potential regulators of seed senescence in A. sativa. These genes could serve as candidates for breeding studies focused on seed longevity and anti-aging germplasm in A. sativa. The study provides valuable insights into the regulatory mechanisms of the AsDMP gene family in the aging process of A. sativa germplasm and offers theoretical support for further function investigation into the functions of AsDMP genes and the molecular mechanisms underlying seed anti-aging. This study identified the AsDMP genes as being involved in the aging process of A. sativa seeds, marking the first report on the potential role of DMP genes in seed aging for A. sativa.
The alternative oxidase (AOX), a common terminal oxidase in the electron transfer chain (ETC) of plants, plays a crucial role in stress resilience and plant growth and development. Oat (
Oats, a highly nutritious cereal known for their health benefits, contain various macromolecules of significant biological value, including abundant and highly digestible proteins. Despite their importance, oat proteins have not been extensively studied. Here, we present a complete set of the expressed globulins genes, which code for the main storage protein in oats as well as their chromosomal positions. Published expressed sequence tags for globulins were used as queries in the Sang oat genome. In addition, globulin proteins were fractionated from oat flour by solvent extraction based on differential solubility with other classes of cereal proteins. The protein fractions were separated by gel electrophoresis and analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry to confirm their identity and expression in seed. In total 32 globulin gene sequences were identified on the oat genome. Out of these, the expression on RNA level could be confirmed and 27 were also detected as expressed proteins by MS. Our results provide the most extensive set of salt-soluble oat globulin sequences to date, paving the way for further understanding their implications for human nutrition. In addition, a simple methodology to fractionate oat proteins is presented.
Avena fatua L. is one of the most damaging and malignant weeds in wheat fields in China. Fenoxaprop-P-ethyl, mesosulfuron-methyl, and isoproturon, which belong to Acetyl-CoA carboxylase- (ACCase), acetolactate synthase- (ALS), and photosystem II- (PS II) inhibitors, respectively, are commonly used in wheat fields and have a long history of use on A. fatua. An A. fatua population (R) resistant to fenoxaprop-P-ethyl, mesosulfuron-methyl, and isoproturon was collected from a wheat field in 2020. This study explored the mechanisms of target site resistance (TSR) and non-target site resistance (NTSR) in the multi-resistant A. fatua. Whole-plant bioassays showed that the R population had evolved high resistance to fenoxaprop-P-ethyl and moderate resistance to mesosulfuron-methyl and isoproturon. However, no mutations were detected in the ACCase, ALS, or psbA genes in the R population. In addition, the ACCase and ALS gene expression levels in the R group were significantly higher than those in the susceptible population (S) after treatment with fenoxaprop-P-ethyl or mesosulfuron-methyl. In vitro ACCase and ALS activity assays showed that ACCase and ALS from the R population were insensitive to fenoxaprop and mesosulfuron-methyl, respectively, with resistance indices 6.12-fold and 17.46-fold higher than those of the S population. Furthermore, pretreatment with P450 inhibitors significantly (P < 0.05) reversed the multi-resistant A. fatua's resistance to fenoxaprop-P-ethyl, mesosulfuron-methyl, and isoproturon. Sethoxydim, flucarbazone‑sodium, chlortoluron, and cypyrafluone were effective in controlling multi-resistance A. fatua. Therefore, the overexpression of ACCase and ALS to synthesize sufficient herbicide-targeting proteins, along with P450-mediated metabolism, conferred resistance to fenoxaprop-P-ethyl, mesosulfuron-methyl, and isoproturon in the R population.
The myeloblastosis (MYB) transcription factor (TF) family is one of the largest and most important TF families in plants, playing an important role in a life cycle and abiotic stress. In this study, 268 Avena sativa MYB (AsMYB) TFs from Avena sativa were identified and named according to their order of location on the chromosomes, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis of the AsMYB and Arabidopsis MYB proteins were performed to determine their homology, the AsMYB1R proteins were classified into 5 subgroups, and the AsMYB2R proteins were classified into 34 subgroups. The conserved domains and gene structure were highly conserved among the subgroups. Eight differentially expressed AsMYB genes were screened in the transcriptome of transcriptional data and validated through RT-qPCR. Three genes in AsMYB2R subgroup, which are related to the shortened growth period, stomatal closure, and nutrient and water transport by PEG-induced drought stress, were investigated in more details. The AsMYB1R subgroup genes LHY and REV 1, together with GST, regulate ROS homeostasis to ensure ROS signal transduction and scavenge excess ROS to avoid oxidative damage. The results of this study confirmed that the AsMYB TFs family is involved in the homeostatic regulation of ROS under drought stress. This lays the foundation for further investigating the involvement of the AsMYB TFs family in regulating A. sativa drought response mechanisms.
Drought stress affects plant photosynthesis, leading to a reduction in the quality and yield of crop production. Non-foliar organs play a complementary role in photosynthesis during plant growth and development and are important sources of energy. However, there are limited studies on the performance of non-foliar organs under drought stress. The photosynthetic-responsive differences of oat spikelet organs (glumes, lemmas and paleas) and flag leaves to drought stress during the grain-filling stage were examined. Under drought stress, photosynthetic performance of glume is more stable. Intercellular CO
Optogenetics' advancement has made light induction attractive for controlling biological processes due to its advantages of fine-tunability, reversibility, and low toxicity. The lactose operon induction system, commonly used in Escherichia coli, relies on the binding of lactose or isopropyl β-d-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) to the lactose repressor protein LacI, playing a pivotal role in controlling the lactose operon. Here, we harnessed the light-responsive light-oxygen-voltage 2 (LOV2) domain from Avena sativa phototropin 1 as a tool for light control and engineered LacI into two light-responsive variants, OptoLacIL and OptoLacID. These variants exhibit direct responsiveness to light and darkness, respectively, eliminating the need for IPTG. Building upon OptoLacI, we constructed two light-controlled E. coli gene expression systems, OptoE.coliLight system and OptoE.coliDark system. These systems enable bifunctional gene expression regulation in E. coli through light manipulation and show superior controllability compared to IPTG-induced systems. We applied the OptoE.coliDark system to protein production and metabolic flux control. Protein production levels are comparable to those induced by IPTG. Notably, the titers of dark-induced production of 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO) and ergothioneine exceeded 110% and 60% of those induced by IPTG, respectively. The development of OptoLacI will contribute to the advancement of the field of optogenetic protein engineering, holding substantial potential applications across various fields.
A gene-to-metabolite approach afforded new insights regarding defence mechanisms in oat plants that can be incorporated into plant breeding programmes for the selection of markers and genes related to disease resistance. Monitoring metabolite levels and changes therein can complement and corroborate transcriptome (mRNA) data on plant-pathogen interactions, thus revealing mechanisms involved in pathogen attack and host defence. A multi-omics approach thus adds new layers of information such as identifying metabolites with antimicrobial properties, elucidating metabolomic profiles of infected and non-infected plants, and reveals pathogenic requirements for infection and colonisation. In this study, two oat cultivars (Dunnart and SWK001) were inoculated with Pseudomonas syringae pathovars, pathogenic and non-pathogenic on oat. Following inoculation, metabolites were extracted with methanol from leaf tissues at 2, 4 and 6 days post-infection and analysed by multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) on a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer system. Relatedly, mRNA was isolated at the same time points, and the cDNA analysed by quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) for expression levels of selected gene transcripts associated with avenanthramide (Avn) biosynthesis. The targeted amino acids, hydroxycinnamic acids and Avns were successfully quantified. Distinct cultivar-specific differences in the metabolite responses were observed in response to pathogenic and non-pathogenic strains. Trends in aromatic amino acids and hydroxycinnamic acids seem to indicate stronger activation and flux through these pathways in Dunnart as compared to SWK001. A positive correlation between hydroxycinnamoyl-CoA:hydroxyanthranilate N-hydroxycinnamoyl transferase (HHT) gene expression and the abundance of Avn A in both cultivars was documented. However, transcript profiling of selected genes involved in Avn synthesis did not reveal a clear pattern to distinguish between the tolerant and susceptible cultivars.
SQUAMOSA promoter binding-like proteins (SPLs) are important transcription factors that influence growth phase transition and reproduction in plants. SPLs are targeted by miR156 but the SPL/miR156 module is completely unknown in oat. We identified 28 oat SPL genes (AsSPLs) distributed across all 21 oat chromosomes except for 4C and 6D. The oat- SPL gene family represented six of eight SPL phylogenetic groups, with no AsSPLs in groups 3 and 7. A novel oat miR156 (AsmiR156) family with 21 precursors divided into 7 groups was characterized. A total of 16 AsSPLs were found to be targeted by AsmiR156. Intriguingly, AsSPL3s showed high transcript abundance during early inflorescence (GS-54), as compared to the lower abundance of AsmiR156, indicating their role in reproductive development. Unravelling the SPL/miR156 regulatory hub and alterations in expression patterns of AsSPLs could provide an essential toolbox for genetic improvement in the cultivated oat.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) accounts for 30% of all cancer cases worldwide and is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths. CRC develops over a long period of time, and in the early stages, pathological changes can be mitigated through nutritional interventions using bioactive plant compounds. Our study aims to determine the effect of highly purified oat beta-glucan on an animal CRC model. The study was performed on forty-five male Sprague-Dawley rats with azoxymethane-induced early-stage CRC, which consumed feed containing 1% or 3% low molar mass oat beta-glucan (OBG) for 8 weeks. In the large intestine, morphological changes, CRC signaling pathway genes (RT-PCR), and proteins (Western blot, immunohistochemistry) expression were analyzed. Whole blood hematology and blood redox status were also performed. Results indicated that the histologically confirmed CRC condition led to a downregulation of the WNT/β-catenin pathway, along with alterations in oncogenic and tumor suppressor gene expression. However, OBG significantly modulated these effects, with the 3% OBG showing a more pronounced impact. Furthermore, CRC rats exhibited elevated levels of oxidative stress and antioxidant enzyme activity in the blood, along with decreased white blood cell and lymphocyte counts. Consumption of OBG at any dose normalized these parameters. The minimal effect of OBG in the physiological intestine and the high activity in the pathological condition suggest that OBG is both safe and effective in early-stage CRC.
Oat ( In this study, AQP genes ( In this study, a total of 45 AQP genes ( The findings of this study provide a comprehensive list of members and their sequence characteristics of the
Traditional spring-summer sown oat is a typical long-day crop that cannot head under short-day conditions. The creation of photoperiod-insensitive oats overcomes this limitation. MADS-box genes are a class of transcription factors involved in plant flowering signal transduction regulation. Previous transcriptome studies have shown that MADS-box genes may be related to the oat photoperiod. Putative MADS-box genes were identified in the whole genome of oat. Bioinformatics methods were used to analyze their classification, conserved motifs, gene structure, evolution, chromosome localization, collinearity and In total, sixteen
Neurodegenerative disorders pose a substantial risk to human health, and oxidative stress, cholinergic dysfunction, and inflammation are the major contributors. The purpose of this study was to explore the neuroprotective effects of oat protein hydrolysate (OPH) and identify peptides with neuroprotective potential. This study is the first to isolate and identify OPH peptides with neuroprotective potential, including DFVADHPFLF (DF-10), HGQNFPIL (HL-8), and RDFPITWPW (RW-9), by screening via peptidomes and molecular-docking simulations. These peptides showed positive effects on the activity of antioxidant enzymes and thus reduced oxidative stress through regulation of Nrf2-keap1/HO-1 gene expression in vitro and in vivo. The peptides also significantly ameliorated scopolamine-induced cognitive impairment in the zebrafish model. This improvement was correlated with mitigation of MDA levels, AChE activity, and levels of inflammatory cytokines in the brains of zebrafish. Furthermore, these peptides significantly upregulated the mRNA expression of Bdnf, Nrf2, and Erg1 in the brains of zebrafish with neurodegenerative disorders. Collectively, oat peptides have potential for use as active components in nutraceutical applications for the prevention of neurodegenerative diseases.
Salinity stress has detrimental effects on various aspects of plant development. However, our understanding of strategies to mitigate these effects in crop plants remains limited. Recent research has shed light on the potential of sodium acetate as a mitigating component against salinity stress in several plant species. Here, we show the role of acetate sodium in counteracting the adverse effects on oat (Avena sativa) plants subjected to NaCl-induced salinity stress, including its impact on plant morphology, photosynthetic parameters, and gene expression related to photosynthesis and antioxidant capacity, ultimately leading to osmoprotection. The five-week experiment involved subjecting oat plants to four different conditions: water, salt (NaCl), sodium acetate, and a combination of salt and sodium acetate. The presence of NaCl significantly inhibited plant growth and root elongation, disrupted chlorophylls and carotenoids content, impaired chlorophyll fluorescence, and down-regulated genes associated with the plant antioxidant defense system. Furthermore, our findings reveal that when stressed plants were treated with sodium acetate, it partially reversed these adverse effects across all analyzed parameters. This reversal was particularly evident in the increased content of proline, thereby ensuring osmoprotection for oat plants, even under stressful conditions. These results provide compelling evidence regarding the positive impact of sodium acetate on various plant development parameters, with a particular focus on the enhancement of photosynthetic activity.
Wild oat (Avena fatua L.) is a common and problematic weed in wheat fields in China. In recent years, farmers found it increasingly difficult to control A. fatua using acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACCase)-inhibiting herbicides. The purpose of this study was to identify the molecular basis of clodinafop-propargyl resistance in A. fatua. In comparison to the S1496 population, whole dose response studies revealed that the R1623 and R1625 populations were 71.71- and 67.76-fold resistant to clodinafop-propargyl, respectively. The two resistant A. fatua populations displayed high resistance to fenoxaprop-p-ethyl (APP) and low resistance to clethodim (CHD) and pinoxaden (PPZ), but they were still sensitive to the ALS inhibitors mesosulfuron-methyl and pyroxsulam. An Ile-2041-Asn mutation was identified in both resistant individual plants. The copy number and relative expression of the ACCase gene in the resistant population were not significantly different from those in the S1496 population. Under the application of 2160 g ai ha
Hemicelluloses constitute approximately one-third of the plant cell wall and can be used as a dietary fiber and food additive, and as raw materials for biofuels. Although genes involved in hemicelluloses synthesis have been investigated in some model plants, no comprehensive analysis has been conducted in common oat at present. In this study, we identified and systematically analyzed the cellulose synthase-like gene (Csl) family members in common oat and investigated them using various bioinformatics tools. The results showed that there are 76 members of the oat Csl gene family distributed on 17 chromosomes, and phylogenetic analysis indicated that the 76 Csl genes belong to the CslA, CslC, CslD, CslE, CslF, CslH, and CslJ subfamilies. A total of 14 classes of cis-acting elements were identified in the promoter regions, including hormone response, light response, cell development, and defense stress elements. The collinearity analysis identified 28 pairs of segmentally duplicated genes, most of which were found on chromosomes 2D and 6A. Expression pattern analysis showed that oat Csl genes display strong tissue-specific expression; of the 76 Csl genes, 33 were significantly up-regulated in stems and 30 were up-regulated in immature seeds. The expression of most members of the AsCsl gene family is repressed by abiotic stress, while the expression of some members is up-regulated by light. Immunoelectron microscopy shows that the product of AsCsl61, a member of CslF subfamily, mediates (1,3; 1,4)-β-D-glucan synthesis in transgenic Arabidopsis. These findings provide a fundamental understanding of the structural, functional, and evolutionary features of the oat Csl genes and may contribute to our general understanding of hemicellulose biosynthesis. Moreover, this information will be helpful in designing experiments for genetic manipulation of mixed-linkage glucan (MLG) synthesis with the goal of quality improvement in oat.
Through the degradation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), different antioxidant enzymes, such as catalase (CAT), defend organisms against oxidative stress. These enzymes are crucial to numerous biological functions, like plant development and defense against several biotic and abiotic stresses. However, despite the major economic importance of
Homogentisate phytyltransferase (HPT) is the critical enzyme for the biosynthesis of tocopherols (vitamin E), which are the major lipid-soluble antioxidants and help plants adapt to various stress conditions. HPT is generally strictly conserved in various plant genomes; however, a divergent lineage HPT2 was identified recently in some Triticeae species. The molecular function and transcriptional profiles of HPT2 remain to be characterized. In this study, we performed comprehensive transcriptome data mining of HPT1 and HPT2 in different tissues and stages of barley (Hordeum vulgare), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and oat (Avena sativa), followed by qRT-PCR experiments on HPT1 and HPT2 in different tissues of barley and wheat. We found that the common HPT1 genes (HvHPT1, TaHPT1s, and AsHPT1s) displayed a conserved transcriptional pattern in the three target species and were universally transcribed in various tissues, with a notable preference in leaf. In contrast, HPT2 genes (HvHPT2, TaHPT2, and AsHPT2) were specifically transcribed in spike (developmentally up-regulated) and shoot apex tissues, displaying a divergent tissue-specific pattern. Cis-regulatory elements prediction in the promoter region identified common factors related to light-, plant hormone-, low temperature-, drought- and defense- responses in both HPT1s and HPT2s. We observed the transcriptional up-regulation of HvHPT1 and HvHPT2 under various stress conditions, supporting their conserved function in environmental adaption. We detected a clear, relaxed selection pressure in the HPT2 lineage, consistent with the predicted evolution pattern following gene duplication. Protein structural modelling and substrate docking analyses identified putative catalytic amino acid residues for HvHPT1 and HvHPT2, which are strictly conserved and consistent with their function in vitamin E biosynthesis. We confirmed the presence of two lineages of HPT in Triticeae and Aveninae, including hexaploid oat, and characterized their transcriptional profiles based on transcriptome and qRT-PCR data. HPT1s were ubiquitously transcribed in various tissues, whilst HPT2s were highly expressed in specific stages and tissue. The active transcription of HPT2s, together with its conserved cis-elements and protein structural features, support HPT2s' role in tocopherol production in Triticeae. This study is the first protein structural analysis on the membrane-bound plant HPTs and provides valuable insights into its catalytic mechanism.
Metallothioneins (MTs) are a family of small proteins rich in cysteine residues. The sulfhydryl group of metallothioneins can bind to metal ions, maintaining metal homeostasis and protecting the cells from damage caused by toxic heavy metals. Moreover, MTs can function as reactive oxygen species scavengers since cysteine thiols undergo reversible and irreversible oxidation. Here, we identified 21 metallothionein genes (
Abscisic acid (ABA) is a phytohormone that plays an important role in plant growth and development. Meanwhile, ABA also plays a key role in the plant response to abiotic stressors such as drought and high salinity. The pyrabactin resistance 1-like (PYR/PYL) protein family of ABA receptors is involved in the initial step of ABA signal transduction. However, no systematic studies of the PYL family in "
Diabetes is one of the major global public health problems. Our previous results found that oat β-D-glucan exhibited ameliorative effects on diabetic mice, but the underlying mechanism is unclear. The present study indicates that oat β-D-glucan increased glycogen content, decreased glycogen synthase (GS) phosphorylation and increased hepatic glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β) phosphorylation for glycogen synthesis via PI3K/AKT/GSK3-mediated GS activation. Moreover, oat β-D-glucan inhibited gluconeogenesis through the PI3K/AKT/Foxo1-mediated phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) decrease. In addition, oat β-D-glucan enhanced glucose catabolism through elevated protein levels of COQ9, UQCRC2, COXIV and ATP5F complexes involved in oxidative phosphorylation, as well as that of TFAM, a key regulator of mitochondrial gene expression. Importantly, our results showed that oat β-D-glucan maintained hepatic glucose balance via TLR4-mediated intracellular signal. After TLR4 blocking with anti-TLR4 antibody, oat β-D-glucan had almost no effect on high glucose-induced HepG2 cells. These data revealed that oat β-D-glucan maintains glucose balance by regulating the TLR4/PI3K/AKT signal pathway.
Abiotic stresses have deleterious effects on seed germination and seedling establishment, leading to significant crop yield losses. Adverse environmental conditions can cause the accumulation of methylglyoxal (MG) within plant cells, which can negatively impact plant growth and development. The glyoxalase system, which consists of the glutathione (GSH)-dependent enzymes glyoxalase I (GLX1) and glyoxalase II (GLX2), as well as the GSH-independent glyoxalase III (GLX3 or DJ-1), plays a crucial role in detoxifying MG. However, genome-wide analysis of glyoxalase genes has not been performed for one of the agricultural important species, oat (
GRAS transcription factors play a variety of functions in plant growth and development and are named after the first three transcription factors GAI (GIBBERRELLICACIDINSENSITIVE), RGA (REPRESSOROFGAI), and SCR (SCARECROW) found in this family. Oat ( In order to understand the information and expression pattern of oat GRAS family members, we identified the GRAS members and analyzed their phylogenetic relationship, gene structure, and expression pattern in oat by bioinformatics technology. The results showed that the oat GRAS family consists of 30 members, and most of the AsGRAS proteins were neutral or acidic proteins. The phylogenetic tree divided the oat GRAS members into four subfamilies, and each subfamily has different conservative domains and functions. Chromosome location analysis suggested that 30
Our previous study identified that the RepA protein encoded by the oat dwarf virus (ODV) was responsible for inducing a strong hypersensitive response (HR) during the virus infection in non-host tobacco plants. However, little was known about the molecular mechanism of the RepA-elicited HR. Here, a RING-finger protein, which is described as NbRFP1 and is mainly located in the cytoplasm and nucleus in
Target-site resistance (TSR) and non-target-site resistance (NTSR) to herbicides in arable weeds are increasing rapidly all over the world and threatening universal food safety. Resistance to herbicides that inhibit ACCase activity has been identified in wild oat. In this study, expression of ACC1, ACC2, CYP71R4 and CYP81B1 genes under herbicide stress conditions were studied in two TSR (resistant in the residue Ile1781-Leu and Ile2041-Asn of ACCase) biotypes, two NTSR biotypes and one susceptible biotype of A. ludoviciana for the first time. Treated and untreated biotypes with ACCase-inhibitor clodinafop propargyl herbicide were sampled from the stem and leaf tissues at 24 h after treatment. Our results showed an increase in gene expression levels in different tissues of both types of resistance biotypes that occurred under herbicide treatment compared with non-herbicide treatment. In all samples, the expression levels of leaf tissue in all studied genes were higher than in stem tissue. The results of ACC gene expression showed that the expression level of ACC1 was significantly higher than that of ACC2. Also, expression levels of TSR biotypes were higher than NTSR biotypes for the ACC1 gene. For both CYP71R4 and CYP81B1 genes, the expression ratio increased significantly in TSR and NTSR biotypes in different tissues after herbicide treatment. In contrast, the expression levels of CYP genes in NTSR biotypes were higher than in TSR biotypes. Our results support the hypothesis that the reaction of plants to herbicide is carried out through a different regulation of genes, which can be the result of the interaction of resistance type in the target or non-target-site.
Extensive research suggests that curcumin interferes with multiple cell signaling pathways involved in cancer development and progression. This study aimed to evaluate curcumin effects on adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), a rare but very aggressive tumor. Curcumin reduced growth, migration and activated apoptosis in three different ACC cell lines, H295R, SW13, MUC-1. This event was related to a decrease in estrogen-related receptor-α (ERRα) expression and cholesterol synthesis. More importantly, curcumin changed ACC cell metabolism, increasing glycolytic gene expression. However, pyruvate from glycolysis was only minimally used for lactate production and the Krebs cycle (TCA). In fact, lactate dehydrogenase, extracellular acidification rate (ECAR), TCA genes and oxygen consumption rate (OCR) were reduced. We instead found an increase in Glutamic-Pyruvic Transaminase (GPT), glutamine antiport transporter SLC1A5 and glutaminase (GLS1), supporting a metabolic rewiring toward glutamine metabolism. Targeting this mechanism, curcumin effects were improved. In fact, in a low glutamine-containing medium, the growth inhibitory effects elicited by curcumin were observed at a concentration ineffective in default growth medium. Data from this study prove the efficacy of curcumin against ACC growth and progression and point to the concomitant use of inhibitors for glutamine metabolism to improve its effects.
Extensive research has been conducted for decades to elucidate the molecular and regulatory mechanisms for phytochrome-mediated light signaling in plants. As a result, tens of downstream signaling components that physically interact with phytochromes are identified, among which negative transcription factors for photomorphogenesis, PHYTOCHROME-INTERACTING FACTORs (PIFs), are well known to be regulated by phytochromes. In addition, phytochromes are also shown to inactivate an important E3 ligase complex consisting of CONSTITUTIVELY PHOTOMORPHOGENIC 1 (COP1) and SUPPRESSORs OF
Structural chromosome rearrangements involving translocations, fusions and fissions lead to evolutionary variation between species and potentially reproductive isolation and variation in gene expression. While the wheats (Triticeae, Poaceae) and oats (Aveneae) all maintain a basic chromosome number of
A reliable qPCR experiment requires the selection of reference genes with a stable level of expression in a given experimental system. This study attempts to determine the reference genes (RGs) for the A. sativa-P. graminis experimental setup. We evaluated nine candidate reference genes in A. sativa (oat line Pg4 and the cultivar Kasztan) during compatible and incompatible interactions with different pathotypes of Puccinia graminis f. sp. avenae in six time points post-inoculation. The identification of genes with high expression stability was performed by four algorithms (geNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper and ΔCt method). We found that the most appropriate combination of RGs for RT-qPCR data normalization were HNR (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein 27C) + EF1A (elongation factor 1-alpha) + EIF4A (eukaryotic initiation factor 4A-3). The worst candidates for normalization in this dataset were CYP (cyclophilin) and TUA (alpha tubulin). Identified reference genes are suitable candidates for the standardization of gene expression studies in the A. sativa-P. graminis interaction system and potentially other related pathogens. To date, this is the first report of RGs selection in this pathosystem.
The WRKY family is widely involved in the regulation of plant growth and stress response and is one of the largest gene families related to plant environmental adaptation. However, no systematic studies on the WRKY family in oat (
Abiotic stress disturbs plant cellular redox homeostasis, inhibiting seed germination and plant growth. This is a crucial limitation to crop yield. Glutathione reductase (GR) is an important component of the ascorbate-glutathione (AsA-GSH) cycle which is involved in multiple plant metabolic processes. In the present study, GRs in
Oat is a food and forage crop species widely cultivated worldwide, and it is also an important forage grass in plateau regions of China, where there is a high level of ultraviolet radiation and sunlight. Screening suitable reference genes for oat under UV-B and high-light stresses is a prerequisite for ensuring the accuracy of real-time quantitative PCR (qRT-PCR) data used in plant adaptation research. In this study, eight candidate reference genes (sulfite oxidase,
Pathogenesis-related protein-1 (PR-1) plays crucial roles in regulating plant responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. This study aimed to isolate and characterize the first PR-1 (AvPR-1) gene in oat (
In this study we evaluated eleven candidate reference genes in Avena sativa during compatible and incompatible interactions with two different pathotypes of Puccinia coronata f. sp. avenae in six time points post-inoculation. The identification of genes with high expression stability was performed by four algorithms (geNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper and ΔCt method). The results obtained confirmed that the combination of two genes would be sufficient for reliable normalization of the expression data. In general, the most stable in the tested plant-pathogen system were HNR (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein 27C) and EF1A (elongation factor 1-alpha). ARF (ADP-ribosylation factor) and EIF4A (eukaryotic initiation factor 4A-3) could also be considered as exhibiting high expression stability. CYP (cyclophilin) was shown by all assessment methods to be the worst candidate for normalization in this dataset. To date, this is the first report of reference genes selection in A. sativa-P. coronata interaction system. Identified reference genes enable reliable and comprehensive RT-qPCR analysis of oat gene expression in response to crown rust infection. Understanding the molecular mechanisms involved in the host-pathogen interactions may expand knowledge of durable resistance strategies beneficial to modern oat breeding.
Heavy metal pollution has become a global problem, which affect more and more crop yields. Melatonin (MT) is widely used in plant stress resistance to alleviate the toxicity caused by heavy metals and other stresses. In this paper, the effects of exogenous 50 μM and 100 μM MT on the growth and development of naked oat seedlings under cadmium stress (25 mg L
Given that DNA methylation and tumor microenvironment (TME) are susceptible to radiotherapy, we aimed to figure out specific differential DNA methylation to reflect oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) prognosis and associated effect on TME changes postradiotherapy, performing as an efficient biomarker. Differentially methylation analysis was performed using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas. Curves of Kaplan-Meier (K-M) survival, cumulative hazard and events, Cox proportional hazards, and linear regression model were conducted to screen and validate differential methylation genes, while multiple regression equation to analyze if ornithine aminotransferase (OAT) methylation correlates with radiotherapy. For correlation between OAT methylation and immune infiltrates, CIBERSORT and ESTIMATE algorithms were performed, following gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and ssGSEA analysis to evaluate biological process. Compared to normal tissues, only OAT in OSCC was differential significantly by K-M analysis (p = 0.0364). OAT hypermethylation was associated with increased overall survival (hazard ratio: 0.65, p = 0.0358). Radiotherapy correlated with OAT methylation (β = -0.01, p = 0.0061); most patients with OAT hypermethylation were radiation-sensitive. Hypomethylated OAT correlated with higher cell infiltrations in TME. Neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction was most significantly related to OAT methylation (p = 9.2e-10). Sulfur metabolism was the most significantly in OAT hypermethylation group (p = 0.0041) and RIG-I-like receptor in OAT hypomethylation group (p = 0.0094). OAT methylation can serve as a predictor of OSCC prognosis postradiotherapy with potential mechanism by changing cell infiltrations in TME, but further experimental study deserves to carry out confirming the role and mechanism of OAT methylation in OSCC.
As one of the US Department of Agriculture-Agricultural Research Service flagship databases, GrainGenes (https://wheat.pw.usda.gov) serves the data and community needs of globally distributed small grains researchers for the genetic improvement of the Triticeae family and Avena species that include wheat, barley, rye and oat. GrainGenes accomplishes its mission by continually enriching its cross-linked data content following the findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable principles, enhancing and maintaining an intuitive web interface, creating tools to enable easy data access and establishing data connections within and between GrainGenes and other biological databases to facilitate knowledge discovery. GrainGenes operates within the biological database community, collaborates with curators and genome sequencing groups and contributes to the AgBioData Consortium and the International Wheat Initiative through the Wheat Information System (WheatIS). Interactive and linked content is paramount for successful biological databases and GrainGenes now has 2917 manually curated gene records, including 289 genes and 254 alleles from the Wheat Gene Catalogue (WGC). There are >4.8 million gene models in 51 genome browser assemblies, 6273 quantitative trait loci and >1.4 million genetic loci on 4756 genetic and physical maps contained within 443 mapping sets, complete with standardized metadata. Most notably, 50 new genome browsers that include outputs from the Wheat and Barley PanGenome projects have been created. We provide an example of an expression quantitative trait loci track on the International Wheat Genome Sequencing Consortium Chinese Spring wheat browser to demonstrate how genome browser tracks can be adapted for different data types. To help users benefit more from its data, GrainGenes created four tutorials available on YouTube. GrainGenes is executing its vision of service by continuously responding to the needs of the global small grains community by creating a centralized, long-term, interconnected data repository. Database URL:https://wheat.pw.usda.gov.
Oat (Avena sativa L.) is considered to be a healthy food. In contrast to other grain crops, oat is high in protein, lipids, dietary fiber, antioxidants, and uniquely in avenanthramides. The question of whether it can also be consumed by people suffering from celiac disease is still unresolved. The main aim of this study was to extract and sequence genes for potentially harmful avenins, globulins, and α-amylase/trypsin inhibitors in six oat varieties and to establish their variability using PacBio sequencing technology of enriched libraries. The results were compared with sequences of the genes already present in databases. In total, 21 avenin, 75 globulin, and 25 α-amylase/trypsin inhibitor genes were identified and mapped in the hexaploid oat chromosomes. In all of the three gene families, only marginal sequence differences were found between the oat varieties within the individual genes. Avenin epitopes were found in all four types of avenin genes occurring in all oat varieties tested within this study. However, the number of avenin genes was nearly four times lower than of globulin genes and, on the protein level, formed only 10% of storage proteins. Therefore, the question of whether oat is safe to celiac disease people is a question of boundary values.
Soil salinity is a threat to agricultural production worldwide. Oat (Avena sativa L.) is an irreplaceable crop in areas with fragile ecological conditions. However, there is a lack of research on salt tolerance evaluation of oat germplasm resources. Therefore, the purpose of this work was to evaluate the salt tolerance of oat cultivars and investigate the mechanism of salt-tolerant oat cultivars' adaptation to salinity. Salt tolerance of 100 oat cultivars was evaluated, and then two salt-tolerant cultivars and two salt-sensitive cultivars were used to compare their physiological responses and expression patterns of Na
Seed aging is a major challenge for food security, agronomic production, and germplasm conservation, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) and methylglyoxal (MG) are highly involved in the aging process. However, the regulatory mechanisms controlling the abundance of ROS and MG are not well characterized. To characterize dynamic response of antioxidant and glyoxalase systems during seed aging, oat (
Grafting is possible in both animals and plants. Although in animals the process requires surgery and is often associated with rejection of non-self, in plants grafting is widespread, and has been used since antiquity for crop improvement
A Populus euphratica NAC gene regulates (1,3; 1,4)-β-D-glucan content in oat developing seed and improves the spikelet number and grain number per spike in transgenic oat under salinity conditions Salinity is the major factor affecting the production and quality of oat, and improving oat salt tolerance to increase yield and quality is vital. (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucan in Gramineae is the key component in response to various environmental signals, and it is the most important functional ingredient in oat grain. The NAC transcription factors are important candidate genes used in genetic engineering to improve plant abiotic stress tolerance. In this study, we introduced Populus euphratica PeNAC1, controlled by its own promoter, into hexaploid cultivated oat and produced six transgenic lines. Compared to the non-transgenic control, the expression of PeNAC1 significantly improved the seed germination rate, seedling survival rate, and leaf chlorophyll content in the transgenic plants under salt stress. These physiological changes increased the spikelet number and grain number per spike in the transgenic oat under salinity conditions and reduced the yield loss per plant. The results indicated that the heterologous expression of PeNAC1 plays an effective role in improving the salt tolerance in transgenic oat. In addition, overexpressing PeNAC1 significantly increased the (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucan content as well as the expression level of the (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucan biosynthetic genes AsCslF3, AsCslF6, and AsCslF9 in the transgenic lines under salt stress, which suggested that PeNAC1 regulates the synthesis of (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucan. Our research should assist in the discovery of the diverse action modes of NAC proteins, while PeNAC1 will be useful for improving the salt tolerance and quality of oat through molecular breeding.
Integration of multi-omics data improved prediction accuracies of oat agronomic and seed nutritional traits in multi-environment trials and distantly related populations in addition to the single-environment prediction. Multi-omics prediction has been shown to be superior to genomic prediction with genome-wide DNA-based genetic markers (G) for predicting phenotypes. However, most of the existing studies were based on historical datasets from one environment; therefore, they were unable to evaluate the efficiency of multi-omics prediction in multi-environment trials and distantly related populations. To fill those gaps, we designed a systematic experiment to collect omics data and evaluate 17 traits in two oat breeding populations planted in single and multiple environments. In the single-environment trial, transcriptomic BLUP (T), metabolomic BLUP (M), G + T, G + M, and G + T + M models showed greater prediction accuracy than GBLUP for 5, 10, 11, 17, and 17 traits, respectively, and metabolites generally performed better than transcripts when combined with SNPs. In the multi-environment trial, multi-trait models with omics data outperformed both counterpart multi-trait GBLUP models and single-environment omics models, and the highest prediction accuracy was achieved when modeling genetic covariance as an unstructured covariance model. We also demonstrated that omics data can be used to prioritize loci from one population with omics data to improve genomic prediction in a distantly related population using a two-kernel linear model that accommodated both likely casual loci with large-effect and loci that explain little or no phenotypic variance. We propose that the two-kernel linear model is superior to most genomic prediction models that assume each variant is equally likely to affect the trait and can be used to improve prediction accuracy for any trait with prior knowledge of genetic architecture.
The SOCS/CIS is a family of intracellular proteins distributed widely among living organisms. The members of this family have extensively been studied in mammals and have been shown to regulate various physiological processes. In contrast, the functional roles of SOCS/CIS family proteins are unknown in most invertebrates, including insects. Here, we retrieved a full-length open reading frame (ORF) of SOCS-6 from Chines oak silkworm, Antheraea pernyi (Designated as ApSOCS-6), using the RNA-seq database. The predicted ApSOCS-6 amino acid sequence comprised an N-terminal SH2 domain and a C-terminal SOCS-box domain. It shared the highly conserved structures of the SOCS proteins with other lepidopteran species. ApSOCS-6 mRNA transcript was detected in all the tested tissues of the A. pernyi larvae; however, the highest mRNA levels were found in the larval hemocytes, fat bodies, and integuments. The mRNA transcript levels of ApSOCS-6 were increased in the A. pernyi larval hemocytes and fat bodies after a challenge by the Gram-positive bacteria, M. luteus, Gram-negative bacteria, Escherichia coli, Virus, ApNPV, and Fungus, B. bassiana. After the knockdown of ApSOCS-6, we found a significant increase in bacterial clearance and a decrease in the relative replication of bacteria. To evaluate the possible cause of enhanced antibacterial activity, we measured antimicrobial peptides expression in the fat body of A. pernyi larvae. The production of AMPs was strongly increased in the B. cereus infected larval fat bodies following silencing of ApSOCS-6. Our data indicate that ApSOCS-6 negatively regulates the expression of AMPs in immune tissues in response to the B. cereus challenge.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative disorder that can result in the loss of articular cartilage. No effective treatment against OA is currently available. Thus, interest in natural health products to relieve OA symptoms is increasing. However, their qualities such as efficacy, toxicity, and mechanism are poorly understood. In this study, we determined the efficacy of avenanthramide (Avn)-C extracted from oats as a promising candidate to prevent OA progression and its mechanism of action to prevent the expression of matrix-metalloproteinases (MMPs) in OA pathogenesis. Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), a proinflammatory cytokine as a main causing factor of cartilage destruction, was used to induce OAlike condition of chondrocytes in vitro. Avn-C restrained IL-1β- mediated expression and activity of MMPs, such as MMP-3, -12, and -13 in mouse articular chondrocytes. Moreover, Avn-C alleviated cartilage destruction in experimental OA mouse model induced by destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM) surgery. However, Avn-C did not affect the expression of inflammatory mediators (Ptgs2 and Nos) or anabolic factors (Col2a1, Aggrecan, and Sox9), although expression levels of these genes were upregulated or downregulated by IL-1β, respectively. The inhibition of MMP expression by Avn-C in articular chondrocytes was mediated by p38 kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling, but not by ERK or NF-κB. Interestingly, Avn-C added with SB203580 and SP600125 as specific inhibitors of p38 kinase and JNK, respectively, enhanced its inhibitory effect on the expression of MMPs in IL-1β treated chondrocytes. Taken together, these results suggest that Avn-C is an effective candidate to prevent OA progression and a natural health product to relieve OA pathogenesis. [BMB Reports 2021; 54(10): 528-533].
Trichoderma polysporum was a pathogenic fungi which showed strong pathogenicity to Avena fatua L. in recent study. The stress response of A. fatua to T. polysporum is mediated by the regulation of gene expression. Quantification of the expression of genes requires normalizing RT-qPCR data using reference genes with stable expression in the system studied as internal standards. To construct a RT-qPCR system suitable for response of A. fatua to T. polysporum, and screen stable internal reference genes, GeNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper and RefFinde were used to perform SYBR Green-based RT-qPCR analysis on eight candidate internal reference genes (18S, 28S, TUA, UBC, ACT, GAPDH, TBP and EF-1α) in A. fatua samples after inoculation of T. polysporum Strain HZ-31. The results showed that TBP, 18S and UBC were the most stable internal reference genes, TBP and TUA, TBP and GAPDH, 18S and TBP, UBC and 18S were the most suitable combination of the two internal reference genes, which could be used as internal reference genes for functional gene expression analysis during the interaction between T. polysporum and A. fatua. This is the first study describing a set of reference genes with a stable expression under fungi stress in A. fatua. These genes are also candidate reference genes of choice for studies seeking to identify stress-responsive genes in A. fatua.
The integrity of the epidermal barrier and the maintenance of barrier homeostasis depend on the dynamic balance between the proliferation and differentiation of keratinocytes. Calcium (Ca
Oat is an annual gramineous forage grass with the remarkable ability to survive under various stressful environments. However, understanding the effects of high altitude stresses on oats is poor. Therefore, the physiological and the transcriptomic changes were analyzed at two sites with different altitudes, low (ca. 2,080 m) or high (ca. 2,918 m), respectively. Higher levels of antioxidant enzyme activity, reactive oxygen and major reductions in photosynthesis-related markers were suggested for oats at high altitudes. Furthermore, oat yields were severely suppressed at the high altitude. RNA-seq results showed that 11,639 differentially expressed genes were detected at both the low and the high altitudes in which 5,203 up-regulated and 6,436 down-regulated. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment tests were conducted and a group of major high altitude-responsive pigment metabolism genes, photosynthesis, hormone signaling, and cutin, suberine and wax biosynthesis were excavated. Using quantitative real-time polymerase chain response, we also confirmed expression levels of 20 DEGs (qRT-PCR). In summary, our study generated genome-wide transcript profile and may be useful for understanding the molecular mechanisms of
Photosensory receptors containing the flavin-binding light-oxygen-voltage (LOV) domain are modular proteins that fulfil a variety of biological functions ranging from gene expression to phototropism. The LOV photocycle is initiated by blue-light and involves a cascade of intermediate species, including an electronically excited triplet state, that leads to covalent bond formation between the flavin mononucleotide (FMN) chromophore and a nearby cysteine residue. Subsequent conformational changes in the polypeptide chain arise due to the remodelling of the hydrogen bond network in the cofactor binding pocket, whereby a conserved glutamine residue plays a key role in coupling FMN photochemistry with LOV photobiology. Although the dark-to-light transition of LOV photosensors has been previously addressed by spectroscopy and computational approaches, the mechanistic basis of the underlying reactions is still not well understood. Here we present a detailed computational study of three distinct LOV domains: EL222 from Erythrobacter litoralis, AsLOV2 from the second LOV domain of Avena sativa phototropin 1, and RsLOV from Rhodobacter sphaeroides LOV protein. Extended protein-chromophore models containing all known crucial residues involved in the initial steps (femtosecond-to-microsecond) of the photocycle were employed. Energies and rotational barriers were calculated for possible rotamers and tautomers of the critical glutamine side chain, which allowed us to postulate the most energetically favoured glutamine orientation for each LOV domain along the assumed reaction path. In turn, for each evolving species, infrared difference spectra were constructed and compared to experimental EL222 and AsLOV2 transient infrared spectra, the former from original work presented here and the latter from the literature. The good agreement between theory and experiment permitted the assignment of the majority of observed bands, notably the ∼1635 cm-1 transient of the adduct state to the carbonyl of the glutamine side chain after rotation. Moreover, both the energetic and spectroscopic approaches converge in suggesting a facile glutamine flip at the adduct intermediate for EL222 and more so for AsLOV2, while for RsLOV the glutamine keeps its initial configuration. Additionally, the computed infrared shifts of the glutamine and interacting residues could guide experimental research addressing early events of signal transduction in LOV proteins.
The color of bracts generally turns yellow or black from green during cereal grain development. However, the impact of these phenotypic changes on photosynthetic physiology during black bract formation remains unclear. Two oat cultivars (
Resveratrol (RSV) is a natural compound that displays several pharmacological properties, including anti-cancer actions. However, its clinical application is limited because of its low solubility and bioavailability. Here, the antiproliferative and anti-inflammatory activity of a series of phenylacetamide RSV derivatives has been evaluated in several cancer cell lines. These derivatives contain a monosubstituted aromatic ring that could mimic the RSV phenolic nucleus and a longer flexible chain that could confer a better stability and bioavailability than RSV. Using MTT assay, we demonstrated that most derivatives exerted antiproliferative effects in almost all of the cancer cell lines tested. Among them, derivative
Non-random gene organization in eukaryotes plays a significant role in genome evolution. Here, we investigate the origin of a biosynthetic gene cluster for production of defence compounds in oat-the avenacin cluster. We elucidate the structure and organisation of this 12-gene cluster, characterise the last two missing pathway steps, and reconstitute the entire pathway in tobacco by transient expression. We show that the cluster has formed de novo since the divergence of oats in a subtelomeric region of the genome that lacks homology with other grasses, and that gene order is approximately colinear with the biosynthetic pathway. We speculate that the positioning of the late pathway genes furthest away from the telomere may mitigate against a 'self-poisoning' scenario in which toxic intermediates accumulate as a result of telomeric gene deletions. Our investigations reveal a striking example of adaptive evolution underpinned by remarkable genome plasticity.
The incidence of Crohn's disease (CD) is increasing worldwide, and it has currently become a serious public health issue in society. The treatment of CD continues throughout a patient's lifetime, and therefore, it is necessary to develop new, effective treatment methods, including dietotherapy. The present study aimed to determine the effects of consumption of oat beta-glucans with different molar mass on colon inflammation ( Sprague-Dawley rats (control and TNBS-induced CD) were divided into three dietary groups and fed for 3 days (reflecting acute inflammation) or 7 days (reflecting remission) with a feed containing 1% low (βGl) or high (βGh) molar mass oat beta-glucan or a feed without this polysaccharide. The level of colon inflammatory markers and the expression of cytokines and their receptor genes were measured by ELISA and RT-PCR methods, respectively. Acute inflammation or remission (3 or 7 days after TNBS administration, respectively) stages of experimentally induced CD were characterized by an increase in the level of inflammatory markers (IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12, TNF-α, CRP, MPO, COX, and PGE2) and the disruption of some cytokine signaling pathways as well as macro- and microscopic changes of colon tissue. The consumption of oat beta-glucans reduced the level of inflammatory markers and recovered the signaling pathways and histological changes, with stronger effects of βGl after 7 days of Dietary oat beta-glucans can reduce
Cereal crops, such as oats and barley, possess a number of valuable properties that meet the requirements for functional diet components. This review summarized the available information about bioactive compounds of oat and barley grain. The results of studying the structure and physicochemical properties of the cell wall polysaccharides of barley and oat are presented. The main components of the flavonoids formation pathway are shown and data, concerning anthocyanins biosynthesis in various barley tissues, are discussed. Moreover, we analyzed the available information about structural and regulatory genes of anthocyanin biosynthesis in
Accumulating evidence has demonstrated that cellular antioxidant systems play essential roles in retarding oxidative stress-related diseases, such as Parkinson's disease. Because nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a chief regulator of cellular antioxidant systems, small molecules with Nrf2-activating ability may be promising neuroprotective agents. Avenanthramide-2c (Aven-2c), avenanthramide-2f (Aven-2f) and avenanthramide-2p (Aven-2p) are the most abundant avenanthramides in oats, and they have been documented to possess multiple pharmacological benefits. In this work, we synthesized these three compounds and evaluated their cytoprotective effect against oxidative stress-induced PC12 cell injuries. Aven-2c displayed the best protective potency among them. Aven-2c conferred protection on PC12 cells by scavenging free radicals and activating the Nrf2-ARE signaling pathway. Pretreatment of PC12 cells with Aven-2c efficiently enhanced Nrf2 nuclear accumulation and evoked the expression of a set of cytoprotective molecules. The mechanistic study also supports that Nrf2 activation is the molecular basis for the cellular action of Aven-2c. Collectively, this study demonstrates that Aven-2c is a potent Nrf2 agonist, shedding light on the potential usage of Aven-2c in the treatment of neuroprotective diseases.
Identifying mechanisms and pathways involved in gene-environment interplay and phenotypic plasticity is a long-standing challenge. It is highly desirable to establish an integrated framework with an environmental dimension for complex trait dissection and prediction. A critical step is to identify an environmental index that is both biologically relevant and estimable for new environments. With extensive field-observed complex traits, environmental profiles, and genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms for three major crops (maize, wheat, and oat), we demonstrated that identifying such an environmental index (i.e., a combination of environmental parameter and growth window) enables genome-wide association studies and genomic selection of complex traits to be conducted with an explicit environmental dimension. Interestingly, genes identified for two reaction-norm parameters (i.e., intercept and slope) derived from flowering time values along the environmental index were less colocalized for a diverse maize panel than for wheat and oat breeding panels, agreeing with the different diversity levels and genetic constitutions of the panels. In addition, we showcased the usefulness of this framework for systematically forecasting the performance of diverse germplasm panels in new environments. This general framework and the companion CERIS-JGRA analytical package should facilitate biologically informed dissection of complex traits, enhanced performance prediction in breeding for future climates, and coordinated efforts to enrich our understanding of mechanisms underlying phenotypic variation.
Adrenocortical cancer (ACC) is a rare tumour with unfavourable prognosis, lacking an effective treatment. This tumour is characterized by IGF-II (insulin-like growth factor II) overproduction, aromatase and ERα (oestrogen receptor alpha) up-regulation. Previous reports suggest that ERα expression can be regulated by sirt1 (sirtuin 1), a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+)-dependent class III histone deacetylases that modulates activity of several substrates involved in cellular stress, metabolism, proliferation, senescence, protein degradation and apoptosis. Nevertheless, sirt1 can act as a tumour suppressor or oncogenic protein. In this study, we found that in H295R and SW13 cell lines, sirt1 expression is inhibited by sirtinol, a potent inhibitor of sirt1 activity. In addition, sirtinol is able to decrease ACC cell proliferation, colony and spheroids formation and to activate the intrinsic apoptotic mechanism. Particularly, we observed that sirtinol interferes with E2/ERα and IGF1R (insulin growth factor 1 receptor) pathways by decreasing receptors expression. Sirt1 involvement was confirmed by using a specific sirt1 siRNA. More importantly, we observed that sirtinol can synergize with mitotane, a selective adrenolitic drug, in inhibiting adrenocortical cancer cell growth. Collectively, our data reveal an oncogenic role for sirt1 in ACC and its targeting could implement treatment options for this type of cancer.
Precision tools for spatiotemporal control of cytoskeletal motor function are needed to dissect fundamental biological processes ranging from intracellular transport to cell migration and division. Direct optical control of motor speed and direction is one promising approach, but it remains a challenge to engineer controllable motors with desirable properties such as the speed and processivity required for transport applications in living cells. Here, we develop engineered myosin motors that combine large optical modulation depths with high velocities, and create processive myosin motors with optically controllable directionality. We characterize the performance of the motors using in vitro motility assays, single-molecule tracking and live-cell imaging. Bidirectional processive motors move efficiently toward the tips of cellular protrusions in the presence of blue light, and can transport molecular cargo in cells. Robust gearshifting myosins will further enable programmable transport in contexts ranging from in vitro active matter reconstitutions to microfabricated systems that harness molecular propulsion.
Male sterility (MS) has important applications in hybrid seed production, and the abortion of anthers has been observed in many plant species. While most studies have focused on the genetic factors affecting male sterility, the dynamic gene expression patterns of pollen abortion in male sterile lines have not been fully elucidated. In addition, there is still no hybrid oat that is commercially planted due to the lack of a suitable system of male sterility for hybrid breeding. In this study, we cultivated a male sterile oat line and a near-isogenic line by crossbreeding to elucidate the expression patterns of genes that may be involved in sterility. The first reported CA male sterile (CAMS) oat line was used for cross-testing and hybridization experiments and was confirmed to exhibit a type of nuclear sterility controlled by recessive genes. Oat stamens of two lines were sampled at four different developmental stages separately. Paired-end RNA sequencing was performed for each sample and generated 252.84 Gb sequences. There were 295,462 unigenes annotated in public databases in all samples, and we compared the histological characteristics and transcriptomes of oat stamens from the two oat lines at different developmental stages. Our results demonstrate that the sterility of the male sterile oat line occurs in the early stage of stamen development and is primarily attributable to abnormal meiosis and the excessive accumulation of superoxide. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to decipher the dynamic expression profiles of pollen abortion CAMS and CA male fertile (CAMF) oat lines, which may represent a valuable resource for further studies attempting to understand pollen abortion and anther development in oats.
Soil salinity is among the crucial factors that impact on crop productivity, including oat (Avena sativa L.). Herein, we used two distinct oat cultivars with varied salt tolerance levels to unravel adaptive responses to salt stress by metabolomic and transcriptomic characterization. Metabolomic profiling revealed 201 metabolites, including saccharides, amino acids, organic acids, and secondary metabolites. The levels of most saccharides and amino acids were elevated in Baiyan 2 (BY2) as well as in Baiyan 5 (BY5) exposed to salt stress. In the tolerant cultivar BY2 exposed to 150 mM NaCl, concentrations of most of the metabolites increased significantly, with sucrose increased by 38.34-fold, Sophorose increased by 314.15-fold and Isomaltose 2 increased by 25.76-fold. In the sensitive cultivar BY5, the concentrations of most metabolites increased after the plant was exposed to 150 mM NaCl but decreased after the plant was exposed to 300 mM NaCl. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that gene expressions in BY5 were significantly affected under exposure to 300 mM NaCl (34040 genes up-regulated and 14757 genes down-regulated). Assessment of metabolic pathways as well as KEGG enrichment revealed that salt stress interferes with the biosynthesis of two oat cultivars, including capacity expenditure and sugar metabolism. Most of the BY2 genes enhanced energy consumption (for example, glycolysis) and biosynthesis (for instance, starch and sugar metabolism) under salt stress. In contrast, genes in BY5 were found to be down-regulated, leading to the inhibition of energy consumption and biosynthesis, which may also be attributed to salt sensitivity in BY5. In addition, the modified Na
The unique dietary fiber composition with high contents of β-glucan contributes to the health-promoting properties of oat and barley and may mediate a reduction of colon cancer risk. In the present study, chemopreventive effects of oat and barley (beta
The combination of herbicides with different modes of action has been adopted not only to improve weed control but also to increase the environmental sustainability of plant-protection products. In this study, we showed a synergistic effect of the auxin herbicide 2,4-D amine with the PSII-inhibiting herbicide metribuzin to control the global grass weed wild oat (
Plant defensins are a group of small disulfide-rich cationic peptides that exhibit a broad spectrum of antimicrobial activities. In the present study, an antibacterial plant defensin peptide was successfully identified and characterized from the transcriptome of the oat (Avena sativa L.), and called AsDef1. The complete nucleotide sequence of AsDef1 was determined (321 bp) and found to contain an open reading frame (ORF) encoding a peptide of 77 aa with a putative 22 aa signal peptide sequence that addresses the mature defensin to the apoplast. Further in silico analyses revealed that the structure of the identified defensin (AsDef1) consists of the Knot1 functional domain with eight conserved cysteine residues and four disulfide bonds. The highest expression of AsDef1 was observed in the developing seeds of the A. sativa plant. AsDef1 also showed antibacterial activity against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC) values ranged from 0.15625 μM to 0.625 μM. In this study, we identified and characterized an antibacterial defensin from A. sativa for the first time. The findings of the present study offer insights that can be used in producing pathogen-resistant transgenic plants and in developing potential antibacterial agents in the future using AsDef1 from A. sativa.
Oat (Avena sativa) has human health benefits when consumed as a whole-grain food, attributed to the high content of (1,3;1,4)-β-d-glucan (mixed-linkage glucan [MLG]), but little is known about the synthase genes and synthesis mechanism of MLG polysaccharides in this species. The concentration of oat MLGs under different light intensities was measured by a standard enzymatic approach and further verified by immunoelectron microscopy. The effect of light intensity on MLG synthase genes was examined by RT-qPCR and western blot analyses. The pattern of expression directed by the promoter of the oat MLG synthase gene was also investigated by histochemical β-glucuronidase (GUS) analysis. The oat orthologues of genes implicated in the synthesis of MLG in other cereals, including cellulose synthase-like (Csl) F, H and J gene families, were defined. Transcript profiling of these genes across oat tissues indicated that AsCslF6 transcripts dominated. Under high light intensities, the expression of AsCslF6, a major isoform of the MLG synthase genes, increased to >30 % of the dark growth control. The amount of MLG in oat rose from 0.07 to 1.06 % with increased light intensity. Histochemical tests showed that the AsCslF6 gene promoter preferentially directs GUS expression under high light intensity conditions. Oat MLG synthesis is regulated by light. High light intensity upregulates the expression of the MLG synthase AsCslF6 gene, leading to an increase in the amount of MLG in oat leaves.
Oat ( In this study, eleven candidate RGs, including four duplicated genes, were selected from oat transcriptome. The stability and the optimal combination of these candidate RGs were assessed in 18 oat samples by using four statistical algorithms including the ΔCt method, geNorm, NormFinder and BestKeeper. The most stable RGs for "all samples", "shoots and roots of seedlings", "developing seeds" and "developing endosperms" were Results provide a proof of concept that the duplicated RG is feasible for qPCR in polyploids. To our knowledge, this study is the first systematic research on the optimal RGs for accurate qPCR normalization of gene expression in different organs and tissues of oat.
How the biophysical properties of overlaying tissues control growth, such as the embryonic root (radicle) during seed germination, is a fundamental question. In eudicot seeds the endosperm surrounding the radicle confers coat dormancy and controls germination responses through modulation of its cell wall mechanical properties. Far less is known for grass caryopses that differ in tissue morphology. Here we report that the coleorhiza, a sheath-like organ that surrounds the radicle in grass embryos, performs the same role in the grass weed Avena fatua (common wild oat). We combined innovative biomechanical techniques, tissue ablation, microscopy, tissue-specific gene and enzyme activity expression with the analysis of hormones and oligosaccharides. The combined experimental work demonstrates that in grass caryopses the coleorhiza indeed controls germination for which we provide direct biomechanical evidence. We show that the coleorhiza becomes reinforced during dormancy maintenance and weakened during germination. Xyloglucan endotransglycosylases/hydrolases may have a role in coleorhiza reinforcement through cell wall remodelling to confer coat dormancy. The control of germination by coleorhiza-enforced dormancy in grasses is an example of the convergent evolution of mechanical restraint by overlaying tissues.
Estrogen signaling plays important roles in testicular functions and tumorigenesis. Fifteen years ago, it was discovered that a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family, GPR30, which binds also with high affinity to estradiol and is responsible, in part, for the rapid non-genomic actions of estrogens. GPR30, renamed as GPER, was detected in several tissues including germ cells (spermatogonia, spermatocytes, spermatids) and somatic cells (Sertoli and Leydig cells). In our previous review published in 2014, we summarized studies that evidenced a role of GPER signaling in mediating estrogen action during spermatogenesis and testis development. In addition, we evidenced that GPER seems to be involved in modulating estrogen-dependent testicular cancer cell growth; however, the effects on cell survival and proliferation depend on specific cell type. In this review, we update the knowledge obtained in the last years on GPER roles in regulating physiological functions of testicular cells and its involvement in neoplastic transformation of both germ and somatic cells. In particular, we will focus our attention on crosstalk among GPER signaling, classical estrogen receptors and other nuclear receptors involved in testis physiology regulation.
Wheat blast caused by the Triticum pathotype of Pyricularia oryzae poses a serious threat to wheat production in South America and Asia and is now becoming a pandemic disease. Here, we show that Rmg8, a promising wheat gene for resistance breeding, is suppressed by PWT4, an effector gene of P. oryzae, and in turn that the suppression is counteracted by Rwt4, a wheat gene recognizing PWT4. When PWT4 was introduced into a wheat blast isolate carrying AVR-Rmg8 (an avirulence gene corresponding to Rmg8), PWT4 suppressed wheat resistance conferred by Rmg8. PWT4 did not alter the expression of AVR-Rmg8, but higher expression of PWT4 led to more efficient suppression. This suppression was observed in rwt4 carriers, but not in Rwt4 carriers, indicating that it is counteracted by Rwt4. PWT4 was assumed to have been horizontally transferred from a weed-associated cryptic species, P. pennisetigena, to an Avena isolate of P. oryzae in Brazil. This implies a potential risk of the acquisition of PWT4 by the wheat blast fungus and the 'breakdown' of Rmg8. We suggest that Rmg8 should be introduced together with Rwt4 into a wheat cultivar when it is used for resistance breeding.
Deterioration during seed storage generally causes seed vigour declining. However, the mechanism of deterioration occurred still not clear. Seeds and embryos of oat (Avena sativa L.) were selected to analyze the relation of physiological and metabolic reactions with DEGs by using RNA-seq. Oat seed vigour declined during seeds aged 0 day (CK), 16 days (CD16) and 32 days (CD32). The changes of MDA and H
Cereal grains, including wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), are major sources of food and feed, with wheat being dominant in temperate zones. These end uses exploit the storage reserves in the starchy endosperm of the grain, with starch being the major storage component in most cereal species. However, oats (Avena sativa L.) differs in that the starchy endosperm stores significant amounts of oil. Understanding the control of carbon allocation between groups of storage compounds, such as starch and oil, is therefore important for understanding the composition and hence end use quality of cereals. WRINKLED1 is a transcription factor known to induce triacylglycerol (TAG; oil) accumulation in several plant storage tissues. An oat endosperm homolog of WRI1 (AsWRI1) expressed from the endosperm-specific HMW1Dx5 promoter resulted in drastic changes in carbon allocation in wheat grains, with reduced seed weight and a wrinkled seed phenotype. The starch content of mature grain endosperms of AsWRI1-wheat was reduced compared to controls (from 62 to 22% by dry weight (dw)), TAG was increased by up to nine-fold (from 0.7 to 6.4% oil by dw) and sucrose from 1.5 to 10% by dw. Expression of AsWRI1 in wheat grains also resulted in multiple layers of elongated peripheral aleurone cells. RNA-sequencing, lipid analyses, and pulse-chase experiments using Our data show that expression of oat endosperm WRI1 in the wheat endosperm results in changes in metabolism which could underpin the application of biotechnology to manipulate grain composition. In particular, the striking effect on starch synthesis in the wheat endosperm indicates that an important indirect role of WRI1 is to divert carbon allocation away from starch biosynthesis in plant storage tissues that accumulate oil.
Although melatonin has been reported to play an important role in regulating metabolic events under adverse stresses, its underlying mechanisms on germination in aged seeds remain unclear. This study was conducted to investigate the effect of melatonin priming (MP) on embryos of aged oat seeds in relation to germination, ultrastructural changes, antioxidant responses, and protein profiles. Proteomic analysis revealed, in total, 402 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in normal, aged, and aged + MP embryos. The downregulated DEPs in aged embryos were enriched in sucrose metabolism, glycolysis, β-oxidation of lipid, and protein synthesis. MP (200 μM) turned four downregulated DEPs into upregulated DEPs, among which, especially 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase-like protein (KATLP) involved in the β-oxidation pathway played a key role in maintaining TCA cycle stability and providing more energy for protein translation. Furthermore, it was found that MP enhanced antioxidant capacity in the ascorbate-glutathione (AsA-GSH) system, declined reactive oxygen species (ROS), and improved cell ultrastructure. These results indicated that the impaired germination and seedling growth of aged seeds could be rescued to a certain level by melatonin, predominantly depending on β-oxidation, protein translation, and antioxidant protection of AsA-GSH. This work reveals new insights into melatonin-mediated mechanisms from protein profiles that occur in embryos of oat seeds processed by both aging and priming.
Reproductive isolation between different host populations is often based on intraspecific sex pheromone differences. The mechanisms underlying these differences have not been thoroughly elucidated to date. Previous studies suggested that Chilo suppressalis has differentiated into rice and water-oat host populations, and these two populations manifest clear differences in sex pheromone titer and mating rhythm. Hence, this moth is an ideal model to investigate the endogenous mechanisms of intraspecific reproductive isolation. Here, we identified a series of putative genes associated with sex pheromone biosynthesis based on the C. suppressalis pheromone gland transcriptome data. Transcripts of most genes were at higher level in the rice population. Then we obtained 11 pivotal differentially expressed genes (DEGs). The expression levels of these DEGs exhibited a distinct increase in the rice population. Moreover, we also observed the expression rhythm of these DEGs is discrepant between two host populations. Our study offers a new understanding to elucidate the mechanisms of intraspecific reproductive isolation.
RE-1 Silencing Transcription factor (REST) controls several steps in neural development by modulating the expression of a wide range of neural genes. Alterations in REST expression have been associated with the onset of epilepsy; however, whether such alterations are deleterious or represent a protective homeostatic response remains elusive. To study the impact of REST modulation on seizure propensity, we developed a tool for its negative modulation
The rhizosphere is a hotspot for microbial carbon transformations, and is the entry point for root polysaccharides and polymeric carbohydrates that are important precursors to soil organic matter (SOM). However, the ecological mechanisms that underpin rhizosphere carbohydrate depolymerization are poorly understood. Using Avena fatua, a common annual grass, we analyzed time-resolved metatranscriptomes to compare microbial functions in rhizosphere, detritusphere, and combined rhizosphere-detritusphere habitats. Transcripts were binned using a unique reference database generated from soil isolate genomes, single-cell amplified genomes, metagenomes, and stable isotope probing metagenomes. While soil habitat significantly affected both community composition and overall gene expression, the succession of microbial functions occurred at a faster time scale than compositional changes. Using hierarchical clustering of upregulated decomposition genes, we identified four distinct microbial guilds populated by taxa whose functional succession patterns suggest specialization for substrates provided by fresh growing roots, decaying root detritus, the combination of live and decaying root biomass, or aging root material. Carbohydrate depolymerization genes were consistently upregulated in the rhizosphere, and both taxonomic and functional diversity were highest in the combined rhizosphere-detritusphere, suggesting coexistence of rhizosphere guilds is facilitated by niche differentiation. Metatranscriptome-defined guilds provide a framework to model rhizosphere succession and its consequences for soil carbon cycling.
Avena sativa L. is the most important cultivated oat species worldwide. Although photoperiod-insensitive oat varieties exist, the molecular mechanisms underlying their photoperiod sensitivity are poorly understood. This study investigated the effects of day length on the fioral transition of oats and the mechanisms underlying oat photoperiod insensitivity. Photoperiod-sensitive and photoperiod-insensitive varieties, including gp012, were used in shading experiments, and the developing leaves and main shoot apices (MSAs) of the HONGQI2 and gp012 varieties were used for sequencing. Leaves and MSAs were collected in 2016, and their transcriptomes were sequenced. The photoperiod-insensitive varieties headed under both short-day and long-day conditions, while the photoperiod-sensitive varieties headed only under long-day conditions. A total of 60673 transcript sequences were obtained, 7932 of which were differentially expressed; 3194 and 4738 transcripts were differentially expressed in the leaves and MSAs, respectively. A total of 25793 transcripts were classified into 123 pathways based on the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database. The carbon metabolism pathways were dominant, followed by ribosome and protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum. In addition, 203 transcripts were classified into the circadian rhythm pathway. Compared with the expression of pseudo-response regulator protein 37 (PRR37) in photoperiod-sensitive varieties, that in photoperiod-insensitive varieties was upregulated. Among the differentially expressed transcripts (DETs), 8 MADS-box genes were identified. PRR37 is a key regulator of oat photoperiod insensitivity. The obtained transcriptome dataset may provide a reference for analyzing oat transcript expression, and the results should be used as a reference for oat breeding and production.
In early-weaning programs, dietary effects on calf rumen development have been studied extensively, but very little information is available about the effects of a solid diet on hepatic metabolism in preweaned dairy calves. The objective of this experiment was to determine the effect of physical form of oats in calf starter on the expression of key hepatic gluconeogenic, β-oxidation, and acute phase protein genes in preweaned dairy calves. Samples were analyzed from 3 experiments that fed either ground or whole oats in calf starters. Briefly, 7 calves were slaughtered at 5 wk of age in experiment 1, 6 were slaughtered at 6 wk in experiment 2, and 7 were slaughtered at 7 wk in experiment 3, and liver tissue was collected for gene expression analysis. Calves from experiments 1 and 2 were cannulated, and their rumen pH and volatile fatty acids were measured during treatment periods. The mRNA expression of gluconeogenic enzymes pyruvate carboxylase (PC), cytosolic and mitochondrial phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PCK1 and PCK2), fatty acid oxidation enzyme carnitine palmitoyltransferase I (CPT1), and positive acute phase protein haptoglobin (HPT) was measured by real-time quantitative reverse-transcriptase PCR. Expression of HPT was greater in calves fed whole oats than in calves fed ground oats; however, PC, PCK1, PCK2, and CPT1 were not affected by the physical form of oats. All enzymes (PCK1, PCK2, HPT, and CPT1) except PC were affected by experiment; PCK1 and CPT1 had greater expression in experiment 2 than in experiments 1 and 3. Expression of PCK2 was similar in experiments 2 and 3 but greater than experiment 1. Expression of HPT was similar in experiments 1 and 2 but greater than experiment 3. The mRNA expression of enzymes PCK1, PCK2, and CPT1 differed between experiments 1 and 2 and was negatively correlated with rumen propionate and butyrate but had a positive relationship with rumen acetate. Similarly, rumen pH was different in experiments 1 and 2, averaging 5.69 in experiment 1 and 4.81 in experiment 2, and there was a negative correlation between mRNA expression of rate-limiting gluconeogenic PCK1, PCK2, and β-oxidation CPT1 enzymes and rumen pH of calves in experiments 1 and 2. We concluded that the physical form of oats in calf starter did not affect gene expression of gluconeogenic and β-oxidation enzymes in preweaned dairy calves. However, lower rumen pH may be related to the upregulation of these enzymes.
Oat ranks sixth in world cereal production and has a higher content of health-promoting compounds compared with other cereals. However, there is neither a robust oat reference genome nor transcriptome. Using deeply sequenced full-length mRNA libraries of oat cultivar Ogle-C, a de novo high-quality and comprehensive oat seed transcriptome was assembled. With this reference transcriptome and QuantSeq 3' mRNA sequencing, gene expression was quantified during seed development from 22 diverse lines across six time points. Transcript expression showed higher correlations between adjacent time points. Based on differentially expressed genes, we identified 22 major temporal co-expression (TCoE) patterns of gene expression and revealed enriched gene ontology biological processes. Within each TCoE set, highly correlated transcripts, putatively commonly affected by genetic background, were clustered and termed genetic co-expression (GCoE) sets. Seventeen of the 22 TCoE sets had GCoE sets with median heritabilities higher than 0.50, and these heritability estimates were much higher than that estimated from permutation analysis, with no divergence observed in cluster sizes between permutation and non-permutation analyses. Linear regression between 634 metabolites from mature seeds and the PC1 score of each of the GCoE sets showed significantly lower p-values than permutation analysis. Temporal expression patterns of oat avenanthramides and lipid biosynthetic genes were concordant with previous studies of avenanthramide biosynthetic enzyme activity and lipid accumulation. This study expands our understanding of physiological processes that occur during oat seed maturation and provides plant breeders the means to change oat seed composition through targeted manipulation of key pathways.
Inflammatory bowel diseases are an important health problem. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to compare the impact of isolated oat beta-glucan fractions of low and high molecular weight, taken as dietary supplementation, on inflammatory markers in the colitis model. Two groups of Sprague-Dawley rats-control and with experimentally induced colitis-were subsequently divided into three subgroups and fed over 21 days feed supplemented with 1% of low (βGl) or high (βGh) molecular weight oat beta-glucan fraction or feed without supplementation. The level of colon inflammatory markers, cytokines, and their receptors' genes expressions and immune cells numbers were measured by ELISA, RT-PCR, and by flow cytometry methods, respectively. The results showed moderate inflammation affecting the colon mucosa and submucosa, with significant changes in the number of lymphocytes in the colon tissue, elevated cytokines and eicosanoid levels, as well as disruption of the main cytokine and chemokine cell signaling pathways in colitis rats. Beta-glucans supplementation caused a reverse in the percentage of lymphocytes with stronger effects of βGh and reduction of the levels of the inflammatory markers, and improvement of cytokine and chemokine signaling pathways with stronger effects of βGl supplementation. The results indicate the therapeutic effect of dietary oat beta-glucan supplementation in the colitis in evident relation to the molecular weight of polymer.
Oat (Avena sativa) and castor (Ricinus communis) accumulate a large amount of lipids in their endosperms, however the molecular mechanism remains unknown. In this study, differences in oil regulators between oat and wheat (Triticum aestivum) as well as common features between oat and castor were tested by analyzing their transcriptomes with further q-PCR analysis. Results indicated that WRINKLED1 (WRI1) homologs and their target genes highly expressed in the endosperms of oat and castor, but not in the starchy endosperms of wheat. Expression pattern of WRI1s was in agreement with that of oil accumulation. Three AsWRI1s (AsWRI1a, AsWRI1b and AsWRI1c) and one RcWRI1 were identified in the endosperms of oat and castor, respectively. AsWRI1c lacks VYL motif, which is different from the other three WRI1s. Expressions of these four WRI1s all complemented the phenotypes of Arabidopsis wri1-1 mutant. Overexpression of these WRI1s in Arabidopsis and tobacco BY2 cells increased oil contents of seeds and total fatty acids of the cells, respectively. Moreover, this overexpression also resulted in up-regulations of WRI1 target genes, such as PKp-β1. Taken together, our results suggest that high and functional expression of WRI1 play a key role in the oil-rich endosperms and the VYL motif is dispensable for WRI1 function.
Salicylic acid (SA) is involved in several plant processes including responses to abiotic stresses. Although SA is thought to interact with other regulatory molecules in a complex way, currently, little information is available regarding its molecular mechanisms of action in response to abiotic stresses. In a previous work, we observed that drought-resistant oat plants significantly increased their SA levels as compared with a susceptible cultivar. Furthermore, exogenous SA treatment alleviated drought symptoms. Here, we investigated the interaction between SA and polyamine biosynthesis during drought responses in oat and revealed that SA regulated polyamine biosynthesis through changes in polyamine gene expression. Overall, SA treatment decreased the levels of putrescine under drought conditions while increased those of spermine. This correlates with the downregulation of the ADC gene and upregulation of the AdoMetDC gene. Based on the presented results, we propose that SA modulates drought responses in oat by regulating polyamine content and biosynthesis.
This study examined the effect of climate change (CC) abiotic factors of temperature (20, 25, 30 °C), water activity (a
Light-sensing protein domains that link an exogenous light signal to the activity of an enzyme have attracted much attention for the engineering of new regulatory mechanisms into proteins and for studying the dynamic behavior of intracellular reactions and reaction cascades. Light-oxygen-voltage (LOV) photoreceptors are blue-light-sensing modules that have been intensely characterized for this purpose and linked to several proteins of interest. For the successful application of these tools, it is crucial to identify appropriate fusion strategies for combining sensor and enzyme domains that sustain activity and light-induced responsivity. Terminal fusion of LOV domains is the natural strategy; however, this is not transferrable to T7 RNA polymerase because both of its termini are involved in catalysis. It is shown herein that it is possible to covalently insert LOV domains into the polymerase protein, while preserving its activity and generating new light-responsive allosteric coupling.
Uniquely, oat, among cereals, accumulates an appreciable amount of oil in the endosperm together with starch. Oat is also recognized for its soluble fibers in the form of β-glucans. Despite high and increasing interest in oat yield and quality, the genetic and molecular understanding of oat grain development is still very limited. Transcription factors (TFs) are important regulatory components for plant development, product quality and yield. This study aimed to develop a workflow to determine seed tissue specificity of transcripts encoding transcription factors to reveal differential expression of potential importance for storage compound deposition and quality characters in oat. We created a workflow through the de novo assembly of sequenced seed endosperm and embryo, and publicly available oat seed RNAseq dataset, later followed by TF identification. RNAseq data were assembled into 33,878 transcripts with approximately 90% completeness. A total of 3875 putative TF encoding transcripts were identified from the oat hybrid assemblies. Members of the B3, bHLH, bZIP, C3H, ERF, NAC, MYB and WRKY families were the most abundant TF transcripts. A total of 514 transcripts which were differentially expressed between embryo and endosperm were identified with a threshold of 16-fold expression difference. Among those, 36 TF transcript homologs, belonging to 7 TF families, could be identified through similarity search in wheat embryo and endosperm EST libraries of NCBI Unigene database, and almost all the closest homologs were specifically expressed in seed when explored in WheatExp database. We verified our findings by cloning, sequencing and finally confirming differential expression of two TF encoding transcripts in oat seed embryo and endosperm. The developed workflow for identifying tissue-specific transcription factors allows further functional characterization of specific genes to increase our understanding of grain filling and quality.
The study aimed to investigate the immunomodulatory activity of oligopeptides derivedfrom oat (Avena Nuda L.) (OOPs). Healthy female BALB/c mice were randomly assigned to fivegroups, given deionized water (control) and 0.25, 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 g/kg body weight (BW) of OOPsdaily by intragastric administration. Seven assays were performed to determine theimmunomodulatory effects of OOPs on immune organ ratios, cellular and humoral immuneresponses, macrophage phagocytosis, and natural killer (NK) cell activity. Spleen T lymphocytesubpopulations (by flow cytometry), serum cytokine and immunoglobulin levels (by multiplexsandwich immunoassays) were determined to evaluate how OOPs affected the immune system.Our results showed that OOPs could significantly improve innate and adaptive immune responsesin mice through the enhancement of cell-mediated and humoral immunity, macrophagephagocytosis capacity, and NK cell activity. We concluded that the immunomodulatory effectsmight be attributed to increased T and Th cell percentages, serum interferon (IFN)-γ, interleukin(IL)-1 α, IL-2, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- α, and granulocyte-macrophagecolony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) secretions as well as immunoglobulin (Ig) A, IgG, and IgMproductions. These results indicate that dietary OOPs could be considered as promisingimmunomodulators with dosages ranging from 0.25 to 2.0 g/kg BW.
High accumulation of storage compounds such as oil and starch are economically important traits of most agricultural crops. The genetic network determining storage compounds composition in crops has been the target of many biotechnological endeavors. Especially WRINKLED1 (WRI1), a well-known key transcription factor involved in the allocation of carbon into oil, has attracted much interest. Here we investigate the presence of an autoregulatory system involving WRI1 through transient expression in
The precise spatiotemporal regulation of protein synthesis is essential for many complex biological processes such as memory formation, embryonic development, and tumor formation. Current methods used to study protein synthesis offer only a limited degree of spatiotemporal control. Optogenetic methods, in contrast, offer the prospect of controlling protein synthesis noninvasively within minutes and with a spatial scale as small as a single synapse. Here, we present a hybrid yeast system where growth depends on the activity of human eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) that is suitable for screening optogenetic designs for the down-regulation of protein synthesis. We used this system to screen a diverse initial panel of 15 constructs designed to couple a light switchable domain (PYP, RsLOV, AsLOV, Dronpa) to 4EBP2 (eukaryotic initiation factor 4E binding protein 2), a native inhibitor of translation initiation. We identified cLIPS1 (circularly permuted LOV inhibitor of protein synthesis 1), a fusion of a segment of 4EBP2 and a circularly permuted version of the LOV2 domain from Avena sativa, as a photoactivated inhibitor of translation. Adapting the screen for higher throughput, we tested small libraries of cLIPS1 variants and found cLIPS2, a construct with an improved degree of optical control. We show that these constructs can both inhibit translation in yeast harboring a human eIF4E in vivo, and bind human eIF4E in vitro in a light-dependent manner. This hybrid yeast system thus provides a convenient way for discovering optogenetic constructs that can regulate human eIF4E-dependent translation initiation in a mechanistically defined manner.
Natural polyphenols are promising anti-aging compounds not only for their antioxidant activity, but also their ability to activate specific cellular pathways mediating the aging process. Avenanthramide C (Avn C), found exclusively in oats, is a natural antioxidant associated with free radical scavenging; however, it is how this compound elicits other protective effects. We investigated the intracellular antioxidant activity of Avn C and other cytoprotective potential in normal human skin fibroblasts exposed to extracellular stress. Avn C reduced H
Protein kinases play a key role in plant cell homeostasis and the activation of defense mechanisms. Partial resistance to fungi in plants is interesting because of its durability. However, the variable number of minor loci associated with this type of resistance hampers the reliable identification of the full range of genes involved. The present work reports the technique of protein kinase (PK)-profiling for the identification of the PK genes induced in the partially resistant oats line MN841801-1 following exposure to the fungus Puccinia coronata. This is the first time this technique has been used with cDNA (complementary DNA) from a suppression subtractive hybridization library obtained after the hybridization of cDNAs from inoculated and mock-inoculated plants. Six degenerate primers based on the conserved domains of protein kinases were used in a PK-profiling assay including cDNA from mock-inoculated leaves and subtracted cDNA. Of the 75.7% of sequences cloned and sequenced that showed significant similarity to resistance genes, 76% were found to code for PKs. Translation and ClustalW2 alignment of each sequence cloned with the complete sequences of the most similar B. distachyon PKs allowed those of the partially resistant oat line to be deduced and characterized. Further, a phylogenetic study carried out after alignment of these B. distachyon PK sequences with the most similar protein sequences of related species also allowed to deduce different functions for the PK cloned. RT-qPCR (Reverse Transcription-quantitative PCR) was analyzed on nine representative sequences to validate the reliability of the employed PK-profiling method as a tool for identifying the expression of resistance-associated genes. PK-profiling would appear to be a useful tool for the identification of the PKs expressed in oats after challenge by P. coronata, and perhaps other pathogens. Most of the PKs studied are related to receptor-like protein kinases expressed shortly after infection. This is in agreement with previous studies indicating a close relationship between partial resistance and the first layer of defense against pathogen used by plants.
Oats are an important cereal crop worldwide, and they also serve as a phytoremediation crop to ameliorate salinized and alkalized soils. However, the mechanism of the oat response to alkali remains unclear. Physiological and tandem mass tag (TMT)-based proteomic analyses were employed to elucidate the mechanism of the oat response to alkali stress. Physiological and phenotypic data showed that oat root growth was inhibited more severely than shoot growth after alkali stress. In total, 164 proteins were up-regulated and 241 proteins were down-regulated in roots, and 93 proteins were up-regulated and 139 proteins were down-regulated in shoots. Under high pH stress, transmembrane proton transporters were down-regulated; conversely, organic acid synthesis related enzymes were increased. Transporters of N, P, Fe, Cu and Ca in addition to N assimilation enzymes in the root were highly increased. This result revealed that higher efficiency of P, Fe, Cu and Ca transport, especially higher efficiency of N intake and assimilation, greatly promoted oat root resistance to alkali stress. Furthermore, many resistance proteins, such as late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) mainly in shoots, GDSL esterase lipase mainly in roots, and WD40-like beta propeller repeat families, greatly accumulated to contribute to oat resistance to alkali stress. SIGNIFICANCE: In this study, physiological and tandem mass tag (TMT)-based proteomic analyses were employed to elucidate oats early seedlings in response to alkali stress. Many difference expression proteins were found involving in oats response to alkali stress. Also, higher efficiency transport of P, Fe, Cu, Ca and N greatly promoted oat resistance to alkali stress.
Salinity is one of the major abiotic factors that affect productivity in oat. Here, we report a comparison of the transcriptomes of two hexaploid oat cultivars, 'Hanyou-5' and 'Huazao-2', which differ with respect to salt tolerance, in seedlings exposed to salt stress. Analysis of the assembled unigenes from the osmotically stressed and control libraries of 'Hanyou-5' and 'Huazao-2' showed that the expression of 21.92% (36,462/166,326) of the assembled unigenes was differentially regulated in the two cultivars after different durations of salt stress. Bioinformatics analysis showed that the main functional categories enriched in these DEGs were "metabolic process", "response to stresses", "plant hormone signal transduction", "MAPK signalling", "oxidative phosphorylation", and the plant-pathogen interaction pathway. Some regulatory genes, such as those encoding MYB, WRKY, bHLH, and zinc finger proteins, were also found to be differentially expressed under salt stress. Physiological measurements also detected significant differences in the activities of POD (76.24 ± 1.07 Vs 81.53 ± 1.47 U/g FW) in the two genotypes in response to osmotic stress. Furthermore, differential expression of 18 of these genes was successfully validated using RNA-seq and qRT-PCR analyses. A number of stress-responsive genes were identified in both cultivars, and candidate genes with potential roles in the adaptation to salinity were proposed.
Oats produce avenacins, antifungal triterpenes that are synthesized in the roots and provide protection against take-all and other soilborne diseases. Avenacins are acylated at the carbon-21 position of the triterpene scaffold, a modification critical for antifungal activity. We have previously characterized several steps in the avenacin pathway, including those required for acylation. However, transfer of the acyl group to the scaffold requires the C-21β position to be oxidized first, by an as yet uncharacterized enzyme. We mined oat transcriptome data to identify candidate cytochrome P450 enzymes that may catalyse C-21β oxidation. Candidates were screened for activity by transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana. We identified a cytochrome P450 enzyme AsCYP72A475 as a triterpene C-21β hydroxylase, and showed that expression of this enzyme together with early pathway steps yields C-21β oxidized avenacin intermediates. We further demonstrate that AsCYP72A475 is synonymous with Sad6, a previously uncharacterized locus required for avenacin biosynthesis. sad6 mutants are compromised in avenacin acylation and have enhanced disease susceptibility. The discovery of AsCYP72A475 represents an important advance in the understanding of triterpene biosynthesis and paves the way for engineering the avenacin pathway into wheat and other cereals for control of take-all and other diseases.
Beta-glucans are biologically active polysaccharides having antioxidant, immunomodulatory, and antiinflammatory properties. This study investigated the transcriptomic profile in peripheral blood of rats with LPS-induced enteritis, which were fed a diet supplemented with high- (G1) and low- (G2) molecular-weight oat beta-glucans. Two-color rat gene expression microarrays were applied and the analysis was performed using a common reference design to provide easy means of comparing samples from various experimental conditions against one another. Common reference sample was labeled with cyanine 3 (Cy3) and investigated samples from each experimental group: C-G0 (control group fed semi-synthetic diet), LPS-G0 (LPS-challenged group fed semi-synthetic diet), LPS-G1 (LPS-challenged group fed G1 beta-glucan enriched diet), and LPS-G2 (LPS-challenged group fed G2 beta-glucan enriched diet) were labeled with cyanine 5 (Cy5). Each microarray was performed in quadruplicate. Statistical analysis was performed using one-way ANOVA and Tukey's HSD post-hoc test (p < 0.05). A multiple testing correction was performed using Benjamini and Hochberg False Discovery Rate < 5%. A quantitative real-time RT-PCR was performed to verify the expression of chosen transcripts. The microarray analyses revealed differentially expressed transcripts between: the LPS-G0 and the control groups: C-G0 (138 genes), the LPS-G1 and LPS-G0 groups (533 genes), and the LPS-G2 and LPS-G0 groups (97 genes). Several differentially expressed genes in the beta-glucan-supplemented groups encoded proteins belonging to TLR and NLR signaling pathways, as well as prostaglandin synthesis and regulation pathways. Both beta-glucans up-regulated the expression of Atg10, which belongs to the family of autophagy-related genes, suggesting a possible link between autophagy induction and beta-glucan supplementation. The changes in gene expression observed in the peripheral blood indicate that oat beta-glucans exerted a protective effect in rats with an induced inflammatory state caused by LPS challenge. The greater number of differentially expressed genes was observed in group supplemented with G1 beta-glucan, pointing at the differences in the mode of action of high- and low-molecular-weight beta-glucans in the organism.
1. An experiment was conducted to evaluate the effects of technical feed ingredients between 14 and 28 d of age on performance and health status of broilers (d 14-35) fed diets with a high inclusion rate of rapeseed meal as a nutritional challenge. It was hypothesized that the feed ingredients would improve health status related parameters. 2. A total of 1008 one-day-old male Ross 308 chicks were distributed over 36 floor pens and allocated to one of six iso-caloric (AME
The oat × maize addition (OMA) lines are used for mapping of the maize genome, the studies of centromere-specific histone (CENH3), gene expression, meiotic chromosome behavior and also for introducing maize C4 photosynthetic system to oat. The aim of our study was the identification and molecular-cytogenetic characterization of oat × maize hybrids. Oat DH lines and oat × maize hybrids were obtained using the wide crossing of A total of 138 oat lines obtained by crossing of 2,314 oat plants from 80 genotypes with maize cv. Waza were tested for the presence of maize chromosomes. The presence of maize chromatin was indicated in 66 lines by amplification of the PCR product (500 bp) generated using primers specific for the maize retrotransposon In wide hybridization of oat with maize, the complete or incomplete chromosomes elimination of maize occur. Hybrids of oat and maize had a complete set of oat chromosomes without maize chromosomes, and a complete set of oat chromosomes with one to four retained maize chromosomes.
Roots and root-released organic anions play important roles in uptake of phosphorus (P), an essential macronutrient for food production. Oat, ranking sixth in the world's cereal production, contains valuable nutritional compounds and can withstand poor soil conditions. Our aim was to investigate root transcriptional and metabolic responses of oat grown under P-deficient and P-sufficient conditions. We conducted a hydroponic experiment and measured root morphology and organic anion exudation, and analysed changes in the transcriptome and metabolome. Oat roots showed enhanced citrate and malate exudation after 4 weeks of P deficiency. After 10 d of P deficiency, we identified 9371 differentially expressed transcripts with a 2-fold or greater change (P<0.05): 48 sequences predicted to be involved in organic anion biosynthesis and efflux were consistently up-regulated; 24 up-regulated transcripts in oat were also found to be up-regulated upon P starvation in rice and wheat under similar conditions. Phosphorylated metabolites (i.e. glucose-6-phosphate, myo-inositol phosphate) were reduced dramatically, while citrate and malate, some sugars and amino acids increased slightly in P-deficient oat roots. Our data are consistent with a strategy of increased organic anion efflux and a shift in primary metabolism in response to P deficiency in oat.
Thaumatin-like proteins (TLPs) are the products of a large, highly complex gene family involved in host defense. TLPs also belong to the pathogenesis-related family 5 (PR-5) of plant defense proteins. Most TLPs exhibit potential antifungal activities, and their accumulation in the plant is related to many physiological processes. In this study, a gene encoding TLP named permatin with an open reading frame of 678 bp encoding a protein of 225 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 23.5 kDa was cloned from naked oat leaves. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that permatin shares high homology with a number of other TLPs among diverse taxa. Model of structure by homology modeling showed that permatin consists of an acidic cleft region consistent with most TLPs. Recombinant NusA-permatin was overexpressed in Escherichia coli strain BL21 and purified by Heparin column combined with Sephacryl S-200 column. The protein exhibited antifungal activity to Fusarium oxysporum (half maximal inhibitory concentration, IC
Weeds are serious problem in crop production and wild oat is a grass weed of economic and agronomic significance. We need to extend our basic knowledge of weeds especially in molecular genetics and gene expression. For study of gene expression by semi-quantitative and quantitative PCR, it is recommended that normalization of reference genes be carried out in order to select the most stable reference gene for a precise gene expression study. The purpose of this research was evaluation of four reference genes in response to treated and untreated (control) by herbicide in two tissues (stem and leaf) of non-target site resistance wild oat (A. ludoviciana). Four candidate reference genes including Actin, Ef1α (elongation factor 1 alpha), GAPDH (glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase) and TBP (TATA-box-binding protein) were used to determine stable reference gene exposed to the herbicide using the statistical methods of NormFinder, BestKeeper and delta-Ct. NormFinder indicated that TBP and Actin genes are the best combination of two genes for normalizing calculations (with a combined gene stability value of 0.012) for qPCR analysis under herbicide stress in different tissues of non-target site resistance wild oat. Based on the statistical results, the Ef1α gene was identified as the unstable reference gene. Totally, according to results of this study, TBP gene is the most stable reference gene and therefore, this gene can be used as a reference gene for future studies of quantitative PCR analysis of herbicide stress-responsive gene expression in wild oat and potentially in other grass weed species.
Mitochondria are the source of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in plant cells and play a central role in the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) and tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) cycles; however, ROS production and regulation for seed germination, seedling growth, as well as mitochondrial responses to abiotic stress, are not clear. This study was conducted to obtain basic information on seed germination, embryo mitochondrial antioxidant responses, and protein profile changes in artificial aging in oat seeds (
Nowadays, nanoparticles are extensively being utilized in medicine, industry, and agriculture thus distributed into the environment. Hence, it is essential to examine exactly the impact of these materials on a variety of organisms, including various species of plants. Therefore, in the current study, we compared the effects of sodium silicate and nano silicon (SiNP) (both at two concentrations of 5 and 10 mM) separately on lignification of the xylem cell wall, antioxidant enzyme activities, ultrastructure of leaf and root cells, expression of silicon transporter (Lsi1) and phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), and also evaluated the protein content and chemical content of oat plants (Avena sativa L.) cultured hydroponically. The results indicated that SiNPs didn't have a toxic effect on the oat plants, and in many cases they enhanced plant growth. The effect of SiNPs on the chemical content of the treated plants was almost identical with silicate. The silicon transporter (Lsi1) gene was expressed in plants exposed to SiNPs, however, at lower levels (∼37% in roots) than those exposed to silicate treatments. The SiNPs increased PAL expression and lignification in leaves and roots, however, at lower levels those of silicate (˃50% in fourth leaves of 10 mM concentration). They were aggregated in the roots (268-366 nm) and deposited in nano size on the cell walls of leaves. In general, their effects in the plants were identical to silicate but differed in intensity.
By putting heterologous genomic regulatory systems into contact, chromosome addition lines derived from interspecific or intergeneric crosses allow the investigation of transcriptional regulation in new genomic environments. Here, we report the transcriptional and epigenetic adaptation of stably inherited alien maize chromosomes in two oat-maize addition (OMA) lines. We found that the majority of maize genes displayed maize-specific transcription in the oat genomic environment. Nevertheless, a quarter of the expressed genes encoded by the two maize chromosomes were differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Notably, highly conserved orthologs were more severely differentially expressed in OMAs than less conserved orthologs. Additionally, syntenic genes and highly abundant genes were over-represented among DEGs. Gene suppression was more common than activation among the DEGs; however, the genes in the former maize pericentromere, which expanded to become the new centromere in OMAs, were activated. Histone modifications (H3K4me3, H3K9ac and H3K27me3) were consistent with these transcriptome results. We expect that cis regulation is responsible for unchanged expression in OMA versus maize; and trans regulation is the predominant mechanism behind DEGs. The genome interaction identified here reveals the important consequences of interspecific/intergeneric crosses and potential mechanisms of plant evolution when genomic environments interact.
Molecular studies of primary and secondary dormancy in Avena fatua L., a serious weed of cereal and other crops, are intended to reveal the species-specific details of underlying molecular mechanisms which in turn may be useable in weed management. Among others, quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) data of comparative gene expression analysis may give some insight into the involvement of particular wild oat genes in dormancy release, maintenance or induction by unfavorable conditions. To assure obtaining biologically significant results using this method, the expression stability of selected candidate reference genes in different data subsets was evaluated using four statistical algorithms i.e. geNorm, NormFinder, Best Keeper and ΔCt method. Although some discrepancies in their ranking outputs were noticed, evidently two ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme homologs, AfUBC1 and AfUBC2, as well as one homolog of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase AfGAPDH1 and TATA-binding protein AfTBP2 appeared as more stably expressed than AfEF1a (translation elongation factor 1α), AfGAPDH2 or the least stable α-tubulin homolog AfTUA1 in caryopses and seedlings of A. fatua. Gene expression analysis of a dormancy-related wild oat transcription factor VIVIPAROUS1 (AfVP1) allowed for a validation of candidate reference genes performance. Based on the obtained results it can be recommended that the normalization factor calculated as a geometric mean of Cq values of AfUBC1, AfUBC2 and AfGAPDH1 would be optimal for RT-qPCR results normalization in the experiments comprising A. fatua caryopses of different dormancy status.
We previously demonstrated that treatment of the H295R adrenocortical cancer cell line with the non-steroidal, high-affinity GPER (G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1) agonist G-1 reduced tumor growth
Habitual consumption of eggs has been hypothesized to positively modify biomarkers of cardiovascular disease risk through proposed antioxidant properties. To examine this relationship, 50 young, healthy men and women were enrolled into a randomized crossover clinical intervention. Participants consumed either 2 eggs per day or one packet of oatmeal a day for 4 weeks, followed by a 3-week wash-out and crossed over to the alternate breakfast. Fasting blood samples and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were collected at the end of each intervention period. Increases in plasma large high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and large low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particle concentrations as measured by nuclear magnetic resonance were found following egg consumption (p < 0.001, p < 0.05), respectively, with increases in apolipoprotein concentration as well (p < 0.05). Though there was no difference in the intake of antioxidants lutein and zeaxanthin, a significant increase in plasma concentrations of these carotenoids was observed (p < 0.001) after egg consumption. There was no change in lecithin-cholesterol acyl transferase, cholesteryl ester transfer protein, or paroxanase-1 arylesterase activities between breakfast interventions. Dietary and plasma choline were both higher following egg consumption compared to oatmeal consumption (p < 0.001); however, there was no change in plasma trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) concentrations. Two eggs per day had no impact on PBMC gene expression related to cholesterol metabolism, oxidation, or TMAO production. These results suggest that compared to oatmeal, consumption of 2 eggs for breakfast provided increased plasma carotenoids and improved biomarkers of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk while not affecting TMAO levels in this population.
Extensive herbicide usage has led to the evolution of resistant weed populations that cause substantial crop yield losses and increase production costs. The multiple herbicide resistant (MHR) Avena fatua L. populations utilized in this study are resistant to members of all selective herbicide families, across five modes of action, available for A. fatua control in U.S. small grain production, and thus pose significant agronomic and economic threats. Resistance to ALS and ACCase inhibitors is not conferred by target site mutations, indicating that non-target site resistance mechanisms are involved. To investigate the potential involvement of glutathione-related enzymes in the MHR phenotype, we used a combination of proteomic, biochemical, and immunological approaches to compare their constitutive activities in herbicide susceptible (HS1 and HS2) and MHR (MHR3 and MHR4) A. fatua plants. Proteomic analysis identified three tau and one phi glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) present at higher levels in MHR compared to HS plants, while immunoassays revealed elevated levels of lambda, phi, and tau GSTs. GST specific activity towards 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene was 1.2-fold higher in MHR4 than in HS1 plants and 1.3- and 1.2-fold higher in MHR3 than in HS1 and HS2 plants, respectively. However, GST specific activities towards fenoxaprop-P-ethyl and imazamethabenz-methyl were not different between untreated MHR and HS plants. Dehydroascorbate reductase specific activity was 1.4-fold higher in MHR than HS plants. Pretreatment with the GST inhibitor NBD-Cl did not affect MHR sensitivity to fenoxaprop-P-ethyl application, while the herbicide safener and GST inducer mefenpyr reduced the efficacy of low doses of fenoxaprop-P-ethyl on MHR4 but not MHR3 plants. Mefenpyr treatment also partially reduced the efficacy of thiencarbazone-methyl or mesosulfuron-methyl on MHR3 or MHR4 plants, respectively. Overall, the GSTs described here are not directly involved in enhanced rates of fenoxaprop-P-ethyl or imazamethabenz-methyl metabolism in MHR A. fatua. Instead, we propose that the constitutively elevated GST proteins and related enzymes in MHR plants are representative of a larger, more global suite of abiotic stress-related changes.
Changes in allosteric regulation of glycolytic enzymes have been linked to metabolic reprogramming involved in cancer. Remarkably, allosteric mechanisms control enzyme function at significantly shorter time-scales compared to the long-term effects of metabolic reprogramming on cell proliferation. It remains unclear if and how the speed and reversibility afforded by rapid allosteric control of metabolic enzymes is important for cell proliferation. Tools that allow specific, dynamic modulation of enzymatic activities in mammalian cells would help address this question. Towards this goal, we have used molecular dynamics simulations to guide the design of mPKM2 internal light/oxygen/voltage-sensitive domain 2 (LOV2) fusion at position D24 (PiL[D24]), an engineered pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) variant that harbours an insertion of the light-sensing LOV2 domain from Avena Sativa within a region implicated in allosteric regulation by fructose 1,6-bisphosphate (FBP). The LOV2 photoreaction is preserved in the PiL[D24] chimera and causes secondary structure changes that are associated with a 30% decrease in the K
Plants are an excellent source of drug leads. However availability is limited by access to source species, low abundance and recalcitrance to chemical synthesis. Although plant genomics is yielding a wealth of genes for natural product biosynthesis, the translation of this genetic information into small molecules for evaluation as drug leads represents a major bottleneck. For example, the yeast platform for artemisinic acid production is estimated to have taken >150 person years to develop. Here we demonstrate the power of plant transient transfection technology for rapid, scalable biosynthesis and isolation of triterpenes, one of the largest and most structurally diverse families of plant natural products. Using pathway engineering and improved agro-infiltration methodology we are able to generate gram-scale quantities of purified triterpene in just a few weeks. In contrast to heterologous expression in microbes, this system does not depend on re-engineering of the host. We next exploit agro-infection for quick and easy combinatorial biosynthesis without the need for generation of multi-gene constructs, so affording an easy entrée to suites of molecules, some new-to-nature, that are recalcitrant to chemical synthesis. We use this platform to purify a suite of bespoke triterpene analogs and demonstrate differences in anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory activity in bioassays, providing proof of concept of this system for accessing and evaluating medicinally important bioactives. Together with new genome mining algorithms for plant pathway discovery and advances in plant synthetic biology, this advance provides new routes to synthesize and access previously inaccessible natural products and analogs and has the potential to reinvigorate drug discovery pipelines.
Two new peroxygenases for the biosynthesis of epoxy fatty acids in oat were identified and functionally analyzed by heterologous expression along with rationally designed site-directed mutagenesis. Oat (Avena sativa L.) contains a large family of peroxygenases, a group of heme-containing monooxygenases catalyzing hydroperoxide-dependent epoxidation of unsaturated fatty acids. Here, we report identification and functional analysis of two new peroxygenases AsPXG2 and AsPXG3 from oat. The open reading frame (ORF) of AsPXG2 contains 702 bps encoding a polypeptide of 233 amino acids, while the ORF of AsPXG3 is 627 bps coding for 208 amino acids. Both AsPXG2 and AsPXG3 comprise a single transmembrane domain, conserved histidines for heme binding and a conserved EF-hand motif for calcium binding, but they only share about 50% amino acid sequence identity with each other. When expressed in Escherichia coli and Pichia pastoris, AsPXG3 showed high epoxidation activity, while AsPXG2 exhibited no activity in E. coli and low activity in P. pastoris. AsPXG3 could effectively epoxidize both mono- and polyunsaturated fatty acids with linolenic acid being the most preferred substrate. Site-directed mutagenesis was employed to investigate the structure-function relationship of oat peroxygenase on 12 conserved residues of AsPXG3. Replacement of two conserved histidines, the ligands to the prosthetic heme group of the peroxygenase, by alanine resulted in complete loss of activity. Substitution of three conserved residues surrounding the two histidines resulted in reduction of the enzymatic activity by more than 80%. These results imply that these conserved residues might be located in or near the catalytic pocket, where the two histidine residues coordinate the heme group and the surrounding residues define the shape and size of the pocket for interaction with the heme as well as two substrates.
Avena sativa L., 1753 (Poaceae) is used as feed for livestock and as a crop rotation agent. The purpose of the study was to examine the molecular mechanisms behind the antihelminth activity of the oat saponins avenacoside B (AveB) and 26-desglucoavenacoside B (26DGAveB) by evaluating their effect on Heligmosomoides bakeri, a parasitic nematode of mice. The avenacosides AveB and 26DGAveB were separated and purified from A. sativa green leaves, and their mycotoxic activity was confirmed against the fungus Trichoderma harzianum. The anti-nematode activity of the avenacosides was measured by egg hatching assay. In the surviving L3 larvae exposed to avenacosides, the expression of CED-9, a protein of the apoptosis pathway, was identified by Western blotting. The protein profile of L3 larvae was monitored by High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC). The action of saponins on glycoprotein pump (Pgp) activity in L3 larvae was compared to that of the pump blocker Verapamil (VPL). A mouse model was used to measure the infectivity of L3 larvae exposed to AveB and 26DGAveB, and the outcome of the immune response. Both compounds induced morphological changes in larvae and blocked Pgp activity; however, only 26DGAveB provoked expression of CED-9. The infected mice displayed changes in the molecular pattern of larval proteins and enhanced IL-4 production, indicating that avenacosides reduced the infectivity of H. bakeri larvae. In avenacosides, the residue without glucose at the C26 position demonstrated greater anti-nematode activity. Our findings indicate that A. sativa compounds are natural products with anti-parasitic activity.
Intensive use of herbicides has led to the evolution of two multiple herbicide-resistant (MHR) Avena fatua (wild oat) populations in Montana that are resistant to members of all selective herbicide families available for A. fatua control in US small grain crops. We used transcriptome and proteome surveys to compare constitutive changes in MHR and herbicide-susceptible (HS) plants associated with non-target site resistance. Compared to HS plants, MHR plants contained constitutively elevated levels of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with functions in xenobiotic catabolism, stress response, redox maintenance and transcriptional regulation that are similar to abiotic stress-tolerant phenotypes. Proteome comparisons identified similarly elevated proteins including biosynthetic and multifunctional enzymes in MHR plants. Of 25 DEGs validated by RT-qPCR assay, differential regulation of 21 co-segregated with flucarbazone-sodium herbicide resistance in F Although the individual and collective contributions of these DEGs and proteins to MHR remain to be determined, our results support the idea that intensive herbicide use has selected for MHR populations with altered, constitutively regulated patterns of gene expression that are similar to those in abiotic stress-tolerant plants. © 2017 Society of Chemical Industry.
The genus Avena comprises four distinct genomes organized in diploid (AA or CC), tetraploid (AABB or AACC) and hexaploid species (AACCDD), constituting an interesting model for phylogenetic analysis. The aim of this work was to characterize 45S rDNA intergenic spacer (IGS) variability in distinct species representative of Avena genome diversity-A. strigosa (AA), A. ventricosa (CvCv), A. eriantha (CpCp), A. barbata (AABB), A. murphyi (AACC), A. sativa (AACCDD) and A. sterilis (AACCDD) through the assessment of the 5' external transcribed spacer (5'-ETS), a promising IGS region for phylogenetic studies poorly studied in Avena genus. In this work, IGS length polymorphisms were detected mainly due to distinct 5'-ETS sequence types resulting from major differences in the number and organization of repeated motifs. Although species with A genome revealed a 5'-ETS organization (A-organization) similar to the one previously described in A. sativa, a distinct organization was unraveled in C genome diploid species (C-organization). Interestingly, such new organization presents a higher similarity with other Poaceae species than A-genome sequences, supporting the hypothesis of C-genome being the ancestral Avena genome. Additionally, polyploid species with both genomes mainly retain the A-genome 5'-ETS organization, confirming the preferential elimination of C-genome sequences in Avena polyploid species. Moreover, 5'-ETS sequences phylogenetic analysis consistently clustered the species studied according to ploidy and genomic constitution supporting the use of ribosomal genes to highlight Avena species evolutive pathways.
Multiflorous spikelets are found in several grass species of agricultural and economic interest. In oat, this morphological characteristic is associated with the production of naked grains. Although many genetic studies have been performed over the past century, the inheritance of the multiflorous spikelet trait is not fully understood in oat. The objectives of this study were to evaluate environmental effects on the multiflorous spikelet trait, to estimate the number of genes controlling the trait, and to clone and characterize sequences of the AP2 gene in oat. Two genetic populations of recombinant inbreed lines were screened for the multiflorous spikelet trait from different years and sowing dates under field experiments. Normal, multiflorous, and mosaic spikelets were analyzed in the whole panicle for both years and sowing dates. Specific primer pairs for the AP2 gene was utilized to amplify and clone oat sequences. The results demonstrate that under higher temperature and day-length conditions, the variable expressivity of the multiflorous spikelet trait was less pronounced in both populations. Genetic analyses indicated the action of one major gene and two or three modifying genes controlling the expression of the multiflorous spikelet trait in oat, depending on the genetic background. Sequences with similarity to the AP2 gene were isolated from the oat lines UFRGS 017004-2 and URS Taura, and genetic polymorphisms were identified, which are valuable to confirm the action of AP2 on the multiflorous spikelet trait. Our results provide information to assist in the development of future studies of the multiflorous spikelet trait in oat.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the cholesterol-lowering properties of oats are only partly known. To study possible pathways involved, we investigated gene expressions in the liver and small intestine of mice fed oats. Cholesterol and bile acids were analyzed in plasma and feces from LDL-receptor deficient (LDLr Whole oats attenuated responses typically induced by high-fat diet. Increased expression of genes for intestinal bile acid uptake following oat consumption suggests retention in the gut lumen rather than decreased uptake capacity as cause for the increased bile acid excretion and the concomitant reduction of plasma cholesterol.
Oat is a cereal crop of global importance used for food, feed, and forage. Understanding salinity stress tolerance mechanisms in plants is an important step towards generating crop varieties that can cope with environmental stresses. To date, little is known about the salt tolerance of oat at the molecular level. To better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying salt tolerance in oat, we investigated the transcriptomes of control and salt-treated oat using RNA-Seq. Using Illumina HiSeq 4000 platform, we generated 72,291,032 and 356,891,432 reads from non-stressed control and salt-stressed oat, respectively. Assembly of 64 Gb raw sequence data yielded 128,414 putative unique transcripts with an average length of 1,189 bp. Analysis of the assembled unigenes from the salt stressed and control libraries indicated that about 65,000 unigenes were differentially expressed at different stages. Functional annotation showed that ABC transporters, plant hormone signal transduction, plant-pathogen interactions, starch and sucrose metabolism, arginine and proline metabolism, and other secondary metabolite pathways were enriched under salt stress. Based on the RPKM values of assembled unigenes, 24 differentially expressed genes under salt stress were selected for quantitative RT-PCR validation, which successfully confirmed the results of RNA-Seq. Furthermore, we identified 18,039 simple sequence repeats, which may help further elucidate salt tolerance mechanisms in oat. Our global survey of transcriptome profiles of oat plants in response to salt stress provides useful insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying salt tolerance in this crop. These findings also represent a rich resource for further analysis of salt tolerance and for breeding oat with improved salt tolerance through the use of salt-related genes.
In the absence of a reference genome, the ultimate goal of a de novo transcriptome assembly is to accurately and comprehensively reconstruct the set of messenger RNA transcripts represented in the sample. Non-reference assembly of the transcriptome of polyploid species poses a particular challenge because of the presence of homeologs that are difficult to disentangle at the sequence level. This is especially true for hexaploid oats, which have three highly similar subgenomes, two of which are thought to be nearly identical. Under these circumstances, most software packages and established pipelines encounter difficulties in rendering an accurate transcriptome because they are typically developed, refined, and tested for diploid organisms. We present a protocol for transcriptome assembly in oats that can be extended both to other polyploids and species with highly duplicated genomes.
Oat protoplasts are a useful and convenient system to study transient expression using whole cells. Nucleic acid can rapidly be introduced into live cells, and, depending on the assay, results can be collected the same day. Compared to plant tissue, oat cell suspension cultures provide a simple, high yielding, and consistent means to isolate protoplasts. Here, we describe how to generate an oat cell suspension culture from callus grown on solidified medium, and how to maintain the oat cells in cell suspension culture for protoplast preparation. Following the culturing procedure, we describe how to isolate oat protoplasts from cell suspension culture by enzymatic digestion of the cell walls and to transiently express nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) into the cells by electroporation.
This chapter describes methods to detect gene loci or gene transcripts by fluorescence labeling. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) can be used to identify the positions of genes or BACs or the distribution of repetitive sequences on metaphase chromosomes as well as the identification of alien chromosomes. It enables the identification of gene loci and active transcription sites in interphase nuclei and also the localization of cellular transcripts. The protocols here deal with the production of DNA and RNA probes, the preparation of oat metaphase spreads and root tissue sections, the subsequent hybridization, post-hybridization washes, and detection by immunofluorescence.
The number of people who cannot consume dairy products due to intolerance or allergies to food components is increasing. Consumers are increasingly searching for alternative, nondairy beverages which have an advantageous effect on the body and which stimulate gut microflora. Previous studies have shown that Streptococcus thermophilus T
The ability of plants to match their reproductive output with favorable environmental conditions has major consequences both for lifetime fitness and geographic patterns of diversity. In temperate ecosystems, some plant species have evolved the ability to use winter nonfreezing cold (vernalization) as a cue to ready them for spring flowering. However, it is unknown how important the evolution of vernalization responsiveness has been for the colonization and subsequent diversification of taxa within the northern and southern temperate zones. Grasses of subfamily Pooideae, including several important crops, such as wheat (Triticum aestivum), barley (Hordeum vulgare), and oats (Avena sativa), predominate in the northern temperate zone, and it is hypothesized that their radiation was facilitated by the early evolution of vernalization responsiveness. Predictions of this early origin hypothesis are that a response to vernalization is widespread within the subfamily and that the genetic basis of this trait is conserved. To test these predictions, we determined and reconstructed vernalization responsiveness across Pooideae and compared expression of wheat vernalization gene orthologs VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1) and VRN3 in phylogenetically representative taxa under cold and control conditions. Our results demonstrate that vernalization responsive Pooideae species are widespread, suggesting that this trait evolved early in the lineage and that at least part of the vernalization gene network is conserved throughout the subfamily. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the evolution of vernalization responsiveness was important for the initial transition of Pooideae out of the tropics and into the temperate zone.
Oats contain unique bioactive compounds known as avenanthramides (AVAs) with antioxidant properties. AVAs might enhance the endogenous antioxidant cellular response by activation of the transcription factor Nrf2. Accumulation of reactive oxygen species plays a critical role in many chronic and degenerative diseases, including osteoporosis. In this disease, there is an imbalance between bone formation by osteoblasts and bone resorption by osteoclasts, which is accompanied by increased osteoblast/osteocyte apoptosis and decreased osteoclast apoptosis. We investigated the ability of the synthethic AVAs 2c, 2f and 2p, to 1-regulate gene expression in bone cells, 2-affect the viability of osteoblasts, osteocytes and osteoclasts, and the generation of osteoclasts from their precursors, and 3-examine the potential involvement of the transcription factor Nrf2 in these actions. All doses of AVA 2c and 1 and 5 µM dose of 2p up-regulated collagen 1A expression. Lower doses of AVAs up-regulated OPG (osteoprotegerin) in OB-6 osteoblastic cells, whereas 100 μM dose of 2f and all concentrations of 2c down-regulated RANKL gene expression in MLO-Y4 osteocytic cells. AVAs did not affect apoptosis of OB-6 osteoblastic cells or MLO-Y4 osteocytic cells; however, they prevented apoptosis induced by the DNA topoisomerase inhibitor etoposide, the glucocorticoid dexamethasone, and hydrogen peroxide. AVAs prevented apoptosis of both wild type (WT) and Nrf2 Knockout (KO) osteoblasts, demonstrating that AVAs-induced survival does not require Nrf2 expression. Further, KO osteoclast precursors produced more mature osteoclasts than WT; and KO cultures exhibited less apoptotic osteoclasts than WT cultures. Although AVAs did not affect WT osteoclasts, AVA 2p reversed the low apoptosis of KO osteoclasts. These in vitro results demonstrate that AVAs regulate, in part, the function of osteoblasts and osteocytes and prevent osteoblast/osteocyte apoptosis and increase osteoclast apoptosis; further, these regulatory actions are independent of Nrf2.
Oats (Avena sativa) are a centuries-old topical treatment for a variety of skin barrier conditions, including dry skin, skin rashes, and eczema; however, few studies have investigated the actual mechanism of action for the skin barrier strengthening activity of colloidal oatmeal. Four extracts of colloidal oatmeal were prepared with various solvents and tested in vitro for skin barrier related gene expression and activity. Extracts of colloidal oatmeal were found to induce the expression of genes related to epidermal differentiation, tight junctions and lipid regulation in skin, and provide pH-buffering capacity. Colloidal oatmeal boosted the expression of multiple target genes related to skin barrier, and resulted in recovery of barrier damage in an in vitro model of atopic dermatitis. In addition, an investigator-blinded study was performed with 50 healthy female subjects who exhibited bilateral moderate to severe dry skin on their lower legs. Subjects were treated with a colloidal oatmeal skin protectant lotion. Clinically, the colloidal oatmeal lotion showed significant clinical improvements in skin dryness, moisturization, and barrier. Taken together, these results demonstrate that colloidal oatmeal can provide clinically effective benefits for dry and compromised skin by strengthening skin barrier.<br /><br /> <em>J Drugs Dermatol</em>. 2016;15(6):684-690.
Vitamin E is essential for humans and thus must be a component of a healthy diet. Among the cereal grains, hexaploid oats (Avena sativa L.) have high vitamin E content. To date, no gene sequences in the vitamin E biosynthesis pathway have been reported for oats. Using deep sequencing and orthology-guided assembly, coding sequences of genes for each step in vitamin E synthesis in oats were reconstructed, including resolution of the sequences of homeologs. Three homeologs, presumably representing each of the three oat subgenomes, were identified for the main steps of the pathway. Partial sequences, likely representing pseudogenes, were recovered in some instances as well. Pairwise comparisons among homeologs revealed that two of the three putative subgenome-specific homeologs are almost identical for each gene. Synonymous substitution rates indicate the time of divergence of the two more similar subgenomes from the distinct one at 7.9-8.7 MYA, and a divergence between the similar subgenomes from a common ancestor 1.1 MYA. A new proposed evolutionary model for hexaploid oat formation is discussed. Homeolog-specific gene expression was quantified during oat seed development and compared with vitamin E accumulation. Homeolog expression largely appears to be similar for most of genes; however, for some genes, homoeolog-specific transcriptional bias was observed. The expression of HPPD, as well as certain homoeologs of VTE2 and VTE4, is highly correlated with seed vitamin E accumulation. Our findings expand our understanding of oat genome evolution and will assist efforts to modify vitamin E content and composition in oats.
Plants are a tremendous source of diverse chemicals, including many natural product-derived drugs. It has recently become apparent that the genes for the biosynthesis of numerous different types of plant natural products are organized as metabolic gene clusters, thereby unveiling a highly unusual form of plant genome architecture and offering novel avenues for discovery and exploitation of plant specialized metabolism. Here we show that these clustered pathways are characterized by distinct chromatin signatures of histone 3 lysine trimethylation (H3K27me3) and histone 2 variant H2A.Z, associated with cluster repression and activation, respectively, and represent discrete windows of co-regulation in the genome. We further demonstrate that knowledge of these chromatin signatures along with chromatin mutants can be used to mine genomes for cluster discovery. The roles of H3K27me3 and H2A.Z in repression and activation of single genes in plants are well known. However, our discovery of highly localized operon-like co-regulated regions of chromatin modification is unprecedented in plants. Our findings raise intriguing parallels with groups of physically linked multi-gene complexes in animals and with clustered pathways for specialized metabolism in filamentous fungi.
Although the protective role of androgen receptor (AR) in breast cancer (BC) is well established, the mechanisms involved remains largely unexplored. MicroRNAs play fundamental roles in many biological processes, including tumor cell development and metastasis. Herein, we report that androgens reduce BC cells proliferation acting as a negative modulator of the onco-miRNA-21.The synthetic androgen miboleron (Mib) decreases BC cell proliferation induced by miR-21 over-expression and AR knockdown evidenced the requirement of AR in the down-regulation of miR-21 expression. These effects seem to be a general mechanism occurring in BC tissues.Chromatin immune-precipitation (ChIP) analysis disclosed the binding of AR to a specific ARE sequence in miR-21 proximal promoter and recognizes the recruitment of HDAC3 as component for AR-mediated transcriptional repression. Such event is associated to a significantly reduced PolII binding in Mib treated extracts confirming that activated AR is a transcriptional repressor of miR-21 expression, providing further insight into the protective role of androgens in breast cancer cells.Collectively, our data and the widespread AR expression in primary and metastatic breast tumours, suggest a careful examination of the therapeutic potential of androgens also in potentiating the effectiveness of anti-oestrogen adjuvant therapies.
Optogenetics provides new ways to activate gene transcription; however, no attempts have been made as yet to modulate mammalian transcription factors. We report the light-mediated regulation of the repressor element 1 (RE1)-silencing transcription factor (REST), a master regulator of neural genes. To tune REST activity, we selected two protein domains that impair REST-DNA binding or recruitment of the cofactor mSin3a. Computational modeling guided the fusion of the inhibitory domains to the light-sensitive Avena sativa light-oxygen-voltage-sensing (LOV) 2-phototrophin 1 (AsLOV2). By expressing AsLOV2 chimeras in Neuro2a cells, we achieved light-dependent modulation of REST target genes that was associated with an improved neural differentiation. In primary neurons, light-mediated REST inhibition increased Na(+)-channel 1.2 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor transcription and boosted Na(+) currents and neuronal firing. This optogenetic approach allows the coordinated expression of a cluster of genes impinging on neuronal activity, providing a tool for studying neuronal physiology and correcting gene expression changes taking place in brain diseases.
Oat is considered as a moderately salt-tolerant crop that could be used to improve saline and alkaline soil. Previous studies have focused on short-term salt stress exposure (0.5-48 h), while molecular mechanisms of salt tolerance in oat remain unclear. Long-term salt stress (16 days) increased the levels of superoxide dismutase activity, peroxidase activity, malondialdehyde content, putrescine content, spermidine content and soluble sugar content and reduced catalase activity in oat roots. The stress also caused changes in protein profiles in the roots. At least 1400 reproducible protein spots were identified in a two-dimensional electrophoresis gel, among which 23 were differentially expressed between treated vs control plants and 13 were identified using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. These differentially expressed proteins are involved in five types of biological process: (1) two fructose-bisphosphate aldolases, four alcohol dehydrogenases, an enolase, a UDP-glucuronic acid decarboxylase and an F1-ATPase alpha subunit related to carbohydrate and energy metabolism; (2) a choline monooxygenase related to stress and defense; (3) a lipase related to fat metabolism; (4) a polyubiquitin related to protein degradation; (5) a 14-3-3 protein related to signaling. © 2015 Society of Chemical Industry.
The lipid phase of the thylakoid membrane is mainly composed of the galactolipids mono- and digalactosyl diacylglycerol (MGDG and DGDG, respectively). It has been known since the late 1960s that MGDG can be acylated with a third fatty acid to the galactose head group (acyl-MGDG) in plant leaf homogenates. In certain brassicaceous plants like Arabidopsis thaliana, the acyl-MGDG frequently incorporates oxidized fatty acids in the form of the jasmonic acid precursor 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid (OPDA). In the present study we further investigated the distribution of acylated and OPDA-containing galactolipids in the plant kingdom. While acyl-MGDG was found to be ubiquitous in green tissue of plants ranging from non-vascular plants to angiosperms, OPDA-containing galactolipids were only present in plants from a few genera. A candidate protein responsible for the acyl transfer was identified in Avena sativa (oat) leaf tissue using biochemical fractionation and proteomics. Knockout of the orthologous gene in A. thaliana resulted in an almost total elimination of the ability to form both non-oxidized and OPDA-containing acyl-MGDG. In addition, heterologous expression of the A. thaliana gene in E. coli demonstrated that the protein catalyzed acylation of MGDG. We thus demonstrate that a phylogenetically conserved enzyme is responsible for the accumulation of acyl-MGDG in A. thaliana. The activity of this enzyme in vivo is strongly enhanced by freezing damage and the hypersensitive response.
The objective of the present research was to study the impact of lead (Pb) on growth, metal uptake and antioxidative potential of oat seeds under metal stress. To achieve these objectives, few experiments were conducted to assess the effect of this particular metal on various anti-oxidative enzymes, during initial metabolism after germination, in presence of lead. Pb is not an oxido-reducing metal, the oxidative stress induced by Pb in growing oat seedlings appears to be an indirect effect of Pb toxicity, leading to production of ROS with simultaneous decrease in tissue levels of superoxide dismutase and catalase. Content of free radical like superoxide anion and metabolite such as H2O2 were found to be more in plumule as compared to radical and endosperm of oat seedling. In response to various concentrations of lead ranging from 25-400 ppm, activities of peroxidase, glutathione peroxidase and ascorbate peroxidase were induced in plumule, radical and cotyledon on the 3rd, 6th and 9th days after germination. Growth parameters like length, fresh weight and dry weight were substantially affected in addition to reduced germination upto 49% only. The results indicated that even at the lowest concentration tested, a low inhibition of growth was obtained.
Barley is an attractive vehicle for producing recombinant protein, since it is a readily transformable diploid crop species in which doubled haploids can be routinely generated. High amounts of protein are naturally accumulated in the grain, but optimal endosperm-specific promoters have yet to be perfected. Here, the oat GLOBULIN1 promoter was combined with the legumin B4 (LeB4) signal peptide and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention signal (SE)KDEL. Transgenic barley grain accumulated up to 1.2 g/kg dry weight of recombinant protein (GFP), deposited in small roundish compartments assumed to be ER-derived protein bodies. The molecular farming potential of the system was tested by generating doubled haploid transgenic lines engineered to synthesize the anti-HIV-1 monoclonal antibody 2G12 with up to 160 μg recombinant protein per g grain. The recombinant protein was deposited at the periphery of protein bodies in the form of a mixture of various N-glycans (notably those lacking terminal N-acetylglucosamine residues), consistent with their vacuolar localization. Inspection of protein-A purified antibodies using surface plasmon resonance spectroscopy showed that their equilibrium and kinetic rate constants were comparable to those associated with recombinant 2G12 synthesized in Chinese hamster ovary cells.
Essential oils have growth regulating properties comparable to the well-documented methyl jasmonate and may be involved in localized and/or airborne plant communication. Aromatic plants employ large amounts of resources to produce essential oils. Some essential oils are known to contain compounds with plant growth regulating activities. However, the potential capacity of essential oils as airborne molecules able to modulate plant growth/development has remained uninvestigated. Here, we demonstrate that essential oils from eight taxonomically diverse plants applied in their airborne state inhibited auxin-induced elongation of Pisum sativum hypocotyls and Avena sativa coleoptiles. This response was also observed using five monoterpenes commonly found in essential oils as well as isoprene, the basic building block of terpenes. Upon transfer to ambient conditions, A. sativa coleoptiles resumed elongation, demonstrating an antagonistic relationship rather than toxicity. Inclusion of essential oils, monoterpenes, or isoprene into the headspace of culture vessels induced abnormal cellular growth along hypocotyls of Arabidopsis thaliana. These responses were also elicited by methyl jasmonate (MeJA); however, where methyl jasmonate inhibited root growth essential oils did not. Gene expression studies in A. thaliana also demonstrated differences between the MeJA and isoprenoid responses. This series of experiments clearly demonstrate that essential oils and their isoprenoid components interact with endogenous plant growth regulators when applied directly or as volatile components in the headspace. The similarities between isoprenoid and MeJA responses suggest that they may act in plant defence signalling. While further studies are needed to determine the ecological and evolutionary significance, the results of this study and the specialized anatomy associated with aromatic plants suggest that essential oils may act as airborne signalling molecules.
In addition to their fermentable dietary fiber and the soluble β-glucan fiber, oats have unique avenanthramides that have anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties that reduce coronary heart disease in human clinical trials. We hypothesized that oat consumption will increase insulin sensitivity, reduce body fat, and improve health span in Caenorhabditis elegans through a mechanism involving the daf-2 gene, which codes for the insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1-like receptor, and that hyperglycemia will attenuate these changes. Caenorhabditis elegans wild type (N2) and the null strains sir-2.1, daf-16, and daf-16/daf-2 were fed Escherichia coli (OP50) and oat flakes (0.5%, 1.0%, or 3%) with and without 2% glucose. Oat feeding decreased intestinal fat deposition in N2, daf-16, or daf-16/daf-2 strains (P < .05); and glucose did not affect intestinal fat deposition response. The N2, daf-16, or sir-2.1 mutant increased the pharyngeal pumping rate (P < .05), a surrogate marker of life span, following oat consumption. Oat consumption increased ckr-1, gcy-8, cpt-1, and cpt-2 mRNA expression in both the N2 and the sir-2.1 mutant, with significantly higher expression in sir-2.1 than in N2 (P < .01). Additional glucose further increased expression 1.5-fold of the 4 genes in N2 (P < .01), decreased the expression of all except cpt-1 in the daf-16 mutant, and reduced mRNA expression of the 4 genes in the daf-16/daf-2 mutant (P < .01). These data suggest that oat consumption reduced fat storage and increased ckr-1, gcy-8, cpt-1, or cpt-2 through the sir-2.1 genetic pathway. Oat consumption may be a beneficial dietary intervention for reducing fat accumulation, augmenting health span, and improving hyperglycemia-impaired lipid metabolism.
Carbon accumulation and remobilization are essential mechanisms in plants to ensure energy transfer between plant tissues with different functions or metabolic needs and to support new generations. Knowledge about the regulation of carbon allocation into oil (triacylglycerol) in plant storage tissue can be of great economic and environmental importance for developing new high-yielding oil crops. Here, the effect on global gene expression as well as on physiological changes in leaves transiently expressing five homologs of the transcription factor WRINKLED1 (WRI1) originating from diverse species and tissues; Arabidopsis thaliana and potato (Solanum tuberosum) seed embryo, poplar (Populus trichocarpa) stem cambium, oat (Avena sativa) grain endosperm, and nutsedge (Cyperus esculentus) tuber parenchyma, were studied by agroinfiltration in Nicotiana benthamiana. All WRI1 homologs induced oil accumulation when expressed in leaf tissue. Transcriptome sequencing revealed that all homologs induced the same general patterns with a drastic shift in gene expression profiles of leaves from that of a typical source tissue to a source-limited sink-like tissue: Transcripts encoding enzymes for plastid uptake and metabolism of phosphoenolpyruvate, fatty acid and oil biosynthesis were up-regulated, as were also transcripts encoding starch degradation. Transcripts encoding enzymes in photosynthesis and starch synthesis were instead down-regulated. Moreover, transcripts representing fatty acid degradation were up-regulated indicating that fatty acids might be degraded to feed the increased need to channel carbons into fatty acid synthesis creating a futile cycle. RT-qPCR analysis of leaves expressing Arabidopsis WRI1 showed the temporal trends of transcripts selected as 'markers' for key metabolic pathways one to five days after agroinfiltration. Chlorophyll fluorescence measurements of leaves expressing Arabidopsis WRI1 showed a significant decrease in photosynthesis, even though effect on starch content could not be observed. This data gives for the first time a general view on the transcriptional transitions in leaf tissue upon induction of oil synthesis by WRI1. This yields important information about what effects WRI1 may exert on global gene expression during seed and embryo development. The results suggest why high oil content in leaf tissue cannot be achieved by solely transcriptional activation by WRI1, which can be essential knowledge in the development of new high-yielding oil crops.
Chromosome elimination occurs frequently in interspecific hybrids between distantly related species in Poaceae. However, chromosomes from both parents behave stably in a hybrid of female oat (Avena sativa L.) pollinated by pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum L.). To analyze the chromosome behavior in this hybrid, we cloned the centromere-specific histone H3 (CENH3) genes of oat and pearl millet and produced a pearl millet-specific anti-CENH3 antibody. Application of this antibody together with a grass species common anti-CENH3 antibody revealed the dynamic CENH3 composition of the hybrid cells before and after fertilization. Despite co-expression of CENH3 genes encoded by oat and pearl millet, only an oat-type CENH3 was incorporated into the centromeres of both species in the hybrid embryo. Oat CENH3 enables a functional centromere in pearl millet chromosomes in an oat genetic background. Comparison of CENH3 genes among Poaceae species that show chromosome elimination in interspecific hybrids revealed that the loop 1 regions of oat and pearl millet CENH3 exhibit exceptionally high similarity.
Sudan virus (SUDV), like the closely related Ebola virus (EBOV), is a filovirus that causes severe hemorrhagic disease. They both contain an RNA editing site in the glycoprotein gene that controls expression of soluble and full-length protein. We tested the consequences of cell culture passage on the genome sequence at the SUDV editing site locus and determined whether this affected virulence. Passage resulted in expansion of the SUDV editing site, similar to that observed with EBOV. We compared viruses possessing either the wild-type or expanded editing site, using a nonhuman primate model of disease. Despite differences in virus serum titer at one time point, there were no significant differences in time to death or any other measured parameter. These data imply that changes at this locus were not important for SUDV lethality.
We took a rather unique approach to investigate the conservation of gene expression of prolamin storage protein genes across two different subfamilies of the Poaceae. We took advantage of oat plants carrying single maize chromosomes in different cultivars, called oat-maize addition (OMA) lines, which permitted us to determine whether regulation of gene expression was conserved between the two species. We found that γ-zeins are expressed in OMA7.06, which carries maize chromosome 7 even in the absence of the trans-acting maize prolamin-box-binding factor (PBF), which regulates their expression. This is likely because oat PBF can substitute for the function of maize PBF as shown in our transient expression data, using a γ-zein promoter fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP). Despite this conservation, the younger, recently amplified prolamin genes in maize, absent in oat, are not expressed in the corresponding OMAs. However, maize can express the oldest prolamin gene, the wheat high-molecular weight glutenin Dx5 gene, even when maize Pbf is knocked down (through PbfRNAi), and/or another maize transcription factor, Opaque-2 (O2) is knocked out (in maize o2 mutant). Therefore, older genes are conserved in their regulation, whereas younger ones diverged during evolution and eventually acquired a new repertoire of suitable transcriptional activators.
Activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) has been shown to have an important role in skin barrier function by regulating differentiation and lipid synthesis in keratinocytes. Oat (Avena sativa) has long been used as a soothing agent to relieve skin irritations, and the clinical benefits of topical oat formulations have been proven; however, the mechanistic understanding of oat's mode of action remains unknown. We investigated whether an oat lipid extract could activate PPARs and subsequently increase epidermal lipid synthesis and differentiation markers. Primary human epidermal keratinocytes and transformed cell lines were treated with PPAR agonists and oat lipid extracts to investigate the PPAR agonism. PPAR target genes and epidermal differentiation markers were analysed using quantitative real-time PCR and HPTLC analysis. Oat lipid extract demonstrated robust dual agonism for PPARα and PPARβ/δ, and increased direct PPAR target gene induction in primary human keratinocytes. In addition, oat oil treatment increased both receptor expression and, consistent with the literature on PPARs, oat oil treatment resulted in a significant upregulation of differentiation genes (involucrin, SPRRs and transglutaminase 1) and ceramide processing genes (β-glucocerebrosidase, sphingomyelinases 3 and ABCA12). Further, oat oil treatment in keratinocytes significantly increased ceramide levels (70%), suggesting a functional translation of PPAR activation by oat oil in keratinocytes. Taken together, these results demonstrate that oat lipids possess robust dual agonistic activities for PPARα and PPARβ/δ, increase their gene expression and induce differentiation and ceramide synthesis in keratinocytes, which can collectively improve skin barrier function.
The tumour suppressor activity of the phosphatase and tensin homologue on chromosome 10 (PTEN) is subject of intense investigative efforts, although limited information on its regulation in breast cancer is available. Herein, we report that, in breast cancer cells, progesterone (OHPg), through its cognate receptor PR-B, positively modulates PTEN expression by inducing its mRNA and protein levels, and increasing PTEN-promoter activity. The OHPg-dependent up-regulation of PTEN gene activity requires binding of the PR-B to an Sp1-rich region within the PTEN gene promoter. Indeed, ChIP and EMSA analyses showed that OHPg treatment induced the occupancy of PTEN promoter by PR and Sp1 together with transcriptional coactivators such as SRC1 and CBP. PR-B isoform knockdown abolished the complex formation indicating its specific involvement. The OHPg/PR-B dependent induction of PTEN causes the down-regulation of PI3K/AKT signal, switching on the autophagy process through an enhanced expression of UVRAG and leading to a reduced cell survival. Altogether these findings highlight a novel functional connection between OHPg/PR-B and tumour suppressor pathways in breast cancer.
Among cereals, Avena sativa is characterized by an extremely soft endosperm texture, which leads to some negative agronomic and technological traits. On the basis of the well-known softening effect of puroindolines in wheat kernel texture, in this study, indolines and their encoding genes are investigated in Avena species at different ploidy levels. Three novel 14 kDa proteins, showing a central hydrophobic domain with four tryptophan residues and here named vromindoline (VIN)-1,2 and 3, were identified. Each VIN protein in diploid oat species was found to be synthesized by a single Vin gene whereas, in hexaploid A. sativa, three Vin-1, three Vin-2 and two Vin-3 genes coding for VIN-1, VIN-2 and VIN-3, respectively, were described and assigned to the A, C or D genomes based on similarity to their counterparts in diploid species. Expression of oat vromindoline transgenes in the extra-hard durum wheat led to accumulation of vromindolines in the endosperm and caused an approximate 50 % reduction of grain hardness, suggesting a central role for vromindolines in causing the extra-soft texture of oat grain. Further, hexaploid oats showed three orthologous genes coding for avenoindolines A and B, with five or three tryptophan residues, respectively, but very low amounts of avenoindolines were found in mature kernels. The present results identify a novel protein family affecting cereal kernel texture and would further elucidate the phylogenetic evolution of Avena genus.
The function of many eukaryotic proteins is regulated by highly dynamic changes in their nucleocytoplasmic distribution. The ability to precisely and reversibly control nuclear translocation would, therefore, allow dissecting and engineering cellular networks. Here we develop a genetically encoded, light-inducible nuclear localization signal (LINuS) based on the LOV2 domain of Avena sativa phototropin 1. LINuS is a small, versatile tag, customizable for different proteins and cell types. LINuS-mediated nuclear import is fast and reversible, and can be tuned at different levels, for instance, by introducing mutations that alter AsLOV2 domain photo-caging properties or by selecting nuclear localization signals (NLSs) of various strengths. We demonstrate the utility of LINuS in mammalian cells by controlling gene expression and entry into mitosis with blue light.
Sterols have important functions in membranes and signaling. Plant sterols are synthesized via the isoprenoid pathway by cyclization of 2,3-oxidosqualene to cycloartenol. Plants also convert 2,3-oxidosqualene to other sterol-like cyclization products, including the simple triterpene β-amyrin. The function of β-amyrin per se is unknown, but this molecule can serve as an intermediate in the synthesis of more complex triterpene glycosides associated with plant defense. β-Amyrin is present at low levels in the roots of diploid oat (Avena strigosa). Oat roots also synthesize the β-amyrin-derived triterpene glycoside avenacin A-1, which provides protection against soil-borne diseases. The genes for the early steps in avenacin A-1 synthesis [saponin-deficient 1 and 2 (Sad1 and Sad2)] have been recruited from the sterol pathway by gene duplication and neofunctionalization. Here we show that Sad1 and Sad2 are regulated by an ancient root developmental process that is conserved across diverse species. Sad1 promoter activity is dependent on an L1 box motif, implicating sterol/lipid-binding class IV homeodomain leucine zipper transcription factors as potential regulators. The metabolism of β-amyrin is blocked in sad2 mutants, which therefore accumulate abnormally high levels of this triterpene. The accumulation of elevated levels of β-amyrin in these mutants triggers a "superhairy" root phenotype. Importantly, this effect is manifested very early in the establishment of the root epidermis, causing a greater proportion of epidermal cells to be specified as root hair cells rather than nonhair cells. Together these findings suggest that simple triterpenes may have widespread and as yet largely unrecognized functions in plant growth and development.
A trade-off between a pathogen's ability to infect many hosts and its reproductive capacity on each host genotype is predicted to limit the evolution of an expanded host range, yet few empirical results provide evidence for the magnitude of such trade-offs. Here, we test the hypothesis for a trade-off between the number of host genotypes that a fungal pathogen can infect (host genotype range) and its reproductive capacity on susceptible plant hosts. We used strains of the oat crown rust fungus that carried widely varying numbers of virulence (avr) alleles known to determine host genotype range. We quantified total spore production and the expression of four pathogen life-history stages: infection efficiency, time until reproduction, pustule size, and spore production per pustule. In support of the trade-off hypothesis, we found that virulence level, the number of avr alleles per pathogen strain, was correlated with significant delays in the onset of reproduction and with smaller pustule sizes. Modeling from our results, we conclude that trade-offs have the capacity to constrain the evolution of host genotype range in local populations. In contrast, long-term trends in virulence level suggest that the continued deployment of resistant host lines over wide regions of the United States has generated selection for increased host genotype range.
The enzyme p-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPPD) is ubiquitous in plants and functions in the tyrosine catabolic pathway, resulting in the formation of homogentisate. Homogentisate is the aromatic precursor of all plastoquinones and tocochromanols, including tocopherols and tocotrienols. Soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) has been genetically modified to express the gene avhppd-03 that encodes the protein AvHPPD-03 derived from oat (Avena sativa L.). The AvHPPD-03 isozyme has an inherent reduced binding affinity for mesotrione, a herbicide that inhibits the wild-type soybean HPPD enzyme. Expression of avhppd-03 in soybean plants confers a mesotrione-tolerant phenotype. Seeds from three different avhppd-03-expressing soybean events were quantitatively assessed for content of eight vitamin E isoforms. Although increased levels of two tocopherol isoforms were identified for each of the three soybean events, they were within, or not substantially different from, the ranges of these isoforms found in nontransgenic soybean varieties. The increases of these tocopherols in the avhppd-03-expressing soybean events may have a slight benefit with regard to vitamin E nutrition but, given the commercial processing of soybeans, are unlikely to have a material impact on human nutrition with regard to vitamin E concentrations in soybean oil.
Oat blue dwarf virus (OBDV) is a member of the genus Marafivirus whose genome encodes a 227 kDa polyprotein (p227) ostensibly processed post-translationally into its functional components. Encoded near the 3' terminus and coterminal with the p227 ORF are ORFs specifying major and minor capsid proteins (CP). Since the CP expression strategy of marafiviruses has not been thoroughly investigated, we produced a series of point mutants in the OBDV CP encoding gene and examined expression in protoplasts. Results support a model in which the 21 kDa major CP is the product of direct translation of a sgRNA, while the 24 kDa minor CP is a cleavage product derived from both the polyprotein and a larger ~26 kDa precursor translated directly from the sgRNA. Cleavage occurs at an LXG[G/A] motif conserved in many viruses that use papain-like proteases for polyprotein processing and protection against degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome system.
The Sobemovirus genome consists of polycistronic single-stranded positive-sense RNA. The first ORF encodes P1, a suppressor of RNA silencing required for virus movement. The coat protein (CP) is expressed from the 3' proximal ORF3 via subgenomic RNA. In addition to its structural role, the CP of some sobemoviruses has been reported to be required for systemic movement and to interact with P1. The aim of this study was to analyse the role of Cocksfoot mottle virus (CfMV) CP in the suppression of RNA silencing and virus movement. Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression method was used for testing CfMV CP capacity to suppress RNA silencing. CP substitution and deletion mutants were generated to examine the role of this protein in CfMV infection, using three host plants (oat, barley and wheat). The viral movement was characterised with CfMV expressing EGFP fused to the C-terminus of CP. In the current study we show that CfMV CP is an additional RNA silencing suppressor. Interestingly, we observed that all CP mutant viruses were able to infect the three tested host plants systemically, although usually with reduced accumulation. CfMV expressing EGFP was detected in epidermal and mesophyll cells of inoculated leaves. Although EGFP fluorescence was not detected in upper leaves, some plants displayed CfMV symptoms. Analysis of the upper leaves revealed that the viruses had lost the EGFP sequence and sometimes also most of the CP gene. The present study demonstrates that CfMV CP suppresses RNA silencing but, surprisingly, is dispensable for systemic movement. Thus, CfMV does not move as virion in the tested host plants. The composition of the movement RNP complex remains to be elucidated.
A key role in signal transduction and dimerization mediated by Per-Arnt-Sim (PAS) domains is played by α-helical linkers that flank the structurally similar α/β cores of these domains. However, crystal-packing forces and the different construct lengths and sequences of the PAS domains influence the final length and orientation of the linkers relative to the core and create uncertainty in the exact mechanism of the linker function. Thus, structural characterization and comparison of the linkers within isolated PAS-domain constructs and/or full-length PAS-containing proteins is important for clarification of the mechanism. The plant blue-light photoreceptors phototropins possess two N-terminal flavin mononucleotide-based light, oxygen or voltage (LOV) domains (LOV1 and LOV2) that comprise a subclass of the PAS family and one C-terminal serine/threonine kinase domain whose enzymatic activity is regulated by blue light. The dark-adapted state crystal structures of the Arabidopsis thaliana phototropin 1 and phototropin 2 LOV1-domain constructs flanked by an N-terminal A'α helix and the structure of the phototropin 2 core LOV2 domain are known. Here, the crystal structure of the A. thaliana phototropin 1 LOV2 domain has been determined in its dark-adapted state. The core is flanked by an N-terminal A'α helix and a C-terminal Jα helix similar to those in the previously reported structure of Avena sativa phototropin 1 LOV2. In contrast to the monomeric A. sativa LOV2, A. thaliana LOV2 is a dimer in which two A'α helices adopt a scissor-like orientation at the dimer interface and form a short α-helical coiled coil. The Jα helix predominantly interacts with the β-sheet and plays a role in coiled-coil formation and dimerization.
Glutathione peroxidases (GPXs) are a group of enzymes that protect cells against oxidative damage generated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). GPX catalyzes the reduction of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) or organic hydroperoxides to water or alcohols by reduced glutathione. The presence of GPXs in plants has been reported by several groups, but the roles of individual members of this family in a single plant species have not been studied. Two GPX cDNAs were isolated and characterized from the embryogenic callus of Panax ginseng. The two cDNAs had an open reading frame (ORF) of 723 and 681bp with a deduced amino acid sequence of 240 and 226 residues, respectively. The calculated molecular mass of the matured proteins are approximately 26.4kDa or 25.7kDa with a predicated isoelectric point of 9.16 or 6.11, respectively. The two PgGPXs were elevated strongly by salt stress and chilling stress in a ginseng seedling. In addition, the two PgGPXs showed different responses against biotic stress. The positive responses of PgGPX to the environmental stimuli suggested that ginseng GPX may help to protect against environmental stresses.
A xylanase gene was isolated from the genomic DNA of Streptomyces coelicolor Ac-738. The 723-bp full-length gene encoded a 241-amino acid peptide consisting of a 49-residue putative TAT signal peptide and a glycoside hydrolase family-11 domain. The mature enzyme called XSC738 was expressed in Escherichia coli M15[pREP4]. The electrophoretically homogeneous protein with a specific activity of 167 U/mg for beechwood xylan was purified. The pH optimum of XSC738 was at pH 6; a high activity was retained within a pH range of 4.5-8.5. The enzyme was thermostable at 50-60 °C and retained an activity at pH 3.0-7.0. Xylanase XSC738 was activated by Mn²⁺, Co²⁺ and largely inhibited by Cd²⁺, SDS and EDTA. The products of xylan hydrolysis were mainly xylobiose, xylotriose, xylopentaose and xylohexose. Xylotetraose appeared as a minor product. Processing of such agricultural xylan-containing products as wheat, oats, soy flour and wheat bran by xylanase resulted in an increased content of sugars.
Cold acclimation (CA) results in an increase in freezing tolerance of plants, which is closely associated to functional changes of the plasma membrane (PM). Although proteomic studies have revealed compositional changes of the PM during CA, there has been no large-scale study of how the microdomains in the PM, which contains specific lipids and proteins, change during CA. Therefore, we conducted semiquantitative shotgun proteomics using microdomain-enriched detergent-resistant membrane (DRM) fractions extracted from low freezing-tolerant oat and highly freezing-tolerant rye. We identified 740 and 809 DRM proteins in oat and rye, respectively. Among the proteins identified, the abundances of a variety of proteins, such as P-type ATPase and aquaporins, were affected by CA in both oat and rye. Some CA-responsive proteins in the DRM fractions, such as heat shock protein 70, changed differently in oat and rye. In addition, changes in lipocalins and sugar transporters in the DRM fractions were different from those found in total PM fraction during CA. This is the first report to describe compositional changes in the DRM during CA. The proteomic profiles obtained in the present study hint at many possible microdomain functions associated with CA and freezing tolerance.
Defensins are a large family of small, cysteine-rich, basic proteins, produced by most plants and plant tissues. They have a primary function in defence against fungal disease, although other functions have been described. This study reports the isolation and characterization of a class I secreted defensin (NaD2) from the flowers of Nicotiana alata, and compares its antifungal activity with the class II defensin (NaD1) from N. alata flowers, which is stored in the vacuole. NaD2, like all other class I defensins, lacks the C-terminal pro-peptide (CTPP) characteristic of class II defensins. NaD2 is most closely related to Nt-thionin from N. tabacum (96% identical) and shares 81% identity with MtDef4 from alfalfa. The concentration required to inhibit in vitro fungal growth by 50% (IC50 ) was assessed for both NaD1 and NaD2 for the biotrophic basidiomycete fungi Puccinia coronata f. sp. avenae (Pca) and P. sorghi (Ps), the necrotrophic pathogenic ascomycetes Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. vasinfectum (Fov), F. graminearum (Fgr), Verticillium dahliae (Vd) and Thielaviopsis basicola (Tb), and the saprobe Aspergillus nidulans. NaD1 was a more potent antifungal molecule than NaD2 against both the biotrophic and necrotrophic fungal pathogens tested. NaD2 was 5-10 times less effective at killing necrotrophs, but only two-fold less effective on Puccinia species. A new procedure for testing antifungal proteins is described in this study which is applicable to pathogens with spores that are not amenable to liquid culture, such as rust pathogens. Rusts are the most damaging fungal pathogens of many agronomically important crop species (wheat, barley, oats and soybean). NaD1 and NaD2 inhibited urediniospore germination, germ tube growth and germ tube differentiation (appressoria induction) of both Puccinia species tested. NaD1 and NaD2 were fungicidal on Puccinia species and produced stunted germ tubes with a granular cytoplasm. When NaD1 and NaD2 were sprayed onto susceptible oat plants prior to the plants being inoculated with crown rust, they reduced the number of pustules per leaf area, as well as the amount of chlorosis induced by infection. Similar to observations in vitro, NaD1 was more effective as an antifungal control agent than NaD2. Further investigation revealed that both NaD1 and NaD2 permeabilized the plasma membranes of Puccinia spp. This study provides evidence that both secreted (NaD2) and nonsecreted (NaD1) defensins may be useful for broad-spectrum resistance to pathogens.
Members of the cytochromes P450 superfamily (P450s) catalyze a huge variety of oxidation reactions in microbes and higher organisms. Most P450 families are highly divergent, but in contrast the cytochrome P450 14α-sterol demethylase (CYP51) family is one of the most ancient and conserved, catalyzing sterol 14α-demethylase reactions required for essential sterol synthesis across the fungal, animal, and plant kingdoms. Oats (Avena spp.) produce antimicrobial compounds, avenacins, that provide protection against disease. Avenacins are synthesized from the simple triterpene, β-amyrin. Previously we identified a gene encoding a member of the CYP51 family of cytochromes P450, AsCyp51H10 (also known as Saponin-deficient 2, Sad2), that is required for avenacin synthesis in a forward screen for avenacin-deficient oat mutants. sad2 mutants accumulate β-amyrin, suggesting that they are blocked early in the pathway. Here, using a transient plant expression system, we show that AsCYP51H10 is a multifunctional P450 capable of modifying both the C and D rings of the pentacyclic triterpene scaffold to give 12,13β-epoxy-3β,16β-dihydroxy-oleanane (12,13β-epoxy-16β-hydroxy-β-amyrin). Molecular modeling and docking experiments indicate that C16 hydroxylation is likely to precede C12,13 epoxidation. Our computational modeling, in combination with analysis of a suite of sad2 mutants, provides insights into the unusual catalytic behavior of AsCYP51H10 and its active site mutants. Fungal bioassays show that the C12,13 epoxy group is an important determinant of antifungal activity. Accordingly, the oat AsCYP51H10 enzyme has been recruited from primary metabolism and has acquired a different function compared to other characterized members of the plant CYP51 family--as a multifunctional stereo- and regio-specific hydroxylase in plant specialized metabolism.
We have previously shown that estrogens binding to estrogen receptor (ER) α increase proliferation of Leydig tumor cells. Estrogens can also bind to G protein-coupled ER (GPER) and activation of this receptor can either increase or decrease cell proliferation of several tumor types. The aim of this study was to investigate GPER expression in R2C rat tumor Leydig cells, evaluate effects of its activation on Leydig tumor cell proliferation and define the molecular mechanisms triggered in response to its activation. R2C cells express GPER and its activation, using the specific ligand G-1, is associated with decreased cell proliferation and initiation of apoptosis. Apoptosis after G-1 treatment was asserted by appearance of DNA condensation and fragmentation, decrease in Bcl-2 and increase in Bax expression, cytochrome c release, caspase and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) activation. These effects were dependent on GPER activation because after silencing of the gene, using a specific small interfering RNA, cyt c release, PARP-1 activation and decrease in cell proliferation were abrogated. These events required a rapid, however, sustained extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 activation. G-1 was able to decrease the growth of R2C xenograft tumors in CD1 nude mice while increasing the number of apoptotic cells. In addition, in vivo administration of G-1 to male CD1 mice did not cause any alteration in testicular morphology, while cisplatin, the cytotoxic drug currently used for the therapy of Leydig tumors, severely damaged testicular structure, an event associated with infertility in cisplatin-treated patients. These observations indicate that GPER targeting for the therapy of Leydig cell tumor may represent a good alternative to cisplatin to preserve fertility in Leydig tumor patients.
Plant-microbe interactions in the rhizosphere have important roles in biogeochemical cycling, and maintenance of plant health and productivity, yet remain poorly understood. Using RNA-based metatranscriptomics, the global active microbiomes were analysed in soil and rhizospheres of wheat, oat, pea and an oat mutant (sad1) deficient in production of anti-fungal avenacins. Rhizosphere microbiomes differed from bulk soil and between plant species. Pea (a legume) had a much stronger effect on the rhizosphere than wheat and oat (cereals), resulting in a dramatically different rhizosphere community. The relative abundance of eukaryotes in the oat and pea rhizospheres was more than fivefold higher than in the wheat rhizosphere or bulk soil. Nematodes and bacterivorous protozoa were enriched in all rhizospheres, whereas the pea rhizosphere was highly enriched for fungi. Metabolic capabilities for rhizosphere colonisation were selected, including cellulose degradation (cereals), H2 oxidation (pea) and methylotrophy (all plants). Avenacins had little effect on the prokaryotic community of oat, but the eukaryotic community was strongly altered in the sad1 mutant, suggesting that avenacins have a broader role than protecting from fungal pathogens. Profiling microbial communities with metatranscriptomics allows comparison of relative abundance, from multiple samples, across all domains of life, without polymerase chain reaction bias. This revealed profound differences in the rhizosphere microbiome, particularly at the kingdom level between plants.
Next generation sequencing provides new opportunities to explore transcriptomes. However, challenges remain for accurate differentiation of homoeoalleles and paralogs, particularly in polyploid organisms with no supporting genome sequence. In this study, RNA-Seq was employed to generate and characterize the first gene expression atlas for hexaploid oat. The software packages Trinity and Oases were used to produce a transcript assembly from nearly 134 million 100-bp paired-end reads from developing oat seeds. Based on the quality-parameters employed, Oases assemblies were superior. The Oases 67-kmer assembly, denoted dnOST (de novo Oat Seed Transcriptome), is over 55 million nucleotides in length and the average transcript length is 1,043 nucleotides. The 74.8× sequencing depth was adequate to differentiate a large proportion of putative homoeoalleles and paralogs. To assess the robustness of dnOST, we successfully identified gene transcripts associated with the biosynthetic pathways of three compounds with health-promoting properties (avenanthramides, tocols, β-glucans), and quantified their expression. To our knowledge, this study provides the first direct performance comparison between two major assemblers in a polyploid organism. The workflow we developed provides a useful guide for comparable analyses in other organisms. The transcript assembly developed here is a major advance. It expands the number of oat ESTs 3-fold, and constitutes the first comprehensive transcriptome study in oat. This resource will be a useful new tool both for analysis of genes relevant to nutritional enhancement of oat, and for improvement of this crop in general.
Yorkshire fog (Holcus lanatus), which belongs to the Poaceae family and is a close relative of the agronomic crop oat (Avena sativa), is a widely adaptable grass species that is able to grow on highly acidic soils with high levels of Al, but the mechanism underlying the high Al tolerance is unknown. Here, we characterized two accessions of H. lanatus collected from an acid plot (soil pH 3.6, HL-A) and a neutral plot (pH 7.1, HL-N) in terms of Al tolerance, organic acid anion secretion and related gene expression. In response to Al (pH 4.5), the HL-A roots secreted approximately twice as much malate as the HL-N roots, but there was no difference in citrate secretion. Cloning of the gene HlALMT1 responsible for malate secretion showed that the encoded amino acid sequence did not differ between two accessions, but the expression level in the outer cell layers of the HL-A roots was twice as high as in the HL-N roots. This difference was not due to the genomic copy number, but was due to the number of cis-acting elements for an Al-responsive transcription factor (HlART1) in the promoter region of HlALMT1, as demonstrated by both a yeast one-hybrid assay and a transient assay in tobacco protoplasts. Furthermore, introduction of HlALMT1 driven by the HL-A promoter into rice resulted in significantly more Al-induced malate secretion than introduction of HlALMT1 driven by the HL-N promoter. These findings indicate that the adaptation of H. lanatus to acidic soils may be achieved by increasing number of cis-acting elements for ART1 in the promoter region of the HlALMT1 gene, enhancing the expression of HlALMT1 and the secretion of malate.
The genus Pythium consists of more than 120 species and is subdivided into 11 phylogenetic clades (A-K) based on internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region sequence data. Pythium clade G contains only seven known species, with most not being well described. Our study characterized 12 Pythium isolates from Aspalathus linearis (rooibos) that fit into clade G. Phylogenetic analyses of the ITS region and a combined phylogeny of four gene regions (ITS, β-tubulin, COX1 and COX2 [cytochrome c oxidase subunits I, II]) identified five clade G subclades. The rooibos isolates formed two groups, Pythium Rooibos I (RB I) and II (RB II), that clustered into two separate clades within subclade 1. The nine Pythium RB I isolates formed a distinct clade from P. iwayamai and is described here as a new species, Pythium cederbergense sp. nov. The three Pythium RB II isolates had P. canariense and P. violae as their closest relatives and were genetically diverse, suggesting the presence of several new species or a species complex that cannot be resolved with the current data, thus precluding a species description of this group. Morphological analyses showed that P. cederbergense and Pythium RB II were indistinguishable from each other but distinct from known clade G species. Clade G studies are being hampered by imprecise morphological descriptions of P. violae, P. canariense and P. iwayamai and each species being represented by only one isolate. The P. cederbergense and Pythium RB II isolates all were nonpathogenic toward rooibos, lupin and oats seedlings. One oligonucleotide was developed for each of P. cederbergense and Pythium RB II, which was able to differentiate the isolates with DNA macro-array analyses.
To elucidate genetic mechanisms of host species specificity between graminicolous anthracnose fungi and gramineous plants, infection assays were performed with a Sorghum isolate (Colletotrichum sublineolum), a Digitaria isolate (C. hanaui), a Polypogon isolate (C. cereale), and an Avena isolate (C. cereale). They were specifically virulent on the plants from which they were isolated. When 72 wheat lines were inoculated with an unadapted isolate from Asia Minor bluegrass (Cgp29), however, some exceptional cultivars were recognized. Although most cultivars were resistant to Cgp29, 'Hope' was susceptible. In F2 populations derived from crosses between three resistant cultivars-'Norin 4' (N4), 'Chinese Spring' (CS), and 'Shin-chunaga' (Sch)-and the susceptible Hope, resistant and susceptible seedlings segregated in a 3:1 ratio, suggesting that a major gene is involved in the resistance of each cultivar to Cgp29. In F2 populations derived from crosses between the three resistant cultivars, all seedlings were resistant, suggesting that these three cultivars carry the same gene. This resistance gene was designated as "resistance to Colletotrichum cereale 1" (Rcc1). Analysis with the CS-Hope chromosome substitution lines and molecular mapping revealed that Rcc1 was located on the long arm of chromosome 5A. Cytologically, Rcc1 was mainly associated with hypersensitive reaction. These results suggest that major genes similar to those controlling cultivar specificity are involved in the resistance of wheat against the unadapted isolate of C. cereale.
Gravitropic curvature of pulvini of wheat and oat stem segments gradually declined with decreasing atmospheric O₂ concentration and was almost completely blocked under anoxia, whereas that of rice stem segments was enhanced under hypoxia and anoxia. Anoxia substantially increased the ethanol content in pulvini of gravistimulated stem segments in rice, wheat and oat, but the ethanol content showed no marked difference between rice pulvini and wheat and oat pulvini. The concentrations of exogenous ethanol and acetaldehyde required to inhibit the gravitropic curvature of pulvini were significantly higher in rice segments than in wheat and oat segments. However, in all three species, the concentrations of ethanol and acetaldehyde required to completely inhibit curvature were several-fold higher than the endogenous levels that accumulated in pulvini gravistimulated in N₂. The pulvini of rice segments gravistimulated in N₂ did not contain much more ATP than those of wheat or oat segments gravistimulated in N₂. When applied unilaterally to the pulvini of vertically oriented stem segments incubated in N₂, indole-3-acetic acid induced bending in rice stem segments but not in wheat and oat stem segments. Transference of graviresponsive pulvini of rice, as well as those of wheat and oat, from aerobic conditions to anaerobic conditions led to cessation of gravitropic curvature within several minutes, but subsequently only gravitropic curvature of anoxic rice pulvini was completely recovered within 2 h. A large portion of this recovery was blocked by cordycepin, a transcription inhibitor. These results suggested that anoxia-induced expression of any gene or genes enables rice pulvini to respond to gravistimulation under anaerobic conditions, and that such a gene or genes might be unrelated to ethanol fermentation and ATP production in anaerobic conditions.
Operon-like gene clusters are an emerging phenomenon in the field of plant natural products. The genes encoding some of the best-characterized plant secondary metabolite biosynthetic pathways are scattered across plant genomes. However, an increasing number of gene clusters encoding the synthesis of diverse natural products have recently been reported in plant genomes. These clusters have arisen through the neo-functionalization and relocation of existing genes within the genome, and not by horizontal gene transfer from microbes. The reasons for clustering are not yet clear, although this form of gene organization is likely to facilitate co-inheritance and co-regulation. Oats (Avena spp) synthesize antimicrobial triterpenoids (avenacins) that provide protection against disease. The synthesis of these compounds is encoded by a gene cluster. Here we show that a module of three adjacent genes within the wider biosynthetic gene cluster is required for avenacin acylation. Through the characterization of these genes and their encoded proteins we present a model of the subcellular organization of triterpenoid biosynthesis.
Exposure of the breast to estrogens and other sex hormones is an important cancer risk factor and estrogen receptor downregulators are attracting significant clinical interest. Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), a polyphenolic compound found in green tea, has gained considerable attention for its antitumor properties. Here we aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms through which EGCG regulates ER-α expression in ER+ PR+ breast cancer cells. Western blotting analysis, real-time PCR, and transient transfections of deletion fragments of the ER-α gene promoter show that EGCG downregulates ER-α protein, mRNA, and gene promoter activity with a concomitant reduction of ER-α genomic and nongenomic signal. These events occur through p38(MAPK) /CK2 activation, causing the release from Hsp90 of progesterone receptor B (PR-B) and its consequent nuclear translocation as evidenced by immunofluorescence studies. EMSA, and ChIP assay reveal that, upon EGCG treatment, PR-B is recruited at the half-PRE site on ER-α promoter. This is concomitant with the formation of a corepressor complex containing NCoR and HDAC1 while RNA polymerase II is displaced. The events are crucially mediated by PR-B isoform, since they are abrogated with PR-B siRNA. Our data provide evidence for a mechanism by which EGCG downregulates ER-α and explains the inhibitory action of EGCG on the proliferation of ER+ PR+ cancer cells tested. We suggest that the EGCG/PR-B signaling should be further exploited for clinical approach.
A strict gluten-free diet (GFD) is the only currently available therapeutic treatment for patients with celiac disease (CD). Traditionally, treatment with a GFD has excluded wheat, barley and rye, while the presence of oats is a subject of debate. The most-recent research indicates that some cultivars of oats can be a safe part of a GFD. In order to elucidate the toxicity of the prolamins from oat varieties with low, medium, and high CD toxicity, the avenin genes of these varieties were cloned and sequenced, and their expression quantified throughout the grain development. At the protein level, we have accomplished an exhaustive characterization and quantification of avenins by RP-HPLC and an analysis of immunogenicity of peptides present in prolamins of different oat cultivars. Avenin sequences were classified into three different groups, which have homology with S-rich prolamins of Triticeae. Avenin proteins presented a lower proline content than that of wheat gliadin; this may contribute to the low toxicity shown by oat avenins. The expression of avenin genes throughout the development stages has shown a pattern similar to that of prolamins of wheat and barley. RP-HPLC chromatograms showed protein peaks in the alcohol-soluble and reduced-soluble fractions. Therefore, oat grains had both monomeric and polymeric avenins, termed in this paper gliadin- and glutenin-like avenins. We found a direct correlation between the immunogenicity of the different oat varieties and the presence of the specific peptides with a higher/lower potential immunotoxicity. The specific peptides from the oat variety with the highest toxicity have shown a higher potential immunotoxicity. These results suggest that there is wide range of variation of potential immunotoxicity of oat cultivars that could be due to differences in the degree of immunogenicity in their sequences.
Xylose, the major constituent of xylans, as well as the side chain sugars, such as arabinose, can be metabolized by engineered yeasts into ethanol. Therefore, xylan-degrading enzymes that efficiently hydrolyze xylans will add value to cellulases used in hydrolysis of plant cell wall polysaccharides for conversion to biofuels. Heterogeneous xylan is a complex substrate, and it requires multiple enzymes to release its constituent sugars. However, the components of xylan-degrading enzymes are often individually characterized, leading to a dearth of research that analyzes synergistic actions of the components of xylan-degrading enzymes. In the present report, six genes predicted to encode components of the xylan-degrading enzymes of the thermophilic bacterium Caldicellulosiruptor bescii were expressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant proteins were investigated as individual enzymes and also as a xylan-degrading enzyme cocktail. Most of the component enzymes of the xylan-degrading enzyme mixture had similar optimal pH (5.5 to ∼6.5) and temperature (75 to ∼90°C), and this facilitated their investigation as an enzyme cocktail for deconstruction of xylans. The core enzymes (two endoxylanases and a β-xylosidase) exhibited high turnover numbers during catalysis, with the two endoxylanases yielding estimated k(cat) values of ∼8,000 and ∼4,500 s(-1), respectively, on soluble wheat arabinoxylan. Addition of side chain-cleaving enzymes to the core enzymes increased depolymerization of a more complex model substrate, oat spelt xylan. The C. bescii xylan-degrading enzyme mixture effectively hydrolyzes xylan at 65 to 80°C and can serve as a basal mixture for deconstruction of xylans in bioenergy feedstock at high temperatures.
Plants produce a huge array of specialized metabolites that have important functions in defense against biotic and abiotic stresses. Many of these compounds are glycosylated by family 1 glycosyltransferases (GTs). Oats (Avena spp.) make root-derived antimicrobial triterpenes (avenacins) that provide protection against soil-borne diseases. The ability to synthesize avenacins has evolved since the divergence of oats from other cereals and grasses. The major avenacin, A-1, is acylated with N-methylanthranilic acid. Previously, we have cloned and characterized three genes for avenacin synthesis (for the triterpene synthase SAD1, a triterpene-modifying cytochrome P450 SAD2, and the serine carboxypeptidase-like acyl transferase SAD7), which form part of a biosynthetic gene cluster. Here, we identify a fourth member of this gene cluster encoding a GT belonging to clade L of family 1 (UGT74H5), and show that this enzyme is an N-methylanthranilic acid O-glucosyltransferase implicated in the synthesis of avenacin A-1. Two other closely related family 1 GTs (UGT74H6 and UGT74H7) are also expressed in oat roots. One of these (UGT74H6) is able to glucosylate both N-methylanthranilic acid and benzoic acid, whereas the function of the other (UGT74H7) remains unknown. Our investigations indicate that UGT74H5 is likely to be key for the generation of the activated acyl donor used by SAD7 in the synthesis of the major avenacin, A-1, whereas UGT74H6 may contribute to the synthesis of other forms of avenacin that are acylated with benzoic acid.
An endo-1,4-β-xylanase gene, xylcg, was cloned from Chaetomium globosum and successfully expressed in Escherichia coli. The complete gene of 675 bp was amplified, cloned into the pET 28(a) vector, and expressed. The optimal conditions for the highest activity of the purified recombinant XylCg were observed at a temperature of 40 °C and pH of 5.5. Using oat-spelt xylan, the determined K m, V max, and k cat/K m values were 0.243 mg ml⁻¹, 4,530 U mg⁻¹ protein, and 7,640 ml s⁻¹ mg⁻¹, respectively. A homology model and sequence analysis of XylCg, along with the biochemical properties, confirmed that XylCg belongs to the GH11 family. Rice straw pretreated with XylCg showed 30 % higher conversion yield than the rice straw pretreated with a commercial xylanase. Although xylanases have been characterized from fungal and bacterial sources, C. globosum XylCg is distinguished from other xylanases by its high catalytic efficiency and its effectiveness in the pretreatment of lignocellulosic biomass.
Victorin, the host-selective toxin produced by the fungus Cochliobolus victoriae, induces programmed cell death (PCD) in victorin-sensitive oat lines with characteristic features of animal apoptosis, such as mitochondrial permeability transition, chromatin condensation, nuclear DNA laddering and rRNA/mRNA degradation. In this study, we characterized a calcium-binding protein, namely AsALG-2, which might have a role in the victorin-induced PCD. AsALG-2 is homologous to the Apoptosis-Linked Gene ALG-2 identified in mammalian cells. Northern blot analysis revealed that the accumulation of AsALG-2 transcripts increased during victorin-induced PCD, but not during necrotic cell death. Salicylic acid, chitosan and chitin strongly activated the expression of general defence response genes, such as PR-10; however, neither induced cell death nor the accumulation of AsALG-2 mRNA. Pharmacological studies indicated that victorin-induced DNA laddering and AsALG-2 expression were regulated through similar pathways. The calcium channel blocker, nifedipine, moderately inhibited the accumulation of AsALG-2 mRNA during cell death. Trifluoperazine (calmodulin antagonist) and K252a (serine-threonine kinase inhibitor) reduced the victorin-induced phytoalexin accumulation, but did not prevent the victorin-induced DNA laddering or accumulation of AsALG-2 mRNA. Taken together, our investigations suggest that there is a calcium-mediated signalling pathway in animal and plant PCD in common.
Many herbicide-resistant weed species are polyploids, but far too little about the evolution of resistance mutations in polyploids is understood. Hexaploid wild oat (Avena fatua) is a global crop weed and many populations have evolved herbicide resistance. We studied plastidic acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (ACCase)-inhibiting herbicide resistance in hexaploid wild oat and revealed that resistant individuals can express one, two or three different plastidic ACCase gene resistance mutations (Ile-1781-Leu, Asp-2078-Gly and Cys-2088-Arg). Using ACCase resistance mutations as molecular markers, combined with genetic, molecular and biochemical approaches, we found in individual resistant wild-oat plants that (1) up to three unlinked ACCase gene loci assort independently following Mendelian laws for disomic inheritance, (2) all three of these homoeologous ACCase genes were transcribed, with each able to carry its own mutation and (3) in a hexaploid background, each individual ACCase resistance mutation confers relatively low-level herbicide resistance, in contrast to high-level resistance conferred by the same mutations in unrelated diploid weed species of the Poaceae (grass) family. Low resistance conferred by individual ACCase resistance mutations is likely due to a dilution effect by susceptible ACCase expressed by homoeologs in hexaploid wild oat and/or differential expression of homoeologous ACCase gene copies. Thus, polyploidy in hexaploid wild oat may slow resistance evolution. Evidence of coexisting non-target-site resistance mechanisms among wild-oat populations was also revealed. In all, these results demonstrate that herbicide resistance and its evolution can be more complex in hexaploid wild oat than in unrelated diploid grass weeds. Our data provide a starting point for the daunting task of understanding resistance evolution in polyploids.
The spatio-temporal control of gene expression is fundamental to elucidate cell proliferation and deregulation phenomena in living systems. Novel approaches based on light-sensitive multiprotein complexes have recently been devised, showing promising perspectives for the noninvasive and reversible modulation of the DNA-transcriptional activity in vivo. This has lately been demonstrated in a striking way through the generation of the artificial protein construct light-oxygen-voltage (LOV)-tryptophan-activated protein (TAP), in which the LOV-2-Jα photoswitch of phototropin1 from Avena sativa (AsLOV2-Jα) has been ligated to the tryptophan-repressor (TrpR) protein from Escherichia coli. Although tremendous progress has been achieved on the generation of such protein constructs, a detailed understanding of their functioning as opto-genetical tools is still in its infancy. Here, we elucidate the early stages of the light-induced regulatory mechanism of LOV-TAP at the molecular level, using the noninvasive molecular dynamics simulation technique. More specifically, we find that Cys450-FMN-adduct formation in the AsLOV2-Jα-binding pocket after photoexcitation induces the cleavage of the peripheral Jα-helix from the LOV core, causing a change of its polarity and electrostatic attraction of the photoswitch onto the DNA surface. This goes along with the flexibilization through unfolding of a hairpin-like helix-loop-helix region interlinking the AsLOV2-Jα- and TrpR-domains, ultimately enabling the condensation of LOV-TAP onto the DNA surface. By contrast, in the dark state the AsLOV2-Jα photoswitch remains inactive and exerts a repulsive electrostatic force on the DNA surface. This leads to a distortion of the hairpin region, which finally relieves its tension by causing the disruption of LOV-TAP from the DNA.
Two of the domains most widely shared among R genes are the nucleotide binding site (NBS) and protein kinase (PK) domains. The present study describes and maps a number of new oat resistance gene analogues (RGAs) with two purposes in mind: (1) to identify genetic regions that contain R genes and (2) to determine whether RGAs can be used as molecular markers for qualitative loci and for QTLs affording resistance to Puccinia coronata. Such genes have been mapped in the diploid A. strigosa × A. wiestii (Asw map) and the hexaploid MN841801-1 × Noble-2 (MN map). Genomic and cDNA NBS-RGA probes from oat, barley and wheat were used to produce RFLPs and to obtain markers by motif-directed profiling based on the NBS (NBS profiling) and PK (PK profiling) domains. The efficiency of primers used in NBS/PK profiling to amplify RGA fragments was assessed by sequencing individual marker bands derived from genomic and cDNA fragments. The positions of 184 markers were identified in the Asw map, while those for 99 were identified in the MN map. Large numbers of NBS and PK profiling markers were found in clusters across different linkage groups, with the PK profiling markers more evenly distributed. The location of markers throughout the genetic maps and the composition of marker clusters indicate that NBS- and PK-based markers cover partly complementary regions of oat genomes. Markers of the different classes obtained were found associated with the two resistance loci, PcA and R-284B-2, mapped on Asw, and with five out of eight QTLs for partial resistance in the MN map. 53 RGA-RFLPs and 187 NBS/PK profiling markers were also mapped on the hexaploid map A. byzantina cv. Kanota × A. sativa cv. Ogle. Significant co-localization was seen between the RGA markers in the KO map and other markers closely linked to resistance loci, such as those for P. coronata and barley yellow dwarf virus (Bydv) that were previously mapped in other segregating populations.
Testicular germ cell tumors are the most common tumor in male and the least studied. We focused on human seminoma using the TCAM2 cell line. Through ERβ, 10 nM estradiol (E2) was able to induce PTEN gene expression and promoter transactivation. Transient transfections, ChIP and EMSA assays evidenced the 5'-flanking region of PTEN gene promoter E2-responsive. The ERβ binding to the Sp1 on PTEN promoter decreased cell survival. The presence of ERβ or PTEN is necessary to induce the loss of cell survival upon E2, addressing their cooperation in this action. pAKT and AKT expression decreased under E2 and DPN, while known apoptotic markers appeared to be unchanged. The PI3K/AKT pathway inhibition also leads to autophagy: E2 and DPN enhanced the expression of autophagy-related markers such as PI3III, Beclin 1, AMBRA and UVRAG. MDC and TEM assays confirmed E2-induced autophagy. The absence of DNA fragmentation, caspase 9 and PARP1 cleavages suggested that necroptosis and/or parthanatos may occur. FACS analysis, LDH assay and RIP1 expression attested this hypothesis. Our study reveals a unique mechanism through which ERβ/PTEN signaling induces cell death in TCAM2 by autophagy and necroptosis. These data, supporting estrogen-dependency of human seminoma, propose ERβ ligands for therapeutic use in the treatment of this pathological condition.
The gene encoding a xylanase from Geobacillus sp. 71 was isolated, cloned, and sequenced. Purification of the Geobacillus sp 7.1 xylanase, XyzGeo71, following overexpression in E. coli produced an enzyme of 47 kDa with an optimum temperature of 75°C. The optimum pH of the enzyme is 8.0, but it is active over a broad pH range. This protein showed the highest sequence identity (93%) with the xylanase from Geobacillus thermodenitrificans NG80-2. XyzGeo71 contains a catalytic domain that belongs to the glycoside hydrolase family 10 (GH10). XyzGeo71 exhibited good pH stability, remaining stable after treatment with buffers ranging from pH 7.0 to 11.0 for 6 h. Its activity was partially inhibited by Al(3+) and Cu(2+) but strongly inhibited by Hg(2+). The enzyme follows Michaelis-Menten kinetics, with K(m) and V(max) values of 0.425 mg xylan/ml and 500 μmol/min.mg, respectively. The enzyme was free from cellulase activity and degraded xylan in an endo fashion. The action of the enzyme on oat spelt xylan produced xylobiose and xylotetrose.
The degradation of plant materials by enzymes is an industry of increasing importance. For sustainable production of second generation biofuels and other products of industrial biotechnology, efficient degradation of non-edible plant polysaccharides such as hemicellulose is required. For each type of hemicellulose, a complex mixture of enzymes is required for complete conversion to fermentable monosaccharides. In plant-biomass degrading fungi, these enzymes are regulated and released by complex regulatory structures. In this study, we present a methodology for evaluating the potential of a given fungus for polysaccharide degradation. Through the compilation of information from 203 articles, we have systematized knowledge on the structure and degradation of 16 major types of plant polysaccharides to form a graphical overview. As a case example, we have combined this with a list of 188 genes coding for carbohydrate-active enzymes from Aspergillus niger, thus forming an analysis framework, which can be queried. Combination of this information network with gene expression analysis on mono- and polysaccharide substrates has allowed elucidation of concerted gene expression from this organism. One such example is the identification of a full set of extracellular polysaccharide-acting genes for the degradation of oat spelt xylan. The mapping of plant polysaccharide structures along with the corresponding enzymatic activities is a powerful framework for expression analysis of carbohydrate-active enzymes. Applying this network-based approach, we provide the first genome-scale characterization of all genes coding for carbohydrate-active enzymes identified in A. niger.
Endometrial cancer exhibits a strong incidence in western developed countries mainly due to fat-rich diet and obesity. Processing of dietary lipids is triggered by bile acids, amphipathic detergents that are synthesized in the liver and stored in the gallbladder. In addition to their well-recognized role in dietary lipid absorption and cholesterol homeostasis, bile acids can also act as signaling molecules with systemic endocrine functions. In the present study we investigated the biological effects of the primary bile chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) on a human endometrial cancer cell line, Ishikawa. Low concentrations of CDCA are able to stimulate Ishikawa cell growth by inducing a significant increase in Cyclin D1 protein and mRNA expression through the activation of the membrane G protein-coupled receptor (TGR5)-dependent pathway. Dissecting the molecular mechanism underlying this effect by mutagenesis, EMSA and ChIP analysis revealed that CDCA-induced Cyclin D1 expression requires the enhanced recruitment of the transcription factor CREB on the cyclic AMP-responsive element motif within the Cyclin D1 gene proximal promoter. Our results suggest a novel molecular mechanism explaining the potential contribution of high-fat diet and obesity to endometrial cancer growth and progression opening the rationale for strategies to prevent the risk of this obesity-related cancer in women.
C(4) photosynthesis has evolved in at least 66 lineages within the angiosperms and involves alterations to the biochemistry, cell biology, and development of leaves. The characteristic "Kranz" anatomy of most C(4) leaves was discovered in the 1890s, but the genetic basis of these traits remains poorly defined. Oat × maize addition lines allow the effects of individual maize (Zea mays; C(4)) chromosomes to be investigated in an oat (Avena sativa; C(3)) genetic background. Here, we have determined the extent to which maize chromosomes can introduce C(4) characteristics into oat and have associated any C(4)-like changes with specific maize chromosomes. While there is no indication of a simultaneous change to C(4) biochemistry, leaf anatomy, and ultrastructure in any of the oat × maize addition lines, the C(3) oat leaf can be modified at multiple levels. Maize genes encoding phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, pyruvate, orthophosphate dikinase, and the 2'-oxoglutarate/malate transporter are expressed in oat and generate transcripts of the correct size. Three maize chromosomes independently cause increases in vein density, and maize chromosome 3 results in larger bundle sheath cells with increased cell wall lipid deposition in oat leaves. These data provide proof of principle that aspects of C(4) biology could be integrated into leaves of C(3) crops.
We aimed to examine different immunological aspects of β-glucans derived from different food sources (oat, barley and shiitake) on phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)-differentiated THP-1 macrophages. Commercially purified barley β-glucan (commercial BG) and lentinan were included to compare β-glucans from the same origin but different degree of purity and processing. Chemical composition and molecular weight distribution of β-glucan samples were determined. Inflammation-related gene expression kinetics (IL-1β, IL-8, nuclear factor kappa B [NF-κB] and IL-10) after 3, 6 and 24 h of stimulation with 100 μg/mL β-glucan were investigated. All tested β-glucans mildly upregulated the observed inflammation-related genes with differential gene expression patterns. Similar gene expression kinetics, but different fold induction values, was found for the crude β-glucan extracts and their corresponding commercial forms. Pre-incubation of THP-1 macrophages with β-glucans prior to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure decreased the induction of inflammation-related genes compared to LPS treatment. No production of nitric oxide (NO) and hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂) was detected in β-glucan stimulated THP-1 macrophages. Phagocytic activity was not different after stimulation by β-glucan samples. Based on these in vitro analyses, it can be concluded that the analysed β-glucans have varying levels of immunomodulating properties, which are likely related to structure, molecular weight and compositional characteristic of β-glucan.
Phytochrome A (phyA) in higher plants is known to function as a far-red/shade light-sensing photoreceptor in suppressing shade avoidance responses (SARs) to shade stress. In this paper, the Avena PHYA gene was introduced into creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera L.) and zoysiagrass (Zoysia japonica Steud.) to improve turf quality by suppressing the SARs. In addition to wild-type PHYA, a hyperactive mutant gene (S599A-PHYA), in which a phosphorylation site involved in light-signal attenuation was removed, was also transformed into the turfgrasses. Phenotypic traits of the transgenic plants were compared to assess the suppression of SARs under a simulated shade condition and outdoor field conditions after three growth seasons. Under the shade condition, the S599A-PhyA transgenic creeping bentgrass plants showed shade avoidance-suppressing phenotypes with a 45 % shorter leaf lengths, 24 % shorter internode lengths, and twofold increases in chlorophyll concentrations when compared with control plants. Transgenic zoysiagrass plants overexpressing S599A-PHYA also showed shade-tolerant phenotypes under the shade condition with reductions in leaf length (15 %), internode length (30 %), leaf length/width ratio (19 %) and leaf area (22 %), as well as increases in chlorophyll contents (19 %) and runner lengths (30 %) compared to control plants. The phenotypes of transgenic zoysiagrass were also investigated in dense field habitats, and the transgenic turfgrass exhibited shade-tolerant phenotypes similar to those observed under laboratory shade conditions. Therefore, the present study suggests that the hyperactive phyA is effective for the development of shade-tolerant plants, and that the shade tolerance nature is sustained under field conditions.
Whole plants or plant cell cultures can serve as low cost bioreactors to produce massive amounts of a specific protein for pharmacological or industrial use. To maximize protein expression, translation of mRNA must be optimized. Many plant viral RNAs harbor extremely efficient translation enhancers. However, few of these different translation elements have been compared side-by-side. Thus, it is unclear which are the most efficient translation enhancers. Here, we compare the effects of untranslated regions (UTRs) containing translation elements from six plant viruses on translation in wheat germ extract and in monocotyledenous and dicotyledenous plant cells. The highest expressing uncapped mRNAs contained viral UTRs harboring Barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV)-like cap-independent translation elements (BTEs). The BYDV BTE conferred the most efficient translation of a luciferase reporter in wheat germ extract and oat protoplasts, while uncapped mRNA containing the BTE from Tobacco necrosis virus-D translated most efficiently in tobacco cells. Capped mRNA containing the Tobacco mosaic virus omega sequence was the most efficient mRNA in tobacco cells. UTRs from Satellite tobacco necrosis virus, Tomato bushy stunt virus, and Crucifer-infecting tobamovirus (crTMV) did not stimulate translation efficiently. mRNA with the crTMV 5' UTR was unstable in tobacco protoplasts. BTEs confer the highest levels of translation of uncapped mRNAs in vitro and in vivo, while the capped omega sequence is most efficient in tobacco cells. These results provide a basis for understanding mechanisms of translation enhancement, and for maximizing protein synthesis in cell-free systems, transgenic plants, or in viral expression vectors.
Oats (Avena sativa L.) are distinct among cereals due to their considerably higher protein concentration. At the same time oats possess a protein quality of high nutritional value and a special protein composition. Most cereals like wheat, barley, and rye have a high percentage of prolamins, the alcohol-soluble fraction, which usually contains most of the storage proteins, but oats are an exception. Their major storage proteins belong to the salt-water soluble globulin fraction, whereas oats prolamins are a minor component. During oats groat development, most obvious is the fairly linear increase in the globulin fraction. Oats globulins share structural features with the 11 S globulins of legumes and other dicots. Amino acid composition of oats is superior to that of other cereals due to the higher amount of limiting amino acids like lysine and threonine. During germination, total amino acid analysis revealed an increase in essential amino acids like lysine and tryptophan, which leads to an increased nutritional value of germinated oats. Oats protein products including globulin have been chemically modified by various methods to improve their functional properties.
Gene duplication and the subsequent divergence in function of the resulting paralogs via subfunctionalization and/or neofunctionalization is hypothesized to have played a major role in the evolution of plant form. The LEAFY HULL STERILE1 (LHS1) SEPALLATA (SEP) genes have been linked with the origin and diversification of the grass spikelet, but it is uncertain 1) when the duplication event that produced the LHS1 clade and its paralogous lineage Oryza sativa MADS5 (OSM5) occurred, and 2) how changes in gene structure and/or expression might have contributed to subfunctionalization and/or neofunctionalization in the two lineages. Phylogenetic relationships among 84 SEP genes were estimated using Bayesian methods. RNA expression patterns were inferred using in situ hybridization. The patterns of protein sequence and RNA expression evolution were reconstructed using maximum parsimony (MP) and maximum likelihood (ML) methods, respectively. Phylogenetic analyses mapped the LHS1/OSM5 duplication event to the base of the grass family. MP character reconstructions estimated a change from cytosine to thymine in the first codon position of the first amino acid after the Zea mays MADS3 (ZMM3) domain converted a glutamine to a stop codon in the OSM5 ancestor following the LHS1/OSM5 duplication event. RNA expression analyses of OSM5 co-orthologs in Avena sativa, Chasmanthium latifolium, Hordeum vulgare, Pennisetum glaucum, and Sorghum bicolor followed by ML reconstructions of these data and previously published analyses estimated a complex pattern of gain and loss of LHS1 and OSM5 expression in different floral organs and different flowers within the spikelet or inflorescence. Previous authors have reported that rice OSM5 and LHS1 proteins have different interaction partners indicating that the truncation of OSM5 following the LHS1/OSM5 duplication event has resulted in both partitioned and potentially novel gene functions. The complex pattern of OSM5 and LHS1 expression evolution is not consistent with a simple subfunctionalization model following the gene duplication event, but there is evidence of recent partitioning of OSM5 and LHS1 expression within different floral organs of A. sativa, C. latifolium, P. glaucum and S. bicolor, and between the upper and lower florets of the two-flowered maize spikelet.
Salinity is a major abiotic constraint affecting oat productivity. Several physiological and biochemical traits have been found to be related to yield maintenance under salinity. The impact of introducing the Arabidopsis CBF3 gene controlled by the rd29A stress-inducible promoter in T(2) transgenic oat on salinity tolerance and associated physiological changes were studied. Compared with the non-transgenic control, transgenic T(2) plants exhibited greater growth and showed significant maintenance of leaf area, relative water content, chlorophyll content, photosynthetic and transpiration rates as well as increased levels of proline and soluble sugars under high salt stress. These physiological changes delayed leaf-wilting symptoms, increased tolerance and reduced yield loss. At a salinity stress level of 100mM, the CBF3-overexpressing transgenic oat showed a yield loss of 4-11% compared with >56% for the non-transgenic control. These results demonstrate that stress-inducible over-expression of CBF3 may have the potential to enhance abiotic stress tolerance in oat.
Our long-term goal is to develop a Swedish winter oat (Avena sativa). To identify molecular differences that correlate with winter hardiness, a winter oat model comprising of both non-hardy spring lines and winter hardy lines is needed. To achieve this, we selected 294 oat breeding lines, originating from various Russian, German, and American winter oat breeding programs and tested them in the field in south- and western Sweden. By assaying for winter survival and agricultural properties during four consecutive seasons, we identified 14 breeding lines of different origins that not only survived the winter but also were agronomically better than the rest. Laboratory tests including electrolytic leakage, controlled crown freezing assay, expression analysis of the AsVrn1 gene and monitoring of flowering time suggested that the American lines had the highest freezing tolerance, although the German lines performed better in the field. Finally, six lines constituting the two most freezing tolerant lines, two intermediate lines and two spring cultivars were chosen to build a winter oat model system. Metabolic profiling of non-acclimated and cold acclimated leaf tissue samples isolated from the six selected lines revealed differential expression patterns of 245 metabolites including several sugars, amino acids, organic acids and 181 hitherto unknown metabolites. The expression patterns of 107 metabolites showed significant interactions with either a cultivar or a time-point. Further identification, characterisation and validation of these metabolites will lead to an increased understanding of the cold acclimation process in oats. Furthermore, by using the winter oat model system, differential sequencing of crown mRNA populations would lead to identification of various biomarkers to facilitate winter oat breeding.
A new fusion gene (Bgl-licMB), encoding β-1,3-1,4-glucanase both from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens (Bgl) and Clostridium thermocellum (licMB), was constructed via end-to-end fusion and expressed in Escherichia coli to improve hydrolytic activity and thermostability of β-1,3-1,4-glucanase. The results of enzymatic properties showed that the catalytic efficiency (K(cat)/K(m)) of the fusion enzyme for oat β-glucan was 2.7 and 20-fold higher than that of the parental Bgl and licMB, respectively, and that the fusion enzyme can retain more than 50% of activity following incubation at 80°C for 30 min, whereas the residual activities of Bgl and licMB were both less than 30%. These properties make this particular β-1,3-1,4-glucanase a good candidate for application in brewing and animal-feed industries.
To identify the underlying molecular basis of carbon partitioning between starch and oil we conducted 454 pyrosequencing, followed by custom microarrays to profile gene expression throughout endosperm development, of two closely related oat cultivars that differ in oil content at the expense of starch as determined by several approaches including non-invasive magnetic resonance imaging. Comparative transcriptome analysis in conjunction with metabolic profiling displays a close coordination between energy metabolism and carbon partitioning pathways, with increased demands for energy and reducing equivalents in kernels with a higher oil content. These studies further expand the repertoire of networks regulating carbon partitioning to those involved in metabolism of cofactors, suggesting that an elevated supply of cofactors, here called cofactomes, contribute to the allocation of higher carbon pools for production of oils and storage proteins. These data highlight a close association between cofactomes and carbon partitioning, thereby providing a biotechnological target for conversion of starch to oil.
Slender wild oat (Avena barbata) is an annual grass dominant in many grassland ecosystems in Mediterranean climate. This species has been the subject of ecological studies aimed at understanding the effect of global climate change on grassland ecosystems and the genetic basis for adaptation under varying environmental conditions. We present the sequencing and analysis of cDNA libraries constructed from leaf and root samples collected from A. barbata grown on natural soil and under varying rainfall patterns. More than 1 million expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were generated using both GS 454-FLX pyrosequencing and Sanger sequencing, and these tags were assembled into consensus sequences. We identified numerous candidate polymorphic markers in the data set, providing possibilities for linking the genomic and the existing genetic information for A. barbata. Using the digital Northern method, we showed that genes involved in photosynthesis were down-regulated under high rainfall while stress-related genes were up-regulated. We also identified a number of genes unique to the root library with unknown function. Real-time reverse transcription-PCR was used to confirm the root specificity of some of these transcripts such as two genes encoding O-methyl transferase. Also we showed differential expression of five root-specific genes under three water levels and two developmental stages. Through a combination of Sanger and 454-based sequencing technologies, we were able to generate a large set of transcribed sequences for A. barbata. This data set provides a platform for further studies of this important wild grass species.
We previously detected infection-promoting activity in the supernatant of the conidial suspension (SCS) of the rice blast fungus. In the present study, a molecule carrying the activity was purified and identified as 2'-deoxyuridine (dU). The infection-promoting activity of dU was strictly dependent on its chemical structure and displayed characteristics consistent with those of the SCS. Notably, the activity of dU was exclusively detected during interactions between rice and virulent isolates of the fungus, the number of susceptible lesions in leaf blades was increased by dU, and nonhost resistance in rice plants was not affected by treatment with dU. In addition, the expression of pathogensis-related genes, accumulation of H(2)O(2), and production of phytoalexins in rice in response to inoculation with virulent fungal isolates was not suppressed by dU. The infection-promoting activity of dU was not accompanied by elevated levels of endogenous abscissic acid, which is known to modify plant-pathogen interactions, and was not detected in interactions between oat plants and a virulent oat blast fungus isolate. Taken together, these results demonstrate that dU is a novel infection-promoting factor that acts specifically during compatible interactions between rice plants and rice blast fungus in a mode distinct from that of toxins and suppressors.
The present study was to characterize the avenanthramide-rich extract (ARE) from oat bran and assess its effect on activity and gene expression of antioxidant enzymes in D-galactose-induced oxidative-stressed mice. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis found that ARE had 6.07% N-(3',4'-dihydroxycinnamoyl)-5-hydroxyanthranilic acid (Bc), 4.37% N-(4'-hydroxycinnamoyl)-5-hydroxyanthranilic acid (Bp), and 5.36% N-(4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxycinnamoyl)-5-hydroxyanthranilic acid (Bf). In addition, ARE was also rich in vanillic acid (0.60%), caffeic acid (0.50%), syringic acid (0.54%), p-coumaric acid (0.16%), ferulic acid (0.08%), and sinapic acid (0.03%). Administration of D-galactose markedly lowered not only the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) but also the gene expression of manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD), copper-zinc SOD, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and lipoprotein lipase (LPL) mRNA in mice. Administration of ARE significantly reversed the D-galactose-induced oxidative stress by increasing the activity of the antioxidant enzymes and upregulating their gene expression. This was accompanied by a significant decrease in the malondialdehyde (MDA) level in mice given ARE compared to the control. The results demonstrated that ARE possessed the antioxidant activity and was effective against D-galactose-induced oxidative stress.
Sobemoviruses possess a viral genome-linked protein (VPg) attached to the 5' end of viral RNA. VPg is processed from the viral polyprotein. In the current study, Cocksfoot mottle virus (CfMV) and Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) VPgs were purified from virions and analysed by mass spectrometry. The cleavage sites in the polyprotein and thereof the termini of VPg were experimentally proven. The lengths of the mature VPgs were determined to be 78 and 79 aa residues, respectively. The amino acid residues covalently linked to RNA in the two VPgs were, surprisingly, not conserved; it is a tyrosine at position 5 of CfMV VPg and serine at position 1 of RYMV VPg. Phosphorylations were identified in CfMV and RYMV VPgs with two positionally similar locations T20/S14 and S71/S72, respectively. RYMV VPg contains an additional phosphorylation site at S41.
A reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification of DNA (RT-LAMP) for detection of Barley yellow dwarf viruses (BYDVs) was developed. In this procedure, three sets of four primers matching a total of six sequences of the coat protein or read-through protein genes of BYDVs - one each for three species, namely BYDV-GAV, -GPV and -PAV were synthesized for developing a specific and sensitive RT-LAMP assay for total RNA extracts from field-infected wheat plants in such a way that a loop could be formed and elongated during DNA amplification. RT-LAMP assays for each of three species of BYDV/CYDVs in China exhibited high specificity and could detect viral sequences in total RNA extracts from infected oat tissues at dilutions of 1 x 10(-5). All field samples collected from different regions of China showed the same result using both RT-LAMP and RT-PCR. This relatively simple and sensitive technique showed excellent potential with field-collected samples and for use in grassroots agencies in developing countries with limited resources.
Management of oat crown rust disease with host resistance is challenging because major gene resistance is generally short lived. Partially resistant oat cultivars could benefit oat growers by providing more durable resistance. The objective of this study was to validate and discover quantitative trait loci (QTL) affecting crown rust resistance in the partially resistant oat line MN841801-1 using conventional and molecular assessments of disease produced in single-race greenhouse inoculations, single-race polycyclic field tests, and under natural infection in disease-conducive environments. Crown rust was assessed on 150 F(6:9) MN841801-1/'Noble-2' recombinant inbred lines. In total, eight QTL associated with MN841801-1 alleles were detected. Of these, seven matched QTL previously identified while a new QTL (Prq8) was detected on linkage group MN13. Four QTL (Prq1a, Prq2, Prq7, and Prq8) were consistently detected and predicative genetic assays for these QTL should be developed for future validation in additional genetic backgrounds.
Crown rust is the most damaging disease of cultivated oat (Avena sativa) and genetic resistance is the primary means of controlling the disease. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) with major and minor effects have been identified in Ogle1040 and TAM O-301 (most notably, Pc58 and PcNQMG/LGCG from TAM O-301 and OT-27 from Ogle1040) through single-isolate greenhouse and field tests. To map loci and determine the effectiveness of previously identified QTL against naturally occurring pathogen populations in highly disease-conducive environments, the Ogle/TAM O-301 (OT) recombinant inbred line (RIL) population was grown in Texas and Louisiana over 2 years and in Manitoba, Canada. The genetic region characterized by the Pc58 resistance gene complex, particularly Pc58a, accounted for most of the diseased leaf area (DLA) and infection type (IT) variance in all five experiments. Additionally, the genetic region characterized by PcNQMG/LGCG accounted for a portion of the IT variance in three experiments. Although no QTL was detected on OT-27 in this study, all the markers on this linkage group were associated (P < 0.0001) with reducing both IT and DLA using single-marker analysis. Screening with 25 Puccinia coronata isolates from six different states indicated that Pc58abc and Pc58a were highly effective, while characterization using F(2) populations derived from OT RILs containing the two main genetic regions responsible for crown rust resistance in TAM O-301 (Pc58 and PcNQMG/LGCG) and a minor QTL in Ogle (OT-27) indicated that Pc58a, in combination with a locus in Ogle1040, provided high levels of resistance to natural races in Texas. This study provides new information and key loci in OT mapping population and may be useful for effective control of crown rust in North America.
Transcription-related chromatin decondensation has been studied in mammals for clusters of structurally and/or functionally related genes that are coordinately regulated (e.g., the homeobox locus in mice and the major histocompatability complex locus in humans). Plant genes have generally been considered to be randomly distributed throughout the genome, although several examples of metabolic gene clusters for synthesis of plant defense compounds have recently been discovered. Clustering provides for genetic linkage of genes that together confer a selective advantage and may also facilitate coordinate regulation of gene expression by enabling localized changes in chromatin structure. Here, we use cytological methods to investigate components of a metabolic gene cluster for synthesis of developmentally regulated defense compounds (avenacins) in diploid oat (Avena strigosa). Our experiments reveal that expression of the avenacin gene cluster is associated with cell type-specific chromatin decondensation, providing new insights into regulation of gene clusters in plants. Importantly, chromatin decondensation could be visualized not only at the large-scale level but down to the single gene level. We further show that the avenacin and sterol pathways are likely to be inversely regulated at the level of transcription.
The -1 programmed ribosomal frameshifting (-1 PRF) mechanism utilized by many viruses is dependent on a heptanucleotide slippery sequence and a downstream secondary structure element. In the current study, the RNA structure downstream from the slippery site of cocksfoot mottle sobemovirus (CfMV) was proven to be a 12bp stem-loop with a single bulge and a tetranucleotide loop. Several deletion and insertion mutants with altered stem-loop structures were tested in wheat germ extract (WGE) for frameshifting efficiency. The impact of the same mutations on virus infectivity was tested in oat plants. Mutations shortening or destabilizing the stem region reduced significantly but did not abolish -1 PRF in WGE. The same mutations proved to be deleterious for virus infection. However, extending the loop region to seven nucleotides had no significant effect on frameshifting efficiency in WGE and did not hamper virus replication in infected leaves. This is the first report about the experimentally proven RNA secondary structure directing -1 PRF of sobemoviruses.
Eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF) 4B is known to interact with multiple initiation factors, mRNA, rRNA, and poly(A) binding protein (PABP). To gain a better understanding of the function of eIF4B, the two isoforms from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) were expressed and analyzed using biophysical and biochemical methods. Plant eIF4B was found by ultracentrifugation and light scattering analysis to most likely be a monomer with an extended structure. An extended structure would facilitate the multiple interactions of eIF4B with mRNA as well as other initiation factors (eIF4A, eIF4G, PABP, and eIF3). Eight mRNAs, barley (Hordeum vulgare) alpha-amylase mRNA, rabbit beta-hemoglobin mRNA, Arabidopsis heat shock protein 21 (HSP21) mRNA, oat (Avena sativa) globulin, wheat (Triticum aestivum) germin, maize (Zea mays) alcohol dehydrogenase, satellite tobacco necrosis virus RNA, and alfalfa mosaic virus (AMV) 4, were used in wheat germ in vitro translation assays to measure their dependence on eIF4B and eIF4F isoforms. The two Arabidopsis eIF4B isoforms, as well as native and recombinant wheat eIF4B, showed similar responses in the translation assay. AMV RNA 4 and Arabidopsis HSP21 showed only a slight dependence on the presence of eIF4B isoforms, whereas rabbit beta-hemoglobin mRNA and wheat germin mRNA showed modest dependence. Barley alpha-amylase, oat globulin, and satellite tobacco necrosis virus RNA displayed the strongest dependence on eIF4B. These results suggest that eIF4B has some effects on mRNA discrimination during initiation of translation. Barley alpha-amylase, oat globulin, and rabbit beta-hemoglobin mRNA showed the highest activity with eIF4F, whereas Arabidopsis HSP21 and AMV RNA 4 used both eIF4F and eIF(iso)4F equally well. These results suggest that differential or optimal translation of mRNAs may require initiation complexes composed of specific isoforms of initiation factor gene products. Thus, individual mRNAs or classes of mRNAs may respond to the relative abundance of a particular initiation factor(s), which in turn may affect the amount of protein translated. It is likely that optimal multifactor initiation complexes exist that allow for optimal translation of mRNAs under a variety of cellular conditions.
The contributions of cadmium (Cd) accumulation in cell walls, antioxidative enzymes and induction of phytochelatins (PCs) to Cd tolerance were investigated in two distinctive genotypes of black oat (Avena strigosa Schreb.). One cultivar of black oat 'New oat' accumulated Cd in the leaves at the highest concentration compared to another black oat cultivar 'Soil saver' and other major graminaceous crops. The shoot:root Cd ratio also demonstrated that 'New oat' was the high Cd-accumulating cultivar, whereas 'Soil saver' was the low Cd-accumulating cultivar. Varied levels of Cd exposure demonstrated the strong Cd tolerance of 'New oat'. By contrast, low Cd-accumulating cultivar 'Soil saver' suffered Cd toxicity such as growth defects and increased lipid peroxidation, even though it accumulated less Cd in shoots than 'New oat'. Higher activities of ascorbate peroxidase (EC 1.11.1.11) and superoxide dismutase (EC 1. 15. 1. 1) were observed in the leaves of 'New oat' than in 'Soil saver'. No advantage of 'New oat' in PCs induction was observed in comparison to Cd-sensitive cultivar 'Soil saver', although Cd exposure increased the concentration of total PCs in both cultivars. Higher and increased Cd accumulation in cell wall fraction was observed in shoots of 'New oat'. On the other hand, in 'Soil saver', apoplasmic Cd accumulation showed saturation under higher Cd exposure. Overall, the present results suggest that cell wall Cd accumulation and antioxidative activities function in the tolerance against Cd stress possibly in combination with vacuolar Cd compartmentation.
Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes are auxotrophic for polyamines because they are unable to synthesize putrescine de novo. This deficiency is due to the absence of ornithine and arginine decarboxylase genes in the parasite genome. We have been able to obtain transgenic T. cruzi expressing heterologous genes coding for these enzymes. Since arginine decarboxylase normal expression in oat requires a post-translational proteolytic cleavage of an enzyme precursor, we have investigated whether a similar processing occurs inside the transformed protozoa expressing oat arginine decarboxylase or the same enzyme attached to a C-terminal (his)(6)-tag. We were able to demonstrate that the post-translational processing also takes place inside the transgenic parasites. This cleavage is probably the result of a general proteolytic activity of T. cruzi acting on a protease-sensitive region of the protein. Interestingly, the (his)(6)-tagged enzyme expressed in the transformed parasites showed considerably increased metabolic stability and catalytic efficiency.
The design of reverse genetic experiments that utilize transgenic approaches often requires transgenes to be expressed in a predefined pattern and there is limited information regarding the gene expression profile for specific promoters. It is important that expression patterns are predetermined in the specific genotype targeted for transformation because the same promoter-transgene construct can produce different expression patterns in different host species. This chapter compares constitutive, targeted, or inducible promoters that have been characterized in specific cereal species.
Oat (Avena sativa L.), a worldwide temperate cereal crop, is deficient in tolerance to osmotic stress due to drought and/or salinity. To genetically transform the available commercial oat cultivars, a genotype-independent and efficient regeneration system from shoot apical meristems was developed using four oat cultivars: Prairie, Porter, Ogle, and Pacer. All these oat cultivars generated a genotype-independent in vitro differentiated multiple shoots from shoot apical meristems at a high frequency. Using this system, three oat cultivars were genetically co-transformed with pBY520 (containing hva1 and bar) and pAct1-D (containing gus) using biolistic trade mark bombardment. Transgenic plants were selected and regenerated using herbicide resistance and GUS as a marker. Molecular and biochemical analyses of putative transgenic plants confirmed the co-integration of hva1 and bar genes with a frequency of 100%, and 61.6% of the transgenic plants carried all three genes (hva1, bar and gus). Further analyses of R0, R1, and R2 progenies confirmed stable integration, expression, and Mendalian inheritance for all transgenes. Histochemical analysis of GUS protein in transgenic plants showed a high level of GUS expression in vascular tissues and in the pollen grains of mature flowers. Immunochemical analysis of transgenic plants indicated a constitutive expression of hva1 at all developmental stages. However, the level of HVA1 was higher during the early seedling stages. The characteristic of HVA1 expression for osmotic tolerance in transgenic oat progeny was analyzed in vitro as well as in vivo. Transgenic plants exhibited significantly (P<0.05) increased tolerance to stress conditions than non-transgenic control plants. The symptoms of wilting or death of leaves as observed in 80% of non-transgenic plants due to osmotic stress was delayed and detected only in less than 10% of trans-genic plants. These observations confirmed the characteristic of HVA1 protein as providing or enhancing the osmotic tolerance in transgenic plants against salinity and possible water-deficiency stress conditions.
Ever since the first developments in plant transformation technology using model plant species in the early 1980s, there has been a body of plant science research devoted to adapting these techniques to the transformation of crop plants. For some crop species progress was relatively rapid, but in other crop groups such as the small grain cereals, which were not readily amenable to culture in vitro and were not natural hosts to Agrobacterium, it has taken nearly two decades to develop reliable and robust transformation methods.In the following chapters of this book, transformation procedures for small grain cereals are presented, together with methods for gene and protein expression and the characterization of transgenic plants. In this introductory chapter we try to put these later chapters into context, giving an overview of the development of transformation technology for small grain cereals, discussing some of the pros and cons of the techniques and what limitations still exist.
We have earlier demonstrated that muesli enriched with oat beta-glucan effectively lowered serum LDL cholesterol. Addition of plant stanols further lowered LDL cholesterol. Besides these hypocholesterolemic effects, beta-glucan and plant stanol esters (PSE) may also affect inflammatory processes. Forty-two mildly hypercholesterolemic subjects randomly consumed for 4 wk (crossover design) control muesli (4.8 g control fiber), beta-glucan muesli (4.8 g oat beta-glucan), or combination muesli (4.8 g oat beta-glucan plus 1.4 g stanol as PSE). Changes in cytokine production (IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-alpha) of LPS-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and whole blood were evaluated, as well as changes in plasma high-sensitivity (hs)-CRP. Additionally, changes in expression profiles of 84 genes involved in atherosclerosis metabolism were assessed in isolated PBMC. IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-alpha production by PBMC and whole blood after LPS stimulation did not differ between the treatments. Also high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) levels were similar. beta-Glucan consumption did not change gene expression, while only 3 genes (ADFP, CDH5, CSF2) out of the 84 genes from the atherosclerotic risk panel were differentially expressed (p < 0.05) after consumption of PSE. Consumption of beta-glucan with or without PSE did not influence inflammatory parameters in mildly hypercholesterolemic subjects.
ABSTRACT Infection types produced by Puccinia graminis f. sp. avenae on plants of Avena sativa with the stem rust resistance gene Pg10 are characterized by moderate-sized uredinia surrounded by an area of chlorosis and a larger variable zone of dark brown necrosis. This study was undertaken to assess the effectiveness of gene Pg10 as a source of resistance to stem rust and to determine the interactions of this gene with other common Pg genes. A derived Pg10 line was tested with 58 distinct pathotypes of P. graminis f. sp. avenae and was crossed to substituted single-gene lines carrying the resistance gene Pg1, Pg2, Pg3, Pg4, Pg8, Pg9, Pg13, Pg15, Pg16, or Pga. The Pg10 line showed moderate resistance to all 58 patho-types, and there was no indication of specificity in virulence by any isolate. Gene Pg10 was inherited independently of the other Pg genes and had a complementary effect on the expression of resistance by these genes. An effective level of resistance conferred by Pg10 was demonstrated in a field nursery artificially inoculated with P. graminis f. sp. avenae. It was concluded that Pg10 is a potentially useful source of stem rust resistance in oat breeding, with its main attributes being an apparent broad base of resistance, ease of combining with other Pg genes, and complementary effects on the expression of other Pg genes.
Protoplasts provide a convenient system for introduction of nucleic acids into plant cells. Protoplasts allow rapid assays of gene expression and virus replication, with advantages for plant biology similar to those of cultured animal cells for the study of animal systems. Traditionally, preparation and handling of protoplasts has been as much art as science, requiring a special touch by the user. The purpose of this unit is to lay out in clear detail all the methods and nuances involved in protoplast preparation using a robust, reliable system that does not require skills beyond those expected of an unspecialized molecular biologist. Because dicots and monocots differ in many biological properties, and because different procedures may work better for different plants, separate units in this chapter are devoted to protoplast preparation from dicots (Arabidopsis, tobacco; refer to UNITS 16D.1 & 16D.4) and from a monocot (oat). This unit describes methods for preparation and transfection by electroporation of protoplasts derived from an oat suspension culture.
Plant photosynthate fuels carbon-limited microbial growth and activity, resulting in increased rhizosphere nitrogen (N) mineralization. Most soil organic nitrogen is macromolecular (chitin, protein, nucleotides); enzymatic depolymerization is likely rate limiting for plant nitrogen accumulation. Analyzing Avena (wild oat) planted in microcosms containing sieved field soil, we observed increased rhizosphere chitinase and protease-specific activities, bacterial cell densities, and dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) compared with bulk soil. Low-molecular-weight (MW) DON (<3000 Da) was undetectable in bulk soil but comprised 15% of rhizosphere DON. Extracellular enzyme production in many bacteria requires quorum sensing (QS), cell-density-dependent group behavior. Because proteobacteria are considered major rhizosphere colonizers, we assayed the proteobacterial QS signals N-acyl-homoserine lactones (AHLs), which were significantly increased in the rhizosphere. To investigate the linkage between soil signaling and nitrogen cycling, we characterized 533 bacterial isolates from Avena rhizosphere: 24% had chitinase or protease activity and AHL production; disruption of QS in seven of eight isolates disrupted enzyme activity. Many Alphaproteobacteria were newly found with QS-controlled extracellular enzyme activity. Enhanced specific activities of nitrogen-cycling enzymes accompanied by bacterial density-dependent behaviors in rhizosphere soil gives rise to the hypothesis that QS could be a control point in the complex process of rhizosphere nitrogen mineralization.
Although most eukaryotic genomes lack operons, occasionally clusters of genes are discovered that are related in function. Now, a metabolic operon-like gene cluster has been described in Arabidopsis thaliana, that is needed for triterpene synthesis.
Inflammation may be a mechanism by which high postprandial insulin and glucose responses increase the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus. We hypothesized that dietary carbohydrates characterized by different postprandial insulin responses may differentially modify cytokine concentrations in plasma and gene expression in subcutaneous adipose tissue. Individuals (n = 47) with the metabolic syndrome were randomly assigned to a 12-wk diet with oat and wheat bread and potato (high postprandial insulin response) or rye bread and pasta (low postprandial insulin response). Postprandial glucose and insulin responses to the oat and wheat bread meal and to the rye bread meal were determined in 19 individuals before intervention. During the 12-wk diet, the change in the gene expression of interleukin (IL)-10 receptor alpha and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in subcutaneous adipose tissue differed between the groups (P = 0.002 and P = 0.083, respectively). Moreover, the change in fasting plasma concentrations of IL-1beta and IL-6 differed between the groups (P = 0.020 and P = 0.055, respectively). In the postprandial challenge, the insulin response to the rye bread meal was lower than that to the oat and wheat bread meal (P < 0.001), whereas there were no differences in the mean blood glucose response. In contrast, plasma glucose concentrations decreased more below fasting concentrations 2.5-3 h after the oat and wheat bread meal than after the rye bread meal. A late postprandial rebound of free fatty acids was detected after the oat and wheat bread meal (P = 0.048). Long-term intake of cereal foods with differing postprandial insulin responses may be a factor that modulates the inflammatory status in individuals with the metabolic syndrome.
Operons are clusters of unrelated genes with related functions that are a feature of prokaryotic genomes. Here, we report on an operon-like gene cluster in the plant Arabidopsis thaliana that is required for triterpene synthesis (the thalianol pathway). The clustered genes are coexpressed, as in bacterial operons. However, despite the resemblance to a bacterial operon, this gene cluster has been assembled from plant genes by gene duplication, neofunctionalization, and genome reorganization, rather than by horizontal gene transfer from bacteria. Furthermore, recent assembly of operon-like gene clusters for triterpene synthesis has occurred independently in divergent plant lineages (Arabidopsis and oat). Thus, selection pressure may act during the formation of certain plant metabolic pathways to drive gene clustering.
We investigated the short day (SD)-induced transition to dormancy in wild-type hybrid poplar (Populus tremula x P. tremuloides) and its absence in transgenic poplar overexpressing heterologous PHYTOCHROME A (PHYA). CENTRORADIALIS-LIKE1 (CENL1), a poplar ortholog of Arabidopsis thaliana TERMINAL FLOWER1 (TFL1), was markedly downregulated in the wild-type apex coincident with SD-induced growth cessation. By contrast, poplar overexpressing a heterologous Avena sativa PHYA construct (P35S:AsPHYA), with PHYA accumulating in the rib meristem (RM) and adjacent tissues but not in the shoot apical meristem (SAM), upregulated CENL1 in the RM area coincident with an acceleration of stem elongation. In SD-exposed heterografts, both P35S:AsPHYA and wild-type scions ceased growth and formed buds, whereas only the wild type assumed dormancy and P35S:AsPHYA showed repetitive flushing. This shows that the transition is not dictated by leaf-produced signals but dependent on RM and SAM properties. In view of this, callose-enforced cell isolation in the SAM, associated with suspension of indeterminate growth during dormancy, may require downregulation of CENL1 in the RM. Accordingly, upregulation of CENL1/TFL1 might promote stem elongation in poplar as well as in Arabidopsis during bolting. Together, the results suggest that the RM is particularly sensitive to photoperiodic signals and that CENL1 in the RM influences transition to dormancy in hybrid poplar.
Movement proteins (MPs) that facilitate virus movement in the plants were identified in a number of plant viruses. In this study, full-length MP gene of the Chinese isolate Barley yellow dwarf virus-GAV (BYDV-GAV) was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. About 32% of the expressed MP was soluble providing the concentration of isopropyl-beta-D-galactopyranoside (IPTG), time of the induction, temperature and shaking speed were optimized. The soluble MP was purified using nickel-affinity column. Immune serum prepared against purified MP was used for the detection of MP in the BYDV-GAV infected leaves of oat and in the leaves of transgenic wheat plants expressing the full-length and truncated MP gene.
The chronic inflammation of arterial walls is associated with the development of atherosclerosis. Earlier we reported that avenanthramide (Avn)s-enriched extract of oats (AvnsO) significantly suppressed interleukin (IL)-1beta-stimulated secretion of proinflammatory cytokines, such as IL-6, IL-8, and MCP-1, by human aortic endothelial cells (HAEC). The main objective of the current study was to determine if the mechanism of inhibitory effect of these polyphenols from oats on the expression of proinflammatory cytokines is mediated through modulation of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB)-dependent transcription. Confluent HAEC monolayers were treated for 24 h with AvnsO, and synthetically prepared Avn-c suppressed IL-beta-stimulated activation of NF-kappaB in a concentration-dependent manner. CH3-Avn-c, a synthetically prepared methyl ester derivative of Avn-c with a high biological potency, significantly and dose dependently decreased mRNA expression and secretion of IL-6, IL-8, and MCP-1 by HAEC as determined by real-time RT-PCR and ELISA, and it inhibited IL-1beta- and TNFalpha-stimulated NF-kappaB activation as determined by a NF-kappaB DNA binding assay and a NF-kappaB luciferase reporter assay. AvnsO and Avn-c as well as CH3-Avn-c also inhibited the NF-kappaB-dependent reporter gene expression activated by TNFR-associated factor 2 and 6 (TRAF2, TRAF6) and NFkappaB-inducing kinase (NIK). CH3-Avn-c also significantly and dose dependently decreased the phosphorylation level of IkappaB kinase (IKK) and IkappaB, and prevented IkappaB degradation as measured by Western blotting. In addition, CH3-Avn-c markedly increased the overall levels of high mass ubiquitin-conjugated protein levels while it mildly inhibited proteasome activity. These observations suggest that Avns, unique polyphenols from oats, decrease the expression of endothelial proinflammatory cytokines at least in part through inhibition of NF-kappaB activation by inhibiting the phosphorylation of IKK and IkappaB, and by suppressing proteasome activity.
Members of the grass subfamily Pooideae are characterized by their adaptation to cool temperate climates. Vernalization is the process whereby flowering is accelerated in response to a prolonged period of cold. Winter cereals are tolerant of low temperatures and flower earlier with vernalization, whereas spring cultivars are intolerant of low temperatures and flower later with vernalization. In the pooid grasses wheat (Triticum monococcum, Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare), vernalization responsiveness is determined by allelic variation at the VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1) and/or VRN2 loci. To determine whether VRN1, and its paralog FRUITFULL2 (FUL2), are involved in vernalization requirement across Pooideae, we determined expression profiles for multiple cultivars of oat (Avena sativa) and wheat with and without cold treatment. Our results demonstrate significant up-regulation of VRN1 expression in leaves of winter oat and wheat in response to vernalization; no treatment effect was found for spring or facultative growth habit oat and wheat. Similar cold-dependent patterns of leaf expression were found for FUL2 in winter oat, but not winter wheat, suggesting a redundant qualitative role for these genes in the quantitative induction of flowering competency of oat. These and other data support the hypothesis that VRN1 is a common regulator of vernalization responsiveness within the crown pooids. Finally, we found that up-regulation of VRN1 in vegetative meristems of oat was significantly later than in leaves. This suggests distinct and conserved roles for temperate cereal grass VRN1/FUL-like genes, first, in systemic signaling to induce flowering competency, and second, in meristems to activate genes involved in the floral transition.
Biomarkers for early detection of toxicity hold the promise of improving the failure rates in drug development. In the present study, gene expression levels were measured using full-genome RAE230 version 2 Affymetrix GeneChips on rat liver tissue 48 h after administration of six different compounds, three toxins (ANIT, DMN and NMF) and three non-toxins (Caeruelein, Dinitrophenol and Rosiglitazone). We identified three gene transcripts with exceptional predictive performance towards liver toxicity and/or changes in histopathology. The three genes were: glucokinase regulatory protein (GCKR), ornithine aminotransferase (OAT) and Cytochrome P450, subfamily IIC (mephenytoin 4-hydroxylase) (Cyp2C29). RT-PCR for these three genes was performed and four additional compounds were included for validation. The quantitative RT-PCR analysis confirmed the findings based on the microarray data and using the three genes a classification rate of 55 of 57 samples was achieved for the classification of not toxic versus toxic. The single most promising biomarker (OAT) alone resulted in a surprisingly 100% correctly classified samples. OAT has not previously been linked to toxicity and cell death in the literature and the novel finding represents a putative hepatotoxicity biomarker.
The effector protein NIP1 from the barley (Hordeum vulgare) pathogen Rhynchosporium secalis specifically induces the synthesis of defense-related proteins in cultivars of barley expressing the complementary resistance gene, Rrs1. In addition, it stimulates the activity of the barley plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase in a genotype-unspecific manner and it induces necrotic lesions in leaf tissues of barley and other cereal plant species. NIP1 variants type I and II, which display quantitative differences in their activities as elicitor and H(+)-ATPase stimulator, and the inactive mutant variants type III* and type IV*, were produced in Escherichia coli. Binding studies using (125)I-NIP1 type I revealed a single class of binding sites with identical binding characteristics in microsomes from near-isogenic resistant (Rrs1) and susceptible (rrs1) barley. Binding was specific, reversible, and saturable, and saturation ligand-binding experiments yielded a K(d) of 5.6 nm. A binding site was also found in rye (Secale cereale) and the nonhost species wheat (Triticum aestivum), oat (Avena sativa), and maize (Zea mays), but not in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). For NIP1 types I and II, equilibrium competition-binding experiments revealed a correlation between the difference in their affinities to the binding site and the differences in their elicitor activity and H(+)-ATPase stimulation, indicating a single target molecule to mediate both activities. In contrast, the inactive proteins type III* and type IV* are both characterized by high affinities similar to type I, suggesting that binding of NIP1 to this target is not sufficient for its activities.
The fungus Cochliobolus victoriae causes Victoria blight of oats (Avena sativa) and is pathogenic due to its production of victorin, which induces programmed cell death in sensitive plants. Victorin sensitivity has been identified in Arabidopsis thaliana and is conferred by the dominant gene LOCUS ORCHESTRATING VICTORIN EFFECTS1 (LOV1), which encodes a coiled-coil-nucleotide binding site-leucine-rich repeat protein. We isolated 63 victorin-insensitive mutants, including 59 lov1 mutants and four locus of insensitivity to victorin1 (liv1) mutants. The LIV1 gene encodes thioredoxin h5 (ATTRX5), a member of a large family of disulfide oxidoreductases. To date, very few plant thioredoxins have been assigned specific, nonredundant functions. We found that the victorin response was highly specific to ATTRX5, as the closely related ATTRX3 could only partially compensate for loss of ATTRX5, even when overexpressed. We also created chimeric ATTRX5/ATTRX3 proteins, which identified the central portion of the protein as important for conferring specificity to ATTRX5. Furthermore, we found that ATTRX5, but not ATTRX3, is highly induced in sensitive Arabidopsis following victorin treatment. Finally, we determined that only the first of the two active-site Cys residues in ATTRX5 is required for the response to victorin, suggesting that ATTRX5 function in the victorin pathway involves an atypical mechanism of action.
Recent evidence has demonstrated that ethanol intake can stimulate the expression and production of the feeding-stimulatory peptide, galanin (GAL), in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), and that PVN injection of this peptide, in turn, can increase the consumption of ethanol. To test the hypothesis that other feeding-related systems are involved in ethanol intake, this study examined the effect of ethanol on the hypothalamic opioid peptides, enkephalin (ENK), and dynorphin (DYN). Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to voluntarily drink increasing concentrations of ethanol, up to 9% v/v, on a 12-hour access schedule or were given a single injection of ethanol (10% v/v) versus saline vehicle. The effect of ethanol on GAL, ENK, and DYN mRNA was measured using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and radiolabeled in situ hybridization, while radioimmunoassay was used to measure peptide levels. In addition to blood alcohol, circulating levels of triglycerides (TG), leptin, and insulin were also measured. The data demonstrated that: (1) rats voluntarily drinking 9% v/v ethanol (approximately 2.0 g/kg/d) show a significant increase in GAL, ENK, and DYN mRNA in the PVN compared with water-drinking rats; (2) voluntary consumption of ethanol also increases peptide levels of ENK and DYN in the PVN; (3) acute injection of 10% ethanol (1.0 g/kg of 10% v/v) similarly increases the expression of GAL, ENK, and DYN in the PVN; and (4) ethanol consumption and injection, while having little effect on leptin and insulin, consistently increase circulating levels of TG as well as alcohol, both of which are strongly, positively correlated with peptide expression in the PVN. These findings, together with published studies, suggest a possible role for hypothalamic opioid peptides in the drinking of ethanol. Based on evidence that dietary fat and lipid injections stimulate the PVN peptides and injection of the opiates and GAL increase ethanol intake, it is proposed that both TG and alcohol in the circulation, which are elevated by the ingestion or injection of ethanol, are involved in stimulating these peptides in the PVN, which in turn promote further consumption of ethanol.
Tobacco necrosis necrovirus (TNV) RNA lacks both a 5' cap and a poly(A) tail but is translated efficiently, owing in part to a Barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV)-like cap-independent translation element (BTE) in its 3' untranslated region (UTR). Here, we identify sequence downstream of the BTE that is necessary for poly(A) tail-independent translation in vivo by using RNA encoding a luciferase reporter gene flanked by viral UTRs. Deletions and point mutations caused loss of translation that was restored by adding a poly(A) tail, and not by adding a 5' cap. The two 3'-proximal stem-loops in the viral genome contribute to poly(A) tail-independent translation, as well as RNA replication. For all necroviruses, we predict a conserved 3' UTR secondary structure that includes the BTE at one end of a long helical axis and the stem-loops required for poly(A) tail-independent translation and RNA replication at the other end. This work shows that a viral genome can harbor distinct cap- and poly(A) tail-mimic sequences in the 3' UTR.
Maternal diet during pregnancy has been proposed to modify female offspring's later susceptibility to develop breast cancer; however, most of the dietary factors identified thus far have led to increased risk. To identify dietary factors that might reduce offspring's breast cancer risk, pregnant rat dams were fed diets containing 6% fiber originating either from cellulose (control), or oat, whole wheat or defatted flax flour. At birth, dams were switched to the AIN93 semi-purified diet. Mammary tumor incidence and multiplicity, induced by administering the offspring 5 mg 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) at the age of 50 days, was reduced in the whole wheat flour-exposed offspring and increased in the defatted flax-exposed offspring. To identify the mechanisms mediating the effects of in utero dietary exposures, changes in mammary gland morphology and gene expression were assessed before puberty onset (3 weeks of age) and at the time rats are most susceptible to malignant transformation (8 weeks of age). The number of terminal end buds (TEBs), i.e., the targets of malignant transformation, was reduced in the mammary glands of whole wheat- and oat flour-exposed offspring, as compared to the controls. Further, the number of apoptotic epithelial cells (based on ISOL assay) was elevated in the whole wheat flour offspring, but no changes in cell proliferation (PCNA), estrogen receptor alpha (ER-alpha) or cyclin D1 mRNA or protein levels were seen. The mRNA and/or protein levels of BRCA1 and p53 were significantly increased in the mammary glands of whole wheat flour offspring. Further, the levels of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), a marker of DNA damage, were significantly reduced in these rats, suggesting that maternal dietary exposure to whole wheat during pregnancy may reduce offspring's breast cancer risk by improving DNA damage repair mechanisms.
To examine the genetic controls of endosperm (ES) specificity, several cereal seed storage protein (SSP) promoters were isolated and studied using a transient expression analysis system. An oat globulin promoter (AsGlo1) capable of driving strong ES-specific expression in barley and wheat was identified. Progressive 5' deletions and cis element mutations demonstrated that the mechanism of specificity in the AsGlo1 promoter was distinct from that observed in glutelin and prolamin promoters. A novel interrupted palindromic sequence, ACATGTCATCATGT, was required for ES specificity and substantially contributed to expression strength of the AsGlo1 promoter. This sequence was termed the endosperm specificity palindrome (ESP) element. The GCN4 element, which has previously been shown to be required for ES specificity in cereal SSP promoters, had a quantitative role but was not required for tissue specificity. The 960-bp AsGlo1 promoter and a 251-bp deletion containing the ESP element also drove ES-specific expression in stably transformed barley. Reporter gene protein accumulated at very high levels (10% of total soluble protein) in ES tissues of plants transformed with an AsGlo1:GFP construct. Expression strength and tissue specificity were maintained over five transgenic generations. These attributes make the AsGlo1 promoter an ideal promoter for biotechnology applications. In conjunction with previous findings, our data demonstrate that there is more than one genetically distinct mechanism by which ES specificity can be achieved in cereal SSP promoters, and also suggest that there is redundancy between transcriptional and post-transcriptional tissue specificity mechanisms in cereal globulin genes.
Previously, we reported that avenanthramide-c (Avn-c), one of the major avenanthramides, polyphenols of oats, inhibited the serum-induced proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells (SMC), which is an important process in the initiation and development of atherosclerosis. In the present study, we further investigated its cell cycle inhibitory mechanism. Rat embryonic aortic smooth muscle cell line A10 was used in this study. Flow cytometry analysis revealed that treatment of A10 cells with 80 muM Avn-c arrested the cell cycle in G1 phase as indicated by an increase in the number of cells in G1 phase and a decrease in the number of cells in S phase. This cell cycle arrest was associated with a decrease in the phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein (pRb), whose hyperphosphorylation is a hallmark of the G1 to S transition in the cell cycle. The inhibition of pRb phosphorylation with Avn-c was accompanied by a decrease in cyclin D1 expression and an increase in cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21cip1 expression, without significant changes in p27kip1 expression. Furthermore, Avn-c treatment increased the expression level and stability of p53 protein, which could account for the increase of p21cip1 expression. Our results demonstrate for the first time that Avn-c, which is a unique polyphenol found in oats, arrests SMC proliferation at G1 phase by upregulating the p53-p21cip1 pathway and inhibiting pRB phosphorylation. This inhibitory effect of Avn-c on SMC proliferation is an additional indication for the potential health benefit of oat consumption in the prevention of coronary heart disease beyond its known effect through lowering blood cholesterol.
Here we report that rRNA and mRNA are specifically degraded in oat (Avena sativa L.) cells during apoptotic cell death induced by victorin, a host-selective toxin produced by Cochliobolus victoriae. Northern analysis indicated that rRNA species from the cytosol, mitochondria and chloroplasts were all degraded via specific degradation intermediates during victorin-induced apoptotic cell death but, in contrast, they were randomly digested in necrotic cell death induced by 30 mM CuSO(4) and heat shock. This indicates that specific rRNA cleavage could be controlled by an intrinsic program. We also observed specific cleavage of mRNA of housekeeping genes such as actin and ubiquitin during victorin-induced cell death. Interestingly, no victorin-induced mRNA degradation was detected with stress-responding genes such as PR-1, PR-10 and GPx throughout the experimental period. The RNA degradation mostly, but not always, occurred in parallel with DNA laddering, but pharmacological studies indicated that these processes are regulated by different signaling pathways with some overlapping upstream signals.
During acclimation to drought stress, the lipid composition of oat root cell membranes is altered. The level of phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), a non-bilayer forming lipid, is increased relative to the bilayer-forming lipid phosphatidylcholine (PC). These changes are believed to increase stress tolerance by increasing the flexibility of the membranes. To elucidate if de novo lipid synthesis is involved in altering membrane lipid composition, oat plants, acclimated or non-acclimated, were incubated in vivo with radioactively labelled lipid precursors. The labelling pattern indicated that de novo synthesis, at least partly, is causing the alterations. In plants, phospholipids can be synthesized by the Kennedy pathway, with addition of activated head groups to diacylglycerol (DAG) or, alternatively, via the CDP-DAG pathway, where phospahtidylserine (PS) is decarboxylated to form PE. To reveal the importance of the respective pathways during acclimation, we studied the effect of a decarboxylase inhibitor and the relative incorporation of [(3)H]-serine and [(14)C]-ethanolamine in vivo. Activities of CTP:ethanolaminephosphate cytidyltransferase (EC 2.7.7.14), phosphatidylserine decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.65) and phosphatidylserine synthase; CDP-DAG:L-serine o-phosphatidyltransferase (EC 2.7.8.8) were measured and additionally, the presence of a PS decarboxylase (PSD1) in oat was confirmed by immunoblotting. The results suggest that PE synthesis via the Kennedy pathway is downregulated during acclimation and that synthesis by PS decarboxylation, via the CDP-DAG pathway, is increased, mainly through an increased activity of PS synthase.
We have previously demonstrated that wild-type Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes lack arginine decarboxylase (ADC) enzymatic activity as well as its encoding gene. A foreign ADC has recently been expressed in T. cruzi after transformation with a recombinant plasmid containing the complete coding region of the oat ADC gene. In the present study, upon modulation of exogenous ADC expression, we found that ADC activity was detected early after transfection; subsequently it decreased to negligible levels between 2 and 3 weeks after electroporation and was again detected approximately 4 weeks after electroporation. After this period, the ADC activity increased markedly and became expressed permanently. These changes of enzymatic activity showed a close correlation with the corresponding levels of ADC transcripts. To investigate whether the genome organization of the transgenic T. cruzi underwent any modification related to the expression of the heterologous gene, we performed PCR amplification assays, restriction mapping and pulse-field gel electrophoresis with DNA samples or chromosomes obtained from parasites collected at different time-points after transfection. The results indicated that the transforming plasmid remained as free episomes during the transient expression of the foreign gene. Afterwards, the free plasmid disappeared almost completely for several weeks and, finally, when the expression of the ADC gene became stable, two or more copies of the transforming plasmid arranged in tandem were integrated into a parasite chromosome (1.4 Mbp) bearing a ribosomal RNA locus. The sensitivity of transcription to alpha-amanitin strongly suggests involvement of the protozoan RNA polymerase I in the transcription of the exogenous ADC gene.
The nitrate-regulated promoter of narG in Escherichia coli was fused to promoterless ice nucleation (inaZ) and green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter genes to yield the nitrate-responsive gene fusions in plasmids pNice and pNgfp, respectively. While the promoter of narG is normally nitrate responsive only under anaerobic conditions, the L28H-fnr gene was provided in trans to enable nitrate-dependent expression of these reporter gene fusions even under aerobic conditions in both E. coli DH5alpha and Enterobacter cloacae EcCT501R. E. cloacae and E. coli cells containing the fusion plasmid pNice exhibited more than 100-fold-higher ice nucleation activity in cultures amended with 10 mM sodium nitrate than in nitrate-free media. The GFP fluorescence of E. cloacae cells harboring pNgfp was uniform at a given concentration of nitrate and increased about 1,000-fold when nitrate increased from 0 to 1 mM. Measurable induction of ice nucleation in E. cloacae EcCT501R harboring pNice occurred at nitrate concentrations of as low as 0.1 microM, while GFP fluorescence was detected in cells harboring pNgfp at about 10 microM. In the rhizosphere of wild oat (Avena fatua), the whole-cell bioreporter E.cloacae(pNgfp) or E. cloacae(pNice) expressed significantly higher GFP fluorescence or ice nucleation activity when the plants were grown in natural soils amended with nitrate than in unamended natural soils. Significantly lower nitrate abundance was detected by the E. cloacae(pNgfp) reporter in the A. fatua rhizosphere compared to in bulk soil, indicating plant competition for nitrate. Ice- and GFP-based bacterial sensors thus are useful for estimating nitrate availability in relevant microbial niches in natural environments.
It is known that microinjection of galanin (GAL) intraventricularly or in specific hypothalamic sites increases food consumption and, conversely, the intake of food increases the expression of GAL in hypothalamic sites. Ethanol (EtOH) is a calorie-rich food as well as a drug of abuse. The research reviewed here shows that GAL may play a similar role in alcohol intake. First, experiments in which GAL was microinjected into the third ventricle or the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) showed increases in EtOH consumption. The increase in EtOH consumption occurred during both the light and dark cycles after GAL injection in the third ventricle in rats with limited EtOH access. Injection of GAL did not increase food intake in rats that had been chronically drinking alcohol. GAL receptor blockade reversed these increases. Microinjection of GAL directly into the PVN also increased ad libitum EtOH intake and blockade of these receptors in the PVN inhibited ad libitum EtOH consumption. Secondly, rats administered EtOH showed increases in GAL in the PVN and related hypothalamic sites. EtOH injection and voluntary intake, both ad libitum and limited access, increased GAL gene and peptide expression in the PVN consistently across administration procedures. These experiments show that GAL injection increases alcohol intake and that the intake of alcohol increases GAL, suggesting a positive feedback relationship between alcohol intake and specific hypothalamic GAL systems. Such a relationship may contribute to the motivation to consume excessive alcoholic beverages and the development of alcohol dependence.
We have developed an oat cell-free apoptosis system to investigate the execution mechanisms of plant apoptosis. Cell extracts derived from oat tissues undergoing toxin (victorin)-induced apoptosis caused nuclear collapse and internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in isolated nuclei. Pharmacological studies revealed that cysteine protease, which is E-64-sensitive but insensitive to caspase-specific inhibitors, is a crucial component in the morphological change of isolated nuclei, and that nuclease and the cysteine protease act cooperatively to induce the apoptotic DNA laddering. Interestingly, this finding is contrasted with those in well-studied animal cell-free systems in which an apoptotic endonuclease is solely responsible for the DNA fragmentation.
Wild-type Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes lack arginine decarboxylase (ADC) enzymatic activity. However, the transformation of these parasites with a recombinant plasmid containing the oat ADC cDNA coding region gave rise to the transient heterologous expression of the enzyme, suggesting the absence of endogenous mechanisms that could inhibit the expression of a hypothetical own ADC gene or the assay used to measure its enzymatic activity. The foreign ADC enzyme expressed in the transgenic T. cruzi was characterized by identification of the products, the stoichiometry of the catalysed reaction, the specific inhibition by alpha-difluoromethylarginine (DFMA) and the study of its metabolic turnover. The half-life of the heterologous ADC activity in T. cruzi was about 150 min. Bioinformatics studies and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analyses seem to indicate the absence of ADC-like DNA sequences in the wild-type T. cruzi genome.
Barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) generates three 3'-coterminal subgenomic RNAs (sgRNAs) in infected cells. Translation of BYDV genomic RNA (gRNA) and sgRNA1 is mediated by the BYDV cap-independent translation element (BTE) in the 3' untranslated region. sgRNAs 2 and 3 are unlikely to be mRNAs. We proposed that accumulation of sgRNA2, which contains the BTE in its 5' UTR, regulates BYDV replication by trans-inhibiting translation of the viral polymerase from genomic RNA (gRNA). Here, we tested this hypothesis and found that: (i) co-inoculation of the BTE or sgRNA2 with BYDV RNA inhibits BYDV RNA accumulation in protoplasts; (ii) Brome mosaic virus (BMV), engineered to contain the BTE, trans-inhibits BYDV replication; and (iii) sgRNA2 generated during BYDV infection trans-inhibits both GFP expression from BMV RNA and translation of a non-viral reporter mRNA. We conclude that sgRNA2, via its BTE, functions as a riboregulator to inhibit translation of gRNA. This may make gRNA available as a replicase template and for encapsidation. Thus, BYDV sgRNA2 joins a growing list of trans-acting regulatory RNAs.
Biotechnological uses of plant cell-tissue culture usually rely on constitutive transgene expression. However, such expression of transgenes may not always be desirable. In those cases, the use of an inducible promoter could be an alternative approach. To test this hypothesis, we developed two binary vectors harboring a stress-inducible promoter from Arabidopsis thaliana, driving the beta-glucuronidase reporter gene and the oat arginine decarboxylase. Transgenic hairy roots of Lotus corniculatus were obtained with osmotic- and cold-inducible beta-glucuronidase and arginine decarboxylase activities. The increase in the activity of the latter was accompanied by a significant rise in total free polyamines level. Through an organogenesis process, we obtained L. corniculatus transgenic plants avoiding deleterious phenotypes frequently associated with the constitutive over-expression of arginine decarboxylation and putrescine accumulation.
The evolution of the ability to synthesize specialized metabolites is likely to have been key for survival and diversification of different plant species. Oats (Avena spp.) produce antimicrobial triterpenoids (avenacins) that protect against disease. The oat beta-amyrin synthase gene AsbAS1, which encodes the first committed enzyme in the avenacin biosynthetic pathway, is clearly distinct from other plant beta-amyrin synthases. Here we show that AsbAS1 has arisen by duplication and divergence of a cycloartenol synthase-like gene, and that its properties have been refined since the divergence of oats and wheat. Strikingly, we have also found that AsbAS1 is clustered with other genes required for distinct steps in avenacin biosynthesis in a region of the genome that is not conserved in other cereals. Because the components of this gene cluster are required for at least four clearly distinct enzymatic processes (2,3-oxidosqualene cyclization, beta-amyrin oxidation, glycosylation, and acylation), it is unlikely that the cluster has arisen as a consequence of duplication of a common ancestor. Although clusters of paralogous genes are common in plants (e.g., gene clusters for rRNA and specific disease resistance), reports of clusters of genes that do not share sequence relatedness and whose products contribute to a single selectable function are rare [Gierl, A. & Frey, M. (2001) Planta 213, 493-498]. Taken together, our evidence has important implications for the generation of metabolic diversity in plants.
Drugs abused by humans are thought to activate areas in the ventral striatum of the brain that engage the organism in important adaptive behaviors, such as eating. In support of this, we report here that striatal regions of sugar-dependent rats show alterations in dopamine and opioid mRNA levels similar to morphine-dependent rats. Specifically, after a chronic schedule of intermittent bingeing on a sucrose solution, mRNA levels for the D2 dopamine receptor, and the preproenkephalin and preprotachykinin genes were decreased in dopamine-receptive regions of the forebrain, while D3 dopamine receptor mRNA was increased. While morphine affects gene expression across the entire dopamine-receptive striatum, significant differences were detected in the effects of sugar on the nucleus accumbens and adjacent caudate-putamen. The effects of sugar on mRNA levels were of greater magnitude in the nucleus accumbens than in the caudate-putamen. These areas also showed clear differences in the interactions among the genes, especially between D3R and the other genes. This was revealed by a novel multivariate analysis method that identified cooperative interactions among genes, specifically in the nucleus accumbens but not the caudate-putamen. Finally, a role for these cooperative interactions in a load-sharing response to perturbations caused by sugar was supported by the finding of a different pattern of correlations between the genes in the two striatal regions. These findings support a major role for the nucleus accumbens in mediating the effects of naturally rewarding substances and extend an animal model for studying the common substrates of drug addiction and eating disorders.
In recent years, access to complete genomic sequences, coupled with rapidly accumulating data related to RNA and protein expression patterns, has made it possible to determine comprehensively how genes contribute to complex phenotypes. However, for major crop plants, publicly available, standard platforms for parallel expression analysis have been limited. We report the conception and design of the new publicly available, 22K Barley1 GeneChip probe array, a model for plants without a fully sequenced genome. Array content was derived from worldwide contribution of 350,000 high-quality ESTs from 84 cDNA libraries, in addition to 1,145 barley (Hordeum vulgare) gene sequences from the National Center for Biotechnology Information nonredundant database. Conserved sequences expressed in seedlings of wheat (Triticum aestivum), oat (Avena strigosa), rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and maize (Zea mays) were identified that will be valuable in the design of arrays across grasses. To enhance the usability of the data, BarleyBase, a MIAME-compliant, MySQL relational database, serves as a public repository for raw and normalized expression data from the Barley1 GeneChip probe array. Interconnecting links with PlantGDB and Gramene allow BarleyBase users to perform gene predictions using the 21,439 non-redundant Barley1 exemplar sequences or cross-species comparison at the genome level, respectively. We expect that this first generation array will accelerate hypothesis generation and gene discovery in disease defense pathways, responses to abiotic stresses, development, and evolutionary diversity in monocot plants.
Two oat genes encoding hydroxycinnamoyl-CoA:hydroxyanthranilate N-hydroxycinnamoyltransferase (HHT) and S-adenosyl-L-methionine:trans-caffeoyl-CoA 3-O-methyltransferase (CCoAOMT), both of which are possibly involved in the biosynthesis of oat avenanthramide phytoalexins, were cloned and their expression profiles in response to biological stress were studied. Four distinct cDNAs of oat HHT (AsHHT1-4) were isolated with the degenerative polymerase chain reaction method. The enzymatic activity of AsHHT1 expressed in E. coli was found using hydroxyanthranilate and hydroxycinnamoyl-CoAs as cosubstrates. Cloned oat CCoAOMT (AsCCoAOMT) encoded a polypeptide of 130 amino acid residues with 77.7 to 80.8% identities to the CCoAOMT sequences from other plant species. The accumulation of AsHHT1 and AsCCoAOMT transcripts increased concomitantly with phytoalexin accumulation by the treatment of victorin, a specific elicitor in oat lines carrying the Pc-2/Vb gene. Pharmacological approaches indicated the involvement of Ca2+, NO, and protein kinases in the signaling pathways of AsHHT1 and AsCCoAOMT mRNA induction. When oat leaves were inoculated with Puccinia coronata, the mRNA expression of AsHHT1 and AsCCOAOMT increased in both incompatible and compatible interactions but more rapidly in incompatible interaction. Interestingly, however, significant phytoalexin accumulation was observed only in incompatible interaction during the experimental period, suggesting that phytoalexin accumulation may be inhibited in one or more posttranscriptional processes in the compatible interaction.
Two oat varieties, Melys (spring variety) and Bulwark (winter variety) were transformed by particle bombardment of primary embryogenic callus using either a ubi-bar-ubi-gus co-integration vector or co-transformed (Melys) with a ubi-bar plasmid together with one of three plasmids containing the beta-glucuronidase (gus) gene under the control of either a rice actin promoter, a CaMV35S promoter or a wheat high molecular weight glutenin promoter. Morphologically normal and fertile transgenic plants were regenerated following callus selection with glufosinate ammonium. Evidence for the integration and functioning of the selectable (bar) and reporter (gus) genes in T0 and T1 plants was confirmed by PCR, Southern hybridisation, fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH), histochemical assays, and by progeny analysis. Transformation rates varied from 0.2 to 5.0 lines/plate of callus bombarded, with co-transformation frequencies of 83 to 100%, and co-expression frequencies of 60 to 100%. Copy numbers for the bar and gus gene varied from 3 to 17 and from 2 to 20 respectively. Cell and tissue specific expression of the gus gene was evident from the different promoters, with the HMW glutenin promoter showing endosperm specific expression in T1 seed. No expression of the gus gene under the CaMV35S promoter was detected in any tissues. Progeny analysis provided evidence of Mendelian inheritance of the introduced genes suggesting either one or two unlinked integration sites. This was confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridisation to chromosome spread preparations. No segregation of the gus gene from the bar gene was observed in any of the progeny derived from co-transformation.
We investigated whether down-regulation of arginine decarboxylase (ADC) activity and concomitant changes in polyamine levels result in changes in the expression of downstream genes in the polyamine pathway. We generated transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants in which the rice adc gene was down-regulated by expression of its antisense oat (Avena sativa L.) ortholog. Plants expressed the oat mRNA adc transcript at different levels. The endogenous transcript was down-regulated in five out of eight plant lineages we studied in detail. Reduction in the steady-state rice adc mRNA levels resulted in a concomitant decrease in ADC activity. The putrescine and spermidine pool was significantly reduced in plants with lower ADC activity. Expression of the rice ornithine decarboxylase (odc), S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (samdc) and spermidine synthase (spd syn) transcripts was not affected. We demonstrate that even though levels of the key metabolites in the pathway were compromised, this did not influence steady-state transcription levels of the other genes involved in the pathway. Our results provide an insight into the different regulatory mechanisms that control gene expression in the polyamine biosynthetic pathway in plants by demonstrating that the endogenous pathway is uncoupled from manipulations that modulate polyamine levels by expression of orthologous transgenes.
Alcoholism can be viewed as a motivational disorder that results from alterations in brain systems for ingestive behavior. Therefore, it was hypothesized that alcohol intake might alter the expression of hypothalamic peptides that stimulate feeding. Earlier studies showed that hypothalamic injection of the feeding-stimulatory peptide, galanin (GAL), increases the release of dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), as does systemic alcohol, leading to a focus on GAL. Results of this study demonstrate the following: (1). Ethanol, injected daily (0.8 g/kg 10% v/v) for 7 days in male rats, markedly increased the expression of GAL but not of neuropeptide Y (NPY). This occurred in specific hypothalamic nuclei, namely the dorsomedial nucleus (DMN), paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and perifornical lateral hypothalamus (PLH). (2). Rats induced to drink ethanol ad libitum, by gradually increasing the concentration from 1% to 9% v/v without adding sugar or flavoring, exhibited a similar stimulation of GAL mRNA in the PVN and GAL immunoreactivity in the DMN and PVN. (3). Rats given increasing ethanol concentrations, with 12 h access starting 4 h into the dark cycle, had a mean blood alcohol concentration of 18 mg/dl and exhibited a similar increase in GAL expression in the DMN and PVN. (4) Withdrawal from the opioid effects of 9% ethanol, produced by injection of naloxone (3 mg/kg sc), reversed this ethanol effect by significantly reducing GAL expression in the DMN and PLH below baseline levels. These studies suggest a possible role for hypothalamic GAL in alcohol abuse.
The expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) and its inheritance were studied in transgenic oat ( Avena sativa L.) plants transformed with a synthetic green fluorescent protein gene [sgfp(S65T)] driven by a rice actin promoter. In vitro shoot meristematic cultures (SMCs) induced from shoot apices of germinating mature seeds of a commercial oat cultivar, Garry, were used as a transformation target. Proliferating SMCs were bombarded with a mixture of plasmids containing the sgfp(S65T) gene and one of three selectable marker genes, phosphinothricin acetyltransferase (bar), hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) and neomycin phosphotransferase (nptII). Cultures were selected with bialaphos, hygromycin B and geneticin (G418), respectively, to identify transgenic tissues. From 289 individual explants bombarded with the sgfp(S65T) gene and one of the three selectable marker genes, 23 independent transgenic events were obtained, giving a 8.0% transformation frequency. All 23 transgenic events were regenerable, and 64% produced fertile plants. Strong GFP expression driven by the rice actin promoter was observed in a variety of tissues of the T(0) plants and their progeny in 13 out of 23 independent transgenic lines. Stable GFP expression was observed in T(2) progeny from five independent GFP-expressing lines tested, and homozygous plants from two lines were obtained. Transgene silencing was observed in T(0) plants and their progeny of some transgenic lines.
A cDNA sequence (Hbc8-2) isolated from pistils of the self-incompatible species Hordeum bulbosum was analysed for expression pattern and genetic map location. Hbc8-2 was expressed just prior to anthesis in mature pistils, and expression was maintained at a high level throughout anthesis. The same expression pattern was found in self-incompatible rye ( Secale cereale), but no expression was detected in the self-compatible cereals wheat ( Triticum aestivum) or barley ( Hordeum vulgare) at comparable stages of development. However, three wheat expressed sequence tags from a pre-anthesis library had high homology to Hbc8-2. Southern blot analyses using Hbc8-2 as a probe detected hybridising bands in the genomes of various Gramineae species including rye, barley, bread wheat, wild wheat relatives ( Aegilops tauschii and Ae. speltoides), oats ( Avena fatua and A. strigosa), rice ( Oryza sativa) and maize ( Zea mays). This suggests that Hbc8-2-like sequences are present in many species but that high levels of expression may be associated with self-incompatibility. Hbc8-2 was mapped on the long arms of chromosome 2H(b) of H. bulbosum, 2R of rye, and 2B and 2D of wheat and was assigned to chromosome 2H of barley using wheat/barley addition lines. On a H. bulbosum genetic map, Xhbc8-2 was located between Xbcd266 and Xpsr87, while in rye and wheat it was located in a 13.2-cM interval between Xpsr331 and Xpsr932, consistent with previous comparative mapping studies of these species. Mapping in rye suggested that Hbc8-2 is probably proximal to the Z self-incompatibility locus which was previously shown to be tightly linked to Xbcd266.
Temperate zone woody plants cold acclimate in response to both short daylength (SD) and low temperature (LT). We were able to show that these two environmental cues induce cold acclimation independently by comparing the wild type (WT) and the transgenic hybrid aspen (Populus tremula x Populus tremuloides Michx.) line 22 overexpressing the oat (Avena sativa) PHYTOCHROME A gene. Line 22 was not able to detect the SD and, consequently, did not stop growing in SD conditions. This resulted in an impaired freezing tolerance development under SD. In contrast, exposure to LT resulted in cold acclimation of line 22 to a degree comparable with the WT. In contrast to the WT, line 22 could not dehydrate the overwintering tissues or induce the production of dehydrins (DHN) under SD conditions. Furthermore, abscisic acid (ABA) content of the buds of line 22 were the same under SD and long daylength, whereas prolonged SD exposure decreased the ABA level in the WT. LT exposure resulted in a rapid accumulation of DHN in both the WT and line 22. Similarly, ABA content increased transiently in both the WT and line 22. Our results indicate that phytochrome A is involved in photoperiodic regulation of ABA and DHN levels, but at LT they are regulated by a different mechanism. Although SD and LT induce cold acclimation independently, ABA and DHN may play important roles in both modes of acclimation.
The maize (Zea mays) Viviparous 1 (Vp1) transcription factor has been shown previously to be a major regulator of seed development, simultaneously activating embryo maturation and repressing germination. Hexaploid bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) caryopses are characterized by relatively weak embryo dormancy and are susceptible to preharvest sprouting (PHS), a phenomenon that is phenotypically similar to the maize vp1 mutation. Analysis of Vp-1 transcript structure in wheat embryos during grain development showed that each homeologue produces cytoplasmic mRNAs of different sizes. The majority of transcripts are spliced incorrectly, contain insertions of intron sequences or deletions of coding region, and do not have the capacity to encode full-length proteins. Several VP-1-related lower molecular weight protein species were present in wheat embryo nuclei. Embryos of a closely related tetraploid species (Triticum turgidum) and ancestral diploids also contained misspliced Vp-1 transcripts that were structurally similar or identical to those found in modern hexaploid wheat, which suggests that compromised structure and expression of Vp-1 transcripts in modern wheat are inherited from ancestral species. Developing embryos from transgenic wheat grains expressing the Avena fatua Vp1 gene showed enhanced responsiveness to applied abscisic acid compared with the control. In addition, ripening ears of transgenic plants were less susceptible to PHS. Our results suggest that missplicing of wheat Vp-1 genes contributes to susceptibility to PHS in modern hexaploid wheat varieties and identifies a possible route to increase resistance to this environmentally triggered disorder.
The duplicated and rearranged nature of plant genomes frequently complicates identification, chromosomal assignment and eventual manipulation of DNA segments. Separating an individual chromosome from its native complement by adding it to an alien genetic background together with the generation of radiation hybrids from such an addition line can enable or simplify structural and functional analyses of complex duplicated genomes. We have established fertile disomic addition lines for each of the individual maize chromosomes, except chromosome 10, with oat as the host species; DNA is available for chromosome 10 in a haploid oat background. We report on instability and transmission in disomic additions of maize chromosomes 1, 5, and 8; the chromosome 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, and 9 additions appear stable. The photoperiodic response of the two recovered maize chromosome 1 addition lines contrasts to the long-day flowering response of the oat parents and the other addition lines. Only when grown under short days did maize chromosome 1 addition lines set seed, and only one line transmitted the maize chromosome 1 to offspring. Low resolution radiation hybrid maps are presented for maize chromosomes 2 and 9 to illustrate the use of radiation hybrids for rapid physical mapping of large numbers of DNA sequences, such as ESTs. The potential of addition and radiation hybrid lines for mapping duplicated sequences or gene families to chromosome segments is presented and also the use of the lines to test interactions between genes located on different maize chromosomes as observed for ectopic expression of cell fate alterations.
We determined the 3prime prime or minute-terminal primary and secondary structures required for replication of Barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) RNA in oat protoplasts. Computer predictions, nuclease probing, phylogenetic comparisons, and replication assays of specific mutants and chimeras revealed that the 3prime prime or minute-terminal 109 nucleotides (nt) form a structure with three to four stem-loops followed by a coaxially stacked helix incorporating the last four nt [(A/U)CCC]. Sequences upstream of the 109-nt region also contributed to RNA accumulation. The base-pairing but not the sequences or bulges in the stems were essential for replication, but any changes to the 3prime prime or minute-terminal helix destroyed replication. The two 3prime prime or minute-proximal tetraloops tolerated all changes, but the two 3prime prime or minute-distal tetraloops gave most efficient replication if they fit the GNRA consensus. A mutant lacking the 3prime prime or minute-proximal stem-loop produced elevated levels of less-than-full-length minus strands, and no (+) strand. We propose that a "pocket" structure is the origin of (minus sign)-strand synthesis, which is negatively regulated by the inaccessible conformation of the 3prime prime or minute terminus, thus favoring a high (+)/(minus sign) ratio. This 3prime prime or minute structure and the polymerase homologies suggest that genus Luteovirus is more closely related to the Tombusviridae family than to other Luteoviridae genera.
Transcriptionally active Ty1-copia LTR-retrotransposons were found in oat using RT-PCR for amplifying the reverse transcriptase domain. Sequence analysis of the RT-PCR clones suggested that oat LTR-retrotransposons consist of at least seven groups, which were tentatively designated as Oatrt1 to Oatrt7. A full length copy of Oatrt1 was isolated from an oat genomic library, and was designated OARE-1. OARE-1 was 8,665 bp long and a member of the BARE-1 subgroup. The oat genome carried it in multiple copies (at least 10,000 copies / a hexaploid genome). The expression of OARE-1 was intensively induced by wounding, UV light, jasmonic acid and salicylic acid, and its pattern was very similar to that of the PAL (phenylalanin ammonia lyase) gene. Furthermore, OARE-1 was highly activated by infection with an incompatible race of the crown rust fungus, Puccinia coronata. These results suggest that OARE-1 is highly sensitive to various abiotic and biotic stimuli leading to plant defense responses.
A novel protein elicitor (PaNie(234)) from Pythium aphanidermatum (Edson) Fitzp. was purified, microsequenced, and the corresponding cDNA was cloned. The deduced amino acid sequence contains a putative eukaryotic secretion signal with a proteinase cleavage site. The heterologously expressed elicitor protein without the secretion signal of 21 amino acids (PaNie(213)) triggered programmed cell death and de novo formation of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid in cultured cells of carrot (Daucus carota). Programmed cell death was determined using the tetrazolium assay and DNA laddering. Infiltration of PaNie(213) into the intercellular space of leaves of Arabidopsis (Columbia-0, wild type) resulted in necroses and deposition of callose on the cell walls of spongy parenchyma cells surrounding the necrotic mesophyll cells. Necroses were also formed in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv Wisconsin W38, wild type) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) but not in maize (Zea mays), oat (Avena sativa), and Tradescantia zebrina (Bosse), indicating that monocotyledonous plants are unable to perceive the signal. The reactions observed after treatment with the purified PaNie(213) were identical to responses measured after treatment with a crude elicitor preparation from the culture medium of P. aphanidermatum, described previously. The availability of the pure protein offers the possibility to isolate the corresponding receptor and its connection to downstream signaling-inducing defense reactions.
Histological and cytological evidence of where and when apoptotic cells occur in Pc-2/Vb oat cells treated with victorin was obtained by observing DNA strand breaks at both light (LM) and electron microscope (EM) levels using TUNEL techniques. DNA from leaf segments that had been floated on victorin solution with the abaxial epidermis removed showed typical ladders on agarose gels. Nuclear chromatin condensation, followed by cell collapse, started in the mesophyll cells closest to the victorin solution. LM-TUNEL was positive in the non-collapsed cells but not in the collapsed cells in the treated leaves. However, the EM-TUNEL assay was positive in the nuclei of the non-collapsed as well as the collapsed cells where nuclear fragments dispersed into the cytoplasm, and the immunogold density was much higher than that in the cells killed by a high concentration of H2O2, suggesting that the victorin-treated collapsed cells are in the last stage of apoptotic cell death. The immunogold labelling in the victorin-treated non-collapsed cells was restricted to condensed heterochromatin, indicating that chromatin condensation is associated with DNA cleavage. Pharmacological studies indicated that proteases and nucleases may play a role in the apoptotic response. However, the EM-TUNEL assay indicated that EGTA co-incubated with victorin blocked DNA cleavage, but failed to prevent chromatin condensation. Moreover, protein kinases were involved in chromatin condensation, but did not affect DNA digestion, suggesting that chromatin condensation and DNA cleavage are differentially regulated in the death process in oats.
Programmed ribosomal frameshifting allows one mRNA to encode regulate expression of, multiple open reading frames (ORFs). The polymerase encoded by ORF 2 of Barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) is expressed via minus one (-1) frameshifting from the overlapping ORF 1. Previously, this appeared to be mediated by a 116 nt RNA sequence that contains canonical -1 frameshift signals including a shifty heptanucleotide followed by a highly structured region. However, unlike known -1 frameshift signals, the reporter system required the zero frame stop codon and did not require a consensus shifty site for expression of the -1 ORF. In contrast, full-length viral RNA required a functional shifty site for frameshifting in wheat germ extract, while the stop codon was not required. Increasing translation initiation efficiency by addition of a 5' cap on the naturally uncapped viral RNA, decreased the frameshift rate. Unlike any other known RNA, a region four kilobases downstream of the frameshift site was required for frameshifting. This included an essential 55 base tract followed by a 179 base tract that contributed to full frameshifting. The effects of most mutations on frameshifting correlated with the ability of viral RNA to replicate in oat protoplasts, indicating that the wheat germ extract accurately reflected control of BYDV RNA translation in the infected cell. However, the overall frameshift rate appeared to be higher in infected cells, based on immunodetection of viral proteins. These findings show that use of short recoding sequences out of context in reporter constructs may overlook distant signals. Most importantly, the remarkably long-distance interaction reported here suggests the presence of a novel structure that can facilitate ribosomal frameshifting.
A large fraction of the genomes of grasses, members of the family Graminae, is composed of retrotransposons. These elements resemble animal retroviruses in their structure and possess a life cycle similar to theirs that includes transcription, translation, and integration of daughter copies. We have investigated if retrotransposons are generally transcribed in the grasses and other plants, and whether the various families of elements are translationally and integrationally active in multiple grass species. A systematic search of 7.8 x 10(5) publicly available expressed sequence tags from plants revealed widespread retrotransposon transcripts at a frequency of one in 1,000. Monocot retrotransposons found relatively more expressed sequence tags from non-source species than did those of dicots. Antibodies were raised to the capsid protein, GAG, of BARE-1, a transcribed and translated copia-like retrotransposon of barley (Hordeum vulgare). These detected immunoreactive proteins of sizes identical to those of the BARE-1 GAG and polyprotein, respectively, in other species of the tribe Triticeae as well as in oats (Avena sativa) and rice (Oryza sativa). Retrotransposon-based markers showed integrational polymorphisms for BARE-1 in different subfamilies of the Graminae. The results suggest that grasses share families of transcriptionally, translationally, and integrationally active retrotransposons, enabling a comparative and integrative approach to understanding the life cycle of retrotransposons and their impact on the genome.
Oat- (Avena sativa) maize (Zea mays) chromosome additions are produced by crossing maize and oat. During early embryo development maize chromosomes are preferentially eliminated, and oat plants are often recovered that retain a single maize chromosome. Each of the 10 maize chromosomes recently has been isolated as a separate oat-maize addition. We describe here the mapping of 400 maize sequences to chromosomes using polymerase chain reaction and DNA from the oat-maize addition material. Fifty of the sequences were from cloned markers that had been previously mapped by linkage analysis, and our results were consistent with those obtained using Southern-blot analysis. Previously unmapped expressed sequence tags and sequence tagged sites (350) were mapped to chromosomes. Maize gene sequences and expression data are rapidly being accumulated. Coupling this information with positional information from high throughput mapping programs provides plant biologists powerful tools for identifying candidate genes of interest.
An analysis of protein synthesis at elevated temperatures in oat (Avena sativa) leaves revealed a heat-induced 44 kDa polypeptide. A cDNA library of heat-treated leaves was constructed and screened with specific antibodies raised against this 44 kDa polypeptide. A clone encoding the 44 kDa protein was identified as a form of the chloroplast-localized fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (EC 4.1.2.13). Northern and western blot analyses indicated heat-induced accumulation of the chloroplast aldolase isoform at both the RNA and protein level. Heat inducibility was restricted to the chloroplastic form of the enzyme, and was not observed for the cytoplasmic aldolase. The heat-induced isoform co-purified with thykaloid fractions, as confirmed by immunoassay and activity analyses. However, when thylakoid membranes were treated with proteinase K, the aldolase isoform completely disappeared, suggesting that this enzyme is not embedded but rather tends to adhere to the chloroplast membranes. Immunoblot analysis of other plant species revealed similar heat induction of thykaloid-associated aldolase homologues, suggesting the possible existence of a universal control mechanism for this enzyme's heat tolerance
Maize chromosome addition lines of oat offer the opportunity to study maize gene expression in oat and the resulting phenotypes. Morphological examination of a maize chromosome 3 addition line of oat showed that this line exhibited several morphological abnormalities including a blade-to-sheath transformation at the midrib region of the leaf, a hook-shaped panicle, and abnormal outgrowth of aerial axillary buds. Dominant mutations in the maize liguleless3 (lg3) homeobox gene result in a blade (distal)-to-sheath (proximal) transformation at the midrib region of the leaf. Ectopic expression of the dominant mutant Lg3 allele is believed to cause the phenotype. Therefore, we suspected that the maize lg3 gene, which is located on maize chromosome 3, was involved in the phenotypes observed in the maize chromosome 3 addition line of oat. Genetic analyses of an oat BC1F2 family segregating for maize chromosome 3 showed that the presence of a stable maize chromosome 3 was required for the expression of these cell fate abnormalities. RNA expression analysis of leaf sheath tissue from oat plants carrying maize chromosome 3 demonstrated that maize LG3 transcripts accumulated in oat, indicating that this expression is associated with the blade-to-sheath transformation, hook-shaped panicle and outgrowth of aerial axillary bud phenotypes. Our results demonstrate that the maize chromosome addition lines of oat are useful genetic stocks to study expression of maize genes in oat.
Many plants produce constitutive antifungal molecules belonging to the saponin family of secondary metabolites, which have been implicated in plant defense. Successful pathogens of these plants must presumably have some means of combating the chemical defenses of their hosts. In the oat root pathogen Gaeumannomyces graminis, the saponin-detoxifying enzyme avenacinase has been shown to be essential for pathogenicity. A number of other phytopathogenic fungi also produce saponin-degrading enzymes, although the significance of these for saponin resistance and pathogenicity has not yet been established. The tomato leaf spot pathogen Septoria lycopersici secretes the enzyme tomatinase, which degrades the tomato steroidal glycoalkaloid alpha-tomatine. Here we report the isolation and characterization of tomatinase-deficient mutants of S. lycopersici following targeted gene disruption. Tomatinase-minus mutants were more sensitive to alpha-tomatine than the wild-type strain. They could, however, still grow in the presence of 1 mM alpha-tomatine, suggesting that nondegradative mechanisms of tolerance are also important. There were no obvious effects of loss of tomatinase on macroscopic lesion formation on tomato leaves, but trypan blue staining of infected tissue during the early stages of infection revealed more dying mesophyll cells in leaves that had been inoculated with tomatinase-minus mutants. Expression of a defense-related basic beta-1,3 glucanase gene was also enhanced in these leaves. These differences in plant response may be associated with subtle differences in the growth of the wild-type and mutant strains during infection. Alternatively, tomatinase may be involved in suppression of plant defense mechanisms.
We introduced the oat adc cDNA into rice under the control of the constitutive maize ubiquitin 1 promoter. We studied molecularly and biochemically sixteen independent transgenic plant lines. Significant increases in mRNA levels, ADC enzyme activity and polyamines were measured in transgenic callus. These increases were not maintained in vegetative tissue or seeds in regenerated plants, with the exception of one lineage. This particular lineage showed very significant increases in putrescine preferentially in seeds (up to 10 times compared to wild type and controls transformed with the hpt selectable marker alone). We have demonstrated that in cereals such as rice, over-expression of the oat adc cDNA results in increased accumulation of polyamines at different stages of development. We have also demonstrated that strong constitutive promoters, such as the maize ubiquitin 1 promoter, are sufficient to facilitate heritable high-level polyamine accumulation in seed. Our results demonstrate that by screening adequate numbers of independently derived transgenic plants, it is possible to identify those individuals which express a desired phenotype or genotype.
The phytopathogenic fungus Stagonospora avenae is able to infect oat leaves despite the presence of avenacoside saponins in the leaf tissue. In response to pathogen attack, avenacosides are converted into 26-desglucoavenacosides (26-DGAs), which possess antifungal activity. These molecules are comprised of a steroidal backbone linked to a branched sugar chain consisting of one alpha-L-rhamnose and two (avenacoside A) or three (avenacoside B) beta-D-glucose residues. Isolates of the fungus that are pathogenic to oats are capable of sequential hydrolysis of the sugar residues from the 26-DGAs. Degradation is initiated by removal of the L-rhamnose, which abolishes antifungal activity. The D-glucose residues are then hydrolyzed by beta-glucosidase activity. A comprehensive analysis of saponin-hydrolyzing activities was undertaken, and it was established that S. avenae isolate WAC1293 secretes three enzymes, one alpha-rhamnosidase and two beta-glucosidases, that carry out this hydrolysis. The major beta-glucosidase was purified and the gene encoding the enzyme cloned. The protein is similar to saponin-hydrolyzing enzymes produced by three other phytopathogenic fungi, Gaeumannomyces graminis, Septoria lycopersici, and Botrytis cinerea, and is a family 3 beta-glucosidase. The gene encoding the beta-glucosidase is expressed during infection of oat leaves but is not essential for pathogenicity.
In grass seedlings the network of cortical microtubules is reorganized during light-dependent growth of coleoptiles and mesocotyls. We investigated the effects of light-dependent growth on the relative steady-state levels of the mRNAs and protein levels of alpha-tubulin and the epsilon-subunit of the chaperonin containing tailless complex protein-1 in oat (Avena sativa) coleoptiles, which were grown in different light conditions to establish different growth responses. The soluble pools of the epsilon-subunit of the chaperonin containing tailless complex protein-1 and alpha-tubulin decreased in nonelongating coleoptiles, suggesting that the dynamics of the light-regulated soluble pool reflect the processes occurring during reorganization of cortical microtubules. The shifts in pool sizes are discussed in relation to the machinery that controls the dynamic structure of cortical microtubules in plant cells.
New selectable markers and selection systems are needed to increase the efficiency and flexibility of plant transformation. The objective of this research was to determine if the green fluorescent protein (gfp) gene could be utilized as a visual selectable marker for transformation of oat (Avena sativa L.). A modified gfp gene was delivered into oat cells by microprojectile bombardment. Cell clusters expressing gfp were visually identified using fluorescence microscopy and physically isolated at each subculture. Eleven independent transgenic cell lines were obtained, and fertile plants regenerated from all lines. Transgene integration and expression were confirmed in transgenic plants and progeny. Transgene expression segregated in a 3 : 1 ratio in progeny of the majority of the transgenic lines.
The Avena fatua (wild oat) homologue of VIVIPAROUS 1 (AfVP1) has been implicated in controlling the maintenance of embryo dormancy in mature imbibed seeds, but the detailed mechanisms by which this transcription factor family activates embryo maturation pathways and simultaneously represses germination are not known. A two-hybrid screen in yeast identified three proteins that interacted specifically with AfVP1 (AfVP1 interacting proteins; AfVIPs). AfVIPs 2 and 3 interacted with the C-terminus of AfVP1, which contains the B2 + B3 domains, previously shown to bind DNA, whereas AfVIP1 interacted with the isolated B3 domain. Using purified proteins in in vitro experiments, all three AfVIPs were shown also to interact with the Arabidopsis homologue ABSCISIC ACID INSENSITIVE 3 (ABI3). The three AfVIPs were expressed in both dormant and non-dormant embryos, but the abundance of AfVIP1 and 3 transcripts was greater in germinated than dormant seeds, whereas transcripts of AfVIP2 (and AfVP1) were more highly expressed in dormant embryos. The AfVIP3 protein has homology to a human cell-crisis gene with a predicted role in the cell cycle; AfVIP2 contains a ring-type zinc finger motif. These homologies, together with analysis of expression studies, suggest that these proteins may play specific roles in AfVP1-mediated regulation of the dormancy to germination transition in A. fatua seeds.
The genes AV1, AV10, and Z1 encode proteins that accumulate during oat seed development. In developing endosperm of Avena sativa (cultivated oat), AV1, AV10 and Z1 mRNAs reach maximal levels midway through seed development but fall to very low levels in mature seeds. Similarly, mRNAs for these proteins peak during endosperm development of Avena fatua (wild oat) and are later degraded. However, during late maturation of A. fatua seeds, populations of mRNA fragments shorter than the intact transcripts accumulate as the full-length transcripts decline in abundance. The smaller RNA molecules, which are apparently long-lived decay intermediates, are derived randomly from the entire transcripts and are most likely not generated by cleavage at precisely defined sites. Other A. fatua endosperm mRNAs that are degraded during late seed development, such as those for ADP glucose pyrophosphorylase and starch synthase, do not produce detectable decay intermediates. Decay intermediates of AV1 and Z1 mRNAs persist at high levels during late seed development of two other undomesticated oat species, Avena strigosa and Avena barbata. The persistence of decay intermediates for these endosperm mRNAs in wild grass species may represent a model system for studying RNA decay process in plant tissues.
We investigated the utility of noninvasive technology utilizing feces containing exfoliated colonocytes to determine whether changes in fecal fatty acid-binding proteins have predictive value in monitoring the neoplastic process. Ninety male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into four groups in a 2 x 2 factorial design, with two dietary fiber sources (wheat bran or oat bran) and two treatment groups (injection with a carcinogen, azoxymethane, or saline). Fresh fecal samples were collected at Week 16 postinjection, and tumor frequency was determined at Week 36 of the study. Semiquantitative "mimic" reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction was used to quantitate the expression of liver fatty acid-binding protein (L-FABP), intestinal fatty acid-binding protein (i-FABP), and acyl CoA-binding protein (ACBP) mRNA in fecal samples to establish their prognostic value. Rats fed wheat bran diets had a lower incidence of tumors (p < 0.05). There was no effect of carcinogen injection or tumor incidence on the expression of L-FABP, i-FABP, or ACBP mRNA, L-FABP and i-FABP mRNA expression were significantly higher (p < 0.05) in feces from animals fed a wheat bran diet than in feces from animals fed an oat bran diet. In contrast, the expression of ACBP mRNA was significantly lower (p < 0.05) in animals fed a wheat bran diet than in animals fed an oat bran diet. Wheat bran also increased (p < 0.05) the total excretion of L-FABP, i-FABP, and ACBP over a 48-hour period. These data suggest that exfoliated colonocyte fatty acid-binding protein mRNA status may provide insight into the mechanisms by which diet influences colonic physiology.
The phytochrome-encoding gene Cerpu;PHY;2 (CP2) of the moss Ceratodon purpureus was heterologously expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a polyhistidine-tagged apoprotein and assembled with phytochromobilin (P phi B) and phycocyanobilin (PCB). Nickel-affinity chromatography yielded a protein fraction containing approximately 80% phytochrome. The holoproteins showed photoreversibility with both chromophores. Difference spectra gave maxima at 644/716 nm (red-absorbing phytochrome [Pr]/far-red-absorbing phytochrome [Pfr]) for the PCB adduct, and 659/724 nm for the P phi B-adduct, the latter in close agreement with values for phytochrome extracted from Ceratodon itself, implying that P phi B is the native chromophore in this moss species. Immunoblots stained with the antiphytochrome antibody APC1 showed that the recombinant phytochrome had the same molecular size as phytochrome from Ceratodon extracts. Further, the mobility of recombinant CP2 holophytochrome on native size-exclusion chromatography was similar to that of native oat phytochrome, implying that CP2 forms a dimer. Kinetics of absorbance changes during the Pr-->Pfr photoconversion of the PCB adduct, monitored between 620 and 740 nm in the microsecond range, revealed the rapid formation of a red-shifted intermediate (I700), decaying with a time constant of approximately 110 microseconds. This is similar to the behavior of phytochromes from higher plants when assembled with the same chromophore. When following the formation of the Pfr state, two major processes were identified (with time constants of 3 and 18 ms) that are followed by slow reactions in the range of 166 ms and 8 s, respectively, albeit with very small amplitudes.
To elucidate the mechanisms by which alpha-amylase genes are expressed in wild oat aleurone, two genes, alpha-Amy2/A and alpha-Amy2/D, were isolated. Both were shown to be positively regulated by gibberellin (GA) during germination and both contain the conserved cis-acting elements Box 2, GA-response element (TAACAGA) and TATCSATSS (where S is C or G). In addition, they possess a conserved initiator element (CATCA) that is present in both alpha-Amy2 and alpha-Amy1 genes, and also in a number of other plant TATA-containing and TATA-less promoters. DNase 1 footprint analysis showed the alpha-Amy2/A promoter to be a complex array of binding sites for a number of different classes of DNA-binding proteins. Our data suggest that the area around the initiator element (Inr) is bound by a large complex of general transcription factors, that the TATA box is bound by the TFIID complex, that Box 2 is bound by one or more WRKY proteins and that the GA-response element is bound by one or more MYBs. Two other elements containing the core sequence CCATGG/C are bound by nuclear protein and this sequence is the core of the Sph element. The regulation of alpha-Amy2 genes by GA therefore involves an interplay of at least three different types of transcription factor.
We recently reported that formation of allopolyploid wheat was accompanied by rapid nonrandom changes in low-copy noncoding DNA sequences. In this report we show that following allopolyploidization, changes also occurred in coding sequences. Genomic DNA of nine different newly synthesized amphiploids of different ploidy levels and their parental lines was digested with five restriction enzymes and probed with 43 coding sequences. The sequences, 19 genomic and 24 cDNA sequences, are group (homoelogous) specific and represent the proximal and distal regions of the short and long arms of the seven homoeologous groups of the Triticeae. We revealed three types of changes: disappearance of a parental hybridization fragment(s), appearance of a novel fragment(s), and simultaneous disappearance of a parental fragment(s) and appearance of a novel fragment(s). No elimination of sequences took place, since in every sequence studied the parental hybridization fragments were present in at least one of the enzyme digests. Variations in pattern among individual plants of the same amphiploid, as well as a between several synthetic and natural amphiploids, indicated that at least some of the genomic changes occurred at random. Intergenomic recombination was not the cause of the observed changes. Evidence was obtained, however, that changes were also brought about by DNA methylation. Methylation may cause inactivation of genes or modify their expression levels in some of the newly synthesized amphiploid plants, leading to genetic diploidization and gene-dosage compensation and thus increasing variation among individuals.
Aeromonas caviae W-61 produces five species of xylanases, xylanases 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 [Nguyen, V.D. et al., Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem., 56, 1708-1712 (1993) and Appl. Environ. Microbiol., 57, 445-449 (1991)]. While preserving a purified xylanase 3 preparation from A. caviae in solution at 4 degrees C, the xylanase 3 was found to be proteolyzed to give a truncated form with a smaller molecular mass than that of the intact one. It appears likely that the truncated form of xylanase 3 was produced in this particular purification experiment by the action of a contaminating protease. We isolated the truncated form of xylanase 3 (Xyn3tr), of which the C-terminal 102-residue segment is missing. By the chemical analysis of the N- and C-terminal amino acid residues of Xyn3tr and the DNA sequencing analysis of the xylanase 3 gene (xyn3), the N-terminal 398th proline residue of xylanase 3 was found to be the C-terminus of Xyn3tr. Xyn3tr had the activity to form xylotriose (X3), xylotetraose (X4), xylopentaose (X5), and xylohexaose (X6) as main final products from oat spelt xylan. In contrast, intact xylanase 3 released X6 and higher xylo-oligosaccharides as main products. Xylanase 3 hydrolysed X4 through X6. However, Xyn3tr had no activity towards X4 and X5. The recombinant Xyn3tr and recombinant xylanase 3 (XYN3) were purified homogeneously from the periplasmic space of E. coli harboring the plasmids pXYN3 and pXYN3tr, which include xyn3 and xyn3tr genes, respectively, and their enzymatic activities were measured. The cleavage patterns of oat spelt and xylo-oligosaccharides by XYN3tr were identical with that by intact Xyn3tr. Thus, we conclude that the C-terminal region comprising a 102-residue segment in xylanase 3 is involved in governing the molecular size of xylo-oligosaccharides cleaved from beta-1,4-xylan by the enzyme and in the hydrolytic activity towards X4 and X5.
Regions of the sugarcane bacilliform badnavirus genome were tested for promoter activity. The genomic region spanning nucleotides 5999-7420 was shown to possess promoter activity as exemplified by its ability to drive the expression of the coding region of the uidA gene of Escherichia coli, in both Avena sativa and Arabidopsis thaliana. In A. sativa, the promoter was active in all organs examined and, with the exception of the anthers where the expression was localized, this activity was constitutive. In A. thaliana, the promoter activity was constitutive in the rosette leaf, stem, stamen, and root and limited primarily to vascular tissue in the sepal and the silique. The transgene was inherited and active in progeny plants of both A. sativa and A. thaliana.
An irregular pattern of transgene silencing was revealed in expression and inheritance studies conducted over multiple generations following transgene introduction by microprojectile bombardment of allohexaploid cultivated oat (Avena sativa L.). Expression of two transgenes, bar and uidA, delivered on the same plasmid was investigated in 23 transgenic oat lines. Twenty-one transgenic lines, each derived from an independently selected transformed tissue culture, showed expression of both bar and uidA while two lines expressed only bar. The relationship of the transgenic phenotypes to the presence of the transgenes in the study was determined using (1) phenotypic scoring combined with Southern blot analyses of progeny, (2) coexpression of the two transgenic phenotypes since the two transgenes always cosegregated, and (3) reactivation of a transgenic phenotype in self-pollinated progenies of transgenic plants that did not exhibit a transgenic phenotype. Transgene silencing was observed in 19 of the 23 transgenic lines and resulted in distorted segregation of transgenic phenotypes in 10 lines. Silencing and inheritance distortions were irregular and unpredictable. They were often reversible in a subsequent generation of self-pollinated progeny and abnormally segregating progenies were as likely to trace back to parents that exhibited normal segregation in a previous generation as to parents showing segregation distortions. Possible causes of the irregular patterns of transgene silencing are discussed.
Oat chlorotic stunt virus (OCSV) is a 35 nm icosahedral plant virus comprising of a single capsid protein with a Mr of 48.2 kDa and a 4.1 kb single stranded, positive sense genomic RNA. Northern blot analysis detected a single 3' terminal subgenomic RNA in extracts from infected plants, which was also found to be encapsidated. Virion RNA directs the synthesis of a 23 kDa polypeptide in a rabbit reticulocyte in vitro translation system. Primer extension analysis has been used to map the end of both the genomic and subgenomic RNA's, and has shown the genomic size to be 4115 nucleotides in length. The results have enabled a model for the genome expression to be proposed.
Dichloroacetamide safeners protect maize (Zea mays L.) against injury from chloroacetanilide and thiocarbamate herbicides. Etiolated maize seedlings have a high-affinity cytosolic-binding site for the safener [3H](R,S)-3-dichloroacetyl-2,2,5-trimethyl-1, 3-oxazol-idine ([3H]Saf), and this safener-binding activity (SafBA) is competitively inhibited by the herbicides. The safener-binding protein (SafBP), purified to homogeneity, has a relative molecular weight of 39,000, as shown by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and an isoelectric point of 5.5. Antiserum raised against purified SafBP specifically recognizes a 39-kD protein in etiolated maize and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.), which have SafBA, but not in etiolated wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), oat (Avena sativa L.), barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.), or Arabidopsis, which lack SafBA. SafBP is most abundant in the coleoptile and scarcest in the leaves, consistent with the distribution of SafBA. SBP1, a cDNA encoding SafBP, was cloned using polymerase chain reaction primers based on purified proteolytic peptides. Extracts of Escherichia coli cells expressing SBP1 have strong [3H]Saf binding, which, like binding to the native maize protein, is competitively inhibited by the safener dichlormid and the herbicides S-ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate, alachlor, and metolachlor. SBP1 is predicted to encode a phenolic O-methyltransferase, but SafBP does not O-methylate catechol or caffeic acid. The acquisition of its encoding gene opens experimental approaches for the evaluation of the role of SafBP in response to the relevant safeners and herbicides.
Steryl glucosides are characteristic lipids of plant membranes. The biosynthesis of these lipids is catalyzed by the membrane-bound UDP-glucose:sterol glucosyltransferase (EC 2.4.1.173). The purified enzyme (Warnecke and Heinz, Plant Physiol 105 (1994): 1067-1073) has been used for the cloning of a corresponding cDNA from oat (Avena sativa L.). Amino acid sequences derived from the amino terminus of the purified protein and from peptides of a trypsin digestion were used to construct oligonucleotide primers for polymerase chain reaction experiments. Screening of oat and Arabidopsis cDNA libraries with amplified labeled DNA fragments resulted in the isolation of sterol glucosyltransferase-specific cDNAs with insert lengths of ca. 2.3 kb for both plants. These cDNAs encode polypeptides of 608 (oat) and 637 (Arabidopsis) amino acid residues with molecular masses of 66 kDa and 69 kDa, respectively. The first amino acid of the purified oat protein corresponds to the amino acid 133 of the deduced polypeptide. The absence of these N-terminal amino acids reduces the molecular mass to 52 kDa, which is similar to the apparent molecular mass of 56 kDa determined for the purified protein. Different fragments of these cDNAs were expressed in Escherichia coli. Enzyme assays with homogenates of the transformed cells exhibited sterol glucosyltransferase activity.
Here, we examine the cis-elements and trans-factors affecting the expression of asparagine synthetase (AS) genes whose transcription is negatively regulated by light. The promoters for the AS1 and AS2 genes of pea were isolated, sequenced, and functionally dissected for their ability to confer regulated expression to the GUS reporter gene in transgenic tobacco. Histochemical analysis of transgenic plants demonstrated that the AS1 and AS2 promoters show identical patterns of cell-specific expression. The more highly active AS1 promoter was further demonstrated to confer negative light-regulation to the GUS gene in transgenic tobacco. Deletion analysis and gain-of-function experiments showed that 124 bp of the AS1 promoter was sufficient to confer light-activated repression to a heterologous promoter. Potential conserved transcription regulatory elements, Box B, Box C, and Box C' within this region were shown to bind to nuclear proteins by gel shift analysis. A light-specific DNA:protein interaction was detected with Box B. The nuclear factors that bind to Box C and C' elements of AS1 are competed by a putative repressor element 'RE1' defined previously in the oat phytochrome gene whose transcription is also repressed by light. The Box B and C/C'-Box/RE1-binding factors were found in nuclear extracts of tobacco, pea, and Arabidopsis and may therefore be universal factors involved in light-activated transcriptional repression.
In higher plants, environmental cues such as light signals are integrated with circadian clock signals to control precisely the daily rhythms observed for many biological functions. We have used a fusion of the promoter of a chlorophyll a/b binding protein gene, CAB2, with firefly luciferase (cab2::luc) to monitor the detailed kinetics of transcription in response to photoreceptor activation in Arabidopsis. Using this marker in phototransduction and circadian-dysfunctional mutants, we studied how signals from phytochrome and the circadian clock are integrated for the regulation of CAB2 transcription. Results from these mutant studies demonstrate that similar expression features, namely, the acute and circadian responses, are present in both etiolated and green seedlings and that the acute and circadian responses are genetically separable. We also demonstrate that persistent Pfr signaling occurs in red light-pulsed etiolated seedlings, which suggests that the circadian clock antagonizes Pfr-mediated signal transduction. Based on these genetic studies, we propose a model for the regulation of CAB2 transcription in which individual photoreceptors and phototransduction components have been assigned to specific pathways for the regulation of discrete kinetic components of the CAB2 expression pattern.
The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA from 22 diploid and tetraploid annual Bromus species of section Bromus (Poaceae) and three species belonging to other Bromus sections, Bromus catharticus (section Ceratochloa), Bromus anomalus (section Pnigma), and Bromus sterilis (section Genea), were investigated by PCR amplification and direct sequencing. The length of the ITS-1 region varied from 215 to 218 bp, and that of the ITS-2 region from 215 to 216 bp, in the species analyzed. ITS-1 was more variable and provided more informative sites (49) than ITS-2 (32). No variation was encountered within species. In pairwise comparison among species of section Bromus, sequence divergence ranged from 0.0 to 8.0% for the combined ITS-1 and ITS-2 regions. Parsimony analysis using Avena longiglumis and Hordeum vulgare as outgroups resulted in well-resolved phylogenetic trees and showed that section Bromus is monophyletic according to the species analyzed outside of the section. The analysis clarified the phylogenetic relationships among monogenomic (diploid) species. Introduction of the allotetraploid species did not change the general topology of the trees obtained using only the diploid species. Although some tetraploid-diploid species relationships will have to be clarified with faster evolving markers, the ITS sequences are shown to be useful for assessing evolutionary relationships among closely related Bromus species, as well as for clarifying taxonomic problems in previously controversial cases (e.g., Bromus alopecuros and Bromus caroli-henrici). New hypotheses are proposed concerning the origin of several allotetraploid species. For example, it is shown that the tetraploid Bromus hordeaceus diverged earlier than all other species of section Bromus, excluding the diploid B. caroli-henrici, which is found to be basal in this group. The tetraploid Bromus arenarius, which was considered a hybrid between sections Bromus and Genea, and the tetraploid Bromus adoensis are sister taxa within section Bromus; they belong in a weakly differentiated clade with the diploids Bromus brachystachys, Bromus japonicus, Bromus squarrosus, Bromus arvensis, and Bromus intermedius.
The activity of arginine decarboxylase (ADC), a key enzyme in plant polyamine biosynthesis, was manipulated in two generations of transgenic tobacco plants. Second-generation transgenic plants overexpressing an oat ADC cDNA contained high levels of oat ADC transcript relative to tobacco ADC, possessed elevated ADC enzyme activity and accumulated 10-20-fold more agmatine, the direct product of ADC. In the presence of high levels of the precursor agmatine, no increase in the levels of the polyamines putrescine, spermidine and spermine was detected in the transgenic plants. Similarly, the activities of ornithine decarboxylase and S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase were unchanged. No diversion of polyamine metabolism into the hydroxycinnamic acid-polyamine conjugate pool or into the tobacco alkaloid nicotine was detected. Activity of the catabolic enzyme diamine oxidase was the same in transgenic and control plants. The elevated ADC activity and agmatine production were subjected to a metabolic/physical block preventing increased, i.e. deregulated, polyamine accumulation. Overaccumulation of agmatine in the transgenic plants did not affect morphological development.
The complete nucleotide sequence and genome organization of oat blue dwarf marafivirus (OBDV) were determined. The 6509 nucleotide RNA genome encodes a putative 227-kDa polyprotein (p227) with sequence motifs similar to the methyltransferase, papain-like protease, helicase, and polymerase motifs present in the nonstructural proteins of other positive strand RNA viruses. The 3' end of the open reading frame (ORF) that encodes p227 (ORF 227) also encodes the two capsid proteins: a 24-kDa capsid protein is presumably cleaved from the p227 polyprotein, whereas the 21-kDa capsid protein appears to be translated from a subgenomic RNA (sgRNA). Encoded amino acid and nucleotide sequence comparisons, as well as the OBDV genome expression strategy, show that OBDV closely resembles the tymoviruses. OBDV differs from the tymoviruses in its general biology, in its lack of a putative movement gene that overlaps the replication-associated genes, and in its fusion of the capsid gene sequences to the major ORF. OBDV also possesses a 3' poly(A) tail, as compared to the tRNA-like structures found in most tymoviral genomes. Due to the strong similarities in genome sequence and expression strategy, OBDV, and presumably the other marafiviruses, should be considered a member of the tymovirus lineage of the alpha-like plant viruses.
The cDNAs encoding full-length type A and B phytochromes (phyA and phyB, respectively) from potato were expressed in inducible yeast systems (Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Pichia pastoris). In addition, a deletion mutant of phyB (delta 1-74) was expressed. The apoproteins were reconstituted into chromoproteins by incorporation of the native chromophore, phytochromobilin (P phi B), and of phycocyanobilin (PCB). The incorporation of P phi B yielded chromoproteins with difference absorptions lambda max at 660 and 712 nm (Pr and Pfr, respectively) for phyA, and at 665 and 723 nm for phyB. All difference maxima of PCB phytochromes are blue-shifted by several nanometers with respect to those obtained with the P phi B chromophore. The deletion construct with PCB shows difference absorption maxima at 652 and 705 nm with the Pfr absorbance considerably reduced. Time-resolved kinetic analysis of a phyB-type phytochrome by nanosecond flash photolysis was performed for the first time. Recombinant full-length phyB afforded transient absorbance changes similar (but not identical) to those of phyA from Avena, whereas the kinetic behavior of these intermediates was very different. Contrary to phyA from Avena, the I700 intermediate from phyB reconstituted with either PCB or P phi B decayed following single exponential kinetics with a lifetime of 87 or 84 microseconds, respectively, at 10 degrees C. The formation of Pfr of PCB-containing recombinant phyB (phyB-PCB) could be fitted with three lifetimes of 9, 127, and 728 ms. The corresponding lifetimes of phyB-P phi B are 22.5, 343, and 2083 ms. Whereas for phyB-PCB all three millisecond lifetimes are related to the formation of Pfr, the 2 s component of phyB-P phi B is concomitant with a rapid recovery of Pr. For recombinant potato phyA and delta 1-74 phyB, no time-resolved data could be obtained due to the limited quantities available. As described for phytochromes of other dicotelydons, the Pfr forms of full-length phyA and PhyB of potato underwent rapid dark conversion to Pr.
Many viruses use stop codon readthrough as a strategy to produce extended coat or replicase proteins. The stop codon of the barley yellow dwarf virus (PAV serotype) coat protein gene is read through at a low rate. This produces an extended polypeptide which becomes part of the virion. We have analyzed the cis-acting sequences in the barley yellow dwarf virus PAV genome required for this programmed readthrough in vitro in wheat germ extracts and reticulocyte lysates and in vivo in oat protoplasts. Two regions 3' to the stop codon were required. Deletion of sections containing the first 5 of the 16 CCN NNN repeats located 3' of the stop codon greatly reduced readthrough in vitro and in vivo. Surprisingly, readthrough also required a second, more distal element that is located 697 to 758 bases 3' of the stop codon within the readthrough open reading frame. This element also functioned in vivo in oat protoplasts when placed more than 2 kb from the coat protein gene stop in the untranslated region following a GUS reporter gene. This is the first report of a long-range readthrough signal in viruses.
Four cDNA clones (corresponding to tlp-1, -2, -3, and -4 genes) encoding thaumatin-like (TL), pathogenesis-related proteins were isolated from oat (Avena sativa) infected by an incompatible isolate Pga-1H of the oat stem rust fungus (Puccinia graminis f. sp. avenae). All four cDNA clones contained an open reading frame predicted to encode a 169-amino acid polypeptide with a signal peptide of 21 amino acids at the N-terminus, suggesting that these proteins are transported through a secretory pathway. The amino acid sequences revealed high homology among the four cDNA clones, 80 to 99% identity and 86 to 100% similarity. The tlp genes and several TL protein genes of certain cereals are clustered into a small group that is phylogenetically separate from the major group of TL protein genes of several plant species. In plants infected with the incompatible isolate Pga-1H, or an inappropriate isolate Pgt-8D of P. graminis f. sp. tritici, high levels of tlp gene transcripts accumulated at 42 to 48 h AI and thereafter when hypersensitive host cell death occurred and hyphal growth was inhibited, whereas in plants infected with a compatible isolate Pga-6A, relatively lower amounts of transcripts were detected. Overall, transcript levels were higher with tlp-1 than with the three other genes. Spray with a light mineral oil used as a spore carrier induced transient expression of tlp-1, -2, and -3 genes at 16 to 30 h AI which obscured the initial induction of the tlp genes in response to infection by the pathogens. In contrast, tlp-4 was induced very little by oil spray, so that induction was clearly observed in response to either compatible, incompatible, or inappropriate isolates at 24 to 30 h AI. Wounding leaves by either slicing or puncturing them strongly induced tlp-1 and tlp-3, moderately induced tlp-2, but had no effect on tlp-4. Taken together, the results showed that tlp genes displayed differential responses to oil spray, mechanical wounding, and pathogen infection and that the expression of tlp genes, especially tlp-1, in oat is associated with resistance reactions in response to infection by incompatible and inappropriate isolates of the stem rust fungi.
In cereals, interspecific and intergeneric hybridizations (wide crosses) which yield karyotypically stable hybrid plants have been used as starting points to widen the genetic base of a crop and to construct stocks for genetic analysis. Also, uniparental genome elimination in karyotypically unstable hybrids has been utilized for cereal haploid production. We have crossed hexaploid oat (2n=6x=42, Avena sativa L.) and maize (2n=2x=20, Zea mays L.) and recovered 90 progenies through embryo rescue. Fifty-two plants (58%) produced from oatxmaize hybridization were oat haploids (2n=3x=21) following maize chromosome elimination. Twenty-eight plants (31%) were found to be stable partial hybrids with 1-4 maize chromosomes in addition to a haploid set of 21 oat chromosomes (2n=21+1 to 2n=21+4). Ten of the ninety plants produced were found to be apparent chromosomal chimeras, where some tissues in a given plant contained maize chromosomes while other tissues did not, or else different tissues contained a different number of maize chromosomes. DNA restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) were used to identify the maize chromosome(s) present in the various oat-maize progenies. Maize chromosomes 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 were detected in partial hybrids and chromosomal chimeras. Maize chromosomes 1 and 10 were not detected in the plants analyzed to-date. Furthermore, partial self-fertility, which is common in oat haploids, was also observed in some oat-maize hybrids. Upon selfing, partial hybrids with one or two maize chromosomes showed nearly complete transmission of the maize chromosome to give self-fertile maize-chromosome-addition oat plants. Fertile lines were recovered that contained an added maize chromosome or chromosome pair representing six of the ten maize chromosomes. Four independently derived disomic maize chromosome addition lines contained chromosome 4, one line carried chromosome 7, two lines had chromosome 9, one had chromosome 2, and one had chromosome 3. One maize chromosome-8 monosomic addition line was also identified. We also identified a double disomic addition line containing both maize chromosomes 4 and 7. This constitutes the first report of the production of karyotypically stable partial hybrids involving highly unrelated species from two subfamilies of the Gramineae (Pooideae - oat, and Panicoideae - maize) and the subsequent recovery of fertile oat-maize chromosome addition lines. These represent novel material for gene/ marker mapping, maize chromosome manipulation, the study of maize gene expression in oat, and the transfer of maize DNA, genes, or active transposons to oat.
To investigate whether the afterripening-induced changes in gene expression are at the transcriptional or posttranscriptional level in wild oat (Avena fatua) seeds, we chose four dormancy-associated genes to estimate their relative transcription activities and the stability of their corresponding transcripts in afterripened and dormant embryos. The transcription activities for those genes were 1.5 to 7 times higher in dormant embryos than in afterripened embryos 24 h after incubation, as determined by nuclear run-on assays. The half-lives of the transcripts in afterripened and dormant embryos were estimated by the use of actinomycin D. The application of actinomycin D resulted in the stabilization of the transcripts. Nevertheless, the results indicated that the half-lives of the transcripts were much greater in dormant embryos than in afterripened embryos. Considering the great differences in the steady-state levels and the half-lives of the mRNAs, and the relatively small differences in transcription activities of the genes between afterripened and dormant embryos, we conclude that afterripening regulates the expression of dormancy-associated genes in excised embryos mainly at the posttranscriptional level and that transcriptional control plays a minor role.
To analyze the patterns of gene expression associated with seed dormancy in wild oat (Avena fatua), we have isolated cDNA clones corresponding to genes that are differentially expressed in dormant and afterripened line M73 embryos. Gene transcripts of these clones were maintained in embryos of imbibed dormant caryopses, but declined rapidly in afterripened embryos after imbibition. GA3 treatment of dormant caryopses, which breaks dormancy, could lower the transcript levels in dormant embryos. When the germination of afterripened caryopses was inhibited by high temperature (35 degrees C), the decline in abundance of the transcripts in afterripened embryos was arrested. These genes were expressed to various degrees in water-stressed, but not in unstressed, 7-day-old seedlings. The expression of the genes was also ABA-inducible in afterripened embryos. The expression patterns in non-dormant line SH430 wild oat were similar to those of afterripened M73. DNA sequence analyses indicated that some of the cDNA clones encode LEA (late embryogenesis-abundant) proteins and aldose reductase. The significance of the expression of these genes in maintaining seed dormancy or longevity is discussed.
Gene-preferential oligonucleotide probes were used to determined the relative abundance and half-lives of distinct oat phytochrome A (PHYA) mRNAs. Oat PHYA mRNAs are highly conserved in the 5'-untranslated region and the coding region, but the 3'-untranslated region has an overall lower sequence conservation and was the source of gene-preferential probes. PHYA3 mRNA was estimated to be ca. 61% of the oat PHYA mRNA pool present in poly(A)+ RNA from dark-grown seedlings. The half-lives for PHYA3 and PHYA4 mRNAs were both estimated to be ca. 30 min, and a similar short half-life was estimated for the average PHYA mRNA. Sequence comparisons of PHYA mRNAs from four grass species identified conserved sequences within the 5'- and 3'-untranslated regions that might be important for PHYA mRNA degradation.
Deletion and point mutation analyses were employed to determine gene products and cis-acting signals involved in translation, replication, and encapsidation of barley yellow dwarf virus (PAV serotype) RNA in oat protoplasts. Of the six open reading frames (ORFs), only ORFs 1 and 2, which include the putative RNA-dependent RNA polymerase gene, were required for replication. In vitro translation of these mutants revealed that sequence upstream of the shifty heptanucleotide was required for ribosomal frameshifting, and that a 3'-translational enhancer stimulated translation more efficiently when located in closer proximity to the translated ORFs. Deletion of the coat protein gene reduced the accumulation of genomic but not subgenomic RNA. The carboxy-terminally extended form of the coat protein, produced by readthrough of its stop codon, was not required for encapsidation. Although the ORF6 product was not necessary, cis-acting RNA signals in and around ORF6 were required for RNA replication. Defective RNAs harboring various deletions were not replicated in trans by the co-inoculated wild-type helper genome, suggesting that replication of PAV RNA may be coupled to translation.
The molecular regulation of seed dormancy was investigated using differential display to visualize and isolate cDNAs representing differentially expressed genes during early imbibition of dormant and nondormant Avena fatua L. embryos. Of about 3000 cDNA bands examined, 5 cDNAs hybridized with mRNAs exhibiting dormancy-associated expression patterns during the first 48 h of inhibition, while many more nondormancy-associated cDNAs were observed. Dormancy-associated clone AFD1 hybridized with a 1.5 kb mRNA barely detectable in dry dormant and nondormant embryos that became more abundant in dormant embryos after 24 h of imbibition. Clone AFD2 hybridized with two mRNAs, a 1.3 kb message constitutively expressed in dormant and nondormant embryos and a 0.9 kb message present at higher levels in dormant embryos after 3 h of imbibition. Nondormancy-associated clones AFN1, AFN2 and AFN3 hybridized with 1.5 kb, 1.7 kb and 1.1 kb mRNAs, respectively, that were more abundant in nondormant embryos during imbibition. Expression patterns of some mRNAs in dormant embryos induced to germinate by GA3 treatment were different than water controls, but were not identical to those observed in nondormant embryos. DNA sequence analysis revealed 76% sequence identity between clone AFN3 and a Citrus sinensis glutathione peroxidase-like cDNA, while significant sequence similarities with known genes were not found for other clones. Southern hybridization analyses showed that all clones represent low (1 to 4) copy number genes.
cDNA fragments from ten different protein kinases expressed in Avena sativa aleurone cells were amplified from mRNA by RT-PCR with degenerate primers. These could be classified into five groups: Aspk1-3 showed homology to the Snf1-related protein kinases, Aspk4-5 to a wheat ABA up-regulated protein kinase, Aspk6-8 to the Ca-dependent, calmodulin-independent protein kinase family, Aspk9 encoded a MAP kinase and Aspk10 was closely related to a novel Arabidopsis ribosomal protein kinase. GA caused a rapid increase in transcripts hybridising to Aspk10, while inhibiting the dramatic accumulation of transcripts hybridising to Aspk9 that occurred in the absence of GA.
Purified particles of barley yellow dwarf luteovirus (BYDV) contain a major 22-kDa protein and a minor protein of approximately 58 kDa. The 22-kDa capsid protein is encoded by open reading frame (ORF) 3. ORF 5 is immediately downstream and in frame with ORF 3 and a 72-kDa protein can be translated via a readthrough suppression of the ORF 3 termination codon. Antibodies were produced against two Escherichia coli expressed polypeptides that represent the amino- and carboxyl-terminal halves of a putative 50-kDa protein encoded by ORF 5. Immunological analyses indicated that the 58-kDa protein associated with purified virions contained sequences encoded by ORF 3 and ORF 5. The carboxyl terminal portion of the full-length (72 kDa) readthrough protein was absent from the 58-kDa protein. The full-length readthrough protein was detected in infected oat protoplasts and plant tissue, but was not associated with virus particles purified from plants. The carboxyl-terminal portion of the 72-kDa readthrough protein was not required for aphid transmission; however, virus was transmitted more efficiently from protoplast extracts containing virions and soluble 72-kDa readthrough protein than from mock-inoculated protoplast extracts to which plant purified virus was added. The full-length readthrough protein, although not required for transmission, may increase the transmission efficiency of BYDV by aphids.
The fusicoccin binding protein (FCBP) is a highly conserved plasma membrane protein present in all higher plants tested thus far. It exhibits high- and low-affinity binding for the fungal toxin fusicoccin (FC). We purified the active FCBP from a fraction highly enriched in plasma membrane by selective precipitation and anion exchange chromatography. After SDS-PAGE, the two FCBP subunits of 30 and 31 kD were detected as major bands. Amino acid sequence analysis of the 31-kD polypeptide displayed a high degree of identity with so-called 14-3-3 proteins, a class of mammalian brain proteins initially described as regulators of neurotransmitter synthesis and protein kinase C inhibitors. Thereafter, we affinity purified the 30- and 31-kD FCBP subunits, using biotinylated FC in combination with a monomeric avidin column. Immunodecoration of these 30- and 31-kD FCBP subunits with polyclonal antibodies raised against a 14-3-3 homolog from yeast confirmed the identity of the FCBP as a 14-3-3 homolog. Similar to all 14-3-3 protein homologs, the FCBP seems to exist as a dimer in native form. Thus far, the FCBP is the only 14-3-3 homolog with a receptor-like function. The conserved structure of the 14-3-3 protein family is a further indication that the FCBP plays an important role in the physiology of higher plants.
We studied the expression of the oat globulin gene asglo5 in developing transgenic tobacco seeds. The asglo5 gene promoter directed transcription in the endosperm as well as in the provascular tissue, the presumptive root tip and the shoot apical meristem of the embryo as revealed by GUS reporter gene constructs and in situ hybridization. However, immunological tissue printing detected the oat protein exclusively in the tobacco endosperm, suggesting that extensive post-transcriptional regulatory processes influence the expression of the monocot transgene in the dicot host.
The fungus Cochliobolus victoriae, the causal agent of victoria blight of oats, produces the host-specific toxin victorin. Sensitivity of oats to victorin, and thus susceptibility to the fungus, is controlled by a single dominant gene. This gene is believed to also confer resistance to the crown rust pathogen Puccinia coronata. In the case of victoria blight, the gene has been hypothesized to condition susceptibility by encoding a toxin receptor. A 100-kD victorin binding protein (VBP) has been identified; it binds radiolabeled victorin derivatives in a ligand-specific manner and in a genotype-specific manner in vivo. The VBP may function as a toxin receptor. In vitro translation coupled with indirect immunoprecipitation was used to identify the mRNA for the 100-kD VBP, and fractionated mRNAs were used to prepare cDNA libraries enriched in the relative abundance of cDNA for the 100-kD VBP. A 3.4-kb cDNA clone was isolated that, when subjected to a 400-bp 5' deletion, was capable of directing the synthesis of a protein in Escherichia coli, which reacted to an antibody specific for the 100-kD VBP. Peptide mapping, by limited proteolysis, indicated that the protein directed by the cDNA is the 100-kD VBP. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the cDNA revealed extensive homology to a previously cloned cDNA for the P protein component of the multienzyme complex glycine decarboxylase. Glycine decarboxylase is a nuclear-encoded, mitochondrial enzyme complex. Protein gel blot analysis indicated that the 100-kD VBP copurifies with mitochondria. Based on analysis of in vitro translation products, nucleotide sequence homology, mitochondrial localization, and the widespread species distribution of the 100-kD VBP, we concluded that the 100-kD VBP is the P protein component of glycine decarboxylase.
Phytochrome DNAs from oat (Avena sativa L.) encoding the full-length 124-kDa polypeptide, a 118-kDa fragment lacking the first 65 amino acids, and two N-terminal fragments of 65 kDa and 45 kDa were subcloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. Reducing the temperature to 25 degrees C during cell growth and the coexpression of chaperones improved the folding into a functional conformation for most of the polypeptides, and in one case the yield of polypeptides was also enhanced. A maximum yield of reconstitutable apoprotein was obtained by expressing the 65-kDa fragment consisting of 595 amino acids. The apoproteins could be assembled in the dark with phycocyanobilin into photoreversible chromoproteins. The yield of photoreversible pigment could be further increased by far-red/red irradiation cycles, indicating that the presence of the chromophore promotes the correct folding of the binding site. The chromoproteins with an intact N-terminal domain exhibit Pr and Pfr absorption bands, which are blue-shifted relative to the corresponding bands of native phytochrome due to the particular phycocyanobilin structure. The 118-kDa fragment, only lacking the 6-kDa N-terminus, exhibits a strong Pr band, but only a weak Pfr absorbance. This indicates an essential role of the front 6-kDa region of the protein in the formation of the far-red absorbing chromophore-protein complex. Otherwise, the C-terminal region seems to be less important for photoreversibility as indicated by the function of the shorter fragments.
In monocotyledons, the expression of the oat phytochrome A gene (PHYA) is down-regulated by phytochrome itself. This autoregulatory repression is the most rapid light-induced effect on gene expression reported in plants to date. A functional analysis of the oat PHYA3 gene minimal promoter in a rice transient expression assay has identified two promoter elements, PE1 and PE3, that interact synergistically in positive regulation. We have isolated an oat cDNA clone (pO2) that encodes a DNA-binding protein that binds to the PE1 region of the oat PHYA3 gene promoter. The in vitro binding properties of the pO2-encoded protein, towards DNA probes containing either the PE1 sequence or linker-substitution mutations in PE1, correlate with the activity of these DNA elements in the rice transient expression assay. These mutations are known to abolish expression of a reporter gene in vivo. Binding of these linker-substitution mutants to the pO2-encoded protein in vitro was lower by one to two orders of magnitude than the binding of the native PE1 region. We suggest, therefore, that the pO2 clone may encode the putative nuclear factor, oat PF1, that is involved in positive regulation of PHYA3 by binding to PE1 in vivo. pO2 encodes a 170-amino-acid-long protein that contains three repeats of the 'AT-hook' DNA-binding motif found in high mobility group I-Y (HMGI-Y) proteins. Oat PF1 is highly similar to rice PF1 and to the protein encoded by soybean cDNA SB16. They all have a strong similarity in their N-terminus to the pea H1 histone, and the presence of several AT-hook DNA-binding motifs in their C-terminal halves.
An asymmetric (top vs. bottom) increase in invertase activity is elicited by gravistimulation in oat-shoot pulvini starting within 3 h after treatment. In order to analyze the regulation of invertase gene expression in this system, we examined the effect of gravistimulation on invertase mRNA induction. Total RNA and poly (A)+RNA, isolated from oat pulvini, and two oligonucleotide primers, corresponding to two conserved amino-acid sequences (NDPNG and WECPD) found in invertase from other species, were used for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). A partial-length cDNA (550 base pairs) was obtained and characterized. There was a 52% deduced amino-acid sequence homology to that of carrot beta-fructosidase and a 48% homology to that of tomato invertase. Northern blot analysis showed that there was an obvious transient accumulation of invertase mRNA elicited by gravistimulation of oat pulvini. The mRNA was rapidly induced to a maximum level at 1 h following gravistimulation treatment and gradually decreased afterwards. The mRNA level in the bottom half of the oat pulvinus was significantly higher (five-fold) than that in the top half of the pulvinus tissue. The induction of invertase mRNA was consistent with the transient enhancement of invertase activity during the graviresponse of the pulvinus. These data indicate that the expression of the invertase gene(s) could be regulated by gravistimulation at the transcriptional and/or translational levels. Southern blot analysis showed that there were four genomic DNA fragments hybridized to the invertase cDNA. This suggests that an invertase gene family may exist in oat plants.
Protoplasts derived from oat (Avena sativa L.) suspension culture cells (7 days after subculturing) were electroporated with plasmid DNA containing the Escherichia coli uidA gene encoding the ß-glucuronidase reporter enzyme. Consistently high enzyme activity was observed with electroporation conditions of 500 μF and 1125 volts/cm. Enzyme activity and mRNA accumulation time courses were determined. The maximum enzyme activity was detected at 24 hours after electroporation, while the maximum mRNA level was detected at 12 hours after electroporation. ß-glucuronidase mRNA was in vitro synthesized with and without a 5' methylated cap and then electroporated into protoplasts. Only capped mRNA produced significant enzyme activity. By electroporating radiolabeled, in vitro synthesized mRNA, the ß-glucuronidase mRNA half-life was estimated to be ∼35 minutes in oat protoplasts.
A lambda gt 11 cDNA library, constructed from poly(A)+ mRNA isolated from Avena fatua aleurone layers incubated with 1 microM gibberellin A1 (GA1) for 4 days, was screened with an anti-idiotypic antiserum raised against the GA-specific monoclonal antibody MAC 182. One positive clone was isolated, sequenced and shown to encode a tetraubiquitin based on the deduced amino acid sequence. This polyubiquitin cDNA exhibited a high degree of homology to a cloned wheat hexaubiquitin in its 3'-non-coding region. Analysis of total RNA isolated from A. fatua aleurone layers, treated without or with a range of concentrations of GA1 from 10(-11) to 10(-6) M, by northern blotting using the cDNA probe revealed 8 different ubiquitin-containing transcript classes all of which are constitutively expressed in aleurone and are regulated by GA1.
Pseudomonas syringae pv. coronafaciens, a pathogen of oats, was mutagenized with Tn5 to generate mutants defective in tabtoxin production. From a screen of 3,400 kanamycin-resistant transconjugants, seven independent mutants that do not produce tabtoxin (Tox-) were isolated. Although the Tn5 insertions within these seven mutants were linked, they were not located in the previously described tabtoxin biosynthetic region of P. syringae. Instead, all of the insertions were within the P. syringae pv. coronafaciens lemA gene. The lemA gene is required by strains of P. syringae pv. syringae for pathogenicity on bean plants (Phaseolus vulgaris). In contrast to the phenotype of a P. syringae pv. syringae lemA mutant, the Tox- mutants of P. syringae pv. coronafaciens were still able to produce necrotic lesions on oat plants (Avena sativa), although without the chlorosis associated with tabtoxin production. Northern (RNA) hybridization experiments indicated that a functional lemA gene was required for the detection of a transcript produced from the tblA locus located in the tabtoxin biosynthetic region. Marker exchange mutagenesis of the tblA locus resulted in loss of tabtoxin production. Therefore, both the tblA and lemA genes are required for tabtoxin biosynthesis, and the regulation of tabtoxin production by lemA probably occurs at the transcriptional level.
The plant hormones GA, ABA, and auxin differ from the majority of animal hormones in that they are hydrophobic weak acids. They are soluble in the inter- and intra-cellular environments of plant tissues and their neutral species can cross the plasma membrane by passive diffusion. Auxin transport is mediated by specific uptake and efflux carriers in plasma membranes, and there is some evidence for carrier-mediated uptake of GA and ABA. Because these plant hormones can cross the plasma membrane it is not a prerequisite that receptors for them should be at the protoplast surface. Nevertheless, there is substantial evidence that auxin acts at the plasma membrane, and evidence suggesting that GA may be perceived at the plasma membrane of A. fatua aleurone protoplasts has been reviewed here. It is conceivable that the plant plasma membrane might provide the means to integrate, transduce, and amplify these signals, and that such properties of the plasma membrane, rather than the permeability characteristics of these ligands, may determine the site of perception. Further progress in our understanding of signal transduction pathways that may be involved in the actions of plant hormones is likely to shed light on these questions. It has been proposed that GA receptors involved in cell elongation may be soluble rather than membrane bound. The soluble 50 kDa GA-binding protein observed in aleurone by GA4 photoaffinity labelling may be a good candidate for a soluble GA receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The physiological responses of transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) plants that express high levels of an introduced oat (Avena sativa L.) phytochrome (phyA) gene to various light treatments are compared with those of wild-type (WT) plants. Seeds, etiolated seedlings, and light-grown plants from a homozygous transgenic tobacco line (9A4) constructed by Keller et al. (EMBO J, 8, 1005-1012, 1989) were treated with red (R), far-red (FR), or white light (WL) with or without supplemental FR light, revealing major perturbations of the normal photobiological responses. White light stimulated germination of both WT and transgenic seed, but addition of FR to the WL treatment suppressed germination. In the WT, all fluence rates tested inhibited germination, but in the transgenics, reduction effluence rate partially relieved germination from the FR-mediated inhibition. It is suggested that the higher absolute levels of the FR-absorbing form of phytochrome (Pfr) in the irradiated transgenics, compared to the WT, may be responsible for the reduced FR-mediated inhibition of germination in the former. Hypocotyl extension of dark-grown seedlings of both WT and transgenic lines was inhibited by continuous R or FR irradiation, typical of the high-irradiance response (HIR). After 2 d of de-etiolation in WL, the WT seedlings had lost the FR-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl extension, whereas it was retained in the transgenics. The FR-mediated inhibition of hypocotyl extension in the transgenic seedlings after de-etiolation may reflect the persistence of an, FR-HIR response mediated by the overexpressed oat PhyA phytochrome. Light-grown WT seedlings exhibited typical shade-avoidance responses when treated with WL supplemented with high levels of FR radiation. Internode and petiole extension rates were markedly increased, and the chlorophyll a∶b ratio decreased, in the low-R: FR treatment. The transgenics, however, showed no increases in extension growth under low-R: FR treatments, and at low fluence rates both internode and petiole extension rates were significantly decreased by low R ∶ FR. Interpretation of these data is difficult. The depression of the chlorophyll a∶b ratio by low R ∶ FR was identical in WT and transgenic plants, indicating that not all shade-avoidance responses of light-grown plants were disrupted by the over-expression of the introduced oat phyA gene. The results are discussed in relation to the proposal that different members of the phytochrome family may have different physiological roles.
The molecular mechanism of light signal transduction in plants mediated by the photosensor phytochrome is not well understood. The possibility that phytochrome initiates the signal transduction chain by modulating a G-protein-like receptor is examined in the present work. Etiolated Avena seedlings contain G-proteins as examined in terms of the binding of GTP as well as by cross-reaction with mammalian G-protein antibodies. The binding of GTP was regulated in vivo by red/far-red light. The possible involvement of G-proteins in the phytochrome-mediated signal transduction in etiolated Avena seedlings has been implicated from the study of the light regulated expression of the Cab and phy genes.
Type 1 phytochrome from etiolated oat seedlings was digested with V-8 protease. Microsequencing of a 13 kDa fragment yielded a sequence of 31 amino acids. The fragment starting with the alanine residue at position 427 of the entire phytochrome amino acid sequence revealed a heterogeneity (threonine, alanine and asparagine) at position 10. This demonstrates that the phytochrome type A genes AP3, 4 and 5 are expressed as proteins.
A functional assay for gibberellin (GA) receptors is described based on the induction of α-amylase gene expression in isolated aleurone protoplasts of Avena fatua L. by GA4 immobilised to Sepharose beads. A 17-thiol derivative of GA4, shown to be biologically active with aleurone protoplasts, has been coupled to epoxy-activated Sepharose 6B. This GA4-17-Sepharose induces high levels of α-amylase when incubated with isolated aleurone protoplasts, while cells of the intact aleurone layer do not respond appreciably to the immobilised GA4. In order to eliminate the possibility that GA4 may be released from the Sepharose when incubated with protoplasts, aleurone layers and isolated aleurone protoplasts have been co-incubated, and their responses to GA4, GA4-17-Sepharose and control Sepharose estimated by determining the relative amounts of α-amylase mRNA induced in each tissue. Evidence from these experiments is consistent with the view that GA417-Sepharose induces α-amylase gene expression in aleurone protoplasts by interacting with the protoplast surface. This indicates that GA receptors may be located at, or near, the external face of the aleurone plasma membrane.
Putative protochlorophyllide reductase cDNA clones (252 and 113) were isolated from an etiolated-oat (Avena sativa) cDNA library. These were used to indirectly characterize a further clone, p127, isolated from a lambda-phage gt11 cDNA library. The latter (1.15 kb in length) was sequenced, and the derived amino acid sequence was shown to be remarkably similar to that derived from chemical analysis of a CNBr-cleavage fragment of the purified reductase, p127 codes for more than 95% of the reductase protein.
Gibberellins (GAs) are a class of plant hormones involved in the regulation of plant growth and development. A useful model system for studying GA-action is the aleurone layer of cereal grain. In aleurone, GA induces a considerable increase in the rates of transcription of alpha-amylase genes, and this effect can be inhibited by another plant hormone abscisic acid. We anticipate that perception of GA by aleurone cells involves an interaction between the ligand and specific receptors and that this event leads to the observed stimulation in transcription of alpha-amylase, and probably other, aleurone genes. Hormone binding assays with aleurone have not revealed a candidate receptor, and the only aspect of signal transduction that is becoming understood is the likely interaction between specific trans-acting factors and cis-elements in the GA-regulation of alpha-amylase gene transcription. This paper describes the development of novel ways for identifying GA-receptors in aleurone protoplasts of Avena fatua that are based on the use of affinity and antibody probes in functional in vivo assays for GA-receptors. The implications of our current findings are discussed in relation to models of GA-action in aleurone.
We have isolated genomic clones for three loci encoding the phytochrome polypeptide of Zea mays, and have determined the entire sequence of one of them (phyA1) together with approximately 1 kb of 5' flanking DNA. The structure of this gene is highly conserved in comparison with other phytochrome-encoding genes (phy). The deduced amino acid (aa) sequence indicates that the maize phytochrome protein is 1130 aa long (125 kDa). Overall aa sequence identity is 88% with Avena and rice type A phytochromes and 65% with the type A phytochromes of the dicots, pea, zucchini and Arabidopsis. Northern analysis indicates that maize phy transcripts are down-regulated only two- to threefold in etiolated seedlings 3 h after a red light pulse, in contrast to Avena where a ten- to 20-fold decrease is observed. On the other hand, a more than tenfold reduction in maize phy mRNA abundance occurs in seedlings transferred to white light for 24 h. Several conserved sequence elements have been identified by comparison of the maize phyA1 and other monocot phy promoters, suggesting that these common regions may be regulatory elements involved in phy expression.
Gibberellin (GA(3))-responsive aleurone protoplasts isolated from Avena sativa have been successfully used as a transient expression system to analyse promoter fusions between the wheat alpha-amylase gene alpha-Amy2/54 and the reporter gene GUS. Following PEG-mediated uptake of plasmid DNA, transient expression directed by the alpha-Amy2/54 promoter was found to be regulated in the same way as the endogenous oat alpha-amylase genes. Expression was thus dependent on the inclusion of GA(3) in the protoplast incubation media, could not be detected before a lag phase of 2 days following transformation and was inhibited by simultaneous addition of abscisic acid (ABA) with GA(3) to the media. In contrast, expression from the CaMV 35S promoter in the same system was not affected by GA(3) or ABA and could be detected 1 day after transformation. Introduction of a further three different promoters into the aleurone protoplasts confirmed that GA(3) specifically controlled transient expression from the alpha-Amy2/54 promoter only. Promoter deletions of the alpha-Amy2/54: GUS fusion demonstrated that sequences within 300 bp of the start of transcription of the gene were sufficient to direct high-level expression that was regulated by GA(3) and ABA.
We have examined phytochrome-regulated transcription of phytochrome (phy) and chlorophyll a/b binding protein (cab) genes in dark-grown Avena seedlings by using run-on transcription in isolated nuclei. Kinetic analysis of phy transcription following pulse-light treatments to produce various amounts of Pfr, the active form of phytochrome, leads to these conclusions. (i) Transcription decreases rapidly (discernible within 5 min) after Pfr formation, reaching an essentially undetectable level by 1 h. (ii) The response is very sensitive; less than 1% Pfr is sufficient to produce maximum feedback repression over the first 30 min. (iii) The duration of transcriptional repression is proportional to the Pfr concentration; derepression begins once the concentration falls below some saturation level because of degradation of Pfr. Concurrent analysis of cab transcription leads to these conclusions. (i) After Pfr formation, transcription increases approximately 10-fold by 3 h, but this response is not detectable until after a 30-min lag. (ii) Detectable induction of cab requires a greater than 30-fold-higher Pfr level than is needed to repress phy expression. (iii) Transcription returns to the preirradiation level considerably sooner than does phy transcription (less than 12 h versus greater than 24 h respectively), indicating that a high level of Pfr is needed to sustain the increased transcription of cab. Taken together, these results suggest that differences in the phytochrome signal transduction pathway are responsible for the distinct patterns of regulation of these genes. Full repression of phy occurs even when protein synthesis is inhibited greater than 90% by cycloheximide and chloramphenicol. In conjunction with the rapidity of the response to Pfr, this result provides evidence that feedback repression of phy gene transcription does not require expression of an intervening regulatory gene(s). Thus, phy is the first gene for which there is evidence for direct control of transcription by the phytochrome signal transduction chain.
We have isolated and characterized a gene encoding the phytochrome polypeptide of Avena. Based on nucleotide sequence identity with previously sequenced cDNA clones this gene is designated as type 3 (phy3). The gene is about 5.9 kb long with six exons and five introns, one each of the latter in the 5' and 3'-untranslated regions. The largest exon encodes the entire 74-kDa, chromophore-bearing, N-terminal domain of the photo-receptor postulated to be directly involved in its mechanism of action. The transcription start point, identified by mung-bean nuclease digestion, is located 24 to 35 bp downstream from a tandem TATA box. Sequence elements homologous to a number of motifs implicated as upstream regulatory elements in other genes are present in the 5'-flanking DNA of phy3. Particularly intriguing are three elements at positions -140, -470 and -650. These elements share homology with the 'GT' motif postulated to be a component of the light-regulatory element of genes encoding the small subunit of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase.
In attempting to understand the mechanism of phytochrome action we are studying structural properties of the photoreceptor molecule and the autoregulation of expression of phytochrome genes. Run-off transcription assays in isolated nuclei from Avena indicate that phytochrome decreases the transcription of its own genes threefold in less than 15 min form Pfr formation. The extent of this decrease is insufficient to account for the observed 10- to 50-fold decrease in mature phytochrome mRNA levels, suggesting that enhanced degradation may also play a significant role in determining the level of this mRNA. Structural analysis of native phytochrome from Avena indicates that the molecule is an elongated dimer of 124 kDa monomers, each consisting of a globular, 74 kDa, NH2-terminal domain bearing the single chromophore at Cys-321, and a more open COOH-terminal domain that bears the dimerization site. Controlled proteolysis and binding of monoclonal antibodies to mapped epitopes has identified two regions, one in the 6-10 kDa NH2-terminal segment and the other ca. 70 kDa from the NH2-terminus, that undergo photoconversion-induced conformational changes and are therefore candidates for involvement in the molecule's regulatory function. Comparison of the full-length amino acid sequences of Avena and Cucurbita phytochromes, derived from nucleotide sequence analysis, indicates overall homology of 65%. The most highly conserved regions are those immediately surrounding the chromophore attachment site, where 29 residues are invariant, and a hydrophobic region between residues 150 and 300, postulated to form a cavity containing the chromophore. In contrast, a strikingly lower level of homology exists at the COOH-terminus of the polypeptide between residues 800 and 1128, indicating a possible lack of involvement of this region in phytochrome function.
Cloned cDNA and genomic sequences have been analyzed to deduce the amino acid sequence of phytochrome from etiolated Avena. Restriction endonuclease site polymorphism between clones indicates that at least four phytochrome genes are expressed in this tissue. Sequence analysis of two complete and one partial coding region shows approximately 98% homology at both the nucleotide and amino acid levels, with the majority of amino acid changes being conservative. High sequence homology is also found in the 5'-untranslated region but significant divergence occurs in the 3'-untranslated region. The phytochrome polypeptides are 1128 amino acid residues long corresponding to a molecular mass of 125 kdaltons. The known protein sequence at the chromophore attachment site occurs only once in the polypeptide, establishing that phytochrome has a single chromophore per monomer covalently linked to Cys-321. Computer analyses of the amino acid sequences have provided predictions regarding a number of structural features of the phytochrome molecule.
Banding patterns of nitrate reductase (NR), nitrite reductase (NiR), and glutamine synthetase (GS) from leaves of diploid barley (Hordeum vulgare), tetraploid wheat (Triticum durum), hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum), and tetraploid wild oats (Avena barbata) were compared following starch gel electrophoresis. Two NR isozymes, which appeared to be under different regulatory control, were observed in each of the three species. The activity of the more slowly migrating nitrate reductase isozyme (NR1) was induced by NO3- in green seedlings and cycloheximide inhibited induction. However, the activity of the faster NR isozyme (NR2) was unaffected by addition of KNO3, and it was not affected by treatments of cycloheximide or chloramphenicol. Only a single isozyme of nitrite reductase was detected in surveys of three tetraploid and 18 hexaploid wheat, and 48 barley accessions; however, three isozymes associated with different ecotypes were detected in the wild oats. Inheritance patterns showed that two of the wild oat isozymes were governed by a single Mendelian locus with two codominant alleles; however, no variation was detected for the third isozyme. Treatment of excised barely and wild oat seedlings with cycloheximide and chloramphenicol showed that induction of NiR activity was greatly inhibited by cycloheximide, but only slightly by chloramphenicol. Only a single GS isozyme was detected in extracts of green leaves of wheat, barley, and wild oat seedlings. No electrophoretic variation was observed within or among any of these three species. Thus, this enzyme appears to be the most structurally conserved of the three enzymes.
Translatable phytochrome mRNA represents approximately 5 x 10(-3)% of the total poly(A)-RNA present in etiolated Avena seedlings, as determined by incorporation of radioactivity into the immunoprecipitable apoprotein in a cell-free translation system. Irradiation of such seedlings with 5-s red light induces a decline in this mRNA that is detectable within 15-30 min, shows a 50% reduction within 50-60 min, and results in a >95% reduction within 2 hr. The effect of the red light pulse is reversed by an immediately subsequent far-red pulse to the level of the far-red-light control, indicating that phytochrome exerts autoregulatory control over its own translatable mRNA level. This result necessitates revision of existing concepts of how phytochrome concentrations are modulated in vivo. Red-light dose-response curves show that the response is sensitive to very low light levels. Conversion of <1% of the total cellular phytochrome to the biologically active far-red-absorbing form is sufficient to induce approximately 60% of the maximal response, and 20% far-red-absorbing form saturates the response. The observed change in translatable phytochrome mRNA level is one of the most rapid phytochrome-induced alterations in any cellular mRNA yet recorded. Thus, autoregulation of phytochrome mRNA provides an attractive opportunity to examine the early sequence of events in phytochrome control of gene expression.
Hyperuricemia (HUA) is a prevalent metabolic disorder associated with chronic disease, posing significant global health challenges. Coix seed, a traditional cereal, has shown therapeutic potential against HUA, with oligosaccharides serving as its primary active components. However, the mechanisms of Coix seed oligosaccharides in HUA management remain underexplored. In this study, a novel oligosaccharide was isolated from Coix seed (CSO) through enzymatic hydrolysis and column chromatography. Structural analysis revealed that the CSO is primarily composed of glucose, with a backbone of →4)-β-Glc
Conserved non-coding sequences (CNS) are islands of non-coding sequences conserved across species and play an important role in regulating the spatiotemporal expression of genes. Identification of CNS provides valuable information about potentially functional genomic elements, regulatory regions, and helps to gain insights into the genetic basis of crop agronomic traits. Here, we comprehensively analyze CNS in maize, by comparing the genomes of maize inbred line B73 (Zea mays ssp. mays), its close wild relative Zea mays spp. mexicana, and other grasses in Poaceae, including sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), foxtail millet (Setaria italica) and two adlay (Coix lacryma) cultivars. There were 289,931 CNS found in two syntenic gene pairs, while 51,701 CNS were conserved within at least three species. To explore the regulatory characteristics of the CNS identified, the flanking regions of CNS were compared with the peaks called using both transposase-accessible chromatin with high-throughput sequencing (ATAC-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation with high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-Seq) data of histone modifications. It was found that CNS in maize were enriched in open chromatin regions compared with randomly selected non-coding regions of similar length. A significant enrichment of transcription factor binding sites was found within CNS sequences, including different transcription factors involved in abiotic stress response, such as OBP (OBF-BINDING PROTEIN) family and Adof1 (Encodes dof zinc finger protein). To investigate the epigenetic modification patterns in CNS, ChIP-Seq data for histone modifications H3K9ac, H3K4me3, H3K36me3, H3K9me3, and H3K27ac were further analyzed to depict the changes along CNS. Our findings revealed significantly elevated levels of transcription-promoting histone modifications in the CNS regions compared to randomly selected non-coding sequences with an equal number and similar length. Notably, CNS were also identified on both Vgt1 (Vegetative to generative transition 1) and ZmCCT10. In addition, CNS with potential functions were identified based on SNPs within CNS significantly associated with various agronomic traits in maize, which holds potential utility in molecular breeding for maize. In summary, we identified and characterized CNS in maize through genomic comparative analysis, which provides valuable insights into their potential regulatory effects on gene expression and phenotypic variation.
Coix seed, the dry mature seed kernel of the gramineous plant coix (Coix lacryma-jobi L. var. ma-yuen Stapf), is widely consumed as a traditional Chinese medicine and functional food in China and South Korea. We have previously demonstrated the protective effect of coixol, a polyphenolic compound extracted from coix, against Toxoplasma gondii (T. gondii) infection-induced lung injury. However, the protective effect of coixol on hepatic injury induced by T. gondii infection have not yet been elucidated. This study explores the impact of coixol on T. gondii infection-induced liver injury and elucidates the underlying molecular mechanisms. Female BALB/c mice and Kupffer cells (KCs) were employed to establish an acute T. gondii infection model in vivo and an inflammation model in vitro. The study examined coixol's influence on the T. gondii-derived heat shock protein 70 (T.g.HSP70)/toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)/nuclear factor (NF)-κB signaling pathway in T. gondii-infected liver macrophages. Furthermore, a co-culture system of KCs and NCTC-1469 hepatocytes was developed to observe the impact of liver macrophages infected with T. gondii on hepatocyte injury. Coixol notably inhibited the proliferation of tachyzoites and the expression of T.g.HSP70 in mouse liver and KCs, and attenuated pathological liver injury. Moreover, coixol decreased the production of high mobility group box 1, tumor necrosis factor-α, and inducible nitric oxide synthase by suppressing the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway in vitro and in vivo. Coixol also mitigated KCs-mediated hepatocyte injury. Coixol protects against liver injury caused by T. gondii infection, potentially by diminishing hepatocyte injury through the suppression of the inflammatory cascade mediated by the T.g.HSP70/TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway in KCs. These findings offer new perspectives for developing coixol as a lead compound for anti-T. gondii drugs.
Lipolysis is the hydrolysis of triglycerides (TGs), commonly known as fats. Intracellular lipolysis of TG is associated with adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL), which provides fatty acids during times of metabolic need. The aim of this study was to determine whether
The aim of the study was to identify potent antioxidant peptides sourced from coix seed, analyze the structure-activity relationship through molecular docking and quantum chemical calculation. Molecular docking results showed that among thirteen peptides selected in silico, eight had favourable binding interaction with the Keap1-Kelch domain (2FLU). Promising peptides with significant binding scores were further evaluated using quantum calculation. It was shown that peptide FFDR exhibited exceptional stability, with a high energy gap of 5.24 eV and low Highest Occupied Molecular Orbitals (HOMO) and Lowest Unoccupied Molecular Orbitals (LUMO) values. Furthermore, FFDR displayed the capacity to enhance the expression of Nrf2-Keap1 antioxidant genes (CAT, SOD, GSH-Px) and improved cellular redox balance by increasing reduced glutathione (GSH) while reducing oxidized glutathione (GSSG) and malonaldehyde (MDA) levels. These findings highlight the potential of coix seed peptides in developing novel, effective and stable antioxidant-based functional foods.
Aging is closely related to many diseases and is a long-term challenge that humans face. The oxidative damage caused by the imbalance of free radicals is an important factor in aging. In this study, we investigate the antioxidant and antiaging activities of fermented coix seed polysaccharides (FCSPs) via in vitro and in vivo experiments. The FCSPs were extracted by fermenting coix seed with
Auxin response factor (ARF) is an important transcription factor that regulates the expression of auxin-responsive genes by direct binding to their promoters, which play a central role in plant growth, development, and response to abiotic stresses. The availability of the entire Coix (Coix lacryma-jobi L.) genome sequence provides an opportunity to investigate the characteristics and evolutionary history of the ARF gene family in this medicine and food homology plant for the first time. In this study, a total of 27 ClARF genes were identified based on the genome-wide sequence of Coix. Twenty-four of the 27 ClARF genes were unevenly distributed on 8 chromosomes except Chr 4 and 10, and the remaining three genes (ClARF25-27) were not assigned to any chromosome. Most of the ClARF proteins were predicted to be localized to the nucleus, except ClARF24, which was localized to both the plasma membrane and nucleus. Twenty-seven ClARFs were clustered into six subgroups based on the phylogenetic analysis. Duplication analysis showed that segmental duplication, rather than tandem duplications promoting the expansion of the ClARF gene family. Synteny analysis showed that purifying selection might have been a primary driving force in the development of the ARF gene family in Coix and other investigated cereal plants. The prediction of the cis element of the promoter showed that 27 ClARF genes contain several stress response elements, suggesting that ClARFs might be involved in the abiotic stress response. Expression profile analysis shows that 27 ClARF genes were all expressed in the root, shoot, leaf, kernel, glume, and male flower of Coix with varying expression levels. Furthermore, qRT-PCR analyses revealed that the majority of ClARFs members were upregulated or downregulated in response to hormone treatment and abiotic stress. The current study expands our understanding of the functional roles of ClARFs in stress responses and provides basic information for the ClARF genes.
Toxoplasma gondii (T. gondii) is an obligate intracellular protozoan parasite that causes pulmonary toxoplasmosis, although its pathogenesis is incompletely understood. There is no cure for toxoplasmosis. Coixol, a plant polyphenol extracted from coix seeds, has a variety of biological activities. However, the effects of coixol on T. gondii infection have not been clarified. In this study, we infected a mouse macrophage cell line (RAW 264.7) and BALB/c mice with the T. gondii RH strain to establish infection models in vitro and in vivo, respectively, to explore protective effects and potential mechanisms of coixol on lung injury caused by T. gondii infection. Anti-T. gondii effects and underlying anti-inflammatory mechanisms of coixol were investigated by real-time quantitative PCR, molecular docking, localized surface plasmon resonance, co-immunoprecipitation, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, western blotting, and immunofluorescence microscopy. The results show that coixol inhibits T. gondii loads and T. gondii-derived heat shock protein 70 (T.g.HSP70) expression. Moreover, coixol reduced inflammatory cell recruitment and infiltration, and ameliorated pathological lung injury induced by T. gondii infection. Coixol can directly bind T.g.HSP70 or Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) to disrupt their interaction. Coixol prevented overexpression of inducible nitric oxide synthase, tumor necrosis factor-α, and high mobility group box 1 by inhibiting activation of the TLR4/nuclear factor (NF)-κB signaling pathway, consistent with effects of the TLR4 inhibitor CLI-095. These results indicate that coixol improves T. gondii infection-induced lung injury by interfering with T.g.HSP70-mediated TLR4/NF-κB signaling. Altogether, these findings suggest that coixol is a promising effective lead compound for the treatment of toxoplasmosis.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is an inflammation-associated common cancer worldwide. Paejang-san and Mori Cortex Radicis have been traditionally used for treating intestinal inflammatory diseases in Korea and China. In the present study, we developed a new herbal formula as an alternative to CRC treatments, which is composed of two main components of Paejangsan (Patriniae Radix (Paejang in Korean) and Coix Seed (Yiyiin in Korean)), and Mori Cortex Radicis (Sangbekpi in Korean) based on the addition and subtraction theory in traditional medicine, hence the name PSY, and explored the potential therapeutic effects of the new formula PSY in human CRC cells by analyzing viability, cell cycle and apoptosis. We found that PSY ethanol extract (EtOH-Ex), but not water extract, significantly suppressed the viability of human CRC cells, and synergistically decreased the cell proliferation compared to each treatment of Patriniae Radix and Coix Seed extract (PY) or Mori Cortex Radicis extract (S), suggesting the combination of PY and S in a 10-to-3 ratio for the formula PSY. PSY EtOH-Ex in the combination ratio reduced cell viability but induced cell cycle arrest at the G
Huangqin Qingre Qubi Capsule (HQC) is a Chinese herbal compound for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), which is made from dry roots of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, dry mature seeds of Gardenia jasminoides J.Ellis, dry and mature seeds of Coix lacryma-jobi var. stenocarpa Oliv., dry mature seeds of Amygdalus persica L. and roots and rhizomes of Clematis chinensis Osbeck in the proportion of 10:9:30:5:10. HQC has a significant effect in clinical treatment of RA, which can inhibit RA inflammation, improve oxidative stress state, and effectively relieve symptoms of RA patients. The anti-arthritis effect of HQC and its mechanism, especially whether it improves RA through FZD8-Wnt/β-catenin signal axis, were studied using adjuvant arthritis (AA) rats and FLS from RA patients. Real time qPCR (RT-qPCR), Western blot (WB), confocal microscopy and other molecular biological methods were used to study the anti-RA effect of HQC and its mechanism. The expression of FZD8 was significantly up-regulated in synovium and FLS of AA rats and RA FLS. FZD8 significantly activated the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, promoted abnormal proliferation of FLS, increased the levels of inflammatory factors IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-8, and significantly increased the expression of matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP3) and fibronectin. HQC has significant therapeutic effect on AA rats. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics showed that HQC had a good binding ability with FZD8. We also confirmed that HQC inhibited Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway by binding FZD8, and reduced the levels of the above inflammatory factors and pathological genes of RA. The expression of FZD8 is significantly increased in AA rats and FLS from RA patients. Clarify that HQC improves RA through the FZD8-Wnt/β-catenin signal axis, provide a clear therapeutic mechanism for HQC to improve RA, and also provide a basis for clinical promotion of HQC.
The plant-based medicinal food (PBMF) is a functional compound extracted from 6 medicinal and edible plants: Coix seed, L. edodes, A. officinalis L., H. cordata, Dandelion, and G. frondosa. Our previous studies have confirmed that the PBMF possesses anti-tumor properties in a subcutaneous xenograft model of nude mice. This study aims to further investigate the effects and potential molecular mechanisms of the PBMF on the recurrence and metastasis of gastric cancer (GC). Postoperative recurrence and metastasis model of GC was successfully established in inbred 615 mice inoculated with mouse forestomach carcinoma (MFC) cells. After tumorectomy, 63 GC mice were randomly divided into five groups and respectively subject to different treatments for 15 days as below: model control group, 5-Fu group, and three doses of PBMF (43.22, 86.44, 172.88 g/kg PBMF in diet respectively). The inhibition rate (IR) of recurrence tumor weights and organ coefficients were calculated. Meanwhile, histopathological changes were examined and the metastasis IR in lungs and lymph node tissues was computed. The mRNA expressions related to the canonical Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and lymphangiogenesis were detected by RT-qPCR in recurrence tumors and/or lung tissues. Protein expressions of β-catenin, p-β-catenin (Ser33/37/Thr41), GSK-3β, p-GSK-3β (Ser9), E-cadherin, and Vimentin in recurrence tumors were determined by Western Blot. LYVE-1, VEGF-C/D, and VEGFR-3 levels in recurrence tumors and/or lung tissues were determined by immunohistochemistry staining. The mRNA, as well as protein expression of GSK-3β were up-regulated and the mRNA expression of β-catenin was down-regulated after PBMF treatment. Meanwhile, the ratio of p-β-catenin (Ser33/37/Thr41) to β-catenin protein was increased significantly and the p-GSK-3β (Ser9) protein level was decreased. And PMBF could effectively decrease the mRNA and protein levels of Vimentin while increasing those of E-cadherin. Furthermore, PBMF markedly reduced lymphatic vessel density (LVD) (labeled by LYVE-1) in recurrence tumor tissues, and mRNA levels of VEGF-C/D, VEGFR-2/3 of recurrence tumors were all significantly lower in the high-dose group. PBMF had a significant inhibitory effect on recurrence and lung metastasis of GC. The potential mechanism may involve reversing EMT by inhabiting the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. Lymphatic metastasis was also inhibited by PBMF via down-regulating the activation of the VEGF-C/D-VEGFR-2/3 signaling cascade.
The Qingyihuaji decoction (QYHJ) is composed of seven herbs: Scutellaria barbata D.Don (Banzhilian, HSB), Gynostemma pentaphyllum (Thunb.) Makino (Jiaogulan, GP), Oldenlandia diffusa (Willd.) Roxb. (Baihuasheshecao, HDH), Ganoderma lucidum (Leyss. ex Fr.) Karst. (Lingzhi, GL), Myristica fragrans Houtt. (Doukou, AK), and Amorphophallus kiusianus (Makino) Makino (Sheliugu, RA), and Coix lacryma-jobi var. ma-yuen (Rom.Caill.) Stapf (Yiyiren, CL). QYHJ has been reported to exhibit clinical efficacy in the treatment of pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD). However, the molecular mechanism remains unclear. This study explores the therapeutic mechanism of QYHJ in the treatment of PAAD using network pharmacology to identify related targets and pathways in vivo and in vitro. The bioactive compounds of QYHJ were retrieved and screened using the ADME network pharmacology approach, followed by compound-target prediction and overlapping genes between PAAD oncogenes and QYHJ target genes. The compound-target-pathway network was established using The KEGG pathway, GO analysis, and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway and Gene Ontology (GO) analysis to identify potential action pathways. The effects of QYHJ on PAAD were evaluated in vivo and in vitro, and the predicted targets and potential pathways related to QYHJ in PAAD treatment were evaluated using qRT-PCR and immunoblotting. A total of 68 bioactive compounds of QYHJ fulfilled the ADME screening criterion, and their respective 242 target genes were retrieved. The compound-target-disease network identified 11 possible target genes. The KEGG pathway analysis showed significant enrichment of pathways in cancers, involving regulating cancer-related pathways of inflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. Furthermore, QYHJ inhibited PAAD growth in vivo; suppressed cell proliferation, invasion, and migration of PAAD; and induced cellular apoptosis in vitro. The qRT-PCR results showed that QYHJ suppressed the mRNA expression of ICAM1, VCAM1, and Bcl2, and increased that of HMOX1 and NQO1. Immunoblotting revealed changes in the PI3K/AKT/mTOR, Keap1/Nrf2/HO-1/NQO1, and Bcl2/Bax pathways upon QYHJ treatment. QYHJ can suppress PAAD growth and progression through various mechanisms, including anti-inflammation and apoptosis-induction.
Currently, the chemotherapy drugs-loaded thermosensitive liposomes have not shown an over standard of clinical effects compared to preclinical trials. In addition to the limiting factors of clinical trial design and heating device, abnormal angiogenesis in desmoplastic tumor is a key factor for unexpected clinical efficacy. Malformed tumor vasculature may result in reduced vascular transport and the heterogeneous distribution of thermosensitive liposomes in tumor. Here, we report an anti-angiogenesis strategy through hypoxia-inducible factors (HIF)-1α-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) axis based on icaritin and coix seed oil dual loaded multicomponent thermosensitive lipid complexes (IC-ML). IC-ML could downregulate the HIF-1α expression in HepG2 cells with a synergetic antitumor effect. In addition, HepG2 + LX-2 cells co-cultured 3D tumor spheres administered IC-ML showed the strongest penetration and inhibition of growth. Accordingly, IC-ML displayed improved tumor penetration and superior synergistic antitumor efficacy with HIF-1α-VEGF downregulation in vivo under mild hyperthermia. The improvement of antitumor efficacy of IC-ML comes from the anti-angiogenesis strategy and comprehensive tumor microenvironment remodeling, including depletion of cancer-associated fibroblasts as well as inhibition of M2-type tumor associated macrophage infiltration in desmoplastic tumor. This study proposes a novel multicomponent synergistic antitumor strategy to improve the therapeutic potential of thermosensitive lipid complexes for hepatocellular carcinoma.
Ischemic stroke is a devastating disease that causes long-term disability. However, its pathogenesis is unclear, and treatments for ischemic stroke are limited. Recent studies indicate that oxidative stress is involved in the pathological progression of ischemic stroke and that angiogenesis participates in recovery from ischemic stroke. Furthermore, previous studies have shown that Coicis Semen has antioxidative and anti-inflammatory effects in a variety of diseases. In the present study, we investigated whether Coicis Semen has a protective effect against ischemic stroke and the mechanism of this protective effect. Coicis Semen administration significantly decreased the infarct volume and mortality and alleviated neurological deficits at 3, 7 and 14 days after MCAO. In addition, cerebral edema at 3 days poststroke was ameliorated by Coicis Semen treatment. DHE staining showed that ROS levels in the vehicle group were increased at 3 days after reperfusion and then gradually declined, but Coicis Semen treatment reduced ROS levels. The levels of GSH and SOD in the brain were increased by Coicis Semen treatment, while MDA levels were reduced. Furthermore, Coicis Semen treatment decreased the extravasation of EB dye in MCAO mouse brains and elevated expression of the tight junction proteins ZO-1 and Occludin. Double immunofluorescence staining and western blot analysis showed that the expression of angiogenesis markers and TGFβ pathway-related proteins was increased by Coicis Semen administration. Consistent with the Adult male wild-type C57BL/6J mice were used to develop a middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) stroke model. Infarct size, neurological deficits and behavior were evaluated on days 3, 7 and 14 after staining. In addition, changes in superoxide dismutase (SOD), GSH and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were detected with a commercial kit. Blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability was assessed with Evans blue (EB) dye. Western blotting was also performed to measure the levels of tight junction proteins of the BBB. Additionally, ELISA was performed to measure the level of VEGF in the brain. The colocalization of CD31, angiogenesis markers, and Smad1/5 was assessed by double immunofluorescent staining. TGFβ pathway-related proteins were measured by western blotting. Furthermore, the cell viability of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) following oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/RX) was measured by Cell Counting Kit (CCK)-8 assay. Coicis Semen treatment alleviates brain damage induced by ischemic stroke through inhibiting oxidative stress and promoting angiogenesis by activating the TGFβ/ALK1 signaling pathway.
Kanglaite (KLT) is an active extract of the Coix lacryma-jobi seed, which can benefit Qi and nourish Yin, and disperse the accumulation of evils. It is used as a biphasic broad-spectrum anti-cancer drug, and shows synergistic effects with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. However, the mechanism of KLT combined with cisplatin (CDDP) against hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has not been elucidated. The aim of present study was to investigate the potential synergistic effects of KLT and CDDP on HepG2 cells, discussing the possible mechanisms from the perspective of CKLF1 and NF-κB mediated inflammatory response and chemoresistance, and the involvement of drug efflux transporters. CDDP injured HepG2 cells were used to investigate the effects of KLT on chemotherapeutics treated HCC. Effects of KLT pretreatment on CDDP injured HepG2 cells were determined by MTT, wound healing assay, and transwell assay. Expression of chemokine-like factor 1 (CKLF1) and activation of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) were examined by qPCR, western blot, and immunofluorescence staining. Furthermore, to study the role of CKLF1 in KLT mediated effects on this CDDP injured HCC cell model, HepG2 cells overexpressed with CKLF1 gene were used. Cell viability and NF-κB activation were investigated. Moreover, TNF-α and IL-1β levels were measured by Elisa analysis and western blot to evaluate the inflammatory response. Additionally, ATP-binding cassette (ABC) drug efflux transporters, MDR1, MRP2, and BCRP were also determined in present study. KLT pretreatment followed by CDDP treatment was found to show synergistic effects, which showed by decreased cell viability, migration and invasion ability of HepG2 cells. Expression of CKLF1 enhanced significantly in CDDP treated HepG2 cells, and KLT decreased this elevation obviously. Furthermore, CDDP activated NF-κΒ and promoted translocation of NF-κB toward the nucleus. KLT inhibited the activation of NF-κΒ, which sensitized cancer cells. Overexpression of CKLF1 reversed the effects of KLT on CDDP injured HepG2 cells, which exhibited by increased cell viability and enhanced activation of NF-κΒ. CDDP induced NF-κΒ activation could also lead to excessive inflammatory response, and KLT can suppress the aggravating inflammation which may be beneficial for tumor progression. Furthermore, we found that ABC drug efflux transporters MDR1, MRP2, and BCRP in CDDP treated HepG2 cells were decreased when pretreated with KLT. KLT pretreatment may increase the effects of CDDP on HepG2 cells, by exhibiting cooperative effects on suppression of HepG2 cells. The mechanisms may partly by inhibiting CKLF1 mediated NF-κB pathway, which may contribute to inflammation of tumor microenvironment and chemoresistance of CDDP. Inhibition of transporter-mediated drug efflux is also involved in KLT mediated sensitization effects of CDDP.
Coix seed oil (CSO) has many beneficial effects, but there is limited research on its influence on the processes and mechanisms related to senescence. Here, we used Caenorhabditis elegans as an in vivo model to investigate CSO's bioeffects on longevity. CSO (1 mg/mL) significantly extended the mean lifespan of C. elegans by over 22.79% and markedly improved stress resistance. Gene-specific mutant studies showed that the CSO-mediated increase in life expectancy was dependent on mev-1, hsf-1 and daf-16, but not daf-2. Furthermore, CSO significantly upregulated stress-inducible genes, including daf-16 and its downstream genes (sod-3, hsp-16.2 and gst-4). In addition, four major fatty acids, linoleic, oleic, palmitic and stearic, played leading roles in C. elegans' extended lifespan. Thus, CSO increased the life expectancy of, and enhanced the stress resistance in, C. elegans mainly through daf-16 and its downstream genes, but not through the insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 signaling pathway.
Cancer cachexia is a cancer-induced multifactorial debilitating syndrome directly accounting for 20% of cancer deaths without effective therapeutic approaches. It is extremely urgent to explore effective anti-cachexia drugs to ameliorate muscle and fat loss in cachexia patients. Lewis lung carcinoma bearing C57BL/6 mice were applied as the animal model to examine the therapeutic effect of Coix seed oil (CSO) on cancer cachexia. The food intake and body weight change were monitored every 3 days throughout the experiment. The IL-6 and TNF-α levels in serum were detected by ELISA assay. Several key proteins involved in muscle wasting and fat lipolysis were tested by Western blot to identify the potential mechanism of CSO. Administration of CSO through gavage significantly prevented body weight loss and ameliorated systemic inflammation without affecting food intake and tumor size. The weight and histological morphology of gastrocnemius muscle and epididymal adipose tissue in CSO-treated mice were also improved. In mechanism, we found that CSO decreased the expression of MuRF1 and the ratio of phospho-p65 (Ser536) to p65 in muscle tissue. Meanwhile, cancer-induced activation of HSL and AMPK was also inhibited by CSO administration. Coix seed oil exerts an anti-cachexia pharmaceutical effect by counteracting muscle and adipose tissue loss most likely through regulating NF-κB-MuRF1 and AMPK-HSL pathway.
Dysfunction of the intestinal epithelial barrier plays an important role in the pathogenesis of several intestinal diseases, including celiac disease, inflammatory bowel disease, and irritable bowel syndrome. The present research was carried out to investigate the protective effect of total polysaccharides of adlay bran (TPA) on TNF-α-evoked epithelial barrier dysfunction in Caco-2 cells. Caco-2 cells were treated with or without TPA in the absence or presence of TNF-α, and transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) and Phenol Red flux were assayed to evaluate the intestinal epithelial barrier function. The results indicated that TPA suppressed the TNF-α-induced release of pro-inflammatory factors. Furthermore, TPA obviously assuaged both the increased paracellular permeability and the decrease of TEER in TNF-α-challenged Caco-2 cells. Furthermore, TPA obviously assuaged TNF-α-evoked up-regulation of IL-8 and IL-6 expression, down-regulation of occludin and ZO-3 expression, and markedly suppressed the activation and protein expression of NF-κB p65. Our results indicated that TPA assuages the TNF-α-evoked dysfunction of the intestinal epithelial barrier by inhibiting the NF-κB p65-mediated inflammatory response.
It is well known that endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress plays a huge role in development of metabolic diseases. Specially, ER stress-induced cellular dysfunction has a significant involvement in the pathogenesis of human chronic disorders. This study was designed to study to assess whether an ethanol extract of Coicis Semen (CSE) and coixol induces the ER stress in Chang liver cells. Coicis Semen was mixed with 95% ethanol at a ratio of 1:10 (w/v) and freeze dried. Chang liver cells were seeded to 96-well plates and treated with or without CSE (100, 200, 300, 500, or 1000 μg/mL) or coixol (100, 200, 300, 500, 750, or 1000 μg/mL). cell viability was analyzed with MTT assay. Effects of CSE and coixol on expression of the genes for ER stress markers were determined with qRT-PCR and the expression of the protein levels of ER stress markers were determined with western blotting. The concentration causing 50% inhibition (IC CSE or coixol may have cytotoxic effect to Chang liver cells and, may induce ER stress and stimulate the UPR via activation of the PERK and IRE1 pathways in normal liver cells.
Taxol, a first-line anti-tumour drug, has low effectiveness against colorectal cancer. Combination with other agents is an effective strategy to enhance Taxol cytotoxicity. Kanglaite injection is an extract from Coix lacryma-jobi seed and is usually combined with other agents to treat cancer. The aim of this study was to investigate the treatment effect of Taxol combined with Kanglaite on colorectal cancer cell lines. Kanglaite pretreatment followed by Taxol treatment was found to show the best synergism among all combination strategies. This combination also resulted in the smallest tumour volume in a Balb/c mice model. Kanglaite inhibited the expression of nuclear factor (NF)-κΒ and upregulated that of connexin 43, both of which sensitized cancer cells to Taxol. Moreover, Kanglaite increased many cellular variations caused by Taxol, including tubulin polymerization, caspase-3 cleavage, and upregulated expression of survivin and cyclin B1. These results suggest that Kanglaite pretreatment may increase the effect of Taxol on colorectal cancer.
Clinical outcomes in patients with pancreatic cancer (PC) continue to be dismal, in part due to de novo and acquired chemoresistance. In the present study, we provide preclinical evidence that pre-treatment with coix seed emulsion, an injectable agent extracted from coix seeds, synergistically sensitized PC cell lines (BxPC-3, PANC-1 and AsPC-1) to gemcitabine, both in vitro and in vivo. Such pretreatment led to significant induction of pro-apoptosis proteins, including caspase-3, cleaved-PARP and Bax (P<0.05), after lower doses of gemcitabine compared to monotherapy. We also showed that coix seed emulsion suppressed the constitutive and gemcitabine-induced activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), as shown with the use of electrophoretic mobility shift, reporter and immunoblotting analyses. Coix seed emulsion pretreatment also downregulated the NF-κB-dependent anti‑apoptotic molecules Bcl-2, survivin and cyclooxygenase-2. In vivo, coix seed emulsion combined with gemcitabine had a much greater antitumor effect than the effect of either agent alone, consistent with the downregulation of the proliferation index, and the results of immunostaining for Ki-67, or for the NF-κB subunit p65. Overall, our data demonstrated that coix seed emulsion abrogated gemcitabine-induced activation of NF-κB, and synergistically sensitized PC cells to gemcitabine therapy.
Modified Si-Miao-San (mSMS) is composed of Rhizoma Coptidis, Cortex Phellodendri, Rhizoma Coptidis Semen Coicis and Atractylodes Rhizome. The prescription is used for the management of diabetes and insulin resistance in the clinic. This study aims to investigate its regulation of glucose disposal in adipocytes. Differentiated 3T3-L1 adipocytes were stimulated with conditioned medium derived from activated macrophages to induce insulin resistance and observed the effects of Mac-CM on insulin-mediated glucose uptake along the insulin receptor substrate-1/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. Moreover, its regulation of AMPK phosphorylation was also investigated. mSMS enhanced AMPK phosphorylation and promoted basal glucose uptake in adipocytes; mSMS inhibited NF-κB activation by reducing P65 phosphorylation and improved insulin-stimulated IRS-1 tyrosine and Akt phosphorylation, leading to the restoration of insulin-mediated glucose uptake when cells were exposed to inflammatory stimulation. These beneficial effects were diminished in the presence of the AMPK inhibitor compound C. mSMS positively regulated AMPK activity, and this action contributed to improving insulin PI3K signaling by the beneficial regulation of IRS-1 function through inhibition of inflammation in adipocytes.
The aim of this study was to determine the effects of adlay extract on melanin production and the antioxidant characteristics of the extract. The seeds were extracted by the supercritical fluid CO2 extraction (SFE) method. The effect of adlay extract on melanin production was evaluated using mushroom tyrosinase activity assay, intracellular tyrosinase activity, antioxidant properties and melanin content. Those assays were performed spectrophotometrically. In addition, the expression of melanogenesis-related proteins was determined by western blotting. The results revealed that the adlay extract suppressed intracellular tyrosinase activity and decreased the amount of melanin in B16F10 cells. The adlay extract decreased the expression of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF), tyrosinase, tyrosinase related protein-1 (TRP-1) and tyrosinase related protein-2 (TRP-2). The extract also exhibited antioxidant characteristics such as free radical scavenging capacity and reducing power. It effectively decreased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels in B16F10 cells. We concluded that the adlay extract inhibits melanin production by down-regulation of MITF, tyrosinase, TRP-1 and TRP-2. The antioxidant properties of the extract may also contribute to the inhibition of melanogenesis. The adlay extract can therefore be applied as an inhibitor of melanogenesis and could also act as a natural antioxidant in skin care products.
Previous studies revealed that Kanglaite (KLT) exhibits antitumor and immunomodulatory activities. In the present study, we show that KLT treatment stimulated the immune response by increasing the number of T cells and natural killer (NK) cells in the blood of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients. Experiments in tumor-bearing mice were further designed in order to explore the effects of KLT on the immune system and the underlying molecular mechanisms. The results showed that KLT improves the tumor cell transplantation-induced reduction in the serum level of the cytokines IFN‑γ and IL‑2, and rescues the levels of CD4+ T cells in host mice. These events enhanced the cytotoxic activities of natural killer and CD8+ T cells against the hepatic HepG2 cancer cells. KLT administration further increased the mRNA level of certain nuclear factor κB (NF‑κB)‑responsive genes in CD4+ cells. The chromatin immunoprecipitation assay showed that KLT increases the association of the NF-κB p65 subunit to the promoter regions of interleukin (IL)-2- and B-cell lymphoma (Bcl)-2-encoding genes in CD4+ T cells. Our study demonstrated that KLT is the main active ingredient of coix seed exhibiting anticancer and immunomodulatory properties. Induction of NF-κB‑mediated gene transcription in CD4+ T cells is involved in the immunomodulatory activity of KLT.
To study the effect and mechanism of Coicis Semen oil (Kanglaite injection, KLT) on renal interstitial fibrosis induced by unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO). Fifty-four male SD rats were randomly divided into 3 groups, 6 in each group, the sham operated group, the model group, and the KLT group. Renal interstitial fibrosis model was established in rats by UUO. After administration of KLT (15 mL x kg(-1) x d(-1)) for 3, 7 and 14 days, the dynamic histological changes of renal interstitial tissues were observed and renal damage including tubular impairment and interstitial fibrosis were quantified on HE and Masson stained tissue sections. The expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) and transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) were measured by immunohistochemistry staining sections. The protein expression of p-Smad2 and Smad7 were detected by Western blot respectively. The degree of tubular damage in KLT group was much lower than that in UUO group (P < 0.05). The expression of alpha-SMA and TGF-beta1 was decreased in both UUO group and KLT group, while it was significantly lower in KLT group at every time point. The protein expression of p-Smad2 was obviously decreased while the protein expressions of Smad7 was obviously increased in KLT group, compared with the UUO group (P < 0.05). Coicis Semen oil could attenuate the tubulo-interstitial fibrosis, probable by intervening the TGF-beta/Smads signal transduction pathway of UUO rats.
The Nrf2/ARE pathway plays an important role in inducing phase II detoxifying enzymes and antioxidant proteins and has been considered a potential target for cancer chemoprevention because it eliminates harmful reactive oxygen species or reactive intermediates generated from carcinogens. The objectives of this study were to identify novel Nrf2/ARE activators and to investigate the mechanistic signaling pathway involved in the activation of Nrf2-mediated cytoprotective effects against oxidative-induced cell injury. A stable ARE-driven luciferase reporter cell line was established to screen a potentially cytoprotective compound. 4-Ketopinoresinol (4-KPR), the (α-γ) double-cyclized type of lignan obtained from adlay (Coix lachryma-jobi L. var. ma-yuen Stapf), activates ARE-driven luciferase activity more effectively than the classical ARE activator tert-butylhydroquinone. 4-KPR treatment resulted in a transient increase in AKT phosphorylation and subsequent phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of Nrf2, along with increased expression of ARE-dependent cytoprotective genes, such as heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), aldo-keto reductases, and glutathione synthetic enzyme. 4-KPR suppresses oxidative stress-induced DNA damage and cell death via upregulation of HO-1. Inhibition of PI3K/AKT signaling by chemical inhibitors or RNA interference not only suppressed 4-KPR-induced Nrf2/HO-1 activation, but also eliminated the cytoprotective effect against oxidative damage. These observations in an ARE-regulated gene system suggest that 4-KPR is a novel Nrf2/ARE-mediated transcription activator, activates the Nrf2/HO-1 axis, and protects against oxidative stress-induced cell injury via activation of PI3K/AKT signaling.
Ultraviolet (UV) radiation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of skin photoaging. Depending on the wavelength of UV, the epidermis is affected primarily by UVB. One major characteristic of photoaging is the dehydration of the skin. Membrane-inserted water channels (aquaporins) are involved in this process. In this study we demonstrated that UVB radiation induced aquaporin-3 (AQP3) down-regulation in cultured human skin keratinocytes. Kanglaite is a mixture consisting of extractions of Coix Seed, which is an effective anti-neoplastic agent and can inhibit the activities of protein kinase C and NF-κB. We demonstrated that Kanglaite inhibited UVB-induced AQP3 down-regulation of cultured human skin keratinocytes. Our findings provide a potential new agent for anti-photoaging. The related molecular mechanisms remain to be further elucidated.
Adlay ( Coix lachryma-jobi L. var. ma-yuen Stapf) is a grass crop and was reported to possess anti-inflammatory activity and an antiproliferative effect in cancer cell lines. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of the ethyl acetate fraction of an adlay bran ethanolic extract (ABE-Ea) on colon carcinogenesis in an animal model and investigate its mechanism. Male F344 rats received 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) and consumed different doses of ABE-Ea. The medium-dose group (17.28 mg of ABE-Ea/day) exhibited the best suppressive effect on colon carcinogenesis and prevented preneoplastic mucin-depleted foci (MDF) formation. Moreover, RAS and Ets2 oncogenes were significantly down-regulated in this group compared to the negative control group, whereas Wee1, a gene involved in the cell cycle, was up-regulated. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein expression was significantly suppressed in all colons receiving the ABE-Ea, indicating that ABE-Ea delayed carcinogenesis by suppressing chronic inflammation. ABE-Ea included considerable a proportion of phenolic compounds, and ferulic acid was the major phenolic acid (5206 microg/g ABE-Ea) on the basis of HPLC analysis. Results from this study suggest that ABE-Ea suppressed DMH-indued preneoplastic lesions of the colon in F344 rats and that ferulic acid may be one of the active compounds.
The physiological and pathological role of oxidized polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) has been extensively studied, whereas those of hydroxy monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) are not well understood. This study demonstrated that 11-hydroxy-(9Z)-octadecenoic acid ((9Z)-11-HOE), which was isolated from adlay seeds (Coix lacryma-jobi L. var. ma-yuen STAF.), can activate peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)alpha, delta and gamma in luciferase reporter assays more efficiently than (9Z)-octadecenoic acid (oleic acid), and to the same degree as linoleic acid. (9Z)-11-HOE increased the mRNA levels of UCP2 and CD36 in C2C12 myotubes and THP- 1 cells, respectively, and these effects were blocked by the PPARdelta- and gamma-specific antagonists GSK0660 and T0070907, respectively. Evaluation of the structure.activity relationship between hydroxy MUFAs and PPAR activation revealed that (9E)-11-HOE, the geometrical isomer of (9Z)-11-HOE, activated PPARs more potently than (9Z)-11-HOE, and that PPAR activation by hydroxyl MUFAs was not markedly influenced by the position of the hydroxy group or the double bond, although PPARdelta seemed to possess ligand specificity different to that of PPARalpha or gamma . Additionally, the finding that 11-hydroxy octadecanoic acid, the hydrogenated product of (9E)-11- HOE, was also capable of activating PPARs to a similar extent as (9E)-11-HOE indicates that the double bond in hydroxy MUFAs is not essential for PPAR activation. In conclusion, (9Z)-11-HOE derived from alday seeds and hydroxy MUFAs with a chain length of 16 or 18 acted as PPAR agonists. Hydroxylation of MUFAs may change these compounds from silent PPAR ligands to active PPAR agonists.
A pharmaceutical grade extract of Coix lachryma-jobi seeds is currently the most commonly used treatment for cancer in China. Although clinical data support the use of this preparation of a Traditional Chinese Medicine for cancer treatment, biological basis for the activity of this preparation has not been previously established. To address this issue, we first evaluated the anti-neoplastic activity of a Coix extract emulsion in xenografts of MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells and found that the extract significantly inhibits growth of MDA-MB-231 xenografts in athymic nude mice. Using oligonucleotide microarrays, we determined that Coix seed extract also significantly affects gene expression in these cells, including downregulation of genes (such as COX-2 and matrixmetalloproteinases) that are considered to be important in neoplasia. The specific gene expression changes noted after Coix seed extract treatment are characteristic of inhibition of NFkappaB-dependent transcription, leading us to evaluate how the treatment affects that pathway. An NFkappaB-dependent reporter assay demonstrated dose-dependant inhibition of NFkappaB signaling by treatment of cultures with the extract, and immunofluorescent microscopy found that these effects are associated with reduced translocation of the Rel-A/p65 subunit of NFkappaB to the nucleus. Coix extract also inhibits activity of protein kinase C, a major mediator of signal transduction and activator of NFkappaB. Thus, this Traditional Chinese Medicine-based cancer treatment affects cellular pathways of recognized importance in neoplasia.
Adlay (Coix lachryma-jobi L. var. ma-yuen Stapf.) has been used as a traditional Chinese medicine for dysfunction of the endocrine system. However, there have been few studies on the effects of adlay seed on the endocrine system. In the present study, both the in vivo and in vitro effects of methanolic extracts of adlay hull (AHM) on progesterone synthesis were studied. AHM was partitioned with four different solvents: water, 1-butanol, ethyl acetate, and n-hexane. Four fractions, namely, AHM-Wa (water fraction), AHM-Bu (1-butanol fraction), AHM-EA (ethyl acetate fraction), and AHM-Hex (n-hexane fraction), were respectively obtained. Granulosa cells (GCs) were prepared from pregnant mare serum gonadotropin-primed immature female rats and were challenged with different reagents, including human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG; 0.5 IU/ml), 8-bromo-adenosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-Br-cAMP; 0.1 mM), forskolin (10 microM), 25-OH-cholesterol (10 microM), and pregnenolone (10 microM), in the presence or absence of AHM (100 microg/ml). The functions of steroidogenic enzymes, including protein expression of the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR), cytochrome P450 side chain cleavage enzyme (P450scc), protein kinase A (PKA), and aromatase activity, were investigated. The expression of StAR mRNA was also explored by using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. In the in vivo study, AHM decreased plasma progesterone and estradiol levels after an intravenous injection of AHM (2 mg/ ml/kg). In the in vitro studies, AHM decreased progesterone and estradiol via inhibition of (i) the cAMP-PKA signal transduction pathway, (ii) cAMP accumulation, (iii) P450scc and 3beta-HSD enzyme activities, (iv) PKA, P450scc and StAR protein expressions and StAR mRNA expression, and (v) aromatase activity in rat GCs. These results suggest that AHM decreased the production of progesterone via mechanisms involving the inhibition of the cAMP pathway, enzyme activities, and the protein expressions of P450scc and StAR in rat GCs.
Opaque-2 (O2) is a plant bZIP transcription factor that regulates the expression of alpha and beta prolamines, the main storage proteins in seeds of cereals such as maize and Coix. One of the main processes modulating O2 activity is the heterodimerization with other bZIP transcription factors, but the primary mechanism underlying the partner choice is still unknown. In this paper, we have characterized the bZIP domain of O2 by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), circular dichroism (CD), and size-exclusion chromatography. Results obtained from CD measurements suggested that the native O2bZIP has about 40 of its 49 leucine-zipper residues in helical structure, while the DNA-binding domain is completely unstructured. Diffusion-ordered NMR spectroscopy and size-exclusion chromatography showed that O2 forms homodimers in solution. Thermal denaturation experiments indicate that O2 reversibly undergoes dissociation and unfolding in a process that is fully dependent on the protein concentration. Subunit dissociation of O2bZIP dimers, upon dilution of the protein, led to partially folded monomers that retained approximately 80% of the native CD ellipticity at 222 nm. We believe that the existence of partially folded monomers could decrease the entropic penalty for helix formation involved in the DNA binding and in the subunit association of O2bZIP. Stabilization of partially folded monomers may also play a significant role in the dimerization of O2 with other bZIP transcription factors and, consequently, can be important for the regulation of the biological functions of O2 in plants.
Nuclear magnetic resonance is an important tool for high-resolution structural studies of proteins. It demands high protein concentration and high purity; however, the expression of proteins at high levels often leads to protein aggregation and the protein purification step can correspond to a high percentage of the overall time in the structural determination process. In the present article we show that the step of sample optimization can be simplified by selective labeling the heterologous protein expressed in Escherichia coli by the use of rifampicin. Yeast thioredoxin and a coix transcription factor Opaque 2 leucine zipper (LZ) were used to show the effectiveness of the protocol. The (1)H/(15)N heteronuclear correlation two-dimensional NMR spectrum (HMQC) of the selective (15)N-labeled thioredoxin without any purification is remarkably similar to the spectrum of the purified protein. The method has high yields and a good (1)H/(15)N HMQC spectrum can be obtained with 50 ml of M9 growth medium. Opaque 2 LZ, a difficult protein due to the lower expression level and high hydrophobicity, was also probed. The (15)N-edited spectrum of Opaque 2 LZ showed only the resonances of the protein of heterologous expression (Opaque 2 LZ) while the (1)H spectrum shows several other resonances from other proteins of the cell lysate. The demand for a fast methodology for structural determination is increasing with the advent of genome/proteome projects. Selective labeling the heterologous protein can speed up NMR structural studies as well as NMR-based drug screening. This methodology is especially effective for difficult proteins such as hydrophobic transcription factors, membrane proteins, and others.
Dihydrodipicolinate synthase (DHPS) is the main enzyme of a specific branch of the aspartate pathway leading to lysine biosynthesis in higher plants. We have cloned and characterized the DHPS-encoding Dap)A gene from the maize-related grass Coix lacryiana-jobi. The DapA open reading frame is interrupted by two introns and encodes the 326 amino acid-long Coix DHPS protein, which is 95% identical to the maize DHPS protein. Coix DNA gel blot analysis with maize DHPS cDNA as a probe showed a single strongly hybridizing band along with faint bands. RNA gel blot analysis showed that DHPS transcripts are present in coleoptiles, embryos, endosperms, and roots but are almost undetectable in blades of young leaves of both Coix and maize. The 5'-flanking region of the DapA gene contains a TGACTC GCN4-like element located 372 bp upstream the putative translation start codon. Steady-state levels of DHPS mRNA were slightly reduced in the endosperms and embryos of the maize lysine-rich opaque2 mutants when compared with those in normal kernels. Selective binding assay with the maize Opaque2 protein (O2) showed that the GCN4-like element is not an O2 binding site, suggesting that the DHPS gene is not under the control of O2.
Transient expression and electrophoretic mobility shift assay were used to investigate the cis elements and the DNA-binding proteins involved in the regulation of expression of a 22 kDa zein-like alpha-coixin gene. A set of unidirectional deletions was generated in a 962 bp fragment of the alpha-coixin promoter that had been previously fused to the reporter gene GUS. The constructs were assayed by transient expression in immature maize endosperm. There was no significant decrease in GUS activity as deletions progressed from -1084 to -238. However, deletion from -238 to -158, which partially deleted the O2c box, resulted in a dramatic decrease in GUS activity emphasizing the importance of the O2 box in the quantitative expression of the gene. The -238 promoter fragment interacted with Coix endosperm nuclear proteins to form 5 DNA-protein complexes, C1-C5, as detected by EMSA. The same retarded complexes were observed when the -158 promoter fragment was used in the binding reactions. Reactions with nuclear extracts isolated from Coix endosperms harvested from 6 to 35 days after pollination revealed that the 5 DNA-protein complexes that interact with the alpha-coixin promoter are differentially assembled during seed development. Deletion analysis carried out on the -238/ATG promoter fragment showed that a 35 bp region from -86 to -51 is essential for the formation of the complexes observed. When nuclear extracts were incubated with an antiserum raised against the maize Opaque-2 protein, the formation of 4 complexes, C1, C3, C4 and C5, was prevented indicating that an Opaque-2 like protein participates in the formation of those complexes. Complex C2 was not affected by the addition of the O2 antibody, suggesting the existence of a novel nuclear factor, CBF1, that binds to the promoter and makes protein-protein associations with other proteins present in Coix endosperm nuclei.
The maize Opaque2 (O2) protein is a basic leucine zipper transcription factor that controls the expression of distinct classes of endosperm genes through the recognition of different cis-acting elements in their promoters. The O2 target region in the promoter of the alpha-coixin gene was analyzed in detail and shown to comprise two closely adjacent binding sites, named O2u and O2d, which are related in sequence to the GCN4 binding site. Quantitative DNase footprint analysis indicated that O2 binding to alpha-coixin target sites is best described by a cooperative model. Transient expression assays showed that the two adjacent sites act synergistically. This synergy is mediated in part by cooperative DNA binding. In tobacco protoplasts, O2 binding at the O2u site is more important for enhancer activity than is binding at the O2d site, suggesting that the architecture of the O2-DNA complex is important for interaction with the transcriptional machinery.
The seed storage proteins of Coix, sorghum and maize are codified by homologous genes which are coordinately expressed in the endosperm in a temporal-specific fashion. Opaque2 (O2), a bZIP protein originally isolated from maize, has been described as a transcription activator of alpha- and beta-prolamin genes. The isolation and characterization of cDNA and genomic clones encoding the Opaque2 homologue from Coix are reported here. The coding region of the Coix O2 gene is interrupted by five introns and codifies a polypeptide of 408 amino acids. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with two different sequences of maize O2 protein showed that the Coix O2 protein is similar to the maize O2 isolated from W22 maize inbred line. The Coix O2 protein has the same binding specificity and expression pattern of the maize O2. The O2 proteins together with OHP1, OsBZIPPA, SPA, CPRF2 and RITA1 were assigned to one of the five bZIP plant families in an updated classification of plant bZIP according to bZIP domain similarity.
The expression of Brazil nut storage albumin genes is highly regulated during seed development. Several sequences in the promoter of one of these genes show homologies with the target sites of the maize O2 bZIP regulatory protein. We therefore asked whether the O2 protein would recognize these promoter sequences. We show that the O2 protein binds to three different sequences (F1, F2 and F3). F1 and F3 are hybrid C/G and A/G boxes, respectively, that are homologous to the O2-binding site of a maize alpha-zein gene. F2 is a new O2-binding sequence related to the O2 target sites of the Coix alpha-coxin, the maize b-32 genes and the AP-1 pseudopalindrome. Molecular modelling showed that an Asn and a Ser in the 02 DNA binding domain make different base-specific contacts with each operator. 5' Promoter deletions of the be2S1 gene showed that the domain containing the O2 target sites F1 and F2 is required for detectable reporter gene expression in transgenic tobacco seeds. Moreover, the homologous coix O2 protein was shown to in situ transactivate the promoter region encompassing the three O2-binding sites F1, F2 and F3. Thus, these sites may be in vivo regulatory sequences mediating activation by bZIP regulatory proteins.
The maize Opaque2 (O2) protein is a "leucine zipper" DNA binding factor that interacts with the sequence TCCACGTAGA in the promoters of the 22-kD alpha-zein genes and activates its transcription. A completely different consensus sequence (GATGAPyPuTGPu) identified in b-32, a gene that encodes an abundant albumin that is also under control of the O2 locus, can also be bound by the O2 protein. We showed that the gene encoding the 22-kD-like alpha-coixin, the alpha-prolamin of the maize-related grass Coix, can also be transactivated by the O2 protein. A binding assay in vitro and footprint analysis demonstrated that the GACATGTC sequence of the alpha-coixin promoter can be recognized and protected by the maize O2 protein. Employing transient expression experiments in immature maize endosperm and tobacco mesophyll protoplasts, we demonstrated that the O2 protein can activate expression of the beta-glucuronidase reporter gene placed under the control of the 22-kD-like alpha-coixin promoter. We also demonstrated that a 22-kD-like alpha-coixin pseudogene promoter is transactivated by the maize O2 protein.
Coix (Coix lacryma-jobi L.), known as the "King of the Gramineae" for its nutritional and medicinal value, is a dual-purpose crop with both edible and therapeutic applications. WRI1 (WRINKLED1), an AP2 family transcription factor, plays a pivotal role in plant development and stress adaptation. Although WRI1 genes have been studied in several species, their functions in Coix remain largely uncharacterized. Here, we identified 20 ClWRI1 genes distributed across 10 chromosomes and classified them into three subfamilies based on phylogenetic relationships, conserved motifs, and gene structures. Expression profiling revealed that ClWRI1 genes are widely expressed, with pronounced levels in seeds. Transcriptomic and qRT-PCR analyses showed that several ClWRI1 genes respond to drought, salinity, cold, and heat stress, suggesting their involvement in abiotic stress responses. Heterologous expression of ClWRI1-18 and ClWRI1-20 in yeast conferred enhanced stress tolerance, supporting their functional relevance. Yeast two-hybrid assays further confirmed a physical interaction between ClWRI1-18 and ClWRI1-20. Collectively, these findings indicate that the WRI1 gene family contributes to stress adaptation in Coix, with ClWRI1-18 and ClWRI1-20 representing key candidates for genetic improvement.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is associated with increased in-hospital mortality, yet effective therapeutic agents remain limited. Coixol, a polyphenolic compound derived from Coix, possesses anti-inflammatory properties, but its role in AKI remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that Coixol exerts protective effects against ischemia/reperfusion (I/R)-induced AKI by alleviating cellular senescence. Coixol treatment significantly reduced serum creatinine (SCr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels and decreased the expression of KIM1 and NGAL. RNA sequencing and validation experiments revealed that Coixol suppressed cellular senescence in AKI. Through a weighted gene co-expression network analysis and machine learning, we identified Plaur as a key target of Coixol, which was further validated using RNA-seq data. Notably, Plaur overexpression in AKI mice diminished the protective effects of Coixol, confirming its crucial role. Additionally, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations demonstrated strong binding affinity between Coixol and Plaur. These findings highlight Coixol as a promising renal protective agent targeting Plaur and cellular senescence in AKI.
Coix seed oil (CSO) is a natural substance with significant anticancer potential. However, the molecular mechanism and the gene regulatory network of lipid biosynthesis were not identified in Coix seed. Here, a comprehensive transcriptome analysis was conducted on two
Conserved non-coding sequences (CNS) are islands of non-coding sequences conserved across species and play an important role in regulating the spatiotemporal expression of genes. Identification of CNS provides valuable information about potentially functional genomic elements, regulatory regions, and helps to gain insights into the genetic basis of crop agronomic traits. Here, we comprehensively analyze CNS in maize, by comparing the genomes of maize inbred line B73 (Zea mays ssp. mays), its close wild relative Zea mays spp. mexicana, and other grasses in Poaceae, including sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), foxtail millet (Setaria italica) and two adlay (Coix lacryma) cultivars. There were 289,931 CNS found in two syntenic gene pairs, while 51,701 CNS were conserved within at least three species. To explore the regulatory characteristics of the CNS identified, the flanking regions of CNS were compared with the peaks called using both transposase-accessible chromatin with high-throughput sequencing (ATAC-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation with high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-Seq) data of histone modifications. It was found that CNS in maize were enriched in open chromatin regions compared with randomly selected non-coding regions of similar length. A significant enrichment of transcription factor binding sites was found within CNS sequences, including different transcription factors involved in abiotic stress response, such as OBP (OBF-BINDING PROTEIN) family and Adof1 (Encodes dof zinc finger protein). To investigate the epigenetic modification patterns in CNS, ChIP-Seq data for histone modifications H3K9ac, H3K4me3, H3K36me3, H3K9me3, and H3K27ac were further analyzed to depict the changes along CNS. Our findings revealed significantly elevated levels of transcription-promoting histone modifications in the CNS regions compared to randomly selected non-coding sequences with an equal number and similar length. Notably, CNS were also identified on both Vgt1 (Vegetative to generative transition 1) and ZmCCT10. In addition, CNS with potential functions were identified based on SNPs within CNS significantly associated with various agronomic traits in maize, which holds potential utility in molecular breeding for maize. In summary, we identified and characterized CNS in maize through genomic comparative analysis, which provides valuable insights into their potential regulatory effects on gene expression and phenotypic variation.
Jasmonate ZIM-domain (JAZ) acts as the repressor of the JA signaling pathway and plays a significant role in stress-inducible defense, hormone crosstalk, and the regulation of the growth-defense tradeoff. The aim of this study is to systematically survey and analyze the JAZ gene family in
Coix lacryma-jobi L. belongs to family Poaceae, is widely cultivated in tropical Asian countries for its nutritional and medicinal values. Coix is often threatened by lepidopteran such as Mythimna separata during its life cycle, resulting in severe yield reduction. Insect feeding can trigger defense signaling and increased defense responses in many other crops, yet little is known about whether simulated armyworm feeding on Coix leaves could induce anti-herbivory responses and whether armyworm feeding could activate priming in systemic leaves. In this study, Mythimna separata simulated herbivory elicited increased jasmonic acid (JA) level, JA-Ile (JA-isoleucine conjugate) and altered transcriptome in the Coix leaves. Meanwhile, M. separata simulated herbivory in local leaves primed the systemic leaves for increased accumulation of jasmonic acid and enhanced resistance to M. separata. Consistently, transcriptome analysis showed the systemic leaves were primed, which were up- or down-regulated comparing with the non-primed systemic leaves. In this study, we first reported Mythimna separata simulated herbivory induced increased defense response in leaves of Coix, also Mythimna separata herbivory primed Coix resistance in systemic leaves. This study provides new insight into the regulation of defense responses of Coix against M. separata and the ecological function of priming in Coix.
Proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) is a vision-threatening condition associated with retinal-detachment (RD), primarily caused by fibrocellular scar membrane formation. This study investigates the therapeutic potential of adlay seed extract fractions in mitigating PVR-associated pathways, focusing on oxidative stress, proliferation, inflammation, and fibrogenesis in retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells. Adlay seed extract fractions (methanolic: MeOH and residual: Res) were obtained through solvent extraction and characterized for carbohydrate, protein, flavonoid content, and antioxidant activity. RPE cells were cultured, and their viability in response to adlay fractions was assessed using the MTT assay. Gene expression analysis of IL-1β, IL-6, LIF, TGF-β, Snail and α-SMA genes was conducted via real-time PCR after treatment with adlay fractions. The Res fraction exhibited higher levels of protein, carbohydrate, flavonoids, and phenols compared to the MeOH fraction, along with significantly enhanced antioxidant activity. Both fractions showed inhibitory effects on RPE cell viability, with the Res fraction demonstrating a more pronounced impact. Gene expression analysis revealed a significant decrease in IL-6 and TGF-β expression with the MeOH fraction treatment, while the Res fraction led to decreased expression of IL-6, LIF, TGF-β, Snail and α-SMA, indicating a more comprehensive modulation of PVR-associated pathways. This study highlights the potential therapeutic benefits of adlay seed extract fractions in mitigating PVR-associated pathways in RPE cells. The Res fraction, particularly rich in bioactive compounds and exhibiting potent antioxidant activity, shows promise in attenuating oxidative stress, proliferation, inflammation, and fibrogenesis, critical processes in PVR development. These findings underscore the potential of adlay seed extracts as a novel therapeutic strategy for PVR warranting further investigation and clinical validation.
Herba Patriniae and Coix seed (HC) constitute a widely utilized drug combination in the clinical management of colorectal cancer (CRC) that is known for its diuretic, anti-inflammatory, and swelling-reducing properties. Although its efficacy has been demonstrated in a clinical setting, the active compounds and their mechanisms of action in CRC treatment remain to be fully elucidated. To identify the active, CRC-targeting components of HC and to elucidate the mechanisms of action involved. Active HC components were identified and screened using databases. Targets for each component were predicted. CRC-related targets were obtained from human gene databases. Interaction targets between HC and CRC were identified. A "drug-ingredient-target" network was created to identify the core components and targets involved. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses were conducted to elucidate the key pathways involved. Molecular docking between core targets and key components was executed. Nineteen active components of HC were identified, with acacetin as the primary active compound. The predictive analysis identified 454 targets of the active compounds in HC. Intersection mapping with 2685 CRC-related targets yielded 171 intervention targets, including 30 core targets. GO and KEGG analyses indicated that HC may influence the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathway. Molecular docking showed that acacetin exhibited an optimal interaction with Acacetin, the principal active compound in the HC pair, inhibited the proliferation and migration of HT-29 cells and promoted apoptosis through the PI3K/Akt/p53 signaling pathway.
Previous studies have demonstrated that enzymatically prepared coix seed prolamin hydrolysates (CHPs) contain several bioactive peptides that efficiently inhibit the activity of target enzymes (α-glucosidase and dipeptidyl kinase-IV) in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). However, the anti-T2DM effects and potential mechanisms of CHPs as a whole in vivo have not yet been systematically explored. Therefore, we evaluated the preventive, therapeutic, and modifying effects of CHPs on T2DM by combining physiological and liver transcriptomics with a T2DM mouse model. The results showed that sustained high-fructose intake led to prediabetic symptoms in mice, with abnormal fluctuations in blood glucose and blood lipid levels. Intervention with CPHs effectively prevented weight loss; regulated abnormal changes in blood glucose; improved impaired glucose tolerance; inhibited the abnormal expression of total cholesterol, triglycerides, and low-density lipoproteins; alleviated insulin resistance; and restored pancreatic islet tissue function in mice fed a high-fructose diet. In addition, we found that CHPs also play a palliative role in the loss of liver function and protect various organ tissues (including the liver, kidneys, pancreas, and heart), and are effective in preventing damage to the liver and pancreatic islet cells. We also found that the intake of CHPs reversed the abnormally altered hepatic gene profile in model mice and identified 381 differentially expressed genes that could serve as key genes for preventing the development of T2DM, which are highly correlated with multiple glycolipid metabolic pathways. We demonstrated that CHPs play a positive role in the normal functioning of the insulin signalling pathway dominated by the IRS-1/PI3K/AKT (insulin receptor substrates-1/phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B) pathway. In summary, CHPs can be used as effective food-borne glucose-modifying components of healthy foods.
The objective of this research was to investigate how the combination of semen coicis extract and PD-1 inhibitors can potentially work together to enhance the anti-tumor effects, with a focus on understanding the underlying mechanism. We obtained the active components and specific targets of semen coicis in the treatment of NSCLC from various databases, namely TCMSP, GeneCard, and OMIM. By utilizing the STRING database and Cytoscape software, we established a protein interaction network (PPI) for the active ingredient of semen coicis and the target genes related to NSCLC. To explore the potential pathways involved, we conducted gene ontology (GO) and biological pathway (KEGG) enrichment analyses, which were further supported by molecular docking technology. Additionally, we conducted cyto-inhibition experiments to verify the inhibitory effects of semen coicis alone or in combination with a PD-1 inhibitor on A549 cells, along with examining the associated pathways. Furthermore, we investigated the synergistic mechanism of these two drugs through cytokine release experiments and the PD-L1 expression study on A549 cells. Semen coicis contains two main active components, Omaine and (S)-4-Nonanolide. Its primary targets include PIK3R1, PIK3CD, PIK3CA, AKT2, and mTOR. Molecular docking experiments confirmed that these ingredients and targets form stable bonds. In vitro experiments showed that semen coicis demonstrates inhibitory effects against A549 cells, and this effect was further enhanced when combined with PD-1 inhibitors. PCR and WB analysis confirmed that the inhibition of the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway may contribute to this effect. Additionally, semen coicis was observed to decrease the levels of IFN-γ, IL-6, and TNF-α, promoting the recovery of the human anti-tumor immune response. And semen coicis could inhibit the induced expression of PD‑L1 of A549 cells stimulated by IFN‑γ as well. Semen coicis not only has the ability to kill tumor cells directly but also alleviates the immunosuppression found in the tumor microenvironment. Additionally, it collaboratively enhances the effectiveness of PD-1 inhibitors against tumors by blocking the activation of PI3K-AKT-mTOR.
The enhanced therapeutic effects and mechanisms of certain herbal combination in various herbal prescriptions are mostly unclear. A combination of two herbs, namely Ephedrae herba (EH) and Coicis semen (CS), has been commonly prescribed for obesity. In our previous work, the combination of EH and CS was studied using network pharmacological approach to predict its pharmacological targets and in vitro experiments to evaluate its efficacy on obesity. Although we demonstrated enhanced anti-adiposity effects of the combination on matured adipocytes, the molecular mechanisms and contributing compounds underlying the effects of EH-CS combination on adiposity or adipogenesis were not fully elucidated. The current study adopted integrated bioinformatics analysis to precisely validate potential targets of EH-CS by screening differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of morbid obesity patients from NCBI gene expression omnibus (GEO). Based on the functional cluster analysis of down-regulated DEGs, the anti-adipogenesis mechanism of EH-CS combination was speculated with KEGG enrichment analysis. Furthermore, we investigated the combinational effects of EH and coixol, or stigmasterol, the two compounds in CS which were expected to have main beneficial effects in metabolic diseases. Moreover, distinct effect of the combination on transcriptional activity of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) was investigated using electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). The EH-CS combination was predicted to modulate down-regulated genes which are involved in KEGG pathways crucial to metabolic disease in morbidly obese individuals. The combination of EH with CS compounds significantly increased the phosphorylation of acetyl-coA carboxylase (ACC), AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), and protein kinase B (AKT) in 3T3-L1 cells and decreased intracellular lipid accumulation. The two CS compounds significantly increased the anti-adipogenesis/lipogenesis effects of EH by inhibiting the gene expression levels. Finally, the combination of EH and coixol inhibited dexamethasone-induced GR translocation to the nucleus and transcriptional binding activity in adipocytes. The combination of EH and CS could be considered a therapeutic strategy for treating metabolic diseases, including obesity.
The purpose of this study was to explore the role of coixendide (Coix) combine with temozolomide (TMZ) in the treatment of Glioblastoma (GBM) and explore its possible mechanism. CCK-8 was used to determine the inhibitory rate of Coix group, TMZ group and drug combination group on GBM cells, and the combination index (CI) was calculated to determine whether they had synergistic effect. Then RNA was extracted from each group, transcriptome sequencing was performed, and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. The possible mechanism was analyzed by GO enrichment analysis and KEGG enrichment analysis. The CI of Coix and TMZ indicating a synergistic effect when TMZ concentration is 0.1 mg/ml and Coix concentration is 2 mg/ml. Transcriptome sequencing analysis showed that interferon (IFN) related genes were down-regulated by Coix and up-regulated by TMZ and combined drugs, however, the up-regulation induced by combined drugs was less than that of TMZ. Besides IFN related genes, cholesterol metabolism pathway were also been regulated. Coix and TMZ have synergistic effects in the treatment of GBM at certain doses. RNA-Seq results suggested that the abnormal on genetic materials caused by DNA damage induced by TMZ treatment can be sensed by IFN related genes and activates antiviral IFN signaling, causing the activation of repairing mechanism and drug resistance. Coix inhibits IFN related genes, thereby inhibits drug resistance of TMZ. In addition, the activation of ferroptosis and the regulation of DEGs in cholesterol metabolism pathway were also contributed to the synergistic effects of Coix and TMZ.
Heat shock protein 20 (HSP20) is a member of the heat stress-related protein family, which plays critical roles in plant growth, development, and response to abiotic stresses. Although many HSP20 genes have been associated with heat stress in numerous types of plants, little is known about the details of the HSP20 gene family in Coix. To investigate the mechanisms of the ClHSP20 response to heat and drought stresses, the ClHSP20 gene family in Coix was identified and characterized based on genome-wide analysis. A total of 32 putative ClHSP20 genes were identified and characterized in Coix. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that ClHSP20s were grouped into 11 subfamilies. The duplicated event analysis demonstrated that tandem duplication and segment duplication events played crucial roles in promoting the expansion of the ClHSP20 gene family. Synteny analysis showed that Coix shared the highest homology in 36 HSP20 gene pairs with wheat, followed by 22, 19, 15, and 15 homologous gene pairs with maize, sorghum, barley, and rice, respectively. The expression profile analysis showed that almost all ClHSP20 genes had different expression levels in at least one tissue. Furthermore, 22 of the 32 ClHSP20 genes responded to heat stress, with 11 ClHSP20 genes being significantly upregulated and 11 ClHSP20 genes being significantly downregulated. Furthermore, 13 of the 32 ClHSP20 genes responded to drought stress, with 6 ClHSP20 genes being significantly upregulated and 5 ClHSP20 genes being significantly downregulated. Thirty-two ClHSP20 genes were identified and characterized in the genome of Coix. Tandem and segmental duplication were identified as having caused the expansion of the ClHSP20 gene family. The expression patterns of the ClHSP20 genes suggested that they play a critical role in growth, development, and response to heat and drought stress. The current study provides a theoretical basis for further research on ClHSP20s and will facilitate the functional characterization of ClHSP20 genes.
Seed germination is an important stage of growth and reproduction and plays an important role in the life cycle of spermatophyte. It is co-determined by both genetic and environmental factors, and plant hormone regulation may be a highly conservative mechanism.
Valine-glutamine (VQ) proteins are non-specific plant proteins that have a highly conserved motif: FxxhVQxhTG. These proteins are involved in the development of various plant organs such as seeds, hypocotyls, flowers, leaves and also play a role in response to salt, drought and cold stresses. Despite their importance, there is limited information available on the evolutionary and structural characteristics of VQ family genes in Coix lacryma-jobi. In this study, a total of 31 VQ genes were identified from the coix genome and classified into seven subgroups (I-VII) based on phylogenetic analysis. These genes were found to be unevenly distributed on 10 chromosomes. Gene structure analysis revealed that these genes had a similar type of structure within each subfamily. Moreover, 27 of ClVQ genes were found to have no introns. Conserved domain and multiple sequence alignment analysis revealed the presence of a highly conserved sequences in the ClVQ protein. This research utilized quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and promoter analysis to investigate the expression of ClVQ genes under different stress conditions. Results showed that most ClVQ genes responded to polyethylene glycol, heat treatment, salt, abscisic acid and methyl jasmonate treatment with varying degrees of expression. Furthermore, some ClVQ genes exhibited significant correlation in expression changes under abiotic stress, indicating that these genes may act synergistically in response to adversarial stress. Additionally, yeast dihybrid verification revealed an interaction between ClVQ4, ClVQ12, and ClVQ26. This study conducted a genome-wide analysis of the VQ gene family in coix, including an examination of phylogenetic relationships, conserved domains, cis-elements and expression patterns. The goal of the study was to identify potential drought resistance candidate genes, providing a theoretical foundation for molecular resistance breeding.
Auxin response factor (ARF) is an important transcription factor that regulates the expression of auxin-responsive genes by direct binding to their promoters, which play a central role in plant growth, development, and response to abiotic stresses. The availability of the entire Coix (Coix lacryma-jobi L.) genome sequence provides an opportunity to investigate the characteristics and evolutionary history of the ARF gene family in this medicine and food homology plant for the first time. In this study, a total of 27 ClARF genes were identified based on the genome-wide sequence of Coix. Twenty-four of the 27 ClARF genes were unevenly distributed on 8 chromosomes except Chr 4 and 10, and the remaining three genes (ClARF25-27) were not assigned to any chromosome. Most of the ClARF proteins were predicted to be localized to the nucleus, except ClARF24, which was localized to both the plasma membrane and nucleus. Twenty-seven ClARFs were clustered into six subgroups based on the phylogenetic analysis. Duplication analysis showed that segmental duplication, rather than tandem duplications promoting the expansion of the ClARF gene family. Synteny analysis showed that purifying selection might have been a primary driving force in the development of the ARF gene family in Coix and other investigated cereal plants. The prediction of the cis element of the promoter showed that 27 ClARF genes contain several stress response elements, suggesting that ClARFs might be involved in the abiotic stress response. Expression profile analysis shows that 27 ClARF genes were all expressed in the root, shoot, leaf, kernel, glume, and male flower of Coix with varying expression levels. Furthermore, qRT-PCR analyses revealed that the majority of ClARFs members were upregulated or downregulated in response to hormone treatment and abiotic stress. The current study expands our understanding of the functional roles of ClARFs in stress responses and provides basic information for the ClARF genes.
Kanglaite injection (KLTi), made of Coix seed oil, has been shown to be effective in the treatment of numerous cancers. However, the anticancer mechanism requires further exploration. This study aimed to investigate the underlying anticancer mechanisms of KLTi in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells. Public databases were searched for active compounds in KLTi, their potential targets and TNBC-related targets. KLTi's core targets and signaling pathways were determined through compound-target network, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Molecular docking was carried out to predict the binding activity between active ingredients and key targets. In vitro experiments were conducted to further validate the predictions of network pharmacology. Fourteen active components of KLTi were screened from the database. Fifty-three candidate therapeutic targets were selected, and bioinformatics analysis was performed to identify the top two active compounds and three core targets. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses indicated that KLTi exerts therapeutic effects on TNBC through the cell cycle pathway. Molecular docking results showed that the main compounds of KLTi exhibited good binding activity to key target proteins. Results from in vitro experiments showed that KLTi inhibited proliferation and migration of TNBC cell lines 231 and 468, induced apoptosis, blocked cells in the G2/M phase, downregulated the mRNA expression of seven G2/M phase-related genes cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2), and checkpoint kinase 1 (CHEK1), cell division cycle 25A (CDC25A), cell division cycle 25B (CDC25B), maternal embryonic leucine zipper kinase (MELK), and aurora kinase A (AURKA), as well as downregulated CDK1 protein expression and up-regulated protein expression of Phospho-CDK1. By utilizing network pharmacology, molecular docking, and in vitro experiments, KLTi was confirmed to have anti-TNBC effects by arresting cell cycle and inhibiting CDK1 dephosphorylation.
Herbal combinations are regarded as basic strategy in oriental medicine with various purposes. Ephedrae herba (EH) and Coicis semen (CS) are two herbal medicines used to treat obesity in many herbal prescriptions, yet the effect and significance of this herbal pair have not been evaluated. This study is to elucidate the effect of a novel herbal pair, EH-CS, on obesity and identify the key synergistic mechanism underlying it. We investigated the network of herbs comprising the anti-obesity herbal prescriptions. Using the tools of network pharmacology, we investigated the compound-target interactions of EH and CS in combination to predict their effects in combination. Five EH-CS samples with different EH to CS ratios were prepared to investigate their efficacies in adipocytes. 1-mode network analysis of herbs in prescriptions based on literature review revealed the importance of EH-CS in anti-obesity prescriptions. The herbal combination comprised of equivalent weights (1:1) of EH and CS most potently reduced mature adipocyte adiposity, although several markers of adipogenesis and lipid synthesis were more suppressed by pure EH. PTGS2 (COX-2 gene) expression, a common target of EH and CS as deduced by compound-target network analysis, was affected by EH-CS extract treatments. However, EH at high concentration (25 μg/ml) notably increased PTGS2 expression without adversely affecting cell viability. However, EH-CS combination of the same concentration markedly decreased PTGS2 gene expression. These results show that the compounds in CS and EH act in concert to enhance the pharmacological effect of EH, but control unexpected effects of EH treatment.
The Qingyihuaji decoction (QYHJ) is composed of seven herbs: Scutellaria barbata D.Don (Banzhilian, HSB), Gynostemma pentaphyllum (Thunb.) Makino (Jiaogulan, GP), Oldenlandia diffusa (Willd.) Roxb. (Baihuasheshecao, HDH), Ganoderma lucidum (Leyss. ex Fr.) Karst. (Lingzhi, GL), Myristica fragrans Houtt. (Doukou, AK), and Amorphophallus kiusianus (Makino) Makino (Sheliugu, RA), and Coix lacryma-jobi var. ma-yuen (Rom.Caill.) Stapf (Yiyiren, CL). QYHJ has been reported to exhibit clinical efficacy in the treatment of pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD). However, the molecular mechanism remains unclear. This study explores the therapeutic mechanism of QYHJ in the treatment of PAAD using network pharmacology to identify related targets and pathways in vivo and in vitro. The bioactive compounds of QYHJ were retrieved and screened using the ADME network pharmacology approach, followed by compound-target prediction and overlapping genes between PAAD oncogenes and QYHJ target genes. The compound-target-pathway network was established using The KEGG pathway, GO analysis, and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway and Gene Ontology (GO) analysis to identify potential action pathways. The effects of QYHJ on PAAD were evaluated in vivo and in vitro, and the predicted targets and potential pathways related to QYHJ in PAAD treatment were evaluated using qRT-PCR and immunoblotting. A total of 68 bioactive compounds of QYHJ fulfilled the ADME screening criterion, and their respective 242 target genes were retrieved. The compound-target-disease network identified 11 possible target genes. The KEGG pathway analysis showed significant enrichment of pathways in cancers, involving regulating cancer-related pathways of inflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. Furthermore, QYHJ inhibited PAAD growth in vivo; suppressed cell proliferation, invasion, and migration of PAAD; and induced cellular apoptosis in vitro. The qRT-PCR results showed that QYHJ suppressed the mRNA expression of ICAM1, VCAM1, and Bcl2, and increased that of HMOX1 and NQO1. Immunoblotting revealed changes in the PI3K/AKT/mTOR, Keap1/Nrf2/HO-1/NQO1, and Bcl2/Bax pathways upon QYHJ treatment. QYHJ can suppress PAAD growth and progression through various mechanisms, including anti-inflammation and apoptosis-induction.
Coix seed oil (CSO) has a wide range of anticancer effects. However, the mechanism of action against pancreatic cancer (PC) and regulation of mitochondria in vitro is still unclear. This research investigated the possible mechanism of CSO induction of PC cell apoptosis and regulating mitochondrial functional damage. Proliferation of PC cells, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), qualitative and quantitative analysis of PC cell apoptosis, openness of mitochondrial permeability transition pore, related protein expression, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and gene expression were determined by cell counting kit-8, JC-1 staining, acridine orange and ethidium bromide staining, flow cytometry, calcein-AM/cobalt staining, western blotting, dichlorofluorescein diacetate probe, and quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, respectively. We confirmed that PTEN protein was involved in CSO-induced PANC-1 cell apoptosis and mitochondrial functional damage. CSO induced depolarization of MMP, increased opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore, increased ROS production, and further increased mitochondrial damage. Additionally, CSO downregulated expression of p-AKT and p-PI3K proteins; upregulated protein expression of cleaved caspase-9, Bax, cleaved caspase-3 and cytochrome c; and downregulated expression of Bcl-2 by upregulating the PTEN gene. The corresponding protein expression was consistent with the gene expression level. Furthermore, the loss of function of PTEN protein reduces the ability of CSO to induce apoptosis of PANC-1 cells and damage to mitochondrial function. CSO induces apoptosis of PANC-1 PC cells by modulating mitochondrial functional impairment and related apoptotic molecules via PTEN, which may be closely related to the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.
Coix lacryma-jobi L. is a very important economic crop widely cultivated in Southeast Asia. Drought affects more than four million square kilometers every year, and is a significant factor limiting agricultural productivity. However, relatively little is known about how Coix lacryma-jobi L. responds to drought treatments. To obtain a detailed and comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms regulating the transcriptional responses of Coix lacryma-jobi L. to drought treatment, we employed high throughput short-read sequencing of cDNA prepared from polyadenylated RNA to explore global gene expression after a seven-day drought treatment. We generated a de novo assembled transcriptome comprising 65,480 unique sequences. Differential expression analysis based on RSEM-estimated transcript abundances identified 5,315 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) when comparing samples from plants following drought-treatment and from the appropriate controls. Among these, the transcripts for 3,460 genes were increased in abundance, whereas 1,855 were decreased. Real-time quantitative PCR for 5 transcripts confirmed the changes identified by RNA-Seq. The results provide a transcriptional overview of the changes in Coix lacryma-jobi L. in response to drought, and will be very useful for studying the function of associated genes and selection of molecular marker of Coix lacryma-jobi L in the future.
Kanglaite (KLT) is an active extract of the Coix lacryma-jobi seed, which can benefit Qi and nourish Yin, and disperse the accumulation of evils. It is used as a biphasic broad-spectrum anti-cancer drug, and shows synergistic effects with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. However, the mechanism of KLT combined with cisplatin (CDDP) against hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has not been elucidated. The aim of present study was to investigate the potential synergistic effects of KLT and CDDP on HepG2 cells, discussing the possible mechanisms from the perspective of CKLF1 and NF-κB mediated inflammatory response and chemoresistance, and the involvement of drug efflux transporters. CDDP injured HepG2 cells were used to investigate the effects of KLT on chemotherapeutics treated HCC. Effects of KLT pretreatment on CDDP injured HepG2 cells were determined by MTT, wound healing assay, and transwell assay. Expression of chemokine-like factor 1 (CKLF1) and activation of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) were examined by qPCR, western blot, and immunofluorescence staining. Furthermore, to study the role of CKLF1 in KLT mediated effects on this CDDP injured HCC cell model, HepG2 cells overexpressed with CKLF1 gene were used. Cell viability and NF-κB activation were investigated. Moreover, TNF-α and IL-1β levels were measured by Elisa analysis and western blot to evaluate the inflammatory response. Additionally, ATP-binding cassette (ABC) drug efflux transporters, MDR1, MRP2, and BCRP were also determined in present study. KLT pretreatment followed by CDDP treatment was found to show synergistic effects, which showed by decreased cell viability, migration and invasion ability of HepG2 cells. Expression of CKLF1 enhanced significantly in CDDP treated HepG2 cells, and KLT decreased this elevation obviously. Furthermore, CDDP activated NF-κΒ and promoted translocation of NF-κB toward the nucleus. KLT inhibited the activation of NF-κΒ, which sensitized cancer cells. Overexpression of CKLF1 reversed the effects of KLT on CDDP injured HepG2 cells, which exhibited by increased cell viability and enhanced activation of NF-κΒ. CDDP induced NF-κΒ activation could also lead to excessive inflammatory response, and KLT can suppress the aggravating inflammation which may be beneficial for tumor progression. Furthermore, we found that ABC drug efflux transporters MDR1, MRP2, and BCRP in CDDP treated HepG2 cells were decreased when pretreated with KLT. KLT pretreatment may increase the effects of CDDP on HepG2 cells, by exhibiting cooperative effects on suppression of HepG2 cells. The mechanisms may partly by inhibiting CKLF1 mediated NF-κB pathway, which may contribute to inflammation of tumor microenvironment and chemoresistance of CDDP. Inhibition of transporter-mediated drug efflux is also involved in KLT mediated sensitization effects of CDDP.
Uniconazole (UNZ) can alleviate a variety of abiotic stresses such as low temperature. With application of UNZ on
Coix seed oil (CSO) has many beneficial effects, but there is limited research on its influence on the processes and mechanisms related to senescence. Here, we used Caenorhabditis elegans as an in vivo model to investigate CSO's bioeffects on longevity. CSO (1 mg/mL) significantly extended the mean lifespan of C. elegans by over 22.79% and markedly improved stress resistance. Gene-specific mutant studies showed that the CSO-mediated increase in life expectancy was dependent on mev-1, hsf-1 and daf-16, but not daf-2. Furthermore, CSO significantly upregulated stress-inducible genes, including daf-16 and its downstream genes (sod-3, hsp-16.2 and gst-4). In addition, four major fatty acids, linoleic, oleic, palmitic and stearic, played leading roles in C. elegans' extended lifespan. Thus, CSO increased the life expectancy of, and enhanced the stress resistance in, C. elegans mainly through daf-16 and its downstream genes, but not through the insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 signaling pathway.
Coix is a grass crop domesticated as early as the Neolithic era. It is still widely cultivated for both highly nutritional food and medicinal use. However, the genetic study and breeding of this crop are hindered by the lack of a sequenced genome. Here, we report de novo sequencing and assembly of the 1619-Mb genome of Coix, and annotation of 75.39% repeats and 39 629 protein-coding genes. Comparative genomics analysis showed that Coix is more closely related to sorghum than maize, but intriguingly only Coix and maize had a recent genome duplication event, which was not detected in sorghum. We further constructed a genetic map and mapped several important traits, especially the strength of hull. Selection of papery hull (thin: easy dehulling) from the stony hull (thick: difficult dehulling) in wild progenitors was a key step in Coix domestication. The papery hull makes seed easier to process and germinate. Anatomic and global transcriptome analysis revealed that the papery hull is a result of inhibition of cell division and wall biogenesis. We also successfully demonstrated that seed hull pressure resistance is controlled by two major quantitative trait loci (QTLs), which are associated with hull thickness and color, respectively. The two QTLs were further fine mapped within intervals of 250 kb and 146 kb, respectively. These resources provide a platform for evolutionary studies and will facilitate molecular breeding of this important crop.
Adlay (Coix lacryma-jobi) is a tropical grass that has long been used in traditional Chinese medicine and is known for its nutritional benefits. Recent studies have shown that vitamin E compounds in adlay protect against chronic diseases such as cancer and heart disease. However, the molecular basis of adlay's health benefits remains unknown. Here, we generated adlay gene sets by de novo transcriptome assembly using long-read isoform sequencing (Iso-Seq) and short-read RNA-Sequencing (RNA-Seq). The gene sets obtained from Iso-seq and RNA-seq contained 31,177 genes and 57,901 genes, respectively. We confirmed the validity of the assembled gene sets by experimentally analyzing the levels of prolamin and vitamin E biosynthesis-associated proteins in adlay plant tissues and seeds. We compared the screened adlay genes with known gene families from closely related plant species, such as rice, sorghum and maize. We also identified tissue-specific genes from the adlay leaf, root, and young and mature seed, and experimentally validated the differential expression of 12 randomly-selected genes. Our study of the adlay transcriptome will provide a valuable resource for genetic studies that can enhance adlay breeding programs in the future.
In present study, the content of main nutrients in wild coix seed were significantly higher than cultivated coix seed. Transcriptome and proteome were combined to provide new insight of the molecular mechanisms linked to nutritional quality of wild coix seed and cultivated coix seed by RNA sequencing and isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification techniques. A total of 20,039 genes and 471 proteins exhibited differential expression level in cultivated coix seed when compared with wild coix seed. These genes and proteins revealed that the pathway of flavonoids biosynthesis, starch and sucrose metabolism, lipid metabolism and amino acid metabolism were linked to nutritional quality of coix seed. Our results provided transcriptomics and proteomics information with respect to the molecular mechanisms of nutritional changes of coix seed, identified key genes and proteins that associated with the metabolism and accumulation of nutrients, and helped clarify the mechanisms of nutrient differences.
It is well known that endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress plays a huge role in development of metabolic diseases. Specially, ER stress-induced cellular dysfunction has a significant involvement in the pathogenesis of human chronic disorders. This study was designed to study to assess whether an ethanol extract of Coicis Semen (CSE) and coixol induces the ER stress in Chang liver cells. Coicis Semen was mixed with 95% ethanol at a ratio of 1:10 (w/v) and freeze dried. Chang liver cells were seeded to 96-well plates and treated with or without CSE (100, 200, 300, 500, or 1000 μg/mL) or coixol (100, 200, 300, 500, 750, or 1000 μg/mL). cell viability was analyzed with MTT assay. Effects of CSE and coixol on expression of the genes for ER stress markers were determined with qRT-PCR and the expression of the protein levels of ER stress markers were determined with western blotting. The concentration causing 50% inhibition (IC CSE or coixol may have cytotoxic effect to Chang liver cells and, may induce ER stress and stimulate the UPR via activation of the PERK and IRE1 pathways in normal liver cells.
This study was performed to evaluate the effect of Seyoeum (SYE), a novel herbal meal replacement, on insulin resistance and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in obese mice fed with a high-fat diet (HFD). SYE contained six kinds of herbal powder such as Compared with HFD group, body weight, serum glucose, serum insulin, HOMA-IR, total cholesterol, triglyceride, epididymal fat pad weight, liver weight, and inflammatory gene expression were significantly reduced in SYE group. Insulin receptor gene expression increased in SYE group. Based on these results, we conclude that SYE improved obesity and insulin resistance in high-fat fed obese mice. Our findings suggest that SYE could be a beneficial meal replacement through these antiobesity and anti-insulin resistance effects.
Coix seed has the functions of fortifying the spleen and inhibiting the dampness. However, it remains unclear which Coix seed compositions is responsible for these functions. Previous investigations have revealed that the main compositions of Coix seed are proteins, polysaccharides, oils and starches. The objectives of this study are to explore which is the most effective compositions in fortifying the spleen and examine how Coix seed works in regulating the water transport on the spleen deficiency and wet dampness (SDWD) rat model. The rats used were divided into (i) control group, (ii) model group, (iii) decoction group, (iv) protein group, (v) polysaccharide group, (vi) oil group and (vii) starch group. The urine volume, the drinking volume and the water loading index in each group were calculated. Agilent 8*60K array was used for microarray-based gene expression analysis. The differential mRNAs related to the transport activity were screened. qRT-PCR was used to validate the mRNA microarray. The results demonstrated that all treatment groups could decrease the dampness of SDWD rats. mRNA microarray had significant effect on the protein group and the polysaccharide group in regulating the water transport, among which the most significant mRNA was Fabp6, Slc51a, Slc51b, Slc11a2, Slc4a10 and AQP3 respectively. The compositions of proteins and polysaccharides had the most significant effect in regulating the water transport of SDWD rat model. The contributing mRNA focused on Fabp, Slc and AQP family.
S100 calcium binding protein A4 (S100A4) promotes extracellular signal transduction, intercellular adhesion, motility and mobility. Different extracts from Coix lachryma-jobi have been used for the treatment of various types of cancer in Asia. In our previous study, the polysaccharide fraction extact, CP1, induced cell apoptosis of non‑small cell lung cancer cells. In the current study, CP1 inhibited migration and invasion of A549 cells in a scratch wound healing assay and matrigel invasion assay, respectively. Furthermore, reverse transcription‑polymerase chain reaction and western blotting demonstrated that CP1 downregulated the gene and protein expression levels of S100A4. In silico docking analysis demonstrated that polysaccharides may not interfere with dimerization, whereas, the affinity of polysaccharides for an S100A4‑NMIIA pocket was margnially greater than at the dimerization sites. Thus, CP1 inhibited A549 cell migration and invasion potentially via downregulation of S100A4, and may also interact with the binding site of S100A4‑NMIIA, which indicated that CP1 has potential as an alternative cancer chemotherapeutic by targeting S100A4.
Prolamins are the major seed storage proteins of grasses. In maize and related species, prolamins are classified into α-, β-, γ-, and δ-subclasses by their solubility properties. α-prolamins are encoded by multigene families and have a secondary structure that consists of tandem α-helix repeats. Maize has two α-prolamin subclasses, namely the 19 and 22 kDa subclasses that contain nine and 10 α-helix repeats, respectively. Here, we present an evolutionary study based on the structure, organization, and expression of α-prolamins in maize, sugarcane, sorghum, and coix. True 22 kDa subclasses containing 10 repeats are conserved in all four species, but true 19 kDa subclasses containing nine repeats are found only in maize and sugarcane. We discovered a 19 kDa-like α-coixin that, as in sorghum, is encoded by few genes. These data suggest that a 19 kDa progenitor present in the ancestor common to maize, coix, sorghum, and sugarcane was preserved at low copy number in coix and sorghum, while amplified into multigene family architecture in maize and sugarcane. The expression profiling of α-prolamins, verified by two-dimensional gels, showed highly conserved multispot composition for the 19 kDa α-prolamins in maize and sugarcane. Coix and sorghum did not present true 19 kDa α-prolamin spots. Our data show remarkable similarity between maize and sugarcane 19 kDa α-prolamins regarding both gene structure and expression. Since the multigene architecture of 19 kDa α-canein appeared after sugarcane diverged from sorghum, our data suggest that maize and sugarcane might have acquired the multigene family encoding these storage proteins from a common ancestor.
The aim of this study was to determine the effects of adlay extract on melanin production and the antioxidant characteristics of the extract. The seeds were extracted by the supercritical fluid CO2 extraction (SFE) method. The effect of adlay extract on melanin production was evaluated using mushroom tyrosinase activity assay, intracellular tyrosinase activity, antioxidant properties and melanin content. Those assays were performed spectrophotometrically. In addition, the expression of melanogenesis-related proteins was determined by western blotting. The results revealed that the adlay extract suppressed intracellular tyrosinase activity and decreased the amount of melanin in B16F10 cells. The adlay extract decreased the expression of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF), tyrosinase, tyrosinase related protein-1 (TRP-1) and tyrosinase related protein-2 (TRP-2). The extract also exhibited antioxidant characteristics such as free radical scavenging capacity and reducing power. It effectively decreased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels in B16F10 cells. We concluded that the adlay extract inhibits melanin production by down-regulation of MITF, tyrosinase, TRP-1 and TRP-2. The antioxidant properties of the extract may also contribute to the inhibition of melanogenesis. The adlay extract can therefore be applied as an inhibitor of melanogenesis and could also act as a natural antioxidant in skin care products.
Many dietary compounds are known to have health benefits owing to their antioxidative and anti-inflammatory properties. To determine the molecular mechanism of these food-derived compounds, we analyzed their effect on various genes related to cell apoptosis, DNA damage and repair, oxidation and inflammation using in vitro cell culture assays. This review further tests the hypothesis proposed previously that downstream products of COX-2 (cyclooxygenase-2) called electrophilic oxo-derivatives induce antioxidant responsive elements (ARE), which leads to cell proliferation under antioxidative conditions. Our findings support this hypothesis and show that cell proliferation was inhibited when COX-2 was down-regulated by polyphenols and polysaccharides. Flattened macrophage morphology was also observed following the induction of cytokine production by polysaccharides extracted from viili, a traditional Nordic fermented dairy product. Coix lacryma-jobi (coix) polysaccharides were found to reduce mitochondrial membrane potential and induce caspase-3- and 9-mediated apoptosis. In contrast, polyphenols from blueberries were involved in the ultraviolet-activated p53/Gadd45/MDM2 DNA repair system by restoring the cell membrane potential. Inhibition of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 by saponin extracts of ginsenoside (Ginsen) and Gynostemma and inhibition of S100A4 by coix polysaccharides inhibited cancer cell migration and invasion. These observations suggest that antioxidants and changes in cell membrane potential are the major driving forces that transfer signals through the cell membrane into the cytosol and nucleus, triggering gene expression, changes in cell proliferation and the induction of apoptosis or DNA repair.
In this study, we investigated whether natural products including coixol derived from Coix Lachryma-Jobi var. ma-yuen affect MUC5AC mucin gene expression, production and secretion from airway epithelial cells. Confluent NCI-H292 cells were pretreated with oleic acid, linoleic acid, glyceryl trilinoleate, beta-stigmasterol or coixol for 30 min and then stimulated with PMA (phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate), EGF (epidermal growth factor) or TNF-α (tumor necrosis factor-α) for 24 h. The MUC5AC mucin gene expression, mucin protein production and secretion were measured by RT-PCR and ELISA. The results were as follows: (1) Oleic acid, linoleic acid, glyceryl trilinoleate, beta-stigmasterol and coixol inhibited the expression of MUC5AC mucin gene induced by PMA from NCI-H292 cells; (2) Oleic acid, linoleic acid, glyceryl trilinoleate, beta-stigmasterol and coixol also inhibited the production of MUC5AC mucin protein induced by the same inducers from NCI-H292 cells; (3) Coixol inhibited the expression of MUC5AC mucin gene and production of MUC5AC mucin protein, induced by EGF or TNF-α from NCI-H292 cells; (4) Coixol decreased PMA-induced MUC5AC mucin secretion from NCI-H292 cells. This result suggests that coixol, the characteristic component among the examined five natural products derived from C. Lachryma-Jobi var. ma-yuen, can regulate gene expression, production and secretion of mucin, by directly acting on airway epithelial cells.
Coix seeds are commonly used in Traditional Chinese Medicine and ingested through daily diet. The aim of this study is to analyze the apoptotic effect of coix polysaccharides on A549 cells. A fraction of polysaccharides was isolated from coix seeds and extracted by ethanol precipitation. The extract was then purified by dialysis and DEAE-52 ion-exchange chromatography. Cell viability was determined by the MTT assay. Cell morphology was observed by scanning electronic microscopy (SEM), and cell cycle was detected by ﬂow cytometry (FCM). The relative quantities of caspase-3 and caspase-9 were determined by RT-PCR. Coix polysaccharides exerted remarkable inhibitory effects on A549 cell proliferation. Apoptotic bodies were observed by SEM. Apoptotic induction was also verified by DNA accumulation using propidium iodide nucleus staining in the S phase by ﬂow cytometry, as well as by DNA fragmentation using the comet assay. Regarding the molecular mechanism of apoptosis induction, the gene expression of caspase-3 and caspase-9 increased after coix polysaccharide treatment. Polysaccharide fraction CP-1 induced A549 cell apoptosis. 薏仁是禾木科植物薏米的干燥成熟种仁，是常用的中药，又是普遍、常吃的食物。本研究旨在探讨薏仁多糖诱导A549细胞凋亡的作用。 本研究通过水提醇沉法提取粗的薏仁多糖，再通过透析、离子交换柱层析等方法得到薏仁多糖组份（CP-1）。采用MTT测定A549细胞的存活率；扫描电镜观察细胞形态；流式细胞仪检测细胞周期；RT-PCR测定 MTT测得薏仁多糖对A549细胞存活率有明显的生长抑制作用。扫描电子显微镜观察到测试组A549细胞产生凋亡小体，流式细胞仪分析薏仁多糖处理导致A549细胞S期阻滞，并产生凋亡峰。RT-PCR结果表明与对照组比较，测试组caspase-3和caspase-9表达量上升。通过DNA彗星实验薏仁多糖可延长尾距，表明DNA断裂破碎。 研究结果表明薏仁多糖组分可有效地诱发A549癌细胞凋亡。
Allergy is an inflammation associated with an elevated T helper (Th) 2 lymphocyte responses to allergens and elevated serum IgE levels and cytokines. In one of our previous studies using a cell model, various flavonoids were found to be involved the anti-inflammatory effects of adlay bran. The present study investigated the effect of the ethyl-acetate fraction of ethanolic extract of adlay bran (ABE-EtOAc) in an ovalbumin (OVA)-immunized murine model. Six-week-old female BALB/c mice underwent OVA sensitization and were used as an allergy model. An orogastric gavage was used to force feed these mice with 240 mg/kg ABE-EtOAc from their sixth week through their twelfth week. Immune reactions were determined by measuring changes in Th2-type cytokine (IL-4 and IL-5) levels and production of antibodies. ABE-EtOAc was found capable of regulating the Th1/Th2 immune reaction through its regulation of IL-2 and IL-4. It also significantly reduced the production of anti-OVA IgE antibodies (10%), increased the secretion of IFN-γ and decreased the secretion of IL-6 (38%). These results suggest that adlay bran extract can reduce an allergic reaction by balancing Th1/Th2 immune responses and that it might be used in the treatment of this condition.
The Nrf2/ARE pathway plays an important role in inducing phase II detoxifying enzymes and antioxidant proteins and has been considered a potential target for cancer chemoprevention because it eliminates harmful reactive oxygen species or reactive intermediates generated from carcinogens. The objectives of this study were to identify novel Nrf2/ARE activators and to investigate the mechanistic signaling pathway involved in the activation of Nrf2-mediated cytoprotective effects against oxidative-induced cell injury. A stable ARE-driven luciferase reporter cell line was established to screen a potentially cytoprotective compound. 4-Ketopinoresinol (4-KPR), the (α-γ) double-cyclized type of lignan obtained from adlay (Coix lachryma-jobi L. var. ma-yuen Stapf), activates ARE-driven luciferase activity more effectively than the classical ARE activator tert-butylhydroquinone. 4-KPR treatment resulted in a transient increase in AKT phosphorylation and subsequent phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of Nrf2, along with increased expression of ARE-dependent cytoprotective genes, such as heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), aldo-keto reductases, and glutathione synthetic enzyme. 4-KPR suppresses oxidative stress-induced DNA damage and cell death via upregulation of HO-1. Inhibition of PI3K/AKT signaling by chemical inhibitors or RNA interference not only suppressed 4-KPR-induced Nrf2/HO-1 activation, but also eliminated the cytoprotective effect against oxidative damage. These observations in an ARE-regulated gene system suggest that 4-KPR is a novel Nrf2/ARE-mediated transcription activator, activates the Nrf2/HO-1 axis, and protects against oxidative stress-induced cell injury via activation of PI3K/AKT signaling.
Modified Si-Miao-San (mSMS) has showed anti-inflammatory potency and has been used in the clinic to treat metabolic disorders such as obesity and diabetes, but whether its anti-inflammatory activity contributes to improving insulin resistance remains to be determined. This study aims to investigate the mechanistic relationship between its anti-inflammatory activity and modulation of insulin sensitivity in free fatty acid-stimulated HepG2 cells. HepG2 cells were stimulated with palmitate (PA) and the effect of mSMS on insulin mediated-glycogen synthesis and triglyceride secretion was observed. The inhibition of mSMS on gene expression of proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and inhibitor of NF-κB kinase-β (IKKβ) activation was investigated. In addition, the effects of mSMS on insulin signaling transduction along insulin receptor substrates-1 (IRS-1)/Akt pathway were also evaluated. Furthermore, the effect of mSMS on glucose intolerance induced by conditioned-medium derived from activated macrophages was also assessed in normoglycemic mice. Treatment of hepatocytes with PA reduced insulin sensitivity and mSMS effectively increased insulin-mediated glycogen synthesis and restored insulin inhibition of triglyceride secretion. mSMS suppressed IKKβ activation and down-regulated TNF-α and IL-6 gene over-expression, demonstrating its anti-inflammatory activity in hepatocytes. PA-evoked inflammation impaired insulin signaling cascades and mSMS improved insulin signaling transduction by modification of Ser/Thr phosphorylation of IRS-1 and downstream Akt (T308), thereby improved insulin sensitivity in hepatocytes. mSMS also improved glucose intolerance induced by inflammatory cytokines in normoglycemic mice, which further demonstrated its modulation toward insulin sensitivity in vivo. The results suggest that mSMS inhibited inflammatory response and improved insulin sensitivity in hepatocytes via an IKKβ/IRS-1/Akt-dependent pathway.
The aim of the present study was to investigate effects of the ethyl acetate fraction of an ethanol extract of Coix lachryma-jobi (ECLJ) on glucose uptake and adipocyte differentiation in 3T3-L1 cells. ECLJ phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and its downstream substrate acetyl-coenzymeA carboxylase in 3T3-L1 cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Moreover, we discovered that compound C inhibits ECLJ-stimulated ACC phosphorylation. In addition, ECLJ exhibited a dose-dependent stimulation of glucose uptake in 3T3-L1 cells, and this increase was obviously attenuated by compound C. ECLJ also caused a decrease in the expression levels of adipogenesis factors such as fatty acid synthase, sterol-regulatory-element-binding protein-1c, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ, and CAATT/enhancer binding protein α in a dose-dependent manner. Differentiation was examined by Oil red O staining activity after ECLJ treatment for 6 days. ECLJ decreased mean droplet size. These results suggest a possible role for AMPK in the process of adipose differentiation and that ECLJ targeted for adipocyte functions could be effective in improving the symptoms of metabolic syndrome.
The seed-based production of recombinant proteins is an efficient strategy to achieve the accumulation, correct folding, and increased stability of these recombinant proteins. Among potential plant molecular farming systems, soybean [Glycine max (L.) Merrill] is a viable option for the production of recombinant proteins due to its high protein content, known regulatory sequences, efficient gene transfer protocols, and a scalable production system under greenhouse conditions. We report here the expression and stable accumulation of human coagulation factor IX (hFIX) in transgenic soybean seeds. A biolistic process was utilised to co-introduce a plasmid carrying the hFIX gene under the transcriptional control of the α' subunit of a β-conglycinin seed-specific promoter and an α-Coixin signal peptide in soybean embryonic axes from mature seeds. The 56-kDa hFIX protein was expressed in the transgenic seeds at levels of up to 0.23% (0.8 g kg(-1) seed) of the total soluble seed protein as determined by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and western blot. Ultrastructural immunocytochemistry assays indicated that the recombinant hFIX in seed cotyledonary cells was efficiently directed to protein storage vacuoles. Mass spectrometry characterisation confirmed the presence of the hFIX recombinant protein sequence. Protein extracts from transgenic seeds showed a blood-clotting activity of up to 1.4% of normal plasma. Our results demonstrate the correct processing and stable accumulation of functional hFIX in soybean seeds stored for 6 years under room temperature conditions (22 ± 2°C).
Tandemly arrayed genes (TAGs) account for about one-third of the duplicated genes in eukaryotic genomes. They provide raw genetic material for biological evolution, and play important roles in genome evolution. The 22-kDa prolamin genes in cereal genomes represent typical TAG organization, and provide the good material to investigate gene amplification of TAGs in closely related grass genomes. Here, we isolated and sequenced the Coix 22-kDa prolamin (coixin) gene cluster (283 kb), and carried out a comparative analysis with orthologous 22-kDa prolamin gene clusters from maize and sorghum. The 22-kDa prolamin gene clusters descended from orthologous ancestor genes, but underwent independent gene amplification paths after the separation of these species, therefore varied dramatically in sequence and organization. Our analysis indicated that the gene amplification model of 22-kDa prolamin gene clusters can be divided into three major stages. In the first stage, rare gene duplications occurred from the ancestor gene copy accidentally. In the second stage, rounds of gene amplification occurred by unequal crossing over to form tandem gene array(s). In the third stage, gene array was further diverged by other genomic activities, such as transposon insertions, segmental rearrangements, etc. Unlike their highly conserved sequences, the amplified 22-kDa prolamin genes diverged rapidly at their expression capacities and expression levels. Such processes had no apparent correlation to age or order of amplified genes within TAG cluster, suggesting a fast evolving nature of TAGs after gene amplification. These results provided insights into the amplification and evolution of TAG families in grasses.
Soybean plants are promising bioreactors for the expression of biochemically complex proteins that cannot be produced in a safe and/or economically viable way in microorganisms, eukaryotic culture cells or secreted by transgenic animal glands. Soybeans present many desirable agronomic characteristics for high scale protein production, such as high productivity, short reproductive cycle, photoperiod sensitivity, and natural organs destined for protein accumulation in the seeds. The significant similarities between plant and human cells in terms of protein synthesis processes, folding, assembly, and post-translational processing are important for efficient accumulation of recombinant proteins. We obtained two transgenic lines using biolystics, incorporating the human proinsulin gene under control of the monocot tissue-specific promoter from sorghum gamma-kafirin seed storage protein gene and the alpha-coixin cotyledonary vacuolar signal peptide from Coix lacryma-jobi (Poaceae). Transgenic plants expressed the proinsulin gene and accumulated the polypeptide in mature seeds. Protein targeting to cotyledonary protein storage vacuoles was successfully achieved and confirmed with immunocytochemistry assays. The combination of different regulatory sequences was apparently responsible for high stability in protein accumulation, since human proinsulin was detected after seven years under room temperature storage conditions.
Adlay ( Coix lachryma-jobi L. var. ma-yuen Stapf) is a grass crop and was reported to possess anti-inflammatory activity and an antiproliferative effect in cancer cell lines. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of the ethyl acetate fraction of an adlay bran ethanolic extract (ABE-Ea) on colon carcinogenesis in an animal model and investigate its mechanism. Male F344 rats received 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) and consumed different doses of ABE-Ea. The medium-dose group (17.28 mg of ABE-Ea/day) exhibited the best suppressive effect on colon carcinogenesis and prevented preneoplastic mucin-depleted foci (MDF) formation. Moreover, RAS and Ets2 oncogenes were significantly down-regulated in this group compared to the negative control group, whereas Wee1, a gene involved in the cell cycle, was up-regulated. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein expression was significantly suppressed in all colons receiving the ABE-Ea, indicating that ABE-Ea delayed carcinogenesis by suppressing chronic inflammation. ABE-Ea included considerable a proportion of phenolic compounds, and ferulic acid was the major phenolic acid (5206 microg/g ABE-Ea) on the basis of HPLC analysis. Results from this study suggest that ABE-Ea suppressed DMH-indued preneoplastic lesions of the colon in F344 rats and that ferulic acid may be one of the active compounds.
The physiological and pathological role of oxidized polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) has been extensively studied, whereas those of hydroxy monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) are not well understood. This study demonstrated that 11-hydroxy-(9Z)-octadecenoic acid ((9Z)-11-HOE), which was isolated from adlay seeds (Coix lacryma-jobi L. var. ma-yuen STAF.), can activate peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)alpha, delta and gamma in luciferase reporter assays more efficiently than (9Z)-octadecenoic acid (oleic acid), and to the same degree as linoleic acid. (9Z)-11-HOE increased the mRNA levels of UCP2 and CD36 in C2C12 myotubes and THP- 1 cells, respectively, and these effects were blocked by the PPARdelta- and gamma-specific antagonists GSK0660 and T0070907, respectively. Evaluation of the structure.activity relationship between hydroxy MUFAs and PPAR activation revealed that (9E)-11-HOE, the geometrical isomer of (9Z)-11-HOE, activated PPARs more potently than (9Z)-11-HOE, and that PPAR activation by hydroxyl MUFAs was not markedly influenced by the position of the hydroxy group or the double bond, although PPARdelta seemed to possess ligand specificity different to that of PPARalpha or gamma . Additionally, the finding that 11-hydroxy octadecanoic acid, the hydrogenated product of (9E)-11- HOE, was also capable of activating PPARs to a similar extent as (9E)-11-HOE indicates that the double bond in hydroxy MUFAs is not essential for PPAR activation. In conclusion, (9Z)-11-HOE derived from alday seeds and hydroxy MUFAs with a chain length of 16 or 18 acted as PPAR agonists. Hydroxylation of MUFAs may change these compounds from silent PPAR ligands to active PPAR agonists.
A pharmaceutical grade extract of Coix lachryma-jobi seeds is currently the most commonly used treatment for cancer in China. Although clinical data support the use of this preparation of a Traditional Chinese Medicine for cancer treatment, biological basis for the activity of this preparation has not been previously established. To address this issue, we first evaluated the anti-neoplastic activity of a Coix extract emulsion in xenografts of MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells and found that the extract significantly inhibits growth of MDA-MB-231 xenografts in athymic nude mice. Using oligonucleotide microarrays, we determined that Coix seed extract also significantly affects gene expression in these cells, including downregulation of genes (such as COX-2 and matrixmetalloproteinases) that are considered to be important in neoplasia. The specific gene expression changes noted after Coix seed extract treatment are characteristic of inhibition of NFkappaB-dependent transcription, leading us to evaluate how the treatment affects that pathway. An NFkappaB-dependent reporter assay demonstrated dose-dependant inhibition of NFkappaB signaling by treatment of cultures with the extract, and immunofluorescent microscopy found that these effects are associated with reduced translocation of the Rel-A/p65 subunit of NFkappaB to the nucleus. Coix extract also inhibits activity of protein kinase C, a major mediator of signal transduction and activator of NFkappaB. Thus, this Traditional Chinese Medicine-based cancer treatment affects cellular pathways of recognized importance in neoplasia.
To study the effect of Kanglaite injection on cyclooxygenase activity in lung carcinoma A549 cells. The expression of mRNA of COX-1 and COX-2 were measured by RT-PCR. The expression of COX-2 protein was measured by Western-blot. Kanglaite injection could selectively decreased COX-2 mRNA expression and protein expression while COX-1 mRNA expression was unchanged. Kanglaite injection is selectively inhibitory agent of COX-2, and possess inhibitory effects on cyclooxygenase 2.
Adlay (Coix lachryma-jobi L. var. ma-yuen Stapf.) has long been used as a traditional Chinese medicine for dysfunctions of the endocrine system and inflammation conditions. However, the effect of adlay seed on the endocrine system has not yet been reported. In the present study, the effects and the mechanisms of methanolic extract of adlay bran (ABM) on progesterone synthesis in rat granulosa cell were studied. ABM was further partitioned with different solvents including water, 1-butanol, ethyl acetate and n-hexane. Four subfractions named ABM-Wa (water fraction), ABM-Bu (1-butanol fraction), ABM-EA (ethyl acetate fraction) and ABM-Hex (n-hexane fraction) were obtained. ABM-Bu was further fractionated using Diaion HP-20 resin column chromatography with gradient elution. Granulosa cells were prepared from pregnant mare serum gonadotropin-primed immature female rats and challenged with different reagents including human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG 0.5 IU/ml), forskolin (10 microM), 8-bromo-adenosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-Br-cAMP, 1 mM), A23187 (10 microM), phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA, 0.01 microM), 25-OH-cholesterol (0.1-10 microM) and pregnenolone (0.1-10 microM) in the presence or absence of ABM-Bu (100 microg/ml). The functions of steroidogenic enzyme including protein expression of the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) and cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage enzyme (P450scc) protein were investigated. Expressions of both P450scc and StAR mRNA have also been explored. We found that ABM decreased progesterone production via an inhibition on (1) the cAMP-PKA and PKC signal transduction pathway, (2) P450scc and 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD) enzyme activity, (3) P450scc and StAR protein and mRNA expressions and (4) the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 in rat granulosa cells.
The neutral lipid isolated from the endosperm of Job's tears (NLEJ) has been known to possess an anticancer activity with relatively low toxicity. The present study was designed to examine its antiproliferative effects in the PaTu-8988 and SW1990 human pancreatic cancer cells and to investigate its potential mechanism(s). Pancreatic cancer cells were treated with NLEJ to evaluate cell viability, cell cycle progression, nuclear morphology, DNA fragmentation and annexin V binding analysis. Regulation of gene expression was determined by using cDNA microarrays and western immunoblotting. The NLEJ induced a dose- and time-dependent inhibition of proliferation in both PaTu-8988 and SW1990 cell lines. Further studies were carried out with only the PaTu-8988 cells. Flow cytometry analysis showed that NLEJ blocked cell cycle progression at the G(2)/M phase. There was also an increase in annexin V binding and DNA fragmentation, indicative of apoptosis. The cDNA microarray analysis with cell cycle- and apoptosis-targeted arrays showed that the expression signals of 24 genes were found to be significantly altered at 24 h of NLEJ treatment. These genes are involved in cell cycle control (e.g. p21, p27, CDK2, and cyclins), apoptosis regulation (e.g. bcl-2 and bax), and signal transduction (e.g. ATM, RAD50, and p53). Some of these results were confirmed by western blot analysis. These data show that NLEJ inhibits pancreatic cancer cell growth through induction of apoptosis and cell cycle arrest as well as regulation of gene expression in vitro. Therefore, NLEJ might be a chemotherapeutic agent against pancreatic cancer.
Previous results demonstrated that the methanolic extract of adlay seed exerted an antiproliferative effect on human lung cancer cells in vitro and in vivo and might prevent tobacco carcinogen-induced lung tumorigenesis. In this study, the methanolic extract of adlay seed was tested for its regulation of COX-2 expression of human lung cancer cells. Western blot analysis showed that the methanolic extract of adlay seed inhibited basal and TPA-induced COX-2 expression in a dose-dependent fashion, whereas COX-1 expression was not affected. By using a promoter activity assay, it was found that the methanolic extract inhibited basal and TPA-stimulated COX-2 expression at the transcription level. The effect of the methanolic extract on COX-2 expression in vivo was then investigated. The data demonstrated that treatment of the methanolic extract reduced the PGE(2) level in serum and inhibited COX-2 expression of tumor tissues in nude mice. Taken together, these results suggest that inhibition of COX-2 is one of the mechanisms by which the methanolic extract of adlay seed inhibits cancer growth and prevents lung tumorigenesis.
During a study of mitochondrial sequence conservation between the liverwort Marchantia polymorpha and several Angiosperm species, as revealed by heterologous hybridization experiments, the trnS/pseudo-tRNA/nad3/rps12 gene cluster in Coix lacryma-jobi L., an Asian grass species from the Andropogoneae, was identified using the mitochondrial probe orf167 from M. polymorpha. The Coix gene cluster was cloned and sequenced, and its expression analyzed. The gene sequence and gene locus organization were found to be similar to the corresponding cluster in wheat and maize. Northern hybridization and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analyses indicated that nad3 and rps12 genes were co-transcribed as a 1.25 kb RNA molecule. The transcript displayed 20 and six RNA edition sites, in the nad3 and rps12 genes, respectively, that changed the codon identities to amino acids, which are better conserved in different organisms. Twenty-three cDNA clones were analysed for the edition process and revealed different partial editing patterns without apparent sequential processing.
Dihydrodipicolinate synthase (DHPS) is the main enzyme of a specific branch of the aspartate pathway leading to lysine biosynthesis in higher plants. We have cloned and characterized the DHPS-encoding Dap)A gene from the maize-related grass Coix lacryiana-jobi. The DapA open reading frame is interrupted by two introns and encodes the 326 amino acid-long Coix DHPS protein, which is 95% identical to the maize DHPS protein. Coix DNA gel blot analysis with maize DHPS cDNA as a probe showed a single strongly hybridizing band along with faint bands. RNA gel blot analysis showed that DHPS transcripts are present in coleoptiles, embryos, endosperms, and roots but are almost undetectable in blades of young leaves of both Coix and maize. The 5'-flanking region of the DapA gene contains a TGACTC GCN4-like element located 372 bp upstream the putative translation start codon. Steady-state levels of DHPS mRNA were slightly reduced in the endosperms and embryos of the maize lysine-rich opaque2 mutants when compared with those in normal kernels. Selective binding assay with the maize Opaque2 protein (O2) showed that the GCN4-like element is not an O2 binding site, suggesting that the DHPS gene is not under the control of O2.
Transient expression and electrophoretic mobility shift assay were used to investigate the cis elements and the DNA-binding proteins involved in the regulation of expression of a 22 kDa zein-like alpha-coixin gene. A set of unidirectional deletions was generated in a 962 bp fragment of the alpha-coixin promoter that had been previously fused to the reporter gene GUS. The constructs were assayed by transient expression in immature maize endosperm. There was no significant decrease in GUS activity as deletions progressed from -1084 to -238. However, deletion from -238 to -158, which partially deleted the O2c box, resulted in a dramatic decrease in GUS activity emphasizing the importance of the O2 box in the quantitative expression of the gene. The -238 promoter fragment interacted with Coix endosperm nuclear proteins to form 5 DNA-protein complexes, C1-C5, as detected by EMSA. The same retarded complexes were observed when the -158 promoter fragment was used in the binding reactions. Reactions with nuclear extracts isolated from Coix endosperms harvested from 6 to 35 days after pollination revealed that the 5 DNA-protein complexes that interact with the alpha-coixin promoter are differentially assembled during seed development. Deletion analysis carried out on the -238/ATG promoter fragment showed that a 35 bp region from -86 to -51 is essential for the formation of the complexes observed. When nuclear extracts were incubated with an antiserum raised against the maize Opaque-2 protein, the formation of 4 complexes, C1, C3, C4 and C5, was prevented indicating that an Opaque-2 like protein participates in the formation of those complexes. Complex C2 was not affected by the addition of the O2 antibody, suggesting the existence of a novel nuclear factor, CBF1, that binds to the promoter and makes protein-protein associations with other proteins present in Coix endosperm nuclei.
The maize Opaque2 (O2) protein is a basic leucine zipper transcription factor that controls the expression of distinct classes of endosperm genes through the recognition of different cis-acting elements in their promoters. The O2 target region in the promoter of the alpha-coixin gene was analyzed in detail and shown to comprise two closely adjacent binding sites, named O2u and O2d, which are related in sequence to the GCN4 binding site. Quantitative DNase footprint analysis indicated that O2 binding to alpha-coixin target sites is best described by a cooperative model. Transient expression assays showed that the two adjacent sites act synergistically. This synergy is mediated in part by cooperative DNA binding. In tobacco protoplasts, O2 binding at the O2u site is more important for enhancer activity than is binding at the O2d site, suggesting that the architecture of the O2-DNA complex is important for interaction with the transcriptional machinery.
The seed storage proteins of Coix, sorghum and maize are codified by homologous genes which are coordinately expressed in the endosperm in a temporal-specific fashion. Opaque2 (O2), a bZIP protein originally isolated from maize, has been described as a transcription activator of alpha- and beta-prolamin genes. The isolation and characterization of cDNA and genomic clones encoding the Opaque2 homologue from Coix are reported here. The coding region of the Coix O2 gene is interrupted by five introns and codifies a polypeptide of 408 amino acids. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with two different sequences of maize O2 protein showed that the Coix O2 protein is similar to the maize O2 isolated from W22 maize inbred line. The Coix O2 protein has the same binding specificity and expression pattern of the maize O2. The O2 proteins together with OHP1, OsBZIPPA, SPA, CPRF2 and RITA1 were assigned to one of the five bZIP plant families in an updated classification of plant bZIP according to bZIP domain similarity.
The expression of Brazil nut storage albumin genes is highly regulated during seed development. Several sequences in the promoter of one of these genes show homologies with the target sites of the maize O2 bZIP regulatory protein. We therefore asked whether the O2 protein would recognize these promoter sequences. We show that the O2 protein binds to three different sequences (F1, F2 and F3). F1 and F3 are hybrid C/G and A/G boxes, respectively, that are homologous to the O2-binding site of a maize alpha-zein gene. F2 is a new O2-binding sequence related to the O2 target sites of the Coix alpha-coxin, the maize b-32 genes and the AP-1 pseudopalindrome. Molecular modelling showed that an Asn and a Ser in the 02 DNA binding domain make different base-specific contacts with each operator. 5' Promoter deletions of the be2S1 gene showed that the domain containing the O2 target sites F1 and F2 is required for detectable reporter gene expression in transgenic tobacco seeds. Moreover, the homologous coix O2 protein was shown to in situ transactivate the promoter region encompassing the three O2-binding sites F1, F2 and F3. Thus, these sites may be in vivo regulatory sequences mediating activation by bZIP regulatory proteins.
The maize opaque 2 (o2) mutation is known to have numerous pleiotropic effects. Some polypeptides have their expression depressed while others are enhanced. The best characterized effects of the o2 mutation are those exerted on endosperm genes encoding the storage protein class of the 22 kDa alpha-zeins and the ribosome inactivating protein b-32. The Opaque 2 (O2) locus encodes a basic domain-leucine zipper DNA-binding factor, O2, which transcriptionally regulates these genes. In the maize-related grass Coix lacryma-jobi, an O2-homologous protein regulates the 25 kDa alpha-coixin family. We show in this paper that O2 transcriptionally regulates the structurally and developmentally different class of the beta-prolamins. A new O2-binding box was identified in beta-prolamin genes from maize and Coix that, together with the boxes previously identified in other endosperm expressed genes, forms a curious collection of O2 cis elements. This may have regulatory implications on the role of O2 in the mechanism that controls coordinated gene expression in the developing endosperm. Considering that the O2 locus controls at least three distinct classes of genes in maize endosperm, we propose that the O2 protein may play a more general role in maize endosperm development than previously conceived.
The maize Opaque2 (O2) protein is a "leucine zipper" DNA binding factor that interacts with the sequence TCCACGTAGA in the promoters of the 22-kD alpha-zein genes and activates its transcription. A completely different consensus sequence (GATGAPyPuTGPu) identified in b-32, a gene that encodes an abundant albumin that is also under control of the O2 locus, can also be bound by the O2 protein. We showed that the gene encoding the 22-kD-like alpha-coixin, the alpha-prolamin of the maize-related grass Coix, can also be transactivated by the O2 protein. A binding assay in vitro and footprint analysis demonstrated that the GACATGTC sequence of the alpha-coixin promoter can be recognized and protected by the maize O2 protein. Employing transient expression experiments in immature maize endosperm and tobacco mesophyll protoplasts, we demonstrated that the O2 protein can activate expression of the beta-glucuronidase reporter gene placed under the control of the 22-kD-like alpha-coixin promoter. We also demonstrated that a 22-kD-like alpha-coixin pseudogene promoter is transactivated by the maize O2 protein.
Several genomic and cDNA clones encoding the 22 kDa-like alpha-coixin, the alpha-prolamin of Coix seeds, were isolated and sequenced. Three contiguous 22 kDa-like alpha-coixin genes designated alpha-3A, alpha-3B and alpha-3C were found in the 15 kb alpha-3 genomic clone. The alpha-3A and alpha-3C genes presented in-frame stop codons at position +652. The two genes with truncated ORFs are flanking the alpha-3B gene, suggesting that the three alpha-coixin genes may have arisen by tandem duplication and that the stop codon was introduced before the duplication. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of alpha-coixin clones with the published sequences of 22 kDa alpha-zein and 22 kDa-like alpha-kafirin revealed a highly conserved protein structure. The protein consists of an N-terminus, containing the signal peptide, followed by ten highly conserved tandem repeats of 15-20 amino acids flanked by polyglutamines, and a short C-terminus. The difference between the 22 kDa-like alpha-prolamins and the 19 kDa alpha-zein lies in the fact that the 19 kDa protein is exactly one repeat motif shorter than the 22 kDa proteins. Several putative regulatory sequences common to the zein and kafirin genes were identified within both the 5' and 3' flanking regions of alpha-3B. Nucleotide sequences that match the consensus TATA, CATC and the ca. -300 prolamin box are present at conserved positions in alpha-3B relative to zein and kafirin genes. Two putative Opaque-2 boxes are present in alpha-3B that occupies approximately the same positions as those identified for the 22 kDa alpha-zein and alpha-kafirin genes. Southern hybridization, using a fragment of a maize Opaque-2 cDNA clone as a probe, confirmed the presence of Opaque-2 homologous sequences in the Coix and sorghum genomes. The overall results suggest that the structural and regulatory genes involved in the expression of the 22 kDa-like alpha-prolamin genes of Coix, sorghum and maize, originated from a common ancestor, and that variations were introduced in the structural and regulatory sequences after species separation.
Somatic chromosome elimination was identified and its patterns studied in a trisomic (2n=11) with marker genes in Coix aquatica Roxb. In a cross between a recessive trisomic with green base and white style (ccc ii ss) and a dominant disomic having purple base and purple style (CC II SS), all the F(1) seedling progeny were purple based because of the presence of C, I and S. For C. to be expressed in seedling base, either I should be absent or S should be present with I. In style colour, however, irrespective of the presence of I and S, C produces purple phenotype.In one trisomic (Ccc ii ss) plant (designated as 4-15) of the F(1) progeny, a part of the seedling base was green. All the tillers coming up from the green side of the main tiller also had green base, and those arising on the purple side were purple based. Similarly, the pistillate spikelets on the green side of the main culm and on the tillers with green base were white styled, and the male spikes showed 10 chromosomes. Female spikelets on the purple side of the main tiller and on the tillers with purple base were mostly purple styled and the male spikes had 11 chromosomes. In some of the purple based tillers, however, there were both 11 and 10 chromosomes in different regions or different inflorescence clusters on the tiller. In these tillers, where the chromosome number was 11, style colour was purple, and white style occurred when there were 10 chromosomes. In one tiller, the style colour was purple but the chromosome number was 10.The recessive phenotype of the style in the trisomic conceivably resulted from an elimination of the extra chromosome carrying the dominant allele C. On the basis of the morphological features of the extra chromosome, such as length, centromere position and distribution pattern of the hetero and eupycnotic regions, it was identified as chromosome No. 2 in the complement. It was therefore possible to place with certainty the gene c on this chromosome. Sometimes, however, the extra chromosome carrying c also was eliminated giving 10 chromosomes and purple style.In the other trisomic plants of the F(1) progeny, one plant showed 11 chromosomes but in a tiller there were only 10 chromosomes and white styles. In two other plants, although the chromosome number was 11 throughout, white style was present in a single cluster of inflorescences in one plant, and in one pistillate spikelet in the other. In the latter two cases, white style was believed to have arisen as a result of a mutation from C to c or somatic crossing over, giving the genotype ccc in the affected regions. In a single plant, chromosome elimination was observed in only one cell.Apparently the 10-chromosome sectors arose from the 11-chromosome condition by selective elimination of the extra chromosome during mitosis in the primordium giving rise to these sectors. In the affected plants, elimination did not obviously occur at the same stage but at different times in their ontogeny. Instability is probably governed by one or a few major genes, associated with a number of modifiers, exhibiting incomplete penetrance and variable expression. Chromosome elimination did not apparently follow any particular pattern but was erratic. Probably some intracellular environment is necessary to trigger the mechanism governing the elimination into action. The unstable system, occurring in combination with other favourable features like the functional nature of the aneuploid gametes, sexual reproduction, monoecious condition favouring cross pollination and tolerance of extra chromosomes by the sporophyte, could be an important factor in the cytogenetic evolution of the species.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is a traditional cereal crop cultivated in hilly, arid, cool mountainous regions. The bHLH transcription factors play a pivotal role in regulating flavonoid metabolism and enhancing resistance to extreme environments in Tartary buckwheat. However, the functional characterization of bHLH genes in this species remains incomplete. Previous research identified FtbHLH1 as an interacting partner of the key autophagy protein FtATG8a through yeast library screening. Yeast two-hybrid, bimolecular fluorescence complementation, and luciferase complementation imaging assays confirmed that FtbHLH1 interacts with FtATG8a. This interaction depends on the AIM motifs (LEWYYL and QSWHFV) present in FtbHLH1, with both proteins co-localizing in the nucleus. The expression of FtbHLH1 was significantly induced by drought stress (P < 0.05), and its overexpression led to increased drought tolerance in transgenic Tartary buckwheat hairy roots. RNA sequencing revealed that FtbHLH1 up-regulated genes associated with stress response (e.g., FtCu/ZnSOD) as well as those involved in abscisic acid and methyl jasmonate biosynthesis and signaling pathways (e.g., FtCYP707As, FtRD29B, and FtJAZs). Further analysis indicated that the overexpression of FtbHLH1 enhances drought stress tolerance by altering the activities of antioxidant enzymes and promoting proline accumulation in both transgenic Arabidopsis and Tartary buckwheat hairy roots. This study provides theoretical support for selecting drought-resistant Tartary buckwheat varieties by elucidating the role of FtbHLH1 in the response to drought stress.
The antidiabetic activity of the novel Buckwheat protein-derived peptide (Ala-Phe-Tyr-Arg-Trp, AFYRW) and its associated protein glycosylation have been verified. Our preliminary study demonstrates the potential of AFYRW as a therapeutic agent for diabetes, but the mechanism needs further investigation. Given the vital role of O-linked N-acetylglucosamine transferase (OGT) in diabetes mellitus and insulin resistance (IR), we focused on the underlying molecular mechanisms of them in ameliorating IR. We found AFYRW protects against hyperglycemia in diabetic mice and improves glucose metabolism in an IR cell model. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that AFYRW decreases glutamine-fructose-6-phosphate amidotransferase (GFAT) expression via X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1) in the hexosamine biosynthesis pathway (HBP), consequently decreasing OGT and stimulating the SIRT1/PGC1α pathway. Of note, the overlapping roles of increased SIRT1 and decreased OGT caused by AFYRW ameliorated IR. The data presented here show that AFYRW contributes to metabolism by directly controlling glucose homeostasis. Taken together, our study unveils that AFYRW protects against both insulin resistance and diabetes mellitus-induced hyperglycemia through OGT to regulate the SIRT1/PGC1α pathway, which provides a mechanistic basis for novel AFYRW to be a potential therapeutic agent.
Cadmium (Cd) can adversely damage plant growth. Therefore, understanding the control molecular mechanisms of Cd accumulation will benefit the development of strategies to reduce Cd accumulation in plants. This study performed transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses on the roots of a Cd-tolerant Tartary buckwheat cultivar following 0 h (CK), 6 h (T1), and 48 h (T2) of Cd treatment. The fresh weight and root length were not significantly inhibited under the T1 treatment but they were in the T2 treatment. The root's ultrastructure was seriously damaged in T2 but not in T1 treatment. This was evidenced by deformed cell walls, altered shape and number of organelles. A total of 449, 999 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and eight, 37 differentially expressed metabolites (DEMs) were identified in the CK versus T1 and CK versus T2 comparison, respectively. DEGs analysis found that the expression of genes related to cell wall function, glutathione (GSH) metabolism, and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis changed significantly during Cd stress. Several WRKY, MYB, ERF, and bHLH transcription factors and transporters also responded to Cd treatment. Our results indicate that Cd stress affects cell wall function and GSH metabolism and that changes in these pathways might contribute to mechanisms of Cd tolerance in Tartary buckwheat.
Tartary buckwheat is a nutrient-rich pseudo-cereal whose starch contents, including amylose and amylopectin contents, and their properties hold significant importance for enhancing yield and quality. The granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS) is a key enzyme responsible for the synthesis of amylose, directly determining the amylose content and amylose-to-amylopectin ratio in crops. Although one has already been cloned, the
Due to the totipotency of plant cells, which allows them to reprogram from a differentiated to a dedifferentiated state, plants exhibit a remarkable regenerative capacity, including under in vitro culture conditions. When exposed to plant hormones, primarily auxins and cytokinins, explant cells cultured in vitro can undergo differentiation through callus formation. Protoplast culture serves as a valuable research model for studying these processes in detail. This knowledge is particularly relevant for improving common and Tartary buckwheat species. To gain deeper insights into the stages of cell development from protoplasts-such as cell division, cell colony formation, and microcalli development-we focused on analyzing proteomes, cell wall composition, and changes in the expression profiles of selected genes in Fagopyrum protoplast cultures. The results demonstrate a significant accumulation of somatic embryogenesis-related proteins like late embryogenesis abundant proteins (embryogenic protein-DC-8-like, seed biotin-containing protein) and endochitinases during the developmental path of protoplast-derived cultures. Additionally, we noted an extensive increase in seed storage proteins like vicilin, oleosins, and seed biotin-containing proteins during the culture. Investigation of somatic embryogenesis-associated transcription factors revealed massive up-regulation of LEAFY COTYLEDON1 for the 50th day of F. tataricum protoplast-derived cultures. However, for BABY BOOM, the transcription factor was noted to be down-regulated during the development of cell colonies. Furthermore, we demonstrated the variable distribution of cell wall components like pectin side chains, arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs) and extensins (EXTs), indicating the reorganisation of cell wall composition during the culture period. This study revealed changes correlating with regaining embryogenic competence during the development of Fagopyrum protoplast-derived cell colonies. Our findings revealed variable expression levels of genes and proteins associated with somatic embryogenesis. This analysis identified an increase in seed storage proteins that play a significant role in the somatic somatic embryogenesis pathway of regeneration. Furthermore, the relationship between transcription factors and these processes seems to be connected with regaining somatic cells' totipotency and promoting embryogenic competence of protoplast-derived cell colonies. Additionally, we observed dynamic changes in cell wall composition during the development of the protoplast-derived cultures. Not applicable.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is an important crop used for edible food and medicinal usage. Drought annually brings reduction in crop yield and quality, causing enormous economic losses. Transcription factors are often involved in the regulation of plant responses to environmental stresses. In this study, we identified 233 MYB transcription factors in tartary buckwheat and classified them into 13 groups, including 1R, R2R3, 3R, 4R types. Gene structure and conserved motifs of these 233 FtMYBs suggested the relative conservation of these FtMYBs within each group. There is strong collinearity within the genomes of F. tataricum, with identifying syntenic gene pairs of FtMYB. Further, the expansion of FtMYB genes was attributed to whole genome duplication. The enrichment analysis of cis-acting elements in the FtMYB genes indicated that FtMYBs may participate in abiotic stress responses. The transcriptional changes of FtMYB genes in tartary buckwheat were then investigated using public data and qPCR. A number of FtMYB genes exhibited apparent transcript levels in the detected tissues and most of them disturbed their expression after the treatment of PEG6000 or natural treatment of tartary buckwheat seedlings. Some of the FtMYB genes showed a similar expression trend with qPCR validation. FtMYB gene FtPinG0005108900.01 were shown to activated by PEG6000 and natural drought treatment, and its encoded protein localizes to nucleus, revealing it as a typical transcription factor. Overexpression of FtPinG0005108900.01 increase the drought tolerance, and transcriptome analysis indicated that lignin synthesis other than flavonoid biosynthesis pathway was activated in the overexpressing plants following drought treatment. Our results provided detailed evolution and comparative genomic information of FtMYBs in tartary buckwheat and dissected the function of a FtMYB gene FtPinG0005108900.01 in response to drought.
The classic ABC model postulates how three classes of floral homeotic genes (A, B and C) work in a combinational way to confer organ identity to each whorl that make up a perfect flower in core eudicot plants. Fagopyrum esculentum (Polygonaceae) produces dimorphic flowers with single whorl showy tepals, representing a considerable difference with most core eudicots flowers. Here, we explain in detail the function of a duplicated pair of floral homeotic genes involved in the formation of tepals and stamens in the LH F. esculentum. FaesAP1_1 and FaesAP1_2 work together to specify tepal identity. FaesAP3_1/2 or FaesPI_1/2 have redundant function in specifying filament identity, while FaesAP3_2 and FaesPI_2 also retain a conserved role in specifying anther development and gain novel function in style length determination. However, FaesPI_1 gain novel function in floral color formation. In addition, FaesAG can directly regulate stamen and pistil development or binds to the CArG-box of pFaesPI_1 to indirectly regulate stamen and pistil development by a gene regulatory pathway involving FaesAP1_1/2, FaesAP3_1/2 and FaesPI_1/2. Moreover, FaesAP1_1/2 can directly or indirectly regulate B-class gene (FaesAP3_1/2 and FaesPI_1/2) expression to be involved in floral development. Our work has led to detailed insights into the MADS-box gene regulatory networks that control floral developmental process in LH F. esculentum.
The R2R3-MYB transcription factors (TFs) play a crucial role in regulating plant secondary metabolism and abiotic stress responses, yet they are still poorly understood in common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum), a valuable minor grain crop resource. In this study, a candidate gene, FeR2R3-MYB, was cloned from the anthocyanin-rich common buckwheat variety 'QZZTQ'. FeR2R3-MYB was found to contain two MYB DNA-binding domains and be located at the nucleus with transcriptional activation activity. Molecular analysis indicated that FeR2R3-MYB is predominantly expressed in flowering tissue and is highly responsive to environmental factors such as light, drought, and cold. In addition, the promoter of FeR2R3-MYB showed a positive correlation with fragment length. Further functional analysis suggested that FeR2R3-MYB not only participates in the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway by interacting with leucoanthocyanidin reductase (FeLAR), but also enhances drought tolerance in common buckwheat. To sum up, FeR2R3-MYB exhibits positive effects on both pigment production (e.g., anthocyanin) and abiotic stress resistance, providing valuable insights for future research in buckwheat molecular breeding and resource development.
(-)-Epicatechin (EC) is an active ingredient of Fagopyrum dibtrys (D. Don) Hara and can regulate lung cancer progression. However, the specific regulatory mechanism is poorly understood. This study explored the specific mechanism of EC in the treatment of lung cancer. H460 cells were injected subcutaneously into the left dorsal sides of nude mice to establish an animal model of lung cancer. H460 and H1299 cells and nude mice were treated with different concentrations of EC. The expression levels of related proteins were detected by Western blotting. Cell proliferation, migration, and invasion were detected by CCK-8, colony formation, and Transwell assays. Flow cytometry was used to detect the Ca2+ level in lung cancer cells. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of Ki-67 in tumor tissues. This study revealed that ferroptosis in lung cancer cells was inhibited during lung cancer development. EC treatment promotes ferroptosis, inhibits the proliferation, migration and invasion of lung cancer cells, and inhibits the formation of tumors in vivo. Ferroptosis inhibitors (Fer-1) weaken the effects of EC on lung cancer cells, whereas a ferroptosis inducer (erastin) further promotes the effects of EC. In addition, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is involved in the EC-induced ferroptosis of lung cancer cells, and treatment with GSK, an inhibitor of the ER stress protein PERK, can reverse the effect of EC. EC therapy activates the PERK-eIF2α-ATF4 signaling pathway to increase ER stress, thereby promoting ferroptosis in lung cancer cells and inhibiting the occurrence and development of lung cancer. Our research suggests that EC may become a drug candidate for treating lung cancer.
The prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is increasing, presenting a treatment challenge due to limited options. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and associated lipid metabolism disorders are main causes of NAFLD, making it important to inhibit ER stress for effective treatment. Fagopyrum dibotrys has hypolipidemic, anti-inflammatory and hepatoprotective properties, showing promise in treating NAFLD. However, its effects on ER stress in NAFLD remain unclear. This study used a high-fat diet (HFD) to establish NAFLD mouse models and supplemented with Fagopyrum dibotrys extract (FDE) to evaluate its therapeutic effect and underlying mechanisms. We showed that FDE supplementation reduced the severity of hepatic steatosis and lowered triglycerides (TG) and total cholesterol (TC) levels in NAFLD mice. At the molecular level, FDE supplementation reduced hepatic lipid deposition by downregulating lipogenic markers (SREBP-1c, SCD1) and upregulating fatty acid oxidase CPT1α expression. Additionally, FDE treatment inhibited the overexpression of ER stress markers (GRP78, CHOP, and P-EIF2α) in NAFLD mice livers, and blocked the activation of the PERK-EIF2α-CHOP pathway, demonstrating its role in maintaining ER homeostasis. Considering that activation of the PERK pathway could exacerbate lipid deposition, our findings suggest that FDE has a protective effect against hepatic steatosis in NAFLD mice by attenuating ER stress, and the potential mechanism is through inhibiting the PERK pathway.
The auxin response factor (ARF) is a plant-specific transcription factor that regulates the expression of auxin response genes by binding directly to their promoters. They play an important role in the regulation of plant growth and development, as well as in the response to biotic and abiotic stresses. However, the identification and functional analysis of ARFs in Fagopyrum dibotrys are still unclear. In this study, a total of 26 FdARF genes were identified using bioinformatic methods. Their chromosomal location, gene structure, physical and chemical properties of their encoded protein, subcellular location, phylogenetic tree, conserved motifs and cis-acting elements in FdARF promoters were analyzed. The results showed that 26 FdARF genes were unevenly distributed on 8 chromosomes, with the largest distribution on chromosome 4 and the least distribution on chromosome 3. Most FdARF proteins are located in the nucleus, except for the proteins FdARF7 and FdARF21 located to the cytoplasm and nucleus, while FdARF14, FdARF16, and FdARF25 proteins are located outside the chloroplast and nucleus. According to phylogenetic analysis, 26 FdARF genes were divided into 6 subgroups. Duplication analysis indicates that the expansion of the FdARF gene family was derived from segmental duplication rather than tandem duplication. The prediction based on cis-elements of the promoter showed that 26 FdARF genes were rich in multiple stress response elements, suggesting that FdARFs may be involved in the response to abiotic stress. Expression profiling analysis showed that most of the FdARF genes were expressed in the roots, stems, leaves, and tubers of F. dibotrys, but their expression exhibits a certain degree of tissue specificity. qRT-PCR analysis revealed that most members of the FdARF gene were up- or down-regulated in response to abiotic stress. The results of this study expand our understanding of the functional role of FdARFs in response to abiotic stress and lay a theoretical foundation for further exploration of other functions of FdARF genes.
The diversity of secondary metabolites is an important means for plants to cope with the complex and ever-changing terrestrial environment. Plant biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs) are crucial for the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites. The domestication and evolution of BGCs and how they affect plant secondary metabolites biosynthesis and environmental adaptation are still not fully understood. Buckwheat exhibits strong resistance and abundant secondary metabolites, especially flavonoids, allowing it to thrive in harsh environments. A non-canonical BGC named UFGT3 cluster is identified, which comprises a phosphorylase kinase (PAK), two transcription factors (MADS1/2), and a glycosyltransferase (UFGT3), forming a complete molecular regulatory module involved in flavonoid biosynthesis. This cluster is selected during Tartary buckwheat domestication and is widely present in species of the Fagopyrum genus. In wild relatives of cultivated buckwheat, a gene encoding anthocyanin glycosyltransferase (AGT), which glycosylates pelargonidin into pelargonidin-3-O-glucoside, is found inserted into this cluster. The pelargonidin-3-O-glucoside can help plants resist UV stress, endowing wild relatives with stronger high-altitude adaptability. This study provides a new research paradigm for the evolutionary dynamics of plant BGCs, and offers new perspectives for exploring the mechanism of plant ecological adaptability driven by environmental stress through the synthesis of secondary metabolites.
Patients may find it challenging to accept several FDA-approved drugs for Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatment due to their unaffordable prices and side effects. Despite the known antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and microbiota-regulating effects of common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) polysaccharides (FEP), their specific role in preventing AD has not been determined. Here, this study investigated the preventive effects of FEP on AD development in AlCl
Proper flower development is essential for plant reproduction, a crucial aspect of the plant life cycle. This process involves precisely coordinating transcription factors, enzymes, and epigenetic modifications. DNA methylation, a ubiquitous and heritable epigenetic mechanism, is pivotal in regulating gene expression and shaping chromatin structure. Fagopyrum esculentum demonstrates anti-hypertensive, anti-diabetic, anti-inflammatory, cardio-protective, hepato-protective, and neuroprotective properties. However, the heteromorphic heterostyly observed in F. esculentum poses a significant challenge in breeding efforts. F. tataricum has better resistance to high altitudes and harsh weather conditions such as drought, frost, UV-B radiation damage, and pests. Moreover, F. tataricum contains significantly higher levels of rutin and other phenolics, more flavonoids, and a balanced amino acid profile compared to common buckwheat, being recognised as functional food, rendering it an excellent candidate for functional food applications. This study aimed to compare the DNA methylation profiles between the Pin and Thrum flower components of F. esculentum, with those of self-fertile species of F. tataricum, to understand the potential role of this epigenetic mechanism in Fagopyrum floral development. Notably, F. tataricum flowers are smaller than those of F. esculentum (Pin and Thrum morphs). The decline in DNA methylation levels in the developed open flower components, such as petals, stigmas and ovules, was consistent across both species, except for the ovule in the Thrum morph. Conversely, Pin and Tartary ovules exhibited a minor decrease in DNA methylation levels. The highest DNA methylation level was observed in Pin stigma from closed flowers, and the most significant decrease was in Pin stigma from open flowers. In opposition, the nectaries of open flowers exhibited higher levels of DNA methylation than those of closed flowers. The decrease in DNA methylation might correspond with the downregulation of genes encoding methyltransferases. Reduced overall DNA methylation and the expression of genes associated with these epigenetic markers in fully opened flowers of both species may indicate that demethylation is necessary to activate the expression of genes involved in floral development.
The MADS-box gene family is a transcription factor family that is widely expressed in plants. It controls secondary metabolic processes in plants and encourages the development of tissues like roots and flowers. However, the phylogenetic analysis and evolutionary model of MADS-box genes in Fagopyrum species has not been reported yet. This study identified the MADS-box genes of three buckwheat species at the whole genome level, and conducted systematic evolution and physicochemical analysis. The results showed that these genes can be divided into four subfamilies, with fragment duplication being the main way for the gene family expansion. During the domestication process from golden buckwheat to tartary buckwheat and the common buckwheat, the Ka/Ks ratio indicated that most members of the family experienced strong purification selection pressure, and with individual gene pairs experiencing positive selection. In addition, we combined the expression profile data of the MADS genes, mGWAS data, and WGCNA data to mine genes FdMADS28/48/50 that may be related to flavonoid metabolism. The results also showed that overexpression of FdMADS28 could increase rutin content by decreasing Kaempferol pathway content in hairy roots, and increase the resistance and growth of hairy roots to PEG and NaCl. This study systematically analyzed the evolutionary relationship of MADS-box genes in the buckwheat species, and elaborated on the expression patterns of MADS genes in different tissues under biotic and abiotic stresses, laying an important theoretical foundation for further elucidating their role in flavonoid metabolism.
NAC transcription factors play a significant role in plant stress responses. In this study, an NAC transcription factor, with a CDS of 792 bp encoding 263 amino acids, was cloned from
Basic leucine zipper (bZIP) protein is a plant-specific transcription factor involved in various biological processes, including light signaling, seed maturation, flower development, cell elongation, seed accumulation protein, and abiotic and biological stress responses. However, little is known about the pea bZIP family. In this study, we identified 87 bZIP genes in pea, named PsbZIP1 ~ PsbZIP87, via homology analysis using Arabidopsis. The genes were divided into 12 subfamilies and distributed unevenly in 7 pea chromosomes. PsbZIPs in the same subfamily contained similar intron/exon organization and motif composition. 1 tandem repeat event and 12 segmental duplication events regulated the expansion of the PsbZIP gene family. To better understand the evolution of the PsbZIP gene family, we conducted collinearity analysis using Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa Japonica, Fagopyrum tataricum, Solanum lycopersicum, Vitis vinifera, and Brachypodium distachyon as the related species of pea. In addition, interactions between PsbZIP proteins and promoters containing hormone- and stress-responsive cis-acting elements suggest that the regulation of PsbZIP expression was complex. We also evaluated the expression patterns of bZIP genes in different tissues and at different fruit development stages, all while subjecting them to five hormonal treatments. These results provide a deeper understanding of PsbZIP gene family evolution and resources for the molecular breeding of pea. The findings suggested that PsbZIP genes, specifically PSbZIP49, play key roles in the development of peas and their response to various hormones.
Fagopyrum tataricum (L.) Gaertn is used as a folk medicine in many Asian countries due to its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and several other health-promoting properties. It is also prescribed to improve neurocognitive functions and alleviate inflammatory conditions. Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation plays a crucial role in neurodegenerative conditions. Hence, based on the ethnomedical claims and available literature, the present study investigated neuroprotective efficacy of a seed extract (ft-ext) of Fagopyrum tataricum against acrylamide (ACR)-induced neurotoxicity. The phytochemical characterization of ft-ext was performed by a high-performance liquid chromatography method. Molecular interactions of the identified compounds of ft-ext were studied using an in-silico docking tool. An in-vitro protein denaturation assay was done to check anti-inflammatory activity. The 5 days' post-fertilized zebrafish larvae were exposed to 1 mM and 2.5 mM ACR with or without ft-ext for 72 h to study its neuroprotective efficacy. Real-time polymerase chain reaction and western blotting studies were performed to analyse the oxidative stress-related gene and protein expressions respectively. The extract showed the presence of chlorogenic acid, rutin, caffeic acid, vitexin, syringic acid, quercetin, p-coumaric acid, kaempferol, and ferulic acid. In-vitro protein denaturation assay of ft-ext showed a potent anti-inflammatory effect. The ft-ext improved ACR-mediated locomotor deficit and reduced overall mortality in the larvae. The brain lipid peroxidation and protein carbonylation results revealed an elevated level of oxidative stress in the ACR-treated group, which was reduced in ft-ext-treated larvae. The extract treatment increased the expression of nrf2, gpx, and hmox1a, while simultaneously downregulated trxr2 levels in the brain of larvae exposed to ACR. The treatment also showed inactivation of Gsk-3β, thus maintaining a normal pool of Nrf2 and β-catenin. Molecular docking of identified compounds of ft-ext showed possible hydrogen and hydrophobic interactions with Gsk-3β. The ft-ext prevents ACR-mediated neurotoxicity by suppressing Gsk-3β mediated oxidative stress.
The regulation of the expression of genes related to abiotic stress in plants is significantly influenced by the binding of the transcription factor (TF) WRKY to the W-box elements in their promoters. The findings of this study have confirmed that the ability of Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) to tolerate phosphorus (P) deficiency is regulated by FtWRKY29, which is classified as a member of group II of the WRKY family. The roots predominantly exhibited an enhanced expression of FtWRKY29, which was significantly upregulated in response to low-P-induced stress. The W-box motif was bound to by FtWRKY29 which enhanced the transcription of genes and was localized to the nucleus. The overexpression of FtWRKY29 in Arabidopsis thaliana produced transgenic lines that exhibited phenotypes typical of diminished sensitivity to low-P-induced stress by promoting root growth, increasing P-uptake, and regulating the accumulation of anthocyanin. The low-P-responsive genes, PHT1;1, PHT1;4, and PHO1 were significantly up-regulated in these lines. In addition, the overexpression of FtWRKY29 restored the P-absorption ability of the wrky75 mutant to a certain extent. Moreover, the binding of FtWRKY29 to the promoter of PHT1;1 activated its expression in tobacco. It was also observed that FtWRKY29 interacts with AtMPK3, AtMPK6, FtMPK3, and FtMPK7. This study provides preliminary evidence that FtWRKY29 improved the tolerance of transgenic A. thaliana plants to low-P-induced stress and deepened the understanding of the regulatory mechanism behind the same in Tartary buckwheat.
Tartary buckwheat protein-derived peptide (Ala-Phe-Tyr-Arg-Trp, AFYRW) is a natural active peptide that hampers the atherosclerosis process, but the underlying role of AFYRW in angiogenesis remains unknown. Here, we present a system-based study to evaluate the effects of AFYRW on H
Buckwheat quercetin (QUE) was used as a dietary supplement to investigate the mechanism of QUE on the regulation of lipid metabolism and intestinal flora in hyperlipidemic rats. Here, using a high-fat diet-induced hyperlipidemia model, the intervention was carried out by gavage of QUE at doses of 50, 100, and 200 mg/kg. Serum lipid levels, liver biochemical parameters, and histopathologic changes in the liver and intestinal microorganisms were measured in rats by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, hematoxylin-eosin, and high-throughput sequencing, respectively. Our results found that QUE, at a dose of 200 mg/kg, significantly reduced body weight, liver index, and lipid levels in rats (P < 0.05); improved hepatic oxidative stress; and repaired liver injury. In addition, the upregulation of beneficial bacteria, such as christensenellaceae and Bifidobacterium, in the organism increased the content of short-chain fatty acids, thus interfering with intestinal pH and improving the intestinal environment, while downregulating the relative abundance of Proteobacteria and Eubacterium_coprostanoligenes_group, and regulating the overproduction of butyrate. The real-time fluorescence quantitative polymerase chain reaction results found that QUE inhibited the expression of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) mRNA content and blocked the activation of the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway, thus affecting the downregulation of lipid levels and restoring intestinal homeostasis. A QUE dose of 200 mg/kg may improve lipid levels and the composition of intestinal flora through the TLR4/NF-κB pathway, suggesting that proteobacteria and christensenellaceae abundance changes may be biomarkers of potential diseases.
Menopause is a natural aging process characterized by decreased levels of sex hormones in females. Deprivation of estrogen following menopause results in alterations of dendritic arborization of the neuron that leads to neurobehavioral complications. Hormone replacement therapy is in practice to manage postmenopausal conditions but is associated with a lot of adverse effects. In the present study, the efficacy of buckwheat tartary (Fagopyrum tataricum) whole seed extract was investigated against the neurobehavioral complication in middle-aged ovariectomized rats, which mimic the clinical postmenopausal condition. Hydroalcoholic extraction (80% ethanol) was done, and quantification of major marker compounds in the extract was performed using HPLC. Oral treatment of the extract following the critical window period rescued the reconsolidation process of spatial and recognition memory, as well as depression-like behavior. Gene expression analysis disclosed elevated oxidative stress and neuroinflammation that largely disturb the integrity of the blood-brain barrier in ovariectomized rats. Gfap and Pparγ expression also showed reactive astrogliosis in the rats subjected to ovariectomy. The extract treatment reverted the elevated oxidative stress, neuroinflammation and expression of the studied genes. Furthermore, protein expression analysis revealed that Gsk-3β was activated differentially in the brain, as suggested by β-catenin protein expression, which was normalized following the treatment with extract and rescued the altered neurobehavioral process. The results of the current study concluded that Fagopyrum tataricum seed extract is better option to overcome the neurobehavioral complications associated with the menopause.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Garetn.), a dicotyledonous herbaceous crop, has good adaptation to low nitrogen (LN) condition. The plasticity of roots drives the adaption of Tartary buckwheat under LN, but the detailed mechanism behind the response of TB roots to LN remains unclear. In this study, the molecular mechanism of two Tartary buckwheat genotypes' roots with contrasting sensitivity in response to LN was investigated by integrating physiological, transcriptome and whole-genome re-sequencing analysis. LN improved primary and lateral root growth of LN-sensitive genotype, whereas the roots of LN-insensitive genotype showed no response to LN. 2, 661 LN-responsive differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by transcriptome analysis. Of these genes, 17 N transport and assimilation-related and 29 hormone biosynthesis and signaling genes showed response to LN, and they may play important role in Tartary buckwheat root development under LN. The flavonoid biosynthetic genes' expression was improved by LN, and their transcriptional regulations mediated by MYB and bHLH were analyzed. 78 transcription factors, 124 small secreted peptides and 38 receptor-like protein kinases encoding genes involved in LN response. 438 genes were differentially expressed between LN-sensitive and LN-insensitive genotypes by comparing their transcriptome, including 176 LN-responsive DEGs. Furthermore, nine key LN-responsive genes with sequence variation were identified, including FtNRT2.4, FtNPF2.6 and FtMYB1R1. This paper provided useful information on the response and adaptation of Tartary buckwheat root to LN, and the candidate genes for breeding Tartary buckwheat with high N use efficiency were identified.
The PLATZ family is a novel class of plant-specific zinc finger transcription factors with important roles in plant growth and development and abiotic stress responses. PLATZ members have been identified in many plants, including
The objective of this study was to evaluate protective effects of Fagopyrum dibotrys on antioxidant ability, intestinal barrier functions, and cecal microbiota in broiler chickens fed oxidized soybean oil. A total of 640 male Tiejiaoma broilers were randomly assigned to 8 treatments with 8 cages (10 birds per cage), as follows: birds fed basal diets containing fresh soybean oil and 0, 0.5, 1, or 2% F. dibotrys (FSCON, FSFAL, FSFAM, and FSFAH, respectively), and birds fed basal diets containing oxidized oil and 0, 0.5, 1, or 2% F. dibotrys (OSCON, OSFAL, OSFAM, and OSFAH). Oxidized oil significantly decreased transcription of Nrf2 and its downstream genes, including CAT and SOD1 in the jejunal mucosa, increased jejunal mucosa IL-6 mRNA expression, and decreased jejunal mucosa IL-22 mRNA expression and downregulated Claudin-1 and ZO-1; however, all these effects were reversed by F. dibotrys. Either 1 or 2% F. dibotrys alleviated the decreased liver SOD induced by oxidized oil on d 42. The decreased SOD and GPX, and increased MDA induced by oxidized oil were reversed by adding 1 or 2% F. dibotrys in jejunal mucosa. In addition, based on 16S rDNA, 2% F. dibotrys promoted the Firmicutes phylum and Candidatus_Arthromitus genera, but suppressed the Proteobacteria phylum and Streptococcus, Enterococcus, and Escherichia genera. In summary, oxidative stress induced by oxidized oil was ameliorated by F. dibotrys upregulating transcription of Nrf2 and its downstream genes to restore redox balance, reinforcing the intestinal barrier via higher expression of Claudin-1/ZO-1, ameliorating the inflammatory response by regulating expression of IL-6 and IL-22, and facilitating growth of Candidatus_arthromitus in the cecum. Therefore, F. dibotrys has potential as a feed additive for poultry by ameliorating oxidative stress caused by oxidized oil, enhancing barrier function, and improving gut microbiome composition.
This paper aimed to investigate the effect of total flavonoids of buckwheat flower and leaf on myocardial cell apoptosis and Wnt/β-catenin/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ(PPARγ) pathway in arrhythmic rats. SD rats were randomly divided into a control group, a model group, a low-dose(20 mg·kg~(-1)) group of total flavonoids of buckwheat flower and leaf, a medium-dose(40 mg·kg~(-1)) group of total flavonoids of buckwheat flower and leaf, a high-dose(80 mg·kg~(-1)) group of total flavonoids of buckwheat flower and leaf, a propranolol hydrochloride(2 mg·kg~(-1)) group, with 12 rats in each group. Except the control group, rats in other groups were prepared as models of arrhythmia by sublingual injection of 1 mL·kg~(-1) of 0.002% aconitine. After grouping and intervention with drugs, the arrhythmia, myocardial cells apoptosis, myocardial tissue glutathione peroxidase(GSH-Px), catalase(CAT), malondialdehyde(MDA), serum interleukin-6(IL-6), prostaglandin E2(PGE2) levels, myocardial tissue apoptosis, and Wnt/β-catenin/PPARγ pathway-related protein expression of rats in each group were measured. As compared with the control group, the arrhythmia score, the number of ventricular premature beats, ventricular fibrillation duration, myocardial cell apoptosis rate, MDA levels in myocardial tissues, serum IL-6 and PGE2 levels, Bax in myocardial tissues, and Wnt1 and β-catenin protein expression levels increased significantly in the model group, whereas the GSH-Px and CAT levels, and Bcl-2 and PPARγ protein expression levels in myocardial tissues reduced significantly. As compared with the model group, the arrhythmia score, the number of ventricular premature beats, ventricular fibrillation duration, myocardial cell apoptosis rate, MDA leve in myocardial tissues, serum IL-6 and PGE2 levels, Bax in myocardial tissues, and Wnt1 and β-catenin protein expression levels reduced in the drug intervention groups, whereas the GSH-Px and CAT levels and Bcl-2 and PPARγ protein expression levels in myocardial tissues increased. The groups of total flavonoids of buckwheat flower and leaf were in a dose-dependent manner. There was no significant difference in the levels of each index in rats between the propranolol hydrochloride group and the high-dose group of total flavonoids of buckwheat flower and leaf. The total flavonoids of buckwheat flower and leaf inhibit the activation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway, up-regulate the expression of PPARγ, reduce oxidative stress and inflammatory damage in myocardial tissues of arrhythmic rats, reduce myocardial cell apoptosis, and improve the symptoms of arrhythmia in rats.
Grain size with high heritability and stability is an important selection target during Tartary buckwheat breeding. However, the mechanisms that regulate Tartary buckwheat grain development are unknown. We generated transcriptome and metabolome sequencing from 10 and 15 days past anthesis (DPA) grains of big grain mutant (
Tartary buckwheat is rich in flavonoids, which not only play an important role in the plant-environment interaction, but are also beneficial to human health. Rutin is a therapeutic flavonol which is massively accumulated in Tartary buckwheat. It has been demonstrated that transcription factors control rutin biosynthesis. However, the transcriptional regulatory network of rutin is not fully clear. In this study, through transcriptome and target metabolomics, we validated the role of FtMYB102 and FtbHLH4 TFs at the different developmental stages of Tartary buckwheat. The elevated accumulation of rutin in the sprout appears to be closely associated with the expression of FtMYB102 and FtbHLH4. Yeast two-hybrid, transient luciferase activity and co-immunoprecipitation demonstrated that FtMYB102 and FtbHLH4 can interact and form a transcriptional complex. Moreover, yeast one-hybrid showed that both FtMYB102 and FtbHLH4 directly bind to the promoter of chalcone isomerase (CHI), and they can coordinately induce CHI expression as shown by transient luciferase activity assay. Finally, we transferred FtMYB102 and FtbHLH4 into the hairy roots of Tartary buckwheat and found that they both can promote the accumulation of rutin. Our results indicate that FtMYB102 and FtbHLH4 can form a transcriptional complex by inducing CHI expression to coordinately promote the accumulation of rutin.
Abiotic stresses such as drought and salinity are major environmental factors limiting plant productivity. Autophagy-related genes are extensively involved in plant growth, development, and adverse stress responses, which have not yet been characterized in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum, TB). In this study, we verified that drought stress could induce autophagy in TB roots. Next, 49 FtATGs in the whole genome of TB were identified. All FtATGs were randomly distributed in 8 known chromosomes, while 11 FtATGs were predictably segmental repeats. As the core component of autophagy, there were 8 FtATG8s with similar gene structures in TB, while FtATG8s showed high expression at the transcription level under drought and salt stresses. The cis-acting element analysis identified that all FtATG8 promoters contain light-responsive and MYB-binding elements. FtATG8s showed a cell-wide protein interaction network and strongly correlated with distinct stress-associated transcription factors. Furthermore, overexpression of FtATG8a and FtATG8f enhanced the antioxidant enzyme activities of TB under adverse stresses. Remarkably, FtATG8a and FtATG8f may be vital candidates functioning in stress resistance in TB. This study prominently aids in understanding the biological role of FtATG genes in TB.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) is a coarse cereal with strongly abiotic resistance. The MYB family plays a regulatory role in plant growth, development, and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. However, the characteristics and regulatory mechanisms of MYB transcription factors in Tartary buckwheat remain unclarified. Here, this study cloned the FtMYB22 gene from Tartary buckwheat, and investigated its involvement in responding to individual water deficit and salt stress in Arabidopsis. Sequence analysis highlighted that the N-termini of FtMYB22 contained two highly conserved SANT domains and one conserved domain from the SG20 subfamily. Nucleus-localized FtMYB22 did not have individual transcriptional activation activity. Water deficiency and salt stress induced the high expression of the GUS gene, which was driven by the promoter of FtMYB22. Yeast stress experiments showed that the overexpression of FtMYB22 significantly reduced the growth activity of transgenic yeast under water deficit or salt stress. Consistently, the overexpression of FtMYB22 reduced the salt and water deficit stress resistance of the transgenic plants. In addition, physiological parameters showed that transgenic plants had lower proline and antioxidant enzyme activity under stress conditions. Compared to the wild-type (WT), transgenic plants accumulated more malondialdehyde (MDA), H2O2, and O2−; they also showed higher ion permeability and water loss rates of detached leaves under stress treatments. Notably, FtMYB22 was involved in plant stress resistance through an ABA-dependent pathway. Under stress conditions, the expression of RD29A, RD29B, PP2CA, KIN1, COR15A, and other genes in response to plant stress in transgenic lines was significantly lower than that in the WT (p < 0.05). Furthermore, yeast two-hybrid assay showed that there was a significant interaction between FtMYB22 and the ABA receptor protein RCAR1/2, which functioned in the ABA signal pathway. Altogether, FtMYB22, as a negative regulator, inhibited a variety of physiological and biochemical reactions, affected gene expression and stomatal closure in transgenic plants through the ABA-dependent pathway, and reduced the tolerance of transgenic Arabidopsis to water deficiency and salt stress. Based on these fundamental verifications, further studies would shed light on the hormone signal response mechanism of FtMYB22.
R2R3-MYB transcription factors play important roles in response to abiotic stresses in planta, such as salt, drought, and osmotic stress. However, the role of FtMYB11 in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) in drought and osmotic tolerance has not yet been elucidated. In this study, we found that FtMYB11 was markedly induced by exogenous abscisic acid (ABA), salinity, and mannitol. Further, FtMYB11-overexpressing Arabidopsis showed hypersensitivity to ABA-mediated seed germination and seedling establishment through regulating transcripts of AtCBF1, AtDREB2A, and AtRD20, compared with wild type, indicating that FtMYB11 plays a positive role in ABA signaling. In contrast, transgenic lines overexpressing FtMYB11 were sensitive to mannitol and NaCl treatments, suggesting that FtMYB11 plays a negative role in osmotic tolerance. Intriguingly, the transcripts of ABA biosynthetic enzyme genes were significantly elevated in plants overexpressing FtMYB11 after exposure to osmotic stresses, such as AtABA3 and AtNCED3. In addition, flavonoid biosynthesis genes were also upregulated in transgenic Arabidopsis under ABA, salt, and drought treatments, including AtC4H, AtF3H, AtANS, AtFLS, and At4CL. The drought tolerance assay showed that plants overexpressing FtMYB11 displayed greater tolerance to water deficit through regulating MDA and proline content. Taken together, FtMYB11 has opposite roles in response to abiotic stresses, but it may mediate flavonoid biosynthesis through regulation of related enzyme genes.
The identification downstream genes of floral organ identity regulators are critical to revealing the molecular mechanisms underlying floral morphogenesis. However, a general regulatory pathway between floral organ identity genes and their downstream targets is still unclear because of the lack of studies in nonmodel species. Here, we screened a direct downstream target gene,
GATA is a transcription factor that exerts a vital function in plant growth and development, physiological metabolism, and environmental responses. However, the
Tartary buckwheat [Fagopyrum tataricum (L.) Gaertn.] is a pseudocereal with strongly abiotic resistance. NACs, one of the largest plant-specific transcription factors (TFs), are involved in various stress responses. However, the characteristics and regulatory mechanisms of NAC TFs remain unclarified clearly in Tartary buckwheat (TB). In this study, it validated that salt, drought, and abscisic acid (ABA) stress significantly up-regulated the expression of NAC TF gene FtNAC31. Its coding protein has a C-terminal transactivated domain and localized in the nucleus, suggesting that FtNAC31 might play a transcriptional activation role in TB. Notably, overexpression of FtNAC31 lowered the seed germination rate upon ABA treatment and enhanced the tolerance to salt and drought stress in transgenetic Arabidopsis. Furthermore, under various stresses, the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), peroxidase (POD), and catalase (CAT) in FtNAC31 overexpressed lines exhibited a sharp increase trend. Meanwhile, the expression levels of several stress-associated genes including RD29A, RD29B, RD22, DREB2B, NCED3, and POD1, were dramatically upregulated in lines overexpressing FtNAC31. Altogether, overproduction of FtNAC31 could enhance the resistance to salt and drought stresses in transgenic Arabidopsis, which most likely functioned in an ABA-dependent way.
Drought and high salinity affect plant growth, development, yield, and quality. MYB transcription factors (TFs) in plants play an indispensable regulatory role in resisting adverse stress. In this study, screening and functional validation of the TF FtMYB30, which can respond extensively to abiotic stress and abscisic acid (ABA), was achieved in Tartary buckwheat. FtMYB30, one of the SG22 (sub-group 22) family of R2R3-MYB TFs, localized in the nucleus and had transcriptional activation activity. Under drought and salt stress, FtMYB30 overexpression reduced the oxidative damage in transgenic plants by increasing the activity of proline content and antioxidant enzymes and significantly upregulate the expression of RD29A, RD29B, and Cu/ZnSOD, thereby enhancing drought/salt tolerance in transgenic Arabidopsis. Additionally, overexpression of FtMYB30 can reduce the sensitivity of transgenic plants to ABA. Moreover, AtRCAR1/2/3 and AtMPK6 directly interact with the FtMYB30 TF, possibly through the crosstalk between MAPKs (mitogen-activated protein kinases) and the ABA signaling pathway. Taken together, these results suggest that FtMYB30, as a positive regulator, mediates plant tolerance to salt and drought through an ABA-dependent signaling pathway.
Tartary buckwheat is highly attractive for the richness of nutrients and quality, yet post-embryonic seed abortion greatly halts the yield. Seed development is crucial for determining grain yield, whereas the molecular basis and regulatory network of Tartary buckwheat seed development and filling is not well understood at present. Here, we assessed the transcriptional dynamics of filling stage Tartary buckwheat seeds at three developmental stages by RNA sequencing. Among the 4249 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), genes related to seed development were identified. Specifically, 88 phytohormone biosynthesis signaling genes, 309 TFs, and 16 expansin genes participating in cell enlargement, 37 structural genes involved in starch biosynthesis represented significant variation and were candidate key seed development genes.
Flowering is a critical physiological change that interferes with not only biomass yield but also secondary metabolism, such as the biosynthesis of flavonoids, in rhizome/root plants. The continuous inflorescence removal (CIR) treatment is frequently conducted to weaken this effect. Fagopyrum dibotrys (D.Don) H.Hara (Golden buckwheat) is a kind of rhizome medicinal plant rich in flavonoids and is widely used for the treatment of lung diseases. The CIR treatment is usually conducted in F. dibotrys because of its excessive reproductive growth. To uncover the molecular mechanisms, comprehensive analysis was performed using metabolome and transcriptome data obtained from normally bloomed and the CIR treated plants. Metabolome results demonstrated that in the rhizomes of F. dibotrys, its bioactive compound called epicatechin has higher amount than most of the detected precursors. Compared with the normally bloomed plants, the level of epicatechin in the rhizomes of the CIR group increased by 25% at the withering stage. Based on 96 samples of the control and the CIR groups at 4 flowering stages for 4 tissues, RNA-Seq results revealed a 3 ~ 5 times upregulations of all the key enzyme genes involved in the biosynthesis of epicatechin in both time (from the bud stage to the withering stage) and spatial dimensions (from the top of branch to rhizome) under the CIR treatment compared to normal flowering. Integrated analysis of LC-MS/MS and transcriptome revealed the key roles of several key enzyme genes besides anthocyanidin reductase (ANR). A total of 93 transcription factors were identified to co-expressed with the genes in epicatechin biosynthetic pathway. The flowering activator SQUAMOSA promoter-binding protein like (SPLs) exhibited opposite spatiotemporal expression patterns to that of the epicatechin pathway genes; SPL3 could significantly co-express with all the key enzyme genes rather than the flowering repressor DELLA. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) further confirmed the correlations among chalcone synthases (CHSs), chalcone isomerases (CHIs), ANRs, SPLs and other transcription factors. SPL3 might dominantly mediate the effect of normal flowering and the CIR treatment on the biosynthesis of epicatechin in rhizomes mainly through the negative regulations of its key enzyme genes including CHS, CHI and ANR.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade is a highly conserved signal transduction pathway, ubiquitous in eukaryotes, such as animals and plants. The MAPK cascade has a dominant role in regulating plant adaptation to the environment, such as through stress responses, osmotic adjustment, and processes that modulate pathogenicity. In the present study, the MAPK cascade gene family was identified in
As transcription factors, the TCP genes are considered to be promising targets for crop enhancement for their responses to abiotic stresses. However, information on the systematic characterization and functional expression profiles under abiotic stress of TCPs in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum (L.) Gaertn.) is limited. In this study, we identified 26 FtTCPs and named them according to their position on the chromosomes. Phylogenetic tree, gene structure, duplication events, and cis-acting elements were further studied and syntenic analysis was conducted to explore the bioinformatic traits of the FtTCP gene family. Subsequently, 12 FtTCP genes were selected for expression analysis under cold, dark, heat, salt, UV, and waterlogging (WL) treatments by qRT-PCR. The spatio-temporal specificity, correlation analysis of gene expression levels and interaction network prediction revealed the potential function of FtTCP15 and FtTCP18 in response to abiotic stresses. Moreover, subcellular localization confirmed that FtTCP15 and FtTCP18 localized in the nucleus function as transcription factors. In this research, 26 TCP genes were identified in Tartary buckwheat, and their structures and functions have been systematically explored. Our results reveal that the FtTCP15 and FtTCP18 have special cis-elements in response to abiotic stress and conserved nature in evolution, indicating they could be promising candidates for further functional verification under multiple abiotic stresses.
Buckwheat accumulates abundant flavonoids, which exhibit excellent health-promoting value. Flavonoids biosynthesis is mediated by a variety of phytohormones, among which jasmonates (JAs) induce numerous transcription factors, taking part in regulation of flavonoids biosynthesis genes. However, some transcriptional repressors appeared also induced by JAs. How these transcriptional repressors coordinately participate in JA signaling remains unclear. Here, we found that the disruption of the GCC-box in FtF3H promoter was associated with flavonoids accumulation in Tartary buckwheat. Further, our study illustrated that the nucleus-localized FtERF-EAR3 could inhibit FtF3H expression and flavonoids biosynthesis through binding the GCC-box in the promoter of FtF3H. The JA induced FtERF-EAR3 gene expression while facilitating FtERF-EAR3 protein degradation via the FtBPM3-dependent 26S proteasome pathway. Overall, these results illustrate a precise modulation mechanism of JA-responsive transcription suppressor participating in flavonoid biosynthesis, and will further help to improve the efficiency of flavonoids biosynthesis in Tartary buckwheat.
The reactive dicarbonyl methylglyoxal (MG) behaves as a pro-oxidant agent, causing redox dysfunction and cell death by different mechanisms in mammalian cells. MG is also a mitochondrial toxicant, impairing the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) system and leading to bioenergetics and redox collapses. MG induces glycation and exerts an important role in neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases. Isoorientin (ISO), a C-glucosyl flavone found in Aspalathus linearis, Fagopyrum esculentum, and Passiflora edulis, among others, is an antioxidant and anti-inflammatory molecule. ISO is a potent inducer of the transcription factor nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), the master modulator of the redox environment in mammals. We investigated here whether ISO would prevent the mitochondria-related redox and bioenergetics impairments induced by MG in the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. The cells were administrated with ISO at 20 μM for 18 h prior to the exposure to MG at 500 μM for further 24 h. It was observed that ISO efficiently prevented the mitochondrial impairments caused by MG. ISO upregulated the activity of the enzyme γ-glutamate-cysteine ligase (γ-GCL), consequently stimulating the synthesis of glutathione (GSH). The inhibition of γ-GCL, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), and phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt (PI3K/Akt) suppressed the beneficial effects induced by ISO on the MG-challenged cells. Moreover, silencing of Nrf2 blocked the ISO-dependent γ-GCL and GSH upregulation and the effects on the mitochondria of the MG-challenged cells. Then, ISO caused mitochondrial protection by an AMPK-PI3K/Akt/Nrf2/γ-GCL/GSH-dependent manner in MG-administrated SH-SY5Y cells.
The nuclear factor Y (NF-Y) is an important transcription factor family that regulates plant developmental processes and abiotic stress responses. Currently, genome-wide studies of the NF-Y family are limited in Fagopyrum tataricum, an important economic crop. Based on the released genome assembly, we predicted a total of 38 NF-Y encoding genes (FtNF-Ys), including 12 FtNF-YAs, 18 FtNF-YBs, and eight FtNF-YCs subunits, in F. tataricum. Phylogenetic tree and sequence alignments showed that FtNF-Ys were conserved between F. tataricum and other species. Tissue expressions and network analyses suggested that FtNF-Ys might be involved in regulating developmental processes in different tissues. Several FtNF-YAs and FtNF-Ybs were also potentially involved in light response. In addition, FtNF-YC-like1 and FtNF-YC-like2 partially rescued the late flowering phenotype in nf-yc1 nf-yc3 nf-yc4 nf-yc9 (ycQ) mutant in Arabidopsis thaliana, supporting a conserved role of FtNF-Ys in regulating developmental processes. Together, the genomic information provides a comprehensive understanding of the NF-Y transcription factors in F. tataricum, which will be useful for further investigation of their functions in F. tataricum.
Anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins (PAs) are vital secondary metabolites in Tartary buckwheat because of their antioxidant capacities and radical scavenging functions. It has been demonstrated that R2R3-MYB transcription factors (TFs) are essential regulators of anthocyanin and PA biosynthesis in many plants. However, their regulatory mechanisms in Tartary buckwheat remain to be clarified. Here, we confirmed the role of FtMYB3 in anthocyanin and PA biosynthesis. FtMYB3, which belongs to the subgroup 4 R2R3 family was predominantly expressed in roots. The transcriptional expression of FtMYB3 increased significantly under hormone treatment with SA and MeJA and abiotic stresses including drought, salt, and cold at the seedling stage. Functional analyses showed that FtMYB3 negatively regulated anthocyanin and PA biosynthesis, primarily via downregulating the expression of the
Chronic inflammation remains an essential complication in the pathogenesis and aggravation of metabolic diseases. There is a growing interest in the use of medicinal plants or food-derived bioactive compounds for their antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties to improve metabolic function. For example, rutin, a flavonol derivative of quercetin that is found in several medicinal plants and food sources has displayed therapeutic benefits against diverse metabolic diseases. Here, we searched the major electronic databases and search engines such as PubMed/MEDLINE, Scopus and Google Scholar to systematically extract and critically discuss evidence reporting on the impact of rutin against metabolic diseases by affecting inflammation. In fact, available preclinical evidence suggests that rutin, through its strong antioxidant properties, can effectively ameliorate inflammation by reducing the levels of pro-inflammatory markers such as tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin (IL)-6, cyclooxygenase-2, IL-1β, as well as blocking nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation to improve metabolic function. Notably, although clinical data on the impact of rutin on inflammation is limited, food-derived sources rich in this flavonol such as Fagopyrum tataricum, Coffea arabica and Aspalathus linearis (rooibos) have shown promise in improving metabolic function, in part by reducing markers of oxidative stress and inflammation. However, additional studies are still required to confirm the therapeutic properties of rutin in a clinical setting, including the enhancement of it low bioavailability profile.
Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) plays essential roles in the development, hormone regulation and abiotic stress response of plants. Nevertheless, a comprehensive study on MAPK family members has thus far not been performed in Tartary buckwheat. Here, we identified 16 FtMAPKs in the Fagopyrum tataricum genome. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the FtMAPK family members could be classified into Groups A, B, C and D, in which A, B and C members contain a Thr-Glu-Tyr (TEY) signature motif and Group D members contain a Thr-Asp-Tyr (TDY) signature motif. Promoter cis-acting elements showed that most Pro A total of 16 MAPKs were identified in Tartary buckwheat, and the members of the MAPK family containing the TDY motif were found to have expanded. The same subfamily members have relatively conserved gene structures and similar protein motifs. Tissue-specific expression indicated that the expression of all FtMAPK genes varied widely in the roots, stems, leaves and flowers. Most FtMAPKs can regulate the expression of other transcription factors and participate in the abiotic stress response. Our findings comprehensively revealed the FtMAPK gene family and laid a theoretical foundation for the functional characterization of FtMAPKs.
Nuclear factor Y (NF-Y) is a heterotrimeric transcription factor playing crucial roles in various biological process in plant. However, thorough research on NF-Y gene family of Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is little. In this study, 38 FtNF-Y genes (12 FtNF-YAs, 17 FtNF-YBs, and 9 FtNF-YCs) were identified and renamed on the basis of their subfamily and chromosomal location. Their gene structure, genomic mapping, motif composition, conserved domain, phylogenetic relationships, cis-acting elements and gene expression were investigated. Illustration of gene structures and conserved domains of FtNF-Ys revealed their functional conservation and specificity. Construction of phylogenetic trees of NF-Ys in Tartary buckwheat, Arabidopsis, tomato, rice and banana, allowed us to predict functional similarities among NF-Ys from different species. Gene expression analysis displayed that twenty-four FtNF-Ys were expressed in all the tissues and the transcript levels of them were different, suggesting their function varieties. Moreover, expression profiles of twenty FtNF-Ys along five different fruit development stages acquired by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) demonstrated distinct abundance diversity at different stages, providing some clues of potential fruit development regulators. Our study could provide helpful reference information for further function characterization of FtNF-Ys and for the fruit quality enhancement of Tartary buckwheat.
Tartary buckwheat is a kind of plant which can be used as medicine as well as edible. Abscisic acid (ABA) signaling plays an important role in the response of plants such as tartary buckwheat to drought and other stress. However, there are not many studies on tartary buckwheat by ABA treatment. In this study, the germination, root length, stoma, and anthocyanin accumulation of tartary buckwheat were all significantly affected by ABA. ABA signaling is important for plants to respond to drought and other stresses, the bZIP gene family is an important member of the ABA signaling pathway. Through the analysis of the origin relationship between tartary buckwheat bZIP family and its related species, 19 bZIP genes in tartary buckwheat were found to be relatively conserved, which laid a foundation for further study of bZIP family. The qRT-PCR results showed that most of the group members were induced by ABA treatment, including 0, 15, 30, 50, 70 µM ABA and 0, 0.5, 2, 4, 8, 16, 24 h ABA treatment. These results suggested that ABA could affect the growth and development of tartary buckwheat, and FtbZIPs might have different functions in the response of tartary buckwheat to drought. This study will be helpful to further analyze the genetic breeding and economic value of tartary buckwheat resistance.
Tartary buckwheat is a nutritious pseudo-cereal crop that is resistant to abiotic stresses, such as drought. However, the buckwheat's mechanisms for responding to drought stress remains unknown. We investigated the changes in physiology and gene expression under drought stress, which was simulated by treatment with polyethylene glycol (PEG). Five physiological indexes, namely MDA content, H
Key enzymes play a vital role in plant growth and development. However, the evolutionary relationships between genes encoding key enzymes in the metabolic pathway of Tartary buckwheat flavonoids are poorly understood. Based on the published Tartary buckwheat genome sequence and related Tartary buckwheat transcriptome data, 48 key enzyme-encoding genes involved in flavonoid metabolism were screened from the Tartary buckwheat genome in this study; the chromosome localization, gene structure and promoter elements of these enzyme-encoding gene were also investigated. Gene structure analysis revealed relatively conserved 5' exon sequences among the 48 genes, indicating that the structural diversity of key enzyme-encoding genes is low in Tartary buckwheat. Through promoter analysis, these key enzyme-encoding genes were found to contain a large number of light-response elements and hormone-response elements. In addition, some genes could bind MYB transcription factors, participating in the regulation of flavonoid biosynthesis. The transcription level of the 48 key enzyme-encoding gene varied greatly among tissues. In this study, we identified 48 key enzyme-encoding genes involved in flavonoid metabolic pathways, and elucidated the structure, evolution and tissue-specific expression patterns of these genes. These results lay a foundation for further understanding the functional characteristics and evolutionary relationships of key enzyme-encoding genes involved in the flavonoid metabolic pathway in Tartary buckwheat.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) is an economically important pseudocereal crop, which can adapt well to extreme environments, including low nitrogen (LN) stress. However, little is known regarding the associated molecular mechanisms. In this study, the molecular mechanism of Tartary buckwheat roots in response to different doses of nitrate was investigated by combining physiological changes with transcriptional regulatory network. LN improved elongation and branching of lateral roots, indicating that the plasticity of lateral roots drives the adaption of Tartary buckwheat under LN condition. The roots of the seedlings that were cultivated under four N conditions were selected for RNA-Seq analysis. In total 1686 nitrate dose-responsive genes were identified. Of these genes, 16 genes encoding N transporters showed response to N availability, and they may play important roles in N transport and root system architecture in Tartary buckwheat roots. 108 transcription factors (TFs) showed dose-response to N availability, and they may regulate N response and root growth under varied N conditions by modulating the expression of N transporters. A NIN-like protein, FtNLP7, was identified and it may contribute to the transcriptional regulation of N transporters. Furthermore, 81 N-responsive genes were identified as the small secreted peptides (SSPs). 48 N-responsive SSPs were annotated as hypothetical proteins and they may be the species-specific proteins of Tartary buckwheat. This paper provides useful information for further investigation of the mechanisms underlying the adaptation of Tartary buckwheat under N-deficient condition.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) is an economical crop with excellent edible, nutritional, and medicinal values. However, the production of Tartary buckwheat is very low and it is urgent to breed high-yield varieties for satisfying the increasing market demand. Heterotrimeric G-protein signaling involves in the regulation of agronomical traits and fruit development in several plant species. In this study, fifteen genes involved in G-protein signaling were characterized in Tartary buckwheat and their potential roles in fruit development were revealed by expression analysis. The exon-intron organization and conserved motif of Tartary buckwheat G-protein signaling genes were similar to those in other dicot plants. All these genes were ubiquitously and differently expressed in five tissues. The expression patterns of Tartary buckwheat G-protein signaling genes in fruit suggested they may play important roles in the fruit at early development stage, which was supported by meta-analysis of G-protein signaling genes' expression in the fruits from different species. Furthermore, we found the expression of G-protein signaling genes in fruit showed high correlation with 178 transcription factors, which indicated a transcriptional regulatory loop moderating G-protein signaling genes' expression during fruit development. This paper provides new insights into the physiological functions of G-protein signaling in fruit.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum (L.) Gaertn.) is a nutritional crop, which has high rutin, and is good for health. Until now, plant genetic engineering is insufficient for Tartary buckwheat. Abscisic acid (ABA), as one of phytohormones, is involved in the regulation of plant growth and development, and responses to diverse environmental challenges. Although ABA receptors have been well characterized in Arabidopsis, it is little understood in Tartary buckwheat. In this study, we identified 12 ABA receptors, designated as FtRCAR1 through FtRCAR12 in Tartary buckwheat. FtRCARs are divided into three subfamily. Based on the similarity, we could predict that FtRCARs comprise of the monomeric (FtRCAR1, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11 and 12) and the dimeric (FtRCAR2, 7 and 8) state in solution. The analysis of the transcript pattern indicated that most of FtRCARs were significantly variable among the root, stem, leaf, flower and seed, while FtRCAR4 transcript was undetectable under in all tissues. The transcript levels of FtRCARs under ABA treatment indicated that most FtRCARs transcripts were depressed, indicating a possible feedback regulation of ABA signaling. The analysis of rutin biosynthesis related-genes indicated that ABA up-graduated CHS, CHI, F3'H, F3H and FLS transcript levels, while transcripts of 4CL and PAL were down-regulated. In addition, the transcription factors that mediated the rutin biosynthesis related-genes were also regulated by exogenous ABA. Thus, the identification and the characterization of FtRCARs would enable us to further understand the role of ABA signal in Tartary buckwheat.
FtMYB18 plays a role in the repression of anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins accumulation by strongly down-regulating the CHS and DFR genes in Tartary buckwheat, and the C5 motif plays an important role in this process. Anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins (PAs) are important flavonoids in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.), which provides various vibrant color and stronge abiotic stress resistance. Their synthesis is generally regulated by MYB transcription factors at transcription level. However, the negative regulations of MYB and their effects on flavonol metabolism are poorly understood. A SG4-like MYB subfamily TF, FtMYB18, containing C5 motif was identified from Tartary buckwheat. The expression of FtMYB18 was not only showed a negative correlation with anthocyanins and PAs content but also strongly respond to MeJA and ABA. As far as the transgenic lines with FtMYB18 overexpression, anthocyanins and PAs accumulations were decreased through down-regulating expression levels of NtCHS and NtDFR in tobacco, AtDFR and AtTT12 in Arabidopsis, FtCHS, FtDFR and FtANS in Tartary buckwheat hairy roots, respectively. However, FtMYB18 showed no effect on the FLS gene expression and the metabolites content in flavonol synthesis branch. The further molecular interaction analysis indicated FtMYB18 could mediate the inhibition of anthocyanins and PAs synthesis by forming MBW transcriptional complex with FtTT8 and FtTTG1, or MYB-JAZ complex with FtJAZ1/-3/-4/-7. Importantly, in FtMYB18 mutant lines with C5 motif deletion (FtMYB18-C), both of anthocyanins and PAs accumulations had recovered to the similar level as that in wild type, which was attributed to the weakened MBW complex activity or the deficient molecular interaction between FtMYB18ΔC5 with FtJAZ3/-4. The results showed that FtMYB18 could suppress anthocyanins and PAs synthesis at transcription level through the specific interaction of C5 motif with other proteins in Tartary buckwheat.
Fagopyrum cymosum has been considered as a traditional medicinal plant that belongs to Fagopyrum, which has exhibited great pharmaceutical potential due to its abundant flavonoid accumulation. The hairy roots induced by Agrobacterium rhizogenes has been utilized to produce valuable specialized metabolites or reveals plant metabolic processes, whereas the underlying regulatory networks of flavonoid biosynthesis in hairy roots of F. cymosum remained unexplored. Here, the regulatory transcription factor TrMYB4 cloned from Trifolium repens with purple striped leaves was considered to investigate the mechanism of flavonoids biosynthesis in hairy roots of F. cymosum. Results showed that the expression of key genes involved in rutin biosynthesis pathway from TrMYB4 hairy roots were significantly up-regulated compared with non-transgenic hairy roots, while the content of total flavonoids and rutin in TrMYB4 hairy roots also increased consistently. It revealed the TrMYB4 transcription factor could regulate the rutin biosynthesis in F. cymosum. Meanwhile, our research provided a theoretical reference for the industrial production of rutin using F. cymosum hairy roots.
Tartary buckwheat (TB) [Fagopyrum tataricum (L.) Gaertn] possesses various biological and pharmacological activities because it contains abundant secondary metabolites such as flavonoids, especially rutin. Agrobacterium rhizogenes have been gradually used worldwide to induce hairy roots in medicinal plants to investigate gene functions and increase the yield of secondary metabolites. In this study, we have described a detailed method to generate A. rhizogenes-mediated hairy roots in TB. Cotyledons and hypocotyledonary axis at 7-10 days were selected as explants and infected with A. rhizogenes carrying a binary vector, which induced adventitious hairy roots that appeared after 1 week. The generated hairy root transformation was identified based on morphology, resistance selection (kanamycin), and reporter gene expression (green fluorescent protein). Subsequently, the transformed hairy roots were self-propagated as required. Meanwhile, a myeloblastosis (MYB) transcription factor, FtMYB116, was transformed into the TB genome using the A. rhizogenes-mediated hairy roots to verify the role of FtMYB116 in synthesizing flavonoids. The results showed that the expression of flavonoid-related genes and the yield of flavonoid compounds (rutin and quercetin) were significantly (p < 0.01) promoted by FtMYB116, indicating that A. rhizogenes-mediated hairy roots can be used as an effective alternative tool to investigate gene functions and the production of secondary metabolites. The detailed step-by-step protocol described in this study for generating hairy roots can be adopted for any genetic transformation or other medicinal plants after adjustment.
Tartary buckwheat rice-type cultivars, which allow easy dehulling, lacked periclinal cell divisions that proceed underneath the epidermis in the proximity of ovary midribs in non-rice-type cultivars. The easy dehulling in these cultivars was associated with a G→A substitution in an AGAMOUS ortholog. Ease of dehulling in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) can affect the quality of its products. Tartary buckwheat cultivars that allow easy dehulling are called rice-type cultivars. The rice and non-rice hull types are determined by a single gene, but this gene is unclear. Here, we show that cells underneath the epidermis in the proximity of ovary midribs undergo periclinal cell divisions in non-rice-type cultivars but do not in a rice-type cultivar. The cells that arose from the periclinal cell divisions later underwent lignification, which should increase mechanical strength of hulls. In RNA sequencing, a partial mRNA of an AGAMOUS ortholog in Tartary buckwheat (FtAG) was found to be absent in the rice-type cultivar. Cloning of this gene revealed that this is a 42-bp deletion due to a G→A substitution at a splice acceptor site in the FtAG genomic region. In F2 progeny derived from a cross between non-rice-type and rice-type cultivars, all the rice-type plants exhibited the homozygous A/A allele at this site, whereas all the Tartary-type plants exhibited either the homozygous G/G allele or the heterozygous A/G allele. These results suggest that FtAG is a candidate for the gene that determines ease of dehulling in Tartary buckwheat. The DNA marker that we developed to distinguish the FtAG alleles can be useful in breeding Tartary buckwheat cultivars.
The WRKY gene family plays important roles in plant biological functions and has been identified in many plant species. With the publication of the Tartary buckwheat genome, the evolutionary characteristics of the WRKY gene family can be systematically explored and the functions of In this study, the A total of 76 We have identified several candidate
bZIP transcription factors have been reported to be involved in many different biological processes in plants. The ABA (abscisic acid)-dependent AREB/ABF-SnRK2 pathway has been shown to play a key role in the response to osmotic stress in model plants. In this study, a novel bZIP gene,
The WRKY transcription factor family includes plant-specific transcription factors that are widely involved in plant biotic and abiotic stress responses, growth and development. Tartary buckwheat is a type of small grain with strong resistance to adverse growing conditions. No systematic exploration of the WRKY family in Tartary buckwheat has yet been reported. In this paper, we report the FtWRKY46 gene from Tartary buckwheat and study its role in salt tolerance. FtWRKY46 has transcriptional activation activity in yeast, and FtWRKY46 fused to yellow fluorescent protein localizes to the nucleus. Further studies have found that its transcriptional activation region is located at the N-terminus. A yeast one-hybrid assay indicated that FtWRKY46 could bind to a W-box and activate reporter gene expression. Similarly, transient cotransfection showed that FtWRKY46 could specifically bind to W-box regions and activate reporter gene expression in plants. Furthermore, ectopic expression of FtWRKY46 could enhance Arabidopsis tolerance to salt stress. More specifically, the seed germination rate, root length, chlorophyll content and proline content were significantly higher in transgenic plants ectopically expressing FtWRKY46 than in WT plants after salt stress (P < 0.05), while MDA levels were significantly lower than in WT plants (P < 0.05). Additionally, salt treatment increased the expression of stress-related genes. To summarize, our results suggest that ectopic expression of FtWRKY46 enhance the stress tolerance of transgenic plants by modulating ROS clearance and stress-related gene expression.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) a kind of edible and medicinal plant, is of great nutritional value. It is difficult to remove the hull of Tartary buckwheat fruit and breeding new easy-dehulled varieties has been one of the major breeding objectives. The bHLH gene family plays a vital role in plant growth and fruit dehiscence. In order to improve Tartary buckwheat breeding, we need to study the bHLH gene family for excavating genes with potential regulation of fruit development and dehiscence. Here, 164 Fagopyrum tataricum bHLH (FtbHLH) genes were identified. Analyses of gene structure and motif composition illustrate that the members of specific FtbHLH subfamily are relatively conserved. Synteny and phylogenetic analyses of bHLH genes in Tartary buckwheat and other plants lay a foundation for further exploring the evolutionary characteristic of the FtbHLH genes (FtbHLHs). qRT-PCR experiments showed that FtbHLHs expression patterns were different in plant organs, indicating that they may perform diverse functions. In addition, some genes that potentially regulate flower and fruit development and easy dehulling were screened out. Overall, this study will be helpful for further analyzing the biological function of FtbHLHs and provides clues for improving the genetic breeding and economic value of the Tartary buckwheat.
Heat shock transcription factor (Hsfs) is widely found in eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Hsfs can not only help organisms resist high temperature, but also participate in the regulation of plant growth and development (such as involved in the regulation of seed maturity and affects the root length of plants). The Hsf gene was first isolated from yeast and then gradually found in plants and sequenced, such as Arabidopsis thaliana, rice, maize. Tartary buckwheat is a rutin-rich crop, and its nutritional value and medicinal value are receiving more and more attention. However, there are few studies on the Hsf genes in Tartary buckwheat. With the whole genome sequence of Tartary buckwheat, we can effectively study the Hsf gene family in Tartary buckwheat. According to the study, 29 Hsf genes of Tartary buckwheat (FtHsf) were identified and renamed according to location of FtHsf genes on chromosome after removing a redundant gene. Therefore, only 29 FtHsf genes truly had the functional characteristics of the FtHsf family. The 29 FtHsf genes were located on 8 chromosomes of Tartary buckwheat, and we found gene duplication events in the FtHsf gene family, which may promote the expansion of the FtHsf gene family. Then, the motif compositions and the evolutionary relationship of FtHsf proteins and the gene structures, cis-acting elements in the promoter, synteny analysis of FtHsf genes were discussed in detail. What's more, we found that the transcription levels of FtHsf in different tissues and fruit development stages were significantly different by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), implied that FtHsf may differ in function. In this study, only 29 Hsf genes were identified in Tartary buckwheat. Meanwhile, we also classified the FtHsf genes, and studied their structure, evolutionary relationship and the expression pattern. This series of studies has certain reference value for the study of the specific functional characteristics of Tartary buckwheat Hsf genes and to improve the yield and quality of Tartary buckwheat in the future.
Buckwheat (Fagopyrum spp.) under the family Polygonaceae is an ancient pseudocereal with stupendous but less studied nutraceutical properties. The gluten free nature of protein, balanced amino acid profile and health promoting bioactive flavonoids make it a golden crop of future. Besides a scanty basic research, not much attention has been paid to the improvement of plant type and breeding of nutraceutical traits. Scanning of scientific literature indicates that adequate genetic variation exists for agronomic and nutritional traits in mainstream and wild gene pool of buckwheat. However, the currently employed conventional approaches together with poorly understood genetic mechanisms restrict effective utilization of the existing genetic variation in nutraceutical breeding of buckwheat. The latest trends in buckwheat genomics, particularly avalilabity of draft genome sequences for both the cultivated species (F. esculentum and F.tataricum) hold immense potential to overcome these limitations. Utilizing the transgenic hairy rot cultures, role of various transcription factors and gene families have been deduced in production and biosynthesis of bioactive flavonoids. Further, the acquisition of high-density genomics data coupled with the next-generation phenotyping will certainly improve our understanding of underlying genetic regulation of nutraceutical traits. The present paper highlights the application of multilayered omics interventions for tailoring a nutrient rich buckwheat cultivar and nutraceutical product development.
Kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside is one of the compounds isolated from tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tatricum), and its biological effects have not been studied yet. The present study examined the anti‑inflammatory effects of kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside and explore its regulatory mechanisms in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)‑induced macrophage RAW264.7 cells. Kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside exhibited no cytotoxic effect in RAW 264.7 macrophage and 293 cell lines up to 300 µM. As the concentration of kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside was increased, the activity of nitric oxide was inhibited in LPS‑stimulated RAW264.7 cells. In addition, kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside treatment downregulated the expression of inflammation‑related cytokines tumor necrosis factor‑α and interleukin‑6 in LPS‑stimulated RAW264.7 cells. Furthermore, kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside treatment suppressed inflammatory‑mediated factors, such as inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxyganse‑2. These inflammation‑related proteins are known to be regulated by NF‑κB and mitogen‑activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling, therefore the effect of kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside on these pathways was investigated. The results demonstrated that kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside decreased the expression of inhibitor of κB (IκB) protein and IκB kinases; as a result, the nuclear translocation and expression of NF‑κB was inhibited in LPS‑stimulated RAW264.7 cells. Furthermore, kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside inhibited the phosphorylation of p38, extracellular signal‑regulated kinase and stress‑activated protein kinase in LPS‑stimulated RAW264.7 cells. Thus, the present data demonstrated that kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside suppressed inflammation‑related gene expression through the NF‑κB and MAPK pathways, and suggested that it may be a useful reagent in pharmacological research.
Buckwheat trypsin inhibitor (BTI) is a low molecular weight polypeptide that can help to prevent metabolic diseases such as obesity, hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia. Herein, the effects of recombinant BTI (rBTI) on fat accumulation in Caenorhabditis elegans were studied. rBTI prevented fat accumulation under normal and high glucose conditions, and led to significantly shorter body widths without affecting C. elegans feeding behavior. Results also indicate that rBTI altered fat breakdown, synthesis, and accumulation by altering the transcription, expression and activity of key enzymes in lipolysis and fat synthesis. In daf-2 and daf-16 mutants, rBTI did not prevent fat accumulation, indicating that rBTI activity relies on the insulin/insulin-like growth factor (IIS) pathway. Overall rBTI may regulate changes in lipolysis and fat synthesis by down-regulating the IIS pathway, which can affect fat accumulation. These findings support the application of rBTI in preventing obesity, hyperglycemia and hyperlipemia.
Plants are subjected to a variety of abiotic stresses during their lifetime, and drought and salt stress are some of the main causes of reduced crop yields. Previous studies have shown that AREB/ABFs within bZIP transcription factors are involved in plant drought and salt stress responses in an ABA-dependent manner. However, the properties and functions of AREB/ABFs in Fagopyrum tataricum, a cereal with good resistance to abiotic stresses, are poorly understood. In this study, a gene encoding an AREB/ABF, designated FtbZIP83, was first isolated from Tartary buckwheat. Expression analysis in Tartary buckwheat indicated that FtbZIP83 was significantly induced by abscisic acid (ABA), NaCl and polyethylene glycol (PEG). The overexpression of FtbZIP83 in Arabidopsis resulted in increased drought/salt tolerance, which was attributed not only to higher proline (Pro) contents and antioxidant enzyme activity in transgenic lines compared with controls but also to the lower reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and malondialdehyde (MDA) content. In addition, we found that FtbZIP83 was able to respond to drought and salt stress by upregulating the transcript abundance of downstream ABA-inducible gene. Furthermore, promoter sequence analysis showed that ABREs were present, and the activity of the FtbZIP83 promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis after drought stress was significantly higher than that under normal conditions. Based on the potential signalling pathways involved in AREB/ABFs, we also screened for the interaction protein FtSnRK2.6/2.3, which may phosphorylate FtbZIP83. Collectively, these results provide evidence that FtbZIP83, as a positive regulator, responds to drought/salt stress via an ABA-dependent signalling pathway composed of SnRK2-AREB/ABF.
Seed development is an essential and complex process, which is involved in seed size change and various nutrients accumulation, and determines crop yield and quality. Common buckwheat (
In the study, the trihelix family, also referred to as GT factors, is one of the transcription factor families. Trihelix genes play roles in the light response, seed maturation, leaf development, abiotic and biological stress and other biological activities. However, the trihelix family in tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), an important usable medicinal crop, has not yet been thoroughly studied. The genome of tartary buckwheat has recently been reported and provides a theoretical basis for our research on the characteristics and expression of trihelix genes in tartary buckwheat based at the whole level. In the present study, a total of 31 FtTH genes were identified based on the buckwheat genome. They were named from FtTH1 to FtTH31 and grouped into 5 groups (GT-1, GT-2, SH4, GTγ and SIP1). FtTH genes are not evenly distributed on the chromosomes, and we found segmental duplication events of FtTH genes on tartary buckwheat chromosomes. According to the results of gene and motif composition, FtTH located in the same group contained analogous intron/exon organizations and motif organizations. qRT-PCR showed that FtTH family members have multiple expression patterns in stems, roots, leaves, fruits, and flowers and during fruit development. Through our study, we identified 31 FtTH genes in tartary buckwheat and synthetically further analyzed the evolution and expression pattern of FtTH proteins. The structure and motif organizations of most genes are conserved in each subfamily, suggesting that they may be functionally conserved. The FtTH characteristics of the gene expression patterns indicate functional diversity in the time and space in the tartary buckwheat life process. Based on the discussion and analysis of FtTH gene function, we screened some genes closely related to the growth and development of tartary buckwheat. This will help us to further study the function of FtTH genes through experimental exploration in tartary buckwheat growth and improve the fruit of tartary buckwheat.
GRAS are plant-specific transcription factors that play important roles in plant growth and development. Although the GRAS gene family has been studied in many plants, there has been little research on the GRAS genes of Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), which is an important crop rich in rutin. The recently published whole genome sequence of Tartary buckwheat allows us to study the characteristics and expression patterns of the GRAS gene family in Tartary buckwheat at the genome-wide level. In this study, 47 GRAS genes of Tartary buckwheat were identified and divided into 10 subfamilies: LISCL, HAM, DELLA, SCR, PAT1, SCL4/7, LAS, SHR, SCL3, and DLT. FtGRAS genes were unevenly distributed on 8 chromosomes, and members of the same subfamily contained similar gene structures and motif compositions. Some FtGRAS genes may have been produced by gene duplications; tandem duplication contributed more to the expansion of the GRAS gene family in Tartary buckwheat. Real-time PCR showed that the transcription levels of FtGRAS were significantly different in different tissues and fruit development stages, implying that FtGRAS might have different functions. Furthermore, an increase in fruit weight was induced by exogenous paclobutrazol, and the transcription level of the DELLA subfamily member FtGRAS22 was significantly upregulated during the whole fruit development stage. Therefore, FtGRAS22 may be a potential target for molecular breeding or genetic editing. Collectively, this systematic analysis lays a foundation for further study of the functional characteristics of GRAS genes and for the improvement of Tartary buckwheat crops.
SPL (SQUAMOSA promoter binding protein-like) is a class of plant-specific transcription factors that play important roles in many growth and developmental processes, including shoot and inflorescence branching, embryonic development, signal transduction, leaf initiation, phase transition, and flower and fruit development. The SPL gene family has been identified and characterized in many species but has not been well studied in tartary buckwheat, which is an important edible and medicinal crop. In this study, 24 Fagopyrum tataricum SPL (FtSPL) genes were identified and renamed according to the chromosomal distribution of the FtSPL genes. According to the amino acid sequence of the SBP domain and gene structure, the SPL genes were divided into eight groups (group I to group VII) by phylogenetic tree analysis. A total of 10 motifs were detected in the tartary buckwheat SPL genes. The expression patterns of 23 SPL genes in different tissues and fruits at different developmental stages (green fruit stage, discoloration stage and initial maturity stage) were determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The tartary buckwheat genome contained 24 SPL genes, and most of the genes were expressed in different tissues. qRT-PCR showed that FtSPLs played important roles in the growth and development of tartary buckwheat, and genes that might regulate flower and fruit development were preliminarily identified. This work provides a comprehensive understanding of the SBP-box gene family in tartary buckwheat and lays a significant foundation for further studies on the functional characteristics of FtSPL genes and improvement of tartary buckwheat crops.
Because flavonoids and trichomes play crucial roles in plant defence, their formation requires fine transcriptional control by multiple transcription factor families. However, little is known regarding the mechanism of the R2R3-MYB transcription factors that regulate both flavonoid metabolism and trichome development. Here, we identified a unique SG4-like-MYB TF from Tartary buckwheat, FtMYB8, which harbours the C2 repression motif and an additional TLLLFR repression motif. The expression profiles of FtMYB8 combined with the transcriptional activity of P Taken together, our results suggest that FtMYB8 may fine-tune the accumulation of anthocyanin/proanthocyanidin in the roots and flowers of Tartary buckwheat by balancing the inductive effects of transcriptional activators, and probably regulate trichome distribution in the buds of Tartary buckwheat.
In reported plants, the bZIP family is one of the largest transcription factor families. bZIP genes play roles in the light signal, seed maturation, flower development, cell elongation, seed accumulation protein, abiotic and biological stress and other biological processes. While, no detailed identification and genome-wide analysis of bZIP family genes in Fagopyum talaricum (tartary buckwheat) has previously been published. The recently reported genome sequence of tartary buckwheat provides theoretical basis for us to study and discuss the characteristics and expression of bZIP genes in tartary buckwheat based on the whole genome. In this study, 96 FtbZIP genes named from FtbZIP1 to FtbZIP96 were identified and divided into 11 subfamilies according to their genetic relationship with 70 bZIPs of A. thaliana. FtbZIP genes are not evenly distributed on the chromosomes, and we found tandem and segmental duplication events of FtbZIP genes on 8 tartary buckwheat chromosomes. According to the results of gene and motif composition, FtbZIP located in the same group contained analogous intron/exon organizations and motif composition. By qRT-PCR, we quantified the expression of FtbZIP members in stem, root, leaf, fruit, and flower and during fruit development. Exogenous ABA treatment increased the weight of tartary buckwheat fruit and changed the expressions of FtbZIP genes in group A. Through our study, we identified 96 FtbZIP genes in tartary buckwheat and synthetically further analyzed the structure composition, evolution analysis and expression pattern of FtbZIP proteins. The expression pattern indicates that FtbZIP is important in the course of plant growth and development of tartary buckwheat. Through comprehensively analyzing fruit weight and FtbZIP genes expression after ABA treatment and endogenous ABA content of tartary buckwheat fruit, ABA may regulate downstream gene expression by regulating the expression of FtPinG0003523300.01 and FtPinG0003196200.01, thus indirectly affecting the fruit development of tartary buckwheat. This will help us to further study the function of FtbZIP genes in the tartary buckwheat growth and improve the fruit of tartary buckwheat.
With the acceleration of aging process in human society, improvements of the physical functionality and life quality in the elderly population are more meaningful than pure longevity. Buckwheat trypsin inhibitor is a low molecular weight polypeptide extracted from buckwheat, which is a beneficial food for improving the health in the elderly. The aim of the current study was to evaluate the potential beneficial effects of recombinant buckwheat trypsin inhibitor (rBTI) on age-dependent function decline and the primary mechanism. Day 10 N2 Caenorhabditis elegans and day 6 AM140 C. elegans cultured at 25°C were used as models of aging and age-related disease, respectively. Motor function was as an indicator of age-dependent function. ATP content and damage mitochondrial DNA mass were detected to assess mitochondrial damage and function by ATP Assay Kit and agarose gel electrophoresis, respectively. Soluble protein content was quantified by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Autophagy-related genes transcription levels, autophagy marker proteins lgg-1, and lysosomal content were analyzed to quantify autophagy levels by qRT-PCR, transgenic C. elegans, and lysosomal staining. Autophagy inhibitor chloroquine, daf-16 mutant, and RNA Interference were used to determine the roles of autophagy and DAF-16 in rBTI-mediated effects. In this study, we found that rBTI could decrease the proportions of insoluble protein and impaired mitochondria, finally reduce motility deficits in both models. Further study indicated that rBTI activated the autophagy, and the inhibition of autophagy reduced rBTI-mediated beneficial effects. Genetic analyses showed the transcriptional activity of DAF-16 was increased by rBTI and was required for rBTI-mediated beneficial effects. These data indicated that rBTI might promote the autophagy to alleviate the age-related functional decline via DAF-16 in C. elegans and suggested a potential role of rBTI as a nutraceutical for the improvement of age-related complications.
Obesity is intimately related to a chronic inflammatory state, with augmentation of macrophage infiltration and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion in white adipose tissue (WAT) and mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal muscle. The specific aim of this study is to evaluate effects of tartary buckwheat extract (TB) on obesity-induced adipose tissue inflammation and muscle peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator (PGC)-1α/sirtulin 1 (SIRT1) pathway in rats fed a high-fat diet. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups and fed either a normal diet (NOR), 45% high-fat diet (HF), HF + low dose of TB (TB-L; 5 g/kg diet), or HF + high dose of TB (TB-H; 10 g/kg diet) for 13 weeks. TB significantly reduced adipose tissue mass with decreased adipogenic gene expression of PPAR-γ and aP2. Serum nitric oxide levels and adipose tissue macrophage M1 polarization gene markers, such as iNOS, CD11c, and Arg1, and pro-inflammatory gene expression, including TNF-α, IL-6, and MCP-1, were remarkably downregulated in the TB-L and TB-H groups. Moreover, TB supplementation increased gene expression of PGC-1α and SIRT1, involved in muscle biogenesis and function. These results suggested that TB might attenuate obesity-induced inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction by modulating adipose tissue inflammation and the muscle PGC-1α/SIRT1 pathway.
AP2/ERF transcription factors perform indispensable functions in various biological processes, such as plant growth, development, biotic and abiotic stresses responses. The AP2/ERF transcription factor family has been identified in many plants, and several AP2/ERF transcription factors from Arabidopsis thaliana (A. thaliana) have been functionally characterized. However, little research has been conducted on the AP2/ERF genes of tartary buckwheat (Fagopyum tataricum), which is an important edible and medicinal crop. The recently published whole genome sequence of tartary buckwheat allowed us to study the tissue and expression profiles of AP2/ERF genes in tartary buckwheat on a genome-wide basis. In this study, 134 AP2/ERF genes of tartary buckwheat (FtAP2/ERF) were identified and renamed according to the chromosomal distribution of the FtAP2/ERF genes. According to the number conserved domains and gene structure, the AP2/ERF genes were divided into three subfamilies by phylogenetic tree analysis, namely, AP2 (15 members), ERF (116 members) and RAV (3 members). A total of 10 motifs were detected in tartary buckwheat AP2/ERF genes, and some of the unique motifs were found to be important for the function of AP2/ERF genes. A comprehensive analysis of AP2/ERF gene expression patterns in different tissues and fruit development stages by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) showed that they played an important role in the growth and development of tartary buckwheat, and genes that might regulate flower and fruit development were preliminarily identified. This systematic analysis establishes a foundation for further studies of the functional characteristics of FtAP2/ERF genes and improvement of tartary buckwheat crops.
The NAC (NAM, ATAF1/2, and CUC2) transcription factor family represents a group of large plant-specific transcriptional regulators, participating in plant development and response to external stress. However, there is no comprehensive study on the NAC genes of Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), a large group of extensively cultivated medicinal and edible plants. The recently published Tartary buckwheat genome permits us to explore all the FtNAC genes on a genome-wide basis. In the present study, 80 NAC (FtNAC) genes of Tartary buckwheat were obtained and named uniformly according to their distribution on chromosomes. Phylogenetic analysis of NAC proteins in both Tartary buckwheat and Arabidopsis showed that the FtNAC proteins are widely distributed in 15 subgroups with one subgroup unclassified. Gene structure analysis found that multitudinous FtNAC genes contained three exons, indicating that the structural diversity in Tartary buckwheat NAC genes is relatively low. Some duplication genes of FtNAC have a conserved structure that was different from others, indicating that these genes may have a variety of functions. By observing gene expression, we found that FtNAC genes showed abundant differences in expression levels in various tissues and at different stages of fruit development. In this research, 80 NAC genes were identified in Tartary buckwheat, and their phylogenetic relationships, gene structures, duplication, global expression and potential roles in Tartary buckwheat development were studied. Comprehensive analysis will be useful for a follow-up study of functional characteristics of FtNAC genes and for the development of high-quality Tartary buckwheat varieties.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) not only provides a supplement to primary grain crops in China but also has high medicinal value, by virtue of its rich content of flavonoids possessing antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anticancer properties. Light is an important environmental factor that can regulate the synthesis of plant secondary metabolites. In this study, we treated tartary buckwheat seedlings with different wavelengths of light and found that red and blue light could increase the content of flavonoids and the expression of genes involved in flavonoid synthesis pathways. Through coexpression analysis, we identified a new MYB transcription factor (FtMYB116) that can be induced by red and blue light. Yeast one-hybrid assays and an electrophoretic mobility shift assay showed that FtMYB116 binds directly to the promoter region of flavonoid-3'-hydroxylase (F3'H), and a transient luciferase activity assay indicated that FtMYB116 can induce F3'H expression. After transforming FtMYB116 into the hairy roots of tartary buckwheat, we observed significant increases in the content of rutin and quercetin. Collectively, our results indicate that red and blue light promote an increase in flavonoid content in tartary buckwheat seedlings; we also identified a new MYB transcription factor, FtMYB116, that promotes the accumulation of rutin via direct activation of F3'H expression.
Abiotic stress causes various negative impacts on plants, such as water loss, reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and decreased photosynthesis. R2R3-MYB transcription factors (TFs) play crucial roles in the response of plants to abiotic stress. However, their functions in Tartary buckwheat, a strongly abiotic and resistant coarse cereal, haven't been fully investigated. In this paper, we report that a R2R3-MYB from Tartary buckwheat, FtMYB13, is not an activator of transcriptional activity but is located in the nucleus. Moreover, compared to the wild type (WT), transgenic Arabidopsis overexpressing FtMYB13 had a lower sensitivity to ABA and caused improved drought/salt tolerance, which was attributed to the higher proline content, greater photosynthetic efficiency, higher transcript abundance of some stress-related genes and the smaller amount of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA) in the transgenic lines compared to WT. Consequently, our work indicates that FtMYB13 is involved in mediating plant responses to ABA, as well as salt and drought.
Buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) contains high amounts of flavonoids, especially flavonols (e.g., rutin), which are thought to be highly beneficial for human health. Little is known, however, about the regulation of flavonol synthesis in buckwheat. We identified a buckwheat gene encoding an R2R3 MYB transcription factor, and named this gene FeMYBF1. Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence and phylogenetic analysis suggested that FeMYBF1 encodes an ortholog of the Arabidopsis flavonol regulators AtMYB11, AtMYB12 and AtMYB111. Expression of FeMYBF1 in a flavonol-deficient Arabidopsis triple mutant (myb11 myb12 myb111) restored flavonol synthesis. Constitutive expression of FeMYBF1 driven by the CaMV 35S promoter in Arabidopsis resulted in over-accumulation of flavonol glycosides and upregulation of the expression of AtFLS1. Transient expression assays showed that FeMYBF1 activated the promoter of the Arabidopsis gene encoding AtFLS1, and the promoters of buckwheat genes related to anthocyanin and proanthocyanidin synthesis such as dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) and leucoanthocyanidin dioxygenase (LDOX) in addition to genes encoding FLS. The results indicate that FeMYBF1 regulates flavonol synthesis and may have a role in synthesis of other flavonoid compounds, and also that buckwheat may have alternative pathway of flavonol synthesis through DFR and LDOX.
bHLH transcription factors play important roles in the abiotic stress response in plants, but their characteristics and functions in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), a traditional coarse cereal with a strong stress tolerance, haven't been sufficiently studied. Here, we found that the expression of a bHLH gene, FtbHLH2, was induced significantly by cold treatments in Tartary buckwheat seedlings. Subcellular localization indicated that FtbHLH2 localized in nucleus. Its overexpression in Arabidopsis increased tolerance to cold. The Arabidopsis plants overexpressing FtbHLH2 displayed higher root length and photosynthetic efficiency, and had lower malondialdehyde (MDA) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) after cold treatment compared to wild type (WT) plants. Meanwhile, the expression levels of some stress-related genes in transgenic plants were remarkably higher than that in wild type under normal and/or stress conditions. Furthermore, transgenic Arabidopsis lines with the FtbHLH2 promoter had higher GUS activity after cold stress. On the whole, the results suggest that FtbHLH2 may play a positive regulatory in cold stress of Tartary buckwheat.
Jasmonates are plant hormones that induce the accumulation of many secondary metabolites, such as rutin in buckwheat, via regulation of jasmonate-responsive transcription factors. Here, we report on the identification of a clade of jasmonate-responsive subgroup 4 MYB transcription factors, FtMYB13, FtMYB14, FtMYB15, and FtMYB16, which directly repress rutin biosynthesis in Fagopyrum tataricum. Immunoblot analysis showed that FtMYB13, FtMYB14, and FtMYB15 could be degraded via the 26S proteasome in the COI1-dependent jasmonate signaling pathway, and that this degradation is due to the SID motif in their C-terminus. Yeast two-hybrid and bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays revealed that FtMYB13, FtMYB14, and FtMYB15 interact with the importin protein Sensitive to ABA and Drought 2 (FtSAD2) in stem and inflorescence. Furthermore, the key repressor of jasmonate signaling FtJAZ1 specifically interacts with FtMYB13. Point mutation analysis showed that the conserved Asp residue of the SID domain contributes to mediating protein-protein interaction. Protoplast transient activation assays demonstrated that FtMYB13, FtMYB14, and FtMYB15 directly repress phenylalanine ammonia lyase (FtPAL) gene expression, and FtSAD2 and FtJAZ1 significantly promote the repressing activity of FtMYBs. These findings may ultimately be promising for further engineering of plant secondary metabolism.
Buckwheat is an important minor crop with pharmaceutical functions due to rutin enrichment in the seed. Seeds of common buckwheat cultivars (Fagopyrum esculentum, Fes) usually have much lower rutin content than tartary buckwheat (F. tartaricum, Ft). We previously found a wild species of common buckwheat (F. esculentum ssp. ancestrale, Fea), with seeds that are high in rutin, similar to Ft. In the present study, we investigated the mechanism by which rutin production varies among different buckwheat cultivars, Fea, a Ft variety (Xide) and a Fes variety (No.2 Pingqiao) using RNA sequencing of filling stage seeds. Sequencing data generated approximately 43.78-Gb of clean bases, all these data were pooled together and assembled 180,568 transcripts, and 109,952 unigenes. We established seed gene expression profiles of each buckwheat sample and assessed genes involved in flavonoid biosynthesis, storage proteins production, CYP450 family, starch and sucrose metabolism, and transcription factors. Differentially expressed genes between Fea and Fes were further analyzed due to their close relationship than with Ft. Expression levels of flavonoid biosynthesis gene FLS1 (Flavonol synthase 1) were similar in Fea and Ft, and much higher than in Fes, which was validated by qRT-PCR. This suggests that FLS1 transcript levels may be associated with rutin accumulation in filling stage seeds of buckwheat species. Further, we explored transcription factors by iTAK, and multiple gene families were identified as being involved in the coordinate regulation of metabolism and development. Our extensive transcriptomic data sets provide a complete description of metabolically related genes that are differentially expressed in filling stage buckwheat seeds and suggests that FLS1 is a key controller of rutin synthesis in buckwheat species. FLS1 can effectively convert dihydroflavonoids into flavonol products. These findings provide a basis for further studies of flavonoid biosynthesis in buckwheat breeding to help accelerate flavonoid metabolic engineering that would increase rutin content in cultivars of common buckwheat.
Soil salinization has been a tremendous obstacle for agriculture production. The regulatory networks underlying salinity adaption in model plants have been extensively explored. However, limited understanding of the salt response mechanisms has hindered the planting and production in
Buckwheat sprouts have been widely consumed all around world due to their great abundance of bioactive compounds. In this study, the anti-inflammatory effects of flavonoid-rich common buckwheat sprout (CBS) and tartary buckwheat sprout (TBS) extracts were evaluated in lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) stimulated RAW 264.7 murine macrophages and primary peritoneal macrophages from male BALB/c mice. Based on the reversed-phase HPLC analysis, the major flavonoids in CBS were determined to be
Being an Al-accumulating crop, buckwheat detoxifies and tolerates Al not only in roots but also in leaves. While much progress has recently been made toward Al toxicity and resistance mechanisms in roots, little is known about the molecular basis responsible for detoxification and tolerance processes in leaves. Here, we carried out transcriptome analysis of buckwheat leaves in response to Al stress (20 µM, 24 h). We obtained 33,931 unigenes with 26,300 unigenes annotated in the NCBI database, and identified 1063 upregulated and 944 downregulated genes under Al stress. Functional category analysis revealed that genes related to protein translation, processing, degradation and metabolism comprised the biological processes most affected by Al, suggesting that buckwheat leaves maintain flexibility under Al stress by rapidly reprogramming their physiology and metabolism. Analysis of genes related to transcription regulation revealed that a large proportion of chromatin-regulation genes are specifically downregulated by Al stress, whereas transcription factor genes are overwhelmingly upregulated. Furthermore, we identified 78 upregulated and 22 downregulated genes that encode transporters. Intriguingly, only a few genes were overlapped with root Al-regulated transporter genes, which include homologs of
Little is known about the molecular mechanism of the R2R3-MYB transcriptional repressors involved in plant phenylpropanoid metabolism. Here, we describe one R2R3-type MYB repressor, FtMYB11 from Fagopyrum tataricum. It contains the SID-like motif GGDFNFDL and it is regulated by both the importin protein 'Sensitive to ABA and Drought 2' (SAD2) and the jasmonates signalling cascade repressor JAZ protein. Yeast two hybrid and bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays demonstrated that FtMYB11 interacts with SAD2 and FtJAZ1. Protoplast transactivation assays demonstrated that FtMYB11 acts synergistically with FtSAD2 or FtJAZ1 and directly represses its target genes via the MYB-core element AATAGTT. Changing the Asp122 residue to Asn in the SID-like motif results in cytoplasmic localization of FtMYB11 because of loss of interaction with SAD2, while changing the Asp126 residue to Asn results in the loss of interaction with FtJAZ1. Overexpression of FtMYB11or FtMYB11
The present study was conducted to explore the effects of a purified tartary buckwheat flavonoid fraction (TBF) on insulin resistance and hepatic oxidative stress in mice fed high fructose in drinking water (20%) for 8 weeks. The results indicated that continuous administration of TBF dose-dependently improved the insulin sensitivity and glucose intolerance in high fructose-fed mice. TBF treatment also reversed the reduced level of insulin action on the phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1), protein kinase B (Akt) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), as well as the translocation of glucose transporter type 4 (GLUT4) in the insulin-resistant liver. Furthermore, TBF was found to exert high antioxidant capacity as it acts as a shield against oxidative stress induced by high fructose by restoring the antioxidant status, and modulating nuclear factor E2 related factor 2 (Nrf2) translocation to the nucleus with subsequently up-regulated antioxidative enzyme protein expression. Histopathological examinations revealed that impaired pancreatic/hepatic tissues were effectively restored in high fructose-fed mice following TBF treatment. Our results show that TBF intake is effective in preventing the conversion of high fructose-induced insulin resistance and hepatic oxidative stress in mice by improving the insulin signaling molecules and the Nrf2 signal pathway in the liver.
bHLH (basic helix-loop-helix) transcription factors play important roles in the abiotic stress response in plants, but their characteristics and functions in tartary buckwheat (
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is a traditional coarse cereal that exhibits strong plasticity in its adaptation to harsh and complicated environmental stresses. In an attempt to study the strong tolerance of tartary buckwheat, the FtMYB9 gene, which encodes an R2R3-MYB transcription factor protein, was functionally investigated. FtMYB9 expression was rapidly and strongly induced by ABA, cold, salt, and drought treatments in the seedling stage. A yeast one-hybrid system assay indicated that FtMYB9 is an activator of transcriptional activity, consistent with its roles as a transcription factor. Its overexpression in plants resulted in increased sensitivity to ABA at the germination and seedling stages compared to wild type. The overexpression of FtMYB9 increased tolerance to drought and salt stresses by the activation of some stress-related genes from both ABA-independent and ABA-dependent pathways in transgenic Arabidopsis. Furthermore, enhanced proline content and the activation of the P5CS1 gene implied that FtMYB9 may be involved in proline synthesis in plants. Collectively, these results suggest that FtMYB9 functions as a novel R2R3-MYB TF which plays positive roles in salt and drought tolerance by regulating different stress-responsive signaling pathways.
Although various treatments have been used for weight loss to date, obese people rarely have safe and effective treatment options. Therefore, the antiobesity effects of several natural compounds are being actively investigated. This study was conducted to investigate the antiadipogenic effects of Monascus ruber-fermented Fagopyrum esculentum (red yeast buckwheat, RYB) in 3T3-L1 cells. We assessed the intracellular lipid content and adipocyte differentiation by oil red O staining and the expression of genes and proteins associated with adipocyte differentiation by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blotting in 3T3-L1 cells. RYB dose dependently inhibited 3T3-L1 cell differentiation at concentrations of 50-800 μg/mL, without cytotoxic effects. It also suppressed the expression of adipogenic transcription factors, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α, and adipocyte-specific genes, such as adipocyte fatty acid-binding protein (aP2), fatty acid synthase, and leptin, during preadipocyte differentiation into adipocytes. Furthermore, RYB reduced cyclin-dependent kinase 2 and cyclin expression and increased p21 and p27 expression, thus causing cell cycle arrest at the G1/S phase. Collectively, these results suggest that RYB may be an effective nutraceutical for weight loss as indicated by its ability to suppress adipogenesis-specific gene expression and cause cell cycle arrest at the G1/S interphase.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disease, of which β-amyloid (Aβ) induced toxicity was suggested as a main cause. Some substances with prolongevity effects have been shown to be protective against AD. In a previous study we demonstrated that a recombinant buckwheat trypsin inhibitor (rBTI) could prolonge the lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans). Here, we investigated whether rBTI may benefit to mitigate the AD symptom by feeding the AD model C. elegans CL4176. CL4176 is a transgenic C. elegans expressing human Aβ
Tartary buckwheat is a strongly abiotic, resistant coarse cereal, but its tolerance mechanisms for stress are largely unknown. MYB transcription factors play key roles in various physiological, biochemical and molecular responses, which can both positively and negatively regulate the stress tolerance of plants. In this study, we report that the expression of FtMYB10, a R2R3-MYB gene from Tartary buckwheat, was induced significantly by ABA and drought treatments. A seed germination test under ABA treatment indicated that transgenic lines were less sensitive to ABA. The overexpression of FtMYB10 in Arabidopsis reduced drought and salt tolerance. Further studies showed that the proline contents in the transgenic plants are markedly decreased associated with reduced expression of the P5CS1 gene under both normal and stress conditions. Furthermore, the expression of some stress-responsive genes, including DREB1/CBFs, RD29B, RD22, and several genes of the DRE/CRT class, decreased in response to FtMYB10 overexpression in Arabidopsis. These results suggest that FtMYB10 may play a key role in ABA signaling feedback regulation and act as a novel negative regulator of salt and drought stress tolerance in plants.
An excess of dietary salt is the most common factor that contributes to the pathogenesis of hypertension. Dietary management is deemed critical to prevent and treat hypertension. We aimed at evaluating the preventive effect of the buckwheat (BW)-enriched diet on high salt-induced elevation of blood pressure (BP) and renal injury in order to provide a new focus on the design of strategies to prevent hypertension. Control, high salt (HS)-treated (8%), HS + tartary buckwheat (TB) (8% HS + 15% TB), and a group of HS + common buckwheat (CB) (8% HS + 15% CB) rats were used for 7 weeks. BP was monitored periodically during the study by the tail cuff method. HS intake caused a significant increase of BP, the level of serum Na(+) compared to the control group. BW significantly prevented the increase of BP, attenuated oxidative damage, and improved Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity in HS treated rats. These results show that a diet supplemented with whole BW has beneficial effects on hypertension, by decreasing blood pressure values and oxidative stress.
Eight R2R3 - MYB genes in tartary buckwheat were identified, and their expression patterns were comprehensively analyzed, which reveals role in plant response to abiotic stresses. The proteins of the R2R3-MYB superfamily play key roles in the growth and development processes as well as defense responses in plants. However, their characteristics and functions have not been fully investigated in tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), a strongly abiotic resistant coarse cereal. In this article, eight tartary buckwheat R2R3-MYB genes were isolated with full-length cDNA and DNA sequences. Phylogenetic analysis of the members of the R2R3-MYB superfamily between Arabidopsis and tartary buckwheat revealed that the assumed functions of the eight tartary buckwheat R2R3-MYB proteins are divided into five Arabidopsis functional subgroups that are involved in abiotic stress. Expression analysis during abiotic stress and exogenous phytohormone treatments identified that the eight R2R3-MYB genes responded to one or more treatments. This study is the first comprehensive analysis of the R2R3-MYB gene family in tartary buckwheat under abiotic stress.
Oxidative stress plays a crucial role in chronic complication of diabetes. In this study, the protective effect of purified tartary buckwheat flavonoids (TBF) fraction against oxidative stress induced by a high-glucose challenge, which causes insulin resistance, was investigated on hepatic HepG2 cells. Oxidative status, phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), nuclear factor E2 related factor 2 (Nrf2) and p-(Ser307)-IRS-1 expression, and glucose uptake were evaluated. Results suggest that treatment of HepG2 cells with TBF alone improved glucose uptake and antioxidant enzymes, and activated Nrf2, and attenuated the IRS-1 Ser307 phosphorylation, and enhanced total levels of IRS-1. Furthermore, the high glucose-induced changes in antioxidant defences, Nrf2, p-MAPKs, p-IRS1 Ser307, and IRS-1 levels, and glucose uptake were also significantly inhibited by pre-treatment with TBF. Interestingly, the selective MAPK inhibitors significantly enhanced the TBF-mediated protection by inducing changes in the redox status, glucose uptake, p-(Ser307) and total IRS-1 levels. This report firstly showed that TBF could recover the redox status of insulin-resistant HepG2 cells, suggesting that TBF significantly protected the cells against high glucose-induced oxidative stress, and these beneficial effects of TBF on redox balance and insulin resistance were mediated by targeting MAPKs.
C-repeat-binding factor (CBF)/dehydration-responsive element (DREB) transcription factors play key roles in plant stress responses. However, little information is available on the regulation of CBF/DREB expression. In this study, we isolated and characterized the FeDREB1 promoter sequence from the common buckwheat accession Xinong 9976. To identify the upstream region of the FeDREB1 gene required for promoter activity, we constructed a series of FeDREB1 promoter deletion derivatives. Each deletion construct was analyzed through Agrobacterium-mediated transient transformation in tobacco leaves treated with 4°C cold or drought stress. Promoter-beta-glucuronidase fusion assays revealed that the pCD1 (-270 bp) deletion in the upstream region of FeDREB1 could activate expression of the GUS gene at 4°C. The pCD1 (-270 bp), pCD2 (-530 bp), and pCD3 (-904 bp) deletion induced low-level GUS expression under drought stress. However, the pCD4 (-1278 bp) deletion clearly activated GUS gene expression. Our results suggest that sections pCD1 (-270 bp) and pCD4 (-1278 bp) in the FeDREB1 gene promoter are new sources of induced promoters for adversity-resistance breeding in plant genetic engineering.
We investigated the effects of tartary buckwheat (TB, Fagopyrum tataricum) on the production of pro-inflammatory mediators in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)- and interferon (IFN)-γ-stimulated RAW264.7 cells. We evaluated the anti-inflammatory effects of TB against the LPS- and IFN-γ-stimulated inflammatory response in RAW264.7 macrophage cells. We fractionated TB to obtain 4 fractions including the n-hexane, methylene chloride, ethyl acetate (EtOAc), and n-butanol fractions. In addition, rutin was isolated and identified from the EtOAc fraction. The 4 fractions and rutin effectively inhibited the production of reactive oxygen species, nitric oxide (NO), and interleukin-6. In addition, the mRNA expression levels of pro-inflammatory factors including nuclear factor kappa B, cyclooxygenase-2, and inducible NO synthase were down-regulated in LPS- and IFN-γ-stimulated RAW264.7 cells following treatment with the 4 fractions and rutin. The present study suggests that TB could induce anti-inflammation by regulating the expression of inflammatory mediators.
Buckwheat powder or protein has been shown to decrease the total serum cholesterol level in non-diabetic mice or rats. However, the lipid-lowering effect of buckwheat bran extract (BBE) in diabetic mice has not been fully elucidated. KK-A(y) mice that received six-week treatment with BBE showed decreased body weight and liver weight compared to those of control (vehicle) mice. However, there was no significant difference in food intake. BBE treatments prevented liver triglyceride accumulation and decreased the serum level of triglycerides. In addition, mRNA expression levels lipogenic enzyme genes, fatty acid synthase, acetyl-coenzyme a oxidase and stearyl-coenzyme a desaturase 1, but not those of β-oxidized enzyme genes, were decreased in BBE-treated mice. Level of transcription factors ChREBP and SREBP1c, transcripts of lipogenic genes, were also decreased in BBE-treated mice. These results suggest that chronic treatment with BBE derivatives could have beneficial effects on hypertriglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Arabidopsis thaliana APETALA3 (AP3) and Antirrhinum majus DEFICIENS (DEF) MADS box genes are required to specify petal and stamen identity. AP3 and DEF are members of the euAP3 lineage, which arose by gene duplication coincident with radiation of the core eudicots. In order to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying organ development in early diverging clades of core eudicots, we isolated and identified an AP3 homolog, FaesAP3, from Fagopyrum esculentum (buckwheat, Polygonaceae), a multi-food-use pseudocereal with healing benefits. Protein sequence alignment and phylogenetic analyses revealed that FaesAP3 grouped into the euAP3 lineage. Expression analysis showed that FaesAP3 was transcribed only in developing stamens, and differed from AP3 and DEF, which expressed in developing petals and stamens. Moreover, ectopic expression of FaesAP3 rescued stamen development without complementation of petal development in an Arabidopsis ap3 mutant. Our results suggest that FaesAP3 is involved in the development of stamens in buckwheat. These results also suggest that FaesAP3 holds some potential for biotechnical engineering to create a male sterile line of F. esculentum.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) contains high concentrations of flavonoids. The flavonoids are mainly represented by rutin, anthocyanins and proanthocyanins in tartary buckwheat. R2R3-type MYB transcription factors (TFs) play key roles in the transcriptional regulation of the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway. In this study, two TF genes, FtMYB1 and FtMYB2, were isolated from F. tataricum and characterized. The results of bioinformatic analysis indicated that the putative FtMYB1 and FtMYB2 proteins belonged to the R2R3-MYB family and displayed a high degree of similarity with TaMYB14 and AtMYB123/TT2. In vitro and in vivo evidence both showed the two proteins were located in the nucleus and exhibited transcriptional activation activities. During florescence, both FtMYB1 and FtMYB2 were more highly expressed in the flowers than any other organ. The overexpression of FtMYB1 and FtMYB2 significantly enhanced the accumulation of proanthocyanidins (PAs) and showed a strong effect on the target genes' expression in Nicotiana tabacum. The expression of dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) was upregulated to 5.6-fold higher than that of control, and the expression level was lower for flavonol synthase (FLS). To our knowledge, this is the first functional characterization of two MYB TFs from F. tataricum that control the PA pathway.
Buckwheat has been considered as a potential source of nutraceutical components on the world market of probiotic foodstuffs. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) sprouts on oxidation and pro-inflammatory mediators. The anti-oxidant effects of buckwheat extract (BWE) and rutin were evaluated by using 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH)- and nitric oxide (NO)-scavenging activities, serum peroxidation and chelating assays. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW264.7 cells were used to evaluate anti-inflammatory activities of buckwheat and rutin. NO production in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells was determined by using Griess reagent. The expressions of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) p65 subunit in cytosolic and nuclear portions were determined by Western blot analysis. Also, the production of inflammatory cytokines interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) was determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Inhibitory concentration 50 values for DPPH- and NO-scavenging activities of BWE were 24.97 and 72.54 μg/mL respectively. BWE inhibited serum oxidation and possessed chelating activity. Furthermore, BWE inhibited IL-6 and TNF-α production in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells. Also, BWE inhibited iNOS and COX-2 expression and NF-κB p65 translocation. Buckwheat sprouts possessed strong antioxidant activity and inhibited production of pro-inflammatory mediators in the applied model systems. Thus, buckwheat can be suggested to be beneficial in inflammatory diseases by inhibiting the free radicals and inflammatory mediators.
Buckwheat sprouts contain various bioactive compounds including rutin which have a number of biological activities. We have previously shown that buckwheat sprouts (TBWE) treated with methyl jasmonate (MeJA) significantly increased the amount of phenolics and the antioxidant activity. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the effect of TBWE on anti-adipogenesis and pro-oxidant enzyme in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. We also evaluated the anti-oxidative activity of TBWE in adipocytes by using the nitroblue tetrazolium assay. Our data showed that TBWE markedly inhibited adipocyte differentiation and ROS production in 3T3-L1 cells compared with control groups. Moreover, TBWE has strongly shown the inhibition of adipogenic transcription factor as well as pro-oxidant enzymes. Together, we demonstrate that the MeJA treatment significantly increased the amount of phenolic compound, resulting in the suppression of adipogenesis and ROS production in the 3T3-L1 cells. These findings indicate that TBWE has the potential for anti-adipogenesis activity with anti-oxidative properties.
Common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench) is rich in phenolic compounds and may be useful for the treatment of metabolic syndrome in humans. To improve the production of rutin in buckwheat, we overexpressed the flavonol-specific transcription factor, AtMYB12 using Agrobacterium rhizogenes into hairy root culture systems. This induced the expression of flavonoid biosynthetic genes encoding phenylalanine ammonia lyase, cinnamate 4-hydroxylase, 4-coumarate:CoA ligase, chalcone synthase, chalcone isomerase, flavone 3-hydroxylase, flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase, and flavonol synthase. This led to the accumulation of rutin in buckwheat hairy roots up to 0.9 mg/g dry wt. PAP1 expression, however, did not correlate with the production of rutin.
Using RACE with a Fagopyrum dibotrys callus cDNA library, one clone, named FdMYBP1, encoding a putative R2R3 MYB protein was identified. FdMYBP1 appeared to be a full-length cDNA of 1159 bp encoding a protein of 265 amino acids. Through structure and property analysis of FdMYBPI with bioinformational methods, it was found that the amino acid sequence of FdMYBP1 showed great homology to other MYBP with the R2R3 repeat region in the N-terminus. Southern blot analysis indicated that FdMYBP1 belongs to a single copy gene in F. dibotrys genomes. The FdMYBP1 gene has the same classic characters with other MYBP and probably involved in the pathway of flavonoid metabolisms.
Effects of buckwheat germinated for 48 h in suppressing fatty liver were investigated using an animal study. Concentration of rutin was increased more than 10 times, with production of quercitrin and one newly formed flavonoid during 48 h germination. When an ethanol extract of germinated buckwheat was fed daily to C57BL/6 mice at 100 or 200 mg/kg body wt, along with a high-fat diet, oral administration of germinated buckwheat caused significant reductions in TG and TC levels in the liver after 8 weeks. Oral administration of germinated buckwheat also down-regulated mRNA expressions of PPARgamma and C/EBPalpha in hepatocytes, in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that germinated buckwheat has potent anti-fatty liver activities caused partially by suppressing the gene expression of certain adipogenic transcription factors like PPARgamma and C/EBPalpha in hepatocytes.
In a previous study, we showed that tartary buckwheat flavonoid (TBF) induced HL-60 leukemic cell apoptosis, most likely via a caspase 3 activating pathway. The aim of this study was to further investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in TBF-induced apoptosis of HL-60 cells. Thus, death receptor Fas expression on HL-60 cells was detected by flow cytometry (FCM). We also studied the effect of TBF on intranuclear DNA binding activity of NF-kappaB, as well as release of mitochondrial cytochrome c into the cytosol in HL-60 cells by FCM. The results suggest that TBF-induced apoptosis of HL-60 cells may be stimulated by the release of cytochrome c to the cytosol, upregulation of Fas expression on the cell surface, and through a caspase-3-dependent mechanism. Furthermore, TBF-induced apoptosis may be partly regulated through the inactivation of NF-kappaB in HL-60 cells. The induction of apoptosis by TBF may be attributed to its cancer chemopreventive activity.
We performed phylogenetic analyses of Fagopyrum species in the urophyllum group based on nucleotide sequences of two nuclear genes, FLORICAULA/LEAFY (FLO/LFY) and AGAMOUS (AG), and three segments of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA), rbcL-accD, trnK intron, and trnC-rpoB spacer. The FLO/LFY and AG sequences turned out to be phylogenetically more informative at the intrageneric level than the cpDNA sequences. Congruence among these gene trees, inferred by a maximum-likelihood (ML) method, demonstrated that topologies were partially incongruent between the nuclear and chloroplast DNA phylogenies. The nuclear DNA sequence data supported a monophyletic relation of F. statice, F. gilesii, and F. jinshaense, whereas the former two species formed another monophyletic relation with the F. capillatum-F. gracilipes-F. gracilipedoides-F. rubifolium clade excluding F. jinshaense in the synthetic cpDNA phylogeny. In addition, two divergent sequences of FLO/LFY were found in F. rubifolium (tetraploid). One of these was sister to F. gracilipedoides and another was sister to F. statice, and a monophyletic relation of these two genes was rejected by a bootstrap analysis. These results suggest that hybridization may have occurred during diversification of Fagopyrum species in the urophyllum group, and that F. rubifolium is possibly allotetraploid species.
By a series of conventional chromatographic procedures we have purified from whole-cell extracts of Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast transcription factor IID (TFIID), which functionally substitutes for human TFIID in a complementation assay comprised of the adenovirus type 2 major late promoter and HeLa cell-derived RNA polymerase II, transcription factors IIA, IIB, and IIE. Similar to its human counterpart, yeast TFIID also exhibited specific binding to the adenovirus type 2 major late promoter TATA element, as shown by both DNase I footprinting and gel mobility shift assays. NaDodSO4/PAGE analyses showed that a 27-kDa polypeptide coeluted with TFIID complementing activity through each chromatographic step. In agreement with this result and also suggesting that the native protein is a monomer, gel-filtration experiments indicated a molecular mass of 28 kDa for TFIID under nondenaturing conditions. That the 27-kDa polypeptide represented TFIID was further demonstrated by the ability of an HPLC-purified protein to bind specifically after renaturation to the adenovirus type 2 major late promoter TATA sequence.
It is still unclear how polystyrene nanoplastics (Ps-NPs) go through plant cell, and its physiological consequence and molecular mechanisms. To address this issue, the seedlings of tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) were exposed to hydroponic solution with 100 mg/L fluorescent-labeled Ps-NPs (100-nm diameter) across 0-2-4-6-8 days. Laser confocal microscopy, scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscope illuminated that Ps-NPs can go through root cells and cause significant physiological responses with time. Substantial redox reactions in root cells were significantly negatively associated with plant physiological parameters. Particularly, reactive oxygen species content rapidly increased with time, which activated the differential overexpression of specific aquaporin family genome (transcriptome analyses). Gene expression network analyses demonstrated that the aquaporin FtPIP2;8 (FT01Gene33590.t1) was identified as a core gene, mediating transport proteins or co-factors to drive the across-membrane transport of Ps-NPs. Moreover, there existed a clear co-localization and molecular docking simulations of FtPIP2;8 and Ps-NPs, a key mechanism causing above events, and it revealed the potential regulatory module of FtERF98-FtPIP2;8 by co-expression network analysis and dual luciferase reporter experiment. Here, we provided a key genomic mechanism regarding the targeted transport proteins activated by Ps-NPs for understanding environmental risk of Ps-NPs.
Buckwheat is a promising crop with grains that are rich in nutrients and bioactive compounds. Genome sequence data for common and Tartary buckwheat have recently become available. Currently, there is a critical need for the development of a simple and reliable transient gene expression protocol, as well as a stable genetic transformation method, to facilitate metabolic engineering of bioactive compounds, functional analysis of genes, targeted editing, and, in a long-term perspective, to accelerate the breeding process in buckwheat. In this paper, we report optimized methods for
Drought stress is a major constraint on seed germination and crop productivity, particularly for drought-sensitive crops like common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum). Exogenous melatonin has emerged as a promising strategy to mitigate drought stress by enhancing plant physiological and biochemical responses. However, its specific roles in regulating antioxidant defenses, osmotic adjustment, and plant compounds biosynthesis during buckwheat seed germination under drought stress remain poorly understood. This study investigated the effects of 200 µM exogenous melatonin on common buckwheat germination under polyethylene glycol (PEG-6000)-induced drought stress. Melatonin significantly improved germination rates and radicle growth, reduced membrane damage, and enhanced osmotic regulation by increasing proline, soluble sugars, and proteins. Antioxidant enzyme activities (catalase, peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase) and associated gene expression (FtCAT, FtPOD, FtSOD) were markedly upregulated. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations revealed a stable interaction between rutin, a secondary metabolite, and catalase, suggesting enhanced enzyme stabilization. Additionally, melatonin increased rutin and methyl jasmonate synthesis, which contributed to antioxidant defenses and reduced oxidative damage. The coordinated effects of melatonin improved drought tolerance in buckwheat seeds by optimizing osmotic balance, strengthening antioxidant capacity, and stabilizing cellular structures. Exogenous melatonin enhances drought tolerance in common buckwheat seeds through the coordinated regulation of antioxidant defenses, osmotic adjustment, and plant compounds production, including methyl jasmonate and rutin, during germination. These findings offer valuable insights for developing practical strategies to improve drought resilience and crop establishment in sensitive agricultural species under water-limited conditions.
Plants have endured evolutionary changes for hundreds of years under the impact of increasing abiotic and biotic stress due to increasing human activities over the past centuries. Scientists have been working to understand the molecular mechanisms of plant responses to severe environmental stress, as plants have complex molecular arrangements to respond and adapt to abiotic stress, including drought, cold, and heat stress. Buckwheat (Fagopyrum spp.) is a resilient pseudocereal known for its nutritional value and adaptability to various environmental conditions, making it an essential crop in sustainable agriculture. It is particularly noted for its gluten-free nature and high-quality protein content, which benefit those with gluten sensitivities. However, recent studies revealed that buckwheat cultivation faces significant challenges from abiotic stressors such as drought, salinity, temperature extremes, and heavy metal toxicity, which can adversely affect its growth and yield. We have acknowledged key genes and factors in regulating complex responses and tolerance of plants in response to abiotic stresses. We compiled new data about diverse mechanisms by which different Fagopyrum species manage abiotic stress, encompassing physiological, biochemical, and molecular adaptations. As global food production demands rise, effective management strategies for these stress factors are increasingly critical for optimising buckwheat production and ensuring food security in a changing climate.
Chalcone synthase (CHS) functions as a pivotal and initiating enzyme in the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway within plants, playing a crucial role in the accumulation and metabolic processes of flavonoids. Despite its importance, there has been no comprehensive analysis or detailed description of the Based on a comprehensive analysis using multiple bioinformatics approaches and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) technology, this study systematically identified and characterized the In this study, we identified a total of 14 Our study indicated that
Fagopyrum tataricum (Tartary buckwheat) is known for its high phenolic content, particularly rutin. High concentrations of these compounds secreted in the tissue culture medium can lead to its darkening and the eventual death of explants in in vitro cultures. This study aims to enhance the morphogenesis of F. tataricum callus cultures by utilising phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) inhibitors and polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) to mitigate oxidative browning and improve tissue viability. We analysed the response of protoplasts isolated from morphogenic callus to media supplemented with varying concentrations of PAL inhibitors (AIP, AOPP, OBHA) and PVP. The flow cytometry results revealed that 10 µM AIP and 1% PVP yielded exclusively diploid plants, whereas higher concentrations (100 µM AIP and 3% PVP) failed to regenerate plants. Moreover, AOPP and OBHA addition resulted in the regeneration of tetraploid plants. Further analysis of proembryogenic cell complexes (PECCs) isolated from Tartary buckwheat morphogenic calli responses to AIP and PVP indicated that 100 µM AIP was most effective for plant regeneration. Metabolomic analysis showed that AIP treatments reduced phenolic compounds, notably rutin, and increased the GSH/GSSG ratio, indicating reduced oxidative stress. Gene expression analysis highlighted elevated expression of somatic embryogenesis-related genes (LEC2, BBM) and WUSCHEL in AIP-treated callus. This study demonstrates that AIP enhances the regeneration potential of F. tataricum callus cultures, offering valuable insights for optimising tissue culture techniques for industrial crops. Additionally, we have detailed the metabolomic changes in calli treated with PVP and AIP, highlighting their impact on metabolism.
Carotenoid cleavage oxygenases (CCOs) convert carotenoids into volatile aromatic compounds implicated in plant growth and development. They affect the synthesis of hormones, including abscisic acid (ABA) and strigolactone (SL). However, the CCO family in Tartary buckwheat remains unelucidated. We identified the FtCCO gene family based on Tartary buckwheat genomic data and analyzed the biological function of the FtCCO genes using bioinformatics methods and the expression pattern of the gene using fluorescence quantitative PCR. Three pairs of fragment duplication genes were found in FtCCOs, and the motifs were highly conserved within the same subfamily. FtCCO genes are closely related to the dicotyledonous Arabidopsis thaliana, which has the highest number of co-linear genes. The qRT-PCR showed that among the tissue-specific expression patterns of Tartary buckwheat CCO genes, the expression of the FtCCOs was higher in the leaves. In Tartary buckwheat grain development, the relative expression of most FtCCOs was higher at the later stage. The relative expression of many genes was higher in the stems under cold, dark, NaCl, and abiotic stress conditions. However, under the hormone and plant growth regulator treatments, the expression of the nine FtCCOs was relatively low in the stems. Notably, the relative expression of FtNCED4 was extremely high under abiotic stress and hormone induction, indicating that FtNCED4 may be involved in the growth and development of Tartary buckwheat. In this study, the FtCCO family genes of Tartary buckwheat were identified at the genome-wide level, and the gene expression pattern of the FtCCO gene family in different tissues or treatments was determined. This study provides a theoretical basis for further analysis of the functions of theFtCCO family, which is of great significance for the mining of resistance genes and trait improvement.
The presence of toxic heavy metals lead (Pb) and cadmium (Cd) in polluted soil damage crop production and consequently harms human and livestock health. Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is a potential model plant for heavy metal phytoremediation because of its valuable characteristics of high heavy metal tolerance and abundant biomass production. Here, we report that the Tartary buckwheat FtMYB46-FtNRAMP3 module enhances plant Pb and Cd tolerance. RNA sequencing analysis showed that Pb treatment specifically induced expression of FtNRAMP3, a member of the NRAMP (Natural Resistance-Associated Macrophage Protein) transporter gene family. Further cytological and biochemical analysis revealed that FtNRAMP3 was localised to the plasma membrane and significantly contributed to increased tolerance to Pb and Cd in yeast cells. Consistently, transgenic overexpression of FtNRAMP3 in Arabidopsis significantly increased plant tolerance to Pb and Cd applications, reducing Pb concentration but increasing Cd concentration in the overexpression transgenic plants. Subsequent yeast one-hybrid and electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that the transcription factor FtMYB46 directly binds to the FtNRAMP3 promoter. Further, FtMYB46 promoted FtNRAMP3 expression and increased plant Pb and Cd tolerance. Overall, this study demonstrates the important role of the FtMYB46-FtNRAMP3 module and its potential value in the phytoremediation of Pb and Cd stress.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn, TB) is an annual multigrain crop belonging to the genus Fagopyrum within the Polygonaceae family. TB is valued for its balanced nutrient composition and high flavonoid content, particularly rutin, which possesses various health and medicinal benefits. Therefore, rutin has become a critical trait in determining the quality of TB. The rutin content (RC) of 101 natural TB materials measured in this study ranged from 14.08 to 24.50 mg/g, with an average value of 19.46 mg/g. This result revealed substantial natural variation in RC within the TB population. Furthermore, 314,166 high-quality single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified through whole-genome resequencing. Population structure analysis demonstrated that genetic information was consistent among the samples, while significant structural differences were observed among the groups. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) employing a mixed linear model (MLM) identified the SNP site Ft4:1777524 as significantly associated with rutin levels. Within the 400 kb candidate region, 27 key genes were identified. Further joint analysis of previous transcriptome data revealed that FtS1Fa1 is closely linked to RC. Molecular biological characterization revealed that this gene belongs to the S1Fa-like family, is localized in chloroplasts, but lacks transcriptional activation capabilities. Functional studies indicated that FtS1Fa1 can promote rutin accumulation in TB by upregulating the expression of the rutin biosynthesis gene. In conclusion, this study enhances the understanding of the regulatory mechanisms governing rutin biosynthesis in TB and provides important germplasm resources for the molecular breeding of high-rutin TB varieties.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is a traditional cereal crop cultivated in hilly, arid, cool mountainous regions. The bHLH transcription factors play a pivotal role in regulating flavonoid metabolism and enhancing resistance to extreme environments in Tartary buckwheat. However, the functional characterization of bHLH genes in this species remains incomplete. Previous research identified FtbHLH1 as an interacting partner of the key autophagy protein FtATG8a through yeast library screening. Yeast two-hybrid, bimolecular fluorescence complementation, and luciferase complementation imaging assays confirmed that FtbHLH1 interacts with FtATG8a. This interaction depends on the AIM motifs (LEWYYL and QSWHFV) present in FtbHLH1, with both proteins co-localizing in the nucleus. The expression of FtbHLH1 was significantly induced by drought stress (P < 0.05), and its overexpression led to increased drought tolerance in transgenic Tartary buckwheat hairy roots. RNA sequencing revealed that FtbHLH1 up-regulated genes associated with stress response (e.g., FtCu/ZnSOD) as well as those involved in abscisic acid and methyl jasmonate biosynthesis and signaling pathways (e.g., FtCYP707As, FtRD29B, and FtJAZs). Further analysis indicated that the overexpression of FtbHLH1 enhances drought stress tolerance by altering the activities of antioxidant enzymes and promoting proline accumulation in both transgenic Arabidopsis and Tartary buckwheat hairy roots. This study provides theoretical support for selecting drought-resistant Tartary buckwheat varieties by elucidating the role of FtbHLH1 in the response to drought stress.
Selenium (Se) is an essential trace element for human health, and dietary Se intake is an effective supplement. Rich in nutrients and functional components with potential for Se enrichment, Tartary buckwheat (
Cadmium (Cd) can adversely damage plant growth. Therefore, understanding the control molecular mechanisms of Cd accumulation will benefit the development of strategies to reduce Cd accumulation in plants. This study performed transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses on the roots of a Cd-tolerant Tartary buckwheat cultivar following 0 h (CK), 6 h (T1), and 48 h (T2) of Cd treatment. The fresh weight and root length were not significantly inhibited under the T1 treatment but they were in the T2 treatment. The root's ultrastructure was seriously damaged in T2 but not in T1 treatment. This was evidenced by deformed cell walls, altered shape and number of organelles. A total of 449, 999 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and eight, 37 differentially expressed metabolites (DEMs) were identified in the CK versus T1 and CK versus T2 comparison, respectively. DEGs analysis found that the expression of genes related to cell wall function, glutathione (GSH) metabolism, and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis changed significantly during Cd stress. Several WRKY, MYB, ERF, and bHLH transcription factors and transporters also responded to Cd treatment. Our results indicate that Cd stress affects cell wall function and GSH metabolism and that changes in these pathways might contribute to mechanisms of Cd tolerance in Tartary buckwheat.
Glycosyltransferase genes are organised as tandem repeats in the buckwheat genome, yet the functional implications and evolutionary significance of duplicated genes remain largely unexplored. In this study, gene family analysis revealed that FtUGT71K6 and FtUGT71K7 are tandem repeats in the buckwheat genome. Moreover, GWAS results for epicatechin suggested that this tandem repeat function was associated with epicatechin content of Tartary buckwheat germplasm, highlighting variations in the promoter haplotypes of FtUGT71K7 influenced epicatechin levels. FtUGT71K6 and FtUGT71K7 were shown to catalyse UDP-glucose conjugation to cyanidin and epicatechin. Furthermore, overexpression of FtUGT71K6 and FtUGT71K7 increased total antioxidant capacity and altered metabolite content of the epicatechin biosynthesis pathway, contributing to improved drought tolerance, while overexpression of FtUGT71K6 significantly improved salt stress tolerance. However, overexpression of these two genes did not contribute to resistance against Rhizoctonia solani. Evolutionary selection pressure analysis suggested positive selection of a critical amino acid ASP-53 in FtUGT71K6 and FtUGT71K7 during the duplication event. Overall, our study indicated that FtUGT71K6 and FtUGT71K7 play crucial roles in drought stress tolerance via modulating epicatechin synthesis in buckwheat.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), a functional grain known for its medicinal and nutritional properties, has garnered significant attention due to its high flavonoid content and unique health benefits. Heat stress during the flowering stage can lead to sterility in Tartary buckwheat, resulting in reduced yields. This study investigates the effects of a treatment (30/27 °C for 7 days) on flower development, fertility, stress physiology, and gene expression in Tartary buckwheat, while also validating the efficacy of hormone treatments in alleviating the negative effects of heat stress. The results show that fertilization in Tartary buckwheat typically occurs within 3-5 days post-anthesis. By the 5th day, the stamen length in the heat-treated group was reduced by 13.89% compared to the control, while pistil length increased by 35.44%. Heat stress delayed the pistil stigma's transition into its highly receptive phase and caused a significant reduction in pollen viability by 15.25% after 5 days of treatment. Furthermore, after 7 days of treatment, the levels of H
Tartary buckwheat is a nutrient-rich pseudo-cereal whose starch contents, including amylose and amylopectin contents, and their properties hold significant importance for enhancing yield and quality. The granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS) is a key enzyme responsible for the synthesis of amylose, directly determining the amylose content and amylose-to-amylopectin ratio in crops. Although one has already been cloned, the
Due to the totipotency of plant cells, which allows them to reprogram from a differentiated to a dedifferentiated state, plants exhibit a remarkable regenerative capacity, including under in vitro culture conditions. When exposed to plant hormones, primarily auxins and cytokinins, explant cells cultured in vitro can undergo differentiation through callus formation. Protoplast culture serves as a valuable research model for studying these processes in detail. This knowledge is particularly relevant for improving common and Tartary buckwheat species. To gain deeper insights into the stages of cell development from protoplasts-such as cell division, cell colony formation, and microcalli development-we focused on analyzing proteomes, cell wall composition, and changes in the expression profiles of selected genes in Fagopyrum protoplast cultures. The results demonstrate a significant accumulation of somatic embryogenesis-related proteins like late embryogenesis abundant proteins (embryogenic protein-DC-8-like, seed biotin-containing protein) and endochitinases during the developmental path of protoplast-derived cultures. Additionally, we noted an extensive increase in seed storage proteins like vicilin, oleosins, and seed biotin-containing proteins during the culture. Investigation of somatic embryogenesis-associated transcription factors revealed massive up-regulation of LEAFY COTYLEDON1 for the 50th day of F. tataricum protoplast-derived cultures. However, for BABY BOOM, the transcription factor was noted to be down-regulated during the development of cell colonies. Furthermore, we demonstrated the variable distribution of cell wall components like pectin side chains, arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs) and extensins (EXTs), indicating the reorganisation of cell wall composition during the culture period. This study revealed changes correlating with regaining embryogenic competence during the development of Fagopyrum protoplast-derived cell colonies. Our findings revealed variable expression levels of genes and proteins associated with somatic embryogenesis. This analysis identified an increase in seed storage proteins that play a significant role in the somatic somatic embryogenesis pathway of regeneration. Furthermore, the relationship between transcription factors and these processes seems to be connected with regaining somatic cells' totipotency and promoting embryogenic competence of protoplast-derived cell colonies. Additionally, we observed dynamic changes in cell wall composition during the development of the protoplast-derived cultures. Not applicable.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is an important crop used for edible food and medicinal usage. Drought annually brings reduction in crop yield and quality, causing enormous economic losses. Transcription factors are often involved in the regulation of plant responses to environmental stresses. In this study, we identified 233 MYB transcription factors in tartary buckwheat and classified them into 13 groups, including 1R, R2R3, 3R, 4R types. Gene structure and conserved motifs of these 233 FtMYBs suggested the relative conservation of these FtMYBs within each group. There is strong collinearity within the genomes of F. tataricum, with identifying syntenic gene pairs of FtMYB. Further, the expansion of FtMYB genes was attributed to whole genome duplication. The enrichment analysis of cis-acting elements in the FtMYB genes indicated that FtMYBs may participate in abiotic stress responses. The transcriptional changes of FtMYB genes in tartary buckwheat were then investigated using public data and qPCR. A number of FtMYB genes exhibited apparent transcript levels in the detected tissues and most of them disturbed their expression after the treatment of PEG6000 or natural treatment of tartary buckwheat seedlings. Some of the FtMYB genes showed a similar expression trend with qPCR validation. FtMYB gene FtPinG0005108900.01 were shown to activated by PEG6000 and natural drought treatment, and its encoded protein localizes to nucleus, revealing it as a typical transcription factor. Overexpression of FtPinG0005108900.01 increase the drought tolerance, and transcriptome analysis indicated that lignin synthesis other than flavonoid biosynthesis pathway was activated in the overexpressing plants following drought treatment. Our results provided detailed evolution and comparative genomic information of FtMYBs in tartary buckwheat and dissected the function of a FtMYB gene FtPinG0005108900.01 in response to drought.
Polylactic acid (PLA) microplastics (MPs) and lead (Pb) co-contamination, an emerging co-contamination, may profoundly impact plant growth. We aimed to evaluate the effects of PLA-MPs and Pb on buckwheat growth and physiology and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms through an integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic approach. PLA-MPs alone reduced buckwheat biomass by 26.0 %, while combined exposure to Pb and PLA-MPs (PLA-Pb) further exacerbated morphological impairments, decreasing biomass by 43.1 % and 50.4 % compared to the control. Antioxidant enzyme activities increased under Pb and PLA-Pb treatments. The analysis revealed 536 differentially expressed metabolites (DEMs) and 3229 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in PLA-Pb vs. control, 168 DEMs and 1555 DEGs in PLA-Pb vs. PLA, and 196 DEMs and 4057 DEGs in PLA-Pb vs. Pb. Key DEGs involved in lignin biosynthesis, including caffeoyl-CoA-O-methyltransferase, cinnamoyl-CoA reductase, and catechol-O-methyltransferase, were upregulated, suggesting that buckwheat mitigates toxicity by enhancing cell wall modification. Similarly, DEGs and DEMs linked to jasmonate biosynthesis were enriched in the alpha-linolenic acid metabolic pathway, including allene oxide synthase, allene oxide cyclase, and 12-oxophytodienoate reductase, as well as methyl jasmonate. These results suggest that buckwheat counters PLA-MPs-Pb toxicity by enhancing oxidative stress responses and upregulating the synthesis of lignin and unsaturated fatty acids. In conclusion, this study provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of plant detoxification under PLA-MPs-Pb co-exposure, highlighting the need for ecological risk assessment of combined microplastic and heavy metal pollution.
Chitinases (CHIs) are glycosidases that degrade chitin, playing critical roles in plant responses to both abiotic and biotic stress. Despite their importance, the CHI family's systematic analysis and evolutionary pattern in F. tataricum (Tartary buckwheat) yet to be explored. This study analyzed their phylogenetic relationships, conserved motifs, gene structures, syntenic relationships, physiological functions, and biochemical properties. This research identified 26 FtCHIs and examined their expression patterns under different salt stress conditions and across various tissues. Differential expression analysis revealed a significant upregulation of multiple FtCHIs in response to salt stress, which RT-qPCR further validated. Additionally, subcellular localization experiments demonstrated that Ft_chitinaseIV-2 is localized in vacuoles. The results of transient·transformation showed that·overexpression of Ft_chitinaseIV-2 could·enhance the salt tolerance of plants. The findings provide new insights into the role of CHIs in stress tolerance and lay the groundwork for future research on the functional characterization of FtCHIs. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of CHI-mediated stress responses could contribute to developing stress-resistant crops.
The β-glucosidases (BGLU) of glycoside hydrolase family 1 hydrolyze the glycosidic bond to release β-D-glucose and related ligands, which are widely involved in important physiological processes in plants. Genome-wide analysis of the BGLU genes in the model crops Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa revealed that they are functionally diverse. In contrast, the BGLU gene family in Tartary buckwheat remains unclear. This study identified the FtBGLU gene family based on Tartary buckwheat genomic data and analyzed the biological function of the FtBGLU gene using bioinformatics methods and the expression pattern of the gene using fluorescence quantitative PCR. The results showed that 39 BGLU genes were identified in Tartary buckwheat, which were classified into 10 subfamilies and one unclassified group. They were unevenly distributed on 10 chromosomes, and seven tandem duplication events involving 19 FtBGLU genes were observed, which mainly occurred in subfamily II. Their physicochemical properties are highly variable; however, they have relatively conserved exon-intron structures and high sequence homology in the subfamily, and most of the FtBGLUs contain conserved motifs, among which the expression products FtBGLU1, FtBGLU17, FtBGLU19, FtBGLU21, FtBGLU22, and FtBGLU28 have no β-glucosidase activity. Additionally, we analyzed the tissue expression specificity of 10 FtBGLU genes during Tartary buckwheat growth and development and their expression patterns under adversity stress and hormone treatments. Revealing the important role of the BGLU gene family in Tartary buckwheat growth and development, as well as its response to adversity, provides strong support for further analysis of its regulatory mechanisms and functional applications. A total of 39 FtBGLU genes were identified. Bioinformatics analysis of the gene structure, evolutionary relationship, and expression pattern of the Fagopyrum tataricum BGLU gene family establishes a foundation for a better understanding and future research on the Tartary buckwheat BGLU gene family.
In this research, we investigated the physiological modifications, flavonoid metabolism, and antioxidant systems of two buckwheat (
The classic ABC model postulates how three classes of floral homeotic genes (A, B and C) work in a combinational way to confer organ identity to each whorl that make up a perfect flower in core eudicot plants. Fagopyrum esculentum (Polygonaceae) produces dimorphic flowers with single whorl showy tepals, representing a considerable difference with most core eudicots flowers. Here, we explain in detail the function of a duplicated pair of floral homeotic genes involved in the formation of tepals and stamens in the LH F. esculentum. FaesAP1_1 and FaesAP1_2 work together to specify tepal identity. FaesAP3_1/2 or FaesPI_1/2 have redundant function in specifying filament identity, while FaesAP3_2 and FaesPI_2 also retain a conserved role in specifying anther development and gain novel function in style length determination. However, FaesPI_1 gain novel function in floral color formation. In addition, FaesAG can directly regulate stamen and pistil development or binds to the CArG-box of pFaesPI_1 to indirectly regulate stamen and pistil development by a gene regulatory pathway involving FaesAP1_1/2, FaesAP3_1/2 and FaesPI_1/2. Moreover, FaesAP1_1/2 can directly or indirectly regulate B-class gene (FaesAP3_1/2 and FaesPI_1/2) expression to be involved in floral development. Our work has led to detailed insights into the MADS-box gene regulatory networks that control floral developmental process in LH F. esculentum.
The R2R3-MYB transcription factors (TFs) play a crucial role in regulating plant secondary metabolism and abiotic stress responses, yet they are still poorly understood in common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum), a valuable minor grain crop resource. In this study, a candidate gene, FeR2R3-MYB, was cloned from the anthocyanin-rich common buckwheat variety 'QZZTQ'. FeR2R3-MYB was found to contain two MYB DNA-binding domains and be located at the nucleus with transcriptional activation activity. Molecular analysis indicated that FeR2R3-MYB is predominantly expressed in flowering tissue and is highly responsive to environmental factors such as light, drought, and cold. In addition, the promoter of FeR2R3-MYB showed a positive correlation with fragment length. Further functional analysis suggested that FeR2R3-MYB not only participates in the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway by interacting with leucoanthocyanidin reductase (FeLAR), but also enhances drought tolerance in common buckwheat. To sum up, FeR2R3-MYB exhibits positive effects on both pigment production (e.g., anthocyanin) and abiotic stress resistance, providing valuable insights for future research in buckwheat molecular breeding and resource development.
Tartary buckwheat is known for its ability to adapt to intricate growth conditions and to possess robust stress-resistant properties. Nevertheless, it remains vulnerable to drought stress, which can lead to reduced crop yield. To identify potential genes involved in drought resistance, a genome-wide association study on drought tolerance in Tartary buckwheat germplasm was conducted. A gene encoding pectin methylesterase inhibitors protein (FtPMEI13) was identified, which is not only associated with drought tolerance but also showed induction during drought stress and abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. Further analysis revealed that overexpression of FtPMEI13 leads to improved drought tolerance by altering the activities of antioxidant enzymes and the levels of osmotically active metabolites. Additionally, FtPMEI13 interacts with pectin methylesterase (PME) and inhibits PME activity in response to drought stress. Our results suggest that FtPMEI13 may inhibit the activity of FtPME44/FtPME61, thereby affecting pectin methylesterification in the cell wall and modulating stomatal closure in response to drought stress. Yeast one-hybrid, dual-luciferase assays, and electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated that an ABA-responsive transcription factor FtbZIP46, could bind to the FtPMEI13 promoter, enhancing FtPMEI13 expression. Further analysis indicated that Tartary buckwheat accessions with the genotype resulting in higher FtPMEI13 and FtbZIP46 expression exhibited higher drought tolerance compared to the others. This suggests that this genotype has potential for application in Tartary buckwheat breeding. Furthermore, the natural variation of FtPMEI13 was responsible for decreased drought tolerance during Tartary buckwheat domestication. Taken together, these results provide basic support for Tartary buckwheat breeding for drought tolerance.
Ascorbic acid (ASC) is an important antioxidant in plant cells, being the main biosynthesis pathway is L-galactose or Smirnoff-Wheeler. ASC is involved in plant growth and development processes, being a cofactor and regulator of multiple signaling pathways in response to abiotic stresses. Aluminum toxicity is an important stressor under acidic conditions, affecting plant root elongation, triggering ROS induction and accumulation of hydrogen peroxide (H
Epigenetic changes accompany the dynamic changes in the cell wall composition during the development of callus cells. H3K4me3 is responsible for active gene expression and reaction to environmental cues. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) is a powerful technique for studying the interplay between epigenetic modifications and the DNA regions of interest. In combination with sequencing, it can provide the genome-wide enrichment of the specific epigenetic mark, providing vital information on its involvement in the plethora of cellular processes. Here, we describe the genome-wide distribution of H3K4me3 in morphogenic and non-morphogenic callus of
The auxin response factor (ARF) is a plant-specific transcription factor that regulates the expression of auxin response genes by binding directly to their promoters. They play an important role in the regulation of plant growth and development, as well as in the response to biotic and abiotic stresses. However, the identification and functional analysis of ARFs in Fagopyrum dibotrys are still unclear. In this study, a total of 26 FdARF genes were identified using bioinformatic methods. Their chromosomal location, gene structure, physical and chemical properties of their encoded protein, subcellular location, phylogenetic tree, conserved motifs and cis-acting elements in FdARF promoters were analyzed. The results showed that 26 FdARF genes were unevenly distributed on 8 chromosomes, with the largest distribution on chromosome 4 and the least distribution on chromosome 3. Most FdARF proteins are located in the nucleus, except for the proteins FdARF7 and FdARF21 located to the cytoplasm and nucleus, while FdARF14, FdARF16, and FdARF25 proteins are located outside the chloroplast and nucleus. According to phylogenetic analysis, 26 FdARF genes were divided into 6 subgroups. Duplication analysis indicates that the expansion of the FdARF gene family was derived from segmental duplication rather than tandem duplication. The prediction based on cis-elements of the promoter showed that 26 FdARF genes were rich in multiple stress response elements, suggesting that FdARFs may be involved in the response to abiotic stress. Expression profiling analysis showed that most of the FdARF genes were expressed in the roots, stems, leaves, and tubers of F. dibotrys, but their expression exhibits a certain degree of tissue specificity. qRT-PCR analysis revealed that most members of the FdARF gene were up- or down-regulated in response to abiotic stress. The results of this study expand our understanding of the functional role of FdARFs in response to abiotic stress and lay a theoretical foundation for further exploration of other functions of FdARF genes.
The diversity of secondary metabolites is an important means for plants to cope with the complex and ever-changing terrestrial environment. Plant biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs) are crucial for the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites. The domestication and evolution of BGCs and how they affect plant secondary metabolites biosynthesis and environmental adaptation are still not fully understood. Buckwheat exhibits strong resistance and abundant secondary metabolites, especially flavonoids, allowing it to thrive in harsh environments. A non-canonical BGC named UFGT3 cluster is identified, which comprises a phosphorylase kinase (PAK), two transcription factors (MADS1/2), and a glycosyltransferase (UFGT3), forming a complete molecular regulatory module involved in flavonoid biosynthesis. This cluster is selected during Tartary buckwheat domestication and is widely present in species of the Fagopyrum genus. In wild relatives of cultivated buckwheat, a gene encoding anthocyanin glycosyltransferase (AGT), which glycosylates pelargonidin into pelargonidin-3-O-glucoside, is found inserted into this cluster. The pelargonidin-3-O-glucoside can help plants resist UV stress, endowing wild relatives with stronger high-altitude adaptability. This study provides a new research paradigm for the evolutionary dynamics of plant BGCs, and offers new perspectives for exploring the mechanism of plant ecological adaptability driven by environmental stress through the synthesis of secondary metabolites.
Starch is the main component that determines the yield and quality of Tartary buckwheat. As a quantitative trait, using quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping to excavate genes associated with starch-related traits is crucial for understanding the genetic mechanisms involved in starch synthesis and molecular breeding of Tartary buckwheat varieties with high-quality starch. Employing a recombinant inbred line population as research material, this study used QTL mapping to investigate the amylose, amylopectin, and total starch contents across four distinct environments. The results identified a total of 20 QTLs spanning six chromosomes, which explained 4.07% to 14.41% of the phenotypic variation. One major QTL cluster containing three stable QTLs governing both amylose and amylopectin content,
Starch serves as a crucial energy source for both plants and humans, predominantly synthesized and stored in endosperms, tubers, rhizomes, and cotyledons. Given the significant role of amylose in determining the quality of starchy crops, optimizing its content has become a key objective in current crop breeding efforts. Tartary buckwheat, a dicotyledonous plant, notably accumulates high levels of amylose in its endosperm, surpassing common cereals like rice and maize. However, the mechanisms underlying amylose accumulation, distribution, and regulation in Tartary buckwheat remain unclear. Here, amylose content was determined across various tissues and organs of Tartary buckwheat, identifying with the endosperm as the primary site for its biosynthesis and accumulation. RNA sequencing analysis of endosperms from different developmental stages identified 35 genes potentially involved in starch biosynthesis, with 13 genes showing high endosperm-specific expression, suggesting crucial roles in starch biosynthesis. Additionally, the transcription factor FtNF-YB2, which was specifically highly expressed in the endosperm, was discovered to enhance amylose synthesis. Moreover, promoters with potential endosperm-specific activity were identified, advancing our understanding of amylose regulation. Additionally, this study also demonstrates that brassinosteroids (BR) positively influence amylose biosynthesis in Tartary buckwheat endosperm. These findings provide essential insights into the mechanisms of understanding amylose biosynthesis, accumulation and regulation in Tartary buckwheat, offering significant implications for future breeding strategies.
Abscisic acid (ABA) is a plant hormone that plays an important role in plant resistance to drought, salinity, cold, and pathogens. It is also important for regulating plant growth and development. Pyrabactin resistance/pyr1-like/regulatory components of the ABA receptor (PYL/RCAR) are ABA receptor proteins in plants and the core of ABA signal transduction pathways in plant regulatory factors. At present, there are no reports on the PYL family of Tartary buckwheat. In this study, 19 paralogous form PYL genes in buckwheat were identified at the whole-genome level and named FtPYL1-FtPYL19 according to their positions on chromosomes. We further analyzed the gene structure, conserved motifs, cis-acting elements, gene duplication, phylogenetic relationships, and expression patterns under different stress treatments and during grain development of the 19 paralogous form PYL genes in Tartary buckwheat. The FtPYL gene exhibits a single exonic gene structure for about 68.4% of the duplicated forms from the total paralogous forms. The remaining subfamilies, such as I and II, contain three exons and two exons (e.g., FtPYL19), respectively. Nineteen FtPYL genes were evenly distributed across the eight chromosomes, with at least one FtPYL gene on each chromosome. In the FtPYL gene family, there was one tandem repeat event and five gene duplication events. We investigated the gene expression levels of FtPYL gene under four abiotic stresses and different stages of grain development. Under drought stress (PEG6000), the relative expression levels of FtPYL14 and FtPYL15 increased by fourfold. Under high temperature stress (38℃), the relative expression level of FtPYL16 dropped to 0.12, and that of FtPYL17 fell to 0.22. At different stages of grain development, the gene expression level of FtPY15 is extremely high at 19 D. The relative expression level of FtPYL7 in roots and stems reaches up to approximately 450, and the relative expression level of FtPYL10 in 13 D also reaches up to 248. In this study, the PYL gene family of Tartary buckwheat was identified and analyzed based on the whole genome, and 19 paralogous form FtPYL genes of Tartary buckwheat were bioinformatically analyzed. The expression patterns of 19 paralogous form FtPYL genes in Tartary buckwheat cultivars under different stress treatments and during grain development were analyzed. It was found that the FtPYL gene played an important role in grain development.
To investigate the response and the regulatory mechanism of common buckwheat starch, amylose, and amylopectin biosynthesis to P management strategies, field experiments were conducted in 2021 and 2022 using three phosphorus (P) levels. Results revealed that the application of 75 kg hm
The objective of this research was to elucidate the hypocholesterolemic effects of a bioactive compound extracted from buckwheat, and to delineate its influence on the regulatory mechanisms of cholesterol metabolism. The compound under investigation was identified as quercetin. In vitro experiments conducted on HepG2 cells treated with quercetin revealed a significant reduction in intracellular cholesterol accumulation. This phenomenon was rigorously quantified by assessing the transcriptional activity of key genes involved in the biosynthesis and metabolism of cholesterol. A statistically significant reduction in the expression of HMG-CoA reductase (HMGCR) was observed, indicating a decrease in endogenous cholesterol synthesis. Conversely, an upregulation in the expression of cholesterol 7 alpha-hydroxylase (CYP7A1) was also observed, suggesting an enhanced catabolism of cholesterol to bile acids. Furthermore, the study explored the combinatory effects of quercetin and simvastatin, a clinically utilized statin, revealing a synergistic action in modulating cholesterol levels at various dosages. The findings from this research provide a comprehensive insight into the mechanistic pathways through which quercetin, a phytochemical derived from buckwheat, exerts its hypocholesterolemic effects. Additionally, the observed synergistic interaction between quercetin and simvastatin opens up new avenues for the development of combined therapeutic strategies to manage hyperlipidemia.
Proper flower development is essential for plant reproduction, a crucial aspect of the plant life cycle. This process involves precisely coordinating transcription factors, enzymes, and epigenetic modifications. DNA methylation, a ubiquitous and heritable epigenetic mechanism, is pivotal in regulating gene expression and shaping chromatin structure. Fagopyrum esculentum demonstrates anti-hypertensive, anti-diabetic, anti-inflammatory, cardio-protective, hepato-protective, and neuroprotective properties. However, the heteromorphic heterostyly observed in F. esculentum poses a significant challenge in breeding efforts. F. tataricum has better resistance to high altitudes and harsh weather conditions such as drought, frost, UV-B radiation damage, and pests. Moreover, F. tataricum contains significantly higher levels of rutin and other phenolics, more flavonoids, and a balanced amino acid profile compared to common buckwheat, being recognised as functional food, rendering it an excellent candidate for functional food applications. This study aimed to compare the DNA methylation profiles between the Pin and Thrum flower components of F. esculentum, with those of self-fertile species of F. tataricum, to understand the potential role of this epigenetic mechanism in Fagopyrum floral development. Notably, F. tataricum flowers are smaller than those of F. esculentum (Pin and Thrum morphs). The decline in DNA methylation levels in the developed open flower components, such as petals, stigmas and ovules, was consistent across both species, except for the ovule in the Thrum morph. Conversely, Pin and Tartary ovules exhibited a minor decrease in DNA methylation levels. The highest DNA methylation level was observed in Pin stigma from closed flowers, and the most significant decrease was in Pin stigma from open flowers. In opposition, the nectaries of open flowers exhibited higher levels of DNA methylation than those of closed flowers. The decrease in DNA methylation might correspond with the downregulation of genes encoding methyltransferases. Reduced overall DNA methylation and the expression of genes associated with these epigenetic markers in fully opened flowers of both species may indicate that demethylation is necessary to activate the expression of genes involved in floral development.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is an annual coarse cereal from the Polygonaceae family, known for its high content of flavonoid compounds, particularly rutin. But so far, the mechanisms of the flavonoid transport and storage in Tartary buckwheat (TB) remain largely unexplored. This study focuses on ATP-binding cassette transporters subfamily C (ABCC) members, which are crucial for the biosynthesis and transport of flavonoids in plants. The evolutionary and expression pattern analyses of the ABCC genes in TB identified an ABCC protein gene, FtABCC2, that is highly correlated with rutin synthesis. Subcellular localization analysis revealed that FtABCC2 protein is specifically localized to the vacuole membrane. Heterologous expression of FtABCC2 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae confirmed that its transport ability of flavonoid glycosides such as rutin and isoquercetin, but not the aglycones such as quercetin and dihydroquercetin. Overexpression of FtABCC2 in TB hairy root lines resulted in a significant increase in total flavonoid and rutin content (P < 0.01). Analysis of the FtABCC2 promoter revealed potential cis-acting elements responsive to hormones, cold stress, mechanical injury and light stress. Overall, this study demonstrates that FtABCC2 can efficiently facilitate the transport of rutin into vacuoles, thereby enhancing flavonoids accumulation. These findings suggest that FtABCC2 is a promising candidate for molecular-assisted breeding aimed at developing high-flavonoid TB varieties.
Distyly is an iconic floral polymorphism governed by a supergene, which promotes efficient pollen transfer and outcrossing through reciprocal differences in the position of sexual organs in flowers, often coupled with heteromorphic self-incompatibility. Distyly has evolved convergently in multiple flowering plant lineages, but has also broken down repeatedly, often resulting in homostylous, self-compatible populations with elevated rates of self-fertilization. Here, we aimed to study the genetic causes and genomic consequences of the shift to homostyly in Linum trigynum, which is closely related to distylous Linum tenue. Building on a high-quality genome assembly, we show that L. trigynum harbors a genomic region homologous to the dominant haplotype of the distyly supergene conferring long stamens and short styles in L. tenue, suggesting that loss of distyly first occurred in a short-styled individual. In contrast to homostylous Primula and Fagopyrum, L. trigynum harbors no fixed loss-of-function mutations in coding sequences of S-linked distyly candidate genes. Instead, floral gene expression analyses and controlled crosses suggest that mutations downregulating the S-linked LtWDR-44 candidate gene for male self-incompatibility and/or anther height could underlie homostyly and self-compatibility in L. trigynum. Population genomic analyses of 224 whole-genome sequences further demonstrate that L. trigynum is highly self-fertilizing, exhibits significantly lower genetic diversity genome-wide, and is experiencing relaxed purifying selection and less frequent positive selection on nonsynonymous mutations relative to L. tenue. Our analyses shed light on the loss of distyly in L. trigynum, and advance our understanding of a common evolutionary transition in flowering plants.
The zinc/iron-regulated transporter-like proteins (ZIP) family acts as an important transporter for divalent metal cations such as Zn, Fe, Mn, Cu, and even Cd. However, their condition is unclear in Tartary buckwheat (
The MADS-box gene family is a transcription factor family that is widely expressed in plants. It controls secondary metabolic processes in plants and encourages the development of tissues like roots and flowers. However, the phylogenetic analysis and evolutionary model of MADS-box genes in Fagopyrum species has not been reported yet. This study identified the MADS-box genes of three buckwheat species at the whole genome level, and conducted systematic evolution and physicochemical analysis. The results showed that these genes can be divided into four subfamilies, with fragment duplication being the main way for the gene family expansion. During the domestication process from golden buckwheat to tartary buckwheat and the common buckwheat, the Ka/Ks ratio indicated that most members of the family experienced strong purification selection pressure, and with individual gene pairs experiencing positive selection. In addition, we combined the expression profile data of the MADS genes, mGWAS data, and WGCNA data to mine genes FdMADS28/48/50 that may be related to flavonoid metabolism. The results also showed that overexpression of FdMADS28 could increase rutin content by decreasing Kaempferol pathway content in hairy roots, and increase the resistance and growth of hairy roots to PEG and NaCl. This study systematically analyzed the evolutionary relationship of MADS-box genes in the buckwheat species, and elaborated on the expression patterns of MADS genes in different tissues under biotic and abiotic stresses, laying an important theoretical foundation for further elucidating their role in flavonoid metabolism.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) belongs to Polygonaceae family and has attracted increasing attention owing to its high nutritional value. UDP-glycosyltransferases (UGTs) glycosylate a variety of plant secondary metabolites to control many metabolic processes during plant growth and development. However, there have been no systematic reports of UGT superfamily in F. tataricum. We identified 173 FtUGTs in F. tataricum based on their conserved UDPGT domain. Phylogenetic analysis of FtUGTs with 73 Arabidopsis UGTs clustered them into 21 families. FtUGTs from the same family usually had similar gene structure and motif compositions. Most of FtUGTs did not contain introns or had only one intron. Tandem repeats contributed more to FtUGTs amplification than segmental duplications. Expression analysis indicates that FtUGTs are widely expressed in various tissues and likely play important roles in plant growth and development. The gene expression analysis response to different abiotic stresses showed that some FtUGTs were involved in response to drought and cadmium stress. Our study provides useful information on the UGTs in F. tataricum, and will facilitate their further study to better understand their function. Our results provide a theoretical basis for further exploration of the functional characteristics of FtUGTs and for understanding the growth, development, and metabolic model in F. tataricum.
Tartary buckwheat, Fagopyrum tataricum, is a pseudocereal crop with worldwide distribution and high nutritional value. However, the origin and domestication history of this crop remain to be elucidated. Here, by analyzing the population genomics of 567 accessions collected worldwide and reviewing historical documents, we find that Tartary buckwheat originated in the Himalayan region and then spread southwest possibly along with the migration of the Yi people, a minority in Southwestern China that has a long history of planting Tartary buckwheat. Along with the expansion of the Mongol Empire, Tartary buckwheat dispersed to Europe and ultimately to the rest of the world. The different natural growth environments resulted in adaptation, especially significant differences in salt tolerance between northern and southern Chinese Tartary buckwheat populations. By scanning for selective sweeps and using a genome-wide association study, we identify genes responsible for Tartary buckwheat domestication and differentiation, which we then experimentally validate. Comparative genomics and QTL analysis further shed light on the genetic foundation of the easily dehulled trait in a particular variety that was artificially selected by the Wa people, a minority group in Southwestern China known for cultivating Tartary buckwheat specifically for steaming as a staple food to prevent lysine deficiency. This study provides both comprehensive insights into the origin and domestication of, and a foundation for molecular breeding for, Tartary buckwheat.
The present study is analysisof the seeds of buckwheat (Fagopyrum sp.),member of the Polygonaceae family for isolation of rutin and its anticancer property againstOsteosarcoma celllines (SAOS2). The selected plant is traditionally used for diabetes and cancer. It has several biological properties such as antibacterial, antioxidant and anti-aging. Thirty-five buckwheat cultivars were obtained from Nepal Agriculture Genetic Resources Centre (NAGRC) Khumaltar, Kathmandu, Nepal, and Kumrek Sikkim. These plant varieties are scientifically evaluated their biological properties. Rutin wasfractionated from buckwheat seeds using methanol fraction and analysed for quality by HPLC method. The rutin fraction of the cultivar NGRC03731 a tartary buck wheat and standard rutin was used against Osteosarcoma cell lines (SAOS2) and human gingival fibroblast cells (hGFs) for anticancer activity. The cell viability using rutin fraction and standard rutin treated with SAOS2 cells were assessed by MTT assay. For further research, the best doses (IC-50: 20 g/ml) were applied. By using AO/EtBr dual staining, the effects of Rutin fraction on SAOS2 cell death were analysed. The scratch wound healing assay was used to analyse cell migration. Real-time PCR was used to analyse the pro-/anti-apoptotic gene expression. The seeds with the highest rutin content, NGRC03731 seeds, had 433 mg/100 g of rutin.The rutin fraction treatment and standard rutin significantly reduced cell viability in the MTT assay, and osteosarcoma cells were observed on sensitive to the IC-50 dose at a concentration of 20 g/ml after 24 h.The SAOS2 cells exposed to rutin fraction at 20 g/ml and standard rutin at 10 g/ml exhibited significant morphological alterations, cell shrinkage and decreased cell density, which indicate apoptotic cells.Rutin-fraction treated cells stained with acridine orange/ethidium bromide (AO/EtBr) dual staining cells turned yellow, orange, and red which indicatesto measure apoptosis.The anti-migration potential of rutin fraction, results prevented the migration of SAOS2 cancer cells.Rutin-fraction significantly increased the expression of pro-apoptotic proteinsBad, using real-time PCR analysis (mRNA for Bcl-2 family proteins) resulted Bcl-2's expression is negatively regulated. Osteosarcoma (SAOS2) cell lines' proliferation, migration, and ability to proliferate were reduced markedly by rutin fraction and it also causes apoptosis of Osteosarcoma cell lines (SAOS2).
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is frequently employed as a resource to develop health foods, owing to its abundant flavonoids such as rutin. However, the consumption of Tartary buckwheat (TB) is limited in food products due to the strong bitterness induced by the hydrolysis of rutin into quercetin. This transformation is facilitated by the degrading enzyme (RDE). While multiple RDE isoenzymes exist in TB, the superior coding gene of FtRDEs has not been fully explored, which hinders the breeding of TB varieties with minimal bitterness. Here, we found that FtRDE2 is the most abundant enzyme in RDE crude extracts, and its corresponding gene is specifically expressed in TB seeds. Results showed that FtRDE2 has strong rutin hydrolysis activity. Overexpression of FtRDE2 not only significantly promoted rutin hydrolysis and quercetin accumulation but also dramatically upregulated genes involved in the early phase of flavonoid synthesis (FtPAL1、FtC4H1、Ft4CL1, FtCHI1) and anthocyanin metabolism (FtDFR1). These findings elucidate the role of FtRDE2, emphasizing it as an endogenous factor contributing to the bitterness in TB and its involvement in the metabolic regulatory network. Moreover, correlation analysis revealed a positive relationship between the catalytic activity of RDE extracts and the expression level of FtRDE2 during seed germination. In summary, our results suggest that FtRDE2 can serve as a promising candidate for the molecular breeding of a TB variety with minimal bitterness.
Rutin, a flavonoid rich in buckwheat, is important for human health and plant resistance to external stresses. The hydrolysis of rutin to quercetin underlies the bitter taste of Tartary buckwheat. In order to identify rutin hydrolysis genes, a 200 genotypes mini-core Tartary buckwheat germplasm resource was re-sequenced with 30-fold coverage depth. By combining the content of the intermediate metabolites of rutin metabolism with genome resequencing data, metabolite genome-wide association analyses (GWAS) eventually identified a glycosyl hydrolase gene FtGH1, which could hydrolyse rutin to quercetin. This function was validated both in Tartary buckwheat overexpression hairy roots and in vitro enzyme activity assays. Mutation of the two key active sites, which were determined by molecular docking and experimentally verified via overexpression in hairy roots and transient expression in tobacco leaves, exhibited abnormal subcellular localization, suggesting functional changes. Sequence analysis revealed that mutation of the FtGH1 promoter in accessions of two haplotypes might be necessary for enzymatic activity. Co-expression analysis and GWAS revealed that FtbHLH165 not only repressed FtGH1 expression, but also increased seed length. This work reveals a potential mechanism behind rutin metabolism, which should provide both theoretical support in the study of flavonoid metabolism and in the molecular breeding of Tartary buckwheat.
NAC transcription factors play a significant role in plant stress responses. In this study, an NAC transcription factor, with a CDS of 792 bp encoding 263 amino acids, was cloned from
Basic leucine zipper (bZIP) protein is a plant-specific transcription factor involved in various biological processes, including light signaling, seed maturation, flower development, cell elongation, seed accumulation protein, and abiotic and biological stress responses. However, little is known about the pea bZIP family. In this study, we identified 87 bZIP genes in pea, named PsbZIP1 ~ PsbZIP87, via homology analysis using Arabidopsis. The genes were divided into 12 subfamilies and distributed unevenly in 7 pea chromosomes. PsbZIPs in the same subfamily contained similar intron/exon organization and motif composition. 1 tandem repeat event and 12 segmental duplication events regulated the expansion of the PsbZIP gene family. To better understand the evolution of the PsbZIP gene family, we conducted collinearity analysis using Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa Japonica, Fagopyrum tataricum, Solanum lycopersicum, Vitis vinifera, and Brachypodium distachyon as the related species of pea. In addition, interactions between PsbZIP proteins and promoters containing hormone- and stress-responsive cis-acting elements suggest that the regulation of PsbZIP expression was complex. We also evaluated the expression patterns of bZIP genes in different tissues and at different fruit development stages, all while subjecting them to five hormonal treatments. These results provide a deeper understanding of PsbZIP gene family evolution and resources for the molecular breeding of pea. The findings suggested that PsbZIP genes, specifically PSbZIP49, play key roles in the development of peas and their response to various hormones.
Karst lands provide a poor substrate to support plant growth, as they are low in nutrients and water content. Common buckwheat (
Fagopyrum tataricum (L.) Gaertn is used as a folk medicine in many Asian countries due to its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and several other health-promoting properties. It is also prescribed to improve neurocognitive functions and alleviate inflammatory conditions. Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation plays a crucial role in neurodegenerative conditions. Hence, based on the ethnomedical claims and available literature, the present study investigated neuroprotective efficacy of a seed extract (ft-ext) of Fagopyrum tataricum against acrylamide (ACR)-induced neurotoxicity. The phytochemical characterization of ft-ext was performed by a high-performance liquid chromatography method. Molecular interactions of the identified compounds of ft-ext were studied using an in-silico docking tool. An in-vitro protein denaturation assay was done to check anti-inflammatory activity. The 5 days' post-fertilized zebrafish larvae were exposed to 1 mM and 2.5 mM ACR with or without ft-ext for 72 h to study its neuroprotective efficacy. Real-time polymerase chain reaction and western blotting studies were performed to analyse the oxidative stress-related gene and protein expressions respectively. The extract showed the presence of chlorogenic acid, rutin, caffeic acid, vitexin, syringic acid, quercetin, p-coumaric acid, kaempferol, and ferulic acid. In-vitro protein denaturation assay of ft-ext showed a potent anti-inflammatory effect. The ft-ext improved ACR-mediated locomotor deficit and reduced overall mortality in the larvae. The brain lipid peroxidation and protein carbonylation results revealed an elevated level of oxidative stress in the ACR-treated group, which was reduced in ft-ext-treated larvae. The extract treatment increased the expression of nrf2, gpx, and hmox1a, while simultaneously downregulated trxr2 levels in the brain of larvae exposed to ACR. The treatment also showed inactivation of Gsk-3β, thus maintaining a normal pool of Nrf2 and β-catenin. Molecular docking of identified compounds of ft-ext showed possible hydrogen and hydrophobic interactions with Gsk-3β. The ft-ext prevents ACR-mediated neurotoxicity by suppressing Gsk-3β mediated oxidative stress.
Our previous study demonstrated that Tartary buckwheat root polysaccharides (TBRP) could reduce insulin resistance in diabetes mellitus by inhibiting SOCS3-stimulated IRS1 protein degradation. However, whether TBRP has the efficiency to treat non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is still undetermined. This investigation aimed to examine the effects of TBRP on a high-fat diet (HFD)-triggered NAFLD, and elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms. Briefly, TBRP toxicity in hepatoma (BEL7404) and pancreatic cancer (BxPC3) cells and zebrafish embryos developmental models, were evaluated in-vitro and in-vivo, respectively. TBRP inhibited cellular lipid accumulation by suppressing fat synthesis, furthermore, it improved body weight gain, liver weight, liver-to-body weight ratio, serum lipids triglyceride, total cholesterol, ALT, LDL-C, HDL-C, and AST levels in the NAFLD mice model. Additionally, TBRP treatment also lowered the nitric oxide content. The qPCR assay revealed that mRNA expression of TNF, IL1β, and IL6 was also markedly reduced in TBRP-treated NAFLD mice. The expression of SOCS3, SREBP1c, and STAT3 was elucidated by western blot analysis, which indicated that TBRP markedly decreased the gene expression for de novo fat synthesis by the SOCS3-SREBP1c pathway. These findings reveal that TBRP ameliorates NAFLD via the IL6-SOCS3-SREBP1c signaling pathway and therefore, may represent a promising approach for NAFLD treatment.
The ubiquity of microplastic is widely recognized as pollution. Microplastic can affect the growth performances of plants. Buckwheat is a potential model crop to investigate plant responses to hazardous materials. Still, little is known about the response of buckwheat to microplastics. Thus, this study investigated the effect and uptake of polyethylene (PE) in buckwheat plant growth by monitoring the morphological and photosynthetic merits, antioxidant systems and transcriptome analysis of gene expression. Results confirmed that the impacts of PE on buckwheat growth were dose-dependent, while the highest concentration (80 mg/L) exposure elicited significantly negative responses of buckwheat. PE can invade buckwheat roots and locate in the vascular tissues. PE exposure disturbed the processes of carbon fixation and the synthesis of ATP from ADP + Pi in buckwheat leaves. The promotion of photosynthesis under PE exposure could generate extra energy for buckwheat leaves to activate antioxidant systems by increasing the antioxidant enzyme activities at an expense of morphological merits under microplastic stresses. Further in-depth study is warranted about figuring out the interactions between microplastics and biochemical responses (i.e., photosynthesis and antioxidant systems), which have great implications for deciphering the defense mechanism of buckwheat to microplastic stresses.
Tartary buckwheat flavonoids have a variety of effects on anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidation, as well as anti-tumor and are valuable for academic research and industrial application.
Tartary buckwheat is popular because of its rich nutrients. However, the difficulty in shelling restricts food production. The gene ALCATRAZ (AtALC) plays a key role in silique dehiscence in Arabidopsis thaliana. In this study, an atalc mutant was obtained by CRISPR/Cas9, and a FtALC gene homologous to AtALC was complemented into the atalc mutant to verify its function. Phenotypic observations showed that three atalc mutant lines did not dehiscence, while ComFtALC lines recovered the dehiscence phenotype. The contents of lignin, cellulose, hemicellulose, and pectin in the siliques of all the atalc mutant lines were significantly higher than those in the wild-type and ComFtALC lines. Moreover, FtALC was found to regulate the expression of cell wall pathway genes. Finally, the interaction of FtALC with FtSHP and FtIND was verified by yeast two-hybrid, bimolecular fluorescent complimentary (BIFC) and firefly luciferase completion imaging assays (LCIs). Our findings enrich the silique regulatory network and lay the foundation for the cultivation of easily shelled tartary buckwheat varieties.
Histone deacetylases (HDACs), known as histone acetylation erasers, function crucially in plant growth and development. Although there are abundant reports focusing on
Plant non-specific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs) play an important role in plant resistance to various stresses, and show potential applications in agriculture, industrial manufacturing, and medicine. In addition, as more and more nsLTPs are identified as allergens, nsLTPs have attracted interest due to their allergenicity. Two nsLTPs from Tartary buckwheat have been isolated and identified. There is a need to study their biochemical characteristics and allergenicity. The study aims to investigate the biochemical characteristics of two nsLTPs from Tartary buckwheat seeds and evaluate their potential allergenicity. Two nsLTPs derived from Tartary buckwheat, namely FtLTP1a and FtLTP1b, were produced by gene cloning, expression, and purification. Sequence analysis and biochemical characteristics of the proteins, including lipid binding ability, α-amylase inhibition activity, antifungal activity, and allergenic activity, were investigated. High-purity recombinant FtLTP1a and FtLTP1b were obtained. FtLTP1a and FtLTP1b exhibited similar lipid binding and antifungal properties. Only FtLTP1b showed weak inhibitory activity against α-amylase. FtLTP1b could specifically bind IgE in the serum allergic to buckwheat and cross-react with pollen (w6). FtLTP1b is a novel allergenic member of the lipid-transfer protein 1 family found in Tartary buckwheat.
Tartary buckwheat flavonoids (TBF) are active components extracted from Tartary buckwheat, which have abundant biological effects. According to this study, we investigated the effect of TBF on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced kidney fibrosis and its related mechanisms. In vivo, we established an HFD-induced kidney fibrosis model in mice and administered TBF. The results showed that TBF was able to alleviate kidney injury and inflammatory response. Subsequently, the mRNA levels between the HFD group and the TBF + HFD group were detected using RNA-seq assay. According to the gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) results, the differential genes were enriched in lipid metabolism and mitogen-activated protein kinases(MAPK) signaling pathways. We examined the protein expression of lipid metabolism-related pathways and the level of lipid metabolism. The results showed that TBF significantly activated the adenosine monophosphate activated protein kinase/acetyl-CoA carboxylase (AMPK/ACC) pathway and effectively reduced kidney total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG) and low-density lipoproteinc cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels in mice. TBF also inhibited transforming growth factor-β1/Smad (TGF-β1/Smad) and MAPK signaling pathways, thus slowing down the kidney fibrosis process. In vitro, using palmitic acid (PA) to stimulate TCMK-1 cells, the in vivo results similarly demonstrated that TBF could alleviate kidney fibrosis in HFD mice by inhibiting TGF1/Smad signaling pathway and MAPK signaling pathway.
Menopause is a natural aging process characterized by decreased levels of sex hormones in females. Deprivation of estrogen following menopause results in alterations of dendritic arborization of the neuron that leads to neurobehavioral complications. Hormone replacement therapy is in practice to manage postmenopausal conditions but is associated with a lot of adverse effects. In the present study, the efficacy of buckwheat tartary (Fagopyrum tataricum) whole seed extract was investigated against the neurobehavioral complication in middle-aged ovariectomized rats, which mimic the clinical postmenopausal condition. Hydroalcoholic extraction (80% ethanol) was done, and quantification of major marker compounds in the extract was performed using HPLC. Oral treatment of the extract following the critical window period rescued the reconsolidation process of spatial and recognition memory, as well as depression-like behavior. Gene expression analysis disclosed elevated oxidative stress and neuroinflammation that largely disturb the integrity of the blood-brain barrier in ovariectomized rats. Gfap and Pparγ expression also showed reactive astrogliosis in the rats subjected to ovariectomy. The extract treatment reverted the elevated oxidative stress, neuroinflammation and expression of the studied genes. Furthermore, protein expression analysis revealed that Gsk-3β was activated differentially in the brain, as suggested by β-catenin protein expression, which was normalized following the treatment with extract and rescued the altered neurobehavioral process. The results of the current study concluded that Fagopyrum tataricum seed extract is better option to overcome the neurobehavioral complications associated with the menopause.
Rhizoctonia solani is a devastating soil-borne pathogen that seriously threatens the cultivation of economically important crops. Multiple strains with a very broad host range have been identified, but only 1 (AG1-IA, which causes rice sheath blight disease) has been examined in detail. Here, we analyzed AG4-HGI 3 originally isolated from Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), but with a host range comparable to AG1-IA. Genome comparison reveals abundant pathogenicity genes in this strain. We used multiomic approaches to improve the efficiency of screening for disease resistance genes. Transcriptomes of the plant-fungi interaction identified differentially expressed genes associated with virulence in Rhizoctonia and resistance in Tartary buckwheat. Integration with jasmonate-mediated transcriptome and metabolome changes revealed a negative regulator of jasmonate signaling, cytochrome P450 (FtCYP94C1), as increasing disease resistance probably via accumulation of resistance-related flavonoids. The integration of resistance data for 320 Tartary buckwheat accessions identified a gene homolog to aspartic proteinase (FtASP), with peak expression following R. solani inoculation. FtASP exhibits no proteinase activity but functions as an antibacterial peptide that slows fungal growth. This work reveals a potential mechanism behind pathogen virulence and host resistance, which should accelerate the molecular breeding of resistant varieties in economically essential crops.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is an important food and medicine crop plant, which has been cultivated for 4000 years. A nuclear genome has been generated for this species, while an intraspecific pan-plastome has yet to be produced. As such a detailed understanding of the maternal genealogy of Tartary buckwheat has not been thoroughly investigated. In this study, we de novo assembled 513 complete plastomes of Fagopyrum and compared with 8 complete plastomes of Fagopyrum downloaded from the NCBI database to construct a pan-plastome for F. tartaricum and resolve genomic variation. The complete plastomes of the 513 newly assembled Fagopyrum plastome sizes ranged from 159,253 bp to 159,576 bp with total GC contents ranged from 37.76 to 37.97%. These plastomes all maintained the typical quadripartite structure, consisting of a pair of inverted repeat regions (IRA and IRB) separated by a large single copy region (LSC) and a small single copy region (SSC). Although the structure and gene content of the Fagopyrum plastomes are conserved, numerous nucleotide variations were detected from which population structure could be resolved. The nucleotide variants were most abundant in the non-coding regions of the genome and of those the intergenic regions had the most. Mutational hotspots were primarily found in the LSC regions. The complete 521 Fagopyrum plastomes were divided into five genetic clusters, among which 509 Tartary buckwheat plastomes were divided into three genetic clusters (Ft-I/Ft-II/Ft-III). The genetic diversity in the Tartary buckwheat genetic clusters was the greatest in Ft-III, and the genetic distance between Ft-I and Ft-II was the largest. Based on the results of population structure and genetic diversity analysis, Ft-III was further subdivided into three subgroups Ft-IIIa, Ft-IIIb, and Ft-IIIc. Divergence time estimation indicated that the genera Fagopyrum and Rheum (rhubarb) shared a common ancestor about 48 million years ago (mya) and that intraspecies divergence in Tartary buckwheat began around 0.42 mya. The resolution of pan-plastome diversity in Tartary buckwheat provides an important resource for future projects such as marker-assisted breeding and germplasm preservation.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Garetn.), a dicotyledonous herbaceous crop, has good adaptation to low nitrogen (LN) condition. The plasticity of roots drives the adaption of Tartary buckwheat under LN, but the detailed mechanism behind the response of TB roots to LN remains unclear. In this study, the molecular mechanism of two Tartary buckwheat genotypes' roots with contrasting sensitivity in response to LN was investigated by integrating physiological, transcriptome and whole-genome re-sequencing analysis. LN improved primary and lateral root growth of LN-sensitive genotype, whereas the roots of LN-insensitive genotype showed no response to LN. 2, 661 LN-responsive differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by transcriptome analysis. Of these genes, 17 N transport and assimilation-related and 29 hormone biosynthesis and signaling genes showed response to LN, and they may play important role in Tartary buckwheat root development under LN. The flavonoid biosynthetic genes' expression was improved by LN, and their transcriptional regulations mediated by MYB and bHLH were analyzed. 78 transcription factors, 124 small secreted peptides and 38 receptor-like protein kinases encoding genes involved in LN response. 438 genes were differentially expressed between LN-sensitive and LN-insensitive genotypes by comparing their transcriptome, including 176 LN-responsive DEGs. Furthermore, nine key LN-responsive genes with sequence variation were identified, including FtNRT2.4, FtNPF2.6 and FtMYB1R1. This paper provided useful information on the response and adaptation of Tartary buckwheat root to LN, and the candidate genes for breeding Tartary buckwheat with high N use efficiency were identified.
The PLATZ family is a novel class of plant-specific zinc finger transcription factors with important roles in plant growth and development and abiotic stress responses. PLATZ members have been identified in many plants, including
Grain weight/size influences not only grain yield (GY) but also nutritional and appearance quality and consumer preference in Tartary buckwheat. The identification of quantitative trait loci (QTLs)/genes for grain weight/size is an important objective of Tartary buckwheat genetic research and breeding programs. Herein, we mapped the QTLs for GY, 1000-grain weight (TGW), grain length (GL), grain width (GW) and grain length-width ratio (L/W) in four environments using 221 recombinant inbred lines (XJ-RILs) derived from a cross of 'Xiaomiqiao × Jinqiaomai 2'. In total, 32 QTLs, including 7 for GY, 5 for TGW, 6 for GL, 11 for GW and 3 for L/W, were detected and distributed in 24 genomic regions. Two QTL clusters, qClu-1-3 and qClu-1-5, located on chromosome Ft1, were revealed to harbour 7 stable major QTLs for GY (qGY1.2), TGW (qTGW1.2), GL (qGL1.1 and qGL1.4), GW (qGW1.7 and qGW1.10) and L/W (qL/W1.2) repeatedly detected in three and above environments. A total of 59 homologues of 27 known plant grain weight/size genes were found within the physical intervals of qClu-1-3 and qClu-1-5. Six homologues, FtBRI1, FtAGB1, FtTGW6, FtMADS1, FtMKK4 and FtANT, were identified with both non-synonymous SNP/InDel variations and significantly differential expression levels between the two parents, which may play important roles in Tatary buckwheat grain weight/size control and were chosen as core candidate genes for further investigation. Two stable major QTL clusters related to grain weight/size and six potential key candidate genes were identified by homology comparison, SNP/InDel variations and qRT‒qPCR analysis between the two parents. Our research provides valuable information for improving grain weight/size and yield in Tartary buckwheat breeding.
Common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) and Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), the two most widely cultivated buckwheat species, differ greatly in flavonoid content and reproductive mode. Here, we report the first high-quality and chromosome-level genome assembly of common buckwheat with 1.2 Gb. Comparative genomic analysis revealed that common buckwheat underwent a burst of long terminal repeat retrotransposons insertion accompanied by numerous large chromosome rearrangements after divergence from Tartary buckwheat. Moreover, multiple gene families involved in stress tolerance and flavonoid biosynthesis such as multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) and chalcone synthase (CHS) underwent significant expansion in buckwheat, especially in common buckwheat. Integrated multi-omics analysis identified high expression of catechin biosynthesis-related genes in flower and seed in common buckwheat and high expression of rutin biosynthesis-related genes in seed in Tartary buckwheat as being important for the differences in flavonoid type and content between these buckwheat species. We also identified a candidate key rutin-degrading enzyme gene (Ft8.2377) that was highly expressed in Tartary buckwheat seed. In addition, we identified a haplotype-resolved candidate locus containing many genes reportedly associated with the development of flower and pollen, which was potentially related to self-incompatibility in common buckwheat. Our study provides important resources facilitating future functional genomics-related research of flavonoid biosynthesis and self-incompatibility in buckwheat.
Interspecific gene comparisons are the keystones for many areas of biological research and are especially important for the translation of knowledge from model organisms to economically important species. Currently they are hampered by the low resolution of methods based on sequence analysis and by the complex evolutionary history of eukaryotic genes. This is especially critical for plants, whose genomes are shaped by multiple whole genome duplications and subsequent gene loss. This requires the development of new methods for comparing the functions of genes in different species. Here, we report ISEEML (Interspecific Similarity of Expression Evaluated using Machine Learning)-a novel machine learning-based algorithm for interspecific gene classification. In contrast to previous studies focused on sequence similarity, our algorithm focuses on functional similarity inferred from the comparison of gene expression profiles. We propose novel metrics for expression pattern similarity-expression score (ES)-that is suitable for species with differing morphologies. As a proof of concept, we compare detailed transcriptome maps of Arabidopsis thaliana, the model species, Zea mays (maize) and Fagopyrum esculentum (common buckwheat), which are species that represent distant clades within flowering plants. The classifier resulted in an AUC of 0.91; under the ES threshold of 0.5, the specificity was 94%, and sensitivity was 72%.
Grain size with high heritability and stability is an important selection target during Tartary buckwheat breeding. However, the mechanisms that regulate Tartary buckwheat grain development are unknown. We generated transcriptome and metabolome sequencing from 10 and 15 days past anthesis (DPA) grains of big grain mutant (
Starch is a major component of crop grains, and its content affects food quality and taste. Tartary buckwheat is a traditional pseudo-cereal used in food as well as medicine. Starch content, granule morphology, and physicochemical properties have been extensively studied in Tartary buckwheat. However, the complex regulatory network related to its starch biosynthesis needs to be elucidated. Here, we performed RNA-seq analyses using seven Tartary buckwheat varieties differing in starch content and combined the RNA-seq data with starch content by weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA). As a result, 10,873 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified and were functionally clustered to six hierarchical clusters. Fifteen starch biosynthesis genes had higher expression level in seeds. Four trait-specific modules and 3131 hub genes were identified by WGCNA, with the lightcyan and brown modules positively correlated with starch-related traits. Furthermore, two potential gene regulatory networks were proposed, including the co-expression of
Abiotic stresses such as drought and salinity are major environmental factors limiting plant productivity. Autophagy-related genes are extensively involved in plant growth, development, and adverse stress responses, which have not yet been characterized in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum, TB). In this study, we verified that drought stress could induce autophagy in TB roots. Next, 49 FtATGs in the whole genome of TB were identified. All FtATGs were randomly distributed in 8 known chromosomes, while 11 FtATGs were predictably segmental repeats. As the core component of autophagy, there were 8 FtATG8s with similar gene structures in TB, while FtATG8s showed high expression at the transcription level under drought and salt stresses. The cis-acting element analysis identified that all FtATG8 promoters contain light-responsive and MYB-binding elements. FtATG8s showed a cell-wide protein interaction network and strongly correlated with distinct stress-associated transcription factors. Furthermore, overexpression of FtATG8a and FtATG8f enhanced the antioxidant enzyme activities of TB under adverse stresses. Remarkably, FtATG8a and FtATG8f may be vital candidates functioning in stress resistance in TB. This study prominently aids in understanding the biological role of FtATG genes in TB.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) is a coarse cereal with strongly abiotic resistance. The MYB family plays a regulatory role in plant growth, development, and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. However, the characteristics and regulatory mechanisms of MYB transcription factors in Tartary buckwheat remain unclarified. Here, this study cloned the FtMYB22 gene from Tartary buckwheat, and investigated its involvement in responding to individual water deficit and salt stress in Arabidopsis. Sequence analysis highlighted that the N-termini of FtMYB22 contained two highly conserved SANT domains and one conserved domain from the SG20 subfamily. Nucleus-localized FtMYB22 did not have individual transcriptional activation activity. Water deficiency and salt stress induced the high expression of the GUS gene, which was driven by the promoter of FtMYB22. Yeast stress experiments showed that the overexpression of FtMYB22 significantly reduced the growth activity of transgenic yeast under water deficit or salt stress. Consistently, the overexpression of FtMYB22 reduced the salt and water deficit stress resistance of the transgenic plants. In addition, physiological parameters showed that transgenic plants had lower proline and antioxidant enzyme activity under stress conditions. Compared to the wild-type (WT), transgenic plants accumulated more malondialdehyde (MDA), H2O2, and O2−; they also showed higher ion permeability and water loss rates of detached leaves under stress treatments. Notably, FtMYB22 was involved in plant stress resistance through an ABA-dependent pathway. Under stress conditions, the expression of RD29A, RD29B, PP2CA, KIN1, COR15A, and other genes in response to plant stress in transgenic lines was significantly lower than that in the WT (p < 0.05). Furthermore, yeast two-hybrid assay showed that there was a significant interaction between FtMYB22 and the ABA receptor protein RCAR1/2, which functioned in the ABA signal pathway. Altogether, FtMYB22, as a negative regulator, inhibited a variety of physiological and biochemical reactions, affected gene expression and stomatal closure in transgenic plants through the ABA-dependent pathway, and reduced the tolerance of transgenic Arabidopsis to water deficiency and salt stress. Based on these fundamental verifications, further studies would shed light on the hormone signal response mechanism of FtMYB22.
Distyly, a floral dimorphism associated with heteromorphic self-incompatibility and controlled by the S-locus supergene, evolved independently multiple times. Comparative analyses of the first transcriptome atlas for the main distyly model, Primula veris, with other distylous species produced the following findings. A set of 53 constitutively expressed genes in P. veris did not include any of the housekeeping genes commonly used to normalize gene expression in qPCR experiments. The S-locus gene CYP
R2R3-MYB transcription factors play important roles in response to abiotic stresses in planta, such as salt, drought, and osmotic stress. However, the role of FtMYB11 in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) in drought and osmotic tolerance has not yet been elucidated. In this study, we found that FtMYB11 was markedly induced by exogenous abscisic acid (ABA), salinity, and mannitol. Further, FtMYB11-overexpressing Arabidopsis showed hypersensitivity to ABA-mediated seed germination and seedling establishment through regulating transcripts of AtCBF1, AtDREB2A, and AtRD20, compared with wild type, indicating that FtMYB11 plays a positive role in ABA signaling. In contrast, transgenic lines overexpressing FtMYB11 were sensitive to mannitol and NaCl treatments, suggesting that FtMYB11 plays a negative role in osmotic tolerance. Intriguingly, the transcripts of ABA biosynthetic enzyme genes were significantly elevated in plants overexpressing FtMYB11 after exposure to osmotic stresses, such as AtABA3 and AtNCED3. In addition, flavonoid biosynthesis genes were also upregulated in transgenic Arabidopsis under ABA, salt, and drought treatments, including AtC4H, AtF3H, AtANS, AtFLS, and At4CL. The drought tolerance assay showed that plants overexpressing FtMYB11 displayed greater tolerance to water deficit through regulating MDA and proline content. Taken together, FtMYB11 has opposite roles in response to abiotic stresses, but it may mediate flavonoid biosynthesis through regulation of related enzyme genes.
Tartary buckwheat is among the valuable crops, utilized as both food and Chinese herbal medicine. To uncover the accumulation dynamics of the main nutrients and their regulatory mechanism of Tartary buckwheat seeds, microscopic observations and nutrient analysis were conducted which suggested that starch, proteins as well as flavonoid gradually accumulated among seed development. Comparative proteomic analysis of rice Tartary buckwheat at three different developmental stages was performed. A total of 78 protein spots showed differential expression with 74 of them being successfully identified by MALDI-TOF/TOF MS. Among them, granule bound starch synthase (GBSS1) might be the critical enzyme that determines starch biosynthesis, while 11 S seed storage protein and vicilin seemed to be the main globulin and affect seed storage protein accumulation in Tartary buckwheat seeds. Two enzymes, flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H) and anthocyanidin reductase (ANR), involved in the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway were identified. Further analysis on the expression profiles of flavonoid biosynthetic genes revealed that F3H might be the key enzyme that promote flavonoid accumulation. This study provides insights into the mechanism of nutrition accumulation at the protein level in Tartary buckwheat seeds and may facilitate in the breeding and enhancement of Tartary buckwheat germplasm.
ABFs play a key role in regulating plant osmotic stress. However, in Tartary buckwheat, data on the role of ABF genes in osmotic stress remain limited and its associated mechanism in osmoregulation remain nebulous. Herein, a novel ABF family in Tartary buckwheat, FtbZIP12, was cloned and characterized. FtbZIP12 is a transcriptional activator located in the nucleus; its expression is induced by NaCl, mannitol, and abscisic acid (ABA). Atopic expression of FtbZIP12 in Arabidopsis promoted seed germination, reduced damage to primary roots, and improved the tolerance of seedlings to osmotic stress. The quantitative realtime polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) results showed that the expressions of the typical genes related to stress, the SOS pathway, and the proline synthesis pathway in Arabidopsis were significantly (p < 0.05) upregulated under osmotic stress. FtbZIP12 improved the osmotic pressure resistance by reducing the damage caused by reactive oxygen species to plants and maintained plant homeostasis by upregulating the expression of genes related to stress, osmotic regulation, and ion homeostasis. This study identified a key candidate gene for understanding the mechanism underlying osmotic-stress-regulated function in Tartary buckwheat, thereby providing a theoretical basis for improving its yield and quality.
GATA is a transcription factor that exerts a vital function in plant growth and development, physiological metabolism, and environmental responses. However, the
Flavonoids are known for potent antioxidant activity and antihyperlipidemia. As a result of the few antinutritional factors and high bioactive substances, such as flavonoids, sprouts of tartary buckwheat (
Tartary buckwheat [Fagopyrum tataricum (L.) Gaertn.] is a pseudocereal with strongly abiotic resistance. NACs, one of the largest plant-specific transcription factors (TFs), are involved in various stress responses. However, the characteristics and regulatory mechanisms of NAC TFs remain unclarified clearly in Tartary buckwheat (TB). In this study, it validated that salt, drought, and abscisic acid (ABA) stress significantly up-regulated the expression of NAC TF gene FtNAC31. Its coding protein has a C-terminal transactivated domain and localized in the nucleus, suggesting that FtNAC31 might play a transcriptional activation role in TB. Notably, overexpression of FtNAC31 lowered the seed germination rate upon ABA treatment and enhanced the tolerance to salt and drought stress in transgenetic Arabidopsis. Furthermore, under various stresses, the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), peroxidase (POD), and catalase (CAT) in FtNAC31 overexpressed lines exhibited a sharp increase trend. Meanwhile, the expression levels of several stress-associated genes including RD29A, RD29B, RD22, DREB2B, NCED3, and POD1, were dramatically upregulated in lines overexpressing FtNAC31. Altogether, overproduction of FtNAC31 could enhance the resistance to salt and drought stresses in transgenic Arabidopsis, which most likely functioned in an ABA-dependent way.
Crop domestication usually leads to the narrowing genetic diversity. However, human selection mainly focuses on visible traits, such as yield and plant morphology, with most metabolic changes being invisible to the naked eye. Buckwheat accumulates abundant bioactive substances, making it a dual-purpose crop with excellent nutritional and medical value. Therefore, examining the wiring of these invisible metabolites during domestication is of major importance. The comprehensive profiling of 200 Tartary buckwheat accessions exhibits 540 metabolites modified as a consequence of human selection. Metabolic genome-wide association study illustrates 384 mGWAS signals for 336 metabolites are under selection. Further analysis showed that an R2R3-MYB transcription factor FtMYB43 positively regulates the synthesis of procyanidin. Glycoside hydrolase gene FtSAGH1 is characterized as responsible for the release of active salicylic acid, the precursor of aspirin and indispensably in plant defence. UDP-glucosyltransferase gene FtUGT74L2 is characterized as involved in the glycosylation of emodin, a major medicinal component specific in Polygonaceae. The lower expression of FtSAGH1 and FtUGT74L2 were associated with the reduction of salicylic acid and soluble EmG owing to domestication. This first large-scale metabolome profiling in Tartary buckwheat will facilitate genetic improvement of medicinal properties and disease resistance in Tartary buckwheat.
We aimed to elucidate the physiological and biochemical mechanism by which exogenous hydrogen peroxide (H
Drought and high salinity affect plant growth, development, yield, and quality. MYB transcription factors (TFs) in plants play an indispensable regulatory role in resisting adverse stress. In this study, screening and functional validation of the TF FtMYB30, which can respond extensively to abiotic stress and abscisic acid (ABA), was achieved in Tartary buckwheat. FtMYB30, one of the SG22 (sub-group 22) family of R2R3-MYB TFs, localized in the nucleus and had transcriptional activation activity. Under drought and salt stress, FtMYB30 overexpression reduced the oxidative damage in transgenic plants by increasing the activity of proline content and antioxidant enzymes and significantly upregulate the expression of RD29A, RD29B, and Cu/ZnSOD, thereby enhancing drought/salt tolerance in transgenic Arabidopsis. Additionally, overexpression of FtMYB30 can reduce the sensitivity of transgenic plants to ABA. Moreover, AtRCAR1/2/3 and AtMPK6 directly interact with the FtMYB30 TF, possibly through the crosstalk between MAPKs (mitogen-activated protein kinases) and the ABA signaling pathway. Taken together, these results suggest that FtMYB30, as a positive regulator, mediates plant tolerance to salt and drought through an ABA-dependent signaling pathway.
Heavy metal-associated (HMA) genes are those related to heavy metal transport and detoxification in plants. HMA genes have not been reported in Tartary buckwheat so far. In this study, we accessed the HMA genes of Tartary buckwheat by genome-wide identification for the first time. A total of 56 HMA genes were identified, including 36 ATX1 (antioxidant protein1) genes, 13 HIPP (heavy metal-associated isoprenylated plant protein) genes, and 7 P
Tartary buckwheat (TB) is a pseudocereal rich in flavonoids, mainly including flavonols and anthocyanins. The flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase (F3'H) is a key enzyme in flavonoid biosynthesis and is encoded by two copies in TB genome. However, its biological function and effects on flavonol and anthocyanin synthesis in TB have not been well validated yet. In this study, we cloned the full-length
The objective of this study was to reveal the mechanism underlying the effects of microwave treatment on Tartary buckwheat germination and flavonoids enrichment. Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis showed that Tartary buckwheat germinated at 3, 5, and 7 days after 300 W/50 s microwave treatment had 7, 5, and 5 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) compared to those of control. These DEPs are mainly related to energy production and conversion, gene expression, and flavonoids metabolism. Based on KEGG analysis, the DEPs were mainly enriched in photosynthesis, RNA polymerase, flavonoid biosynthesis, phenylalanine metabolism, and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis metabolic pathways. Further, the upregulation of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and flavonol synthase protein enzymes promoted germination and flavonoids accumulation in Tartary buckwheat. These findings reveal the mechanism of Tartary buckwheat germination and the enrichment of flavonoids induced by microwaves and provide a scientific basis for the development of functional foods for Tartary buckwheat.
A hallmark of adaptive evolution is innovation in gene function, which is associated with the development of distinct roles for genes during plant evolution; however, assessing functional innovation over long periods of time is not trivial. Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) originated in the Himalayan region and has been exposed to intense UV-B radiation for a long time, making it an ideal species for studying novel UV-B response mechanisms in plants. Here, we developed a workflow to obtain a co-functional network of UV-B responses using data from more than 10,000 samples in more than 80 projects with multi-species and multi-omics data. Dissecting the entire network revealed that flavonoid biosynthesis was most significantly related to the UV-B response. Importantly, we found that the regulatory factor MYB4R1, which resides at the core of the network, has undergone neofunctionalization. In vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that MYB4R1 regulates flavonoid and anthocyanin accumulation in response to UV-B in buckwheat by binding to L-box motifs in the FtCHS, FtFLS, and FtUFGT promoters. We used deep learning to develop a visual discrimination model of buckwheat flavonoid content based on natural populations exposed to global UV-B radiation. Our study highlights the critical role of gene neofunctionalization in UV-B adaptation.
Flowering is a critical physiological change that interferes with not only biomass yield but also secondary metabolism, such as the biosynthesis of flavonoids, in rhizome/root plants. The continuous inflorescence removal (CIR) treatment is frequently conducted to weaken this effect. Fagopyrum dibotrys (D.Don) H.Hara (Golden buckwheat) is a kind of rhizome medicinal plant rich in flavonoids and is widely used for the treatment of lung diseases. The CIR treatment is usually conducted in F. dibotrys because of its excessive reproductive growth. To uncover the molecular mechanisms, comprehensive analysis was performed using metabolome and transcriptome data obtained from normally bloomed and the CIR treated plants. Metabolome results demonstrated that in the rhizomes of F. dibotrys, its bioactive compound called epicatechin has higher amount than most of the detected precursors. Compared with the normally bloomed plants, the level of epicatechin in the rhizomes of the CIR group increased by 25% at the withering stage. Based on 96 samples of the control and the CIR groups at 4 flowering stages for 4 tissues, RNA-Seq results revealed a 3 ~ 5 times upregulations of all the key enzyme genes involved in the biosynthesis of epicatechin in both time (from the bud stage to the withering stage) and spatial dimensions (from the top of branch to rhizome) under the CIR treatment compared to normal flowering. Integrated analysis of LC-MS/MS and transcriptome revealed the key roles of several key enzyme genes besides anthocyanidin reductase (ANR). A total of 93 transcription factors were identified to co-expressed with the genes in epicatechin biosynthetic pathway. The flowering activator SQUAMOSA promoter-binding protein like (SPLs) exhibited opposite spatiotemporal expression patterns to that of the epicatechin pathway genes; SPL3 could significantly co-express with all the key enzyme genes rather than the flowering repressor DELLA. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) further confirmed the correlations among chalcone synthases (CHSs), chalcone isomerases (CHIs), ANRs, SPLs and other transcription factors. SPL3 might dominantly mediate the effect of normal flowering and the CIR treatment on the biosynthesis of epicatechin in rhizomes mainly through the negative regulations of its key enzyme genes including CHS, CHI and ANR.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade is a highly conserved signal transduction pathway, ubiquitous in eukaryotes, such as animals and plants. The MAPK cascade has a dominant role in regulating plant adaptation to the environment, such as through stress responses, osmotic adjustment, and processes that modulate pathogenicity. In the present study, the MAPK cascade gene family was identified in
Histone deacetylases (HDACs), widely found in various types of eukaryotic cells, play crucial roles in biological process, including the biotic and abiotic stress responses in plants. However, no research on the HDACs of
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum L. Gaertn., TB) is an ancient minor crop and an important food source for humans to supplement nutrients such as flavonoids and essential amino acids. Amino acid transporters (AATs) play critical roles in plant growth and development through the transport of amino acids. In this study, 104 AATs were identified in TB genome and divided into 11 subfamilies by phylogenetic relationships. Tandem and segmental duplications promoted the expansion of FtAAT gene family, and the variations of gene sequence, protein structure and expression pattern were the main reasons for the functional differentiation of FtAATs. Based on RNA-seq and qRT-PCR, the expression patterns of FtAATs in different tissues and under different abiotic stresses were analyzed, and several candidate FtAATs that might affect grain development and response to abiotic stresses were identified, such as FtAAP12 and FtCAT7. Finally, combined with the previous studies, the expression patterns and phylogenetic relationships of AATs in multiple species, the functions of multiple high-confidence FtAAT genes were predicted, and the schematic diagram of FtAATs in TB was initially drawn. Overall, this work provided a framework for further functional analysis of FtAAT genes and important clues for the improvement of TB quality and stress resistance.
Golden buckwheat (Fagopyrum dibotrys or Fagopyrum cymosum) and Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) belong to the Polygonaceae and the Fagopyrum genus is rich in flavonoids. Golden buckwheat is a wild relative of Tartary buckwheat, yet golden buckwheat is a traditional Chinese herbal medicine and Tartary buckwheat is a food crop. The genetic basis of adaptive divergence between these two buckwheats is poorly understood. Here, we assembled a high-quality chromosome-level genome of golden buckwheat and found a one-to-one syntenic relationship with the chromosomes of Tartary buckwheat. Two large inversions were identified that differentiate golden buckwheat and Tartary buckwheat. Metabolomic and genetic comparisons of golden buckwheat and Tartary buckwheat indicate an amplified copy number of FdCHI, FdF3H, FdDFR, and FdLAR gene families in golden buckwheat, and a parallel increase in medicinal flavonoid content. Resequencing of 34 wild golden buckwheat accessions across the two morphologically distinct ecotypes identified candidate genes, including FdMYB44 and FdCRF4, putatively involved in flavonoid accumulation and differentiation of plant architecture, respectively. Our comparative genomic study provides abundant genomic resources of genomic divergent variation to improve buckwheat with excellent nutritional and medicinal value.
Drought stress has been the main abiotic factor affecting the growth, development and production of common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum). To explore the response mechanisms of regulating buckwheat drought stress on the post-transcriptional and translational levels, a comparative proteomic analysis was applied to monitor the short-term proteomic variations under the drought stress in the seedling stage. From which 593 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were identified using the TMT-based proteomics analysis. A number of DAPs were found to be intimately correlated with the styrene degradation, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and stimulus response, within which. The acyl-CoA oxidase 4 (ACX4), a key regulator in plant abiotic stress response, was selected for further elucidation. Overexpression of the FeACX4 not only conferred drought and salt tolerance in the Arabidopsis, but also significantly increased the root length and fresh weight in the overexpression lines plant relative to the wild type (WT) plant, accompanied by the elevated activities of catalase (CAT) and lowered malonaldehyde (MDA) and H
As transcription factors, the TCP genes are considered to be promising targets for crop enhancement for their responses to abiotic stresses. However, information on the systematic characterization and functional expression profiles under abiotic stress of TCPs in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum (L.) Gaertn.) is limited. In this study, we identified 26 FtTCPs and named them according to their position on the chromosomes. Phylogenetic tree, gene structure, duplication events, and cis-acting elements were further studied and syntenic analysis was conducted to explore the bioinformatic traits of the FtTCP gene family. Subsequently, 12 FtTCP genes were selected for expression analysis under cold, dark, heat, salt, UV, and waterlogging (WL) treatments by qRT-PCR. The spatio-temporal specificity, correlation analysis of gene expression levels and interaction network prediction revealed the potential function of FtTCP15 and FtTCP18 in response to abiotic stresses. Moreover, subcellular localization confirmed that FtTCP15 and FtTCP18 localized in the nucleus function as transcription factors. In this research, 26 TCP genes were identified in Tartary buckwheat, and their structures and functions have been systematically explored. Our results reveal that the FtTCP15 and FtTCP18 have special cis-elements in response to abiotic stress and conserved nature in evolution, indicating they could be promising candidates for further functional verification under multiple abiotic stresses.
Gravity is known as an important environmental factor involved in the regulation of plant architecture. To identify genes related to the gravitropism of Tartary buckwheat, a creeping line was obtained and designated as
Buckwheat accumulates abundant flavonoids, which exhibit excellent health-promoting value. Flavonoids biosynthesis is mediated by a variety of phytohormones, among which jasmonates (JAs) induce numerous transcription factors, taking part in regulation of flavonoids biosynthesis genes. However, some transcriptional repressors appeared also induced by JAs. How these transcriptional repressors coordinately participate in JA signaling remains unclear. Here, we found that the disruption of the GCC-box in FtF3H promoter was associated with flavonoids accumulation in Tartary buckwheat. Further, our study illustrated that the nucleus-localized FtERF-EAR3 could inhibit FtF3H expression and flavonoids biosynthesis through binding the GCC-box in the promoter of FtF3H. The JA induced FtERF-EAR3 gene expression while facilitating FtERF-EAR3 protein degradation via the FtBPM3-dependent 26S proteasome pathway. Overall, these results illustrate a precise modulation mechanism of JA-responsive transcription suppressor participating in flavonoid biosynthesis, and will further help to improve the efficiency of flavonoids biosynthesis in Tartary buckwheat.
Metal tolerance proteins (MTP) as divalent cation transporters are essential for plant metal tolerance and homeostasis. However, the characterization and the definitive phylogeny of the MTP gene family in
Plant AT-rich sequence and zinc-binding (PLATZ) proteins belong to a novel class of plant-specific zinc-finger-dependent DNA-binding proteins that play essential roles in plant growth and development. Although the PLATZ gene family has been identified in several species, systematic identification and characterization of this gene family has not yet been carried out for Tartary buckwheat, which is an important medicinal and edible crop with high nutritional value. The recent completion of Tartary buckwheat genome sequencing has laid the foundation for this study. A total of 14 FtPLATZ proteins were identified in Tartary buckwheat and were classified into four phylogenetic groups. The gene structure and motif composition were similar within the same group, and evident distinctions among different groups were detected. Gene duplication, particularly segmental duplication, was the main driving force in the evolution of FtPLATZs. Synteny analysis revealed that Tartary buckwheat shares more orthologous PLATZ genes with dicotyledons, particularly soybean. In addition, the expression of FtPLATZs in different tissues and developmental stages of grains showed evident specificity and preference. FtPLATZ3 may be involved in the regulation of grain size, and FtPLATZ4 and FtPLATZ11 may participate in root development. Abundant and variable hormone-responsive cis-acting elements were distributed in the promoter regions of FtPLATZs, and almost all FtPLATZs were significantly regulated after exogenous hormone treatments, particularly methyl jasmonate treatment. Moreover, FtPLATZ6 was significantly upregulated under all exogenous hormone treatments, which may indicate that this gene plays a critical role in the hormone response of Tartary buckwheat. This study lays a foundation for further exploration of the function of FtPLATZ proteins and their roles in the growth and development of Tartary buckwheat and contributes to the genetic improvement of Tartary buckwheat.
The nuclear factor Y (NF-Y) is an important transcription factor family that regulates plant developmental processes and abiotic stress responses. Currently, genome-wide studies of the NF-Y family are limited in Fagopyrum tataricum, an important economic crop. Based on the released genome assembly, we predicted a total of 38 NF-Y encoding genes (FtNF-Ys), including 12 FtNF-YAs, 18 FtNF-YBs, and eight FtNF-YCs subunits, in F. tataricum. Phylogenetic tree and sequence alignments showed that FtNF-Ys were conserved between F. tataricum and other species. Tissue expressions and network analyses suggested that FtNF-Ys might be involved in regulating developmental processes in different tissues. Several FtNF-YAs and FtNF-Ybs were also potentially involved in light response. In addition, FtNF-YC-like1 and FtNF-YC-like2 partially rescued the late flowering phenotype in nf-yc1 nf-yc3 nf-yc4 nf-yc9 (ycQ) mutant in Arabidopsis thaliana, supporting a conserved role of FtNF-Ys in regulating developmental processes. Together, the genomic information provides a comprehensive understanding of the NF-Y transcription factors in F. tataricum, which will be useful for further investigation of their functions in F. tataricum.
Anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins (PAs) are vital secondary metabolites in Tartary buckwheat because of their antioxidant capacities and radical scavenging functions. It has been demonstrated that R2R3-MYB transcription factors (TFs) are essential regulators of anthocyanin and PA biosynthesis in many plants. However, their regulatory mechanisms in Tartary buckwheat remain to be clarified. Here, we confirmed the role of FtMYB3 in anthocyanin and PA biosynthesis. FtMYB3, which belongs to the subgroup 4 R2R3 family was predominantly expressed in roots. The transcriptional expression of FtMYB3 increased significantly under hormone treatment with SA and MeJA and abiotic stresses including drought, salt, and cold at the seedling stage. Functional analyses showed that FtMYB3 negatively regulated anthocyanin and PA biosynthesis, primarily via downregulating the expression of the
Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) plays essential roles in the development, hormone regulation and abiotic stress response of plants. Nevertheless, a comprehensive study on MAPK family members has thus far not been performed in Tartary buckwheat. Here, we identified 16 FtMAPKs in the Fagopyrum tataricum genome. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the FtMAPK family members could be classified into Groups A, B, C and D, in which A, B and C members contain a Thr-Glu-Tyr (TEY) signature motif and Group D members contain a Thr-Asp-Tyr (TDY) signature motif. Promoter cis-acting elements showed that most Pro A total of 16 MAPKs were identified in Tartary buckwheat, and the members of the MAPK family containing the TDY motif were found to have expanded. The same subfamily members have relatively conserved gene structures and similar protein motifs. Tissue-specific expression indicated that the expression of all FtMAPK genes varied widely in the roots, stems, leaves and flowers. Most FtMAPKs can regulate the expression of other transcription factors and participate in the abiotic stress response. Our findings comprehensively revealed the FtMAPK gene family and laid a theoretical foundation for the functional characterization of FtMAPKs.
Rice, wheat, corn, and potatoes are four crops that provide a daily source of nutrition for humans, but there are many problems that have been found with these crops. First, they lack amino acids and minerals which are necessary for balanced nutrition, and they also are grown very widely and as monocultures, which increases the risk of the human food system being destroyed by climate change. Thus, by introducing coarse cereals with good characteristics, we can enrich human food resources, realize agricultural diversification, improve dietary structure, and mitigate risks. Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is a widely cultivated edible and medicinal crop with unique nutritional and excellent economic value. It contains flavonoids, such as rutin and quercetin, which are not found in cereal crops. Rutin is a major flavonoid that can enhance blood flow and aid in the use of vitamin C and the production of collagen. In addition, such antioxidants have been shown to effectively reduce cholesterol levels, blood clots, and hypertension, particularly for the prevention of inflammatory liver injury (Middleton et al., 2000; Lee et al., 2013; Suzuki et al., 2014; Huang et al., 2016; Nishimura et al., 2016). Meanwhile, Tartary buckwheat can tolerate poor climate and acidic soils containing high amounts of aluminum, which is toxic to other crops (Wang et al., 2015). The self-pollination of Tartary buckwheat has resulted in a decrease in genomic heterozygosity, which is valuable for breeding and a stable production trait (Wang and Campbell, 2007). Therefore, Tartary buckwheat is an important minor crop, which is expected to become the target of many breeding efforts in the future.
Small secreted peptides (SSPs) regulate nitrogen (N) response and signaling in plants. Although much progress has been made in understanding the functions of SSPs in N response, very little information is available regarding non-model plants. Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), a dicotyledonous crop, has a good adaptability to low N (LN) stress; however, little is known regarding the associated mechanisms underlying this adaptation. In this study, 932 putative SSPs were genome-wide characterized in TB genome. Of these SSPs, 233 SSPs were annotated as established SSPs, such as CLE, RALF, PSK, and CEP peptides. The gene expression of 675 putative SSPs was detected in five tissues and 258 SSPs were tissue-specific expressed genes. To analyze the responses of TB SSPs to LN, the dynamic expression analysis of TB roots under LN stress was conducted by RNA-seq. The expression of 378 putative TB SSP genes was detected with diverse expression patterns under LN stress, and some important LN-responsive SSPs were identified. Co-expression analysis suggested SSPs may regulate the adaptability of TB under LN conditions by modulating the expression of the genes involved in N transport and assimilation and IAA signaling. Furthermore, 53 LN stress-responsive RLKs encoding genes were identified and they were predicted as potential SSP receptors. This study expands the repertoire of SSPs in plants and provides useful information for further investigation of the functions of Tartary buckwheat SSPs in LN stress responses.
Auxin/indoleacetic acid (Aux/IAA) family genes respond to the hormone auxin, which have been implicated in the regulation of multiple biological processes. In this study, all 25 Aux/IAA family genes were identified in Tartary buckwheat (
With the increasing application of nanomaterials, evaluation of the phytotoxicity of nanoparticles has attracted considerable interest. Buckwheat is an economically pseudocereal crop, which is a potential model for investigating the response of plants to hazardous materials. In this study, the response of buckwheat to graphene oxide (GO) was investigated by integrating physiological and transcriptome analysis. GO can penetrate into buckwheat root and stem, and high concentrations of GO inhibited seedlings growth. High concentration of GO improved ROS production and regulated the activities and gene expression of oxidative enzymes, which implying GO may affect plant growth via regulating ROS detoxification. Root and stem exhibit distinct transcriptomic responses to GO, and the GO-responsive genes in stem are more enriched in cell cycle and epigenetic regulation. GO inhibited plant hormone biosynthesis and signaling by analyzing the expression data. Additionally, 97 small secreted peptides (SSPs) encoding genes were found to be involved in GO response. The gene expression of 111 transcription factor (TFs) and 43 receptor-like protein kinases (RLKs) were regulated by GO, and their expression showed high correlation with SSPs. Finally, the TFs-SSPs-RLKs signaling networks in regulating GO response were proposed. This study provides insights into the molecular responses of plants to GO.
Nitrogen (N) affects common buckwheat quality by affecting starch and amino acids (AAs) content, but its molecular mechanism is still unclear. We selected two common buckwheat varieties with high and low starch content, and designed two treatments with 180 and 0 kg N/ha. Application of high-N led to significant increases in starch, amylose and amylopectin content. Of 1337 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) induced by high-N conditions. 472DEPs were significantly upregulated and 176DEPs downregulated for Xinong9976. 239DEPs were significantly upregulated and 126DEPs downregulated for Beizaosheng. The six alpha-glucan phosphorylases, three alpha-amylases, one granule-bound starch synthase 1 and one sucrose synthase exhibited higher expression at the 180 kg N/ha than at the 0 kg N/ha. In addition, high-N application promoted arginine, leucine, isoleucine and valine biosynthesis. This study revealed the effect of N on the starch and AA content of common buckwheat and its mechanism. The crucial proteins identified may develop the quality of common buckwheat.
Nuclear factor Y (NF-Y) is a heterotrimeric transcription factor playing crucial roles in various biological process in plant. However, thorough research on NF-Y gene family of Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is little. In this study, 38 FtNF-Y genes (12 FtNF-YAs, 17 FtNF-YBs, and 9 FtNF-YCs) were identified and renamed on the basis of their subfamily and chromosomal location. Their gene structure, genomic mapping, motif composition, conserved domain, phylogenetic relationships, cis-acting elements and gene expression were investigated. Illustration of gene structures and conserved domains of FtNF-Ys revealed their functional conservation and specificity. Construction of phylogenetic trees of NF-Ys in Tartary buckwheat, Arabidopsis, tomato, rice and banana, allowed us to predict functional similarities among NF-Ys from different species. Gene expression analysis displayed that twenty-four FtNF-Ys were expressed in all the tissues and the transcript levels of them were different, suggesting their function varieties. Moreover, expression profiles of twenty FtNF-Ys along five different fruit development stages acquired by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) demonstrated distinct abundance diversity at different stages, providing some clues of potential fruit development regulators. Our study could provide helpful reference information for further function characterization of FtNF-Ys and for the fruit quality enhancement of Tartary buckwheat.
BBX (B-box), a zinc finger transcription factor with one or two B-box domains, plays an important role in plant photomorphogenesis, growth, and development as well as response to environmental changes. In this study, 28 Tartary buckwheat
The characteristics of flavonoid metabolism in different Tartary buckwheat (TB) tissues and the related gene regulation network are still unclear at present. One hundred forty-seven flavonoids were identified from six TB tissues using the ultra performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) method. The roadmap of the rutin synthesis pathway was revealed. Through transcriptomic analysis it was revealed that the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) are mainly enriched in the "Phenylpropanoid biosynthesis" pathway. Fifty-two DEGs involved in the "flavonol synthesis" pathway were identified. The weighted gene correlation network analysis revealed four co-expression network modules correlated with six flavonol metabolites. Eventually, 74 genes revealed from MEblue and MElightsteelblue modules were potentially related to flavonol synthesis. Of them, 7 MYB transcript factors had been verified to regulate flavonoid synthesis. Furthermore, overexpressed
Tartary buckwheat is a kind of plant which can be used as medicine as well as edible. Abscisic acid (ABA) signaling plays an important role in the response of plants such as tartary buckwheat to drought and other stress. However, there are not many studies on tartary buckwheat by ABA treatment. In this study, the germination, root length, stoma, and anthocyanin accumulation of tartary buckwheat were all significantly affected by ABA. ABA signaling is important for plants to respond to drought and other stresses, the bZIP gene family is an important member of the ABA signaling pathway. Through the analysis of the origin relationship between tartary buckwheat bZIP family and its related species, 19 bZIP genes in tartary buckwheat were found to be relatively conserved, which laid a foundation for further study of bZIP family. The qRT-PCR results showed that most of the group members were induced by ABA treatment, including 0, 15, 30, 50, 70 µM ABA and 0, 0.5, 2, 4, 8, 16, 24 h ABA treatment. These results suggested that ABA could affect the growth and development of tartary buckwheat, and FtbZIPs might have different functions in the response of tartary buckwheat to drought. This study will be helpful to further analyze the genetic breeding and economic value of tartary buckwheat resistance.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gartn.) is a highly functional crop that is poised to be the target of many future breeding efforts. The reliable ex situ conservation of various genetic resources is essential for the modern breeding of tartary buckwheat varieties. We developed PCR-based co-dominant insertion/deletion (InDel) markers to discriminate tartary buckwheat genetic resources. First, we obtained the whole genome from 26 accessions across a superscaffold-scale reference genome of 569.37 Mb for tartary buckwheat cv. "Daegwan 3-7." Next, 171,926 homogeneous and 53,755 heterogeneous InDels were detected by comparing 26 accessions with the "Daegwan 3-7" reference sequence. Of these, 100 candidate InDels ranging from 5-20 bp in length were chosen for validation, and 50 of them revealed polymorphisms between the 26 accessions and "Daegwan 3-7." The validated InDels were further tested through the assessment of their likelihood to give rise to a single or a few PCR products in 50 other accessions, covering most tartary buckwheat genome types. The major allele frequencies ranged from 0.5616 at the TB42 locus to 0.9863 at the TB48 locus, with the average PIC value of 0.1532 with a range of 0.0267-0.3712. To create a user-friendly system, the homology of the genotypes between and among the accessions were visualized in both one- (1D) and two-dimensional (2D) barcode types by comparing amplicon polymorphisms with the reference variety, "Daegwan 3-7." A phylogenetic tree and population structure of the 76 accessions according to amplicon polymorphisms for the 50 InDel markers corresponded to those using non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphism variants, indicating that the barcode system based on the 50 InDels was a useful tool to improve the reliability of identification of tartary buckwheat accessions in the germplasm stocks.
Tartary buckwheat is an important minor crop species with high nutritional and medicinal value and is widely planted worldwide. Cultivated Tartary buckwheat plants are tall and have hollow stems that lodge easily, which severely affects their yield and hinders the development of the Tartary buckwheat industry. Heifeng No. 1 seeds were treated with ethylmethanesulfonate (EMS) to generate a mutant library. The dwarf mutant ftdm was selected from the mutagenized population, and the agronomic characteristics giving rise to the dwarf phenotype were evaluated. Ultra-fast liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (UFLC-ESI-MS/MS) was performed to determine the factors underlying the different phenotypes between the wild-type (WT) and ftdm plants. In addition, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed via the HiSeq 2000 platform, and the resulting transcriptomic data were analysed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) variant analysis revealed possible sites associated with dwarfism. The expression levels of the potential DEGs between the WT and ftdm mutant were then measured via qRT-PCR and fragments per kilobase of transcript per million mapped reads (FPKM). The plant height (PH) of the ftdm mutant decreased to 42% of that of the WT, and compared with the WT, the mutant and had a higher breaking force (BF) and lower lodging index (LI). Lower GA4 and GA7 contents and higher contents of jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA) and brassinolactone (BR) were detected in the stems of the ftdm mutant compared with the WT. Exogenous application of GAs could not revert the dwarfism of the ftdm mutant. On the basis of the transcriptomic analysis, 146 homozygous SNP loci were identified. In total, 12 DEGs with nonsynonymous mutations were ultimately identified, which were considered potential candidate genes related to the dwarf trait. When the sequences of eight genes whose expression was downregulated and four genes whose expression was upregulated were compared, SKIP14, an F-box protein whose sequence is 85% homologous to that of SLY1 in Arabidopsis, presented an amino acid change (from Ser to Asn) and was expressed at a lower level in the stems of the ftdm mutant compared with the WT. Hence, we speculated that this amino acid change in SKIP14 resulted in a disruption in GA signal transduction, indirectly decreasing the GA content and downregulating the expression of genes involved in GA biosynthesis or the GA response. Further studies are needed to determine the molecular basis underlying the dwarf phenotype of the ftdm mutant. We report a Tartary buckwheat EMS dwarf mutant, ftdm, suitable for high-density planting and commercial farming. A significant decrease in GA4 and GA7 levels was detected in the ftdm mutant, and 12 DEGs expressed in the stems of the ftdm mutant were selected as candidates of the dwarfing gene. One nonsynonymous mutation was detected in the SKIP14 gene in the ftdm mutant, and this gene had a lower transcript level compared with that in the WT.
Tartary buckwheat is a nutritious pseudo-cereal crop that is resistant to abiotic stresses, such as drought. However, the buckwheat's mechanisms for responding to drought stress remains unknown. We investigated the changes in physiology and gene expression under drought stress, which was simulated by treatment with polyethylene glycol (PEG). Five physiological indexes, namely MDA content, H
Plant transitions to land require robust cell walls for regulatory adaptations and to resist changing environments. Cell walls provide essential plasticity for plant cell division and defense, which are often conferred by the expansin superfamily with cell wall-loosening functions. However, the evolutionary mechanisms of expansin during plant terrestrialization are unclear. Here, we identified 323 expansin proteins in 12 genomes from algae to angiosperms. Phylogenetic evolutionary, structural, motif gain and loss and Ka/Ks analyses indicated that highly conserved expansin proteins were already present in algae and expanded and purified after plant terrestrialization. We found that the expansion of the FtEXPA subfamily was caused by duplication events and that the functions of certain duplicated genes may have differentiated. More importantly, we generated space-time expression profiles and finally identified five differentially expressed FtEXPs in both large and small fruit Tartary buckwheat that may regulate fruit size by responding to indoleacetic acid. A total of 323 expansin proteins from 12 representative plants were identified in our study during terrestrialization, and the expansin family that originated from algae expanded rapidly after the plants landed. The EXPA subfamily has more members and conservative evolution in angiosperms. FtEXPA1, FtEXPA11, FtEXPA12, FtEXPA19 and FtEXPA24 can respond to indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) signals and regulate fruit development. Our study provides a blueprint for improving the agronomic traits of Tartary buckwheat and a reference for defining the evolutionary history of the expansin family during plant transitions to land.
In order to enrich the transcriptome data of Fagopyrum dibotrys plants, analyze the genes encoding key enzyme involved in flavonoid biosynthesis pathway, and mine their functional genes, in this study, we performed RNA sequencing analysis for the rhizomes, roots, flowers, leaves and stems of F. dibotrys on the BGISEQ-500 sequencing platform. After de novo assembly of transcripts, a total of 205 619 unigenes were generated and 132 372 unigenes were obtained and annotated into seven public databases, of which, 81 327 unigenes were mapped to the GO database and most of the unigenes were annotated in cellular process, biological regulation, binding and catalytic activity. Besides, 86 922 unigenes were enriched in 136 pathways using KEGG database' and we identified 82 unigenes that encodes key enzymes involved in flavonoid biosynthesis. Comparing rhizome with root, flower, leaf or stem in F. dibotrys, 27 962 co-expressed differentially expressed genes(DEGs) were obtained. Among them, 23 515 DEGs of rhizome tissue-specific were enriched into 132 pathways and 13 unigenes were significantly enriched in biosynthesis of flavone and flavonol. In addition, we also identified 3 427 unigenes encoding 60 transcription factor(TFs) families as well as four unigenes encoding bHLH TFs were enriched in flavonoid biosynthesis. Our results greatly enriched the transcriptome database of plants, provided a reference for the analysis of key enzymes involved in flavonoid biosynthesis in plants, and will facilitate the study of the functions and regulatory mechanisms of key enzymes involved in flavonoid biosynthesis in F. dibotrys at the genetic level.
Key enzymes play a vital role in plant growth and development. However, the evolutionary relationships between genes encoding key enzymes in the metabolic pathway of Tartary buckwheat flavonoids are poorly understood. Based on the published Tartary buckwheat genome sequence and related Tartary buckwheat transcriptome data, 48 key enzyme-encoding genes involved in flavonoid metabolism were screened from the Tartary buckwheat genome in this study; the chromosome localization, gene structure and promoter elements of these enzyme-encoding gene were also investigated. Gene structure analysis revealed relatively conserved 5' exon sequences among the 48 genes, indicating that the structural diversity of key enzyme-encoding genes is low in Tartary buckwheat. Through promoter analysis, these key enzyme-encoding genes were found to contain a large number of light-response elements and hormone-response elements. In addition, some genes could bind MYB transcription factors, participating in the regulation of flavonoid biosynthesis. The transcription level of the 48 key enzyme-encoding gene varied greatly among tissues. In this study, we identified 48 key enzyme-encoding genes involved in flavonoid metabolic pathways, and elucidated the structure, evolution and tissue-specific expression patterns of these genes. These results lay a foundation for further understanding the functional characteristics and evolutionary relationships of key enzyme-encoding genes involved in the flavonoid metabolic pathway in Tartary buckwheat.
Tartary buckwheat seed development is an extremely complex process involving many gene regulatory pathways. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been identified as the important negative regulators of gene expression and performed crucial regulatory roles in various plant biological processes. However, whether miRNAs participate in Tartary buckwheat seed development remains unexplored. In this study, we first identified 26 miRNA biosynthesis genes in the Tartary buckwheat genome and described their phylogeny and expression profiling. Then we performed small RNA (sRNA) sequencing for Tartary buckwheat seeds at three developmental stages to identify the miRNAs associated with seed development. In total, 230 miRNAs, including 101 conserved and 129 novel miRNAs, were first identified in Tartary buckwheat, and 3268 target genes were successfully predicted. Among these miRNAs, 76 exhibited differential expression during seed development, and 1534 target genes which correspond to 74 differentially expressed miRNAs (DEMs) were identified. Based on integrated analysis of DEMs and their targets expression, 65 miRNA-mRNA interaction pairs (25 DEMs corresponding to 65 target genes) were identified that exhibited significantly opposite expression during Tartary buckwheat seed development, and 6 of the miRNA-mRNA pairs were further verified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and ligase-mediated rapid amplification of 5' cDNA ends (5'-RLM-RACE). Functional annotation of the 65 target mRNAs showed that 56 miRNA-mRNA interaction pairs major involved in cell differentiation and proliferation, cell elongation, hormones response, organogenesis, embryo and endosperm development, seed size, mineral elements transport, and flavonoid biosynthesis, which indicated that they are the key miRNA-mRNA pairs for Tartary buckwheat seed development. Our findings provided insights for the first time into miRNA-mediated regulatory pathways in Tartary buckwheat seed development and suggested that miRNAs play important role in Tartary buckwheat seed development. These findings will be help to study the roles and regulatory mechanism of miRNAs in Tartary buckwheat seed development.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) is an economically important pseudocereal crop, which can adapt well to extreme environments, including low nitrogen (LN) stress. However, little is known regarding the associated molecular mechanisms. In this study, the molecular mechanism of Tartary buckwheat roots in response to different doses of nitrate was investigated by combining physiological changes with transcriptional regulatory network. LN improved elongation and branching of lateral roots, indicating that the plasticity of lateral roots drives the adaption of Tartary buckwheat under LN condition. The roots of the seedlings that were cultivated under four N conditions were selected for RNA-Seq analysis. In total 1686 nitrate dose-responsive genes were identified. Of these genes, 16 genes encoding N transporters showed response to N availability, and they may play important roles in N transport and root system architecture in Tartary buckwheat roots. 108 transcription factors (TFs) showed dose-response to N availability, and they may regulate N response and root growth under varied N conditions by modulating the expression of N transporters. A NIN-like protein, FtNLP7, was identified and it may contribute to the transcriptional regulation of N transporters. Furthermore, 81 N-responsive genes were identified as the small secreted peptides (SSPs). 48 N-responsive SSPs were annotated as hypothetical proteins and they may be the species-specific proteins of Tartary buckwheat. This paper provides useful information for further investigation of the mechanisms underlying the adaptation of Tartary buckwheat under N-deficient condition.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), an important pseudocereal crop, has high economic value due to its nutritional and medicinal properties. However, dehulling of Tartary buckwheat is difficult owing to its thick and tough hull, which has greatly limited the development of the Tartary buckwheat processing industry. The construction of high-resolution genetic maps serves as a basis for identifying quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and qualitative trait genes for agronomic traits. In this study, a recombinant inbred lines (XJ-RILs) population derived from a cross between the easily dehulled Rice-Tartary type and Tartary buckwheat type was genotyped using restriction site-associated DNA (RAD) sequencing to construct a high-density SNP genetic map. Furthermore, QTLs for 1000-grain weight (TGW) and genes controlling hull type were mapped in multiple environments. In total, 4151 bin markers comprising 122,185 SNPs were used to construct the genetic linkage map. The map consisted of 8 linkage groups and covered 1444.15 cM, with an average distance of 0.35 cM between adjacent bin markers. Nine QTLs for TGW were detected and distributed on four loci on chromosome 1 and 4. A major locus detected in all three trials was mapped in 38.2-39.8 cM region on chromosome 1, with an LOD score of 18.1-37.0, and explained for 23.6-47.5% of the phenotypic variation. The genes controlling hull type were mapped to chromosome 1 between marker Block330 and Block331, which was closely followed by the major locus for TGW. The expression levels of the seven candidate genes controlling hull type present in the region between Block330 and Block336 was low during grain development, and no significant difference was observed between the parental lines. Six non-synonymous coding SNPs were found between the two parents in the region. We constructed a high-density SNP genetic map for the first time in Tartary buckwheat. The mapped major loci controlling TGW and hull type will be valuable for gene cloning and revealing the mechanism underlying grain development and easy dehulling, and marker-assisted selection in Tartary buckwheat.
Lapathoside A, a phenylpropanoid ester, was isolated from the roots of buckwheat by searching for bioactive compounds against human pancreatic cancer cells. Buckwheat root extracts, prepared by 70% ethanol, were separated into n-hexane, methylene chloride, ethyl acetate, n-butanol, and water fraction by solvent partitioning. Seven fractions were obtained from the ethyl acetate fraction by liquid chromatography, and fraction No. 6 contained lapathoside A. The effects of lapathoside A on Panc-1 and SNU-213 human pancreatic cancer cell lines were examined. The structure of lapathoside A was determined by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, and nuclear magnetic resonance analysis. Next, we investigated whether lapathoside A has anticancer activity in human pancreatic cancer cell lines (PANC-1 and SNU-213). After treatment with 25 μM lapathoside A, viability of PANC-1 and SNU-213 cells decreased to about 40 and 27%, respectively. In addition, lapathoside A treatment also increased apoptosis while affecting the expression levels of apoptotic proteins. The effect of lapathoside A on apoptosis was confirmed in pancreatic cancer cell lines, supporting the application of lapathoside A in the treatment of pancreatic cancer.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) is an economical crop with excellent edible, nutritional, and medicinal values. However, the production of Tartary buckwheat is very low and it is urgent to breed high-yield varieties for satisfying the increasing market demand. Heterotrimeric G-protein signaling involves in the regulation of agronomical traits and fruit development in several plant species. In this study, fifteen genes involved in G-protein signaling were characterized in Tartary buckwheat and their potential roles in fruit development were revealed by expression analysis. The exon-intron organization and conserved motif of Tartary buckwheat G-protein signaling genes were similar to those in other dicot plants. All these genes were ubiquitously and differently expressed in five tissues. The expression patterns of Tartary buckwheat G-protein signaling genes in fruit suggested they may play important roles in the fruit at early development stage, which was supported by meta-analysis of G-protein signaling genes' expression in the fruits from different species. Furthermore, we found the expression of G-protein signaling genes in fruit showed high correlation with 178 transcription factors, which indicated a transcriptional regulatory loop moderating G-protein signaling genes' expression during fruit development. This paper provides new insights into the physiological functions of G-protein signaling in fruit.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is a nutritionally balanced and flavonoid-rich crop plant that has been in cultivation for 4000 years and is now grown globally. Despite its nutraceutical and agricultural value, the characterization of its genetics and its domestication history is limited. Here, we report a comprehensive database of Tartary buckwheat genomic variation based on whole-genome resequencing of 510 germplasms. Our analysis suggests that two independent domestication events occurred in southwestern and northern China, resulting in diverse characteristics of modern Tartary buckwheat varieties. Genome-wide association studies for important agricultural traits identify several candidate genes, including FtUFGT3 and FtAP2YT1 that significantly correlate with flavonoid accumulation and grain weight, respectively. We describe the domestication history of Tartary buckwheat and provide a detailed resource of genomic variation to allow for genomic-assisted breeding in the improvement of elite cultivars.
Manganese (Mn) is an essential element for plant growth and development, but transporters required for Mn uptake have only been identified in a few plant species. Here, we functionally characterized a member of the natural resistance-associated macrophage proteins (Nramps) family, FeNramp5 in buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench), which is known as a species well adapted to acidic soils. FeNramp5 was mainly expressed in the roots, and its expression was upregulated by the deficiency of Mn and Fe. Furthermore, spatial and tissue-specific expression analysis showed that FeNramp5 was expressed in all tissues of the basal root regions. FeNramp5-GFP protein was localized to the plasma membrane when transiently expressed in buckwheat leaf protoplast. FeNramp5 showed the transport activity for Mn2+ and Cd2+ but not for Fe2+ when expressed in yeast. Furthermore, the transport activity for Mn2+ was higher in yeast expressing FeNramp5 than in yeast expressing AtNramp1. FeNramp5 was also able to complement the phenotype of Arabidopsis atnramp1 mutant in terms of the growth and accumulation of Mn and Cd. The absolute expression level of AtNramp1 was comparable to that of FeNramp5 in the roots, but buckwheat accumulated higher Mn than Arabidopsis when grown under the same condition. Further analysis showed that at least motif B in FeNramp5 seems important for its high transport activity for Mn. These results indicate that FeNramp5 is a transporter for the uptake of Mn and Cd and its higher transport activity for Mn is probably associated with higher Mn accumulation in buckwheat.
Global climate change and the industrial revolution have increased the concentration of tropospheric ozone, a photochemical air pollutant that can negatively affect plant growth and crop production. In the present study, we investigated the effects of O
Despite abundant flowering throughout the season, common buckwheat develops a very low number of kernels probably due to competition for assimilates. We hypothesized that plants with a shorter flowering period may give a higher seed yield. To verify the hypothesis, we studied nutrient stress in vitro and in planta and analyzed different embryological and yield parameters, including hormone profile in the flowers. In vitro cultivated flowers on media with strongly reduced nutrient content demonstrated a drastic increase in degenerated embryo sacs. In in planta experiments, where 50% or 75% of flowers or all lateral ramifications were removed, the reduction of the flower competition by half turned out to be the most promising treatment for improving yield. This treatment increased the frequency of properly developed embryo sacs, the average number of mature seeds per plant, and their mass. Strong seed compensation under 50% inflorescence removal could result from increased production of salicylic and jasmonic acid that both favor more effective pollinator attraction. Plants in single-shoot cultivation finished their vegetation earlier, and they demonstrated greater single seed mass per plant than in control. This result suggests that plants of common buckwheat with shorter blooming period could deliver higher seed yield.
Tartary buckwheat has gained popularity in the food marketplace due to its abundant nutrients and high bioactive flavonoid content. However, its difficult dehulling process has severely restricted its food processing industry development. Rice-tartary buckwheat, a rare local variety, is very easily dehulled, but the cellular, physiological and molecular mechanisms responsible for this easy dehulling remains largely unclear. In this study, we integrated analyses of the comparative cellular, physiological, transcriptome, and gene coexpression network to insight into the reason that rice-tartary buckwheat is easy to dehull. Compared to normal tartary buckwheat, rice-tartary buckwheat has significantly brittler and thinner hull, and thinner cell wall in hull sclerenchyma cells. Furthermore, the cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin contents of rice-tartary buckwheat hull were significantly lower than those in all or part of the tested normal tartary buckwheat cultivars, respectively, and the significant difference in cellulose and hemicellulose contents between rice-tartary buckwheat and normal tartary buckwheat began at 10 days after pollination (DAP). Comparative transcriptome analysis identified a total of 9250 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the rice- and normal-tartary buckwheat hulls at four different development stages. Weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) of all DEGs identified a key module associated with the formation of the hull difference between rice- and normal-tartary buckwheat. In this specific module, many secondary cell wall (SCW) biosynthesis regulatory and structural genes, which involved in cellulose and hemicellulose biosynthesis, were identified as hub genes and displayed coexpression. These identified hub genes of SCW biosynthesis were significantly lower expression in rice-tartary buckwheat hull than in normal tartary buckwheat at the early hull development stages. Among them, the expression of 17 SCW biosynthesis relative-hub genes were further verified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Our results showed that the lower expression of SCW biosynthesis regulatory and structural genes in rice-tartary buckwheat hull in the early development stages contributes to its easy dehulling by reducing the content of cell wall chemical components, which further effects the cell wall thickness of hull sclerenchyma cells, and hull thickness and mechanical strength.
Weimaining (WMN) is a condensed Tannin compound extracted from Fagopyrum cymosum (Trevir.) Meisn., which comes from the roots of buckwheat, a type of Chinese herbal medicine, was first recorded in "Bencao Shiyi". WMN has inhibitory effects on multiple cancer types and is widely used in clinical practice; however, the mechanism underlying the anti-tumor effect of WMN is still unclear. To investigate the effect of WMN on the cellular activity and apoptosis of mouse breast cancer 4T1-luc2 cells, and caspase-3 and cleaved-caspase-3 expression. Luciferase-labeled mouse breast cancer 4T1-luc2 cells were inoculated into the mouse breast pad to establish a luciferase-labeled mouse breast cancer cell model. BALB/C-nu mice were randomly divided into model, WMN, and low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) groups (n = 10). Another 10 mice served as the normal control group (no cancer cell injection). The WMN group was administered WMN 250 mg/kg per day for 14 days, the LMWH group was given LMWH (1500 U/kg) daily for 14 days by intraperitoneal injection, and the model and normal control groups were given an equal dose of 0.9% NaCl. The number and distribution of transplanted tumors in 4T1-luc2 breast cancer cells were observed in nude mice by an in vivo imaging system at the time of inoculation after successful modeling, and on days 7 and 14 after drug administration. Tumor cell apoptosis was detected by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) method; caspase-3 mRNA expression was detected by RT-PCR and Western blotting was applied to detect the levels of caspase-3 and cleaved-caspase-3 protein expression. The apoptosis index (AI) of the WMN group was detected by the TUNEL method, and the AI increased with the increase of treatment time. Compared with the model group, the mRNA expression of caspase-3 and the protein levels of caspase-3 and cleaved-caspase-3 were notably elevated in the WMN group. After in vivo bioluminescent imaging, the total photon number of the WMN group was found to be lower than that of the LWMH group on day 14 after administration. Additionally, the AI and expression levels of caspase-3 mRNA, caspase-3, and cleaved-caspase-3 protein of the WMN group were higher than those of the LWMH group. WMN can effectively suppress the growth of 4T1-luc2 breast cancer xenografts in mice, and promote the apoptosis of breast cancer cells by upregulating the expression of caspase-3.
Flavonoids can not only help plants resist ultraviolet and pathogen attacks, but also show a wide range of therapeutic prospects for human health, including antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-hypertension. Tartary buckwheat, as medicinal and food homologous crop, is rich in flavonoids, among which rutin may prevent liver damage. The one of the major objectives of Tartary buckwheat breeding is to cultivate varieties that have large fruits, high flavonoids and nutrient contents. Members of the cytochrome P450 monooxygenase (CYP) superfamily play a vital role in the synthesis of flavonoids, plant growth and development. Whole-genome analyses of the CYP family have been performed in several plants, but the CYP family has not been characterized in Tartary buckwheat. In this study, 285 FtCYPs were identified from the genome to improve the rutin content and quality of Tartary buckwheat. By exploring the structure, motif composition, tandem and segmental duplication events of FtCYPs, as well as evolutionary relationships with CYPs in other plants, we preliminarily screened potential FtCYPs regulating rutin synthesis, growth and development. The expression levels of the FtCYPs in different organs and fruits at various periods were measured. This study provides a solid foundation for verifying the function of FtCYPs, cultivating high rutin Tartary buckwheat varieties.
FtMYB18 plays a role in the repression of anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins accumulation by strongly down-regulating the CHS and DFR genes in Tartary buckwheat, and the C5 motif plays an important role in this process. Anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins (PAs) are important flavonoids in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.), which provides various vibrant color and stronge abiotic stress resistance. Their synthesis is generally regulated by MYB transcription factors at transcription level. However, the negative regulations of MYB and their effects on flavonol metabolism are poorly understood. A SG4-like MYB subfamily TF, FtMYB18, containing C5 motif was identified from Tartary buckwheat. The expression of FtMYB18 was not only showed a negative correlation with anthocyanins and PAs content but also strongly respond to MeJA and ABA. As far as the transgenic lines with FtMYB18 overexpression, anthocyanins and PAs accumulations were decreased through down-regulating expression levels of NtCHS and NtDFR in tobacco, AtDFR and AtTT12 in Arabidopsis, FtCHS, FtDFR and FtANS in Tartary buckwheat hairy roots, respectively. However, FtMYB18 showed no effect on the FLS gene expression and the metabolites content in flavonol synthesis branch. The further molecular interaction analysis indicated FtMYB18 could mediate the inhibition of anthocyanins and PAs synthesis by forming MBW transcriptional complex with FtTT8 and FtTTG1, or MYB-JAZ complex with FtJAZ1/-3/-4/-7. Importantly, in FtMYB18 mutant lines with C5 motif deletion (FtMYB18-C), both of anthocyanins and PAs accumulations had recovered to the similar level as that in wild type, which was attributed to the weakened MBW complex activity or the deficient molecular interaction between FtMYB18ΔC5 with FtJAZ3/-4. The results showed that FtMYB18 could suppress anthocyanins and PAs synthesis at transcription level through the specific interaction of C5 motif with other proteins in Tartary buckwheat.
Fagopyrum cymosum has been considered as a traditional medicinal plant that belongs to Fagopyrum, which has exhibited great pharmaceutical potential due to its abundant flavonoid accumulation. The hairy roots induced by Agrobacterium rhizogenes has been utilized to produce valuable specialized metabolites or reveals plant metabolic processes, whereas the underlying regulatory networks of flavonoid biosynthesis in hairy roots of F. cymosum remained unexplored. Here, the regulatory transcription factor TrMYB4 cloned from Trifolium repens with purple striped leaves was considered to investigate the mechanism of flavonoids biosynthesis in hairy roots of F. cymosum. Results showed that the expression of key genes involved in rutin biosynthesis pathway from TrMYB4 hairy roots were significantly up-regulated compared with non-transgenic hairy roots, while the content of total flavonoids and rutin in TrMYB4 hairy roots also increased consistently. It revealed the TrMYB4 transcription factor could regulate the rutin biosynthesis in F. cymosum. Meanwhile, our research provided a theoretical reference for the industrial production of rutin using F. cymosum hairy roots.
Tartary buckwheat (TB) [Fagopyrum tataricum (L.) Gaertn] possesses various biological and pharmacological activities because it contains abundant secondary metabolites such as flavonoids, especially rutin. Agrobacterium rhizogenes have been gradually used worldwide to induce hairy roots in medicinal plants to investigate gene functions and increase the yield of secondary metabolites. In this study, we have described a detailed method to generate A. rhizogenes-mediated hairy roots in TB. Cotyledons and hypocotyledonary axis at 7-10 days were selected as explants and infected with A. rhizogenes carrying a binary vector, which induced adventitious hairy roots that appeared after 1 week. The generated hairy root transformation was identified based on morphology, resistance selection (kanamycin), and reporter gene expression (green fluorescent protein). Subsequently, the transformed hairy roots were self-propagated as required. Meanwhile, a myeloblastosis (MYB) transcription factor, FtMYB116, was transformed into the TB genome using the A. rhizogenes-mediated hairy roots to verify the role of FtMYB116 in synthesizing flavonoids. The results showed that the expression of flavonoid-related genes and the yield of flavonoid compounds (rutin and quercetin) were significantly (p < 0.01) promoted by FtMYB116, indicating that A. rhizogenes-mediated hairy roots can be used as an effective alternative tool to investigate gene functions and the production of secondary metabolites. The detailed step-by-step protocol described in this study for generating hairy roots can be adopted for any genetic transformation or other medicinal plants after adjustment.
Tartary buckwheat rice-type cultivars, which allow easy dehulling, lacked periclinal cell divisions that proceed underneath the epidermis in the proximity of ovary midribs in non-rice-type cultivars. The easy dehulling in these cultivars was associated with a G→A substitution in an AGAMOUS ortholog. Ease of dehulling in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) can affect the quality of its products. Tartary buckwheat cultivars that allow easy dehulling are called rice-type cultivars. The rice and non-rice hull types are determined by a single gene, but this gene is unclear. Here, we show that cells underneath the epidermis in the proximity of ovary midribs undergo periclinal cell divisions in non-rice-type cultivars but do not in a rice-type cultivar. The cells that arose from the periclinal cell divisions later underwent lignification, which should increase mechanical strength of hulls. In RNA sequencing, a partial mRNA of an AGAMOUS ortholog in Tartary buckwheat (FtAG) was found to be absent in the rice-type cultivar. Cloning of this gene revealed that this is a 42-bp deletion due to a G→A substitution at a splice acceptor site in the FtAG genomic region. In F2 progeny derived from a cross between non-rice-type and rice-type cultivars, all the rice-type plants exhibited the homozygous A/A allele at this site, whereas all the Tartary-type plants exhibited either the homozygous G/G allele or the heterozygous A/G allele. These results suggest that FtAG is a candidate for the gene that determines ease of dehulling in Tartary buckwheat. The DNA marker that we developed to distinguish the FtAG alleles can be useful in breeding Tartary buckwheat cultivars.
The WRKY gene family plays important roles in plant biological functions and has been identified in many plant species. With the publication of the Tartary buckwheat genome, the evolutionary characteristics of the WRKY gene family can be systematically explored and the functions of In this study, the A total of 76 We have identified several candidate
With people's increasing needs for health concern, rutin and emodin in tartary buckwheat have attracted much attention for their antioxidant, anti-diabetic and reducing weight function. However, the biosynthesis of rutin and emodin in tartary buckwheat is still unclear; especially their later glycosylation contributing to make them more stable and soluble is uncovered. Based on tartary buckwheat' genome, the gene structures of 106 UGTs were analyzed; 21 candidate FtUGTs were selected to enzymatic test by comparing their transcript patterns. Among them, FtUGT73BE5 and other 4 FtUGTs were identified to glucosylate flavonol or emodin in vitro; especially rFtUGT73BE5 could catalyze the glucosylation of all tested flavonoids and emodin. Furthermore, the identical in vivo functions of FtUGT73BE5 were demonstrated in tartary buckwheat hairy roots. The transcript profile of FtUGT73BE5 was consistent with the accumulation trend of rutin in plant; this gene may relate to anti-adversity for its transcripts were up-regulated by MeJA, and repressed by ABA.
bZIP transcription factors have been reported to be involved in many different biological processes in plants. The ABA (abscisic acid)-dependent AREB/ABF-SnRK2 pathway has been shown to play a key role in the response to osmotic stress in model plants. In this study, a novel bZIP gene,
Lead (Pb) pollution is a widespread environmental problem that is harmful to living organisms. Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), a member of the family Polygonaceae, exhibits short growth cycles and abundant biomass production, could be an ideal plant for phytoremediation due to its high Pb tolerance. Here, we aimed to explore the molecular basis underlying the responses of this plant to Pb stress. In our study, ultrastructural localization assays revealed that Pb ions primarily accumulate in leaf vacuoles. RNA deep sequencing (RNA-Seq) of tartary buckwheat leaves was performed on two Pb-treated samples, named Pb1 (2000 mg/kg Pb (NO Combining our findings with those of previous studies, we generated a schematic model that shows the metabolic processes of tartary buckwheat under Pb stress. This study provides important data for further genomic analyses of the biological and molecular mechanisms of Pb tolerance and accumulation in tartary buckwheat.
Oligosaccharins, which are biologically active oligosaccharide fragments of cell wall polysaccharides, may regulate the processes of growth and development as well as the response to stress factors. We characterized the effect of the oligosaccharin that stimulates rhizogenesis (OSRG) on the gene expression profile in the course of IAA-induced formation of adventitious roots in hypocotyl explants of buckwheat (
The WRKY transcription factor family includes plant-specific transcription factors that are widely involved in plant biotic and abiotic stress responses, growth and development. Tartary buckwheat is a type of small grain with strong resistance to adverse growing conditions. No systematic exploration of the WRKY family in Tartary buckwheat has yet been reported. In this paper, we report the FtWRKY46 gene from Tartary buckwheat and study its role in salt tolerance. FtWRKY46 has transcriptional activation activity in yeast, and FtWRKY46 fused to yellow fluorescent protein localizes to the nucleus. Further studies have found that its transcriptional activation region is located at the N-terminus. A yeast one-hybrid assay indicated that FtWRKY46 could bind to a W-box and activate reporter gene expression. Similarly, transient cotransfection showed that FtWRKY46 could specifically bind to W-box regions and activate reporter gene expression in plants. Furthermore, ectopic expression of FtWRKY46 could enhance Arabidopsis tolerance to salt stress. More specifically, the seed germination rate, root length, chlorophyll content and proline content were significantly higher in transgenic plants ectopically expressing FtWRKY46 than in WT plants after salt stress (P < 0.05), while MDA levels were significantly lower than in WT plants (P < 0.05). Additionally, salt treatment increased the expression of stress-related genes. To summarize, our results suggest that ectopic expression of FtWRKY46 enhance the stress tolerance of transgenic plants by modulating ROS clearance and stress-related gene expression.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) a kind of edible and medicinal plant, is of great nutritional value. It is difficult to remove the hull of Tartary buckwheat fruit and breeding new easy-dehulled varieties has been one of the major breeding objectives. The bHLH gene family plays a vital role in plant growth and fruit dehiscence. In order to improve Tartary buckwheat breeding, we need to study the bHLH gene family for excavating genes with potential regulation of fruit development and dehiscence. Here, 164 Fagopyrum tataricum bHLH (FtbHLH) genes were identified. Analyses of gene structure and motif composition illustrate that the members of specific FtbHLH subfamily are relatively conserved. Synteny and phylogenetic analyses of bHLH genes in Tartary buckwheat and other plants lay a foundation for further exploring the evolutionary characteristic of the FtbHLH genes (FtbHLHs). qRT-PCR experiments showed that FtbHLHs expression patterns were different in plant organs, indicating that they may perform diverse functions. In addition, some genes that potentially regulate flower and fruit development and easy dehulling were screened out. Overall, this study will be helpful for further analyzing the biological function of FtbHLHs and provides clues for improving the genetic breeding and economic value of the Tartary buckwheat.
Heat shock transcription factor (Hsfs) is widely found in eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Hsfs can not only help organisms resist high temperature, but also participate in the regulation of plant growth and development (such as involved in the regulation of seed maturity and affects the root length of plants). The Hsf gene was first isolated from yeast and then gradually found in plants and sequenced, such as Arabidopsis thaliana, rice, maize. Tartary buckwheat is a rutin-rich crop, and its nutritional value and medicinal value are receiving more and more attention. However, there are few studies on the Hsf genes in Tartary buckwheat. With the whole genome sequence of Tartary buckwheat, we can effectively study the Hsf gene family in Tartary buckwheat. According to the study, 29 Hsf genes of Tartary buckwheat (FtHsf) were identified and renamed according to location of FtHsf genes on chromosome after removing a redundant gene. Therefore, only 29 FtHsf genes truly had the functional characteristics of the FtHsf family. The 29 FtHsf genes were located on 8 chromosomes of Tartary buckwheat, and we found gene duplication events in the FtHsf gene family, which may promote the expansion of the FtHsf gene family. Then, the motif compositions and the evolutionary relationship of FtHsf proteins and the gene structures, cis-acting elements in the promoter, synteny analysis of FtHsf genes were discussed in detail. What's more, we found that the transcription levels of FtHsf in different tissues and fruit development stages were significantly different by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), implied that FtHsf may differ in function. In this study, only 29 Hsf genes were identified in Tartary buckwheat. Meanwhile, we also classified the FtHsf genes, and studied their structure, evolutionary relationship and the expression pattern. This series of studies has certain reference value for the study of the specific functional characteristics of Tartary buckwheat Hsf genes and to improve the yield and quality of Tartary buckwheat in the future.
Kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside is one of the compounds isolated from tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tatricum), and its biological effects have not been studied yet. The present study examined the anti‑inflammatory effects of kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside and explore its regulatory mechanisms in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)‑induced macrophage RAW264.7 cells. Kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside exhibited no cytotoxic effect in RAW 264.7 macrophage and 293 cell lines up to 300 µM. As the concentration of kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside was increased, the activity of nitric oxide was inhibited in LPS‑stimulated RAW264.7 cells. In addition, kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside treatment downregulated the expression of inflammation‑related cytokines tumor necrosis factor‑α and interleukin‑6 in LPS‑stimulated RAW264.7 cells. Furthermore, kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside treatment suppressed inflammatory‑mediated factors, such as inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxyganse‑2. These inflammation‑related proteins are known to be regulated by NF‑κB and mitogen‑activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling, therefore the effect of kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside on these pathways was investigated. The results demonstrated that kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside decreased the expression of inhibitor of κB (IκB) protein and IκB kinases; as a result, the nuclear translocation and expression of NF‑κB was inhibited in LPS‑stimulated RAW264.7 cells. Furthermore, kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside inhibited the phosphorylation of p38, extracellular signal‑regulated kinase and stress‑activated protein kinase in LPS‑stimulated RAW264.7 cells. Thus, the present data demonstrated that kaempferol‑3‑O‑β‑rutinoside suppressed inflammation‑related gene expression through the NF‑κB and MAPK pathways, and suggested that it may be a useful reagent in pharmacological research.
Plants are subjected to a variety of abiotic stresses during their lifetime, and drought and salt stress are some of the main causes of reduced crop yields. Previous studies have shown that AREB/ABFs within bZIP transcription factors are involved in plant drought and salt stress responses in an ABA-dependent manner. However, the properties and functions of AREB/ABFs in Fagopyrum tataricum, a cereal with good resistance to abiotic stresses, are poorly understood. In this study, a gene encoding an AREB/ABF, designated FtbZIP83, was first isolated from Tartary buckwheat. Expression analysis in Tartary buckwheat indicated that FtbZIP83 was significantly induced by abscisic acid (ABA), NaCl and polyethylene glycol (PEG). The overexpression of FtbZIP83 in Arabidopsis resulted in increased drought/salt tolerance, which was attributed not only to higher proline (Pro) contents and antioxidant enzyme activity in transgenic lines compared with controls but also to the lower reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and malondialdehyde (MDA) content. In addition, we found that FtbZIP83 was able to respond to drought and salt stress by upregulating the transcript abundance of downstream ABA-inducible gene. Furthermore, promoter sequence analysis showed that ABREs were present, and the activity of the FtbZIP83 promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis after drought stress was significantly higher than that under normal conditions. Based on the potential signalling pathways involved in AREB/ABFs, we also screened for the interaction protein FtSnRK2.6/2.3, which may phosphorylate FtbZIP83. Collectively, these results provide evidence that FtbZIP83, as a positive regulator, responds to drought/salt stress via an ABA-dependent signalling pathway composed of SnRK2-AREB/ABF.
Seed development is an essential and complex process, which is involved in seed size change and various nutrients accumulation, and determines crop yield and quality. Common buckwheat (
In the study, the trihelix family, also referred to as GT factors, is one of the transcription factor families. Trihelix genes play roles in the light response, seed maturation, leaf development, abiotic and biological stress and other biological activities. However, the trihelix family in tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), an important usable medicinal crop, has not yet been thoroughly studied. The genome of tartary buckwheat has recently been reported and provides a theoretical basis for our research on the characteristics and expression of trihelix genes in tartary buckwheat based at the whole level. In the present study, a total of 31 FtTH genes were identified based on the buckwheat genome. They were named from FtTH1 to FtTH31 and grouped into 5 groups (GT-1, GT-2, SH4, GTγ and SIP1). FtTH genes are not evenly distributed on the chromosomes, and we found segmental duplication events of FtTH genes on tartary buckwheat chromosomes. According to the results of gene and motif composition, FtTH located in the same group contained analogous intron/exon organizations and motif organizations. qRT-PCR showed that FtTH family members have multiple expression patterns in stems, roots, leaves, fruits, and flowers and during fruit development. Through our study, we identified 31 FtTH genes in tartary buckwheat and synthetically further analyzed the evolution and expression pattern of FtTH proteins. The structure and motif organizations of most genes are conserved in each subfamily, suggesting that they may be functionally conserved. The FtTH characteristics of the gene expression patterns indicate functional diversity in the time and space in the tartary buckwheat life process. Based on the discussion and analysis of FtTH gene function, we screened some genes closely related to the growth and development of tartary buckwheat. This will help us to further study the function of FtTH genes through experimental exploration in tartary buckwheat growth and improve the fruit of tartary buckwheat.
GRAS are plant-specific transcription factors that play important roles in plant growth and development. Although the GRAS gene family has been studied in many plants, there has been little research on the GRAS genes of Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), which is an important crop rich in rutin. The recently published whole genome sequence of Tartary buckwheat allows us to study the characteristics and expression patterns of the GRAS gene family in Tartary buckwheat at the genome-wide level. In this study, 47 GRAS genes of Tartary buckwheat were identified and divided into 10 subfamilies: LISCL, HAM, DELLA, SCR, PAT1, SCL4/7, LAS, SHR, SCL3, and DLT. FtGRAS genes were unevenly distributed on 8 chromosomes, and members of the same subfamily contained similar gene structures and motif compositions. Some FtGRAS genes may have been produced by gene duplications; tandem duplication contributed more to the expansion of the GRAS gene family in Tartary buckwheat. Real-time PCR showed that the transcription levels of FtGRAS were significantly different in different tissues and fruit development stages, implying that FtGRAS might have different functions. Furthermore, an increase in fruit weight was induced by exogenous paclobutrazol, and the transcription level of the DELLA subfamily member FtGRAS22 was significantly upregulated during the whole fruit development stage. Therefore, FtGRAS22 may be a potential target for molecular breeding or genetic editing. Collectively, this systematic analysis lays a foundation for further study of the functional characteristics of GRAS genes and for the improvement of Tartary buckwheat crops.
SPL (SQUAMOSA promoter binding protein-like) is a class of plant-specific transcription factors that play important roles in many growth and developmental processes, including shoot and inflorescence branching, embryonic development, signal transduction, leaf initiation, phase transition, and flower and fruit development. The SPL gene family has been identified and characterized in many species but has not been well studied in tartary buckwheat, which is an important edible and medicinal crop. In this study, 24 Fagopyrum tataricum SPL (FtSPL) genes were identified and renamed according to the chromosomal distribution of the FtSPL genes. According to the amino acid sequence of the SBP domain and gene structure, the SPL genes were divided into eight groups (group I to group VII) by phylogenetic tree analysis. A total of 10 motifs were detected in the tartary buckwheat SPL genes. The expression patterns of 23 SPL genes in different tissues and fruits at different developmental stages (green fruit stage, discoloration stage and initial maturity stage) were determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The tartary buckwheat genome contained 24 SPL genes, and most of the genes were expressed in different tissues. qRT-PCR showed that FtSPLs played important roles in the growth and development of tartary buckwheat, and genes that might regulate flower and fruit development were preliminarily identified. This work provides a comprehensive understanding of the SBP-box gene family in tartary buckwheat and lays a significant foundation for further studies on the functional characteristics of FtSPL genes and improvement of tartary buckwheat crops.
Because flavonoids and trichomes play crucial roles in plant defence, their formation requires fine transcriptional control by multiple transcription factor families. However, little is known regarding the mechanism of the R2R3-MYB transcription factors that regulate both flavonoid metabolism and trichome development. Here, we identified a unique SG4-like-MYB TF from Tartary buckwheat, FtMYB8, which harbours the C2 repression motif and an additional TLLLFR repression motif. The expression profiles of FtMYB8 combined with the transcriptional activity of P Taken together, our results suggest that FtMYB8 may fine-tune the accumulation of anthocyanin/proanthocyanidin in the roots and flowers of Tartary buckwheat by balancing the inductive effects of transcriptional activators, and probably regulate trichome distribution in the buds of Tartary buckwheat.
ZF-HD is a family of genes that play an important role in plant growth, development, some studies have found that after overexpression AtZHD1 in Arabidopsis thaliana, florescence advance, the seeds get bigger and the life span of seeds is prolonged, moreover, ZF-HD genes are also participate in responding to adversity stress. The whole genome of the ZF-HD gene family has been studied in several model plants, such as Arabidopsis thaliana and rice. However, there has been little research on the ZF-HD genes in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), which is an important edible and medicinal crop. The recently published whole genome sequence of Tartary buckwheat allows us to study the tissue and expression profiles of the ZF-HD gene family in Tartary buckwheat on a genome-wide basis. In this study, the whole genome and expression profile of the ZF-HD gene family were analyzed for the first time in Tartary buckwheat. We identified 20 FtZF-HD genes and divided them into MIF and ZHD subfamilies according to phylogeny. The ZHD genes were divided into 5 subfamilies. Twenty FtZF-HD genes were distributed on 7 chromosomes, and almost all the genes had no introns. We detected seven pairs of chromosomes with fragment repeats, but no tandem repeats were detected. In different tissues and at different fruit development stages, the FtZF-HD genes obtained by a real-time quantitative PCR analysis showed obvious expression patterns. In this study, 20 FtZF-HD genes were identified in Tartary buckwheat, and the structures, evolution and expression patterns of the proteins were studied. Our findings provide a valuable basis for further analysis of the biological function of the ZF-HD gene family. Our study also laid a foundation for the improvement of Tartary buckwheat crops.
In reported plants, the bZIP family is one of the largest transcription factor families. bZIP genes play roles in the light signal, seed maturation, flower development, cell elongation, seed accumulation protein, abiotic and biological stress and other biological processes. While, no detailed identification and genome-wide analysis of bZIP family genes in Fagopyum talaricum (tartary buckwheat) has previously been published. The recently reported genome sequence of tartary buckwheat provides theoretical basis for us to study and discuss the characteristics and expression of bZIP genes in tartary buckwheat based on the whole genome. In this study, 96 FtbZIP genes named from FtbZIP1 to FtbZIP96 were identified and divided into 11 subfamilies according to their genetic relationship with 70 bZIPs of A. thaliana. FtbZIP genes are not evenly distributed on the chromosomes, and we found tandem and segmental duplication events of FtbZIP genes on 8 tartary buckwheat chromosomes. According to the results of gene and motif composition, FtbZIP located in the same group contained analogous intron/exon organizations and motif composition. By qRT-PCR, we quantified the expression of FtbZIP members in stem, root, leaf, fruit, and flower and during fruit development. Exogenous ABA treatment increased the weight of tartary buckwheat fruit and changed the expressions of FtbZIP genes in group A. Through our study, we identified 96 FtbZIP genes in tartary buckwheat and synthetically further analyzed the structure composition, evolution analysis and expression pattern of FtbZIP proteins. The expression pattern indicates that FtbZIP is important in the course of plant growth and development of tartary buckwheat. Through comprehensively analyzing fruit weight and FtbZIP genes expression after ABA treatment and endogenous ABA content of tartary buckwheat fruit, ABA may regulate downstream gene expression by regulating the expression of FtPinG0003523300.01 and FtPinG0003196200.01, thus indirectly affecting the fruit development of tartary buckwheat. This will help us to further study the function of FtbZIP genes in the tartary buckwheat growth and improve the fruit of tartary buckwheat.
With the acceleration of aging process in human society, improvements of the physical functionality and life quality in the elderly population are more meaningful than pure longevity. Buckwheat trypsin inhibitor is a low molecular weight polypeptide extracted from buckwheat, which is a beneficial food for improving the health in the elderly. The aim of the current study was to evaluate the potential beneficial effects of recombinant buckwheat trypsin inhibitor (rBTI) on age-dependent function decline and the primary mechanism. Day 10 N2 Caenorhabditis elegans and day 6 AM140 C. elegans cultured at 25°C were used as models of aging and age-related disease, respectively. Motor function was as an indicator of age-dependent function. ATP content and damage mitochondrial DNA mass were detected to assess mitochondrial damage and function by ATP Assay Kit and agarose gel electrophoresis, respectively. Soluble protein content was quantified by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Autophagy-related genes transcription levels, autophagy marker proteins lgg-1, and lysosomal content were analyzed to quantify autophagy levels by qRT-PCR, transgenic C. elegans, and lysosomal staining. Autophagy inhibitor chloroquine, daf-16 mutant, and RNA Interference were used to determine the roles of autophagy and DAF-16 in rBTI-mediated effects. In this study, we found that rBTI could decrease the proportions of insoluble protein and impaired mitochondria, finally reduce motility deficits in both models. Further study indicated that rBTI activated the autophagy, and the inhibition of autophagy reduced rBTI-mediated beneficial effects. Genetic analyses showed the transcriptional activity of DAF-16 was increased by rBTI and was required for rBTI-mediated beneficial effects. These data indicated that rBTI might promote the autophagy to alleviate the age-related functional decline via DAF-16 in C. elegans and suggested a potential role of rBTI as a nutraceutical for the improvement of age-related complications.
Supplying exogenous sulfur-rich compounds increases the content of glutathione(GSH) and phytochelatins(PCs) in plant tissues, enabling plants to enhance their cellular defense capacity and/or compartmentalize Cadmium(Cd) into vacuoles. However, the mechanism by which surplus S modulates tolerance to Cd stress in different tissues need further investigation. In the present study, we found that supplementing the tartary buckwheat(Fagopyrum tararicum) exposed to Cd with surplus S reversed Cd induced adverse effects, and increased Cd concentrations in roots, but decreased in leaves. Further analysis revealed that exogenous S significantly mitigated Cd-induced oxidative stress with the aids of antioxidant enzymes and agents both in leaves and roots, including peroxidase(POD), ascorbate peroxidase(APX), glutathione peroxidase(GPX), glutathione S-transferase(GST), ascorbic acid(AsA), and GSH, but not superoxide dismutase(SOD) and catalase(CAT). The increased Cd uptake in root vacuoles and decreased translocation in leaves of exogenous S treated plants could be ascribed to the increasing Cd binding on cell walls, chelation and vacuolar sequestration with helps of non-protein thiols(NPT), PCs and heavy metal ATPase 3(FtHMA3) in roots, and inhibiting expression of FtHMA2, a transporter that helps Cd translocation from roots to shoots. Results provide the fundamental information for the application of exogenous S in reversal of heavy metal stress.
Common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) is a heteromorphic self-incompatible (SI) species with two types of floral architecture: thrum (short style) and pin (long style). The floral morphology and intra-morph incompatibility are controlled by a single genetic locus, S. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the heteromorphic self-incompatibility of common buckwheat remain unclear. To identify these mechanisms, we performed proteomic, quantitative reverse-transcription PCR, and linkage analyses. Comparison of protein profiles between the long and short styles revealed a protein unique to the short style. Amino-acid sequencing revealed that it was a truncated form of polygalacturonase (PG); we designated the gene encoding this protein FePG1. Phylogenetic analysis classified FePG1 into the same clade as PGs that function in pollen development and floral morphology. FePG1 expression was significantly higher in short styles than in long styles. It was expressed in flowers of a short-homostyle line but not in flowers of a long-homostyle line. Linkage analysis indicated that FePG1 was not linked to the S locus; it could be a factor downstream of this locus. Our finding of a gene putatively working under the regulation of the S locus provides useful information for elucidation of the mechanism of heteromorphic self-incompatibility.
Obesity is intimately related to a chronic inflammatory state, with augmentation of macrophage infiltration and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion in white adipose tissue (WAT) and mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal muscle. The specific aim of this study is to evaluate effects of tartary buckwheat extract (TB) on obesity-induced adipose tissue inflammation and muscle peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator (PGC)-1α/sirtulin 1 (SIRT1) pathway in rats fed a high-fat diet. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups and fed either a normal diet (NOR), 45% high-fat diet (HF), HF + low dose of TB (TB-L; 5 g/kg diet), or HF + high dose of TB (TB-H; 10 g/kg diet) for 13 weeks. TB significantly reduced adipose tissue mass with decreased adipogenic gene expression of PPAR-γ and aP2. Serum nitric oxide levels and adipose tissue macrophage M1 polarization gene markers, such as iNOS, CD11c, and Arg1, and pro-inflammatory gene expression, including TNF-α, IL-6, and MCP-1, were remarkably downregulated in the TB-L and TB-H groups. Moreover, TB supplementation increased gene expression of PGC-1α and SIRT1, involved in muscle biogenesis and function. These results suggested that TB might attenuate obesity-induced inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction by modulating adipose tissue inflammation and the muscle PGC-1α/SIRT1 pathway.
The WRKY gene family is an ancient plant transcription factor (TF) family with a vital role in plant growth and development, especially in response to biotic and abiotic stresses. Although many researchers have studied WRKY TFs in numerous plant species, little is known of them in Tartary buckwheat (
Quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction is a sensitive technique for quantifying gene expression levels. By implementing three distinct algorithms (geNorm, normFinder and BestKeeper), we have validated the stability of the expression of seven candidate reference genes in tartary buckwheat, including
AP2/ERF transcription factors perform indispensable functions in various biological processes, such as plant growth, development, biotic and abiotic stresses responses. The AP2/ERF transcription factor family has been identified in many plants, and several AP2/ERF transcription factors from Arabidopsis thaliana (A. thaliana) have been functionally characterized. However, little research has been conducted on the AP2/ERF genes of tartary buckwheat (Fagopyum tataricum), which is an important edible and medicinal crop. The recently published whole genome sequence of tartary buckwheat allowed us to study the tissue and expression profiles of AP2/ERF genes in tartary buckwheat on a genome-wide basis. In this study, 134 AP2/ERF genes of tartary buckwheat (FtAP2/ERF) were identified and renamed according to the chromosomal distribution of the FtAP2/ERF genes. According to the number conserved domains and gene structure, the AP2/ERF genes were divided into three subfamilies by phylogenetic tree analysis, namely, AP2 (15 members), ERF (116 members) and RAV (3 members). A total of 10 motifs were detected in tartary buckwheat AP2/ERF genes, and some of the unique motifs were found to be important for the function of AP2/ERF genes. A comprehensive analysis of AP2/ERF gene expression patterns in different tissues and fruit development stages by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) showed that they played an important role in the growth and development of tartary buckwheat, and genes that might regulate flower and fruit development were preliminarily identified. This systematic analysis establishes a foundation for further studies of the functional characteristics of FtAP2/ERF genes and improvement of tartary buckwheat crops.
The NAC (NAM, ATAF1/2, and CUC2) transcription factor family represents a group of large plant-specific transcriptional regulators, participating in plant development and response to external stress. However, there is no comprehensive study on the NAC genes of Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), a large group of extensively cultivated medicinal and edible plants. The recently published Tartary buckwheat genome permits us to explore all the FtNAC genes on a genome-wide basis. In the present study, 80 NAC (FtNAC) genes of Tartary buckwheat were obtained and named uniformly according to their distribution on chromosomes. Phylogenetic analysis of NAC proteins in both Tartary buckwheat and Arabidopsis showed that the FtNAC proteins are widely distributed in 15 subgroups with one subgroup unclassified. Gene structure analysis found that multitudinous FtNAC genes contained three exons, indicating that the structural diversity in Tartary buckwheat NAC genes is relatively low. Some duplication genes of FtNAC have a conserved structure that was different from others, indicating that these genes may have a variety of functions. By observing gene expression, we found that FtNAC genes showed abundant differences in expression levels in various tissues and at different stages of fruit development. In this research, 80 NAC genes were identified in Tartary buckwheat, and their phylogenetic relationships, gene structures, duplication, global expression and potential roles in Tartary buckwheat development were studied. Comprehensive analysis will be useful for a follow-up study of functional characteristics of FtNAC genes and for the development of high-quality Tartary buckwheat varieties.
Genome-wide identification, expression analysis and potential functional characterization of previously uncharacterized MADS family of tartary buckwheat, emphasized the importance of this gene family in plant growth and development. The MADS transcription factor is a key regulatory factor in the development of most plants. The MADS gene in plants controls all aspects of tissue and organ growth and reproduction and can be used to regulate plant seed cracking. However, there has been little research on the MADS genes of tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), which is an important edible and medicinal crop. The recently published whole genome sequence of tartary buckwheat allows us to study the tissue and expression profiles of the MADS gene in tartary buckwheat at a genome-wide level. In this study, 65 MADS genes of tartary buckwheat were identified and renamed according to the chromosomal distribution of the FtMADS genes. Here, we provide a complete overview of the gene structure, gene expression, genomic mapping, protein motif organization, and phylogenetic relationships of each member of the gene family. According to the phylogenetic relationship of MADS genes, the transcription factor family was divided into two subfamilies, the M subfamily (28 genes) and the MIKC subfamily (37 genes). The results showed that the FtMADS genes belonged to related sister pairs and the chromosomal map showed that the replication of FtMADSs was related to the replication of chromosome blocks. In different tissues and at different fruit development stages, the FtMADS genes obtained by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) showed obvious expression patterns. A comprehensive analysis of the MADS genes in tartary buckwheat was conducted. Through systematic analysis, the potential genes that may regulate the growth and development of tartary buckwheat and the genes that may regulate the easy dehulling of tartary buckwheat fruit were screened, which laid a solid foundation for improving the quality of tartary buckwheat.
Auxin signaling plays an important role in plant growth and development. It responds to various developmental and environmental events, such as embryogenesis, organogenesis, shoot elongation, tropical growth, lateral root formation, flower and fruit development, tissue and organ architecture, and vascular differentiation. However, there has been little research on the
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) not only provides a supplement to primary grain crops in China but also has high medicinal value, by virtue of its rich content of flavonoids possessing antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anticancer properties. Light is an important environmental factor that can regulate the synthesis of plant secondary metabolites. In this study, we treated tartary buckwheat seedlings with different wavelengths of light and found that red and blue light could increase the content of flavonoids and the expression of genes involved in flavonoid synthesis pathways. Through coexpression analysis, we identified a new MYB transcription factor (FtMYB116) that can be induced by red and blue light. Yeast one-hybrid assays and an electrophoretic mobility shift assay showed that FtMYB116 binds directly to the promoter region of flavonoid-3'-hydroxylase (F3'H), and a transient luciferase activity assay indicated that FtMYB116 can induce F3'H expression. After transforming FtMYB116 into the hairy roots of tartary buckwheat, we observed significant increases in the content of rutin and quercetin. Collectively, our results indicate that red and blue light promote an increase in flavonoid content in tartary buckwheat seedlings; we also identified a new MYB transcription factor, FtMYB116, that promotes the accumulation of rutin via direct activation of F3'H expression.
Anthocyanins are a group of flavonoids found in buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) and many other plant species; however; little is known about their mechanisms of synthesis and regulation in buckwheat. We previously reported a spontaneous mutant buckwheat line that shows the green stem phenotype; this line does not accumulate anthocyanins but synthesizes flavonol and proanthocyanidin in the stem. Here, we used this line and lines developed by this line to search for genes related to anthocyanin accumulation in buckwheat. The lines with green stem showed flavonoid-3-O-glucosyltransferase activity against UDP-glucose, indicating that the flavonoid-3-O-glucosyltransferase gene was not controlling the green stem trait. We therefore searched the buckwheat genome database for a gene encoding glutathione S-transferase (GST), a flavonoid-binding protein that transports flavonoids to the vacuole, and identified a candidate gene, FeGST1. Expression analysis showed that FeGST1 was expressed in wild type buckwheat but not in the green stem lines. Linkage analysis with an F
Abiotic stress causes various negative impacts on plants, such as water loss, reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and decreased photosynthesis. R2R3-MYB transcription factors (TFs) play crucial roles in the response of plants to abiotic stress. However, their functions in Tartary buckwheat, a strongly abiotic and resistant coarse cereal, haven't been fully investigated. In this paper, we report that a R2R3-MYB from Tartary buckwheat, FtMYB13, is not an activator of transcriptional activity but is located in the nucleus. Moreover, compared to the wild type (WT), transgenic Arabidopsis overexpressing FtMYB13 had a lower sensitivity to ABA and caused improved drought/salt tolerance, which was attributed to the higher proline content, greater photosynthetic efficiency, higher transcript abundance of some stress-related genes and the smaller amount of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA) in the transgenic lines compared to WT. Consequently, our work indicates that FtMYB13 is involved in mediating plant responses to ABA, as well as salt and drought.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) is a widely cultivated medicinal and edible crop with excellent economic and nutritional value. The development of tartary buckwheat seeds is a very complex process involving many expression-dependent physiological changes and regulation of a large number of genes and phytohormones. In recent years, the gene regulatory network governing the physiological changes occurring during seed development have received little attention. Here, we characterized the seed development of tartary buckwheat using light and electron microscopy and measured phytohormone and nutrient accumulation by using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and by profiling the expression of key genes using RNA sequencing with the support of the tartary buckwheat genome. We first divided the development of tartary buckwheat seed into five stages that include complex changes in development, morphology, physiology and phytohormone levels. At the same time, the contents of phytohormones (gibberellin, indole-3-acetic acid, abscisic acid, and zeatin) and nutrients (rutin, starch, total proteins and soluble sugars) at five stages were determined, and their accumulation patterns in the development of tartary buckwheat seeds were analyzed. Second, gene expression patterns of tartary buckwheat samples were compared during three seed developmental stages (13, 19, and 25 days postanthesis, DPA), and 9 765 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. We analyzed the overlapping DEGs in different sample combinations and measured 665 DEGs in the three samples. Furthermore, expression patterns of DEGs related to phytohormones, flavonoids, starch, and storage proteins were analyzed. Third, we noted the correlation between the trait (physiological changes, nutrient changes) and metabolites during seed development, and discussed the key genes that might be involved in the synthesis and degradation of each of them. We provided abundant genomic resources for tartary buckwheat and Polygonaceae communities and revealed novel molecular insights into the correlations between the physiological changes and seed development of tartary buckwheat.
Buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench) shows high tolerance to aluminum (Al) toxicity, but the molecular mechanisms underlying its high Al tolerance are poorly understood. Here, we functionally characterized two genes (FeSTAR1 and FeSTAR2), which encode a nucleotide-binding domain and a membrane domain, respectively, of a bacterial-type ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter. The expression of FeSTAR1 and FeSTAR2 was induced by Al in both roots and leaves with higher expression in the roots. Spatial and tissue-specific expression analysis showed that the Al-induced expression of these two genes was found in both the root tips and basal root regions with higher expression in the root outer cell layers. The expression was neither induced by other metals including Cd and La nor by low pH and phosphorus-deficiency. FeSTAR1 and FeSTAR2 were present in a single copy in the genome, but the Al-induced transcript copy number of FeSTAR1 and FeSTAR2 was much higher than their homologous genes in rice and Arabidopsis. FeSTAR1 and FeSTAR2 form a complex when co-expressed in onion epidermal cells. Introduction of FeSTAR1 and FeSTAR2 into Arabidopsis mutants atstar1 and als3/atstar2, respectively, rescued the sensitivity of the mutants to Al. Taken together, our results indicate that FeSTAR1 and FeSTAR2 are involved in Al tolerance and that their high expression level may contribute to high Al tolerance in buckwheat.
Buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) contains high amounts of flavonoids, especially flavonols (e.g., rutin), which are thought to be highly beneficial for human health. Little is known, however, about the regulation of flavonol synthesis in buckwheat. We identified a buckwheat gene encoding an R2R3 MYB transcription factor, and named this gene FeMYBF1. Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence and phylogenetic analysis suggested that FeMYBF1 encodes an ortholog of the Arabidopsis flavonol regulators AtMYB11, AtMYB12 and AtMYB111. Expression of FeMYBF1 in a flavonol-deficient Arabidopsis triple mutant (myb11 myb12 myb111) restored flavonol synthesis. Constitutive expression of FeMYBF1 driven by the CaMV 35S promoter in Arabidopsis resulted in over-accumulation of flavonol glycosides and upregulation of the expression of AtFLS1. Transient expression assays showed that FeMYBF1 activated the promoter of the Arabidopsis gene encoding AtFLS1, and the promoters of buckwheat genes related to anthocyanin and proanthocyanidin synthesis such as dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) and leucoanthocyanidin dioxygenase (LDOX) in addition to genes encoding FLS. The results indicate that FeMYBF1 regulates flavonol synthesis and may have a role in synthesis of other flavonoid compounds, and also that buckwheat may have alternative pathway of flavonol synthesis through DFR and LDOX.
There is a growing interest in buckwheat germination regarding the improvement of its health benefits. The aims of this study were to evaluate the effects of germination on polyphenol compounds, antioxidant activity, and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) gene expression in different tissues (cotyledon, hypocotyl, and radicle) of buckwheat sprouts during germination for 12 days, as well as to investigate their interactions. Total polyphenol and total flavonoid contents, antioxidant activity, main polyphenol components, and PAL gene expression significantly increased during germination. On day 12, the rutin content in cotyledons was elevated to 88.6 g kg Present results showed that polyphenol compounds mainly accumulated in cotyledons and hypocotyls. There was a negative correlation between polyphenol compounds and PAL gene expression. The discrepancy suggested that polyphenol compounds might experience transportation within buckwheat sprouts. The study could provide useful information for further application of buckwheat in functional foods, and revelation of the correlation between bioactive components and related gene expressions. © 2018 Society of Chemical Industry.
Common buckwheat (F. esculentum), annually herbaceous crop, is prevalent in people's daily life with the increasing development of economics. Compared with wheat, it is highly praised with high content of rutin and flavonoid. Common buckwheat is recognized as healthy food with good taste, and the product price of which such as noodles, flour, bread and so on are higher than wheat, and the seeds of which are bigger than that of tartary buckwheat, so if common buckwheat are planted more widely, people will spend less money on this healthy and delicious food. However, soil salinity has been a giant problem for agriculture production. The cultivation of salt tolerant crop varieties is an effective way to make full use of saline alkali land, and the highest salinity that the common buckwheat can sow is at 6.0%, so we chose 100 mM as the concentration of NaCl for treatment. Then we conducted transcriptome comparison between control and treatment groups. Potential regulatory genes related salt stress in common buckwheat were identified. A total of 29.36 million clean reads were produced via an illumina sequencing approach. We de novo assembled these reads into a transcriptome dataset containing 43,772 unigenes with N50 length of 1778 bp. A total of 26,672 unigenes could be found matches in public databases. GO, KEGG and Swiss-Prot classification suggested the enrichment of these unigenes in 47 sub-categories, 25 KOG and 129 pathways, respectively. We got 385 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) after comparing the transcriptome data between salt treatment and control groups. There are some genes encoded for responsing to stimulus, cell killing, metabolic process, signaling, multi-organism process, growth and cellular process might be relevant to salt stress in common buckwheat, which will provide a valuable references for the study on mechanism of salt tolerance and will be used as a genetic information for cultivating strong salt tolerant common buckwheat varieties in the future.
Tartary buckwheat Fagopyrum tataricum is an important medicinal and functional herb due to its rich content of flavonoids in the seeds. F.tataricum exhibited good functions for free radicals scavenging， anti-oxidation， anti-aging activities. Although much genetic knowledge of the synthesis， regulation， accumulation of rutin， the genetic basis of proanthocyanidins(PAs) in tartary buckwheat and their related gene expression changes under different lights(blue， red， far red， ultraviolet light) remain largely unexplored. In this study， we cloned one anthocyanidin reductase gene(ANR) and two leucocyanidin reductase gene(LAR) named FtANR，FtLAR1，FtLAR3 involved in formation of(+)-catechin and(-)-epicatechin precusor proanthocyanidin by digging out F. tataricum seed transcriptome data. The expression data showed that the opposite influence of red light on these gene transcript level compared to others lights. The expression levels of FtANR and FtLAR1 decreased and FtLAR3 appeared increment after exposed in the red light， while the expression levels of those genes appeared opposite result after exposed in the blue and far red light.
Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are known to play important roles in the innate host defense mechanisms of most living organisms. Protease inhibitors from plants potently inhibit the growth of a variety of pathogenic bacteria and fungi. Therefore, there are excellent candidates for the development of novel antimicrobial agents. In this study, an antimicrobial peptide derived from tartary buckwheat seeds (FtAMP) was obtained by gene cloning, expression and purification, which exhibited inhibitory activity toward trypsin. Furthermore, the relationship between the antimicrobial and inhibitory activities of FtAMP was investigated. Two mutants (FtAMP-R21A and FtAMP-R21F) were generated through site-directed mutagenesis. Inhibitory activity analysis showed that both FtAMP-R21A and FtAMP-R21F lost trypsin-inhibitory activity. However, FtAMP-R21A and FtAMP-R21F showed novel inhibitory activities against elastase and α-chymotrypsin, respectively, suggesting that Arg-21 in the inhibitory site loop is specific for the inhibitory activity of FtAMP against trypsin. Antimicrobial assays showed that all three peptides exhibited strong antifungal activity against Trichoderma koningii, Rhizopus sp., and Fusarium oxysporum. These results showed that the changes in FtAMP inhibitory site have no effect on their antifungal properties.
bHLH transcription factors play important roles in the abiotic stress response in plants, but their characteristics and functions in Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), a traditional coarse cereal with a strong stress tolerance, haven't been sufficiently studied. Here, we found that the expression of a bHLH gene, FtbHLH2, was induced significantly by cold treatments in Tartary buckwheat seedlings. Subcellular localization indicated that FtbHLH2 localized in nucleus. Its overexpression in Arabidopsis increased tolerance to cold. The Arabidopsis plants overexpressing FtbHLH2 displayed higher root length and photosynthetic efficiency, and had lower malondialdehyde (MDA) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) after cold treatment compared to wild type (WT) plants. Meanwhile, the expression levels of some stress-related genes in transgenic plants were remarkably higher than that in wild type under normal and/or stress conditions. Furthermore, transgenic Arabidopsis lines with the FtbHLH2 promoter had higher GUS activity after cold stress. On the whole, the results suggest that FtbHLH2 may play a positive regulatory in cold stress of Tartary buckwheat.
Jasmonates are plant hormones that induce the accumulation of many secondary metabolites, such as rutin in buckwheat, via regulation of jasmonate-responsive transcription factors. Here, we report on the identification of a clade of jasmonate-responsive subgroup 4 MYB transcription factors, FtMYB13, FtMYB14, FtMYB15, and FtMYB16, which directly repress rutin biosynthesis in Fagopyrum tataricum. Immunoblot analysis showed that FtMYB13, FtMYB14, and FtMYB15 could be degraded via the 26S proteasome in the COI1-dependent jasmonate signaling pathway, and that this degradation is due to the SID motif in their C-terminus. Yeast two-hybrid and bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays revealed that FtMYB13, FtMYB14, and FtMYB15 interact with the importin protein Sensitive to ABA and Drought 2 (FtSAD2) in stem and inflorescence. Furthermore, the key repressor of jasmonate signaling FtJAZ1 specifically interacts with FtMYB13. Point mutation analysis showed that the conserved Asp residue of the SID domain contributes to mediating protein-protein interaction. Protoplast transient activation assays demonstrated that FtMYB13, FtMYB14, and FtMYB15 directly repress phenylalanine ammonia lyase (FtPAL) gene expression, and FtSAD2 and FtJAZ1 significantly promote the repressing activity of FtMYBs. These findings may ultimately be promising for further engineering of plant secondary metabolism.
Buckwheat is an important minor crop with pharmaceutical functions due to rutin enrichment in the seed. Seeds of common buckwheat cultivars (Fagopyrum esculentum, Fes) usually have much lower rutin content than tartary buckwheat (F. tartaricum, Ft). We previously found a wild species of common buckwheat (F. esculentum ssp. ancestrale, Fea), with seeds that are high in rutin, similar to Ft. In the present study, we investigated the mechanism by which rutin production varies among different buckwheat cultivars, Fea, a Ft variety (Xide) and a Fes variety (No.2 Pingqiao) using RNA sequencing of filling stage seeds. Sequencing data generated approximately 43.78-Gb of clean bases, all these data were pooled together and assembled 180,568 transcripts, and 109,952 unigenes. We established seed gene expression profiles of each buckwheat sample and assessed genes involved in flavonoid biosynthesis, storage proteins production, CYP450 family, starch and sucrose metabolism, and transcription factors. Differentially expressed genes between Fea and Fes were further analyzed due to their close relationship than with Ft. Expression levels of flavonoid biosynthesis gene FLS1 (Flavonol synthase 1) were similar in Fea and Ft, and much higher than in Fes, which was validated by qRT-PCR. This suggests that FLS1 transcript levels may be associated with rutin accumulation in filling stage seeds of buckwheat species. Further, we explored transcription factors by iTAK, and multiple gene families were identified as being involved in the coordinate regulation of metabolism and development. Our extensive transcriptomic data sets provide a complete description of metabolically related genes that are differentially expressed in filling stage buckwheat seeds and suggests that FLS1 is a key controller of rutin synthesis in buckwheat species. FLS1 can effectively convert dihydroflavonoids into flavonol products. These findings provide a basis for further studies of flavonoid biosynthesis in buckwheat breeding to help accelerate flavonoid metabolic engineering that would increase rutin content in cultivars of common buckwheat.
Buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) shows high tolerance to aluminum (Al) toxicity, but the molecular mechanisms responsible for this high Al tolerance are still poorly understood. Here, we investigated the involvement of two MATE (multi-drug and toxic compound extrusion) genes in Al tolerance. Both FeMATE1 and FeMATE2 showed efflux transport activity for citrate, but not for oxalate when expressed in Xenopus oocytes. A transient assay with buckwheat leaf protoplasts using green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion showed that FeMATE1 was mainly localized to the plasma membrane, whereas FeMATE2 was localized to the trans-Golgi and Golgi. The expression of FeMATE1 was induced by Al only in the roots, but that of FeMATE2 was up-regulated in both the roots and leaves. Furthermore, the expression of both genes only responded to Al toxicity, but not to other stresses including low pH, cadmium (Cd) and lanthanum (La). Heterologous expression of FeMATE1 or FeMATE2 in the Arabidopsis mutant atmate partially rescued its Al tolerance. Expression of FeMATE1 also partially recovered the Al-induced secretion of citrate in the transgenic lines, whereas expression of FeMATE2 did not complement the citrate secretion. Further physiological analysis showed that buckwheat roots also secreted citrate in addition to oxalate in response to Al in a dose-responsive manner. Taken together, our results indicate that FeMATE1 is involved in the Al-activated citrate secretion in the roots, while FeMATE2 is probably responsible for transporting citrate into the Golgi system for the internal detoxification of Al in the roots and leaves of buckwheat.
Buckwheat sprouts have been widely consumed all around world due to their great abundance of bioactive compounds. In this study, the anti-inflammatory effects of flavonoid-rich common buckwheat sprout (CBS) and tartary buckwheat sprout (TBS) extracts were evaluated in lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) stimulated RAW 264.7 murine macrophages and primary peritoneal macrophages from male BALB/c mice. Based on the reversed-phase HPLC analysis, the major flavonoids in CBS were determined to be
Tartary buckwheat seeds are rich in various nutrients, such as storage proteins, starch, and flavonoids. To get a good knowledge of the transcriptome dynamics and gene regulatory mechanism during the process of seed development and nutrients accumulation, we performed a comprehensive global transcriptome analysis using rice tartary buckwheat seeds at different development stages, namely pre-filling stage, filling stage, and mature stage. 24 819 expressed genes, including 108 specifically expressed genes, and 11 676 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. qRT-PCR analysis was performed on 34 DEGs to validate the transcriptome data, and a good consistence was obtained. Based on their expression patterns, the identified DEGs were classified to eight clusters, and the enriched GO items in each cluster were analyzed. In addition, 633 DEGs related to plant hormones were identified. Furthermore, genes in the biosynthesis pathway of nutrients accumulation were analyzed, including 10, 20, and 23 DEGs corresponding to the biosynthesis of seed storage proteins, flavonoids, and starch, respectively. This is the first transcriptome analysis during seed development of tartary buckwheat. It would provide us a comprehensive understanding of the complex transcriptome dynamics during seed development and gene regulatory mechanism of nutrients accumulation.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is an important pseudocereal crop that is strongly adapted to growth in adverse environments. Its gluten-free grain contains complete proteins with a well-balanced composition of essential amino acids and is a rich source of beneficial phytochemicals that provide significant health benefits. Here, we report a high-quality, chromosome-scale Tartary buckwheat genome sequence of 489.3 Mb that is assembled by combining whole-genome shotgun sequencing of both Illumina short reads and single-molecule real-time long reads, sequence tags of a large DNA insert fosmid library, Hi-C sequencing data, and BioNano genome maps. We annotated 33 366 high-confidence protein-coding genes based on expression evidence. Comparisons of the intra-genome with the sugar beet genome revealed an independent whole-genome duplication that occurred in the buckwheat lineage after they diverged from the common ancestor, which was not shared with rosids or asterids. The reference genome facilitated the identification of many new genes predicted to be involved in rutin biosynthesis and regulation, aluminum stress resistance, and in drought and cold stress responses. Our data suggest that Tartary buckwheat's ability to tolerate high levels of abiotic stress is attributed to the expansion of several gene families involved in signal transduction, gene regulation, and membrane transport. The availability of these genomic resources will facilitate the discovery of agronomically and nutritionally important genes and genetic improvement of Tartary buckwheat.
Being an Al-accumulating crop, buckwheat detoxifies and tolerates Al not only in roots but also in leaves. While much progress has recently been made toward Al toxicity and resistance mechanisms in roots, little is known about the molecular basis responsible for detoxification and tolerance processes in leaves. Here, we carried out transcriptome analysis of buckwheat leaves in response to Al stress (20 µM, 24 h). We obtained 33,931 unigenes with 26,300 unigenes annotated in the NCBI database, and identified 1063 upregulated and 944 downregulated genes under Al stress. Functional category analysis revealed that genes related to protein translation, processing, degradation and metabolism comprised the biological processes most affected by Al, suggesting that buckwheat leaves maintain flexibility under Al stress by rapidly reprogramming their physiology and metabolism. Analysis of genes related to transcription regulation revealed that a large proportion of chromatin-regulation genes are specifically downregulated by Al stress, whereas transcription factor genes are overwhelmingly upregulated. Furthermore, we identified 78 upregulated and 22 downregulated genes that encode transporters. Intriguingly, only a few genes were overlapped with root Al-regulated transporter genes, which include homologs of
Little is known about the molecular mechanism of the R2R3-MYB transcriptional repressors involved in plant phenylpropanoid metabolism. Here, we describe one R2R3-type MYB repressor, FtMYB11 from Fagopyrum tataricum. It contains the SID-like motif GGDFNFDL and it is regulated by both the importin protein 'Sensitive to ABA and Drought 2' (SAD2) and the jasmonates signalling cascade repressor JAZ protein. Yeast two hybrid and bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays demonstrated that FtMYB11 interacts with SAD2 and FtJAZ1. Protoplast transactivation assays demonstrated that FtMYB11 acts synergistically with FtSAD2 or FtJAZ1 and directly represses its target genes via the MYB-core element AATAGTT. Changing the Asp122 residue to Asn in the SID-like motif results in cytoplasmic localization of FtMYB11 because of loss of interaction with SAD2, while changing the Asp126 residue to Asn results in the loss of interaction with FtJAZ1. Overexpression of FtMYB11or FtMYB11
Relying on Al-activated root oxalate secretion, and internal detoxification and accumulation of Al, buckwheat is highly Al resistant. However, the molecular mechanisms responsible for these processes are still poorly understood. It is well-known that root apex is the critical region of Al toxicity that rapidly impairs a series of events, thus, resulting in inhibition of root elongation. Here, we carried out transcriptome analysis of the buckwheat root apex (0-1 cm) with regards to early response (first 6 h) to Al stress (20 μM), which is crucial for identification of both genes and processes involved in Al toxicity and tolerance mechanisms. We obtained 34,469 unigenes with 26,664 unigenes annotated in the NCBI database, and identified 589 up-regulated and 255 down-regulated differentially expressed genes (DEGs) under Al stress. Functional category analysis revealed that biological processes differ between up- and down-regulated genes, although 'metabolic processes' were the most affected category in both up- and down-regulated DEGs. Based on the data, it is proposed that Al stress affects a variety of biological processes that collectively contributes to the inhibition of root elongation. We identified 30 transporter genes and 27 transcription factor (TF) genes induced by Al. Gene homology analysis highlighted candidate genes encoding transporters associated with Al uptake, transport, detoxification, and accumulation. We also found that TFs play critical role in transcriptional regulation of Al resistance genes in buckwheat. In addition, gene duplication events are very common in the buckwheat genome, suggesting a possible role for gene duplication in the species' high Al resistance. Taken together, the transcriptomic analysis of buckwheat root apex shed light on the processes that contribute to the inhibition of root elongation. Furthermore, the comprehensive analysis of both transporter genes and TF genes not only deep our understanding on the responses of buckwheat roots to Al toxicity but provide a good start for functional characterization of genes critical for Al tolerance.
Buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench) is able to detoxify high aluminium (Al) internally by sequestering it to the vacuoles in the leaves; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying this sequestration are unknown. We performed proteomic analysis with the leaf tonoplast-rich fraction and identified two half-size ABC transporters; FeASL1.1 and FeALS1.2. We investigated the gene expression patterns and subcellular localization. To demonstrate their physiological role, we expressed FeALS1.1 or FeALS1.2 in the Arabidopsis atals1 mutant under the control of AtALS1 promoter. FeALS1.1 expression was upregulated by Al in both the leaves and the roots, and its expression level in the roots was six times higher than its homologous gene (AtALS1) of Arabidopsis. FeALS1.2 expression, however, was not affected by Al but showed a 39 times higher expression level than AtALS1 in the leaves. When FeALS1.1 or FeALS1.2 was expressed in atals1, both of them recovered their Al tolerance through altering the subcellular localization of Al in root cells. Taken together, our results indicate that FeALS1.1 and FeALS1.2 are involved in the internal detoxification of Al in the roots and leaves, respectively, by sequestering Al into the vacuoles. Their high expression is probably required for high Al tolerance in buckwheat.
bHLH (basic helix-loop-helix) transcription factors play important roles in the abiotic stress response in plants, but their characteristics and functions in tartary buckwheat (
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) is a traditional coarse cereal that exhibits strong plasticity in its adaptation to harsh and complicated environmental stresses. In an attempt to study the strong tolerance of tartary buckwheat, the FtMYB9 gene, which encodes an R2R3-MYB transcription factor protein, was functionally investigated. FtMYB9 expression was rapidly and strongly induced by ABA, cold, salt, and drought treatments in the seedling stage. A yeast one-hybrid system assay indicated that FtMYB9 is an activator of transcriptional activity, consistent with its roles as a transcription factor. Its overexpression in plants resulted in increased sensitivity to ABA at the germination and seedling stages compared to wild type. The overexpression of FtMYB9 increased tolerance to drought and salt stresses by the activation of some stress-related genes from both ABA-independent and ABA-dependent pathways in transgenic Arabidopsis. Furthermore, enhanced proline content and the activation of the P5CS1 gene implied that FtMYB9 may be involved in proline synthesis in plants. Collectively, these results suggest that FtMYB9 functions as a novel R2R3-MYB TF which plays positive roles in salt and drought tolerance by regulating different stress-responsive signaling pathways.
Although various treatments have been used for weight loss to date, obese people rarely have safe and effective treatment options. Therefore, the antiobesity effects of several natural compounds are being actively investigated. This study was conducted to investigate the antiadipogenic effects of Monascus ruber-fermented Fagopyrum esculentum (red yeast buckwheat, RYB) in 3T3-L1 cells. We assessed the intracellular lipid content and adipocyte differentiation by oil red O staining and the expression of genes and proteins associated with adipocyte differentiation by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blotting in 3T3-L1 cells. RYB dose dependently inhibited 3T3-L1 cell differentiation at concentrations of 50-800 μg/mL, without cytotoxic effects. It also suppressed the expression of adipogenic transcription factors, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α, and adipocyte-specific genes, such as adipocyte fatty acid-binding protein (aP2), fatty acid synthase, and leptin, during preadipocyte differentiation into adipocytes. Furthermore, RYB reduced cyclin-dependent kinase 2 and cyclin expression and increased p21 and p27 expression, thus causing cell cycle arrest at the G1/S phase. Collectively, these results suggest that RYB may be an effective nutraceutical for weight loss as indicated by its ability to suppress adipogenesis-specific gene expression and cause cell cycle arrest at the G1/S interphase.
Previous research has shown that Tartary buckwheat flour is capable of reducing plasma cholesterol. The present study was to examine the effect of rutin and Tartary buckwheat protein on plasma total cholesterol (TC) in hypercholesterolemia hamsters. In the first animal experiment, 40 male hamsters were divided into four groups fed either the control diet or one of the three experimental diets containing 8.2 mmol rutin, 8.2 mmol quercetin, or 2.5 g kg
Black tartary buckwheat is recognized as 'black pearl' because of containg more rutin and other flavonoids as compared to yellow tartary buckwheat (traditional tartary buckwheat). Here, we show a genome-wide comparison of their transcriptomes by using an RNA-seq approach to elucidate the different molecular metabolism on the flowers from Black tartary buckwheat (HEIFENG No1) and yellow tartary buckwheat (XIQIAO No2). Over 48.4 million paired-end reads were assembled into 57,800 unigenes, of which about 57.9% (33, 472 unigenes) were annotated by BLAST searches in the NCBI non-redundant protein database. RPKM analysis showed that compared to YTB, the unigenes encoding phenylalanine ammonialyase (PAL), chalcone synthase (CHS) and chalcone isomerase (CHI) for early flavonoid synthesis and the unigene encoding quercetin 3-O-glucosyltransferase (UF3GT) for synthetizing rutin were at a higher level, but the unigene encoding Flavonol synthase (FLS) charging for kaempferol and quercetin synthesis at a lower level in BTB, which may be the reason for the higher content of rutin and the lower content of quercetin, the result obtained by HPLC, as confirmed by qRT-PCR analysis of these genes. The result will not only explain the molecular mechanism of flavonoid synthesis in balck tartary buckwheat, but also provide the basis for further genomics research on this species or its allies.
Tartary buckwheat is a strongly abiotic, resistant coarse cereal, but its tolerance mechanisms for stress are largely unknown. MYB transcription factors play key roles in various physiological, biochemical and molecular responses, which can both positively and negatively regulate the stress tolerance of plants. In this study, we report that the expression of FtMYB10, a R2R3-MYB gene from Tartary buckwheat, was induced significantly by ABA and drought treatments. A seed germination test under ABA treatment indicated that transgenic lines were less sensitive to ABA. The overexpression of FtMYB10 in Arabidopsis reduced drought and salt tolerance. Further studies showed that the proline contents in the transgenic plants are markedly decreased associated with reduced expression of the P5CS1 gene under both normal and stress conditions. Furthermore, the expression of some stress-responsive genes, including DREB1/CBFs, RD29B, RD22, and several genes of the DRE/CRT class, decreased in response to FtMYB10 overexpression in Arabidopsis. These results suggest that FtMYB10 may play a key role in ABA signaling feedback regulation and act as a novel negative regulator of salt and drought stress tolerance in plants.
Proanthocyanidins (PAs) are a major group of flavonoids synthesized via the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway, however the pathway has not been fully characterized in buckwheat. Anthocyanidin reductase (ANR) and leucoanthocyanidin reductase (LAR) are involved in the last steps of PA biosynthesis. To isolate the genes for these enzymes from buckwheat we performed PCR using degenerate primers and obtained cDNAs of ANR and LAR, which we designated FeANR and FeLAR1. A search for homologs in a buckwheat genome database with both sequences returned two more LAR sequences, designated FeLAR2 and FeLAR3. Linkage analysis with an F
Anthocyanins confer the red color in the hypocotyl of tartary buckwheat sprouts. Uridine diphosphate (UDP)-glucose:flavonoid 3-O-glycosyltransferase (UFGT) stabilizes anthocyanin by attaching the glucosyl moiety from UDP-glucose to the C3 hydroxyl of anthocyanin. In this study, we characterized three UFGT-like genes, designated FtUFGT1, 2, and 3 from tartary buckwheat. The results revealed that FtUFGT1, FtUFGT2, and FtUFGT3 can convert cyanidin to cyanidin 3-O-glucoside, with specific activities of 20.01 × 10(-3), 8.93 × 10(-3), and 20.24 × 10(-3) IU/mg, respectively. The active-site residues of the C-terminal domains and the N-terminal domains are important for the donor and acceptor recognition of these proteins. The expression of the three FtUFGTs paralleled the tissue-specific anthocyanin accumulation. After cold treatment, the increased content of anthocyanin was accompanied by the up-regulated expression of the three FtUFGTs. Among these three UGFT gene members, FtUFGT3 showed the highest expression level and the highest specific activity, suggesting that FtUFGT3 might be the major gene involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis. These results suggested that the FtUFGT genes, FtUFGT3 in particular, might be important candidates for anthocyanin formation in tartary buckwheat sprouts.
Fagopyrum homotropicum Ohnishi is a very polymorphic self-pollinating species with homostylous flowers, which morphologically different lineages are differ also in ability to hybridize with F. esculentum Moench. (closely related outcrosser with heterostyly). A lineage C2026 F. homotropicum diverged from F. esculentum with forming noticeable pre-zygotic and post-zygotic barriers: the most successful interspecific crossing F esculentum x C2026 resulted wrinkled hybrid seeds germinated in Petri dishes. These interspecific hybrids and backcrosses F. esculentum x F₁, being heterozygous at loci DET/det, SHT/sht and homostyly gene of F. homotropicum, in our experiments often formed phenotype like a recessive homozygote for at least one of these genes, i.e. dominant alleles were silenced. Apparently, these effects can be caused by disorders of epigenetic regulation associated with the divergence of hybridized species. Such disorders, especially those that occur at the stage of seed development, represent one of the main experimentally confirmed mechanisms of pre-zygotic isolation between species. Apparently, F. esculentum and the lineage C2026 of F. homotropicum represent an example of intermediate stage of post-zygotic isolation development process which based on epigenetic deregulation of gene expression in the hybrids. Sometimes it may be revealed not only at the stage of seed development, but also at later stages of ontogenesis.
Buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench) is able to detoxify aluminum (Al) both externally and internally, but the molecular mechanisms underlying its high Al tolerance are not understood. We functionally characterized a gene (FeIREG1) belonging to IRON REGULATED/ferroportin in buckwheat, which showed high expression in our previous genome-wide transcriptome analysis. FeIREG1 was mainly expressed in the roots, and its expression was up-regulated by Al, but not by other metals and low pH. Furthermore, in contrast to AtIREG1 and AtIREG2 in Arabidopsis, the expression of FeIREG1 was not induced by Fe deficiency. Spatial expression analysis showed that the Al-induced expression of FeIREG1 was found in the root tips and higher expression was detected in the outer layers of this part. Immunostaining also showed that FeIREG1 was localized at the outer cell layers in the root tip. A FeIREG1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein was localized to the tonoplast when transiently expressed in onion epidermal cells. Overexpression of FeIREG1 in Arabidopsis resulted in increased Al tolerance, but did not alter the tolerance to Cd, Co and Fe. The tolerance to Ni was slightly enhanced in the overexpression lines. Mineral analysis showed that the accumulation of total root Al and other essential mineral elements was hardly altered in the overexpression lines. Taken together, our results suggest that FeIREG1 localized at the tonoplast plays an important role in internal Al detoxification by sequestering Al into the root vacuoles in buckwheat.
Eight R2R3 - MYB genes in tartary buckwheat were identified, and their expression patterns were comprehensively analyzed, which reveals role in plant response to abiotic stresses. The proteins of the R2R3-MYB superfamily play key roles in the growth and development processes as well as defense responses in plants. However, their characteristics and functions have not been fully investigated in tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum), a strongly abiotic resistant coarse cereal. In this article, eight tartary buckwheat R2R3-MYB genes were isolated with full-length cDNA and DNA sequences. Phylogenetic analysis of the members of the R2R3-MYB superfamily between Arabidopsis and tartary buckwheat revealed that the assumed functions of the eight tartary buckwheat R2R3-MYB proteins are divided into five Arabidopsis functional subgroups that are involved in abiotic stress. Expression analysis during abiotic stress and exogenous phytohormone treatments identified that the eight R2R3-MYB genes responded to one or more treatments. This study is the first comprehensive analysis of the R2R3-MYB gene family in tartary buckwheat under abiotic stress.
The anti-obesity effect of Korean traditional food, Memilmuk, was examined through inhibition of differentiation of 3T3-L1 preadipocytes by buckwheat flour extract. Oil-Red O staining showed that lipid accumulation in adipocytes was reduced upon adding buckwheat flour extract, indicating effective inhibition of adipocyte differentiation. Buckwheat flour extract also inhibited the expression of adipogenic transcription factor, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), an intracellular regulator of energy balance. Overall, the anti-obesity effect of Korean Memilmuk might be mediated through down-regulation of PPARγ expression via AMPK activation by buckwheat flour.
Transformed hairy roots had been efficiently induced from the seedlings of Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn. due to the infection of Agrobacterium rhizogenes. Hairy roots were able to display active elongation with high root branching in 1/2 MS medium without growth regulators. The stable introduction of rolB and aux1 genes of A. rhizogenes WT strain 15834 into F. tataricum plants was confirmed by PCR analysis. Besides, the absence of virD gene confirmed hairy root was bacteria-free. After six different media and different sources of concentration were tested, the culturing of TB7 hairy root line in 1/2 MS liquid medium supplemented with 30 g l(-1) sucrose for 20 days resulted in a maximal biomass accumulation (13.5 g l(-1) fresh weight, 1.78 g l(-1) dry weight) and rutin content (0.85 mg g(-1)). The suspension culture of hairy roots led to a 45-fold biomass increase and a 4.11-fold rutin content increase in comparison with the suspension culture of non-transformed roots. The transformation frequency was enhanced through preculturing for 2 days followed by infection for 20 min. The UV-B stress treatment of hairy roots resulted in a striking increase of rutin and quercetin production. Furthermore, the hairy root lines of TB3, TB7, and TB28 were chosen to study the specific effects of UV-B on flavonoid accumulation and flavonoid biosynthetic gene expression by qRT-PCR. This study has demonstrated that the UV-B radiation was an effective elicitor that dramatically changed in the transcript abundance of ftpAL, FtCHI, FtCHS, FtF3H, and FtFLS-1 in F. tataricum hairy roots.
Bacillus cereus is a gram-positive, rod-shaped, spore-forming bacterium that has been isolated from contaminated fermented soybean food products and from the environment. B. cereus produces diarrheal and emetic toxins and has caused many outbreaks of foodborne diseases. In this study, we investigated whether B. amyloliquefaciens RD7-7, isolated from rice doenjang (Korean fermented soybean paste), a traditional Korean fermented soybean food, shows antimicrobial activity against B. cereus and regulates its toxin gene expression. B. amyloliquefaciens RD7-7 exhibited strong antibacterial activity against B. cereus and inhibited the expression of B. cereus toxin-related genes (groEL, nheA, nheC, and entFM). We also found that addition of water extracts of soybean and buckwheat soksungjang (Korean fermented soybean paste made in a short time) fermented with B. amyloliquefaciens RD7-7 significantly reduced the growth and toxin expression of B. cereus. These results indicate that B. amyloliquefaciens RD7-7 could be used to control B. cereus growth and toxin production in the fermented soybean food industry. Our findings also provide a basis for the development of candidate biological control agents against B. cereus to improve the safety of fermented soybean food products.
C-repeat-binding factor (CBF)/dehydration-responsive element (DREB) transcription factors play key roles in plant stress responses. However, little information is available on the regulation of CBF/DREB expression. In this study, we isolated and characterized the FeDREB1 promoter sequence from the common buckwheat accession Xinong 9976. To identify the upstream region of the FeDREB1 gene required for promoter activity, we constructed a series of FeDREB1 promoter deletion derivatives. Each deletion construct was analyzed through Agrobacterium-mediated transient transformation in tobacco leaves treated with 4°C cold or drought stress. Promoter-beta-glucuronidase fusion assays revealed that the pCD1 (-270 bp) deletion in the upstream region of FeDREB1 could activate expression of the GUS gene at 4°C. The pCD1 (-270 bp), pCD2 (-530 bp), and pCD3 (-904 bp) deletion induced low-level GUS expression under drought stress. However, the pCD4 (-1278 bp) deletion clearly activated GUS gene expression. Our results suggest that sections pCD1 (-270 bp) and pCD4 (-1278 bp) in the FeDREB1 gene promoter are new sources of induced promoters for adversity-resistance breeding in plant genetic engineering.
Fagopyrum tataricum (L.) Gaertn is a famous drinking food and herbal medicine in China, and have been commonly used for treating various diseases. This study was designed to investigate the antitumor effect of tatariside F (TF) isolated from the roots of F. tataricum against H22 hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in vitro and in vivo and explore the possible mechanisms. In our present study, the anti-proliferative effect of TF against H22 cells was evaluated by MTT method. Furthermore, a mice xenograft model was established to investigate the antitumor effect of TF on HCC in vivo, and the possible mechanisms were determined by western blot and fluorescence polarization binding assay. In addition, the protective effect of TF on liver was also investigated by examining the histopathological changes and determining the liver biochemical parameters. Our results demonstrated that TF possessed notable antitumor effect against HCC both in vivo and in vitro, and the possible mechanism might be related to up-regulation of the protein expressions of Bax and p53, and down-regulation of Bcl-2. What's more, TF also exhibited protective effects against CTX (cyclophosphamide)-induced liver damages when co-administrated with CTX. Our study suggested that TF possess notable antitumor effects against HCC and might play a favorable role in drug combination therapy against tumors with protective effect on liver.
Methyl jasmonate has a strong effect on secondary metabolizm in plants, by stimulating the biosynthesis a number of phenolic compounds and alkaloids. Common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench) is an important source of biologically active compounds. This research focuses on the detection and quantification of 2-phenylethylamine and its possible metabolites in the cotyledons, hypocotyl and roots of common buckwheat seedlings treated with methyl jasmonate. In cotyledons of buckwheat sprouts, only traces of 2-phenylethylamine were found, while in the hypocotyl and roots its concentration was about 150 and 1000-times higher, respectively. Treatment with methyl jasmonate resulted in a 4-fold increase of the 2-phenylethylamine level in the cotyledons of 7-day buckwheat seedlings, and an 11-fold and 5-fold increase in hypocotyl and roots, respectively. Methyl jasmonate treatment led also to about 4-fold increase of phenylacetic acid content in all examined seedling organs, but did not affect the 2-phenylethanol level in cotyledons, and slightly enhanced in hypocotyl and roots. It has been suggested that 2-phenylethylamine is a substrate for the biosynthesis of phenylacetic acid and 2-phenylethanol, as well as cinnamoyl 2-phenethylamide. In organs of buckwheat seedling treated with methyl jasmonate, higher amounts of aromatic amino acid transaminase mRNA were found. The enzyme can be involved in the synthesis of phenylpyruvic acid, but the presence of this compound could not be confirmed in any of the examined organs of common buckwheat seedling.
The present study aimed to investigate the effects of different l-phenylalanine (l-Phe) concentrations and various light-emitting diodes (LEDs) on the accumulation of phenolic compounds (chlorogenic acid, vitexin, rutin, quercetin, cyanidin 3-O-glucoside, and cyanidin 3-O-rutinoside) in Tartary buckwheat sprouts. We found that 5mM was the optimum l-Phe concentration for the synthesis of total and individual phenolic compounds. The highest rutin (53.09 mg/g DW) and chlorogenic acid (5.62 mg/g DW) content was observed with Red+Blue and white lights. Comprehensive differences in total and individual anthocyanin content were observed between different lights; however, the total anthocyanin content (9.12 mg/g DW) was 1.5-fold higher in blue light. The expression levels of regulatory genes, such as FtDFR and FtANS, were 7.1-fold higher with l-Phe treatment. Gene expression results showed that the phenolic compounds in Tartary buckwheat sprouts increased with the use of l-Phe and LED lights.
Similar to common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum), tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) shows a high level of aluminum (Al) tolerance and accumulation. However, the molecular mechanisms for Al detoxification and accumulation are still poorly understood. To begin to elucidate the molecular basis of Al tolerance and accumulation, we used the Illumina high-throughput mRNA sequencing (RNA-seq) technology to conduct a genome-wide transcriptome analysis on both tip and basal segments of the roots exposed to Al. By using the Trinity method for the de novo assembly and cap3 software to reduce the redundancy and chimeras of the transcripts, we constructed 39,815 transcripts with an average length of 1184 bp, among which 20,605 transcripts were annotated by BLAST searches in the NCBI non-redundant protein database. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis showed that expression of genes involved in the defense of cell wall toxicity and oxidative stress was preferentially induced by Al stress. Our RNA-seq data also revealed that organic acid metabolism was unlikely to be a rate-limiting step for the Al-induced secretion of organic acids in buckwheat. We identified two citrate transporter genes that were highly induced by Al and potentially involved in the release of citrate into the xylem. In addition, three of four conserved Al-tolerance genes were found to be duplicated in tartary buckwheat and display diverse expression patterns. Nearly 40,000 high quality transcript contigs were de novo assembled for tartary buckwheat, providing a reference platform for future research work in this plant species. Our differential expression and phylogenetic analysis revealed novel aspects of Al-tolerant mechanisms in buckwheat.
Buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench) is a species with high aluminum (Al) tolerance and accumulation. Although the physiological mechanisms for external and internal detoxification of Al have been well studied, the molecular mechanisms responsible are poorly understood. Here, we conducted a genome-wide transcriptome analysis of Al-responsive genes in the roots and leaves using RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) technology. RNA-Seq generated reads ranging from 56×10(6) to 93×10(6). A total of 148,734 transcript contigs with an average length of 1,014 bp were assembled, generating 84,516 unigenes. Among them, 31,730 and 23,853 unigenes were annotated, respectively, in the NCBI plant database and TAIR database for Arabidopsis. Of the annotated genes, 4,067 genes in the roots and 2,663 genes in the leaves were up-regulated (>2-fold) by Al exposure, while 2,456 genes in the roots and 2,426 genes in the leaves were down-regulated (<2-fold) A few STOP1/ART1 (SENSITIVE TO PROTON RHIZOTOXICITY1/AL RESISTANCE TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR1)-regulated gene homologs including FeSTAR1, FeALS3 (ALUMINUM SENSITIVE3), FeALS1 (ALUMINUM SENSITIVE1), FeMATE1 and FeMATE2 (MULTIDRUG AND TOXIC COMPOUND EXTRUSION1 and 2) were also up-regulated in buckwheat, indicating some common Al tolerance mechanism across the species, although most STOP1/ART1-regulated gene homologs were not changed. Most genes involved in citric and oxalic acid biosynthesis were not significantly altered. Some transporter genes were highly expressed in the roots and leaves and responded to Al stress, implicating their role in Al tolerance and accumulation. Overall, our data provide a platform for further characterizing the functions of genes involved in Al tolerance and accumulation in buckwheat.
The gene of the trypsin inhibitor of tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum) was successfully cloned, expressed in Pichia pastoris and tested for regulatory effects on insect growth. The three significant factors were optimized by single-factor experiments and central composite design in response surface methodology. Proteins were efficiently expressed at levels of 489.6-527.4 U/mg in shaken flasks. The trypsin inhibitor from tartary buckwheat (FtTI) was purified by affinity chromatography and centrifugal ultrafiltration. The purified FtTI efficiently inhibited trypsin protease activity by competitive inhibition with a Ki value 1.5 nM. The molecular mass of the purified protein was approximately 13.8 kDa. FtTI had a higher toxic killing effect on Mamestra brassicae larvae. The median lethal concentration for the larvae was 15 μg/mL.
Differential expression patterns of flavonoid biosynthetic pathway genes in the hairy roots of tartary buckwheat cultivars "Hokkai T8" and "Hokkai T10" were studied over a time course of the light-dark cycle. The Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated transformation system was applied for inducing hairy roots. Further, a total of six phenolic compounds and two anthocyanins were analyzed in the hairy roots which were exposed to both light and dark conditions, and their amounts were estimated by HPLC. The gene expression levels peaked on day 5 of culture during the time course of both dark and light conditions. Notably, FtPAL, Ft4CL, FtC4H, FtCHI, FtF3H, FtF3'H-1, and FtFLS-1 were more highly expressed in Hokkai T10 than in Hokkai T8 under dark conditions, among which FtPAL and FtCHI were found to be significantly upregulated, except on day 20 of culture. Significantly higher levels of phenolic compound, rutin, along with two anthocyanins were detected in the hairy roots of Hokkai T10 under both conditions. Furthermore, among all the phenolic compounds detected, the amount of rutin in Hokkai T10 hairy roots was found to be ∼5-fold (59,01 mg/g dry weight) higher than that in the control (12.45 mg/g dry weight) at the respective time periods under light and dark conditions.
Arabidopsis thaliana APETALA3 (AP3) and Antirrhinum majus DEFICIENS (DEF) MADS box genes are required to specify petal and stamen identity. AP3 and DEF are members of the euAP3 lineage, which arose by gene duplication coincident with radiation of the core eudicots. In order to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying organ development in early diverging clades of core eudicots, we isolated and identified an AP3 homolog, FaesAP3, from Fagopyrum esculentum (buckwheat, Polygonaceae), a multi-food-use pseudocereal with healing benefits. Protein sequence alignment and phylogenetic analyses revealed that FaesAP3 grouped into the euAP3 lineage. Expression analysis showed that FaesAP3 was transcribed only in developing stamens, and differed from AP3 and DEF, which expressed in developing petals and stamens. Moreover, ectopic expression of FaesAP3 rescued stamen development without complementation of petal development in an Arabidopsis ap3 mutant. Our results suggest that FaesAP3 is involved in the development of stamens in buckwheat. These results also suggest that FaesAP3 holds some potential for biotechnical engineering to create a male sterile line of F. esculentum.
Cervical cancer is the second most common female carcinoma. Current therapies are often unsatisfactory, especially for advanced stage patients. The aim of this study was to explore the effects of tatariside G (TG) on apoptosis in human cervical cancer HeLa cells and the possible mechanism of action involved. An MTT assay was employed to evaluate cell viability. Hoechst 33258 staining and flow cytometry (FCM) assays were used to detect cell apoptosis. The protein expression of phosphorylated JNK, P38, ERK and Akt and cleaved caspase-3 and caspase-9 was evaluated by western blot analysis. Additionally, the mRNA expression of caspase-3 and caspase-9 was measured by fluorescent quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (FQ-RT-PCR). TG notably inhibited cell viability, enhanced the percentage of apoptotic cells, facilitated the phosphorylation of p38 MAPK and JNK proteins and caspase-3 and caspase-9 cracking, downregulated the phosphorylation level of Akt, and increased the loss of MMP and the mRNA expression of caspase-3 and caspase-9. TG-induced apoptosis is associated with activation of the mitochondrial death pathway. TG may be an effective candidate for chemotherapy against cervical cancer.
Gluten-free beer-like beverages from malted buckwheat and quinoa are somehow close to their commercial production, but rather high expenses are expected due to the relatively high price of grain, some technological adaptations of process and the need for external enzyme supplementation during mashing. One of the common and efficient cost reduction measures in the industrial scale is serial repitching of the yeast biomass, which has not been studied for the buckwheat and quinoa wort fermentation before. In that manner we have monitored possible changes in yeast's proteins and chromosomal DNA during eleven serial repitchings of the yeast Saccharomyces pastorianus strain TUM 34/70 for fermentation of the barley, buckwheat and quinoa wort. Karyotypes showed changes in regard to the raw materials used and many responsible candidate proteins are suggested which could cause these differences. Different relative expressions of some protein bands were also linked to the proteins involved in yeast stress response and proteins involved in fermentation performance. Results suggest that serial repitching of the strain TUM 34/70 seems suitable for the production of gluten-free beer-like beverages from buckwheat and quinoa.
Buckwheat sprouts are a popular food item in many countries. The effects of light-emitting diodes (LEDs) on sprout growth and development, changes in mRNA transcription, and accumulation of phenylpropanoid compounds were studied in tartary buckwheat 'Hokkai T8' sprouts. The highest transcript levels were observed after 2 days of LED exposure for all genes, especially FtPAL and FtF3'H, which showed higher expression in sprouts grown under blue and white light than in those grown under red light. Catechin content in sprouts grown under red light increased dramatically throughout the 10 day time course. Maximum rutin content (43.37 mg/g dry weight (DW)) was observed in sprouts at 4 days after exposure (DAE) to blue light. Similarly, the highest cyanidin 3-O-rutinoside content (0.85 mg/g DW) was detected at 10 DAE to blue light. On the basis of these results, blue LED light is recommended as a light source for enhancing the content of phenolic compounds in tartary buckwheat sprouts.
Tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) contains high concentrations of flavonoids. The flavonoids are mainly represented by rutin, anthocyanins and proanthocyanins in tartary buckwheat. R2R3-type MYB transcription factors (TFs) play key roles in the transcriptional regulation of the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway. In this study, two TF genes, FtMYB1 and FtMYB2, were isolated from F. tataricum and characterized. The results of bioinformatic analysis indicated that the putative FtMYB1 and FtMYB2 proteins belonged to the R2R3-MYB family and displayed a high degree of similarity with TaMYB14 and AtMYB123/TT2. In vitro and in vivo evidence both showed the two proteins were located in the nucleus and exhibited transcriptional activation activities. During florescence, both FtMYB1 and FtMYB2 were more highly expressed in the flowers than any other organ. The overexpression of FtMYB1 and FtMYB2 significantly enhanced the accumulation of proanthocyanidins (PAs) and showed a strong effect on the target genes' expression in Nicotiana tabacum. The expression of dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) was upregulated to 5.6-fold higher than that of control, and the expression level was lower for flavonol synthase (FLS). To our knowledge, this is the first functional characterization of two MYB TFs from F. tataricum that control the PA pathway.
Anthocyanidin reductase (ANR) and leucoanthocyanidin reductase (LAR) play an important role in the monomeric units biosynthesis of proanthocyanidins (PAs) such as catechin and epicatechin in several plants. The aim of this study was to clone ANR and LAR genes involved in PAs biosynthesis and examine the expression of these two genes in different organs under different growth conditions in two tartary buckwheat cultivars, Hokkai T8 and T10. Gene expression was carried out by quantitative real-time RT-PCR, and catechin and epicatechin content was analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography. The expression pattern of ANR and LAR did not match the accumulation pattern of PAs in different organs of two cultivars. Epicatechin content was the highest in the flowers of both cultivars and it was affected by light in only Hokkai T8 sprouts. ANR and LAR levels in tartary buckwheat might be regulated by different mechanisms for catechin and epicatechin biosynthesis under light and dark conditions.
Rutin is an important indicator for evaluating the quality of buckwheat. In this study, flavonoid biosynthesis was compared between two common cultivars (an original and a high-rutin line) of buckwheat, Fagopyrum esculentum Moench. Transcriptional levels of the main flavonoid biosynthetic genes were analyzed by real-time PCR, and main flavonoid metabolites were detected by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC); levels of gene expression varied among organs of the two cultivars. Significantly higher transcription levels of most flavonoid biosynthetic genes, except FeFLS1, were detected in stems of the high-rutin line than in stems of the original line. FeCHI and FeFLS2 genes also showed higher expression levels in seeds of the high-rutin cultivar. In contrast, FePAL, FeC4H, Fe4CL1, FeCHS, FeF3H, FeF3'H, FeFLS2, and FeDFR were highly detected in the roots of the original line. The HPLC results indicated 1.73-, 1.62-, and 1.77-fold higher accumulation of rutin (the primary flavonoid compound) in leaves, stems, and mature seeds of the high-rutin cultivar (24.86, 1.46, and 1.36 μg/mg, respectively) compared with the original cultivar (14.40, 0.90, and 0.77 μg/mg, respectively). A total of 46 metabolites were identified from seeds by gas chromatography-time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The metabolite profiles were subjected to principal component analysis (PCA). PCA could clearly differentiate the original and high-rutin cultivars. Our results indicate that the high-rutin cultivar could be an excellent alternative for buckwheat culture, and we provide useful information for obtaining this cultivar.
Resveratrol synthase (RS) is the key enzyme for biosynthesis of resveratrol which come from coumaroyl-coenzyme A (CoA) and malonyl-CoA. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of a RS gene and accumulation of resveratrol in tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum). FtRS was composed of 1173 bp open reading frame and 390 amino acid residues and had a theoretical molecular weight and isoelectric point value of 43.70 kDa and 6.24, respectively. The FtRS expression levels were examined in sprouts and different organs of two tartary buckwheat cultivars, Hokkai T8 (T8) and Hokkai T10 (T10). FtRS transcript levels and resveratrol contents were higher under the dark condition compared with light condition. The expression levels of different organs of T10 was not observed significant variations compared to different organs of T8. Interestingly, resveratrol was detected in the sprouts developmental stages, but no resveratrol could not detect in any other organs of both T8 and T10. Therefore, we suggest that the resveratrol content in tartary buckwheat sprouts may be attributed mainly to the dark condition. The characterization of FtRS will be helpful for better understanding of the resveratrol biosynthesis in tartary buckwheat.
In this study, the optimum wavelengths of light required for carotenoid biosynthesis were determined by investigating the expression levels of carotenoid biosynthetic genes and carotenoid accumulation in sprouts of tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) exposed to white, blue, and red light-emitting diodes (LEDs). Most carotenoid biosynthetic genes showed higher expression in sprouts irradiated with white light at 8 days after sowing than in those irradiated with blue and red lights. The dominant carotenoids in tartary buckwheat sprouts were lutein and β-carotene. The richest accumulation of total carotenoids was observed in sprouts grown under white light (1282.63 μg g(-1) dry weight), which was relatively higher than that in sprouts grown under blue and red lights (940.86 and 985.54 μg g(-1), respectively). This study might establish an effective strategy for maximizing the production of carotenoids and other important secondary metabolites in tartary buckwheat sprouts by using LED technology.
Numerous botanists of the early 19th century investigated the effect of sunlight on plant development, but no clear picture developed. One hundred and fifty years ago, Julius Sachs (1863) systematically analysed the light-plant relationships, using developing garden nasturtium (Tropaeolum majus) and seedlings of buckwheat (Fagopyron esculentum) as experimental material. From these studies, Sachs elucidated the phenomenon of photomorphogenesis (plant development under the influence of daylight) and the associated 'shade-avoidance response'. We have reproduced the classical buckwheat experiments of Sachs (1863) and document the original shade-avoidance syndrome with reference to hypocotyl elongation and cotyledon development in darkness (skotomorphogenesis), white light and shade induced by a canopy of green leaves. In subsequent publications, Sachs elaborated his concepts of 1863 and postulated the occurrence of 'flower-inducing substances'. In addition, he argued that the shade-avoidance response in cereals, such as wheat and maize, is responsible for lodging in crowded plant communities. We discuss these processes with respect to the red- to far-red light/phytochrome B relationships. Finally, we summarise the phytochrome B-phytohormone (auxin, brassinosteroids) connection within the cells of shaded Arabidopsis plants, and present a simple model to illustrate the shade-avoidance syndrome. In addition, we address the relationship between plant density and health of the corresponding population, a topic that was raised for the first time by Sachs (1863) in his seminal paper and elaborated in his textbooks.
Red-flowered buckwheat ( Fagopyrum esculentum ) is used in the production of tea, juice, and alcohols after the detoxification of fagopyrin. In order to investigate the metabolomics and regulatory of anthocyanin production in red-flowered (Gan-Chao) and white-flowered (Tanno) buckwheat cultivars, quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR), gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOFMS), and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) were conducted. The transcriptions of FePAL, FeC4H, Fe4CL1, FeF3H, FeANS, and FeDFR increased gradually from flowering stage 1 and reached their highest peaks at flowering stage 3 in Gan-Chao flower. In total 44 metabolites, 18 amino acids, 15 organic acids, 7 sugars, 3 sugar alcohols, and 1 amine were detected in Gan-Chao flowers. Two anthocyanins, cyanidin 3-O-glucoside and cyanidin 3-O-rutinoside, were identified in Gan-Chao cultivar. The first component of the partial least-squares to latent structures-discriminate analysis (PLS-DA) indicated that high amounts of phenolic, shikimic, and pyruvic acids were present in Gan-Chao. We suggest that transcriptions of genes involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis, anthocyanin contents, and metabolites have correlation in the red-flowered buckwheat Gan-Chao flowers. Our results may be helpful to understand anthocyanin biosynthesis in red-flowered buckwheat.
Seven partial-length cDNAs and 1 full-length cDNA that were involved in carotenoid biosynthesis and 2 partial-length cDNAs that encoded carotenoid cleavage dioxygenases were first isolated and characterised in 2 tartary buckwheat cultivars (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.), Hokkai T8 and Hokkai T10. They were constitutively expressed at high levels in the leaves and flowers, where carotenoids are mostly distributed. During the seed development of tartary buckwheat, an inverse correlation between transcription level of carotenoid cleavage dioxygenase and carotenoid content was observed. The light-grown sprouts exhibited higher levels of expression of carotenoid biosynthetic genes in T10 and carotenoid content in both T8 and T10 compared to the dark-grown sprouts. The predominant carotenoids in tartary buckwheat were lutein and β-carotene, and very abundant amounts of these carotenoids were found in light-grown sprouts. This study might broaden our understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in carotenoid biosynthesis and indicates targets for increasing the production of carotenoids in tartary buckwheat.
Flavonoids are ubiquitously present in plants and play important roles in these organisms as well as in the human diet. Flavonol synthase (FLS) is a key enzyme of the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway, acting at the diverging point into the flavonol subclass branch. We isolated and characterized a FLS isoform gene, FtFLS2, from tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum). FtFLS2 shares 48% identity and 67% similarity with the previously reported FtFLS1, whereas both genes share 47-65% identity and 65-69% similarity with FLSs from other plant species. Using quantitative real-time PCR and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), the expression of FtFLS1/2 and the production of 3 main flavonols (kaempferol, myricetin and quercetin) was detected in roots, leaves, stems, flowers and different stages of developing seeds. The relationship between the expression of the 2 FLS genes and the accumulation of the 3 basic flavonols was analyzed in 2 tartary buckwheat cultivars. FtFLS1 and FtFLS2 exhibited differential transcriptional levels between the tartary buckwheat cultivars 'Hokkai T10' and 'Hokkai T8'. Generally, higher transcript levels of FtFLS1 and FtFLS2 and a higher amount of flavonols were observed in the 'Hokkai T10' cultivar than 'Hokkai T8'. The content of flavonols showed tissue-specific accumulation between the 2 cultivars. The transcription of FtFLS1 was inhibited by the exogenous application of abscisic acid (ABA), salicylic acid (SA) and sodium chloride (NaCl), while FtFLS2 was not affected by ABA but up-regulated by SA and NaCl. These data indicate that the 2 FtFLS isoforms of buckwheat have different functions in the response of buckwheat to environmental stress.
Buckwheat, Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn., is an important medicinal plant, which contains several phenolic compounds, including one of the highest content of rutin, a phenolic compound with anti-inflammatory properties. An experiment was conducted to investigate the level of expression of various genes in the phenylpropanoid biosynthetic pathway to analyze in vitro production of anthocyanin and phenolic compounds from hairy root cultures derived from 2 cultivars of tartary buckwheat (Hokkai T8 and T10). A total of 47 metabolites were identified by gas chromatography-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOFMS) and subjected to principal component analysis (PCA) in order to fully distinguish between Hokkai T8 and T10 hairy roots. The expression levels of phenylpropanoid biosynthetic pathway genes, through qRT-PCR, showed higher expression for almost all the genes in T10 than T8 hairy root except for FtF3'H-2 and FtFLS-2. Rutin, quercetin, gallic acid, caffeic acid, ferulic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, and 2 anthocyanin compounds were identified in Hokkai T8 and T10 hairy roots. The concentration of rutin and anthocyanin in Hokkai T10 hairy roots of tartary buckwheat was several-fold higher compared with that obtained from Hokkai T8 hairy root. This study provides useful information on the molecular and physiological dynamic processes that are correlated with phenylpropanoid biosynthetic gene expression and phenolic compound content in F. tataricum species.
Tartary buckwheat ( Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) contains a high level of flavonoid compounds, which have beneficial and pharmacological effects on health. In this study, we isolated full-length cDNAs encoding hydroxycinnamoyl-coenzyme A quinate hydroxycinnamoyltransferase (HQT) and p-coumarate 3'-hydroxylase (C3H), which are involved in chlorogenic acid (CGA) biosynthesis. We examined the expression levels of HQT and C3H using real-time RT-PCR in different organs and sprouts of two tartary buckwheat cultivars (Hokkai T8 and T10) and analyzed CGA content using high-performance liquid chromatography. Among the organs, the flowers in both cultivars showed the highest levels of CGA. We concluded that the expression pattern of FtHQT and FtC3H did not match the accumulation pattern of CGA in different organs of T8 and T10 cultivars. Gene expression and CGA content varied between the cultivars. We presume that FtHQT and FtC3H levels might be controlled by multiple metabolic pathways in different organs of tartary buckwheat. Probably, FtC3H might have a greater effect on CGA biosynthesis than FtHQT. Our results will be helpful for a greater understanding of CGA biosynthesis in tartary buckwheat.
Buckwheat sprouts contain various bioactive compounds including rutin which have a number of biological activities. We have previously shown that buckwheat sprouts (TBWE) treated with methyl jasmonate (MeJA) significantly increased the amount of phenolics and the antioxidant activity. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the effect of TBWE on anti-adipogenesis and pro-oxidant enzyme in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. We also evaluated the anti-oxidative activity of TBWE in adipocytes by using the nitroblue tetrazolium assay. Our data showed that TBWE markedly inhibited adipocyte differentiation and ROS production in 3T3-L1 cells compared with control groups. Moreover, TBWE has strongly shown the inhibition of adipogenic transcription factor as well as pro-oxidant enzymes. Together, we demonstrate that the MeJA treatment significantly increased the amount of phenolic compound, resulting in the suppression of adipogenesis and ROS production in the 3T3-L1 cells. These findings indicate that TBWE has the potential for anti-adipogenesis activity with anti-oxidative properties.
The present work extends knowledge about possible biosynthesis of fagopyrin in buckwheat plants by providing possible candidate genes for its biosynthesis and the role of type III polyketide synthases (PKSs). Moreover, new information is presented about the possible connection between naphthodianthrones and phenolic biosynthesis. Possible regulation of fagopyrin biosynthesis and production under different growth conditions is also discussed.
To observe the effects of total flavonoids of tartary buckwheat on NO synthesis in EA.hy926 cells induced by palmitic acid. EA.hy926 cells were cultured in vitro and randomly divided into control group, palmitic acid-induced insulin resistance group, total flavonoids of tartary buckwheat group and metformin group. The content of NO in supernatant was detected by nitrate reductase. The eNOS mRNA and protein expression levels were determined by RT-PCR and Western blotting, respectively. Compared with control group, the NO content in supernatant and the expression levels of eNOS mRNA and protein were significantly lower in insulin resistance group (P<0.05). Compared with insulin resistance group, the NO content in supernatant, as well as the eNOS mRNA and protein expression markedly increased in both total flavonoids of tartary buckwheat group and metformin group (P<0.05), but there was no significant difference between the latter two groups (P>0.05). Total flavonoids of tartary buckwheat effectively promotes the expression of eNOS mRNA and protein in endothelial cells under palmitic acid stimulation, thereby contributing to the NO synthesis.
The leucoanthocyantin reducase (LAR) gene, an important functional gene of catechins biosynthesis pathway, was cloned from Fagopyrum dibotrys (D.Don) Hara by degenerate PCR and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). The full-length cDNA of FdLAR is 1 581 bp (GenBank accession: JN793953), containing a 1 176 bp ORF encoding a 391 amino acids protein, and its 3'-untranslated region has an obvious polyadenylation signal. The recombinant plasmid containing FdLAR completed ORF was transformed into E. coli BL21 (DE3). The target fusion peptide with molecular weight of 66 kD was expressed under the condition of 16 degrees C and induced by IPTG at final concentration of 1.0 mmol x L(-1). Bioinformation analysis indicated that the amino acid sequence of FdLAR showed great homology to other LAR with the NADB-Rossmann conversed domain in the N-terminus. Real-time quantitative PCR was used to detect the expression levels of FdLAR gene during different development periods. The determination of flavonoids contents in appropriate rhizomes showed that the relationship between FdLAR gene expression and the accumulation of flavonoids displayed different trends during vegetative growth and reproductive growth stages, suggesting that the FdLAR gene may be involved in the pathway of flavonoid metabolisms in Fagopyrum dibotrys.
Buckwheat, consisting of two cultivated species Fagopyrum tataricum and F. esculentum, is the richest source of flavonoid rutin. Vegetative tissues of both the Fagopyrum species contain almost similar amount of rutin; however, rutin content in seed of F. tataricum are ~50 folds of that in seed of F. esculentum. In order to understand the molecular basis of high rutin content in F. tataricum, differential transcript profiling through cDNA-AFLP has been utilized to decipher what genetic factors in addition to flavonoid structural genes contribute to high rutin content of F. tataricum compared to F. esculentum. Differential transcript profiling through cDNA-AFLP in seed maturing stages (inflorescence to seed maturation) with 32 primer combinations generated total of 509 transcript fragments (TDFs). 167 TDFs were then eluted, cloned and sequenced from F. tataricum and F. esculentum. Categorization of TDFs on the basis of their presence/absence (qualitative variation) or differences in the amount of expression (quantitative variation) between both the Fagopyrum species showed that majority of variants are quantitative (64%). The TDFs represented genes controlling different biological processes such as basic and secondary metabolism (33%), regulation (18%), signal transduction (14%), transportation (13%), cellular organization (10%), and photosynthesis & energy (4%). Most of the TDFs except belonging to cellular metabolism showed relatively higher transcript abundance in F. tataricum over F. esculentum. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of nine TDFs representing genes involved in regulation, metabolism, signaling and transport of secondary metabolites showed that all the tested nine TDFs (Ubiquitin protein ligase, ABC transporter, sugar transporter) except MYB 118 showed significantly higher expression in early seed formation stage (S7) of F. tataricum compared to F. esculentum. qRT-PCR results were found to be consistent with the cDNA-AFLP results. The present study concludes that in addition to structural genes, other classes of genes such as regulators, modifiers and transporters are also important in biosynthesis and accumulation of flavonoid content in plants. cDNA-AFLP technology was successfully utilized to capture genes that are contributing to differences in rutin content in seed maturing stages of Fagopyrum species. Increased transcript abundance of TDFs during transition from flowers to seed maturation suggests their involvement not only in the higher rutin content of F. tataricum over F. esculentum but also in nutritional superiority of the former.
Buckwheat sprouts are considered an excellent dietary source of phenolic compounds. The time duration and amount of light for sprouting strongly affect the nutritional quality of sprouts. In this study, these two factors were investigated in two cultivars of tartary buckwheat sprouts: Hokkai T8 and T10. The transcriptional levels of flavonoid biosynthetic genes were investigated in light/dark- and dark-treated sprouts. Among the main flavonoid biosynthesis structural genes, FtPAL, Ft4CL, FtF3H, FtDFR, and FtANS exhibited higher transcriptional levels than others as compared to that of a housekeeping gene (histone H3) during sprouting; FtF3'H1, FtF3'H2, FtFLS2, and FtANS were substantially upregulated at 2, 4, and 6 days in light/dark-treated T10 sprouts than in dark-treated ones. However, FtDFR was downregulated in 8 and 10 day old light/dark-treated sprouts of both cultivars. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis revealed that increasing the culture time did not affect the accumulation of flavonoids or anthocyanins. However, light contributed the production of anthocyanins in Hokkai T10 sprouts. The anthocyanins included cyanidin 3-O-glucoside, cyanidin 3-O-rutinoside, and delphinidin-3-O-coumarylglucoside, which were identified by HPLC and electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry. Instead of anthocyanins, Hokkai T8 sprouts produced large amounts of 4 flavonoid C-glycosylflavone compounds in both light/dark and dark conditions: orientin, isoorientin, vitexin, and isovitexin. These results indicate that these two types of tartary buckwheat sprouts have different mechanisms for flavonoid and anthocyanin biosynthesis that also vary in light/dark and dark conditions.
Evidence from in vitro and in vivo studies indicates that rutin, the main flavonoid in tartary buckwheat ( Fagopyrum tataricum ), may have high value for medicine and health. This paper reports the finding of a flavonol synthase (FLS) gene, cloned and characterized from F. tataricum and designated FtFLS1, that is involved in rutin biosynthesis. The FtFLS1 gene was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3), and the recombinant soluble FtFLS1 protein had a relative molecular mass of 40 kDa. The purified recombinant protein showed, with dihydroquercetin as substrate, total and specific activities of 36.55 × 10(-3) IU and 18.94 × 10(-3) IU/mg, respectively, whereas the total and specific activities were 10.19 × 10(-3) IU and 5.28 × 10(-3) IU/mg, respectively, with dihydrokaempferol. RT-PCR revealed that during F. tataricum florescence there was an organ-specific expression pattern by the FtFLS1 gene, with similar trends in flavonoid content. These observations suggest that FtFLS1 in F. tataricum encodes a functional protein, which might play a key role in rutin biosynthesis.
To clone and characterize the DNA and cDNA sequences of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase gene (PAL) from Fagopyrum dibotrys, and investigate the biological activity of the obtained PAL. Using homology cloning and RT-PCR techniques, the DNA and full-length cDNA sequences of PAL gene were amplified from F. dibotrys. The obtained sequences were analyzed by bioinformatics software. The ORF of PAL gene was cloned into expression vector pET-30b(+) and transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) for expression the recombined protein. The catalytic activity of the recombined protein was determined by Spectrophotometer and thin layer chromatography (TLC) methods. The DNA sequence of PAL gene (designated as FdPAL, GenBank accession number: HM628904) was 2 583 bp in size, of which consisted two extrons and a single intron, and the full-length cDNA of FdPAL was 2 169 bp in size, which contained an ORF. The deduced protein of FdPAL contained 722 amino acids with calculated molecular weight (MW) of 78.31 kDa and an isoelectric point (pI) of 5.94. The SDS-PAGE results showed that the molecular weight of recombinant FdPAL protein was 75.37 kDa, which is consistent with the predictions. After 4 hours of induction, the enzymatic specific activity of FdPAL reached the summit, up to 4 386 nmol x g(-1) x min(-1). The reaction products were also identified by TLC, using L-Phe and trans-cinnamic acid as the internal standard. The PAL gene (both DNA sequence and full-length cDNA sequence) was cloned from F. dibotrys, and it has the same classic characters as other PALs in plants. The recombinant FdPAL was efficiently expressed in E. coli and had the activity for catalyzing the conversion from L-phenylalanine to cinnamic acid.
The different forms of flowers in a species have attracted the attention of many evolutionary biologists, including Charles Darwin. In Fagopyrum esculentum (common buckwheat), the occurrence of dimorphic flowers, namely short-styled and long-styled flowers, is associated with a type of self-incompatibility (SI) called heteromorphic SI. The floral morphology and intra-morph incompatibility are both determined by a single genetic locus named the S-locus. Plants with short-styled flowers are heterozygous (S/s) and plants with long-styled flowers are homozygous recessive (s/s) at the S-locus. Despite recent progress in our understanding of the molecular basis of flower development and plant SI systems, the molecular mechanisms underlying heteromorphic SI remain unresolved. By examining differentially expressed genes from the styles of the two floral morphs, we identified a gene that is expressed only in short-styled plants. The novel gene identified was completely linked to the S-locus in a linkage analysis of 1,373 plants and had homology to EARLY FLOWERING 3. We named this gene S-LOCUS EARLY FLOWERING 3 (S-ELF3). In an ion-beam-induced mutant that harbored a deletion in the genomic region spanning S-ELF3, a phenotype shift from short-styled flowers to long-styled flowers was observed. Furthermore, S-ELF3 was present in the genome of short-styled plants and absent from that of long-styled plants both in world-wide landraces of buckwheat and in two distantly related Fagopyrum species that exhibit heteromorphic SI. Moreover, independent disruptions of S-ELF3 were detected in a recently emerged self-compatible Fagopyrum species and a self-compatible line of buckwheat. The nonessential role of S-ELF3 in the survival of individuals and the prolonged evolutionary presence only in the genomes of short-styled plants exhibiting heteromorphic SI suggests that S-ELF3 is a suitable candidate gene for the control of the short-styled phenotype of buckwheat plants.
Common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench) is rich in phenolic compounds and may be useful for the treatment of metabolic syndrome in humans. To improve the production of rutin in buckwheat, we overexpressed the flavonol-specific transcription factor, AtMYB12 using Agrobacterium rhizogenes into hairy root culture systems. This induced the expression of flavonoid biosynthetic genes encoding phenylalanine ammonia lyase, cinnamate 4-hydroxylase, 4-coumarate:CoA ligase, chalcone synthase, chalcone isomerase, flavone 3-hydroxylase, flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase, and flavonol synthase. This led to the accumulation of rutin in buckwheat hairy roots up to 0.9 mg/g dry wt. PAP1 expression, however, did not correlate with the production of rutin.
Buckwheat is one of the field crops with the highest concentration of rutin, an important flavonoid of medicinal value. Two species of buckwheat, Fagopyrum esculentum and Fagopyrum tataricum, are the major sources of rutin. Seeds of latter contain 40-50× higher rutin compared to the former. The physiological and molecular bases of rutin content variation between Fagopyrum species are not known. The current study investigated the differences in rutin content in seeds and in other tissues and growth stages of two Fagopyrum species, and also correlated those differences with the expression of flavonoid pathway genes. The analysis of rutin content dynamics at different growth stages, S1-S9 (from seed germination to mature seed formation) of Fagopyrum species revealed that rutin content was higher during seedling stages of F. tataricum (3.5 to 4.6-fold) compared to F. esculentum and then increased exponentially from stages S3 to S6 (different leaf maturing stages and inflorescence) of F. esculentum, whereas it fluctuated in F. tataricum. The rutin content was highest in the inflorescence stage (S6) of both species, with a relatively higher biosynthesis and accumulation during post-flowering stages of F. tataricum compared to F. esculentum. The expression of flavonoid pathway genes, through qRT-PCR, in different growth stages vis-à-vis rutin content variation showed differential expression for four genes, PAL, CHS, CHI and FLS with the amounts of transcripts relatively higher in F. tataricum compared to F. esculentum, thereby, correlating these genes with the biosynthesis and accumulation of rutin. The expression of PAL was highest, 7.69 and 8.96-fold in Stages 2 (seedling stage) and 9 (fully developed seeds) of F. tataricum compared to F. esculentum, respectively. The expression of the CHS gene correlated with the rutin content because it was highest in the flowers (S6) and fully developed seeds (S9) of both Fagopyrum species, with relatively higher transcript amounts (2.13 and 3.19-fold, respectively) in F. tataricum (IC-329457) compared to F. esculentum (IC-540858). This study provides useful information on molecular and physiological dynamics of rutin biosynthesis and accumulation in Fagopyrum species and the correlation of expression of flavonoid biosynthesis genes with the rutin content can be useful in planning for genetic improvement.
Quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) is one of the most precise and widely used methods of gene expression analysis. A necessary prerequisite of exact and reliable data is the accurate choice of reference genes. We studied the expression stability of potential reference genes in common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) in order to find the optimal reference for gene expression analysis in this economically important crop. Recently sequenced buckwheat floral transcriptome was used as source of sequence information. Expression stability of eight candidate reference genes was assessed in different plant structures (leaves and inflorescences at two stages of development and fruits). These genes are the orthologs of Arabidopsis genes identified as stable in a genome-wide survey gene of expression stability and a traditionally used housekeeping gene GAPDH. Three software applications--geNorm, NormFinder and BestKeeper--were used to estimate expression stability and provided congruent results. The orthologs of AT4G33380 (expressed protein of unknown function, Expressed1), AT2G28390 (SAND family protein, SAND) and AT5G46630 (clathrin adapter complex subunit family protein, CACS) are revealed as the most stable. We recommend using the combination of Expressed1, SAND and CACS for the normalization of gene expression data in studies on buckwheat using qRT-PCR. These genes are listed among five the most stably expressed in Arabidopsis that emphasizes utility of the studies on model plants as a framework for other species.
Six genes involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis in tartary buckwheat have been cloned, namely, FtC4H, Ft4CL, FtCHI, FtF3H, FtF3'H, and FtANS, which encode cinnamate 4-hydroxylase (C4H), 4-coumarate:CoA ligase (4CL), chalcone isomerase (CHI), flavones 3-hydroxylase (F3H), flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase (F3'H), and anthocyanidin synthase (ANS), respectively. Then, these cDNAs were used, along with previously isolated clones for phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and chalcone synthase (CHS), to compare gene expression in different organs, flowering stages, and maturing seeds of tartary buckwheat cultivars 'Hokkai T8' and 'Hokkai T10'. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that these anthocyanin biosynthetic genes were most highly expressed in the stems and roots of Hokkai T10. The FtANS gene was more highly expressed than other genes during flowering and maturing seeds. In addition, the anthocyanin concentration was higher in 'Hokkai T10' than in 'Hokkai T8'; however, naringenin chalcone, a flavonoid, was absent from 'Hokkai T10' seedlings based on fluorescence microscopy.
Transcriptome sequencing data has become an integral component of modern genetics, genomics and evolutionary biology. However, despite advances in the technologies of DNA sequencing, such data are lacking for many groups of living organisms, in particular, many plant taxa. We present here the results of transcriptome sequencing for two closely related plant species. These species, Fagopyrum esculentum and F. tataricum, belong to the order Caryophyllales--a large group of flowering plants with uncertain evolutionary relationships. F. esculentum (common buckwheat) is also an important food crop. Despite these practical and evolutionary considerations Fagopyrum species have not been the subject of large-scale sequencing projects. Normalized cDNA corresponding to genes expressed in flowers and inflorescences of F. esculentum and F. tataricum was sequenced using the 454 pyrosequencing technology. This resulted in 267 (for F. esculentum) and 229 (F. tataricum) thousands of reads with average length of 341-349 nucleotides. De novo assembly of the reads produced about 25 thousands of contigs for each species, with 7.5-8.2× coverage. Comparative analysis of two transcriptomes demonstrated their overall similarity but also revealed genes that are presumably differentially expressed. Among them are retrotransposon genes and genes involved in sugar biosynthesis and metabolism. Thirteen single-copy genes were used for phylogenetic analysis; the resulting trees are largely consistent with those inferred from multigenic plastid datasets. The sister relationships of the Caryophyllales and asterids now gained high support from nuclear gene sequences. 454 transcriptome sequencing and de novo assembly was performed for two congeneric flowering plant species, F. esculentum and F. tataricum. As a result, a large set of cDNA sequences that represent orthologs of known plant genes as well as potential new genes was generated.
Common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) is a short-season grain crop that is a source of rutin and other phenolic compounds. In this study, we isolated the cDNAs of 11 F. esculentum enzymes in the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway, namely, phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), cinnamate 4-hydroxylase (C4H), 4-coumarate:CoA ligase (4CL) 1 and 2, chalcone synthase (CHS), chalcone isomerase (CHI), flavone 3-hydroxylase (F3H), flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase (F3'H), flavonol synthase (FLS) 1 and 2, and anthocyanidin synthase (ANS). Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that these genes were most highly expressed in the stems and roots. However, high performance liquid chromatography analysis indicated that their flavonoid products, such as rutin and catechin, accumulated in the flowers and leaves. These results suggested that flavonoids may be transported within F. esculentum. In addition, light and dark growth conditions affected the expression levels of the biosynthesis genes and accumulation of phenolic compounds in F. esculentum sprouts.
Metallothionein type 3 (MT3) expression has previously been detected in leaves, fruits, and developing somatic embryos in different plant species. However, specific tissular and cellular localization of MT3 transcripts have remained unidentified. In this study, in situ RNA-RNA analysis revealed buckwheat metallothionein type 3 (FeMT3) transcript localization in vascular elements, mesophyll and guard cells of leaves, vascular tissue of roots and throughout the whole embryo. Changes in FeMT3 mRNA levels in response to drought and oxidative stress, as well as ROS scavenging abilities of the FeMT3 protein in yeast were also detected, indicating possible involvement of FeMT3 in stress defense and ROS related cellular processes.
Although coloration in plants is ascribable to both the accumulation of anthocyanin pigments in vacuoles and to the acidification of vacuolar pH, the environmental factors causing the decrease in vacuolar pH are unknown. We found that blue-light irradiation of buckwheat seedlings using light-emitting diodes caused reddening on the surface of the hypocotyls. It has also been reported that light stimulation induces an accumulation of anthocyanin pigments. However, here we confirmed for the first time on the basis of real-time PCR analysis that light stimulation simultaneously triggers expression of the genes coding for subunit A of vacuolar H+-ATPase (V-ATPase) and vacuolar H(+)-pyrophosphatase (V-PPase).
To determine the most important region in tartary buckwheat allergen. The gene of epitopes was amplified by PCR using the primers designed according to TBa cDNA. Four expression vectors containing the gene of epitopes were constructed, and then transformed into the E.coli BL21(DE3) host cells. The expression products were purified by Ni(2+);-NTA agarose affinity chromatography column and indirect ELISA, inhibition ELISA and Dot blot was performed using sera from allergenic patients. The purified proteins were obtained and the immunological results showed that E1 exhibite stronger IgE binding to patient's serum than the other epitopes. E1 is probably the most important region in tartary buckwheat allergen binding to buckwheat allergic sera IgE.
Predicted by an antigenic program, full-length tartary buckwheat allergen (TBa) is divided into six fragments: E1, E2, E12, E3, E4 and E34. Immunological assays revealed that E1 has the greatest binding activity to patients' serum IgE. Five mutants of E1 gene (L39R, L42R, L47R, V52R and L54R) were constructed using site-directed mutagenesis and each protein was expressed in Escherichia coli BL21. Following purification by Ni(2+) affinity chromatography, ELISA and dot-blot were performed for wild type E1 and its mutants using sera from buckwheat allergic patients and healthy controls. Mutants L42R, L47R, and L54R had weaker IgE binding activity to patient's sera than wild-type E1 implying that Leu42, Leu47, and Leu54 might be involved in the allergic activity of TBa.
To explore the effect and mechanism of flavones of buckwheat flower and leaf (FBFL) on lowering blood glucose and improving insulin resistance in type 2 diabetic rats. Seventy healthy male Wistar rats were used in this trial. Ten of them were selected randomly as normal group; the others were given fat milk by intragastric administration daily, from the 14th day on, low dose tetraoxypyrimidine was added by intraperitoneal injection every other day for three times. Rats with fasting (72 hours after the last injection) blood sugar > or = 16.7 mmol x L(-1) and K(IPT) < 60% of normal group were selected as type 2 diabetic model with insulin resistance, which were randomly divided into 5 groups: model group. LGLT group; low, moderate and high dosage FBFL groups (L-FBFL; M-FBFL; H-FBFL). Every rat was treated accordingly for 4 weeks; then FBG, FFA, INS were detected and ISI was calculated to evaluate the degree of insulin resistance. Liver PTP1B expression was determined by immunohistochemistry method. staining were observed by light microscopy. FBFL could dose-dependently inhibit the rising of FBG, FFA, INS, improve the state of insulin resistance and reduce the expression level of liver PTP1B. FBFL could effectively improve insulin resistance in type 2 diabetic rats induced by tetraoxypyrimidine and fat milk and showed dose-dependence relationship.
The stability of marker nptII and target gene of serine proteinase inhibitor BWI-1a (ISP) from buckwheat seeds after agrobacterial transformation in the new foreign genome environment has been investigated. Different vegetative and seed progeny of self-pollinated transgenic tobacco was studied after propagation at selective and nonselective in vitro conditions. For the majority of transgene lines among random sample of independent transgenic plants stable and coupled PCR confirmed inheritance and expression of marker and target genes has been demonstrated after prolonged microcutting and repeated regeneration cycles at unselective in vitro conditions. The most of the seed T1 progeny of the studied lines has maintained Km-resistance too. However all transgenic lines had significant disturbances at the microsporogenesis process. Two lines (C5 and C12) after 4-year microcutting lacked Km-resistance and at the same time lacked their antibacterial activity. Two other clones revealed variability in Km-resistance (line C7) and seedlings size (line C22) that might be a result of more than 1 transgene insertion or chimaeric nature of transgene plants so it require an additional study.
The protective role in vivo of buckwheat metallothionein type 3 (FeMT3) during metal stress and the responsiveness of its promoter to metal ions were examined. Increased tolerance to heavy metals of FeMT3 producing Escherichia coli and cup1(Delta) yeast cells was detected. The defensive ability of buckwheat MT3 during Cd and Cu stresses was also demonstrated in Nicotiana debneyii leaves transiently expressing FeMT3. In contrast to phytochelatins, the cytoplasmatic localization of FeMT3 was not altered under heavy metal stress. Functional analysis of the corresponding promoter region revealed extremely high inducibility upon Cu(2+) and Cd(2+) treatments. The confirmed defense ability of FeMT3 protein in vivo and the great responsiveness of its promoter during heavy metal exposure make this gene a suitable candidate for biotechnological applications.
TBWSP31 is a novel antitumor protein that was isolated from tartary buckwheat water-soluble extracts. The objective of this paper was to investigate the anti-proliferative effects of TBWSP31 on breast cancer Bcap37cells and to explore its possible mechanism. After treatment of Bcap37 cells with TBWSP31, typical apoptotic morphological changes were observed by inverted microscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM), such as detachment from the culture plate, change to a round shape, cell shrinkage, the absence of obvious microvilli, plasma membrane blebbing, and formation of apoptotic bodies. Cell-cycle analysis revealed that treatment with TBWSP31 resulted in a G(0)/G(1) arrest and prevented the cells from growing from G(0)/G(1) phase to S phase, which was most prominent at 48 h. The expression of bcl-2 and Fas were detected quantitatively by FCM, which showed that TBWSP31 induced-apoptosis may be involved with the participation of Fas and bcl-2. These results suggest that TBWSP31 is a potential antitumor compound and that apoptosis induced by TBWSP31 is a key antitumor mechanism.
Using RACE with a Fagopyrum dibotrys callus cDNA library, one clone, named FdMYBP1, encoding a putative R2R3 MYB protein was identified. FdMYBP1 appeared to be a full-length cDNA of 1159 bp encoding a protein of 265 amino acids. Through structure and property analysis of FdMYBPI with bioinformational methods, it was found that the amino acid sequence of FdMYBP1 showed great homology to other MYBP with the R2R3 repeat region in the N-terminus. Southern blot analysis indicated that FdMYBP1 belongs to a single copy gene in F. dibotrys genomes. The FdMYBP1 gene has the same classic characters with other MYBP and probably involved in the pathway of flavonoid metabolisms.
The aspartic protease (FeAP9) gene from buckwheat resembles the exon-intron structure characteristic for typical aspartic proteinases, including the presence of the leader intron in the 5'-UTR. RT PCR experiments and gel protein blot analysis indicated that FeAP9 was present in all analyzed organs: developing seeds, seedlings, flowers, leaves, roots and stems. Using Real-time PCR, we found that FeAP9 expression is upregulated in buckwheat leaves under the influence of different abiotic stresses, including dark, drought and UV-B light, as well as wounding and salicylic acid.
The molecular mechanisms and the possible effects of a recombinant buckwheat trypsin inhibitor (rBTI) on the induction of apoptosis in the human solid tumor cells (EC9706, HepG2 and HeLa) were investigated. An MTT assay showed that rBTI could specifically inhibit the growth of solid tumor cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Analysis by flow cytometry indicated that the apoptosis of several tumor cells increased after treatment with rBTI in range of 6.25-50microg/ml. DNA electrophoresis analysis showed the 'DNA ladder', typical of apoptosis. rBTI-induced apoptosis was shown to involve Bax and Bak up-regulation, Bcl-2 and Bcl-xl down-regulation, release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria to the cytosol, activation of caspase-3 and -9 and disruption of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential (Deltapsi(m)). The z-DEVD-fmk caspase-3 inhibitor significantly inhibited rBTI-induced apoptosis. We concluded that rBTI can induce the apoptosis in several types of human solid tumor cells and promotes apoptosis through the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway.
To shed light on expression regulation of the metallothionein gene from buckwheat (FeMT3), functional promoter analysis was performed with a complete 5' regulatory region and two deletion variants, employing stably transformed tobacco plants. Histochemical GUS assay of transgenic tobacco lines showed the strongest signals in vascular elements of leaves and in pollen grains, while somewhat weaker staining was observed in the roots of mature plants. This tissue specificity pattern implies a possible function of buckwheat MT3 in those tissues. Quantitative GUS assay showed strong up-regulation of all three promoter constructs (proportional to the length of the regulatory region) in leaves submerged in liquid MS medium containing sucrose, after a prolonged time period. This represented a complex stress situation composed of several synergistically related stress stimuli. These findings suggest complex transcriptional regulation of FeMT3, requiring interactions among a number of different factors.
In conducting an in vitro screening of ethanol extracts from various natural foods using a human colon cancer cell line (CoLoTC cells), an extract of buckwheat sprouts (ExtBS) was found to express significant anti-inflammatory activity. The anti-inflammatory activity of ExtBS was confirmed by oral administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to mice. Inflammatory cytokines (interleukin 6 and tumor necrosis factor alpha) were markedly up-regulated in the spleen and liver from LPS-administrated mice, and combinatory treatment with LPS and ExtBS decreased up-regulation of them in both cytokines. Both serum cytokine levels corresponded to their gene expressions in tissues, but no anti-inflammatry effect in mice was observed when ExtBS was treated intraperitoneally. ExtBS oral administration also showed protective activity as to hepatic injury induced by galactosamine/LPS treatment. Based on these data, we suggest that ExtBS contains anti-inflammatory compounds.
Buckwheat is generally regarded as a nutritionally rich food source. However, earlier studies prove that it also causes allergies to subjects. Allergenic proteins with a strong IgE-binding activity have been identified in common buckwheat (CB) and a 24 kDa allergen (rTBa) in tartary buckwheat (TB). The objective of this research was to clone and express a novel allergen in tartary buckwheat and to evaluate its structure and immunological activity. The 1773 bp full-length cDNA was amplified and cloned from the total RNA of TB by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) methods. Its nucleotide sequence had high similarity with legume-like 13S storage protein mRNA in CB. The deduced amino acid sequence included a putative signal peptide and 18 fragments as its epitope sites. The predicted full-length TB allergen sequence was found to have two domains, and the recombinant protein reacted with sera from patients with positive IgE binding to buckwheat and had a lower binding ability than the recombinant TBa and recombinant TBb (C- and N-terminal amino acid sequence of TBt codes for protein). This fact suggests that full-length TB allergen may hydrolyze to two domains in vivo, decreasing the IgE-binding ability.
Buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench) is an important annual plant cultivated for grain or as a cover crop in many countries, and it is also used for weed suppression in agro-economic systems through its release of allelochemicals. Little is known, however, concerning the mode of action of allelochemicals or plant defence response against them. Here, microarrays revealed 94, 85, and 28 genes with significantly higher expression after 6 h of exposure to the allelochemicals fagomine, gallic acid, and rutin, respectively, compared with controls. These induced genes fell into different functional categories, mainly: interaction with the environment; subcellular localization; protein with binding function or cofactor requirement; cell rescue; defence and virulence; and metabolism. Consistent with these results, plant response to allelochemicals was similar to that for pathogens (biotic stress) or herbicides (abiotic stress), which increase the concentration of reactive oxygen species (ROS; with consequent oxidative stress) in plant cells. The data indicate that allelochemicals might have relevant functions, at least in part, in the cross-talk between biotic and abiotic stress signalling because they generate ROS, which has been proposed as a key shared process between these two stress mechanisms.
Two types of aspartic proteinase (AP) genes have been isolated from the cDNA library of developing buckwheat seeds. Analysis of their sequences showed that one of these, FeAP9, resembled the structure and shared high homology with the so-called typical plant APs characterized by the presence of a plant-specific insert (PSI), an element unique among APs. The other cDNA, FeAPL1, encoded an AP-like protein lacking that domain. Different expression profiles were observed for FeAP9 and FeAPL1. FeAPL1 mRNAs were restricted to the seeds only, whereas FeAP9 mRNAs were also present in the other plant tissues - leaves, roots, and flowers. Higher levels of FeAP9 were observed in senescent leaves compared with green leaves. The differential expression pattern of these two unique APs raises the interesting possibility that these proteinases have unique substrate specificity and may have different roles in plant development and other physiological processes.
The gene of buckwheat trypsin inhibitor (BTI) has been cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. The yield of this recombinant inhibitor was over 12 mg/L by using one-step purification on a Ni2+-NTA Sepharose column. Its molecular weight was 9322.1 Da, determined by mass spectrum analysis. The MTT and cytometry analyses showed that recombinant BTI could specifically inhibit the proliferation of IM-9 human B lymphoblastoid cells (from patient with multiple myeloma) in a dose-dependent manner. The test of recombinant BTI-induced apoptosis in IM-9 cells implied that the inhibitor might have potential application in the treatment of cancer.
Effects of buckwheat germinated for 48 h in suppressing fatty liver were investigated using an animal study. Concentration of rutin was increased more than 10 times, with production of quercitrin and one newly formed flavonoid during 48 h germination. When an ethanol extract of germinated buckwheat was fed daily to C57BL/6 mice at 100 or 200 mg/kg body wt, along with a high-fat diet, oral administration of germinated buckwheat caused significant reductions in TG and TC levels in the liver after 8 weeks. Oral administration of germinated buckwheat also down-regulated mRNA expressions of PPARgamma and C/EBPalpha in hepatocytes, in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that germinated buckwheat has potent anti-fatty liver activities caused partially by suppressing the gene expression of certain adipogenic transcription factors like PPARgamma and C/EBPalpha in hepatocytes.
Agriculture productivity is severely affected by soil salinity. One possible mechanism by which plants could survive salt stress is to compartmentalize sodium ions away from the cytosol. In the present work, transgenic buckwheat plants overexpressing AtNHX1, a vacuolar Na(+)/H(+) antiporter gene from Arabidopsis thaliana, were regenerated after transformation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens. These plants were able to grow, flower and accumulate more rutin in the presence of 200 mmol/l sodium chloride. Moreover, the content of important nutrients in buckwheat was not affected by the high salinity of the soil. These results demonstrated the potential value of these transgenic plants for agriculture use in saline soil.
The morphological and genetic studies of the tlb mutant of common buckwheat Fagopyrum esculentum from the collection of the All-Russia Research Institute of Legumes and Groat Crops have demonstrated that gene TLB controls an important stage of flower development-it determines the lower boundary of simple perianths. The loss of TLB gene function leads to changes in the structure of the bract from scale-like to tepal-like. Gene TLB is assumed to limit, on the basal side, the region of the expression of genes determining the development of flower organs as petals.
Using the modified rapid amplification of cDNA ends (5'-RACE) approach, a fragment containing the 955 bp long 5'-regulatory region of the buckwheat storage globulin gene (FeLEG1) has been amplified from the genomic DNA of buckwheat. The entire fragment was sequenced, and the sequence was analyzed by computer prediction of cis-regulatory elements possibly involved in tissue-specific and developmentally controlled seed storage protein gene expression. The promoter obtained might be interesting not only for fundamental research but also as a useful tool for biotechnological application.
Seeds of common buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) contain valuable nutritive substances but also allergenic proteins that cause hypersensitive reactions. Thus, the development of hypoallergenic buckwheat would make this important pseudo-cereal available to allergic people. A major allergenic protein of buckwheat is Fag e 1. We isolated the respective cDNA, coding for a 22 kDa protein, from a recently developed autogamous strain of common buckwheat and confirmed its immunoglobulin E (IgE)-binding activity using recombinant Fag e 1 and sera of allergic patients. The derived amino acid sequence from Fag e 1 cDNA was used to synthesize an overlapping peptide library on nitrocellulose membranes for the determination of the Fag e 1 epitopes. We identified eight epitopes and the critical amino acids for IgE-binding within the epitopes. This epitope analysis of a major allergenic protein of buckwheat should help therapeutic efforts and aid in the development of hypoallergenic buckwheat.
An 8S storage globulin from buckwheat seed, which resembles the structure and features common to the vicilin-like family of seed storage proteins, was analyzed for this paper. It was found that expression of the 8S globulin gene precedes that of the 13S globulin (the main buckwheat storage protein) and starts from an early stage of buckwheat seed development (9-11 days after flowering), continuing to accumulate throughout seed development to contribute approximately 7% of total seed proteins. This protein fraction might be more interesting for biotechnological application than the 13S buckwheat legumin consisting of 23-25 kDa subunits reported to be the major buckwheat allergen. A partial cDNA was also isolated, showing high homology with cDNAs coding for vicilin-like storage proteins from various plant species, and its expression profile throughout seed development as well as in different buckwheat tissues was analyzed.
The buckwheat metallothionein-like (MT3) gene expression was studied throughout seed and leaf development, as well as under the influence of different external stimuli. MT3 mRNAs were detected from the early stage of seed development to the end of maturation, reaching the highest level during the mid-maturation stage. High MT3 mRNA level was noticed for both green and senescent leaves. The influence of raising Cu ion concentrations on MT3 gene expression was studied only in leaves, while the effect of Zn ions was analyzed through seed development as well. It was found that Cu and Zn ions had stimulatory effects on expression in leaves. MT3 expression was significantly enhanced in the early stage of seed development in response to Zn ions, while after this stage, influence of Zn ions was not detected. After H2O2/NaCl treatment, MT3 mRNA level was decreased in green leaves, contrary to senescent leaves where expression levels remained unchanged. H2O2 treatment caused the increase of MT3 mRNA levels in the mid-maturation stage of seed development. NaCl had no effect on expression levels in seeds. According to obtained results, proposed functions in different plant organs regarding oxidative stress and metal homeostasis are discussed.
The anti-allergic action of buckwheat grain extract (BGE) was investigated using rodent experimental models. The oral, intraperitoneal and intradermal administration of BGE significantly inhibited the compound 48/80-induced vascular permeability documented by Evans blue extravasation. In addition, BGE showed potent inhibitory effect on passive cutaneous anaphylaxis (PCA) activated by anti-dinitrophenyl (DNP) IgE when orally administered. In an in vitro study, BGE revealed to possess inhibitory potential on the compound 48/80-induced histamine release from rat peritoneal mast cells (RPMC). Moreover, BGE inhibited the IL-4 and TNF-alpha mRNA induction by PMA and A23187 in human leukemia mast cells, HMC-1. Taken together, these results suggest that anti-allergic action of BGE may be due to the inhibition of histamine release and cytokine gene expression in the mast cells.
cDNA of buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench) was isolated from immature seeds harvested 14 days after pollination. Two genes, designated FA02 and FA18, were found to encode legumin-like proteins and were expressed during seed development. The deduced amino acid sequence of FA02 was identical to the N-terminal amino acid domain of BW24KD, which was believed to be a major buckwheat allergen (Urisu, A.; Kondo, Y.; Morita, Y.; Yagi, E.; Tsuruta, M.; Yasaki, T.; Yamada, K.; Kuzuya, H.; Suzuki, M.; Titani, K.; Kurosawa, K. Isolation and characterization of a major allergen in buckwheat seeds. In Current Advances in Buckwheat Research; Shinshu University Press: Matsumoto, Japan, 1995; pp 965--974). It was predicted that FA02 would be cleaved to generate two separate components, a 41.3 kDa alpha-subunit and a 21 kDa beta-subunit. Antiserum was raised against the deduced FA02 beta-subunit, and immunoblotting of total protein from buckwheat seeds (F. esculentum M. and Fagopyrum tartaricum Gaertn.) revealed that several groups of proteins reacted with the antiserum. Polypeptides in the 23--25 kDa range displayed the greatest reactivity.
A cDNA corresponding to 1-Cys peroxiredoxin, an evolutionarily conserved thiol-specific antioxidant enzyme, was isolated from buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench), a dicotyledonous plant species belonging to the Polygonaceae family. The cDNA, which we have designated as FePer1, contains a major open reading frame capable of encoding a polypeptide of 219 residues with a predicted molecular mass of 24.3kDa. The deduced primary structure of FePer1 polypeptide shows a high level (about 70%) of sequence homology to other recently identified plant 1-Cys peroxiredoxins. FePer1 also exhibits a significant level of sequence similarity to non-plant 1-Cys peroxiredoxins, sharing 52 and 42% identities with mammalian and fungal 1-Cys peroxiredoxins, respectively. As for all 1-Cys peroxiredoxins identified from various organisms, the amino acid sequence proposed to constitute the active site of the enzyme is highly conserved in FePer1 polypeptide. The gene corresponding to FePer1 cDNA is a single-copy gene in the buckwheat genome. Its expression is regulated in a seed-specific and temporal manner during seed development. FePer1 gene is induced transiently for a short period immediately after seed imbibition.
By a series of conventional chromatographic procedures we have purified from whole-cell extracts of Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast transcription factor IID (TFIID), which functionally substitutes for human TFIID in a complementation assay comprised of the adenovirus type 2 major late promoter and HeLa cell-derived RNA polymerase II, transcription factors IIA, IIB, and IIE. Similar to its human counterpart, yeast TFIID also exhibited specific binding to the adenovirus type 2 major late promoter TATA element, as shown by both DNase I footprinting and gel mobility shift assays. NaDodSO4/PAGE analyses showed that a 27-kDa polypeptide coeluted with TFIID complementing activity through each chromatographic step. In agreement with this result and also suggesting that the native protein is a monomer, gel-filtration experiments indicated a molecular mass of 28 kDa for TFIID under nondenaturing conditions. That the 27-kDa polypeptide represented TFIID was further demonstrated by the ability of an HPLC-purified protein to bind specifically after renaturation to the adenovirus type 2 major late promoter TATA sequence.
Highland barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum) is a key crop of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, renowned for its nutritional value and exceptional adaptability to high-altitude environments. Induced mutagenesis offers a powerful approach to developing new crop varieties and elucidating the genetic basis of functional traits. In this study, nitrogen ion beam implantation was employed to induce mutations in the highland barley cultivar Kunlun 14 (K14), generating 71 novel mutation materials and enriching the genetic resources for barley breeding. Phenotypic trait correlation analysis identified two mutation lines exhibiting significant variations: E8-38 with highly increased 1000-grain weight, and D7-67 displaying a two-row spike phenotype. Comparative transcriptomic analysis was applied to the above two mutation materials. It was revealed that the high 1000-grain weight of E8-38 was driven by synergistic regulation of phytohormone signaling, metabolic pathways, and epigenetic modifications, particularly the upregulation of the cytokinins signaling pathway and starch metabolism genes. In D7-67, the two-rowed spike phenotype was underpinned by the upregulation of VRS1 genes. Adaptive mechanisms to high-altitude environments were investigated, revealing upregulation of PAL and 4CL genes in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, which enhances UV resistance and antioxidant capacity. Additionally, optimization of the photosynthetic pathway may contribute to acclimation under harsh stress conditions. Through PPI analysis, BZIP transcription factors were found to regulate downstream genes, facilitating adaptation to light changes and oxidative stress. Nitrogen ion beam implantation was demonstrated to be an efficiency method to introduce mutation on the highland barley, generating a set of mutation materials with a wide range of genetic variations. Through comparative transcriptomic analysis, this study elucidates the molecular basis underlying the 1000-grain weight and spike-type mutants, as well as the adaptive mechanisms enabling highland barley to thrive in high-altitude environments. These findings provide critical insights into the genetic and molecular mechanisms driving high-yield and stress-resilient traits in highland barley.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is an important cereal crop with diverse uses, including animal feed, beer brewing, and food production. Grain size plays a crucial role in determining grain weight and quality, which is one of the key breeding objectives in response to market and industry demands. However, the molecular mechanisms of grain size in barley are still poorly understood. In this study, 250 barley accessions were evaluated for key grain size traits, including thousand grain weight (TGW), grain length (GL), grain width (GW), grain length to width ratio (GLWR), grain area (GA) and grain perimeter (GP) across a two-year period. A total of 369 significant Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) significantly associated with the six grain traits were detected. Among these SNPs, 30 were continuously detected in different years. Additionally, two accessions (ZQ25 and GK5) whose grain size significantly differed were selected for transcriptome analysis. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified at two time points: 3,733 at 21 days post anthesis (DPA) and 4,396 at 28 DPA. These DEGs were enriched mainly in photosynthesis-antenna proteins, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and flavonoid biosynthesis. Furthermore, by integrating a genome-wide association study (GWAS) and RNA-seq, we identified 25 candidate genes involved primarily in various transcription factors, phytohormones, and sugar metabolism pathways. These results provide valuable information for grain size-related gene cloning and abundant molecular data for the breeding of new high yield varieties of barley in the future.
Salt stress is limiting barley growth, development, and production. Transcription factors (TFs) play a critical role in plant responses to salt stress by modulating gene expression Salinity stress increases over time due to climate change. It represents a major constraint to barley growth, development, and yield. Enhancing salt tolerance to withstand salt stress is crucial for ensuring global food security. We discussed transcription factors (TFs) that play a key role in responding to salt stress by modulating downstream genes and facilitating alterations in physiological and biochemical pathways. TF families strongly associated with the bZIP, DREB, NAC, bHLH, MYB, ERF, and WRKY are particularly involved in regulating ion homeostasis, osmotic adjustment, and signaling under stressful conditions. These discoveries establish a platform for generating salt-tolerant barley genotypes utilizing modern biotechnological methods. CRISPR/Cas and virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) are broadly used tools to investigate gene function by knocking out or silencing target genes under salt stress. Furthermore, integrating the existing knowledge and foundations of TFs could yield sustainable, salt-resistant barley genotypes for agriculture. Multi-omics and bioinformatics have accelerated the identification of salt-responsive genes and TFs. The review recorded the recent progress in the molecular mechanisms of salinity tolerance in barley and indicates the potential of biotechnology for improving salt tolerance in barley varieties.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), a crucial cereal crop known for its resilience to harsh environmental conditions, relies on complex genetic networks to withstand abiotic stressors such as drought, salinity, and extreme temperatures. In this study, a comprehensive genome-wide identification and characterization of the NAC (NAM, ATAF, and CUC) transcription factor family in barley was conducted, revealing 26 HvNAC genes. Detailed analyses included assessments of gene structure, conserved motifs, cis-regulatory elements, chromosomal localization, and evolutionary relationships with other species. The findings demonstrated significant diversity in the physicochemical properties and structural features of HvNAC proteins, with several genes harboring stress-responsive elements linked to Abscisic acid (ABA), Methyl jasmonate (MeJA), auxin, and gibberellin pathways. Phylogenetic analysis revealed six distinct clades of NAC genes, indicating the evolutionary divergence of HvNACs from related species, such as wheat, rice, and Arabidopsis thaliana. Additionally, gene duplication events and synteny analysis highlighted the evolutionary forces shaping this gene family. The investigation of microRNA (miRNA) interactions identified miRNA164 and Hvu-miR156 as key regulators of HvNAC expression under drought stress, underscoring the functional importance of these genes in stress adaptation. Under drought and salt stress, HvNAC2 and HvNAC6 were significantly upregulated in barley roots, highlighting their key roles in stress adaptation, while leaves showed minimal expression changes. Additionally, under temperature stress, HvNAC4, HvNAC5, and HvNAC3 were upregulated in leaves during heat stress, whereas HvNAC6 and HvNAC6-C were more active in roots during cold stress, indicating tissue-specific responses to environmental conditions. This study offers valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms governing stress tolerance in barley and provides a foundation for breeding programs aimed at enhancing barley's resilience to environmental challenges.
GATA transcription factors play crucial roles in plant growth and development, especially in response to environmental stress. Although GATA genes have been studied and identified in various plants, research on these genes in barley is relatively limited. This study identified the GATA gene family and analyzed its gene structure, chromosome distribution, evolutionary analysis, and expression patterns of the HvGATAgene family in barley. The results showed that 27 HvGATA genes are unevenly distributed across seven chromosomes and divided into four subfamilies with similar structures within the same subfamily. Gene synthesis analysis revealed that HvGATA gene family has undergone significant purifying selection. It is noteworthy that the promoter regions of HvGATA genes displayed many cis-acting elements associated with stress responses and hormone regulation. Additionally, the 27 identified genes are predominantly involved in responses to inorganic substances, as indicated by the Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis. The majority of miRNAs that regulate these genes are also capable of modulating abiotic stress responses. Furthermore, expression analysis confirms that the majority of HvGATA genes participate in the regulation of abiotic stresses. In summary, this study contribute to our understanding of important role of HvGATAs in barley, providing a foundation for further exploration of gene function and target genes related to stress responses.
Although metabolites of barley grains have been analyzed, the changes in metabolite abundance and gene expression regulation mechanisms during barley grain development have not been elucidated. Here, we explore the dynamic accumulation patterns of metabolites in barley grains at six different developmental stages by analyzing high-resolution metabolomic and transcriptomic data from Huadamai6 and Huaai11. We detect 986 metabolites and 18,868 co-expressed genes. Meanwhile, we identify 1057 mQTLs associated with 553 metabolites in a double haploid (DH) population derived from these two cultivars, and integrate metabolome, transcriptome, and mQTL information to construct a global co-expression regulatory network of barley grain metabolism. Using this dataset, we excavate transcription factors and structural genes that regulate flavonoid metabolism pathway, and also reveal the complex mechanism of HvC1-1 and HvMYC-1 regulating grain color differentiation in the DH population. Our findings reveal the metabolic regulatory network of barley grains development, and provide valuable resources for future nutritional quality improvement and molecular design breeding of barley.
Our findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms that regulate N metabolism in barley and potentially other cereal crops, offering valuable perspectives for enhancing N use efficiency in agricultural practices. Efficient nitrogen (N) utilization is essential for plant growth, especially during seed development and germination. In barley (Hordeum vulgare), the asparagine synthetase gene HvASN1 is essential for nitrogen transport and storage, synthesizing asparagine, a key molecule in N recycling. The phylogenetic analysis indicates that HvASN1 clusters with Arabidopsis AtASN1 and shares high similarity with HvASN2, suggesting a conserved role in N metabolism. A detailed characterization of a ~ 500 bp HvASN1 promoter region revealed a conserved GCN-like cis-element. Transient expression assays in Nicotiana benthamiana demonstrated that the wild-type promoter significantly increases luciferase activity under dark conditions, whereas mutation of the GCN-like element reduces this activity, highlighting its role in light-responsive gene regulation. Further investigation identified the bZIP transcription factor HvbZIP53 as an activator of the HvASN1 promoter through binding to the GCN-like element. This activation is finely tuned by sucrose via a conserved upstream open reading frame (uORF) in HvbZIP53's 5' UTR, which mediates sucrose-induced repression of translation. Additionally, yeast two-hybrid assays and transient expression studies in Arabidopsis provided evidence that HvbZIP53 physically interacts with HvBLZ1, a C group bZIP factor, resulting in a synergistic enhancement of HvASN1 expression. The spatial and temporal expression analyses further revealed that HvASN1, HvbZIP53, and HvBLZ1 are co-expressed in key seed tissues during development and germination. These findings indicate a complex regulatory network integrating environmental and metabolic signals to modulate N metabolism in barley, with implications for improving N use efficiency in cereal crops.
Plant architecture is a key determinant of crop yield, and understanding the genetic basis of its regulation is crucial for crop improvement. BLADE-ON-PETIOLE (BOP) genes are known to play a fundamental role in shaping plant architecture across diverse species. In this study, we demonstrate pleiotropic effects of the barley BOP gene Uniculme4 (Cul4) on various aspects of plant architecture, including plant height, culm diameter, and grain traits. Accordingly, Cul4 is broadly expressed in different tissues and developmental stages. Comparing transcriptome profiles of cul4 mutant and wild-type plants, we uncover a novel link between Cul4 and the jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthetic pathway. Our findings demonstrate that proper Cul4 function is required to repress JA biosynthesis, with cul4 mutants exhibiting increased levels of JA and its precursor 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid. Up-regulation of WRKY and bHLH transcription factors shows JA signalling is also impacted by Cul4. Additionally, our study sheds light on the role of Cul4 in flowering time regulation, potentially through its interaction with florigen-like genes. This research enhances our understanding of the mechanisms and pathways acting downstream of BOP genes.
Alternative splicing (AS) provides flexible strategies for plants to cope with abiotic stress, but how AS regulates drought response in barley (Hordeum vulgare) remains poorly understood. This study investigates the genome-wide AS patterns in drought-sensitive (Baudin) and tolerant barley genotypes (Tadmor, EC_S1) during drought and recovery stages. Baudin showed maximal AS events during drought, while tolerant genotypes activated AS predominantly during recovery. Drought-tolerant EC_S1 exhibited differential AS events enriched in metabolic pathways, amino acid biosynthesis, and chromatin remodeling. WGCNA analysis identified eight modules linked to stomatal dynamics, biomass, and ROS scavenging, with the 'MEmidnightblue' module (related to stoma and ROS regulation) being drought-responsive. A drought-inducible splice variant, LHCA4.2b, was exclusively identified in tolerant genotypes. Silencing HvLHCA4.2a (lhca4.2a) and dual-silencing HvLHCA4.2a + b (lhca4.2a + b) drastically impaired drought tolerance, manifesting as wilting, accelerated water loss, reduced biomass, and elevated electrolyte leakage, coupled with chlorophyll degradation, ROS overaccumulation, and malondialdehyde overproduction. Enhanced stress sensitivity in lhca4.2a + b versus lhca4.2a underscores HvLHCA4.2b's critical role. Additionally, lhca4.2a + b displayed ABA-insensitive stomata with unaltered stomatal conductance under drought or exogenous ABA, implicating LHCA4.2b in ABA signaling. Mechanistically, AS-generated LHCA4.2b isoform enhances PSI-LHCI super-complex stability through strengthened interaction interfaces with LHCA1, thereby improving energy transfer efficiency and reducing ROS generation. This isoform simultaneously coordinates ABA signaling by elevating ABF1/ABF3 transcription factors while suppressing ABI3/ABI4/ABI5 repressors, collectively modulating stomatal closure and ROS homeostasis. Our findings elucidate AS-mediated drought adaptation mechanisms in barley and highlight HvLHCA4.2b as a potential target for breeding drought-tolerant cultivars.
In response to environmental changes, plants continuously make architectural changes in order to optimize their growth and development. The regulation of plant branching, influenced by environmental conditions and affecting hormone balance and gene expression, is crucial for agronomic purposes due to its direct correlation with yield. Strigolactones (SL), the youngest class of phytohormones, function to shape the architecture of plants by inhibiting axillary outgrowth. Barley plants harboring the mutation in the HvDWARF14 (HvD14) gene, which encodes the SL-specific receptor, produce almost twice as many tillers as wild-type (WT) Sebastian plants. Here, through hormone profiling and comparison of transcriptomic and proteomic changes between 2- and 4-week-old plants of WT and hvd14 genotypes, we elucidate a regulatory mechanism that might affect the tillering of SL-insensitive plants. The analysis showed statistically significant increased cytokinin content and decreased auxin and abscisic acid content in 'bushy' hvd14 compared to WT, which aligns with the commonly known actions of these hormones regarding branching regulation. Further, transcriptomic and proteomic analysis revealed a set of differentially expressed genes (DEG) and abundant proteins (DAP), among which 11.6% and 14.6% were associated with phytohormone-related processes, respectively. Bioinformatics analyses then identified a series of potential SL-dependent transcription factors (TF), which may control the differences observed in the hvd14 transcriptome and proteome. Comparison to available Arabidopsis thaliana data implicates a sub-selection of these TF as being involved in the transduction of SL signal in both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants.
Lactobacillus plantarum fermented barley extract (LFBE) has a potent anti-obesity effect on high-fat-diet fed (HFD) obese rats. However, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Herein, we investigated the anti-obesity effect and mechanism of LFBE in 3 T3-L1 preadipocytes and HFD-induced obese rats. LFBE significantly inhibited lipid accumulation by decreasing the expression of adipogenesis-related transcription factors, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR-γ) and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP-α) in differentiated 3 T3-L1 cells. The expression levels of adiponectin, acetyl CoA carboxylase (ACC), and fatty acid synthase (FAS) were also suppressed in differentiated three T3-L1 cells. Administration of LFBE significantly reduced insulin resistance, blood lipid profiles, and improved metabolic hormones in HFD-induced obese rats. Furthermore, the serum pro-inflammatory cytokines including CRP, IL-6, TNFα, and INFγ in HFD-induced obese rats were significantly decreased after LFBE administration. LFBE treatment also attenuated oxidative stress in HFD-induced obese rats by decreasing MDA production and restoring SOD and catalase enzymatic activity. Administration of LFBE could modulate gut microbiota imbalance by increasing the abundance of Lactobacillus and Ruminococcaceae UCG-014 and decreasing Prevotella-9 at the genus level and restoring intestinal barrier dysfunction in HFD-induced obesity rats. Taken together, our study indicated that LFBE is a promising candidate for treating obesity through multiple mechanisms.
The female germline of flowering plants develops within a niche of sporophytic (somatic) ovule cells, also referred to as the nucellus. How niche cells maintain their own somatic developmental programme, yet support the development of adjoining germline cells, remains largely unknown. Here we report that MADS31, a conserved MADS-box transcription factor from the B-sister subclass, is a potent regulator of niche cell identity. In barley, MADS31 is preferentially expressed in nucellar cells directly adjoining the germline, and loss-of-function mads31 mutants exhibit deformed and disorganized nucellar cells, leading to impaired germline development and partial female sterility. Remarkably similar phenotypes are observed in mads31 mutants in wheat, suggesting functional conservation within the Triticeae tribe. Molecular assays indicate that MADS31 encodes a potent transcriptional repressor, targeting genes in the ovule that are normally active in the seed. One prominent target of MADS31 is NRPD4b, a seed-expressed component of RNA polymerase IV/V that is involved in epigenetic regulation. NRPD4b is directly repressed by MADS31 in vivo and is derepressed in mads31 ovules, while overexpression of NRPD4b recapitulates the mads31 ovule phenotype. Thus, repression of NRPD4b by MADS31 is required to maintain ovule niche functionality. Our findings reveal a new mechanism by which somatic ovule tissues maintain their identity and support germline development before transitioning to the post-fertilization programme.
Lateral organ boundaries (LOB) domain (LBD) genes encode a family of transcription factors ubiquitous in higher plants, playing crucial roles in the growth, development, and stress responses.
Betaone is a variety of barley developed by the Korea Rural Development Administration. This study investigated the anti-osteoporosis effects of Betaone barley water extract (B1W) on ovariectomy (OVX)-induced bone loss in mice. To elucidate its mechanism, the effect of B1W on osteoclasts was assessed by measuring the protein expression of nuclear factor-activated T cells c1 (NFATc1), the expression of genes involved in osteoclast differentiation, and bone pit assays. B1W (300 mg/kg/day) significantly increased bone mineral density and bone volume fraction, but decreased trabecular separation compared to the OVX group. B1W also showed a trend towards decreasing serum C-telopeptide of collagen type 1 levels in OVX mice. Additionally, B1W reduced the expression of NFATc1 and downregulated the mRNA expression levels of various marker genes such as c-Fos, tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP), cathepsin K (CTSK), dendritic cell-specific transmembrane protein (DC-STAMP), and osteoclast-associated Ig-like receptor (OSCAR). B1W reduced the osteoclast activity in the receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL)-treated osteoclasts by inhibiting the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. Based on the results, B1W can be considered a useful candidate for a therapeutic agent for treating conditions of bone loss and could also be used as an ingredient in health supplements.
Ca We examined the expression patterns of 4246 genes that had previously been shown to be differentially expressed upon H Our study indicates that about 70% of the H
We applied a systems biology approach to gain a deep insight into the regulatory mechanisms of barley (Hordeum vulgare ) under drought and waterlogging stress conditions. To identify informative models related to stress conditions, we constructed meta-analysis and two distinct weighted gene co-expression networks. We then performed module trait association analyses. Additionally, we conducted functional enrichment analysis of significant modules to shed light on the biological performance of underlying genes in the two contrasting stresses. In the next step, we inferred the gene regulatory networks between top hub genes of significant modules, kinases, and transcription factors (TFs) using a machine learning algorithm. Our results showed that at power=10, the scale-free topology fitting index (R2) was higher than 0.8 and the connectivity mean became stable. We identified 31 co-expressed gene modules in barley, with 13 and 14 modules demonstrating significant associations with drought and waterlogging stress, respectively. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that these stress-responsive modules are involved in critical processes, including ADP-rybosylation factors (ARF) protein signal transduction, ethylene-induced autophagy, and phosphoric ester hydrolase activity. Specific TFs and kinases, such as C2C2-GATA, HB-BELL, and MADS-MIKC, were identified as key regulators under these stress conditions. Furthermore, certain TFs and kinases established unique connections with hub genes in response to waterlogging and drought conditions. These findings enhance our understanding of the molecular networks that modulate barley's response to drought and waterlogging stresses, offering insights into the regulatory mechanisms essential for stress adaptation.
Phytochromes are essential photoreceptors in plants that sense red and far-red light, playing a vital role in regulating plant growth and development through light signal transduction. Despite extensive research on phytochromes in model plants like
The awn is a bristle-like extension from the tip of the lemma in grasses. In barley, the predominant cultivars possess long awns that contribute to grain yield and quality through photosynthesis. In addition, various awn morphological mutants are available in barley, rendering it a useful cereal crop to investigate the mechanims of awn development. Here, we identified the gene causative of the short and crooked awn (sca) mutant, which exhibits a short and curved awn phenotype. Intercrossing experiments revealed that the sca mutant induced in the Japanese cultivar (cv.) "Akashinriki" is allelic to the independently isolated moderately short-awn mutant breviaristatum-a (ari-a). Map-based cloning and sequencing revealed that SCA encodes the Polycomb group-associated protein EMBRYONIC FLOWER 1. We found that SCA affects awn development through the promotion of cell proliferation, elongation, and cell wall synthesis. RNA sequencing of cv. Bowman backcross-derived near-isogenic lines of sca and ari-a6 alleles showed that SCA is directly or indirectly involved in promoting the expression of genes related to awn development. Additionally, SCA represses various transcription factors essential for floral organ development and plant architecture, such as MADS-box and Knotted1-like homeobox genes. Notably, the repression of the C-class MADS-box gene HvMADS58 by SCA in awns is associated with the accumulation of the repressive histone modification H3K27me3. These findings highlight the potential role of SCA-mediated gene regulation, including histone modification, as a novel pathway in barley awn development.
Blue barley grain pigmentation results from anthocyanin accumulation in the aleurone layer. Anthocyanins are known for their beneficial effects on human health. The gene encoding the MYELOCYTOMATOSIS 2 (MYC2) transcription factor is potentially responsible for the blue coloration of the aleurone. In non-pigmented barley, a single nucleotide insertion in this gene causes a frameshift mutation with a premature stop codon. It was hypothesized that restoring the
The Myeloblastosis related (MYB) family is one of the most widely distributed transcription factor families in plants and plays a significant role in plant growth and development, hormone signal transduction, and stress response. There are many reports on MYB family species, but the research on Qingke is still limited. This study used comparative genomics methods to analyze gene and protein structure, protein physicochemical properties, chromosome localization, and evolution. A bioinformatics approach was used to systematically analyze the HvMYB gene family. At the milk stage, soft dough stage, and mature stage, White and Blue Qingke grains were selected for RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), among which two proteins interacted (HvMYB and HvMYC). The expression of this gene family was analyzed through RNA-seq, and the expression levels of A total of 92 Qingke
Overexpression of HvbHLH132 from hulless barley impairs in chilling and freezing tolerance at the seedlings stage in Arabidopsis thaliana The basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors (TF) are ubiquitously existed in eukaryote and play crucial roles in numerous biological processes. However, the characterization of their members and functions in hulless barley remains limited. Here, we conducted a genome-wide identification of the HvbHLH gene family and assessed the role of HvbHLH132 in cold stress tolerance. We identified 141 HvbHLH genes, which were categorized into twelve subfamilies. Subcellular localization predictions indicated that the majority of HvbHLH proteins were localized in the nucleus. cis-Acting element analysis revealed that the promoter regions of the HvbHLH family contain diverse elements associated with various biological processes. Expression profiling of the 141 HvbHLH genes in two extreme varieties revealed that HvbHLH132 was significantly induced and exhibited substantial differential expression under cold stress. Analyses of subcellular localization and transactivation activity confirmed that HvbHLH132 specifically localized in the nucleus and contributed to transcriptional activation. Furthermore, overexpression of HvbHLH132 in Arabidopsis resulted in impaired chilling and freezing tolerance at the seedling stage, leading to biochemical changes unfavorable for freezing stress. Additionally, the expression of some cold-responsive genes (COR) genes was significantly less induced compared to wild type under freezing stress. This study provides comprehensive insight into the HvbHLH gene family and reveals a critical role of HvbHLH132 in regulating cold tolerance in plants.
Drought is one of the most devastating abiotic stresses worldwide, which severely limits crop yield. Tibetan wild barley is a treasure trove of useful genes for crop improvement including drought tolerance. Here, we detected large-scale changes of gene expression in response to drought stress with a substantial difference among contrasting Tibetan barley genotypes XZ5 (drought-tolerant), XZ54 (drought-sensitive) and cv. Tadmor (drought-tolerant). Drought stress led to upregulations of 142 genes involved in transcription, metabolism, protein synthesis, stress defense, transport and signal transduction in XZ5, but those genes were down-regulated or unchanged in XZ54 and Tadmor. We identified and functionally characterized a novel multiple organellar RNA editing factors 8 (HvMORF8), which was up-regulated by drought stress in XZ5, but unchanged in XZ54 and Tadmor under drought stress. Phylogenetic analysis showed that orthologues of HvMORF8 can be traced back to the closest gymnosperm species such as Cycas micholitzii, implicating a potential evolutionary origin for MORF8 from a common ancestor in early seed plants. Virus-induced HvMORF8 silencing in XZ5 led to hypersensitivity to drought stress, demonstrating it is a positive regulator of drought tolerance in barley. RNA sequencing of BSMV:HvMORF8 and control plants reveals that silencing of HvMORF8 suppresses genes involved in osmolytes transport, cell wall modification and antioxidants, resulting in water metabolism disorder and overaccumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) under drought stress. Therefore, we propose HvMORF8-mediated regulatory drought tolerance mechanisms at transcriptomic level in XZ5, providing new insight into the genetic basis of plastid RNA editing function of HvMORF8 for barley drought tolerance.
Genome-wide identification and comparative gene-family analyses have commonly been performed to investigate species-specific evolution linked to various traits and molecular pathways. However, most previous studies have been limited to gene screening in a single reference genome, failing to account for the gene presence/absence variations (gPAVs) in a species. Here, we propose an innovative pangenome-based approach for gene-family analyses based on orthologous gene groups (OGGs). Using the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor family in barley as an example, we identified 161-176 bHLHs in 20 barley genomes, which can be classified into 201 OGGs. These 201 OGGs were further classified into 140 core, 12 softcore, 29 shell, and 20 line-specific/cloud bHLHs, revealing the complete profile of bHLH genes in barley. Using a genome-scanning approach, we overcame the genome annotation bias and identified an average of 1.5 un-annotated core bHLHs per barley genome. We found that whole-genome/segmental duplicates are predominant mechanisms contributing to the expansion of most core/softcore bHLHs, whereas dispensable bHLHs are more likely to result from small-scale duplication events. Interestingly, we noticed that the dispensable bHLHs tend to be enriched in the specific subfamilies SF13, SF27, and SF28, implying the potentially biased expansion of specific bHLHs in barley. We found that 50% of the bHLHs contain at least 1 intact transposon element (TE) within the 2-kb upstream-to-downstream region. bHLHs with copy-number variations (CNVs) have 1.48 TEs on average, significantly more than core bHLHs without CNVs (1.36), supporting a potential role of TEs in bHLH expansion. Analyses of selection pressure showed that dispensable bHLHs have experienced clear relaxation of selection compared with core bHLHs, consistent with their conservation patterns. We also integrated the pangenome data with recently available barley pantranscriptome data from 5 tissues and discovered apparent transcriptional divergence within and across bHLH subfamilies. We conclude that pangenome-based gene-family analyses can better describe the previously untapped, genuine evolutionary status of bHLHs and provide novel insights into bHLH evolution in barley. We expect that this study will inspire similar analyses in many other gene families and species.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is widely cultivated across diverse soil types, including acidic soils where aluminum (Al) toxicity is the major limiting factor. The relative Al sensitivity of barley highlights the need for a deeper understanding of early molecular responses in root tip (the primary target of Al toxicity) to develop Al-tolerant cultivars. Integrative N
Plant A/T-rich protein and zinc-binding protein (PLATZ) transcription factors are pivotal regulators in various aspects of plant biology, including growth, development, and responses to environmental stresses. While PLATZ genes have been extensively studied and functionally characterized in various plants, limited information is available for these genes in barley. Here, we discovered a total of 11 PLATZ genes distributed across seven chromosomes in barley. Based on phylogenetic and conserved motif analysis, we classified PLATZ into five subfamilies, comprising 3, 1, 2, 1 and 4 genes, respectively. Analysis of gene structure demonstrated that these 11 HvPLATZ genes typically possessed two to four exons. Most HvPLATZ genes were found to possess at least one ABRE cis-element in their promoter regions, and a few of them also contained LTR, CAT-box, MRE, and DRE cis-elements. Then, we conducted an exploration of the expression patterns of HvPLATZs, which displayed notable differences across various tissues and in response to abiotic stresses. Functional analysis of HvPLATZ6 and HvPLATZ8 in yeast cells showed that they may be involved in drought tolerance. Additionally, we constructed a regulatory network including miRNA-targeted gene predictions and identified two miRNAs targeting two HvPLATZs, such as hvu-miR5053 and hvu-miR6184 targeting HvPLATZ2, hvu-miR6184 targeting HvPLATZ10. In summary, these findings provide valuable insights for future functional verification of HvPLATZs and contribute to a deeper understanding of the role of HvPLATZs in response to stress conditions in barley.
UV radiation is a major factor contributing to DNA damage in skin cells, including stem cells and mesenchymal stem cells, leading to the depletion of these crucial cells. This study examined whether a mixture of Indian gooseberry and barley sprout (IB) could inhibit UVB irradiation and 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX)-induced photoaging and oxidative stress in the skin using HaCaT, Hs27, and B16F10 cells. The moisturizing-related factors, the collagen synthesis-related c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/c-Fos/c-Jun/matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) pathway, and the melanogenesis-related cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)/protein kinase A (PKA)/cAMP-responsive binding protein (CREB)/melanocyte inducing transcription factor (MITF)/tyrosinase-related protein (TRP)/tyrosinase activation pathways were analyzed The IB complex increased the hyaluronic acid and sphingomyelin levels and the collagenase inhibitory activity, enhanced hydration-related factors, including collagen, These findings suggest that the IB complex has the potential to serve as a safeguard, shielding the skin from UVB radiation-induced photo-damage.
Barley reproductive fitness and efficient heat stress adaptation requires the activity of TFIIS, the elongation cofactor of RNAPII. Regulation of transcriptional machinery and its adaptive role under different stress conditions are studied extensively in the dicot model plant Arabidopsis, but our knowledge on monocot species remains elusive. TFIIS is an RNA polymerase II-associated transcription elongation cofactor. Previously, it was shown that TFIIS ensures efficient transcription elongation that is necessary for heat stress survival in A. thaliana. However, the function of TFIIS has not been analysed in monocots. In the present work, we have generated and studied independent tfIIs-crispr-mutant barley lines. We show that TFIIS is needed for reproductive development and heat stress survival in barley. The molecular basis of HS-sensitivity of tfIIs mutants is the retarded expression of heat stress protein transcripts, which leads to late accumulation of HSP chaperones, enhanced proteotoxicity and ultimately to lethality. We also show that TFIIS is transcriptionally regulated in response to heat, supporting a conserved adaptive function of these control elements for plant thermal adaptation. In sum, our results are a step forward for the better understanding of transcriptional machinery regulation in monocot crops.
Plant AT-rich sequence and zinc-binding proteins (PLATZs) are a novel category of plant-specific transcription factors involved in growth, development, and abiotic stress responses. However, the
To observe the effect of moxibustion with seed-size moxa cones on the Toll-like receptor 4(TLR4)/myeloid differentiation factor 88(MyD88)/nuclear transcription factor-κB(NF-κB) signaling pathway in mice with ulcerative colitis(UC), so as to explore the therapeutic mechanism of moxibustion with seed-size moxa cones on colonic injury in UC. Forty male C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into blank group, model group, moxibustion group, and western medicine group, with 10 mice in each group. The UC mouse model was established by 3% DSS solution by free drinking for 7 consecutive days. Mice in the moxibustion group were treated with seed-size moxa cones at "Zhongwan"(CV12), "Tianshu"(ST25) and "Shangjuxu"(ST37), 3 moxa cones per point, with each cone applied for approximately 30 s, while mice in the western medicine group were orally administered with 300 mg/kg mesalazine solution, which were both conducted once a day for 7 consecutive days. The general condition of mice was observed every 2 days, and the disease activity index (DAI) score was calculated. HE staining was used to observe the morphology of colonic tissue in mice. ELISA was used to detect the serum interleukin(IL)-1β, tumor necrosis factor(TNF)-α, IL-6, and IL-8 contents. Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the positive expression of TLR4 and MyD88 in colonic tissue of mice. Real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR was used to detect the expression levels of TLR4, MyD88, and NF-κB p65 mRNAs in colonic tissue. Compared with the blank group, varying degrees of soft or watery stools were observed, colon length and body weight were decreased( Moxibustion with seed-size moxa cones may alleviate colonic injury in UC mice by regulating the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway and reducing the release of inflammatory factors.
The endogenous stress metabolite β-aminobutyric acid (BABA) primes plants for enhanced resistance against abiotic and biotic stress by activating a complex phytohormone signaling network that includes abscisic acid (ABA), jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA), and ethylene (ET). In this study, through stringent filtering, we identify 14 master regulatory transcription factors (TFs) from the DOF, AHL, and ERF families that potentially regulate the biosynthesis and signaling of these phytohormones. Transcriptional analysis of BABA-treated
Squamosa promoter-binding protein-like (SPL) is a plant-specific transcription factor that is widely involved in the regulation of plant growth and development, including flower and grain development, stress responses, and secondary metabolite synthesis. However, this gene family has not been comprehensively evaluated in barley, the most adaptable cereal crop with a high nutritional value. In this study, a total of 15 HvSPL genes were identified based on the Hordeum vulgare genome. These genes were named HvSPL1 to HvSPL15 based on the chromosomal distribution of the HvSPL genes and were divided into seven groups (I, II, III, V, VI, VII, and VIII) based on the phylogenetic tree analysis. Chromosomal localization revealed one pair of tandem duplicated genes and one pair of segmental duplicated genes. The HvSPL genes exhibited the highest collinearity with the monocotyledonous plant, Zea mays (27 pairs), followed by Oryza sativa (18 pairs), Sorghum bicolor (16 pairs), and Arabidopsis thaliana (3 pairs), and the fewest homologous genes with Solanum lycopersicum (1 pair). The distribution of the HvSPL genes in the evolutionary tree was relatively scattered, and HvSPL proteins tended to cluster with SPL proteins from Z. mays and O. sativa, indicating a close relationship between HvSPL and SPL proteins from monocotyledonous plants. Finally, the spatial and temporal expression patterns of the 14 HvSPL genes from different subfamilies were determined using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Based on the results, the HvSPL gene family exhibited tissue-specific expression and played a regulatory role in grain development and abiotic stress. HvSPL genes are highly expressed in various tissues during seed development. The expression levels of HvSPL genes under the six abiotic stress conditions indicated that many genes responded to stress, especially HvSPL8, which exhibited high expression under multiple stress conditions, thereby warranting further attention. In this study, 15 SPL gene family members were identified in the genome of Hordeum vulgare, and the phylogenetic relationships, gene structure, replication events, gene expression, and potential roles of these genes in millet development were studied. Our findings lay the foundation for exploring the HvSPL genes and performing molecular breeding of barley.
The advanced model of floral morphogenesis is based largely on data from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa), but this process is less well understood in the Triticeae. Here, we investigated a sterile barley (Hordeum vulgare) mutant with malformed floral organs (designated mfo1), of which the paleae, lodicules, and stamens in each floret were all converted into lemma-like organs, and the ovary was abnormally shaped. Combining bulked-segregant analysis, whole-genome resequencing, and TILLING approaches, the mfo1 mutant was attributed to loss-of-function mutations in the MADS-box transcription factor gene HvAGL6, a key regulator in the ABCDE floral morphogenesis model. Through transcriptomic analysis between young inflorescences of wild-type and mfo1 plants, 380 genes were identified as differentially expressed, most of which function in DNA binding, protein dimerization, cell differentiation, or meristem determinacy. Regulatory pathway enrichment showed HvAGL6 associates with transcriptional abundance of many MADS-box genes, including the B-class gene HvMADS4. Mutants with deficiency in HvMADS4 exhibited the conversion of stamens into supernumerary pistils, producing multiple ovaries resembling the completely sterile multiple ovaries 3.h (mov3.h) mutant. These findings demonstrate that the regulatory model of floral morphogenesis is conserved across plant species and provides insights into the interactions between HvAGL6 and other MADS-box regulators.
Currently, there are no reports on the HvbHLH gene family in the recent barley genome (Morex_V3). Furthermore, the structural genes related to anthocyanin synthesis that interact with HvANT2 have yet to be fully identified. In this study, a bioinformatics approach was used to systematically analyze the HvbHLH gene family. The expression of this gene family was analyzed through RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and the gene with the most significant expression level, The study identified 161 bHLH genes, designated as
The aim of current study was to identify closely linked QTLs and candidate genes related to germination indices under control, salinity and drought conditions in barley. A total of nine (a major), 28 (eight major) and 34 (five major) closely linked QTLs were mapped on the seven chromosomes in response to control, drought and salinity conditions using genome-wide composite interval mapping, respectively. The major QTLs can be used in marker-assisted selection (MAS) projects to increase tolerance to drought and salinity stresses during the germination. Overall, 422 unique candidate genes were associated with most major QTLs. Moreover, gene ontology analysis showed that candidate genes mostly involved in biological process related to signal transduction and response to stimulus in the pathway of resistance to drought and salinity stresses. Also, the protein-protein interaction network was identified 10 genes. Furthermore, 10 genes were associated with receptor-like kinase family. In addition, 16 transcription factors were detected. Three transcription factors including B3, bHLH, and FAR1 had the most encoding genes. Totally, 60 microRNAs were traced to regulate the target genes. Finally, the key genes are a suitable and reliable source for future studies to improve resistance to abiotic stress during the germination of barley.
Strigolactones (SLs) are plant hormones that play a crucial role in regulating various aspects of plant architecture, such as shoot and root branching. However, the knowledge of SL-responsive genes and transcription factors (TFs) that control the shaping of plant architecture remains elusive. Here, transcriptomic analysis was conducted using the SL-insensitive barley mutant hvd14.d (carried mutation in SL receptor DWARF14, HvD14) and its wild-type (WT) to unravel the differences in gene expression separately in root and shoot tissues. This approach enabled us to select more than six thousand SL-dependent genes that were exclusive to each studied organ or not tissue-specific. The data obtained, along with in silico analyses, found several TFs that exhibited changed expression between the analyzed genotypes and that recognized binding sites in promoters of other identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs). In total, 28 TFs that recognize motifs over-represented in DEG promoters were identified. Moreover, nearly half of the identified TFs were connected in a single network of known and predicted interactions, highlighting the complexity and multidimensionality of SL-related signalling in barley. Finally, the SL control on the expression of one of the identified TFs in HvD14- and dose-dependent manners was proved. Obtained results bring us closer to understanding the signalling pathways regulating SL-dependent plant development.
The heat stress transcription factor HSFA2e regulates both temperature and drought response via hormonal and secondary metabolism alterations. High temperature and drought are the primary yield-limiting environmental constraints for staple food crops. Heat shock transcription factors (HSF) terminally regulate the plant abiotic stress responses to maintain growth and development under extreme environmental conditions. HSF genes of subclass A2 predominantly express under heat stress (HS) and activate the transcriptional cascade of defense-related genes. In this study, a highly heat-inducible HSF, HvHSFA2e was constitutively expressed in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) to investigate its role in abiotic stress response and plant development. Transgenic barley plants displayed enhanced heat and drought tolerance in terms of increased chlorophyll content, improved membrane stability, reduced lipid peroxidation, and less accumulation of ROS in comparison to wild-type (WT) plants. Transcriptome analysis revealed that HvHSFA2e positively regulates the expression of abiotic stress-related genes encoding HSFs, HSPs, and enzymatic antioxidants, contributing to improved stress tolerance in transgenic plants. The major genes of ABA biosynthesis pathway, flavonoid, and terpene metabolism were also upregulated in transgenics. Our findings show that HvHSFA2e-mediated upregulation of heat-responsive genes, modulation in ABA and flavonoid biosynthesis pathways enhance drought and heat stress tolerance.
The spikelet is the unit component of the spike and the site of grain production in Triticeae crops. Two new studies revealed that plant-specific transcription factors ALOG1 and PDB1 participate in modulating spikelet number and flowering time in barley and wheat.
Fusarium crown rot (FCR) caused by Fusarium pseudograminearum poses a significant threat to wheat production in the Huang-Huai-Hai region of China. However, the pathogenic mechanism of F. pseudograminearum is still poorly understood. Zn
Zinc finger-homeodomain transcription factors (ZF-HDs) are pivotal in regulating plant growth, development, and diverse stress responses. In this study, we found 8
Inflorescence architecture and crop productivity are often tightly coupled in our major cereal crops. However, the underlying genetic mechanisms controlling cereal inflorescence development remain poorly understood. Here, we identified recessive alleles of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) HvALOG1 (Arabidopsis thaliana LSH1 and Oryza G1) that produce non-canonical extra spikelets and fused glumes abaxially to the central spikelet from the upper-mid portion until the tip of the inflorescence. Notably, we found that HvALOG1 exhibits a boundary-specific expression pattern that specifically excludes reproductive meristems, implying the involvement of previously proposed localized signaling centers for branch regulation. Importantly, during early spikelet formation, non-cell-autonomous signals associated with HvALOG1 expression may specify spikelet meristem determinacy, while boundary formation of floret organs appears to be coordinated in a cell-autonomous manner. Moreover, barley ALOG family members synergistically modulate inflorescence morphology, with HvALOG1 predominantly governing meristem maintenance and floral organ development. We further propose that spatiotemporal redundancies of expressed HvALOG members specifically in the basal inflorescence may be accountable for proper patterning of spikelet formation in mutant plants. Our research offers new perspectives on regulatory signaling roles of ALOG transcription factors during the development of reproductive meristems in cereal inflorescences.
Root architectural traits play pivotal roles in plant adaptation to drought stress, and hence they are considered promising targets in breeding programs. Here, we phenotyped eight root architecture traits in response to well-watered and drought stress conditions in 200 spring barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) inbred lines over two consecutive field seasons. Root architecture traits were less developed under drought in both seasons when compared with control treatments. Genetic variation in root architectural traits was dissected employing a genome-wide association study (GWAS) coupled with linkage disequilibrium mapping. GWAS uncovered a total of 186 significant single nucleotide polymorphism-trait associations for eight root traits under control, drought, and drought-related indices. Of these, a few loci for root traits were detected on chromosomes 3 and 5, which co-located with QTL identified in previous studies. Interestingly, 13 loci showed simultaneou associations with multiple root traits under drought and drought-related indices. These loci harbored candidate genes, which included a wide range of drought-responsive components such as transcription factors, binding proteins, protein kinases, nutrient and ion transporters, and stress signaling factors. For instance, two candidate genes, HORVU7Hr3G0713160 and HORVU6H r3G0626550, are orthologous to AtACX3 and AtVAMPs, which have reported functions in root length-mediated drought tolerance and as a key protein in abiotic stress tolerance, respectively. Interestingly, one of these loci underlying a high-confidence candidate gene NEW ENHANCER OF ROOT DWARFISM1 (NERD1) showed involvement with root development. An allelic variation of this locus in non-coding region was significantly associated with increased root length under drought. Collectively, these results offer promising multi-trait affecting loci and candidate genes underlying root phenotypic responses to drought stress, which may provide valuable resources for genetic improvement of drought tolerance in barley.
Cereal grains are an important source of food and feed. To provide comprehensive spatiotemporal information about biological processes in developing seeds of cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare L. subsp. vulgare), we performed a transcriptomic study of the embryo, endosperm, and seed maternal tissues collected from grains 4-32 days after pollination. Weighted gene co-expression network and motif enrichment analyses identified specific groups of genes and transcription factors (TFs) potentially regulating barley seed tissue development. We defined a set of tissue-specific marker genes and families of TFs for functional studies of the pathways controlling barley grain development. Assessing selected groups of chromatin regulators revealed that epigenetic processes are highly dynamic and likely play a major role during barley endosperm development. The repressive H3K27me3 modification is globally reduced in endosperm tissues and at specific genes related to development and storage compounds. Altogether, this atlas uncovers the complexity of developmentally regulated gene expression in developing barley grains.
Barley ranks fourth in global cereal production and is primarily grown for animal feed and malt. Hordeins, the principal barley seed storage proteins, are homologous to wheat gluten and when ingested elicit an immune response in people with Coeliac disease. Risø 1508 is a chemically induced barley mutant with low hordein levels imparted by the lys3.a locus that is reported to be caused by an SNP in the barley prolamin-box binding factor gene (BPBF). Reports suggest the lys3.a locus prevents CG DNA demethylation at the Hor2 (B-hordein) promoter during grain development subsequently causing hypermethylation and inhibiting gene expression. In lys3.a mutants, endosperm-specific β-amylase (Bmy1) and Hor2 are similarly downregulated during grain development and thus we hypothesize that the inability to demethylate the Bmy1 promoter CG islands is also causing Bmy1 downregulation. We use whole-genome bisulfite sequencing and mRNA-seq on developing endosperms from two lys3.a mutants and a lys3.b mutant to determine all downstream genes affected by lys3 mutations. RNAseq analysis identified 306 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) shared between all mutants and their parents and 185 DEGs shared between both lys3.a mutants and their parents. Global DNA methylation levels and promoter CG DNA methylation levels were not significantly different between the mutants and their parents and thus refute the hypothesis that the lys3.a mutant's phenotype is caused by dysregulation of demethylation during grain development. The majority of DEGs were downregulated (e.g., B- and C-hordeins and Bmy1), but some DEGs were upregulated (e.g., β-glucosidase, D-hordein) suggesting compensatory effects and potentially explaining the low β-glucan phenotype observed in lys3.a germplasm. These findings have implications on human health and provide novel insight to barley breeders regarding the use of BPBF transcription factor mutants to create gluten-free barley varieties.
The HD-ZIP class I transcription factor Homeobox 1 (HvHOX1), also known as Vulgare Row-type Spike 1 (VRS1) or Six-rowed Spike 1, regulates lateral spikelet fertility in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). It was shown that HvHOX1 has a high expression only in lateral spikelets, while its paralog HvHOX2 was found to be expressed in different plant organs. Yet, the mechanistic functions of HvHOX1 and HvHOX2 during spikelet development are still fragmentary. Here, we show that compared with HvHOX1, HvHOX2 is more highly conserved across different barley genotypes and Hordeum species, hinting at a possibly vital but still unclarified biological role. Using bimolecular fluorescence complementation, DNA-binding, and transactivation assays, we validate that HvHOX1 and HvHOX2 are bona fide transcriptional activators that may potentially heterodimerize. Accordingly, both genes exhibit similar spatiotemporal expression patterns during spike development and growth, albeit their mRNA levels differ quantitatively. We show that HvHOX1 delays the lateral spikelet meristem differentiation and affects fertility by aborting the reproductive organs. Interestingly, the ancestral relationship of the two genes inferred from their co-expressed gene networks suggested that HvHOX1 and HvHOX2 might play a similar role during barley spikelet development. However, CRISPR-derived mutants of HvHOX1 and HvHOX2 demonstrated the suppressive role of HvHOX1 on lateral spikelets, while the loss of HvHOX2 does not influence spikelet development. Collectively, our study shows that through the suppression of reproductive organs, lateral spikelet fertility is regulated by HvHOX1, whereas HvHOX2 is dispensable for spikelet development in barley.
Brassinosteroids (BRs) are a class of plant steroid hormones that are essential for plant growth and development. BRs control important agronomic traits and responses to abiotic stresses. Through the signaling pathway, BRs control the expression of thousands of genes, resulting in a variety of biological responses. The key effectors of the BR pathway are two transcription factors (TFs): BRASSINAZOLE RESISTANT 1 (BZR1) and BRI1-EMSSUPPRESSOR 1 (BES1). Both TFs are phosphorylated and inactivated by the Glycogen synthase kinase 3 BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE2 (BIN2), which acts as a negative regulator of the BR pathway. In our study, we describe the functional characteristics of
The common resistance to Spot Blotch (SB) and drought stress in barley was studied using a RILs population caused Kavir × Badia cross. These lines were inoculated with Cochliobolus sativus Gonbad isolate during the adult stage and were evaluated for three crop seasons in different planting dates. The different osmotic potentials during the flowering were regulated by changing the planting dates. In total, 43 lines had resistant to SB and drought. The high-density linkage map covered 1045 cM of barley genome. A total of five stable and closely linked QTLs to SB resistance were mapped on chromosomes 2H, 3H, 4H and 7H using genome-wide composite interval mapping. Moreover, four stable and closely linked QTLs to SB susceptibility were located on chromosomes 3H, 4H, 5H and 7H. Additionally, the ISJ19-A, SCoT7-C, ISJ17-B, Bmac0144k, iPBS2415-1, Bmac0282b and EBmatc0016 markers can be used for positive screening of resistant cultivars. However, ISJ3-C, UMB310, ISJ9-B, UMB706, D03-D and iPBS2257-A markers can be used for negative screening of susceptible cultivars in marker-assisted selection. The bioinformatics studies showed that QRCsa-2H (ISJ19-A region), QRCsa-2H (SCoT7-C-ISJ17-B region), QRCsa-3H (Bmac0144k region), QRCsa-4H (iPBS2415-1 region) and QRCsa-7H (Bmac0282b-EBmatc0016 region) are involved in the carboxypeptidase, Glycosyltransferase, transcription factors, kinase and AP2/ERF, respectively.
Cold stress, as an abiotic stress, is one of the most limiting factors which pose a great threat to the plant's productivity. To understand the transcriptional regulation and connectivity pattern of genes involved in barley cold stress responses, co-expression network analysis was performed based on the global transcriptome profiling. The microarray datasets related to cold stress treatments were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and Array express databases. Four microarray datasets related to cold stress-responsive transcriptome in barley were included in our study. Gene co-expression analysis was constructed using WGCNA method. Module-Trait Relationships (MTR) analysis and hub genes determination and validation were carried out. Finally, transcription factor and kinase regulatory networks were Inferred using machine learning algorithm. The co-expression modules were determined using beta index = 10. In total 13 co-expressed modules were identified with an average size of 153 genes. Functional enrichment based on gene ontology (GO) showed that each of the stress related significant modules were enriched in different biological processes. Annotation of significant modules identifies some TFs and Kinases such as ethylene-responsive transcription factor 1-like, transcription factor PCL1-like, transcription factor MYC2, WRKY, serine/threonine-protein kinase PBL7, and receptor-like protein kinase At2g42960 were contributed in barley cold stress response. Our analysis highlighted the functional importance of ABA signaling pathway, ROS signaling, defensive and protective proteins, degrading protein, Ca2
Drought is a major abiotic stress that impairs the physiology and development of plants, ultimately leading to crop yield losses. Drought tolerance is a complex quantitative trait influenced by multiple genes and metabolic pathways. However, molecular intricacies and subsequent morphological and physiological changes in response to drought stress remain elusive. Herein, we combined morpho-physiological and comparative RNA-sequencing analyses to identify core drought-induced marker genes and regulatory networks in the barley cultivar 'Giza134'. Based on field trials, drought-induced declines occurred in crop growth rate, relative water content, leaf area duration, flag leaf area, concentration of chlorophyll (Chl) a, b and a + b, net photosynthesis, and yield components. In contrast, the Chl a/b ratio, stoma resistance, and proline concentration increased significantly. RNA-sequence analysis identified a total of 2462 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), of which 1555 were up-regulated and 907 were down-regulated in response to water-deficit stress (WD). Comparative transcriptomics analysis highlighted three unique metabolic pathways (carbohydrate metabolism, iron ion binding, and oxidoreductase activity) as containing genes differentially expressed that could mitigate water stress. Our results identified several drought-induced marker genes belonging to diverse physiochemical functions like chlorophyll concentration, photosynthesis, light harvesting, gibberellin biosynthetic, iron homeostasis as well as Cis-regulatory elements. These candidate genes can be utilized to identify gene-associated markers to develop drought-resilient barley cultivars over a short period of time. Our results provide new insights into the understanding of water stress response mechanisms in barley.
Efficient micronutrient acquisition is a critical factor in selecting micronutrient dense crops for human consumption. Enhanced exudation and re-uptake of metal chelators, so-called phytosiderophores, by roots of graminaceous plants has been implicated in efficient micronutrient acquisition. We compared PS biosynthesis and exudation as a response mechanism to either Fe, Zn or Cu starvation. Two barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) lines with contrasting micronutrient grain yields were grown hydroponically and PS exudation (LC-MS) and root gene expression (RNAseq) were determined after either Fe, Zn, or Cu starvation. The response strength of the PS pathway was micronutrient dependent and decreased in the order Fe > Zn > Cu deficiency. We observed a stronger expression of PS pathway genes and greater PS exudation in the barley line with large micronutrient grain yield suggesting that a highly expressed PS pathway might be an important trait involved in high micronutrient accumulation. In addition to several metal specific transporters, we also found that the expression of IRO2 and bHLH156 transcription factors was not only induced under Fe but also under Zn and Cu deficiency. Our study delivers important insights into the role of the PS pathway in the acquisition of different micronutrients.
Genotype-limited plant regeneration is one of the main obstacles to the broader use of genetic transformation in barley breeding. Thus, developing new approaches that might improve responses of in vitro recalcitrant genotypes remains at the center of barley biotechnology. Here, we analyzed different barley genotypes, including "Golden Promise," a genotype commonly used in the genetic transformation, and four malting barley cultivars of poor regenerative potential. The expression of hormone-related transcription factor (TF) genes with documented roles in plant regeneration was analyzed in genotypes with various plant-regenerating capacities. The results indicated differential expression of auxin-related TF genes between the barley genotypes in both the explants and the derived cultures. In support of the role of auxin in barley regeneration, distinct differences in the accumulation of free and oxidized auxin were observed in explants and explant-derived callus cultures of barley genotypes. Following the assumption that modifying gene expression might improve plant regeneration in barley, we treated the barley explants with trichostatin A (TSA), which affects histone acetylation. The effects of TSA were genotype-dependent as TSA treatment improved plant regeneration in two barley cultivars. TSA-induced changes in plant regeneration were associated with the increased expression of auxin biosynthesis-involved TFs. The study demonstrated that explant treatment with chromatin modifiers such as TSA might provide a new and effective epigenetic approach to improving plant regeneration in recalcitrant barley genotypes.
Hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum Hook. f.), belonging to the genus Gramineae, has high and steady output and thus considered as a principal food crop by Tibetan people. Hulless barley grain can be used for food, brewing, and functional health product development, while its straw serves as an essential supplementary forage and is a crucial cereal crop. Lodging can reduce the yield and quality of barley grain and straw, and it hinders mechanical harvesting. It is a significant factor affecting high and stable yields of barley. Unlike other Poaceae plants (such as rice, wheat), hulless barley is mainly grown in high-altitude regions, where it is susceptible to low temperatures, strong winds, and heavy rainfall. As a result, its stem lodging resistance is relatively weak, making it prone to lodging during the growth period. In this study, we observed that the lignin concentration and the contents of lignin monomers (H, S, and G), and neutral detergent fibre of the lodging-resistant variety Kunlun14 were substantially greater than those of the lodging-sensitive variety Menyuanlianglan. We performed the weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and Short Time-series Expression Miner (STEM) analysis of both the lodging-resistant and lodging-sensitive varieties. Through transcriptome sequencing analysis at different developmental stages, combined with the previously annotated genes related to lodging resistance, a total of 72 DEGs were identified. Among these DEGs, 17 genes were related to lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose synthesis or regulation, including five transcription factors about NAC, MYB and WRKY. Our results provide a basis for further exploring the molecular mechanism of stem lodging resistance in hulless barley and provide valuable gene resources for stem lodging resistance molecular breeding.
Homogentisate phytyltransferase (HPT) is the critical enzyme for the biosynthesis of tocopherols (vitamin E), which are the major lipid-soluble antioxidants and help plants adapt to various stress conditions. HPT is generally strictly conserved in various plant genomes; however, a divergent lineage HPT2 was identified recently in some Triticeae species. The molecular function and transcriptional profiles of HPT2 remain to be characterized. In this study, we performed comprehensive transcriptome data mining of HPT1 and HPT2 in different tissues and stages of barley (Hordeum vulgare), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and oat (Avena sativa), followed by qRT-PCR experiments on HPT1 and HPT2 in different tissues of barley and wheat. We found that the common HPT1 genes (HvHPT1, TaHPT1s, and AsHPT1s) displayed a conserved transcriptional pattern in the three target species and were universally transcribed in various tissues, with a notable preference in leaf. In contrast, HPT2 genes (HvHPT2, TaHPT2, and AsHPT2) were specifically transcribed in spike (developmentally up-regulated) and shoot apex tissues, displaying a divergent tissue-specific pattern. Cis-regulatory elements prediction in the promoter region identified common factors related to light-, plant hormone-, low temperature-, drought- and defense- responses in both HPT1s and HPT2s. We observed the transcriptional up-regulation of HvHPT1 and HvHPT2 under various stress conditions, supporting their conserved function in environmental adaption. We detected a clear, relaxed selection pressure in the HPT2 lineage, consistent with the predicted evolution pattern following gene duplication. Protein structural modelling and substrate docking analyses identified putative catalytic amino acid residues for HvHPT1 and HvHPT2, which are strictly conserved and consistent with their function in vitamin E biosynthesis. We confirmed the presence of two lineages of HPT in Triticeae and Aveninae, including hexaploid oat, and characterized their transcriptional profiles based on transcriptome and qRT-PCR data. HPT1s were ubiquitously transcribed in various tissues, whilst HPT2s were highly expressed in specific stages and tissue. The active transcription of HPT2s, together with its conserved cis-elements and protein structural features, support HPT2s' role in tocopherol production in Triticeae. This study is the first protein structural analysis on the membrane-bound plant HPTs and provides valuable insights into its catalytic mechanism.
MicroRNAs are small, noncoding RNA molecules that regulate the expression of their target genes. The MIR444 gene family is present exclusively in monocotyledons, and microRNAs444 from this family have been shown to target certain MADS-box transcription factors in rice and barley. We identified three barley MIR444 (MIR444a/b/c) genes and comprehensively characterised their structure and the processing pattern of the primary transcripts (pri-miRNAs444). Pri-microRNAs444 undergo extensive alternative splicing, generating functional and nonfunctional pri-miRNA444 isoforms. We show that barley pri-miRNAs444 contain numerous open reading frames (ORFs) whose transcripts associate with ribosomes. Using specific antibodies, we provide evidence that selected ORFs encoding PEP444a within MIR444a and PEP444c within MIR444c are expressed in barley plants. Moreover, we demonstrate that CRISPR-associated endonuclease 9 (Cas9)-mediated mutagenesis of the PEP444c-encoding sequence results in a decreased level of PEP444 transcript in barley shoots and roots and a 5-fold reduced level of mature microRNA444c in roots. Our observations suggest that PEP444c encoded by the MIR444c gene is involved in microRNA444c biogenesis in barley.
Drought is a major environmental stress that affects crop productivity worldwide. Although previous research demonstrated links between strigolactones (SLs) and drought, here we used barley (Hordeum vulgare) SL-insensitive mutant hvd14 (dwarf14) to scrutinize the SL-dependent mechanisms associated with water deficit response. We have employed a combination of transcriptomics, proteomics, phytohormonomics analyses, and physiological data to unravel differences between wild-type and hvd14 plants under drought. Our research revealed that drought sensitivity of hvd14 is related to weaker induction of abscisic acid-responsive genes/proteins, lower jasmonic acid content, higher reactive oxygen species content, and lower wax biosynthetic and deposition mechanisms than wild-type plants. In addition, we identified a set of transcription factors (TFs) that are exclusively drought-induced in the wild-type barley. Critically, we resolved a comprehensive series of interactions between the drought-induced barley transcriptome and proteome responses, allowing us to understand the profound effects of SLs in alleviating water-limiting conditions. Several new avenues have opened for developing barley more resilient to drought through the information provided. Moreover, our study contributes to a better understanding of the complex interplay between genes, proteins, and hormones in response to drought, and underscores the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to studying plant stress response mechanisms.
Heat shock factor (HSF), a typical class of transcription factors in plants, has played an essential role in plant growth and developmental stages, signal transduction, and response to biotic and abiotic stresses. The HSF genes families has been identified and characterized in many species through leveraging whole genome sequencing (WGS). However, the identification and systematic analysis of HSF family genes in Rye is limited. In this study, 31 HSF genes were identified in Rye, which were unevenly distributed on seven chromosomes. Based on the homology of A. thaliana, we analyzed the number of conserved domains and gene structures of ScHSF genes that were classified into seven subfamilies. To better understand the developmental mechanisms of ScHSF family during evolution, we selected one monocotyledon (Arabidopsis thaliana) and five (Triticum aestivum L., Hordeum vulgare L., Oryza sativa L., Zea mays L., and Aegilops tauschii Coss.) specific representative dicotyledons associated with Rye for comparative homology mapping. The results showed that fragment replication events modulated the expansion of the ScHSF genes family. In addition, interactions between ScHSF proteins and promoters containing hormone- and stress-responsive cis-acting elements suggest that the regulation of ScHSF expression was complex. A total of 15 representative genes were targeted from seven subfamilies to characterize their gene expression responses in different tissues, fruit developmental stages, three hormones, and six different abiotic stresses. This study demonstrated that ScHSF genes, especially ScHSF1 and ScHSF3, played a key role in Rye development and its response to various hormones and abiotic stresses. These results provided new insights into the evolution of HSF genes in Rye, which could help the success of molecular breeding in Rye.
Aluminum (Al) toxicity in acidic soil is a major factor affecting crop productivity. The extensive genetic diversity found in Tibetan wild barley germplasms offers a valuable reservoir of alleles associated with aluminum tolerance. Here, resequencing of two Al-tolerant barley genotypes (Tibetan wild barley accession XZ16 and cultivated barley Dayton) identified a total of 19,826,182 and 16,287,277 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), 1628,052 and 1386,973 insertions/deletions (InDels), 61,532 and 57,937 structural variations (SVs), 248,768 and 240,723 copy number variations (CNVs) in XZ16 and Dayton, respectively, and uncovered approximately 600 genes highly related to Al tolerance in barley. Comparative genomic analyses unveiled 71 key genes that contain unique genetic variants in XZ16 and are predominantly associated with organic acid exudation, Al sequestration, auxin response, and transcriptional regulation. Manipulation of these key genes at the genetic and transcriptional level is a promising strategy for developing optimal haplotype combinations and new barley cultivars with improved Al tolerance. This study represents the first comprehensive examination of genetic variation in Al-tolerant Tibetan wild barley through genome-wide profiling. The obtained results make the deep insight into the mechanisms underlying barley adaptation to Al toxicity, and identified the candidate genes useful for improvement of Al tolerance in barley.
Leaf rust, caused by Puccinia hordei, is one of the most widespread and damaging foliar diseases affecting barley. The barley leaf rust resistance locus Rph7 has been shown to have unusually high sequence and haplotype divergence. In this study, we isolate the Rph7 gene using a fine mapping and RNA-Seq approach that is confirmed by mutational analysis and transgenic complementation. Rph7 is a pathogen-induced, non-canonical resistance gene encoding a protein that is distinct from other known plant disease resistance proteins in the Triticeae. Structural analysis using an AlphaFold2 protein model suggests that Rph7 encodes a putative NAC transcription factor with a zinc-finger BED domain with structural similarity to the N-terminal DNA-binding domain of the NAC transcription factor (ANAC019) from Arabidopsis. A global gene expression analysis suggests Rph7 mediates the activation and strength of the basal defence response. The isolation of Rph7 highlights the diversification of resistance mechanisms available for engineering disease control in crops.
The anther tapetum helps control microspore release and essential components for pollen wall formation. TAPETAL DEVELOPMENT and FUNCTION1 (TDF1) is an essential R2R3 MYB tapetum transcription factor in Arabidopsis thaliana; however, little is known about pollen development in the temperate monocot barley. Here, we characterize the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) TDF1 ortholog using reverse genetics and transcriptomics. Spatial/temporal expression analysis indicates HvTDF1 has tapetum-specific expression during anther stage 7/8. Homozygous barley hvtdf1 mutants exhibit male sterility with retarded tapetum development, delayed tapetum endomitosis and cell wall degeneration, resulting in enlarged, vacuolated tapetum surrounding collapsing microspores. Transient protein expression and dual-luciferase assays show TDF1 is a nuclear-localized, transcription activator, that directly activates osmotin proteins. Comparison of hvtdf1 transcriptome data revealed several pathways were delayed, endorsing the observed retarded anther morphology. Arabidopsis tdf1 mutant fertility was recovered by HvTDF1, supporting a conserved role for TDF1 in monocots and dicots. This indicates that tapetum development shares similarity between monocot and dicots; however, barley HvTDF1 appears to uniquely act as a modifier to activate tapetum gene expression pathways, which are subsequently also induced by other factors. Therefore, the absence of HvTDF1 results in delayed developmental progression rather than pathway failure, although inevitably still results in pollen degeneration.
Floral morphology varies considerably between dicots and monocots. The ABCDE model explaining how floral organ development is controlled was formulated using core eudicots and applied to grass crops. Barley (Hordeum. vulgare) has unique floral morphogenesis. Wild barley (H. vulgare ssp. spontaneum), which is the immediate ancestor of cultivated barley (H. vulgare ssp. vulgare), contains a rich reservoir of genetic diversity. However, the wild barley genes involved in floral organ development are still relatively uncharacterized. In this study, we generated an organ-specific transcriptome atlas for wild barley floral organs. Genome-wide transcription profiles indicated that 22 838 protein-coding genes were expressed in at least one organ. These genes were grouped into seven clusters according to the similarities in their expression patterns. Moreover, 5619 genes exhibited organ-enriched expression, 677 of which were members of 47 transcription factor families. Gene ontology analyses suggested that the functions of the genes with organ-enriched expression influence the biological processes in floral organs. The co-expression regulatory network showed that the expression of 690 genes targeted by MADS-box proteins was highly positively correlated with the expression of ABCDE model genes during floral morphogenesis. Furthermore, the expression of 138 genes was specific to the wild barley OUH602 genome and not the Morex genome; most of these genes were highly expressed in the glume, awn, lemma, and palea. This study revealed the global gene expression patterns underlying floral morphogenesis in wild barley. On the basis of the study findings, a molecular mechanism controlling floral morphology in barley was proposed.
Highland barley (HB) is an important cereal crop distributed in the plateau region. Bioactive peptides (BAPs) derived from cereal proteins have shown biological functions. However, the knowledge of highland barley peptide (HBP) is limited. This study aims to explore the immunomodulatory activity of HBP and the relationship between immunomodulatory activity and related gene expression through RNA-seq. Firstly, HBP is isolated from protease hydrolysates of HB protein, yielding 12.04% of crude HB protein. The molecular weight of HBP is about 1702 Da analyzed by gel filtration chromatography, and HBP has a specific amino acid sequence as Gln-Pro-Gln-Gln-Pro-Phe-Pro-Gln (QPQPFPQ) analyzed by LC-MS. Besides, HBP contains 42.20% hydrophobic amino acids and 10.86% basic amino acids. Next, the immunomodulatory activity of HBP in vitro shows that HBP enhances the phagocytosis of RAW264.7 macrophages, promotes nitric oxide (NO) production and the mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory genes including tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), interleukin 1β (IL-1β), and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and decreases the mRNA expression of anti-inflammatory gene, transforming growth factor β1 (TGF-β1). RNA-seq analysis reveals TNF and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) pathways are upregulated, and RT-qPCR is performed to verify RNA-seq analysis. In conclusion, HBP activates RAW264.7 macrophages via TNF/NF-κB signaling pathway. HBP, as a significant immunomodulatory peptide, might be a promising resource for future functional foods.
Seeds are a vital source of calories for humans and a unique stage in the life cycle of flowering plants. During seed germination, the embryo undergoes major developmental transitions to become a seedling. Studying gene expression in individual seed cell types has been challenging due to the lack of spatial information or low throughput of existing methods. To overcome these limitations, a spatial transcriptomics workflow was developed for germinating barley grain. This approach enabled high-throughput analysis of spatial gene expression, revealing specific spatial expression patterns of various functional gene categories at a sub-tissue level. This study revealed over 14 000 genes differentially regulated during the first 24 h after imbibition. Individual genes, such as the aquaporin gene family, starch degradation, cell wall modification, transport processes, ribosomal proteins and transcription factors, were found to have specific spatial expression patterns over time. Using spatial autocorrelation algorithms, we identified auxin transport genes that had increasingly focused expression within subdomains of the embryo over time, suggesting their role in establishing the embryo axis. Overall, our study provides an unprecedented spatially resolved cellular map for barley germination and identifies specific functional genomics targets to better understand cellular restricted processes during germination. The data can be viewed at https://spatial.latrobe.edu.au/.
Malt barley ( The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11032-022-01331-7.
Improvement of low nitrogen (LN) tolerance or nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) in crops is imperative for environment-friendly agriculture development. The basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors are involved in multiple abiotic stresses and are suitable as candidate genes for improving LN tolerance. Few studies were performed on the characterization of the
Correct floral development is the result of a sophisticated balance of molecular cues. Floral mutants provide insight into the main genetic determinants that integrate these cues, as well as providing opportunities to assess functional variation across species. In this study, we characterize the barley (Hordeum vulgare) multiovary mutants mov2.g and mov1, and propose causative gene sequences: a C2H2 zinc-finger gene HvSL1 and a B-class gene HvMADS16, respectively. In the absence of HvSL1, florets lack stamens but exhibit functional supernumerary carpels, resulting in multiple grains per floret. Deletion of HvMADS16 in mov1 causes homeotic conversion of lodicules and stamens into bract-like organs and carpels that contain non-functional ovules. Based on developmental, genetic, and molecular data, we propose a model by which stamen specification in barley is defined by HvSL1 acting upstream of HvMADS16. The present work identifies strong conservation of stamen formation pathways with other cereals, but also reveals intriguing species-specific differences. The findings lay the foundation for a better understanding of floral architecture in Triticeae, a key target for crop improvement.
MADS-box transcription factors are crucial members of regulatory networks underlying multiple developmental pathways and abiotic stress regulatory networks in plants. Studies on stress resistance-related functions of MADS-box genes are very limited in barley. To gain insight into this gene family and elucidate their roles in salt and waterlogging stress resistance, we performed genome-wide identification, characterization and expression analysis of MADS-box genes in barley. A whole-genome survey of barley revealed 83 MADS-box genes, which were categorized into type I (Mα, Mβ and Mγ) and type II (AP1, SEP1, AGL12, STK, AGL16, SVP and MIKC*) lineages based on phylogeny, protein motif structure. Twenty conserved motifs were determined and each
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) represents the fourth most essential cereal crop in the world, vulnerable to barley yellow mosaic virus (BaYMV) and/or barley mild mosaic virus (BaMMV), leading to the significant yield reduction. To gain a better understanding of the mechanisms regarding barley crop tolerance to virus infection, we employed a transcriptome sequencing approach and investigated global gene expression among three barley varieties under both infected and control conditions. High-throughput sequencing outputs revealed massive genetic responses, reflected by the barley transcriptome after BaYMV and/or BaMMV infection. Significant enrichments in peptidase complex and protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum were clustered through Gene ontology and KEGG analysis. Many genes were identified as transcription factors, antioxidants, disease resistance genes and plant hormones and differentially expressed between infected and uninfected barley varieties. Importantly, general response genes, variety-specific and infection-specific genes were also discovered. Our results provide useful information for future barley breeding to resist BaYMV and BaMMV. Our study elucidates transcriptomic adaptations in barley response to BaYMV/BaMMV infection through high-throughput sequencing technique. The analysis outcome from GO and KEGG pathways suggests that BaYMV disease induced regulations in multiple molecular-biology processes and signalling pathways. Moreover, critical DEGs involved in defence and stress tolerance mechanisms were displayed. Further functional investigations focusing on these DEGs contributes to understanding the molecular mechanisms of plant response to BaYMV disease infection, thereby offering precious genetic resources for breeding barley varieties resistant to BaYMV disease.
Barley malt is produced through a malting process; it begins with steeping followed by germination and kilning, in which dramatic changes happen for a large number of physiological and biochemical traits in barley seeds. The objectives of this study were to comprehensively investigate the phenotypic changes during malting, and identify the key regulators that modulate the expression of genes associated with malt quality traits. The results showed that there was a significant positive correlation between gibberellic acid (GA) content and the activities of some hydrolytic enzymes, including α-amylases, β-amylases, and limit dextrinase (LD), and a significant negative correlation between GA and β-glucan content. Starch content had little change, but starch granules were pitted severely during malting. Weighted gene coexpression analysis (WGCNA) identified the genes associated with the greatest changes of the examined malt traits during malting. The correlation analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis detected several key transcriptional factor (TF) regulating genes associated with malt quality. These genes and TFs regulating malting traits are potentially useful in barley breeding for malt quality improvement.
Wind, rain, herbivores, obstacles, neighbouring plants, etc. provide important mechanical cues to steer plant growth and survival. Mechanostimulation to stimulate yield and stress resistance of crops is of significant research interest, yet a molecular understanding of transcriptional responses to touch is largely absent in cereals. To address this, we performed whole-genome transcriptomics following mechanostimulation of wheat, barley, and the recent genome-sequenced oat. The largest transcriptome changes occurred ±25 min after touching, with most of the genes being upregulated. While most genes returned to basal expression level by 1-2 h in oat, many genes retained high expression even 4 h post-treatment in barley and wheat. Functional categories such as transcription factors, kinases, phytohormones, and Ca
Flavonoid compounds like anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins are important plant secondary metabolites having wide biological activities for humans. In this study, the molecular function of the
Plant surface properties are crucial determinants of resilience to abiotic and biotic stresses. The outer layer of the plant cuticle consists of chemically diverse epicuticular waxes. The WAX INDUCER1/SHINE subfamily of APETALA2/ETHYLENE RESPONSIVE FACTORS regulates cuticle properties in plants. In this study, four barley genes homologous to the
Proteins that are pathogenesis-related 1 (PR-1) can accumulate to high levels when plants employ defenses, being major participants in processes critical for stress responses as well as development of many species. Yet we still lack information concerning
WD40 transcription factors, a large gene family in eukaryotes, are involved in a variety of growth regulation and development pathways. WD40 plays an important role in the formation of MYB-bHLH-WD (MBW) complexes associated with anthocyanin synthesis, but studies of Qingke barley are lacking. In this study, 164 barley HvWD40 genes were identified in the barley genome and were analyzed to determine their relevant bioinformatics. The 164 HvWD40 were classified into 11 clusters and 14 subfamilies based on their structural and phylogenetic protein profiles. Co-lineage analysis revealed that there were 43 pairs between barley and rice, and 56 pairs between barley and maize. Gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis revealed that the molecular function, biological process, and cell composition were enriched. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) results showed that the RNA transport pathway was mainly enriched. Based on the identification and analysis of the barley WD40 family and the transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) results, we found that HvWD40-140 (WD40 family; Gene ID: r1G058730), HvANT1 (MYB family; Gene ID: HORVU7Hr1G034630), and HvANT2 (bHLH family; Gene ID: HORVU2Hr1G096810) were important components of the MBW complex related to anthocyanin biosynthesis in Qingke, which was verified via quantitative real-time fluorescence polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), subcellular location, yeast two-hybrid (Y2H), and bimolecular fluorescent complimentary (BiFC) and dual-luciferase assay analyses. In this study, we identified 164 HvWD40 genes in barley and found that HvnANT1, HvnANT2, and HvWD40-140 can form an MBW complex and regulate the transcriptional activation of the anthocyanin synthesis related structural gene HvDFR. The results of this study provide a theoretical basis for further study of the mechanism of HvWD40-140 in the MBW complex related to anthocyanin synthesis in Qingke.
Barley yellow dwarf viruses (BYDVs) are one of the most widespread and economically important plant viruses affecting many cereal crops. Growing resistant varieties remains the most promising approach to reduce the impact of BYDVs. A Recent RNA sequencing analysis has revealed potential genes that respond to BYDV infection in resistant barley genotypes. Together with a comprehensive review of the current knowledge on disease resistance in plants, we selected nine putative barley and wheat genes to investigate their involvement in resistance to BYDV-PAV infection. The target classes of genes were (i) nucleotide binding site (NBS) leucine-rich repeat (LRR), (ii) coiled-coil nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat (CC-NB-LRR), (iii) LRR receptor-like kinase (RLK), (iv) casein kinase, (v) protein kinase, (vi) protein phosphatase subunits and the transcription factors (TF) (vii) MYB TF, (viii) GRAS (gibberellic acid-insensitive (GAI), repressor of GAI (RGA) and scarecrow (SCR)), and (ix) the MADS-box TF family. Expression of genes was analysed for six genotypes with different levels of resistance. As in previous reports, the highest BYDV-PAV titre was found in the susceptible genotypes Graciosa in barley and Semper and SGS 27-02 in wheat, which contrast with the resistant genotypes PRS-3628 and Wysor of wheat and barley, respectively. Statistically significant changes in wheat show up-regulation of
Plant homeodomain (PHD) transcription factors (TFs) are a class of proteins with conserved Cys4-His-Cys3 domains that play important roles in plant growth and development and in response to abiotic stresses. Although characterization of
The cis-regulatory element became increasingly important for resistance breeding. There were many DNA variations identified by resequencing. To investigate the links between the DNA variations and cis-regulatory element was the fundamental work. DNA variations in cis-regulatory elements caused phenotype variations in general. We used WGBS, ChIP-seq and RNA-seq technology to decipher the regulatory element landscape from eight hulless barley varieties under four kinds of abiotic stresses. We discovered 231,440 lowly methylated regions (LMRs) from the methylome data of eight varieties. The LMRs mainly distributed in the intergenic regions. A total of 97,909 enhancer-gene pairs were identified from the correlation analysis between methylation degree and expression level. A lot of enriched motifs were recognized from the tolerant-specific LMRs. The key transcription factors were screened out and the transcription factor regulatory network was inferred from the enhancer-gene pairs data for drought stress. The NAC transcription factor was predicted to target to TCP, bHLH, bZIP transcription factor genes. We concluded that the H3K27me3 modification regions overlapped with the LMRs more than the H3K4me3. The variation of single nucleotide polymorphism was more abundant in LMRs than the remain regions of the genome. Epigenetic regulation is an important mechanism for organisms to adapt to complex environments. Through the study of DNA methylation and histone modification, we found that many changes had taken place in enhancers and transcription factors in the abiotic stress of hulless barley. For example, transcription factors including NAC may play an important role. This enriched the molecular basis of highland barley stress response.
To explore how fermented barley extracts could affect obesity-associated inflammatory responses to ameliorate high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity, and investigate whether their anti-inflammatory properties were affected by modulating the gut microbiota. Twenty-four male rats were assigned randomly to three groups for 8 weeks. Inflammatory status and gut microbiota in HFD-induced obese rats were measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay and 16sRNA sequencing technology. The dietary supplementation of Extract of fermented barley with L. plantarum JDM1 (LFBE) reduced HFD-induced obesity and improved insulin sensitivity. LFBE significantly decreased the levels of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and pro-inflammatory cytokines (tumour necrosis factor-α, interleukin [IL]-6, IL-1β, monocyte chemotactic protein-1), and increased anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-10) in serum. In addition, LFBE suppressed the activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) by inhibiting the inhibitor of NF-κB alpha degradation and phosphorylation of JNK/p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases in adipose tissue. Combined with changes in gut microbiota, these results illustrated that LFBE treatment markedly decreased the proportion of the LPS-producing opportunistic pathogens and increased the proportion of Bifidobacterium. Administration of LFBE has beneficial effects on ameliorating HFD-induced obesity and insulin resistance, lessening HFD-induced gut microbiota dysbiosis and pro-inflammatory cytokines secretion. The results suggest that fermented barley extracts may be a useful functional compound and beneficial to improve inflammatory status and gut microflora.
Thaumatin-like proteins (TLPs) participate in the defense responses of plants as well as their growth and development processes, including seed germination. Yet the functioning of
Pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins are active participants of plant defense against biotic and abiotic stresses. The PR-4 family features a Barwin domain at the C-terminus, which endows the host plant with disease resistance. However, comprehensive analysis of PR-4 genes is still lacking in Qingke (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum). Herein, a total of four PR-4 genes were identified from the genome of Qingke through HMM profiling. Devoid of the chitin-binding domain, these 4 proteins were grouped as class II PR-4s. Phylogenic analysis revealed that 127 PR-4s from 47 species were clustered into 3 major groups, among which the four Qingke PR-4s were claded into group I. Analysis of gene structure demonstrated that no intron was found in 3 out of the 4 Qingke PR-4s, and HOVUSG0928500 was the only gene contained one intron. An array of cis-acting motifs were detected in promoters of Qingke PR-4 genes, including elements associated with hormone response, light response, stress response, growth and development processes and binding sites of transcription factors, implying their diverse role. Expression profiling confirmed that Qingke PR-4s were involved in defense response against drought, cold and powdery mildews infection, and transcription of HOVUSG1974300 and HOVUSG5705400 was differentially regulated by MeJA and SA. Findings of the study provided insights into the genetic basis of the PR-4 family genes, and would promote further investigation on protein function and utilization.
Obesity is characterized by excessive lipid accumulation, hypertrophy, and hyperplasia of adipose cells. Hulless barley (
Fusarium head blight (FHB) is a devastating disease encountered by spring-grown barley. Traditionally, synthetic chemicals have been used to control this disease on small grain cereals. A move toward biological control agents as part of sustainable agriculture is pertinent due to the evolutionary mechanisms employed by fungal diseases to circumvent current protection strategies. This study evaluated the effect of six lactic acid bacteria isolates on the development of FHB under
Leaf senescence is a developmental process allowing nutrient remobilization to sink organs. We characterized flag leaf senescence at 7, 14, and 21 d past anthesis in two near-isogenic barley lines varying in the allelic state of the HvNAM1 transcription factor gene, which influences senescence timing. Metabolomics and microscopy indicated that, as senescence progressed, thylakoid lipids were transiently converted to neutral lipids accumulating in lipid droplets. Senescing leaves also exhibited an accumulation of sugars including glucose, while nitrogen compounds (nucleobases, nucleotides, and amino acids) decreased. RNA-Seq analysis suggested lipid catabolism via β-oxidation and the glyoxylate cycle, producing carbon skeletons and feeding respiration as a replacement of the diminished carbon supply from photosynthesis. Comparison of the two barley lines highlighted a more prominent up-regulation of heat stress transcription factor- and chaperone-encoding genes in the late-senescing line, suggesting a role for these genes in the control of leaf longevity. While numerous genes with putative roles in nitrogen remobilization were up-regulated in both lines, several peptidases, nucleases, and nitrogen transporters were more highly induced in the early-senescing line; this finding identifies processes and specific candidates which may affect nitrogen remobilization from senescing barley leaves, downstream of the HvNAM1 transcription factor.
Food-borne carbon dots (CDs) are widely generated during food processing and are inevitably ingested by humans causing toxicity. However, the toxic effects of food-borne CDs on the blood glucose metabolism are unknown. In this study, we brewed beer via a representative strategy and extracted the melting-barley CDs (MBCDs) to explore the toxic effects on blood glucose in mice. We found the accumulation of fluorescent labeled MBCDs in various organs and oral administration of MBCDs can cause visceral toxicity, manifested as liver damage. Mice were orally administered MBCDs (5 and 25 mg/kg) for 16 weeks, and increased levels of fasting blood glucose were observed in both MBCDs-treated groups. Transcriptomic analyses revealed that MBCDs activate oxidative stress, inflammatory responses, the MAPK cascade, and PI3K/Akt signaling in mice livers. Mechanistically, MBCDs exposure-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) overproduction activates the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) signaling pathway and MAPK cascade, thereby promoting phosphorylated insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-1 at Ser307 and inducing insulin resistance (IR). Meanwhile, the IR promoted gluconeogenesis, which enhanced MBCDs-induced hyperglycemia of mice. Importantly, inhibition of the ROS significantly attenuated the MBCDs-induced inflammatory response and MAPK cascade, thereby alleviating IR and hyperglycemia in mice. In summary, this study revealed that MBCDs promote ROS overproduction and thus induced IR, resulting in imbalance of glucose homeostasis in mice. More importantly, this study was further assessed to reveal an imperative emphasis on the reevaluation of dietary and environmental CDs exposure, and has important implications for T2DM prevention research.
Spectral quality, intensity and period of light modify many regulatory and stress signaling pathways in plants. Both nitrate and sulfate assimilations must be synchronized with photosynthesis, which ensures energy and reductants for these pathways. However, photosynthesis is also a source of reactive oxygen species, whose levels are controlled by glutathione and other antioxidants. In this study, we investigated the effect of supplemental far-red (735 nm) and blue (450 nm) lights on the diurnal expression of the genes related to photoreceptors, the circadian clock, nitrate reduction, glutathione metabolism and various antioxidants in barley. The maximum expression of the investigated four photoreceptor and three clock-associated genes during the light period was followed by the peaking of the transcripts of the three redox-responsive transcription factors during the dark phase, while most of the nitrate and sulfate reduction, glutathione metabolism and antioxidant-enzyme-related genes exhibited high expression during light exposure in plants grown in light/dark cycles for two days. These oscillations changed or disappeared in constant white light during the subsequent two days. Supplemental far-red light induced the activation of most of the studied genes, while supplemental blue light did not affect or inhibited them during light/dark cycles. However, in constant light, several genes exhibited greater expression in blue light than in white and far-red lights. Based on a correlation analysis of the gene expression data, we propose a major role of far-red light in the coordinated transcriptional adjustment of nitrate reduction, glutathione metabolism and antioxidant enzymes to changes of the light spectrum.
Fermentation by lactic acid bacteria can improve the nutritional value and biological function of cereal. Our previous studies have confirmed that Lactobacillus plantarum fermented barley extract (LFBE) can alleviate obesity caused by high-fat diet (HFD) in rats, while the precise mechanism remains unclear. Herein, we explored the effect of LFBE on the adipose tissue in obese rats and its mechanism via transcriptomics technology. Results showed that administration of LFBE in obese rats for 8 weeks significantly alleviated weight gain, reduced fasting blood glucose, and inhibited lipid accumulation. Transmission electron microscope (TEM) observation of adipose tissue found that LFBE held the ability to maintain mitochondria integrity and functionality. Transcriptomics analysis revealed that LFBE increased the expressions of mitochondrial β-oxidized-related genes, while inhibiting the expressions of fatty acid synthesis-related genes. Furthermore, KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) enrichment analysis and western blotting studies confirmed that LFBE mainly enhanced the energy consumption of adipocytes through the phosphorylation of AMP-Activated Protein Kinase (AMPK) and the mitochondrial proliferation pathway regulated by peroxisome proliferative activated receptor, gamma, coactivator 1 alpha (PGC1α). Taken together, these findings indicated that LFBE could ameliorate HFD-induced obesity by activating AMPK/PGC1α axis regulated signaling pathways.
DNA methylation and histone modification enable plants to rapidly adapt to adverse temperature stresses, including low temperature (LT) and high temperature (HT) stress. In this study, we conducted physiological, epigenetic, and transcriptomic analyses of barley seedlings grown under control (22°C), mild low temperature (MLT, 14°C) and HT (38°C) conditions to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms. Compared to MLT, HT implies greater deleterious effects on barley seedlings' growth. The methylation-sensitive amplification polymorphism analysis showed that MLT induced more DNA methylation and HT more DNA demethylation compared to control. Besides, the higher levels of H3K9ac and H3K4me3 under HT compared to MLT stresses might lead to the loosening of chromatin and, subsequently, the activation of gene expression. Consistently, the transcriptome analysis revealed that there were more differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in plants subjected to HT stress than MLT stress compared to control. The common and unique pathways of these DEGs between MLT and HT were also analyzed. Transcription factors, such as ERF, bHLH, NAC, HSF, and MYB, were most involved in MLT and HT stress. The underlying gene regulation networks of epigenetic modulation-related genes were further explored by weight gene co-expression network analysis. Our study provides new insights into the understanding of epigenetic regulation responses to temperature stress in barley, which will lead to improved strategies for the development of cold- and heat-tolerant barley varieties for sustainable barley production in a climate-changing world.
Spikelets are highly specialized and short-lived branches and function as a constitutional unit of the complex grass inflorescences. A series of genetic, genomic, and developmental studies across different clades of the family have called for and permitted a synthesis on the regulation and evolution of spikelets, and hence inflorescence diversity. Here, we have revisited the identity specification of a spikelet, focusing on the diagnostic features of a spikelet from morphological, developmental, and molecular perspectives. Particularly, recent studies on a collection of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), wheat (Triticum spp.), and rice (Oryza sativa L.) mutants have highlighted a set of transcription factors that are important in the control of spikelet identity and the patterning of floral parts of a spikelet. In addition, we have endeavored to clarify some puzzling issues on the (in)determinacy and modifications of spikelets over the course of evolution. Meanwhile, genomes of two sister taxa of the remaining grass species have again demonstrated the importance of genome duplication and subsequent gene losses on the evolution of spikelets. Accordingly, we argue that changes in the orthologs of spikelet-related genes could be critical for the development and evolution of the spikelet, an evolutionary innovation in the grass family. Likewise, the conceptual discussions on the regulation of a fundamental unit of compound inflorescences could be translated into other organismal groups where compound structures are similarly formed, permitting a comparative perspective on the control of biological complexity.
In our previous study, we reported that arginyl-fructose (AF), one of the Amadori rearrangement compounds (ARCs) produced by the heat processing of Korean ginseng can reduce carbohydrate absorption by inhibiting intestinal carbohydrate hydrolyzing enzymes in both in vitro and in vivo animal models. This reduced absorption of carbohydrate might be helpful to control body weight gain due to excessive carbohydrate consumption and support induced calorie restriction. However, the weight management effect, except for the effect due to anti-hyperglycemic action, along with the potential mechanism of action have not yet been determined. Therefore, the efforts of this study are to investigate and understand the possible weight management effect and mechanism action of AF-enriched barley extracts (BEE). More specifically, the effect of BEE on lipid accumulation and adipogenic gene expression, body weight gain, body weight, plasma lipids, body fat mass, and lipid deposition were evaluated using C57BL/6 mice and 3T3-L1 preadipocytes models. The formation of lipid droplets in the 3T3-L1 treated with BEE (500 and 750 µg/mL) was significantly blocked (p < 0.05 and p < 0.01, respectively). Male C57BL/6 mice were fed a high-fat diet (30% fat) for 8 weeks with BEE (0.3 g/kg-body weight). Compared to the high fat diet control (HFD) group, the cells treated with BEE significantly decreased in intracellular lipid accumulation with concomitant decreases in the expression of key transcription factors, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ), CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (CEBP/α), the mRNA expression of downstream lipogenic target genes such as fatty acid binding protein 4 (FABP4), fatty acid synthase (FAS), and sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c (SREBP-1c). Supplementation of BEE effectively lowered the body weight gain, visceral fat accumulation, and plasma lipid concentrations. Compared to the HFD group, BEE significantly suppressed body weight gain (16.06 ± 2.44 g vs. 9.40 ± 1.39 g, p < 0.01) and increased serum adiponectin levels, significantly, 1.6-folder higher than the control group. These results indicate that AF-enriched barley extracts may prevent diet-induced weight gain and the anti-obesity effect is mediated in part by inhibiting adipogenesis and increasing adiponectin level.
Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that are located in the promoter regions of genes and affect the binding of transcription factors (TFs) are called regulatory SNPs (rSNPs). Their identification can be highly valuable for the interpretation of genome-wide association studies (GWAS), since rSNPs can reveal the biologically causative variant and decipher the regulatory mechanisms behind a phenotype. In our previous work, we presented agReg-SNPdb, a database of regulatory SNPs for agriculturally important animal species. To complement this previous work, in this study we present the extension agReg-SNPdb-Plants storing rSNPs and their predicted effects on TF-binding for 13 agriculturally important plant species and subspecies (
The circadian clock helps organisms to anticipate and coordinate gene regulatory responses to changes in environmental stimuli. Under stresses, both time of day and the circadian clock closely control the magnitude of plant responses. The identification of clock-regulated genes is, therefore, important when studying the influence of environmental factors. Here, we present CAST-R (Circadian And heat STress-Responsive), a "Shiny" application that allows users to identify and visualize circadian and heat stress-responsive genes in plants. More specifically, users can generate and export profiles and heatmaps representing transcript abundance of a single or of multiple Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genes over a 24-h time course, in response to heat stress and during recovery following the stress. The application also takes advantage of published Arabidopsis chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing datasets to visualize the connections between clock proteins and their targets in an interactive network. In addition, CAST-R offers the possibility to perform phase (i.e. timing of expression) enrichment analyses for rhythmic datasets from any species, within and beyond plants. This functionality combines statistical analyses and graphical representations to identify significantly over- and underrepresented phases within a subset of genes. Lastly, profiles of transcript abundance can be visualized from multiple circadian datasets generated in Arabidopsis, Brassica rapa, barley (Hordeum vulgare), and rice (Oryza sativa). In summary, CAST-R is a user-friendly interface that allows the rapid identification of circadian and stress-responsive genes through multiple modules of visualization. We anticipate that this tool will make it easier for users to obtain temporal and dynamic information on genes of interest that links plant responses to environmental signals.
CCCH transcription factors are important zinc finger transcription factors involved in the response to biotic and abiotic stress and physiological and developmental processes. Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is an agriculturally important cereal crop with multiple uses, such as brewing production, animal feed, and human food. The identification and assessment of new functional genes are important for the molecular breeding of barley. In this study, a total of 53 protein-encoding CCCH genes unevenly dispersed on seven different chromosomes were identified in barley. Phylogenetic analysis categorized the barley CCCH genes (HvC3Hs) into eleven subfamilies according to their distinct features, and this classification was supported by intron-exon structure and conserved motif analysis. Both segmental and tandem duplication contributed to the expansion of CCCH gene family in barley. Genetic variation of HvC3Hs was characterized using publicly available exome-capture sequencing datasets. Clear genetic divergence was observed between wild and landrace barley populations in HvC3H genes. For most HvC3Hs, nucleotide diversity and the number of haplotype polymorphisms decreased during barley domestication. Furthermore, the HvC3H genes displayed distinct expression profiles for different developmental processes and in response to various types of stresses. The HvC3H1, HvC3H2 and HvC3H13 of arginine-rich tandem CCCH zinc finger (RR-TZF) genes were significantly induced by multiple types of abiotic stress and/or phytohormone treatment, which might make them as excellent targets for the molecular breeding of barley. Overall, our study provides a comprehensive characterization of barley CCCH transcription factors, their diversity, and their biological functions.
Understanding the molecular network, including protein-protein interactions, of VRS5 provide new routes towards the identification of other key regulators of plant architecture in barley. The TCP transcriptional regulator TEOSINTE BRANCHED 1 (TB1) is a key regulator of plant architecture. In barley, an important cereal crop, HvTB1 (also referred to as VULGARE SIX-ROWED spike (VRS) 5), inhibits the outgrowth of side shoots, or tillers, and grains. Despite its key role in barley development, there is limited knowledge on the molecular network that is utilized by VRS5. In this work, we performed protein-protein interaction studies of VRS5. Our analysis shows that VRS5 potentially interacts with a diverse set of proteins, including other class II TCP's, NF-Y TF, but also chromatin remodelers. Zooming in on the interaction capacity of VRS5 with other TCP TFs shows that VRS5 preferably interacts with other class II TCP TFs in the TB1 clade. Induced mutagenesis through CRISPR-Cas of one of the putative VRS5 interactors, HvTB2 (also referred to as COMPOSITUM 1 and BRANCHED AND INDETERMINATE SPIKELET 1), resulted in plants that have lost their characteristic unbranched spike architecture. More specifically, hvtb2 mutants exhibited branches arising at the main spike, suggesting that HvTB2 acts as inhibitor of branching. Our protein-protein interaction studies of VRS5 resulted in the identification of HvTB2 as putative interactor of VRS5, another key regulator of spike architecture in barley. The study presented here provides a first step to underpin the protein-protein interactome of VRS5 and to identify other, yet unknown, key regulators of barley plant architecture.
The WHIRLY (WHY) DNA/RNA binding proteins fulfil multiple but poorly characterised functions in leaf development. Here, we show that WHY1 transcript levels were highest in the bases of 7-day old barley leaves. Immunogold labelling revealed that the WHY1 protein was more abundant in the nuclei than the proplastids of the leaf bases. To identify transcripts associated with leaf development we conducted hierarchical clustering of differentially abundant transcripts along the developmental gradient of wild-type leaves. Similarly, metabolite profiling was employed to identify metabolites exhibiting a developmental gradient. A comparative analysis of transcripts and metabolites in barley lines (W1-1 and W1-7) lacking WHY1, which show delayed greening compared with the wild type revealed that the transcript profile of leaf development was largely unchanged in W1-1 and W1-7 leaves. However, there were differences in levels of several transcripts encoding transcription factors associated with chloroplast development. These include a barley homologue of the Arabidopsis GATA transcription factor that regulates stomatal development, greening and chloroplast development, NAC1; two transcripts with similarity to Arabidopsis GLK1 and two transcripts encoding ARF transcriptions factors with functions in leaf morphogenesis and development. Chloroplast proteins were less abundant in the W1-1 and W1-7 leaves than the wild type. The levels of tricarboxylic acid cycle metabolites and GABA were significantly lower in WHY1 knockdown leaves than the wild type. This study provides evidence that WHY1 is localised in the nuclei of leaf bases, contributing the regulation of nuclear-encoded transcripts that regulate chloroplast development.
In barley, incubation of primary dormant (D1) grains on water under conditions that do not allow germination, i.e. 30°C in air and 15°C or 30°C in 5% O2, induces a secondary dormancy (D2) expressed as a loss of the ability to germinate at 15°C in air. The aim of this study was to compare the proteome of barley embryos isolated from D1 grains and D2 ones after induction of D2 at 30°C or in hypoxia at 15°C or 30°C. Total soluble proteins were analyzed by 2DE gel-based proteomics, allowing the selection of 130 differentially accumulated proteins (DAPs) among 1,575 detected spots. According to the protein abundance profiles, the DAPs were grouped into six abundance-based similarity clusters. Induction of D2 is mainly characterized by a down-accumulation of proteins belonging to cluster 3 (storage proteins, proteases, alpha-amylase inhibitors and histone deacetylase HD2) and an up-accumulation of proteins belonging to cluster 4 (1-Cys peroxiredoxin, lipoxygenase2 and caleosin). The correlation-based network analysis for each cluster highlighted central protein hub. In addition, most of genes encoding DAPs display high co-expression degree with 19 transcription factors. Finally, this work points out that similar molecular events accompany the modulation of dormancy cycling by both temperature and oxygen, including post-translational, transcriptional and epigenetic regulation.
Elongation factor TFIIS (transcription factor IIS) is structurally and biochemically probably the best characterized elongation cofactor of RNA polymerase II. However, little is known about TFIIS regulation or its roles during stress responses. Here, we show that, although TFIIS seems unnecessary under optimal conditions in Arabidopsis, its absence renders plants supersensitive to heat; tfIIs mutants die even when exposed to sublethal high temperature. TFIIS activity is required for thermal adaptation throughout the whole life cycle of plants, ensuring both survival and reproductive success. By employing a transcriptome analysis, we unravel that the absence of TFIIS makes transcriptional reprogramming sluggish, and affects expression and alternative splicing pattern of hundreds of heat-regulated transcripts. Transcriptome changes indirectly cause proteotoxic stress and deterioration of cellular pathways, including photosynthesis, which finally leads to lethality. Contrary to expectations of being constantly present to support transcription, we show that TFIIS is dynamically regulated. TFIIS accumulation during heat occurs in evolutionary distant species, including the unicellular alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, dicot Brassica napus and monocot Hordeum vulgare, suggesting that the vital role of TFIIS in stress adaptation of plants is conserved.
MADS-box transcription factors are crucial regulators of inflorescence and flower development in plants. Therefore, the recent interest in this family has received much attention in plant breeding programs due to their impact on plant development and inflorescence architecture. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of
Plants are frequently exposed to various abiotic stresses, including aluminum, cadmium and salinity stress. Barley (
Brassinosteroids (BRs) control many plant developmental processes by regulating different groups of transcription factors, and consequently gene expressions. The most known is BZR1, the main member of the BES1 family. However, to date, it is poorly characterized in crop species. The main goal of the presented study was to identify
Tiller formation is a key agronomic determinant for grain yield in cereal crops. The modulation of this trait is controlled by transcriptional regulators and plant hormones, tightly regulated by external environmental conditions. While endogenous (genetic) and exogenous (environmental factors) triggers for tiller formation have mostly been investigated separately, it has remained elusive how they are integrated into the developmental program of this trait. The transcription factor gene INTERMEDIUM-C (INT-C), which is the barley ortholog of the maize domestication gene TEOSINTE BRANCHED1 (TB1), has a prominent role in regulating tiller bud outgrowth. Here we show that INT-C is expressed in tiller buds, required for bud growth arrest in response to shade. In contrast to wild-type plants, int-c mutant plants are impaired in their shade response and do not stop tiller production after shading. Gene expression levels of INT-C are up-regulated under light-limiting growth conditions, and down-regulated after decapitation. Transcriptome analysis of wild-type and int-c buds under control and shading conditions identified target genes of INT-C that belong to auxin and gibberellin biosynthesis and signaling pathways. Our study identifies INT-C as an integrator of the shade response into tiller formation, which is prerequisite for implementing shading responses in the breeding of cereal crops.
Drought affects plant growth and development, causing severe yield losses, especially in cereal crops. The identification of genes involved in drought tolerance is crucial for the development of drought-tolerant crops. The aim of this study was to identify genes that are conserved key players for conferring drought tolerance in cereals. By comparing the transcriptomic changes between tolerant and susceptible genotypes in four Gramineae species, we identified 69 conserved drought tolerant-related (CDT) genes that are potentially involved in the drought tolerance of all of the analysed species. The CDT genes are principally involved in stress response, photosynthesis, chlorophyll biogenesis, secondary metabolism, jasmonic acid signalling, and cellular transport. Twenty CDT genes are not yet characterized and can be novel candidates for drought tolerance. The k-means clustering analysis of expression data highlighted the prominent roles of photosynthesis and leaf senescence-related mechanisms in differentiating the drought response between tolerant and sensitive genotypes. In addition, we identified specific transcription factors that could regulate the expression of photosynthesis and leaf senescence-related genes. Our analysis suggests that the balance between the induction of leaf senescence and maintenance of photosynthesis during drought plays a major role in tolerance. Fine-tuning of CDT gene expression modulation by specific transcription factors can be the key to improving drought tolerance in cereals.
High-yielding and stress-resistant crops are essential to ensure future food supply. Barley is an important crop to feed livestock and to produce malt, but the annual yield is threatened by pathogen infections. Pathogens can trigger an altered sugar partitioning in the host plant, which possibly leads to an advantage for the pathogen. Hampering these processes represents a promising strategy to potentially increase resistance. We analysed the response of the barley monosaccharide transporter HvSTP13 towards biotic stress and its potential use for plant protection. The expression of HvSTP13 increased on bacterial and fungal pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP) application, suggesting a PAMP-triggered signalling that converged on the transcriptional induction of the gene. Promoter studies indicate a region that is probably targeted by transcription factors downstream of PAMP-triggered immunity pathways. We confirmed that the nonfunctional HvSTP13GR variant confers resistance against an economically relevant biotrophic rust fungus in barley. Our experimental setup provides basal prerequisites to further decode the role of HvSTP13 in response to biological stress. Moreover, in line with other studies, our experiments indicate that the alteration of sugar partitioning pathways, in a host-pathogen interaction, is a promising approach to achieve broad and durable resistance in plants.
β-glucan is an important functional active component with relatively high content in barley. It is reported to possess various biological activities, including anti-oxidative stress, but its mechanism of action remains obscure. In the current study, C. elegans was used as an in vivo animal model to explore its anti-oxidative stress mechanism. We found that both RBG (raw barley β-glucan) and FBG (fermented barley β-glucan) could significantly reduce the ROS level in C. elegans under oxidative emergency conditions. In addition, both FBG and RBG had positive effects on SOD and CAT enzyme activity, and FBG treatment obviously reduced the MDA content in nematodes under oxidative stress. Moreover, FBG and RBG pretreatment could extend the median lifespan of C. elegans under oxidative stress. The CB1370 and CF1038 mutants further confirmed that daf-2 and daf-16 were necessary for FBG or RBG to participate in anti-oxidative stress, and the RT-PCR results also evidenced that β-glucans resist oxidative stress in C. elegans partially through the daf-2/daf-16 pathway. In summary, barley β-glucan has high potential to defense oxidative stress as a natural polysaccharide.
Protein storage vacuoles (PSVs) in aleurone cells coalesce during germination, and this process is highly coupled with mobilization of PSV reserves, allowing de novo synthesis of various hydrolases in aleurone cells for endosperm degradation. Here we show that in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) oleosins, the major integral proteins of oleosomes are encoded by four genes (HvOle1 to 4), and the expression of HvOle1 and HvOle3 is strongly up-regulated by abscisic acid (ABA), which shows antagonism to gibberellic acid. In aleurone cells, all HvOLEs were subcellularly targeted to the tonoplast of PSVs. Gain-of-function analyses revealed that HvOLE3 effectively delayed PSV coalescence, whereas HvOLE1 only had a moderate effect, with no notable effect of HvOLE2 and 4. With regard to longevity, HvOLE3 chiefly outperformed other HvOLEs, followed by HvOLE1. Experiments swapping the N- and C-terminal domain between HvOLE3 and other HvOLEs showed that the N-terminal region of HvOLE3 is mainly responsible, with some positive effect by the C-terminal region, for mediating the specific preventive effect of HvOLE3 on PSV coalescence. Three ACGT-core elements and the RY-motif were responsible for ABA induction of HvOle3 promoter activity. Transient expression assays using aleurone protoplasts demonstrated that transcriptional activation of the HvOle3 promoter was mediated by transcription factors HvABI3 and HvABI5, which acted downstream of protein kinase HvPKABA1.
As part of our continuous program to identify new potential candidates for controlling osteolytic bone diseases from natural products, the alkaloid fraction of barley (
Transition to the reproductive phase, inflorescence formation and flower development are crucial elements that ensure maximum reproductive success in a plant's life cycle. To understand the regulatory mechanisms underlying correct flower development in barley (Hordeum vulgare), we characterized the multiovary 5 (mov5.o) mutant. This mutant develops abnormal flowers that exhibit mosaic floral organs typified by multiple carpels at the total or partial expense of stamens. Genetic mapping positioned mov5 on the long arm of chromosome 2H, incorporating a region that encodes HvLFY, the barley orthologue of LEAFY from Arabidopsis. Sequencing revealed that, in mov5.o plants, HvLFY contains a single amino acid substitution in a highly conserved proline residue. CRISPR-mediated knockout of HvLFY replicated the mov5.o phenotype, suggesting that HvLFY
Temperature stresses affect plant phenotypic diversity. The developmental stability of the inflorescence, required for reproductive success, is tightly regulated by the interplay of genetic and environmental factors. However, the mechanisms underpinning how plant inflorescence architecture responds to temperature are largely unknown. We demonstrate that the barley SEPALLATA MADS-box protein HvMADS1 is responsible for maintaining an unbranched spike architecture at high temperatures, while the loss-of-function mutant forms a branched inflorescence-like structure. HvMADS1 exhibits increased binding to target promoters via A-tract CArG-box motifs, which change conformation with temperature. Target genes for high-temperature-dependent HvMADS1 activation are predominantly associated with inflorescence differentiation and phytohormone signalling. HvMADS1 directly regulates the cytokinin-degrading enzyme HvCKX3 to integrate temperature response and cytokinin homeostasis, which is required to repress meristem cell cycle/division. Our findings reveal a mechanism by which genetic factors direct plant thermomorphogenesis, extending the recognized role of plant MADS-box proteins in floral development.
Aluminum oxide and zinc oxide nanoparticles (NPs) are two of the mostly produced engineered metal oxide NPs. Here, barley germination and root elongation as well as gene expressions of the selected aquaporins (HvTip1;1 and HvPip1;1) and transcription factors (HvERFs and HvNFX1) were investigated after exposure to Al
Hypoxia stress can be caused by submergence or pathogen infection. These two stresses often occur sequentially or at the same time in nature. Therefore, plants have evolved economical and efficient strategies to deal with them, such as "single-gene multi-functions", that is, one gene could play roles in hypoxia or pathogen responses at the corresponding stress. This review mainly introduces the ERF-VII (ethylene response factor VII) and WRKYs (WRKY transcription factors) that can play roles in these two stresses. Meanwhile, the relationship between hypoxia and pathology has certain similarities in animals and plants, so we can learn from their related studies and develop new ideas for disease therapy and breeding.
The WRKY transcription factors (WRKYs) are known for their crucial roles in biotic and abiotic stress responses, and developmental and physiological processes. In barley, early studies revealed their importance, whereas their diversity at the population scale remains hardly estimated. In this study, 98
The basic leucine zipper (bZIP) family of genes encode transcription factors that play key roles in plant growth and development. In this study, a total of 92
Plants have evolved complex mechanisms to adapt to the changing nitrogen levels in the environment. In Arabidopsis, more than a dozen nitrate signaling regulatory genes have been characterized, including the NODULE INCEPTION-LIKE PROTEIN (AtNLP) genes, which play essential roles in nitrate signaling. However, whether NLP genes in the Triticeae crops are involved in nitrate regulation and nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) remains unknown. Here, we isolated a barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) mutant, hvnlp2-1, from a TILLING (Targeting Local Lesions IN Genomes) population and constructed two RNAi lines, hvnlp2-2 and hvnlp2-3, to study the function of HvNLP2. The expression of the nitrate-responsive genes was substantially inhibited after nitrate treatment in the hvnlp2 mutants, indicating that HvNLP2 controls nitrate signaling. Nitrate content was significantly higher in the hvnlp2 mutants, which may result from the decreased assimilation of nitrogen caused by reduced nitrate reductase activity and expression of nitrate assimilatory genes. HvNLP2 is localized to the nucleus in the presence of nitrate. Further investigation showed that HvNLP2 binds to and activates the nitrate-responsive cis-elements. Moreover, hvnlp2 exhibited reduced biomass, seed yield, and NUE. Therefore, HvNLP2 controls nitrate signaling and plays an important role in NUE.
The APETAL2/Ethylene Responsive Factor (AP2/ERF) family was the subject of intensive research which led to the identification of several members involved in different stress responses such as salinity, drought and high temperature. The SHN/WIN clade of AP2/ERF participates in many important processes such as cutin and wax biosynthesis, ethylene signaling and gene expression. Here, we report the functional analysis of SHN1-type transcription factor, HvSHN1, from barely. The overexpression of HvSHN1 under the control of the duplicated 35S promoter in transgenic tobacco plants improved tolerance to salt, water stress and heat stress. Transgenic lines exhibited altered permeability of the cuticle and decreased stomatal density. Under heat stress, HvSHN1 transgenic lines exhibited higher superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activity and lower MDA and H
Cereal crops, such as oats and barley, possess a number of valuable properties that meet the requirements for functional diet components. This review summarized the available information about bioactive compounds of oat and barley grain. The results of studying the structure and physicochemical properties of the cell wall polysaccharides of barley and oat are presented. The main components of the flavonoids formation pathway are shown and data, concerning anthocyanins biosynthesis in various barley tissues, are discussed. Moreover, we analyzed the available information about structural and regulatory genes of anthocyanin biosynthesis in
Barley has abundant anthocyanin-rich accessions, which renders it an ideal model to investigate the regulatory mechanism of anthocyanin biosynthesis. This study functionally characterized two transcription factors: Ant1 and Ant2. Sequence alignment showed that the coding sequences of
Extracts from barley seedlings (BS) have known antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. The flavonoid lutonarin (LN) is a component of BS extract and has several known bioactivities. Here, we evaluated LN anti-inflammatory efficacy against lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages. Lutonarin was isolated from BS by methanol extraction and characterized by ultra-performance liquid chromatography and quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS). Lutonarin did not reduce the viability or enhance the apoptosis rate of RAW 264.7 macrophages at concentrations up to 150 µM. Concentrations within 20-60 µM dose-dependently suppressed the LPS-induced expression, phosphorylation, and nuclear translocation of the inflammatory transcription factor nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB). Furthermore, LN suppressed the LPS-induced upregulation of proinflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and of the inflammatory enzyme cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Lutonarin may be a safe and effective therapeutic agent for alleviation of pathological inflammation.
Barley is known to be recalcitrant to tissue culture, which hinders genetic transformation and its biotechnological application. To date, the ideal explant for transformation remains limited to immature embryos; the mechanism underlying embryonic callus formation is elusive. This study aimed to uncover the different transcription regulation pathways between calli formed from immature (IME) and mature (ME) embryos through transcriptome sequencing. We showed that incubation of embryos in an auxin-rich medium caused dramatic changes in gene expression profiles within 48 h. Overall, 9330 and 11,318 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were found in the IME and ME systems, respectively. 3880 DEGs were found to be specific to IME_0h/IME_48h, and protein phosphorylation, regulation of transcription, and oxidative-reduction processes were the most common gene ontology categories of this group. Twenty-three IAA, fourteen ARF, eight SAUR, three YUC, and four PIN genes were found to be differentially expressed during callus formation. The effect of callus-inducing medium (CIM) on IAA genes was broader in the IME system than in the ME system, indicating that auxin response participates in regulating cell reprogramming during callus formation. BBM, LEC1, and PLT2 exhibited a significant increase in expression levels in the IME system but were not activated in the ME system. WUS showed a more substantial growth trend in the IME system than in the ME system, suggesting that these embryonic, shoot, and root meristem genes play crucial roles in determining the acquisition of competency. Moreover, epigenetic regulators, including SUVH3A, SUVH2A, and HDA19B/703, exhibited differential expression patterns between the two induction systems, indicating that epigenetic reprogramming might contribute to gene expression activation/suppression in this process. Furthermore, we examined the effect of ectopic expression of HvBBM and HvWUS on Agrobacterium-mediated barley transformation. The transformation efficiency in the group expressing the PLTPpro:HvBBM + Axig1pro:HvWUS construct was increased by three times that in the control (empty vector) because of enhanced plant regeneration capacity. We identified some regulatory factors that might contribute to the differential responses of the two explants to callus induction and provide a promising strategy to improve transformation efficiency in barley.
Carpel is the ovule-bearing female reproductive organ of flowering plants and is required to ensure its protection, an efficient fertilization, and the development of diversified types of fruits, thereby it is a vital element of most food crops. The origin and morphological changes of the carpel are key to the evolution and adaption of angiosperms. Progresses have been made in elucidating the developmental mechanisms of carpel establishment in the model eudicot plant
Cereal grain develops from fertilised florets. Alterations in floret and grain development greatly influence grain yield and quality. Despite this, little is known about the underlying genetic control of these processes, especially in key temperate cereals such as barley and wheat. Using a combination of near-isogenic mutant comparisons, gene editing and genetic analyses, we reveal that HvAPETALA2 (HvAP2) controls floret organ identity, floret boundaries, and maternal tissue differentiation and elimination during grain development. These new roles of HvAP2 correlate with changes in grain size and HvAP2-dependent expression of specific HvMADS-box genes, including the B-sister gene,
The albino lemma 1 (alm1) mutants of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) exhibit obvious chlorophyll-deficient hulls. Hulls are seed-enclosing tissues on the spike, consisting of the lemma and palea. The alm1 phenotype is also expressed in the pericarp, culm nodes and basal leaf sheaths, but leaf blades and awns are normal green. A single recessive nuclear gene controls tissue-specific alm1 phenotypic expression. Positional cloning revealed that the ALM1 gene encodes a Golden 2-like (GLK) transcription factor, HvGLK2, belonging to the GARP subfamily of Myb transcription factors. This finding was validated by genetic evidence indicating that all 10 alm1 mutants studied had a lesion in functionally important regions of HvGLK2, including the three alpha-helix domains, an AREAEAA motif and the GCT box. Transmission electron microscopy revealed that, in lemmas of the alm1.g mutant, the chloroplasts lacked thylakoid membranes, instead of stacked thylakoid grana in wild-type chloroplasts. Compared with wild type, alm1.g plants showed similar levels of leaf photosynthesis but reduced spike photosynthesis by 34%. The alm1.g mutant and the alm1.a mutant showed a reduction in 100-grain weight by 15.8% and 23.1%, respectively. As in other plants, barley has HvGLK2 and a paralog, HvGLK1. In flag leaves and awns, HvGLK2 and HvGLK1 are expressed at moderate levels, but in hulls, HvGLK1 expression was barely detectable compared with HvGLK2. Barley alm1/Hvglk2 mutants exhibit more severe phenotypes than glk2 mutants of other plant species reported to date. The severe alm1 phenotypic expression in multiple tissues indicates that HvGLK2 plays some roles that are nonredundant with HvGLK1.
We profiled the grain oligosaccharide content of 154 two-row spring barley genotypes and quantified 27 compounds, mainly inulin- and neoseries-type fructans, showing differential abundance. Clustering revealed two profile groups where the 'high' set contained greater amounts of sugar monomers, sucrose, and overall fructans, but lower fructosylraffinose. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) identified a significant association for the variability of two fructan types: neoseries-DP7 and inulin-DP9, which showed increased strength when applying a novel compound ratio-GWAS approach. Gene models within this region included three known fructan biosynthesis genes (fructan:fructan 1-fructosyltransferase, sucrose:sucrose 1-fructosyltransferase, and sucrose:fructan 6-fructosyltransferase). Two other genes in this region, 6(G)-fructosyltransferase and vacuolar invertase1, have not previously been linked to fructan biosynthesis and showed expression patterns distinct from those of the other three genes, including exclusive expression of 6(G)-fructosyltransferase in outer grain tissues at the storage phase. From exome capture data, several single nucleotide polymorphisms related to inulin- and neoseries-type fructan variability were identified in fructan:fructan 1-fructosyltransferase and 6(G)-fructosyltransferase genes. Co-expression analyses uncovered potential regulators of fructan biosynthesis including transcription factors. Our results provide the first scientific evidence for the distinct biosynthesis of neoseries-type fructans during barley grain maturation and reveal novel gene candidates likely to be involved in the differential biosynthesis of various types of fructan in barley.
Microspore embryogenesis is potentially the most effective method of obtaining doubled haploids (DH) which are utilized in breeding programs to accelerate production of new cultivars. However, the regeneration of albino plants significantly limits the exploitation of androgenesis for DH production in cereals. Despite many efforts, the precise mechanisms leading to development of albino regenerants have not yet been elucidated. The objective of this study was to reveal the genotype-dependent molecular differences in chloroplast differentiation that lead to the formation of green and albino regenerants in microspore culture of barley. We performed a detailed analysis of plastid differentiation at successive stages of androgenesis in two barley cultivars, 'Jersey' and 'Mercada' that differed in their ability to produce green regenerants. We demonstrated the lack of transition from the NEP-dependent to PEP-dependent transcription in plastids of cv. 'Mercada' that produced mostly albino regenerants in microspore culture. The failed NEP-to-PEP transition was associated with the lack of activity of Sig2 gene encoding a sigma factor necessary for transcription of plastid rRNA genes. A very low level of 16S and 23S rRNA transcripts and impaired plastid translation machinery resulted in the inhibition of photomorphogenesis in regenerating embryos and albino regenerants. Furthermore, the plastids present in differentiating 'Mercada' embryos contained a low number of plastome copies whose replication was not always completed. Contrary to 'Mercada', cv. 'Jersey' that produced 90% green regenerants, showed the high activity of PEP polymerase, the highly increased expression of Sig2, plastid rRNAs and tRNA Proplastids present in microspore-derived embryos of albino-producing genotypes did not pass the early checkpoints of their development that are required for induction of further light-dependent differentiation of chloroplasts. The failed activation of plastid-encoded RNA polymerase during differentiation of embryos was associated with the genotype-dependent inability to regenerate green plants in barley microspore culture. The better understanding of molecular mechanisms underlying formation of albino regenerants may be helpful in overcoming the problem of albinism in cereal androgenesis.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is one of the most important cereals worldwide. Although this crop is drought-tolerant, water deficiency negatively affects its growth and production. To detect key genes involved in drought tolerance in barley, a reconstruction of the related gene network and discovery of the hub genes would help. Here, drought-responsive genes in barley were collected through analysis of the available microarray datasets (- 5 ≥ Fold change ≥ 5, adjusted p value ≤ 0.05). Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were reconstructed. The hub genes were identified by Cytoscape software using three Cyto-hubba algorithms (Degree, Closeness, and MNC), leading to the identification of 17 and 16 non-redundant genes at vegetative and reproductive stages, respectively. These genes consist of some transcription factors such as HvVp1, HvERF4, HvFUS3, HvCBF6, DRF1.3, HvNAC6, HvCO5, and HvWRKY42, which belong to AP2, NAC, Zinc-finger, and WRKY families. In addition, the expression pattern of four hub genes was compared between the two studied cultivars, i.e., "Yousef" (drought-tolerant) and "Morocco" (susceptible). The results of real-time PCR revealed that the expression patterns corresponded well with those determined by the microarray. Also, promoter analysis revealed that some TF families, including AP2, NAC, Trihelix, MYB, and one modular (composed of two HD-ZIP TFs), had a binding site in 85% of promoters of the drought-responsive genes and of the hub genes in barley. The identified hub genes, especially those from AP2 and NAC families, might be among key TFs that regulate drought-stress response in barley and are suggested as promising candidate genes for further functional analysis.
Plants recognize pathogens and activate immune responses, which usually involve massive transcriptional reprogramming. The evolutionarily conserved kinase, Sucrose non-fermenting-related kinase 1 (SnRK1), functions as a metabolic regulator that is essential for plant growth and stress responses. Here, we identify barley SnRK1 and a WRKY3 transcription factor by screening a cDNA library. SnRK1 interacts with WRKY3 in yeast, as confirmed by pull-down and luciferase complementation assays. Förster resonance energy transfer combined with noninvasive fluorescence lifetime imaging analysis indicates that the interaction occurs in the barley nucleus. Transient expression and virus-induced gene silencing analyses indicate that WRKY3 acts as a repressor of disease resistance to the
Cobalt (Co) and copper (Cu) co-exist commonly in the contaminated soils and at excessive levels, they are toxic to plants. However, their joint effect and possible interaction have not been fully addressed. In this work, a hydroponic experiment was performed to investigate the combined effects of Co and Cu on two barley genotypes at transcriptional level by RNA-seq analysis. The results identified 358 genes inclusively expressed in both genotypes under single and combined treatments of Co and Cu, with most of them being related to metal transport, stress response and transcription factor. The combined treatment induced more differently expressed genes (DEGs) than the single treatment, with Yan66, a metal tolerant genotype having more DEGs than Ea52, a sensitive genotype. The pathways associated with anthocyanin biosynthesis, MAPK signaling, glutathione biosynthesis, phenylalanine metabolism, photosynthesis, arginin biosynthesis, fatty acid elongation, and plant hormone signal transduction biosynthesis were induced and inhibited in Yan66 and Ea52, respectively. Furthermore, flavonoid biosynthesis was much more largely enhanced and accordingly more free flavonoid components (naringin, narirutin and neohesperidin) were accumulated in Yan66 than in Ea52. It may be suggested that high tolerance to both Co and Cu in Yan66 is attributed to its high gene regulatory ability.
Barley scald, caused by the fungus Rhynchosporium commune, is distributed worldwide to all barley growing areas especially in cool and humid climates. Scald is an economically important leaf disease resulting in yield losses of up to 40%. To breed resistant cultivars the identification of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) conferring resistance to scald is necessary. Introgressing promising resistance alleles of wild barley is a way to broaden the genetic basis of scald resistance in cultivated barley. Here, we apply nested association mapping (NAM) to map resistance QTLs in the barley NAM population HEB-25, comprising 1420 lines in BC In scald infection trials in the greenhouse variability of resistance across and within HEB-25 families was found. NAM based on 33,005 informative SNPs resulted in the identification of eight reliable QTLs for resistance against scald with most wild alleles increasing resistance as compared to cv. Barke. Three of them are located in the region of known resistance genes and two in the regions of QTLs, respectively. The most promising wild allele was found at Rrs17 in one specific wild donor. Also, novel QTLs with beneficial wild allele effects on scald resistance were detected. To sum up, wild barley represents a rich resource for scald resistance. As the QTLs were linked to the physical map the identified candidate genes will facilitate cloning of the scald resistance genes. The closely linked flanking molecular markers can be used for marker-assisted selection of the respective resistance genes to integrate them in elite cultivars.
CBP20 (Cap-Binding Protein 20) encodes a small subunit of nuclear Cap-Binding Complex (nCBC) that together with CBP80 binds mRNA cap. We previously described barley hvcbp20.ab mutant that demonstrated higher leaf water content and faster stomatal closure than the WT after drought stress. Hence, we presumed that the better water-saving mechanism in hvcbp20.ab may result from the lower permeability of epidermis that together with stomata action limit the water evaporation under drought stress. We asked whether hvcbp20.ab exhibited any differences in wax load on the leaf surface when subjected to drought in comparison to WT cv. 'Sebastian'. To address this question, we investigated epicuticular wax structure and chemical composition under drought stress in hvcbp20.ab mutant and its WT. We showed that hvcbp20.ab mutant exhibited the increased deposition of cuticular wax. Moreover, our gene expression results suggested a role of HvCBP20 as a negative regulator of both, the biosynthesis of waxes at the level of alkane-forming, and waxes transportation. Interestingly, we also observed increased wax deposition in Arabidopsis cbp20 mutant exposed to drought, which allowed us to describe the CBP20-regulated epicuticular wax accumulation under drought stress in a wider evolutionarily context.
Plant-specific TEOSINTE BRANCHED 1/CYCLOIDEA/PROLIFERATING CELL FACTORS 1/2 (TCP) transcription factors have known roles in inflorescence architecture. In barley, there are two family members INTERMEDIUM-C (INT-c/HvTB1-1) and COMPOSITUM 1 (COM1/HvTCP24) which are involved in the manipulation of spike architecture, whereas the participation of TCP family genes in selection from wild (Hordeum vulgare subsp. spontaneum, Hs) to cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare subsp. vulgare, Hv) remains poorly investigated. Here, by conducting a genome-wide survey for TCP-like sequences in publicly-released datasets, 22 HsTCP and 20 HvTCP genes encoded for mature proteins were identified and assigned into two classes (I and II) based on their functional domains and the phylogenetic analysis. Each counterpart of the orthologous gene in wild and cultivated barley usually represented a similarity on the transcriptional profile across the tissues. The diversity analysis of TCPs in 90 wild barley accessions and 137 landraces with geographically-referenced passport information revealed the detectable selection at three loci including INT-c/HvTB1-1, HvPCF2, and HvPCF8. Especially, the HvPCF8 haplotypes in cultivated barley were found correlating with their geographical collection sites. There was no difference observed in either transactivation activity in yeast or subcellular localization in Nicotiana benthamiana among these haplotypes. Nevertheless, the genome-wide diversity analysis of barley TCP genes in wild and cultivated populations provided insight for future functional characterization in plant development such as spike architecture.
Two key barley genes independently control anthesis and senescence timing, enabling the manipulation of grain fill duration, grain size/plumpness, and grain protein concentration. Plant developmental processes such as flowering and senescence have direct effects on cereal yield and quality. Previous work highlighted the importance of two tightly linked genes encoding a glycine-rich RNA-binding protein (HvGR-RBP1) and a NAC transcription factor (HvNAM1), controlling barley anthesis timing, senescence, and percent grain protein. Varieties that differ in HvGR-RBP1 expression, 'Karl'(low) and 'Lewis'(high), also differ in sequence 1 KB upstream of translation start site, including an ~ 400 bp G rich insertion in the 5'-flanking region of the 'Karl' allele, which could disrupt gene expression. To improve malt quality, the (low-grain protein, delayed-senescence) 'Karl' HvNAM1 allele was introgressed into Montana germplasm. After several seasons of selection, the resulting germplasm was screened for the allelic combinations of HvGR-RBP1 and HvNAM1, finding lines combining 'Karl' alleles for both genes (-/-), lines combining 'Lewis' (functional, expressed) HvGR-RBP1 with 'Karl' HvNAM1 alleles ( ±), and lines combining 'Lewis' alleles for both genes (+ / +). Field experiments indicate that the functional ('Lewis,' +) HvGR-RBP1 allele is associated with earlier anthesis and with slightly shorter plants, while the 'Karl' (-) HvNAM1 allele delays maturation. Genotypes carrying the ± allele combination therefore had a significantly (3 days) extended grain fill duration, leading to a higher percentage of plump kernels, slightly enhanced test weight, and lower grain protein concentration when compared to the other allele combinations. Overall, our data suggest an important function for HvGR-RBP1 in the control of barley reproductive development and set the stage for a more detailed functional analysis of this gene.
A family of genes designated as the Zinc finger A20/AN1 Transcription factors encoding stress-associated proteins (SAP) are well described in Arabidopsis and rice, and include 14 AtSAP and 18 OsSAP genes that are associated with variable tolerances to multiple abiotic stresses. The SAP gene family displays a great diversity in its structure and across different plant species. The aim of this study was to identify all HvSAP genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), to analyse the expression of selected genes in response to salinity in barley leaves and develop SNP marker for HvSAP12 to evaluate the association between genotypes of barley plants and their grain yield in field trials. In our study, 17 HvSAP genes were identified in barley, which were strongly homologous to rice genes. Five genes, HvSAP5, HvSAP6, HvSAP11, HvSAP12 and HvSAP15, were found to be highly expressed in leaves of barley plants in response to salt stress in hydroponics compared to controls, using both semi-quantitative RT-PCR and qPCR analyses. The Amplifluor-like SNP marker KATU-B30 was developed and used for HvSAP12 genotyping. A strong association (R A group of HvSAP genes, and HvSAP12 in particular, play an important role in the tolerance of barley plants to salinity and drought, and is associated with higher grain yield in field trials. Marker-assisted selection with SNP marker KATU-B30 can be applied in barley breeding to improve grain yield production under conditions of abiotic stress.
The naked caryopsis character in barley is a domestication-associated trait defined by loss-of-function of the NUD gene. The functional NUD gene encodes an Apetala 2/Ethylene-Response Factor (AP2/ERF) controlling the formation of a cementing layer between pericarp and both lemma and palea. The downstream genes regulated by the NUD transcription factor and molecular mechanism of a cementing layer formation are still not sufficiently described. A naturally occurring 17-kb deletion in the nud locus is associated with the emergence of naked barley. Naked barley has been traditionally used for food and nowadays is considered as a dietary component for functional nutrition. In the present study, we demonstrate that targeted knockout of the NUD gene using RNA-guided Cas9 endonuclease leads to the phenotype conversion from hulled to naked barley. Using in vivo pre-testing systems, highly effective guide RNAs targeting the first exon of the NUD gene were selected. Expression cassettes harboring the cas9 and guide RNA genes were used to transform barley cv. Golden Promise via Agrobacterium-mediated DNA transfer. The recessive naked grain phenotype was observed in 57% of primary transformants, which indicates a frequent occurrence of homozygous or biallelic mutations. T-DNA-free homozygous lines with independently generated mutations in the NUD gene were obtained in the T1 generation. At homozygous state, all obtained mutations including one- and two-amino acid losses with the translational reading frame being retained invariably caused the naked grain phenotype. The hulled and naked barley isogenic lines generated are a perfect experimental model for further studies on pleiotropic consequences of nud mutations on overall plant performance under particular consideration of yield-determining traits. Due to the high β-glucan content of its grains, naked barley is considered as being of particular dietary value. The possibility to convert hulled into naked barley cultivars by targeted mutagenesis allows breeders to extend the potential utilization of barley by the provision of functional food.
MicroProteins are small, often single-domain proteins that are sequence-related to larger, often multidomain proteins. Here, we used a combination of comparative genomics and heterologous synthetic misexpression to isolate functional cereal microProtein regulators. Our approach identified LITTLE NINJA (LNJ), a microProtein that acts as a modulator of jasmonic acid (JA) signaling. Ectopic expression of
The mechanisms of highland barley whole grain (BWG) with rich phenolics on obese db/db mice were investigated in this study. Oral consumption of BWG reduced food intake, body weight, organ/body weight indexes of liver and fat, levels of serum and hepatic lipids, liver injury, and oxidative stress. Furthermore, BWG recovered the disorder of cecal microbiota by augmenting the
Overexpressing a heat shock factor gene (TaHsfA6bT) from wheat provides thermotolerance in barley by constitutive expression of heat and other abiotic stress-response genes. Temperature is one of the most crucial abiotic factors defining the yield potential of temperate cereal crops, such as barley. The regulators of heat shock response (HSR), heat stress transcription factors (Hsfs), modulate the transcription level of heat-responsive genes to protect the plants from heat stress. In this study, an Hsf from wheat (TaHsfA6b) is overexpressed in barley for providing thermotolerance. Transgenic barley lines overexpressing TaHsfA6b showed improvement in thermotolerance. The constitutive overexpression of a TaHsfA6b gene upregulated the expression of major heat shock proteins and other abiotic stress-responsive genes. RNA-seq and qRT-PCR analysis confirmed the upregulation of Hsps, chaperonins, DNAJ, LEA protein genes, and genes related to anti-oxidative enzymes in transgenic lines. Excessive generation and accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) occurred in wild-type (WT) plants during heat stress; however, the transgenic lines reflected improved ROS homeostasis mechanisms, showing lesser ROS accumulation under high temperature. No negative phenotypic changes were observed in overexpression lines. These results suggest that TaHsfA6b is a regulator of HSR and its overexpression altered the expression patterns of some main stress-related genes and enhanced the thermotolerance of this cereal crop.
Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) is a highly conserved kinase present in all eukaryotes and functions as a key regulator of a wide range of physiological and developmental processes. The kinase, known in land plants as GSK3/SHAGGY-like kinase (GSK), is a key player in the brassinosteroid (BR) signaling pathway. The
Barley possesses a branchless, spike-shaped inflorescence where determinate spikelets attach directly to the main axis, but the developmental mechanism of spikelet identity remains largely unknown. Here we report the functional analysis of the barley gene BRANCHED AND INDETERMINATE SPIKELET 1 (BDI1), which encodes a TCP transcription factor and plays a crucial role in determining barley inflorescence architecture and spikelet development. The bdi1 mutant exhibited indeterminate spikelet meristems that continued to grow and differentiate after producing a floret meristem; some spikelet meristems at the base of the spike formed two fully developed seeds or converted to branched spikelets, producing a branched inflorescence. Map-based cloning analysis showed that this mutant has a deletion of ~600 kb on chromosome 5H containing three putative genes. Expression analysis and virus-induced gene silencing confirmed that the causative gene, BDI1, encodes a CYC/TB1-type TCP transcription factor and is highly conserved in both wild and cultivated barley. Transcriptome and regulatory network analysis demonstrated that BDI1 may integrate regulation of gene transcription cell wall modification and known trehalose-6-phosphate homeostasis to control spikelet development. Together, our findings reveal that BDI1 represents a key regulator of inflorescence architecture and meristem determinacy in cereal crop plants.
Understanding the control of fertility is critical for crop yield and breeding; this is particularly important for hybrid breeding to capitalize upon the resultant hybrid vigour. Different hybrid breeding systems have been adopted; however, these are challenging and crop specific. Mutants with environmentally reversible fertility offer valuable opportunities for hybrid breeding. The barley HvMS1 gene encodes a PHD-finger transcription factor that is expressed in the anther tapetum, which is essential for pollen development and causes complete male sterility when overexpressed in barley. This male sterility is due at least in part to indehiscent anthers resulting from incomplete tapetum degeneration, failure of anther opening, and sticky pollen under normal growth conditions (15 °C). However, dehiscence and fertility are restored when plants are grown at temperatures >20 °C, or when transferred to >20 °C during flowering prior to pollen mitosis I, with transfer at later stages unable to rescue fertility in vivo. As far as we are aware, this is the first report of thermosensitive male sterility in barley. This offers opportunities to understand the impact of temperature on pollen development and potential applications for environmentally switchable hybrid breeding systems; it also provides a 'female' male-sterile breeding tool that does not need emasculation to facilitate backcrossing.
Promoters serve a critical role in establishing baseline transcriptional capacity through the recruitment of proteins, including transcription factors. Previously, a paucity of data for cis-regulatory elements in plants meant that it was challenging to determine which sequence elements in plant promoter sequences contributed to transcriptional function. In this study, we have identified functional elements in the promoters of plant genes and plant pathogens that utilize plant transcriptional machinery for gene expression. We have established a quantitative experimental system to investigate transcriptional function, investigating how identity, density and position contribute to regulatory function. We then identified permissive architectures for minimal synthetic plant promoters enabling the computational design of a suite of synthetic promoters of different strengths. These have been used to regulate the relative expression of output genes in simple genetic devices.
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major abiotic stress that restricts crop production in acid soils. Plants have evolved internal and external mechanisms of tolerance, and among them it is well known that AtSTOP1 and OsART1 are key transcription factors involved in tolerance through regulation of multiple downstream genes. Here, we identified the closest homolog of these two proteins in barley, namely HvATF1, Al-tolerance Transcription Factor 1, and determined its potential function in Al stress. HvATF1 is expressed in the nucleus, and functions in transcriptional activation. The transcription of HvATF1 was found to be constitutive in different tissues, and was little affected by Al stress. Knockdown of HvATF1 by RNAi resulted in increased Al sensitivity. Transcriptomics analysis identified 64 differently expressed genes in the RNAi lines compared to the wild-type, and these were considered as candidate downstream genes regulated by HvATF1. This study provides insights into the different molecular mechanisms of Al tolerance in barley and other plants.
Brassinosteroids (BR) are plant-based steroids which influence several morphogenetic and developmental processes. A barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) genotype Kinai Kyoshinkai-2 (KK-2) carrying the uzu mutation exhibited altered starch granule size distribution. Hybridizing KK-2 with a barley genotype CDC Kendall with bi-modal starch granules produced progeny lines (116, 144 and 168) with almost uni-modal starch granules. Bioassays correlated uzu mutation with defective BR perception. DNA sequence analysis of the BR receptor-1 (BRI-1) gene detected a single-nucleotide A > G substitution at the position 2612 in the kinase domain which resulted in the change of His (CAC) to Arg (CGC) at residue 857 in subdomain IV of the kinase domain of the respective polypeptide. The study focused on the development of barley grain, accumulation of starch and composition influenced by defective BR perception due to the mutation detected in KK-2 and three other barley-breeding lines (116, 144 and 168). Aberrant BRI-1 delayed grain development, amylose synthesis and starch accumulation in the endosperm. The barley breeding lines 116, 144 and 168 carrying the aberrant BRI-1, exhibited altered granule size distribution with significant shift in the diameter maxima, but insignificant differences in amylose concentration. The BRI-1 mutation also altered amylopectin fine structure in both B- and C- type small starch granules, resulting in an increased fraction of short A-type glucan chains (<10 DP) and decreased fraction of B2 chains (25-36 DP) in genotypes carrying the BRI-1 mutation. The results show the influence of BR on barley grain development, starch accumulation, granule size distribution and amylopectin structure.
Powdery mildew is an important foliar disease of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) caused by the biotrophic fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh). The understanding of the resistance mechanism is essential for future resistance breeding. In particular, the identification of race-nonspecific resistance genes is important because of their regarded durability and broad-spectrum activity. We assessed the severity of powdery mildew infection on detached seedling leaves of 267 barley accessions using two poly-virulent isolates and performed a genome-wide association study exploiting 201 of these accessions. Two-hundred and fourteen markers, located on six barley chromosomes are associated with potential race-nonspecific Bgh resistance or susceptibility. Initial steps for the functional validation of four promising candidates were performed based on phenotype and transcription data. Specific candidate alleles were analyzed via transient gene silencing as well as transient overexpression. Microarray data of the four selected candidates indicate differential regulation of the transcription in response to Bgh infection. Based on our results, all four candidate genes seem to be involved in the responses to powdery mildew attack. In particular, the transient overexpression of specific alleles of two candidate genes, a potential arabinogalactan protein and the barley homolog of Arabidopsis thaliana's Light-Response Bric-a-Brac/-Tramtrack/-Broad Complex/-POxvirus and Zinc finger (AtLRB1) or AtLRB2, were top candidates of novel powdery mildew susceptibility genes.
Seed germination is a multi-staged complex process during seed plant life cycle, and it is tightly regulated through a coordinated expression of diverse genes in diverse tissues. As regulatory molecules of gene expression, determination of transcription factors is crucial to understanding molecular basis and regulatory network of germination process and seedling establishment. However, limited data on the contributions of these transcription factors to the germination of crop barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) are available. Here, we investigated the expression profiles of selected transcription factors from different families (DOF, MYB and TCP) with qRT-PCR analysis in various tissues including coleoptiles, leaves and roots following the germination. Analysis of MYB and DOF gene expression profiles indicated that there were differing expressions in different aged tissues, HvMYB5 and HvDOF2 being the most outstanding one in the oldest tissue, 15-day-old root. On the other hand, investigated TCP genes were lowly expressed compared to selected MYB and DOF genes, except HvTCP3, where the highest expression was observed in 15-day-old root tissue. The obtained expression profiles illustrate the importance of potential regulatory roles of transcription factors in early developmental stages of barley germination and seedling establishment.
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is the primary limiting factor of crop production on acid soils. Tibetan wild barley germplasm is a valuable source of potential genes for breeding barley with acid and Al tolerance. We performed microRNA and RNA sequencing using wild (XZ16, Al-tolerant; XZ61, Al-sensitive) and cultivated (Dayton, Al-tolerant) barley. A novel homeobox-leucine zipper transcription factor, HvHOX9, was identified as a target gene of miR166b and functionally characterized. HvHOX9 was up-regulated by Al stress in XZ16 (but unchanged in XZ61 and Dayton) and was significantly induced only in root tip. Phylogenetic analysis showed that HvHOX9 is most closely related to wheat TaHOX9 and orthologues of HvHOX9 are present in the closest algal relatives of Zygnematophyceae. Barley stripe mosaic virus-induced gene silencing of HvHOX9 in XZ16 led to significantly increased Al sensitivity but did not affect its sensitivity to other metals and low pH. Disruption of HvHOX9 did not change Al concentration in the root cell sap, but led to more Al accumulation in root cell wall after Al exposure. Silencing of HvHOX9 decreased H+ influx after Al exposure. Our findings suggest that miR166b/HvHOX9 play a critical role in Al tolerance by decreasing root cell wall Al binding and increasing apoplastic pH for Al detoxification in the root.
Drought and salinity are two of the most frequently co-occurring abiotic stresses. Despite recent advances in the elucidation of the effects of these stresses individually during the vegetative stage of plants, significant gaps exist in our understanding of the combined effects of these two frequently co-occurring stresses. Here, Tibetan wild barley XZ5 (drought tolerant), XZ16 (salt tolerant), and cultivated barley
Modulation of traits beneficial for cultivation and yield is one of the main goals of crop improvement. One of the targets for enhancing productivity is changing the architecture of inflorescences since in many species it determines fruit and seed yield. Inflorescence shape and organization is genetically established during the early stages of reproductive development and depends on the number, arrangement, activities, and duration of meristems during the reproductive phase of the plant life cycle. Despite the variety of inflorescence architectures observable in nature, many key aspects of inflorescence development are conserved among different species. For instance, the genetic network in charge of specifying the identity of the different reproductive meristems, which can be indeterminate or determinate, seems to be similar among distantly related species. The availability of a large number of published transcriptomic datasets for plants with different inflorescence architectures, allowed us to identify transcription factor gene families that are differentially expressed in determinate and indeterminate reproductive meristems. The data that we review here for Arabidopsis, rice, barley, wheat, and maize, particularly deepens our knowledge of their involvement in meristem identity specification.
Considering the complex nature of salinity tolerance mechanisms, the use of isogenic lines or mutants possessing the same genetic background albeit different tolerance to salinity is a suitable method for reduction of analytical complexity to study these mechanisms. In the present study, whole transcriptome analysis was evaluated using RNA-seq method between a salt-tolerant mutant line "M4-73-30" and its wild-type "Zarjou" cultivar at seedling stage after six hours of exposure to salt stress (300 mM NaCl). Transcriptome sequencing yielded 20 million reads for each genotype. A total number of 7116 transcripts with differential expression were identified, 1586 and 1479 of which were obtained with significantly increased expression in the mutant and the wild-type, respectively. In addition, the families of WRKY, ERF, AP2/EREBP, NAC, CTR/DRE, AP2/ERF, MAD, MIKC, HSF, and bZIP were identified as the important transcription factors with specific expression in the mutant genotype. The RNA-seq results were confirmed at several time points using qRT-PCR for some important salt-responsive genes. In general, the results revealed that the mutant accumulated higher levels of sodium ion in the root and decreased its transfer to the shoot. Also, the mutant increased the amount of potassium ion leading to the maintenance a high ratio [K+]/[Na+] in the shoot compared to its wild-type via fast stomata closure and consequently transpiration reduction under the salt stress. Moreover, a reduction in photosynthesis and respiration was observed in the mutant, resulting in utilization of the stored energy and the carbon for maintaining the plant tissues, which is considered as a mechanism of salt tolerance in plants. Up-regulation of catalase, peroxidase, and ascorbate peroxidase genes has resulted in higher accumulation of H2O2 in the wild-type compared to the mutant. Therefore, the wild-type initiated rapid ROS signals which led to less oxidative scavenging in comparison with the mutant. The mutant increased expression in the ion transporters and the channels related to the salinity to maintain the ion homeostasis. In overall, the results demonstrated that the mutant responded better to the salt stress under both osmotic and ionic stress phases and lower damage was observed in the mutant compared to its wild-type under the salt stress.
Waterlogging stress significantly affects the growth, development, and productivity of crop plants. However, manipulation of gene expression to enhance waterlogging tolerance is very limited. In this study, we identified an ethylene-responsive factor from barley, which was strongly induced by waterlogging stress. This transcription factor named
Overexpression of phytoglobins (formerly plant hemoglobins) increases the survival rate of plant tissues under hypoxia stress by the following two known mechanisms: (1) scavenging of nitric oxide (NO) in the phytoglobin/NO cycle and (2) mimicking ethylene priming to hypoxia when NO scavenging activates transcription factors that are regulated by levels of NO and O
Waterlogging is a major abiotic stress causing oxygen depletion and carbon dioxide accumulation in the rhizosphere. Barley is more susceptible to waterlogging stress than other cereals. To gain a better understanding, the genome-wide gene expression responses in roots of waterlogged barley seedlings of Yerong and Deder2 were analyzed by RNA-Sequencing. A total of 6736, 5482, and 4538 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in waterlogged roots of Yerong at 72 h and Deder2 at 72 and 120 h, respectively, compared with the non-waterlogged control. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analyses showed that the most significant changes in GO terms, resulted from these DEGs observed under waterlogging stress, were related to primary and secondary metabolism, regulation, and oxygen carrier activity. In addition, more than 297 transcription factors, including members of MYB, AP2/EREBP, NAC, WRKY, bHLH, bZIP, and G2-like families, were identified as waterlogging responsive. Tentative important contributors to waterlogging tolerance in Deder2 might be the highest up-regulated DEGs: Trichome birefringence, α/β-Hydrolases, Xylanase inhibitor, MATE efflux, serine carboxypeptidase, and SAUR-like auxin-responsive protein. The study provides insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the response to waterlogging in barley, which will be of benefit for future studies of molecular responses to waterlogging and will greatly assist barley genetic research and breeding.
Balanced photosynthesis under drought is essential for better survival and for agricultural benefits in terms of biomass and yield. Given the current attempts to improve the photosynthetic efficiency for greater crop yield, the explanation of the genetic basis of that process, together with the phenotypic analysis, is significant in terms of both basic studies and potential agricultural application. Therefore, the main objective of this study was to uncover the molecular basis of the photosynthesis process under drought stress in barley. To address that goal, we conducted transcriptomic examination together with detailed photosynthesis analysis using the JIP-test. Using this approach, we indicated that photosynthesis is a process that is very early affected in barley seedlings treated with severe drought stress. Rather than focusing on individual genes, our strategy was pointed to the identification of groups of genes with similar expression patterns. As such, we identified and annotated almost 150 barley genes as crucial core-components of photosystems, electron transport components, and Calvin cycle enzymes. Moreover, we designated 17 possible regulatory interactions between photosynthesis-related genes and transcription factors in barley. Summarizing, our results provide a list of candidate genes for future genetic research and improvement of barley drought tolerance by targeting photosynthesis.
Root systems play a pivotal role in coupling with drought stress, which is accompanied with a substantial transcriptome rebuilding in the root tissues. Here, we present the results of global gene expression profiling of roots of two barley genotypes with contrasting abilities to cope with drought that were subjected to a mild level of the stress. We concentrate our analysis on gene expression regulation processes, which allowed the identification of 88 genes from 39 families involved in transcriptional regulation in roots upon mild drought. They include 13 genes encoding transcription factors (TFs) from AP2 family represented by ERFs, DREB, or B3 domain-containing TFs, eight WRKYs, six NACs, five of the HD-domain, MYB or MYB-related, bHLH and bZIP TFs. Also, the representatives of C3H, CPP, GRAS, LOB-domain, TCP, Tiffy, Tubby, and NF-Ys TFs, among others were found to be regulated by the mild drought in barley roots. We found that drought tolerance is accompanied with a lower number of gene expression changes than the amount observed in a susceptible genotype. The better drought acclimation may be related to the activation of transcription factors involved in the maintenance of primary root growth and in the epigenetic control of chromatin and DNA methylation. In addition, our analysis pointed to fives TFs from ERF, LOB, NAC, WRKY and bHLH families that may be important in the mild but not the severe drought response of barley roots.
There has been an increasing interest in Intrinsically Disordered Proteins (IDPs) ever since it was proven that they are ubiquitous and involved in key cellular functions. Interestingly, they have shown a large abundance in complete proteomes. In the current study, we have investigated the first large-scale study of the repertoire of IDPs in Triticum aestivum and Hordeum vulgare proteomes, in order to get insight into the biological roles of IDPs in both species. Results show that proteins in T. aestivum are significantly more disordered than those of H. vulgare. Moreover, the data revealed that DNA/RNA binding domains, co-factors, heme, metal ions binding domains, ATP/GTP binding proteins, ligands, linker domains and repeats, other domains typical to transcription factors such as zinc finger, F-box domain, homeodomain-like, l-domain like and chaperones, are predominantly present and co-occur in disordered proteins in T.aestivum and H.vulgare. The Gene Ontology analysis revealed that IDPs in T. aestivum and H. vulgare are mainly involved in regulation of cellular and biological processes up on response to stress. In future, this study may provide valuable information while considering IDPs in understanding the organism complexity and environmental adaptation.
In barley and other higher plants, phosphate homeostasis is maintained by a regulatory network involving the PHO2 (PHOSPHATE2) encoding ubiquitin-conjugating (UBC) E2 enzyme, the PHR1 (PHOSPHATE STARVATION RESPONSE 1) transcription factor (TF), IPS1 (INDUCED BYPHOSPHATESTARVATION1) RNA, and miR399. During phosphate ion (Pi) deprivation, PHR1 positively regulates MIR399 expression, after transcription and processing mature miR399 guides the Ago protein to the 5'-UTR of PHO2 transcripts. Non-coding IPS1 RNA is highly expressed during Pi starvation, and the sequestration of miR399 molecules protects PHO2 mRNA from complete degradation. Here, we reveal new cis- and trans-regulatory elements that are crucial for efficient PHO2 gene expression in barley. We found that the 5'-UTR of PHO2 contains two PHR1 binding sites (P1BSs) and one Pi-responsive PHO element. Using a yeast one-hybrid (Y1H) assay, we identified two candidate proteins that might mediate this transcriptional regulation: a barley PHR1 ortholog and a TF containing an uncharacterized MYB domain. Additional results classified this new potential TF as belonging to the APL (ALTERED PHLOEM DEVELOPMENT) protein family, and we observed its nuclear localization in barley protoplasts. Pi starvation induced the accumulation of barley APL transcripts in both the shoots and roots. Interestingly, the deletion of the P1BS motif from the first intron of the barley 5'-UTR led to a significant increase in the transcription of a downstream β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in tobacco leaves. Our work extends the current knowledge about putative cis- and trans-regulatory elements that may affect the expression of the barley PHO2 gene.
Fusarium pseudograminearum is an important pathogen of Fusarium crown rot and Fusarium head blight, which is able to infect wheat and barley worldwide, causing great economic losses. Transcription factors (TFs) of the basic leucine zipper (bZIP) protein family control important processes in all eukaryotes. In this study, we identified a gene, designated FpAda1, encoding a bZIP TF in F. pseudograminearum. The homolog of FpAda1 is also known to affect hyphal growth in Neurospora crassa. Deletion of FpAda1 in F. pseudograminearum resulted in defects in hyphal growth, mycelial branching and conidia formation. Pathogenicity assays showed that virulence of the Δfpada1 mutant was dramatically decreased on wheat coleoptiles and barley leaves. However, wheat coleoptile inoculation assay showed that Δfpada1 could penetrate and proliferate in wheat cells. Moreover, the FpAda1 was required for abnormal nuclear morphology in conidia and transcription of FpCdc2 and FpCdc42. Taken together, these results indicate that FpAda1 is an important transcription factor involved in growth and development in F. pseudograminearum.
HbMBF1a was isolated and characterized in H. brevisubulatum, and overexpressed HbMBF1a could enhance the salt tolerance and ABA insensitivity in Arabidopsis thaliana. The transcript levels of stress-responsive genes were significantly increased in the transgenic lines under salt and ABA conditions. Salinity is an abiotic stress that considerably affects plant growth, yield, and distribution. Hordeum brevisubulatum is a halophyte that evolved to become highly tolerant to salinity. Multiprotein bridging factor 1 (MBF1) is a transcriptional coactivator and an important regulator of stress tolerance. In this study, we isolated and characterized HbMBF1a based on the transcriptome data of H. brevisubulatum grown under saline conditions. We overexpressed HbMBF1a in Arabidopsis thaliana and compared the phenotypes of the transgenic lines and the wild-type in response to stresses. The results indicated that HbMBF1a expression was induced by salt and ABA treatments during the middle and late stages. The overexpression of HbMBF1a in A. thaliana resulted in enhanced salt tolerance and ABA insensitivity. More specifically, the enhanced salt tolerance manifested as the increased seed germination and seedling growth and development. Similarly, under ABA treatments, the cotyledon greening rate and seedling root length were higher in the HbMBF1a-overexpressing lines, suggesting the transgenic plants were better adapted to high exogenous ABA levels. Furthermore, the transcript levels of stress-responsive genes were significantly increased in the transgenic lines under salt and ABA conditions. Thus, HbMBF1a is a positive regulator of salt and ABA responses, and the corresponding gene may be useful for producing transgenic plants that are salt tolerant and/or ABA insensitive, with few adverse effects. This study involved a comprehensive analysis of HbMBF1a. The results may provide the basis and insight for the application of MBF1 family genes for developing stress-tolerant crops.
Adhesion of the barley husk to the underlying caryopsis requires the development of a cuticular cementing layer on the caryopsis surface. Differences in adhesion quality among genotypes have previously been correlated with cementing layer composition, which is thought to influence caryopsis cuticle permeability, the hypothesised mechanism of adhesion mediation. It is not yet known whether differences in adhesion quality among genotypes are determined by changes in caryopsis cuticle permeability. We examined changes in candidate cementing layer biosynthetic and regulatory genes to investigate the genetic mechanisms behind husk adhesion quality. We used both commercially relevant UK malting cultivars and older European lines to ensure phenotypic diversity in adhesion quality. An ethylene responsive transcription factor (NUD) is required for the development of the cementing layer. To examine correlations between gene expression, cementing layer permeability and husk adhesion quality we also treated cultivars with ethephon (2-chloroethylphosphonic acid) which breaks down to ethylene, and silver thiosulphate which inhibits ethylene reception, and measured caryopsis cuticle permeability. Differential adhesion qualities among genotypes are not determined by NUD expression during development of the cementing material alone, but could result from differences in biosynthetic gene expression during cementing layer development in response to longer-term NUD expression patterns. Altered caryopsis cuticle permeability does result in altered adhesion quality, but the correlation is not consistently positive or negative. Cuticle permeability is therefore not the mechanism that determines husk adhesion quality, but is likely a consequence of the required cuticular compositional changes that determine adhesion.
The distinct functions of individual cell types require cells to express specific sets of genes. The germinating seed is an excellent model to study genome regulation between cell types since the majority of the transcriptome is differentially expressed in a short period, beginning from a uniform, metabolically inactive state. In this study, we applied laser-capture microdissection RNA-sequencing to small numbers of cells from the plumule, radicle tip and scutellum of germinating barley seeds every 8 h, over a 48 h time course. Tissue-specific gene expression was notably common; 25% (910) of differentially expressed transcripts in plumule, 34% (1876) in radicle tip and 41% (2562) in scutellum were exclusive to that organ. We also determined that tissue-specific storage of transcripts occurs during seed development and maturation. Co-expression of genes had strong spatiotemporal structure, with most co-expression occurring within one organ and at a subset of specific time points during germination. Overlapping and distinct enrichment of functional categories were observed in the tissue-specific profiles. We identified candidate transcription factors amongst these that may be regulators of spatiotemporal gene expression programs. Our findings contribute to the broader goal of generating an integrative model that describes the structure and function of individual cells within seeds during germination.
Osteoporosis is a disease that leads to reduced bone mineral density. The increase in patient and medical costs because of global aging is recognized as a problem. Decreased bone mass is a common symptom of bone diseases such as Paget's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and multiple myeloma. Osteoclasts, which directly affect bone mass, show a marked increase in differentiation and activation in the aforementioned diseases. Moreover, these multinucleated cells made from monocytes/macrophages under the influence of RANKL and M-CSF, are the only cells capable of resorbing bones. In this study, we found that the water extracts of Boseokchal (BSC-W) inhibited osteoclast differentiation in vitro and investigated its inhibitory mechanism. BSC-W was obtained by extracting flour of Boseokchal using hexane and water. To osteoclast differentiation, bone marrow-derived macrophage cells (BMMs) were cultured with the vehicle (0.1% DMSO) or BSC-W in the presence of M-CSF and RANKL for 4 days. Cytotoxicity was measured by CCK-8. Gene expression of cells was confirmed by real-time PCR. Protein expression of cells was observed by western blot assay. Bone resorption activity of osteoclast evaluated by bone pit formation assay using an Osteo Assay Plate. BSC-W inhibited RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis in a dose-dependent manner without exerting a cytotoxic effect on BMMs. BSC-W decreased the transcriptional and translational expression of c-Fos and NFATc1, which are regulators of osteoclastogenesis and reduced the mRNA expression level of TRAP, DC-STAMP, and cathepsin K, which are osteoclast differentiation marker. Furthermore, BSC-W reduced the resorption activity of osteoclasts. Taken together, our results indicate that BSC-W is a useful candidate for health functional foods or therapeutic agents that can help treat bone diseases such as osteoporosis.
Amino acids are vital components in cell metabolism. Leucine is a regulatory factor that generates significant impact on protein synthesis/turnover, modulates diverse cellular signalling pathways and participates in oxidative processes and immune responses. Here, we identified and characterized the functions of a leucine-associated Zn
In field conditions, crops are adversely affected by a wide range of abiotic stresses including drought, cold, salt, and heat, as well as biotic stresses including pests and pathogens. These stresses can have a marked effect on crop yield. The present and future effects of climate change necessitate the improvement of crop stress tolerance. Plants have evolved sophisticated stress response strategies, and genes that encode transcription factors (TFs) that are master regulators of stress-responsive genes are excellent candidates for crop improvement. Related examples in recent studies include TF gene modulation and overexpression approaches in crop species to enhance stress tolerance. However, much remains to be discovered about the diverse plant TFs. Of the >80 TF families, only a few, such as NAC, MYB, WRKY, bZIP, and ERF/DREB, with vital roles in abiotic and biotic stress responses have been intensively studied. Moreover, although significant progress has been made in deciphering the roles of TFs in important cereal crops, fewer TF genes have been elucidated in sorghum. As a model drought-tolerant crop, sorghum research warrants further focus. This review summarizes recent progress on major TF families associated with abiotic and biotic stress tolerance and their potential for crop improvement, particularly in sorghum. Other TF families and non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression are discussed briefly. Despite the emphasis on sorghum, numerous examples from wheat, rice, maize, and barley are included. Collectively, the aim of this review is to illustrate the potential application of TF genes for stress tolerance improvement and the engineering of resistant crops, with an emphasis on sorghum.
Aging-related processes in plant tissues are associated with changes in developmental and physiological processes relevant for stress tolerance and plant performance. While senescence-regulated processes have been extensively characterized in leaves, they remain poorly described in roots. Here, we investigated the physiological processes and molecular determinants underlying the senescence of seminal roots in hydroponically grown barley (
Networks of transcription factors regulate diverse physiological processes in plants to ensure that plants respond to abiotic stresses rapidly and efficiently. In this study, expression of two DREB/CBF genes, TaDREB3 and TaCBF5L, was modulated in transgenic wheat and barley, by using stress-responsive promoters HDZI-3 and HDZI-4. The promoters were derived from the durum wheat genes encoding the γ-clade TFs of the HD-Zip class I subfamily. The activities of tested promoters were induced by drought and cold in leaves of both transgenic species. Differences in sensitivity of promoters to drought strength were dependent on drought tolerance levels of cultivars used for generation of transgenic lines. Expression of the DREB/CBF genes under both promoters improved drought and frost tolerance of transgenic barley, and frost tolerance of transgenic wheat seedlings. Expression levels of the putative TaCBF5L downstream genes in leaves of transgenic wheat seedlings were up-regulated under severe drought, and up- or down-regulated under frost, compared to those of control seedlings. The application of TaCBF5L driven by the HDZI-4 promoter led to the significant increase of the grain yield of transgenic wheat, compared to that of the control wild-type plants, when severe drought was applied during flowering; although no yield improvements were observed when plants grew under well-watered conditions or moderate drought. Our findings suggest that the studied HDZI promoters combined with the DREB/CBF factors could be used in transgenic cereal plants for improvement of abiotic stress tolerance, and the reduction of negative influence of transgenes on plant development and grain yields.
Transcription factors such as MYB have previously been associated with the plant response to drought. In this work, studies on the function of the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) transcription factor HvMYB1 show that gene expression is upregulated in wildtype barley roots and leaves under drought and osmotic stress. Transgenic barley plants that overexpress HvMYB1 were found to be more resistant to drought, showing enhanced relative water content and reduced water loss rate and stomatal conductance as compared to control plants. Levels of the osmolyte proline were enhanced as was expression of dehydrin HvDNH6 in the transgenic lines under drought conditions. The levels of the reactive oxygen species H
Plants encounter pathogenic and non-pathogenic microorganisms on a nearly constant basis. Small RNAs such as siRNAs and miRNAs/milRNAs influence pathogen virulence and host defense responses. We exploited the biotrophic interaction between the powdery mildew fungus, Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh), and its diploid host plant, barley (Hordeum vulgare) to explore fungal and plant sRNAs expressed during Bgh infection of barley leaf epidermal cells. RNA was isolated from four fast-neutron immune-signaling mutants and their progenitor over a time course representing key stages of Bgh infection, including appressorium formation, penetration of epidermal cells, and development of haustorial feeding structures. The Cereal Introduction (CI) 16151 progenitor carries the resistance allele Mla6, while Bgh isolate 5874 harbors the AVR These data suggest that Bgh sRNAs regulate gene expression in metabolism, translation-related, and pathogen effectors. PARE-validated targets of predicted Bgh milRNAs include both EKA (effectors homologous to AVR
The kidney is an essential organ required by the body to perform several important functions. Nephrotoxicity is one of the most prevailing kidney complications that result from exposure to an extrinsic or intrinsic toxicant, which increase the need for the acquisition of proper remedies. Recently, natural remedies are gaining great attention owed to the fact that they have fewer side effects than most conventional drugs. The current study recorded a new therapeutic role of the well-known medicinal plants for kidney stones [Ammi visnaga (AVE), Petroselinum crispum (PCE), Hordeum vulgare (HVE), and Cymbopogon schoenanthus (CSE)]. Hence, the aqueous extracts of these plants examined against CCl These extracts showed the presence of varying amounts of phenolic and triterpenoid compounds, as well as vitamin C. Owing to the antioxidant potential of these constituents, the extracts suppressed the CCl Thus, the studied plant extracts, especially AVE can be considered as promising extracts in the management of nephrotoxicity and other chronic diseases associated with oxidative stress and inflammation.
Several classes of transcription factors are involved in the activation of defensins. A new type of the transcription factor responsible for the regulation of wheat grain specific defensins was characterised in this work. HD-Zip class IV transcription factors constitute a family of multidomain proteins. A full-length cDNA of HD-Zip IV, designated TaGL7 was isolated from the developing grain of bread wheat, using a specific DNA sequence as bait in the Y1H screen. 3D models of TaGL7 HD complexed with DNA cis-elements rationalised differences that underlined accommodations of binding and non-binding DNA, while the START-like domain model predicted binding of lipidic molecules inside a concave hydrophobic cavity. The 3'-untranslated region of TaGL7 was used as a probe to isolate the genomic clone of TdGL7 from a BAC library prepared from durum wheat. The spatial and temporal activity of the TdGL7 promoter was tested in transgenic wheat, barley and rice. TdGL7 was expressed mostly in ovary at fertilisation and its promoter was active in a liquid endosperm during cellularisation and later in the endosperm transfer cells, aleurone, and starchy endosperm. The pattern of TdGL7 expression resembled that of genes that encode grain-specific lipid transfer proteins, particularly defensins. In addition, GL7 expression was upregulated by mechanical wounding, similarly to defensin genes. Co-bombardment of cultured wheat cells with TdGL7 driven by constitutive promoter and seven grain or root specific defensin promoters fused to GUS gene, revealed activation of four promoters. The data confirmed the previously proposed role of HD-Zip IV transcription factors in the regulation of genes that encode lipid transfer proteins involved in lipid transport and defence. The TdGL7 promoter could be used to engineer cereal grains with enhanced resistance to insects and fungal infections.
Control of gene expression and induction of cellular protection mechanisms are two important processes that plants employ to protect themselves against abiotic stresses. ABA-, stress, and ripening-induced (ASR) proteins have been identified to participate in such responses. Previous studies have proposed that these proteins can act as transcription factors and as molecular chaperones protecting transgenic plants against stresses; however a gene network regulated by ASRs has not been explored. To expand our knowledge on the function of these proteins in cereals, we present the functional characterization of a barley ASR gene. Expression of HvASR5 was almost ubiquitous in different organs and responded to ABA and to different stress treatments. When expressed ectopically, HvASR5 was able to confer drought and salt stress tolerance to Arabidopsis thaliana and to improve growth performance of rice plants under stress conditions. A transcriptomic analysis with two transgenic rice lines overexpressing HvASR5 helped to identify potential downstream targets and understand ASR-regulated cellular processes. HvASR5 up-regulated the expression of a distinct set of genes associated with stress responses, metabolic processes (particularly carbohydrate metabolism), as well as reproduction and development. These data, together with the confirmed nuclear and cytoplasmic localization of HvASR5, further support the hypothesis that HvASR5 can also carry out roles as molecular protector and transcriptional regulator.
Crop plant resistance against pathogens is governed by dynamic molecular and biochemical responses driven by complex transcriptional networks. However, the underlying mechanisms are largely unclear. Here we report an interesting role of HvWRKY23 transcription factor (TF) in modulating defense response against Fusarium head blight (FHB) in barley. The combined approach of gene silencing, metabolomics, real time expression analysis and ab initio bioinformatics tools led to the identification of the HvWRKY23 role in FHB resistance. The knock-down of HvWRKY23 gene in the FHB resistant barley genotype CI9831, followed by inoculation with Fusarium graminearum, led to the down regulation of key flavonoid and hydroxycinnamic acid amide biosynthetic genes resulting in reduced accumulation of resistant related (RR) secondary metabolites such as pelargonidin 3-rutinoside, peonidin 3-rhamnoside-5-glucoside, kaempferol 3-O-arabinoside and other flavonoid glycosides. Reduced abundances of RR metabolites in TF silenced plants were also associated with an increased proportion of spikelets diseased and amount of fungal biomass in spikelets, depicting the role of HvWRKY23 in disease resistance. The luciferase reporter assay demonstrated binding of HvWRKY23 protein to promoters of key flavonoid and hydroxycinnamic acid amides (HCAA) biosynthetic genes, such as HvPAL2, HvCHS1, HvHCT, HvLAC15 and HvUDPGT. The accumulation of high abundances of HCAAs and flavonoid glycosides reinforce cell walls to contain the pathogen to initial infection area. This gene in commercial cultivars can be edited, if non-functional, to enhance resistance against FHB.
Water deficit and soil salinity substantially influence plant growth and productivity. When occurring individually, plants often exhibit reduced growth resulting in yield losses. The simultaneous occurrence of these stresses enhances their negative effects. Unraveling the molecular mechanisms of combined abiotic stress responses is essential to secure crop productivity under unfavorable environmental conditions. This study examines the effects of water deficit, salinity and a combination of both on growth and transcriptome plasticity of barley seminal roots by RNA-Seq. Exposure to water deficit and combined stress for more than 4 days significantly reduced total seminal root length. Transcriptome sequencing demonstrated that 60 to 80% of stress type-specific gene expression responses observed 6 h after treatment were also present after 24 h of stress application. However, after 24 h of stress application, hundreds of additional genes were stress-regulated compared to the short 6 h treatment. Combined salt and water deficit stress application results in a unique transcriptomic response that cannot be predicted from individual stress responses. Enrichment analyses of gene ontology terms revealed stress type-specific adjustments of gene expression. Further, global reprogramming mediated by transcription factors and consistent over-representation of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors, heat shock factors (HSF) and ethylene response factors (ERF) was observed. This study reveals the complex transcriptomic responses regulating the perception and signaling of multiple abiotic stresses in barley.
Chloroplasts fuel plant development and growth by converting solar energy into chemical energy. They mature from proplastids through the concerted action of genes in both the organellar and the nuclear genome. Defects in such genes impair chloroplast development and may lead to pigment-deficient seedlings or seedlings with variegated leaves. Such mutants are instrumental as tools for dissecting genetic factors underlying the mechanisms involved in chloroplast biogenesis. Characterization of the green-white variegated
Barley is commonly used in many food and health products. We have previously demonstrated the macrophage-stimulating properties of polysaccharides derived from fermented barley. In this study, three polysaccharide fractions (BF-I-III) were purified from fermented barley and their monosaccharide composition was analyzed. Their immune-stimulatory activities and intracellular signaling pathways were also studied in RAW264.7 cells. Among the three fractions, BF-I exhibited enhanced macrophage activation properties, such as inducing the production of IL-6, IL-12, and TNF-α. However, BF-II and BF-III showed moderate effects on RAW 264.7 cells. BF-I treatment led to the phosphorylation of MAPKs, NF-κB, and c-Jun (major component of AP-1 transcription factor) and induced the nuclear translocation of p65 in RAW264.7 cells. In addition, experiments with neutralizing antibodies showed that Dectin-1, toll-like receptor (TLR) 4, scavenge receptor (SR), and CD14 were mainly involved in the stimulation of nitric oxide (NO) production by BF-I which was suppressed by the inhibition of JNK phosphorylation. These findings suggest that BF-I, isolated from fermented barley, has an immune potentiation activity on macrophages, where it activates the JNK signaling pathway via several macrophage receptors including dectin-1, TLR4, SR, and CD14.
In winter barley plants, vernalization and photoperiod cues have to be integrated to promote flowering. Plant development and expression of different flowering promoter (HvVRN1, HvCO2, PPD-H1, HvFT1, HvFT3) and repressor (HvVRN2, HvCO9 and HvOS2) genes were evaluated in two winter barley varieties under: (1) natural increasing photoperiod, without vernalization, and (2) under short day conditions in three insufficient vernalization treatments. These challenging conditions were chosen to capture non-optimal and natural responses, representative of those experienced in the Mediterranean area. In absence of vernalization and under increasing photoperiods, HvVRN2 expression increased with day-length, mainly between 12 and 13 h photoperiods in our latitudes. The flowering promoter gene in short days, HvFT3, was only expressed after receiving induction of cold or plant age, which was associated with low transcript levels of HvVRN2 and HvOS2. Under the sub-optimal conditions here described, great differences in development were found between the two winter barley varieties used in the study. Delayed development in 'Barberousse' was associated with increased expression levels of HvOS2. Novel variation for HvCO9 and HvOS2 is reported and might explain such differences. The balance between the expression of flowering promoters and repressor genes regulates the promotion towards flowering or the maintenance of the vegetative state. HvOS2, an ortholog of FLC, appears as a strong candidate to mediate in the vernalization response of barley. Natural variation found would help to exploit the plasticity in development to obtain better-adapted varieties for current and future climate conditions.
The members of the Triticeae tribe are characterised by the presence of orthologous and homoeologous gene copies regulating flavonoid biosynthesis. Among transcription factors constituting a regulatory MBW complex, the greatest contribution to the regulation of flavonoid biosynthetic pathway is invested by R2R3-Myb-type TFs. Differently expressed R2R3-Myb copies activate the synthesis of various classes of flavonoid compounds in different plant tissues. The aim of this research was the identification, comparison and analysis of full-length sequences of the duplicated R2R3-Myb Mpc1 (Myb protein c1) gene copies in barley and wheat genomes. The Mpc1 genes were identified in homoeologous group 4 and 7 chromosomes: a total of 3 copies in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and 8 copies in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) genomes. All Mpc1 genes have a similar two-exon structure, and almost all of them are transcriptionally active. The calculation of the divergence time revealed that first duplication between 4 and 7 chromosomes of the common ancestor of the Triticeae tribe occurred about 35-46 million years ago (MYA); the last duplication arised about 16-19 MYA before the divergence Triticum and Hordeum genera The connection between gene expression and the appearance of anthocyanin pigmentation was found for three genes from homoeologous group 4 chromosomes: TaMpc1-A2 (5AL) in wheat coleoptile, HvMpc1-H2 (4HL) in barley lemma and aleurone layer, and HvMpc1-H3 (4HL) in barley aleurone layer. TaMpc1-D4 (4DL) from the wheat genome showed a strong level of expression regardless of the colour of coleoptile or pericarp. It is assumed, that this gene regulates the biosynthesis of uncoloured flavonoids in analysed tissues. The regulatory R2R3-Myb genes involved in anthocyanin synthesis were identified and characterised in Triticeae tribe species. Genes designated HvMpc1-H2 and HvMpc1-H3 appeared to be the main factors underlying intraspecific variation of H. vulgare by lemma and aleurone colour. TaMpc1-A2 is the co-regulator of the Mpc1-1 genes in bread wheat genome controlling anthocyanin synthesis in coleoptile.
Anthocyanins are plants secondary metabolites important for plant adaptation to severe environments and potentially beneficial to human health. Purple colour of barley grain is caused by the pigments synthesized in pericarp. One or two genes determine the trait. One of them is Ant2 mapped on chromosome 2HL and is known to encode transcription factor (TF) with a bHLH domain. In plants, bHLH regulates anthocyanin biosynthesis together with TF harboring an R2R3-MYB domain. In wheat, the R2R3-MYBs responsible for purple colour of grain pericarp are encoded by the homoallelic series of the Pp-1 genes that were mapped on the short arms of chromosomes 7. In barley, in orthologous positions to wheat's Pp-1, the Ant1 gene determining red colour of leaf sheath has been mapped. In the current study, we tested whether Ant1 has pleiotropic effect not only on leaf sheath colour but also on pericarp pigmentation. А set of near isogenic lines (NILs) carrying different combinations of alleles at the Ant1 and Ant2 loci was created using markers-assisted backcrossing approach. The dominant alleles of both the Ant1 and Ant2 genes are required for anthocyanin accumulation in pericarp. A qRT-PCR analysis of the Ant genes in lemma and pericarp of the NILs revealed that some reciprocal interaction occurs between the genes. Expression of each of the two genes was up-regulated in purple-grained line with dominant alleles at the both loci. The lines carrying dominant allele either in the Ant1 or in the Ant2 locus were characterized by the decreased level of expression of the dominant gene and scant activity of the recessive one. The Ant1 and Ant2 expression was barely detected in uncolored line with recessive alleles at both loci. The anthocyanin biosynthesis structural genes were differently regulated: Chs, Chi, F3h, Dfr were transcribed in all lines independently on allelic state of the Ant1 and Ant2 genes, whereas F3'h and Ans were activated in presence on dominant alleles of the both regulatory genes. The R2R3-MYB-encoding counterpart (Ant1) of the regulatory Ant2 gene was determined for the first time. The dominant alleles of both of them are required for activation of anthocyanin synthesis in barley lemma and pericarp. The R2R3-MYB + bHLH complex activates the synthesis via affecting expression of the F3'h and Ans structural genes. In addition, positive regulatory loop between Ant1 and Ant2 was detected. Earlier the interaction between the anthocyanin biosynthesis regulatory genes has been revealed in dicot plant species only. Our data demonstrated that the regulatory mechanism is considered to be more common for plant kingdom than it has been reported so far.
Grain development, as a vital process in the crop's life cycle, is crucial for determining crop quality and yield. However, the molecular basis and regulatory network of barley grain development is not well understood at present. Here, we investigated the transcriptional dynamics of barley grain development through RNA sequencing at four developmental phases, including early prestorage phase (3 days post anthesis (DPA)), late prestorage or transition phase (8 DPA), early storage phase (13 DPA), and levels off stages (18 DPA). Transcriptome profiling found that pronounced shifts occurred in the abundance of transcripts involved in both primary and secondary metabolism during grain development. The transcripts' activity was decreased during maturation while the largest divergence was observed between the transitions from prestorage phase to storage phase, which coincided with the physiological changes. Furthermore, the transcription factors, hormone signal transduction-related as well as sugar-metabolism-related genes, were found to play a crucial role in barley grain development. Finally, 4771 RNA editing events were identified in these four development stages, and most of the RNA editing genes were preferentially expressed at the prestore stage rather than in the store stage, which was significantly enriched in "essential" genes and plant hormone signal transduction pathway. These results suggested that RNA editing might act as a 'regulator' to control grain development. This study systematically dissected the gene expression atlas of barley grain development through transcriptome analysis, which not only provided the potential targets for further functional studies, but also provided insights into the dynamics of gene regulation underlying grain development in barley and beyond.
Inflammation in the central nervous system is closely associated with pathological neurodegenerative diseases as well as psychiatric disorders. Prolonged activation of microglia can produce many inflammatory mediators, which may result in pathological neurotoxic side effects. Interleukin (IL)-6 serves as a hallmark of the injured brain. Whole grains are known to contain many bioactive components. However, little information is available about anti-neuroinflammatory effects of grains in the CNS. This study aims to investigate the effect of Hordeum vulgare ethanol extract (HVE) on the suppression of IL-6 expression in BV2 microglia. Inhibitory effects of HVE on IL-6 expression were analyzed by immunoblot anaysis, immunofluoresce microscopic analysis, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and luciferase promoter reporter assay. HVE inhibited TNFα-induced phosphorylation of IKKα/β, IκB, and p65/RelA NF-κB. TNFα-induced IL-6 mRNA expression and promoter activity were reduced by HVE. Point mutation of NF-κB-binding site within the IL-6 gene promoter abolished TNFα-induced reporter activity, whereas exogenous expression of p65 NF-κB enhanced IL-6 promoter activity. NF-κB-binding site within the IL-6 promoter region is a HVE target element involved in the inhibition of TNFα-induced IL-6 gene transcription. HVE inhibits TNFα-induced IL-6 expression via suppression of NF-κB signaling in BV2 microglial cells.
The plant NAC transcription factors depict one of the largest plant transcription factor families. They regulate a wide range of different developmental processes and most probably played an important role in the evolutionary diversification of plants. This makes comparative studies of the NAC transcription factor family between individual species and genera highly relevant and such studies have in recent years been greatly facilitated by the increasing number of fully sequenced complex plant genomes. This study combines the characterization of the NAC transcription factors in the recently sequenced genome of the cereal crop barley with expression analysis and a comprehensive phylogenetic characterization of the NAC transcription factors in other monocotyledonous plant species. Our results provide evidence for the emergence of a NAC transcription factor subclade that is exclusively expressed in the grains of the Poaceae family of grasses. These notably comprise a number of cereal crops other than barley, such as wheat, rice, maize or millet, which are all cultivated for their starchy edible grains. Apparently, the grain specific subclade emerged from a well described subgroup of NAC transcription factors associated with the senescence process. A promoter exchange subsequently resulted in grain specific expression. We propose to designate this transcription factor subclade Grain-NACs and we discuss their involvement in programmed cell death as well as their potential role in the evolution of the Poaceae grain, which doubtlessly is of central importance for human nutrition.
A water-soluble polysaccharide (BP-1) was extracted and purified from highland barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and its average molecular weight was about 6.7 × 104 Da. In this study, the immunomodulatory activity of BP-1 on the immunosuppressive BALB/c mice model and its molecular mechanism were elucidated. It was found that the weight indexes of spleen and thymus were significantly increased by BP-1 (80 mg kg-1 and 160 mg kg-1) treatment in the immunosuppressive mice model. The results showed that BP-1 (80 mg kg-1 and 160 mg kg-1) could significantly increase the number of bone marrow cells (BMC) and peripheral blood white blood cells (WBC) in the immunosuppressive mice model. In addition, the result further confirmed that BP-1 could increase the serum levels of IL-2, TNF-α and IFN-γ, so as to improve the immune function of immunosuppressive mice. The results showed that BP-1 (80 mg kg-1 and 160 mg kg-1) could promote the proliferation of spleen cells and the natural killer (NK) cell activity in vivo. The quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and ELISA results revealed that BP-1 (80 mg kg-1 and 160 mg kg-1) could enhance the production of IL-2, TNF-α, IFN-γ, IgG and IgM in the spleen of immunosuppressive mice. The HE (hematoxylin and eosin) stained histopathological images showed that BP-1 (80 mg kg-1 and 160 mg kg-1) could repair the damage induced by CTX in the spleen cells of immunosuppressive mice. The result of macrophages showed that BP-1 (80 mg kg-1 and 160 mg kg-1) could promote the proliferation and phagocytosis activity of macrophages in immunosuppressive mice. Furthermore, BP-1 could activate macrophages by the TLR-4, TRAF6, TAK1 and nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) p65 pathways in vivo. These results suggested that BP-1 has a remarkable immunomodulatory activity on the immunosuppressive mice model.
Drought is one of the harshest abiotic stresses hindering seed germination, plant growth, and crop productivity. A high rate and uniformity of germination under stressful conditions are vital for crop establishment and growth; thus, for productivity. A better understanding of the genetic architecture of seed germination under drought stress is a prerequisite for further increasing yield potential. Barley is considered one of the most abiotic stresses-tolerant cereals. Elucidating the drought tolerance of barley during seed germination would indeed pave the way towards improving the performance of all cereals. However, we still know relatively little about the genetic control of drought tolerance during the seed germination phase. In our study, 218 worldwide spring barley accessions were subjected to PEG-induced drought during seed germination. Induced drought stress "20% PEG" significantly reduced the seed germination parameters and seedling related traits. A genome-wide association scan (GWAS) was used to identify genomic regions associated with our trait of interest. In total, 338 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were found to be associated with several traits distributed across seven barley chromosomes, of which 26 genomic regions were associated with candidate genes. The current study found some of the quantitative trait loci (QTL) that have previously been reported to be linked to seed germination-related traits under drought conditions, as well as some new associations. Noteworthy, the identified QTL colocalized with a number of genes (within interval ±0.5 Mbp) that are exclusively distributed on chromosomes 1H, 2H, and 5H. The annotation of these genes in barley shows their roles in drought tolerance through encoding different transcription factors. The function of the identified genes during seed germination was also confirmed by the annotation of their counterparts in Arabidopsis. The current analyses show the power of the GWAS both for identifying putative candidate genes and for improving plant adaptive traits in barley.
Environmental stresses can reduce crop yield and quality considerably. Plants protect cell metabolism in response to abiotic stresses at all stages of their life cycle, including seed production. As the production of vigorous seeds is important to both yield and crop growth, we analyzed causes of yield loss and reduced grain quality in staple crops exposed to environmental stresses such as drought and temperature extremes, with a focus on the remobilization of nutrients and water status during seed filling. Because water is one of the factors that limit seed development, seeds must have mechanisms that allow them to withstand water loss during seed maturation. In addition, analysis of the effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on transcription regulation and signaling should help to elucidate the regulation of seed dormancy and germination. In this review, we focus on nutrient remobilization, water mobility, plant hormones (gibberellins, abscisic acid, and ethylene), and ROS in sink and source organs and describe how rice, wheat, barley, soybean, and cowpea plants control seed maturation and germination under environmental stresses.
Water scarcity is a critical threat to global crop production. Here, we used the natural diversity of barley (
Arsenic (As) is a ubiquitous metalloid and toxic to plants. Chemical similarity between arsenate and phosphate (P) indicates possible antagonism between them in uptake and transportation. However, there is little study to reveal the interaction of As and P at transcriptional level. In this study RNA-sequencing was conducted on the two barley genotypes differing in As tolerance. A total of 2942 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were inclusively expressed in both genotypes under As (100 μM) and As (100 μM) + P (50 μM), and these DEGs included hormonal signaling, stress responsive, transport related and transcription factors. P addition in the culture solution inhibited the KEGG pathways related to ABC transporters, ether lipid metabolism, linolenic acid metabolism, endocytosis and RNA transport. ZDB160 had a higher expression of DEGs associated with hormone signaling, secondary metabolites and stress defense under P conditions compared to ZDB475, which might explain its tolerance mechanism to As under P condition. The abscisic acid, jasmonic acid and salicylic acid signaling pathways were also significantly regulated under As + P conditions, which may also account for genotypic differences. Finally we drew up a hypothetical model of high As + P stress tolerance mechanism in ZDB160. It may be concluded that ZDB160 achieves its tolerance to As under P by up-regulating P transporters, resulting in more P uptake and less As translocation. The identified candidate genes related to As + P tolerance may provide insights into understanding As tolerance under limited P conditions.
Root colonization of plant growth-promoting bacteria is a complex multistep process that is influenced by several factors. For example, during adherence to plant roots, bacteria have to endure reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by plants. In this study, we report that the global transcriptional regulator Fis is involved in the regulation of ROS-tolerance of Pseudomonas putida and thereby affects barley root colonization. Fis overexpression reduced both ROS-tolerance and adherence to barley roots and activated the transcription of the nuoA-N operon encoding NADH dehydrogenase I, the first enzyme of a membrane-bound electron-transport chain. The nuoA-N knockout mutation in the fis-overexpression background increased the ROS-tolerance and adherence to barley roots. We show that nuoA has two transcriptional start sites located 104 and 377 nucleotides upstream of the coding sequence, indicating the presence of two promoters. The DNase I footprint analysis revealed four Fis binding sites: Fis-nuo1 to Fis-nuo4, situated between these two promoters. Site-directed mutagenesis in a promoter-lacZ reporter and β-galactosidase assay further confirmed direct binding of Fis to Fis-nuo2 and probably to Fis-nuo4 but not to Fis-nuo1 and Fis-nuo3. Additionally, the results implied that Fis binding to Fis-nuo4 could affect transcription of the nuoA-N operon by modification of upstream DNA topology. Moreover, our transposon mutagenesis results indicated that Fis might be involved in the regulation of several alternative ROS detoxification processes utilizing NADH.
The homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) transcription factor family plays vital roles in plant development and morphogenesis as well as responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. In barley, a recessive mutation in Vrs1 (HvHox1) changes two-rowed barley to six-rowed barley, which improves yield considerably. The Vrs1 gene encodes an HD-Zip subfamily I transcription factor. Phylogenetic analysis has shown that the rice HD-Zip I genes Oshox12 and Oshox14 are the closest homologues of Vrs1. Here, we show that Oshox12 and Oshox14 are ubiquitously expressed with higher levels in developing panicles. Trans-activation assays in yeast and rice protoplasts demonstrated that Oshox12 and Oshox14 can bind to a specific DNA sequence, AH1 (CAAT(A/T)ATTG), and activate reporter gene expression. Overexpression of Oshox12 and Oshox14 in rice resulted in reduced panicle length and a dwarf phenotype. In addition, Oshox14 overexpression lines showed a deficiency in panicle exsertion. Our findings suggest that Oshox12 and Oshox14 may be involved in the regulation of panicle development. This study provides a significant advancement in understanding the functions of HD-Zip transcription factors in rice.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is the fourth major cereal crop and shows high adaptive capabilities to diverse environments. Thus, it might represent a potential reservoir of novel genes to improve abiotic stress tolerance. In this study, a novel AP2/ERF transcription factor gene designated as HvSHN1 was isolated from barley. Protein sequence analysis showed that the HvSHN1 protein contained a nuclear localization signal and the conserved AP2/ERF domain. Phylogenetic analysis showed that HvSHN1 belongs to the group Va protein in the ERF subfamily which contains the Arabidopsis genes (SHN1, 2 and 3) and the wheat gene TdSHN1 with which it has 94.7% protein sequence identity. Expression profile analysis revealed that HvSHN1 is strongly induced by heat, cold, salt and drought. Transient expression using tobacco BY-2 protoplast coupled to confocal microscopy analysis revealed that HvSHN1 is exclusively targeted to the nucleus. Interestingly, when constitutively expressed in transgenic tobacco, HvSHN1 up-regulated stress responsive genes known to harbor GCC or DRE motif in their promoter regions. Therefore, HvSHN1 might represent a potential candidate for improvement of abiotic stress tolerance in economically important crops.
Floret opening in barley is induced by the swelling of the lodicule, a trait under the control of the cleistogamy1 (cly1) gene. The product of cly1 is a member of the APETALA2 (AP2) transcription factor family, which inhibits lodicule development. A sequence polymorphism at the miR172 target site within cly1 has been associated with variation in lodicule development and hence with the cleistogamous phenotype. It was unclear whether miR172 actually functions in cly1 regulation and, if it does, which miR172 gene contributes to cleistogamy. It was also interesting to explore whether miR172-mediated cly1 regulation occurs at transcriptional level or at translational level. Deep sequencing of small RNA identified the miR172 sequences expressed in barley immature spikes. miR172 genes were confirmed by computational and expression analysis. miR172 and cly1 expression profiles were determined by in situ hybridization and quantitative expression analysis. Immunoblot analysis provided the CLY1 protein quantifications. Definitive evidence of the role of miR172 in cleistogamy was provided by a transposon Ds-induced mutant of Hv-miR172a. A small RNA analysis of the immature barley spike revealed three isomers, miR172a, b and c, of which miR172a was the most abundant. In situ hybridization analysis showed that miR172 and cly1 co-localize in the lodicule primordium, suggesting that these two molecules potentially interact with one another. Immunoblot analysis showed that the sequence polymorphism at the miR172 target site within cly1 reduced the abundance of the CLY1 protein, but not that of its transcript. In a Ds-induced mutant of Hv-miR172a, which generates no mature miR172a, the lodicules fail to grow, resulting in a very small lodicule. Direct evidence is presented to show that miR172a acts to reduce the abundance of the CLY1 protein, which enables open flowering in barley.
The SQUAMOSA-promoter binding like (SPL) gene family encodes transcription factors that have been shown in many species to influence plant growth and development, but information about these genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is limited. This study identified 17 barley SPL genes, within eight distinct groups, that are orthologs of SPL genes described in Arabidopsis, wheat, and rice. Sixteen barley SPLs undergo alternative splicing. Seven SPLs contain a putative miR156 target site and the transcript levels of the miR156-targeted HvSPLs (HvSPL3, 13 and 23) were lower in vegetative than in reproductive phase but this was true also for some SPL genes such as HvSPL6 that were not regulated by miR156. Because SPL gene products regulate miR172, which is also involved in floral development, the expression of miR172 was studied. An antagonistic expression pattern of miR156 and miR172b during the vegetative and the reproductive phases signifies their apparent function in barley growth phase transition. Characterization of a barley mir172 mutant having an abnormal, indeterminate spikelet phenotype suggests the possible feedback role of AP2/miR172 module on HvSPL genes. This is the first comprehensive analysis of the miR156/SPL/miR172 axis in barley that provides a basis to elucidate their roles in various biological processes.
Low availability of nitrogen (N) severely affects plant growth at different levels, which can be reverted by the resupply of N. To unravel the critical steps in primary metabolism underlying the growth adjustment in response to changes in N availability, transcriptomic and comprehensive metabolite analyses were performed in barley using primary leaves at early and later stages of N deprivation, and after N resupply to N-deficient plants. N deficiency in leaves caused differential regulation of 1947 genes, mostly belonging to the functional classes photosynthesis, cell wall degradation, lipid degradation, amino acid degradation, transcription factors, phytohormone metabolism and receptor-like kinases. Interestingly, 62% of the genes responding to low N were regulated in the opposite direction after two days of N resupply. Reprogramming of gene transcription was linked to metabolic rearrangements and affected the metabolism of amino acids and sugars. The levels of major amino acids, including Glu, Asp, Ser, Gln, Gly, Thr, Ala, and Val, decreased during primary leaf age and, more pronounced, during low N-induced senescence, which was efficiently reverted after resupply of N. A significant decrease was observed for pyruvate and metabolites involved in the TCA cycle under low N, and this was reverted to initial levels after 5 days of N resupply. Correspondingly, transcript levels of genes coding for pyruvate kinase, pyruvate dehydrogenase, and pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase followed the same trend as related metabolites. Our results show that upon N limitation a specific pathway for remobilization at the link between glycolysis and TCA cycle in barley is established that is at least partly regulated by a strict reprogramming of the gene coding for pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase. Further analysis of this pathway, its regulatory levels and biochemical changing of pyruvate metabolism enzymes in response to N availability is needed to determine the link between N status and primary metabolism.
Many monocot plants have high social and economic value. These include grasses such as rice (Oryza sativa), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and barley (Hordeum vulgare), which produce soft commodities for many food and beverage industries, and ornamental flowers such ase lily (Lilium longiflorum) and orchid (Oncidium Gower Ramsey), which represent an important component of international flower markets. There is constant pressure to improve the development and diversity of these species, with a significant emphasis on flower development, and this is particularly relevant considering the impact of changing environments on reproduction and thus yield. MADS-box proteins are a family of transcription factors that contain a conserved 60 amino acid MADS-box motif. In plants, attention has been devoted to characterization of this family due to their roles in inflorescence and flower development, which holds promise for the modification of floral architecture for plant breeding. This has been explored in diverse angiosperms, but particularly the dicot model Arabidopsis thaliana. The focus of this review is on the less well characterized roles of the MADS-box proteins in monocot flower development and how changes in MADS-box proteins throughout evolution may have contributed to creating a diverse range of flowers. Examining these changes within the monocots can identify the importance of certain genes and pinpoint those which might be useful in future crop improvement and breeding strategies.
Drought is the most serious abiotic stress, and causes crop losses on a worldwide scale. The present study identified a previously unknown microRNA (designated as hvu-miRX) of 21 nucleotides (nt) in length in barley. Its precursor (designated pre-miRX) and primary transcript (designated pri-miRX) were also identified, with lengths of 73 and 559 nt, respectively. The identified upstream sequence of pri-miRX contained both the TATA box and the CAAT box, which are both required for initiation of transcription. Transient promoter activation assays showed that the core promoter region of pri-miRX ranged 500 nt from the transcription start site. In transgenic barley overexpression of the wheat DREB3 transcription factor (TaDREB3) caused hvu-miRX to be highly expressed as compared with the same miRNA in non-transgenic barley. However, the high expression was not directly associated with TaDREB3. Genomic analysis revealed that the hvu-miRX gene was a single copy located on the short arm of chromosome 2 and appeared to be only conserved in Triticeae, but not in other plant species. Notably, transgenic barley that overexpressed hvu-miRX showed drought tolerance. Degradome library analysis and other tests showed that hvu-miRX targeted various genes including transcription factors via the cleavage mode. Our data provides an excellent opportunity to develop drought stress tolerant cereals using hvu-miRX.
The WRKY transcription factors are a class of DNA-binding proteins involved in diverse plant processes play critical roles in response to abiotic and biotic stresses. Genome-wide divergence analysis of WRKY gene family in Hordeum vulgare provided a framework for molecular evolution and functional roles. So far, the crystal structure of WRKY from barley has not been resolved; moreover, knowledge of the three-dimensional structure of WRKY domain is pre-requisites for exploring the protein-DNA recognition mechanisms. Homology modelling based approach was used to generate structures for WRKY DNA binding domain (DBD) and its variants using AtWRKY1 as a template. Finally, the stability and conformational changes of the generated model in unbound and bound form was examined through atomistic molecular dynamics (MD) simulations for 100 ns time period. In this study, we investigated the comparative binding pattern of WRKY domain and its variants with W-box cis-regulatory element using molecular docking and dynamics (MD) simulations assays. The atomic insight into WRKY domain exhibited significant variation in the intermolecular hydrogen bonding pattern, leading to the structural anomalies in the variant type and differences in the DNA-binding specificities. Based on the MD analysis, residual contribution and interaction contour, wild-type WRKY (HvWRKY46) were found to interact with DNA through highly conserved heptapeptide in the pre- and post-MD simulated complexes, whereas heptapeptide interaction with DNA was missing in variants (I and II) in post-MD complexes. Consequently, through principal component analysis, wild-type WRKY was also found to be more stable by obscuring a reduced conformational space than the variant I (HvWRKY34). Lastly, high binding free energy for wild-type and variant II allowed us to conclude that wild-type WRKY-DNA complex was more stable relative to variants I. The results of our study revealed complete dynamic and structural information about WRKY domain-DNA interactions. However, no structure base information reported to date for WRKY variants and their mechanism of interaction with DNA. Our findings highlighted the importance of selecting a sequence to generate newer transgenic plants that would be increasingly tolerance to stress conditions.
Gramine, a natural indole alkaloid found in Hordeum vulgare has been possesses anti-mutagenic properties. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of gramine on inflammation and proliferation in 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene(DMBA)-induced hamster buccal pouch (HBP) carcinogenesis. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase phosphorylation trigged PI3K/Akt/mTOR and JAK signaling that activates NF-κB and STAT3. In contrast, gramine suppressed EGFR tyrosine kinase phosphorylation and simultaneously inhibiting PI3K/Akt/mTOR and JAK phosphorylation, thereby blockage NF-κB and STAT3 nuclear translocation. Attenuation of these oncogenic signals leads to downregulated iNOS, COX-2, TNF-α, IL-6, cyclin D1 and PCNA protein expressions. In addition, gramine enhanced the expression of the tumor suppressors p53, p21
We previously showed that barley sprout extract (BSE) prevents chronic alcohol intake-induced liver injury in mice. BSE notably inhibited glutathione (GSH) depletion and increased inflammatory responses, revealing its mechanism of preventing alcohol-induced liver injury. In the present study we investigated whether the antioxidant effect of BSE involves enhancing nuclear factor-erythroid 2 related factor 2 (Nrf2) activity and GSH synthesis to inhibit alcohol-induced oxidative liver injury. Mice fed alcohol for four weeks exhibited significantly increased oxidative stress, evidenced by increased malondialdehyde (MDA) level and 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) immunostaining in the liver, whereas treatment with BSE (100 mg/kg) prevented these effects. Similarly, exposure to BSE (0.1-1 mg/mL) significantly reduced oxidative cell death induced by
Among natural populations, there are different colours of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). The colour of barley grains is directly related to the accumulation of different pigments in the aleurone layer, pericarp and lemma. Blue grain colour is due to the accumulation of anthocyanins in the aleurone layer, which is dependent on the presence of five Blx genes that are not sequenced yet (Blx1, Blx3 and Blx4 genes clustering on chromosome 4HL and Blx2 and Blx5 on 7HL). Due to the health benefits of anthocyanins, blue-grained barley can be considered as a source of dietary food. The goal of the current study was to identify and characterize components of the anthocyanin synthesis regulatory network for the aleurone layer in barley. The candidate genes for components of the regulatory complex MBW (consisting of transcription factors MYB, bHLH/MYC and WD40) for anthocyanin synthesis in barley aleurone were identified. These genes were designated HvMyc2 (4HL), HvMpc2 (4HL), and HvWD40 (6HL). HvMyc2 was expressed in aleurone cells only. A loss-of-function (frame shift) mutation in HvMyc2 of non-coloured compared to blue-grained barley was revealed. Unlike aleurone-specific HvMyc2, the HvMpc2 gene was expressed in different tissues; however, its activity was not detected in non-coloured aleurone in contrast to a coloured aleurone, and allele-specific mutations in its promoter region were found. The single-copy gene HvWD40, which encodes the required component of the regulatory MBW complex, was expressed constantly in coloured and non-coloured tissues and had no allelic differences. HvMyc2 and HvMpc2 were genetically mapped using allele-specific developed CAPS markers developed. HvMyc2 was mapped in position between SSR loci XGBS0875-4H (3.4 cM distal) and XGBM1048-4H (3.4 cM proximal) matching the region chromosome 4HL where the Blx-cluster was found. In this position, one of the anthocyanin biosynthesis structural genes (HvF3'5'H) was also mapped using an allele-specific CAPS-marker developed in the current study. The genes involved in anthocyanin synthesis in the barley aleurone layer were identified and characterized, including components of the regulatory complex MBW, from which the MYC-encoding gene (HvMyc2) appeared to be the main factor underlying variation of barley by aleurone colour.
The barley inflorescence (spike) comprises a multi-noded central stalk (rachis) with tri-partite clusters of uni-floretted spikelets attached alternately along its length. Relative fertility of lateral spikelets within each cluster leads to spikes with two or six rows of grain, or an intermediate morphology. Understanding the mechanisms controlling this key developmental step could provide novel solutions to enhanced grain yield. Classical genetic studies identified five major SIX-ROWED SPIKE (VRS) genes, with four now known to encode transcription factors. Here we identify and characterise the remaining major VRS gene, VRS3, as encoding a putative Jumonji C-type H3K9me2/me3 demethylase, a regulator of chromatin state. Exploring the expression network modulated by VRS3 reveals specific interactions, both with other VRS genes and genes involved in stress, hormone and sugar metabolism. We show that combining a vrs3 mutant allele with natural six-rowed alleles of VRS1 and VRS5 leads to increased lateral grain size and greater grain uniformity.The VRS genes of barley control the fertility of the lateral spikelets on the barley inflorescence. Here, Bull et al. show that VRS3 encodes a putative Jumonji C-type histone demethylase that regulates expression of other VRS genes, and genes involved in stress, hormone and sugar metabolism.
Abiotic stresses impact negatively on plant growth, profoundly affecting yield and quality of crops. Although much is known about plant responses, very little is understood at the molecular level about the initial sensing of environmental stress. In plants, hypoxia (low oxygen, which occurs during flooding) is directly sensed by the Cys-Arg/N-end rule pathway of ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis, through oxygen-dependent degradation of group VII Ethylene Response Factor transcription factors (ERFVIIs) via amino-terminal (Nt-) cysteine [1, 2]. Using Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and barley (Hordeum vulgare), we show that the pathway regulates plant responses to multiple abiotic stresses. In Arabidopsis, genetic analyses revealed that response to these stresses is controlled by N-end rule regulation of ERFVII function. Oxygen sensing via the Cys-Arg/N-end rule in higher eukaryotes is linked through a single mechanism to nitric oxide (NO) sensing [3, 4]. In plants, the major mechanism of NO synthesis is via NITRATE REDUCTASE (NR), an enzyme of nitrogen assimilation [5]. Here, we identify a negative relationship between NR activity and NO levels and stabilization of an artificial Nt-Cys substrate and ERFVII function in response to environmental changes. Furthermore, we show that ERFVIIs enhance abiotic stress responses via physical and genetic interactions with the chromatin-remodeling ATPase BRAHMA. We propose that plants sense multiple abiotic stresses through the Cys-Arg/N-end rule pathway either directly (via oxygen sensing) or indirectly (via NO sensing downstream of NR activity). This single mechanism can therefore integrate environment and response to enhance plant survival.
CBF (C-repeat binding factor) transcription factors show high expression levels in response to cold; moreover, they play a key regulatory role in cold acclimation processes. Recently, however, more and more information has led to the conclusion that, apart from cold, light-including its spectra-also has a crucial role in regulating
DELLA proteins associate with transcription factors to control plant growth in response to gibberellin
Zinc (Zn) deficiency negatively impacts the development and health of plants and affects crop yield. When experiencing low Zn, plants undergo an adaptive response to maintain Zn homeostasis. We provide further evidence for the role of F-group transcription factors, AtbZIP19 and AtbZIP23, in responding to Zn deficiency in Arabidopsis and demonstrate the sensitivity and specificity of this response. Despite their economic importance, the role of F-group bZIPs in cereal crops is largely unknown. Here, we provide new insights by functionally characterizing these in barley (Hordeum vulgare), demonstrating an expanded number of F-group bZIPs (seven) compared to Arabidopsis. The F-group barley bZIPs, HvbZIP56 and HvbZIP62, partially rescue the Zn-dependent growth phenotype and ZIP-transporter gene regulation of an Arabidopsis bzip19-4 bzip23-2 mutant. This supports a conserved mechanism of action in adapting to Zn deficiency. HvbZIP56 localizes to the cytoplasm and nucleus when expressed in Arabidopsis and tobacco. Promoter analysis demonstrates that the barley ZIP transporters that are upregulated under Zn deficiency contain cis Zn-deficiency response elements (ZDREs). ZDREs are also found in particular barley bZIP promoters. This study represents a significant step forward in understanding the mechanisms controlling Zn responses in cereal crops, and will aid in developing strategies for crop improvement.
Many important genes in agriculture correspond to transcription factors (TFs) that regulate a wide range of pathways from flowering to responses to disease and abiotic stresses. In this study, we identified 5776 TFs in hexaploid wheat (
Policosanols have hypocholesterolemic activity; however, the molecular mechanism of the policosanol effects is currently poorly characterized. We hypothesized that hexacosanol, a policosanol compound derived from barley sprout, may decrease cellular and plasma cholesterol levels; we thus investigated the hypocholesterolemic activity and mechanism of hexacosanol on both hepatocytes and high-fat-induced obese C57BL/6J mice. The reduction of total cholesterol, free cholesterol, and cholesteryl ester concentrations was confirmed in hexacosanol-stimulated hepatocytes (-38%, -33%, and -53%, respectively). Plasma, hepatic cholesterol concentrations, and hepatic steatosis were significantly reduced in high-fat-fed mice orally administered with hexacosanol (0.7 mg/kg body weight a day) for 8 weeks compared with those of vehicle-fed control mice (-15% and -40%, respectively). Hexacosanol in fact bound to the allosteric regulation site of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)-β subunit and thus activated AMPK that inhibited the activity of 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase by inhibitory phosphorylation. In addition, activation of AMPK by hexacosanol induced hepatic autophagy activity, which could further reduce hepatic lipid accumulation. Alternatively, hexacosanol suppressed the nuclear translocation and activation of sterol regulatory element-binding protein-2 (SREBP-2), a key transcription factor in cholesterol biosynthesis. These results collectively suggest that hexacosanol is a major hypocholesterolemic compound in barley sprouts with regulation of AMPK activation and SREBP-2 suppression. These suppress 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase at both mRNA expression and protein activity levels. In conclusion, hexacosanol activates AMPK and hepatic autophagy and inhibits SREBP2, resulting in hypocholesterolemic activities and improvement of hepatic steatosis.
Isolated barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) aleurone layers have been widely used as a model system for studying gene expression and hormonal regulation in germinating cereal grains. A serious technological limitation of this approach has been the inability to confidently extrapolate conclusions obtained from isolated tissues back to the whole grain, where the co-location of several living and non-living tissues results in complex tissue-tissue interactions and regulatory pathways coordinated across the multiple tissues. Here we have developed methods for isolating fragments of aleurone, starchy endosperm, embryo, scutellum, pericarp-testa, husk and crushed cell layers from germinated grain. An important step in the procedure involves the rapid fixation of the intact grain to freeze the transcriptional activity of individual tissues while dissection is effected for subsequent transcriptomic analyses. The developmental profiles of 19 611 gene transcripts were precisely defined in the purified tissues and in whole grain during the first 24 h of germination by RNA sequencing. Spatial and temporal patterns of transcription were validated against well-defined data on enzyme activities in both whole grain and isolated tissues. Transcript profiles of genes involved in mitochondrial assembly and function were used to validate the very early stages of germination, while the profiles of genes involved in starch and cell wall mobilisation matched existing data on activities of corresponding enzymes. The data will be broadly applicable for the interrogation of co-expression and differential expression patterns and for the identification of transcription factors that are important in the early stages of grain and seed germination.
Exploring genes with impact on yield-related phenotypes is the preceding step to accomplishing crop improvements while facing a growing world population. A genome-wide association scan on leaf blade area (LA) in a worldwide spring barley collection (Hordeum vulgare L.), including 125 two- and 93 six-rowed accessions, identified a gene encoding the homeobox transcription factor, Six-rowed spike 1 (VRS1). VRS1 was previously described as a key domestication gene affecting spike development. Its mutation converts two-rowed (wild-type VRS1, only central fertile spikelets) into six-rowed spikes (mutant vrs1, fully developed fertile central and lateral spikelets). Phenotypic analyses of mutant and wild-type leaves revealed that mutants had an increased leaf width with more longitudinal veins. The observed significant increase of LA and leaf nitrogen (%) during pre-anthesis development in vrs1 mutants also implies a link between wider leaf and grain number, which was validated from the association of vrs1 locus with wider leaf and grain number. Histological and gene expression analyses indicated that VRS1 might influence the size of leaf primordia by affecting cell proliferation of leaf primordial cells. This finding was supported by the transcriptome analysis of mutant and wild-type leaf primordia where in the mutant transcriptional activation of genes related to cell proliferation was detectable. Here we show that VRS1 has an independent role on barley leaf development which might influence the grain number.
The C-Repeat Binding Factors (CBFs) are DNA-binding transcriptional activators that were identified using Arabidopsis thaliana. In barley, Hordeum vulgare, a cluster of CBF genes reside at FROST RESISTANCE-H2, one of two loci having major effects on winter-hardiness. FR-H2 was revealed in a population derived from the winter barley 'Nure' and the spring barley 'Trèmois'. 'Nure' harbors two to three copies of CBF2A and CBF4B as a consequence of tandem iteration of the genomic region encompassing these genes whereas 'Trèmois' harbors single copies, and these copy number differences are associated with their transcript level differences. Here we explore further the relationship between FR-H2 CBF gene copy number and transcript levels using 'Admire', a winter barley accumulating FR-H2 CBF gene transcripts to very high levels, and a group of lines related to 'Admire' through descent. DNA blot hybridization indicated the CBF2A-CBF4B genomic region is present in 7-8 copies in 'Admire' and is highly variable in copy number across the lines related to 'Admire'. At normal growth temperatures transcript levels of CBF12, CBF14, and CBF16 were higher in lines having greater CBF2A-CBF4B genomic region copy numbers than in lines having fewer copy numbers at peak expression level time points controlled by the circadian clock. Chromatin immunoprecipitation indicated CBF2 was at the CBF12 and CBF16 promoters at normal growth temperatures. These data support a scenario in which CBF2A-CBF4B genomic region copy numbers affect expression of other FR-H2 CBFs through a mechansim in which these other FR-H2 CBFs are activated by those in the copy number variable unit.
Current development of advanced biotechnology tools allows us to characterize the role of key genes in plant productivity. The implementation of this knowledge in breeding strategies might accelerate the progress in obtaining high-yielding cultivars. The achievements of the Green Revolution were based on a specific plant ideotype, determined by a single gene involved in gibberellin signaling or metabolism. Compared with the 1950s, an enormous increase in our knowledge about the biological basis of plant productivity has opened new avenues for novel breeding strategies. The large and complex genomes of diploid barley and hexaploid wheat represent a great challenge, but they also offer a large reservoir of genes that can be targeted for breeding. We summarize examples of productivity-related genes/mutants in wheat and barley, identified or characterized by means of modern biology. The genes are classified functionally into several groups, including the following: (1) transcription factors, regulating spike development, which mainly affect grain number; (2) genes involved in metabolism or signaling of growth regulators-cytokinins, gibberellins, and brassinosteroids-which control plant architecture and in consequence stem hardiness and grain yield; (3) genes determining cell division and proliferation mainly impacting grain size; (4) floral regulators influencing inflorescence architecture and in consequence seed number; and (5) genes involved in carbohydrate metabolism having an impact on plant architecture and grain yield. The implementation of selected genes in breeding programs is discussed, considering specific genotypes, agronomic and climate conditions, and taking into account that many of the genes are members of multigene families.
The early flowering of Lalu was determined to be due to a novel spontaneous eam8 mutation, which resulted in intron retention and the formation of a putative truncated protein. Barley is a staple crop grown over an extensive area in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. Understanding the genetic mechanism for its success in a high altitude is important for crop improvement in marginal environments. Early flowering is a critical adaptive trait that strongly influences reproductive fitness in a short growing season. Loss-of-function mutations at the circadian clock gene EARLY MATURITY 8 (EAM8) promote rapid flowering. In this study, we identified a novel, spontaneous recessive eam8 mutant with an early flowering phenotype in a Tibetan barley landrace Lalu, which is natively grown at a high altitude of approximately 4000 m asl. The co-segregation analysis in a F
Appropriate flowering timing is crucial for plant reproductive success. The florigen, FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT), interacts with 14-3-3 proteins and the bZIP transcription factor FD, functioning at core nodes in multiple flowering pathways. There are two FT homologues, FT1 and FT2, in Brachypodium distachyon. Here we show that FT2 undergoes age-dependent alternative splicing (AS), resulting in two splice variants (FT2α and FT2β). The FT2β-encoded protein cannot interact with FD or 14-3-3s but is able to form heterodimers with FT2α and FT1, thereby interfering with the florigen-mediated assembly of the flowering initiation complex. Notably, transgenic plants overproducing FT2β exhibit delayed flowering, while transgenic plants in which FT2β is silenced by an artificial microRNA display accelerated flowering, demonstrating a dominant-negative role of FT2β in flowering induction. Furthermore, we show that the AS splicing of FT2 is conserved in important cereal crops, such as barley and wheat. Collectively, these findings reveal a novel posttranscriptional mode of FT regulation in temperate grasses.
Ambient temperature has a large impact on reproductive development and grain yield in temperate cereals. However, little is known about the genetic control of development under different ambient temperatures. Here, we demonstrate that in barley (Hordeum vulgare), high ambient temperatures accelerate or delay reproductive development depending on the photoperiod response gene PHOTOPERIOD1 (Ppd-H1) and its upstream regulator EARLY FLOWERING3 (HvELF3). A natural mutation in Ppd-H1 prevalent in spring barley delayed floral development and reduced the number of florets and seeds per spike, while the wild-type Ppd-H1 or a mutant Hvelf3 allele accelerated floral development and maintained the seed number under high ambient temperatures. High ambient temperature delayed the expression phase and reduced the amplitude of clock genes and repressed the floral integrator gene FLOWERING LOCUS T1 independently of the genotype. Ppd-H1-dependent variation in flowering time under different ambient temperatures correlated with relative expression levels of the BARLEY MADS-box genes VERNALIZATION1 (HvVRN1), HvBM3, and HvBM8 in the leaf. Finally, we show that Ppd-H1 interacts with regulatory variation at HvVRN1. Ppd-H1 only accelerated floral development in the background of a spring HvVRN1 allele with a deletion in the regulatory intron. The full-length winter Hvvrn1 allele was strongly down-regulated, and flowering was delayed by high temperatures irrespective of Ppd-H1 Our findings demonstrate that the photoperiodic and vernalization pathways interact to control flowering time and floret fertility in response to ambient temperature in barley.
Alternative splicing (AS) is a regulated mechanism that generates multiple transcripts from individual genes. It is widespread in eukaryotic genomes and provides an effective way to control gene expression. At low temperatures, AS regulates Arabidopsis clock genes through dynamic changes in the levels of productive mRNAs. We examined AS in barley clock genes to assess whether temperature-dependent AS responses also occur in a monocotyledonous crop species. We identify changes in AS of various barley core clock genes including the barley orthologues of Arabidopsis AtLHY and AtPRR7 which showed the most pronounced AS changes in response to low temperature. The AS events modulate the levels of functional and translatable mRNAs, and potentially protein levels, upon transition to cold. There is some conservation of AS events and/or splicing behaviour of clock genes between Arabidopsis and barley. In addition, novel temperature-dependent AS of the core clock gene HvPPD-H1 (a major determinant of photoperiod response and AtPRR7 orthologue) is conserved in monocots. HvPPD-H1 showed a rapid, temperature-sensitive isoform switch which resulted in changes in abundance of AS variants encoding different protein isoforms. This novel layer of low temperature control of clock gene expression, observed in two very different species, will help our understanding of plant adaptation to different environments and ultimately offer a new range of targets for plant improvement.
Hulless barley, with its unique nutritional value and potential health benefits, has increasingly attracted attentions in recent years. However, the transcription dynamics during hulless barley grain development is not well understood. In the present study, we investigated the transcriptome changes during barley grain development using Illumina paired-end RNA-sequencing. Two datasets of the developing grain transcriptomes from two barley landraces with the differential seed starch synthesis traits were generated, and comparative transcriptome approach in both genotypes was performed. The results showed that 38 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were found co-modulated in both genotypes during the barley grain development. Of those, the proteins encoded by most of those DGEs were found, such as alpha-amylase-related proteins, lipid-transfer protein, homeodomain leucine zipper (HD-Zip), NUCLEAR FACTOR-Y, subunit B (NF-YBs), as well as MYB transcription factors. More interestingly, two genes Hvulgare_GLEAN_10012370 and Hvulgare_GLEAN_10021199 encoding SuSy, AGPase (Hvulgare_GLEAN_10033640 and Hvulgare_GLEAN_10056301), as well as SBE2b (Hvulgare_GLEAN_10018352) were found to significantly contribute to the regulatory mechanism during grain development in both genotypes. Moreover, six co-expression modules associated with specific biological processes or pathways (M1 to M6) were identified by consensus co-expression network. Significantly enriched pathways of those module genes showed difference in both genotypes. These results will expand our understanding of the complex molecular mechanism of starch synthesis during barley grain development.
In Arabidopsis, NPR1 is a key transcriptional coregulator of systemic acquired resistance. Upon pathogen challenge, NPR1 translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus, in which it interacts with TGA-bZIP transcription factors to activate the expression of several pathogenesis-related (PR) genes. In a screen of a yeast two-hybrid library from wheat leaves infected with Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici, we identified a conserved rust protein that interacts with wheat NPR1 and named it PNPi (for Puccinia NPR1 interactor). PNPi interacts with the NPR1/NIM1-like domain of NPR1 via its C-terminal DPBB_1 domain. Using bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays, we detected the interaction between PNPi and wheat NPR1 in the nucleus of Nicotiana benthamiana protoplasts. A yeast three-hybrid assay showed that PNPi interaction with NPR1 competes with the interaction between wheat NPR1 and TGA2.2. In barley transgenic lines overexpressing PNPi, we observed reduced induction of multiple PR genes in the region adjacent to Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 infection. Based on these results, we hypothesize that PNPi has a role in manipulating wheat defense response via its interactions with NPR1.
We report plausible disease resistance mechanisms induced by barley resistant genotype CI89831 against Fusarium head blight (FHB) based on metabolo-transcriptomics approach. We identified HvCERK1 as a candidate gene for FHB resistance, which is functional in resistant genotype CI9831 but non-functional in susceptible cultivars H106-371 and Zhedar-2. For the first time, we were able to show a hierarchy of regulatory genes that regulated downstream biosynthetic genes that eventually produced resistance related metabolites that reinforce the cell walls to contain the pathogen progress in plant. The HvCERK1 can be used for replacing in susceptible commercial cultivars, if non-functional, based on genome editing. Fusarium head blight (FHB) management is a great challenge in barley and wheat production worldwide. Though barley genome sequence and advanced omics technologies are available, till date none of the resistance mechanisms has been clearly deciphered. Hence, this study was aimed at identifying candidate gene(s) and elucidating resistance mechanisms induced by barley resistant genotype CI9831 based on integrated metabolomics and transcriptomics approach. Following Fusarium graminearum infection, we identified accumulation of specific set of induced secondary metabolites, belonging to phenylpropanoid, hydroxycinnamic acid (HCAA) and jasmonic acid pathways, and their biosynthetic genes. In association with these, receptor kinases such as chitin elicitor receptor kinase (HvCERK1) and protein kinases such as MAP kinase 3 (HvMPK3) and MAPK substrate 1 (HvMKS1), and transcription factors such as HvERF1/5, HvNAC42, HvWRKY23 and HvWRKY70 were also found upregulated with high fold change. Polymorphism studies across three barley genotypes confirmed the presence of mutations in HvCERK1 gene in two susceptible genotypes, isolating this gene as a potential candidate for FHB resistance. Further, the silencing of functional HvCERK1 gene in the resistant genotype CI9831, followed by gene expression and metabolite analysis revealed its role as an elicitor recognition receptor that triggered downstream regulatory genes, which in turn, regulated downstream metabolic pathway genes to biosynthesize resistance related (RR) metabolites to contain the pathogen to spikelet infection. A putative model on metabolic pathway regulation is proposed.
Cereal fermentations have shown significant potential in improvement and design of the nutritional quality and health effects of foods and ingredients. In the present study, the effect of supplementary Lactobacillus plantarum dy-1 fermented barley (LFB) on obesity in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese rats was investigated. LFB treatment showed a lower rate of increase in body weight and percentage of body fat and a reversal of HFD-induced glucose intolerance, with ameliorated hyperinsulinemia, decreased levels of triglycerides and total cholesterol, and inhibited concentration of interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α. Moreover, LFB treatment also showed the strongest inhibition of nuclear factor (NF)-kB activation and exhibited the greatest effects in blocking the degradation of the inhibitor of NF-kB and inhibiting p38 and JNK1 phosphorylation compared with HFD and raw barley treatment. It was clear that Lactobacillus plantarum dy-1 fermentation significantly improves the anti-obesity properties of barley. The results establish the foundation for ameliorating diet-induced obesity of product with LFB as nutritional supplements. © 2016 Society of Chemical Industry.
ASYMMETRIC LEAVES2/LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES (AS2/LOB) genes are a family of plant specific transcription factors, which play an important role in the regulation of plant lateral organ development and metabolism. However, a genome-wide analysis of the AS2/LOB gene family is still not available for barley. In the present study, 24 AS2-like (ASL)/LOB domain (LBD) genes were identified based on the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) genome sequence. A phylogenetic tree of ASL/LBD proteins from barley, Arabidopsis, maize, and rice was constructed. The ASL/LBD genes were classified into two classes, class I and class II, which were divided into five and two subgroups, respectively. Genes homologous in barley and Arabidopsis were analyzed. In addition, the structure and chromosomal locations of the genes were analyzed. Expression profiles indicated that barley HvASL/LBD genes exhibit a variety of expression patterns, suggesting that they are involved in various aspects of physiological and developmental processes. This genome-wide analysis of the barley AS2/LOB gene family contributes to our understanding of the functions of the AS2/LOB gene family.
APETALA2/Ethylene-Responsive Factor (AP2/ERF) gene family is plant specific transcription factor. It plays critical roles in development process, tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses, and responses to plant hormones. However, limited data are available on the contributions of AP2/ERF gene family in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). In the present study, 121 HvAP2/ERF genes in barley were identified by using bioinformatics methods. A total of 118 HvAP2/ERF (97.5%) genes were located on seven chromosomes. According to phylogenetic classification of AP2/ERF family in Arabidopsis, HvAP2/ERF proteins were divided into AP2 (APETALA2), RAV (Related to ABI3/VP), DREB (dehydration responsive element binding), ERF (ethylene responsive factors) and soloist sub families. The analysis of duplication events indicated that tandem repeat and segmental duplication contributed to the expansion of the AP2/ERF family in barley. HvDREB1s/2s genes displayed various expression patterns under abiotic stress and phytohormone. Taken together, the data generated in this study will be useful for genome-wide analysis to determine the precise role of the HvAP2/ERF gene during barley development, abiotic stress and phytohormone responses with the ultimate goal of improving crop production.
Response to a high salinity treatment of 300 mM NaCl was studied in a cultivated barley Hordeum vulgare Syrian cultivar Tadmor and in a halophytic wild barley H. marinum. Differential salinity tolerance of H. marinum and H. vulgare is underlied by qualitative and quantitative differences in proteins involved in a variety of biological processes. The major aim was to identify proteins underlying differential salinity tolerance between the two barley species. Analyses of plant water content, osmotic potential and accumulation of proline and dehydrin proteins under high salinity revealed a relatively higher water saturation deficit in H. marinum than in H. vulgare while H. vulgare had lower osmotic potential corresponding with high levels of proline and dehydrins. Analysis of proteins soluble upon boiling isolated from control and salt-treated crown tissues revealed similarities as well as differences between H. marinum and H. vulgare. The similar salinity responses of both barley species lie in enhanced levels of stress-protective proteins such as defense-related proteins from late-embryogenesis abundant family, several chaperones from heat shock protein family, and others such as GrpE. However, there have also been found significant differences between H. marinum and H. vulgare salinity response indicating an active stress acclimation in H. marinum while stress damage in H. vulgare. An active acclimation to high salinity in H. marinum is underlined by enhanced levels of several stress-responsive transcription factors from basic leucine zipper and nascent polypeptide-associated complex families. In salt-treated H. marinum, enhanced levels of proteins involved in energy metabolism such as glycolysis, ATP metabolism, and photosynthesis-related proteins indicate an active acclimation to enhanced energy requirements during an establishment of novel plant homeostasis. In contrast, changes at proteome level in salt-treated H. vulgare indicate plant tissue damage as revealed by enhanced levels of proteins involved in proteasome-dependent protein degradation and proteins related to apoptosis. The results of proteomic analysis clearly indicate differential responses to high salinity and provide more profound insight into biological mechanisms underlying salinity response between two barley species with contrasting salinity tolerance.
Barley is one of the oldest cultivated crops in the world with a high adaptive capacity. The natural tolerance of barley to stress has led to increasing interest in identification of stress responsive genes through small/large-scale omics studies, comparative genomics, and overexpression of some of these genes by genetic transformation. Two major categories of proteins involved in stress tolerance are transcription factors (TFs) responsible from the re-programming of the metabolism in stress environment, and genes encoding Late Embryogenesis Abundant (LEA) proteins, antioxidant enzymes, osmolytes, and transporters. Constitutive overexpression of several barley TFs, such as C-repeat binding factors (HvCBF4), dehydration-responsive element-binding factors (HvDREB1), and WRKYs (HvWRKY38), in transgenic plants resulted in higher tolerance to drought and salinity, possibly by effectively altering the expression levels of stress tolerance genes due to their higher DNA binding affinity. Na(+)/H(+) antiporters, channel proteins, and lipid transporters can also be the strong candidates for engineering plants for tolerance to salinity and low temperatures.
Many genes involved in responses to photoperiod and vernalization have been characterized or predicted in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), Brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon), wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). However, little is known about the transcription regulation of these genes, especially in the large, complex genomes of wheat and barley. We identified 68, 60, 195 and 61 genes that are known or postulated to control pathways of photoperiod (PH), vernalization (VE) and pathway integration (PI) in Arabidopsis, Brachypodium, wheat and barley for predicting transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) in the promoters of these genes using the FIMO motif search tool of the MEME Suite. The initial predicted TFBSs were filtered to confirm the final numbers of predicted TFBSs to be 1066, 1379, 1528, and 789 in Arabidopsis, Brachypodium, wheat and barley, respectively. These TFBSs were mapped onto the PH, VE and PI pathways to infer about the regulation of gene expression in Arabidopsis and cereal species. The GC contents in promoters, untranslated regions (UTRs), coding sequences and introns were higher in the three cereal species than those in Arabidopsis. The predicted TFBSs were most abundant for two transcription factor (TF) families: MADS-box and CSD (cold shock domain). The analysis of publicly available gene expression data showed that genes with similar numbers of MADS-box and CSD TFBSs exhibited similar expression patterns across several different tissues and developmental stages. The intra-specific Tajima D-statistics of TFBS motif diversity showed different binding specificity among different TF families. The inter-specific Tajima D-statistics suggested faster TFBS divergence in TFBSs than in coding sequences and introns. Mapping TFBSs onto the PH, VE and PI pathways showed the predominance of MADS-box and CSD TFBSs in most genes of the four species, and the difference in the pathway regulations between Arabidopsis and the three cereal species. Our approach to associating the key flowering genes with their potential TFs through prediction of putative TFBSs provides a framework to explore regulatory mechanisms of photoperiod and vernalization responses in flowering plants. The predicted TFBSs in the promoters of the flowering genes provide a basis for molecular characterization of transcription regulation in the large, complex genomes of important crop species, wheat and barley.
The plant-specific NAC transcription factors have attracted particular attention because of their involvement in stress responses, senescence, and nutrient remobilization. The HvNAC005 gene of barley encodes a protein belonging to subgroup NAC-a6 of the NAC family. This study shows that HvNAC005 is associated with developmental senescence. It was significantly up-regulated following ABA treatment, supported by ABA-responsive elements in its promoter, but it was not up-regulated during dark-induced senescence. The C-termini of proteins closely related to HvNAC005 showed overall high divergence but also contained conserved short motifs. A serine- and leucine-containing central motif was essential for transcriptional activity of the HvNAC005 C-terminus in yeast. Over-expression of HvNAC005 in barley resulted in a strong phenotype with delayed development combined with precocious senescence. The over-expressing plants showed up-regulation of genes involved with secondary metabolism, hormone metabolism, stress, signalling, development, and transport. Up-regulation of senescence markers and hormone metabolism and signalling genes supports a role of HvNAC005 in the cross field of different hormone and signalling pathways. Binding of HvNAC005 to promoter sequences of putative target genes containing the T[G/A]CGT core motif was shown by direct protein-DNA interactions of HvNAC005 with promoters for two of the up-regulated genes. In conclusion, HvNAC005 was shown to be a strong positive regulator of senescence and so is an obvious target for the fine-tuning of gene expression in future attempts to improve nutrient remobilization related to the senescence process in barley.
A family of CBF transcription factors plays a major role in reconfiguring the plant transcriptome in response to low-freezing temperature in temperate cereals. In barley, more than 13 HvCBF genes map coincident with the major QTL FR-H2 suggesting them as candidates to explain the function of the locus. Variation in copy number (CNV) of specific HvCBFs was assayed in a panel of 41 barley genotypes using RT-qPCR. Taking advantage of an accurate phenotyping that combined Fv/Fm and field survival, resistance-associated variants within FR-H2 were identified. Genotypes with an increased copy number of HvCBF4 and HvCBF2 (at least ten and eight copies, respectively) showed greater frost resistance. A CAPS marker able to distinguish the CBF2A, CBF2B and CBF2A/B forms was developed and showed that all the higher-ranking genotypes in term of resistance harbour only CBF2A, while other resistant winter genotypes harbour also CBF2B, although at a lower CNV. In addition to the major involvement of the HvCBF4-HvCBF2 genomic segment in the proximal cluster of CBF elements, a negative role of HvCBF3 in the distal cluster was identified. Multiple linear regression models taking into account allelic variation at FR-H1/VRN-H1 explained 0.434 and 0.550 (both at p < 0.001) of the phenotypic variation for Fv/Fm and field survival respectively, while no interaction effect between CNV at the HvCBFs and FR-H1/VRN-H1 was found. Altogether our data suggest a major involvement of the CBF genes located in the proximal cluster, with no apparent involvement of the central cluster contrary to what was reported for wheat.
Fusarium head blight (FHB), caused by Fusarium graminearum, is one of the most devastating diseases of wheat and barley. Resistance to FHB is highly complex and quantitative in nature, and is most often classified as resistance to spikelet infection and resistance to spread of pathogen through the rachis. In the present study, a resistant (CI9831) and a susceptible (H106-371) two-row barley genotypes, with contrasting levels of spikelet resistance to FHB, pathogen or mock-inoculated, were profiled for metabolites based on liquid chromatography and high resolution mass spectrometry. The key resistance-related (RR) metabolites belonging to fatty acids, phenylpropanoids, flavonoids and terpenoid biosynthetic pathways were identified. The free fatty acids (FFAs) linoleic and palmitic acids were among the highest fold change RR induced (RRI) metabolites. These FFAs are deposited as cutin monomers and oligomers to reinforce the cuticle, which acts as a barrier to pathogen entry. Quantitative real-time PCR studies revealed higher expressions of KAS2, CYP86A2, CYP89A2, LACS2 and WAX INDUCER1 (HvWIN1) transcription factor in the pathogen-inoculated resistant genotype than in the susceptible genotype. Knockdown of HvWIN1 by virus-induced genes silencing (VIGS) in resistant genotype upon pathogen inoculation increased the disease severity and fungal biomass, and decreased the abundance of FFAs like linoleic and palmitic acids. Notably, the expression of CYP86A2, CYP89A2 and LAC2 genes was also suppressed, proving the link of HvWIN1 in regulating these genes in cuticle biosynthesis as a defense response.
MicroRNAs (miRNA) are a class of small, endogenous RNAs that play a negative regulatory role in various developmental and metabolic processes of plants. Wild barley (Hordeum vulgare subsp. spontaneum), as the progenitor of cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare subsp. vulgare), has served as a valuable germplasm resource for barley genetic improvement. To survey miRNAs in wild barley, we sequenced the small RNA library prepared from wild barley using the Illumina deep sequencing technology. A total of 70 known miRNAs and 18 putative novel miRNAs were identified. Sequence analysis revealed that all of the miRNAs identified in wild barley contained the highly conserved hairpin sequences found in barley cultivars. MiRNA target predictions showed that 12 out of 52 miRNA families were predicted to target transcription factors, including 8 highly conserved miRNA families in plants and 4 wheat-barley conserved miRNA families. In addition to transcription factors, other predicted target genes were involved in diverse physiological and metabolic processes and stress defense. Our study for the first time reported the large-scale investigation of small RNAs in wild barley, which will provide essential information for understanding the regulatory role of miRNAs in wild barley and also shed light on future practical utilization of miRNAs for barley improvement.
The Cys2 -His2 (C2H2) zinc finger protein family is the second-largest family of transcription factors (TFs) in Magnaporthe oryzae, the causal fungus responsible for the destructive rice blast disease. However, little is known about the roles of most C2H2 TFs in the development and pathogenicity of M. oryzae. The roles of 47 C2H2 genes in development and pathogenicity were investigated by gene deletion in M. oryzae. The TF-dependent genes in mycelia or appressoria were analyzed with RNA sequencing and quantitative PCR (qPCR). Forty-four C2H2 genes are involved in growth (20 genes), conidiation (28 genes), appressorium formation (four genes) and pathogenicity (22 genes) in M. oryzae. Of these, MGG_14931, named as VRF1, is required for pathogenicity, specifically controlling appressorium maturation by affecting the expression of genes related to appressorial structure and function, including melanin biosynthesis, chitin catabolism, lipid metabolism, proteolysis, transmembrane transport, and response to oxidative stress; MGG_01776, named as VRF2, is required for plant penetration and invasive growth; conidiation-related gene CON7 is required for conidial differentiation; and MoCREA, encoding a carbon catabolite repression protein, is a novel repressor of lipid catabolism when glucose obtainable in M. oryzae. This study provides many insights into the regulation of growth, asexual development, appressorium formation, and pathogenicity by C2H2 TFs in M. oryzae.
Homeodomain leucine zipper class I (HD-Zip I) transcription factors (TFs) play key roles in the regulation of plant growth and development under stresses. Functions of the TaHDZipI-2 gene isolated from the endosperm of developing wheat grain were revealed. Molecular characterization of TaHDZipI-2 protein included studies of its dimerisation, protein-DNA interactions and gene activation properties using pull-down assays, in-yeast methods and transient expression assays in wheat cells. The analysis of TaHDZipI-2 gene functions was performed using transgenic barley plants. It included comparison of developmental phenotypes, yield components, grain quality, frost tolerance and the levels of expression of potential target genes in transgenic and control plants. Transgenic TaHDZipI-2 lines showed characteristic phenotypic features that included reduced growth rates, reduced biomass, early flowering, light-coloured leaves and narrowly elongated spikes. Transgenic lines produced 25-40% more seeds per spike than control plants, but with 50-60% smaller grain size. In vivo lipid imaging exposed changes in the distribution of lipids between the embryo and endosperm in transgenic seeds. Transgenic lines were significantly more tolerant to frost than control plants. Our data suggest the role of TaHDZipI-2 in controlling several key processes underlying frost tolerance, transition to flowering and spike development.
The root endophytic fungus Piriformospora indica enhances plant adaptation to environmental stress based on general and non-specific plant species mechanisms. In the present study, we integrated the ionomics, metabolomics, and transcriptomics data to identify the genes and metabolic regulatory networks conferring salt tolerance in P. indica-colonized barley plants. To this end, leaf samples were harvested at control (0 mM NaCl) and severe salt stress (300 mM NaCl) in P. indica-colonized and non-inoculated barley plants 4 weeks after fungal inoculation. The metabolome analysis resulted in an identification of a signature containing 14 metabolites and ions conferring tolerance to salt stress. Gene expression analysis has led to the identification of 254 differentially expressed genes at 0 mM NaCl and 391 genes at 300 mM NaCl in P. indica-colonized compared to non-inoculated samples. The integration of metabolome and transcriptome analysis indicated that the major and minor carbohydrate metabolism, nitrogen metabolism, and ethylene biosynthesis pathway might play a role in systemic salt-tolerance in leaf tissue induced by the root-colonized fungus.
Cytokinin plant hormones have been shown to play an important role in plant response to abiotic stresses. Herein, we expand upon the findings of Pospíšilová et al. [30] regarding preparation of novel transgenic barley lines overexpressing cytokinin dehydrogenase 1 gene from Arabidopsis under the control of mild root-specific promotor of maize β-glycosidase. These lines showed drought-tolerant phenotype mainly due to alteration of root architecture and stronger lignification of root tissue. A detailed transcriptomic analysis of roots of transgenic plants subjected to revitalization after drought stress revealed attenuated response through the HvHK3 cytokinin receptor and up-regulation of two transcription factors implicated in stress responses and abscisic acid sensitivity. Increased expression of several genes involved in the phenylpropanoid pathway as well as of genes encoding arogenate dehydratase/lyase participating in phenylalanine synthesis was found in roots during revitalization. Although more precursors of lignin synthesis were present in roots after drought stress, final lignin accumulation did not change compared to that in plants grown under optimal conditions. Changes in transcriptome indicated a higher auxin turnover in transgenic roots. The same analysis in leaves revealed that genes encoding putative enzymes responsible for production of jasmonates and other volatile compounds were up-regulated. Although transgenic barley leaves showed lower chlorophyll content and down-regulation of genes encoding proteins involved in photosynthesis than did wild-type plants when cultivated under optimal conditions, they did show a tendency to return to initial photochemical activities faster than did wild-type leaves when re-watered after severe drought stress. In contrast to optimal conditions, comparative transcriptomic analysis of revitalized leaves displayed up-regulation of genes encoding enzymes and proteins involved in photosynthesis, and especially those encoded by the chloroplast genome. Taken together, our results indicate that the partial cytokinin insensitivity induced in barley overexpressing cytokinin dehydrogenase contributes to tolerance to drought stress.
In this study, 2 β-glucans with different molecular weight were prepared and purified from hull-less barley bran. The aim was to evaluate their effects on the differentiation of 3T3-L1 pre-adipocytes. Results showed that barley β-glucans inhibited the differentiation of 3T3-L1 pre-adipocytes induced by differentiation medium in a dose-dependent manner, the suppressive effect of high-molecular-weight barley β-glucans (552 kDa, BGH) was stronger (P < 0.05) than that of low-molecular-weight barley β-glucan (32 kDa, BGL), evidenced by the significantly decrease (P < 0.05) of Oil-red O staining and intracellular triglyceride content in the mature adipocytes. Besides, gene expression analysis and Western Blot analysis revealed that both BGH and BGL inhibited the mRNA and protein levels of adipogenesis related transcription factors peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) and CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein α (C/EBPα) which are principal regulators of adipogenesis. Furthermore, the mRNA and protein expression levels of PPARγ target genes in adipose tissue including adipocyte fatty acid binding protein (ap2), lipoprotein lipase (LPL), uncoupling protein-2 (UCP-2), and glucose-transporter 4 (Glut4) in 3T3-L1 cells was also markedly downregulated (P < 0.05). These findings were anticipated to help develop barley β-glucans based functional food for the management of obesity.
The accumulation of storage compounds in the starchy endosperm of developing cereal seeds is highly regulated at the transcriptional level. These compounds, mainly starch and proteins, are hydrolyzed upon germination to allow seedling growth. The transcription factor HvGAMYB is a master activator both in the maturation phase of seed development and upon germination, acting in combination with other transcription factors. However, the precise mechanism controlling the switch from maturation to germination programs remains unclear. We report here the identification and molecular characterization of Hordeum vulgare VIVIPAROUS1 (HvVP1), orthologous to ABA-INSENSITIVE3 from Arabidopsis thaliana HvVP1 transcripts accumulate in the endosperm and the embryo of developing seeds at early stages and in the embryo and aleurone of germinating seeds up to 24 h of imbibition. In transient expression assays, HvVP1 controls the activation of Hor2 and Amy6.4 promoters exerted by HvGAMYB. HvVP1 interacts with HvGAMYB in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and in the plant nuclei, hindering its interaction with other transcription factors involved in seed gene expression programs, like BPBF. Similarly, this interaction leads to a decrease in the DNA binding of HvGAMYB and the Barley Prolamine-Box binding Factor (BPBF) to their target sequences. Our results indicate that the HvVP1 expression pattern controls the full Hor2 expression activated by GAMYB and BPBF in the developing endosperm and the Amy6.4 activation in postgerminative reserve mobilization mediated by GAMYB. All these data demonstrate the participation of HvVP1 in antagonistic gene expression programs and support its central role as a gene expression switch during seed maturation and germination.
Nitrogen (N) is the most common limiting factor for crop productivity worldwide. An effective approach to solve N deficiency is to develop low N (LN) tolerant crop cultivars. Tibetan annual wild barley is well-known for its wide genetic diversity and high tolerance to poor soil fertility. Up to date, no study has been done to illustrate the mechanism of LN tolerance underlying the wild barley at transcriptional level. In this study, we employed Illumina RNA-Sequencing to determine the genotypic difference in transcriptome profile using two Tibetan wild barley genotypes differing in LN tolerance (XZ149, tolerant and XZ56, sensitive). A total of 1469 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the two genotypes at 6 h and 48 h after LN treatment. Genetic difference existed in DEGs between XZ149 and XZ56, including transporters, transcription factors (TFs), kinases, antioxidant stress and hormone signaling related genes. Meanwhile, 695 LN tolerance-associated DEGs were mainly mapped to amino acid metabolism, starch and sucrose metabolism and secondary metabolism, and involved in transporter activity, antioxidant activities, and other gene ontology (GO). XZ149 had a higher capability of N absorption and use efficiency under LN stress than XZ56. The higher expression of nitrate transporters and energy-saving assimilation pattern could be attributed to its more N uptake and higher LN tolerance. In addition, auxin (IAA) and ethylene (ETH) response pathways may be also related to the genotypic difference in LN tolerance. The responses of XZ149 and XZ56 to LN stress differed dramatically at transcriptional level. The identified candidate genes related to LN tolerance may provide new insights into comprehensive understanding of the genotypic difference in N utilization and LN tolerance.
Powdery mildew, caused by the biotrophic fungal pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici, is a major limitation for the production of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum). However, to date, the transcriptional regulation of bread wheat defense against powdery mildew remains largely unknown. Here, we report the function and molecular mechanism of the bread wheat Mediator subunit 25 (TaMED25) in regulating the bread wheat immune response signaling pathway. Three homoalleles of TaMED25 from bread wheat were identified and mapped to chromosomes 5A, 5B, and 5D, respectively. We show that knockdown of TaMED25 by barley stripe mosaic virus-induced gene silencing reduced bread wheat susceptibility to the powdery mildew fungus during the compatible plant-pathogen interaction. Moreover, our results indicate that MED25 may play a conserved role in regulating bread wheat and barley (Hordeum vulgare) susceptibility to powdery mildew. Similarly, bread wheat ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3-LIKE1 (TaEIL1), an ortholog of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3, negatively regulates bread wheat resistance against powdery mildew. Using various approaches, we demonstrate that the conserved activator-interacting domain of TaMED25 interacts physically with the separate amino- and carboxyl-terminal regions of TaEIL1, contributing to the transcriptional activation activity of TaEIL1. Furthermore, we show that TaMED25 and TaEIL1 synergistically activate ETHYLENE RESPONSE FACTOR1 (TaERF1) transcription to modulate bread wheat basal disease resistance to B. graminis f. sp. tritici by repressing the expression of pathogenesis-related genes and deterring the accumulation of reactive oxygen species. Collectively, we identify the TaMED25-TaEIL1-TaERF1 signaling module as a negative regulator of bread wheat resistance to powdery mildew.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seed germination initiates many important biological processes such as DNA, membrane and mitochondrial repairs. However, little is known on cell wall modifications in germinating embryos. We have investigated cell wall polysaccharide composition change, gene transcription and alternative splicing events in four barley varieties at 24h and 48 h germination. Cell wall components in germinating barley embryos changed rapidly, with increases in cellulose and (1,3)(1,4)-β-D-glucan (20-100%) within 24h, but decreases in heteroxylan and arabinan (3-50%). There were also significant changes in the levels of type I arabinogalactans and heteromannans. Alternative splicing played very important roles in cell wall modifications. At least 22 cell wall transcripts were detected to undergo either alternative 3' splicing, alternative 5' splicing or intron retention type of alternative splicing. These genes coded enzymes catalyzing synthesis and degradation of cellulose, heteroxylan, (1,3)(1,4)-β-D-glucan and other cell wall polymers. Furthermore, transcriptional regulation also played very important roles in cell wall modifications. Transcript levels of primary wall cellulase synthase, heteroxylan synthesizing and nucleotide sugar inter-conversion genes were very high in germinating embryos. At least 50 cell wall genes changed transcript levels significantly. Expression patterns of many cell wall genes coincided with changes in polysaccharide composition. Our data showed that cell wall polysaccharide metabolism was very active in germinating barley embryos, which was regulated at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels.
Within the cereal grain, the endosperm and its nutrient reserves are critical for successful germination and in the context of grain utilization. The identification of molecular determinants of early endosperm development, particularly regulators of cell division and cell wall deposition, would help predict end-use properties such as yield, quality, and nutritional value. Custom microarray data have been generated using RNA isolated from developing barley grain endosperm 3 d to 8 d after pollination (DAP). Comparisons of transcript abundance over time revealed 47 gene expression modules that can be clustered into 10 broad groups. Superimposing these modules upon cytological data allowed patterns of transcript abundance to be linked with key stages of early grain development. Here, attention was focused on how the datasets could be mined to explore and define the processes of cell wall biosynthesis, remodeling, and degradation. Using a combination of spatial molecular network and gene ontology enrichment analyses, it is shown that genes involved in cell wall metabolism are found in multiple modules, but cluster into two main groups that exhibit peak expression at 3 DAP to 4 DAP and 5 DAP to 8 DAP. The presence of transcription factor genes in these modules allowed candidate genes for the control of wall metabolism during early barley grain development to be identified. The data are publicly available through a dedicated web interface (https://ics.hutton.ac.uk/barseed/), where they can be used to interrogate co- and differential expression for any other genes, groups of genes, or transcription factors expressed during early endosperm development.
Transcriptional activation of anthocyanin biosynthesis genes in vegetative tissues of monocotyledonous plants is mediated by cooperative activity of one component from each of the following two transcription factor families: MYB encoded by PURPLE PLANT1/COLORED ALEURONE1 (PL1/C1), and basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) encoded by RED/BOOSTER (R1/B1). In the present study, putative PL cDNA was cloned from the wheat (Triticum aestivum) cultivar Iksan370, which preferentially expresses anthocyanins in coleoptiles. Phylogenetic tree analysis of deduced amino acid sequences showed that a putative TaPL1 is highly homologous to barley (Hordeum vulgare) HvPL1, but is distinct from wheat TaC1. Transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana stably expressing putative TaPL1 accumulated anthocyanin pigments in leaves and up-regulated structural genes involved in both early and late anthocyanin biosynthesis steps. TaPL1 transcript levels in Iksan370 were more prominent in vegetative tissues such as young coleoptiles than in reproductive tissues such as spikelets. TaPL1 expression was significantly up-regulated by environmental stresses including cold, salt, and light, which are known to induce anthocyanin accumulation. These combined results suggest that TaPL1 is an active positive regulator of anthocyanin biosynthesis in wheat coleoptiles.
In barley (Hordeum vulgare), PHOTOPERIOD1 (Ppd-H1) acts as a major positive regulator of flowering under long-day conditions, while VERNALIZATION2 (VRN-H2) is a strong repressor of flowering under long days before vernalization. By contrast, CONSTANS (CO) plays a key role in the photoperiodic regulation of flowering in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Here, we study the role of the closest barley CO homologs, HvCO1 and HvCO2, in the long day-dependent control of flowering and their interactions with Ppd-H1 and VRN-H2. HvCO2 overexpression in spring barley, with a natural deletion of the VRN-H2 locus, caused a Ppd-H1-dependent induction of flowering and FLOWERING LOCUS T1 (HvFT1) expression. In winter barley, which carries the VRN-H2 locus, overexpression of HvCO1/CO2 caused an up-regulation of VRN-H2, resulting in a reduced expression of HvFT1 and delayed flowering under long- and short-day conditions. In addition, natural variation at Ppd-H1 altered the expression of VRN-H2 in wild-type plants under long days. VRN-H2, in turn, was involved in the down-regulation of Ppd-H1 and HvCO2, demonstrating strong reciprocal interactions between HvCO2, Ppd-H1, and VRN-H2. Consequently, this study showed that the induction of the floral repressor VRN-H2 and the floral activator HvFT1 was regulated by the same genes, Ppd-H1 and HvCO1/CO2. Our findings provide a novel insight into the photoperiodic regulation of the vernalization pathway in barley.
In this study, using homology mapping of assembled expressed sequence tags against the genomic data, we identified alternative splicing events in barley. Results demonstrated that intron retention is frequently associated with specific abiotic stresses. Network analysis resulted in discovery of some specific sub-networks between miRNAs and transcription factors in genes with high number of alternative splicing, such as cross talk between SPL2, SPL10 and SPL11 regulated by miR156 and miR157 families. To confirm the alternative splicing events, elongation factor protein (MLOC_3412) was selected followed by experimental verification of the predicted splice variants by Semi quantitative Reverse Transcription PCR (qRT-PCR). Our novel integrative approach opens a new avenue for functional annotation of alternative splicing through regulatory-based network discovery.
Abiotic stress factors, especially low temperatures, drought, and salinity, represent the major constraints limiting agricultural production in temperate climate. Under the conditions of global climate change, the risk of damaging effects of abiotic stresses on crop production increases. Plant stress response represents an active process aimed at an establishment of novel homeostasis under altered environmental conditions. Proteins play a crucial role in plant stress response since they are directly involved in shaping the final phenotype. In the review, results of proteomic studies focused on stress response of major crops grown in temperate climate including cereals: common wheat (Triticum aestivum), durum wheat (Triticum durum), barley (Hordeum vulgare), maize (Zea mays); leguminous plants: alfalfa (Medicago sativa), soybean (Glycine max), common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), pea (Pisum sativum); oilseed rape (Brassica napus); potato (Solanum tuberosum); tobacco (Nicotiana tabaccum); tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum); and others, to a wide range of abiotic stresses (cold, drought, salinity, heat, imbalances in mineral nutrition and heavy metals) are summarized. The dynamics of changes in various protein functional groups including signaling and regulatory proteins, transcription factors, proteins involved in protein metabolism, amino acid metabolism, metabolism of several stress-related compounds, proteins with chaperone and protective functions as well as structural proteins (cell wall components, cytoskeleton) are briefly overviewed. Attention is paid to the differences found between differentially tolerant genotypes. In addition, proteomic studies aimed at proteomic investigation of multiple stress factors are discussed. In conclusion, contribution of proteomic studies to understanding the complexity of crop response to abiotic stresses as well as possibilities to identify and utilize protein markers in crop breeding processes are discussed.
The FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) protein is a central component of a mobile flowering signal (florigen) that is transported from leaves to the shoot apical meristem (SAM). Two FT monomers and two DNA-binding bZIP transcription factors interact with a dimeric 14-3-3 protein bridge to form a hexameric protein complex. This complex, designated as the 'florigen activation complex' (FAC), plays a critical role in flowering. The wheat homologue of FT, designated FT1 (= VRN3), activates expression of VRN1 in the leaves and the SAM, promoting flowering under inductive long days. In this study, we show that FT1, other FT-like proteins, and different FD-like proteins, can interact with multiple wheat and barley 14-3-3 proteins. We also identify the critical amino acid residues in FT1 and FD-like proteins required for their interactions, and demonstrate that 14-3-3 proteins are necessary bridges to mediate the FT1-TaFDL2 interaction. Using in vivo bimolecular fluorescent complementation (BiFC) assays, we demonstrate that the interaction between FT1 and 14-3-3 occurs in the cytoplasm, and that this complex is then translocated to the nucleus, where it interacts with TaFDL2 to form a FAC. We also demonstrate that a FAC including FT1, TaFDL2 and Ta14-3-3C can bind to the VRN1 promoter in vitro. Finally, we show that relative transcript levels of FD-like and 14-3-3 genes vary among tissues and developmental stages. Since FD-like proteins determine the DNA specificity of the FACs, variation in FD-like gene expression can result in spatial and temporal modulation of the effects of mobile FT-like signals.
Atmospheric methane is the second most important greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide, and is responsible for about 20% of the global warming effect since pre-industrial times. Rice paddies are the largest anthropogenic methane source and produce 7-17% of atmospheric methane. Warm waterlogged soil and exuded nutrients from rice roots provide ideal conditions for methanogenesis in paddies with annual methane emissions of 25-100-million tonnes. This scenario will be exacerbated by an expansion in rice cultivation needed to meet the escalating demand for food in the coming decades. There is an urgent need to establish sustainable technologies for increasing rice production while reducing methane fluxes from rice paddies. However, ongoing efforts for methane mitigation in rice paddies are mainly based on farming practices and measures that are difficult to implement. Despite proposed strategies to increase rice productivity and reduce methane emissions, no high-starch low-methane-emission rice has been developed. Here we show that the addition of a single transcription factor gene, barley SUSIBA2 (refs 7, 8), conferred a shift of carbon flux to SUSIBA2 rice, favouring the allocation of photosynthates to aboveground biomass over allocation to roots. The altered allocation resulted in an increased biomass and starch content in the seeds and stems, and suppressed methanogenesis, possibly through a reduction in root exudates. Three-year field trials in China demonstrated that the cultivation of SUSIBA2 rice was associated with a significant reduction in methane emissions and a decrease in rhizospheric methanogen levels. SUSIBA2 rice offers a sustainable means of providing increased starch content for food production while reducing greenhouse gas emissions from rice cultivation. Approaches to increase rice productivity and reduce methane emissions as seen in SUSIBA2 rice may be particularly beneficial in a future climate with rising temperatures resulting in increased methane emissions from paddies.
AP2/ERF transcription factors play a critical role in plant development and stress adaptation. This study reports the three-dimensional ab initio-based model of AP2/EREBP protein of barley and its interaction with DNA. Full-length coding sequence of HvAP2/EREBP gene isolated from two Indian barley cultivars, RD 2503 and RD 31, was used to model the protein. Of five protein models obtained, the one with lowest C-score was chosen for further analysis. The N- and C-terminal regions of HvAP2 protein were found to be highly disordered. The dynamic properties of AP2/EREBP and its interaction with DNA were investigated by molecular dynamics simulation. Analysis of trajectories from simulation yielded the equilibrated conformation between 2-10ns for protein and 7-15ns for protein-DNA complex. We established relationship between DNA having GCC box and DNA-binding domain of HvAP2/EREBP was established by modeling 11-base-pair-long nucleotide sequence and HvAP2/EREBP protein using ab initio method. Analysis of protein-DNA interaction showed that a β-sheet motif constituting amino acid residues THR105, ARG100, ARG93, and ARG83 seems to play important role in stabilizing the complex as they form strong hydrogen bond interactions with the DNA motif. Taken together, this study provides first-hand comprehensive information detailing structural conformation and interactions of HvAP2/EREBP proteins in barley. The study intensifies the role of computational approaches for preliminary examination of unknown proteins in the absence of experimental information. It also provides molecular insight into protein-DNA binding for understanding and enhancing abiotic stress resistance for improving the water use efficiency in crop plants.
Inflorescences of the tribe Triticeae, which includes wheat (Triticum sp. L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) are characterized by sessile spikelets directly borne on the main axis, thus forming a branchless spike. 'Compositum-Barley' and tetraploid 'Miracle-Wheat' (T. turgidum convar. compositum (L.f.) Filat.) display noncanonical spike-branching in which spikelets are replaced by lateral branch-like structures resembling small-sized secondary spikes. As a result of this branch formation 'Miracle-Wheat' produces significantly more grains per spike, leading to higher spike yield. In this study, we first isolated the gene underlying spike-branching in 'Compositum-Barley,' i.e., compositum 2 (com2). Moreover, we found that COM2 is orthologous to the branched head(t) (bh(t)) locus regulating spike branching in tetraploid 'Miracle-Wheat.' Both genes possess orthologs with similar functions in maize BRANCHED SILKLESS 1 (BD1) and rice FRIZZY PANICLE/BRANCHED FLORETLESS 1 (FZP/BFL1) encoding AP2/ERF transcription factors. Sequence analysis of the bh(t) locus in a collection of mutant and wild-type tetraploid wheat accessions revealed that a single amino acid substitution in the DNA-binding domain gave rise to the domestication of 'Miracle-Wheat.' mRNA in situ hybridization, microarray experiments, and independent qRT-PCR validation analyses revealed that the branch repression pathway in barley is governed through the spike architecture gene Six-rowed spike 4 regulating COM2 expression, while HvIDS1 (barley ortholog of maize INDETERMINATE SPIKELET 1) is a putative downstream target of COM2. These findings presented here provide new insights into the genetic basis of spike architecture in Triticeae, and have disclosed new targets for genetic manipulations aiming at boosting wheat's yield potential.
Transcription activator-like effector nucleases open up new opportunities for targeted mutagenesis in eukaryotic genomes. Similar to zinc-finger nucleases, sequence-specific DNA-binding domains can be fused with effector domains like the nucleolytically active part of FokI to induce double-strand breaks and thereby modify the host genome on a predefined target site via nonhomologous end joining. More sophisticated applications of programmable endonucleases involve the use of a DNA repair template facilitating homology-directed repair (HDR) so as to create predefined rather than random DNA sequence modifications. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the feasibility of editing the barley genome by precisely modifying a defined target DNA sequence resulting in a predicted alteration of gene function. We used gfp-specific transcription activator-like effector nucleases along with a repair template that, via HDR, facilitates conversion of gfp into yfp, which is associated with a single amino acid exchange in the gene product. As a result of co-bombardment of leaf epidermis, we detected yellow fluorescent protein accumulation in about three of 100 mutated cells. The creation of a functional yfp gene via HDR was unambiguously confirmed by sequencing of the respective genomic site. In addition to the allele conversion accomplished in planta, a readily screenable marker system is introduced that might be useful for optimization approaches in the field of genome editing.
Plants respond to abiotic stresses by changes in gene regulation, including stress-inducible expression of transcriptional activators and repressors. One of the best characterized families of drought-related transcription factors are dehydration-responsive element binding (DREB) proteins, known as C-repeat binding factors (CBF). The wheat DREB/CBF gene TaRAP2.1L was isolated from drought-affected tissues using a dehydration-responsive element (DRE) as bait in a yeast one-hybrid screen. TaRAP2.1L is induced by elevated abscisic acid, drought and cold. A C-terminal ethylene responsive factor-associated amphiphilic repression (EAR) motif, known to be responsible for active repression of target genes, was identified in the TaRAP2.1L protein. It was found that TaRAP2.1L has a unique selectivity of DNA-binding, which differs from that of DREB activators. This binding selectivity remains unchanged in a TaRAP2.1L variant with an inactivated EAR motif (TaRAP2.1Lmut). To study the role of the TaRAP2.1L repressor activity associated with the EAR motif in planta, transgenic wheat overexpressing native or mutated TaRAP2.1L was generated. Overexpression of TaRAP2.1L under constitutive and stress-inducible promoters in transgenic wheat and barley led to dwarfism and decreased frost tolerance. By contrast, constitutive overexpression of the TaRAP2.1Lmut gene had little or no negative influence on wheat development or grain yield. Transgenic lines with the TaRAP2.1Lmut transgene had an enhanced ability to survive frost and drought. The improved stress tolerance is attributed to up-regulation of several stress-related genes known to be downstream genes of DREB/CBF activators.
Circadian clocks regulate many aspects of plant physiology and development that contribute to essential agronomic traits. Circadian clocks contain transcriptional feedback loops that are thought to generate circadian timing. There is considerable similarity in the genes that comprise the transcriptional and translational feedback loops of the circadian clock in the plant Kingdom. Functional characterisation of circadian clock genes has been restricted to a few model species. Here we provide a functional characterisation of the Hordeum vulgare (barley) circadian clock genes Hv circadian clock associated 1 (HvCCA1) and Hv photoperiodh1, which are respectively most similar to Arabidopsis thaliana circadian clock associated 1 (AtCCA1) and pseudo response regulator 7 (AtPRR7). This provides insight into the circadian regulation of one of the major crop species of Northern Europe. Through a combination of physiological assays of circadian rhythms in barley and heterologous expression in wild type and mutant strains of A. thaliana we demonstrate that HvCCA1 has a conserved function to AtCCA1. We find that Hv photoperiod H1 has AtPRR7-like functionality in A. thaliana and that the effects of the Hv photoperiod h1 mutation on photoperiodism and circadian rhythms are genetically separable.
Agricultural nitrous oxide (N2O) pollution resulting from the use of synthetic fertilizers represents a significant contribution to anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions, providing a rationale for reduced use of nitrogen (N) fertilizers. Nitrogen limitation results in extensive systems rebalancing that remodels metabolism and defence processes. To analyse the regulation underpinning these responses, barley (Horedeum vulgare) seedlings were grown for 7 d under N-deficient conditions until net photosynthesis was 50% lower than in N-replete controls. Although shoot growth was decreased there was no evidence for the induction of oxidative stress despite lower total concentrations of N-containing antioxidants. Nitrogen-deficient barley leaves were rich in amino acids, sugars and tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates. In contrast to N-replete leaves one-day-old nymphs of the green peach aphid (Myzus persicae) failed to reach adulthood when transferred to N-deficient barley leaves. Transcripts encoding cell, sugar and nutrient signalling, protein degradation and secondary metabolism were over-represented in N-deficient leaves while those associated with hormone metabolism were similar under both nutrient regimes with the exception of mRNAs encoding proteins involved in auxin metabolism and responses. Significant similarities were observed between the N-limited barley leaf transcriptome and that of aphid-infested Arabidopsis leaves. These findings not only highlight significant similarities between biotic and abiotic stress signalling cascades but also identify potential targets for increasing aphid resistance with implications for the development of sustainable agriculture.
Cold acclimation ability is crucial in the winter survival of cereals. In this process CBF transcription factors play key role, therefore understanding the regulation of these genes might provide useful knowledge for molecular breeding. In the present study the signal transduction pathways leading to the cold induction of different CBF genes were investigated in barley cv. Nure using pharmacological approach. Our results showed that the cold induced expression of CBF9 and CBF14 transcription factors is regulated by phospholipase C, phospholipase D pathways and calcium. On the contrary, these pathways have negative effect on the cold induction of CBF12 that is regulated by a different, as yet unidentified pathway. The diversity in the regulation of these transcription factors corresponds to their sequence based phylogenetic relationships suggesting that their evolutionary separation happened on structural, functional and regulational levels as well. On the CBF effector gene level, the signaling regulation is more complex, resultant effect of multiple pathways.
Leaf senescence is a tightly regulated developmental or stress-induced process. It is accompanied by dramatic changes in cell metabolism and structure, eventually leading to the disintegration of chloroplasts, the breakdown of leaf proteins, internucleosomal fragmentation of nuclear DNA and ultimately cell death. In light of the global and intense reorganization of the senescing leaf transcriptome, measuring time-course gene expression patterns in this model is challenging due to the evident problems associated with selecting stable reference genes. We have used oligonucleotide microarray data to identify 181 genes with stable expression in the course of dark-induced senescence of barley leaf. From those genes, we selected 5 candidates and confirmed their invariant expression by both reverse transcription quantitative PCR and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). We used the selected reference genes to normalize the level of the expression of the following senescence-responsive genes in ddPCR assays: SAG12, ICL, AGXT, CS and RbcS. We were thereby able to achieve a substantial reduction in the data variability. Although the use of reference genes is not considered mandatory in ddPCR assays, our results show that it is advisable in special cases, specifically those that involve the following conditions: i) a low number of repeats, ii) the detection of low-fold changes in gene expression or iii) series data comparisons (such as time-course experiments) in which large sample variation greatly affects the overall gene expression profile and biological interpretation of the data.
Increased tolerance of crops to low oxygen (hypoxia) during flooding is a key target for food security. In Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh., the N-end rule pathway of targeted proteolysis controls plant responses to hypoxia by regulating the stability of group VII ethylene response factor (ERFVII) transcription factors, controlled by the oxidation status of amino terminal (Nt)-cysteine (Cys). Here, we show that the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) ERFVII BERF1 is a substrate of the N-end rule pathway in vitro. Furthermore, we show that Nt-Cys acts as a sensor for hypoxia in vivo, as the stability of the oxygen-sensor reporter protein MCGGAIL-GUS increased in waterlogged transgenic plants. Transgenic RNAi barley plants, with reduced expression of the N-end rule pathway N-recognin E3 ligase PROTEOLYSIS6 (HvPRT6), showed increased expression of hypoxia-associated genes and altered seed germination phenotypes. In addition, in response to waterlogging, transgenic plants showed sustained biomass, enhanced yield, retention of chlorophyll, and enhanced induction of hypoxia-related genes. HvPRT6 RNAi plants also showed reduced chlorophyll degradation in response to continued darkness, often associated with waterlogged conditions. Barley Targeting Induced Local Lesions IN Genomes (TILLING) lines, containing mutant alleles of HvPRT6, also showed increased expression of hypoxia-related genes and phenotypes similar to RNAi lines. We conclude that the N-end rule pathway represents an important target for plant breeding to enhance tolerance to waterlogging in barley and other cereals.
In eukaryotic cells, MADS-box genes are known to play major regulatory roles in various biological processes by combinatorial interactions with other transcription factors. In this study, we functionally characterized the FgMCM1 MADS-box gene in Fusarium graminearum, the causal agent of wheat and barley head blight. Deletion of FgMCM1 resulted in the loss of perithecium production and phialide formation. The Fgmcm1 mutant was significantly reduced in virulence, deoxynivalenol biosynthesis and conidiation. In yeast two-hybrid assays, FgMcm1 interacted with Mat1-1-1 and Fst12, two transcription factors important for sexual reproduction. Whereas Fgmcm1 mutants were unstable and produced stunted subcultures, Fgmcm1 mat1-1-1 but not Fgmcm1 fst12 double mutants were stable. Furthermore, spontaneous suppressor mutations occurred frequently in stunted subcultures to recover growth rate. Ribonucleic acid sequencing analysis indicated that a number of sexual reproduction-related genes were upregulated in stunted subcultures compared with the Fgmcm1 mutant, which was downregulated in the expression of genes involved in pathogenesis, secondary metabolism and conidiation. We also showed that culture instability was not observed in the Fvmcm1 mutants of the heterothallic Fusarium verticillioides. Overall, our data indicate that FgMcm1 plays a critical role in the regulation of cell identity, sexual and asexual reproduction, secondary metabolism and pathogenesis in F. graminearum.
Blast caused by fungal Magnaporthe oryzae is a devastating disease of rice (Oryza sativa) worldwide, and this fungus also infects barley (Hordeum vulgare). At least 11 rice WRKY transcription factors have been reported to regulate rice response to M. oryzae either positively or negatively. However, the relationships of these WRKYs in the rice defense signaling pathway against M. oryzae are unknown. Previous studies have revealed that rice WRKY13 (as a transcriptional repressor) and WRKY45-2 enhance resistance to M. oryzae. Here, we show that rice WRKY42, functioning as a transcriptional repressor, suppresses resistance to M. oryzae. WRKY42-RNA interference (RNAi) and WRKY42-overexpressing (oe) plants showed increased resistance and susceptibility to M. oryzae, accompanied by increased or reduced jasmonic acid (JA) content, respectively, compared with wild-type plants. JA pretreatment enhanced the resistance of WRKY42-oe plants to M. oryzae. WRKY13 directly suppressed WRKY42. WRKY45-2, functioning as a transcriptional activator, directly activated WRKY13. In addition, WRKY13 directly suppressed WRKY45-2 by feedback regulation. The WRKY13-RNAi WRKY45-2-oe and WRKY13-oe WRKY42-oe double transgenic lines showed increased susceptibility to M. oryzae compared with WRKY45-2-oe and WRKY13-oe plants, respectively. These results suggest that the three WRKYs form a sequential transcriptional regulatory cascade. WRKY42 may negatively regulate rice response to M. oryzae by suppressing JA signaling-related genes, and WRKY45-2 transcriptionally activates WRKY13, whose encoding protein in turn transcriptionally suppresses WRKY42 to regulate rice resistance to M. oryzae.
During grain filling in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Barke) reserves are remobilized from vegetative organs. Glumes represent the vegetative tissues closest to grains, senesce late, and are involved in the conversion of assimilates. To analyse glume development and metabolism related to grain filling, parallel transcript and metabolite profiling in glumes and endosperm were performed, showing that glume metabolism and development adjusts to changing grain demands, reflected by specific signatures of metabolite and transcript abundances. Before high endosperm sink strength is established by storage product accumulation, glumes form early, intermediary sink organs, shifting then to remobilizing and exporting source organs. Metabolic and transcriptional transitions occur at two phases: first, at the onset of endosperm filling, as a consequence of endosperm sink activity and assimilate depletion in endosperm and vascular tissues; second, at late grain filling, by developmental ageing and senescence. Regulation of and transition between phases are probably governed by specific NAC and WRKY transcription factors, and both abscisic and jasmonic acid, and are accompanied by changed expression of specific nitrogen transporters. Expression and metabolite profiling suggest glume-specific mechanisms of assimilate conversion and translocation. In summary, grain filling and endosperm sink strength coordinate phase changes in glumes via metabolic, hormonal, and transcriptional control. This study provides a comprehensive view of barley glume development and metabolism, and identifies candidate genes and associated pathways, potentially important for breeding improved grain traits.
MYB transcription factors exist in a large copy number and control various plant phenotypes. We cloned R2R3 MYB-type transcription factors that determine the coloration of basal sheaths in barley and wheat coleoptiles. These genes are highly homologous to maize C1 and rice OsC1, regulators for anthocyanin biosynthesis, but they control seed pigmentation in maize and rice. On the basis of high homology, barley and wheat counterparts are designated HvC1 and TaC1, respectively. HvC1 gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 7H, and TaC1 genes are located on the short arms of chromosomes 7A, 7B, and 7D (TaC1-A1, B1, and D1, respectively). HvC1 is a strong candidate for Ant1 because of (1) complete co-segregation of anthocyanin pigmentation phenotype of the basal sheath with the HvC1 genotype in genetic mapping, and (2) complete deletion of the HvCl gene in two anthocyanin-decreased allelic mutants (ant1.1 and ant1.2) that were induced by irradiation. In contrast, colorless coleoptile wheat lines had lesions in all three genomes consisting of a single-nucleotide substitution or a 1-bp deletion of TaC1-A1, a 1.7-kb insertion of TaC1-B1, and a 2.0-kb insertion of TaC1-D1. At least one normal TaC1 gene appears to be sufficient to produce anthocyanin pigments in wheat coleoptiles. Previous crossing experiments localized Rc (red coleoptile) genes to homoeologous group 7 chromosomes and deduced Rc genotypes of several wheat lines. Their TaC1 gene sequence variation coincided with deduced Rc genotypes; therefore, the present molecular genetic study demonstrates that TaC1 is a strong candidate for Rc in wheat.
Transcription of the vernalization1 gene (VRN1) is induced by prolonged cold (vernalization) to trigger flowering of cereal crops, such as wheat and barley. VRN1 encodes a MADS box transcription factor that promotes flowering by regulating the expression of other genes. Here we use transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) to identify direct targets of VRN1. Over 500 genomic regions were identified as potential VRN1-binding targets by ChIP-seq. VRN1 binds the promoter of flowering locus T-like 1, a promoter of flowering in vernalized plants. VRN1 also targets vernalization2 and ODDSOC2, repressors of flowering that are downregulated in vernalized plants. RNA-seq identified additional VRN1 targets that might play roles in triggering flowering. Other targets of VRN1 include genes that play central roles in low-temperature-induced freezing tolerance, spike architecture and hormone metabolism. This provides evidence for direct regulatory links between the vernalization response pathway and other important traits in cereal crops.
Lignin-carbohydrates, one of the major cell wall components, are believed to be the structures that form chemical linkage between lignin and cell wall polysaccharides. Due to the molecular complexity of lignin-containing substances, their isolation and the assignment of their biological activities have so far remained a difficult task. Here, we extracted two lignin-containing carbohydrates, lignin-rich enzyme lignin (LREL) and pure enzyme lignin (PEL), from barley husk and demonstrated that they act as immune stimulators of dendritic cells (DCs), which are particularly important in linking innate and adaptive immunity. Thioacidolysis, acid hydrolysis, and mild alkali hydrolysis of both LREL and PEL revealed that their immunostimulatory activities depended on the lignin structure and/or content, neutral sugar content (especially the characteristic distribution of galactose and mannose), and presence of an ester bond. Furthermore, we showed that the immunostimulatory potency of the lignin-carbohydrate depended on its molecular weight and degree of polymerization. We also demonstrated that the LREL-induced activation of DCs was mediated via TLR4. Thus, LREL-induced increases in the expression levels of several cell surface marker proteins, production of inflammatory cytokines IL-12p40 and TNF-α, and activation and nuclear translocation of transcription factors, as was observed in the WT DCs, were completely abrogated in DCs derived from the TLR4(-/-) mice but not in DCs derived from the TLR2(-/-), TLR7(-/-), and TLR9(-/-) mice. We further demonstrated that LRELs isolated from other plant tissues also activated DCs. These immunostimulatory activities of lignin-carbohydrates, extracted from edible plant tissues, could have potential relevance in anti-infectious immunity and vaccine adjuvants.
Fusarium avenaceum is a fungus commonly isolated from soil and associated with a wide range of host plants. We present here three genome sequences of F. avenaceum, one isolated from barley in Finland and two from spring and winter wheat in Canada. The sizes of the three genomes range from 41.6-43.1 MB, with 13217-13445 predicted protein-coding genes. Whole-genome analysis showed that the three genomes are highly syntenic, and share>95% gene orthologs. Comparative analysis to other sequenced Fusaria shows that F. avenaceum has a very large potential for producing secondary metabolites, with between 75 and 80 key enzymes belonging to the polyketide, non-ribosomal peptide, terpene, alkaloid and indole-diterpene synthase classes. In addition to known metabolites from F. avenaceum, fuscofusarin and JM-47 were detected for the first time in this species. Many protein families are expanded in F. avenaceum, such as transcription factors, and proteins involved in redox reactions and signal transduction, suggesting evolutionary adaptation to a diverse and cosmopolitan ecology. We found that 20% of all predicted proteins were considered to be secreted, supporting a life in the extracellular space during interaction with plant hosts.
Wild barley is adapted to highly diverse environments throughout its geographical distribution range. Transcriptome sequencing of differentially adapted wild barley ecotypes from contrasting environments contributes to the identification of genes and genetic variation involved in abiotic stress tolerance and adaptation. Two differentially adapted wild barley ecotypes from desert (B1K2) and Mediterranean (B1K30) environments were analyzed for drought stress response under controlled conditions. The desert ecotype lost more water under both irrigation and drought, but exhibited higher relative water content (RWC) and better water use efficiency (WUE) than the coastal ecotype. We sequenced normalized cDNA libraries from drought-stressed leaves of both ecotypes with the 454 platform to identify drought-related transcripts. Over half million reads per ecotype were de novo assembled into 20,439 putative unique transcripts (PUTs) for B1K2, 21,494 for B1K30 and 28,720 for the joint assembly. Over 50% of PUTs of each ecotype were not shared with the other ecotype. Furthermore, 16% (3,245) of B1K2 and 17% (3,674) of B1K30 transcripts did not show orthologous sequence hits in the other wild barley ecotype and cultivated barley, and are candidates of ecotype-specific transcripts. Over 800 unique transcripts from each ecotype homologous to over 30 different stress-related genes were identified. We extracted 1,017 high quality SNPs that differentiated the two ecotypes. The genetic distance between the desert ecotype and cultivated barley was 1.9-fold higher than between the Mediterranean ecotype and cultivated barley. Moreover, the desert ecotype harbored a larger proportion of non-synonymous SNPs than the Mediterranean ecotype suggesting different demographic histories of these ecotypes. The results indicate a strong physiological and genomic differentiation between the desert and Mediterranean wild barley ecotypes and a closer relationship of the Mediterranean to cultivated barley. A significant number of novel transcripts specific to wild barley were identified. The higher SNP density and larger proportion of SNPs with functional effects in the desert ecotype suggest different demographic histories and effects of natural selection in Mediterranean and desert wild barley. The data are a valuable genomic resource for an improved genome annotation, transcriptome studies of drought adaptation and a source of new genetic markers for future barley improvement.
Leaf-to-leaf systemic immune signaling known as systemic acquired resistance is poorly understood in monocotyledonous plants. Here, we characterize systemic immunity in barley (Hordeum vulgare) triggered after primary leaf infection with either Pseudomonas syringae pathovar japonica (Psj) or Xanthomonas translucens pathovar cerealis (Xtc). Both pathogens induced resistance in systemic, uninfected leaves against a subsequent challenge infection with Xtc. In contrast to systemic acquired resistance in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), systemic immunity in barley was not associated with NONEXPRESSOR OF PATHOGENESIS-RELATED GENES1 or the local or systemic accumulation of salicylic acid. Instead, we documented a moderate local but not systemic induction of abscisic acid after infection of leaves with Psj. In contrast to salicylic acid or its functional analog benzothiadiazole, local applications of the jasmonic acid methyl ester or abscisic acid triggered systemic immunity to Xtc. RNA sequencing analysis of local and systemic transcript accumulation revealed unique gene expression changes in response to both Psj and Xtc and a clear separation of local from systemic responses. The systemic response appeared relatively modest, and quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction associated systemic immunity with the local and systemic induction of two WRKY and two ETHYLENE RESPONSIVE FACTOR (ERF)-like transcription factors. Systemic immunity against Xtc was further associated with transcriptional changes after a secondary/systemic Xtc challenge infection; these changes were dependent on the primary treatment. Taken together, bacteria-induced systemic immunity in barley may be mediated in part by WRKY and ERF-like transcription factors, possibly facilitating transcriptional reprogramming to potentiate immunity.
Compared to other ascomycetes, the barley powdery mildew pathogen Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh) has a large genome (ca. 120 Mbp) that harbors a relatively small number of protein-coding genes (ca. 6500). This genomic assemblage is thought to be the result of numerous gene losses, which likely represent an evolutionary adaptation to a parasitic lifestyle in close association with its host plant, barley (Hordeum vulgare). Approximately 8% of the Bgh genes are predicted to encode virulence effectors that are secreted into host tissue and/or cells to promote pathogenesis; the remaining proteome is largely uncharacterized at present. We provide a comparative analysis of the conceptual Bgh proteome, with an emphasis on proteins with known roles in fungal development and pathogenicity, for example heterotrimeric G proteins and G protein coupled receptors; components of calcium and cAMP signaling; small monomeric GTPases; mitogen-activated protein cascades and transcription factors. The predicted Bgh proteome lacks a number of proteins that are otherwise conserved in filamentous fungi, including two proteins that are required for the formation of anastomoses (somatic hyphal connections). By contrast, apart from minor modifications, all major canonical signaling pathways are retained in Bgh. A family of kinases that preferentially occur in pathogenic species of the fungal clade Leotiomyceta is unusually expanded in Bgh and its close relative, Blumeria graminis f.sp. tritici. Our analysis reveals characteristic features of the proteome of a fungal phytopathogen that occupies an extreme habitat: the living plant cell.
Saponarin (SA), a natural flavonoid, is known for its antioxidant and hepatoprotective activities. SA is the predominant compound (1142.7 ± 0.9 mg per 100 g) in barley sprouts, constituting 72% of the total polyphenol content. We investigated, for the first time, the effects of SA from barley sprouts on cellular anti-inflammatory responses. In lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages, SA suppressed the activation of NF-κB, as evidenced by the inhibition of NF-κB DNA binding, nuclear translocation, IκBα phosphorylation, and reporter gene expression, and it downregulated the expression of the pro-inflammatory mediator IL-6. Furthermore, SA reduced the transcription of NF-κB target molecules COX2 and FLIP inhibited the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases ERK and p38. These results suggest that SA isolated from barley sprouts exerts anti-inflammatory effects in LPS-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages via inhibition of NF-κB, ERK and p38 signaling. Thus, SA may be a promising natural anti-inflammatory agent.
The basic leucine zipper (bZIP) family is one of the largest and most diverse transcription factors in eukaryotes participating in many essential plant processes. We identified 141 bZIP proteins encoded by 89 genes from the Hordeum vulgare genome. HvbZIPs were classified into 11 groups based on their DNA-binding motif. Amino acid sequence alignment of the HvbZIPs basic-hinge regions revealed some highly conserved residues within each group. The leucine zipper heptads were analyzed predicting their dimerization properties. 34 conserved motifs were identified outside the bZIP domain. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that major diversification within the bZIP family predated the monocot/dicot divergence, although intra-species duplication and parallel evolution seems to be occurred afterward. Localization of HvbZIPs on the barley chromosomes revealed that different groups have been distributed on seven chromosomes of barley. Six types of intron pattern were detected within the basic-hinge regions. Most of the detected cis-elements in the promoter and UTR sequences were involved in seed development or abiotic stress response. Microarray data analysis revealed differential expression pattern of HvbZIPs in response to ABA treatment, drought, and cold stresses and during barley grain development and germination. This information would be helpful for functional characterization of bZIP transcription factors in barley.
The WRKY transcription factors belong to an evolutionarily conserved superprotein family predominantly present in the plant kingdom. WRKY proteins of barley are not yet fully annotated and most of them are not functionally characterized. We performed a genome-wide identification of WRKY members based on the recently accessible barley draft genome sequence and full-length cDNA datasets. As a result, 34 novel putative proteins have been identified which extend the existing list for barley WRKYs to 94. Phylogenetic analysis of the WRKY domains allowed ranking into three groups (I, II, III), with an expansion in group III in monocots. Two members of subgroup IIa, the wound and pathogen-inducible HvWRKY1 and HvWRKY2, are known as negative defense regulators. Here, we demonstrate that both transcription factors repress the activity of the powdery mildew-induced promoter of HvGER4c, a germin-like defense-related protein. The repression did not require the negative defense regulator MLO nor was it affected by the presence of the R protein MLA12. Moreover, the expression of the Arabidopsis ortholog AtWRKY40 in barley compromised basal resistance to powdery mildew, providing evidence for functional conservation of sequence-related WRKY proteins across monocots and dicots.
The transcription of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) GATA transcription factors GATA, NITRATE-INDUCIBLE, CARBON METABOLISM-INVOLVED (GNC) and GNC-LIKE (GNL)/CYTOKININ-RESPONSIVE GATA FACTOR1 is controlled by several growth regulatory signals including light and the phytohormones auxin, cytokinin, and gibberellin. To date, GNC and GNL have been attributed functions in the control of germination, greening, flowering time, floral development, senescence, and floral organ abscission. GNC and GNL belong to the 11-member family of B-class GATA transcription factors that are characterized to date solely by their high sequence conservation within the GATA DNA-binding domain. The degree of functional conservation among the various B-class GATA family members is not understood. Here, we identify and examine B-class GATAs from Arabidopsis, tomato (Solanum lycopersicon), Brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon), and barley (Hordeum vulgare). We find that B-class GATAs from these four species can be subdivided based on their short or long N termini and the presence of the 13-amino acid C-terminal leucine-leucine-methionine (LLM) domain with the conserved motif LLM. Through overexpression analyses and by complementation of a gnc gnl double mutant, we provide evidence that the length of the N terminus may not allow distinguishing between the different B-class GATAs at the functional level. In turn, we find that the presence and absence of the LLM domain in the overexpressors has differential effects on hypocotyl elongation, leaf shape, and petiole length, as well as on gene expression. Thus, our analyses identify the LLM domain as an evolutionarily conserved domain that determines B-class GATA factor identity and provides a further subclassification criterion for this transcription factor family.
Fusarium head blight caused by Fusarium graminearum is one of the most destructive diseases of wheat and barley. Deoxynivalenol (DON) produced by the pathogen is an important mycotoxins and virulence factor. Because oxidative burst is a common defense response and reactive oxygen species (ROS) induces DON production, in this study, we characterized functional relationships of three stress-related transcription factor genes FgAP1, FgATF1 and FgSKN7. Although all of them played a role in tolerance to oxidative stress, deletion of FgAP1 or FgATF1 had no significant effect on DON production. In contrast, Fgskn7 mutants were reduced in DON production and defective in H2 O2 -induced TRI gene expression. The Fgap1 mutant had no detectable phenotype other than increased sensitivity to H2 O2 and Fgap1 Fgatf1 and Fgap1 Fgskn7 mutants lacked additional or more severe phenotypes than the single mutants. The Fgatf1, but not Fgskn7, mutant was significantly reduced in virulence and delayed in ascospore release. The Fgskn7 Fgatf1 double mutant had more severe defects in growth, conidiation and virulence than the Fgatf1 or Fgskn7 mutant. Instead of producing four-celled ascospores, it formed eight small, single-celled ascospores in each ascus. Therefore, FgSKN7 and FgATF1 must have overlapping functions in intracellular ROS signalling for growth, development and pathogenesis in F. graminearum.
NAC proteins are plant transcription factors that are involved in tolerance to abiotic and biotic stresses, as well as in many developmental processes. Stress-responsive NAC1 (SNAC1) transcription factor is involved in drought tolerance in barley and rice, but has not been shown previously to have a role in disease resistance. Transgenic over-expression of HvSNAC1 in barley cv. Golden Promise reduced the severity of Ramularia leaf spot (RLS), caused by the fungus Ramularia collo-cygni, but had no effect on disease symptoms caused by Fusarium culmorum, Oculimacula yallundae (eyespot), Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (powdery mildew) or Magnaporthe oryzae (blast). The HvSNAC1 transcript was weakly induced in the RLS-susceptible cv. Golden Promise during the latter stages of R. collo-cygni symptom development when infected leaves were senescing. Potential mechanisms controlling HvSNAC1-mediated resistance to RLS were investigated. Gene expression analysis revealed no difference in the constitutive levels of antioxidant transcripts in either of the over-expression lines compared with cv. Golden Promise, nor was any difference in stomatal conductance or sensitivity to reactive oxygen species-induced cell death observed. Over-expression of HvSNAC1 delayed dark-induced leaf senescence. It is proposed that mechanisms controlled by HvSNAC1 that are involved in tolerance to abiotic stress and that inhibit senescence also confer resistance to R. collo-cygni and suppress RLS symptoms. This provides further evidence for an association between abiotic stress and senescence in barley and the development of RLS.
Potassium (K) deficiency is one of the major factors affecting crop growth and productivity. Development of low-K tolerant crops is an effective approach to solve the nutritional deficiency in agricultural production. Tibetan annual wild barley is rich in genetic diversity and can grow normally under poor soils, including low-K supply. However, the molecular mechanism about low K tolerance is still poorly understood. In this study, Illumina RNA-Sequencing was performed using two Tibetan wild barley genotypes differing in low K tolerance (XZ153, tolerant and XZ141, sensitive), to determine the genotypic difference in transcriptome profiling. We identified a total of 692 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in two genotypes at 6 h and 48 h after low-K treatment, including transcription factors, transporters and kinases, oxidative stress and hormone signaling related genes. Meanwhile, 294 low-K tolerant associated DEGs were assigned to transporter and antioxidant activities, stimulus response, and other gene ontology (GO), which were mainly involved in starch and sucrose metabolism, lipid metabolism and ethylene biosynthesis. Finally, a hypothetical model of low-K tolerance mechanism in XZ153 was presented. It may be concluded that wild barley accession XZ153 has a higher capability of K absorption and use efficiency than XZ141 under low K stress. A rapid response to low K stress in XZ153 is attributed to its more K uptake and accumulation in plants, resulting in higher low K tolerance. The ethylene response pathway may account for the genotypic difference in low-K tolerance.
The expression of LcWRKY5 was induced significantly by salinity, mannitol and cutting treatments. Arabidopsis- overexpressing LcWRKY5 greatly increased dehydration tolerance by regulating the expression of multiple stress-responsive genes. Based on the data of sheepgrass 454 high-throughout sequencing and expression analysis results, a drought-induced gene LcWRKY5 was isolated and cloned, and the biological role of the gene has not been reported until now. Bioinformatics analysis showed that LcWRKY5 contains one conserved WD domain and belongs to the group II WRKY protein family. LcWRKY5 shows high sequence identity with predicted or putative protein products of Hordeum vulgare, Aegilops tauschii, Triticum aestivum, Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa, but it has low homology with WRKYs from dicotyledonous plants. Several drought-inducibility, fungal elicitor, MeJA-responsiveness, endosperm, light, anoxic specific inducibility, and circadian control elements were found in the promoter region of LcWRKY5. Tissue-specific expression patterns showed that LcWRKY5 is expressed in roots and leaves, without expression in other tissues. The expression of LcWRKY5 was induced significantly under salinity and mannitol stresses but was not notably changed under cold and Abscisic acid stress. The LcWRKY5 protein exhibits transcription activation activity in the yeast one-hybrid system. Overexpressing LcWRKY5 exhibited increased rates of cotyledon greening and plant survival in transgenic Arabidopsis compared with wild-type plants under drought stress, and the expression levels of DREB2A and RD29A in transgenic plants were enhanced under drought stress. These results indicated that LcWRKY5 may play an important role in drought-response networks through regulation of the DREB2A pathway. LcWRKY5 can be a candidate gene for engineering drought tolerance in other crops.
We report a series of microarray-based leaf and crown transcriptome comparisons involving three barley cultivars (cvs. Luxor, Igri and Atlas 68) which express differing degrees of frost tolerance. The transcripts were obtained following the exposure of seedlings to low (above and below zero) temperatures, aiming to identify those genes and signalling/metabolic pathways which are associated with frost tolerance. Both the leaves and the crowns responded to low temperature by the up-regulation of a suite of abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive genes, most of which have already been recognized as components of the plant low temperature response. The inter-cultivar comparison indicated that genes involved in maintaining the leaf's capacity to synthesize protein and to retain chloroplast activity were important for the expression of frost tolerance. In the crown, the repression of genes associated with nucleosome assembly and transposon regulation were the most relevant transcriptional changes associated with frost tolerance, highlighting the role of gene repression in the cold acclimation response.
Changes in physiological parameters (relative water content (RWC), biomass, water use efficiency (WUE), net photosynthetic yield (PN) and quantum yield of PSII (Fv/Fm)), in proline and sugar content, and expression profile of genes reported to be associated with the barley response to water deficit, including LEA genes, NHX1, Hsdr4, BLT101 and genes encoding transcription factors (HvDREB1, HvABF1, HvABI5 and HvZIP1), were analyzed in seedlings of nine barley genotypes subjected to a progressive increase in water deficit. Seedlings of all genotypes wilted when the soil water content (SWC) declined from 65% (control conditions) to 10% (severe drought conditions), but recovered turgor within a few hours of re-watering. However, when severe drought conditions were prolonged for a week, large differences in survival characteristics were observed between genotypes after re-watering. Multivariate analysis of the changes in physiological and molecular characteristics allowed several different homogenous groups within the genotypes to be distinguished, depending on stress intensity. Furthermore, integration between the stress-response traits was found and was shown to vary depending on the genotype and the stress level. Based on analysis of physiological traits and survival characteristics, two barley genotypes with high adaptability to the stress conditions (cv. Saida and breeding line Cam/B1), and two with low adaptability (cv. Express and breeding line Harmal), were identified. In addition, only changes in expression of the genes HvZIP1, encoding a b-ZIP-type transcription factor, and Hsdr4, encoding a protein of unknown function, were shown to be linked with adaptability of barley to water deficit. In summary, physiological and molecular data revealed large, stress-level-dependent differences between the barley cultivars and breeding lines tested in their response to water deficit.
Salinity tolerance is a physiologically multi-faceted trait attributed to multiple mechanisms. Three barley (Hordeum vulgare) varieties contrasting in their salinity tolerance were used to assess the relative contribution of ionic, osmotic and oxidative stress components towards overall salinity stress tolerance in this species, both at the whole-plant and cellular levels. In addition, transcriptional changes in the gene expression profile were studied for key genes mediating plant ionic and oxidative homeostasis (NHX; RBOH; SOD; AHA and GORK), to compare a contribution of transcriptional and post-translational factors towards the specific components of salinity tolerance. Our major findings are two-fold. First, plant tissue tolerance was a dominating component that has determined the overall plant responses to salinity, with root K(+) retention ability and reduced sensitivity to stress-induced hydroxyl radical production being the main contributing tolerance mechanisms. Second, it was not possible to infer which cultivars were salinity tolerant based solely on expression profiling of candidate genes at one specific time point. For the genes studied and the time point selected that transcriptional changes in the expression of these specific genes had a small role for barley's adaptive responses to salinity. For better tissue tolerance, sodium sequestration, K(+) retention and resistance to oxidative stress all appeared to be crucial. Because these traits are highly interrelated, it is suggested that a major progress in crop breeding for salinity tolerance can be achieved only if these complementary traits are targeted at the same time. This study also highlights the essentiality of post translational modifications in plant adaptive responses to salinity.
The expression of genes encoding components of ABA and metabolic signalling pathways in developing barley endosperm and embryo was investigated. The genes included
The transcriptomes of senescing flag leaves collected from barley field plots with standard or high nitrogen supply were compared to identify genes specifically associated with nitrogen remobilization during leaf senescence under agronomically relevant conditions. In flag leaves collected in field plots with high nitrogen supply, the decline in chlorophyll content was delayed. By comparing changes in gene expression for the two nitrogen levels, it was possible to discriminate genes related to nitrogen remobilization during senescence and genes involved in other processes associated with the late development of leaves under field conditions. Predominant genes that were more strongly upregulated during senescence of flag leaves from plants with standard nitrogen supply included genes encoding the transcription factor HvNAC026, serine type protease SCPL51, and the autophagy factors APG7 and ATG18F. Elevated expression of these genes in senescing leaves from plants with standard nitrogen supply indicates important roles of the corresponding proteins in nitrogen remobilization. In comparison, the genes upregulated in both flag leaf samples might have roles in general senescence processes associated with late leaf development. Among these genes were the transcription factor genes HvNAC001, HvNAC005, HvNAC013, HvWRKY12 and MYB, genes encoding the papain-like cysteine peptidases HvPAP14 and HvPAP20, as well as a subtilase gene.
Controlling pollen development is of major commercial importance in generating hybrid crops and selective breeding, but characterized genes for male sterility in crops are rare, with no current examples in barley. However, translation of knowledge from model species is now providing opportunities to understand and manipulate such processes in economically important crops. We have used information from regulatory networks in Arabidopsis to identify and functionally characterize a barley PHD transcription factor MALE STERTILITY1 (MS1), which expresses in the anther tapetum and plays a critical role during pollen development. Comparative analysis of Arabidopsis, rice and Brachypodium genomes was used to identify conserved regions in MS1 for primer design to amplify the barley MS1 gene; RACE-PCR was subsequently used to generate the full-length sequence. This gene shows anther-specific tapetal expression, between late tetrad stage and early microspore release. HvMS1 silencing and overexpression in barley resulted in male sterility. Additionally, HvMS1 cDNA, controlled by the native Arabidopsis MS1 promoter, successfully complemented the homozygous ms1 Arabidopsis mutant. These results confirm the conservation of MS1 function in higher plants and in particular in temperate cereals. This has provided the first example of a characterized male sterility gene in barley, which presents a valuable tool for the future control of male fertility in barley for hybrid development.
The rapid increase in heat shock proteins upon exposure to damaging stresses and during plant development related to desiccation events reveal their dual importance in plant development and stress tolerance. Genome-wide sequence survey identified 20 non-redundant small heat shock proteins (sHsp) and 22 heat shock factor (Hsf) genes in barley. While all three major classes (A, B, C) of Hsfs are localized in nucleus, the 20 sHsp gene family members are localized in different cell organelles like cytoplasm, mitochondria, plastid and peroxisomes. Hsf and sHsp members are differentially regulated during drought and at different seed developmental stages suggesting the importance of chaperone role under drought as well as seed development. In silico cis-regulatory motif analysis of Hsf promoters showed an enrichment with abscisic acid responsive cis-elements (ABRE), implying regulatory role of ABA in mediating transcriptional response of HvsHsf genes. Gene regulatory network analysis identified HvHsfB2c as potential central regulator of the seed-specific expression of several HvsHsps including 17.5CI sHsp. These results indicate that HvHsfB2c is co-expressed in the central hub of small Hsps and therefore it may be regulating the expression of several HvsHsp subclasses HvHsp16.88-CI, HvHsp17.5-CI and HvHsp17.7-CI. The in vivo relevance of binding specificity of HvHsfB2C transcription factor to HSE-element present in the promoter of HvSHP17.5-CI under heat stress exposure is confirmed by gel shift and LUC-reporter assays. Further, we isolated 477 bp cDNA from barley encoding a 17.5 sHsp polypeptide, which was predominantly upregulated under drought stress treatments and also preferentially expressed in developing seeds. Recombinant HvsHsp17.5-CI protein was expressed in E. coli and purified to homogeneity, which displayed in vitro chaperone activity. The predicted structural model of HvsHsp-17.5-CI protein suggests that the α-crystallin domain is evolutionarily highly conserved.
The senescence process of plants is important for the completion of their life cycle, particularly for crop plants, it is essential for efficient nutrient remobilization during seed filling. It is a highly regulated process, and in order to address the regulatory aspect, the role of genes in the NAC transcription factor family during senescence of barley flag leaves was studied. Several members of the NAC transcription factor gene family were up-regulated during senescence in a microarray experiment, together with a large range of senescence-associated genes, reflecting the coordinated activation of degradation processes in senescing barley leaf tissues. This picture was confirmed in a detailed quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR) experiment, which also showed distinct gene expression patterns for different members of the NAC gene family, suggesting a group of ~15 out of the 47 studied NAC genes to be important for signalling processes and for the execution of degradation processes during leaf senescence in barley. Seven models for DNA-binding motifs for NAC transcription factors were designed based on published motifs, and available promoter sequences of barley genes were screened for the motifs. Genes up-regulated during senescence showed a significant over-representation of the motifs, suggesting regulation by the NAC transcription factors. Furthermore, co-regulation studies showed that genes possessing the motifs in the promoter in general were highly co-expressed with members of the NAC gene family. In conclusion, a list of up to 15 NAC genes from barley that are strong candidates for being regulatory factors of importance for senescence and biotic stress-related traits affecting the productivity of cereal crop plants has been generated. Furthermore, a list of 71 senescence-associated genes that are potential target genes for these NAC transcription factors is presented.
KNOTTED1-LIKE HOMEOBOX (KNOX) genes are important regulators of meristem function, and a complex network of transcription factors ensures tight control of their expression. Here, we show that members of the GROWTH-REGULATING FACTOR (GRF) family act as players in this network. A yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) one-hybrid screen with the upstream sequence of the KNOX gene Oskn2 from rice (Oryza sativa) resulted in isolation of OsGRF3 and OsGRF10. Specific binding to a region in the untranslated leader sequence of Oskn2 was confirmed by yeast and in vitro binding assays. ProOskn2:β-glucuronidase reporter expression was down-regulated by OsGRF3 and OsGRF10 in vivo, suggesting that these proteins function as transcriptional repressors. Likewise, we found that the GRF protein BGRF1 from barley (Hordeum vulgare) could act as a repressor on an intron sequence in the KNOX gene Hooded/Barley Knotted3 (Bkn3) and that AtGRF4, AtGRF5, and AtGRF6 from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) could repress KNOTTED-LIKE FROM ARABIDOPSIS THALIANA2 (KNAT2) promoter activity. OsGRF overexpression phenotypes in rice were consistent with aberrant meristematic activity, showing reduced formation of tillers and internodes and extensive adventitious root/shoot formation on nodes. These effects were associated with down-regulation of endogenous Oskn2 expression by OsGRF3. Conversely, RNA interference silencing of OsGRF3, OsGRF4, and OsGRF5 resulted in dwarfism, delayed growth and inflorescence formation, and up-regulation of Oskn2. These data demonstrate conserved interactions between the GRF and KNOX families of transcription factors in both monocot and dicot plants.
Symplasmic communication via plasmodesmata (PD) is part of the system of information exchange between plant cells. Molecules that pass through the PD include ions, some hormones, minerals, amino acids, and sugars but also proteins, transcription factors, and different classes of RNA, and as such PD can participate in the coordination of plant growth and development. This review summarizes the current literature on this subject and the role of PD in signal exchange, the importance of symplasmic communication and symplasmic domains in plant cell differentiation, and highlights the future prospective in the exploration of PD functions in plants. Moreover, this review also describes the potential use of barley root epidermis and non-zygotic embryogenesis in study of symplasmic communication during cell differentiation.
Cereals including wheat and barley are of primary importance to ensure food security for the 21st century. A combination of lab- and field-based approaches has led to a considerably improved understanding of the importance of organ and particularly of whole-plant (monocarpic) senescence for wheat and barley yield and quality. A delicate balance between senescence timing, grain nutrient content, nutrient-use efficiency, and yield needs to be considered to (further) improve cereal varieties for a given environment and end use. The recent characterization of the Gpc-1 (NAM-1) genes in wheat and barley demonstrates the interdependence of these traits. Lines or varieties with functional Gpc-1 genes demonstrate earlier senescence and enhanced grain protein and micronutrient content but, depending on the environment, somewhat reduced yields. A major effort is needed to dissect regulatory networks centred on additional wheat and barley transcription factors and signalling pathways influencing the senescence process. Similarly, while important molecular details of nutrient (particularly nitrogen) remobilization from senescing organs to developing grains have been identified, important knowledge gaps remain. The genes coding for the major proteases involved in senescence-associated plastidial protein degradation are largely unknown. Membrane transport proteins involved in the different transport steps occurring between senescing organ (such as leaf mesophyll) cells and protein bodies in the endosperm of developing grains remain to be identified or further characterized. Existing data suggest that an improved understanding of all these steps will reveal additional, important targets for continued cereal improvement.
Numerous studies have shown effects of abscisic acid (ABA) on nuclear genes encoding chloroplast-localized proteins. ABA effects on the transcription of chloroplast genes, however, have not been investigated yet thoroughly. This work, therefore, studied the effects of ABA (75 μM) on transcription and steady-state levels of transcripts in chloroplasts of basal and apical segments of primary leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Basal segments consist of young cells with developing chloroplasts, while apical segments contain the oldest cells with mature chloroplasts. Exogenous ABA reduced the chlorophyll content and caused changes of the endogenous concentrations not only of ABA but also of cytokinins to different extents in the basal and apical segments. It repressed transcription by the chloroplast phage-type and bacteria-type RNA polymerases and lowered transcript levels of most investigated chloroplast genes drastically. ABA did not repress the transcription of psbD and a few other genes and even increased psbD mRNA levels under certain conditions. The ABA effects on chloroplast transcription were more pronounced in basal vs. apical leaf segments and enhanced by light. Simultaneous application of cytokinin (22 μM 6-benzyladenine) minimized the ABA effects on chloroplast gene expression. These data demonstrate that ABA affects the expression of chloroplast genes differentially and points to a role of ABA in the regulation and coordination of the activities of nuclear and chloroplast genes coding for proteins with functions in photosynthesis.
Within the cereal grasses, variation in inflorescence architecture results in a conspicuous morphological diversity that in crop species influences the yield of cereal grains. Although significant progress has been made in identifying some of the genes underlying this variation in maize and rice, in the temperate cereals, a group that includes wheat, barley, and rye, only the dosage-dependent and highly pleiotropic Q locus in hexaploid wheat has been molecularly characterized. Here we show that the characteristic variation in the density of grains along the inflorescence, or spike, of modern cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare) is largely the consequence of a perturbed interaction between microRNA172 and its corresponding binding site in the mRNA of an APELATA2 (AP2)-like transcription factor, HvAP2. We used genome-wide association and biparental mapping to identify HvAP2. By comparing inflorescence development and HvAP2 transcript abundance in an extreme dense-spike mutant and its nearly isogenic WT line, we show that HvAP2 turnover driven by microRNA 172 regulates the length of a critical developmental window that is required for elongation of the inflorescence internodes. Our data indicate that this heterochronic change, an altered timing of developmental events caused by specific temporal variation in the efficiency of HvAP2 turnover, leads to the striking differences in the size and shape of the barley spike.
Barley HvNAC6 is a member of the plant-specific NAC (NAM, ATAF1,2, CUC2) transcription factor family and we have shown previously that it acts as a positive regulator of basal resistance in barley against the biotrophic pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh). In this study, we use a transgenic approach to constitutively silence HvNAC6 expression, using RNA interference (RNAi), to investigate the in vivo functions of HvNAC6 in basal resistance responses in barley in relation to the phytohormone ABA. The HvNAC6 RNAi plants displayed reduced HvNAC6 transcript levels and were more susceptible to Bgh than wild-type plants. Application of exogenous ABA increased basal resistance against Bgh in wild-type plants, but not in HvNAC6 RNAi plants, suggesting that ABA is a positive regulator of basal resistance which depends on HvNAC6. Silencing of HvNAC6 expression altered the light/dark rhythm of ABA levels which were, however, not influenced by Bgh inoculation. The expression of the two ABA biosynthetic genes HvNCED1 and HvNCED2 was compromised, and transcript levels of the ABA conjugating HvBG7 enzyme were elevated in the HvNAC6 RNAi lines, but this effect was not clearly associated with transgene-mediated resistance. Together, these data support a function of HvNAC6 as a regulator of ABA-mediated defence responses for maintenance of effective basal resistance against Bgh.
Fusarium pathogens are among the most damaging pathogens of cereals. These pathogens have the ability to attack the roots, seedlings, and flowering heads of barley and wheat plants with disease, resulting in yield loss and head blight disease and also resulting in the contamination of grain with mycotoxins harmful to human and animal health. There is increasing evidence that brassinosteroid (BR) hormones play an important role in plant defense against both biotic and abiotic stress agents and this study set out to determine if and how BR might affect Fusarium diseases of barley. Application of the epibrassinolide (epiBL) to heads of 'Lux' barley reduced the severity of Fusarium head blight (FHB) caused by Fusarium culmorum by 86% and reduced the FHB-associated loss in grain weight by 33%. Growth of plants in soil amended with epiBL resulted in a 28 and 35% reduction in Fusarium seedling blight (FSB) symptoms on the Lux and 'Akashinriki' barley, respectively. Microarray analysis was used to determine whether growth in epiBL-amended soil changed the transcriptional profile in stem base tissue during the early stages of FSB development. At 24 and 48 h post F. culmorum inoculation, there were 146 epiBL-responsive transcripts, the majority being from the 48-h time point (n = 118). Real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis validated the results for eight transcripts, including five defense genes. The results of gene expression studies show that chromatin remodeling, hormonal signaling, photosynthesis, and pathogenesis-related genes are activated in plants as a result of growth in epiBL.
Melanin plays an important role protecting skin against ultraviolet light injury. However, increased production and accumulation of melanin results in a large number of skin disorders. Here, we identified hordenine as an active compound from germinated barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and investigated the effects of hordenine on melanogenesis and its mechanisms of action in human epidermal melanocytes. We measured melanin content, tyrosinase activity, expression of melanogenesis-related proteins, and cAMP production. Melanin content was significantly inhibited by hordenine. The intracellular cAMP level was also reduced by hordenine. In addition, expression of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF), an upstream transcription factor of tyrosinase as well as tyrosinase, tyrosinase related protein (TRP)-1, and TRP-2, was inhibited by hordenine. Taken together, these results show that hordenine inhibited melanogenesis by suppressing cAMP production, which is involved in the expression of melanogenesis-related proteins and suggest that hordenine may be an effective inhibitor of hyperpigmentation.
The root architecture of higher plants is amazingly diverse. In this review, we compare the lateral root developmental programme in cereals and Arabidopsis thaliana. In cereals, cells in the endodermis are recruited to form the new root cap and overlying cortical cells divide to facilitate the emergence of the lateral root primordium. The TIR1/ABF2 auxin receptors and the AUX/IAA, ARF, and LBD transcriptional regulatory proteins are conserved in cereals and Arabidopsis. Several elements of this regulatory network are common to lateral and crown roots in cereals. Also, the ground meristem from which crown roots differentiate shows similarities with the root pericycle. Studies in cereals promise to give complementary insights into the mechanisms regulating the development of post-embryonic roots in plants.
Previously, we identified >1,500 genes that were induced by high salt stress in sheepgrass (Leymus chinensis, Gramineae: Triticeae) when comparing the changes in their transcription levels in response to high salt stress by next-generation sequencing. Among the identified genes, a gene of unknown function (designated as Leymus chinensis salt-induced 1, LcSAIN1) showed a high sequence identity to its homologs from wheat, Hordeum vulgare and Oryza sativa, but LcSAIN1 and its homologs produce hypothetical proteins with no conserved functional domains. Transcription of the LcSAIN1 gene was up-regulated by various stresses. The overexpression of LcSAIN1 in Arabidopsis and rice increased the greening rate of cotyledons, the fresh weight, root elongation, plant height and the plant survival rate when compared with control plants and conferred a tolerance against salt stress. Subcellular localization analysis indicated that LcSAIN1 is localized predominantly in the nucleus. Our results show that the LcSAIN1 gene might play an important positive modulation role in increasing the expression of transcription factors (MYB2 and DREB2A) and functional genes (P5CS and RAB18) in transgenic plants under salt stress and that it augments stress tolerance through the accumulation of compatible solutes (proline and soluble sugar) and the alleviation of changes in reactive oxygen species. The LcSAIN1 gene could be a potential resource for engineering salinity tolerance in important crop species.
Transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) enable targeted mutagenesis in a variety of organisms. The primary advantage of TALENs over other sequence-specific nucleases, namely zinc finger nucleases and meganucleases, lies in their ease of assembly, reliability of function, and their broad targeting range. Here we report the assembly of several TALENs for a specific genomic locus in barley. The cleavage activity of individual TALENs was first tested in vivo using a yeast-based, single-strand annealing assay. The most efficient TALEN was then selected for barley transformation. Analysis of the resulting transformants showed that TALEN-induced double strand breaks led to the introduction of short deletions at the target site. Additional analysis revealed that each barley transformant contained a range of different mutations, indicating that mutations occurred independently in different cells.
Transcriptional activation of the VERNALIZATION1 gene mediates the acceleration of flowering by prolonged cold (vernalization) in temperate cereals. This study examined the earliest stages of the transcriptional response of VRN1 to low temperatures. Time-course analyses, using a sensitive quantitative PCR assay, showed that in sprouting barley seedlings VRN1 transcripts begin to accumulate within 24 hours of the onset of cold. The kinetics of the initial transcriptional response of VRN1 to cold was similar to the cold-induced genes DEHYDRIN5 (DHN5) and COLD REGULATED 14B (COR14B), but occurred at lower levels compared to cold acclimation genes or the response to longer cold treatments. Temperatures between 15 and -2 °C induced expression of VRN1 within 24 hours, with a maximal response observed between 2 and -2 °C. Transcriptional induction was also observed in undifferentiated callus cells. There were significant increases in histone acetylation levels at the VRN1 locus in response to 24-hour cold treatment. Sodium butyrate, a histone deacetylation inhibitor, triggered an increase in histone acetylation at VRN1 chromatin and elevated VRN1 transcript levels. The transcriptional response of VRN1 to short-term cold treatment was examined in near-isogenic lines that have different VRN1 genotypes, showing that an allele of the barley VRN1 gene with an insertion in the first intron and high basal expression levels has a reduced transcriptional response to short term cold treatment. This study suggests that low-temperature induction of VRN1 is a cellular response to cold triggered by the same mechanisms that mediate low-temperature induction of cold acclimation genes.
The enhancement of winter hardiness is one of the most important tasks facing breeders of winter cereals. For this reason, the examination of those regulatory genes involved in the cold acclimation processes is of central importance. The aim of the present work was the functional analysis of two wheat CBF transcription factors, namely TaCBF14 and TaCBF15, shown by previous experiments to play a role in the development of frost tolerance. These genes were isolated from winter wheat and then transformed into spring barley, after which the effect of the transgenes on low temperature stress tolerance was examined. Two different types of frost tests were applied; plants were hardened at low temperature before freezing, or plants were subjected to frost without a hardening period. The analysis showed that TaCBF14 and TaCBF15 transgenes improve the frost tolerance to such an extent that the transgenic lines were able to survive freezing temperatures several degrees lower than that which proved lethal for the wild-type spring barley. After freezing, lower ion leakage was measured in transgenic leaves, showing that these plants were less damaged by the frost. Additionally, a higher Fv/Fm parameter was determined, indicating that photosystem II worked more efficiently in the transgenics. Gene expression studies showed that HvCOR14b, HvDHN5, and HvDHN8 genes were up-regulated by TaCBF14 and TaCBF15. Beyond that, transgenic lines exhibited moderate retarded development, slower growth, and minor late flowering compared with the wild type, with enhanced transcript level of the gibberellin catabolic HvGA2ox5 gene.
Boron stress is an environmental factor affecting plant development and production. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have been found to be involved in several plant processes such as growth regulation and stress responses. In this study, miRNAs associated with boron stress were identified and characterized in barley. miRNA profiles were also comparatively analyzed between root and leave samples. A total of 31 known and 3 new miRNAs were identified in barley; 25 of them were found to respond to boron treatment. Several miRNAs were expressed in a tissue specific manner; for example, miR156d, miR171a, miR397, and miR444a were only detected in leaves. Additionally, a total of 934 barley transcripts were found to be specifically targeted and degraded by miRNAs. In silico analysis of miRNA target genes demonstrated that many miRNA targets are conserved transcription factors such as Squamosa promoter-binding protein, Auxin response factor (ARF), and the MYB transcription factor family. A majority of these targets were responsible for plant growth and response to environmental changes. We also propose that some of the miRNAs in barley such as miRNA408 might play critical roles against boron exposure. In conclusion, barley may use several pathways and cellular processes targeted by miRNAs to cope with boron stress.
MYB family of transcription factors (TF) comprises one of the largest transcription factors in plants and is represented in all eukaryotes. They include highly conserved MYB repeats (1R, R2R3, 3R, and 4R) in the N-terminus. In addition to this, they have diverse C-terminal sequences which help the protein gain wide distinct functions, such as controlling development, secondary metabolism, hormonal regulation and response to biotic and abiotic stress. Stress-responsive roles of the MYB TFs were reported for drought, salt, wounding, cold, freezing, dehydration and osmotic stresses. This study describes the identification of barley R2R3-MYB TFs including their expression analysis in tissues under control and Boron (B) toxic conditions. Conserved motifs for MYB proteins were searched into barley full-transcriptome RNA-seq data and a total of 320 protein sequences were filtered as MYB TFs in which 51 of them corresponded to R2R3 MYB TFs. Using various bioinformatics tools, their conserved domain structures, chromosomal distributions, gene duplications, comparative functional analysis, as well as phylogenetic relations with Arabidopsis thaliana, were conducted. Beside the RNA-seq data-based expression pattern analysis of 51 R2R3 MYB TFs, quantitative analysis of selected R2R3 MYB TF genes was assessed in control and B-stressed root and leaf tissues. Critical B-induced R2R3 MYB TFs were identified. It was concluded that the results would be useful for functional characterizations of R2R3-type MYB transcription factors that are possibly involved in both B stress and divergent regulation mechanisms in plants.
About 8,000 years ago in the Fertile Crescent, a spontaneous hybridization of the wild diploid grass Aegilops tauschii (2n = 14; DD) with the cultivated tetraploid wheat Triticum turgidum (2n = 4x = 28; AABB) resulted in hexaploid wheat (T. aestivum; 2n = 6x = 42; AABBDD). Wheat has since become a primary staple crop worldwide as a result of its enhanced adaptability to a wide range of climates and improved grain quality for the production of baker's flour. Here we describe sequencing the Ae. tauschii genome and obtaining a roughly 90-fold depth of short reads from libraries with various insert sizes, to gain a better understanding of this genetically complex plant. The assembled scaffolds represented 83.4% of the genome, of which 65.9% comprised transposable elements. We generated comprehensive RNA-Seq data and used it to identify 43,150 protein-coding genes, of which 30,697 (71.1%) were uniquely anchored to chromosomes with an integrated high-density genetic map. Whole-genome analysis revealed gene family expansion in Ae. tauschii of agronomically relevant gene families that were associated with disease resistance, abiotic stress tolerance and grain quality. This draft genome sequence provides insight into the environmental adaptation of bread wheat and can aid in defining the large and complicated genomes of wheat species.
The nucleotide binding domain and Leucine-rich repeat (NLR)-containing proteins in plants and animals mediate pathogen sensing inside host cells and mount innate immune responses against microbial pathogens. The barley (Hordeum vulgare) mildew A (MLA) locus encodes coiled-coil (CC)-type NLRs mediating disease resistance against the powdery mildew pathogen Blumeria graminis. Here, we report direct interactions between MLA and two antagonistically acting transcription factors, MYB6 and WRKY1. The N-terminal CC signaling domain of MLA interacts with MYB6 to stimulate its DNA binding activity. MYB6 functions as a positive regulator of basal and MLA-mediated immunity responses to B. graminis. MYB6 DNA binding is antagonized by direct association with WRKY1 repressor, which in turn also interacts with the MLA CC domain. The activated form of full-length MLA10 receptor is needed to release MYB6 activator from WRKY1 repression and to stimulate MYB6-dependent gene expression. This implies that, while sequestered by the WRKY1 repressor in the presence of the resting immune receptor, MYB6 acts as an immediate and positive postactivation signaling component of the active state of MLA during transcriptional reprogramming for innate immune responses.
The transitions from juvenile to adult and adult to reproductive phases of growth are important stages in the life cycle of plants. The regulators of these transitions include miRNAs, in particular miR156 and miR172 which are part of a regulatory module conserved across the angiosperms. In Arabidopsis miR171 represses differentiation of axillary meristems by repressing expression of SCARECROW-LIKE(SCL) transcription factors, however the role of miR171 has not been examined in other plants. To investigate the roles of mir171 and its target genes in a monocot, the Hvu pri-miR171a was over-expressed in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Golden promise) leading to reduced expression of at least one HvSCL gene. The resulting transgenic plants displayed a pleiotropic phenotype which included branching defects, an increased number of short vegetative phytomers and late flowering. These phenotypes appear to be the consequence of changes in the organisation of the shoot meristem. In addition, the data show that miR171 over-expression alters the vegetative to reproductive phase transition by activating the miR156 pathway and repressing the expression of the TRD (THIRD OUTER GLUME) and HvPLA1 (Plastochron1) genes. Our data suggest that some of the roles of miR171 and its target genes that have been determined in Arabidopsis are conserved in barley and that they have additional functions in barley including activation of the miR156 pathway.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) spikes are developmentally switched from two-rowed to six-rowed by a single recessive gene, six-rowed spike 1 (vrs1), which encodes a homeodomain-leucine zipper I class transcription factor. Vrs1 is a paralog of HvHox2 and both were generated by duplication of an ancestral gene. HvHox2 is conserved among cereals, whereas Vrs1 acquired its current function during the evolution of barley. It was unclear whether divergence of expression pattern or protein function accounted for the functionalization of Vrs1. Here, we conducted a comparative analysis of protein functions and gene expression between HvHox2 and Vrs1 to clarify the functionalization mechanism. We revealed that the transcriptional activation activity of HvHOX2 and VRS1 was conserved. In situ hybridization analysis showed that HvHox2 is localized in vascular bundles in developing spikes, whereas Vrs1 is expressed exclusively in the pistil, lemma, palea and lodicule of lateral spikelets. The transcript abundance of Vrs1 was > 10-fold greater than that of HvHox2 during the pistil developmental stage, suggesting that the essential function of Vrs1 is to inhibit gynoecial development. We demonstrated the quantitative function of Vrs1 using RNAi transgenic plants and Vrs1 expression variants. Expression analysis of six-rowed spike mutants that are nonallelic to vrs1 showed that Vrs1 expression was up-regulated by Vrs4, whereas HvHox2 expression was not. These data demonstrate that the divergence of gene expression pattern contributed to the neofunctionalization of Vrs1.
In Arabidopsis and rice, miR159-regulated GAMYB-like family transcription factors function in flower development and gibberellin (GA) signaling in cereal aleurone cells. In this study, the involvement of miR159 in the regulation of its putative target TaGAMYB and its relationship to wheat development were investigated. First, we demonstrated that cleavage of TaGAMYB1 and TaGAMYB2 was directed by miR159 using 5'-RACE and a transient expression system. Second, we overexpressed TamiR159, TaGAMYB1 and mTaGAMYB1 (impaired in the miR159 binding site) in transgenic rice, revealing that the accumulation in rice of mature miR159 derived from the precursor of wheat resulted in delayed heading time and male sterility. In addition, the number of tillers and primary branches in rice overexpressing mTaGAMYB1 increased relative to the wild type. Our previous study reported that TamiR159 was downregulated after two hours of heat stress treatment in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Most notably, the TamiR159 overexpression rice lines were more sensitive to heat stress relative to the wild type, indicating that the downregulation of TamiR159 in wheat after heat stress might participate in a heat stress-related signaling pathway, in turn contributing to heat stress tolerance.
Transcription factors (TFs) are proteins that have played a central role both in evolution and in domestication, and are major regulators of development in living organisms. Plant genome sequences reveal that approximately 7% of all genes encode putative TFs. The DOF (DNA binding with One Finger) TF family has been associated with vital processes exclusive to higher plants and to their close ancestors (algae, mosses and ferns). These are seed maturation and germination, light-mediated regulation, phytohormone and plant responses to biotic and abiotic stresses, etc. In Hordeum vulgare and Oryza sativa, 26 and 30 different Dof genes, respectively, have been annotated. Brachypodium distachyon has been the first Pooideae grass to be sequenced and, due to its genomic, morphological and physiological characteristics, has emerged as the model system for temperate cereals, such as wheat and barley. Through searches in the B. distachyon genome, 27 Dof genes have been identified and a phylogenetic comparison with the Oryza sativa and the Hordeum vulgare DOFs has been performed. To explore the evolutionary relationship among these DOF proteins, a combined phylogenetic tree has been constructed with the Brachypodium DOFs and those from rice and barley. This phylogenetic analysis has classified the DOF proteins into four Major Cluster of Orthologous Groups (MCOGs). Using RT-qPCR analysis the expression profiles of the annotated BdDof genes across four organs (leaves, roots, spikes and seeds) has been investigated. These results have led to a classification of the BdDof genes into two groups, according to their expression levels. The genes highly or preferentially expressed in seeds have been subjected to a more detailed expression analysis (maturation, dry stage and germination). Comparison of the expression profiles of the Brachypodium Dof genes with the published functions of closely related DOF sequences from the cereal species considered here, deduced from the phylogenetic analysis, indicates that although the expression profile has been conserved in many of the putative orthologs, in some cases duplication followed by subsequent divergence may have occurred (neo-functionalization).
The cuticle is an important adaptive structure whose origin played a crucial role in the transition of plants from aqueous to terrestrial conditions. HvABCG31/Eibi1 is an ABCG transporter gene, involved in cuticle formation that was recently identified in wild barley (Hordeum vulgare ssp. spontaneum). To study the genetic variation of HvABCG31 in different habitats, its 2 kb promoter region was sequenced from 112 wild barley accessions collected from five natural populations from southern and northern Israel. The sites included three mesic and two xeric habitats, and differed in annual rainfall, soil type, and soil water capacity. Phylogenetic analysis of the aligned HvABCG31 promoter sequences clustered the majority of accessions (69 out of 71) from the three northern mesic populations into one cluster, while all 21 accessions from the Dead Sea area, a xeric southern population, and two isolated accessions (one from a xeric population at Mitzpe Ramon and one from the xeric 'African Slope' of "Evolution Canyon") formed the second cluster. The southern arid populations included six haplotypes, but they differed from the consensus sequence at a large number of positions, while the northern mesic populations included 15 haplotypes that were, on average, more similar to the consensus sequence. Most of the haplotypes (20 of 22) were unique to a population. Interestingly, higher genetic variation occurred within populations (54.2%) than among populations (45.8%). Analysis of the promoter region detected a large number of transcription factor binding sites: 121-128 and 121-134 sites in the two southern arid populations, and 123-128,125-128, and 123-125 sites in the three northern mesic populations. Three types of TFBSs were significantly enriched: those related to GA (gibberellin), Dof (DNA binding with one finger), and light. Drought stress and adaptive natural selection may have been important determinants in the observed sequence variation of HvABCG31 promoter. Abiotic stresses may be involved in the HvABCG31 gene transcription regulations, generating more protective cuticles in plants under stresses.
MADS-box genes constitute a large family of transcription factors functioning as key regulators of many processes during plant vegetative and reproductive development. Type II MADS-box genes have been intensively investigated and are mostly involved in vegetative and flowering development. A growing number of studies of Type I MADS-box genes in Arabidopsis, have assigned crucial roles for these genes in gamete and seed development and have demonstrated that a number of Type I MADS-box genes are epigenetically regulated by DNA methylation and histone modifications. However, reports on agronomically important cereals such as barley and wheat are scarce. Here we report the identification and characterization of two Type I-like MADS-box genes, from barley (Hordeum vulgare), a monocot cereal crop of high agronomic importance. Protein sequence and phylogenetic analysis showed that the putative proteins are related to Type I MADS-box proteins, and classified them in a distinct cereal clade. Significant differences in gene expression among seed developmental stages and between barley cultivars with varying seed size were revealed for both genes. One of these genes was shown to be induced by the seed development- and stress-related hormones ABA and JA whereas in situ hybridizations localized the other gene to specific endosperm sub-compartments. The genomic organization of the latter has high conservation with the cereal Type I-like MADS-box homologues and the chromosomal position of both genes is close to markers associated with seed quality traits. DNA methylation differences are present in the upstream and downstream regulatory regions of the barley Type I-like MADS-box genes in two different developmental stages and in response to ABA treatment which may be associated with gene expression differences. Two barley MADS-box genes were studied that are related to Type I MADS-box genes. Differential expression in different seed developmental stages as well as in barley cultivars with different seed size was evidenced for both genes. The two barley Type I MADS-box genes were found to be induced by ABA and JA. DNA methylation differences in different seed developmental stages and after exogenous application of ABA is suggestive of epigenetic regulation of gene expression. The study of barley Type I-like MADS-box genes extends our investigations of gene regulation during endosperm and seed development in a monocot crop like barley.
Transcription factors (TFs), microRNAs (miRNAs), small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and other functional non-coding small RNAs (sRNAs) are important gene regulators. Comparison of sRNA expression profiles between transgenic barley over-expressing a drought tolerant TF (TaDREB3) and non-transgenic control barley revealed many group-specific sRNAs. In addition, 42% of the shared sRNAs were differentially expressed between the two groups (|log(2)| >1). Furthermore, TaDREB3-derived sRNAs were only detected in transgenic barley despite the existence of homologous genes in non-transgenic barley. These results demonstrate that the TF strongly affects the expression of sRNAs and siRNAs could in turn affect the TF stability. The TF also affects size distribution and abundance of sRNAs including miRNAs. About half of the sRNAs in each group were derived from chloroplast. A sRNA derived from tRNA-His(GUG) encoded by the chloroplast genome is the most abundant sRNA, accounting for 42.2% of the total sRNAs in transgenic barley and 28.9% in non-transgenic barley. This sRNA, which targets a gene (TC245676) involved in biological processes, was only present in barley leaves but not roots. 124 and 136 miRNAs were detected in transgenic and non-transgenic barley, respectively. miR156 was the most abundant miRNA and up-regulated in transgenic barley, while miR168 was the most abundant miRNA and up-regulated in non-transgenic barley. Eight out of 20 predicted novel miRNAs were differentially expressed between the two groups. All the predicted novel miRNA targets were validated using a degradome library. Our data provide an insight into the effect of TF on the expression of sRNAs in barley.
The tightly bound proteins (TBPs), a protein group that remains attached to DNA either covalently or noncovalently after deproteinization, have been found in numerous eukaryotic species. Some TBPs isolated from mammalian and yeast cells possess phosphatase or kinase activity. The aim of this study was to characterize further TBPs in barley (Hordeum vulgare) cells. The spectra of TBPs varied in different organs of barley shoots (first leaves, coleoptile, and roots) and at different developmental stages of the plant. Some barley TBPs manifested phosphatase, probably Ser/Thr or dual Ser/Thr/Tyr activity. MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry of barley TBPs identified several proteins involved in chromatin rearrangement and regulation processes, including transcription factors, serpins, protein phosphatases and protein kinases, RNA helicases, and DNA topoisomerase II.
WRKY proteins represent a large family of transcription factors (TF), involved in plant development and defense. In all, 60 unique barley TF have been annotated that contain the WRKY domain; 26 of these are represented on the Barley1 GeneChip. Time-course expression profiles of these 26 HvWRKY TF were analyzed to investigate their role in mildew locus a (Mla)-mediated immunity to Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei, causal agent of powdery mildew disease. Inoculation-responsive, Mla-specified interactions with B. graminis f. sp. hordei revealed that 12 HvWRKY were differentially expressed: 10 highly upregulated and two significantly downregulated. Barley stripe mosaic virus-induced gene silencing of HvWRKY10, HvWRKY19, and HvWRKY28 compromised resistance-gene-mediated defense to powdery mildew in genotypes harboring both Rar1-dependent and Rar1-independent Mla alleles, indicating that these WRKY TF play key roles in effector-triggered immunity. Comprehensive yeast two-hybrid analyses, however, did not reveal a direct interaction between these three nuclear-localized WRKY TF and MLA. Transient overexpression of all three WRKY TF in single cells expressing Mlo, which encodes a negative regulator of penetration resistance, significantly decreased susceptibility. Taken together, these loss- and gain-of-function studies demonstrate that HvWRKY10, HvWRKY19, and HvWRKY28 positively regulate the barley transcriptome in response to invasion by B. graminis f. sp. hordei.
The awn, an apical extension from the lemma of the spikelet, plays important roles in seed dispersal, burial, and photosynthesis. Barley typically has long awns, but short-awn variants exist. The short awn 2 (lks2) gene, which produces awns about 50% shorter than normal, is a natural variant that is restricted to Eastern Asia. Positional cloning revealed that Lks2 encodes a SHI-family transcription factor. Allelism tests showed that lks2 is allelic to unbranched style 4 (ubs4) and breviaristatum-d (ari-d), for which the phenotypes are very short awn and sparse stigma hairs. The gene identity was validated by 25 mutant alleles with lesions in the Lks2 gene. Of these, 17 affected either or both conserved regions: the zinc-binding RING-finger motif and the IGGH domain. Lks2 is highly expressed in awns and pistils. Histological observations of longitudinal awn sections showed that the lks2 short-awn phenotype resulted from reduced cell number. Natural variants of lks2 were classified into three types, but all shared a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) that causes a proline-to-leucine change at position 245 in the IGGH domain. All three lks2 natural variants were regarded as weak alleles because their awn and pistil phenotypes are mild compared with those of the 25 mutant alleles. Natural variants of lks2 found in the east of China and the Himalayas had considerably different sequences in the regions flanking the critical SNP, suggesting independent origins. The available results suggest that the lks2 allele might have a selective advantage in the adaptation of barley to high-precipitation areas of Eastern Asia.
Germination is a unique developmental transition from metabolically quiescent seed to actively growing seedling that requires an ensemble of hydrolases for coordinated nutrient mobilization to support heterotrophic growth until autotrophic photosynthesis is established. This study reveals two crucial transcription factors, MYBS1 and MYBGA, present in rice (Oryza sativa) and barley (Hordeum vulgare), that function to integrate diverse nutrient starvation and gibberellin (GA) signaling pathways during germination of cereal grains. Sugar represses but sugar starvation induces MYBS1 synthesis and its nuclear translocation. GA antagonizes sugar repression by enhancing conuclear transport of the GA-inducible MYBGA with MYBS1 and the formation of a stable bipartite MYB-DNA complex to activate the α-amylase gene. We further discovered that not only sugar but also nitrogen and phosphate starvation signals converge and interconnect with GA to promote the conuclear import of MYBS1 and MYBGA, resulting in the expression of a large set of GA-inducible but functionally distinct hydrolases, transporters, and regulators associated with mobilization of the full complement of nutrients to support active seedling growth in cereals.
The circadian clock is an endogenous mechanism that coordinates biological processes with daily changes in the environment. In plants, circadian rhythms contribute to both agricultural productivity and evolutionary fitness. In barley, the photoperiod response regulator and flowering-time gene Ppd-H1 is orthologous to the Arabidopsis core-clock gene PRR7. However, relatively little is known about the role of Ppd-H1 and other components of the circadian clock in temperate crop species. In this study, we identified barley clock orthologs and tested the effects of natural genetic variation at Ppd-H1 on diurnal and circadian expression of clock and output genes from the photoperiod-response pathway. Barley clock orthologs HvCCA1, HvGI, HvPRR1, HvPRR37 (Ppd-H1), HvPRR73, HvPRR59 and HvPRR95 showed a high level of sequence similarity and conservation of diurnal and circadian expression patterns, when compared to Arabidopsis. The natural mutation at Ppd-H1 did not affect diurnal or circadian cycling of barley clock genes. However, the Ppd-H1 mutant was found to be arrhythmic under free-running conditions for the photoperiod-response genes HvCO1, HvCO2, and the MADS-box transcription factor and vernalization responsive gene Vrn-H1. We suggest that the described eudicot clock is largely conserved in the monocot barley. However, genetic differentiation within gene families and differences in the function of Ppd-H1 suggest evolutionary modification in the angiosperm clock. Our data indicates that natural variation at Ppd-H1 does not affect the expression level of clock genes, but controls photoperiodic output genes. Circadian control of Vrn-H1 in barley suggests that this vernalization responsive gene is also controlled by the photoperiod-response pathway. Structural and functional characterization of the barley circadian clock will set the basis for future studies of the adaptive significance of the circadian clock in Triticeae species.
The circadian clock is an autonomous oscillator that produces endogenous biological rhythms with a period of about 24 h. This clock allows organisms to coordinate their metabolism and development with predicted daily and seasonal changes of the environment. In plants, circadian rhythms contribute to both evolutionary fitness and agricultural productivity. Nevertheless, we show that commercial barley varieties bred for short growing seasons by use of early maturity 8 (eam8) mutations, also termed mat-a, are severely compromised in clock gene expression and clock outputs. We identified EAM8 as a barley ortholog of the Arabidopsis thaliana circadian clock regulator EARLY FLOWERING3 (ELF3) and demonstrate that eam8 accelerates the transition from vegetative to reproductive growth and inflorescence development. We propose that eam8 was selected as barley cultivation moved to high-latitude short-season environments in Europe because it allowed rapid flowering in genetic backgrounds that contained a previously selected late-flowering mutation of the photoperiod response gene Ppd-H1. We show that eam8 mutants have increased expression of the floral activator HvFT1, which is independent of allelic variation at Ppd-H1. The selection of independent eam8 mutations shows that this strategy facilitates short growth-season adaptation and expansion of the geographic range of barley, despite the pronounced clock defect.
Immunolabeling, combined with chemical analyses and transcript profiling, have provided a comprehensive temporal and spatial picture of the deposition and modification of cell wall polysaccharides during barley (Hordeum vulgare) grain development, from endosperm cellularization at 3 d after pollination (DAP) through differentiation to the mature grain at 38 DAP. (1→3)-β-D-Glucan appears transiently during cellularization but reappears in patches in the subaleurone cell walls around 20 DAP. (1→3, 1→4)-β-Glucan, the most abundant polysaccharide of the mature barley grain, accumulates throughout development. Arabino-(1-4)-β-D-xylan is deposited significantly earlier than we previously reported. This was attributable to the initial deposition of the polysaccharide in a highly substituted form that was not recognized by antibodies commonly used to detect arabino-(1-4)-β-D-xylans in sections of plant material. The epitopes needed for antibody recognition were exposed by pretreatment of sections with α-L-arabinofuranosidase; this procedure showed that arabino-(1-4)-β-D-xylans were deposited as early as 5 DAP and highlighted their changing structures during endosperm development. By 28 DAP labeling of hetero-(1→4)-β-D-mannan is observed in the walls of the starchy endosperm but not in the aleurone walls. Although absent in mature endosperm cell walls we now show that xyloglucan is present transiently from 3 until about 6 DAP and disappears by 8 DAP. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction of transcripts for GLUCAN SYNTHASE-LIKE, Cellulose Synthase, and CELLULOSE SYNTHASE-LIKE genes were consistent with the patterns of polysaccharide deposition. Transcript profiling of some members from the Carbohydrate-Active Enzymes database glycosyl transferase families GT61, GT47, and GT43, previously implicated in arabino-(1-4)-β-d-xylan biosynthesis, confirms their presence during grain development.
A number of genes are involved in the vernalization pathway, such as VRN1, VRN2 and VRN3/FT1, whose function has been studied in barley and wheat. However, the function of the flowering and vernalization integrator SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CONSTANS 1 (SOC1) has not been well studied in Triticeae, and particularly in barley. Herein, we cloned and characterized two barley SOC1-like homologs, HvSOC1-like1 and HvSOC1-like2. Primary sequence analysis of the predicted HvSOC1-like1 and HvSOC1-like2 proteins showed that they are members of the type II MADS-box protein family. Phylogenetic analysis placed the predicted proteins with other SOC1 and SOC1-like proteins from different species neighboring those from other cereal plant species. Primary and secondary structures of the predicted proteins are conserved to each other and more distant to the recently identified barley ODDSOC1 proteins. Genomic organization of HvSOC1-like1 is very similar to the Arabidopsis and Brachypodium SOC1 genes and localized in highly syntenic chromosomal regions. Regulatory cis-acting elements detected in the HvSOC1-like1 promoter include the CArG-box, implicated in the regulation of SOC1 expression in Arabidopsis. Both HvSOC1-like1 and HvSOCI-like2 are expressed in vegetative and reproductive tissues and at different stages of seed development. Both are upregulated in a particular seed developmental stage suggesting their possible implication in seed development. Furthermore, HvSOC1-like1 was induced in two winter barley cultivars after vernalization treatment pointing to its probable involvement in the vernalization process. The study of the SOC1 genes reported here opens the way for a better understanding of both the vernalization process and seed development and germination in this important cereal crop.
The Osmyb4 rice gene, coding for a transcription factor, proved to be efficient against different abiotic stresses as a trans(cis)gene in several plant species, although the effectiveness was dependent on the host genomic background. Eight barley transgenic lines carrying the rice Osmyb4 gene under the control of the Arabidopsis cold inducible promoter cor15a were produced to test the efficiency of this gene in barley. After a preliminary test, the best performing lines were subjected to freezing at -11°C and -12°C. Frost tolerance was assessed measured the F(v)/F(m) parameter widely used to indicate the maximum quantum yield of photosystem II photochemistry in the dark adapted state. Three transgenic lines showed significantly increased tolerance. These selected lines were further studied under a complex stress applying cold and hypoxia at germinating stage. In these conditions the three selected transgenic lines outperformed the wild type barley in terms of germination vigour. The transgenic plants also showed a significant modification of their metabolism under cold/hypoxia conditions as demonstrated through the assessment of the activity of key enzymes involved in anoxic stress response. None of the transgenic lines showed dwarfism, just a slight retarded growth. These results provide evidence that the cold dependent expression of Osmyb4 can efficiently improved frost tolerance and germination vigour at low temperature without deleterious effect on plant growth.
An important link between the environment and the physiological state of bacteria is the regulation of the transcription of a large number of genes by global transcription factors. One of the global regulators, Fis (factor for inversion stimulation), is well studied in Escherichia coli, but the role of this protein in pseudomonads has only been examined briefly. According to studies in Enterobacteriaceae, Fis regulates positively the flagellar movement of bacteria. In pseudomonads, flagellar movement is an important trait for the colonization of plant roots. Therefore we were interested in the role of the Fis protein in Pseudomonas putida, especially the possible regulation of the colonization of plant roots. We observed that Fis reduced the migration of P. putida onto the apices of barley roots and thereby the competitiveness of bacteria on the roots. Moreover, we observed that overexpression of Fis drastically reduced swimming motility and facilitated P. putida biofilm formation, which could be the reason for the decreased migration of bacteria onto the root apices. It is possible that the elevated expression of Fis is important in the adaptation of P. putida during colonization of plant roots by promoting biofilm formation when the migration of bacteria is no longer favoured.
The TaPR61 gene from bread wheat encodes a lipid transfer protein (LTP) with a hydrophobic signal peptide, predicted to direct the TaPR61 protein to the apoplast. Modelling of TaPR61 revealed the presence of an internal cavity which can accommodate at least two lipid molecules. The full-length gene, including the promoter sequence of a TaPR61 orthologue, was cloned from a BAC library of Triticum durum. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed the presence of TaPR61 and TdPR61 mainly in grain. A transcriptional TdPR61 promoter-GUS fusion was stably transformed into wheat, barley, and rice. The strongest GUS expression in all three plants was found in the endosperm transfer cells, the embryo surrounding region (ESR), and in the embryo. The promoter is strong and has similar but not identical spatial patterns of activity in wheat, barley, and rice. These results suggest that the TdPR61 promoter will be a useful tool for improving grain quality by manipulating the quality and quantity of nutrient/lipid uptake to the endosperm and embryo. Mapping of regions important for the promoter function using transient expression assays in developing embryos resulted in the identification of two segments important for promoter activation in embryos. The putative cis-elements from the distal segment were used as bait in a yeast 1-hybrid (Y1H) screen of a cDNA library prepared from the liquid part of the wheat multinucleate syncytium. A transcription factor isolated in the screen is similar to BES1/BLZ1 from Arabidopsis, which is known to be a key transcriptional regulator of the brassinosteroid signalling pathway.
An X-ray mutant showing an early flowering phenotype has been identified in einkorn wheat (Triticum monococcum L.), for which a major QTL for heading time was previously mapped in the telomeric region on the long arm of chromosome 3A. Recent advances in Triticeae genomics revealed that the gene order in this region is highly conserved between wheat and barley. Thus, we adopted a hypothetical gene order in barley, the so-called GenomeZipper, to develop DNA markers for fine mapping the target gene in wheat. We identified three genes tightly linked to the early heading phenotype. PCR analysis revealed that early-flowering is associated with the deletion of two genes in the mutant. Of the two deleted genes, one is an ortholog of the LUX ARRHYTHMO (LUX)/PHYTOCLOCK 1 (PCL1) gene found in Arabidopsis, which regulates the circadian clock and flowering time. We found distorted expression patterns of two clock genes (TOC1 and LHY) in the einkorn pcl1 deletion mutant as was reported for the Arabidopsis lux mutant. Transcript accumulation levels of photoperiod-response related genes, a photoperiod sensitivity gene (Ppd-1) and two wheat CONSTANS-like genes (WCO1 and TaHd1), were significantly higher in the einkorn wheat mutant. In addition, transcripts of the wheat florigen gene (WFT) accumulated temporally under short-day conditions in the einkorn wheat mutant. These results suggest that deletion of WPCL1 leads to abnormally higher expression of Ppd-1, resulting in the accumulation of WFT transcripts that triggers flowering even under short-day conditions. Our observations from gene mapping, gene deletions, and expression levels of flowering related genes strongly suggest that WPCL1 is the most likely candidate gene for controlling the early flowering phenotype in the einkorn wheat mutant.
Vernalization, a period of low temperature to induce transition from vegetative to reproductive state, is an important environmental stimulus for many cool season grasses. A key gene in the vernalization pathway in grasses is the VRN1 gene. The objective of this study was to identify causative polymorphism(s) at the VRN1 locus in perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) for variation in vernalization requirement. Two allelic Bacterial Artificial Chromosome clones of the VRN1 locus from the two genotypes Veyo and Falster with contrasting vernalization requirements were identified, sequenced, and characterized. Analysis of the allelic sequences identified an 8.6-kb deletion in the first intron of the VRN1 gene in the Veyo genotype which has low vernalization requirement. This deletion was in a divergent recurrent selection experiment confirmed to be associated with genotypes with low vernalization requirement. The region surrounding the VRN1 locus in perennial ryegrass showed microcolinearity to the corresponding region on chromosome 3 in Oryza sativa with conserved gene order and orientation, while the micro-colinearity to the corresponding region in Triticum monococcum was less conserved. Our study indicates that the first intron of the VRN1 gene, and in particular the identified 8.6 kb region, is an important regulatory region for vernalization response in perennial ryegrass.
NUCLEAR FACTOR-Y, subunit B (NF-YB) comprises a multigene family in plants and has been shown to play important roles in growth, development, and response to environmental stress. In this study, five NF-YBs containing the full-length coding region were obtained from barley (Hordeum vulgare) through database sequence analysis, cloning, and sequencing. Sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis showed that HvNF-YB3 and HvNF-YB1 were clustered with NF-YB2 and NF-YB3 in Arabidopsis, suggesting these NF-YBs are evolutionary and functionally related. To test this hypothesis, HvNF-YB3 and HvNF-YB1 were overexpressed in Arabidopsis. Overexpression of HvNF-YB1 greatly promoted early flowering in Arabidopsis, supporting that HvNF-YB1may have conserved gene function in flowering time control as NF-YB2 and NF-YB3 in Arabidopsis. Overexpression of HvNF-YB3 in Arabidopsis had no effect on flowering time. An analysis of barley single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data, however, revealed a significant association between an HvNF-YB3 SNP and heading date. While it is unknown whether HvNF-YB3 directly contributes to heading date regulation, the results implied that HvNF-YB3 may also have conserved function in flowering time (heading date in barley) control. Further studies are needed to directly verify these gene functions in barley. Barley NF-YBs showed different expression patterns associated with tissue types, developmental stages, and response to different stress treatments, suggesting that barley NF-YBs may be involved in other physiological processes.
Variation in photoperiod response is a major factor determining plant development and the agronomic performance of crops. The genetic control of photoperiodic flowering has been elucidated in the model plant Arabidopsis, and many of the identified genes are structurally conserved in the grasses. In this study, HvCO1, the closest barley ortholog of the key photoperiod response gene CONSTANS in Arabidopsis, was over-expressed in the spring barley Golden Promise. Over-expression of HvCO1 accelerated time to flowering in long- and short-day conditions and caused up-regulation of HvFT1 mRNA under long-day conditions. However, the transgenic plants retained a response to photoperiod, suggesting the presence of photoperiod response factors acting downstream of HvCO1 transcription. Analysis of a population segregating for HvCO1 over-expression and natural genetic variation at Ppd-H1 demonstrated that Ppd-H1 acts downstream of HvCO1 transcription on HvFT1 expression and flowering. Furthermore, variation at Ppd-H1 did not affect diurnal expression of HvCO1 or HvCO2. Over-expression of HvCO1 increased transcription of the spring allele of Vrn-H1 in long- and short-day conditions, while genetic variation at Ppd-H1 did not affect Vrn-H1 expression. Over-expression of HvCO1 and natural genetic variation at Ppd-H1 accelerated inflorescence development and stem elongation. Thus, HvCO1 probably induces flowering by activating HvFT1 whilst Ppd-H1 regulates HvFT1 independently of HvCO1 mRNA, and all three genes also appear to have a strong effect in promoting inflorescence development.
Utilizing phytochemicals in treating inflammation is becoming a viable alternative to pharmacological treatment. We have reported that fermented barley extract (FBE) effectively suppresses oxidative stress in chronically ethanol-fed rats. Here we report that FBE suppressed acute increases in oxidative stress as a response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation. Rats supplemented with FBE for 10 d showed decreases in plasma interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-α by 25%, 34%, and 35% respectively after LPS challenge. Liver damage was significantly suppressed, as marked by a 44% decrease in plasma alanine aminotransferase. FBE supplementation sustained liver anti-oxidative enzymes, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase, at transcriptional and enzymatic levels, thus suppressing oxidative stress markers such as plasma nitric oxide and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine, by 42% and 23% respectively. We concluded that active compounds in FBE effectively inhibited the propagation of inflammation by suppressing oxidative stress.
Pathogenic and symbiotic bacteria rely on quorum sensing to coordinate the collective behavior during the interactions with their eukaryotic hosts. Many Gram-negative bacteria use N-acyl-homoserine lactones (AHLs) as signals in such communication. Here we show that plants have evolved means to perceive AHLs and that the length of acyl moiety and the functional group at the γ position specify the plant's response. Root treatment with the N-3-oxo-tetradecanoyl-L-homoserine lactone (oxo-C14-HSL) reinforced the systemic resistance to the obligate biotrophic fungi Golovinomyces orontii in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei in barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants. In addition, oxo-C14-HSL-treated Arabidopsis plants were more resistant toward the hemibiotrophic bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000. Oxo-C14-HSL promoted a stronger activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases AtMPK3 and AtMPK6 when challenged with flg22, followed by a higher expression of the defense-related transcription factors WRKY22 and WRKY29, as well as the PATHOGENESIS-RELATED1 gene. In contrast to wild-type Arabidopsis and mpk3 mutant, the mpk6 mutant is compromised in the AHL effect, suggesting that AtMPK6 is required for AHL-induced resistance. Results of this study show that AHLs commonly produced in the rhizosphere are crucial factors in plant pathology and could be an agronomic issue whose full impact has to be elucidated in future analyses.
Iron is essential for most living organisms and its availability often determines survival and proliferation. The Oryza sativa (rice) transcription factor IDEF1 plays a crucial role in regulating iron deficiency-induced genes involved in iron homeostasis. In the present report, we found characteristic histidine-asparagine repeat and proline-rich regions in IDEF1 and its homolog in Hordeum vulgare (barley), HvIDEF1. An immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography assay revealed that IDEF1 and HvIDEF1 bind to various divalent metals, including Fe(2+) and Ni(2+) . Recombinant IDEF1 protein expressed in Escherichia coli contained mainly Fe and Zn. This metal-binding activity of IDEF1 was almost abolished by deletion of the histidine-asparagine and proline-rich regions, but DNA-binding and trans-activation functions were not impaired by the deletion. Transgenic rice plants constitutively overexpressing IDEF1 without these metal-binding domains failed to cause pleiotropic effects conferred by overexpression of full-length IDEF1, including a low germination rate, impaired seedling growth, tolerance to iron deficiency in hydroponic culture, and enhanced expression of various iron deficiency-inducible genes. Impairment of the transcriptional regulation of IDEF1 by deletion of the metal-binding domains occurred primarily at an early stage of iron deficiency. These results suggest that the histidine-asparagine and proline-rich regions in rice IDEF1 directly bind to divalent metals and sense the cellular metal ion balance caused by changes in iron availability.
Senescence in plants involves massive nutrient relocation and age-related cell death. Characterization of the molecular components, such as transcription factors (TFs), involved in these processes is required to understand senescence. We found that HvNAC005 and HvNAC013 of the plant-specific NAC (NAM, ATAF1,2, CUC) TF family are up-regulated during senescence in barley (Hordeum vulgare). Both HvNAC005 and HvNAC013 bound the conserved NAC DNA target sequence. Computational and biophysical analyses showed that both proteins are intrinsically disordered in their large C-terminal domains, which are transcription regulatory domains (TRDs) in many NAC TFs. Using motif searches and interaction studies in yeast we identified an evolutionarily conserved sequence, the LP motif, in the TRD of HvNAC013. This motif was sufficient for transcriptional activity. In contrast, HvNAC005 did not function as a transcriptional activator suggesting that an involvement of HvNAC013 and HvNAC005 in senescence will be different. HvNAC013 interacted with barley radical-induced cell death 1 (RCD1) via the very C-terminal part of its TRD, outside of the region containing the LP motif. No significant secondary structure was induced in the HvNAC013 TRD upon interaction with RCD1. RCD1 also interacted with regions dominated by intrinsic disorder in TFs of the MYB and basic helix-loop-helix families. We propose that RCD1 is a regulatory protein capable of interacting with many different TFs by exploiting their intrinsic disorder. In addition, we present the first structural characterization of NAC C-terminal domains and relate intrinsic disorder and sequence motifs to activity and protein-protein interactions.
The NAC transcription factor family is involved in the regulation of traits in both monocots and dicots of high agronomic importance. Understanding the precise functions of the NAC genes can be of utmost importance for the improvement of cereal crop plants through plant breeding. For the cereal crop plant barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) only a few NAC genes have so far been investigated. Through searches in publicly available barley sequence databases we have obtained a list of 48 barley NAC genes (HvNACs) with 43 of them representing full-length coding sequences. Phylogenetic comparisons to Brachypodium, rice, and Arabidopsis NAC proteins indicate that the barley NAC family includes members from all of the eight NAC subfamilies, although by comparison to these species a number of HvNACs still remains to be identified. Using qRT-PCR we investigated the expression profiles of 46 HvNACs across eight barley tissues (young flag leaf, senescing flag leaf, young ear, old ear, milk grain, late dough grain, roots, and developing stem) and two hormone treatments (abscisic acid and methyl jasmonate). Comparisons of expression profiles of selected barley NAC genes with the published functions of closely related NAC genes from other plant species, including both monocots and dicots, suggest conserved functions in the areas of secondary cell wall biosynthesis, leaf senescence, root development, seed development, and hormone regulated stress responses.
Colonization of barley roots with the basidiomycete fungus Piriformospora indica (Sebacinales) induces systemic resistance against the biotrophic leaf pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (B. graminis). To identify genes involved in this mycorrhiza-induced systemic resistance, we compared the leaf transcriptome of P. indica-colonized and noncolonized barley plants 12, 24, and 96 h after challenge with a virulent race of B. graminis. The leaf pathogen induced specific gene sets (e.g., LRR receptor kinases and WRKY transcription factors) at 12 h postinoculation (hpi) (prepenetration phase) and vesicle-localized gene products 24 hpi (haustorium establishment). Metabolic analysis revealed a progressing shift of steady state contents of the intermediates glucose-1-phosphate, uridinediphosphate-glucose, and phosphoenolpyruvate 24 and 96 hpi, indicating that B. graminis shifts central carbohydrate metabolism in favor of sucrose biosynthesis. Both B. graminis and P. indica increased glutamine and alanine contents, whereas substrates for starch and nitrogen assimilation (adenosinediphosphate- glucose and oxoglutarate) decreased. In plants that were more B. graminis resistant due to P. indica root colonization, 22 transcripts, including those of pathogenesis-related genes and genes encoding heat-shock proteins, were differentially expressed ?twofold in leaves after B. graminis inoculation compared with non-mycorrhized plants. Detailed expression analysis revealed a faster induction after B. graminis inoculation between 8 and 16 hpi, suggesting that priming of these genes is an important mechanism of P. indica-induced systemic disease resistance.
The evaluation of both the genetic variation and the identification of salinity tolerant accessions of Tibetan annual wild barley (hereafter referred to as Tibetan barley) (Hordeum vulgare L. ssp. Spontaneum and H. vulgare L. ssp. agriocrithum) are essential for discovering and exploiting novel alleles involved in salinity tolerance. In this study, we examined tissue dry biomass and the Na(+) and K(+) contents of 188 Tibetan barley accessions in response to salt stress. We investigated the genetic variation of transcription factors HvCBF1, HvCBF3 and HvCBF4 within these accessions, conducting association analysis between these three genes and the respective genotypic salt tolerance. Salt stress significantly reduced shoot and root dry weight by 27.6% to 73.1% in the Tibetan barley lines. HvCBF1, HvCBF3 and HvCBF4 showed diverse sequence variation in amplicon as evident by the identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 3, 8 and 13 haplotypes, respectively. Furthermore, the decay of Linkage disequilibrium (LD) of chromosome 5 was 8.9 cM (r(2)<0.1). Marker bpb-4891 and haplotype 13 (Ps 610) of the HvCBF4 gene were significantly (P<0.05) and highly significantly (P<0.001) associated with salt tolerance. However, HvCBF1 and HvCBF3 genes were not associated with salinity tolerance. The accessions from haplotype 13 of the HvCBF4 gene showed high salinity tolerance, maintaining significantly lower Na(+)/K(+) ratios and higher dry weight. It is thus proposed that these Tibetan barley accessions could be of value for enhancing salinity tolerance in cultivated barley.
Stem rust (Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici; Pgt) is a devastating fungal disease of wheat and barley. Pgt race TTKSK (isolate Ug99) is a serious threat to these Triticeae grain crops because resistance is rare. In barley, the complex Rpg-TTKSK locus on chromosome 5H is presently the only known source of qualitative resistance to this aggressive Pgt race. Segregation for resistance observed on seedlings of the Q21861 × SM89010 (QSM) doubled-haploid (DH) population was found to be predominantly qualitative, with little of the remaining variance explained by loci other than Rpg-TTKSK. In contrast, analysis of adult QSM DH plants infected by field inoculum of Pgt race TTKSK in Njoro, Kenya, revealed several additional quantitative trait loci that contribute to resistance. To molecularly characterize these loci, Barley1 GeneChips were used to measure the expression of 22,792 genes in the QSM population after inoculation with Pgt race TTKSK or mock-inoculation. Comparison of expression Quantitative Trait Loci (eQTL) between treatments revealed an inoculation-dependent expression polymorphism implicating Actin depolymerizing factor3 (within the Rpg-TTKSK locus) as a candidate susceptibility gene. In parallel, we identified a chromosome 2H trans-eQTL hotspot that co-segregates with an enhancer of Rpg-TTKSK-mediated, adult plant resistance discovered through the Njoro field trials. Our genome-wide eQTL studies demonstrate that transcript accumulation of 25% of barley genes is altered following challenge by Pgt race TTKSK, but that few of these genes are regulated by the qualitative Rpg-TTKSK on chromosome 5H. It is instead the chromosome 2H trans-eQTL hotspot that orchestrates the largest inoculation-specific responses, where enhanced resistance is associated with transcriptional suppression of hundreds of genes scattered throughout the genome. Hence, the present study associates the early suppression of genes expressed in this host-pathogen interaction with enhancement of R-gene mediated resistance.
An assay was developed to study inflammation-related immune responses of food compounds on monocytes and macrophages derived from THP-1 cell line. First strategy focused on the effects after stimulation with either lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or Concanavalin A (ConA). Gene expression kinetics of inflammation-related cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10 and TNF-α), inflammation-related enzymes (iNOS and COX-2), and transcription factors (NF-κB, AP-1 and SP-1) were analyzed using RT-PCR. Time dependent cytokine secretion was investigated to study the inflammation-related responses at protein level. LPS stimulation induced inflammation-related cytokine, COX-2 and NF-κB genes of THP-1 monocytes and THP-1 macrophages with the maximum up-regulation at 3 and 6 h, respectively. These time points, were subsequently selected to investigate inflammation modulating activity of three well known immuno-modulating food-derived compounds; quercetin, citrus pectin and barley glucan. Co-stimulation of LPS with either quercetin, citrus pectin, or barley glucan in THP-1 monocytes and macrophages showed different immuno-modulatory activity of these compounds. Therefore, we propose that simultaneously exposing THP-1 cells to LPS and food compounds, combined with gene expression response analysis are a promising in vitro screening tool to select, in a limited time frame, food compounds for inflammation modulating effects.
The yeast one-hybrid (Y1H) system is a powerful tool for the identification and isolation of cDNAs of transcription factors using promoter segments or regulatory elements as baits. Here we propose an adaptation of the Y1H system for identification and cloning of transcription factors using Matchmaker (Clontech) Y2H cDNA libraries. The method is a modification of the standard one-hybrid screening protocol, utilising a mating step to introduce the library and reporter constructs into the same cell. This extends the compatibility of Matchmaker cDNA libraries from yeast two-hybrid screens to one-hybrid screens. Libraries were successfully prepared from wheat, barley and maize grain, spike, leaf and root tissues from plants subjected to several environmental stresses. Using this method, we have isolated more than 50 cDNAs encoding transcriptional factors from several different families.
An HD-Zip IV gene from wheat, TaGL9, was isolated using a Y1H screen of a cDNA library prepared from developing wheat grain. TaGL9 has an amino acid sequence distinct from other reported members of the HD-Zip IV family. The 3' untranslated region of TaGL9 was used as a probe to isolate a genomic clone of the TaGL9 homologue from a BAC library prepared from Triticum durum L. cv. Langdon. The full-length gene containing a 3-kb-long promoter region was designated TdGL9H1. Spatial and temporal activity of TdGL9H1 was examined using promoter-GUS fusion constructs in transgenic wheat, barley and rice plants. Whole-mount and histochemical GUS staining patterns revealed grain-specific expression of TdGL9H1. GUS expression was initially observed between 3 and 8 days after pollination (DAP) in embryos at the globular stage and adjacent to the embryo fraction of the endosperm. Expression was strongest in the outer cell layer of the embryo. In developed wheat and barley embryos, strong activity of the promoter was only detected in the main vascular bundle of the scutellum, which is known to be responsible for the uptake of nutrients from the endosperm during germination and the endosperm-dependent phase of seedling development. Furthermore, this pattern of GUS staining was observed in dry seeds several weeks after harvesting but quickly disappeared during imbibition. The promoter of this gene could be a useful tool for engineering of early seedling vigour and protecting the endosperm to embryo axis pathway from pathogens during grain desiccation and storage.
Seed germination is a complex multi-stage developmental process, and mainly accomplished through concerted activities of many gene products and biological pathways that are often subjected to strict developmental regulation. Gibberellins (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA) are two key phytohormones regulating seed germination and seedling growth. However, transcriptional regulatory networks underlying seed germination and its associated biological pathways are largely unknown. The studies examined transcriptomes of barley representing six distinct and well characterized germination stages and revealed that the transcriptional regulatory program underlying barley germination was composed of early, late, and post-germination phases. Each phase was accompanied with transcriptional up-regulation of distinct biological pathways. Cell wall synthesis and regulatory components including transcription factors, signaling and post-translational modification components were specifically and transiently up-regulated in early germination phase while histone families and many metabolic pathways were up-regulated in late germination phase. Photosynthesis and seed reserve mobilization pathways were up-regulated in post-germination phase. However, stress related pathways and seed storage proteins were suppressed through the entire course of germination. A set of genes were transiently up-regulated within three hours of imbibition, and might play roles in initiating biological pathways involved in seed germination. However, highly abundant transcripts in dry barley and Arabidopsis seeds were significantly conserved. Comparison with transcriptomes of barley aleurone in response to GA and ABA identified three sets of germination responsive genes that were regulated coordinately by GA, antagonistically by ABA, and coordinately by GA but antagonistically by ABA. Major CHO metabolism, cell wall degradation and protein degradation pathways were up-regulated by both GA and seed germination. Those genes and metabolic pathways are likely to be important parts of transcriptional regulatory networks underlying GA and ABA regulation of seed germination and seedling growth. The studies developed a model depicting transcriptional regulatory programs underlying barley germination and GA and ABA regulation of germination at gene, pathway and systems levels, and established a standard transcriptome reference for further integration with various -omics and biological data to illustrate biological networks underlying seed germination. The studies also generated a great amount of systems biological evidence for previously proposed hypotheses, and developed a number of new hypotheses on transcriptional regulation of seed germination for further experimental validation.
High intake of dietary fiber is claimed to protect against development of colorectal cancer. Barley is a rich source of dietary fiber, and possible immunomodulatory effects of barley polysaccharides might explain a potential protective effect. Dietary fiber was isolated by extraction and enzyme treatment. A mixed-linked β-glucan (WSM-TPX, 96.5% β-glucan, Mw 886 kDa), an arabinoxylan (WUM-BS-LA, 96.4% arabinoxylan, Mw 156 kDa), a mixed-linked β-glucan rich fraction containing 10% arabinoxylan (WSM-TP) and an arabinoxylan rich fraction containing 30% mixed-linked β-glucan (WUM-BS) showed no significant effect on IL-8 secretion and proliferation of two intestinal epithelial cell lines, Caco-2 and HT-29, and had no significant effect on the NF-κB activity in the monocytic cell line U937-3κB-LUC. Further enriched arabinoxylan fractions (WUM-BS-LA) from different barley varieties (Tyra, NK96300, SB94897 and CDCGainer) were less active than the mixed-linked β-glucan rich fractions (WSM-TP and WSM-TPX) in the complement-fixing test. The mixed-linked β-glucan rich fraction from NK96300 and CDCGainer showed similar activities as the positive control while mixed-linked β-glucan rich fractions from Tyra and SB94897 were less active. From these results it is concluded that the isolated high molecular weight mixed-linked β-glucans and arabinoxylans from barley show low immunological responses in selected in vitro test systems and thus possible anti-colon cancer effects of barley dietary fiber cannot be explained by our observations.
Barley Mildew resistance locus a (Mla) is a major determinant of immunity to the powdery mildew pathogen, Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. Alleles of Mla encode cytoplasmic- and membrane-localized coiled-coil, nucleotide binding site, leucine-rich repeat proteins that mediate resistance when complementary avirulence effectors (AVR(a)) are present in the pathogen. Presence of an appropriate AVR(a) protein triggers nuclear relocalization of MLA, in which MLA binds repressing host transcription factors. Timecourse expression profiles of plants harboring Mla1, Mla6, and Mla12 wild-type alleles versus paired loss-of-function mutants were compared to discover conserved transcriptional targets of MLA and downstream signaling cascades. Pathogen-dependent gene expression was equivalent or stronger in susceptible plants at 20 h after inoculation (HAI) and was attenuated at later timepoints, whereas resistant plants exhibited a time-dependent strengthening of the transcriptional response, increasing in both fold change and the number of genes differentially expressed. Deregulation at 20 HAI implicated 16 HAI as a crucial point in determining the future trajectory of this interaction and was interrogated by quantitative analysis. In total, 28 potential transcriptional targets of the MLA regulon were identified. These candidate targets possess a diverse set of predicted functions, suggesting that multiple pathways are required to mediate the hypersensitive reaction.
Phytohormones control growth and development of plants. Their effects on the expression of nuclear genes are well investigated. Although they influence plastid-related processes, it is largely unknown whether phytohormones exert their control also by regulating the expression of plastid/chloroplast genes. We have therefore studied the effects of methyl jasmonate (MeJA), gibberellic acid (GA(3)), an auxin (indole-3-acetic acid, IAA), a brassinosteroid (24-epibrassinolide, BR) and a cytokinin (6-benzyladenine) on transcription (run-on assays) and transcript levels (RNA blot hybridization) of chloroplast genes after incubation of detached barley leaves in hormone solutions. BR was the only hormone without significant influence on chloroplast transcription. It showed, however, a weak reducing effect on transcript accumulation. MeJA, IAA and GA(3) repressed both transcription and transcript accumulation, while BA counteracted the effects of the other hormones. Effects of phytohormones on transcription differed in several cases from their influence on transcript levels suggesting that hormones may act via separate signaling pathways on transcription and transcript accumulation in chloroplasts. We observed striking differences in the response of chloroplast gene expression on phytohormones between the lower (young cells) and the upper segments (oldest cells) of barley leaves. Quantity and quality of the hormone effects on chloroplast gene expression seem to depend therefore on the age and/or developmental stage of the cells. As the individual chloroplast genes responded in different ways on phytohormone treatment, gene- and transcript-specific factors should be involved. Our data suggest that phytohormones adjust gene expression in the nucleo-cytoplasmic compartment and in plastids/chloroplasts in response to internal and external cues.
Drought is one of the most severe environmental stress factors limiting crop yield especially when occurring during anthesis and seed filling. This terminal drought is characterized by an excess production of the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) which plays an important role during seed development and dormancy. All the genes putatively involved in ABA biosynthesis and inactivation in barley were identified and their expression studied during plant ontogeny under standard and drought-stress conditions to learn more about ABA homeostasis and the possible mode of cross-talk between source and sink tissues. Out of 41 genes related to ABA biosynthesis and inactivation 19 were found to be differentially regulated under drought stress in both flag leaves and developing seed during seed filling. Transcripts of plastid-located enzymes are regulated similarly in flag leaf and seed under terminal drought whereas transcripts of cytosolic enzymes are differentially regulated in the two tissues. Detailed information on the expression of defined gene family members is supplemented by measurements of ABA and its degradation and conjugation products, respectively. Under drought stress, flag leaves in particular contain high concentrations of both ABA and the ABA degradation products phaseic acid (PA) and diphaseic acid (DPA); whereas, in seeds, besides ABA, DPA was mainly found. The measurements also revealed a positive correlation between ABA level and starch content in developing seeds for the following reasons: (i) genes of the ABA controlled SnRK2.6 and RCAR/PP2C-mediated signal transduction pathway to the ABF transcription factor HvABI5 are activated in the developing grain under drought, (ii) novel ABA- and dehydration-responsive cis-elements have been found in the promoters of key genes of starch biosynthesis (HvSUS1, HvAGP-L1) and degradation (HvBAM1) and these transcripts/activity are prominently induced in developing seeds during 12 and 16 DAF, (iii) spraying of fluridone (an ABA biosynthesis inhibitor) to drought-stressed plants results in severely impaired starch content and thousand grain weight of mature seeds.
Modeling of a complex biological process can explain the results of experimental studies and help predict its characteristics. Among such processes is transcription in the presence of competing RNA polymerases. This process involves RNA polymerases collision followed by transcription termination. A mathematical and computer simulation model is developed to describe the competition of RNA polymerases during genes transcription on complementary DNA strands. E.g., in the barley Hordeum vulgare the polymerase competition occurs in the locus containing plastome genes psbA, rpl23, rpl2 and four bacterial type promoters. In heat shock experiments on isolated chloroplasts, a twofold decrease of psbA transcripts and even larger increase of rpl23-rpl2 transcripts were observed, which is well reproduced in the model. The model predictions are in good agreement with virtually all relevant experimental data (knockout, heat shock, chromatogram data, etc.). The model allows to hypothesize a mechanism of cell response to knockout and heat shock, as well as a mechanism of gene expression regulation in presence of RNA polymerase competition. The model is implemented for multiprocessor platforms with MPI and supported on Linux and MS Windows. The source code written in C++ is available under the GNU General Public License from the laboratory website. A user-friendly GUI version is also provided at http://lab6.iitp.ru/en/rivals. The developed model is in good agreement with virtually all relevant experimental data. The model can be applied to estimate intensities of binding of the holoenzyme and phage type RNA polymerase to their promoters using data on gene transcription levels, as well as to predict characteristics of RNA polymerases and the transcription process that are difficult to measure directly, e.g., the intensity (frequency) of holoenzyme binding to the promoter in correlation to its nucleotide composition and the type of σ-subunit, the amount of transcription initiation aborts, etc. The model can be used to make functional predictions, e.g., heat shock response in isolated chloroplasts and changes of gene transcription levels under knockout of different σ-subunits or RNA polymerases or due to gene expression regulation.
Plants employ two distinct strategies to obtain iron (Fe) from the soil. In Strategy I but not Strategy II plants, Fe limitation invokes ethylene production which regulates Fe deficiency responses. Oryza sativa (rice) is the only graminaceous plant described that possesses a Strategy I-like system for iron uptake as well as the classic Strategy II system. Ethylene production of rice roots was significantly increased when grown under Fe-depleted conditions. Moreover, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) treatment, a precursor of ethylene, conferred tolerance to Fe deficiency in rice by increasing internal Fe availability. Gene expression analysis of rice iron-regulated bHLH transcription factor OsIRO2, nicotianamine synthases 1 and 2 (NAS1 and NAS2), yellow-stripe like transporter 15 (YSL15) and iron-regulated transporter (IRT1) indicated that ethylene caused an increase in transcript abundance of both Fe (II) and Fe (III)-phytosiderophore uptake systems. RNA interference of OsIRO2 in transgenic rice showed that ethylene acted via this transcription factor to induce the expression of OsNAS1, OsNAS2, OsYSL15, and OsIRT1. By contrast, in Hordeum vulgare L. (barley), no ethylene production or ethylene-mediated effects of Fe response could be detected. In conclusion, Fe-limiting conditions increased ethylene production and signalling in rice, which is novel in Strategy II plant species.
Comparative transcriptomics are useful to determine the role of orthologous genes among Triticeae species. Thus they constitute an interesting tool to improve the use of wild relatives for crop breeding. Reverse transcription quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) is the most accurate measure of gene expression but efficient normalization is required. The choice and optimal number of reference genes must be experimentally determined and the primers optimized for cross-species amplification. Our goal was to test the utility of wheat-reference genes for qPCR normalization when species carrying the following genomes (A, B, D, R, H ( v ) and H ( ch )) are compared either simultaneously or in smaller subsets of samples. Wheat/barley/rye consensus primers outperformed wheat-specific ones which indicate that consensus primers should be considered for data normalization in comparative transcriptomics. All genes tested were stable but their ranking in terms of stability differed among subsets of samples. CDC (cell division control protein, AAA-superfamily of ATPases, Ta54227) and RLI (68 kDa protein HP68 similar to Arabidopsis thaliana RNase L inhibitor protein, Ta2776) were always among the three most stable genes. The optimal number of reference genes varied between 2 and 3 depending on the subset of samples and the method used (geNorm vs. coefficient of determination between sequential normalization factors). In any case a maximum number of three reference genes would provide adequate normalization independent of the subset of samples considered. This work constitutes a substantial advance towards comparative transcriptomics using qPCR since it provides useful primers/reference genes.
In the barley (Hordeum vulgare) Hooded (Kap) mutant, the duplication of a 305-bp intron sequence leads to the overexpression of the Barley knox3 (Bkn3) gene, resulting in the development of an extra flower in the spikelet. We used a one-hybrid screen to identify four proteins that bind the intron-located regulatory element (Kap intron-binding proteins). Three of these, Barley Ethylene Response Factor1 (BERF1), Barley Ethylene Insensitive Like1 (BEIL1), and Barley Growth Regulating Factor1 (BGRF1), were characterized and their in vitro DNA-binding capacities verified. Given the homology of BERF1 and BEIL1 to ethylene signaling proteins, we investigated if these factors might play a dual role in intron-mediated regulation and ethylene response. In transgenic rice (Oryza sativa), constitutive expression of the corresponding genes produced phenotypic alterations consistent with perturbations in ethylene levels and variations in the expression of a key gene of ethylene biosynthesis. In barley, ethylene treatment results in partial suppression of the Kap phenotype, accompanied by up-regulation of BERF1 and BEIL1 expression, followed by down-regulation of Bkn3 mRNA levels. In rice protoplasts, BEIL1 activates the expression of a reporter gene driven by the 305-bp intron element, while BERF1 can counteract this activation. Thus, BEIL1 and BERF1, likely in association with other Kap intron-binding proteins, should mediate the fine-tuning of Bkn3 expression by ethylene. We propose a hypothesis for the cross talk between the KNOX and ethylene pathways.
Fusarium head blight or scab caused by Fusarium graminearum is an important disease of wheat and barley. The pathogen not only causes severe yield losses but also contaminates infested grains with mycotoxins. In a previous study, we identified several pathogenicity mutants by random insertional mutagenesis. One of these mutants was disrupted in the ZIF1 gene, which encodes a b-ZIP transcription factor unique to filamentous ascomycetes. The Δzif1 mutant generated by gene replacement was significantly reduced in deoxynivalenol (DON) production and virulence on flowering wheat heads. It was defective in spreading from inoculated florets to the rachis and other spikelets. Deletion of the ZIF1 ortholog MoZIF1 in the rice blast fungus also caused reductions in virulence and in invasive growth. In addition, the Δzif1 mutant is defective in sexual reproduction. Although it had normal male fertility, when selfed or mated as the female in outcrosess, the Δzif1 mutant produced small, pigmented perithecia that were sterile (lack of asci and ascospores), suggesting a female-specific role for ZIF1 during fertilization or ascus development. Similar female-specific defects in sexual reproduction were observed in the ΔMozif1 mutant. When mated as the female, the ΔMozif1 perithecia failed to develop long necks and asci or ascospores. The ZIF1 gene is well conserved in filamentous ascomycetes, particularly in the b-ZIP domain, which is essential for its function. Expression of ZIF1 in Magnaporthe oryzae complemented the defects of the ΔMozif1 mutant. These results indicate that this b-ZIP transcription factor is functionally conserved in these two fungal pathogens for plant infection and sexual reproduction.
Transcription factors have been shown to control the activity of multiple stress response genes in a coordinated manner and therefore represent attractive targets for application in molecular plant breeding. We investigated the possibility of modulating the transcriptional regulation of drought and cold responses in the agriculturally important species, wheat and barley, with a view to increase drought and frost tolerance. Transgenic wheat and barley plants were generated showing constitutive (double 35S) and drought-inducible (maize Rab17) expression of the TaDREB2 and TaDREB3 transcription factors isolated from wheat grain. Transgenic populations with constitutive over-expression showed slower growth, delayed flowering and lower grain yields relative to the nontransgenic controls. However, both the TaDREB2 and TaDREB3 transgenic plants showed improved survival under severe drought conditions relative to nontransgenic controls. There were two components to the drought tolerance: real (activation of drought-stress-inducible genes) and 'seeming' (consumption of less water as a result of smaller size and/or slower growth of transgenics compared to controls). The undesired changes in plant development associated with the 'seeming' component of tolerance could be alleviated by using a drought-inducible promoter. In addition to drought tolerance, both TaDREB2 and TaDREB3 transgenic plants with constitutive over-expression of the transgene showed a significant improvement in frost tolerance. The increased expression of TaDREB2 and TaDREB3 lead to elevated expression in the transgenics of 10 other CBF/DREB genes and a large number of stress responsive LEA/COR/DHN genes known to be responsible for the protection of cell from damage and desiccation under stress.
In winter wheat (Triticum spp.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) varieties, long exposures to nonfreezing cold temperatures accelerate flowering time (vernalization) and improve freezing tolerance (cold acclimation). However, when plants initiate their reproductive development, freezing tolerance decreases, suggesting a connection between the two processes. To better understand this connection, we used two diploid wheat (Triticum monococcum) mutants, maintained vegetative phase (mvp), that carry deletions encompassing VRN-1, the major vernalization gene in temperate cereals. Homozygous mvp/mvp plants never flower, whereas plants carrying at least one functional VRN-1 copy (Mvp/-) exhibit normal flowering and high transcript levels of VRN-1 under long days. The Mvp/- plants showed reduced freezing tolerance and reduced transcript levels of several cold-induced C-REPEAT BINDING FACTOR transcription factors and COLD REGULATED genes (COR) relative to the mvp/mvp plants. Diploid wheat accessions with mutations in the VRN-1 promoter, resulting in high transcript levels under both long and short days, showed a significant down-regulation of COR14b under long days but not under short days. Taken together, these studies suggest that VRN-1 is required for the initiation of the regulatory cascade that down-regulates the cold acclimation pathway but that additional genes regulated by long days are required for the down-regulation of the COR genes. In addition, our results show that allelic variation in VRN-1 is sufficient to determine differences in freezing tolerance, suggesting that quantitative trait loci for freezing tolerance previously mapped on this chromosome region are likely a pleiotropic effect of VRN-1 rather than the effect of a separate closely linked locus (FROST RESISTANCE-1), as proposed in early freezing tolerance studies.
In temperate cereals, such as wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare), the transition to reproductive development can be accelerated by prolonged exposure to cold (vernalization). We examined the role of the grass-specific MADS box gene ODDSOC2 (OS2) in the vernalization response in cereals. The barley OS2 gene (HvOS2) is expressed in leaves and shoot apices but is repressed by vernalization. Vernalization represses OS2 independently of VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1) in a VRN1 deletion mutant of einkorn wheat (Triticum monococcum), but VRN1 is required to maintain down-regulation of OS2 in vernalized plants. Furthermore, barleys that carry active alleles of the VRN1 gene (HvVRN1) have reduced expression of HvOS2, suggesting that HvVRN1 down-regulates HvOS2 during development. Overexpression of HvOS2 delayed flowering and reduced spike, stem, and leaf length in transgenic barley plants. Plants overexpressing HvOS2 showed reduced expression of barley homologs of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) gene FLOWERING PROMOTING FACTOR1 (FPF1) and increased expression of RNase-S-like genes. FPF1 promotes floral development and enhances cell elongation, so down-regulation of FPF1-like genes might explain the phenotypes of HvOS2 overexpression lines. We present an extended model of the genetic pathways controlling vernalization-induced flowering in cereals, which describes the regulatory relationships between VRN1, OS2, and FPF1-like genes. Overall, these findings highlight differences and similarities between the vernalization responses of temperate cereals and the model plant Arabidopsis.
Epigenetic phenomena have been associated with the regulation of active and silent chromatin states achieved by modifications of chromatin structure through DNA methylation, and histone post-translational modifications. The latter is accomplished, in part, through the action of PcG (Polycomb group) protein complexes which methylate nucleosomal histone tails at specific sites, ultimately leading to chromatin compaction and gene silencing. Different PcG complex variants operating during different developmental stages have been described in plants. In particular, the so-called FIE/MEA/FIS2 complex governs the expression of genes important in embryo and endosperm development in Arabidopsis. In our effort to understand the epigenetic mechanisms regulating seed development in barley (Hordeum vulgare), an agronomically important monocot plant cultivated for its endosperm, we set out to characterize the genes encoding barley PcG proteins. Four barley PcG gene homologues, named HvFIE, HvE(Z), HvSu(z)12a, and HvSu(z)12b were identified and structurally and phylogenetically characterized. The corresponding genes HvFIE, HvE(Z), HvSu(z)12a, and HvSu(z)12b were mapped onto barley chromosomes 7H, 4H, 2H and 5H, respectively. Expression analysis of the PcG genes revealed significant differences in gene expression among tissues and seed developmental stages and between barley cultivars with varying seed size. Furthermore, HvFIE and HvE(Z) gene expression was responsive to the abiotic stress-related hormone abscisic acid (ABA) known to be involved in seed maturation, dormancy and germination. This study reports the first characterization of the PcG homologues, HvFIE, HvE(Z), HvSu(z)12a and HvSu(z)12b in barley. All genes co-localized with known chromosomal regions responsible for malting quality related traits, suggesting that they might be used for developing molecular markers to be applied in marker assisted selection. The PcG differential expression pattern in different tissues and seed developmental stages as well as in two barley cultivars with different seed size is suggestive of a role for these genes in barley seed development. HvFIE and HvE(Z) were also found to be induced by the plant hormone ABA implying an association with ABA-mediated processes during seed development, germination and stress response.
Association mapping is receiving considerable attention in plant genetics for its potential to fine map quantitative trait loci (QTL), validate candidate genes, and identify alleles of interest. In the present study association mapping in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is investigated by associating DNA polymorphisms with variation in grain quality traits, plant height, and flowering time to gain further understanding of gene functions involved in the control of these traits. We focused on the four loci BLZ1, BLZ2, BPBF and HvGAMYB that play a role in the regulation of B-hordein expression, the major fraction of the barley storage protein. The association was tested in a collection of 224 spring barley accessions using a two-stage mixed model approach. Within the sequenced fragments of four candidate genes we observed different levels of nucleotide diversity. The effect of selection on the candidate genes was tested by Tajima's D which revealed significant values for BLZ1, BLZ2, and BPBF in the subset of two-rowed barleys. Pair-wise LD estimates between the detected SNPs within each candidate gene revealed different intra-genic linkage patterns. On the basis of a more extensive examination of genomic regions surrounding the four candidate genes we found a sharp decrease of LD (r2<0.2 within 1 cM) in all but one flanking regions.Significant marker-trait associations between SNP sites within BLZ1 and flowering time, BPBF and crude protein content and BPBF and starch content were detected. Most haplotypes occurred at frequencies <0.05 and therefore were rejected from the association analysis. Based on haplotype information, BPBF was associated to crude protein content and starch content, BLZ2 showed association to thousand-grain weight and BLZ1 was found to be associated with flowering time and plant height. Differences in nucleotide diversity and LD pattern within the candidate genes BLZ1, BLZ2, BPBF, and HvGAMYB reflect the impact of selection on the nucleotide sequence of the four candidate loci.Despite significant associations, the analysed candidate genes only explained a minor part of the total genetic variation although they are known to be important factors influencing the expression of seed quality traits. Therefore, we assume that grain quality as well as plant height and flowering time are influenced by many factors each contributing a small part to the expression of the phenotype. A genome-wide association analysis could provide a more comprehensive picture of loci involved in the regulation of grain quality, thousand grain weight and the other agronomic traits that were analyzed in this study. However, despite available high-throughput genotyping arrays the marker density along the barely genome is still insufficient to cover all associations in a whole genome scan. Therefore, the candidate gene-based approach will further play an important role in barley association studies.
The cleistogamous flower sheds its pollen before opening, forcing plants with this habit to be almost entirely autogamous. Cleistogamy also provides a means of escape from cereal head blight infection and minimizes pollen-mediated gene flow. The lodicule in cleistogamous barley is atrophied. We have isolated cleistogamy 1 (Cly1) by positional cloning and show that it encodes a transcription factor containing two AP2 domains and a putative microRNA miR172 targeting site, which is an ortholog of Arabidopsis thaliana AP2. The expression of Cly1 was concentrated within the lodicule primordia. We established a perfect association between a synonymous nucleotide substitution at the miR172 targeting site and cleistogamy. Cleavage of mRNA directed by miR172 was detectable only in a noncleistogamous background. We conclude that the miR172-derived down-regulation of Cly1 promotes the development of the lodicules, thereby ensuring noncleistogamy, although the single nucleotide change at the miR172 targeting site results in the failure of the lodicules to develop properly, producing the cleistogamous phenotype.
Grain protein content (GPC) is a key quality factor for malting and brewing process. In wheat, a QTL explaining a large part of GPC variation was identified, which co-localizes with a gene encoding a NAC transcription factor (TtNAM-B1). NAC transcription factors influence GPC by their role in the regulation of senescence and in protein remobilization. An orthologous gene was discovered on barley chromosome 6H where a GPC QTL was mapped. In this study, we identify allelic variation of the NAM-1 gene for three species of Hordeum representing wild and cultivated barley and we investigate the possible link with GPC. Three haplotypes were identified, one corresponds to the sequences of 11 European varieties representing H. vulgare, one corresponds to the sequence found in H. spontaneum and one represents the sequence of H. bulbosum. Three SNPs were identified between H. spontaneum sequence and H. vulgare sequence. One of the H. bulbosum polymorphisms leads to the introduction of a stop codon and a non-functional protein. Differences in GPC between the 11 varieties were found but no polymorphism in the NAM-1 gene was observed, suggesting that differences in expression of the HvNAM-1 gene or other genes should play a role in GPC regulation. Nevertheless based on published values for GPC of H. bulbosum and H. spontaneum compared to GPC measured here in H. vulgare, the non-functional protein is associated with the lower GPC, suggesting that loss of functionality of the NAM-1 gene in Hordeum is related to lower GPC. Moreover H. spontaneum GPC seems to be higher than H. vulgare GPC, suggesting also that allelic variation of the functional NAM-1 gene could be associated with GPC variation within the genus Hordeum.
Three spikelets are formed at each rachis node of the cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare ssp. vulgare) spike. In two-rowed barley, the central one is fertile and the two lateral ones are sterile, whereas in the six-rowed type, all three are fertile. This characteristic is determined by the allelic constitution at the six-rowed spike 1 (vrs1) locus on the long arm of chromosome 2H, with the recessive allele (vrs1) being responsible for the six-rowed phenotype. The Vrs1 (HvHox1) gene encodes a homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) transcription factor. Here, we show that the Vrs1 gene evolved in the Poaceae via a duplication, with a second copy of the gene, HvHox2, present on the short arm of chromosome 2H. Micro-collinearity and polypeptide sequences were both well conserved between HvHox2 and its Poaceae orthologs, but Vrs1 is unique to the barley tribe. The Vrs1 gene product lacks a motif which is conserved among the HvHox2 orthologs. A phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that Vrs1 and HvHox2 must have diverged after the separation of Brachypodium distachyon from the Pooideae and suggests that Vrs1 arose following the duplication of HvHox2, and acquired its new function during the evolution of the barley tribe. HvHox2 was expressed in all organs examined but Vrs1 was predominantly expressed in immature inflorescence.
Gene expression microarrays allow rapid and easy quantification of transcript accumulation for almost transcripts present in a genome. This technology has been utilized for diverse investigations from studying gene regulation in response to genetic or environmental fluctuation to global expression QTL (eQTL) analyses of natural variation. Typical analysis techniques focus on responses of individual genes in isolation of other genes. However, emerging evidence indicates that genes are organized into regulons, i.e., they respond as groups due to individual transcription factors binding multiple promoters, creating what is commonly called a network. We have developed a set of statistical approaches that allow researchers to test specific network hypothesis using a priori-defined gene networks. When applied to Arabidopsis thaliana this approach has been able to identify natural genetic variation that controls networks. In this chapter we describe approaches to develop and test specific network hypothesis utilizing natural genetic variation. This approach can be expanded to facilitate direct tests of the relationship between phenotypic trait and transcript genetic architecture. Finally, the use of a priori network definitions can be applied to any microarray experiment to directly conduct hypothesis testing at a genomics level.
The APETALA2-like genes form a large multi-gene family of transcription factors which play an important role during the plant life cycle, being key regulators of many developmental processes. Many studies in Arabidopsis have revealed that the APETALA2 (AP2) gene is implicated in the establishment of floral meristem and floral organ identity as well as temporal and spatial regulation of flower homeotic gene expression. In this work, we have cloned and characterised the AP2-like gene from accessions of Hordeum chilense and Hordeum vulgare, wild and domesticated barley, respectively, and compared with other AP2 homoeologous genes, including the Q gene in wheat. The Hordeum AP2-like genes contain two plant-specific DNA binding motifs called AP2 domains, as does the Q gene of wheat. We confirm that the H. chilense AP2-like gene is located on chromosome 5Hch. Patterns of expression of the AP2-like genes were examined in floral organs and other tissues in barley, wheat and in tritordeum amphiploids (barley x wheat hybrids). In tritordeum amphiploids, the level of transcription of the barley AP2-like gene was lower than in its barley parental and the chromosome substitutions 1D/1Hch and 2D/2Hch were seen to modify AP2 gene expression levels. The results are of interest in order to understand the role of the AP2-like gene in the spike morphology of barley and wheat, and to understand the regulation of this gene in the amphiploids obtained from barley-wheat crossing. This information may have application in cereal breeding programs to up- or down-regulate the expression of AP2-like genes in order to modify spike characteristics and to obtain free-threshing plants.
Barley-derived beta-glucan, a linear mixed-linkage beta-glucan composed of 1,3- and 1,4-beta-D-glucopyranose polymers, binds to dectin-1. However, whether it can trigger signal transduction via dectin-1 remains unclear. In this study, we used a reporter gene assay to determine whether barley-derived beta-d-glucan can activate NF-kappaB via dectin-1-mediated signaling when dectin-1 is cotransfected with Syk, CARD9, and Bcl10 in 293T cells. We found that barley-derived beta-D-glucan can activate NF-kappaB leading to cytokine production when dectin-1, Syk, CARD9, and Bcl10 are coexpressed in the cells. We also found that barley-derived beta-D-glucan can induce the phosphorylation of Syk and production of IL-6 in thioglycolate-elicited peritoneal macrophages. These results indicated that the immunostimulatory effects of barley-derived beta-d-glucan might be exerted, at least in part, via dectin-1.
Prolonged exposure to low temperatures (vernalization) accelerates the transition to reproductive growth in many plant species, including the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana and the economically important cereal crops, wheat and barley. Vernalization-induced flowering is an epigenetic phenomenon. In Arabidopsis, stable down-regulation of FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC) by vernalization is associated with changes in histone modifications at FLC chromatin. In cereals, the vernalization response is mediated by stable induction of the floral promoter VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1), which initiates reproductive development at the shoot apex. We show that in barley (Hordeum vulgare), repression of HvVRN1 before vernalization is associated with high levels of histone 3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) at HvVRN1 chromatin. Vernalization caused increased levels of histone 3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) and a loss of H3K27me3 at HvVRN1, suggesting that vernalization promotes an active chromatin state at VRN1. Levels of these histone modifications at 2 other flowering-time genes, VERNALIZATION2 and FLOWERING LOCUS T, were not altered by vernalization. Our study suggests that maintenance of an active chromatin state at VRN1 is likely to be the basis for epigenetic memory of vernalization in cereals. Thus, regulation of chromatin state is a feature of epigenetic memory of vernalization in Arabidopsis and the cereals; however, whereas vernalization-induced flowering in Arabidopsis is mediated by epigenetic regulation of the floral repressor FLC, this phenomenon in cereals is mediated by epigenetic regulation of the floral activator, VRN1.
Activity of the VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1) gene is required for flowering in temperate cereals such as wheat and barley. In varieties that require prolonged exposure to cold to flower (vernalization), VRN1 is expressed at low levels and is induced by vernalization to trigger flowering. In other varieties, deletions or insertions in the first intron of the VRN1 gene are associated with increased VRN1 expression in the absence of cold treatment, reducing or eliminating the requirement for vernalization. To characterize natural variation in VRN1, the first intron of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) VRN1 gene (HvVRN1) was assayed for deletions or insertions in a collection of 1,000 barleys from diverse geographical regions. Ten alleles of HvVRN1 containing deletions or insertions in the first intron were identified, including three alleles that have not been described previously. Different HvVRN1 alleles were associated with differing levels of HvVRN1 expression in non-vernalized plants and with different flowering behaviour. Using overlapping deletions, we delineated regions in the HvVRN1 first intron that are associated with low levels of HvVRN1 expression in non-vernalized plants. Deletion of these intronic regions does not prevent induction of HvVRN1 by cold or the maintenance of increased HvVRN1 expression following cold treatment. We suggest that regions within the first intron of HvVRN1 are required to maintain low levels of HvVRN1 expression prior to winter but act independently of the regulatory mechanisms that mediate induction of HvVRN1 by cold during winter.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) grains synthesize starch as the main storage compound. However, some starch is degraded already during caryopsis development. We studied temporal and spatial expression patterns of genes coding for enzymes of starch synthesis and degradation. These profiles coupled with measurements of selected enzyme activities and metabolites have allowed us to propose a role for starch degradation in maternal and filial tissues of developing grains. Early maternal pericarp functions as a major short-term starch storage tissue, possibly ensuring sink strength of the young caryopsis. Gene expression patterns and enzyme activities suggest two different pathways for starch degradation in maternal tissues. One pathway possibly occurs via alpha-amylases 1 and 4 and beta-amylase 1 in pericarp, nucellus, and nucellar projection, tissues that undergo programmed cell death. Another pathway is deducted for living pericarp and chlorenchyma cells, where transient starch breakdown correlates with expression of chloroplast-localized beta-amylases 5, 6, and 7, glucan, water dikinase 1, phosphoglucan, water dikinase, isoamylase 3, and disproportionating enzyme. The suite of genes involved in starch synthesis in filial starchy endosperm is much more complex than in pericarp and involves several endosperm-specific genes. Transient starch turnover occurs in transfer cells, ensuring the maintenance of sink strength in filial tissues and the reallocation of sugars into more proximal regions of the starchy endosperm. Starch is temporally accumulated also in aleurone cells, where it is degraded during the seed filling period, to be replaced by storage proteins and lipids.
The balance of gibberellins [gibberellic acid (GA)] and abscisic acid (ABA) is a determining factor during transition of embryogenesis and seed germination. Recently, we showed that 14-3-3 proteins are important in ABA signalling in barley aleurone cells. Using 14-3-3 RNAi constructs in the barley aleurone transient expression system, we demonstrate here that silencing of each 14-3-3 isoform suppresses GA induction of the alpha-amylase gene. 14-3-3 Proteins interact with ABA-responsive element (ABRE) binding factors HvABF1, 2 and 3, and here we show that these transcription factors also interact with the ABA-responsive kinase PKABA1, a kinase that mediates cross-talk between the GA and ABA pathway. ABF1 and ABF2 have a function in both signalling pathways as: (1) ectopic expression of wild-type ABF1 and mutant ABF2, lacking the 14-3-3 interaction domain, transactivates the ABA inducible HVA1 gene; and (2) GA induction of the alpha-amylase gene is repressed by ectopic expression of wild-type ABF1 and 2. Mutant ABF1 and 2 were still effective repressors of GA signalling. In summary, our data provide evidence that 14-3-3 proteins and members of the ABF transcription factor family have a regulatory function in the GA pathway and suggest that PKABA1 and ABF transcription factors are cross-talk intermediates in ABA and GA signalling.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seed development is a highly regulated process with fine-tuned interaction of various tissues controlling distinct physiological events during prestorage, storage and dessication phase. As potential regulators involved within this process we studied 172 transcription factors and 204 kinases for their expression behaviour and anchored a subset of them to the barley linkage map to promote marker-assisted studies on barley grains. By a hierachical clustering of the expression profiles of 376 potential regulatory genes expressed in 37 different tissues, we found 50 regulators preferentially expressed in one of the three grain tissue fractions pericarp, endosperm and embryo during seed development. In addition, 27 regulators found to be expressed during both seed development and germination and 32 additional regulators are characteristically expressed in multiple tissues undergoing cell differentiation events during barley plant ontogeny. Another 96 regulators were, beside in the developing seed, ubiquitously expressed among all tissues of germinating seedlings as well as in reproductive tissues. SNP-marker development for those regulators resulted in anchoring 61 markers on the genetic linkage map of barley and the chromosomal assignment of another 12 loci by using wheat-barley addition lines. The SNP frequency ranged from 0.5 to 1.0 SNP/kb in the parents of the various mapping populations and was 2.3 SNP/kb over all eight lines tested. Exploration of macrosynteny to rice revealed that the chromosomal orders of the mapped putative regulatory factors were predominantly conserved during evolution. We identified expression patterns of major transcription factors and signaling related genes expressed during barley ontogeny and further assigned possible functions based on likely orthologs functionally well characterized in model plant species. The combined linkage map and reference expression map of regulators defined in the present study offers the possibility of further directed research of the functional role of regulators during seed development in barley.
A gene encoding Hordeum vulgare dehydration-responsive element binding protein 1 (HvDREB1), a member of the A-2 subgroup of the DREB subfamily, was isolated from barley seedlings. A subcellular localization assay revealed accumulation of HvDREB1 protein in the nucleus. As a trans-acting factor, HvDREB1 was able to bind to DRE/CRT elements and transactivate reporter gene expression in yeast cells. A study of various deletion mutants of HvDREB1 proteins indicated that the transactivation activity was localized to the N-terminal region. Expression of the HvDREB1 gene in barley leaves was significantly induced by salt, drought, and low-temperature. In contrast to most A-2 subgroup members in Arabidopsis thaliana, HvDREB1 also responded to exogenous ABA. Overexpression of HvDREB1 activated a downstream gene, RD29A, under normal growth conditions and led to increased tolerance to salt stress in Arabidopsis plants. These results suggest that HvDREB1 produces a DRE-/CRT-binding transcription factor that may have an important role in improving salt tolerance in plants.
SPINDLY (SPY) is an important regulator of plant development, and consists of an N-half tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domain containing 10 TPR motifs and a C-half catalytic domain, similar to O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) of animals. The best characterised role of SPY is a negative regulator of GA signalling, and all known spy alleles have been isolated based on increased GA response. Of the eight alleles that directly affect the TPR domain, all alter TPRs 6, 8 and/or 9. To test the hypothesis that a subset of TPRs, including 6, 8 and 9, are both essential and sufficient for the regulation of GA response, we overexpressed the full-length barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) SPY protein (HvSPY) and several deletion mutants in barley aleurone cells and in Arabidopsis wild type (WT) and spy-4 plants. Transient assays in barley aleurone cells, that also express endogenous HvSPY, demonstrated that introduced HvSPY and HvTPR inhibited GA(3)-induced alpha-amylase expression. With the exception of HvSPYDelta1-5, the other deletion proteins were partially active in the barley assay, including HvSPYDelta6-9 which lacks TPRs 6, 8 and 9. In Arabidopsis, analysis of seed germination under a range of conditions revealed that 35S:HvSPY increased seed dormancy. Hvspy-2, which lacks parts of the eighth and ninth TPRs, was able to partially complement all aspects of the spy-4 phenotype. In the presence of AtSPY, 35S:HvTPR caused some phenotypes consistent with a decrease in GA signalling, including increased seed sensitivity to paclobutrazol and delayed flowering. These plants also possessed distorted leaf morphology and altered epidermal cell shape. Thus, despite genetic analysis demonstrating that TPRs 6, 8 and 9 are required for regulation of GA signalling, our results suggest that these TPRs are neither absolutely essential nor sufficient for SPY activity.
Transfer cells have specializations that facilitate the transport of solutes across plant exchange surfaces. ZmMRP-1 is a maize (Zea mays) endosperm transfer cell-specific transcriptional activator that plays a central role in the regulatory pathways controlling transfer cell differentiation and function. The present work investigates the signals controlling the expression of ZmMRP-1 through the production of transgenic lines of maize, Arabidopsis, tobacco and barley containing ZmMRP-1promoter:GUS reporter constructs. The GUS signal predominantly appeared in regions of active transport between source and sink tissues, including nematode-induced feeding structures and at sites of vascular connection between developing organs and the main plant vasculature. In those cases, promoter induction was associated with the initial developmental stages of transport structures. Significantly, transfer cells also differentiated in these regions suggesting that, independent of species, location or morphological features, transfer cells might differentiate in a similar way under the influence of conserved induction signals. In planta and yeast experiments showed that the promoter activity is modulated by carbohydrates, glucose being the most effective inducer.
Butyrate was shown to have a preventive effect on colon cancer in vivo. Germinated barley foodstuff (GBF) was in a prebiotic stage and had the potency to attenuate mucosal inflammation and to increase fecal butyrate production in colitis. This study aimed to determine whether the GBF treatment in a colon cancer model had the potency to suppress colon cancer. After a pre-feeding of either a control or a GBF diet for two weeks, male F344 rats received subcutaneous injections of azoxymethane twice, at a dose level of 15 mg/kg body weight. The injections were administered once a week for 2 weeks (n=10/group). Four weeks after that, the number of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) and heat shock protein (HSP) 25-positive cells in colonic mucosa were observed histologically. The mRNA level of slc5a8 was evaluated by in situ hybridization. Colonic mucosal beta-catenin was determined by Western blotting. Cecal short chain fatty acids, beta-glucosidase and beta-glucuronidase were also determined. The results showed that GBF treatment significantly decreased the number of ACF and beta-catenin formations in the colonic mucosa. GBF significantly increased the production of slc5a8, which is a tumor suppressor gene, as well as the cecal butyrate content and beta-glucosidase activity. beta-glucuronidase activity remained at the same level in GBF and control subjects. The number of HSP25-positive cells in GBF was higher than that in the control group, although it did not reach significant difference. In conclusion, GBF showed anti-tumorigenicity in the AOM rat model. Changes in the colonic environment featured through the increase of butyrate production were found. Although a more detailed study is required, this study showed the promising anti-neoplastic effects of prebiotic treatment.
Nucellar projection (NP) and endosperm transfer cells (ETC) are essential tissues in growing barley (Hordeum vulgare) grains, responsible for nutrient transfer from maternal to filial tissues, endosperm/embryo nutrition, and grain development. A laser microdissection pressure catapulting-based transcriptome analysis was established to study NP and ETC separately using a barley 12K macroarray. A major challenge was to isolate high-quality mRNA from preembedded, fixed tissue while maintaining tissue integrity. We show that probes generated from fixed and embedded tissue sections represent largely the transcriptome (>70%) of nonchemically treated and nonamplified references. In NP, the top-down gradient of cellular differentiation is reflected by the expression of C3HC4-type ubiquitin ligases and different histone genes, cell wall biosynthesis and expansin/extensin genes, as well as genes involved in programmed cell death-related proteolysis coupled to nitrogen remobilization, indicating distinct areas simultaneously undergoing mitosis, cell elongation, and disintegration. Activated gene expression related to gibberellin synthesis and function suggests a regulatory role for gibberellins in establishment of the differentiation gradient. Up-regulation of plasmalemma-intrinsic protein and tonoplast-intrinsic protein genes indicates involvement in nutrient transfer and/or unloading. In ETC, AP2/EREBP-like transcription factors and ethylene functions are transcriptionally activated, a response possibly coupled to activated defense mechanisms. Transcriptional activation of nucleotide sugar metabolism may be attributed to ascorbate synthesis and/or cell wall biosynthesis. These processes are potentially controlled by trehalose-6-P synthase/phosphatase, as suggested by expression of their respective genes. Up-regulation of amino acid permeases in ETC indicates important roles in active nutrient uptake from the apoplastic space into the endosperm.
The BARE retrotransposon family comprises more than 10(4) copies in the barley (Hordeum vulgare) genome. The element is bounded by long terminal repeats (LTRs, 1829 bp) containing promoters and RNA-processing motifs required for retrotransposon replication. Members of the BARE1 subfamily are transcribed, translated, and form virus-like particles. Very similar retrotransposons are expressed as RNA and protein in other cereals and grasses. The BARE2 subfamily is, however, non-autonomous because it cannot produce the GAG capsid protein. The pattern of plant development implies that inheritance of integrated copies should critically depend, in the first instance, on cell-specific and tissue-specific expression patterns. We examined transcription of BARE within different barley tissues and analyzed the promoter function of the BARE LTR. The two promoters of the LTR vary independently in activity by tissue. In embryos TATA1 was almost inactive, whereas transcription in callus appears to be less tightly regulated than in other tissues. Deletion analyses of the LTR uncovered strong positive and negative regulatory elements. The promoters produce multiple groups of transcripts that are distinct by their start and stop points, by their sequences, and by whether they are polyadenylated. Some of these groups do not share the common end structures needed for template switching during replication. Only about 15% of BARE transcripts are polyadenylated. The data suggest that distinct subfamilies of transcripts may play independent roles in providing the proteins and replication templates for the BARE retrotransposon life cycle.
The transcription factor GAMYB is involved in gibberellin signalling in cereal aleurone cells and in plant developmental processes. Nucleotide diversity of HvGAMYB and TaGAMYB was investigated in 155 barley (Hordeum vulgare) and 42 wheat (Triticum aestivum) accessions, respectively. Polymorphisms defined 18 haplotypes in the barley collection and 1, 7 and 3 haplotypes for the A, B, and D genomes of wheat, respectively. We found that (1) Hv- and TaGAMYB genes have identical structures. (2) Both genes show a high level of nucleotide identity (>95%) in the coding sequences and the distribution of polymorphisms is similar in both collections. At the protein level the functional domain is identical in both species. (3) GAMYB genes map to a syntenic position on chromosome 3. GAMYB genes are different in both collections with respect to the Tajima D statistic and linkage disequilibrium (LD). A moderate level of LD was observed in the barley collection. In wheat, LD is absolute between polymorphic sites, mostly located in the first intron, while it decays within the gene. Differences in Tajima D values might be due to a lower selection pressure on HvGAMYB, compared to its wheat orthologue. Altogether our results provide evidence that there have been only few evolutionary changes in Hv- and TaGAMYB. This confirms the close relationship between these species and also highlights the functional importance of this transcription factor.
WRKY proteins belong to the WRKY-GCM1 superfamily of zinc finger transcription factors that have been subject to a large plant-specific diversification. For the cereal crop barley (Hordeum vulgare), three different WRKY proteins have been characterized so far as regulators in sucrose signaling, pathogen defense, and in response to cold and drought. However, their phylogenetic relationship remained unresolved. In this study, we used available sequence information to identify a minimum number of 45 barley WRKY transcription factor (HvWRKY) genes. According to their structural features, the HvWRKY factors were classified into the previously defined polyphyletic WRKY subgroups 1 to 3. Furthermore, we could assign putative orthologs of the HvWRKY proteins in Arabidopsis and rice. While in most cases clades of orthologous proteins were formed within each group or subgroup, other clades were composed of paralogous proteins for the grasses and Arabidopsis only, which is indicative of specific gene radiation events. To gain insight into their putative functions, we examined expression profiles of WRKY genes from publicly available microarray data resources and found group specific expression patterns. While putative orthologs of the HvWRKY transcription factors have been inferred from phylogenetic sequence analysis, we performed a comparative expression analysis of WRKY genes in Arabidopsis and barley. Indeed, highly correlative expression profiles were found between some of the putative orthologs. HvWRKY genes have not only undergone radiation in monocot or dicot species, but exhibit evolutionary traits specific to grasses. HvWRKY proteins exhibited not only sequence similarities between orthologs with Arabidopsis, but also relatedness in their expression patterns. This correlative expression is indicative for a putative conserved function of related WRKY proteins in monocot and dicot species.
The avirulence gene ACE1 from the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea encodes a polyketide synthase (PKS) fused to a nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) probably involved in the biosynthesis of a secondary metabolite recognized by Pi33 resistant rice (Oryza sativa) cultivars. Analysis of the M. grisea genome revealed that ACE1 is located in a cluster of 15 genes, of which 14 are potentially involved in secondary metabolism as they encode enzymes such as a second PKS-NRPS (SYN2), two enoyl reductases (RAP1 and RAP2) and a putative Zn(II)(2)Cys(6) transcription factor (BC2). These 15 genes are specifically expressed during penetration into the host plant, defining an infection-specific gene cluster. A pORF3-GFP transcriptional fusion showed that the highly expressed ORF3 gene from the ACE1 cluster is only expressed in appressoria, as is ACE1. Phenotypic analysis of deletion or disruption mutants of SYN2 and RAP2 showed that they are not required for avirulence in Pi33 rice cultivars, unlike ACE1. Inactivation of other genes was unsuccessful because targeted gene replacement and disruption were inefficient at this locus. Overall, the ACE1 gene cluster displays an infection-specific expression pattern restricted to the penetration stage which is probably controlled at the transcriptional level and reflects regulatory networks specific to early stages of infection.
Magnaporthe grisea is a model fungus for studying fungus-plant interactions. Two mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase genes, PMK1 and MPS1, have been implicated in regulating plant infection processes in M. grisea. However, transcription factors activated by these MAP kinases are not well studied. In this study we functionally characterized the MIG1 gene that encodes a MADS-box transcription factor homologous to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rlm1. In yeast two-hybrid assays, MIG1 interacts with MPS1, suggesting that MIG1 may function downstream from the MPS1 pathway. The mig1 deletion mutant had a normal growth rate and formed melanized appressoria, but it was nonpathogenic and failed to infect rice leaves through wounds. Appressoria formed by the mig1 mutant developed penetration pegs and primary infectious hyphae, but further differentiation of the secondary infectious hyphae inside live plant cells was blocked. However, the mig1 mutant formed infectious hypha-like structures in heat-killed plant cells or cellophane membranes. In transformants expressing the MIG1-GFP fusion, green fluorescent protein (GFP) signals were not detectable in vegetative hyphae and conidiophores. Mig1-GFP was localized to nuclei in conidia, appressoria, and infectious hyphae. Deletion of the MADS box had no effect on the expression and localization of the MIG1-GFP fusion but eliminated its ability to complement the mig1 mutant. These results suggest that MIG1 may be required for overcoming plant defense responses and the differentiation of secondary infectious hyphae in live plant cells. The MADS-box domain is essential for the function of MIG1 but dispensable for its nuclear localization, which may be associated with the activation of MIG1 by MPS1 during conidiation and plant infection.
The barley plastome mutant CL2 (cytoplasmic line 2) carries a point mutation in the infA gene, a homologue of the bacterial gene for the conserved translation initiator factor 1 (IF1). The function of infA in plastids is not known. The mutation in CL2 leads to a temporal chlorophyll deficiency in the primary leaf blade that is normalised in the basal and middle parts during further development. We have compared the expression of selected nuclear and plastid genes in different parts of primary leaves of CL2 and wild-type and found no indication for an adverse effect of the mutation on plastidial transcription. We observed an enhanced expression of RpoTp (encoding the phage-type nuclear-encoded plastid RNA polymerase) suggested to be caused by retrograde plastid signalling. Decreased amounts of plastid rRNA in basal and top sections are in agreement with the idea that the mutation in infA leads to a time- and position-dependent defect of plastid translation that causes a delay in plastid development. The normalisation of the phenotype in the middle section of CL2 leaves correlates with wild-type levels of chloroplast 16S rRNA and RbcL and increased expression of plastid housekeeping genes. The normalisation was not observed in cells at the tip of CL2 leaves suggesting different ways of regulating chloroplast development in cells at the tip of primary barley leaves as compared with other leaf sections.
In contrast to other cereals, typical barley cultivars have caryopses with adhering hulls at maturity, known as covered (hulled) barley. However, a few barley cultivars are a free-threshing variant called naked (hulless) barley. The covered/naked caryopsis is controlled by a single locus (nud) on chromosome arm 7HL. On the basis of positional cloning, we concluded that an ethylene response factor (ERF) family transcription factor gene controls the covered/naked caryopsis phenotype. This conclusion was validated by (i) fixation of the 17-kb deletion harboring the ERF gene among all 100 naked cultivars studied; (ii) two x-ray-induced nud alleles with a DNA lesion at a different site, each affecting the putative functional motif; and (iii) gene expression strictly localized to the testa. Available results indicate the monophyletic origin of naked barley. The Nud gene has homology to the Arabidopsis WIN1/SHN1 transcription factor gene, whose deduced function is control of a lipid biosynthesis pathway. Staining with a lipophilic dye (Sudan black B) detected a lipid layer on the pericarp epidermis only in covered barley. We infer that, in covered barley, the contact of the caryopsis surface, overlaid with lipids to the inner side of the hull, generates organ adhesion.
The Dhn5 gene is the major cold-inducible dehydrin gene in barley. This study deals with the relationship between Dhn5 gene expression and its protein product accumulation, and the development of frost tolerance (FT) upon cold acclimation (CA) in 10 barley cultivars of different growth habits and geographical origins. The activation of Dhn5 gene expression was determined by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), the accumulation of DHN5 protein was evaluated by protein gel blot analysis using a specific anti-dehydrin antibody, and the acquired level of FT was determined by a direct frost test. During the first 2 weeks of CA, there was a rapid increase in Dhn5 gene expression, DHN5 protein accumulation and FT in all cultivars examined. After 2 weeks of CA, differences in DHN5 accumulation and in FT measured as lethal temperature (LT(50)) were observed between the cultivars belonging to different growth habits. Specifically, intermediate (I) and winter (W) cultivars showed a higher level of DHN5 accumulation and FT than the spring (S) cultivars, which exhibited a lower level of accumulated DHN5 and FT. (Intermediate cultivars do not have vernalization requirement, but they are able to induce a relatively high level of FT upon CA.) In contrast, no differences between the cultivars belonging to different growth habits in Dhn5 mRNA accumulation were found. After 3 weeks of CA, the differences in accumulated DHN5 and FT between the individual growth habits became evident due to different developmental regulation of FT. The amount of accumulated DHN5 corresponded well with the level of FT of individual cultivars. We conclude that the amount of accumulated DHN5 after a certain period of CA differed according to the growth habits of cultivars and can be used as a marker for determination of FT in barley.
Nonhomologous repair of double-stranded breaks, although fundamental to the maintenance of genomic integrity in all eukaryotes, has received little attention as to its evolutionary consequences in the generation and selection of phenotypic diversity. Here we document the role of illegitimate recombination in the creation of novel alleles in VRN1 orthologs selected to confer adaptation to annual cropping systems in barley and wheat.
Seed coating by a phenazine-producing bacterium, Pseudomonas chlororaphis O6, induced dose-dependent inhibition of germination in wheat and barley seeds, but did not inhibit germination of rice or cucumber seeds. In wheat seedlings grown from inoculated seeds, phenazine production levels near the seed were higher than in the roots. Deletion of the gacS gene reduced transcription from the genes required for phenazine synthesis, the regulatory phzI gene and the biosynthetic phzA gene. The inhibition of seed germination and the induction of systemic disease resistance against a bacterial soft-rot pathogen, Erwinia carotovora subsp. carotovora, were impaired in the gacS and phzA mutants of P chlororaphis O6. Culture filtrates of the gacS and phzA mutants of P chlororaphis 06 did not inhibit seed germination of wheat, whereas that of the wild-type was inhibitory. Our results showed that the production of phenazines by P chlororaphis O6 was correlated with reduced germination of barley and wheat seeds, and the level of systemic resistance in tobacco against E. carotovora.
Accumulation of storage compounds in the embryo and endosperm of developing seeds is a highly regulated process that allows seedling growth upon germination until photosynthetic capacity is acquired. A critical regulatory element in the promoters of seed storage protein (SSP) genes from dicotyledonous species is the RY box, a target of B3-type transcription factors. However, the functionality of this motif in the transcriptional regulation of SSP genes from cereals has not been fully established. We report here the identification and molecular characterization of barley FUSCA3, a B3-type transcription factor as yet uncharacterized in monocotyledonous plants. Our results show that both the barley and Arabidopsis FUS3 genes maintain a conserved functionality for the regulation of SSP genes and anthocyanin biosynthesis in these two distantly related phylogenetic groups. Complementation of the loss-of-function mutant fus3 in Arabidopsis by the barley HvFus3 gene resulted in restored transcription from the At2S3 gene promoter and normal accumulation of anthocyanins in the seed. In barley, HvFUS3 participates in transcriptional activation of the endosperm-specific genes Hor2 and Itr1. HvFUS3, which specifically binds to RY boxes in EMSA experiments, trans-activates Hor2 and Itr1 promoters containing intact RY boxes in transient expression assays in developing endosperms. Mutations in the RY boxes abolished the HvFUS3-mediated trans-activation. HvFus3 transcripts accumulate in the endosperm and in the embryo of developing seeds, peaking at mid maturation phase. Remarkably, HvFUS3 interacts with the Opaque2-like bZIP factor BLZ2 in yeast, and this interaction is essential for full trans-activation of the seed-specific genes in planta.
To identify genes involved in the regulation and execution of leaf senescence and whole-plant nitrogen reallocation, near-isogenic barley germplasm divergent in senescence timing and protein concentration of mature grains was contrasted. Barley lines differing in allelic state at a major locus on chromosome six, controlling grain protein concentration, were obtained after four generations of backcrossing. Based on physiological data indicating major differences between low- and high-grain protein germplasm at 14-21 d past anthesis, the flag leaf and kernel transcriptomes of the low-protein parent and one high-protein near-isogenic line were compared at these time points, using the 22-k Barley1 Affymetrix microarray. Our data associate several genes with both known (based on sequence comparisons) and unknown functions with the senescence process. These include leucine-rich repeat transmembrane protein kinases, a glycine-rich RNA-binding protein with homology to AtGRP7 and a 'mother of FT/TF1' gene. Our data also indicate upregulation of genes coding for both plastidial and extraplastidial proteases in germplasm with accelerated leaf senescence. Functional characterization of candidate genes identified by this research may contribute to our understanding of the molecular network underlying leaf senescence and nitrogen reallocation.
Fusarium head blight, caused primarily by Fusarium graminearum, is a major disease problem on barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Trichothecene mycotoxins produced by the fungus during infection increase the aggressiveness of the fungus and promote infection in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Loss-of-function mutations in the TRI5 gene in F. graminearum result in the inability to synthesize trichothecenes and in reduced virulence on wheat. We examined the impact of pathogen-derived trichothecenes on virulence and the transcriptional differences in barley spikes infected with a trichothecene-producing wild-type strain and a loss-of-function tri5 trichothecene nonproducing mutant. Disease severity, fungal biomass, and floret necrosis and bleaching were reduced in spikes inoculated with the tri5 mutant strain compared with the wild-type strain, indicating that the inability to synthesize trichothecenes results in reduced virulence in barley. We detected 63 transcripts that were induced during trichothecene accumulation, including genes encoding putative trichothecene detoxification and transport proteins, ubiquitination-related proteins, programmed cell death-related proteins, transcription factors, and cytochrome P450s. We also detected 414 gene transcripts that were designated as basal defense response genes largely independent of trichothecene accumulation. Our results show that barley exhibits a specific response to trichothecene accumulation that can be separated from the basal defense response. We propose that barley responds to trichothecene accumulation by inducing at least two general responses. One response is the induction of genes encoding trichothecene detoxification and transport activities that may reduce the impact of trichothecenes. The other response is to induce genes encoding proteins associated with ubiquitination and cell death which may promote successful establishment of the disease.
The tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domain mediates inter-protein associations in a number of systems. The domain is also thought to mediate oligomerization of some proteins, but this has remained controversial, with conflicting data appearing in the literature. By way of investigating such TPR-mediated self-associations we used a variety of biophysical techniques to characterize purified recombinant Sgt1, a TPR-containing protein found in all eukaryotes that is involved in a broad range of biological processes, including kinetochore assembly in humans and yeast and disease resistance in plants. We show that recombinant Sgt1 from Arabidopsis, barley, and yeast self-associates in vitro while recombinant human Sgt1 does not. Further experiments on barley Sgt1 demonstrate unambiguously a TPR-mediated dimerization, which is concentration- and ionic-strength-dependent and results in a global increase in helical structure and stability of the protein. Dimerization is also redox sensitive, being completely abolished by the formation of an intramolecular disulfide bond where the contributing cysteines are conserved in plant Sgt1s. The dimer interface was mapped through cross-linking and mass spectrometry to the C-terminal region of the TPR domain. Our study, which provides the first biophysical characterization of plant Sgt1, highlights how TPR domains can mediate self-association in solution and that sequence variation in the regions involved in oligomerization affects the propensity of TPR-containing proteins to dimerize.
Barley is an economically important model for the Triticeae tribe. We recently developed a new resource: the 'Nure' x 'Tremois' mapping population. Two low temperature QTLs were found to segregate on the long arm of chromosome 5H (Fr-H1, distal; Fr-H2, proximal). With the final aim of positional cloning of the genetic determinants of Fr-H1 and Fr-H2, a large segregating population of 1,849 F(2) plants between parents 'Nure' and 'Tremois' was prepared. These two QT loci were first validated by using a set of F(3) families, marker-selected to harbor pairs of reciprocal haplotypes, with one QTL fixed at homozygosity and the alternate one in heterozygous phase. The study was then focused towards the isolation of the determinant of Fr-H2. Subsequent recombinant screens and phenotypic evaluation of F(4) segregants allowed us to estimate (P < or = 0.01) a refined genomic interval of Fr-H2 (4.6 cM). Several barley genes with the CBF transcription factor signature had been already roughly mapped in cluster at Fr-H2, and they represent likely candidate genes underlying this QTL. Using the large segregating population (3,698 gametes) a high-resolution genetic map of the HvCBF gene cluster was then constructed, and after fine mapping, six recombinations between the HvCBFs were observed. It was therefore possible to genetically divide seven HvCBF subclusters in barley, in a region spanning 0.81 cM, with distances among them varying from 0.03 to 0.32 cM. The few recombinants between the different HvCBF subclusters are being marker-selected and taken to homozygosity, to phenotypically separate the effects of the single HvCBF genes.
Pathogens induce the expression of many genes encoding plant transcription factors, though specific knowledge of the biological function of individual transcription factors remains scarce. NAC transcription factors are encoded in plants by a gene family with proposed functions in both abiotic and biotic stress adaptation, as well as in developmental processes. In this paper, we provide convincing evidence that a barley NAC transcription factor has a direct role in regulating basal defence. The gene transcript was isolated by differential display from barley leaves infected with the biotrophic powdery mildew fungus, Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh). The full-length cDNA clone was obtained using 5'-RACE and termed HvNAC6, due to its high similarity to the rice homologue, OsNAC6. Gene silencing of HvNAC6 during Bgh inoculation compromises penetration resistance in barley epidermal cells towards virulent Bgh. Complementing the effect of HvNAC6 gene silencing, transient overexpression of HvNAC6 increases the occurrence of penetration resistant cells towards Bgh attack. Quantitative RT-PCR shows the early and transient induction of HvNAC6 in barley epidermis upon Bgh infection. Additionally, our results show that the Arabidopsis HvNAC6 homologue ATAF1 is also induced by Bgh and the ataf1-1 mutant line shows decreased penetration resistance to this non-host pathogen. Collectively, these data suggest a conserved role of HvNAC6 and ATAF1 in the regulation of penetration resistance in monocots and dicots, respectively.
C-repeat/dehydration-responsive element binding factors (CBF/DREBs) are a family of transcription factors that regulate freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis. As a step towards understanding the stress response of monocotyledonous plants, we isolated a barley gene HvCBF4 whose expression is induced by low-temperature stress. Transgenic over-expression of HvCBF4 in rice resulted in an increase in tolerance to drought, high-salinity and low-temperature stresses without stunting growth. Interestingly, under low-temperature conditions, the maximum photochemical efficiency of photosystem II in the dark-adapted state (F(v)/F(m), where F(v) is the variable fluorescence and F(m) is the maximum fluorescence) in HvCBF4 plants was higher by 20% and 10% than that in non-transgenic and CBF3/DREB1A plants, respectively. Using the 60K Rice Whole Genome microarray, 15 rice genes were identified that were activated by HvCBF4. When compared with 12 target rice genes of CBF3/DREB1A, five genes were common to both HvCBF4 and CBF3/DREB1A, and 10 and seven genes were specific to HvCBF4 and CBF3/DREB1A, respectively. Interestingly, HvCBF4 did not activate Dip1 and Lip5, two important target genes of CBF3/DREB1A, in transgenic rice under normal growth conditions, but their expression was enhanced by HvCBF4 under low-temperature conditions. Our results suggest that CBF/DREBs of barley act differently from those of Arabidopsis in transgenic rice.
Upon germination of seed cereals, mobilization of the reserves stored in the endosperm is regulated by the phytohormones gibberellins (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA). In barley, the cis regulatory elements and the trans-acting factors mediating the ABA response of hydrolase genes remain elusive. Two new barley genes, HvDof17 and HvDof19, encoding transcription factors (TFs) of the DNA binding with one finger (DOF) class have been characterized and their role upon germination investigated. HvDOF19 binds in a specific manner to the pyrimidine box within the GARC of a thiol-protease gene (Al21), and mediates the ABA repression of this gene in the barley aleurone. Silencing of HvDof19 in transient expression assays diminishes the inhibitory effect of ABA upon expression of the Al21 gene promoter. Transcripts from HvDof17 and HvDof19 accumulate early in germinating aleurones with a peak at 16 h after seed imbibition (hai), whereas the mRNAs of the GA-induced activator GAMYB remain little expressed. At 48 hai, mRNA content of both genes is comparatively insignificant compared with that of GAMYB, which reaches a maximum. Both TFs repress, in transient expression assays, the GA- and the GAMYB-mediated activation of this thiol-protease gene (Al21). In addition, HvDOF17 and HvDOF19 interact with GAMYB in plant cell nuclei, and HvDOF17, but not HvDOF19, interferes with the DNA binding of GAMYB to its target site in the promoter of the Al21 gene. A regulatory model of hydrolase gene expression upon germination is proposed.
High-temperature stress causes abortive male reproductive development in many plant species. Here, we report a putative mechanism of high-temperature injury during anther early development in barley plants (Hordeum vulgare L). Under high-temperature conditions (30 degrees C day/25 degrees C night), cell-proliferation arrest, increased vacuolization, over-development of chloroplasts, and certain abnormalities of the mitochondria, nuclear membrane, and rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) were observed in developing anther cells, but not in developing ovule cells. Moreover, premature degradation of tapetum cells and premature progression to meiotic prophase in pollen mother cells (PMCs) were also observed. To monitor transcriptional alterations during high-temperature injury, we performed DNA microarray analysis using the 22K Barley1 GeneChip. Expression profiles were captured at four time points during the early development of panicles, and during vegetative growth of seedlings as a control, with or without high-temperature treatment. Abiotic or biotic stress related genes were equally or more dominantly up-regulated in the seedlings exposed to high temperatures compared with the panicles. In contrast, certain genes associated with histones, DNA replication initiation, mitochondria, and ribosomes were specifically repressed in the exposed panicles. In situ hybridization studies indicated that repression locally occurred on the developing anther cells exposed to high temperatures. Microarray analysis also indicated that a series of genes, including a meiosis-specific gene Asy1 and anther-specific lipid transfer protein genes, was prematurely up-regulated at an earlier stage under high-temperature conditions. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR analyses well confirmed the expression differences of certain key genes predicted by the DNA microarrays. These results suggest that high-temperature causes premature progression of anther early development program and fate, such as progression to meiosis of PMCs, cell-proliferation arrest and degradation in anther wall cells, accompanied by comprehensive alterations in transcription.
The dehydration-responsive element binding proteins (DREB1)/C-repeat (CRT) binding factors (CBF) function as transcription activators and bind to the DRE/CRT cis-acting element commonly present in the promoters of abiotic stress-regulated genes. A DREB1A transcription factor ortholog was isolated from a xeric, wild barley (Hordeum spontaneum L.) accession, originating from the Negev desert. Sequence comparison revealed a very high degree of sequence conservation of HsDREB1A to the published barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) DREB1A. Constitutive expression of the HsDREB1A gene was able to trans-activate a reporter gene under transcriptional control of the stress-inducible HVA1s and Dhn8 promoters. HsDREB1A was subcloned under transcriptional control of the stress-inducible barley HVA1s promoter and introduced into the apomictic bahiagrass (Paspalum notatum Flugge) cultivar 'Argentine'. HsDREB1A integration and stress inducible expression was detected in primary transgenic bahiagrass plants and apomictic seed progeny by Southern blot, RT-PCR and northern blot analysis respectively. Transgenic bahiagrass plants with stress-inducible expression of HsDREB1A survived severe salt stress and repeated cycles of severe dehydration stress under controlled environment conditions, in contrast to non-transgenic plants. The observed abiotic stress tolerance is very desirable in turf and forage grasses like bahiagrass, where seasonal droughts and irrigation restrictions affect establishment, persistence or productivity of this perennial crop.
It is well known that abscisic acid (ABA) antagonizes gibberellin (GA)-promoted seed germination. Recent circumstantial evidence suggests that salicylic acid (SA) also inhibits seed germination in maize and Arabidopsis. Our study shows that SA blocks barley seed germination in a dosage dependent manner. As an initial effort to addressing the mechanism controlling the crosstalk of SA, GA and ABA signaling in barley, we studied the regulation of alpha-amylases by SA and a WRKY gene whose expression is modulated by these hormones. Assays of alpha-amylase activity reveal that GA-induced alpha-amylase production in aleurone cells is inhibited by bioactive SA, but not its analogs, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid. This inhibitory effect is unlikely due to repressing alpha-amylase secretion or inhibiting alpha-amylase enzyme activities. Northern blot analyses indicate that SA suppresses GA-induced expression of a barley low pI alpha-amylase gene (Amy32b). Because our previous data indicate that ABA-inducible and GA-suppressible WRKY genes inhibit the expression of alpha-amylase genes in rice, we studied the steady state mRNA levels of a barley WRKY gene, HvWRKY38. The expression of HvWRKY38 in barley aleurone cells is down-regulated by GA, but up-regulated by SA and ABA. However, the regulation of HvWRKY38 by SA appears to be different from that of ABA in term of the kinetics and levels of induction. Over-expression of HvWRKY38 in aleurone cells by particle bombardment blocks GA induction of the Amy32b promoter reporter construct (Amy32b-GUS). Therefore, HvWRKY38 might serve as a converging node of SA and ABA signal pathways involved in suppressing GA-induced seed germination.
Drought is one of the most severe stresses limiting plant growth and yield. Genes involved in water stress tolerance of wild barley (Hordeum spontaneoum), the progenitor of cultivated barley, were investigated using genotypes contrasting in their response to water stress. Gene expression profiles of water-stress tolerant vs. water-stress sensitive wild barley genotypes, under severe dehydration stress applied at the seedling stage, were compared using cDNA-AFLP analysis. Of the 1100 transcript-derived fragments (TDFs) amplified about 70 displayed differential expression between control and stress conditions. Eleven of them showed clear difference (up- or down-regulation) between tolerant and susceptible genotypes. These TDFs were isolated, sequenced and tested by RT-PCR. The differential expression of seven TDFs was confirmed by RT-PCR, and TDF-4 was selected as a promising candidate gene for water-stress tolerance. The corresponding gene, designated Hsdr4 (Hordeum spontaneum dehydration-responsive), was sequenced and the transcribed and flanking regions were determined. The deduced amino acid sequence has similarity to the rice Rho-GTPase-activating protein-like with a Sec14 p-like lipid-binding domain. Analysis of Hsdr4 promoter region that was isolated by screening a barley BAC library, revealed a new putative miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (MITE), and several potential stress-related binding sites for transcription factors (MYC, MYB, LTRE, and GT-1), suggesting a role of the Hsdr4 gene in plant tolerance to dehydration stress. Furthermore, the Hsdr4 gene was mapped using wild barley mapping population to the long arm of chromosome 3H between markers EBmac541 and EBmag705, within a region that previously was shown to affect osmotic adaptation in barley.
Plant immune responses are triggered by pattern recognition receptors that detect conserved pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) or by resistance (R) proteins recognizing isolate-specific pathogen effectors. We show that in barley, intracellular mildew A (MLA) R proteins function in the nucleus to confer resistance against the powdery mildew fungus. Recognition of the fungal avirulence A10 effector by MLA10 induces nuclear associations between receptor and WRKY transcription factors. The identified WRKY proteins act as repressors of PAMP-triggered basal defense. MLA appears to interfere with the WRKY repressor function, thereby de-repressing PAMP-triggered basal defense. Our findings reveal a mechanism by which these polymorphic immune receptors integrate distinct pathogen signals.
This article deals with the origin and evolution of the DOF transcription factor family through a phylogenetic analysis of those DOF sequences identified from a variety of representative organisms from different taxonomic groups: the green unicellular alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, the moss Physcomitrella patens, the fern Selaginella moellendorffii, the gymnosperm Pinus taeda, the dicotyledoneous Arabidopsis thaliana and the monocotyledoneous angiosperms Oryza sativa and Hordeum vulgare. In barley, we have identified 26 different DOF genes by sequence analyses of clones isolated from the screening of genomic libraries and of ESTs, whereas a single DOF gene was identified by bioinformatics searches in the Chlamydomonas genome. The phylogenetic analysis groups all these genes into six major clusters of orthologs originated from a primary basal grade. Our results suggest that duplications of an ancestral DOF, probably formed in the photosynthetic eukaryotic ancestor, followed by subsequent neo-, sub-functionalization and pseudogenization processes would have triggered the expansion of the DOF family. Loss, acquisition and shuffling of conserved motifs among the new DOFs likely underlie the mechanism of formation of the distinct subfamilies.
This study describes the identification of over 150 target proteins of the five 14-3-3 isoforms in 7-d-old barley (Hordeum vulgare) cv Himalaya seedlings using yeast two-hybrid screens complemented with 14-3-3 protein affinity purification and tandem mass spectrometry. Independent experiments for a subset of genes confirmed the yeast two-hybrid interactions, demonstrating a low false positive identification rate. These combined approaches resulted in the identification of more than 150 putative targets; 15% were previously reported to be 14-3-3 interactors, including, for example, Serpin, RF2A, WPK4 kinase, P-type proton-translocating adenosine triphosphatase, EF1A, glutamine synthetase, and invertases. The affinity purification resulted in 30 interactors, of which 44% function in metabolism, while the yeast two-hybrid screens identified 132 different proteins, with 35% of the proteins involved in signal transduction. A number of proteins have a well-described function in hormonal signaling, such as the auxin transport protein PIN1 and NPH3 and components of the brassinosteroid pathway, such as the receptor kinase BAK1 (OsPERK1) and BRI1-kinase domain-interacting protein 129. However, 14-3-3 interactions with these signal mediators have not been confirmed in the affinity purification. Confirmations of the 14-3-3 interaction with the three ABF-like transcription factors are shown using far western analysis. Also, a REPRESSION OF SHOOT GROWTH ortholog named RF2A was identified; these transcription factors play important roles in the abscisic acid and gibberellin pathways, respectively. We speculate that 14-3-3 proteins have a role in cross talk between these hormonal pathways. The specificity and complementary nature of both the affinity purification and the yeast two-hybrid approaches is discussed.
Analysis of the functions of Short Vegetative Phase (SVP)-like MADS-box genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare) indicated a role in determining meristem identity. Three SVP-like genes are expressed in vegetative tissues of barley: Barley MADS1 (BM1), BM10, and Vegetative to Reproductive Transition gene 2. These genes are induced by cold but are repressed during floral development. Ectopic expression of BM1 inhibited spike development and caused floral reversion in barley, with florets at the base of the spike replaced by tillers. Head emergence was delayed in plants that ectopically express BM1, primarily by delayed development after the floral transition, but expression levels of the barley VRN1 gene (HvVRN1) were not affected. Ectopic expression of BM10 inhibited spike development and caused partial floral reversion, where florets at the base of the spike were replaced by inflorescence-like structures, but did not affect heading date. Floral reversion occurred more frequently when BM1 and BM10 ectopic expression lines were grown in short-day conditions. BM1 and BM10 also inhibited floral development and caused floral reversion when expressed in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). We conclude that SVP-like genes function to suppress floral meristem identity in winter cereals.
We isolated HvRAF (Hordeum vulgare root abundant factor), a cDNA encoding a novel ethylene response factor (ERF)-type transcription factor, from young seedlings of barley. In addition to the most highly conserved APETALA2/ERF DNA-binding domain, the encoded protein contained an N-terminal MCGGAIL signature sequence, a putative nuclear localization sequence, and a C-terminal acidic transcription activation domain containing a novel mammalian hemopexin domain signature-like sequence. Their homologous sequences were found in AAK92635 from rice and RAP2.2 from Arabidopsis; the ERF proteins most closely related to HvRAF, reflecting their functional importance. RNA blot analyses revealed that HvRAF transcripts were more abundant in roots than in leaves. HvRAF expression was induced in barley seedlings by various treatment regimes such as salicylic acid, ethephon, methyl jasmonate, cellulase, and methyl viologen. In a subcellular localization assay, the HvRAF-GFP fusion protein was targeted to the nucleus. The fusion protein of HvRAF with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain strongly activated transcription in yeast. Various deletion mutants of HvRAF indicated that the transactivating activity was localized to the acidic domain of the C-terminal region, and that the hemopexin domain signature-like sequence was important for the activity. Overexpression of the HvRAF gene in Arabidopsis plants induced the activation of various stress-responsive genes, including PDF1.2, JR3, PR1, PR5, KIN2, and GSH1. Furthermore, the transgenic Arabidopsis plants showed enhanced resistance to Ralstonia solanacearum strain GMI1000, as well as seed germination and root growth tolerance to high salinity. These results collectively indicate that HvRAF is a transcription factor that plays dual regulatory roles in response to biotic and abiotic stresses in plants.
To clarify the molecular mechanism that regulates iron (Fe) acquisition in graminaceous plants, a time-course analysis of gene expression during Fe deficiency stress was conducted using a rice 22K oligo-DNA microarray. Twenty-one genes for proteins that function in gene regulation were induced by Fe deficiency. Of these genes, a putative basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor gene, named OsIRO2, was strongly expressed in both roots and shoots during Fe deficiency stress. The expression of OsIRO2 was induced exclusively by Fe deficiency, and not by deficiencies in other metals. Expression of the barley HvIRO2 gene, which is a homologue of OsIRO2, was also induced by Fe deficiency. An in silico search revealed that IRO2 is highly conserved among graminaceous plants, which include wheat, sorghum, and maize. The cyclic amplification and selection of targets (CASTing) technique revealed that OsIRO2 bound preferentially to the sequence 5'-ACCACGTGGTTTT-3', and the electrophoretic mobility shift assay revealed 5'-CACGTGG-3' as the core sequence for OsIRO2 binding. Sequences similar to the OsIRO2-binding sequence were found upstream of several genes that are involved in Fe acquisition, such as OsNAS1, OsNAS3, OsIRT1, OsFDH, OsAPT1, and IDS3. The core sequence of the OsIRO2-binding sequence occurred more frequently in the upstream regions of Fe deficiency-inducible genes than in the corresponding regions of non-inducible genes. These results suggest that IRO2 is involved in the regulation of gene expression under Fe-deficient conditions.
Gene expression patterns covering over 10,000 seed-expressed sequences were analyzed by macroarray technology in maternal tissue (mainly pericarp) and filial endosperm and embryo during barley seed development from anthesis until late maturation. Defined sets of genes showing distinct expression patterns characterized both tissue type and major developmental phases. The analysis focused on regulatory networks involved in programmed cell death (PCD) and abscisic acid (ABA)-mediated maturation. These processes were similar in the different tissues, but typically involved the expression of alternative members of a common gene family. The analysis of co-expressed gene sets and the identification of cis regulatory elements in orthologous rice gene 'promoter' regions suggest that PCD in the pericarp is mediated by distinct classes of proteases and is under the hormonal control of both jasmonic acid (JA) and ethylene via ethylene-responsive element binding protein (EREBP) transcription factors (TFs). On the other hand, PCD in endosperm apparently involves only the ethylene pathway, but employs distinct gene family members from those active in the pericarp, and a different set of proteases and TFs. JA biosynthetic genes are hardly activated. Accordingly, JA levels are high in the pericarp but low in the endosperm during middle and late developmental stages. Similarly, genes acting in the deduced ABA biosynthetic pathway and signaling network differ between endosperm and embryo. ABA in the endosperm appears to exert an influence over storage product synthesis via SNF1 kinase. In the embryo, ABA seems to influence the acquisition of desiccation tolerance via ABA response element binding factors, but the data also suggest the existence of an ABA-independent but interactive pathway acting via the dehydration-responsive element binding (DREB) 2A TF.
The SHAQKYF R1MYB transcription factor (TF) HvMYBS3 from barley is an activator of gene expression both during endosperm development and in aleurone cells upon seed germination. Its mRNA was detected as early as 10 days after flowering in developing barley endosperm, with a peak at 18 days, and in aleurone cells at 8 h after water imbibition, as shown by Northern blot and in situ hybridization analyses. The HvMYBS3 protein expressed in bacteria binds to oligonucleotides containing a GATA core derived from the promoters of: (i) the developing endosperm gene Itr1 (5'-GATAAGATA-3') encoding trypsin inhibitor BTI-CMe, and (ii) the post-germinating aleurone gene Amy6.4 (5'-TATCCAC-3'/5'-GTGGATA-3') encoding a high-pI alpha-amylase. Transient expression experiments in co-bombarded developing endosperms and in barley aleurone layers demonstrated that HvMYBS3 trans-activated transcription both from Itr1 and Amy6.4 promoters, in contrast with a previously reported seed-expressed R1MYB, HvMCB1, which was an activator of Itr1 and a transcriptional repressor of the Amy6.4 gene. In the yeast three-hybrid system, the HvMYBS3 protein formed a ternary complex with BPBF and BLZ2, two important seed TFs. However, no binary interactions could be detected between HvMYBS3 and BLZ2 or between HvMYBS3 and BPBF.
Fusarium head blight (FHB) of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is caused by Fusarium graminearum. FHB causes yield losses and reduction in grain quality primarily due to the accumulation of trichothecene mycotoxins such as deoxynivalenol (DON). To develop an understanding of the barley-F. graminearum interaction, we examined the relationship among the infection process, DON concentration, and host transcript accumulation for 22,439 genes in spikes from the susceptible cv. Morex from 0 to 144 h after F. graminearum and water control inoculation. We detected 467 differentially accumulating barley gene transcripts in the F. graminearum-treated plants compared with the water control-treated plants. Functional annotation of the transcripts revealed a variety of infection-induced host genes encoding defense response proteins, oxidative burst-associated enzymes, and phenylpropanoid pathway enzymes. Of particular interest was the induction of transcripts encoding potential trichothecene catabolic enzymes and transporters, and the induction of the tryptophan biosynthetic and catabolic pathway enzymes. Our results define three stages of E graminearum infection. An early stage, between 0 and 48 h after inoculation (hai), exhibited limited fungal development, low DON accumulation, and little change in the transcript accumulation status. An intermediate stage, between 48 and 96 hai, showed increased fungal development and active infection, higher DON accumulation, and increased transcript accumulation. A majority of the host gene transcripts were detected by 72 hai, suggesting that this is an important timepoint for the barley-F. graminearum interaction. A late stage also identified between 96 and 144 hai, exhibiting development of hyphal mats, high DON accumulation, and a reduction in the number of transcripts observed. Our study provides a baseline and hypothesis-generating dataset in barley during F. graminearum infection and in other grasses during pathogen infection.
We describe an efficient inducible system to regulate gene expression in plants based on quorum-sensing components found in Gram-negative bacteria such as Agrobacterium tumefaciens. These bacteria monitor their own population density by utilizing members of the N-acyl homoserine lactone family as inducers and a transcriptional activator as its receptor. In our study, we utilize the components from A. tumefaciens (i.e. 3-oxooctanyl-l-homoserine lactone [OOHL]) synthesized by the TraI protein and its receptor, TraR. When OOHL binds to TraR, it recognizes its specific cis-element, the tra box. We translationally fused the eukaryotic VP16 activation domain to the N terminus of TraR. In the presence of OOHL, the chimeric VP16:TraR transcriptional regulator induces reporter gene expression in moss (Physcomitrella patens), barley (Hordeum vulgare), and carrot (Daucus carota) cells, as well as in transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings. The inducible system shows a low level of reporter gene expression in the absence of the inducer. Foliar application and a floating-leaf assay in the presence of the inducer shows a 30- and 200-fold induction, respectively. Induction by foliar application of the inducer to whole seedlings is achieved within 8 h. The VP16:TraR activator also shows specificity for binding to its cognate inducer, OOHL. Based on microarray analyses, endogenous gene expression is not significantly affected due to overexpression of the TraR protein or presence of OOHL in either wild-type or lactone-inducible transgenic plants.
Assaying relative and absolute levels of gene expression in a diverse series of tissues is a central step in the process of characterizing gene function and a necessary component of almost all publications describing individual genes or gene family members. However, throughout the literature, such studies lack consistency in genotype, tissues analyzed, and growth conditions applied, and, as a result, the body of information that is currently assembled is fragmented and difficult to compare between different studies. The development of a comprehensive platform for assaying gene expression that is available to the entire research community provides a major opportunity to assess whole biological systems in a single experiment. It also integrates detailed knowledge and information on individual genes into a unified framework that provides both context and resource to explore their contributions in a broader biological system. We have established a data set that describes the expression of 21,439 barley genes in 15 tissues sampled throughout the development of the barley cv. Morex grown under highly controlled conditions. Rather than attempting to address a specific biological question, our experiment was designed to provide a reference gene expression data set for barley researchers; a gene expression atlas and a comparative data set for those investigating genes or regulatory networks in other plant species. In this paper we describe the tissues sampled and their transcriptomes, and provide summary information on genes that are either specifically expressed in certain tissues or show correlated expression patterns across all 15 tissue samples. Using specific examples and an online tutorial, we describe how the data set can be interrogated for patterns and levels of barley gene expression and how the resulting information can be used to generate and/or test specific biological hypotheses.
Two genetic loci control the vernalization response in winter cereals; VRN1, which encodes an AP1-like MADS-box transcription factor, and VRN2, which has been mapped to a chromosome region containing ZCCT zinc finger transcription factor genes. We examined whether daylength regulates expression of HvVRN1 and HvVRN2. In a vernalization-responsive winter barley (Hordeum vulgare), expression of HvVRN1 is regulated by vernalization and by development, but not by daylength. Daylength affected HvVRN1 expression in only one of six vernalization-insensitive spring barleys examined and so cannot be a general feature of regulation of this gene. In contrast, daylength is the major determinant of expression levels of two ZCCT genes found at the barley VRN2 locus, HvZCCTa and HvZCCTb. In winter barley, high levels of HvZCCTa and HvZCCTb expression were detected only when plants were grown in long days. During vernalization in long-day conditions, HvVRN1 is induced and expression of HvZCCTb is repressed. During vernalization under short days, induction of HvVRN1 occurs without changes in HvZCCTa and HvZCCTb expression. Analysis of HvZCCTa and HvZCCTb expression levels in a doubled haploid population segregating for different vernalization and daylength requirements showed that HvVRN1 genotype determines HvZCCTa and HvZCCTb expression levels. We conclude that the vernalization response is mediated through HvVRN1, whereas HvZCCTa and HvZCCTb respond to daylength cues to repress flowering under long days in nonvernalized plants.
Although barley and rice belong to the same family Poaceae, they differ in their ability to tolerate salt stress. In an attempt to understand the molecular bases of such differences, we compared changes in transcriptome between barley and rice in response to salt stress using barley cDNA microarrays. At 1 and 24 h after salt stress, many genes were up-regulated in barley, but not in rice. Leaf water potential declined in the first 10 h of stress in both species, but recovered in the period 24-48 h only in barley. In addition, we found that barley partitioned Na+ to the roots and away from the shoots more efficiently than rice. These differences in physiological responses were correlated with the differences in the steady-state abundance of transcripts for the genes related to adaptive functions. Transcripts for plasma membrane protein 3 and inorganic pyrophosphatase were up-regulated in both species, but only transiently in rice. This indicates that adaptive mechanisms for regulating ion homeostasis are partly conserved in the two species, but it seems that rice cannot sustain cellular ion homeostasis for a long time like barley. These results imply that genetic modification of regulatory controls of early salt-responsive genes might lead to development of the salt tolerance trait in rice.
Genetic control of grass inflorescence architecture is critical given that cereal seeds provide most of the world's food. Seeds are borne on axillary branches, which arise from groups of stem cells in axils of leaves and whose branching patterns dictate most of the variation in plant form. Normal maize (Zea mays) ears are unbranched, and tassels have long branches only at their base. The ramosa2 (ra2) mutant of maize has increased branching with short branches replaced by long, indeterminate ones. ra2 was cloned by chromosome walking and shown to encode a LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARY domain transcription factor. ra2 is transiently expressed in a group of cells that predicts the position of axillary meristem formation in inflorescences. Expression in different mutant backgrounds places ra2 upstream of other genes that regulate branch formation. The early expression of ra2 suggests that it functions in the patterning of stem cells in axillary meristems. Alignment of ra2-like sequences reveals a grass-specific domain in the C terminus that is not found in Arabidopsis thaliana. The ra2-dm allele suggests this domain is required for transcriptional activation of ra1. The ra2 expression pattern is conserved in rice (Oryza sativa), barley (Hordeum vulgare), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and maize, suggesting that ra2 is critical for shaping the initial steps of grass inflorescence architecture.
The functional analysis of hydrolase gene promoters induced by gibberellin (GA) in barley aleurone cells upon germination has identified a tripartite GA-response complex (GARC) containing a 5'-TATCCAC-3' box as well as the GA-responsive element (GARE) recognized by GAMYB and the pyrimidine box interacting with the DOF transcription factors BPBF and SAD. We show here that the MCB1 gene encoding a R1MYB protein binds to the 5'-TATCCAC-3' (GATA core) box in vitro and is a transcriptional repressor of a GA-induced amylase (Amy6.4) promoter in bombarded aleurone layers. Northern blot and mRNA in situ hybridization analyses showed that the MCB1 transcripts accumulate in the aleurone cells upon germination, as well as in endosperm tissues during seed development. The HvMCB1 protein expressed in bacteria binds in a specific manner to a 27-mer oligonucleotide containing the 5'-TATCCAC-3' sequence, derived from the promoter region of the Amy6.4 gene. Accumulation of the MCB1 transcript diminished in response to external GA incubation in aleurone cells, and in transient expression experiments HvMCB1 repressed transcription of the Amy6.4 promoter in GA-treated aleurone layers and reversed the GAMYB-mediated activation of this amylase promoter. In contrast, during endosperm maturation HvMCB1 acted as a transcription activator of the seed-specific Itr1 gene promoter through binding to a 5'-GATAAGATA-3' box.
Cereal crop yield is greatly affected in many growing areas by abiotic stresses, mainly low temperature and drought. In order to find candidates for the tolerance genes for these stresses, 13 genes encoding for transcription factors and upstream regulators were screened by amplification and SSCP on six parental genotypes of three barley mapping populations ('Nure' x 'Tremois', 'Proctor' x 'Nudinka', and 'Steptoe' x 'Morex'), and mapped as newly developed STS, SNP, and SSCP markers. A new consensus function map was then drawn using the three maps above, including 16 regulatory candidate genes (CGs). The positions of barley cold and drought tolerance quantitative trait loci (QTLs) presently described in the literature were added to the consensus map to find positional candidates from among the mapped genes. A cluster of six HvCBF genes co-mapped with the Fr-H2 cold tolerance QTL, while no QTLs for the same trait were positioned on chromosome 7H, where two putative barley regulators of CBF expression, ICE1 and FRY1, found by homology search, were mapped in this work. These observations suggest that CBF gene(s) themselves, rather than their two regulators, are at present the best candidates for cold tolerance. Four out of 12 drought tolerance QTLs of the consensus map are associated with regulatory CGs, on chromosomes 2H, 5H, and 7H, and two QTLs with effector genes, on chromosomes 5H and 6H. The results obtained could be used to guide MAS applications, allowing introduction into an ideal genotype of favourable alleles of tolerance QTLs.
The moss Physcomitrella patens possesses a single copy of a Group 1 LEA gene, designated PpLEA-1. Sequence analysis of the PpLEA-1 gene reveals the gene to contain a single intron in a position conserved in all members of the Group 1 LEA gene family, but also to contain a premature termination codon within the first exon. Nevertheless, a PpLEA-1 transcript accumulates in moss tissues in response both to the imposition of osmotic stress, and to the plant growth regulator abscisic acid (ABA). This response appears to be mediated at the transcriptional level, and observation of the pattern of gene expression, reported by histochemical staining of plants expressing a PpLea-1::GUS transgene suggests that the promoter responds preferentially to ABA in protonemal filaments, whereas osmotic stress induces gene expression primarily in the gametophores. Quantitative analysis of promoter activity by transient expression in Physcomitrella protoplasts shows the PpLEA-1 promoter to be highly active in response to ABA and osmotic stress. ABA-mediated transgene expression from the PpLea-1 promoter occurs at a level similar to that driven by the highly active promoter of the wheat Group 1 LEA gene, E(m). Site-directed mutagenesis of the PpLEA-1 promoter indicates that ABA-inducibility is mediated via an ACGT-core motif similar to that seen in the ABA response elements of higher plant LEA genes. However, whereas the wheat E(m )promoter is active in moss tissues, the moss promoter is not reciprocally active in cereal cells: no activity, ABA-inducible or otherwise was detected in barley aleurone protoplasts transfected with the PpLEA-1::GUS construct. We propose that ABA activation of gene expression in moss cells represents an ancestral state, with only minimal requirements for promoter recognition, whereas cereal cells require the interaction of additional factors with ABA-responsive promoters.
Assigning individual functions to the proteins encoded by the genome of the dicotyledonous reference species Arabidopsis thaliana is one of the major challenges in current plant molecular biology. Frequently, Arabidopsis protein families are biocomputationally analyzed by multiple amino acid sequence alignments of the respective family members for detection of conserved peptide motifs that might be of functional relevance. Mere sequence alignment of paralogous sequences may obscure amino acid patches that are highly conserved amongst orthologs and thus potentially relevant for isoform-specific protein function(s). Here I exemplarily illustrate this potential pitfall by amino acid sequence alignments of the heptahelical MLO proteins using either the suite of 15 isoforms (paralogs) encoded by the Arabidopsis genome or a collection of 13 ortholog sequences derived from a set of both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plant species. The findings are corroborated by an analogous analysis of the distinct plant multi-protein family of CONSTANS-like transcription regulators. The data reveal that the generally higher sequence similarity of orthologs versus paralogs is not uniformly distributed among the amino acid positions of the orthologs but at least partially clustered in distinct sites/domains, suggesting conservation of isoform-specific functional modules across taxa.
Vernalization, the requirement of a period of low temperature to induce transition from the vegetative to reproductive state, is an evolutionarily and economically important trait in the Triticeae. The genetic basis of vernalization in cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare subsp. vulgare) can be defined using the two-locus VRN-H1/VRN-H2 model. We analyzed the allelic characteristics of HvBM5A, the candidate gene for VRN-H1, from ten cultivated barley accessions and one wild progenitor accession (subsp. spontaneum), representing the three barley growth habits - winter, facultative, and spring. We present multiple lines of evidence, including sequence, linkage map location, and expression, that support HvBM5A being VRN-H1. While the predicted polypeptides from different growth habits are identical, spring accessions contain a deletion in the first intron of HvBM5A that may be important for regulation. While spring HvBM5A alleles are typified by the intron-localized deletion, in some cases, the promoter may also determine the allele type. The presence/absence of the tightly linked ZCCT-H gene family members on chromosome 4H perfectly correlates with growth habit and we conclude that one of the three ZCCT-H genes is VRN-H2. The VRN-H2 locus is present in winter genotypes and deleted from the facultative and spring genotypes analyzed in this study, suggesting the facultative growth habit (cold tolerant, vernalization unresponsive) is a result of deletion of the VRN-H2 locus and presence of a winter HvBM5A allele. All reported barley vernalization QTLs can be explained by the two-locus VRN-H1/VRN-H2 model based on the presence/absence of VRN-H2 and a winter vs. spring HvBM5A allele.
Sugar signalling cascades are important components of regulatory networks in cells. Compared with the situation in bacteria, yeast and animals, participants of the sugar signalling pathways in plants are poorly understood. Several genes involved in starch synthesis are known to be sugar inducible, although the signal transduction pathways remain undisclosed. We reported recently the isolation of SUSIBA2, a transcription factor involved in sugar-mediated regulation of starch synthesis. Here, we used antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) inhibition, a powerful approach in medical sciences, to block the effects of SUSIBA2 in sugar-treated barley leaves. The uptake and intracellular trafficking of an 18-mer susiba2 antisense ODN in leaves were followed by confocal microscopy. Administration of the antisense ODN to the leaves impeded susiba2 expression by RNase H activation. This dramatically diminished the ectopic expression of the iso1 and sbeIIb genes and resulted in altered starch synthesis. This study illustrates the successful exploitation of the antisense ODN technology in plant biology, e.g. as a rapid antecedent to time-consuming transgenic studies, and identifies SUSIBA2 as a transcriptional activator in plant sugar signalling. Based on our findings, we propose a model for sugar-signalling control of starch synthesis.
Survival in natural bulk soil and colonization of sugar beet seeds and barley straw residues were determined for Pseudomonas sp. strain DSS73 and Tn5 mutants in amsY (encoding a peptide synthetase involved in production of the cyclic lipopeptide amphisin) and gacS (encoding the sensory kinase of the two-component GacA/GacS regulatory system). No differences in survival or growth in response to carbon amendment (citrate) were observed in bulk soil. However, both mutants were impaired in their colonization of sugar beet seeds and barley straw residues by an inoculum established in the bulk soil. The two mutants had comparable colonization phenotypes, suggesting that amphisin production is more important for colonization than other gacS-controlled traits.
The DOF protein, SAD, previously shown to be a transcriptional activator in barley aleurone cells upon seed germination, also has an important role in gene regulation during endosperm development. mRNA was detected in early (10 days after flowering) developing barley seeds where it accumulated in the starchy endosperm, aleurone cells, nucellar projection, vascular tissues and the immature embryo, as shown by RT-PCR and in situ hybridization analyses. The SAD protein, expressed in bacteria, binds to oligonucleotides containing the prolamine box, 5'-A/TAAAG-3'sequence, derived from the promoter regions of the endosperm-specific genes Hor2 and Itr1, encoding a B-hordein and trypsin-inhibitor BTI-CMe, respectively. SAD competed for the same binding sites with another endosperm-expressed DOF protein, BPBF. Transient expression experiments in co-bombarded developing endosperms demonstrated that SAD trans-activated transcription from Hor2 and Itr1 promoters through binding to the intact DOF motifs. When the two DOF factors are co-bombarded together an additive effect was observed upon the expression of the Itr1 gene. In-frame fusion of the Sad ORF to the reporter green fluorescent protein gene directs the fluorescence expression to the nucleus in transiently transformed onion epidermal layers. The visualization of fluorescence in the nucleus of onion cells, using the bimolecular fluorescent complex (BiFC) approach, has shown the in vivo interaction between SAD and the R2R3MYB protein GAMYB. The interaction in plant cells has also been documented for the DOF protein BPBF and GAMYB, but nuclear interaction could not be detected between BPBF and SAD by this procedure.
The barley bZIP transcription factor HvABI5 mediates abscisic acid (ABA)-upregulated gene expression in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seeds. HvABI5 specifically recognizes cis-elements of the ABA response complexes present in the promoters of the ABA-induced genes HVA1 and HVA22. HvABI5 together with another transcription factor, HvVP1, are required for the transactivation of these promoters, and this transactivation process is insensitive to the negative regulator abi1-1. The expression of HvABI5 itself appeared to be induced by ABA and can be suppressed by abi1-1. Gain- and loss-of-function studies in barley aleurone cells show that HvABI5 expression is positively regulated by a feed-forward circuit that involves HvABI5 itself and HvVP1. Mutation of the Ser residue in HvABI5, which has been shown to be phosphorylated in an ABA-dependent manner in the rice orthologue of HvABI5, reduces the transactivation activity of the factor by 50%. Although levels of HvABI5 and its transcript are enhanced by ABA treatment, the nuclear localization of HvABI5 is not affected by ABA. A model based on these observations is presented to explain the ABA upregulation of gene expression.
The broad adaptability of wheat and barley is in part attributable to their flexible growth habit, in that spring forms have recurrently evolved from the ancestral winter growth habit. In diploid wheat and barley growth habit is determined by allelic variation at the VRN-1 and/or VRN-2 loci, whereas in the polyploid wheat species it is determined primarily by allelic variation at VRN-1. Dominant Vrn-A1 alleles for spring growth habit are frequently associated with mutations in the promoter region in diploid wheat and in the A genome of common wheat. However, several dominant Vrn-A1, Vrn-B1, Vrn-D1 (common wheat) and Vrn-H1 (barley) alleles show no polymorphisms in the promoter region relative to their respective recessive alleles. In this study, we sequenced the complete VRN-1 gene from these accessions and found that all of them have large deletions within the first intron, which overlap in a 4-kb region. Furthermore, a 2.8-kb segment within the 4-kb region showed high sequence conservation among the different recessive alleles. PCR markers for these deletions showed that similar deletions were present in all the accessions with known Vrn-B1 and Vrn-D1 alleles, and in 51 hexaploid spring wheat accessions previously shown to have no polymorphisms in the VRN-A1 promoter region. Twenty-four tetraploid wheat accessions had a similar deletion in VRN-A1 intron 1. We hypothesize that the 2.8-kb conserved region includes regulatory elements important for the vernalization requirement. Epistatic interactions between VRN-H2 and the VRN-H1 allele with the intron 1 deletion suggest that the deleted region may include a recognition site for the flowering repression mediated by the product of the VRN-H2 gene of barley.
Replication by many positive-strand RNA viruses includes genomic RNA amplification and subgenomic mRNA (sgRNA) transcription. For brome mosaic virus (BMV), both processes occur in virus-induced, membrane-associated compartments, require BMV replication factors 1a and 2a, and use negative-strand RNA3 as a template for genomic RNA3 and sgRNA syntheses. To begin elucidating their relations, we examined the interaction of RNA3 replication and sgRNA transcription in Saccharomyces cerevisiae expressing 1a and 2a, which support the full RNA3 replication cycle. Blocking sgRNA transcription stimulated RNA3 replication by up to 350%, implying that sgRNA transcription inhibits RNA3 replication. Such inhibition was independent of the sgRNA-encoded coat protein and operated in cis. We further found that sgRNA transcription inhibited RNA3 replication at a step or steps after negative-strand RNA3 synthesis, implying competition with positive-strand RNA3 synthesis for negative-strand RNA3 templates, viral replication factors, or common host components. Consistent with this, sgRNA transcription was stimulated by up to 400% when mutations inhibiting positive-strand RNA3 synthesis were introduced into the RNA3 5'-untranslated region. Thus, BMV subgenomic and genomic RNA syntheses mutually interfered with each other, apparently by competition for one or more common factors. In plant protoplasts replicating all three BMV genomic RNAs, mutations blocking sgRNA transcription often had lesser effects on RNA3 accumulation, possibly because RNA3 also competed with RNA1 and RNA2 replication templates and because any increase in RNA3 replication at the expense of RNA1 and RNA2 would be self-limited by decreased 1a and 2a expression from RNA1 and RNA2.
A genomic clone (Icy gene) encoding a barley cystatin has been characterized. The gene contains one intron interrupting its ORF that encodes a protein of 107 amino acid residues. A DNA fragment of -1058 bp upstream of the ATG translation initiation codon has been sequenced and several promoter deletions fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS; uidA gene) reporter gene obtained. Transient expression assays in different barley tissues have indicated that a -631 bp promoter fragment was sufficient for full activity. In bombarded barley aleurone layers the GUS-driven expression by this promoter is repressed by GA(3) incubation, as is the accumulation of the Icy transcripts detected. A spatial and temporal location of cystatin transcripts by in situ hybridization techniques indicates that this gene is ubiquitously expressed and its transcripts are particularly abundant in leaves and roots, and in seeds, both during development and upon germination. Two DOF transcription factors, SAD and BPBF, previously described as involved in gene expression regulation in seeds, interact specifically in vitro with oligonucleotides containing DOF binding-sites derived from the Icy gene promoter. Transient expression experiments in co-bombarded aleurone layers demonstrate that BPBF strongly represses transcription of the native Icy promoter, even when co-transfected with SAD that behaves as an activator in this in vivo system.
WRKY proteins constitute a large family of plant specific transcription factors implicated in many different processes. Here we describe Hv-WRKY38, a barley gene coding for a WRKY protein, whose expression is involved in cold and drought stress response. Hv-WRKY38 was early and transiently expressed during exposure to low non-freezing temperature, in ABA-independent manner. Furthermore, it showed a continuous induction during dehydration and freezing treatments. A WRKY38:YFP fusion protein was found to localise into the nucleus upon introduction into epidermal onion cells. Bacterially expressed Hv-WRKY38 was able to bind in vitro to the W-box element (T)TGAC(C/T) also recognisable by other WRKY proteins. Hv-WRKY38 genomic DNA was sequenced and mapped onto the centromeric region of the barley chromosome 6H. Arabidopsis and rice sequences homologous to Hv-WRKY38 were also identified. Our results indicate that Hv-WRKY38 transcription factor may play a regulatory role in abiotic stress response.
Some barley mutants can synthesize neither anthocyanins nor proanthocyanidins in the seed coat, which is related to several genes in locus Ant13, but the exact model of action remains unknown. We used the cDNA microarray technology with barley transcription-deficient mutant (ant13-152) that does not synthesize proanthocyanidins as the tester, and its wild type genotype (Triumph) as the driver, to study this question. Six-thousand and forty-eight clones from the wild type Morex testa+pericarp cDNA library were amplified using PCR, and the DNA fragments were spotted on commercial amino-modified glass slide as microarray. The mRNAs from the developing seed coat (8-15 days) of both the mutant and the wild-type barley plants were isolated, and labeled respectively with Cy3-dUTP and Cy5-dUTP when reversely transcribed to cDNAs. The labeled cDNAs were used as probes, mixed at the same molar concentration, and hybridized with the DNA fragments on the slide. Seventy clones exhibiting marked differential expression (ratio>4) were identified from the microarray. All the 25 cDNA clones that showed an over-expression in wild type in comparison to the mutant ant13-152 were sequenced. It was found that most of these overexpressing clones were transcription/translation and hordein-associated genes. These results have laid a solid material basis for further elucidation of the metabolic pathway in proanthocyanidin synthesis in barley and likely other plants.
To provide resources for barley genomics, 110,981 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were generated from 22 cDNA libraries representing tissues at various developmental stages. This EST collection corresponds to approximately one-third of the 380,000 publicly available barley ESTs. Clustering and assembly resulted in 14,151 tentative consensi (TCs) and 11 073 singletons, altogether representing 25 224 putatively unique sequences. Of these, 17.5% showed no significant similarity to other barley ESTs present in dbEST. More than 41% of all barley genes are supposed to belong to multigene families and approximately 4% of the barley genes undergo alternative splicing. Based on the functional annotation of the set of unique sequences, the functional category 'Energy' was further analysed to reveal tissue- and stage-specific differences in gene expression. Hierarchical clustering of 362 differentially expressed TCs resulted in the identification of seven major clusters. The clusters reflect biochemical pathways predominantly activated in specific tissues and at various developmental stages. During seed germination glycolysis could be identified as the most predominant biochemical pathway. Germination-specific glycolysis is characterized by the coordinated expression of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, whose antagonistic actions possibly regulate the flux of amino acids into protein biosynthesis and gluconeogenesis respectively. The expression of defence-related and antioxidant genes during germination might be controlled by the ethylene-signalling pathway as concluded from the coordinated expression of those genes and the transcription factors (TF) EIN3 and EREBPG. Moreover, because of their predominant expression in germinating seeds, TF of the AP2 and MYB type are presumably major regulators of germination.
SPINDLY (SPY) protein from barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Himalaya; HvSPY) negatively regulated GA responses in aleurone, and genetic analyses of Arabidopsis thaliana predict that SPY functions in a derepressible GA-signaling pathway. Many, if not all, GA-dependent responses require SPY protein, and to improve our understanding of how the SPY signaling pathway operates, a yeast two-hybrid screen was used to identify both upstream and downstream components that might regulate the activity of the HvSPY protein. A number of proteins from diverse classes were identified using HvSPY as bait and barley cDNA libraries as prey. Two of the HvSPY-interacting (HSI) proteins were transcription factors belonging to the myb and NAC gene families, HSImyb and HSINAC. Interaction occurred via the tetratricopeptide repeat domain of HvSPY and specificity was shown both in vivo and in vitro. Messenger RNAs for these proteins were expressed differentially in many parts of the barley plant but at very low levels. Both HSImyb and HSINAC inhibited the GA(3) up-regulation of alpha-amylase expression in aleurone, both were activators of transcription in yeast, and the green fluorescent protein-HSI fusion proteins were localized in the nucleus. These results are consistent with the model that HSI transcription factors act downstream of HvSPY as negative regulators and that they in turn could activate other negative regulators, forming the HvSPY negative regulator-signaling pathway for GA response.
We have identified the barley gene and cDNA encoding the plastid phage-type RNA polymerase (RNAP), nuclear-encoded plastid RNAP (RpoTp), and the nearly full-length cDNA of the mitochondrial RNAP, nuclear-encoded mitochondrial RNAP (RpoTm). RpoTp spans more than 9000 nt, consists of 19 exons and 18 introns, gives rise to a 3632-nt mRNA and is localized to the long arm of chromosome 1 (7H). The length of the deduced polypeptide is 948 residues. The mRNA levels of RpoTp and RpoTm were determined in roots and primary leaf sections of 7-day-old barley seedlings of the albostrians mutant, which were either phenotypically normal and exhibited a gradient of chloroplast development, or contained ribosome-deficient undifferentiated plastids. Transcript levels of RpoTp and RpoTm in almost all sections reached higher concentrations in plastid ribosome-deficient leaves than in the wild-type material, except in the most basal part of the leaf. These data indicate a role of plastid-to-nucleus signalling in the expression of the two RpoT genes. The mRNA levels of the plastid genes, beta-subunit of plastid-encoded RNAP (rpoB), proteolytic subunit of the Clp protease (clpP) and ribosomal protein Rpl2 (rpl2), all known to be transcribed by the nuclear-encoded RNAP (NEP), followed closely the pattern of RpoTp mRNA accumulation, strongly suggesting that RpoTp and NEP are identical. Transcripts of RpoTm and RpoTm-transcribed mitochondrial genes cytochrome oxidase subunit 2 (coxII) and ATPase subunit 9 (atp9) accumulated to the highest levels in the most basal parts of the leaf and declined considerably towards the leaf tip with a pronounced reduction in green versus white leaves. Our data revealed a marked influence of the developmental stage of the plastid on the expression and activity of organellar phage-type RNAPs and their target genes. Thus, interorganellar cross-talk in the regulated expression of nuclear-encoded plastid and mitochondrial RNAP genes might be a key element governing the concerted expression of genes located within plastids, mitochondria and the nucleus of the plant cell.
In the establishment of the legume-rhizobial symbiosis, bacterial lipochitooligosaccharide signaling molecules termed Nod factors activate the formation of a novel root organ, the nodule. Nod factors elicit several responses in plant root hair cells, including oscillations in cytoplasmic calcium levels (termed calcium spiking) and alterations in root hair growth. A number of plant mutants with defects in the Nod factor signaling pathway have been identified. One such Medicago truncatula mutant, dmi3, exhibits calcium spiking and root hair swelling in response to Nod factor, but fails to initiate symbiotic gene expression or cell divisions for nodule formation. On the basis of these data, it is thought that the dmi3 mutant perceives Nod factor but fails to transduce the signal downstream of calcium spiking. Additionally, the dmi3 mutant is defective in the symbiosis with mycorrhizal fungi, indicating the importance of the encoded protein in multiple symbioses. We report the identification of the DMI3 gene, using a gene cloning method based on transcript abundance. We show that transcript-based cloning is a valid approach for cloning genes in barley, indicating the value of this technology in crop plants. DMI3 encodes a calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase. Mutants in pea sym9 have phenotypes similar to dmi3 and have alterations in this gene. The DMI3 class of proteins is well conserved among plants that interact with mycorrhizal fungi, but it is less conserved in Arabidopsis thaliana, which does not participate in the mycorrhizal symbiosis.
Retrotransposons are major, dispersed components of most eukaryotic genomes. They replicate by a cycle of transcription, reverse transcription, and integration of new copies, without excising from the genome in the process. Because they represent a major share of the genome, cause easily detectable genetic changes having known ancestral and derived states, and contain conserved regions for which polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers may be designed, retrotransposon insertions can be exploited as powerful molecular marker systems. Here, we describe the background and strategies, as well as give detailed laboratory protocols, for four key retrotransposon-based methods: SSAP, IRAP, REMAP, and RBIP. The SSAP, IRAP, and REMAP methods are multiplex and generate anonymous marker bands; RBIP scores individual loci, much as microsatellite-based marker systems do. The methods are variously suited to marker detection on agarose and polyacrylamide slab gels, slab and capillary sequencing devices, and arrays on solid supports. The different strengths and weaknesses of these approaches and their performance relative to conventional marker methods are discussed, together with their applicability to marker-assisted breeding, phylogenetic analyses, biodiversity determinations, and evolutionary studies.
Hordeum chilense is a wild relative of H. vulgare, cultivated barley, that has been successfully used in the synthesis of amphiploids by crossing with Triticum spp. These amphiploids-named generically x Tritordeum-have been tested under field conditions, and one of them, the hexaploid tritordeum obtained following chromosome doubling of the hybrid H. chilense x T. turgidum, shows traits of interest inherited from the barley parent. Of great interest is the allelic variation observed in the endosperm storage proteins and their influence on the breadmaking and malting quality of tritordeum. We report here two mRNA (cDNA) sequences for a gamma-3 hordein from two accession lines of H. chilense, H1 and H7, and their characterization by quantitative real time (QRT)-PCR in the developing endosperm. Sequences were obtained by rapid amplification of cDNA ends and "edge-to-edge" amplification of open reading frames from cDNA of H. chilense. Eight putative single nucleotide polymorphisms and one codon insertion were identified in the sequences of the H1 and H7 gamma-3 hordeins. The deduced amino acid sequences showed similar features to that of the gamma-3 hordein and gamma-gliadins from barley and wheat, respectively. While the repetitive motif (PQQQPF) is similar to that of the gamma-3 hordein from H. vulgare, there are 19 motif repeats in H. vulgare, whereas H. chilense shows 15 tandem repeats. The transcription of the genes encoding for the gamma-3 hordein were monitored by QRT-PCR: in both lines maximum transcription occurred 12 days after flowering.
Apetala2/ethylene-responsive factor (AP2/ERF) proteins are AP2 domain-containing transcription factors and form the second largest transcription factor family in plants. Biological functions of many of these AP2 proteins are still unknown. Here, we report the characterisation of a novel member of the AP2/ERF superfamily, dehydration-responsive factor 1 (HvDRF1) from barley, and its role in abscisic acid (ABA)-mediated gene regulation. The expression of HvDRF1 was upregulated in barley leaves and roots under drought, salt or ABA treatment, and in embryos during seed maturation. Three forms of HvDRF1 transcripts were produced through alternative splicing, two of which encoded AP2 proteins. This alternative splicing pattern was also observed in a wheat homologue gene, TaDRF1. Both of HvDRF1 AP2 proteins acted as transcriptional activators, capable of activating the promoter activity of an ABA-inducible HVA1s in barley. In vitro DNA-binding analysis using synthetic oligonucleotides revealed that HvDRF1 AP2 protein bound preferably to a CT-rich element (T(T/A)ACCGCCTT). HvDRF1 activity on the activation of HVA1s expression in barley leaves was markedly enhanced by HvABI5 (a bZIP transcription factor), ABA or drought treatment. These results indicate that the HvDRF1 transcriptional activator co-operates with other ABA-responsive factors in the upregulation of stress gene expression through an ABA-dependent pathway.
SURE (sugar responsive) is a cis element in plant sugar signaling. The SURE element was reported first for potato, in which it confers sugar responsiveness to the patatin promoter. A SURE binding transcription factor has not been isolated. We have isolated a transcription factor cDNA from barley and purified the corresponding protein. The transcription factor, SUSIBA2 (sugar signaling in barley), belongs to the WRKY proteins and was shown to bind to SURE and W-box elements but not to the SP8a element in the iso1 promoter. Nuclear localization of SUSIBA2 was demonstrated in a transient assay system with a SUSIBA2:green fluorescent protein fusion protein. Exploiting the novel transcription factor oligodeoxynucleotide decoy strategy with transformed barley endosperm provided experimental evidence for the importance of the SURE elements in iso1 transcription. Antibodies against SUSIBA2 were produced, and the expression pattern for susiba2 was determined at the RNA and protein levels. It was found that susiba2 is expressed in endosperm but not in leaves. Transcription of susiba2 is sugar inducible, and ectopic susiba2 expression was obtained in sugar-treated leaves. Likewise, binding to SURE elements was observed for nuclear extracts from sugar-treated but not from control barley leaves. The temporal expression of susiba2 in barley endosperm followed that of iso1 and endogenous sucrose levels, with a peak at approximately 12 days after pollination. Our data indicate that SUSIBA2 binds to the SURE elements in the barley iso1 promoter as an activator. Furthermore, they show that SUSIBA2 is a regulatory transcription factor in starch synthesis and demonstrate the involvement of a WRKY protein in carbohydrate anabolism. Orthologs to SUSIBA2 were isolated from rice and wheat endosperm.
Our understanding of proanthocyanidin (syn. condensed tannin) synthesis has been recently extended by substantial developments concerning both structural and regulatory genes. A gene encoding leucoanthocyanidin reductase has been obtained from the tropical forage, Desmodium uncinatum, with the latter enzyme catalyzing formation of (+)-catechin. The BANYULS gene in Arabidopsis thaliana, previously proposed to encode leucoanthocyanidin reductase or to regulate proanthocyanidin biosynthesis, has been shown instead to encode anthocyanidin reductase, which in turn converts anthocyanidins (pelargonidin, cyanidin, or delphinidin) into 2,3-cis-2R,3R-flavan-3-ols (respectively, (-)-epiafzelechin, (-)-epicatechin and (-)-epigallocatechin). However, the enzyme which catalyzes the polymerization reaction remains unknown. Nevertheless, a vacuolar transmembrane protein TT12, defined by the Arabidopsis tt12 mutant, is involved in transport of proanthocyanidin polymer into the vacuole for accumulation. Six different types of regulatory elements, e.g. TFIIIA-like, WD-40-like, WRKY-like, MADS-box-like, myb-like, and bHLH (myc-like), have been cloned and identified using mutants from Arabidopsis (tt1, ttg1, ttg2, tt2, tt16, tt2, tt8) and two other species (Hordeum vulgare [ant13] and Lotus spp [tan1]). Accordingly, increases in proanthocyanidin levels have been induced in the the world's major forage, alfalfa. These advances may now lead to a detailed understanding of how PA synthesis is controlled and to useful alterations in proanthocyanidin concentration for the improvement of forage species, pulses, and other crop plants.
The molecular genetics of vernalization, defined as the promotion of flowering by cold treatment, is still poorly understood in cereals. To better understand this mechanism, we cloned and characterized a gene that we named TaVRT-1 (wheat [Triticum aestivum] vegetative to reproductive transition-1). Molecular and sequence analyses indicated that this gene encodes a protein homologous to the MADS-box family of transcription factors that comprises certain flowering control proteins in Arabidopsis. Mapping studies have localized this gene to the Vrn-1 regions on the long arms of homeologous group 5 chromosomes, regions that are associated with vernalization and freezing tolerance (FT) in wheat. The level of expression of TaVRT-1 is positively associated with the vernalization response and transition from vegetative to reproductive phase and is negatively associated with the accumulation of COR genes and degree of FT. Comparisons among different wheat genotypes, near-isogenic lines, and cereal species, which differ in their vernalization response and FT, indicated that the gene is inducible only in those species that require vernalization, whereas it is constitutively expressed in spring habit genotypes. In addition, experiments using both the photoperiod-sensitive barley (Hordeum vulgare cv Dicktoo) and short or long day de-acclimated wheat revealed that the expression of TaVRT-1 is also regulated by photoperiod. These expression studies indicate that photoperiod and vernalization may regulate this gene through separate pathways. We suggest that TaVRT-1 is a key developmental gene in the regulatory pathway that controls the transition from the vegetative to reproductive phase in cereals.
The expression pattern and level of light-regulated genes are controlled by complex regulatory networks. Expression of genes encoding chlorophyll a/b-binding proteins of photosystem II is controlled by different photoreceptors and regulated primarily at the level of transcription. Light-dependent transcription of these genes is further modulated by the circadian system, affected by a developmental program and by a variety of environmental factors such as stress. Here we report the isolation of two Myb-like transcription factors from barley, HvMCB1 and HvMCB2, that bind specifically to defined regions of CAB promoters derived from wheat and barley. Deletion and mutation analysis of the wheat CAB1 promoter suggest that HvMCB1 and HvMCB2 are required for high-level but not for light- and circadian clock-regulated expression. Moreover, we demonstrate that the induction of HvMCB1 and HvMCB2 transcription is regulated differentially by environmental factors and plastid development. These observations indicate that HvMCB1 and HvMCB2, together with other, yet unknown regulatory factors, may mediate responsiveness of CAB gene transcription to a variety of environmental and developmental signals.
Nicotianamine (NA), a chelator of metals, is ubiquitously present in higher plants. Nicotianamine aminotransferase (NAAT) catalyzes the amino group transfer of NA in the biosynthetic pathway of phytosiderophores and is essential for iron acquisition in graminaceous plants. The gene that encodes NAAT from barley was introduced into the nongraminaceous plant tobacco, which produces NA but not phytosiderophores. Transgenic tobacco plants (naat tobacco) that constitutively expressed the NAAT gene had young leaves with interveinal chlorosis and flowers that were abnormally shaped and sterile. Endogenous NA was consumed as a result of NAAT overproduction in naat tobacco. The resulting NA shortage caused disorders in internal metal transport, leading to these abnormal phenotypes. In addition to its role in long-distance metal transport, NA may be involved in the regulation of metal transfer within the cells. These results suggest that a shortage of NA impaired the functions of metal-requiring proteins, including transcription factors.
One of the major factors determining the incidence of Barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) on autumn-sown cereals is the viruliferous state of immigrant winged aphids. This variable is assessed routinely using the enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA). However, the threshold for virus detection by ELISA can lead to false negative results for aphids carrying less than 10(6) particles. Although molecular detection techniques enabling the detection of lower virus quantities in samples are available, the relatively laborious sample preparation and data analysis have restricted their use in routine applications. A gel-free real-time one-step reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) protocol is described for specific detection and quantitation of BYDV-PAV, the most widespread BYDV species in Western Europe. This new assay, based on TaqMan technology, detects and quantifies from 10(2) to 10(8) BYDV-PAV RNA copies. This test is 10 and 10(3) times more sensitive than the standard RT-PCR and ELISA assays published previously for BYDV-PAV detection and significantly improves virus detection in single aphids. Extraction of nucleic acids from aphids using either phenol/chloroform or chelatin resin-based protocols allow the use of pooled samples or of a small part (up to 1/1600th) of a single aphid extract for efficient BYDV-PAV detection.
The CO (CONSTANS) gene of Arabidopsis has an important role in the regulation of flowering by photoperiod. CO is part of a gene family with 17 members that are subdivided into three classes, termed Group I to III here. All members of the family have a CCT (CO, CO-like, TOC1) domain near the carboxy terminus. Group I genes, which include CO, have two zinc finger B-boxes near the amino terminus. Group II genes have one B-box, and Group III genes have one B-box and a second diverged zinc finger. Analysis of rice (Oryza sativa) genomic sequence identified 16 genes (OsA-OsP) that were also divided into these three groups, showing that their evolution predates monocot/dicot divergence. Eight Group I genes (HvCO1-HvCO8) were isolated from barley (Hordeum vulgare), of which two (HvCO1 and HvCO2) were highly CO like. HvCO3 and its rice counterpart (OsB) had one B-box that was distantly related to Group II genes and was probably derived by internal deletion of a two B-box Group I gene. Sequence homology and comparative mapping showed that HvCO1 was the counterpart of OsA (Hd1), a major determinant of photoperiod sensitivity in rice. Major genes determining photoperiod response have been mapped in barley and wheat (Triticum aestivum), but none corresponded to CO-like genes. Thus, selection for variation in photoperiod response has affected different genes in rice and temperate cereals. The peptides of HvCO1, HvCO2 (barley), and Hd1 (rice) show significant structural differences from CO, particularly amino acid changes that are predicted to abolish B-box2 function, suggesting an evolutionary trend toward a one-B-box structure in the most CO-like cereal genes.
Germinated barley foodstuff (GBF), which contains glutamine-rich protein and hemicellulose-rich fiber, exhibits therapeutic effects in ulcerative colitis; however, its mechanism is still under investigation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the anti-inflammatory effects of GBF on colitis in terms of the epithelial inflammatory response. Mice with dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis were used. The effects of GBF on the colitis were evaluated by measuring the body weight; disease activity; mucosal damage (histology, mucosal inflammatory parameters, nuclear factor kappa B [NFkB] activation, and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 [STAT3]); serum interleukin 6 (IL-6) level; cecal short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs); and bile acid contents. GBF significantly prevented disease activity and body weight loss after induction of colitis. Serum IL-6 level and mucosal STAT3 expression were also significantly attenuated, with a conspicuous reduction of mucosal damage; NFkB activity showed the same tendency. Cecal butyrate content was significantly higher and, interestingly, GBF mice had lower bile acid concentrations than the control group. GBF has the potential to reduce the epithelial inflammatory response by depressing STAT-3 expression and inhibiting NFkB binding activity. These effects may be brought about by an increase of butyrate production and adsorption of bile acids.
GAMYB is a gibberellin (GA)-regulated activator of hydrolase gene expression in the aleurone layer of germinating cereal grains. Although it is clear that GAMYB expression is regulated by GA, more remains to be understood about how this transcription factor operates within the GA-response pathway. In order to isolate new components from the GA-response pathway, barley aleurone libraries were screened for GAMYB-binding proteins using a recently developed yeast two-hybrid system, which is compatible with the use of transcription factors as baits. We isolated a new member of the emerging Mak-subgroup of cdc2- and MAP kinase-related protein kinases. We have termed this GAMYB-binding protein KGM (for kinase associated with GAMYB). Transient expression of KGM specifically repressed alpha-amylase promoter activity at the level of GAMYB function but a mutation designed to de-stabilise the activation loop of KGM alleviated this repression. We propose that KGM is a negative regulator of GAMYB function in aleurone that may prevent precocious hydrolase gene expression.
HvGAMYB is a transcription factor that was first identified in barley aleurone cells and shown to be upregulated by gibberellin (GA). Using RNA and immunoblot analysis we have shown HvGAMYB is also strongly expressed in barley anthers. Transgenic barley expressing a HvGAMYB:GFP fusion gene have been created and GAMYB expression in anthers analysed. GFP expression was clearly visible during early anther development in the nuclei of the epidermis, endothecium, middle layer and tapetum. Expression in the epidermis and endothecium persists until just prior to anther dehiscence, expression in the other two cell layers is visible until they are compressed and broken down as the microspores develop. Further evidence of a role for HvGAMYB in anther development was provided by the creation of transgenic barley over-expressing the HvGAMYB gene. Associated with the increase in HvGAMYB levels was a progressive decrease in anther size, particularly a decrease in anther length. Anthers also became increasingly lighter in colour. Anthers with fourfold more HvGAMYB protein than non-transgenic controls failed to dehisce and were male sterile, anthers with approximately three to fourfold endogenous GAMYB protein levels were smaller and paler but still shed normally. To investigate the hormonal regulation of HvGAMYB expression in anthers, HvGAMYB and SLN1 protein levels in anthers were analysed following application of GA3. As in cereal aleurone, HvGAMYB levels were found to increase and SLN1 levels decrease following GA3 application suggesting a similar GA-signalling pathway to that in aleurone exists in anthers.
Candidate genes involved in both recognition (resistance gene analogs [RGAs]) and general plant defense (putative defense response [DR]) were used as molecular markers to test for association with resistance in rice to blast, bacterial blight (BB), sheath blight, and brown plant-hopper (BPH). The 118 marker loci were either polymerase chain reaction-based RGA markers or restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers that included RGAs or putative DR genes from rice, barley, and maize. The markers were placed on an existing RFLP map generated from a mapping population of 116 doubled haploid (DH) lines derived from a cross between an improved indica rice cultivar, IR64, and a traditional japonica cultivar, Azucena. Most of the RGAs and DR genes detected a single locus with variable copy number and mapped on different chromosomes. Clusters of RGAs were observed, most notably on chromosome 11 where many known blast and BB resistance genes and quantitative trait loci (QTL) for blast, BB, sheath blight, and BPH were located. Major resistance genes and QTL for blast and BB resistance located on different chromosomes were associated with several candidate genes. Six putative QTL for BB were located on chromosomes 2, 3, 5, 7, and 8 and nine QTL for BPH resistance were located to chromosomes 3, 4, 6, 11, and 12. The alleles of QTL for BPH resistance were mostly from IR64 and each explained between 11.3 and 20.6% of the phenotypic variance. The alleles for BB resistance were only from the Azucena parent and each explained at least 8.4% of the variation. Several candidate RGA and DR gene markers were associated with QTL from the pathogens and pest. Several RGAs were mapped to BB QTL. Dihydrofolate reductase thymidylate synthase co-localized with two BPH QTL associated with plant response to feeding and also to blast QTL. Blast QTL also were associated with aldose reductase, oxalate oxidase, JAMyb (a jasmonic acid-induced Myb transcription factor), and peroxidase markers. The frame map provides reference points to select candidate genes for cosegregation analysis using other mapping populations, isogenic lines, and mutants.
An HvCBF2 cDNA was isolated from barley leaves. It encoded a protein containing an AP2 DNA-binding domain homologous to C-repeat (CRT)/dehydration-responsive element (DRE) binding factors (CBF/DREB1). In contrast to the previously reported cold-inducible CBF/DREB1 genes, HvCBF2 was expressed in barley leaves under non-stress conditions. Only a transient increase in the HvCBF2 transcript level was observed during cold treatment. Transactivation analysis showed that HvCBF2 was a transcriptional activator, capable of activating expression of a reporter gene driven by a low-temperature and drought-responsive HVA1s promoter in barley leaves. The activity of HvCBF2 as a transcriptional activator was upregulated by low temperature. DNA-binding analysis revealed that HvCBF2 did not bind to the CRT/DRE motif at 30 degrees C. A low, but detectable, binding activity was observed at 25 degrees C and the binding activity gradually increased as the temperature decreased. The binding activity at 0 degrees C was the highest and more than 10 times higher than that at 25 degrees C. The activation and inactivation of HvCBF2 activity were reversible and were achieved in a cell-free system simply by temperature change. Analysis of the binding sequence showed that HvCBF2 bound to a (G/a)(T/c)CGAC core motif, where the lower-case letters are less efficient bases. These data suggest that HvCBF2 is a transcription factor interacting with the core CRT/DRE motif containing a preferred sequence of GTCGAC and its DNA-binding activity is regulated by temperature. This represents a new type of activation mechanism for transcriptional activators.
The abscisic acid (ABA) response promoter complexes (ABRCs) of the HVA1 and HVA22 genes have been shown to confer ABA-induced gene expression in cereals. A barley basic domain/Leu zipper (bZIP) transcription factor, HvABI5, is able to recognize ABRCs in vitro in a sequence-specific manner and to transactivate ABRC-beta-glucuronidase reporter genes when introduced to barley aleurone cells via particle bombardment. This transactivation is dependent on the presence of another transcription factor, HvVP1, and cannot be blocked by the negative regulator abi1-1. Using the double-stranded RNA interference technique, we show that HvABI5 and HvVP1 are necessary for the ABA induction of gene expression but have no effect on another hormone-regulated process, the gibberellin-induced and ABA-suppressed expression of alpha-amylase. Our work indicates that although other typical plant bZIP transcription factors may bind ABRCs in vitro, HvABI5 is related to a subfamily of bZIPs responsible for the ABA induction of gene expression. Furthermore, HvABI5 and HvVP1 are not involved in the ABA suppression of gene expression.
Expression of the plastid rRNA operon (rrn) during development is highly regulated at the level of transcription. The plastid rrn operon in most higher plants is transcribed by the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase (PEP), the multisubunit plastid RNA polymerase from PrrnP1, a sigma(70)-type promoter with conserved -10 and -35 core promoter elements. To identify functionally important sequences, the tobacco PrrnP1 was dissected in vivo and in vitro. Based on in vivo deletion analysis, sequences upstream of nucleotide -83 do not significantly contribute to promoter function. The in vitro analyses identified an essential hexameric sequence upstream of the -35 element (GTGGGA; the rRNA operon upstream activator [RUA]) that is conserved in monocot and dicot species and suggested that the -10 element plays only a limited role in PrrnP1 recognition. Mutations in the initial transcribed sequence (+9 to +14) enhanced transcription, the characteristic of strong promoters in prokaryotes. We propose that sigma interaction with the -10 element in PrrnP1 is replaced in part by direct PEP-RUA (protein-DNA) interaction or by protein-protein interaction between the PEP and an RUA binding transcription factor.
Genes from the SNF2 family play important roles in transcriptional regulation, maintenance of chromosome integrity and DNA repair. This study describes the molecular cloning and characterization of cereal genes from this family. The predicted proteins exhibit a novel C-terminal domain that defines a new subfamily designated SNF2P that includes human and mouse proteins. Comparison between genomic and cDNA sequences showed that cereal Snf2P genes consisted of 17 exons, including one only 8 bp long. Two barley alleles differed by the presence of a 7.7-kb non-LTR retrotransposon in intron 6. An alternative annotation of the orthologous Arabidopsis gene would improve its similarity with the other members of the subfamily. Intron 2 was not spliced out in approximately half of the rice Snf2P mRNAs present in leaves, resulting in a premature stop codon. Transcripts from the barley and wheat Snf2P genes were found in apexes, leaves, sheaths, roots and spikes. The Snf2P genes exist as single copies on wheat chromosome arm 5A(m)L and in the colinear regions on barley chromosome arm 4HL and rice chromosome 3. High-density genetic mapping and RT-PCR suggest that Snf2P is not a candidate gene for the tightly linked vernalization gene Vrn2.
We describe a highly efficient two-step single-cell reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction technique for analyzing gene expression at the single-cell level. Good reproducibility and a linear dose response indicated that the technique has high specificity and sensitivity for detection and quantification of rare RNA. Actin could be used as an internal standard. The expression of message for Rubisco small subunit (RbcS), chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (Cab), sucrose (Suc):fructan-6-fructosyl transferase (6-SFT), and Actin were measured in individual photosynthetic cells of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) leaf. Only Actin was found in the non-photosynthetic epidermal cells. Cab, RbcS, and 6-SFT genes were expressed at a low level in mesophyll and parenchymatous bundle sheath (BS) cells when sampled from plants held in dark for 40 h. Expression increased considerably after illumination. The amount of 6-SFT, Cab, and RbcS transcript increased more in mesophyll cells than in the parenchymatous BS cells. The difference may be caused by different chloroplast structure and posttranscriptional control in mesophyll and BS cells. When similar single-cell samples were assayed for Suc, glucose, and fructan, there was high correlation between 6-SFT gene expression and Suc and glucose concentrations. This is consistent with Suc concentration being the trigger for transcription. Together with earlier demonstrations that the mesophyll cells have a higher sugar threshold for fructan polymerization, our data may indicate separate control of transcription and enzyme activity. Values for the sugar concentrations of the individual cell types are reported.
Expression of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) HVA22 gene is induced by environmental stresses, such as dehydration, salinity, and extreme temperatures, and by a plant stress hormone, abscisic acid. Genes sharing high level of sequence similarities with HVA22 exist in diverse eukaryotic organisms, including animals, plants, and fungi, but not in any prokaryotic organisms. The yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) HVA22 homolog, Yop1p, has been shown to interact with the GTPase-interacting protein, Yip1p. Deletion of YOP1 led to only a modest reduction of the stationary phase titer at 37C. A synthetic enhancement mutant screen was performed in the yop1 deletion background to identify genes interacting with YOP1. The open reading frame YOR165W (renamed SEY1 for synthetic enhancement of YOP1) was identified as a YOP1-dependent complementation gene. The yeast SEY1 is a homolog of the Arabidopsis RHD3 gene whose mutations cause the accumulation of transport vesicles near the tips of defective root hairs. The yeast double mutant of yop1 and sey1 is defective in vesicular traffic as evidenced by the accumulation of transport vesicles and the decrease in invertase secretion. Based on these observations, we suggest that Yop1p/HVA22 regulates vesicular traffic in stressed cells either to facilitate membrane turnover, or to decrease unnecessary secretion.
Functional analyses of a number of hydrolase gene promoters, induced by gibberellin (GA) in aleurone cells following germination, have identified a GA-responsive complex as a tripartite element containing a pyrimidine box motif 5'-CCTTTT-3'. We describe here that BPBF, a barley (Hordeum vulgare) transcription factor of the DOF (DNA-Binding with One Finger) class, previously shown to be an activator of reserve protein encoding genes during development, also has a role in the control of hydrolase genes following seed germination. Northern-blot, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, and in situ hybridization analyses evidenced that the transcripts of the BPBF-encoding gene (Pbf), besides being present during endosperm development, are also expressed in aleurone cells of germinated seeds where they are induced by GA, an effect counteracted by abscisic acid. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays have shown that the BPBF protein binds specifically to the pyrimidine box motif in vitro within the different sequence contexts that naturally occur in the promoters of genes encoding a cathepsin B-like protease (Al21) and a low-isoelectric point alpha-amylase (Amy2/32b), both induced in the aleurone layers in response to GA. In transient expression experiments, BPBF repressed transcription of the Al21 promoter in GA-treated barley aleurone layers and reverted the GAMYB-mediated activation of this protease promoter.
The interaction between two phytohormones, gibberellins (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA), is an important factor regulating the developmental transition from seed dormancy to germination. In cereal aleurone tissue, GA induces and ABA suppresses the expression of alpha-amylases that are essential for the utilization of starch stored in the endosperm. In this work, the signaling pathways mediated by these hormones were investigated in the aleurone cells of barley seeds using double-stranded RNA interference (RNAi) technology. In this tissue, double-stranded RNA molecules generated from the transient expression of DNA templates caused a sequence-specific suppression of the target genes. We demonstrate that the transcription factor, GAMyb, is not only sufficient but also necessary for the GA induction of alpha-amylase. Another regulatory protein, SLN1, is shown to be a repressor of GA action, and the use of RNAi technology to inhibit the synthesis of SLN1 led to derepression of alpha-amylase even in the absence of GA. However, this effect still was suppressed by ABA. Although the ABA-induced Ser/Thr protein kinase, PKABA1, is known to suppress GA-induced alpha-amylase expression, PKABA1 RNAi did not hamper the inhibitory effect of ABA on the expression of alpha-amylase, indicating that a PKABA1-independent signaling pathway also may exist. We suggest that the generation of specific RNAi in a transient expression approach is a useful technique for elucidating the role of regulatory molecules in biological systems in which conventional mutational studies cannot be performed easily.
Although cold and drought adaptation in cereals and other plants involve the induction of a large number of genes, inheritance studies in Triticeae (wheat [Triticum aestivum], barley [Hordeum vulgare], and rye [Secale cereale]) have revealed only a few major loci for frost or drought tolerance that are consistent across multiple genetic backgrounds and environments. One might imagine that these loci could encode highly conserved regulatory factors that have global effects on gene expression; therefore, genes encoding central regulators identified in other plants might be orthologs of these Triticeae stress tolerance genes. The CBF/DREB1 regulators, identified originally in Arabidopsis as key components of cold and drought regulation, merit this consideration. We constructed barley cDNA libraries, screened these libraries and a barley bacterial artificial chromosome library using rice (Oryza sativa) and barley Cbf probes, found orthologs of Arabidopsis CBF/DREB1 genes, and examined the expression and genetic map location of the barley Cbf3 gene, HvCbf3. HvCbf3 was induced by a chilling treatment. HvCbf3 is located on barley chromosome 5H between markers WG364b and saflp58 on the barley cv Dicktoo x barley cv Morex genetic linkage map. This position is some 40 to 50 cM proximal to the winter hardiness quantitative trait locus that includes the Vrn-1H gene, but may coincide with the wheat 5A Rcg1 locus, which governs the threshold temperature at which cor genes are induced. From this, it remains possible that HvCbf3 is the basis of a minor quantitative trait locus in some genetic backgrounds, though that possibility remains to be thoroughly explored.
The expression of alpha-amylase genes in cereals is induced by both gibberellin (GA) and sugar starvation. All alpha-amylase genes isolated from cereals contain a TATCCA element or its variants at positions approximately 90 to 150 bp upstream of the transcription start sites. The TATCCA element was shown previously to be an important component of the GA response complex and the sugar response complex of alpha-amylase gene promoters. In the present study, three cDNA clones encoding novel MYB proteins with single DNA binding domains were isolated from a rice suspension cell cDNA library and designated OsMYBS1, OsMYBS2, and OsMYBS3. Gel mobility shift experiments with OsMYBSs showed that they bind specifically to the TATCCA element in vitro. Yeast one-hybrid experiments demonstrated that OsMYBS1 and OsMYBS2 bind to the TATCCA element and transactivate a promoter containing the TATCCA element in vivo. Transient expression assays with barley half-seeds showed that OsMYBS1 and OsMYBS2 transactivate a promoter containing the TATCCA element when sugar is provided, whereas OsMYBS3 represses transcription of the same promoter under sugar starvation. Transient expression assays also showed that these three OsMYBSs cooperate with a GA-regulated transcription factor, HvMYBGa, in the transactivation of a low-pI barley alpha-amylase gene promoter in the absence of GA. Two-hybrid experiments with barley half-seeds showed that OsMYBS1 is able to form a homodimer. The present study demonstrates that differential DNA binding affinity, promoter transactivation ability, dimerization, and interactions with other protein factors determine the biological function of OsMYBSs. This study also suggests that common transcription factors are involved in the sugar and hormonal regulation of alpha-amylase gene expression in cereals.
A HvCBF1 cDNA encoding an AP2 domain-containing protein was isolated from barley leaves. Expression of HvCBF1 was induced in barley leaves by exposure to a low temperature (2 degrees C), but not by drought or abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. Functional analysis showed that HvCBF1 was a transcriptional activator, capable of activating expression of reporter genes driven by a cold- and drought-responsive HVA1s promoter in barley leaves. Transactivation analysis of HvCBF1 on a number of synthetic oligonucleotides containing potential C-repeat (CRT)/dehydration-responsive element (DRE) derived from cold-responsive barley genes revealed that HvCBF1 interacted much more efficiently with a GCCGAC motif than a previously identified barley low-temperature-responsive element (LTRE), CCGAAA. A detailed base-substitution mutagenesis study revealed that only the CGAC sequence of the GCCGAC motif was highly conserved for interacting with HvCBF1. The promoter activity of the mutant motifs, ACCGAC and GTCGAC, was 36% and 75% of that of the GCCGAC motif, respectively. The base composition surrounding the GCCGAC motif also had a significant effect on the efficiency of the motif. These data suggest that barley HvCBF1 protein interacts with the (G/a)(C/t)CGAC motif and is involved in regulation of cold-responsive genes in barley via an ABA-independent signal transduction pathway.
A rapid and quantitative DNA-binding assay was developed based on the translational fusion of a DNA-binding protein (DBP) with a Neocallimastix patriciarum beta-1,4-D-glucanase, CelD. CelD releases a fluorescent 4-methylumbelliferyl product from 4-methylumbelliferyl cellobioside. This hydrolysis activity was used to quantify the amount of DBP-CelD bound to an immobilised biotin-labelled target sequence. The DNA-binding assay can be performed in a 96-well plate format for high- throughput analysis of putative DBPs. This method was applied to analysis of the binding properties and sequence selectivity of a cold-inducible transcription factor HvCBF1 from barley containing an AP2 DNA-binding domain. A base-scanning approach using degenerate oligonucleotide probes was employed for rapid identification of the conserved core motif of the HvCBF1 binding site. Quantitative analysis of the binding site of HvCBF1 using systematic base substitution revealed that a (G/a) (C/t)CGAC sequence was sufficient to constitute a functional motif, where the lower-case letters represent less efficient bases. The method enables us to provide accurate and quantitative data on a comprehensive DNA-binding profile for a cold-inducible AP2 transcription factor as well as information on environmental parameters potentially influencing the DNA-binding activity. The accurate binding sequence data facilitate identification of candidate genes regulated by HvCBF1 from genome sequence databases.
Plant disease resistance (R) genes mediate specific pathogen recognition, leading to a successful immune response. Downstream responses include ion fluxes, an oxidative burst, transcriptional reprogramming, and, in many cases, hypersensitive cell death at the infection site. We used a transgenic Arabidopsis line carrying the bacterial avirulence gene avrRpm1 under the control of a steroid-inducible promoter to select for mutations in genes required for RPM1-mediated recognition and signal transduction. We identified an allelic series of eight mutants that also were allelic to the previously identified pbs2 mutation. Positional cloning revealed this gene to be AtRAR1, the Arabidopsis ortholog of barley RAR1, a known mediator of R function. AtRAR1 is required for both full hypersensitive cell death and complete disease resistance mediated by many, but not all, tested R genes. Double mutant analysis of Atrar1 in combination with the R signal intermediate ndr1 suggests that AtRAR1 and NDR1 can operate in both linear and parallel signaling events, depending on the R gene function triggered. In Atrar1 null plants, the levels of RPM1-myc are reduced severely, suggesting that AtRAR1 may regulate R protein stability or accumulation.
We have previously identified GAMYB, a gibberellin (GA)-regulated transcriptional activator of alpha-amylase gene expression, in aleurone cells of barley (Hordeum vulgare). To examine the regulation of GAMYB expression, we describe the use of nuclear run-on experiments to show that GA causes a 2-fold increase in the rate of GAMYB transcription and that the effect of GA can be blocked by abscisic acid (ABA). To identify GA-signaling components that regulate GAMYB expression, we examined the role of SLN1, a negative regulator of GA signaling in barley. SLN1, which is the product of the Sln1 (Slender1) locus, is necessary for repression of GAMYB in barley aleurone cells. The activity of SLN1 in aleurone cells is regulated posttranslationally. SLN1 protein levels decline rapidly in response to GA before any increase in GAMYB levels. Green fluorescent protein-SLN1 fusion protein was targeted to the nucleus of aleurone protoplasts and disappeared in response to GA. Evidence from a dominant dwarf mutant at Sln1, and from the gse1 mutant (that affects GA "sensitivity"), indicates that GA acts by regulating SLN1 degradation and not translation. Mutation of the DELLA region of SLN1 results in increased protein stability in GA-treated layers, indicating that the DELLA region plays an important role in GA-induced degradation of SLN1. Unlike GA, ABA had no effect on SLN1 stability, confirming that ABA acts downstream of SLN1 to block GA signaling.
A dominant dwarf mutant of barley (Hordeum vulgare) that resembles dominant gibberellin (GA) "-insensitive" or "-nonresponsive" mutants in other species is described. alpha-Amylase production by endosperm half-grains of the mutant required GA3 at concentrations about 100 times that of the WT. The mutant showed only a slight growth response to GA3, even at very high concentrations. However, when additionally dwarfed, growth rate responded to GA3 over the normal concentration range, although only back to the original (dwarf) elongation rate. Genetic studies indicated that the dominant dwarf locus was either closely linked or identical to the Sln1 (Slender1) locus. A barley sequence related to Arabidopsis GAI/RGA was isolated, and shown to represent the Sln1 locus by the analysis of sln1 mutants. The dominant dwarf mutant was also altered in this sequence, indicating that it too is an allele at Sln1. Thus, mutations at Sln1 generate plants of radically different phenotypes; either dwarfs that are largely dominant and GA "-insensitive/-nonresponsive," or the recessive slender types in which GA responses appear to be constitutive. Immunoblotting studies showed that in growing leaves, SLN1 protein localized almost exclusively to the leaf elongation zone. In mutants at the Sln1 locus, there were differences in both the abundance and distribution of SLN1 protein, and large changes in the amounts of bioactive GAs, and of their metabolic precursors and catabolites. These results suggest that there are dynamic interactions between SLN1 protein and GA content in determining leaf elongation rate.
Plant SNF1-related protein kinase (SnRK1) phosphorylates 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-Coenzyme A, nitrate reductase and sucrose phosphate synthase in vitro, and is required for expression of sucrose synthase in potato tubers and excised leaves. In this study, a barley (Hordeum vulgare) endosperm cDNA, SnIP1, was isolated by two-hybrid screening with barley SnRK1b, a seed-specific form of SnRK1. The protein encoded by the SnIP1 cDNA was found to interact with barley SnRK1b protein in vitro. Southern analysis suggested that barley contains a single SnIP1 gene or small gene family. SnIP1 transcripts were detected in RNA isolated from leaf, root and mid-maturation seed. Sequence similarity searches against protein, nucleotide and expressed sequence tag databases identified hitherto uncharacterized sequences related to SnIP1 from maize (Zea mays, accession number AI691404), arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana. AC079673 and AB016886) and poplar (Populus balsamifera, AI166543). No homologous sequences were identified from outside the plant kingdom, but weak sequence similarity was found between the SnIP1 peptide and yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) SNF4 and its mammalian homologue AMPKy. Nevertheless, SnIP1 failed to complement a yeast snf4 mutant. SnIP1 was found to have little overall sequence similarity with the PV42 family of SNF4-like plant proteins, but proteins of both the SnIP1 and PV42 families contain a conserved hydrophobic sequence we named the SnIP motif.
We isolated stable albino plants of barley and maize by inhibiting plastid protein synthesis with streptomycin and propagating bleached seedlings in the absence of antibiotics in vitro. Albino plants are deficient in plastid translation products and plastid ribosomal RNAs, and are stable phenocopies of the barley albostrians and maize iojap mutants, which contain ribosome-free plastids. Once plastid ribosomes are lost they cannot be re-synthesized because about one-third of plastid ribosomal proteins are themselves plastid encoded. The group II/subgroup IIA intron in plastid rpl2 transcripts was not processed in albinos, providing strong evidence for the absence of plastid translation. Photosynthesis-related plastid mRNAs and plastid tRNAs were down-regulated in albino leaves. A differential influence of plastid ribosome deficiency on mRNA levels allowed us to divide genes transcribed by nucleus-encoded plastid RNA polymerase into two groups. Northern analysis revealed increases in the levels of clpP, rpl2, rpl23, rps15 and rpoB mRNAs in total RNA from albino leaves relative to those in green leaves. In contrast, albinism did not increase the band intensities of rps2 and rps4 messages. Plastid ribosome-associated factor(s) or plastid-encoded product(s) play a role in the initiation, termination, processing or stability of transcripts containing trnG(UCC) and rps4. Excision and 100-fold amplification of a 5.2-kb region of plastid DNA encompassing the trnG(UCC) and trnE(UUC) genes was observed in one of four albino barley plants. Gene amplification was correlated with the accumulation of abundant novel transcripts derived from regions flanking the trnG(UCC) gene.
The complete sequence of a new wheat-infecting isolate of Wheat dwarf virus from Sweden (WDV-[Enk1]) was determined, as well as a 726-nt region covering part of rep and the long intergenic region (LIR) of six other wheat-infecting Swedish isolates and a barley-infecting isolate from Hungary (WDV-Bar[HU]). Analyses including these and previously published sequences showed that the wheat-infecting isolates of WDV displayed less than 3% of divergence. Most of the nucleotide changes were silent and the largest variation was detected in LIR. In contrast, the barley-infecting isolate was clearly different with 16% of sequence divergence compared to the wheat isolates. The WDV isolates infecting barley or wheat seem to represent two differentiated strains.
HvGAMYB, a MYB transcription factor previously shown to be expressed in barley aleurone cells in response to gibberellin during germination, also has an important role in gene regulation during endosperm development. The mRNA was detected early (10 DAF) in the seeds where it accumulates, not only in the aleurone layer, starchy endosperm, nucellar projection and vascular tissue, but also in the immature embryo as shown by in situ hybridization analysis. The HvGAMYB protein, expressed in bacteria, binds to oligonucleotides containing the 5'-TAACAAC-3' or 5'-CAACTAAC-3' sequences, derived from the promoter regions of the endosperm-specific genes Hor2 and Itr1, encoding a B-hordein and trypsin-inhibitor BTI-CMe, respectively. Binding is prevented when these motifs are mutated to 5'-TgACAAg-3' and 5'-CgACTgAC-3'. Transient expression experiments in co-bombarded developing endosperms demonstrate that HvGAMYB trans-activates transcription from native Hor2 and Itr1 promoters through binding to the intact motifs described above. Trans-activation of the Hor2 promoter also requires an intact prolamine box (PB). This suggests that HvGAMYB interacts in developing barley endosperms with the PB-binding factor BPBF, an endosperm-specific DOF transcriptional activator of the Hor2 gene. The in vivo interaction experiment between HvGAMYB and BPBF was done in the yeast two-hybrid system, where HvGAMYB potentiates the BPBF trans-activation capacity through interaction with its C-terminal domain.
The current model of gibberellin (GA) signal transduction is based on a derepressible system and a number of candidate negative regulators have been identified in Arabidopsis. We previously have reported the identification of the Arabidopsis gene SHORT INTERNODES (SHI) that causes suppression of GA responses when constitutively activated. In this paper, we show by using reporter gene analysis that the SHI gene is expressed in young organs, e.g. shoot apices and root tips. The model predicts a suppressor of GA responses to be active in these tissues to prevent premature growth or development. To study the effect of SHI on GA signaling, we used a functional assay that measures effects of signaling components on a well-defined GA response; the up-regulation of alpha-amylase in barley (Hordeum vulgare) aleurones in response to GA treatment. We found that SHI was able to specifically block the activity of a high-isoelectric point alpha-amylase promoter following GA(3) treatment, which further supports that SHI is a suppressor of GA responses. We have identified two putative loss-of-function insertion alleles of SHI and lines homozygous for either of the new alleles show no phenotypic deviations from wild type. Because SHI belongs to a gene family consisting of nine members, we suggest that SHI and the SHI-related genes are functionally redundant. We also show that a functional ERECTA allele is able to partly suppress the dwarfing effect of the shi gain-of-function mutation, suggesting that the erecta mutation harbored by the Landsberg erecta ecotype is an enhancer of the shi dwarf phenotype.
The transcriptional activity of NORs in a new structural mutant of barley (PK-88-4) was studied based on the positive reaction of NORs of metaphase chromosomes with AgNO3 and the number and size of silver-stained nucleoli in somatic interphase cells and meiocytes. PK-88-4 proved to contain a pericentric inversion that split NOR 7 into two unequal parts residing in the opposite arms of the reconstructed chromosome 7(5). This chromosomal rearrangement enables testing of intrachromosomal suppression of NORs and provides insight into the mechanisms of intraspecific nucleolar dominance. Both parts of the split NOR proved to be transcriptionally active, and are not subject to intrachromosomal nucleolar dominance. Thus, translocation-induced intraspecific nucleolar dominance is probably the result of interaction of NOR6 and NOR7 or other genetic factors located on the NOR-bearing chromosomes 6(6H) and 7(5H).
Abscisic acid (ABA) induces genes that are highly expressed during late embryogenesis, but suppresses gibberellin (GA)-responsive genes essential for seed germination and seedling growth. Promoter elements necessary and sufficient for ABA up- and down-regulation of gene expression have been previously defined in barley aleurone layers. We have studied the effect of a protein phosphatase 2C, ABI1, an ABA-inducible protein kinase, PKABA1, and a transcription factor, VP1, on ABA action in a barley aleurone transient expression system. The observations have allowed us to dissect ABA signal transduction pathways leading to either induction or suppression of gene expression. The ABA induction of embryogenesis genes is highly inhibited in the presence of a mutated protein phosphatase 2C, encoded by the abi1-1 dominant mutant gene that is known to block ABA responses in Arabidopsis. However, the abi1-1 gene product has no effect on the ABA suppression of a GA-responsive alpha-amylase gene. On the other hand, PKABA1 suppresses the expression of alpha-amylase genes, but has little effect on ABA up-regulated genes. Therefore, it appears that ABA induction and suppression follow two separate signal transduction pathways with the former inhibited by ABI1 and the latter modulated by PKABA1. The presence of VP1 enhances the ABA induction of late embryogenesis genes, but also suppresses germination specific genes. A schematic model based on these observations is presented to explain the effect of these regulatory proteins on ABA-mediated gene expression.
A large portion of plant and particularly cereal genomes consist of repetitive DNA families, many of which are likely to be or to have evolved from retroelements. Molecular evidence suggests that repeated DNA sequences, although perhaps originating as innocuous or 'selfish' elements, can have dramatic effects on genome organization and function. Knowledge of chromosomal distribution of retroelements is important for understanding plant chromosome structure/functional organization, and could shed light on the dynamics of retroelements and their role in the evolutionary process. In the present study we aim to find a possible correlation between physical location of the regions with species-specific sequences and the distribution of conserved RT domains of the Ty1-copia, Ty3-gypsy and LINE groups of retroelements on the chromosomes of two diploid species that belong to the different branches of the tribe Triticeae, namely Aegilops speltoides Tausch (2n=2x=14) and Hordeum spontaneum L (2n=2x=14). All three groups of retroelements were found in large quantities in the genomes of the tested species. They are cluster-distributed, and the important role of these elements in the formation of terminal heterochromatin is shown. We found that there was a predominance of Ty1-copia and LINE elements in the chromosome regions with preferential content of species-specific sequences.
The antagonism between gibberellins (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA) is an important factor regulating the developmental transition from embryogenesis to seed germination. In barley aleurone layers, the expression of genes encoding alpha-amylases and proteases is induced by GA but suppressed by ABA. It has been shown that an ABA-induced protein kinase, PKABA1, mediates the ABA suppression of alpha-amylase expression. Using a barley aleurone transient expression system, we have now localized the site of action of PKABA1 relative to other signal transduction components governing the expression of alpha-amylase. The expression of alpha-amylase can be transactivated by the transcription factor GAMyb, which is itself induced by GA. A truncated GAMyb containing the DNA binding domain but lacking the transactivation domain prevents the GA induction of alpha-amylase, further supporting the notion that GAMyb mediates the GA induction of alpha-amylase expression. Although ABA and PKABA1 strongly inhibit the GA induction of alpha-amylase, they have no effect on GAMyb-transactivated alpha-amylase expression. Using a GAMyb promoter--beta-glucuronidase construct, we also show that both ABA and PKABA1 repress the GA induction of GAMyb. In the slender mutant, GAMyb and alpha-amylase are highly expressed, even in the absence of GA. However, this constitutive expression can still be inhibited by ABA, PKABA1, or an inhibitor of cGMP synthesis. On the basis of these observations, we suggest that PKABA1 acts upstream from the formation of functional GAMyb but downstream from the site of action of the Slender gene product. Because PKABA1 inhibits the GA induction of the GAMyb promoter--beta-glucuronidase construct, it appears that at least part of the action of PKABA1 is to downregulate GAMyb at the transcriptional level.
Double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) has been shown to specifically interfere with gene function in several organisms including tobacco and the model plant Arabidopsis. Here, we report on rapid and sequence-specific interference of dsRNA with gene function in cereals. Delivery of cognate dsRNA into single epidermal cells of maize, barley or wheat by particle bombardment interfered with the function of co-bombarded UidA (GUS) and TaGLP2a:GFP reporter genes. Cognate dsRNA was also found to specifically interfere with the function of the endogenous genes A1 and Ant18 encoding dihydroflavonol-4-reductase in maize and barley, respectively. Dihydroflavonol-4-reductase is an essential enzyme of the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway in maize and barley. This pathway can be induced by transient expression of the C1- and b-Peru genes that encode transcription factors. In the presence of dsRNA corresponding to the dihydroflavonol-4-reductase gene, C1- and b-Peru-dependent, cell-autonomous accumulation of red anthocyanin pigments in bombarded cells of maize and barley was reduced. dsRNA was also demonstrated to negatively interfere with Mlo, which encodes a negative regulator of race non-specific resistance to the powdery mildew fungus in barley. In the presence of Mlo dsRNA, transformed cells became more resistant, thereby phenocopying plants that carry a heritable loss-of function mlo resistance allele. The results suggest that direct delivery of dsRNA to cereals leads to a rapid and sequence-specific interference with gene function at the single-cell level.
The induction of alpha-amylase triggered by gibberellic acid in barley embryos is repressed by sugars. We investigated the effects of glucose on the gibberellin signal transduction pathway to localize the site of interaction of the sugar/hormone signalling pathways. Our results indicate that glucose represses gibberellin signalling late along this hormone transduction pathway, downstream of transcription of the gibberellin-modulated transcriptional activator (GAMYB) needed for alpha-amylase induction. This result suggests either that glucose repression is transduced by a pathway independent of gibberellin signalling or that repression occurs at the level of GAMYB translation.
The plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) mediates many vital processes in plant growth and development, including seed dormancy, cell division, water use efficiency, and adaptation to drought, salinity, chilling, pathogen attack, and UV light. Our understanding of ABA signal transduction is fragmentary and would benefit from specific and facile probes of the process. Protoplasts from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv IR54) embryonic suspension cultures cotransformed with effector plasmids encoding the maize (Zea mays) VIVIPAROUS1 cDNA and/or the Arabidopsis dominant negative mutant (abi1-1) ABA-insensitive cDNA demonstrated genetic interactions of VIVIPAROUS1 and abi1-1 in transactivation of the ABA-inducible HVA1 promoter from barley (Hordeum vulgare), suggesting the mechanisms of these effectors are conserved among monocots and dicots. Trivalent ions have been shown to act as an effector of gene expression in plants and animals, although the mechanism of action is unknown. We show in two complementary transient ABA-inducible gene expression assays (beta-glucuronidase and luciferase enzymatic activities and quantitative flow cytometry of green fluorescent protein) that trivalent ions specifically interact with an ABI1-dependent ABA-signaling pathway leading to gene expression. Trivalent ions mimic ABA effects on gene expression and may be a useful tool to study ABA signaling.
Six MADS-box cDNA clones were isolated by heterologous screening from a barley inflorescence cDNA library. Based on sequence comparison to known MADS-box genes, the barley MADS-box (BM) genes were grouped into three distinct phylogenetic subclasses of the MADS-box gene family. The three MADS-box genes BM3, BM5 and BM8 share similarities with genes of the SQUAMOSA (SQUA) subgroup, while BM7 and BM9 belong to the AGAMOUS-LIKE 2 (AGL2) subgroup. BM1 resembles MADS-box genes described as solitary sequences or orphan genes. Expression analysis of the barley MADS-box genes revealed expression patterns that are not characteristic of the barley MADS-box genes of the SQUA subgroup. while expression of BM7 and BM9 was largely as expected for the AGL2 subgroup. BM1 is mainly expressed in vegetative tissues and its primary transcript undergoes alternative splicing such that the corresponding mRNAs differ by two codons. The genes BM1, BM3 and BM8 were mapped by analysis of single-nucleotide polymorphisms onto barley chromosomes 4, 2 and 7, respectively.
Dysfunction and downregulation of dad (defending against death) has been linked to programmed cell death (PCD) in animals and plants. As DAD is an essential subunit of the oligosaccharyltransferase that is located in the ER membrane, the results have raised the possibility that downregulation of N-linked glycosylation could be involved in the regulation of PCD. Here we show that the 16 kDa subunit of phytepsin, a vacuolar proteinase, is normally processed and glycosylated at the onset of DNA fragmentation in germinating barley scutella. Two cDNA clones encoding dad (dad1, dad2), and one cDNA encoding another subunit of the same oligosaccharyltransferase complex (ost1) were isolated from barley. Northern analysis of germinating scutella show that the expression of only dad1 is declining before onset of DNA fragmentation. In contrast to this, the expression of both dad2 and ost1 increase before onset of DNA fragmentation.
Germinated barley foodstuffs (GBF), which are derived from brewer's spent grain and are a highly safe food substance, increased butyrate production in the lower intestine and prevented mucosal damage and bloody diarrhoea in an acute experimental colitis model. As human histocompatibility leucocyte antigen (HLA)-B27 transgenic rats develop spontaneous and chronic intestinal inflammation resembling ulcerative colitis, we investigated the mechanisms underlying the preventive effects of GBF against a spontaneous and chronic colitis model. Specifically, the production of bacterial butyrate and the regulation of proinflammatory cytokine production were examined. A GBF diet and a cellulose (CE) diet were fed to HLA-B27 transgenic rats for 13 weeks. The presence of faecal occult blood, colonic mucosal protein, DNA and RNA content, colonic myeloperoxidase activity, nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) DNA binding activity, the depth of the crypts and serum inflammatory parameters were then evaluated. Butyrate production in the caecal contents was also determined. Feeding GBF significantly increased bacterial butyrate production and simultaneously attenuated the presence of faecal occult blood and colonic mucosal hyperplasia. Colonic mucosal NFkappaB-DNA binding activity and the production of interleukin-8 were also suppressed by the butyrate produced from GBF. Germinated barley foodstuffs feeding promotes bacterial butyrate production and attenuated inflammation in both spontaneous and chronic colitis in HLA-B27 transgenic rats.
The root-colonizing bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens CHA0 was used to construct an oxygen-responsive biosensor. An anaerobically inducible promoter of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which depends on the FNR (fumarate and nitrate reductase regulation)-like transcriptional regulator ANR (anaerobic regulation of arginine deiminase and nitrate reductase pathways), was fused to the structural lacZ gene of Escherichia coli. By inserting the reporter fusion into the chromosomal attTn7 site of P. fluorescens CHA0 by using a mini-Tn7 transposon, the reporter strain, CHA900, was obtained. Grown in glutamate-yeast extract medium in an oxystat at defined oxygen levels, the biosensor CHA900 responded to a decrease in oxygen concentration from 210 x 10(2) Pa to 2 x 10(2) Pa of O(2) by a nearly 100-fold increase in beta-galactosidase activity. Half-maximal induction of the reporter occurred at about 5 x 10(2) Pa. This dose response closely resembles that found for E. coli promoters which are activated by the FNR protein. In a carbon-free buffer or in bulk soil, the biosensor CHA900 still responded to a decrease in oxygen concentration, although here induction was about 10 times lower and the low oxygen response was gradually lost within 3 days. Introduced into a barley-soil microcosm, the biosensor could report decreasing oxygen concentrations in the rhizosphere for a 6-day period. When the water content in the microcosm was raised from 60% to 85% of field capacity, expression of the reporter gene was elevated about twofold above a basal level after 2 days of incubation, suggesting that a water content of 85% caused mild anoxia. Increased compaction of the soil was shown to have a faster and more dramatic effect on the expression of the oxygen reporter than soil water content alone, indicating that factors other than the water-filled pore space influenced the oxygen status of the soil. These experiments illustrate the utility of the biosensor for detecting low oxygen concentrations in the rhizosphere and other soil habitats.
The chloroplast psbD gene, which encodes the D2 subunit of photosystem II, is regulated by a blue light-responsive promoter (BLRP). We tested the ability of different regions of the barley (Hordeum vulagare) BLRP to drive transcription of the lacZ reporter gene in genomic transformants of Synechococcus sp. strain PCC7942. The barley BLRP was transcribed in Synechococcus from the same initiation sites that are used in plant chloroplasts in vivo. A region of the BLRP, residing between -83 and -112 bp upstream from the transcription initiation sites, functioned as a negative element in Synechococcus. Nucleotide sequences within this region are conserved among the psbD genes of several monocots and dicots, and with the nuclear negative regulatory element GT. Thus this new cis-element was designated Plastid GT, PGT. Proteins from chloroplasts of barley and Arabidopsis thaliana interacted with PGT in a sequence-specific and developmental-dependent manner. The DNA-protein complexes from Arabidopsis chloroplasts are composed of 60- and 38-kDa polypeptides. We postulate that GT and PGT have evolved in the nucleus and chloroplast, respectively, from a common ancestral regulatory element.
A barley endosperm cDNA, encoding a DNA-binding protein of the bZIP class of transcription factors, BLZ2, has been characterized. The Blz2 mRNA expression is restricted to the endosperm, where it precedes that of the hordein genes. BLZ2, expressed in bacteria, binds specifically to the GCN4-like motif (GLM; 5'-GTGAGTCAT-3') in a 43-base pair oligonucleotide derived from the promoter region of a Hor-2 gene (B1-hordein). This oligonucleotide also includes the prolamin box (PB; 5'-TGTAAAG-3'). Binding by BLZ2 is prevented when the GLM is mutated to 5'-GTGctTCtc-3' but not when mutations affect the PB. The BLZ2 protein is a potent transcriptional activator in a yeast two-hybrid system where it dimerizes with BLZ1, a barley bZIP protein encoded by the ubiquitously expressed Blz1 gene. Transient expression experiments in co-bombarded developing barley endosperms demonstrate that BLZ2 transactivates transcription from the GLM of the Hor-2 gene promoter and that this activation is also partially dependent on the presence of an intact PB. A drastic decrease in GUS activity is observed in co-bombarded barley endosperms when using as effectors equimolar mixtures of Blz2 and Blz1 in antisense constructs. These results strongly implicate the endosperm-specific BLZ2 protein from barley, either as a homodimer or as a heterodimer with BLZ1, as an important transcriptional activator of seed storage protein genes containing the GLM in their promoters.
GAMYB is an MYB transcription factor which is expressed in cereal aleurone cells in response to gibberellin (GA). HvGAMYB binds to the TAACAAA box of a high-pl alpha-amylase gene promoter and transcriptionally activates its expression. In this study, we examined the role of HvGAMYB in activating expression of other GA-regulated genes encoding hydrolytic enzymes. In transient expression experiments, HvGAMYB transactivated expression of reporter genes fused to a low-pl alpha-amylase gene promoter, an EII (1-3, 1-4)-beta-glucanase gene promoter and a cathepsin B-like protease promoter. HvGAMYB DNA binding specificity was determined using a PCR-based random site selection using HvGAMYB fusion protein isolated from E. coli. The deduced consensus closely resembled gibberellin response elements in alpha-amylase promoters. Functional analysis of HvGAMYB by transient expression of C terminal HvGAMYB deletions in barley aleurone cells identified two transcriptional activation domains (TADs) which function in transcriptional regulation of both high- and low-pl alpha-amylase promoters. The same TADs were identified using a heterologous yeast expression system. Together, these results indicate that HvGAMYB has two TADs. These domains are C-terminal to its DNA-binding domain.
The most recent major advances in the study of programmed cell death (PCD) in plants include the observation that peptide inhibitors of caspases inhibit the hypersensitive response. Nitric oxide has been shown to be required for the induction of disease related PCD. Mutant analysis has led to the cloning of the first genes involved in PCD related disease resistance, LSD1 and MLO.
The photosystem II reaction center chlorophyll protein D2, is encoded by the chloroplast gene psbD. PsbD is transcribed from at least three different promoters, one which is activated by high fluence blue light. Sequences within 130 base pairs (bp) of the psbD blue light-responsive promoter (BLRP) are highly conserved in higher plants. In this study, the structure of the psbD BLRP was analyzed in detail using deletion and site-directed mutagenesis and in vitro transcription. Deletion analysis showed that a 53-bp DNA region of the psbD BLRP, from -57 to -5, was sufficient for transcription in vitro. Mutation of a putative prokaryotic -10 element (TATTCT) located from -7 to -12 inhibited transcription from the psbD BLRP. In contrast, mutation of a putative prokaryotic -35 element, had no influence on transcription. Mutation of a TATATA sequence located between the barley psbA -10 and -35 elements significantly reduced transcription from this promoter. However, site-directed mutation of sequences located between -35 and -10 had no effect on transcription from the psbD BLRP. Transcription from the psbD BLRP was previously shown to require a 22-bp sequence, termed the AAG-box, located between -36 and -57. The AAG-box specifically binds the protein complex AGF. Site-directed mutagenesis identified two different sequence motifs in the AAG-box that are important for transcription in vitro. Based on these results, we propose that positive factors bind to the AAG-box and interact with the chloroplast-encoded RNA polymerase to promote transcription from the psbD BLRP. Transcription from the psbD BLRP is thus similar to type II bacterial promoters that use activating proteins to stimulate transcription. Transcription of the psbD BLRP was approximately 6. 5-fold greater in plastid extracts from illuminated versus dark-grown plants. This suggests that light-induced activation of this promoter in vivo involves factors interacting with the 53-bp psbD BLRP in vitro.
A cDNA encoding a DNA-binding protein of the DOF class of transcription factors was isolated from a barley endosperm library. The deduced amino acid sequence for the corresponding protein is 94% identical through the DOF domain to the prolamin-box (P-box) binding factor PBF from maize. The gene encoding the barley PBF (BPBF) maps to chromosome 7H, and its expression is restricted to the endosperm where it precedes that of the hordein genes. The BPBF expressed in bacteria as a GST-fusion binds a P-box 5'-TGTAAAG-3' containing oligonucleotide derived from the promoter region of an Hor2 gene. Binding was prevented when the P-box motif was mutated to 5'-TGTAgAc-3'. A P-box binding activity, present in barley and wheat endosperm nuclei, interacted similarly to BPBF with this synthetic oligonucleotide, and the binding was abolished by 1,10-phenanthroline. Transient expression experiments in developing barley endosperms demonstrate that BPBF transactivates transcription from the P-box element of a native Hor2 promoter and that direct binding of BPBF to its target site is essential for transactivation since mutations in the DOF DNA-binding domain or in the P-box motif of this promoter abolished both binding and transactivation. Evidence was also obtained for the presence in wheat of a Pbf homologue having similar DNA-binding properties to that of BPBF. These results strongly implicate this endosperm-specific DOF protein from barley as an important activator of hordein gene expression and suggest the evolutionary conservation of the Pbf gene function among small grain cereals.
A barley gene encoding a novel DNA-binding protein (HRT) was identified by southwestern screening with baits containing a gibberellin phytohormone response element from an alpha-amylase promoter. The HRT gene contains two introns, the larger of which (5722 base pairs (bp)) contains a 3094-bp LINE-like element with homology to maize Colonist1. In vitro mutagenesis and zinc- and DNA-binding assays demonstrate that HRT contains three unusual zinc fingers with a CX8-9CX10CX2H consensus sequence. HRT is targeted to nuclei, and homologues are expressed in other plants. In vivo, functional tests in plant cells indicate that full-length HRT can repress expression from certain promoters including the Amy1/6-4 and Amy2/32 alpha-amylase promoters. In contrast, truncated forms of HRT containing DNA-binding domains can activate, or derepress, transcription from these promoters. Northern hybridizations indicate that HRT mRNA accumulates to low levels in various tissues. Roles for HRT in mediating developmental and phytohormone-responsive gene expression are discussed.
A cDNA encoding a bZIP transcription factor was obtained from barley endosperm and used to identify the corresponding gene from a genomic library. The gene, designated Blz1, contained six exons and five introns, plus a 442 nt-long 5'-untranslated leader sequence, and was located on chromosome 5H. The Blz1 mRNA was detected early in endosperm development and was also expressed in roots and leaves. The BLZ1 protein was a potent transcriptional activator in a yeast system; 85% of its activity was associated with the first 203 amino acid residues at the N-terminus, which included two acidic regions. Presumptive involvement of Blz1 in the regulation of gene expression in endosperm was ascertained by the DNA-binding properties of BLZ1 in electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) and by transient expression in barley developing endosperms, using, as effectors, Blz1 in both sense and anti-sense orientations. In the co-bombardment experiments, the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reported gene responded to Blz1 if under the control of the endosperm-specific ltr1 promoter or under a synthetic promoter containing the endosperm box of gene Hor2. Sucrose synthase promoters Ss1 and Ss2 and synthetic promoters containing mutated sequences of Hor2 were unaffected in trans by Blz1.
To broaden our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of gibberellin (GA) action, we isolated a spindly clone (HvSPY) from barley cultivar Himalaya and tested whether the HvSPY protein would modulate GA action in barley aleurone. The HvSPY cDNA showed high sequence identity to Arabidopsis SPY along its entire length, and the barley protein functionally complemented the spy-3 mutation. HvSPY and SPY proteins showed sequence relatedness with animal O-linked N-acetylglucosamine transferases (OGTs), suggesting that they may also have OGT activity. HvSPY has a locus distinct from that of Sln, a mutation that causes the constitutive GA responses of slender barley, which phenotypically resembles Arabidopsis spy mutants. The possibility that the HvSPY gene encodes a negative regulator of GA action was tested by expressing HvSPY in a barley aleurone transient assay system. HvSPY coexpression largely abolished GA3-induced activity of an alpha-amylase promoter. Surprisingly, HvSPY coexpression increased reporter gene activity from an abscisic acid (ABA)-inducible gene promoter (dehydrin), even in the absence of exogenous ABA. These results show that HvSPY modulates the transcriptional activities of two hormonally regulated promoters: negatively for a GA-induced promoter and positively for an ABA-induced promoter.
A cDNA clone of a defence response transcript was isolated from a library prepared from barley leaves expressing papilla resistance towards the powdery mildew fungus, Blumeria (syn. Erysiphe) graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh). The 904 bp sequence encodes a 229 amino acid polypeptide with a putative signal peptide of 23 amino acids. After cleavage, the protein has a mass of 22.3 kDa and exhibits up to 60% amino acid identity to certain dicot proteins, and 46% amino acid identity to barley oxalate oxidase; therefore we designated it HvOxOLP (for Hordeum vulgare oxalate oxidase-like protein). Single-base substitutions among several cDNA and RACE clones demonstrate a gene of many copies. Both the transcript and protein accumulate from 3 h after inoculation with Bgh. The transcript level peaks at 18-24 h and subsequently decreases, whereas the protein level is stable from 24 h after inoculation. The accumulation patterns are independent of the outcome of the barley/powdery mildew interaction, unlike that of PR proteins, for example. The transcript accumulates specifically in the inoculated epidermal tissue. This temporal and spatial expression pattern suggests a very close relationship to papilla formation. Immunoblot analyses have facilitated a demonstration that HvOxOLP, like oxalate oxidase, is a water-soluble 100 kDa oligomeric protein. The oligomer is heat-stable and SDS-tolerant, and it can be denatured into a 25 kDa monomer. Attempts to demonstrate oxalate oxidase activity for this protein have failed. However, the relationships to oxalate oxidase suggests that HvOxOLP may be involved in H2O2 generation necessary for, for example, cross-linking of cell wall components during formation of papillae.
The transcription factors VP1 (Viviparous-1), EmBP-1 (Em-binding protein 1) and OSBZ8, originally cloned and analysed in various monocot species, have been implicated in the regulation of the Lea (late embryogenesis-abundant) group 1 genes. We have investigated the modulation of the levels of these mRNAs in barley during embryogenesis, and in developing embryos subjected to various kinds of osmotic stress. The accumulation of mRNA for VP1 and EmBP-1 transcription factors, using cDNAs cloned from barley, starts at 10 and 15 days after anthesis, respectively, whereas Lea B19 mRNA levels are very low or undetectable until 25 days after anthesis during normal development. The EmBP-1 mRNA is predominantly induced in mannitol-stressed immature embryos. Vp1 mRNA was not significantly modulated by ABA, salt or mannitol. Inhibition of ABA biosynthesis by norflurazon showed that the induction of both Vp1 and EmBP-1 mRNAs was ABA-independent. In embryo-derived suspension-cultured cells, neither of the two transcripts would be induced by ABA or osmotic stress, although both OSBZ8 and one member of the Lea B19 family was up-regulated by ABA. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays using a Lea B19.1 probe with an ABRE (abscisic acid-responsive element) similar to that which binds EmBP-1 and OSBZ8 in the wheat and rice Em promoters show that the binding activity is increased by ABA and osmotic stress. Taken together, these data show that both VP1 and EmBP-1 are involved in embryo-specific signal transduction pathways, that they are differentially regulated at the mRNA level, and that EmBP-1 can be induced by osmotic stress independently of any increase in endogenous ABA. The difference in mRNA regulation patterns of OSBZ8 and EmBP-1 may suggest that they are involved in different signal transduction pathways in connection with osmotic stress/ABA regulation of Lea genes.
Group II introns frequently require assistance by specific factors, maturases, for folding and effective splicing in vivo. The only putative maturase of higher plant chloroplasts is encoded by matK, located in the intron of trnK. We show that in barley matK transcripts are modified at a first codon base by C-to-U RNA editing. The resulting H --> Y substitution restores a sequence motif that is present in maturases of yeast and plant mitochondria and of Lactococcus ltrA and that is positioned within the X domain. Processing of trnK-matK transcripts was further investigated in plastids lacking functional ribosomes due to a mutation. Absence of the intron-encoded matK gene product in these plastids is correlated with the accumulation of precursor transcripts for tRNALys(UUU)-matK, processed to different degrees, and by the lack of mature and spliced tRNA molecules. These results suggest an essential role of MatK for splicing of its own transcript in vivo. Processing of the 5' end of trnK exon 1 was found to proceed efficiently also in the mutant plastids although the two tRNA exons were separated by the 2481 nt intron. Consequently, presence of the intron does not interfere with the formation of mature 5' termini.
Magnaporthe grisea is a fungal pathogen with two mating types, MAT1-1 and MAT1-2, that forms a specialized cell necessary for pathogenesis, the appressorium. Saccharomyces cerevisiae alpha-factor pheromone blocked appressorium formation in a mating type-specific manner and protected plants from infection by MAT1-2 strains. Experiments with alpha-factor analogs suggest that the observed activity is due to a specific interaction of alpha-factor with an M. grisea receptor. Culture filtrates of a MAT1-1 strain contained an activity that inhibited appressorium formation of mating type MAT1-2 strains. These findings provide evidence that a pheromone response pathway exists in M. grisea that can be exploited for plant protection.
The homeodomain of the knotted classes of transcription factors from plants differs from the well characterized Antp/En type homeodomains from Drosophila at key amino acid residues contributing to the DNA binding. A cDNA, Hvh21, derived from the hooded gene and encoding a full length homolog of knotted1 from maize was isolated from barley seedlings and expressed as a maltose binding protein fusion in E. coli. The purified HvH21-fusion protein selected DNA fragments with 1-3 copies of the sequence TGAC. Gel shift experiments showed that the TGAC element was required for binding and the results further indicate that the HvH21-fusion protein binds DNA as a monomer.
A cDNA clone, OsGAmyb, which encodes a homologue to the barley Myb-like transcription factor, HvGAMyb, was isolated from a rice endosperm cDNA library. The clone was used to show that expression of the OsGAmyb gene in aleurone cells was stimulated by gibberellic acid and the gene product was shown to transactivate an alpha-amylase gene promoter in transient expression analyses.
A genomic DNA fragment was isolated containing 5' upstream sequences and part of the open reading frame corresponding to the lipoxygenase 1 cDNA (LoxA) expressed in barley grains during development and germination. Lox1 transcription was shown to be methyl jasmonate (MeJA)- and wound-inducible in leaves, but Lox1 transcripts were not detected in mildew-infected leaves, although this is a commonly observed response to pathogenic attack in various plants. Transient gene expression assays were used to identify a promoter region involved in MeJA-responsive expression. Analysis of 5' and 3' promoter deletions indicated that sequences between -363 and -294 conferred MeJA-responsive expression. Deletions/replacements covering this part of the promoter further defined a MeJA-responsive region between -331 and -291. Insertion of the region -328 to -293 into the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter conferred MeJA-responsive expression. The 36 bp fragment contains the motif TGACG as inverted repeats, which has been previously identified as a binding site for bZIP transactivating factors. Site-directed mutagenesis on these TGACG motifs abolished MeJA-responsive expression, clearly identifying them as MeJA-responsive elements. Sequence comparisons found no similar motif in other characterized promoters of MeJA-inducible genes, but suggested a common spatial structure which may serve as a binding site for transacting factors involved in the MeJA signal transduction pathway.
The 22-kDa chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (CAB) (psbS gene product) is associated with photosystem II and related to the CAB gene family. Here we report that the PSII-S protein unlike other chlorophyll-binding proteins is stable in the absence of pigments. It is present in etiolated spinach plants and accumulates in the dark progressively with the cellular development of the seedlings. Furthermore, it is present in several pigment-deficient mutants. Analysis of the pigment composition of the PSII-S protein isolated from etiolated plants suggests that neither carotenoids nor chlorophyll precursors are involved in its stabilization in the dark. Exposure of etiolated spinach to light leads to further accumulation of the PSII-S protein, which appears more early than other chlorophyll-binding proteins. Accumulation of the PSII-S protein in green plants is developmentally regulated and restricted to photosynthetic tissues. It is suggested that the function of the PSII-S protein may not be light-harvesting but it could act as a ligand chaperone required for transient binding of pigments during biogenesis or turnover of chlorophyll-binding proteins. Such function would be essential for coordination between pigment biosynthesis and ligation as well as avoiding toxic effects of non-bound chlorophyll molecules.
The protein encoded by cDNA clone pt59 and induced in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) by cold was over-expressed in coli to produce the matching antibody, which in vivo recognized a cold-induced protein of 14 kDa (COR14) that was found in the chloroplast stroma. The accumulation of COR14 occurred only at low temperatures after even a brief exposure of the plants to light. Plants grown and fully hardened in the dark accumulated a reduced amount of pt59-corresponding mRNA and only traces of COR14. Light exposure for as short as 5 min was enough to normalize the expression of pt59-corresponding mRNA and increase the accumulation of COR14. These findings indicate that one or more light-dependent factors are involved in transcription of the gene and accumulation of the protein. The COR14 protein was stored in amounts only slightly greater in the resistant barley cultivar. Onice than in the susceptible cultivar Gitane, although the former had a higher induction-temperature threshold for COR14 than the latter. This fact is an evolutionary advantage, enabling the resistant varieties in the field to prepare the cold well ahead of the susceptible ones.
Plastocyanin is a nuclear-encoded chloroplast protein participating in electron transport during photosynthesis. The plastocyanin gene is expressed in photosynthetic tissue in a developmentally regulated manner and the expression is stimulated by light. A genomic clone encoding the plastocyanin precursor was isolated from a barley (Hordeum vulgare) lambda library using a barley cDNA clone as a probe and the sequence of a 1.9-kb DNA fragment containing the plastocyanin gene was determined. TATA and CCAAT boxes are located 34-bp and 68-bp, respectively, upstream of the transcription start site, the 5'-untranslated leader is 78 nucleotides long, and the intronless gene has at least two different polyadenylation sites. DNA sites in the plastocyanin gene that mediate binding of barley nuclear proteins were mapped by mobility-shift assays with fragments of the promoter/upstream region. Two of the three specific binding sites characterised in more detail were found to form complexes with the same factor in cross-competition experiments. One of these sites, narrowed down to a 17-bp sequence at position -512, contains the consensus binding site for Myb-like transcription factors. The third specific binding site, located at position -622, contains the sequence CACGTG which is a high-affinity-binding site for transcription factors of the basic-region leucine-zipper family.
The turnover of RNAs encoded by seven different barley chloroplast genes was analyzed after treatment of barley shoots with tagetitoxin, a selective inhibitor of chloroplast transcription. Changes in RNA stability were examined during chloroplast development using basal and apical leaf sections of 4.5-day-old dark-grown seedlings and apical leaf sections of 4.0-day-old dark-grown seedlings which had been illuminated for 12 h. Of the RNAs examined, a 2.6 kb unspliced precursor of tRNA(lys) exhibited the shortest half-life, which was estimated to be 3 h. The 16S rRNA and psbA mRNA had the longest estimated half-lives, which were greater than 40 h. Among mRNAs, half-lives were estimated to range from 6 h for psaA mRNA, to over 40 h for psbA mRNA. Therefore, barley chloroplast mRNAs have long half-lives relative to bacterial mRNAs. The stability of atpB mRNA and the unspliced precursor of tRNA-lys was not altered during chloroplast development, while the stability of psaA mRNA decreased 2-fold. In contrast, the stability of the 16S rRNA and mRNAs for rpoA, psbA and rbcL increased during chloroplast development. The stability of 16S rRNA increased markedly during chloroplast development in the dark and this increase was maintained in illuminated seedlings. The stability of rbcL mRNA increased 2.5-fold during chloroplast development in the dark, and then decreased 2-fold in chloroplasts of light-grown plants. The initial increase in rpoA and psbA mRNA stability was also light-independent, with total increases in stability of at least 5-fold. In the case of rpoA, the stability of 2 of the 13 polycistronic rpoA transcripts that were detected in dark-grown plants was selectively increased during chloroplast development. In conclusion, the stability of some transcripts is selectively increased and further modulated during chloroplast development in barley. We propose that the selective stabilization of chloroplast mRNA, which occurred independent of light, is an indication that non-light regulated developmental signals are involved in barley chloroplast mRNA stability.
Interaction of specific nucleotide sequences with trans-acting proteins is intrinsic to replication of viral as well as eucaryotic genomes. Brome mosaic virus RNA-2 encodes one of the two viral proteins known to be essential for replication. (R. French, M. Janda, and P. Ahlquist, Science 231:1294-1297, 1986; P. A. Kiberstis, L. S. Loesch-Fries, and T. C. Hall, Virology 112:804-808, 1981). Transfection of barley protoplasts with wild-type transcripts of brome mosaic virus RNA-1 and RNA-3 and serial dilutions of RNA-2 transcripts possessing unaltered coding sequences but bearing mutations that greatly incapacitated replication of RNA-2 revealed that trace amounts of RNA-2 are sufficient to support replication of the viral genome. In six replicate experiments containing RNA-2 transcripts devoid of the 3' 200 nucleotides that encompass the tRNA-like structure containing the minus-strand promoter, detectable levels of progeny RNA-1 and RNA-3 and subgenomic RNA-4 were present. This showed that viral p2 protein translated from the supplied RNA-2 functioned in trans to support replication of RNA-1 and RNA-3. However, in two similar experiments, progeny RNA-2 with electrophoretic mobility indistinguishable from that of wild-type RNA-2 was seen at 24 h postinoculation. Northern hybridization (RNA blot) analysis confirmed the presence of the tRNA-like 3' terminus on these progeny RNAs, indicating that recombinational restoration of the deleted sequence had occurred. This suggests that, under certain circumstances, RNA recombination may be a rapid and frequent phenomenon.
Synthesis of D2, a Photosystem II reaction center protein encoded by psbD, is differentially maintained during light-induced chloroplast maturation. The continued synthesis of D2 is paralleled by selective light-induced accumulation of two psbD-psbC transcripts which share a common 5' terminus. In the present study, we examine the nature of the photoreceptor and the fluence requirement for psbD-psbC transcript induction. The light-induced change in psbD-psbC RNA population can be detected between 1 and 2 h after 4.5 day old dark-grown barley seedlings are transferred to the light. Light-induced transcript accumulation occurs normally in the chlorophyll-deficient barley mutant, xan-f10, indicating that light-activated chlorophyll formation and photosynthesis are not required for RNA induction. High fluence blue light fully induces psbD-psbC transcript accumulation; low or high fluence red or far-red light do not. However, psbD-psbC transcript accumulation elicited by blue light pulses can be partially attenuated if far-red light is given immediately following the blue light treatment. Thus, although blue light is needed to initiate transcript accumulation, phytochrome modulates the amplitude of the response. Pretreatment of dark-grown plants with cycloheximide blocks light-induced psbD-psbC transcript accumulation. This could implicate a blue-light responsive nuclear gene in the light-induced accumulation of the two psbD-psbC transcripts.
cDNA clones were isolated from tissue specific cDNA libraries of barley and maize using as a probe the cDNA of the maize gene C1, a regulator of anthocyanin gene expression. C1-related homology for all of the four cDNAs characterized by sequence analysis is restricted to the N-terminal 120 amino acids of the putative proteins. This region shows striking homology to the N-proximal domain of the myb oncoproteins from vertebrates and invertebrates. Within the myb proto-oncogene family this part of the respective gene products functions as a DNA binding domain. Acidic domains are present in the C-proximal protein segments. Conservation of these sequences, together with the genetically defined regulator function of the C1 gene product, suggest that myb-related plant genes code for trans-acting factors which regulate gene expression in a given biosynthetic pathway.
Complete cDNA copies of genomic RNA1, RNA2, and RNA3 of cowpea chlorotic mottle virus (CCMV) were cloned 1 base downstream from a T7 RNA polymerase promoter. The mixture of capped in vitro transcripts from all three clones produced normal CCMV infections in barley protoplasts and cowpea plants. By using transcripts from these clones and from a similar set of biologically active clones of the related brome mosaic virus (BMV), all possible single component exchanges between the BMV and CCMV tripartite genomes were tested. Viral RNA replication was not observed with any heterologous combination of RNA1 and RNA2, which encode trans-acting viral RNA replication factors. However, substitution of the heterologous RNA3 into either genome produced viable hybrid viruses, both of which replicated in barley protoplasts and produced lesions on Chenopodium hybridum, a local lesion host for both parent viruses. In hybrid infections, BMV and CCMV coat proteins each readily packaged RNAs from the heterologous virus, but BMV RNAs were replicated to a higher level than CCMV RNAs, even when trans-acting RNA replication factors were provided by CCMV genes. Neither hybrid systemically infected the natural host of either parent virus, suggesting that host specificity determinants in BMV and CCMV are encoded by RNA3 and at least one other genomic RNA.
In response to a phytohormone, gibberellic acid, the aleurone layers of barley seeds synthesize and secrete alpha-amylases, which are coded by a set of stable mRNAs. When aleurone layers are subjected to heat shock treatment, the synthesis of alpha-amylase is suppressed while heat shock proteins are induced. The suppression of alpha-amylase synthesis is not the result of translational control as reported in several other systems. Rather, the sequences of alpha-amylase mRNA are rapidly degraded during heat shock as shown by in vitro translation and dot blot hybridization with a cDNA probe. Upon recovery from heat shock, the tissue resumes the synthesis of alpha-amylase in 2-4 hr. However, in the presence of a transcription inhibitor, cordycepin, the resumption of synthesis of alpha-amylase does not take place, indicating that new transcription of alpha-amylase genes is necessary for this recovery process. The degradation of alpha-amylase mRNAs correlates with the rapid destruction of endoplasmic reticulum as observed by electron microscopy, a phenomenon that has not been reported previously as a heat shock response. Since alpha-amylase mRNA is associated with the endoplasmic reticulum via membrane-bound polyribosomes, we suggest that the destruction of the endoplasmic reticulum during heat shock causes the destabilization and the eventual degradation of alpha-amylase mRNA.
The purpose of this study was to identify specifically genes and transcripts for the high pI isozyme of barley alpha-amylase. From hybridization of coding sequence probes to blots of genomic DNA digested with restriction enzymes that do not cut within our cloned high pI alpha-amylase cDNA, it is estimated that about 7 alpha-amylase genes or pseudogenes exist. No difference could be detected between barley aleurone cell and sprout DNAs. Experiments using probes from the 5' and 3' untranslated sequences of the high pI alpha-amylase cDNA clone identified three HindIII fragments that probably carry high pI sequences. Primer extension experiments used as a primer the terminal 5' coding sequence from our cDNA clone; this primer would not cross-hybridize to low pI alpha-amylase transcripts. Two major transcripts were identified. These shared a conserved 23-base sequence immediately 5' to the ATG start codon, although a C----G transversion and a 3-base deletion were present within this sequence. An unusual 8-base pair GC palindrome was present in the conserved region immediately preceding the ATG start codon. Distal to the conserved sequence there was no apparent homology. One transcript carrying a 97-base untranslated region was identical to our high pI cDNA clone E. The gene for the other was recovered from a lambda phage genomic library. The 5' coding sequence was very similar, but not identical to clone E, demonstrating that these transcripts arise from separate genes. The two transcripts increased coordinately in aleurone cells stimulated with gibberellic acid. These data indicate that there is a high pI alpha-amylase multigene family with at least two active members, both of which are regulated in some manner by the plant hormone gibberellic acid.
Highland barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum) is a key crop of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, renowned for its nutritional value and exceptional adaptability to high-altitude environments. Induced mutagenesis offers a powerful approach to developing new crop varieties and elucidating the genetic basis of functional traits. In this study, nitrogen ion beam implantation was employed to induce mutations in the highland barley cultivar Kunlun 14 (K14), generating 71 novel mutation materials and enriching the genetic resources for barley breeding. Phenotypic trait correlation analysis identified two mutation lines exhibiting significant variations: E8-38 with highly increased 1000-grain weight, and D7-67 displaying a two-row spike phenotype. Comparative transcriptomic analysis was applied to the above two mutation materials. It was revealed that the high 1000-grain weight of E8-38 was driven by synergistic regulation of phytohormone signaling, metabolic pathways, and epigenetic modifications, particularly the upregulation of the cytokinins signaling pathway and starch metabolism genes. In D7-67, the two-rowed spike phenotype was underpinned by the upregulation of VRS1 genes. Adaptive mechanisms to high-altitude environments were investigated, revealing upregulation of PAL and 4CL genes in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, which enhances UV resistance and antioxidant capacity. Additionally, optimization of the photosynthetic pathway may contribute to acclimation under harsh stress conditions. Through PPI analysis, BZIP transcription factors were found to regulate downstream genes, facilitating adaptation to light changes and oxidative stress. Nitrogen ion beam implantation was demonstrated to be an efficiency method to introduce mutation on the highland barley, generating a set of mutation materials with a wide range of genetic variations. Through comparative transcriptomic analysis, this study elucidates the molecular basis underlying the 1000-grain weight and spike-type mutants, as well as the adaptive mechanisms enabling highland barley to thrive in high-altitude environments. These findings provide critical insights into the genetic and molecular mechanisms driving high-yield and stress-resilient traits in highland barley.
The plant cell wall is a crucial structure that ensures plant cell integrity and facilitates environmental adaptation. Cellulose is the primary component of the plant cell wall. Its biosynthesis is orchestrated through the plasma membrane-localized multiprotein cellulose synthase complex, which includes a membrane-anchored endo-1,4-ß-glucanase. Here, we identified a barley (Hordeum vulgare) mutant with short roots resulting from repressed cell division and elongation, which we designated hordeum vulgare endo-β-1,4-D-glucanase 3-1 (hvglu3-1). HvGLU3 encodes a putative membrane-anchored endo-1,4-ß-glucanase that is highly conserved across plant species. The hvglu3-1 mutant exhibited a 60% reduction in cellulose content, accompanied by changes in hemicellulose and suberin levels and an altered lignin structure in the roots. Subcellular localization analyses and bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays suggested a direct interaction between HvGLU3 and primary cellulose synthases. We investigated the reprogramming of the tissue-specific transcriptome in hvglu3-1 root tips using a combination of laser capture microdissection (LCM) and RNA sequencing. This approach revealed that 74% of all genes that are actively expressed in the elongation zone are influenced by root cellulose biosynthesis. Gene co-expression analyses highlighted the essential role of cellulose biosynthesis in diverse biological processes, including cell wall organization, phytohormone signaling, and stress responses, to regulate root tissue development. Overall, our study demonstrates the partially conserved role of HvGLU3 in controlling cellulose biosynthesis in roots and provides valuable transcriptomic resources for future studies.
Aluminium (Al) toxicity is a major factor limiting plant growth in acidic soils. The beneficial element silicon (Si) can mitigate some effects of Al. However, the impact of Al on suberized apoplastic barriers in roots is largely unknown while the effects of Si on suberin remain controversial. This study employed physiological, histochemical and analytical methods, along with laser capture microdissection (LCM) RNA-sequencing, to explore the effects of Al and Si on suberin development in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), a species sensitive to Al stress. Exposure of barley seedlings to Al resulted in increased suberin deposition, which could be reversed with the addition of Si, particularly in the root endodermis. Gene expression analyses using LCM RNA-seq across different root tissues demonstrated that Al-induced suberin biosynthesis is mainly regulated by the abscisic acid (ABA) pathway. In addition, the application of fluridone, an inhibitor of ABA synthesis and a suberin mutant, further supported the pivotal role of ABA in the Al response and the role of suberin in influencing Al uptake. Our findings underscore the complex interplay between Al stress and suberin biosynthesis in barley, providing insights into potential strategies for enhancing crop resilience to Al toxicity.
Variation in shoot architecture, or tillering, is an important adaptive trait targeted during the domestication of crops. A well-known regulatory factor in shoot architecture is TEOSINTE BRANCHED 1 (TB1). TB1 and its orthologs have a conserved function in integrating environmental signals to regulate axillary branching or tillering in cereals. The barley (Hordeum vulgare) ortholog of TB1, VULGARE ROW-TYPE SIX 5 (VRS5), regulates tillering and is involved in regulating row-type by inhibiting lateral spikelet development. These discoveries predominantly come from genetic studies; however, how VRS5 regulates these processes on a molecular level remains largely unknown. By combining transcriptome analysis between the vrs5 mutant and the wild type at different developmental stages and DAP-sequencing to locate the genome-wide DNA binding sites of VRS5, we identified bona fide targets of VRS5. We found that VRS5 targets abscisic acid-related genes, potentially to inhibit tillering in a conserved way. Later in inflorescence development, VRS5 also targets row-type gene VRS1 and several known floral development genes, such as MIKCc-type MADS-box genes. This study identifies several genes for mutational analysis, representing a selection of bona fide targets that will contribute to a deeper understanding of the VRS5 network and its role in shaping barley development.
Salt stress is limiting barley growth, development, and production. Transcription factors (TFs) play a critical role in plant responses to salt stress by modulating gene expression Salinity stress increases over time due to climate change. It represents a major constraint to barley growth, development, and yield. Enhancing salt tolerance to withstand salt stress is crucial for ensuring global food security. We discussed transcription factors (TFs) that play a key role in responding to salt stress by modulating downstream genes and facilitating alterations in physiological and biochemical pathways. TF families strongly associated with the bZIP, DREB, NAC, bHLH, MYB, ERF, and WRKY are particularly involved in regulating ion homeostasis, osmotic adjustment, and signaling under stressful conditions. These discoveries establish a platform for generating salt-tolerant barley genotypes utilizing modern biotechnological methods. CRISPR/Cas and virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) are broadly used tools to investigate gene function by knocking out or silencing target genes under salt stress. Furthermore, integrating the existing knowledge and foundations of TFs could yield sustainable, salt-resistant barley genotypes for agriculture. Multi-omics and bioinformatics have accelerated the identification of salt-responsive genes and TFs. The review recorded the recent progress in the molecular mechanisms of salinity tolerance in barley and indicates the potential of biotechnology for improving salt tolerance in barley varieties.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), a crucial cereal crop known for its resilience to harsh environmental conditions, relies on complex genetic networks to withstand abiotic stressors such as drought, salinity, and extreme temperatures. In this study, a comprehensive genome-wide identification and characterization of the NAC (NAM, ATAF, and CUC) transcription factor family in barley was conducted, revealing 26 HvNAC genes. Detailed analyses included assessments of gene structure, conserved motifs, cis-regulatory elements, chromosomal localization, and evolutionary relationships with other species. The findings demonstrated significant diversity in the physicochemical properties and structural features of HvNAC proteins, with several genes harboring stress-responsive elements linked to Abscisic acid (ABA), Methyl jasmonate (MeJA), auxin, and gibberellin pathways. Phylogenetic analysis revealed six distinct clades of NAC genes, indicating the evolutionary divergence of HvNACs from related species, such as wheat, rice, and Arabidopsis thaliana. Additionally, gene duplication events and synteny analysis highlighted the evolutionary forces shaping this gene family. The investigation of microRNA (miRNA) interactions identified miRNA164 and Hvu-miR156 as key regulators of HvNAC expression under drought stress, underscoring the functional importance of these genes in stress adaptation. Under drought and salt stress, HvNAC2 and HvNAC6 were significantly upregulated in barley roots, highlighting their key roles in stress adaptation, while leaves showed minimal expression changes. Additionally, under temperature stress, HvNAC4, HvNAC5, and HvNAC3 were upregulated in leaves during heat stress, whereas HvNAC6 and HvNAC6-C were more active in roots during cold stress, indicating tissue-specific responses to environmental conditions. This study offers valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms governing stress tolerance in barley and provides a foundation for breeding programs aimed at enhancing barley's resilience to environmental challenges.
GATA transcription factors play crucial roles in plant growth and development, especially in response to environmental stress. Although GATA genes have been studied and identified in various plants, research on these genes in barley is relatively limited. This study identified the GATA gene family and analyzed its gene structure, chromosome distribution, evolutionary analysis, and expression patterns of the HvGATAgene family in barley. The results showed that 27 HvGATA genes are unevenly distributed across seven chromosomes and divided into four subfamilies with similar structures within the same subfamily. Gene synthesis analysis revealed that HvGATA gene family has undergone significant purifying selection. It is noteworthy that the promoter regions of HvGATA genes displayed many cis-acting elements associated with stress responses and hormone regulation. Additionally, the 27 identified genes are predominantly involved in responses to inorganic substances, as indicated by the Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis. The majority of miRNAs that regulate these genes are also capable of modulating abiotic stress responses. Furthermore, expression analysis confirms that the majority of HvGATA genes participate in the regulation of abiotic stresses. In summary, this study contribute to our understanding of important role of HvGATAs in barley, providing a foundation for further exploration of gene function and target genes related to stress responses.
Barley, as an important grain crop, often suffers from low-temperature stress during growth and development, which constitutes a significant impact on the yield and quality of barley. Therefore, an in-depth study of the metabolic response of barley under low-temperature stress is of great significance to improve the cold tolerance of barley. In this study, metabolites in barley leaves under different times of low-temperature stress were analyzed by ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS), together with physiological data analysis. Result: Low-temperature stress decreased Pn, Gs, Tr, and SPAD in barley leaves, leading to an increase in ROS content, and a total of 800 metabolites were identified by metabolome analysis, belonging to amino acids and their derivatives, phenolic acids, nucleotides, and their derivatives, flavonoids, coumarins, alkaloids, organic acids, and free fatty acids. A total of 92, 91, 40, and 101 significantly different metabolites were identified at 0 h-vs-12 h, 0 h-vs-48 h, 12 h-vs-48 h, and 0 h-vs-Re24h, which were mainly involved in metabolic pathways, biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, ABCs and other metabolites. These differential metabolites were mainly involved in Metabolic pathways, Biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, ABC transporters, Biosynthesis of amino acids, Phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, Tryptophan metabolism, Flavonoid biosynthesis, Glycine, serine and threonine metabolism, Histidine metabolism, and Linoleic acid metabolism. Among them, the main up-regulated metabolites under low-temperature stress were 4-Hydroxyacetophenone, O-Acetylserine, Sinapoylagmatine, and Sinapoylputrescine, and the main down-regulated metabolites were Catechin gallate, D-Melezitose and Epigallocatechin-3-gallate, and the pathways with the highest enrichment of differential metabolites were Glycine, serine and threonine metabolism and Linoleic acid metabolism. Conclusion: Through the comprehensive analysis of physiological and metabolomic data, we initially revealed the metabolic network of barley under low-temperature stress and identified the key metabolites and metabolic pathways related to cold resistance. This study not only provides a new perspective on the molecular mechanism of cold resistance in barley but also provides an important theoretical basis for breeding barley for cold resistance. In the future, we will continue to study the regulatory mechanisms of these key metabolites and metabolic pathways, to produce new barley varieties with stronger cold resistance through genetic engineering and molecular breeding.
The Eceriferum (CER) gene family plays a crucial role in mitigating non-stomatal water loss and enhancing plant resilience to abiotic stresses, particularly drought and salinity. A comprehensive understanding of CER gene composition and expression dynamics is thereby, fundamental for developing stress-resilient crop varieties. In this study, we identified 12 CER genes in the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) genome through an extensive genome-wide analysis. These genes were mapped across multiple chromosomes, and phylogenetic classification delineated them into distinct subgroups, reflecting their evolutionary divergence. Structural analyses, including exon-intron architecture, conserved motif composition, and protein domain organization, revealed a high degree of conservation within subfamilies. Collinearity analysis indicated a limited occurrence of gene duplication events, suggesting an evolutionary trajectory distinct from that observed in other species. Additionally, promoter region analysis uncovered diverse cis-regulatory elements associated with hormonal regulation and abiotic stress responses, providing insights into potential transcriptional regulatory mechanisms. Expression profiling across different stress conditions demonstrated stress-specific gene expression patterns and dynamic transcriptional responses to salinity and drought. Collectively, these findings offer valuable insights into the functional roles of CER genes in barley and identify promising candidates for genetic interventions aimed at improving stress tolerance in cereal crops.
Although metabolites of barley grains have been analyzed, the changes in metabolite abundance and gene expression regulation mechanisms during barley grain development have not been elucidated. Here, we explore the dynamic accumulation patterns of metabolites in barley grains at six different developmental stages by analyzing high-resolution metabolomic and transcriptomic data from Huadamai6 and Huaai11. We detect 986 metabolites and 18,868 co-expressed genes. Meanwhile, we identify 1057 mQTLs associated with 553 metabolites in a double haploid (DH) population derived from these two cultivars, and integrate metabolome, transcriptome, and mQTL information to construct a global co-expression regulatory network of barley grain metabolism. Using this dataset, we excavate transcription factors and structural genes that regulate flavonoid metabolism pathway, and also reveal the complex mechanism of HvC1-1 and HvMYC-1 regulating grain color differentiation in the DH population. Our findings reveal the metabolic regulatory network of barley grains development, and provide valuable resources for future nutritional quality improvement and molecular design breeding of barley.
Fungi and aphids show mutual interactions on barley pathogenesis. Fungi promote pathogenesis, while aphids either weaken or strengthen the infection. Otherwise, fungi alter aphid behavior and performance, further highlighting their complex interactions. Characterizing these synergistic and antagonistic interactions is crucial for understanding pathogenesis. Therefore, we performed meta-analysis and co-expression gene network analyses of the barley transcriptome in response to fungus and aphid based on hormone signaling pathways. We selected 13 studies, including 380 fungal infection samples, 48 aphid-attack samples, and 34 hormone-treated samples. We showed that 1.1% of DEGs were common between fungal and aphid-related datasets, while only 0.1% of DEGs were shared among all datasets. In addition, 70% of common DEGs were uniquely regulated by JA or SA signaling. In contrast, 30% of DEGs were regulated by both JA and SA simultaneously. Regulatory element analysis revealed that 85% of DEGs contained at least one binding site from AP2/EREBP or C2H2 zinc-finger factors that show substantial roles in SAR/ISR pathways during plant defense. Gene network analysis identified key hub genes, including SSI2, PAD2, RPS1, RPS17, SHM1, CYP5, and RPL21C, which influence plant host preference in response to pathogens. Moreover, we identified novel hub genes with unknown functions that potentially interact with the genes involved in defense responses and host preference. This study presents the first systems biology analysis of barley transcriptomic responses to heterotroph/biotroph cross-talk focusing on the preference and performance of Rhopalosiphum padi. Our findings suggest critical insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying barley defense responses and identify valuable candidate genes to developing pathogen resistance genotypes in agricultural systems.
High temperature-induced plant stress affects defence responses to pathogens. Susceptibility of plants to biotrophic and hemibiotrophic infections are mostly enhanced by short-term heat shock (HS), but little is known about HS effects on plants infected by necrotrophic pathogens. Here we evaluated the effects of HS in susceptible barley (Hordeum vulgare cvs. Ingrid and Himalaya) infected with the necrotrophic Pyrenophora teres f. teres (Ptt) by monitoring disease symptoms, Ptt biomass, plant defence components (ROS, antioxidants and defence-related gene expression). Ptt biomass was assessed by qPCR, hydrogen peroxide (H
The frequency of extreme precipitation events is predicted to increase due to climate change, leading to soil waterlogging and crop yield losses, particularly in the case of susceptible species such as barley (Hordeum vulgare). Aerenchyma formation is a key morphological adaptation to waterlogging stress and hypoxic conditions, however, its genetic regulation in barley remains largely unresolved. The aim of this study was to address this knowledge gap and characterize the transcriptional signatures associated with waterlogging stress response and aerenchyma formation in barley roots. Two barley cultivars (Franklin and Yerong) were subjected to waterlogging stress, followed by analysis of phenotypic traits including root aerenchyma formation, and transcriptomic profiling of root tissue. Differential gene expression analysis and gene regulatory network construction were carried out using generated RNA-seq datasets. Performed analyses identified genes transcriptionally responsive to 24 and 72 h of waterlogging in both cultivars, and highlighted metabolic adaptations, regulation of ROS signalling and management of stress responses as key elements of the waterlogging response in barley roots. Large intra-individual variation was observed for root aerenchyma formation. This variation was exploited to identify 81 candidate aerenchyma-associated genes and ascertain pathways involved in aerenchyma formation. Further, network analyses suggested that DNA damage response gene, DRT100 and cell wall modifying genes: XTH16, XTH15 are regulatory hub genes in aerenchyma formation. This study provides new insights into transcriptional signatures associated with waterlogging responses and aerenchyma formation in barley roots. Identified candidate aerenchyma associated genes offer new targets for future research and breeding efforts aimed at enhancing waterlogging tolerance in this crop species.
Interactions between plants and soil microbes are widespread and are documented to modulate plant-insect herbivore interactions. Still, it remains unclear how these shape the overall plant defense responses and the mechanisms in suppressing insect populations. We performed bioassays and a time-series global gene expression analysis of barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants to study the underlying molecular pathways induced by two rhizobacteria, Acidovorax radicis or Bacillus subtilis, against Sitobion avenae aphids. Root inoculation by A. radicis or B. subtilis suppressed aphid populations on barley. Analysis of differentially expressed genes and co-expressed gene modules revealed a combination of rhizobacteria and aphid-induced plant responses. Aphid feeding triggered distinct plant responses in rhizobacteria-inoculated barley compared to uninoculated control plants, in phytohormone, glutathione, and phenylpropanoid pathways within 24 h. By day 7, stronger responses were observed in phenylpropanoid and nutrient pathways. By day 21, changes occurred in flavonoid pathways and genes related to aphid-induced tissue damage and repair. Our study suggests that rhizobacteria inoculation of barley against aphids is dynamic and acts through several molecular pathways to modulate and prime plant resistance (defenses) and tolerance (nutrition and growth) to aphids. Future research holds promise for exploiting these interactions for crop protection and pest management in agriculture.
Plant lipoxygenases (LOXs) catalyze the oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids, which can adversely affect grain storability. Although the genetic engineering of
Seed dormancy is regulated by a combination of developmental and environmental cues to ensure seedling survival in a changing environment. In barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), the SD1 and SD2 (where SD is standard deviation) loci regulate dormancy and pre-harvest sprouting (PHS), though their role in physiological development remains unclear. Malting barley production in Eastern Canada is currently limited due to the high potential for PHS in the region. To understand what genetic loci might be influencing dormancy in Eastern Canadian barley, we evaluated the LegCi biparental population, which was derived from the Léger variety. A quantitative trait loci close to the SD1 on chromosome 5 locus was identified as regulating germination in LegCi, suggesting that the alanine aminotransferase gene (AlaAT1), which underlies dormancy regulation at SD1, influences dormancy in LegCi. Alanine aminotransferases influence energy production in the cell, particularly during nitrogen limitation or oxygen deprivation. LegCi genotypes segregating for dormancy at the SD1 allele showed no differences in abscisic acid or GA-dependent gene expression during grain fill but varied for hypoxia-induced gene expression. Hypoxia suppressed germination in all genotypes but had a significantly higher impact on genotypes with the dormant AlaAT1 relative to genotypes with the non-dormant AlaAT1. This trend was not dependent on the presence of the hull, suggesting that signaling or metabolism inside the germinating seed is influencing hypoxia sensitivity. This work suggests that the non-dormant allele of SD1 is associated with reduced hypoxia stress sensitivity to promote germination. Further work is needed to determine if this trend extends to other barley genotypes.
Identifying genes regulating flowering time enhances understanding mechanisms that improve crop adaptation and productivity. This study aims to identify gene(s) underlying barley flowering time quantitative trait locus (QTL) "HvHeading". To investigate the reported delayed-flowering effect of QTL, we selected spring barley MAGIC DH lines with different alleles in HvHeading locus which carry the same alleles in epistatic loci. Phenotyping apex development revealed contrasting effects of two alleles of HvHeading locus. Combining recombination and differential gene expression analyses using RNA-sequencing for apex and leaf tissue pinpointed a 3.94 Mbs interval which carried 22 differently expressed genes. Initial analysis using Morex IBSC v2 reference genome suggested a transcription elongation factor HvSpt6, encoded by HORVU1Hr1G067820, as a possible candidate gene potentially involved in flowering time regulation. Full-length HvSpt6 sequencing found two promoter mutations in the allele from delayed-flowering genotype, creating a binding site for TEM1, a transcription factor known for involvement in suppressing flowering time in Arabidopsis. The findings provided the first insights for flowering time regulation by HvHeading underlying gene. Though further functional studies are needed to conclusively identify the causal gene. This study showed that leveraging knowledge of epistatic loci to address phenotypic background effects, followed by RNA sequencing can be an effective approach for identifying genes in large regions of suppressed recombination in crops with complex genomes.
The DNA-binding protein WHIRLY1, sharing structural similarities with ferritin, plays a role in the formation of iron cofactor proteins within chloroplasts. Previous studies indicated that barley plants with a knockdown of HvWHIRLY1 containing a minimal amount of the protein are compromised in chloroplast development and photosynthesis, and get chlorotic leaves when grown at high irradiance. Thereby, the leaves display signs of iron deficiency. Metal determination revealed, however, that leaves of WHIRLY1-deficient plants had a regular iron content. Nevertheless, WHIRLY1-deficiency affected the functionality of photosystem II less than that of photosystem I, which has a higher demand for iron. Immunological analyses revealed that components of both photosystems had reduced levels. Additionally, the levels of other chloroplast proteins containing different classes of iron cofactors were lower in the WHIRLY1-deficient plants compared to the wild type. In contrast, the level of the iron sequestering protein ferritin increased in WHIRLY1-deficient lines, whereby high irradiance intensified this effect. RNA analyses showed that the upregulation of ferritin coincided with an enhanced expression of the corresponding gene, reflecting an apparent overload of chloroplasts with free iron. Ferritin and WHIRLY proteins are known to share the same oligomeric structure. Therefore, the high abundance of ferritin in WHIRLY1-deficient plants might be a compensation for the reduced abundance of WHIRLY1. Enhanced expression levels of genes encoding photosynthesis proteins and iron cofactor proteins indicate a demand for protein formation or assembly of protein complexes. The results support a general role of WHIRLY1 in assembly and/or stabilization of chloroplast proteins and, moreover, suggest a specific function in sequestering and supply of iron in chloroplasts.
Our findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms that regulate N metabolism in barley and potentially other cereal crops, offering valuable perspectives for enhancing N use efficiency in agricultural practices. Efficient nitrogen (N) utilization is essential for plant growth, especially during seed development and germination. In barley (Hordeum vulgare), the asparagine synthetase gene HvASN1 is essential for nitrogen transport and storage, synthesizing asparagine, a key molecule in N recycling. The phylogenetic analysis indicates that HvASN1 clusters with Arabidopsis AtASN1 and shares high similarity with HvASN2, suggesting a conserved role in N metabolism. A detailed characterization of a ~ 500 bp HvASN1 promoter region revealed a conserved GCN-like cis-element. Transient expression assays in Nicotiana benthamiana demonstrated that the wild-type promoter significantly increases luciferase activity under dark conditions, whereas mutation of the GCN-like element reduces this activity, highlighting its role in light-responsive gene regulation. Further investigation identified the bZIP transcription factor HvbZIP53 as an activator of the HvASN1 promoter through binding to the GCN-like element. This activation is finely tuned by sucrose via a conserved upstream open reading frame (uORF) in HvbZIP53's 5' UTR, which mediates sucrose-induced repression of translation. Additionally, yeast two-hybrid assays and transient expression studies in Arabidopsis provided evidence that HvbZIP53 physically interacts with HvBLZ1, a C group bZIP factor, resulting in a synergistic enhancement of HvASN1 expression. The spatial and temporal expression analyses further revealed that HvASN1, HvbZIP53, and HvBLZ1 are co-expressed in key seed tissues during development and germination. These findings indicate a complex regulatory network integrating environmental and metabolic signals to modulate N metabolism in barley, with implications for improving N use efficiency in cereal crops.
Cadmium (Cd) is one of the most hazardous and persistent heavy metal pollutants globally. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) play a crucial role in regulating plant gene expression under various abiotic stress conditions. This study investigated the response of the lncRNA transcriptome in the roots of two contrasting Tibetan hull-less barley genotypes, X178 (Cd-tolerant) and X38 (Cd-sensitive), to Cd stress using RNA sequencing. A total of 8299 novel lncRNAs were identified, with 5166 unique target genes associated with 2571 unique lncRNAs. Among these, 1884 target genes were regulated by cis-acting lncRNAs, while 3428 were regulated by trans-acting lncRNAs. By analyzing differential expression profiles in the two genotypes under Cd stress, 26 lncRNAs and 150 mRNAs were identified as potentially linked to Cd tolerance. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the target genes were significantly enriched in detoxification and stress response functions, including pathways related to phenylalanine, tyrosine, tryptophan, ABC transporters, and secondary metabolites. Additionally, 12 lncRNAs forming 18 lncRNA-mRNA pairs were identified as key regulators of Cd tolerance. The functional roles of these lncRNA-mRNA interactions suggest that they modulate proteins such as DJ-1, EDR, PHT, and ABC transporters, which may contribute to the Cd tolerance observed in genotype X178. High-throughput sequencing results were validated by qRT-PCR. These findings deepen our understanding of lncRNAs as critical regulators of Cd tolerance in plants, offering valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying heavy metal stress responses in crops.
Salt stress adversely impacts crop growth and development, resulting in stunted growth and diminished grain yield. Therefore, this study explores the synergetic effects of seed priming with iron nanoparticles (FeNPs) integrated with a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on the phenotypic, biochemical, and agronomic traits of 138 barley accessions under control, salinity stress, and seed iron priming treatments. A normal phenotypic distribution was observed across all accessions under the tested conditions, with significant natural phenotypic variation in response to the treatments. Remarkably, seed priming with FeNPs showed a significant enhancement in superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and selective modulation of catalase (CAT) and glutathione reductase (GR) activities, indicating a targeted oxidative stress response. Compared to control and salinity stress conditions, priming with FeNPs showed substantial increases in all agronomic traits, including spike length (SL), number of spikelets per spike (NSS), number of grains per spike (NGS), weight of grains per spike (WGS), and thousand kernel weight (TKW), suggesting its potential to mitigate the adverse effects of salinity and promote better crop performance. Based on GWAS analysis, sixteen highly significant marker associations/candidate genes were detected to be associated with antioxidant components. Using quantitative real-time PCR analysis (RT-qPCR), FeNPs seed priming effectively modulates the plant's transcriptional response to salinity stress by balancing rapid gene activation with sustained stress adaptation. This approach mitigates excessive defense responses while promoting long-term stability through controlled upregulation of key genes, such as PP2C, Phosphotransferase, Terpene Synthase Putative, and RWP-RK. The findings support the potential of FeNPs as a biotechnological tool to enhance crop resilience and optimize agronomic performance under adverse environmental conditions.
Barium (Ba) is classified as a non-essential element, meaning that it does not play a requisite role in the physiological processes of living organisms, but it poses a significant health risk to them. Plants that grow in Ba-rich soils, particularly near barite outcrops or mining waste, often accumulate high levels of Ba. Excess Ba in plant cells can lead to the overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which contributes to oxidative stress. Typically, nitric oxide (NO) can help alleviate heavy metal stress; however, under certain conditions, elevated levels of superoxide and nitric oxide may result in nitrosative and nitrative stress. This study investigated whether exposing barley plants to barium acetate (300 μM and 600 μM) triggers a nitro-oxidative response in spring barley plants. The molecular and biochemical analyses revealed fluctuations in the gene expression and activity of antioxidant enzymes and a steady rise in hydrogen peroxide (H
The Di19 (Drought-induced 19) gene family encodes Cys2/His2-type zinc finger proteins that are known to be involved in plant responses to various abiotic stresses, including drought, salinity, and temperature extremes. However, little is known about their roles in barley (
Powdery mildew (PM) caused by This study was conducted from 2022 to 2024 at the National Institute of Agricultural Sciences in Wanju, Republic of Korea. We conducted artificial crossing, genomic DNA extraction, phenotypic evaluation, QTL-seq analysis, and cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) marker development. Candidate gene expression was analyzed using real-time quantitative reverse transcription PCR. A total of 2,130 common variants were identified in two regions of chromosome 1H (6,940,595-18,008,713 bp and 19,363,700-20,551,018 bp). Twenty-one non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms among these variants were used to develop CAPS markers, which were validated in an F The development of the CAPS marker (PMC_75) provides a valuable tool for marker-assisted selection in breeding PM-resistant malting barley, improving breeding efficiency, and accelerating the development of resistant cultivars.
Rhynchosporium commune is a fungal pathogen responsible for causing scald disease in barley, leading to significant yield losses and reduced grain quality in susceptible cultivars. Effector proteins secreted by R. commune play crucial roles in manipulating host defenses and facilitating infection. Hence, this study aimed to identify and characterize effector candidates (ECs) in R. commune using a comprehensive bioinformatics approach combined with experimental validation. Initially, a dataset of 12,211 genes from the R. commune strain UK7 genome was analyzed to identify potential ECs, resulting in the selection of 48 candidate proteins. These candidates were further validated using RNA-Seq analysis, which confirmed significant expression of 27 ECs during infection. Our analysis re-identified key effectors, including CZT06923 and CZT13833, with 100% identity to NIP3 and NIP2, respectively, in R. commune. Novel ECs, such as CZT07600, CZT13755, and CZT13375, were identified with lower identity to NIP2, suggesting potential variants. Additionally, structural analysis revealed that CZT07873 EC indicates significant structural similarity to known fungal effector. qRT-PCR validation confirmed the differential expression of CZS93219 and CZT13755, with peak expression at 9 and 12 dpi, respectively. This comprehensive approach enhances our understanding of R. commune's pathogenic mechanisms and provides insights into potential targets for developing disease management strategies in barley cultivation.
Brassinosteroids (BRs) are steroid phytohormones which regulate various physiological and developmental processes throughout plant life cycle. The BR biosynthesis has been studied mainly in the dicot model species -
Plants have evolved diverse adaptive mechanisms to sense and respond to environmental stimuli such as cadmium stress. The regulation of gene expression plays a critical role in plant responses to abiotic stress. However, homologous genes from different plant species or even different genotypes within the same species often show divergent responses to stress, and sequence homology does not necessarily imply functional similarity. Therefore, current homology alignment approaches to predicting transcriptional response to the specific stress have inherent limitations. In this study, we trained supervised classification models using the Random Forest algorithm to predict cadmium-responsive genes based on gene sequence features in Arabidopsis thaliana, Avicennia marina, Hordeum vulgare, and Nicotiana tabacum. Our models successfully predicted transcriptional response to cadmium stress both within and across species. The results suggested that transcriptome data from well-studied species can be used to predict cadmium-responsive genes in other species lacking such data. Cis-regulatory elements analysis further revealed that MYB TFs play essential roles in cadmium stress responses. Additionally, we experimentally confirmed that the MYB TF Am06526 activates the expression of AmPCR2 using yeast one-hybrid and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Finally, we developed PlantCdMiner (https://jasonxu.shinyapps.io/PlantCdMiner/), a web-based tool that enables users to predict cadmium-responsive genes and visualize cis-regulatory elements based on genomic features using machine learning.
Low phosphorus stress significantly limits plant growth and agricultural production. Identifying core genes responsive to low-phosphorus stress and breeding new high-phosphorus-efficient crop varieties are crucial for solving practical production problems. Barley is an important crop with genetic diversity and stress tolerance. In this study, we aimed to explore the core genes in barley roots under low-phosphorus stress. Based on the transcriptome sequencing data of barley root under low phosphorus stress, we used the Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) method on the high phosphorus-efficient genotype GN121. All expressed genes related to phosphorus content were grouped into 16 co-expression modules. Six highly correlated modules were selected for GO enrichment analysis. Genes in the green module were significantly enriched in "response to stress" and "response to oxidative stress" signaling pathways, while genes in the turquoise module were significantly enriched in "cell response to stimulation" and "cell response to stress" pathways. Through further analysis of these two modules, we identified three core genes: endoglucan-1,3-β-glucosidase 3 (HORVU2Hr1G044440) and peroxidase 5 (HORVU1Hr1G023750 and HORVU1Hr1G016820). The identified three core genes above mentioned are involved in the regulation of abiotic stress. These results offer clues for further research on the molecular mechanism of barley's response to low phosphorus stress and genetic resources for breeding high-phosphorus-efficient crop varieties. The findings contribute to understanding how barley adapts to low-phosphorus environments and provide a basis for improving crop phosphorus-use efficiency.
Chitinase, a key enzyme family within the pathogenesis-related (PR) protein, plays a crucial role in plant defense by degrading chitin, a major component of fungal cell walls. The HvCHT genes in barley are involved in responses to biotic and abiotic stresses, although their full range of functions is not yet fully understood. In this study, we identified 24 potential HvCHT genes through a genome-wide analysis. The comparative synteny analysis showed conserved relationships between HvCHT genes and their homologs in Sorghum bicolor, Oryza sativa, and Arabidopsis thaliana. Chromosomal mapping, gene structure, characterization, protein motif analysis, and miRNA regulation were performed to gain insight into the genetic structures of these genes. Segmental duplication events observed in the HvCHT family suggest an important role in the evolutionary development of these genes. Additionally, cis-regulatory element analysis revealed the presence of light-responsive elements, and regulators for Abscisic acid, methyl jasmonate (MeJA), salicylic acid, and gibberellins, indicating potential involvement in stress responses. Transcriptomic data showed differential expression of HvCHT genes in response to salt stress, with distinct patterns observed in leaf and root tissues. Furthermore, the genes defensive responses to drought stress and Fusarium infection were characterized across multiple time points. Notably, qRT-PCR analysis confirmed the upregulation of HvCHT1, HvCHT4, and HvCHT17, highlighting their potential involvement in stress-related pathways. These findings provide a comprehensive overview of the HvCHT genes role in barley defense mechanisms, underlining their regulatory functions in biotic and abiotic stressors. The results lay the groundwork for future functional studies on HvCHT genes, with the potential to enhance stress tolerance in crops. Not applicable.
Drought poses a significant threat to global crop productivity and food security. In this study, we aimed to elucidate the impact of drought on transcriptional regulation and alternative splicing in barley (Hordeum vulgare), and to determine whether these transcriptomic alterations correlate with changes in hormonal profiles. We hypothesized that drought stress induces extensive reprogramming of gene expression, including alternative splicing events, and that these molecular responses are accompanied by tissue-specific shifts in hormone levels, ultimately underpinning adaptive responses in both leaves and roots. To test this, we performed RNA-seq and comprehensive hormone profiling on leaves and roots sampled at 25 days after planting under both optimal and drought conditions. Our analysis identified over 6,655 differentially expressed genes, with a substantial subset exhibiting differential alternative splicing. In leaves, drought primarily downregulated photosynthesis-related genes while upregulating pathways involved in water stress and abscisic acid (ABA) signaling. In contrast, roots displayed broader metabolic adjustments and significant isoform switching. Hormone analysis revealed marked ABA accumulation, particularly in roots, alongside organ-specific modulation of jasmonates and auxins. A limited assessment of the rhizosphere microbial community revealed low transcript abundance, underscoring the primacy of intrinsic plant responses. Collectively, these findings provide valuable insights into the multilayered adaptive strategies of barley under drought stress.
Abscisic acid (ABA) regulates key plant processes, including seed germination, dormancy, and abiotic stress responses. While its physiological role in germination is well-documented, the molecular mechanisms are still poorly understood. To address this, we analyzed transcriptomic and metabolomic changes in ABA-treated germinating barley (Hordeum vulgare) embryos. To map ABA-responsive gene expression across embryonic tissues, we employed the Visium Spatial Transcriptomics (10× Genomics). This approach, which remains technically challenging to be applied in plant tissues, enabled the precise localization of gene expression across six embryo regions, offering insights into tissue-specific expression patterns that cannot be resolved by traditional RNA-seq. Transcriptomic analysis indicated that ABA acts primarily as a germination repressor. Gene ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses linked ABA-inhibited genes to energy metabolism, lignin biosynthesis, cell wall organization, and photosynthesis, while induced genes were associated with environmental adaptation and phytohormone signaling. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) correlated with metabolites involved in phytohormone pathways, including gibberellins, jasmonates, brassinosteroids, salicylic acid, auxins, and ABA metabolism. Comparisons with developing seed transcriptomes suggested an ABA-associated gene expression signature in embryos. Spatial transcriptomics technique made possible the precise identification of ABA-induced transcriptional changes within distinct embryonic tissues. Integrating transcriptomics, metabolomics and spatial transcriptomics defined the molecular signature of ABA-induced modulation of phytohormonal crosstalk, energy metabolism, and tissue-specific gene activity in germinating seeds. The successful use of spatial transcriptomics adds a novel layer of resolution for understanding tissue-specific ABA responses during barley seed germination. These findings offer new insights into the ABA role in seed germination and potential strategies for enhancing crop resilience.
Plant architecture is a key determinant of crop yield, and understanding the genetic basis of its regulation is crucial for crop improvement. BLADE-ON-PETIOLE (BOP) genes are known to play a fundamental role in shaping plant architecture across diverse species. In this study, we demonstrate pleiotropic effects of the barley BOP gene Uniculme4 (Cul4) on various aspects of plant architecture, including plant height, culm diameter, and grain traits. Accordingly, Cul4 is broadly expressed in different tissues and developmental stages. Comparing transcriptome profiles of cul4 mutant and wild-type plants, we uncover a novel link between Cul4 and the jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthetic pathway. Our findings demonstrate that proper Cul4 function is required to repress JA biosynthesis, with cul4 mutants exhibiting increased levels of JA and its precursor 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid. Up-regulation of WRKY and bHLH transcription factors shows JA signalling is also impacted by Cul4. Additionally, our study sheds light on the role of Cul4 in flowering time regulation, potentially through its interaction with florigen-like genes. This research enhances our understanding of the mechanisms and pathways acting downstream of BOP genes.
Aluminum toxicity in acidic soils represents a significant environmental stressor that affects yields worldwide and is only expected to worsen. Breeding resistant varieties remains the most viable solution; however, fast and robust procedures to determine cultivar viability must be developed and applied to promising genotypes. This study explored historical and modern Lithuanian-bred barley cultivars using morphometrical and biochemical markers for Al resistance and sequence and expression analyses of potential candidate genes. Morphometric seedling measurements (relative root length reduction -13.65 ± 0.33% (
Salt stress is one of the major threats affecting crop yield. We assessed the behaviour of three barley genotypes, Ardhaoui, Manel, and Testour under 200 mM NaCl with the aim of evaluating the physiological and molecular mechanisms involved in barley salinity tolerance. Results revealed that salinity stress significantly decreases plant growth and water-holding capacity, particularly in the salt-sensitive genotype Testour. Tissue ionic content assessment demonstrated significantly distinct salinity-induced responses. The salt-tolerant genotype Ardhaoui accumulated more K
Plants employ peptide ligands to coordinate development and integrate environmental signals via dedicated cascades (#ref-0013). Epidermal patterning factor (EPF), plays a significant role in regulating stomatal density, seed germination and panicle development (#ref-0008). EPF/EPFL enhance drought tolerance by reducing stomatal density have been reported in multiple species, including Hordeum vulgare, Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus spp., Vitis vinifera, Sorghum bicolor and Brassica napus (#ref-0001). Our previous study has shown that EPF can mediate drought resistance in foxtail millet by regulating stomatal density (#ref-0004). Furthermore, evidence suggests that plants can regulate photosynthesis through stomatal modification, ultimately enhancing yield (#ref-0005). Beyond stomatal density regulation, the EPF/EPFL gene family modulates seed germination through phytohormone signalling and regulates inflorescence development via ligand-receptor interactions (#ref-0007). OsEPFLs act as upstream ligands for the OsER1 receptor, activating the MAPK signalling cascade to regulate panicle morphogenesis (#ref-0002). In this study, we sought to elucidate how SiEPF2 balances drought resistance and yield in foxtail millet by modulating stomatal density and panicle morphology. Our findings not only provide novel insights into SiEPF2's role in abiotic stress responses but also contribute valuable genetic resources for high-yield breeding programmes in millet crops.
Numerous quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and candidate genes associated with yield-related traits have been identified in barley by genome-wide association study (GWAS) analysis. However, genetic bottlenecks in elite cultivars have reduced diversity, limiting further yield improvements. Grain yield is a complex, polygenic trait shaped by genetic and environmental factors, necessitating integrative breeding approaches. While genomic selection, marker-assisted selection, and GWAS have identified key loci for yield-related traits, functional validation remains a significant challenge. A total of 346 QTLs for seven barley yield-related traits were identified in GWAS, including 93 stable QTLs across multiple environments. Two major-effect QTLs for spike length and thousand kernel weight, along with several moderate-effect QTLs, show potential for breeding. Candidate gene analysis revealed 134 highly expressed genes linked to stress response, transport, and metabolism. Notable genes include HORVU.MOREX.r3.5HG0514790 (growth and stress adaptation) and HORVU.MOREX.r3.2HG0212810 (seed storage protein). A total of eight presumably novel QTLs were identified. One of the novel QTLs, Hv_TKW_3H.5, had the strongest effect on total barley grain yield. The integration of favorable alleles from eight moderate- and major-effect QTLs significantly influenced the weight of kernels per spike. This study aimed to identify and characterize QTLs associated with barley yield-related traits through GWAS. Integrating genomic and transcriptomic methods suggests a promising strategy for genomic selection and marker-assisted breeding to enhance barley grain yield.
The large variety of inflorescence architectures evolved in grasses depends on shape, longevity and determinacy of meristems directing growth of the main and lateral axes. The CLAVATA pathway is known to regulate meristem size and inflorescence architecture in grasses. However, how individual meristem activities are determined and integrated to generate specific inflorescences is not yet understood. We found that activity of distinct meristems in the barley inflorescence is controlled by a signalling pathway comprising the receptor-like kinase Hordeum vulgare CLAVATA1 (HvCLV1) and the secreted CLAVATA3/EMBRYO-SURROUNDING REGION RELATED (CLE)-family peptide FON2-LIKE CLE PROTEIN1 (HvFCP1). HvFCP1 and HvCLV1 interact to promote spikelet formation, but restrict inflorescence meristem and rachilla proliferation. Hvfcp1 or Hvclv1 mutants generate additional rows of spikelets and supernumerary florets from extended rachilla activity. HvFCP1/HvCLV1 signalling coordinates meristem activity through regulation of trehalose-6-phosphate levels. Our discoveries outline a path to engineer inflorescence architecture via specific regulation of distinct meristem activities.
Two papers with quite different objectives established protocols that proved pivotal for future work on the role of gibberellins in seed germination. In their paper published in 1967, Russell Jones and Joseph Varner (Planta 72: 155-161) developed a bioassay based on induction of α-amylase activity in barley embryo-less half-seeds that was specific for bioactive gibberellins. The induction of α-amylase in the aleurone of barley and other cereals was to become the experimental system of choice to study gibberellin signalling. However, despite much progress in identifying the molecular events linking gibberellin action and α-amylase gene expression, in many cases their role in the process is still unclear. In 1987, Steven Groot and Cees Karssen (Planta 171:525-531) showed that germination of tomato seeds was limited by the ability of the radicle to penetrate the surrounding layers, with the endosperm forming the major barrier. They used a modified needle attached to a tensiometer to measure the force required to break through the endosperm. While in wild-type seeds, a factor from the embryo, assumed to be gibberellin, promoted breakdown of the endosperm, gibberellin-deficient seeds required an external supply of the hormone to weaken the endosperm or for it to be mechanically disrupted for germination to occur. The paradigm of seed germination being physically restricted by surrounding layers and the role of gibberellin in weakening these tissues has been confirmed in many eudicot species. Gibberellin signalling induces the production of cell-wall loosening enzymes in the micropylar endosperm adjacent to the radicle, but it is unclear whether or not this is a direct response. In both eudicot and monocot systems, there is still much to learn about the role of gibberellin signalling in germination.
Inducing embryogenic callus with regenerative potential is a pivotal step in barley transformation. Our previous research suggests that epigenetic regulatory factors might influence barley callus formation and regeneration capacity, though the exact mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we utilized RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and whole-genome bisulfite sequencing (WGBS) to examine transcriptional and DNA methylome alterations during callus induction from immature embryos of the barley cultivar Golden Promise. Our findings revealed a slight decline in overall DNA methylation content and distinct 5-methylcytosine (5mC) enrichment patterns in CG, CHG, and CHH sequence contexts within genes and transposable elements. By integrating DNA methylation and transcriptome data, we identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with differentially methylated regions (DMRs) in the CG (879 DEGs), CHG (229 DEGs), and CHH (2020 DEGs) contexts. Notably, DMRs linked to 210, 94, and 1,214 DEGs were located in the 2 kb upstream regions in the CG, CHG, and CHH contexts, respectively. A negative correlation was observed between promoter methylation levels and transcript abundances of key regeneration-associated genes, such as HvKRP4, HvCYCD1;1, HvSCR, HvRAP2.6L/ERF113, HvWIND4, HvWOX5, HvE2Fa, HvPHV, and HvLBD16. This indicates a regulatory function of DNA methylation in transcriptional regulation during callus induction. Furthermore, treatment with the DNA methylation inhibitor 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-dC) suppressed callus formation. Comparative RNA sequencing analysis between control and treated groups revealed 2,628 and 1,224 DEGs potentially regulated by DNA methylation, at 2- and 9-days post-induction, respectively. These genes were primarily associated with cell cycle and abscisic acid signalling pathways, influenced directly and indirectly by the global reduction in DNA methylation induced by 5-Aza-dC treatment. This study provides insights into the intricate relationship between DNA methylation and gene expression during barley callus formation. It could inform future efforts to enhance regeneration and transformation in this significant crop species. Not applicable.
Abscisic acid (ABA)-stress-ripening, or ABA-, stress-, and ripening-induced (ASR) proteins play an important role in responses to environmental stimuli. A total of ten barley
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major constraint on crop productivity in acid soils, with barley being particularly susceptible. In our previous transcriptomic analysis, we identified HvAIR12 (AUXIN INDUCED IN ROOT CULTURES), a novel gene that is specifically induced by Al in the roots of the Al-tolerant Tibetan wild barley accession XZ16. In this study, we performed comprehensive physiological, transgenic, and molecular analyses to explore the role of HvAIR12 in Al tolerance. HvAIR12 encodes a plasma membrane-bound protein and is predominantly expressed in the roots, with its expression being strongly upregulated by Al exposure. Knockdown of HvAIR12 resulted in significantly reduced root growth and increased Al accumulation, whereas overexpression of HvAIR12 elevated H
Abscisic acid (ABA) is a phytohormone that mediates plant responses to drought stress by regulating stomatal conductance, gene expression, and photosynthetic efficiency. Although ABA-induced stress priming has shown the potential to improve drought tolerance, the molecular mechanisms underlying ABA pretreatment effects remain poorly understood. This study aimed to determine how ABA pre-treatment at the booting stage influences physiological and molecular responses to drought at the heading stage in barley. The ABA-treated plants exhibited earlier stomatal closure, increased expression of ABA-responsive genes (HvNCED1, HvBG8, and HvA22), and maintained higher chlorophyll levels under drought conditions. Photosynthetic parameters, including photosystem II activity, electron transport rate, and the number of active reaction centers, were preserved in ABA-pretreated plants compared with drought-only plants. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that ABA pre-treatment primed plants for faster activation of stress-responsive pathways, with enhanced expression of genes related to chromatin modifications, RNA metabolism, and ABA signaling during drought. Importantly, Alternative splicing (AS) and isoform switching were significantly amplified in ABA-pretreated plants, underscoring a unique molecular mechanism of ABA priming that enhances drought resilience. Post-stress recovery analysis revealed a greater number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and alternatively spliced transcripts (DAS) in ABA-pretreated plants, particularly those involved in chromatin organization and photosynthesis. Physiological analyses demonstrated that time- and dose-optimized ABA applications improved yield parameters, including grain weight and seed area, while mitigating spike sterility under drought conditions. This study demonstrates that ABA pretreatment enhances drought resilience in barley by triggering early stomatal closure, preserving chlorophyll content, and maintaining photosynthetic performance under water stress. At the molecular level, ABA priming accelerates stress-response pathways, promoting alternative splicing, isoform switching, and chromatin modifications that enable transcriptome plasticity. These processes facilitate faster recovery and sustain critical yield components, such as spike number and grain weight, when ABA is applied at optimized timing and concentrations. While large-scale ABA application poses challenges, this study provides a framework for breeding and agronomic strategies to mimic ABA effects, offering a practical path to enhance drought tolerance and yield stability in barley.
The WUSCHEL-related homeobox (WOX) is a transcription factor family specific to plants, playing a key role in the initiation and maintenance of meristematic tissue, organ formation and response to abiotic stress. Here we identified 14-15 WOX genes in four Hordeum species, conducted their phylogenetic tree, determined their chromosome locations and gene structures, and analyzed their collinearity and cis-acting elements in promoters. Presence Absence Variation (PAV) analysis revealed that certain WOX genes in the four Hordeum species were lost and expanded. Duplication analysis discovered five types of duplications contributing to the formation of WOX genes, with dispersed duplication (DSD) being the main type in four Hordeum species. WOXs belonging to DSD exhibited a high number of long terminal repeat retrotransposons (LTR-RTs), indicating the potential role of LTR-RTs in the formation of WOX genes of the DSD type. Evaluation of Ka/Ks values showed that all WOX genes have undergone purification selection, with varying degrees among different clades of WOX genes. Furthermore, through pan-transcriptome analysis and quantitative experiments, we identified a common gene clade and the WOX13 co-expression networks responding to saline stress. Survival ratio statistics of Arabidopsis thaliana complementation lines under salt treatment suggested that HvWOX13 may play a crucial role in regulating salt tolerance. These findings provide new insights into evolutionary studies of WOX gene family and offer valuable gene resources for breeding crops with enhanced salt stress resistance.
Nitrogen (N) fertilisers increase crop yields; however, excessive application reduces nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) and causes environmental pollution, highlighting the urgent need for sustainable agricultural practices. This study investigated the response of tiller-related traits to nitrogen availability during barley domestication and breeding, aiming to identify genetic resources with high NUE. A total of 305 barley accessions were analyzed under two nitrogen levels, focusing on six tiller-related traits and their relationship with nitrogen supply. Domestication reduced tillers per plant (TPP) and nonproductive tillers per plant (NTPP), while breeding increased spikes per plant (SPP), proportion of productive tillers (PPT), and Spike-response to nitrogen (SRN). SRN was used as a key indicator to evaluate spike development under varying nitrogen conditions. Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) and RNA-seq analysis identified HvNLP4 as a key candidate gene regulating SRN, with haplotype analysis revealing that HvNLP4
High ambient temperature (HT) impairs reproductive development and grain yield in temperate crops. To ensure reproductive success under HT, plants must maintain developmental stability. However, the mechanisms integrating plant development and temperature resistance are largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that PHOTOPERIOD 1 (PPD-H1), homologous to PSEUDO RESPONSE REGULATOR genes of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) circadian clock, controls developmental stability in response to HT in barley (Hordeum vulgare). We analyzed the HT responses in independent introgression lines with either the ancestral wild-type Ppd-H1 allele or the natural ppd-h1 variant, selected in spring varieties to delay flowering and enhance yield under favorable conditions. HT delayed inflorescence development and reduced grain number in ppd-h1 mutant lines, while the wild-type Ppd-H1 genotypes exhibited accelerated reproductive development and showed a stable grain set under HT. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing of Ppd-H1 demonstrated that the CONSTANS, CO-like, and TOC1 domain of Ppd-H1 controls developmental stability, but not clock gene expression. Transcriptome and phytohormone analyses in developing leaves and inflorescences revealed increased expression levels of stress-responsive genes and abscisic acid levels in the leaf and inflorescence of the natural and induced mutant ppd-h1 lines. Furthermore, the ppd-h1 lines displayed downregulated photosynthesis- and energy metabolism-related genes, as well as decreased auxin and cytokinin levels in the inflorescence, which impaired anther and pollen development. In contrast, the transcriptome, phytohormone levels, and anther and pollen development remained stable under HT in the wild-type Ppd-H1 plants. Our findings suggest that Ppd-H1 enhances stress resistance and energy metabolism, thereby stabilizing reproductive development, floret fertility, and grain set under HT.
Brassinosteroids (BRs) are phytohormones which regulate various developmental processes in plants. They are exceptional phytohormones, as they do not undergo long-distance transport between plant organs. However, knowledge about the function of the enzymes that catalyse BR biosynthesis (particularly its early stages) in cereal crops remains limited. Therefore, this study identifies and analyses the function of the HvDWARF5 (HvDWF5) gene, involved in the early stage of BR biosynthesis in barley (Hordeum vulgare), an important cereal crop, using the TILLING (Targeting Induced Local Lesions IN Genomes) approach. The detailed functional analysis allowed for the identification of various mutations in different gene fragments. The influence of these mutations on plant architecture, reproduction, and yield was characterised. Moreover, effects of the missense and intron retention mutations on sequence and splicing of the HvDWF5 transcript, sequence and predicted structure of the encoded HvDWF5 enzyme, and accumulation of endogenous BR were determined. Some of the barley mutants identified in this study showed semi-dwarfism, a trait of particular importance for cereal breeding and yield. However, unlike other BR mutants in cereals, this did not negatively affect grain size or weight. It indicated that mutations in this gene allow for a balance between plant height reduction and maintenance of grain size. Thus, the results of this study provide a novel insight into the role of the HvDWF5 gene in the BR biosynthesis-dependent regulation of architecture and reproduction of the important cereal crop - barley.
Organic and inorganic nutrients, osmotic components, associated protein cofactors, and signaling molecules regulate biotic and abiotic stresses in plants. Earlier reports suggest that plant cells activate anion channels and induce the efflux of anions at the plasma membrane under drought. Herein,
Alternative splicing (AS) provides flexible strategies for plants to cope with abiotic stress, but how AS regulates drought response in barley (Hordeum vulgare) remains poorly understood. This study investigates the genome-wide AS patterns in drought-sensitive (Baudin) and tolerant barley genotypes (Tadmor, EC_S1) during drought and recovery stages. Baudin showed maximal AS events during drought, while tolerant genotypes activated AS predominantly during recovery. Drought-tolerant EC_S1 exhibited differential AS events enriched in metabolic pathways, amino acid biosynthesis, and chromatin remodeling. WGCNA analysis identified eight modules linked to stomatal dynamics, biomass, and ROS scavenging, with the 'MEmidnightblue' module (related to stoma and ROS regulation) being drought-responsive. A drought-inducible splice variant, LHCA4.2b, was exclusively identified in tolerant genotypes. Silencing HvLHCA4.2a (lhca4.2a) and dual-silencing HvLHCA4.2a + b (lhca4.2a + b) drastically impaired drought tolerance, manifesting as wilting, accelerated water loss, reduced biomass, and elevated electrolyte leakage, coupled with chlorophyll degradation, ROS overaccumulation, and malondialdehyde overproduction. Enhanced stress sensitivity in lhca4.2a + b versus lhca4.2a underscores HvLHCA4.2b's critical role. Additionally, lhca4.2a + b displayed ABA-insensitive stomata with unaltered stomatal conductance under drought or exogenous ABA, implicating LHCA4.2b in ABA signaling. Mechanistically, AS-generated LHCA4.2b isoform enhances PSI-LHCI super-complex stability through strengthened interaction interfaces with LHCA1, thereby improving energy transfer efficiency and reducing ROS generation. This isoform simultaneously coordinates ABA signaling by elevating ABF1/ABF3 transcription factors while suppressing ABI3/ABI4/ABI5 repressors, collectively modulating stomatal closure and ROS homeostasis. Our findings elucidate AS-mediated drought adaptation mechanisms in barley and highlight HvLHCA4.2b as a potential target for breeding drought-tolerant cultivars.
In response to environmental changes, plants continuously make architectural changes in order to optimize their growth and development. The regulation of plant branching, influenced by environmental conditions and affecting hormone balance and gene expression, is crucial for agronomic purposes due to its direct correlation with yield. Strigolactones (SL), the youngest class of phytohormones, function to shape the architecture of plants by inhibiting axillary outgrowth. Barley plants harboring the mutation in the HvDWARF14 (HvD14) gene, which encodes the SL-specific receptor, produce almost twice as many tillers as wild-type (WT) Sebastian plants. Here, through hormone profiling and comparison of transcriptomic and proteomic changes between 2- and 4-week-old plants of WT and hvd14 genotypes, we elucidate a regulatory mechanism that might affect the tillering of SL-insensitive plants. The analysis showed statistically significant increased cytokinin content and decreased auxin and abscisic acid content in 'bushy' hvd14 compared to WT, which aligns with the commonly known actions of these hormones regarding branching regulation. Further, transcriptomic and proteomic analysis revealed a set of differentially expressed genes (DEG) and abundant proteins (DAP), among which 11.6% and 14.6% were associated with phytohormone-related processes, respectively. Bioinformatics analyses then identified a series of potential SL-dependent transcription factors (TF), which may control the differences observed in the hvd14 transcriptome and proteome. Comparison to available Arabidopsis thaliana data implicates a sub-selection of these TF as being involved in the transduction of SL signal in both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants.
Pot size is a critical factor in plant growth experiments, influencing root architecture, nutrient uptake, and overall plant development as well as sensing of stress. In controlled environments, variation in pot size can impact phenotypic and molecular outcomes and may bias experimental results. Here, we investigated how pot size affects the root system architecture and molecular responses of two barley genotypes, the landrace BERE and the modern elite CONCERTO, through assessment of shoot and root traits and by using X-ray computed tomography complemented by transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses. The two genotypes showed distinctly different adaptations to changes in pot size. The landrace showed greater stability and adaptability with consistent root traits and enhanced accumulation of osmoprotectant metabolites across different pot sizes with respect to CONCERTO. Conversely, the elite line was more sensitive to pot size variations, particularly showing altered root architecture and transcriptomic responses. Overall, this study highlights the importance of selecting an appropriate pot size for plant growth experiments, particularly when focused on root traits, and highlights the importance of considering the physiological and molecular changes due to growth environment choice in experimental design in barley.
Diverse plant species detect bacterial flagellin using leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinases to activate defense responses and promote resistance against bacterial invasion. In barley, the impact of flagellin on inducible defense responses has not been fully described. Here, we report that the flagellin-derived flg22 peptide induces callose, reactive oxygen species (ROS) bursts, and differential expression of 2,603 genes in barley. Cultivated barley genotypes produce different amplitudes of flg22-induced ROS bursts, indicating genetic variation for microbe-associated molecular pattern responses. Association mapping revealed a region on chromosome 7 underlying variation in flg22-induced ROS bursts, which contains 12 flg22-induced genes. Genotypes with higher flg22 responses had higher induced resistance to
Lipids play crucial roles in plant-microbe interactions, functioning as structural components, signaling molecules, and microbe-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs). However, the mechanisms underlying lipid perception and signaling in plants remain largely unknown. Here, we investigate the immune responses activated in barley (Hordeum vulgare) by lipid extracts from the beneficial root endophytic fungus Serendipita indica and compare them to responses elicited by chitohexaose and the fungal sterol ergosterol. We demonstrate that S. indica lipid extract induces hallmarks of pattern-triggered immunity (PTI) in barley. Ergosterol emerged as the primary immunogenic component and was detected in the apoplastic fluid of S. indica-colonized barley roots. Notably, S. indica colonization suppresses the ergosterol-induced burst of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in barley. By employing a multi-omics approach, which integrates transcriptomics, phosphoproteomics, and metabolomics, we provide evidence for the phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol phosphate (PIP) metabolic enzymes and activation of diterpene biosynthesis upon exposure to fungal lipids. Furthermore, we show that phosphatidic acid (PA) enhances lipid-mediated apoplastic ROS production in barley. These findings indicate that plant lipids facilitate immune responses to fungal lipids in barley, providing new insights into lipid-based signaling mechanisms in plant-microbe interactions.
Plant acclimation occurs through system-wide mechanisms that include proteome shifts, some of which occur at the level of protein synthesis. All proteins are synthesized by ribosomes. Rather than being monolithic, transcript-to-protein translation machines, ribosomes can be selective and cause proteome shifts. In this study, we use apical root meristems of germinating seedlings of the monocotyledonous plant barley as a model to examine changes in protein abundance and synthesis during cold acclimation. We measured metabolic and physiological parameters that allowed us to compare protein synthesis in the cold to optimal rearing temperatures. We demonstrated that the synthesis and assembly of ribosomal proteins are independent processes in root proliferative tissue. We report the synthesis and accumulation of various macromolecular complexes and propose how ribosome compositional shifts may be associated with functional proteome changes that are part of successful cold acclimation. Our study indicates that translation initiation is limiting during cold acclimation while the ribosome population is remodelled. The distribution of the triggered ribosomal protein heterogeneity suggests that altered compositions may confer 60S subunits selective association capabilities towards translation initiation complexes. To what extent selective translation depends on heterogeneous ribo-proteome compositions in barley proliferative root tissue remains a yet unresolved question.This article is part of the discussion meeting issue 'Ribosome diversity and its impact on protein synthesis, development and disease'.
Heat stress, exacerbated by global warming, threatens food security by disrupting plant growth and productivity across many regions. The present study compared the transcriptome changes of heat-tolerant wild (Hordeum vulgare ssp. spontaneum L.) genotype and heat-sensitive cultivated Hordeum ('Mona' cultivar) barley subjected to control (24 ± 2 °C) and heat stress (40 ± 2 °C, 3 h) conditions via RNA sequencing with the Illumina Hiseq2500 platform. The wild barley genotype exhibited less impact from heat stress on growth and physiology than the 'Mona' cultivar. Heat stress led to 2141 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the heat-tolerant wild genotype and 1456 in the 'Mona' cultivar. Gene ontology enrichment analysis of the DEGs revealed that biological processes such as defense response to heat stress, proline and polyamine biosynthesis, and oxidative stress scavenging were predominantly involved in the thermo-tolerance of wild barley. Moreover, heat shock proteins, osmoprotectants, and catalytic activity were identified as the most critical molecular functions in response to high temperatures in wild barley. The significant alterations in the expression levels of candidate genes in response to heat stress highlight these genes' pivotal role in the thermo-tolerance of wild barley compared to the heat-sensitive 'Mona' cultivar. Comparing the evolved mechanisms in response to high temperatures between wild and cultivated barley helps identify the effective heat tolerance mechanisms in the thermo-tolerant wild genotype.
Gγ subunits participate in multiple biological processes, but their biological function in barley is unknown. Here, CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing was used to knockout HvGS3 in barley. The height of hvgs3 plants were reduced by 37.8 ~ 43.1% compared to wild type, and the culm lodging resistance index (CLRI) of the second internode of stems was increased by 76.6%. The decrease in cell length of the second internode was similar to its node length. The shorter cells may be the main reason for the declines in the internode length and plant height. The number and area of vascular bundles, the epidermal thickness, and the mechanical tissue thickness were significantly higher in hvgs3 due to the higher lignin content. Transcriptome analysis showed higher expression of structural genes related to lignin biosynthesis. Gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis was suppressed through the down-regulation of the GA3ox gene, and the application of gibberellin restored the plant height of hvgs3, indicating that plant height was altered by hindering gibberellin biosynthesis. These results shed new light on the functions of the Gγ subunit GS3 and provide a resource for breeding new lodging-resistant barley cultivars.
Pulsed electric field (PEF) has previously been recognized as a method of gentle food processing, and its use has been shown to be helpful in reducing the levels of toxigenic
The female germline of flowering plants develops within a niche of sporophytic (somatic) ovule cells, also referred to as the nucellus. How niche cells maintain their own somatic developmental programme, yet support the development of adjoining germline cells, remains largely unknown. Here we report that MADS31, a conserved MADS-box transcription factor from the B-sister subclass, is a potent regulator of niche cell identity. In barley, MADS31 is preferentially expressed in nucellar cells directly adjoining the germline, and loss-of-function mads31 mutants exhibit deformed and disorganized nucellar cells, leading to impaired germline development and partial female sterility. Remarkably similar phenotypes are observed in mads31 mutants in wheat, suggesting functional conservation within the Triticeae tribe. Molecular assays indicate that MADS31 encodes a potent transcriptional repressor, targeting genes in the ovule that are normally active in the seed. One prominent target of MADS31 is NRPD4b, a seed-expressed component of RNA polymerase IV/V that is involved in epigenetic regulation. NRPD4b is directly repressed by MADS31 in vivo and is derepressed in mads31 ovules, while overexpression of NRPD4b recapitulates the mads31 ovule phenotype. Thus, repression of NRPD4b by MADS31 is required to maintain ovule niche functionality. Our findings reveal a new mechanism by which somatic ovule tissues maintain their identity and support germline development before transitioning to the post-fertilization programme.
A spontaneous barley mutant, young leaf chlorina (ylc), was identified in this study. Young leaves of ylc exhibited a yellow base and green tip, with reduced chlorophyll content, and altered chlorophyll fluorescence pattern, and underdeveloped grana in chloroplasts. The color of mutant leaves gradually transitioned to pale green and then became green in mature leaves. The ylc phenotype was found to be controlled by a recessive locus mapped to a 2.4 Mb interval on chromosome 7HS using bulked-segregant analysis with deep sequencing and further fine mapped to a 410 kb interval using polymorphic markers. The YLC locus co-segregated with a molecular marker that led to identification of HORVU7Hr1G011570 as the most likely candidate gene. As compared to the barley reference genome, the candidate ylc allele contained nucleotide changes that would lead to functional alterations of its protein product. The candidate YLC gene encodes a DYW-type pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) protein, implicated in RNA cleavage and RNA editing in chloroplasts. Chlorophyll fluorescence analysis suggests that the PPR protein may regulate chloroplast development through the function of NAD(P)H dehydrogenase (NDH) complex and plays a pivotal role in mediating electron flow in thylakoid membranes during leaf growth in barley.
Lateral organ boundaries (LOB) domain (LBD) genes encode a family of transcription factors ubiquitous in higher plants, playing crucial roles in the growth, development, and stress responses.
Ca We examined the expression patterns of 4246 genes that had previously been shown to be differentially expressed upon H Our study indicates that about 70% of the H
Powdery mildew fungi are serious pathogens affecting many plant species. Their genomes encode extensive repertoires of secreted effector proteins that suppress host immunity. Here, we revised and analyzed the candidate secreted effector protein (CSEP) effectome of the powdery mildew fungus, Blumeria hordei (Bh). We identified seven putative effectors that are broadly conserved in powdery mildew species, suggesting that they are core effectors of these phytopathogens. We showed that one of these effectors, CSEP0214, interacts with the barley (Hordeum vulgare) vacuolar protein-sorting 18 (VPS18) protein, a shared component of the class C core vacuole/endosome tethering (CORVET) and homotypic fusion and protein-sorting (HOPS) endosomal tethering complexes that mediate fusion of early endosomes and multivesicular bodies, respectively, with the central vacuole. Overexpression of CSEP0214 and knockdown of either VPS18, HOPS-specific VPS41, or CORVET-specific VPS8 blocked the vacuolar pathway and the accumulation of the fluorescent vacuolar marker protein (SP)-RFP-AFVY in the endoplasmic reticulum. Moreover, CSEP0214 inhibited the interaction between VPS18 and VPS16, which are both shared components of CORVET as well as HOPS. Additionally, introducing CSEP0214 into barley leaf cells blocked the hypersensitive cell death response associated with resistance gene-mediated immunity, indicating that endomembrane trafficking is required for this process. CSEP0214 expression also prevented callose deposition in cell wall appositions at attack sites and encasements of fungal infection structures. Our results indicate that the powdery mildew core effector CSEP0214 is an essential suppressor of plant immunity.
It is generally believed that refined grains lack nutritional value compared to whole grains. The objective of this study was to investigate whether refined highland barley (RHB) holds the potential to combat obesity-associated insulin resistance. Thirty-two male 6-week-old C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into four groups fed with a normal chow diet, a high-fat diet (HFD), a 30% RHB supplemented HFD diet, and a 30% whole-grain highland barley (WGHB) supplemented HFD diet. We examined the anti-obesity and anti-insulin resistance effects of RHB and compared them with WGHB in mice. RHB intervention effectively improved obesity and insulin resistance, enhanced the intestinal mucosal barrier, and reduced inflammation. Moreover, it promoted the abundance of beneficial gut bacteria such as Akkermansia, Bifidobacterium, Lachnospiraceae_NK4A136_group, Lachnospiraceae_UCG-001, Alloprevotella, and increased the production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) in faeces. Additionally, RHB intervention modulated liver gene transcription, downregulating inflammatory genes like IRF3/7, STAT1/2, NLRP3, and TLR2. RHB could effectively alleviate obesity-related insulin resistance by targeting gut microbiota and liver transcriptomics, and its beneficial impacts are comparable to those of WGHB.
The two-component system (TCS) serves as a common intracellular signal transduction pathway implicated in various processes of plant development and response to abiotic stress. With regard to the important cereal crop barley, only partial information about the occurrence of TCS signaling elements in the genome and putative functions is available. In this study, we identified a total of 67 non-redundant TCS genes from all subgroups of the phosphorelay in the latest barley reference genome. Functional annotation and phylogenetic characterization was combined with a comprehensive gene expression analysis of the signaling components. Expression profiles hint at potential functions in vegetative and reproductive organs and tissue types as well as diverse stress responses. Apparently, a distinct subset of TCS genes revealed a stringent grain-specificity not being expressed elsewhere in the plant. By using laser capture microdissection (LCM)-based transcript analysis of barley grain tissues, we refined expression profiles of selected TCS genes and attributed them to individual cell types within the grain. Distinct TCS elements are exclusively expressed in the different maternal and filial cell types, particularly in the endosperm transfer cell (ETC) region. These genes are deemed to be selected in the domestication process of modern cultivars. Moreover, barley plants transformed with a synthetic sensor (TCSn::GFP) showed a high and specific activity in the ETC region of grains monitoring transcriptional output of the signaling system. The results provide comprehensive insights into the TCS gene family in the temperate cereal crop barley and indicate implications in various agronomic traits. The dataset is valuable for future research in different aspects of plant development and will be indispensable not only for barley, but also for other crops of the Poaceae.
We applied a systems biology approach to gain a deep insight into the regulatory mechanisms of barley (Hordeum vulgare ) under drought and waterlogging stress conditions. To identify informative models related to stress conditions, we constructed meta-analysis and two distinct weighted gene co-expression networks. We then performed module trait association analyses. Additionally, we conducted functional enrichment analysis of significant modules to shed light on the biological performance of underlying genes in the two contrasting stresses. In the next step, we inferred the gene regulatory networks between top hub genes of significant modules, kinases, and transcription factors (TFs) using a machine learning algorithm. Our results showed that at power=10, the scale-free topology fitting index (R2) was higher than 0.8 and the connectivity mean became stable. We identified 31 co-expressed gene modules in barley, with 13 and 14 modules demonstrating significant associations with drought and waterlogging stress, respectively. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that these stress-responsive modules are involved in critical processes, including ADP-rybosylation factors (ARF) protein signal transduction, ethylene-induced autophagy, and phosphoric ester hydrolase activity. Specific TFs and kinases, such as C2C2-GATA, HB-BELL, and MADS-MIKC, were identified as key regulators under these stress conditions. Furthermore, certain TFs and kinases established unique connections with hub genes in response to waterlogging and drought conditions. These findings enhance our understanding of the molecular networks that modulate barley's response to drought and waterlogging stresses, offering insights into the regulatory mechanisms essential for stress adaptation.
We identified several new TILLING mutants of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) with missense mutations in the HvNAC8 gene, a homolog of the SUPPRESSOR OF GAMMA RESPONSE 1 (SOG1) gene in Arabidopsis thaliana. In Arabidopsis, SOG1 is the primary regulator of the DNA Damage Response (DDR) pathway. We aimed to transfer this knowledge to barley, an agriculturally important crop. Our detailed analysis of the hvnac8.k mutant revealed an impaired DDR pathway. The hvnac8.k mutant accumulates DNA damage under genotoxic stress induced by zeocin, but it also shows increased DNA damage under normal growth conditions. Despite this, the frequency of dividing cells in the root meristem of the mutant treated with zeocin is much less affected than in the wild type. This suggests that the mutant bypasses the typical DDR regulation, where cell division is halted to allow DNA repair following damage. We also analyzed our mutant under aluminum (Al³⁺) stress. Aluminum ions, present in acidic soils that constitute approximately 50 % of arable land, are a common stressor that significantly reduce barley yield. Al³ ⁺ is known to cause DNA damage and activate DDR. Consequently, we aimed to assess whether the hvnac8.k phenotype could confer a beneficial effect under aluminum stress, a widespread agronomic challenge. Our findings suggest that modulation of the DDR pathway has the potential to improve aluminum tolerance in barley.
Co-evolution between cereals and pathogenic grass powdery mildew fungi is exemplified by sequence diversification of an allelic series of barley resistance genes encoding Mildew Locus A (MLA) nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat (NLR) immunoreceptors with an N-terminal coiled-coil domain (CNLs). Each immunoreceptor recognises a matching, strain-specific powdery mildew effector encoded by an avirulence gene (AVR
About 30-40% of the world land is acidic in nature, aluminum (Al) and manganese (Mn) toxicity co-existed in acidic soils that pose a potential threat in crop production. Antagonistic relationship between Al and Mn was previously described in our study. In the present work, we determined the biochemical mechanism which regulate antagonistic interaction between Al or Mnco-application. The experiment consisted of 9 treatments including co-application of Al and Mn. Overall, we conclude that increasing exogenous Al or Mn concentration negatively affected phenol and flavonoid contents, increased lignin and callose content, disturbed cell ultra-structure in barley genotypes, with sensitive genotype ZU9 being more affected than XZ16. Mn did not influence organic acids secretion and down regulated Mn tolerance genes and organic acid exudation linked genes while Al addition induced the expression of OAs linked genes, OAs secretion were activated and upregulated Mn tolerance genes. Furthermore, co treatments of Al and Mn restored the abnormalities induced by sole Al or Mn application.
Stomatal aperture is driven by changes in turgor of the guard cells that surround the stomatal pore. Epidermal cells immediately surrounding the guard cells are thought to contribute to the kinetics of aperture changes through changes in their turgor that opposes the guard cells and thought their putative roles in solute storage for use by the guard cells. Nonetheless, our knowledge remains fragmentary of surrounding cell mechanics, in large part because the tools and strategies needed to target the surrounding cells independent of the guard cells are limited. Here, we have analyzed sets of promoters for
Partial root-zone drying irrigation (PRD) has been widely employed to regulate crop root development and responses to environmental fluctuations. However, its role in reprogramming rhizospheric microorganisms and inducing plant stress tolerance remains largely unexplored. This study aimed to investigate the effects of PRD on the response of barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants to low temperatures under various irrigation regimes. Under low temperature, barley plants subjected to PRD exhibited a significantly enhanced net photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance, and maximum quantum efficiency of photosystem II compared to fully irrigated plants. Additionally, these plants showed a reduction in relative conductance. These results suggest that PRD could be a viable strategy for enhancing crop stress tolerance through irrigation management. Metabolomic analysis revealed that PRD influenced the accumulation of glutathione and 9-octadecenamide in roots under low temperature, which was corroborated by transcriptome profiling data. Furthermore, the study highlighted the close association between this regulatory process and rhizosphere core microorganisms, such as Sphingobium and Mortierella, enriched in barley roots under PRD. This study revealed the mechanism underlying plant stress tolerance induction by PRD and the roles of rhizosphere microorganisms in this process. Also, the current study suggests that PRD is a promising strategy for enhancing crop stress tolerance through effective irrigation management.
Phytochromes are essential photoreceptors in plants that sense red and far-red light, playing a vital role in regulating plant growth and development through light signal transduction. Despite extensive research on phytochromes in model plants like
In whole grains, phenolics are covalently bound to cell-wall dietary fibers, forming nonextractable bound phenolics. Enhancing the release of bound phenolics has garnered significant attention to improve the nutritional value of whole grains. Our findings revealed that fermentation of raw barley dietary fiber with
A pan-transcriptome describes the transcriptional and post-transcriptional consequences of genome diversity from multiple individuals within a species. We developed a barley pan-transcriptome using 20 inbred genotypes representing domesticated barley diversity by generating and analyzing short- and long-read RNA-sequencing datasets from multiple tissues. To overcome single reference bias in transcript quantification, we constructed genotype-specific reference transcript datasets (RTDs) and integrated these into a linear pan-genome framework to create a pan-RTD, allowing transcript categorization as core, shell or cloud. Focusing on the core (expressed in all genotypes), we observed significant transcript abundance variation among tissues and between genotypes driven partly by RNA processing, gene copy number, structural rearrangements and conservation of promotor motifs. Network analyses revealed conserved co-expression module::tissue correlations and frequent functional diversification. To complement the pan-transcriptome, we constructed a comprehensive cultivar (cv.) Morex gene-expression atlas and illustrate how these combined datasets can be used to guide biological inquiry.
The advanced molecular tools provide critical inputs in uncovering the regulatory mechanisms underlying plants' adaptation to abiotic stress. Presented holistic studies were done on the barley crown tissue being essential for plant performance under various environmental stimuli. To investigate the effect of brassinosteroids (BRs), the known players in stress management, on molecular response of this tissue to drought, the genotypes with different BRs signal transduction efficiency were employed. Large-scale transcriptomic and proteomic profiling confirmed the specific re-modeling of behavior of the BRs-insensitive barley uzu1.a mutant under drought. On the other hand, a set of genes expressed independently of the genotype was identified, including dehydrin encoding genes. This study also uncovered the candidate genes to be linkers of phytohormones crosstalk. Importantly, we detected the converging upregulation of several proteins and encoding genes under drought, including late embryogenesis abundant proteins and chaperones; they represent a promising target for cereals' improvement. Moreover, the greatest variation between genotypes in accumulation of BRs in the crown tissue exposed to drought was observed for castasterone. Presented multi-omics, high-throughput results enhanced the understanding of molecular response to drought in crown tissue. The new insight was provided into the relationships between gene expression, protein and phytohormone content in barley plants of different BRs signaling.
TaWI12 is a member of the wound-induced (WI) protein family, which has been implicated in plant stress responses and developmental processes. Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) is a crucial staple crop upon which human sustenance relies. Consequently, investigating the developmental mechanisms of pistils and stamens in wheat is profoundly significant for enhancing wheat characteristics and boosting productivity. In this study, we cloned TaWI12, from common wheat and observed a significant resemblance among the three homoeologs of TaWI12. The open reading frames (ORFs) of TaWI12-4A, TaWI12-4B and TaWI12-4D were 408 bp, 417 bp and 417 bp, respectively, and encoded 135, 138 and 138 amino acids, respectively. The phylogenetic tree revealed a high degree of homology between the protein sequences of TaWI12 and the wound-induced proteins of Hordeum vulgare (KAI4994568) and Aegilops tauschii (XP_020196548). To clarify the characteristics and functions of TaWI12 homoeologs, we obtained transgenic positive plants of Arabidopsis thaliana and observed significant filament shortening and decrease. Simultaneously, we used the CRISPR/Cas9 system to generate mutant plants via the modification of three homoeologs of TaWI12 in wheat. We noticed two distinct phenotypic differences in the knockout mutant. First, we observed the different degrees of homologous conversion of stamens to pistils in the single mutant TaWI12-4D. Second, we observed leaf cracking in both the single mutant TaWI12-4A and the double mutants TaWI12-4A and TaWI12-4D. Our findings further revealed that TaWI12 plays an important role in flower development, which is important for revealing the molecular mechanisms of pistil and stamen development in wheat and has important application value for high-yield wheat breeding.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is an important cereal crop used in animal feed, beer brewing, and food production. Waterlogging stress is one of the prominent abiotic stresses that has a significant impact on the yield and quality of barley. Seed germination plays a critical role in the establishment of seedlings and is significantly impacted by the presence of waterlogging stress. However, there is a limited understanding of the regulatory mechanisms of gene expression and metabolic processes in barley during the germination stage under waterlogging stress. This study aimed to investigate the metabolome and transcriptome responses in germinating barley seeds under waterlogging stress. The findings of the study revealed that waterlogging stress sharply decreased seed germination rate and seedling growth. The tolerant genotype (LLZDM) exhibited higher levels of antioxidase activities and lower malondialdehyde (MDA) content in comparison to the sensitive genotype (NN). In addition, waterlogging induced 86 and 85 differentially expressed metabolites (DEMs) in LLZDM and NN, respectively. Concurrently, transcriptome analysis identified 1776 and 839 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in LLZDM and NN, respectively. Notably, the expression of genes associated with redox reactions, hormone regulation, and other biological processes were altered in response to waterlogging stress. Furthermore, the integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses revealed that the DEGs and DEMs implicated in mitigating waterlogging stress primarily pertained to the regulation of pyruvate metabolism and flavonoid biosynthesis. Moreover, waterlogging might promote flavonoid biosynthesis by regulating 15 flavonoid-related genes and 10 metabolites. The present research provides deeper insights into the overall understanding of waterlogging-tolerant mechanisms in barley during the germination process.
Cold acclimation and vernalization represent the major evolutionary adaptive responses to ensure winter survival of temperate plants. Due to climate change, mild winters can paradoxically worsen plant winter survival due to cold deacclimation induced by warm periods during winter. It seems that the ability of cold reacclimation in overwintering Triticeae cereals is limited, especially in vernalized plants. In the present review, the major factors determining cold acclimation (CA), deacclimation (DA) and reacclimation (RA) processes in winter-type Triticeae, namely wheat and barley, are discussed. Recent knowledge on cold sensing and signaling is briefly summarized. The impacts of chilling temperatures, photoperiod and light spectrum quality as the major environmental factors, and the roles of soluble proteins and sugars (carbohydrates) as well as cold stress memory molecular mechanisms as the major plant-based factors determining CA, DA, and RA processes are discussed. The roles of plant stress memory mechanisms and development processes, namely vernalization, in winter Triticeae reacclimation are elucidated. Recent findings about the role of O-glucose N-acetylation of target proteins during vernalization and their impacts on the expression of VRN1 gene and other target proteins resulting in cold-responsive modules reprogramming are presented.
Most plant pathogens secrete effector proteins to circumvent host immune responses, thereby promoting pathogen virulence. One such pathogen is the fungus
This research aimed to evaluate the effect of triple-frequency ultrasound treatment (TFUT), germination (GE), and traditional soaking (TS) methods on the nutritional and techno-functional properties of two different barley varieties, including ZQ2000 and XMLY22. Both ZQ2000 and XMLY22 varieties exhibited the highest total phenolic content (TPC) with 840.73 ± 23.59 μg of GAE/g DW and 720.33 ± 30.56 μg of GAE/g DW, and total flavonoid content (TFC) with 520.79 ± 23.45 μg of QUE/g DW and 420.84 ± 19.80 μg of QUE/g DW, respectively. Enzyme activities, such as peroxidase (POD) and polyphenol oxidase (PPO), were notably elevated, indicating enhanced defense mechanisms. The study also found increased γ-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA) levels and antidiabetic potential through inhibition of α-amylase and α-glucosidase enzymes. Further, gene expression analysis revealed differential regulation of phenylpropanoid pathway genes, contributing to the bioactive compound enhancement. Strong intermolecular interactions were observed in both ZQ2000 and XMLY22 samples subjected to TFUT, GE, TFUT + GE, and TS, as validated by FTIR and molecular docking analyses. The structural configuration of two barley types, ZQ2000 and XMLY22, was determined using Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, which indicated an increase in α-helix and β-sheet conformation and a decrease in random coil conformation in samples treated with TFUT + GE. Moreover, SEM observation provides convincing evidence that TFUT + GE improves and speeds up the breakdown of ZQ2000's internal structures. Conclusively, this study suggests that the combination of ultrasound and germination treatments significantly enhances the functional properties of barley, making it a promising method for creating health-enhancing barley-based products offering potential applications in functional food development.
Barley leaf stripe, a disease mainly caused by Pyrenophora graminea (P. graminea) infection, severely affects barley yield and quality and is one of the most widespread diseases in barley production. However, little is known about the underlying molecular mechanisms of leaf stripe resistance. In this study, the transcript expression profiles of normal and infected leaves of resistant Tibetan hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum Hook. f.) variety Kunlun 14 and susceptible variety Z1141 were analyzed by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). The results showed a total of 7,669 and 5,943 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were found in resistant and susceptible Kunlun 14 and Z1141, respectively, with 8,916 DEGs found between Kunlun 14 and Z1141. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis of the 8,916 DEGs identified many significantly enriched categories and pathways, of which a plant-pathogen interaction pathway, containing a total of 102 genes (100 known genes and two novel genes), was found, that was very important for the study of the leaf stripe resistance mechanism. Using RNA-seq, small RNA sequencing (miRNA-seq) combined with degradome sequencing (degradome-seq), four pairs associated with leaf-stripe miRNAs and target genes were obtained, namely Hvu-miR168-5p and Argonaute1 (HvAGO1), Hvu-novel-52 and growth-regulating factor 6 (HvGRF6), Hvu-miR6195 and chemocyanin-like protein (CLP), and Hvu-miR159b and gibberellin-dependent MYB (GAMYB). Transformation of the important target gene HvAGO1 into Arabidopsis verified that HvAGO1 could against Botrytis cinerea. Then RNA-seq and miRNA-seq of Arabidopsis transformed with overexpressed of HvAGO1 were performed. Based on the above research results, we constructed a Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) network of barley leaf stripe resistance. This study lays the foundation for the study of the barley leaf stripe resistance mechanism and provides new targets for the genetic improvement of disease-resistant barley varieties.
To explore variation patterns of uptake, translocation, and accumulation processes responding to organophosphate esters (OPEs) among Poaceae plants, hydroponic and computer simulation experiments were executed. Plant growth, OPEs' concentration, and bioinformation and transcript of lipid transporters in the three terrestrial barley, wheat, and maize and aquatic rice seedlings were studied after exposure to seven OPE congeners. Four types of plants could accumulate seven OPE congeners. OPEs could promote rice growth by upregulating IAA27 hormone gene. However, maize growth was inhibited due to upregulating IAA17 hormone gene. In general, OPEs with log K
Salinization poses a significant challenge in agriculture. Identifying salt-tolerant plant germplasm resources and understanding their mechanisms of salt tolerance are crucial for breeding new salt-tolerant plant varieties. However, one of the primary obstacles to achieving this goal in crops is the physiological complexity of the salt-tolerance trait. In a previous study, we developed a salt-tolerant barley doubled haploid (DH) line, designated as DH20, through mutagenesis combined with microspore culture, establishing it as an idea model for elucidating the mechanisms of salt tolerance. In this study, ion homeostasis, key osmotic agents, antioxidant enzyme activities and gene expression were compared between Hua30 (the original material used as a control) and DH20. The results indicated that under salt treatment, DH20 exhibited significantly higher shoot fresh and dry weight, relative plant height, shoot K
Plants are increasingly exposed to stress-induced factors, including heavy metals. Zinc, although it is a microelement, at high concentrations can be phytotoxic to plants by limiting their growth and development. The presented research confirmed the inhibition effect of Zn on morphological and physiological parameters in barley plants. However, the effect was Zn dose dependent (50 µM, 100 µM, and 200 µM), as well as part of the plants (above ground or roots). To mitigate the negative effects of Zn, plants were sprayed with 0.1% silicon. Silicon was proven to have a positive effect on mitigating the inhibitory effects of Zn-induced stress. In most cases, an increase in both morphological (length, elongation, fresh and dry weights, and weather content) and physiological (relative chlorophyll content and fluorescence) parameters was observed. This occurrence was dependent on the Zn dose. Epigenetic analyses confirmed differences in the DNA methylation level, both between plants subjected to stress at different strengths (50 µM, 100 µM, and 200 µM Zn) and between plants sprayed with Si or not. The differences indicate that silicon affects the epigenome of barley plants, thereby modifying the response of plants to stress factors. This modification may be the basis for plants to acquire resistance as "epigenetic memory".
Drought, as an abiotic stressor, globally limits cereal productivity, leading to early aging of leaves and lower yields. The expression of the isopentenyl transferase (IPT) gene, which is involved in cytokinin (CK) biosynthesis, can delay drought-induced leaf senescence. In this study, the Agrobacterium Isopentenyl transferase (IPT) gene was introduced into two local hexaploid wheat cultivars, NR-421 and FSD-2008. The expression cassette was developed containing the IPT gene under transcriptional regulation of the stress-inducible promoter 'Dehydrin,' sourced from Hordeum vulgare. The gene expression cassette was assembled in pSB219M, a modified transformation vector for monocots, equipped with both an antibiotic (spectinomycin) and an herbicide selection marker (BASTA). Initial screening of transgenic plants involved BASTA selection (2 and 3 mg/L) and was subsequently confirmed through PCR analysis. The transformation efficiencies of NR-421 and FSD-2008 were 0.4% and 0.3%, respectively. The qRT-PCR analysis under stress conditions showed a 13.5-fold higher expression of the IPT gene in T
Chitosan (CS), derived from the partial deacetylation and hydrolysis of chitin, varies in the degree of deacetylation, molecular weight, and origin, influencing its biological effects, including antifungal properties. In plants, CS triggers immune responses and stimulates biomass growth. Previously, we found that the antifungal activity of CS was strongly dependent on its physicochemical properties. This study revealed that the chitosan batch CS_10 with the strongest antifungal activity also effectively activated plant immune responses and promoted biomass growth. Barley treated with CS_10 exhibited systemic acquired resistance (SAR), characterized by micronecrotic reactions upon
Global climate change leads to the increased occurrence of environmental stress (including drought and heat stress) during the vegetative and reproductive stages of cereal crop development. Thus, more attention should be given to developing new cereal cultivars with improved tolerance to environmental stress. However, during the development of new stress-tolerant cereal cultivars, the balance between improved stress responses (which occur at the expense of growth) and plant yield needs to be maintained. Thus, the urgent need for developing new cereal germplasm with improved stress tolerance could be fulfilled using semidwarf cereal mutants defective in brassinosteroid (BR) biosynthesis or signaling. BRs are steroid phytohormones that regulate various developmental and physiological processes throughout the plant life cycle. Mutants defective in BR biosynthesis or responses show reduced plant height (dwarfism or semi-dwarfism). Importantly, numerous reports indicate that genetic modification or biotechnological manipulation of BR biosynthesis or signaling genes in cereals such as rice (Oryza sativa), maize (Zea mays), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and barley (Hordeum vulgare), which are of crucial importance for global agriculture, may facilitate the development of cereal germplasm with improved stress tolerance. This review presents a comprehensive overview of the genetic manipulation of BR homeostasis in the above-mentioned cereal crops aimed at improving plant responses to various environmental stresses, such as drought, salinity, oxidative stress, thermal stress, and biotic stresses. We highlight target BR-related genes and the effects of genetic manipulation (gene editing, overexpression, and silencing or microRNA-mediated regulation) on plant adaptability to various stresses and provide future perspectives.
Tryptophan decarboxylase (TDC) belongs to a family of aromatic amino acid decarboxylases and catalyzes the conversion of tryptophan to tryptamine. It is the enzyme involved in the first step of melatonin (MT) biosynthesis and mediates several key functions in abiotic stress tolerance. In Oryza sativa under pesticide-induced stress, TDC function is unclear. Three TDC differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and six TDC-coding genes were found to be expressed in fluroxypyr-meptyl (FLUME)-treated rice transcriptome datasets, which allowed researchers to explore the properties and roles of rice TDC family genes under pesticide-induced stress. By applying sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis, two subfamilies of the TDC gene family-DUF674 and AAT_I-were found in rice, Glycine max, Zea mays, Hordeum vulgare, and Solanum lycopersicum. According to chromosomal location studies, segmental duplication aided in the expansion of the OsTDC gene family, and the three TDC DEGs in rice were irregularly distributed on two of its 12 chromosomes. In addition, nine rice TDC genes displayed a collinear relationship with those of soybean, maize, barley, and tomato. Rice TDC genes can encode a variety of biotic and abiotic stress responses because of their diverse gene architectures, cis-elements, motif compositions, and conserved domains. Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) analysis confirmed that a proportion of TDC genes (Os08g0140300, Os08g0140500, and Os10g0380800) were preferably expressed under 0.08 mg L
Plant inflorescences are complex, highly diverse structures whose morphology is determined in meristems that form during reproductive development. Inflorescence structure influences flower formation, and consequently grain number, and yield in crops. Correct inflorescence and flower development require tight control of gene expression via complex interplay between regulatory networks. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as fundamental modulators of gene expression at the transcriptional and/or post-transcriptional level in plant inflorescence development. First discovered more than three decades ago, miRNAs have proved to be revolutionary in advancing our mechanistic understanding of gene expression. This review highlights current knowledge of downstream target genes and pathways of some highly conserved miRNAs that regulate the maintenance, identity, and activity of inflorescence and floral meristems in economically and agriculturally important grass species, including rice (Oryza sativa), maize (Zea mays), barley (Hordeum vulgare), and wheat (Triticum aestivum). Furthermore, we summarize emerging regulatory networks of miRNAs and their targets to suggest new avenues and strategies for application of miRNAs as a tool to enhance crop yield and performance.
The barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) uses its genomic RNA components (alpha, beta, and gamma) as an efficient method for studying gene functions. It is a newly developed method that utilizes gene transcript suppression to determine the role of plant genes. BSMV derived from virus induced gene silencing (VIGS) is capable of infecting various key farming crops like barley, wheat, rice, corn, and oats. Nevertheless, the growing acceptance and enhancement of BSMV-VIGS will benefit all kinds of plants. Abiotic stresses such as drought and salt are highly affecting plant growth, development, and production. BSMV-induced temporal gene knockdown is performed during particular stressful situations to determine their specific function. The quick physiological and biochemical changes aid in confirming the role of the target genes. VIGS has a significant role to improve crop genetics and breeding, despite having certain restrictions. Thus, exploring the possible solution and addressing these difficulties will enhance the technology in the continuous advancement of plant manufacturing. BSMV-mediated VIGS has become popular in functional genomics; gene function can be determined without permanent transformation. In general, BSMV-mediated VIGS will be very helpful in the ongoing effort to develop resilient crops.
The awn is a bristle-like extension from the tip of the lemma in grasses. In barley, the predominant cultivars possess long awns that contribute to grain yield and quality through photosynthesis. In addition, various awn morphological mutants are available in barley, rendering it a useful cereal crop to investigate the mechanims of awn development. Here, we identified the gene causative of the short and crooked awn (sca) mutant, which exhibits a short and curved awn phenotype. Intercrossing experiments revealed that the sca mutant induced in the Japanese cultivar (cv.) "Akashinriki" is allelic to the independently isolated moderately short-awn mutant breviaristatum-a (ari-a). Map-based cloning and sequencing revealed that SCA encodes the Polycomb group-associated protein EMBRYONIC FLOWER 1. We found that SCA affects awn development through the promotion of cell proliferation, elongation, and cell wall synthesis. RNA sequencing of cv. Bowman backcross-derived near-isogenic lines of sca and ari-a6 alleles showed that SCA is directly or indirectly involved in promoting the expression of genes related to awn development. Additionally, SCA represses various transcription factors essential for floral organ development and plant architecture, such as MADS-box and Knotted1-like homeobox genes. Notably, the repression of the C-class MADS-box gene HvMADS58 by SCA in awns is associated with the accumulation of the repressive histone modification H3K27me3. These findings highlight the potential role of SCA-mediated gene regulation, including histone modification, as a novel pathway in barley awn development.
In barley having adherent hulls, an irreversible connection between the pericarp with both palea and lemma is formed during grain maturation. A mutation in the
Blue barley grain pigmentation results from anthocyanin accumulation in the aleurone layer. Anthocyanins are known for their beneficial effects on human health. The gene encoding the MYELOCYTOMATOSIS 2 (MYC2) transcription factor is potentially responsible for the blue coloration of the aleurone. In non-pigmented barley, a single nucleotide insertion in this gene causes a frameshift mutation with a premature stop codon. It was hypothesized that restoring the
The barley powdery mildew disease caused by the biotrophic fungus Blumeria hordei (Bh) poses enormous risks to crop production due to yield and quality losses. Plants and fungi can produce and release volatile organic compounds (VOCs) that serve as signals in plant communication and defense response to protect themselves. The present study aims to identify VOCs released by barley (Hordeum vulgare) during Bh-infection and to decipher VOC-induced disease resistance in receiver plants. VOC profiles of susceptible MLO wild type (MLO WT) and a resistant near-isogenic backcross line (mlo5) were characterized over time (one day or three days after Bh inoculation) using TD-GC/MS. Comparative analysis revealed genotype-dependent VOC profiles and significant differences in emission rates for β-caryophyllene, linalool, (Z)-3-hexenol, and methyl salicylate. Furthermore, susceptible barley plants were exposed to the complex VOC bouquet of MLO WT or mlo5 sender plants in plant-to-plant communication. We found that VOC-induced resistance in receiver plants depended on the sender genotype in a Bh susceptibility assay. Additionally, untargeted metabolomics and gene expression studies provide evidence toward an SA-dependent pathway mediating VOC-induced resistance against powdery mildew. The exogenous application of methyl salicylate resulted in the enhanced expression of the BARLEY CHEMICALLY INDUCED-4 marker gene and induced resistance in receiver plants. The findings suggest genotype-dependent alterations in barley VOC profiles during biotrophic plant-fungus interactions and show a VOC-mediated resistance that shares components with salicylic acid-related pathways. The VOC signals identified here could serve as non-invasive markers for disease progression in barley-powdery mildew interactions and as signals for resistance induction in recipient plants.
The Myeloblastosis related (MYB) family is one of the most widely distributed transcription factor families in plants and plays a significant role in plant growth and development, hormone signal transduction, and stress response. There are many reports on MYB family species, but the research on Qingke is still limited. This study used comparative genomics methods to analyze gene and protein structure, protein physicochemical properties, chromosome localization, and evolution. A bioinformatics approach was used to systematically analyze the HvMYB gene family. At the milk stage, soft dough stage, and mature stage, White and Blue Qingke grains were selected for RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), among which two proteins interacted (HvMYB and HvMYC). The expression of this gene family was analyzed through RNA-seq, and the expression levels of A total of 92 Qingke
Overexpression of HvbHLH132 from hulless barley impairs in chilling and freezing tolerance at the seedlings stage in Arabidopsis thaliana The basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors (TF) are ubiquitously existed in eukaryote and play crucial roles in numerous biological processes. However, the characterization of their members and functions in hulless barley remains limited. Here, we conducted a genome-wide identification of the HvbHLH gene family and assessed the role of HvbHLH132 in cold stress tolerance. We identified 141 HvbHLH genes, which were categorized into twelve subfamilies. Subcellular localization predictions indicated that the majority of HvbHLH proteins were localized in the nucleus. cis-Acting element analysis revealed that the promoter regions of the HvbHLH family contain diverse elements associated with various biological processes. Expression profiling of the 141 HvbHLH genes in two extreme varieties revealed that HvbHLH132 was significantly induced and exhibited substantial differential expression under cold stress. Analyses of subcellular localization and transactivation activity confirmed that HvbHLH132 specifically localized in the nucleus and contributed to transcriptional activation. Furthermore, overexpression of HvbHLH132 in Arabidopsis resulted in impaired chilling and freezing tolerance at the seedling stage, leading to biochemical changes unfavorable for freezing stress. Additionally, the expression of some cold-responsive genes (COR) genes was significantly less induced compared to wild type under freezing stress. This study provides comprehensive insight into the HvbHLH gene family and reveals a critical role of HvbHLH132 in regulating cold tolerance in plants.
Phased, small interfering RNAs (PhasiRNAs) play a crucial role in supporting male fertility in grasses. Earlier work in maize (Zea mays) and rice (Oryza sativa)-and subsequently many other plant species-identified premeiotic 21-nucleotide (nt) and meiotic 24-nt phasiRNAs. More recently, a group of premeiotic 24-nt phasiRNAs was discovered in the anthers of 2 Pooideae species, barley (Hordeum vulgare) and bread wheat (Triticum aestivum). Whether premeiotic 24-nt phasiRNAs and other classes of reproductive phasiRNAs are conserved across Pooideae species remains unclear. We conducted comparative RNA profiling of 3 anther stages in 6 Pooideae species and 1 Bambusoideae species. We observed complex temporal accumulation patterns of 21-nt and 24-nt phasiRNAs in Pooideae and Bambusoideae grasses. In Bambusoideae, 21-nt phasiRNAs accumulated during meiosis, whereas 24-nt phasiRNAs were present in both premeiotic and postmeiotic stages. We identified premeiotic 24-nt phasiRNAs in all 7 species examined. These phasiRNAs exhibit distinct biogenesis mechanisms and potential Argonaute effectors compared to meiotic 24-nt phasiRNAs. We show that specific Argonaute genes coexpressed with stage-specific phasiRNAs are conserved across Bambusoideae and Pooideae species. Our degradome analysis identified a set of conserved miRNA target genes across species, while 21-nt phasiRNA targets were species-specific. Cleavage of few targets was observed for 24-nt phasiRNAs. In summary, this study demonstrates that premeiotic 24-nt phasiRNAs are present across Bambusoideae and Pooideae families, and the temporal accumulation of other classes of 21-nt and 24-nt phasiRNA differs between bamboo and Pooideae species. Furthermore, targets of the 3 classes of phasiRNAs may be rapidly evolving or undetectable.
The remobilization of stored assimilates from stems to seeds plays a pivotal role in augmenting barley yield, particularly under water stress conditions. This study examines the molecular mechanisms underlying stem reserve utilization by conducting a comparative analysis of the proteome and metabolome across three barley contrasting genotypes: Yousef, Morocco, and PBYT17. Evaluations were performed at 21 and 28 days after anthesis (DAA) under both water stress and control conditions. The results indicate that the Yousef genotype exhibits superior remobilization of stem reserves, thereby demonstrating its potential to thrive even in adverse environmental conditions. Utilizing advanced quantitative proteomics and targeted metabolomics, this investigation identified a significant number of metabolites and proteins exhibiting differential accumulation across the genotypes. Specifically, 17 metabolites and 1580 proteins were catalogued, highlighting the intricate biochemical responses to water stress. Noteworthy enzymes such as sucrose synthase, inositol monophosphatase 3, and galactokinase were found to be closely associated with remobilization efficiency. In the drought-tolerant genotype, these enzymes maintained stable levels, in stark contrast to the decline observed in the susceptible genotype. This stability is crucial for promoting seed development through ascorbic acid synthesis and for mitigating oxidative stress, which is exacerbated by drought conditions. The elevated levels of certain metabolites, including glucose 6-phosphate, and UDP-glucose, in the drought-tolerant genotype suggest a robust mechanism for maintaining signalling molecules for carbon availability, which is then instrumental in regulating plant growth and seed size development. The findings from this study strongly imply that the drought-tolerant genotype, through enhanced antioxidant capacity, can effectively produce energy-rich storage compounds, thereby optimizing carbon allocation under water stress. Such insights are invaluable for future breeding strategies aimed at improving barley resilience in the face of climate variability.
Drought is one of the most devastating abiotic stresses worldwide, which severely limits crop yield. Tibetan wild barley is a treasure trove of useful genes for crop improvement including drought tolerance. Here, we detected large-scale changes of gene expression in response to drought stress with a substantial difference among contrasting Tibetan barley genotypes XZ5 (drought-tolerant), XZ54 (drought-sensitive) and cv. Tadmor (drought-tolerant). Drought stress led to upregulations of 142 genes involved in transcription, metabolism, protein synthesis, stress defense, transport and signal transduction in XZ5, but those genes were down-regulated or unchanged in XZ54 and Tadmor. We identified and functionally characterized a novel multiple organellar RNA editing factors 8 (HvMORF8), which was up-regulated by drought stress in XZ5, but unchanged in XZ54 and Tadmor under drought stress. Phylogenetic analysis showed that orthologues of HvMORF8 can be traced back to the closest gymnosperm species such as Cycas micholitzii, implicating a potential evolutionary origin for MORF8 from a common ancestor in early seed plants. Virus-induced HvMORF8 silencing in XZ5 led to hypersensitivity to drought stress, demonstrating it is a positive regulator of drought tolerance in barley. RNA sequencing of BSMV:HvMORF8 and control plants reveals that silencing of HvMORF8 suppresses genes involved in osmolytes transport, cell wall modification and antioxidants, resulting in water metabolism disorder and overaccumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) under drought stress. Therefore, we propose HvMORF8-mediated regulatory drought tolerance mechanisms at transcriptomic level in XZ5, providing new insight into the genetic basis of plastid RNA editing function of HvMORF8 for barley drought tolerance.
A major locus for spike compactness and length was mapped on chromosome 7H and its pleiotropic effects, candidate genes and transcriptional regulatory network were analyzed. Spike compactness (SC) and length (SL) are important traits of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) due to their close association with grain yield. In this study, a major SC and SL locus QSc/Sl.cib-7H was primarily identified on chromosome 7H by bulked segregant analysis, and further fine mapped to a recombination cold spot expanding 244.36-388.09 Mb by developing a secondary population using residual heterozygous lines. This region is much more accurate than previously reported spike compactness loci on chromosome 7H. The strong effects of QSc/Sl.cib-7H on SL and SC were validated in two pair of near isogenic lines (NILs) and diverse genetic backgrounds. QSc/Sl.cib-7H exhibited pleiotropic effects on plant height (PH), thousand grain weight and grain length, and did not significantly influence the spikelet number of main spike (SMS) and grain width. Transcriptome analysis based on NILs showed that regulation of SC and SL might be related to the plant circadian rhythm pathway. The candidate genes were mined by analyzing variants and expression patterns of genes in the target region employing multiple genome and transcriptome data. This study takes a further step towards cloning of QSc/Sl.cib-7H, and the data obtained and the developed molecular markers will facilitate its utilization in barley breeding.
Miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) constitute a class of class II transposable elements (TEs) that are abundant in plant genomes, playing a crucial role in their evolution and diversity. Barley (
Existence of potent in vitro regeneration system is a prerequisite for efficient genetic transformation and functional genomics of crop plants. In this study, two contrasting cultivars differencing in their in vitro regeneration efficiency were identified. Tissue culture friendly cultivar Golden Promise (GP) and tissue culture resistant DWRB91(D91) were selected as contrasting cultivars to investigate the molecular basis of regeneration efficiency through multiomics analysis. Transcriptomics analysis revealed 1487 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), in which 795 DEGs were upregulated and 692 DEGs were downregulated in the GP-D91 transcriptome. Genes encoding proteins localized in chloroplast and involved in ROS generation were upregulated in the embryogenic calli of GP. Moreover, proteome analysis by LC-MS/MS revealed 3062 protein groups and 16,989 peptide groups, out of these 1586 protein groups were differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Eventually, GC-MS based metabolomics analysis revealed the higher activity of plastids and alterations in key metabolic processes such as sugar metabolism, fatty acid biosynthesis, and secondary metabolism. TEM analysis also revealed differential plastid development. Higher accumulation of sugars, amino acids and metabolites corresponding to lignin biosynthesis were observed in GP as compared to D91. A comprehensive examination of gene expression, protein profiling and metabolite patterns unveiled a significant increase in the genes encompassing various functions, such as ion homeostasis, chlorophyll metabolic process, ROS regulation, and the secondary metabolic pathway. Multi omics analysis revealed differential chloroplast activity play crucial role in providing in vitro regeneration capability in contrasting genotypes.
Pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins, found in plants, play a crucial role in responding to both biotic and abiotic stresses and are categorized into 17 distinct families based on their properties and functions. We have conducted a phylogenetic analysis of
Genome-wide identification and comparative gene-family analyses have commonly been performed to investigate species-specific evolution linked to various traits and molecular pathways. However, most previous studies have been limited to gene screening in a single reference genome, failing to account for the gene presence/absence variations (gPAVs) in a species. Here, we propose an innovative pangenome-based approach for gene-family analyses based on orthologous gene groups (OGGs). Using the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor family in barley as an example, we identified 161-176 bHLHs in 20 barley genomes, which can be classified into 201 OGGs. These 201 OGGs were further classified into 140 core, 12 softcore, 29 shell, and 20 line-specific/cloud bHLHs, revealing the complete profile of bHLH genes in barley. Using a genome-scanning approach, we overcame the genome annotation bias and identified an average of 1.5 un-annotated core bHLHs per barley genome. We found that whole-genome/segmental duplicates are predominant mechanisms contributing to the expansion of most core/softcore bHLHs, whereas dispensable bHLHs are more likely to result from small-scale duplication events. Interestingly, we noticed that the dispensable bHLHs tend to be enriched in the specific subfamilies SF13, SF27, and SF28, implying the potentially biased expansion of specific bHLHs in barley. We found that 50% of the bHLHs contain at least 1 intact transposon element (TE) within the 2-kb upstream-to-downstream region. bHLHs with copy-number variations (CNVs) have 1.48 TEs on average, significantly more than core bHLHs without CNVs (1.36), supporting a potential role of TEs in bHLH expansion. Analyses of selection pressure showed that dispensable bHLHs have experienced clear relaxation of selection compared with core bHLHs, consistent with their conservation patterns. We also integrated the pangenome data with recently available barley pantranscriptome data from 5 tissues and discovered apparent transcriptional divergence within and across bHLH subfamilies. We conclude that pangenome-based gene-family analyses can better describe the previously untapped, genuine evolutionary status of bHLHs and provide novel insights into bHLH evolution in barley. We expect that this study will inspire similar analyses in many other gene families and species.
Mixed-linkage (1,3; 1,4)-β-D-glucan (MLG) impacts the food and industrial end-uses of barley, but the molecular mechanism of variations in MLG content remains unclear. MLG content usually increases in Waxy-mutated barley. This study applied transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analyses to Waxy-mutated recombinant inbred lines with higher MLG content and wild-type lines with lower MLG content, and identified candidate genes and pathways regulating MLG content through combining preliminary gene function analysis. MLG biosynthesis differed significantly during late grain development in the Waxy-mutated and wild-type barley lines. The MLG increase was closely associated with strongly active sugar and starch metabolism and stress-responsive plant hormones, particularly abscisic acid (ABA) signaling process. Stress-responsive transcript factors ILR3, BTF3, RGGA, and PR13 protein bind to CslF6, which is critical for barley MLG biosynthesis, and the stress-responsive gene ASR1 also had a positive effect on MLG increase. Waxy mutation enhances barley stress responses by activating ABA- or other stress-responsive plant hormones signaling processes, which facilitates MLG biosynthesis. This study provides a new approach for elucidating the variations in MLG content of barley grains.
Nitrogen (N) is a critical element for plant growth and development. Hence, improving nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) is vital for reducing costs and the environmental impact of agricultural practices. Understanding the genetic control of N metabolism is crucial to improve NUE, especially in agronomically important plants, such as barley (Hordeum vulgare). Using bioinformatics and functional genomics tools, we identified and characterized sixteen barley nitrogen metabolism-related gene families (HvNMGs) on a genome-wide scale, analysing gene features and evolution. These genes, located on six of seven barley chromosomes, are highly conserved in plants (including barley, rice, and Arabidopsis), as shown by phylogenetic analysis. We further explored the evolutionary relationships of NMGs through a genome-to-genome synteny analysis, which indicated higher conservation of NMGs between barley and other monocots, suggesting that these orthologous pairs predate species divergence. Protein-protein interaction analyses revealed that all of the HvNMGs show interactions, mainly with each other. The H. vulgare miRNAs target sites (hvu-miR) prediction identified six hvu-miR in 4 HvNMGs (HvGABA-T2, HvALDH10-1, HvALDH10-2 and HvARGAH), indicating their potential involvement in stress responses. The expression patterns analysis of publicly available RNA-seq data revealed that HvNMGs are expressed in all developmental stages of barley, and they respond to different stress conditions, indicating their essential role in plant growth, development and stress response. The organ-specific expression analysis, conducted using qPCR, of HvNMGs revealed higher expression of HvNiR and HvNRs in the leaf and significantly higher expression of HvARGAH and HvALDH10 in the spike than in other tissues, showing that some of the genes may be particularly important in some tissues than others. This data provides a foundation for understanding HvNMG function and could be used to improve barley yield by enhancing NUE - an important goal for both crop productivity and environmental sustainability.
Plant biomass can significantly contribute to alternative energy sources. Sorghum bicolor is a promising plant for producing energy, but is susceptible to iron deficiency, which inhibits its cultivation in iron-limiting calcareous soils. The molecular basis for the susceptibility of sorghum to iron deficiency remains unclear. Here, we explored the sorghum genome to identify genes involved in iron uptake and translocation. Iron deficiency-responsive gene expression was comparable to that in other graminaceous plants. A nicotianamine synthase gene, SbNAS1, was induced in response to iron deficiency, and SbNAS1 showed enzyme activity. Sorghum secreted 2'-deoxymugineic acid and other phytosiderophores under iron deficiency, but their levels were relatively low. Intercropping of sorghum with barley or rice rescued iron deficiency symptoms of sorghum. To produce bioengineered sorghum with enhanced tolerance to iron deficiency, we introduced four cassettes into sorghum: 35S promoter-OsIRO2 for activation of iron acquisition-related gene expression, SbIRT1 promoter-Refre1/372 for enhanced ferric-chelate reductase activity, and barley IDS3, and HvNAS1 genomic fragments for enhanced production of phytosiderophores and nicotianamine. The resultant single sorghum line exhibited enhanced secretion of phytosiderophores, increased ferric-chelate reductase activity, and improved iron uptake and leaf greenness compared with non-transformants under iron-limiting conditions. Similar traits were also conferred to rice by introducing the four cassettes. Moreover, these rice lines showed similar or better tolerance in calcareous soils and increased grain iron accumulation compared with previous rice lines carrying two or three comparable cassettes. These results provide a molecular basis for the bioengineering of sorghum tolerant of low iron availability in calcareous soils.
Awns in barley have different shapes including awnless, straight, hooded, crooked, and leafy awns. The hooded awns are characterized by an appendage of the lemma, which forms a trigonal or cap-shaped structure, and even blossoms and yields fruits on barley awn. In the lemma primordia of wild-type (straight awn), cells divide and elongate to form the straight awn. However, in the lemma primordia of KNOX3 mutant (hooded awn), cells divide at various orientations without elongating, and they form hooded awns. This phenomenon is due to the upregulation of KNOX3 expression via insertion of a tandem direct duplication of 305 bp in the intron IV. Here, we summarize the development of barley hooded awn research in the following two aspects: on the one hand, the morphology, development of hooded awns, and the expression regulation of the KNOX3 gene. The latter includes ectopic expression of the KNOX3 gene, gene interactions among awn-related genes, the regulatory relationship between class I KNOX genes and hormones, as well as the influence of abiotic stresses. On the other hand, the potential performance of hooded awns in barley for yield breeding is discussed. Hooded awns have potential application value in forage, which could compensate for the disadvantage of the long straight awn in the barley straw used for feed in modern cultivars. In addition, the hooded awn produces ectopic meristems to develop complete florets, which is an interesting question and helps to understand the development, adaptation, and evolution of plant floral organs.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is widely cultivated across diverse soil types, including acidic soils where aluminum (Al) toxicity is the major limiting factor. The relative Al sensitivity of barley highlights the need for a deeper understanding of early molecular responses in root tip (the primary target of Al toxicity) to develop Al-tolerant cultivars. Integrative N
Plant responses to stress caused by high temperatures involve changes occurring at the molecular, metabolic, and physiological levels. Understanding the mechanisms by which plants recognize signals to activate this response is a prerequisite for identifying key genes and signaling pathways and for obtaining heat-tolerant plants. We demonstrated the first implementation of an assay for transposase-accessible chromatin to identify open chromatin regions (OCRs) in crown tissues of barley using three genotypes carrying different allelic forms of the sdw1 gene encoding gibberellin 20-oxidase subjected to elevated temperatures. In parallel, we performed gene expression analysis, which allowed us to relate changes in chromatin state to changes in transcriptional activity. The obtained data revealed that the hypersensitive chromatin regions within the genes were more repeatable than those outside the gene intervals. We observed that prolonged exposure to high temperatures increased chromatin accessibility. Genes with OCRs in their regulatory regions were involved in stress signaling and tolerance, including calcium-dependent protein kinase, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK3), receptor-like cytoplasmic kinase (RLK), TIFY domain-containing transcriptional regulator, bZIP transcription factor, and regulatory protein NPR1. The effect of genotype on gene expression was not as pronounced as that of temperature. By combining results from the differential analysis of chromatin accessibility and expression profiles, we identified genes with high temperature-induced changes in chromatin accessibility associated with expression alterations. Importantly, our data revealed a relationship between the loss of chromatin accessibility in response to heat and the downregulation of genes related to gibberellin signaling.
The present study investigates the impact of varying concentrations of PVC microplastics (PVC-MPs) - specifically 0 (no PVC-MPs), 2, and 4 mg L
Plant A/T-rich protein and zinc-binding protein (PLATZ) transcription factors are pivotal regulators in various aspects of plant biology, including growth, development, and responses to environmental stresses. While PLATZ genes have been extensively studied and functionally characterized in various plants, limited information is available for these genes in barley. Here, we discovered a total of 11 PLATZ genes distributed across seven chromosomes in barley. Based on phylogenetic and conserved motif analysis, we classified PLATZ into five subfamilies, comprising 3, 1, 2, 1 and 4 genes, respectively. Analysis of gene structure demonstrated that these 11 HvPLATZ genes typically possessed two to four exons. Most HvPLATZ genes were found to possess at least one ABRE cis-element in their promoter regions, and a few of them also contained LTR, CAT-box, MRE, and DRE cis-elements. Then, we conducted an exploration of the expression patterns of HvPLATZs, which displayed notable differences across various tissues and in response to abiotic stresses. Functional analysis of HvPLATZ6 and HvPLATZ8 in yeast cells showed that they may be involved in drought tolerance. Additionally, we constructed a regulatory network including miRNA-targeted gene predictions and identified two miRNAs targeting two HvPLATZs, such as hvu-miR5053 and hvu-miR6184 targeting HvPLATZ2, hvu-miR6184 targeting HvPLATZ10. In summary, these findings provide valuable insights for future functional verification of HvPLATZs and contribute to a deeper understanding of the role of HvPLATZs in response to stress conditions in barley.
Little information is available on how rhizosphere bacteria affect abscisic acid (ABA) levels in plants and whether these bacterial effects are associated with improved plant water status. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that the stimulation of plant growth may be associated with the ability of ABA to increase the hydraulic conductivity of roots through the up-regulation of aquaporin. To do this, we studied the effect of bacteria capable of producing ABA on a barley mutant deficient in this hormone. Measurements of hydraulic conductivity of the ABA-deficient barley mutant Az34 showed that its tissues exhibited a reduced ability to conduct water, which correlated with lower ABA content in plants. The inoculation of
Barley reproductive fitness and efficient heat stress adaptation requires the activity of TFIIS, the elongation cofactor of RNAPII. Regulation of transcriptional machinery and its adaptive role under different stress conditions are studied extensively in the dicot model plant Arabidopsis, but our knowledge on monocot species remains elusive. TFIIS is an RNA polymerase II-associated transcription elongation cofactor. Previously, it was shown that TFIIS ensures efficient transcription elongation that is necessary for heat stress survival in A. thaliana. However, the function of TFIIS has not been analysed in monocots. In the present work, we have generated and studied independent tfIIs-crispr-mutant barley lines. We show that TFIIS is needed for reproductive development and heat stress survival in barley. The molecular basis of HS-sensitivity of tfIIs mutants is the retarded expression of heat stress protein transcripts, which leads to late accumulation of HSP chaperones, enhanced proteotoxicity and ultimately to lethality. We also show that TFIIS is transcriptionally regulated in response to heat, supporting a conserved adaptive function of these control elements for plant thermal adaptation. In sum, our results are a step forward for the better understanding of transcriptional machinery regulation in monocot crops.
The projected increase in drought severity and duration worldwide poses a significant threat to crop growth and sustainable food production. Xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolases (XTHs) family is essential in cell wall modification through the construction and restructuring of xyloglucan cross-links, but their role in drought tolerance and stomatal regulation is still illusive. We cloned and functionally characterized HvXTH1 using genetic, physiological, biochemical, transcriptomic and metabolomic approaches in barley. Evolutionary bioinformatics showed that orthologues of XTH1 was originated from Streptophyte algae (e.g. some species in the Zygnematales) the closest clade to land plants based on OneKP database. HvXTH1 is highly expressed in leaves and HvXTH1 is localized to the plasma membrane. Under drought conditions, silencing HvXTH1 in drought-tolerant Tibetan wild barley XZ5 induced a significant reduction in water loss rate and increase in biomass, however overexpressing HvXTH1 exhibited drought sensitivity with significantly less drought-responsive stomata, lower lignin content and a thicker cell wall. Transcriptome profile of the wild type Golden Promise and HvXTH1-OX demonstrated that drought-induced differentially expressed genes in leaves are related to cell wall biosynthesis, abscisic acid and stomatal signaling, and stress response. Furthermore, overexpressing HvXTH1 suppressed both genes and metabolites in the phenylpropanoid pathway for lignin biosynthesis, leading to drought sensitivity of HvXTH1-OX. We provide new insight by deciphering the function of a novel protein HvXTH1 for drought tolerance in cell wall modification, stomatal regulation, and phenylpropanoid pathway for lignin biosynthesis in barley. The function of HvXTH1 in drought response will be beneficial to develop crop varieties adapted to drought.
Heavy metal contamination in soil is a global concern due to its harmful effect to all living organisms. Phytoremediation is an emerging cost- effective technology, which utilizes different types of hyperaccumulator plants for the removal of heavy metal pollutants. Crop plants have been suggested as a good candidate for recultivation of agricultural soil in phytoremediation process, however the molecular mechanisms responsible for the crop tolerance to heavy metals is still unknown. Metal-tolerance proteins (MTPs) are divalent cation transporters that play critical roles in metal tolerance and ion homeostasis in plants. The current study identified 12 HvMTPs in the barley (Hordeum vulgare, Hv) genome; the majority of MTPs were hydrophobic proteins found in the vacuolar membrane. Gene expression profiling suggests that HvMTPs play an active role in maintaining barley nutrient homeostasis throughout its life cycle. The expression of barley HvMTP genes in the presence of heavy metals revealed that these MTPs were induced by at least one metal ion, implying their involvement in metal tolerance. Zanieczyszczenie gleby metalami ciężkimi stanowi globalny problem zagrażający organizmom żywym. Jedną ze strategii rekultywacji gleby jest fitoremediacja polegająca na wykorzystywaniu roślinnych hiperakumulatorów wykazujących zdolność pobierania z gleby i akumulowania w tkankach znacznych ilości metali ciężkich. Wśród kandydatów do powszechnego wykorzystywania w fitoremediacji gleb wymienia się zboża, nadal jednak brakuje pełnego zrozumienia mechanizmów molekularnych leżących u podstaw tolerancji tych roślin na wysokie stężenia metali ciężkich. Białka tolerancji na metale, MTP (ang. metal tolerance proteins), są obecnymi w błonach komórek roślinnych transporterami kationów dwuwartościowych, kluczowymi dla utrzymania homeostazy i tolerancji roślin na metale ciężkie. Analizy zsekwencjonowanego genomu jęczmienia pozwoliły na pierwszą dotąd identyfikację 12 genów HvMTP o zróżnicowanej strukturze, które kodują białka różniące się między sobą masą cząsteczkową, obecnością konserwowanych domen oraz prawdopodobną lokalizacją wewnątrzkomórkową. Indukcja ekspresji genów HvMTP w odpowiedzi na stres metali ciężkich oraz inne stresy abiotyczne sugeruje istotną rolę tych genów w odpowiedzi roślin jęczmienia na niekorzystne warunki środowiska.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is the fourth most produced cereal crop in the world, but its productivity on acid soil has been restricted due to its high sensitivity to aluminum (Al) toxicity. The major gene controlling Al tolerance in barley is HvAACT1 (Al-activated citrate transporter 1), which is involved in citrate secretion from the roots for Al detoxification. Here we bred a malting barley cultivar with enhanced acid soil tolerance by introgression of a 1-kb transposon regulating the expression of HvAACT1 into an elite malting cultivar through multiple backcrossing and marker-assisted selection. The line selected showed increased expression of HvAACT1, enhanced citrate secretion from the roots and decreased Al binding to the roots. This line produced more than two to three times the grain yield compared with the original cultivar when grown on acidic soil, providing a potentially sustainable and economic way to boost productivity of malting barley cultivars in areas with acidic soil.
Plant AT-rich sequence and zinc-binding proteins (PLATZs) are a novel category of plant-specific transcription factors involved in growth, development, and abiotic stress responses. However, the
Drought is an important abiotic factor constricting crop production globally. Although the roles of JAZ proteins in regulating jasmonic acid signalling and plant responses to environmental stress are well documented, their specific functions and underlying mechanisms remain little known. In this study, JAZ proteins in barley were thoroughly analyzed, revealing a total of 11 members classified into three phylogenetic subgroups. HvJAZ2, based on its distinct expression patterns, is considered a key candidate gene for regulating drought tolerance in barley. Using the HvJAZ2 knockout mutants, we revealed that the gene negatively regulates drought tolerance by inhibiting barley root growth. Notably, the jaz2 mutants upregulated the expression of root development genes, including SHR1, PLT1, PLT2 and PLT6. plt2 and plt1/plt2 mutants exhibited suppressed root development and reduced drought tolerance. Analysis of interactions between HvJAZ2 and other proteins showed that HvJAZ2 does not directly interact with HvPLT1/2/6, but interacts with some other proteins. BIFC and LCA assays further confirmed the nuclear interaction between HvJAZ2 and HvMYC2. Y1H and Dual-Luciferase experiments demonstrated that HvMYC2 can bind to and activate the HvPLT2 promoter. In summary, HvJAZ2 negatively regulates root development and drought tolerance in barley by suppressing HvPLT2 expression through interacting with HvMYC2.
The ability of laser scanning confocal microscopy to generate high-contrast 2D and 3D images has become essential in studying plant-fungal interactions. Techniques such as visualization of native fluorescence, fluorescent protein tagging of microbes, green fluorescent protein (GFP)/red fluorescent protein (RFP)-fusion proteins, and fluorescent labeling of plant and fungal proteins have been widely used to aid in these investigations. Use of fluorescent proteins has several pitfalls, including variability of expression in planta and the requirement of gene transformation. Here, we used the unlabeled pathogens
The correlation between heading date and flowering time significantly regulates grain filling and seed formation in barley and other crops, ultimately determining crop productivity. In this study, the transcriptome, hormone content detection, and metabolome analysis were performed systematically to analyze the regulatory mechanism of heading time in highland barley under different light conditions. The heading date of D18 (winter highland barley variety, Dongqing18) was later than that of K13 (vernal highland barley variety) under normal growth conditions or long-day (LD) treatment, while this situation will reverse with short-day (SD) treatment. The circadian rhythm plant, plant hormone signaling transduction, starch and sucrose metabolism, and photosynthesis-related pathways are significantly enriched in barley under SD and LD to influence heading time. In the plant circadian rhythm pathway, the key genes GI (Gigantea), PRR (Pesudoresponseregulator), FKF1 (Flavin-binding kelch pepeat F-Box 1), and FT (Flowering locus T) are identified as highly expressed in D18SD3 and K13SD2, while they are significantly down-regulated in K13SD3. These genes play an important role in regulating the heading date of D18 earlier than that of K13 under SD conditions. In photosynthesis-related pathways, a-b binding protein and RBS were highly expressed in K13LD3, while NADP-dependent malic enzyme, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, fructose-bisphosphate aldolase, and triosephosphate isomerase were significantly expressed in D18SD3. In the starch and sucrose metabolism pathway, 41 DEGs (differentially expressed genes) and related metabolites were identified as highly expressed and accumulated in D18SD3. The DEGs SAUR (Small auxin-up RNA), ARF (Auxin response factor), TIR1 (Transport inhibitor response 1), EIN3 (Ethylene-insensitive 3), ERS1 (Ethylene receptor gene), and JAZ1 (Jasmonate ZIM-domain) in the plant hormone pathway were significantly up-regulated in D18SD3. Compared with D18LD3, the content of N6-isopentenyladenine, indole-3-carboxylic acid, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid, trans-zeatin, indole-3-carboxaldehyde, 1-O-indol-3-ylacetylglucose, and salicylic acid in D18SD3 also increased. The expression levels of vernalization genes (HvVRN1, HvVRN2, and HvVRN3), photoperiod genes (PPD), and PPDK (Pyruvate phosphate dikinase) that affect photosynthetic efficiency in barley are also analyzed, which play important regulatory roles in barley heading date. The WGCNA analysis of the metabolome data and circadian regulatory genes identified the key metabolites and candidate genes to regulate the heading time of barley in response to the photoperiod. These studies will provide a reference for the regulation mechanism of flowering and the heading date of highland barley.
Nanotechnology is grabbing great attention all over the world because of its stimulating use in numerous fields, and the nanosilica (nSi) and carbon nanoparticles (CNPs) application has been examined in various studies. Conversely, the nSi and CNPs combinatorial use is a new method and researched in limited literature. For this purpose, a pot experiment was conducted to examine various growth and biochemical parameters in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) under the toxic concentration of nickel (Ni) i.e., 200 mg kg
In vitro plant embryogenesis and microcallus formation are systems which are required for plant regeneration, a process during which cell reprogramming and proliferation are critical. These systems offer many advantages in breeding programmes, such as doubled-haploid production, clonal propagation of selected genotypes, and recovery of successfully gene-edited or transformed plants. However, the low proportion of reprogrammed cells in many plant species makes these processes highly inefficient. Here we report a new strategy to improve in vitro plant cell reprogramming using small molecule inhibitors of mammalian leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), which are used in pharmaceutical applications for cell reprogramming, but never used in plants before. LRRK2 inhibitors increased in vitro embryo production in three different systems and species, microspore embryogenesis of oilseed rape and barley, and somatic embryogenesis in cork oak. These inhibitors also promoted plant cell reprogramming and proliferation in Arabidopsis protoplast cultures. The benzothiazole derivative JZ1.24, a representative compound of the tested molecules, modified the expression of the brassinosteroid (BR)-related genes BIN2, CPD, and BAS1, correlating with an activation of BR signaling. Additionally, the LRRK2 inhibitor JZ1.24 induced the expression of the embryogenesis marker gene SERK1-like. The results suggest that the use of small molecules from the pharmaceutical field could be extended to promote in vitro reprogramming of plant cells towards embryogenesis or microcallus formation in a wider range of plant species and in vitro systems. This technological innovation would help to develop new strategies to improve the efficiency of in vitro plant regeneration, a major bottleneck in plant breeding.
Cadmium (Cd) is a toxic heavy metal that poses risks to crop production and food safety worldwide. This study evaluated whether manganese (Mn) addition could mitigate Cd toxicity and reduce Cd accumulation in barley seedlings. Hydroponically grown seedlings of Cd-tolerant (WSBZ) and Cd-sensitive (Dong17) barley cultivars were treated with 0.1 μM and 1 μM Cd as well as 0.2 mM Mn alone and in a combination with 0.1 or 1.0 μM Cd for 21 days. Cd exposure caused the dramatic alteration of growth and physiological parameters by disrupting chloroplast, and increased Cd accumulation in both genotypes. However, Mn addition markedly alleviated the negative impacts of all examined parameters caused by Cd stress. Cd addition enhanced expression of anti-oxidative enzyme related genes, including HvSOD, HvCAT, HvAPX, HvPOD in the two barley genotypes exposed to Cd stress. The expression analysis showed nearly all HvNRAMPs genes are dramatically up regulated by both Mn and Cd, with WSBZ having higher expression than Dong 17. Notably, HvNRAMP1 showed the highest expression due to Mn addition, highlighting its crucial role in Mn uptake and transportation in barley. Moreover, Cd stress and Mn addition increased and suppressed the expression of HvYSL5, HvHMA2 and HvHMA3, respectively. Conversely, the expression of HvYSL2, HvIRT1 and HvMTP8 was upregulated by both Mn and Cd treatments, with a further increase observed in the combined Cd and Mn treatments. It may be concluded that sufficient Mn supply is quite important for reducing Cd uptake and accumulation in plants.
Aluminum toxicity is a major abiotic stress on acidic soils, leading to restricted root growth and reduced plant yield. Long non-coding RNAs are crucial signaling molecules regulating the expression of downstream genes, particularly under abiotic stress conditions. However, the extent to which lncRNAs participate in the response to aluminum (Al) stress in barley remains largely unknown. Here, we conducted RNA sequencing of root samples under aluminum stress and compared the lncRNA transcriptomes of two Tibetan wild barley genotypes, XZ16 (Al-tolerant) and XZ61 (Al-sensitive), as well as the aluminum-tolerant cultivar Dayton. In total, 268 lncRNAs were identified as aluminum-responsive genes on the basis of their differential expression profiles under aluminum treatment. Through target gene prediction analysis, we identified 938 candidate lncRNA-messenger RNA (mRNA) pairs that function in a cis-acting manner. Subsequently, enrichment analysis showed that the genes targeted by aluminum-responsive lncRNAs were involved in diterpenoid biosynthesis, peroxisome function, and starch/sucrose metabolism. Further analysis of genotype differences in the transcriptome led to the identification of 15 aluminum-responsive lncRNAs specifically altered by aluminum stress in XZ16. The RNA sequencing data were further validated by RT-qPCR. The functional roles of lncRNA-mRNA interactions demonstrated that these lncRNAs are involved in the signal transduction of secondary messengers, and a disease resistance protein, such as RPP13-like protein 4, is probably involved in aluminum tolerance in XZ16. The current findings significantly contribute to our understanding of the regulatory roles of lncRNAs in aluminum tolerance and extend our knowledge of their importance in plant responses to aluminum stress.
The endogenous stress metabolite β-aminobutyric acid (BABA) primes plants for enhanced resistance against abiotic and biotic stress by activating a complex phytohormone signaling network that includes abscisic acid (ABA), jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA), and ethylene (ET). In this study, through stringent filtering, we identify 14 master regulatory transcription factors (TFs) from the DOF, AHL, and ERF families that potentially regulate the biosynthesis and signaling of these phytohormones. Transcriptional analysis of BABA-treated
Developmental leaf senescence (DLS) is an irreversible process followed by cell death. Dark-induced leaf senescence (DILS) is a reversible process that allows adaptations to changing environmental conditions. As a result of exposure to adverse environmental changes, plants have developed mechanisms that enable them to survive. One of these is the redirection of metabolism into the senescence pathway. The plant seeks to optimise resource allocation. Our research aims to demonstrate how epigenetic machinery regulates leaf senescence, including its irreversibility. In silico analyses allowed the complex identification and characterisation of 117 genes involved in epigenetic processes in barley. These genes include those responsible for DNA methylation, post-translational histone modifications, and ATP-dependent chromatin remodelling complexes. We then performed RNAseq analysis after DILS and DLS to evaluate their expression in senescence-dependent leaf metabolism. Principal component analysis revealed that evaluated gene expression in developmental senescence was similar to controls, while induced senescence displayed a distinct profile. Western blot experiments revealed that senescence engages senescence-specific histone modification. During DILS and DLS, the methylation of histone proteins H3K4me3 and H3K9me2 increased. H3K9ac acetylation levels significantly decreased during DILS and remained unchanged during DLS. The study identified different epigenetic regulations of senescence types in barley leaves. These findings are valuable for exploring epigenetic regulation of senescence-related molecular mechanisms, particularly in response to premature, induced leaf senescence. Based on the results, we suggest the presence of an epigenetically regulated molecular switch between cell survival and cell death in DILS, highlighting an epigenetically driven cell survival metabolic response.
Squamosa promoter-binding protein-like (SPL) is a plant-specific transcription factor that is widely involved in the regulation of plant growth and development, including flower and grain development, stress responses, and secondary metabolite synthesis. However, this gene family has not been comprehensively evaluated in barley, the most adaptable cereal crop with a high nutritional value. In this study, a total of 15 HvSPL genes were identified based on the Hordeum vulgare genome. These genes were named HvSPL1 to HvSPL15 based on the chromosomal distribution of the HvSPL genes and were divided into seven groups (I, II, III, V, VI, VII, and VIII) based on the phylogenetic tree analysis. Chromosomal localization revealed one pair of tandem duplicated genes and one pair of segmental duplicated genes. The HvSPL genes exhibited the highest collinearity with the monocotyledonous plant, Zea mays (27 pairs), followed by Oryza sativa (18 pairs), Sorghum bicolor (16 pairs), and Arabidopsis thaliana (3 pairs), and the fewest homologous genes with Solanum lycopersicum (1 pair). The distribution of the HvSPL genes in the evolutionary tree was relatively scattered, and HvSPL proteins tended to cluster with SPL proteins from Z. mays and O. sativa, indicating a close relationship between HvSPL and SPL proteins from monocotyledonous plants. Finally, the spatial and temporal expression patterns of the 14 HvSPL genes from different subfamilies were determined using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Based on the results, the HvSPL gene family exhibited tissue-specific expression and played a regulatory role in grain development and abiotic stress. HvSPL genes are highly expressed in various tissues during seed development. The expression levels of HvSPL genes under the six abiotic stress conditions indicated that many genes responded to stress, especially HvSPL8, which exhibited high expression under multiple stress conditions, thereby warranting further attention. In this study, 15 SPL gene family members were identified in the genome of Hordeum vulgare, and the phylogenetic relationships, gene structure, replication events, gene expression, and potential roles of these genes in millet development were studied. Our findings lay the foundation for exploring the HvSPL genes and performing molecular breeding of barley.
Sulphotransferase (SOT) enzyme (encoded by a conserved family of SOT genes) is involved in sulphonation of a variety of compounds, through transfer of a sulphuryl moiety from 3'phosphoadenosine- 5'phosphosulphate (PAPS) to a variety of secondary metabolites. The PAPS itself is derived from 3'adenosine-5'phosphosulphate (APS) that is formed after uptake of sulphate ions from the soil. The process provides tolerance against abiotic stresses like drought and heat in plants. Therefore, a knowledge of SOT genes in any crop may help in designing molecular breeding methods for improvement of tolerance for drought and heat. Sequences of rice SOT genes and SOT domain (PF00685) of corresponding proteins were both used for identification of SOT genes in wheat and six related species (T. urartu, Ae. tauschii, T. turgidum, Z. mays, B. distachyon and Hordeum vulgare), although detailed analysis was conducted only in wheat. The wheat genes were mapped on individual chromosomes and also subjected to synteny and collinearity analysis. The proteins encoded by these genes were examined for the presence of a complete SOT domain using 'Conserved Domain Database' (CDD) search tool at NCBI. In wheat, 107 TaSOT genes, ranging in length from 969 bp to 7636 bp, were identified and mapped onto individual chromosomes. SSRs (simple sequence repeats), microRNAs, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and their target sites were also identified in wheat SOT genes. SOT proteins were also studied in detail. An expression assay of TaSOT genes via wheat RNA-seq data suggested engagement of these genes in growth, development and responses to various hormones and biotic/abiotic stresses. The results of the present study should help in further functional characterization of SOT genes in wheat and other related crops.
This study investigated the transcriptomic mechanisms underlying melatonin accumulation and the enhancement of salt tolerance in hull-less barley seeds subjected to zinc sulphate stress. Following zinc sulphate treatment, hull-less barley seeds demonstrated increased melatonin accumulation and improved salt tolerance. Through transcriptome analysis, the study compared gene expression alterations in seeds (using the first letter of seed, this group is marked as 'S'), seeds treated with pure water (as the control group, is marked as 'C'), and germinated seeds exposed to varying concentrations of zinc sulphate (0.2 mM and 0.8 mM, the first letter of zinc sulphate, 'Z', is used to mark groups 'Z1' and 'Z2'). The analysis revealed that 8176, 759, and 622 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the three comparison groups S.vs.C, C.vs.Z1, and C.vs.Z2, respectively. Most of the DEGs were closely associated with biological processes, including oxidative-stress response, secondary metabolite biosynthesis, and plant hormone signaling. Notably, zinc sulphate stress influenced the expression levels of Tryptophan decarboxylase 1 (
The pollen wall protects pollen during dispersal and is critical for pollination recognition. In the Poaceae family, the pollen exine stereostructure exhibits a high degree of conservation with similar patterns across species. However, there remains controversy regarding the conservation of key factors involved in its formation among various Poaceae species.
Drought stress poses a significant threat to global agriculture, highlighting the urgent need to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying plant drought tolerance. The UDP-glycosyltransferase (UGT) gene family plays crucial roles in diverse biological processes in plants. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of the UGT gene family in wild barley EC_S1, focusing on gene characteristics, subcellular localization, phylogenetic relationships, and protein structure. A total of 175 UGT gene family members were identified, exhibiting diverse patterns in protein length, molecular weight, isoelectric point, hydrophilicity, and subcellular localization. Most genes are located at chromosome ends. Phylogenetic analysis grouped the UGT genes into seven clusters, with barley-specific group E. Expression analysis across barley tissues showed upregulation in roots and senescent leaves, implying diverse roles. Under drought stress, expression patterns varied, with drought-tolerant varieties showing fewer changes than sensitive ones. Clustering analysis revealed distinct expression patterns, suggesting regulatory functions in barley's drought response. As a case, the The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-024-01487-w.
High-affinity potassium transporters (HKTs) are well known proteins that govern the partitioning of Na
Enhancers are DNA sequences that can strengthen transcription initiation. However, the global identification of plant enhancers is complicated due to uncertainty in the distance and orientation of enhancers, especially in species with large genomes. In this study, we performed self-transcribing active regulatory region sequencing (STARR-seq) for the first time to identify enhancers across the barley genome. A total of 7323 enhancers were successfully identified, and among 45 randomly selected enhancers, over 75% were effective as validated by a dual-luciferase reporter assay system in the lower epidermis of tobacco leaves. Interestingly, up to 53.5% of the barley enhancers were repetitive sequences, especially transposable elements (TEs), thus reinforcing the vital role of repetitive enhancers in gene expression. Both the common active mark H3K4me3 and repressive mark H3K27me3 were abundant among the barley STARR-seq enhancers. In addition, the functional range of barley STARR-seq enhancers seemed much broader than that of rice or maize and extended to ±100 kb of the gene body, and this finding was consistent with the high expression levels of genes in the genome. This study specifically depicts the unique features of barley enhancers and provides available barley enhancers for further utilization.
The diverse class of plant diterpenoid metabolites serves important functions in mediating growth, chemical defence, and ecological adaptation. In major monocot crops, such as maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa), and barley (Hordeum vulgare), diterpenoids function as core components of biotic and abiotic stress resilience. Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) is a perennial grass valued as a stress-resilient biofuel model crop. Previously we identified an unusually large diterpene synthase family that produces both common and species-specific diterpenoids, several of which accumulate in response to abiotic stress. Here, we report discovery and functional characterization of a previously unrecognized monofunctional class I diterpene synthase (PvKSL1) via in vivo co-expression assays with different copalyl pyrophosphate (CPP) isomers, structural and mutagenesis studies, as well as genomic and transcriptomic analyses. In particular, PvKSL1 converts ent-CPP into ent-abietadiene, ent-palustradiene, ent-levopimaradiene, and ent-neoabietadiene via a 13-hydroxy-8(14)-ent-abietene intermediate. Notably, although featuring a distinct ent-stereochemistry, this product profile is near-identical to bifunctional (+)-levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthases occurring in conifer trees. PvKSL1 has three of four active site residues previously shown to control (+)-levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase catalytic specificity. However, mutagenesis studies suggest a distinct catalytic mechanism in PvKSL1. Genome localization of PvKSL1 distant from other diterpene synthases, and its phylogenetic distinctiveness from known abietane-forming diterpene synthases, support an independent evolution of PvKSL1 activity. Albeit at low levels, PvKSL1 gene expression predominantly in roots suggests a role of diterpenoid formation in belowground tissue. Together, these findings expand the known chemical and functional space of diterpenoid metabolism in monocot crops.
Drought, which adversely affects plant growth and continuity of life and reduces product yield and quality, is one of the most common abiotic stresses at the globally. One of the polyamines that regulates plant development and reacts to abiotic stressors, including drought stress, is Putrescine (Put). This study compared the physiological and molecular effects of applying exogenous Put (10 µM) to barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Burakbey) under drought stress (- 6.30 mPa PEG 6000). The 21-day drought stress imposed on the barley plant had a strong negative effect on plant metabolism in all experimental groups. Exogenous Put treatment under drought stress had a reformative effect on the cell cycle (transitions from G0-G1 to S and from S to G2-M), total protein content (almost 100%), endogenous polyamine content, malondialdehyde (MDA) (70%), and ascorbate peroxidase (APX) (62%) levels compared to the drought stress plants. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) (12%) and catalase (CAT) (32%) enzyme levels in the same group increased further after exogenous Put application, forming a response to drought stress. Consequently, it was discovered that the administration of exogenous Put in barley raises endogenous polyamine levels and then improves drought tolerance due to increased antioxidant capability, cell division stimulation, and total protein content.
In root research, hydroponic plant cultivation is commonly used and soil experiments are rare. We investigated the response of 12-day-old barley roots, cultivated in soil-filled rhizotrons, to different soil water potentials (SWP) comparing a modern cultivar (cv. Scarlett) with a wild accession ICB181243 from Pakistan. Water potentials were quantified in soils with different relative water contents. Root anatomy was studied using histochemistry and microscopy. Suberin and lignin amounts were quantified by analytical chemistry. Transcriptomic changes were observed by RNA-sequencing. Compared with control with decreasing SWP, total root length decreased, the onset of endodermal suberization occurred much closer towards the root tips, amounts of suberin and lignin increased, and corresponding biosynthesis genes were upregulated in response to decreasing SWP. We conclude that decreasing water potentials enhanced root suberization and lignification, like osmotic stress experiments in hydroponic cultivation. However, in soil endodermal cell suberization was initiated very close towards the root tip, and root length as well as suberin amounts were about twofold higher compared with hydroponic cultivation.
To decipher the molecular bases governing seed germination, this study presents the pivotal role of the cap-binding complex (CBC), comprising CBP20 and CBP80, in modulating the inhibitory effects of abscisic acid (ABA) in barley. Using both single and double barley mutants in genes encoding the CBC, we revealed that the double mutant hvcbp20.ab/hvcbp80.b displays ABA insensitivity, in stark contrast to the hypersensitivity observed in single mutants during germination. Our comprehensive transcriptome and metabolome analysis not only identified significant alterations in gene expression and splicing patterns but also underscored the regulatory nexus among CBC, ABA, and brassinosteroid (BR) signaling pathways.
GSHO 2096 is a near isogenic barley line with extremely high grain β-amylase activity, a desirable trait in the malting and brewing industry. High levels of grain β-amylase activity are caused by a surge in endosperm-specific β-amylase (Bmy1) gene expression during the early stages of grain development with high expression levels persisting throughout development. Origins of the high β-amylase activity trait are perplexing considering GSHO 2096 is not supposed to have grain β-amylase activity. GSHO 2096 is reported to be derived from a Bowman x Risø 1508 cross followed by recurrent backcrossing to Bowman (BC5). Risø 1508 carries a mutated form of the barley prolamin binding factor, which is responsible for Bmy1 expression during grain development. Thus, the pedigree of GSHO 2096 was explored to determine the potential origins of the high grain β-amylase trait. Genotyping using the barley 50k iSelect SNP array revealed Bowman and GSHO 2096 were very similar (95.4 %) and provided evidence that both Risø 56 and 1508 are in the pedigree. Risø mutants 56 and 1508 both have perturbed hordein gene expression leading to a discernable pattern using SDS-PAGE. GSHO 2096 and Risø 56 have the same hordein pattern whereas Bowman and Risø 1508 have unique patterns. RNAseq revealed that Hor2 (B-hordein) gene expression was completely downregulated making it unique as the only known line with Bmy1 expression without Hor2 co-expression. Regardless of pedigree, GSHO 2096 remains an extremely valuable high β-amylase activity line with potential utilization in breeding for malt quality.
In the face of escalating environmental challenges, understanding crop responses to abiotic stress is pivotal for sustainable agriculture. The present study meticulously investigates the intricate interplay between drought and salinity stress in barley (
The advanced model of floral morphogenesis is based largely on data from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa), but this process is less well understood in the Triticeae. Here, we investigated a sterile barley (Hordeum vulgare) mutant with malformed floral organs (designated mfo1), of which the paleae, lodicules, and stamens in each floret were all converted into lemma-like organs, and the ovary was abnormally shaped. Combining bulked-segregant analysis, whole-genome resequencing, and TILLING approaches, the mfo1 mutant was attributed to loss-of-function mutations in the MADS-box transcription factor gene HvAGL6, a key regulator in the ABCDE floral morphogenesis model. Through transcriptomic analysis between young inflorescences of wild-type and mfo1 plants, 380 genes were identified as differentially expressed, most of which function in DNA binding, protein dimerization, cell differentiation, or meristem determinacy. Regulatory pathway enrichment showed HvAGL6 associates with transcriptional abundance of many MADS-box genes, including the B-class gene HvMADS4. Mutants with deficiency in HvMADS4 exhibited the conversion of stamens into supernumerary pistils, producing multiple ovaries resembling the completely sterile multiple ovaries 3.h (mov3.h) mutant. These findings demonstrate that the regulatory model of floral morphogenesis is conserved across plant species and provides insights into the interactions between HvAGL6 and other MADS-box regulators.
Currently, there are no reports on the HvbHLH gene family in the recent barley genome (Morex_V3). Furthermore, the structural genes related to anthocyanin synthesis that interact with HvANT2 have yet to be fully identified. In this study, a bioinformatics approach was used to systematically analyze the HvbHLH gene family. The expression of this gene family was analyzed through RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and the gene with the most significant expression level, The study identified 161 bHLH genes, designated as
Hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum Hook. f.) is a significant cereal crop and a substantial source of forage for livestock. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and metabolites play crucial roles in the nutrient accumulation and regeneration of hulless barley plants following mowing. The study aimed to identify differentially expressed lncRNAs and metabolites in hulless barley plants by analyzing transcriptomic and metabolomic datasets at 2 h, 24 h, and 72 h following mowing. The study revealed that 190, 90, and 438 lncRNA genes were differentially expressed at the 2 h, 24 h, and 72 h time points compared to the non-mowing control. We identified 14 lncRNA genes-11 downregulated and 3 upregulated-showing consistently significant differential expression across all time points after mowing. These differentially expressed lncRNAs target genes involved in critical processes such as cytokinin signaling, cell wall degradation, storage protein accumulation, and biomass increase. In addition, we identified ten differentially expressed metabolites targeting diverse metabolic pathways, including plant hormones, alkaloids, and flavonoids, before and after mowing at various time points. Endogenous hormone analysis revealed that cytokinin most likely played a crucial role in the regeneration of hulless barley after mowing. This study created a comprehensive dataset of lncRNAs, metabolites, and hormones in hulless barley after mowing, revealing valuable insights into the functional characteristics of lncRNAs, metabolites, and hormones in regulating plant regeneration. The results indicated that cytokinin plays a significant role in facilitating the regeneration process of hulless barley after mowing. This comprehensive dataset is an invaluable resource for better understanding the complex mechanisms that underlie plant regeneration, with significant implications for crop improvement.
The increasing use of nanoparticles is driving the growth of research on their effects on living organisms. However, studies on the effects of nanoparticles on cellular respiration are still limited. The remodeling of cellular-respiration-related indices in plants induced by zinc oxide nanoparticles (nnZnO) and its bulk form (blZnO) was investigated for the first time. For this purpose, barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seedlings were grown hydroponically for one week with the addition of test compounds at concentrations of 0, 0.3, 2, and 10 mg mL
The aim of current study was to identify closely linked QTLs and candidate genes related to germination indices under control, salinity and drought conditions in barley. A total of nine (a major), 28 (eight major) and 34 (five major) closely linked QTLs were mapped on the seven chromosomes in response to control, drought and salinity conditions using genome-wide composite interval mapping, respectively. The major QTLs can be used in marker-assisted selection (MAS) projects to increase tolerance to drought and salinity stresses during the germination. Overall, 422 unique candidate genes were associated with most major QTLs. Moreover, gene ontology analysis showed that candidate genes mostly involved in biological process related to signal transduction and response to stimulus in the pathway of resistance to drought and salinity stresses. Also, the protein-protein interaction network was identified 10 genes. Furthermore, 10 genes were associated with receptor-like kinase family. In addition, 16 transcription factors were detected. Three transcription factors including B3, bHLH, and FAR1 had the most encoding genes. Totally, 60 microRNAs were traced to regulate the target genes. Finally, the key genes are a suitable and reliable source for future studies to improve resistance to abiotic stress during the germination of barley.
Drought is one of the most common abiotic stresses that affect barley productivity. Long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) has been reported to be widely involved in abiotic stress, however, its function in the drought stress response in wild barley remains unclear. In this study, RNA sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed lncRNAs (DElncRNA) among two wild barley and two cultivated barley genotypes. Then, the cis-regulatory networks were according to the chromosome position and the expression level correction. The GO annotation indicates that these cis-target genes are mainly involved in "ion transport transporter activity" and "metal ion transport transporter activity". Through weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), 10 drought-related modules were identified to contract trans-regulatory networks. The KEGG annotation demonstrated that these trans-target genes were enriched for photosynthetic physiology, brassinosteroid biosynthesis, and flavonoid metabolism. In addition, we constructed the lncRNA-mediated ceRNA regulatory network by predicting the microRNA response elements (MREs). Furthermore, the expressions of lncRNAs were verified by RT-qPCR. Functional verification of a candidate lncRNA, MSTRG.32128, demonstrated its positive role in drought response and root growth and development regulation. Hormone content analysis provided insights into the regulatory mechanisms of MSTRG.32128 in root development, revealing its involvement in auxin and ethylene signal transduction pathways. These findings advance our understanding of lncRNA-mediated regulatory mechanisms in barley under drought stress. Our results will provide new insights into the functions of lncRNAs in barley responding to drought stress.
Based on our previous research, a full-length cDNA sequence of HvANS gene was isolated from purple and white Qingke. The open reading frame (ORF) in the purple variety Nierumuzha was 1320 base pairs (bp), encoding 439 amino acids, while the ORF in the white variety Kunlun 10 was 1197 bp, encoding 398 amino acids. A nonsynonymous mutation was found at the position of 1195 bp (T/C) in the coding sequence (CDS) of the HvANS gene. We carried out a series of studies to further clarify the relationship between the HvANS gene and anthocyanin synthesis in Qingke. The conservative structural domain prediction results showed that the encoded protein belonged to the PLN03178 superfamily. Multiple comparisons showed that this protein had the highest homology with Hordeum vulgare, at 88.61%. The approximately 2000 bp promoter sequence of the HvANS gene was identical in both varieties. The real-time fluorescence PCR (qRT-PCR) results revealed that HvANS expression was either absent or very low in the roots, stems, leaves, and awns of Nierumuzha. In contrast, the HvANS expression was high in the seed coats and seeds of Nierumuzha. Likewise, in Kunlun 10, HvANS expression was either absent or very low, indicating a tissue-specific and variety-specific pattern for HvANS expression. The subcellular localization results indicated that HvANS was in the cell membrane. Metabolomic results indicated that the HvANS gene is closely related to the synthesis of three anthocyanin substances (Idaein chloride, Kinetin 9-riboside, and Cyanidin O-syringic acid). Yeast single hybridization experiments showed that the HvANS promoter interacted with HvANT1, which is the key anthocyanin regulatory protein. In a yeast two-hybrid experiment, we obtained two significantly different proteins (ZWY2020 and POMGNT2-like) and verified the results by qRT-PCR. These results provide a basis for further studies on the regulatory mechanism of HvANS in the synthesis of anthocyanins in Qingke purple grains.
Calcium-dependent protein kinase (CDPK) as one of calcium sensors were play important roles in stress responses. CDPK-related protein kinase (CRK) was identified as subgroup III of CDPK has been characterized in many plants, but the members and functions of CRK genes in hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) has not been clarified. Here, we identified four HvCRK genes and named HvCRK1-4 according to chromosomes localization. Moreover, the physiological function of highly induced genes of HvCRK2 and HvCRK4 were investigated in drought stress tolerance by examining their overexpression transgenic lines functions generated in Arabidopsis thaliana. Under drought stress, both overexpression HvCRK2 and HvCRK4 displayed reduced drought resistance, and accompanied by higher accumulation levels of ROS. Notably, overexpression of HvCRK2 and HvCRK4 reduced sensitivity to exogenous ABA, meanwhile the expression of ABA-responsive genes in transgenic plants were down-regulated compared to the wild type in response to drought stress. Furthermore, the physically interaction of HvCRK2 and HvCRK4 with calmodulin (CaM) and calmodulin-like (CML) proteins were determined in vivo, the further results showed that HvCML32 binds to HvCRK2/4 S_TKC structural domains and negatively regulates drought tolerance. In summary, this study identified HvCRK members and indicated that HvCRK2 and HvCRK4 genes play negative roles in drought tolerance, and provide insight into potential molecular mechanism of HvCRK2 and HvCRK4 in response to drought stress.
Abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellin (GA) are major regulators of seed dormancy, an adaptive trait closely associated with preharvest sprouting. This study examined transcriptional regulation of ABA and GA metabolism genes and modulation of ABA and GA levels in seeds of barley genotypes exhibiting a range of dormancy phenotype. We observed a very strong negative correlation between genetic variation in seed germination and embryonic ABA level (r = 0.85), which is regulated by transcriptional modulation of HvNCED1 and/or HvCYP707A genes. A strong positive correlation was evident between variation in seed germination and GA level (r = 0.64), mediated via transcriptional regulation of GA biosynthesis genes, HvGA20ox2 and/or HvGA3oxs, and GA catabolism genes, HvGA2ox3 and/or HvGA3ox6. Modulation of the ABA and GA levels in the genotypes led to the prevalence of ABA to GA level ratio that exhibited a very strong negative correlation (r = 0.84) with seed germination, highlighting the importance of a shift in ABA/GA ratio in determining genetic variation of dormancy in barley seeds. Our results overall show that transcriptional regulation of specific ABA and GA metabolism genes underlies genetic variation in ABA/GA ratio and seed dormancy, reflecting the potential use of these genes as molecular tools for enhancing preharvest sprouting resistance in barley.
One of the main signal transduction pathways that modulate plant growth and stress responses, including drought, is the action of phytohormones. Recent advances in omics approaches have facilitated the exploration of plant genomes. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the response in the crown of barley, which plays an essential role in plant performance under stress conditions and regeneration after stress treatment, remain largely unclear. The objective of the present study was the elucidation of drought-induced molecular reactions in the crowns of different barley phytohormone mutants. We verified the hypothesis that defects of gibberellins, brassinosteroids, and strigolactones action affect the transcriptomic, proteomic, and hormonal response of barley crown to the transitory drought influencing plant development under stress. Moreover, we assumed that due to the strong connection between strigolactones and branching the
Increasing the seed germination potential and seedling growth rates play a pivotal role in increasing overall crop productivity. Seed germination and early vegetative (seedling) growth are critical developmental stages in plants. High-power microwave (HPM) technology has facilitated both the emergence of novel applications and improvements to existing in agriculture. The implications of pulsed HPM on agriculture remain unexplored. In this study, we have investigated the effects of pulsed HPM exposure on barley germination and seedling growth, elucidating the plausible underlying mechanisms. Barley seeds underwent direct HPM irradiation, with 60 pulses by 2.04 mJ/pulse, across three distinct irradiation settings: dry, submerged in deionized (DI) water, and submerged in DI water one day before exposure. Seed germination significantly increased in all HPM-treated groups, where the HPM-dry group exhibited a notable increase, with a 2.48-fold rise at day 2 and a 1.9-fold increment at day 3. Similarly, all HPM-treated groups displayed significant enhancements in water uptake, and seedling growth (weight and length), as well as elevated levels of chlorophyll, carotenoids, and total soluble protein content. The obtained results indicate that when comparing three irradiation setting, HPM-dry showed the most promising effects. Condition HPM seed treatment increases the level of reactive species within the barley seedlings, thereby modulating plant biochemistry, physiology, and different cellular signaling cascades via induced enzymatic activities. Notably, the markers associated with plant growth are upregulated and growth inhibitory markers are downregulated post-HPM exposure. Under optimal HPM-dry treatment, auxin (IAA) levels increased threefold, while ABA levels decreased by up to 65 %. These molecular findings illuminate the intricate regulatory mechanisms governing phenotypic changes in barley seedlings subjected to HPM treatment. The results of this study might play a key role to understand molecular mechanisms after pulsed-HPM irradiation of seeds, contributing significantly to address the global need of sustainable crop yield.
Glycerol-3-phosphoacyltransferase (GPAT) is an important rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of triacylglycerol (TAG), which is of great significance for plant growth, development, and response to abiotic stress. Although the characteristics of GPAT have been studied in many model plants, little is known about its expression profile and function in barley, especially under abiotic stress. In this study, 22
Strigolactones (SLs) are plant hormones that play a crucial role in regulating various aspects of plant architecture, such as shoot and root branching. However, the knowledge of SL-responsive genes and transcription factors (TFs) that control the shaping of plant architecture remains elusive. Here, transcriptomic analysis was conducted using the SL-insensitive barley mutant hvd14.d (carried mutation in SL receptor DWARF14, HvD14) and its wild-type (WT) to unravel the differences in gene expression separately in root and shoot tissues. This approach enabled us to select more than six thousand SL-dependent genes that were exclusive to each studied organ or not tissue-specific. The data obtained, along with in silico analyses, found several TFs that exhibited changed expression between the analyzed genotypes and that recognized binding sites in promoters of other identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs). In total, 28 TFs that recognize motifs over-represented in DEG promoters were identified. Moreover, nearly half of the identified TFs were connected in a single network of known and predicted interactions, highlighting the complexity and multidimensionality of SL-related signalling in barley. Finally, the SL control on the expression of one of the identified TFs in HvD14- and dose-dependent manners was proved. Obtained results bring us closer to understanding the signalling pathways regulating SL-dependent plant development.
The heat stress transcription factor HSFA2e regulates both temperature and drought response via hormonal and secondary metabolism alterations. High temperature and drought are the primary yield-limiting environmental constraints for staple food crops. Heat shock transcription factors (HSF) terminally regulate the plant abiotic stress responses to maintain growth and development under extreme environmental conditions. HSF genes of subclass A2 predominantly express under heat stress (HS) and activate the transcriptional cascade of defense-related genes. In this study, a highly heat-inducible HSF, HvHSFA2e was constitutively expressed in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) to investigate its role in abiotic stress response and plant development. Transgenic barley plants displayed enhanced heat and drought tolerance in terms of increased chlorophyll content, improved membrane stability, reduced lipid peroxidation, and less accumulation of ROS in comparison to wild-type (WT) plants. Transcriptome analysis revealed that HvHSFA2e positively regulates the expression of abiotic stress-related genes encoding HSFs, HSPs, and enzymatic antioxidants, contributing to improved stress tolerance in transgenic plants. The major genes of ABA biosynthesis pathway, flavonoid, and terpene metabolism were also upregulated in transgenics. Our findings show that HvHSFA2e-mediated upregulation of heat-responsive genes, modulation in ABA and flavonoid biosynthesis pathways enhance drought and heat stress tolerance.
Chitinase (Chi) is a pathogenesis-related protein, also reported to play an important role in plant responses to abiotic stress. However, its role in response to abiotic stress in barley is still unclear. In this study, a total of 61 Chi gene family members were identified from the whole genome of wild barley EC_S1. Phylogenetic analysis suggested that these family genes were divided into five groups. Among these genes, four pairs of collinearity genes were discovered. Besides, abundant cis-regulatory elements, including drought response element and abscisic acid response element were identified in the promoter regions of HvChi gene family members. The expression profiles revealed that most HvChi family members were significantly up-regulated under drought stress, which was also validated by RT-qPCR measurements. To further explore the role of Chi under drought stress, HvChi22 was overexpressed in Arabidopsis. Compared to wild-type plants, overexpression of HvChi22 enhanced drought tolerance by increasing the activity of oxidative protective enzymes, which caused less MDA accumulation. Our study improved the understanding of the Chi gene family under drought stress in barley, and provided a theoretical basis for crop improvement strategies to address the challenges posed by changing environmental conditions.
WHIRLY1 is a chloroplast-nucleus located DNA/RNA-binding protein with functions in development and stress tolerance. By overexpression of HvWHIRLY1 in barley, one line with a 10-fold and two lines with a 50-fold accumulation of the protein were obtained. In these lines, the relative abundance of the nuclear form exceeded that of the chloroplast form. Growth of the plants was shown to be compromised in a WHIRLY1 abundance-dependent manner. Over-accumulation of WHIRLY1 in chloroplasts had neither an evident impact on nucleoid morphology nor on the composition of the photosynthetic apparatus. Nevertheless, oeW1 plants were found to be compromised in the light reactions of photosynthesis as well as in carbon fixation. The reduction in growth and photosynthesis was shown to be accompanied by a decrease in the levels of cytokinins and an increase in the level of jasmonic acid. Gene expression analyses revealed that in nonstress conditions the oeW1 plants had enhanced levels of pathogen response (PR) gene expression indicating activation of constitutive defense. During growth in continuous light of high irradiance PR gene expression increased indicating that under stress conditions oeW1 are capable to further enhance defense.
The spikelet is the unit component of the spike and the site of grain production in Triticeae crops. Two new studies revealed that plant-specific transcription factors ALOG1 and PDB1 participate in modulating spikelet number and flowering time in barley and wheat.
Establishment of final leaf size in plants relies on the precise regulation of 2 interconnected processes, cell division and cell expansion. The barley (Hordeum vulgare) protein BROAD LEAF1 (BLF1) limits cell proliferation and leaf growth in the width direction. However, how the levels of this potent repressor of leaf growth are controlled remains unclear. Here, we used a yeast 2-hybrid screen to identify the BLF1-INTERACTING RING/U-BOX 1 (BIR1) E3 ubiquitin ligase that interacts with BLF1 and confirmed the interaction of the 2 proteins in planta. Inhibiting the proteasome caused overaccumulation of a BLF1-eGFP fusion protein when co-expressed with BIR1, and an in vivo ubiquitination assay in bacteria confirmed that BIR1 can mediate ubiquitination of BLF1 protein. Consistent with regulation of endogenous BLF1 in barley by proteasomal degradation, inhibition of the proteasome in BLF1-vYFP-expressing barley plants caused an accumulation of the BLF1 protein. The BIR1 protein co-localized with BLF1 in nuclei and appeared to reduce BLF1 protein levels. Analysis of bir1-1 knockout mutants suggested the involvement of BIR1 in leaf growth control, although mainly on leaf length. Together, our results suggest that proteasomal degradation, in part mediated by BIR1, helps fine-tune BLF1 protein levels in barley.
Fusarium crown rot (FCR) caused by Fusarium pseudograminearum poses a significant threat to wheat production in the Huang-Huai-Hai region of China. However, the pathogenic mechanism of F. pseudograminearum is still poorly understood. Zn
The aim of this work was to study the ability of 28-homobrassinolide (HBL) and 28-homocastasterone (HCS) to increase the resistance of barley (
Zinc finger-homeodomain transcription factors (ZF-HDs) are pivotal in regulating plant growth, development, and diverse stress responses. In this study, we found 8
Inflorescence architecture and crop productivity are often tightly coupled in our major cereal crops. However, the underlying genetic mechanisms controlling cereal inflorescence development remain poorly understood. Here, we identified recessive alleles of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) HvALOG1 (Arabidopsis thaliana LSH1 and Oryza G1) that produce non-canonical extra spikelets and fused glumes abaxially to the central spikelet from the upper-mid portion until the tip of the inflorescence. Notably, we found that HvALOG1 exhibits a boundary-specific expression pattern that specifically excludes reproductive meristems, implying the involvement of previously proposed localized signaling centers for branch regulation. Importantly, during early spikelet formation, non-cell-autonomous signals associated with HvALOG1 expression may specify spikelet meristem determinacy, while boundary formation of floret organs appears to be coordinated in a cell-autonomous manner. Moreover, barley ALOG family members synergistically modulate inflorescence morphology, with HvALOG1 predominantly governing meristem maintenance and floral organ development. We further propose that spatiotemporal redundancies of expressed HvALOG members specifically in the basal inflorescence may be accountable for proper patterning of spikelet formation in mutant plants. Our research offers new perspectives on regulatory signaling roles of ALOG transcription factors during the development of reproductive meristems in cereal inflorescences.
Roots play an important role during plant growth and development, ensuring water and nutrient uptake. Understanding the mechanisms regulating their initiation and development opens doors towards root system architecture engineering. Here, we investigated by RNA-seq analysis the changes in gene expression in the barley stem base of 1 day-after-germination (DAG) and 10DAG seedlings when crown roots are formed. We identified 2,333 genes whose expression was lower in the stem base of 10DAG seedlings compared to 1DAG seedlings. Those genes were mostly related to basal cellular activity such as cell cycle organization, protein biosynthesis, chromatin organization, cytoskeleton organization or nucleotide metabolism. In opposite, 2,932 genes showed up-regulation in the stem base of 10DAG seedlings compared to 1DAG seedlings, and their function was related to phytohormone action, solute transport, redox homeostasis, protein modification, secondary metabolism. Our results highlighted genes that are likely involved in the different steps of crown root formation from initiation to primordia differentiation and emergence, and revealed the activation of different hormonal pathways during this process. This whole transcriptomic study is the first study aiming at understanding the molecular mechanisms controlling crown root development in barley. The results shed light on crown root emergence that is likely associated with a strong cell wall modification, death of the cells covering the crown root primordium, and the production of defense molecules that might prevent pathogen infection at the site of root emergence.
The movement of potyviruses, the largest genus of single-stranded, positive-sense RNA viruses responsible for serious diseases in crops, is very complex. As potyviruses developed strategies to hijack the host secretory pathway and plasmodesmata (PD) for their transport, the goal of this study was to identify membrane and/or PD-proteins that interact with the 6K2 protein, a potyviral protein involved in replication and cell-to-cell movement of turnip mosaic virus (TuMV). Using split-ubiquitin membrane yeast two-hybrid assays, we screened an Arabidopsis cDNA library for interactors of
Reproductive phasiRNAs (phased, small interfering RNAs) are broadly present in angiosperms and play crucial roles in sustaining male fertility. While the premeiotic 21-nt (nucleotides) phasiRNAs and meiotic 24-nt phasiRNA pathways have been extensively studied in maize (
Several dwarf and semi-dwarf genes have been identified in barley. However, only a limited number have been effectively utilized in breeding programs to cultivate lodging resistant varieties. This is due to the common association of dwarf and semi-dwarf traits with negative effects on malt quality. In this study, we employed gene editing to generate three new haplotypes of sdw1/denso candidate gene gibberellin (GA) 20-oxidase2 (GA20ox2). These haplotypes induced a dwarfing phenotype and enhancing yield potential, and promoting seed dormancy, thereby reducing pre-harvest sprouting. Moreover, β-amylase activity in the grains of the mutant lines was significantly increased, which is beneficial for malt quality. The haplotype analysis revealed significant genetic divergence of this gene during barley domestication and selection. A novel allele (sdw1.ZU9), containing a 96-bp fragment in the promoter region of HvGA20ox2, was discovered and primarily observed in East Asian and Russian barley varieties. The 96-bp fragment was associated with lower gene expression, leading to lower plant height but higher germination rate. In conclusion, HvGA20ox2 can be potentially used to develop semi-dwarf barley cultivars with high yield and improved malt quality.
This study aimed to investigate the lipid-lowering activity of LFBEP-C1 in high glucose-fed In this study, the fermented barley protein LFBEP-C1 was prepared and tested for its potential anti-obesity effects on Compared with the model group, the head-swing frequency of LFBEP-C1 significantly reduced lipid deposition in
Waterlogging stress is one of the major abiotic stresses affecting the productivity and quality of many crops worldwide. However, the mechanisms of waterlogging tolerance are still elusive in barley. In this study, we identify key differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differential metabolites (DM) that mediate distinct waterlogging tolerance strategies in leaf and root of two barley varieties with contrasting waterlogging tolerance under different waterlogging treatments. Transcriptome profiling revealed that the response of roots was more distinct than that of leaves in both varieties, in which the number of downregulated genes in roots was 7.41-fold higher than that in leaves of waterlogging sensitive variety after 72 h of waterlogging stress. We also found the number of waterlogging stress-induced upregulated DEGs in the waterlogging tolerant variety was higher than that of the waterlogging sensitive variety in both leaves and roots in 1 h and 72 h treatment. This suggested the waterlogging tolerant variety may respond more quickly to waterlogging stress. Meanwhile, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway was identified to play critical roles in waterlogging tolerant variety by improving cell wall biogenesis and peroxidase activity through DEGs such as Peroxidase (PERs) and Cinnamoyl-CoA reductases (CCRs) to improve resistance to waterlogging. Based on metabolomic and transcriptomic analysis, we found the waterlogging tolerant variety can better alleviate the energy deficiency via higher sugar content, reduced lactate accumulation, and improved ethanol fermentation activity compared to the waterlogging sensitive variety. In summary, our results provide waterlogging tolerance strategies in barley to guide the development of elite genetic resources towards waterlogging-tolerant crop varieties.
Silicon application mitigates phosphate deficiency in barley through an interplay with auxin and nitric oxide, enhancing growth, photosynthesis, and redox balance, highlighting the potential of silicon as a fertilizer for overcoming nutritional stresses. Silicon (Si) is reported to attenuate nutritional stresses in plants, but studies on the effect of Si application to plants grown under phosphate (Pi) deficiency are still very scarce, especially in barley. Therefore, the present work was undertaken to investigate the potential role of Si in mitigating the adverse impacts of Pi deficiency in barley Hordeum vulgare L. (var. BH902). Further, the involvement of two key regulatory signaling molecules--auxin and nitric oxide (NO)--in Si-induced tolerance against Pi deficiency in barley was tested. Morphological attributes, photosynthetic parameters, oxidative stress markers (O
Host genotype affects microbiome composition in many plants, but the mechanisms and implications of this phenomenon are understudied. New work in PLOS Biology illustrates how host genotype leads to differential gene expression and fitness in bacteria of the barley rhizosphere.
The cuticle covering aerial organs of land plants is well known to protect against desiccation. Cuticles also play diverse and specialized functions, including organ separation, depending on plant and tissue. Barley shows a distinctive cuticular wax bloom enriched in β-diketones on leaf sheaths, stem nodes and internodes and inflorescences. Barley also develops a sticky surface on the outer pericarp layer of its grain fruit leading to strongly adhered hulls, 'covered grain', important for embryo protection and seed dispersal. While the transcription factor-encoding gene HvNUDUM (HvNUD) appears essential for adherent hulls, little is understood about how the pericarp cuticle changes during adhesion or whether changes in pericarp cuticles contribute to another phenotype where hulls partially shed, called 'skinning'. To that end, we screened barley lines for hull adhesion defects, focussing on the Eceriferum (= waxless, cer) mutants. Here, we show that the cer-xd allele causes defective wax blooms and compromised hull adhesion, and results from a mutation removing the last 10 amino acids of the GDS(L) [Gly, Asp, Ser, (Leu)]-motif esterase/lipase HvGDSL1. We used severe and moderate HvGDSL1 alleles to show that complete HvGDSL1 function is essential for leaf blade cuticular integrity, wax bloom deposition over inflorescences and leaf sheaths and pericarp cuticular ridge formation. Expression data suggest that HvGDSL1 may regulate hull adhesion independently of HvNUD. We found high conservation of HvGDSL1 among barley germplasm, so variation in HvGDSL1 unlikely leads to grain skinning in cultivated barley. Taken together, we reveal a single locus which controls adaptive cuticular properties across different organs in barley.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is an important global cereal crop and a model in genetic studies. Despite advances in characterising barley genomic resources, few mutant studies have identified genes controlling root architecture and anatomy, which plays a critical role in capturing soil resources. Our phenotypic screening of a TILLING mutant collection identified line TM5992 exhibiting a short-root phenotype compared with wild-type (WT) Morex background. Outcrossing TM5992 with barley variety Proctor and subsequent SNP array-based bulk segregant analysis, fine mapped the mutation to a cM scale. Exome sequencing pinpointed a mutation in the candidate gene HvPIN1a, further confirming this by analysing independent mutant alleles. Detailed analysis of root growth and anatomy in Hvpin1a mutant alleles exhibited a slower growth rate, shorter apical meristem and striking vascular patterning defects compared to WT. Expression and mutant analyses of PIN1 members in the closely related cereal brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon) revealed that BdPIN1a and BdPIN1b were redundantly expressed in root vascular tissues but only Bdpin1a mutant allele displayed root vascular defects similar to Hvpin1a. We conclude that barley PIN1 genes have sub-functionalised in cereals, compared to Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), where PIN1a sequences control root vascular patterning.
Plant-associated microbes play vital roles in promoting plant growth and health, with plants secreting root exudates into the rhizosphere to attract beneficial microbes. Exudate composition defines the nature of microbial recruitment, with different plant species attracting distinct microbiota to enable optimal adaptation to the soil environment. To more closely examine the relationship between plant genotype and microbial recruitment, we analysed the rhizosphere microbiomes of landrace (Chevallier) and modern (NFC Tipple) barley (Hordeum vulgare) cultivars. Distinct differences were observed between the plant-associated microbiomes of the 2 cultivars, with the plant-growth promoting rhizobacterial genus Pseudomonas substantially more abundant in the Tipple rhizosphere. Striking differences were also observed between the phenotypes of recruited Pseudomonas populations, alongside distinct genotypic clustering by cultivar. Cultivar-driven Pseudomonas selection was driven by root exudate composition, with the greater abundance of hexose sugars secreted from Tipple roots attracting microbes better adapted to growth on these metabolites and vice versa. Cultivar-driven selection also operates at the molecular level, with both gene expression and the abundance of ecologically relevant loci differing between Tipple and Chevallier Pseudomonas isolates. Finally, cultivar-driven selection is important for plant health, with both cultivars showing a distinct preference for microbes selected by their genetic siblings in rhizosphere transplantation assays.
Amylose biosynthesis is strictly associated with granule-bound starch synthase I (GBSSI) encoded by the Waxy gene. Mutagenesis of single bases in the Waxy gene, which induced by CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing, caused absence of intact GBSSI protein in grain of the edited line. The amylose and amylopectin contents of waxy mutants were zero and 31.73%, while those in the wild type were 33.50% and 39.00%, respectively. The absence of GBSSI protein led to increase in soluble sugar content to 37.30% compared with only 10.0% in the wild type. Sucrose and β-glucan, were 39.16% and 35.40% higher in waxy mutants than in the wild type, respectively. Transcriptome analysis identified differences between the wild type and waxy mutants that could partly explain the reduction in amylose and amylopectin contents and the increase in soluble sugar, sucrose and β-glucan contents. This waxy flour, which showed lower final viscosity and setback, and higher breakdown, could provide more option for food processing.
Barley, rich in bioactive components including dietary fiber, polyphenolic compounds and functional proteins, exhibits health benefits such as regulating glucose and lipid metabolism. Previous studies have found that the content and composition of free phenolic acids in barley may be significantly changed by fermentation with the laboratory patented strain
Cereal grains are an important source of food and feed. To provide comprehensive spatiotemporal information about biological processes in developing seeds of cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare L. subsp. vulgare), we performed a transcriptomic study of the embryo, endosperm, and seed maternal tissues collected from grains 4-32 days after pollination. Weighted gene co-expression network and motif enrichment analyses identified specific groups of genes and transcription factors (TFs) potentially regulating barley seed tissue development. We defined a set of tissue-specific marker genes and families of TFs for functional studies of the pathways controlling barley grain development. Assessing selected groups of chromatin regulators revealed that epigenetic processes are highly dynamic and likely play a major role during barley endosperm development. The repressive H3K27me3 modification is globally reduced in endosperm tissues and at specific genes related to development and storage compounds. Altogether, this atlas uncovers the complexity of developmentally regulated gene expression in developing barley grains.
Thiamine functions as a crucial activator modulating plant health and broad-spectrum stress tolerances. However, the role of thiamine in regulating plant virus infection is largely unknown. Here, we report that the multifunctional 17K protein encoded by barley yellow dwarf virus-GAV (BYDV-GAV) interacted with barley pyrimidine synthase (HvTHIC), a key enzyme in thiamine biosynthesis. HvTHIC was found to be localized in chloroplast via an N-terminal 74-amino acid domain. However, the 17K-HvTHIC interaction restricted HvTHIC targeting to chloroplasts and triggered autophagy-mediated HvTHIC degradation. Upon BYDV-GAV infection, the expression of the HvTHIC gene was significantly induced, and this was accompanied by accumulation of thiamine and salicylic acid. Silencing of HvTHIC expression promoted BYDV-GAV accumulation. Transcriptomic analysis of HvTHIC silenced and non-silenced barley plants showed that the differentially expressed genes were mainly involved in plant-pathogen interaction, plant hormone signal induction, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, starch and sucrose metabolism, photosynthesis-antenna protein, and MAPK signaling pathway. Thiamine treatment enhanced barley resistance to BYDV-GAV. Taken together, our findings reveal a molecular mechanism underlying how BYDV impedes thiamine biosynthesis to uphold viral infection in plants.
Nitrogen (N) is an essential element for plant growth, and its deficiency influences plants at several physiological and gene expression levels. Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is one of the most important food grains from the Poaceae family and one of the most important staple food crops. However, the seed yield is limited by a number of stresses, the most important of which is the insufficient use of N. Thus, there is a need to develop N-use effective cultivars. In this study, comparative physiological and molecular analyses were performed using leaf and root tissues from 10 locally grown barley cultivars. The expression levels of nitrate transporters, HvNRT2 genes, were analyzed in the leaf and root tissues of N-deficient (ND) treatments of barley cultivars after 7 and 14 days following ND treatment as compared to the normal condition. Based on the correlation between the traits, root length (RL) had a positive and highly significant correlation with fresh leaf weight (FLW) and ascorbate peroxidase (APX) concentration in roots, indicating a direct root and leaf relationship with the plant development under ND. From the physiological aspects, ND enhanced carotenoids, chlorophylls a/b (Chla/b), total chlorophyll (TCH), leaf antioxidant enzymes such as ascorbate peroxidase (APX), peroxidase (POD), and catalase (CAT), and root antioxidant enzymes (APX and POD) in the Sahra cultivar. The expression levels of HvNRT2.1, HvNRT2.2, and HvNRT2.4 genes were up-regulated under ND conditions. For the morphological traits, ND maintained root dry weight among the cultivars, except for Sahra. Among the studied cultivars, Sahra responded well to ND stress, making it a suitable candidate for barely improvement programs. These findings may help to better understand the mechanism of ND tolerance and thus lead to the development of cultivars with improved nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) in barley.
In this study, we investigated a deleterious mutation in the β-xylosidase gene, xylA (AkxylA), in Aspergillus luchuensis mut. kawachii IFO 4308 by constructing an AkxylA disruptant and complementation strains of AkxylA and xylA derived from A. luchuensis RIB2604 (AlxylA), which does not harbor the mutation in xylA. Only the AlxylA complementation strain exhibited significantly higher growth and substantial β-xylosidase activity in medium containing xylan, accompanied by an increase in XylA expression. This resulted in lower xylobiose and higher xylose concentrations in the mash of barley shochu. These findings suggest that the mutation in xylA affects xylose levels during the fermentation process. Because the mutation in xylA was identified not only in the genome of strain IFO 4308 but also the genomes of other industrial strains of A. luchuensis and A. luchuensis mut. kawachii, these findings enhance our understanding of the genetic factors that affect the fermentation characteristics.
Partial resistance to multiple biotrophic fungal pathogens in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) is conferred by a variant of the Lr67 gene, which encodes a hexose-proton symporter. Two mutations (G144R and V387L) differentiate the resistant and susceptible protein variants (Lr67res and Lr67sus). Lr67res lacks sugar transport capability and was associated with anion transporter-like properties when expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Here, we extended this functional characterization to include yeast and in planta studies. The Lr67res allele, but not Lr67sus, induced sensitivity to ions in yeast (including NaCl, LiCl, and KI), which is consistent with our previous observations that Lr67res expression in oocytes induces novel ion fluxes. We demonstrate that another naturally occurring single amino acid variant in wheat, containing only the Lr67G144R mutation, confers rust resistance. Transgenic barley plants expressing the orthologous HvSTP13 gene carrying the G144R and V387L mutations were also more resistant to Puccinia hordei infection. NaCl treatment of pot-grown adult wheat plants with the Lr67res allele induced leaf tip necrosis and partial leaf rust resistance. An Lr67res-like function can be introduced into orthologous plant hexose transporters via single amino acid mutation, highlighting the strong possibility of generating disease resistance in other crops, especially with gene editing.
Cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channels (CNGCs), as non-selective cation channels, play essential roles in plant growth and stress responses. However, they have not been identified in Qingke (Hordeum vulgare L.). Here, we performed a comprehensive genome-wide identification and function analysis of the HvCNGC gene family to determine its role in drought tolerance. Phylogenetic analysis showed that 27 HvCNGC genes were divided into four groups and unevenly located on seven chromosomes. Transcription analysis revealed that two closely related members of HvCNGC3 and HvCNGC16 were highly induced and the expression of both genes were distinctly different in two extremely drought-tolerant materials. Transient expression revealed that the HvCNGC3 and HvCNGC16 proteins both localized to the plasma membrane and karyotheca. Overexpression of HvCNGC3 and HvCNGC16 in Arabidopsis thaliana led to impaired seed germination and seedling drought tolerance, which was accompanied by higher hydrogen peroxide (H
Cadmium (Cd) is a widely distributed pollutant that adversely affects plants' metabolism and productivity. Phytohormones play a vital role in the acclimation of plants to metal stress. On the other hand, phytohormones trigger systemic resistances, including systemic acquired resistance (SAR) and induced systemic resistance (ISR), in plants in response to biotic interactions. The present study aimed to investigate the possible induction of SAR and ISR pathways in relation to the hormonal alteration of barley seedlings in response to Cd stress. Barley seedlings were exposed to 1.5 mg g
Plant annexins constitute a conserved protein family that plays crucial roles in regulating plant growth and development, as well as in responses to both biotic and abiotic stresses. In this study, a total of 144 annexin genes were identified in the barley pan-genome, comprising 12 reference genomes, including cultivated barley, landraces, and wild barley. Their chromosomal locations, physical-chemical characteristics, gene structures, conserved domains, and subcellular localizations were systematically analyzed to reveal the certain differences between wild and cultivated populations. Through a cis-acting element analysis, co-expression network, and large-scale transcriptome analysis, their involvement in growth, development, and responses to various stressors was highlighted. It is worth noting that HvMOREXann5 is only expressed in pistils and anthers, indicating its crucial role in reproductive development. Based on the resequencing data from 282 barley accessions worldwide, genetic variations in thefamily were investigated, and the results showed that 5 out of the 12 identified HvMOREXanns were affected by selection pressure. Genetic diversity and haplotype frequency showed notable reductions between wild and domesticated barley, suggesting that a genetic bottleneck occurred on the annexin family during the barley domestication process. Finally, qRT-PCR analysis confirmed the up-regulation of
At 50 wk of age, broiler breeder roosters exhibit a significant decline of fertility. Therefore, the aim of this study was to assess the impact of incorporating barley sprout (BS) powder, D-aspartic acid (DA), or their combination into the diet on fertility, hatchability, semen quality, and the relative expression of StAR and P450
Acyl-CoA-Binding proteins (ACBPs) function as coenzyme A transporters and play important roles in regulating plant growth and development in response to abiotic stress and phytohormones, as well as in membrane repair. To date, the ACBP family has not been a comprehensively characterized in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Eight ACBP genes were identified in the barley genome and named as HvACBP1-8. The analysis of the proteins structure and promoter elements of HvACBP suggested its potential functions in plant growth, development, and stress response. These HvACBPs are expressed in specific tissues and organs following induction by abiotic stressors such as drought, salinity, UV-B exposure, temperature extremes, and exposure to exogenous phytohormones. The HvACBP7 and HvACBP8 amino acid sequences were conserved during the domestication of Tibetan Qingke barley. Acyl-CoA-binding proteins may play important roles in barley growth and environmental adaptation. This study provides foundation for further analyses of the biological functions of HvACBPs in the barley stress response.
Harder kernels of barley are regarded as one of the factors that restrict water and enzyme movement within the endosperm during malting. A comprehensive study of two domestic varieties was performed for evaluating malting quality. Both β-glucan and total protein content of the Chinese domestic barley (Ganpi-6 and Kenpi-14) were significantly higher than Copeland. Grain hardness of the Chinese domestic barley was higher and water uptake ratio was lower compared with the Copeland. During germination, the expression levels of NCED1, NCED2 (major key regulatory enzymes for abscisic acid biosynthesis genes) were higher, whereas gibberelic acid (GA) synthesis genes (GA20ox1, GA2ox3, GA3ox2) were lower in the Ganpi-6, Kenpi-14 compared with Copeland. These two domestic barley varieties also showed significantly lower limit dextrinase and β-glucanase activity compared with Copeland. Ultrasound treatment improved the malting quality of Ganpi-6 by enhancing water uptake and GA synthesis gene expression increased. Therefore, these findings provided insights into the future direction on the utilization of ultrasonication for the applications towards the improvement of the harder barley variety.
In a recent study, Zhang et al. identified that MADS1-regulated lemma and awn development can positively regulate barley yield. This finding, alongside the demonstration that the function of MADS1 is conserved in wheat, suggests it is an important target for the improvement of Triticeae crops.
Barley (H. vulgare L.) is an important cereal crop cultivated across various climates globally. Barley and its ancestor (H. vulgare subsp. spontaneum) are an economically valuable model for genetic research and improvement. Drought, among various abiotic stresses, is a substantial threat to agriculture due to its unpredictable nature and significant impact on crop yield. This study was conducted in both greenhouse and laboratory settings. Prior to the study, wild barley accessions were pre-selected based on their sensitivity or tolerance to drought as determined from fieldwork in the 2020-2021 and 2021-2022 cropping seasons. The effects of three levels of drought stress were evaluated (control, 90-95% field capacity [FC]; mild stress, 50-55% FC; and severe stress, 25-30% FC). Several parameters were assessed, including seedling and root growth, enzymatic activity (CAT, SOD, POD), soluble protein levels, chlorophyll content, carotenoids, abaxial and adaxial stomatal density and dimensions, and relative gene expression of Dhn1, SOD, POD, and CAT. Drought stress significantly increased enzyme activities, especially at 25-30% FC, and more in the tolerant genotype. On the other hand, sensitive genotypes showed a notable increase in stomatal density. Under drought stress, there was a general decline in seedling and root growth, protein content, chlorophyll and carotenoids, and stomatal dimensions. Importantly, gene expression analysis revealed that Dhn1, SOD, POD, and CAT were upregulated under drought, with the highest expression levels observed in the drought-tolerant genotype under severe stress conditions (25-30% FC). Our investigation highlights the distinct morphological, physiological, biochemical, and gene-expression profiles of drought-resistant and drought-sensitive wild barley genotypes under varying degrees of drought.
Fatty acid desaturases (FADs) play pivotal roles in determining plant stress tolerance. Barley is the most salt-tolerant cereal crop. In this study, we performed genome-wide identification and characterization analysis of the
Barley ranks fourth in global cereal production and is primarily grown for animal feed and malt. Hordeins, the principal barley seed storage proteins, are homologous to wheat gluten and when ingested elicit an immune response in people with Coeliac disease. Risø 1508 is a chemically induced barley mutant with low hordein levels imparted by the lys3.a locus that is reported to be caused by an SNP in the barley prolamin-box binding factor gene (BPBF). Reports suggest the lys3.a locus prevents CG DNA demethylation at the Hor2 (B-hordein) promoter during grain development subsequently causing hypermethylation and inhibiting gene expression. In lys3.a mutants, endosperm-specific β-amylase (Bmy1) and Hor2 are similarly downregulated during grain development and thus we hypothesize that the inability to demethylate the Bmy1 promoter CG islands is also causing Bmy1 downregulation. We use whole-genome bisulfite sequencing and mRNA-seq on developing endosperms from two lys3.a mutants and a lys3.b mutant to determine all downstream genes affected by lys3 mutations. RNAseq analysis identified 306 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) shared between all mutants and their parents and 185 DEGs shared between both lys3.a mutants and their parents. Global DNA methylation levels and promoter CG DNA methylation levels were not significantly different between the mutants and their parents and thus refute the hypothesis that the lys3.a mutant's phenotype is caused by dysregulation of demethylation during grain development. The majority of DEGs were downregulated (e.g., B- and C-hordeins and Bmy1), but some DEGs were upregulated (e.g., β-glucosidase, D-hordein) suggesting compensatory effects and potentially explaining the low β-glucan phenotype observed in lys3.a germplasm. These findings have implications on human health and provide novel insight to barley breeders regarding the use of BPBF transcription factor mutants to create gluten-free barley varieties.
Hardly anything is known regarding the detoxification of surfactants in crop plants, although they are frequently treated with agrochemical formulations. Therefore, we studied transcriptomic changes in barley leaves induced in response to spraying leaf surfaces with two alcohol ethoxylates (AEs). As model surfactants, we selected the monodisperse tetraethylene glycol monododecyl (C
Heveins are one of the most important groups of plant antimicrobial peptides. So far, various roles in plant growth and development and in response to biotic and abiotic stresses have reported for heveins. The present study aimed to identify and characterize the hevein genes in two-row and six-row cultivars of barley. In total, thirteen hevein genes were identified in the genome of two-row and six-row cultivars of barley. The identified heveins were identical in two-row and six-row cultivars of barley and showed a high similarity with heveins from other plant species. The hevein coding sequences produced open reading frames (ORFs) ranged from 342 to 1002 bp. Most of the identified hevein genes were intronless, and the others had only one intron. The hevein ORFs produced proteins ranged from 113 to 333 amino acids. Search for conserved functional domains showed CBD and LYZ domains in barley heveins. All barley heveins comprised extracellular signal peptides ranged from 19 to 35 amino acids. The phylogenetic analysis divided barley heveins into two groups. The promoter analysis showed regulatory elements with different frequencies between two-row and six-row cultivars. These cis-acting elements included elements related to growth and development, hormone response, and environmental stresses. The expression analysis showed high expression level of heveins in root and reproductive organs of both two-row and six-row cultivars. The expression analysis also showed that barley heveins is induced by both biotic and abiotic stresses. The results of antimicrobial activity prediction showed the highest antimicrobial activity in CBD domain of barley heveins. The findings of the current study can improve our knowledge about the role of hevein genes in plant and can be used for future studies.
The HD-ZIP class I transcription factor Homeobox 1 (HvHOX1), also known as Vulgare Row-type Spike 1 (VRS1) or Six-rowed Spike 1, regulates lateral spikelet fertility in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). It was shown that HvHOX1 has a high expression only in lateral spikelets, while its paralog HvHOX2 was found to be expressed in different plant organs. Yet, the mechanistic functions of HvHOX1 and HvHOX2 during spikelet development are still fragmentary. Here, we show that compared with HvHOX1, HvHOX2 is more highly conserved across different barley genotypes and Hordeum species, hinting at a possibly vital but still unclarified biological role. Using bimolecular fluorescence complementation, DNA-binding, and transactivation assays, we validate that HvHOX1 and HvHOX2 are bona fide transcriptional activators that may potentially heterodimerize. Accordingly, both genes exhibit similar spatiotemporal expression patterns during spike development and growth, albeit their mRNA levels differ quantitatively. We show that HvHOX1 delays the lateral spikelet meristem differentiation and affects fertility by aborting the reproductive organs. Interestingly, the ancestral relationship of the two genes inferred from their co-expressed gene networks suggested that HvHOX1 and HvHOX2 might play a similar role during barley spikelet development. However, CRISPR-derived mutants of HvHOX1 and HvHOX2 demonstrated the suppressive role of HvHOX1 on lateral spikelets, while the loss of HvHOX2 does not influence spikelet development. Collectively, our study shows that through the suppression of reproductive organs, lateral spikelet fertility is regulated by HvHOX1, whereas HvHOX2 is dispensable for spikelet development in barley.
In plants, the contribution of the plasmotype (mitochondria and chloroplast) in controlling the circadian clock plasticity and possible consequences on cytonuclear genetic makeup have yet to be fully elucidated. A genome-wide association study in the wild barley (Hordeum vulgare ssp. spontaneum) B1K collection identified overlap with our previously mapped DRIVERS OF CLOCKS (DOCs) loci in wild-cultivated interspecific population. Moreover, we identified non-random segregation and epistatic interactions between nuclear DOCs loci and the chloroplastic RpoC1 gene, indicating an adaptive value for specific cytonuclear gene combinations. Furthermore, we show that DOC1.1, which harbours the candidate SIGMA FACTOR-B (SIG-B) gene, is linked with the differential expression of SIG-B and CCA1 genes and contributes to the circadian gating response to heat. High-resolution temporal growth and photosynthesis measurements of B1K also link the DOCs loci to differential growth, Chl content and quantum yield. To validate the involvement of the Plastid encoded polymerase (PEP) complex, we over-expressed the two barley chloroplastic RpoC1 alleles in Arabidopsis and identified significant differential plasticity under elevated temperatures. Finally, enhanced clock plasticity of de novo ENU (N-Ethyl-N-nitrosourea) -induced barley rpoB1 mutant further implicates the PEP complex as a key player in regulating the circadian clock output. Overall, this study highlights the contribution of specific cytonuclear interaction between rpoC1 (PEP gene) and SIG-B with distinct circadian timing regulation under heat, and their pleiotropic effects on growth implicate an adaptive value.
The combined stress of drought and salinity is prevalent in various regions of the world, affects several physiological and biochemical processes in crops, and causes their yield to decrease. Photosynthesis is one of the main processes that are disturbed by combined stress. Therefore, improving the photosynthetic efficiency of crops is one of the most promising strategies to overcome environmental stresses, making studying the molecular basis of regulation of photosynthesis a necessity. In this study, we sought a potential mechanism that regulated a major component of the combined stress response in the important crop barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), namely the Rubisco activase A (RcaA) gene. Promoter analysis of the RcaA gene led to identifying Jasmonic acid (JA)-responsive elements with a high occurrence. Specifically, a Myelocytomatosis oncogenes 2 (MYC2) transcription factor binding site was highlighted as a plausible functional promoter motif. We conducted a controlled greenhouse experiment with an abiotic stress-susceptible barley genotype and evaluated expression profiling of the RcaA and MYC2 genes, photosynthetic parameters, plant water status, and cell membrane damages under JA, combined drought and salinity stress (CS) and JA + CS treatments. Our results showed that applying JA enhances barley's photosynthetic efficiency and water relations and considerably compensates for the adverse effects of combined stress. Significant association was observed among gene expression profiles and evaluated physiochemical characteristics. The results showed a plausible regulatory route through the JA-dependent MYC2-RcaA module involved in photosynthesis regulation and combined stress tolerance. These findings provide valuable knowledge for further functional studies of the regulation of photosynthesis under abiotic stresses toward the development of multiple-stress-tolerant crops.
Phenolic acid exhibits a variety of well-known physiological functions. In this study, optimal germination conditions to ensure total phenolic acid enrichment in barley sprouts induced by salicylic acid treatment and its effects on sprout physiology and activity, as well as the gene expression of key enzymes for phenolic acid biosynthesis, were investigated. When sprouts were treated with 1 mmol L Salicylic acid treatment during barley germination significantly promoted the enrichment of total phenolic acid by increasing the activities and gene expression levels of enzymes involved in the phenolic acid biosynthesis pathway. Salicylic acid induced the accumulation of reactive oxygen species, inhibited sprout growth, and activated the antioxidant system. This study provides a basis for the future development of functional foods using phenol acid-rich plants as raw materials. © 2024 Society of Chemical Industry.
FHY3 and its homologous protein FAR1 are the founding members of FRS family. They exhibited diverse and powerful physiological functions during evolution, and participated in the response to multiple abiotic stresses. FRF genes are considered to be truncated FRS family proteins. They competed with FRS for DNA binding sites to regulate gene expression. However, only few studies are available on FRF genes in plants participating in the regulation of abiotic stress. With wide adaptability and high stress-resistance, barley is an excellent candidate for the identification of stress-resistance-related genes. In this study, 22
The indole alkaloid gramine, 3-(dimethylaminomethyl)indole, is a defensive specialized metabolite found in some barley cultivars. In its biosynthetic process, the tryptophan (Trp) side chain is shortened by two carbon atoms to produce 3-(aminomethyl)indole (AMI), which is then methylated by N-methyltransferase (HvNMT) to produce gramine. Although side chain shortening is one of the crucial scaffold formation steps of alkaloids originating from aromatic amino acids, the gene and enzyme involved in the Trp-AMI conversion reactions are unknown. In this study, through RNA-seq analysis, 35 transcripts were shown to correlate with gramine production; among them, an uncharacterized cytochrome P450 (CYP) gene, CYP76M57, and HvNMT were identified as candidate genes for gramine production. Transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana and rice overexpressing CYP and HvNMT accumulate AMI, N-methyl-AMI, and gramine. CYP76M57, heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris, was able to act on Trp to produce AMI. Furthermore, the amino group nitrogen of Trp was retained during the CYP76M57-catalyzed reaction, indicating that the C
Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) is an oxidoreductase. In damaged plant tissues, it catalyzes enzymatic browning by oxidizing
Brassinosteroids (BRs) are a class of plant steroid hormones that are essential for plant growth and development. BRs control important agronomic traits and responses to abiotic stresses. Through the signaling pathway, BRs control the expression of thousands of genes, resulting in a variety of biological responses. The key effectors of the BR pathway are two transcription factors (TFs): BRASSINAZOLE RESISTANT 1 (BZR1) and BRI1-EMSSUPPRESSOR 1 (BES1). Both TFs are phosphorylated and inactivated by the Glycogen synthase kinase 3 BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE2 (BIN2), which acts as a negative regulator of the BR pathway. In our study, we describe the functional characteristics of
The stimulation of growth and development of crops using ionising radiation (radiation hormesis) has been reported by many research groups. However, specific genes contributing to the radiation stimulation of plant growth are largely unknown. In this work, we studied the impact of the low-dose γ-irradiation of barley seeds on the growth dynamics and gene expression of eight barley cultivars in a greenhouse experiment. Our findings confirmed that candidate genes of the radiation growth stimulation, previously established in barley seedlings (
Drought poses a major threat to agricultural production and thus food security. Understanding the processes shaping plant responses to water deficit is essential for global food safety. Though many studies examined the effect of water deficit on the whole-root level, the distinct functions of each root zone and their specific stress responses remain masked by this approach. In this study, we investigated the effect of water deficit on root development of the spring barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivar Morex and examined transcriptomic responses at the level of longitudinal root zones. Water deficit significantly reduced root growth rates after two days of treatment. RNA-sequencing revealed root zone and temporal gene expression changes depending on the duration of water deficit treatment. The majority of water deficit-regulated genes were unique for their respective root zone-by-treatment combination, though they were associated with commonly enriched gene ontology terms. Among these, we found terms associated with transport, detoxification, or cell wall formation affected by water deficit. Integration of weighted gene co-expression analyses identified differential hub genes, that highlighted the importance of modulating energy and protein metabolism and stress response. Our findings provide new insights into the highly dynamic and spatiotemporal response cascade triggered by water deficit and the underlying genetic regulations on the level of root zones in the barley cultivar Morex, providing potential targets to enhance plant resilience against environmental constraints. This study further emphasizes the importance of considering spatial and temporal resolution when examining stress responses.
Barley genomic resources are increasing rapidly, with the publication of a barley pangenome as one of the latest developments. Two-row spring barley cultivars are intensely studied as they are the source of high-quality grain for malting and distilling. Here we provide data from a European two-row spring barley population containing 209 different genotypes registered for the UK market between 1830 to 2014. The dataset encompasses RNA-sequencing data from six different tissues across a range of barley developmental stages, phenotypic datasets from two consecutive years of field-grown trials in the United Kingdom, Germany and the USA; and whole genome shotgun sequencing from all cultivars, which was used to complement the RNA-sequencing data for variant calling. The outcomes are a filtered SNP marker file, a phenotypic database and a large gene expression dataset providing a comprehensive resource which allows for downstream analyses like genome wide association studies or expression associations.
Stearoyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP) Δ9 desaturase (SAD) is a critical fatty acid dehydrogenase in plants, playing a prominent role in regulating the synthesis of unsaturated fatty acids (UFAs) and having a significant impact on plant growth and development. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive genomic analysis of the SAD family in barley (
Gibberellin (GA) is a vital phytohormone in regulating plant growth and development. During the "Green Revolution", modification of GA-related genes created semi-dwarfing phenotype in cereal crops but adversely affected grain weight. Gibberellin 2-oxidases (GA2oxs) in barley act as key catabolic enzymes in deactivating GA, but their functions are still less known. This study investigates the physiological function of two HvGA2ox genes in barley and identifies novel semi-dwarf alleles with minimum impacts on other agronomic traits. Virus-induced gene silencing and CRISPR/Cas9 technology were used to manipulate gene expression of HvGA2ox9 and HvGA2ox8a in barley and RNA-seq was conducted to compare the transcriptome between wild type and mutants. Also, field trials in multiple environments were performed to detect the functional haplotypes. There were ten GA2oxs that distinctly expressed in shoot, tiller, inflorescence, grain, embryo and root. Knockdown of HvGA2ox9 did not affect plant height, while ga2ox8a mutants generated by CRISPR/Cas9 increased plant height and significantly altered seed width and weight due to the increased bioactive GA Our results demonstrate the potential of manipulating GA2ox genes to fine tune GA signalling and biofunctions in desired plant tissues and open a promising avenue for minimising the trade-off effects of Green Revolution semi-dwarfing genes on grain size and weight. The knowledge will promote the development of next generation barley cultivars with better adaptation to a changing climate.
Wheat and barley rank among the main crops cultivated on a global scale, providing the essential nutritional foundation for both humans and animals. Nevertheless, these crops are vulnerable to several fungal diseases, such as Septoria tritici blotch and net blotch, which significantly reduce yields by adversely affecting leaves and grain quality. To mitigate the effect of these diseases, chemical fungicides have proven to be genuinely effective; however, they impose a serious environmental burden. Currently, biocontrol agents have attracted attention as a sustainable alternative to fungicides, offering an eco-friendly option. The study aimed to assess the efficacy of Bacillus velezensis BE2 in reducing disease symptoms caused by Zymoseptoria tritici and Pyrenophora teres. This bacterium exhibited significant antagonistic effects in vitro by suppressing fungal development when pathogens and the beneficial strain were in direct confrontation. These findings were subsequently confirmed through microscopic analysis, which illustrated the strain's capacity to inhibit spore germination and mycelial growth in both pathogens. Additionally, the study analysed the cell-free supernatant of the bacterium using UPLC-MS (ultra-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry). The results revealed that strain BE2 produces, among other metabolites, different families of cyclic lipopeptides that may be involved in biocontrol. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of strain BE2 in planta were assessed by quantifying the fungal DNA content directly at the leaf level after bacterization, using two different application methods (foliar and drenching). The results indicated that applying the beneficial bacterium at the root level significantly reduced pathogens pressure. Finally, gene expression analysis of different markers showed that BE2 application induced a priming effect within the first hours after infection. KEY POINTS:  BE2 managed Z. tritici and P. teres by direct antagonism and induced systemic resistance.  Strain BE2 produced seven metabolite families, including three cyclic lipopeptides.  Application of strain BE2 at the root level triggered plant defense mechanisms.
Tocotrienols and tocopherols (vitamin E) are potent antioxidants that are synthesized in green plants. Unlike ubiquitous tocopherols, tocotrienols predominantly accumulate in the endosperm of monocot grains, catalyzed by homogentiate geranylgeranyl transferase (HGGT). Previously, we generated a tocotrienol-deficient
Precise localization and dissection of gene promoters are key to understanding transcriptional gene regulation and to successful bioengineering applications. The core RNA polymerase II initiation machinery is highly conserved among eukaryotes, leading to a general expectation of equivalent underlying mechanisms. Still, less is known about promoters in the plant kingdom. In this study, we employed cap analysis of gene expression (CAGE) at three embryonic developmental stages in barley to accurately map, annotate, and quantify transcription initiation events. Unsupervised discovery of de novo sequence clusters grouped promoters based on characteristic initiator and position-specific core-promoter motifs. This grouping was complemented by the annotation of transcription factor binding site (TFBS) motifs. Integration with genome-wide epigenomic data sets and gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis further delineated the chromatin environments and functional roles of genes associated with distinct promoter categories. The TATA-box presence governs all features explored, supporting the general model of two separate genomic regulatory environments. We describe the extent and implications of alternative transcription initiation events, including those that are specific to developmental stages, which can affect the protein sequence or the presence of regions that regulate translation. The generated promoterome dataset provides a valuable genomic resource for enhancing the functional annotation of the barley genome. It also offers insights into the transcriptional regulation of individual genes and presents opportunities for the informed manipulation of promoter architecture, with the aim of enhancing traits of agronomic importance.
Yellow Stripe-Like (YSL) proteins are involved in the uptake and transport of metal ions. They play important roles in maintaining the zinc and iron homeostasis in Arabidopsis, rice (Oryza sativa), and barley (Hordeum vulgare). However, proteins in this family have not been fully identified and comprehensively analyzed in maize (Zea mays L.). In this study, we identified 19 ZmYSLs in the maize genome and analyzed their structural features. The results of a phylogenetic analysis showed that ZmYSLs are homologous to YSLs of Arabidopsis and rice, and these proteins are divided into four independent branches. Although their exons and introns have structural differences, the motif structure is relatively conserved. Analysis of the cis-regulatory elements in the promoters indicated that ZmYSLs might play a role in response to hypoxia and light. The results of RNA sequencing and quantitative real-time PCR analysis revealed that ZmYSLs are expressed in various tissues and respond differently to zinc and iron deficiency. The subcellular localization of ZmYSLs in the protoplast of maize mesophyll cells showed that they may function in the membrane system. This study provided important information for the further functional analysis of ZmYSL, especially in the spatio-temporal expression and adaptation to nutrient deficiency stress. Our findings provided important genes resources for the maize biofortification.
HvBGlu3, a β-glucosidase enzyme gene, negatively influences β-glucan content in barley grains by mediating starch and sucrose metabolism in developing grains. Barley grains are rich in β-glucan, an important factor affecting end-use quality. Previously, we identified several stable marker-trait associations (MTAs) and novel candidate genes associated with β-glucan content in barley grains using GWAS (Genome Wide Association Study) analysis. The gene HORVU3Hr1G096910, encoding β-glucosidase 3, named HvBGlu3, is found to be associated with β-glucan content in barley grains. In this study, conserved domain analysis suggested that HvBGlu3 belongs to glycoside hydrolase family 1 (GH1). Gene knockout assay revealed that HvBGlu3 negatively influenced β-glucan content in barley grains. Transcriptome analysis of developing grains of hvbglu3 mutant and the wild type indicated that the knockout of the gene led to the increased expression level of genes involved in starch and sucrose metabolism. Glucose metabolism analysis showed that the contents of many sugars in developing grains were significantly changed in hvbglu3 mutants. In conclusion, HvBGlu3 modulates β-glucan content in barley grains by mediating starch and sucrose metabolism in developing grains. The obtained results may be useful for breeders to breed elite barley cultivars for food use by screening barley lines with loss of function of HvBGlu3 in barley breeding.
Cold stress, as an abiotic stress, is one of the most limiting factors which pose a great threat to the plant's productivity. To understand the transcriptional regulation and connectivity pattern of genes involved in barley cold stress responses, co-expression network analysis was performed based on the global transcriptome profiling. The microarray datasets related to cold stress treatments were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and Array express databases. Four microarray datasets related to cold stress-responsive transcriptome in barley were included in our study. Gene co-expression analysis was constructed using WGCNA method. Module-Trait Relationships (MTR) analysis and hub genes determination and validation were carried out. Finally, transcription factor and kinase regulatory networks were Inferred using machine learning algorithm. The co-expression modules were determined using beta index = 10. In total 13 co-expressed modules were identified with an average size of 153 genes. Functional enrichment based on gene ontology (GO) showed that each of the stress related significant modules were enriched in different biological processes. Annotation of significant modules identifies some TFs and Kinases such as ethylene-responsive transcription factor 1-like, transcription factor PCL1-like, transcription factor MYC2, WRKY, serine/threonine-protein kinase PBL7, and receptor-like protein kinase At2g42960 were contributed in barley cold stress response. Our analysis highlighted the functional importance of ABA signaling pathway, ROS signaling, defensive and protective proteins, degrading protein, Ca2
Drought is a major abiotic stress that impairs the physiology and development of plants, ultimately leading to crop yield losses. Drought tolerance is a complex quantitative trait influenced by multiple genes and metabolic pathways. However, molecular intricacies and subsequent morphological and physiological changes in response to drought stress remain elusive. Herein, we combined morpho-physiological and comparative RNA-sequencing analyses to identify core drought-induced marker genes and regulatory networks in the barley cultivar 'Giza134'. Based on field trials, drought-induced declines occurred in crop growth rate, relative water content, leaf area duration, flag leaf area, concentration of chlorophyll (Chl) a, b and a + b, net photosynthesis, and yield components. In contrast, the Chl a/b ratio, stoma resistance, and proline concentration increased significantly. RNA-sequence analysis identified a total of 2462 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), of which 1555 were up-regulated and 907 were down-regulated in response to water-deficit stress (WD). Comparative transcriptomics analysis highlighted three unique metabolic pathways (carbohydrate metabolism, iron ion binding, and oxidoreductase activity) as containing genes differentially expressed that could mitigate water stress. Our results identified several drought-induced marker genes belonging to diverse physiochemical functions like chlorophyll concentration, photosynthesis, light harvesting, gibberellin biosynthetic, iron homeostasis as well as Cis-regulatory elements. These candidate genes can be utilized to identify gene-associated markers to develop drought-resilient barley cultivars over a short period of time. Our results provide new insights into the understanding of water stress response mechanisms in barley.
Organic phosphorus (OP) is an essential component of the soil P cycle, which contributes to barley nutrition after its mineralization into inorganic phosphorus (Pi). However, the dynamics of OP utilization in the barley rhizosphere remain unclear. In this study, phytin was screened out from six OP carriers, which could reflect the difference in OP utilization between a P-inefficient genotype Baudin and a P-efficient genotype CN4027. The phosphorus utilization efficiency (PUE), root morphological traits, and expression of genes associated with P utilization were assessed under P deficiency or phytin treatments. P deficiency resulted in a greater root surface area and thicker roots. In barley fed with phytin as a P carrier, the APase activities of CN4027 were 2-3-fold lower than those of Baudin, while the phytase activities of CN4027 were 2-3-fold higher than those of Baudin. The PUE in CN4027 was mainly enhanced by activating phytase to improve the root absorption and utilization of Pi resulting from OP mineralization, while the PUE in Baudin was mainly enhanced by activating APase to improve the shoot reuse capacity. A phosphate transporter gene
We evaluated whether barley flour consumption in a high-fat environment affects lipid metabolism through signals mediated by bile acids. Four-week-old mice were fed a high-fat diet supplemented with cellulose (HC) or β-glucan-rich barley flour (HB) for 12 weeks. Bile acid composition in the intestinal tract and feces was measured by GC/MS. Gene expression levels involved in bile acid metabolism in the liver and intestinal tract were determined by RT-PCR. Similar parameters were measured in mice treated with antibiotics (antibiotics-cellulose [AC] and antibiotics-barley [AB]) to reduce the activity of intestinal bacteria. The Results showed that the HB group had lower liver blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels than the HC group. The HB group showed a significant decrease in primary bile acids in the gastrointestinal tract compared to the HC group. On the other hand, the concentration of secondary bile acids relatively increased in the cecum and feces. In the liver, Fxr activation suppressed gene expression levels in synthesizing bile acids and lipids. Furthermore, in the gastrointestinal tract, Tgr5 was activated by increased secondary bile acids. Correspondingly, AMP levels were increased in the HB group compared to the HC group, AMPK was phosphorylated in the liver, and gene expression involved in lipid synthesis was downregulated. A comparison of the AC and AB groups treated with antibiotics did not confirm these effects of barley intake. In summary, our results suggest that the prevention of lipid accumulation by barley consumption involves signaling through changes in bile acid composition in the intestinal tract.
Barley is the most salt-tolerant cereal crop. However, little attention has been paid to the salt-tolerant doubled haploids of barley derived from mutagenesis combined with isolated microspore culture. In the present study, barley doubled haploid (DH) line 20, which was produced by mutagenesis combined with isolated microspore culture, showed stably and heritably better salt tolerance than the wild type H30 in terms of fresh shoot weight, dry shoot weight, K
The jacalin-related lectins (JRLs) are widely distributed in plants and are involved in plant development and multiple stress responses. However, the characteristics of the
Previous findings have shown that phospholipase D (PLD) contributes to the response to long-term chilling stress in barley by regulating the balance of proline (Pro) levels. Although Pro accumulation is one of the most prominent changes in barley roots exposed to this kind of stress, the regulation of its metabolism during recovery from stress remains unclear. Research has mostly focused on the responses to stress per se, and not much is known about the dynamics and mechanisms underlying the subsequent recovery. The present study aimed to evaluate how PLD, its product phosphatidic acid (PA), and diacylglycerol pyrophosphate (DGPP) modulate Pro accumulation in barley during recovery from long-term chilling stress. Pro metabolism involves different pathways and enzymes. The rate-limiting step is mediated by pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS) in its biosynthesis, and by proline dehydrogenase (ProDH) in its catabolism. We observed that Pro levels decreased in recovering barley roots due to an increase in ProDH activity. The addition of 1-butanol, a PLD inhibitor, reverted this effect and altered the relative gene expression of ProDH. When barley tissues were treated with PA before recovery, the fresh weight of roots increased and ProDH activity was stimulated. These data contribute to our understanding of how acidic membrane phospholipids like PA help to control Pro degradation during recovery from stress.
Plant respiratory burst oxidase homolog (Rboh) gene family produces reactive oxygen species (ROS), and it plays key roles in plant-microbe interaction. Most Rboh gene family-related studies mainly focused on dicotyledonous plants; however, little is known about the roles of Rboh genes in gramineae. A total of 106 Rboh genes were identified in seven gramineae species, including Zea mays, Sorghum bicolor, Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa, Setaria italica, Hordeum vulgare, and Triticum aestivum. The Rboh protein sequences showed high similarities, suggesting that they may have conserved functions across different species. Duplication mode analysis detected whole-genome/segmental duplication (WGD)/(SD) and dispersed in the seven species. Interestingly, two local duplication (LD, including tandem and proximal duplication) modes were found in Z. mays, S. italica and H. vulgare, while four LD were detected in T. aestivum, indicating that these genes may have similar functions. Collinearity analysis indicated that Rboh genes are at a stable evolution state in all the seven species. Besides, Rboh genes from Z. mays were closely related to those from S. bicolor, consistent with the current understanding of plant evolutionary history. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the genes in the subgroups I and II may participate in plant-AM fungus symbiosis. Cis-element analysis showed that different numbers of elements are related to fungal induction in the promoter region. Expression profiles of Rboh genes in Z. mays suggested that Rboh genes had distinct spatial expression patterns. By inoculation with AM fungi, our transcriptome analysis showed that the expression of Rboh genes varies upon AM fungal inoculation. In particularly, ZmRbohF was significantly upregulated after inoculation with AM fungi. pZmRbohF::GUS expression analyses indicated that ZmRbohF was induced by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in maize. By comparing WT and ZmRbohF mutant, we found ZmRbohF had limited impact on the establishment of maize-AM fungi symbiosis, but play critical roles in regulating the proper development of arbuscules. This study provides a comprehensive analysis of the evolution relationship of Rboh genes in seven gramineae species. Results showed that several Rboh genes regulate maize-AM fungal symbiosis process. This study provides valuable information for further studies of Rboh genes in gramineae.
As a non-coding RNA, microRNA (miRNA) has been proven to play an important role in the development and progression of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Highland barley is a whole grain from the Tibetan areas of China. Our previous studies have demonstrated its hypoglycemic effect. To further explore the underlining molecular mechanism, we investigated the effect of highland barley intervention on liver miRNA expression profiles in diabetic mice. Our results showed that ten differentially expressed miRNA among different groups were identified and their target genes were predicted. Remarkably, many glycometabolism-associated genes, including Foxo3, Nras, Rptor, Igf1r, Tsc2 and Braf, were negatively regulated by miR-122-5p, miR-503-5p, miR-455-5p and miR-210-3p, respectively. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed these target genes were mainly involved in AMPK, MAPK and FOXO signaling pathways. Thereby, these miRNA and mRNA were validated using qRT-PCR, and the results were consistent with the small RNA-seq and expectations. Highland barley could regulate the MAPK, AMPK, and FOXO signaling pathways by regulating critical miRNA-mRNA pairs, e.x. miR-210-3p-Tsc2/Braf, miR-122-5p-Foxo3, and miR-455-5p-Igf1r, thereby improving blood glucose metabolism in diabetic mice. The present study preliminarily explored the hypoglycaemic effects of highland barley based on transcriptomics, and more detailed and in-depth studies on this topic are needed in the future.
Efficient micronutrient acquisition is a critical factor in selecting micronutrient dense crops for human consumption. Enhanced exudation and re-uptake of metal chelators, so-called phytosiderophores, by roots of graminaceous plants has been implicated in efficient micronutrient acquisition. We compared PS biosynthesis and exudation as a response mechanism to either Fe, Zn or Cu starvation. Two barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) lines with contrasting micronutrient grain yields were grown hydroponically and PS exudation (LC-MS) and root gene expression (RNAseq) were determined after either Fe, Zn, or Cu starvation. The response strength of the PS pathway was micronutrient dependent and decreased in the order Fe > Zn > Cu deficiency. We observed a stronger expression of PS pathway genes and greater PS exudation in the barley line with large micronutrient grain yield suggesting that a highly expressed PS pathway might be an important trait involved in high micronutrient accumulation. In addition to several metal specific transporters, we also found that the expression of IRO2 and bHLH156 transcription factors was not only induced under Fe but also under Zn and Cu deficiency. Our study delivers important insights into the role of the PS pathway in the acquisition of different micronutrients.
Chloroplast biogenesis is critical for crop biomass and economic yield. However, chloroplast development is a very complicated process coordinated by cross-communication between the nucleus and plastids, and the underlying mechanisms have not been fully revealed. To explore the regulatory machinery for chloroplast biogenesis, we conducted map-based cloning of the Grandpa 1 (Gpa1) gene regulating chloroplast development in barley. The spontaneous mutation gpa1.a caused a variegation phenotype of the leaf, dwarfed growth, reduced grain yield, and increased tiller number. Genetic mapping anchored the Gpa1 gene onto 2H within a gene cluster functionally related to photosynthesis or chloroplast differentiation. One gene (HORVU.MOREX.r3.2HG0213170) in the delimited region encodes a putative plastid terminal oxidase (PTOX) in thylakoid membranes, which is homologous to IMMUTANS (IM) of Arabidopsis. The IM gene is required for chloroplast biogenesis and maintenance of functional thylakoids in Arabidopsis. Using CRISPR technology and gene transformation, we functionally validated that the PTOX-encoding gene, HORVU.MOREX.r3.2HG0213170, is the causal gene of Gpa1. Gene expression and chemical analysis revealed that the carotenoid biosynthesis pathway is suppressed by the gpa1 mutation, rendering mutants vulnerable to photobleaching. Our results showed that the overtillering associated with the gpa1 mutation was caused by the lower accumulation of carotenoid-derived strigolactones (SLs) in the mutant. The cloning of Gpa1 not only improves our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying chloroplast biosynthesis but also indicates that the PTOX activity is conserved between monocots and dicots for the establishment of the photosynthesis factory.
Grain number and size determine grain yield in crops and are closely associated with spikelet fertility and grain filling in barley (Hordeum vulgare). Abortion of spikelet primordia within individual barley spikes causes a 30%-50% loss in the potential number of grains during development from the awn primordium stage to the tipping stage, after that grain filling is the primary factor regulating grain size. To identify transcriptional signatures associated with spike development, we use a six-rowed barley cultivar (Morex) to develop a spatiotemporal transcriptome atlas containing 255 samples covering 17 stages and 5 positions along the spike. We identify several fundamental regulatory networks, in addition to key regulators of spike development and morphology. Specifically, we show HvGELP96, encoding a GDSL domain-containing protein, as a regulator of spikelet fertility and grain number. Our transcriptional atlas offers a powerful resource to answer fundamental questions in spikelet development and degeneration in barley.
Genotype-limited plant regeneration is one of the main obstacles to the broader use of genetic transformation in barley breeding. Thus, developing new approaches that might improve responses of in vitro recalcitrant genotypes remains at the center of barley biotechnology. Here, we analyzed different barley genotypes, including "Golden Promise," a genotype commonly used in the genetic transformation, and four malting barley cultivars of poor regenerative potential. The expression of hormone-related transcription factor (TF) genes with documented roles in plant regeneration was analyzed in genotypes with various plant-regenerating capacities. The results indicated differential expression of auxin-related TF genes between the barley genotypes in both the explants and the derived cultures. In support of the role of auxin in barley regeneration, distinct differences in the accumulation of free and oxidized auxin were observed in explants and explant-derived callus cultures of barley genotypes. Following the assumption that modifying gene expression might improve plant regeneration in barley, we treated the barley explants with trichostatin A (TSA), which affects histone acetylation. The effects of TSA were genotype-dependent as TSA treatment improved plant regeneration in two barley cultivars. TSA-induced changes in plant regeneration were associated with the increased expression of auxin biosynthesis-involved TFs. The study demonstrated that explant treatment with chromatin modifiers such as TSA might provide a new and effective epigenetic approach to improving plant regeneration in recalcitrant barley genotypes.
Breeding for variation in photoperiod response is crucial to adapt crop plants to various environments. Plants measure changes in day length by the circadian clock, an endogenous timekeeper that allows plants to anticipate changes in diurnal and seasonal light-dark cycles. Here, we describe the early maturity 7 (eam7) locus in barley (Hordeum vulgare), which interacts with PHOTOPERIOD 1 (Ppd-H1) to cause early flowering under non-inductive short days. We identify LIGHT-REGULATED WD 1 (LWD1) as a putative candidate to underlie the eam7 locus in barley as supported by genetic mapping and CRISPR-Cas9-generated lwd1 mutants. Mutations in eam7 cause a significant phase advance and a misregulation of core clock and clock output genes under diurnal conditions. Early flowering was linked to an upregulation of Ppd-H1 during the night and consequent induction of the florigen FLOWERING LOCUS T1 under short days. We propose that EAM7 controls photoperiodic flowering in barley by controlling the light input into the clock and diurnal expression patterns of the major photoperiod response gene Ppd-H1.
One of the challenges for global food security is to reliably and sustainably improve the grain yield of cereal crops. One solution is to modify the architecture of the grain-bearing inflorescence to optimize for grain number and size. Cereal inflorescences are complex structures, with determinacy, branching patterns, and spikelet/floret growth patterns that vary by species. Recent decades have witnessed rapid advancements in our understanding of the genetic regulation of inflorescence architecture in rice, maize, wheat, and barley. Here, we summarize current knowledge on key genetic factors underlying the different inflorescence morphologies of these crops and model plants (Arabidopsis and tomato), focusing particularly on the regulation of inflorescence meristem determinacy and spikelet meristem identity and determinacy. We also discuss strategies to identify and utilize these superior alleles to optimize inflorescence architecture and, ultimately, improve crop grain yield.
The genomes of many major crops including barley (Hordeum vulgare) consist of numerous transposons. Despite their important roles in crop genome evolution and morphological variations, most of these elements are silent or truncated and unable to be mobile in host genomes. Thus far, only a very limited number of active transposons were identified in plants. We analyzed the barley full-length cDNA (FLcDNA) sequences and detected 71 unique FLcDNAs exhibiting significant sequence similarity to the extant transposase proteins. These FLcDNAs were then used to search against the genome of a malting barley cultivar 'Morex', seven new intact transposons were identified. Sequence alignments indicated that six intact transposons contained the entire FLcDNAs whereas another one served as 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) of a barley gene. Our reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) experiment further confirmed the expression of these six transposons and revealed their differential expression. We conducted genome-wide transposon comparisons and detected polymorphisms of three transposon families between the genomes of 'Morex' and other three genotypes including the wild barley (Hordeum spontaneum, B1K-04-12) and two cultivated barley varieties, 'Golden Promise' and 'Lasa Goumang'. Lastly, we screened the transcripts of all annotated barley genes and found that some transposons may serve as the coding regions (CDSs) or UTRs of barley genes. We identified six newly expressed transposons in the barley genome and revealed the recent mobility of three transposon families. Our efforts provide a valuable resource for understanding the effects of transposons on barley genome evolution and for developing novel molecular tools for barley genetic improvement and other research.
Hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum Hook. f.), belonging to the genus Gramineae, has high and steady output and thus considered as a principal food crop by Tibetan people. Hulless barley grain can be used for food, brewing, and functional health product development, while its straw serves as an essential supplementary forage and is a crucial cereal crop. Lodging can reduce the yield and quality of barley grain and straw, and it hinders mechanical harvesting. It is a significant factor affecting high and stable yields of barley. Unlike other Poaceae plants (such as rice, wheat), hulless barley is mainly grown in high-altitude regions, where it is susceptible to low temperatures, strong winds, and heavy rainfall. As a result, its stem lodging resistance is relatively weak, making it prone to lodging during the growth period. In this study, we observed that the lignin concentration and the contents of lignin monomers (H, S, and G), and neutral detergent fibre of the lodging-resistant variety Kunlun14 were substantially greater than those of the lodging-sensitive variety Menyuanlianglan. We performed the weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and Short Time-series Expression Miner (STEM) analysis of both the lodging-resistant and lodging-sensitive varieties. Through transcriptome sequencing analysis at different developmental stages, combined with the previously annotated genes related to lodging resistance, a total of 72 DEGs were identified. Among these DEGs, 17 genes were related to lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose synthesis or regulation, including five transcription factors about NAC, MYB and WRKY. Our results provide a basis for further exploring the molecular mechanism of stem lodging resistance in hulless barley and provide valuable gene resources for stem lodging resistance molecular breeding.
Homogentisate phytyltransferase (HPT) is the critical enzyme for the biosynthesis of tocopherols (vitamin E), which are the major lipid-soluble antioxidants and help plants adapt to various stress conditions. HPT is generally strictly conserved in various plant genomes; however, a divergent lineage HPT2 was identified recently in some Triticeae species. The molecular function and transcriptional profiles of HPT2 remain to be characterized. In this study, we performed comprehensive transcriptome data mining of HPT1 and HPT2 in different tissues and stages of barley (Hordeum vulgare), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and oat (Avena sativa), followed by qRT-PCR experiments on HPT1 and HPT2 in different tissues of barley and wheat. We found that the common HPT1 genes (HvHPT1, TaHPT1s, and AsHPT1s) displayed a conserved transcriptional pattern in the three target species and were universally transcribed in various tissues, with a notable preference in leaf. In contrast, HPT2 genes (HvHPT2, TaHPT2, and AsHPT2) were specifically transcribed in spike (developmentally up-regulated) and shoot apex tissues, displaying a divergent tissue-specific pattern. Cis-regulatory elements prediction in the promoter region identified common factors related to light-, plant hormone-, low temperature-, drought- and defense- responses in both HPT1s and HPT2s. We observed the transcriptional up-regulation of HvHPT1 and HvHPT2 under various stress conditions, supporting their conserved function in environmental adaption. We detected a clear, relaxed selection pressure in the HPT2 lineage, consistent with the predicted evolution pattern following gene duplication. Protein structural modelling and substrate docking analyses identified putative catalytic amino acid residues for HvHPT1 and HvHPT2, which are strictly conserved and consistent with their function in vitamin E biosynthesis. We confirmed the presence of two lineages of HPT in Triticeae and Aveninae, including hexaploid oat, and characterized their transcriptional profiles based on transcriptome and qRT-PCR data. HPT1s were ubiquitously transcribed in various tissues, whilst HPT2s were highly expressed in specific stages and tissue. The active transcription of HPT2s, together with its conserved cis-elements and protein structural features, support HPT2s' role in tocopherol production in Triticeae. This study is the first protein structural analysis on the membrane-bound plant HPTs and provides valuable insights into its catalytic mechanism.
Artificial light at night (ALAN) threatens natural ecosystems globally. While ALAN research is increasing, little is known about how ALAN affects plants and interactions with other organisms. We explored the effects of ALAN on plant defence and plant-insect interactions using barley (
MicroRNAs are small, noncoding RNA molecules that regulate the expression of their target genes. The MIR444 gene family is present exclusively in monocotyledons, and microRNAs444 from this family have been shown to target certain MADS-box transcription factors in rice and barley. We identified three barley MIR444 (MIR444a/b/c) genes and comprehensively characterised their structure and the processing pattern of the primary transcripts (pri-miRNAs444). Pri-microRNAs444 undergo extensive alternative splicing, generating functional and nonfunctional pri-miRNA444 isoforms. We show that barley pri-miRNAs444 contain numerous open reading frames (ORFs) whose transcripts associate with ribosomes. Using specific antibodies, we provide evidence that selected ORFs encoding PEP444a within MIR444a and PEP444c within MIR444c are expressed in barley plants. Moreover, we demonstrate that CRISPR-associated endonuclease 9 (Cas9)-mediated mutagenesis of the PEP444c-encoding sequence results in a decreased level of PEP444 transcript in barley shoots and roots and a 5-fold reduced level of mature microRNA444c in roots. Our observations suggest that PEP444c encoded by the MIR444c gene is involved in microRNA444c biogenesis in barley.
Environmental stresses severely affect plant growth and crop productivity. Regulated by 14-3-3 proteins (14-3-3s), H+-ATPases (AHAs) are important proton pumps that can induce diverse secondary transport via channels and co-transporters for the abiotic stress response of plants. Many studies demonstrated the roles of 14-3-3s and AHAs in coordinating the processes of plant growth, phytohormone signaling, and stress responses. However, the molecular evolution of 14-3-3s and AHAs has not been summarized in parallel with evolutionary insights across multiple plant species. Here, we comprehensively review the roles of 14-3-3s and AHAs in cell signaling to enhance plant responses to diverse environmental stresses. We analyzed the molecular evolution of key proteins and functional domains that are associated with 14-3-3s and AHAs in plant growth and hormone signaling. The results revealed evolution, duplication, contraction, and expansion of 14-3-3s and AHAs in green plants. We also discussed the stress-specific expression of those 14-3-3and AHA genes in a eudicotyledon (Arabidopsis thaliana), a monocotyledon (Hordeum vulgare), and a moss (Physcomitrium patens) under abiotic stresses. We propose that 14-3-3s and AHAs respond to abiotic stresses through many important targets and signaling components of phytohormones, which could be promising to improve plant tolerance to single or multiple environmental stresses.
Canopy architecture in cereals plays an important role in determining yield. Leaf width represents one key aspect of this canopy architecture. However, our understanding of leaf width control in cereals remains incomplete. Classical mutagenesis studies in barely identified multiple morphological mutants, including those with differing leaf widths. Of these, we characterized the broad leaf13 (blf13) mutant in detail. Mutant plants form wider leaves due to increased post-initiation growth and cell proliferation. The mutant phenotype perfectly co-segregated with a missense mutation in the HvHNT1 gene which affected a highly conserved region of the encoded protein, orthologous to the rice NARROW LEAF1 (NAL1) protein. Causality of this mutation for the blf13 phenotype is further supported by correlative transcriptomic analyses and protein-protein interaction studies showing that the mutant HvNHT1 protein interacts more strongly with a known interactor than wild-type HvHNT1. The mutant HvHNT1 protein also showed stronger homodimerization compared with wild-type HvHNT1, and homology modelling suggested an additional interaction site between HvHNT1 monomers due to the blf13 mutation. Thus, the blf13 mutation parallels known gain-of-function NAL1 alleles in rice that increase leaf width and grain yield, suggesting that the blf13 mutation may have a similar agronomic potential in barley.
Light quality influence on barley development is poorly understood. We exposed three barley genotypes with either sensitive or insensitive response to two light sources producing different light spectra, fluorescent bulbs, and metal halide lamps, keeping constant light intensity, duration, and temperature. Through RNA-seq, we identified the main genes and pathways involved in the genotypic responses. A first analysis identified genotypic differences in gene expression of development-related genes, including photoreceptors and flowering time genes. Genes from the vernalization pathway of light quality-sensitive genotypes were affected by fluorescent light. In particular, vernalization-related repressors reacted differently: HvVRN2 did not experience relevant changes, whereas HvOS2 expression increased under fluorescent light. To identify the genes primarily related to light quality responses, and avoid the confounding effect of plant developmental stage, genes influenced by development were masked in a second analysis. Quantitative expression levels of PPD-H1, which influenced HvVRN1 and HvFT1, explained genotypic differences in development. Upstream mechanisms (light signaling and circadian clock) were also altered, but no specific genes linking photoreceptors and the photoperiod pathway were identified. The variety of light-quality sensitivities reveals the presence of possible mechanisms of adaptation of winter and facultative barley to latitudinal variation in light quality, which deserves further research.
In nature, beneficial bacteria triggering induced systemic resistance (ISR) may protect plants from potential diseases, reducing yield losses caused by diverse pathogens. However, little is known about how the host plant initially responds to different beneficial bacteria. To reveal the impact of different bacteria on barley (Hordeum vulgare), bacterial colonization patterns, gene expression, and composition of seed endophytes were explored. This study used the soil-borne Ensifer meliloti, as well as Pantoea sp. and Pseudomonas sp. isolated from barley seeds, individually. The results demonstrated that those bacteria persisted in the rhizosphere but with different colonization patterns. Although root-leaf translocation was not observed, all three bacteria induced systemic resistance (ISR) against foliar fungal pathogens. Transcriptome analysis revealed that ion- and stress-related genes were regulated in plants that first encountered bacteria. Iron homeostasis and heat stress responses were involved in the response to E. meliloti and Pantoea sp., even if the iron content was not altered. Heat shock protein-encoding genes responded to inoculation with Pantoea sp. and Pseudomonas sp. Furthermore, bacterial inoculation affected the composition of seed endophytes. Investigation of the following generation indicated that the enhanced resistance was not heritable. Here, using barley as a model, we highlighted different responses to three different beneficial bacteria as well as the influence of soil-borne Ensifer meliloti on the seed microbiome. In total, these results can help to understand the interaction between ISR-triggering bacteria and a crop plant, which is essential for the application of biological agents in sustainable agriculture.
Highland barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum) is a grain crop that grows on the plateau under poor and high salt conditions. Therefore, to cultivate high-quality highland barley varieties, it is necessary to study the molecular mechanism of strong resistance in highland barley, which has not been clearly explained. In this study, a high concentration of NaCl (240 mmol/L), simulating the unfavorable environment, was used to spray the treated highland barley seeds. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the expression of more than 8,000 genes in highland barley seed cells was significantly altered, suggesting that the metabolic landscape of the cells was deeply changed under salt stress. Through the KEGG analysis, the phenylpropane metabolic pathway was significantly up-regulated under salt stress, resulting in the accumulation of polyphenols, flavonoids, and lignin, the metabolites for improving the stress resistance of highland barley seed cells, being increased 2.71, 1.22, and 1.17 times, respectively. This study discovered that the phenylpropane metabolic pathway was a significant step forward in understanding the stress resistance of highland barley, and provided new insights into the roles of molecular mechanisms in plant defense.
Plant hormones play important roles in seed development; however, transcriptional regulation of their metabolism and levels of the respective bioactive forms during barley seed development is poorly understood. To this end, this study performed a comprehensive analysis of changes in the expression patterns phytohormone metabolism genes and levels of the respective bioactive forms in the embryo and endosperm tissues. Our study showed the presence of elevated levels of abscisic acid (ABA), bioactive forms of gibberellins (GAs), jasmonate (JA) and cytokinins (CKs), auxin and salicylic acid (SA) in the endosperm and embryo tissues at early stage of seed filling (SF). The levels of all hormones in both tissues, except that of ABA, decreased to low levels during SF. In contrast, embryonic ABA level increased during SF and peaked at physiological maturity (PM) while the endospermic ABA was maintained at a similar level observed during SF. Although its level decreased high amount of ABA was still present in the embryo during post-PM. We detected low levels of ABA in the endosperm and all the other hormones in both tissues during post-PM phase except the relatively higher levels of jasmonoyl-isoleucine and SA detected at late stage of post-PM. Our data also showed that spatiotemporal changes in the levels of plant hormones during barley seed development are mediated by the expression of specific genes involved in their respective metabolic pathways. These results indicate that seed development in barley is mediated by spatiotemporal modulation in the metabolism and levels of plant hormones.
Heat shock factor (HSF), a typical class of transcription factors in plants, has played an essential role in plant growth and developmental stages, signal transduction, and response to biotic and abiotic stresses. The HSF genes families has been identified and characterized in many species through leveraging whole genome sequencing (WGS). However, the identification and systematic analysis of HSF family genes in Rye is limited. In this study, 31 HSF genes were identified in Rye, which were unevenly distributed on seven chromosomes. Based on the homology of A. thaliana, we analyzed the number of conserved domains and gene structures of ScHSF genes that were classified into seven subfamilies. To better understand the developmental mechanisms of ScHSF family during evolution, we selected one monocotyledon (Arabidopsis thaliana) and five (Triticum aestivum L., Hordeum vulgare L., Oryza sativa L., Zea mays L., and Aegilops tauschii Coss.) specific representative dicotyledons associated with Rye for comparative homology mapping. The results showed that fragment replication events modulated the expansion of the ScHSF genes family. In addition, interactions between ScHSF proteins and promoters containing hormone- and stress-responsive cis-acting elements suggest that the regulation of ScHSF expression was complex. A total of 15 representative genes were targeted from seven subfamilies to characterize their gene expression responses in different tissues, fruit developmental stages, three hormones, and six different abiotic stresses. This study demonstrated that ScHSF genes, especially ScHSF1 and ScHSF3, played a key role in Rye development and its response to various hormones and abiotic stresses. These results provided new insights into the evolution of HSF genes in Rye, which could help the success of molecular breeding in Rye.
Bioactive polysaccharides known as the biological response modifiers, can directly interact with intestinal epithelium cells (IEC) and regulate key metabolic processes such as lipid metabolism. Here, the coculture of Caco-2/HT29 monolayer (>400 Ω × cm
Yellow pigment content, mainly due to the accumulation of carotenoids, is a quality trait in durum wheat grain as it confers the bright yellow color to pasta preferred by consumers. Also, carotenoids are essential nutrients exerting important biological functions in human health. Consequently, biofortification strategies have been developed in many crops to increase carotenoid content. In this context, carotenoid esterification is emerging as a new breeding target for wheat biofortification, as carotenoid esters have been found to promote both carotenoid accumulation and stability. Until recently, no carotenoid esters have been identified in significant proportions in durum wheat grains, and interspecific breeding programs have been started to transfer esterification ability from common wheat and Hordeum chilense.In this work, XAT-7A1 is identified as the gene responsible for carotenoid esterification in durum wheat. Sequencing, copy number variation and mapping results show that XAT-7A1 is organized as tandem or proximal GDSL esterase/lipase copies in chromosome 7A. Three XAT-7A1 haplotypes are described: Type 1 copies, associated with high levels of carotenoid esters (diesters and monoesters) production and high expression in grain development; Type 2 copies, present in landraces with low levels of carotenoid esters (monoesters) or no esters; and Type 3 copies, without the signal peptide, resulting in zero-ester phenotypes.The identification of XAT-7A1 is a necessary step to make the carotenoid esterification ability available for durum and bread wheat breeding, which should be focused on the Type 1 XAT-7A1 haplotype, which may be assessed as a single gene since XAT-7A1 copies are inherited together.
Leaf rust, caused by Puccinia hordei, is one of the most widespread and damaging foliar diseases affecting barley. The barley leaf rust resistance locus Rph7 has been shown to have unusually high sequence and haplotype divergence. In this study, we isolate the Rph7 gene using a fine mapping and RNA-Seq approach that is confirmed by mutational analysis and transgenic complementation. Rph7 is a pathogen-induced, non-canonical resistance gene encoding a protein that is distinct from other known plant disease resistance proteins in the Triticeae. Structural analysis using an AlphaFold2 protein model suggests that Rph7 encodes a putative NAC transcription factor with a zinc-finger BED domain with structural similarity to the N-terminal DNA-binding domain of the NAC transcription factor (ANAC019) from Arabidopsis. A global gene expression analysis suggests Rph7 mediates the activation and strength of the basal defence response. The isolation of Rph7 highlights the diversification of resistance mechanisms available for engineering disease control in crops.
Plants often face simultaneous abiotic and biotic stress conditions; however, physiological and transcriptional responses under such combined stress conditions are still not fully understood. Spring barley (Hordeum vulgare) is susceptible to Fusarium head blight (FHB), which is strongly affected by weather conditions. We therefore studied the potential influence of drought on FHB severity and plant responses in three varieties of different susceptibility. We found strongly reduced FHB severity in susceptible varieties under drought. The number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and strength of transcriptomic regulation reflected the concentrations of physiological stress markers such as abscisic acid or fungal DNA contents. Infection-related gene expression was associated with susceptibility rather than resistance. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis revealed 18 modules of co-expressed genes that reflected the pathogen- or drought-response in the three varieties. A generally infection-related module contained co-expressed genes for defence, programmed cell death, and mycotoxin detoxification, indicating that the diverse genotypes used a similar defence strategy towards FHB, albeit with different degrees of success. Further, DEGs showed co-expression in drought- or genotype-associated modules that correlated with measured phytohormones or the osmolyte proline. The combination of drought stress with infection led to the highest numbers of DEGs and resulted in a modular composition of the single-stress responses rather than a specific transcriptional output.
Genome-wide association study of diverse barley genotypes identified loci, single nucleotide polymorphisms and candidate genes that control seed dormancy and therefore enhance resistance to preharvest sprouting. Preharvest sprouting (PHS) causes significant yield and quality loss in barley and it is strongly associated with the level of seed dormancy. This study performed genome-wide association study using a collection of 255 diverse barley genotypes grown over four environments to identify loci controlling dormancy/PHS. Our phenotypic analysis revealed substantial variation in germination index/dormancy levels among the barley genotypes. Marker-trait association and linkage disequilibrium (LD) decay analyses identified 16 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and two QTLs associated with dormancy/PHS, respectively, on chromosome 3H and 5H explaining 6.9% to 11.1% of the phenotypic variation. QTL.5H consist of 14 SNPs of which 12 SNPs satisfy the FDR threshold of α = 0.05, and it may represent the SD2 locus. The QTL on 3H consists of one SNP that doesn't satisfy FDR (α = 0.05). Genes harbouring the significant SNPs were analyzed for their expression pattern in the seeds of selected dormant and non-dormant genotypes. Of these genes, HvRCD1, HvPSRP1 and HvF3H exhibited differential expression between the dormant and non-dormant seed samples, suggesting their role in controlling seed dormancy/PHS. Three SNPs located within the differentially expressed genes residing in QTL.5H explained considerable phenotypic variation (≥ 8.6%), suggesting their importance in regulating PHS resistance. Analysis of the SNP marker data in QTL.5H identified a haplotype for PHS resistance. Overall, the study identified loci, SNPs and candidate genes that control dormancy and therefore play important roles in enhancing PHS resistance in barley through marker-assisted breeding.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is an important cereal crop, and its development, defence, and stress responses are modulated by different hormones including jasmonates (JAs) and the antagonistic gibberellins (GAs). Barley productivity is severely affected by the foliar biotrophic fungal pathogen Blumeria hordei. In this study, primary leaves were used to examine the molecular processes regulating responses to methyl-jasmonate (MeJA) and GA to B. hordei infection along the leaf axis. Flow cytometry, microscopy, and spatiotemporal expression patterns of genes associated with JA, GA, defence, and the cell cycle provided insights on cell cycle progression and on the gradient of susceptibility to B. hordei observed along the leaf. Notably, the combination of B. hordei with MeJA or GA pre-treatment had a different effect on the expression patterns of the analysed genes compared to individual treatments. MeJA reduced susceptibility to B. hordei in the proximal part of the leaf blade. Overall, distinctive spatiotemporal gene expression patterns correlated with different degrees of cell proliferation, growth capacity, responses to hormones, and B. hordei infection along the leaf. Our results highlight the need to further investigate differential spatial and temporal responses to pathogens at the organ, tissue, and cell levels in order to devise effective disease control strategies in crops.
We present an easy-to-reproduce manual miniaturized full-length RNA sequencing (RNAseq) library preparation workflow that does not require the upfront investment in expensive lab equipment or long setup times. With minimal adjustments to an established commercial protocol, we were able to manually miniaturize the RNAseq library preparation by a factor of up to 1:8. This led to cost savings for miniaturized library preparation of up to 86.1% compared to the gold standard. The resulting data were the basis of a rigorous quality control analysis that inspected: sequencing quality metrics, gene body coverage, raw read duplications, alignment statistics, read pair duplications, detected transcripts and sequence variants. We also included a deep dive data analysis identifying rRNA contamination and suggested ways to circumvent these. In the end, we could not find any indication of biases or inaccuracies caused by the RNAseq library miniaturization. The variance in detected transcripts was minimal and not influenced by the miniaturization level. Our results suggest that the workflow is highly reproducible and the sequence data suitable for downstream analyses such as differential gene expression analysis or variant calling.
Grain shape and plumpness affect barley yield. Despite numerous studies on shrunken endosperm mutants in barley, their molecular mechanism and application potential in the food industry are largely unknown. Here, map-based cloning, co-segregation analyses, and allelic variant validation revealed that the loss of HORVU6Hr1G037950 encoding an ADP-glucose transporter caused the shrunken endosperm in sex1. Haplotype analysis suggested that hap4 in the promoter sequence was positively related to the hundred-grain weight showing a breeding potential. A pair of near-isogenic lines targeting HORVU6Hr1G037950 was produced and characterized to investigate molecular mechanisms that SEX1 regulates endosperm development. Results presented that the absence of the SEX1 gene led to the decrease of starch content and A-type granules size, the increase of β-glucan, protein, gelatinization temperature, soluble sugar content, amylopectin A chains, and B1 chains. Enzymatic activity, transcriptome and metabolome analyses revealed the loss of SEX1 results in an impaired ADP-glucose-to-starch conversion process, consequently leading to higher soluble sugar contents and lower starch accumulation, thereby inducing a shrunken-endosperm phenotype in sex1. Taken together, this study provides new insights into barley grain development, and the elevated protein and β-glucan contents of the whole meal in sex1 imply its promising application in the food industry.
Plants respond to drought by the major reprogramming of gene expression, enabling the plant to survive this threatening environmental condition. The phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) serves as a crucial upstream signal, inducing this multifaceted process. This report investigated the drought response in barley plants (
The anther tapetum helps control microspore release and essential components for pollen wall formation. TAPETAL DEVELOPMENT and FUNCTION1 (TDF1) is an essential R2R3 MYB tapetum transcription factor in Arabidopsis thaliana; however, little is known about pollen development in the temperate monocot barley. Here, we characterize the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) TDF1 ortholog using reverse genetics and transcriptomics. Spatial/temporal expression analysis indicates HvTDF1 has tapetum-specific expression during anther stage 7/8. Homozygous barley hvtdf1 mutants exhibit male sterility with retarded tapetum development, delayed tapetum endomitosis and cell wall degeneration, resulting in enlarged, vacuolated tapetum surrounding collapsing microspores. Transient protein expression and dual-luciferase assays show TDF1 is a nuclear-localized, transcription activator, that directly activates osmotin proteins. Comparison of hvtdf1 transcriptome data revealed several pathways were delayed, endorsing the observed retarded anther morphology. Arabidopsis tdf1 mutant fertility was recovered by HvTDF1, supporting a conserved role for TDF1 in monocots and dicots. This indicates that tapetum development shares similarity between monocot and dicots; however, barley HvTDF1 appears to uniquely act as a modifier to activate tapetum gene expression pathways, which are subsequently also induced by other factors. Therefore, the absence of HvTDF1 results in delayed developmental progression rather than pathway failure, although inevitably still results in pollen degeneration.
Floral morphology varies considerably between dicots and monocots. The ABCDE model explaining how floral organ development is controlled was formulated using core eudicots and applied to grass crops. Barley (Hordeum. vulgare) has unique floral morphogenesis. Wild barley (H. vulgare ssp. spontaneum), which is the immediate ancestor of cultivated barley (H. vulgare ssp. vulgare), contains a rich reservoir of genetic diversity. However, the wild barley genes involved in floral organ development are still relatively uncharacterized. In this study, we generated an organ-specific transcriptome atlas for wild barley floral organs. Genome-wide transcription profiles indicated that 22 838 protein-coding genes were expressed in at least one organ. These genes were grouped into seven clusters according to the similarities in their expression patterns. Moreover, 5619 genes exhibited organ-enriched expression, 677 of which were members of 47 transcription factor families. Gene ontology analyses suggested that the functions of the genes with organ-enriched expression influence the biological processes in floral organs. The co-expression regulatory network showed that the expression of 690 genes targeted by MADS-box proteins was highly positively correlated with the expression of ABCDE model genes during floral morphogenesis. Furthermore, the expression of 138 genes was specific to the wild barley OUH602 genome and not the Morex genome; most of these genes were highly expressed in the glume, awn, lemma, and palea. This study revealed the global gene expression patterns underlying floral morphogenesis in wild barley. On the basis of the study findings, a molecular mechanism controlling floral morphology in barley was proposed.
Abscisic acid (ABA) plays a vital role in the induction of low temperature tolerance in plants. To understand the molecular basis of this phenomenon, we performed a proteomic analysis on an ABA-deficit mutant barley (
Highland barley (HB) is an important cereal crop distributed in the plateau region. Bioactive peptides (BAPs) derived from cereal proteins have shown biological functions. However, the knowledge of highland barley peptide (HBP) is limited. This study aims to explore the immunomodulatory activity of HBP and the relationship between immunomodulatory activity and related gene expression through RNA-seq. Firstly, HBP is isolated from protease hydrolysates of HB protein, yielding 12.04% of crude HB protein. The molecular weight of HBP is about 1702 Da analyzed by gel filtration chromatography, and HBP has a specific amino acid sequence as Gln-Pro-Gln-Gln-Pro-Phe-Pro-Gln (QPQPFPQ) analyzed by LC-MS. Besides, HBP contains 42.20% hydrophobic amino acids and 10.86% basic amino acids. Next, the immunomodulatory activity of HBP in vitro shows that HBP enhances the phagocytosis of RAW264.7 macrophages, promotes nitric oxide (NO) production and the mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory genes including tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), interleukin 1β (IL-1β), and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and decreases the mRNA expression of anti-inflammatory gene, transforming growth factor β1 (TGF-β1). RNA-seq analysis reveals TNF and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) pathways are upregulated, and RT-qPCR is performed to verify RNA-seq analysis. In conclusion, HBP activates RAW264.7 macrophages via TNF/NF-κB signaling pathway. HBP, as a significant immunomodulatory peptide, might be a promising resource for future functional foods.
Multiple nodes and dwarf mutants in barley are a valuable resource for identifying genes that control shoot branching, vegetative growth and development. In this study, physiological, microscopic and genetic analysis were conducted to characterize and fine-map the underling gene of a barley mutant with Multiple Stem Nodes and Spikes and Dwarf ( The
For safe and effective nutrient management, the cutting-edge approaches to plant fertilization are continuously developed. The aim of the study was to analyze the transcriptional response of barley suffering from Cu deficiency to foliar application of nanoparticulate Cu (nano-Cu) and its ionic form (CuSO
Many plants have the capability to accumulate anthocyanins for coloration, and anthocyanins are advantageous to human health. In the case of hulless barley (
During drought, plants close their stomata at a critical soil water content (SWC), together with making diverse physiological, developmental, and biochemical responses. Using precision-phenotyping lysimeters, we imposed pre-flowering drought on four barley varieties (Arvo, Golden Promise, Hankkija 673, and Morex) and followed their physiological responses. For Golden Promise, we carried out RNA-seq on leaf transcripts before and during drought and during recovery, also examining retrotransposon The varieties differed by their critical SWC (ϴ The differential response to SWC suggests adaptation to distinct rainfall patterns. We identified several strongly differentially expressed genes not earlier associated with drought response in barley.
Plant immunological memory, priming, is a defense mechanism that can be triggered by external stimuli, leading to the activation of biochemical pathways and preparing plants for disease resistance. Plant conditioners improve yield and crop quality through nutrient efficiency and abiotic stress tolerance, which is enhanced by the addition of resistance- and priming-induced compounds. Based on this hypothesis, this study aimed to investigate plant responses to priming actives of different natures, including salicylic acid and beta-aminobutyric acid, in combination with the plant conditioning agent ELICE Vakcina
Depending on their habitat conditions, plants can greatly change the growth rate of their roots. However, the mechanisms of such responses remain insufficiently clear. The influence of a low level of illumination on the content of endogenous auxins, their localization in leaves and transport from shoots to roots were studied and related to the lateral root branching of barley plants. Following two days' reduction in illumination, a 10-fold reduction in the emergence of lateral roots was found. Auxin (IAA, indole-3-acetic acid) content decreased by 84% in roots and by 30% in shoots, and immunolocalization revealed lowered IAA levels in phloem cells of leaf sections. The reduced content of IAA found in the plants under low light suggests an inhibition of production of this hormone under these conditions. At the same time, two-fold downregulation of the
Seeds are a vital source of calories for humans and a unique stage in the life cycle of flowering plants. During seed germination, the embryo undergoes major developmental transitions to become a seedling. Studying gene expression in individual seed cell types has been challenging due to the lack of spatial information or low throughput of existing methods. To overcome these limitations, a spatial transcriptomics workflow was developed for germinating barley grain. This approach enabled high-throughput analysis of spatial gene expression, revealing specific spatial expression patterns of various functional gene categories at a sub-tissue level. This study revealed over 14 000 genes differentially regulated during the first 24 h after imbibition. Individual genes, such as the aquaporin gene family, starch degradation, cell wall modification, transport processes, ribosomal proteins and transcription factors, were found to have specific spatial expression patterns over time. Using spatial autocorrelation algorithms, we identified auxin transport genes that had increasingly focused expression within subdomains of the embryo over time, suggesting their role in establishing the embryo axis. Overall, our study provides an unprecedented spatially resolved cellular map for barley germination and identifies specific functional genomics targets to better understand cellular restricted processes during germination. The data can be viewed at https://spatial.latrobe.edu.au/.
The cuticle is a protective layer covering aerial plant organs. We studied the function of waxes for the establishment of the cuticular barrier in barley (Hordeum vulgare). The barley eceriferum mutants cer-za.227 and cer-ye.267 display reduced wax loads, but the genes affected, and the consequences of the wax changes for the barrier function remained unknown. Cuticular waxes and permeabilities were measured in cer-za.227 and cer-ye.267. The mutant loci were isolated by bulked segregant RNA sequencing. New cer-za alleles were generated by genome editing. The CER-ZA protein was characterized after expression in yeast and Arabidopsis cer4-3. Cer-za.227 carries a mutation in HORVU5Hr1G089230 encoding acyl-CoA reductase (FAR1). The cer-ye.267 mutation is located to HORVU4Hr1G063420 encoding β-ketoacyl-CoA synthase (KAS1) and is allelic to cer-zh.54. The amounts of intracuticular waxes were strongly decreased in cer-ye.267. The cuticular water loss and permeability of cer-za.227 were similar to wild-type (WT), but were increased in cer-ye.267. Removal of epicuticular waxes revealed that intracuticular, but not epicuticular waxes are required to regulate cuticular transpiration. The differential decrease in intracuticular waxes between cer-za.227 and cer-ye.267, and the removal of epicuticular waxes indicate that the cuticular barrier function mostly depends on the presence of intracuticular waxes.
Low-temperature stress (LTS) is among the major abiotic stresses affecting the geographical distribution and productivity of the most important crops. Understanding the genetic basis of photosynthetic variation under cold stress is necessary for developing more climate-resilient barley cultivars. To that end, we investigated the ability of chlorophyll fluorescence parameters (F
In the current industrial scenario, chromium (Cr) as a metal is of great importance but poses a major threat to the ecosystem because of its toxicity, but fewer studies have been conducted on its effects and alleviation strategies by using nanoparticles (NPs) and plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR). Taking into consideration the positive effects of silver⎯nanoparticles (Ag⎯NPs) and (HAS31) rhizobacteria in reducing Cr toxicity in plants, the present study was conducted. A pot experiment was conducted to determine the effects of single and/or combined application of different levels [0 (no Ag⎯NPS), 15 and 30 mM] of Ag⎯NPs and HAS31 [0 (no HAS31), 50 g and 100 g] on Cr accumulation, morpho-physiological and antioxidative defense attributes of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) exposed to severe Cr stress [0 (without Cr stress), 50 and 100 μM)]. Results from the present study showed that the increasing levels of Cr in the soil significantly (P < 0.05) decreased plant growth and biomass, photosynthetic pigments, gas exchange attributes, sugars, and nutritional contents from the roots and shoots of the plants. In contrast, increasing levels of Cr in the soil significantly (P < 0.05) increased oxidative stress indicators in term of malondialdehyde, hydrogen peroxide, and electrolyte leakage, and also increased organic acid exudation patter in the roots of H. vulgare. Although, the activities of enzymatic antioxidants and the response of their gene expressions in the roots and shoots of the plants and non-enzymatic such as phenolic, flavonoid, ascorbic acid, and anthocyanin contents were increased by increasing the Cr concentration in the soil. The negative impacts of Cr injury were reduced by the application of PGPR (HAS31) and Ag⎯NPs, which increased plant growth and biomass, improved photosynthetic apparatus, antioxidant enzymes, and mineral uptake, as well as diminished the exudation of organic acids and oxidative stress indicators in roots of H. vulgare by decreasing Cr toxicity. Research findings, therefore, suggest that the application of PGPR (HAS31) and Ag⎯NPs can ameliorate Cr toxicity in H. vulgare, resulting in improved plant growth and composition under metal stress, as depicted by balanced exudation of organic acids.
Drought stress poses a serious threat to crop production worldwide. Genes encoding homocysteine methyltransferase (HMT) have been identified in some plant species in response to abiotic stress, but its molecular mechanism in plant drought tolerance remains unclear. Here, transcriptional profiling, evolutionary bioinformatics, and population genetics were conducted to obtain insight into the involvement of HvHMT2 from Tibetan wild barley (Hordeum vulgare ssp. agriocrithon) in drought tolerance. We then performed genetic transformation coupled with physio-biochemical dissection and comparative multiomics approaches to determine the function of this protein and the underlying mechanism of HvHMT2-mediated drought tolerance. HvHMT2 expression was strongly induced by drought stress in tolerant genotypes in a natural Tibetan wild barley population and contributed to drought tolerance through S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) metabolism. Overexpression of HvHMT2 promoted HMT synthesis and efficiency of the SAM cycle, leading to enhanced drought tolerance in barley through increased endogenous spermine and less oxidative damage and growth inhibition, thus improving water status and final yield. Disruption of HvHMT2 expression led to hypersensitivity under drought treatment. Application of exogenous spermine reduced accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which was increased by exogenous mitoguazone (inhibitor of spermine biosynthesis), consistent with the association of HvHMT2-mediated spermine metabolism and ROS scavenging in drought adaptation. Our findings reveal the positive role and key molecular mechanism of HvHMT2 in drought tolerance in plants, providing a valuable gene not only for breeding drought-tolerant barley cultivars but also for facilitating breeding schemes in other crops in a changing global climate.
Improvement of low nitrogen (LN) tolerance or nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) in crops is imperative for environment-friendly agriculture development. The basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors are involved in multiple abiotic stresses and are suitable as candidate genes for improving LN tolerance. Few studies were performed on the characterization of the
Black barley seeds are a health-beneficial diet resource because of their special chemical composition and antioxidant properties. The black lemma and pericarp (BLP) locus was mapped in a genetic interval of 0.807 Mb on chromosome 1H, but its genetic basis remains unknown. In this study, targeted metabolomics and conjunctive analyses of BSA-seq and BSR-seq were used to identify candidate genes of BLP and the precursors of black pigments. The results revealed that five candidate genes, purple acid phosphatase, 3-ketoacyl-CoA synthase 11, coiled-coil domain-containing protein 167, subtilisin-like protease, and caffeic acid-
Leaf and floral tissue degeneration is a common feature in plants. In cereal crops such as barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), pre-anthesis tip degeneration (PTD) starts with growth arrest of the inflorescence meristem dome, which is followed basipetally by the degeneration of floral primordia and the central axis. Due to its quantitative nature and environmental sensitivity, inflorescence PTD constitutes a complex, multilayered trait affecting final grain number. This trait appears to be highly predictable and heritable under standardized growth conditions, consistent with a developmentally programmed mechanism. To elucidate the molecular underpinnings of inflorescence PTD, we combined metabolomic, transcriptomic, and genetic approaches to show that barley inflorescence PTD is accompanied by sugar depletion, amino acid degradation, and abscisic acid responses involving transcriptional regulators of senescence, defense, and light signaling. Based on transcriptome analyses, we identified GRASSY TILLERS1 (HvGT1), encoding an HD-ZIP transcription factor, as an important modulator of inflorescence PTD. A gene-edited knockout mutant of HvGT1 delayed PTD and increased differentiated apical spikelets and final spikelet number, suggesting a possible strategy to increase grain number in cereals. We propose a molecular framework that leads to barley PTD, the manipulation of which may increase yield potential in barley and other related cereals.
Correct floral development is the result of a sophisticated balance of molecular cues. Floral mutants provide insight into the main genetic determinants that integrate these cues, as well as providing opportunities to assess functional variation across species. In this study, we characterize the barley (Hordeum vulgare) multiovary mutants mov2.g and mov1, and propose causative gene sequences: a C2H2 zinc-finger gene HvSL1 and a B-class gene HvMADS16, respectively. In the absence of HvSL1, florets lack stamens but exhibit functional supernumerary carpels, resulting in multiple grains per floret. Deletion of HvMADS16 in mov1 causes homeotic conversion of lodicules and stamens into bract-like organs and carpels that contain non-functional ovules. Based on developmental, genetic, and molecular data, we propose a model by which stamen specification in barley is defined by HvSL1 acting upstream of HvMADS16. The present work identifies strong conservation of stamen formation pathways with other cereals, but also reveals intriguing species-specific differences. The findings lay the foundation for a better understanding of floral architecture in Triticeae, a key target for crop improvement.
Gene expression at the RBgh2 locus indicates involvement in cAMP/G-protein-coupled signalling and innate immunity in barley powdery mildew adult plant resistance. Barley powdery mildew is a globally significant disease, responsible for reduced grain yield and quality. A major effect adult plant resistance gene, RBgh2, was previously found in a landrace from Azerbaijan. The atypical phenotype suggested different underlying genetic factors compared to conventional resistance genes and to investigate this, genome-wide gene expression was compared between sets of heterogeneous doubled haploids. RBgh2 resistance is recessive and induces both temporary genome-wide gene expression changes during powdery mildew infection together with constitutive changes, principally at the RBgh2 locus. Defence-related genes significantly induced included homologues of genes associated with innate immunity and pathogen recognition. Intriguingly, RBgh2 resistance does not appear to be dependent on salicylic acid signalling, a key pathway in plant resistance to biotrophs. Constitutive co-expression of resistance gene homologues was evident at the 7HS RBgh2 locus, while no expression was evident for a 6-transmembrane gene, predicted in silico to contain both G-protein- and calmodulin-binding domains. The gene was disrupted at the 5' end, and G-protein-binding activity was suppressed. RBgh2 appears to operate through a unique mechanism that co-opts elements of innate immunity.
Proline-rich extensin-like receptor kinases (PERKs) play a crucial role in a wide range of biological processes in plants. In model plants like Arabidopsis, the PERK gene family has been well investigated. Conversely, no information available on the PERK gene family and their biological functions largely remained unknown in rice. This study analyzed the basic physicochemical properties, phylogeny, gene structure, cis-acting elements, Gene ontology (GO) annotation and protein-protein interaction of OsPERK gene family members using various bioinformatics tools based on the whole-genome data of O. sativa. Thus, in this work, 8 PERK genes in rice were identified, and their roles in plant development, growth, and response to various stresses were studied. A phylogenetic study revealed that OsPERKs are grouped into seven classes. Chromosomal mapping also displayed that 8 PERK genes were unevenly distributed on 12 chromosomes. Further, the prediction of subcellular localization indicated that OsPERKs were mainly located at the endomembrane system. Gene structure analysis of OsPERKs has shown a distinctive evolutionary path. In addition, synteny analysis exhibited the 40 orthologous gene pairs in Arabidopsis thaliana, Triticum aestivum, Hordeum vulgare and Medicago truncatula. Furthermore, Ka to Ks proportion shows that most OsPERK genes experienced resilient purifying selection during evolutionary processes. The OsPERK promoters contained several cis-acting regulatory, which are crucial for plant development processes, phytohormone signaling, stress, and defense response. Moreover, the expression pattern of OsPERK family members showed differential expression patterns in different tissues and various stress conditions. Taken together, these results provide clear messages for a better understanding the roles of OsPERK genes in various development stages, tissues, and multifactorial stress as well as enriched the related research of OsPERK family members in rice.
This study reported validation and fine mapping of a Fusarium crown rot resistant locus on chromosome arm 6HL in barley using near isogenic lines, transcriptome sequences, and a large near isogenic line-derived population. Fusarium crown rot (FCR), caused by Fusarium pseudograminearum, is a chronic and serious disease affecting cereal production in semi-arid regions globally. The increasing prevalence of this disease in recent years is attributed to the widespread adoption of minimum tillage and stubble retention practices. In the study reported here, we generated eight pairs of near isogenic lines (NILs) targeting a putative QTL (Qcrs.caf-6H) conferring FCR resistance in barley. Assessing the NILs confirmed the large effect of this locus. Aimed to develop markers that can be reliably used in incorporating this resistant allele into breeding programs and identify candidate genes, transcriptomic analyses were conducted against three of the NIL pairs and a large NIL-derived population consisting of 1085 F7 recombinant inbred lines generated. By analyzing the transcriptomic data and the fine mapping population, Qcrs.caf-6H was delineated into an interval of 0.9 cM covering a physical distance of ~ 547 kb. Six markers co-segregating with this locus were developed. Based on differential gene expression and SNP variations between the two isolines among the three NIL pairs, candidate genes underlying the resistance at this locus were detected. These results would improve the efficiency of incorporating the targeted locus into barley breeding programs and facilitate the cloning of causal gene(s) responsible for the resistance.
MADS-box transcription factors are crucial members of regulatory networks underlying multiple developmental pathways and abiotic stress regulatory networks in plants. Studies on stress resistance-related functions of MADS-box genes are very limited in barley. To gain insight into this gene family and elucidate their roles in salt and waterlogging stress resistance, we performed genome-wide identification, characterization and expression analysis of MADS-box genes in barley. A whole-genome survey of barley revealed 83 MADS-box genes, which were categorized into type I (Mα, Mβ and Mγ) and type II (AP1, SEP1, AGL12, STK, AGL16, SVP and MIKC*) lineages based on phylogeny, protein motif structure. Twenty conserved motifs were determined and each
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades play important roles in disease resistance in model plant species. However, the functions of MAPK signaling pathways in crop disease resistance are largely unknown. Here we report the function of HvMKK1-HvMPK4-HvWRKY1 module in barley immune system. HvMPK4 is identified to play a negative role in barley immune response against Bgh, as virus-induced gene silencing of HvMPK4 results in enhanced disease resistance whilst stably overexpressing HvMPK4 leads to super-susceptibility to Bgh infection. Furthermore, the barley MAPK kinase HvMKK1 is found to specifically interact with HvMPK4, and the activated HvMKK1
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) represents the fourth most essential cereal crop in the world, vulnerable to barley yellow mosaic virus (BaYMV) and/or barley mild mosaic virus (BaMMV), leading to the significant yield reduction. To gain a better understanding of the mechanisms regarding barley crop tolerance to virus infection, we employed a transcriptome sequencing approach and investigated global gene expression among three barley varieties under both infected and control conditions. High-throughput sequencing outputs revealed massive genetic responses, reflected by the barley transcriptome after BaYMV and/or BaMMV infection. Significant enrichments in peptidase complex and protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum were clustered through Gene ontology and KEGG analysis. Many genes were identified as transcription factors, antioxidants, disease resistance genes and plant hormones and differentially expressed between infected and uninfected barley varieties. Importantly, general response genes, variety-specific and infection-specific genes were also discovered. Our results provide useful information for future barley breeding to resist BaYMV and BaMMV. Our study elucidates transcriptomic adaptations in barley response to BaYMV/BaMMV infection through high-throughput sequencing technique. The analysis outcome from GO and KEGG pathways suggests that BaYMV disease induced regulations in multiple molecular-biology processes and signalling pathways. Moreover, critical DEGs involved in defence and stress tolerance mechanisms were displayed. Further functional investigations focusing on these DEGs contributes to understanding the molecular mechanisms of plant response to BaYMV disease infection, thereby offering precious genetic resources for breeding barley varieties resistant to BaYMV disease.
Heat stress alters plant defence responses to pathogens. Short-term heat shock promotes infections by biotrophic pathogens. However, little is known about how heat shock affects infection by hemibiotrophic pathogens like Bipolaris sorokiniana (teleomorph: Cochliobolus sativus). We assessed the effect of heat shock in B. sorokiniana-susceptible barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Ingrid) by monitoring leaf spot symptoms, B. sorokiniana biomass, ROS and plant defence-related gene expression following pre-exposure to heat shock. For heat shock, barley plants were kept at 49 °C for 20 s. B. sorokiniana biomass was assessed by qPCR, ROS levels determined by histochemical staining, while gene expression was assayed by RT-qPCR. Heat shock suppressed defence responses of barley to B. sorokiniana, resulting in more severe necrotic symptoms and increased fungal biomass, as compared to untreated plants. Heat shock-induced increased susceptibility was accompanied by significant increases in ROS (superoxide, H
Nitrogen is very important for crop yield and quality. Crop producers face the challenge of reducing the use of mineral nitrogen while maintaining food security and other ecosystem services. The first step towards understanding the metabolic responses that could be used to improve nitrogen use efficiency is to identify the genes that are up- or downregulated under treatment with different forms and rates of nitrogen. We conducted a transcriptome analysis of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cv. Anni grown in a field experiment in 2019. The objective was to compare the effects of organic (cattle manure) and mineral nitrogen (NH4NO3; 0, 40, 80 kg N ha The highest number of differentially expressed genes (8071) was found for the treatment with the highest mineral nitrogen rate. This number was 2.6 times higher than that for the group treated with a low nitrogen rate. The lowest number (500) was for the manure treatment group. Upregulated pathways in the mineral fertilizer treatment groups included biosynthesis of amino acids and ribosomal pathways. Downregulated pathways included starch and sucrose metabolism when mineral nitrogen was supplied at lower rates and carotenoid biosynthesis and phosphatidylinositol signaling at higher mineral nitrogen rates. The organic treatment group had the highest number of downregulated genes, with phenylpropanoid biosynthesis being the most significantly enriched pathway for these genes. Genes involved in starch and sucrose metabolism and plant-pathogen interaction pathways were enriched in the organic treatment group compared with the control treatment group receiving no nitrogen input. These findings indicate stronger responses of genes to mineral fertilizers, probably because the slow and gradual decomposition of organic fertilizers means that less nitrogen is provided. These data contribute to our understanding of the genetic regulation of barley growth under field conditions. Identification of pathways affected by different nitrogen rates and forms under field conditions could help in the development of more sustainable cropping practices and guide breeders to create varieties with low nitrogen input requirements.
Barley malt is produced through a malting process; it begins with steeping followed by germination and kilning, in which dramatic changes happen for a large number of physiological and biochemical traits in barley seeds. The objectives of this study were to comprehensively investigate the phenotypic changes during malting, and identify the key regulators that modulate the expression of genes associated with malt quality traits. The results showed that there was a significant positive correlation between gibberellic acid (GA) content and the activities of some hydrolytic enzymes, including α-amylases, β-amylases, and limit dextrinase (LD), and a significant negative correlation between GA and β-glucan content. Starch content had little change, but starch granules were pitted severely during malting. Weighted gene coexpression analysis (WGCNA) identified the genes associated with the greatest changes of the examined malt traits during malting. The correlation analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis detected several key transcriptional factor (TF) regulating genes associated with malt quality. These genes and TFs regulating malting traits are potentially useful in barley breeding for malt quality improvement.
Gene duplication resulting from whole-genome duplication (WGD), small-scale duplication (SSD), or unequal hybridization plays an important role in the expansion of gene families. Gene family expansion can also mediate species formation and adaptive evolution. Barley (
In this study, based on the OneKP database and through comparative genetic analysis, we found that HMT and HDM may originate from Chromista and are highly conserved in green plants, and that during the evolution from algae to land plants, histone methylation modifications gradually became complex and diverse, which is more conducive to the adaptation of plants to complex and variable environments. We also characterized the number of members, genetic similarity, and phylogeny of HMT and HDM families in barley using the barley pangenome and the Tibetan Lasa Goumang genome. The results showed that HMT and HDM were highly conserved in the domestication of barley, but there were some differences in the Lasa Goumang SDG subfamily. Expression analysis showed that
The β-glucans are structurally varied, naturally occurring components of the cell walls, and storage materials of a variety of plant and microbial species. In the human diet, mixed-linkage glucans [MLG - β-(1,3/4)-glucans] influence the gut microbiome and the host immune system. Although consumed daily, the molecular mechanism by which human gut Gram-positive bacteria utilize MLG largely remains unknown. In this study, we used Blautia producta ATCC 27340 as a model organism to develop an understanding of MLG utilization. B. producta encodes a gene locus comprising a multi-modular cell-anchored endo-glucanase (BpGH16
Oxalate oxidase is an enzyme that degrades oxalate and is used in commercial urinary assays to measure oxalate levels. The objective of this study was to establish an enhanced expression system for secretion and purification of oxalate oxidase using Pichia pastoris. A codon optimized synthetic oxalate oxidase gene derived from Hordeum vulgare (barley) was generated and cloned into the pPICZα expression vector downstream of the N-terminal alpha factor secretion signal peptide sequence and used for expression in P. pastoris X-33 strain. A novel chimeric signal peptide consisting of the pre-OST1 sequence fused to pro-αpp8 containing several amino acid substitutions was also generated to enhance secretion. Active enzyme was purified to greater than 90% purity using Q-Sepharose anion exchange chromatography. The purified oxalate oxidase enzyme had an estimated Km value of 256μM, and activity was determined to be 10U/mg. We have developed an enhanced oxalate oxidase expression system and method for purification.
Wind, rain, herbivores, obstacles, neighbouring plants, etc. provide important mechanical cues to steer plant growth and survival. Mechanostimulation to stimulate yield and stress resistance of crops is of significant research interest, yet a molecular understanding of transcriptional responses to touch is largely absent in cereals. To address this, we performed whole-genome transcriptomics following mechanostimulation of wheat, barley, and the recent genome-sequenced oat. The largest transcriptome changes occurred ±25 min after touching, with most of the genes being upregulated. While most genes returned to basal expression level by 1-2 h in oat, many genes retained high expression even 4 h post-treatment in barley and wheat. Functional categories such as transcription factors, kinases, phytohormones, and Ca
Flavonoid compounds like anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins are important plant secondary metabolites having wide biological activities for humans. In this study, the molecular function of the
Biotic stresses are pests and pathogens that cause a variety of crop diseases and damages. In response to these agents, crops trigger specific defense signal transduction pathways in which hormones play a central role. To recognize hormonal signaling, we integrated barley transcriptome datasets related to hormonal treatments and biotic stresses. In the meta-analysis of each dataset, 308 hormonal and 1232 biotic DEGs were identified respectively. According to the results, 24 biotic TFs belonging to 15 conserved families and 6 hormonal TFs belonging to 6 conserved families were identified, with the NF-YC, GNAT, and WHIRLY families being the most prevalent. Additionally, gene enrichment and pathway analyses revealed that over-represented cis-acting elements were recognized in response to pathogens and hormones. Based on the co-expression analysis, 6 biotic and 7 hormonal modules were uncovered. Finally, the hub genes of PKT3, PR1, SSI2, LOX2, OPR3, and AOS were candidates for further study in JA- or SA-mediated plant defense. The qPCR confirmed that the expression of these genes was induced from 3 to 6 h following exposure to 100 μM MeJA, with peak expression occurring between 12 h and 24 h and decreasing after 48 h. Overexpression of PR1 was one of the first steps toward SAR. As well as regulating SAR, NPR1 has also been shown to be involved in the activation of ISR by the SSI2. LOX2 catalyzes the first step of JA biosynthesis, PKT3 plays an important role in wound-activated responses, and OPR3 and AOS are involved in JA biosynthesis. In addition, many unknown genes were introduced that can be used by crop biotechnologists to accelerate barley genetic engineering.
Gibberellic Acid-Stimulated Arabidopsis (GASA) proteins are present in various plants and have a role in plant growth, stress responses, and hormone crosstalk. GASA coding sequences in barley were discovered in this study. We then investigated gene and protein structure, physicochemical characteristics, evolutionary and phylogenetic relationships, promoter region, post-translational modification, and in silico gene expression. Finally, real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) was used to examine the expression of GASA genes in root and shoot tissues under drought stress. We found 11 GASA genes spread across six of seven chromosomes in the barley genome. A conserved GASA domain and 12-cysteine residues at the C-terminus were included in the proteins. All GASA genes contained secretory signal peptides. The GASA genes in The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-023-03545-8.
Plant surface properties are crucial determinants of resilience to abiotic and biotic stresses. The outer layer of the plant cuticle consists of chemically diverse epicuticular waxes. The WAX INDUCER1/SHINE subfamily of APETALA2/ETHYLENE RESPONSIVE FACTORS regulates cuticle properties in plants. In this study, four barley genes homologous to the
WHIRLY1, a small plant-specific ssDNA-binding protein, dually located in chloroplasts and the nucleus, is discussed to act as a retrograde signal transmitting a stress signal from the chloroplast to the nucleus and triggering there a stress-related gene expression. In this work, we investigated the function of WHIRLY1 in the drought stress response of barley, employing two overexpression lines (oeW1-2 and oeW1-15). The overexpression of
Proteins that are pathogenesis-related 1 (PR-1) can accumulate to high levels when plants employ defenses, being major participants in processes critical for stress responses as well as development of many species. Yet we still lack information concerning
The description of long photoperiod sensitivity in wheat and barley is a cause of confusion for researchers working with these crops, usually accustomed to free exchange of physiological and genetic knowledge of such similar crops. Indeed, wheat and barley scientists customarily quote studies of either crop species when researching one of them. Among their numerous similarities, the main gene controlling the long photoperiod sensitivity is the same in both crops (PPD1; PPD-H1 in barley and PPD-D1 in hexaploid wheat). However, the photoperiod responses are different: (i) the main dominant allele inducing shorter time to anthesis is the insensitive allele in wheat (Ppd-D1a) but the sensitive allele in barley (Ppd-H1) (i.e. sensitivity to photoperiod produces opposite effects on time to heading in wheat and barley); (ii) the main 'insensitive' allele in wheat, Ppd-D1a, does confer insensitivity, whilst that of barley reduces the sensitivity but still responds to photoperiod. The different behaviour of PPD1 genes in wheat and barley is put in a common framework based on the similarities and differences of the molecular bases of their mutations, which include polymorphism at gene expression levels, copy number variation, and sequence of coding regions. This common perspective sheds light on a source of confusion for cereal researchers, and prompts us to recommend accounting for the photoperiod sensitivity status of the plant materials when conducting research on genetic control of phenology. Finally, we provide advice to facilitate the management of natural PPD1 diversity in breeding programmes and suggest targets for further modification through gene editing, based on mutual knowledge on the two crops.
WD40 transcription factors, a large gene family in eukaryotes, are involved in a variety of growth regulation and development pathways. WD40 plays an important role in the formation of MYB-bHLH-WD (MBW) complexes associated with anthocyanin synthesis, but studies of Qingke barley are lacking. In this study, 164 barley HvWD40 genes were identified in the barley genome and were analyzed to determine their relevant bioinformatics. The 164 HvWD40 were classified into 11 clusters and 14 subfamilies based on their structural and phylogenetic protein profiles. Co-lineage analysis revealed that there were 43 pairs between barley and rice, and 56 pairs between barley and maize. Gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis revealed that the molecular function, biological process, and cell composition were enriched. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) results showed that the RNA transport pathway was mainly enriched. Based on the identification and analysis of the barley WD40 family and the transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) results, we found that HvWD40-140 (WD40 family; Gene ID: r1G058730), HvANT1 (MYB family; Gene ID: HORVU7Hr1G034630), and HvANT2 (bHLH family; Gene ID: HORVU2Hr1G096810) were important components of the MBW complex related to anthocyanin biosynthesis in Qingke, which was verified via quantitative real-time fluorescence polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), subcellular location, yeast two-hybrid (Y2H), and bimolecular fluorescent complimentary (BiFC) and dual-luciferase assay analyses. In this study, we identified 164 HvWD40 genes in barley and found that HvnANT1, HvnANT2, and HvWD40-140 can form an MBW complex and regulate the transcriptional activation of the anthocyanin synthesis related structural gene HvDFR. The results of this study provide a theoretical basis for further study of the mechanism of HvWD40-140 in the MBW complex related to anthocyanin synthesis in Qingke.
Barley is considered as a foundation of the brewing and malting industry. Varieties with superior malt quality traits are required for efficient brewing and distillation processes. Among these, the Diastatic Power (DP), wort-Viscosity (VIS), β-glucan content (BG), Malt Extract (ME) and Alpha-Amylase (AA) are controlled by several genes linked to numerous quantitative trait loci (QTL), identified for barley malting quality. One of the well-known QTL, QTL2, associated with barley malting trait present on chromosome 4H harbours a key gene, called as HvTLP8 that has been identified for influencing the barley malting quality through its interaction with β-glucan in a redox-dependent manner. In this study, we examined to develop a functional molecular marker for HvTLP8 in the selection of superior malting cultivars. We first examined the expression of HvTLP8 and HvTLP17 containing carbohydrate binding domains in barley malt and feed varieties. The higher expression of HvTLP8 prompted us to further investigate its role as a marker for malting trait. By exploring the 1000 bp downstream 3' UTR region of HvTLP8, we found single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in between Steptoe (feed variety) and Morex (malt variety), which was further validated by Cleaved Amplified Polymorphic Sequence (CAPS) marker assay. Analysis of 91 individuals from the Steptoe x Morex doubled haploid (DH) mapping population revealed CAPS polymorphism in HvTLP8. Highly significant (p<0.001) correlations among ME, AA and DP malting traits were observed. The correlation coefficient (r) between these traits ranged from 0.53 to 0.65. However, the polymorphism in HvTLP8 did not correlate effectively with ME, AA, and DP. Altogether, these findings will help us to further design the experiment regarding the HvTLP8 variation and its association with other desirable traits.
Cereal yellow dwarf virus (CYDV-RPV) encodes a P0 protein that functions as a viral suppressor of RNA silencing (VSR). The strength of silencing suppression is highly variable among CYDV-RPV isolates. In this study, comparison of the P0 sequences of CYDV-RPV isolates and mutational analysis identified a single C-terminal amino acid that influenced P0 RNA-silencing suppressor activity. A serine at position 247 was associated with strong suppressor activity, whereas a proline at position 247 was associated with weak suppressor activity. Amino acid changes at position 247 did not affect the interaction of P0 with SKP1 proteins from Hordeum vulgare (barley) or Nicotiana benthamiana. Subsequent studies found P0 proteins containing a P247 residue were less stable than the P0 proteins containing an S247 residue. Higher temperatures contributed to the lower stability and in planta and the P247 P0 proteins were subject to degradation via the autophagy-mediated pathway. A P247S amino acid residue substitution in P0 increased CYDV-RPV replication after expression in agroinfiltrated plant leaves and increased viral pathogenicity of P0 generated from the heterologous Potato virus X expression vector system. Moreover, an S247 CYDV-RPV could outcompete the P247 CYDV-RPV in a mixed infection in natural host at higher temperature. These traits contributed to increased transmission by aphid vectors and could play a significant role in virus competition in warming climates. Our findings underscore the capacity of a plant RNA virus to adapt to climate warming through minor genetic changes in gene-silencing suppressor, resulting in the potential for disease persistence and prevalence.
RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) has been widely used to study the dynamic expression patterns of transcribed genes, which can lead to new biological insights. However, processing and analyzing these huge amounts of histological data remains a great challenge for wet labs and field researchers who lack bioinformatics experience and computational resources. We present BarleyExpDB, an easy-to-operate, free, and web-accessible database that integrates transcriptional profiles of barley at different growth and developmental stages, tissues, and stress conditions, as well as differential expression of mutants and populations to build a platform for barley expression and visualization. The expression of a gene of interest can be easily queried by searching by known gene ID or sequence similarity. Expression data can be displayed as a heat map, along with functional descriptions as well as Gene Ontology, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, Proteins Families Database, and Simple Modular Architecture Research Tool annotations. BarleyExpDB will serve as a valuable resource for the barley research community to leverage the vast publicly available RNA-seq datasets for functional genomics research and crop molecular breeding.
Previous studies of gene function rely on the existing natural genetic variation or on induction of mutations by physical or chemical mutagenesis. The availability of alleles in nature, and random mutagenesis induced by physical or chemical means, limits the depth of research. The CRISPR/Cas9 (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR-associated protein 9) system provides the means to rapidly modify genomes in a precise and predictable way, making it possible to modulate gene expression and modify the epigenome. Barley is the most appropriate model species for functional genomic analysis of common wheat. Therefore, the genome editing system of barley is very important for the study of wheat gene function. Here we detail a protocol for barley gene editing. The effectiveness of this method has been confirmed in our previous published studies.
Barley yellow dwarf viruses (BYDVs) are one of the most widespread and economically important plant viruses affecting many cereal crops. Growing resistant varieties remains the most promising approach to reduce the impact of BYDVs. A Recent RNA sequencing analysis has revealed potential genes that respond to BYDV infection in resistant barley genotypes. Together with a comprehensive review of the current knowledge on disease resistance in plants, we selected nine putative barley and wheat genes to investigate their involvement in resistance to BYDV-PAV infection. The target classes of genes were (i) nucleotide binding site (NBS) leucine-rich repeat (LRR), (ii) coiled-coil nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat (CC-NB-LRR), (iii) LRR receptor-like kinase (RLK), (iv) casein kinase, (v) protein kinase, (vi) protein phosphatase subunits and the transcription factors (TF) (vii) MYB TF, (viii) GRAS (gibberellic acid-insensitive (GAI), repressor of GAI (RGA) and scarecrow (SCR)), and (ix) the MADS-box TF family. Expression of genes was analysed for six genotypes with different levels of resistance. As in previous reports, the highest BYDV-PAV titre was found in the susceptible genotypes Graciosa in barley and Semper and SGS 27-02 in wheat, which contrast with the resistant genotypes PRS-3628 and Wysor of wheat and barley, respectively. Statistically significant changes in wheat show up-regulation of
The root is an important organ for obtaining nutrients and absorbing water and carbohydrates, and it depends on various endogenous and external environmental stimulations such as light, temperature, water, plant hormones, and metabolic constituents. Auxin, as an essential plant hormone, can mediate rooting under different light treatments. Therefore, this review focuses on summarizing the functions and mechanisms of light-regulated auxin signaling in root development. Some light-response components such as phytochromes (PHYs), cryptochromes (CRYs), phototropins (PHOTs), phytochrome-interacting factors (PIFs) and constitutive photo-morphorgenic 1 (COP1) regulate root development. Moreover, light mediates the primary root, lateral root, adventitious root, root hair, rhizoid, and seminal and crown root development via the auxin signaling transduction pathway. Additionally, the effect of light through the auxin signal on root negative phototropism, gravitropism, root greening and the root branching of plants is also illustrated. The review also summarizes diverse light target genes in response to auxin signaling during rooting. We conclude that the mechanism of light-mediated root development via auxin signaling is complex, and it mainly concerns in the differences in plant species, such as barley (
Increasing crop productivity under optimal conditions and mitigating yield losses under stressful conditions is a major challenge in contemporary agriculture. We have recently identified an effective anti-senescence compound (MTU, [1-(2-methoxyethyl)-3-(1,2,3-thiadiazol-5yl)urea]) in
This study aimed to investigate the effects of grains, and protein sources in the starter diet on daily gain, pro- and anti-inflammatory genes expression, ruminal volatile fatty acid (VFA) concentration, and blood metabolites in the dairy calves. Forty Holstein calves were randomly assigned to treatments in a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement with the factors of grain source (steam-flaked corn, CG vs. steam-rolled barley, BG) and pelleted protein source (soybean meal, SBM vs. canola meal, CM). The daily gain of calves who fed with SBM was higher than those fed with CM. Total VFA concentration in the rumen of calves fed with CG was greater than BG at day 35 (
Nitrogen is one of the most important mineral elements for plant growth and development. Excessive nitrogen application not only pollutes the environment, but also reduces the quality of crops. However, are few studies on the mechanism of barley tolerance to low nitrogen at both the transcriptome and metabolomics levels. In this study, the nitrogen-efficient genotype (W26) and the nitrogen-sensitive genotype (W20) of barley were treated with low nitrogen (LN) for 3 days and 18 days, then treated with resupplied nitrogen (RN) from 18 to 21 days. Later, the biomass and the nitrogen content were measured, and RNA-seq and metabolites were analyzed. The nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) of W26 and W20 treated with LN for 21 days was estimated by nitrogen content and dry weight, and the values were 87.54% and 61.74%, respectively. It turned out to have a significant difference in the two genotypes under the LN condition. According to the transcriptome analysis, 7926 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 7537 DEGs were identified in the leaves of W26 and W20, respectively, and 6579 DEGs and 7128 DEGs were found in the roots of W26 and W20, respectively. After analysis of the metabolites, 458 differentially expressed metabolites (DAMs) and 425 DAMs were found in the leaves of W26 and W20, respectively, and 486 DAMs and 368 DAMs were found in the roots of W26 and W20, respectively. According to the KEGG joint analysis of DEGs and DAMs, it was discovered that glutathione (GSH) metabolism was the pathway of significant enrichment in the leaves of both W26 and W20. In this study, the metabolic pathways of nitrogen metabolism and GSH metabolism of barley under nitrogen were constructed based on the related DAMs and DEGs. In leaves, GSH, amino acids, and amides were the main identified DAMs, while in roots, GSH, amino acids, and phenylpropanes were mainly found DAMs. Finally, some nitrogen-efficient candidate genes and metabolites were selected based on the results of this study. The responses of W26 and W20 to low nitrogen stress were significantly different at the transcriptional and metabolic levels. The candidate genes that have been screened will be verified in future. These data not only provide new insights into how barley responds to LN, but also provide new directions for studying the molecular mechanisms of barley under abiotic stress.
Lignin is an essential metabolite for plant growth but negatively affects the quality of forage barley. Genetic modification of quality traits to improve the forage digestibility requires an understanding of the molecular mechanism of lignin biosynthesis. RNA-Seq was used to quantify transcripts differentially expressed among leaf, stem and spike tissues from two barley genotypes. A total of 13,172 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, of which much more up-regulated DEGs were detected from the contrasting groups of leaf vs spike (L-S) and stem vs spike (S-S), and down-regulated DEGs were dominant in the group of stem vs leaf (S-L). 47 DEGs were successfully annotated to the monolignol pathway and six of them were candidate genes regulating the lignin biosynthesis. The qRT-PCR assay verified the expression profiles of the six candidate genes. Among them, four genes might positively regulate the lignin biosynthesis during forage barley development in terms of the consistency of their expression levels and changes of lignin content among the tissues, while the other two genes may have the reverse effects. These findings provide target genes for further investigations on molecular regulatory mechanisms of lignin biosynthesis and genetic resources for improvement of forage quality in barley molecular breeding programme.
Seed germination is crucial for plant productivity, and the biochemical changes during germination affect seedling survival, plant health and yield. While the general metabolism of germination is extensively studied, the role of specialized metabolism is less investigated. We therefore analyzed the metabolism of the defense compound dhurrin during sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) grain germination and early seedling development. Dhurrin is a cyanogenic glucoside, which is catabolized into different bioactive compounds at other stages of plant development, but its fate and role during germination is unknown. We dissected sorghum grain into three different tissues and investigated dhurrin biosynthesis and catabolism at the transcriptomic, metabolomic and biochemical level. We further analyzed transcriptional signature differences of cyanogenic glucoside metabolism between sorghum and barley (Hordeum vulgare), which produces similar specialized metabolites. We found that dhurrin is de novo biosynthesized and catabolized in the growing embryonic axis as well as the scutellum and aleurone layer, two tissues otherwise mainly acknowledged for their involvement in release and transport of general metabolites from the endosperm to the embryonic axis. In contrast, genes encoding cyanogenic glucoside biosynthesis in barley are exclusively expressed in the embryonic axis. Glutathione transferase enzymes (GSTs) are involved in dhurrin catabolism and the tissue-resolved analysis of GST expression identified new pathway candidate genes and conserved GSTs as potentially important in cereal germination. Our study demonstrates a highly dynamic tissue- and species-specific specialized metabolism during cereal grain germination, highlighting the importance of tissue-resolved analyses and identification of specific roles of specialized metabolites in fundamental plant processes.
SWEET (Sugars Will Eventually be Exported Transporter) proteins, an essential class of sugar transporters, are involved in vital biological processes of plant growth and development. To date, systematical analysis of
Currently, there is very limited information about long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) found in barley. It remains unclear whether barley lncRNAs are responsive to Piriformospora indica (P. indica) colonization.We found that barley roots exhibited fast development and that large roots branched after P. indica colonization. Genome-wide high-throughput RNA-seq and bioinformatic analysis showed that 4356 and 5154 differentially expressed LncRNAs (DELs) were found in response to P. indica at 3 and 7 days after colonization (dai), respectively, and 2456 DELs were found at 7 dai compared to 3 dai. Based on the coexpression correlation of lncRNAmRNA, we found that 98.6% of lncRNAs were positively correlated with 3430 mRNAs at 3 dai and 7 dai. Further GO analysis showed that 30 lncRNAs might be involved in the regulation of gene transcription; 23 lncRNAs might participate in cell cycle regulation. Moreover, the metabolite analysis indicated that chlorophyll a, sucrose, protein, gibberellin, and auxin were in accordance with the results of the transcriptome, and the respective lncRNAs were positively correlated with these target RNAs. Gene silencing suggested that lncRNA TCONS_00262342 is probably a key regulator of GA
Even though Sugars Will Eventually be Exported Transporters (SWEETs) have been found in every sequenced plant genome, a comprehensive understanding of their functionality is lacking. In this study, we focused on the SWEET family of barley (Hordeum vulgare). A radiotracer assay revealed that expressing HvSWEET11b in African clawed frog (Xenopus laevis) oocytes facilitated the bidirectional transfer of not only just sucrose and glucose, but also cytokinin. Barley plants harboring a loss-of-function mutation of HvSWEET11b could not set viable grains, while the distribution of sucrose and cytokinin was altered in developing grains of plants in which the gene was knocked down. Sucrose allocation within transgenic grains was disrupted, which is consistent with the changes to the cytokinin gradient across grains, as visualized by magnetic resonance imaging and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy microimaging. Decreasing HvSWEET11b expression in developing grains reduced overall grain size, sink strength, the number of endopolyploid endosperm cells, and the contents of starch and protein. The control exerted by HvSWEET11b over sugars and cytokinins likely predetermines their synergy, resulting in adjustments to the grain's biochemistry and transcriptome.
Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) are naturally occurring soil bacteria and are known to induce plant growth promotion and titanium dioxide (TiO
Understanding the genetic and molecular function of nitrate sensing and acquisition across crop species will accelerate breeding of cultivars with improved nitrogen use efficiency (NUE). Here, we performed a genome-wide scan using wheat and barley accessions characterized under low and high N inputs that uncovered the NPF2.12 gene, encoding a homolog of the Arabidopsis nitrate transceptor NRT1.6 and other low-affinity nitrate transporters that belong to the MAJOR FACILITATOR SUPERFAMILY. Next, it is shown that variations in the NPF2.12 promoter correlated with altered NPF2.12 transcript levels where decreased gene expression was measured under low nitrate availability. Multiple field trials revealed a significantly enhanced N content in leaves and grains and NUE in the presence of the elite allele TaNPF2.12
Evaluation of the extent of genetic variation within and between the populations of crop genetic resources are of paramount importance in any breeding program. An experiment aimed at assessing the extent of variation among barley lines and the degree of association between hordein polypeptide and agronomic traits was hence executed. Field experiment was conducted in six environments between 2017-2019 involving 19 barley lines. Hordein bands were separated using vertical Sodium Dodecyl Sulphate Poly- acrylamide Gel Electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). The analysis of variance revealed significant variation among lines and wider range units were observed for the agronomic traits. The line (Acc# 16,811-6) was superior, producing the highest grain yield (2.97 ton ha The barley lines exhibited substantial variation for hordein protein and agronomic traits. However, imparted the need for the implementation of decentralized breeding as a consequence of genotype-by-environment interaction. Significant hordein polypeptide and agronomic traits association advocated the utilization of hordein as a protein marker and perhaps consider them in the parental line selection.
Accumulation and metabolic profile of phenolic compounds (PheCs; serving as UV-screening pigments and antioxidants) as well as carbon fixation rate (A
A differential detection reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (DD-RT-LAMP) method was developed to detect either Barley yellow mosaic virus (BaYMV) or Japanese soil-borne wheat mosaic virus (JSBWMV) simultaneously. Both primer sets, which recognized either BaYMV or JSBWMV genomic RNA, amplified DNA more efficiently at 65°C using an isothermal DNA amplification and fluorescence detection device. Furthermore, these primer sets showed unique annealing curves. The peak annealing temperatures of BaYMV and JSBWMV amplification products using specific primer sets were 86.9°C-87.7°C and 84.5°C-85.0°C, respectively, and were clearly distinguishable during an annealing step following the isothermal amplification, monitored using a fluorescence detection device. In the field samples of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) tested, BaYMV or JSBWMV were detected by DD-RT-LAMP, and the detection results of DD-RT-LAMP were correspondent with the results of reverse transcription-PCR.
The level of bioactive gibberellins (GAs) in plants is regulated partly by their inactivation, mainly by the action of GA 2-oxidases (GA2oxs). This study identified three new GA2ox genes in barley: HvGA2ox1, HvGA2ox3 and HvGA2ox6. Analysis of their nucleotide and putative amino acid sequences revealed that they share high sequence identity with other plant GA2oxs and their corresponding proteins. Phylogenetic analysis revealed the HvGA2ox1, HvGA2ox3 and HvGA2ox6 belong to GA2ox structural classes II, I, and III, respectively. Feeding the HvGA2ox1 and HvGA2ox3 recombinant proteins with the C19-GAs, GA
Despite numerous studies aimed at unraveling the genetic background of barley's response to abiotic stress, the modulation of the transcriptome induced by combinatorial drought and increased temperature remains largely unrecognized. Very limited studies were done, especially on the flag leaf, which plays an important role in grain filling in cereals. In the present study, transcriptome profiles, along with chlorophyll fluorescence parameters and yield components, were compared between barley genotypes with different flag leaf sizes under single and combined drought and heat stress. High-throughput mRNA sequencing revealed 2,457 differentially expressed genes, which were functionally interpreted using Gene Ontology term enrichment analysis. The transcriptomic signature under double stress was more similar to effects caused by drought than by elevated temperature; it was also manifested at phenotypic and chlorophyll fluorescence levels. Both common and stress-specific changes in transcript abundance were identified. Genes regulated commonly across stress treatments, determining universal stress responses, were associated, among others, with responses to drought, heat, and oxidative stress. In addition, changes specific to the size of the flag leaf blade were found. Our study allowed us to identify sets of genes assigned to various processes underlying the response to drought and heat, including photosynthesis, the abscisic acid pathway, and lipid transport. Genes encoding LEA proteins, including dehydrins and heat shock proteins, were especially induced by stress treatments. Some association between genetic composition and flag leaf size was confirmed. However, there was no general coincidence between SNP polymorphism of genotypes and differential expression of genes induced by stress factors. This research provided novel insight into the molecular mechanisms of barley flag leaf that determine drought and heat response, as well as their co-occurrence.
Cadmium (Cd) is one of the most detrimental heavy metal pollutants, seriously affecting crop production and human health. Nucleobase-ascorbic acid transporters (NAT) are widely present in many living organisms including plants, animals and microbes; however, the role of NAT in plant Cd tolerance remains unknown. To identify Cd-induced miRNAs that target HvNAT2 and to determine the role of this gene and its product in Cd tolerance. High-throughput-sequencing was used to identify the miRNA expression profile of barley roots in response to Cd stress. Overexpression (OX) and RNAi lines were then constructed for HvNAT2 and comparative transcriptomic analysis was performed to determine the function of this transporter examining its effects on traits such as Cd uptake/flux and translocation, morphology and antioxidant capacity in relation to Cd tolerance. In addition, phylogenetic analysis was performed to obtain insights into the evolution of HvNAT2. Cd stress-induced genome-wide expression profiles of miRNAs identified a Cd-induced miRNA, miR156g-3p_3, that had HvNAT2 as its target. HvNAT2 was negatively regulated in the high-Cd-accumulating and Cd-tolerant genotype Zhenong8. Evolutionary analysis indicated that orthologues of the plasma membrane localized, HvNAT2, can be traced back to the sister group of land plants, the streptophyte algae. Overexpression of HvNAT2 increases Cd tolerance with higher tissue Cd accumulation but less oxidative damage in transgenic barley plants. RNAi of HvNAT2 leads to a significant reduction of Cd tolerance. The higher Cd accumulation in roots of the OX3 line was also demonstrated by confocal microscopy and electrophysiology. Transcriptome analysis showed that the enhancement of antioxidant capacity by HvNAT2 was related to stress signaling pathways. Furthermore, oxidative stress tolerance in HvNAT2-OX plants was regulated by the synthesis of phytochelatins and the glutathione metabolism cycle. Our study reveals a key molecular mechanism of NAT in Cd tolerance in plants that is useful for sustainable agricultural production and management of hazardous this heavy metal for better environment management and ecosystem function.
Waterlogging is one of the major abiotic stresses in barley and greatly reduces grain yield and quality. To explore the mechanism controlling waterlogging tolerance in barley, physiological, anatomical and transcriptional analyses were performed in two contrasting barley varieties, viz. Franklin (susceptible) and TX9425 (tolerant). Compared to Franklin, TX9425 had more adventitious roots and aerenchymas and higher antioxidant enzyme activities. A total of 3064 and 5693 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in TX9425 after 24 h and 72 h of waterlogging treatment, respectively, while 2297 and 8462 DEGs were identified in Franklin. The results suggested that TX9425 was less affected by waterlogging stress after 72 h of treatment. The DEGs were enriched mainly in energy metabolism, hormone regulation, reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging, and cell wall-modifying enzymes. Alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) plays an important role in response to waterlogging stress. We found that HvADH4 was significantly upregulated under waterlogging stress in TX9425. Transgenic Arabidopsis overexpressing HvADH4 displayed higher activity of antioxidant enzymes and was more tolerant to waterlogging than the wild type (WT). The current results provide valuable information that will be of great value for the exploration of new candidate genes for molecular breeding of waterlogging tolerance in barley.
Flooding stress affects soil properties thus altering the availability, uptake, and transport of mineral nutrients in plant roots. Flooding stress also increases the amount of soluble Mn
A major QTL (qS7.1) for salinity damage score and Na+ exclusion was identified on chromosome 7H from a barley population derived from a cross between a cultivated variety and a wild accession. qS7.1 was fine-mapped to a 2.46 Mb physical interval and HvNCX encoding a sodium/calcium exchanger is most likely the candidate gene. Soil salinity is one of the major abiotic stresses affecting crop yield. Developing salinity-tolerant varieties is critical for minimizing economic penalties caused by salinity and providing solutions for global food security. Many genes/QTL for salt tolerance have been reported in barley, but only a few of them have been cloned. In this study, a total of 163 doubled haploid lines from a cross between a cultivated barley variety Franklin and a wild barley accession TAM407227 were used to map QTL for salinity tolerance. Four significant QTL were identified for salinity damage scores. One (qS2.1) was located on 2H, determining 7.5% of the phenotypic variation. Two (qS5.1 and qS5.2) were located on 5H, determining 5.3-11.7% of the phenotypic variation. The most significant QTL was found on 7H, explaining 27.8% of the phenotypic variation. Two QTL for Na
Sucrose nonfermenting 2 (Snf2) family proteins, as the catalytic core of ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling complexes, play important roles in nuclear processes as diverse as DNA replication, transcriptional regulation, and DNA repair and recombination. The
Root gravitropism includes gravity perception in the root cap, signal transduction between root cap and elongation zone, and curvature response in the elongation zone. The barley (Hordeum vulgare) mutant enhanced gravitropism 2 (egt2) displays a hypergravitropic root phenotype. We compared the transcriptomic reprogramming of the root cap, the meristem, and the elongation zone of wild-type (WT) and egt2 seminal roots upon gravistimulation in a time-course experiment and identified direct interaction partners of EGT2 by yeast-two-hybrid screening and bimolecular fluorescence complementation validation. We demonstrated that the elongation zone is subjected to most transcriptomic changes after gravistimulation. Here, 33% of graviregulated genes are also transcriptionally controlled by EGT2, suggesting a central role of this gene in controlling the molecular networks associated with gravitropic bending. Gene co-expression analyses suggested a role of EGT2 in cell wall and reactive oxygen species-related processes, in which direct interaction partners of EGT2 regulated by EGT2 and gravity might be involved. Taken together, this study demonstrated the central role of EGT2 and its interaction partners in the networks controlling root zone-specific transcriptomic reprogramming of barley roots upon gravistimulation. These findings can contribute to the development of novel root idiotypes leading to improved crop performance.
In cereal species, grain size is influenced by growth of the ovule integuments (seed coat), the spikelet hull (lemma and palea) and the filial endosperm. Whether a highly conserved ovule tissue, the nucellus, has any impact on grain size has remained unclear. Immunolabelling revealed that the barley nucellus comprises two distinct cell types that differ in terms of cell wall homogalacturonan (HG) accumulation. Transcriptional profiling of the nucellus identified two pectin methylesterase (PME) genes, OVULE PECTIN MODIFIER 1 (OPM1) and OPM2, which are expressed in the unfertilized ovule but absent from the seed. Ovules from an opm1 opm2 mutant and plants expressing an ovule-specific pectin methylesterase inhibitor (PMEI), exhibit reduced HG accumulation. This results in changes to ovule cell size and shape and ovules that are longer than wild-type (WT) controls. At grain maturity, this is manifested as significantly longer grain. These findings indicate that cell wall composition during ovule development acts to limit ovule and seed growth. The investigation of ovule PME and PMEI activity reveals an unexpected role of maternal tissues in controlling grain growth before fertilization, one that has been lacking from models exploring improvements in grain size.
The highly conserved tubby-like proteins (TLPs) play key roles in animal neuronal development and plant growth. The abiotic stress tolerance function of TLPs has been widely explored in plants, however, little is known about comparative studies of TLPs within crops. Bioinformatic identification, phylogenetic analysis, Cis-element analysis, expression analysis, Cis-element analysis, expression analysis and so on were explored to analysis the TLP gene family of multiple crops. In this study, a comprehensive analysis of Combined yeast two-hybrid system and pull down assay, we suggested that the
Metal-tolerance proteins (MTPs) are divalent cation transporters that play critical roles in metal tolerance and ion homeostasis in plants. However, a comprehensive study of MTPs is still lacking in crop plants. The current study aimed to comprehensively identify and characterize the MTP gene family in barley (Hordeum vulgare, Hv), an important crop. In total, 12 HvMTPs were identified in the barley genome in this study. They were divided into three phylogenetic groups (Zn-cation diffusion facilitator proteins [CDFs], Fe/Zn-CDFs, and Mn-CDFs) and further subdivided into seven groups (G1, G5, G6, G7, G8, G9, and G12). The majority of MTPs were hydrophobic proteins found in the vacuolar membrane. Gene duplication analysis of HvMTPs revealed one pair of segmental-like duplications in the barley genome. Evolutionary analysis suggested that barley MTPs underwent purifying natural selection. Additionally, the HvMTPs were analyzed in the pan-genome sequences of barley (20 accessions), which suggests that HvMTPs are highly conserved in barley evolution. Cis-acting regulatory elements, microRNA target sites, and protein-protein interaction analysis indicated the role of HvMTPs in a variety of biological processes. Expression profiling suggests that HvMTPs play an active role in maintaining barley nutrient homeostasis throughout its life cycle, and their expression levels were not significantly altered by abiotic stresses like cold, drought, or heat. The expression of barley HvMTP genes in the presence of heavy metals such as Zn
Plant homeodomain (PHD) transcription factors (TFs) are a class of proteins with conserved Cys4-His-Cys3 domains that play important roles in plant growth and development and in response to abiotic stresses. Although characterization of
Highland barley (Hordeum vulgare L. HB) has been demonstrated to have a series of dietotherapy values, including being low fat, low sugar, high fiber, and especially high in β-glucan. Long-term consumption could reduce the incidence of chronic diseases and metabolic syndromes. In this study, the regulating effect of modified highland barley (MHB) products, namely microwave fluidized HB, extruded and puffed HB, and ultrafine pulverized HB on lipid metabolism and liver injury in mice fed a high fat and cholesterol diet (HFCD) was investigated using microbiota diversity gene sequencing and untargeted metabolomics. A total of six groups of mice were supplemented with a normal diet or an HFCD, with or without MHB, and the experimental period lasted 10 weeks. The obtained results demonstrated that MHB supplementation could effectively reverse the increase in body weight gain and adipose tissue accumulation caused by an HFCD (p < 0.05). Moreover, serum biochemical parameters showed that MHB supplementation significantly decreased total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels, while increasing high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels. The results of hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) assays showed that MHB supplementation could significantly improve the liver injury and adipose tissue accumulation. In addition, 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing showed that MHB supplementation increased the bacteroidetes/firmicutes ratio and the abundance Lactobacillus abundance, while also decreasing the Proteobacteria abundance, which are bacteria closely associated with the hyperlipidemia caused by HFCD. LC-MS metabolomics indicated that MHB supplementation significantly enhanced the levels of Deoxycholic acid, Myclobutanil, 3-Epiecdysone, 3,4-Dihydroxybenzeneacetic acid, and so on. In addition, MHB supplementation promoted activation of the Arachidonic acid metabolism pathways, the expression of ABC transporters, bile secretion, primary bile acid biosynthesis, and so on. Above all, this study showed the potential capacity of MHB to relieve hyperlipidemia and provides a reference for developing a new dietary intervention supplement to ameliorate hyperlipidemia.
Kinesin, as a member of the molecular motor protein superfamily, plays an essential function in various plants' developmental processes. Especially at the early stages of plant growth, including influences on plants' growth rate, yield, and quality. In this study, we did a genome-wide identification and expression profile analysis of the kinesin family in barley. Forty-two HvKINs were identified and screened from the barley genome, and a generated phylogenetic tree was used to compare the evolutionary relationships between Rice and Arabidopsis. The protein structure prediction, physicochemical properties, and bioinformatics of the HvKINs were also dissected. Our results reveal the important regulatory roles of
The cis-regulatory element became increasingly important for resistance breeding. There were many DNA variations identified by resequencing. To investigate the links between the DNA variations and cis-regulatory element was the fundamental work. DNA variations in cis-regulatory elements caused phenotype variations in general. We used WGBS, ChIP-seq and RNA-seq technology to decipher the regulatory element landscape from eight hulless barley varieties under four kinds of abiotic stresses. We discovered 231,440 lowly methylated regions (LMRs) from the methylome data of eight varieties. The LMRs mainly distributed in the intergenic regions. A total of 97,909 enhancer-gene pairs were identified from the correlation analysis between methylation degree and expression level. A lot of enriched motifs were recognized from the tolerant-specific LMRs. The key transcription factors were screened out and the transcription factor regulatory network was inferred from the enhancer-gene pairs data for drought stress. The NAC transcription factor was predicted to target to TCP, bHLH, bZIP transcription factor genes. We concluded that the H3K27me3 modification regions overlapped with the LMRs more than the H3K4me3. The variation of single nucleotide polymorphism was more abundant in LMRs than the remain regions of the genome. Epigenetic regulation is an important mechanism for organisms to adapt to complex environments. Through the study of DNA methylation and histone modification, we found that many changes had taken place in enhancers and transcription factors in the abiotic stress of hulless barley. For example, transcription factors including NAC may play an important role. This enriched the molecular basis of highland barley stress response.
In response to environmental stress, plants activate complex signalling, including being dependent on reactive oxygen-nitrogen-sulphur species. One of the key abiotic stresses is drought. As a result of drought, changes in the level of hydration of the plant occur, which obviously entails various metabolic alternations. The primary aim of this study was to determine the relationship between the response of barley to drought and the intensity of stress, therefore investigations were performed under various levels of water saturation deficit (WSD) in leaves at 15%, 30%, and 50%. In barley subjected to drought, most significant changes occurred under a slight dehydration level at 15%. It was observed that the gene expression of 9-
Plant miRNAs are powerful regulators of gene expression at the post-transcriptional level, which was repeatedly proved in several model plant species. miRNAs are considered to be key regulators of many developmental, homeostatic, and immune processes in plants. However, our understanding of plant miRNAs is still limited, despite the fact that an increasing number of studies have appeared. This systematic review aims to summarize our current knowledge about miRNAs in spring barley (
Rapid population growth and dramatic climatic turnovers are challenging global crop production. These challenges are spurring plant breeders to enhance adaptation and sustainability of major crops. One intriguing approach is to turn annual systems into perennial ones, yet long-term classical breeding efforts to induce perenniality have achieved limited success. Here, we report the results of our investigation of the genetic basis of bulb formation in the nonmodel organism Hordeum bulbosum, a perennial species closely related to barley. To identify candidate genes that regulate bulb formation in H. bulbosum, we applied two complementary approaches. First, we explored the evolutionary conservation of expressed genes among annual Poaceae species. Next, we assembled a reference transcriptome for H. bulbosum and conducted a differential expression (DE) analysis before and after stimulating bulb initiation. Low conservation was identified in genes related to perenniality in H. bulbosum compared with other species, including bulb development and sugar accumulation genes. We also inspected these genes using a DE analysis, which enabled identification of additional genes responsible for bulb initiation and flowering regulation. We propose a molecular model for the regulation of bulb formation involving storage organ development and starch biosynthesis genes. The high conservation observed along a major part of the pathway between H. bulbosum and barley suggests a potential for the application of biotechnological techniques to accelerate breeding toward perenniality in barley.
Increase in ambient temperatures caused by climate change affects various morphological and developmental traits of plants, threatening crop yield stability. In the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, EARLY FLOWERING 3 (ELF3) plays prominent roles in temperature sensing and thermomorphogenesis signal transduction. However, how crop species respond to elevated temperatures is poorly understood. Here, we show that the barley ortholog of AtELF3 interacts with high temperature to control growth and development. We used heterogeneous inbred family (HIF) pairs generated from a segregating mapping population and systematically studied the role of exotic ELF3 variants in barley temperature responses. An exotic ELF3 allele of Syrian origin promoted elongation growth in barley at elevated temperatures, whereas plant area and estimated biomass were drastically reduced, resulting in an open canopy architecture. The same allele accelerated inflorescence development at high temperature, which correlated with early transcriptional induction of MADS-box floral identity genes BM3 and BM8. Consequently, barley plants carrying the exotic ELF3 allele displayed stable total grain number at elevated temperatures. Our findings therefore demonstrate that exotic ELF3 variants can contribute to phenotypic and developmental acclimation to elevated temperatures, providing a stimulus for breeding of climate-resilient crops.
Gene family expansion plays a central role in adaptive divergence and, ultimately, speciation is influenced by phenotypic diversity in different environments. Barley (
Blue aleurone of barley is caused by the accumulation of delphinidin-based derivatives. Although these compounds are ideal nutrients for human health, they are undesirable contaminants in malt brewing. Therefore, the ability to add and remove this trait easily would facilitate breeding barley for different purposes. Here we identified a glutathione S-transferase gene (HvGST) that was responsible for the blue aleurone trait in Tibetan qingke barley by performing a genome-wide association study and RNA-sequencing analysis. Gene variation and expression analysis indicated that HvGST also participates in the transport and accumulation of anthocyanin in purple barley. Haplotype and the geographic distribution analyses of HvGST alleles revealed two independent natural variants responsible for the emergence of white aleurone: a 203-bp deletion causing premature termination of translation in qingke barley and two key single nucleotide polymorphisms in the promoter resulting in low transcription in Western barley. This study contributes to a better understanding of mechanisms of colored barley formation, and provides a comprehensive reference for marker-assisted barley breeding.
This work aimed to study the plant conditioning effect and mode of action of a plant-based biostimulant used in organic farming. This new generation plant biostimulant, named ELICE16INDURES
Cuticular waxes comprise the hydrophobic layer that protects crops against nonstomatal water loss and biotic and abiotic stresses. Expanding on our current knowledge of the genes that are involved in cuticular wax biosynthesis and regulation plays an important role in dissecting the processes of cuticular wax metabolism. In this study, we identified the Cer-GN1 barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) mutant that is generated by ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis with a glossy spike phenotype that is controlled by a single recessive nuclear gene. A physiological analysis showed that the total cuticular wax loads of Cer-GN1 were one-third that of the progenitor wild-type (WT), and its water loss rate was significantly accelerated (p < 0.05). In addition, Cer-GN1 was defective in the glume’s cuticle according to the toluidine blue dye test, and it was deficient in the tubule-shaped crystals which were observed on the glume surfaces by scanning electron microscopy. Using metabolomics and transcriptomics, we investigated the impacts of cuticular wax composition and waxy regulatory genes on the loss of the glaucous wax in the spikes of Cer-GN1. Among the differential metabolites, we found that 16-hydroxyhexadecanoic acid, which is one of the predominant C16 and C18 fatty acid-derived cutin monomers, was significantly downregulated in Cer-GN1 when it was compared to that of WT. We identified two novel genes that are located on chromosome 4H and are downregulated in Cer-GN1 (HvMSTRG.29184 and HvMSTRG.29185) that encode long-chain fatty acid omega-monooxygenase CYP704B1, which regulates the conversion of C16 palmitic acid to 16-hydroxyhexadecanoic acid. A quantitative real-time PCR revealed that the expression levels of HvMSTRG.29184 and HvMSTRG.29185 were downregulated at 1, 4, 8, 12, and 16 days after the heading stage in Cer-GN1 when it was compared to those of WT. These results suggested that HvMSTRG.29184 and HvMSTRG.29185 have CYP704B1 activity, which could regulate the conversion of C16 palmitic acid to 16-hydroxyhexadecanoic acid in barley. Their downregulation in Cer-GN1 reduced the synthesis of the cuticular wax components and ultimately caused the loss of the glaucous wax in the spikes. It is necessary to verify whether HvMSTRG.29184 and HvMSTRG.29185 truly encode a CYP704B1 that regulates the conversion of C16 palmitic acid to 16-hydroxyhexadecanoic acid in barley.
Among cereals, barley is tolerant to high levels of salinity stress; however, its performance and global production are still dramatically affected by salinity. In this study, we evaluated the behavior of a set of advanced genotypes of barley with aim of assessing the physiological and molecular mechanisms involved in salinity tolerance. The experiment was conducted using a hydroponic system at optimal growing temperature and photoperiod conditions. The results of the analysis of variance (ANOVA) showed significant effects for salinity treatments and genotypes in terms of all measured traits. Salinity stress significantly increased the root and shoot Na+ contents and root-to-shoot Na
Global climate change and the urgency to transform food crops require substantial breeding efforts to meet the food security challenges. Barley, an important cereal, has remained a preferential host of phytotoxic diseases caused by the
The considerable drought tolerance of wild cereal crop progenitors has diminished during domestication in the pursuit of higher productivity. Regaining this trait in cereal crops is essential for global food security but requires novel genetic insight. Here, we assessed the molecular evidence for natural variation of drought tolerance in wild barley (Hordeum spontaneum), wild emmer wheat (Triticum dicoccoides), and Brachypodium species collected from dry and moist habitats at Evolution Canyon, Israel (ECI). We report that prevailing moist vs dry conditions have differentially shaped the stomatal and photosynthetic traits of these wild cereals in their respective habitats. We present the genomic and transcriptomic evidence accounting for differences, including co-expression gene modules, correlated with physiological traits, and selective sweeps, driven by the xeric site conditions on the African Slope (AS) at ECI. Co-expression gene module 'circadian rhythm' was linked to significant drought-induced delay in flowering time in Brachypodium stacei genotypes. African Slope-specific differentially expressed genes are important in barley drought tolerance, verified by silencing Disease-Related Nonspecific Lipid Transfer 1 (DRN1), Nonphotochemical Quenching 4 (NPQ4), and Brassinosteroid-Responsive Ring-H1 (BRH1). Our results provide new genetic information for the breeding of resilient wheat and barley in a changing global climate with increasingly frequent drought events.
New systems for agrochemical delivery in plants will foster precise agricultural practices and provide new tools to study plants and design crop traits, as standard spray methods suffer from elevated loss and limited access to remote plant tissues. Silk-based microneedles can circumvent these limitations by deploying a known amount of payloads directly in plants' deep tissues. However, plant response to microneedles' application and microneedles' efficacy in deploying physiologically relevant biomolecules are unknown. Here, it is shown that gene expression associated with Arabidopsis thaliana wounding response decreases within 24 h post microneedles' application. Additionally, microinjection of gibberellic acid (GA
Crops grown under stress conditions show restricted growth and, eventually, reduced yield. Among others, brassinosteroids (BRs) mitigate the effects of stress and improve plant growth. We used two barley cultivars with differing sensitivities to BRs, as determined by the lamina joint inclination test. Barley plants with the 2nd unfolded leaf were sprayed with a diluted series of bikinin, an inhibitor of the Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 (GSK3) family, which controls the BR signaling pathway. Barley was grown under salt stress conditions up to the start of the 5th leaf growth stage. The phenotypical, molecular, and physiological changes were determined. Our results indicate that the salt tolerance of barley depends on its sensitivity to BRs. We confirmed that barley treatment with bikinin reduced the level of the phosphorylated form of
Faced with terrestrial threats, land plants seal their aerial surfaces with a lipid-rich cuticle. To breathe, plants interrupt their cuticles with adjustable epidermal pores, called stomata, that regulate gas exchange, and develop other specialised epidermal cells such as defensive hairs. Mechanisms coordinating epidermal features remain poorly understood. Addressing this, we studied two loci whose allelic variation causes both cuticular wax-deficiency and misarranged stomata in barley, identifying the underlying genes, Cer-g/ HvYDA1, encoding a YODA-like (YDA) MAPKKK, and Cer-s/ HvBRX-Solo, encoding a single BREVIS-RADIX (BRX) domain protein. Both genes control cuticular integrity, the spacing and identity of epidermal cells, and barley's distinctive epicuticular wax blooms, as well as stomatal patterning in elevated CO
Frequent climate change-induced drought events are detrimental environmental stresses affecting global crop production and ecosystem health. Several efforts have facilitated crop breeding for resilient varieties to counteract stress. However, progress is hampered due to the complexity of drought tolerance; a greater variety of novel genes are required across varying environments. Tibetan annual wild barley is a unique and precious germplasm that is well adapted to abiotic stress and can provide elite genes for crop improvement in drought tolerance. To identify the genetic basis and unique mechanisms for drought tolerance in Tibetan wild barley. Whole genome resequencing and comparative RNA-seq approaches were performed to identify candidate genes associated with drought tolerance via investigating the genetic diversity and transcriptional variation between cultivated and Tibetan wild barley. Bioinformatics, population genetics, and gene silencing were conducted to obtain insights into ecological adaptation in barley and functions of key genes. Over 20 million genetic variants and a total of 15,361 significantly affected genes were identified in our dataset. Combined genomic, transcriptomic, evolutionary, and experimental analyses revealed 26 water deficit resilience-associated genes in the drought-tolerant wild barley XZ5 with unique genetic variants and expression patterns. Functional prediction revealed Tibetan wild barley employs effective regulators to activate various responsive pathways with novel genes, such as Zinc-Induced Facilitator-Like 2 (HvZIFL2) and Peroxidase 11 (HvPOD11), to adapt to water deficit conditions. Gene silencing and drought tolerance evaluation in a natural barley population demonstrated that HvZIFL2 and HvPOD11 positively regulate drought tolerance in barley. Our findings reveal functional genes that have been selected across barley's complex history of domestication to thrive in water deficit environments. This will be useful for molecular breeding and provide new insights into drought-tolerance mechanisms in wild relatives of major cereal crops.
Genetic variation is an important determinant of gene transcription, which in turn contributes to functional and phenotypic diversity. Identification of the genetic variants controlling gene expression and alternative splicing in crops responding to cadmium (Cd), an important issue for food safety and human health, is of great value to improve our understanding of Cd accumulation-related genes. Here we report an in-depth survey of population-level transcriptome variation of barley (Hordeum vulgare) core accessions under Cd exposure. We reveal marked transcriptomic changes in response to Cd exposure, and these are largely independent of tissues. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) revealed 59 498 expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) and 23 854 splicing quantitative trait loci (sQTLs), leading to a complex network that covers 66.6% of the expressed genes, including 68 metal transporter genes. On average, 41.0% of sQTLs overlapped with eQTLs across different tissues, indicating that these two dimensions of transcript variation are largely independent. Moreover, we found that 34.5% of GWAS QTLs that underlie 10 Cd accumulation traits in barley are co-localized with eQTLs and sQTLs, which could imply a mechanistic role of different genetic variants affecting gene expression and alternative splicing in these traits. This study highlights the role of distal and proximal genetic effects on gene expression, splicing, and phenotypic plasticity. We anticipate that our results on the genetic control of expression and splicing underlying Cd accumulation provide a bridge to better understand genetic variation and phenotypic diversity to elucidate the mechanisms underlying Cd accumulation in plants.
A gene family comprises a group of genes with similar functional domains that play various roles in plant growth, development, and responses to environmental stimuli. Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is the fourth most cultivated cereal crop worldwide, and it is an important model species for genetic studies. Systematic identification and annotation of gene families are key for studies of molecular function and evolutionary history. We constructed a multi-omics database containing 5593 genes of 77 gene families called the Barley Gene Family Database (BGFD: http://barleygfdb.com ). BGFD is a free, user-friendly, and web-accessible platform that provides data on barley family genes. BGFD provides intuitive visual displays to facilitate studies of the physicochemical properties, gene structure, phylogenetic relationships, and motif organization of genes. Massive multi-omics datasets have been acquired and processed to generate an atlas of expression pattern profiles and genetic variation in BGFD. The platform offers several practical toolkits to conduct searches, browse, and employ BLAST functions, and the data are downloadable. BGFD will aid research on the domestication and adaptive evolution of barley; it will also facilitate the screening of candidate genes and exploration of important agronomic traits in barley.
Proline accumulation is one of the major responses of plants to many abiotic stresses. However, the significance of proline accumulation for drought stress tolerance remains enigmatic in crop plants. First, we examined the natural variation of the pyrolline-5-carboxylate synthase (P5CS1) among 49 barley genotypes. Allele mining identified a previously unknown allelic series that showed polymorphisms at 42 cis-elements across the P5CS1 promoter. Selected haplotypes had quantitative variation in P5CS1 gene expression and proline accumulation, putatively influenced by both abscisic acid-dependent and independent pathways under drought stress. Next, we introgressed the P5CS1 allele from a high proline accumulating wild barley accession ISR42-8 into cultivar Scarlett developing a near-isogenic line (NIL-143). NIL-143 accumulated higher proline concentrations than Scarlett under drought stress at seedling and reproductive stages. Under drought stress, NIL-143 showed less pigment damage, sustained photosynthetic health, and higher drought stress recovery compared to Scarlett. Further, the drought-induced damage to yield-related traits, mainly thousand-grain weight, was lower in NIL-143 compared with Scarlett in field conditions. Our data uncovered new variants of the P5CS1 promoter and the significance of the increased proline accumulation regulated by the P5CS1 allele of ISR42-8 in drought stress tolerance and yield stability in barley.
The average sowing date of crops in temperate climate zones has been shifted forwards by several days, resulting in a changed photoperiod regime at the emergence stage. In the present study, we performed a global transcriptome profiling of plant development genes in the seedling stage of root and shoot apical meristems of a photoperiod-sensitive species (barley) and a photoperiod insensitive species (tomato) in short-day conditions (8h). Variant expression indicated differences in physiological development under this short day-length regime between species and tissues. The barley tissue transcriptome revealed reduced differentiation compared to tomato. In addition, decreased photosynthetic activity was observed in barley transcriptome and leaf chlorophyll content under 8h conditions, indicating a slower physiological development of shoot meristems than in tomatoes. The photomorphogenesis controlling cryptochrome gene cry1, with an effect on physiological differentiation, showed an underexpression in barley compared to tomato shoot meristems. This might lead to a cascade of suspended sink-source activities, which ultimately delay organ development and differentiation in barley shoot meristems under short photoperiods.
We explored the polyamine (PA) metabolic pathway genes in barley (Hv) to understand plant development and stress adaptation in Gramineae crops with emphasis on leaf senescence. Bioinformatics and functional genomics tools were utilized for genome-wide identification, comprehensive gene features, evolution, development and stress effects on the expression of the polyamine metabolic pathway gene families (PMGs). Three S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylases (HvSAMDCs), two ornithine decarboxylases (HvODCs), one arginine decarboxylase (HvADC), one spermidine synthase (HvSPDS), two spermine synthases (HvSPMSs), five copper amine oxidases (HvCuAOs) and seven polyamine oxidases (HvPAOs) members of PMGs were identified and characterized in barley. All the HvPMG genes were found to be distributed on all chromosomes of barley. The phylogenetic and comparative assessment revealed that PA metabolic pathway is highly conserved in plants and the prediction of nine H. vulgare miRNAs (hvu-miR) target sites, 18 protein-protein interactions and 961 putative CREs in the promoter region were discerned. Gene expression of HvSAMDC3, HvCuAO7, HvPAO4 and HvSPMS1 was apparent at every developmental stage. SPDS/SPMS gene family was found to be the most responsive to induced leaf senescence. This study provides a reference for the functional investigation of the molecular mechanism(s) that regulate polyamine metabolism in plants as a tool for future breeding decision management systems.
Thaumatin-like proteins (TLPs) participate in the defense responses of plants as well as their growth and development processes, including seed germination. Yet the functioning of
Divergent selection of populations in contrasting environments leads to functional genomic divergence. However, the genomic architecture underlying heterogeneous genomic differentiation remains poorly understood. Here, we de novo assembled two high-quality wild barley (Hordeum spontaneum K. Koch) genomes and examined genomic differentiation and gene expression patterns under abiotic stress in two populations. These two populations had a shared ancestry and originated in close geographic proximity but experienced different selective pressures due to their contrasting micro-environments. We identified structural variants that may have played significant roles in affecting genes potentially associated with well-differentiated phenotypes such as flowering time and drought response between two wild barley genomes. Among them, a 29-bp insertion into the promoter region formed a cis-regulatory element in the HvWRKY45 gene, which may contribute to enhanced tolerance to drought. A single SNP mutation in the promoter region may influence HvCO5 expression and be putatively linked to local flowering time adaptation. We also revealed significant genomic differentiation between the two populations with ongoing gene flow. Our results indicate that SNPs and small SVs link to genetic differentiation at the gene level through local adaptation and are maintained through divergent selection. In contrast, large chromosome inversions may have shaped the heterogeneous pattern of genomic differentiation along the chromosomes by suppressing chromosome recombination and gene flow. Our research offers novel insights into the genomic basis underlying local adaptation and provides valuable resources for the genetic improvement of cultivated barley.
Ultraviolet B (UV-B) radiation can enhance the accumulation of phenolic compounds (PCs) in barley seedling, although this may result in severe oxidative damage. In the present study, the role of spermidine in alleviating oxidative damage and regulating synthesis of PCs in barley seedlings under UV-B stress was investigated. Exogenous spermidine increased the length and fresh weight as well as PCs contents of barley seedlings under UV-B stress. Application of dicyclohexylamine, an inhibitor of endogenous spermidine synthesis, significantly inhibited the growth and PC accumulation of barley seedlings under UV-B stress, although this inhibitory effect can be alleviated by exogenous spermidine. Exogenous spermidine increased the contents of vanillic acid, syringic acid, protocatechuic acid and p-coumaric acid in barley seedlings under UV-B stress by 20-200% through enhancing the activities of enzymes related to synthesis of these acids. In addition, exogenous spermidine enhanced activities and gene expression of antioxidant enzymes in barley seedlings under UV-B stress, including peroxidase, glutathione reductase and glutathione S-transferase. Spermidine can alleviate oxidative damage of barley seedlings under UV-B stress and enhance the accumulation of PCs. © 2022 Society of Chemical Industry.
Structural variants (SV) of 23 barley inbreds, detected by the best combination of SV callers based on short-read sequencing, were associated with genome-wide and gene-specific gene expression and, thus, were evaluated to predict agronomic traits. In human genetics, several studies have shown that phenotypic variation is more likely to be caused by structural variants (SV) than by single nucleotide variants. However, accurate while cost-efficient discovery of SV in complex genomes remains challenging. The objectives of our study were to (i) facilitate SV discovery studies by benchmarking SV callers and their combinations with respect to their sensitivity and precision to detect SV in the barley genome, (ii) characterize the occurrence and distribution of SV clusters in the genomes of 23 barley inbreds that are the parents of a unique resource for mapping quantitative traits, the double round robin population, (iii) quantify the association of SV clusters with transcript abundance, and (iv) evaluate the use of SV clusters for the prediction of phenotypic traits. In our computer simulations based on a sequencing coverage of 25x, a sensitivity > 70% and precision > 95% was observed for all combinations of SV types and SV length categories if the best combination of SV callers was used. We observed a significant (P < 0.05) association of gene-associated SV clusters with global gene-specific gene expression. Furthermore, about 9% of all SV clusters that were within 5 kb of a gene were significantly (P < 0.05) associated with the gene expression of the corresponding gene. The prediction ability of SV clusters was higher compared to that of single-nucleotide polymorphisms from an array across the seven studied phenotypic traits. These findings suggest the usefulness of exploiting SV information when fine mapping and cloning the causal genes underlying quantitative traits as well as the high potential of using SV clusters for the prediction of phenotypes in diverse germplasm sets.
Pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins are active participants of plant defense against biotic and abiotic stresses. The PR-4 family features a Barwin domain at the C-terminus, which endows the host plant with disease resistance. However, comprehensive analysis of PR-4 genes is still lacking in Qingke (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum). Herein, a total of four PR-4 genes were identified from the genome of Qingke through HMM profiling. Devoid of the chitin-binding domain, these 4 proteins were grouped as class II PR-4s. Phylogenic analysis revealed that 127 PR-4s from 47 species were clustered into 3 major groups, among which the four Qingke PR-4s were claded into group I. Analysis of gene structure demonstrated that no intron was found in 3 out of the 4 Qingke PR-4s, and HOVUSG0928500 was the only gene contained one intron. An array of cis-acting motifs were detected in promoters of Qingke PR-4 genes, including elements associated with hormone response, light response, stress response, growth and development processes and binding sites of transcription factors, implying their diverse role. Expression profiling confirmed that Qingke PR-4s were involved in defense response against drought, cold and powdery mildews infection, and transcription of HOVUSG1974300 and HOVUSG5705400 was differentially regulated by MeJA and SA. Findings of the study provided insights into the genetic basis of the PR-4 family genes, and would promote further investigation on protein function and utilization.
Tup1, a conserved transcriptional repressor, plays a critical role in the growth and development of fungi. Here, we identified a BsTup1 gene from the plant pathogenic fungus Bipolaris sorokiniana. The expression of BsTup1 showed a more than three-fold increase during the conidial stage compared with mycelium stage. Deletion of BsTup1 led to decrease hyphal growth and defect in conidia formation. A significant difference was detected in osmotic, oxidative, or cell wall stress responses between the WT and ΔBsTup1 strains. Pathogenicity assays showed that virulence of the ΔBsTup1 mutant was dramatically decreased on wheat and barely leaves. Moreover, it was observed that hyphal tips of the mutants could not form appressorium-like structures on the inner epidermis of onion and barley coleoptile. Yeast two-hybrid assays indicated that BsTup1 could interact with the BsSsn6. RNAseq revealed significant transcriptional changes in the ΔBsTup1 mutant with 2369 genes down-regulated and 2962 genes up-regulated. In these genes, we found that a subset of genes involved in fungal growth, sporulation, cell wall integrity, osmotic stress, oxidation stress, and pathogenicity, which were misregulated in the ΔBsTup1 mutant. These data revealed that BsTup1 has multiple functions in fungal growth, development, stress response and pathogenesis in B. sorokiniana.
Extreme weather events have become more frequent, increasing crop yield fluctuations in many regions and thus the risk to global food security. Breeding crop cultivars with improved tolerance to a combination of abiotic stresses is an effective solution to counter the adverse impact of climate change. The ever-increasing genomic data and analytical tools provide unprecedented opportunities to mine genes with tolerance to multiple abiotic stresses through bioinformatics analysis. We undertook an integrated meta-analysis using 260 transcriptome data of barley related to drought, salt, heat, cold, and waterlogging stresses. A total of 223 shared differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in response to five abiotic stresses, and significantly enriched in 'glutathione metabolism' and 'monoterpenoid biosynthesis' pathways. Using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), we further identified 15 hub genes (e.g., MYB, WRKY, NADH, and GST4) and selected the GST4 gene for functional validation. HvGST4 overexpression in Arabidopsis thaliana enhanced the tolerance to multiple abiotic stresses, likely through increasing the content of glutathione to scavenge reactive oxygen species and alleviate cell membrane peroxidation. Furthermore, we showed that virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) of HvGST4 in barley leaves exacerbated cell membrane peroxidation under five abiotic stresses, reducing tolerance to multiple abiotic stress. Our study provides a new solution for identifying genes with tolerance to multiple abiotic stresses based on meta-analysis, which could contribute to breeding new varieties adapted genetically to adverse environmental conditions.
The hyperosmolality-gated calcium-permeable channels (OSCA) are considered to be osmotic sensors that play an important role in the early stages of hyperosmotic stress response. We analysed the physicochemical properties, chromosome distribution, phylogeny, gene structure and expression pattern of the
Fusarium head blight (FHB) is a devastating disease encountered by spring-grown barley. Traditionally, synthetic chemicals have been used to control this disease on small grain cereals. A move toward biological control agents as part of sustainable agriculture is pertinent due to the evolutionary mechanisms employed by fungal diseases to circumvent current protection strategies. This study evaluated the effect of six lactic acid bacteria isolates on the development of FHB under
Viruses often usurp host machineries for their amplification, but it remains unclear if hosts may subvert virus proteins to regulate viral proliferation. Here, we show that the 17K protein, an important virulence factor conserved in barley yellow dwarf viruses (BYDVs) and related poleroviruses, is phosphorylated by host GRIK1-SnRK1 kinases, with the phosphorylated 17K (P17K) capable of enhancing the abundance of virus-derived small interfering RNAs (vsiRNAs) and thus antiviral RNAi. Furthermore, P17K interacts with barley small RNA-degrading nuclease 1 (HvSDN1) and impedes HvSDN1-catalyzed vsiRNA degradation. Additionally, P17K weakens the HvSDN1-HvAGO1 interaction, thus hindering HvSDN1 from accessing and degrading HvAGO1-carried vsiRNAs. Importantly, transgenic expression of 17K phosphomimetics (17K
Colored barley, which may have associated human health benefits, is more desirable than the standard white variety, but the metabolites and molecular mechanisms underlying seedcoat coloration remain unclear. Here, the development of Tibetan hulless barley was monitored, and 18 biological samples at 3 seedcoat color developmental stages were analyzed by transcriptomic and metabolic assays in Nierumuzha (purple) and Kunlun10 (white). A total of 41 anthocyanin compounds and 4186 DEGs were identified. Then we constructed the proanthocyanin-anthocyanin biosynthesis pathway of Tibetan hulless barley, including 19 genes encoding structural enzymes in 12 classes (PAL, C4H, 4CL, CHS, CHI, F3H, F3'H, DFR, ANS, ANR, GT, and ACT). 11 DEGs other than ANR were significantly upregulated in Nierumuzha as compared to Kunlun10, leading to high levels of 15 anthocyanin compounds in this variety (more than 25 times greater than the contents in Kunlun10). ANR was significantly upregulated in Kunlun10 as compared to Nierumuzha, resulting in higher contents of three anthocyanins compounds (more than 5 times greater than the contents in Nierumuzha). In addition, 22 TFs, including MYBs, bHLHs, NACs, bZips, and WD40s, were significantly positively or negatively correlated with the expression patterns of the structural genes. Moreover, comparisons of homologous gene sequences between the two varieties identified 61 putative SNPs in 13 of 19 structural genes. A nonsense mutation was identified in the coding sequence of the ANS gene in Kunlun10. This mutation might encode a nonfunctional protein, further reducing anthocyanin accumulation in Kunlun10. Then we identified 3 modules were highly specific to the Nierumuzha (purple) using WGCNA. Moreover, 12 DEGs appeared both in the putative proanthocyanin-anthocyanin biosynthesis pathway and the protein co-expression network were obtained and verified. Our study constructed the proanthocyanin-anthocyanin biosynthesis pathway of Tibetan hulless barley. A series of compounds, structural genes and TFs responsible for the differences between purple and white hulless barley were obtained in this pathway. Our study improves the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of anthocyanin accumulation and biosynthesis in barley seeds. It provides new targets for the genetic improvement of anthocyanin content and a framework for improving the nutritional quality of barley.
Amidophosphoribosyltransferase catalyzes the conversion of 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate into 5-phosphoribosyl-1-amine in the de novo purine biosynthetic pathway. Herein, we identified and characterized the functions of MoAde4, an orthologue of yeast Ade4 in Magnaporthe oryzae. MoAde4 is a 537-amino acid protein containing GATase_6 and pribosyltran domains. MoADE4 transcripts were highly expressed during the conidiation, early-infection, and late-infection stages of the fungus. Disruption of the MoADE4 gene resulted in ΔMoade4 exhibiting adenine, adenosine, and hypoxanthine auxotrophy on minimal medium. Conidia quantification assays showed that sporulation was significantly reduced in the ΔMoade4 mutant. The conidia of ΔMoade4 could still form appressoria but mostly failed to penetrate the rice cuticle. Pathogenicity tests showed that ΔMoade4 was completely nonpathogenic on rice and barley leaves, which was attributed to restricted infectious hyphal growth within the primary cells. The ΔMoade4 mutant was defective in the induction of strong host immunity. Exogenous adenine partially rescued conidiation, infectious hyphal growth, and the pathogenicity defects of the ΔMoade4 mutant on barley and rice leaves. Taken together, our results demonstrated that purine nucleotide biosynthesis orchestrated by MoAde4 is required for fungal development and pathogenicity in M. oryzae. These findings therefore act as a suitable target for antifungal development against recalcitrant plant fungal pathogens. KEY POINTS:  MoAde4 is crucial for de novo purine nucleotide biosynthesis.  MoAde4 is pivotal for conidiogenesis and appressorium development of M. oryzae.  MoAde4 is involoved in the pathogenicity of M. oryzae.
Leaf senescence is a developmental process allowing nutrient remobilization to sink organs. We characterized flag leaf senescence at 7, 14, and 21 d past anthesis in two near-isogenic barley lines varying in the allelic state of the HvNAM1 transcription factor gene, which influences senescence timing. Metabolomics and microscopy indicated that, as senescence progressed, thylakoid lipids were transiently converted to neutral lipids accumulating in lipid droplets. Senescing leaves also exhibited an accumulation of sugars including glucose, while nitrogen compounds (nucleobases, nucleotides, and amino acids) decreased. RNA-Seq analysis suggested lipid catabolism via β-oxidation and the glyoxylate cycle, producing carbon skeletons and feeding respiration as a replacement of the diminished carbon supply from photosynthesis. Comparison of the two barley lines highlighted a more prominent up-regulation of heat stress transcription factor- and chaperone-encoding genes in the late-senescing line, suggesting a role for these genes in the control of leaf longevity. While numerous genes with putative roles in nitrogen remobilization were up-regulated in both lines, several peptidases, nucleases, and nitrogen transporters were more highly induced in the early-senescing line; this finding identifies processes and specific candidates which may affect nitrogen remobilization from senescing barley leaves, downstream of the HvNAM1 transcription factor.
Root angle in crops represents a key trait for efficient capture of soil resources. Root angle is determined by competing gravitropic versus antigravitropic offset (AGO) mechanisms. Here we report a root angle regulatory gene termed
Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) is a broad-spectrum plant defense phenomena controlled by the salicylic acid receptor NPR1. Key regulators of the SAR signaling pathway showed great potentials to improve crop resistance to various diseases. In our previous investigation, a barley transcription factor gene HvWRKY6 was identified as downstream of NPR1 during SAR. However, the broad-spectrum resistance features and molecular mechanisms of HvWRKY6 remain to be explored. In this study, a transgenic wheat line exogenously expressing HvWRKY6 showed improved resistance to leaf rust, Fusarium crown rot (FCR), and sharp eyespot. The model pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 was employed to induce the SAR response in wheat plants' leaf region adjacent to the infiltration area. Transcriptome sequencing revealed activation of broad-spectrum defense responses by expressing HvWRKY6 in a pathogen-independent manner. Based on the differentially expressed genes in plant hormone signal transduction, we speculated that the enhanced resistance in HvWRKY6-OE wheat transgenic line was associated with activation of the salicylic acid pathway and suppression of the abscisic acid and jasmonic acid pathways. These findings suggest that the transgenic line HvWRKY6-OE might be applied for the genetic improvement of wheat to several fungal diseases; the underlying resistance mechanism was clarified.
Spectral quality, intensity and period of light modify many regulatory and stress signaling pathways in plants. Both nitrate and sulfate assimilations must be synchronized with photosynthesis, which ensures energy and reductants for these pathways. However, photosynthesis is also a source of reactive oxygen species, whose levels are controlled by glutathione and other antioxidants. In this study, we investigated the effect of supplemental far-red (735 nm) and blue (450 nm) lights on the diurnal expression of the genes related to photoreceptors, the circadian clock, nitrate reduction, glutathione metabolism and various antioxidants in barley. The maximum expression of the investigated four photoreceptor and three clock-associated genes during the light period was followed by the peaking of the transcripts of the three redox-responsive transcription factors during the dark phase, while most of the nitrate and sulfate reduction, glutathione metabolism and antioxidant-enzyme-related genes exhibited high expression during light exposure in plants grown in light/dark cycles for two days. These oscillations changed or disappeared in constant white light during the subsequent two days. Supplemental far-red light induced the activation of most of the studied genes, while supplemental blue light did not affect or inhibited them during light/dark cycles. However, in constant light, several genes exhibited greater expression in blue light than in white and far-red lights. Based on a correlation analysis of the gene expression data, we propose a major role of far-red light in the coordinated transcriptional adjustment of nitrate reduction, glutathione metabolism and antioxidant enzymes to changes of the light spectrum.
Proteins within aphid saliva play a crucial role as the molecular interface between aphids and their host plants. These salivary effectors modulate plant responses to favour aphid feeding and facilitate infestation. The identification of effectors from economically important pest species is central in understanding the molecular events during the aphid-plant interaction. The Russian wheat aphid (Diuraphis noxia, Kurdjumov) is one such pest that causes devastating losses to wheat and barley yields worldwide. Despite the severe threat to food security posed by D. noxia, the non-model nature of this pest and its host has hindered progress towards understanding this interaction. In this study, in the absence of a salivary gland transcriptome, whole-body transcriptomics data was mined to generate a candidate effector catalogue for D. noxia. Mining the transcriptome identified 725 transcripts encoding putatively secreted proteins amongst which were transcripts specific to D. noxia. Six of the seven examined D. noxia putative effectors, termed DnE's (Diuraphis noxia effectors) exhibited salivary gland-specific expression. A comparative analysis between whole-body D. noxia transcriptome data versus the head and body transcriptomes from three other aphid species allowed us to define a catalogue of transcripts putatively upregulated in D. noxia head tissue. Five of these were selected for RT-qPCR confirmation, and were found to corroborate the differential expression predictions, with a further three confirmed to be highly expressed in D. noxia salivary gland tissue. Determining a putative effector catalogue for D. noxia from whole-transcriptome data, particularly the identification of salivary-specific sequences potentially unique to D. noxia, provide the basis for future functional characterisation studies to gain further insight into this aphid-plant interaction. Furthermore, due to a lack of publicly available aphid salivary gland transcriptome data, the capacity to use comparative transcriptomics to compile a list of putative effector candidates from whole-body transcriptomics data will further the study of effectors in various aphid species.
Fermentation by lactic acid bacteria can improve the nutritional value and biological function of cereal. Our previous studies have confirmed that Lactobacillus plantarum fermented barley extract (LFBE) can alleviate obesity caused by high-fat diet (HFD) in rats, while the precise mechanism remains unclear. Herein, we explored the effect of LFBE on the adipose tissue in obese rats and its mechanism via transcriptomics technology. Results showed that administration of LFBE in obese rats for 8 weeks significantly alleviated weight gain, reduced fasting blood glucose, and inhibited lipid accumulation. Transmission electron microscope (TEM) observation of adipose tissue found that LFBE held the ability to maintain mitochondria integrity and functionality. Transcriptomics analysis revealed that LFBE increased the expressions of mitochondrial β-oxidized-related genes, while inhibiting the expressions of fatty acid synthesis-related genes. Furthermore, KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) enrichment analysis and western blotting studies confirmed that LFBE mainly enhanced the energy consumption of adipocytes through the phosphorylation of AMP-Activated Protein Kinase (AMPK) and the mitochondrial proliferation pathway regulated by peroxisome proliferative activated receptor, gamma, coactivator 1 alpha (PGC1α). Taken together, these findings indicated that LFBE could ameliorate HFD-induced obesity by activating AMPK/PGC1α axis regulated signaling pathways.
Fusarium head blight (FHB) caused by Fusarium graminearum (Fg) severely affects cereal crops, especially wheat and barley. FHB results in significant yield loss, reduces grain quality and contaminates grains with mycotoxin. The development of FHB-resistant cereal cultivars can be expedited through CRISPR gene editing. The Arabidopsis ethylene insensitive 2 (AtEIN2) plays a key role in ethylene signaling pathway and is critical for monitoring plant growth and defense responses. RNAi down-regulation of the wheat homolog TaEIN2 has been shown to enhance wheat FHB resistance. Here we generated site-specific mutations in AtEIN2 by CRISPR-editing. Detached inflorescence infection assays revealed that AtEIN2 knock-out (KO) mutants displayed enhanced Fg resistance and substantially reduced Fg spore production in planta. Gene expression profiling of defense genes revealed that impairment of AtEIN2 resulted in down-regulation of the ethylene signaling pathway while the salicylic acid signaling pathway was unaffected. Complementation of AtEIN2-KO plants with a barley orthologue, HvEIN2, restored Fg susceptibility, indicating that HvEIN2 is functionally equivalent to its Arabidopsis counterpart and, hence, may have a similar role in conditioning barley Fg susceptibility. These results provide insight into the defense role of EIN2 and a molecular and functional foundation for manipulating HvEIN2 to enhance FHB resistance in barley.
One major threat to plant cultivation are fungal pathogens, which can cause substantial yield losses in agriculture. As an example, cereal powdery mildew fungi such as the barley (Hordeum vulgare) pathogen, Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh), are among the ten most relevant fungal plant pathogens in molecular plant pathology and can lead to yield losses of up to 30%. Plant Mildew resistance Locus O (MLO) genes are required for successful colonization of plants by powdery mildew fungi. Accordingly, loss-of-function mlo mutants confer durable resistance against powdery mildew fungi in many plant species. In the case of barley, mlo-based resistance has been used for more than 40 years in agriculture without powdery mildew fungi effectively overcoming this kind of immunity. However, the molecular basis of mlo resistance and function(s) of the transmembrane Mlo protein(s) are still incompletely understood. The generation of transgenic barley plants to study the plant immune response and the involvement of Mlo therein is time-consuming and challenging. Therefore, transient gene expression via gene gun-mediated particle bombardment became a popular, easy, and efficient tool to investigate different aspects of plant defense responses in barley. Since Bgh fails to penetrate leaf epidermal cells of mlo mutants, single-cell complementation upon biolistic transformation resulting in (over-)expression of Mlo can be used to characterize the Mlo protein functionally in vivo. In this chapter, we describe in detail the gene gun-mediated transient expression of Mlo in barley leaf epidermal cells followed by powdery mildew inoculation and the subsequent microscopic evaluation. However, gene gun-mediated transient gene expression may be also used to address other research questions or to transform the epidermal tissues of other plant organs and/or species.
There are many challenges facing the development of high-yielding, nutritious crops for future environments. One limiting factor is generation time, which prolongs research and plant breeding timelines. Recent advances in speed breeding protocols have dramatically reduced generation time for many short-day and long-day species by optimizing light and temperature conditions during plant growth. However, winter crops with a vernalization requirement still require up to 6-10 weeks in low-temperature conditions before the transition to reproductive development. Here, we tested a suite of environmental conditions and protocols to investigate whether the vernalization process can be accelerated. We identified a vernalization method consisting of exposing seeds at the soil surface to an extended photoperiod of 22 h day:2 h night at 10°C with transfer to speed breeding conditions that dramatically reduces generation time in both winter wheat (Triticum aestivum) and winter barley (Hordeum vulgare). Implementation of the speed vernalization protocol followed by speed breeding allowed the completion of up to five generations per year for winter wheat or barley, whereas only two generations can be typically completed under standard vernalization and plant growth conditions. The speed vernalization protocol developed in this study has great potential to accelerate biological research and breeding outcomes for winter crops.
Photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) is an important environmental cue inducing the production of many secondary metabolites involved in plant oxidative stress avoidance and tolerance. To examine the complex role of PAR irradiance and specific spectral components on the accumulation of phenolic compounds (PheCs), we acclimated spring barley (
B12D family proteins are transmembrane proteins that contain the B12D domain involved in membrane trafficking. Plants comprise several members of the B12D family, but these members' numbers and specific functions are not determined. This study aims to identify and characterize the members of B12D protein family in plants. Phytozome database was retrieved for B12D proteins from 14 species. The total 66 B12D proteins were analyzed in silico for gene structure, motifs, gene expression, duplication events, and phylogenetics. In general, B12D proteins are between 86 and 98 aa in length, have 2 or 3 exons, and comprise a single transmembrane helix. Motif prediction and multiple sequence alignment show strong conservation among B12D proteins of 11 flowering plants species. Despite that, the phylogenetic tree revealed a distinct cluster of 16 B12D proteins that have high conservation across flowering plants. Motif prediction revealed 41 aa motif conserved in 58 of the analyzed B12D proteins similar to the bZIP motif, confirming that in the predicted biological process and molecular function, B12D proteins are DNA-binding proteins.
The plant cuticle, which covers all aerial parts of plants in their primary developmental stage, is the major barrier against water loss from leaves. Accumulation of cutin and waxes has often been linked to drought tolerance. Here we investigated whether cutin and waxes play a role in the drought adaption of barley mimicked by osmotic stress acting on roots. We compared the cuticle properties of cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare spp. vulgare) with wild barley (Hordeum vulgare spp. spontaneum), and tested whether wax and cutin composition or amount and cuticular transpiration could be future breeding targets for more drought-tolerant barley lines. In response to osmotic stress, accumulation of wax crystals was observed. This coincides with an increased wax and cutin gene expression and a total increase of wax and cutin amounts in leaves, which seems to be a general response triggered through root shoot signalling. Stomatal conductance decreased fast and significantly, whereas cuticular conductance remained unaffected in both wild and cultivated barley. The often-made conclusion that higher amounts of wax and cutin necessarily reduce cuticular transpiration and thus enhance drought tolerance is not always straightforward. To prevent water loss, stomatal regulation under water stress is much more important than regulation or adaptation of cuticular transpiration in response to drought.
Accurate characterisation of splice junctions (SJs) as well as transcription start and end sites in reference transcriptomes allows precise quantification of transcripts from RNA-seq data, and enables detailed investigations of transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation. Using novel computational methods and a combination of PacBio Iso-seq and Illumina short-read sequences from 20 diverse tissues and conditions, we generated a comprehensive and highly resolved barley reference transcript dataset from the European 2-row spring barley cultivar Barke (BaRTv2.18). Stringent and thorough filtering was carried out to maintain the quality and accuracy of the SJs and transcript start and end sites. BaRTv2.18 shows increased transcript diversity and completeness compared with an earlier version, BaRTv1.0. The accuracy of transcript level quantification, SJs and transcript start and end sites have been validated extensively using parallel technologies and analysis, including high-resolution reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and 5'-RACE. BaRTv2.18 contains 39 434 genes and 148 260 transcripts, representing the most comprehensive and resolved reference transcriptome in barley to date. It provides an important and high-quality resource for advanced transcriptomic analyses, including both transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation, with exceptional resolution and precision.
DNA methylation and histone modification enable plants to rapidly adapt to adverse temperature stresses, including low temperature (LT) and high temperature (HT) stress. In this study, we conducted physiological, epigenetic, and transcriptomic analyses of barley seedlings grown under control (22°C), mild low temperature (MLT, 14°C) and HT (38°C) conditions to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms. Compared to MLT, HT implies greater deleterious effects on barley seedlings' growth. The methylation-sensitive amplification polymorphism analysis showed that MLT induced more DNA methylation and HT more DNA demethylation compared to control. Besides, the higher levels of H3K9ac and H3K4me3 under HT compared to MLT stresses might lead to the loosening of chromatin and, subsequently, the activation of gene expression. Consistently, the transcriptome analysis revealed that there were more differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in plants subjected to HT stress than MLT stress compared to control. The common and unique pathways of these DEGs between MLT and HT were also analyzed. Transcription factors, such as ERF, bHLH, NAC, HSF, and MYB, were most involved in MLT and HT stress. The underlying gene regulation networks of epigenetic modulation-related genes were further explored by weight gene co-expression network analysis. Our study provides new insights into the understanding of epigenetic regulation responses to temperature stress in barley, which will lead to improved strategies for the development of cold- and heat-tolerant barley varieties for sustainable barley production in a climate-changing world.
Cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare) is widely used in animal feed, beverages, and foods and has become a model crop for molecular evolutionary studies. Few studies have examined the evolutionary fates of different types of genes in barley during the domestication process. The rates of nonsynonymous substitution (Ka) to synonymous substitution (Ks) were calculated by comparing orthologous genes in different barley groups (wild vs. landrace and landrace vs. improved cultivar). The rates of evolution, properties, expression patterns, and diversity of positively selected genes (PSGs) and negatively selected genes (NSGs) were compared. PSGs evolved more rapidly, possessed fewer exons, and had lower GC content than NSGs; they were also shorter and had shorter intron, exon, and first exon lengths. Expression levels were lower, the tissue specificity of expression was higher, and codon usage bias was weaker for PSGs than for NSGs. Nucleotide diversity analysis revealed that PSGs have undergone a more severe genetic bottleneck than NSGs. Several candidate PSGs were involved in plant growth and development, which might make them as excellent targets for the molecular breeding of barley. Our comprehensive analysis of the evolutionary, structural, and functional divergence between PSGs and NSGs in barley provides new insight into the evolutionary trajectory of barley during domestication. Our findings also aid future functional studies of PSGs in barley.
Spikelets are highly specialized and short-lived branches and function as a constitutional unit of the complex grass inflorescences. A series of genetic, genomic, and developmental studies across different clades of the family have called for and permitted a synthesis on the regulation and evolution of spikelets, and hence inflorescence diversity. Here, we have revisited the identity specification of a spikelet, focusing on the diagnostic features of a spikelet from morphological, developmental, and molecular perspectives. Particularly, recent studies on a collection of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), wheat (Triticum spp.), and rice (Oryza sativa L.) mutants have highlighted a set of transcription factors that are important in the control of spikelet identity and the patterning of floral parts of a spikelet. In addition, we have endeavored to clarify some puzzling issues on the (in)determinacy and modifications of spikelets over the course of evolution. Meanwhile, genomes of two sister taxa of the remaining grass species have again demonstrated the importance of genome duplication and subsequent gene losses on the evolution of spikelets. Accordingly, we argue that changes in the orthologs of spikelet-related genes could be critical for the development and evolution of the spikelet, an evolutionary innovation in the grass family. Likewise, the conceptual discussions on the regulation of a fundamental unit of compound inflorescences could be translated into other organismal groups where compound structures are similarly formed, permitting a comparative perspective on the control of biological complexity.
In our previous study, we reported that arginyl-fructose (AF), one of the Amadori rearrangement compounds (ARCs) produced by the heat processing of Korean ginseng can reduce carbohydrate absorption by inhibiting intestinal carbohydrate hydrolyzing enzymes in both in vitro and in vivo animal models. This reduced absorption of carbohydrate might be helpful to control body weight gain due to excessive carbohydrate consumption and support induced calorie restriction. However, the weight management effect, except for the effect due to anti-hyperglycemic action, along with the potential mechanism of action have not yet been determined. Therefore, the efforts of this study are to investigate and understand the possible weight management effect and mechanism action of AF-enriched barley extracts (BEE). More specifically, the effect of BEE on lipid accumulation and adipogenic gene expression, body weight gain, body weight, plasma lipids, body fat mass, and lipid deposition were evaluated using C57BL/6 mice and 3T3-L1 preadipocytes models. The formation of lipid droplets in the 3T3-L1 treated with BEE (500 and 750 µg/mL) was significantly blocked (p < 0.05 and p < 0.01, respectively). Male C57BL/6 mice were fed a high-fat diet (30% fat) for 8 weeks with BEE (0.3 g/kg-body weight). Compared to the high fat diet control (HFD) group, the cells treated with BEE significantly decreased in intracellular lipid accumulation with concomitant decreases in the expression of key transcription factors, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ), CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (CEBP/α), the mRNA expression of downstream lipogenic target genes such as fatty acid binding protein 4 (FABP4), fatty acid synthase (FAS), and sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c (SREBP-1c). Supplementation of BEE effectively lowered the body weight gain, visceral fat accumulation, and plasma lipid concentrations. Compared to the HFD group, BEE significantly suppressed body weight gain (16.06 ± 2.44 g vs. 9.40 ± 1.39 g, p < 0.01) and increased serum adiponectin levels, significantly, 1.6-folder higher than the control group. These results indicate that AF-enriched barley extracts may prevent diet-induced weight gain and the anti-obesity effect is mediated in part by inhibiting adipogenesis and increasing adiponectin level.
The plant hormones gibberellins (GAs) regulate plant growth and development and are closely related to the yield of cash crops. The GA oxidases (GAoxs), including the GA2ox, GA3ox, and GA20ox subfamilies, play pivotal roles in GAs' biosynthesis and metabolism, but their classification and evolutionary pattern in Gramineae crops remain unclear. We thus conducted a comparative genomic study of
The gene family protein phosphatase 2C (PP2C) is related to developmental processes and stress responses in plants. Barley (
The production of recombinant proteins in seed crops has a long history and cereal grains are now one of the platforms in commercial use. Specific advantages include excellent storage properties, a well-developed endomembrane system with a high biosynthetic capacity and well-established cultivation procedures worldwide. However, the production of transgenic cereals is a time-consuming procedure and the lack of efficient transformation systems is still a significant bottleneck. Barley can be transformed at high efficiency but the protocols are genotype-dependent. Wheat is generally more challenging to transform, but considerable progress has been made in enhancing transformation efficiencies and in controlling transgene expression. In this chapter, we describe and discuss standard procedures for generating transgenic barley and wheat for the production of recombinant proteins.
As one of the US Department of Agriculture-Agricultural Research Service flagship databases, GrainGenes (https://wheat.pw.usda.gov) serves the data and community needs of globally distributed small grains researchers for the genetic improvement of the Triticeae family and Avena species that include wheat, barley, rye and oat. GrainGenes accomplishes its mission by continually enriching its cross-linked data content following the findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable principles, enhancing and maintaining an intuitive web interface, creating tools to enable easy data access and establishing data connections within and between GrainGenes and other biological databases to facilitate knowledge discovery. GrainGenes operates within the biological database community, collaborates with curators and genome sequencing groups and contributes to the AgBioData Consortium and the International Wheat Initiative through the Wheat Information System (WheatIS). Interactive and linked content is paramount for successful biological databases and GrainGenes now has 2917 manually curated gene records, including 289 genes and 254 alleles from the Wheat Gene Catalogue (WGC). There are >4.8 million gene models in 51 genome browser assemblies, 6273 quantitative trait loci and >1.4 million genetic loci on 4756 genetic and physical maps contained within 443 mapping sets, complete with standardized metadata. Most notably, 50 new genome browsers that include outputs from the Wheat and Barley PanGenome projects have been created. We provide an example of an expression quantitative trait loci track on the International Wheat Genome Sequencing Consortium Chinese Spring wheat browser to demonstrate how genome browser tracks can be adapted for different data types. To help users benefit more from its data, GrainGenes created four tutorials available on YouTube. GrainGenes is executing its vision of service by continuously responding to the needs of the global small grains community by creating a centralized, long-term, interconnected data repository. Database URL:https://wheat.pw.usda.gov.
Alterations in DNA methylation levels of ROS, GA and ABA related gene promoters cause transcriptional changes upon imbibition to induce seed germination in barley seeds exposed to heat stress during grain filling. Environmental changes, especially changes in temperature, during seed development affect germination in several plant species. We have previously shown that heat stress during rice grain filling alters DNA methylation, an epigenetic mark important for gene silencing, regulates transcript levels of phytohormone metabolism genes, and delays seed germination. However, whether this phenomenon is present in other plant species remained to be elucidated. In this study, we compared seeds germination of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) plants grown at 15 °C (control) or 25 °C (heat stress) during grain filling. Heat stress during grain filling significantly promoted seed germination in comparison with the control. The phytohormone gibberellic acid (GA) and reactive oxygen species produced by NADPH oxidases promote seed germination, whereas phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) suppresses seed germination. We found that in heat-stressed seeds, genes related to ABA biosynthesis (HvNCED1 and 2) were significantly suppressed, whereas genes related to ABA catabolism (HvABA8'OH) and GA biosynthesis (HvHA20ox, HvGA3ox), and NADPH oxidase (HvRboh) genes were significantly upregulated after imbibition. Using MeDIP-qPCR, we showed that the promoters of HvNCED were hyper-methylated, and those of HvABA8'OH1, HvABA8'OH3, HvGA3ox2, and HvRbohF2 were hypo-methylated in heat treated seeds. Taken together, our data suggest that heat stress during grain filling affects DNA methylation of germination-related genes and promotes seed germination in barley.
Starch phosphorylase (PHO) is a multimeric enzyme with two distinct isoforms: plastidial starch phosphorylase (PHO1) and cytosolic starch phosphorylase (PHO2). PHO1 specifically resides in the plastid, while PHO2 is found in the cytosol. Both play a critical role in the synthesis and degradation of starch. This study aimed to report the detailed structure, function, and evolution of genes encoding PHO1 and PHO2 and their protein ligand-binding sites in eight monocots and four dicots. "True" orthologs of PHO1 and PHO2 of
The transcript levels of the phytoglobin (Pgb) genes Pgb1 and Pgb3, and the protein content of Pgb1 were responsive to anaerobiosis in several tissues of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Oxygen deficiency induced the level of both Pgb transcripts and protein in aleurone layers and coleoptiles, as well as up-regulated both Pgb1 and Pgb3 in leaves, apexes and more strongly in roots of barley seedlings. In O
Pirins are nuclear bicupin proteins, encoded by genes that are one of several gene families that comprise the cupin superfamily in plants.
Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CPKs) play an important role in plant regulation of growth and development, and in the responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. In the present study, we analyzed Moso bamboo (Phyllostachys edulis) CPK genes and their closely related five gene families (Brachypodium distachyon, Hordeum vulgare L., Oryza sativa, Setaria italica, and Zea mays) comprehensively, including phylogenetic relationships, gene structures, and synteny analysis. Thirty Moso bamboo CPKs were divided into four subgroups; in each subgroup, the constituent parts of gene structure were relatively conserved. Furthermore, analysis of expression profiles showed that most PheCPK genes are significantly upregulated under drought and cold stress, especially PheCPK1. Overexpression of PheCPK1 in Arabidopsis reduced plant tolerance to drought stress, as determined through physiological analyses of the relative water content, relative electrical leakage, and malondialdehyde content. It also activated the expressions of stress-related genes. In addition, overexpression of PheCPK1 in Arabidopsis exhibited significantly decreased reactive oxygen species (ROS)-scavenging ability. Taken together, these results suggest that PheCPK1 may act as a negative regulator involved in the drought stress responses.
Leaf rust, caused by Puccinia hordei, is an economically significant disease of barley, but only a few major resistance genes to P. hordei (Rph) have been cloned. In this study, gene Rph3 was isolated by positional cloning and confirmed by mutational analysis and transgenic complementation. The Rph3 gene, which originated from wild barley and was first introgressed into cultivated Egyptian germplasm, encodes a unique predicted transmembrane resistance protein that differs from all known plant disease resistance proteins at the amino acid sequence level. Genetic profiles of diverse accessions indicated limited genetic diversity in Rph3 in domesticated germplasm, and higher diversity in wild barley from the Eastern Mediterranean region. The Rph3 gene was expressed only in interactions with Rph3-avirulent P. hordei isolates, a phenomenon also observed for transcription activator-like effector-dependent genes known as executors conferring resistance to Xanthomonas spp. Like known transmembrane executors such as Bs3 and Xa7, heterologous expression of Rph3 in N. benthamiana induced a cell death response. The isolation of Rph3 highlights convergent evolutionary processes in diverse plant-pathogen interaction systems, where similar defence mechanisms evolved independently in monocots and dicots.
RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) data is by now the most common method to study differential gene expression. Here we present a pipeline from RNA-seq generation to analysis with examples based on our own barley anther and meiocyte transcriptome. The bioinformatics pipeline will give everyone, from a beginner to a more experienced user, the possibility to analyze their datasets and identify significantly differentially expressed genes. It also allows differential alternative splicing analysis which will become increasingly common due to the high regulatory impact on the gene expression. We describe use of the Galaxy interface for RNA-seq read quantification and the 3D RNA-seq app for the downstream data analysis.
It is increasingly apparent that although different genotypes within a species share "core" genes, they also contain variable numbers of "specific" genes and different structures of "core" genes that are only present in a subset of individuals. Using a common reference genome may thus lead to a loss of genotype-specific information in the assembled Reference Transcript Dataset (RTD) and the generation of erroneous, incomplete or misleading transcriptomics analysis results. In this study, we assembled genotype-specific RTD (sRTD) and common reference-based RTD (cRTD) from RNA-seq data of cultivated Barke and Morex barley, respectively. Our quantitative evaluation showed that the sRTD has a significantly higher diversity of transcripts and alternative splicing events, whereas the cRTD missed 40% of transcripts present in the sRTD and it only has ∼70% accurate transcript assemblies. We found that the sRTD is more accurate for transcript quantification as well as differential expression analysis. However, gene-level quantification is less affected, which may be a reasonable compromise when a high-quality genotype-specific reference is not available.
Saechalssal barley is Korea's representative naked waxy barley. This study investigated the anti-diabetic effect of the extract derived from saechalssal and its mechanism. The prethanol extract of saechalssal (SPE) showed greater α-glucosidase inhibitory activity in vitro and a more significant lowering of the postprandial blood glucose levels in normal mice compared to its water extract (SWE). When mice with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) induced by a high-fat diet and streptozotocin were fed SPE (200 mg/kg/day) for six weeks, the fasting blood glucose and serum free fatty acid levels were significantly lower than those of the control group. SPE significantly elevated the hepatic glycogen accumulation with increasing glycogen synthesis-related gene (GYS2 and UGP2) levels compared to the control group. SPE stimulated the expression of the hepatic glycolysis-related genes (GK, PFK1, and PK) and suppressed the gluconeogenesis-related genes (G6Pase, FBP1, and PEPCK). SPE up-regulated the phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and protein kinase B (Akt), whereas it down-regulated the phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) compared to the control. The major flavonoids of SPE were naringin, prunin, and catechin, while its phenolic acids were ferulic acid and vanillic acid. These phytochemical compounds may contribute to the anti-hyperglycemic effects of SPE in diabetes. Overall, these results suggest that SPE has potential anti-diabetic activity through the regulating the PI3K/Akt/GSK3β pathway.
Viral mRNAs that lack a 5' m7GTP cap and a 3' poly-A tail rely on structural elements in their untranslated regions (UTRs) to form unique RNA-protein complexes that regulate viral translation. Recent studies of the barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) have revealed eukaryotic initiation factor 3 (eIF3) plays a significant role in facilitating communication between its 5' and 3' UTRs by binding both UTRs simultaneously. This report uses in vitro translation assays, fluorescence anisotropy binding assays, and selective 2'-hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension (SHAPE) footprinting to identify secondary structures that are selectively interacting with eIF3. SHAPE data also show that eIF3 alters its interaction with BYDV structures when another factor crucial for BYDV translation, eIF4F, is introduced by the 3' BYDV translational enhancer (BTE). The observed BTE and eIF4F-induced shift of eIF3 position on the 5' UTR and the translational effects of altering eIF3-binding structures (SLC and SLII) support a new model for BYDV translation initiation that requires the reorientation of eIF3 on BYDV UTRs. This eIF3 function in BYDV translation initiation is both reminiscent of and distinct from eIF3-RNA interactions found in other non-canonically translating mRNAs (e.g. HCV). This characterization of a new role in translation initiation expands the known functionality of eIF3 and may be broadly applicable to other non-canonically translating mRNAs.
The barley MLA nucleotide-binding leucine-rich-repeat (NLR) receptor and its orthologs confer recognition specificity to many fungal diseases, including powdery mildew, stem-, and stripe rust. We used interolog inference to construct a barley protein interactome (Hordeum vulgare predicted interactome, HvInt) comprising 66,133 edges and 7,181 nodes, as a foundation to explore signaling networks associated with MLA. HvInt was compared with the experimentally validated Arabidopsis interactome of 11,253 proteins and 73,960 interactions, verifying that the 2 networks share scale-free properties, including a power-law distribution and small-world network. Then, by successive layering of defense-specific "omics" datasets, HvInt was customized to model cellular response to powdery mildew infection. Integration of HvInt with expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) enabled us to infer disease modules and responses associated with fungal penetration and haustorial development. Next, using HvInt and infection-time-course RNA sequencing of immune signaling mutants, we assembled resistant and susceptible subnetworks. The resulting differentially coexpressed (resistant - susceptible) interactome is essential to barley immunity, facilitates the flow of signaling pathways and is linked to mildew resistance locus a (Mla) through trans eQTL associations. Lastly, we anchored HvInt with new and previously identified interactors of the MLA coiled coli + nucleotide-binding domains and extended these to additional MLA alleles, orthologs, and NLR outgroups to predict receptor localization and conservation of signaling response. These results link genomic, transcriptomic, and physical interactions during MLA-specified immunity.
Crop adaptation requires matching resource availability to plant development. Tight coordination of the plant cycle with prevailing environmental conditions is crucial to maximizing yield. It is expected that winters in temperate areas will become warmer, so the vernalization requirements of current cultivars can be desynchronized with the environment's vernalizing potential. Therefore, current phenological ideotypes may not be optimum for future climatic conditions. Major genes conferring vernalization sensitivity and phenological responses in barley (
Engineering N2-fixing symbioses between cereals and diazotrophic bacteria represents a promising strategy to sustainably deliver biologically fixed nitrogen (N) in agriculture. We previously developed novel transkingdom signaling between plants and bacteria, through plant production of the bacterial signal rhizopine, allowing control of bacterial gene expression in association with the plant. Here, we have developed both a homozygous rhizopine producing (RhiP) barley line and a hybrid rhizopine uptake system that conveys upon our model bacterium Azorhizobium caulinodans ORS571 (Ac) 103-fold improved sensitivity for rhizopine perception. Using this improved genetic circuitry, we established tight rhizopine-dependent transcriptional control of the nitrogenase master regulator nifA and the N metabolism σ-factor rpoN, which drove nitrogenase expression and activity in vitro and in situ by bacteria colonizing RhiP barley roots. Although in situ nitrogenase activity was suboptimally effective relative to the wild-type strain, activation was specific to RhiP barley and was not observed on the roots of wild-type plants. This work represents a key milestone toward the development of a synthetic plant-controlled symbiosis in which the bacteria fix N2 only when in contact with the desired host plant and are prevented from interaction with nontarget plant species.
The barley cellulose synthase-like F (CslF) genes encode putative cell wall polysaccharide synthases. They are related to the cellulose synthase (CesA) genes involved in cellulose biosynthesis, and the CslD genes that influence root hair development. Although CslD genes are implicated in callose, mannan and cellulose biosynthesis, and are found in both monocots and eudicots, CslF genes are specific to the Poaceae. Recently the barley CslF3 (HvCslF3) gene was shown to be involved in the synthesis of a novel (1,4)-β-linked glucoxylan, but it remains unclear whether this gene contributes to plant growth and development. Here, expression profiling using qRT-PCR and mRNA in situ hybridization revealed that HvCslF3 accumulates in the root elongation zone. Silencing HvCslF3 by RNAi was accompanied by slower root growth, linked with a shorter elongation zone and a significant reduction in root system size. Polymer profiling of the RNAi lines revealed a significant reduction in (1,4)-β-linked glucoxylan levels. Remarkably, the heterologous expression of HvCslF3 in wild-type (Col-0) and root hair-deficient Arabidopsis mutants (csld3 and csld5) complemented the csld5 mutant phenotype, in addition to altering epidermal cell fate. Our results reveal a key role for HvCslF3 during barley root development and suggest that members of the CslD and CslF gene families have similar functions during root growth regulation.
Advances made in genome sequencing projects and structural genomics are generating large repertoire of candidate genes in plants associated with specific agronomic traits. Rapid and high-throughput functional genomics approaches are therefore needed to validate the biological function of these genes especially for agronomically important crops beyond the few model plant species. This can be achieved by utilizing available gene knockout or transgenic methodologies, but these can take considerable time and effort particularly in crops with large and complex genomes such as wheat. Therefore, any tool that expedites the validation of gene function is of particular benefit especially in cereal crop plants that are genetically difficult to transform. One such reverse genetics tool is virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) which relies on the plants' natural antiviral RNA silencing defence mechanism. VIGS is used to downregulate target gene expression in a transient manner which persists long enough to determine its effect on a specific trait. VIGS based on Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) is rapid, powerful, efficient, and relatively inexpensive tool for the analysis of gene function in cereal species. Here we present detailed protocols for BSMV-mediated VIGS for robust gene silencing in bread wheat and related species.
Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is an efficient method for functional characterization of genes in monocot and dicot plants via transient silencing of gene(s) of interest. Among various virus vectors, Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) is established as a vector of choice to silence genes in wheat and barley. BSMV is a single-stranded positive-sense RNA virus with a tripartite genome consisting of α, β, and γ RNAs. BSMV-based VIGS has been used to silence both abiotic and biotic stress response genes in various growth stages of plants. Here we describe an efficient and effective protocol to successfully silence wheat and barley genes expressing in various tissues using this approach.
Drought significantly affects stomatal regulation, leading to the reduced growth and productivity of plants. Plant 14-3-3 proteins were reported to participate in drought response by regulating the activities of a wide array of target proteins. However, the molecular evolution, expression pattern and physiological functions of 14-3-3s under drought stress remain unclear. In this study, a comparative genomic analysis and the tissue-specific expression of 14-3-3s revealed the highly conserved and early evolution of 14-3-3s in green plants and duplication and expansion of the 14-3-3s family members in angiosperms. Using barley (Hordeum vulgare) for the functional characterization of 14-3-3 proteins, the transcripts of five members out of six Hv14-3-3s were highly induced by drought in the drought-tolerant line, XZ141. Suppression of the expression of Hv14-3-3A through barley stripe mosaic virus-virus induced gene silencing resulted in significantly increased drought sensitivity and stomatal density as well as significantly reduced net CO2 assimilation (A) and stomatal conductance (gs) in barley. Moreover, we showed the functional interactions between Hv14-3-3s and key proteins in drought and stomatal responses in plants-such as Open Stomata 1 (HvOST1), Slow Anion Channel 1 (HvSLAC1), three Heat Shock Proteins (HvHSP90-1/2/5) and Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding 3 (HvDREB3). Taken together, we propose that 14-3-3s are highly evolutionarily conserved proteins and that Hv14-3-3s represent a group of the core regulatory components for the rapid stomatal response to drought in barley. This study will provide important evolutionary and molecular evidence for future applications of 14-3-3 proteins in breeding drought-tolerant crops in a changing global climate.
Pollen grains become increasingly independent of the mother plant as they reach maturity through poorly understood developmental programs. We report that the hormone auxin is essential during barley pollen maturation to boost the expression of genes encoding almost every step of heterotrophic energy production pathways. Accordingly, auxin is necessary for the flux of sucrose and hexoses into glycolysis and to increase the levels of pyruvate and two tricarboxylic (TCA) cycle metabolites (citrate and succinate). Moreover, bioactive auxin is synthesized by the pollen-localized enzyme HvYUCCA4, supporting that pollen grains autonomously produce auxin to stimulate a specific cellular output, energy generation, that fuels maturation processes such as starch accumulation. Our results demonstrate that auxin can shift central carbon metabolism to drive plant cell development, which suggests a direct mechanism for auxin's ability to promote growth and differentiation.
The results of our previous study showed that the structure and function of β-glucan in barley were changed after fermentation by L.
The circadian clock helps organisms to anticipate and coordinate gene regulatory responses to changes in environmental stimuli. Under stresses, both time of day and the circadian clock closely control the magnitude of plant responses. The identification of clock-regulated genes is, therefore, important when studying the influence of environmental factors. Here, we present CAST-R (Circadian And heat STress-Responsive), a "Shiny" application that allows users to identify and visualize circadian and heat stress-responsive genes in plants. More specifically, users can generate and export profiles and heatmaps representing transcript abundance of a single or of multiple Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genes over a 24-h time course, in response to heat stress and during recovery following the stress. The application also takes advantage of published Arabidopsis chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing datasets to visualize the connections between clock proteins and their targets in an interactive network. In addition, CAST-R offers the possibility to perform phase (i.e. timing of expression) enrichment analyses for rhythmic datasets from any species, within and beyond plants. This functionality combines statistical analyses and graphical representations to identify significantly over- and underrepresented phases within a subset of genes. Lastly, profiles of transcript abundance can be visualized from multiple circadian datasets generated in Arabidopsis, Brassica rapa, barley (Hordeum vulgare), and rice (Oryza sativa). In summary, CAST-R is a user-friendly interface that allows the rapid identification of circadian and stress-responsive genes through multiple modules of visualization. We anticipate that this tool will make it easier for users to obtain temporal and dynamic information on genes of interest that links plant responses to environmental signals.
CCCH transcription factors are important zinc finger transcription factors involved in the response to biotic and abiotic stress and physiological and developmental processes. Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is an agriculturally important cereal crop with multiple uses, such as brewing production, animal feed, and human food. The identification and assessment of new functional genes are important for the molecular breeding of barley. In this study, a total of 53 protein-encoding CCCH genes unevenly dispersed on seven different chromosomes were identified in barley. Phylogenetic analysis categorized the barley CCCH genes (HvC3Hs) into eleven subfamilies according to their distinct features, and this classification was supported by intron-exon structure and conserved motif analysis. Both segmental and tandem duplication contributed to the expansion of CCCH gene family in barley. Genetic variation of HvC3Hs was characterized using publicly available exome-capture sequencing datasets. Clear genetic divergence was observed between wild and landrace barley populations in HvC3H genes. For most HvC3Hs, nucleotide diversity and the number of haplotype polymorphisms decreased during barley domestication. Furthermore, the HvC3H genes displayed distinct expression profiles for different developmental processes and in response to various types of stresses. The HvC3H1, HvC3H2 and HvC3H13 of arginine-rich tandem CCCH zinc finger (RR-TZF) genes were significantly induced by multiple types of abiotic stress and/or phytohormone treatment, which might make them as excellent targets for the molecular breeding of barley. Overall, our study provides a comprehensive characterization of barley CCCH transcription factors, their diversity, and their biological functions.
In this study, a range of barley allelic mutants lost ADPG binding structure of starch synthase IIa (SSIIa) were created through targeted mutagenesis of SSIIa by RNA-guided Cas9. The transcriptomic and qRT-PCR results showed the increased mRNA expression of HvGBSSI and the decreased HvSSIIa and HvSBEI levels in ssIIa mutant grains, which were consistent with the expressions of GBSSI, SSS and SBE enzymatic activities, respectively. However, the increased expressions of HvSSI cannot effectively compensate for the loss of HvSSIIa. The metabolic pathway analysis showed that the mutation of SSIIa led to increased ADP-glucose synthesis in barley grains. The ssIIa mutant grains had two and six times amylose, and RS contents in control grains, respectively, and significantly changed starch structure and functions compared to the controls. No metabolite changes could compensate for the decrease of starch biosynthesis in the ssIIa null mutant.
Blufensin1 (Bln1) has been identified as a susceptibility factor of basal defense mechanisms which is unique to the cereal grain crops barley (Hordeum vulgare), wheat (Triticum aestivum), rice (Oryza sativa), and rye (Secale cereale). However, the molecular mechanisms through which Bln1 regulates the wheat immune response are poorly understood. In this study, we found that TaBln1 was significantly induced by Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici (Pst) virulent race CYR31 infection. Knockdown of TaBln1 expression by virus-induced gene silencing reduced Pst growth and development, and enhanced the host defense response. In addition, TaBln1 was found to physically interact with a calmodulin, TaCaM3, on the plasma membrane. Silencing TaCaM3 with virus-induced gene silencing increased fungal infection areas and sporulation and reduced wheat resistance to the Pst avirulent race CYR23 (incompatible interaction) and virulent race CYR31 (compatible interaction). Moreover, we found that the accumulation of TaCaM3 transcripts could be induced by treatment with chitin but not flg22. Silencing TaCaM3 decreased the calcium (Ca2+) influx induced by chitin, but silencing TaBln1 increased the Ca2+ influx in vivo using a noninvasive micro-test technique. Taken together, we identified the wheat susceptibility factor TaBln1, which interacts with TaCaM3 to impair Ca2+ influx and inhibit plant defenses.
In accordance with a key role of WHIRLY1 in light-acclimation mechanisms, typical features of acclimation to high light, including photosynthesis and leaf morphology, are compromised in WHIRLY1 deficient plants. Acclimation to the environment requires efficient communication between chloroplasts and the nucleus. Previous studies indicated that the plastid-nucleus located WHIRLY1 protein is required for the communication between plastids and the nucleus in situations of high light exposure. To investigate the consequences of WHIRLY1 deficiency on the light acclimation of photosynthesis and leaf anatomy, transgenic barley plants with an RNAi-mediated knockdown of HvWHIRLY1 were compared to wild-type plants when growing at low and high irradiance. While wild-type plants showed the typical light acclimation responses, i.e. higher photosynthetic capacity and thicker leaves, the WHIRLY1 deficient plants were not able to respond to differences in irradiance. The results revealed a systemic role of WHIRLY1 in light acclimation by coordinating responses at the level of the chloroplast and the level of leaf morphology.
Genomic prediction (GP) based on single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) has become a broadly used tool to increase the gain of selection in plant breeding. However, using predictors that are biologically closer to the phenotypes such as transcriptome and metabolome may increase the prediction ability in GP. The objectives of this study were to (i) assess the prediction ability for three yield-related phenotypic traits using different omic datasets as single predictors compared to a SNP array, where these omic datasets included different types of sequence variants (full-SV, deleterious-dSV, and tolerant-tSV), different types of transcriptome (expression presence/absence variation-ePAV, gene expression-GE, and transcript expression-TE) sampled from two tissues, leaf and seedling, and metabolites (M); (ii) investigate the improvement in prediction ability when combining multiple omic datasets information to predict phenotypic variation in barley breeding programs; (iii) explore the predictive performance when using SV, GE, and ePAV from simulated 3'end mRNA sequencing of different lengths as predictors. The prediction ability from genomic best linear unbiased prediction (GBLUP) for the three traits using dSV information was higher than when using tSV, all SV information, or the SNP array. Any predictors from the transcriptome (GE, TE, as well as ePAV) and metabolome provided higher prediction abilities compared to the SNP array and SV on average across the three traits. In addition, some (di)-similarity existed between different omic datasets, and therefore provided complementary biological perspectives to phenotypic variation. Optimal combining the information of dSV, TE, ePAV, as well as metabolites into GP models could improve the prediction ability over that of the single predictors alone. The use of integrated omic datasets in GP model is highly recommended. Furthermore, we evaluated a cost-effective approach generating 3'end mRNA sequencing with transcriptome data extracted from seedling without losing prediction ability in comparison to the full-length mRNA sequencing, paving the path for the use of such prediction methods in commercial breeding programs.
Understanding the molecular network, including protein-protein interactions, of VRS5 provide new routes towards the identification of other key regulators of plant architecture in barley. The TCP transcriptional regulator TEOSINTE BRANCHED 1 (TB1) is a key regulator of plant architecture. In barley, an important cereal crop, HvTB1 (also referred to as VULGARE SIX-ROWED spike (VRS) 5), inhibits the outgrowth of side shoots, or tillers, and grains. Despite its key role in barley development, there is limited knowledge on the molecular network that is utilized by VRS5. In this work, we performed protein-protein interaction studies of VRS5. Our analysis shows that VRS5 potentially interacts with a diverse set of proteins, including other class II TCP's, NF-Y TF, but also chromatin remodelers. Zooming in on the interaction capacity of VRS5 with other TCP TFs shows that VRS5 preferably interacts with other class II TCP TFs in the TB1 clade. Induced mutagenesis through CRISPR-Cas of one of the putative VRS5 interactors, HvTB2 (also referred to as COMPOSITUM 1 and BRANCHED AND INDETERMINATE SPIKELET 1), resulted in plants that have lost their characteristic unbranched spike architecture. More specifically, hvtb2 mutants exhibited branches arising at the main spike, suggesting that HvTB2 acts as inhibitor of branching. Our protein-protein interaction studies of VRS5 resulted in the identification of HvTB2 as putative interactor of VRS5, another key regulator of spike architecture in barley. The study presented here provides a first step to underpin the protein-protein interactome of VRS5 and to identify other, yet unknown, key regulators of barley plant architecture.
High temperature shock is becoming increasingly common in our climate, affecting plant growth and productivity. The ability of a plant to survive stress is a complex phenomenon. One of the essential tissues for plant performance under various environmental stimuli is the crown. However, the molecular characterization of this region remains poorly investigated. Gibberellins play a fundamental role in whole-plant stature formation. This study identified plant stature modifications and crown-specific transcriptome re-modeling in gibberellin-deficient barley sdw1.a (BW827) and sdw1.d (BW828) mutants exposed to increased temperature. The deletion around the sdw1 gene in BW827 was found to encompass at least 13 genes with primarily regulatory functions. A bigger genetic polymorphism of BW828 than of BW827 in relation to wild type was revealed. Transcriptome-wide sequencing (RNA-seq) revealed several differentially expressed genes involved in gibberellin metabolism and heat response located outside of introgression regions. It was found that HvGA20ox4, a paralogue of the HvGA20ox2 gene, was upregulated in BW828 relative to other genotypes, which manifested as basal internode elongation. The transcriptome response to elevated temperature differed in the crown of sdw1.a and sdw1.d mutants; it was most contrasting for HvHsf genes upregulated under elevated temperature in BW828, whereas those specific to BW827 were downregulated. In-depth examination of sdw1 mutants revealed also some differences in their phenotypes and physiology. We concluded that despite the studied sdw1 mutants being genetically related, their heat response seemed to be genotype-specific and observed differences resulted from genetic background diversity rather than single gene mutation, multiple gene deletion, or allele-specific expression of the HvGA20ox2 gene. Differences in the expressional reaction of genes to heat in different sdw1 mutants, found to be independent of the polymorphism, could be further explained by in-depth studies of the regulatory factors acting in the studied system. Our findings are particularly important in genetic research area since molecular response of crown tissue has been marginally investigated, and can be useful for wide genetic research of crops since barley has become a model plant for them.
Grains are the major sink of phosphorus (P) in cereal crops, accounting for 60-85% of total plant P, but the mechanisms underlying P loading into the grains are poorly understood. We functionally characterized a transporter gene required for the distribution of P to the grains in barley (Hordeum vulgare), HvSPDT (SULTR-like phosphorus distribution transporter). HvSPDT encoded a plasma membrane-localized Pi/H
Dehydrins (DHNs) belong to the LEA (late embryogenesis abundant) family group II, that comprise four conserved motifs (the Y-, S-, F-, and K-segments) and are known to play a multifunctional role in plant stress tolerance. Based on the presence and order of these segments, dehydrins are divided into six subclasses: YnSKn, FnSKn, YnKn, SKn, Kn, and KnS. DHNs are rarely studied in halophytes, and their contribution to the mechanisms developed by these plants to survive in extreme conditions remains unknown. In this work, we carried out multiple genomic analyses of the conservation of halophytic DHN sequences to discover new segments, and examine their architectures, while comparing them with their orthologs in glycophytic plants. We performed an in silico analysis on 86 DHN sequences from 10 halophytic genomes. The phylogenetic tree showed that there are different distributions of the architectures among the different species, and that FSKn is the only architecture present in every plant studied. It was found that K-, F-, Y-, and S-segments are highly conserved in halophytes and glycophytes with a few modifications, mainly involving charged amino acids. Finally, expression data collected for three halophytic species (
Grain disarticulation in wild progenitor of wheat and barley evolved through a local duplication event followed by neo-functionalization resulting from changes in location of gene expression. One of the most critical events in the process of cereal domestication was the loss of the natural mode of grain dispersal. Grain dispersal in barley is controlled by two major genes, Btr1 and Btr2, which affect the thickness of cell walls around the disarticulation zone. The barley genome also encodes Btr1-like and Btr2-like genes, which have been shown to be the ancestral copies. While Btr and Btr-like genes are non-redundant, the biological function of Btr-like genes is unknown. We explored the potential biological role of the Btr-like genes by surveying their expression profile across 212 publicly available transcriptome datasets representing diverse organs, developmental stages and stress conditions. We found that Btr1-like and Btr2-like are expressed exclusively in immature anther samples throughout Prophase I of meiosis within the meiocyte. The similar and restricted expression profile of these two genes suggests they are involved in a common biological function. Further analysis revealed 141 genes co-expressed with Btr1-like and 122 genes co-expressed with Btr2-like, with 105 genes in common, supporting Btr-like genes involvement in a shared molecular pathway. We hypothesize that the Btr-like genes play a crucial role in pollen development by facilitating the formation of the callose wall around the meiocyte or in the secretion of callase by the tapetum. Our data suggest that Btr genes retained an ancestral function in cell wall modification and gained a new role in grain dispersal due to changes in their spatial expression becoming spike specific after gene duplication.
Soil salinity is an important environmental factor affecting physiological processes in plants. It is possible to limit the negative effects of salt through the exogenous application of microelements. Silicon (Si) is widely recognized as an element improving plant resistance to abiotic and biotic stresses. The aim of the research was to determine the impact of foliar application of Si on the photosynthetic apparatus, gas exchange and DNA methylation of barley (
Abscisic acid (ABA) is a major phytohormone that regulates various processes in plants (e.g., seed dormancy/germination, abiotic/biotic stress responses). As protein phosphorylation is involved in the major pathways of ABA signaling, it is necessary to elucidate the phosphosignaling pathway involved in the ABA response. Phosphoproteomics enables determination of the proteins phosphorylated in vivo, and recent studies have applied a comparative phosphoproteomic approach to analyze ABA signaling in plants. For example, ABA-responsive phosphoproteins were identified in barley embryos. Furthermore, a phosphoproteomic approach is useful for screening protein kinase substrates by comparative analysis using kinase knockout mutants. Here, some technical points regarding phosphoproteomic analyses of ABA responses in plants are described.
For translational genomics, a roadmap is needed to know the molecular similarities or differences between species, such as model species and crop species. This knowledge is invaluable for the selection of target genes and pathways to alter downstream in response to the same stimuli. Here, the transcriptomic responses to six treatments including hormones (abscisic acid - ABA and salicylic acid - SA); treatments that cause oxidative stress (3-amino-1,2,4-triazole - 3AT, methyl viologen - MV); inhibit respiration (antimycin A - AA) or induce genetic damage (ultraviolet radiation -UV) were analysed and compared between Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), barley (Hordeum vulgare) and rice (Oryza sativa). Common and opposite responses were identified between species, with the number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) varying greatly between treatments and species. At least 70% of DEGs overlapped with at least one other treatment within a species, indicating overlapping response networks. Remarkably, 15 to 34% of orthologous DEGs showed opposite responses between species, indicating diversity in responses, despite orthology. Orthologous DEGs with common responses to multiple treatments across the three species were correlated with experimental data showing the functional importance of these genes in biotic/abiotic stress responses. The mitochondrial dysfunction response was revealed to be highly conserved in all three species in terms of responsive genes and regulation via the mitochondrial dysfunction element. The orthologous DEGs that showed a common response between species indicate conserved transcriptomic responses of these pathways between species. However, many genes, including prominent salt-stress responsive genes, were oppositely responsive in multiple-stresses, highlighting fundamental differences in the responses and regulation of these genes between species. This work provides a resource for translation of knowledge or functions between species.
Elongation factor TFIIS (transcription factor IIS) is structurally and biochemically probably the best characterized elongation cofactor of RNA polymerase II. However, little is known about TFIIS regulation or its roles during stress responses. Here, we show that, although TFIIS seems unnecessary under optimal conditions in Arabidopsis, its absence renders plants supersensitive to heat; tfIIs mutants die even when exposed to sublethal high temperature. TFIIS activity is required for thermal adaptation throughout the whole life cycle of plants, ensuring both survival and reproductive success. By employing a transcriptome analysis, we unravel that the absence of TFIIS makes transcriptional reprogramming sluggish, and affects expression and alternative splicing pattern of hundreds of heat-regulated transcripts. Transcriptome changes indirectly cause proteotoxic stress and deterioration of cellular pathways, including photosynthesis, which finally leads to lethality. Contrary to expectations of being constantly present to support transcription, we show that TFIIS is dynamically regulated. TFIIS accumulation during heat occurs in evolutionary distant species, including the unicellular alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, dicot Brassica napus and monocot Hordeum vulgare, suggesting that the vital role of TFIIS in stress adaptation of plants is conserved.
Nicotianamine (NA), 2'-deoxymugineic acid (DMA), and mugineic acid (MA) are chelators required for iron uptake and transport in plants. Nicotianamine aminotransferase (NAAT), 2'-deoxymugineic acid synthase (DMAS), transporter of MAs (TOM), and efflux transporter of NA (ENA) are involved in iron uptake and transport in rice (Oryza sativa), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and barley (Hordeum vulgare); however, these families have not been fully identified and comprehensively analyzed in maize (Zea mays L.). Here, we identified 5 ZmNAAT, 9 ZmDMAS, 11 ZmTOM, and 2 ZmENA genes by genome mining. RNA-sequencing and quantitative real-time PCR analysis revealed that these genes are expressed in various tissues and respond differently to high and low iron conditions. In particular, iron deficiency stimulated the expression of ZmDMAS1, ZmTOM1, ZmTOM3, and ZmENA1. Furthermore, we determined protein subcellular localization by transient expression of green fluorescent protein fusions in maize mesophyll protoplasts. ZmNAAT1, ZmNAAT-L4, ZmDMAS1, and ZmDMAS-L1 localized in the cytoplasm, whereas ZmTOMs and ZmENAs targeted to plasma and tonoplast membranes, endomembranes, and vesicles. Our results suggest that the different gene expression profiles and subcellular localizations of ZmNAAT, ZmDMAS, ZmTOM, and ZmENA family members may enable specific regulation of phytosiderophore metabolism in different tissues and under different external conditions, shedding light on iron homeostasis in maize and providing candidate genes for breeding iron-rich maize varieties.
The mechanisms of action responsible for the reported hypolipidemic activity of barley sprouts have yet to be elucidated. The objective of this study was to compare the content of saponarin (the sole flavonoid present in barley sprout leaves), hypolipidemic activity between barley sprout water extract (BSW) and barley sprout ethanol extract (BSE), and the associated relevance to hypolipidemic activity in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes. BSW elicited superior antiadipogenic effects when compared with BSE in MDI mixture [IBMX 0.5 mM + dexamethasone 1
Although great progress has been achieved regarding wheat genetic transformation technology in the past decade
Global gene co-expression networks (GCNs) are powerful tools for functional genomics whereby putative functions and regulatory mechanisms can be inferred by gene co-expression. Cereal crops, such as Hordeum vulgare (barley) and Sorghum bicolor (sorghum), are among the most important plants to civilization. However, co-expression network tools for these plants are lacking. Here, we have constructed global GCNs for barley and sorghum using existing RNA-seq data sets. Meta-information was manually curated and categorized by tissue type to also build tissue-specific GCNs. To enable GCN searching and visualization, we implemented a website and database named PlantNexus. PlantNexus is freely available at https://plantnexus.ohio.edu/.
Nitrogen is a major determinant of grain yield and quality. As excessive use of nitrogen fertilizer leads to environmental pollution and high production costs, improving nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) is fundamental for a sustainable agriculture. Here, we dissected the role of the barley abnormal cytokinin response1 repressor 1 (HvARE1) gene, a candidate for involvement in NUE previously identified in a genome-wide association study, through natural variation analysis and clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (Cas9)-mediated gene editing. HvARE1 was predominantly expressed in leaves and shoots, with very low expression in roots under low nitrogen conditions. Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation of immature embryos (cv. Golden Promise) with single guide RNAs targeting HvARE1 generated 22 T
Potassium (K) is the most abundant cation in plants, playing an important role in osmoregulation. Little is known about the effect of genotypic variation in the tolerance to osmotic stress under different K treatments in barley. In this study, we measured the interactive effects of osmotic stress and K supply on growth and stress responses of two barley cultivars (
Plants are frequently exposed to various abiotic stresses, including aluminum, cadmium and salinity stress. Barley (
Brassinosteroids (BRs) control many plant developmental processes by regulating different groups of transcription factors, and consequently gene expressions. The most known is BZR1, the main member of the BES1 family. However, to date, it is poorly characterized in crop species. The main goal of the presented study was to identify
Root hairs play a crucial role in anchoring plants in soil, interaction with microorganisms and nutrient uptake from the rhizosphere. In contrast to Arabidopsis, there is a limited knowledge of root hair morphogenesis in monocots, including barley (
Already a short-term Cd treatment induces changes in gene expression in barley root tips via IAA and ROS signaling during mild and severe Cd stress, respectively. Even a short, 30 min, Cd treatment of roots induced a considerable alteration in gene expression in the barley root tips within an hour after the treatments. The very early activation of MYB1 transcription factor expression is partially regulated by auxin signaling in mildly stressed seedlings. An increase in allene oxide cyclase and NADPH oxidase expression was a distinguishing feature of root tips response to mild Cd stress and their expression is activated via IAA signaling. Meanwhile, early changes in the level of dehydrin transcripts were detected in moderately and severely stressed root tips, and their induction is related to altered ROS homeostasis in cells. The early activation of glutathione peroxidase expression by mild Cd stress indicates the involvement of IAA in the signaling process. In contrast, early ascorbate peroxidase expression was induced only with Cd treatment causing severe stress and ROS play central roles in its induction. The expression of cysteine protease was activated similarly in both mildly and severely Cd-stressed roots; consequently, both increased IAA and ROS levels take part in the regulation of cysteine protease expression. The Cd-evoked accumulation of BAX Inhibitor-1 mRNA was characteristic for moderately and severely stressed roots. Whereas decreased IAA level did not affect its expression, rotenone-mediated ROS depletion markedly reduced the Cd-induced expression of BAX Inhibitor-1. An early increase of alternative oxidase levels in the root tip cells indicated that the reduction of mitochondrial superoxide generation is an important component of barley root response to severe Cd stress.
Tiller formation is a key agronomic determinant for grain yield in cereal crops. The modulation of this trait is controlled by transcriptional regulators and plant hormones, tightly regulated by external environmental conditions. While endogenous (genetic) and exogenous (environmental factors) triggers for tiller formation have mostly been investigated separately, it has remained elusive how they are integrated into the developmental program of this trait. The transcription factor gene INTERMEDIUM-C (INT-C), which is the barley ortholog of the maize domestication gene TEOSINTE BRANCHED1 (TB1), has a prominent role in regulating tiller bud outgrowth. Here we show that INT-C is expressed in tiller buds, required for bud growth arrest in response to shade. In contrast to wild-type plants, int-c mutant plants are impaired in their shade response and do not stop tiller production after shading. Gene expression levels of INT-C are up-regulated under light-limiting growth conditions, and down-regulated after decapitation. Transcriptome analysis of wild-type and int-c buds under control and shading conditions identified target genes of INT-C that belong to auxin and gibberellin biosynthesis and signaling pathways. Our study identifies INT-C as an integrator of the shade response into tiller formation, which is prerequisite for implementing shading responses in the breeding of cereal crops.
Keeping the significance of potassium (K) nutrition in focus, this study explores the genotypic responses of two wild Tibetan barley genotypes (drought tolerant XZ5 and drought sensitive XZ54) and one drought tolerant barley
Drought affects plant growth and development, causing severe yield losses, especially in cereal crops. The identification of genes involved in drought tolerance is crucial for the development of drought-tolerant crops. The aim of this study was to identify genes that are conserved key players for conferring drought tolerance in cereals. By comparing the transcriptomic changes between tolerant and susceptible genotypes in four Gramineae species, we identified 69 conserved drought tolerant-related (CDT) genes that are potentially involved in the drought tolerance of all of the analysed species. The CDT genes are principally involved in stress response, photosynthesis, chlorophyll biogenesis, secondary metabolism, jasmonic acid signalling, and cellular transport. Twenty CDT genes are not yet characterized and can be novel candidates for drought tolerance. The k-means clustering analysis of expression data highlighted the prominent roles of photosynthesis and leaf senescence-related mechanisms in differentiating the drought response between tolerant and sensitive genotypes. In addition, we identified specific transcription factors that could regulate the expression of photosynthesis and leaf senescence-related genes. Our analysis suggests that the balance between the induction of leaf senescence and maintenance of photosynthesis during drought plays a major role in tolerance. Fine-tuning of CDT gene expression modulation by specific transcription factors can be the key to improving drought tolerance in cereals.
The Agrobacterium mediated transformation has been routinely used in lots of plant species as a powerful tool to deliver genes of interest into a host plant. However, the transformation of elite and commercially valuable cultivar is still limited by the genotype-dependency, and the efficiency of Agrobacterium infection efficiency is crucial for the success of transformation. In this study, the microspore-derived embryogenic calli (MDEC) of barley elite cultivars and breeding lines were employed as unique subjects to characterize the genotypic response during Agrobacterium infection process. Our results identified compatible barley genotypes (GanPi 6 and L07, assigned as GP6-L07 group) and one recalcitrant genotype (Hong 99, assigned as H99) for the Agrobacterium strain LBA4404 infection using GUS assay. The accumulation trend of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was similar among genotypes across the time course. The results of RNA-seq depicted that the average expressional intensity of whole genomic genes was similar among barley genotypes during Agrobacterium infection. However, the numbers of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) exhibited significant expressional variation between GP6-L07 and H99 groups from 6 to 12 h post-inoculation (hpi). Gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis revealed different regulation patterns for the predicted biological processes between the early (up-regulated DEGs overrepresented at 2 hpi) and late stages (down-regulated DEGs overrepresented from 6 to 24 hpi) of infection. KEGG analysis predicted 12 pathways during Agrobacterium infection. Among which one pathway related to pyruvate metabolism was enriched in GP6 and L07 at 6 hpi. Two pathways related to plant hormone signal transduction and DNA replication showed expressional variation between GP6-L07 and H99 at 24 hpi. It was further validated by qRT-PCR assay for seven candidate genes (Aldehyde dehydrogenase, SAUR, SAUR50, ARG7, Replication protein A, DNA helicase and DNA replication licensing factor) involved in the three pathways, which are all up-regulated in compatible while down-regulated in recalcitrant genotypes, suggesting the potential compatibility achieved at later stage for the growth of Agrobacterium infected cells. Our findings demonstrated the similarity and difference between compatible and recalcitrant genotypes of barley MDEC upon Agrobacterium infection. Seven candidate genes involved in pyruvate metabolism, hormonal signal transduction and DNA replication were identified, which advocates the genotypic dependency during Agrobacterium infection process.
Investigation of the genetic basis of traits or clinical outcomes heavily relies on identifying relevant variables in molecular data. However, characteristics such as high dimensionality and complex correlation structures of these data hinder the development of related methods, resulting in the inclusion of false positives and negatives. We developed a variable importance measure method, termed the ECAR scores, that evaluates the importance of variables in the dataset. Based on this score, ranking and selection of variables can be achieved simultaneously. Unlike most current approaches, the ECAR scores aim to rank the influential variables as high as possible while maintaining the grouping property, instead of selecting the ones that are merely predictive. The ECAR scores' performance is tested and compared to other methods on simulated, semi-synthetic, and real datasets. Results showed that the ECAR scores improve the CAR scores in terms of accuracy of variable selection and high-rank variables' predictive power. It also outperforms other classic methods such as lasso and stability selection when there is a high degree of correlation among influential variables. As an application, we used the ECAR scores to analyze genes associated with forced expiratory volume in the first second in patients with lung cancer and reported six associated genes.
Plants activate biochemical responses to combat stress. (Hemi-)biotrophic pathogens are fended off by systemic acquired resistance (SAR), a primed state allowing plants to respond faster and more strongly upon subsequent infection. Here, we show that SAR-like defences in barley (Hordeum vulgare) are propagated between neighbouring plants, which respond with enhanced resistance to the volatile cues from infected senders. The emissions of the sender plants contained 15 volatile organic compounds (VOCs) associated with infection. Two of these, β-ionone and nonanal, elicited resistance upon plant exposure. Whole-genome transcriptomics analysis confirmed that interplant propagation of defence in barley is established as a form of priming. Although gene expression changes were more pronounced after challenge infection of the receiver plants with Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei, differential gene expression in response to the volatile cues of the sender plants included an induction of HISTONE DEACETYLASE 2 (HvHDA2) and priming of TETRATRICOPEPTIDE REPEAT-LIKE superfamily protein (HvTPL). Because HvHDA2 and HvTPL transcript accumulation was also enhanced by exposure of barley to β-ionone and nonanal, our data identify both genes as possible defence/priming markers in barley. Our results suggest that VOCs and plant-plant interactions are relevant for possible crop protection strategies priming defence responses in barley.
In this study, the effects of exogenous MT on phenolic acids biosynthesis and the response to NaCl stress in germinating barley were investigated to explicate the role and molecular mechanism of MT in the regulation of phenolic acids and biomass under salt stress. Results showed that exogenous MT increased the gene expression and activities of phenylalanine ammonia lyase and cinnamate 4-hydroxylase involved in phenols biosynthesis. As a result, phenolic acids contents significantly increased, and ferulic acid, p-coumaric acid and p-hydroxybenzoic acid were mostly induced by exogenous MT treatment. Meanwhile, exogenous MT application reduced the damage of NaCl stress, including promotion sprout growth, biomass and Ca
Barley yellow mosaic disease (BYMD) caused by Barley yellow mosaic virus (BaYMV) and Barley mild mosaic virus (BaMMV) seriously threatens the production of winter barley. Cultivating and promoting varieties that carry disease-resistant genes is one of the most powerful ways to minimize the disease's effect on yield. However, as the BYMD virus mutates rapidly, resistance conferred by the two cloned R genes to the virus had been overcome by new virus strains. There is an urgent need for novel resistance genes in barley that convey sustainable resistance to newly emerging virus strains causing BYMD. A doubled haploid (DH) population derived from a cross of SRY01 (BYMD resistant wild barley) and Gairdner (BYMD susceptible barley cultivar) was used to explore for QTL of resistance to BYMD in barley. A total of six quantitative trait loci (qRYM-1H, qRYM-2Ha, qRYM-2Hb, qRYM-3H, qRYM-5H, and qRYM-7H) related to BYMD resistance were detected, which were located on chromosomes 1H, 2H, 3H, 5H, and 7H. Both qRYM-1H and qRYM-2Ha were detected in all environments. qRYM-1H was found to be overlapped with rym7, a known R gene to the disease, whereas qRYM-2Ha is a novel QTL on chromosome 2H originated from SRY01, explaining phenotypic variation from 9.8 to 17.8%. The closely linked InDel markers for qRYM-2Ha were developed which could be used for marker-assisted selection in barley breeding. qRYM-2Hb and qRYM-3H were stable QTL for specific resistance to Yancheng and Yangzhou virus strains, respectively. qRYM-5H and qRYM-7H identified in Yangzhou were originated from Gairdner. Our work is focusing on a virus disease (barley yellow mosaic) of barley. It is the first report on BYMD-resistant QTL from wild barley accessions. One novel major QTL (qRYM-2Ha) for the resistance was detected. The consistently detected new genes will potentially serve as novel sources for achieving pre-breeding barley materials with resistance to BYMD.
High-yielding and stress-resistant crops are essential to ensure future food supply. Barley is an important crop to feed livestock and to produce malt, but the annual yield is threatened by pathogen infections. Pathogens can trigger an altered sugar partitioning in the host plant, which possibly leads to an advantage for the pathogen. Hampering these processes represents a promising strategy to potentially increase resistance. We analysed the response of the barley monosaccharide transporter HvSTP13 towards biotic stress and its potential use for plant protection. The expression of HvSTP13 increased on bacterial and fungal pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP) application, suggesting a PAMP-triggered signalling that converged on the transcriptional induction of the gene. Promoter studies indicate a region that is probably targeted by transcription factors downstream of PAMP-triggered immunity pathways. We confirmed that the nonfunctional HvSTP13GR variant confers resistance against an economically relevant biotrophic rust fungus in barley. Our experimental setup provides basal prerequisites to further decode the role of HvSTP13 in response to biological stress. Moreover, in line with other studies, our experiments indicate that the alteration of sugar partitioning pathways, in a host-pathogen interaction, is a promising approach to achieve broad and durable resistance in plants.
In plants, histone modification (HM) genes participate in various developmental and defense processes. Gramineae plants (e.g., Triticum aestivum, Hordeum vulgare, Sorghum bicolor, Setaria italica, Setaria viridis, and Zea mays) are important crop species worldwide. However, little information on HM genes is in Gramineae species. Here, we identified 245 TaHMs, 72 HvHMs, 84 SbHMs, 93 SvHMs, 90 SiHMs, and 90 ZmHMs in the above six Gramineae species, respectively. Detailed information on their chromosome locations, conserved domains, phylogenetic trees, synteny, promoter elements, and gene structures were determined. Among the HMs, most motifs were conserved, but several unique motifs were also identified. Our results also suggested that gene and genome duplications potentially impacted the evolution and expansion of HMs in wheat. The number of orthologous gene pairs between rice (Oryza sativa) and each Gramineae species was much greater than that between Arabidopsis and each Gramineae species, indicating that the dicotyledons shared common ancestors. Moreover, all identified HM gene pairs likely underwent purifying selection based on to their non-synonymous (Ka)/synonymous (Ks) nucleotide substitutions. Using published transcriptome data, changes in TaHM gene expression in developing wheat grains treated with brassinosteroid, brassinazole, or activated charcoal were investigated. In addition, the transcription models of ZmHMs in developing maize seeds and after gibberellin treatment were also identified. We also examined plant stress responses and found that heat, drought, salt, insect feeding, nitrogen, and cadmium stress influenced many TaHMs, and drought altered the expression of several ZmHMs. Thus, these findings indicate their important functions in plant growth and stress adaptations. Based on a comprehensive analysis of Gramineae HMs, we found that TaHMs play potential roles in grain development, brassinosteroid- and brassinazole-mediated root growth, activated charcoal-mediated root and leaf growth, and biotic and abiotic adaptations. Furthermore, ZmHMs likely participate in seed development, gibberellin-mediated leaf growth, and drought adaptation.
Vacuolar H+-pumping pyrophosphatases (VPs) provide a proton gradient for Na+ sequestration in the tonoplast; however, the regulatory mechanisms of VPs in developing salt tolerance have not been fully elucidated. Here, we cloned a barley (Hordeum vulgare) VP gene (HVP10) that was identified previously as the HvNax3 gene. Homology analysis showed VP10 in plants had conserved structure and sequence and likely originated from the ancestors of the Ceramiales order of Rhodophyta (Cyanidioschyzon merolae). HVP10 was mainly expressed in roots and upregulated in response to salt stress. After salt treatment for 3 weeks, HVP10 knockdown (RNA interference) and knockout (CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing) barley plants showed greatly inhibited growth and higher shoot Na+ concentration, Na+ transportation rate and xylem Na+ loading relative to wild-type (WT) plants. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction and microelectronic Ion Flux Estimation results indicated that HVP10 likely modulates Na+ sequestration into the root vacuole by acting synergistically with Na+/H+ antiporters (HvNHX1 and HvNHX4) to enhance H+ efflux and K+ maintenance in roots. Moreover, transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) lines overexpressing HVP10 also showed higher salt tolerance than the WT at both seedling and adult stages with less Na+ translocation to shoots and higher grain yields under salt stress. This study reveals the molecular mechanism of HVP10 underlying salt tolerance and highlights its potential in improving crop salt tolerance.
Sustainable agricultural practices are still essential due to soil degradation and crop losses. Recently, the relationship between plants and nanoparticles (NPs) attracted scientists' attention, especially for applications in agricultural production as nanonutrition. Therefore, the present research was carried out to investigate the effect of Fe
Necrotic and chlorotic symptoms induced during Pyrenophora teres infection in barley leaves indicate a compatible interaction that allows the hemi-biotrophic fungus Pyrenophora teres to colonise the host. However, it is unexplored how this fungus affects the physiological responses of resistant and susceptible cultivars during infection. To assess the degree of resistance in four different cultivars, we quantified visible symptoms and fungal DNA and performed expression analyses of genes involved in plant defence and ROS scavenging. To obtain insight into the interaction between fungus and host, we determined the activity of 19 key enzymes of carbohydrate and antioxidant metabolism. The pathogen impact was also phenotyped non-invasively by sensor-based multireflectance and -fluorescence imaging. Symptoms, regulation of stress-related genes and pathogen DNA content distinguished the cultivar Guld as being resistant. Severity of net blotch symptoms was also strongly correlated with the dynamics of enzyme activities already within the first day of infection. In contrast to the resistant cultivar, the three susceptible cultivars showed a higher reflectance over seven spectral bands and higher fluorescence intensities at specific excitation wavelengths. The combination of semi high-throughput physiological and molecular analyses with non-invasive phenotyping enabled the identification of bio-signatures that discriminates the resistant from susceptible cultivars.
Net blotch, caused by the ascomycete Drechslera teres, can compromise barley production. Beneficial bacteria strains are of substantial interest as biological agents for plant protection in agriculture. Belonging to the genus Paraburkholderia, a bacterium, referred to as strain B25, has been identified as protective for barley against net blotch. The strain Paraburkholderia phytofirmans (strain PsJN), which has no effect on the pathogen's growth, has been used as control. In this study, the expression of target genes involved in cell wall-related processes, defense responses, carbohydrate and phenylpropanoid pathways was studied under various conditions (with or without pathogen and/or with or without bacterial strains) at different time-points (0-6-12-48 h). The results show that specific genes were subjected to a circadian regulation and that the expression of most of them increased in barley infected with D. teres and/or bacterized with the strain PsJN. On the contrary, a decreased gene expression was observed in the presence of strain B25. To complement and enrich the gene expression analysis, untargeted metabolomics was carried out on the same samples. The data obtained show an increase in the production of lipid compounds in barley in the presence of the pathogen. In addition, the presence of strain B25 leads to a decrease in the production of defense compounds in this crop. The results contribute to advance the knowledge on the mechanisms occurring at the onset of D. teres infection and in the presence of a biocontrol agent limiting the severity of net blotch in barley.
Protein storage vacuoles (PSVs) in aleurone cells coalesce during germination, and this process is highly coupled with mobilization of PSV reserves, allowing de novo synthesis of various hydrolases in aleurone cells for endosperm degradation. Here we show that in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) oleosins, the major integral proteins of oleosomes are encoded by four genes (HvOle1 to 4), and the expression of HvOle1 and HvOle3 is strongly up-regulated by abscisic acid (ABA), which shows antagonism to gibberellic acid. In aleurone cells, all HvOLEs were subcellularly targeted to the tonoplast of PSVs. Gain-of-function analyses revealed that HvOLE3 effectively delayed PSV coalescence, whereas HvOLE1 only had a moderate effect, with no notable effect of HvOLE2 and 4. With regard to longevity, HvOLE3 chiefly outperformed other HvOLEs, followed by HvOLE1. Experiments swapping the N- and C-terminal domain between HvOLE3 and other HvOLEs showed that the N-terminal region of HvOLE3 is mainly responsible, with some positive effect by the C-terminal region, for mediating the specific preventive effect of HvOLE3 on PSV coalescence. Three ACGT-core elements and the RY-motif were responsible for ABA induction of HvOle3 promoter activity. Transient expression assays using aleurone protoplasts demonstrated that transcriptional activation of the HvOle3 promoter was mediated by transcription factors HvABI3 and HvABI5, which acted downstream of protein kinase HvPKABA1.
In cultivated grasses, tillering, leaf, and inflorescence architecture, as well as abscission ability, are major agronomical traits. In barley (Hordeum vulgare), maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa), and brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon), NOOT-BOP-COCH-LIKE (NBCL) genes are essential regulators of vegetative and reproductive development. Grass species usually possess 2-4 NBCL copies and until now a single study in O. sativa showed that the disruption of all NBCL genes strongly altered O. sativa leaf development. To improve our understanding of the role of NBCL genes in grasses, we extended the study of the two NBCL paralogs BdUNICULME4 (CUL4) and BdLAXATUM-A (LAXA) in the nondomesticated grass B. distachyon. For this, we applied reversed genetics and generated original B. distachyon single and double nbcl mutants by clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats - CRISPR associated protein 9 (CRISPR-Cas9) approaches and genetic crossing between nbcl targeting induced local lesions in genomes (TILLING) mutants. Through the study of original single laxa CRISPR-Cas9 null alleles, we validated functions previously proposed for LAXA in tillering, leaf patterning, inflorescence, and flower development and also unveiled roles for these genes in seed yield. Furthermore, the characterization of cul4laxa double mutants revealed essential functions for nbcl genes in B. distachyon development, especially in the regulation of tillering, stem cell elongation and secondary cell wall composition as well as for the transition toward the reproductive phase. Our results also highlight recurrent antagonist interactions between NBCLs occurring in multiple aspects of B. distachyon development.
Expansins are cell wall loosening proteins and involved in various developmental processes and abiotic stress. No systematic research, however, has been conducted on expansin genes family in barley. A total of 46 expansins were identified and could be classified into three subfamilies in Hordeum vulgare: HvEXPA, HvEXPB, and HvEXLA. All expansin proteins contained two conserved domains: DPBB_1 and Pollen_allerg_1. Expansins, in the same subfamily, share similar motifs composition and exon-intron organization; but greater differences were found among different subfamilies. Expansins are distributed unevenly on 7 barley chromosomes; tandem duplicates, including the collinear tandem array, contribute to the forming of the expansin genes family in barley with few whole-genome duplication events. Most HvEXPAs mainly expressed in embryonic and root tissues. HvEXPBs and HvEXLAs showed different expression patterns in 16 tissues during different developmental stages. In response to water deficit, expansins in wild barley were more sensitive than that in cultivated barley; the expressions of HvEXPB5 and HvEXPB6 were significantly induced in wild barley under drought stress. Our study provides a comprehensive and systematic analysis of the barley expansin genes in genome-wide level. This information will lay a solid foundation for further functional exploration of expansin genes in plant development and drought stress tolerance.
An ABA-deficient barley mutant (Az34) and its parental cultivar (Steptoe) were compared. Plants of salt-stressed Az34 (100 mmol m
Salt stress tolerance of crop plants is a trait with increasing value for future food production. In an attempt to identify proteins that participate in the salt stress response of barley, we have used a cDNA library from salt-stressed seedling roots of the relatively salt-stress-tolerant cv. Morex for the transfection of a salt-stress-sensitive yeast strain (
Transcriptional regulatory mechanisms governing plant cell wall biosynthesis are incomplete. Expression programs that activate wall biosynthesis are well understood, but mechanisms that control the attenuation of gene expression networks remain elusive. Previous work has shown that small RNAs (sRNAs) derived from the
Plant non-specific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs), a group of small, basic ubiquitous proteins to participate in lipid transfer, cuticle formation and stress response, are involved in the regulation of plant growth and development. To date, although the nsLTP gene family of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) has been preliminarily identified, it is still unclear in the recently completed genome database of barley and Qingke, and its transcriptional profiling under abiotic stress has not been elucidated as well. We identified 40 barley nsLTP (HvLTP) genes through a strict screening strategy based on the latest barley genome and 35 Qingke nsLTP (HtLTP) orthologues using blastp, and these LTP genes were divided into four types (1, 2, D and G). At the same time, a comprehensive analysis of the physical and chemical characteristics, homology alignment, conserved motifs, gene structure and evolution of HvLTPs and HtLTPs further supported their similar nsLTP characteristics and classification. The genomic location of HvLTPs and HtLTPs showed that these genes were unevenly distributed, and obvious HvLTP and HtLTP gene clusters were found on the 7 chromosomes including six pairs of tandem repeats and one pair of segment repeats in the barley genome, indicating that these genes may be co-evolutionary and co-regulated. A spatial expression analysis showed that most HvLTPs and HtLTPs had different tissue-specific expression patterns. Moreover, the upstream cis-element analysis of HvLTPs and HtLTPs showed that there were many different stress-related transcriptional regulatory elements, and the expression pattern of HvLTPs and HtLTPs under abiotic stress also indicated that numerous HvLTP and HtLTP genes were related to the abiotic stress response. Taken together, these results may be due to the differences in promoters rather than by genes themselves resulting in different expression patterns under abiotic stress. Due to a stringent screening and comprehensive analysis of the nsLTP gene family in barley and Qingke and its expression profile under abiotic stress, this study can be considered a useful source for the future studies of nsLTP genes in either barley or Qingke or for comparisons of different plant species.
MADS-box genes have a wide range of functions in plant reproductive development and grain production. The ABCDE model of floral organ development shows that MADS-box genes are central players in these events in dicotyledonous plants but the applicability of this model remains largely unknown in many grass crops. Here, we show that transcript analysis of all MIKCc MADS-box genes through barley (
Cadmium (Cd) pollutants restrict crop yield and food security in long-term agricultural activities. Crops have evolved adaptive strategies under Cd condition, however, the transcriptional regulatory mechanism of Cd-tolerant genes remains to be largely illustrated. In this study, barley roots were exposed to 5 µM CdCl
Germination and seedling growth are crucial for plant development and agricultural production. While, the regulatory mechanisms during these processes in Tibetan hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum) are not well understood. Given the regulatory roles of microRNAs (miRNAs) in crop plants and the irreplaceability of barley in the highland area of China, we herein presented a genome-wide survey of miRNAs to reveal a potential regulatory network in the early developmental stages of two Tibetan hulless barleys, from which a total of 156 miRNAs was identified including 35 known and 121 novel ones. Six of the identified novel miRNAs were further experimentally validated. According to the evolutionary analysis, miR156, miR166, miR168, and miR171 were conserved across Tibetan hulless barleys and eight other seed plants. Expression profiles of ten known miRNAs showed that they were involved in phytohormone signaling, carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, as well as juvenile-adult transition during barley development. Moreover, a total of 1280 genes targeted by 101 miRNAs were predicted from both barley libraries. Three genes (PLN03212, MATE eukaryotic, and GRAS) were validated via the RNA ligase-mediated 5'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RLM-5' RACE) to be the targets of hvu-miR159a, hvu-miR166a, and hvu-miR171-3p, respectively. Based on the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis of putative targets, the most abundant pathways were related to "metabolism". These results revealed that miRNA-target pairs participating in the regulation of multigene expression and the embryonic development of Tibetan hulless barleys were controlled by complex mechanisms involving the concordant expression of different miRNAs and feedback loops among miRNAs as well as their targets. The study provides insight into the regulatory network of barley miRNAs for better understanding of miRNA functions during germination and seedling growth.
Cytosine methylation is an epigenetic modification with essential roles in diverse plant biological processes including vegetative and reproductive development and responsiveness to environmental stimuli. A dynamic process involving DNA methyltransferases and DNA demethylases establishes cytosine DNA methylation levels and distribution along the genome. A DNA demethylase gene from barley (Hordeum vulgare), DEMETER (HvDME), the homologue of the Arabidopsis thaliana DME (AtDME), has been characterized previously and found to respond to drought conditions. Here, the promoter of the HvDME gene was analysed further by in silico and DNA methylation analysis. The effect of drought conditions on the DNA methylation status of HvDME was investigated at single-cytosine resolution using bisulfite sequencing. It was demonstrated that the HvDME promoter can be divided into two discrete regions, in terms of DNA methylation level and density; a relatively unmethylated region proximal to the translational start site that is depleted of non-CG (CHG, CHH) methylation and another distal region, approximately 1500 bp upstream of the translational start site, enriched in CG, as well as non-CG methylation. Drought stress provoked alterations in the methylation status of the HvDME promoter distal region, whereas the DNA methylation of the proximal region remained unaffected. Computational analysis of the HvDME promoter revealed the presence of several putative regulatory elements related to drought responsiveness, as well as transposable elements (TEs) that may affect DNA methylation. Overall, our results expand our investigations of the epigenetic regulation of the HvDME gene in response to drought stress in barley and may contribute to further understanding of the epigenetic mechanisms underlying abiotic stress responses in barley and other cereals.
A comparative analysis of physio-biochemical indices and transcriptional activity of oxidative stress genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seedlings after 7-days exposure to bulk- and nano-ZnO (300 and 2000 mg/L) was carried out. A dose-dependent reduction in the length and weight of roots and shoots, as well as a significant accumulation of Zn in plant parts, was shown. Alterations in the shape and size of organelles, cytoplasmic vacuolization, and chloroplast and mitochondrial disorganization were also revealed. These processes are particularly pronounced when H. vulgare is exposed to the higher concentrations of nano-ZnO. The study of the antioxidant defense system revealed mainly an increase in the level of reduced glutathione and the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione reductase (GR), and glutathione S-transferase (GST). The increases in activity, by 4-fold and 3-fold, was found for glutathione transferase in the roots when exposed to 2000 mg/L bulk- and nano-ZnO, respectively. The study of transcriptional activity demonstrated that in the roots under the influence of bulk- and nano-ZnO, along with Mn-SOD, Fe-SOD is highly expressed, mainly associated with the protection of chloroplasts. Analysis of the Cat 1 and Cat 2 gene expression showed that the main contribution to the increase in catalase activity in treated H. vulgare is made by the CAT-1 isozyme. Generally, in response to the impact of the studied ZnO forms, the antioxidant defense system is activated in H. vulgare, which effectively prevents the progression of oxidative stress in early stages of plant ontogenesis. Nevertheless, with constant exposure to bulk- and nano-ZnO at high concentrations, such activation leads to a depletion of the plant's energy resources, which negatively affects its growth and development. The results obtained could be useful in predicting the risks associated with the further transfer of nano-ZnO to the environment.
Efficient and stable restoration of male fertility (Rf) is a prerequisite for large-scale hybrid seed production but remains an inherent issue in the predominant fertility control system of rye (
The Microrchidia (MORC) family proteins are important nuclear regulators in both animals and plants with critical roles in epigenetic gene silencing and genome stabilization. In the crop plant barley (Hordeum vulgare), seven MORC gene family members have been described. While barley HvMORC1 has been functionally characterized, very little information is available about other HvMORC paralogs. In this study, we elucidate the role of HvMORC6a and its potential interactors in regulating plant immunity via analysis of CRISPR/SpCas9-mediated single and double knockout (dKO) mutants, hvmorc1 (previously generated and characterized by our group), hvmorc6a, and hvmorc1/6a. For generation of hvmorc1/6a, we utilized two different strategies: (i) successive Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of homozygous single mutants, hvmorc1 and hvmorc6a, with the respective second construct, and (ii) simultaneous transformation with both hvmorc1 and hvmorc6a CRISPR/SpCas9 constructs. Total mutation efficiency in transformed homozygous single mutants ranged from 80 to 90%, while upon simultaneous transformation, SpCas9-induced mutation in both HvMORC1 and HvMORC6a genes was observed in 58% of T0 plants. Subsequent infection assays showed that HvMORC6a covers a key role in resistance to biotrophic (Blumeria graminis) and necrotrophic (Fusarium graminearum) plant pathogenic fungi, where the dKO hvmorc1/6a showed the strongest resistant phenotype. Consistent with this, the dKO showed highest levels of basal PR gene expression and derepression of TEs. Finally, we demonstrate that HvMORC1 and HvMORC6a form distinct nucleocytoplasmic homo-/heteromers with other HvMORCs and interact with components of the RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM) pathway, further substantiating that MORC proteins are involved in the regulation of TEs in barley.
Tibetan hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare var. nudum), adjusting to the harsh environment on Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, is a good subject for analyzing drought tolerance mechanism. Several unannotated differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified through our previous RNA-Seq study using two hulless barley accessions with contrasting drought tolerance. One of these DEGs, HVU010048.2, showed up-regulated pattern under dehydration stress in both drought tolerant (DT) and drought susceptible (DS) accessions, while its function in drought resistance remains unknown. This new gene was named as HvLRX (light responsive X), because its expression was induced under high light intensity while suppressed under dark. To provide preliminary bioinformatics prediction, expression pattern, and drought resistance function of this new gene. Bioinformatics analysis of HvLRX were conducted by MEGA, PlantCARE, ProtParam, CELLO et al. The expression pattern of HvLRX under different light intensity, dehydration shock, gradual drought stress, NaCl stress, polyethylene glycol (PEG) 6000 stress and abscisic acid (ABA) treatment was investigated by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). The function of HvLRX was analyzed by virus induced gene silencing (VIGS) in hulless barley and by transgenic method in tobacco. Full cDNAs of HvLRX were cloned and compared in three hulless barley accessions. Homologues of HvLRX protein in other plants were excavated and their phylogenetic relationship was analyzed. Several light responsive elements (ATC-motif, Box 4, G-box, Sp1, and chs-CMA1a) were identified in its promoter region. Its expression can be promoted under high light intensity, dehydration shock, gradual drought stress, PEG 6000, and NaCl stress, but was almost unchanged in ABA treatment. HvLRX-silenced plants had a higher leaf water loss rate (WLR) and a lower survival rate (SR) compared with controls under dehydration stress. The infected leaves of HvLRX-silenced plants lost their water content quickly and became withered at 10 dpi. The SR of HvLRX overexpressed transgenic tobacco plants was significantly higher than that of wild-type plants. These results indicated HvLRX play a role in drought resistance. Besides, retarded vegetative growth was detected in HvLRX-silenced hulless barley plants, which suggested that this gene is important for plant development. This study provided data of bioinformatics, expression pattern, and function of HvLRX. To our knowledge, this is the first report of this new dehydration and light responsive gene.
Salt stress is one of the major environmental restricts for crop production and food safety. Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is the most salt-tolerant cereal crop, which could be the pioneer for shifting agricultural crop production to marginal saline lands. However, probably due to high genetic complexity of salinity tolerance trait, the progress in the identification of salt-tolerant locus or genes of barley roots moves slowly. Here, we determined physiological and ionic changes in mini-core barley accessions under salt conditions. Na
Antimicrobial peptides play a crucial role in the innate immune system of multicellular organisms. LL-37 is the only known member of the human cathelicidin family. As well as possessing antibacterial properties, it is actively involved in various physiological responses in eukaryotic cells. Accordingly, there is considerable interest in large-scale, low-cost, and microbial endotoxin-free production of LL-37 recombinant peptides for pharmaceutical applications. As a heterologous expression biofactory, we have previously obtained homologous barley (
The conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex maintains correct Golgi structure and function during retrograde trafficking. Glycine max has 2 paralogs of each COG gene, with one paralog of each gene family having a defense function to the parasitic nematode Heterodera glycines. Experiments presented here show G. max COG paralogs functioning in defense are expressed specifically in the root cells (syncytia) undergoing the defense response. The expressed defense COG gene COG7-2-b is an alternate splice variant, indicating specific COG variants are important to defense. Transcriptomic experiments examining RNA isolated from COG overexpressing and RNAi roots show some COG genes co-regulate the expression of other COG complex genes. Examining signaling events responsible for COG expression, transcriptomic experiments probing MAPK overexpressing roots show their expression influences the relative transcript abundance of COG genes as compared to controls. COG complex paralogs are shown to be found in plants that are agriculturally relevant on a world-wide scale including Manihot esculenta, Zea mays, Oryza sativa, Triticum aestivum, Hordeum vulgare, Sorghum bicolor, Brassica rapa, Elaes guineensis and Saccharum officinalis and in additional crops significant to U.S. agriculture including Beta vulgaris, Solanum tuberosum, Solanum lycopersicum and Gossypium hirsutum. The analyses provide basic information on COG complex biology, including the coregulation of some COG genes and that MAPKs functioning in defense influence their expression. Furthermore, it appears in G. max and likely other crops that some level of neofunctionalization of the duplicated genes is occurring. The analysis has identified important avenues for future research broadly in plants.
Loss-of-function mutation of the MILDEW RESISTANCE LOCUS O (Mlo) gene confers durable and broad-spectrum resistance to powdery mildew fungi in various plants, including barley. In combination with the intracellular nucleotide-binding domain and leucine-rich repeat receptor (NLR) genes, which confer the race-specific resistance, the mlo alleles have long been used in barley breeding as genetic resources that confer robust non-race-specific resistance. However, a Japanese Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei isolate, RACE1, has been reported to have the potential to overcome partially the mlo-mediated penetration resistance, although this is yet uncertain because the putative effects of NLR genes in the tested accessions have not been ruled out. In this study, we examined the reproducibility of the earlier report and found that the infectious ability of RACE1, which partially overcomes the mlo-mediated resistance, is only exerted in the absence of NLR genes recognizing RACE1. Furthermore, using the transient-induced gene silencing technique, we demonstrated that RACE1 can partially overcome the resistance in the host cells with suppressed MLO expression but not in plants possessing the null mutant allele mlo-5.
Transition to the reproductive phase, inflorescence formation and flower development are crucial elements that ensure maximum reproductive success in a plant's life cycle. To understand the regulatory mechanisms underlying correct flower development in barley (Hordeum vulgare), we characterized the multiovary 5 (mov5.o) mutant. This mutant develops abnormal flowers that exhibit mosaic floral organs typified by multiple carpels at the total or partial expense of stamens. Genetic mapping positioned mov5 on the long arm of chromosome 2H, incorporating a region that encodes HvLFY, the barley orthologue of LEAFY from Arabidopsis. Sequencing revealed that, in mov5.o plants, HvLFY contains a single amino acid substitution in a highly conserved proline residue. CRISPR-mediated knockout of HvLFY replicated the mov5.o phenotype, suggesting that HvLFY
Germins and germin-like proteins (GLPs) known as germination markers are encoded by multigene families in several plant species, including barley. To date, functional analysis has revealed germins and GLPs are involved in diverse processes such as embryonic development and stress responses. The aim of this study was the analysis of barley germins and GLPs. In this study, 80 putative germins and GLPs have been identified in barley by using known 17 germins and GLP sequences. Analysis of germins and GLPs showed all germins and GLPs are distributed on all seven chromosomes that most of them spread through chromosome 3, 4 and 7 with 16, 18 and 12 proteins on each, respectively. The protein sizes varied between 185 and 335 amino acids, with an average length of 225 aa. Twelve conserved motifs were found. While germin motifs 1 and 3 were detected in all germins and GLPs, some motifs were found to be related to signalization. Interestingly, protein-protein interaction analysis demonstrated some GLPs are associated with RAB6-interacting golgin, oligopeptide transmembrane transporter activity, beta-glucuronidase activity, protein N-linked glycosylation, multi-pass membrane protein, and proteins containing zinc finger (Znf) domain and RING (really interesting new gene)-type zinc finger domains. Our findings suggest that barley germins and GLPs may have diverse functions that make them important candidates for crop improvement.
Barley is characterized by a rich genetic diversity, making it an important model for studies of salinity response with great potential for crop improvement. Moreover, salt stress severely affects barley growth and development, leading to substantial yield loss. Leaf and root transcriptomes of a salt-tolerant Tunisian landrace (Boulifa) exposed to 2, 8, and 24 h salt stress were compared with pre-exposure plants to identify candidate genes and pathways underlying barley's response. Expression of 3585 genes was upregulated and 5586 downregulated in leaves, while expression of 13,200 genes was upregulated and 10,575 downregulated in roots. Regulation of gene expression was severely impacted in roots, highlighting the complexity of salt stress response mechanisms in this tissue. Functional analyses in both tissues indicated that response to salt stress is mainly achieved through sensing and signaling pathways, strong transcriptional reprograming, hormone osmolyte and ion homeostasis stabilization, increased reactive oxygen scavenging, and activation of transport and photosynthesis systems. A number of candidate genes involved in hormone and kinase signaling pathways, as well as several transcription factor families and transporters, were identified. This study provides valuable information on early salt-stress-responsive genes in roots and leaves of barley and identifies several important players in salt tolerance.
In filamentous fungi, gene silencing by RNA interference (RNAi) shapes many biological processes, including pathogenicity. Recently, fungal small RNAs (sRNAs) have been shown to act as effectors that disrupt gene activity in interacting plant hosts, thereby undermining their defence responses. We show here that the devastating mycotoxin-producing ascomycete Fusarium graminearum (Fg) utilizes DICER-like (DCL)-dependent sRNAs to target defence genes in two Poaceae hosts, barley (Hordeum vulgare, Hv) and Brachypodium distachyon (Bd). We identified 104 Fg-sRNAs with sequence homology to host genes that were repressed during interactions of Fg and Hv, while they accumulated in plants infected by the DCL double knock-out (dKO) mutant PH1-dcl1/2. The strength of target gene expression correlated with the abundance of the corresponding Fg-sRNA. Specifically, the abundance of three tRNA-derived fragments (tRFs) targeting immunity-related Ethylene overproducer 1-like 1 (HvEOL1) and three Poaceae orthologues of Arabidopsis thaliana BRI1-associated receptor kinase 1 (HvBAK1, HvSERK2 and BdSERK2) was dependent on fungal DCL. Additionally, RNA-ligase-mediated Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends (RLM-RACE) identified infection-specific degradation products for the three barley gene transcripts, consistent with the possibility that tRFs contribute to fungal virulence via targeted gene silencing.
Plant in vitro regeneration systems, such as somatic embryogenesis, are essential in breeding; they permit propagation of elite genotypes, production of doubled-haploids, and regeneration of whole plants from gene editing or transformation events. However, in many crop and forest species, somatic embryogenesis is highly inefficient. We report a new strategy to improve in vitro embryogenesis using synthetic small molecule inhibitors of mammalian glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK-3β), never used in plants. These inhibitors increased in vitro embryo production in three different systems and species, microspore embryogenesis of Brassica napus and Hordeum vulgare, and somatic embryogenesis of Quercus suber. TDZD-8, a representative compound of the molecules tested, inhibited GSK-3 activity in microspore cultures, and increased expression of embryogenesis genes FUS3, LEC2, and AGL15. Plant GSK-3 kinase BIN2 is a master regulator of brassinosteroid (BR) signalling. During microspore embryogenesis, BR biosynthesis and signalling genes CPD, GSK-3-BIN2, BES1, and BZR1 were up-regulated and the BAS1 catabolic gene was repressed, indicating activation of the BR pathway. TDZD-8 increased expression of BR signalling elements, mimicking BR effects. The findings support that the small molecule inhibitors promoted somatic embryogenesis by activating the BR pathway, opening up the way for new strategies using GSK-3β inhibitors that could be extended to other species.
Plant mitochondrial transcription termination factor (mTERF) family regulates organellar gene expression (OGE) and is functionally characterized in diverse species. However, limited data are available about its functions in the agriculturally important cereal barley (
Cadmium is an environmental pollutant with high toxicity that negatively affects plant growth and development. To understand the molecular mechanisms of plant response to cadmium stress, we have performed a genome-wide transcriptome analysis on barley plants treated with an increased concentration of cadmium. Differential gene expression analysis revealed 10,282 deregulated transcripts present in the roots and 7,104 in the shoots. Among them, we identified genes related to reactive oxygen species metabolism, cell wall formation and maintenance, ion membrane transport and stress response. One of the most upregulated genes was
Salt stress is considered one of the most devastating environmental stresses, affecting barley growth and leading to significant yield loss. Hence, there is considerable interest in investigating the most effective traits that determine barley growth under salt stress. The objective of this study was to elucidate the contribution of osmotic and oxidative stress components in leaves and roots growth under salt stress. Two distinct barley (
Transcriptional activation of subfamily II PHT1 members in roots is associated with the enhanced phosphorus use efficiency and growth promotion of barley seedlings inoculated with Glomus species. The arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi symbiotic associations in cereal crops are known to regulate growth in cultivar-specific manner and induce phosphate (Pi) transporters (PHT1) in roots. In the present study, we observed that both AM colonization of roots by Glomus species and phosphate starvation enhanced phosphorus use efficiency (PUE) in barley seedlings. Our search for the full complement of PHT1 members in the recently sequenced barley genome identified six additional genes, totaling their number to 17. Both AM colonization and Pi starvation triggered activation of common as well as different PHT1s. Pi starvation led to the robust upregulation of HvPHT1;6.2/6.3 at 7d and weak activation of HvPHT1;1 in shoots at 3d time-point. In roots, only HvPHT1;1, HvPHT1;6.2/6.3, HvPHT1;7, HvPHT1;8, HvPHT1;11.2 and HvPHT12 were induced at least one of the time-points. AM colonization specifically upregulated HvPHT1;11, HvPHT1;11.2, HvPHT1;12 and HvPHT1;13.1/13.2, members belonging to subfamily II, in roots. Sucrose availability seems to be obligatory for the robust activation of HvPHT1;1 as unavailability of this metabolite generally weakened its upregulation under Pi starvation. Intriguingly, lack of sucrose supply also led to induction of HvPHT1;5, HvPHT1;8, and HvPHT1;11.2 in either roots or shoot or both. The mRNA levels of HvPHT1;5 and HvPHT1;11.2 were not severely affected under combined deficiency of Pi and sucrose. Taken together, this study not only identify additional PHT1 members in barley, but also ascertain their AM, Pi and sucrose-specific transcript accumulation. The beneficial role of AM fungi in the promotion of PUE and barley seedlings' growth is also demonstrated.
Several QTLs and genes responsible for seed dormancy were detected and SNP candidates were shown to cause changes in seed germination. Seed dormancy is a key agricultural trait to prevent pre-harvest sprouting in crop plants such as rice (Oryza sativa L.), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). However, our knowledge of seed dormancy is hampered by the complexities of studying a trait that changes over time after seed harvest, and is complicated by interactions between phytohormones, seed coat components and the environment. Here, we have conducted a genome-wide association study using a panel of 311 natural accessions of cultivated rice, examining a total of 519,158 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Eight quantitative trait loci (QTLs) were found to associate with seed dormancy in the whole panel and five in the Japonica and Indica subpanel; expression of candidate genes within 100 kb of each QTL was examined in two published, germination-specific transcriptomic datasets. Ten candidate genes, differentially expressed within the first four days post-imbibition, were identified. Five of these genes had previously been associated with awn length, heading date, yield, and spikelet length phenotypes. Two candidates were validated using Quantitative Reverse Transcription (qRT)-PCR. In addition, previously identified genes involved in hormone signaling during germination were found to be differentially expressed between a japonica and an indica line; SNPs in the promoter of Os9BGlu33 were associated with germination index, with qRT-PCR validation. Collectively, our results are useful for future characterization of seed dormancy mechanism and crop improvement, and suggest haplotypes for further analysis that may be of use to boost PHS resistance in rice.
The demonstration that spray-induced gene silencing (SIGS) can confer strong disease resistance, bypassing the laborious and time-consuming transgenic expression of double-stranded (ds)RNA to induce the gene silencing of pathogenic targets, was ground-breaking. However, future field applications will require fundamental mechanistic knowledge of dsRNA uptake, processing, and transfer. There is increasing evidence that extracellular vesicles (EVs) mediate the transfer of transgene-derived small interfering (si)RNAs in host-induced gene silencing (HIGS) applications. In this study, we establish a protocol for barley EV isolation and assess the possibilities for EVs regarding the translocation of sprayed dsRNA from barley (
The present study aimed to establish an early model of the malting barley transcriptome, which describes the expression of genes and their ontologies, identify the period during malting with the largest dynamic shift in gene expression for future investigation, and to determine the expression patterns of all starch degrading enzyme genes relevant to the malting and brewing industry. Large dynamic increases in gene expression occurred early in malting with differential expressed genes enriched for cell wall and starch hydrolases amongst many malting related categories. Twenty-five of forty starch degrading enzyme genes were differentially expressed in the malting barley transcriptome including eleven α-amylase genes, six β-amylase genes, three α-glucosidase genes, and all five starch debranching enzyme genes. Four new or novel α-amylase genes, one β-amylase gene (Bmy3), three α-glucosidase genes, and two isoamylase genes had appreciable expression that requires further exploration into their potential relevance to the malting and brewing industry.
This chapter deals with microspore embryogenesis in Citrus. Microspore embryogenesis allows to induce immature gametes (microspores) and to deviate them, in this case, the male one, from the normal gametophytic developmental route in the direction of the sporophytic one, yielding homozygous organisms (embryos and plants).
In plant research and breeding, haploid technology is employed upon crossing, induced mutagenesis or genetic engineering to generate populations of meiotic recombinants that are themselves genetically fixed. Thanks to the speed and efficiency in producing true-breeding lines, haploid technology has become a major driver of modern crop improvement. In the present study, we used embryogenic pollen cultures of winter barley ( Hordeum vulgare ) for Cas9 endonuclease-mediated targeted mutagenesis in haploid cells, which facilitates the generation of homozygous primary mutant plants. To this end, microspores were extracted from immature anthers, induced to undergo cell proliferation and embryogenic development in vitro, and were then inoculated with Agrobacterium for the delivery of T-DNAs comprising expression units for Cas9 endonuclease and target gene-specific guide RNAs (gRNAs). Amongst the regenerated plantlets, mutants were identified by PCR amplification of the target regions followed by sequencing of the amplicons. This approach also enabled us to discriminate between homozygous and heterozygous or chimeric mutants. The heritability of induced mutations and their homozygous state were experimentally confirmed by progeny analyses. The major advantage of the method lies in the preferential production of genetically fixed primary mutants, which facilitates immediate phenotypic analyses and, relying on that, a particularly efficient preselection of valuable lines for detailed investigations using their progenies.
Durable disease resistance genes such as the wheat gene Lr34 are valuable sources of resistance for agricultural breeding programs. Lr34 encodes an ATP-binding cassette transporter protein involved in the transport of the phytohormone abscisic acid. Lr34 from wheat is functionally transferable to barley, maize, rice and sorghum. A pleiotropic effect of Lr34 induces the development of a senescence-like phenotype, referred to as leaf tip necrosis. We used Lr34-expressing wheat and transgenic barley plants to elucidate the role of abscisic acid in the development of leaf tip necrosis. Leaf tips in Lr34-expressing wheat and barley showed an accumulation of abscisic acid. No increase of Lr34 expression was detected in the leaf tip. Instead, the development of ectopic, Lr34-induced leaf tip necrosis after removing the leaf tip suggests an increased flux of abscisic acid towards the tip, where it accumulates and mediates the development of leaf tip necrosis. This redistribution of abscisic acid was also observed in adult transgenic barley plants with a high Lr34 expression level growing in the field and coincided with leaf tip necrosis as well as complete field resistance against Puccinia hordei and Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. In a barley transgenic line with a lower Lr34 expression level, a quantitative resistance against Puccinia hordei was still observed, but without a significant redistribution of abscisic acid or apparent leaf tip necrosis. Thus, our results imply that fine-tuning the Lr34 expression level is essential to balance disease resistance versus leaf tip necrosis to deploy transgenic Lr34 in breeding programs.
Temperature stresses affect plant phenotypic diversity. The developmental stability of the inflorescence, required for reproductive success, is tightly regulated by the interplay of genetic and environmental factors. However, the mechanisms underpinning how plant inflorescence architecture responds to temperature are largely unknown. We demonstrate that the barley SEPALLATA MADS-box protein HvMADS1 is responsible for maintaining an unbranched spike architecture at high temperatures, while the loss-of-function mutant forms a branched inflorescence-like structure. HvMADS1 exhibits increased binding to target promoters via A-tract CArG-box motifs, which change conformation with temperature. Target genes for high-temperature-dependent HvMADS1 activation are predominantly associated with inflorescence differentiation and phytohormone signalling. HvMADS1 directly regulates the cytokinin-degrading enzyme HvCKX3 to integrate temperature response and cytokinin homeostasis, which is required to repress meristem cell cycle/division. Our findings reveal a mechanism by which genetic factors direct plant thermomorphogenesis, extending the recognized role of plant MADS-box proteins in floral development.
Aluminum oxide and zinc oxide nanoparticles (NPs) are two of the mostly produced engineered metal oxide NPs. Here, barley germination and root elongation as well as gene expressions of the selected aquaporins (HvTip1;1 and HvPip1;1) and transcription factors (HvERFs and HvNFX1) were investigated after exposure to Al
Decisive role of reduced vrs1 transcript abundance in six-rowed spike of barley carrying vrs1.a4 was genetically proved and its potential causes were preliminarily analyzed. Six-rowed spike 1 (vrs1) is the major determinant of the six-rowed spike phenotype of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Alleles of Vrs1 have been extensively investigated. Allele vrs1.a4 in six-rowed barley is unique in that it has the same coding sequence as Vrs1.b4 in two-rowed barley. The determinant of row-type in vrs1.a4 carriers has not been experimentally identified. Here, we identified Vrs1.b4 in two-rowed accessions and vrs1.a4 in six-rowed accessions from the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau at high frequency. Genetic analyses revealed a single nuclear gene accounting for row-type alteration in these accessions. Physical mapping identified a 0.08-cM (~ 554-kb) target interval on chromosome 2H, wherein Vrs1 was the most likely candidate gene. Further analysis of Vrs1 expression in offspring of the mapping populations or different Vrs1.b4 and vrs1.a4 lines confirmed that downregulated expression of vrs1.a4 causes six-rowed spike. Regulatory sequence analysis found a single 'TA' dinucleotide deletion in vrs1.a4 carriers within a 'TA' tandem-repeat-enriched region ~ 1 kb upstream of the coding region. DNA methylation levels did not correspond to the expression difference and therefore did not affect Vrs1 expression. More evidence is needed to verify the causal link between the 'TA' deletion and the downregulated Vrs1 expression and hence the six-rowed spike phenotype.
A chasmogamous mutant was induced by exposing a cleistogamous cultivar to sodium azide. The altered cly1 sequence in the mutant was not in the miR172 binding site, as is the case in other known cleistogamous alleles, but rather in a region encoding one of the gene product's two AP2 domains. The genetic basis of cleistogamy (in which pollination occurs before the flower opens) in barley is centered on the Cleistogamy 1 locus (cly1). The sequence of the microRNA (miR172)-targeting site in the gene, which belongs to the APETALA2 family, differs between cleistogamous and chasmogamous cultivars at a single nucleotide position, resulting in the differential ability of the lodicules to swell. Here, mutagenesis of the barley cultivar 'Misato Golden' (which carries the cly1.b allele), achieved using sodium azide, was used to induce a change from cleistogamy to chasmogamy (non-cleistogamous flowering). The cly1 coding sequence in the selected mutant differed from that of cly1.b by two non-synonymous mutations, one of which was responsible for an altered residue in one of the AP2 domains present in the Cly1 protein. Although there was no difference in the miR172 targeting site between cly1.b and the novel allele (designated cly1.b3), the mutant's lodicules' ability to swell was indistinguishable from that observed in cultivars carrying the chasmogamous allele Cly1.a. The phenotype of cly1.b3/cly1.b, cly1.b3/cly1.b2 and cly1.b3/cly1.c heterozygotes indicated that cly1.b3 is recessive or incompletely dominant with respect to these alleles.
Hypoxia stress can be caused by submergence or pathogen infection. These two stresses often occur sequentially or at the same time in nature. Therefore, plants have evolved economical and efficient strategies to deal with them, such as "single-gene multi-functions", that is, one gene could play roles in hypoxia or pathogen responses at the corresponding stress. This review mainly introduces the ERF-VII (ethylene response factor VII) and WRKYs (WRKY transcription factors) that can play roles in these two stresses. Meanwhile, the relationship between hypoxia and pathology has certain similarities in animals and plants, so we can learn from their related studies and develop new ideas for disease therapy and breeding.
Heat stress negatively affects barley production and under elevated temperatures defense responses to powdery mildew (
The WRKY transcription factors (WRKYs) are known for their crucial roles in biotic and abiotic stress responses, and developmental and physiological processes. In barley, early studies revealed their importance, whereas their diversity at the population scale remains hardly estimated. In this study, 98
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are a class of RNA molecules with gene regulatory functions in plant development and the stress response. Although the number of lncRNAs identified in plants is rapidly increasing, very little is known about their role in barley development. In this study, we performed global identification of barley lncRNAs based on 53 RNAseq libraries derived from nine different barley tissues and organs. In total, 17,250 lncRNAs derived from 10,883 loci were identified, including 8954 novel lncRNAs. Differential expression of lncRNAs was observed in the developing shoot apices and grains, the two organs that have a direct influence on the final yield. The regulatory interaction of differentially expressed lncRNAs with the potential target genes was evaluated. We identified 176 cis-acting lncRNAs in shoot apices and 424 in grains, while the number of trans-acting lncRNAs in these organs was 1736 and 540, respectively. The potential target protein-coding genes were identified, and their biological function was annotated using MapMan ontology. This is the first insight into the roles of lncRNAs in barley development on the genome-wide scale, and our results provide a solid background for future functional studies.
The basic leucine zipper (bZIP) family of genes encode transcription factors that play key roles in plant growth and development. In this study, a total of 92
Arabinoxylans are cell wall polysaccharides whose re-modelling and degradation during plant development are mediated by several classes of xylanolytic enzymes. Here, we present the identification and new annotation of twelve putative (1,4)-β-xylanase and six β-xylosidase genes, and their spatio-temporal expression patterns during vegetative and reproductive growth of barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Navigator). The encoded xylanase proteins are all predicted to contain a conserved carbohydrate-binding module (CBM) and a catalytic glycoside hydrolase (GH) 10 domain. Additional domains in some xylanases define three discrete phylogenetic clades: one clade contains proteins with an additional N-terminal signal sequence, while another clade contains proteins with multiple CBMs. Homology modelling revealed that all fifteen xylanases likely contain a third domain, a β-sandwich folded from two non-contiguous sequence segments that bracket the catalytic GH domain, which may explain why the full length protein is required for correct folding of the active enzyme. Similarly, predicted xylosidase proteins share a highly conserved domain structure, each with an N-terminal signal peptide, a split GH 3 domain, and a C-terminal fibronectin-like domain. Several genes appear to be ubiquitously expressed during barley growth and development, while four newly annotated xylanase and xylosidase genes are expressed at extremely high levels, which may be of broader interest for industrial applications where cell wall degradation is necessary.
Many microRNAs (miRNAs) have been predicted from small RNA sequencing data, but little was experimentally verified due to the lack of effective methods. Here, we developed a simple and reliable dual gene expression cassette vector-based method to verify predicted plant miRNAs. We cloned osa-miR528 as a known miRNA, hvu-miRX as a predicted miRNA and TaDREB3 open reading frame as a non-miRNA into the first gene expression cassette and fused their complementary or noncomplementary sequences as predicted target or nontarget sequences with the 3' untranslated region of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in the second one. When these constructs were bombarded into plant cells, only the construct containing both osa-miR528 or hvu-miRX and its complementary sequence did not generate green fluorescence. Stem-loop reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction detected mature osa-miR528 or mature hvu-miRX in the cells, while northern analysis showed that GFP messenger RNA from the construct containing both osa-miR528 or hvu-miRX and its complementary sequence was degraded. Taken together, the results indicate that hvu-miRX is an authentic miRNA like osa-miR528, miRNA's complementary sequence is its target sequence, and both osa-miR528 and hvu-miRX silenced the GFP expression via a cleavage mode. Our method thus facilitates the verification of predicted plant miRNAs, target sequences, and function modes.
The plastochron, the time interval between the formation of two successive leaves, is an important determinant of plant architecture. We genetically and phenotypically investigated many-noded dwarf (mnd) mutants in barley. The mnd mutants exhibited a shortened plastochron and a decreased leaf blade length, and resembled previously reported plastochron1 (pla1), pla2, and pla3 mutants in rice. In addition, the maturation of mnd leaves was accelerated, similar to pla mutants in rice. Several barley mnd alleles were derived from three genes-MND1, MND4, and MND8. Although MND4 coincided with a cytochrome P450 family gene that is a homolog of rice PLA1, we clarified that MND1 and MND8 encode an N-acetyltransferase-like protein and a MATE transporter-family protein, which are respectively orthologs of rice GW6a and maize BIGE1 and unrelated to PLA2 or PLA3. Expression analyses of the three MND genes revealed that MND1 and MND4 were expressed in limited regions of the shoot apical meristem and leaf primordia, but MND8 did not exhibit a specific expression pattern around the shoot apex. In addition, the expression levels of the three genes were interdependent among the various mutant backgrounds. Genetic analyses using the double mutants mnd4mnd8 and mnd1mnd8 indicated that MND1 and MND4 regulate the plastochron independently of MND8, suggesting that the plastochron in barley is controlled by multiple genetic pathways involving MND1, MND4, and MND8. Correlation analysis between leaf number and leaf blade length indicated that both traits exhibited a strong negative association among different genetic backgrounds but not in the same genetic background. We propose that MND genes function in the regulation of the plastochron and leaf growth and revealed conserved and diverse aspects of plastochron regulation via comparative analysis of barley and rice.
This review summarizes the allelic series, effects, interactions between genes and with the environment, for the major flowering time genes that drive phenological adaptation of barley. The optimization of phenology is a major goal of plant breeding addressing the production of high-yielding varieties adapted to changing climatic conditions. Flowering time in cereals is regulated by genetic networks that respond predominately to day length and temperature. Allelic diversity at these genes is at the basis of barley wide adaptation. Detailed knowledge of their effects, and genetic and environmental interactions will facilitate plant breeders manipulating flowering time in cereal germplasm enhancement, by exploiting appropriate gene combinations. This review describes a catalogue of alleles found in QTL studies by barley geneticists, corresponding to the genetic diversity at major flowering time genes, the main drivers of barley phenological adaptation: VRN-H1 (HvBM5A), VRN-H2 (HvZCCTa-c), VRN-H3 (HvFT1), PPD-H1 (HvPRR37), PPD-H2 (HvFT3), and eam6/eps2 (HvCEN). For each gene, allelic series, size and direction of QTL effects, interactions between genes and with the environment are presented. Pleiotropic effects on agronomically important traits such as grain yield are also discussed. The review includes brief comments on additional genes with large effects on phenology that became relevant in modern barley breeding. The parallelisms between flowering time allelic variation between the two most cultivated Triticeae species (barley and wheat) are also outlined. This work is mostly based on previously published data, although we added some new data and hypothesis supported by a number of studies. This review shows the wide variety of allelic effects that provide enormous plasticity in barley flowering behavior, which opens new avenues to breeders for fine-tuning phenology of the barley crop.
The APETAL2/Ethylene Responsive Factor (AP2/ERF) family was the subject of intensive research which led to the identification of several members involved in different stress responses such as salinity, drought and high temperature. The SHN/WIN clade of AP2/ERF participates in many important processes such as cutin and wax biosynthesis, ethylene signaling and gene expression. Here, we report the functional analysis of SHN1-type transcription factor, HvSHN1, from barely. The overexpression of HvSHN1 under the control of the duplicated 35S promoter in transgenic tobacco plants improved tolerance to salt, water stress and heat stress. Transgenic lines exhibited altered permeability of the cuticle and decreased stomatal density. Under heat stress, HvSHN1 transgenic lines exhibited higher superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activity and lower MDA and H
A novel qualitative locus regulating the uppermost internode elongation of barley was identified and mapped on 6H, and the candidate gene mining was performed by employing various barley genomic resources. The stem of grass crops, such as barley and wheat, is composed of several interconnected internodes. The extent of elongation of these internodes determines stem height, and hence lodging, canopy architecture, and grain yield. The uppermost internode (UI) is the last internode to elongate. Its elongation contributes largely to stem height and facilitates spike exsertion, which is crucial for final grain yield. Despite the molecular mechanism underlying regulation of UI elongation was extensively investigated in rice, little is known in barley. In this study, we characterized a barley spontaneous mutant, Sheathed Spike 1 (SS1), showing significantly shortened UI and sheathed spike (SS). The extension of UI parenchyma cell in SS1 was significantly suppressed. Exogenous hormone treatments and RNA-seq analysis indicated that the suppression of UI elongation is possibly related to insufficient content of endogenous bioactive gibberellin. Genetic analysis showed that SS1 is possibly controlled by a qualitative dominant nuclear factor. Bulked segregant analysis and further molecular marker mapping identified a novel major locus, HvSS1, in a recombination cold spot expanding 173.44-396.33 Mb on chromosome 6H. The candidate gene mining was further conducted by analyzing sequence differences, spatiotemporal expression patterns, and variant distributions of genes in the candidate interval by employing various barley genomic resources of worldwide collections of barley accessions. This study made insight into genetic control of UI elongation in barley and laid a solid foundation for further gene cloning and functional characterization. The results obtained here also provided valuable information for similar research in wheat.
HAK/KUP/KT (High-affinity K In the present study, we identified 27 barley HAK/KUP/KT genes (hereafter called HvHAKs) through a genome-wide analysis. These HvHAKs were unevenly distributed on seven chromosomes, and could be phylogenetically classified into four clusters. All HvHAK protein sequences possessed the conserved motifs and domains. However, the substantial difference existed among HAK members in cis-acting elements and tissue expression patterns. Wheat had the most orthologous genes to barley HAKs, followed by Brachypodium distachyon, rice and maize. In addition, six barley HAK genes were selected to investigate their expression profiling in response to three abiotic stresses by qRT-PCR, and their expression levels were all up-regulated under salt, hyperosmotic and potassium deficiency treatments. Twenty seven HAK genes (HvHAKs) were identified in barley, and they differ in tissue expression patterns and responses to salt stress, drought stress and potassium deficiency.
Awns are extending structures from lemmas in grasses and are very active in photosynthesis, contributing directly to the filling of the developing grain. Barley (
Cereal crops, such as oats and barley, possess a number of valuable properties that meet the requirements for functional diet components. This review summarized the available information about bioactive compounds of oat and barley grain. The results of studying the structure and physicochemical properties of the cell wall polysaccharides of barley and oat are presented. The main components of the flavonoids formation pathway are shown and data, concerning anthocyanins biosynthesis in various barley tissues, are discussed. Moreover, we analyzed the available information about structural and regulatory genes of anthocyanin biosynthesis in
Seed aging is a complex biological process that has been attracting scientists' attention for many years. High-throughput small RNA sequencing was applied to examine microRNAs contribution in barley seeds senescence. Unique samples of seeds that, despite having the same genetic makeup, differed in viability after over 45 years of storage in a dry state were investigated. In total, 61 known and 81 novel miRNA were identified in dry seeds. The highest level of expression was found in four conserved miRNA families, i.e., miR159, miR156, miR166, and miR168. However, the most astonishing result was the lack of significant differences in the level of almost all miRNAs in seed samples with significantly different viability. This result reveals that miRNAs in dry seeds are extremely stable. This is also the first identified RNA fraction that is not deteriorating along with the loss of seed viability. Moreover, the novel miRNA hvu-new41, with higher expression in seeds with the lowest viability as detected by RT-qPCR, has the potential to become an indicator of the decreasing viability of seeds during storage in a dry state.
Barley has abundant anthocyanin-rich accessions, which renders it an ideal model to investigate the regulatory mechanism of anthocyanin biosynthesis. This study functionally characterized two transcription factors: Ant1 and Ant2. Sequence alignment showed that the coding sequences of
Sucrose nonfermenting-1 (SNF1)-related protein kinases (SnRKs) play important roles in regulating metabolism and stress responses in plants, providing a conduit for crosstalk between metabolic and stress signalling, in some cases involving the stress hormone, abscisic acid (ABA). The burgeoning and divergence of the plant gene family has led to the evolution of three subfamilies, SnRK1, SnRK2 and SnRK3, of which SnRK2 and SnRK3 are unique to plants. Therefore, the study of SnRKs in crops may lead to the development of strategies for breeding crop varieties that are more resilient under stress conditions. In the present study, we describe the SnRK gene family of barley (Hordeum vulgare), the widespread cultivation of which can be attributed to its good adaptation to different environments. The barley HvSnRK gene family was elucidated in its entirety from publicly-available genome data and found to comprise 50 genes. Phylogenetic analyses assigned six of the genes to the HvSnRK1 subfamily, 10 to HvSnRK2 and 34 to HvSnRK3. The search was validated by applying it to Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa) genome data, identifying 50 SnRK genes in rice (four OsSnRK1, 11 OsSnRK2 and 35 OsSnRK3) and 39 in Arabidopsis (three AtSnRK1, 10 AtSnRK2 and 26 AtSnRK3). Specific motifs were identified in the encoded barley proteins, and multiple putative regulatory elements were found in the gene promoters, with light-regulated elements (LRE), ABA response elements (ABRE) and methyl jasmonate response elements (MeJa) the most common. RNA-seq analysis showed that many of the HvSnRK genes responded to ABA, some positively, some negatively and some with complex time-dependent responses. The barley HvSnRK gene family is large, comprising 50 members, subdivided into HvSnRK1 (6 members), HvSnRK2 (10 members) and HvSnRK3 (34 members), showing differential positive and negative responses to ABA.
Flowering plants develop new organs throughout their life cycle. The vegetative shoot apical meristem (SAM) generates leaf whorls, branches and stems, whereas the reproductive SAM, called the inflorescence meristem (IM), forms florets arranged on a stem or an axis. In cereal crops, the inflorescence producing grains from fertilized florets makes the major yield contribution, which is determined by the numbers and structures of branches, spikelets and florets within the inflorescence. The developmental progression largely depends on the activity of IM. The proper regulations of IM size, specification and termination are outcomes of complex interactions between promoting and restricting factors/signals. Here, we focus on recent advances in molecular mechanisms underlying potential pathways of IM identification, maintenance and differentiation in cereal crops, including rice (
Cold acclimation, the necessary prerequisite for promotion of freezing tolerance, is affected by both low temperature and enhanced far-red/red light (FR/R) ratio. The impact of FR supplementation to white light, created by artificial LED light sources, on the hormone levels, metabolism, and expression of the key hormone metabolism-related genes was determined in winter barley at moderate (15 °C) and low (5 °C) temperature. FR-enhanced freezing tolerance at 15 °C was associated with promotion of abscisic acid (ABA) levels, and accompanied by a moderate increase in indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and
The prebiotic effect of high β-glucan barley (HGB) flour on the innate immune system of high-fat model mice was investigated. C57BL/6J male mice were fed a high-fat diet supplemented with HGB flour for 90 days. Secretory immunoglobulin A (sIgA) in the cecum and serum were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA). Real-time PCR was used to determine mRNA expression levels of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-10 and IL-6 in the ileum as well as the composition of the microbiota in the cecum. Concentrations of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and organic acids were analyzed by GC/MS. Concentrations of sIgA in the cecum and serum were increased in the HGB group compared to the control. Gene expression levels of
Climate change, environmental pollution and pathogen resistance to available chemical agents are part of the problems that the food industry has to face in order to ensure healthy food for people and livestock. One of the promising solutions to these problems is the use of cold atmospheric pressure plasma (CAPP). Plasma is suitable for efficient surface decontamination of seeds and food products, germination enhancement and obtaining higher yields in agricultural production. However, the plasma effects vary due to plasma source, treatment conditions and seed type. In our study, we tried to find the proper conditions for treatment of barley grains by diffuse coplanar surface barrier discharge, in which positive effects of CAPP, such as enhanced germination or decontamination effects, would be maximized and harmful effects, such as oxidation and genotoxic potential, minimized. Besides germination parameters, we evaluated DNA damage and activities of various germination and antioxidant enzymes in barley seedlings. Plasma exposure resulted in changes in germination parameters and enzyme activities. Longer exposures had also genotoxic effects. As such, our findings indicate that appropriate plasma exposure conditions need to be carefully optimized in order to preserve germination, oxidation balance and genome stability, should CAPP be used in agricultural practice.
Cereal grains contribute substantially to the human diet. The maternal plant provides the carbohydrate and nitrogen sources deposited in the endosperm, but the basis for their spatial allocation during the grain filling process is obscure. Here, vacuolar processing enzymes have been shown to both mediate programmed cell death (PCD) in the maternal tissues of a barley grain and influence the delivery of assimilate to the endosperm. The proposed centrality of PCD has implications for cereal crop improvement.
The non-protein amino acid γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) has been proposed to be an ancient messenger for cellular communication conserved across biological kingdoms. GABA has well-defined signalling roles in animals; however, whilst GABA accumulates in plants under stress it has not been determined if, how, where and when GABA acts as an endogenous plant signalling molecule. Here, we establish endogenous GABA as a bona fide plant signal, acting via a mechanism not found in animals. Using Arabidopsis thaliana, we show guard cell GABA production is necessary and sufficient to reduce stomatal opening and transpirational water loss, which improves water use efficiency and drought tolerance, via negative regulation of a stomatal guard cell tonoplast-localised anion transporter. We find GABA modulation of stomata occurs in multiple plants, including dicot and monocot crops. This study highlights a role for GABA metabolism in fine tuning physiology and opens alternative avenues for improving plant stress resilience.
A high-quality, barley gene reference transcript dataset (BaRTv1.0), was used to quantify gene and transcript abundances from 22 RNA-seq experiments, covering 843 separate samples. Using the abundance data we developed a Barley Expression Database (EORNA*) to underpin a visualisation tool that displays comparative gene and transcript abundance data on demand as transcripts per million (TPM) across all samples and all the genes. EORNA provides gene and transcript models for all of the transcripts contained in BaRTV1.0, and these can be conveniently identified through either BaRT or HORVU gene names, or by direct BLAST of query sequences. Browsing the quantification data reveals cultivar, tissue and condition specific gene expression and shows changes in the proportions of individual transcripts that have arisen via alternative splicing. TPM values can be easily extracted to allow users to determine the statistical significance of observed transcript abundance variation among samples or perform meta analyses on multiple RNA-seq experiments. * Eòrna is the Scottish Gaelic word for Barley.
Small RNAs (sRNAs) are 20-30 nt regulatory elements which are responsible for plant development regulation and participate in many plant stress responses. Insufficient inorganic phosphate (Pi) concentration triggers plant responses to balance the internal Pi level. In this study, we describe Pi-starvation-responsive small RNAs and transcriptome changes in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) using Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) RNA-Seq data derived from three different types of NGS libraries: (i) small RNAs, (ii) degraded RNAs, and (iii) functional mRNAs. We find that differentially and significantly expressed miRNAs (DEMs, Bonferroni adjusted p-value < 0.05) are represented by 15 molecules in shoot and 13 in root; mainly various miR399 and miR827 isomiRs. The remaining small RNAs (i.e., those without perfect match to reference sequences deposited in miRBase) are considered as differentially expressed other sRNAs (DESs, p-value Bonferroni correction < 0.05). In roots, a more abundant and diverse set of other sRNAs (DESs, 1796 unique sequences, 0.13% from the average of the unique small RNA expressed under low-Pi) contributes more to the compensation of low-Pi stress than that in shoots (DESs, 199 unique sequences, 0.01%). More than 80% of differentially expressed other sRNAs are up-regulated in both organs. Additionally, in barley shoots, up-regulation of small RNAs is accompanied by strong induction of two nucleases (S1/P1 endonuclease and 3'-5' exonuclease). This suggests that most small RNAs may be generated upon nucleolytic cleavage to increase the internal Pi pool. Transcriptomic profiling of Pi-starved barley shoots identifies 98 differentially expressed genes (DEGs). A majority of the DEGs possess characteristic Pi-responsive cis-regulatory elements (P1BS and/or PHO element), located mostly in the proximal promoter regions. GO analysis shows that the discovered DEGs primarily alter plant defense, plant stress response, nutrient mobilization, or pathways involved in the gathering and recycling of phosphorus from organic pools. Our results provide comprehensive data to demonstrate complex responses at the RNA level in barley to maintain Pi homeostasis and indicate that barley adapts to Pi-starvation through elicitation of RNA degradation. Novel P-responsive genes were selected as putative candidates to overcome low-Pi stress in barley plants.
Isochorismate synthase (ICS) is a key enzyme for the synthesis of salicylic acid (SA) in plants. SA mediates plant responses to both biotic and abiotic stresses. In previous studies, we found that overexpression of ICS (ICS
Barley is known to be recalcitrant to tissue culture, which hinders genetic transformation and its biotechnological application. To date, the ideal explant for transformation remains limited to immature embryos; the mechanism underlying embryonic callus formation is elusive. This study aimed to uncover the different transcription regulation pathways between calli formed from immature (IME) and mature (ME) embryos through transcriptome sequencing. We showed that incubation of embryos in an auxin-rich medium caused dramatic changes in gene expression profiles within 48 h. Overall, 9330 and 11,318 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were found in the IME and ME systems, respectively. 3880 DEGs were found to be specific to IME_0h/IME_48h, and protein phosphorylation, regulation of transcription, and oxidative-reduction processes were the most common gene ontology categories of this group. Twenty-three IAA, fourteen ARF, eight SAUR, three YUC, and four PIN genes were found to be differentially expressed during callus formation. The effect of callus-inducing medium (CIM) on IAA genes was broader in the IME system than in the ME system, indicating that auxin response participates in regulating cell reprogramming during callus formation. BBM, LEC1, and PLT2 exhibited a significant increase in expression levels in the IME system but were not activated in the ME system. WUS showed a more substantial growth trend in the IME system than in the ME system, suggesting that these embryonic, shoot, and root meristem genes play crucial roles in determining the acquisition of competency. Moreover, epigenetic regulators, including SUVH3A, SUVH2A, and HDA19B/703, exhibited differential expression patterns between the two induction systems, indicating that epigenetic reprogramming might contribute to gene expression activation/suppression in this process. Furthermore, we examined the effect of ectopic expression of HvBBM and HvWUS on Agrobacterium-mediated barley transformation. The transformation efficiency in the group expressing the PLTPpro:HvBBM + Axig1pro:HvWUS construct was increased by three times that in the control (empty vector) because of enhanced plant regeneration capacity. We identified some regulatory factors that might contribute to the differential responses of the two explants to callus induction and provide a promising strategy to improve transformation efficiency in barley.
Starch is synthesized in the endosperm of developing barley grain, where it functions as the primary source of stored carbohydrate. In germinated grain these starch reserves are hydrolyzed to small oligosaccharides and glucose, which are transported to the embryo to support the growth of the developing seedling. Some of the mobilized glucose is transiently stored as starch in the scutellum of germinated grain. These processes are crucial for early seedling vigor, which is a key determinant of crop productivity and global food security. Several starch synthases (SS), starch-branching enzymes (SBEs), and starch debranching enzymes (isoamylases, ISA), together with a limit dextrinase (LD), have been implicated in starch synthesis from nucleotide-sugar precursors. Starch synthesis occurs both in the developing endosperm and in the scutellum of germinated grain. For the complete depolymerization of starch to glucose, α-amylase (Amy), β-amylase (Bmy), isoamylase (ISA), limit dextrinase (LD), and α-glucosidase (AGL) are required. Most of these enzymes are encoded by gene families of up to 10 or more members. Here RNA-seq transcription data from isolated tissues of intact developing and germinated barley grain have allowed us to identify the most important, specific gene family members for each of these processes
Providing the photosynthesis factory for plants, chloroplasts are critical for crop biomass and economic yield. However, chloroplast development is a complicated process, coordinated by the cross-communication between the nucleus and plastids, and the underlying biogenesis mechanism has not been fully revealed. Variegation mutants have provided ideal models to identify genes or factors involved in chloroplast development. Well-developed chloroplasts are present in the green tissue areas, while the white areas contain undifferentiated plastids that are deficient in chlorophyll. Unlike albino plants, variegation mutants survive to maturity and enable investigation into the signaling pathways underlying chloroplast biogenesis. The allelic variegated mutants in barley, grandpa 1 (gpa1), have long been identified but have not been genetically characterized. We characterized and genetically analyzed the grandpa1.a (gpa1.a) mutant. The chloroplast ultrastructure was evaluated using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and it was confirmed that chloroplast biogenesis was disrupted in the white sections of gpa1.a. To determine the precise position of Gpa1, a high-resolution genetic map was constructed. Segregating individuals were genotyped with the barley 50 k iSelect SNP Array, and the linked SNPs were converted to PCR-based markers for genetic mapping. The Gpa1 gene was mapped to chromosome 2H within a gene cluster functionally related to photosynthesis or chloroplast differentiation. In the variegated gpa1.a mutant, we identified a large deletion in this gene cluster that eliminates a putative plastid terminal oxidase (PTOX). Here we characterized and genetically mapped the gpa1.a mutation causing a variegation phenotype in barley. The PTOX-encoding gene in the delimited region is a promising candidate for Gpa1. Therefore, the present study provides a foundation for the cloning of Gpa1, which will elevate our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying chloroplast biogenesis, particularly in monocot plants.
Barley maiya from gramineous plants (Hordeum vulgare L.) is obtained from ripe fruits through germination and drying. It is often used to treat diseases associated with high prolactin levels. To investigate the anti-hyperprolactinemia (anti-HPRL) mechanisms of total barley maiya alkaloids (TBMA) and hordenine. This experiment included 9 groups: Normal group, TBMA group, hordenine group, TBMA + haloperidol group, TBMA + forskolin group, TBMA + 8-bromo-cAMP group, hordenine + haloperidol group, hordenine + forskolin group, and hordenine + 8-bromo-cAMP group. The prolactin (PRL) concentration in the supernatant and the total cAMP concentration in the cells were detected by ELISA. The expression levels of PRL, dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) and cAMP/PKA/CREB protein were measured by Western Blot. In the TBMA group and the hordenine group, the PRL level in MMQ cells was significantly decreased, but in GH3 cells there was no change. DRD2 expression level was markedly increased, cAMP concentration was decreased, and the activity of PKA and CREB declined in MMQ cells. Compared with the TBMA group, there was a significant decrease of DRD2 expression level, a remarkable increase of PRL secretion and an increase of cAMP/PKA/CREB expression in MMQ cells within the TBMA + haloperidol group. Compared with the forskolin group, there was no significant change in PRL secretion and cAMP/PKA/CREB expression level in MMQ cells within the TBMA + forskolin group. There was a decrease in PRL secretion and cAMP/PKA/CREB expression level in MMQ cells within the TBMA + 8-bromo-cAMP group compared with the 8-bromo-cAMP group. Compared with the hordenine group, DRD2 expression level was significantly decreased, PRL secretion was markedly increased, and cAMP/PKA/CREB expression level was increased in MMQ cells within the hordenine + haloperidol group. There was no significant change in PRL secretion and cAMP/PKA/CREB expression level in MMQ cells within the hordenine + forskolin group compared with the forskolin group and within the hordenine + 8-bromo-cAMP group compared with the 8-bromo-cAMP group. TBMA and hordenine can both play an anti-HPRL role via DRD2, and TBMA can also act on PKA targets to exert its anti-HPRL effect. TBMA and hordenine may be potential treatment strategies for HPRL.
Distinctness, Uniformity and Stability (DUS) is an intellectual property system introduced in 1961 by the International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants (UPOV) for safeguarding the investment and rewarding innovation in developing new plant varieties. Despite the rapid advancement in our understanding of crop biology over the past 60 years, the DUS system has changed little and is still largely dependent upon a set of morphological traits for testing candidate varieties. As the demand for more plant varieties increases, the barriers to registration of new varieties become more acute and thus require urgent review to the system. To highlight the challenges and remedies in the current system, we evaluated a comprehensive panel of 805 UK barley varieties that span the entire history of DUS testing. Our findings reveal the system deficiencies such as inconsistencies in DUS traits across environments, limitations in DUS trait combinatorial space, and inadequacies in currently available DUS markers. We advocate the concept of genomic DUS and provide evidence for a shift towards a robust genomics-enabled registration system for new crop varieties.
Controlled generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is pivotal for normal plant development and adaptation to changes in the external milieu. One of the major enzymatic sources of ROS in plants are the plasma-membrane localized NADPH oxidases, also called as Respiratory Burst Oxidase Homologs (RBOH). In addition to the six previously reported, seven new members of RBOH gene family were identified in barley using
The ASR protein family has been discovered thirty years ago in many plant species and is involved in the tolerance of various abiotic stresses such as dehydration, salinity and heat. Despite its importance, nothing is known about the conserved ABA-Water Deficit Stress Domain (ABA-WDS) of the ASR gene family. In this study, we characterized two ABA-WDS domains, isolated from durum wheat (TtABA-WDS) and barley (HvABA-WDS). Bioinformatics analysis shows that they are both consistently predicted to be intrinsically disordered. Hydrodynamic and circular dichroism analysis indicate that both domains are largely disordered but belong to different structural classes, with HvABA-WDS and TtABA-WDS adopting a PreMolten Globule-like (PMG-like) and a Random Coil-like (RC-like) conformation, respectively. In the presence of the secondary structure stabilizer trifluoroethanol (TFE) or of increasing glycerol concentrations, which mimics dehydration, the two domains acquire an α-helical structure. Interestingly, both domains are able to prevent heat- and dehydration-induced inactivation of the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Furthermore, heterologous expression of TtABA-WDS and HvABA-WDS in the yeast
Co-occurrence of abiotic stresses, especially drought and salinity, is a natural phenomenon in field conditions and is worse for crop production than any single stress. Nowadays, rigorous methods of meta-analysis and systems biology have made it possible to perform cross-study comparisons of single stress experiments, which can uncover main overlapping mechanisms underlying tolerance to combined stress. In this study, a meta-analysis of RNA-Seq data was conducted to obtain the overlapping gene network of drought and salinity stresses in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), which identified Rubisco activase A (RcaA) as a hub gene in the dual-stress response. Thereafter, a greenhouse experiment was carried out using two barley genotypes with different abiotic stress tolerance and evaluated several physiochemical properties as well as the expression profile and protein activity of RcaA. Finally, machine learning analysis was applied to uncover relationships among combined stress tolerance and evaluated properties. We identified 441 genes which were differentially expressed under both drought and salinity stress. Results revealed that the photosynthesis pathway and, in particular, the RcaA gene are major components of the dual-stress responsive transcriptome. Comparative physiochemical and molecular evaluations further confirmed that enhanced photosynthesis capability, mainly through regulation of RcaA expression and activity as well as accumulation of proline content, have a significant association with combined drought and salinity stress tolerance in barley. Overall, our results clarify the importance of RcaA in combined stress tolerance and may provide new insights for future investigations.
Soil drying enhances root ABA accumulation and rhizosheath formation, but whether ABA mediates rhizosheath formation is unclear. Here, we used the ABA-deficient mutant Az34 to investigate molecular and morphological changes by which ABA could affect rhizosheath formation. Mild soil drying with intermittent watering increased rhizosheath formation by promoting root and root hair elongation. Attenuated root ABA accumulation in Az34 barley constrained the promotion of root length and root hair length by drying soil, such that Az34 had a smaller rhizosheath. Pharmacological experiments of adding fluridone (an ABA biosynthesis inhibitor) and ABA to drying soil restricted and enhanced rhizosheath formation respectively in Az34 and wild-type Steptoe barley. RNA sequencing suggested that ABA accumulation mediates auxin synthesis and responses and root and root hair elongation in drying soil. In addition, adding indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) to drying soil increased rhizosheath formation by promoting root and root hair elongation in Steptoe and Az34 barley. Together, these results show that ABA accumulation induced by mild soil drying enhance barley rhizosheath formation, which may be achieved through promoting auxin response.
The impact of reduced rainfall and increased temperatures forecasted by climate change models on plant communities will depend on the capacity of plant species to acclimate and adapt to new environmental conditions. The acclimation process is mainly driven by epigenetic regulation, including structural and chemical modifications on the genome that do not affect the nucleotide sequence. In plants, one of the best-known epigenetic mechanisms is cytosine-methylation. We evaluated the impact of 30% reduced rainfall (hereafter "drought" treatment; D), 3 °C increased air temperature ("warming"; W), and the combination of D and W (WD) on the phenotypic and epigenetic variability of Hordeum murinum subsp. leporinum L., a grass species of high relevance in Mediterranean agroforestry systems. A full factorial experiment was set up in a savannah-like ecosystem located in southwestern Spain. H. murinum exhibited a large phenotypic plasticity in response to climatic conditions. Plants subjected to warmer conditions (i.e., W and WD treatments) flowered earlier, and those subjected to combined stress (WD) showed a higher investment in leaf area per unit of leaf mass (i.e., higher SLA) and produced heavier seeds. Our results also indicated that both the level and patterns of methylation varied substantially with the climatic treatments, with the combination of D and W inducing a clearly different epigenetic response compared to that promoted by D and W separately. The main conclusion achieved in this work suggests a potential role of epigenetic regulation of gene expression for the maintenance of homoeostasis and functional stability under future climate change scenarios.
Inflorescence architecture dictates the number of flowers and, ultimately, seeds. The architectural discrepancies between two related cereals, barley and wheat, are controlled by differences in determinacy of inflorescence and spikelet meristems. Here, we characterize two allelic series of mutations named
We examined whether peripheral leukocytes of mice derived from in vitro αMEM-cultured embryos and exhibiting type 2 diabetes had higher expression of inflammatory-related genes associated with the development of atherosclerosis. Also, we examined the impact of a barley diet on inflammatory gene expression. Adult mice were produced by embryo transfer, after culturing two-cell embryos for 48 h in either α minimal essential media (α-MEM) or potassium simplex optimized medium control media. Mice were fed either a barley or rice diet for 10 weeks. Postprandial blood glucose and mRNA levels of several inflammatory genes, including Tnfa and Nox2, in blood leukocytes were significantly higher in MEM mice fed a rice diet compared with control mice. Barley intake reduced expression of S100a8 and Nox2. In summary, MEM mice exhibited postprandial hyperglycemia and peripheral leukocytes with higher expression of genes related to the development of atherosclerosis, and barley intake reduced some gene expression.
Long-term agricultural practices are assumed to shape the rhizosphere microbiome of crops with implications for plant health. In a long-term field experiment, we investigated the effect of different tillage and fertilization practices on soil and barley rhizosphere microbial communities by means of amplicon sequencing of 16S rRNA gene fragments from total community DNA. Differences in the microbial community composition depending on the tillage practice, but not the fertilization intensity were revealed. To examine whether these soil and rhizosphere microbiome differences influence the plant defense response, barley (cultivar Golden Promise) was grown in field or standard potting soil under greenhouse conditions and challenged with Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh). Amplicon sequence analysis showed that preceding tillage practice, but also aboveground Bgh challenge significantly influenced the microbial community composition. Expression of plant defense-related genes PR1b and PR17b was higher in challenged compared to unchallenged plants. The Bgh infection rates were strikingly lower for barley grown in field soil compared to potting soil. Although previous agricultural management shaped the rhizosphere microbiome, no differences in plant health were observed. We propose therefore that the management-independent higher microbial diversity of field soils compared to potting soils contributed to the low infection rates of barley.
Fusarium crown rot (FCR) is a chronic disease in cereal production worldwide. The impact of this disease is highly environmentally dependant and significant yield losses occur mainly in drought-affected crops. In the study reported here, we evaluated possible relationships between genes conferring FCR resistance and drought tolerance using two approaches. The first approach studied FCR induced differentially expressed genes (DEGs) targeting two barley and one wheat loci against a panel of genes curated from the literature based on known functions in drought tolerance. Of the 149 curated genes, 61.0% were responsive to FCR infection across the three loci. The second approach was a comparison of the global DEGs induced by FCR infection with the global transcriptomic responses under drought in wheat. This analysis found that approximately 48.0% of the DEGs detected one week following drought treatment and 74.4% of the DEGs detected three weeks following drought treatment were also differentially expressed between the susceptible and resistant isolines under FCR infection at one or more timepoints. As for the results from the first approach, the vast majority of common DEGs were downregulated under drought and expressed more highly in the resistant isoline than the sensitive isoline under FCR infection. Results from this study suggest that the resistant isoline in wheat was experiencing less drought stress, which could contribute to the stronger defence response than the sensitive isoline. However, most of the genes induced by drought stress in barley were more highly expressed in the susceptible isolines than the resistant isolines under infection, indicating that genes conferring drought tolerance and FCR resistance may interact differently between these two crop species. Nevertheless, the strong relationship between FCR resistance and drought responsiveness provides further evidence indicating the possibility to enhance FCR resistance by manipulating genes conferring drought tolerance.
Nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich repeat-containing receptors (NLRs) in plants can detect avirulence (AVR) effectors of pathogenic microbes. The Mildew locus a (Mla) NLR gene has been shown to confer resistance against diverse fungal pathogens in cereal crops. In barley, Mla has undergone allelic diversification in the host population and confers isolate-specific immunity against the powdery mildew-causing fungal pathogen Blumeria graminis forma specialis hordei (Bgh). We previously isolated the Bgh effectors AVRA1, AVRA7, AVRA9, AVRA13, and allelic AVRA10/AVRA22, which are recognized by matching MLA1, MLA7, MLA9, MLA13, MLA10 and MLA22, respectively. Here, we extend our knowledge of the Bgh effector repertoire by isolating the AVRA6 effector, which belongs to the family of catalytically inactive RNase-Like Proteins expressed in Haustoria (RALPHs). Using structural prediction, we also identified RNase-like folds in AVRA1, AVRA7, AVRA10/AVRA22, and AVRA13, suggesting that allelic MLA recognition specificities could detect structurally related avirulence effectors. To better understand the mechanism underlying the recognition of effectors by MLAs, we deployed chimeric MLA1 and MLA6, as well as chimeric MLA10 and MLA22 receptors in plant co-expression assays, which showed that the recognition specificity for AVRA1 and AVRA6 as well as allelic AVRA10 and AVRA22 is largely determined by the receptors' C-terminal leucine-rich repeats (LRRs). The design of avirulence effector hybrids allowed us to identify four specific AVRA10 and five specific AVRA22 aa residues that are necessary to confer MLA10- and MLA22-specific recognition, respectively. This suggests that the MLA LRR mediates isolate-specific recognition of structurally related AVRA effectors. Thus, functional diversification of multi-allelic MLA receptors may be driven by a common structural effector scaffold, which could be facilitated by proliferation of the RALPH effector family in the pathogen genome.
Sclerotinia Stem Rot (SSR) caused by the oxalic acid (OA)-secreting necrotrophic fungal pathogen Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, causes significant yields losses in the crop Brassica sps. Oxalate oxidase (OxO) can metabolize OA to CO
Cereal grain develops from fertilised florets. Alterations in floret and grain development greatly influence grain yield and quality. Despite this, little is known about the underlying genetic control of these processes, especially in key temperate cereals such as barley and wheat. Using a combination of near-isogenic mutant comparisons, gene editing and genetic analyses, we reveal that HvAPETALA2 (HvAP2) controls floret organ identity, floret boundaries, and maternal tissue differentiation and elimination during grain development. These new roles of HvAP2 correlate with changes in grain size and HvAP2-dependent expression of specific HvMADS-box genes, including the B-sister gene,
Capsaicin (CAP) is the main pungent component in capsicum fruits. Eating too much CAP leads to gastrointestinal injury. Previously, Qingke β-glucan combined with β-glucan-utilizing Lactobacillus plantarum S58 (LP.S58) ameliorated high fat-diet-induced obesity, but their effects on CAP-induced gastrointestinal injury have not been investigated. Our results showed that Qingke β-glucan reduced the CAP-induced gastrointestinal injury in Kunming mice. The serum levels of inflammatory cytokines and gastrointestinal hormones, and the localized inflammation and the expression of EGF, EGFR, VEGF, and ZO-1 in the gastrointestinal tissues in CAP-treated mice were partly restored by Qingke β-glucan. The CAP-induced increase in the abundances of proinflammatory intestinal bacteria was also reduced by Qingke β-glucan. More importantly, we found that these beneficial effects of Qingke β-glucan were markedly enhanced by β-glucan-utilizing LP.S58 supplementation. Our study indicated that Qingke β-glucan coupled with β-glucan-utilizing LP.S58 relieved CAP-induced gastrointestinal injury.
Mechanisms involved in the de-acclimation of herbaceous plants caused by warm periods during winter are poorly understood. This study identifies the genes associated with this mechanism in winter barley. Seedlings of eight accessions (four tolerant and four susceptible to de-acclimation cultivars and advanced breeding lines) were cold acclimated for three weeks and de-acclimated at 12 °C/5 °C (day/night) for one week. We performed differential expression analysis using RNA sequencing. In addition, reverse-transcription quantitative real-time PCR and enzyme activity analyses were used to investigate changes in the expression of selected genes. The number of transcripts with accumulation level changed in opposite directions during acclimation and de-acclimation was much lower than the number of transcripts with level changed exclusively during one of these processes. The de-acclimation-susceptible accessions showed changes in the expression of a higher number of functionally diverse genes during de-acclimation. Transcripts associated with stress response, especially oxidoreductases, were the most abundant in this group. The results provide novel evidence for the distinct molecular regulation of cold acclimation and de-acclimation. Upregulation of genes controlling developmental changes, typical for spring de-acclimation, was not observed during mid-winter de-acclimation. Mid-winter de-acclimation seems to be perceived as an opportunity to regenerate after stress. Unfortunately, it is competitive to remain in the cold-acclimated state. This study shows that the response to mid-winter de-acclimation is far more expansive in de-acclimation-susceptible cultivars, suggesting that a reduced response to the rising temperature is crucial for de-acclimation tolerance.
Intra-specific variability is a cornerstone of evolutionary success of species. Acquiring genetic material from distant sources is an important adaptive mechanism in bacteria, but it can also play a role in eukaryotes. In this paper, we investigate the nature and evolution of a chromosomal segment of panicoid (Poaceae, Panicoideae) origin occurring in the nuclear genomes of species of the barley genus Hordeum (Pooideae). The segment, spanning over 440 kb in the Asian Hordeum bogdanii and 219 kb in the South American Hordeum pubiflorum, resides on a pair of nucleolar organizer region (NOR)-bearing chromosomes. Conserved synteny and micro-collinearity of the segment in both species indicate a common origin of the segment, which was acquired before the split of the respective barley lineages 5-1.7 million years ago. A major part of the foreign DNA consists of several approximately 68 kb long repeated blocks containing five stress-related protein-coding genes and transposable elements (TEs). Whereas outside these repeats, the locus was invaded by multiple TEs from the host genome, the repeated blocks are rather intact and appear to be preserved. The protein-coding genes remained partly functional, as indicated by conserved reading frames, a low amount of non-synonymous mutations, and expression of mRNA. A screen across Hordeum species targeting the panicoid protein-coding genes revealed the presence of the genes in all species of the section Stenostachys. In summary, our study shows that grass genomes can contain large genomic segments obtained from distantly related species. These segments usually remain undetected, but they may play an important role in the evolution and adaptation of species.
Boron (B) is an essential mineral element for plant growth, and the seed B pool of crops can be crucial when seedlings need to establish on low-B soils. To date, it is poorly understood how B accumulation in grain crops is genetically controlled. Here, we assessed the genotypic variation of the B concentration in grains of a spring barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) association panel that represents broad genetic diversity. We found a large genetic variation of the grain B concentration and detected in total 23 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) using genome-wide association mapping. HvNIP2;2/HvLsi6, encoding a potential B-transporting membrane protein, mapped closely to a major-effect QTL accounting for the largest proportion of grain B variation. Based on transport studies using heterologous expression systems and gene expression analysis, we demonstrate that HvNIP2;2/HvLsi6 represents a functional B channel and that expression variation in its transcript level associates with root and shoot B concentrations as well as with root dry mass formation under B-deficient conditions.
During barley germination, cysteine proteases are essential in the mobilization of storage compounds providing peptides and amino acids to sustain embryo growth until photosynthesis is completely established. Knockdown barley plants, generated by artificial miRNA, for the cathepsins B- and F-like HvPap-19 and HvPap-1 genes, respectively, showed less cysteine protease activities and consequently lower protein degradation. The functional redundancy between proteases triggered an enzymatic compensation associated with an increase in serine protease activities in both knockdown lines, which was not sufficient to maintain germination rates and behaviour. Concomitantly, these transgenic lines showed alterations in the accumulation of protein and carbohydrates in the grain. While the total amount of protein increased in both transgenic lines, the starch content decreased in HvPap-1 knockdown lines and the sucrose concentration was reduced in silenced HvPap-19 grains. Consequently, phenotypes of HvPap-1 and HvPap-19 artificial miRNA lines showed a delay in the grain germination process. These data demonstrate the potential of exploring the properties of barley proteases for selective modification and use in brewing or in the livestock feeding industry.
The albino lemma 1 (alm1) mutants of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) exhibit obvious chlorophyll-deficient hulls. Hulls are seed-enclosing tissues on the spike, consisting of the lemma and palea. The alm1 phenotype is also expressed in the pericarp, culm nodes and basal leaf sheaths, but leaf blades and awns are normal green. A single recessive nuclear gene controls tissue-specific alm1 phenotypic expression. Positional cloning revealed that the ALM1 gene encodes a Golden 2-like (GLK) transcription factor, HvGLK2, belonging to the GARP subfamily of Myb transcription factors. This finding was validated by genetic evidence indicating that all 10 alm1 mutants studied had a lesion in functionally important regions of HvGLK2, including the three alpha-helix domains, an AREAEAA motif and the GCT box. Transmission electron microscopy revealed that, in lemmas of the alm1.g mutant, the chloroplasts lacked thylakoid membranes, instead of stacked thylakoid grana in wild-type chloroplasts. Compared with wild type, alm1.g plants showed similar levels of leaf photosynthesis but reduced spike photosynthesis by 34%. The alm1.g mutant and the alm1.a mutant showed a reduction in 100-grain weight by 15.8% and 23.1%, respectively. As in other plants, barley has HvGLK2 and a paralog, HvGLK1. In flag leaves and awns, HvGLK2 and HvGLK1 are expressed at moderate levels, but in hulls, HvGLK1 expression was barely detectable compared with HvGLK2. Barley alm1/Hvglk2 mutants exhibit more severe phenotypes than glk2 mutants of other plant species reported to date. The severe alm1 phenotypic expression in multiple tissues indicates that HvGLK2 plays some roles that are nonredundant with HvGLK1.
The content and composition of starch in cereal grains are closely related to yield. Few studies have been done on the identification of the genes or loci associated with these traits in barley. This study was conducted to identify the genes or loci controlling starch traits in barley grains, including total starch (TS), amylose (AC) and amylopectin (AP) contents. A large genotypic variation was found in all examined starch traits. GWAS analysis detected 13, 2, 10 QTLs for TS, AC and AP, respectively, and 5 of them were commonly shared by AP and TS content. qTS-3.1, qAC-6.2 and qAP-5.1 may explain the largest variation of TS, AC and AP, respectively. Four putative candidate genes, i.e.,
We profiled the grain oligosaccharide content of 154 two-row spring barley genotypes and quantified 27 compounds, mainly inulin- and neoseries-type fructans, showing differential abundance. Clustering revealed two profile groups where the 'high' set contained greater amounts of sugar monomers, sucrose, and overall fructans, but lower fructosylraffinose. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) identified a significant association for the variability of two fructan types: neoseries-DP7 and inulin-DP9, which showed increased strength when applying a novel compound ratio-GWAS approach. Gene models within this region included three known fructan biosynthesis genes (fructan:fructan 1-fructosyltransferase, sucrose:sucrose 1-fructosyltransferase, and sucrose:fructan 6-fructosyltransferase). Two other genes in this region, 6(G)-fructosyltransferase and vacuolar invertase1, have not previously been linked to fructan biosynthesis and showed expression patterns distinct from those of the other three genes, including exclusive expression of 6(G)-fructosyltransferase in outer grain tissues at the storage phase. From exome capture data, several single nucleotide polymorphisms related to inulin- and neoseries-type fructan variability were identified in fructan:fructan 1-fructosyltransferase and 6(G)-fructosyltransferase genes. Co-expression analyses uncovered potential regulators of fructan biosynthesis including transcription factors. Our results provide the first scientific evidence for the distinct biosynthesis of neoseries-type fructans during barley grain maturation and reveal novel gene candidates likely to be involved in the differential biosynthesis of various types of fructan in barley.
The basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor is one of the most important gene families in plants, playing a key role in diverse metabolic, physiological, and developmental processes. Although it has been well characterized in many plants, the significance of the bHLH family in barley is not well understood at present. Through a genome-wide search against the updated barley reference genome, the genomic organization, evolution and expression of the bHLH family in barley were systematically analyzed. We identified 141 bHLHs in the barley genome ( This study reported the genome organization, evolutionary characteristics and expression profile of the bHLH family in barley, which not only provide the targets for further functional analysis, but also facilitate better understanding of the regulatory network bHLH genes involved in stress tolerance in barley.
Microspore embryogenesis is potentially the most effective method of obtaining doubled haploids (DH) which are utilized in breeding programs to accelerate production of new cultivars. However, the regeneration of albino plants significantly limits the exploitation of androgenesis for DH production in cereals. Despite many efforts, the precise mechanisms leading to development of albino regenerants have not yet been elucidated. The objective of this study was to reveal the genotype-dependent molecular differences in chloroplast differentiation that lead to the formation of green and albino regenerants in microspore culture of barley. We performed a detailed analysis of plastid differentiation at successive stages of androgenesis in two barley cultivars, 'Jersey' and 'Mercada' that differed in their ability to produce green regenerants. We demonstrated the lack of transition from the NEP-dependent to PEP-dependent transcription in plastids of cv. 'Mercada' that produced mostly albino regenerants in microspore culture. The failed NEP-to-PEP transition was associated with the lack of activity of Sig2 gene encoding a sigma factor necessary for transcription of plastid rRNA genes. A very low level of 16S and 23S rRNA transcripts and impaired plastid translation machinery resulted in the inhibition of photomorphogenesis in regenerating embryos and albino regenerants. Furthermore, the plastids present in differentiating 'Mercada' embryos contained a low number of plastome copies whose replication was not always completed. Contrary to 'Mercada', cv. 'Jersey' that produced 90% green regenerants, showed the high activity of PEP polymerase, the highly increased expression of Sig2, plastid rRNAs and tRNA Proplastids present in microspore-derived embryos of albino-producing genotypes did not pass the early checkpoints of their development that are required for induction of further light-dependent differentiation of chloroplasts. The failed activation of plastid-encoded RNA polymerase during differentiation of embryos was associated with the genotype-dependent inability to regenerate green plants in barley microspore culture. The better understanding of molecular mechanisms underlying formation of albino regenerants may be helpful in overcoming the problem of albinism in cereal androgenesis.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is one of the most important cereals worldwide. Although this crop is drought-tolerant, water deficiency negatively affects its growth and production. To detect key genes involved in drought tolerance in barley, a reconstruction of the related gene network and discovery of the hub genes would help. Here, drought-responsive genes in barley were collected through analysis of the available microarray datasets (- 5 ≥ Fold change ≥ 5, adjusted p value ≤ 0.05). Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were reconstructed. The hub genes were identified by Cytoscape software using three Cyto-hubba algorithms (Degree, Closeness, and MNC), leading to the identification of 17 and 16 non-redundant genes at vegetative and reproductive stages, respectively. These genes consist of some transcription factors such as HvVp1, HvERF4, HvFUS3, HvCBF6, DRF1.3, HvNAC6, HvCO5, and HvWRKY42, which belong to AP2, NAC, Zinc-finger, and WRKY families. In addition, the expression pattern of four hub genes was compared between the two studied cultivars, i.e., "Yousef" (drought-tolerant) and "Morocco" (susceptible). The results of real-time PCR revealed that the expression patterns corresponded well with those determined by the microarray. Also, promoter analysis revealed that some TF families, including AP2, NAC, Trihelix, MYB, and one modular (composed of two HD-ZIP TFs), had a binding site in 85% of promoters of the drought-responsive genes and of the hub genes in barley. The identified hub genes, especially those from AP2 and NAC families, might be among key TFs that regulate drought-stress response in barley and are suggested as promising candidate genes for further functional analysis.
The hull-less barley (Qingke) is widely planted as a staple food crop in the Tibetan area, China, and the grains contains high content of β-glucan (BG). The mechanisms of BG synthesis and accumulation in qingke has not been studied at the protein level. This study characterized the proteins associated with BG synthesis and accumulation during qingke seed development. The proteome profiles of qingke seeds taken at 20, 30, and 40 days after flowering were compared using the TMT-based quantitative proteomics. A total of 4283 proteins were identified, with 759 being differentially expressed (DEPs) throughout seed development. Comparisons of protein expression pattern, functions, and pathway enrichment tests highlight cell wall modification, carbon and energy metabolism, polysaccharide metabolism, post-transcriptional modifications, and vesicular transport as critical biological processes related to qingke BG accumulation. Furthermore, induction of starch synthase, starch branching enzyme, pectin acetyl esterases, beta-glucosidases, beta-amylases, 1,4-beta-xylan, xyloglucan, α-amylase inhibitors, and glycosyltransferases underpinned BG synthesis. The results also indicated that the proteins involved in glycolytic, gluconeogenesis, and glyoxylate bypass pathways provided energy and reducing power for BG storage. Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) and quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) analyses confirmed the expression profile of the proteins obtained by TMT-based proteomics. The current results provided an insight into the mechanisms of BG synthesis and accumulation during qingke seed development.
Plants recognize pathogens and activate immune responses, which usually involve massive transcriptional reprogramming. The evolutionarily conserved kinase, Sucrose non-fermenting-related kinase 1 (SnRK1), functions as a metabolic regulator that is essential for plant growth and stress responses. Here, we identify barley SnRK1 and a WRKY3 transcription factor by screening a cDNA library. SnRK1 interacts with WRKY3 in yeast, as confirmed by pull-down and luciferase complementation assays. Förster resonance energy transfer combined with noninvasive fluorescence lifetime imaging analysis indicates that the interaction occurs in the barley nucleus. Transient expression and virus-induced gene silencing analyses indicate that WRKY3 acts as a repressor of disease resistance to the
The mechanisms underlying rootzone-localized responses to salinity during early stages of barley development remain elusive. In this study, we performed the analyses of multi-root-omes (transcriptomes, metabolomes, and lipidomes) of a domesticated barley cultivar (Clipper) and a landrace (Sahara) that maintain and restrict seedling root growth under salt stress, respectively. Novel generalized linear models were designed to determine differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and abundant metabolites (DAMs) specific to salt treatments, genotypes, or rootzones (meristematic Z1, elongation Z2, and maturation Z3). Based on pathway over-representation of the DEGs and DAMs, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis is the most statistically enriched biological pathway among all salinity responses observed. Together with histological evidence, an intense salt-induced lignin impregnation was found only at stelic cell wall of Clipper Z2, compared with a unique elevation of suberin deposition across Sahara Z2. This suggests two differential salt-induced modulations of apoplastic flow between the genotypes. Based on the global correlation network of the DEGs and DAMs, callose deposition that potentially adjusted symplastic flow in roots was almost independent of salinity in rootzones of Clipper, and was markedly decreased in Sahara. Taken together, we propose two distinctive salt tolerance mechanisms in Clipper (growth-sustaining) and Sahara (salt-shielding), providing important clues for improving crop plasticity to cope with deteriorating global soil salinization.
Zinc oxide nanoparticles are one of the most commonly engineered nanomaterials and necessarily enter the environment because of the large quantities produced and their widespread application. Understanding the impacts of nanoparticles on plant growth and development is crucial for the assessment of probable environmental risks to food safety and human health, because plants are a fundamental living component of the ecosystem and the most important source in the human food chain. The objective of this study was to examine the impact of different concentrations of zinc oxide nanoparticles on barley
Cobalt (Co) and copper (Cu) co-exist commonly in the contaminated soils and at excessive levels, they are toxic to plants. However, their joint effect and possible interaction have not been fully addressed. In this work, a hydroponic experiment was performed to investigate the combined effects of Co and Cu on two barley genotypes at transcriptional level by RNA-seq analysis. The results identified 358 genes inclusively expressed in both genotypes under single and combined treatments of Co and Cu, with most of them being related to metal transport, stress response and transcription factor. The combined treatment induced more differently expressed genes (DEGs) than the single treatment, with Yan66, a metal tolerant genotype having more DEGs than Ea52, a sensitive genotype. The pathways associated with anthocyanin biosynthesis, MAPK signaling, glutathione biosynthesis, phenylalanine metabolism, photosynthesis, arginin biosynthesis, fatty acid elongation, and plant hormone signal transduction biosynthesis were induced and inhibited in Yan66 and Ea52, respectively. Furthermore, flavonoid biosynthesis was much more largely enhanced and accordingly more free flavonoid components (naringin, narirutin and neohesperidin) were accumulated in Yan66 than in Ea52. It may be suggested that high tolerance to both Co and Cu in Yan66 is attributed to its high gene regulatory ability.
The unique dietary fiber composition with high contents of β-glucan contributes to the health-promoting properties of oat and barley and may mediate a reduction of colon cancer risk. In the present study, chemopreventive effects of oat and barley (beta
Wild barley accessions have evolved broad-spectrum defence against barley powdery mildew through recessive
We evaluated whether intake of β-glucan-rich barley flour affects expression levels of genes related to glucose and lipid metabolism in the ileum, liver, and adipose tissues of mice fed a high-fat diet. C57BL/6J male mice were fed a high-fat diet supplemented with high β-glucan barley, for 92 days. We measured the expression levels of genes involved in glucose and lipid metabolism in the ileum, liver, and adipose tissues using DNA microarray and q-PCR. The concentration of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) in the cecum was analyzed by GC/MS. The metabolic syndrome indices were improved by barley flour intake. Microarray analysis showed that the expression of genes related to steroid synthesis was consistently decreased in the liver and adipose tissues. The expression of genes involved in glucose metabolism did not change in these organs. In liver, a negative correlation was showed between some SCFAs and the expression levels of mRNA related to lipid synthesis and degradation. Barley flour affects lipid metabolism at the gene expression levels in both liver and adipose tissues. We suggest that SCFAs are associated with changes in the expression levels of genes related to lipid metabolism in the liver and adipose tissues, which affect lipid accumulation.
In China, Hordei Fructus Germinatus (HFG) is the germinated and dried fruit of Hordeum vulgare L, which is commonly used in clinical Chinese medicine. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) theory holds that HFG can be both medicinal and edible, which means that it is derived from food medicine. Raw HFG and roasted HFG are used to treat hypogalactia, hyperprolactinemia and indigestion. In recent years, the lactogenic and galactophygous effects of HFG have attracted increasing attention. Nevertheless, there is much confusion over the use of raw and processed HFG, and the mechanism of its lactogenic effect seems remains poorly understood. This study aimed to explore the lactogenic effect of raw HFG and roasted HFG on rats with overloaded lactation and to reveal the underlying molecular mechanism. Raw and processed HFG water decoctions were given to overloaded lactation model rats at a dose of 1.7800 g kg In vivo experiments demonstrated that the raw HFG water decoction stimulated mammogenesis, accelerated the transformation of the lobular acinar system, resulted in denser mammary epithelial cells and thicker glandular ducts that were full of milk and facilitated the secretion of milk. Moreover, HFG increased PRL, E2, and GH levels, pup body weight, daily lactation and the body weight of lactating rats. Following gene chip identification, KEGG pathway enrichment analysis revealed genes that were highly related to prolactin in the prolactin signaling pathway and JAK-STAT signaling pathway, and the main differentially expressed genes were Jak2 (down), Stat5α (up), cyclin D1 (up), SOCS1 (up), CISH (down) and PRLR (up). Compared with the control group, RT-PCR results indicated that Jak2 and CISH were downregulated and that Stat5α, cyclin D1, SOCS1 and PRLR were upregulated. Western blot assays showed that PRLR, STAT5α and cyclin D1 levels in the mammary glands of the raw HFG water decoction group were significantly increased, which was consistent with the results of cDNA microarray screening. The present study reveals that raw HFG effectively enhances lactation in rats, possibly by influencing the prolactin/JAK-STAT signaling pathway.
CBP20 (Cap-Binding Protein 20) encodes a small subunit of nuclear Cap-Binding Complex (nCBC) that together with CBP80 binds mRNA cap. We previously described barley hvcbp20.ab mutant that demonstrated higher leaf water content and faster stomatal closure than the WT after drought stress. Hence, we presumed that the better water-saving mechanism in hvcbp20.ab may result from the lower permeability of epidermis that together with stomata action limit the water evaporation under drought stress. We asked whether hvcbp20.ab exhibited any differences in wax load on the leaf surface when subjected to drought in comparison to WT cv. 'Sebastian'. To address this question, we investigated epicuticular wax structure and chemical composition under drought stress in hvcbp20.ab mutant and its WT. We showed that hvcbp20.ab mutant exhibited the increased deposition of cuticular wax. Moreover, our gene expression results suggested a role of HvCBP20 as a negative regulator of both, the biosynthesis of waxes at the level of alkane-forming, and waxes transportation. Interestingly, we also observed increased wax deposition in Arabidopsis cbp20 mutant exposed to drought, which allowed us to describe the CBP20-regulated epicuticular wax accumulation under drought stress in a wider evolutionarily context.
Powdery mildew, a common cereal disease caused by the fungus Blumeria graminis, is a major limiting factor of barley production and genetic resistance is the most appropriate protection against it. To aid the breeding of new cultivars and their marketing, resistance genes can be postulated in homogeneous accessions. Although hybrid cultivars (F
Biophoton emission is a well-known phenomenon in living organisms, including plant species; however, the underlying mechanisms are not yet well elucidated. Nevertheless, non-invasive stress detection is of high importance when in plant production and plant research. Therefore, the aim of our work was to investigate, whether biophoton emission is suitable for the detection of cadmium stress in the early phase of stress evolution and to identify certain stress-related events that occur rapidly upon cadmium exposure of barley seedlings parallel to biophoton emission measurements. Changes of biophoton emission, chlorophyll content estimation index, ascorbate level, the activity of ascorbate- and guaiacol peroxidase enzymes and lipid oxidation were measured during seven days of cadmium treatment in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seedlings. The results indicate that the antioxidant enzyme system responded the most rapidly to the stress caused by cadmium and the lipid oxidation-related emission of photons was detected in cadmium-treated samples as early as one day after cadmium exposure. Furthermore, a concentration-dependent increase in biophoton emission signals indicating an increased rate of antioxidative enzymes and lipid oxidation was also possible to determine. Our work shows evidence that biophoton emission is suitable to identify the initial phase of cadmium stress effectively and non-invasively.
The aim of the study was to understand the hydraulic response to salt stress of the root system of the comparatively salt-tolerant crop barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). We focused on the transcellular path of water movement across the root cylinder that involves the crossing of membranes. This path allows for selective water uptake, while excluding salt ions. Hydroponically grown plants were exposed to 100 mM NaCl for 5-7 days and analysed when 15-17 days old. A range of complementary and novel approaches was used to determine hydraulic conductivity (Lp). This included analyses at cell, root and plant level and modelling of water flow. Apoplastic barrier formation and gene expression level of aquaporins (AQPs) was analysed. Salt stress reduced the Lp of root system through reducing water flow along the transcellular path. This involved changes in the activity and gene expression level of AQPs. Modelling of root-Lp showed that the reduction in root-Lp did not require added hydraulic resistances through apoplastic barriers at the endodermis. The bulk of data points to a near-perfect semi-permeability of roots of control plants (solute reflection coefficient σ ~1.0). Roots of salt-stressed plants are almost as semi-permeable (σ > 0.8).
Hulless barley is an important economic and food crop for local population in the Qinghai-Tibet plateau. However, due to extreme weather conditions, its production suffers from stem lodging stress, inflicting significant yield losses. Herein, we selected five lodging resistant and five non-resistant genotypes to investigate changes in concentration of lignin related metabolites and expression levels of related genes in node samples. The lodging resistant genotypes displayed high content of lignin intermediate metabolites. 57% of the expressed genes were differentially expressed (DEG) between the two groups. 31 DEGs participate in the lignin pathways and we found that 65% of these DEGs were strongly up-regulated in the lodging resistant group, indicating a mechanism towards high lignin synthesis within said group. The candidate structural genes as well as the co-expressed TFs identified in this study represent important molecular tools for functional characterization and exploitation in molecular breeding programmes.
Serpins (serine protease inhibitors) constitute one of the largest and most widely distributed superfamilies of protease inhibitors and have been identified in nearly all organisms. To gain significant insights, a comprehensive in silico analysis of the serpin gene family was carried out in the model plant for temperate grasses
Two key barley genes independently control anthesis and senescence timing, enabling the manipulation of grain fill duration, grain size/plumpness, and grain protein concentration. Plant developmental processes such as flowering and senescence have direct effects on cereal yield and quality. Previous work highlighted the importance of two tightly linked genes encoding a glycine-rich RNA-binding protein (HvGR-RBP1) and a NAC transcription factor (HvNAM1), controlling barley anthesis timing, senescence, and percent grain protein. Varieties that differ in HvGR-RBP1 expression, 'Karl'(low) and 'Lewis'(high), also differ in sequence 1 KB upstream of translation start site, including an ~ 400 bp G rich insertion in the 5'-flanking region of the 'Karl' allele, which could disrupt gene expression. To improve malt quality, the (low-grain protein, delayed-senescence) 'Karl' HvNAM1 allele was introgressed into Montana germplasm. After several seasons of selection, the resulting germplasm was screened for the allelic combinations of HvGR-RBP1 and HvNAM1, finding lines combining 'Karl' alleles for both genes (-/-), lines combining 'Lewis' (functional, expressed) HvGR-RBP1 with 'Karl' HvNAM1 alleles ( ±), and lines combining 'Lewis' alleles for both genes (+ / +). Field experiments indicate that the functional ('Lewis,' +) HvGR-RBP1 allele is associated with earlier anthesis and with slightly shorter plants, while the 'Karl' (-) HvNAM1 allele delays maturation. Genotypes carrying the ± allele combination therefore had a significantly (3 days) extended grain fill duration, leading to a higher percentage of plump kernels, slightly enhanced test weight, and lower grain protein concentration when compared to the other allele combinations. Overall, our data suggest an important function for HvGR-RBP1 in the control of barley reproductive development and set the stage for a more detailed functional analysis of this gene.
In cereals, C-repeat binding factor genes have been defined as key components of the light quality-dependent regulation of frost tolerance by integrating phytochrome-mediated light and temperature signals. This study elucidates the differences in the lipid composition of barley leaves illuminated with white light or white light supplemented with far-red light at 5 or 15 °C. According to LC-MS analysis, far-red light supplementation increased the amount of monogalactosyldiacylglycerol species 36:6, 36:5, and 36:4 after 1 day at 5 °C, and 10 days at 15 °C resulted in a perturbed content of 38:6 species. Changes were observed in the levels of phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylserine under white light supplemented with far-red light illumination at 15 °C, whereas robust changes were observed in the amount of several phosphatidylserine species at 5 °C. At 15 °C, the amount of some phosphatidylglycerol species increased as a result of white light supplemented with far-red light illumination after 1 day. The ceramide (42:2)-3 content increased regardless of the temperature. The double-bond index of phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylcholine ceramide together with total double-bond index changed when the plant was grown at 15 °C as a function of white light supplemented with far-red light. white light supplemented with far-red light increased the monogalactosyldiacylglycerol/diacylglycerol ratio as well. The gene expression changes are well correlated with the alterations in the lipidome.
Seed aging is a complex biological process and its fundamentals and mechanisms have not yet been fully recognized. This is a key issue faced by research teams involved in the collection and storage of plant genetic resources in gene banks every day. Transcriptomic changes associated with seed aging in the dry state have barely been studied. The aim of the study was to develop an efficient protocol for construction of RNA-Seq libraries from long-term stored seeds with very low viability and low RNA integrity number (RIN). Here, barley seeds that have almost completely lost their viability as a result of long-term storage were used. As a control, fully viable seeds obtained in the course of field regeneration were used. The effectiveness of protocols dedicated to RNA samples with high and low RIN values was compared. The experiment concluded that library construction from low viable or long-term stored seeds with degraded RNA (RIN < 3) should be carried out with extraordinary attention due to the possibility of uneven degradation of different RNA fractions.
Seeds have evolutionarily developed to store protein without immediately degrading it and constitute ideal tissues for recombinant protein storage. Unfortunately, the production of recombinant protein in seeds is compromised by low yield as compared to other heterologous expression systems. In order to improve the yield of the human epidermal growth factor (EGF) in barley, protein sink-source relations in the developing grain were modulated towards EGF instead of the barley storage protein. The EGF gene, under the control of a B-hordein and a seed-specific oat globulin promoter, was introduced by crossing EGF lines into the Risø 56 mutant deficient in B-hordein storage protein synthesis. Offspring plants were analysed for EGF and Hordein expression and for expression of the unfolded protein response (UPR) genes PDI and CRT to monitor changes in ER stress levels. EGF content was increased significantly in the mature grain of homozygous offspring and PDI and CRT gene expressions were upregulated. We demonstrate, for the first time in barley, that replacement of an abundant seed storage protein with a specific heterologous protein driven by the promoter of the removed gene can accelerate the production of a specific heterologous protein in barley grains.
A family of genes designated as the Zinc finger A20/AN1 Transcription factors encoding stress-associated proteins (SAP) are well described in Arabidopsis and rice, and include 14 AtSAP and 18 OsSAP genes that are associated with variable tolerances to multiple abiotic stresses. The SAP gene family displays a great diversity in its structure and across different plant species. The aim of this study was to identify all HvSAP genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), to analyse the expression of selected genes in response to salinity in barley leaves and develop SNP marker for HvSAP12 to evaluate the association between genotypes of barley plants and their grain yield in field trials. In our study, 17 HvSAP genes were identified in barley, which were strongly homologous to rice genes. Five genes, HvSAP5, HvSAP6, HvSAP11, HvSAP12 and HvSAP15, were found to be highly expressed in leaves of barley plants in response to salt stress in hydroponics compared to controls, using both semi-quantitative RT-PCR and qPCR analyses. The Amplifluor-like SNP marker KATU-B30 was developed and used for HvSAP12 genotyping. A strong association (R A group of HvSAP genes, and HvSAP12 in particular, play an important role in the tolerance of barley plants to salinity and drought, and is associated with higher grain yield in field trials. Marker-assisted selection with SNP marker KATU-B30 can be applied in barley breeding to improve grain yield production under conditions of abiotic stress.
The naked caryopsis character in barley is a domestication-associated trait defined by loss-of-function of the NUD gene. The functional NUD gene encodes an Apetala 2/Ethylene-Response Factor (AP2/ERF) controlling the formation of a cementing layer between pericarp and both lemma and palea. The downstream genes regulated by the NUD transcription factor and molecular mechanism of a cementing layer formation are still not sufficiently described. A naturally occurring 17-kb deletion in the nud locus is associated with the emergence of naked barley. Naked barley has been traditionally used for food and nowadays is considered as a dietary component for functional nutrition. In the present study, we demonstrate that targeted knockout of the NUD gene using RNA-guided Cas9 endonuclease leads to the phenotype conversion from hulled to naked barley. Using in vivo pre-testing systems, highly effective guide RNAs targeting the first exon of the NUD gene were selected. Expression cassettes harboring the cas9 and guide RNA genes were used to transform barley cv. Golden Promise via Agrobacterium-mediated DNA transfer. The recessive naked grain phenotype was observed in 57% of primary transformants, which indicates a frequent occurrence of homozygous or biallelic mutations. T-DNA-free homozygous lines with independently generated mutations in the NUD gene were obtained in the T1 generation. At homozygous state, all obtained mutations including one- and two-amino acid losses with the translational reading frame being retained invariably caused the naked grain phenotype. The hulled and naked barley isogenic lines generated are a perfect experimental model for further studies on pleiotropic consequences of nud mutations on overall plant performance under particular consideration of yield-determining traits. Due to the high β-glucan content of its grains, naked barley is considered as being of particular dietary value. The possibility to convert hulled into naked barley cultivars by targeted mutagenesis allows breeders to extend the potential utilization of barley by the provision of functional food.
Twelve articles (ten research papers and two reviews) included in the Special Issue entitled "Wheat and Barley: Acclimatization to Abiotic and Biotic Stress" are summed up here to present the latest research on the molecular background of adaptation to environmental stresses in two cereal species. Crucial research results were presented and discussed, as they may be of importance in breeding aimed at increasing wheat and barley tolerance to abiotic and biotic stresses.
FLOWERING LOCUS T-like (FT-like) genes control the photoperiodic regulation of flowering in many angiosperm plants. The family of FT-like genes is characterized by extensive gene duplication and subsequent diversification of FT functions which occurred independently in modern angiosperm lineages. In barley, there are 12 known FT-like genes (HvFT), but the function of most of them remains uncharacterized. This study aimed to characterize the role of HvFT4 in flowering time control and development in barley. The overexpression of HvFT4 in the spring cultivar Golden Promise delayed flowering time under long-day conditions. Microscopic dissection of the shoot apical meristem revealed that overexpression of HvFT4 specifically delayed spikelet initiation and reduced the number of spikelet primordia and grains per spike. Furthermore, ectopic overexpression of HvFT4 was associated with floret abortion and with the down-regulation of the barley MADS-box genes VRN-H1, HvBM3, and HvBM8 which promote floral development. This suggests that HvFT4 functions as a repressor of reproductive development in barley. Unraveling the genetic basis of FT-like genes can contribute to the identification of novel breeding targets to modify reproductive development and thereby spike morphology and grain yield.
Grasses have varying inflorescence shapes; however, little is known about the genetic mechanisms specifying such shapes among tribes. Here, we identify the grass-specific TCP transcription factor COMPOSITUM 1 (COM1) expressing in inflorescence meristematic boundaries of different grasses. COM1 specifies branch-inhibition in barley (Triticeae) versus branch-formation in non-Triticeae grasses. Analyses of cell size, cell walls and transcripts reveal barley COM1 regulates cell growth, thereby affecting cell wall properties and signaling specifically in meristematic boundaries to establish identity of adjacent meristems. COM1 acts upstream of the boundary gene Liguleless1 and confers meristem identity partially independent of the COM2 pathway. Furthermore, COM1 is subject to purifying natural selection, thereby contributing to specification of the spike inflorescence shape. This meristem identity pathway has conceptual implications for both inflorescence evolution and molecular breeding in Triticeae.
Seed germination is a critical process for completion of the plant life cycle and for global food production. Comparing the germination transcriptomes of barley (
MicroProteins are small, often single-domain proteins that are sequence-related to larger, often multidomain proteins. Here, we used a combination of comparative genomics and heterologous synthetic misexpression to isolate functional cereal microProtein regulators. Our approach identified LITTLE NINJA (LNJ), a microProtein that acts as a modulator of jasmonic acid (JA) signaling. Ectopic expression of
Mechanosensitive ion channels are pore-forming transmembrane proteins that allow ions to move down their electrochemical gradient in response to mechanical stimuli. They participate in many plant developmental processes including the maintenance of plastid shape, pollen tube growth, etc. Herein, a total of 11, 10, 6, 30, 9, and 8 MSL genes were identified in Aegilops tauschii, Hordeum vulgare, Sorghum bicolor, Triticum aestivum, Triticum urartu, and Zea mays, respectively. These genes were located on various chromosomes of their respective cereal, while MSLs of T. urartu were found on scaffolds. The phylogenetic analysis, subcellular localization, and sequence homology suggested clustering of MSLs into two classes. These genes consisted of cis-regulatory elements related to growth and development, responsive to light, hormone, and stress. Differential expression of various MSL genes in tissue developmental stages and stress conditions revealed their precise role in development and stress responses. Altered expression during CaCl
Some plasma membrane intrinsic protein (PIP) aquaporins can facilitate ion transport. Here we report that one of the 12 barley PIPs (PIP1 and PIP2) tested,
Barley (Hordeum vulgare), one of the most widely cultivated cereal crops, possesses a large genome of 5.1 Gbp. Through various international collaborations, the genome has recently been sequenced and assembled at the chromosome-scale by exploiting available genetic and genomic resources. Many wild and cultivated barley accessions have been collected and preserved around the world. These accessions are crucial to obtain diverse natural and induced barley variants. The barley bioresource project aims to investigate the diversity of this crop based on purified seed and DNA samples of a large number of collected accessions. The long-term goal of this project is to analyse the genome sequences of major barley accessions worldwide. In view of technical limitations, a strategy has been employed to establish the exome structure of a selected number of accessions and to perform high-quality chromosome-scale assembly of the genomes of several major representative accessions. For the future project, an efficient annotation pipeline is essential for establishing the function of genomes and genes as well as for using this information for sequence-based digital barley breeding. In this article, the author reviews the existing barley resources along with their applications and discuss possible future directions of research in barley genomics.
Barley is one of the most important crops in the world. Barley is used as both food and feed and is important for malt production. Demands for malting quality differ among countries and customs. Malting quality is a complex characteristic involving barley genetics, the environmental conditions during barley growth, and the technological parameters of the malting process. In this study, the hypothesis was that there were no differences between two groups of barley varieties with different but defined malting qualities, which was tested using RNA sequencing during selected stages of malting. In total, 919 differentially transcribed genes between the two barley groups were identified and annotated. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were primarily assigned to gene ontology (GO) terms of oxidation-reduction process - oxidoreductase activity, response to stress, carbohydrate metabolic process, and proteolysis - hydrolase activity, and metal ion binding. Genes connected with the plasma membrane and its integral components also play important roles in malting quality. DEG profiles of selected genes in the three malting stages indicate a complex character of malting quality. Many single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and insertions and deletions (indels) were identified. SNPs and indels with the best quality were used for primer design. After optimization and validation, five molecular markers were developed for use in barley breeding.
Thaumatin-like Proteins (TLPs) are known to play a vital role in plant defense, developmental processes and seed germination. We identified 19
Overexpressing a heat shock factor gene (TaHsfA6bT) from wheat provides thermotolerance in barley by constitutive expression of heat and other abiotic stress-response genes. Temperature is one of the most crucial abiotic factors defining the yield potential of temperate cereal crops, such as barley. The regulators of heat shock response (HSR), heat stress transcription factors (Hsfs), modulate the transcription level of heat-responsive genes to protect the plants from heat stress. In this study, an Hsf from wheat (TaHsfA6b) is overexpressed in barley for providing thermotolerance. Transgenic barley lines overexpressing TaHsfA6b showed improvement in thermotolerance. The constitutive overexpression of a TaHsfA6b gene upregulated the expression of major heat shock proteins and other abiotic stress-responsive genes. RNA-seq and qRT-PCR analysis confirmed the upregulation of Hsps, chaperonins, DNAJ, LEA protein genes, and genes related to anti-oxidative enzymes in transgenic lines. Excessive generation and accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) occurred in wild-type (WT) plants during heat stress; however, the transgenic lines reflected improved ROS homeostasis mechanisms, showing lesser ROS accumulation under high temperature. No negative phenotypic changes were observed in overexpression lines. These results suggest that TaHsfA6b is a regulator of HSR and its overexpression altered the expression patterns of some main stress-related genes and enhanced the thermotolerance of this cereal crop.
Cobalt (Co) and copper (Cu) co-exist in the metal contaminated soils and cause the serious toxicity to crops, while their interactive effect on plant growth and development is still poorly understood. In this work, a hydroponic experiment was carried out to reveal the interactive effect of Co and Cu on photosynthesis and metabolite profiles of two barley genotypes differing in metal tolerance. The results showed that both single and combined treatments of Co and Cu caused a significant reduction in chlorophyll content and photosynthetic rate of the two barley (Hordeum vulgare) genotypes, with the effect being greater for the combined treatment and the sensitive genotype (Ea52) being more affected than the tolerant genotype (Yan66). Compared to Cu or Co treatment alone, the combined treatment significantly increased the levels of phenolic components, including cinnamic derivatives (caffeic, chlorogenic, ferullic, p-coumaric); benzoic derivatives (p-hydroxybenzoic, vanillic, syringic, sallicilic, protocatechuic acid) as well as free amino acids, with Yan66 having more accumulation than Ea52. Meanwhile, under the combined treatment, the phenylalanine ammonialyase-related gene (HvPAL) was highly regulated along with the genes involved in the synthesis of malate (HvMDH) and citrate (HvCSY), with Ya66 showing the higher expression of these genes than Ea52. It can be concluded that higher Cu and Co stress tolerance in Yan66 is attributed to more accumulation of the metabolites including phenolics and amino acids.
Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) is a highly conserved kinase present in all eukaryotes and functions as a key regulator of a wide range of physiological and developmental processes. The kinase, known in land plants as GSK3/SHAGGY-like kinase (GSK), is a key player in the brassinosteroid (BR) signaling pathway. The
Two classes of premeiotic (21-nucleotides [nt]) and meiotic (24-nt) phased small interfering RNAs (phasiRNAs) and their patterns of accumulation have been described in maize (
Barley possesses a branchless, spike-shaped inflorescence where determinate spikelets attach directly to the main axis, but the developmental mechanism of spikelet identity remains largely unknown. Here we report the functional analysis of the barley gene BRANCHED AND INDETERMINATE SPIKELET 1 (BDI1), which encodes a TCP transcription factor and plays a crucial role in determining barley inflorescence architecture and spikelet development. The bdi1 mutant exhibited indeterminate spikelet meristems that continued to grow and differentiate after producing a floret meristem; some spikelet meristems at the base of the spike formed two fully developed seeds or converted to branched spikelets, producing a branched inflorescence. Map-based cloning analysis showed that this mutant has a deletion of ~600 kb on chromosome 5H containing three putative genes. Expression analysis and virus-induced gene silencing confirmed that the causative gene, BDI1, encodes a CYC/TB1-type TCP transcription factor and is highly conserved in both wild and cultivated barley. Transcriptome and regulatory network analysis demonstrated that BDI1 may integrate regulation of gene transcription cell wall modification and known trehalose-6-phosphate homeostasis to control spikelet development. Together, our findings reveal that BDI1 represents a key regulator of inflorescence architecture and meristem determinacy in cereal crop plants.
Chlorophyll is the light-harvesting molecule central to the process of photosynthesis. Chlorophyll is synthesized through 15 enzymatic steps. Most of the reactions have been characterized using recombinant proteins. One exception is the formation of the isocyclic E-ring characteristic of chlorophylls. This reaction is catalyzed by the Mg-protoporphyrin IX monomethyl ester cyclase encoded by
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is one of the most important crops in the world, ranking 4th in the worldwide production. Crop breeders are facing increasing environmental obstacles in the field, such as drought, salinity but also toxic over fertilization which not only impacts quality of the grain but also an yield. One of the most prevalent mechanisms of gene expression regulation in plants is microRNA-mediated silencing of target genes. We identified 13 barley microRNAs and 2 microRNAs* that are nitrogen excess responsive. Four microRNAs respond only in root, eight microRNAs only in shoot and one displays broad response in roots and shoots. We demonstrate that 2 microRNAs* are induced in barley shoot by nitrogen excess. For all microRNAs we identified putative target genes and confirmed microRNA-guided cleavage sites for ten out of thirteen mRNAs. None of the identified microRNAs or their target genes is known as nitrogen excess responsive. Analysis of expression pattern of thirteen target mRNAs and their cognate microRNAs showed expected correlations of their levels. The plant microRNAs analyzed are also known to respond to nitrogen deprivation and exhibit the opposite expression pattern when nitrogen excess/deficiency conditions are compared. Thus, they can be regarded as metabolic sensors of the regulation of nitrogen homeostasis in plants.
Rho proteins of plants (ROPs) form a specific clade of Rho GTPases, which are involved in either plant immunity or susceptibility to diseases. They are intensively studied in grass host plants, in which ROPs are signaling hubs downstream of both cell surface immune receptor kinases and intracellular nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat receptors, which activate major branches of plant immune signaling. Additionally, invasive fungal pathogens may co-opt the function of ROPs for manipulation of the cytoskeleton, cell invasion and host cell developmental reprogramming, which promote pathogenic colonization. Strikingly, mammalian bacterial pathogens also initiate both effector-triggered susceptibility for cell invasion and effector-triggered immunity via Rho GTPases. In this review, we summarize central concepts of Rho signaling in disease and immunity of plants and briefly compare them to important findings in the mammalian research field. We focus on Rho activation, downstream signaling and cellular reorganization under control of Rho proteins involved in disease progression and pathogen resistance.
Understanding the control of fertility is critical for crop yield and breeding; this is particularly important for hybrid breeding to capitalize upon the resultant hybrid vigour. Different hybrid breeding systems have been adopted; however, these are challenging and crop specific. Mutants with environmentally reversible fertility offer valuable opportunities for hybrid breeding. The barley HvMS1 gene encodes a PHD-finger transcription factor that is expressed in the anther tapetum, which is essential for pollen development and causes complete male sterility when overexpressed in barley. This male sterility is due at least in part to indehiscent anthers resulting from incomplete tapetum degeneration, failure of anther opening, and sticky pollen under normal growth conditions (15 °C). However, dehiscence and fertility are restored when plants are grown at temperatures >20 °C, or when transferred to >20 °C during flowering prior to pollen mitosis I, with transfer at later stages unable to rescue fertility in vivo. As far as we are aware, this is the first report of thermosensitive male sterility in barley. This offers opportunities to understand the impact of temperature on pollen development and potential applications for environmentally switchable hybrid breeding systems; it also provides a 'female' male-sterile breeding tool that does not need emasculation to facilitate backcrossing.
Promoters serve a critical role in establishing baseline transcriptional capacity through the recruitment of proteins, including transcription factors. Previously, a paucity of data for cis-regulatory elements in plants meant that it was challenging to determine which sequence elements in plant promoter sequences contributed to transcriptional function. In this study, we have identified functional elements in the promoters of plant genes and plant pathogens that utilize plant transcriptional machinery for gene expression. We have established a quantitative experimental system to investigate transcriptional function, investigating how identity, density and position contribute to regulatory function. We then identified permissive architectures for minimal synthetic plant promoters enabling the computational design of a suite of synthetic promoters of different strengths. These have been used to regulate the relative expression of output genes in simple genetic devices.
ABA INSENSITIVE 5 (ABI5) is a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factor which acts in the abscisic acid (ABA) network and is activated in response to abiotic stresses. However, the precise role of barley (
Whole-transcriptome analysis was used to investigate the molecular interplay between three bacterial species that are members of the human gut microbiota.
We report on the homo- and hetero-transglycosylation activities of the HvXET3 and HvXET4 xyloglucan xyloglucosyl transferases (XET; EC 2.4.1.207) from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), and the visualisation of these activities in young barley roots using Alexa Fluor 488-labelled oligosaccharides. We discover that these isozymes catalyse the transglycosylation reactions with the chemically defined donor and acceptor substrates, specifically with the xyloglucan donor and the penta-galacturonide [α(1-4)GalAp]
MicroRNAs control plant development and are key regulators of plant responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. Thus, their expression must be carefully controlled since both excess and deficiency of a given microRNA may be deleterious to plant cell. MicroRNA expression regulation can occur at several stages of their biogenesis pathway. One of the most important of these regulatory checkpoints is transcription efficiency. mirEX database is a tool for exploration and visualization of plant pri-miRNA expression profiles. It includes results obtained using high-throughput RT-qPCR platform designed to monitor pri-miRNA expression in different miRNA biogenesis mutants and developmental stages of Arabidopsis, barley, and Pellia plants. A step-by-step instruction for browsing the database and detailed protocol for high-throughput RT-qPCR experiments, including list of primers designed for the amplification of pri-miRNAs, are presented.
The intestinal epithelium is the first barrier against food contaminants and is highly sensitive to Fusarium toxins, especially deoxynivalenol (DON) and zearalenone (ZEA). Here, we explored the effects of low doses of DON and/or ZEA in naturally moldy diets on intestinal functions in piglets, including inflammatory responses, epithelial barrier, and microbial composition. Piglets were treated with a control diet (CON), DON diet (1000.6 μg/kg), ZEA diet (269.1 μg/kg), and DON + ZEA diet (1007.5 + 265.4 μg/kg), respectively, for 3 weeks and then switched to the same CON diet for another 2 weeks. In the first period, even the selected low doses of DON or ZEA in the diet resulted in intestinal inflammation, diminish protein expression (claudin-4) and altered gut microbiota populations. Whereas upon switching to the CON diet for another 2 weeks, the deleterious effect of ZEA and DON on IL-1β and Bifidobacterium population could not be recovered. Additionally, combined DON and ZEA negatively affected body weight gain and feed consumption of piglets, as well as shown synergistic effects on evoking pro-inflammatory cytokines contents (TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6) and perturbing the cecum microbiota profile (E. coli, Lactobacillus, and Bifidobacterium). Collectively, chronic consumption of DON and ZEA contaminated feed or food, even at low doses, can induce intestinal damage and may have consequences for animal and human health.
Potassium (K+) is the major cationic inorganic nutrient utilized for osmotic regulation, cell growth, and enzyme activation in plants. Inwardly rectifying K+ channel 1 (AKT1) is the primary channel for root K+ uptake in plants, but the function of HvAKT1 in barley plants under drought stress has not been fully elucidated. In this study, we conducted evolutionary bioinformatics, biotechnological, electrophysiological, and biochemical assays to explore molecular mechanisms of HvAKT1 in response to drought in barley. The expression of HvAKT1 was significantly up-regulated by drought stress in the roots of XZ5-a drought-tolerant wild barley genotype. We isolated and functionally characterized the plasma membrane-localized HvAKT1 using Agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation and Barley stripe mosaic virus-induced gene silencing of HvAKT1 in barley. Evolutionary bioinformatics indicated that the K+ selective filter in AKT1 originated from streptophyte algae and is evolutionarily conserved in land plants. Silencing of HvAKT1 resulted in significantly decreased biomass and suppressed K+ uptake in root epidermal cells under drought treatment. Disruption of HvAKT1 decreased root H+ efflux, H+-ATPase activity, and nitric oxide (NO) synthesis, but increased hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) production in the roots under drought stress. Furthermore, we observed that overexpression of HvAKT1 improves K+ uptake and increases drought resistance in barley. Our results highlight the importance of HvAKT1 for root K+ uptake and its pleiotropic effects on root H+-ATPase, and H2O2 and NO in response to drought stress, providing new insights into the genetic basis of drought tolerance and K+ nutrition in barley.
The brittle rachis trait is a feature of many wild grasses, particularly within the tribe Triticeae. Wild Hordeum and Triticum species form a disarticulation layer above the rachis node, resulting in the production of wedge-type dispersal units. In Aegilops longissima, only one or two of the nodes in the central portion of its rachis are brittle. In Triticeae species, the formation of a disarticulation layer above the rachis node requires the co-transcription of the two dominant and complementary genes Btr1 and Btr2. This study aims to establish whether homologues of Btr1 and/or Btr2 underlie the unusual brittle rachis phenotype observed in Ae. longissima. Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine the disarticulation surfaces. Quantitative RT-PCR and RNA in situ hybridization experiments were used to identify gene expression in the immature inflorescence. Analysis based on scanning electron microscopy was able to demonstrate that the disarticulation surfaces formed in the Ae. longissima rachis are morphologically indistinguishable from those formed in the rachises of wild Hordeum and Triticum species. RNA in situ hybridization showed that in the immature Ae. longissima inflorescence, the intensity of Btr1 transcription varied from high at the rachis base to low at its apex, while that of Btr2 was limited to the nodes in the central to distal portion of the rachis. The disarticulation pattern shown by Ae. longissima results from the limitation of Btr1 and Btr2 co-expression to nodes lying in the centre of the rachis.
Aluminum (Al) stress in acid soils is one of the major factors limiting crop productivity. ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporters have numerous roles in plants, but the link between ABCB protein subfamily and plant Al tolerance is still elusive. Here, we identiﬁed and characterized a novel tonoplast HvABCB25 in barley root cells. HvABCB25 was up-regulated in the transcriptome of Al-tolerant wild barley XZ16 under Al treatment and was highly Al-inducible in root tips. ABCB25 is originated from Streptophyte algae and evolutionarily conserved in land plants. Moreover, silencing HvABCB25 in Al-tolerant XZ16 led to significant suppression of Al tolerance as indicated by significantly reduced root growth and enhanced Al accumulation in root cells. Conversely, HvABCB25-overexpressed plants and Golden Promise showed similar Al content in whole roots and in cell sap, but the overexpression lines exhibited significantly higher Al-induced relative root growth and dry weight. Al florescence in cytosol of root cells were significantly less in overexpression lines than that in GP. These results indicated that overexpressing HvABCB25 may be responsible for Al detoxification via vacuolar Al sequestration in barley roots, providing useful insight into the genetic basis for a new Al detoxification mechanism towards plant Al tolerance in acid soils.
Potassium retention under saline conditions has emerged as an important determinant for salt tolerance in plants. Halophytic
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major abiotic stress that restricts crop production in acid soils. Plants have evolved internal and external mechanisms of tolerance, and among them it is well known that AtSTOP1 and OsART1 are key transcription factors involved in tolerance through regulation of multiple downstream genes. Here, we identified the closest homolog of these two proteins in barley, namely HvATF1, Al-tolerance Transcription Factor 1, and determined its potential function in Al stress. HvATF1 is expressed in the nucleus, and functions in transcriptional activation. The transcription of HvATF1 was found to be constitutive in different tissues, and was little affected by Al stress. Knockdown of HvATF1 by RNAi resulted in increased Al sensitivity. Transcriptomics analysis identified 64 differently expressed genes in the RNAi lines compared to the wild-type, and these were considered as candidate downstream genes regulated by HvATF1. This study provides insights into the different molecular mechanisms of Al tolerance in barley and other plants.
This review synthesizes knowledge on epigenetic regulation of leaf senescence and discusses the possibility of using this knowledge to improve crop quality. This control level is implemented by different but interacting epigenetic mechanisms, including DNA methylation, covalent histone modifications, and non-covalent chromatin remodeling. The genetic and epigenetic changes may act alone or together and regulate the gene expression, which may result in heritable (stress memory) changes and may lead to crop survival. In the review, the question also arises whether the mitotically stable epigenetic information can be used for crop improvement. The barley crop model for early and late events of dark-induced leaf senescence (DILS), where the point of no return was defined, revealed differences in DNA and RNA modifications active in DILS compared to developmental leaf senescence. This suggests the possibility of a yet-to-be-discovered epigenetic-based switch between cell survival and cell death. Conclusions from the analyzed research contributed to the hypothesis that chromatin-remodeling mechanisms play a role in the control of induced leaf senescence. Understanding this mechanism in crops might provide a tool for further exploitation toward sustainable agriculture: so-called epibreeding.
Production of homozygous lines derived from transgenic plants is one of the important steps for phenotyping and genotyping transgenic progeny. The selection of homozygous plants is a tedious process that can be significantly shortened by androgenesis, cultivation of anthers, or isolated microspores. Doubled haploid (DH) production achieves complete homozygosity in one generation. We obtained transgenic homozygous DH lines from six different transgenic events by using anther culture. Anthers were isolated from T0 transgenic primary regenerants and cultivated in vitro. The ploidy level was determined in green regenerants. At least half of the 2n green plants were transgenic, and their progeny were shown to carry the transgene. The process of dihaploidization did not affect the expression of the transgene. Embryo cultures were used to reduce the time to seed of the next generation. The application of these methods enables rapid evaluation of transgenic lines for gene function studies and trait evaluation.
The increasing demand for global food security in the face of a warming climate is leading researchers to investigate the physiological and molecular responses of cereals to rising ambient temperatures. Wheat and barley are temperate cereals whose yields are adversely affected by high ambient temperatures, with each 1 °C increase above optimum temperatures reducing productivity by 5-6%. Reproductive development is vulnerable to high-temperature stress, which reduces yields by decreasing grain number and/or size and weight. In recent years, analysis of early inflorescence development and genetic pathways that control the vegetative to floral transition have elucidated molecular processes that respond to rising temperatures, including those involved in the vernalization- and photoperiod-dependent control of flowering. In comparison, our understanding of genes that underpin thermal responses during later developmental stages remains poor, thus highlighting a key area for future research. This review outlines the responses of developmental genes to warmer conditions and summarizes our knowledge of the reproductive traits of wheat and barley influenced by high temperatures. We explore ways in which recent advances in wheat and barley research capabilities could help identify genes that underpin responses to rising temperatures, and how improved knowledge of the genetic regulation of reproduction and plant architecture could be used to develop thermally resilient cultivars.
Photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) affects transpirational water loss, yet we do not know through which mechanisms root water uptake is adjusted in parallel. Here, we exposed hydroponically grown barley plants to three levels of PAR [Normal (control), Low, High] and focused on the role which aquaporins (AQPs), apoplastic barriers (Casparian bands, suberin lamellae) and root morphology play in the adjustment of root hydraulic conductivity (Lp). Plants were analyzed when they were 14-18 days (d) old. Root and cell Lp, which involves AQP activity, was determined through exudation and cell pressure probe measurements, respectively. Gene expression of AQPs was analyzed through qPCR. The formation of apoplastic barriers was studied through staining of cross-sections. The rate of transpirational water loss per plant and unit leaf area increased in response to high-PAR and decreased in response to low-PAR treatments, both during day and night. Hydraulic conductivity in roots decreased significantly at organ and cell level in response to Low-PAR, and increased (organ) or did not change (cell level) in response to High-PAR. The formation of apoplastic barriers was little affected by PAR. Gene expression of AQPs tended to be highest in the Low-PAR treatment. Lateral roots, showing few apoplastic barriers, contributed the least in Low- and the most to root surface area in High-PAR plants. It is concluded that barley plants which experience changes in shoot transpirational water loss in response to PAR adjust root water uptake through changes in root Lp, and that these changes are mediated through altered AQP activity and root morphology.
Polyol transporters (PLTs), also called polyol/monosaccharide transporters, is of significance in determining plant development and sugar transportation. However, the diverged evolutionary patterns of the
The present work focused on the characterization of some physiological mechanisms activated upon powdery mildew inoculation of the susceptible barley cultivar Ingrid and its near-isogenic lines (NILs) carrying various resistant genes (
Powdery mildew is an important foliar disease of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) caused by the biotrophic fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh). The understanding of the resistance mechanism is essential for future resistance breeding. In particular, the identification of race-nonspecific resistance genes is important because of their regarded durability and broad-spectrum activity. We assessed the severity of powdery mildew infection on detached seedling leaves of 267 barley accessions using two poly-virulent isolates and performed a genome-wide association study exploiting 201 of these accessions. Two-hundred and fourteen markers, located on six barley chromosomes are associated with potential race-nonspecific Bgh resistance or susceptibility. Initial steps for the functional validation of four promising candidates were performed based on phenotype and transcription data. Specific candidate alleles were analyzed via transient gene silencing as well as transient overexpression. Microarray data of the four selected candidates indicate differential regulation of the transcription in response to Bgh infection. Based on our results, all four candidate genes seem to be involved in the responses to powdery mildew attack. In particular, the transient overexpression of specific alleles of two candidate genes, a potential arabinogalactan protein and the barley homolog of Arabidopsis thaliana's Light-Response Bric-a-Brac/-Tramtrack/-Broad Complex/-POxvirus and Zinc finger (AtLRB1) or AtLRB2, were top candidates of novel powdery mildew susceptibility genes.
Abscisic acid (ABA) is well-known phytohormone involved in the control of plant natural developmental processes, as well as the stress response. Although in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) its role in mechanism of the tolerance to most common abiotic stresses, such as drought, salinity, or extreme temperatures seems to be fairly well recognized, not many authors considered that changes in ABA content may also influence the sensitivity of cereals to adverse environmental factors, e.g., by accelerating senescence, lowering pollen fertility, and inducing seed dormancy. Moreover, recently, ABA has also been regarded as an element of the biotic stress response; however, its role is still highly unclear. Many studies connect the susceptibility to various diseases with increased concentration of this phytohormone. Therefore, in contrast to the original assumptions, the role of ABA in response to biotic and abiotic stress does not always have to be associated with survival mechanisms; on the contrary, in some cases, abscisic acid can be one of the factors that increases the susceptibility of plants to adverse biotic and abiotic environmental factors.
Seed germination is a multi-staged complex process during seed plant life cycle, and it is tightly regulated through a coordinated expression of diverse genes in diverse tissues. As regulatory molecules of gene expression, determination of transcription factors is crucial to understanding molecular basis and regulatory network of germination process and seedling establishment. However, limited data on the contributions of these transcription factors to the germination of crop barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) are available. Here, we investigated the expression profiles of selected transcription factors from different families (DOF, MYB and TCP) with qRT-PCR analysis in various tissues including coleoptiles, leaves and roots following the germination. Analysis of MYB and DOF gene expression profiles indicated that there were differing expressions in different aged tissues, HvMYB5 and HvDOF2 being the most outstanding one in the oldest tissue, 15-day-old root. On the other hand, investigated TCP genes were lowly expressed compared to selected MYB and DOF genes, except HvTCP3, where the highest expression was observed in 15-day-old root tissue. The obtained expression profiles illustrate the importance of potential regulatory roles of transcription factors in early developmental stages of barley germination and seedling establishment.
Drought and salinity are two of the most frequently co-occurring abiotic stresses. Despite recent advances in the elucidation of the effects of these stresses individually during the vegetative stage of plants, significant gaps exist in our understanding of the combined effects of these two frequently co-occurring stresses. Here, Tibetan wild barley XZ5 (drought tolerant), XZ16 (salt tolerant), and cultivated barley
Aux/IAA genes are early auxin-responsive genes and essential for auxin signaling transduction. There is little information about Aux/IAAs in the agriculturally important cereal, barley. Using in silico method, we identified and subsequently characterized 36 Aux/IAAs from the barley genome. Based on their genomic sequences and the phylogenic relationship with Arabidopsis and rice Aux/IAA, the 36 HvIAAs were categorized into two major groups and 14 subgroups. The indication of the presence or absence of these domains for the biological functions and acting mechanisms was discussed. The cis-element distributions in HvIAA promoters suggests that the HvIAAs expressions may not only regulated by auxin (the presence of AuxREs and TGA-element) but also by other hormones and developmental and environmental cues. We then studied the HvIAAs expression in response to NAA (1-Naphthaleneacetic acid) using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Like the promoter analysis, only 14 HvIAAs were upregulated by NAA over two-fold at 4 h. HvIAAs were clustered into three groups based on the spatiotemporal expression data. We confirmed by qRT-PCR that most HvIAAs, especially HvIAA3, HvIAA7, HvIAA8, HvIAA18, HvIAA24 and HvIAA34, are expressed in the developing barley spike compared within seedling, suggesting their roles in regulating spike development. Taken together, our data provide a foundation for further revealing the biological function of these HvIAAs.
Modulation of traits beneficial for cultivation and yield is one of the main goals of crop improvement. One of the targets for enhancing productivity is changing the architecture of inflorescences since in many species it determines fruit and seed yield. Inflorescence shape and organization is genetically established during the early stages of reproductive development and depends on the number, arrangement, activities, and duration of meristems during the reproductive phase of the plant life cycle. Despite the variety of inflorescence architectures observable in nature, many key aspects of inflorescence development are conserved among different species. For instance, the genetic network in charge of specifying the identity of the different reproductive meristems, which can be indeterminate or determinate, seems to be similar among distantly related species. The availability of a large number of published transcriptomic datasets for plants with different inflorescence architectures, allowed us to identify transcription factor gene families that are differentially expressed in determinate and indeterminate reproductive meristems. The data that we review here for Arabidopsis, rice, barley, wheat, and maize, particularly deepens our knowledge of their involvement in meristem identity specification.
Jasmonates modulate many growth and developmental processes and act as stress hormones that play an important role in plant tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses. Therefore, there is a need to identify the genes that are regulated through the jasmonate signalling pathway. Aquaporins, and among them the Tonoplast Intrinsic Proteins (TIPs), form the channels in cell membranes that are responsible for the precise regulation of the movement of water and other substrates between cell compartments. We identified the
Phenolics are important secondary metabolites in plants with strong antioxidant effects. Seeds germination and exogenous stimulation could activate endogenous enzymes to enhance the content of phenolic acids and flavonoids. Barley seeds geminated under NaCl (1-20 mM) treatment to evaluate the accumulation of phenolics in this study. Results showed that NaCl treatment significantly enhanced the growth of seedlings, especially bud length. NaCl treatment up-regulated genes and proteins expression of phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), cinnamate-4-hydroxylase (C4H) and 4-coumarate-CoA ligase (4CL), resulting in the enhancement of their activities. As a result, phenolic acids and flavonoids contents increased by 11.19% and 32.54%, respectively, in which gallic acid, protocatechuic, fisetin, myricetin and quercetin were affected mostly. Moreover, NaCl treatment enhanced 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS) and 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) free radical scavenging capacity. Hence, NaCl stimulated the synthesis of phenolic components via enhancing gene, protein expression and the activity of key enzymes.
Fusarium head blight (FHB) caused by Fusarium graminearum (Fg) is a devastating disease of crops, especially wheat and barley, resulting in significant yield loss and reduced grain quality. Fg infection leads to the production of mycotoxins, whose consumption is toxic to humans and livestock. The Arabidopsis DMR6 gene encodes a putative 2-oxoglutarate Fe(II)-dependent oxygenase (2OGO) and has been identified as a susceptibility factor to downy mildew. We generated site-specific mutations in Arabidopsis At2OGO by CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing. The resulting At2OGO knock-out (KO) mutants display enhanced resistance to Fg in a detached inflorescence infection assay. Expression profiling of defense genes revealed that impairment of At2OGO function resulted in the upregulation of defense genes that are regulated by salicylic acid (SA), jasmonic acid (JA) and ethylene (ET) pathways. Complementation of the At2OGO-KO lines with a barley (cv. Conlon) orthologue, Hv2OGO, restored susceptibility to Fg. This result indicates that the Hv2OGO gene is functionally equivalent to its Arabidopsis counterpart and, hence, may have a similar role in conditioning susceptibility to FHB in barley. These results provide a molecular basis for proposing 2OGO as a plant immunity suppressor in Arabidopsis and potentially in barley plants and establish a rationale and strategy for enhancing FHB resistance in barley.
This study investigates the impact of an engineered magnetic nanoparticle (MNP) on a crop plant. For this purpose, a sonochemical synthetic approach was utilized in order to dope magnetic elements (Co and Nd) into technologically important iron oxide NPs. After being characterized by using TEM, SEM, and XRD instruments, the MNPs were hydroponically applied to barley plants with varying doses (from 125 to 1000 mg/L) both in germination (4 days) and early growing stages (3 weeks). Physiological responses, as well as expression of photosystem marker genes, were assessed. Compared to the untreated control, MNP treatment enhanced germination rate (~ 31%), tissue growth (8% in roots, 16% in shoots), biomass (~ 21%), and chlorophyll (a, b) (~ 20%), and carotenoids (~ 22%) pigments. In general, plants showed the highest growth enhancement at 125 or 250 mg/L treatment. However, higher doses diminished the growth indices. Compared to the control, the catalase activity was significantly reduced in the leaves (~ 33%, p < 0.005) but stimulated in the roots (~ 46%, p < 0.005). All tested photosystem marker genes (BCA, psbA, and psaA) were overexpressed in MNP-treated leaves than non-treated control. Moreover, the gene expressions were found to be proportionally increased with increasing MNP doses, indicating a positive correlation between MNPs and the photosynthetic machinery, which could contribute to the enhancement of plant growth.
Cereal endosperm represents the most important source of the world's food; nevertheless, the molecular mechanisms underlying cell and tissue differentiation in cereal grains remain poorly understood. Endosperm cellularization commences at the maternal-filial intersection of grains and generates endosperm transfer cells (ETCs), a cell type with a prominent anatomy optimized for efficient nutrient transport. Barley HISTIDINE KINASE1 (HvHK1) was identified as a receptor component with spatially restricted expression in the syncytial endosperm where ETCs emerge. Here, we demonstrate its function in ETC fate acquisition using RNA interference-mediated downregulation of HvHK1. Repression of HvHK1 impairs cell specification in the central ETC region and the development of transfer cell morphology, and consecutively defects differentiation of adjacent endosperm tissues. Coinciding with reduced expression of HvHK1, disturbed cell plate formation and fusion were observed at the initiation of endosperm cellularization, revealing that HvHK1 triggers initial cytokinesis of ETCs. Cell-type-specific RNA sequencing confirmed loss of transfer cell identity, compromised cell wall biogenesis and reduced transport capacities in aberrant cells and elucidated two-component signaling and hormone pathways that are mediated by HvHK1. Gene regulatory network modeling was used to specify the direct targets of HvHK1; this predicted non-canonical auxin signaling elements as the main regulatory links governing cellularization of ETCs, potentially through interaction with type-B response regulators. This work provides clues to previously unknown molecular mechanisms directing ETC specification, a process with fundamental impact on grain yield in cereals.
Nonhost resistance, a resistance of plant species against all nonadapted pathogens, is considered the most durable and efficient immune system in plants. To increase our understanding of the response of barley plants to infection by powdery mildew, Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici, we used quantitative proteomic analysis (LC-MS/MS). We compared the response of two genotypes of barley cultivar Golden Promise, wild type (WT) and plants with overexpression of phytoglobin (previously hemoglobin) class 1 (HO), which has previously been shown to significantly weaken nonhost resistance. A total of 8804 proteins were identified and quantified, out of which the abundance of 1044 proteins changed significantly in at least one of the four comparisons ('i' stands for 'inoculated')- HO/WT and HOi/WTi (giving genotype differences), and WTi/WT and HOi/HO (giving treatment differences). Among these differentially abundant proteins (DAP) were proteins related to structural organization, disease/defense, metabolism, transporters, signal transduction and protein synthesis. We demonstrate that quantitative changes in the proteome can explain physiological changes observed during the infection process such as progression of the mildew infection in HO plants that was correlated with changes in proteins taking part in papillae formation and preinvasion resistance. Overexpression of phytoglobins led to modification in signal transduction prominently by dramatically reducing the number of kinases induced, but also in the turnover of other signaling molecules such as phytohormones, polyamines and Ca
The coalescence of protein storage vacuoles (PSVs) is one of the most prominent cellular changes occurring in cereal aleurone cells during germination. This structural change is highly coupled with the functional transition of this organelle from a storage compartment to a lytic section. Gibberellic acid (GA) promotes this process, whereas abscisic acid (ABA) prevents it. Previously, we demonstrated that ABA-inducible HvTIP3;1 plays a decisive role in ABA-mediated prevention of PSV fusion. In this follow-up study, we examined whether the aquaporin activity of tonoplast intrinsic protein (TIP) is related to its preventive effect on PSV fusion using various functional mutants. The defective forms of aquaporin (HvTIP3;1m and HvTIP3;1ΔNPA-GFPs for HvTIP3;1, and HvTIP1;2m for HvTIP1;2) were found to be less effective than the usual form in delaying the PSV fusion process occurring in GA-treated cells. In contrast, overexpression of HvTIP3;1m reduced the preventive effect of ABA on PSV fusion. Upon inhibition of aquaporin activity using mercury, PSV fusion occurred to a greater extent in ABA-treated barley protoplasts. These data suggest that the aquaporin activity of TIP is involved in the deterrent effect of TIP on PSV coalescence. TIP3-GFP barley transgenic seeds showed prolonged expression of the TIP3;1 transcript. Moreover, PSV fusion progressed at a much slower rate compared to wild type. Additionally, the degradation of storage proteins was not as efficient, suggesting that a metamorphic transition of PSVs to lytic organelles is closely correlated with the disappearance of HvTIPs and the PSV fusion process.
Strigolactones (SLs) are a group of plant hormones involved in many aspects of plant development and stress adaptation. Here, we investigated the drought response of a barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) mutant carrying a missense mutation in the gene encoding the SL-specific receptor HvD14. Our results clearly showed that hvd14.d mutant is hyper-sensitive to drought stress. This was illustrated by a lower leaf relative water content (RWC), impaired photosynthesis, disorganization of chloroplast structure, altered stomatal density and slower closure of stomata in response to drought in the mutant compared to the wild type parent cultivar Sebastian. Although the content of abscisic acid (ABA) and its derivatives remained unchanged in the mutant, significant differences in expression of genes related to ABA biosynthesis were observed. Moreover, hvd14.d was insensitive to ABA during seed germination. Analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana mutant atd14-1 also demonstrated that mutation in the SL receptor resulted in increased sensitivity to drought. Our results indicate that the drought-sensitive phenotype of barley SL mutant might be caused by a disturbed ABA metabolism and/or signalling pathways. These results together uncovered a link between SL signalling and ABA-dependent drought stress response in barley.
Drought impairs growth and spike development, and is therefore a major cause of yield losses in the temperate cereals barley and wheat. Here, we show that the photoperiod response gene PHOTOPERIOD-H1 (Ppd-H1) interacts with drought stress signals to modulate spike development. We tested the effects of a continuous mild and a transient severe drought stress on developmental timing and spike development in spring barley cultivars with a natural mutation in ppd-H1 and derived introgression lines carrying the wild-type Ppd-H1 allele from wild barley. Mild drought reduced the spikelet number and delayed floral development in spring cultivars but not in the introgression lines with a wild-type Ppd-H1 allele. Similarly, drought-triggered reductions in plant height, and tiller and spike number were more pronounced in the parental lines compared with the introgression lines. Transient severe stress halted growth and floral development; upon rewatering, introgression lines, but not the spring cultivars, accelerated development so that control and stressed plants flowered almost simultaneously. These genetic differences in development were correlated with a differential down-regulation of the flowering promotors FLOWERING LOCUS T1 and the BARLEY MADS-box genes BM3 and BM8. Our findings therefore demonstrate that Ppd-H1 affects developmental plasticity in response to drought in barley.
The molecular bases of aphid virulence to aphid crop plant resistance genes are poorly understood. The Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia, (Kurdjumov), and the greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), are global pest of cereal crops. Each species damages barley, oat, rye and wheat, but S. graminum includes fescue, maize, rice and sorghum in its host range. This study was conducted to compare and contrast the transcriptomes of S. graminum biotype I and D. noxia biotype 1 when each ingested phloem from leaves of varieties of bread wheat, Triticum aestivum L., containing no aphid resistance (Dn0), resistance to D. noxia biotype 1 (Dn4), or resistance to both D. noxia biotype 1 and S. graminum biotype I (Dn7, wheat genotype 94M370). Gene ontology enrichments, k-means analysis and KEGG pathway analysis indicated that 94M370 plants containing the Dn7 D. noxia resistance gene from rye had stronger effects on the global transcriptional profiles of S. graminum and D. noxia relative to those fed Dn4 plants. S. graminum responds to ingestion of phloem sap from 94M370 plants by expression of unigenes coding for proteins involved in DNA and RNA repair, and delayed tissue and structural development. In contrast, D. noxia displays a completely different transcriptome after ingesting phloem sap from Dn4 or 94M370 plants, consisting of unigenes involved primarily in detoxification, nutrient acquisition and structural development. These variations in transcriptional responses of D. noxia and S. graminum suggest that the underlying evolutionary mechanism(s) of virulence in these aphids are likely species specific, even in cases of cross resistance.
The GRAS (named after first three identified proteins within this family, GAI, RGA, and SCR) family contains plant-specific genes encoding transcriptional regulators that play a key role in gibberellin (GA) signaling, which regulates plant growth and development. Even though
Drought stress can occur at any growth stage and can affect crop productivity, which can result in large yield losses all over the world. In this respect, understanding the genetic architecture of agronomic traits under drought stress is essential for increasing crop yield potential and harvest. Barley is considered the most abiotic stress-tolerant cereal, particularly with respect to drought. In the present study, worldwide spring barley accessions were exposed to drought stress beginning from the early reproductive stage with 35% field capacity under field conditions. Drought stress had significantly reduced the agronomic and yield-related traits such as spike length, awn length, spikelet per spike, grains per spike and thousand kernel weight. To unravel the genetic factors underlying drought tolerance at the early reproductive stage, genome-wide association scan (GWAS) was performed using 121 spring barley accessions and a 9K single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) chip. A total number of 101 significant SNPs, distributed over all seven barley chromosomes, were found to be highly associated with the studied traits, of which five genomic regions were associated with candidate genes at chromosomes 2 and 3. On chromosome 2H, the region between 6469300693-647258342 bp includes two candidate drought-specific genes (
Plants use light wavelength, intensity, direction and duration to predict imminent seasonal changes and to determine when to initiate physiological and developmental processes. Among them, crop responses to light are not fully understood. Here, we study how light quality affects barley development, using two broad-spectrum light sources, metal halide (M) and fluorescent (F) lamps. Eleven varieties with known allelic variants for the major flowering time genes were evaluated under controlled conditions (long days, same light intensity). Two experiments were carried out with fully-vernalized plants: 1) control treatments (M, F); 2) shifting chambers 10 days after the start of the experiment (MF, FM). In general, varieties developed faster under longer exposure to M conditions. The greatest differences were due to a delay promoted by F light bulbs, especially in the time to first node appearance and until the onset of stem elongation. Yield related-traits as the number of seeds were also affected by the conditions experienced. However, not each variety responded equally, and they could be classified in insensitive and sensitive to light quality. Expression levels of flowering time genes HvVRN1, HvFT1 and PPD-H1 were high in M, while HvFT3 and HvVRN2 were higher under F conditions. The expression under shift treatments revealed also a high correlation between HvVRN1 and PPD-H1 transcript levels. The characterization of light quality effects has highlighted the important influence of the spectrum on early developmental stages, affecting the moment of onset of stem elongation, and further consequences on the morphology of the plant and yield components. We suggest that light spectra control the vernalization and photoperiod genes probably through the regulation of upstream elements of signalling pathways. The players behind the different responses to light spectra found deserve further research, which could help to optimize breeding strategies.
The modification of shoot architecture and increased investment into reproductive structures is key for crop improvement and is achieved through coordinated changes in the development and determinacy of different shoot meristems. A fundamental question is how the development of different shoot meristems is genetically coordinated to optimize the balance between vegetative and reproductive organs. Here we identify the
The regulation of mRNA (messenger RNA) levels by microRNA-mediated activity is especially important in plant responses to environmental stresses. In this work, we report six novel barley microRNAs, including two processed from the same precursor that are severely downregulated under drought conditions. For all analyzed microRNAs, we found target genes that were upregulated under drought conditions and that were known to be involved in a plethora of processes from disease resistance to chromatin-protein complex formation and the regulation of transcription in mitochondria. Targets for novel barley microRNAs were confirmed through degradome data analysis and RT-qPCR using primers flanking microRNA-recognition site. Our results show a broad transcriptional response of barley to water deficiency conditions through microRNA-mediated gene regulation and facilitate further research on drought tolerance in crops.
Steatohepatitis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis are common pathological features in the progression of hepatic steatosis. In the current work, we investigated the effect of germinated barely on the structure and function of the liver and its regulatory mechanism on SDC1 gene expression in a steatohepatitis rat model. Forty-eight adult male white Wistar rats were randomly divided into four groups: Group I, control; Group II, rats fed a germinated barley diet; Group III, rats fed a high-fat diet (HFD); and Group IV, rats fed both germinated barley (GB) and a high-fat diet for 14 weeks. Biochemical, histopathological, immunohistochemical, and morphometric studies, as well as qRT-PCR, were used to analyze the effect of germinated barley on steatohepatitis. The rats in Group IV had a lower liver index percentage and improved altered lipid profile and liver function tests compared to those in Group III. Supplementation of GB with a HFD ameliorated the histopathological features in the livers of rats fed a HFD, decreased the percentage of CD68-positive macrophages, and lowered the upregulated expression of SDC1. Supplementation of a HFD with GB prohibited the deterioration of liver function, lipid profile, and alteration of liver structure; it also decreased the associated hepatic inflammation and downregulated SDC1 in liver tissue.
Nad complex plays a very important role during cellular respiration. nad3 (nad dehydrogenase subunit 3) is one of the biggest subunits in this complex. Four cDNAs of nad3 gene were characterized in Hordeum vulgare subsp. spontaneum at exposed to four periods of 500 mM salinity, 0 h or control (accession no. MN066165), after 2 h (accession no. MN066166), after 12 h (accession no. MN066167) and after 24 h (accession no. MN066168) using RNA-seq raw data. Seventeen RNA editing sites were found in positions (or nucleotide nos. C5, C39, C44, C61, C62, C79, C80, C147, C185, C190, C191, C208, C209, C275, C317, C344, C349) within the nad3 coding region. These alterations represent differential editing at four exposure times. The maximum editing rate was revealed 2 and 12 h after salinity exposure. However, these edits were disrupted after 24 h probably due to the initiation of program cell death machinery. We found that RNA editing not only improved protein function but also may improve codon bias by altering the nucleotide without any change in amino acid. Characterization of pentatricopeptide repeat-containing protein At4g13650 (PPRSp1) in wild barley helped us to understand the behavior of editing sites C190 and C191 under salinity. Position - 6 in cis-element upstream editing sites of C155, C190 and C191 may be vital to the editing process in these sites by PPRSp1 protein. The differential editing of this gene under salinity led to a relationship between RNA editing and cellular respiration regulation.
Phenolic compounds in barley grains have an important influence on beer flavor and stability. Drought condition enhances the content of phenolics in barley grains, leading to reduced malt quality. In this study, two barley genotypes, XZ20 and XZ25 with different total phenolics content were used to investigate the effect of drought on phenolic compounds during grain developing stage. Totally, 118 phenolic metabolites were affected by drought stress. A weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) of 17,424 highly expressed genes uncovered black (two hub genes belonged to UGT family) and turquoise modules (three hub genes belonged to phenolics pathway) that are significantly associated with the variation of phenolics. All these results reveal the changes of phenolic metabolites during grain development and provide a new insight into the regulation network of phenolic compounds under drought stress.
Inorganic orthophosphate (Pi) is an essential nutrient for plant growth, and its availability strongly impacts crop yield. PHOSPHATE1 (PHO1) transfers Pi from root to shoot via Pi export into root xylem vessels. In this work, we demonstrate that an upstream open reading frame (uORF) present in the 5' untranslated region of the Arabidopsis (
Nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) is the efficiency with which plants acquire and use nitrogen. Plants have high-affinity nitrate transport systems, which involve certain nitrate transporter (NRT) genes. However, limited data are available on the contribution of the NRT2/3 gene family in barley nitrate transport. In the present study, ten putative NRT2 and three putative NRT3 genes were identified using bioinformatics methods. All the HvNRT2/3 genes were located on chromosomes 3H, 5H, 6H or 7H. Remarkably, the presence of tandem repeats indicated that duplication events contributed to the expansion of the NRT2 gene family in barley. In addition, the HvNRT2/3 genes displayed various expression patterns at selected developmental stages and were induced in the roots by both low and high nitrogen levels. Furthermore, the overexpression of HvNRT2.1 improved the yield related traits in Arabidopsis. Taken together, the data generated in the present study will be useful for genome-wide analyses to determine the precise role of the HvNRT2/3 genes during barley development, with the ultimate goal of improving NUE and crop production.
Drought stress is a major obstacle to agricultural production. Tibetan wild barley with rich genetic diversity is useful for drought-tolerant improvement of cereals. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play critical roles in controlling gene expression in response to various environment perturbations in plants. However, the genome-wide expression profiles of miRNAs and their targets in response to drought stress are largely unknown in wild barley. In this study, a polyethylene glycol (PEG) induced drought stress hydroponic experiment was performed, and the expression profiles of miRNAs from the roots of two contrasting Tibetan wild barley genotypes XZ5 (drought-tolerant) and XZ54 (drought-sensitive), and one cultivated barley Tadmor (drought-tolerant) generated by high-throughput sequencing were compared. There were 69 conserved miRNAs and 1574 novel miRNAs in the dataset of three genotypes under control and drought conditions. Among them, seven conserved miRNAs and 36 novel miRNAs showed significantly genotype-specific expression patterns in response to drought stress. And 12 miRNAs were further regarded as drought tolerant associated miRNAs in XZ5, which mostly participate in gene expression, metabolism, signaling and transportation, suggesting that they and their target genes play important roles in plant drought tolerance. This is the first comparation study on the miRNA transcriptome in the roots of two Tibetan wild barley genotypes differing in drought tolerance and one drought tolerant cultivar in response to PEG treatment. Further results revealed the candidate drought tolerant miRNAs and target genes in the miRNA regulation mechanism in wild barley under drought stress. Our findings provide valuable understandings for the functional characterization of miRNAs in drought tolerance.
To understand how the class 1 phytoglobin is involved in germination process via the modulation of the nitric oxide (NO) metabolism, we performed the analysis of physiological and molecular parameters in the embryos of transgenic barley (
Proteases are responsible for protein degradation during leaf senescence, allowing nutrients to be redirected to sink tissues. In a previous work, we reported that sulphur deficiency produced a delay in the leaf senescence of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) plants, at both vegetative and reproductive stages. In this work, we analyse the effect of sulphur deficiency on the expression of several genes coding for proteases of different catalytic groups, which have been strongly associated with leaf senescence. Four independent experiments were performed in order to impose low sulphur availability conditions: one of steady-state sulphur deficiency during the vegetative stage and three of sulphur starvation during vegetative and reproductive stages. Sulphur deficiency inhibited or reduced the senescence-associated induction of seven of the eight proteases analysed. Their induction, as well as senescence and phloem amino acid remobilization, could be achieved with senescence inducers such as methyl-jasmonate (a hormonal stimulus) and darkness, but with different rates of induction dependent on each gene. Sulphur deficiency also exerted an opposite effect on the expression of two cysteine-protease genes (HvSAG12 and HvLEGU) as well as on one serine-protease gene (HvSUBT) according to leaf age and plant phenological stages. All three genes were induced in green leaves but were repressed in senescent leaves of sulphur-deficient plants at the vegetative stage. At the reproductive stage, both cysteine-proteases were only repressed in senescent leaves, while the serine-protease was induced in green and senescent leaves by sulphur deficiency. Our results highlight the relevance of adequate sulphur nutrition in order to ensure leaf senescence onset and induction of protease genes, which will consequently impact on grain protein composition and quality. In addition, our results provide evidence that leaf age, plant developmental stage and the nature of the stress modulate the sulphur responses.
Reducing the dependence of crop production on chemical fertilizer with its associated costs, carbon footprint and other environmental problems is a challenge for agriculture. New solutions are required to solve this problem, and crop breeding for high nitrogen use efficiency or tolerance of low nitrogen availability has been widely considered to be a promising approach. However, the molecular mechanisms of high nitrogen use efficiency or low-nitrogen tolerance in crop plants are still to be elucidated, including the role of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs). In this study, we identified 498 lncRNAs in barley (Hordeum vulgare) landrace B968 (Liuzhutouzidamai), of which 487 were novel, and characterised 56 that were responsive to low-nitrogen stress. For functional analysis of differentially-expressed lncRNAs, the gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment of co-expressed and co-located protein-coding genes were analyzed, and interactions with annotated co-expressed protein coding genes or micro RNAs (miRNAs) were further predicted. Target mimicry prediction between differentially-expressed lncRNAs and miRNAs identified 40 putative target mimics of lncRNAs and 58 target miRNAs. Six differentially-expressed lncRNAs were further validated by qPCR, and one in particular showed consistent differential expression using both techniques. Expression levels of most of the lncRNAs were found to be very low, and this may be the reason for the apparent inconsistency between RNA-seq and qPCR data. The analysis of lncRNAs that are differentially-expressed under low-nitrogen stress, as well as their co-expressed or co-located protein coding genes and target mimics, could elucidate complex and hitherto uncharacterised mechanisms involved in the adaptation to low-nitrogen stress in barley and other crop plants.
Studying the drought-responsive transcriptome is of high interest as it can serve as a blueprint for stress adaptation strategies. Despite extensive studies in this area, there are still many details to be uncovered, such as the importance of each gene involved in the stress response as well as the relationship between these genes and the physiochemical processes governing stress tolerance. This study was designed to address such important details and to gain insights into molecular responses of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) to drought stress. To that, we combined RNA-seq data analysis with field and greenhouse drought experiments in a systems biology approach. RNA-sequence analysis identified a total of 665 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) belonging to diverse functional categories. A gene network was derived from the DEGs, which comprised of a total of 131 nodes and 257 edges. Gene network topology analysis highlighted two programmed cell death (PCD) modulating genes, MC1 (metacaspase 1) and TSN1 (Tudor-SN 1), as important (hub) genes in the predicted network. Based on the field trial, a drought-tolerant and a drought-susceptible barley genotype was identified from eight tested cultivars. Identified genotypes exhibited different physiochemical characteristics, including proline content, chlorophyll concentration, percentage of electrolyte leakage and malondialdehyde content as well as expression profiles of MC1 and TSN1 genes. Machine learning and correspondence analysis revealed a significant relationship between drought tolerance and measured characteristics in the context of PCD. Our study provides new insights which bridge barley drought tolerance to PCD through MC1 and TSN1 pathway.
The circadian clock is a complex transcriptional network that regulates gene expression in anticipation of the day/night cycle and controls agronomic traits in plants. However, in crops, how the internal clock and day/night cues affect the transcriptome remains poorly understood. We analyzed the
Carbon catabolite repression 4 (CCR4) is a conserved mRNA deadenylase regulating posttranscriptional gene expression. However, regulation of CCR4 in virus infections is less understood. Here, we characterized a pro-viral role of CCR4 in replication of a plant cytorhabdovirus
To investigate the effect of fermented black barley on cooking oil fume (COF)-induced lung injury, male ICR mice were randomized into five groups: normal control (NC), fermented black barley treatment (NF), COF exposure (O), COF + fermented black barley treatment (OF) and COF + Lactobacillus treatment (OL). The exposure of mice to COF was performed for 5 min per day and 4 days per week for a total of 9 weeks, and the mice in the OF, NF and OL groups were administered fermented black barley or Lactobacillus continuously for 9 weeks (1 mL/100 g). Our results showed that the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), total phenolic, and flavonoid contents significantly increased after fermentation (P < 0.01). In addition, fermented black barley significantly increased SOD activity in the lung tissue, decreased the wet pulmonary coefficient, inhibited the reduction of microbial diversity and richness, and upregulated genes involved in cilium assembly and the cilium axoneme. These findings support the notion that fermented black barley can ameliorate COF-induced lung injury in mice.
Plant tolerance to environmental stress is determined by a very complicated network composed of many intra- and extracellular factors. The aim of this study was to select candidate genes involved in responses to freezing and drought in barley on the basis of previous proteomic studies and to analyze changes in their expression caused by application of both stress factors. Six candidate genes for freezing tolerance (namely the genes encoding elongation factor 1 alpha (
The classical methods for the classification problem include hypothesis test with the Benjamini-Hochberg method, hidden Markov chain model, and support vector machine. One major application of the classification problem is gene expression analysis, for example, detecting the host genes having interaction with pathogen. The classical methods can be applied and have a good performance when the number of genes having interaction with the pathogen is not sparse with respect to the candidate genes. However, conditional random field (CRF), with an appropriate design, can be applied and have good performance even when it is sparse. In this work, we proposed a modified CRF with a baseline to reduce the number of parameters in CRF. Moreover, we show an application of CRF with the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) to classifying barley genes of its reaction to the pathogen.
Considering the complex nature of salinity tolerance mechanisms, the use of isogenic lines or mutants possessing the same genetic background albeit different tolerance to salinity is a suitable method for reduction of analytical complexity to study these mechanisms. In the present study, whole transcriptome analysis was evaluated using RNA-seq method between a salt-tolerant mutant line "M4-73-30" and its wild-type "Zarjou" cultivar at seedling stage after six hours of exposure to salt stress (300 mM NaCl). Transcriptome sequencing yielded 20 million reads for each genotype. A total number of 7116 transcripts with differential expression were identified, 1586 and 1479 of which were obtained with significantly increased expression in the mutant and the wild-type, respectively. In addition, the families of WRKY, ERF, AP2/EREBP, NAC, CTR/DRE, AP2/ERF, MAD, MIKC, HSF, and bZIP were identified as the important transcription factors with specific expression in the mutant genotype. The RNA-seq results were confirmed at several time points using qRT-PCR for some important salt-responsive genes. In general, the results revealed that the mutant accumulated higher levels of sodium ion in the root and decreased its transfer to the shoot. Also, the mutant increased the amount of potassium ion leading to the maintenance a high ratio [K+]/[Na+] in the shoot compared to its wild-type via fast stomata closure and consequently transpiration reduction under the salt stress. Moreover, a reduction in photosynthesis and respiration was observed in the mutant, resulting in utilization of the stored energy and the carbon for maintaining the plant tissues, which is considered as a mechanism of salt tolerance in plants. Up-regulation of catalase, peroxidase, and ascorbate peroxidase genes has resulted in higher accumulation of H2O2 in the wild-type compared to the mutant. Therefore, the wild-type initiated rapid ROS signals which led to less oxidative scavenging in comparison with the mutant. The mutant increased expression in the ion transporters and the channels related to the salinity to maintain the ion homeostasis. In overall, the results demonstrated that the mutant responded better to the salt stress under both osmotic and ionic stress phases and lower damage was observed in the mutant compared to its wild-type under the salt stress.
Waterlogging stress significantly affects the growth, development, and productivity of crop plants. However, manipulation of gene expression to enhance waterlogging tolerance is very limited. In this study, we identified an ethylene-responsive factor from barley, which was strongly induced by waterlogging stress. This transcription factor named
Due to their unique dietary fibre composition, in particular β-glucan, the consumption of barley may contribute to a healthy diet and the prevention of colon cancer. The aim of the present study was to analyse chemopreventive effects of barley flakes obtained from a β-glucan-rich barley cultivar. In order to address the impact of heat treatment on potential chemopreventive effects, barley flakes were roasted (160 °C-180 °C, approx. 20 min). The flakes were subjected to in vitro digestion and fermentation. Fermentation supernatants (FS) were analysed for the concentrations of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) and ammonia. Chemopreventive endpoints (growth inhibition, apoptosis, DNA integrity, gene expression of detoxifying enzymes) were analysed in LT97 colon adenoma cells. Concentrations of SCFA were increased in barley FS (2.5-fold, on average) with a shift of molar ratios towards butyrate production, while ammonia levels were significantly decreased (0.7-fold, on average) compared to the fermentation control. The growth of LT97 cells was significantly reduced by barley FS in a time- and dose-dependent manner, and caspase-3 activity of treated cells was significantly enhanced (up to 6.3-fold, on average). On average, treatment of cells resulted in increased mRNA levels of CAT (2.1-fold), SOD2 (2.2-fold) and GSTP1 (3.9-fold), while expression of GPx1 (0.3-fold) was significantly decreased in some cases. The roasting process did not cause genotoxic effects of barley FS and had no impact on chemopreventive properties. Our results indicate chemopreventive potential of in vitro fermented waxy winter barley, mediated primarily by growth inhibitory and apoptotic effects, which is largely unaffected by roasting.
In temperature stress, the main role of heat-shock proteins (HSP) is to act as molecular chaperones for other cellular proteins. However, knowledge about the hormonal regulation of the production of the HSP is quite limited. Specifically, little is known about the role of the plant steroid hormones-brassinosteroids (BR)-in regulating the HSP expression. The aim of our study was to answer the question of how a BR deficit or disturbances in its signaling affect the accumulation of the HSP90, HSP70, HSP18, and HSP17 transcripts and protein in barley growing at 20 °C (control) and during the acclimation of plants at 5 °C and 27 °C. In barley, the temperature of plant growth modified the expression of HSPs. Furthermore, the BR-deficient mutants (mutations in the
Vector-borne pathogens are known to alter the phenotypes of their primary hosts and vectors, with implications for disease transmission as well as ecology. Here we show that a plant virus, barley yellow dwarf virus, increases the surface temperature of infected host plants (by an average of 2 °C), while also significantly enhancing the thermal tolerance of its aphid vector Rhopalosiphum padi (by 8 °C). This enhanced thermal tolerance, which was associated with differential upregulation of three heat-shock protein genes, allowed aphids to occupy higher and warmer regions of infected host plants when displaced from cooler regions by competition with a larger aphid species, R. maidis. Infection thereby led to an expansion of the fundamental niche of the vector. These findings show that virus effects on the thermal biology of hosts and vectors can influence their interactions with one another and with other, non-vector organisms.
Tibetan hull-less barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum) is one of the primary crops cultivated in the mountains of Tibet and encounters low temperature, high salinity, and drought. Specifically, drought is one of the major abiotic stresses that affect and limit Tibetan barley growth. Osmotic stress is often simultaneously accompanied by drought conditions. Thus, to improve crop yield, it is critical to explore the molecular mechanism governing the responses of hull-less barley to osmotic/drought stress conditions. In this study, we used quantitative proteomics by data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry to investigate protein abundance changes in tolerant (XL) and sensitive (DQ) cultivars. A total of 6,921 proteins were identified and quantified in all samples. Two distinct strategies based on pairwise and time-course comparisons were utilized in the comprehensive analysis of differentially abundant proteins. Further functional analysis of differentially abundant proteins revealed that some hormone metabolism-associated and phytohormone abscisic acid-induced genes are primarily affected by osmotic stress. Enhanced regulation of reactive oxygen species (may promote the tolerance of hull-less barley under osmotic stress. Moreover, we found that some regulators, such as GRF, PR10, MAPK, and AMPK, were centrally positioned in the gene regulatory network, suggesting that they may have a dominant role in the osmotic stress response of Tibetan barley. Our findings highlight a subset of proteins and processes that are involved in the alleviation of osmotic stress. In addition, this study provides a large-scale and multidimensional proteomic data resource for the further investigation and improvement of osmotic/drought stress tolerance in hull-less barley or other plant species.
Salinity affects more than 6% of the world's total land area, causing massive losses in crop yield. Salinity inhibits plant growth and development through osmotic and ionic stresses; however, some plants exhibit adaptations through osmotic regulation, exclusion, and translocation of accumulated Na+ or Cl-. Currently, there are no practical, economically viable methods for managing salinity, so the best practice is to grow crops with improved tolerance. Germination is the stage in a plant's life cycle most adversely affected by salinity. Barley, the fourth most important cereal crop in the world, has outstanding salinity tolerance, relative to other cereal crops. Here, we review the genetics of salinity tolerance in barley during germination by summarizing reported quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and functional genes. The homologs of candidate genes for salinity tolerance in Arabidopsis, soybean, maize, wheat, and rice have been blasted and mapped on the barley reference genome. The genetic diversity of three reported functional gene families for salt tolerance during barley germination, namely dehydration-responsive element-binding (DREB) protein, somatic embryogenesis receptor-like kinase and aquaporin genes, is discussed. While all three gene families show great diversity in most plant species, the DREB gene family is more diverse in barley than in wheat and rice. Further to this review, a convenient method for screening for salinity tolerance at germination is needed, and the mechanisms of action of the genes involved in salt tolerance need to be identified, validated, and transferred to commercial cultivars for field production in saline soil.
Overexpression of phytoglobins (formerly plant hemoglobins) increases the survival rate of plant tissues under hypoxia stress by the following two known mechanisms: (1) scavenging of nitric oxide (NO) in the phytoglobin/NO cycle and (2) mimicking ethylene priming to hypoxia when NO scavenging activates transcription factors that are regulated by levels of NO and O
Environmental stresses such as salinity, drought, heat, freezing, heavy metal and even pathogen infections seriously threaten the growth and yield of important cereal crops including wheat and barley. There is growing evidence indicating that plants employ sophisticated epigenetic mechanisms to fine-tune their responses to environmental stresses. Here, we provide an overview of recent developments in understanding the epigenetic processes and elements-such as DNA methylation, histone modification, chromatin remodeling, and non-coding RNAs-involved in plant responses to abiotic and biotic stresses in wheat and barley. Potentials of exploiting epigenetic variation for the improvement of wheat and barley are discussed.
Barley shrunken endosperm mutants have been extensively reported. However, knowledge of the underlying molecular mechanisms of these mutants remains limited. Here, a pair of near isogenic lines (normal endosperm: Bowman and shrunken endosperm: sex1) was subjected to transcriptome analysis to identify mRNAs and lncRNAs related to endosperm development to further dissect its mechanism of molecular regulation. A total of 2123 (1140 up- and 983 down-regulated) unique differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were detected. Functional analyses showed that these DEGs were mainly involved in starch and sucrose metabolism, biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, and plant hormone signal transduction. A total of 343 unique target genes were identified for 57 differentially expressed lncRNAs (DE lncRNAs). These DE lncRNAs were mainly involved in glycerophospholipid metabolism, starch and sucrose metabolism, hormone signal transduction, and stress response. In addition, key lncRNAs were identified by constructing a co-expression network of the target genes of DE lncRNAs. Transcriptome results suggested that mRNA and lncRNA played a critical role in endosperm development. The shrunken endosperm in barley seems to be closely related to plant hormone signal transduction, starch and sucrose metabolism, and cell apoptosis. This study provides a foundation for fine mapping, elucidates the molecular mechanism of shrunken endosperm mutants, and also provides a reference for further studies of lncRNAs during the grain development of plants.
Improving nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) is very important for crops throughout the world. Rice mainly utilizes ammonium as an N source, but it also has four
Waterlogging is a major abiotic stress causing oxygen depletion and carbon dioxide accumulation in the rhizosphere. Barley is more susceptible to waterlogging stress than other cereals. To gain a better understanding, the genome-wide gene expression responses in roots of waterlogged barley seedlings of Yerong and Deder2 were analyzed by RNA-Sequencing. A total of 6736, 5482, and 4538 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in waterlogged roots of Yerong at 72 h and Deder2 at 72 and 120 h, respectively, compared with the non-waterlogged control. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analyses showed that the most significant changes in GO terms, resulted from these DEGs observed under waterlogging stress, were related to primary and secondary metabolism, regulation, and oxygen carrier activity. In addition, more than 297 transcription factors, including members of MYB, AP2/EREBP, NAC, WRKY, bHLH, bZIP, and G2-like families, were identified as waterlogging responsive. Tentative important contributors to waterlogging tolerance in Deder2 might be the highest up-regulated DEGs: Trichome birefringence, α/β-Hydrolases, Xylanase inhibitor, MATE efflux, serine carboxypeptidase, and SAUR-like auxin-responsive protein. The study provides insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the response to waterlogging in barley, which will be of benefit for future studies of molecular responses to waterlogging and will greatly assist barley genetic research and breeding.
Four QTL for ergot resistance (causal pathogen Claviceps purpurea) have been identified in the durum wheat cultivar Greenshank. Claviceps purpurea is a pathogen of grasses that infects flowers, replacing the seed with an ergot sclerotium. Ergot presents a significant problem to rye, barley and wheat, in particular hybrid seed production systems. In addition, there is evidence that the highly toxic alkaloids that accumulate within sclerotia can cross-contaminate otherwise healthy grain. Host resistance to C. purpurea is rare, few resistance loci having been identified. In this study, four ergot resistance loci are located on chromosomes 1B, 2A, 5A and 5B in the durum wheat cv. Greenshank. Ergot resistance was assessed through analysis of phenotypes associated with C. purpurea infection, namely the number of inoculated flowers that produced sclerotia, or resulted in ovary death but no sclerotia, the levels of honeydew produced, total sclerotia weight and average sclerotia weight and size per spike. Ergot testing was undertaken in Canada and the UK. A major effect QTL, QCp.aafc.DH-2A, was detected in both the Canadian and UK experiments and had a significant effect on honeydew production levels. QCp.aafc.DH-5B had the biggest influence on total sclerotia weight per spike. QCp.aafc.DH-1B was only detected in the Canadian experiments and QCp.aafc.DH-5A in the UK experiment. An RNASeq analysis, undertaken to identify wheat differentially expressed genes associated with different combinations of the four ergot resistance QTL, revealed a disproportionate number of DEGs locating to the QCp.aafc.DH-1B, QCp.aafc.DH-2A and QCp.aafc.DH-5B QTL intervals.
The most consistent phenotype of the brassinosteroid (BR)-related mutants is the dwarf habit. This observation has been reported in every species in which BR action has been studied through a mutational approach. On this basis, a significant role has been attributed to BRs in promoting plant growth. In this review, we summarize the work conducted in rice, maize, and barley for the genetic dissection of the pathway and the functional analysis of the genes involved. Similarities and differences detected in these species for the BR role in plant development are presented. BR promotes plant cell elongation through a complex signalling cascade that modulates the activities of growth-related genes and through the interaction with gibberellins (GAs), another class of important growth-promoting hormones. Evidence of BR-GA cross-talk in controlling plant height has been collected, and mechanisms of interaction have been studied in detail in
The phenolic profiles, hypoglycemic activity, and molecular mechanism of the effect on type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) of four highland barley varieties were investigated in the present study. The fundamental phenolics in highland barley were ferulic acid, naringin, and catechin, which mainly existed in bound form. These varieties showed favorable hypoglycemic activity via inhibition of α-glucosidase and α-amylase activities, enhancement of glucose consumption, glycogen accumulation and glycogen synthase 2 (GYS2) activity, and down-regulation of glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) activities. Specifically, ZQ320 variety exhibited the strongest hypoglycemic activity compared to the other varieties. Highland barley phenolics could inhibit gluconeogenesis and motivate glycogen synthesis via down-regulating the gene expression of G6Pase, PEPCK, and glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β), while activating the expression of insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1), phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K), serine/threonine kinase (Akt), GYS2, and glucose transporter type 4 (GLUT4). Therefore, phenolics from highland barley could be served as suitable candidates for therapeutic agent in T2DM to improve human health.
Cereal endosperm is a short-lived tissue adapted for nutrient storage, containing specialized organelles, such as protein bodies (PBs) and protein storage vacuoles (PSVs), for the accumulation of storage proteins. During development, protein trafficking and storage require an extensive reorganization of the endomembrane system. Consequently, endomembrane-modifying proteins will influence the final grain quality and yield. However, little is known about the molecular mechanism underlying endomembrane system remodeling during barley grain development. By using label-free quantitative proteomics profiling, we quantified 1,822 proteins across developing barley grains. Based on proteome annotation and a homology search, 94 proteins associated with the endomembrane system were identified that exhibited significant changes in abundance during grain development. Clustering analysis allowed characterization of three different development phases; notably, integration of proteomics data with in situ subcellular microscopic analyses showed a high abundance of cytoskeleton proteins associated with acidified PBs at the early development stages. Moreover, endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT)-related proteins and their transcripts are most abundant at early and mid-development. Specifically, multivesicular bodies (MVBs), and the ESCRT-III HvSNF7 proteins are associated with PBs during barley endosperm development. Together our data identified promising targets to be genetically engineered to modulate seed storage protein accumulation that have a growing role in health and nutritional issues.
Bymovirus-induced yellow mosaic diseases seriously threaten global production of autumn-sown barley and wheat, which are two of the presently most important crops around the world. Under natural field conditions, the diseases are caused by infection of soil-borne plasmodiophorid Polymyxa graminis-transmitted bymoviruses of the genus Bymovirus of the family Potyviridae. Focusing on barley and wheat, this article summarizes the achievements on taxonomy, geography and host specificity of these disease-conferring viruses, as well as the genetics of resistance in barley, wheat and wild relatives. Moreover, based on recent progress of barley and wheat genomics, germplasm resources and large-scale sequencing, the exploration and isolation of corresponding resistant genes from wheat and barley as well as relatives, no matter what a large and complicated genome is present, are becoming feasible and are discussed. Furthermore, the foreseen advances on cloning of the resistance or susceptibility-encoding genes, which will provide the possibility to explore the functional interaction between host plants and soil-borne viral pathogens, are discussed as well as the benefits for marker-assisted resistance breeding in barley and wheat.
Barley, like other crops, has experienced a series of genetic changes that have impacted its architecture and growth habit to suit the needs of humans, termed the domestication syndrome. Domestication also resulted in a concomitant bottleneck that reduced sequence diversity in genes and regulatory regions. Little is known about regulatory changes resulting from domestication in barley. We used RNA sequencing to examine allele-specific expression in hybrids between wild and domesticated barley. Our results show that most genes have conserved regulation. In contrast to studies of allele-specific expression in interspecific hybrids, we find almost a complete absence of trans effects. We also find that cis regulation is largely stable in response to short-term cold stress. Our study has practical implications for crop improvement using wild relatives. Genes regulated in cis are more likely to be expressed in a new genetic background at the same level as in their native background.
Aphids secrete diverse repertoires of effectors into their hosts to promote the infestation process. While 'omics' approaches facilitated the identification and comparison of effector repertoires from a number of aphid species, the functional characterization of these proteins has been limited to dicot (model) plants. The bird cherry-oat aphid Rhopalosiphum padi is a pest of cereal crops, including barley. Here, we extend efforts to characterize aphid effectors with regard to their role in promoting susceptibility to the R. padi-barley interaction. We selected three R. padi effectors based on sequence similarity to previously characterized Myzus persicae effectors and assessed their subcellular localization, expression, and role in promoting plant susceptibility. Expression of R. padi effectors RpC002 and Rp1 in transgenic barley lines enhanced plant susceptibility to R. padi but not M. persicae, for which barley is a poor host. Characterization of Rp1 transgenic barley lines revealed reduced gene expression of plant hormone signalling genes relevant to plant-aphid interactions, indicating that this effector enhances susceptibility by suppressing plant defences in barley. Our data suggest that some aphid effectors specifically function when expressed in host species, and feature activities that benefit their corresponding aphid species.
Developing plants from in vitro culture of microspores or immature pollen grains (androgenesis) is a highly genotype-dependent process whose effectiveness in cereals is significantly reduced by occurrence of albino regenerants. Here, we examined a hypothesis that the molecular differentiation of plastids in barley microspores prior to in vitro culture affects the genotype ability to regenerate green plants in culture. At the mid-to-late uninucleate (ML) stage, routinely used to initiate microspore culture, the expression of most genes involved in plastid transcription, translation and starch synthesis was significantly higher in microspores of barley cv. 'Mercada' producing 90% albino regenerants, than in cv. 'Jersey' that developed 90% green regenerants. The ML microspores of cv. 'Mercada' contained a large proportion of amyloplasts filled with starch, while in cv. 'Jersey' there were only proplastids. Using additional spring barley genotypes that differed in their ability to regenerate green plants we confirmed the correlation between plastid differentiation prior to culture and albino regeneration in culture. The expression of GBSSI gene (Granule-bound starch synthaseI) in early-mid (EM) microspores was a good marker of a genotype potential to produce green regenerants during androgenesis. Initiating culture from EM microspores that significantly improved regeneration of green plants may overcome the problem of albinism.
In Hordeum vulgare, nine differentially expressed novel miRNAs were induced by colchicine. Five novel miRNA in colchicine solution showed the opposite expression patterns as those in water. Colchicine is a commonly used agent for plant chromosome set doubling. MicroRNA-mediated responses to colchicine treatment in plants have not been characterized. Here, we characterized new microRNAs induced by colchicine treatment in Hordeum vulgare using high-throughput sequencing. Our results showed that 39 differentially expressed miRNAs were affected by water treatment, including 34 novel miRNAs and 5 known miRNAs; 42 miRNAs, including 37 novel miRNAs and 5 known miRNAs, were synergistically affected by colchicine and water, and 9 differentially expressed novel miRNAs were induced by colchicine. The novel_mir69, novel_mir57, novel_mir75, novel_mir38, and novel_mir56 in colchicine treatment showed the opposite expression patterns as those in water. By analyzing these 9 differentially expressed novel miRNAs and their targets, we found that novel_mir69, novel_mir56 and novel_mir25 co-target the genes involving the DNA repair pathway. Based on our results, microRNA-target regulation network under colchicine treatment was proposed, which involves actin, cell cycle regulation, cell wall synthesis, and the regulation of oxidative stress. Overall, the results demonstrated the critical role of microRNAs mediated responses to colchicine treatment in plants.
Free and bound phenolics were extracted from the fibre fraction of wholemeal (W) wheat and barley (B) cookies which had been fortified with 15% blackcurrant powder. Blackcurrant enriched cookies contained between 55 and 66 % higher total phenolics respectively compared control cookies. Ferulic acid in wheat and barley cookie extracts, and quercetin and kaempferol-3-glucoside in wheat cookies with 15% blackcurrant were the dominant phenolic acids. Cellular antioxidant activity was higher in samples with blackcurrant inclusion when evaluated in a cancer cell HepG2 model. Inhibition of cell proliferation was lower for the phenolic samples from cookies with blackcurrant addition. These samples suppressed the regulation of inflammatory cytokine IL-1β (about 3 to 4-fold), IL-6 (about 2-fold) and transcription signalling factor NF-kB (about 2-fold) and showed an up-regulation of the satiety gene NUCB-2/nesfatin-1 (about 4-fold) in compared with control samples.
Balanced photosynthesis under drought is essential for better survival and for agricultural benefits in terms of biomass and yield. Given the current attempts to improve the photosynthetic efficiency for greater crop yield, the explanation of the genetic basis of that process, together with the phenotypic analysis, is significant in terms of both basic studies and potential agricultural application. Therefore, the main objective of this study was to uncover the molecular basis of the photosynthesis process under drought stress in barley. To address that goal, we conducted transcriptomic examination together with detailed photosynthesis analysis using the JIP-test. Using this approach, we indicated that photosynthesis is a process that is very early affected in barley seedlings treated with severe drought stress. Rather than focusing on individual genes, our strategy was pointed to the identification of groups of genes with similar expression patterns. As such, we identified and annotated almost 150 barley genes as crucial core-components of photosystems, electron transport components, and Calvin cycle enzymes. Moreover, we designated 17 possible regulatory interactions between photosynthesis-related genes and transcription factors in barley. Summarizing, our results provide a list of candidate genes for future genetic research and improvement of barley drought tolerance by targeting photosynthesis.
Sub-acute ruminal acidosis (SARA) can reduce the production efficiency and impair the welfare of cattle, potentially in all production systems. The aim of this study was to characterise measurable postmortem observations from divergently managed intensive beef finishing farms with high rates of concentrate feeding. At the time of slaughter, we obtained samples from 19 to 20 animals on each of 6 beef finishing units (119 animals in total) with diverse feeding practices, which had been subjectively classified as being high risk (three farms) or low risk (three farms) for SARA on the basis of the proportions of barley, silage and straw in the ration. We measured the concentrations of histamine, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), lactate and other short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) in ruminal fluid, LPS and SCFA in caecal fluid. We also took samples of the ventral blind sac of the rumen for histopathology, immunohistopathology and gene expression. Subjective assessments were made of the presence of lesions on the ruminal wall, the colour of the lining of the ruminal wall and the shape of the ruminal papillae. Almost all variables differed significantly and substantially among farms. Very few pathological changes were detected in any of the rumens examined. The animals on the high-risk diets had lower concentrations of SCFA and higher concentrations of lactate and LPS in the ruminal fluid. Higher LPS concentrations were found in the caecum than the rumen but were not related to the risk status of the farm. The diameters of the stratum granulosum, stratum corneum and of the vasculature of the papillae, and the expression of the gene TLR4 in the ruminal epithelium were all increased on the high-risk farms. The expression of IFN-γ and IL-1β and the counts of cluster of differentiation 3 positive and major histocompatibility complex class two positive cells were lower on the high-risk farms. High among-farm variation and the unbalanced design inherent in this type of study in the field prevented confident assignment of variation in the dependent variables to individual dietary components; however, the CP percentage of the total mixed ration DM was the factor that was most consistently associated with the variables of interest. Despite the strong effect of farm on the measured variables, there was wide inter-animal variation.
Ubiquitination is a key regulatory mechanism that affects numerous important biological processes, including cellular differentiation and pathogenesis in eukaryotic cells. Attachment of proteins to ubiquitin is reversed by specialized proteases, deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs), which are essential for precursor processing, maintaining ubiquitin homeostasis and promoting protein degradation by recycling ubiquitins. Here, we report the identification of a novel non-pathogenic T-DNA-tagged mutant T612 of Magnaporthe oryzae with a single insertion in the second exon of MoUBP4, which encodes a putative ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase. Targeted gene deletion mutants of MoUBP4 are significantly reduced in mycelial growth, conidiation, and increased in tolerance to SDS and CR (Congo red) cell-wall damage. The ΔMoubp4 mutants are blocked in penetration and invasive growth, which results in the loss of pathogenicity. Many conidia produced by the ΔMoubp4 mutants are unable to form appressoria and mobilization and degradation of glycogen and lipid droplets are significantly delayed. Moreover, immunohybridization analysis revealed that total protein ubiquitination levels of the null mutants were significantly increased, indicating that MoUbp4 functions as a deubiquitination enzyme. Taken together, we conclude that MoUbp4 is required for deubiquitination, infection-related morphogenesis and pathogenicity in M. oryzae.
Tonoplast Intrinsic Proteins (TIP) are plant aquaporins that are primarily localized in the tonoplast and play a role in the bidirectional flux of water and other substrates across a membrane. In barley, eleven members of the HvTIP gene subfamily have been identified. Here, we describe the transcription profile of the HvTIP genes in the leaves of barley seedlings being grown under optimal moisture conditions, drought stress and a re-watering phase. The applied drought stress caused a 55% decrease in the relative water content (RWC) in seedlings, while re-watering increased the RWC to 90% of the control. Our analysis showed that all HvTIP genes, except HvTIP3;2, HvTIP4;3 and HvTIP5.1, were expressed in leaves of ten-day-old barley seedlings under optimal water conditions with the transcripts of HvTIP2;3, HvTIP1;2 and HvTIP1;1 being the most abundant. We showed, for the first time in barley, a significant variation in the transcriptional activity between the analysed genes under drought stress. After drought treatment, five HvTIP genes, which are engaged in water transport, were down-regulated to varying degrees, while two, HvTIP3;1 and HvTIP4;1, were up-regulated. The HvTIP3;1 isoform, which is postulated as transporting hydrogen peroxide, expressed the highest increase of activity (ca. 5000x) under drought stress, thus indicating its importance in the response to this stress. Re-hydration caused the return of the expression of many genes to the level that was observed under optimal moisture conditions or, at least, a change in this direction Additionally, we examined the promotor regions of HvTIP and detected the presence of the cis-regulatory elements that are connected with the hormone and stress responses in all of the genes. Overall, our results suggest that 7 of 11 studied HvTIP (HvTIP1;1, HvTIP1;2, HvTIP2;1, HvTIP2;2, HvTIP2;3, HvTIP3;1, HvTIP4;1) have an important function during the adaptation of barley to drought stress conditions. We discuss the identified drought-responsive HvTIP in terms of their function in the adaptation of barley to this stress.
To further explore associated effects of Lactobacillus plantarum dy-1 (LFBE) on obesity and lipid metabolism at the gene expression level, the expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) was investigated in the liver of high-fat diet (HFD) induced obese rats. Three groups of animal models were established. Changes in miRNA expression in the liver of each group were analyzed by microarray and RT-qPCR, complemented by bioinformatics. Palmitateinduced hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) cells were used as a model to validate the test. LFBE treatment groups and HFD groups were observed to be distinctly different with respect to rates of increase in body weight and body fat percentage and triglyceride (TG) and total cholesterol (TC) levels in serum and liver. In addition, the LFBE group showed upregulation of ten miRNAs and downregulation of five miRNAs in the liver. Downregulation of miR-34a and miR-212 was observed in the livers of the LFBE group. Gene ontology and kyoto encyelopedia of geues and genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis showed that possible target genes of the deregulated miRNAs were significantly enriched in the adrenergic and HIF-1 signaling pathways. These results demonstrate that LFBE might regulate the expression of miRNAs in order to inhibit obesity and fatty liver.
Stem rust is an economically important disease of wheat and barley. However, studies to gain insight into the molecular basis of these host-pathogen interactions have primarily focused on wheat because of its importance in human sustenance. This is the first extensive study utilizing a transcriptome-wide association mapping approach to identify candidate Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici (Pgt) effectors/suppressors that elicit or suppress barley stem rust resistance genes. Here we focus on identifying Pgt elicitors that interact with the rpg4-mediated resistance locus (RMRL), the only effective source of Pgt race TTKSK resistance in barley. Thirty-seven Pgt isolates showing differential responses on RMRL were genotyped using Restriction Site Associated DNA-Genotyping by Sequencing (RAD-GBS), identifying 24 diverse isolates that were used for transcript analysis during the infection process. In planta RNAseq was conducted with the 24 diverse isolates on the susceptible barley variety Harrington, 5 days post inoculation. The transcripts were mapped to the Pgt race SCCL reference genome identifying 114 K variants in predicted genes that would result in nonsynonymous amino acid substitutions. Transcriptome wide association analysis identified 33 variants across 28 genes that were associated with dominant RMRL virulence, thus, representing candidate suppressors of resistance. Comparative transcriptomics between the 9 RMRL virulent -vs- the 15 RMRL avirulent Pgt isolates identified 44 differentially expressed genes encoding candidate secreted effector proteins (CSEPs), among which 38 were expressed at lower levels in virulent isolates suggesting that they may represent RMRL avirulence genes. Barley transcript analysis after colonization with 9 RMRL virulent and 15 RMRL avirulent isolates inoculated on the susceptible line Harrington showed significantly lower expression of host biotic stress responses specific to RMRL virulent isolates suggesting virulent isolates harbor effectors that suppress resistance responses. This transcriptomic study provided novel findings that help fill knowledge gaps in the understanding of stem rust virulence/avirulence and host resistance in barley. The pathogen transcriptome analysis suggested RMRL virulence might depend on the lack of avirulence genes, but evidence from pathogen association mapping analysis and host transcriptional analysis also suggested the alternate hypothesis that RMRL virulence may be due to the presence of suppressors of defense responses.
Fusarium graminearum is the main causal agent of fusarium head blight (FHB) of wheat and barley. This filamentous fungus is able to produce hydrolytic enzymes, such as xylanases, that cause cell wall degradation, permitting host colonization. This study investigated the role of the F. graminearum XylA (FGSG_10999) gene during infection, using a knockout mutant in strain CS3005. Assays were carried out on common wheat, durum wheat and barley to compare virulence of a XylA knockout to that of wild type strain. These assays were conducted on wheat and barley seedling roots, seedling stem bases and heads. Furthermore, additional in vitro experiments were conducted to investigate the role of XylA gene in the utilisation of D-xylose, the main component of cereals cell wall. In planta assays showed the importance of XylA gene for F. graminearum virulence towards its main hosts. A positive correlation between symptom incidence and fungal biomass development was also observed for both the wild type and the knockout strains. Finally, gene expression studies performed in a liquid medium enriched with D-xylose, a known xylanase inducer in other fungi, showed that the absence of the gene in the FGSG_10999 locus was not compensated by two other F. graminearum xylanase encoding genes analysed (loci FGSG_06445 and FGSG_11478).
The time required to analyse RNA-seq data varies considerably, due to discrete steps for computational assembly, quantification of gene expression and splicing analysis. Recent fast non-alignment tools such as Kallisto and Salmon overcome these problems, but these tools require a high quality, comprehensive reference transcripts dataset (RTD), which are rarely available in plants. A high-quality, non-redundant barley gene RTD and database (Barley Reference Transcripts - BaRTv1.0) has been generated. BaRTv1.0, was constructed from a range of tissues, cultivars and abiotic treatments and transcripts assembled and aligned to the barley cv. Morex reference genome (Mascher et al. Nature; 544: 427-433, 2017). Full-length cDNAs from the barley variety Haruna nijo (Matsumoto et al. Plant Physiol; 156: 20-28, 2011) determined transcript coverage, and high-resolution RT-PCR validated alternatively spliced (AS) transcripts of 86 genes in five different organs and tissue. These methods were used as benchmarks to select an optimal barley RTD. BaRTv1.0-Quantification of Alternatively Spliced Isoforms (QUASI) was also made to overcome inaccurate quantification due to variation in 5' and 3' UTR ends of transcripts. BaRTv1.0-QUASI was used for accurate transcript quantification of RNA-seq data of five barley organs/tissues. This analysis identified 20,972 significant differentially expressed genes, 2791 differentially alternatively spliced genes and 2768 transcripts with differential transcript usage. A high confidence barley reference transcript dataset consisting of 60,444 genes with 177,240 transcripts has been generated. Compared to current barley transcripts, BaRTv1.0 transcripts are generally longer, have less fragmentation and improved gene models that are well supported by splice junction reads. Precise transcript quantification using BaRTv1.0 allows routine analysis of gene expression and AS.
To investigate an improvement of barley germination by application of biochar leacheate in the steeping solution for upgrading malt quality. Barley germination was improved when biochar leacheate was used in the steeping water during the first steeping cycle. A clear decrease in the time to reach 50% of final germination percentage was detected due to an addition of biochar leacheate, but no significant difference was observed in the percent germination at the end of germination. Hydrolase activities including α-amylase, proteinase and β-glucanase in barley grains were maximally increased during the malting process when 10% biochar leacheate was added to the first steeping water. The wort yielding indexes including both glucose and maltose content and the free amino nitrogen content were significantly increased but the β-glucan content was significantly decreased at a level of p < 0.05 when 10% biochar leacheate was added to the steeping water. Biochar leacheate could be used as a stimulator in the steeping solution during the first steeping cycle to improve barley germination and so upgrade malt quality.
Root systems play a pivotal role in coupling with drought stress, which is accompanied with a substantial transcriptome rebuilding in the root tissues. Here, we present the results of global gene expression profiling of roots of two barley genotypes with contrasting abilities to cope with drought that were subjected to a mild level of the stress. We concentrate our analysis on gene expression regulation processes, which allowed the identification of 88 genes from 39 families involved in transcriptional regulation in roots upon mild drought. They include 13 genes encoding transcription factors (TFs) from AP2 family represented by ERFs, DREB, or B3 domain-containing TFs, eight WRKYs, six NACs, five of the HD-domain, MYB or MYB-related, bHLH and bZIP TFs. Also, the representatives of C3H, CPP, GRAS, LOB-domain, TCP, Tiffy, Tubby, and NF-Ys TFs, among others were found to be regulated by the mild drought in barley roots. We found that drought tolerance is accompanied with a lower number of gene expression changes than the amount observed in a susceptible genotype. The better drought acclimation may be related to the activation of transcription factors involved in the maintenance of primary root growth and in the epigenetic control of chromatin and DNA methylation. In addition, our analysis pointed to fives TFs from ERF, LOB, NAC, WRKY and bHLH families that may be important in the mild but not the severe drought response of barley roots.
In chronic kidney disease (CKD), hyperphosphatemia-induced inflammation aggravates vascular calcification (VC) by increasing vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) osteogenic differentiation, ADAM17-induced renal and vascular injury, and TNFα-induction of neutral-sphingomyelinase2 (nSMase2) to release pro-calcifying exosomes. This study examined anti-inflammatory β-glucans efficacy at attenuating systemic inflammation in health, and renal and vascular injury favoring VC in hyperphosphatemic CKD. In healthy adults, dietary barley β-glucans (Bβglucans) reduced leukocyte superoxide production, inflammatory ADAM17, TNFα, nSMase2, and pro-aging/pro-inflammatory STING (Stimulator of interferon genes) gene expression without decreasing circulating inflammatory cytokines, except for γ-interferon. In hyperphosphatemic rat CKD, dietary Bβglucans reduced renal and aortic ADAM17-driven inflammation attenuating CKD-progression (higher GFR and lower serum creatinine, proteinuria, kidney inflammatory infiltration and nSMase2), and TNFα-driven increases in aortic nSMase2 and calcium deposition without improving mineral homeostasis. In VSMC, Bβglucans prevented LPS- or uremic serum-induced rapid increases in ADAM17, TNFα and nSMase2, and reduced the 13-fold higher calcium deposition induced by prolonged calcifying conditions by inhibiting osteogenic differentiation and increases in nSMase2 through Dectin1-independent actions involving Bβglucans internalization. Thus, dietary Bβglucans inhibit leukocyte superoxide production and leukocyte, renal and aortic ADAM17- and nSMase2 gene expression attenuating systemic inflammation in health, and renal injury and aortic calcification despite hyperphosphatemia in CKD.
Resequencing in resistant cultivar 'Nure' and structural comparison with the same region of susceptible 'Morex' was performed in order to gain a better insight into barley Frost-resistance-H2 locus. Accurate annotation showed copy number variation (CNV) in the proximal part of the locus. In 'Nure', two exact copies of the HvCBF4-HvCBF2A region and one of the HvCBF4-HvCBF2B segment were observed, while in 'Morex' the corresponding region harboured a single HvCBF4-HvCBF2A (22 kb) segment. Abundance and diversity of repetitive element classes, gene function gain/losses, regulatory motifs and SNPs in gene sequences were identified. An expression study of key HvCBFs with/without CNV on selected genotypes contrasting for frost resistance and estimated HvCBF4-HvCBF2B copy number (2-10 copies) was also performed. Under light stimulus at warm temperature (23 °C), CNV of HvCBF2A and HvCBF4 correlated with their expression levels and reported frost resistance of genotypes; moreover, expression levels of HvCBF2A and HvCBF14 were strongly correlated (r = 0.908, p < 0.01). On the other hand, frost resistance correlated to HvCBF14 expression (r = 0.871, p < 0.01) only after cold induction (6°C) in the dark. A complex interplay of HvCBFs expression levels under different light/temperature stimuli is discussed in light of CNV and presence/number of regulatory elements that integrate different signal transduction pathways.
Thaumatin-like protein kinases (TLPKs) are defense related proteins having antimicrobial property. Herein, we identified two TLPKs in the genome of Brachypodium distachyon and Oryza sativa, four in Hordeum vulgare and Sorghum bicolor, and 16 in Triticum aestivum. All the TLPKs were located at only one chromosome in each plant except T. aestivum, where they were located on chromosome 2 and chromosome 3. Paralogous analysis suggested the occurrence of one duplication event (DE) in each B. distachyon and O. sativa, two in H. vulgare while four DEs in T. aestivum genome during the evolution of TLPKs. The majority of TLPKs were intron less, while a few contains one or two introns. The introns were found in each 0, 1 and 2 phase. Protein structure analysis suggested the occurrence of a thaumatin and a kinase domain with a transmembrane (TM) helix in each TLPK. Further, a thaumatin family signature motif "GX[GF]XCXT[GA]DCX(1,2)GX(2,3)C", a "REDDD" motif and 16 cysteine residues were found conserved in the majority of TLPKs. Expression analysis indicated variable expression of TLPKs in various tissues of different cereal crops. They were high expressing in reproductive tissues in B. distachyon, while in leaves in T. aestivum. Modulated expression of TaTLPKs in the presence of fungal pathogen, and heat, drought and salt stress in T. aestivum suggested their roles in stress response. Co-expression analysis showed interaction of TLPKs with various development and stress related genes. The results indicated diverse roles of TLPKs, which can be utilized for the development of eco-friendly pest resistant crops in future.
Wild barley, Hordeum vulgare spp. spontaneum, has a wider genetic diversity than its cultivated progeny, Hordeum vulgare spp. vulgare. Osmotic stress leads to a series of different responses in wild barley seminal roots, ranging from no changes in suberization to enhanced endodermal suberization of certain zones and the formation of a suberized exodermis, which was not observed in the modern cultivars studied so far. Further, as a response to osmotic stress, the hydraulic conductivity of roots was not affected in wild barley, but it was 2.5-fold reduced in cultivated barley. In both subspecies, osmotic adjustment by increasing proline concentration and decreasing osmotic potential in roots was observed. RNA-sequencing indicated that the regulation of suberin biosynthesis and water transport via aquaporins were different between wild and cultivated barley. These results indicate that wild barley uses different strategies to cope with osmotic stress compared with cultivated barley. Thus, it seems that wild barley is better adapted to cope with osmotic stress by maintaining a significantly higher hydraulic conductivity of roots during water deficit.
Diversity arrays technology (DArT) marker sequences for barley were used for identifying new potential candidate genes for freezing tolerance (FT). We used quantitative trait loci (QTL) genetic linkage maps for FT and photosynthetic acclimation to cold for six- and two-row barley populations, and a set of 20 DArT markers obtained using the association mapping of parameters for photosynthetic acclimation to low temperatures in barley for the bioinformatics analyses. Several nucleotide and amino acid sequence, annotation databases and associated algorithms were used to identify the similarities of six of the marker sequences to potential genes involved in plant low temperature response. Gene ontology (GO) annotations based on similarities to database sequences were assigned to these marker sequences, and indicated potential involvement in signal transduction pathways in response to stress factors and epigenetic processes, as well as auxin transport mechanisms. Furthermore, relative gene expressions for three of six of new identified genes (Hv.ATPase, Hv.DDM1, and Hv.BIG) were assessed within four barley genotypes of different FT. A physiological assessment of FT was conducted based on plant survival rates in two field-laboratory and one laboratory experiments. The results suggested that plant survival rate after freezing but not the degree of freezing-induced leaf damage between the tested accessions can be correlated with the degree of low-temperature downregulation of the studied candidate genes, which encoded proteins involved in the control of plant growth and development. Additionally, candidate genes for qRT-PCR suitable for the analysis of cold acclimation response in barley were suggested after validation.
In barley and other higher plants, phosphate homeostasis is maintained by a regulatory network involving the PHO2 (PHOSPHATE2) encoding ubiquitin-conjugating (UBC) E2 enzyme, the PHR1 (PHOSPHATE STARVATION RESPONSE 1) transcription factor (TF), IPS1 (INDUCED BYPHOSPHATESTARVATION1) RNA, and miR399. During phosphate ion (Pi) deprivation, PHR1 positively regulates MIR399 expression, after transcription and processing mature miR399 guides the Ago protein to the 5'-UTR of PHO2 transcripts. Non-coding IPS1 RNA is highly expressed during Pi starvation, and the sequestration of miR399 molecules protects PHO2 mRNA from complete degradation. Here, we reveal new cis- and trans-regulatory elements that are crucial for efficient PHO2 gene expression in barley. We found that the 5'-UTR of PHO2 contains two PHR1 binding sites (P1BSs) and one Pi-responsive PHO element. Using a yeast one-hybrid (Y1H) assay, we identified two candidate proteins that might mediate this transcriptional regulation: a barley PHR1 ortholog and a TF containing an uncharacterized MYB domain. Additional results classified this new potential TF as belonging to the APL (ALTERED PHLOEM DEVELOPMENT) protein family, and we observed its nuclear localization in barley protoplasts. Pi starvation induced the accumulation of barley APL transcripts in both the shoots and roots. Interestingly, the deletion of the P1BS motif from the first intron of the barley 5'-UTR led to a significant increase in the transcription of a downstream β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in tobacco leaves. Our work extends the current knowledge about putative cis- and trans-regulatory elements that may affect the expression of the barley PHO2 gene.
To curb the increasing demand for nitrogenous fertilizers, it is imperative to develop new cultivars with comparatively greater nitrogen use efficiency (NUE). Nonetheless, so far very meager information is available concerning the variances among barley (
Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) has a misleading name, since although they do not encode proteins, they may encode small peptides. Such transcripts are emerging as regulatory molecules. With the advent of next-generation sequencing technologies and novel bioinformatics tools, a tremendous amount of lncRNAs have been identified in several plant species. Recent reports demonstrated roles of plant lncRNAs such as development and environmental response. Here, we reported a genome-wide discovery of ~8000 barley lncRNAs and measured their expression pattern upon excessive boron (B) treatment. According to the tissue-based comparison, leaves have a greater number of B-responsive differentially expressed lncRNAs than the root. Functional annotation of the coding transcripts, which were co-expressed with lncRNAs, revealed that molecular function of the ion transport, establishment of localization, and response to stimulus significantly enriched only in the leaf. On the other hand, 32 barley endogenous target mimics (eTM) as lncRNAs, which potentially decoy the transcriptional suppression activity of 18 miRNAs, were obtained. Also, six lncRNAs, differentially expressed upon B-treatment, were selected and quantitatively analyzed in both B-sensitive and B-tolerant cultivars treated by excess B-level. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis confirmed the B-responsive expressional changes obtained by RNA sequencing. Notably, some lncRNAs (i.e., TCONS_00045190 and TCONS_00056415) over-expressed only in B-tolerant cultivar upon excess B treatment. Presented data including identification, expression measurement, and functional characterization of barley lncRNAs suggest that B-stress response might also be regulated by lncRNA expression, via cooperative interaction of miRNA-eTM-coding target transcript modules.
An experimental trial was carried out during two successive crop years, (2015/2016 and 2016/2017). The study focused on an F1 generation of barley
Salinity-induced metabolic, ionic, and transcript modifications in plants have routinely been studied using whole plant tissues, which do not provide information on spatial tissue responses. The aim of this study was to assess the changes in the lipid profiles in a spatial manner and to quantify the changes in the elemental composition in roots of seedlings of four barley cultivars before and after a short-term salt stress. We used a combination of liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging, and reverse transcription - quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction platforms to examine the molecular signatures of lipids, ions, and transcripts in three anatomically different seminal root tissues before and after salt stress. We found significant changes to the levels of major lipid classes including a decrease in the levels of lysoglycerophospholipids, ceramides, and hexosylceramides and an increase in the levels of glycerophospholipids, hydroxylated ceramides, and hexosylceramides. Our results revealed that modifications to lipid and transcript profiles in plant roots in response to a short-term salt stress may involve recycling of major lipid species, such as phosphatidylcholine, via resynthesis from glycerophosphocholine.
Phytoalexins are inducible antimicrobial metabolites in plants, and have been indicated to be important for the rejection of microbial infection. HPLC analysis detected the induced accumulation of three compounds
Deschampsiaantarctica inhabits the maritime territory of Antarctica and South Patagonia. It grows under very harsh environmental conditions. The survival of this species in low freezing temperatures and under high levels of UV-B radiation may constitute some of the most remarkable adaptive plant responses and suggests that this plant possesses genes associated with cold and UV tolerance. Frequently, increased levels of flavonoids have been linked to highly UV-B irradiated plants. Studies examining the biosynthesis of flavonoids in D. antarctica may provide clues to its success in this extreme environment. In this study, we characterized the family of genes encoding chalcone synthase, a key enzyme of the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway. DaCHS was cloned, sequenced and characterized by using software tools. CHS contains two domains, the N-terminal domain ranges from amino acid 8 to 231 and the C-terminal domain ranges from amino acid 241 to 391. Sequence analysis of the three family members revealed a high degree of identity after comparison with other monocotyledons such as Oryza sativa L., Zea mays L. and Hordeum vulgare L. According to these results, DaCHS can be grouped together with H. vulgare CHS1 in the same branch. The phylogenetic tree was built using MEGA software and the neighbour join method with 1000 bootstrap replicates. A model of DaCHS was constructed by way of structural tools and key amino acid residues were identified at the active motif site.
Barley is the world's fourth most cultivated cereal and is an important crop model for genetic studies. One layer of genomic information that remains poorly explored in barley is presence/absence variation (PAV), which has been suggested to contribute to phenotypic variation of agronomic importance in various crops. An mRNA sequencing approach was used to study genomic PAV and transcriptomic variation in 23 spring barley inbreds. 1502 new genes identified here were physically absent from the Morex reference sequence, and 11,523 previously unannotated genes were not expressed in Morex. The procedure applied to detect expression PAV revealed that more than 50% of all genes of our data set are not expressed in all inbreds. Interestingly, expression PAV were not in strong linkage disequilibrium with neighboring sequence variants (SV), and therefore provided an additional layer of genetic information. Optimal combinations of expression PAV, SV, and gene abundance data could enhance the prediction accuracy of predicting three different agronomic traits. Our results highlight the advantage of mRNA sequencing for genomic prediction over other technologies, as it allows extracting multiple layers of genomic data from a single sequencing experiment. Finally, we propose low coverage mRNA sequencing based characterization of breeding material harvested as seedlings in petri dishes as a powerful and cost efficient approach to replace current single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) based characterizations.
HbMBF1a was isolated and characterized in H. brevisubulatum, and overexpressed HbMBF1a could enhance the salt tolerance and ABA insensitivity in Arabidopsis thaliana. The transcript levels of stress-responsive genes were significantly increased in the transgenic lines under salt and ABA conditions. Salinity is an abiotic stress that considerably affects plant growth, yield, and distribution. Hordeum brevisubulatum is a halophyte that evolved to become highly tolerant to salinity. Multiprotein bridging factor 1 (MBF1) is a transcriptional coactivator and an important regulator of stress tolerance. In this study, we isolated and characterized HbMBF1a based on the transcriptome data of H. brevisubulatum grown under saline conditions. We overexpressed HbMBF1a in Arabidopsis thaliana and compared the phenotypes of the transgenic lines and the wild-type in response to stresses. The results indicated that HbMBF1a expression was induced by salt and ABA treatments during the middle and late stages. The overexpression of HbMBF1a in A. thaliana resulted in enhanced salt tolerance and ABA insensitivity. More specifically, the enhanced salt tolerance manifested as the increased seed germination and seedling growth and development. Similarly, under ABA treatments, the cotyledon greening rate and seedling root length were higher in the HbMBF1a-overexpressing lines, suggesting the transgenic plants were better adapted to high exogenous ABA levels. Furthermore, the transcript levels of stress-responsive genes were significantly increased in the transgenic lines under salt and ABA conditions. Thus, HbMBF1a is a positive regulator of salt and ABA responses, and the corresponding gene may be useful for producing transgenic plants that are salt tolerant and/or ABA insensitive, with few adverse effects. This study involved a comprehensive analysis of HbMBF1a. The results may provide the basis and insight for the application of MBF1 family genes for developing stress-tolerant crops.
Adhesion of the barley husk to the underlying caryopsis requires the development of a cuticular cementing layer on the caryopsis surface. Differences in adhesion quality among genotypes have previously been correlated with cementing layer composition, which is thought to influence caryopsis cuticle permeability, the hypothesised mechanism of adhesion mediation. It is not yet known whether differences in adhesion quality among genotypes are determined by changes in caryopsis cuticle permeability. We examined changes in candidate cementing layer biosynthetic and regulatory genes to investigate the genetic mechanisms behind husk adhesion quality. We used both commercially relevant UK malting cultivars and older European lines to ensure phenotypic diversity in adhesion quality. An ethylene responsive transcription factor (NUD) is required for the development of the cementing layer. To examine correlations between gene expression, cementing layer permeability and husk adhesion quality we also treated cultivars with ethephon (2-chloroethylphosphonic acid) which breaks down to ethylene, and silver thiosulphate which inhibits ethylene reception, and measured caryopsis cuticle permeability. Differential adhesion qualities among genotypes are not determined by NUD expression during development of the cementing material alone, but could result from differences in biosynthetic gene expression during cementing layer development in response to longer-term NUD expression patterns. Altered caryopsis cuticle permeability does result in altered adhesion quality, but the correlation is not consistently positive or negative. Cuticle permeability is therefore not the mechanism that determines husk adhesion quality, but is likely a consequence of the required cuticular compositional changes that determine adhesion.
The distinct functions of individual cell types require cells to express specific sets of genes. The germinating seed is an excellent model to study genome regulation between cell types since the majority of the transcriptome is differentially expressed in a short period, beginning from a uniform, metabolically inactive state. In this study, we applied laser-capture microdissection RNA-sequencing to small numbers of cells from the plumule, radicle tip and scutellum of germinating barley seeds every 8 h, over a 48 h time course. Tissue-specific gene expression was notably common; 25% (910) of differentially expressed transcripts in plumule, 34% (1876) in radicle tip and 41% (2562) in scutellum were exclusive to that organ. We also determined that tissue-specific storage of transcripts occurs during seed development and maturation. Co-expression of genes had strong spatiotemporal structure, with most co-expression occurring within one organ and at a subset of specific time points during germination. Overlapping and distinct enrichment of functional categories were observed in the tissue-specific profiles. We identified candidate transcription factors amongst these that may be regulators of spatiotemporal gene expression programs. Our findings contribute to the broader goal of generating an integrative model that describes the structure and function of individual cells within seeds during germination.
An original RNA-seq mapping strategy, validated with chromosome engineering and physical mapping, identifies candidate genes for fertility restoration in the 6H
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade is a conserved and universal signal transduction module in organisms. Although it has been well characterized in many plants, no systematic analysis has been conducted in barley. Here, we identified 20 MAPKs, 6 MAPKKs and 156 MAPKKKs in barley through a genome-wide search against the updated reference genome. Then, phylogenetic relationship, gene structure and conserved protein motifs organization of them were systematically analyzed and results supported the predictions. Gene duplication analysis revealed that segmental and tandem duplication events contributed to the expansion of barley MAPK cascade genes and the duplicated gene pairs were found to undergone strong purifying selection. Expression profiles of them were further investigated in different organs and under diverse abiotic stresses using the available 173 RNA-seq datasets, and then the tissue-specific and stress-responsive candidates were found. Finally, co-expression regulatory network of MAPK cascade genes was constructed by WGCNA tool, resulting in a complicated network composed of a total of 72 branches containing 46 HvMAPK cascade genes and 46 miRNAs. This study provides the targets for further functional study and also contribute to better understand the MAPK cascade regulatory network in barley and beyond.
Osteoporosis is a disease that leads to reduced bone mineral density. The increase in patient and medical costs because of global aging is recognized as a problem. Decreased bone mass is a common symptom of bone diseases such as Paget's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and multiple myeloma. Osteoclasts, which directly affect bone mass, show a marked increase in differentiation and activation in the aforementioned diseases. Moreover, these multinucleated cells made from monocytes/macrophages under the influence of RANKL and M-CSF, are the only cells capable of resorbing bones. In this study, we found that the water extracts of Boseokchal (BSC-W) inhibited osteoclast differentiation in vitro and investigated its inhibitory mechanism. BSC-W was obtained by extracting flour of Boseokchal using hexane and water. To osteoclast differentiation, bone marrow-derived macrophage cells (BMMs) were cultured with the vehicle (0.1% DMSO) or BSC-W in the presence of M-CSF and RANKL for 4 days. Cytotoxicity was measured by CCK-8. Gene expression of cells was confirmed by real-time PCR. Protein expression of cells was observed by western blot assay. Bone resorption activity of osteoclast evaluated by bone pit formation assay using an Osteo Assay Plate. BSC-W inhibited RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis in a dose-dependent manner without exerting a cytotoxic effect on BMMs. BSC-W decreased the transcriptional and translational expression of c-Fos and NFATc1, which are regulators of osteoclastogenesis and reduced the mRNA expression level of TRAP, DC-STAMP, and cathepsin K, which are osteoclast differentiation marker. Furthermore, BSC-W reduced the resorption activity of osteoclasts. Taken together, our results indicate that BSC-W is a useful candidate for health functional foods or therapeutic agents that can help treat bone diseases such as osteoporosis.
Amino acids are vital components in cell metabolism. Leucine is a regulatory factor that generates significant impact on protein synthesis/turnover, modulates diverse cellular signalling pathways and participates in oxidative processes and immune responses. Here, we identified and characterized the functions of a leucine-associated Zn
Barley grain protein content (GPC) is an important quality factor that determines grain end-use value. The synthesis and accumulation of grain protein is highly dependent on the availability of nitrogen fertilizer, and it is important to understand the underlying control mechanisms of this. In the current study, the GPC and protein composition of mature grain seeds from Yangsimai 3 and Naso Nijo barley cultivars were analyzed. Grain storage subproteomes (albumin, glubulin, hordein and glutelin) were compared in the cultivars grown in both low and high nitrogen level conditions. The GPC of mature grain was significantly higher in Yangsimai 3 than Naso Nijo following nitrogen treatment. Albumin, hordein and glutelin content were increased in Yangsimai, while only hordein content was increased in Naso Nijo. Large-scale analysis of the grain storage subproteome revealed 152 differentially expressed protein spots on 2-DE gels with a pH range of 3-10. Among these, 42 and 66 protein spots were successfully identified by tandem mass spectrometry in Yangsimai 3 and Naso Nijo grown in low and high nitrogen conditions. The identified proteins were further grouped into thirteen categories according to their biological functions. This detailed analysis of grain subproteomes provides information on how barley GPC may be controlled by nitrogen supply.
Vacuolar processing enzymes (VPEs) play an important role during regular growth and development and defence responses. Despite substantial attempts to understand the molecular basis of plant-cyst nematode interaction, the mechanism of VPEs functioning during this interaction remains unknown. The second-stage Heterodera filipjevi juvenile penetrates host roots and induces the formation of a permanent feeding site called a syncytium. To investigate whether infection with H. filipjevi alters plant host VPEs, the studies were performed in Hordeum vulgare roots and leaves on the day of inoculation and at 7, 14 and 21 days post-inoculation (dpi). Implementing molecular, biochemical and microscopic methods we identified reasons for modulation of barley VPE activity during interaction with H. filipjevi. Heterodera filipjevi parasitism caused a general decrease of VPE activity in infected roots, but live imaging of VPEs showed that their activity is up-regulated in syncytia at 7 and 14 dpi and down-regulated at 21 dpi. These findings were accompanied by tissue-specific VPE gene expression patterns. Expression of the barley cystatin HvCPI-4 gene was stimulated in leaves but diminished in roots upon infestation. External application of cyclotides that can be produced naturally by VPEs elicits in pre-parasitic juveniles vesiculation of their body, enhanced formation of granules, induction of exploratory behaviour (stylet thrusts and head movements), production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and final death by methuosis. Taken together, down-regulation of VPE activity through nematode effectors promotes the nematode invasion rates and leads to avoidance of the induction of the plant proteolytic response and death of the invading juveniles.
CYP3RNA, a double-stranded (ds)RNA designed to concomitantly target the two sterol 14α-demethylase genes FgCYP51A and FgCYP51B and the fungal virulence factor FgCYP51C, inhibits the growth of the ascomycete fungus Fusarium graminearum (Fg) in vitro and in planta. Here we compare two different methods (setups) of dsRNA delivery, viz. transgene expression (host-induced gene silencing, HIGS) and spray application (spray-induced gene silencing, SIGS), to assess the activity of CYP3RNA and novel dsRNA species designed to target one or two FgCYP51 genes. Using Arabidopsis and barley, we found that dsRNA designed to target two FgCYP51 genes inhibited fungal growth more efficiently than dsRNA targeting a single gene, although both dsRNA species reduced fungal infection. Either dsRNA delivery method reduced fungal growth stronger than anticipated from previous mutational knock-out (KO) strategies, where single gene KO had no significant effect on fungal viability. Consistent with the strong inhibitory effects of the dsRNAs on fungal development in both setups, we detected to a large extent dsRNA-mediated co-silencing of respective non-target FgCYP51 genes. Together, our data further support the valuation that dsRNA applications have an interesting potential for pesticide target validation and gene function studies, apart from their potential for crop protection.
In field conditions, crops are adversely affected by a wide range of abiotic stresses including drought, cold, salt, and heat, as well as biotic stresses including pests and pathogens. These stresses can have a marked effect on crop yield. The present and future effects of climate change necessitate the improvement of crop stress tolerance. Plants have evolved sophisticated stress response strategies, and genes that encode transcription factors (TFs) that are master regulators of stress-responsive genes are excellent candidates for crop improvement. Related examples in recent studies include TF gene modulation and overexpression approaches in crop species to enhance stress tolerance. However, much remains to be discovered about the diverse plant TFs. Of the >80 TF families, only a few, such as NAC, MYB, WRKY, bZIP, and ERF/DREB, with vital roles in abiotic and biotic stress responses have been intensively studied. Moreover, although significant progress has been made in deciphering the roles of TFs in important cereal crops, fewer TF genes have been elucidated in sorghum. As a model drought-tolerant crop, sorghum research warrants further focus. This review summarizes recent progress on major TF families associated with abiotic and biotic stress tolerance and their potential for crop improvement, particularly in sorghum. Other TF families and non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression are discussed briefly. Despite the emphasis on sorghum, numerous examples from wheat, rice, maize, and barley are included. Collectively, the aim of this review is to illustrate the potential application of TF genes for stress tolerance improvement and the engineering of resistant crops, with an emphasis on sorghum.
Functional divergence after gene duplication plays a central role in plant evolution. Among cereals, only Hordeum vulgare (barley), Triticum aestivum (wheat) and Secale cereale (rye) accumulate delphinidin-derived (blue) anthocyanins in the aleurone layer of grains, whereas Oryza sativa (rice), Zea mays (maize) and Sorghum bicolor (sorghum) do not. The underlying genetic basis for this natural occurrence remains elusive. Here, we mapped the barley Blx1 locus involved in blue aleurone to an approximately 1.13 Mb genetic interval on chromosome 4HL, thus identifying a trigenic cluster named MbHF35 (containing HvMYB4H, HvMYC4H and HvF35H). Sequence and expression data supported the role of these genes in conferring blue-coloured (blue aleurone) grains. Synteny analyses across monocot species showed that MbHF35 has only evolved within distinct Triticeae lineages, as a result of dispersed gene duplication. Phylogeny analyses revealed a shared evolution pattern for MbHF35 in Triticeae, suggesting that these genes have co-evolved together. We also identified a Pooideae-specific flavonoid 3',5'-hydroxylase (F3'5'H) lineage, termed here Mo_F35H2, which has a higher amino acid similarity with eudicot F3'5'Hs, demonstrating a scenario of convergent evolution. Indeed, selection tests identified 13 amino acid residues in Mo_F35H2 that underwent positive selection, possibly driven by protein thermostablility selection. Furthermore, through the interrogation of barley germplasm there is evidence that HvMYB4H and HvMYC4H have undergone human selection. Collectively, our study favours blue aleurone as a recently evolved trait resulting from environmental adaptation. Our findings provide an evolutionary explanation for the absence of blue anthocyanins in other cereals and highlight the importance of gene functional divergence for plant diversity and environmental adaptation.
The ascomycete fungus Magnaporthe oryzae is a hemibiotrophic pathogen that causes rice blast disease. Magnaporthe oryzae infects rice leaves, stems and panicles, and induces severe reductions in yield. Effector proteins secreted by M. oryzae in planta are thought to be involved its virulence activity. Here, using RNA-sequencing (RNA-Seq), we generated transcriptome data for M. oryzae isolate Ina168 during the initial stages of infection. We prepared samples from conidia (the inoculum) and from peeled epidermal cotyledon tissue of susceptible barley Hordeum vulgare 'Nigrate' at 12, 24, 36 and 48 hours post-inoculation (hpi). We also generated a draft genome sequence of M. oryzae isolate Ina168 and used it as a reference for mapping the RNA-Seq reads. Gene expression profiling across all stages of M. oryzae infection revealed 1728 putative secreted effector protein genes. We selected seven such genes that were strongly up-regulated at 12 hpi and down-regulated at 24 or 36 hpi and performed gene knockout analysis to determine their roles in pathogenicity. Knockout of MoSVP, encoding a small putative secreted protein with a hydrophobic surface binding protein A domain, resulted in a reduction in pathogenicity, suggesting that MoSVP is a novel virulence effector of M. oryzae.
We studied the effect of zinc excess (1000 μM) and low positive temperature (4°C) on the IRT1 gene expression in barley roots and leaves. Exposure at each of the stress factors separately induced an increase in the content of the HvIRT1 gene transcripts, which was more pronounced in leaves. At the same time, the growth of seedlings continued. Under the combined action of the stress factors in the first 3 days, the amount of mRNA also increased, but after 7 days of exposure it significantly declined, which correlated with the complete inhibition of seedling growth. It is assumed that the seedling growth inhibition under the combined effect of zinc excess and low temperature is associated with a decrease in the transcriptional activity of the HvIRT1 gene, due to the deficiency in a number of trace elements under these conditions.
Analyses of barley mat-c loss of function mutants reveal deletions, splice-site mutations and nonsynonymous substitutions in a key gene regulating early flowering. Optimal timing of flowering is critical for reproductive success and crop yield improvement. Several major quantitative trait loci for flowering time variation have been identified in barley. In the present study, we analyzed two near-isogenic lines, BW507 and BW508, which were reported to carry two independent early-flowering mutant loci, mat-b.7 and mat-c.19, respectively. Both introgression segments are co-localized in the pericentromeric region of chromosome 2H. We mapped the mutation in BW507 to a 31 Mbp interval on chromosome 2HL and concluded that BW507 has a deletion of Mat-c, which is an ortholog of Antirrhinum majus CENTRORADIALIS (AmCEN) and Arabidopsis thaliana TERMINAL FLOWER1 (AtTFL1). Contrary to previous reports, our data showed that both BW507 and BW508 are Mat-c deficient and none of them are mat-b.7 derived. This work complements previous studies by identifying the uncharacterized mat-c.19 mutant and seven additional mat-c mutants. Moreover, we explored the X-ray structure of AtTFL1 for prediction of the functional effects of nonsynonymous substitutions caused by mutations in Mat-c.
In cereal grain, sucrose is converted into storage carbohydrates: mainly starch, fructan, and mixed-linkage (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan (MLG). Previously, endosperm-specific overexpression of the HvCslF6 gene in hull-less barley was shown to result in high MLG and low starch content in mature grains. Morphological changes included inwardly elongated aleurone cells, irregular cell shapes of peripheral endosperm, and smaller starch granules of starchy endosperm. Here we explored the physiological basis for these defects by investigating how changes in carbohydrate composition of developing grain impact mature grain morphology. Augmented MLG coincided with increased levels of soluble carbohydrates in the cavity and endosperm at the storage phase. Transcript levels of genes relating to cell wall, starch, sucrose, and fructan metabolism were perturbed in all tissues. The cell walls of endosperm transfer cells (ETCs) in transgenic grain were thinner and showed reduced mannan labelling relative to the wild type. At the early storage phase, ruptures of the non-uniformly developed ETCs and disorganization of adjacent endosperm cells were observed. Soluble sugars accumulated in the developing grain cavity, suggesting a disturbance of carbohydrate flow from the cavity towards the endosperm, resulting in a shrunken mature grain phenotype. Our findings demonstrate the importance of regulating carbohydrate partitioning in maintenance of grain cellularization and filling processes.
Flowering time is one of the most critical traits for plants' life cycles, which is influenced by various environment changes, such as global warming. Previous studies have suggested that to guarantee reproductive success, plants have shifted flowering times to adapt to global warming. Although many studies focused on the molecular mechanisms of early flowering, little was supported by the repeated sampling at different time points through the changing climate. To fully dissect the temporal and spatial evolutionary genetics of flowering time, we investigated nucleotide variation in ten flowering time candidate genes and nine reference genes for the same ten wild-barley populations sampled 28 years apart (1980-2008). The overall genetic differentiation was significantly greater in the descendant populations (2008) compared with the ancestral populations (1980); however, local adaptation tests failed to detect any single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)/indel under spatial-diversifying selection at either time point. By contrast, the WFABC (Wright-Fisher ABC-based approach) that detected 54 SNPs/indels was under strong selection during the past 28 generations. Moreover, all these 54 alleles were segregated in the ancestral populations, but fixed in the descendent populations. Among the top ten SNPs/indels, seven were located in genes of FT1 (FLOWERING TIME LOCUS T 1), CO1 (CONSTANS-LIKE PROTEIN 1), and VRN-H2 (VERNALIZATION-H2), which have been documented to be associated with flowering time regulation in barley cultivars. This study might suggest that all ten populations have undergone parallel evolution over the past few decades in response to global warming, and even an overwhelming local adaptation and ecological differentiation.
Aging-related processes in plant tissues are associated with changes in developmental and physiological processes relevant for stress tolerance and plant performance. While senescence-regulated processes have been extensively characterized in leaves, they remain poorly described in roots. Here, we investigated the physiological processes and molecular determinants underlying the senescence of seminal roots in hydroponically grown barley (
High affinity potassium transporters (HKT) are recognized as important genes for crop salt tolerance improvement. In this study, we investigated HvHKT1;5 as a candidate gene for a previously discovered quantitative trait locus that controls shoot Na
The spikelet is the basic unit of the grass inflorescence. In tetraploid (Triticum turgidum) and hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum), the spikelet is a short indeterminate branch with two proximal sterile bracts (glumes) followed by a variable number of florets, each including a bract (lemma) with an axillary flower. Varying levels of miR172 and/or its target gene Q (AP2L5) result in gradual transitions of glumes to lemmas, and vice versa. Here, we show that AP2L5 and its related paralog AP2L2 play critical and redundant roles in the specification of axillary floral meristems and lemma identity. AP2L2, also targeted by miR172, displayed similar expression profiles to AP2L5 during spikelet development. Loss-of-function mutants in both homeologs of AP2L2 (henceforth ap2l2) developed normal spikelets, but ap2l2 ap2l5 double mutants generated spikelets with multiple empty bracts before transitioning to florets. The coordinated nature of these changes suggest an early role of these genes in floret development. Moreover, the flowers of ap2l2 ap2l5 mutants showed organ defects in paleas and lodicules, including the homeotic conversion of lodicules into carpels. Mutations in the miR172 target site of AP2L2 were associated with reduced plant height, more compact spikes, promotion of lemma-like characters in glumes and smaller lodicules. Taken together, our results show that the balance in the expression of miR172 and AP2-like genes is crucial for the correct development of spikelets and florets, and that this balance has been altered during the process of wheat and barley (Hordeum vulgare) domestication. The manipulation of this regulatory module provides an opportunity to modify spikelet architecture and improve grain yield.
Wheat stripe rust, caused by Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici (Pst), is a global threat to wheat production. Aegilops tauschii, one of the wheat progenitors, carries the YrAS2388 locus for resistance to Pst on chromosome 4DS. We reveal that YrAS2388 encodes a typical nucleotide oligomerization domain-like receptor (NLR). The Pst-resistant allele YrAS2388R has duplicated 3' untranslated regions and is characterized by alternative splicing in the nucleotide-binding domain. Mutation of the YrAS2388R allele disrupts its resistance to Pst in synthetic hexaploid wheat; transgenic plants with YrAS2388R show resistance to eleven Pst races in common wheat and one race of P. striiformis f. sp. hordei in barley. The YrAS2388R allele occurs only in Ae. tauschii and the Ae. tauschii-derived synthetic wheat; it is absent in 100% (n = 461) of common wheat lines tested. The cloning of YrAS2388R will facilitate breeding for stripe rust resistance in wheat and other Triticeae species.
Nuclear import of proteins relies on nuclear import receptors called importins/karyopherins (Kaps), whose functions were reported in yeasts, fungi, plants, and animal cells, including cell cycle control, morphogenesis, stress sensing/response, and also fungal pathogenecity. However, limited is known about the physiological function and regulatory mechanism of protein import in the rice-blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. Here, we identified an ortholog of β-importin in M. oryzae encoded by an ortholog of KAP119 gene. Functional characterisation of this gene via reverse genetics revealed that it is required for vegetative growth, conidiation, melanin pigmentation, and pathogenicity of M. oryzae. The mokap119Δ mutant was also defective in formation of appressorium-like structure from hyphal tips. By affinity assay and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, we identified potential MoKap119-interacting proteins and further verified that MoKap119 interacts with the cyclin-dependent kinase subunit MoCks1 and mediates its nuclear import. Transcriptional profiling indicated that MoKap119 may regulate transcription of infection-related genes via MoCks1 regulation of MoSom1. Overall, our findings provide a novel insight into the regulatory mechanism of M. oryzae pathogenesis likely by MoKap119-mediated nuclear import of the cyclin-dependent kinase subunit MoCks1.
Networks of transcription factors regulate diverse physiological processes in plants to ensure that plants respond to abiotic stresses rapidly and efficiently. In this study, expression of two DREB/CBF genes, TaDREB3 and TaCBF5L, was modulated in transgenic wheat and barley, by using stress-responsive promoters HDZI-3 and HDZI-4. The promoters were derived from the durum wheat genes encoding the γ-clade TFs of the HD-Zip class I subfamily. The activities of tested promoters were induced by drought and cold in leaves of both transgenic species. Differences in sensitivity of promoters to drought strength were dependent on drought tolerance levels of cultivars used for generation of transgenic lines. Expression of the DREB/CBF genes under both promoters improved drought and frost tolerance of transgenic barley, and frost tolerance of transgenic wheat seedlings. Expression levels of the putative TaCBF5L downstream genes in leaves of transgenic wheat seedlings were up-regulated under severe drought, and up- or down-regulated under frost, compared to those of control seedlings. The application of TaCBF5L driven by the HDZI-4 promoter led to the significant increase of the grain yield of transgenic wheat, compared to that of the control wild-type plants, when severe drought was applied during flowering; although no yield improvements were observed when plants grew under well-watered conditions or moderate drought. Our findings suggest that the studied HDZI promoters combined with the DREB/CBF factors could be used in transgenic cereal plants for improvement of abiotic stress tolerance, and the reduction of negative influence of transgenes on plant development and grain yields.
Abscisic acid (ABA) is a phytohormone and a major determinant of seed dormancy in plants. Seed dormancy is gradually lost during dry storage, a process known as 'after-ripening', and this dormancy decay is related to a decline in ABA content and sensitivity in seeds after imbibition. In this study, we aimed at investigating the effect of after-ripening on ABA signaling in barley, our cereal model species. Phosphosignaling networks in barley grains were investigated by a large-scale analysis of phosphopeptides to examine potential changes in response pathways to after-ripening. We used freshly harvested (FH) and after-ripened (AR) barley grains which showed different ABA sensitivity. A total of 1,730 phosphopeptides were identified in barley embryos isolated from half-cut grains. A comparative analysis showed that 329 and 235 phosphopeptides were upregulated or downregulated, respectively after ABA treatment, and phosphopeptides profiles were quite different between FH and AR embryos. These results were supported by peptide motif analysis which suggested that different sets of protein kinases are active in FH and AR grains. Furthermore, in vitro phosphorylation assays confirmed that some phosphopeptides were phosphorylated by SnRK2s, which are major protein kinases involved in ABA signaling. Taken together, our results revealed very distinctive phosphosignaling networks in FH and AR embryos of barley, and suggested that the after-ripening of barley grains is associated with differential regulation of phosphosignaling pathways leading to a decay of ABA signaling.
Fermented feeds are being considered as practical alternatives to antimicrobial growth promoters (AGP) supplemented in nursery pig diets. This study aimed to investigate health-promoting effects of fermented barley in weaned pigs challenged with Escherichia coli K88 +. A total of 37 piglets were weaned at 21 ± 1 day of age (6.41 ± 0.47 kg of BW) and assigned to either of the following five treatment groups: (1) unchallenged control (UCC; n = 7), (2) challenged control (CC; n = 7), (3) AGP (CC + 0.1% AGP; n = 7), (4) Ferm1 (challenged and fed homofermentative Lactobacillus plantarum (Homo)-fermented barley; n = 8) and (5) Ferm2 (challenged and fed heterofermentative L. buchneri (Hetero)-fermented barley; n = 8). The control diet included unfermented barley. Barley was fermented with either Homo or Hetero for 90 days under anaerobic conditions. On day 10, all pigs except those in UCC group were orally inoculated with E. coli K88 + (6 × 109 colony forming units/ml). The pre-planned orthogonal test was performed to compare (1) UCC and CC, (2) CC and AGP, (3) CC and Ferm1 + Ferm2, as well as (4) Ferm1 and Ferm2. Challenged control pigs showed shorter (P < 0.05) villus height (VH) in the duodenum and deeper (P < 0.05) crypt depth (CD) in the jejunum than UCC pigs. The AGP group had higher (P < 0.05) VH and lower (P < 0.05) IL-6 gene expression in the jejunum compared with CC group. Compared to CC, Ferm1 and Ferm2 had decreased (P < 0.05) CD in the duodenum, IL-6 gene expression in the jejunum and rectal temperature at 24 h post-challenge. Pigs fed fermented barley diets showed greater (P < 0.05) faecal abundance of Clostridium Cluster IV and Lactobacilli than those fed UCC diet. Ferm2-fed pigs showed lower (P < 0.05) concentrations of band cells, eosinophils and lymphocytes at 6, 24 and 48 h after challenge, respectively, and lower (P < 0.05) faecal abundance of Enterobacteriaceae 24 h after challenge than the Ferm1-fed pigs. In conclusion, the substitution of unfermented barley with fermented barley in a nursery diet showed similar results as those shown by AGP supplementation in terms of enhancing the intestinal morphology and modulating faecal microbiota composition, as well as down-regulating the pro-inflammatory cytokines; therefore, fermented barley can be a possible nutritional strategy for managing nursery pigs fed diets without in-feed AGP.
Fusarium crown rot (FCR) is a chronic and severe disease in cereal production in semi-arid regions worldwide. A putative quantitative trait locus conferring FCR resistance, Qcrs.cpi-1H, had previously been mapped on the long arm of chromosome 1H in barley. In this study, five pairs of near-isogenic lines (NILs) targeting the 1HL locus were developed. Analysing the NILs found that the resistant allele at Qcrs.cpi-1H significantly reduced FCR severity. Transcriptomic analysis was then conducted against three of the NIL pairs, which placed the Qcrs.cpi-1H locus in an interval spanning about 11 Mbp. A total of 56 expressed genes bearing single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were detected in this interval. Five of them contain non-synonymous SNPs. These results would facilitate detailed mapping as well as cloning gene(s) underlying the resistance locus. NILs developed in this study and the transcriptomic sequences obtained from them did not only allow the validation of the resistance locus Qcrs.cpi-1H and the identification of candidate genes underlying its resistance, they also allowed the delineation of the resistance locus and the development of SNPs markers which formed a solid base for detailed mapping as well as cloning gene(s) underlying the locus.
Endogenous (˜24 circadian) rhythms control an enormously diverse range of processes in plants and are, increasingly, the target of studies aimed at understanding plant performance. Although in the previous few decades most plant circadian research has focused on Arabidopsis, there is a pressing need for low-cost, high-throughput tools for analyzing rhythms in a wider variety of species. The present contribution investigates using circadian temperature oscillations as a novel marker for assaying plant circadian rhythms. A thermal imaging platform was set up to measure diel and circadian rhythms in different plant species, in wild-type and circadian mutant plants, and in leaves and flowers. Results from the thermal imaging technique were compared with those from other established circadian assay techniques. All of the dicot and monocot species examined showed robust circadian rhythms of leaf surface temperature; the effects of circadian mutations on thermocycles were similar to those reported using other techniques. In Petunia × atkinsiana plants circadian oscillations were observed in both leaves and flowers. Thermal imaging is an extremely useful technique for analyzing circadian rhythms in plants. It is predicted that the ability to make very high temporal resolution measurements may facilitate the discovery of novel aspects of circadian control.
The HVA22 gene has been isolated for the first time from the aleurone layer of barley (Hordeum vulgare). Here, we characterized the HVA22 family from citrus (C. clementina and C. sinensis). Twelve genes, 6 in each species, were identified as well as duplication events for some of them. The ORF size ranged from 235 to 804 bp and the protein molecular weight from 94 to 267 kDa. All the citrus HVA22 protein presented transmembrane location and conserved TB2/DP1/HVA22 region. Phylogenetic and gene expression analyses suggested that some citrus HVA22 play a role in flower and fruit development, and that gene expression may be regulated by hormone or environmental conditions. Other regulation levels were also predicted, such as alternative splicing and post-translational modifications. The overall data indicated that citrus HVA22 may be involved in vesicular traffic in stressed cells, and that CcHVA22d could be involved in dehydration tolerance.
Lineage-specific genes (LSGs) are a set of genes in a given taxon without significant sequence similarity to genes and intergenic sequences of other taxa and are functional. The tribe Triticeae mainly includes species of different ploidy levels, such as staple food crops wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). This study is aimed at mining and characterizing the Triticeae-specific genes (TSGs) using expressed sequence data of wheat. A total of 3812 TSGs was identified and they were generally characterized by smaller size, fewer exons, shorter open reading frames and lower expression levels. Most TSGs were expressed with tissue preference and many of them were predominantly expressed in reproduction related tissues, especially in young stamen. Nearly one third of the TSGs were stress-responsive and inducible under abiotic and/or biotic stresses. A co-expression-based annotation supported the relevance of some TSGs with reproduction and stress responses, indicating their potential economic importance.
Casein kinases are serine/threonine protein kinases that are evolutionarily conserved in yeast and humans and are involved in a range of important cellular processes. However, the biological functions of casein kinases in the fungus
Barley is a low phosphorus (P) demand cereal crop. Tibetan wild barley, as a progenitor of cultivated barley, has revealed outstanding ability of tolerance to low-P stress. However, the underlying mechanisms of low-P adaption and the relevant genetic controlling are still unclear. We identified low-P tolerant barley lines in a doubled-haploid (DH) population derived from an elite Tibetan wild barley accession and a high-yield cultivar. The tolerant lines revealed greater root plasticity in the terms of lateral root length, compared to low-P sensitive lines, in response to low-P stress. By integrating the QTLs associated with root length and root transcriptomic profiling, candidate genes encoding isoflavone reductase, nitrate reductase, nitrate transporter and transcriptional factor MYB were identified. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) involved the growth of lateral root, Pi transport within cells as well as from roots to shoots contributed to the differences between low-P tolerant line L138 and low-P sensitive lines L73 in their ability of P acquisition and utilization. The plasticity of root system is an important trait for barley to tolerate low-P stress. The low-P tolerance in the elite DH line derived from a cross of Tibetan wild barley and cultivated barley is characterized by enhanced growth of lateral root and Pi recycling within plants under low-P stress.
Transcription factors such as MYB have previously been associated with the plant response to drought. In this work, studies on the function of the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) transcription factor HvMYB1 show that gene expression is upregulated in wildtype barley roots and leaves under drought and osmotic stress. Transgenic barley plants that overexpress HvMYB1 were found to be more resistant to drought, showing enhanced relative water content and reduced water loss rate and stomatal conductance as compared to control plants. Levels of the osmolyte proline were enhanced as was expression of dehydrin HvDNH6 in the transgenic lines under drought conditions. The levels of the reactive oxygen species H
The root microbiota is critical for agricultural yield, with growth-promoting bacteria able to solubilise phosphate, produce plant growth hormones, antagonise pathogens and fix N
Abiotic stress including extreme temperature disturbs the plant cellular homeostasis consequently limiting the yield potential of crop plants. Heat shock proteins (Hsps) are part of major rescue machinery of plants which aid to combat these stressed conditions by re-establishing protein homeostasis. Hsps with their chaperone and co-chaperone mechanisms regulate the activity of their substrate proteins in an ATP-dependent manner. In the present investigation, a genome-wide identification, evolutionary relationship, and comprehensive expression analysis of Hsp70, Hsp90, and Hsp100 gene families have been done in barley. The barley genome possesses 13 members of the Hsp70 gene family, along with 4 members of the Hsp110 subfamily, and 6 members of Hsp90 and 8 members of the Hsp100 gene family. Hsp genes are distributed on all 7 chromosomes of barley, and their encoded protein members are predicted to be localized to cell organelles such as cytosol, mitochondria, chloroplast, and ER. Despite a larger genome size, there are lesser members of these Hsp genes in barley, owing to less duplication events. The variable expression pattern obtained for genes encoding proteins localized to the same subcellular compartment suggests their diverse roles and involvement in different cellular responses. Expression profiling of these genes was performed by qRT-PCR in an array of 32 tissues, which showed a differential and tissue-specific expression of various members of Hsp gene families. We found the upregulation of HvHspc70-4, HvHsp70Mt70-2, HvHspc70-5a, HvHspc70-5b, HvHspc70-N1, HvHspc70-N2, HvHsp110-3, HvHsp90-1, HvHsp100-1, and HvHsp100-2 upon exposure to heat stress during reproductive development. Furthermore, their higher expression during heat stress, heavy metal stress, drought, and salinity stress was also observed in a tissue-specific manner.
Barley is among four of the most important cereal crops with respect to global production. Increasing barley yields to desired levels can be achieved by the genetic manipulation of cytokinin content. Cytokinins are plant hormones that regulate many developmental processes and have a strong influence on grain yield. Cytokinin homeostasis is regulated by members of several multigene families.
microRNA393 (miR393) and its target module have been implicated as comprising a conserved mechanism to regulate developmental processes and plant growth in response to environmental signals through the auxin signaling pathway. Our previous work identified miR393 and its two targets in barley. In this study, we further investigated the expression pattern of miR393 and its biological functions in seedling growth and drought tolerance. We showed that the miR393 overexpressing line (OE) exhibited increased stomatal density with decreased guard cell length, while the miR393 knockdown line (MIM) displayed the opposite phenotype, which might be due to the effects of miR393 on AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR5 (ARF5) and three stomatal development-related genes, such as EPIDERMAL PATTERNING FACTOR1 (EPF1), SPEECHLESS (SPCH), and MUTE. In addition, the MIM line conferred enhanced drought tolerance, with alleviated leaf chlorosis and lipid peroxidation after 22 days drought treatment. In contrast, the OE line was more sensitive to drought stress and accumulated more malondialdehyde and hydrogen peroxide than the wild type. Furthermore, polyethylene glycol (PEG) treatment-induced abscisic acid (ABA) accumulation in leaves was suppressed in the OE line, indicating that miR393 might regulate drought stress response and tolerance through its interaction with ABA biosynthesis. Overall, these data suggest that miR393 might be a potential target for manipulation of stomatal density and improvement of drought tolerance in barley.
Plants encounter pathogenic and non-pathogenic microorganisms on a nearly constant basis. Small RNAs such as siRNAs and miRNAs/milRNAs influence pathogen virulence and host defense responses. We exploited the biotrophic interaction between the powdery mildew fungus, Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh), and its diploid host plant, barley (Hordeum vulgare) to explore fungal and plant sRNAs expressed during Bgh infection of barley leaf epidermal cells. RNA was isolated from four fast-neutron immune-signaling mutants and their progenitor over a time course representing key stages of Bgh infection, including appressorium formation, penetration of epidermal cells, and development of haustorial feeding structures. The Cereal Introduction (CI) 16151 progenitor carries the resistance allele Mla6, while Bgh isolate 5874 harbors the AVR These data suggest that Bgh sRNAs regulate gene expression in metabolism, translation-related, and pathogen effectors. PARE-validated targets of predicted Bgh milRNAs include both EKA (effectors homologous to AVR
The review outlines past failures, present status and future prospects of hybrid wheat, and includes information on CMS/CHA/transgenic approaches for male sterility, heterotic groups and cost-effective hybrid seed production. Hybrid varieties give increased yield and improved grain quality in both cross- and self-pollinated crops. However, hybrid varieties in self-pollinated crops (particularly cereals) have not been very successful, except for hybrid rice in China. In case of hybrid wheat, despite the earlier failures, renewed efforts in recent years have been made and hybrid varieties with desirable attributes have been produced and marketed in some European countries. This review builds upon previous reviews, with a new outlook and improved knowledge base, not covered in earlier reviews. New technologies have been described, which include the Hordeum chilense-based CMS-fertility restorer system, chromosomal XYZ-4E-ms system and the following transgenic technologies: (1) conditional male sterility involving use of tapetum-specific expression of a gene that converts a pro-toxin into a phytotoxin causing male sterility; (2) barnase-barstar SeedLink system of Bayer CropScience; (3) split-barnase system that obviates the need of a barstar-based male restorer line; and (4) seed production technology of DuPont-Pioneer that makes use of transgenes in production of male-sterile lines, but gives hybrid seed with no transgenes. This review also includes a brief account of studies for discovery of heterotic QTL, genomic prediction of hybrid vigour and the development of heterotic groups/patterns and their importance in hybrid wheat production. The problem of high cost of hybrid seed due to required high seed rate in wheat relative to hybrid rice has also been addressed. The review concludes with a brief account of the current efforts and future possibilities in making hybrid wheat a commercial success.
Mineral nutrient limitation affects the water flow through plants. We wanted to test on barley whether any change in root-to-shoot ratio in response to low supply of nitrogen and phosphate is accompanied by changes in root and cell hydraulic properties and involves changes in aquaporin (AQP) gene expression and root apoplastic barriers (suberin lamellae, Casparian bands). Plants were grown hydroponically on complete nutrient solution or on solution containing only 3.3 % or 2.5 % of the control level of nutrient. Plants were analysed when they were 14-18 d old. Nutrient-limited plants adjusted water flow to an increased root-to-shoot surface area ratio through a reduction in root hydraulic conductivity (Lp) as determined through exudation analyses. Cortex cell Lp (cell pressure probe analyses) decreased in the immature but not the mature region of the main axis of seminal roots and in primary lateral roots. The aquaporin inhibitor HgCl2 reduced root Lp most in nutrient-sufficient control plants. Exchange of low-nutrient for control media caused a rapid (20-80 min) and partial recovery in Lp, though cortex cell Lp did not increase in any of the root regions analysed. The gene expression level (qPCR analyses) of five plasma membrane-localized AQP isoforms did not change in bulk root extracts, while the formation of apoplastic barriers increased considerably along the main axis of root and lateral roots in low-nutrient treatments. Decrease in root and cortex cell Lp enables the adjustment of root water uptake to increased root-to-shoot area ratio in nutrient-limited plants. Aquaporins are the prime candidate to play a key role in this response. Modelling of water flow suggests that some of the reduction in root Lp is due to increased formation of apoplastic barriers.
Control of K+ and Na+ transport plays a central role in plant adaptation to salinity. In the halophyte Hordeum maritimum, we have characterized a transporter gene, named HmHKT2;1, whose homolog HvHKT2;1 in cultivated barley, Hordeum vulgare, was known to give rise to increased salt tolerance when overexpressed. The encoded protein is strictly identical in two H. maritimum ecotypes, from two biotopes (Tunisian sebkhas) affected by different levels of salinity. These two ecotypes were found to display distinctive responses to salt stress in terms of biomass production, Na+ contents, K+ contents and K+ absorption efficiency. Electrophysiological analysis of HmHKT2;1 in Xenopus oocytes revealed distinctive properties when compared with HvHKT2;1 and other transporters from the same group, especially a much higher affinity for both Na+ and K+, and an Na+-K+ symporter behavior in a very broad range of Na+ and K+ concentrations, due to reduced K+ blockage of the transport pathway. Domain swapping experiments identified the region including the fifth transmembrane segment and the adjacent extracellular loop as playing a major role in the determination of the affinity for Na+ and the level of K+ blockage in these HKT2;1 transporters. The analysis (quantitative reverse transcription-PCR; qRT-PCR) of HmHKT2;1 expression in the two ecotypes submitted to saline conditions revealed that the levels of HmHKT2;1 transcripts were maintained constant in the most salt-tolerant ecotype whereas they decreased in the less tolerant one. Both the unique functional properties of HmHKT2;1 and the regulation of the expression of the encoding gene could contribute to H. maritimum adaptation to salinity.
Temperature compensation, expressed as the ability to maintain clock characteristics (mainly period) in face of temperature changes, that is, robustness, is considered a key feature of circadian clock systems. In this study, we explore the genetic basis for lack of robustness, that is, plasticity, of circadian clock as reflected by photosynthesis rhythmicity. The clock rhythmicity of a new wild barley reciprocal doubled haploid population was analysed with a high temporal resolution of pulsed amplitude modulation of chlorophyll fluorescence under optimal (22°C) and high (32°C) temperature. This comparison between two environments pointed to the prevalence of clock acceleration under heat. Genotyping by sequencing of doubled haploid lines indicated a rich recombination landscape with minor fixation (less than 8%) for one of the parental alleles. Quantitative genetic analysis included genotype by environment interactions and binary-threshold models. Variation in the circadian rhythm plasticity phenotypes, expressed as change (delta) of period and amplitude under two temperatures, was associated with maternal organelle genome (the plasmotype), as well as with several nuclear loci. This first reported rhythmicity driven by nuclear loci and plasmotype with few identified variants, paves the way for studying impact of cytonuclear variations on clock robustness and on plant adaptation to changing environments.
An endoglucanase was isolated from solid-state culture of the ectomycorrhizal fungus Tricholoma matsutake (TmEgl5A) grown on rolled barley and vermiculite. The enzyme was purified by ammonium sulfate fractionation, ion-exchange, hydrophobic, and gel filtration. TmEgl5A showed a molecular mass of approximately 40 kDa as determined by SDS-PAGE. The single band of the protein was analyzed by peptide-mass-finger-printing using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) and the trypsin-digested peptide sequences were matched to a putative endoglucanase sequence (protein ID1465229) in the JGI T. matsutake 945 v3.0 genome database. Based on the sequence information, the gene encoding TmEgl was cloned and expressed in Pichia pastoris KM71H. The deduced amino acid sequence was similar to GH5 family endoglucanases from Basidiomycetes. The enzyme acts on barley β-glucan, lichenan, and CMC-Na. The hydrolyzation products from these substrates were detected by thin-layer chromatography as oligosaccharides with minimal disaccharides. These results suggested that T. matsutake produces a typical endoglucanase in solid-state culture, and the fungus has the potential to degrade β-linkage polysaccharides.
To investigate the effect of high atmospheric NO concentrations on crop plants and the role of phytoglobins under these conditions, we performed a long-term study on barley 'Golden Promise' wild type (WT), class 1 phytoglobin knockdown (HvPgb1.1-) and class 1 phytoglobin overexpression (HvPgb1.1+) lines. Plants were cultivated with nitrogen-free nutrient solution during the entire growth period and were fumigated with different NO concentration (ambient, 800, 1500, and 3000 ppb). Analysis of fresh weight, stem number, chlorophyll content, and effective quantum yield of PSII showed that NO fumigation promoted plant growth and tillering significantly in the HvPgb1.1+ line. After 80 d of NO fumigation, dry matter weight, spikes number, kernel number, and plant kernel weight were significantly increased in HvPgb1.1+ plants with increasing NO concentration. In contrast, yield decreased in WT and HvPgb1.1- plants the higher the NO level. Application of atmospheric 15NO and 15NO2 demonstrated NO specificity of phytoglobins. 15N from 15NO could be detected in RNA, DNA, and proteins of barley leaves and the 15N levels were significantly higher in HvPgb1.1+ plants in comparison with HvPgb1.1- and WT plants. Our results demonstrate that overexpression of phytoglobins allows plants to more efficiently use atmospheric NO as N source.
The kidney is an essential organ required by the body to perform several important functions. Nephrotoxicity is one of the most prevailing kidney complications that result from exposure to an extrinsic or intrinsic toxicant, which increase the need for the acquisition of proper remedies. Recently, natural remedies are gaining great attention owed to the fact that they have fewer side effects than most conventional drugs. The current study recorded a new therapeutic role of the well-known medicinal plants for kidney stones [Ammi visnaga (AVE), Petroselinum crispum (PCE), Hordeum vulgare (HVE), and Cymbopogon schoenanthus (CSE)]. Hence, the aqueous extracts of these plants examined against CCl These extracts showed the presence of varying amounts of phenolic and triterpenoid compounds, as well as vitamin C. Owing to the antioxidant potential of these constituents, the extracts suppressed the CCl Thus, the studied plant extracts, especially AVE can be considered as promising extracts in the management of nephrotoxicity and other chronic diseases associated with oxidative stress and inflammation.
Plant male sterility is a valuable trait in breeding and hybrid seed production. The barley male-sterility gene msg26 was mapped to a 0.02-cM region that anchors to a 506-kb low-quality assembly between two cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence (CAPS) markers, SP1M14 and SP1M49. The barley gene HORVU4Hr1G074840, which encodes a putative cytochrome P450 CYP704B protein, appears to be a strong candidate for the MSG26 trait. Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is an important cereal crop worldwide. Traditional breeding in barley is time-consuming and labor-intensive. The use of male-sterile genotypes may significantly improve the efficacy of hybrid breeding and seed production. The barley accession 'GSHO745' is a spontaneous male-sterile mutant from the barley variety, 'Unitan'. The male sterility in 'GSHO745' is controlled by the recessive gene, msg26 (originally named as ms-u). We revealed that the barley plants homozygous for msg26 proceeded normally through Meiosis II until the tetrad stage, but became fully defective in the late uninucleate microspores and developed pollen-less anthers. Using seven barley F
Arabidopsis thaliana's VirE2-Interacting Protein 1 (VIP1) interacts with Agrobacterium tumefaciens VirE2 protein and regulates stress responses and plant immunity signaling occurring downstream of the Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MPK3) signal transduction pathway. In this study, a full-length cDNA of 972bp encoding HvVIP1 was obtained from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) leaves. A corresponding 323 amino acid poly-peptide was shown to carry the conserved bZIP (Basic Leucine Zipper) domain within its 157th and 223rd amino acid residue. 13 non-synonymous SNPs were spotted within the HvVIP1 bZIP domain sequence when compared with AtVIP1. Moreover, minor differences in the bZIP domain locations and lengths were noted when comparing Arabidopsis thaliana and Hordeum vulgare VIP1 proteins through the 3D models, structural domain predictions and disorder prediction profiling. The expression of HvVIP1 was stable in barley tissues infected by pathogen (whether Agrobacterium tumefaciens or Fusarium culmorum), but was induced at specific time points. We found a strong correlation between the transcript accumulation of HvVIP1 and barley PR- genes HvPR1, HvPR4 and HvPR10, but not with HvPR3 and HvPR5, probably due to low induction of those particular genes. In addition, a gene encoding for a member of the barley MAPK family, HvMPK1, showed significantly higher expression after pathogenic infection of barley cells. Collectively, our results might suggest that early expression of PR genes upon infection in barley cells play a pivotal role in the Agrobacterium-resistance of this plant.
The homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) gene family plays an important role in plant growth and environmental responses. At present, research on the HD-Zip gene family of barley is incomplete. In this study, 32 HD-Zip genes (HvHD-Zip 1-32) were identified from the barley genome and were subsequently divided into four subfamilies according to conserved structure and motif analysis. Whole genome replication events in barley and Arabidopsis, rice, and wheat HD-Zip gene families were analyzed, yielding 3, 14 and 25 gene pairs, respectively, but no segmental or tandem duplication events were identified in the barley HD-Zip gene family. Subsequently, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis revealed that the HvHD-Zip gene is sensitive to drought stress and that members of the HD-Zip I and HD-Zip IV subfamilies are generally more sensitive to abiotic stresses. Our results suggest a relationship between barley resistance and the potential key HvHD-Zip gene, which lay the foundation for further functional studies.
Several classes of transcription factors are involved in the activation of defensins. A new type of the transcription factor responsible for the regulation of wheat grain specific defensins was characterised in this work. HD-Zip class IV transcription factors constitute a family of multidomain proteins. A full-length cDNA of HD-Zip IV, designated TaGL7 was isolated from the developing grain of bread wheat, using a specific DNA sequence as bait in the Y1H screen. 3D models of TaGL7 HD complexed with DNA cis-elements rationalised differences that underlined accommodations of binding and non-binding DNA, while the START-like domain model predicted binding of lipidic molecules inside a concave hydrophobic cavity. The 3'-untranslated region of TaGL7 was used as a probe to isolate the genomic clone of TdGL7 from a BAC library prepared from durum wheat. The spatial and temporal activity of the TdGL7 promoter was tested in transgenic wheat, barley and rice. TdGL7 was expressed mostly in ovary at fertilisation and its promoter was active in a liquid endosperm during cellularisation and later in the endosperm transfer cells, aleurone, and starchy endosperm. The pattern of TdGL7 expression resembled that of genes that encode grain-specific lipid transfer proteins, particularly defensins. In addition, GL7 expression was upregulated by mechanical wounding, similarly to defensin genes. Co-bombardment of cultured wheat cells with TdGL7 driven by constitutive promoter and seven grain or root specific defensin promoters fused to GUS gene, revealed activation of four promoters. The data confirmed the previously proposed role of HD-Zip IV transcription factors in the regulation of genes that encode lipid transfer proteins involved in lipid transport and defence. The TdGL7 promoter could be used to engineer cereal grains with enhanced resistance to insects and fungal infections.
Plants are usually exposed to several types of abiotic stress in regular field conditions. The lipid profile of barley homozygous lines exposed to drought, heat, salinity, and their combinations, was investigated in the present study. Free fatty acids, free sterols, and diacylglycerols were the most abundant classes (∼8.0% of plant material). The genetic background significantly impacted the lipid composition rather than the treatments, and diacylglycerols were the only lipid class affected by salinity (1.84 mg/100 mg plant tissue; ∼33% reduction). However, the genotype × treatment interaction analysis revealed that the lipid and sterol compositions depended on both genotype and environment. Our results suggest that inborn stress tolerance in barley is manifested by enhanced accumulation of most lipids, mainly sterols, especially in heat/drought-stressed plants. In addition, expression of the LTP2 gene may be indirectly involved in the abiotic stress reaction of barley by mediating intracellular transport of some lipid classes.
The caryopses of barley become firmly adhered to the husk during grain development through a cuticular cementing layer on the caryopsis surface. The degree of this attachment varies among cultivars, with poor quality adhesion causing "skinning", an economically significant grain quality defect for the malting industry. Malting cultivars encompassing a range of husk adhesion qualities were grown under a misting treatment known to induce skinning. Development of the cementing layer was examined by electron microscopy and compositional changes of the cementing layer were investigated with gas-chromatography followed by mass spectroscopy. Changes in gene expression during adhesion development were examined with a custom barley microarray. The abundance of transcripts involved early in cuticular lipid biosynthesis, including those encoding acetyl-CoA carboxylase, and all four members of the fatty acid elongase complex of enzymes, was significantly higher earlier in caryopsis development than later. Genes associated with subsequent cuticular lipid biosynthetic pathways were also expressed higher early in development, including the decarbonylation and reductive pathways, and sterol biosynthesis. Changes in cuticular composition indicate that lowered proportions of alkanes and higher proportions of fatty acids are associated with development of good quality husk adhesion, in addition to higher proportions of sterols.
Aphids, including the bird cherry-oat aphid (Rhopalosiphum padi), are significant agricultural pests. The wild relative of barley, Hordeum spontaneum 5 (Hsp5), has been described to be partially resistant to R. padi, with this resistance proposed to involve higher thionin and lipoxygenase gene expression. However, the specificity of this resistance to aphids and its underlying mechanistic processes are unknown. In this study, we assessed the specificity of Hsp5 resistance to aphids and analysed differences in aphid probing and feeding behaviour on Hsp5 and a susceptible barley cultivar (Concerto). We found that partial resistance in Hsp5 to R. padi extends to two other aphid pests of grasses. Using the electrical penetration graph technique, we show that partial resistance is mediated by phloem- and mesophyll-based resistance factors that limit aphid phloem ingestion. To gain insight into plant traits responsible for partial resistance, we compared non-glandular trichome density, defence gene expression, and phloem composition of Hsp5 with those of the susceptible barley cultivar Concerto. We show that Hsp5 partial resistance involves elevated basal expression of thionin and phytohormone signalling genes, and a reduction in phloem quality. This study highlights plant traits that may contribute to broad-spectrum partial resistance to aphids in barley.
The hormonal ratios along the barley spike regulate the development, atrophy and abortion of the spikelets and could be the mechanism by which the barley spike adapts its yield potential. Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is one of the oldest cereal crops known to be cultivated since about 10,000 years. The inflorescence of cultivated barley is an indeterminate spike that produces three single-flowered spikelets at each rachis node which make it unique among the grasses. The yield production in barley is predominantly controlled by very important parameters such as number of tillers and number of spikelets per spike. These two parameters are negatively correlated. Therefore, studying the biological and genetics of the spikelet development during the spike developmental stages is essential for breeding programs. Here we summarize our current understanding of the crosstalk between hormones such as auxin, cytokinin, gibberellin and abscisic acid along the spike and what is their role in regulating spike and spikelet development in barley. We conclude that the hormonal ratios at the apical, central, and basal sections of the spike not only regulate the spike developmental stages, but also the development, atrophy, and abortion of the spikelets. This hormonal dependent modification of the grain number along the spike could be the mechanism by which the barley spike adapts its yield potential.
Xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolases (XTHs)-a family of xyloglucan modifying enzymes-play an essential role in the construction and restructuring of xyloglucan cross-links. However, no comprehensive study has been performed on this gene family in barley. A total of 24
Control of gene expression and induction of cellular protection mechanisms are two important processes that plants employ to protect themselves against abiotic stresses. ABA-, stress, and ripening-induced (ASR) proteins have been identified to participate in such responses. Previous studies have proposed that these proteins can act as transcription factors and as molecular chaperones protecting transgenic plants against stresses; however a gene network regulated by ASRs has not been explored. To expand our knowledge on the function of these proteins in cereals, we present the functional characterization of a barley ASR gene. Expression of HvASR5 was almost ubiquitous in different organs and responded to ABA and to different stress treatments. When expressed ectopically, HvASR5 was able to confer drought and salt stress tolerance to Arabidopsis thaliana and to improve growth performance of rice plants under stress conditions. A transcriptomic analysis with two transgenic rice lines overexpressing HvASR5 helped to identify potential downstream targets and understand ASR-regulated cellular processes. HvASR5 up-regulated the expression of a distinct set of genes associated with stress responses, metabolic processes (particularly carbohydrate metabolism), as well as reproduction and development. These data, together with the confirmed nuclear and cytoplasmic localization of HvASR5, further support the hypothesis that HvASR5 can also carry out roles as molecular protector and transcriptional regulator.
In plants, heat shock proteins (Hsps) play important roles in response to diverse stresses. Hsp20 is the major family of Hsps, but their role remains poorly understood in barley (
Phytases are pro-nutritional enzymes that hydrolyze phytate and make associated nutrients, such as phosphorous, iron, and zinc, bioavailable. Single-stomached animals and humans depend on phytase supplied through the diet or the action of phytase on the food before ingestion. As a result, phytases-or lack thereof-have a profound impact on agricultural ecosystems, resource management, animal health, and public health. Wheat, barley and their Triticeae relatives make exceptionally good natural sources of phytase. This review highlights advances in the understanding of the molecular basis of the phytase activity in wheat and barley, which has taken place over the past decade. It is shown how the phytase activity in the mature grains of wheat and barley can be ascribed to the
Broadening the genetic base of crops is crucial for developing varieties to respond to global agricultural challenges such as climate change. Here, we analysed a diverse panel of 371 domesticated lines of the model crop barley to explore the genetics of crop adaptation. We first collected exome sequence data and phenotypes of key life history traits from contrasting multi-environment common garden trials. Then we applied refined statistical methods, including some based on exomic haplotype states, for genotype-by-environment (G×E) modelling. Sub-populations defined from exomic profiles were coincident with barley's biology, geography and history, and explained a high proportion of trial phenotypic variance. Clear G×E interactions indicated adaptation profiles that varied for landraces and cultivars. Exploration of circadian clock-related genes, associated with the environmentally adaptive days to heading trait (crucial for the crop's spread from the Fertile Crescent), illustrated complexities in G×E effect directions, and the importance of latitudinally based genic context in the expression of large-effect alleles. Our analysis supports a gene-level scientific understanding of crop adaption and leads to practical opportunities for crop improvement, allowing the prioritisation of genomic regions and particular sets of lines for breeding efforts seeking to cope with climate change and other stresses.
Crop plant resistance against pathogens is governed by dynamic molecular and biochemical responses driven by complex transcriptional networks. However, the underlying mechanisms are largely unclear. Here we report an interesting role of HvWRKY23 transcription factor (TF) in modulating defense response against Fusarium head blight (FHB) in barley. The combined approach of gene silencing, metabolomics, real time expression analysis and ab initio bioinformatics tools led to the identification of the HvWRKY23 role in FHB resistance. The knock-down of HvWRKY23 gene in the FHB resistant barley genotype CI9831, followed by inoculation with Fusarium graminearum, led to the down regulation of key flavonoid and hydroxycinnamic acid amide biosynthetic genes resulting in reduced accumulation of resistant related (RR) secondary metabolites such as pelargonidin 3-rutinoside, peonidin 3-rhamnoside-5-glucoside, kaempferol 3-O-arabinoside and other flavonoid glycosides. Reduced abundances of RR metabolites in TF silenced plants were also associated with an increased proportion of spikelets diseased and amount of fungal biomass in spikelets, depicting the role of HvWRKY23 in disease resistance. The luciferase reporter assay demonstrated binding of HvWRKY23 protein to promoters of key flavonoid and hydroxycinnamic acid amides (HCAA) biosynthetic genes, such as HvPAL2, HvCHS1, HvHCT, HvLAC15 and HvUDPGT. The accumulation of high abundances of HCAAs and flavonoid glycosides reinforce cell walls to contain the pathogen to initial infection area. This gene in commercial cultivars can be edited, if non-functional, to enhance resistance against FHB.
Plant cell walls play a fundamental role in several ways, providing structural support for cells, resistance against pathogens and facilitating the communication between cells. The glycosyltransferase family 8 (GT8) is involved in the formation of the plant cell wall. However, the evolutionary relationship and the functional differentiation of this important gene family remain obscure in Gramineae crop genomes. In the present investigation, we identified 269 GT8 genes in the seven Gramineae representative crop genomes, namely, 33 in
Cysteine-rich receptor-like kinases (CRK) constitute one of the largest subfamily of receptor-like kinases, which play crucial roles in plant development and stress response. In total, 43, 37, 36, 38 and 170 CRK genes including duplicated genes were identified in the genome of Brachypodium distachyon, Hordeum vulgare, Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor and Triticum aestivum, respectively. These CRK proteins were tightly clustered into four phylogenetic groups and exhibited close syntenic relationship among orthologous genes. Majority of CRK proteins contain a transmembrane domain for plasma membrane localization. The organization of exon/intron, domains and motifs were variably conserved. Tissue-specific expression suggested the involvement of certain CRK genes in plant development. Modulated expression revealed their specific stress-responsive functions. Co-expression and interaction analysis indicated their role in signaling. Ks value and divergence time analysis suggested duplication of TaCRK genes before the hybridization of T. aestivum sub-genomes. Expression comparison of duplicated TaCRK genes revealed functional retention, neofunctionalization or pseudo-functionalization. Recombinant expression of a stress-responsive gene TaCRK68-A in Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae displayed enhanced tolerance against heat, drought, cold and salinity stresses. The study suggested vital functions of CRKs during development and stresses, and provides the basis for functional characterization of each gene in future studies.
Arabidopsis thaliana cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channel gene 4 (AtCNGC4) loss-of-function mutant dnd2 exhibits elevated accumulation of salicylic acid (SA), dwarfed morphology, reduced hypersensitive response (HR), altered disease resistance and spontaneous lesions on plant leaves. An orthologous barley mutant, nec1, has been reported to over-accumulate indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and to exhibit changes in stomatal regulation in response to exogenous auxin. Here we show that the Arabidopsis dnd2 over-accumulates both IAA and abscisic acid (ABA) and displays related phenotypic and physiological changes, such as, reduced stomatal size, higher stomatal density and stomatal index. dnd2 showed increased salt tolerance in root growth assay and significantly reduced stomatal conductance, while maintaining near wt reaction in stomatal conductance upon external application of ABA, and probably consequently increased drought stress tolerance. Introduction of both sid2-1 and fmo1 into dnd2 background resulting in removal of SA did not alter stomatal conductance. Hence, the closed stomata of dnd2 is probably a result of increased ABA levels and not increased SA levels. The triple dnd2sid2abi1-1 mutant exhibited intermediate stomatal conductance compared to dnd2 and abi1-1 (ABA insensitive, open stomata), while the response to external ABA was as in abi1-1 suggesting that reduced stomatal conductance in dnd2 is not due to impaired ABA signaling. In conclusion, Arabidopsis dnd2 mutant exhibited ABA overaccumulation and stomatal phenotypes, which may contribute to the observed improvement in drought stress resistance. Thus, Arabidopsis dnd2 mutant may serve as a model for studying crosstalk between biotic and abiotic stress and hormonal response in plants.
Many plants dramatically elongate their stems during flowering, yet how this response is coordinated with the reproductive phase is unclear. We demonstrate that microRNA (miRNA) control of
Although many genetic manipulations of crops providing biofortified or safer food have been done, the acceptance of biotechnology crops still remains limited. We report on a transgenic barley expressing the multi-functional protein osmotin that improves plant defense under stress conditions. An Agrobacterium-mediated technique was used to transform immature embryos of the spring barley cultivar Golden Promise. Transgenic barley plants of the T0 and T1 generation were evaluated by molecular methods. Transgenic barley tolerance to stress was determined by chlorophyll, total protein, malondialdehyde and ascorbate peroxidase content. Methanol extracts of i) Fusarium oxysporum infected or ii) salt-stressed plants, were characterized by their acute toxicity effect on human dermal fibroblasts (HDF), genotoxicity and affection of biodiversity interactions, which was tested through monitoring barley natural virus pathogen-host interactions-the BYDV and WDV viruses transmitted to the plants by aphids and leafhoppers. Transgenic plants maintained the same level of chlorophyll and protein, which significantly declined in wild-type barley under the same stressful conditions. Salt stress evoked higher ascorbate peroxidase level and correspondingly less malondialdehyde. Osmotin expressing barley extracts exhibited a lower cytotoxicity effect of statistical significance than that of wild-type plants under both types of stress tested on human dermal fibroblasts. Extract of Fusarium oxysporum infected transgenic barley was not able to damage DNA in the Comet assay, which is in opposite to control plants. Moreover, this particular barley did not affect the local biodiversity. Our findings provide a new perspective that could help to evaluate the safety of products from genetically modified crops.
In nature, beneficial and pathogenic fungi often simultaneously colonise plants. Despite substantial efforts to understand the composition of natural plant-microbe communities, the mechanisms driving such multipartite interactions remain largely unknown. Here we address how the interaction between the beneficial root endophyte Serendipita vermifera and the pathogen Bipolaris sorokiniana affects fungal behaviour and determines barley host responses using a gnotobiotic soil-based split-root system. Fungal confrontation in soil resulted in induction of B. sorokiniana genes involved in secondary metabolism and a significant repression of genes encoding putative effectors. In S. vermifera, genes encoding hydrolytic enzymes were strongly induced. This antagonistic response was not activated during the tripartite interaction in barley roots. Instead, we observed a specific induction of S. vermifera genes involved in detoxification and redox homeostasis. Pathogen infection but not endophyte colonisation resulted in substantial host transcriptional reprogramming and activation of defence. In the presence of S. vermifera, pathogen infection and disease symptoms were significantly reduced despite no marked alterations of the plant transcriptional response. The activation of stress response genes and concomitant repression of putative effector gene expression in B. sorokiniana during confrontation with the endophyte suggest a reduction of the pathogen's virulence potential before host plant infection.
Plant viruses have been used as rapid and cost-effective expression vectors for heterologous protein expression in genomic studies. However, delivering large or multiple foreign proteins in monocots and insect pests is challenging. Here, we recovered a recombinant plant cytorhabdovirus, Barley yellow striate mosaic virus (BYSMV), for use as a versatile expression platform in cereals and the small brown planthopper (SBPH, Laodelphax striatellus) insect vector. We engineered BYSMV vectors to provide versatile expression platforms for simultaneous expression of three foreign proteins in barley plants and SBPHs. Moreover, BYSMV vectors could express the c. 600-amino-acid β-glucuronidase (GUS) protein and a red fluorescent protein stably in systemically infected leaves and roots of cereals, including wheat, barley, foxtail millet, and maize plants. Moreover, we have demonstrated that BYSMV vectors can be used in barley to analyze biological functions of gibberellic acid (GA) biosynthesis genes. In a major technical advance, BYSMV vectors were developed for simultaneous delivery of CRISPR/Cas9 nuclease and single guide RNAs for genomic editing in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. Taken together, our results provide considerable potential for rapid screening of functional proteins in cereals and planthoppers, and an efficient approach for developing other insect-transmitted negative-strand RNA viruses.
Water deficit and soil salinity substantially influence plant growth and productivity. When occurring individually, plants often exhibit reduced growth resulting in yield losses. The simultaneous occurrence of these stresses enhances their negative effects. Unraveling the molecular mechanisms of combined abiotic stress responses is essential to secure crop productivity under unfavorable environmental conditions. This study examines the effects of water deficit, salinity and a combination of both on growth and transcriptome plasticity of barley seminal roots by RNA-Seq. Exposure to water deficit and combined stress for more than 4 days significantly reduced total seminal root length. Transcriptome sequencing demonstrated that 60 to 80% of stress type-specific gene expression responses observed 6 h after treatment were also present after 24 h of stress application. However, after 24 h of stress application, hundreds of additional genes were stress-regulated compared to the short 6 h treatment. Combined salt and water deficit stress application results in a unique transcriptomic response that cannot be predicted from individual stress responses. Enrichment analyses of gene ontology terms revealed stress type-specific adjustments of gene expression. Further, global reprogramming mediated by transcription factors and consistent over-representation of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors, heat shock factors (HSF) and ethylene response factors (ERF) was observed. This study reveals the complex transcriptomic responses regulating the perception and signaling of multiple abiotic stresses in barley.
Controlled turnover of proteins as mediated by the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) is an important element in plant defense against environmental and pathogen stresses. E3 ligases play a central role in subjecting proteins to hydrolysis by the UPS. Recently, it has been demonstrated that a specific class of E3 ligases termed the U-box ligases are directly associated with the defense mechanisms against abiotic and biotic stresses in several plants. However, no studies on U-box E3 ligases have been performed in one of the important staple crops, barley. In this study, we identified 67 putative U-box E3 ligases from the barley genome and expressed sequence tags (ESTs). Similar to Arabidopsis and rice U-box E3 ligases, most of barley U-box E3 ligases possess evolutionary well-conserved domain organizations. Based on the domain compositions and arrangements, the barley U-box proteins were classified into eight different classes. Along with this new classification, we refined the previously reported classifications of U-box E3 ligase genes in Arabidopsis and rice. Furthermore, we investigated the expression profile of 67 U-box E3 ligase genes in response to drought stress and pathogen infection. We observed that many U-box E3 ligase genes were specifically up-and-down regulated by drought stress or by fungal infection, implying their possible roles of some U-box E3 ligase genes in the stress responses. This study reports the classification of U-box E3 ligases in barley and their expression profiles against drought stress and pathogen infection. Therefore, the classification and expression profiling of barley U-box genes can be used as a platform to functionally define the stress-related E3 ligases in barley.
Seed storage proteins must be hydrolyzed by proteases to deliver the amino acids essential for embryo growth and development. Several groups of proteases involved in this process have been identified in both the monocot and the dicot species. This review focuses on the implication of proteases during germination in two cereal species, barley and wheat, where proteolytic control during the germination process has considerable economic importance. Formerly, the participation of proteases during grain germination was inferred from reports of proteolytic activities, the expression of individual genes, or the presence of individual proteins and showed a prominent role for papain-like and legumain-like cysteine proteases and for serine carboxypeptidases. Nowadays, the development of new technologies and the release of the genomic sequences of wheat and barley have permitted the application of genome-scale approaches, such as those used in functional genomics and proteomics. Using these approaches, the repertoire of proteases known to be involved in germination has increased and includes members of distinct protease families. The development of novel techniques based on shotgun proteomics, activity-based protein profiling, and comparative and structural genomics will help to achieve a general view of the proteolytic process during germination.
Despite conservation of the process of meiosis, recombination landscapes vary between species, with large genome grasses such as barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) exhibiting a pattern of recombination that is very heavily skewed to the ends of chromosomes. We have been using a collection of semi-sterile desynaptic meiotic mutant lines to help elucidate how recombination is controlled in barley and the role of the corresponding wild-type (WT) meiotic genes within this process. Here we applied a combination of genetic segregation analysis, cytogenetics, and immunocytology to genetically map and characterize the meiotic mutant desynaptic5 (des5). We identified an exonic insertion in the positional candidate ortholog of Disrupted Meiotic cDNA 1 (HvDMC1) on chromosome 5H of des5. des5 exhibits a severe meiotic phenotype with disturbed synapsis, reduced crossovers, and chromosome mis-segregation. The meiotic phenotype and reduced fertility of des5 is similarly observed in Hvdmc1RNAi transgenic plants and HvDMC1p:GusPlus reporter lines show DMC1 expression specifically in the developing inflorescence. The des5 mutation maintains the reading frame of the gene and exhibits semi-dominance with respect to recombination in the heterozygote indicating the value of non-knockout mutations for dissection of the control of recombination in the early stages of meiosis.
The beneficial effects of silicon (Si) have been shown on plants using reduction-based strategy for iron (Fe) acquisition. Here we investigated the influence of Si on Fe deficiency stress alleviation in barley (
Chloroplasts fuel plant development and growth by converting solar energy into chemical energy. They mature from proplastids through the concerted action of genes in both the organellar and the nuclear genome. Defects in such genes impair chloroplast development and may lead to pigment-deficient seedlings or seedlings with variegated leaves. Such mutants are instrumental as tools for dissecting genetic factors underlying the mechanisms involved in chloroplast biogenesis. Characterization of the green-white variegated
Plant synthetic biology and cereal engineering depend on the controlled expression of transgenes of interest. Most engineering in plant species to date has relied heavily on the use of a few, well-established constitutive promoters to achieve high levels of expression; however, the levels of transgene expression can also be influenced by the use of codon optimization, intron-mediated enhancement and varying terminator sequences. Most of these alternative approaches for regulating transgene expression have only been tested in small-scale experiments, typically testing a single gene of interest. It is therefore difficult to interpret the relative importance of these approaches and to design engineering strategies that are likely to succeed in different plant species, particularly if engineering multigenic traits where the expression of each transgene needs to be precisely regulated. Here, we present data on the characterization of 46 promoters and 10 terminators in Medicago truncatula, Lotus japonicus, Nicotiana benthamiana and Hordeum vulgare, as well as the effects of codon optimization and intron-mediated enhancement on the expression of two transgenes in H. vulgare. We have identified a core set of promoters and terminators of relevance to researchers engineering novel traits in plant roots. In addition, we have shown that combining codon optimization and intron-mediated enhancement increases transgene expression and protein levels in barley. Based on our study, we recommend a core set of promoters and terminators for broad use and also propose a general set of principles and guidelines for those engineering cereal species.
The literature on the role of calcium ion (Ca Calcium chloride (CaCl Calcium ion played an important role for mediating NaCl stress-induced phenolics accumulation in barley sprouts. It required both Ca
Phylogenetically related groups of species contain lineage-specific genes that exhibit no sequence similarity to any genes outside the lineage. We describe here that the Jekyll gene, required for sexual reproduction, exists in two much diverged allelic variants, Jek1 and Jek3. Despite low similarity, the Jek1 and Jek3 proteins share identical signal peptides, conserved cysteine positions and direct repeats. The Jek1/Jek3 sequences are located at the same chromosomal locus and inherited in a monogenic Mendelian fashion. Jek3 has a similar expression as Jek1 and complements the Jek1 function in Jek1-deficient plants. Jek1 and Jek3 allelic variants were almost equally distributed in a collection of 485 wild and domesticated barley accessions. All domesticated barleys harboring the Jek1 allele belong to single haplotype J1-H1 indicating a genetic bottleneck during domestication. Domesticated barleys harboring the Jek3 allele consisted of three haplotypes. Jekyll-like sequences were found only in species of the closely related tribes Bromeae and Triticeae but not in other Poaceae. Non-invasive magnetic resonance imaging revealed intrinsic grain structure in Triticeae and Bromeae, associated with the Jekyll function. The emergence of Jekyll suggests its role in the separation of the Bromeae and Triticeae lineages within the Poaceae and identifies the Jekyll genes as lineage-specific.
CENTRORADIALIS (CEN) is a key regulator of flowering time and inflorescence architecture in plants. Natural variation in the barley (
Much attention has been paid to understanding the traits associated with crop performance and the associated underlying physiological mechanisms, with less effort done towards combining different plant scales, levels of observation, or including hybrids of autogamous species. We aim to identify mechanisms at canopy, leaf and transcript levels contributing to crop performance under contrasting nitrogen supplies in three barley genotypes, two hybrids and one commercial line. High nitrogen fertilization did not affect photosynthetic capacity on a leaf area basis and lowered nitrogen partial factor productivity past a certain point, but increased leaf area and biomass accumulation, parameters that were closely tracked using various different high throughput remote sensing based phenotyping techniques. These aspects, together with a larger catabolism of leaf nitrogen compounds amenable to sink translocation, contributed to higher crop production. Better crop yield and growth in hybrids compared to the line was linked to a nitrogen-saving strategy in source leaves to the detriment of larger sink size, as indicated by the lower leaf nitrogen content and downregulation of nitrogen metabolism and aquaporin genes. While these changes did not reduce photosynthesis capacity on an area basis, they were related with better nitrogen use in the hybrids compared with the line.
Multigene families of CKX genes encode cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase proteins (CKX), which regulate cytokinin content in organs of developing plants. It has already been documented that some of them play important roles in plant productivity. The presented research is the first step of comprehensive characterization of the bread wheat TaCKX gene family with the goal to select genes determining yield-related traits. The specificity of expression patterns of fifteen formerly annotated members of the TaCKX family was tested in different organs during wheat development. Based on this, the genes were assigned to four groups: TaCKX10, TaCKX5 and TaCKX4, highly specific to leaves; TaCKX3, TaCKX6 and TaCKX11, expressed in various levels through all the organs tested; TaCKX1, TaCKX2.3, TaCKX2.2, TaCKX2.1, TaCKX2.4 and TaCKX2.5 specific to developing spikes and inflorescences; TaCKX9, TaCKX8 and TaCKX7, highly specific to roots. Amplification products of tested genes were mapped to the chromosomes of the A, B or D genome using T. aestivum Ensembl Plants. Based on analysis of TaCKX transcripts as well as encoded amino acids in T. aestivum and Hordeum vulgare the number of CKX genes in wheat was limited to 11 and new numbering of selected TaCKX genes was proposed. Moreover, we found that there were developmental differences in expression of TaCKX in the first and the second spike and expression of some of the genes was daily time dependent. A very high and significant correlation was found between expression levels of TaCKX7 and TaCKX9, genes specific to seedling roots, TaCKX1, TaCKX2.1 and TaCKX2.2, specific to developing spikes, and the group of TaCKX3, 4, 5, 6, 10 and 11, highly expressed in leaves and other organs. The genes also co-operated among organs and were included in two groups representing younger or maturating stages of developing plants. The first group was represented by seedling roots, leaves from 4-week old plants, inflorescences and 0 DAP spikes; the second by developing spikes, 0 DAP, 7 DAP and 14 DAP. The key genes which might determine yield-related traits are indicated and their possible roles in breeding strategies are discussed.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) produces five leucine-derived hydroxynitrile glucosides, potentially involved in alleviating pathogen and environmental stresses. These compounds include the cyanogenic glucoside epiheterodendrin. The biosynthetic genes are clustered. Total hydroxynitrile glucoside contents were previously shown to vary from zero to more than 10,000 nmoles g
Root growth angle (RGA) in response to gravity controlled by auxin is a pertinent target trait for obtainment of higher yield in cereals. But molecular basis of this root architecture trait remain obscure in wheat and barley. We selected four cultivars two each for wheat and barley to unveil the molecular genetic mechanism of Deeper Rooting 1-like gene which controls RGA in rice leading to higher yield under drought imposition. Morphological analyses revealed a deeper and vertically oriented root growth in "NARC 2009" variety of wheat than "Galaxy" and two other barley cultivars "Scarlet" and "ISR42-8". Three new homoeologs designated as TaANDRO1-like, TaBNDRO1-like and TaDNDRO1-like corresponding to A, B and D genomes of wheat could be isolated from "NARC 2009". Due to frameshift and intronization/exonization events the gene structures of these paralogs exhibit variations in size. DRO1-like genes with five distinct domains prevail in diverse plant phyla from mosses to angiosperms but in lower plants their differentiation from LAZY, NGR and TAC1 (root and shoot angle genes) is enigmatic. Instead of IGT as denominator motif of this family, a new C-terminus motif WxxTD in the V-domain is proposed as family specific motif. The EAR-like motif IVLEM at the C-terminus of the TaADRO1-like and TaDDRO1-like that diverged to KLHTLIPNK in TaBDRO1-like and HvDRO1-like is the hallmark of these proteins. Split-YFP and yeast two hybrid assays complemented the interaction of TaDRO1-like with TOPLESS-a repressor of auxin regulated root promoting genes in plants-through IVLEM/KLHTLIPNK motif. Quantitative RT-PCR revealed abundance of DRO1-like RNA in root tips and spikelets while transcript signals were barely detectable in shoot and leaf tissues. Interestingly, wheat exhibited stronger expression of TaBDRO1-like than barley (HvDRO1-like), but TaBDRO1-like was the least expressing among three paralogs. The underlying cause of this expression divergence seems to be the presence of AuxRE motif TGTCTC and core TGTC with a coupling AuxRE-like motif ATTTTCTT proximal to the transcriptional start site in TaBDRO1-like and HvDRO1-like promoters. This is evident from binding of ARF1 to TGTCTC and TGTC motifs of TaBDRO1-like as revealed by yeast one-hybrid assay. Thus, evolution of DRO1-like wheat homoeologs might incorporate the C-terminus mutations as well as gain and loss of AuxREs and other cis-regulatory elements during expression divergence. Since root architecture is an important target trait for wheat crop improvement, therefore DRO1-like genes have potential applications in plant breeding for enhancement of plant productivity by the use of modern genome editing approaches.
Recently, long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are shown to be implicating nuclear domain organization and gene regulation by mediating long-range chromatin interactions. Chromosome conformation capture (3C) is a method used to study such long-range interaction between two different loci in the 3D nuclear space. Through successive improvement in resolution and throughput, 3C, chromosome conformation capture on chip (4C), and chromosome conformation capture carbon copy (5C) to Hi-C methods were developed to study interactions between loci from one versus one scale to an unprecedented genome-wide resolution. In situ Hi-C is a variant of Hi-C in which proximity ligation is performed at the intact nuclei to improve the signal-to-noise ratio and throughput of the experiment to provide useful genome-wide contact frequency matrix/maps. The contact frequency maps obtained could be used for physical ordering of scaffolds in complex genome assembly projects, in deducing the nuclear domain organization in high resolution and in identifying specific long-range interactions between genomic regions of interest. In this chapter, we describe in detail a protocol for in situ Hi-C used on crops like barley, wheat, rye, oat, and evening primrose.
In winter barley plants, vernalization and photoperiod cues have to be integrated to promote flowering. Plant development and expression of different flowering promoter (HvVRN1, HvCO2, PPD-H1, HvFT1, HvFT3) and repressor (HvVRN2, HvCO9 and HvOS2) genes were evaluated in two winter barley varieties under: (1) natural increasing photoperiod, without vernalization, and (2) under short day conditions in three insufficient vernalization treatments. These challenging conditions were chosen to capture non-optimal and natural responses, representative of those experienced in the Mediterranean area. In absence of vernalization and under increasing photoperiods, HvVRN2 expression increased with day-length, mainly between 12 and 13 h photoperiods in our latitudes. The flowering promoter gene in short days, HvFT3, was only expressed after receiving induction of cold or plant age, which was associated with low transcript levels of HvVRN2 and HvOS2. Under the sub-optimal conditions here described, great differences in development were found between the two winter barley varieties used in the study. Delayed development in 'Barberousse' was associated with increased expression levels of HvOS2. Novel variation for HvCO9 and HvOS2 is reported and might explain such differences. The balance between the expression of flowering promoters and repressor genes regulates the promotion towards flowering or the maintenance of the vegetative state. HvOS2, an ortholog of FLC, appears as a strong candidate to mediate in the vernalization response of barley. Natural variation found would help to exploit the plasticity in development to obtain better-adapted varieties for current and future climate conditions.
Proteases play a main role in the mobilization of storage proteins during seed germination. Until today, there is little information about the involvement of serine proteases, particularly subtilases, in the germination of barley grains. The aims of the present work were to study the contribution of serine proteases to the total proteolytic activity induced during germination of barley grains and evaluate the specific involvement of subtilases in this process. Proteolytic activity assayed against azocasein in the presence of specific inhibitors, showed that serine proteases contributed between 10 and 20% of total activity along germination. Subtilase activity increased from day 1 after imbibition with a peak between days 4-5. Moreover, in vivo determination of subtilase activity in germinating grains revealed increasing activity along germination mainly localized in the seed endosperm and developing rootlets. Finally, the expression of 19 barley genes encoding subtilases was measured by real time PCR during germination. Three of the analyzed genes increased their expression along germination, five showed a transient induction, one was down-regulated, nine remained unchanged and one was not expressed. The present work demonstrates the involvement of subtilases in germination of barley grains and describes the positive association of eight subtilase genes to this process.
Hyperspectral imaging has proved its potential for evaluating complex plant-pathogen interactions. However, a closer link of the spectral signatures and genotypic characteristics remains elusive. Here, we show relation between gene expression profiles and specific wavebands from reflectance during three barley-powdery mildew interactions. Significant synergistic effects between the hyperspectral signal and the corresponding gene activities has been shown using the linear discriminant analysis (LDA). Combining the data sets of hyperspectral signatures and gene expression profiles allowed a more precise differentiation of the three investigated barley-Bgh interactions independent from the time after inoculation. This shows significant synergistic effects between the hyperspectral signal and the corresponding gene activities. To analyze this coherency between spectral reflectance and seven different gene expression profiles, relevant wavelength bands and reflectance intensities for each gene were computed using the Relief algorithm. Instancing, xylanase activity was indicated by relevant wavelengths around 710 nm, which are characterized by leaf and cell structures. HvRuBisCO activity underlines relevant wavebands in the green and red range, elucidating the coherency of RuBisCO to the photosynthesis apparatus and in the NIR range due to the influence of RuBisCO on barley leaf cell development. These findings provide the first insights to links between gene expression and spectral reflectance that can be used for an efficient non-invasive phenotyping of plant resistance and enables new insights into plant-pathogen interactions.
Uptake of water and nutrients by roots affects the ontogenesis of the whole plant. Nanoparticles, e.g. gold nanoparticles, have a broad range of applications in many fields which leads to the transfer of these materials into the environment. Thus, the understanding of their impact on the growth and development of the root system is an emerging issue. During our studies on the effect of positively charged gold nanoparticles on the barley roots, a hairless phenotype was found. We investigated whether this phenotype correlates with changes in symplasmic communication, which is an important factor that regulates, among others, differentiation of the rhizodermis into hair and non-hair cells. The results showed no restriction in symplasmic communication in the treated roots, in contrast to the control roots, in which the trichoblasts and atrichoblasts were symplasmically isolated during their differentiation. Moreover, differences concerning the root morphology, histology, ultrastructure and the cell wall composition were detected between the control and the treated roots. These findings suggest that the harmful effect of nanoparticles on plant growth may, among others, consist in disrupting the symplasmic communication/isolation, which leads to the development of a hairless root phenotype, thus limiting the functioning of the roots.
This study evaluated the effects of condensed barley distillers soluble (CBDS) on growth rate, rumen fermentation, plasma metabolite, and myofiber properties, and gene expression related to metabolism in the skeletal muscles of Japanese Black calves, compared with soybean meal and corn. Twenty-four calves were divided into four groups: fed 5% CBDS based on the hay dry matter weight (low CBDS) and fed soybean meal and corn at the same nutrition level (control); and fed 15% CBDS based on the hay dry matter weight (high CBDS) and fed soybean meal and corn at the same nutrition level (high soy). The daily gain was larger in the low (p = 0.08) and high (p < 0.05) CBDS groups compared with the control group. In the CBDS-fed groups, plasma β-hydroxybutyric acid concentrations were significantly higher at 6 months of age (p < 0.05), the percentage of type I myofibers was significantly lower and their diameters were significantly larger at 9 months of age (p < 0.05), and carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1b mRNA expression was significantly lower (p < 0.05) and citrate synthase mRNA expression tended to be lower (low; p = 0.06, high; p = 0.05) compared with control group. Thus, feeding CBDS promotes growth and leads to animals with more glycolytic and less oxidative muscle metabolism.
High isoelectric point α-amylase genes (Amy1) play major roles during cereal seed germination, and are associated with unacceptable high residual α-amylase activities in ripe wheat grains. However, in wheat and barley, due to extremely high homology of duplicated copies, and large and complex genome background, the knowledge on this multigene family is limited. In the present work, we identified a total of 41 Amy1 genes among 13 investigated grasses. By using genomic resources and experimental validation, the exact copy numbers and chromosomal locations in wheat and barley were determined. Phylogenetic and syntenic analyses revealed tandem gene duplication and chromosomal rearrangement leading to separation of Amy1 into two distinct loci, Amy1θ and Amy1λ. The divergence of Amy1λ from Amy1θ was driven by adaptive selection pressures performed on two amino acids, Arg Our study provides comprehensive analyses of the Amy1 multigene family, and defines the fixation of two spatially structural Amy1 loci in wheat and barley. Potential functional divergence between them is reflected by their sequence features and expressional patterns, and driven by gene duplication, chromosome rearrangement and natural selections during gene family evolution. Furthermore, the discrimination of differentially effective copies during seed germination and/or grain development will provide guidance to manipulation of α-amylase activity in wheat and barley breeding for better yield and processing properties.
In this study, we successfully expressed the active 1Ay subunit of Triticum urartu in barley by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation with a transformation efficiency of 19.9%. The results of SDS-PAGE revealed that the expressed proteins of 1Ay subunit were present at some grains of each of 46 original T
The members of the Triticeae tribe are characterised by the presence of orthologous and homoeologous gene copies regulating flavonoid biosynthesis. Among transcription factors constituting a regulatory MBW complex, the greatest contribution to the regulation of flavonoid biosynthetic pathway is invested by R2R3-Myb-type TFs. Differently expressed R2R3-Myb copies activate the synthesis of various classes of flavonoid compounds in different plant tissues. The aim of this research was the identification, comparison and analysis of full-length sequences of the duplicated R2R3-Myb Mpc1 (Myb protein c1) gene copies in barley and wheat genomes. The Mpc1 genes were identified in homoeologous group 4 and 7 chromosomes: a total of 3 copies in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and 8 copies in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) genomes. All Mpc1 genes have a similar two-exon structure, and almost all of them are transcriptionally active. The calculation of the divergence time revealed that first duplication between 4 and 7 chromosomes of the common ancestor of the Triticeae tribe occurred about 35-46 million years ago (MYA); the last duplication arised about 16-19 MYA before the divergence Triticum and Hordeum genera The connection between gene expression and the appearance of anthocyanin pigmentation was found for three genes from homoeologous group 4 chromosomes: TaMpc1-A2 (5AL) in wheat coleoptile, HvMpc1-H2 (4HL) in barley lemma and aleurone layer, and HvMpc1-H3 (4HL) in barley aleurone layer. TaMpc1-D4 (4DL) from the wheat genome showed a strong level of expression regardless of the colour of coleoptile or pericarp. It is assumed, that this gene regulates the biosynthesis of uncoloured flavonoids in analysed tissues. The regulatory R2R3-Myb genes involved in anthocyanin synthesis were identified and characterised in Triticeae tribe species. Genes designated HvMpc1-H2 and HvMpc1-H3 appeared to be the main factors underlying intraspecific variation of H. vulgare by lemma and aleurone colour. TaMpc1-A2 is the co-regulator of the Mpc1-1 genes in bread wheat genome controlling anthocyanin synthesis in coleoptile.
Anthocyanins are plants secondary metabolites important for plant adaptation to severe environments and potentially beneficial to human health. Purple colour of barley grain is caused by the pigments synthesized in pericarp. One or two genes determine the trait. One of them is Ant2 mapped on chromosome 2HL and is known to encode transcription factor (TF) with a bHLH domain. In plants, bHLH regulates anthocyanin biosynthesis together with TF harboring an R2R3-MYB domain. In wheat, the R2R3-MYBs responsible for purple colour of grain pericarp are encoded by the homoallelic series of the Pp-1 genes that were mapped on the short arms of chromosomes 7. In barley, in orthologous positions to wheat's Pp-1, the Ant1 gene determining red colour of leaf sheath has been mapped. In the current study, we tested whether Ant1 has pleiotropic effect not only on leaf sheath colour but also on pericarp pigmentation. А set of near isogenic lines (NILs) carrying different combinations of alleles at the Ant1 and Ant2 loci was created using markers-assisted backcrossing approach. The dominant alleles of both the Ant1 and Ant2 genes are required for anthocyanin accumulation in pericarp. A qRT-PCR analysis of the Ant genes in lemma and pericarp of the NILs revealed that some reciprocal interaction occurs between the genes. Expression of each of the two genes was up-regulated in purple-grained line with dominant alleles at the both loci. The lines carrying dominant allele either in the Ant1 or in the Ant2 locus were characterized by the decreased level of expression of the dominant gene and scant activity of the recessive one. The Ant1 and Ant2 expression was barely detected in uncolored line with recessive alleles at both loci. The anthocyanin biosynthesis structural genes were differently regulated: Chs, Chi, F3h, Dfr were transcribed in all lines independently on allelic state of the Ant1 and Ant2 genes, whereas F3'h and Ans were activated in presence on dominant alleles of the both regulatory genes. The R2R3-MYB-encoding counterpart (Ant1) of the regulatory Ant2 gene was determined for the first time. The dominant alleles of both of them are required for activation of anthocyanin synthesis in barley lemma and pericarp. The R2R3-MYB + bHLH complex activates the synthesis via affecting expression of the F3'h and Ans structural genes. In addition, positive regulatory loop between Ant1 and Ant2 was detected. Earlier the interaction between the anthocyanin biosynthesis regulatory genes has been revealed in dicot plant species only. Our data demonstrated that the regulatory mechanism is considered to be more common for plant kingdom than it has been reported so far.
Grain development, as a vital process in the crop's life cycle, is crucial for determining crop quality and yield. However, the molecular basis and regulatory network of barley grain development is not well understood at present. Here, we investigated the transcriptional dynamics of barley grain development through RNA sequencing at four developmental phases, including early prestorage phase (3 days post anthesis (DPA)), late prestorage or transition phase (8 DPA), early storage phase (13 DPA), and levels off stages (18 DPA). Transcriptome profiling found that pronounced shifts occurred in the abundance of transcripts involved in both primary and secondary metabolism during grain development. The transcripts' activity was decreased during maturation while the largest divergence was observed between the transitions from prestorage phase to storage phase, which coincided with the physiological changes. Furthermore, the transcription factors, hormone signal transduction-related as well as sugar-metabolism-related genes, were found to play a crucial role in barley grain development. Finally, 4771 RNA editing events were identified in these four development stages, and most of the RNA editing genes were preferentially expressed at the prestore stage rather than in the store stage, which was significantly enriched in "essential" genes and plant hormone signal transduction pathway. These results suggested that RNA editing might act as a 'regulator' to control grain development. This study systematically dissected the gene expression atlas of barley grain development through transcriptome analysis, which not only provided the potential targets for further functional studies, but also provided insights into the dynamics of gene regulation underlying grain development in barley and beyond.
UV-C irradiation is known to compromise germination of Blumeria graminis conidia and to reduce powdery mildew infestation. However, only scarce information is available on the effects of UV-C irradiation on B. graminis appressorium formation. Applying a Formvar® resin-based in vitro system allowed for analyzing B. graminis germination and appressorium formation in absence of plant defense. UV-C irradiation more strongly affected the differentiation of appressoria than conidial germination. In vivo and in vitro, a single dose of 100 J m
Inflammation in the central nervous system is closely associated with pathological neurodegenerative diseases as well as psychiatric disorders. Prolonged activation of microglia can produce many inflammatory mediators, which may result in pathological neurotoxic side effects. Interleukin (IL)-6 serves as a hallmark of the injured brain. Whole grains are known to contain many bioactive components. However, little information is available about anti-neuroinflammatory effects of grains in the CNS. This study aims to investigate the effect of Hordeum vulgare ethanol extract (HVE) on the suppression of IL-6 expression in BV2 microglia. Inhibitory effects of HVE on IL-6 expression were analyzed by immunoblot anaysis, immunofluoresce microscopic analysis, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and luciferase promoter reporter assay. HVE inhibited TNFα-induced phosphorylation of IKKα/β, IκB, and p65/RelA NF-κB. TNFα-induced IL-6 mRNA expression and promoter activity were reduced by HVE. Point mutation of NF-κB-binding site within the IL-6 gene promoter abolished TNFα-induced reporter activity, whereas exogenous expression of p65 NF-κB enhanced IL-6 promoter activity. NF-κB-binding site within the IL-6 promoter region is a HVE target element involved in the inhibition of TNFα-induced IL-6 gene transcription. HVE inhibits TNFα-induced IL-6 expression via suppression of NF-κB signaling in BV2 microglial cells.
The high-osmolarity glycerol (HOG) signaling pathway regulates the adaptation of fungi to environmental stressors. The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MAPKK) PBS2 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae serves as a scaffold protein in the HOG pathway. We characterized the pgpbs gene of Pyrenophora graminea, which encodes a MAPKK that is 56% orthologous to PBS2 of S. cerevisiae. A cloning technique based on homology was applied to amplify the pgpbs gene. Specific silent mutations then were generated in pgpbs. We evaluated the potential roles of PGPBS in the osmotic response, vegetative differentiation, cell wall integrity, drug resistance, and pathogenicity. Our findings indicated that the pgpbs coding region comprises 2075 base pairs and encodes a protein of 676 amino acids. Mutants deficient in pgpbs expression had significant reductions in vegetative growth and were sensitive to calcofluor white (CFW), an inhibitor of cell wall synthesis. Mutants also lost pathogenicity and were sensitive to an osmotic stress-inducing medium containing NaCl and sorbitol. Moreover, mutants had increased resistance to the dicarboximide fungicide iprodione and the triazole fungicide tebuconazole. These findings suggest that pgpbs is involved in the osmotic and ionic stress responses, vegetative differentiation, cell wall integrity, virulence, and tolerance to iprodione and tebuconazole. We expect that our findings will help elucidate the pathogenesis of barley leaf stripe and will inform strategies for breeding resistance to this disease.
The Polyploid Gene Assembler (PGA), developed and tested in this study, represents a new strategy to perform gene-space assembly from complex genomes using low coverage DNA sequencing. The pipeline integrates reference-assisted loci and de novo assembly strategies to construct high-quality sequences focused on gene content. Pipeline validation was conducted with wheat (Triticum aestivum), a hexaploid species, using barley (Hordeum vulgare) as reference, that resulted in the identification of more than 90% of genes and several new genes. Moreover, PGA was used to assemble gene content in Saccharum spontaneum species, a parental lineage for hybrid sugarcane cultivars. Saccharum spontaneum gene sequence obtained was used to reference-guided transcriptome analysis of six different tissues. A total of 39,234 genes were identified, 60.4% clustered into known grass gene families. Thirty-seven gene families were expanded when compared with other grasses, three of them highlighted by the number of gene copies potentially involved in initial development and stress response. In addition, 3,108 promoters (many showing tissue specificity) were identified in this work. In summary, PGA can reconstruct high-quality gene sequences from polyploid genomes, as shown for wheat and S. spontaneum species, and it is more efficient than conventional genome assemblers using low coverage DNA sequencing.
Development of crop cultivars with high low nitrogen (LN) tolerance or nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) is imperative for sustainable agriculture development. Tibetan wild barley is rich in genetic diversity and may provide elite genes for LN tolerance improvement. Little has been known about transcriptional responses of the wild barley to chronic LN stress. In this study, transcriptomic profiling of two Tibetan wild barley genotypes, LN- tolerant XZ149 and LN-sensitive XZ56 has been conducted using RNA-Seq to reveal the genotypic difference in response to chronic LN stress. A total of 520 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the two genotypes at 12 d after LN stress, and these DEGs could be mainly mapped to 49 metabolism pathways. Chronic LN stress lead to genotype-dependent responses, and the responsive pattern in favor of root growth and stress tolerance may be the possible mechanisms of the higher chronic LN tolerance in XZ149. There was a distinct difference in transcriptional profiling between the two wild barley genotypes in response to chronic LN stress. The identified new candidate genes related to LN tolerance may cast a light on the development of cultivars with LN tolerance.
As a significant component of monocot cell walls, (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan has conclusively been shown to be synthesized by the cellulose synthase-like F6 protein. In this study, we investigated the synthetic activity of other members of the barley (
Ramularia leaf spot disease (RLS), caused by the ascomycete fungus Ramularia collo-cygni, has emerged as a major economic disease of barley. No substantial resistance has been identified, so far, among barley genotypes and, based on the epidemiology of the disease, a quantitative genetic determinacy of RLS has been suggested. The relative contributions of barley and R. collo-cygni genetics to disease infection and epidemiology are practically unknown. Here, we present an integrated genome-wide analysis of host and pathogen transcriptome landscapes identified in a sensitive barley cultivar following infection by an aggressive R. collo-cygni isolate. We compared transcriptional responses in the infected and noninfected leaf samples in order to identify which molecular events are associated with RLS symptom development. We found a large proportion of R. collo-cygni genes to be expressed in planta and that many were also closely associated with the infection stage. The transition from surface to apoplastic colonization was associated with downregulation of cell wall-degrading genes and upregulation of nutrient uptake and resistance to oxidative stresses. Interestingly, the production of secondary metabolites was dynamically regulated within the fungus, indicating that R. collo-cygni produces a diverse panel of toxic compounds according to the infection stage. A defense response against R. collo-cygni was identified in barley at the early, asymptomatic infection and colonization stages. We found activation of ethylene signaling, jasmonic acid signaling, and phenylpropanoid and flavonoid pathways to be highly induced, indicative of a classical response to necrotrophic pathogens. Disease development was found to be associated with gene expression patterns similar to those found at the onset of leaf senescence, when nutrients, possibly, are used by the infecting fungus. These analyses, combining both barley and R. collo-cygni transcript profiles, demonstrate the activation of complex transcriptional programs in both organisms.
Tibetan hulless barley is widely grown in the extreme environmental conditions of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau which is characterized by cold, high salinity, and drought. Osmotic stress always occurs simultaneously with drought and its tolerance is a vital part of drought tolerance. The diversity of metabolites leading to osmotic stress tolerance was characterized using widely-targeted metabolomics in tolerant (XL) and sensitive (D) accessions submitted to polyethylene glycol. XL regulated a more diverse set of metabolites than D, which may promote the establishment of a robust system to cope with the stress in XL. Compounds belonging to the group of flavonoids, amino acids, and glycerophospholipids constitute the core metabolome responsive to the stress, despite the tolerance levels. Moreover, 8 h appeared to be a critical time point for stress endurance involving a high accumulation of key metabolites from the class of nucleotide and its derivative which provide the ultimate energy source for the synthesis of functional carbohydrates, lipids, peptides, and secondary metabolites in XL. This intrinsic metabolic adjustment helped XL to efficiently alleviate the stress at the later stages. A total of 22 diverse compounds were constantly and exclusively regulated in XL, representing novel stress tolerance biomarkers which may help improving stress tolerance, especially drought, in hulless barley.
Anthocyanin compounds playing multiple biological functions can be synthesized in different parts of barley ( Four copies of the
The pine wood nematode Bursaphelenchus xylophilus is a disastrous pathogen of pine forests in East Asia and Europe. Despite its decimating effect on pine forests, efficient and environmentally friendly methods available to control the pine wood nematode (PWN) are limited. The most abundant protein in nematode sperm, major sperm proteins (MSPs) have only been discovered in nematodes. In this study, phylogenetic analysis showed that BxMSP10 was highly conserved in the nematode and had a closer phylogenetic relationship with free-living nematodes than with plant-parasitic nematode species. BxMSP10 was specifically expressed in the seminal vesicle of male adults. dsRNA of BxMSP10 significantly decreased reproduction, egg hatching and population maintenance in B. xylophilus. These results indicated that BxMSP10 was a potential candidate for application in the control of B. xylophilus.
Chloroplasts deficient in the major chloroplast nucleoid-associated protein WHIRLY1 have an enhanced ratio of LHCs to reaction centers, indicating that WHIRLY1 is required for a coordinate assembly of the photosynthetic apparatus during chloroplast development. Chloroplast development was found to be delayed in barley plants with an RNAi-mediated knockdown of WHIRLY1 encoding a major nucleoid-associated protein of chloroplasts. The plastids of WHIRLY1 deficient plants had a reduced ribosome content. Accordingly, plastid-encoded proteins of the photosynthetic apparatus showed delayed accumulation during chloroplast development coinciding with a delayed increase in photosystem II efficiency measured by chlorophyll fluorescence. In contrast, light harvesting complex proteins being encoded in the nucleus had a high abundance as in the wild type. The unbalanced assembly of the proteins of the photosynthetic apparatus in WHIRLY1-deficient plants coincided with the enhanced contents of chlorophyll b and xanthophylls. The lack of coordination was most obvious at the early stages of development. Overaccumulation of LHC proteins in comparison to reaction center proteins at the early stages of chloroplast development did not correlate with enhanced expression levels of the corresponding genes in the nucleus. This work revealed that WHIRLY1 does not influence LHC abundance at the transcriptional level. Rather, WHIRLY1 in association with nucleoids might play a structural role for both the assembly of ribosomes and the complexes of the photosynthetic apparatus.
It has become clear in recent years that many genes in a given species may not be found in a single genotype thus using sequences from a single genotype as reference may not be adequate for various applications. In this study we constructed a pan-transcriptome for barley by de novo assembling 288 sets of RNA-seq data from 32 cultivated barley genotypes and 31 wild barley genotypes. The pan-transcriptome consists of 756,632 transcripts with an average N50 length of 1240 bp. Of these, 289,697 (38.2%) were not found in the genome of the international reference genotype Morex. The novel transcripts are enriched with genes associated with responses to different stresses and stimuli. At the pan-transcriptome level, genotypes of wild barley have a higher proportion of disease resistance genes than cultivated ones. We demonstrate that the use of the pan-transcriptome dramatically improved the efficiency in detecting variation in barley. Analysing the pan-transcriptome also found that, compared with those in other categories, disease resistance genes have gone through stronger selective pressures during domestication.
Expression of hordeins and β-amylase during barley grain development is important in determining malting quality parameters that are controlled by protein and malt enzyme levels. The relationship between protein and enzyme levels is confounding because, in general, protein and malt enzyme activity are positively correlated and the malting and brewing industries demand relatively low levels of protein and relatively high levels of enzymes. Separation of these traits is desirable because high protein levels are one of the primary causes of barley not meeting malt quality standards. Studies on barley grain development have not resulted in a consensus on the temporal accumulation of hordein and endosperm-specific β-amylase (Bmy1) and thus, it is unclear whether hordeins and Bmy1 are under control of the same temporal regulator (s). Therefore, temporal expression patterns of hordeins (B- [Hor2], C- [Hor1], D- [Hor3], and γ-hordein [Hor5]) were compared to Bmy1 throughout grain development (5 to 35 days after anthesis (DAA)). Transcript accumulation between hordeins and Bmy1 occurred simultaneously beginning during the pre-storage phase of grain development whereas the B1-hordein protein appeared two days before Bmy1 most likely due to variations in gene copy number. Interestingly, the largest increase in hordein and Bmy1 transcript levels occurred between 5 and 9 (Hor2, Hor2-B1, Hor2-B3, Hor3, Hor5-γ1, and Hor5-γ3) or 9 and 13 DAA (Hor1 and Bmy1). Additionally, ubiquitous β-amylase (Bmy2) has a novel expression pattern and was the predominant β-amylase present between 5 and 15 DAA whereas Bmy1 was the predominant β-amylase present between 17 and 35 DAA.
The plant NAC transcription factors depict one of the largest plant transcription factor families. They regulate a wide range of different developmental processes and most probably played an important role in the evolutionary diversification of plants. This makes comparative studies of the NAC transcription factor family between individual species and genera highly relevant and such studies have in recent years been greatly facilitated by the increasing number of fully sequenced complex plant genomes. This study combines the characterization of the NAC transcription factors in the recently sequenced genome of the cereal crop barley with expression analysis and a comprehensive phylogenetic characterization of the NAC transcription factors in other monocotyledonous plant species. Our results provide evidence for the emergence of a NAC transcription factor subclade that is exclusively expressed in the grains of the Poaceae family of grasses. These notably comprise a number of cereal crops other than barley, such as wheat, rice, maize or millet, which are all cultivated for their starchy edible grains. Apparently, the grain specific subclade emerged from a well described subgroup of NAC transcription factors associated with the senescence process. A promoter exchange subsequently resulted in grain specific expression. We propose to designate this transcription factor subclade Grain-NACs and we discuss their involvement in programmed cell death as well as their potential role in the evolution of the Poaceae grain, which doubtlessly is of central importance for human nutrition.
Microspore embryogenesis is a powerful biotechnological tool that is very useful in crop breeding for the rapid production of haploid and double-haploid embryos and plants. In this in vitro system, the haploid microspore is reprogrammed by the application of specific stress treatments. A high level of cell death after the stress is a major factor that greatly reduces embryogenesis yield at its initial stages. Autophagy is a degradation pathway that is present in all eukaryotes and plays key roles in a range of processes, including stress responses. Many proteases participate in autophagy and cell death; among them, cathepsins are the most abundant enzymes with a role in plant senescence and programmed cell death (PCD). Moreover, although plant genomes do not contain homologues of caspases, caspase 3-like activity (main executioner protease of animal cell death) has been detected in many plant PCD processes. Recent studies by our group in barley microspore cultures reported that the stress treatment required for inducing microspore embryogenesis (cold treatment), also produced reactive oxygen species (ROS) and cell death, concomitantly with the induction of autophagy, as well as cathepsin-like and caspase 3-like proteolytic activities. In the present study, we report new data on microspore embryogenesis of rapeseed that indicate, as in barley, activation of cell death and autophagy processes after the inductive stress. The results revealed that treatments modulating autophagy and proteases produced the same effect in the two plant systems, regardless of the stress applied, cold in barley or heat in rapeseed. Pharmacological treatments with small bioactive compounds that inhibit ROS, autophagy and specific cell death-proteases led to reduced cell death and an increased embryogenesis initiation rate in both, barley and rapeseed. Taken together, these findings open up new intervention pathways by modulating autophagy and proteases, which are very promising in terms of increasing the efficiency of in vitro microspore embryogenesis systems for biotechnological applications in crop breeding.
Real-time quantitative PCR has been widely used as the most reliable method to measure gene expression, due to its high accuracy and specificity. Wild barley ( Here we report the first systematic and comprehensive analysis of reference genes for quantitative real-time PCR standardization in wild barley. We selected 11 genes, including Our main contribution was to identify reference genes with suitable and stable expression in wild barley under various stress conditions and in different tissues to provide a useful resource for future studies. The results demonstrate the importance of transcriptome data as a useful resource for the screening of candidate reference genes and highlight the need for specific reference genes for specific conditions. Furthermore, these findings will provide valuable information for wild barley and relative species for future research.
Citrate synthase (CS) and NADP-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP-ICDH) have been considered as candidate enzymes to provide carbon skeletons for nitrogen assimilation, i.e., production of 2-oxoglutarate required by the glutamine synthetase/glutamate synthase cycle. The CS and NADP-ICDH cDNAs were encoded for polypeptides of 402 and 480 amino acids with an estimated molecular weight of 53.01 and 45 kDa and an isoelectric point of 9.08 and 5.98, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis of these proteins in wheat across kingdoms confirmed the close relationship with Aegilops tauschii and Hordeum vulgare. Further, their amino acid sequences were demonstrated to have some conserved motifs such as Mg
Alternative respiration pathway is involved in the response of highland barley to salt stress. The response of two barley seedlings to salt stress was investigated. Results showed that the growth of highland barley (Kunlun 14) and barley (Ganpi 6) had no obvious difference under low concentrations (50, 100 and 200 mM) of NaCl treatment. However, high concentrations of NaCl treatment (300 and 400 mM) severely affected the growth of two barley cultivars. Under 300 mM NaCl treatment, the fresh weight, relative water content (RWC), pigments and K
Cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1) plays a central role in nitrogen (N) metabolism. The importance of GS1 in N remobilization during reproductive growth has been reported in cereal species but attempts to improve N utilization efficiency (NUE) by overexpressing GS1 have yielded inconsistent results. Here, we demonstrate that transformation of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) plants using a cisgenic strategy to express an extra copy of native HvGS1-1 lead to increased HvGS1.1 expression and GS1 enzyme activity. GS1 overexpressing lines exhibited higher grain yields and NUE than wild-type plants when grown under three different N supplies and two levels of atmospheric CO
Phytocystatins (PhyCys) act as endogenous regulators of cysteine proteases (CysProt) involved in various physiological processes. Besides, PhyCys are involved in plant reactions to abiotic stresses like drought or darkness and have been used as effective molecules against different pests and pathogens. The barley PhyCys-CysProt system is considered a model of protease-inhibitor regulation of protein turnover. Thirteen barley cystatins (HvCPI-1 to HvCPI-13) have been previously identified and characterized. Among them HvCPI-2 has been shown to have a relevant role in plant responses to pathogens and pests, as well as in the plant response to drought. The present work explores the multiple role of this barley PhyCys in response to both, biotic and abiotic stresses, focusing on the impact of silencing this gene. HvIcy-2 silencing lines behave differentially against the phytopathogenic fungus Magnaporthe oryzae and a light deprivation treatment. The induced expression of HvIcy-2 by the fungal stress correlated to a higher susceptibility of silencing HvIcy-2 plants. In contrast, a reduction in the expression of HvIcy-2 and in the cathepsin-L and -B like activities in the silencing HvIcy-2 plants was not accompanied by apparent phenotypical differences with control plants in response to light deprivation. These results highlight the specificity of PhyCys in the responses to diverse external prompts as well as the complexity of the regulatory events leading to the response to a particular stress. The mechanism of regulation of these stress responses seems to be focused in maintaining the balance of CysProt and PhyCys levels, which is crucial for the modulation of physiological processes induced by biotic or abiotic stresses.
Members of the Early Salt Induced 3 (Esi3/RCI2/PMP3) gene family in plants have been shown to be induced in response to both biotic and abiotic stresses and to enhance stress tolerance in both transgenic plants and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Esi3 was first identified as a salt stress induced gene in the salt tolerant wild wheat grass, Lophopyrum elongatum, and subsequently homologous genes in many other species were found to be members of the gene family. These include Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa where they are referred to as Rare Cold Inducible 2 (RCI2), and Zea mays where they are referred to as Plasma Membrane Protein 3 (PMP3). This study characterizes the Esi3 family members in Triticum aestivum and explores the tissue specific expression patterns of the gene family members as well as their response to a variety of environmental stresses. The Esi3 gene family was found to have a total of 29 family members comprised of ten paralogous groups in the hexaploid T. aestivum. Each paralogous group contains three homeologous copies, one in each of the A, B and D genomes with the exception of Esi3-2 which is missing the B copy. The genes of the Esi3 gene family were also identified in four other monocot species, Aegilops tauschii, Hordeum vulgare, Secale cereale and Sorghum bicolor, and were confirmed or corrected for Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa and Zea mays, as well as the dicot Arabidopsis thaliana. Gene expression of the Esi3s was analyzed using tissue-specific, abiotic and biotic stress RNA-Seq 454 sequence libraries and Affymetrix microarray data for T. aestivum. Members of nearly all paralogous groups of the Esi3 genes in T. aestivum have altered gene expression in response to abiotic or biotic stress conditions. In addition, there are modest differences in gene expression among homeologous members of the gene family. This suggests that the Esi3 gene family plays an important role in the plants response to the stresses presented in this study. The Esi3-9 in T. aestivum has a unique N terminal extension placing it into Group III, a new group for the Esi3/RCI2/PMP3 gene family.
Vernalisation is the programmed physiological process in which prolonged cold-exposure provides competency to flower in plants; widely found in winter and biennial species, such as Arabidopsis, fruit trees, vegetables and wheat. This phenomenon is regulated by diverse genetic networks, and memory of vernalisation in a life cycle mainly depends on epigenetic mechanisms. However, less is known about how to count winter-dosage for flowering in plants. Here, we compare the vernalisation genetic framework between the dicots Arabidopsis, temperate grasses, wheat, barley and Brachypodium. We discuss vernalisation mechanisms involving crosstalk between phosphorylation and O-GlcNAcylation modification of key proteins, and epigenetic modifications of the key gene VRN1 in wheat. We also highlight the potential evolutionary origins of vernalisation in various species. Current progress toward understanding the regulation of vernalisation requirements provides insight that will inform the design of molecular breeding strategies for winter crops.
Assembly of the barley genome and extensive use of RNA-seq has resulted in an abundance of gene expression data and the recognition of wide-scale production of alternatively spliced transcripts. Here, we describe in detail a high-resolution reverse transcription-PCR based panel (HR RT-PCR) that confirms the accuracy of alternatively spliced transcripts from RNA-seq and allows quantification of changes in the proportion of splice isoforms between different experimental conditions, time points, tissues, genotypes, ecotypes, and treatments. By validating a selection of barley genes, use of the panel gives confidence or otherwise to the genome-wide global changes in alternatively spliced transcripts reported by RNA-seq. This simple assay can readily be applied to perform detailed transcript isoform analysis for any gene in any species.
Microarrays remain an extremely robust and cost-efficient technology for transcriptome analysis. A custom Agilent microarray has been designed from the predicted gene transcripts of the barley genome reference. Here, we describe total RNA extraction, fluorescent labeling, hybridization, and image analysis of barley arrays. Quality control measures are detailed, along with recommendations for downstream data analysis.
With the recent advances in sequencing technologies, many studies are generating lists of candidate genes associated with specific traits. The major bottleneck in functional genomics is the validation of gene function. This is achieved by analyzing the effect of either gene silencing or overexpression on a specific phenotypic or biochemical trait. This usually requires the generation of stable transgenic plants and this can take considerable time. Therefore any technique that expedites the validation of gene function is of particular benefit in cereals, including barley. One such technique is Virus-Induced Gene Silencing (VIGS), which evokes a natural antiviral defense mechanism in plants. VIGS can be used to downregulate gene expression in a transient manner, but long enough to determine its effects on a specific phenotype. It is particularly useful for screening candidate genes and selecting those with potential for disease control. VIGS based on Barley Stripe Mosaic Virus (BSMV) is a powerful and efficient tool for the analysis of gene function in cereals. Here we present a BSMV VIGS protocol for simple and robust gene silencing in barley and describe it to evaluate the role of the hormone receptor BRI1 (Brassinosteroid Insensitive 1) in barley leaf resistance to Fusarium infection.
To survive under water deficiency, plants alter gene expression patterns, make structural and physiological adjustments, and optimize the use of water. Rapid degradation and turnover of proteins is required for effective nutrient recycling. Here, we examined the transcriptional responses of the C1A cysteine protease family to drought in barley and found that four genes were up-regulated in stressed plants. Knock-down lines for the protease-encoding genes HvPap-1 and HvPap-19 showed unexpected changes in leaf cuticle thickness and stomatal pore area. The efficiency of photosystem II and the total amount of proteins were almost unaltered in stressed transgenic plants while both parameters decreased in stressed wild-type plants. Although the patterns of proteolytic activities in the knock-down lines did not change, the amino acid accumulation increased in response to drought, concomitant with a higher ABA content. Whilst jasmonic acid (JA) and JA-Ile concentrations increased in stressed leaves of the wild-type and the HvPap-1 knock-down lines, their levels were lower in the HvPap-19 knock-down lines, suggesting the involvement of a specific hormone interaction in the process. Our data indicate that the changes in leaf cuticle thickness and stomatal pore area had advantageous effects on leaf defense against fungal infection and mite feeding mediated by Magnaporthe oryzae and Tetranychus urticae, respectively.
We studied the genetics of nine malt quality traits using association genetics in a panel of North Dakota, ICARDA, and Ethiopian barley lines. Grain samples harvested from Bekoji in 2011 and 2012 were used. The mapping panel revealed strong population structure explained by inflorescence-type, geographic origin, and breeding history. North Dakota germplasm were superior in malt quality traits and they can be donors to improve malt quality properties. We identified 106 marker-trait associations (MTAs) for the nine traits, representing 81 genomic regions across all barley chromosomes. Chromosomes 3H, 5H, and 7H contained most of the MTAs (58.5%). Nearly 18.5% of these genomic regions contained two to three malt quality traits. Within ±250 kb of 81 genomic regions, we recovered 348 barley genes, with some potential impacting malt quality. These include invertase, β-fructofuranosidase, α-glucosidase, serine carboxypeptidase, and bidirectional sugar transporter SWEET14-like protein. Eighteen of these genes were also previously reported in the Hordeum Toolbox, and 17 of them highly expressed during the germination process. The results from this study invite further follow-up functional characterization experiments to relate the genes with individual malt quality traits with higher confidence. It also provides germplasm resources for malt barley improvement. © 2018 Society of Chemical Industry.
Barley malting quality depends on seed characteristics achieved during grain development and germination. One important parameter is protein accumulation in the mature seed, which may vary between cultivars. Here we conducted a protein pattern analysis in the range of pI 4-7 of mature grains from five Mexican barley cultivars, commonly used for malt and beer production. Reproducibly distinct protein spots, separated by 2D SDS PAGE, were identified by mass spectrometry and considered as potential markers for cultivars with distinct seed protein accumulation. The expression patterns of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) and protein disulfide isomerase (PDI1-1) were followed at transcript level during grain development for three independent growth cycles to establish whether differences between cultivars were reproducible. Quantitative determination of PDI1-1 protein levels by ELISA confirmed a reproducibly, distinctive accumulation and post-translational modifications between cultivars, which were independent of plant growth regimes. According to its impact on differential storage protein accumulation, we propose the PDI1-1 protein as potential biomarker for Mexican malting barley cultivars.
Plant starch is the main energy contributor to the human diet. Its biosynthesis is catalyzed and regulated by co-ordinated actions of several enzymes. Recently, a factor termed Protein Targeting to Starch 1 (PTST1) was identified as being required for correct granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS) localization and demonstrated to be crucial for amylose synthesis in Arabidopsis. However, the function of its homologous protein in storage tissues (e.g. endosperm) is unknown. We identified a PTST1 homolog in barley and it was found to contain a crucial coiled-coil domain and carbohydrate-binding module. We demonstrated the interaction between PTST1 and GBSS1 by fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) in barley endosperm. By tagging PTST1 with the fluorophore mCherry, we observed that it is localized in the stroma of barley endosperm amyloplasts. PTST1 overexpression in endosperm increased endogenous gbss1a gene expression and amylose content. Gbss1a and ptst1 mutants were generated using clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-related protein 9 (Cas9)-based targeted mutagenesis. Homozygous gbss1a mutants showed a waxy phenotype. Grains of ptst1 mutants did not accumulate any starch. These grains dried out during the desiccation stage and were unable to germinate, suggesting that PTST1 is essential for development of starchy endosperm and viable grains.
Small RNAs (sRNAs) play a key role in eukaryotic gene regulation, for example by gene silencing via RNA interference (RNAi). The biogenesis of sRNAs depends on proteins that are generally conserved in all eukaryotic lineages, yet some species that lack part or all the components of the mechanism exist. Here we explored the presence of the RNAi machinery and its expression as well as the occurrence of sRNA candidates and their putative endogenous as well as host targets in phytopathogenic powdery mildew fungi. We focused on the species Blumeria graminis, which occurs in various specialized forms (formae speciales) that each have a strictly limited host range. B. graminis f. sp. hordei and B. graminis f. sp. tritici, colonizing barley and wheat, respectively, have genomes that are characterized by extensive gene loss. Nonetheless, we find that the RNAi machinery appears to be largely complete and expressed during infection. sRNA sequencing data enabled the identification of putative sRNAs in both pathogens. While a considerable part of the sRNA candidates have predicted target sites in endogenous genes and transposable elements, a small proportion appears to have targets in planta, suggesting potential cross-kingdom RNA transfer between powdery mildew fungi and their respective plant hosts.
Hordeum species develop a central spikelet flanked by two lateral spikelets at each inflorescence node. In 'two-rowed' spikes, the central spikelet alone is fertile and sets grain, while in 'six-rowed' spikes, lateral spikelets can also produce grain. Induced loss-of-function alleles of any of five Six-rowed spike (VRS) genes (VRS1-5) cause complete to intermediate gains of lateral spikelet fertility. Current six-row cultivars contain natural defective vrs1 and vrs5 alleles. Little information is known about VRS mechanism(s). We used comparative developmental, expression and genetic analyses on single and double vrs mutants to learn more about how VRS genes control development and assess their agronomic potential. We show that all VRS genes repress fertility at carpel and awn emergence in developing lateral spikelets. VRS4, VRS3 and VRS5 work through VRS1 to suppress fertility, probably by inducing VRS1 expression. Pairing vrs3, vrs4 or vrs5 alleles increased lateral spikelet fertility, despite the presence of a functional VRS1 allele. The vrs3 allele caused loss of spikelet identity and determinacy, improved grain homogeneity and increased tillering in a vrs4 background, while with vrs5, decreased tiller number and increased grain weight. Interactions amongst VRS genes control spikelet infertility, determinacy and outgrowth, and novel routes to improving six-row grain.
Many aphids can adapt on plants of differential resistance levels, but molecular interactions underlying host plant utilization and shift of aphids are still not well understood. Here, we sequenced the transcriptome and compared global gene expression profiles of Sitobion avenae (Fabricius) feeding on wheat (i.e., the susceptible plant) and barley (i.e., the resistant plant). In total, 65,200 high-quality unigenes were identified from the merged transcriptomes, and 861 of them were differentially expressed. Relative to their expression on barley, all differentially expressed P450 (cytochrome 450 monooxygenase) genes (e.g., SavCYP6A13, SavCYP4C1, and SavCYP4G15) in S. avenae on wheat were upregulated, suggesting the significance of P450s in xenobiotic metabolism for this aphid on wheat. For S. avenae on barley, some genes encoding for ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters (e.g., ABCG1, ABCG4, ABCB7, and ABCA5) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs; e.g., UGT2B1 and UGT2C1) showed a dramatic increase in expression, suggesting that ABC transporters and UGTs could be critical for detoxification metabolism in S. avenae on barley. In addition, the expression for nearly all differentially expressed proteases was upregulated for S. avenae on barley, reflecting xenobiotic challenges facing S. avenae on resistant barley. Thus, various detoxification and other defense-related genes (e.g., proteases and oxidases) showed highly inducible transcript regulation, suggesting great adaptive potential for S. avenae on different plants. All the abovementioned genes will be prime candidates for further studies of molecular interactions underlying host plant use and specialization in this aphid. Our results provide insights into aphids' defenses against variable phytochemicals, and the molecular basis underlying aphid-plant interactions as well.
This study demonstrates the feasibility of developing co-segregating markers and identifying candidate genes for Fusarium crown rot resistance in barley based on the generation and exploitation of a near-isogenic line-derived large population. Fusarium crown rot (FCR) is a chronic and severe disease in cereals in semi-arid regions worldwide. Previous studies showed that FCR assessment could be affected by many factors including plant height, growth rate as well as drought stress. Thus, accurate assessment, which is essential for detailed mapping of any locus conferring FCR resistance, is difficult. Targeting one of the resistance loci reported earlier, we developed a near-isogenic line-derived population consisting of 1820 F9 lines. By analysing this population, the Qcrs.cpi-4H locus was mapped to an interval of 0.09 cM covering a physical distance of about 637 kb and 13 markers co-segregating with the targeted locus were developed. Candidate genes underlying the resistance locus were identified by analysing the expression and sequence variation of genes in the targeted interval. The accurate localization and the development of co-segregating markers should facilitate the incorporation of this large-effect QTL into breeding programmes as well as the cloning of gene(s) underlying the locus.
Fungal pathogens are a major constraint to global crop production; hence, plant genes encoding pathogen resistance are important tools for combating disease. A few resistance genes identified to date provide partial, durable resistance to multiple pathogens and the wheat (
Clonostachys rosea is a mycoparasitic fungus used for biological control of plant diseases. Its genome contains 31 genes putatively encoding for polyketide synthases (PKSs), 75% of which are arranged in biosynthetic gene clusters. Gene expression analysis during C. rosea interactions with the fungal plant pathogens Botrytis cinerea and Fusarium graminearum showed common and species-specific induction of PKS genes. Our data showed a culture media dependent correlation between PKS gene expression and degree of antagonism in C. rosea. The pks22 and pks29 genes were highly induced during fungal-fungal interactions but not during pigmentation, and gene deletion studies revealed that PKS29 was required for full antagonism against B. cinerea, and for biocontrol of fusarium foot rot on barley. Metabolite analysis revealed that Δpks29 strains has a 50% reduced production (P = 0.001) of an unknown polyketide with molecular formula C
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), which are longer than > 200 nt, perform various functions in a variety of important biological processes. The aim of this study is the investigation of relative expression levels of AK372815 putative pyridoxal reductase (PLR) gene and sense lncRNA AK370814 on four barley genotypes (Hasat, Beysehir 99, Konevi 98 and Tarm 92) in response to 150 mM salinity application during 3 days post-germination. Seeds were placed randomly in petri dishes containing (a) only H
Powdery mildew is a fungal disease that represents a ubiquitous threat to crop plants. Transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses were used to identify molecular and physiological changes in Tibetan hulless barley in response to powdery mildew. There were 3418 genes and 405 metabolites differentially expressed between the complete resistance cultivar G7 and the sensitive cultivar Z13. Weighted gene coexpression network analysis was carried out, and the differentially expressed genes were enriched in five and four major network modules in G7 and Z13, respectively. Further analyses showed that phytohormones, photosynthesis, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, and flavonoid biosynthesis pathways were altered during Qingke-Blumeria graminis (DC.) f.sp. hordei (Bgh) interaction. Comparative analyses showed a correspondence between gene expression and metabolite profiles, and the activated defenses resulted in changes of metabolites involved in plant defense response, such as phytohormones, lipids, flavone and flavonoids, phenolamides, and phenylpropanoids. This study enabled the identification of Bgh responsive genes and provided new insights into the dynamic physiological changes that occur in Qingke during response to powdery mildew. These findings greatly improve our understanding of the mechanisms of induced defense response in Qingke and will provide new clues for the development of resistant Tibetan hulless barley varieties.
FLOWERING LOCUS T2 (FT2) is the closest paralog of the FT1 flowering gene in the temperate grasses. Here we show that overexpression of FT2 in Brachypodium distachyon and barley results in precocious flowering and reduced spikelet number, while down-regulation by RNA interference results in delayed flowering and a reduced percentage of filled florets. Similarly, truncation mutations of FT2 homeologs in tetraploid wheat delayed flowering (2-4 d) and reduced fertility. The wheat ft2 mutants also showed a significant increase in the number of spikelets per spike, with a longer spike development period potentially contributing to the delayed heading time. In the wheat leaves, FT2 was expressed later than FT1, suggesting a relatively smaller role for FT2 in the initiation of the reproductive phase. FT2 transcripts were detected in the shoot apical meristem and increased during early spike development. Transversal sections of the developing spike showed the highest FT2 transcript levels in the distal part, where new spikelets are formed. Our results suggest that, in wheat, FT2 plays an important role in spike development and fertility and a limited role in the timing of the transition between the vegetative and reproductive shoot apical meristem.
The barley disease resistance (R) gene locus mildew locus A (Mla) provides isolate-specific resistance against the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis hordei and has been introgressed into modern cultivars from diverse germplasms, including the wild relative Hordeum spontaneum. Known Mla disease resistance specificities to B. graminis hordei appear to encode allelic variants of the R gene homolog 1 (RGH1) family of nucleotide-binding domain and leucine-rich repeat (NLR) proteins. Here, we sequenced and assembled the transcriptomes of 50 H. spontaneum accessions representing nine populations distributed throughout the Fertile Crescent. The assembled Mla transcripts exhibited rich sequence diversity, linked neither to geographic origin nor population structure, and could be grouped into two similar-sized subfamilies based on two major N-terminal coiled-coil (CC) signaling domains that are both capable of eliciting cell death. The presence of positively selected sites located mainly in the C-terminal leucine-rich repeats of both MLA subfamilies, together with the fact that both CC signaling domains mediate cell death, implies that the two subfamilies are actively maintained in the population. Unexpectedly, known MLA receptor variants that confer B. graminis hordei resistance belong exclusively to one subfamily. Thus, signaling domain divergence, potentially as adaptation to distinct pathogen populations, is an evolutionary signature of functional diversification of an immune receptor. Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). This is an open access article distributed under the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .
Environmental stresses can reduce crop yield and quality considerably. Plants protect cell metabolism in response to abiotic stresses at all stages of their life cycle, including seed production. As the production of vigorous seeds is important to both yield and crop growth, we analyzed causes of yield loss and reduced grain quality in staple crops exposed to environmental stresses such as drought and temperature extremes, with a focus on the remobilization of nutrients and water status during seed filling. Because water is one of the factors that limit seed development, seeds must have mechanisms that allow them to withstand water loss during seed maturation. In addition, analysis of the effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on transcription regulation and signaling should help to elucidate the regulation of seed dormancy and germination. In this review, we focus on nutrient remobilization, water mobility, plant hormones (gibberellins, abscisic acid, and ethylene), and ROS in sink and source organs and describe how rice, wheat, barley, soybean, and cowpea plants control seed maturation and germination under environmental stresses.
The effects of exogenous γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) on the endogenous GABA metabolism and antioxidant capacity of germinated hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) under NaCl stress were investigated. The results showed that all of the GABA treatments could alleviate the growth inhibition and oxidative damage by NaCl stress, with 0.5 mM being the most effective concentration. The GABA-treated barley seedlings exhibited a significantly higher content of endogenous GABA and other free amino acids, especially proline, which resulted from the changes in corresponding enzyme activity. The phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), cinnamic acid 4-hydroxylase (C4H), and 4-coumarate coenzyme A ligase (4CL) activities also increased in GABA-treated barley, which led to higher total phenolic content and antioxidant capacity than that of the control barley. These results indicate that GABA treatment may be an effective way to relieve salt stress as it induces the accumulation of endogenous GABA and proline and total phenolic content, thus enhancing the antioxidant capacity.
An understanding of the genes and mechanisms regulating environmental stress in crops is critical for boosting agricultural yield and safeguarding food security. Under adverse conditions, response pathways are activated for tolerance or resistance. In multiple species, the alternative oxidase (
Hulless barley generally grows in barren fields, where soil salinization is serious. However, only a few studies have been carried out investigating germinated hulless barley under salt stress. In the present study, the effect of NaCl stress on the physio-biochemical metabolism and antioxidant capacity of germinated hulless barley was investigated. NaCl stress inhibited seedling growth and caused oxidative damage, although it enhanced the accumulation of phenolic compounds and antioxidant capacity. The highest contents of total phenolic and main phenolic acids (vanillic acid, p-coumaric acid, ferulic acid and sinapic acid) were found with 60 mmol L NaCl stress inhibited seedlings growth and caused oxidative damage. Simultaneously, the antioxidant system of germinated hulless barley was enhanced. The results of the present study provide a theoretical basis with respect to the growth of hulless barley under salt stress. © 2018 Society of Chemical Industry.
While substantial progress has been made in understanding defense responses of cereals to insect herbivores, comparatively little is known about responses to feeding by spider mites. Nevertheless, several spider mite species, including the generalist
In this study, the function of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) on the phenolic compounds accumulation and antioxidant system enhancement in germinated hulless barley under NaCl stress was investigated. Results showed that exogenous GABA induced the accumulation of phenolic compounds. It was observed that the activities and gene expression of phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL), cinnamic acid 4-hydroxylase (C4H), 4-coumarate coenzyme A ligase (4CL), p-coumaric acid 3-hdroxylase (C3H), caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT) and ferulic acid 5-hydroxylase (F5H) which are involved in phenolics biosynthesis was up-regulated by NaCl stress plus GABA treatment. In addition, antioxidant enzymes activities were induced. However, these effects were suppressed by 3-mercaplopropionic acid (3-MP), an inhibitor of GABA synthesis. This inhibition could be alleviated partly by exogenous GABA. These results suggested that GABA was essential for mediating NaCl stress-induced phenolic compounds accumulation and the antioxidant system enhancement in germinated hulless barley.
The plant pathogen Agrobacterium tumefaciens infects plants and introduces the transferred-DNA (T-DNA) region of the Ti-plasmid into nuclear DNA of host plants to induce the formation of tumors (crown galls). The T-DNA region carries iaaM and iaaH genes for synthesis of the plant hormone auxin, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). It has been demonstrated that the iaaM gene encodes a tryptophan 2-monooxygenase which catalyzes the conversion of tryptophan to indole-3-acetamide (IAM), and the iaaH gene encodes an amidase for subsequent conversion of IAM to IAA. In this article, we demonstrate that A. tumefaciens enhances the production of both IAA and phenylacetic acid (PAA), another auxin which does not show polar transport characteristics, in the formation of crown galls. Using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectroscopy, we found that the endogenous levels of phenylacetamide (PAM) and PAA metabolites, as well as IAM and IAA metabolites, are remarkably increased in crown galls formed on the stem of tomato plants, implying that two distinct auxins are simultaneously synthesized via the IaaM-IaaH pathway. Moreover, we found that the induction of the iaaM gene dramatically elevated the levels of PAM, PAA and its metabolites, along with IAM, IAA and its metabolites, in Arabidopsis and barley. From these results, we conclude that A. tumefaciens enhances biosynthesis of two distinct auxins in the formation of crown galls.
Ubiquitous nature of prolamin proteins dubbed gluten from wheat and allied cereals imposes a major challenge in the treatment of celiac disease, an autoimmune disorder with no known treatment other than abstinence diet. Administration of hydrolytic glutenases as food supplement is an alternative to deliver the therapeutic agents directly to the small intestine, where sensitization of immune system and downstream reactions take place. The aim of the present research was to evaluate the capacity of wheat grain to express and store hydrolytic enzymes capable of gluten detoxification. For this purpose, wheat scutellar calli were biolistically transformed to generate plants expressing a combination of glutenase genes for prolamin detoxification. Digestion of prolamins with barley endoprotease B2 (EP-HvB2) combined with Flavobacterium meningosepticum prolyl endopeptidase (PE-FmPep) or Pyrococcus furiosus prolyl endopeptidase (PE-PfuPep) significantly reduced (up to 67%) the amount of the indigestible gluten peptides of all prolamin families tested. Seven of the 168 generated lines showed inheritance of transgene to the T
Caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT), the lignin biosynthesis gene modified in many brown-midrib high-digestibility mutants of maize and sorghum, was targeted for downregulation in the small grain temperate cereal, barley (Hordeum vulgare), to improve straw properties. Phylogenetic and expression analyses identified the barley COMT orthologue(s) expressed in stems, defining a larger gene family than in brachypodium or rice with three COMT genes expressed in lignifying tissues. RNAi significantly reduced stem COMT protein and enzyme activity, and modestly reduced stem lignin content while dramatically changing lignin structure. Lignin syringyl-to-guaiacyl ratio was reduced by ~50%, the 5-hydroxyguaiacyl (5-OH-G) unit incorporated into lignin at 10--15-fold higher levels than normal, and the amount of p-coumaric acid ester-linked to cell walls was reduced by ~50%. No brown-midrib phenotype was observed in any RNAi line despite significant COMT suppression and altered lignin. The novel COMT gene family structure in barley highlights the dynamic nature of grass genomes. Redundancy in barley COMTs may explain the absence of brown-midrib mutants in barley and wheat. The barley COMT RNAi lines nevertheless have the potential to be exploited for bioenergy applications and as animal feed.
Barley crop model was analyzed for early and late events during the dark-induced leaf senescence (DILS) as well as for deciphering critical time limit for reversal of the senescence process. Chlorophyll fluorescence vitality index Rfd was determined as the earliest parameter that correlated well with the cessation of photosynthesis prior to microautophagy symptoms, initiation of DNA degradation, and severalfold increase in the endonuclease
Arsenic (As) is a ubiquitous metalloid and toxic to plants. Chemical similarity between arsenate and phosphate (P) indicates possible antagonism between them in uptake and transportation. However, there is little study to reveal the interaction of As and P at transcriptional level. In this study RNA-sequencing was conducted on the two barley genotypes differing in As tolerance. A total of 2942 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were inclusively expressed in both genotypes under As (100 μM) and As (100 μM) + P (50 μM), and these DEGs included hormonal signaling, stress responsive, transport related and transcription factors. P addition in the culture solution inhibited the KEGG pathways related to ABC transporters, ether lipid metabolism, linolenic acid metabolism, endocytosis and RNA transport. ZDB160 had a higher expression of DEGs associated with hormone signaling, secondary metabolites and stress defense under P conditions compared to ZDB475, which might explain its tolerance mechanism to As under P condition. The abscisic acid, jasmonic acid and salicylic acid signaling pathways were also significantly regulated under As + P conditions, which may also account for genotypic differences. Finally we drew up a hypothetical model of high As + P stress tolerance mechanism in ZDB160. It may be concluded that ZDB160 achieves its tolerance to As under P by up-regulating P transporters, resulting in more P uptake and less As translocation. The identified candidate genes related to As + P tolerance may provide insights into understanding As tolerance under limited P conditions.
The large and highly repetitive genomes of the cultivated species Hordeum vulgare (barley), Triticum aestivum (wheat), and Secale cereale (rye) belonging to the Triticeae tribe of grasses appear to be particularly rich in gene-like sequences including partial duplicates. Most of them have been classified as putative pseudogenes. In this study we employ transient and stable gene silencing- and over-expression systems in barley to study the function of HvARM1 (for H. vulgare Armadillo 1), a partial gene duplicate of the U-box/armadillo-repeat E3 ligase HvPUB15 (for H. vulgare Plant U-Box 15). The partial ARM1 gene is derived from a gene-duplication event in a common ancestor of the Triticeae and contributes to quantitative host as well as nonhost resistance to the biotrophic powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis. In barley, allelic variants of HvARM1 but not of HvPUB15 are significantly associated with levels of powdery mildew infection. Both HvPUB15 and HvARM1 proteins interact in yeast and plant cells with the susceptibility-related, plastid-localized barley homologs of THF1 (for Thylakoid formation 1) and of ClpS1 (for Clp-protease adaptor S1) of Arabidopsis thaliana. A genome-wide scan for partial gene duplicates reveals further events in barley resulting in stress-regulated, potentially neo-functionalized, genes. The results suggest neo-functionalization of the partial gene copy HvARM1 increases resistance against powdery mildew infection. It further links plastid function with susceptibility to biotrophic pathogen attack. These findings shed new light on a novel mechanism to employ partial duplication of protein-protein interaction domains to facilitate the expansion of immune signaling networks.
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major stress factor limiting crop productivity in acid soil. Although there is great genotypic variation in tolerance to Al toxicity, the underlying molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we report that, in barley (
The positive effects of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) on the zinc (Zn) nutrition of a number of cereal species has been demonstrated, but for Hordeum vulgare (barley), this has been scarcely investigated. Zn is taken up by ZIP transporters in the roots, and several barley ZIP transporter genes are up-regulated under Zn deficient conditions. We grew a modern cultivar of barley (cv. Compass) at five different soil Zn concentrations ranging from no addition through to a toxic concentration. The plants were either inoculated with the AMF Rhizophagus irregularis, or mock-inoculated. At harvest, measurements of biomass, tissue Zn concentration, and expression of ZIP transporter genes were taken. Inoculation of barley with AMF resulted in improved grain and straw Zn concentrations, especially at low soil Zn concentrations, but did not increase the biomass of the plants. Of the five HvZIP genes tested that are up-regulated under low Zn conditions, one gene (HvZIP13) was significantly up-regulated by mycorrhizal colonisation at the lowest Zn treatment. Two other ZIP genes were down-regulated in mycorrhizal plants under low soil Zn. Inoculation with AMF has an effect on ZIP transporter genes in the roots of barley plants. Furthermore, AMF may be more useful for improving quality of barley grain in terms of Zn concentrations, rather than improving yield.
Root colonization of plant growth-promoting bacteria is a complex multistep process that is influenced by several factors. For example, during adherence to plant roots, bacteria have to endure reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by plants. In this study, we report that the global transcriptional regulator Fis is involved in the regulation of ROS-tolerance of Pseudomonas putida and thereby affects barley root colonization. Fis overexpression reduced both ROS-tolerance and adherence to barley roots and activated the transcription of the nuoA-N operon encoding NADH dehydrogenase I, the first enzyme of a membrane-bound electron-transport chain. The nuoA-N knockout mutation in the fis-overexpression background increased the ROS-tolerance and adherence to barley roots. We show that nuoA has two transcriptional start sites located 104 and 377 nucleotides upstream of the coding sequence, indicating the presence of two promoters. The DNase I footprint analysis revealed four Fis binding sites: Fis-nuo1 to Fis-nuo4, situated between these two promoters. Site-directed mutagenesis in a promoter-lacZ reporter and β-galactosidase assay further confirmed direct binding of Fis to Fis-nuo2 and probably to Fis-nuo4 but not to Fis-nuo1 and Fis-nuo3. Additionally, the results implied that Fis binding to Fis-nuo4 could affect transcription of the nuoA-N operon by modification of upstream DNA topology. Moreover, our transposon mutagenesis results indicated that Fis might be involved in the regulation of several alternative ROS detoxification processes utilizing NADH.
Barley is relatively sensitive to Aluminum (Al) toxicity among cereal crops, but shows a wide genotypic difference in Al tolerance. The well-known Al-tolerant mechanism in barley is related to Al exclusion mediated by a citrate transporter HvAACT1 (Al-activated citrate transporter 1). A 1-kb insertion in the promoter region of HvAACT1 gene results in a dramatic increase of its expression level, which only occurs in some Al-tolerant cultivars. However, Al-tolerant Tibetan wild barley accession XZ29 did not have the 1-kb insertion. We confirmed that the expression of HvAACT1 and secretion of citrate and other organic acids did not explain the difference in Al-tolerant wild barley XZ29 and Al-sensitive cultivated barley Golden Promise. To identify microRNAs (miRNAs) and their target genes responsive to Al stress in barley roots, eight small RNA libraries with two biological replicates from these two genotypes exposed to control and Al-treated conditions were constructed and submitted to deep sequencing. A total of 342 miRNAs were identified in Golden Promise and XZ29, with 296 miRNAs being commonly shared in the two genotypes. Target genes of these miRNAs were obtained through bioinformatics prediction or degradome identification. Comparative analysis detected 50 miRNAs responsive to Al stress, and some of them were found to be exclusively expressed in XZ29 and associated with Al tolerance. miRNAs exclusively expressing in the wild barley were identified and found to be associated with Al stress tolerance. The current results provide a model of describing the roles of some special miRNAs associated with Al tolerance in the Tibetan wild barley.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is more drought tolerant than other cereals, thus making it an excellent model for the study of the chemical, transcriptomic and physiological effects of water deficit. Roots are the first organ to sense soil water deficit. Therefore, we studied the response of barley seminal roots to different water potentials induced by polyethylene glycol (PEG) 8000. We investigated changes in anatomical parameters by histochemistry and microscopy, quantitative and qualitative changes in suberin composition by analytical chemistry, transcript changes by RNA-sequencing (RNA-Seq), and the radial water and solute movement of roots using a root pressure probe. In response to osmotic stress, genes in the suberin biosynthesis pathway were upregulated that correlated with increased suberin amounts in the endodermis and an overall reduction in hydraulic conductivity (Lp
The success of plant-pathogenic fungi mostly relies on their arsenal of virulence factors which are expressed and delivered into the host tissue during colonization. The biotrophic fungal pathogen Ustilago hordei causes covered smut disease on both barley and oat. In this study, we combined cytological, genomics and molecular biological methods to achieve a better understanding of the molecular interactions in the U. hordei-barley pathosystem. Microscopic analysis revealed that U. hordei densely colonizes barley leaves on penetration, in particular the vascular system. Transcriptome analysis of U. hordei at different stages of host infection revealed differential expression of the transcript levels of 273 effector gene candidates. Furthermore, U. hordei transcriptionally activates core effector genes which may suppress even non-host early defence responses. Based on expression profiles and novelty of sequences, knockout studies of 14 effector candidates were performed in U. hordei, which resulted in the identification of four virulence factors required for host colonization. Yeast two-hybrid screening identified potential barley targets for two of the effectors. Overall, this study provides a first systematic analysis of the effector repertoire of U. hordei and identifies four effectors (Uvi1-Uvi4) as virulence factors for the infection of barley.
The aleurone is a critical component of the cereal seed and is located at the periphery of the starchy endosperm. During germination, the aleurone is responsible for releasing hydrolytic enzymes that degrade cell wall polysaccharides and starch granules, which is a key requirement for barley malt production. Inter- and intra-species differences in aleurone layer number have been identified in the cereals but the significance of this variation during seed development and germination remains unclear. In this study, natural variation in mature aleurone features was examined in a panel of 33 Hordeum vulgare (barley) genotypes. Differences were identified in the number of aleurone cell layers, the transverse thickness of the aleurone and the proportion of aleurone relative to starchy endosperm. In addition, variation was identified in the activity of hydrolytic enzymes that are associated with germination. Notably, activity of the free fraction of β-amylase (BMY), but not the bound fraction, was increased at grain maturity in barley varieties possessing more aleurone. Laser capture microdissection (LCM) and transcriptional profiling confirmed that HvBMY1 is the most abundant BMY gene in developing grain and accumulates in the aleurone during early stages of grain fill. The results reveal a link between molecular pathways influencing early aleurone development and increased levels of free β-amylase enzyme, potentially highlighting the aleurone as a repository of free β-amylase at grain maturity.
The homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) transcription factor family plays vital roles in plant development and morphogenesis as well as responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. In barley, a recessive mutation in Vrs1 (HvHox1) changes two-rowed barley to six-rowed barley, which improves yield considerably. The Vrs1 gene encodes an HD-Zip subfamily I transcription factor. Phylogenetic analysis has shown that the rice HD-Zip I genes Oshox12 and Oshox14 are the closest homologues of Vrs1. Here, we show that Oshox12 and Oshox14 are ubiquitously expressed with higher levels in developing panicles. Trans-activation assays in yeast and rice protoplasts demonstrated that Oshox12 and Oshox14 can bind to a specific DNA sequence, AH1 (CAAT(A/T)ATTG), and activate reporter gene expression. Overexpression of Oshox12 and Oshox14 in rice resulted in reduced panicle length and a dwarf phenotype. In addition, Oshox14 overexpression lines showed a deficiency in panicle exsertion. Our findings suggest that Oshox12 and Oshox14 may be involved in the regulation of panicle development. This study provides a significant advancement in understanding the functions of HD-Zip transcription factors in rice.
The excess use of nitrogen fertilizers causes many problems, including higher costs of crop production, lower nitrogen use efficiency, and environmental damage. Crop breeding for low-nitrogen tolerance, especially molecular breeding, has become the major route to solving these issues. Therefore, in crops such as barley (
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) and rice (Oryza sativa) differ greatly in their salt tolerance, although both species belong to the Poaceae family. To understand the mechanisms in the difference of salt tolerance between the two species, the responses of ionome, metabolome and gene expression of Na and K transporters to the different salt treatments were analyzed using 4 barley and 4 rice genotypes differing in salt tolerance. In comparison with 4 rice genotypes, four barley genotypes showed better plant growth, lower shoot Na concentration and higher K concentration at the 9 day after salt treatments. There was a dramatic difference in absolute expression levels of SOS, HKT and NHX family genes between barley and rice, which might account for their difference in Na/K homeostasis and salt tolerance. Moreover, rice leaves accumulated excess Na under salt treatments, which caused serious damages to physiological metabolisms based on metabolomic analysis, but barley leaves had lower Na concentration and small changes in the most metabolites. These results provide useful insights into the molecular mechanism in the difference of salt tolerance between rice and barley.
Heading date (HD) of cereals is an important trait for adaptation to diverse environments and is critical for determining yield and quality and the number of genes and gene combinations that confer earliness in barley under short days is limited. In our study, a QTL for early flowering was identified from the cross between an Australian malting barley cultivar and a Chinese landrace. Four sets of near isogenic lines (NILs) were developed with a QTL located on chromosome 5H at the interval of 122.0-129.0 cM. Further experiments were conducted to investigate how this gene was regulated by photoperiod using the NILs with three sowing dates from autumn to summer. The NILs carrying the earliness allele were significantly earlier than the late genotype at all sowing dates. This gene was different from previously reported vernalisation genes that are located at a similar position as no vernalisation was required for all the NILs. The difference between this gene and Eam5 (HvPHYC) locus which also located between two co-segregated markers (3398516S5, 122.5 cM, and 4014046D5, 126.1 cM), is that with the existence of Ppd-H1 (Eam1), Eam5 has no effect on ear emergence under long days while the gene from TX9425 still reduced the time to ear emergency. The locus showed no pleiotropic effects on grain pasting properties and agronomic traits except for spike length and number of spikelets per spike, and thus can be effectively used in breeding programs. The array of early heading dates caused by interactions of Eam5 gene with other maturity genes provides an opportunity to better fine tune heading dates with production environments, which can be critical factor in barley breeding.
Strigolactones (SLs) represent a class of plant hormones that are involved in inhibiting shoot branching and in promoting abiotic stress responses. There is evidence that the biosynthetic pathways of SLs and abscisic acid (ABA) are functionally connected. However, little is known about the mechanisms underlying the interaction of SLs and ABA, and the relevance of this interaction for shoot architecture. Based on sequence homology, four genes (HvD27, HvMAX1, HvCCD7, and HvCCD8) involved in SL biosynthesis were identified in barley and functionally verified by complementation of Arabidopsis mutants or by virus-induced gene silencing. To investigate the influence of ABA on SLs, two transgenic lines accumulating ABA as a result of RNAi-mediated down-regulation of HvABA 8'-hydroxylase 1 and 3 were employed. LC-MS/MS analysis confirmed higher ABA levels in root and stem base tissues in these transgenic lines. Both lines showed enhanced tiller formation and lower concentrations of 5-deoxystrigol in root exudates, which was detected for the first time as a naturally occurring SL in barley. Lower expression levels of HvD27, HvMAX1, HvCCD7, and HvCCD8 indicated that ABA suppresses SL biosynthesis, leading to enhanced tiller formation in barley.
Limited supply of mineral nutrients often reduces plant growth and transpirational water flow while increasing the ratio of water-absorbing root to water-losing shoot surface. This could potentially lead to an imbalance between water uptake (too much) and water loss (too little). The aim of the present study was to test whether, as a countermeasure, the hydraulic properties (hydraulic conductivity, Lp) of roots decrease at organ and cell level and whether any decreases in Lp are accompanied by decreases in the gene expression level of aquaporins (AQPs) or increases in apoplastic barriers to radial water movement. Barley plants were grown hydroponically on complete nutrient solution, containing 2 mm K+ (100 %), or on low-K solution (0.05 mm K+; 2.5 %), and analysed when they were 15-18 d old. Transpiration, fresh weight, surface area, shoot water potential (ψ), K and Ca concentrations, root (exudation) and cortex cell Lp (cell pressure probe), root anatomy (cross-sections) and AQP gene expression (qPCR) were analysed. The surface area ratio of root to shoot increased significantly in response to low K. This was accompanied by a small decrease in the rate of water loss per unit shoot surface area, but a large (~50 %) and significant decrease in Lp at root and cortex cell levels. Aquaporin gene expression in roots did not change significantly, due to some considerable batch-to-batch variation in expression response, though HvPIP2;5 expression decreased on average by almost 50 %. Apoplastic barriers in the endodermis did not increase in response to low K. Barley plants that are exposed to low K adjust to an increased ratio of root (water uptake) to shoot (water loss) surface primarily through a decrease in root and cell Lp. Reduced gene expression of HvPIP2;5 may contribute to the decrease in Lp.
In this article a novel mechanism of retrograde signaling by chloroplasts during stress is described. This mechanism involves the DNA/RNA binding protein WHIRLY1 as a regulator of microRNA levels. By virtue of its dual localization in chloroplasts and the nucleus of the same cell, WHIRLY1 was proposed as an excellent candidate coordinator of chloroplast function and nuclear gene expression. Comparison of wild-type and transgenic plants with an RNAi-mediated knockdown of WHIRLY1 showed, that the transgenic plants were unable to cope with continuous high light conditions. They were impaired in production of several microRNAs mediating post-transcriptional responses during stress. The results support a central role of WHIRLY1 in retrograde signaling and also underpin a so far underestimated role of microRNAs in this process.
GLYCOGEN SYNTHASE KINASE3/Shaggy-like kinases (GSKs) represent a highly conserved group of proteins found in all eukaryotes. In plants they are encoded by multigene families and integrate signaling of brassinosteroids, auxin and abscisic acid in wide range of physiological and developmental processes with a strong impact on plant responses to environmental and biotic factors. Based on comprehensively studied structures of 10 Arabidopsis thaliana GSK genes and encoded proteins we report identification and phylogenetic reconstruction of 7 transcriptionally active GSK genes in barley. We re-evaluated annotation of the GSK genes in the current barley genome (Hv_IBSC_PGSB_v2) and provided data that a single gene annotated in the previous barley genome ensemble should be retained in the current one. The novel structure of another GSK, predicted in Hv_IBSC_PGSB_v2 to encode both GSK and amine oxidase domains, was proposed and experimentally confirmed based on the syntenic region in Brachypodium distachyon. The genes were assigned to 4 groups based on their encoded amino acid sequences and protein kinase domains. The analysis confirmed high level of conservation of functional protein domains and motifs among plant GSKs and the identified barley orthologs. Each of the seven identified HvGSK genes was expressed indicating semi-constitutive regulation in all tested organs and developmental stages. Regulation patterns of GSKs from the indicated groups showed a shift in organ-preferential expression in A. thaliana and barley illustrating diversification of biological roles of individual HvGSKs in different plant species.
Our previous studies showed that high salt tolerance in Tibetan wild barley accessions was associated with HvHKT1;1, a member of the high-affinity potassium transporter family. However, molecular mechanisms of HvHKT1;1 for salt tolerance and its roles in K+/Na+ homeostasis remain to be elucidated. Functional characterization of HvHKT1;1 was conducted in the present study. NaCl-induced transcripts of HvHKT1;1 were significantly higher in the roots of Tibetan wild barley XZ16 relative to other genotypes, being closely associated with its higher biomass and lower tissue Na+ content under salt stress. Heterologous expression of HvHKT1;1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (yeast) and Xenopus laevis oocytes showed that HvHKT1;1 had higher selectivity for Na+ over K+ and other monovalent cations. HvHKT1;1 was found to be localized at the cell plasma membrane of root stele and epidermis. Knock-down of HvHKT1;1 in barley led to higher Na+ accumulation in both roots and leaves, while overexpression of HvHKT1;1 in salt-sensitive Arabidopsis hkt1-4 and sos1-12 loss-of-function lines resulted in significantly less shoot and root Na+ accumulation. Additionally, microelectrode ion flux measurements and root elongation assay revealed that the transgenic Arabidopsis plants exhibited a remarkable capacity for regulation of Na+, K+, Ca2+ and H+ homeostasis under salt stress. These results indicate that HvHKT1;1 is critical in radial root Na+ transport, which eventually reduces shoot Na+ accumulation. Additionally, HvHKT1;1 may be indirectly involved in retention of K+ and Ca2+ in root cells, which also improves plant salt tolerance.
Root cortical senescence (RCS) is a poorly understood phenomenon with implications for adaptation to edaphic stress. It was hypothesized that RCS in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is (1) accelerated by exogenous ethylene exposure; (2) accompanied by differential expression of ethylene synthesis and signalling genes; and (3) associated with differential expression of programmed cell death (PCD) genes. Gene expression of root segments from four barley genotypes with and without RCS was evaluated using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The progression of RCS was manipulated with root zone ethylene and ethylene inhibitor applications. The results demonstrate that ethylene modulates RCS. Four genes related to ethylene synthesis and signalling were upregulated during RCS in optimal, low nitrogen and low phosphorus nutrient regimes. RCS was accelerated by root zone ethylene treatment, and this effect was reversed by an ethylene action inhibitor. Roots treated with exogenous ethylene had 35 and 46 % more cortical senescence compared with the control aeration treatment in seminal and nodal roots, respectively. RCS was correlated with expression of two genes related to programmed cell death (PCD). The development of RCS is similar to root cortical aerenchyma formation with respect to ethylene modulation of the PCD process.
In graminaceous plants, nicotianamine (NA) is an important component of metal acquisition. NA is synthesized from S-adenosyl-l-methionine (SAM) catalyzed by nicotianamine synthase (NAS). Here, eight Triticum monococcum NAS (TmNAS) genes were cloned and characterized. Amino acid sequence analysis showed that TmNAS genes had high sequence identity with those from Triticum aestivum, Zea mays, Oryza sativa and Hordeum vulgare. Phylogenetic analysis showed that NAS genes were classified into two distinct groups, e.g. group I and group II. Expression analysis demonstrated that two of the TmNAS genes in group II were highly expressed in shoot tissues, and the other six TmNAS genes in group I were expressed in root tissues. Further analysis indicated that root-specific TmNAS genes were up-regulated under conditions of Fe- or Zn-deficiency growth, while shoot-specific TmNAS genes were up-regulated under conditions of Fe- or Zn-sufficiency. These results help us understand the NAS genes in T. monococcum and provide novel genetic resources for improving Fe and Zn concentrations in common wheat.
Root size and architecture are important crop plant traits, as they determine access to water and soil nutrients. The plant hormone cytokinin is a negative regulator of root growth and branching. Here, we generated transgenic barley (
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is the fourth major cereal crop and shows high adaptive capabilities to diverse environments. Thus, it might represent a potential reservoir of novel genes to improve abiotic stress tolerance. In this study, a novel AP2/ERF transcription factor gene designated as HvSHN1 was isolated from barley. Protein sequence analysis showed that the HvSHN1 protein contained a nuclear localization signal and the conserved AP2/ERF domain. Phylogenetic analysis showed that HvSHN1 belongs to the group Va protein in the ERF subfamily which contains the Arabidopsis genes (SHN1, 2 and 3) and the wheat gene TdSHN1 with which it has 94.7% protein sequence identity. Expression profile analysis revealed that HvSHN1 is strongly induced by heat, cold, salt and drought. Transient expression using tobacco BY-2 protoplast coupled to confocal microscopy analysis revealed that HvSHN1 is exclusively targeted to the nucleus. Interestingly, when constitutively expressed in transgenic tobacco, HvSHN1 up-regulated stress responsive genes known to harbor GCC or DRE motif in their promoter regions. Therefore, HvSHN1 might represent a potential candidate for improvement of abiotic stress tolerance in economically important crops.
Understanding the interactions between mineral nutrition and disease is essential for crop management. Our previous studies with Arabidopsis thaliana demonstrated that potassium (K) deprivation induced the biosynthesis of jasmonic acid (JA) and increased the plant's resistance to herbivorous insects. Here, we addressed the question of how tissue K affects the development of fungal pathogens and whether sensitivity of the pathogens to JA could play a role for the K-disease relationship in barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Optic). We report that K-deprived barley plants showed increased leaf concentrations of JA and other oxylipins. Furthermore, a natural tip-to-base K-concentration gradient within leaves of K-sufficient plants was quantitatively mirrored by the transcript levels of JA-responsive genes. The local leaf tissue K concentrations affected the development of two economically important fungi in opposite ways, showing a positive correlation with powdery mildew (Blumeria graminis) and a negative correlation with leaf scald (Rhynchosporium commune) disease symptoms. B. graminis induced a JA response in the plant and was sensitive to methyl-JA treatment whereas R. commune initiated no JA response and was JA insensitive. Our study challenges the view that high K generally improves plant health and suggests that JA sensitivity of pathogens could be an important factor in determining the exact K-disease relationship.
Genome annotation is of key importance in many research questions. The identification of protein-coding genes is often based on transcriptome sequencing data, ab-initio or homology-based prediction. Recently, it was demonstrated that intron position conservation improves homology-based gene prediction, and that experimental data improves ab-initio gene prediction. Here, we present an extension of the gene prediction program GeMoMa that utilizes amino acid sequence conservation, intron position conservation and optionally RNA-seq data for homology-based gene prediction. We show on published benchmark data for plants, animals and fungi that GeMoMa performs better than the gene prediction programs BRAKER1, MAKER2, and CodingQuarry, and purely RNA-seq-based pipelines for transcript identification. In addition, we demonstrate that using multiple reference organisms may help to further improve the performance of GeMoMa. Finally, we apply GeMoMa to four nematode species and to the recently published barley reference genome indicating that current annotations of protein-coding genes may be refined using GeMoMa predictions. GeMoMa might be of great utility for annotating newly sequenced genomes but also for finding homologs of a specific gene or gene family. GeMoMa has been published under GNU GPL3 and is freely available at http://www.jstacs.de/index.php/GeMoMa .
Floret opening in barley is induced by the swelling of the lodicule, a trait under the control of the cleistogamy1 (cly1) gene. The product of cly1 is a member of the APETALA2 (AP2) transcription factor family, which inhibits lodicule development. A sequence polymorphism at the miR172 target site within cly1 has been associated with variation in lodicule development and hence with the cleistogamous phenotype. It was unclear whether miR172 actually functions in cly1 regulation and, if it does, which miR172 gene contributes to cleistogamy. It was also interesting to explore whether miR172-mediated cly1 regulation occurs at transcriptional level or at translational level. Deep sequencing of small RNA identified the miR172 sequences expressed in barley immature spikes. miR172 genes were confirmed by computational and expression analysis. miR172 and cly1 expression profiles were determined by in situ hybridization and quantitative expression analysis. Immunoblot analysis provided the CLY1 protein quantifications. Definitive evidence of the role of miR172 in cleistogamy was provided by a transposon Ds-induced mutant of Hv-miR172a. A small RNA analysis of the immature barley spike revealed three isomers, miR172a, b and c, of which miR172a was the most abundant. In situ hybridization analysis showed that miR172 and cly1 co-localize in the lodicule primordium, suggesting that these two molecules potentially interact with one another. Immunoblot analysis showed that the sequence polymorphism at the miR172 target site within cly1 reduced the abundance of the CLY1 protein, but not that of its transcript. In a Ds-induced mutant of Hv-miR172a, which generates no mature miR172a, the lodicules fail to grow, resulting in a very small lodicule. Direct evidence is presented to show that miR172a acts to reduce the abundance of the CLY1 protein, which enables open flowering in barley.
Powdery mildews are biotrophic pathogenic fungi infecting a number of economically important plants. The grass powdery mildew, Blumeria graminis, has become a model organism to study host specialization of obligate biotrophic fungal pathogens. We resolved the large-scale genomic architecture of B. graminis forma specialis hordei (Bgh) to explore the potential influence of its genome organization on the co-evolutionary process with its host plant, barley (Hordeum vulgare). The near-chromosome level assemblies of the Bgh reference isolate DH14 and one of the most diversified isolates, RACE1, enabled a comparative analysis of these haploid genomes, which are highly enriched with transposable elements (TEs). We found largely retained genome synteny and gene repertoires, yet detected copy number variation (CNV) of secretion signal peptide-containing protein-coding genes (SPs) and locally disrupted synteny blocks. Genes coding for sequence-related SPs are often locally clustered, but neither the SPs nor the TEs reside preferentially in genomic regions with unique features. Extended comparative analysis with different host-specific B. graminis formae speciales revealed the existence of a core suite of SPs, but also isolate-specific SP sets as well as congruence of SP CNV and phylogenetic relationship. We further detected evidence for a recent, lineage-specific expansion of TEs in the Bgh genome. The characteristics of the Bgh genome (largely retained synteny, CNV of SP genes, recently proliferated TEs and a lack of significant compartmentalization) are consistent with a "one-speed" genome that differs in its architecture and (co-)evolutionary pattern from the "two-speed" genomes reported for several other filamentous phytopathogens.
Whole-grain highland hull-less barley (WHLB) contains high amounts of bioactive compounds that potentially exhibit cholesterol-lowering effects. This study investigated the hypocholesterolaemic effect of WHLB. A total of seventy-two male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups and were fed with the normal control diet, high-fat diet (HFD) and HFD containing low or high dose (10 or 48·95 %) of WHLB. High dose of WHLB significantly decreased the organ indexes of liver and abdominal fat and lipid levels of plasma and liver in HFD rats. The lipid regulation effect of WHLB, which was reconfirmed through hepatocyte morphologic observation, was accompanied by a large excretion of bile acids in the small intestinal contents and the faeces. Real-time PCR analyses, which were further reconfirmed through Western blot analyses, revealed that a high dose of WHLB significantly enhanced the hepatic expressions of AMP-activated protein kinase α, cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase, LDL receptor, liver X receptor, and PPARα and decreased the expression of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase. It also enhanced the ileal expression of farnesoid X receptor and resulted in the decrease of expression of apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter. WHLB exhibited hypocholesterolaemic effects mainly by inhibiting cholesterol synthesis, cholesterol accumulation in peripheral tissue, and bile acid reabsorption and by stimulating bile acid synthesis.
Pathogens overcome plant immunity by means of secreted effectors. Host effector targets often act in pathogen defense, but might also support fungal accommodation or nutrition. The barley ROP GTPase HvRACB is involved in accommodation of fungal haustoria of the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh) in barley epidermal cells. We found that HvRACB interacts with the ROP-interactive peptide 1 (ROPIP1) that is encoded on the active non-long terminal repeat retroelement Eg-R1 of Bgh. Overexpression of ROPIP1 in barley epidermal cells and host-induced post-transcriptional gene silencing (HIGS) of ROPIP1 suggested that ROPIP1 is involved in virulence of Bgh. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation and co-localization supported that ROPIP1 can interact with activated HvRACB in planta. We show that ROPIP1 is expressed by Bgh on barley and translocated into the cytoplasm of infected barley cells. ROPIP1 is recruited to microtubules upon co-expression of MICROTUBULE ASSOCIATED ROP GTPase ACTIVATING PROTEIN (HvMAGAP1) and can destabilize cortical microtubules. The data suggest that Bgh ROPIP targets HvRACB and manipulates host cell microtubule organization for facilitated host cell entry. This points to a possible neo-functionalization of retroelement-derived transcripts for the evolution of a pathogen virulence effector.
Nine novel high-molecular-weight prolamins (HMW-prolamins) were isolated from Leymus multicaulis and L. chinensis. Based on the structure of the repetitive domains, all nine genes were classified as D-hordeins but not high-molecular-weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GSs) that have been previously isolated in Leymus spp. Four genes, Lmul 1.2, 2.4, 2.7, and Lchi 2.5 were verified by bacterial expression, whereas the other five sequences (1.3 types) were classified as pseudogenes. The four Leymus D-hordein proteins had longer N-termini than those of Hordeum spp. [116/118 vs. 110 amino acid (AA) residues], whereas three (Lmul 1.2, 2.4, and 2.7) contained shorter N-termini than those of the Ps. juncea (116 vs. 118 AA residues). Furthermore, Lmul 1.2 was identified as the smallest D-hordein, and Lmul 1.2 and 2.7 had an additional cysteines. Phylogenetic analysis supported that the nine D-hordeins of Leymus formed two independent clades, with all the 1.3 types clustered with Ps. juncea Ns 1.3, whereas the others were clustered together with the D-hordeins from Hordeum and Ps. juncea and the HMW-GSs from Leymus. Within the clade of four D-hordein genes and HMW-GSs, the HMW-GSs of Leymus formed a separated branch that served as an intermediate between the D-hordeins of Ps. juncea and Leymus. These novel D-hordeins may be potentially utilized in the improvement of food processing properties particularly those relating to extra cysteine residues. The findings of the present study also provide basic information for understanding the HMW-prolamins among Triticeae species, as well as expand the sources of D-hordeins from Hordeum to Leymus.
Genes controlling differences in seed longevity between 2 barley (Hordeum vulgare) accessions were identified by combining quantitative genetics "omics" technologies in near isogenic lines (NILs). The NILs were derived from crosses between the spring barley landraces L94 from Ethiopia and Cebada Capa from Argentina. A combined transcriptome and proteome analysis on mature, nonaged seeds of the 2 parental lines and the L94 NILs by RNA-sequencing and total seed proteomic profiling identified the UDP-glycosyltransferase MLOC_11661.1 as candidate gene for the quantitative trait loci on 2H, and the NADP-dependent malic enzyme (NADP-ME) MLOC_35785.1 as possible downstream target gene. To validate these candidates, they were expressed in Arabidopsis under the control of constitutive promoters to attempt complementing the T-DNA knockout line nadp-me1. Both the NADP-ME MLOC_35785.1 and the UDP-glycosyltransferase MLOC_11661.1 were able to rescue the nadp-me1 seed longevity phenotype. In the case of the UDP-glycosyltransferase, with high accumulation in NILs, only the coding sequence of Cebada Capa had a rescue effect.
Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) is a popular method for measuring transcript abundance. The most commonly used method of interpretation is relative quantification and thus necessitates the use of normalization controls (i.e. reference genes) to standardize transcript abundance. The most popular gene targets for RT-qPCR are housekeeping genes because they are thought to maintain a static transcript level among a variety of samples. However, more recent studies have shown, several housekeeping genes are not reliably stable. This is the first study to examine the potential of several reference genes for use in RT-qPCR normalization during barley malting. The process of malting barley mechanizes the imbibition and subsequent germination of barley seeds under controlled conditions. Malt quality is controlled by many pleiotropic genes that are determined by examining the result of physiological changes the barley seed undergoes during the malting process. We compared the stability of 13 reference genes across both two-and six-row malting barleys (Conrad and Legacy, respectfully) throughout the entirety of the malting process. Initially, primer target specificity, amplification efficiency and average Ct values were determined for each of the selected primer pairs. Three statistical programs (geNorm, NormFinder, and BestKeeper) were used to rank the stability of each reference gene. Rankings were similar between the two- and six-row with the exception of BestKeeper's ranking of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH). A consensus ranking among programs was determined using RefFinder. Our results show that Actin (ACT) and Heat Shock Protein 70 (HSP70) were the most stable throughout micromalting, while GAPDH and Cyclophilin (CYP) were the least stable. Two reference genes are necessary for stable transcript normalization according to geNorm and the best two reference genes (ACT and HSP70) provided a sufficient level of stability.
The SQUAMOSA-promoter binding like (SPL) gene family encodes transcription factors that have been shown in many species to influence plant growth and development, but information about these genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is limited. This study identified 17 barley SPL genes, within eight distinct groups, that are orthologs of SPL genes described in Arabidopsis, wheat, and rice. Sixteen barley SPLs undergo alternative splicing. Seven SPLs contain a putative miR156 target site and the transcript levels of the miR156-targeted HvSPLs (HvSPL3, 13 and 23) were lower in vegetative than in reproductive phase but this was true also for some SPL genes such as HvSPL6 that were not regulated by miR156. Because SPL gene products regulate miR172, which is also involved in floral development, the expression of miR172 was studied. An antagonistic expression pattern of miR156 and miR172b during the vegetative and the reproductive phases signifies their apparent function in barley growth phase transition. Characterization of a barley mir172 mutant having an abnormal, indeterminate spikelet phenotype suggests the possible feedback role of AP2/miR172 module on HvSPL genes. This is the first comprehensive analysis of the miR156/SPL/miR172 axis in barley that provides a basis to elucidate their roles in various biological processes.
Low availability of nitrogen (N) severely affects plant growth at different levels, which can be reverted by the resupply of N. To unravel the critical steps in primary metabolism underlying the growth adjustment in response to changes in N availability, transcriptomic and comprehensive metabolite analyses were performed in barley using primary leaves at early and later stages of N deprivation, and after N resupply to N-deficient plants. N deficiency in leaves caused differential regulation of 1947 genes, mostly belonging to the functional classes photosynthesis, cell wall degradation, lipid degradation, amino acid degradation, transcription factors, phytohormone metabolism and receptor-like kinases. Interestingly, 62% of the genes responding to low N were regulated in the opposite direction after two days of N resupply. Reprogramming of gene transcription was linked to metabolic rearrangements and affected the metabolism of amino acids and sugars. The levels of major amino acids, including Glu, Asp, Ser, Gln, Gly, Thr, Ala, and Val, decreased during primary leaf age and, more pronounced, during low N-induced senescence, which was efficiently reverted after resupply of N. A significant decrease was observed for pyruvate and metabolites involved in the TCA cycle under low N, and this was reverted to initial levels after 5 days of N resupply. Correspondingly, transcript levels of genes coding for pyruvate kinase, pyruvate dehydrogenase, and pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase followed the same trend as related metabolites. Our results show that upon N limitation a specific pathway for remobilization at the link between glycolysis and TCA cycle in barley is established that is at least partly regulated by a strict reprogramming of the gene coding for pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase. Further analysis of this pathway, its regulatory levels and biochemical changing of pyruvate metabolism enzymes in response to N availability is needed to determine the link between N status and primary metabolism.
Ecological divergence at a microsite suggests adaptive evolution, and this study examined two abutting wild barley populations, each 100 m across, differentially adapted to drought tolerance on two contrasting soil types, Terra Rossa and basalt at the Tabigha Evolution Slope, Israel. We resequenced the genomes of seven and six wild barley genotypes inhabiting the Terra Rossa and basalt soils, respectively, and identified a total of 69,192,653 single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) and insertions/deletions in comparison with a reference barley genome. Comparative genomic analysis between these abutting wild barley populations involved 19,615,087 high-quality SNVs. The results revealed dramatically different selection sweep regions relevant to drought tolerance driven by edaphic natural selection within 2,577 selected genes in these regions, including key drought-responsive genes associated with ABA synthesis and degradation (such as Cytochrome P450 protein) and ABA receptor complex (such as PYL2, SNF1-related kinase). The genetic diversity of the wild barley population inhabiting Terra Rossa soil is much higher than that from the basalt soil. Additionally, we identified different sets of genes for drought adaptation in the wild barley populations from Terra Rossa soil and from wild barley populations from Evolution Canyon I at Mount Carmel. These genes are associated with abscisic acid signaling, signaling and metabolism of reactive oxygen species, detoxification and antioxidative systems, rapid osmotic adjustment, and deep root morphology. The unique mechanisms for drought adaptation of the wild barley from the Tabigha Evolution Slope may be useful for crop improvement, particularly for breeding of barley cultivars with high drought tolerance.
The latest major group of plants to evolve were the grasses. These became important in the mid-Paleogene about 40 million years ago. During evolution, leaf CO
The phytohormones auxin and cytokinin control development and maintenance of plant meristems and stem cell systems. Fluorescent protein reporter lines that monitor phytohormone controlled gene expression programmes have been widely used to study development and differentiation in the model species Arabidopsis, but equivalent tools are still missing for the majority of crop species. Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is the fourth most abundant cereal crop plant, but knowledge on these important phytohormones in regard to the barley root and shoot stem cell niches is still negligible. We have now analysed the role of auxin and cytokinin in barley root meristem development, and present fluorescent protein reporter lines that allow to dissect auxin and cytokinin signalling outputs in vivo. We found that application of either auxin or cytokinin to barley seedlings negatively impacts root meristem growth. We further established a barley cytokinin reporter, TCSnew, which revealed significant cytokinin signalling in the stele cells proximal to the QC, and in the differentiated root cap cells. Application of exogenous cytokinin activated signalling in the root stem cell niche. Commonly employed auxin reporters DR5 or DR5v2 failed to respond to auxin in barley. However, analysis of putative auxin signalling targets barley PLETHORA1 (HvPLT1) is expressed in a similar pattern as its orthologue AtPLT1 from Arabidopsis, i.e. in the QC and the surrounding cells. Furthermore, the PINFORMED1 (HvPIN1) auxin efflux carrier was found to be expressed in root and shoot meristems, where it polarly localized to the plasma membrane. HvPIN1 expression is negatively regulated by cytokinin and its intracellular localisation is sensitive to brefeldinA (BFA). With this study, we provide the first fluorescent reporter lines as a tool to study auxin and cytokinin signalling and response pathways in barley.
Although barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is considered a salt tolerant crop species, productivity of barley is affected differently by ionic, osmotic, and oxidative stresses resulting from a salty rhizosphere. The current study was conducted to elucidate the mechanism of salt tolerance in two barley cultivars, Giza128 and Giza126. The two cultivars were exposed to 200 mM NaCl hydroponically for 12 days. Although both cultivars accumulated a large amount of Na
Under natural conditions, plants suffer different stresses simultaneously or in a sequential way. At present, the combined effect of biotic and abiotic stressors is one of the most important threats to crop production. Understanding how plants deal with the panoply of potential stresses affecting them is crucial to develop biotechnological tools to protect plants. As well as for drought stress, the economic importance of the spider mite on agriculture is expected to increase due to climate change. Barley is a host of the polyphagous spider mite
Drought is the most serious abiotic stress, and causes crop losses on a worldwide scale. The present study identified a previously unknown microRNA (designated as hvu-miRX) of 21 nucleotides (nt) in length in barley. Its precursor (designated pre-miRX) and primary transcript (designated pri-miRX) were also identified, with lengths of 73 and 559 nt, respectively. The identified upstream sequence of pri-miRX contained both the TATA box and the CAAT box, which are both required for initiation of transcription. Transient promoter activation assays showed that the core promoter region of pri-miRX ranged 500 nt from the transcription start site. In transgenic barley overexpression of the wheat DREB3 transcription factor (TaDREB3) caused hvu-miRX to be highly expressed as compared with the same miRNA in non-transgenic barley. However, the high expression was not directly associated with TaDREB3. Genomic analysis revealed that the hvu-miRX gene was a single copy located on the short arm of chromosome 2 and appeared to be only conserved in Triticeae, but not in other plant species. Notably, transgenic barley that overexpressed hvu-miRX showed drought tolerance. Degradome library analysis and other tests showed that hvu-miRX targeted various genes including transcription factors via the cleavage mode. Our data provides an excellent opportunity to develop drought stress tolerant cereals using hvu-miRX.
Somatic embryogenesis receptor-like kinases (SERKs) play an essential role in plant response to pathogen infection. Here we identified three
Gentiobiose, a β-1,6-linked glycosyl-disaccharide, accumulates abundantly in Gentianaceae and is involved in aspects of plant development, such as fruits ripening and release of bud dormancy. However, the mechanisms regulating the amount of gentio-oligosaccharide accumulation in plants remain obscure. The present study aimed to identify an enzyme that modulates gentio-oligosaccharide amount in gentian (
Microrchidia (MORC) proteins comprise a family of proteins that have been identified in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. They are defined by two hallmark domains: a GHKL-type ATPase and an S5-fold. In plants, MORC proteins were first discovered in a genetic screen for Arabidopsis thaliana mutants compromised for resistance to a viral pathogen. Subsequent studies expanded their role in plant immunity and revealed their involvement in gene silencing and genome stabilization. Little is known about the role of MORC proteins of cereals, especially because knockout (KO) mutants were not available and assessment of loss of function relied only on RNAi strategies, which were arguable, given that MORC proteins in itself are influencing gene silencing. Here, we used a Streptococcus pyogenes Cas9 (SpCas9)-mediated KO strategy to functionally study HvMORC1, one of the current seven MORC members of barley. Using a novel barley RNA Pol III-dependent U3 small nuclear RNA (snRNA) promoter to drive expression of the synthetic single guide RNA (sgRNA), we achieved a very high mutation frequency in HvMORC1. High frequencies of mutations were detectable by target sequencing in the callus, the T0 generation (77%) and T1 generation (70%-100%), which constitutes an important improvement of the gene-editing technology in cereals. Corroborating and extending earlier findings, SpCas9-edited hvmorc1-KO barley, in clear contrast to Arabidopsis atmorc1 mutants, had a distinct phenotype of increased disease resistance to fungal pathogens, while morc1 mutants of either plant showed de-repressed expression of transposable elements (TEs), substantiating that plant MORC proteins contribute to genome stabilization in monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants.
Plants have a non-energy conserving bypass of the classical mitochondrial cytochrome c pathway, known as the alternative respiratory pathway (AP). This involves type II NAD(P)H dehydrogenases (NDs) on both sides of the mitochondrial inner membrane, ubiquinone, and the alternative oxidase (AOX). The AP components have been widely characterised from Arabidopsis, but little is known for monocot species. We have identified all the genes encoding components of the AP in rice and barley and found the key genes which respond to oxidative stress conditions. In both species, AOX is encoded by four genes; in rice
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), a nonprotein amino acid, often accumulates in plants exposed to certain environmental stimuli. Previous studies indicated that a closed relationship existed between endogenous GABA and seed germination. However, there are few studies on the effect of exogenous GABA on seed germination. The objective of this study was to explore whether exogenous GABA affected α-amylase activity which the activation is an important stage in seed germination. The level of endogenous GABA in barley seeds rose gradually during germination, suggesting that endogenous GABA was involved in germination. We measured starch degradation under application of various concentration GABA and found that GABA promoted seed starch degradation with a dose-responsive effect. The relationship between GABA and α-amylase activity was investigated by treating barley aleurone with exogenous GABA. The result showed that α-amylase activity began to rise after about 24 h and reached a peak at 48 h. Molecular evidence suggested that GABA increased α-amylase gene expression. We explore the possible roles played by GABA in signal transduction.
In barley, it is possible to induce embryogenesis in the haploid and uninucleate microspore to obtain a diploid plant that is perfectly homozygous. To change developmental fates in this fashion, microspores need to engage in cellular de-differentiation, interrupting the pollen formation, and restore totipotency prior to engaging in embryogenesis. In this work, we used the barley cultivar Gobernadora to characterize the transcriptome of microspores prior to (day 0) and immediately after (days 2 and 5) the application of a stress pretreatment. A deep RNA-seq analysis revealed that microspores at these three time points exhibit a transcriptome of ∼14k genes, ∼90% of which were shared. An expression analysis identified a total of 3,382 differentially expressed genes (DEGs); of these, 2,155 and 2,281 DEGs were respectively identified when contrasting expression at days 0 and 2 and at days 2 and 5. These define 8 expression profiles in which DEGs share a common up- or down-regulation at these time points. Up-regulation of numerous glutathione S-transferase and heat shock protein genes as well as down-regulation of ribosomal subunit protein genes was observed between days 0 and 2. The transition from microspores to developing embryos (days 2
Nitric oxide (NO) has a general inhibitory effects on chlorophyll biosynthesis, especially to the step of 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) biosynthesis and protochlorophyllide (Pchlide) to chlorophyllide (Chlide) conversion (responsible by the NADPH:Pchlide oxidoreductase POR). Previous study suggested that barley large POR aggregates may be generated by dithiol oxidation of cysteines of two POR monomers, which can be disconnected by some reducing agents. POR aggregate assembly may be correlated with seedling greening in barley, but not in Arabidopsis. Thus, NO may affect POR activity and seedling greening differently between Arabidopsis and barley. We proved this assumption by non-denaturing gel-analysis and reactive oxygen species (ROS) monitoring during the greening. NO treatments cause S-nitrosylation to POR cysteine residues and disassembly of POR aggregates. This modification reduces POR activity and induces Pchlide accumulation and singlet oxygen generation upon dark-to-high-light shift (and therefore inducing photobleaching lesions) in barley leaf apex, but not in Arabidopsis seedlings. ROS staining and ROS-related-gene expression detection confirmed that superoxide anion and singlet oxygen accumulated in barley etiolated seedlings after the NO treatments, when exposed to a fluctuating light. The data suggest that POR aggregate assembly may be correlated with barley chlorophyll biosynthesis and redox homeostasis during greening. Cysteine S-nitrosylation may be one of the key reasons for the NO-induced inhibition to chlorophyll biosynthetic enzymes.
Despite a long history, the production of useful alien introgression lines in wheat remains difficult mainly due to linkage drag and incomplete genetic compensation. In addition, little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying the impact of foreign chromatin on plant phenotype. Here, a comparison of the transcriptomes of barley, wheat and a wheat-barley 7HL addition line allowed the transcriptional impact both on 7HL genes of a non-native genetic background and on the wheat gene complement as a result of the presence of 7HL to be assessed. Some 42% (389/923) of the 7HL genes assayed were differentially transcribed, which was the case for only 3% (960/35 301) of the wheat gene complement. The absence of any transcript in the addition line of a suite of chromosome 7A genes implied the presence of a 36 Mbp deletion at the distal end of the 7AL arm; this deletion was found to be in common across the full set of Chinese Spring/Betzes barley addition lines. The remaining differentially transcribed wheat genes were distributed across the whole genome. The up-regulated barley genes were mostly located in the proximal part of the 7HL arm, while the down-regulated ones were concentrated in the distal part; as a result, genes encoding basal cellular functions tended to be transcribed, while those encoding specific functions were suppressed. An insight has been gained into gene transcription in an alien introgression line, thereby providing a basis for understanding the interactions between wheat and exotic genes in introgression materials.
The bacterial strain IB-1, which exhibits antagonism towards phytopathogens and stimulates the growth of agricultural plants, was isolated from the soil. Analysis of the cultural, morphological, physiological, and biochemical features and nucleotide sequences of the genes 16S rRNA and gyrB, as well as the fatty acid composition, made it possible to attribute the strain IB-1 to the genus Paenibacillus; however, the results did not provide an unambiguous conclusion on its species. The strain Paenibacillus sp. IB-1 possesses nitrogenase activity, the ability to synthesize indoleacetic acid and cytokinin-like compounds, and antagonistic activity towards phytopathogenic fungi, which indicates prospects for its use as a biological product for agricultural purposes. A high-viscous exopolysaccharide was isolated from the cultural fluid of Paenibacillus sp. IB-1. Based on the data from IR and NMR spectroscopy, it was shown to be a heteropolymer comprised of one to four linked α-L-guluronic acid and β-D-mannuronic acid residues. The exopolysaccharide was successfully tested as an adhesive for presowing treatment of barley and wheat seeds with biofungicides.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family is involved in signal transduction networks that underpin many different biological processes in plants, ranging from development to biotic and abiotic stress responses. To date this class of enzymes has received little attention in Triticeae species, which include important cereal crops (wheat, barley, rye and triticale) that represent over 20% of the total protein food-source worldwide. The work presented here focuses on two subfamilies of Triticeae MAPKs, the MAP kinases (MPKs), and the MAPK kinases (MKKs) whose members phosphorylate the MPKs. In silico analysis of multiple Triticeae sequence databases led to the identification of 152 MAPKs belonging to these two sub-families. Some previously identified MAPKs were renamed to reflect the literature consensus on MAPK nomenclature. Two novel MPKs, MPK24 and MPK25, have been identified, including the first example of a plant MPK carrying the TGY activation loop sequence common to mammalian p38 MPKs. An EF-hand calcium-binding domain was found in members of the Triticeae MPK17 clade, a feature that appears to be specific to Triticeae species. New insights into the novel MEY activation loop identified in MPK11s are offered. When the exon-intron patterns for some MPKs and MKKs of wheat, barley and ancestors of wheat were assembled based on transcript data in GenBank, they showed deviations from the same sequence predicted in Ensembl. The functional relevance of MAPKs as derived from patterns of gene expression, MPK activation and MKK-MPK interaction is discussed. A comprehensive resource of accurately annotated and curated Triticeae MPK and MKK sequences has been created for wheat, barley, rye, triticale, and two ancestral wheat species, goat grass and red wild einkorn. The work we present here offers a central information resource that will resolve existing confusion in the literature and sustain expansion of MAPK research in the crucial Triticeae grains.
Cystatins have been largely used for pest control against phytophagous species. However, cystatins have not been commonly overexpressed in its cognate plant species to test their pesticide capacity. Since the inhibitory role of barley HvCPI-6 cystatin against the phytophagous mite
Protein breakdown and mobilization are some of the major metabolic features associated with abiotic stresses, essential for nutrient recycling and plant survival. Genetic manipulation of protease and/or protease inhibitors may contribute to modulate proteolytic processes and plant responses. The expression analysis of the whole cystatin family, inhibitors of C1A cysteine proteases, after water deprivation in barley leaves highlighted the involvement of Icy-2 and Icy-4 cystatin genes. Artificial microRNA lines independently silencing the two drought-induced cystatins were generated to assess their function in planta. Phenotype alterations at the final stages of the plant life cycle are represented by the stay-green phenotype of silenced cystatin 2 lines. Besides, the enhanced tolerance to drought and differential responses to water deprivation at the initial growing stages are observed. The mutual compensating expression of Icy-2 and Icy-4 genes in the silencing lines pointed to their cooperative role. Proteolytic patterns by silencing these cystatins were concomitant with modifications in the expression of potential target proteases, in particular, HvPap-1, HvPap-12, and HvPap-16 C1A proteases. Metabolomics analysis lines also revealed specific modifications in the accumulation of several metabolites. These findings support the use of plants with altered proteolytic regulation in crop improvement in the face of climate change.
The wheat stem sawfly (WSS), Cephus cinctus Norton (Hymenoptera: Cephidae), is an important pest of wheat and other cereals, threatening the quality and quantity of grain production. WSS larvae feed and develop inside the stem where they are protected from the external environment; therefore, pest management strategies primarily rely on host plant resistance. A major locus on the long arm of wheat chromosome 3B underlies most of the variation in stem solidness; however, the impact of stem solidness on WSS feeding has not been completely characterized. Here, we used a multiomics approach to examine the response to WSS in both solid- and semi-solid-stemmed wheat varieties. The combined transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic data revealed that two important molecular pathways, phenylpropanoid and phosphate pentose, are involved in plant defense against WSS. We also detected a general downregulation of several key defense transcripts, including those encoding secondary metabolites such as DIMBOA, tricetin, and lignin, which suggested that the WSS larva might interfere with plant defense. We comparatively analyzed the stem solidness genomic region known to be associated with WSS tolerance in wild emmer, durum, and bread wheats, and described syntenic regions in the close relatives barley, Brachypodium, and rice. Additionally, microRNAs identified from the same genomic region revealed potential regulatory pathways associated with the WSS response. We propose a model outlining the molecular responses of the WSS-wheat interactions. These findings provide insight into the link between stem solidness and WSS feeding at the molecular level.
As an important plateau cereal crop, hulless barley is the principal food for the Tibetan people in China. ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) is considered as the key enzyme for starch biosynthesis in plants. In this study, cDNAs encoding the small subunit (SSU I) and large subunit (LSU I) of AGPase were isolated from hulless barley. The results showed that SSU I and LSU I were 1438 and 1786 bp in length with a complete open reading frame (ORF) of 1419 and 1572 bp. The ORF-encoded polypeptides of 472 and 523 amino acids were having calculated molecular masses of 52.01 and 58.23 kDa, and the pI values were 5.59 and 6.30. In addition, phylogenetic analysis showed that SSU I and LSU I had the same phylogenetic trends with some species. Furthermore, expression levels in different growth periods and tissues of two hulless barley varieties were analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Gene expression levels of SSU I and LSU I were consistent with the total starch accumulation rate in endosperm. In conclusion, our data confirmed that SSU I and LSU I played an important role in hulless barley starch synthesis.
The shoot apical and axillary meristems control shoot development, effectively influencing lateral branch and leaf formation. The barley (
The WRKY transcription factors are a class of DNA-binding proteins involved in diverse plant processes play critical roles in response to abiotic and biotic stresses. Genome-wide divergence analysis of WRKY gene family in Hordeum vulgare provided a framework for molecular evolution and functional roles. So far, the crystal structure of WRKY from barley has not been resolved; moreover, knowledge of the three-dimensional structure of WRKY domain is pre-requisites for exploring the protein-DNA recognition mechanisms. Homology modelling based approach was used to generate structures for WRKY DNA binding domain (DBD) and its variants using AtWRKY1 as a template. Finally, the stability and conformational changes of the generated model in unbound and bound form was examined through atomistic molecular dynamics (MD) simulations for 100 ns time period. In this study, we investigated the comparative binding pattern of WRKY domain and its variants with W-box cis-regulatory element using molecular docking and dynamics (MD) simulations assays. The atomic insight into WRKY domain exhibited significant variation in the intermolecular hydrogen bonding pattern, leading to the structural anomalies in the variant type and differences in the DNA-binding specificities. Based on the MD analysis, residual contribution and interaction contour, wild-type WRKY (HvWRKY46) were found to interact with DNA through highly conserved heptapeptide in the pre- and post-MD simulated complexes, whereas heptapeptide interaction with DNA was missing in variants (I and II) in post-MD complexes. Consequently, through principal component analysis, wild-type WRKY was also found to be more stable by obscuring a reduced conformational space than the variant I (HvWRKY34). Lastly, high binding free energy for wild-type and variant II allowed us to conclude that wild-type WRKY-DNA complex was more stable relative to variants I. The results of our study revealed complete dynamic and structural information about WRKY domain-DNA interactions. However, no structure base information reported to date for WRKY variants and their mechanism of interaction with DNA. Our findings highlighted the importance of selecting a sequence to generate newer transgenic plants that would be increasingly tolerance to stress conditions.
The cuticle coats the primary aerial surfaces of land plants. It consists of cutin and waxes, which provide protection against desiccation, pathogens and herbivores. Acyl cuticular waxes are synthesized via elongase complexes that extend fatty acyl precursors up to 38 carbons for downstream modification pathways. The leaves of 21 barley eceriferum (cer) mutants appear to have less or no epicuticular wax crystals, making these mutants excellent tools for identifying elongase and modification pathway biosynthetic genes. Positional cloning of the gene mutated in cer-zh identified an elongase component, β-ketoacyl-CoA synthase (CER-ZH/HvKCS1) that is one of 34 homologous KCSs encoded by the barley genome. The biochemical function of CER-ZH was deduced from wax and cutin analyses and by heterologous expression in yeast. Combined, these experiments revealed that CER-ZH/HvKCS1 has a substrate specificity for C16-C20, especially unsaturated, acyl chains, thus playing a major role in total acyl chain elongation for wax biosynthesis. The contribution of CER-ZH to water barrier properties of the cuticle and its influence on the germination of barley powdery mildew fungus were also assessed.
Developmental processes and stress-induction activate many key proteins in plants such as metacaspase which regulate programmed cell death (PCD). In this study, identification of barley metacaspases and their possible roles upon boron (B)-induction was investigated by using in silico and wet-lab methods. Genome-wide analysis revealed that barley genome harbor ten metacaspases which divided into three groups: Type-I, -I* and -II. Segmental and tandem duplication contributed their expansion. Metacaspase-specific catalytic residues (His and Cys) were found to be altered in HvMC1, 2, and 4, in which His exchanged to Meth or Ala, critical for their activity and substrate selectivity. Cis-acting elements were found to be associated with three main processes: stress response, growth/development, and light response. Digital expression analysis from eight tissues revealed tissue specific metacaspase expressions. In addition, RT-qPCR analysis conducted in appropriate (50 µM) and excess-B (1 and-3 mM) conditions in different time points (3 and 10 days). Toxic level of B caused growth inhibition and chlorosis which appeared at the leaf tips. Also, PCD initiation was detected after 3 days of excess-B exposure. Digital expression and qPCR analysis agreed with each other that HvMC4 expression was significantly increased upon excess-B supplementation. In opposite, HvMC5 was down-regulated in the leaf zones which was another critical B-responsive gene in barley. Hence, HvMC4 and HvMC5 seem to have antagonistic effect during PCD regulation. These results can provide insights for metacaspase functionality in barley, not only limited for B-induction but also various kinds of PCD-causing conditions.
The objective of this study was to determine effect of ruminal acidosis (RA) and low feed intake [LFI] on the regional barrier function of the gastrointestinal tract. Twenty-one Holstein steers were fed for ad libitum intake for 5 d (control [CON]), fed at 25% of ad libitum intake for 5 d (LFI), or provided 2 d of ad libitum intake followed by 1-d of feed restriction (25% of ad libitum intake), 1 d where 30% of ad libitum dry matter intake (DMI) was provided as pelleted barley followed by the full allocation (RA) and fed for ad libitum intake the following day. Tissues and digesta from the rumen, omasum, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, cecum, proximal, and distal colon were collected. Permeability was assessed using the mucosal-to-serosal flux of inulin (JMS-inulin) and mannitol (JMS-mannitol). Digesta pH was 0.81, 0.63, and 0.42 pH units less for RA than CON in the rumen, cecum, and proximal colon; while, LFI had pH that was 0.47 and 0.36 pH units greater in the rumen and proximal colon compared to CON. Total ruminal short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) concentration were less for LFI (92 mM; P = 0.010) and RA (87 mM; P = 0.007) than CON (172 mM) steers. In the proximal colon, the proportion of butyrate (P = 0.025 and P = 0.022) and isobutyrate (P = 0.019 and P = 0.019) were greater, and acetate (P = 0.028 and P = 0.028) was less for LFI and RA, respectively, when compared to CON steers. Ruminal papillae length, width, perimeter, and surface area were 1.21 mm, 0.78 mm, 3.84 mm, and 11.15 mm2 less for LFI than CON; while, RA decreased papillae width by 0.52 mm relative to CON. The JMS-mannitol was less for LFI steers than CON in the proximal colon (P = 0.041) and in the distal colon (P = 0.015). Increased gene expression for claudin 1, occludin, tight-cell junction protein 1 and 2, and toll-like receptor 4 were detected for LFI relative to CON in the rumen, jejunum, and proximal colon. For RA steers, expression of toll-like receptor 4 in the rumen, and occludin and tight-cell junction protein 1 were greater in the jejunum than CON. An acute RA challenge decreased pH in the rumen and large intestine but did not increase tissue permeability due to increases in the expression of genes related to barrier function within 1 d of the challenge. Steers exposed to LFI for 5 d had reduced ruminal SCFA concentrations, smaller ruminal papillae dimensions, and increased tissue permeability in the proximal and distal colon despite increases for genes related to barrier function and immune function.
The cellular and molecular basis of a reduction in root water uptake in plants exposed to heavy metals such as zinc (Zn) is poorly studied. The aim of the present study on hydroponically grown barley (Hordeum vulgare) was to test whether any reduction in root hydraulic conductivity (Lp) in response to Zn treatment is accompanied by a reduction in cell Lp and gene expression level of aquaporin (AQP) isoforms. Plants were grown in the presence of 0.25 μM, (control), 0.1 and 1 mM Zn in the root medium and analysed when they were 16-18 days old. Root and cell Lp was determined through exudation and cell pressure probe analyses, respectively, and gene expression of five candidate AQPs was analysed [real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR)]. Zinc treatments caused significant reductions (25-83%) in transpiration rate, root and shoot fresh weight, surface area and stomatal conductance. Zinc concentrations in tissues increased more than 100-fold. Root Lp decreased by 24% (0.1 mM Zn) and 58% (1 mM Zn), while cell Lp decreased by 45 and 71%, respectively. Gene expression of AQPs decreased by 14-80%; decreases were statistically significant for HvPIP1;3, HvPIP2;4 and HvPIP2;5. Turgor in root cortex cells was not reduced by Zn treatments. It is concluded that reductions in plant water flow in response to Zn treatment are facilitated through decreases in root (Lp) and shoot (stomata) hydraulics. The decrease in root Lp is facilitated through reductions in cell Lp and AQP gene expression and may also reflect increased suberization in the endodermis.
Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) is an important seed-transmitted pathogen occurring worldwide. Recently, the occurrence of mild BSMV pathotypes has been observed in barley crops in Poland. In this study, the full-length genome sequences of mild and aggressive Polish and German BSMV isolates was established. Phylogenetic and recombination analysis was performed using Polish and other BSMV isolates described to date. The analysis revealed that Polish isolates differed only in 25 nucleotides, which suggests that point mutations might have had a great impact on the biological properties of the virus. The phylogenetic analysis revealed that the closest relationship was that between European and BSMV-CV42, BSMV-ND18 and BSMV-Type isolates, whereas the highest genetic distance was observed for BSMV-Qasr Ibrim and BSMV-China isolates. A recombination event within the αa protein of BSMV-De-M and BSMV-CV42 isolates was also detected. Moreover, a sensitive reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) method was developed for rapid detection of BSMV isolates. The RT-LAMP assay can be used for routine diagnostics of BSMV in seed and plant material.
Plants and insects have coexisted for million years and evolved a set of interactions which affect both organisms at different levels. Plants have developed various morphological and biochemical adaptations to cope with herbivores attacks. However, Tuta absoluta (Meyrick) (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae) has become the major pest threatening tomato crops worldwide and without the appropriated management it can cause production losses between 80 to 100%. The aim of this study was to investigate the in vivo effect of a serine proteinase inhibitor (BTI-CMe) and a cysteine proteinase inhibitor (Hv-CPI2) from barley on this insect and to examine the effect their expression has on tomato defensive responses. We found that larvae fed on tomato transgenic plants co-expressing both proteinase inhibitors showed a notable reduction in weight. Moreover, only 56% of these larvae reached the adult stage. The emerged adults showed wings deformities and reduced fertility. We also investigated the effect of proteinase inhibitors ingestion on the insect digestive enzymes. Our results showed a decrease in larval trypsin activity. Transgenes expression had no harmful effect on Nesidiocoris tenuis (Reuter) (Heteroptera: Miridae), a predator of Tuta absoluta, despite transgenic tomato plants attracted the mirid. We also found that barley cystatin expression promoted plant defense by inducing the expression of the tomato endogenous wound inducible Proteinase inhibitor 2 (Pin2) gene, increasing the production of glandular trichomes and altering the emission of volatile organic compounds. Our results demonstrate the usefulness of the co-expression of different proteinase inhibitors for the enhancement of plant resistance to Tuta absoluta.
The peptide LL-37, a component of the human innate immune system, represents a promising drug candidate. In particular, the development of low-cost production platform technology is a critical bottleneck in its use in medicine. In the present study, a viable approach for the LL-37 production in transgenic barley is developed. First, comparative analyses of the effects of different fused peptide epitope tags applicable for accumulation and purification on LL-37 production yield are performed using transient expression in tobacco leaves. Following the selection of the most yielding fusion peptide strategies, eight different constructs for the expression of codon optimized chimeric LL-37 genes in transgenic barley plants are created. The expression of individual constructs is driven either by an endosperm-specific promoter of the barley B1 hordein gene or by the maize ubiquitin promoter. The transgenes are stably integrated into the barley genome and inherited in the subsequent generation. All transgenic lines show normal phenotypes and are fertile. LL-37 accumulated in the barley seeds up to 0.55 mg per 1 kg of grain. The fused epitope tags are cleaved off by the use of enterokinase. Furthermore, in planta produced LL-37 including the fused versions is biologically active.
Spatiotemporal patterning throughout the plant body depends to a large degree on cell- and tissue-specific expression of genes. Subsequently, for a better understanding of cell and tissue differentiation processes during plant development it is important to conduct transcript analyses in individual cells or tissue types rather than in bulk tissues. Laser capture microdissection (LCM) provides a useful method for isolating specific cell types from complex tissue structures for downstream applications. Contrasting to mammalian cells, the texture of plant cells is more critical due to hard, cellulose-rich cell walls, large vacuoles, and air spaces which complicates tissue preparation and extraction of macromolecules, like DNA and RNA. In particular, developing barley seeds (i.e. grains) depict cell types with differences in osmomolarity (meristematic, differentiating and degenerating tissues) and contain high amounts of the main storage product starch. In this study, we report about methods allowing tissue-specific transcriptome profiling by RNA-seq of developing barley grain tissues from low-input RNA amounts. Details on tissue preparation, laser capture microdissection, RNA isolation, and linear mRNA amplification to produce high-quality samples for Illumina sequencing are provided. Particular emphasis was placed on the influence of the mRNA amplification step on the transcriptome data and the fidelity of deduced expression levels obtained by the developed methods. Analysis of RNA-seq data confirmed sample processing as a highly reliable and reproducible procedure that was also used for transcriptome analyses of different tissue types from barley plants.
Microspores are reprogrammed towards embryogenesis by stress. Many microspores die after this stress, limiting the efficiency of microspore embryogenesis. Autophagy is a degradation pathway that plays critical roles in stress response and cell death. In animals, cathepsins have an integral role in autophagy by degrading autophagic material; less is known in plants. Plant cathepsins are papain-like C1A cysteine proteases involved in many physiological processes, including programmed cell death. We have analysed the involvement of autophagy in cell death, in relation to cathepsin activation, during stress-induced microspore embryogenesis in Hordeum vulgare. After stress, reactive oxygen species (ROS) and cell death increased and autophagy was activated, including HvATG5 and HvATG6 up-regulation and increase of ATG5, ATG8, and autophagosomes. Concomitantly, cathepsin L/F-, B-, and H-like activities were induced, cathepsin-like genes HvPap-1 and HvPap-6 were up-regulated, and HvPap-1, HvPap-6, and HvPap-19 proteins increased and localized in the cytoplasm, resembling autophagy structures. Inhibitors of autophagy and cysteine proteases reduced cell death and promoted embryogenesis. The findings reveal a role for autophagy in stress-induced cell death during microspore embryogenesis, and the participation of cathepsins. Similar patterns of activation, expression, and localization suggest a possible connection between cathepsins and autophagy. The results open up new possibilities to enhance microspore embryogenesis efficiency with autophagy and/or cysteine protease modulators.
Ramularia collo-cygni is an ascomycete fungus that colonizes barley primarily as a benign endophyte, although this interaction can become pathogenic, causing the disease Ramularia leaf spot (RLS). Factors, particularly reactive oxygen species, that resulted in the transition of the fungus from endophyte to necrotrophic parasite and the development of disease symptoms were investigated. Disease development in artificially inoculated seedlings of barley varieties varying in partial resistance to RLS was related to exposure to abiotic stress prior to inoculation. Histochemical and molecular analysis determined the effect of R. collo-cygni colonization on accumulation of reactive oxygen species and antioxidant gene expression. Development of RLS on barley lines defective in antioxidant enzymes and with altered redox status or non-functional chloroplasts was compared with the accumulation of fungal biomass to determine how these factors affect disease symptom expression. Exposure to abiotic stress increased symptom development in all susceptible and most partially resistant barley varieties, in association with greater hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) levels in leaves. Decreased activity of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase in transgenic and mutant plants had no effect on the disease transition, whereas manipulation of H2O2 levels during asymptomatic growth of the fungus increased disease symptoms in most susceptible varieties but not in partially resistant plants. Barley mutants that undergo rapid loss of green leaf area when infected by R. collo-cygni or albino mutants with non-functional chloroplasts showed reduced development of RLS symptoms. These results imply that in seedlings the pathogenic transition of the normally endophytic fungus R. collo-cygni does not result from senescence as such, but rather is promoted by factors that result in changes to host reactive oxygen species. Barley varieties vary in the extent to which these factors promote RLS disease.
Hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum. hook. f.) has been cultivated as a major crop in the Qinghai-Tibet plateau of China for thousands of years. Compared to other cereal crops, the Tibetan hulless barley has developed stronger endogenous resistances to survive in the severe environment of its habitat. To understand the unique resistant mechanisms of this plant, detailed genetic studies need to be performed. The quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) is the most commonly used method in detecting gene expression. However, the selection of stable reference genes under limited experimental conditions was considered to be an essential step for obtaining accurate results in qRT-PCR. In this study, 10 candidate reference genes-ACT (Actin), E2 (Ubiquitin conjugating enzyme 2), TUBα (Alpha-tubulin), TUBβ6 (Beta-tubulin 6), GAPDH (Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase), EF-1α (Elongation factor 1-alpha), SAMDC (S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase), PKABA1 (Gene for protein kinase HvPKABA1), PGK (Phosphoglycerate kinase), and HSP90 (Heat shock protein 90)-were selected from the NCBI gene database of barley. Following qRT-PCR amplifications of all candidate reference genes in Tibetan hulless barley seedlings under various stressed conditions, the stabilities of these candidates were analyzed by three individual software packages including geNorm, NormFinder, and BestKeeper. The results demonstrated that TUBβ6, E2, TUBα, and HSP90 were generally the most suitable sets under all tested conditions; similarly, TUBα and HSP90 showed peak stability under salt stress, TUBα and EF-1α were the most suitable reference genes under cold stress, and ACT and E2 were the most stable under drought stress. Finally, a known circadian gene CCA1 was used to verify the service ability of chosen reference genes. The results confirmed that all recommended reference genes by the three software were suitable for gene expression analysis under tested stress conditions by the qRT-PCR method.
Aphids are pests on many crops and depend on plant phloem sap as their food source. In an attempt to find factors improving plant resistance against aphids, we studied the effects of overexpression and down-regulation of the lipoxygenase gene
Epigenetic mechanisms, including histone modifications and DNA methylation, mutually regulate chromatin structure, maintain genome integrity, and affect gene expression and transposon mobility. Variations in DNA methylation within plant populations, as well as methylation in response to internal and external factors, are of increasing interest, especially in the crop research field. Methylation Sensitive Amplification Polymorphism (MSAP) is one of the most commonly used methods for assessing DNA methylation changes in plants. This method involves gel-based visualization of PCR fragments from selectively amplified DNA that are cleaved using methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes. In this study, we developed and validated a new method based on the conventional MSAP approach called Methylation Sensitive Amplification Polymorphism Sequencing (MSAP-Seq). We improved the MSAP-based approach by replacing the conventional separation of amplicons on polyacrylamide gels with direct, high-throughput sequencing using Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) and automated data analysis. MSAP-Seq allows for global sequence-based identification of changes in DNA methylation. This technique was validated in
Hull-less barley is increasingly offering scope for breeding grains with improved characteristics for human nutrition; however, recalcitrance of hull-less cultivars to transformation has limited the use of these varieties. To overcome this limitation, we sought to develop an effective transformation system for hull-less barley using the cultivar Torrens. Torrens yielded a transformation efficiency of 1.8%, using a modified Agrobacterium transformation method. This method was used to over-express genes encoding synthases for the important dietary fiber component, (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan (mixed-linkage glucan), primarily present in starchy endosperm cell walls. Over-expression of the HvCslF6 gene, driven by an endosperm-specific promoter, produced lines where mixed-linkage glucan content increased on average by 45%, peaking at 70% in some lines, with smaller increases in transgenic HvCslH1 grain. Transgenic HvCslF6 lines displayed alterations where grain had a darker color, were more easily crushed than wild type and were smaller. This was associated with an enlarged cavity in the central endosperm and changes in cell morphology, including aleurone and sub-aleurone cells. This work provides proof-of-concept evidence that mixed-linkage glucan content in hull-less barley grain can be increased by over-expression of the HvCslF6 gene, but also indicates that hull-less cultivars may be more sensitive to attempts to modify cell wall composition.
Class 1 plant hemoglobins (phytoglobins) are upregulated during low-oxygen stress and participate in metabolism and cell signaling via modulation of the levels of nitric oxide (NO). We studied the effects of overexpression and knockdown of the class 1 phytoglobin gene in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) under low-oxygen stress. The overexpression of phytoglobin reduced the amount of NO released, while knockdown significantly stimulated NO emission. It has previously been shown that NO inhibits aconitase activity, so decreased aconitase activity in knockdown plants acts as a biomarker for high internal NO levels. The overexpression of phytoglobin corresponded to higher ATP/ADP ratios, pyrophosphate levels and aconitase activity under anoxia, while knockdown of phytoglobin resulted in the increased level of protein nitrosylation, elevation of alcohol dehydrogenase and nitrosoglutathione reductase activities. The overexpressing plants showed various signs of stunted growth under normoxia, but were the only type to germinate and survive under hypoxia. The results show that overexpression of phytoglobin protects plant cells via NO scavenging and improves their low-oxygen stress survival. However, it may not be useful for cereal crop improvement since it comes with a significant interference with normoxic NO signalling pathways.
Transporters involved in manganese (Mn) uptake and intracellular Mn homeostasis in Arabidopsis and rice are well characterized, while much less is known for barley, which is particularly prone to Mn deficiency. In this study we have investigated the role of the iron-regulated transporter 1 (IRT1) for Mn uptake and translocation in barley plants. We employed an RNAi approach to reduce HvIRT1 expression to 5% of the wild-type level. This enabled characterization of the functional role of HvIRT1 by use of advanced imaging and phenotyping techniques applied to plants growing in hydroponics or soils with different Mn availability. Our results highlight the importance of HvIRT1 for the transport of Mn across the root endodermis into the stele. In the hvirt1-RNAi lines, a chlorotic phenotype with reduced shoot Mn concentration and impaired photosynthetic functionality was observed, especially under conditions with low Mn availability. We also document that HvIRT1 controlled the Mn distribution within the barley grain. Surprisingly, unlike other IRT1 orthologues, HvIRT1 played no significant role in iron uptake. We conclude that the barley IRT1 orthologue has a novel function with respect to ensuring sufficient shoot Mn concentrations. The preference of IRT1 for Mn instead of Fe is discussed in an evolutionary context.
Nonhost resistance (NHR) protects plants against a vast number of non-adapted pathogens which implicates a potential exploitation as source for novel disease resistance strategies. Aiming at a fundamental understanding of NHR a global analysis of transcriptome reprogramming in the economically important Triticeae cereals wheat and barley, comparing host and nonhost interactions in three major fungal pathosystems responsible for powdery mildew (Blumeria graminis ff. ssp.), cereal blast (Magnaporthe sp.) and leaf rust (Puccinia sp.) diseases, was performed. In each pathosystem a significant transcriptome reprogramming by adapted- or non-adapted pathogen isolates was observed, with considerable overlap between Blumeria, Magnaporthe and Puccinia. Small subsets of these general pathogen-regulated genes were identified as differentially regulated between host and corresponding nonhost interactions, indicating a fine-tuning of the general pathogen response during the course of co-evolution. Additionally, the host- or nonhost-related responses were rather specific for each pair of adapted and non-adapted isolates, indicating that the nonhost resistance-related responses were to a great extent pathosystem-specific. This pathosystem-specific reprogramming may reflect different resistance mechanisms operating against non-adapted pathogens with different lifestyles, or equally, different co-option of the hosts by the adapted isolates to create an optimal environment for infection. To compare the transcriptional reprogramming between wheat and barley, putative orthologues were identified. Within the wheat and barley general pathogen-regulated genes, temporal expression profiles of orthologues looked similar, indicating conserved general responses in Triticeae against fungal attack. However, the comparison of orthologues differentially expressed between host and nonhost interactions revealed fewer commonalities between wheat and barley, but rather suggested different host or nonhost responses in the two cereal species. Taken together, our results suggest independent co-evolutionary forces acting on host pathosystems mirrored by barley- or wheat-specific nonhost responses. As a result of evolutionary processes, at least for the pathosystems investigated, NHR appears to rely on rather specific plant responses.
Chitosan is a natural polymer with applications in agriculture, which causes plasma membrane permeabilisation and induction of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) in plants. Chitosan has been mostly applied in the phylloplane to control plant diseases and to enhance plant defences, but has also been considered for controlling root pests. However, the effect of chitosan on roots is virtually unknown. In this work, we show that chitosan interfered with auxin homeostasis in Arabidopsis roots, promoting a 2-3 fold accumulation of indole acetic acid (IAA). We observed chitosan dose-dependent alterations of auxin synthesis, transport and signalling in Arabidopsis roots. As a consequence, high doses of chitosan reduce WOX5 expression in the root apical meristem and arrest root growth. Chitosan also propitiates accumulation of salicylic (SA) and jasmonic (JA) acids in Arabidopsis roots by induction of genes involved in their biosynthesis and signalling. In addition, high-dose chitosan irrigation of tomato and barley plants also arrests root development. Tomato root apices treated with chitosan showed isodiametric cells respect to rectangular cells in the controls. We found that chitosan causes strong alterations in root cell morphology. Our results highlight the importance of considering chitosan dose during agronomical applications to the rhizosphere.
This study demonstrates how identification of genes underpinning disease-resistance QTL based on differential expression and SNPs can be improved by performing transcriptomic analysis on multiple near isogenic lines. Transcriptomic analysis has been widely used to understand the genetic basis of a trait of interest by comparing genotypes with contrasting phenotypes. However, these approaches identify such large sets of differentially expressed genes that it proves difficult to isolate which genes underpin the phenotype of interest. This study tests whether using multiple near isogenic lines (NILs) can improve the resolution of RNA-seq-based approaches to identify genes underpinning disease-resistance QTL. A set of NILs for a major effect Fusarium crown rot-resistance QTL in barley on the 4HL chromosome arm were analysed under Fusarium crown rot using RNA-seq. Differential gene expression and single nucleotide polymorphism detection analyses reduced the number of putative candidates from thousands within individual NIL pairs to only one hundred and two genes, which were differentially expressed or contained SNPs in common across NIL pairs and occurred on 4HL. Our findings support the value of performing RNA-seq analysis using multiple NILs to remove genetic background effects. The enrichment analyses indicated conserved differences in the response to infection between resistant and sensitive isolines suggesting that sensitive isolines are impaired in systemic defence response to Fusarium pseudograminearum.
Many biological processes, such as cell wall hydrolysis and the mobilisation of nutrient reserves from the starchy endosperm, require stringent regulation to successfully malt barley (
Suc transporters (SUTs) play a key role in the allocation and partitioning of photosynthetically fixed carbon in plants. While a function could be assigned to many members of the SUT family, almost no information is available on their regulation. Here, the transcriptional regulation of SUTs in response to various environmental stimuli in the leaves of five dicots (Arabidopsis [
Agricultural crops suffer many diseases, including fungal and bacterial infections, causing significant yield losses. The identification and characterisation of pathogenesis-related protein genes, such as chitinases, can lead to reduction in pathogen growth, thereby increasing tolerance against fungal pathogens. In the present study, the chitinase I gene was isolated from the genomic DNA of Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivar, Haider-93. The isolated DNA was used as template for the amplification of the ∼935bp full-length chitinase I gene. Based on the sequence of the amplified gene fragment, class I barley chitinase shares 93% amino acid sequence homology with class II wheat chitinase. Interestingly, barley class I chitinase and class II chitinase do not share sequence homology. Furthermore, the amplified fragment was expressed in Escherichia coli Rosetta strain under the control of T7 promoter in pET 30a vector. Recombinant chitinase protein of 35kDa exhibited highest expression at 0.5mM concentration of IPTG. Expressed recombinant protein of 35kDa was purified to homogeneity with affinity chromatography. Following purification, a Western blot assay for recombinant chitinase protein measuring 35kDa was developed with His-tag specific antibodies. The purified recombinant chitinase protein was demonstrated to inhibit significantly the important phytopathogenic fungi Alternaria solani, Fusarium spp, Rhizoctonia solani and Verticillium dahliae compared to the control at concentrations of 80μg and 200μg.
We previously showed that barley sprout extract (BSE) prevents chronic alcohol intake-induced liver injury in mice. BSE notably inhibited glutathione (GSH) depletion and increased inflammatory responses, revealing its mechanism of preventing alcohol-induced liver injury. In the present study we investigated whether the antioxidant effect of BSE involves enhancing nuclear factor-erythroid 2 related factor 2 (Nrf2) activity and GSH synthesis to inhibit alcohol-induced oxidative liver injury. Mice fed alcohol for four weeks exhibited significantly increased oxidative stress, evidenced by increased malondialdehyde (MDA) level and 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) immunostaining in the liver, whereas treatment with BSE (100 mg/kg) prevented these effects. Similarly, exposure to BSE (0.1-1 mg/mL) significantly reduced oxidative cell death induced by
Among natural populations, there are different colours of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). The colour of barley grains is directly related to the accumulation of different pigments in the aleurone layer, pericarp and lemma. Blue grain colour is due to the accumulation of anthocyanins in the aleurone layer, which is dependent on the presence of five Blx genes that are not sequenced yet (Blx1, Blx3 and Blx4 genes clustering on chromosome 4HL and Blx2 and Blx5 on 7HL). Due to the health benefits of anthocyanins, blue-grained barley can be considered as a source of dietary food. The goal of the current study was to identify and characterize components of the anthocyanin synthesis regulatory network for the aleurone layer in barley. The candidate genes for components of the regulatory complex MBW (consisting of transcription factors MYB, bHLH/MYC and WD40) for anthocyanin synthesis in barley aleurone were identified. These genes were designated HvMyc2 (4HL), HvMpc2 (4HL), and HvWD40 (6HL). HvMyc2 was expressed in aleurone cells only. A loss-of-function (frame shift) mutation in HvMyc2 of non-coloured compared to blue-grained barley was revealed. Unlike aleurone-specific HvMyc2, the HvMpc2 gene was expressed in different tissues; however, its activity was not detected in non-coloured aleurone in contrast to a coloured aleurone, and allele-specific mutations in its promoter region were found. The single-copy gene HvWD40, which encodes the required component of the regulatory MBW complex, was expressed constantly in coloured and non-coloured tissues and had no allelic differences. HvMyc2 and HvMpc2 were genetically mapped using allele-specific developed CAPS markers developed. HvMyc2 was mapped in position between SSR loci XGBS0875-4H (3.4 cM distal) and XGBM1048-4H (3.4 cM proximal) matching the region chromosome 4HL where the Blx-cluster was found. In this position, one of the anthocyanin biosynthesis structural genes (HvF3'5'H) was also mapped using an allele-specific CAPS-marker developed in the current study. The genes involved in anthocyanin synthesis in the barley aleurone layer were identified and characterized, including components of the regulatory complex MBW, from which the MYC-encoding gene (HvMyc2) appeared to be the main factor underlying variation of barley by aleurone colour.
Some plant species have 'melanin-like' black seed pigmentation. However, the chemical and genetic nature of this 'melanin-like' black pigment have not yet been fully explored due to its complex structure and ability to withstand almost all solvents. Nevertheless, identification of genetic networks participating in trait formation is key to understanding metabolic processes involved in the expression of 'melanin-like' black seed pigmentation. The aim of the current study was to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in barley near-isogenic lines (NILs) differing by allelic state of the Blp (black lemma and pericarp) locus. RNA-seq analysis of six libraries (three replicates for each line) was performed. A total of 957 genome fragments had statistically significant changes in expression levels between lines BLP and BW, with 632 fragments having increased expression levels in line BLP and 325 genome fragments having decreased expression. Among identified DEGs, 191 genes were recognized as participating in known pathways. Among these were metabolic pathways including 'suberin monomer biosynthesis', 'diterpene phytoalexins precursors biosynthesis', 'cutin biosynthesis', 'cuticular wax biosynthesis', and 'phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, initial reactions'. Differential expression was confirmed by real-time PCR analysis of selected genes. Metabolic pathways and genes presumably associated with black lemma and pericarp colour as well as Blp-associated resistance to oxidative stress and pathogens, were revealed. We suggest that the black pigmentation of lemmas and pericarps is related to increased level of phenolic compounds and their oxidation. The effect of functional Blp on the synthesis of ferulic acid and other phenolic compounds can explain the increased antioxidant capacity and biotic and abiotic stress tolerance of black-grained cereals. Their drought tolerance and resistance to diseases affecting the spike may also be related to cuticular wax biosynthesis. In addition, upregulated synthesis of phytoalexins, suberin and universal stress protein (USP) in lemmas and pericarps of the Blp carriers may contribute to their increased disease resistance. Further description of the DEGs haplotypes and study of their association with physiological characteristics may be useful for future application in barley pre-breeding.
Lisosan® Reduction is a plant mixture produced from powder of fermented Triticum aestivum (Lisosan® G), Desmodium adscendens, Malus domestica, Picrorhiza kurroa and Hordeum vulgare. The aim of this study was to characterise the phenolic profile of Lisosan® Reduction and to evaluate the effects of aqueous extract on mice fed a high fat diet (HFD). Syringic acid, trans sinapic acid and neochlorogenic acid were identified by HPLC-DAD to be the dominant polyphenols of Lisosan® Reduction, followed by vitexin, trans p-coumeric acid and trans ferulic acid. Mice treated with aqueous extract of Lisosan® Reduction (60 mg/kg b.w.) showed a significant decrease of serum cholesterol, glucose and triglycerides level and a significant increase of CYP7A1 gene expression, compared to HFD group.
Seedling characteristics play significant roles in the growth and development of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), including stable stand establishment, water and nutrients uptake, biotic resistance and abiotic stresses, and can influence yield and quality. However, the genetic mechanisms underlying seedling characteristics in barley are largely unknown and little research has been done. In the present work, 21 seedling-related characteristics are assessed in a barley double haploid (DH) population, grown under hydroponic conditions. Of them, leaf age (LAG), shoot height (SH), maximum root length (MRL), main root number (MRN) and seedling fresh weight (SFW) were investigated at the 13th, 20th, 27th, and 34th day after germination. The objectives were to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) underlying these seedling characteristics using a high-density linkage map and to reveal the QTL expression pattern by comparing the QTLs among four different seedling growth stages. A total of 70 QTLs were distributed over all chromosomes except 4H, and, individually, accounted for 5.01%-77.78% of phenotypic variation. Out of the 70 detected QTLs, 23 showed a major effect on 14 seedling-related characteristics. Ten co-localized chromosomal regions on 2H (five regions), 3H (two regions) and 7H (three regions) involved 39 QTLs (55.71%), each simultaneously influenced more than one trait. Meanwhile, 9 co-localized genomic regions involving 22 QTLs for five seedling characteristics (LAG, SH, MRL, MRN and SFW) at the 13th, 20th, 27th and 34th day-old seedling were common for two or more growth stages of seedling. QTL in the vicinity of Vrs1 locus on chromosome 2H with the favorable alleles from Huadamai 6 was found to have the largest main effects on multiple seedling-related traits. Six QTL cluster regions associated with 16 seedling-related characteristics were observed on chromosome 2H, 3H and 7H. The majority of the 29 regions identified for five seedling characteristics were selectively expressed at different developmental stages. The genetic effects of 9 consecutive expression regions displayed different developmental influences at different developmental stages. These findings enhanced our understanding of a genetic basis underlying seedling characteristics in barley. Some QTLs detected here could be used for marker-assisted selection (MAS) in barley breeding.
Under field conditions, drought and heat stress typically happen simultaneously and their negative impact on the agricultural production is expected to increase worldwide under the climate change scenario. In this study, we performed RNA-sequencing analysis on leaves of wild barley (Hordeum spontaneum) originated from the northern coastal region of Egypt following individual drought acclimation (DA) and heat shock (HS) treatments and their combination (CS, combined stresses) to distinguish the unique and shared differentially expressed genes (DEG). Results indicated that the number of unique genes that were differentially expressed following HS treatment exceeded the number of those expressed following DA. In addition, the number of genes that were uniquely differentially expressed in response to CS treatment exceeded the number of those of shared responses to individual DA and HS treatments. These results indicate a better adaptation of the Mediterranean wild barley to drought conditions when compared with heat stress. It also manifests that the wild barley response to CS tends to be unique rather than common. Annotation of DEG showed that metabolic processes were the most influenced biological function in response to the applied stresses.
While root exudation follows diurnal rhythms, little is known about the consequences for the microbiome of the rhizosphere. In this study, we used a metatranscriptomic approach to analyze the active microbial communities, before and after sunrise, in the rhizosphere of barley. We detected increased activities of many prokaryotic microbial taxa and functions at the pre-dawn stage, compared to post-dawn. Actinomycetales, Planctomycetales, Rhizobiales, and Burkholderiales were the most abundant and therefore the most active orders in the barley rhizosphere. The latter two, as well as Xanthomonadales, Sphingomonadales, and Caulobacterales showed a significantly higher abundance in pre-dawn samples compared to post-dawn samples. These changes in taxonomy coincide with functional changes as genes involved in both carbohydrate and amino acid metabolism were more abundant in pre-dawn samples compared to post-dawn samples. This study significantly enhances our present knowledge on how rhizospheric microbiota perceives and responds to changes in the soil during dark and light periods.
A Cre-lox based auto-excision strategy has been adapted for barley, capable of cre and selectable marker gene (SMG) removal. The cold inducible wheat promoter called wcs120 was utilised for driving Cre expression. The binary vector was carrying the transgene (uidA) and a so called 'recombination cassette' flanked by the lox sequences. This part included both the recombinase gene and the SMG (bar) under the control of a constitutive promoter. T
POPSEQ Ordered Triticum aestivum Gene Expression (POTAGE) is a web application which accelerates the process of identifying candidate genes for quantitative trait loci (QTL) in hexaploid wheat. This is achieved by leveraging several of the most commonly used data sets in wheat research. These include the Chromosome Survey Sequences, their order along the chromosomes determined by the population sequencing (POPSEQ) approach, the gene predictions and RNA-Seq expression data. POTAGE aggregates those data sets and provides an intuitive interface for biologists to explore the expression of the predicted genes and their functional annotation in a chromosomal context. The interface accelerates some of the laborious and repetitive tasks commonly undertaken in the process of identifying and prioritising genes which may underlie QTL. We illustrate the utility of POTAGE by showing how a short-list of candidate genes can quickly be identified for a QTL linked to pre-harvest sprouting - a major cause of quality and yield loss in wheat production. The candidate genes identified using POTAGE included TaMKK3, which was recently reported as a causal gene for seed dormancy in wheat, and a mutation in its barley ortholog has been shown to reduce pre-harvest sprouting. POTAGE is available at http://crobiad.agwine.adelaide.edu.au/potage .
Heavy metal pollution, as a consequence of rapid industrialization and urbanization, poses a threat to highland barley grown in Tibet. This study investigates the effect of different doses of gamma irradiation (50-300 Gy) on the physio-biochemical and molecular mechanism of highland barley under heavy metal stress. Growth data showed that 50-Gy gamma irradiation had the maximal beneficial effects on the highland barley seedlings under lead/cadmium stress. The results of oxidative parameters demonstrated that 50-Gy gamma-irradiated seedlings had lower hydrogen peroxide and malondialdehyde contents under lead/cadmium stress compared to non-irradiated seedlings. Moreover, the activities of antioxidant enzyme and proline levels in 50-Gy gamma-irradiated seedlings were drastically higher than those in non-irradiated seedlings under lead/cadmium stress. Additionally, transmission electron microscopy results revealed that the 50-Gy gamma-irradiated seedlings exhibited improved chloroplasts ultrastructure compared with non-irradiated seedlings exposed to lead/cadmium stress. Notably, transcriptional expression analysis showed that 50-Gy gamma irradiation could significantly affect the expression of genes related to heavy metal transport and abscisic acid metabolism under lead/cadmium stress. Collectively, these results provide insights into the physio-biochemical and molecular mechanisms of low-dose-gamma-irradiation-enhanced heavy metal tolerance in highland barley seedlings, thus proposing gamma irradiation as a potential technology to mitigate heavy metal toxicity in crops.
Tritrophic interactions involving a biocontrol agent, a pathogen and a plant have been analyzed predominantly from the perspective of the biocontrol agent. We have conducted the first comprehensive transcriptomic analysis of all three organisms in an effort to understand the elusive properties of Pseudozyma flocculosa in the context of its biocontrol activity against Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei as it parasitizes Hordeum vulgare. After inoculation of P. flocculosa, the tripartite interaction was monitored over time and samples collected for scanning electron microscopy and RNA sequencing. Based on our observations, P. flocculosa indirectly parasitizes barley, albeit transiently, by diverting nutrients extracted by B. graminis from barley leaves through a process involving unique effectors. This brings novel evidence that such molecules can also influence fungal-fungal interactions. Their release is synchronized with a higher expression of powdery mildew haustorial effectors, a sharp decline in the photosynthetic machinery of barley and a developmental peak in P. flocculosa. The interaction culminates with a collapse of B. graminis haustoria, thereby stopping P. flocculosa growth, as barley plants show higher metabolic activity. To conclude, our study has uncovered a complex and intricate phenomenon, described here as hyperbiotrophy, only achievable through the conjugated action of the three protagonists.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a key messenger in plant stress responses but its exact role in drought response remains unclear. To investigate the role of NO in drought response we employed transgenic barley plants (UHb) overexpressing the barley non-symbiotic hemoglobin gene HvHb1 that oxidizes NO to NO
The barley inflorescence (spike) comprises a multi-noded central stalk (rachis) with tri-partite clusters of uni-floretted spikelets attached alternately along its length. Relative fertility of lateral spikelets within each cluster leads to spikes with two or six rows of grain, or an intermediate morphology. Understanding the mechanisms controlling this key developmental step could provide novel solutions to enhanced grain yield. Classical genetic studies identified five major SIX-ROWED SPIKE (VRS) genes, with four now known to encode transcription factors. Here we identify and characterise the remaining major VRS gene, VRS3, as encoding a putative Jumonji C-type H3K9me2/me3 demethylase, a regulator of chromatin state. Exploring the expression network modulated by VRS3 reveals specific interactions, both with other VRS genes and genes involved in stress, hormone and sugar metabolism. We show that combining a vrs3 mutant allele with natural six-rowed alleles of VRS1 and VRS5 leads to increased lateral grain size and greater grain uniformity.The VRS genes of barley control the fertility of the lateral spikelets on the barley inflorescence. Here, Bull et al. show that VRS3 encodes a putative Jumonji C-type histone demethylase that regulates expression of other VRS genes, and genes involved in stress, hormone and sugar metabolism.
Senescence affect different traits of plants, such as the ripening of fruit, number, quality and timing of seed maturation. While senescence is induced by age, growth hormones and different environmental stresses, a highly organized genetic mechanism related to substantial changes in gene expression regulates the process. Only a few genes associated to senescence have been identified in crop plants despite the vital significance of senescence for crop yield. The
The harsh environment on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau gives Tibetan hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare var. nudum) great ability to resist adversities such as drought, salinity, and low temperature, and makes it a good subject for the analysis of drought tolerance mechanism. To elucidate the specific gene networks and pathways that contribute to its drought tolerance, and for identifying new candidate genes for breeding purposes, we performed a transcriptomic analysis using two accessions of Tibetan hulless barley, namely Z772 (drought-tolerant) and Z013 (drought-sensitive). There were more up-regulated genes of Z772 than Z013 under both mild (5439-VS-2604) and severe (7203-VS-3359) dehydration treatments. Under mild dehydration stress, the pathways exclusively enriched in drought-tolerance genotype Z772 included Protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, Wax biosynthesis, and Spliceosome. Under severe dehydration stress, the pathways that were mainly enriched in Z772 included Carbon fixation in photosynthetic organisms, Pyruvate metabolism, Porphyrin and chlorophyll metabolism. The main differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in response to dehydration stress and genes whose expression was different between tolerant and sensitive genotypes were presented in this study, respectively. The candidate genes for drought tolerance were selected based on their expression patterns. The RNA-Seq data obtained in this study provided an initial overview on global gene expression patterns and networks that related to dehydration shock in Tibetan hulless barley. Furthermore, these data provided pathways and a targeted set of candidate genes that might be essential for deep analyzing the molecular mechanisms of plant tolerance to drought stress.
Sucrose transport and partitioning are crucial for seed filling. While many plasma-membrane-localised sucrose transporters (SUT1 family members) have been analysed in seeds, the functions of vacuolar SUT2 members are still obscure. In barley grains, expression of HvSUT1 and HvSUT2 overlap temporally and spatially, suggesting concerted functions to regulate sucrose homeostasis. Using HvSUT2-RNAi plants, we found that grains were also deficient in HvSUT1 expression and seemingly sucrose-limited during mid-to-late grain filling. Transgenic endosperms accumulated less starch and dry weight, although overall sucrose and hexose contents were higher. Comprehensive transcript and metabolite profiling revealed that genes related to glycolysis, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, starch and amino acid synthesis, grain maturation, and abscisic acid signalling were down-regulated together with most glycolytic intermediates and amino acids. Sucrose was increased along the sucrose delivery route in the nucellar projection, the endosperm transfer cells, and the starchy endosperm, indicating that suppressed transporter activity diminished sucrose efflux from vacuoles, which generated sugar deficiency in the cytoplasm. Thus, endosperm vacuoles may buffer sucrose concentrations to regulate homeostasis at grain filling. Transcriptional changes revealed that limited endosperm sucrose initiated sugar starvation responses, such as sugar recycling from starch, hemicelluloses and celluloses together with vacuolar protein degradation, thereby supporting formation of nucleotide sugars. Barley endosperm cells can thus suppress certain pathways to retrieve resources to maintain essential cell functions.
The physiological promotion effect of nanobubble (NB) water on living organisms is still a poorly understood phenomenon which was discovered 1 decade ago. Here, we analyzed the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) embryo transcriptome following the exposure to NB water and low-concentration hydrogen peroxide (H
Co-evolutionary processes in plant-pathogen/herbivore systems indicate that protease inhibitors have a particular value in biotic interactions. However, little is known about the defensive role of their targets, the plant proteases. C1A cysteine proteases are the most abundant enzymes responsible for the proteolytic activity during different processes like germination, development and senescence in plants. To identify and characterize C1A cysteine proteases of barley with a potential role in defense, mRNA and protein expression patterns were analyzed in response to biotics stresses. A barley cysteine protease,
The filamentous fungus Fusarium graminearum, a devastating pathogen of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), produces mycotoxins that pose a health hazard. To investigate the surface interactions of F. graminearum on barley, we focused on barley florets, as the most important infection site leading to grain contamination. The fungus interacted with silica-accumulating cells (trichomes and silica/cork cell pairs) on the host surface. We identified variation in trichome-type cells between two-row and six-row barley, and in the role of specific epidermal cells in the ingress of F. graminearum into barley florets. Prickle-type trichomes functioned to trap conidia and were sites of fungal penetration. Infections of more mature florets supported the spread of hyphae into the vascular bundles, whereas younger florets did not show this spread. These differences related directly to the timing and location of increases in silica content during maturation. Focal accumulation of cellulose in infected paleae of two-row and six-row barley indicated that the response is in part linked to trichome type. Overall, silica-accumulating epidermal cells had an expanded role in barley, serving to trap conidia, provide sites for fungal ingress and initiate resistance responses, suggesting a role for silica in pathogen establishment.
Grain weight and protein content will be reduced and increased, respectively, when barley is subjected to water stress after anthesis, consequently deteriorating the malt quality. However, such adverse impact of water stress differs greatly among barley genotypes. In this study, two Tibetan wild barley accessions and two cultivated varieties differing in water stress tolerance were used to investigate the genotypic difference in metabolic profiles during grain-filling stage under drought condition. Totally, 71 differently accumulated metabolites were identified, including organic acids, amino acids/amines, and sugars/sugar alcohols. Their relative contents were significantly affected by water stress for all genotypes and differed distinctly between the wild and cultivated barleys. The principal component analysis of metabolites indicated that the Tibetan wild barley XZ147 possessed a unique response to water stress. When subjected to water stress, the wild barley XZ147 showed the most increase of β-amylase activity among the four genotypes, as a result of its higher lysine content, less indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) biosynthesis, more stable H
Amylopectin concentration in barley endosperm has important effects on grain quality and end-use. In this study, quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis together with genome-wide association studies (GWAS) were performed to identify markers linked to grain amylopectin content respectively using a doubled haploid (DH) population of 178 lines and a collection of 185 diverse barley germplasms both genotyped by genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS). A stable QTL on chromosome 7H and 11 associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were detected. In the co-localized region, the
Small RNA and degradome sequencing have identified a large number of miRNA-target pairs in plant seeds. However, detailed spatial and temporal studies of miRNA-mediated regulation, which can reflect links between seed development and germination are still lacking. In this study, we extended our investigation on miRNAs-involved gene regulation by a combined analysis of seed maturation and germination in barley. Through bioinformatics analysis of small RNA sequencing data, a total of 1324 known miRNA families and 448 novel miRNA candidates were identified. Of those, 16 known miRNAs with 40 target genes, and three novel miRNAs with four target genes were confirmed based on degradome sequencing data. Conserved miRNA families such as miR156, miR168, miR166, miR167, and miR894 were highly expressed in embryos of developing and germinating seeds. A barley-specific miRNA, miR5071, which was predicted to target an OsMLA10-like gene, accumulated at a high level, suggesting its involvement in defence response during these two developmental stages. Based on target prediction and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis of putative targets, nine highly expressed miRNAs were found to be related to phytohormone signalling and hormone cross-talk. Northern blot and qRT-PCR analysis showed that these miRNAs displayed differential expression patterns during seed development and germination, indicating their different roles in hormone signalling pathways. In addition, we showed that miR393 affected seed development through targeting two genes encoding the auxin receptors TIR1/AFBs in barley, as over-expression of miR393 led to an increased length-width ratio of seeds, whereas target mimic (MIM393)-mediated inhibition of its activity decreased the 1000-grain weight of seeds. Furthermore, the expression of auxin-responsive genes, abscisic acid- and gibberellic acid-related genes was altered in miR393 misexpression lines during germination and early seedling growth. Our work indicates that miRNA-target pairs participate in gene expression regulation and hormone interaction in barley embryo and provides evidence that miR393-mediated auxin response regulation affects grain development and influences gibberellic acid and abscisic acid homeostasis during germination.
Tibetan barley is a staple food for the natives of Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. Drought causes a reduction in barley production. In this study, the full-length cDNA of a gene encoding a syntaxin-associated protein was cloned from the leaves of a drought-resistant variety of barley, "Himalaya 10"; its expression was evaluated during drought stress and rehydration via real-time PCR. The cloned HbSYR1 cDNA sequence was 1300 bp in length, and included an 840-bp open reading frame that encoded 279 amino acids. Sequence analysis predicted the molecular weight of the encoded protein to be 42.08 kDa, with an isoelectric point of 4.98. ScanProsite analysis showed that the HbSYR1 protein contained a SNARE family characteristic motif, five casein kinase II phosphorylation sites, two N-glycosylation sites, four protein kinase C phosphorylation sites, and two N-myristoylation sites. The TMHMM prediction program indicated that the protein does not contain a transmembrane transfer ribbon. According to the SignalP 3.0 server, this protein does not contain a signal peptide, and is not a secretory protein. Instead, this protein was suggested to be localized in the cytoplasm, as predicted by the protein subcellular localization prediction tool (PSORT). Our results indicated that HbSYR was induced by drought stress and rehydration, and was determined to be a key gene for drought resistance and water retention in barley.
The angiosperm embryo and endosperm are limited in space because they grow inside maternal seed tissues. The elimination of cell layers of the maternal seed coat by programmed cell death (PCD) could provide space and nutrition to the filial organs. Using the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seed as a model, we elucidated the role of vacuolar processing enzyme 4 (VPE4) in cereals by using an RNAi approach and targeting the enzymatic properties of the recombinant protein. A comparative characterization of transgenic versus wild-type plants included transcriptional and metabolic profiling, flow cytometry, histology and nuclear magnetic imaging of grains. The recombinant VPE4 protein exhibited legumain and caspase-1 properties in vitro. Pericarp disintegration was delayed in the transgenic grains. Although the VPE4 gene and enzymatic activity was decreased in the early developing pericarp, storage capacity and the size of the endosperm and embryo were reduced in the mature VPE4-repressed grains. The persistence of the pericarp in the VPE4-affected grains constrains endosperm and embryo growth and leads to transcriptional reprogramming, perturbations in signalling and adjustments in metabolism. We conclude that VPE4 expression executes PCD in the pericarp, which is required for later endosperm filling, and argue for a role of PCD in maternal control of seed size in cereals.
CBF (C-repeat binding factor) transcription factors show high expression levels in response to cold; moreover, they play a key regulatory role in cold acclimation processes. Recently, however, more and more information has led to the conclusion that, apart from cold, light-including its spectra-also has a crucial role in regulating
The expression of a barley alanine aminotransferase gene impacts agronomic outcomes in a C3 crop, wheat. The use of nitrogen-based fertilizers has become one of the major agronomic inputs in crop production systems. Strategies to enhance nitrogen assimilation and flux in planta are being pursued through the introduction of novel genetic alleles. Here an Agrobacterium-mediated approach was employed to introduce the alanine aminotransferase from barley (Hordeum vulgare), HvAlaAT, into wheat (Triticum aestivum) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), regulated by either constitutive or root preferred promoter elements. Plants harboring the transgenic HvAlaAT alleles displayed increased alanine aminotransferase (alt) activity. The enhanced alt activity impacted height, tillering and significantly boosted vegetative biomass relative to controls in wheat evaluated under hydroponic conditions, where the phenotypic outcome across these parameters varied relative to time of year study was conducted. Constitutive expression of HvAlaAT translated to elevation in wheat grain yield under field conditions. In sorghum, expression of HvAlaAT enhanced enzymatic activity, but no changes in phenotypic outcomes were observed. Taken together these results suggest that positive agronomic outcomes can be achieved through enhanced alt activity in a C3 crop, wheat. However, the variability observed across experiments under greenhouse conditions implies the phenotypic outcomes imparted by the HvAlaAT allele in wheat may be impacted by environment.
Plant RBOH (RESPIRATORY BURST OXIDASE HOMOLOGS)-type NADPH oxidases produce superoxide radical anions and have a function in developmental processes and in response to environmental challenges. Barley RBOHF2 has diverse reported functions in interaction with the biotrophic powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. Here, we analyzed, in detail, plant leaf level- and age-specific susceptibility of stably RBOHF2-silenced barley plants. This revealed enhanced susceptibility to fungal penetration of young RBOHF2-silenced leaf tissue but strongly reduced susceptibility of older leaves when compared with controls. Loss of susceptibility in old RBOHF2-silenced leaves was associated with spontaneous leaf-tip necrosis and constitutively elevated levels of free and conjugated salicylic acid. Additionally, these leaves more strongly expressed pathogenesis-related genes, both constitutively and during interaction with B. graminis f. sp. hordei. Together, this supports the idea that barley RBOHF2 contributes to basal resistance to powdery mildew infection in young leaf tissue but is required to control leaf cell death, salicylic acid accumulation, and defense gene expression in older leaves, explaining leaf age-specific resistance of RBOHF2-silenced barley plants.
Powdery mildew pathogens colonize over 9500 plant species, causing critical yield loss. The Ascomycete fungus,
Zinc (Zn) deficiency negatively impacts the development and health of plants and affects crop yield. When experiencing low Zn, plants undergo an adaptive response to maintain Zn homeostasis. We provide further evidence for the role of F-group transcription factors, AtbZIP19 and AtbZIP23, in responding to Zn deficiency in Arabidopsis and demonstrate the sensitivity and specificity of this response. Despite their economic importance, the role of F-group bZIPs in cereal crops is largely unknown. Here, we provide new insights by functionally characterizing these in barley (Hordeum vulgare), demonstrating an expanded number of F-group bZIPs (seven) compared to Arabidopsis. The F-group barley bZIPs, HvbZIP56 and HvbZIP62, partially rescue the Zn-dependent growth phenotype and ZIP-transporter gene regulation of an Arabidopsis bzip19-4 bzip23-2 mutant. This supports a conserved mechanism of action in adapting to Zn deficiency. HvbZIP56 localizes to the cytoplasm and nucleus when expressed in Arabidopsis and tobacco. Promoter analysis demonstrates that the barley ZIP transporters that are upregulated under Zn deficiency contain cis Zn-deficiency response elements (ZDREs). ZDREs are also found in particular barley bZIP promoters. This study represents a significant step forward in understanding the mechanisms controlling Zn responses in cereal crops, and will aid in developing strategies for crop improvement.
In the present study, we utilized TALEN- and CRISPR/Cas9-induced mutations to analyze the promoter of the barley phytase gene HvPAPhy_a. The purpose of the study was dual, validation of the PAPhy_a enzyme as the main contributor of the mature grain phytase activity (MGPA), as well as validating the importance of a specific promoter region of the PAPhy_a gene which contains three overlapping cis-acting regulatory elements (GCN4, Skn1 and the RY-element) known to be involved in gene expression during grain filling. The results confirm that the barley PAPhy_a enzyme is the main contributor to the MGPA as grains of knock-out lines show very low MGPA. Additionally, the analysis of the HvPAPhy_a promoter region containing the GCN4/Skn1/RY motif highlights its importance for HvPAPhy_a expression as the MGPA in grains of plant lines with mutations within this motif is significantly reduced. Interestingly, lines with deletions located downstream of the motif show even lower MGPA levels, indicating that the GCN4/SKn1/RY motif is not the only element responsible for the level of PAPhy_a expression during grain maturation. Mutant grains with very low MPGA showed delayed germination as compared to grains of wild type barley. As grains with high levels of preformed phytases would provide more readily available phosphorous needed for a fast germination, this indicates that faster germination may be implicated in the positive selection of the ancient PAPhy gene duplication that lead to the creation of the PAPhy_a gene.
The present study investigated drought-induced changes in proteome profiles of ten DH lines of winter barley, relatively varied in water deficit tolerance level. Additionally, the parameters describing the functioning of the photosynthetic apparatus and the activity of the antioxidative system were analysed. Water deficit (3-week growth in soil with water content reduced to ca. 35%) induced significant changes in leaf water relations and reduced photosynthetic activity, probably due to decreased stomatal conductance. It was associated with changes in protein abundance and altered activity of antioxidative enzymes. From 47 MS-identified proteins discriminating more tolerant from drought-sensitive genotypes, only two revealed distinctly higher while seven revealed lower abundance in drought-treated plants of tolerant DH lines in comparison to sensitive ones. The majority were involved in the dark phase of photosynthesis. Another factor of great importance seems to be the ability to sustain, during drought stress, relatively high activity of enzymes (SOD and CAT) decomposing reactive oxygen species and protecting plant cell from oxidative damages. Low molecular weight antioxidants seem to play less important roles. Our findings also suggest that high tolerance to drought stress in barley is a constitutively controlled trait regulated by the rate of protein synthesis and their activity level. According to our knowledge, this is the first comparative proteomic analysis of drought tolerance performed for the model set of several winter barley doubled haploid (DH) lines. We analysed both the drought impact on the protein pattern of individual winter barley DH lines as well as comparisons between them according to their level of drought tolerance. We have identified 47 proteins discriminating drought-tolerant from drought-sensitive genotypes. The majority was involved in the dark phase of photosynthesis. Another factor of great importance in our opinion seems to be the ability to sustain, during drought stress, relatively high activity of antioxidative enzymes (SOD and CAT) decomposing reactive oxygen species and protecting plant cell from oxidative damages. Our findings also suggest that high tolerance to drought stress in barley is a constitutively-controlled trait regulated by the rate of protein synthesis and their activity level.
Nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN), a precursor of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD), is known to act as a functional molecule in animals, whereas its function in plants is largely unknown. In this study, we found that NMN accumulated in barley cultivars resistant to phytopathogenic fungal Fusarium species. Although NMN does not possess antifungal activity, pretreatment with NMN and related metabolites enhanced disease resistance to Fusarium graminearum in Arabidopsis leaves and flowers and in barley spikes. The NMN-induced Fusarium resistance was accompanied by activation of the salicylic acid-mediated signalling pathway and repression of the jasmonic acid/ethylene-dependent signalling pathways in Arabidopsis. Since NMN-induced disease resistance was also observed in the SA-deficient sid2 mutant, an SA-independent signalling pathway also regulated the enhanced resistance induced by NMN. Compared with NMN, NAD and NADP, nicotinamide pretreatment had minor effects on resistance to F. graminearum. Constitutive expression of the NMNAT gene, which encodes a rate-limiting enzyme for NAD biosynthesis, resulted in enhanced disease resistance in Arabidopsis. Thus, modifying the content of NAD-related metabolites can be used to optimize the defence signalling pathways activated in response to F. graminearum and facilitates the control of disease injury and mycotoxin accumulation in plants.
Drought is considered the main abiotic stress factor that inhibits growth of crop plants (including barley), limiting yield in many regions worldwide. Predicted climate changes show that in future the frequency and intensity of drought events will rise, so crops that are resistant to this stress are in demand. One of the adaptive metabolic responses to drought is the accumulation of proline. The aim of this study was to examine the effect of 10-day drought on tissue dehydration and proline biosynthesis in leaves as well as in roots of barley genotypes of different origin: the Syrian breeding line Cam/B1/CI and the German cultivar Maresi. The involvement of Δ
Starch consists of two types of molecules: amylose and amylopectin. The objective of this study was increase understanding about mechanisms related to starch accumulation in hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) grain by measuring temporal changes in (i) grain amylose and amylopectin content, (ii) starch synthase activity, and (iii) the relative expressions of key starch-related genes. The amylopectin/amylose ratio gradually declined in both Beiqing 6 and Kunlun 12. In both cultivars, the activities of adenosine diphosphate glucose pyrophosphorylase, soluble starch synthase (SSS), granule bound starch synthase (GBSS), and starch branching enzyme (SBE) increased steadily during grain filling, reaching their maximums 20-25 days after anthesis. The activities of SSS and SBE were greater in Ganken 5 than in either Beiqing 6 or Kunlun 12. The expression of GBSS I was greater in Beiqing 6 and Kunlun 12 than in Ganken 5. In contrast, the expression of SSS I, SSS II and SBE I was greater in Ganken 5 than in Beiqing 6 and Kunlun 12. The peak in GBSS I expression was later than that of SSS I, SSS II, SBE IIa and SBE IIb. The GBSS I transcript in Kunlun 12 was expressed on average 90 times more than the GBSS II transcript. The results suggest that SBE and SSS may control starch synthesis at the transcriptional level, whereas GBSS I may control starch synthesis at the post transcriptional level. GBSS I is mainly responsible for amylose synthesis whereas SSS I and SBE II are mainly responsible for amylopectin synthesis in amyloplasts.
Microspore embryogenesis is a process of cell reprogramming, totipotency acquisition and embryogenesis initiation, induced
Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are crucial calcium sensors that play important roles in the regulation of plant growth and developmental processes, as well as protective responses to environmental stress. Here, we identified 28 CDPK genes from barley and cloned 5 new, full-length CDPK genes, MLOC_58648a, MLOC_19618a, MLOC_71733a, AK249361a and MLOC_4965a, using their expressed sequence tags. Phylogenetic and gene structural analyses revealed that the CDPK could be divided into four subgroups. Significant site-specific altered constraints and a high evolutionary rate may have contributed to the functional divergences among CDPK gene subfamilies. Expression profiles of different tissues and developmental stages suggested that several CDPK genes are involved in the functional development of plants. Different expression levels under a variety of abiotic stresses also indicated that the CDPK family underwent functional divergence during long-term evolution. Furthermore, several CDPK genes responded to single treatments and individual CDPK genes responded to multiple treatments, suggesting that barley CDPKs may be involved in mediating cross-talk among different signalling pathways. Our data provide an important foundation for the functional and evolutionary analyses of this important gene family in barley.
Many important genes in agriculture correspond to transcription factors (TFs) that regulate a wide range of pathways from flowering to responses to disease and abiotic stresses. In this study, we identified 5776 TFs in hexaploid wheat (
Increasing the intrinsic nutritional quality of crops, known as biofortification, is viewed as a sustainable approach to alleviate micronutrient deficiencies. In particular, iron deficiency anemia is a major global health issue, but the iron content of staple crops such as wheat (
Pre-harvest sprouting frequently occurs in Triticum aestivum (wheat) and Hordeum vulgare (barley) at the end of the maturity period due to high rainfall, particularly in Asian monsoon areas. Seed dormancy is a major mechanism preventing pre-harvest sprouting in these crops. We identified orthologous sequences of the major Hordeum vulgare (barley) seed dormancy gene Qsd1 in hexaploid wheat cv. Chinese Spring by performing genomic clone sequencing, followed by transcript sequencing. We detected 13 non-synonymous amino acid substitutions among the three sub-genomes of wheat and found that the Qsd1 sequence in the B sub-genome is most similar to that in barley. The Qsd1 sequence in A genome diploid wheat is highly similar to that in the hexaploid A sub-genome. Wheat orthologs of Qsd1 showed closer similarities to barley Qsd1 than did those of other accessions in the DNA database. Like barley Qsd1, all three wheat Qsd1s showed embryo-specific gene expression patterns, indicating that barley and wheat Qsd1 share an orthologous origin. The alignment of four hexaploid wheat cultivars indicated that the amino acid sequences of three spring cultivars, Chinese Spring, Haruyo Koi, and Fielder, are exactly the same in each sub-genome. Only Kitahonami has three amino acid substitutions at the B sub-genome. Kitahonami has a longer seed dormancy period than does Chinese Spring. Sequence polymorphisms between Chiniese Spring and Kitahonami in the B sub-genome may underlie the phenotypic differences in seed dormancy between these hexaploid wheat cultivars.
The complex nature of crop genomes has long prohibited the efficient isolation of agronomically relevant genes. However, recent advances in next-generation sequencing technologies provide new ways to accelerate fine-mapping and gene isolation in crops. We used RNA sequencing of allelic
The recovery of ancient RNA from archeological material could enable the direct study of microevolutionary processes. Small RNAs are a rich source of information because their small size is compatible with biomolecular preservation, and their roles in gene regulation make them likely foci of evolutionary change. We present here the small RNA fraction from a sample of archeological barley generated using high-throughput sequencing that has previously been associated with localized adaptation to drought. Its microRNA profile is broadly similar to 19 globally distributed modern barley samples with the exception of three microRNAs (miRNA159, miRNA319, and miR396), all of which are known to have variable expression under stress conditions. We also found retrotransposon activity to be significantly reduced in the archeological barley compared with the controls, where one would expect the opposite under stress conditions. We suggest that the archeological barley's conflicting stress signals could be the result of long-term adaptation to its local environment.
Twenty-five Dasypyrum villosum 6V#4S-specific PCR markers were developed using transcriptome data and further assigned to comparative genomic maps of wheat chromosome 6A, 6B, and 6D and barley chromosome 6H contrasting their homologous genes in these genomes. Two Dasypyrum villosum accessions, D.v#2 and No. 1026 from England and Russia, respectively, contain Pm21 on chromosome 6V#2S and PmV on chromosome 6V#4S. Both genes confer high resistance to powdery mildew (PM) in wheat. Even though several molecular markers have been developed to detect Pm21 and PmV, only the MBH1 marker can simultaneously detect both Pm21 and PmV. In this study, we first used a high-throughput sequencing technique to obtain the transcriptome sequences of a wheat-D. villosum translocation line, Pm97033-which contains chromosome 6V#4S carrying the PmV locus, under wheat PM pathogen induction. Twenty-five 6V#4S chromosome-specific markers were developed. Three of them were able to clearly distinguish chromosomes 6V#4S and 6V#2S by product size, four amplified the product specific for chromosome 6V#4S only, and the remaining 18 markers identified chromosome 6VS in wheat backgrounds. Two different D. villosum accessions, their derived translocation lines and wheat varieties carrying different chromosome 6VS were identified using these specific markers. The 25 newly developed markers together with the known PM resistance gene Stpk-V were used to construct comparative genomic maps with the homoeologous chromosome arms of wheat and barley. The colinearity of the identified gene sequences amplified by the 25 markers among wheat chromosomes 6A, 6B, and 6D and barley chromosome 6H was not very conserved and interrupted frequently by inversion and insertion. Our markers have potential in marker assisted selection for PM resistance breeding, and for locating other potential important genes and cloning the PmV gene on chromosome 6V#4S.
Barley is the cornerstone of the malting and brewing industry. It is known that 250 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) of the grain are associated with 19 malting-quality phenotypes. However, only a few of the contributing genetic components have been identified. One of these, on chromosome 4H, contains a major malting QTL, QTL2, located near the telomeric region that accounts, respectively, for 28.9% and 37.6% of the variation in the β-glucan and extract fractions of malt. In the current study, we dissected the QTL2 region using an expression- and microsynteny-based approach. From a set of 22 expressed sequence tags expressed in seeds at the malting stage, we identified a candidate gene,
Aphids are phloem feeders that cause large damage globally as pest insects. They induce a variety of responses in the host plant, but not much is known about which responses are promoting or inhibiting aphid performance. Here, we investigated whether one of the responses induced in barley by the cereal aphid, bird cherry-oat aphid (
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are known to be involved in the regulation of gene expression, including that of genes involved in the response to stress. Here, a comparison has been drawn between the miRNA profiles of a drought susceptible, 'Morocco 9-75', and a drought tolerant, 'Yousef', barley cultivars. Leaf water content, shoot dry matter and chlorophyll content decreased in 'Morocco 9-75' more considerably compared with 'Yousef' under drought stress. Furthermore, lower stomatal conductance and higher leaf temperature were observed in 'Morocco 9-75' compared with 'Yousef'. Based on the criteria set for differential abundance, 118 of conserved and novel miRNAs were identified as being responsive to soil water status. Although drought stress resulted in an altered abundance of more miRNAs in 'Morocco 9-75' than in 'Yousef', drought stress was generally associated with an increased miRNA abundance in 'Yousef' and a decreased abundance in 'Morocco 9-75'. An in silico analysis identified 645 genes as putative targets for the drought-responsive miRNAs in 'Yousef' and 3735 in 'Morocco 9-75'. Gene ontology analysis showed that drought stress was associated with the altered abundance of miRNAs targeting growth, development, the juvenile to adult transition and hormone signaling. Some miRNAs which became more abundant in 'Yousef' are thought to target genes intimately involved in development and stress adaptation. In 'Morocco 9-75', drought stress induced changes in the abundance of miRNAs associated with genes affecting growth, development, the juvenile to adult transition and ABA signaling. The data imply that miRNAs may affect the tolerance/sensitivity of barley to drought stress by modulating the expression of a wide set of genes and induction of some physiological changes.
The barley aleurone layer is an established model system for studying phytohormone signalling, enzyme secretion and programmed cell death during seed germination. Most analyses performed on the aleurone layer are end-point assays based on cell extracts, meaning each sample is only analysed at a single time point. By immobilising barley aleurone layer tissue on polydimethylsiloxane pillars in the lid of a multiwell plate, continuous monitoring of living tissue is enabled using multiple non-destructive assays in parallel. Cell viability and menadione reducing capacity were monitored in the same aleurone layer samples over time, in the presence or absence of plant hormones and other effectors. The system is also amenable to transient gene expression by particle bombardment, with simultaneous monitoring of cell death. In conclusion, the easy to handle and efficient experimental setup developed here enables continuous monitoring of tissue samples, parallelisation of assays and single cell analysis, with potential for time course studies using any plant tissue that can be immobilised, for example leaves or epidermal peels.
Vitamin E is a potent lipid-soluble antioxidant and essential nutrient for human health. Tocotrienols are the major form of vitamin E in seeds of most monocots. It has been known that homogentisate geranylgeranyl transferase (HGGT) catalyzes the committed step of tocotrienol biosynthesis. In the present study, we generated transgenic barley overexpressing HvHGGT under endogenous D-Hordein promoter (proHor). Overexpression of HvHGGT increased seed size and seed weight in transgenic barley. Notably, total tocotrienol content increased by 10-15% in seeds of transgenic lines, due to the increased levels of δ-, β-, and γ-tocotrienol, but not α-tocotrienol. Total tocopherol content decreased by 14-18% in transgenic lines, compared to wild type. The antioxidant activity of seeds was determined by using 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), 2,2'-azinobis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS), and lipid peroxidation assays. Compared to wild type, radical scavenging activity of seed extracts was enhanced by 17-18% in transgenic lines. Meanwhile, the lipid peroxidation level was decreased by about 20% in transgenic barley seeds. Taken together, overexpression of HvHGGT enhanced the tocotrienol levels and antioxidant capacity in barley seeds.
Plant diseases are a serious threat to crop production. The informed use of naturally occurring disease resistance in plant breeding can greatly contribute to sustainably reduce yield losses caused by plant pathogens. The Ta-Lr34res gene encodes an ABC transporter protein and confers partial, durable, and broad spectrum resistance against several fungal pathogens in wheat. Transgenic barley lines expressing Ta-Lr34res showed enhanced resistance against powdery mildew and leaf rust of barley. While Ta-Lr34res is only active at adult stage in wheat, Ta-Lr34res was found to be highly expressed already at the seedling stage in transgenic barley resulting in severe negative effects on growth. Here, we expressed Ta-Lr34res under the control of the pathogen-inducible Hv-Ger4c promoter in barley. Sixteen independent barley transformants showed strong resistance against leaf rust and powdery mildew. Infection assays and growth parameter measurements were performed under standard glasshouse and near-field conditions using a convertible glasshouse. Two Hv-Ger4c::Ta-Lr34res transgenic events were analysed in detail. Plants of one transformation event had similar grain production compared to wild-type under glasshouse and near-field conditions. Our results showed that negative effects caused by constitutive high expression of Ta-Lr34res driven by the endogenous wheat promoter in barley can be eliminated by inducible expression without compromising disease resistance. These data demonstrate that Ta-Lr34res is agronomically useful in barley. We conclude that the generation of a large number of transformants in different barley cultivars followed by early field testing will allow identifying barley lines suitable for breeding.
To adapt to cold conditions, barley plants rely on specific mechanisms, which have not been fully understood. In this study, we characterized a novel barley cold-induced gene identified using a PCR-based high coverage gene expression profiling method. The identified gene encodes a small protein that we named CISP1 (Cold-induced Small Protein 1). Homology searches of sequence databases revealed that CISP1 homologs (CISP2 and CISP3) exist in barley genome. Further database analyses showed that the CISP1 homologs were widely distributed in cold-tolerant plants such as wheat and rye. Quantitative reverse transcription PCR analyses indicated that the expression of barley CISP genes was markedly increased in roots exposed to cold conditions. In situ hybridization analyses showed that the CISP1 transcripts were localized in the root tip and lateral root primordium. We also demonstrated that the CISP1 protein bound to RNA. Taken together, these findings indicate that CISP1 and its homologs encoding small RNA-binding proteins may serve as RNA chaperones playing a vital role in the cold adaptation of barley root. This is the first report describing the likely close relationship between root-specific genes and the cold adaptation process, as well as the potential function of the identified genes.
To date, guard cell promoters have been examined in only a few species, primarily annual dicots. A partial segment of the potato (Solanum tuberosum) KST1 promoter (KST1 partial promoter, KST1ppro) has previously been shown to confer guard cell expression in potato, tomato (Solanum lycopersicum), citrus [Troyer citrange (C. sinensis×Poncirus trifoliata)], and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Here, we describe an extensive analysis of the expression pattern of KST1ppro in eight (previously reported, as well as new) species from five different angiosperm families, including the Solanaceae and the Cucurbitaceae, Arabidopsis, the monocot barley (Hordeum vulgare), and two perennial species: grapevine (Vitis vinifera) and citrus. Using confocal imaging and three-dimensional movies, we demonstrate that KST1ppro drives guard cell expression in all of these species, making it the first dicot-originated guard cell promoter shown to be active in a monocot and the first promoter reported to confer guard cell expression in barley and cucumber (Cucumis sativus). The results presented here indicate that KST1ppro can be used to drive constitutive guard cell expression in monocots and dicots and in both annual and perennial plants. In addition, we show that the KST1ppro is active in guard cells shortly after the symmetric division of the guard mother cell and generates stable expression in mature guard cells. This allows us to follow the spatial and temporal distribution of stomata in cotyledons and true leaves.
We report a comprehensive toolkit that enables targeted, specific modification of monocot and dicot genomes using a variety of genome engineering approaches. Our reagents, based on transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) and the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/Cas9 system, are systematized for fast, modular cloning and accommodate diverse regulatory sequences to drive reagent expression. Vectors are optimized to create either single or multiple gene knockouts and large chromosomal deletions. Moreover, integration of geminivirus-based vectors enables precise gene editing through homologous recombination. Regulation of transcription is also possible. A Web-based tool streamlines vector selection and construction. One advantage of our platform is the use of the Csy-type (CRISPR system yersinia) ribonuclease 4 (Csy4) and tRNA processing enzymes to simultaneously express multiple guide RNAs (gRNAs). For example, we demonstrate targeted deletions in up to six genes by expressing 12 gRNAs from a single transcript. Csy4 and tRNA expression systems are almost twice as effective in inducing mutations as gRNAs expressed from individual RNA polymerase III promoters. Mutagenesis can be further enhanced 2.5-fold by incorporating the Trex2 exonuclease. Finally, we demonstrate that Cas9 nickases induce gene targeting at frequencies comparable to native Cas9 when they are delivered on geminivirus replicons. The reagents have been successfully validated in tomato (
Isolated barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) aleurone layers have been widely used as a model system for studying gene expression and hormonal regulation in germinating cereal grains. A serious technological limitation of this approach has been the inability to confidently extrapolate conclusions obtained from isolated tissues back to the whole grain, where the co-location of several living and non-living tissues results in complex tissue-tissue interactions and regulatory pathways coordinated across the multiple tissues. Here we have developed methods for isolating fragments of aleurone, starchy endosperm, embryo, scutellum, pericarp-testa, husk and crushed cell layers from germinated grain. An important step in the procedure involves the rapid fixation of the intact grain to freeze the transcriptional activity of individual tissues while dissection is effected for subsequent transcriptomic analyses. The developmental profiles of 19 611 gene transcripts were precisely defined in the purified tissues and in whole grain during the first 24 h of germination by RNA sequencing. Spatial and temporal patterns of transcription were validated against well-defined data on enzyme activities in both whole grain and isolated tissues. Transcript profiles of genes involved in mitochondrial assembly and function were used to validate the very early stages of germination, while the profiles of genes involved in starch and cell wall mobilisation matched existing data on activities of corresponding enzymes. The data will be broadly applicable for the interrogation of co-expression and differential expression patterns and for the identification of transcription factors that are important in the early stages of grain and seed germination.
Exploring genes with impact on yield-related phenotypes is the preceding step to accomplishing crop improvements while facing a growing world population. A genome-wide association scan on leaf blade area (LA) in a worldwide spring barley collection (Hordeum vulgare L.), including 125 two- and 93 six-rowed accessions, identified a gene encoding the homeobox transcription factor, Six-rowed spike 1 (VRS1). VRS1 was previously described as a key domestication gene affecting spike development. Its mutation converts two-rowed (wild-type VRS1, only central fertile spikelets) into six-rowed spikes (mutant vrs1, fully developed fertile central and lateral spikelets). Phenotypic analyses of mutant and wild-type leaves revealed that mutants had an increased leaf width with more longitudinal veins. The observed significant increase of LA and leaf nitrogen (%) during pre-anthesis development in vrs1 mutants also implies a link between wider leaf and grain number, which was validated from the association of vrs1 locus with wider leaf and grain number. Histological and gene expression analyses indicated that VRS1 might influence the size of leaf primordia by affecting cell proliferation of leaf primordial cells. This finding was supported by the transcriptome analysis of mutant and wild-type leaf primordia where in the mutant transcriptional activation of genes related to cell proliferation was detectable. Here we show that VRS1 has an independent role on barley leaf development which might influence the grain number.
The epidermal patterning factor (EPF) family of secreted signaling peptides regulate the frequency of stomatal development in model dicot and basal land plant species. Here, we identify and manipulate the expression of a barley (
Male sterility is a valuable trait for plant breeding and hybrid seed production. The dominant male-sterile gene Ms2 in common wheat has facilitated the release of hundreds of breeding lines and cultivars in China. Here, we describe the map-based cloning of the Ms2 gene and show that Ms2 confers male sterility in wheat, barley and Brachypodium. MS2 appears as an orphan gene within the Triticinae and expression of Ms2 in anthers is associated with insertion of a retroelement into the promoter. The cloning of Ms2 has substantial potential to assemble practical pipelines for recurrent selection and hybrid seed production in wheat.
Aphids are phloem-feeding insects that cause yield loss on a wide range of crops, including cereals such as barley. Whilst most aphid species are limited to one or few host species, some are able to reproduce on many plants belonging to different families. Interestingly, aphid probing behaviour can be observed on both host and non-host species, indicating that interactions take place at the molecular level that may impact host range. Here, we aimed to gain insight into the interaction of barley with aphid species differing in their ability to infest this crop by analysing transcriptional responses. Firstly, we determined colonization efficiency, settlement and probing behaviour for the aphid species Rhopalosiphum padi, Myzus persicae and Myzus cerasi, which defined host, poor-host and non-host interactions, respectively. Analyses of barley transcriptional responses revealed gene sets differentially regulated upon the different barley-aphid interactions and showed that the poor-host interaction with M. persicae resulted in the strongest regulation of genes. Interestingly, we identified several thionin genes strongly up-regulated upon interaction with M. persicae, and to a lesser extent upon R. padi interaction. Ectopic expression of two of these genes in Nicotiana benthamiana reduced host susceptibility to M. persicae, indicating that thionins contribute to defences against aphids.
The C-Repeat Binding Factors (CBFs) are DNA-binding transcriptional activators that were identified using Arabidopsis thaliana. In barley, Hordeum vulgare, a cluster of CBF genes reside at FROST RESISTANCE-H2, one of two loci having major effects on winter-hardiness. FR-H2 was revealed in a population derived from the winter barley 'Nure' and the spring barley 'Trèmois'. 'Nure' harbors two to three copies of CBF2A and CBF4B as a consequence of tandem iteration of the genomic region encompassing these genes whereas 'Trèmois' harbors single copies, and these copy number differences are associated with their transcript level differences. Here we explore further the relationship between FR-H2 CBF gene copy number and transcript levels using 'Admire', a winter barley accumulating FR-H2 CBF gene transcripts to very high levels, and a group of lines related to 'Admire' through descent. DNA blot hybridization indicated the CBF2A-CBF4B genomic region is present in 7-8 copies in 'Admire' and is highly variable in copy number across the lines related to 'Admire'. At normal growth temperatures transcript levels of CBF12, CBF14, and CBF16 were higher in lines having greater CBF2A-CBF4B genomic region copy numbers than in lines having fewer copy numbers at peak expression level time points controlled by the circadian clock. Chromatin immunoprecipitation indicated CBF2 was at the CBF12 and CBF16 promoters at normal growth temperatures. These data support a scenario in which CBF2A-CBF4B genomic region copy numbers affect expression of other FR-H2 CBFs through a mechansim in which these other FR-H2 CBFs are activated by those in the copy number variable unit.
We identified Rph24 as a locus in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) controlling adult plant resistance (APR) to leaf rust, caused by Puccinia hordei. The locus was previously reported as a quantitative trait locus in barley line ND24260-1 and named qRphND. We crossed ND24260-1 to the leaf-rust-susceptible standard Gus and determined inheritance patterns in the progeny. For the comparative marker frequency analysis (MFA), resistant and susceptible tails of the F
Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is highly susceptible to iron (Fe) deficiency due to low secretion levels of the mugineic acid (MA) family phytosiderophore (PS) 2'-deoxymugineic acid (DMA) into the rhizosphere. The low levels of DMA secreted by rice have proved challenging to measure and, therefore, the pattern of DMA secretion under Fe deficiency has been less extensively studied relative to other graminaceous monocot species that secrete high levels of PS, such as barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Gene expression and metabolite analyses were used to characterise diurnal changes occurring during the Fe deficiency response of rice. Iron deficiency inducible genes involved in root DMA biosynthesis and secretion followed a diurnal pattern with peak induction occurring 3-5 h after the onset of light; a result consistent with that of other Strategy II plant species such as barley and wheat. Furthermore, triple quadrupole mass spectrometry identified 3-5 h after the onset of light as peak time of DMA secretion from Fe-deficient rice roots. Metabolite profiling identified accumulation of amines associated with metal chelation, metal translocation and plant oxidative stress responses occurring with peak induction 10-12 h after the onset of light. The results of this study confirmed that rice shares a similar peak time of Fe deficiency associated induction of DMA secretion compared to other Strategy II plant species but has less prominent daily fluctuations of DMA secretion. It also revealed metabolic changes associated with the remediation of Fe deficiency and mitigation of damage from resulting stress in rice roots. This study complements previous studies on the genetic changes in response to Fe deficiency in rice and constitutes an important advance towards our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the rice Fe deficiency response.
Many crops grow well on neutral or weakly acidic soils. The ability of roots to elongate under high-external pH would be advantageous for the survival of plants on alkaline soil. We found that root elongation was promoted in some plant species in alkaline-nutrient solution. Barley, but not tomato, root growth was maintained in pH 8 nutrient solution. Fe and Mn were absorbed well from the pH 8 nutrient solution by both barley and tomato plants, suggesting that the different growth responses of these two species may not be caused by insolubilization of transition metals. The ability of intact barley and tomato plants to acidify external solution was comparable; in both species, this ability decreased in plants exposed to pH 8 nutrient solution for 1 w. Conversely, cell proliferation and elongation in barley root apices were facilitated at pH 8 as shown by microscopy and cell-cycle-related gene-expression data; this was not observed in tomato. We propose that barley adapts to alkaline stress by increasing root development.
Physiological and molecular biological analysis of the dwarf barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) mutant brachytic 1 (brh1) was conducted. The root responses of brh1 to brassinolide were weaker than those of wild type, but the responses of leaf segments of dark-grown plants were not. Responses of brh1 to gibberellin A
The ascomycete fungal pathogen Fusarium graminearum causes the globally important Fusarium head blight (FHB) disease on cereal hosts, such as wheat and barley. In addition to reducing grain yield, infection by this pathogen causes major quality losses. In particular, the contamination of food and feed with the F. graminearum trichothecene toxin deoxynivalenol (DON) can have many adverse short- and long-term effects on human and animal health. During the last decade, the interaction between F. graminearum and both cereal and model hosts has been extensively studied through transcriptomic analyses. In this review, we present an overview of how such analyses have advanced our understanding of this economically important plant-microbe interaction. From a host point of view, the transcriptomes of FHB-resistant and FHB-susceptible cereal genotypes, including near-isogenic lines (NILs) that differ by the presence or absence of quantitative trait loci (QTLs), have been studied to understand the mechanisms of disease resistance afforded by such QTLs. Transcriptomic analyses employed to dissect host responses to DON have facilitated the identification of the genes involved in toxin detoxification and disease resistance. From the pathogen point of view, the transcriptome of F. graminearum during pathogenic vs. saprophytic growth, or when infecting different cereal hosts or different tissues of the same host, have been studied. In addition, comparative transcriptomic analyses of F. graminearum knock-out mutants with altered virulence have provided new insights into pathogenicity-related processes. The F. graminearum transcriptomic data generated over the years are now being exploited to build a systems level understanding of the biology of this pathogen, with an ultimate aim of developing effective and sustainable disease prevention strategies.
The production of starch is essential for human nutrition and represents a major metabolic flux in the biosphere. The biosynthesis of starch in storage organs like barley endosperm operates via two main pathways using different substrates: starch synthases use ADP-glucose to produce amylose and amylopectin, the two major components of starch, whereas starch phosphorylase (Pho1) uses glucose-1-phosphate (G1P), a precursor for ADP-glucose production, to produce α-1,4 glucans. The significance of the Pho1 pathway in starch biosynthesis has remained unclear. To elucidate the importance of barley Pho1 (HvPho1) for starch biosynthesis in barley endosperm, we analyzed HvPho1 protein production and enzyme activity levels throughout barley endosperm development and characterized structure-function relationships of HvPho1. The molecular mechanisms underlying the initiation of starch granule biosynthesis, that is, the enzymes and substrates involved in the initial transition from simple sugars to polysaccharides, remain unclear. We found that HvPho1 is present as an active protein at the onset of barley endosperm development. Notably, purified recombinant protein can catalyze the de novo production of α-1,4-glucans using HvPho1 from G1P as the sole substrate. The structural properties of HvPho1 provide insights into the low affinity of HvPho1 for large polysaccharides like starch or amylopectin. Our results suggest that HvPho1 may play a role during the initiation of starch biosynthesis in barley.
The emergence of widely virulent pathotypes (e.g., TTKSK in the Ug99 race group) of the stem rust pathogen (Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici) in Africa threatens wheat production on a global scale. Although intensive research efforts have been advanced to address this threat in wheat, few studies have been conducted on barley, even though pathotypes such as TTKSK are known to attack the crop. The main objectives of this study were to assess the vulnerability of barley to pathotype TTKSK and identify possible sources of resistance. From seedling evaluations of more than 1,924 diverse cultivated barley accessions to pathotype TTKSK, more than 95% (1,844) were found susceptible. A similar high frequency (910 of 934 = 97.4%) of susceptibility was found for the wild progenitor (Hordeum vulgare subsp. spontaneum) of cultivated barley. Additionally, 55 barley lines with characterized or putative introgressions from various wild Hordeum spp. were also tested against pathotype TTKSK but none was found resistant. In total, more than 96% of the 2,913 Hordeum accessions tested were susceptible as seedlings, indicating the extreme vulnerability of the crop to the African pathotypes of P. graminis f. sp. tritici. In total, 32 (1.7% of accessions evaluated) and 13 (1.4%) cultivated and wild barley accessions, respectively, exhibited consistently highly resistant to moderately resistant reactions across all experiments. Molecular assays were conducted on these resistant accessions to determine whether they carried rpg4/Rpg5, the only gene complex known to be highly effective against pathotype TTKSK in barley. Twelve of the 32 (37.5%) resistant cultivated accessions and 11 of the 13 (84.6%) resistant wild barley accessions tested positive for a functional Rpg5 gene, highlighting the narrow genetic base of resistance in Hordeum spp. Other resistant accessions lacking the rpg4/Rpg5 complex were discovered in the evaluated germplasm and may possess useful resistance genes. Combining rpg4/Rpg5 with resistance genes from these other sources should provide more durable resistance against the array of different virulence types in the Ug99 race group.
Dehydrins, an important group of late embryogenesis abundant proteins, accumulate in response to dehydration stresses and play protective roles under stress conditions. Herein, phylogenetic analysis of the dehydrin family was performed using the protein sequences of 108 dehydrins obtained from 14 plant species based on plant taxonomy and protein subclasses. Sub-cellular localization and phosphorylation sites of these proteins were also predicted. The protein features distinguishing these dehydrins categories were identified using various attribute weighting and decision tree analyses. The results revealed that the presence of the S motif preceding the K motif (Y
Pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) are detected by plant pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), which gives rise to PAMP-triggered immunity (PTI). We characterized a novel fungal PAMP, Cell Death Inducing 1 (RcCDI1), identified in the Rhynchosporium commune transcriptome sampled at an early stage of barley (Hordeum vulgare) infection. The ability of RcCDI1 and its homologues from different fungal species to induce cell death in Nicotiana benthamiana was tested following agroinfiltration or infiltration of recombinant proteins produced by Pichia pastoris. Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) and transient expression of Phytophthora infestans effectors PiAVR3a and PexRD2 were used to assess the involvement of known components of PTI in N. benthamiana responses to RcCDI1. RcCDI1 was highly upregulated early during barley colonization with R. commune. RcCDI1 and its homologues from different fungal species, including Zymoseptoria tritici, Magnaporthe oryzae and Neurospora crassa, exhibited PAMP activity, inducing cell death in Solanaceae but not in other families of dicots or monocots. RcCDI1-triggered cell death was shown to require N. benthamiana Brassinosteroid insensitive 1-Associated Kinase 1 (NbBAK1), N. benthamiana suppressor of BIR1-1 (NbSOBIR1) and N. benthamiana SGT1 (NbSGT1), but was not suppressed by PiAVR3a or PexRD2. We report the identification of a novel Ascomycete PAMP, RcCDI1, recognized by Solanaceae but not by monocots, which activates cell death through a pathway that is distinct from that triggered by the oomycete PAMP INF1.
Several studies have shown that autopolyploid can tolerate abiotic stresses better than its diploid ancestor. However, the underlying molecular mechanism is poorly known. microRNAs (miRNAs) are small RNAs that regulate the target gene expression post-transcriptionally and play a critical role in the response to abiotic stresses. Duplication of the whole genome can result in the expansion of miRNA families, and the innovative miRNA-target interaction is important for adaptive responses to various environments. We identified new microRNAs induced by genome duplication, that are also associated with stress response and the distinctive microRNA networks in tetraploid and diploid Hordeum bulbosum using high-throughput sequencing. Physiological results showed that autotetraploid Hordeum bulbosum tolerated salt stress better than its diploid. Comparison of miRNAs expression between diploid and tetraploid check (CK) and salt stress revealed that five miRNAs affected by genome doubling were also involved in salt stress response. Of these, miR528b-3p was only detected in the tetraploid, and downregulated under salt stress relative to that in tetraploid CK. Moreover, through target prediction, it was found that miR528b-3p was not only involved in DNA replication and repair but also participated in salt stress response. Finally, by analyzing all the differentially expressed microRNAs and their targets, we also discovered distinguished microRNAs-target regulatory networks in diploid and tetraploid, respectively. Overall, the results demonstrated the critical role of microRNAs in autopolyploid to have better tolerance salt stress.
Autophagy is a highly conserved degradation pathway among eukaryote cells, which can recycle damaged or unwanted cell materials upon encountering stress conditions. As a key component of the Class III PI3K kinase complex, ATG6/Beclin-1 is essential for autophagosome formation. In this study, we isolated a putative HvATG6 gene in barley genome. The protein encoded by HvATG6 shares high sequence identity to ATG6 orthologs in rice and wheat, and has a typical autophagy-specific domain containing segments of repeated β-sheet-α-helix. The expression of HvATG6 protein restored the appearance of autophagosomes in yeast atg6 mutant, indicating that HvATG6 complements the deficiency of yeast ATG6 protein in autophagy. Punctate florescence signals, considered as the PAS for autophagosome initiation, were observed in the cytoplasm of cells when HvATG6-GFP fusion construct was transformed into barley protoplast. Furthermore, the expression of HvATG6 was upregulated by various abiotic stresses including dark, H
WHIRLY1 in barley was isolated as a potential regulator of the senescence-associated gene HvS40. In order to investigate whether the plastid-nucleus-located DNA/RNA-binding protein WHIRLY1 plays a role in regulation of leaf senescence, primary foliage leaves from transgenic barley plants with an RNAi-mediated knockdown of the WHIRLY1 gene were characterized by typical senescence parameters, namely pigment contents, function and composition of the photosynthetic apparatus, as well as expression of selected genes known to be either down- or up-regulated during leaf senescence. When the plants were grown at low light intensity, senescence progression was similar between wild-type and RNAi-W1 plants. Likewise, dark-induced senescence of detached leaves was not affected by reduction of WHIRLY1. When plants were grown at high light intensity, however, senescence was induced prematurely in wild-type plants but was delayed in RNAi-W1 plants. This result suggests that WHIRLY1 plays a role in light sensing and/or stress communication between chloroplasts and the nucleus.
A collection of 112 winter barley varieties (Hordeum vulgare L.) was grown in the field for two years (2008/09 and 2009/10) in northern Italy and grain and straw yields recorded. In the first year of the trial, a severe attack of barley yellow mosaic virus (BaYMV) strongly influenced final performances with an average reduction of ~ 50% for grain and straw harvested in comparison to the second year. The genetic determination (GD) for grain yield was 0.49 and 0.70, for the two years respectively, and for straw yield GD was low in 2009 (0.09) and higher in 2010 (0.29). Cell wall polymers in culms were quantified by means of the monoclonal antibodies LM6, LM11, JIM13 and BS-400-3 and the carbohydrate-binding module CBM3a using the high-throughput CoMPP technique. Of these, LM6, which detects arabinan components, showed a relatively high GD in both years and a significantly negative correlation with grain yield (GYLD). Overall, heritability (H2) was calculated for GYLD, LM6 and JIM and resulted to be 0.42, 0.32 and 0.20, respectively. A total of 4,976 SNPs from the 9K iSelect array were used in the study for the analysis of population structure, linkage disequilibrium (LD) and genome-wide association study (GWAS). Marker-trait associations (MTA) were analyzed for grain yield and cell wall determination by LM6 and JIM13 as these were the traits showing significant correlations between the years. A single QTL for GYLD containing three MTAs was found on chromosome 3H located close to the Hv-eIF4E gene, which is known to regulate resistance to BaYMV. Subsequently the QTL was shown to be tightly linked to rym4, a locus for resistance to the virus. GWAs on arabinans quantified by LM6 resulted in the identification of major QTLs closely located on 3H and hypotheses regarding putative candidate genes were formulated through the study of gene expression levels based on bioinformatics tools.
In plants, organogenesis and specification of cell layers and tissues rely on precise symplastic delivery of regulatory molecules via plasmodesmata. Accordingly, abundance and aperture of plasmodesmata at individual cell boundaries should be controlled by the plant. Recently, studies in Arabidopsis established reactive oxygen species as major regulators of plasmodesmata formation and gating. We show that in a barley mutant deficient in the synthesis of chlorophyll b, the numbers of plasmodesmata in leaves and in the shoot apical meristem are significantly higher than in the corresponding wild type, probably due to redox imbalance in the mutant. The resulting disturbance of symplasmic transport is likely to be the reason for the observed delayed floral transition in these mutants.
The pan-genome of a species is defined as the union of all the genes and non-coding sequences found in all its individuals. However, constructing a pan-genome for plants with large genomes is daunting both in sequencing cost and the scale of the required computational analysis. A more affordable alternative is to focus on the genic repertoire by using transcriptomic data. Here, the software GET_HOMOLOGUES-EST was benchmarked with genomic and RNA-seq data of 19
NADPH:protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase (POR) is a key enzyme for the light-induced greening of etiolated angiosperm plants. It belongs to the 'RED' family of reductases, epimerases and dehydrogenases. All POR proteins characterized so far contain evolutionarily conserved cysteine residues implicated in protochlorophyllide (Pchlide)-binding and catalysis. cDNAs were constructed by site-directed mutagenesis that encode PORB mutant proteins with defined Cys→Ala exchanges. These cDNAs were expressed in transgenic plants of a PORB-deficient knock-out mutant (porB) of Arabidopsis thaliana. Results show that porB plants expressing PORB mutant proteins with Ala substitutions of Cys276 or Cys303 are hypersensitive to high-light conditions during greening. Hereby, failure to assemble higher molecular weight complexes of PORB with its twin isoenzyme, PORA, as encountered with (Cys303→Ala)-PORB plants, caused more severe effects than replacing Cys276 by an Ala residue in the active site of the enzyme, as encountered in (Cys276→Ala)-PORB plants. Our results are consistent with the presence of two distinct pigment binding sites in PORB, with Cys276 establishing the active site of the enzyme and Cys303 providing a second, low affinity pigment binding site that is essential for the assembly of higher molecular mass light-harvesting PORB::PORA complexes and photoprotection of etiolated seedlings. Failure to assemble such complexes provoked photodynamic damage through the generation of singlet oxygen. Together, our data highlight the importance of PORB for Pchlide homoeostasis and greening in Arabidopsis.
The first step of the benzoxazinoid (BX) synthesis pathway is catalyzed by an enzyme with indole-3-glycerol phosphate lyase activity encoded by 3 genes, Bx1, TSA and Igl. A gene highly homologous to maize and wheat Bx1 has been identified in rye. The goal of the study was to analyze the gene and to experimentally verify its role in the rye BX biosynthesis pathway as a rye ortholog of the Bx1 gene. Expression of the gene showed peak values 3 days after imbibition (dai) and at 21 dai it was undetectable. Changes of the BX content in leaves were highly correlated with the expression pattern until 21 dai. In plants older than 21 dai despite the undetectable expression of the analyzed gene there was still low accumulation of BXs. Function of the gene was verified by correlating its native expression and virus-induced silencing with BX accumulation. Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV)-based vectors were used to induce transcriptional (TGS) and posttranscriptional (PTGS) silencing of the analyzed gene. Both strategies (PTGS and TGS) significantly reduced the transcript level of the analyzed gene, and this was highly correlated with lowered BX content. Inoculation with virus-based vectors specifically induced expression of the analyzed gene, indicating up-regulation by biotic stressors. This is the first report of using the BSMV-based system for functional analysis of rye gene. The findings prove that the analyzed gene is a rye ortholog of the Bx1 gene. Its expression is developmentally regulated and is strongly induced by biotic stress. Stable accumulation of BXs in plants older than 21 dai associated with undetectable expression of ScBx1 indicates that the function of the ScBx1 in the BX biosynthesis is redundant with another gene. We anticipate that the unknown gene is a putative ortholog of the Igl, which still remains to be identified in rye.
Abscisic acid (ABA)-driven stomatal regulation reportedly evolved after the divergence of ferns, during the early evolution of seed plants approximately 360 million years ago. This hypothesis is based on the observation that the stomata of certain fern species are unresponsive to ABA, but exhibit passive hydraulic control. However, ABA-induced stomatal closure was detected in some mosses and lycophytes. Here, we observed that a number of ABA signaling and membrane transporter protein families diversified over the evolutionary history of land plants. The aquatic ferns
The degradation of starch in barley grains is a primary step of beer production. The addition of an appropriate amount of gibberellin (GA) promotes the production of fermentable sugars, beneficial to the brewing industry. However, the response of proteomics in germinating barley to GA and abscisic acid (ABA) treatments is not thoroughly understood. In this study, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) proteomics analysis was performed to illustrate the change of proteins in Tibetan wild barley XZ72 and XZ95 under GA and ABA treatments during germination. XZ72 had more proteins upregulated than XZ95 under GA treatment, while under ABA treatments, XZ95 had more proteins upregulated than XZ72. Concerning the proteins involved in energy metabolism under GA treatment, XZ72 had more proteins upregulated than XZ95. Among the 174 proteins related to starch metabolism, 31 proteins related to starch hydrolysis, such as α-amylase, α-glucosidase, and β-fructofuranosidase, showed higher relative abundance in control and GA treatments in XZ72 than in XZ95. Analysis of correlation between proteins and metabolites indicated that higher hydrolase activity is beneficial for the accumulation of fermentable sugars during germination. On the other hand, 26 starch-synthesis-related proteins were upregulated in XZ95 under ABA treatment. It may be suggested that GA-induced proteins act as accelerators of starch degradation, while ABA-induced proteins inhibit starch degradation. The current results showed that XZ72 is highly capable of allocating the starch-hydrolyzing enzymes, which play important roles in starch breakdown.
Amylose synthesis is strictly associated with activity of granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS) enzymes. Among several crops there are cultivars containing starch types with either little or no amylose known as near-waxy or waxy. This (near) amylose-free phenotype is associated with a single locus (waxy) which has been mapped to GBSS-type genes in different crops. Most waxy varieties are a result of either low or no expression of a GBSS gene. However, there are some waxy cultivars where the GBSS enzymes are expressed normally. For these types, single nucleotide polymorphisms have been hypothesized to represent amino-acid substitutions leading to loss of catalytic activity. We here confirm that the HvGBSSIa enzyme from one such waxy barley variety, CDC_Alamo, has a 90% reduction in catalytic activity. We also engineered plants with expression of transgenic C-terminal green fluorescent protein-tagged HvGBSSIa of both the non-waxy type and of the CDC_Alamo type to monitor their subcellular localization patterns in grain endosperm. HvGBSSIa from non-waxy cultivars was found to localize in discrete concentric spheres strictly within starch granules. In contrast, HvGBSSIa from waxy CDC_Alamo showed deficient starch targeting mostly into unknown subcellular bodies of 0.5-3 µm in size, indicating that the waxy phenotype of CDC_Alamo is associated with deficient targeting of HvGBSSIa into starch granules.
UDP-arabinopyranose mutase (UAM) is a plant enzyme which interconverts UDP-arabinopyranose (UDP-Arap; a six-membered sugar) to UDP-arabinofuranose (UDP-Araf; a five-membered sugar). Plant mutases belong to a small gene family called Reversibly Glycosylated Proteins (RGPs). So far, UAM has been identified in Oryza sativa (Rice), Arabidopsis thaliana and Hordeum vulgare (Barley). The enzyme requires divalent metal ions for catalytic activity. Here, the divalent metal ion dependency of UAMs from O. sativa (rice) and A. thaliana have been studied using HPLC-based kinetic assays. It was determined that UAM from these species had the highest relative activity in a range of 40-80μM Mn2+. Excess Mn2+ ion concentration decreased the enzyme activity. This trend was observed when other divalent metal ions were used to test activity. To gain a perspective of the role played by the metal ion in activity, an ab initio structural model was generated based on the UAM amino acid sequence and a potential metal binding region was identified. Based on our results, we propose that the probable role of the metal in UAM is stabilizing the diphosphate of the substrate, UDP-Arap.
Subtilases are one of the largest groups of the serine protease family and are involved in many aspects of plant development including senescence. In wheat, previous reports demonstrate an active participation of two senescence-induced subtilases, denominated P1 and P2, in nitrogen remobilization during whole plant senescence. The aim of the present study was to examine the participation of subtilases in senescence-associated proteolysis of barley leaves while comparing different senescence types. With this purpose, subtilase enzymatic activity, immunodetection with a heterologous antiserum and gene expression of 11 subtilase sequences identified in barley databases by homology to P1 were analyzed in barley leaves undergoing dark-induced or natural senescence at the vegetative or reproductive growth phase. Results showed that subtilase specific activity as well as two inmunoreactive bands representing putative subtilases increased in barley leaves submitted to natural and dark-induced senescence. Gene expression analysis showed that two of the eleven subtilase genes analyzed, HvSBT3 and HvSBT6, were up-regulated in all the senescence conditions tested while HvSBT2 was expressed and up-regulated only during dark-induced senescence. On the other hand, HvSBT1, HvSBT4 and HvSBT7 were down-regulated during senescence and two other subtilase genes (HvSBT10 and HvSBT11) showed no significant changes. The remaining subtilase genes were not detected. Results demonstrate an active participation of subtilases in protein degradation during dark-induced and natural leaf senescence of barley plants both at the vegetative and reproductive stage, and, based on their expression profile, postulate HvSBT3 and HvSBT6 as key components of senescence-associated proteolysis.
In plants, the circadian system controls a plethora of processes, many with agronomic importance, such as photosynthesis, photoprotection, stomatal opening, and photoperiodic development, as well as molecular processes, such as gene expression. It has been suggested that modifying circadian rhythms may be a means to manipulate crops to develop improved plants for agriculture. However, there is very little information on how the clock influences the performance of crop plants. We used a noninvasive, high-throughput technique, based on prompt chlorophyll fluorescence, to measure circadian rhythms and demonstrated that the technique works in a range of plants. Using fluorescence, we analyzed circadian rhythms in populations of wild barley (
Appropriate flowering timing is crucial for plant reproductive success. The florigen, FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT), interacts with 14-3-3 proteins and the bZIP transcription factor FD, functioning at core nodes in multiple flowering pathways. There are two FT homologues, FT1 and FT2, in Brachypodium distachyon. Here we show that FT2 undergoes age-dependent alternative splicing (AS), resulting in two splice variants (FT2α and FT2β). The FT2β-encoded protein cannot interact with FD or 14-3-3s but is able to form heterodimers with FT2α and FT1, thereby interfering with the florigen-mediated assembly of the flowering initiation complex. Notably, transgenic plants overproducing FT2β exhibit delayed flowering, while transgenic plants in which FT2β is silenced by an artificial microRNA display accelerated flowering, demonstrating a dominant-negative role of FT2β in flowering induction. Furthermore, we show that the AS splicing of FT2 is conserved in important cereal crops, such as barley and wheat. Collectively, these findings reveal a novel posttranscriptional mode of FT regulation in temperate grasses.
Albinism in plants is characterized by lack of chlorophyll and results in photosynthesis impairment, abnormal plant development and premature death. These abnormalities are frequently encountered in interspecific crosses and tissue culture experiments. Analysis of albino mutant phenotypes with full or partial chlorophyll deficiency can shed light on genetic determinants and molecular mechanisms of albinism. Here we report analysis of RNA-seq transcription profiling of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) near-isogenic lines, one of which is a carrier of mutant allele of the Alm gene for albino lemma and pericarp phenotype (line i:BwAlm). 1221 genome fragments have statistically significant changes in expression levels between lines i:BwAlm and Bowman, with 148 fragments having increased expression levels in line i:BwAlm, and 1073 genome fragments, including 42 plastid operons, having decreased levels of expression in line i:BwAlm. We detected functional dissimilarity between genes with higher and lower levels of expression in i:BwAlm line. Genes with lower level of expression in the i:BwAlm line are mostly associated with photosynthesis and chlorophyll synthesis, while genes with higher expression level are functionally associated with vesicle transport. Differentially expressed genes are shown to be involved in several metabolic pathways; the largest fraction of such genes was observed for the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle. Finally, de novo assembly of transcriptome contains several transcripts, not annotated in current H. vulgare genome version. Our results provide the new information about genes which could be involved in formation of albino lemma and pericarp phenotype. They demonstrate the interplay between nuclear and chloroplast genomes in this physiological process.
The dwarfing gene sdw1 has been widely used throughout the world to develop commercial barley varieties. There are at least four different alleles at the sdw1 locus. Mutations in the gibberellin 20-oxidase gene (HvGA20ox2) resulted in multiple alleles at the sdw1 locus. The sdw1.d allele from Diamant is due to a 7-bp deletion in exon 1, while the sdw1.c allele from Abed Denso has 1-bp deletion and a 4-bp insertion in the 5' untranslated region. The sdw1.a allele from Jotun resulted from a total deletion of the HvGA20ox2 gene. The structural changes result in lower gene expression in sdw1.d and lack of expression in sdw1.a. There are three HvGA20ox genes in the barley genome. The partial or total loss of function of the HvGA20ox2 gene could be compensated by enhanced expression of its homolog HvGA20ox1and HvGA20ox3. A diagnostic molecular marker was developed to differentiate between the wild-type, sdw1.d and sdw1.a alleles and another molecular marker for differentiation of sdw1.c and sdw1.a. The markers were further tested in 197 barley varieties, out of which 28 had the sdw1.d allele and two varieties the sdw1.a allele. To date, the sdw1.d and sdw1.a alleles have only been detected in the modern barley varieties and lines. The results provided further proof that the gibberellin 20-oxidase gene (HvGA20ox2) is the functional gene of the barley sdw1 mutants. Different deletions resulted in different functional alleles for different breeding purposes. Truncated protein could maintain partial function. Partial or total loss of function of the HvGA20ox2 gene could be compensated by enhanced expression of its homolog HvGA20ox1 and HvGA20ox3.
High-throughput small RNA sequencing has identified several potential aluminum (Al)-responsive microRNAs (miRNAs); however, their regulatory role remains unknown. Here, we identified two miR393 family members in barley, and confirmed two target genes-HvTIR1 and HvAFB-through a modified form of 5'-RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA ends) as well as degradome data analysis. Furthermore, we investigated the biological function of the miR393/target module in root development and its Al stress response. The investigation showed that miR393 affected root growth and adventitious root number by altering auxin sensitivity. Al3+ exposure suppressed miR393 expression in root apex, while overexpression of miR393 counteracted Al-induced inhibition of root elongation and alleviated reactive oxygen species (ROS)-induced cell death. Target mimic (MIM393)-mediated inhibition of miR393's activity enhanced root sensitivity to Al toxicity. We also confirmed that auxin enhanced Al-induced root growth inhibition in barley via application of exogenous 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and the expression of auxin-responsive genes in the root apex was induced upon Al treatment. Overexpression of miR393 attenuated the effect of exogenous NAA on Al-induced root growth inhibition, and down-regulated the expression of auxin-responsive genes under Al stress, implying that miR393 regulates root sensitivity to Al through the alteration of auxin signaling output in barley. Therefore, these data indicate that miR393 acts as an integrator of environmental cues in auxin signaling, and suggest a new strategy to improve plant resistance to Al toxicity.
Ambient temperature has a large impact on reproductive development and grain yield in temperate cereals. However, little is known about the genetic control of development under different ambient temperatures. Here, we demonstrate that in barley (Hordeum vulgare), high ambient temperatures accelerate or delay reproductive development depending on the photoperiod response gene PHOTOPERIOD1 (Ppd-H1) and its upstream regulator EARLY FLOWERING3 (HvELF3). A natural mutation in Ppd-H1 prevalent in spring barley delayed floral development and reduced the number of florets and seeds per spike, while the wild-type Ppd-H1 or a mutant Hvelf3 allele accelerated floral development and maintained the seed number under high ambient temperatures. High ambient temperature delayed the expression phase and reduced the amplitude of clock genes and repressed the floral integrator gene FLOWERING LOCUS T1 independently of the genotype. Ppd-H1-dependent variation in flowering time under different ambient temperatures correlated with relative expression levels of the BARLEY MADS-box genes VERNALIZATION1 (HvVRN1), HvBM3, and HvBM8 in the leaf. Finally, we show that Ppd-H1 interacts with regulatory variation at HvVRN1. Ppd-H1 only accelerated floral development in the background of a spring HvVRN1 allele with a deletion in the regulatory intron. The full-length winter Hvvrn1 allele was strongly down-regulated, and flowering was delayed by high temperatures irrespective of Ppd-H1 Our findings demonstrate that the photoperiodic and vernalization pathways interact to control flowering time and floret fertility in response to ambient temperature in barley.
Leaf senescence is a terminal step in plant growth and development. Considerable information on processes and signals involved in this process has been obtained, although comparatively little is known about leaf senescence in monocotyledonous plants. In particular, little is known about players involved in leaf senescence imposed by a prolonged dark treatment. New information has now been unveiled on dark-induced leaf senescence in a monocot, barley. A close association has been found between ubiquitous polyamines, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and senescence of barley leaves during prolonged darkness. Although polyamines (putrescine, spermidine, and spermine) are absolutely essential for critical cellular functions, including regulation of nucleic acids and protein synthesis, macromolecular structural integrity, and signalling, a strong link between polyamines and dark-induced leaf senescence has been found using barley plant as a model of monocots. Interestingly, Arabidopsis polyamine back-conversion oxidase mutants deficient in the conversion of spermine to spermidine and/or spermidine to putrescine do not occur and have delayed entry into dark-induced leaf senescence. This review summarizes the recent molecular, physiological, and biochemical evidence implicating concurrently polyamines and ethylene in dark-induced leaf senescence and broadening our knowledge on the mechanistic events involved in this important plant death process.
A defining characteristic of grasses, including major cereal crops, is the way in which flowers are arranged on an inflorescence. A new study finds that regulation of hormone levels during development is crucial for determining the arrangement of flowers on a barley inflorescence, opening new doors for increasing grain yield.
RHO (rat sarcoma homologue) GTPases (guanosine triphosphatases) are regulators of downstream transcriptional responses of eukaryotes to intracellular and extracellular stimuli. For plants, little is known about the function of Rho-like GTPases [called RACs (rat sarcoma-related C botulinum substrate) or ROPs (RHO of plants)] in transcriptional reprogramming of cells. However, in plant hormone response and innate immunity, RAC/ROP proteins influence gene expression patterns. The barley RAC/ROP RACB is required for full susceptibility of barley to the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh). We compared the transcriptomes of barley plants either silenced for RACB or over-expressing constitutively activated RACB with and without inoculation with Bgh. This revealed a large overlap of the barley transcriptome during the early response to Bgh and during the over-expression of constitutively activated RACB. Global pathway analyses and stringent analyses of differentially expressed genes suggested that RACB influences, amongst others, the expression of signalling receptor kinases. Transient induced gene silencing of RACB-regulated signalling genes (a leucine-rich repeat protein, a leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase and an S-domain SD1-receptor-like kinase) suggested that they might be involved in RACB-modulated susceptibility to powdery mildew. We discuss the function of RACB in regulating the transcriptional responses of susceptible barley to Bgh.
In order to evaluate whether brassinosteroids (BS) and green light regulate the transcription of plastid genes in a cross-talk with cytokinins (CKs), transcription rates of 12 plastid genes (ndhF, rrn23, rpoB, psaA, psaB, rrn16, psbA, psbD, psbK, rbcL, atpB, and trnE/trnY) as well as the accumulation of transcripts of some photoreceptors (PHYA, CRY2, CRY1A, and CRY1B) and signaling (SERK and CAS) genes were followed in detached etiolated barley leaves exposed to darkness, green or white light ±1μm 24-epibrassinolide (EBL). EBL in the dark was shown to up-regulate the transcription of 12 plastid genes, while green light activated 10 genes and the EBL combined with the green light affected the transcription of only two genes (psaB and rpoB). Green light inhibited the expression of photoreceptor genes, except for CRY1A. Under the green light, EBL practically did not affect the expression of CRY1A, CAS and SERK genes, but it reduced the influence of white light on the accumulation of CAS, CRY1A, CRY1B, and SERK gene transcripts. The total content of BS in the dark and under white light remained largely unchanged, while under green light the total content of BRs (brassinolide, castasterone, and 6-deoxocastasterone) and HBRs (28-homobrassinolide, 28-homocastasterone, and 6-deoxo-28-homocastasterone) increased. The EBL-dependent up-regulation of plastome transcription in the dark was accompanied by a significant decrease in CK deactivation by O-glucosylation. However, no significant effect on the content of active CKs was detected. EBL combined with green light moderately increased the contents of trans-zeatin and isopentenyladenine, but had a negative effect on cis-zeatin. The most significant promotive effect of EBL on active CK bases was observed in white light. The data obtained suggest the involvement of CKs in the BS- and light-dependent transcription regulation of plastid genes.
Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) mapping is often used to identify genetic loci and candidate genes correlated with traits. Although usually a group of genes affect complex traits, genes in most eQTL mapping methods are considered as independent. Recently, some eQTL mapping methods have accounted for correlated genes, used biological prior knowledge and applied these in model species such as yeast or mouse. However, biological prior knowledge might be very limited for most species. We proposed a data-driven prior knowledge guided eQTL mapping for identifying candidate genes. At first, quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis was used to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) markers that are associated with traits. Then co-expressed gene modules were generated and gene modules significantly associated with traits were selected. Prior knowledge from QTL mapping was used for eQTL mapping on the selected modules. We tested and compared prior knowledge guided eQTL mapping to the eQTL mapping with no prior knowledge in a simulation study and two barley stem rust resistance case studies. The results in simulation study and real barley case studies show that models using prior knowledge outperform models without prior knowledge. In the first case study, three gene modules were selected and one of the gene modules was enriched with defense response Gene Ontology (GO) terms. Also, one probe in the gene module is mapped to Rpg1, previously identified as resistance gene to stem rust. In the second case study, four gene modules are identified, one gene module is significantly enriched with defense response to fungus and bacterium. Prior knowledge guided eQTL mapping is an effective method for identifying candidate genes. The case studies in stem rust show that this approach is robust, and outperforms methods with no prior knowledge in identifying candidate genes.
Alternative splicing (AS) is a regulated mechanism that generates multiple transcripts from individual genes. It is widespread in eukaryotic genomes and provides an effective way to control gene expression. At low temperatures, AS regulates Arabidopsis clock genes through dynamic changes in the levels of productive mRNAs. We examined AS in barley clock genes to assess whether temperature-dependent AS responses also occur in a monocotyledonous crop species. We identify changes in AS of various barley core clock genes including the barley orthologues of Arabidopsis AtLHY and AtPRR7 which showed the most pronounced AS changes in response to low temperature. The AS events modulate the levels of functional and translatable mRNAs, and potentially protein levels, upon transition to cold. There is some conservation of AS events and/or splicing behaviour of clock genes between Arabidopsis and barley. In addition, novel temperature-dependent AS of the core clock gene HvPPD-H1 (a major determinant of photoperiod response and AtPRR7 orthologue) is conserved in monocots. HvPPD-H1 showed a rapid, temperature-sensitive isoform switch which resulted in changes in abundance of AS variants encoding different protein isoforms. This novel layer of low temperature control of clock gene expression, observed in two very different species, will help our understanding of plant adaptation to different environments and ultimately offer a new range of targets for plant improvement.
Hulless barley, with its unique nutritional value and potential health benefits, has increasingly attracted attentions in recent years. However, the transcription dynamics during hulless barley grain development is not well understood. In the present study, we investigated the transcriptome changes during barley grain development using Illumina paired-end RNA-sequencing. Two datasets of the developing grain transcriptomes from two barley landraces with the differential seed starch synthesis traits were generated, and comparative transcriptome approach in both genotypes was performed. The results showed that 38 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were found co-modulated in both genotypes during the barley grain development. Of those, the proteins encoded by most of those DGEs were found, such as alpha-amylase-related proteins, lipid-transfer protein, homeodomain leucine zipper (HD-Zip), NUCLEAR FACTOR-Y, subunit B (NF-YBs), as well as MYB transcription factors. More interestingly, two genes Hvulgare_GLEAN_10012370 and Hvulgare_GLEAN_10021199 encoding SuSy, AGPase (Hvulgare_GLEAN_10033640 and Hvulgare_GLEAN_10056301), as well as SBE2b (Hvulgare_GLEAN_10018352) were found to significantly contribute to the regulatory mechanism during grain development in both genotypes. Moreover, six co-expression modules associated with specific biological processes or pathways (M1 to M6) were identified by consensus co-expression network. Significantly enriched pathways of those module genes showed difference in both genotypes. These results will expand our understanding of the complex molecular mechanism of starch synthesis during barley grain development.
Powdery mildew causes severe yield losses in barley production worldwide. Although many resistance genes have been described, only a few have already been cloned. A strong QTL (quantitative trait locus) conferring resistance to a wide array of powdery mildew isolates was identified in a Spanish barley landrace on the long arm of chromosome 7H. Previous studies narrowed down the QTL position, but were unable to identify candidate genes or physically locate the resistance. In this study, the exome of three recombinant lines from a high-resolution mapping population was sequenced and analyzed, narrowing the position of the resistance down to a single physical contig. Closer inspection of the region revealed a cluster of closely related NBS-LRR (nucleotide-binding site-leucine-rich repeat containing protein) genes. Large differences were found between the resistant lines and the reference genome of cultivar Morex, in the form of PAV (presence-absence variation) in the composition of the NBS-LRR cluster. Finally, a template-guided assembly was performed and subsequent expression analysis revealed that one of the new assembled candidate genes is transcribed. In summary, the results suggest that NBS-LRR genes, absent from the reference and the susceptible genotypes, could be functional and responsible for the powdery mildew resistance. The procedure followed is an example of the use of NGS (next-generation sequencing) tools to tackle the challenges of gene cloning when the target gene is absent from the reference genome.
In Arabidopsis, NPR1 is a key transcriptional coregulator of systemic acquired resistance. Upon pathogen challenge, NPR1 translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus, in which it interacts with TGA-bZIP transcription factors to activate the expression of several pathogenesis-related (PR) genes. In a screen of a yeast two-hybrid library from wheat leaves infected with Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici, we identified a conserved rust protein that interacts with wheat NPR1 and named it PNPi (for Puccinia NPR1 interactor). PNPi interacts with the NPR1/NIM1-like domain of NPR1 via its C-terminal DPBB_1 domain. Using bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays, we detected the interaction between PNPi and wheat NPR1 in the nucleus of Nicotiana benthamiana protoplasts. A yeast three-hybrid assay showed that PNPi interaction with NPR1 competes with the interaction between wheat NPR1 and TGA2.2. In barley transgenic lines overexpressing PNPi, we observed reduced induction of multiple PR genes in the region adjacent to Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 infection. Based on these results, we hypothesize that PNPi has a role in manipulating wheat defense response via its interactions with NPR1.
Determining the role of plant secondary metabolites in stress conditions is problematic due to the diversity of their structures and the complexity of their interdependence with different biological pathways. Correlation of metabolomic data with the genetic background provides essential information about the features of metabolites. LC-MS analysis of leaf metabolites from 100 barley recombinant inbred lines (RILs) revealed that 98 traits among 135 detected phenolic and terpenoid compounds significantly changed their level as a result of drought stress. Metabolites with similar patterns of change were grouped in modules, revealing differences among RILs and parental varieties at early and late stages of drought. The most significant changes in stress were observed for ferulic and sinapic acid derivatives as well as acylated glycosides of flavones. The tendency to accumulate methylated compounds was a major phenomenon in this set of samples. In addition, the polyamine derivatives hordatines as well as terpenoid blumenol C derivatives were observed to be drought related. The correlation of drought-related compounds with molecular marker polymorphisms resulted in the definition of metabolomic quantitative trait loci in the genomic regions of single-nucleotide polymorphism 3101-111 and simple sequence repeat Bmag0692 with multiple linkages to metabolites. The associations pointed to genes related to the defence response and response to cold, heat and oxidative stress, but not to genes related to biosynthesis of the compounds. We postulate that the significant metabolites have a role as antioxidants, regulators of gene expression and modulators of protein function in barley during drought.
Hordeum vulgare L. yellow stripe 1 (HvYS1) is a selective transporter of Fe(III)-phytosiderophores in barley that is responsible for iron acquisition from the soil. In contrast, maize Zea mays, yellow stripe 1 (ZmYS1) possesses broad substrate specificity. In this study, a quantitative evaluation of the transport activities of HvYS1 and ZmYS1 chimera proteins revealed that the seventh extracellular membrane loop is essential for substrate specificity. The loop peptides of both transporters were prepared and analysed by circular dichroism and NMR. The spectra revealed a higher propensity for α-helical conformation of the HvYS1 loop peptide and a largely disordered structure for that of ZmYS1. These structural differences are potentially responsible for the substrate specificities of the transporters.
We report plausible disease resistance mechanisms induced by barley resistant genotype CI89831 against Fusarium head blight (FHB) based on metabolo-transcriptomics approach. We identified HvCERK1 as a candidate gene for FHB resistance, which is functional in resistant genotype CI9831 but non-functional in susceptible cultivars H106-371 and Zhedar-2. For the first time, we were able to show a hierarchy of regulatory genes that regulated downstream biosynthetic genes that eventually produced resistance related metabolites that reinforce the cell walls to contain the pathogen progress in plant. The HvCERK1 can be used for replacing in susceptible commercial cultivars, if non-functional, based on genome editing. Fusarium head blight (FHB) management is a great challenge in barley and wheat production worldwide. Though barley genome sequence and advanced omics technologies are available, till date none of the resistance mechanisms has been clearly deciphered. Hence, this study was aimed at identifying candidate gene(s) and elucidating resistance mechanisms induced by barley resistant genotype CI9831 based on integrated metabolomics and transcriptomics approach. Following Fusarium graminearum infection, we identified accumulation of specific set of induced secondary metabolites, belonging to phenylpropanoid, hydroxycinnamic acid (HCAA) and jasmonic acid pathways, and their biosynthetic genes. In association with these, receptor kinases such as chitin elicitor receptor kinase (HvCERK1) and protein kinases such as MAP kinase 3 (HvMPK3) and MAPK substrate 1 (HvMKS1), and transcription factors such as HvERF1/5, HvNAC42, HvWRKY23 and HvWRKY70 were also found upregulated with high fold change. Polymorphism studies across three barley genotypes confirmed the presence of mutations in HvCERK1 gene in two susceptible genotypes, isolating this gene as a potential candidate for FHB resistance. Further, the silencing of functional HvCERK1 gene in the resistant genotype CI9831, followed by gene expression and metabolite analysis revealed its role as an elicitor recognition receptor that triggered downstream regulatory genes, which in turn, regulated downstream metabolic pathway genes to biosynthesize resistance related (RR) metabolites to contain the pathogen to spikelet infection. A putative model on metabolic pathway regulation is proposed.
Plant architecture has clear agronomic and economic implications for crops such as wheat and barley, as it is a critical factor for determining grain yield. Despite this, only limited molecular information is available about how grain-bearing inflorescences, called spikes, are formed and maintain their regular, distichous pattern. Here we elucidate the molecular and hormonal role of Six-rowed spike 2 (Vrs2), which encodes a SHORT INTERNODES (SHI) transcriptional regulator during barley inflorescence and shoot development. We show that Vrs2 is specifically involved in floral organ patterning and phase duration by maintaining hormonal homeostasis and gradients during normal spike development and similarly influences plant stature traits. Furthermore, we establish a link between the SHI protein family and sucrose metabolism during organ growth and development that may have implications for deeper molecular insights into inflorescence and plant architecture in crops.
Schizaphis graminum (green bug; GB) and Sipha flava (yellow sugarcane aphid; YSA) are two cereal aphid species with broad host ranges capable of establishing on sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and several switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) cultivars. Switchgrass and sorghum are staple renewable bioenergy crops that are vulnerable to damage by aphids, therefore, identifying novel targets to control aphids has the potential to drastically improve yields and reduce losses in these bioenergy crops. Despite the wealth of genomic and transcriptomic information available from a closely related model aphid species, the pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum), similar genomic information, including the identification of small RNAs, is still limited for GB and YSA. Deep sequencing of miRNAs expressed in GB and YSA was conducted and 72 and 56 miRNA candidates (including 14 and eight novel) were identified, respectively. Of the identified miRNAs, 45 were commonly expressed in both aphid species. Further, plant derived miRNAs were also detected in both aphid samples, including 13 (eight known and five novel) sorghum miRNAs and three (novel) barley miRNAs. In addition, potential aphid gene targets for the host plant-derived miRNAs were predicted. The establishment of miRNA repertoires in these two aphid species and the detection of plant-derived miRNA in aphids will ultimately lead to a better understanding of the role of miRNAs in regulating gene expression networks in these two aphids and the potential roles of plant miRNAs in mediating plant-insect interactions.
The abscisic acid (ABA) signaling pathway is known as one of the most important signaling pathways in plants and is mediated by multiple regulators. The genes SnRK2, PYR/PYL/RCAR, and ABF are relevant to both ABA-dependent and -independent signaling pathways. To elucidate the profile of these genes from Tibetan hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum Hook. f.), we collected available sequences from RNA-Seq data, together with NCBI data from five other model plant species (Arabidopsis thaliana, Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa, Populus trichocarpa, and Sorghum bicolor). Gene trees of SnRK2, PYR/PYL/RCAR, and ABF were constructed using a neighbor joining (NJ) method. For all genes, we identified a dominant group in which all six species were represented. Three, four, and five groups were found in the NJ trees of SnRK2, PYR/PYL/RCAR, and ABF, respectively. For each gene, Tibetan hulless barley was divided into three groups. Our analyses indicated that Tibetan hulless barley was associated with B. distachyon. The NJ cluster analysis also suggested that Tibetan hulless barley was affiliated with S. bicolor (SnRK2), A. thaliana (PYR/PYL/RCAR), and O. sativa (ABF). These results illustrate a diverse expression of genes SnRK2, PYR/PYL/RCAR, and ABF, and suggest a relationship among the six species studied. Collectively, our characterization of the three components of the ABA signaling pathway may contribute to improve stress tolerance in Tibetan hulless barley.
Repetitive DNA is widespread in eukaryotic genomes, in some cases making up more than 80% of the total. SSRs are a type of repetitive DNA formed by short motifs repeated in tandem arrays. In some species, SSRs may be organized into long stretches, usually associated with the constitutive heterochromatin. Variation in repeats can alter the expression of genes, and changes in the number of repeats have been linked to certain human diseases. Unfortunately, the molecular characterization of these repeats has been hampered by technical limitations related to cloning and sequencing. Indeed, most sequenced genomes contain gaps owing to repetitive DNA-related assembly difficulties. This paper reports an alternative method for sequencing of long stretches of repetitive DNA based on the combined use of 1) a linear vector to stabilize the cloning process, and 2) the use of exonuclease III for obtaining progressive deletions of SSR-rich fragments. This strategy allowed the sequencing of a fragment containing a stretch of 6.2 kb of continuous SSRs. To demonstrate that this procedure can sequence other kinds of repetitive DNA, it was used to examine a 4.5 kb fragment containing a cluster of 15 repeats of the 5S rRNA gene of barley.
Proteins are the most abundant component of the cell nucleus, where they perform a plethora of functions, including the assembly of long DNA molecules into condensed chromatin, DNA replication and repair, regulation of gene expression, synthesis of RNA molecules and their modification. Proteins are important components of nuclear bodies and are involved in the maintenance of the nuclear architecture, transport across the nuclear envelope and cell division. Given their importance, the current poor knowledge of plant nuclear proteins and their dynamics during the cell's life and division is striking. Several factors hamper the analysis of the plant nuclear proteome, but the most critical seems to be the contamination of nuclei by cytosolic material during their isolation. With the availability of an efficient protocol for the purification of plant nuclei, based on flow cytometric sorting, contamination by cytoplasmic remnants can be minimized. Moreover, flow cytometry allows the separation of nuclei in different stages of the cell cycle (G1, S, and G2). This strategy has led to the identification of large number of nuclear proteins from barley (Hordeum vulgare), thus triggering the creation of a dedicated database called UNcleProt, http://barley.gambrinus.ueb.cas.cz/ .
MicroRNAs are 19- to 24-nt-long single-stranded RNAs that are crucial regulators of gene expression which control plant development and response to environmental cues. We have analyzed microtranscriptomes of five barley developmental stages. Generally, during the barley development, miR168-3p and miR1432-5p levels increase while the 5'U-miR156-5p level decreases (with exception for the 2-week-old barley). We have identified two miR156-5p izomiRs (called 5'U-miR156-5p [20 nt] and 5'UU-miR156-5p [21 nt]), which were expressed differently during barley development. The 5' U-miR156-5p level decreased in 3-week-, 6-week-, and 68-day-old barley, when compared to the 1-week-old plants. Meanwhile, the 5' UU-miR156-5p level increased significantly in the 68-day-old barley plants. Moreover, only the 5' U-miR156 isomiR recognizes and guides unique transcription factor mRNAs from the Squamosa Promoter Binding Protein-Like (SPL) family. We identified many non-canonical microRNAs with changed expression levels during the barley development. Here, we present the profiles of microRNA expression characteristics for particular barley developmental stages. These analyses are accompanied by the experimental degradome analysis of miRNA targets.
Disease-resistance genes encoding intracellular nucleotide-binding domain and leucine-rich repeat proteins (NLRs) are key components of the plant innate immune system and typically detect the presence of isolate-specific avirulence (AVR) effectors from pathogens. NLR genes define the fastest-evolving gene family of flowering plants and are often arranged in gene clusters containing multiple paralogs, contributing to copy number and allele-specific NLR variation within a host species. Barley mildew resistance locus a (Mla) has been subject to extensive functional diversification, resulting in allelic resistance specificities each recognizing a cognate, but largely unidentified, AVR
Several diseases threaten cereal production, and fungicides are therefore widely used. Biological control is an environmentally friendly alternative, and the fungus Clonostachys rosea is a versatile antagonist, effective against several plant diseases. We studied the ability of C. rosea to control barley leaf pathogens and the mechanisms behind the inhibition, emphasising induced resistance. Under controlled conditions, spray application of C. rosea isolate IK726 to barley leaves reduced Bipolaris sorokiniana severity by up to 70% when applied 24 h before or simultaneously with the pathogen, whereas application 24 h after the pathogen had no effect. IK726 also reduced the sporulation capacity of B. sorokiniana. Microscopy of B. sorokiniana infection revealed that IK726 primarily inhibited conidial germination and appressorium formation, while further pathogen development and host defence reactions (papillae and fluorescent epidermal cells) were unaffected. Likewise, expression of defence-related genes encoding PR proteins was unaltered. In addition to B. sorokiniana, IK726 also reduced infection by Drechslera teres and Rhynchosporium commune. C. rosea acted as a protectant against three barley leaf pathogens. B. sorokiniana was directly inhibited by IK726, whereas induced resistance appeared not to be involved. Quantitative microscopy is a powerful tool for elucidating mechanisms involved in disease control. © 2016 Society of Chemical Industry.
MicroRNAs are short molecules of 21-24 nt in length. They are present in all eukaryotic organisms and regulate gene expression by guiding posttranscriptional silencing of mRNAs. In plants, they are key players in signal transduction, growth and development, and in response to abiotic and biotic stresses. Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is an economically important monocotyledonous crop plant. Drought is the world's main cause of loss in cereal production. We have constructed a high-throughput Real-Time RT-qPCR platform for parallel determination of 159 barley primary microRNAs' levels. The platform was tested for two drought-and-rehydration-treated barley genotypes (Rolap and Sebastian). We have determined changes in the expression of primary microRNAs responding to mild drought, severe drought, and rehydration. Based on the results obtained, we conclude that alteration in the primary microRNA expression is relative to the stress's intensity. Mild drought and rehydration mostly decrease the pri-miRNA levels in both of the tested genotypes. Severe drought mainly induces the primary microRNA expression. The main difference between the genotypes tested was a much-stronger induction of pri-miRNAs in Rolap encountering severe drought. The primary microRNAs respond dynamically to mild drought, severe drought, and rehydration treatments. We propose that some of the individual pri-miRNAs could be used as drought stress or rehydration markers. The usage of the platform in biotechnology is also postulated.
Meeting the increasing food and energy demands of a growing population will require the development of ground-breaking strategies that promote sustainable plant production. Host-induced gene silencing has shown great potential for controlling pest and diseases in crop plants. However, while delivery of inhibitory noncoding double-stranded (ds)RNA by transgenic expression is a promising concept, it requires the generation of transgenic crop plants which may cause substantial delay for application strategies depending on the transformability and genetic stability of the crop plant species. Using the agronomically important barley-Fusarium graminearum pathosystem, we alternatively demonstrate that a spray application of a long noncoding dsRNA (791 nt CYP3-dsRNA), which targets the three fungal cytochrome P450 lanosterol C-14α-demethylases, required for biosynthesis of fungal ergosterol, inhibits fungal growth in the directly sprayed (local) as well as the non-sprayed (distal) parts of detached leaves. Unexpectedly, efficient spray-induced control of fungal infections in the distal tissue involved passage of CYP3-dsRNA via the plant vascular system and processing into small interfering (si)RNAs by fungal DICER-LIKE 1 (FgDCL-1) after uptake by the pathogen. We discuss important consequences of this new finding on future RNA-based disease control strategies. Given the ease of design, high specificity, and applicability to diverse pathogens, the use of target-specific dsRNA as an anti-fungal agent offers unprecedented potential as a new plant protection strategy.
Barley grain at maturity can have yellow, purple, blue, and black pigmentations which are suggested to play a protective role under stress conditions. The first three types of the colors are caused by phenolic compounds flavonoids; the last one is caused by phytomelanins, oxidized and polymerized phenolic compounds. Although the genetic basis of the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway in barley has been thoroughly studied, there is no data yet on its regulation in purple and black barley grains. In the current study, genetic model of Hordeum vulgare 'Bowman' near-isogenic lines (NILs) was used to investigate the regulation of the flavonoid biosynthesis in white, purple, and black barley grains. Microsatellite genotyping revealed donor segments in the purple- and black-grained lines on chromosomes 2H (in region of the Ant2 gene determining purple color of grains) and 1H (in region of the Blp gene determining black lemma and pericarp), respectively. The isolated dominant Ant2 allele of the purple-grained line has high level of sequence similarity with the recessive Bowman's ant2 in coding region, whereas an insertion of 179 bp was detected in promoter region of ant2. This structural divergence between Ant2 and ant2 alleles may underlie their different expression in grain pericarp: Bowman's Ant2 is not transcribed, whereas it was up-regulated in the purple-grained line with coordinately co-expressed flavonoid biosynthesis structural genes (Chs, Chi, F3h, F3'h, Dfr, Ans). This led to total anthocyain content increase in purple-grained line identified by ultra-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Collectively, these results proved the regulatory function of the Ant2 gene in anthocyanin biosynthesis in barley grain pericarp. In the black-grained line, the specific transcriptional regulation of the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway genes was not detected, suggesting that flavonoid pigments are not involved in development of black lemma and pericarp trait.
ASYMMETRIC LEAVES2/LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES (AS2/LOB) genes are a family of plant specific transcription factors, which play an important role in the regulation of plant lateral organ development and metabolism. However, a genome-wide analysis of the AS2/LOB gene family is still not available for barley. In the present study, 24 AS2-like (ASL)/LOB domain (LBD) genes were identified based on the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) genome sequence. A phylogenetic tree of ASL/LBD proteins from barley, Arabidopsis, maize, and rice was constructed. The ASL/LBD genes were classified into two classes, class I and class II, which were divided into five and two subgroups, respectively. Genes homologous in barley and Arabidopsis were analyzed. In addition, the structure and chromosomal locations of the genes were analyzed. Expression profiles indicated that barley HvASL/LBD genes exhibit a variety of expression patterns, suggesting that they are involved in various aspects of physiological and developmental processes. This genome-wide analysis of the barley AS2/LOB gene family contributes to our understanding of the functions of the AS2/LOB gene family.
The continued growth in world population necessitates increases in both the quantity and quality of agricultural production. Triticeae members, particularly wheat and barley, make an important contribution to world food reserves by providing rich sources of carbohydrate and protein. These crops are grown over diverse production environments that are characterized by a range of environmental or abiotic stresses. Abiotic stresses such as drought, heat, salinity, or nutrient deficiencies and toxicities cause large yield losses resulting in economic and environmental damage. The negative effects of abiotic stresses have increased at an alarming rate in recent years and are predicted to further deteriorate due to climate change, land degradation, and declining water supply. New technologies have provided an important tool with great potential for improving crop tolerance to the abiotic stresses: microRNAs (miRNAs). miRNAs are small regulators of gene expression that act on many different molecular and biochemical processes such as development, environmental adaptation, and stress tolerance. miRNAs can act at both the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels, although post-transcriptional regulation is the most common in plants where miRNAs can inhibit the translation of their mRNA targets via complementary binding and cleavage. To date, expression of several miRNA families such as miR156, miR159, and miR398 has been detected as responsive to environmental conditions to regulate stress-associated molecular mechanisms individually and/or together with their various miRNA partners. Manipulation of these miRNAs and their targets may pave the way to improve crop performance under several abiotic stresses. Here, we summarize the current status of our knowledge on abiotic stress-associated miRNAs in members of the Triticeae tribe, specifically in wheat and barley, and the miRNA-based regulatory mechanisms triggered by stress conditions. Exploration of further miRNA families together with their functions under stress will improve our knowledge and provide opportunities to enhance plant performance to help us meet global food demand.
Various small RNA (sRNA) sizes and varieties have been identified, but their relationship as well as relationship with their origins and allocations have not been well understood or investigated. By comparing sRNAs generated from two barley cultivars, Golden Promise (GP) and Pallas, we identified that the generation of different sizes and types of sRNAs in barley was locus-, chromosome- and/or cultivar-dependent. 20-nt sRNAs mainly comprising miRNAs and chloroplast-derived sRNAs were significantly over-expressed in Pallas vs. GP on chromosomes 3H and 6H. MiRNAs-enriched 21-nt sRNAs were significantly over-expressed in Pallas vs. GP only on chromosome 4H. On chromosome 5H this size of sRNAs was significantly under-expressed in Pallas, so were 22-nt sRNAs mainly comprising miRNAs and repeat-derived sRNAs. 24-nt sRNAs mostly derived from repeats were evenly distributed in all chromosomes and expressed similarly between GP and Pallas. Unlike other sizes of sRNAs, 24-nt sRNAs were little conserved in other plant species. Abundant sRNAs were mostly generated from 3' terminal regions of chromosome 1H and 5' terminal regions of chromosome 5H. Over-expressed miRNAs in GP vs. Pallas primarily function in stress responses and iron-binding. Our study indicates that 23-24-nt sRNAs may be linked to repressive chromatin modifications and function in genome stability while 20-21-nt sRNAs may be important for the cultivar specificity. This study provides a novel insight into the mechanism of sRNA expression and function in barley.
The Natural Resistance Associated Macrophage Protein (Nramp) represents a transporter family for metal ions in all organisms. Here, we functionally characterized a member of Nramp family in barley (Hordeum vulgare), HvNramp5. This member showed different expression patterns, transport substrate specificity, and cellular localization from its close homolog in rice (Oryza sativa), OsNramp5, although HvNramp5 was also localized to the plasma membrane. HvNramp5 was mainly expressed in the roots and its expression was not affected by Cd and deficiency of Zn, Cu, and Mn, but slightly up-regulated by Fe deficiency. Spatial expression analysis showed that the expression of HvNramp5 was higher in the root tips than that in the basal root regions. Furthermore, analysis with laser microdissection revealed higher expression of HvNramp5 in the outer root cell layers. HvNramp5 showed transport activity for both Mn
Barley is one of the founder crops of Old world agriculture and has become the fourth most important cereal worldwide. Information on genome-scale DNA polymorphisms allows elucidating the evolutionary history behind domestication, as well as discovering and isolating useful genes for molecular breeding. Deep transcriptome sequencing enables the exploration of sequence variations in transcribed sequences; such analysis is particularly useful for species with large and complex genomes, such as barley. In this study, we performed RNA sequencing of 20 barley accessions, comprising representatives of several biogeographic regions and a wild ancestor. We identified 38,729 to 79,949 SNPs in the 19 domesticated accessions and 55,403 SNPs in the wild barley and revealed their genome-wide distribution using a reference genome. Genome-scale comparisons among accessions showed a clear differentiation between oriental and occidental barley populations. The results based on population structure analyses provide genome-scale properties of sub-populations grouped to oriental, occidental and marginal groups in barley. Our findings suggest that the oriental population of domesticated barley has genomic variations distinct from those in occidental groups, which might have contributed to barley's domestication.
APETALA2/Ethylene-Responsive Factor (AP2/ERF) gene family is plant specific transcription factor. It plays critical roles in development process, tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses, and responses to plant hormones. However, limited data are available on the contributions of AP2/ERF gene family in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). In the present study, 121 HvAP2/ERF genes in barley were identified by using bioinformatics methods. A total of 118 HvAP2/ERF (97.5%) genes were located on seven chromosomes. According to phylogenetic classification of AP2/ERF family in Arabidopsis, HvAP2/ERF proteins were divided into AP2 (APETALA2), RAV (Related to ABI3/VP), DREB (dehydration responsive element binding), ERF (ethylene responsive factors) and soloist sub families. The analysis of duplication events indicated that tandem repeat and segmental duplication contributed to the expansion of the AP2/ERF family in barley. HvDREB1s/2s genes displayed various expression patterns under abiotic stress and phytohormone. Taken together, the data generated in this study will be useful for genome-wide analysis to determine the precise role of the HvAP2/ERF gene during barley development, abiotic stress and phytohormone responses with the ultimate goal of improving crop production.
An increase in global temperatures will impact future crop yields. In the cereal crops wheat and barley, high temperatures accelerate reproductive development, reducing the number of grains per plant and final grain yield. Despite this relationship between temperature and cereal yield, it is not clear what genes and molecular pathways mediate the developmental response to increased temperatures. The plant circadian clock can respond to changes in temperature and is important for photoperiod-dependent flowering, and so is a potential mechanism controlling temperature responses in cereal crops. This study examines the relationship between temperature, the circadian clock, and the expression of flowering-time genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare), a crop model for temperate cereals. Transcript levels of barley core circadian clock genes were assayed over a range of temperatures. Transcript levels of core clock genes CCA1, GI, PRR59, PRR73, PRR95, and LUX are increased at higher temperatures. CCA1 and PRR73 respond rapidly to a decrease in temperature whereas GI and PRR59 respond rapidly to an increase in temperature. The response of GI and the PRR genes to changes in temperature is lost in the elf3 mutant indicating that their response to temperature may be dependent on a functional ELF3 gene.
Plant development involves two polarity types: tissue cell (asymmetries within cells are coordinated across tissues) and regional (identities vary spatially across tissues) polarity. Both appear altered in the barley (
Influence of γ-irradiation of barley seeds (Nur variety) at the doses of 8-50 Gy on catalase, pyruvate kinase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and guaiacol peroxidase activities was studied in the seedlings on the 3, 5 and 7 days after germination. It has been shown that activities of the studied enzymes increase in the dose range that causes the growth stimulation in the seedlings (16-20 Gy).
Plant roots are the first organs sensing and responding to salinity stress, manifested differentially between different root types, and also at the individual tissue and cellular level. High genetic diversity and the current lack of an assembled map-based sequence of the barley genome severely limit barley research potential. We used over 580 and 600 million paired-end reads, respectively, to create two de novo assemblies of a barley landrace (Sahara) and a malting cultivar (Clipper) with known contrasting responses to salinity. Generalized linear models were used to statistically access spatial, treatment-related, and genotype-specific responses. This revealed a spatial gene expression gradient along the barley root, with more differentially expressed transcripts detected between different root zones than between treatments. The root transcriptome also showed a gradual transition from transcripts related to sugar-mediated signaling at the root meristematic zone to those involved in cell wall metabolism in the elongation zone, and defense response-related pathways toward the maturation zone, with significant differences between the two genotypes. The availability of these additional transcriptome reference sets will serve as a valuable resource to the cereal research community, and may identify valuable traits to assist in breeding programmes.
Ramularia collo-cygni is a newly important, foliar fungal pathogen of barley that causes the disease Ramularia leaf spot. The fungus exhibits a prolonged endophytic growth stage before switching life habit to become an aggressive, necrotrophic pathogen that causes significant losses to green leaf area and hence grain yield and quality. The R. collo-cygni genome was sequenced using a combination of Illumina and Roche 454 technologies. The draft assembly of 30.3 Mb contained 11,617 predicted gene models. Our phylogenomic analysis confirmed the classification of this ascomycete fungus within the family Mycosphaerellaceae, order Capnodiales of the class Dothideomycetes. A predicted secretome comprising 1053 proteins included redox-related enzymes and carbohydrate-modifying enzymes and proteases. The relative paucity of plant cell wall degrading enzyme genes may be associated with the stealth pathogenesis characteristic of plant pathogens from the Mycosphaerellaceae. A large number of genes associated with secondary metabolite production, including homologs of toxin biosynthesis genes found in other Dothideomycete plant pathogens, were identified. The genome sequence of R. collo-cygni provides a framework for understanding the genetic basis of pathogenesis in this important emerging pathogen. The reduced complement of carbohydrate-degrading enzyme genes is likely to reflect a strategy to avoid detection by host defences during its prolonged asymptomatic growth. Of particular interest will be the analysis of R. collo-cygni gene expression during interactions with the host barley, to understand what triggers this fungus to switch from being a benign endophyte to an aggressive necrotroph.
Many genes involved in responses to photoperiod and vernalization have been characterized or predicted in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), Brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon), wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). However, little is known about the transcription regulation of these genes, especially in the large, complex genomes of wheat and barley. We identified 68, 60, 195 and 61 genes that are known or postulated to control pathways of photoperiod (PH), vernalization (VE) and pathway integration (PI) in Arabidopsis, Brachypodium, wheat and barley for predicting transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) in the promoters of these genes using the FIMO motif search tool of the MEME Suite. The initial predicted TFBSs were filtered to confirm the final numbers of predicted TFBSs to be 1066, 1379, 1528, and 789 in Arabidopsis, Brachypodium, wheat and barley, respectively. These TFBSs were mapped onto the PH, VE and PI pathways to infer about the regulation of gene expression in Arabidopsis and cereal species. The GC contents in promoters, untranslated regions (UTRs), coding sequences and introns were higher in the three cereal species than those in Arabidopsis. The predicted TFBSs were most abundant for two transcription factor (TF) families: MADS-box and CSD (cold shock domain). The analysis of publicly available gene expression data showed that genes with similar numbers of MADS-box and CSD TFBSs exhibited similar expression patterns across several different tissues and developmental stages. The intra-specific Tajima D-statistics of TFBS motif diversity showed different binding specificity among different TF families. The inter-specific Tajima D-statistics suggested faster TFBS divergence in TFBSs than in coding sequences and introns. Mapping TFBSs onto the PH, VE and PI pathways showed the predominance of MADS-box and CSD TFBSs in most genes of the four species, and the difference in the pathway regulations between Arabidopsis and the three cereal species. Our approach to associating the key flowering genes with their potential TFs through prediction of putative TFBSs provides a framework to explore regulatory mechanisms of photoperiod and vernalization responses in flowering plants. The predicted TFBSs in the promoters of the flowering genes provide a basis for molecular characterization of transcription regulation in the large, complex genomes of important crop species, wheat and barley.
Calpains are ubiquitous and well-conserved proteins that belong to the calcium-dependent, non-lysosomal cysteine protease family. In this study, 8 putative calpains were identified using Pfam domain analysis and BlastP searches in M. oryzae. Three single gene deletion mutants (ΔMocapn7, ΔMocapn9 and ΔMocapn14) and two double gene deletion mutants (ΔMocapn4ΔMocapn7 and ΔMocapn9ΔMocapn7) were obtained using the high-throughput gene knockout system. The calpain disruption mutants showed defects in colony characteristics, conidiation, sexual reproduction and cell wall integrity. The mycelia of the ΔMocapn7, ΔMocapn4ΔMocapn7 and ΔMocapn9ΔMocapn7 mutants showed reduced pathogenicity on rice and barley.
Domestication and intensive selective breeding of plants has triggered erosion of genetic diversity of important stress-related alleles. Researchers highlight the potential of using wild accessions as a gene source for improvement of cereals such as barley, which has major economic and social importance worldwide. Previously, we have successfully introduced the maize Ac/Ds transposon system for gene identification in cultivated barley. The objective of current research was to investigate the response of Hordeum vulgare ssp. spontaneum wild barley accessions in tissue culture to standardize parameters for introduction of Ac/Ds transposons through genetic transformation. We investigated the response of ten wild barley genotypes for callus induction, regenerative green callus induction and regeneration of fertile plants. The activity of exogenous Ac/Ds elements was observed through a transient assay on immature wild barley embryos/callus whereby transformed embryos/calli were identified by the expression of GUS. Transient Ds expression bombardment experiments were performed on 352 pieces of callus (3-5 mm each) or immature embryos in 4 genotypes of wild barley. The transformation frequency of putative transgenic callus lines based on transient GUS expression ranged between 72 and100 % in wild barley genotypes. This is the first report of a transformation system in H. vulgare ssp. spontaneum.
The ability of plants to match their reproductive output with favorable environmental conditions has major consequences both for lifetime fitness and geographic patterns of diversity. In temperate ecosystems, some plant species have evolved the ability to use winter nonfreezing cold (vernalization) as a cue to ready them for spring flowering. However, it is unknown how important the evolution of vernalization responsiveness has been for the colonization and subsequent diversification of taxa within the northern and southern temperate zones. Grasses of subfamily Pooideae, including several important crops, such as wheat (Triticum aestivum), barley (Hordeum vulgare), and oats (Avena sativa), predominate in the northern temperate zone, and it is hypothesized that their radiation was facilitated by the early evolution of vernalization responsiveness. Predictions of this early origin hypothesis are that a response to vernalization is widespread within the subfamily and that the genetic basis of this trait is conserved. To test these predictions, we determined and reconstructed vernalization responsiveness across Pooideae and compared expression of wheat vernalization gene orthologs VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1) and VRN3 in phylogenetically representative taxa under cold and control conditions. Our results demonstrate that vernalization responsive Pooideae species are widespread, suggesting that this trait evolved early in the lineage and that at least part of the vernalization gene network is conserved throughout the subfamily. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the evolution of vernalization responsiveness was important for the initial transition of Pooideae out of the tropics and into the temperate zone.
To study enhanced barley germination by chitooligosaccharide as an elicitor for improving the quality of malt. Barley germination for both radical and leaf sprouts was enhanced when chitooligosaccharide was added to the steeping water in the first steeping cycle. The activities of hydrolases (α-/β-amylase, proteinase and β-glucanase) and antioxidases (superoxide dismutase and catalase) in the resultant malt were increased in a dose-dependent manner when chitooligosaccharide was supplemented in the steeping water. Maximal promotion was at 1 mg chitooligosaccharide/l for α-/β-amylase and proteinase, and at 10 mg/l for β-glucanase, superoxide dismutase and catalase. Malt quality, including free α-amino nitrogen content, Kolbach index, malt extract content, diastatic power, wort viscosity and the ratio of glucose, maltose and maltotriose, was significantly improved by chitooligosaccharide in seed priming at 1 mg/l. Application of chitooligosaccharide in the steeping water promotes barley germination and improves the quality of malt.
To date, a small number of major flowering time loci have been identified in the related Triticeae crops, bread wheat (Triticum aestivum), durum wheat (T. durum), and barley (Hordeum vulgare). Natural genetic variants at these loci result in major phenotypic changes which have adapted crops to the novel environments encountered during the spread of agriculture. The polyploid nature of bread and durum wheat means that major flowering time loci in which recessive alleles confer adaptive advantage in related diploid species have not been readily identified. One such example is the PPD-H2 flowering time locus encoded by FLOWERING LOCUS T 3 (HvFT3) in the diploid crop barley, for which recessive mutant alleles confer delayed flowering under short day (SD) photoperiods. In autumn-sown barley, such alleles aid the repression of flowering over the winter, which help prevent the development of cold-sensitive floral organs until the onset of inductive long day (LD) photoperiods the following spring. While the identification of orthologous loci in wheat could provide breeders with alternative mechanisms to fine tune flowering time, systematic identification of wheat orthologs of HvFT3 has not been reported. Here, we characterize the FT gene families in six Poaceae species, identifying novel members in all taxa investigated, as well as FT3 homoeologs from the A, B and D genomes of hexaploid (TaFT3) and tetraploid wheat. Sequence analysis shows TaFT3 homoeologs display high similarity to the HvFT3 coding region (95-96%) and predicted protein (96-97%), with conservation of intron/exon structure across the five cereal species investigated. Genetic mapping and comparative analyses in hexaploid and tetraploid wheat find TaFT3 homoeologs map to the long arms of the group 1 chromosomes, collinear to HvFT3 in barley and FT3 orthologs in rice, foxtail millet and brachypodium. Genome-specific expression analyses show FT3 homoeologs in tetraploid and hexaploid wheat are upregulated under SD photoperiods, but not under LDs, analogous to the expression of HvFT3. Collectively, these results indicate that functional wheat orthologs of HvFT3 have been identified. The molecular resources generated here provide the foundation for engineering a novel major flowering time locus in wheat using forward or reverse genetics approaches.
Leaf size is a major determinant of plant photosynthetic activity and biomass; however, it is poorly understood how leaf size is genetically controlled in cereal crop plants like barley (Hordeum vulgare). We conducted a genome-wide association scan for flowering time, leaf width, and leaf length in a diverse panel of European winter cultivars grown in the field and genotyped with a single-nucleotide polymorphism array. The genome-wide association scan identified PHOTOPERIOD-H1 (Ppd-H1) as a candidate gene underlying the major quantitative trait loci for flowering time and leaf size in the barley population. Microscopic phenotyping of three independent introgression lines confirmed the effect of Ppd-H1 on leaf size. Differences in the duration of leaf growth and consequent variation in leaf cell number were responsible for the leaf size differences between the Ppd-H1 variants. The Ppd-H1-dependent induction of the BARLEY MADS BOX genes BM3 and BM8 in the leaf correlated with reductions in leaf size and leaf number. Our results indicate that leaf size is controlled by the Ppd-H1- and photoperiod-dependent progression of plant development. The coordination of leaf growth with flowering may be part of a reproductive strategy to optimize resource allocation to the developing inflorescences and seeds.
It has been reported that barley leaves possess beneficial properties such as antioxidant, hypolipidemic, antidepressant, and antidiabetic. Interestingly, barley sprouts contain a high content of saponarin, which showed both anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities. In this study, we evaluated the effect of barley sprouts on alcohol-induced liver injury mediated by inflammation and oxidative stress. Raw barley sprouts were extracted, and quantitative and qualitative analyses of its components were performed. The mice were fed a liquid alcohol diet with or without barley sprouts for four weeks. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells were used to study the effect of barley sprouts on inflammation. Alcohol intake for four weeks caused liver injury, evidenced by an increase in serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase activities and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α levels. The accumulation of lipid in the liver was also significantly induced, whereas the glutathione (GSH) level was reduced. Moreover, the inflammation-related gene expression was dramatically increased. All these alcohol-induced changes were effectively prevented by barley sprouts treatment. In particular, pretreatment with barley sprouts significantly blocked inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 expression in LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7. This study suggests that the protective effect of barley sprouts against alcohol-induced liver injury is potentially attributable to its inhibition of the inflammatory response induced by alcohol.
During barley germination, the aleurone layer secretes most of the enzymes required to degrade the endosperm, many of which are yet to be characterized. We used activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) to detect a range of active enzymes extracted from aleurone layers isolated from grains of a commercial malting barley variety incubated with or without gibberellic acid (GA). Enzymes found to be induced by GA were putative aleurains, cathepsin-B-like proteases and serine hydrolases. By using an inhibitory sugar panel, a specific active retaining β-glycosidase in the barley aleurone was identified as a putative xylanase. Our results show that ABPP can be used rapidly to identify a variety of active enzyme isoforms in cereal aleurone without the need for enzyme purification.
The plant-specific NAC transcription factors have attracted particular attention because of their involvement in stress responses, senescence, and nutrient remobilization. The HvNAC005 gene of barley encodes a protein belonging to subgroup NAC-a6 of the NAC family. This study shows that HvNAC005 is associated with developmental senescence. It was significantly up-regulated following ABA treatment, supported by ABA-responsive elements in its promoter, but it was not up-regulated during dark-induced senescence. The C-termini of proteins closely related to HvNAC005 showed overall high divergence but also contained conserved short motifs. A serine- and leucine-containing central motif was essential for transcriptional activity of the HvNAC005 C-terminus in yeast. Over-expression of HvNAC005 in barley resulted in a strong phenotype with delayed development combined with precocious senescence. The over-expressing plants showed up-regulation of genes involved with secondary metabolism, hormone metabolism, stress, signalling, development, and transport. Up-regulation of senescence markers and hormone metabolism and signalling genes supports a role of HvNAC005 in the cross field of different hormone and signalling pathways. Binding of HvNAC005 to promoter sequences of putative target genes containing the T[G/A]CGT core motif was shown by direct protein-DNA interactions of HvNAC005 with promoters for two of the up-regulated genes. In conclusion, HvNAC005 was shown to be a strong positive regulator of senescence and so is an obvious target for the fine-tuning of gene expression in future attempts to improve nutrient remobilization related to the senescence process in barley.
The network analysis of genome-wide transcriptome responses, metabolic signatures and enzymes' relationship to biomass formation has been studied in a diverse panel of 12 barley accessions during vegetative and reproductive stages. The primary metabolites and enzymes involved in central metabolism that determine the accumulation of shoot biomass at the vegetative stage of barley development are primarily being linked to sucrose accumulation and sucrose synthase activity. Interestingly, the metabolic and enzyme links which are strongly associated with biomass accumulation during reproductive stages are related to starch accumulation and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates citrate, malate, trans-aconitate and isocitrate. Additional significant associations were also found for UDP glucose, ATP and the amino acids isoleucine, valine, glutamate and histidine during the reproductive stage. A network analysis resulted in a combined identification of metabolite and enzyme signatures indicative for grain weight accumulation that was correlated with the activity of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase), a rate-limiting enzyme involved in starch biosynthesis, and with that of alanine amino transferase involved in the synthesis of storage proteins. We propose that the mechanism related to vegetative and reproductive biomass formation vs. seed biomass formation is being linked to distinct fluxes regulating sucrose, starch, sugars and amino acids as central resources. These distinct biomarkers can be used to engineer biomass production and grain weight in barley.
The transcription factor MoAP1 has been shown previously to be required for pathogenicity in Magnaporthe oryzae via mediation of the oxidative stress response. In the serial analysis gene expression database, it was found that expression of MoYcp4, a homologue of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae flavodoxin-like protein ScYcp4, was affected by MoAP1. Transcriptional analysis demonstrated that MoYCP4 was significantly up-regulated during conidiation, appressorium formation and infection. The growth rate of a ΔMoycp4 mutant was reduced slightly, but conidial production was increased significantly (more than 10-fold), compared with the wild-type strain. Although the rate of appressorium formation was unaffected, the appressorial turgor was abnormal and the ability to infect rice and barley was reduced, resulting in decreased pathogenicity. In summary, MoYcp4, a target of MoAP1, is involved in the growth, conidiogenesis and pathogenicity of M. oryzae. Our studies provide a comprehensive analysis of flavodoxin-like proteins and will aid in the study of pathogen-related molecular mechanisms.
The recent characterization of the polysaccharide composition of papillae deposited at the barley cell wall during infection by the powdery mildew pathogen, Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh), has provided new targets for the generation of enhanced disease resistance. The role of callose in papilla-based penetration resistance of crop species is largely unknown because the genes involved in the observed callose accumulation have not been identified unequivocally. We have employed both comparative and functional genomics approaches to identify the functional orthologue of AtGsl5 in the barley genome. HvGsl6 (the barley glucan synthase-like 6 gene), which has the highest sequence identity to AtGsl5, is the only Bgh-induced gene among the HvGsls examined in this study. Through double-stranded RNA interference (dsRNAi)-mediated silencing of HvGsl6, we have shown that the down-regulation of HvGsl6 is associated with a lower accumulation of papillary and wound callose and a higher susceptibility to penetration of the papillae by Bgh, compared with control lines. The results indicate that the HvGsl6 gene is a functional orthologue of AtGsl5 and is involved in papillary callose accumulation in barley. The increased susceptibility of HvGsl6 dsRNAi transgenic lines to infection indicates that callose positively contributes to the barley fungal penetration resistance mechanism.
Cell walls and cellular turgor pressure shape and suspend the bodies of all vascular plants. In response to attack by fungal and oomycete pathogens, which usually breach their host's cell walls by mechanical force or by secreting lytic enzymes, plants often form local cell wall appositions (papillae) as an important first line of defence. The involvement of cell wall biosynthetic enzymes in the formation of these papillae is still poorly understood, especially in cereal crops. To investigate the role in plant defence of a candidate gene from barley (Hordeum vulgare) encoding cellulose synthase-like D2 (HvCslD2), we generated transgenic barley plants in which HvCslD2 was silenced through RNA interference (RNAi). The transgenic plants showed no growth defects but their papillae were more successfully penetrated by host-adapted, virulent as well as avirulent nonhost isolates of the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis. Papilla penetration was associated with lower contents of cellulose in epidermal cell walls and increased digestion by fungal cell wall degrading enzymes. The results suggest that HvCslD2-mediated cell wall changes in the epidermal layer represent an important defence reaction both for nonhost and for quantitative host resistance against nonadapted wheat and host-adapted barley powdery mildew pathogens, respectively.
In the present study, we have screened 71, 713, 525, 119 and 241 mature miRNA variants from Hordeum vulgare, Oryza sativa, Brachypodium distachyon, Triticum aestivum, and Sorghum bicolor, respectively, and classified them with respect to their conservation status and expression levels. These Poaceae non-redundant miRNA species (1,669) were distributed over a total of 625 MIR families, among which only 54 were conserved across two or more plant species, confirming the relatively recent evolutionary differentiation of miRNAs in grasses. On the other hand, we have used 257 H. vulgare, 286T. aestivum, 119 B. distachyon, 269 O. sativa, and 139 S. bicolor NBS domains, which were either mined directly from the annotated proteomes, or predicted from whole genome sequence assemblies. The hybridization potential between miRNAs and their putative NBS genes targets was analyzed, revealing that at least 454 NBS genes from all five Poaceae were potentially regulated by 265 distinct miRNA species, most of them expressed in leaves and predominantly co-expressed in additional tissues. Based on gene ontology, we could assign these probable miRNA target genes to 16 functional groups, among which three conferring resistance to bacteria (Rpm1, Xa1 and Rps2), and 13 groups of resistance to fungi (Rpp8,13, Rp3, Tsn1, Lr10, Rps1-k-1, Pm3, Rpg5, and MLA1,6,10,12,13). The results of the present analysis provide a large-scale platform for a better understanding of biological control strategies of disease resistance genes in Poaceae, and will serve as an important starting point for enhancing crop disease resistance improvement by means of transgenic lines with artificial miRNAs.
Pathogen-associated molecular pattern-triggered immunity (PTI) builds one of the first layers of plant disease resistance. In susceptible plants, PTI is overcome by adapted pathogens. This can be achieved by suppression of PTI with the help of pathogen virulence effectors. However, effectors may also contribute to modification of host metabolism or cell architecture to ensure successful pathogenesis. Barley responds to treatment with the pathogen-associated molecular patterns flg22 or chitin with phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases and an oxidative burst. RAC/ROP GTPases can act as positive or negative modulators of these plant immune responses. The RAC/ROP GTPase RACB is a powdery mildew susceptibility factor of barley. However, RACB apparently does not negatively control early PTI responses but functions in polar cell development during invasion of the pathogen into living host epidermal cells. Here, we further discuss the incomplete picture of PTI in Triticeae.
A family of CBF transcription factors plays a major role in reconfiguring the plant transcriptome in response to low-freezing temperature in temperate cereals. In barley, more than 13 HvCBF genes map coincident with the major QTL FR-H2 suggesting them as candidates to explain the function of the locus. Variation in copy number (CNV) of specific HvCBFs was assayed in a panel of 41 barley genotypes using RT-qPCR. Taking advantage of an accurate phenotyping that combined Fv/Fm and field survival, resistance-associated variants within FR-H2 were identified. Genotypes with an increased copy number of HvCBF4 and HvCBF2 (at least ten and eight copies, respectively) showed greater frost resistance. A CAPS marker able to distinguish the CBF2A, CBF2B and CBF2A/B forms was developed and showed that all the higher-ranking genotypes in term of resistance harbour only CBF2A, while other resistant winter genotypes harbour also CBF2B, although at a lower CNV. In addition to the major involvement of the HvCBF4-HvCBF2 genomic segment in the proximal cluster of CBF elements, a negative role of HvCBF3 in the distal cluster was identified. Multiple linear regression models taking into account allelic variation at FR-H1/VRN-H1 explained 0.434 and 0.550 (both at p < 0.001) of the phenotypic variation for Fv/Fm and field survival respectively, while no interaction effect between CNV at the HvCBFs and FR-H1/VRN-H1 was found. Altogether our data suggest a major involvement of the CBF genes located in the proximal cluster, with no apparent involvement of the central cluster contrary to what was reported for wheat.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) produces five leucine-derived hydroxynitrile glucosides (HNGs), of which only epiheterodendrin is a cyanogenic glucoside. The four non-cyanogenic HNGs are the β-HNG epidermin and the γ-HNGs osmaronin, dihydroosmaronin and sutherlandin. By analyzing 247 spring barley lines including landraces and old and modern cultivars, we demonstrated that the HNG level varies notably between lines whereas the overall ratio between the compounds is constant. Based on sequence similarity to the sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) genes involved in dhurrin biosynthesis, we identified a gene cluster on barley chromosome 1 putatively harboring genes that encode enzymes in HNG biosynthesis. Candidate genes were functionally characterized by transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana. Five multifunctional P450s, including two CYP79 family enzymes and three CYP71 family enzymes, and a single UDP-glucosyltransferase were found to catalyze the reactions required for biosynthesis of all five barley HNGs. Two of the CYP71 enzymes needed to be co-expressed for the last hydroxylation step in sutherlandin synthesis to proceed. This observation, together with the constant ratio between the different HNGs, suggested that HNG synthesis in barley is organized within a single multi-enzyme complex.
Annexins are an evolutionarily conserved multigene family of calcium-dependent phospholipid binding proteins that play important roles in stress resistance and plant development. They have been relatively well characterized in model plants Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa), but nothing has been reported in hexaploid bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barely (Hordeum vulgare), which are the two most economically important plants. Based on available genomic and transcriptomic data, 25 and 11 putative annexin genes were found through in silico analysis in wheat and barley, respectively. Additionally, eight and 11 annexin genes were identified from the draft genome sequences of Triticum urartu and Aegilops tauschii, progenitor for the A and D genome of wheat, respectively. By phylogenetic analysis, annexins in these four species together with other monocots and eudicots were classified into six different orthologous groups. Pi values of each of Ann1-12 genes among T. aestivum, T. urartu, A. tauschii and H. vulgare species was very low, with the exception of Ann2 and Ann5 genes. Ann2 gene has been under positive selection, but Ann6 and Ann7 have been under purifying selection among the four species in their evolutionary histories. The nucleotide diversities of Ann1-12 genes in the four species were 0.52065, 0.59239, 0.60691 and 0.53421, respectively. No selective pressure was operated on annexin genes in the same species. Gene expression patterns obtained by real-time PCR and re-analyzing the public microarray data revealed differential temporal and spatial regulation of annexin genes in wheat under different abiotic stress conditions such as salinity, drought, cold and abscisic acid. Among those genes, TaAnn10 is specifically expressed in the anther but fails to be induced by low temperature in thermosensitive genic male sterile lines, suggesting that specific down-regulation of TaAnn10 is associated with conditional male sterility in wheat. This study analyzed the size and composition of the annexin gene family in wheat and barley, and investigated differential tissue-specific and stress responsive expression profiles of the gene family in wheat. These results provided significant information for understanding the diverse roles of plant annexins and opened a new avenue for functional studies of cold induced male sterility in wheat.
The glaucous appearance of wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants, that is the light bluish-gray look of flag leaf, stem, and spike surfaces, results from deposition of cuticular β-diketone wax on their surfaces; this phenotype is associated with high yield, especially under drought conditions. Despite extensive genetic and biochemical characterization, the molecular genetic basis underlying the biosynthesis of β-diketones remains unclear. Here, we discovered that the wheat W1 locus contains a metabolic gene cluster mediating β-diketone biosynthesis. The cluster comprises genes encoding proteins of several families including type-III polyketide synthases, hydrolases, and cytochrome P450s related to known fatty acid hydroxylases. The cluster region was identified in both genetic and physical maps of glaucous and glossy tetraploid wheat, demonstrating entirely different haplotypes in these accessions. Complementary evidence obtained through gene silencing in planta and heterologous expression in bacteria supports a model for a β-diketone biosynthesis pathway involving members of these three protein families. Mutations in homologous genes were identified in the barley eceriferum mutants defective in β-diketone biosynthesis, demonstrating a gene cluster also in the β-diketone biosynthesis Cer-cqu locus in barley. Hence, our findings open new opportunities to breed major cereal crops for surface features that impact yield and stress response.
Protein breakdown and mobilization from old or stressed tissues to growing and sink organs are some of the metabolic features associated with abiotic/biotic stresses, essential for nutrient recycling. The massive degradation of proteins implies numerous proteolytic events in which cysteine-proteases are the most abundant key players. Analysing the role of barley C1A proteases in response to abiotic stresses is crucial due to their impact on plant growth and grain yield and quality. In this study, dark and nitrogen starvation treatments were selected to induce stress in barley. Results show that C1A proteases participate in the proteolytic processes triggered in leaves by both abiotic treatments, which strongly induce the expression of the HvPap-1 gene encoding a cathepsin F-like protease. Differences in biochemical parameters and C1A gene expression were found when comparing transgenic barley plants overexpressing or silencing the HvPap-1 gene and wild-type dark-treated leaves. These findings associated with morphological changes evidence a lifespan-delayed phenotype of HvPap-1 silenced lines. All these data elucidate on the role of this protease family in response to abiotic stresses and the potential of their biotechnological manipulation to control the timing of plant growth.
Hulless barley, also called naked barley, is an important cereal crop worldwide, serving as a healthy food both for human consumption and animal feed. Nevertheless, it often suffered from drought stress during its growth and development, resulting in a drastic reduction in barley yields. Therefore, study on molecular mechanism of hulless barley drought-tolerance is very important for increasing barley production. To investigate molecular mechanism of barley drought-resistance, this study examined co-regulated mRNAs that show a change in expression pattern under early well water, later water deficit and finally water recovery treatments, and to identify mRNAs specific to water limiting conditions. Total of 853 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were detected and categorized into nine clusters, in which VI and VIII were apparently up-regulated under low relative soil moisture content (RSMC) level. The majority of genes in these two clusters was relevant to abiotic stress responses in abscisic acid (ABA) dependent and independent signaling pathway, including NCED, PYR/PYL/RCAR, SnRK2, ABF, MYB/MYC, AP2/ERF family, LEA and DHN. In contrast, genes within clusters II and IV were generally down-regulated under water stress; cluster IX genes were up-regulated during water recovery response to both low and high RSMC levels. Genes in implicated in tetrapyrrole binding, photosystem and photosynthetic membrane were the most affected in cluster IX. Taken together, our findings indicate that the responses of hulless barley to drought stress shows differences in the pathways and genes activated. Furthermore, all these genes displayed different sensitivities to soil water deficit and might be profitable for future drought tolerance improvement in barley and other crops.
Fusarium graminearum causes Fusarium head blight (FHB), a major disease problem worldwide. Resistance to FHB is controlled by quantitative trait loci (QTL) of which two are located on barley chromosomes 2H bin8 and 6H bin7. The mechanisms of resistance mediated by FHB QTL are poorly defined. Near-isogenic lines (NILs) carrying Chevron-derived resistant alleles for the two QTL were developed and exhibited FHB resistance in field trials. To understand the molecular responses associated with resistance, transcriptomes of the NILs and recurrent parents (M69 and Lacey) were investigated with RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) after F. graminearum or mock inoculation. A total of 2083 FHB-responsive transcripts were detected and provide a gene expression atlas for the barley-F. graminearum interaction. Comparative analysis of the 2Hb8 resistant (R) NIL and M69 revealed that the 2Hb8 R NIL exhibited an elevated defense response in the absence of fungal infection and responded quicker than M69 upon fungal infection. The 6Hb7 R NIL displayed a more rapid induction of a set of defense genes than Lacey during the early stage of fungal infection. Overlap of differentially accumulated genes were identified between the two R NILs, suggesting that certain responses may represent basal resistance to F. graminearum and/or general biotic stress response and were expressed by both resistant genotypes. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as potential key regulators of transcription. A total of 12,366 lncRNAs were identified, of which 604 were FHB responsive. The current transcriptomic analysis revealed differential responses conferred by two QTL during F. graminearum infection and identified genes and lncRNAs that were associated with FHB resistance.
Fusarium head blight (FHB), caused by Fusarium graminearum, is one of the most devastating diseases of wheat and barley. Resistance to FHB is highly complex and quantitative in nature, and is most often classified as resistance to spikelet infection and resistance to spread of pathogen through the rachis. In the present study, a resistant (CI9831) and a susceptible (H106-371) two-row barley genotypes, with contrasting levels of spikelet resistance to FHB, pathogen or mock-inoculated, were profiled for metabolites based on liquid chromatography and high resolution mass spectrometry. The key resistance-related (RR) metabolites belonging to fatty acids, phenylpropanoids, flavonoids and terpenoid biosynthetic pathways were identified. The free fatty acids (FFAs) linoleic and palmitic acids were among the highest fold change RR induced (RRI) metabolites. These FFAs are deposited as cutin monomers and oligomers to reinforce the cuticle, which acts as a barrier to pathogen entry. Quantitative real-time PCR studies revealed higher expressions of KAS2, CYP86A2, CYP89A2, LACS2 and WAX INDUCER1 (HvWIN1) transcription factor in the pathogen-inoculated resistant genotype than in the susceptible genotype. Knockdown of HvWIN1 by virus-induced genes silencing (VIGS) in resistant genotype upon pathogen inoculation increased the disease severity and fungal biomass, and decreased the abundance of FFAs like linoleic and palmitic acids. Notably, the expression of CYP86A2, CYP89A2 and LAC2 genes was also suppressed, proving the link of HvWIN1 in regulating these genes in cuticle biosynthesis as a defense response.
Dormancy allows wild barley grains to survive dry summers in the Near East. After domestication, barley was selected for shorter dormancy periods. Here we isolate the major seed dormancy gene qsd1 from wild barley, which encodes an alanine aminotransferase (AlaAT). The seed dormancy gene is expressed specifically in the embryo. The AlaAT isoenzymes encoded by the long and short dormancy alleles differ in a single amino acid residue. The reduced dormancy allele Qsd1 evolved from barleys that were first domesticated in the southern Levant and had the long dormancy qsd1 allele that can be traced back to wild barleys. The reduced dormancy mutation likely contributed to the enhanced performance of barley in industrial applications such as beer and whisky production, which involve controlled germination. In contrast, the long dormancy allele might be used to control pre-harvest sprouting in higher rainfall areas to enhance global adaptation of barley.
Drought is a crucial environmental constraint limiting crop production in many parts of the world. microRNA (miRNA) based gene regulation has been shown to act in several pathways, including crop response to drought stress. Sequence based profiling and computational analysis have revealed hundreds of miRNAs and their potential targets in different plant species under various stress conditions, but few have been biologically verified. In this study, 11 candidate miRNAs were tested for their expression profiles in barley. Differences in accumulation of only four miRNAs (Ath-miR169b, Osa-miR1432, Hv-miRx5 and Hv-miR166b/c) were observed between drought-treated and well-watered barley in four genotypes. miRNA targets were predicted using degradome analysis of two, different genotypes, and genotype-specific target cleavage was observed. Inverse correlation of mature miRNA accumulation with miRNA target transcripts was also genotype dependent under drought treatment. Drought-responsive miRNAs accumulated predominantly in mesophyll tissues. Our results demonstrate genotype-specific miRNA regulation under drought stress and evidence for their role in mediating expression of target genes for abiotic stress response in barley.
Phosphoglucan phosphatases (Like-SEX4 1 and 2; LSF1 and LSF2) were reported to play roles in starch metabolism in leaves of Arabidopsis. In this study, we identified and mapped the LSF1 and LSF2 genes in barley (HvLSF1 and HvLSF2), characterized their gene and protein structures, predicted the cis-elements of their promoters, and analysed their expression patterns. HvLSF1 and HvLSF2 were mapped on the long arm of chromosome 1H (1HL) and 5H (5HL), respectively. Our results revealed varied exon-intron structures and conserved exon-intron junctions in both LSF1 and LSF2 from a range of analysed species. Alignment of protein sequences indicated that cTP and CT domains are much less varied than the functional domains (PDZ, DPS and CBM48). LSF2 was mainly expressed in anthers of barley and rice, and in leaf of Arabidopsis. LSF1 was mainly expressed in endosperm of barley and leaf of Arabidopsis and rice. The expression of LSF1 exhibited a diurnal pattern in rice only and that of LSF2 in both rice and Arabidopsis. Of the investigated stresses, only cold stress significantly reduced expression level of LSF1 and LSF2 in barley and LSF2 in Arabidopsis at late stages of the treatments. While heat treatment significantly decreased expression levels of LSF1 at middle stage (4 h) of a treatment in Arabidopsis only. The strong relationships detected between LSF2 and starch excess4 (SEX4), glucan, water dikinases or phosphoglucan, water dikinases were identified and discussed. Taken together, these results provide information of genetic manipulation of LSF1 and LSF2, especially in monocotyledon and further elucidate their regulatory mechanism in plant development.
The present study aimed to clarify the effect of timing and type of supplementary grain in grazing dairy cows on herbage dry matter intake (HDMI), nitrogen utilization and milk production. Eight lactating cows were allowed to graze from evening to morning during three seasonal periods (spring, summer, autumn). They were randomly allocated to four treatments (timing: pre- (Pre) or post-grazing (Post), for large grain allotments consisting of 75% of daily grain offered; grain type: barley or corn) in 4 × 4 Latin square designs in each period. In the spring period, HDMI was greater for cows fed corn than those fed barley (P = 0.005), whereas cows in the Pre treatment had a similar HDMI, higher (P = 0.049) urinary purine derivative concentration and greater (P = 0.004) milk yield compared with cows in the Post treatment. In the summer and autumn periods, timing treatments did not affect HDMI, nitrogen utilization or milk production, but cows supplemented with barley had higher urinary purine derivatives concentration (P < 0.05) and milk yield (P < 0.05) compared with those supplemented with corn. The results indicate that large grain allotments immediately before evening grazing during early grazing seasons increased ruminal microbial protein synthesis and milk production without reducing HDMI regardless of grain type.
Transcriptome analysis of barley embryogenic callus from isolated microspore culture under salt stress uncovered a role of translation inhibition and selective activation of stress-specific proteins in cellular defense. Soil salinity is one of the major abiotic stresses which constrains the plant growth and reduces the productivity of field crops. In this study, it was observed that the salt stress in barley isolated microspore culture impacted not only on the quantity of embryogenic callus but also on the quality for later differentiation. The barley microspore-derived embryogenic callus, a transient intermediate form linked cells and plants, was employed for a global transcriptome analysis by RNA sequencing to provide new insights into the cellular adaptation or acclimation to stress. A total of 596 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, in which 123 DEGs were up-regulated and 473 DEGs were down-regulated in the embryogenic callus produced from microspore culture under salt stress as compared to the control conditions. KEGG pathway analysis identified 'translation' (27 DEGs; 12.56 %) as the largest group and followed by 'folding, sorting and degradation' (25 DEGs; 11.63 %) in 215 mapped metabolic pathways. The results of RNA-Seq data and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction validation showed that the genes related to translation regulation (such as eIF1A, RPLP0, RPLP2, VARS) were down-regulated to control general protein synthesis, and the genes related to endoplasmic reticulum stress response (such as small heat shock protein genes) were selectively up-regulated against protein denaturing during microspore embryogenesis under continuous salt stress. These transcriptional remodeling might affect the essential protein synthesis for the cell development to fulfill totipotency under salt stress.
In this study, the barley HvD14 gene encoding α/β hydrolase, which is involved in strigolactone (SL) signaling, was identified. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the identified gene is an orthologue of the D14, AtD14 and PhDAD2 genes that have been described in rice, Arabidopsis thaliana and petunia, respectively. Using TILLING strategy, an hvd14.d mutant that carried the G725A transition, located in the second exon, was identified. This mutation led to the substitution of a highly conserved glycine-193 to glutamic acid in the conserved fragment of the α/β hydrolase domain of the HvD14 protein. The plants that carry the hvd14.d allele were semi-dwarf and produced a higher number of tillers in comparison to the wild-type (WT) parent cultivar. Additionally, the root architecture of mutant plants was affected: the total length of the seminal roots was significantly reduced, and the density of the lateral roots was higher than in the WT. Plants with the hvd14.d allele were insensitive to treatment with GR24, which is the synthetic analogue of SL. Analysis of the indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) concentration in the lateral buds showed no differences between the WT and mutant plants. By contrast, the WT seedlings treated with GR24 developed a lower number of tillers, longer primary roots with a reduced number of lateral roots and had an increased concentration of IAA in lateral buds. This paper describes the first barley SL mutant and shows the potential functions of SLs in barley growth and development.
Low phosphorus (LP) in soil is a widely-occurred limiting factor for crop production in the world. In a previous study we identified a highly LP-tolerant Tibetan wild barley accession (XZ99). Here, a comparatively proteomic analysis was conducted using three barley genotypes differing in LP tolerance to reveal the mechanisms underlying the LP tolerance of XZ99. Totally, 31 differentially accumulated proteins were identified in the roots and leaves of the three genotypes using 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry. They were involved in the various biological processes, including carbon and energy metabolism, signal transduction, cell growth and division, secondary metabolism, and stress defense. In comparison with XZ100 (LP sensitive) and ZD9 (LP moderately-tolerant), XZ99 had a more developed root system, which is mainly attributed to enhanced carbohydrate metabolizing proteins under LP conditions. The current results showed that Tibetan wild barley XZ99 and cultivated barley cultivar ZD9 differ in the mechanism of LP tolerance. The changes of the proteins associated with carbohydrate metabolism could account for the difference between the LP-tolerant and LP-sensitive genotypes. In addition, the mRNA expression levels of 9 LP responsive proteins were verified by qRT-PCR. The current results may open a new avenue of understanding the LP tolerance in plants on the proteomic basis.
NADPH oxidase catalyzes the production of the superoxide anion (O2(-)), a reactive oxygen species (ROS), and regulates the germination of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Diphenyleneiodonium (DPI) chloride, an NADPH oxidase inhibitor, delayed barley germination, and exogenous H2O2 (an ROS) partially rescued it. Six enzymes, ent-copalyl diphosphate synthase (CPS), ent-kaurene synthase (KS), ent-kaurene oxidase (KO), ent-kaurenoic acid oxidase (KAO), GA20-oxidase (GA20ox) and GA3-oxidase (GA3ox), catalyze the transformation of trans-geranylgeranyl diphosphate to active gibberellin, which promotes germination. Exogenous H2O2 promoted the expressions of HvKAO1 and HvGA3ox1 in barley embryos. These results suggest that ROS produced by NADPH oxidase are involved in gibberellin biosynthesis through the regulation of HvKAO1 and HvGA3ox1.
Due to its importance as a cereal crop worldwide, high interest in the determination of factors influencing barley grain quality exists. This study focusses on the elucidation of protein networks affecting early grain developmental processes. NanoLC-based separation coupled to label-free MS detection was applied to gain insights into biochemical processes during five different grain developmental phases (pre-storage until storage phase, 3days to 16days after flowering). Multivariate statistics revealed two distinct developmental patterns during the analysed grain developmental phases: proteins showed either highest abundance in the middle phase of development - in the transition phase - or at later developmental stages - within the storage phase. Verification of developmental patterns observed by proteomic analysis was done by applying hypothesis-driven approaches, namely Western Blot analysis and enzyme assays. High general metabolic activity of the grain with regard to protein synthesis, cell cycle regulation, defence against oxidative stress, and energy production via photosynthesis was observed in the transition phase. Proteins upregulated in the storage phase are related towards storage protein accumulation, and interestingly to the defence of storage reserves against pathogens. A mixed regulatory pattern for most enzymes detected in our study points to regulatory mechanisms at the level of protein isoforms. In-depth understanding of early grain developmental processes of cereal caryopses is of high importance as they influence final grain weight and quality. Our knowledge about these processes is still limited, especially on proteome level. To identify key mechanisms in early barley grain development, a label-free data-independent proteomics acquisition approach has been applied. Our data clearly show, that proteins either exhibit highest expression during cellularization and the switch to the storage phase (transition phase, 5-7 DAF), or during storage product accumulation (10-16 DAF). The results highlight versatile cellular metabolic activity in the transition phase and strong convergence towards storage product accumulation in the storage phase. Notably, both phases are characterized by particular protective mechanism, such as scavenging of oxidative stress and defence against pathogens, during the transition and the storage phase, respectively.
Dietary fiber and proteins are individually known to decrease feeding, but could result greater weight management benefit when both are combined. We hypothesized that supplementing the diet with fermented barley, being rich in both dietary fiber and proteins, could lower energy intake by modulating the mRNA expression level of hypothalamic genes associated with the regulation of feeding behavior and satiety; thereby decreasing body weight gain. To test our hypothesis, four groups of Sprague Dawley rats were arranged in a 2 × 2 factorial design (n = 6), low-fat diet with either guar gum (LFD-G) or fermented barley (LFD-FB) and high-fat diet with either guar gum (HFD-G) or fermented barley (HFD-FB). Using oral gavage, fermented barley was given at a dosage of 1500 mg/kg body weight and guar gum was supplemented in an equivalent quantity to that of the fiber in the fermented barley. After 19 weeks, the fermented barley-supplemented groups showed a significant reduction in energy intake, triglyceride, body weight gain, and serum leptin, compared to the guar gum-supplemented groups in both the low- and high-fat diet groups. Likewise, the anorexigenic gene proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) mRNA level were significantly higher in the fermented barley-supplemented groups compared to the guar gum-supplemented groups in rats fed on both high- and low-fat diets. In conclusion, fermented barley supplementation upregulated hypothalamic POMC/CART, decreased energy intake in both low- and high-fat diet groups, and prevented excessive weight gain in rats.
RHO GTPases are regulators of cell polarity and immunity in eukaryotes. In plants, RHO-like RAC/ROP GTPases are regulators of cell shaping, hormone responses, and responses to microbial pathogens. The barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) RAC/ROP protein RACB is required for full susceptibility to penetration by Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh), the barley powdery mildew fungus. Disease susceptibility factors often control host immune responses. Here we show that RACB does not interfere with early microbe-associated molecular pattern-triggered immune responses such as the oxidative burst or activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases. RACB also supports rather than restricts expression of defence-related genes in barley. Instead, silencing of RACB expression by RNAi leads to defects in cell polarity. In particular, initiation and maintenance of root hair growth and development of stomatal subsidiary cells by asymmetric cell division is affected by silencing expression of RACB. Nucleus migration is a common factor of developmental cell polarity and cell-autonomous interaction with Bgh RACB is required for positioning of the nucleus near the site of attack from Bgh We therefore suggest that Bgh profits from RACB's function in cell polarity rather than from immunity-regulating functions of RACB.
The Cys2 -His2 (C2H2) zinc finger protein family is the second-largest family of transcription factors (TFs) in Magnaporthe oryzae, the causal fungus responsible for the destructive rice blast disease. However, little is known about the roles of most C2H2 TFs in the development and pathogenicity of M. oryzae. The roles of 47 C2H2 genes in development and pathogenicity were investigated by gene deletion in M. oryzae. The TF-dependent genes in mycelia or appressoria were analyzed with RNA sequencing and quantitative PCR (qPCR). Forty-four C2H2 genes are involved in growth (20 genes), conidiation (28 genes), appressorium formation (four genes) and pathogenicity (22 genes) in M. oryzae. Of these, MGG_14931, named as VRF1, is required for pathogenicity, specifically controlling appressorium maturation by affecting the expression of genes related to appressorial structure and function, including melanin biosynthesis, chitin catabolism, lipid metabolism, proteolysis, transmembrane transport, and response to oxidative stress; MGG_01776, named as VRF2, is required for plant penetration and invasive growth; conidiation-related gene CON7 is required for conidial differentiation; and MoCREA, encoding a carbon catabolite repression protein, is a novel repressor of lipid catabolism when glucose obtainable in M. oryzae. This study provides many insights into the regulation of growth, asexual development, appressorium formation, and pathogenicity by C2H2 TFs in M. oryzae.
Seed germination activates many new biological processes including DNA, membrane and mitochondrial repairs and requires active protein synthesis and sufficient energy supply. Alternative splicing (AS) regulates many cellular processes including cell differentiation and environmental adaptations. However, limited information is available on the regulation of seed germination at post-transcriptional levels. We have conducted RNA-sequencing experiments to dissect AS events in barley seed germination. We identified between 552 and 669 common AS transcripts in germinating barley embryos from four barley varieties (Hordeum vulgare L. Bass, Baudin, Harrington and Stirling). Alternative 3' splicing (34%-45%), intron retention (32%-34%) and alternative 5' splicing (16%-21%) were three major AS events in germinating embryos. The AS transcripts were predominantly mapped onto ribosome, RNA transport machineries, spliceosome, plant hormone signal transduction, glycolysis, sugar and carbon metabolism pathways. Transcripts of these genes were also very abundant in the early stage of seed germination. Correlation analysis of gene expression showed that AS hormone responsive transcripts could also be co-expressed with genes responsible for protein biosynthesis and sugar metabolisms. Our RNA-sequencing data revealed that AS could play important roles in barley seed germination.
Barley stress response to ultraviolet radiation (UV) has been intensively studied at both the physiological and morphological level. However, the ability of barley genome to repair UV-induced lesions at the DNA level is far less characterized. In this study, we have investigated the relative contribution of light-dependent and dark DNA repair pathways for the efficient elimination of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) from the genomic DNA of barley leaf seedlings. The transcriptional activity of barley CPD photolyase gene in respect to the light-growth conditions and UV-C irradiation of the plants has also been analyzed. Our results show that CPDs induced in the primary barley leaf at frequencies potentially damaging DNA at the single-gene level are removed efficiently and exclusively by photorepair pathway, whereas dark repair is hardly detectable, even at higher CPD frequency. A decrease of initially induced CPDs under dark is observed but only after prolonged incubation, suggesting the activation of light-independent DNA damage repair and/or tolerance mechanisms. The green barley seedlings possess greater capacity for CPD photorepair than the etiolated ones, with efficiency of CPD removal dependent on the intensity and quality of recovering light. The higher repair rate of CPDs measured in the green leaves correlates with the higher transcriptional activity of barley CPD photolyase gene. Visible light and UV-C radiation affect differentially the expression of CPD photolyase gene particularly in the etiolated leaves. We propose that the CPD repair potential of barley young seedlings may influence their response to UV-stress.
During germination and early seedling growth of barley (Hordeum vulgare), maltase is responsible for the conversion of maltose produced by starch degradation in the endosperm to glucose for seedling growth. Despite the potential relevance of this enzyme for malting and the production of alcoholic beverages, neither the nature nor the role of maltase is fully understood. Although only one gene encoding maltase has been identified with certainty, there is evidence for the existence of other genes and for multiple forms of the enzyme. It has been proposed that maltase may be involved directly in starch granule degradation as well as in maltose hydrolysis. The aim of our work was to discover the nature of maltase in barley endosperm. We used ion exchange chromatography to fractionate maltase activity from endosperm of young seedlings, and we partially purified activity for protein identification. We compared maltase activity in wild-type barley and transgenic lines with reduced expression of the previously-characterised maltase gene Agl97, and we used genomic and transcriptomic information to search for further maltase genes. We show that all of the maltase activity in the barley endosperm can be accounted for by a single gene, Agl97. Multiple forms of the enzyme most likely arise from proteolysis and other post-translational modifications.
Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) is a major cool-season turfgrass requiring frequent mowing. Utilization of cultivars with slow growth is a promising method to decrease mowing frequency. In this study, two dwarf mutant selections of Kentucky bluegrass (A12 and A16) induced by space mutation were analyzed for the differentially expressed genes compared with the wild type (WT) by the high-throughput RNA-Seq technology. 253,909 unigenes were obtained by de novo assembly. 24.20% of the unigenes had a significant level of amino acid sequence identity to Brachypodium distachyon proteins, followed by Hordeum vulgare with 18.72% among the non-redundant (NR) Blastx top hits. Assembled unigenes were associated with 32 pathways using KEGG orthology terms and their respective KEGG maps. Between WT and A16 libraries, 4,203 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, whereas there were 883 DEGs between WT and A12 libraries. Further investigation revealed that the DEG pathways were mainly involved in terpenoid biosynthesis and plant hormone metabolism, which might account for the differences of plant height and leaf blade color between dwarf mutant and WT plants. Our study presents the first comprehensive transcriptomic data and gene function analysis of Poa pratensis L., providing a valuable resource for future studies in plant dwarfing breeding and comparative genome analysis for Pooideae plants.
Barley leaf stripe disease, caused by the fungus Pyrenophora graminea (Pg), is a worldwide crop disease that results in significant loss of barley yield. The purpose of the present work was to use transcriptomic profiling to highlight barley genes and metabolic pathways affected or altered in response to Pg infection and consequently elucidate their involvement and contribution in resistance to leaf stripe. Our study examined and compared the transcriptomes of two barley genotypes using an established differential display reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (DDRT-PCR) strategy at 14 and 20 days post-inoculation (dpi). A total of 54 significantly modulated expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were identified. The analysis of gene expression changes during the course of infection with Pg suggested the involvement of 15 upregulated genes during the immunity response. By using network-based analyses, we could establish a significant correlation between genes expressed in response to Pg invasion. Microscopic analysis and quantitative PCR (qPCR) profiling of callose synthase and cellulose synthases revealed a direct involvement of cell wall reinforcement and callose deposition in the Pg-resistant phenotype. We have identified a number of candidate genes possibly involved in the host-pathogen interactions between barley and Pg fungus, 15 of which are specifically expressed in Pg-resistant plants. Collectively, our results suggest that the resistance to leaf stripe in barley proceeds through callose deposition and different oxidation processes.
Variation in the size, shape, and positioning of leaves as the major photosynthetic organs strongly impacts crop yield, and optimizing these aspects is a central aim of cereal breeding [1, 2]. Leaf growth in grasses is driven by cell proliferation and cell expansion in a basal growth zone [3]. Although several factors influencing final leaf size and shape have been identified from rice and maize [4-14], what limits grass leaf growth in the longitudinal or transverse directions during leaf development remains poorly understood. To identify factors involved in this process, we characterized the barley mutant broad leaf1 (blf1). Mutants form wider but slightly shorter leaves due to changes in the numbers of longitudinal cell files and of cells along the leaf length. These differences arise during primordia outgrowth because of more cell divisions in the width direction increasing the number of cell files. Positional cloning, analysis of independent alleles, and transgenic complementation confirm that BLF1 encodes a presumed transcriptional regulator of the INDETERMINATE DOMAIN family. In contrast to loss-of-function mutants, moderate overexpression of BLF1 decreases leaf width below wild-type levels. A functional BLF1-vYFP fusion protein expressed from the endogenous promoter shows a dynamic expression pattern in the shoot apical meristem and young leaf primordia. Thus, we propose that the BLF1 gene regulates barley leaf size by restricting cell proliferation in the leaf-width direction. Given the agronomic importance of canopy traits in cereals, identifying functionally different BLF1 alleles promises to allow for the generation of optimized cereal ideotypes.
Phosphatidylinositol transfer proteins (PITPs) include a large group of proteins implicated in the non-vesicular traffic of phosphatidylinositol (PI) between membranes. In yeast, the structure and function of the PITP Sec14-p protein have been well characterized. In contrast, the knowledge on plant PITP proteins is very scarce. In this work, we characterized a novel type of PITP protein in barley named HvSec14p and related to the yeast Sec14-p protein. Our data reveal that HvSec14p consists of only the Sec14p-domain structurally homologous to the yeast phosphoinositide binding domain. We show that HvSec14p expression is up-regulated at both transcript and protein levels at specific stages of development during seed formation and germination, and in leaves of a drought-tolerant barley genotype under osmotic constraints. Modeling analyses of the protein three-dimensional structure revealed its capacity to dock the phosphoinositides, PtdIns(3)P, PtdIns(4)P, PtdIns(5)P and PtdIns(3,5)P2. Consistently, the recombinant HvSec14p protein is able to bind in vitro most PIP types, the highest affinity being observed with PtdIns(3,5)P2. Based on the high gene expression at specific developmental stages and in drought-tolerant barley genotypes, we propose that HvSec14p plays essential roles in the biogenesis of membranes in expanding cells and in their preservation under osmotic stress conditions.
Homeodomain leucine zipper class I (HD-Zip I) transcription factors (TFs) play key roles in the regulation of plant growth and development under stresses. Functions of the TaHDZipI-2 gene isolated from the endosperm of developing wheat grain were revealed. Molecular characterization of TaHDZipI-2 protein included studies of its dimerisation, protein-DNA interactions and gene activation properties using pull-down assays, in-yeast methods and transient expression assays in wheat cells. The analysis of TaHDZipI-2 gene functions was performed using transgenic barley plants. It included comparison of developmental phenotypes, yield components, grain quality, frost tolerance and the levels of expression of potential target genes in transgenic and control plants. Transgenic TaHDZipI-2 lines showed characteristic phenotypic features that included reduced growth rates, reduced biomass, early flowering, light-coloured leaves and narrowly elongated spikes. Transgenic lines produced 25-40% more seeds per spike than control plants, but with 50-60% smaller grain size. In vivo lipid imaging exposed changes in the distribution of lipids between the embryo and endosperm in transgenic seeds. Transgenic lines were significantly more tolerant to frost than control plants. Our data suggest the role of TaHDZipI-2 in controlling several key processes underlying frost tolerance, transition to flowering and spike development.
Abscisic acid (ABA) accumulates in seeds during the transition to the seed filling phase. ABA triggers seed maturation, storage activity, and stress signalling and tolerance. Immunomodulation was used to alter the ABA status in barley grains, with the resulting transgenic caryopses responding to the anti-ABA antibody gene expression with increased accumulation of ABA. Calculation of free versus antibody-bound ABA reveals large excess of free ABA, increasing signficantly in caryopses from 10 days after fertilization. Metabolite and transcript profiling in anti-ABA grains expose triggered and enhanced ABA-functions such as transcriptional up-regulation of sucrose-to-starch metabolism, storage protein synthesis and ABA-related signal transduction. Thus, enhanced ABA during transition phases induces precocious maturation but negatively interferes with growth and development. Anti-ABA grains display broad constitutive gene induction related to biotic and abiotic stresses. Most of these genes are ABA- and/or stress-inducible, including alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenases, peroxidases, chaperones, glutathione-S-transferase, drought- and salt-inducible proteins. Conclusively, ABA immunomodulation results in precocious ABA accumulation that generates an integrated response of stress and maturation. Repression of ABA signalling, occurring in anti-ABA grains, potentially antagonizes effects caused by overshooting production. Finally, mature grain weight and composition are unchanged in anti-ABA plants, although germination is somewhat delayed. This indicates that anti-ABA caryopses induce specific mechanisms to desensitize ABA signalling efficiently, which finally yields mature grains with nearly unchanged dry weight and composition. Such compensation implicates the enormous physiological and metabolic flexibilities of barley grains to adjust effects of unnaturally high ABA amounts in order to ensure and maintain proper grain development.
The root endophytic fungus Piriformospora indica enhances plant adaptation to environmental stress based on general and non-specific plant species mechanisms. In the present study, we integrated the ionomics, metabolomics, and transcriptomics data to identify the genes and metabolic regulatory networks conferring salt tolerance in P. indica-colonized barley plants. To this end, leaf samples were harvested at control (0 mM NaCl) and severe salt stress (300 mM NaCl) in P. indica-colonized and non-inoculated barley plants 4 weeks after fungal inoculation. The metabolome analysis resulted in an identification of a signature containing 14 metabolites and ions conferring tolerance to salt stress. Gene expression analysis has led to the identification of 254 differentially expressed genes at 0 mM NaCl and 391 genes at 300 mM NaCl in P. indica-colonized compared to non-inoculated samples. The integration of metabolome and transcriptome analysis indicated that the major and minor carbohydrate metabolism, nitrogen metabolism, and ethylene biosynthesis pathway might play a role in systemic salt-tolerance in leaf tissue induced by the root-colonized fungus.
Peroxisomes are involved in various metabolic processes and are important for virulence in different pathogenic fungi. How peroxisomes rapidly emerge in the appressorium during fungal infection is poorly understood. Here, we describe a gene, PEF1, which can regulate peroxisome formation in the appressorium by controlling peroxisomal fission, and is required for plant infection in the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. Targeted deletion of PEF1 resulted in a reduction in virulence and a delay in penetration and invasive growth in host cells. PEF1 was particularly expressed during appressorial development, and its encoding protein was co-localized with peroxisomes during appressorial development. Compared with the massive vesicle-shaped peroxisomes formed in the wild-type appressorium, the Δpef1 mutant could only form stringy linked immature peroxisomes, suggesting that PEF1 was involved in peroxisomal fission during appressorium formation. We also found that the Δpef1 mutant could not utilize fatty acids efficiently, which can improve significantly the expression level of PEF1 and induce peroxisomal fission. As expected, the Δpef1 mutant showed reduced intracellular production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) during appressorium formation and induced ROS accumulation in host cells during infection. Taken together, PEF1-mediated peroxisomal fission is important for fungal infection by controlling the number of peroxisomes in the appressorium.
Seed dormancy has fundamental importance in plant survival and crop production; however, the mechanisms regulating dormancy remain unclear [1-3]. Seed dormancy levels generally decrease during domestication to ensure that crops successfully germinate in the field. However, reduction of seed dormancy can cause devastating losses in cereals like wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) due to pre-harvest sprouting, the germination of mature seed (grain) on the mother plant when rain occurs before harvest. Understanding the mechanisms of dormancy can facilitate breeding of crop varieties with the appropriate levels of seed dormancy [4-8]. Barley is a model crop [9, 10] and has two major seed dormancy quantitative trait loci (QTLs), SD1 and SD2, on chromosome 5H [11-19]. We detected a QTL designated Qsd2-AK at SD2 as the single major determinant explaining the difference in seed dormancy between the dormant cultivar "Azumamugi" (Az) and the non-dormant cultivar "Kanto Nakate Gold" (KNG). Using map-based cloning, we identified the causal gene for Qsd2-AK as Mitogen-activated Protein Kinase Kinase 3 (MKK3). The dormant Az allele of MKK3 is recessive; the N260T substitution in this allele decreases MKK3 kinase activity and appears to be causal for Qsd2-AK. The N260T substitution occurred in the immediate ancestor allele of the dormant allele, and the established dormant allele became prevalent in barley cultivars grown in East Asia, where the rainy season and harvest season often overlap. Our findings show fine-tuning of seed dormancy during domestication and provide key information for improving pre-harvest sprouting tolerance in barley and wheat.
To acquire appropriate iron (Fe), vascular plants have developed two unique strategies, the reduction-based strategy I of nongraminaceous plants for Fe(2+) and the chelation-based strategy II of graminaceous plants for Fe(3+) . However, the mechanism of Fe uptake in bryophytes, the earliest diverging branch of land plants and dominant in gametophyte generation is less clear. Fe isotope fractionation analysis demonstrated that the liverwort Marchantia polymorpha uses reduction-based Fe acquisition. Enhanced activities of ferric chelate reductase and proton ATPase were detected under Fe-deficient conditions. However, M. polymorpha did not show mugineic acid family phytosiderophores, the key components of strategy II, or the precursor nicotianamine. Five ZIP (ZRT/IRT-like protein) homologs were identified and speculated to be involved in Fe uptake in M. polymorpha. MpZIP3 knockdown conferred reduced growth under Fe-deficient conditions, and MpZIP3 overexpression increased Fe content under excess Fe. Thus, a nonvascular liverwort, M. polymorpha, uses strategy I for Fe acquisition. This system may have been acquired in the common ancestor of land plants and coopted from the gametophyte to sporophyte generation in the evolution of land plants.
Aluminium (Al) toxicity is the main factor limiting the crop production in acid soils and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is one of the most Al-sensitive of the small-grained cereals. The major gene for Al tolerance in barley is HvAACT1 (HvMATE) on chromosome 4H which encodes a multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) protein. The HvAACT1 protein facilitates the Al-activated release of citrate from root apices which protects the growing cells and enables root elongation to continue. A 1 kb transposable element-like insert in the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of HvAACT1 is associated with increased gene expression and tolerance and a PCR-based marker is available to score for this insertion. We screened a wide range of barley genotypes for Al tolerance and identified a moderately tolerant Chinese genotype named CXHKSL which did not show the typical allele in the 5' UTR of HvAACT1 associated with tolerance. We investigated the mechanism of Al tolerance in CXHKSL and concluded it also relies on the Al-activated release of citrate from roots. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis of double haploid lines generated with CXHKSL and the Al-sensitive variety Gairdner mapped the tolerance locus to the same region as HvAACT1 on chromosome 4H. Our results show that the Chinese barley genotype CXHKSL possesses a novel allele of the major Al tolerance gene HvAACT1.
Ent-kaurene (KS) synthases and ent-kaurene-like (KSL) synthases are involved in the biosynthesis of phytoalexins and/or gibberellins which play a role in plant immunity and development. The relationship between expression of five synthase genes (HvKSL1, HvKS2, HvKS4, HvKS5, HvKSL4) and plant colonization by the endophytic fungus Piriformospora indica was assessed in barley (Hordeum vulgare). The KS gene family is differently up-regulated at 1, 3 and 7 day after P. indica inoculation. By comparison, the HvKSL4 gene expression pattern is more significantly affected by UV irradiation and P. indica colonization. The characterizations of two silencing lines (HvKSL1-RNAi, HvKSL4-RNAi) also were analyzed. HvKSL1-RNAi and HvKSL4-RNAi lines in the first generation lead to less dark green leaves and slower plant development. Further, reduced spikelet fertility in progenies of RNAi plants heterozygous for HvKSL1 were observed, but not for HvKSL4. T2 generation of HvKSL1-RNAi line showed semi-dwarf phenotype while the wild type phenotype could be restored by applying GA3. Silencing of HvKSL4 and HvKSL1 resulted in reduced colonization by P. indica especially in the HvKSL1-RNAi line. These results probably suggest the presence of two ent-KS synthase in barley, one (HvKSL1) that participates in the biosynthesis of GAs and another (HvKSL4) that is involved in the biosynthesis of phytoalexins.
A family of putative PECTIN ESTERASE INHIBITOR (PEI) genes, which were detected in the genomic region co-segregating with the resistance gene Rrs2 against scald caused by Rhynchosporium commune in barley, were characterized and tested for their possible involvement in mediating resistance to the pathogen by complementation and overexpression analysis. The sequences of the respective genes were derived from two BAC contigs originating from the susceptible cultivar 'Morex'. For the genes HvPEI2, HvPEI3, HvPEI4 and HvPEI6, specific haplotypes for 18 resistant and 23 susceptible cultivars were detected after PCR-amplification and haplotype-specific CAPS-markers were developed. None of the tested candidate genes HvPEI2, HvPEI3 and HvPEI4 alone conferred a high resistance level in transgenic over-expression plants, though an improvement of the resistance level was observed especially with OE-lines for gene HvPEI4. These results do not confirm but also do not exclude an involvement of the PEI gene family in the response to the pathogen. A candidate for the resistance gene Rrs2 could not be identified yet. It is possible that Rrs2 is a PEI gene or another type of gene which has not been detected in the susceptible cultivar 'Morex' or the full resistance reaction requires the presence of several PEI genes.
Drought is one of the stresses that limit the yield of barley. Despite extensive studies focused on the issue, the molecular mechanism of the response to drought is still not fully understood. In our previous study, we proposed drought-induced signal perception controlled by actin filaments (AFs). To test this hypothesis, we used a chemical inhibitor of AF polarization-latrunculin B. In drought-treated barley leaves, latrunculin B induced AF depolymerization and altered gene expression (mainly those controlling AF formation), notably inhibiting the expression of HVA1, a dehydrin encoding gene whose function in drought tolerance has been widely studied. These results suggest that AFs might be involved in water-deficit signal perception in plant cells.
High content of (1,3;1,4)-β-d-glucan in barley grains is regarded as an undesirable factor affecting malting potential, brewing yield and feed utilization. Production of thermostable bacterial (1,3;1,4)-β-glucanase in transgenic barley grain or supplementation of exogenous bacterial (1,3;1,4)-β-glucanase has been used to improve malt and feed quality. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of over-expression of an endogenous (1,3;1,4)-β-glucanase on β-glucan content and grain composition in barley. A construct containing full-length HvGlb2 cDNA encoding barley (1,3;1,4)-β-glucanase isoenzyme EII under the control of a promoter of barley D-Hordein gene Hor3-1 was introduced into barley cultivar Golden Promise via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, and transgenic plants were regenerated after hygromycin selection. The T Manipulating the expression of (1,3;1,4)-β-glucanase EII can control the β-glucan content in grain with no apparent harmful effects on grain quality of transgenic plants. © 2016 Society of Chemical Industry.
The discovery of barley Mlo demonstrated that filamentous pathogens rely on plant genes to achieve entry and lifecycle completion in barley leaves. While having a dramatic effect on foliar pathogens, it is unclear whether overlapping or distinct mechanisms affect filamentous pathogen infection of roots. To remove the bias connected with using different pathogens to understand colonization mechanisms in different tissues, we have utilized the aggressive hemibiotrophic oomycete pathogen Phytophthora palmivora. P. palmivora colonizes root as well as leaf tissues of barley (Hordeum vulgare). The infection is characterized by a transient biotrophy phase with formation of haustoria. Barley accessions varied in degree of susceptibility, with some accessions fully resistant to leaf infection. Notably, there was no overall correlation between degree of susceptibility in roots compared with leaves, suggesting that variation in different genes influences host susceptibility above and below ground. In addition, a developmental gradient influenced infection, with more extensive colonization observed in mature leaf sectors. The mlo5 mutation attenuates P. palmivora infection but only in young leaf tissues. The barley-P. palmivora interaction represents a simple system to identify and compare genetic components governing quantitative colonization in diverse barley tissue types.
Proteolysis is an essential process throughout the mobilization of storage proteins in barley (Hordeum vulgare) grains during germination. It involves numerous types of enzymes, with C1A Cys proteases the most abundant key players. Manipulation of the proteolytic machinery is a potential way to enhance grain yield and quality, and it could influence the mobilization of storage compounds along germination. Transgenic barley plants silencing or over-expressing the cathepsin F-like HvPap-1 Cys protease show differential accumulation of storage molecules such as starch, proteins, and free amino acids in the grain. It is particularly striking that the HvPap-1 artificial microRNA lines phenotype show a drastic delay in the grain germination process. Alterations to the proteolytic activities in the over-expressing and knock-down grains associated with changes in the level of expression of several C1A peptidases were also detected. Similarly, down-regulating cystatin Icy-2, one of the proteinaceous inhibitors of the cathepsin F-like protease, also has important effects on grain filling. However, the ultimate physiological influence of manipulating a peptidase or an inhibitor cannot be always predicted, since the plant tries to compensate the modified proteolytic effects by modulating the expression of some other peptidases or their inhibitors.
Polysaccharides comprising plant biomass are potential resources for conversion to fuels and chemicals. These polysaccharides include xylans derived from the hemicellulose of hardwoods and grasses, soluble β-glucans from cereals and starch as the primary form of energy storage in plants. Paenibacillus sp. JDR-2 (Pjdr2) has evolved a system for bioprocessing xylans. The central component of this xylan utilization system is a multimodular glycoside hydrolase family 10 (GH10) endoxylanase with carbohydrate binding modules (CBM) for binding xylans and surface layer homology (SLH) domains for cell surface anchoring. These attributes allow efficient utilization of xylans by generating oligosaccharides proximal to the cell surface for rapid assimilation. Coordinate expression of genes in response to growth on xylans has identified regulons contributing to depolymerization, importation of oligosaccharides and intracellular processing to generate xylose as well as arabinose and methylglucuronate. The genome of Pjdr2 encodes several other putative surface anchored multimodular enzymes including those for utilization of β-1,3/1,4 mixed linkage soluble glucan and starch. To further define polysaccharide utilization systems in Pjdr2, its transcriptome has been determined by RNA sequencing following growth on barley-derived soluble β-glucan, starch, cellobiose, maltose, glucose, xylose and arabinose. The putative function of genes encoding transcriptional regulators, ABC transporters, and glycoside hydrolases belonging to the corresponding substrate responsive regulon were deduced by their coordinate expression and locations in the genome. These results are compared to observations from the previously defined xylan utilization systems in Pjdr2. The findings from this study show that Pjdr2 efficiently utilizes these glucans in a manner similar to xylans. From transcriptomic and genomic analyses we infer a common strategy evolved by Pjdr2 for efficient bioprocessing of polysaccharides. The barley β-glucan and starch utilization systems in Pjdr2 include extracellular glycoside hydrolases bearing CBM and SLH domains for depolymerization of these polysaccharides. Overlapping regulation observed during growth on these polysaccharides suggests they are preferentially utilized in the order of starch before xylan before barley β-glucan. These systems defined in Pjdr2 may serve as a paradigm for developing biocatalysts for efficient bioprocessing of plant biomass to targeted biofuels and chemicals.
Low temperature is a major abiotic stress affecting crop growth and productivity. A better understanding of low temperature tolerance mechanisms is imperative for developing the crop cultivars with improved tolerance. We herein performed an Illumina RNA-sequencing experiment using two barley genotypes differing in freezing tolerance (Nure, tolerant and Tremois, sensitive), to determine the transcriptome profiling and genotypic difference under mild freezing shock treatment after a very short acclimation for gene induction. A total of 6474 differentially expressed genes, almost evenly distributed on the seven chromosomes, were identified. The key DEGs could be classified into six signaling pathways, i.e., Ca(2+) signaling, PtdOH signaling, CBFs pathway, ABA pathway, jasmonate pathway, and amylohydrolysis pathway. Expression values of DEGs in multiple signaling pathways were analyzed and a hypothetical model of mild freezing shock tolerance mechanism was proposed. Expression and sequence profile of HvCBFs cluster within Frost resistance-H2, a major quantitative trait locus on 5H being closely related to low temperature tolerance in barley, were further illustrated, considering the crucial role of HvCBFs on freezing tolerance. It may be concluded that multiple signaling pathways are activated in concert when barley is exposed to mild freezing shock. The pathway network we presented may provide a platform for further exploring the functions of genes involved in low temperature tolerance in barley.
Drought is an important abiotic stress causing the major crop losses worldwide. Identification of genomic regions associated with drought-related traits is essential for improving drought tolerance in barley. Association mapping was implemented to investigate the associations between 76 SSR markers and six drought-related traits on a set of 107 barley accessions evaluated under well-watered and drought-stressed conditions. Highly significant differences between well-watered and drought-stressed conditions were observed in all measured traits. A high level of polymorphism with SSR markers was observed. A total of 36 significant marker-trait associations for drought-related traits were detected. A high extent of significant LD (>61%) was observed between markers on different chromosomes, suggesting epistatic interaction. Several molecular markers are significantly associated with more than one phenotypic trait, suggesting the possible presence of pleiotropic or indirect effects. The phenotypic variation, explained by individual marker-trait associations, ranged from 6.33% to 35.78%.
Cytokinin plant hormones have been shown to play an important role in plant response to abiotic stresses. Herein, we expand upon the findings of Pospíšilová et al. [30] regarding preparation of novel transgenic barley lines overexpressing cytokinin dehydrogenase 1 gene from Arabidopsis under the control of mild root-specific promotor of maize β-glycosidase. These lines showed drought-tolerant phenotype mainly due to alteration of root architecture and stronger lignification of root tissue. A detailed transcriptomic analysis of roots of transgenic plants subjected to revitalization after drought stress revealed attenuated response through the HvHK3 cytokinin receptor and up-regulation of two transcription factors implicated in stress responses and abscisic acid sensitivity. Increased expression of several genes involved in the phenylpropanoid pathway as well as of genes encoding arogenate dehydratase/lyase participating in phenylalanine synthesis was found in roots during revitalization. Although more precursors of lignin synthesis were present in roots after drought stress, final lignin accumulation did not change compared to that in plants grown under optimal conditions. Changes in transcriptome indicated a higher auxin turnover in transgenic roots. The same analysis in leaves revealed that genes encoding putative enzymes responsible for production of jasmonates and other volatile compounds were up-regulated. Although transgenic barley leaves showed lower chlorophyll content and down-regulation of genes encoding proteins involved in photosynthesis than did wild-type plants when cultivated under optimal conditions, they did show a tendency to return to initial photochemical activities faster than did wild-type leaves when re-watered after severe drought stress. In contrast to optimal conditions, comparative transcriptomic analysis of revitalized leaves displayed up-regulation of genes encoding enzymes and proteins involved in photosynthesis, and especially those encoded by the chloroplast genome. Taken together, our results indicate that the partial cytokinin insensitivity induced in barley overexpressing cytokinin dehydrogenase contributes to tolerance to drought stress.
Our objective was to evaluate the effects of dietary starch content, altered by partial substitution of dietary grain with wheat dried distillers grain with solubles (DDGS), on the interval from calving to first ovulation, concentrations of hormones and metabolites in plasma and follicular fluid, and granulosa cell gene expression in preovulatory follicles. Sixty lactating dairy cows were assigned to 1 of 2 diets from calving until 84d postpartum. Diets were formulated to contain either 17.3% rolled barley grain (29.2% starch) or 17.2% wheat DDGS (19.1% starch), with 43.0% barley silage and 21.6% rolled corn grain as the other major ingredients (dry matter basis). Transrectal ultrasonography was performed twice weekly to monitor ovarian dynamics from 7 ± 2d postpartum until ovulation or until 56d in milk, whichever occurred earlier. Plasma concentrations of insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) were determined in all 60 cows, and that of glucose, fatty acids, and urea in a subset of 24 cows, representing those in which the first ovulation occurred spontaneously within 5 wk postpartum. Estradiol (proestrus) and progesterone (12d postovulation) in plasma were also measured. Concentrations of insulin, IGF-1, glucose, fatty acids, and urea were determined in follicular fluid (wk 9), and the expression of LH receptor, estrogen receptor β, cytochrome P450 aromatase, and plasma type glutathione peroxidase genes measured in granulosa cells obtained from the preovulatory follicles at wk 9 postpartum in the subset of 24 cows. Diets did not alter the interval from calving to first ovulation (32.3 ± 2.5d), but a significantly lower proportion of cows on the DDGS diet (20%) ovulated multiple (≥ 2) follicles at the first ovulation than those on the barley grain diet (40%). The incidence of multiple ovulations tended to be lower at first insemination (10 vs. 21% for cows fed DDGS and barley grain diets, respectively). Mean plasma concentration of insulin was higher in cows fed the barley grain diet (2.5 vs 1.6 IU/mL), and a diet by time interaction was noted, with cows on the barley grain ration having higher insulin from wk 6 to 12 postpartum; however, mean plasma IGF-1 concentration did not differ between dietary groups. In the subsets, mean plasma concentrations of metabolites or estradiol and progesterone were not affected by diet, parity, or diet by parity interactions. Cows on the DDGS diet had lower concentrations of IGF-I (69 vs. 108 ng/mL) and higher fatty acids (222 vs. 149 mEq/L) in the follicular fluid obtained from preovulatory follicles. Diet, parity, and diet by parity interactions did not affect the concentrations of insulin, glucose, urea, estradiol, and progesterone in follicular fluid. Diets did not alter the expression profiles of LHr, estrogen receptor β, CYP19, and GPx3 genes in granulosa cells. In summary, diets did not affect the interval from calving to first ovulation or granulosa cell gene expression. However, reducing dietary starch content by a partial replacement of dietary grain with wheat DDGS increased fatty acids in follicular fluid and reduced the concentrations of insulin in plasma, IGF-1 in follicular fluid, and the incidence of multiple ovulations.
Virus-Induced Gene Silencing (VIGS) creates a natural antiviral defense in plants. However, it has been also a powerful tool for endogenous gene silencing in dicot and monocot plants by exploitation of recombinant viruses, harboring silencing inducing sequences. The Barley Stripe Mosaic Virus (BSMV) based VIGS system is an efficient and rapid RNAi approach that is routinely applied in functional genomics studies of cereals. We present here a protocol for BSMV VIGS application in barley based on mechanical inoculation of the plants with in vitro transcribed recombinant BSMV RNAs as the silencing triggers.
Monocots represent a monophyletic clade of the angiosperms that - based on fossil and molecular records - originated at around the Early Cretaceous from aquatic and wetland ancestors. Among their members are important crops including maize, wheat, rice, sorghum and barley, accounting for the major source for the daily calorie uptake by humans. Reflecting this importance, the partly large and complex genomes of these plants were major targets for ambitious and innovative sequencing projects, which will be discussed in this review article.
In this study, 2 β-glucans with different molecular weight were prepared and purified from hull-less barley bran. The aim was to evaluate their effects on the differentiation of 3T3-L1 pre-adipocytes. Results showed that barley β-glucans inhibited the differentiation of 3T3-L1 pre-adipocytes induced by differentiation medium in a dose-dependent manner, the suppressive effect of high-molecular-weight barley β-glucans (552 kDa, BGH) was stronger (P < 0.05) than that of low-molecular-weight barley β-glucan (32 kDa, BGL), evidenced by the significantly decrease (P < 0.05) of Oil-red O staining and intracellular triglyceride content in the mature adipocytes. Besides, gene expression analysis and Western Blot analysis revealed that both BGH and BGL inhibited the mRNA and protein levels of adipogenesis related transcription factors peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) and CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein α (C/EBPα) which are principal regulators of adipogenesis. Furthermore, the mRNA and protein expression levels of PPARγ target genes in adipose tissue including adipocyte fatty acid binding protein (ap2), lipoprotein lipase (LPL), uncoupling protein-2 (UCP-2), and glucose-transporter 4 (Glut4) in 3T3-L1 cells was also markedly downregulated (P < 0.05). These findings were anticipated to help develop barley β-glucans based functional food for the management of obesity.
The accumulation of storage compounds in the starchy endosperm of developing cereal seeds is highly regulated at the transcriptional level. These compounds, mainly starch and proteins, are hydrolyzed upon germination to allow seedling growth. The transcription factor HvGAMYB is a master activator both in the maturation phase of seed development and upon germination, acting in combination with other transcription factors. However, the precise mechanism controlling the switch from maturation to germination programs remains unclear. We report here the identification and molecular characterization of Hordeum vulgare VIVIPAROUS1 (HvVP1), orthologous to ABA-INSENSITIVE3 from Arabidopsis thaliana HvVP1 transcripts accumulate in the endosperm and the embryo of developing seeds at early stages and in the embryo and aleurone of germinating seeds up to 24 h of imbibition. In transient expression assays, HvVP1 controls the activation of Hor2 and Amy6.4 promoters exerted by HvGAMYB. HvVP1 interacts with HvGAMYB in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and in the plant nuclei, hindering its interaction with other transcription factors involved in seed gene expression programs, like BPBF. Similarly, this interaction leads to a decrease in the DNA binding of HvGAMYB and the Barley Prolamine-Box binding Factor (BPBF) to their target sequences. Our results indicate that the HvVP1 expression pattern controls the full Hor2 expression activated by GAMYB and BPBF in the developing endosperm and the Amy6.4 activation in postgerminative reserve mobilization mediated by GAMYB. All these data demonstrate the participation of HvVP1 in antagonistic gene expression programs and support its central role as a gene expression switch during seed maturation and germination.
Flowering of many plant species is coordinated with seasonal environmental cues such as temperature and photoperiod. Vernalization provides competence to flower after prolonged cold exposure, and a vernalization requirement prevents flowering from occurring prior to winter. In winter wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare), three genes VRN1, VRN2, and FT form a regulatory loop that regulates the initiation of flowering. Prior to cold exposure, VRN2 represses FT. During cold, VRN1 expression increases, resulting in the repression of VRN2, which in turn allows activation of FT during long days to induce flowering. Here, we test whether the circuitry of this regulatory loop is conserved across Pooideae, consistent with their niche transition from the tropics to the temperate zone. Our phylogenetic analyses of VRN2-like genes reveal a duplication event occurred before the diversification of the grasses that gave rise to a CO9 and VRN2/Ghd7 clade and support orthology between wheat/barley VRN2 and rice (Oryza sativa) Ghd7 Our Brachypodium distachyon VRN1 and VRN2 knockdown and overexpression experiments demonstrate functional conservation of grass VRN1 and VRN2 in the promotion and repression of flowering, respectively. However, expression analyses in a range of pooids demonstrate that the cold repression of VRN2 is unique to core Pooideae such as wheat and barley. Furthermore, VRN1 knockdown in B. distachyon demonstrates that the VRN1-mediated suppression of VRN2 is not conserved. Thus, the VRN1-VRN2 feature of the regulatory loop appears to have evolved late in the diversification of temperate grasses.
Pattern recognition receptors represent a first line of plant defense against pathogens. Comparing the flag leaf transcriptomes of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) near-isogenic lines varying in the allelic state of a locus controlling senescence, we have previously identified a leucine-rich repeat receptor-like protein kinase gene (LRR-RLK; GenBank accession: AK249842), which was strongly upregulated in leaves of early-as compared to late-senescing germplasm. Bioinformatic analysis indicated that this gene codes for a subfamily XII, non-arginine-aspartate (non-RD) LRR-RLK. Virus-induced gene silencing resulted in a two-fold reduction of transcript levels as compared to controls. Transcriptomic comparison of leaves from untreated plants, from plants treated with virus only without any plant sequences (referred to as 'empty virus' control), and from plants in which AK249842 expression was knocked down identified numerous genes involved in pathogen defense. These genes were strongly induced in 'empty virus' as compared to untreated controls, but their expression was significantly reduced (again compared to 'empty virus' controls) when AK249842 was knocked down, indicating that their expression partially depends on the LRR-RLK investigated here. Expression analysis, using datasets from BarleyBase/PLEXdb, demonstrated that AK249842 transcript levels are heavily influenced by the allelic state of the well-characterized mildew resistance a (Mla) locus, and that the gene is induced after powdery mildew and stem rust infection. Together, our data suggest that AK249842 is a barley pattern recognition receptor with a tentative role in defense against fungal pathogens, setting the stage for its full functional characterization.
Nitrogen (N) is the most common limiting factor for crop productivity worldwide. An effective approach to solve N deficiency is to develop low N (LN) tolerant crop cultivars. Tibetan annual wild barley is well-known for its wide genetic diversity and high tolerance to poor soil fertility. Up to date, no study has been done to illustrate the mechanism of LN tolerance underlying the wild barley at transcriptional level. In this study, we employed Illumina RNA-Sequencing to determine the genotypic difference in transcriptome profile using two Tibetan wild barley genotypes differing in LN tolerance (XZ149, tolerant and XZ56, sensitive). A total of 1469 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the two genotypes at 6 h and 48 h after LN treatment. Genetic difference existed in DEGs between XZ149 and XZ56, including transporters, transcription factors (TFs), kinases, antioxidant stress and hormone signaling related genes. Meanwhile, 695 LN tolerance-associated DEGs were mainly mapped to amino acid metabolism, starch and sucrose metabolism and secondary metabolism, and involved in transporter activity, antioxidant activities, and other gene ontology (GO). XZ149 had a higher capability of N absorption and use efficiency under LN stress than XZ56. The higher expression of nitrate transporters and energy-saving assimilation pattern could be attributed to its more N uptake and higher LN tolerance. In addition, auxin (IAA) and ethylene (ETH) response pathways may be also related to the genotypic difference in LN tolerance. The responses of XZ149 and XZ56 to LN stress differed dramatically at transcriptional level. The identified candidate genes related to LN tolerance may provide new insights into comprehensive understanding of the genotypic difference in N utilization and LN tolerance.
The Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia, an invasive phytotoxic pest of wheat, Triticum aestivum, and barley, Hordeum vulgare, causes huge economic losses in Africa, South America, and North America. Most acceptable and ecologically beneficial aphid management strategies include selection and breeding of D. noxia-resistant varieties, and numerous D. noxia resistance genes have been identified in T. aestivum and H. vulgare. North American D. noxia biotype 1 is avirulent to T. aestivum varieties possessing Dn4 or Dn7 genes, while biotype 2 is virulent to Dn4 and avirulent to Dn7. The current investigation utilized next-generation RNAseq technology to reveal that biotype 2 over expresses proteins involved in calcium signaling, which activates phosphoinositide (PI) metabolism. Calcium signaling proteins comprised 36% of all transcripts identified in the two D. noxia biotypes. Depending on plant resistance gene-aphid biotype interaction, additional transcript groups included those involved in tissue growth; defense and stress response; zinc ion and related cofactor binding; and apoptosis. Activation of enzymes involved in PI metabolism by D. noxia biotype 2 aphids allows depletion of plant calcium that normally blocks aphid feeding sites in phloem sieve elements and enables successful, continuous feeding on plants resistant to avirulent biotype 1. Inhibition of the key enzyme phospholipase C significantly reduced biotype 2 salivation into phloem and phloem sap ingestion.
Powdery mildew, caused by the biotrophic fungal pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici, is a major limitation for the production of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum). However, to date, the transcriptional regulation of bread wheat defense against powdery mildew remains largely unknown. Here, we report the function and molecular mechanism of the bread wheat Mediator subunit 25 (TaMED25) in regulating the bread wheat immune response signaling pathway. Three homoalleles of TaMED25 from bread wheat were identified and mapped to chromosomes 5A, 5B, and 5D, respectively. We show that knockdown of TaMED25 by barley stripe mosaic virus-induced gene silencing reduced bread wheat susceptibility to the powdery mildew fungus during the compatible plant-pathogen interaction. Moreover, our results indicate that MED25 may play a conserved role in regulating bread wheat and barley (Hordeum vulgare) susceptibility to powdery mildew. Similarly, bread wheat ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3-LIKE1 (TaEIL1), an ortholog of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3, negatively regulates bread wheat resistance against powdery mildew. Using various approaches, we demonstrate that the conserved activator-interacting domain of TaMED25 interacts physically with the separate amino- and carboxyl-terminal regions of TaEIL1, contributing to the transcriptional activation activity of TaEIL1. Furthermore, we show that TaMED25 and TaEIL1 synergistically activate ETHYLENE RESPONSE FACTOR1 (TaERF1) transcription to modulate bread wheat basal disease resistance to B. graminis f. sp. tritici by repressing the expression of pathogenesis-related genes and deterring the accumulation of reactive oxygen species. Collectively, we identify the TaMED25-TaEIL1-TaERF1 signaling module as a negative regulator of bread wheat resistance to powdery mildew.
Chemical mutagenesis induces variations that may assist in the identification of targets for adaptation to growth under atmospheric CO2 enrichment. The aim of this work was to characterize the limitations causing reduced photosynthetic capacity in G132 mutagenized barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Graphic) grown in a glasshouse. Compared to the wild type (WT) G132 showed increased transcript levels for the PSII light harvesting complex, but lower levels of chlorophyll, transcripts for protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase A and psbQ, and PSII quantum efficiency in young leaves. Rubisco limitation had an overriding influence on G132 photosynthesis, and was due to strong and selective decreases in Rubisco protein and activity. These reductions were accompanied by enhanced Rubisco transcripts, but increased levels of a Rubisco degradation product. G132 showed lower levels of carbohydrates, amino acids and corresponding transcripts, and proteins, but not of nitrate. Many of the measured parameters recovered in the mutant as development progressed, or decreased less than in the WT, indicating that senescence was delayed. G132 had a longer growth period than the WT and similar final plant dry matter. The reduced resource investment in Rubisco of G132 may prove useful for studies on barley adaptation to elevated CO2 and climate change.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seed germination initiates many important biological processes such as DNA, membrane and mitochondrial repairs. However, little is known on cell wall modifications in germinating embryos. We have investigated cell wall polysaccharide composition change, gene transcription and alternative splicing events in four barley varieties at 24h and 48 h germination. Cell wall components in germinating barley embryos changed rapidly, with increases in cellulose and (1,3)(1,4)-β-D-glucan (20-100%) within 24h, but decreases in heteroxylan and arabinan (3-50%). There were also significant changes in the levels of type I arabinogalactans and heteromannans. Alternative splicing played very important roles in cell wall modifications. At least 22 cell wall transcripts were detected to undergo either alternative 3' splicing, alternative 5' splicing or intron retention type of alternative splicing. These genes coded enzymes catalyzing synthesis and degradation of cellulose, heteroxylan, (1,3)(1,4)-β-D-glucan and other cell wall polymers. Furthermore, transcriptional regulation also played very important roles in cell wall modifications. Transcript levels of primary wall cellulase synthase, heteroxylan synthesizing and nucleotide sugar inter-conversion genes were very high in germinating embryos. At least 50 cell wall genes changed transcript levels significantly. Expression patterns of many cell wall genes coincided with changes in polysaccharide composition. Our data showed that cell wall polysaccharide metabolism was very active in germinating barley embryos, which was regulated at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels.
Together with auxins, cytokinins are the main plant hormones involved in many different physiological processes. Given this knowledge, cytokinin levels can be manipulated by genetic modification in order to improve agronomic parameters of cereals in relation to, for example, morphology, yield, and tolerance to various stresses. The barley (Hordeum vulgare) cultivar Golden Promise was transformed using the cytokinin dehydrogenase 1 gene from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtCKX1) under the control of mild root-specific β-glucosidase promoter from maize. Increased cytokinin degradation activity was observed positively to affect the number and length of lateral roots. The impact on morphology depended upon the recombinant protein's subcellular compartmentation. While assumed cytosolic and vacuolar targeting of AtCKX1 had negligible effect on shoot growth, secretion of AtCKX1 protein to the apoplast had a negative effect on development of the aerial part and yield. Upon the application of severe drought stress, all transgenic genotypes maintained higher water content and showed better growth and yield parameters during revitalization. Higher tolerance to drought stress was most caused by altered root morphology resulting in better dehydration avoidance.
Within the cereal grain, the endosperm and its nutrient reserves are critical for successful germination and in the context of grain utilization. The identification of molecular determinants of early endosperm development, particularly regulators of cell division and cell wall deposition, would help predict end-use properties such as yield, quality, and nutritional value. Custom microarray data have been generated using RNA isolated from developing barley grain endosperm 3 d to 8 d after pollination (DAP). Comparisons of transcript abundance over time revealed 47 gene expression modules that can be clustered into 10 broad groups. Superimposing these modules upon cytological data allowed patterns of transcript abundance to be linked with key stages of early grain development. Here, attention was focused on how the datasets could be mined to explore and define the processes of cell wall biosynthesis, remodeling, and degradation. Using a combination of spatial molecular network and gene ontology enrichment analyses, it is shown that genes involved in cell wall metabolism are found in multiple modules, but cluster into two main groups that exhibit peak expression at 3 DAP to 4 DAP and 5 DAP to 8 DAP. The presence of transcription factor genes in these modules allowed candidate genes for the control of wall metabolism during early barley grain development to be identified. The data are publicly available through a dedicated web interface (https://ics.hutton.ac.uk/barseed/), where they can be used to interrogate co- and differential expression for any other genes, groups of genes, or transcription factors expressed during early endosperm development.
We uncouple host and nonhost resistance in barley to Puccinia striiformis ff. spp. hordei and tritici . We isolate, fine map, and physically anchor Rps6 to chromosome 7H in barley. A plant may be considered a nonhost of a pathogen if all known genotypes of a plant species are resistant to all known isolates of a pathogen species. However, if a small number of genotypes are susceptible to some known isolates of a pathogen species this plant may be considered an intermediate host. Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is an intermediate host for Puccinia striiformis f. sp. tritici (Pst), the causal agent of wheat stripe rust. We wanted to understand the genetic architecture underlying resistance to Pst and to determine whether any overlap exists with resistance to the host pathogen, Puccinia striiformis f. sp. hordei (Psh). We mapped Pst resistance to chromosome 7H and show that host and intermediate host resistance is genetically uncoupled. Therefore, we designate this resistance locus Rps6. We used phenotypic and genotypic selection on F2:3 families to isolate Rps6 and fine mapped the locus to a 0.1 cM region. Anchoring of the Rps6 locus to the barley physical map placed the region on a single fingerprinted contig spanning a physical region of 267 kb. Efforts are now underway to sequence the minimal tiling path and to delimit the physical region harboring Rps6. This will facilitate additional marker development and permit identification of candidate genes in the region.
The drought-stimulated gene expression of NCED, SUS, and KS - DHN and ABA signal cross-talk with other phytohormones maintains barley root growth under drought stress at pH 4.0 plus polyethylene glycol plus aluminum. Aluminum (Al) toxicity and drought are two major factors that limit barley production. In this work, the individual and combined effects of Al/acid and polyethylene glycol (PEG 6000) induced drought stress that suppressed root growth and caused oxidative damage as characterized by increased H2O2 and O2(.-) accumulation. The wild-barley genotypes, XZ5 and XZ29, exhibited a higher tolerance than the two cultivars Dayton (Al tolerant) and Tadmor (drought tolerant) under combined stress (pH 4.0 + PEG + Al). The oxidative damage induced by PEG was more severe at pH 4.0 than at pH 6.0. In XZ29, the highest root secretion of malate and citrate was recorded, and the least Al uptake in the four genotypes. In XZ5, a peak accumulation of ABA and minor synthesis of zeatin riboside and ethylene were found being essential in maintaining primary root elongation and root hair development. PEG-induced drought stress repressed Al uptake in root tips, with a lower increase in callose formation and HvMATE (Hordeum vulgare multidrug and toxic compound exudation) expression compared to Al-induced callose production. Stress by pH 4.0 + PEG + Al up-regulated 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (NCED) which is involved in ABA biosynthesis. Such treatment stimulated the regulation of ABA-dependent genes sucrose synthase (SUS) and KS-type dehydrin (KS-DHN) in root tips. Our results suggest that the tolerance ranking to pH 4.0 + PEG + Al stress in Tibetan wild barley by gene expression is closely correlated to physiological indices. The results show that acclimatisation to pH 4.0 + PEG + Al stress involves specific responses in XZ5 and XZ29. The present study provides insights into the effects of Al/acid and drought combined stress on the abundance of physiological indices in the roots of barley varieties.
One of the strategies of plant adaptation to stress is the modulation of gene expression, which may result from the regulation of DNA methylation. This study attempted to characterize and compare the barley methylome of leaves and roots under water-deficiency treatment and in the subsequent rewatering phase. Our results, obtained using methylation-sensitive amplification polymorphism sequencing analysis, indicated that the overall DNA methylation level in the barley genome was high and in general stable under water-deficiency conditions. Nevertheless, numerous differentially methylated sites (DMSs) were induced by stress in the leaves and roots. Equal proportions of novel stress-induced methylation and demethylation events were observed within the genes in the leaves, but new methylations dominated in the roots. Repetitive elements preferentially underwent demethylation in the leaves and novel methylations in the roots. Importantly, rewatering and plant recovery resulted in the reversibility of the majority of stress-induced methylation events, but this process was more efficient in the leaves than in the roots. Different biological processes were enriched within the subsets of the DMSs that were identified in the genic regions of leaves and roots. We assume that the organ specificity of the methylome changes in response to water deficiency might be an important regulatory mechanism that leads to multi-level mechanisms of stress tolerance in barley.
Drought stress in juvenile stages of crop development and premature leaf senescence induced by drought stress have an impact on biomass production and yield formation of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Therefore, in order to get information of regulatory processes involved in the adaptation to drought stress and leaf senescence expression analyses of candidate genes were conducted on a set of 156 barley genotypes in early developmental stages, and expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) were identified by a genome wide association study. Significant effects of genotype and treatment were detected for leaf colour measured at BBCH 25 as an indicator of leaf senescence and for the expression level of the genes analysed. Furthermore, significant correlations were detected within the group of genes involved in drought stress (r = 0.84) and those acting in leaf senescence (r = 0.64), as well as between leaf senescence genes and the leaf colour (r = 0.34). Based on these expression data and 3,212 polymorphic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) with a minor allele frequency >5% derived from the Illumina 9 k iSelect SNP Chip, eight cis eQTL and seven trans eQTL were found. Out of these an eQTL located on chromosome 3H at 142.1 cM is of special interest harbouring two drought stress genes (GAD3 and P5CS2) and one leaf senescence gene (Contig7437), as well as an eQTL on chromosome 5H at 44.5 cM in which two genes (TRIUR3 and AVP1) were identified to be associated to drought stress tolerance in a previous study. With respect to the expression of genes involved in drought stress and early leaf senescence, genotypic differences exist in barley. Major eQTL for the expression of these genes are located on barley chromosome 3H and 5H. Respective markers may be used in future barley breeding programmes for improving tolerance to drought stress and leaf senescence.
The species Xanthomonas translucens encompasses a complex of bacterial strains that cause diseases and yield loss on grass species including important cereal crops. Three pathovars, X. translucens pv. undulosa, X. translucens pv. translucens and X. translucens pv.cerealis, have been described as pathogens of wheat, barley, and oats. However, no complete genome sequence for a strain of this complex is currently available. A complete genome sequence of X. translucens pv. undulosa strain XT4699 was obtained by using PacBio long read, single molecule, real time (SMRT) DNA sequences and Illumina sequences. Draft genome sequences of nineteen additional X. translucens strains, which were collected from wheat or barley in different regions and at different times, were generated by Illumina sequencing. Phylogenetic relationships among different Xanthomonas strains indicates that X. translucens are members of a distinct clade from so-called group 2 xanthomonads and three pathovars of this species, undulosa, translucens and cerealis, represent distinct subclades in the group 1 clade. Knockout mutation of type III secretion system of XT4699 eliminated the ability to cause water-soaking symptoms on wheat and barley and resulted in a reduction in populations on wheat in comparison to the wild type strain. Sequence comparison of X. translucens strains revealed the genetic variation on type III effector repertories among different pathovars or within one pathovar. The full genome sequence of XT4699 reveals the presence of eight members of the Transcription-Activator Like (TAL) effector genes, which are phylogenetically distant from previous known TAL effector genes of group 2 xanthomonads. Microarray and qRT-PCR analyses revealed TAL effector-specific wheat gene expression modulation. PacBio long read sequencing facilitates the assembly of Xanthomonas genomes and the multiple TAL effector genes, which are difficult to assemble from short read platforms. The complete genome sequence of X. translucens pv. undulosa strain XT4699 and draft genome sequences of nineteen additional X. translucens strains provides a resource for further genetic analyses of pathogenic diversity and host range of the X. translucens species complex. TAL effectors of XT4699 strain play roles in modulating wheat host gene expressions.
C-repeat binding factor 14 (CBF14) is a plant transcription factor that regulates a set of cold-induced genes, contributing to enhanced frost tolerance during cold acclimation. Many CBF genes are induced by cool temperatures and regulated by day length and light quality, which affect the amount of accumulated freezing tolerance. Here we show that a low red to far-red ratio in white light enhances CBF14 expression and increases frost tolerance at 15°C in winter Triticum aesitivum and Hordeum vulgare genotypes, but not in T. monococcum (einkorn), which has a relatively low freezing tolerance. Low red to far-red ratio enhances the expression of PHYA in all three species, but induces PHYB expression only in einkorn. Based on our results, a model is proposed to illustrate the supposed positive effect of phytochrome A and the negative influence of phytochrome B on the enhancement of freezing tolerance in cereals in response to spectral changes of incident light. CBF-regulon, barley, cereals, cold acclimation, freezing tolerance, light regulation, low red/far-red ratio, phytochrome, wheat.
Modular proteins are an evolutionary answer to optimize performance of proteins that physically interact with each other for functionality. Using a combination of genetic and biochemical experiments, we characterized the rice protein OsJAC1, which consists of a jacalin-related lectin (JRL) domain predicted to bind mannose-containing oligosaccharides, and a dirigent domain which might function in stereoselective coupling of monolignols. Transgenic overexpression of OsJAC1 in rice resulted in quantitative broad-spectrum resistance against different pathogens including bacteria, oomycetes, and fungi. Overexpression of this gene or its wheat ortholog TAJA1 in barley enhanced resistance against the powdery mildew fungus. Both protein domains of OsJAC1 are required to establish resistance as indicated by single or combined transient expression of individual domains. Expression of artificially separated and fluorescence-tagged protein domains showed that the JRL domain is sufficient for targeting the powdery mildew penetration site. Nevertheless, co-localization of the lectin and the dirigent domain occurred. Phylogenetic analyses revealed orthologs of OsJAC1 exclusively within the Poaceae plant family. Dicots, by contrast, only contain proteins with either JRL or dirigent domain(s). Altogether, our results identify OsJAC1 as a representative of a novel type of resistance protein derived from a plant lineage-specific gene fusion event for better function in local pathogen defense.
Fusarium graminearum is a broad host pathogen threatening cereal crops in temperate regions around the world. To better understand how F. graminearum adapts to different hosts, we have performed a comparison of the transcriptome of a single strain of F. graminearum during early infection (up to 4 d post-inoculation) of barley, maize, and wheat using custom oligomer microarrays. Our results showed high similarity between F. graminearum transcriptomes in infected wheat and barley spike tissues. Quantitative RT-PCR was used to validate the gene expression profiles of 24 genes. Host-specific expression of genes was observed in each of the three hosts. This included expression of distinct sets of genes associated with transport and secondary metabolism in each of the three crops, as well as host-specific patterns for particular gene categories such as sugar transporters, integral membrane protein PTH11-like proteins, and chitinases. This study identified 69 F. graminearum genes as preferentially expressed in developing maize kernels relative to wheat and barley spikes. These host-specific differences showcase the genomic flexibility of F. graminearum to adapt to a range of hosts.
Transcriptional activation of anthocyanin biosynthesis genes in vegetative tissues of monocotyledonous plants is mediated by cooperative activity of one component from each of the following two transcription factor families: MYB encoded by PURPLE PLANT1/COLORED ALEURONE1 (PL1/C1), and basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) encoded by RED/BOOSTER (R1/B1). In the present study, putative PL cDNA was cloned from the wheat (Triticum aestivum) cultivar Iksan370, which preferentially expresses anthocyanins in coleoptiles. Phylogenetic tree analysis of deduced amino acid sequences showed that a putative TaPL1 is highly homologous to barley (Hordeum vulgare) HvPL1, but is distinct from wheat TaC1. Transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana stably expressing putative TaPL1 accumulated anthocyanin pigments in leaves and up-regulated structural genes involved in both early and late anthocyanin biosynthesis steps. TaPL1 transcript levels in Iksan370 were more prominent in vegetative tissues such as young coleoptiles than in reproductive tissues such as spikelets. TaPL1 expression was significantly up-regulated by environmental stresses including cold, salt, and light, which are known to induce anthocyanin accumulation. These combined results suggest that TaPL1 is an active positive regulator of anthocyanin biosynthesis in wheat coleoptiles.
Shoot regeneration in calli derived from immature barley embryos is regulated by light conditions during the callus-induction period. Barley cultivars Kanto Nijo-5 (KN5) and K-3 (K3) showed lower efficiency of shoot regeneration in a 16-h photoperiod during callus-induction than those in continuous darkness, whereas shoot regeneration was enhanced in cultures under a 16-h photoperiod in Golden Promise (GP) and Lenins (LN). These cultivars were classified as photo-inhibition type (KN5 and K3) or photo-induction type (GP and LN) according to their response to light. Contents of endogenous plant hormones were determined in calli cultured under a 16-h photoperiod and continuous darkness. In photo-inhibition type, higher accumulation of abscisic acid (ABA) was detected in calli cultured under a 16-h photoperiod, whereas calli showed lower levels of endogenous ABA in continuous darkness. However, cultivars of photo-induction type showed lower levels of ABA in calli cultured under both light conditions, similarly to photo-inhibition type in continuous darkness. Exogenous ABA inhibited the callus growth and shoot regeneration independent of light conditions in all cultivars. In photo-inhibition type, lower levels of endogenous ABA induced by ABA biosynthesis inhibitor, fluridone, reduced the photo-inhibition of shoot regeneration. Expression of ABA biosynthesis gene, HvNCED1, in calli was regulated by the light conditions. Higher expression was observed in calli cultured under a 16-h photoperiod. These results indicate that ABA biosynthesis could be activated through the higher expression of HvNCED1 in a 16-h photoperiod and that the higher accumulations of ABA inhibit shoot regeneration in the photo-inhibition type cultivars.
Four members of the UDP-Ara mutase (UAM) gene family from barley have been isolated and characterized, and their map positions on chromosomes 2H, 3H, and 4H have been defined. When the genes are expressed in Escherichia coli, the corresponding HvUAM1, HvUAM2, and HvUAM3 proteins exhibit UAM activity, and the kinetic properties of the enzymes have been determined, including Km, Kcat, and catalytic efficiencies. However, the expressed HvUAM4 protein shows no mutase activity against UDP-Ara or against a broad range of other nucleotide sugars and related molecules. The enzymic data indicate therefore that the HvUAM4 protein may not be a mutase. However, the HvUAM4 gene is transcribed at high levels in all the barley tissues examined, and its transcript abundance is correlated with transcript levels for other genes involved in cell wall biosynthesis. The UDP-l-Arap → UDP-l-Araf reaction, which is essential for the generation of the UDP-Araf substrate for arabinoxylan, arabinogalactan protein, and pectic polysaccharide biosynthesis, is thermodynamically unfavorable and has an equilibrium constant of 0.02. Nevertheless, the incorporation of Araf residues into nascent polysaccharides clearly occurs at biologically appropriate rates. The characterization of the HvUAM genes opens the way for the manipulation of both the amounts and fine structures of heteroxylans in cereals, grasses, and other crop plants, with a view toward enhancing their value in human health and nutrition, and in renewable biofuel production.
Microbial protein synthesis in the rumen would be optimized when dietary carbohydrates and proteins have synchronized rates and extent of degradation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of varying ruminal degradation rate of energy and nitrogen sources on intake, nitrogen balance, microbial protein yield, and kinetics of nutrients in the rumen of growing kids. Eight Boer goats (38.2 ± 3.0 kg) were used. The treatments were arranged in a split-plot Latin square design with grain sources (barley or corn) forming the main plots (squares). Grain processing methods and levels of protein degradability formed the subplots in a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement for a total of 8 dietary treatments. The grain processing method was rolling for barley and cracking for corn. Levels of protein degradability were obtained by feeding untreated soybean meal (SBM) or heat-treated soybean meal (HSBM). Each experimental period lasted 21 d, consisting of a 10-d adaptation period, a 7-d digestibility determination period, and a 4-d rumen evacuation and sampling period. Kids fed with corn had higher purine derivatives (PD) excretion when coupled with SBM compared with HSBM and the opposite occurred with barley-fed kids ( ≤ 0.01). Unprocessed grain offered with SBM led to higher PD excretion than with HSBM whereas protein degradability had no effect when processed grain was fed ( ≤ 0.03). Results of the current experiment with high-concentrate diets showed that microbial N synthesis could be maximized in goat kids by combining slowly fermented grains (corn or unprocessed grains) with a highly degradable protein supplement (SBM). With barley, a more rapidly fermented grain, a greater microbial N synthesis was observed when supplementing a low-degradable protein (HSBM).
Ferredoxin is a small iron-sulfer protein involved in various one-eletron transfer pathways. Little is known about how ferredoxin is regulated to distribute electron under abiotic stress. Our previous study has showed that HbCIPK2 conferred salinity and drought tolerance. Thus, we hypothesized that HbCIPK2 could mediate the activities of interacting partners as a signal transducer. In this report, we identified a novel HbCIPK2-interacting ferredoxin (HbFd1) from halophyte Hordeum brevisubulatum by yeast two-hybrid screens, confirmed this interaction by BiFC in vivo and CoIP in vitro, and presented the expression pattern of HbFd1. HbFd1 was down-regulated under salinity and cold stress but up-regulated under PEG stress, its expression showed tissue-specific, mainly in shoot chloroplast, belonging to leaf-type subgroup. Moreover, HbCIPK2 could recruit HbFd1 to the nucleus for their interaction. The C-terminal segment in HbFd1 protein was involved in the interaction with HbCIPK2. These results provided insight into the connection between CBL-CIPK signaling network and Fd-dependent metabolic pathways.
Hulless barley is an important crop cereal in Tibetan, China. Drought is a major abiotic stress in barley production. In this study, we cloned the drought-related HbSINA4 gene from the variety 'Himalaya 10' and analyzed its expression patterns under different drought and rehydration conditions. The cDNA of HbSINA4 was 1052 bp long, including an open reading frame of 771 bp that encoded a protein of 256 amino acids. The molecular weight of HbSINA4 protein was predicted to be 29.53 kDa and the theoretical pI was 8.32. Bioinformatic analysis showed that the HbSINA4 gene contained a protein kinase domain profile family signature motif, with high similarity to that of Oryza sativa and Brachypodium distachyon. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays revealed that gene expression declined rapidly with increasing drought stress; in contrast, its expression increased after rehydration treatment. Therefore, the HbSINA4 gene responds to the drought stress and plays an important role in barely drought resistance. Furthermore, our results provide information which may be useful in other temperate crop studies and in aiding resistance to drought.
An important part of the root system is the root hairs, which play a role in mineral and water uptake. Here, we present an analysis of the transcriptomic response to water deficiency of the wild-type (WT) barley cultivar 'Karat' and its root-hairless mutant rhl1.a. A comparison of the transcriptional changes induced by water stress resulted in the identification of genes whose expression was specifically affected in each genotype. At the onset of water stress, more genes were modulated by water shortage in the roots of the WT plants than in the roots of rhl1.a. The roots of the WT plants, but not of rhl1.a, specifically responded with the induction of genes that are related to the abscisic acid biosynthesis, stomatal closure, and cell wall biogenesis, thus indicating the specific activation of processes that are related to water-stress signalling and protection. On the other hand, the processes involved in the further response to abiotic stimuli, including hydrogen peroxide, heat, and high light intensity, were specifically up-regulated in the leaves of rhl1.a. An extended period of severe stress caused more drastic transcriptome changes in the roots and leaves of the rhl1.a mutant than in those of the WT. These results are in agreement with the much stronger damage to photosystem II in the rhl1.a mutant than in its parent cultivar after 10 d of water stress. Taking into account the putative stress sensing and signalling features of the root hair transcriptome, we discuss the role of root hairs as sensors of environmental conditions.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) promote the germination of several seeds, and antioxidants suppress it. However, questions remain regarding the role and production mechanism of ROS in seed germination. Here, we focused on NADPH oxidases, which produce ROS. After imbibition, NADPH oxidase mRNAs were expressed in the embryo and in aleurone cells of barley seed; these expression sites were consistent with the sites of ROS production in the seed after imbibition. To clarify the role of NADPH oxidases in barley seed germination, we examined gibberellic acid (GA) / abscisic acid (ABA) metabolism and signaling in barley seeds treated with diphenylene iodonium chloride (DPI), an NADPH oxidase inhibitor. DPI significantly suppressed germination, and suppressed GA biosynthesis and ABA catabolism in embryos. GA, but not ABA, induced NADPH oxidase activity in aleurone cells. Additionally, DPI suppressed the early induction of α-amylase by GA in aleurone cells. These results suggest that ROS produced by NADPH oxidases promote GA biosynthesis in embryos, that GA induces and activates NADPH oxidases in aleurone cells, and that ROS produced by NADPH oxidases induce α-amylase in aleurone cells. We conclude that the ROS generated by NADPH oxidases regulate barley seed germination through GA / ABA metabolism and signaling in embryo and aleurone cells.
sdw1/denso is one of the most important and useful semi-dwarf genes in barley breeding. At least four sdw1/denso alleles have been reported and HvGA20ox 2 is considered as the candidate gene. Up to date, results of studies have not univocally proven the genetic relationship between sdw1/denso and HvGA20ox 2 . In the present study, a complete deletion of Morex_contig_40861 including both HvGA20ox 2 and Mloc_56463 genes was identified at the sdw1 locus from a semi-dwarf mutant Riso no. 9265. Expression of the genes encoding gibberellin biosynthesis (HvGA20ox 1 and HvGA3ox 2 ) were increased in the mutant compared to the wild type Bomi, while the expression of GA catabolic gene HvGA2ox 3 was decreased. Over-expression of HvGA20ox 2 could rescue the semi-dwarf phenotype and increase GAs concentration. We confirmed that a GA biosynthetic enzyme HvGA20ox2, acted as GA 20-oxidase, is the functional gene for the sdw1/denso semi-dwarfism. Lose of HvGA20ox 2 is partially compensated by HvGA20ox 1 and further feedback is regulated by gibberellin. We also deduced that the sdw1/denso allele itself affects later heading owing to its reduced endogenous GAs concentration.
In barley (Hordeum vulgare), PHOTOPERIOD1 (Ppd-H1) acts as a major positive regulator of flowering under long-day conditions, while VERNALIZATION2 (VRN-H2) is a strong repressor of flowering under long days before vernalization. By contrast, CONSTANS (CO) plays a key role in the photoperiodic regulation of flowering in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Here, we study the role of the closest barley CO homologs, HvCO1 and HvCO2, in the long day-dependent control of flowering and their interactions with Ppd-H1 and VRN-H2. HvCO2 overexpression in spring barley, with a natural deletion of the VRN-H2 locus, caused a Ppd-H1-dependent induction of flowering and FLOWERING LOCUS T1 (HvFT1) expression. In winter barley, which carries the VRN-H2 locus, overexpression of HvCO1/CO2 caused an up-regulation of VRN-H2, resulting in a reduced expression of HvFT1 and delayed flowering under long- and short-day conditions. In addition, natural variation at Ppd-H1 altered the expression of VRN-H2 in wild-type plants under long days. VRN-H2, in turn, was involved in the down-regulation of Ppd-H1 and HvCO2, demonstrating strong reciprocal interactions between HvCO2, Ppd-H1, and VRN-H2. Consequently, this study showed that the induction of the floral repressor VRN-H2 and the floral activator HvFT1 was regulated by the same genes, Ppd-H1 and HvCO1/CO2. Our findings provide a novel insight into the photoperiodic regulation of the vernalization pathway in barley.
Barley, wheat, rice and maize provide the bulk of human nutrition and have extensive industrial use as agricultural products. The genomes of these crops each contains >40,000 genes encoding proteins; however, the major genome databases for these species lack annotation information of protein subcellular location for >80% of these gene products. We address this gap, by constructing the compendium of crop protein subcellular locations called crop Proteins with Annotated Locations (cropPAL). Subcellular location is most commonly determined by fluorescent protein tagging of live cells or mass spectrometry detection in subcellular purifications, but can also be predicted from amino acid sequence or protein expression patterns. The cropPAL database collates 556 published studies, from >300 research institutes in >30 countries that have been previously published, as well as compiling eight pre-computed subcellular predictions for all Hordeum vulgare, Triticum aestivum, Oryza sativa and Zea mays protein sequences. The data collection including metadata for proteins and published studies can be accessed through a search portal http://crop-PAL.org. The subcellular localization information housed in cropPAL helps to depict plant cells as compartmentalized protein networks that can be investigated for improving crop yield and quality, and developing new biotechnological solutions to agricultural challenges.
Rphq2, a minor gene for partial resistance to Puccinia hordei , was physically mapped in a 188 kbp introgression with suppressed recombination between haplotypes of rphq2 and Rphq2 barley cultivars. Partial and non-host resistances to rust fungi in barley (Hordeum vulgare) may be based on pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP)-triggered immunity. Understanding partial resistance may help to understand non-host resistance, and vice versa. We constructed two non-gridded BAC libraries from cultivar Vada and line SusPtrit. Vada is immune to non-adapted Puccinia rust fungi, and partially resistant to P. hordei. SusPtrit is susceptible to several non-adapted rust fungi, and has been used for mapping QTLs for non-host and partial resistance. The BAC libraries help to identify genes determining the natural variation for partial and non-host resistances of barley to rust fungi. A major-effect QTL, Rphq2, for partial resistance to P. hordei was mapped in a complete Vada and an incomplete SusPtrit contig. The physical distance between the markers flanking Rphq2 was 195 Kbp in Vada and at least 226 Kbp in SusPtrit. This marker interval was predicted to contain 12 genes in either accession, of which only five genes were in common. The haplotypes represented by Vada and SusPtrit were found in 57 and 43%, respectively, of a 194 barley accessions panel. The lack of homology between the two haplotypes probably explains the suppression of recombination in the Rphq2 area and limit further genetic resolution in fine mapping. The possible candidate genes for Rphq2 encode peroxidases, kinases and a member of seven-in-absentia protein family. This result suggests that Rphq2 does not belong to the NB-LRR gene family and does not resemble any of the partial resistance genes cloned previously.
In addition to the micronutrient inadequacy of staple crops for optimal human nutrition, a global downtrend in crop-quality has emerged from intensive breeding for yield. This trend will be aggravated by elevated levels of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide. Therefore, crop biofortification is inevitable to ensure a sustainable supply of minerals to the large part of human population who is dietary dependent on staple crops. This requires a thorough understanding of plant-mineral interactions due to the complexity of mineral homeostasis. Employing RNA sequencing, we here communicate transfer cell specific effects of excess iron and zinc during grain filling in our model crop plant barley. Responding to alterations in mineral contents, we found a long range of different genes and transcripts. Among them, it is worth to highlight the auxin and ethylene signaling factors Arfs, Abcbs, Cand1, Hps4, Hac1, Ecr1, and Ctr1, diurnal fluctuation components Sdg2, Imb1, Lip1, and PhyC, retroelements, sulfur homeostasis components Amp1, Hmt3, Eil3, and Vip1, mineral trafficking components Med16, Cnnm4, Aha2, Clpc1, and Pcbps, and vacuole organization factors Ymr155W, RabG3F, Vps4, and Cbl3. Our analysis introduces new interactors and signifies a broad spectrum of regulatory levels from chromatin remodeling to intracellular protein sorting mechanisms active in the plant mineral homeostasis. The results highlight the importance of storage proteins in metal ion toxicity-resistance and chelation. Interestingly, the protein sorting and recycling factors Exoc7, Cdc1, Sec23A, and Rab11A contributed to the response as well as the polar distributors of metal-transporters ensuring the directional flow of minerals. Alternative isoform switching was found important for plant adaptation and occurred among transcripts coding for identical proteins as well as transcripts coding for protein isoforms. We also identified differences in the alternative-isoform preference between the treatments, indicating metal-affinity shifts among isoforms of metal transporters. Most important, we found the zinc treatment to impair both photosynthesis and respiration. A wide range of transcriptional changes including stress-related genes and negative feedback loops emphasize the importance to withhold mineral contents below certain cellular levels which otherwise might lead to agronomical impeding side-effects. By illustrating new mechanisms, genes, and transcripts, this report provides a solid platform towards understanding the complex network of plant mineral homeostasis.
PGSB (Plant Genome and Systems Biology: formerly MIPS) PlantsDB (http://pgsb.helmholtz-muenchen.de/plant/index.jsp) is a database framework for the comparative analysis and visualization of plant genome data. The resource has been updated with new data sets and types as well as specialized tools and interfaces to address user demands for intuitive access to complex plant genome data. In its latest incarnation, we have re-worked both the layout and navigation structure and implemented new keyword search options and a new BLAST sequence search functionality. Actively involved in corresponding sequencing consortia, PlantsDB has dedicated special efforts to the integration and visualization of complex triticeae genome data, especially for barley, wheat and rye. We enhanced CrowsNest, a tool to visualize syntenic relationships between genomes, with data from the wheat sub-genome progenitor Aegilops tauschii and added functionality to the PGSB RNASeqExpressionBrowser. GenomeZipper results were integrated for the genomes of barley, rye, wheat and perennial ryegrass and interactive access is granted through PlantsDB interfaces. Data exchange and cross-linking between PlantsDB and other plant genome databases is stimulated by the transPLANT project (http://transplantdb.eu/).
For successful biocontrol interactions, biological control organisms must tolerate toxic metabolites produced by themselves or plant pathogens during mycoparasitic/antagonistic interactions, by host plant during colonization of the plant, and xenobiotics present in the environment. ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters can play a significant role in tolerance of toxic compounds by mediating active transport across the cellular membrane. This paper reports on functional characterization of an ABC transporter ABCG29 in the biocontrol fungus Clonostachys rosea strain IK726. Gene expression analysis showed induced expression of abcG29 during exposure to the Fusarium spp. mycotoxin zearalenone (ZEA) and the fungicides Cantus, Chipco Green and Apron. Expression of abcG29 in C. rosea was significantly higher during C. rosea-C. rosea (Cr-Cr) interaction or in exposure to C. rosea culture filtrate for 2 h, compared to interaction with Fusarium graminearum or 2 h exposure to F. graminearum culture filtrate. In contrast with gene expression data, ΔabcG29 strains did not display reduced tolerance towards ZEA, fungicides or chemical agents known for inducing oxidative, cell wall or osmotic stress, compared to C. rosea WT. The exception was a significant reduction in tolerance to H2O2 (10 mM) in ΔabcG29 strains when conidia were used as an inoculum. The antagonistic ability of ΔabcG29 strains towards F. graminearum, Fusarium oxysporum or Botrytis cinerea in dual plate assays were not different compared with WT. However, in biocontrol assays ΔabcG29 strains displayed reduced ability to protect Arabidopsis thaliana leaves from B. cinerea, and barley seedling from F. graminearum as measured by an A. thaliana detached leaf assay and a barley foot rot disease assay, respectively. These data show that the ABCG29 is dispensable for ZEA and fungicides tolerance, and antagonism but not H2O2 tolerance and biocontrol effects in C. rosea.
Understanding the mechanism of low Cd accumulation in crops is crucial for sustainable safe food production in Cd-contaminated soils. Confocal microscopy, atomic absorption spectrometry, gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence analyses revealed a distinct difference in Cd accumulation and tolerance between the two contrasting barley genotypes: W6nk2 (a low-grain-Cd-accumulating and Cd-sensitive genotype) and Zhenong8 (a high-grain-Cd-accumulating and tolerant genotype). A DNA microarray analysis detected large-scale changes of gene expression in response to Cd stress with a substantial difference between the two genotypes. Cd stress led to higher expression of genes involved in transport, carbohydrate metabolism and signal transduction in the low-grain-Cd-accumulating genotype. Novel transporter genes such as zinc transporter genes were identified as being associated with low Cd accumulation. Quantitative RT-PCR confirmed our microarray data. Furthermore, suppression of the zinc transporter genes HvZIP3 and HvZIP8 by RNAi silencing showed increased Cd accumulation and reduced Zn and Mn concentrations in barley grains. Thus, HvZIP3 and HvZIP8 could be candidate genes related to low-grain-Cd-accumulation. Novel transporter genes such as HvZIP3 and HvZIP8 were identified as being associated with low-grain-Cd-accumulation. In addition to advancing academic knowledge, our findings may also result in potential economic benefits for molecular breeding of low Cd accumulating barley and other crops.
The objective of this study was to determine the antioxidant capacity of polyphenols extracted from black highland barley (BHLPE) in vitro and in vivo. BHLPE was found to have strong superoxide radical, hydroxyl radical and 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl radical-scavenging activity, ferric reducing antioxidant power and moderate metal ion-chelating activity. Compared with a high fat diet (HFD) group, mice that were administered 600mg BHLPE/kg body weight showed significant decreases in total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and the atherosclerosis index, in addition to markedly increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. Furthermore, the antioxidant defense system and antioxidant gene expression were significantly improved in vivo in mice that were administered BHLPE compared with mice in the HFD group. These results suggest that BHLPE has significant potential as a natural antioxidant to promote health and to reduce the risk of disease.
Barley is an attractive vehicle for producing recombinant protein, since it is a readily transformable diploid crop species in which doubled haploids can be routinely generated. High amounts of protein are naturally accumulated in the grain, but optimal endosperm-specific promoters have yet to be perfected. Here, the oat GLOBULIN1 promoter was combined with the legumin B4 (LeB4) signal peptide and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention signal (SE)KDEL. Transgenic barley grain accumulated up to 1.2 g/kg dry weight of recombinant protein (GFP), deposited in small roundish compartments assumed to be ER-derived protein bodies. The molecular farming potential of the system was tested by generating doubled haploid transgenic lines engineered to synthesize the anti-HIV-1 monoclonal antibody 2G12 with up to 160 μg recombinant protein per g grain. The recombinant protein was deposited at the periphery of protein bodies in the form of a mixture of various N-glycans (notably those lacking terminal N-acetylglucosamine residues), consistent with their vacuolar localization. Inspection of protein-A purified antibodies using surface plasmon resonance spectroscopy showed that their equilibrium and kinetic rate constants were comparable to those associated with recombinant 2G12 synthesized in Chinese hamster ovary cells.
In this study, using homology mapping of assembled expressed sequence tags against the genomic data, we identified alternative splicing events in barley. Results demonstrated that intron retention is frequently associated with specific abiotic stresses. Network analysis resulted in discovery of some specific sub-networks between miRNAs and transcription factors in genes with high number of alternative splicing, such as cross talk between SPL2, SPL10 and SPL11 regulated by miR156 and miR157 families. To confirm the alternative splicing events, elongation factor protein (MLOC_3412) was selected followed by experimental verification of the predicted splice variants by Semi quantitative Reverse Transcription PCR (qRT-PCR). Our novel integrative approach opens a new avenue for functional annotation of alternative splicing through regulatory-based network discovery.
Flowering time, vernalization requirement, photoperiod sensitivity and low temperature tolerance are key traits in the Triticeae. We characterized a set of isogenic genetic stocks-representing single and pairwise substitutions of spring alleles at the VRN-H1, VRN-H2 and VRN-H3 loci in a winter barley background-at the structural, functional and phenotypic levels. High density mapping with reference to the barley genome sequence confirmed that in all cases target VRN alleles were present in the near isogenic lines (NILs) and allowed estimates of introgression size (at the genetic and physical levels) and gene content. Expression data corroborated the structural and phenotypic results. The latter confirmed that substitution of a spring allele at any of the VRN loci is sufficient to eliminate vernalization requirement. There was no significant change in low temperature tolerance with substitution of a spring allele at VRN-H2, but there were significant losses in cold tolerance with substitutions at VRN-H1 and VRN-H3. Reductions in cold tolerance are ascribed to an accelerated transition from the vegetative to reproductive state. The set of NILs will be a rich resource for understanding the genetics of vernalization, low temperature tolerance and other traits encoded/regulated by genes within the introgressed intervals.
The hemibiotrophic pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae causes one of the most destructive diseases in cultivated rice. Complex infection-related morphogenesis and production of various effectors are known to be important for successful colonization and disease development. In this study, we characterized the activation of the MoGTI1 transcription factor and its role in infection-related morphogenesis and effector gene expression. The Mogti1 mutant was nonpathogenic, although it was normal in appressorium formation and turgor generation. Close examination showed that Mogti1 was defective in penetration and growth of normal invasive hyphae. Deletion of MoGTI1 affected the expression of the majority of effector genes. The expression of MoGti1 appeared to be controlled by the Mps1 but not Pmk1 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and the mps1 and Mogti1 mutants had similar phenotypes in plant infection and cell wall integrity defects. However, lack of MAPK phosphorylation sites and dispensability of the putative MAPK docking site suggested that MoGti1 is not a direct target of Mps1. Site-specific mutagenesis analyses showed that the putative protein kinase A phosphorylation site was not essential for localization of MoGti1 to the nucleus but important for its normal function. Although the cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) phosphorylation site of MoGti1 is dispensable during vegetative growth and appressorium formation, the S77A mutation affected penetration and invasive growth. Localization of MoGti1(S77A)-green fluorescent protein to the nucleus in late stages of appressorium formation and during invasive growth was not observed, suggesting a stage-specific CDK phosphorylation of MoGti1. Overall, our data indicate that Mps1 may indirectly regulate the expression of MoGti1 in maintaining cell wall integrity, conidiation, and plant infection. MoGti1 is likely a stage-specific target of CDK and plays a crucial role in effector gene expression and morphogenesis related to the development of penetration pegs and invasive hyphae.
Early flowering is an important trait influencing grain yield and quality in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) in short-season cropping regions. However, due to large and complex genomes of these species, direct identification of flowering genes and their molecular characterization remain challenging. Here, we used a bioinformatic approach to predict flowering-related genes in wheat and barley from 190 known Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh.) flowering genes. We identified 900 and 275 putative orthologs in wheat and barley, respectively. The annotated flowering-related genes were clustered into 144 orthologous groups with one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-one, and many-to-many orthology relationships. Our approach was further validated by domain and phylogenetic analyses of flowering-related proteins and comparative analysis of publicly available microarray data sets for in silico expression profiling of flowering-related genes in 13 different developmental stages of wheat and barley. These further analyses showed that orthologous gene pairs in three critical flowering gene families (PEBP, MADS, and BBX) exhibited similar expression patterns among 13 developmental stages in wheat and barley, suggesting similar functions among the orthologous genes with sequence and expression similarities. The predicted candidate flowering genes can be confirmed and incorporated into molecular breeding for early flowering wheat and barley in short-season cropping regions.
The isolates of microorganisms from the rhizosphere of spring barley plants and soil at the use of analytical selection method was isolated. Its isolates on the ability of "nitrogen-fixing activity" was tested. It was shown that isolates of microorganisms had different of the colonies formed and cultural growth on the Eshbi's selective medium as well as the ability to fixing of molecular nitrogen. The different levels of intensity and dynamics of isolates nitrogenase activity in vitro were identified. New isolates of the soil microorganisms complement of the gene pool diazotrophic bacteria. Its isolates are perspectivity for the study as the basis or components of the bacterial fertilizers for the crops.
Tibetan wild barley is a treasure trove of useful genes for crop improvement including abiotic stress tolerance, like drought. Root hair of single-celled structures plays an important role in water and nutrition uptake. Polyethylene-glycol-induced drought stress hydroponic/petri-dish experiments were performed, where root hair morphology and transcriptional characteristics of two contrasting Tibetan wild barley genotypes (drought-tolerant XZ5 and drought-sensitive XZ54) and drought-tolerant cv. Tadmor were compared. Drought-induced root hair growth was only observed in XZ5. Thirty-six drought tolerance-associated genes were identified in XZ5, including 16 genes specifically highly expressed in XZ5 but not Tadmor under drought. The full length cDNA of a novel β-expansin gene (HvEXPB7), being the unique root hair development related gene in the identified genes, was cloned. The sequence comparison indicated that HvEXPB7 carried both DPBB_1 and Pollon_allerg_1 domains. HvEXPB7 is predominantly expressed in roots. Subcellular localization verified that HvEXPB7 is located in the plasma membrane. Barley stripe mosaic virus induced gene silencing (BSMV-VIGS) of HvEXPB7 led to severely suppressed root hairs both under control and drought conditions, and significantly reduced K uptake. These findings highlight and confer the significance of HvEXPB7 in root hair growth under drought stress in XZ5, and provide a novel insight into the genetic basis for drought tolerance in Tibetan wild barley.
Boron (B) is an important micronutrient for plant growth, but is toxic when levels are too high. This commonly occurs in environments with alkaline soils and relatively low rainfall, including many of the cereal growing regions of southern Australia. Four major genetic loci controlling tolerance to high soil B have been identified in the landrace barley, Sahara 3771. Genes underlying two of the loci encode the B transporters HvBot1 and HvNIP2;1. We investigated sequence and expression level diversity in HvBot1 and HvNIP2;1 across barley germplasm, and identified five novel coding sequence alleles for HvBot1. Lines were identified containing either single or multiple copies of the Sahara HvBot1 allele. We established that only the tandemly duplicated Sahara allele conferred B tolerance, and this duplicated allele was found only in a set of nine lines accessioned in Australian collections as Sahara 3763-3771. HvNIP2;1 coding sequences were highly conserved across barley germplasm. We identified the likely causative SNP in the 5'UTR of Sahara HvNIP2;1, and propose that the creation of a small upstream open reading frame interferes with HvNIP2;1 translation in Sahara 3771. Similar to HvBot1, the tolerant HvNIP2;1 allele was unique to the Sahara barley accessions. We identified a new source of the 2H B tolerance allele controlling leaf symptom development, in the landrace Ethiopia 756. Ethiopia 756, as well as the cultivar Sloop Vic which carries both the 2H and HvBot1 B tolerance alleles derived from Sahara 3771, may be valuable as alternative parents in breeding programs targeted to high soil B environments. There is significant diversity in B toxicity tolerance among contemporary Australian barley varieties but this is not related to variation at any of the four known B tolerance loci, indicating that novel, as yet undiscovered, sources of tolerance exist.
The mechanisms of stomatal sensitivity to CO2 are yet to be fully understood. The role of photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic factors in stomatal responses to CO2 was investigated in wild-type barley (Hordeum vulgare var. Graphic) and in a mutant (G132) with decreased photochemical and Rubisco capacities. The CO2 and DCMU responses of stomatal conductance (gs), gas exchange, chlorophyll fluorescence and levels of ATP, with a putative transcript for stomatal opening were analysed. G132 had greater gs than the wild-type, despite lower photosynthesis rates and higher intercellular CO2 concentrations (Ci). The mutant had Rubisco-limited photosynthesis at very high CO2 levels, and higher ATP contents than the wild-type. Stomatal sensitivity to CO2 under red light was lower in G132 than in the wild-type, both in photosynthesizing and DCMU-inhibited leaves. Under constant Ci and red light, stomatal sensitivity to DCMU inhibition was higher in G132. The levels of a SLAH3-like slow anion channel transcript, involved in stomatal closure, decreased sharply in G132. The results suggest that stomatal responses to CO2 depend partly on the balance of photosynthetic electron transport to carbon assimilation capacities, but are partially regulated by the CO2 signalling network. High gs can improve the adaptation to climate change in well-watered conditions.
Salinity is a major limiting factor for agricultural production worldwide. A better understanding of the mechanisms of salinity stress response will aid efforts to improve plant salt tolerance. In this study, a combination of small RNA and mRNA degradome sequencing was used to identify salinity responsive-miRNAs and their targets in barley. A total of 152 miRNAs belonging to 126 families were identified, of which 44 were found to be salinity responsive with 30 up-regulated and 25 down-regulated respectively. The majority of the salinity-responsive miRNAs were up-regulated at the 8h time point, while down-regulated at the 3h and 27h time points. The targets of these miRNAs were further detected by degradome sequencing coupled with bioinformatics prediction. Finally, qRT-PCR was used to validate the identified miRNA and their targets. Our study systematically investigated the expression profile of miRNA and their targets in barley during salinity stress phase, which can contribute to understanding how miRNAs respond to salinity stress in barley and other cereal crops.
Traits related to grain and reproductive organs in grass crops have been under continuous directional selection during domestication. Barley is one of the oldest domesticated crops in human history. Thus genes associated with the grain and reproductive organs in barley may show evidence of dramatic evolutionary change. To understand how artificial selection contributes to protein evolution of biased genes in different barley organs, we used Digital Gene Expression analysis of six barley organs (grain, pistil, anther, leaf, stem and root) to identify genes with biased expression in specific organs. Pairwise comparisons of orthologs between barley and Brachypodium distachyon, as well as between highland and lowland barley cultivars mutually indicated that grain and pistil biased genes show relatively higher protein evolutionary rates compared with the median of all orthologs and other organ biased genes. Lineage-specific protein evolutionary rates estimation showed similar patterns with elevated protein evolution in barley grain and pistil biased genes, yet protein sequences generally evolve much faster in the lowland barley cultivar. Further functional annotations revealed that some of these grain and pistil biased genes with rapid protein evolution are related to nutrient biosynthesis and cell cycle/division. Our analyses provide insights into how domestication differentially shaped the evolution of genes specific to different organs of a crop species, and implications for future functional studies of domestication genes.
The mevalonate pathway is an efficient biosynthesis pathway that yields isoprenoids for promoting different crucial cellular functions, including ergosterol synthesis and growth regulation. Acetoacetyl-CoA acetyltransferase (EC2.3.1.9) is the first major catalytic enzyme constituting the mevalonate pathway and catalyzes the transformation of Acetoacetyl-CoA from two molecules of acetyl-CoA enroute ergosterol production in fungi. We identified two homologous genes encoding Acetoacetyl-CoA acetyltransferase (MoAcat1 and MoAcat2) in Magnaporthe oryzae, the rice blast fungus. Phylogenetic analysis indicates these two genes have different evolutionary history. We subsequently, conducted targeted gene deletion using homologous recombination technology to ascertain the unique roles of the two MoAcat homologues during the fungal morphogenesis and pathogenesis. The findings from our investigations showed that the activity of MoAcat1 promoted virulence in the rice blast fungus as such, the ΔMoacat1 mutants generated exhibited defect in virulence, whilst ΔMoacat1 mutants did not portray growth defects. ΔMoacat2 mutants on the other hand were characterized by reduction in growth and virulence. Furthermore, MoAcat1 and MoAcat2 showed different expression patterns and subcellular localizations in M. oryzae. From our investigations we came to the conclusion that, different subcellular localization contributes to the diverse functions of MoAcat1 and MoAcat2, which helps the successful establishment of blast disease by promoting efficient development of cell morphology and effective colonization of host tissue.
The wheat gene Lr34 encodes an ABCG-type transporter which provides durable resistance against multiple pathogens. Lr34 is functional as a transgene in barley, but its mode of action has remained largely unknown both in wheat and barley. Here we studied gene expression in uninfected barley lines transgenic for Lr34. Genes from multiple defense pathways contributing to basal and inducible disease resistance were constitutively active in seedlings and mature leaves. In addition, the hormones jasmonic acid and salicylic acid were induced to high levels, and increased levels of lignin as well as hordatines were observed. These results demonstrate a strong, constitutive re-programming of metabolism by Lr34. The resistant Lr34 allele (Lr34res) encodes a protein that differs by two amino acid polymorphisms from the susceptible Lr34sus allele. The deletion of a single phenylalanine residue in Lr34sus was sufficient to induce the characteristic Lr34-based responses. Combination of Lr34res and Lr34sus in the same plant resulted in a reduction of Lr34res expression by 8- to 20-fold when the low-expressing Lr34res line BG8 was used as a parent. Crosses with the high-expressing Lr34res line BG9 resulted in an increase of Lr34sus expression by 13- to 16-fold in progenies that inherited both alleles. These results indicate an interaction of the two Lr34 alleles on the transcriptional level. Reduction of Lr34res expression in BG8 crosses reduced the negative pleiotropic effects of Lr34res on barley growth and vigor without compromising disease resistance, suggesting that transgenic combination of Lr34res and Lr34sus can result in agronomically useful resistance.
Timing of the floral transition and inflorescence development strongly affect yield in barley (Hordeum vulgare). Therefore, we examined the effects of daylength and the photoperiod response gene PHOTOPERIOD1 (Ppd-H1) on barley development and analyzed gene expression changes in the developing leaves and main shoot apices (MSAs) of barley by RNA sequencing. The daylength sensitivity of MSA development had two phases, floret primordia initiated under long and short days, whereas successful inflorescence development occurred only under long days. The transcripts associated with floral transition were largely regulated independently of photoperiod and allelic variation at Ppd-H1. The photoperiod- and Ppd-H1-dependent differences in inflorescence development and flower fertility were associated with the induction of barley FLOWERING LOCUS T orthologs: FT1 in leaves and FT2 in MSAs. FT1 expression was coregulated with transcripts involved in nutrient transport, carbohydrate metabolism, and cell cycle regulation, suggesting that FT1 might alter source-sink relationships. Successful inflorescence development correlated with upregulation of FT2 and transcripts related to floral organ development, phytohormones, and cell cycle regulation. Identification of photoperiod and stage-specific transcripts gives insights into the regulation of reproductive development in barley and provides a resource for investigation of the complexities of development and yield in temperate grasses.
Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV, genus Hordeivirus) is a rod-shaped single-stranded RNA virus similar to viruses of the structurally characterized and well-studied genus Tobamovirus. Here we report the first high-resolution structure of BSMV at 4.1 Å obtained by cryo-electron microscopy. We discovered that BSMV forms two types of virion that differ in the number of coat protein (CP) subunits per turn and interactions between the CP subunits. While BSMV and tobacco mosaic virus CP subunits have a similar fold and interact with RNA using conserved residues, the axial contacts between the CP of these two viral groups are considerably different. BSMV CP subunits lack substantial axial contacts and are held together by a previously unobserved lateral contact formed at the virion surface via an interacting loop, which protrudes from the CP hydrophobic core to the adjacent CP subunit. These data provide an insight into diversity in structural organization of helical viruses.
The shape of the maternal pericarp affects cereal grain mass and yield. Pericarp growth was analysed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), revealing topological maps of mobile water in developing pericarp of barley (Hordeum vulgare) and displaying tissue regions actively elongating in specific temporal-spatial patterns. Correlation analysis of MRI signals and growth rates reveals that growth in length is mediated by dorsal and also lateral rather than ventral regions. Growth in thickness is related to ventral regions. Switching from dorsal to ventral growth is associated with differential expression of axial regulators of the HD-ZipIII and Kanadi/Ettin types, and NPH3 photoreceptors, suggesting light-mediated auxin re-distribution. Auxin increases with the highest levels in the basal pericarp at 6 days after fertilization (DAF), together with transcriptionally up-regulated auxin transport and signalling. Gibberellin biosynthesis is transcriptionally up-regulated only later, and levels of bioactive gibberellins increase from 7 to 13 DAF, with higher levels in ventral than dorsal regions. Differential gene expression related to cell expansion indicates genes related to apoplast acidification, wall relaxation, sugar cleavage, water transport, and cell wall biosynthesis. Candidate genes potentially involved in pericarp extension are distinguished by their temporal expression, representing potential isoforms responsible for dorsal-mediated early growth in length or ventral-mediated late growth in thickness.
Combinations of histones carrying different covalent modifications are a major component of epigenetic variation. We have mapped nine modified histones in the barley seedling epigenome by chromatin immunoprecipitation next-generation sequencing (ChIP-seq). The chromosomal distributions of the modifications group them into four different classes, and members of a given class also tend to coincide at the local DNA level, suggesting that global distribution patterns reflect local epigenetic environments. We used this peak sharing to define 10 chromatin states representing local epigenetic environments in the barley genome. Five states map mainly to genes and five to intergenic regions. Two genic states involving H3K36me3 are preferentially associated with constitutive gene expression, while an H3K27me3-containing genic state is associated with differentially expressed genes. The 10 states display striking distribution patterns that divide barley chromosomes into three distinct global environments. First, telomere-proximal regions contain high densities of H3K27me3 covering both genes and intergenic DNA, together with very low levels of the repressive H3K27me1 modification. Flanking these are gene-rich interior regions that are rich in active chromatin states and have greatly decreased levels of H3K27me3 and increasing amounts of H3K27me1 and H3K9me2. Lastly, H3K27me3-depleted pericentromeric regions contain gene islands with active chromatin states separated by extensive retrotransposon-rich regions that are associated with abundant H3K27me1 and H3K9me2 modifications. We propose an epigenomic framework for barley whereby intergenic H3K27me3 specifies facultative heterochromatin in the telomere-proximal regions and H3K27me1 is diagnostic for constitutive heterochromatin elsewhere in the barley genome.
The FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) protein is a central component of a mobile flowering signal (florigen) that is transported from leaves to the shoot apical meristem (SAM). Two FT monomers and two DNA-binding bZIP transcription factors interact with a dimeric 14-3-3 protein bridge to form a hexameric protein complex. This complex, designated as the 'florigen activation complex' (FAC), plays a critical role in flowering. The wheat homologue of FT, designated FT1 (= VRN3), activates expression of VRN1 in the leaves and the SAM, promoting flowering under inductive long days. In this study, we show that FT1, other FT-like proteins, and different FD-like proteins, can interact with multiple wheat and barley 14-3-3 proteins. We also identify the critical amino acid residues in FT1 and FD-like proteins required for their interactions, and demonstrate that 14-3-3 proteins are necessary bridges to mediate the FT1-TaFDL2 interaction. Using in vivo bimolecular fluorescent complementation (BiFC) assays, we demonstrate that the interaction between FT1 and 14-3-3 occurs in the cytoplasm, and that this complex is then translocated to the nucleus, where it interacts with TaFDL2 to form a FAC. We also demonstrate that a FAC including FT1, TaFDL2 and Ta14-3-3C can bind to the VRN1 promoter in vitro. Finally, we show that relative transcript levels of FD-like and 14-3-3 genes vary among tissues and developmental stages. Since FD-like proteins determine the DNA specificity of the FACs, variation in FD-like gene expression can result in spatial and temporal modulation of the effects of mobile FT-like signals.
The barley gene HvS40, encoding a putative regulator of leaf senescence, is strongly induced during leaf senescence. As shown by chromatin immunoprecipitation, euchromatic histone modification H3K9ac is added at promoter close to ATG and coding sequence of HvS40 after onset of senescence. In parallel, level of heterochromatic H3K9me2 decreases at this gene. Bisulfite sequencing revealed no DNA-methylation in this region, but a heavily methylated DNA-island, starting 664 bp upstream from translational start site in both, mature and senescent leaves. A decrease in DNA methylation in senescing leaves could be shown at one specific CpG motif at the end of this methylation island. In addition, global changes in chromatin structure during senescence were analyzed via immunocytology, revealing senescence-associated changes in spatial distribution of heterochromatic H3K9me2 patterns in the nuclei. Our results prove a senescence-specific mechanism, altering histone modification marks at distinct sequences of the senescence-associated gene HvS40 and altering distribution of heterochromatic areas in the nuclei.
The investigation of obligate biotrophic pathogens, for example Blumeria graminis, presents a number of challenges. The sensitivity of many assays is reduced because of the presence of host material. Furthermore, the fungal structures inside and outside of the plant possess very different characteristics. Normalization genes are used in quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) to compensate for changes as a result of the quantity and quality of template material. Such genes are used as references against which genes of interest are compared, enabling true quantification. Here, we identified six potential B. graminis and five barley genes for qPCR normalization. The relative changes in abundance of the transcripts were assayed across an infection time course in barley epidermis, in B. graminis epiphytic structures and haustoria. The B. graminis glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), actin (ACT) and histone 3 (H3) genes and the barley GAPDH, ubiquitin (UBI) and α-tubulin 2B (TUBA2B) genes were optimal normalization controls for qPCR during the infection cycle. These genes were then used for normalization in the quantification of the members of a Candidate Secreted Effector Protein (CSEP) family 21, a conidia-specific gene and barley genes encoding putative interactors of CSEP0064. The analysis demonstrates the importance of identifying which reference genes are appropriate for each investigation.
Here we report the genetic analyses of histone lysine methyltransferase (KMT) genes in the phytopathogenic fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. Eight putative M. oryzae KMT genes were targeted for gene disruption by homologous recombination. Phenotypic assays revealed that the eight KMTs were involved in various infection processes at varying degrees. Moset1 disruptants (Δmoset1) impaired in histone H3 lysine 4 methylation (H3K4me) showed the most severe defects in infection-related morphogenesis, including conidiation and appressorium formation. Consequently, Δmoset1 lost pathogenicity on wheat host plants, thus indicating that H3K4me is an important epigenetic mark for infection-related gene expression in M. oryzae. Interestingly, appressorium formation was greatly restored in the Δmoset1 mutants by exogenous addition of cAMP or of the cutin monomer, 16-hydroxypalmitic acid. The Δmoset1 mutants were still infectious on the super-susceptible barley cultivar Nigrate. These results suggested that MoSET1 plays roles in various aspects of infection, including signal perception and overcoming host-specific resistance. However, since Δmoset1 was also impaired in vegetative growth, the impact of MoSET1 on gene regulation was not infection specific. ChIP-seq analysis of H3K4 di- and tri-methylation (H3K4me2/me3) and MoSET1 protein during infection-related morphogenesis, together with RNA-seq analysis of the Δmoset1 mutant, led to the following conclusions: 1) Approximately 5% of M. oryzae genes showed significant changes in H3K4-me2 or -me3 abundance during infection-related morphogenesis. 2) In general, H3K4-me2 and -me3 abundance was positively associated with active transcription. 3) Lack of MoSET1 methyltransferase, however, resulted in up-regulation of a significant portion of the M. oryzae genes in the vegetative mycelia (1,491 genes), and during infection-related morphogenesis (1,385 genes), indicating that MoSET1 has a role in gene repression either directly or more likely indirectly. 4) Among the 4,077 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between mycelia and germination tubes, 1,201 and 882 genes were up- and down-regulated, respectively, in a Moset1-dependent manner. 5) The Moset1-dependent DEGs were enriched in several gene categories such as signal transduction, transport, RNA processing, and translation.
Barley malt, a product of controlled germination, has been shown to produce high levels of butyric acid in the cecum and portal serum of rats and may therefore have anti-inflammatory effects. The aim of the study was to investigate how four barley malts, caramelized and colored malts, 50-malt and 350-malt, differing in functional characteristics concerning beta-glucan content and color, affect short-chain fatty acids (SCFA), barrier function and inflammation in the hindgut of rats fed high-fat diets. Male Wistar rats were given malt-supplemented high-fat diets for four weeks. Low and high-fat diets containing microcrystalline cellulose were incorporated as controls. All diets contained 70 g kg(-1) dietary fiber. The malt-fed groups were found to have had induced higher amounts of butyric and propionic acids in the hindgut and portal serum compared with controls, while cecal succinic acid only increased to a small extent. Fat increased the mRNA expression of tight junction proteins and Toll-like receptors (TLR) in the small intestine and distal colon of the rats, as well as the concentration of some amino acids in the portal plasma, but malt seemed to counteract these adverse effects to some extent. However, the high content of advanced glycation end-products (AGE) in caramelized malt tended to prohibit the positive effects on occludin in the small intestine and plasma amino acids seen with the other malt products. In conclusion, malting seems to be an interesting process for producing foods with positive health effects, but part of these effects may be destroyed if the malt contains a high content of AGE.
The production of asexual spores plays a critical role in rice blast disease. However, the mechanisms of the genes involved in the conidiogenesis pathway are not well understood. F-box proteins are specific adaptors to E3 ubiquitin ligases that determine the fate of different substrates in ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation and play diverse roles in fungal growth regulation. Here, we identify a Saccharomyces cerevisiae Grr1 homolog, MoGrr1, in Magnaporthe oryzae. Targeted disruption of Mogrr1 resulted in defects in vegetative growth, melanin pigmentation, conidial production, and resistance to oxidative stress, and these mutants consequently exhibited attenuated virulence to host plants. Microscopy studies revealed that the inability to form conidiophores is responsible for the defect in conidiation. Although the Mogrr1 mutants could develop melanized appressoria from hyphal tips, the appressoria were unable to penetrate into plant tissues due to insufficient turgor pressure within the appressorium, thereby attenuating the virulence of the mutants. Quantitative RT-PCR results revealed significantly decreased expression of chitin synthase-encoding genes, which are involved in fungal cell wall integrity, in the Mogrr1 mutants. The Mogrr1 mutants also displayed reduced expression of central components of the MAP kinase and cAMP signaling pathways, which are required for appressorium differentiation. Furthermore, domain complementation analysis indicated that two putative protein-interacting domains in MoGrr1 play essential roles during fungal development and pathogenicity. Taken together, our results suggest that MoGrr1 plays essential roles in fungal development and is required for the full virulence of M. oryzae.
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) and nitric oxide (NO) are emerging as messenger molecules involved in the modulation of plant physiological processes. Here, we investigated a signalling network involving H2S and NO in salt tolerance pathway of barley. NaHS, a donor of H2S, at a low concentration of either 50 or 100 μM, had significant rescue effects on the 150 mM NaCl-induced inhibition of plant growth and modulated the K(+)/Na(+) balance by decreasing the net K(+) efflux and increasing the gene expression of an inward-rectifying potassium channel (HvAKT1) and a high-affinity K(+) uptake system (HvHAK4). H2S and NO maintained the lower Na(+) content in the cytoplast by increasing the amount of PM H(+)-ATPase, the transcriptional levels of PM H(+)-ATPase (HvHA1) and Na(+)/H(+) antiporter (HvSOS1). H2S and NO modulated Na(+) compartmentation into the vacuoles with up-regulation of the transcriptional levels of vacuolar Na(+)/H(+) antiporter (HvVNHX2) and H(+)-ATPase subunit β (HvVHA-β) and increased in the protein expression of vacuolar Na(+)/H(+) antiporter (NHE1). H2S mimicked the effect of sodium nitroprusside (SNP) by increasing NO production, whereas the function was quenched with the addition of NO scavenger. These results indicated that H2S increased salt tolerance by maintaining ion homeostasis, which were mediated by the NO signal.
Atmospheric methane is the second most important greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide, and is responsible for about 20% of the global warming effect since pre-industrial times. Rice paddies are the largest anthropogenic methane source and produce 7-17% of atmospheric methane. Warm waterlogged soil and exuded nutrients from rice roots provide ideal conditions for methanogenesis in paddies with annual methane emissions of 25-100-million tonnes. This scenario will be exacerbated by an expansion in rice cultivation needed to meet the escalating demand for food in the coming decades. There is an urgent need to establish sustainable technologies for increasing rice production while reducing methane fluxes from rice paddies. However, ongoing efforts for methane mitigation in rice paddies are mainly based on farming practices and measures that are difficult to implement. Despite proposed strategies to increase rice productivity and reduce methane emissions, no high-starch low-methane-emission rice has been developed. Here we show that the addition of a single transcription factor gene, barley SUSIBA2 (refs 7, 8), conferred a shift of carbon flux to SUSIBA2 rice, favouring the allocation of photosynthates to aboveground biomass over allocation to roots. The altered allocation resulted in an increased biomass and starch content in the seeds and stems, and suppressed methanogenesis, possibly through a reduction in root exudates. Three-year field trials in China demonstrated that the cultivation of SUSIBA2 rice was associated with a significant reduction in methane emissions and a decrease in rhizospheric methanogen levels. SUSIBA2 rice offers a sustainable means of providing increased starch content for food production while reducing greenhouse gas emissions from rice cultivation. Approaches to increase rice productivity and reduce methane emissions as seen in SUSIBA2 rice may be particularly beneficial in a future climate with rising temperatures resulting in increased methane emissions from paddies.
Tonoplast intrinsic proteins (TIPs) are involved in the transport and storage of water, and control intracellular osmotic pressure by transporting material related to the water potential of cells. In the present study, we focused on HvTIP3;1 during the periods of seed development and desiccation in barley. HvTIP3;1 was specifically expressed in seeds. An immunochemical analysis showed that HvTIP3;1 strongly accumulated in the aleurone layers and outer layers of barley seeds. The water transport activities of HvTIP3;1 and HvTIP1;2, which also accumulated in seeds, were measured in the heterologous expression system of Xenopus oocytes. When they were expressed individually, HvTIP1;2 transported water, whereas HvTIP3;1 did not. However, HvTIP3;1 exhibited water transport activity when co-expressed with HvTIP1;2 in oocytes, and this activity was higher than when HvTIP1;2 was expressed alone. This is the first report to demonstrate that the water permeability of a TIP aquaporin was activated when co-expressed with another TIP. The split-yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) system in onion cells revealed that HvTIP3;1 interacted with HvTIP1;2 to form a heterotetramer in plants. These results suggest that HvTIP3;1 functions as an active water channel to regulate water movement through tissues during the periods of seed development and desiccation.
Inflorescences of the tribe Triticeae, which includes wheat (Triticum sp. L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) are characterized by sessile spikelets directly borne on the main axis, thus forming a branchless spike. 'Compositum-Barley' and tetraploid 'Miracle-Wheat' (T. turgidum convar. compositum (L.f.) Filat.) display noncanonical spike-branching in which spikelets are replaced by lateral branch-like structures resembling small-sized secondary spikes. As a result of this branch formation 'Miracle-Wheat' produces significantly more grains per spike, leading to higher spike yield. In this study, we first isolated the gene underlying spike-branching in 'Compositum-Barley,' i.e., compositum 2 (com2). Moreover, we found that COM2 is orthologous to the branched head(t) (bh(t)) locus regulating spike branching in tetraploid 'Miracle-Wheat.' Both genes possess orthologs with similar functions in maize BRANCHED SILKLESS 1 (BD1) and rice FRIZZY PANICLE/BRANCHED FLORETLESS 1 (FZP/BFL1) encoding AP2/ERF transcription factors. Sequence analysis of the bh(t) locus in a collection of mutant and wild-type tetraploid wheat accessions revealed that a single amino acid substitution in the DNA-binding domain gave rise to the domestication of 'Miracle-Wheat.' mRNA in situ hybridization, microarray experiments, and independent qRT-PCR validation analyses revealed that the branch repression pathway in barley is governed through the spike architecture gene Six-rowed spike 4 regulating COM2 expression, while HvIDS1 (barley ortholog of maize INDETERMINATE SPIKELET 1) is a putative downstream target of COM2. These findings presented here provide new insights into the genetic basis of spike architecture in Triticeae, and have disclosed new targets for genetic manipulations aiming at boosting wheat's yield potential.
Cellulose is a fundamentally important component of cell walls of higher plants. It provides a scaffold that allows the development and growth of the plant to occur in an ordered fashion. Cellulose also provides mechanical strength, which is crucial for both normal development and to enable the plant to withstand both abiotic and biotic stresses. We quantified the cellulose concentration in the culm of 288 two--rowed and 288 six--rowed spring type barley accessions that were part of the USDA funded barley Coordinated Agricultural Project (CAP) program in the USA. When the population structure of these accessions was analysed we identified six distinct populations, four of which we considered to be comprised of a sufficient number of accessions to be suitable for genome-wide association studies (GWAS). These lines had been genotyped with 3072 SNPs so we combined the trait and genetic data to carry out GWAS. The analysis allowed us to identify regions of the genome containing significant associations between molecular markers and cellulose concentration data, including one region cross-validated in multiple populations. To identify candidate genes we assembled the gene content of these regions and used these to query a comprehensive RNA-seq based gene expression atlas. This provided us with gene annotations and associated expression data across multiple tissues, which allowed us to formulate a supported list of candidate genes that regulate cellulose biosynthesis. Several regions identified by our analysis contain genes that are co-expressed with cellulose synthase A (HvCesA) across a range of tissues and developmental stages. These genes are involved in both primary and secondary cell wall development. In addition, genes that have been previously linked with cellulose synthesis by biochemical methods, such as HvCOBRA, a gene of unknown function, were also associated with cellulose levels in the association panel. Our analyses provide new insights into the genes that contribute to cellulose content in cereal culms and to a greater understanding of the interactions between them.
Plants respond to abiotic stresses by changes in gene regulation, including stress-inducible expression of transcriptional activators and repressors. One of the best characterized families of drought-related transcription factors are dehydration-responsive element binding (DREB) proteins, known as C-repeat binding factors (CBF). The wheat DREB/CBF gene TaRAP2.1L was isolated from drought-affected tissues using a dehydration-responsive element (DRE) as bait in a yeast one-hybrid screen. TaRAP2.1L is induced by elevated abscisic acid, drought and cold. A C-terminal ethylene responsive factor-associated amphiphilic repression (EAR) motif, known to be responsible for active repression of target genes, was identified in the TaRAP2.1L protein. It was found that TaRAP2.1L has a unique selectivity of DNA-binding, which differs from that of DREB activators. This binding selectivity remains unchanged in a TaRAP2.1L variant with an inactivated EAR motif (TaRAP2.1Lmut). To study the role of the TaRAP2.1L repressor activity associated with the EAR motif in planta, transgenic wheat overexpressing native or mutated TaRAP2.1L was generated. Overexpression of TaRAP2.1L under constitutive and stress-inducible promoters in transgenic wheat and barley led to dwarfism and decreased frost tolerance. By contrast, constitutive overexpression of the TaRAP2.1Lmut gene had little or no negative influence on wheat development or grain yield. Transgenic lines with the TaRAP2.1Lmut transgene had an enhanced ability to survive frost and drought. The improved stress tolerance is attributed to up-regulation of several stress-related genes known to be downstream genes of DREB/CBF activators.
MicroRNAs are the key post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression in development and stress responses. Thus, precisely quantifying the level of each particular microRNA is of utmost importance when studying the biology of any organism. The mirEX 2.0 web portal ( http://www.combio.pl/mirex ) provides a comprehensive platform for the exploration of microRNA expression data based on quantitative Real Time PCR and NGS sequencing experiments, covering various developmental stages, from wild-type to mutant plants. The portal includes mature and pri-miRNA expression levels detected in three plant species (Arabidopsis thaliana, Hordeum vulgare and Pellia endiviifolia), and in A. thaliana miRNA biogenesis pathway mutants. In total, the database contains information about the expression of 461 miRNAs representing 268 families. The data can be explored through the use of advanced web tools, including (i) a graphical query builder system allowing a combination of any given species, developmental stages and tissues, (ii) a modular presentation of the results in the form of thematic windows, and (iii) a number of user-friendly utilities such as a community-building discussion system and extensive tutorial documentation (e.g., tooltips, exemplary videos and presentations). All data contained within the mirEX 2.0 database can be downloaded for use in further applications in a context-based way from the result windows or from a dedicated web page. The mirEX 2.0 portal provides the plant research community with easily accessible data and powerful tools for application in multi-conditioned analyses of miRNA expression from important plant species in different biological and developmental backgrounds.
The covered/naked caryopsis trait of barley is an important agronomic trait because it is directly linked to dietary use. The formation of covered/naked caryopsis is controlled by an NUD transcription factor, which is involved in pericarp cuticle development. However, the molecular mechanism underlying this trait remains so far largely unknown. In this study, comparative transcriptomes of grains three weeks after anthesis of Tibetan Hulless barley landrace Dulihuang and covered barley Morex were analyzed using RNA-seq technique. A total of 4031 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. The Nud gene was overexpressed in Morex, with trace expression in Dulihuang. Among seventeen cuticle related DEGs, sixteen were down regulated and one up regulated in Morex. These results suggest that the Nud gene in covered caryopsis might down regulate cuticle related genes, which may cause a permeable cuticle over pericarp, leading to a hull-caryopsis organ fusion. A functional cuticle covering the pericarp of naked caryopsis might be the result of deletion or low expression level of the Nud gene. The functional cuticle defines a perfect boundary to separate the caryopsis from the hull in naked barley.
Circadian clocks regulate many aspects of plant physiology and development that contribute to essential agronomic traits. Circadian clocks contain transcriptional feedback loops that are thought to generate circadian timing. There is considerable similarity in the genes that comprise the transcriptional and translational feedback loops of the circadian clock in the plant Kingdom. Functional characterisation of circadian clock genes has been restricted to a few model species. Here we provide a functional characterisation of the Hordeum vulgare (barley) circadian clock genes Hv circadian clock associated 1 (HvCCA1) and Hv photoperiodh1, which are respectively most similar to Arabidopsis thaliana circadian clock associated 1 (AtCCA1) and pseudo response regulator 7 (AtPRR7). This provides insight into the circadian regulation of one of the major crop species of Northern Europe. Through a combination of physiological assays of circadian rhythms in barley and heterologous expression in wild type and mutant strains of A. thaliana we demonstrate that HvCCA1 has a conserved function to AtCCA1. We find that Hv photoperiod H1 has AtPRR7-like functionality in A. thaliana and that the effects of the Hv photoperiod h1 mutation on photoperiodism and circadian rhythms are genetically separable.
The plant circadian clock is an internal timekeeper that coordinates biological processes with daily changes in the external environment. The transcript levels of clock genes, which oscillate to control circadian outputs, were examined during early seedling development in barley (Hordeum vulgare), a model for temperate cereal crops. Oscillations of clock gene transcript levels do not occur in barley seedlings grown in darkness or constant light but were observed with day-night cycles. A dark-to-light transition influenced transcript levels of some clock genes but triggered only weak oscillations of gene expression, whereas a light-to-dark transition triggered robust oscillations. Single light pulses of 6, 12 or 18 hours induced robust oscillations. The light-to-dark transition was the primary determinant of the timing of subsequent peaks of clock gene expression. After the light-to-dark transition the timing of peak transcript levels of clock gene also varied depending on the length of the preceding light pulse. Thus, a single photoperiod can trigger initiation of photoperiod-dependent circadian rhythms in barley seedlings. Photoperiod-specific rhythms of clock gene expression were observed in two week old barley plants. Changing the timing of dusk altered clock gene expression patterns within a single day, showing that alteration of circadian oscillator behaviour is amongst the most rapid molecular responses to changing photoperiod in barley. A barley EARLY FLOWERING3 mutant, which exhibits rapid photoperiod-insensitive flowering behaviour, does not establish clock rhythms in response to a single photoperiod. The data presented show that dawn and dusk cues are important signals for setting the state of the circadian oscillator during early development of barley and that the circadian oscillator of barley exhibits photoperiod-dependent oscillation states.
The obligate ascomycete parasitic fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh) has a unique lifestyle as it is completely dependent on living barley leaves as substrate for growth. Genes involved in inorganic nitrogen utilization are notably lacking, and the fungus relies on uptake of host-derived peptides and amino acids. The PTR2 transporter family takes up di- and tri- peptides in a proton coupled process and filamentous fungi typically have two or more di/tri peptide transporters. Here we show that Bgh appear to have one PTR2 that can restore dipeptide uptake in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae PTR2 deletion strain. The Bgh PTR2 gene is expressed in conidia and germinating conidia. During Bgh infection of barley the expression level of the BghPTR2 gene is high in the appressorial germ tube, low in the haustoria and high again during conidiation and secondary infection in the compatible and intermediate resistant interactions. BghPTR2 appears to be important for the initial establishment of fungal infection but not for uptake of di-tri-peptides at the haustorial interface. Based on the expression profile we suggest that BghPTR2 is active in internal transport of nutrient reserves and/or uptake of break down products from the plant surface during the early infection stages.
Aquaporins (AQPs) are major intrinsic proteins (MIPs) that mediate bidirectional flux of water and other substrates across cell membranes, and play critical roles in plant-water relations, dehydration stress responses and crop productivity. However, limited data are available as yet on the contributions of these proteins to the physiology of the major crop barley (Hordeum vulgare). The present work reports the identification and expression analysis of the barley MIP family. A comprehensive search of publicly available leaf mRNA-seq data, draft barley genome data, GenBank transcripts and sixteen new annotations together revealed that the barley MIP family is comprised of at least forty AQPs. Alternative splicing events were likely in two plasma membrane intrinsic protein (PIP) AQPs. Analyses of the AQP signature sequences and specificity determining positions indicated a potential of several putative AQP isoforms to transport non-aqua substrates including physiological important substrates, and respond to abiotic stresses. Analysis of our publicly available leaf mRNA-seq data identified notable differential expression of HvPIP1;2 and HvTIP4;1 under salt stress. Analyses of other gene expression resources also confirmed isoform-specific responses in different tissues and/or in response to salinity, as well as some potentially inter-cultivar differences. The work reports systematic and comprehensive analysis of most, if not all, barley AQP genes, their sequences, expression patterns in different tissues, potential transport and stress response functions, and a strong framework for selection and/or development of stress tolerant barley varieties. In addition, the barley data would be highly valuable for genetic studies of the evolutionarily closely related wheat (Triticum aestivum L.).
The evolutionary basis of reproductive success in different environments is of major interest in the study of plant adaptation. Since the reproductive stage is particularly sensitive to drought, genes affecting reproductive success during this stage are key players in the evolution of adaptive mechanisms. We used an ecological genomics approach to investigate the reproductive response of drought-tolerant and sensitive wild barley accessions originating from different habitats in the Levant. We sequenced mRNA extracted from spikelets at the flowering stage in drought-treated and control plants. The barley genome was used for a reference-guided assembly and differential expression analysis. Our approach enabled to detect biological processes affecting grain production under drought stress. We detected novel candidate genes and differentially expressed alleles associated with drought tolerance. Drought associated genes were shown to be more conserved than non-associated genes, and drought-tolerance genes were found to evolve more rapidly than other drought associated genes. We show that reproductive success under drought stress is not a habitat-specific trait but a shared physiological adaptation that appeared to evolve recently in the evolutionary history of wild barley. Exploring the genomic basis of reproductive success under stress in crop wild progenitors is expected to have considerable ecological and economical applications.
The gibberellin (GA) pathway plays a central role in the regulation of plant development, with the 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenases (2-ODDs: GA20ox, GA3ox, GA2ox) that catalyse the later steps in the biosynthetic pathway of particularly importance in regulating bioactive GA levels. Although GA has important impacts on crop yield and quality, our understanding of the regulation of GA biosynthesis during wheat and barley development remains limited. In this study we identified or assembled genes encoding the GA 2-ODDs of wheat, barley and Brachypodium distachyon and characterised the wheat genes by heterologous expression and transcript analysis. The wheat, barley and Brachypodium genomes each contain orthologous copies of the GA20ox, GA3ox and GA2ox genes identified in rice, with the exception of OsGA3ox1 and OsGA2ox5 which are absent in these species. Some additional paralogs of 2-ODD genes were identified: notably, a novel gene in the wheat B genome related to GA3ox2 was shown to encode a GA 1-oxidase, named as TaGA1ox-B1. This enzyme is likely to be responsible for the abundant 1β-hydroxylated GAs present in developing wheat grains. We also identified a related gene in barley, located in a syntenic position to TaGA1ox-B1, that encodes a GA 3,18-dihydroxylase which similarly accounts for the accumulation of unusual GAs in barley grains. Transcript analysis showed that some paralogs of the different classes of 2-ODD were expressed mainly in a single tissue or at specific developmental stages. In particular, TaGA20ox3, TaGA1ox1, TaGA3ox3 and TaGA2ox7 were predominantly expressed in developing grain. More detailed analysis of grain-specific gene expression showed that while the transcripts of biosynthetic genes were most abundant in the endosperm, genes encoding inactivation and signalling components were more highly expressed in the seed coat and pericarp. The comprehensive expression and functional characterisation of the multigene families encoding the 2-ODD enzymes of the GA pathway in wheat and barley will provide the basis for a better understanding of GA-regulated development in these species. This analysis revealed the existence of a novel, endosperm-specific GA 1-oxidase in wheat and a related GA 3,18-dihydroxylase enzyme in barley that may play important roles during grain expansion and development.
Drought is one of major abiotic stresses constraining crop productivity worldwide. To adapt to drought stress, plants have evolved sophisticated defence mechanisms. Wild barley germplasm is a treasure trove of useful genes and offers rich sources of genetic variation for crop improvement. In this study, a proteome analysis was performed to identify the genetic resources and to understand the mechanisms of drought tolerance in plants that could result in high levels of tolerance to drought stress. A greenhouse pot experiment was performed to compare proteomic characteristics of two contrasting Tibetan wild barley genotypes (drought-tolerant XZ5 and drought-sensitive XZ54) and cv. ZAU3, in response to drought stress at soil moisture content 10% (SMC10) and 4% (SMC4) and subsequently 2 days (R1) and 5 days (R2) of recovery. More than 1700 protein spots were identified that are involved in each gel, wherein 132, 92, 86, 242 spots in XZ5 and 261, 137, 156, 187 in XZ54 from SMC10, SMC4, R1 and R2 samples were differentially expressed by drought over the control, respectively. Thirty-eight drought-tolerance-associated proteins were identified using mass spectrometry and data bank analysis. These proteins were categorized mainly into photosynthesis, stress response, metabolic process, energy and amino-acid biosynthesis. Among them, 6 protein spots were exclusively expressed or up-regulated under drought stress in XZ5 but not in XZ54, including melanoma-associated antigen p97, type I chlorophyll a/b-binding protein b, glutathione S-transferase 1, ribulosebisphosphate carboxylase large chain. Moreover, type I chlorophyll a/b-binding protein b was specifically expressed in XZ5 (Spots A4, B1 and C3) but not in both of XZ54 and ZAU3. These proteins may play crucial roles in drought-tolerance in XZ5. Coding Sequences (CDS) of rbcL and Trx-M genes from XZ5, XZ54 and ZAU3 were cloned and sequenced. CDS length of rbcL and Trx-M was 1401 bp (the partial-length CDS region) and 528 bp (full-length CDS region), respectively, encoding 467 and 176 amino acids. Comparison of gene sequences among XZ5, XZ54 and ZAU3 revealed 5 and 2 SNPs for rbcL and Trx-M, respectively, with two 2 SNPs of missense mutation in the both genes. Our findings highlight the significance of specific-proteins associated with drought tolerance, and verified the potential value of Tibetan wild barley in improving drought tolerance of barley as well as other cereal crops.
Agricultural nitrous oxide (N2O) pollution resulting from the use of synthetic fertilizers represents a significant contribution to anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions, providing a rationale for reduced use of nitrogen (N) fertilizers. Nitrogen limitation results in extensive systems rebalancing that remodels metabolism and defence processes. To analyse the regulation underpinning these responses, barley (Horedeum vulgare) seedlings were grown for 7 d under N-deficient conditions until net photosynthesis was 50% lower than in N-replete controls. Although shoot growth was decreased there was no evidence for the induction of oxidative stress despite lower total concentrations of N-containing antioxidants. Nitrogen-deficient barley leaves were rich in amino acids, sugars and tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates. In contrast to N-replete leaves one-day-old nymphs of the green peach aphid (Myzus persicae) failed to reach adulthood when transferred to N-deficient barley leaves. Transcripts encoding cell, sugar and nutrient signalling, protein degradation and secondary metabolism were over-represented in N-deficient leaves while those associated with hormone metabolism were similar under both nutrient regimes with the exception of mRNAs encoding proteins involved in auxin metabolism and responses. Significant similarities were observed between the N-limited barley leaf transcriptome and that of aphid-infested Arabidopsis leaves. These findings not only highlight significant similarities between biotic and abiotic stress signalling cascades but also identify potential targets for increasing aphid resistance with implications for the development of sustainable agriculture.
The role of nitric oxide (NO) as a key molecule in the signal transduction pathway of a biotic stress response has already been described. Recent studies indicate that it also participate in the signaling of abiotic stresses. In the present study, we showed the altered expression of stress responsive gene alternative oxidase (Aox1) in seedlings of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) in response to arsenic toxicity. Arsenic toxicity decreased the germination percentage, biomass, chlorophyll and carotenoid content whereas, arsenic toxicity enhanced the MDA content and proline content in a dose dependent manner. Other enzyme activities like catalase and superoxide dismutase increased with the increase in concentrations but it fell down at higher concentration of arsenic. Pretreatment of nitric oxide results in the enhanced expression of alternative oxidase which showed the adaptation of alternative pathway during the arsenic stress and it also enhances the growth ability and adaptability towards the arsenic stress. The results support the conclusion that nitric oxide ameliorates the arsenic toxicity not only at the level of antioxidant defense but also by affecting other mechanism of detoxification.
The collections of varieties of spring barley cultivars from the Eastern European and Central Asian areas were analyzed by exonpecific PCR (EPIC) for beta-amylase genes. The endosperm beta-amylase gene (bamyl) was differentiated by the presence of 126 bp MITE insertion into intron 3 that is associated with low activity beta-amylase. The findings suggest that a low level of genetic variation for bamylgene within climatic zones is associated with individual breeding program for each climatic zone.
In previous studies, we found Tibetan wild barley accessions with high tolerance to low K. In this study, ionomics and proteomics analyses were done on two wild genotypes (XZ153, tolerant and XZ141, sensitive), and a cultivar (B1031, tolerance to low K) to understand the mechanism of low-K tolerance. XZ153 was much less affected by low K stress than the other two genotypes in plant biomass and shoot K content. A total of 288 differentially accumulated proteins were identified between low-K and normal K treated plants. Among them, 129 proteins related to low-K tolerance were mainly involved in defense, transcription, signal transduction, energy, and protein synthesis. The analysis of tandem mass tag (TMT) detected 51 proteins which were increased in relative abundance under low K in XZ153, but unaltered or decreased in XZ141. The proteomics results showed that XZ153 is highly capable of rearranging ion homeostasis and developing an antioxidant defense system under low-K stress. Moreover, ethylene response and phenylpropanoid pathways could determine the genotypic difference in low-K tolerance. The current results confirmed the possibility of Tibetan wild barley providing low-K tolerant germplasm and identified some candidate proteins for use in developing the cultivars with low-K tolerance.
11 Cystatin genes in rice were identified, and their expression patterns were comprehensively analyzed, which reveals multiple roles in both seed development and plant response to environmental variations. Cystatin is a group of small proteins and known to inhibit the activities of cysteine proteases in the papain C1A and legumain C13 peptidase families in plants. Cystatin family genes have only been well characterized recently in a few plant species such as Hordeum vulgare and Nicotiana tabacum, which show their critical roles in programmed cell death and responses to biotic stresses. Up to now, little is known about cystatin family genes and their roles in Oryza sativa, a model plant for cereal biology study. Here, we identified 11 cystatin genes in rice genome. Comprehensive expression profile analysis reveals that cystatin family genes in rice display diverse expression pattern. They are temporally regulated at different developmental stages during the process of seed production and germination. Our experiments also reveal that the majority of cystatin genes are responsive to plant hormones and different environmental cues including cold, drought and other abiotic stresses, while some others are very stable under different stresses, indicating their fundamental roles in normal plant development. In addition, their distribution in rice chromosomes and their evolutionary relation to the members of Cystatin family in A. thaliana and N. tabacum have also been analyzed. These works suggest multiple roles of cystatin family genes in both seed development and plant response to environmental variations.
Rab GTPases are required for vesicle-vacuolar fusion during vacuolar biogenesis in fungi. To date, little is known about the biological functions of the Rab small GTPase components in Magnaporthe oryzae. In this study, we investigated MoYpt7 of M. oryzae, a homologue of the small Ras-like GTPase Ypt7 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Cellular localization assays showed that MoYpt7 was predominantly localized to vacuolar membranes. Using a targeted gene disruption strategy, a ΔMoYPT7 mutant was generated that exhibited defects in mycelial growth and production of conidia. The conidia of the ΔMoYPT7 mutant were malformed and defective in the formation of appressoria. Consequently, the ΔMoYPT7 mutant failed to cause disease in rice and barley. Furthermore, the ΔMoYPT7 mutant showed impairment in autophagy, breached cell wall integrity, and higher sensitivity to both calcium and heavy metal stress. Transformants constitutively expressing an active MoYPT7 allele (MoYPT7-CA, Gln67Leu) exhibited distinct phenotypes from the ΔMoYPT7 mutant. Expression of MoYPT7-CA in MoYpt7 reduced pathogenicity and produced more appressoria-forming single-septum conidia. These results indicate that MoYPT7 is required for fungal morphogenesis, vacuole fusion, autophagy, stress resistance and pathogenicity in M. oryzae.
Plant crop yields are negatively conditioned by a large set of biotic and abiotic factors. An alternative to mitigate these adverse effects is the use of fungal biological control agents and endophytes. The egg-parasitic fungus Pochonia chlamydosporia has been traditionally studied because of its potential as a biological control agent of plant-parasitic nematodes. This fungus can also act as an endophyte in monocot and dicot plants, and has been shown to promote plant growth in different agronomic crops. An Affymetrix 22K Barley GeneChip was used in this work to analyze the barley root transcriptomic response to P. chlamydosporia root colonization. Functional gene ontology (GO) and gene set enrichment analyses showed that genes involved in stress response were enriched in the barley transcriptome under endophytism. An 87.5% of the probesets identified within the abiotic stress response group encoded heat shock proteins. Additionally, we found in our transcriptomic analysis an up-regulation of genes implicated in the biosynthesis of plant hormones, such as auxin, ethylene and jasmonic acid. Along with these, we detected induction of brassinosteroid insensitive 1-associated receptor kinase 1 (BR1) and other genes related to effector-triggered immunity (ETI) and pattern-triggered immunity (PTI). Our study supports at the molecular level the growth-promoting effect observed in plants endophytically colonized by P. chlamydosporia, which opens the door to further studies addressing the capacity of this fungus to mitigate the negative effects of biotic and abiotic factors on plant crops.
Cold acclimation ability is crucial in the winter survival of cereals. In this process CBF transcription factors play key role, therefore understanding the regulation of these genes might provide useful knowledge for molecular breeding. In the present study the signal transduction pathways leading to the cold induction of different CBF genes were investigated in barley cv. Nure using pharmacological approach. Our results showed that the cold induced expression of CBF9 and CBF14 transcription factors is regulated by phospholipase C, phospholipase D pathways and calcium. On the contrary, these pathways have negative effect on the cold induction of CBF12 that is regulated by a different, as yet unidentified pathway. The diversity in the regulation of these transcription factors corresponds to their sequence based phylogenetic relationships suggesting that their evolutionary separation happened on structural, functional and regulational levels as well. On the CBF effector gene level, the signaling regulation is more complex, resultant effect of multiple pathways.
Genotoxic stress causes a reduced stability of the plant genome and has a detrimental effect on plant growth and productivity. Double-strand breaks (DSBs) are the most harmful of all DNA lesions because they cause the loss of genetic information on both strands of the DNA helix. In the presented study the coding and genomic sequences of the HvKu80 gene were determined. A mutational analysis of two fragments of HvKu80 using TILLING (Targeting Induced Local Lesions IN Genomes) allowed 12 mutations to be detected, which resulted in identification of 11 alleles. Multidirectional analyses demonstrated that the HvKu80 gene is involved in the elimination of DSBs in Hordeum vulgare. The barley mutants carrying the identified ku80.c and ku80.j alleles accumulated bleomycin-induced DSBs to a much greater extent than the parent cultivar 'Sebastian'. The altered reaction of the mutants to DSB-inducing agent and the kinetics of DNA repair in these genotypes are associated with a lower expression level of the mutated gene. The study also demonstrated the significant role of the HvKu80 gene in the regulation of telomere length in barley.
WHIRLY1 is largely targeted to plastids, where it is a major constituent of the nucleoids. To explore WHIRLY1 functions in barley (Hordeum vulgare), RNA interference-knockdown lines (W1-1, W1-7, and W1-9) that have very low levels of HvWHIRLY1 transcripts were characterized in plants grown under optimal and stress conditions. The WHIRLY1-1 (W1-1), W1-7, and W1-9 plants were phenotypically similar to the wild type but produced fewer tillers and seeds. Photosynthesis rates were similar in all lines, but W1-1, W1-7, and W1-9 leaves had significantly more chlorophyll and less sucrose than the wild type. Transcripts encoding specific subsets of chloroplast-localized proteins, such as ribosomal proteins, subunits of the RNA polymerase, and thylakoid nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (reduced) and cytochrome b6/f complexes, were much more abundant in the W1-7 leaves than the wild type. Although susceptibility of aphid (Myzus persicae) infestation was similar in all lines, the WHIRLY1-deficient plants showed altered responses to nitrogen deficiency, maintaining higher photosynthetic CO2 assimilation rates than the wild type under limiting nitrogen. Although all lines showed globally similar low nitrogen-dependent changes in transcripts and metabolites, the increased abundance of FAR-RED IMPAIRED RESPONSE1-like transcripts in nitrogen-deficient W1-7 leaves infers that WHIRLY1 has a role in communication between plastid and nuclear genes encoding photosynthetic proteins during abiotic stress.
The interaction of barley, Hordeum vulgare L., with the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei is a well-developed model to investigate resistance and susceptibility to obligate biotrophic pathogens. The 130-Mb Blumeria genome encodes approximately 540 predicted effectors that are hypothesized to suppress or induce host processes to promote colonization. Blumeria effector candidate (BEC)1019, a single-copy gene encoding a putative, secreted metalloprotease, is expressed in haustorial feeding structures, and host-induced gene silencing of BEC1019 restricts haustorial development in compatible interactions. Here, we show that Barley stripe mosaic virus-induced gene silencing of BEC1019 significantly reduces fungal colonization of barley epidermal cells, demonstrating that BEC1019 plays a central role in virulence. In addition, delivery of BEC1019 to the host cytoplasm via Xanthomonas type III secretion suppresses cultivar nonspecific hypersensitive reaction (HR) induced by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, as well as cultivar-specific HR induced by AvrPphB from Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola. BEC1019 homologs are present in 96 of 241 sequenced fungal genomes, including plant pathogens, human pathogens, and free-living nonpathogens. Comparative analysis revealed variation at several amino acid positions that correlate with fungal lifestyle and several highly conserved, noncorrelated motifs. Site-directed mutagenesis of one of these, ETVIC, compromises the HR-suppressing activity of BEC1019. We postulate that BEC1019 represents an ancient, broadly important fungal protein family, members of which have evolved to function as effectors in plant and animal hosts.
A major limitation of transforming barley tissues by Agrobacterium tumefaciens is the low frequency of T-DNA transfer due to recalcitrance of barley as a host. The effect of extracellular cellulose and lectin on Agrobacterium transformation efficiency was investigated in this study. Barley callus cultures were transformed with the AGL1 strain containing the vector pBI121 in the presence of 10 mg mL(-1) cellulose or 0.001, 0.05 and 0.1 mg mL(-1) lectin. Addition of cellulose significantly (P ≤ 0.05) increased the number of GUS spots by 50 % compared to standard conditions in the presence of only 200 μM acetosyringone (AS). Frequency of G418-resistant aggregates on the surfaces of callus cultures was 29 and 71.5 %, following AS and AS + cellulose treatments, respectively, after 4 weeks of selection. Presence of 0.05 or 0.1 mg mL(-1) lectin also increased the number of GUS spots and frequency of G418-resistant cells in the selection period, but the increase in blue spots was not significant. We examined the effect of lectin and cellulose on bacterial attachment to callus tissues. Both cellulose and lectin were found to have a significant positive effect on the numbers of bacteria attached to barley callus. Epifluorescence microscopy revealed that Agrobacterium cells had accumulated in the scaffolds of irregular fibrous cellulose with a mean particle size of 200 μm. Expression of nptII in transformed callus lines confirmed the stable transformation of the gene. Our study showed for the first time the binding of Agrobacterium cells to fibrous cellulose and also demonstrated how polysaccharides and glycoproteins can be used to improve T-DNA transfer in monocotyledon transformation procedures.
Preharvest sprouting is a serious problem in grain crop production because it causes quality deterioration and economic losses. It is well known that grain colour is closely associated with grain dormancy in wheat; white-grained lines without accumulating proanthocyanidins in testa tend to be more susceptible to preharvest sprouting than red ones. All available white-grained wheat lines are restricted to triple recessive mutations at the R loci (R-A1, R-B1, and R-D1), but barley is known to have 11 independent loci conferring the proanthocyanidin-free grain phenotype. In this study, we evaluated the dormancy levels of anthocyanin/proanthocyanidin-free ant17 mutants. Three ant17 mutants showed the same levels of dormancy as their respective wild types. Sequencing of three independent ant17 alleles detected a point mutation within the coding regions of flavanone-3-hydroxylase (F3H), which are predicted to cause a premature stop codon at different sites. The F3H locus completely cosegregated with the Ant17 position on the chromosome arm 2HL. Expression of the barley F3H gene was observed in pigmented tissues, but not in nonpigmented roots and stems. This result indicates that wheat F3H may be a promising new target locus for breeding white-grained lines with a practical level of preharvest sprouting resistance.
Bacteria are able to communicate with each other and sense their environment in a population density dependent mechanism known as quorum sensing (QS). N-acyl-homoserine lactones (AHLs) are the QS signaling compounds of Gram-negative bacteria which are frequent colonizers of rhizospheres. While cross-kingdom signaling and AHL-dependent gene expression in plants has been confirmed, the responses of enzyme activities in the eukaryotic host upon AHLs are unknown. Since AHL are thought to be used as so-called plant boosters or strengthening agents, which might change their resistance toward radiation and/or xenobiotic stress, we have examined the plants' pigment status and their antioxidative and detoxifying capacities upon AHL treatment. Because the yield of a crop plant should not be negatively influenced, we have also checked for growth and root parameters. We investigated the influence of three different AHLs, namely N-hexanoyl- (C6-HSL), N-octanoyl- (C8-HSL), and N-decanoyl- homoserine lactone (C10-HSL) on two agricultural crop plants. The AHL-effects on Hordeum vulgare (L.) as an example of a monocotyledonous crop and on the tropical leguminous crop plant Pachyrhizus erosus (L.) were compared. While plant growth and pigment contents in both plants showed only small responses to the applied AHLs, AHL treatment triggered tissue- and compound-specific changes in the activity of important detoxification enzymes. The activity of dehydroascorbate reductase in barley shoots after C10-HSL treatment for instance increased up to 384% of control plant levels, whereas superoxide dismutase activity in barley roots was decreased down to 23% of control levels upon C6-HSL treatment. Other detoxification enzymes reacted similarly within this range, with interesting clusters of positive or negative answers toward AHL treatment. In general the changes on the enzyme level were more severe in barley than in yam bean which might be due to the different abilities of the plants to degrade AHLs to metabolites such as the hydroxy- or keto-form of the original compound.
Low zinc (Zn) in soils reduces yield and grain Zn content. Regulation of ZRT/IRT-like protein (ZIP) family genes is a major mechanism in plant adaptation to low and fluctuating Zn in soil. Although several Zn deficiency-inducible ZIP genes are identified in cereals, there has been no systematic study on the association of Zn deficiency-induced uptake and root-to-shoot translocation with expression of ZIP family genes. We measured Zn deficiency-induced uptake and root-to-shoot translocation of Zn in barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants by resupplying 0.5 μM Zn, and quantified the transcripts of thirteen HvZIP genes. Subcellular localization and tissue-specific expression were also determined for Zn deficiency-inducible HvZIP genes. Zn deficiency enhanced the capacity of uptake and root-to-shoot translocation of Zn, and sustained the enhanced capacity for 6 d after Zn resupply. Six HvZIP genes were highly induced in roots of Zn-deficient plants, and their proteins were localized in the plasma membrane. Tissue-specific expression in roots supports their roles in uptake and root-to-shoot translocation of Zn under low Zn conditions. Our results provide a comprehensive view on the physiological roles of ZIP genes in plant adaptation to low and fluctuating Zn in soil, and pave the way for development of new strategies to improve Zn-deficiency tolerance and biofortification in cereals.
While the gargantuan multi-nation effort of sequencing T. aestivum gets close to completion, the annotation process for the vast number of wheat genes and proteins is in its infancy. Previous experimental studies carried out on model plant organisms such as A. thaliana and O. sativa provide a plethora of gene annotations that can be used as potential starting points for wheat gene annotations, proven that solid cross-species gene-to-gene and protein-to-protein correspondences are provided. DNA and protein sequences and corresponding annotations for T. aestivum and 9 other plant species were collected from Ensembl Plants release 22 and curated. Cliques of predicted 1-to-1 orthologs were identified and an annotation enrichment model was defined based on existing gene-GO term associations and phylogenetic relationships among wheat and 9 other plant species. A total of 13 cliques of size 10 were identified, which represent putative functionally equivalent genes and proteins in the 10 plant species. Eighty-five new and more specific GO terms were associated with wheat genes in the 13 cliques of size 10, which represent a 65% increase compared with the previously 130 known GO terms. Similar expression patterns for 4 genes from Arabidopsis, barley, maize and rice in cliques of size 10 provide experimental evidence to support our model. Overall, based on clique size equal or larger than 3, our model enriched the existing gene-GO term associations for 7,838 (8%) wheat genes, of which 2,139 had no previous annotation. Our novel comparative genomics approach enriches existing T. aestivum gene annotations based on cliques of predicted 1-to-1 orthologs, phylogenetic relationships and existing gene ontologies from 9 other plant species.
Wild salt-tolerant barley (Hordeum spontaneum) is the ancestor of cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare or H. vulgare). Although the cultivated barley genome is well studied, little is known about genome structure and function of its wild ancestor. In the present study, RNA-Seq analysis was performed on young leaves of wild barley treated with salt (500mM NaCl) at four different time intervals. Transcriptome sequencing yielded 103 to 115 million reads for all replicates of each treatment, corresponding to over 10 billion nucleotides per sample. Of the total reads, between 74.8 and 80.3% could be mapped and 77.4 to 81.7% of the transcripts were found in the H. vulgare unigene database (unigene-mapped). The unmapped wild barley reads for all treatments and replicates were assembled de novo and the resulting contigs were used as a new reference genome. This resulted in 94.3 to 95.3% of the unmapped reads mapping to the new reference. The number of differentially expressed transcripts was 9277, 3861 of which were unigene-mapped. The annotated unigene- and de novo-mapped transcripts (5100) were utilized to generate expression clusters across time of salt stress treatment. Two-dimensional hierarchical clustering classified differential expression profiles into nine expression clusters, four of which were selected for further analysis. Differentially expressed transcripts were assigned to the main functional categories. The most important groups were "response to external stimulus" and "electron-carrier activity". Highly expressed transcripts are involved in several biological processes, including electron transport and exchanger mechanisms, flavonoid biosynthesis, reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging, ethylene production, signaling network and protein refolding. The comparisons demonstrated that mRNA-Seq is an efficient method for the analysis of differentially expressed genes and biological processes under salt stress.
Methionine is a sulfur amino acid standing at the crossroads of several biosynthetic pathways. In fungi, the last step of methionine biosynthesis is catalyzed by a cobalamine-independent methionine synthase (Met6, EC 2.1.1.14). In the present work, we studied the role of Met6 in the infection process of the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae. To this end MET6 null mutants were obtained by targeted gene replacement. On minimum medium, MET6 null mutants were auxotrophic for methionine. Even when grown in presence of excess methionine, these mutants displayed developmental defects, such as reduced mycelium pigmentation, aerial hypha formation and sporulation. They also displayed characteristic metabolic signatures such as increased levels of cysteine, cystathionine, homocysteine, S-adenosylmethionine, S-adenosylhomocysteine while methionine and glutathione levels remained unchanged. These metabolic perturbations were associated with the over-expression of MgCBS1 involved in the reversed transsulfuration pathway that metabolizes homocysteine into cysteine and MgSAM1 and MgSAHH1 involved in the methyl cycle. This suggests a physiological adaptation of M. oryzae to metabolic defects induced by the loss of Met6, in particular an increase in homocysteine levels. Pathogenicity assays showed that MET6 null mutants were non-pathogenic on both barley and rice leaves. These mutants were defective in appressorium-mediated penetration and invasive infectious growth. These pathogenicity defects were rescued by addition of exogenous methionine and S-methylmethionine. These results show that M. oryzae cannot assimilate sufficient methionine from plant tissues and must synthesize this amino acid de novo to fulfill its sulfur amino acid requirement during infection.
The ability to increase cellulose content and improve the stem strength of cereals could have beneficial applications in stem lodging and producing crops with higher cellulose content for biofuel feedstocks. Here, such potential is explored in the commercially important crop barley through the manipulation of cellulose synthase genes (CesA). Barley plants transformed with primary cell wall (PCW) and secondary cell wall (SCW) barley cellulose synthase (HvCesA) cDNAs driven by the CaMV 35S promoter, were analysed for growth and morphology, transcript levels, cellulose content, stem strength, tissue morphology and crystalline cellulose distribution. Transcript levels of the PCW HvCesA transgenes were much lower than expected and silencing of both the endogenous CesA genes and introduced transgenes was often observed. These plants showed no aberrant phenotypes. Although attempts to over-express the SCW HvCesA genes also resulted in silencing of the transgenes and endogenous SCW HvCesA genes, aberrant phenotypes were sometimes observed. These included brittle nodes and, with the 35S:HvCesA4 construct, a more severe dwarfing phenotype, where xylem cells were irregular in shape and partially collapsed. Reductions in cellulose content were also observed in the dwarf plants and transmission electron microscopy showed a significant decrease in cell wall thickness. However, there were no increases in overall crystalline cellulose content or stem strength in the CesA over-expression transgenic plants, despite the use of a powerful constitutive promoter. The results indicate that the cellulose biosynthetic pathway is tightly regulated, that individual CesA proteins may play different roles in the synthase complex, and that the sensitivity to CesA gene manipulation observed here suggests that in planta engineering of cellulose levels is likely to require more sophisticated strategies.
Alanine aminotransferase (AlaAT, E.C. 2.6.1.2), is a pyridoxal-5'-phosphate-dependent (PLP) enzyme that catalyzes the reversible transfer of an amino group from alanine to 2-oxoglutarate to produce glutamate and pyruvate, or vice versa. It has been well documented in both greenhouse and field studies that tissue-specific over-expression of AlaAT from barley (Hordeum vulgare, HvAlaAT) results in a significant increase in plant NUE in both canola and rice. While the physical phenotypes associated with over-expression of HvAlaAT have been well characterized, the role this enzyme plays in vivo to create a more N efficient plant remains unknown. Furthermore, the importance of HvAlaAT, in contrast to other AlaAT enzyme homologues in creating this phenotype has not yet been explored. To address the role of AlaAT in NUE, AlaAT variants from diverse sources and different subcellular locations, were expressed in the wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 background and alaat1;2 (alaat1-1;alaat2-1) knockout background in various N environments. The analysis and comparison of both the physical and physiological properties of AlaAT over-expressing transgenic plants demonstrated significant differences between plants expressing the different AlaAT enzymes under different external conditions. This analysis indicates that the over-expression of AlaAT variants other than HvAlaAT in crop plants could further increase the NUE phenotype(s) previously observed.
Tillers are vegetative branches that develop from axillary buds located in the leaf axils at the base of many grasses. Genetic manipulation of tillering is a major objective in breeding for improved cereal yields and competition with weeds. Despite this, very little is known about the molecular genetic bases of tiller development in important Triticeae crops such as barley (Hordeum vulgare) and wheat (Triticum aestivum). Recessive mutations at the barley Uniculme4 (Cul4) locus cause reduced tillering, deregulation of the number of axillary buds in an axil, and alterations in leaf proximal-distal patterning. We isolated the Cul4 gene by positional cloning and showed that it encodes a BROAD-COMPLEX, TRAMTRACK, BRIC-À-BRAC-ankyrin protein closely related to Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) BLADE-ON-PETIOLE1 (BOP1) and BOP2. Morphological, histological, and in situ RNA expression analyses indicate that Cul4 acts at axil and leaf boundary regions to control axillary bud differentiation as well as the development of the ligule, which separates the distal blade and proximal sheath of the leaf. As, to our knowledge, the first functionally characterized BOP gene in monocots, Cul4 suggests the partial conservation of BOP gene function between dicots and monocots, while phylogenetic analyses highlight distinct evolutionary patterns in the two lineages.
The significance of the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT)-III in cereal endosperm has been shown by the identification of the recessive mutant supernumerary aleurone layer1 (SAL1) in maize. ESCRT-III is indispensable in the final membrane fission step during biogenesis of multivesicular bodies (MVBs), responsible for protein sorting to vacuoles and to the cell surface. Here, we annotated barley ESCRT-III members in the (model) crop Hordeum vulgare and show that all identified members are expressed in developing barley endosperm. We used fluorescently tagged core ESCRT-III members HvSNF7a/CHMP4 and HvVPS24/CHMP3 and the associated ESCRT-III component HvVPS60a/CHMP5 for transient localization studies in barley endosperm. In vivo confocal microscopic analyses show that the localization of recombinantly expressed HvSNF7a, HvVPS24 and HvVPS60a differs within barley endosperm. Whereas HvSNF7a induces large agglomerations, HvVPS24 shows mainly cytosolic localization in aleurone and subaleurone. In contrast, HvVPS60a localizes strongly at the plasma membrane in aleurone. In subaleurone, HvVPS60a was found to a lesser extent at the plasma membrane and at vacuolar membranes. These results indicate that the steady-state association of ESCRT-III may be influenced by cell layer-specific protein deposition or trafficking and remodelling of the endomembrane system in endosperm. We show that sorting of an artificially mono-ubiquitinated Arabidopsis plasma membrane protein is inhibited by HvVPS60a in aleurone. The involvement of HvVPS60a in different cell layer-specific trafficking pathways, reflected by localization of HvVPS60a at the plasma membrane in aleurone and at the PSV membrane in subaleurone, is discussed.
For accurate and reliable gene expression analysis using quantitative real-time reverse transcription PCR (qPCR), the selection of appropriate reference genes as an internal control for normalization is crucial. We hypothesized that non-coding, small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs)would be stably expressed in different barley varieties and under different experimental treatments,in different tissues and at different developmental stages of plant growth and therefore might prove to be suitable reference genes for expression analysis of both microRNAs (miRNAs)and mRNAs. In this study, we examined the expression stability of ten candidate reference genes in six barley genotypes under five experimental stresses, drought, fungal infection,boron toxicity, nutrient deficiency and salinity. We compared four commonly used housekeeping genes; Actin (ACT), alpha-Tubulin (α-TUB), Glycolytic glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase(GAPDH), ADP-ribosylation factor 1-like protein (ADP), four snoRNAs; (U18,U61, snoR14 and snoR23) and two microRNAs (miR168, miR159) as candidate reference genes. We found that ADP, snoR14 and snoR23 were ranked as the best of these candidates across diverse samples. Additionally, we found that miR168 was a suitable reference gene for expression analysis in barley. Finally, we validated the performance of our stable and unstable candidate reference genes for both mRNA and miRNA qPCR data normalization under different stress conditions and demonstrated the superiority of the stable candidates. Our data demonstrate the suitability of barley snoRNAs and miRNAs as potential reference genes form iRNA and mRNA qPCR data normalization under different stress treatments [corrected].
Pathogens secrete effector proteins to establish a successful interaction with their host. Here, we describe two barley (Hordeum vulgare) powdery mildew candidate secreted effector proteins, CSEP0105 and CSEP0162, which contribute to pathogen success and appear to be required during or after haustorial formation. Silencing of either CSEP using host-induced gene silencing significantly reduced the fungal haustorial formation rate. Interestingly, both CSEPs interact with the barley small heat shock proteins, Hsp16.9 and Hsp17.5, in a yeast two-hybrid assay. Small heat shock proteins are known to stabilize several intracellular proteins, including defense-related signaling components, through their chaperone activity. CSEP0105 and CSEP0162 localized to the cytosol and the nucleus of barley epidermal cells, whereas Hsp16.9 and Hsp17.5 are cytosolic. Intriguingly, only those specific CSEPs changed localization and became restricted to the cytosol when coexpressed with Hsp16.9 and Hsp17.5, confirming the CSEP-small heat shock protein interaction. As predicted, Hsp16.9 showed chaperone activity, as it could prevent the aggregation of Escherichia coli proteins during thermal stress. Remarkably, CSEP0105 compromised this activity. These data suggest that CSEP0105 promotes virulence by interfering with the chaperone activity of a barley small heat shock protein essential for defense and stress responses.
Ca plays an essential role in bone development; however, little is known about its effect on intestinal gene expression in juvenile animals. In the present study, thirty-two weaned pigs (9·5 (SEM 0·11) kg) were assigned to four diets that differed in Ca concentration (adequate v. high) and cereal composition (wheat-barley v. maize) to assess the jejunal and colonic gene expression of nutrient transporters, tight junction proteins, cytokines and pathogen-associated molecular patterns, nutrient digestibility, Ca balance and serum acute-phase response. To estimate the impact of mucosal bacteria on colonic gene expression, Spearman's correlations between colonic gene expression and bacterial abundance were computed. Faecal Ca excretion indicated that more Ca was available along the intestinal tract of the pigs fed high Ca diets as compared to the pigs fed adequate Ca diets (P> 0.05). High Ca diets decreased jejunal zonula occludens 1 (ZO1) and occludin (OCLN) expression, up-regulated jejunal expression of toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and down-regulated colonic GLUT2 expression as compared to the adequate Ca diets (P< 0.05). Dietary cereal composition up-regulated jejunal TLR2 expression and interacted (P= 0.021) with dietary Ca on colonic IL1B expression; high Ca concentration up-regulated IL1B expression with wheat-barley diets and down-regulated it with maize diets. Spearman's correlations (r> 0·35; P< 0·05) indicated an association between operational taxonomic units assigned to the phyla Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes and Proteobacteria and bacterial metabolites and mucosal gene expression in the colon. The present results indicate that high Ca diets have the potential to modify the jejunal and colonic mucosal gene expression response which, in turn, interacts with the composition of the basal diet and mucosa-associated bacteria in weaned pigs.
Heterodera avenae (cereal cyst nematode, CCN) infects the roots of barley (Hordeum vulgare) forming syncytial feeding sites. In resistant host plants, relatively few females develop to maturity. Little is known about the physiological and biochemical changes induced during CCN infection. Responses to CCN infection were investigated in resistant (Rha2) and susceptible barley cultivars through histological, compositional and transcriptional analysis. Two phases were identified that influence CCN viability, including feeding site establishment and subsequent cyst maturation. Syncytial development progressed faster in the resistant cultivar Chebec than in the susceptible cultivar Skiff, and was accompanied by changes in cell wall polysaccharide abundance, particularly (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan. Transcriptional profiling identified several glycosyl transferase genes, including CELLULOSE SYNTHASE-LIKE F10 (HvCslF10), which may contribute to differences in polysaccharide abundance between resistant and susceptible cultivars. In barley, Rha2-mediated CCN resistance drives rapid deterioration of CCN feeding sites, specific changes in cell wall-related transcript abundance and changes in cell wall composition. During H. avenae infection, (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan may influence CCN feeding site development by limiting solute flow, similar to (1,3)-β-glucan during dicot cyst nematode infections. Dynamic transcriptional changes in uncharacterized HvCslF genes, possibly involved in (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan synthesis, suggest a role for these genes in the CCN infection process.
Mature embryos in tissue cultures are advantageous because of their abundance and rapid germination, which reduces genomic instability problems. In this study, 2-day-old isolated mature barley embryos were infected with 2 Agrobacterium hypervirulent strains (AGL1 and EHA105), followed by a 3-day period of co-cultivation in the presence of L-cystein amino acid. Chimeric expression of the b-glucuronidase gene (gusA) directed by a viral promoter of strawberry vein banding virus was observed in coleoptile epidermal cells and seminal roots in 5-day-old germinated seedlings. In addition to varying infectivity patterns in different strains, there was a higher ratio of transient b-glucuronidase expression in developing coleoptiles than in embryonic roots, indicating the high competency of shoot apical meristem cells in the mature embryo. A total of 548 explants were transformed and 156 plants developed to maturity on G418 media after 18-25 days. We detected transgenes in 74% of the screened plant leaves by polymerase chain reaction, and 49% of these expressed neomycin phosphotransferase II gene following AGL1 transformation. Ten randomly selected T0 transformants were analyzed using thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chain reaction and 24 fragments ranged between 200-600 base pairs were sequenced. Three of the sequences flanked with transferred-DNA showed high similarity to coding regions of the barley genome, including alpha tubulin5, homeobox 1, and mitochondrial 16S genes. We observed 70-200-base pair filler sequences only in the coding regions of barley in this study.
Leaf senescence is a tightly regulated developmental or stress-induced process. It is accompanied by dramatic changes in cell metabolism and structure, eventually leading to the disintegration of chloroplasts, the breakdown of leaf proteins, internucleosomal fragmentation of nuclear DNA and ultimately cell death. In light of the global and intense reorganization of the senescing leaf transcriptome, measuring time-course gene expression patterns in this model is challenging due to the evident problems associated with selecting stable reference genes. We have used oligonucleotide microarray data to identify 181 genes with stable expression in the course of dark-induced senescence of barley leaf. From those genes, we selected 5 candidates and confirmed their invariant expression by both reverse transcription quantitative PCR and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR). We used the selected reference genes to normalize the level of the expression of the following senescence-responsive genes in ddPCR assays: SAG12, ICL, AGXT, CS and RbcS. We were thereby able to achieve a substantial reduction in the data variability. Although the use of reference genes is not considered mandatory in ddPCR assays, our results show that it is advisable in special cases, specifically those that involve the following conditions: i) a low number of repeats, ii) the detection of low-fold changes in gene expression or iii) series data comparisons (such as time-course experiments) in which large sample variation greatly affects the overall gene expression profile and biological interpretation of the data.
The antioxidant potential of carotenoids from aleurone, germ, and endosperm fractions of barley, corn, and wheat has been evaluated. HPLC analysis confirmed the presence of lutein and zeaxanthin carotenoids (nd-15139 μg/kg) in extracts of cereal grain fractions. The antioxidant properties using 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl, oxygen radical absorbance capacity, 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) assays revealed significantly higher (P<0.001) antioxidant activity in the germ than in the aleurone and endosperm fractions. Using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazolyl-2)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, 2,2'azobis (2-amidinopropane)dihydrochloride (AAPH)-induced cell loss was effectively reduced by preincubating Caco-2, HT-29, and FHs 74 Int cells with carotenoid extracts. Moreover, carotenoid extracts reduced (P<0.001) AAPH-induced intracellular oxidation in the cell lines, suggesting antioxidant activity. Of the 84 antioxidant pathway genes included in microarray array analysis (HT-29 cells), the expressions of 28 genes were enhanced (P<0.05). Our findings suggest that carotenoids of germ, aleurone, and endosperm fractions improved antioxidant capacity and thus have the potential to mitigate oxidative stress.
Glutamine synthetase and asparagine synthetase are two master enzymes involved in ammonium assimilation in plants. Their roles in nitrogen remobilization and nitrogen use efficiency have been proposed. In this report, the genes coding for the cytosolic glutamine synthetases (HvGS1) and asparagine synthetases (HvASN) in barley were identified. In addition to the three HvGS1 and two HvASN sequences previously reported, two prokaryotic-like HvGS1 and three HvASN cDNA sequences were identified. Gene structures were then characterized, obtaining full genomic sequences. The response of the five HvGS1 and five HvASN genes to leaf senescence was then studied. Developmental senescence was studied using primary and flag leaves. Dark-exposure or low-nitrate conditions were also used to trigger stress-induced senescence. Well-known senescence markers such as the chlorophyll and Rubisco contents were monitored in order to characterize senescence levels in the different leaves. The three eukaryotic-like HvGS1_1, HvGS1_2, and HvGS1_3 sequences showed the typical senescence-induced reduction in gene expression described in many plant species. By contrast, the two prokaryotic-like HvGS1_4 and HvGS1_5 sequences were repressed by leaf senescence, similar to the HvGS2 gene, which encodes the chloroplast glutamine synthetase isoenzyme. There was a greater contrast in the responses of the five HvASN and this suggested that these genes are needed for N remobilization in senescing leaves only when plants are well fertilized with nitrate. Responses of the HvASN sequences to dark-induced senescence showed that there are two categories of asparagine synthetases, one induced in the dark and the other repressed by the same conditions.
The organization of centromeric chromatin of diploid barley (Hordeum vulgare) encoding two (α and β) CENH3 variants was analysed by super-resolution microscopy. Antibody staining revealed that both CENH3 variants are organized in distinct but intermingled subdomains in interphase, mitotic and meiotic centromeres. Artificially extended chromatin fibres illustrate that these subdomains are formed by polynucleosome clusters. Thus, a CENH3 variant-specific loading followed by the arrangement into specific intermingling subdomains forming the centromere region appears. The CENH3 composition and transcription vary among different tissues. In young embryos, most interphase centromeres are composed of both CENH3 variants, while in meristematic root cells, a high number of nuclei contain βCENH3 mainly dispersed within the nucleoplasm. A similar distribution and no preferential arrangement of the two CENH3 variants in relationship to the spindle poles suggest that both homologs meet the same function in metaphase cells.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) double mutants Hv-Hd/tw2, formed by hybridization, are characterized by inherited phenotypic instability and by several new features, such as bract/leaf-like structures, long naked gaps in the spike, and a wide spectrum of variations in the basic and ectopic flowers, which are absent in single mutants. Several of these features resemble those of mutations in auxin distribution, and thus the aim of this study was to determine whether auxin imbalances are related to phenotypic variations and instability. The effects of auxin inhibitors and 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid) on variation in basic and ectopic flowers were therefore examined, together with the effects of 2,4-D on spike structure. The character of phenotypic instability and the effects of auxin inhibitors and 2,4-D were compared in callus cultures and intact plants of single homeotic Hv-tw2 and Hv-Hooded/Kap (in the BKn3 gene) mutants and alternative double mutant lines: offspring from individual plants in distal hybrid generations (F9-F10) that all had the same BKn3 allele as determined by DNA sequencing. For intact plants, two auxin inhibitors, 9-hydroxyfluorene-9-carboxylic acid (HFCA) and p-chlorophenoxyisobutyric acid (PCIB), were used. Callus growth and flower/spike structures of the Hv-tw2 mutant differed in their responses to HFCA and PCIB. An increase in normal basic flowers after exposure to auxin inhibitors and a decrease in their frequencies caused by 2,4-D were observed, and there were also modifications in the spectra of ectopic flowers, especially those with sexual organs, but the effects depended on the genotype. Exposure to 2,4-D decreased the frequency of short gaps and lodicule transformations in Hv-tw2 and of long naked gaps in double mutants. The effects of auxin inhibitors and 2,4-D suggest that ectopic auxin maxima or deficiencies arise in various regions of the inflorescence/flower primordia. Based on the phenotypic instability observed, definite trends in the development of ectopic flower structures may be detected, from insignificant outgrowths on awns to flowers with sterile organs. Phenotypically unstable barley double mutants provide a highly promising genetic system for the investigation of gene expression modules and trend orders.
Increased tolerance of crops to low oxygen (hypoxia) during flooding is a key target for food security. In Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh., the N-end rule pathway of targeted proteolysis controls plant responses to hypoxia by regulating the stability of group VII ethylene response factor (ERFVII) transcription factors, controlled by the oxidation status of amino terminal (Nt)-cysteine (Cys). Here, we show that the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) ERFVII BERF1 is a substrate of the N-end rule pathway in vitro. Furthermore, we show that Nt-Cys acts as a sensor for hypoxia in vivo, as the stability of the oxygen-sensor reporter protein MCGGAIL-GUS increased in waterlogged transgenic plants. Transgenic RNAi barley plants, with reduced expression of the N-end rule pathway N-recognin E3 ligase PROTEOLYSIS6 (HvPRT6), showed increased expression of hypoxia-associated genes and altered seed germination phenotypes. In addition, in response to waterlogging, transgenic plants showed sustained biomass, enhanced yield, retention of chlorophyll, and enhanced induction of hypoxia-related genes. HvPRT6 RNAi plants also showed reduced chlorophyll degradation in response to continued darkness, often associated with waterlogged conditions. Barley Targeting Induced Local Lesions IN Genomes (TILLING) lines, containing mutant alleles of HvPRT6, also showed increased expression of hypoxia-related genes and phenotypes similar to RNAi lines. We conclude that the N-end rule pathway represents an important target for plant breeding to enhance tolerance to waterlogging in barley and other cereals.
Using Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings, we identified a range of small fluorescent probes that entered the translocation stream and were unloaded at the root tip. These probes had absorbance/emission maxima ranging from 367/454 to 546/576 nm and represent a versatile toolbox for studying phloem transport. Of the probes that we tested, naturally occurring fluorescent coumarin glucosides (esculin and fraxin) were phloem loaded and transported in oocytes by the sucrose transporter, AtSUC2. Arabidopsis plants in which AtSUC2 was replaced with barley (Hordeum vulgare) sucrose transporter (HvSUT1), which does not transport esculin in oocytes, failed to load esculin into the phloem. In wild-type plants, the fluorescence of esculin decayed to background levels about 2 h after phloem unloading, making it a suitable tracer for pulse-labeling studies of phloem transport. We identified additional probes, such as carboxytetraethylrhodamine, a red fluorescent probe that, unlike esculin, was stable for several hours after phloem unloading and could be used to study phloem transport in Arabidopsis lines expressing green fluorescent protein.
In nature, plants are often exposed to combinations of different stresses at the same time, while in many laboratory studies of molecular stress induction phenomena, single stress responses are analyzed. This study aims to identify the common (i.e. more general stress-responsive) and the stress-specific adjustments of the leaf proteome of wild barley to two often co-occurring stress phenomena, i.e. in response to (long-term) drought acclimation (DA) or to (transient) heat stress (HS). In addition, we analyzed those alterations which are specific for the combination of both stresses. Leaf proteome analysis was performed using 2D difference gel electrophoresis followed by protein identification via mass spectrometry with a 1.5 threshold value of changes in relative protein contents. DA resulted in specific upregulation of proteins with cell detoxification functions, water homeostasis maintenance, amino acids synthesis and lipid metabolism and distinct forms of heat shock proteins (HSPs) and proteins with chaperon functions while proteins related to nitrogen metabolism were downregulated. This response was distinguished from the response to transient HS, which included upregulation of a broad range of HSP products. The common response to both stressors revealed upregulation of additional forms of HSPs and the downregulation of enzymes of the photosynthetic apparatus and chlorophyll binding proteins. The simultaneous exposure to both stress conditions resulted mostly in a combination of both stress responses and to unique abundance changes of proteins with yet unclear functions.
Polyphenols and phenolic acid are able to slow down or prevent oxidation processes and are therefore thought to have important effects in malting and brewing. Laccase catalyses the oxidation of a wide variety of substrates, including polyphenols. The aim of this paper was to determine the changes in polyphenol compounds and the relative expression of the HvLac1 gene during malting. The dominant phenolic acid was ferulic acid. The amount of ferulic acid increased, whereas the amount of vanillic acid decreased during malting. The highest levels of expression of the HvLac1 gene were observed during the third air rest period in varieties with the 'Haruna Nijo' (HN) allele, as recommended for the production of beer with the protected geographical indication (PGI) 'Česke pivo' (Czech beer), whereas the highest expression was observed in the first day of germination in varieties with the 'Morex' (M) allele. However, the profiles of HvLac1 gene expression in varieties with alternative alleles during malting were similar, and the level of polyphenol compounds throughout malting was different. The polyphenol contents in barley increased several-fold during malting, and the degree of increase differed with variety. The expression of HvLac1 transcript was similar in every barley variety.
Senescence is the last step of leaf development in the life span of an annual plant. Senescence can be induced prematurely by treating leaf tissues with jasmonic acid methyl ester (methyl jasmonate, MeJA). During both senescence programmes, drastic changes occur at the biochemical, cellular and ultra-structural levels that were compared here for primary leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Our findings indicate that both types of senescence are similar with respect to the morphological changes including the loss of chlorophyll, disintegration of thylakoids, and formation of plastoglobules. However, the time elapsed for reaching senescence completion was different and ranged from 7 to 8 days for artificially senescing, MeJA-treated plants to 7-8 weeks for naturally senescing plants. Pulse-labelling studies along with RNA and protein gel blot analyses showed differential changes in the expression of both plastid and nuclear genes coding for photosynthetic proteins. Several unique messenger products accumulated in naturally and artificially senescing, MeJA-treated leaves. Detailed expression and crosslinking studies revealed that pheophorbide a oxygenase (PAO), a previously implicated key enzyme of chlorophyll breakdown, is most likely not rate-limiting for chlorophyll destruction under both senescence conditions. Metabolite profiling identified differential changes in the composition of carotenoid derivatives and prenyl-lipids to occur in naturally senescing and artificially senescing plants that underscored the differences between both senescence programmes.
Intron retention in transcripts and the presence of 5' and 3' splice sites within these introns mediate alternate splicing, which is widely observed in animals and plants. Here, functional characterisation of the K(+) transporter, HvHKT2;1, with stably retained introns from barley (Hordeum vulgare) in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), and transcript profiling in yeast and transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) is presented. Expression of intron-retaining HvHKT2;1 cDNA (HvHKT2;1-i) in trk1, trk2 yeast strain defective in K(+) uptake restored growth in medium containing hygromycin in the presence of different concentrations of K(+) and mediated hypersensitivity to Na(+) . HvHKT2;1-i produces multiple transcripts via alternate splicing of two regular introns and three exons in different compositions. HKT isoforms with retained introns and exon skipping variants were detected in relative expression analysis of (i) HvHKT2;1-i in barley under native conditions, (ii) in transgenic tobacco plants constitutively expressing HvHKT2;1-i, and (iii) in trk1, trk2 yeast expressing HvHKT2;1-i under control of an inducible promoter. Mixed proportions of three HKT transcripts: HvHKT2;1-e (first exon region), HvHKT2;1-i1 (first intron) and HvHKT2;1-i2 (second intron) were observed. The variation in transcript accumulation in response to changing K(+) and Na(+) concentrations was observed in both heterologous and plant systems. These findings suggest a link between intron-retaining transcripts and different splice variants to ion homeostasis, and their possible role in salt stress.
In eukaryotic cells, MADS-box genes are known to play major regulatory roles in various biological processes by combinatorial interactions with other transcription factors. In this study, we functionally characterized the FgMCM1 MADS-box gene in Fusarium graminearum, the causal agent of wheat and barley head blight. Deletion of FgMCM1 resulted in the loss of perithecium production and phialide formation. The Fgmcm1 mutant was significantly reduced in virulence, deoxynivalenol biosynthesis and conidiation. In yeast two-hybrid assays, FgMcm1 interacted with Mat1-1-1 and Fst12, two transcription factors important for sexual reproduction. Whereas Fgmcm1 mutants were unstable and produced stunted subcultures, Fgmcm1 mat1-1-1 but not Fgmcm1 fst12 double mutants were stable. Furthermore, spontaneous suppressor mutations occurred frequently in stunted subcultures to recover growth rate. Ribonucleic acid sequencing analysis indicated that a number of sexual reproduction-related genes were upregulated in stunted subcultures compared with the Fgmcm1 mutant, which was downregulated in the expression of genes involved in pathogenesis, secondary metabolism and conidiation. We also showed that culture instability was not observed in the Fvmcm1 mutants of the heterothallic Fusarium verticillioides. Overall, our data indicate that FgMcm1 plays a critical role in the regulation of cell identity, sexual and asexual reproduction, secondary metabolism and pathogenesis in F. graminearum.
Blast caused by fungal Magnaporthe oryzae is a devastating disease of rice (Oryza sativa) worldwide, and this fungus also infects barley (Hordeum vulgare). At least 11 rice WRKY transcription factors have been reported to regulate rice response to M. oryzae either positively or negatively. However, the relationships of these WRKYs in the rice defense signaling pathway against M. oryzae are unknown. Previous studies have revealed that rice WRKY13 (as a transcriptional repressor) and WRKY45-2 enhance resistance to M. oryzae. Here, we show that rice WRKY42, functioning as a transcriptional repressor, suppresses resistance to M. oryzae. WRKY42-RNA interference (RNAi) and WRKY42-overexpressing (oe) plants showed increased resistance and susceptibility to M. oryzae, accompanied by increased or reduced jasmonic acid (JA) content, respectively, compared with wild-type plants. JA pretreatment enhanced the resistance of WRKY42-oe plants to M. oryzae. WRKY13 directly suppressed WRKY42. WRKY45-2, functioning as a transcriptional activator, directly activated WRKY13. In addition, WRKY13 directly suppressed WRKY45-2 by feedback regulation. The WRKY13-RNAi WRKY45-2-oe and WRKY13-oe WRKY42-oe double transgenic lines showed increased susceptibility to M. oryzae compared with WRKY45-2-oe and WRKY13-oe plants, respectively. These results suggest that the three WRKYs form a sequential transcriptional regulatory cascade. WRKY42 may negatively regulate rice response to M. oryzae by suppressing JA signaling-related genes, and WRKY45-2 transcriptionally activates WRKY13, whose encoding protein in turn transcriptionally suppresses WRKY42 to regulate rice resistance to M. oryzae.
During grain filling in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Barke) reserves are remobilized from vegetative organs. Glumes represent the vegetative tissues closest to grains, senesce late, and are involved in the conversion of assimilates. To analyse glume development and metabolism related to grain filling, parallel transcript and metabolite profiling in glumes and endosperm were performed, showing that glume metabolism and development adjusts to changing grain demands, reflected by specific signatures of metabolite and transcript abundances. Before high endosperm sink strength is established by storage product accumulation, glumes form early, intermediary sink organs, shifting then to remobilizing and exporting source organs. Metabolic and transcriptional transitions occur at two phases: first, at the onset of endosperm filling, as a consequence of endosperm sink activity and assimilate depletion in endosperm and vascular tissues; second, at late grain filling, by developmental ageing and senescence. Regulation of and transition between phases are probably governed by specific NAC and WRKY transcription factors, and both abscisic and jasmonic acid, and are accompanied by changed expression of specific nitrogen transporters. Expression and metabolite profiling suggest glume-specific mechanisms of assimilate conversion and translocation. In summary, grain filling and endosperm sink strength coordinate phase changes in glumes via metabolic, hormonal, and transcriptional control. This study provides a comprehensive view of barley glume development and metabolism, and identifies candidate genes and associated pathways, potentially important for breeding improved grain traits.
Seed germination that begins with imbibition and ends with radicle emergence is the first step for plant growth. Successful germination is not only crucial for seedling establishment but also important for crop yield. After being dispersed from mother plant, seed undergoes continuous desiccation in ecosystem and selects proper environment to trigger germination. Owing to the contribution of transcriptomic, proteomic, and molecular biological studies, molecular aspect of seed germination is elucidated well in Arabidopsis. Recently, more and more proteomic and genetic studies concerning cereal seed germination were performed on rice (Oryza sativa) and barley (Hordeum vulgare), which possess completely different seed structure and domestication background with Arabidopsis. In this review, both the common features and the distinct mechanisms of seed germination are compared among different plant species including Arabidopsis, rice, and maize. These features include morphological changes, cell and its related structure recovery, metabolic activation, hormone behavior, and transcription and translation activation. This review will provide more comprehensive insights into the molecular mechanisms of seed germination.
Hulless barley is an important cereal crop worldwide, especially in Tibet of China. However, this crop is usually susceptible to powdery mildew caused by Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. In this study, we aimed to understand the functions and pathways of genes involved in the disease resistance by transcriptome sequencing of a Tibetan barley landrace with high resistance to powdery mildew. A total of 831 significant differentially expressed genes were found in the infected seedlings, covering 19 functions. Either "cell," "cell part," and "extracellular region" in the cellular component category or "binding" and "catalytic" in the category of molecular function as well as "metabolic process" and "cellular process" in the biological process category together demonstrated that these functions may be involved in the resistance to powdery mildew of the hulless barley. In addition, 330 KEGG pathways were found using BLASTx with an E-value cut-off of <10(-5). Among them, three pathways, namely, "photosynthesis," "plant-pathogen interaction," and "photosynthesis-antenna proteins" had significant matches in the database. Significant expressions of the three pathways were detected at 24 h, 48 h, and 96 h after infection, respectively. These results indicated a complex process of barley response to powdery mildew infection.
MYB transcription factors exist in a large copy number and control various plant phenotypes. We cloned R2R3 MYB-type transcription factors that determine the coloration of basal sheaths in barley and wheat coleoptiles. These genes are highly homologous to maize C1 and rice OsC1, regulators for anthocyanin biosynthesis, but they control seed pigmentation in maize and rice. On the basis of high homology, barley and wheat counterparts are designated HvC1 and TaC1, respectively. HvC1 gene is located on the short arm of chromosome 7H, and TaC1 genes are located on the short arms of chromosomes 7A, 7B, and 7D (TaC1-A1, B1, and D1, respectively). HvC1 is a strong candidate for Ant1 because of (1) complete co-segregation of anthocyanin pigmentation phenotype of the basal sheath with the HvC1 genotype in genetic mapping, and (2) complete deletion of the HvCl gene in two anthocyanin-decreased allelic mutants (ant1.1 and ant1.2) that were induced by irradiation. In contrast, colorless coleoptile wheat lines had lesions in all three genomes consisting of a single-nucleotide substitution or a 1-bp deletion of TaC1-A1, a 1.7-kb insertion of TaC1-B1, and a 2.0-kb insertion of TaC1-D1. At least one normal TaC1 gene appears to be sufficient to produce anthocyanin pigments in wheat coleoptiles. Previous crossing experiments localized Rc (red coleoptile) genes to homoeologous group 7 chromosomes and deduced Rc genotypes of several wheat lines. Their TaC1 gene sequence variation coincided with deduced Rc genotypes; therefore, the present molecular genetic study demonstrates that TaC1 is a strong candidate for Rc in wheat.
Drought is a normal and recurring climate feature in most parts of the world and plays a major role in limiting crop productivity. However, plants have their own defence systems to cope with adverse climatic conditions. One of these defence mechanisms is the reprogramming of gene expression by microRNAs (miRNAs). miRNAs are small noncoding RNAs of approximately 22 nucleotides length, which have emerged as important regulators of genes at post-transcriptional levels in a range of organisms. Some miRNAs are functionally conserved across plant species and are regulated by drought stress. These properties suggest that miRNA-based genetic modifications have the potential to enhance drought tolerance in cereal crops. This review summarizes the current understanding of the regulatory mechanisms of plant miRNAs, involvement of plant miRNAs in drought stress responses in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), wheat (Triticum spp.) and other plant species, and the involvement of miRNAs in plant-adaptive mechanisms under drought stress. Potential strategies and directions for future miRNA research and the utilization of miRNAs in the improvement of cereal crops for drought tolerance are also discussed.
In this study, it was aimed to compare salinity-induced changes in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Bornova-92) and bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. Gerek-79). Seeds were germinated under saline conditions (0, 50, 100, 250, and 500 mM NaCl) for 2 days and recovered under non-saline conditions for 2 days. At the end of the salt treatment, germination, water content (WC), total soluble protein content, and catalase (CAT, EC 1.11.1.6) activity were affected in both species, while superoxide dismutase (SOD, EC 1.15.1.1) activity was affected in barley. Salinity affected WC, protein content, and CAT activity in both species, while it affected germination in barley and affected fresh weight and SOD activity in wheat after recovery. Physiological responses of both species were correlated. Expression of α-tubulin, Atls1, and Lls1 genes was down-regulated in barley after 250 mM NaCl treatment. HVA1 gene was highly (more than 50-fold) stimulated by salinity in barley. However, α-tubulin and Atls1 genes were down-regulated, and Lls1 gene was up-regulated in wheat after recovery from 250-mM NaCl treatment. Increase in HVA1 expression was not significant in wheat. The expression profiles of barley and wheat under salinity are different, and barley tended to regulate gene expression faster than wheat.
Transcription of the vernalization1 gene (VRN1) is induced by prolonged cold (vernalization) to trigger flowering of cereal crops, such as wheat and barley. VRN1 encodes a MADS box transcription factor that promotes flowering by regulating the expression of other genes. Here we use transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) to identify direct targets of VRN1. Over 500 genomic regions were identified as potential VRN1-binding targets by ChIP-seq. VRN1 binds the promoter of flowering locus T-like 1, a promoter of flowering in vernalized plants. VRN1 also targets vernalization2 and ODDSOC2, repressors of flowering that are downregulated in vernalized plants. RNA-seq identified additional VRN1 targets that might play roles in triggering flowering. Other targets of VRN1 include genes that play central roles in low-temperature-induced freezing tolerance, spike architecture and hormone metabolism. This provides evidence for direct regulatory links between the vernalization response pathway and other important traits in cereal crops.
Barley yellow mosaic virus (BaYMV) and Wheat yellow mosaic virus (WYMV) are separate species in the genus Bymovirus with bipartite plus-sense RNA genomes. In fields, BaYMV infects only barley and WYMV infects only wheat. Here, we studied the replicative capability of the two viruses in barley and wheat mesophyll protoplasts. BaYMV replicated in both barley and wheat protoplasts, but WYMV replicated only in wheat protoplasts. The expression of wheat translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E), a common host factor for potyviruses, from the WYMV genome enabled WYMV replication in barley protoplasts. Replacing the BaYMV VPg gene with that of WYMV abolished BaYMV replication in barley protoplasts, whereas the additional expression of wheat eIF4E from BaYMV genome restored the replication of the BaYMV mutant in barley protoplasts. These results indicate that both VPg and the host eIF4E are involved in the host tropism of BaYMV and WYMV at the replication level.
Cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase proteins (CKX) are encoded by a multigene family of CKX genes with a varying number of members depending on species. For some of the genes, spectacular effects on grain production in selected cereals have been observed. Despite the fact that partial or full length sequences of most HvCKX genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare) have already been published, in most cases their specific biological functions have not been reported. Detailed expression patterns for five HvCKX genes in different organs/tissues of developing barley plants coupled with analysis of RNAi silent for two genes are presented to test the hypothesis that these expression profiles might indicate their function. Elevated expression for four of them - HvCKX1, HvCKX9, HvCKX4, and HvCKX11 - was found in developing kernels of wild-type plants compared to other tissues. HvCKX5 was mainly expressed in leaf tissue. Lower expression was noted for HvCKX1 in seedling roots and for HvCKX9 in leaves. The documented effect of RNAi silencing of HvCKX1 and a trend for HvCKX9 was higher plant productivity, and the trait was inherited through four generations. Higher plant yield was determined by higher numbers of seeds and spikes. Increased productivity was significantly greater in HvCKX1 silenced plants showing higher relative expression of HvCKX1 in developing kernels of wild-type plants compared to the expression of HvCKX9. Both HvCKX1 silenced T1 seedlings of cv. Golden Promise and the newly transformed breeding line STH7308 showed greater root mass, but this trait was not inherited in the next generation. Similarly HvCKX9 silenced T1 seedlings exhibited greater plant height without inheritance in the next generation. It is suggested that these effects were not inherited because of compensation by other genes co-ordinately regulating reproductive development. One line with untypically changed, inherited phenotype, which was selected from several dozen silenced lines showing stable and common phenotypes is presented.
Small heat shock proteins (sHSPs) are chaperones that play an important role in various developmental, biotic and abiotic stresses. The sHSP family possess a conserved domain of approximately 80 to 100 amino acids called alpha-crystalline domain (ACD), flanked by N- and C-terminal regions. Search for complete proteomes and expressed sequenced tag (EST) database of wheat and barley using Hidden Markov Model and BLAST algorithm was conducted. Here, we report genome-wide identification and characterization of 27 newly TaHSP20 candidate genes in wheat and 13 HvHSP20 in barley, describing structures, phylogenetic relationships, conserved protein motifs, and expression patterns. The structural analysis highlights that this gene family possesses a conserved ACD region at the C-terminal. Detailed pattern analysis of HSP20 revealed presence of P-G doublet and I/V/L-X-I/V/L motif that helps in oligomerization. Identification of conserved motif sequences of wheat and barley HSP20 strongly supported their identity as sHSP families. This study illustrates for the first time 3D model prediction of full-length wheat HSP20 (TaHSP20) protein and ACD region. Digital expression analysis was also carried out in order to reveal a widespread distribution of the sHSP family genes at various developmental stages of wheat and barley. In addition, five selected transcripts of both wheat and barley were validated for their expression profile under 35 °C and 42 °C heat stress conditions. Results indicate up-regulation of all the transcripts under heat stress condition except TaCBM38894 candidate, which showed down-regulation in wheat.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) Mla alleles encode coiled-coil (CC), nucleotide binding, leucine-rich repeat (NB-LRR) receptors that trigger isolate-specific immune responses against the powdery mildew fungus, Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh). How Mla or NB-LRR genes in grass species are regulated at post-transcriptional level is not clear. The microRNA family, miR9863, comprises four members that differentially regulate distinct Mla alleles in barley. We show that miR9863 members guide the cleavage of Mla1 transcripts in barley, and block or reduce the accumulation of MLA1 protein in the heterologous Nicotiana benthamiana expression system. Regulation specificity is determined by variation in a unique single-nucleotide-polymorphism (SNP) in mature miR9863 family members and two SNPs in the Mla miR9863-binding site that separates these alleles into three groups. Further, we demonstrate that 22-nt miR9863s trigger the biogenesis of 21-nt phased siRNAs (phasiRNAs) and together these sRNAs form a feed-forward regulation network for repressing the expression of group I Mla alleles. Overexpression of miR9863 members specifically attenuates MLA1, but not MLA10-triggered disease resistance and cell-death signaling. We propose a key role of the miR9863 family in dampening immune response signaling triggered by a group of MLA immune receptors in barley.
The koji mold Aspergillus kawachii is used for making the Japanese distilled spirit shochu. During shochu production, A. kawachii is grown in solid-state culture (koji) on steamed grains, such as rice or barley, to convert the grain starch to glucose and produce citric acid. During this process, the cultivation temperature of A. kawachii is gradually increased to 40 °C and is then lowered to 30 °C. This temperature modulation is important for stimulating amylase activity and the accumulation of citric acid. However, the effects of temperature on A. kawachii at the gene expression level have not been elucidated. In this study, we investigated the effect of solid-state cultivation temperature on gene expression for A. kawachii grown on barley. The results of DNA microarray and gene ontology analyses showed that the expression of genes involved in the glycerol, trehalose, and pentose phosphate metabolic pathways, which function downstream of glycolysis, was downregulated by shifting the cultivation temperature from 40 to 30 °C. In addition, significantly reduced expression of genes related to heat shock responses and increased expression of genes related with amino acid transport were also observed. These results suggest that solid-state cultivation at 40 °C is stressful for A. kawachii and that heat adaptation leads to reduced citric acid accumulation through activation of pathways branching from glycolysis. The gene expression profile of A. kawachii elucidated in this study is expected to contribute to the understanding of gene regulation during koji production and optimization of the industrially desirable characteristics of A. kawachii.
Fusarium equiseti is a toxigenic species that often contaminates cereal crops from diverse climatic regions such as Northern and Southern Europe. Previous results suggested the existence of two distinct populations within this species with differences in toxin profile which largely corresponded to North and South Europe (Spain). In this work, growth rate profiles of 4 F. equiseti strains isolated from different cereals and distinct Spanish regions were determined on wheat and barley based media at a range of temperatures (15, 20, 25, 30, 35 and 40°C) and water potential regimens (-0.7, -2.8, -7.0, and -9.8MPa, corresponding to 0.99, 0.98, 0.95 and 0.93 aw values). Growth was observed at all temperatures except at 40°C, and at all the solute potential values except at -9.8MPa when combined with 15°C. Optimal growth was observed at 20-30°C and -0.7/-2.8MPa. The effect of these factors on trichothecene biosynthesis was examined on a F. equiseti strain using a newly developed real time RT-PCR protocol to quantify TRI5 gene expression at 15, 25 and 35°C and -0.7, -2.8, -7.0 and -9.8MPa on wheat and barley based media. Induction of TRI5 expression was detected between 25 and 35°C and -0.7 and -2.8MPa, with maximum values at 35°C and -2.8MPa being higher in barley than in wheat medium. These results appeared to be consistent with a population well adapted to the present climatic conditions and predicted scenarios for Southern Europe and suggested some differences depending on the cereal considered. These are also discussed in relation to other Fusarium species co-occurring in cereals grown in this region and to their significance for prediction and control strategies of toxigenic risk in future scenarios of climate change for this region.
Boron (B) is an essential micronutrient for optimum plant growth. However, above certain threshold B is toxic and causes yield loss in agricultural lands. While a number of studies were conducted to understand B tolerance mechanism, a transcriptome-wide approach for B tolerant barley is performed here for the first time. A high-throughput RNA-Seq (cDNA) sequencing technology (Illumina) was used with barley (Hordeum vulgare), yielding 208 million clean reads. In total, 256,874 unigenes were generated and assigned to known peptide databases: Gene Ontology (GO) (99,043), Swiss-Prot (38,266), Clusters of Orthologous Groups (COG) (26,250), and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) (36,860), as determined by BLASTx search. According to the digital gene expression (DGE) analyses, 16% and 17% of the transcripts were found to be differentially regulated in root and leaf tissues, respectively. Most of them were involved in cell wall, stress response, membrane, protein kinase and transporter mechanisms. Some of the genes detected as highly expressed in root tissue are phospholipases, predicted divalent heavy-metal cation transporters, formin-like proteins and calmodulin/Ca(2+)-binding proteins. In addition, chitin-binding lectin precursor, ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase, and serine/threonine-protein kinase AFC2 genes were indicated to be highly regulated in leaf tissue upon excess B treatment. Some pathways, such as the Ca(2+)-calmodulin system, are activated in response to B toxicity. The differential regulation of 10 transcripts was confirmed by qRT-PCR, revealing the tissue-specific responses against B toxicity and their putative function in B-tolerance mechanisms.
The timing of whole-plant senescence influences important agricultural traits such as yield and grain protein content. Post-transcriptional regulation by plant RNA-binding proteins is essential for proper control of gene expression, development, and stress responses. Here, we report the three-dimensional solution NMR structure and nucleic acid-binding properties of the barley glycine-rich RNA-binding protein HvGR-RBP1, whose transcript has been identified as being >45-fold up-regulated in early-as compared to late-senescing near-isogenic barley germplasm. NMR analysis reveals that HvGR-RBP1 is a multidomain protein comprising a well-folded N-terminal RNA Recognition Motif (RRM) and a structurally disordered C-terminal glycine-rich domain. Chemical shift differences observed in 2D (1)H-(15)N correlation (HSQC) NMR spectra of full-length HvGR-RBP1 and N-HvGR-RBP1 (RRM domain only) suggest that the two domains can interact both in-trans and intramolecularly, similar to what is observed in the tobacco NtGR-RBP1 protein. Further, we show that the RRM domain of HvGR-RBP1 binds single-stranded DNA nucleotide fragments containing the consensus nucleotide sequence 5'-TTCTGX-3' with low micromolar affinity in vitro. We also demonstrate that the C-terminal glycine-rich (HvGR) domain of Hv-GR-RBP1 can interact nonspecifically with ssRNA in vitro. Structural similarities with other plant glycine-rich RNA-binding proteins suggest that HvGR-RBP1 may be multifunctional. Based on gene expression analysis following cold stress in barley and E. coli growth studies following cold shock treatment, we conclude that HvGR-RBP1 functions in a manner similar to cold-shock proteins and harbors RNA chaperone activity. HvGR-RBP1 is therefore not only involved in the regulation of barley development including senescence, but also functions in plant responses to environmental stress.
Over the last years reference genome sequences of several economically and scientifically important cereals and model plants became available. Despite the agricultural significance of these crops only a small number of tools exist that allow users to inspect and visualize the genomic position of genes of interest in an interactive manner. We present chromoWIZ, a web tool that allows visualizing the genomic positions of relevant genes and comparing these data between different plant genomes. Genes can be queried using gene identifiers, functional annotations, or sequence homology in four grass species (Triticum aestivum, Hordeum vulgare, Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa). The distribution of the anchored genes is visualized along the chromosomes by using heat maps. Custom gene expression measurements, differential expression information, and gene-to-group mappings can be uploaded and can be used for further filtering. This tool is mainly designed for breeders and plant researchers, who are interested in the location and the distribution of candidate genes as well as in the syntenic relationships between different grass species. chromoWIZ is freely available and online accessible at http://mips.helmholtz-muenchen.de/plant/chromoWIZ/index.jsp.
Many metabolic processes in plants are regulated by manganese (Mn) but limited information is available on the molecular mechanisms controlling cellular Mn homeostasis. In this study, a yeast assay was used to isolate and characterize two genes, MTP8.1 and MTP8.2, which encode membrane-bound proteins belonging to the cation diffusion facilitator (CDF) family in the cereal species barley (Hordeum vulgare). Transient expression in onion epidermal cells showed that MTP8.1 and MTP8.2 proteins fused to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) are localized to Golgi. When heterologously expressed in yeast, MTP8.1 and MTP8.2 were found to be Mn transporters catalysing Mn efflux in a similar manner as the Golgi localized endogenous yeast protein Pmr1p. The level of MTP8.1 transcripts in barley roots increased with external Mn supply ranging from deficiency to toxicity, while MTP8.2 transcripts decreased under the same conditions, indicating non-overlapping functions for the two genes. In barley leaves, the expression of both MTP8 genes declined in response to toxic Mn additions to the roots suggesting a role in ensuring proper delivery of Mn to Golgi. Based on the above we suggest that barley MTP8 proteins are involved in Mn loading to the Golgi apparatus and play a role in Mn homeostasis by delivering Mn to Mn-dependent enzymes and/or by facilitating Mn efflux via secretory vesicles. This study highlights the importance of MTP transporters in Mn homeostasis and is the first report of Golgi localized Mn2+ transport proteins in a monocot plant species.
Tonoplast intrinsic proteins (TIPs) are integral membrane proteins that are known to function in plants as aquaporins. Here, we propose another role for TIPs during the fusion of protein storage vacuoles (PSVs) in aleurone cells, a process that is promoted by gibberellic acid (GA) and prevented by abscisic acid (ABA). Studies of the expression of barley (Hordeum vulgare) TIP genes (HvTIP) showed that GA specifically decreased the abundance of HvTIP1;2 and HvTIP3;1 transcripts, while ABA strongly increased expression of HvTIP3;1. Increased or decreased expression of HvTIP3;1 interfered with the hormonal effects on vacuolation in aleurone protoplasts. HvTIP3;1 gain-of-function experiments delayed GA-induced vacuolation, whereas HvTIP3;1 loss-of-function experiments promoted vacuolation in ABA-treated aleurone cells. These results indicate that TIP plays a key role in preventing the coalescence of small PSVs in aleurone cells. Hormonal regulation of the HvTIP3;1 promoter is similar to the regulation of the endogenous gene, indicating that induction of the transcription of HvTIP3;1 by ABA is a critical factor in the prevention of PSV coalescence in response to ABA. Promoter analysis using deletions and site-directed mutagenesis of sequences identified three cis-acting elements that are responsible for ABA responsiveness in the HvTIP3;1 promoter. Promoter analysis also showed that ABA responsiveness of the HvTIP3;1 promoter is likely to occur via a unique regulatory system distinct from that involving the ABA-response promoter complexes.
Non-host resistance, NHR, to non-adapted pathogens and quantitative host resistance, QR, confer durable protection to plants and are important for securing yield in a longer perspective. However, a more targeted exploitation of the trait usually possessing a complex mode of inheritance by many quantitative trait loci, QTLs, will require a better understanding of the most important genes and alleles. Here we present results from a transient-induced gene silencing, TIGS, approach of candidate genes for NHR and QR in barley against the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis. Genes were selected based on transcript regulation, multigene-family membership or genetic map position. Out of 1,144 tested RNAi-target genes, 96 significantly affected resistance to the non-adapted wheat- or the compatible barley powdery mildew fungus, with an overlap of four genes. TIGS results for QR were combined with transcript regulation data, allele-trait associations, QTL co-localization and copy number variation resulting in a meta-dataset of 51 strong candidate genes with convergent evidence for a role in QR. This study represents an initial, functional inventory of approximately 3% of the barley transcriptome for a role in NHR or QR against the powdery mildew pathogen. The discovered candidate genes support the idea that QR in this Triticeae host is primarily based on pathogen-associated molecular pattern-triggered immunity, which is compromised by effector molecules produced by the compatible pathogen. The overlap of four genes with significant TIGS effects both in the NHR and QR screens also indicates shared components for both forms of durable pathogen resistance.
The arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs) are involved in a range of plant processes, including cell differentiation and expansion. Here, barley root hair mutants and their wild-type parent cultivars were used, as a model system, to reveal the role of AGPs in root hair development. The treatment of roots with different concentrations of βGlcY (a reagent which binds to all classes of AGPs) inhibited or totally suppressed the development of root hairs in all of the cultivars. Three groups of AGP (recognized by the monoclonal antibodies LM2, LM14, and MAC207) were diversely localized in trichoblasts and atrichoblasts of root hair-producing plants. The relevant epitopes were present in wild-type trichoblast cell walls and cytoplasm, whereas in wild-type atrichoblasts and in all epidermal cells of a root hairless mutant, they were only present in the cytoplasm. In all of cultivars the higher expression of LM2, LM14, and MAC207 was observed in trichoblasts at an early stage of development. Additionally, the LM2 epitope was detected on the surface of primordia and root hair tubes in plants able to generate root hairs. The major conclusion was that the AGPs recognized by LM2, LM14, and MAC207 are involved in the differentiation of barley root epidermal cells, thereby implying a requirement for these AGPs for root hair development in barley.
In this study the effects of salt stress and nitrogen assimilation have been investigated in roots of hydroponically-grown barley plants exposed to 150 mM NaCl, in presence or absence of ammonium as the sole nitrogen source. Salt stress determines a diversion of root metabolism towards the synthesis of osmolytes, such as glycine betaine and proline, and increased levels of reduced glutathione. The metabolic changes triggered by salt stress result in a decrease in both activities and protein abundance of key enzymes, namely GOGAT and PEP carboxylase, and in a slight increase in HSP70. These variations would enhance the requirement for reductants supplied by the OPPP, consistently with the observed increase in total G6PDH activity. The involvement and occurrence of the different G6PDH isoforms have been investigated, and the kinetic properties of partially purified cytosolic and plastidial G6PDHs determined. Bioinformatic analyses examining co-expression profiles of G6PDHs in Arabidopsis and barley corroborate the data presented. Moreover, the gene coding for the root P2-G6PDH isoform was fully sequenced; the biochemical properties of the corresponding protein were examined experimentally. The results are discussed in the light of the possible distinct roles and regulation of the different G6PDH isoforms during salt stress in barley roots.
Recent developments in DNA sequencing have enabled the large and complex genomes of many crop species to be determined for the first time, even those previously intractable due to their polyploid nature. Indeed, over the course of the last 2 years, the genome sequences of several commercially important cereals, notably barley and bread wheat, have become available, as well as those of related wild species. While still incomplete, comparison with other, more completely assembled species suggests that coverage of genic regions is likely to be high. Ensembl Plants (http://plants.ensembl.org) is an integrative resource organizing, analyzing and visualizing genome-scale information for important crop and model plants. Available data include reference genome sequence, variant loci, gene models and functional annotation. For variant loci, individual and population genotypes, linkage information and, where available, phenotypic information are shown. Comparative analyses are performed on DNA and protein sequence alignments. The resulting genome alignments and gene trees, representing the implied evolutionary history of the gene family, are made available for visualization and analysis. Driven by the case of bread wheat, specific extensions to the analysis pipelines and web interface have recently been developed to support polyploid genomes. Data in Ensembl Plants is accessible through a genome browser incorporating various specialist interfaces for different data types, and through a variety of additional methods for programmatic access and data mining. These interfaces are consistent with those offered through the Ensembl interface for the genomes of non-plant species, including those of plant pathogens, pests and pollinators, facilitating the study of the plant in its environment.
Heading time is a complex trait, and natural variation in photoperiod responses is a major factor controlling time to heading, adaptation and grain yield. In barley, previous heading time studies have been mainly conducted under field conditions to measure total days to heading. We followed a novel approach and studied the natural variation of time to heading in a world-wide spring barley collection (218 accessions), comprising of 95 photoperiod-sensitive (Ppd-H1) and 123 accessions with reduced photoperiod sensitivity (ppd-H1) to long-day (LD) through dissecting pre-anthesis development into four major stages and sub-phases. The study was conducted under greenhouse (GH) conditions (LD; 16/8 h; ∼20/∼16°C day/night). Genotyping was performed using a genome-wide high density 9K single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) chip which assayed 7842 SNPs. We used the barley physical map to identify candidate genes underlying genome-wide association scans (GWAS). GWAS for pre-anthesis stages/sub-phases in each photoperiod group provided great power for partitioning genetic effects on floral initiation and heading time. In addition to major genes known to regulate heading time under field conditions, several novel QTL with medium to high effects, including new QTL having major effects on developmental stages/sub-phases were found to be associated in this study. For example, highly associated SNPs tagged the physical regions around HvCO1 (barley CONSTANS1) and BFL (BARLEY FLORICAULA/LEAFY) genes. Based upon our GWAS analysis, we propose a new genetic network model for each photoperiod group, which includes several newly identified genes, such as several HvCO-like genes, belonging to different heading time pathways in barley.
Fusarium head blight (FHB) in wheat and other small grain cereals is a globally devastating disease caused by toxigenic Fusarium pathogens. Controlling FHB is a challenge because germplasm that is naturally resistant against these pathogens is inadequate. Current control measures rely on fungicides. Here, an antibody fusion comprised of the Fusarium spp.-specific recombinant antibody gene CWP2 derived from chicken, and the endochitinase gene Ech42 from the biocontrol fungus Trichoderma atroviride was introduced into the elite wheat cultivar Zhengmai9023 by particle bombardment. Expression of this fusion gene was regulated by the lemma/palea-specific promoter Lem2 derived from barley; its expression was confirmed as lemma/palea-specific in transgenic wheat. Single-floret inoculation of independent transgenic wheat lines of the T3 to T6 generations revealed significant resistance (type II) to fungal spreading, and natural infection assays in the field showed significant resistance (type I) to initial infection. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis revealed marked reduction of mycotoxins in the grains of the transgenic wheat lines. Progenies of crosses between the transgenic lines and the FHB-susceptible cultivar Huamai13 also showed significantly enhanced FHB resistance. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis revealed that the tissue-specific expression of the antibody fusion was induced by salicylic acid drenching and induced to a greater extent by F. graminearum infection. Histochemical analysis showed substantial restriction of mycelial growth in the lemma tissues of the transgenic plants. Thus, the combined tissue-specific and pathogen-inducible expression of this Fusarium-specific antibody fusion can effectively protect wheat against Fusarium pathogens and reduce mycotoxin content in grain.
Fusarium avenaceum is a fungus commonly isolated from soil and associated with a wide range of host plants. We present here three genome sequences of F. avenaceum, one isolated from barley in Finland and two from spring and winter wheat in Canada. The sizes of the three genomes range from 41.6-43.1 MB, with 13217-13445 predicted protein-coding genes. Whole-genome analysis showed that the three genomes are highly syntenic, and share>95% gene orthologs. Comparative analysis to other sequenced Fusaria shows that F. avenaceum has a very large potential for producing secondary metabolites, with between 75 and 80 key enzymes belonging to the polyketide, non-ribosomal peptide, terpene, alkaloid and indole-diterpene synthase classes. In addition to known metabolites from F. avenaceum, fuscofusarin and JM-47 were detected for the first time in this species. Many protein families are expanded in F. avenaceum, such as transcription factors, and proteins involved in redox reactions and signal transduction, suggesting evolutionary adaptation to a diverse and cosmopolitan ecology. We found that 20% of all predicted proteins were considered to be secreted, supporting a life in the extracellular space during interaction with plant hosts.
Wild barley is adapted to highly diverse environments throughout its geographical distribution range. Transcriptome sequencing of differentially adapted wild barley ecotypes from contrasting environments contributes to the identification of genes and genetic variation involved in abiotic stress tolerance and adaptation. Two differentially adapted wild barley ecotypes from desert (B1K2) and Mediterranean (B1K30) environments were analyzed for drought stress response under controlled conditions. The desert ecotype lost more water under both irrigation and drought, but exhibited higher relative water content (RWC) and better water use efficiency (WUE) than the coastal ecotype. We sequenced normalized cDNA libraries from drought-stressed leaves of both ecotypes with the 454 platform to identify drought-related transcripts. Over half million reads per ecotype were de novo assembled into 20,439 putative unique transcripts (PUTs) for B1K2, 21,494 for B1K30 and 28,720 for the joint assembly. Over 50% of PUTs of each ecotype were not shared with the other ecotype. Furthermore, 16% (3,245) of B1K2 and 17% (3,674) of B1K30 transcripts did not show orthologous sequence hits in the other wild barley ecotype and cultivated barley, and are candidates of ecotype-specific transcripts. Over 800 unique transcripts from each ecotype homologous to over 30 different stress-related genes were identified. We extracted 1,017 high quality SNPs that differentiated the two ecotypes. The genetic distance between the desert ecotype and cultivated barley was 1.9-fold higher than between the Mediterranean ecotype and cultivated barley. Moreover, the desert ecotype harbored a larger proportion of non-synonymous SNPs than the Mediterranean ecotype suggesting different demographic histories of these ecotypes. The results indicate a strong physiological and genomic differentiation between the desert and Mediterranean wild barley ecotypes and a closer relationship of the Mediterranean to cultivated barley. A significant number of novel transcripts specific to wild barley were identified. The higher SNP density and larger proportion of SNPs with functional effects in the desert ecotype suggest different demographic histories and effects of natural selection in Mediterranean and desert wild barley. The data are a valuable genomic resource for an improved genome annotation, transcriptome studies of drought adaptation and a source of new genetic markers for future barley improvement.
The swelling of the lodicule is responsible for floret opening in many grass species, allowing for pollen dispersal and cross-pollination. In barley, the closed floret habit (cleistogamy) is under the control of cly1, a gene that operates by inhibiting the development of the lodicule. In non-cleistogamous cultivars, cly1 mRNA is degraded by miR172-directed cleavage, allowing the lodicules to swell; however, in cultivars carrying the recessive allele cly1.b, a single-nucleotide substitution destroys the miR172 target site preventing mRNA cleavage. Barley cv. SV235 is cleistogamous; its cly1 coding sequence is identical to that of cly1.b, but its lodicules do develop, although insufficiently to produce a non-cleistogamous flower. In this cultivar, the downregulation of cly1 is unrelated to miR172-directed mRNA degradation, but rather is caused by an epiallele that represses transcription. Allelic relationships between known cly1 alleles were explored by the quantification of lodicule vascularization and an assessment of the response of the spike to the supply of exogenous auxin. The SV235 phenotype can be manipulated by a pre-anthesis application of 2,4-d, a feature that could be of interest in the context of hybrid barley grain production based on cleistogamy.
Putative nudix hydrolase (NUDX) genes, which encode amino acid sequences showing homology with those of Arabidopsis NUDXs and conserve nudix motif, were identified from barley. The 14 deduced barley NUDXs (HvNUDX1-14) were classified into established subfamilies, except for 8-oxo-deoxyguanosine 5'-triphosphate (8-oxo-dGTP) pyrophosphohydrolase and mRNA decapping enzyme subfamilies, and three substrate-unknown subfamilies. Drought and UV-C stresses, respectively, up-regulated 7 and 4 HvNUDX genes, but some homologs of Arabidopsis NUDXs showed different responses to abiotic stress. HvNUDX12 gene, belonging to diadenosine tetraphosphates (Ap₄A) pyrophosphohydrolase subfamily gene and up-regulated by UV-C, was expressed in Escherichia coli cells. The recombinant protein showed 8-oxo-dGTP, Ap₄A, and guanosine-3',5'-tetraphosphate (ppGpp) pyrophosphohydrolase activities, and the suppression of the lacZ amber mutation in a mutT-deficient E. coli cells caused by the incorporation of 8-oxo-GTP into mRNA was prevented to a significant degree. These results suggest that barley NUDXs have unique constitution and response of NUDX to abiotic stress.
Granule-bound starch synthase I (GBSS I) plays an important role in the synthesis of amylose and in the determination of starch properties in barley grains. Genomic DNAs for the Waxy gene encoding GBSS I protein were sequenced from 34 barley accessions or lines from Qinghai-Tibet plateau in China, to identify Waxy gene nucleotide variations and study the roles of polymorphic sites of the Waxy gene on expression levels of Waxy transcripts and GBSS I proteins and on resulting starch properties. A total of 116 DNA polymorphic sites were identified within the barley Waxy gene, which divided the studied accessions into 11 haplotypes. Among 33 nucleotide polymorphic sites in coding regions, 5 SNPs in three exons were found to play different roles on the expression level of the Waxy transcript and the GBSS I protein and on the amylose content and starch properties. One SNP G(3935)-to-T substitution in the 10th exon in the accession Z999 (HP II-2) caused a high expression level of the Waxy transcript and the GBSS I protein and the amylose free phenotype. The other SNP alteration was a C(2453)-to-T in the fifth exon in the accession Z1191 (HP I-5), which drastically reduced the expression level of the Waxy transcript and the GBSS I protein and, finally, produced the amylose free phenotype. Three SNPs in the seventh exon in the accession Z1337 (HP I-6) did not significantly change the level of Waxy transcript, the GBSS I protein, and starch properties, except obviously reducing the breakdown value of starch viscosity and extending the peak time. A total of 84 DNA polymorphic sites were found in the noncoding regions. A 403 bp deletion at 5'UTR in the accession Z1979 (HP I-3) had low transcript level, low GBSS I protein level, and low amylose content due to the deletion of cis-acting DNA regulatory elements. A 191 bp insertion and a 15 bp insertion in the first intron and second exons, respectively, may be closely related to a higher transcript level of the Waxy gene and significant differences in some starch properties of the Waxy I DNA group as compared to the Waxy II DNA group. This study indicates the specific variations of the Waxy gene have a great effect on amylose synthesis and starch properties of hull-less barley, which could be very useful to produce new barley with variable starch properties.
Reduced plant height and culm robustness are quantitative characteristics important for assuring cereal crop yield and quality under adverse weather conditions. A very limited number of short-culm mutant alleles were introduced into commercial crop cultivars during the Green Revolution. We identified phenotypic traits, including sturdy culm, specific for deficiencies in brassinosteroid biosynthesis and signaling in semidwarf mutants of barley (Hordeum vulgare). This set of characteristic traits was explored to perform a phenotypic screen of near-isogenic short-culm mutant lines from the brachytic, breviaristatum, dense spike, erectoides, semibrachytic, semidwarf, and slender dwarf mutant groups. In silico mapping of brassinosteroid-related genes in the barley genome in combination with sequencing of barley mutant lines assigned more than 20 historic mutants to three brassinosteroid-biosynthesis genes (BRASSINOSTEROID-6-OXIDASE, CONSTITUTIVE PHOTOMORPHOGENIC DWARF, and DIMINUTO) and one brassinosteroid-signaling gene (BRASSINOSTEROID-INSENSITIVE1 [HvBRI1]). Analyses of F2 and M2 populations, allelic crosses, and modeling of nonsynonymous amino acid exchanges in protein crystal structures gave a further understanding of the control of barley plant architecture and sturdiness by brassinosteroid-related genes. Alternatives to the widely used but highly temperature-sensitive uzu1.a allele of HvBRI1 represent potential genetic building blocks for breeding strategies with sturdy and climate-tolerant barley cultivars.
Leaf-to-leaf systemic immune signaling known as systemic acquired resistance is poorly understood in monocotyledonous plants. Here, we characterize systemic immunity in barley (Hordeum vulgare) triggered after primary leaf infection with either Pseudomonas syringae pathovar japonica (Psj) or Xanthomonas translucens pathovar cerealis (Xtc). Both pathogens induced resistance in systemic, uninfected leaves against a subsequent challenge infection with Xtc. In contrast to systemic acquired resistance in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), systemic immunity in barley was not associated with NONEXPRESSOR OF PATHOGENESIS-RELATED GENES1 or the local or systemic accumulation of salicylic acid. Instead, we documented a moderate local but not systemic induction of abscisic acid after infection of leaves with Psj. In contrast to salicylic acid or its functional analog benzothiadiazole, local applications of the jasmonic acid methyl ester or abscisic acid triggered systemic immunity to Xtc. RNA sequencing analysis of local and systemic transcript accumulation revealed unique gene expression changes in response to both Psj and Xtc and a clear separation of local from systemic responses. The systemic response appeared relatively modest, and quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction associated systemic immunity with the local and systemic induction of two WRKY and two ETHYLENE RESPONSIVE FACTOR (ERF)-like transcription factors. Systemic immunity against Xtc was further associated with transcriptional changes after a secondary/systemic Xtc challenge infection; these changes were dependent on the primary treatment. Taken together, bacteria-induced systemic immunity in barley may be mediated in part by WRKY and ERF-like transcription factors, possibly facilitating transcriptional reprogramming to potentiate immunity.
(1,3;1,4)-β-Glucan is an important component of the cell walls of barley grain as it affects processability during the production of alcoholic beverages and has significant human health benefits when consumed above recommended threshold levels. This leads to diametrically opposed quality requirements for different applications as low levels of (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan are required for brewing and distilling and high levels for positive impacts on human health. We quantified grain (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan content in a collection of 399 2-row Spring-type, and 204 2-row Winter-type elite barley cultivars originating mainly from north western Europe. We combined these data with genotypic information derived using a 9 K Illumina iSelect SNP platform and subsequently carried out a Genome Wide Association Scan (GWAS). Statistical analysis accounting for residual genetic structure within the germplasm collection allowed us to identify significant associations between molecular markers and the phenotypic data. By anchoring the regions that contain these associations to the barley genome assembly we catalogued genes underlying the associations. Based on gene annotations and transcript abundance data we identified candidate genes. We show that a region of the genome on chromosome 2 containing a cluster of CELLULOSE SYNTHASE-LIKE (Csl) genes, including CslF3, CslF4, CslF8, CslF10, CslF12 and CslH, as well as a region on chromosome 1H containing CslF9, are associated with the phenotype in this germplasm. We also observed that several regions identified by GWAS contain glycoside hydrolases that are possibly involved in (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan breakdown, together with other genes that might participate in (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan synthesis, re-modelling or regulation. This analysis provides new opportunities for understanding the genes related to the regulation of (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan content in cereal grains.
Data on cadmium accumulation in chloroplasts of terrestrial plants are scarce and contradictory. We introduced CdSO4 in hydroponic media to the final concentrations 80 and 250 μM and studied the accumulation of Cd in chloroplasts of Hordeum vulgare and Zea mays. Barley accumulated more Cd in the chloroplasts as compared to maize, whereas in the leaves cadmium accumulation was higher in maize. The cadmium content in the chloroplasts of two species varied from 49 to 171 ng Cd/mg chlorophyll, which corresponds to one Cd atom per 728-2,540 chlorophyll molecules. Therefore, Mg(2+) can be substituted by Cd(2+) in a negligible amount of antenna chlorophylls only. The percentage of chloroplastic cadmium can be estimated as 0.21-1.32 % of all the Cd in a leaf. Photochemistry (F v/F m, ΦPSII, qP) was not influenced by Cd. Non-photochemical quenching of chlorophyll-excited state (NPQ) was greatly reduced in barley but not in maize. The decrease in NPQ was due to its fast relaxing component; the slow relaxing component rose slightly. In chloroplasts, Cd did not affect mRNA levels, but content of some photosynthetic proteins was reduced: slightly in the leaves of barley and heavily in the leaves of maize. In all analyzed C3-species, the effect of Cd on the content of photosynthetic proteins was mild or absent. This is most likely the first evidence of severe reduction of photosynthetic proteins in leaves of a Cd-treated C4-plant.
Programmed cell death is essential part of development and cell homeostasis of any multicellular organism. We have analyzed programmed cell death in developing barley caryopsis at histological, biochemical and molecular level. Caspase-1, -3, -4, -6 and -8-like activities increased with aging of pericarp coinciding with abundance of TUNEL positive nuclei and expression of HvVPE4 and HvPhS2 genes in the tissue. TUNEL-positive nuclei were also detected in nucellus and nucellar projection as well as in embryo surrounding region during early caryopsis development. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of micro-dissected grain tissues revealed the expression of HvVPE2a, HvVPE2b, HvVPE2d, HvPhS2 and HvPhS3 genes exclusively in the nucellus/nucellar projection. The first increase in cascade of caspase-1, -3, -4, -6 and -8-like activities in the endosperm fraction may be related to programmed cell death in the nucellus and nucellar projection. The second increase of all above caspase-like activities including of caspase-9-like was detected in the maturating endosperm and coincided with expression of HvVPE1 and HvPhS1 genes as well as with degeneration of nuclei in starchy endosperm and transfer cells. The distribution of the TUNEL-positive nuclei, tissues-specific expression of genes encoding proteases with potential caspase activities and cascades of caspase-like activities suggest that each seed tissue follows individual pattern of development and disintegration, which however harmonizes with growth of the other tissues in order to achieve proper caryopsis development.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) grain development follows a series of defined morphological and physiological stages and depends on the supply of assimilates (mainly sucrose) from the mother plant. Here, spatio-temporal patterns of sugar distributions were investigated by mass spectrometric imaging, targeted metabolite analyses, and transcript profiling of microdissected grain tissues. Distinct spatio-temporal sugar balances were observed, which may relate to differentiation and grain filling processes. Notably, various types of oligofructans showed specific distribution patterns. Levan- and graminan-type oligofructans were synthesized in the cellularized endosperm prior to the commencement of starch biosynthesis, while during the storage phase, inulin-type oligofructans accumulated to a high concentration in and around the nascent endosperm cavity. In the shrunken endosperm mutant seg8, with a decreased sucrose flux toward the endosperm, fructan accumulation was impaired. The tight partitioning of oligofructan biosynthesis hints at distinct functions of the various fructan types in the young endosperm prior to starch accumulation and in the endosperm transfer cells that accomplish the assimilate supply toward the endosperm at the storage phase.
Saponarin (SA), a natural flavonoid, is known for its antioxidant and hepatoprotective activities. SA is the predominant compound (1142.7 ± 0.9 mg per 100 g) in barley sprouts, constituting 72% of the total polyphenol content. We investigated, for the first time, the effects of SA from barley sprouts on cellular anti-inflammatory responses. In lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages, SA suppressed the activation of NF-κB, as evidenced by the inhibition of NF-κB DNA binding, nuclear translocation, IκBα phosphorylation, and reporter gene expression, and it downregulated the expression of the pro-inflammatory mediator IL-6. Furthermore, SA reduced the transcription of NF-κB target molecules COX2 and FLIP inhibited the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases ERK and p38. These results suggest that SA isolated from barley sprouts exerts anti-inflammatory effects in LPS-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages via inhibition of NF-κB, ERK and p38 signaling. Thus, SA may be a promising natural anti-inflammatory agent.
The implementation of beneficial microorganisms for plant protection has a long history. Many rhizobia bacteria are able to influence the immune system of host plants by inducing resistance towards pathogenic microorganisms. In this report, we present a translational approach in which we demonstrate the resistance-inducing effect of Ensifer meliloti (Sinorhizobium meliloti) on crop plants that have a significant impact on the worldwide economy and on human nutrition. Ensifer meliloti is usually associated with root nodulation in legumes and nitrogen fixation. Here, we suggest that the ability of S. meliloti to induce resistance depends on the production of the quorum-sensing molecule, oxo-C14-HSL. The capacity to enhanced resistance provides a possibility to the use these beneficial bacteria in agriculture. Using the Arabidopsis-Salmonella model, we also demonstrate that the application of N-acyl-homoserine lactones-producing bacteria could be a successful strategy to prevent plant-originated infections with human pathogens.
Two closely related genes encoding the jasmonate-induced protein 60 (JIP60) were identified in the barley genome. The gene on chromosome arm 4HL encodes the previously identified protein encoded by the cDNA X66376.1. This JIP60 protein is characterized here and shown to consist of two domains: an NH2-terminal domain related to ribosome-inactivating proteins and a COOH-terminal domain, which displays similarity to eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E). JIP60 undergoes processing in vivo, as a result of which JIP60's COOH-terminal eIF4E domain is released and functions in recruiting a subset of cellular messengers for translation. This effect was observed for both MeJA-treated and naturally senescing plants. Because the JIP60 gene is in close proximity to several quantitative trait loci for both biotic and abiotic stress resistance, our results identify a unique target for future breeding programs.
For plant pathogenic fungi, such as powdery mildews, that survive only on a limited number of host plant species, it is a matter of vital importance that their spores sense that they landed on the right spot to initiate germination as quickly as possible. We investigated a barley (Hordeum vulgare) mutant with reduced epicuticular leaf waxes on which spores of adapted and nonadapted powdery mildew fungi showed reduced germination. The barley gene responsible for the mutant wax phenotype was cloned in a forward genetic screen and identified to encode a 3-KETOACYL-CoA SYNTHASE (HvKCS6), a protein participating in fatty acid elongation and required for synthesis of epicuticular waxes. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis revealed that the mutant has significantly fewer aliphatic wax constituents with a chain length above C-24. Complementation of the mutant restored wild-type wax and overcame germination penalty, indicating that wax constituents less present on the mutant are a crucial clue for spore germination. Investigation of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) transgenic plants with sense silencing of Arabidopsis REQUIRED FOR CUTICULAR WAX PRODUCTION1, the HvKCS6 ortholog, revealed the same germination phenotype against adapted and nonadapted powdery mildew fungi. Our findings hint to an evolutionary conserved mechanism for sensing of plant surfaces among distantly related powdery mildews that is based on KCS6-derived wax components. Perception of such a signal must have been evolved before the monocot-dicot split took place approximately 150 million years ago.
The domestication of cultivated barley has been used as a model system for studying the origins and early spread of agrarian culture. Our previous results indicated that the Tibetan Plateau and its vicinity is one of the centers of domestication of cultivated barley. Here we reveal multiple origins of domesticated barley using transcriptome profiling of cultivated and wild-barley genotypes. Approximately 48-Gb of clean transcript sequences in 12 Hordeum spontaneum and 9 Hordeum vulgare accessions were generated. We reported 12,530 de novo assembled transcripts in all of the 21 samples. Population structure analysis showed that Tibetan hulless barley (qingke) might have existed in the early stage of domestication. Based on the large number of unique genomic regions showing the similarity between cultivated and wild-barley groups, we propose that the genomic origin of modern cultivated barley is derived from wild-barley genotypes in the Fertile Crescent (mainly in chromosomes 1H, 2H, and 3H) and Tibet (mainly in chromosomes 4H, 5H, 6H, and 7H). This study indicates that the domestication of barley may have occurred over time in geographically distinct regions.
Previous reports indicate that salt stress reduces the root hydraulic conductance and the expression of plasmamembrane-type aquaporins (PIPs). As a molecular mechanism for this phenomenon, the present study found evidence that the osmotic component, but probably not an ion-specific component, decreases PIP transcripts. Eight of ten PIP transcripts were reduced to less than half by 360 mM mannitol treatment for 12 h in comparison with control samples. A large decrease of HvPIP2;1 protein was also recorded. This reduction of both transcripts and proteins of HvPIP2s should be physiologically effective for preventing or reducing dehydration at an initial phase of severe salt/osmotic stress. Root cell sap osmolality increased from 278 to 372 mOsm 24 h after 360 mM mannitol treatment. These steps can secure survival and growth recovery with water reabsorption in barley. Our data also suggest that H2O2 seems not to be the main cause of osmotic stress-induced transcriptional down-regulation within the concentrations (20-500 μM) and time periods (24 h) examined, although H2O2 was previously proposed to be involved in the mechanisms of salinity/osmotic tolerance.
Heat stress is one of the major abiotic factors that can induce severe plant damage, leading to a decrease in crop plant productivity. Despite barley being a cereal of great economic importance, few data are available concerning its thermotolerance mechanisms. In this work microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in heat stress response in barley were investigated. The level of selected barley mature miRNAs was examined by hybridization. Quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) was used to monitor the changes in the expression profiles of primary miRNA (pri-miRNA) precursors, as well as novel and conserved target genes during heat stress. The miRNA-mediated cleavage sites in the target transcripts were confirmed by degradome analysis and the 5' RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA ends) approach. Four barley miRNAs (miR160a, 166a, 167h, and 5175a) were found which are heat stress up-regulated at the level of both mature miRNAs and precursor pri-miRNAs. Moreover, the splicing of introns hosting miR160a and miR5175a is also heat induced. The results demonstrate transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of heat-responsive miRNAs in barley. The observed induction of miRNA expression is correlated with the down-regulation of the expression level of their experimentally identified new and conservative target genes.
The basic leucine zipper (bZIP) family is one of the largest and most diverse transcription factors in eukaryotes participating in many essential plant processes. We identified 141 bZIP proteins encoded by 89 genes from the Hordeum vulgare genome. HvbZIPs were classified into 11 groups based on their DNA-binding motif. Amino acid sequence alignment of the HvbZIPs basic-hinge regions revealed some highly conserved residues within each group. The leucine zipper heptads were analyzed predicting their dimerization properties. 34 conserved motifs were identified outside the bZIP domain. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that major diversification within the bZIP family predated the monocot/dicot divergence, although intra-species duplication and parallel evolution seems to be occurred afterward. Localization of HvbZIPs on the barley chromosomes revealed that different groups have been distributed on seven chromosomes of barley. Six types of intron pattern were detected within the basic-hinge regions. Most of the detected cis-elements in the promoter and UTR sequences were involved in seed development or abiotic stress response. Microarray data analysis revealed differential expression pattern of HvbZIPs in response to ABA treatment, drought, and cold stresses and during barley grain development and germination. This information would be helpful for functional characterization of bZIP transcription factors in barley.
The WRKY transcription factors belong to an evolutionarily conserved superprotein family predominantly present in the plant kingdom. WRKY proteins of barley are not yet fully annotated and most of them are not functionally characterized. We performed a genome-wide identification of WRKY members based on the recently accessible barley draft genome sequence and full-length cDNA datasets. As a result, 34 novel putative proteins have been identified which extend the existing list for barley WRKYs to 94. Phylogenetic analysis of the WRKY domains allowed ranking into three groups (I, II, III), with an expansion in group III in monocots. Two members of subgroup IIa, the wound and pathogen-inducible HvWRKY1 and HvWRKY2, are known as negative defense regulators. Here, we demonstrate that both transcription factors repress the activity of the powdery mildew-induced promoter of HvGER4c, a germin-like defense-related protein. The repression did not require the negative defense regulator MLO nor was it affected by the presence of the R protein MLA12. Moreover, the expression of the Arabidopsis ortholog AtWRKY40 in barley compromised basal resistance to powdery mildew, providing evidence for functional conservation of sequence-related WRKY proteins across monocots and dicots.
Brassinosteroid hormones regulate many aspects of plant growth and development. The membrane receptor BRI1 is a central player in the brassinosteroid signaling cascade. Semi-dwarf 'uzu' barley carries a mutation in a conserved domain of the kinase tail of BRI1 and this mutant allele is recognised for its positive contribution to both yield and lodging resistance. Here we show that uzu barley exhibits enhanced resistance to a range of pathogens. It was due to a combination of preformed, inducible and constitutive defence responses, as determined by a combination of transcriptomic and biochemical studies. Gene expression studies were used to determine that the uzu derivatives are attenuated in downstream brassinosteroid signaling. The reduction of BRI1 RNA levels via virus-induced gene silencing compromised uzu disease resistance. The pathogen resistance of uzu derivatives may be due to pleiotropic effects of BRI1 or the cascade effects of their repressed BR signaling.
As one of the phosphoglucan phosphatases, starch excess 4 (SEX4) encoded by SEX4 gene has recently been intensively studied because of its vital role in the degradation of leaf starch. In this study, we isolated and chromosomally mapped barley SEX4, characterized its gene and protein structure, predicted the cis-elements of its promoter, and analysed its expression based on real-time quantitative PCR and publically available microarray data. The full length of barely SEX4 (HvSEX4) was 4,598 bp and it was mapped on the long arm of chromosome 4H (4HL). This gene contained 14 exons and 13 introns in all but two of the species analysed, Arabidopsis (13 exons and 12 introns) and Oryza brachyantha (12 exons and 11 introns). An exon-intron junction composed of intron 4 to intron 7 and exon 5 to exon 8 was highly conserved among the analysed species. SEX4 is characterized with conserved functional domains (dual specificity phosphatase domain and carbohydrate-binding module 48) and varied chloroplast transit peptide and C-terminal. Expression analyses indicated that: (1) SEX4 was mainly expressed in anthers of barley, young leaf and anthers of rice, and leaf of Arabidopsis; (2) it exhibited a diurnal pattern in barley, rice and Arabidopsis; (3) significant difference in the expression of SEX4 was not detected for either barley or rice under any of the investigated stresses; and (4) it was significantly down-regulated at middle stage and up-regulated at late stage under cold treatment, down-regulated at early stage under heat treatment, and up-regulated at late stage under salt treatment in Arabidopsis. The strong relationships detected in the current study between SEX4 and glucan, water dikinases (GWD) or phosphoglucan, water dikinases (PWD) were discussed. Collectively, our results provide insights into genetic manipulation of SEX4, especially in monocotyledon and uncovering the possible roles of SEX4 in plant development.
The SNF1/AMPK pathway has a central role in response to nutrient stress in yeast and mammals. Previous studies on SNF1 function in phytopathogenic fungi mostly focused on the catalytic subunit Snf1 and its contribution to the derepression of cell wall degrading enzymes (CWDEs). However, the MoSnf1 in Magnaporthe oryzae was reported not to be involved in CWDEs regulation. The mechanism how MoSnf1 functions as a virulence determinant remains unclear. In this report, we demonstrate that MoSnf1 retains the ability to respond to nutrient-free environment via its participation in peroxisomal maintenance and lipid metabolism. Observation of GFP-tagged peroxisomal targeting signal-1 (PTS1) revealed that the peroxisomes of ΔMosnf1 were enlarged in mycelia and tended to be degraded before conidial germination, leading to the sharp decline of peroxisomal amount during appressorial development, which might impart the mutant great retard in lipid droplets mobilization and degradation. Consequently, ΔMosnf1 exhibited inability to maintain normal appressorial cell wall porosity and turgor pressure, which are key players in epidermal infection process. Exogenous glucose could partially restore the appressorial function and virulence of ΔMosnf1. Toward a further understanding of SNF1 pathway, the β-subunit MoSip2, γ-subunit MoSnf4, and two putative Snf1-activating kinases, MoSak1 and MoTos3, were additionally identified and characterized. Here we show the null mutants ΔMosip2 and ΔMosnf4 performed multiple disorders as ΔMosnf1 did, suggesting the complex integrity is essential for M. oryzae SNF1 kinase function. And the upstream kinases, MoSak1 and MoTos3, play unequal roles in SNF1 activation with a clear preference to MoSak1 over MoTos3. Meanwhile, the mutant lacking both of them exhibited a severe phenotype comparable to ΔMosnf1, uncovering a cooperative relationship between MoSak1 and MoTos3. Taken together, our data indicate that the SNF1 pathway is required for fungal development and facilitates pathogenicity by its contribution to peroxisomal maintenance and lipid metabolism in M. oryzae.
The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae is a model for studying fungal-plant interactions. Although it produces two types of spores (microconidia and macroconidia), previous infection studies have exclusively dealt with macroconidia. Germination of microconidia has not been reported, and their role in plant infection is not defined. Here we show that approximately 10% of microconidia germinate on plant surfaces, and that colonies derived from germinated microconidia are normal in growth and pathogenesis. In infection assays with rice and barley seedlings, microconidia fail to infect intact plants, but they can colonize and develop necrotic lesions on wounded leaves and stems. Microconidia also cause disease symptoms on inoculated spikelets in infection assays with barley and Brachypodium heads. Furthermore, microconidia are detected inside rice plants that developed blast lesions under laboratory or field conditions. Therefore, microconidia can germinate and are infectious, and may be an important factor in the rice blast cycle.
The transcription of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) GATA transcription factors GATA, NITRATE-INDUCIBLE, CARBON METABOLISM-INVOLVED (GNC) and GNC-LIKE (GNL)/CYTOKININ-RESPONSIVE GATA FACTOR1 is controlled by several growth regulatory signals including light and the phytohormones auxin, cytokinin, and gibberellin. To date, GNC and GNL have been attributed functions in the control of germination, greening, flowering time, floral development, senescence, and floral organ abscission. GNC and GNL belong to the 11-member family of B-class GATA transcription factors that are characterized to date solely by their high sequence conservation within the GATA DNA-binding domain. The degree of functional conservation among the various B-class GATA family members is not understood. Here, we identify and examine B-class GATAs from Arabidopsis, tomato (Solanum lycopersicon), Brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon), and barley (Hordeum vulgare). We find that B-class GATAs from these four species can be subdivided based on their short or long N termini and the presence of the 13-amino acid C-terminal leucine-leucine-methionine (LLM) domain with the conserved motif LLM. Through overexpression analyses and by complementation of a gnc gnl double mutant, we provide evidence that the length of the N terminus may not allow distinguishing between the different B-class GATAs at the functional level. In turn, we find that the presence and absence of the LLM domain in the overexpressors has differential effects on hypocotyl elongation, leaf shape, and petiole length, as well as on gene expression. Thus, our analyses identify the LLM domain as an evolutionarily conserved domain that determines B-class GATA factor identity and provides a further subclassification criterion for this transcription factor family.
Under specific stress treatments, the microspore can be induced in vitro to deviate from its gametophytic development and to reprogram towards embryogenesis, becoming a totipotent cell and forming haploid embryos. These can further regenerate homozygous plants for production of new isogenic lines, an important biotechnological tool for crop breeding. DNA methylation constitutes a prominent epigenetic modification of the chromatin fiber which regulates gene expression. Changes in DNA methylation accompany the reorganization of the nuclear architecture during plant cell differentiation and proliferation; however, the relationship between global DNA methylation and genome-wide expression patterns is still poorly understood. In this work, the dynamics of global DNA methylation levels and distribution patterns were analyzed during microspore reprogramming to embryogenesis and during pollen development in Hordeum vulgare. Quantification of global DNA methylation levels and 5-methyl-deoxycytidine (5mdC) immunofluorescence were conducted at specific stages of pollen development and after reprogramming to embryogenesis to analyze the epigenetic changes that accompany the change of developmental program and cell fate. The results showed low DNA methylation levels in microspores and a high increase along pollen development and maturation; an intense 5mdC signal was concentrated in the generative and sperm nuclei whereas the vegetative nucleus exhibited a weaker DNA methylation signal. After inductive stress treatment, low methylation levels and faint 5mdC signals were observed in nuclei of reprogrammed microspores and 2-4-cell proembryos. This data revealed a global DNA hypomethylation during the change of the developmental program and first embryogenic divisions. This is in contrast with the hypermethylation of generative and sperm cells of the male germline during pollen maturation, suggesting an epigenetic regulation after induction of microspore embryogenesis. At later embryogenesis stages, global DNA methylation progressively increased, accompanying embryo development and differentiation events like in zygotic embryos, corroborating that DNA methylation is critical for the regulation of gene expression in microspore embryogenesis.
Many proteins are present in the nucleus; some are involved with its structural and functional organization, some with gene expression, and some with cell division. The plant nuclear proteome has not been well explored. Its characterization requires extraction methods which minimize both the artifactual alteration of the proteins and the extent of contamination with non-nuclear proteins. The conventional multi-step fractionation procedure is both laborious and prone to contamination. Here, we describe a single-step method based on flow sorting. The method allows the separation of G1, S and G2 phase nuclei and minimizes the risk of contamination by non-nuclear proteins. Preliminary results obtained using G1 phase cell nuclei from barley root tips indicate that flow sorting coupled with a protein/peptide separation and mass spectrometry will permit a comprehensive characterization of the plant nuclear proteome.
Iron (Fe) is an essential nutrient in both plants and humans. Fe deficiency on calcareous soil with low Fe availability is a major agricultural problem. Nicotianamine (NA) is one of the Fe chelator in plants, which is involved in metal translocation into seeds, and serves as an antihypertensive substance in humans. In this study, soybean plants overexpressing the barley NA synthase 1 (HvNAS1) gene driven by the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter were produced using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The transgenic soybean showed no growth defect and grew normally. The NA content of transgenic soybean seeds was up to four-fold greater than that of non-transgenic (NT) soybean seeds. The level of HvNAS1 expression was positively correlated with the amount of NA, and a high concentration of NA was maintained in the seeds in succeeding generations. The Fe concentration was approximately two-fold greater in transgenic soybean seeds than in NT soybean seeds. Furthermore, the transgenic soybeans showed tolerance to low Fe availability in calcareous soil. Our results suggested that increasing the NA content in soybean seeds by the overexpression of HvNAS1 offers potential benefits for both human health and agricultural productivity.
Fusarium head blight caused by Fusarium graminearum is one of the most destructive diseases of wheat and barley. Deoxynivalenol (DON) produced by the pathogen is an important mycotoxins and virulence factor. Because oxidative burst is a common defense response and reactive oxygen species (ROS) induces DON production, in this study, we characterized functional relationships of three stress-related transcription factor genes FgAP1, FgATF1 and FgSKN7. Although all of them played a role in tolerance to oxidative stress, deletion of FgAP1 or FgATF1 had no significant effect on DON production. In contrast, Fgskn7 mutants were reduced in DON production and defective in H2 O2 -induced TRI gene expression. The Fgap1 mutant had no detectable phenotype other than increased sensitivity to H2 O2 and Fgap1 Fgatf1 and Fgap1 Fgskn7 mutants lacked additional or more severe phenotypes than the single mutants. The Fgatf1, but not Fgskn7, mutant was significantly reduced in virulence and delayed in ascospore release. The Fgskn7 Fgatf1 double mutant had more severe defects in growth, conidiation and virulence than the Fgatf1 or Fgskn7 mutant. Instead of producing four-celled ascospores, it formed eight small, single-celled ascospores in each ascus. Therefore, FgSKN7 and FgATF1 must have overlapping functions in intracellular ROS signalling for growth, development and pathogenesis in F. graminearum.
NAC proteins are plant transcription factors that are involved in tolerance to abiotic and biotic stresses, as well as in many developmental processes. Stress-responsive NAC1 (SNAC1) transcription factor is involved in drought tolerance in barley and rice, but has not been shown previously to have a role in disease resistance. Transgenic over-expression of HvSNAC1 in barley cv. Golden Promise reduced the severity of Ramularia leaf spot (RLS), caused by the fungus Ramularia collo-cygni, but had no effect on disease symptoms caused by Fusarium culmorum, Oculimacula yallundae (eyespot), Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (powdery mildew) or Magnaporthe oryzae (blast). The HvSNAC1 transcript was weakly induced in the RLS-susceptible cv. Golden Promise during the latter stages of R. collo-cygni symptom development when infected leaves were senescing. Potential mechanisms controlling HvSNAC1-mediated resistance to RLS were investigated. Gene expression analysis revealed no difference in the constitutive levels of antioxidant transcripts in either of the over-expression lines compared with cv. Golden Promise, nor was any difference in stomatal conductance or sensitivity to reactive oxygen species-induced cell death observed. Over-expression of HvSNAC1 delayed dark-induced leaf senescence. It is proposed that mechanisms controlled by HvSNAC1 that are involved in tolerance to abiotic stress and that inhibit senescence also confer resistance to R. collo-cygni and suppress RLS symptoms. This provides further evidence for an association between abiotic stress and senescence in barley and the development of RLS.
Our previous study found that the critical protein in SE (silica eluted) proteins is BTI-CMe, and assumed that SE-ve malt for brewing may improve the haze stability in beer. In this study, we investigated the difference in gene sequence and corresponding amino acid sequence of BTI-CMe between SE+ve and SE-ve types. The results showed that there were 7 amino acid differences between Yerong (SE-ve) and Franklin (SE+ve). Two types BTI-CMe were expressed in vitro and purified successfully. By adding the purified BTI-CMe into commercial beer, we found that both original turbidity and alcohol chill haze degree of beer were increased. BTI-CMe of SE-ve haplotype showed a lower level of haze formation in beer than SE+ve haplotype. Response surface methodology (RSM) was conducted to determine the relationship between BTI-CMe and tannic acid, and their effects on haze formation. It was found that (1) higher content of BTI-CMe and/or tannic acid in beer would give rise to higher turbidity; (2) there was a significant interaction between BTI-CMe and tannic acid; (3) haze activity disparity of BTI-CMe between two types was significantly and positively correlated with the tannic acid concentration.
Cadmium (Cd) is a severe detrimental environmental pollutant. To adapt to Cd-induced deleterious effects, plants have evolved sophisticated defence mechanisms. In this study, a genome-wide transcriptome analysis was performed to identify the mechanisms of Cd tolerance using two barley genotypes with distinct Cd tolerance. Microarray expression profiling revealed that 91 genes were up-regulated by Cd in Cd-tolerant genotype Weisuobuzhi and simultaneously down-regulated or non-changed in Cd-sensitive Dong17, and 692 genes showed no change in Weisuobuzhi but down-regulated in Dong17. Novel genes that may play significant roles in Cd tolerance were mainly via generating protectants such as catalase against reactive oxygen species, Cd compartmentalization (e.g. phytochelatin-synthase and vacuolar ATPase), and defence response and DNA replication (e.g. chitinase and histones). Other 156 up-regulated genes in both genotypes also included those encoding proteins related to stress and defence responses, and metabolism-related genes involved in detoxification pathways. Meanwhile, biochemical and physiological analysis of enzyme (ATPase and chitinase), phytohormone (ethylene), ion distribution and transport (Cd, Na(+), K(+), Ca(2+), ABC transporter) demonstrated that significantly larger Cd-induced increases of those components in Weisuobuzhi than those in Dong17. In addition, Cd-induced DNA damage was more pronounced in Dong17 than that in Weisuobuzhi. Our findings suggest that combining microarray, physiological and biochemical analysis has provided valuable insights towards a novel integrated molecular mechanism of Cd tolerance in barley. The higher expression genes in Cd tolerant genotype could be used for transgenic overexpression in sensitive genotypes of barley or other cereal crops for elevating tolerance to Cd stress.
In cereal grains, the maternal nucellar projection (NP) constitutes the link to the filial organs, forming a transfer path for assimilates and signals towards the endosperm. At transition to the storage phase, the NP of barley (Hordeum vulgare) undergoes dynamic and regulated differentiation forming a characteristic pattern of proliferating, elongating, and disintegrating cells. Immunolocalization revealed that abscisic acid (ABA) is abundant in early non-elongated but not in differentiated NP cells. In the maternally affected shrunken-endosperm mutant seg8, NP cells did not elongate and ABA remained abundant. The amounts of the bioactive forms of gibberellins (GAs) as well as their biosynthetic precursors were strongly and transiently increased in wild-type caryopses during the transition and early storage phases. In seg8, this increase was delayed and less pronounced together with deregulated gene expression of specific ABA and GA biosynthetic genes. We concluded that differentiation of the barley NP is driven by a distinct and specific shift from lower to higher GA:ABA ratios and that the spatial-temporal change of GA:ABA balances is required to form the differentiation gradient, which is a prerequisite for ordered transfer processes through the NP. Deregulated ABA:GA balances in seg8 impair the differentiation of the NP and potentially compromise transfer of signals and assimilates, resulting in aberrant endosperm growth. These results highlight the impact of hormonal balances on the proper release of assimilates from maternal to filial organs and provide new insights into maternal effects on endosperm differentiation and growth of barley grains.
Phytochromes play an important role in light signaling and photoperiodic control of flowering time in plants. Here we propose that the red/far-red light photoreceptor HvPHYTOCHROME C (HvPHYC), carrying a mutation in a conserved region of the GAF domain, is a candidate underlying the early maturity 5 locus in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). We fine mapped the gene using a mapping-by-sequencing approach applied on the whole-exome capture data from bulked early flowering segregants derived from a backcross of the Bowman(eam5) introgression line. We demonstrate that eam5 disrupts circadian expression of clock genes. Moreover, it interacts with the major photoperiod response gene Ppd-H1 to accelerate flowering under noninductive short days. Our results suggest that HvPHYC participates in transmission of light signals to the circadian clock and thus modulates light-dependent processes such as photoperiodic regulation of flowering.
The basidiomycete smut fungus Ustilago hordei was previously shown to comprise isolates that are avirulent on various barley host cultivars. Through genetic crosses we had revealed that a dominant avirulence locus UhAvr1 which triggers immunity in barley cultivar Hannchen harboring resistance gene Ruh1, resided within an 80-kb region. DNA sequence analysis of this genetically delimited region uncovered the presence of 7 candidate secreted effector proteins. Sequence comparison of their coding sequences among virulent and avirulent parental and field isolates could not distinguish UhAvr1 candidates. Systematic deletion and complementation analyses revealed that UhAvr1 is UHOR_10022 which codes for a small effector protein of 171 amino acids with a predicted 19 amino acid signal peptide. Virulence in the parental isolate is caused by the insertion of a fragment of 5.5 kb with similarity to a common U. hordei transposable element (TE), interrupting the promoter of UhAvr1 and thereby changing expression and hence recognition of UhAVR1p. This rearrangement is likely caused by activities of TEs and variation is seen among isolates. Using GFP-chimeric constructs we show that UhAvr1 is induced only in mated dikaryotic hyphae upon sensing and infecting barley coleoptile cells. When infecting Hannchen, UhAVR1p causes local callose deposition and the production of reactive oxygen species and necrosis indicative of the immune response. UhAvr1 does not contribute significantly to overall virulence. UhAvr1 is located in a cluster of ten effectors with several paralogs and over 50% of TEs. This cluster is syntenous with clusters in closely-related U. maydis and Sporisorium reilianum. In these corn-infecting species, these clusters harbor however more and further diversified homologous effector families but very few TEs. This increased variability may have resulted from past selection pressure by resistance genes since U. maydis is not known to trigger immunity in its corn host.
Drought is a major constraint to crop production, and microRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in plant drought tolerance. Analysis of miRNAs and other classes of small RNAs (sRNAs) in barley grown under water and drought conditions reveals that drought selectively regulates expression of miRNAs and other classes of sRNAs. Low-expressed miRNAs and all repeat-associated siRNAs (rasiRNAs) tended towards down-regulation, while tRNA-derived sRNAs (tsRNAs) had the tendency to be up-regulated, under drought. Antisense sRNAs (putative siRNAs) did not have such a tendency under drought. In drought-tolerant transgenic barley overexpressing DREB transcription factor, most of the low-expressed miRNAs were also down-regulated. In contrast, tsRNAs, rasiRNAs and other classes of sRNAs were not consistently expressed between the drought-treated and transgenic plants. The differential expression of miRNAs and siRNAs was further confirmed by Northern hybridization and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Targets of the drought-regulated miRNAs and siRNAs were predicted, identified by degradome libraries and confirmed by qRT-PCR. Their functions are diverse, but most are involved in transcriptional regulation. Our data provide insight into the expression profiles of miRNAs and other sRNAs, and their relationship under drought, thereby helping understand how miRNAs and sRNAs respond to drought stress in cereal crops.
Potassium (K) deficiency is one of the major factors affecting crop growth and productivity. Development of low-K tolerant crops is an effective approach to solve the nutritional deficiency in agricultural production. Tibetan annual wild barley is rich in genetic diversity and can grow normally under poor soils, including low-K supply. However, the molecular mechanism about low K tolerance is still poorly understood. In this study, Illumina RNA-Sequencing was performed using two Tibetan wild barley genotypes differing in low K tolerance (XZ153, tolerant and XZ141, sensitive), to determine the genotypic difference in transcriptome profiling. We identified a total of 692 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in two genotypes at 6 h and 48 h after low-K treatment, including transcription factors, transporters and kinases, oxidative stress and hormone signaling related genes. Meanwhile, 294 low-K tolerant associated DEGs were assigned to transporter and antioxidant activities, stimulus response, and other gene ontology (GO), which were mainly involved in starch and sucrose metabolism, lipid metabolism and ethylene biosynthesis. Finally, a hypothetical model of low-K tolerance mechanism in XZ153 was presented. It may be concluded that wild barley accession XZ153 has a higher capability of K absorption and use efficiency than XZ141 under low K stress. A rapid response to low K stress in XZ153 is attributed to its more K uptake and accumulation in plants, resulting in higher low K tolerance. The ethylene response pathway may account for the genotypic difference in low-K tolerance.
The low-recombining pericentromeric region of the barley genome contains roughly a quarter of the genes of the species, embedded in low-recombining DNA that is rich in repeats and repressive chromatin signatures. We have investigated the effects of pericentromeric region residency upon the expression, diversity and evolution of these genes. We observe no significant difference in average transcript level or developmental RNA specificity between the barley pericentromeric region and the rest of the genome. In contrast, all of the evolutionary parameters studied here show evidence of compromised gene evolution in this region. First, genes within the pericentromeric region of wild barley show reduced diversity and significantly weakened purifying selection compared with the rest of the genome. Second, gene duplicates (ohnolog pairs) derived from the cereal whole-genome duplication event ca. 60MYa have been completely eliminated from the barley pericentromeric region. Third, local gene duplication in the pericentromeric region is reduced by 29% relative to the rest of the genome. Thus, the pericentromeric region of barley is a permissive environment for gene expression but has restricted gene evolution in a sizeable fraction of barley's genes.
In addition to their normal developmental processes, plants have evolved complex genetic and epigenetic regulatory mechanisms to cope with various environmental stresses. It has been shown that both DNA methylation and histone modifications are involved in DNA damage response to various types of stresses. In this study, we focused on the involvement of two mutagenic agents, chemical (maleic acid hydrazide; MH) and physical (gamma rays), on the global epigenetic modifications of chromatin in barley. Our results indicate that both mutagens strongly influence the level of histone methylation and acetylation. Moreover, we found that gamma irradiation, in contrast to MH, has a more robust influence on the DNA methylation level. This is the first study that brings together mutagenic treatment along with its impact at the level of epigenetic modifications examined using the immunohistochemical method.
Flowering time in plants is a tightly regulated process. In barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), HvFT1, ortholog of FLOWERING LOCUS T, is the main integrator of the photoperiod and vernalization signals leading to the transition from vegetative to reproductive state of the plant. This gene presents sequence polymorphisms affecting flowering time in the first intron and in the promoter. Recently, copy number variation (CNV) has been described for this gene. An allele with more than one copy was linked to higher gene expression, earlier flowering, and an overriding effect of the vernalization mechanism. This study aims at (1) surveying the distribution of HvFT1 polymorphisms across barley germplasm and (2) assessing gene expression and phenotypic effects of HvFT1 alleles. We analyzed HvFT1 CNV in 109 winter, spring, and facultative barley lines. There was more than one copy of the gene (2-5) only in spring or facultative barleys without a functional vernalization VrnH2 allele. CNV was investigated in several regions inside and around HvFT1. Two models of the gene were found: one with the same number of promoters and transcribed regions, and another with one promoter and variable number of transcribed regions. This last model was found in Nordic barleys only. Analysis of HvFT1 expression showed that association between known polymorphisms at the HvFT1 locus and the expression of the gene was highly dependent on the genetic background. Under long day conditions the earliest flowering lines carried a sensitive PpdH1 allele. Among spring cultivars with different number of copies, no clear relation was found between CNV, gene expression and flowering time. This was confirmed in a set of doubled haploid lines of a population segregating for HvFT1 CNV. Earlier flowering in the presence of several copies of HvFT1 was only seen in cultivar Tammi, which carries one promoter, suggesting a relation of gene structure with its regulation. HvCEN also affected to a large extent flowering time.
The ∼150kDa ChlH subunit of magnesium chelatase from Oryza sativa, Hordeum vulgare and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii have been heterologously expressed in Escherichiacoli. The active soluble protein is found as both a multimeric and a monomeric form. The multimeric ChlH appears to be oxidatively damaged but monomer production is favoured in growth conditions that are known to cause an oxidative stress response in E.coli. Inducing an oxidative stress response may be of general utility to improve the quality of proteins expressed in E. coli. The similar responses of ChlH's from the three different species suggest that oligomerization of oxidatively damaged ChlH may have a functional role in the chloroplast, possibly as a signal of oxidative stress or damage.
The barley protease BAJ93208 belongs to the subtilase family of serine proteases. We have expressed BAJ93208 in the cytoplasm of the Escherichiacoli strain SHuffle C3030 using a rhamnose-inducible promoter. The expression construct included a (His)6-tag at the N-terminus and a strep-tag at the C-terminus. Western blot analysis revealed that the protein was processed at the N- and C-terminus. To exclude that this processing was due to contaminating E. coli proteases, a mutated BAJ93208 protease was constructed. This inactive mutant was not processed, demonstrating that the processing was an autocatalytic process. To define the exact cleavage sites mass spectrometry was used which detected four differently processed versions of the protease. At the N-terminus, the self-processing removed the internal inhibitor and an additional 19 amino acids. At the C-terminus there was a cleavage site after Ala(765) which also removed the strep-tag. This explained the inability to detect the purified (His)6-BAJ93208-strep protease with an anti-strep-tag antibody. Finally, an additional alanine was removed either at the N-terminus (Ala(119)) or at the C-terminus (Ala(764)).
The expression of LcWRKY5 was induced significantly by salinity, mannitol and cutting treatments. Arabidopsis- overexpressing LcWRKY5 greatly increased dehydration tolerance by regulating the expression of multiple stress-responsive genes. Based on the data of sheepgrass 454 high-throughout sequencing and expression analysis results, a drought-induced gene LcWRKY5 was isolated and cloned, and the biological role of the gene has not been reported until now. Bioinformatics analysis showed that LcWRKY5 contains one conserved WD domain and belongs to the group II WRKY protein family. LcWRKY5 shows high sequence identity with predicted or putative protein products of Hordeum vulgare, Aegilops tauschii, Triticum aestivum, Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa, but it has low homology with WRKYs from dicotyledonous plants. Several drought-inducibility, fungal elicitor, MeJA-responsiveness, endosperm, light, anoxic specific inducibility, and circadian control elements were found in the promoter region of LcWRKY5. Tissue-specific expression patterns showed that LcWRKY5 is expressed in roots and leaves, without expression in other tissues. The expression of LcWRKY5 was induced significantly under salinity and mannitol stresses but was not notably changed under cold and Abscisic acid stress. The LcWRKY5 protein exhibits transcription activation activity in the yeast one-hybrid system. Overexpressing LcWRKY5 exhibited increased rates of cotyledon greening and plant survival in transgenic Arabidopsis compared with wild-type plants under drought stress, and the expression levels of DREB2A and RD29A in transgenic plants were enhanced under drought stress. These results indicated that LcWRKY5 may play an important role in drought-response networks through regulation of the DREB2A pathway. LcWRKY5 can be a candidate gene for engineering drought tolerance in other crops.
Scald caused by Rhynchosporium commune is an important foliar disease of barley. Insertion mutagenesis of R. commune generated a nonpathogenic fungal mutant which carries the inserted plasmid in the upstream region of a gene named PFP1. The characteristic feature of the gene product is an Epc-N domain. This motif is also found in homologous proteins shown to be components of histone acetyltransferase (HAT) complexes of fungi and animals. Therefore, PFP1 is suggested to be the subunit of a HAT complex in R. commune with an essential role in the epigenetic control of fungal pathogenicity. Targeted PFP1 disruption also yielded nonpathogenic mutants which showed wild-type-like growth ex planta, except for the occurrence of hyphal swellings. Complementation of the deletion mutants with the wild-type gene reestablished pathogenicity and suppressed the hyphal swellings. However, despite wild-type-level PFP1 expression, the complementation mutants did not reach wild-type-level virulence. This indicates that the function of the protein complex and, thus, fungal virulence are influenced by a position-affected long-range control of PFP1 expression.
The circadian clock is an important timing system that controls physiological responses to abiotic stresses in plants. However, there is little information on the effects of the clock on stress adaptation in important crops, like barley. In addition, we do not know how osmotic stress perceived at the roots affect the shoot circadian clock. Barley genotypes, carrying natural variation at the photoperiod response and clock genes Ppd-H1 and HvELF3, were grown under control and osmotic stress conditions to record changes in the diurnal expression of clock and stress-response genes and in physiological traits. Variation at HvELF3 affected the expression phase and shape of clock and stress-response genes, while variation at Ppd-H1 only affected the expression levels of stress genes. Osmotic stress up-regulated expression of clock and stress-response genes and advanced their expression peaks. Clock genes controlled the expression of stress-response genes, but had minor effects on gas exchange and leaf transpiration. This study demonstrated that osmotic stress at the barley root altered clock gene expression in the shoot and acted as a spatial input signal into the clock. Unlike in Arabidopsis, barley primary assimilation was less controlled by the clock and more responsive to environmental perturbations, such as osmotic stress.
In cereals, ADP-glucose transporter protein plays an important role in starch biosynthesis. It acts as a main gate for the transport of ADP-glucose, the main precursor for starch biosynthesis during grain filling, from the cytosol into the amyloplasts of endospermic cells. In this study, we have shed some light on the molecular and biochemical characteristics of barley plastidial ADP-glucose transporter, HvBT1. Phylogenetic analysis of several BT1 homologues revealed that BT1 homologues are divided into two distinct groups. The HvBT1 is assigned to the group that represents BT homologues from monocotyledonous species. Some members of this group mainly work as nucleotide sugar transporters. Southern blot analysis showed the presence of a single copy of HvBT1 in barley genome. Gene expression analysis indicated that HvBT1 is mainly expressed in endospermic cells during grain filling; however, low level of its expression was detected in the autotrophic tissues, suggesting the possible role of HvBT1 in autotrophic tissues. The cellular and subcellular localization of HvBT1 provided additional evidence that HvBT1 targets the amyloplast membrane of the endospermic cells. Biochemical characterization of HvBT1 using E. coli system revealed that HvBT1 is able to transport ADP-glucose into E. coli cells with an affinity of 614.5 µM and in counter exchange of ADP with an affinity of 334.7 µM. The study also showed that AMP is another possible exchange substrate. The effect of non-labeled ADP-glucose and ADP on the uptake rate of [α-32P] ADP-glucose indicated the substrate specificity of HvBT1 for ADP-glucose and ADP.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, non-coding RNAs playing essential roles in plant growth, development, and stress responses. Sequencing of small RNAs is a starting point for understanding their number, diversity, expression and possible roles in plants. In this study, we conducted a genome-wide survey of wheat miRNAs from 11 tissues, characterizing a total of 323 novel miRNAs belonging to 276 families in wheat. A miRNA conservation analysis identified 191 wheat-specific miRNAs, 2 monocot-specific miRNAs, and 30 wheat-specific variants from 9 highly conserved miRNA families. To understand possible roles of wheat miRNAs, we determined 524 potential targets for 124 miRNA families through degradome sequencing, and cleavage of a subset of them was validated via 5' RACE. Based on the genome-wide identification and characterization of miRNAs and their associated target genes, we further identified 64 miRNAs preferentially expressing in developing or germinating grains, which could play important roles in grain development. We discovered 323 wheat novel miRNAs and 524 target genes for 124 miRNA families in a genome-wide level, and our data will serve as a foundation for future research into the functional roles of miRNAs in wheat.
Hulless barley is attracting increasing attention due to its unique nutritional value and potential health benefits. However, the molecular biology of the barley grain development and nutrient storage are not well understood. Furthermore, the genetic potential of hulless barley has not been fully tapped for breeding. In the present study, we investigated the transcriptome features during hulless barley grain development. Using Illumina paired-end RNA-Sequencing, we generated two data sets of the developing grain transcriptomes from two hulless barley landraces. A total of 13.1 and 12.9 million paired-end reads with lengths of 90 bp were generated from the two varieties and were assembled to 48,863 and 45,788 unigenes, respectively. A combined dataset of 46,485 All-Unigenes were generated from two transcriptomes with an average length of 542 bp, and 36,278 among were annotated with gene descriptions, conserved protein domains or gene ontology terms. Furthermore, sequences and expression levels of genes related to the biosynthesis of storage reserve compounds (starch, protein, and β-glucan) were analyzed, and their temporal and spatial patterns were deduced from the transcriptome data of cultivated barley Morex. We established a sequences and functional annotation integrated database and examined the expression profiles of the developing grains of Tibetan hulless barley. The characterization of genes encoding storage proteins and enzymes of starch synthesis and (1-3;1-4)-β-D-glucan synthesis provided an overview of changes in gene expression associated with grain nutrition and health properties. Furthermore, the characterization of these genes provides a gene reservoir, which helps in quality improvement of hulless barley.
The Russian wheat aphid (RWA), Diuraphis noxia Kurdjumov, is a major global pest of wheat and barley production that causes enormous economic damage. Few studies have been conducted to explore and decipher the molecular basis of RWA strategies to evade plant defense mechanisms. Gene expression studies of RWA in response to wheat genotypes carrying different RWA resistance genes have been initiated in our group; however, a secure and accurate understanding of RWA gene expression is dependent on identification of suitable reference genes. This study analyzed expression profiles of five potential reference genes selected and sequenced during RNA sequencing experiments. The expression of genes coding for actin and ribosomal protein L27 was comparatively less variable in RWA fed on different wheat hosts. Results of geNorm, NormFinder, and BestKeeper expression analyses support the use of actin and ribosomal protein L27 in RT-qPCR studies of RWA gene expression in studies involving RWA-wheat interactions.
The barley (Hordeum vulgare) gene HvALMT1 encodes an anion channel in guard cells and in certain root tissues indicating that it may perform multiple roles. The protein localizes to the plasma membrane and facilitates malate efflux from cells when constitutively expressed in barley plants and Xenopus oocytes. This study investigated the function of HvALMT1 further by identifying its tissue-specific expression and by generating and characterizing RNAi lines with reduced HvALMT1 expression. We show that transgenic plants with 18-30% of wild-type HvALMT1 expression had impaired guard cell function. They maintained higher stomatal conductance in low light intensity and lost water more rapidly from excised leaves than the null segregant control plants. Tissue-specific expression of HvALMT1 was investigated in developing grain and during germination using transgenic barley lines expressing the green fluorescent protein (GFP) with the HvALMT1 promoter. We found that HvALMT1 is expressed in the nucellar projection, the aleurone layer and the scutellum of developing barley grain. Malate release measured from isolated aleurone layers prepared from imbibed grain was significantly lower in the RNAi barley plants compared with control plants. These data provide molecular and physiological evidence that HvALMT1 functions in guard cells, in grain development and during germination. We propose that HvALMT1 releases malate and perhaps other anions from guard cells to promote stomatal closure. The likely roles of HvALMT1 during seed development and grain germination are also discussed.
We report a series of microarray-based leaf and crown transcriptome comparisons involving three barley cultivars (cvs. Luxor, Igri and Atlas 68) which express differing degrees of frost tolerance. The transcripts were obtained following the exposure of seedlings to low (above and below zero) temperatures, aiming to identify those genes and signalling/metabolic pathways which are associated with frost tolerance. Both the leaves and the crowns responded to low temperature by the up-regulation of a suite of abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive genes, most of which have already been recognized as components of the plant low temperature response. The inter-cultivar comparison indicated that genes involved in maintaining the leaf's capacity to synthesize protein and to retain chloroplast activity were important for the expression of frost tolerance. In the crown, the repression of genes associated with nucleosome assembly and transposon regulation were the most relevant transcriptional changes associated with frost tolerance, highlighting the role of gene repression in the cold acclimation response.
Tocochromanols are recognized for nutritional content, plant stress response, and seed longevity. Here we present a systems biological approach to characterize and develop predictive assays for genes affecting tocochromanol variation in barley. Major QTL, detected in three regions of a SNP linkage map, affected multiple tocochromanol forms. Candidate genes were identified through barley/rice orthology and sequenced in genotypes with disparate tocochromanol profiles. Gene-specific markers, designed based on observed polymorphism, mapped to the originating QTL, increasing R2 values at the respective loci. Polymorphism within promoter regions corresponded to motifs known to influence gene expression. Quantitative PCR analysis revealed a trend of increased expression in tissues grown at cold temperatures. These results demonstrate utility of a novel method for rapid gene identification and characterization, and provide a resource for efficient development of barley lines with improved tocochromanol profiles.
Calpains are intracellular, cysteine proteases found in plants, animals and fungi functioning as signal transduction components in different cellular pathways including sporulation and alkaline adaptation in fungi. Calpains-related MoCAPN1 (MGG_14872), MoCAPN3 (MGG_15810) and MoCAPN4 (MGG_04818) genes from Magnaporthe oryzae genome which are 2604, 3513 and 771-bp in length and encoding identical proteins of 867, 1170 and 256 amino acids were functionally characterized for different phenotypes through gene disruption method. All the mutants except those for MoCAPN1 showed normal phenotypes. In pathogenicity test, the mutants did not lead to any visible changes in phenotypes causing similar blast lesions on blast susceptible rice and barley leaves as those of the Guy-11 strain suggesting no major role in pathogenicity. Germ tubes formation, appressorium formation, mycelium radial growth and mating with 2539 strain were indistinguishable among the mutants and Guy-11 strains. Cell wall integrity (congo red) test, stress response under chemical pressure (ZnSO4, CuSO4 and CdCl2), osmotic and oxidative (NaCl and H2O2) stress response, growth response on glucose and nitrogen deficient media resulted in similar results in the mutants and Guy-11 strains. However, mutants for ΔMoCAPN1 gene produced reduced (0.57±0.15B and 0.54±0.05B) conidia compared to that (1.69±0.13A) of the Guy-11 strain showing its involvement in conidiation.
Changes in physiological parameters (relative water content (RWC), biomass, water use efficiency (WUE), net photosynthetic yield (PN) and quantum yield of PSII (Fv/Fm)), in proline and sugar content, and expression profile of genes reported to be associated with the barley response to water deficit, including LEA genes, NHX1, Hsdr4, BLT101 and genes encoding transcription factors (HvDREB1, HvABF1, HvABI5 and HvZIP1), were analyzed in seedlings of nine barley genotypes subjected to a progressive increase in water deficit. Seedlings of all genotypes wilted when the soil water content (SWC) declined from 65% (control conditions) to 10% (severe drought conditions), but recovered turgor within a few hours of re-watering. However, when severe drought conditions were prolonged for a week, large differences in survival characteristics were observed between genotypes after re-watering. Multivariate analysis of the changes in physiological and molecular characteristics allowed several different homogenous groups within the genotypes to be distinguished, depending on stress intensity. Furthermore, integration between the stress-response traits was found and was shown to vary depending on the genotype and the stress level. Based on analysis of physiological traits and survival characteristics, two barley genotypes with high adaptability to the stress conditions (cv. Saida and breeding line Cam/B1), and two with low adaptability (cv. Express and breeding line Harmal), were identified. In addition, only changes in expression of the genes HvZIP1, encoding a b-ZIP-type transcription factor, and Hsdr4, encoding a protein of unknown function, were shown to be linked with adaptability of barley to water deficit. In summary, physiological and molecular data revealed large, stress-level-dependent differences between the barley cultivars and breeding lines tested in their response to water deficit.
EARLY FLOWERING3 (ELF3) is a circadian clock gene that contributes to photoperiod-dependent flowering in plants, with loss-of-function mutants in barley (Hordeum vulgare), legumes, and Arabidopsis thaliana flowering early under noninductive short-day (SD) photoperiods. The barley elf3 mutant displays increased expression of FLOWERING LOCUS T1 (FT1); however, it remains unclear whether this is the only factor responsible for the early flowering phenotype. We show that the early flowering and vegetative growth phenotypes of the barley elf3 mutant are strongly dependent on gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis. Expression of the central GA biosynthesis gene, GA20oxidase2, and production of the bioactive GA, GA
Salinity tolerance is a physiologically multi-faceted trait attributed to multiple mechanisms. Three barley (Hordeum vulgare) varieties contrasting in their salinity tolerance were used to assess the relative contribution of ionic, osmotic and oxidative stress components towards overall salinity stress tolerance in this species, both at the whole-plant and cellular levels. In addition, transcriptional changes in the gene expression profile were studied for key genes mediating plant ionic and oxidative homeostasis (NHX; RBOH; SOD; AHA and GORK), to compare a contribution of transcriptional and post-translational factors towards the specific components of salinity tolerance. Our major findings are two-fold. First, plant tissue tolerance was a dominating component that has determined the overall plant responses to salinity, with root K(+) retention ability and reduced sensitivity to stress-induced hydroxyl radical production being the main contributing tolerance mechanisms. Second, it was not possible to infer which cultivars were salinity tolerant based solely on expression profiling of candidate genes at one specific time point. For the genes studied and the time point selected that transcriptional changes in the expression of these specific genes had a small role for barley's adaptive responses to salinity. For better tissue tolerance, sodium sequestration, K(+) retention and resistance to oxidative stress all appeared to be crucial. Because these traits are highly interrelated, it is suggested that a major progress in crop breeding for salinity tolerance can be achieved only if these complementary traits are targeted at the same time. This study also highlights the essentiality of post translational modifications in plant adaptive responses to salinity.
Seed dormancy is an important agronomic trait: low levels can cause premature germination, while too much can inhibit uniform germination. As an approach to controlling the seed dormancy level in crops, we used Triticeae DOG1-like genes as transgenes. DOG1 is an Arabidopsis gene that underlies natural variation in seed dormancy. We previously showed that although their sequence similarities to DOG1 were low, some cereal DOG1-like genes enhanced seed dormancy in Arabidopsis. Here, we introduced two DOG1-like genes, TaDOG1L4 from wheat and HvDOG1L1 from barley, individually into the wheat cultivar Fielder. Their overexpression under the control of a maize ubiquitin promoter enhanced the seed dormancy level while leaving other traits unchanged. TaDOG1L4 was more effective than HvDOG1L1, which accords with the previously revealed difference in the effectiveness of these two genes in Arabidopsis seed dormancy. Knockdown of endogenous TaDOG1L4 in Fielder using double-strand RNA interference decreased the seed dormancy level by several tens of percent. This result indicates that some degree of seed dormancy inherent in wheat is imparted by DOG1-like genes.
The effect of malate on the steady-state activity of the pea (Pisum sativum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) leaf pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) has been studied in isolated mitochondria. The addition of malate was found to be stimulatory for the mitochondrial PDC, however there was no stimulation of chloroplast PDC. The stimulation was saturated below 1mM malate and was apparently related to а partially activated complex, which activity increased in the presence of malate by about twofold. Malate also reversed the reduction of PDC activity in the presence of glycine. Based on the obtained kinetic data, we suggest that the effect of malate is rather not a direct activation of PDC but involves the establishment of NAD-malate dehydrogenase equilibrium, decreasing concentration of NADH and relieving its inhibitory effect of PDC.
This study addresses the question of the interference between iron (Fe) nutrition and cadmium (Cd) toxicity at the level of growth performance, phytosiderophores (PS) release, micronutrient accumulation and expression of genes involved in Fe homeostasis in barley seedlings, a plant with strategy II-based response to Fe shortage. Cd exposure induced responses similar to those of genuine Fe deficiency also in Fe-sufficient plants. Most genes involved in PS biosynthesis and secretion (HvNAS3, HvNAS4, HvNAS6, HvNAS7, HvNAAT-A, HvDMAS1 and HvTOM1) induced by Fe deprivation were also significantly upregulated in the presence of Cd under Fe sufficient conditions. Accordingly, the enhanced expression of these genes in roots under Cd exposure was accompanied by an increase of PS release. However, induced expression of HvIRO2 and the downregulation of HvIDEF1 and HvIRT1, after Cd exposure, suggested the presence of a pathway that induces HvIRO2-mediated PS biosynthesis under Cd stress, which probably is not simply caused by Fe deficiency. The downregulation of HvIRT1 and HvNramp5 may represent a protective mechanism at transcriptional level against further Cd uptake by these transporters. These results likely indicate that Cd itself may be able to activate Fe acquisition mechanism in an Fe-independent manner.
SGT1 is an evolutionarily conserved eukaryotic protein involved in many important cellular processes. In plants, SGT1 is involved in resistance to disease. In a low ionic strength environment, the SGT1 protein tends to form dimers. The protein consists of three structurally independent domains (the tetratricopeptide repeats domain (TPR), the CHORD- and SGT1-containing domain (CS), and the SGT1-specific domain (SGS)), and two less conserved variable regions (VR1 and VR2). In the present study, we provide the low-resolution structure of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) SGT1 protein in solution and its dimer/monomer equilibrium using small-angle scattering of synchrotron radiation, ab-initio modeling and circular dichroism spectroscopy. The multivariate curve resolution least-square method (MCR-ALS) was applied to separate the scattering data of the monomeric and dimeric species from a complex mixture. The models of the barley SGT1 dimer and monomer were formulated using rigid body modeling with ab-initio structure prediction. Both oligomeric forms of barley SGT1 have elongated shapes with unfolded inter-domain regions. Circular dichroism spectroscopy confirmed that the barley SGT1 protein had a modular architecture, with an α-helical TPR domain, a β-sheet sandwich CS domain, and a disordered SGS domain separated by VR1 and VR2 regions. Using molecular docking and ab-initio protein structure prediction, a model of dimerization of the TPR domains was proposed.
The transcriptomes of senescing flag leaves collected from barley field plots with standard or high nitrogen supply were compared to identify genes specifically associated with nitrogen remobilization during leaf senescence under agronomically relevant conditions. In flag leaves collected in field plots with high nitrogen supply, the decline in chlorophyll content was delayed. By comparing changes in gene expression for the two nitrogen levels, it was possible to discriminate genes related to nitrogen remobilization during senescence and genes involved in other processes associated with the late development of leaves under field conditions. Predominant genes that were more strongly upregulated during senescence of flag leaves from plants with standard nitrogen supply included genes encoding the transcription factor HvNAC026, serine type protease SCPL51, and the autophagy factors APG7 and ATG18F. Elevated expression of these genes in senescing leaves from plants with standard nitrogen supply indicates important roles of the corresponding proteins in nitrogen remobilization. In comparison, the genes upregulated in both flag leaf samples might have roles in general senescence processes associated with late leaf development. Among these genes were the transcription factor genes HvNAC001, HvNAC005, HvNAC013, HvWRKY12 and MYB, genes encoding the papain-like cysteine peptidases HvPAP14 and HvPAP20, as well as a subtilase gene.
Malate and citrate efflux from root apices is a mechanism of Al(3+) tolerance in many plant species. Citrate efflux is facilitated by members of the MATE (multidrug and toxic compound exudation) family localized to the plasma membrane of root cells. Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is among the most Al(3+)-sensitive cereal species but the small genotypic variation in tolerance that is present is correlated with citrate efflux via a MATE transporter named HvAACT1. This study used a biotechnological approach to increase the Al(3+) tolerance of barley by transforming it with two MATE genes that encode citrate transporters: SbMATE is the major Al(3+)-tolerance gene from sorghum whereas FRD3 is involved with Fe nutrition in Arabidopsis. Independent transgenic and null T3 lines were generated for both transgenes. Lines expressing SbMATE showed Al(3+)-activated citrate efflux from root apices and greater tolerance to Al(3+) toxicity than nulls in hydroponic and short-term soil trials. Transgenic lines expressing FRD3 exhibited similar phenotypes except citrate release from roots occurred constitutively. The Al(3+) tolerance of these lines was compared with previously generated transgenic barley lines overexpressing the endogenous HvAACT1 gene and the TaALMT1 gene from wheat. Barley lines expressing TaALMT1 showed significantly greater Al(3+) tolerance than all lines expressing MATE genes. This study highlights the relative efficacy of different organic anion transport proteins for increasing the Al(3+) tolerance of an important crop species.
Controlling pollen development is of major commercial importance in generating hybrid crops and selective breeding, but characterized genes for male sterility in crops are rare, with no current examples in barley. However, translation of knowledge from model species is now providing opportunities to understand and manipulate such processes in economically important crops. We have used information from regulatory networks in Arabidopsis to identify and functionally characterize a barley PHD transcription factor MALE STERTILITY1 (MS1), which expresses in the anther tapetum and plays a critical role during pollen development. Comparative analysis of Arabidopsis, rice and Brachypodium genomes was used to identify conserved regions in MS1 for primer design to amplify the barley MS1 gene; RACE-PCR was subsequently used to generate the full-length sequence. This gene shows anther-specific tapetal expression, between late tetrad stage and early microspore release. HvMS1 silencing and overexpression in barley resulted in male sterility. Additionally, HvMS1 cDNA, controlled by the native Arabidopsis MS1 promoter, successfully complemented the homozygous ms1 Arabidopsis mutant. These results confirm the conservation of MS1 function in higher plants and in particular in temperate cereals. This has provided the first example of a characterized male sterility gene in barley, which presents a valuable tool for the future control of male fertility in barley for hybrid development.
The caleosin genes encode proteins with a single conserved EF hand calcium-binding domain and comprise small gene families found in a wide range of plant species. Some members of the gene family have been shown to be upregulated by environmental stresses including low water availability and high salinity. Caleosin 3 from wheat has been shown to interact with the α-subunit of the heterotrimeric G proteins, and to act as a GTPase activating protein (GAP). This study characterizes the size and diversity of the gene family in wheat and related species and characterizes the differential tissue-specific expression of members of the gene family. A total of 34 gene family members that belong to eleven paralogous groups of caleosins were identified in the hexaploid bread wheat, T. aestivum. Each group was represented by three homeologous copies of the gene located on corresponding homeologous chromosomes, except the caleosin 10, which has four gene copies. Ten gene family members were identified in diploid barley, Hordeum vulgare, and in rye, Secale cereale, seven in Brachypodium distachyon, and six in rice, Oryza sativa. The analysis of gene expression was assayed in triticale and rye by RNA-Seq analysis of 454 sequence sets and members of the gene family were found to have diverse patterns of gene expression in the different tissues that were sampled in rye and in triticale, the hybrid hexaploid species derived from wheat and rye. Expression of the gene family in wheat and barley was also previously determined by microarray analysis, and changes in expression during development and in response to environmental stresses are presented. The caleosin gene family had a greater degree of expansion in the Triticeae than in the other monocot species, Brachypodium and rice. The prior implication of one member of the gene family in the stress response and heterotrimeric G protein signaling, points to the potential importance of the caleosin gene family. The complexity of the family and differential expression in various tissues and under conditions of abiotic stress suggests the possibility that caleosin family members may play diverse roles in signaling and development that warrants further investigation.
It is well known that abscisic acid (ABA) plays a central role in the regulation of seed dormancy and that transcriptional regulation of genes encoding ABA biosynthetic and degradation enzymes is responsible for determining ABA content. However, little is known about the upstream signaling pathways impinging on transcription to ultimately regulate ABA content or how environmental signals (e.g., light and cold) might direct such expression in grains. Our previous studies indicated that light is a key environmental signal inhibiting germination in dormant grains of barley (Hordeum vulgare), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and Brachypodium distachyon and that this effect attenuates as after-ripening progresses further. We found that the blue component of the light spectrum inhibits completion of germination in barley by inducing the expression of the ABA biosynthetic gene 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase and dampening expression of ABA 8'-hydroxylase, thus increasing ABA content in the grain. We have now created barley transgenic lines downregulating the genes encoding the blue light receptors CRYTOCHROME (CRY1) and CRY2. Our results demonstrate that CRY1 is the key receptor perceiving and transducing the blue light signal in dormant grains.
Identification and characterization of proteins involved in salt tolerance are imperative for revealing its genetic mechanisms. In this study, ionic and proteomic responses of a Tibetan wild barley XZ16 and a well-known salt-tolerant barley cv. CM72 were analyzed using inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometer, 2DE, and MALDI-TOF/TOF MS techniques to determine salt-induced differences in element and protein profiles between the two genotypes. In total, 41 differentially expressed proteins were identified in roots and leaves, and they were associated with ion homeostasis, cell redox homeostasis, metabolic process, and photosynthesis. Under salinity stress, calmodulin, Na/K transporters, and H(+) -ATPases were involved in establishment of ion homeostasis for barley plants. Moreover, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase activase and oxygen-evolving enhancer proteins were significantly upregulated under salinity stress, indicating the great impact of salinity on photosynthesis. In comparison with CM72, XZ16 had greater relative dry weight and lower Na accumulation in the shoots under salinity stress. A higher expression of HvNHX1 in the roots, and some specific proteins responsible for ion homeostasis and cell redox homeostasis, was also found in XZ16 exposed to salt stress. The current results showed that Tibetan wild barley XZ16 and cultivated barley cultivar CM72 differ in the mechanism of salt tolerance.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare), which tolerates iron (Fe) deficiency, secretes a large amount of phytosiderophores from its roots. However, how barley is able to allocate resources for phytosiderophore synthesis when the carbon assimilation rate is reduced by Fe deficiency is unknown. We previously suggested that the acceleration of senescence in older leaves triggered by Fe deficiency may allow the recycling of assimilates to contribute to phytosiderophore synthesis. In this work, we show the relationship between an increase in the C/N ratio in older leaves and Fe-deficiency tolerance among three barley cultivars. The increase in the C/N ratio suggests an enhanced capacity for the retranslocation of carbohydrates or amino acids from older leaves to the sink organs. An increase in the sucrose concentration in Fe-deficient barley also suggests active redistribution of assimilates. This metabolic modulation may be supported by accelerated senescence of older leaves, as Fe deficiency increased the expression of senescence-associated genes. The older leaves of Fe-deficient barley maintained CO2 assimilation under Fe deficiency. Barley that had been Fe-deficient for 3 days preferentially allocated newly assimilated (13) C to the roots and nutrient solution. Interestingly, the oldest leaf of Fe-deficient barley released more (13) C into the nutrient solution than the second oldest leaf. Thus, the balance between anabolism and catabolism in older leaves, supported by highly regulated senescence, plays a key role in metabolic adaptation in Fe-deficient barley.
Abscisic acid (ABA) is a central player in plant responses to drought stress. How variable levels of ABA under short-term versus long-term drought stress impact assimilation and growth in crops is unclear. We addressed this through comparative analysis, using two elite breeding lines of barley (Hordeum vulgare) that show senescence or stay-green phenotype under terminal drought stress and by making use of transgenic barley lines that express Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (AtNCED6) coding sequence or an RNA interference (RNAi) sequence of ABA 8'-hydroxylase under the control of a drought-inducible barley promoter. The high levels of ABA and its catabolites in the senescing breeding line under long-term stress were detrimental for assimilate productivity, whereas these levels were not perturbed in the stay-green type that performed better. In transgenic barley, drought-inducible AtNCED expression afforded temporal control in ABA levels such that the ABA levels rose sooner than in wild-type plants but also subsided, unlike as in the wild type , to near-basal levels upon prolonged stress treatment due to down-regulation of endogenous HvNCED genes. Suppressing of ABA catabolism with the RNA interference approach of ABA 8'-hydroxylase caused ABA flux during the entire period of stress. These transgenic plants performed better than the wild type under stress to maintain a favorable instantaneous water use efficiency and better assimilation. Gene expression analysis, protein structural modeling, and protein-protein interaction analyses of the members of the PYRABACTIN RESISTANCE1/PYRABACTIN RESISTANCE1-LIKE/REGULATORY COMPONENT OF ABA RECEPTORS, TYPE 2C PROTEIN PHOSPHATASE Sucrose non-fermenting1-related protein kinase2, and ABA-INSENSITIVE5/ABA-responsive element binding factor family identified specific members that could potentially impact ABA metabolism and stress adaptation in barley.
An important component of barley cell walls, particularly in the endosperm, is (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan, a polymer that has proven health benefits in humans and that influences processability in the brewing industry. Genes of the cellulose synthase-like (Csl) F gene family have been shown to be involved in (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan synthesis but many aspects of the biosynthesis are still unclear. Examination of the sequence assembly of the barley genome has revealed the presence of an additional three HvCslF genes (HvCslF11, HvCslF12 and HvCslF13) which may be involved in (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan synthesis. Transcripts of HvCslF11 and HvCslF12 mRNA were found in roots and young leaves, respectively. Transient expression of these genes in Nicotiana benthamiana resulted in phenotypic changes in the infiltrated leaves, although no authentic (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan was detected. Comparisons of the CslF gene families in cereals revealed evidence of intergenic recombination, gene duplications and translocation events. This significant divergence within the gene family might be related to multiple functions of (1,3;1,4)-β-glucans in the Poaceae. Emerging genomic and global expression data for barley and other cereals is a powerful resource for characterising the evolution and dynamics of complete gene families. In the case of the CslF gene family, the results will contribute to a more thorough understanding of carbohydrate metabolism in grass cell walls.
The rapid increase in heat shock proteins upon exposure to damaging stresses and during plant development related to desiccation events reveal their dual importance in plant development and stress tolerance. Genome-wide sequence survey identified 20 non-redundant small heat shock proteins (sHsp) and 22 heat shock factor (Hsf) genes in barley. While all three major classes (A, B, C) of Hsfs are localized in nucleus, the 20 sHsp gene family members are localized in different cell organelles like cytoplasm, mitochondria, plastid and peroxisomes. Hsf and sHsp members are differentially regulated during drought and at different seed developmental stages suggesting the importance of chaperone role under drought as well as seed development. In silico cis-regulatory motif analysis of Hsf promoters showed an enrichment with abscisic acid responsive cis-elements (ABRE), implying regulatory role of ABA in mediating transcriptional response of HvsHsf genes. Gene regulatory network analysis identified HvHsfB2c as potential central regulator of the seed-specific expression of several HvsHsps including 17.5CI sHsp. These results indicate that HvHsfB2c is co-expressed in the central hub of small Hsps and therefore it may be regulating the expression of several HvsHsp subclasses HvHsp16.88-CI, HvHsp17.5-CI and HvHsp17.7-CI. The in vivo relevance of binding specificity of HvHsfB2C transcription factor to HSE-element present in the promoter of HvSHP17.5-CI under heat stress exposure is confirmed by gel shift and LUC-reporter assays. Further, we isolated 477 bp cDNA from barley encoding a 17.5 sHsp polypeptide, which was predominantly upregulated under drought stress treatments and also preferentially expressed in developing seeds. Recombinant HvsHsp17.5-CI protein was expressed in E. coli and purified to homogeneity, which displayed in vitro chaperone activity. The predicted structural model of HvsHsp-17.5-CI protein suggests that the α-crystallin domain is evolutionarily highly conserved.
In plants, source-sink communication plays a pivotal role in crop productivity, yet the underlying regulatory mechanisms are largely unknown. The SnRK1A protein kinase and transcription factor MYBS1 regulate the sugar starvation signaling pathway during seedling growth in cereals. Here, we identified plant-specific SnRK1A-interacting negative regulators (SKINs). SKINs antagonize the function of SnRK1A, and the highly conserved GKSKSF domain is essential for SKINs to function as repressors. Overexpression of SKINs inhibits the expression of MYBS1 and hydrolases essential for mobilization of nutrient reserves in the endosperm, leading to inhibition of seedling growth. The expression of SKINs is highly inducible by drought and moderately by various stresses, which is likely related to the abscisic acid (ABA)-mediated repression of SnRK1A under stress. Overexpression of SKINs enhances ABA sensitivity for inhibition of seedling growth. ABA promotes the interaction between SnRK1A and SKINs and shifts the localization of SKINs from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, where it binds SnRK1A and prevents SnRK1A and MYBS1 from entering the nucleus. Our findings demonstrate that SnRK1A plays a key role regulating source-sink communication during seedling growth. Under abiotic stress, SKINs antagonize the function of SnRK1A, which is likely a key factor restricting seedling vigor.
The senescence process of plants is important for the completion of their life cycle, particularly for crop plants, it is essential for efficient nutrient remobilization during seed filling. It is a highly regulated process, and in order to address the regulatory aspect, the role of genes in the NAC transcription factor family during senescence of barley flag leaves was studied. Several members of the NAC transcription factor gene family were up-regulated during senescence in a microarray experiment, together with a large range of senescence-associated genes, reflecting the coordinated activation of degradation processes in senescing barley leaf tissues. This picture was confirmed in a detailed quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR) experiment, which also showed distinct gene expression patterns for different members of the NAC gene family, suggesting a group of ~15 out of the 47 studied NAC genes to be important for signalling processes and for the execution of degradation processes during leaf senescence in barley. Seven models for DNA-binding motifs for NAC transcription factors were designed based on published motifs, and available promoter sequences of barley genes were screened for the motifs. Genes up-regulated during senescence showed a significant over-representation of the motifs, suggesting regulation by the NAC transcription factors. Furthermore, co-regulation studies showed that genes possessing the motifs in the promoter in general were highly co-expressed with members of the NAC gene family. In conclusion, a list of up to 15 NAC genes from barley that are strong candidates for being regulatory factors of importance for senescence and biotic stress-related traits affecting the productivity of cereal crop plants has been generated. Furthermore, a list of 71 senescence-associated genes that are potential target genes for these NAC transcription factors is presented.
In many cereal crops, meiotic crossovers predominantly occur toward the ends of chromosomes and 30 to 50% of genes rarely recombine. This limits the exploitation of genetic variation by plant breeding. Previous reports demonstrate that chiasma frequency can be manipulated in plants by depletion of the synaptonemal complex protein ZIPPER1 (ZYP1) but conflict as to the direction of change, with fewer chiasmata reported in Arabidopsis thaliana and more crossovers reported for rice (Oryza sativa). Here, we use RNA interference (RNAi) to reduce the amount of ZYP1 in barley (Hordeum vulgare) to only 2 to 17% of normal zygotene levels. In the ZYP1(RNAi) lines, fewer than half of the chromosome pairs formed bivalents at metaphase and many univalents were observed, leading to chromosome nondisjunction and semisterility. The number of chiasmata per cell was reduced from 14 in control plants to three to four in the ZYP1-depleted lines, although the localization of residual chiasmata was not affected. DNA double-strand break formation appeared normal, but the recombination pathway was defective at later stages. A meiotic time course revealed a 12-h delay in prophase I progression to the first labeled tetrads. Barley ZYP1 appears to function similarly to ZIP1/ZYP1 in yeast and Arabidopsis, with an opposite effect on crossover number to ZEP1 in rice, another member of the Poaceae.
Germination is a biological process important to plant development and agricultural production. Barley and rice diverged 50 million years ago, but share a similar germination process. To gain insight into the conservation of their underlying gene regulatory programs, we compared transcriptomes of barley and rice at start, middle and end points of germination, and revealed that germination regulated barley and rice genes (BRs) diverged significantly in expression patterns and/or protein sequences. However, BRs with higher protein sequence similarity tended to have more conserved expression patterns. We identified and characterized 316 sets of conserved barley and rice genes (cBRs) with high similarity in both protein sequences and expression patterns, and provided a comprehensive depiction of the transcriptional regulatory program conserved in barley and rice germination at gene, pathway and systems levels. The cBRs encoded proteins involved in a variety of biological pathways and had a wide range of expression patterns. The cBRs encoding key regulatory components in signaling pathways often had diverse expression patterns. Early germination up-regulation of cell wall metabolic pathway and peroxidases, and late germination up-regulation of chromatin structure and remodeling pathways were conserved in both barley and rice. Protein sequence and expression pattern of a gene change quickly if it is not subjected to a functional constraint. Preserving germination-regulated expression patterns and protein sequences of those cBRs for 50 million years strongly suggests that the cBRs are functionally significant and equivalent in germination, and contribute to the ancient characteristics of germination preserved in barley and rice. The functional significance and equivalence of the cBR genes predicted here can serve as a foundation to further characterize their biological functions and facilitate bridging rice and barley germination research with greater confidence.
KNOTTED1-LIKE HOMEOBOX (KNOX) genes are important regulators of meristem function, and a complex network of transcription factors ensures tight control of their expression. Here, we show that members of the GROWTH-REGULATING FACTOR (GRF) family act as players in this network. A yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) one-hybrid screen with the upstream sequence of the KNOX gene Oskn2 from rice (Oryza sativa) resulted in isolation of OsGRF3 and OsGRF10. Specific binding to a region in the untranslated leader sequence of Oskn2 was confirmed by yeast and in vitro binding assays. ProOskn2:β-glucuronidase reporter expression was down-regulated by OsGRF3 and OsGRF10 in vivo, suggesting that these proteins function as transcriptional repressors. Likewise, we found that the GRF protein BGRF1 from barley (Hordeum vulgare) could act as a repressor on an intron sequence in the KNOX gene Hooded/Barley Knotted3 (Bkn3) and that AtGRF4, AtGRF5, and AtGRF6 from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) could repress KNOTTED-LIKE FROM ARABIDOPSIS THALIANA2 (KNAT2) promoter activity. OsGRF overexpression phenotypes in rice were consistent with aberrant meristematic activity, showing reduced formation of tillers and internodes and extensive adventitious root/shoot formation on nodes. These effects were associated with down-regulation of endogenous Oskn2 expression by OsGRF3. Conversely, RNA interference silencing of OsGRF3, OsGRF4, and OsGRF5 resulted in dwarfism, delayed growth and inflorescence formation, and up-regulation of Oskn2. These data demonstrate conserved interactions between the GRF and KNOX families of transcription factors in both monocot and dicot plants.
Pochonia chlamydosporia is a worldwide-distributed soil fungus with a great capacity to infect and destroy the eggs and kill females of plant-parasitic nematodes. Additionally, it has the ability to colonize endophytically roots of economically-important crop plants, thereby promoting their growth and eliciting plant defenses. This multitrophic behavior makes P. chlamydosporia a potentially useful tool for sustainable agriculture approaches. We sequenced and assembled ∼41 Mb of P. chlamydosporia genomic DNA and predicted 12,122 gene models, of which many were homologous to genes of fungal pathogens of invertebrates and fungal plant pathogens. Predicted genes (65%) were functionally annotated according to Gene Ontology, and 16% of them found to share homology with genes in the Pathogen Host Interactions (PHI) database. The genome of this fungus is highly enriched in genes encoding hydrolytic enzymes, such as proteases, glycoside hydrolases and carbohydrate esterases. We used RNA-Seq technology in order to identify the genes expressed during endophytic behavior of P. chlamydosporia when colonizing barley roots. Functional annotation of these genes showed that hydrolytic enzymes and transporters are expressed during endophytism. This structural and functional analysis of the P. chlamydosporia genome provides a starting point for understanding the molecular mechanisms involved in the multitrophic lifestyle of this fungus. The genomic information provided here should also prove useful for enhancing the capabilities of this fungus as a biocontrol agent of plant-parasitic nematodes and as a plant growth-promoting organism.
Despite numerous studies on shrunken endosperm mutants caused by either maternal tissues (seg) or kernel per se (sex) in barley, the molecular mechanism for all of the eight seg mutants (seg1-seg8) and some sex mutants is yet to be uncovered. In this study, we determined the amylose content, characterized granule-binding proteins, analyzed the expression of key genes involved in starch synthesis, and examined starch granule structure of both normal (Bowman and Morex) and shrunken endosperm (seg1, seg3, seg4a, seg4b, seg5, seg6, seg7, and sex1) barley accessions. Our results showed that amylose contents of shrunken endosperm mutants ranged from 8.9% (seg4a) to 25.8% (seg1). SDS-PAGE analysis revealed that 87 kDa proteins corresponding to the starch branching enzyme II (SBEII) and starch synthase II (SSII) were not present in seg1, seg3, seg6, and seg7 mutants. Real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) analysis indicated that waxy expression levels of seg1, seg3, seg6, and seg7 mutants decreased in varying degrees to lower levels until 27 days after anthesis (DAA) after reaching the peak at 15-21 DAA, which differed from the pattern of normal barley accessions. Further characterization of waxy alleles revealed 7 non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the coding sequences and 16 SNPs and 8 indels in the promoter sequences of the mutants. Results from starch granule by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) indicated that, in comparison with normal barley accessions, seg4a, seg4b, and sex1 had fewer starch granules per grain; seg3 and seg6 had less small B-type granules; some large A-type granules in seg7 had a hollow surface. These results improve our understanding about effects of seg and sex mutants on starch biosynthesis and granule structure during endosperm development and provide information for identification of key genes responsible for these shrunken endosperm mutants.
The Sobemovirus genome consists of polycistronic single-stranded positive-sense RNA. The first ORF encodes P1, a suppressor of RNA silencing required for virus movement. The coat protein (CP) is expressed from the 3' proximal ORF3 via subgenomic RNA. In addition to its structural role, the CP of some sobemoviruses has been reported to be required for systemic movement and to interact with P1. The aim of this study was to analyse the role of Cocksfoot mottle virus (CfMV) CP in the suppression of RNA silencing and virus movement. Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression method was used for testing CfMV CP capacity to suppress RNA silencing. CP substitution and deletion mutants were generated to examine the role of this protein in CfMV infection, using three host plants (oat, barley and wheat). The viral movement was characterised with CfMV expressing EGFP fused to the C-terminus of CP. In the current study we show that CfMV CP is an additional RNA silencing suppressor. Interestingly, we observed that all CP mutant viruses were able to infect the three tested host plants systemically, although usually with reduced accumulation. CfMV expressing EGFP was detected in epidermal and mesophyll cells of inoculated leaves. Although EGFP fluorescence was not detected in upper leaves, some plants displayed CfMV symptoms. Analysis of the upper leaves revealed that the viruses had lost the EGFP sequence and sometimes also most of the CP gene. The present study demonstrates that CfMV CP suppresses RNA silencing but, surprisingly, is dispensable for systemic movement. Thus, CfMV does not move as virion in the tested host plants. The composition of the movement RNP complex remains to be elucidated.
Head blast caused by the fungal plant pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae is an upcoming threat for wheat and barley cultivation. We investigated the nonhost response of barley to an isolate of the Magnaporthe species complex which is pathogenic on Pennisetum spp. as a potential source for novel resistance traits. Array experiments identified a barley gene encoding a putative cytochrome P450 monooxygenase whose transcripts accumulate to a higher concentration in the nonhost as compared to the host interaction. The gene clusters within the CYP96 clade of the P450 plant gene family and is designated as CYP96B22. Expression of CYP96B22 was triggered during the ectoparasitic growth of the pathogen on the outside of the leaf. Usage of a fungicidal treatment and a Magnaporthe mutant confirmed that penetration was not necessary for this early activation of CYP96B22. Transcriptional silencing of CYP96B22 using Barley stripe mosaic virus led to a decrease in penetration resistance of barley plants to Magnaporthe host and nonhost isolates. This phenotype seems to be specific for the barley-Magnaporthe interaction, since penetration of the adapted barley powdery mildew fungus was not altered in similarly treated plants. Taken together our results suggest a cross-talk between barley and Magnaporthe isolates across the plant surface. Since members of the plant CYP96 family are known to be involved in synthesis of epicuticular waxes, these substances or their derivatives might act as signal components. We propose a functional overlap of CYP96B22 in the execution of penetration resistance during basal and nonhost resistance of barley against different Magnaporthe species.
In comparison to dicot-infecting bacteria, only limited numbers of genome sequences are available for monocot-infecting and in particular cereal-infecting bacteria. Herein we report the characterisation and genome sequence of Xanthomonas translucens isolate DAR61454 pathogenic on wheat and barley. Based on phylogenetic analysis of the ATP synthase beta subunit (atpD) gene, DAR61454 is most closely related to other X. translucens strains and the sugarcane- and banana- infecting Xanthomonas strains, but shares a type III secretion system (T3SS) with X. translucens pv. graminis and more distantly related xanthomonads. Assays with an adenylate cyclase reporter protein demonstrate that DAR61454's T3SS is functional in delivering proteins to wheat cells. X. translucens DAR61454 also encodes two type VI secretion systems with one most closely related to those found in some strains of the rice infecting strain X. oryzae pv. oryzae but not other xanthomonads. Comparative analysis of 18 different Xanthomonas isolates revealed 84 proteins unique to cereal (i.e. rice) infecting isolates and the wheat/barley infecting DAR61454. Genes encoding 60 of these proteins are found in gene clusters in the X. translucens DAR61454 genome, suggesting cereal-specific pathogenicity islands. However, none of the cereal pathogen specific proteins were homologous to known Xanthomonas spp. effectors. Comparative analysis outside of the bacterial kingdom revealed a nucleoside triphosphate pyrophosphohydrolase encoding gene in DAR61454 also present in other bacteria as well as a number of pathogenic Fusarium species, suggesting that this gene may have been transmitted horizontally from bacteria to the Fusarium lineage of pathogenic fungi. This example further highlights the importance of horizontal gene acquisition from bacteria in the evolution of fungi.
CO2 permeability of plasma membrane intrinsic protein 2 (PIP2) aquaporins of Hordeum vulgare L. was investigated. Five PIP2 members were heterologously expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. CO2 permeability was determined by decrease of cytosolic pH in CO2-enriched buffer using a hydrogen ion-selective microelectrode. HvPIP2;1, HvPIP2;2, HvPIP2;3 and HvPIP2;5 facilitated CO2 transport across the oocyte cell membrane. However, HvPIP2;4 that is highly homologous to HvPIP2;3 did not. The isoleucine residue at position 254 of HvPIP2;3 was conserved in PIP2 aquaporins of barley, except HvPIP2;4, which possesses methionine instead. CO2 permeability was lost by the substitution of the Ile254 of HvPIP2;3 by methionine, while water permeability was not affected. These results suggest that PIP2 aquaporins are permeable to CO2. and the conserved isoleucine at the end of the E-loop is crucial for CO2 selectivity.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is one of the world's most important cereal crops. Although its large and complex genome has held back barley genomics for quite a while, the whole genome sequence was released in 2012 by the International Barley Genome Sequencing Consortium (IBSC). Moreover, more than 30,000 barley full-length cDNAs (FLcDNAs) are now available in the public domain. Here we present the Barley Gene Expression Database (bex-db: http://barleyflc.dna.affrc.go.jp/bexdb/index.html) as a repository of transcriptome data including the sequences and the expression profiles of barley genes resulting from microarray analysis. In addition to FLcDNA sequences, bex-db also contains partial sequences of more than 309,000 novel expressed sequence tags (ESTs). Users can browse the data via keyword, sequence homology and expression profile search options. A genome browser was also developed to display the chromosomal locations of barley FLcDNAs and wheat (Triticum aestivum) transcripts as well as Aegilops tauschii gene models on the IBSC genome sequence for future comparative analysis of orthologs among Triticeae species. The bex-db should provide a useful resource for further genomics studies and development of genome-based tools to enhance the progress of the genetic improvement of cereal crops.
MORC1 and MORC2, two of the seven members of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) Compromised Recognition of Turnip Crinkle Virus1 subfamily of microrchidia Gyrase, Heat Shock Protein90, Histidine Kinase, MutL (GHKL) ATPases, were previously shown to be required in multiple layers of plant immunity. Here, we show that the barley (Hordeum vulgare) MORCs also are involved in disease resistance. Genome-wide analyses identified five MORCs that are 37% to 48% identical on the protein level to AtMORC1. Unexpectedly, and in clear contrast to Arabidopsis, RNA interference-mediated knockdown of MORC in barley resulted in enhanced basal resistance and effector-triggered, powdery mildew resistance locus A12-mediated resistance against the biotrophic powdery mildew fungus (Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei), while MORC overexpression decreased resistance. Moreover, barley knockdown mutants also showed higher resistance to Fusarium graminearum. Barley MORCs, like their Arabidopsis homologs, contain the highly conserved GHKL ATPase and S5 domains, which identify them as members of the MORC superfamily. Like AtMORC1, barley MORC1 (HvMORC1) binds DNA and has Mn2+-dependent endonuclease activities, suggesting that the contrasting function of MORC1 homologs in barley versus Arabidopsis is not due to differences in their enzyme activities. In contrast to AtMORCs, which are involved in silencing of transposons that are largely restricted to pericentromeric regions, barley MORC mutants did not show a loss-of-transposon silencing regardless of their genomic location. Reciprocal overexpression of MORC1 homologs in barley and Arabidopsis showed that AtMORC1 and HvMORC1 could not restore each other's function. Together, these results suggest that MORC proteins function as modulators of immunity, which can act negatively (barley) or positively (Arabidopsis) dependent on the species.
Timing of flowering is key to the reproductive success of many plants. In temperate climates, flowering is often coordinated with seasonal environmental cues such as temperature and photoperiod. Vernalization is an example of temperature influencing the timing of flowering and is defined as the process by which a prolonged exposure to the cold of winter results in competence to flower during the following spring. In cereals, three genes (VERNALIZATION1 [VRN1], VRN2, and FLOWERING LOCUS T [FT]) have been identified that influence the vernalization requirement and are thought to form a regulatory loop to control the timing of flowering. Here, we characterize natural variation in the vernalization and photoperiod responses in Brachypodium distachyon, a small temperate grass related to wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). Brachypodium spp. accessions display a wide range of flowering responses to different photoperiods and lengths of vernalization. In addition, we characterize the expression patterns of the closest homologs of VRN1, VRN2 (VRN2-like [BdVRN2L]), and FT before, during, and after cold exposure as well as in different photoperiods. FT messenger RNA levels generally correlate with flowering time among accessions grown in different photoperiods, and FT is more highly expressed in vernalized plants after cold. VRN1 is induced by cold in leaves and remains high following vernalization. Plants overexpressing VRN1 or FT flower rapidly in the absence of vernalization, and plants overexpressing VRN1 exhibit lower BdVRN2L levels. Interestingly, BdVRN2L is induced during cold, which is a difference in the behavior of BdVRN2L compared with wheat VRN2 during cold.
miR399 and miR827 are both involved in conserved phosphorus (P) deficiency signalling pathways. miR399 targets the PHO2 gene encoding E2 enzyme that negatively regulates phosphate uptake and root-to-shoot allocation, while miR827 targets SPX-domain-containing genes that negatively regulate other P-responsive genes. However, the response of miR399 and miR827 to P conditions in barley has not been investigated. In this study, we investigated the expression profiles of miR399 and miR827 in barley (Hordeum vulagre L.) under P-deficient and P-sufficient conditions. We identified 10 members of the miR399 family and one miR827 gene in barley, all of which were significantly up-regulated under deficient P. In addition, we found many isomirs of the miR399 family and miR827, most of which were also significantly up-regulated under deficient P. Several isomirs of miR399 members were found to be able to cleave their predicted targets in vivo. Surprisingly, a few small RNAs (sRNAs) derived from the single-stranded loops of the hairpin structures of MIR399b and MIR399e-1 were also found to be able to cleave their predicted targets in vivo. Many antisense sRNAs of miR399 and a few for miR827 were also detected, but they did not seem to be regulated by P. Intriguingly, the lowest expressed member, hvu-miR399k, had four-fold more antisense sRNAs than sense sRNAs, and furthermore under P sufficiency, the antisense sRNAs are more frequent than the sense sRNAs. We identified a potential regulatory network among miR399, its target HvPHO2 and target mimics HvIPS1 and HvIPS2 in barley under P-deficient and P-sufficient conditions. Our data provide an important insight into the mechanistic regulation and function of miR399, miR827 and their isomirs in barley under different P conditions.
Programmed cell death is a key feature of epidermal plant immunity, which is particularly effective against biotrophic microbes that depend on living host tissue. The covered smut fungus Ustilago hordei establishes a compatible biotrophic interaction with its host plant barley. The maize smut U. maydis triggers a nonhost response in barley, which results in epidermal cell death. Similarly, Ustilago mutants being deleted for pep1, a gene encoding a secreted effector, are blocked upon host penetration. We studied the epidermal responses of barley to incompatible Ustilago strains. Molecular and cellular analyses were used to test the impact of Bax inhibitor-1 (BI-1), a suppressor of programmed cell death, on the barley nonhost resistance to U. maydis as well as Ustilago Δpep1 mutants. Overexpression of BI-1 resulted in partial break of barley nonhost resistance to U. maydis. By contrast, the epidermal cell death response triggered by pep1 deletion mutants was not impaired by BI-1. Hypersensitive-response-like cell death caused by U. maydis wild-type infection showed features of necrotic cell death, while Δpep1 mutant-induced host responses involved hallmarks of autophagy. Therefore, we propose that the mechanisms of epidermal cell death in response to different types of incompatible pathogens depend on spatial and temporal appearance of cell-death-triggering stimuli.
Alloplasmic lines provide a unique tool to study nuclear-cytoplasmic interactions. Three alloplasmic lines, with nuclear genomes from Triticum aestivum and harboring cytoplasm from Aegilops uniaristata, Aegilops tauschii and Hordeum chilense, were investigated by transcript and metabolite profiling to identify the effects of cytoplasmic substitution on nuclear-cytoplasmic signaling mechanisms. In combining the wheat nuclear genome with a cytoplasm of H. chilense, 540 genes were significantly altered, whereas 11 and 28 genes were significantly changed in the alloplasmic lines carrying the cytoplasm of Ae. uniaristata or Ae. tauschii, respectively. We identified the RNA maturation-related process as one of the most sensitive to a perturbation of the nuclear-cytoplasmic interaction. Several key components of the ROS chloroplast retrograde signaling, together with the up-regulation of the ROS scavenging system, showed that changes in the chloroplast genome have a direct impact on nuclear-cytoplasmic cross-talk. Remarkably, the H. chilense alloplasmic line down-regulated some genes involved in the determination of cytoplasmic male sterility without expressing the male sterility phenotype. Metabolic profiling showed a comparable response of the central metabolism of the alloplasmic and euplasmic lines to light, while exposing larger metabolite alterations in the H. chilense alloplasmic line as compared with the Aegilops lines, in agreement with the transcriptomic data. Several stress-related metabolites, remarkably raffinose, were altered in content in the H. chilense alloplasmic line when exposed to high light, while amino acids, as well as organic acids were significantly decreased. Alterations in the levels of transcript, related to raffinose, and the photorespiration-related metabolisms were associated with changes in the level of related metabolites. The replacement of a wheat cytoplasm with the cytoplasm of a related species affects the nuclear-cytoplasmic cross-talk leading to transcript and metabolite alterations. The extent of these modifications was limited in the alloplasmic lines with Aegilops cytoplasm, and more evident in the alloplasmic line with H. chilense cytoplasm. We consider that, this finding might be linked to the phylogenetic distance of the genomes.
Carotenoid rich diets have been associated with lower risk of certain diseases. The great importance of cereals in human diet has directed breeding programs towards carotenoid enhancement to alleviate these deficiencies in developing countries and to offer new functional foods in the developed ones. The new cereal tritordeum (×Tritordeum Ascherson et Graebener) derived from durum wheat (Triticum turgidum ssp. durum) and the wild barley Hordeum chilense, naturally presents carotenoid levels 5-8 times higher than those of durum wheat. The improvement of tritordeum properties as a new functional food requires the elucidation of biosynthetic steps for carotenoid accumulation in seeds that differ from durum wheat. In this work expression patterns of nine genes from the isoprenoid and carotenoid biosynthetic pathways were monitored during grain development in durum wheat and tritordeum. Additionally, a fine identification and quantification of pigments (chlorophylls and carotenoids) during grain development and in mature seeds has been addressed. Transcript levels of Psy1, Psy2, Zds, e-Lcy and b-Lcy were found to correlate to carotenoid content in mature grains. The specific activation of the homeologous genes Psy1, e-Lcy from H. chilense and the high lutein esterification found in tritordeum may serve to explain the differences with durum wheat in carotenoid accumulation.
Glutathione peroxidases (GPXs) are a group of enzymes that protect cells against oxidative damage generated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). GPX catalyzes the reduction of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) or organic hydroperoxides to water or alcohols by reduced glutathione. The presence of GPXs in plants has been reported by several groups, but the roles of individual members of this family in a single plant species have not been studied. Two GPX cDNAs were isolated and characterized from the embryogenic callus of Panax ginseng. The two cDNAs had an open reading frame (ORF) of 723 and 681bp with a deduced amino acid sequence of 240 and 226 residues, respectively. The calculated molecular mass of the matured proteins are approximately 26.4kDa or 25.7kDa with a predicated isoelectric point of 9.16 or 6.11, respectively. The two PgGPXs were elevated strongly by salt stress and chilling stress in a ginseng seedling. In addition, the two PgGPXs showed different responses against biotic stress. The positive responses of PgGPX to the environmental stimuli suggested that ginseng GPX may help to protect against environmental stresses.
Cereal varieties with improved salinity tolerance are needed to achieve profitable grain yields in saline soils. The expression of AVP1, an Arabidopsis gene encoding a vacuolar proton pumping pyrophosphatase (H⁺-PPase), has been shown to improve the salinity tolerance of transgenic plants in greenhouse conditions. However, the potential for this gene to improve the grain yield of cereal crops in a saline field has yet to be evaluated. Recent advances in high-throughput nondestructive phenotyping technologies also offer an opportunity to quantitatively evaluate the growth of transgenic plants under abiotic stress through time. In this study, the growth of transgenic barley expressing AVP1 was evaluated under saline conditions in a pot experiment using nondestructive plant imaging and in a saline field trial. Greenhouse-grown transgenic barley expressing AVP1 produced a larger shoot biomass compared to null segregants, as determined by an increase in projected shoot area, when grown in soil with 150 mM NaCl. This increase in shoot biomass of transgenic AVP1 barley occurred from an early growth stage and also in nonsaline conditions. In a saline field, the transgenic barley expressing AVP1 also showed an increase in shoot biomass and, importantly, produced a greater grain yield per plant compared to wild-type plants. Interestingly, the expression of AVP1 did not alter barley leaf sodium concentrations in either greenhouse- or field-grown plants. This study validates our greenhouse-based experiments and indicates that transgenic barley expressing AVP1 is a promising option for increasing cereal crop productivity in saline fields.
Barley is one of the most important cereal crops grown worldwide. It has numerous applications, but its utility could potentially be extended by genetically manipulating its hormonal balances. To explore some of this potential we identified gene families of cytokinin dehydrogenases (CKX) and isopentenyl transferases, enzymes that respectively irreversibly degrade and synthesize cytokinin (CK) plant hormones, in the raw sequenced barley genome. We then examined their spatial and temporal expression patterns by immunostaining and qPCR. Two CKX-specific antibodies, anti-HvCKX1 and anti-HvCKX9, predominantly detect proteins in the aleurone layer of maturing grains and leaf vasculature, respectively. In addition, two selected CKX genes were used for stable, Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of the barley cultivar Golden Promise. The results show that constitutive overexpression of CKX causes morphological changes in barley plants and prevents their transition to flowering. In all independent transgenic lines roots proliferated more rapidly and root-to-shoot ratios were higher than in wild-type plants. Only one transgenic line, overexpressing CKX under the control of a promoter from a phosphate transporter gene, which is expressed more strongly in root tissue than in aerial parts, yielded progeny. Analysis of several T1-generation plants indicates that plants tend to compensate for effects of the transgene and restore CK homeostasis later during development. Depleted CK levels during early phases of development are restored by down-regulation of endogenous CKX genes and reinforced de novo biosynthesis of CKs.
Germination of primary dormant barley grains is promoted by darkness and temperatures below 20 °C, but is strongly inhibited by blue light. Exposure under blue light at 10 °C for periods longer than five days, results in a progressive inability to germinate in the dark, considered as secondary dormancy. We demonstrate that the inhibitory effect of blue light is reinforced in hypoxia. The inhibitory effect of blue light is associated with an increase in embryo abscisic acid (ABA) content (by 3.5- to 3.8-fold) and embryo sensitivity to both ABA and hypoxia. Analysis of expression of ABA metabolism genes shows that increase in ABA mainly results in a strong increase in HvNCED1 and HvNCED2 expression, and a slight decrease in HvABA8'OH-1. Among the gibberellins (GA) metabolism genes examined, blue light decreases the expression of HvGA3ox2, involved in GA synthesis, increases that of GA2ox3 and GA2ox5, involved in GA catabolism, and reduces the GA signalling evaluated by the HvExpA11 expression. Expression of secondary dormancy is associated with maintenance of high embryo ABA content and a low HvExpA11 expression. The partial reversion of the inhibitory effect of blue light by green light also suggests that cryptochrome might be involved in this hormonal regulation.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) Mildew resistance locus a (Mla) confers allele-specific interactions with natural variants of the ascomycete fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh), the causal agent of powdery mildew disease. Significant reprogramming of Mla-mediated gene expression occurs upon infection by this obligate biotrophic pathogen.  We utilized a proteomics-based approach, combined with barley mla, required for Mla12 resistance1 (rar1), and restoration of Mla resistance1 (rom1) mutants, to identify components of Mla-directed signaling.  Loss-of-function mutations in Mla and Rar1 both resulted in the reduced accumulation of chloroplast copper/zinc superoxide dismutase 1 (HvSOD1), whereas loss of function in Rom1 re-established HvSOD1 levels. In addition, both Mla and Rom1 negatively regulated hvu-microRNA398 (hvu-miR398), and up-regulation of miR398 was coupled to reduced HvSOD1 expression. Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV)-mediated over-expression of both barley and Arabidopsis miR398 repressed accumulation of HvSOD1, and BSMV-induced gene silencing of HvSod1 impeded Mla-triggered H₂O₂ and hypersensitive reaction (HR) at barley-Bgh interaction sites.  These data indicate that Mla- and Rom1-regulated hvu-miR398 represses HvSOD1 accumulation, influencing effector-induced HR in response to the powdery mildew fungus.
Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of barley is a valuable tool for determining gene function by over-expression of a gene of interest or by RNAi-based gene silencing. The method is based on the inoculation of immature embryos with Agrobacterium and uses a hygromycin resistance gene to allow selection of transgenic plants. The protocol described leads to average transformation efficiencies of 25 % meaning that large numbers of fertile transgenic plants can be produced.
Domain of unknown function (DUF) proteins represent a number of gene families that encode functionally uncharacterized proteins in eukaryotes. For example, DUF1618 family members in plants possess a 56-199-amino acid conserved domain and this family has not been described previously. Here, we report the characterization of 121 DUF1618 genes identified in the rice genome. Based on phylogenetic analysis, the rice DUF1618 family was divided into two major groups, each group consisting of two clades. Most DUF1618 genes with close phylogenetic relationships are located in gene clusters on the chromosomes, indicating that gene duplications increased the number of DUF1618 genes. A search for DUF1618 genes in genomic and/or expressed sequence tag databases for 35 other plant species showed that DUF1618 genes are only present in several monocot plants, suggesting that DUF1618 is a new gene family that originated after the dicot-monocot divergence. Based on public microarray databases, most rice DUF1618 genes are expressed at relatively low levels. Further experimental analysis showed that the transcriptional levels of some DUF1618 genes varied in different cultivars, and some responded to stress and hormone conditions, suggesting their important roles for development and fitness in rice (Oryza sativa L.).
Head blight, which is caused by mycotoxin-producing fungi of the genus Fusarium, is an economically important crop disease. We assessed the potential of host-induced gene silencing targeting the fungal cytochrome P450 lanosterol C-14α-demethylase (CYP51) genes, which are essential for ergosterol biosynthesis, to restrict fungal infection. In axenic cultures of Fusarium graminearum, in vitro feeding of CYP3RNA, a 791-nt double-stranded (ds)RNA complementary to CYP51A, CYP51B, and CYP51C, resulted in growth inhibition [half-maximum growth inhibition (IC50) = 1.2 nM] as well as altered fungal morphology, similar to that observed after treatment with the azole fungicide tebuconazole, for which the CYP51 enzyme is a target. Expression of the same dsRNA in Arabidopsis and barley rendered susceptible plants highly resistant to fungal infection. Microscopic analysis revealed that mycelium formation on CYP3RNA-expressing leaves was restricted to the inoculation sites, and that inoculated barley caryopses were virtually free of fungal hyphae. This inhibition of fungal growth correlated with in planta production of siRNAs corresponding to the targeted CYP51 sequences, as well as highly efficient silencing of the fungal CYP51 genes. The high efficiency of fungal inhibition suggests that host-induced gene-silencing targeting of the CYP51 genes is an alternative to chemical treatments for the control of devastating fungal diseases.
Epigenetic factors such as DNA methylation and histone modifications regulate a wide range of processes in plant development. Cytosine methylation and demethylation exist in a dynamic balance and have been associated with gene silencing or activation, respectively. In Arabidopsis, cytosine demethylation is achieved by specific DNA glycosylases, including AtDME (DEMETER) and AtROS1 (REPRESSOR OF SILENCING1), which have been shown to play important roles in seed development. Nevertheless, studies on monocot DNA glycosylases are limited. Here we present the study of a DME homologue from barley (HvDME), an agronomically important cereal crop, during seed development and in response to conditions of drought. An HvDME gene, identified in GenBank, was found to encode a protein with all the characteristic modules of DME-family DNA glycosylase proteins. Phylogenetic analysis revealed a high degree of homology to other monocot DME glycosylases, and sequence divergence from the ROS1, DML2 and DML3 orthologues. The HvDME gene contains the 5' and 3' Long Terminal Repeats (LTR) of a Copia retrotransposon element within the 3' downstream region. HvDME transcripts were shown to be present both in vegetative and reproductive tissues and accumulated differentially in different seed developmental stages and in two different cultivars with varying seed size. Additionally, remarkable induction of HvDME was evidenced in response to drought treatment in a drought-tolerant barley cultivar. Moreover, variable degrees of DNA methylation in specific regions of the HvDME promoter and gene body were detected in two different cultivars. A gene encoding a DNA glycosylase closely related to cereal DME glycosylases was characterized in barley. Expression analysis during seed development and under dehydration conditions suggested a role for HvDME in endosperm development, seed maturation, and in response to drought. Furthermore, differential DNA methylation patterns within the gene in two different cultivars suggested epigenetic regulation of HvDME. The study of a barley DME gene will contribute to our understanding of epigenetic mechanisms operating during seed development and stress response in agronomically important cereal crops.
Wild barley eibi1 mutant with HvABCG31 gene mutation has low capacity to retain leaf water, a phenotype associated with reduced cutin deposition and a thin cuticle. To better understand how such a mutant plant survives, we performed a genome-wide gene expression analysis. The leaf transcriptomes between the near-isogenic lines eibi1 and the wild type were compared using the 22-k Barley1 Affymetrix microarray. We found that the pleiotropic effect of the single gene HvABCG31 mutation was linked to the co-regulation of metabolic processes and stress-related system. The cuticle development involved cytochrome P450 family members and fatty acid metabolism pathways were significantly up-regulated by the HvABCG31 mutation, which might be anticipated to reduce the levels of cutin monomers or wax and display conspicuous cuticle defects. The candidate genes for responses to stress were induced by eibi1 mutant through activating the jasmonate pathway. The down-regulation of co-expressed enzyme genes responsible for DNA methylation and histone deacetylation also suggested that HvABCG31 mutation may affect the epigenetic regulation for barley development. Comparison of transcriptomic profiling of barley under biotic and abiotic stresses revealed that the functions of HvABCG31 gene to high-water loss rate might be different from other osmotic stresses of gene mutations in barley. The transcriptional profiling of the HvABCG31 mutation provided candidate genes for further investigation of the physiological and developmental changes caused by the mutant.
Non-symbiotic hemoglobin (nsHb) genes are ubiquitous in plants, but their biological functions have mostly been studied in model plant species rather than in crops. nsHb influences cell signaling and metabolism by modulating the levels of nitric oxide (NO). Class 1 nsHb is upregulated under hypoxia and is involved in various biotic and abiotic stress responses. Ectopic overexpression of nsHb in Arabidopsis thaliana accelerates development, whilst targeted overexpression in seeds can increase seed yield. Such observations suggest that manipulating nsHb could be a valid biotechnological target. We studied the effects of overexpression of class 1 nsHb in the monocotyledonous crop plant barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Golden Promise). nsHb was shown to be involved in NO metabolism in barley, as ectopic overexpression reduced the amount of NO released during hypoxia. Further, as in Arabidopsis, nsHb overexpression compromised basal resistance toward pathogens in barley. However, unlike Arabidopsis, nsHb ectopic overexpression delayed growth and development in barley, and seed specific overexpression reduced seed yield. Thus, nsHb overexpression in barley does not seem to be an efficient strategy for increasing yield in cereal crops. These findings highlight the necessity for using actual crop plants rather than laboratory model plants when assessing the effects of biotechnological approaches to crop improvement.
SUPPRESSOR OF VARIEGATION 4 (SVR4, also called MRL7) and its homolog SVR4-like (also called MRL7-Like) were originally identified as important proteins for proper function of the chloroplast in Arabidopsis. Both are nuclear-encoded chloroplast-located proteins, and knockout mutants of either gene result in seedling lethality. Transmission electron microscopy analysis revealed that chloroplast development is arrested at an early developmental stage in both mutants. Accordingly, in the mutant plants severely decreased levels of photosynthetic pigments as well as subunits of the photosynthetic complexes could be detected. In absence of either of the two proteins chloroplast DNA organization was clearly affected. Immunological analysis revealed that SVR4 is a component of the transcriptionally active chromosome (TAC) from barley chloroplasts. Analyses of gene expression indicate that SVR4 and SVR4-like are required for proper function of the plastid transcriptional machinery. We propose that SVR4 and SVR4-like function as molecular chaperones ensuring proper organization of the nucleoids in chloroplasts.
The first crystal structure of a barwin-like protein, named carwin, has been determined at high resolution by single-wavelength anomalous diffraction (SAD) phasing using the six intrinsic S atoms present in the protein. The barwin-like protein was purified from Carica papaya latex and crystallized in the orthorhombic space group P212121. Using in-house Cu Kα X-ray radiation, 16 cumulative diffraction data sets were acquired to increase the signal-to-noise level and thereby the anomalous scattering signal. A sequence-database search on the papaya genome identified two carwin isoforms of 122 residues in length, both containing six S atoms that yield an estimated Bijvoet ratio of 0.93% at 1.54 Å wavelength. A systematic analysis of data quality and redundancy was performed to assess the capacity to locate the S atoms and to phase the data. It was observed that the crystal decay was low during data collection and that successful S-SAD phasing could be obtained with a relatively low data multiplicity of about 7. Using a synchrotron source, high-resolution data (1 Å) were collected from two different crystal forms of the papaya latex carwin. The refined structures showed a central β-barrel of six strands surrounded by several α-helices and loops. The β-barrel of carwin appears to be a common structural module that is shared within several other unrelated proteins. Finally, the possible biological function of the protein is discussed.
Numerous studies have shown effects of abscisic acid (ABA) on nuclear genes encoding chloroplast-localized proteins. ABA effects on the transcription of chloroplast genes, however, have not been investigated yet thoroughly. This work, therefore, studied the effects of ABA (75 μM) on transcription and steady-state levels of transcripts in chloroplasts of basal and apical segments of primary leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Basal segments consist of young cells with developing chloroplasts, while apical segments contain the oldest cells with mature chloroplasts. Exogenous ABA reduced the chlorophyll content and caused changes of the endogenous concentrations not only of ABA but also of cytokinins to different extents in the basal and apical segments. It repressed transcription by the chloroplast phage-type and bacteria-type RNA polymerases and lowered transcript levels of most investigated chloroplast genes drastically. ABA did not repress the transcription of psbD and a few other genes and even increased psbD mRNA levels under certain conditions. The ABA effects on chloroplast transcription were more pronounced in basal vs. apical leaf segments and enhanced by light. Simultaneous application of cytokinin (22 μM 6-benzyladenine) minimized the ABA effects on chloroplast gene expression. These data demonstrate that ABA affects the expression of chloroplast genes differentially and points to a role of ABA in the regulation and coordination of the activities of nuclear and chloroplast genes coding for proteins with functions in photosynthesis.
In plants, numerous developmental processes are controlled by cytokinin (CK) levels and their ratios to levels of other hormones. While molecular mechanisms underlying the regulatory roles of CKs have been intensely researched, proteomic and metabolomic responses to CK deficiency are unknown. Transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings carrying inducible barley cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase (CaMV35S>GR>HvCKX2) and agrobacterial isopentenyl transferase (CaMV35S>GR>ipt) constructs were profiled to elucidate proteome- and metabolome-wide responses to down- and up-regulation of CK levels, respectively. Proteome profiling identified >1100 proteins, 155 of which responded to HvCKX2 and/or ipt activation, mostly involved in growth, development, and/or hormone and light signalling. The metabolome profiling covered 79 metabolites, 33 of which responded to HvCKX2 and/or ipt activation, mostly amino acids, carbohydrates, and organic acids. Comparison of the data sets obtained from activated CaMV35S>GR>HvCKX2 and CaMV35S>GR>ipt plants revealed unexpectedly extensive overlaps. Integration of the proteomic and metabolomic data sets revealed: (i) novel components of molecular circuits involved in CK action (e.g. ribosomal proteins); (ii) previously unrecognized links to redox regulation and stress hormone signalling networks; and (iii) CK content markers. The striking overlaps in profiles observed in CK-deficient and CK-overproducing seedlings might explain surprising previously reported similarities between plants with down- and up-regulated CK levels.
To explain the low levels of starch, high levels of (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan, and thick cell walls in grains of Brachypodium distachyon L. relative to those in other Pooideae, aspects of grain development were compared between B. distachyon and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Cell proliferation, cell expansion, and endoreduplication were reduced in B. distachyon relative to barley and, consistent with these changes, transcriptional downregulation of the cell-cycle genes CDKB1 and cyclin A3 was observed. Similarly, reduced transcription of starch synthase I and starch-branching enzyme I was observed as well as reduced activity of starch synthase and ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, which are consistent with the lowered starch content in B. distachyon grains. No change was detected in transcription of the major gene involved in (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan synthesis, cellulose synthase-like F6. These results suggest that, while low starch content results from a reduced capacity for starch synthesis, the unusually thick cell walls in B. distachyon endosperm probably result from continuing (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan deposition in endosperm cells that fail to expand. This raises the possibility that endosperm expansion is linked to starch deposition.
The root epidermis of most vascular plants harbours two cell types, namely trichoblasts (capable of producing a root hair) and atrichoblasts. Here, in vivo analysis, confocal laser-scanning microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, histological analysis, and three-dimensional reconstruction were used to characterize the cell types present in the barley root epidermis and their distribution in the tissue. Both trichoblasts and atrichoblasts were present in the wild-type cultivars and could be distinguished from one another at an early stage. Trichoblast/atrichoblast differentiation depended on asymmetric cell expansion after a period of symmetrical cell division. After asymmetric growth, only the shorter epidermal cells could produce root hairs, whereas the longer cells became atrichoblasts. Moreover, the root epidermis did not develop root hairs at all if the epidermal cells did not differentiate into two asymmetric cell types. The root hairless phenotype of bald root barley (brb) and root hairless 1.b (rhl1.b) mutants was caused by a mutation in a gene related to the asymmetric expansion of the root epidermal cells. Additionally, the results showed that the mechanism of trichoblast/atrichoblast differentiation is not evolutionally conserved across the subfamilies of the Poaceae; in the Pooideae subfamily, both asymmetric division and asymmetric cell expansion have been observed.
The BARE retrotransposon comprises c. 10% of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) genome. It is actively transcribed, translated and forms virus-like particles (VLPs). For retrotransposons, the inheritance of new copies depends critically on where in the plant replication occurs. In order to shed light on the replication strategy of BARE in the plant, we have used immunolocalization and in situ hybridization to examine expression of the BARE capsid protein, Gag, at a tissue-specific level. Gag is expressed in provascular tissues and highly localized in companion cells surrounding the phloem sieve tubes in mature vascular tissues. BARE Gag and RNA was not seen in the shoot apical meristem of young seedlings, but appeared, following transition to flowering, in the developing floral spike. Moreover, Gag has a highly specific localization in pre-fertilization ovaries. The strong presence of Gag in the floral meristems suggests that newly replicated copies there will be passed to the next generation. BARE expression patterns are consistent with transcriptional regulation by predicted response elements in the BARE promoter, and in the ovary with release from epigenetic transcriptional silencing. To our knowledge, this is the first analysis of the expression of native retrotransposon proteins within a plant to be reported.
High expression of zinc (Zn)-regulated, iron-regulated transporter-like protein (ZIP) genes increases root Zn uptake in dicots, leading to high accumulation of Zn in shoots. However, none of the ZIP genes tested previously in monocots could enhance shoot Zn accumulation. In this report, barley (Hordeum vulgare) HvZIP7 was investigated for its functions in Zn transport. The functions of HvZIP7 in planta were studied using in situ hybridization and transient analysis of subcellular localization with a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter. Transgenic barley lines overexpressing HvZIP7 were also generated to further understand the functions of HvZIP7 in metal transport. HvZIP7 is strongly induced by Zn deficiency, primarily in vascular tissues of roots and leaves, and its protein was localized in the plasma membrane. These properties are similar to its closely related homologs in dicots. Overexpression of HvZIP7 in barley plants increased Zn uptake when moderately high concentrations of Zn were supplied. Significantly, there was a specific enhancement of shoot Zn accumulation, with no measurable increase in iron (Fe), manganese (Mn), copper (Cu) or cadmium (Cd). HvZIP7 displays characteristics of low-affinity Zn transport. The unique function of HvZIP7 provides new insights into the role of ZIP genes in Zn homeostasis in monocots, and offers opportunities to develop Zn biofortification strategies in cereals.
The spring-type near isogenic line (NIL) of the winter-type barley (Hordeum vulgare ssp. vulgare) var. Hayakiso 2 (HK2) was developed by introducing VERNALIZATION-H1 (Vrn-H1) for spring growth habit from the spring-type var. Indo Omugi. Contrary to expectations, the spring-type NIL flowered later than winter-type HK2. This phenotypic difference was controlled by a single gene, which cosegregated only with phytochrome C (HvPhyC) among three candidates around the Vrn-H1 region (Vrn-H1, HvPhyC, and CASEIN KINASE IIα), indicating that HvPhyC was the most likely candidate gene. Compared with the late-flowering allele HvPhyC-l from the NIL, the early-flowering allele HvPhyC-e from HK2 had a single nucleotide polymorphism T1139C in exon 1, which caused a nonsynonymous amino acid substitution of phenylalanine at position 380 by serine in the functionally essential GAF (3', 5'-cyclic-GMP phosphodiesterase, adenylate cyclase, formate hydrogen lyase activator protein) domain. Functional assay using a rice (Oryza sativa) phyA phyC double mutant line showed that both of the HvPhyC alleles are functional, but HvPhyC-e may have a hyperfunction. Expression analysis using NILs carrying HvPhyC-e and HvPhyC-l (NIL [HvPhyC-e] and NIL [HvPhyC-l], respectively) showed that HvPhyC-e up-regulated only the flowering promoter FLOWERING LOCUS T1 by bypassing the circadian clock genes and flowering integrator CONSTANS1 under a long photoperiod. Consistent with the up-regulation, NIL (HvPhyC-e) flowered earlier than NIL (HvPhyC-l) under long photoperiods. These results implied that HvPhyC is a key factor to control long-day flowering directly.
Soil salinity is one of the most severe abiotic stress factors threatening agriculture worldwide. Hence, particular interest exists in unraveling mechanisms leading to salt tolerance and improved crop plant performance on saline soils. Barley is considered to be one of the most salinity-tolerant crops, but varying levels of tolerance are well characterized. A proteomic analysis of the roots of two contrasting cultivars (cv. Steptoe and cv. Morex) is presented. Young plants were exposed to a period of 1, 4, 7, or 10 d at 0, 100, or 150 mM NaCl. The root proteome was analyzed based on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. A number of cultivar-specific and salinity stress-responsive proteins were identified. Mass spectrometry-based identification was successful for 74 proteins, and a hierarchical clustering analysis grouped these into five clusters based on similarity of expression profile. The rank product method was applied to statistically access the early and late responses, and this delivered a number of new candidate proteins underlying salinity tolerance in barley. Among these were some germin-like proteins, some pathogenesis-related proteins, and numerous as-yet uncharacterized proteins. Notably, proteins involved in detoxification pathways and terpenoid biosynthesis were detected as early responsive to salinity and may function as a means of modulating growth-regulating mechanisms and membrane stability via fine tuning of phytohormone and secondary metabolism in the root.
The function of starch phosphorylase has long been debated on the regulation of starch metabolism during the growth and development of plants. In this study, we isolated starch phosphorylase genes (Pho1 and Pho2) from barley, characterized their gene and protein structures, predicated their promoter's cis-elements and analyzed expression patterns. Multiple alignments of these genes showed that (1) both Pho1 and Pho2 genes possess 15 exons and 14 introns in all but three of the species analyzed, Aegilops tauschii (for Pho1 which contains 16 exons and 15 introns), potato (for Pho1b which contains 14 exons and 13 introns), and Triticum uraru (for Pho2 which contains 15 exons and 14 introns); (2) the exon-intron junctions of Pho1 and Pho2 flanking the ligand-binding sites are more conservative than the other regions. Analysis of protein sequences revealed that Pho1 and Pho2 were highly homologous except for two regions, the N terminal domain and the L78 insertion region. The results of real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) indicated that Pho2 is mainly expressed in germinating seeds, and the expression of Pho1 is similar to that of starch synthesis genes during seed development in barley. Microarray-based analysis indicated that the accumulation of Pho1 or Pho2 transcripts exhibited uniform pattern both in various tissues and various stages of seed development among species of barley, rice, and Arabidopsis. Pho1 of barley was significantly down-regulated under cold and drought treatments, and up-regulated under stem rust infection. Pho2 exhibited similar expression to Pho1 in barley. However, significant difference in expression was not detected for either Pho1 or Pho2 under any of the investigated abiotic stresses. In Arabidopsis, significant down-regulation was detected for Pho1 (PHS1) under abscisic acid (ABA) and for Pho2 (PHS2) under cold, salt, and ABA. Our results provide valuable information to genetically manipulate phosphorylase genes and to further elucidate their regulatory mechanism in the starch biosynthetic pathway.
Seed germination is a critical process in the life cycle of higher plants. During germination, the imbibed mature seed is highly sensitive to different environmental factors.However, knowledge about the molecular and physiological mechanisms underlying the environmental effects on germination has been lacking. Recent proteomic work has provided invaluable insight into the molecular processes in germinating seeds of Arabidopsis, rice (Oryza sativa), soybean (Glycine max), barley (Hordeum vulgare), maize (Zeamays), tea (Camellia sinensis), European beech (Fagus sylvatica), and Norway maple (Acer platanoides) under different treatments including metal ions (e.g. copper and cadmium), drought, low temperature, hormones, and chemicals (gibberellic acid, abscisic acid, salicylic acid, and α-amanitin), as well as Fusarium graminearum infection. A total of 561 environmental factor-responsive proteins have been identified with various expression patterns in germinating seeds. The data highlight diverse regulatory and metabolic mechanisms upon seed germination, including induction of environmental factor-responsive signaling pathways, seed storage reserve mobilization and utilization, enhancement of DNA repair and modification, regulation of gene expression and protein synthesis, modulation of cell structure, and cell defense. In this review, we summarize the interesting findings and discuss the relevance and significance for our understanding of environmental regulation of seed germination.
Drought and low temperature are the two most significant causes of abiotic stress in agricultural crops and, therefore, they pose considerable challenges in plant science. Hence, it is crucial to study response mechanisms and to select genes for identification signaling pathways that lead from stimulus to response. The assessment of gene expression is often attempted using real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR), a technique which requires a careful choice of reference gene(s) for normalization purpose. Here, we report a comparison of 13 potential reference genes for studying gene expression in the leaf and crown of barley seedlings subjected to low temperature or drought stress. All three currently available software packages designed to identify reference genes from qRT-PCR data (GeNorm, NormFinder and BestKeeper) were used to identify informative sets of up to three reference genes. Interestingly, the data obtained from the separate treatment of leaf and crown have led to the recommendations that HSP70 and S-AMD (and possibly HSP90) to be used as the reference genes for low-temperature stressed leaves, HSP90 and EF1α for low-temperature stressed crowns, cyclophilin and ADP-RF (and possibly ACT) for drought-stressed leaves, and EF1α and S-AMD for drought-stressed crowns. Our results have demonstrated that the gene expression can be highly tissue- or organ-specific in barley and have confirmed that reference gene choice is essential in qRT-PCR. The findings can also serve as guidelines for the selection of reference genes under different stress conditions and lay foundation for more accurate and widespread use of qRT-PCR in barley gene analysis.
FgABC1 (FGSG_04580) is predicted to encode a pleiotropic drug resistance class ABC transporter in Fusarium graminearum, a globally important pathogen of wheat. Deletion mutants of FgABC1 showed reduced virulence towards wheat in crown and root infection assays but were unaltered in infectivity on barley. Expression of FgABC1 during head blight and crown rot disease increases during the necrotrophic phases of infection suggestive of a role for FgABC1 in late infection stages in different tissue types. Deletion of FgABC1 also led to increased sensitivity of the fungus to the antifungal compound benalaxyl in culture, but the response to known cereal defence compounds, gramine, 2-benzoxazalinone and tryptamine was unaltered. FgABC1 appears to have a role in protecting the fungus from antifungal compounds and is likely to help combat as yet unidentified wheat defence compounds during disease development.
Both genome-wide transcriptomic surveys of the mRNA expression profiles and virus-induced gene silencing-based molecular studies of target gene during virus-plant interaction involve the precise estimation of the transcript abundance. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) is the most widely adopted technique for mRNA quantification. In order to obtain reliable quantification of transcripts, identification of the best reference genes forms the basis of the preliminary work. Nevertheless, the stability of internal controls in virus-infected monocots needs to be fully explored. In this work, the suitability of ten housekeeping genes (ACT, EF1α, FBOX, GAPDH, GTPB, PP2A, SAND, TUBβ, UBC18 and UK) for potential use as reference genes in qPCR were investigated in five different monocot plants (Brachypodium, barley, sorghum, wheat and maize) under infection with different viruses including Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV), Brome mosaic virus (BMV), Rice black-streaked dwarf virus (RBSDV) and Sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV). By using three different algorithms, the most appropriate reference genes or their combinations were identified for different experimental sets and their effectiveness for the normalisation of expression studies were further validated by quantitative analysis of a well-studied PR-1 gene. These results facilitate the selection of desirable reference genes for more accurate gene expression studies in virus-infected monocots.
C-Repeat Binding Factors (CBFs) are DNA-binding transcriptional activators of gene pathways imparting freezing tolerance. Poaceae contain three CBF subfamilies, two of which, HvCBF3/CBFIII and HvCBF4/CBFIV, are unique to this taxon. To gain mechanistic insight into HvCBF4/CBFIV CBFs we overexpressed Hv-CBF2A in spring barley (Hordeum vulgare) cultivar 'Golden Promise'. The Hv-CBF2A overexpressing lines exhibited stunted growth, poor yield, and greater freezing tolerance compared to non-transformed 'Golden Promise'. Differences in freezing tolerance were apparent only upon cold acclimation. During cold acclimation freezing tolerance of the Hv-CBF2A overexpressing lines increased more rapidly than that of 'Golden Promise' and paralleled the freezing tolerance of the winter hardy barley 'Dicktoo'. Transcript levels of candidate CBF target genes, COR14B and DHN5 were increased in the overexpressor lines at warm temperatures, and at cold temperatures they accumulated to much higher levels in the Hv-CBF2A overexpressors than in 'Golden Promise'. Hv-CBF2A overexpression also increased transcript levels of other CBF genes at FROST RESISTANCE-H2-H2 (FR-H2) possessing CRT/DRE sites in their upstream regions, the most notable of which was CBF12. CBF12 transcript levels exhibited a relatively constant incremental increase above levels in 'Golden Promise' both at warm and cold. These data indicate that Hv-CBF2A activates target genes at warm temperatures and that transcript accumulation for some of these targets is greatly enhanced by cold temperatures.
The replication of Long Terminal Repeat (LTR) retrotransposons, which can constitute over 80% of higher plant genomes, resembles that of retroviruses. A major question for retrotransposons and retroviruses is how the two conflicting roles of their transcripts, in translation and reverse transcription, are balanced. Here, we show that the BARE retrotransposon, despite its organization into just one open reading frame, produces three distinct classes of transcripts. One is capped, polyadenylated, and translated, but cannot be copied into cDNA. The second is not capped or polyadenylated, but is destined for packaging and ultimate reverse transcription. The third class is capped, polyadenylated, and spliced to favor production of a subgenomic RNA encoding only Gag, the protein forming virus-like particles. Moreover, the BARE2 subfamily, which cannot synthesize Gag and is parasitic on BARE1, does not produce the spliced sub-genomic RNA for translation but does make the replication competent transcripts, which are packaged into BARE1 particles. To our knowledge, this is first demonstration of distinct RNA pools for translation and transcription for any retrotransposon.
Cleistogamy in barley is genetically determined by the presence of the recessive allele cly1, but the dominant allele at the linked locus Cly2 is epistatic over cly1. Although the molecular basis for cly1 action is well understood, that of Cly2 is not. Here we show that anther non-extrusion can occur not just when the lodicules fail to expand adequately (a trait which is fully determined by the allelic state at the cly1 locus), but by the premature timing of anthesis before the spike has emerged from the boot. The transcription of HvAP2 at cly1 is unaffected by the timing of anthesis. Where this occurs prematurely, by the time that the spike has emerged from the boot, the lodicules have already become shrunken and have lost the capacity to push the lemma and palea apart. Premature anthesis appears to be governed by a dominant gene, probably Cly2. Of the three phases of development of a non-cleistogamous barley floret (spike emergence from the boot, floret gaping induced by lodicule expansion and anther extrusion), genetic variation is available regarding at least the former two.
Mercury (Hg) is a toxic metal that affects plant growth. Here the effect of Hg exposure on plant growth and leaf gas-exchange together with gene expression in roots is reported for barley. Hg was mainly accumulated in roots and only very small amounts were found in the shoots. Chlorophyll fluorescence and net photosynthesis were not affected by Hg. Nevertheless exposure to Hg reduced shoot and root growth, the shoot to root ratio, stomatal conductance, carbon isotope discrimination and expression of an aquaporin transcript, whereas abscisic acid related transcripts were over-expressed. These results suggested some degree of limitation to water uptake causing a moderate water stress when plants are exposed to Hg. Microarray (MapMan) analysis revealed changes in the transcription of genes involved in nitrogen metabolism, which were accompanied by decreased nitrogen concentrations in the shoots, together with an increase in transcripts associated with secondary metabolism, stress, inhibition of DNA synthesis/chromatin structure and cell organization elements. Moreover, Hg induced the expression of many transcripts known to be involved in the uptake, accumulation, transport and general responses to other heavy metals. It is concluded that barley is able to accumulate high amounts of Hg in roots through several transcriptional, metabolic and physiological adjustments.
The phytase activity in food and feedstuffs is an important nutritional parameter. Members of the Triticeae tribe accumulate purple acid phosphatase phytases (PAPhy) during grain filling. This accumulation elevates mature grain phytase activities (MGPA) up to levels between ~650 FTU/kg for barley and 6000 FTU/kg for rye. This is notably more than other cereals. For instance, rice, maize, and oat have MGPAs below 100 FTU/kg. The cloning and characterization of the PAPhy gene complement from wheat, barley, rye, einkorn, and Aegilops tauschii is reported here. The Triticeae PAPhy genes generally consist of a set of paralogues, PAPhy_a and PAPhy_b, and have been mapped to Triticeae chromosomes 5 and 3, respectively. The promoters share a conserved core but the PAPhy_a promoter have acquired a novel cis-acting regulatory element for expression during grain filling while the PAPhy_b promoter has maintained the archaic function and drives expression during germination. Brachypodium is the only sequenced Poaceae sharing the PAPhy duplication. As for the Triticeae, the duplication is reflected in a high MGPA of ~4200 FTU/kg in Brachypodium. The sequence conservation of the paralogous loci on Brachypodium chromosomes 1 and 2 does not extend beyond the PAPhy gene. The results indicate that a single-gene segmental duplication may have enabled the evolution of high MGPA by creating functional redundancy of the parent PAPhy gene. This implies that similar MGPA levels may be out of reach in breeding programs for some Poaceae, e.g. maize and rice, whereas Triticeae breeders should focus on PAPhy_a.
The mechanisms underpinning broad compatibility in root symbiosis are largely unexplored. The generalist root endophyte Piriformospora indica establishes long-lasting interactions with morphologically and biochemically different hosts, stimulating their growth, alleviating salt stress, and inducing local and systemic resistance to pathogens. Cytological studies and global investigations of fungal transcriptional responses to colonization of barley and Arabidopsis at different symbiotic stages identified host-dependent colonization strategies and host-specifically induced effector candidates. Here, we show that in Arabidopsis, P. indica establishes and maintains biotrophic nutrition within living epidermal cells, whereas in barley the symbiont undergoes a nutritional switch to saprotrophy that is associated with the production of secondary thinner hyphae in dead cortex cells. Consistent with a diversified trophic behavior and with the occurrence of nitrogen deficiency at the onset of saprotrophy in barley, fungal genes encoding hydrolytic enzymes and nutrient transporters were highly induced in this host but not in Arabidopsis. Silencing of the high-affinity ammonium transporter PiAMT1 gene, whose transcripts are accumulating during nitrogen starvation and in barley, resulted in enhanced colonization of this host, whereas it had no effect on the colonization of Arabidopsis. Increased levels of free amino acids and reduced enzymatic activity for the cell-death marker VPE (vacuolar-processing enzyme) in colonized barley roots coincided with an extended biotrophic lifestyle of P. indica upon silencing of PiAMT1. This suggests that PiAmt1 functions as a nitrogen sensor mediating the signal that triggers the in planta activation of the saprotrophic program. Thus, host-related metabolic cues affect the expression of P. indica's alternative lifestyles.
Barley HvNAC6 is a member of the plant-specific NAC (NAM, ATAF1,2, CUC2) transcription factor family and we have shown previously that it acts as a positive regulator of basal resistance in barley against the biotrophic pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh). In this study, we use a transgenic approach to constitutively silence HvNAC6 expression, using RNA interference (RNAi), to investigate the in vivo functions of HvNAC6 in basal resistance responses in barley in relation to the phytohormone ABA. The HvNAC6 RNAi plants displayed reduced HvNAC6 transcript levels and were more susceptible to Bgh than wild-type plants. Application of exogenous ABA increased basal resistance against Bgh in wild-type plants, but not in HvNAC6 RNAi plants, suggesting that ABA is a positive regulator of basal resistance which depends on HvNAC6. Silencing of HvNAC6 expression altered the light/dark rhythm of ABA levels which were, however, not influenced by Bgh inoculation. The expression of the two ABA biosynthetic genes HvNCED1 and HvNCED2 was compromised, and transcript levels of the ABA conjugating HvBG7 enzyme were elevated in the HvNAC6 RNAi lines, but this effect was not clearly associated with transgene-mediated resistance. Together, these data support a function of HvNAC6 as a regulator of ABA-mediated defence responses for maintenance of effective basal resistance against Bgh.
Pathogenic microbes manipulate eukaryotic cells during invasion and target plant proteins to achieve host susceptibility. BAX INHIBITOR-1 (BI-1) is an endoplasmic reticulum-resident cell death suppressor in plants and animals and is required for full susceptibility of barley to the barley powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei. LIFEGUARD (LFG) proteins resemble BI-1 proteins in terms of predicted membrane topology and cell-death-inhibiting function in metazoans, but display clear sequence-specific distinctions. This work shows that barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and Arabidopsis thaliana genomes harbour five LFG genes, HvLFGa-HvLFGe and AtLFG1-AtLFG5, whose functions are largely uncharacterized. As observed for HvBI-1, single-cell overexpression of HvLFGa supports penetration success of B. graminis f.sp. hordei into barley epidermal cells, while transient-induced gene silencing restricts it. In penetrated barley epidermal cells, a green fluorescent protein-tagged HvLFGa protein accumulates at the site of fungal entry, around fungal haustoria and in endosomal or vacuolar membranes. The data further suggest a role of LFG proteins in plant-powdery mildew interactions in both monocot and dicot plants, because stable overexpression or knockdown of AtLFG1 or AtLFG2 also support or delay development of the powdery mildew fungus Erysiphe cruciferarum on the respective Arabidopsis mutants. Together, this work has identified new modulators of plant-powdery mildew interactions, and the data further support functional similarities between BI-1 and LFG proteins beyond cell death regulation.
Inflorescence architecture of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is common among the Triticeae species, which bear one to three single-flowered spikelets at each rachis internode. Triple spikelet meristem is one of the unique features of barley spikes, in which three spikelets (one central and two lateral spikelets) are produced at each rachis internode. Fertility of the lateral spikelets at triple spikelet meristem gives row-type identity to barley spikes. Six-rowed spikes show fertile lateral spikelets and produce increased grain yield per spike, compared with two-rowed spikes with sterile lateral spikelets. Thus, far, two loci governing the row-type phenotype were isolated in barley that include Six-rowed spike1 (Vrs1) and Intermedium-C. In the present study, we isolated Six-rowed spike4 (Vrs4), a barley ortholog of the maize (Zea mays L.) inflorescence architecture gene RAMOSA2 (RA2). Eighteen coding mutations in barley RA2 (HvRA2) were specifically associated with lateral spikelet fertility and loss of spikelet determinacy. Expression analyses through mRNA in situ hybridization and microarray showed that Vrs4 (HvRA2) controls the row-type pathway through Vrs1 (HvHox1), a negative regulator of lateral spikelet fertility in barley. Moreover, Vrs4 may also regulate transcripts of barley SISTER OF RAMOSA3 (HvSRA), a putative trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase involved in trehalose-6-phosphate homeostasis implicated to control spikelet determinacy. Our expression data illustrated that, although RA2 is conserved among different grass species, its down-stream target genes appear to be modified in barley and possibly other species of tribe Triticeae.
Sheepgrass [Leymus chinensis (Trin.) Tzvel.] is an important perennial forage grass across the Eurasian Steppe and is known for its adaptability to various environmental conditions. However, insufficient data resources in public databases for sheepgrass limited our understanding of the mechanism of environmental adaptations, gene discovery and molecular marker development. The transcriptome of sheepgrass was sequenced using Roche 454 pyrosequencing technology. We assembled 952,328 high-quality reads into 87,214 unigenes, including 32,416 contigs and 54,798 singletons. There were 15,450 contigs over 500 bp in length. BLAST searches of our database against Swiss-Prot and NCBI non-redundant protein sequences (nr) databases resulted in the annotation of 54,584 (62.6%) of the unigenes. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis assigned 89,129 GO term annotations for 17,463 unigenes. We identified 11,675 core Poaceae-specific and 12,811 putative sheepgrass-specific unigenes by BLAST searches against all plant genome and transcriptome databases. A total of 2,979 specific freezing-responsive unigenes were found from this RNAseq dataset. We identified 3,818 EST-SSRs in 3,597 unigenes, and some SSRs contained unigenes that were also candidates for freezing-response genes. Characterizations of nucleotide repeats and dominant motifs of SSRs in sheepgrass were also performed. Similarity and phylogenetic analysis indicated that sheepgrass is closely related to barley and wheat. This research has greatly enriched sheepgrass transcriptome resources. The identified stress-related genes will help us to decipher the genetic basis of the environmental and ecological adaptations of this species and will be used to improve wheat and barley crops through hybridization or genetic transformation. The EST-SSRs reported here will be a valuable resource for future gene-phenotype studies and for the molecular breeding of sheepgrass and other Poaceae species.
Lactobacillus ruminis is an inhabitant of human bowels and bovine rumens. None of 10 isolates (three from bovine rumen, seven from human feces) of L. ruminis that were tested could utilize barley β-glucan for growth. Seven of the strains of L. ruminis were, however, able to utilize tetrasaccharides (3-O-β-cellotriosyl-d-glucose [LDP4] or 4-O-β-laminaribiosyl-d-cellobiose [CDP4]) present in β-glucan hydrolysates for growth. The tetrasaccharides were generated by the use of lichenase or cellulase, respectively. To learn more about the utilization of tetrasaccharides by L. ruminis, whole-transcriptome shotgun sequencing (RNA-seq) was tested as a transcriptional screen to detect altered gene expression when an autochthonous human strain (L5) was grown in medium containing CDP4. RNA-seq results were confirmed and extended by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR assays of selected genes in two upregulated operons when cells were grown as batch cultures in medium containing either CDP4 or LDP4. The cellobiose utilization operon had increased transcription, particularly in early growth phase, whereas the chemotaxis/motility operon was upregulated in late growth phase. Phenotypic changes were seen in relation to upregulation of chemotaxis/flagellar operons: flagella were rarely seen by electron microscopy on glucose-grown cells but cells cultured in tetrasaccharide medium were commonly flagellated. Chemotactic movement toward tetrasaccharides was demonstrated in capillary cultures. L. ruminis utilized 3-O-β-cellotriosyl-d-glucose released by β-glucan hydrolysis due to bowel commensal Coprococcus sp., indicating that cross feeding of tetrasaccharide between bacteria could occur. Therefore, the RNA-seq screen and subsequent experiments had utility in revealing foraging attributes of gut commensal Lactobacillus ruminis.
A highly virulent form of the wheat stem rust pathogen Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici race TTKSK is virulent on both wheat and barley, presenting a major threat to world food security. The recessive and temperature-sensitive rpg4 gene is the only effective source of resistance identified in barley (Hordeum vulgare) against P. graminis f. sp. tritici race TTKSK. Efforts to position clone rpg4 localized resistance to a small interval on barley chromosome 5HL, tightly linked to the rye stem rust (P. graminis f. sp. secalis) resistance (R) gene Rpg5. High-resolution genetic analysis and post-transcriptional gene silencing of the genes at the rpg4/Rpg5 locus determined that three tightly linked genes (Rpg5, HvRga1, and HvAdf3) are required together for rpg4-mediated wheat stem rust resistance. Alleles of the three genes were analyzed from a diverse set of 14 domesticated barley lines (H. vulgare) and 8 wild barley accessions (H. vulgare subsp. spontaneum) to characterize diversity that may determine incompatibility (resistance). The analysis determined that HvAdf3 and HvRga1 code for predicted functional proteins that do not appear to contain polymorphisms determining the compatible (susceptible) interactions with the wheat stem rust pathogen and were expressed at the transcriptional level from both resistant and susceptible barley lines. The HvAdf3 alleles shared 100% amino acid identity among all 22 genotypes examined. The P. graminis f. sp. tritici race QCCJ-susceptible barley lines with HvRga1 alleles containing the limited amino acid substitutions unique to the susceptible varieties also contained predicted nonfunctional rpg5 alleles. Thus, susceptibility in these lines is likely due to the nonfunctional RPG5 proteins. The Rpg5 allele analysis determined that 9 of the 13 P. graminis f. sp. tritici race QCCJ-susceptible barley lines contain alleles that either code for predicted truncated proteins as the result of a single nucleotide substitution, resulting in a stop codon at amino acid 161, a single cytosine indel causing a frame shift, and a stop codon at amino acid 217, or an indel that deleted the entire STPK domain. The three P. graminis f. sp. tritici race QCCJ-susceptible lines (Swiss landraces Hv489, Hv492, and Hv611) and the wild barley accession WBDC160 contain rpg5 alleles predicted to encode full-length proteins containing a nonsynonomous nucleotide substitution that results in the amino acid substitution E1287A. This amino acid substitution present in the uncharacterized C-terminal domain is not found in any resistant line and may be important to elicit the resistance reaction. These data suggest that rpg4-mediated resistance against many wheat stem rust pathogen races, including P. graminis f. sp. tritici race TTKSK, rely on the Rpg5 R gene; thus, rpg4- and Rpg5-mediated resistance rely on a common R gene and should not be considered completely distinct. The data also determined that Rpg5 gene-specific molecular markers could be used to detect rpg4-mediated wheat stem rust resistance for marker-assisted selection.
Challenge by a nonadapted powdery mildew fungal pathogen leads to the formation of a local cell-wall apposition (papilla) beneath the point of attempted penetration. Several plasma membrane (PM) proteins with opposing roles in powdery mildew infection, including Arabidopsis thaliana PENETRATION1 (PEN1) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) MILDEW RESISTANCE LOCUS O (MLO), are localized to the site of powdery mildew attack. PEN1 contributes to penetration resistance to nonadapted powdery mildews, whereas MLO is a susceptibility factor required by adapted powdery mildew pathogens for host cell entry. Our previous studies have demonstrated that the vesicle and endosomal trafficking inhibitors, brefeldin A and wortmannin, have opposite effects on the penetration rates of adapted and nonadapted powdery mildews on grapevine. These findings prompted us to study the pathogen-induced intracellular trafficking of grapevine variants of MLO and PEN1. We first identified grapevine (Vitis vinifera) VvPEN1 and VvMLO orthologs that rescue Arabidopsis Atpen1 and Atmlo2 mlo6 mlo12 null mutants, respectively. By using endomembrane trafficking inhibitors in combination with fluorescence microscopy, we demonstrate that VvMLO3/VvMLO4 and VvPEN1 are co-trafficked together from the PM to the site of powdery mildew challenge. This focal accumulation of VvMLO3/VvMLO4 and VvPEN1 to the site of attack seems to be required for their opposing functions during powdery mildew attack, because their subcellular localization is correlated with the outcome of attempted powdery mildew penetration.
The barley genome encodes a family of 10 metallothioneins (MTs) that have not previously been subject to extensive gene expression profiling. We show here that expression of MT1a, MT2b1, MT2b2 and MT3 in barley leaves increased more than 50-fold during the first 10 d after germination. Concurrently, the root-specific gene MT1b1 was 1000-fold up-regulated. Immunolocalizations provided the first evidence for accumulation of MT1a and MT2a proteins in planta, with correlation to transcript levels. In developing grains, MT2a and MT4 expression increased 4- and 300-fold over a 28-day-period after pollination. However, among the MT grain transcripts MT2c was the most abundant, whereas MT4 was the least abundant. Excess Cu up-regulated three out of the six MTs expressed in leaves of young barley plants. In contrast, most MTs were down-regulated by excess Zn or Cd. Zn starvation led to up-regulation of MT1a, whereas Cu starvation up-regulated MT2a, which has two copper-responsive elements in the promoter. Arabidopsis lines constitutively overexpressing barley MT2a showed increased sensitivity to excess Cd and Zn but no Cu-induced response. We suggest that barley MTs are differentially involved in intracellular homeostasis of essential metal ions and that a subset of barley MTs is specifically involved in Cu detoxification.
Aluminium is toxic in acid soils because the soluble Al(3+) inhibits root growth. A mechanism of Al(3+) tolerance discovered in many plant species involves the release of organic anions from root apices. The Al(3+)-activated release of citrate from the root apices of Al(3+)-tolerant genotypes of barley is controlled by a MATE gene named HvAACT1 that encodes a citrate transport protein located on the plasma membrane. The aim of this study was to investigate whether expressing HvAACT1 with a constitutive promoter in barley and wheat can increase citrate efflux and Al(3+) tolerance of these important cereal species. HvAACT1 was over-expressed in wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) using the maize ubiquitin promoter. Root apices of transgenic and control lines were analysed for HvAACT1 expression and organic acid efflux. The Al(3+) tolerance of transgenic and control lines was assessed in both hydroponic solution and acid soil. Increased HvAACT1 expression in both cereal species was associated with increased citrate efflux from root apices and enhanced Al(3+) tolerance, thus demonstrating that biotechnology can complement traditional breeding practices to increase the Al(3+) tolerance of important crop plants.
Treatment of plants with thiamine (Vitamin B1) has before been shown to activate plant defence against microorganisms. Here, we have studied the effects of thiamine treatments of plants on aphid reproduction and behaviour. The work was mainly carried out with bird cherry-oat aphid (Rhopalosiphum padi L.) on barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Aphid population growth and aphid acceptance on plants grown from seeds soaked in a 150μM thiamine solution were reduced to ca. 60% of that on control plants. R. padi life span and the total number of offspring were reduced on barley plants treated with thiamine. Healthy aphids and aphids infected with the R. padi virus were similarly affected. Spraying or addition of thiamine at 150μM to nutrient solutions likewise resulted in reduced aphid population growth to ca. 60%, as did plant exposure to thiamine odour at 4mM. Thiamine treatments resulted in reduced aphid population growth also when tested with grain aphid (Sitobion avenae F.) on barley and pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum H.) on pea (Pisum sativum L.). There was no direct effect of thiamine on aphid reproduction or thiamine odour on aphid behaviour, as evaluated using artificial diets and by olfactometer tests, respectively. Two gene sequences regulated by salicylic acid showed higher transcript abundance and one gene sequence regulated by methyl jasmonate showed lower transcript abundance in thiamine-treated plants but not in control plants after aphid infestation. These results suggest that the aphid antibiosis and antixenosis effects may be related to priming of defence, but more studies are needed to explain the effects against aphids.
Fusarium pathogens are among the most damaging pathogens of cereals. These pathogens have the ability to attack the roots, seedlings, and flowering heads of barley and wheat plants with disease, resulting in yield loss and head blight disease and also resulting in the contamination of grain with mycotoxins harmful to human and animal health. There is increasing evidence that brassinosteroid (BR) hormones play an important role in plant defense against both biotic and abiotic stress agents and this study set out to determine if and how BR might affect Fusarium diseases of barley. Application of the epibrassinolide (epiBL) to heads of 'Lux' barley reduced the severity of Fusarium head blight (FHB) caused by Fusarium culmorum by 86% and reduced the FHB-associated loss in grain weight by 33%. Growth of plants in soil amended with epiBL resulted in a 28 and 35% reduction in Fusarium seedling blight (FSB) symptoms on the Lux and 'Akashinriki' barley, respectively. Microarray analysis was used to determine whether growth in epiBL-amended soil changed the transcriptional profile in stem base tissue during the early stages of FSB development. At 24 and 48 h post F. culmorum inoculation, there were 146 epiBL-responsive transcripts, the majority being from the 48-h time point (n = 118). Real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis validated the results for eight transcripts, including five defense genes. The results of gene expression studies show that chromatin remodeling, hormonal signaling, photosynthesis, and pathogenesis-related genes are activated in plants as a result of growth in epiBL.
Vernalization-2 (Vrn-2) is the major flowering repressor in temperate cereals. It is only expressed under long days in wild-type plants. We used two day-neutral (photoperiod insensitive) mutations that allow rapid flowering in short or long days to investigate the day length control of Vrn-2. The barley (Hordeum vulgare) early maturity8 (eam8) mutation affects the barley ELF3 gene. eam8 mutants disrupt the circadian clock resulting in elevated expression of Ppd-H1 and the floral activator HvFT1 under short or long days. When eam8 was crossed into a genetic background with a vernalization requirement Vrn-2 was expressed under all photoperiods and the early flowering phenotype was partially repressed in unvernalized (UV) plants, likely due to competition between the constitutively active photoperiod pathway and the repressing effect of Vrn-2. We also investigated the wheat (Triticum aestivum) Ppd-D1a mutation. This differs from eam8 in causing elevated levels of Ppd-1 and TaFT1 expression without affecting the circadian clock. We used genotypes that differed in "short-day vernalization". Short days were effective in promoting flowering in individuals wild type at Ppd-D1, but not in individuals that carry the Ppd-D1a mutation. The latter showed Vrn-2 expression in short days. In summary, eam8 and Ppd-D1a mimic long days in terms of photoperiod response, causing Vrn-2 to become aberrantly expressed (in short days). As Ppd-D1a does not affect the circadian clock, this also shows that clock regulation of Vrn-2 operates indirectly through one or more downstream genes, one of which may be Ppd-1.
The dynamics of posttranslational histone modifications in relation to nuclear architecture has been analyzed during pollen development in Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Igri. Notwithstanding the asymmetry of cytokinesis associated with pollen mitosis I, immunolabeling revealed that the vegetative and generative nuclei initially display identical chromatin modification patterns. Yet, differential chromatin modification patterns between vegetative and generative nuclei emerge with the development of conspicuous differences in nuclear morphology as visualized by 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining. The temporal and spatial distribution of most histone modifications observed is in agreement with reduced gene activity in the generative nucleus and increased expression in the vegetative nucleus as indicated by immunolabeling of active RNA polymerase II. Signals of trimethylation of histone H3 lysine 27 proved to be particularly enriched in euchromatic domains of subtelomeric regions. In the context of nuclear differentiation in bicellular pollen, this modification became restricted to the vegetative nucleus, indicating a role in activating rather than suppressing gene expression. The presence of acetylated histone H3 at lysine 9 in the cytoplasm of the generative cell is indicative of a more complex, still unknown function of this particular modification.
Photoperiodic flowering is a major factor determining crop performance and is controlled by interactions between environmental signals and the circadian clock. We proposed Hvlux1, an ortholog of the Arabidopsis circadian gene LUX ARRHYTHMO, as a candidate underlying the early maturity 10 (eam10) locus in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). The link between eam10 and Hvlux1 was discovered using high-throughput sequencing of enriched libraries and segregation analysis. We conducted functional, phylogenetic, and diversity studies of eam10 and HvLUX1 to understand the genetic control of photoperiod response in barley and to characterize the evolution of LUX-like genes within barley and across monocots and eudicots. We demonstrate that eam10 causes circadian defects and interacts with the photoperiod response gene Ppd-H1 to accelerate flowering under long and short days. The results of phylogenetic and diversity analyses indicate that HvLUX1 was under purifying selection, duplicated at the base of the grass clade, and diverged independently of LUX-like genes in other plant lineages. Taken together, these findings contribute to improved understanding of the barley circadian clock, its interaction with the photoperiod pathway, and evolution of circadian systems in barley and across monocots and eudicots.
The root architecture of higher plants is amazingly diverse. In this review, we compare the lateral root developmental programme in cereals and Arabidopsis thaliana. In cereals, cells in the endodermis are recruited to form the new root cap and overlying cortical cells divide to facilitate the emergence of the lateral root primordium. The TIR1/ABF2 auxin receptors and the AUX/IAA, ARF, and LBD transcriptional regulatory proteins are conserved in cereals and Arabidopsis. Several elements of this regulatory network are common to lateral and crown roots in cereals. Also, the ground meristem from which crown roots differentiate shows similarities with the root pericycle. Studies in cereals promise to give complementary insights into the mechanisms regulating the development of post-embryonic roots in plants.
The Lr34 gene encodes an ABC transporter and has provided wheat with durable, broad-spectrum resistance against multiple fungal pathogens for over 100 years. Because barley does not have an Lr34 ortholog, we expressed Lr34 in barley to investigate its potential as a broad-spectrum resistance resource in another grass species. We found that introduction of the genomic Lr34 sequence confers resistance against barley leaf rust and barley powdery mildew, two pathogens specific for barley but not virulent on wheat. In addition, the barley lines showed enhanced resistance against wheat stem rust. Transformation with the Lr34 cDNA or the genomic susceptible Lr34 allele did not result in increased resistance. Unlike wheat, where Lr34-conferred resistance is associated with adult plants, the genomic Lr34 transgenic barley lines exhibited multipathogen resistance in seedlings. These transgenic barley lines also developed leaf tip necrosis (LTN) in young seedlings, which correlated with an up-regulation of senescence marker genes and several pathogenesis-related (PR) genes. In wheat, transcriptional expression of Lr34 is highest in adult plants and correlates with increased resistance and LTN affecting the last emerging leaf. The severe phenotype of transgenic Lr34 barley resulted in reduced plant growth and total grain weight. These results demonstrate that Lr34 provides enhanced multipathogen resistance early in barley plant development and implies the conservation of the substrate and mechanism of the LR34 transporter and its molecular action between wheat and barley. With controlled gene expression, the use of Lr34 may be valuable for many cereal breeding programmes, particularly given its proven durability.
Mitogen activated protein kinase (MAP kinase) signal transduction pathways are important eukaryotic mechanisms for regulating cellular responses to stress. The objective of this work was to investigate the role of the barley MAP kinase HvMPK4 (a homologue of the Arabidopsis MAP kinase AtMPK1) in the plant response to biotic and abiotic stress. Transgenic barley plants bearing antisense or overexpression constructs for HvMPK4 were produced, and RNA blot analysis showed that HvMPK4 gene expression was much reduced in the antisense lines and approximately double in the overexpression lines. Three independent lines of each construct were tested for their response to a fungal pathogen and to salt treatment. The antisense lines were more resistant to the hemibiotrophic fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea, and showed enhanced levels of salicylic acid (SA) and of hydrogen peroxide following infection; HvMPK4 is thus a negative regulator of SA production post infection. The overexpression lines had constitutively higher levels of jasmonic acid and enhanced levels of ethylene following infection but were not more resistant to the pathogen. However the overexpression lines showed greater tolerance to abiotic stress, as following 2 weeks of salt treatment these lines showed less reduction in fresh and dry weight, accumulated less salt in the leaves and contained enhanced levels of the osmoprotectant amino acid, proline.
Barley powdery mildew, Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh), is an obligate biotrophic ascomycete fungal pathogen that can grow and reproduce only on living cells of wild or domesticated barley (Hordeum sp.). Domestication and deployment of resistant barley cultivars by humans selected for amplification of Bgh isolates with different virulence combinations. We sequenced the genomes of two European Bgh isolates, A6 and K1, for comparative analysis with the reference genome of isolate DH14. This revealed a mosaic genome structure consisting of large isolate-specific DNA blocks with either high or low SNP densities. Some of the highly polymorphic blocks likely accumulated SNPs for over 10,000 years, well before the domestication of barley. These isolate-specific blocks of alternating monomorphic and polymorphic regions imply an exceptionally large standing genetic variation in the Bgh population and might be generated and maintained by rare outbreeding and frequent clonal reproduction. RNA-sequencing experiments with isolates A6 and K1 during four early stages of compatible and incompatible interactions on leaves of partially immunocompromised Arabidopsis mutants revealed a conserved Bgh transcriptional program during pathogenesis compared with the natural host barley despite ~200 million years of reproductive isolation of these hosts. Transcripts encoding candidate-secreted effector proteins are massively induced in successive waves. A specific decrease in candidate-secreted effector protein transcript abundance in the incompatible interaction follows extensive transcriptional reprogramming of the host transcriptome and coincides with the onset of localized host cell death, suggesting a host-inducible defense mechanism that targets fungal effector secretion or production.
Previously, we identified >1,500 genes that were induced by high salt stress in sheepgrass (Leymus chinensis, Gramineae: Triticeae) when comparing the changes in their transcription levels in response to high salt stress by next-generation sequencing. Among the identified genes, a gene of unknown function (designated as Leymus chinensis salt-induced 1, LcSAIN1) showed a high sequence identity to its homologs from wheat, Hordeum vulgare and Oryza sativa, but LcSAIN1 and its homologs produce hypothetical proteins with no conserved functional domains. Transcription of the LcSAIN1 gene was up-regulated by various stresses. The overexpression of LcSAIN1 in Arabidopsis and rice increased the greening rate of cotyledons, the fresh weight, root elongation, plant height and the plant survival rate when compared with control plants and conferred a tolerance against salt stress. Subcellular localization analysis indicated that LcSAIN1 is localized predominantly in the nucleus. Our results show that the LcSAIN1 gene might play an important positive modulation role in increasing the expression of transcription factors (MYB2 and DREB2A) and functional genes (P5CS and RAB18) in transgenic plants under salt stress and that it augments stress tolerance through the accumulation of compatible solutes (proline and soluble sugar) and the alleviation of changes in reactive oxygen species. The LcSAIN1 gene could be a potential resource for engineering salinity tolerance in important crop species.
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major limiting factor for plant production in acid soils. Wild barley germplasm is rich in genetic diversity and may provide elite genes for crop Al tolerance improvement. The hydroponic-experiments were performed to compare proteomic and transcriptional characteristics of two contrasting Tibetan wild barley genotypes Al- resistant/tolerant XZ16 and Al-sensitive XZ61 as well as Al-resistant cv. Dayton. Results showed that XZ16 had less Al uptake and translocation than XZ61 and Dayton under Al stress. Thirty-five Al-tolerance/resistance-associated proteins were identified and categorized mainly in metabolism, energy, cell growth/division, protein biosynthesis, protein destination/storage, transporter, signal transduction, disease/defense, etc. Among them, 30 were mapped on barley genome, with 16 proteins being exclusively up-regulated by Al stress in XZ16, including 4 proteins (S-adenosylmethionine-synthase 3, ATP synthase beta subunit, triosephosphate isomerase, Bp2A) specifically expressed in XZ16 but not Dayton. The findings highlighted the significance of specific-proteins associated with Al tolerance, and verified Tibetan wild barley as a novel genetic resource for Al tolerance.
Granule Bound Starch Synthase I (GBSS I) encoded by the waxy gene plays an important role in accumulating amylose during the development of starch granules in barley. In this study, we isolated and characterized waxy alleles of three waxy (GSHO 908, GSHO 1828 and NA 40) and two non-waxy barley accessions (PI 483237 and CIho 15773), estimated the expression patterns of waxy genes via Real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), investigated promoter activity by analyzing promoter-GUS expression, and examined possible effects of waxy alleles on starch granule morphology in barley accessions by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). A 193-bp insertion in intron 1, a 15-bp insertion in the coding region, and some single nucleotide polymorphic sites were detected in the waxy barley accessions. In addition, a 397-bp deletion containing the TATA box, transcription starting point, exon 1 and partial intron 1 were also identified in the waxy barley accessions. RT-qPCR analysis showed that waxy accessions had lower waxy expression levels than those of non-waxy accessions. Transient expression assays showed that GUS activity driven by the 1,029-bp promoter of the non-waxy accessions was stronger than that driven by the 822-bp promoter of the waxy accessions. SEM revealed no apparent differences of starch granule morphology between waxy and non-waxy accessions. Our results showed that the 397-bp deletion identified in the waxy barley accessions is likely responsible for the reduction of waxy transcript, leading to lower concentrations of GBSS I protein thus lower amylose content.
The PLAnt co-EXpression database (PLANEX) is a new internet-based database for plant gene analysis. PLANEX (http://planex.plantbioinformatics.org) contains publicly available GeneChip data obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) of the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI). PLANEX is a genome-wide co-expression database, which allows for the functional identification of genes from a wide variety of experimental designs. It can be used for the characterization of genes for functional identification and analysis of a gene's dependency among other genes. Gene co-expression databases have been developed for other species, but gene co-expression information for plants is currently limited. We constructed PLANEX as a list of co-expressed genes and functional annotations for Arabidopsis thaliana, Glycine max, Hordeum vulgare, Oryza sativa, Solanum lycopersicum, Triticum aestivum, Vitis vinifera and Zea mays. PLANEX reports Pearson's correlation coefficients (PCCs; r-values) that distribute from a gene of interest for a given microarray platform set corresponding to a particular organism. To support PCCs, PLANEX performs an enrichment test of Gene Ontology terms and Cohen's Kappa value to compare functional similarity for all genes in the co-expression database. PLANEX draws a cluster network with co-expressed genes, which is estimated using the k-mean method. To construct PLANEX, a variety of datasets were interpreted by the IBM supercomputer Advanced Interactive eXecutive (AIX) in a supercomputing center. PLANEX provides a correlation database, a cluster network and an interpretation of enrichment test results for eight plant species. A typical co-expressed gene generates lists of co-expression data that contain hundreds of genes of interest for enrichment analysis. Also, co-expressed genes can be identified and cataloged in terms of comparative genomics by using the 'Co-expression gene compare' feature. This type of analysis will help interpret experimental data and determine whether there is a common term among genes of interest.
The sequences of x-type high-molecular-weight glutenin promoter (x-HGP) from 21 diploid Triticeae species were cloned and sequenced. The lengths of x-HGP varied from 897 to 955 bp, and there are 329 variable sites including 105 singleton sites and 224 polymorphic sites. Genetic distances of pairwise X-HGP sequences ranged from 0.30 to 16.40% within 21 species and four outgroup species of Hordeum. All five recognized regulatory elements emerged and showed higher conservation in the x-HGP of 21 Triticeae species. Most variations were distributed in the regions among or between regulatory elements. A 22 bp and 50 bp insertions which were the copy of adjacent region with minor change, were found in the x-HGP of Ae. speltoides and Ps. Huashanica, and could be regarded as genome specific indels. The phylogeny of media-joining network and neighbour-joining tree both supported the topology were composed of three sperate clusters. Especially, the cluster I comprising the x-HGP sequences of Aegilops, Triticum, Henrardia, Agropyron and Taeniatherum was highly supporting by both network and NJ tree. As conferring to higher level and temporal and spatial expression, x-HGP can used as the source of promoter for constructing transgenic plants which allow endosperm-specific expression of exogenous gene on higher level. In addition, the x-HGP has enough conservation and variation; so it should be valuable in phylogenetic analyses of Triticeae family members.
The Arabidopsis gene DOG1 (AtDOG1) functions in seed dormancy and in sugar signaling. Little is known about the structural and functional features of plant genes homologous to AtDOG1, except for one type (clade 1) of Triticeae AtDOG1-like genes, which was previously demonstrated to be functionally orthologous to AtDOG1. Here, through phylogenetic, structural, and functional analyses of cereal AtDOG1-like genes, we characterized their features: these genes exist as a gene family that can be classified into five distinct clades (1-5). Of these, AtDOG1-like genes in clades 1-4 have a similar architecture to AtDOG1: they encode proteins with three conserved regions. In contrast, the clade 5 genes are distinct; their encoded proteins lack these conserved regions, but harbor domains that interact with DNA. Ectopic expression of the cereal AtDOG1-like genes of clades 2-4 in Arabidopsis demonstrated that like the clade 1 genes, they performed the same function as AtDOG1. The correlation between the depth of seed dormancy and the efficiency of sugar signaling in transgenic Arabidopsis conferred by genes in clades 1-4 suggests a close link in the underlying mechanisms between the seed dormancy and sugar signaling functions of AtDOG1.
To elucidate genetic mechanisms of host species specificity between graminicolous anthracnose fungi and gramineous plants, infection assays were performed with a Sorghum isolate (Colletotrichum sublineolum), a Digitaria isolate (C. hanaui), a Polypogon isolate (C. cereale), and an Avena isolate (C. cereale). They were specifically virulent on the plants from which they were isolated. When 72 wheat lines were inoculated with an unadapted isolate from Asia Minor bluegrass (Cgp29), however, some exceptional cultivars were recognized. Although most cultivars were resistant to Cgp29, 'Hope' was susceptible. In F2 populations derived from crosses between three resistant cultivars-'Norin 4' (N4), 'Chinese Spring' (CS), and 'Shin-chunaga' (Sch)-and the susceptible Hope, resistant and susceptible seedlings segregated in a 3:1 ratio, suggesting that a major gene is involved in the resistance of each cultivar to Cgp29. In F2 populations derived from crosses between the three resistant cultivars, all seedlings were resistant, suggesting that these three cultivars carry the same gene. This resistance gene was designated as "resistance to Colletotrichum cereale 1" (Rcc1). Analysis with the CS-Hope chromosome substitution lines and molecular mapping revealed that Rcc1 was located on the long arm of chromosome 5A. Cytologically, Rcc1 was mainly associated with hypersensitive reaction. These results suggest that major genes similar to those controlling cultivar specificity are involved in the resistance of wheat against the unadapted isolate of C. cereale.
Legumains or vacuolar processing enzymes are cysteine peptidases (C13 family, clan CD) with increasingly recognized physiological significance in plants. They have previously been classified as seed and vegetative legumains. In this work, the entire barley legumain family is described. The eight members of this family belong to the two phylogenetic clades in which the angiosperm legumains are distributed. An in-depth molecular and functional characterization of a barley legumain from each group, HvLeg-2 and HvLeg-4, was performed. Both legumains contained a signal peptide and were located in the endoplasmic reticulum, were expressed in seeds and vegetative tissues, and when expressed as recombinant proteins showed legumain and caspase proteolytic activities. However, the role of each protein seemed to be different in their target tissues. HvLeg-2 responded in leaves to biotic and abiotic stimuli, such as salicylic acid, jasmonic acid, nitric oxide, abscisic acid, and aphid infestation, and was induced by gibberellic acid in seeds, where the protein is able to degrade storage globulins. HvLeg-4 responded in leaves to wounding, nitric oxide, and abscisic acid treatments, and had an unknown role in the germinating seed. From these results, a multifunctional role was assumed for these two phylogenetically distant legumains, achieving different physiological functions in both seed and vegetative tissues.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is one of the most important cereals in many developing countries where drought stress considerably diminishes agricultural production. Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs EC 2.5.1.18) are multifunctional enzymes which play a crucial role in cellular detoxification and oxidative stress tolerance. In this study, 84 GST genes were identified in barley by a comprehensive in silico approach. Sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis grouped these HvGST proteins in eight classes. The largest numbers of the HvGST genes (50) were included in the Tau class followed by 21 genes in Phi, five in Zeta, two in DHAR, two in EF1G, two in Lambda, and one each in TCHQD and Theta classes. Phylogenetic analysis of the putative GSTs from Arabidopsis, rice, and barley indicated that major functional diversification within the GST family predated the monocot/dicot divergence. However, intra-specious duplication seems to be common. Expression patterns of five GST genes from Phi and Tau classes were investigated in three barley genotypes (Yusof [drought-tolerant], Moroc9-75 [drought-sensitive], and HS1 [wild ecotype]) under control and drought-stressed conditions, during the vegetative stage. All investigated genes were up-regulated significantly under drought stress and/or showed a higher level of transcripts in the tolerant cultivar. Additionally, GST enzyme activity was superior in Yusof and induced in the extreme-drought-treated leaves, while it was not changed in Moroc9-75 under drought conditions. Moreover, the lowest and highest levels of lipid peroxidation were observed in the Yusof and Moroc9-75 cultivars, respectively. Based on the achieved results, detoxification and antioxidant activity of GSTs might be considered an important factor in the drought tolerance of barley genotypes for further investigations.
HvHMA2 is a plasma membrane P1B-ATPase from barley that functions in Zn/Cd root-to-shoot transport. To assess the usefulness of HvHMA2 for modifying the metal content in aerial plant parts, it was expressed in tobacco under the CaMV35S promoter. Transformation with HvHMA2 did not produce one unique pattern of Zn and Cd accumulation; instead it depended on external metal supply. Thus Zn and Cd root-to-shoot translocation was facilitated, but not at all applied Zn/Cd concentrations. Metal uptake was restricted in HvHMA2-transformed plants and the level in the shoot was not enhanced. It was shown that HvHMA2 localizes to the plasma membrane of tobacco cells, and overloads the apoplast with Zn, which could explain the overall decrease in metal uptake observed. Despite the lower levels in the shoot, HvHMA2 transformants showed increased Zn sensitivity. Moreover, introduction of HvHMA2 into tobacco interfered with Fe metabolism and Fe accumulation was modified in HvHMA2-transformants in a Zn- and Cd-concentration dependent manner. The results indicate that ectopic expression of the export protein HvHMA2 in tobacco interferes with tobacco metal Zn-Cd-Fe cross-homeostasis, inducing internal mechanisms regulating metal uptake and tolerance.
The spectrum of B-hordein prolamins and genes in the single barley cultivar Barke is described from an in silico analysis of 1452 B-hordein ESTs and available genomic DNA. Eleven unique B-hordein proteins are derived from EST contigs. Ten contigs encode apparent full-length B-hordeins and the eleventh contains a premature stop codon that will lead to a truncated B-hordein. The 11 sequences are placed within the two previously described classes, i.e., the B1- and B3-type B-hordeins. The number of ESTs assigned to each sequence is used as an estimate of relative gene transcription and expression. Three of the sequences account for 79% of the total ESTs, with one sequence comprises 32% of the total ESTs and has a variant C-terminus caused by an undefined sequence change history near the 3' coding terminus. The 70× difference in EST distribution among sequences points to the importance of understanding differential rates of expression within closely related gene families. Analysis of available genomic sequences confirms the EST assembly and reveals one full-length and two partial sequences of pseudogenes as evidenced by no matching ESTs for the sequences and premature stop codons and frame shifts.
Leymus mollis (Triticeae; Poaceae) is a useful genetic resource for wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) breeding via wide hybridization to introduce its chromosomes and integrate its useful traits into wheat. Leymus mollis is highly tolerant to abiotic stresses such as drought and salinity and resistant to various diseases, but the genetic mechanisms controlling its physiological tolerance remain largely unexplored. We identified and cloned an allene oxide cyclase (AOC) gene from L. mollis that was strongly expressed under salt stress. AOC is involved in biosynthesis of jasmonic acid, an important signaling compound that mediates a wide range of adaptive responses. LmAOC cDNA consisted of 717 bp, coding for a protein with 238 amino acids that was highly similar to AOCs from barley (Hordeum vulgare) and other monocots. Subcellular localization using Nicotiana benthamiana confirmed it as a chloroplast-localized protein. LmAOC was found to be a multiple-copy gene, and that some copies were conserved and efficiently expressed in wheat-Leymus chromosome addition lines. LmAOC expression was upregulated under drought, heat, cold and wounding stresses, and by jasmonic acid and abscisic acid. Our results suggest that LmAOC plays an important role in L. mollis adaptation to abiotic stresses and it could be useful for wheat improvement.
In order to reduce the cost of bioethanol production from lignocellulosic biomass, we conferred the ability to ferment cellulosic materials directly on Zymobacter palmae by co-expressing foreign endoglucanase and β-glucosidase genes. Z. palmae is a novel ethanol-fermenting bacterium capable of utilizing a broad range of sugar substrates, but not cellulose. Therefore, the six genes encoding the cellulolytic enzymes (CenA, CenB, CenD, CbhA, CbhB, and Cex) from Cellulomonas fimi were introduced and expressed in Z. palmae. Of these cellulolytic enzyme genes cloned, CenA degraded carboxymethylcellulose and phosphoric acid-swollen cellulose (PASC) efficiently. The extracellular CenA catalyzed the hydrolysis of barley β-glucan and PASC to liberate soluble cello-oligosaccharides, indicating that CenA is the most suitable enzyme for cellulose degradation among those cellulolytic enzymes expressed in Z. palmae. Furthermore, the cenA gene and β-glucosidase gene (bgl) from Ruminococcus albus were co-expressed in Z. palmae. Of the total endoglucanase and β-glucosidase activities, 57.1 and 18.1 % were localized in the culture medium of the strain. The genetically engineered strain completely saccharified and fermented 20 g/l barley β-glucan to ethanol within 84 h, producing 79.5 % of the theoretical yield. Thus, the production and secretion of CenA and BGL enabled Z. palmae to efficiently ferment a water-soluble cellulosic polysaccharide to ethanol.
A precise regulation of flowering time is critical for plant reproductive success, and therefore, a better understanding of the natural variation in genes regulating the initiation of the reproductive phase is required to develop well-adapted varieties. In both monocot and dicot species, the FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) is a central integrator of seasonal signals perceived by the leaves. The encoded mobile protein (florigen) is transmitted to the apical meristem where it induces flowering. The FT homolog in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), designated HvFT1, was shown to correspond to the vernalization locus VRN-H3, and natural alleles for spring and winter growth habit were identified. In this study, we demonstrate that the HvFT1 allele present in the barley genetic stock (BGS213) associated with a dominant spring growth habit carries at least four identical copies of HvFT1, whereas most barley varieties have a single copy. Increased copy number is associated with earlier transcriptional up-regulation of HvFT1 and a spring growth habit. This allele is epistatic to winter alleles for VRN-H1 and VRN-H2. Among accessions with one HvFT1 copy, haplotype differences in the HvFT1 promoter and first intron are also associated with differences in flowering time, which are modulated by genetic background. These different HvFT1 alleles can be used to develop barley varieties adapted to different or changing environments. Our results, together with studies of other wheat and barley flowering genes, show that copy number variation plays an important role in the regulation of developmental processes in the temperate cereals.
Transcriptional activation of the VERNALIZATION1 gene mediates the acceleration of flowering by prolonged cold (vernalization) in temperate cereals. This study examined the earliest stages of the transcriptional response of VRN1 to low temperatures. Time-course analyses, using a sensitive quantitative PCR assay, showed that in sprouting barley seedlings VRN1 transcripts begin to accumulate within 24 hours of the onset of cold. The kinetics of the initial transcriptional response of VRN1 to cold was similar to the cold-induced genes DEHYDRIN5 (DHN5) and COLD REGULATED 14B (COR14B), but occurred at lower levels compared to cold acclimation genes or the response to longer cold treatments. Temperatures between 15 and -2 °C induced expression of VRN1 within 24 hours, with a maximal response observed between 2 and -2 °C. Transcriptional induction was also observed in undifferentiated callus cells. There were significant increases in histone acetylation levels at the VRN1 locus in response to 24-hour cold treatment. Sodium butyrate, a histone deacetylation inhibitor, triggered an increase in histone acetylation at VRN1 chromatin and elevated VRN1 transcript levels. The transcriptional response of VRN1 to short-term cold treatment was examined in near-isogenic lines that have different VRN1 genotypes, showing that an allele of the barley VRN1 gene with an insertion in the first intron and high basal expression levels has a reduced transcriptional response to short term cold treatment. This study suggests that low-temperature induction of VRN1 is a cellular response to cold triggered by the same mechanisms that mediate low-temperature induction of cold acclimation genes.
The enhancement of winter hardiness is one of the most important tasks facing breeders of winter cereals. For this reason, the examination of those regulatory genes involved in the cold acclimation processes is of central importance. The aim of the present work was the functional analysis of two wheat CBF transcription factors, namely TaCBF14 and TaCBF15, shown by previous experiments to play a role in the development of frost tolerance. These genes were isolated from winter wheat and then transformed into spring barley, after which the effect of the transgenes on low temperature stress tolerance was examined. Two different types of frost tests were applied; plants were hardened at low temperature before freezing, or plants were subjected to frost without a hardening period. The analysis showed that TaCBF14 and TaCBF15 transgenes improve the frost tolerance to such an extent that the transgenic lines were able to survive freezing temperatures several degrees lower than that which proved lethal for the wild-type spring barley. After freezing, lower ion leakage was measured in transgenic leaves, showing that these plants were less damaged by the frost. Additionally, a higher Fv/Fm parameter was determined, indicating that photosystem II worked more efficiently in the transgenics. Gene expression studies showed that HvCOR14b, HvDHN5, and HvDHN8 genes were up-regulated by TaCBF14 and TaCBF15. Beyond that, transgenic lines exhibited moderate retarded development, slower growth, and minor late flowering compared with the wild type, with enhanced transcript level of the gibberellin catabolic HvGA2ox5 gene.
Boron stress is an environmental factor affecting plant development and production. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have been found to be involved in several plant processes such as growth regulation and stress responses. In this study, miRNAs associated with boron stress were identified and characterized in barley. miRNA profiles were also comparatively analyzed between root and leave samples. A total of 31 known and 3 new miRNAs were identified in barley; 25 of them were found to respond to boron treatment. Several miRNAs were expressed in a tissue specific manner; for example, miR156d, miR171a, miR397, and miR444a were only detected in leaves. Additionally, a total of 934 barley transcripts were found to be specifically targeted and degraded by miRNAs. In silico analysis of miRNA target genes demonstrated that many miRNA targets are conserved transcription factors such as Squamosa promoter-binding protein, Auxin response factor (ARF), and the MYB transcription factor family. A majority of these targets were responsible for plant growth and response to environmental changes. We also propose that some of the miRNAs in barley such as miRNA408 might play critical roles against boron exposure. In conclusion, barley may use several pathways and cellular processes targeted by miRNAs to cope with boron stress.
The role of potassium (K(+)) transporters in high- and low-affinity K(+) uptake was examined in roots of intact barley (Hordeum vulgare) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants by use of (42)K radiotracing, electrophysiology, pharmacology, and mutant analysis. Comparisons were made between results from barley and five genotypes of Arabidopsis, including single and double knockout mutants for the high-affinity transporter, AtHAK5, and the Shaker-type channel, AtAKT1. In Arabidopsis, steady-state K(+) influx at low external K(+) concentration ([K(+)]ext = 22.5 µm) was predominantly mediated by AtAKT1 when high-affinity transport was inhibited by ammonium, whereas in barley, by contrast, K(+) channels could not operate below 100 µm. Withdrawal of ammonium resulted in an immediate and dramatic stimulation of K(+) influx in barley, indicating a shift from active to passive K(+) uptake at low [K(+)]ext and yielding fluxes as high as 36 µmol g (root fresh weight)(-1) h(-1) at 5 mm [K(+)]ext, among the highest transporter-mediated K(+) fluxes hitherto reported. This ammonium-withdrawal effect was also established in all Arabidopsis lines (the wild types, atakt1, athak5, and athak5 atakt1) at low [K(+)]ext, revealing the concerted involvement of several transport systems. The ammonium-withdrawal effect coincided with a suppression of K(+) efflux and a significant hyperpolarization of the plasma membrane in all genotypes except athak5 atakt1, could be sustained over 24 h, and resulted in increased tissue K(+) accumulation. We discuss key differences and similarities in K(+) acquisition between two important model systems and reveal novel aspects of K(+) transport in planta.
Glaucousness is described as the scattering effect of visible light from wax deposited on the cuticle of plant aerial organs. In wheat, two dominant genes lead to non-glaucous phenotypes: Inhibitor of wax 1 (Iw1) and Iw2. The molecular mechanisms and the exact extent (beyond visual assessment) by which these genes affect the composition and quantity of cuticular wax is unclear. To describe the Iw1 locus we used a genetic approach with detailed biochemical characterization of wax compounds. Using synteny and a large number of F2 gametes, Iw1 was fine-mapped to a sub-cM genetic interval on wheat chromosome arm 2BS, which includes a single collinear gene from the corresponding Brachypodium and rice physical maps. The major components of flag leaf and peduncle cuticular waxes included primary alcohols, β-diketones and n-alkanes. Small amounts of C19-C27 alkyl and methylalkylresorcinols that have not previously been described in wheat waxes were identified. Using six pairs of BC2 F3 near-isogenic lines, we show that Iw1 inhibits the formation of β- and hydroxy-β-diketones in the peduncle and flag leaf blade cuticles. This inhibitory effect is independent of genetic background or tissue, and is accompanied by minor but consistent increases in n-alkanes and C24 primary alcohols. No differences were found in cuticle thickness and carbon isotope discrimination in near-isogenic lines differing at Iw1.
Several temperate cereals need vernalization to promote flowering. Little, however, is known about the vernalization-memory-related genes, and almost no comparative analysis has been performed. Here, RNA-Seq was used for transcriptome analysis in non-vernalized, vernalized and post-vernalized Brachypodium distachyon (L.) Beauv. seedlings. In total, the expression of 1,665 genes showed significant changes (fold change ≥4) in response to vernalization. Among them, 674 putative vernalization-memory-related genes with a constant response to vernalization were significantly enriched in transcriptional regulation and monooxygenase-mediated biological processes. Comparative analysis of vernalization-memory-related genes with barley demonstrated that the oxidative-stress response was the most conserved pathway between these two plant species. Moreover, Brachypodium preferred to regulate transcription and protein phosphorylation processes, while vernalization-memory-related genes, whose products are cytoplasmic membrane-bound-vesicle-located proteins, were preferred to be regulated in barley. Correlation analysis of the vernalization-related genes with barley revealed that the vernalization mechanism was conserved between these two plant species. In summary, vernalization, including its memory mechanism, is conserved between Brachypodium and barley, although several species-specific features also exist. The data reported here will provide primary resources for subsequent functional research in vernalization.
MYB family of transcription factors (TF) comprises one of the largest transcription factors in plants and is represented in all eukaryotes. They include highly conserved MYB repeats (1R, R2R3, 3R, and 4R) in the N-terminus. In addition to this, they have diverse C-terminal sequences which help the protein gain wide distinct functions, such as controlling development, secondary metabolism, hormonal regulation and response to biotic and abiotic stress. Stress-responsive roles of the MYB TFs were reported for drought, salt, wounding, cold, freezing, dehydration and osmotic stresses. This study describes the identification of barley R2R3-MYB TFs including their expression analysis in tissues under control and Boron (B) toxic conditions. Conserved motifs for MYB proteins were searched into barley full-transcriptome RNA-seq data and a total of 320 protein sequences were filtered as MYB TFs in which 51 of them corresponded to R2R3 MYB TFs. Using various bioinformatics tools, their conserved domain structures, chromosomal distributions, gene duplications, comparative functional analysis, as well as phylogenetic relations with Arabidopsis thaliana, were conducted. Beside the RNA-seq data-based expression pattern analysis of 51 R2R3 MYB TFs, quantitative analysis of selected R2R3 MYB TF genes was assessed in control and B-stressed root and leaf tissues. Critical B-induced R2R3 MYB TFs were identified. It was concluded that the results would be useful for functional characterizations of R2R3-type MYB transcription factors that are possibly involved in both B stress and divergent regulation mechanisms in plants.
The nucleotide binding domain and Leucine-rich repeat (NLR)-containing proteins in plants and animals mediate pathogen sensing inside host cells and mount innate immune responses against microbial pathogens. The barley (Hordeum vulgare) mildew A (MLA) locus encodes coiled-coil (CC)-type NLRs mediating disease resistance against the powdery mildew pathogen Blumeria graminis. Here, we report direct interactions between MLA and two antagonistically acting transcription factors, MYB6 and WRKY1. The N-terminal CC signaling domain of MLA interacts with MYB6 to stimulate its DNA binding activity. MYB6 functions as a positive regulator of basal and MLA-mediated immunity responses to B. graminis. MYB6 DNA binding is antagonized by direct association with WRKY1 repressor, which in turn also interacts with the MLA CC domain. The activated form of full-length MLA10 receptor is needed to release MYB6 activator from WRKY1 repression and to stimulate MYB6-dependent gene expression. This implies that, while sequestered by the WRKY1 repressor in the presence of the resting immune receptor, MYB6 acts as an immediate and positive postactivation signaling component of the active state of MLA during transcriptional reprogramming for innate immune responses.
Constitutive over-expression of the TaDREB3 gene in barley improved frost tolerance of transgenic plants at the vegetative stage of plant development, but leads to stunted phenotypes and 3- to 6-week delays in flowering compared to control plants. In this work, two cold-inducible promoters with contrasting properties, the WRKY71 gene promoter from rice and the Cor39 gene promoter from durum wheat, were applied to optimize expression of TaDREB3. The aim of the work was to increase plant frost tolerance and to decrease or prevent negative developmental phenotypes observed during constitutive expression of TaDREB3. The OsWRKY71 and TdCor39 promoters had low-to-moderate basal activity and were activated by cold treatment in leaves, stems and developing spikes of transgenic barley and rice. Expression of the TaDREB3 gene, driven by either of the tested promoters, led to a significant improvement in frost tolerance. The presence of the functional TaDREB3 protein in transgenic plants was confirmed by the detection of strong up-regulation of cold-responsive target genes. The OsWRKY71 promoter-driven TaDREB3 provides stronger activation of the same target genes than the TdCor39 promoter. Analysis of the development of transgenic plants in the absence of stress revealed small or no differences in plant characteristics and grain yield compared with wild-type plants. The WRKY71-TaDREB3 promoter-transgene combination appears to be a promising tool for the enhancement of cold and frost tolerance in crop plants but field evaluation will be needed to confirm that negative development phenotypes have been controlled.
Treatment of barley (Hordeum vulgare) seedlings with arsenite (AsIII) rapidly induced physiological and transcriptional changes characteristic of sulfur deficiency, even in plants replete with sulfur. AsIII and sulfur deficiency induced 5- to 20-fold increases in the three genes responsible for sulfate reduction. Both treatments also caused up-regulation of a sulfate transporter, but only in the case of sulfur deficiency was there an increase in sulfate influx. Longer-term changes included reduction in transfer of sulfur from roots to shoots and an increase in root growth relative to shoot growth. Genes involved in complexation and compartmentation of arsenic were up-regulated by AsIII, but not by sulfur deficiency. The rate at which arsenic accumulated appeared to be controlled by the rate of thiol synthesis. Over a range of AsIII concentrations and growth periods, the ratio of thiols to arsenic was always close to 3:1, which is consistent with the formation of a stable complex between three glutathione molecules per AsIII. The greater toxicity of arsenic under sulfur-limiting conditions is likely to be due to an intensification of sulfur deficiency as a result of thiol synthesis, rather than to a direct toxicity to metabolism. Because influx of AsIII was nearly 20-fold faster than the rate of synthesis of thiols, it is questionable whether this complexation strategy can be effective in preventing arsenic toxicity, unless arsenic uptake becomes limited by diffusive resistances in the rhizosphere.
Wall-associated receptor-like kinases (WAKs) are important candidates for directly linking the extracellular matrix with intracellular compartments and are involved in developmental processes and stress response. WAK gene family has been identified in plants such as Arabidopsis and rice. Here, we present a detailed analysis of the WAK1 gene from barley cv. Golden Promise, mapped to chromosome 5H. Three BAC clones corresponding to the WAK fragment were sequenced and the full-length WAK1 gene was characterized. The gene has three exons and two short introns with a coding region of 2,178 bp encoding a protein of 725 amino acids. A regulatory region was analyzed in -1,000 bp sequence upstream to start codon. Using conserved domains database and SMART, various conserved domains such as GUB WAK Bind, epidermal growth factor CA, and protein kinase C as well as other regions like signal peptides, active sites, and transmembrane domains were identified. The gene organization of HvWAK1 was compared with wheat (TaWAK1) and Arabidopsis (AtWAK1), suggesting that the WAK1 gene organization has remained highly conserved. Nonetheless, WAK1 was found to be highly divergent when compared with sequences available from barley cv. Haruna Nijo (50 %), rice (46 %), wheat (21 %), Arabidopsis (25 %), and maize (19 %). This divergence may have facilitated a better adaptation to surrounding environments due to its role in communication between the extracellular matrix, cell, and outer environment. Semiquantitative RT-PCR-based expression analysis indicates HvWAK1 expression is specific to roots. Significant differences in root growth between GP wild type and GP-Ds mutant seedlings were observed under control and salt stress conditions.
Obligate biotrophic pathogens of plants must circumvent or counteract defenses to guarantee accommodation inside the host. To do so, they secrete a variety of effectors that regulate host immunity and facilitate the establishment of pathogen feeding structures called haustoria. The barley powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei produces a large number of proteins predicted to be secreted from haustoria. Fifty of these Blumeria effector candidates (BEC) were screened by host-induced gene silencing (HIGS), and eight were identified that contribute to infection. One shows similarity to β-1,3 glucosyltransferases, one to metallo-proteases, and two to microbial secreted ribonucleases; the remainder have no similarity to proteins of known function. Transcript abundance of all eight BEC increases dramatically in the early stages of infection and establishment of haustoria, consistent with a role in that process. Complementation analysis using silencing-insensitive synthetic cDNAs demonstrated that the ribonuclease-like BEC 1011 and 1054 are bona fide effectors that function within the plant cell. BEC1011 specifically interferes with pathogen-induced host cell death. Both are part of a gene superfamily unique to the powdery mildew fungi. Structural modeling was consistent, with BEC1054 adopting a ribonuclease-like fold, a scaffold not previously associated with effector function.
Root growth inhibition and radial root swelling were the characteristic symptoms of barley root tips after the short-term exposure of roots to 15 and 30μM Cd. Higher Cd concentrations caused extensive cell death and root growth arrest. Enhanced lipid peroxidation was observed as early as 1h after the short-term treatment in a Cd concentration-dependent manner. In contrast to lipid peroxidation, the induction of lipoxygenase activity was detected only 3h after the exposure of roots to 15 or 30μM Cd. In addition, it was not observed in 60μM Cd-treated root tips. The highest lipoxygenase activity was detected 6h after 15μM Cd treatment in the meristematic and elongation zone of root tip and was probably associated with the radial expansion of cells. Our results indicate that the upregulation of lipoxygenase is an important component of stress response in barley roots to toxic Cd. It is probably involved in the morphological stress response of root tips or/and in the alleviation of Cd-induced toxic alterations in plant cell membranes, but it is not responsible for the Cd-induced harmful lipid peroxidation and cell death.
While in dicotyledonous plants virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is well established to study plant-pathogen interaction, in monocots only few examples of efficient VIGS have been reported so far. One of the available systems is based on the brome mosaic virus (BMV) which allows gene silencing in different cereals including barley (Hordeum vulgare), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and maize (Zea mays).Infection of maize plants by the corn smut fungus Ustilago maydis leads to the formation of large tumors on stem, leaves, and inflorescences. During this biotrophic interaction, plant defense responses are actively suppressed by the pathogen, and previous transcriptome analyses of infected maize plants showed comprehensive and stage-specific changes in host gene expression during disease progression.To identify maize genes that are functionally involved in the interaction with U. maydis, we adapted a VIGS system based on the Brome mosaic virus (BMV) to maize at conditions that allow successful U. maydis infection of BMV pre-infected maize plants. This setup enables quantification of VIGS and its impact on U. maydis infection using a quantitative real-time PCR (q(RT)-PCR)-based readout.
A suppressor screen using dwarf mutants of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) led to the isolation of 'overgrowth' derivatives, which retained the original dwarfing gene but grew at a faster rate because of a new mutation. The new mutations were in the Slender1 (Sln1) gene (11/13 cases), which encodes the DELLA protein central to gibberellin (GA) signalling, showed 100% genetic linkage to Sln1 (1/13), or were in the Spindly1 (Spy1) gene (1/13), which encodes another protein involved in GA signalling. The overgrowth mutants were characterized by increased GA signalling, although the extent still depended on the background GA biosynthesis capacity, GA receptor function, and DELLA activity. A comparison between two GA responses, α-amylase production and leaf growth rate, revealed degrees of specificity for both the overgrowth allele and the GA response under consideration. Many overgrowth mutants were also isolated in a dwarf line of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and 19 new alleles were identified in the Rht-B1 gene, one of the 'Green Revolution' semi-dwarfing genes and the orthologue of Sln1. The sites of amino acid substitutions in the DELLA proteins of both species provide insight into DELLA function, and included examples where identical but independent substitutions were observed. In both species, the starting lines were too dwarfed to be directly useful in breeding programmes, but new overgrowth derivatives with semidwarf heights have now been characterized. The variation they exhibit in GA-influenced traits identifies novel alleles with perfect markers that are of potential use in breeding.
The majority of genes present in the hexaploid bread wheat genome are present as three homoeologs. Here, we describe the three homoeologous orthologs of the barley cleistogamy gene Cly1, a member of the AP2 gene family. As in barley, the wheat genes (designated TaAP2-A, -B and -D) map to the sub-telomeric region of the long arms of the group 2 chromosomes. The structure and pattern of transcription of the TaAP2 homoeologs were similar to those of Cly1. Transcript abundance was high in the florets, and particularly in the lodicule. The TaAP2 message was cleaved at its miR172 target sites. The set of homoeolog-specific PCR assays developed will be informative for identifying either naturally occurring or induced cleistogamous alleles at each of the three wheat homoeologs. By combining such alleles via conventional crossing, it should be possible to generate a cleistogamous form of bread wheat, which would be advantageous both with respect to improving the level of the crop's resistance against the causative pathogen of fusarium head blight, and for controlling pollen-mediated gene flow to and from genetically modified cultivars.
We consider the problem of testing each of m null hypotheses with a sequential permutation procedure in which the number of draws from the permutation distribution of each test statistic is a random variable. Each sequential permutation p-value has a null distribution that is nonuniform on a discrete support. We show how to use a collection of such p-values to estimate the number of true null hypotheses m0 among the m null hypotheses tested and how to estimate the false discovery rate (FDR) associated with p-value significance thresholds. We use real data analyses and simulation studies to evaluate and illustrate the performance of our proposed approach relative to standard, more computationally intensive strategies. We find that our sequential approach produces similar results with far less computational expense in a variety of scenarios.
The aim of the present study was to determine if relationships between cytokinin (CK) profiles and corresponding enzymatic regulation were consistent with differences in kernel yield among commercial barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivars, differing in parameters relating to productivity and grown under agronomically-relevant field conditions. Quantification of the CKs at six distinct stages of kernel development by high-performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) revealed a significant increase in CKs, especially trans-zeatin (tZ), during the stage when grain filling occurs, with a greater CK concentration observed in the cultivar with the greatest number of kernels per spike, which was also the highest yielding cultivar. High levels of the cis-zeatin (cZ) CK form were observed at the first developmental stage, indicating a possible role in early embryo development and viability. Cytokinin oxidase (CKX; EC 1.5.99.12) activity was evaluated at each stage through a colorimetric assay, as the enzyme provides a primary mechanism for the irreversible degradation and, thus, regulation of CKs. However, no peaks in CKX activity were observed and no differences were detected at the particular stages examined. Isopentenyl transferase (IPT) gene expression was also examined and suggests that biosynthesis contributes to regulation of CK concentrations in developing barley kernels.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression via mRNA cleavage or translation inhibition. In spite of barley being a cereal of great economic importance, very little data is available concerning its miRNA biogenesis. There are 69 barley miRNA and 67 pre-miRNA sequences available in the miRBase (release 19). However, no barley pri-miRNA and MIR gene structures have been shown experimentally. In the present paper, we examine the biogenesis of selected barley miRNAs and the developmental regulation of their pri-miRNA processing to learn more about miRNA maturation in barely. To investigate the organization of barley microRNA genes, nine microRNAs - 156g, 159b, 166n, 168a-5p/168a-3p, 171e, 397b-3p, 1120, and 1126 - were selected. Two of the studied miRNAs originate from one MIR168a-5p/168a-3p gene. The presence of all miRNAs was confirmed using a Northern blot approach. The miRNAs are encoded by genes with diverse organizations, representing mostly independent transcription units with or without introns. The intron-containing miRNA transcripts undergo complex splicing events to generate various spliced isoforms. We identified miRNAs that were encoded within introns of the noncoding genes MIR156g and MIR1126. Interestingly, the intron that encodes miR156g is spliced less efficiently than the intron encoding miR1126 from their specific precursors. miR397b-3p was detected in barley as a most probable functional miRNA, in contrast to rice where it has been identified as a complementary partner miRNA*. In the case of miR168a-5p/168a-3p, we found the generation of stable, mature molecules from both pre-miRNA arms, confirming evolutionary conservation of the stability of both species, as shown in rice and maize. We suggest that miR1120, located within the 3' UTR of a protein-coding gene and described as a functional miRNA in wheat, may represent a siRNA generated from a mariner-like transposable element. Seven of the eight barley miRNA genes characterized in this study contain introns with their respective transcripts undergoing developmentally specific processing events prior to the dicing out of pre-miRNA species from their pri-miRNA precursors. The observed tendency to maintain the intron encoding miR156g within the transcript, and preferences in splicing the miR1126-harboring intron, may suggest the existence of specific regulation of the levels of intron-derived miRNAs in barley.
Glutamine synthetase (GS) is a key enzyme in nitrogen (N) assimilation, particularly during seed development. Three cytosolic GS isoforms (HvGS1) were identified in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Golden Promise). Quantitation of gene expression, localization and response to N supply revealed that each gene plays a non-redundant role in different tissues and during development. Localization of HvGS1_1 in vascular cells of different tissues, combined with its abundance in the stem and its response to changes in N supply, indicate that it is important in N transport and remobilization. HvGS1_1 is located on chromosome 6H at 72.54 cM, close to the marker HVM074 which is associated with a major quantitative trait locus (QTL) for grain protein content (GPC). HvGS1_1 may be a potential candidate gene to manipulate barley GPC. HvGS1_2 mRNA was localized to the leaf mesophyll cells, in the cortex and pericycle of roots, and was the dominant HvGS1 isoform in these tissues. HvGS1_2 expression increased in leaves with an increasing supply of N, suggesting its role in the primary assimilation of N. HvGS1_3 was specifically and predominantly localized in the grain, being highly expressed throughout grain development. HvGS1_3 expression increased specifically in the roots of plants grown on high NH(+)4, suggesting that it has a primary role in grain N assimilation and also in the protection against ammonium toxicity in roots. The expression of HvGS1 genes is directly correlated with protein and enzymatic activity, indicating that transcriptional regulation is of prime importance in the control of GS activity in barley.
The transitions from juvenile to adult and adult to reproductive phases of growth are important stages in the life cycle of plants. The regulators of these transitions include miRNAs, in particular miR156 and miR172 which are part of a regulatory module conserved across the angiosperms. In Arabidopsis miR171 represses differentiation of axillary meristems by repressing expression of SCARECROW-LIKE(SCL) transcription factors, however the role of miR171 has not been examined in other plants. To investigate the roles of mir171 and its target genes in a monocot, the Hvu pri-miR171a was over-expressed in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Golden promise) leading to reduced expression of at least one HvSCL gene. The resulting transgenic plants displayed a pleiotropic phenotype which included branching defects, an increased number of short vegetative phytomers and late flowering. These phenotypes appear to be the consequence of changes in the organisation of the shoot meristem. In addition, the data show that miR171 over-expression alters the vegetative to reproductive phase transition by activating the miR156 pathway and repressing the expression of the TRD (THIRD OUTER GLUME) and HvPLA1 (Plastochron1) genes. Our data suggest that some of the roles of miR171 and its target genes that have been determined in Arabidopsis are conserved in barley and that they have additional functions in barley including activation of the miR156 pathway.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) spikes are developmentally switched from two-rowed to six-rowed by a single recessive gene, six-rowed spike 1 (vrs1), which encodes a homeodomain-leucine zipper I class transcription factor. Vrs1 is a paralog of HvHox2 and both were generated by duplication of an ancestral gene. HvHox2 is conserved among cereals, whereas Vrs1 acquired its current function during the evolution of barley. It was unclear whether divergence of expression pattern or protein function accounted for the functionalization of Vrs1. Here, we conducted a comparative analysis of protein functions and gene expression between HvHox2 and Vrs1 to clarify the functionalization mechanism. We revealed that the transcriptional activation activity of HvHOX2 and VRS1 was conserved. In situ hybridization analysis showed that HvHox2 is localized in vascular bundles in developing spikes, whereas Vrs1 is expressed exclusively in the pistil, lemma, palea and lodicule of lateral spikelets. The transcript abundance of Vrs1 was > 10-fold greater than that of HvHox2 during the pistil developmental stage, suggesting that the essential function of Vrs1 is to inhibit gynoecial development. We demonstrated the quantitative function of Vrs1 using RNAi transgenic plants and Vrs1 expression variants. Expression analysis of six-rowed spike mutants that are nonallelic to vrs1 showed that Vrs1 expression was up-regulated by Vrs4, whereas HvHox2 expression was not. These data demonstrate that the divergence of gene expression pattern contributed to the neofunctionalization of Vrs1.
Starch is synthesized in both leaves and storage tissues of plants. The role of starch syntheses and branching enzymes is well understood; however, the role of starch phosphorylase is not clear. A gene encoding Pho1 from barley was characterized and starch phosphorylases from both developing and germinating grain were characterized and purified. Two activities were detected: one with a molecular mass of 110 kDa and the other of 95 kDa. It was demonstrated through the use of antisera that the 110 kDa activity was located in the amyloplast and could correspond to the polypeptide encoded by the Pho1 gene cloned. The 95 kDa activity was localized to the cytoplasm, most strongly expressed in germinating grain, and was classified as a Pho2-type sequence. Using RNAi technology to reduce the content of Pho1 in the grain to less than 30% of wild type did not lead to any visible phenotype, and no dramatic alterations in the structure of the starch were observed. Two starch phosphorylase activities were identified and characterized in barley grains, and shown to be present during starch synthesis. However, their role in starch synthesis still remains to be elucidated.
In cereals, a common salinity tolerance mechanism is to limit accumulation of Na(+) in the shoot. In a cross between the barley variety Barque-73 (Hordeum vulgare ssp. vulgare) and the accession CPI-71284 of wild barley (H. vulgare ssp. spontaneum), the HvNax3 locus on chromosome 7H was found to determine a ~10-25 % difference in leaf Na(+) accumulation in seedlings grown in saline hydroponics, with the beneficial exclusion trait originating from the wild parent. The Na(+) exclusion allele was also associated with a 13-21 % increase in shoot fresh weight. The HvNax3 locus was delimited to a 0.4 cM genetic interval, where it cosegregated with the HVP10 gene for vacuolar H(+)-pyrophosphatase (V-PPase). Sequencing revealed that the mapping parents encoded identical HVP10 proteins, but salinity-induced mRNA expression of HVP10 was higher in CPI-71284 than in Barque-73, in both roots and shoots. By contrast, the expression of several other genes predicted by comparative mapping to be located in the HvNax3 interval was similar in the two parent lines. Previous work demonstrated roles for V-PPase in ion transport and salinity tolerance. We therefore considered transcription levels of HVP10 to be a possible basis for variation in shoot Na(+) accumulation and biomass production controlled by the HvNax3 locus under saline conditions. Potential mechanisms linking HVP10 expression patterns to the observed phenotypes are discussed.
Receptor-like kinases (RLKs) play broad biological roles in plants. We report on a conserved receptor-like protein kinase (RPK) gene from wheat and other Triticeae species. The TaRPK1 was isolated from the Triticum aestivum cv. Prins - Triticum timopheevii introgression line IGVI-465 carrying the powdery mildew resistance gene Pm6. The TaRPK1 was mapped to homoeologous chromosomes 2A (TaRPK1-2A), 2D (TaRPK1-2D) and the Pm6-carrier chromosome 2G (TaRPK1-2G) of IGVI-465. Under the tested conditions, only the TaRPK1-2G allele was actively transcribed, producing two distinct transcripts via alternative splicing. The predicted 424-amino acid protein of TaRPK1-2G contained a signal peptide, a transmembrane domain and an intracellular serine/threonine kinase domain, but lacked a typical extracellular domain. The expression of TaRPK1-2G gene was up-regulated upon the infection by Blumeria graminis f.sp. tritici (Bgt) and treatment with methyl jasmonate (MeJA), but down-regulated in response to treatments of SA and ABA. Over-expression of TaRPK1-2G in the powdery mildew susceptible wheat variety Prins by a transient expression assay showed that it slightly reduced the haustorium index of the infected Bgt. These data indicated that TaRPK1-2G participated in the defense response to Bgt infection and in the JA signaling pathway. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that TaRPK1-2G was highly conserved among plant species, and the amino acid sequence similarity of TaRPK1-2G among grass species was more than 86%. Based on its conservation, the RPK gene-based STS primers were designed, and used to amplify the RPK orthologs from the homoeologous group-2 chromosomes of all the tested Triticeae species, such as chromosome 2G of T. timopheevii, 2R of Secale cereale, 2H of Hordeum vulgare, 2S of Aegilops speltoides, 2S(l) of Ae. longissima, 2M(g) of Ae. geniculata, 2S(p) and 2U(p) of Ae. peregrina. The developed STS markers serve as conserved functional markers for the identification of homoeologous group-2 chromosomes of the Triticeae species.
Phosphorus (P) is essential for plant growth. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a key role in phosphate homeostasis. However, little is known about P effect on miRNA expression in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). In this study, we used Illumina's next-generation sequencing technology to sequence small RNAs (sRNAs) in barley grown under P-deficient and P-sufficient conditions. We identified 221 conserved miRNAs and 12 novel miRNAs, of which 55 were only present in P-deficient treatment while 32 only existed in P-sufficient treatment. Total 47 miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed between the two P treatments (|log2| > 1). We also identified many other classes of sRNAs, including sense and antisense sRNAs, repeat-associated sRNAs, transfer RNA (tRNA)-derived sRNAs and chloroplast-derived sRNAs, and some of which were also significantly differentially expressed between the two P treatments. Of all the sRNAs identified, antisense sRNAs were the most abundant sRNA class in both P treatments. Surprisingly, about one-fourth of sRNAs were derived from the chloroplast genome, and a chloroplast-encoded tRNA-derived sRNA was the most abundant sRNA of all the sRNAs sequenced. Our data provide valuable clues for understanding the properties of sRNAs and new insights into the potential roles of miRNAs and other classes of sRNAs in the control of phosphate homeostasis.
Endo-(1,4)-β-glucanase (cellulase) glycosyl hydrolase GH9 enzymes have been implicated in several aspects of cell wall metabolism in higher plants, including cellulose biosynthesis and degradation, modification of other wall polysaccharides that contain contiguous (1,4)-β-glucosyl residues, and wall loosening during cell elongation. The endo-(1,4)-β-glucanase gene families from barley (Hordeum vulgare), maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), rice (Oryza sativa) and Brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon) range in size from 23 to 29 members. Phylogenetic analyses show variations in clade structure between the grasses and Arabidopsis, and indicate differential gene loss and gain during evolution. Map positions and comparative studies of gene structures allow orthologous genes in the five species to be identified and synteny between the grasses is found to be high. It is also possible to differentiate between homoeologues resulting from ancient polyploidizations of the maize genome. Transcript analyses using microarray, massively parallel signature sequencing and quantitative PCR data for barley, rice and maize indicate that certain members of the endo-(1,4)-β-glucanase gene family are transcribed across a wide range of tissues, while others are specifically transcribed in particular tissues. There are strong correlations between transcript levels of several members of the endo-(1,4)-β-glucanase family and the data suggest that evolutionary conservation of transcription exists between orthologues across the grass family. There are also strong correlations between certain members of the endo-(1,4)-β-glucanase family and other genes known to be involved in cell wall loosening and cell expansion, such as expansins and xyloglucan endotransglycosylases. The identification of these groups of genes will now allow us to test hypotheses regarding their functions and joint participation in wall synthesis, re-modelling and degradation, together with their potential role in lignocellulose conversion during biofuel production from grasses and cereal crop residues.
Protein effectors of pathogenicity are instrumental in modulating host immunity and disease resistance. The powdery mildew pathogen of grasses Blumeria graminis causes one of the most important diseases of cereal crops. B. graminis is an obligate biotrophic pathogen and as such has an absolute requirement to suppress or avoid host immunity if it is to survive and cause disease. Here we characterise a superfamily predicted to be the full complement of Candidates for Secreted Effector Proteins (CSEPs) in the fungal barley powdery mildew parasite B. graminis f.sp. hordei. The 491 genes encoding these proteins constitute over 7% of this pathogen's annotated genes and most were grouped into 72 families of up to 59 members. They were predominantly expressed in the intracellular feeding structures called haustoria, and proteins specifically associated with the haustoria were identified by large-scale mass spectrometry-based proteomics. There are two major types of effector families: one comprises shorter proteins (100-150 amino acids), with a high relative expression level in the haustoria and evidence of extensive diversifying selection between paralogs; the second type consists of longer proteins (300-400 amino acids), with lower levels of differential expression and evidence of purifying selection between paralogs. An analysis of the predicted protein structures underscores their overall similarity to known fungal effectors, but also highlights unexpected structural affinities to ribonucleases throughout the entire effector super-family. Candidate effector genes belonging to the same family are loosely clustered in the genome and are associated with repetitive DNA derived from retro-transposons. We employed the full complement of genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic analyses as well as structural prediction methods to identify and characterize the members of the CSEPs superfamily in B. graminis f.sp. hordei. Based on relative intron position and the distribution of CSEPs with a ribonuclease-like domain in the phylogenetic tree we hypothesize that the associated genes originated from an ancestral gene, encoding a secreted ribonuclease, duplicated successively by repetitive DNA-driven processes and diversified during the evolution of the grass and cereal powdery mildew lineage.
Whole-genome sequences established for model and major crop species constitute a key resource for advanced genomic research. For outbreeding forage and turf grass species like ryegrasses (Lolium spp.), such resources have yet to be developed. Here, we present a model of the perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) genome on the basis of conserved synteny to barley (Hordeum vulgare) and the model grass genome Brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon) as well as rice (Oryza sativa) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). A transcriptome-based genetic linkage map of perennial ryegrass served as a scaffold to establish the chromosomal arrangement of syntenic genes from model grass species. This scaffold revealed a high degree of synteny and macrocollinearity and was then utilized to anchor a collection of perennial ryegrass genes in silico to their predicted genome positions. This resulted in the unambiguous assignment of 3,315 out of 8,876 previously unmapped genes to the respective chromosomes. In total, the GenomeZipper incorporates 4,035 conserved grass gene loci, which were used for the first genome-wide sequence divergence analysis between perennial ryegrass, barley, Brachypodium, rice, and sorghum. The perennial ryegrass GenomeZipper is an ordered, information-rich genome scaffold, facilitating map-based cloning and genome assembly in perennial ryegrass and closely related Poaceae species. It also represents a milestone in describing synteny between perennial ryegrass and fully sequenced model grass genomes, thereby increasing our understanding of genome organization and evolution in the most important temperate forage and turf grass species.
Following the production of transgenic plants, the selectable marker gene(s) used in the process are redundant, and their retention may be undesirable. They can be removed by exploiting segregation among the progeny of co-transformants carrying both the selectable marker gene and the effector transgene. Here we show that the doubled haploid technology widely used in conventional barley breeding programmes represents a useful means of fixing a transgene, while simultaneously removing the unwanted selectable marker gene. Primary barley co-transformants involving hpt::gfp (the selectable marker) and gus (a model transgene of interest) were produced via Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer to immature embryos using two respective T-DNAs. These plants were then subjected to embryogenic pollen culture to separate independently integrated transgenes in doubled haploid progeny. A comparison between 14 combinations, involving two Agrobacterium strains carrying various plasmids, revealed that the highest rate of independent co-transformation was achieved when a single Agrobacterium clone carried two binary vectors. Using this principle along with Agrobacterium strain LBA4404, selectable marker-free, gus homozygous lines were eventually obtained from 1.5 per 100 immature embryos inoculated. Compared to the segregation of uncoupled T-DNAs in conventionally produced progeny, the incorporation of haploid technology improves the time and resource efficiency of producing true-breeding, selectable marker-free transgenic barley.
The nucleotide-binding domain and leucine-rich repeat (NLR) family of plant receptors detects pathogen-derived molecules, designated effectors, inside host cells and mediates innate immune responses to pathogenic invaders. Genetic evidence revealed species-specific coevolution of many NLRs with effectors from host-adapted pathogens, suggesting that the specificity of these NLRs is restricted to the host or closely related plant species. However, we report that an NLR immune receptor (MLA1) from monocotyledonous barley is fully functional in partially immunocompromised dicotyledonous Arabidopsis thaliana against the barley powdery mildew fungus, Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. This implies ~200 million years of evolutionary conservation of the underlying immune mechanism. A time-course RNA-seq analysis in transgenic Arabidopsis lines detected sustained expression of a large MLA1-dependent gene cluster. This cluster is greatly enriched in genes known to respond to the fungal cell wall-derived microbe-associated molecular pattern chitin. The MLA1-dependent sustained transcript accumulation could define a conserved function of the nuclear pool of MLA1 detected in barley and Arabidopsis. We also found that MLA1-triggered immunity was fully retained in mutant plants that are simultaneously depleted of ethylene, jasmonic acid, and salicylic acid signaling. This points to the existence of an evolutionarily conserved and phytohormone-independent MLA1-mediated resistance mechanism. This also suggests a conserved mechanism for internalization of B. graminis f. sp. hordei effectors into host cells of flowering plants. Furthermore, the deduced connectivity of the NLR to multiple branches of immune signaling pathways likely confers increased robustness against pathogen effector-mediated interception of host immune signaling and could have contributed to the evolutionary preservation of the immune mechanism.
Mechanisms involved in the biological control of plant diseases are varied and complex. Hormones, including the auxin indole acetic acid (IAA) and abscisic acid (ABA), are essential regulators of a multitude of biological functions, including plant responses to biotic and abiotic stressors. This study set out to determine what hormones might play a role in Pseudomonas fluorescens -mediated control of Fusarium head blight (FHB) disease of barley and to determine if biocontrol-associated hormones directly affect disease development. A previous study distinguished bacterium-responsive genes from bacterium-primed genes, distinguished by the fact that the latter are only up-regulated when both P. fluorescens and the pathogen Fusarium culmorum are present. In silico analysis of the promoter sequences available for a subset of the bacterium-primed genes identified several hormones, including IAA and ABA as potential regulators of transcription. Treatment with the bacterium or pathogen resulted in increased IAA and ABA levels in head tissue; both microbes had additive effects on the accumulation of IAA but not of ABA. The microbe-induced accumulation of ABA preceded that of IAA. Gene expression analysis showed that both hormones up-regulated the accumulation of bacterium-primed genes. But IAA, more than ABA up-regulated the transcription of the ABA biosynthesis gene NCED or the signalling gene Pi2, both of which were previously shown to be bacterium-responsive rather than primed. Application of IAA, but not of ABA reduced both disease severity and yield loss caused by F. culmorum, but neither hormone affect in vitro fungal growth. Both IAA and ABA are involved in the P. fluorescens-mediated control of FHB disease of barley. Gene expression studies also support the hypothesis that IAA plays a role in the primed response to F. culmorum. This hypothesis was validated by the fact that pre-application of IAA reduced both symptoms and yield loss asssociated with the disease. This is the first evidence that IAA plays a role in the control of FHB disease and in the bacterial priming of host defences.
Starch is stored in higher plants as granules composed of semi-crystalline amylopectin and amorphous amylose. Starch granules provide energy for the plant during dark periods and for germination of seeds and tubers. Dietary starch is also a highly glycemic carbohydrate being degraded to glucose and rapidly absorbed in the small intestine. But a portion of dietary starch, termed "resistant starch" (RS) escapes digestion and reaches the large intestine, where it is fermented by colonic bacteria producing short chain fatty acids (SCFA) which are linked to several health benefits. The RS is preferentially derived from amylose, which can be increased by suppressing amylopectin synthesis by silencing of starch branching enzymes (SBEs). However all the previous works attempting the production of high RS crops resulted in only partly increased amylose-content and/or significant yield loss. In this study we invented a new method for silencing of multiple genes. Using a chimeric RNAi hairpin we simultaneously suppressed all genes coding for starch branching enzymes (SBE I, SBE IIa, SBE IIb) in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), resulting in production of amylose-only starch granules in the endosperm. This trait was segregating 3:1. Amylose-only starch granules were irregularly shaped and showed peculiar thermal properties and crystallinity. Transgenic lines retained high-yield possibly due to a pleiotropic upregualtion of other starch biosynthetic genes compensating the SBEs loss. For gelatinized starch, a very high content of RS (65 %) was observed, which is 2.2-fold higher than control (29%). The amylose-only grains germinated with same frequency as control grains. However, initial growth was delayed in young plants. This is the first time that pure amylose has been generated with high yield in a living organism. This was achieved by a new method of simultaneous suppression of the entire complement of genes encoding starch branching enzymes. We demonstrate that amylopectin is not essential for starch granule crystallinity and integrity. However the slower initial growth of shoots from amylose-only grains may be due to an important physiological role played by amylopectin ordered crystallinity for rapid starch remobilization explaining the broad conservation in the plant kingdom of the amylopectin structure.
Leaf rust, caused by the biotrophic fungal pathogen Puccinia hordei, is one of the most important foliar disease of barley (Hordeum vulgare) and represents a serious threat in many production regions of the world. The leaf rust resistance gene Rph15 is of outstanding interest for resistance breeding because it confers resistance to over 350 Puccinia hordei isolates collected from around the world. Molecular and biochemical mechanisms responsible for the Rph15 effectiveness are currently not investigated. The aim of the present work was to study the Rph15-based defence responses using a proteomic approach. Protein pattern changes in response to the leaf rust pathogen infection were investigated in two barley near isogenic lines (NILs), Bowman (leaf rust susceptible) and Bowman-Rph15 (leaf rust resistant), differing for the introgression of the leaf rust resistance gene Rph15. Two infection time points, 24 hours and four days post inoculation (dpi), were analysed. No statistically significant differences were identified at the early time point, while at 4 dpi eighteen protein spots were significantly up or down regulated with a fold-change equal or higher than two in response to pathogen infection. Almost all the pathogen-responsive proteins were identified in the Bowman-Rph15 resistant NIL. Protein spots were characterized by LC-MS/MS analysis and found to be involved in photosynthesis and energy metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, protein degradation and defence. Proteomic data were complemented by transcriptional analysis of the respective genes. The identified proteins can be related to modulation of the photosynthetic apparatus components, re-direction of the metabolism to sustain defence responses and deployment of defence proteins. The identification of leaf rust infection-modulated defence responses restricted to the resistant NIL support the hypothesis that basal defence responses of Bowman, but not the Rph15 resistance gene-based ones, are suppressed or delayed by pathogen effectors to levels below the detection power of the adopted proteomic approach. Additionally, Rph15-mediated resistance processes identified mainly resides on a modulation of primary metabolism, affecting photosyntesis and carbohydrate pool.
Six wheat cultivars were grown at Rothamsted (UK) with three levels of nitrogen fertilizer (100, 200 and 350 kg N/ha) in 2009 and 2010. Gene expression in developing caryopses at 21 days post-anthesis (DPA) was profiled using the Affymetrix Wheat GeneChip. Four of 105 transcripts which were significantly upregulated by nitrogen level were annotated as γ-3 hordein and the identification of corresponding expressed sequence tags showed that they differed in sequence from previously described (typical) γ-gliadins and represented a novel form of γ-gliadin. Real-time reverse transcriptase PCR at 14, 21, 28 and 35 DPA revealed that this transcript was most abundant and most responsive to nitrogen at 21 DPA. Four novel γ-gliadin genes were isolated by PCR amplification from wheat cv. Hereward and the related species Aegilops tauschii and Triticum monococcum while three were assembled from the genomic sequence database of wheat cv. Chinese Spring (www.cerealsdb.uk.net). Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of the seven genes showed that they shared only 44.4-46.0% identity with the sequence of a typical γ-gliadin (accession number EF15018), but 61.8-68.3% identity with the sequence of γ-3 hordein from the wild barley species Hordeum chilense (AY338065). The novel γ-gliadin genes were localized to the group 1 chromosomes (1A, 1B, 1D).
Heavy metal transporters belonging to the P(1B)-ATPase subfamily of P-type ATPases are key players in cellular heavy metal homeostasis. Heavy metal transporters belonging to the P(1B)-ATPase subfamily of P-type ATPases are key players in cellular heavy metal homeostasis. In this study we investigated the properties of HvHMA1, which is a barley orthologue of Arabidopsis thaliana AtHMA1 localized to the chloroplast envelope. HvHMA1 was localized to the periphery of chloroplast of leaves and in intracellular compartments of grain aleurone cells. HvHMA1 expression was significantly higher in grains compared to leaves. In leaves, HvHMA1 expression was moderately induced by Zn deficiency, but reduced by toxic levels of Zn, Cu and Cd. Isolated barley chloroplasts exported Zn and Cu when supplied with Mg-ATP and this transport was inhibited by the AtHMA1 inhibitor thapsigargin. Down-regulation of HvHMA1 by RNA interference did not have an effect on foliar Zn and Cu contents but resulted in a significant increase in grain Zn and Cu content. Heterologous expression of HvHMA1 in heavy metal-sensitive yeast strains increased their sensitivity to Zn, but also to Cu, Co, Cd, Ca, Mn, and Fe. Based on these results, we suggest that HvHMA1 is a broad-specificity exporter of metals from chloroplasts and serve as a scavenging mechanism for mobilizing plastid Zn and Cu when cells become deficient in these elements. In grains, HvHMA1 might be involved in mobilizing Zn and Cu from the aleurone cells during grain filling and germination.
Vitamin E tocotrienol synthesis in monocots requires homogentisate geranylgeranyl transferase (HGGT), which catalyzes the condensation of homogentisate and the unsaturated C20 isoprenoid geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGDP). By contrast, vitamin E tocopherol synthesis is mediated by homogentisate phytyltransferase (HPT), which condenses homogentisate and the saturated C20 isoprenoid phytyl diphosphate (PDP). An HGGT-independent pathway for tocotrienol synthesis has also been shown to occur by de-regulation of homogentisate synthesis. In this paper, the basis for this pathway and its impact on vitamin E production when combined with HGGT are explored. An Arabidopsis line was initially developed that accumulates tocotrienols and homogentisate by co-expression of Arabidopsis hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPPD) and Escherichia coli bi-functional chorismate mutase/prephenate dehydrogenase (TyrA). When crossed into the vte2-1 HPT null mutant, tocotrienol production was lost, indicating that HPT catalyzes tocotrienol synthesis in HPPD/TyrA-expressing plants by atypical use of GGDP as a substrate. Consistent with this, recombinant Arabidopsis HPT preferentially catalyzed in vitro production of the tocotrienol precursor geranylgeranyl benzoquinol only when presented with high molar ratios of GGDP:PDP. In addition, tocotrienol levels were highest in early growth stages in HPPD/TyrA lines, but decreased strongly relative to tocopherols during later growth stages when PDP is known to accumulate. Collectively, these results indicate that HPPD/TyrA-induced tocotrienol production requires HPT and occurs upon enrichment of GGDP relative to PDP in prenyl diphosphate pools. Finally, combined expression of HPPD/TyrA and HGGT in Arabidopsis leaves and seeds resulted in large additive increases in vitamin E production, indicating that homogentisate concentrations limit HGGT-catalyzed tocotrienol synthesis.
CKX genes encode cytokinin dehydrogenase enzymes (CKX), which metabolize cytokinins in plants and influence developmental processes. The genes are expressed in different tissues and organs during development; however, their exact role in barley is poorly understood. It has already been proven that RNA interference (RNAi)-based silencing of HvCKX1 decreased the CKX level, especially in those organs which showed the highest expression, i.e. developing kernels and roots, leading to higher plant productivity and higher mass of the roots [1]. The same type of RNAi construct was applied to silence HvCKX2 and analyze the function of the gene. Two cultivars of barley were transformed with the same silencing and selection cassettes by two different methods: biolistic and via Agrobacterium. The mean Agrobacterium-mediated transformation efficiency of Golden Promise was 3.47% (±2.82). The transcript level of HvCKX2 in segregating progeny of T(1) lines was decreased to 34%. The reduction of the transcript in Agrobacterium-derived plants resulted in decreased CKX activity in the developing and developed leaves as well as in 7 DAP (days after pollination) spikes. The final phenotypic effect was increased productivity of T(0) plants and T(1) lines. Higher productivity was the result of the higher number of seeds and higher grain yield. It was also correlated with the higher 1000 grain weight, increased (by 7.5%) height of the plants and higher (from 0.5 to 2) numbers of spikes. The transformation efficiency of Golden Promise after biolistic transformation was more than twice as low compared to Agrobacterium. The transcript level in segregating progeny of T(1) lines was decreased to 24%. Otherwise, the enzyme activity found in the leaves of the lines after biolistic transformation, especially in cv. Golden Promise, was very high, exceeding the relative level of the control lines. These unbalanced ratios of the transcript level and the activity of the CKX enzyme negatively affected kernel germination or anther development and as a consequence setting the seeds. The final phenotypic effect was the decreased productivity of T(0) plants and T(1) lines obtained via the biolistic silencing of HvCKX2. The phenotypic result, which was higher productivity of silenced lines obtained via Agrobacterium, confirms the hypothesis that spatial and temporal differences in expression contributed to functional differentiation. The applicability of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation for gene silencing of developmentally regulated genes, like HvCKX2, was proven. Otherwise low productivity and disturbances in plant development of biolistic-silenced lines documented the unsuitability of the method. The possible reasons are discussed.
In Arabidopsis and rice, miR159-regulated GAMYB-like family transcription factors function in flower development and gibberellin (GA) signaling in cereal aleurone cells. In this study, the involvement of miR159 in the regulation of its putative target TaGAMYB and its relationship to wheat development were investigated. First, we demonstrated that cleavage of TaGAMYB1 and TaGAMYB2 was directed by miR159 using 5'-RACE and a transient expression system. Second, we overexpressed TamiR159, TaGAMYB1 and mTaGAMYB1 (impaired in the miR159 binding site) in transgenic rice, revealing that the accumulation in rice of mature miR159 derived from the precursor of wheat resulted in delayed heading time and male sterility. In addition, the number of tillers and primary branches in rice overexpressing mTaGAMYB1 increased relative to the wild type. Our previous study reported that TamiR159 was downregulated after two hours of heat stress treatment in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Most notably, the TamiR159 overexpression rice lines were more sensitive to heat stress relative to the wild type, indicating that the downregulation of TamiR159 in wheat after heat stress might participate in a heat stress-related signaling pathway, in turn contributing to heat stress tolerance.
The adaptive response of Egyptian barley land races to drought stress was analyzed using difference gel electrophoresis (DIGE). Physiological measurements and proteome alterations of accession number 15141, drought tolerant, and accession number 15163, drought sensitive, were compared. Differentially expressed proteins were subjected to MALDI-TOF-MS analysis. Alterations in proteins related to the energy balance and chaperons were the most characteristic features to explain the differences between the drought-tolerant and the drought-sensitive accessions. Further alterations in the levels of proteins involved in metabolism, transcription and protein synthesis are also indicated.
The specialized root epidermis cells of higher plants produce long, tubular outgrowths called root hairs. Root hairs play an important role in nutrient and water uptake, and they serve as a valuable model in studies of plant cell morphogenesis. More than 1,300 articles that describe the biological processes of these unique cells have been published to date. As new fields of root hair research are emerging, the number of new papers published each year and the volumes of new relevant data are continuously increasing. Therefore, there is a general need to facilitate studies on root hair biology by collecting, presenting, and sharing the available information in a systematic, curated manner. Consequently, in this paper, we present a comprehensive database of root hair genomics, iRootHair, which is accessible as a Web-based service. The current version of the database includes information about 153 root hair-related genes that have been identified to date in dicots and monocots along with their putative orthologs in higher plants with sequenced genomes. In order to facilitate the use of the iRootHair database, it is subdivided into interrelated, searchable sections that describe genes, processes of root hair formation, root hair mutants, and available references. The database integrates bioinformatics tools with a focus on sequence identification and annotation. iRootHair is a unique resource for root hair research that integrates the large volume of data related to root hair genomics in a single, curated, and expandable database that is freely available at www.iroothair.org.
Transcription factors (TFs) are proteins that have played a central role both in evolution and in domestication, and are major regulators of development in living organisms. Plant genome sequences reveal that approximately 7% of all genes encode putative TFs. The DOF (DNA binding with One Finger) TF family has been associated with vital processes exclusive to higher plants and to their close ancestors (algae, mosses and ferns). These are seed maturation and germination, light-mediated regulation, phytohormone and plant responses to biotic and abiotic stresses, etc. In Hordeum vulgare and Oryza sativa, 26 and 30 different Dof genes, respectively, have been annotated. Brachypodium distachyon has been the first Pooideae grass to be sequenced and, due to its genomic, morphological and physiological characteristics, has emerged as the model system for temperate cereals, such as wheat and barley. Through searches in the B. distachyon genome, 27 Dof genes have been identified and a phylogenetic comparison with the Oryza sativa and the Hordeum vulgare DOFs has been performed. To explore the evolutionary relationship among these DOF proteins, a combined phylogenetic tree has been constructed with the Brachypodium DOFs and those from rice and barley. This phylogenetic analysis has classified the DOF proteins into four Major Cluster of Orthologous Groups (MCOGs). Using RT-qPCR analysis the expression profiles of the annotated BdDof genes across four organs (leaves, roots, spikes and seeds) has been investigated. These results have led to a classification of the BdDof genes into two groups, according to their expression levels. The genes highly or preferentially expressed in seeds have been subjected to a more detailed expression analysis (maturation, dry stage and germination). Comparison of the expression profiles of the Brachypodium Dof genes with the published functions of closely related DOF sequences from the cereal species considered here, deduced from the phylogenetic analysis, indicates that although the expression profile has been conserved in many of the putative orthologs, in some cases duplication followed by subsequent divergence may have occurred (neo-functionalization).
Ribosome-inactivating protein (RIP), a defence protein found in various plants, possesses different chain architectures and activation mechanisms. The RIP from barley (bRIP) is a type I RIP and has sequence features that are divergent from those of type I and type II RIPs from dicotyledonous plants and even the type III RIP from maize. This study presents the first crystal structure of an RIP from a cereal crop, barley, in free, AMP-bound and adenine-bound states. For phasing, a codon-optimized synthetic brip1 gene was used and a vector was constructed to overexpress soluble bRIP fusion proteins; such expression has been verified in a number of cases. The overall structure of bRIP shows folding similar to that observed in other RIPs but also shows significant differences in specific regions, particularly in a switch region that undergoes a structural transition between a 3(10)-helix and a loop depending on the liganded state. The switch region is in a position equivalent to that of a proteolytically susceptible and putative ribosome-binding site in type III RIPs. Thus, the bRIP structure confirms the detailed enzymatic mechanism of this N-glycosidase and reveals a novel activation mechanism for type I RIPs from cereal crops.
Vegetative axillary meristem (AXM) activity results in the production of branches. In barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), vegetative AXM develop in the crown and give rise to modified branches, referred to as tillers. Mutations in the barley low-tillering mutant uniculm2 block vegetative AXM development and prevent tiller development. The objectives of this work were to examine gene expression in wild-type and cul2 mutant plants, fine map the CUL2 gene, and to examine synteny in the CUL2 region in barley with rice. RNA profiling experiments using two near-isogenic line pairs carrying either the cul2 mutant allele or wild-type CUL2 allele in different genetic backgrounds detected 28 unique gene transcripts exhibiting similar patterns of differential accumulation in both genetic backgrounds, indicating that we have identified key genes impacted by the CUL2 gene. Twenty-four genes had higher abundance in uniculm2 mutant tissues, and nearly half of the annotated genes likely function in stress-response or signal transduction pathways. Genetic mapping identified five co-segregating markers in 1,088 F2 individuals. These markers spanned the centromere region on chromosome 6H, and coincided with a 50-cM region on rice chromosome 2, indicating that it may be difficult to positionally clone CUL2. Taken together, the results revealed stress response and signal transduction pathways that are associated with the CUL2 gene, isolating CUL2 via positional cloning approaches that may be difficult, and the remnants of barley-rice synteny in the CUL2 region.
Members of the core pooids represent the most important crops in temperate zones including wheat, barley, and oats. Their importance as crops is largely due to the grain, particularly the storage capabilities of the endosperm. In this study, a comprehensive survey of grain morphology and endosperm organization in representatives of wild and cultivated species throughout the core pooids was performed. As sister to the core pooid tribes Poeae, Aveneae, Triticeae, and Bromeae within the Pooideae subfamily, Brachypodium provides a taxonomically relevant reference point. Using macroscopic, histological, and molecular analyses distinct patterns of grain tissue organization in these species, focusing on the peripheral and modified aleurone, are described. The results indicate that aleurone organization is correlated with conventional grain quality characters such as grain shape and starch content. In addition to morphological and organizational variation, expression patterns of candidate gene markers underpinning this variation were examined. Features commonly associated with grains are largely defined by analyses on lineages within the Triticeae and knowledge of grain structure may be skewed as a result of the focus on wheat and barley. Specifically, the data suggest that the modified aleurone is largely restricted to species in the Triticeae tribe.
Plant pathogenic fungi Aspergillus flavus, Fusarium verticillioides, and Fusarium graminearum infect seeds of the most important food and feed crops, including maize, wheat, and barley. More importantly, these fungi produce aflatoxins, fumonisins, and trichothecenes, respectively, which threaten health and food security worldwide. In this review, we examine the molecular mechanisms and environmental factors that regulate mycotoxin biosynthesis in each fungus, and discuss the similarities and differences in the collective body of knowledge. Whole-genome sequences are available for these fungi, providing reference databases for genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic analyses. It is well recognized that genes responsible for mycotoxin biosynthesis are organized in clusters. However, recent research has documented the intricate transcriptional and epigenetic regulation that affects these gene clusters. Significantly, molecular networks that respond to environmental factors, namely nitrogen, carbon, and pH, are connected to components regulating mycotoxin production. Furthermore, the developmental status of seeds and specific tissue types exert conditional influences during fungal colonization. A comparison of the three distinct mycotoxin groups provides insight into new areas for research collaborations that will lead to innovative strategies to control mycotoxin contamination of grain.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is among the world's earliest domesticated and most important crop plants. It is diploid with a large haploid genome of 5.1 gigabases (Gb). Here we present an integrated and ordered physical, genetic and functional sequence resource that describes the barley gene-space in a structured whole-genome context. We developed a physical map of 4.98 Gb, with more than 3.90 Gb anchored to a high-resolution genetic map. Projecting a deep whole-genome shotgun assembly, complementary DNA and deep RNA sequence data onto this framework supports 79,379 transcript clusters, including 26,159 'high-confidence' genes with homology support from other plant genomes. Abundant alternative splicing, premature termination codons and novel transcriptionally active regions suggest that post-transcriptional processing forms an important regulatory layer. Survey sequences from diverse accessions reveal a landscape of extensive single-nucleotide variation. Our data provide a platform for both genome-assisted research and enabling contemporary crop improvement.
Water homeostasis is crucial to the growth and survival of plants. Plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs) have been shown to be primary channels mediating water uptake in plant cells. We characterized a novel PIP2 gene, HvPIP2;8 in barley (Hordeum vulgare). HvPIP2;8 shared 72-76% identity with other HvPIP2s and 74% identity with rice OsPIP2;8. The gene was expressed in all organs including the shoots, roots and pistil at a similar level. When HvPIP2;8 was transiently expressed in onion epidermal cells, it was localized to the plasma membrane. HvPIP2;8 showed transport activity for water in Xenopus oocytes, however its interaction with HvPIP1;2 was not observed. These results suggest that HvPIP2;8 plays a role in water homeostasis although further functional analysis is required in future.
Primary dormant barley (Hordeum vulgare) grains germinate at 10-15°C but not at 30°C, and there exist a positive correlation between embryo ABA content after 24 h on water and the depth of dormancy. Incubation at 30°C results in a progressive loss of the ability to germinate at 15°C. This induction of a secondary dormancy is optimal after 3 days and requires an embryo water content higher than 0.50 g H₂O g⁻¹ DW, this corresponding with activation of the cell cycle. There exists no correlation between ABA content after 3 days at 30°C and the induction of secondary dormancy. However, at high water content (1.60-1.87 g H₂O g⁻¹ DW), secondary dormancy is associated with an high embryo ABA content after transfer to 15°C, resulting from an increase in HvNCED1 and HvNCED2 expression and a decrease in HvABA8'OH-1. Such changes are not observed at 0.45 g H₂O g⁻¹ DW. Incubation at 30°C also results in an increase in expression of genes involved in GA catabolism (HvGA2ox1, HvGA2ox3 and HvGA2ox5) and synthesis (HvGA3ox2, HvGA20ox1 and HvGA20ox3). The HvGA3ox2/HvGA2ox3 transcript ratio remains low (0.27-0.37) at 30°C and after transfer to 15°C in secondary dormant seeds, but it is higher than two when secondary dormancy is not induced. Changes in HvExpA11 expression indicate that GA signaling decreases when a secondary dormancy is expressed. Our results clearly indicate that expression of genes involved in ABA and GA metabolism differs in primary and secondary dormancies and furthermore, their expression is related to embryo water content.
A 454 sequencing snapshot was utilised to investigate the genome composition and nucleotide diversity of transposable elements (TEs) for several Triticeae taxa, including Triticum aestivum, Hordeum vulgare, Hordeum spontaneum and Secale cereale together with relatives of the A, B and D genome donors of wheat, Triticum urartu (A), Aegilops speltoides (S) and Aegilops tauschii (D). Additional taxa containing the A genome, Triticum monococcum and its wild relative Triticum boeoticum, were also included. The main focus of the analysis was on the genomic composition of TEs as these make up at least 80% of the overall genome content. Although more than 200 TE families were identified in each species, approximately 50% of the overall genome comprised 12-15 TE families. The BARE1 element was the largest contributor to all genomes, contributing more than 10% to the overall genome. We also found that several TE families differ strongly in their abundance between species, indicating that TE families can thrive extremely successfully in one species while going virtually extinct in another. Additionally, the nucleotide diversity of BARE1 populations within individual genomes was measured. Interestingly, the nucleotide diversity in the domesticated barley H. vulgare cv. Barke was found to be twice as high as in its wild progenitor H. spontaneum, suggesting that the domesticated barley gained nucleotide diversity from the addition of different genotypes during the domestication and breeding process. In the rye/wheat lineage, sequence diversity of BARE1 elements was generally higher, suggesting that factors such as geographical distribution and mating systems might play a role in intragenomic TE diversity.
Cereal storage proteins represent one of the most important sources of protein for food and feed and they are coded by multigene families. The expression of the storage protein genes exhibits a temporal fluctuation but also a response to environmental stimuli. Analysis of temporal gene expression combined with genetic variation in large multigene families with high homology among the alleles is very challenging. We designed a rapid qRT-PCR system with the aim of characterising the variation in the expression of hordein genes families. All the known D-, C-, B-, and γ-hordein sequences coding full length open reading frames were collected from commonly available databases. Phylogenetic analysis was performed and the members of the different hordein families were classified into subfamilies. Primer sets were designed to discriminate the gene expression level of whole families, subfamilies or individual members. The specificity of the primer sets was validated before successfully applying them to a cDNA population derived from developing grains of field grown Hordeum vulgare cv. Barke. The results quantify the number of moles of transcript contributed to a particular gene family and its subgroups. More over the results indicate the genotypic specific gene expression. Quantitative RT-PCR with SYBR Green labelling can be a useful technique to follow gene expression levels of large gene families with highly homologues members. We showed variation in the temporal expression of genes coding for barley storage proteins. The results imply that our rapid qRT-PCR system was sensitive enough to identify the presence of alleles and their expression profiles. It can be used to check the temporal fluctuations in hordein expressions or to find differences in their response to environmental stimuli. The method could be extended for cultivar recognition as some of the sequences from the database originated from cv. Golden Promise were not expressed in the studied barley cultivar Barke although showed primer specificity with their cloned DNA sequences.
The Streptomyces phage phiC31 integrase was tested for its feasibility in excising transgenes from the barley genome through site-specific recombination. We produced transgenic barley plants expressing an active phiC31 integrase and crossed them with transgenic barley plants carrying a target locus for recombination. The target sequence involves a reporter gene encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP), which is flanked by the attB and attP recognition sites for the phiC31 integrase. This sequence disruptively separates a gusA coding sequence from an upstream rice actin promoter. We succeeded in producing site-specific recombination events in the hybrid progeny of 11 independent barley plants carrying the above target sequence after crossing with plants carrying a phiC31 expression cassette. Some of the hybrids displayed fully executed recombination. Excision of the GFP gene fostered activation of the gusA gene, as visualized in tissue of hybrid plants by histochemical staining. The recombinant loci were detected in progeny of selfed F(1), even in individuals lacking the phiC31 transgene, which provides evidence of stability and generative transmission of the recombination events. In several plants that displayed incomplete recombination, extrachromosomal excision circles were identified. Besides the technical advance achieved in this study, the generated phiC31 integrase-expressing barley plants provide foundational stock material for use in future approaches to barley genetic improvement, such as the production of marker-free transgenic plants or switching transgene activity.
Silicon (Si) is a beneficial element for plant growth. In barley (Hordeum vulgare), Si uptake by the roots is mainly mediated by a Si channel, Low Silicon1 (HvLsi1), and an efflux transporter, HvLsi2. However, transporters involved in the distribution of Si in the shoots have not been identified. Here, we report the functional characterization of a homolog of HvLsi1, HvLsi6. HvLsi6 showed permeability for Si and localized to the plasma membrane. At the vegetative growth stage, HvLsi6 was expressed in both the roots and shoots. The expression level was unaffected by Si supply. In the roots, HvLsi6 was localized in epidermis and cortex cells of the tips, while in the leaf blades and sheaths, HvLsi6 was only localized at parenchyma cells of vascular bundles. At the reproductive growth stage, high expression of HvLsi6 was also found in the nodes. HvLsi6 in node I was polarly located at the transfer cells surrounding the enlarged vascular bundles toward the numerous xylem vessels. These results suggest that HvLsi6 is involved in Si uptake in the root tips, xylem unloading of Si in leaf blade and sheath, and intervascular transfer of Si in the nodes. Furthermore, HvLsi2 was found to be localized at the parenchyma cell layer adjacent to the transfer cells with opposite polarity of HvLsi6, suggesting that the coupling of HvLsi6 and HvLsi2 is involved in the intervascular transfer of Si at the nodes. Si translocated via the enlarged vascular bundles is unloaded to the transfer cells by HvLsi6, followed by HvLsi2 to reload Si to the diffuse vascular bundles, which are connected to the upper part of the plant, especially the panicles, the ultimate Si sink.
MADS-box genes constitute a large family of transcription factors functioning as key regulators of many processes during plant vegetative and reproductive development. Type II MADS-box genes have been intensively investigated and are mostly involved in vegetative and flowering development. A growing number of studies of Type I MADS-box genes in Arabidopsis, have assigned crucial roles for these genes in gamete and seed development and have demonstrated that a number of Type I MADS-box genes are epigenetically regulated by DNA methylation and histone modifications. However, reports on agronomically important cereals such as barley and wheat are scarce. Here we report the identification and characterization of two Type I-like MADS-box genes, from barley (Hordeum vulgare), a monocot cereal crop of high agronomic importance. Protein sequence and phylogenetic analysis showed that the putative proteins are related to Type I MADS-box proteins, and classified them in a distinct cereal clade. Significant differences in gene expression among seed developmental stages and between barley cultivars with varying seed size were revealed for both genes. One of these genes was shown to be induced by the seed development- and stress-related hormones ABA and JA whereas in situ hybridizations localized the other gene to specific endosperm sub-compartments. The genomic organization of the latter has high conservation with the cereal Type I-like MADS-box homologues and the chromosomal position of both genes is close to markers associated with seed quality traits. DNA methylation differences are present in the upstream and downstream regulatory regions of the barley Type I-like MADS-box genes in two different developmental stages and in response to ABA treatment which may be associated with gene expression differences. Two barley MADS-box genes were studied that are related to Type I MADS-box genes. Differential expression in different seed developmental stages as well as in barley cultivars with different seed size was evidenced for both genes. The two barley Type I MADS-box genes were found to be induced by ABA and JA. DNA methylation differences in different seed developmental stages and after exogenous application of ABA is suggestive of epigenetic regulation of gene expression. The study of barley Type I-like MADS-box genes extends our investigations of gene regulation during endosperm and seed development in a monocot crop like barley.
Time-lapse imaging of dark-grown Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) hypocotyls has revealed new aspects about ethylene signaling. This study expands upon these results by examining ethylene growth response kinetics of seedlings of several plant species. Although the response kinetics varied between the eudicots studied, all had prolonged growth inhibition for as long as ethylene was present. In contrast, with continued application of ethylene, white millet (Panicum miliaceum) seedlings had a rapid and transient growth inhibition response, rice (Oryza sativa 'Nipponbare') seedlings had a slow onset of growth stimulation, and barley (Hordeum vulgare) had a transient growth inhibition response followed, after a delay, by a prolonged inhibition response. Growth stimulation in rice correlated with a decrease in the levels of rice ETHYLENE INSENSTIVE3-LIKE2 (OsEIL2) and an increase in rice F-BOX DOMAIN AND LRR CONTAINING PROTEIN7 transcripts. The gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis inhibitor paclobutrazol caused millet seedlings to have a prolonged growth inhibition response when ethylene was applied. A transient ethylene growth inhibition response has previously been reported for Arabidopsis ethylene insensitive3-1 (ein3-1) eil1-1 double mutants. Paclobutrazol caused these mutants to have a prolonged response to ethylene, whereas constitutive GA signaling in this background eliminated ethylene responses. Sensitivity to paclobutrazol inversely correlated with the levels of EIN3 in Arabidopsis. Wild-type Arabidopsis seedlings treated with paclobutrazol and mutants deficient in GA levels or signaling had a delayed growth recovery after ethylene removal. It is interesting to note that ethylene caused alterations in gene expression that are predicted to increase GA levels in the ein3-1 eil1-1 seedlings. These results indicate that ethylene affects GA levels leading to modulation of ethylene growth inhibition kinetics.
The photoperiod sensitivity gene Ppd-1 influences the timing of flowering in temperate cereals such as wheat and barley. The effect of Ppd-1 on the expression of flowering-time genes was assessed by examining the expression levels of the vernalization genes VRN1 and VRN3/WFT and of two CONSTANS-like genes, WCO1 and TaHd1, during vegetative and reproductive growth stages. Two near-isogenic lines (NILs) were used: the first carried a photoperiod-insensitive allele of Ppd-1 (Ppd-1a-NIL), the other, a photoperiod-sensitive allele (Ppd-1b-NIL). We found that the expression pattern of VRN1 was similar in Ppd-1a-NIL and Ppd-1b-NIL plants, suggesting that VRN1 is not regulated by Ppd-1. Under long day conditions, VRN3/WFT showed similar expression patterns in Ppd-1a-NIL and Ppd-1b-NIL plants. However, expression differed greatly under short day conditions: VRN3/WFT expression was detected in Ppd-1a-NIL plants at the 5-leaf stage when they transited from vegetative to reproductive growth; very low expression was present in Ppd-1b-NIL throughout all growth stages. Thus, the Ppd-1b allele acts to down-regulate VRN3/WFT under short day conditions. WCO1 showed high levels of expression at the vegetative stage, which decreased during the phase transition and reproductive growth stages in both Ppd-1a-NIL and Ppd-1b-NIL plants under short day conditions. By contrast to WCO1, TaHd1 was up-regulated during the reproductive stage. The level of TaHd1 expression was much higher in Ppd-1a-NIL than the Ppd-1b-NIL plants, suggesting that the Ppd-1b allele down-regulates TaHd1 under short day conditions. The present study indicates that down-regulation of VRN3/WFT together with TaHd1 is the cause of late flowering in the Ppd-1b-NIL plants under short day conditions.
The hemibiotrophic fungus Colletotrichum truncatum causes anthracnose disease on lentils and a few other grain legumes. It shows initial symptomless intracellular growth, where colonized host cells remain viable (biotrophy), and then switches to necrotrophic growth, killing the colonized host plant tissues. Here, we report a novel effector gene, CtNUDIX, from C. truncatum that is exclusively expressed during the late biotrophic phase (before the switch to necrotrophy) and elicits a hypersensitive response (HR)-like cell death in tobacco leaves transiently expressing the effector. CtNUDIX homologs, which contain a signal peptide and a Nudix hydrolase domain, may be unique to hemibiotrophic fungal and fungus-like plant pathogens. CtNUDIX lacking a signal peptide or a Nudix motif failed to induce cell death in tobacco. Expression of CtNUDIX:eGFP in tobacco suggested that the fusion protein might act on the host cell plasma membrane. Overexpression of CtNUDIX in C. truncatum and the rice blast pathogen, Magnaporthe oryzae, resulted in incompatibility with the hosts lentil and barley, respectively, by causing an HR-like response in infected host cells associated with the biotrophic invasive hyphae. These results suggest that C. truncatum and possibly M. oryzae elicit cell death to signal the transition from biotrophy to necrotrophy.
The majority of nitrogen accumulating in cereal grains originates from proteins remobilised from vegetative organs. However, interactions between grain filling and remobilisation are poorly understood. We used transcriptome large-scale pyrosequencing of flag leaves, glumes and developing grains to identify cysteine peptidase and N transporter genes playing a role in remobilisation and accumulation of nitrogen in barley. Combination of already known and newly derived sequence information reduced redundancy, increased contig length and identified new members of cysteine peptidase and N transporter gene families. The dataset for N transporter genes was aligned with N transporter amino acid sequences of rice and Arabidopsis derived from Aramemnon database. 57 AAT, 45 NRT1/PTR and 22 OPT unigenes identified by this approach cluster to defined subgroups in the respective phylogenetic trees, among them 25 AAT, 8 NRT1/PTR and 5 OPT full-length sequences. Besides, 59 unigenes encoding cysteine peptidases were identified and subdivided into different families of the papain cysteine peptidase clade. Expression profiling of full-length AAT genes highlighted amino acid permeases as the group showing highest transcriptional activity. HvAAP2 and HvAAP6 are highly expressed in vegetative organs whereas HvAAP3 is grain-specific. Sequence similarities cluster HvAAP2 and the putative transporter HvAAP6 together with Arabidopsis transporters, which are involved in long-distance transfer of amino acids. HvAAP3 is closely related to AtAAP1 and AtAAP8 playing a role in supplying N to developing seeds. An important role in amino acid re-translocation can be considered for HvLHT1 and HvLHT2 which are specifically expressed in glumes and flag leaves, respectively. PCA and K-means clustering of AAT transcript data revealed coordinate developmental stages in flag leaves, glumes and grains. Phloem-specific metabolic compounds are proposed that might signal high grain demands for N to distantly located plant organs. The approach identified cysteine peptidases and specific N transporters of the AAT family as obviously relevant for grain filling and thus, grain yield and quality in barley. Up to now, information is based only on transcript data. To make it relevant for application, the role of identified candidates in sink-source communication has to be analysed in more detail.
Beneficial effects elicited by the root endophyte Piriformospora indica are widely known, but the mechanism by which these are achieved is still unclear. It is proposed that phytohormones produced by the fungal symbiont play a crucial role in the interaction with the plant roots. Biochemical analyses of the underlying biosynthetic pathways for auxin production have shown that, on tryptophan feeding, P. indica can produce the phytohormones indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and indole-3-lactate (ILA) through the intermediate indole-3-pyruvic acid (IPA). Time course transcriptional analyses after exposure to tryptophan designated the piTam1 gene as a key player. A green fluorescence protein (GFP) reporter study and transcriptional analysis of colonized barley roots showed that piTam1 is induced during the biotrophic phase. Piriformospora indica strains in which the piTam1 gene was silenced via an RNA interference (RNAi) approach were compromised in IAA and ILA production and displayed reduced colonization of barley (Hordeum vulgare) roots in the biotrophic phase, but the elicitation of growth promotion was not affected compared with the wild-type situation. Our results suggest that IAA is involved in the establishment of biotrophy in P. indica-barley symbiosis and might represent a compatibility factor in this system.
Fusarium head blight (FHB), caused by Fusarium graminearum, is a devastating disease of small grain cereal crops. FHB causes yield reductions and contamination of grain with trichothecene mycotoxins such as deoxynivalenol (DON). DON inhibits protein synthesis in eukaryotic cells and acts as a virulence factor during fungal pathogenesis, therefore resistance to DON is considered an important component of resistance against FHB. One mechanism of resistance to DON is conversion of DON to DON-3-O-glucoside (D3G). Previous studies showed that expression of the UDP-glucosyltransferase genes HvUGT13248 from barley and AtUGt73C5 (DOGT1) from Arabidopsis thaliana conferred DON resistance to yeast. Over-expression of AtUGt73C5 in Arabidopsis led to increased DON resistance of seedlings but also to dwarfing of transgenic plants due to the formation of brassinosteroid-glucosides. The objectives of this study were to develop transgenic Arabidopsis expressing HvUGT13248, to test for phenotypic changes in growth habit, and the response to DON. Transgenic lines that constitutively expressed the epitope-tagged HvUGT13248 protein exhibited increased resistance to DON in a seed germination assay and converted DON to D3G to a higher extent than the untransformed wild-type. By contrast to the over-expression of DOGT1 in Arabidopsis, which conjugated the brassinosteriod castasterone with a glucoside group resulting in a dwarf phenotype, expression of the barley HvUGT13248 gene did not lead to drastic morphological changes. Consistent with this observation, no castasterone-glucoside formation was detectable in yeast expressing the barley HvUGT13248 gene. This barley UGT is therefore a promising candidate for transgenic approaches aiming to increase DON and Fusarium resistance of crop plants without undesired collateral effects.
The plant hormone ethylene is important to many plant processes from germination through senescence, including responses to in vitro growth and plant regeneration. Knowledge of the number and function of genes that are involved in ethylene biosynthesis and reception is necessary to determine the role of specific genes within gene families known to influence ethylene biosynthesis and other aspects of ethylene function in plants. Our objective was built on previous studies that have established the critical role of ethylene in the in vitro response of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), and that have identified ethylene-related QTL in the barley genome. In this study, we have identified the locations of genes in the barley 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) synthase (ACS), ACC oxidase (ACO), and ethylene receptor (ETR) gene families. Specific primers for PCR amplification of each gene were developed and used to map these genes in the Oregon Wolf Barley mapping population. Five ACS, 8 ACO, and 7 ETR genes were identified and mapped to six of the barley chromosomes. Gene locations were syntenous to the orthologs in rice except for two that mapped to chromosome 6H. Gene duplication was evident for ACO genes on chromosomes 5H and 6H. Gene-specific primers will be useful for determining expression of each gene under various environmental conditions, including in vitro environments, to better understand the role of ethylene. Of the six known QTL for green plant regeneration in barley, three were located near the genes mapped in this study.
The two-spotted spider mite Tetranychus urticae is a damaging pest worldwide with a wide range of host plants and an extreme record of pesticide resistance. Recently, the complete T. urticae genome has been published and showed a proliferation of gene families associated with digestion and detoxification of plant secondary compounds which supports its polyphagous behaviour. To overcome spider mite adaptability a gene pyramiding approach has been developed by co-expressing two barley proteases inhibitors, the cystatin Icy6 and the trypsin inhibitor Itr1 genes in Arabidopsis plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The presence and expression of both transgenes was studied by conventional and quantitative real time RT-PCR assays and by indirect ELISA assays. The inhibitory activity of cystatin and trypsin inhibitor was in vitro analysed using specific substrates. Single and double transformants were used to assess the effects of spider mite infestation. Double transformed lines showed the lowest damaged leaf area in comparison to single transformants and non-transformed controls and different accumulation of H(2)O(2) as defence response in the leaf feeding site, detected by diaminobenzidine staining. Additionally, an impact on endogenous mite cathepsin B- and L-like activities was observed after feeding on Arabidopsis lines, which correlates with a significant increase in the mortality of mites fed on transformed plants. These effects were analysed in view of the expression levels of the target mite protease genes, C1A cysteine peptidase and S1 serine peptidase, identified in the four developmental mite stages (embryo, larvae, nymphs and adults) performed using the RNA-seq information available at the BOGAS T. urticae database. The potential of pyramiding different classes of plant protease inhibitors to prevent plant damage caused by mites as a new tool to prevent pest resistance and to improve pest control is discussed.
Salinity is a major abiotic stress which affects crop plants around the world, resulting in substantial loss of yield and millions of dollars of lost revenue. High levels of Na(+) in shoot tissue have many adverse effects and, crucially, yield in cereals is commonly inversely proportional to the extent of shoot Na(+) accumulation. We therefore need to identify genes, resistant plant cultivars and cellular processes that are involved in salinity tolerance, with the goal of introducing these factors into commercially available crops. Through the use of an Arabidopsis thaliana mapping population, we have identified a highly significant quantitative trait locus (QTL) linked to Na(+) exclusion. Fine mapping of this QTL identified a protein kinase (AtCIPK16), related to AtSOS2, that was significantly up-regulated under salt stress. Greater Na(+) exclusion was associated with significantly higher root expression of AtCIPK16, which is due to differences in the gene's promoter. Constitutive overexpression of the gene in Arabidopsis leads to plants with significant reduction in shoot Na(+) and greater salinity tolerance. amiRNA knock-downs of AtCIPK16 in Arabidopsis show a negative correlation between the expression levels of the gene and the amount of shoot Na(+) . Transgenic barley lines overexpressing AtCIPK16 show increased salinity tolerance.
Manipulation of crops to improve their nutritional value (biofortification) and optimisation of plants for removal of toxic metals from contaminated soils (phytoremediation) are major goals. Identification of membrane transporters with roles in zinc and cadmium transport would be useful for both aspects. The P(1B)-ATPases play important roles in heavy metal allocation and detoxification in Arabidopsis and it is now important to elucidate their roles in monocots. We identified nine P(1B)-ATPases in barley and this study focuses on the functional characterization of HvHMA2, providing evidence for its role in heavy metal transport. HvHMA2 was cloned using information from EST analysis and 5' RACE. It possesses the conserved aspartate that is phosphorylated during the reaction cycle of P-type pumps and has motifs and key residues characteristic of P(1B)-ATPases, falling into the P(1B-2) subclass. Homologous sequences occur in three major sub-families of the Poaceae (Gramineae). Heterologous expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae demonstrates that HvHMA2 functions as a Zn and Cd pump. Mutagenesis studies show that proposed cation coordination sites of the P(1B-2) pumps are crucial for the metal responses conferred by HvHMA2 in yeast. HvHMA2 expression suppresses the Zn-deficient phenotype of the Arabidopsis hma2hma4 mutant indicating that HvHMA2 functions as a Zn pump in planta and could play a role in root to shoot Zn transport. When expressed in Arabidopsis, HvHMA2 localises predominantly to the plasma membrane.
Transcription factors (TFs), microRNAs (miRNAs), small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and other functional non-coding small RNAs (sRNAs) are important gene regulators. Comparison of sRNA expression profiles between transgenic barley over-expressing a drought tolerant TF (TaDREB3) and non-transgenic control barley revealed many group-specific sRNAs. In addition, 42% of the shared sRNAs were differentially expressed between the two groups (|log(2)| >1). Furthermore, TaDREB3-derived sRNAs were only detected in transgenic barley despite the existence of homologous genes in non-transgenic barley. These results demonstrate that the TF strongly affects the expression of sRNAs and siRNAs could in turn affect the TF stability. The TF also affects size distribution and abundance of sRNAs including miRNAs. About half of the sRNAs in each group were derived from chloroplast. A sRNA derived from tRNA-His(GUG) encoded by the chloroplast genome is the most abundant sRNA, accounting for 42.2% of the total sRNAs in transgenic barley and 28.9% in non-transgenic barley. This sRNA, which targets a gene (TC245676) involved in biological processes, was only present in barley leaves but not roots. 124 and 136 miRNAs were detected in transgenic and non-transgenic barley, respectively. miR156 was the most abundant miRNA and up-regulated in transgenic barley, while miR168 was the most abundant miRNA and up-regulated in non-transgenic barley. Eight out of 20 predicted novel miRNAs were differentially expressed between the two groups. All the predicted novel miRNA targets were validated using a degradome library. Our data provide an insight into the effect of TF on the expression of sRNAs in barley.
Fructans are soluble carbohydrates with health benefits and possible roles in plant adaptation. Fructan biosynthetic genes were isolated using comparative genomics and physical mapping followed by BAC sequencing in barley. Genes encoding sucrose:sucrose 1-fructosyltransferase (1-SST), fructan:fructan 1-fructosyltransferase (1-FFT) and sucrose:fructan 6-fructosyltransferase (6-SFT) were clustered together with multiple copies of vacuolar invertase genes and a transposable element on two barley BAC. Intron-exon structures of the genes were similar. Phylogenetic analysis of the fructosyltransferases and invertases in the Poaceae showed that the fructan biosynthetic genes may have evolved from vacuolar invertases. Quantitative real-time PCR was performed using leaf RNA extracted from three wheat cultivars grown under different conditions. The 1-SST, 1-FFT and 6-SFT genes had correlated expression patterns in our wheat experiment and in existing barley transcriptome database. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers were developed and successfully mapped to a major QTL region affecting wheat grain fructan accumulation in two independent wheat populations. The alleles controlling high- and low- fructan in parental lines were also found to be associated in fructan production in a diverse set of 128 wheat lines. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report on the mapping and sequencing of a fructan biosynthetic gene cluster and in particular, the isolation of a novel 1-FFT gene from barley.
A large number of effector candidates have been identified recently in powdery mildew fungi. However, their roles and how they perform their functions remain unresolved. In this study, we made use of host-induced gene silencing and confirmed that the secreted barley powdery mildew effector candidate, CSEP0055, contributes to the aggressiveness of the fungus. This result suggests that CSEP0055 is involved in the suppression of plant defence. A yeast two-hybrid screen indicated that CSEP0055 interacts with members of the barley pathogenesis-related protein families, PR1 and PR17. Interaction with PR17c was confirmed by bimolecular fluorescence complementation analyses. Down-regulation and over-expression of PR17c in epidermal cells of barley confirmed that this protein is important for penetration resistance against the powdery mildew fungus. In line with this, PR17c was found to be apoplastic, localizing to the papillae formed in response to this fungus. The CSEP0055 transcript did not start to accumulate until 24 h after inoculation. This suggests that this gene is expressed too late to influence primary penetration events, but rather sustains the fungus at sites of secondary penetration, where PR17c appears to be able to accumulate.
Reverse transcription coupled with real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) is a frequently used method for gene expression profiling. Reference genes (RGs) are commonly employed to normalize gene expression data. A limited information exist on the gene expression and profiling in developing barley caryopsis. Expression stability was assessed by measuring the cycle threshold (Ct) range and applying both the GeNorm (pair-wise comparison of geometric means) and Normfinder (model-based approach) principles for the calculation. Here, we have identified a set of four RGs suitable for studying gene expression in the developing barley caryopsis. These encode the proteins GAPDH, HSP90, HSP70 and ubiquitin. We found a correlation between the frequency of occurrence of a transcript in silico and its suitability as an RG. This set of RGs was tested by comparing the normalized level of β-amylase (β-amy1) transcript with directly measured quantities of the BMY1 gene product in the developing barley caryopsis. This panel of genes could be used for other gene expression studies, as well as to optimize β-amy1 analysis for study of the impact of β-amy1 expression upon barley end-use quality.
The aim of the present work was to investigate the occurrence of the cell cycle during germination as related to thermodormancy in barley (Hordeum vulgare L., cv. Pewter) grains in relation with abscisic acid (ABA) by: (i) flow cytometry to determine the progression of the cell cycle; and (ii) reverse transcription-PCR to characterize the expression of some important genes involved in cell-cycle regulation. In dry embryos, cells are mostly (82%) arrested in G1 phase of the cell cycle, the remaining cells being in the G2 (17%) or S phase (0.9%). Germination at 20 °C was associated with an increase in the nuclei population in G2 and S (up to 32.5-44.5 and 9.2-11.3%, respectively, after 18-24h). At 30 °C, partial reactivation of the cell cycle occurred in embryos of dormant grains that did not germinate. Incubation with 50mM hydroxyurea suggests that thermodormancy resulted in a blocking of the nuclei in the S phase. In dry dormant grains, transcripts of CDKA1, CYCA3, KRP4, and WEE1 were present, while those of CDKB1, CDKD1, CYCB1, and CYCD4 were not detected. Incubation at 30 °C resulted in a strong reduction of CDKB1, CYCB1, and CYCD4 expression and overexpression of CDK1 and KRP4. ABA had a similar effect as incubation at 30 °C on the expression of CDKB1, CYCB1, and CYCD4, but did not increase that of CDK1 and KRP4. Patterns of gene expression are discussed with regard to thermodormancy expression and ABA.
Cultivation of wheat and barley plants under temperature stress fluctuations was the reason of reduction of acid protein common storage in the tissues more than 25% and the reason of reduction of peroxidase and superoxide dismutase common activities. There were no changes of common phenoloxidase activity. Activity redistribution between separate fractions of enzyme spectra were linked with enzyme expression changes. Alteration of peroxidase/oxidase ratio for separate fractions of electrophoretical spectra has been defined as a result of extreme temperature influence over a period of plant growing. At the same time there were no alterations in peroxidase/superoxide reductase fraction ratio in seedlings. The Vrn1-loci did not have a single meaning for expression of investigated oxidoreductases because their influence was determined by the "organism-environment" definite situation. In "normal" growth circumstances there was no correlation between the type of development and qualitative and quantitative characteristics of oxidoreductase spectra. The alteration of definite enzyme izoform degree in forming of plant stress response was different for spring and winter genotypes that testifies dependence of the functional state of the probed enzymes on allelic composition of locus Vrn1.
Cell specification and differentiation in the endosperm of cereals starts at the maternal-filial boundary and generates the endosperm transfer cells (ETCs). Besides the importance in assimilate transfer, ETCs are proposed to play an essential role in the regulation of endosperm differentiation by affecting development of proximate endosperm tissues. We attempted to identify signalling elements involved in early endosperm differentiation by using a combination of laser-assisted microdissection and 454 transcriptome sequencing. 454 sequencing of the differentiating ETC region from the syncytial state until functionality in transfer processes captured a high proportion of novel transcripts which are not available in existing barley EST databases. Intriguingly, the ETC-transcriptome showed a high abundance of elements of the two-component signalling (TCS) system suggesting an outstanding role in ETC differentiation. All components and subfamilies of the TCS, including distinct kinds of membrane-bound receptors, have been identified to be expressed in ETCs. The TCS system represents an ancient signal transduction system firstly discovered in bacteria and has previously been shown to be co-opted by eukaryotes, like fungi and plants, whereas in animals and humans this signalling route does not exist. Transcript profiling of TCS elements by qRT-PCR suggested pivotal roles for specific phosphorelays activated in a coordinated time flow during ETC cellularization and differentiation. ETC-specificity of transcriptionally activated TCS phosphorelays was assessed for early differentiation and cellularization contrasting to an extension of expression to other grain tissues at the beginning of ETC maturation. Features of candidate genes of distinct phosphorelays and transcriptional activation of genes putatively implicated in hormone signalling pathways hint at a crosstalk of hormonal influences, putatively ABA and ethylene, and TCS signalling. Our findings suggest an integral function for the TCS in ETC differentiation possibly coupled to sequent hormonal regulation by ABA and ethylene.
Malted barley is an important ingredient used in the brewing and distilling industry worldwide. In this study, we used a proteomics approach to investigate the biochemical function of previously identified quantitative trait loci (QTLs) on barley chromosomes 1H and 4H that influence malting quality. Using a subset of barley introgression lines containing wild barley (Hordeum vulgare ssp. spontaneum) alleles at these QTLs, we validated that wild barley alleles at the chromosome 1H QTL reduced overall malting quality, whereas wild barley alleles at the chromosome 4H QTL improved the malting quality parameters α-amylase activity, VZ45, and Kolbach index compared to the control genotype Scarlett. 2DE was used to detect changes in protein expression during the first 72 h of micromalting associated with these QTLs. In total, 16 protein spots showed a significant change in expression between the introgression lines and Scarlett, of which 14 were successfully identified with MS. Notably, the wild barley alleles in the line containing the chromosome 4H QTL showed a sixfold increased expression of a limit dextrinase inhibitor. The possible role of the identified proteins in malting quality is discussed. The knowledge gained will assist ongoing research toward cloning the genes underlying these important QTL.
The mechanisms of root hair formation have been studied extensively in Arabidopsis but knowledge about these processes in monocot species is still limited, especially in relation to the proteome level. The aim of this study was to identify the proteins that are involved in the initiation and the early stage of root hair tip growth in barley using two-dimensional (2D) electrophoresis and mass spectrometry. A comparison of proteins that accumulate differentially in two root hair mutants and their respective parent varieties resulted in the identification of 13 proteins that take part in several processes related to the root hair morphogenesis, such as the control of vesicular trafficking, ROS signalling and homeostasis, signal transduction by phospholipids metabolism and ATP synthesis. Among the identified proteins, two ATP synthases, two ABC transporters, a small GTPase from the SAR1 family, a PDI-like protein, a monodehydroascorbate reductase, a C2 domain-containing protein and a Wali7 domain-containing protein were found. This study is the first report on the proteins identified in the initial stage of root hair formation in barley and gives new insights into the mechanisms of root hair morphogenesis in a monocot species.
During the early stages of seed development many genes are under dynamic regulation to ensure the proper differentiation and establishment of the tissue that will constitute the mature grain. To investigate how miRNA regulation contributes to this process in barley, a combination of small RNA and mRNA degradome analyses were used to identify miRNAs and their targets. Our analysis identified 84 known miRNAs and 7 new miRNAs together with 96 putative miRNA target genes regulated through a slicing mechanism in grain tissues during the first 15 days post anthesis. We also identified many potential miRNAs including several belonging to known miRNA families. Our data gave us evidence for an increase in miRNA-mediated regulation during the transition between pre-storage and storage phases. Potential miRNA targets were found in various signalling pathways including components of four phytohormone pathways (ABA, GA, auxin, ethylene) and the defence response to powdery mildew infection. Among the putative miRNA targets we identified were two essential genes controlling the GA response, a GA3oxidase1 and a homolog of the receptor GID1, and a homolog of the ACC oxidase which catalyses the last step of ethylene biosynthesis. We found that two MLA genes are potentially miRNA regulated, establishing a direct link between miRNAs and the R gene response. Our dataset provides a useful source of information on miRNA regulation during the early development of cereal grains and our analysis suggests that miRNAs contribute to the control of development of the cereal grain, notably through the regulation of phytohormone response pathways.
Carboxypeptidase I was purified from triticale grains (×Triticosecale Wittm.) by a 5-step purification procedure including gel filtration, cation-exchange chromatography and affinity chromatography. The enzyme was purified 595.9 fold with a 1.58% recovery. Triticale carboxypeptidase I is a homodimer with a molecular weight of 124.2 kDa and a subunit weight of 55.2 kDa. Each subunit is composed of two polypeptide chains (33.4 and 21.3 kDa). Serine was found in the active site of triticale carboxypeptidase I; DFP (diisopropylflourophosphate) and other applied inhibitors of serine proteases inhibited the enzyme activity. Triticale carboxypeptidase I hydrolyzes N-CBZ-dipeptide (N-carbobenzoxy-dipeptide) substrates at low pH. N-CBZ-Phe-Ala, N-CBZ-Phe-Leu and N-CBZ-Ala-Met were hydrolyzed with the highest rates. The lowest K(m) value and the highest k(cat)/K(m) ratio were observed for hydrolysis of N-CBZ-Phe-Ala. Studies on the amino acid sequence revealed that the purified enzyme is homologous to carboxypeptidase I from barley. Analyses of conserved regions in the sequence of triticale carboxypeptidase I revealed the presence of Ser, Asp and His that compose the catalytic triad. Intact storage proteins were poor substrates for carboxypeptidases. Carboxypeptidase I together with carboxypeptidase III effectively degraded albumins proteolytically modified by endopeptidase EP8. Modified globulins were degraded at a slower rate, and all three carboxypeptidases were required for a significantly increased activity. Studies of the expression of the carboxypeptidase I gene revealed that the synthesis of the enzyme occurs mainly in the scutellum of the grain. The enzyme is also expressed in the aleurone layer of the grains, although its function in this tissue is unknown.
WRKY proteins represent a large family of transcription factors (TF), involved in plant development and defense. In all, 60 unique barley TF have been annotated that contain the WRKY domain; 26 of these are represented on the Barley1 GeneChip. Time-course expression profiles of these 26 HvWRKY TF were analyzed to investigate their role in mildew locus a (Mla)-mediated immunity to Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei, causal agent of powdery mildew disease. Inoculation-responsive, Mla-specified interactions with B. graminis f. sp. hordei revealed that 12 HvWRKY were differentially expressed: 10 highly upregulated and two significantly downregulated. Barley stripe mosaic virus-induced gene silencing of HvWRKY10, HvWRKY19, and HvWRKY28 compromised resistance-gene-mediated defense to powdery mildew in genotypes harboring both Rar1-dependent and Rar1-independent Mla alleles, indicating that these WRKY TF play key roles in effector-triggered immunity. Comprehensive yeast two-hybrid analyses, however, did not reveal a direct interaction between these three nuclear-localized WRKY TF and MLA. Transient overexpression of all three WRKY TF in single cells expressing Mlo, which encodes a negative regulator of penetration resistance, significantly decreased susceptibility. Taken together, these loss- and gain-of-function studies demonstrate that HvWRKY10, HvWRKY19, and HvWRKY28 positively regulate the barley transcriptome in response to invasion by B. graminis f. sp. hordei.
The awn, an apical extension from the lemma of the spikelet, plays important roles in seed dispersal, burial, and photosynthesis. Barley typically has long awns, but short-awn variants exist. The short awn 2 (lks2) gene, which produces awns about 50% shorter than normal, is a natural variant that is restricted to Eastern Asia. Positional cloning revealed that Lks2 encodes a SHI-family transcription factor. Allelism tests showed that lks2 is allelic to unbranched style 4 (ubs4) and breviaristatum-d (ari-d), for which the phenotypes are very short awn and sparse stigma hairs. The gene identity was validated by 25 mutant alleles with lesions in the Lks2 gene. Of these, 17 affected either or both conserved regions: the zinc-binding RING-finger motif and the IGGH domain. Lks2 is highly expressed in awns and pistils. Histological observations of longitudinal awn sections showed that the lks2 short-awn phenotype resulted from reduced cell number. Natural variants of lks2 were classified into three types, but all shared a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) that causes a proline-to-leucine change at position 245 in the IGGH domain. All three lks2 natural variants were regarded as weak alleles because their awn and pistil phenotypes are mild compared with those of the 25 mutant alleles. Natural variants of lks2 found in the east of China and the Himalayas had considerably different sequences in the regions flanking the critical SNP, suggesting independent origins. The available results suggest that the lks2 allele might have a selective advantage in the adaptation of barley to high-precipitation areas of Eastern Asia.
Germination is a unique developmental transition from metabolically quiescent seed to actively growing seedling that requires an ensemble of hydrolases for coordinated nutrient mobilization to support heterotrophic growth until autotrophic photosynthesis is established. This study reveals two crucial transcription factors, MYBS1 and MYBGA, present in rice (Oryza sativa) and barley (Hordeum vulgare), that function to integrate diverse nutrient starvation and gibberellin (GA) signaling pathways during germination of cereal grains. Sugar represses but sugar starvation induces MYBS1 synthesis and its nuclear translocation. GA antagonizes sugar repression by enhancing conuclear transport of the GA-inducible MYBGA with MYBS1 and the formation of a stable bipartite MYB-DNA complex to activate the α-amylase gene. We further discovered that not only sugar but also nitrogen and phosphate starvation signals converge and interconnect with GA to promote the conuclear import of MYBS1 and MYBGA, resulting in the expression of a large set of GA-inducible but functionally distinct hydrolases, transporters, and regulators associated with mobilization of the full complement of nutrients to support active seedling growth in cereals.
Ruminal wall metabolism was studied in nonlactating heifers by altering the carbohydrate (CHO) digestion site between rumen and intestine. The CHO digestion site was estimated from in situ and total-tract digestibility of control (CONT) diets and diets supplemented with corn (CRN), barley (BARL), or soy hulls (SOYH). Ruminal epithelial metabolism regulating gene expression, morphology, and nutrient delivery was assessed from a combination of rumen volatile fatty acid (VFA) concentration, biopsies for papilla morphology, and expression of putative metabolic regulatory genes encoding enzymes that facilitate VFA utilization. Digestible dry matter and CHO intake were 25 and 45% higher, respectively, in the supplemented diets than in CONT diets. Fiber supplementation increased the intestinal and decreased ruminal CHO digestion. Ruminal nonfiber CHO digestibility was 10% lower in CRN than with the high rumen-degradable supplement. The CONT heifers had lowest total ruminal VFA and highest acetate concentration relative to the other treatments. Total VFA concentration in BARL and CRN diets tended to be higher than in SOYH. The SOYH diet tended to reduce papilla dimension relative to CRN and BARL. The CRN diet tended to increase papilla surface area relative to BARL and SOYH. Gene expression of propionyl-coenzyme A carboxylase was higher in CRN and BARL than in SOYH diets, and tended to be higher in CRN than in BARL and SOYH diets. Lactate dehydrogenase and butyryl coenzyme A synthase gene transcripts tended to be higher in CONT than in the supplemented treatments. Thus, rumen epithelial expression of genes involved in VFA metabolism and ruminal wall-structure development are influenced by other regulatory mechanism that is not directly affected by local signals. The in situ methods used are a useful tool for differentiating ruminal from extraruminal nutrient supply.
The circadian clock is an endogenous mechanism that coordinates biological processes with daily changes in the environment. In plants, circadian rhythms contribute to both agricultural productivity and evolutionary fitness. In barley, the photoperiod response regulator and flowering-time gene Ppd-H1 is orthologous to the Arabidopsis core-clock gene PRR7. However, relatively little is known about the role of Ppd-H1 and other components of the circadian clock in temperate crop species. In this study, we identified barley clock orthologs and tested the effects of natural genetic variation at Ppd-H1 on diurnal and circadian expression of clock and output genes from the photoperiod-response pathway. Barley clock orthologs HvCCA1, HvGI, HvPRR1, HvPRR37 (Ppd-H1), HvPRR73, HvPRR59 and HvPRR95 showed a high level of sequence similarity and conservation of diurnal and circadian expression patterns, when compared to Arabidopsis. The natural mutation at Ppd-H1 did not affect diurnal or circadian cycling of barley clock genes. However, the Ppd-H1 mutant was found to be arrhythmic under free-running conditions for the photoperiod-response genes HvCO1, HvCO2, and the MADS-box transcription factor and vernalization responsive gene Vrn-H1. We suggest that the described eudicot clock is largely conserved in the monocot barley. However, genetic differentiation within gene families and differences in the function of Ppd-H1 suggest evolutionary modification in the angiosperm clock. Our data indicates that natural variation at Ppd-H1 does not affect the expression level of clock genes, but controls photoperiodic output genes. Circadian control of Vrn-H1 in barley suggests that this vernalization responsive gene is also controlled by the photoperiod-response pathway. Structural and functional characterization of the barley circadian clock will set the basis for future studies of the adaptive significance of the circadian clock in Triticeae species.
The barley pathogen Rhynchosporium commune secretes necrosis-inducing proteins NIP1, NIP2, and NIP3. Expression analysis revealed that NIP1 transcripts appear to be present in fungal spores already, whereas NIP2 and NIP3 are synthesized after inoculation of host plants. To assess the contribution of the three effector proteins to disease development, deletion mutants were generated. The development of these fungal mutants on four barley cultivars was quantified in comparison with that of the parent wild-type strain and with two fungal strains failing to secrete an "active" NIP1 avirulence protein, using quantitative polymerase chain reaction as well as microscopic imaging after fungal green fluorescent protein tagging. The impact of the three deletions varied quantitatively depending on the host genotype, suggesting that the activities of the fungal effectors add up to produce stronger growth patterns and symptom development. Alternatively, recognition events of differing intensities may be converted into defense gene expression in a quantitative manner.
The high level of conservation of genes that regulate DNA replication and repair indicates that they may serve as a source of information on the origin and evolution of the species and makes them a reliable system for the identification of cross-species homologs. Studies that had been conducted to date shed light on the processes of DNA replication and repair in bacteria, yeast and mammals. However, there is still much to be learned about the process of DNA damage repair in plants. These studies, which were conducted mainly using bioinformatics tools, enabled the list of genes that participate in various pathways of DNA repair in Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh to be outlined; however, information regarding these mechanisms in crop plants is still very limited. A similar, functional approach is particularly difficult for a species whose complete genomic sequences are still unavailable. One of the solutions is to apply ESTs (Expressed Sequence Tags) as the basis for gene identification. For the construction of the barley EST DNA Replication and Repair Database (bEST-DRRD), presented here, the Arabidopsis nucleotide and protein sequences involved in DNA replication and repair were used to browse for and retrieve the deposited sequences, derived from four barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) sequence databases, including the "Barley Genome version 0.05" database (encompassing ca. 90% of barley coding sequences) and from two databases covering the complete genomes of two monocot models: Oryza sativa L. and Brachypodium distachyon L. in order to identify homologous genes. Sequences of the categorised Arabidopsis queries are used for browsing the repositories, which are located on the ViroBLAST platform. The bEST-DRRD is currently used in our project during the identification and validation of the barley genes involved in DNA repair. The presented database provides information about the Arabidopsis genes involved in DNA replication and repair, their expression patterns and models of protein interactions. It was designed and established to provide an open-access tool for the identification of monocot homologs of known Arabidopsis genes that are responsible for DNA-related processes. The barley genes identified in the project are currently being analysed to validate their function.
Plants under attack by pathogens and pests can mount a range of inducible defences, encompassing both chemical and structural changes. Although few reports exist, it appears that plants responding to pathogen or herbivore attack, or chemical defence elicitors, may produce progeny that are better able to defend themselves against attack, compared with progeny from unthreatened or untreated plants. To date, all research on transgenerational effects of biotic stress has been conducted on dicotyledenous plants. We examined the possibility that resistance induced by application of chemical defence elicitors to the monocot plant barley, could be passed on to the progeny. Plants were treated with acibenzolar-S-methyl (ASM) or saccharin, and grain harvested at maturity. Germination was unaffected in seed collected from plants treated with saccharin, while germination was reduced significantly in seed collected from ASM-treated plants. The subsequent growth of the seedlings was not significantly different in any of the treatments. However, plants from parents treated with both ASM or saccharin exhibited significantly enhanced resistance to infection by Rhynchosporium commune, despite not being treated with elicitor themselves. These data hint at the possibility of producing disease-resistant plants by exposing parent plants to chemical elicitors.
Plant intracellular immune receptors comprise a large number of multi-domain proteins resembling animal NOD-like receptors (NLRs). Plant NLRs typically recognize isolate-specific pathogen-derived effectors, encoded by avirulence (AVR) genes, and trigger defense responses often associated with localized host cell death. The barley MLA gene is polymorphic in nature and encodes NLRs of the coiled-coil (CC)-NB-LRR type that each detects a cognate isolate-specific effector of the barley powdery mildew fungus. We report the systematic analyses of MLA10 activity in disease resistance and cell death signaling in barley and Nicotiana benthamiana. MLA10 CC domain-triggered cell death is regulated by highly conserved motifs in the CC and the NB-ARC domains and by the C-terminal LRR of the receptor. Enforced MLA10 subcellular localization, by tagging with a nuclear localization sequence (NLS) or a nuclear export sequence (NES), shows that MLA10 activity in cell death signaling is suppressed in the nucleus but enhanced in the cytoplasm. By contrast, nuclear localized MLA10 is sufficient to mediate disease resistance against powdery mildew fungus. MLA10 retention in the cytoplasm was achieved through attachment of a glucocorticoid receptor hormone-binding domain (GR), by which we reinforced the role of cytoplasmic MLA10 in cell death signaling. Together with our data showing an essential and sufficient nuclear MLA10 activity in disease resistance, this suggests a bifurcation of MLA10-triggered cell death and disease resistance signaling in a compartment-dependent manner.
In plants, several classes of non-coding small RNA (sRNA) have been shown to be important regulators of gene expression in a wide variety of biological processes. The two main classes of sRNA, the small-interfering RNA (siRNA) and microRNA (miRNA) classes, are well documented and several experimental approaches have been developed to allow for their routine isolation and detection from plant tissues. Here, we describe the current methods used for the isolation of total RNA and the subsequent enrichment of low-molecular-weight (LMW) RNA species, as well as to outline how sRNAs are detected from such nucleic acid preparations.
In this study, data is presented how dark-grown, embryogenic barley callus cells respond to cold without any light-dependent, chloroplast-related mechanism, independently of the systemic signals. The expression of HvCBF9, HvCBF14, and HvCOR14b genes, members of one of the most important cold-inducible regulatory system, was measured by real-time PCR. Characteristic of the cold response was similar in the crowns of seedlings and in dark-grown callus cultures, however, gene expression levels were lower in calli. Endogenous concentration of auxins, abscisic acid, and salicylic acid did not change, but phaseic acid and neophaseic acid showed robust accumulation after cold acclimation. Freezing tolerance of the cultures was also higher after 7 days of cold-hardening. The results suggest the presence of a basal, light-independent, cold-responsive activation of the CBF-COR14b pathway in barley cultures. The effects of Dicamba, the exogenous auxin analog used for maintaining tissue cultures were also studied. Dicamba seems to be a general enhancer of the gene expression and physiological responses to cold stress, but has no specific effect on the activation. Our data along with previous findings show that this system might be a suitable model for studying certain basic cellular mechanisms involved in the cold acclimation process in cereals.
Plant pathogens elicit dramatic changes in the expression of host genes during both compatible and incompatible interactions. Gene expression profiling studies of plant-pathogen interactions have only considered messenger RNAs (mRNAs) present in total RNA, which contains subpopulations of actively translated mRNAs associated with polyribosomes (polysomes) and non-translated mRNAs that are not associated with polysomes. The goal of this study was to enhance previous gene expression analyses by identifying host mRNAs that become differentially associated with polysomes following pathogen inoculation. Total and polysomal RNA were extracted from barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants at 32 h after inoculation with Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei, and Arabidopsis thaliana plants at 10 days after inoculation with Turnip mosaic virus. Gene expression profiles were obtained for each pathosystem, which represent diverse plant host-obligate pathogen interactions. Using this approach, host mRNAs were identified that were differentially associated with polysomes in response to pathogen treatment. Approximately 18% and 26% of mRNAs represented by probe sets on the Affymetrix Barley1 and Arabidopsis ATH1 GeneChips, respectively, differentially accumulated in the two populations in one or more combinations of treatment and genotype. Gene ontology analysis of mRNAs sharing the same pattern of accumulation in total and polysomal RNA identified gene sets that contained a significant number of functionally related annotations, suggesting both transcript accumulation and recruitment to polyribosomes are coordinately regulated in these systems.
We aimed to examine different immunological aspects of β-glucans derived from different food sources (oat, barley and shiitake) on phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)-differentiated THP-1 macrophages. Commercially purified barley β-glucan (commercial BG) and lentinan were included to compare β-glucans from the same origin but different degree of purity and processing. Chemical composition and molecular weight distribution of β-glucan samples were determined. Inflammation-related gene expression kinetics (IL-1β, IL-8, nuclear factor kappa B [NF-κB] and IL-10) after 3, 6 and 24 h of stimulation with 100 μg/mL β-glucan were investigated. All tested β-glucans mildly upregulated the observed inflammation-related genes with differential gene expression patterns. Similar gene expression kinetics, but different fold induction values, was found for the crude β-glucan extracts and their corresponding commercial forms. Pre-incubation of THP-1 macrophages with β-glucans prior to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure decreased the induction of inflammation-related genes compared to LPS treatment. No production of nitric oxide (NO) and hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂) was detected in β-glucan stimulated THP-1 macrophages. Phagocytic activity was not different after stimulation by β-glucan samples. Based on these in vitro analyses, it can be concluded that the analysed β-glucans have varying levels of immunomodulating properties, which are likely related to structure, molecular weight and compositional characteristic of β-glucan.
1. Microbial β-1,3-1,4-glucanases improve the nutritive value of barley-based diets for poultry by effectively decreasing the degree of polymerisation of the anti-nutritive soluble β-glucans. Glycoside hydrolases (GHs) acting on recalcitrant polysaccharides display a modular architecture comprising a catalytic domain linked to one or more non-catalytic Carbohydrate-Binding Modules (CBMs). 2. GHs and CBMs have been classified in different families based on primary structure similarity (see CAZy webpage at http://www.cazy.org ). The role of CBMs is to anchor the appended GHs into their target substrates, therefore eliciting the efficient hydrolysis of structural carbohydrates. 3. Here we describe the biochemical properties of the family 16 GH from Clostridium thermocellum, termed CtGlc16A. CtGlc16A is a thermostable enzyme that specifically acts on β-1,3-1,4-glucans with a remarkable catalytic activity (38000 U/mg protein). 4. CtGlc16A, individually or fused to the family 11 β-glucan-binding domain of cellulase CtLic26A-Cel5E of C. thermocellum, was used to supplement a highly viscous barley-based diet for broilers. 5. The data showed that birds fed on diets supplemented with the recombinant enzymes displayed an improved performance when compared with birds given diets not supplemented with exogenous enzymes. However, inclusion of the non-catalytic CBMs had no influence on the capacity of CtGlc16A to reduce the anti-nutritive effects of soluble β-1,3-1,4-glucans. 6. The data suggest that at elevated dosage rates, CBMs might be unable to potentiate the catalytic activity of appended catalytic domains; this effect may only be revealed when feed enzymes are incorporated at low levels.
Trichoderma reesei is a widely used industrial strain for cellulase production, but its low yield of β-glucosidase has prevented its industrial value. In the hydrolysis process of cellulolytic residues by T. reesei, a disaccharide known as cellobiose is produced and accumulates, which inhibits further cellulases production. This problem can be solved by adding β-glucosidase, which hydrolyzes cellobiose to glucose for fermentation. It is, therefore, of high vvalue to construct T. reesei strains which can produce sufficient β-glucosidase and other hydrolytic enzymes, especially when those enzymes are capable of tolerating extreme conditions such as high temperature and acidic or alkali pH. We successfully engineered a thermostable β-glucosidase gene from the fungus Periconia sp. into the genome of T. reesei QM9414 strain. The engineered T. reesei strain showed about 10.5-fold (23.9 IU/mg) higher β-glucosidase activity compared to the parent strain (2.2 IU/mg) after 24 h of incubation. The transformants also showed very high total cellulase activity (about 39.0 FPU/mg) at 24 h of incubation whereas the parent strain almost did not show any total cellulase activity at 24 h of incubation. The recombinant β-glucosidase showed to be thermotolerant and remains fully active after two-hour incubation at temperatures as high as 60°C. Additionally, it showed to be active at a wide pH range and maintains about 88% of its maximal activity after four-hour incubation at 25°C in a pH range from 3.0 to 9.0. Enzymatic hydrolysis assay using untreated, NaOH, or Organosolv pretreated barley straw as well as microcrystalline cellulose showed that the transformed T. reesei strains released more reducing sugars compared to the parental strain. The recombinant T. reesei overexpressing Periconia sp. β-glucosidase in this study showed higher β-glucosidase and total cellulase activities within a shorter incubation time (24 h) as well as higher hydrolysis activity using biomass residues. These features suggest that the transformants can be used for β-glucosidase production as well as improving the biomass conversion using cellulases.
Large numbers of sequences are now readily available for many plant species, allowing easy identification of homologous genes. However, orthologous gene identification across multiple species is made difficult by evolutionary events such as whole-genome or segmental duplications. Several developmental atlases of gene expression have been produced in the past couple of years, and it may be possible to use these transcript abundance data to refine ortholog predictions. In this study, clusters of homologous genes between seven plant species - Arabidopsis, soybean, Medicago truncatula, poplar, barley, maize and rice - were identified. Following this, a pipeline to rank homologs within gene clusters by both sequence and expression profile similarity was devised by determining equivalent tissues between species, with the best expression profile match being termed the 'expressolog'. Five electronic fluorescent pictograph (eFP) browsers were produced as part of this effort, to aid in visualization of gene expression data and to complement existing eFP browsers at the Bio-Array Resource (BAR). Within the eFP browser framework, these expression profile similarity rankings were incorporated into an Expressolog Tree Viewer to allow cross-species homolog browsing by both sequence and expression pattern similarity. Global analyses showed that orthologs with the highest sequence similarity do not necessarily exhibit the highest expression pattern similarity. Other orthologs may show different expression patterns, indicating that such genes may require re-annotation or more specific annotation. Ultimately, it is envisaged that this pipeline will aid in improvement of the functional annotation of genes and translational plant research.
Retranslocation of iron (Fe) from source leaves to sinks requires soluble Fe binding forms. As much of the Fe is protein-bound and associated with the leaf nitrogen (N) status, we investigated the role of N in Fe mobilization and retranslocation under N deficiency- vs dark-induced leaf senescence.  By excluding Fe retranslocation from the apoplastic root pool, Fe concentrations in source and sink leaves from hydroponically grown barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants were determined in parallel with the concentrations of potential Fe chelators and the expression of genes involved in phytosiderophore biosynthesis.  N supply showed opposing effects on Fe pools in source leaves, inhibiting Fe export out of source leaves under N sufficiency but stimulating Fe export from source leaves under N deficiency, which partially alleviated Fe deficiency-induced chlorosis. Both triggers of leaf senescence, shading and N deficiency, enhanced NICOTIANAMINE SYNTHASE2 gene expression, soluble Fe pools in source leaves, and phytosiderophore and citrate rather than nicotianamine concentrations.  These results indicate that Fe mobilization within senescing leaves is independent of a concomitant N sink in young leaves and that phytosiderophores enhance Fe solubility in senescing source leaves, favoring subsequent Fe retranslocation.
To search for virulence effector genes of the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae, we carried out a large-scale targeted disruption of genes for 78 putative secreted proteins that are expressed during the early stages of infection of M. oryzae. Disruption of the majority of genes did not affect growth, conidiation, or pathogenicity of M. oryzae. One exception was the gene MC69. The mc69 mutant showed a severe reduction in blast symptoms on rice and barley, indicating the importance of MC69 for pathogenicity of M. oryzae. The mc69 mutant did not exhibit changes in saprophytic growth and conidiation. Microscopic analysis of infection behavior in the mc69 mutant revealed that MC69 is dispensable for appressorium formation. However, mc69 mutant failed to develop invasive hyphae after appressorium formation in rice leaf sheath, indicating a critical role of MC69 in interaction with host plants. MC69 encodes a hypothetical 54 amino acids protein with a signal peptide. Live-cell imaging suggested that fluorescently labeled MC69 was not translocated into rice cytoplasm. Site-directed mutagenesis of two conserved cysteine residues (Cys36 and Cys46) in the mature MC69 impaired function of MC69 without affecting its secretion, suggesting the importance of the disulfide bond in MC69 pathogenicity function. Furthermore, deletion of the MC69 orthologous gene reduced pathogenicity of the cucumber anthracnose fungus Colletotrichum orbiculare on both cucumber and Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. We conclude that MC69 is a secreted pathogenicity protein commonly required for infection of two different plant pathogenic fungi, M. oryzae and C. orbiculare pathogenic on monocot and dicot plants, respectively.
Metallothioneins (MTs) are low-molecular-weight, cysteine-rich proteins believed to play a role in cytosolic zinc (Zn) and copper (Cu) homeostasis. However, evidence for the functional properties of MTs has been hampered by methodological problems in the isolation and characterization of the proteins. Here, we document that barley (Hordeum vulgare) MT3 and MT4 proteins exist in planta and that they differ in tissue localization as well as in metal coordination chemistry. Combined transcriptional and histological analyses showed temporal and spatial correlations between transcript levels and protein abundance during grain development. MT3 was present in tissues of both maternal and filial origin throughout grain filling. In contrast, MT4 was confined to the embryo and aleurone layer, where it appeared during tissue specialization and remained until maturity. Using state-of-the-art speciation analysis by size-exclusion chromatography inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry and electrospray ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry on recombinant MT3 and MT4, their specificity and capacity for metal ion binding were quantified, showing a strong preferential Zn binding relative to Cu and cadmium (Cd) in MT4, which was not the case for MT3. When complementary DNAs from barley MTs were expressed in Cu- or Cd-sensitive yeast mutants, MT3 provided a much stronger complementation than did MT4. We conclude that MT3 may play a housekeeping role in metal homeostasis, while MT4 may function in Zn storage in developing and mature grains. The localization of MT4 and its discrimination against Cd make it an ideal candidate for future biofortification strategies directed toward increasing food and feed Zn concentrations.
The circadian clock is an autonomous oscillator that produces endogenous biological rhythms with a period of about 24 h. This clock allows organisms to coordinate their metabolism and development with predicted daily and seasonal changes of the environment. In plants, circadian rhythms contribute to both evolutionary fitness and agricultural productivity. Nevertheless, we show that commercial barley varieties bred for short growing seasons by use of early maturity 8 (eam8) mutations, also termed mat-a, are severely compromised in clock gene expression and clock outputs. We identified EAM8 as a barley ortholog of the Arabidopsis thaliana circadian clock regulator EARLY FLOWERING3 (ELF3) and demonstrate that eam8 accelerates the transition from vegetative to reproductive growth and inflorescence development. We propose that eam8 was selected as barley cultivation moved to high-latitude short-season environments in Europe because it allowed rapid flowering in genetic backgrounds that contained a previously selected late-flowering mutation of the photoperiod response gene Ppd-H1. We show that eam8 mutants have increased expression of the floral activator HvFT1, which is independent of allelic variation at Ppd-H1. The selection of independent eam8 mutations shows that this strategy facilitates short growth-season adaptation and expansion of the geographic range of barley, despite the pronounced clock defect.
The role of β-oxidation and the glyoxylate cycle in fungal pathogenesis is well documented. However, an ambiguity still remains over their interaction in peroxisomes to facilitate fungal pathogenicity and virulence. In this report, we characterize a gene encoding an alanine, glyoxylate aminotransferase 1 (AGT1) in Magnaporthe oryzae, the causative agent of rice blast disease, and demonstrate that AGT1 is required for pathogenicity of M. oryzae. Targeted deletion of AGT1 resulted in the failure of penetration via appressoria; therefore, mutants lacking the gene were unable to induce blast symptoms on the hosts rice and barley. This penetration failure may be associated with a disruption in lipid mobilization during conidial germination as turgor generation in the appressorium requires mobilization of lipid reserves from the conidium. Analysis of enhanced green fluorescent protein expression using the transcriptional and translational fusion with the AGT1 promoter and open reading frame, respectively, revealed that AGT1 expressed constitutively in all in vitro grown cell types and during in planta colonization, and localized in peroxisomes. Peroxisomal localization was further confirmed by colocalization with red fluorescent protein fused with the peroxisomal targeting signal 1. Surprisingly, conidia produced by the Δagt1 mutant were unable to form appressoria on artificial inductive surfaces, even after prolonged incubation. When supplemented with nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+))+pyruvate, appressorium formation was restored on an artificial inductive surface. Taken together, our data indicate that AGT1-dependent pyruvate formation by transferring an amino group of alanine to glyoxylate, an intermediate of the glyoxylate cycle is required for lipid mobilization and utilization. This pyruvate can be converted to non-fermentable carbon sources, which may require reoxidation of NADH generated by the β-oxidation of fatty acids to NAD(+) in peroxisomes. Therefore, it may provide a means to maintain redox homeostasis in appressoria.
The barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) mutants fch2 and clo-f2 comprise an allelic group of 14 Chl b-deficient lines. The genetic map position of fch2 corresponds to the physical map position of the gene encoding chlorophyllide a oxygenase. This enzyme converts chlorophyllide a to chlorophyllide b and it is essential for Chl b biosynthesis. The fch2 and clo-f2 barley lines were shown to be mutated in the gene for chlorophyllide a oxygenase. A five-base insertion was found in fch2 and base deletions in clo-f2.101, clo-f2.105, clo-f2.2800 and clo-f2.3613. In clo-f2.105 and clo-f2.108, nonsense base exchanges were discovered. All of these mutations led to a premature stop of translation and none of the mutants formed Chl b. The mutant clo-f2.2807 was transcript deficient and formed no Chl b. Missense mutations in clo-f2.102 (leading to the amino acid exchange D495N) and clo-f2.103 (G280D) resulted in a total lack of Chl b, whereas in the missense mutants clo-f2.107 (P419L), clo-f2.109 (A94T), clo-f2.122 (C320Y), clo-f2.123 (A94T), clo-f2.133 (A376V) and clo-f2.181 (L373F) intermediate contents of Chl b were determined. The missense mutations affect conserved residues, and their effect on chlorophyllide a oxygenase is discussed. The mutations in clo-f2.102, clo-f2.103, clo-f2.133 and clo-f2.181 may influence electron transfer as illustrated in the active site of a structural model protein. The changes in clo-f2.107, clo-f2.109, clo-f2.122 and clo-f2.123 may lead to Chlb deficiency by interfering with the regulation of chlorophyllide a oxygenase. The correlation of mutations and phenotypes strongly supports that the barley locus fch2 encodes chlorophyllide a oxygenase.
The mutualistic basidiomycete Piriformospora indica colonizes roots of mono- and dicotyledonous plants, and thereby improves plant health and yield. Given the capability of P. indica to colonize a broad range of hosts, it must be anticipated that the fungus has evolved efficient strategies to overcome plant immunity and to establish a proper environment for nutrient acquisition and reproduction. Global gene expression studies in barley identified various ethylene synthesis and signaling components that were differentially regulated in P. indica-colonized roots. Based on these findings we examined the impact of ethylene in the symbiotic association. The data presented here suggest that P. indica induces ethylene synthesis in barley and Arabidopsis roots during colonization. Moreover, impaired ethylene signaling resulted in reduced root colonization, Arabidopsis mutants exhibiting constitutive ethylene signaling, -synthesis or ethylene-related defense were hyper-susceptible to P. indica. Our data suggest that ethylene signaling is required for symbiotic root colonization by P. indica.
Immunolabeling, combined with chemical analyses and transcript profiling, have provided a comprehensive temporal and spatial picture of the deposition and modification of cell wall polysaccharides during barley (Hordeum vulgare) grain development, from endosperm cellularization at 3 d after pollination (DAP) through differentiation to the mature grain at 38 DAP. (1→3)-β-D-Glucan appears transiently during cellularization but reappears in patches in the subaleurone cell walls around 20 DAP. (1→3, 1→4)-β-Glucan, the most abundant polysaccharide of the mature barley grain, accumulates throughout development. Arabino-(1-4)-β-D-xylan is deposited significantly earlier than we previously reported. This was attributable to the initial deposition of the polysaccharide in a highly substituted form that was not recognized by antibodies commonly used to detect arabino-(1-4)-β-D-xylans in sections of plant material. The epitopes needed for antibody recognition were exposed by pretreatment of sections with α-L-arabinofuranosidase; this procedure showed that arabino-(1-4)-β-D-xylans were deposited as early as 5 DAP and highlighted their changing structures during endosperm development. By 28 DAP labeling of hetero-(1→4)-β-D-mannan is observed in the walls of the starchy endosperm but not in the aleurone walls. Although absent in mature endosperm cell walls we now show that xyloglucan is present transiently from 3 until about 6 DAP and disappears by 8 DAP. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction of transcripts for GLUCAN SYNTHASE-LIKE, Cellulose Synthase, and CELLULOSE SYNTHASE-LIKE genes were consistent with the patterns of polysaccharide deposition. Transcript profiling of some members from the Carbohydrate-Active Enzymes database glycosyl transferase families GT61, GT47, and GT43, previously implicated in arabino-(1-4)-β-d-xylan biosynthesis, confirms their presence during grain development.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenous RNAs that regulates the gene expression involved in various biological and metabolic processes. Barley is one of the most important cereal crops worldwide and is a model organism for genetic and genomic studies in Triticeae species. However, the miRNA research in barley has lagged behind other model species in grass family. To obtain more information of miRNA genes in barley, we sequenced a small RNA library created from a pool of equal amounts of RNA from four different tissues using Solexa sequencing. In addition to 126 conserved miRNAs (58 families), 133 novel miRNAs belonging to 50 families were identified from this sequence data set. The miRNA* sequences of 15 novel miRNAs were also discovered, suggesting the additional evidence for existence of these miRNAs. qRT-PCR was used to examine the expression pattern of six randomly selected miRNAs. Some miRNAs involved in drought and salt stress response were also identified. Furthermore, the potential targets of these putative miRNAs were predicted using the psRNATarget tools. Our results significantly increased the number of novel miRNAs in barley, which should be useful for further investigation into the biological functions and evolution of miRNAs in barley and other species.
Barley endosperm cells differentiate into transfer cells (ETCs) opposite the nucellar projection. To comprehensively analyse ETC differentiation, laser microdissection-based transcript and metabolite profiles were obtained from laser microdissected tissues and cell morphology was analysed. Flange-like secondary-wall ingrowths appeared between 5 and 7 days after pollination within the three outermost cell layers. Gene expression analysis indicated that ethylene-signalling pathways initiate ETC morphology. This is accompanied by gene activity related to cell shape control and vesicle transport, with abundant mitochondria and endomembrane structures. Gene expression analyses indicate predominant formation of hemicelluloses, glucuronoxylans and arabinoxylans, and transient formation of callose, together with proline and 4-hydroxyproline biosynthesis. Activation of the methylation cycle is probably required for biosynthesis of phospholipids, pectins and ethylene. Membrane microdomains involving sterols/sphingolipids and remorins are potentially involved in ETC development. The transcriptional activity of assimilate and micronutrient transporters suggests ETCs as the main uptake organs of solutes into the endosperm. Accordingly, the endosperm grows maximally after ETCs are fully developed. Up-regulated gene expression related to amino acid catabolism, C:N balances, carbohydrate oxidation, mitochondrial activity and starch degradation meets high demands for respiratory energy and carbohydrates, required for cell proliferation and wall synthesis. At 10 days after pollination, ETCs undergo further differentiation, potentially initiated by abscisic acid, and metabolism is reprogrammed as shown by activated storage and stress-related processes. Overall, the data provide a comprehensive view of barley ETC differentiation and development, and identify candidate genes and associated pathways.
Feruloyl esterases can liberate ferulic acid (FA) from plant cell wall polymers. They are expressed by plant pathogenic fungi and could play a role in pathogenicity, although this question has not been addressed yet. The fungus Fusarium graminearum is the principal causal agent of fusarium head blight (FHB) and gibberella ear rot (GER), major diseases of wheat, barley, and maize in all temperate regions of the world. The F. graminearum genome contains seven genes with strong homology to feruloyl esterase (FAE) sequences. Phylogenetic analysis showed that these included three type B, three type C, and one type D FAE genes. Expression profiling of the seven FAE genes showed complex regulation patterns unique to each gene. In F. graminearum-infected plant tissues, the FAE genes exhibited host-specific gene expression. On wheat, FAEB1 and FAED1 were strongly expressed while FAEB2, FAEB3, and FAEC1 were expressed at more modest levels. On maize, only FAEB3, FAEC1, and FAED1 were expressed and at low levels. When growing F. graminearum in liquid culture, only FAEB1 and FAEC1 were expressed. Both genes were induced by a small group of related aromatic compounds including FA, caffeic acid, and p-coumaric acid. FAEB1 was induced by xylose, while repressed by glucose and galactose. FAEC1 was constitutively expressed at low levels in the presence of those sugars. Expression of the other five FAE genes was not detected in the culture conditions used. To determine if FAE genes were important for pathogenicity of F. graminearum, mutant strains inactivated for faeB1∆, faeD1∆ or both genes were constructed and tested on wheat plants. No statistically significant change in pathogenicity and no compensatory expression of the other FAE genes were observed in the fae gene mutants. Our results show that FAEB1 and FAED1 are not required for pathogenicity of F. graminearum on wheat.
Drought is a major constraint to maintaining yield stability of wheat in rain fed and limited irrigation agro-ecosystems. Genetic improvement for drought tolerance in wheat has been difficult due to quantitative nature of the trait involving multiple genes with variable effects and lack of effective selection strategies employing molecular markers. Here, a framework molecular linkage map was constructed using 173 DNA markers randomly distributed over the 21 wheat chromosomes. Grain yield and other drought-responsive shoot and root traits were phenotyped for 2 years under drought stress and well-watered conditions on a mapping population of recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between drought-sensitive semidwarf variety "WL711" and drought-tolerant traditional variety "C306". Thirty-seven genomics region were identified for 10 drought-related traits at 18 different chromosomal locations but most of these showed small inconsistent effects. A consistent genomic region associated with drought susceptibility index (qDSI.4B.1) was mapped on the short arm of chromosome 4B, which also controlled grain yield per plant, harvest index, and root biomass under drought. Transcriptome profiling of the parents and two RIL bulks with extreme phenotypes revealed five genes underlying this genomic region that were differentially expressed between the parents as well as the two RIL bulks, suggesting that they are likely candidates for drought tolerance. Syntenic genomic regions of barley, rice, sorghum, and maize genomes were identified that also harbor genes for drought tolerance. Markers tightly linked to this genomic region in combination with other important regions on group 7 chromosomes may be used in marker-assisted breeding for drought tolerance in wheat.
A prerequisite to study the molecular genetic pathways of pollen and anther development is an accurate staging system for reproductive development. However in barley, floret formation occurs mainly within the pseudostem, which makes the observation of floret development and access to the floret particularly difficult without dissecting the plant. Thus selecting stages for molecular analysis cannot be done non-destructively. A staging method has therefore been developed for barley in order to define the relationship between readily detectable growth points and reproductive development, to provide a clear key to enable accurate selection of reproductive material. Initial staging followed the traditional Zadoks decimal system, with minor adaptations to stages 31-34 and stage 37. The later stages, from 37 onward, were replaced by growth staging based upon the last flag elongation (LFE) and the position occupied by the spike within the pseudostem. Spike size could be readily predicted by using the staging system incorporating Zadoks stages 31-37, supplemented with substages and by LFE staging to improve accuracy. The different spike sizes, as well as the LFE stages, showed a clear relationship to events occurring within the anther, as confirmed by light microscopy of the anthers. The defined relationship between spike size and development to anther development now makes possible the accurate prediction of anther and pollen progression by external staging. This, therefore, provides a mechanism for non-destructive selection of material for analysis that is critical for the molecular characterization of genes in anther and pollen development.
Protein kinases play an important role in regulating the response to abiotic stress in plant. CIPKs are plant-specific signal transducers, and some members have been identified. However, the precise functions of novel CIPKs still remain unknown. Here we report that HbCIPK2 is a positive regulator of salt and osmotic stress tolerance. HbCIPK2 was screened out of the differentially expressed fragments from halophyte Hordeum brevisubulatum by cDNA-AFLP technique, and was a single-copy gene without intron. Expression of HbCIPK2 was increased by salt, drought and ABA treatment. HbCIPK2 is mainly localized to the plasma membrane and nucleus. Ectopic expression of 35S:HbCIPK2 not only rescued the salt hypersensitivity in Arabidopsis mutant sos2-1, but also enhanced salt tolerance in Arabidopsis wild type, and exhibited tolerance to osmotic stress during germination. The HbCIPK2 contributed to the ability to prevent K(+) loss in root and to accumulate less Na(+) in shoot resulting in K(+) /Na(+) homeostasis and protection of root cell from death, which is consistent with the gene expression profile of HbCIPK2-overexpressing lines. These findings imply possible novel HbCIPK2-mediated salt signalling pathways or networks in H. brevisubulatum.
Dehydrins are one of the major stress-induced gene families, and the expression of dehydrin 6 (Dhn6) is strictly related to drought in barley. In order to investigate how the evolution of the Dhn6 gene is associated with adaptation to environmental changes, we examined 48 genotypes of wild barley, Hordeum spontaneum, from "Evolution Canyon" at Mount Carmel, Israel. The Dhn6 sequences of the 48 genotypes were identified, and a recent insertion of 342 bp at 5'UTR was found in the sequences of 11 genotypes. Both nucleotide and haplotype diversity of single nucleotide polymorphism in Dhn6 coding regions were higher on the AS ("African" slope or dry slope) than on the ES ("European" slope or humid slope), and the applied Tajima D and Fu-Li test rejected neutrality of SNP diversity. Expression analysis indicated that the 342 bp insertion at 5'UTR was associated with the earlier up-regulation of Dhn6 after dehydration. The genetic divergence of amino acids sequences indicated significant positive selection of Dhn6 among the wild barley populations. The diversity of Dhn6 in microclimatic divergence slopes suggested that Dhn6 has been subjected to natural selection and adaptively associated with drought resistance of wild barley at "Evolution Canyon".
A number of genes are involved in the vernalization pathway, such as VRN1, VRN2 and VRN3/FT1, whose function has been studied in barley and wheat. However, the function of the flowering and vernalization integrator SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CONSTANS 1 (SOC1) has not been well studied in Triticeae, and particularly in barley. Herein, we cloned and characterized two barley SOC1-like homologs, HvSOC1-like1 and HvSOC1-like2. Primary sequence analysis of the predicted HvSOC1-like1 and HvSOC1-like2 proteins showed that they are members of the type II MADS-box protein family. Phylogenetic analysis placed the predicted proteins with other SOC1 and SOC1-like proteins from different species neighboring those from other cereal plant species. Primary and secondary structures of the predicted proteins are conserved to each other and more distant to the recently identified barley ODDSOC1 proteins. Genomic organization of HvSOC1-like1 is very similar to the Arabidopsis and Brachypodium SOC1 genes and localized in highly syntenic chromosomal regions. Regulatory cis-acting elements detected in the HvSOC1-like1 promoter include the CArG-box, implicated in the regulation of SOC1 expression in Arabidopsis. Both HvSOC1-like1 and HvSOCI-like2 are expressed in vegetative and reproductive tissues and at different stages of seed development. Both are upregulated in a particular seed developmental stage suggesting their possible implication in seed development. Furthermore, HvSOC1-like1 was induced in two winter barley cultivars after vernalization treatment pointing to its probable involvement in the vernalization process. The study of the SOC1 genes reported here opens the way for a better understanding of both the vernalization process and seed development and germination in this important cereal crop.
The development of plant gene transfer systems has allowed for the introgression of alien genes into plant genomes for novel disease control strategies, thus providing a mechanism for broadening the genetic resources available to plant breeders. Using the tools of plant genetic engineering, a broad-spectrum antimicrobial gene was tested for resistance against head blight caused by Fusarium graminearum Schwabe, a devastating disease of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) that reduces both grain yield and quality. A construct containing a bovine lactoferrin cDNA was used to transform wheat using an Agrobacterium-mediated DNA transfer system to express this antimicrobial protein in transgenic wheat. Transformants were analyzed by Northern and Western blots to determine lactoferrin gene expression levels and were inoculated with the head blight disease fungus F. graminearum. Transgenic wheat showed a significant reduction of disease incidence caused by F. graminearum compared to control wheat plants. The level of resistance in the highly susceptible wheat cultivar Bobwhite was significantly higher in transgenic plants compared to control Bobwhite and two untransformed commercial wheat cultivars, susceptible Wheaton and tolerant ND 2710. Quantification of the expressed lactoferrin protein by ELISA in transgenic wheat indicated a positive correlation between the lactoferrin gene expression levels and the levels of disease resistance. Introgression of the lactoferrin gene into elite commercial wheat, barley and other susceptible cereals may enhance resistance to F. graminearum.
Originating from the Fertile Crescent in the Middle East, barley has now been cultivated widely on different soil types including acid soils, where aluminium toxicity is a major limiting factor. Here we show that the adaptation of barley to acid soils is achieved by the modification of a single gene (HvAACT1) encoding a citrate transporter. We find that the primary function of this protein is to release citrate from the root pericycle cells to the xylem to facilitate the translocation of iron from roots to shoots. However, a 1-kb insertion in the upstream of the HvAACT1 coding region occurring only in the Al-tolerant accessions, enhances its expression and alters the location of expression to the root tips. The altered HvAACT1 has an important role in detoxifying aluminium by secreting citrate to the rhizosphere. Thus, the insertion of a 1-kb sequence in the HvAACT1 upstream enables barley to adapt to acidic soils.
Arabinoxylan arabinofuranohydrolases (AXAHs) are family GH51 enzymes that have been implicated in the removal of arabinofuranosyl residues from the (1,4)-β-xylan backbone of heteroxylans. Five genes encoding barley AXAHs range in size from 4.6 kb to 7.1 kb and each contains 16 introns. The barley HvAXAH genes map to chromosomes 2H, 4H, and 5H. A small cluster of three HvAXAH genes is located on chromosome 4H and there is evidence for gene duplication and the presence of pseudogenes in barley. The cDNAs corresponding to barley and wheat AXAH genes were cloned, and transcript levels of the genes were profiled across a range of tissues at different developmental stages. Two HvAXAH cDNAs that were successfully expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves exhibited similar activities against 4-nitrophenyl α-L-arabinofuranoside, but HvAXAH2 activity was significantly higher against wheat flour arabinoxylan, compared with HvAXAH1. HvAXAH2 also displayed activity against (1,5)-α-L-arabinopentaose and debranched arabinan. Western blotting with an anti-HvAXAH antibody was used to define further the locations of the AXAH enzymes in developing barley grain, where high levels were detected in the outer layers of the grain but little or no protein was detected in the endosperm. The chromosomal locations of the genes do not correspond to any previously identified genomic regions shown to influence heteroxylan structure. The data are therefore consistent with a role for AXAH in depolymerizing arabinoxylans in maternal tissues during grain development, but do not provide compelling evidence for a role in remodelling arabinoxylans during endosperm or coleoptile development in barley as previously proposed.
Time to flowering has an important impact on yield and has been a key trait in the domestication of crop plants and the spread of agriculture. In 1961, the cultivar Mari (mat-a.8) was the very first induced early barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) mutant to be released into commercial production. Mari extended the range of two-row spring barley cultivation as a result of its photoperiod insensitivity. Since its release, Mari or its derivatives have been used extensively across the world to facilitate short-season adaptation and further geographic range extension. By exploiting an extended historical collection of early-flowering mutants of barley, we identified Praematurum-a (Mat-a), the gene responsible for this key adaptive phenotype, as a homolog of the Arabidopsis thaliana circadian clock regulator Early Flowering 3 (Elf3). We characterized 87 induced mat-a mutant lines and identified >20 different mat-a alleles that had clear mutations leading to a defective putative ELF3 protein. Expression analysis of HvElf3 and Gigantea in mutant and wild-type plants demonstrated that mat-a mutations disturb the flowering pathway, leading to the early phenotype. Alleles of Mat-a therefore have important and demonstrated breeding value in barley but probably also in many other day-length-sensitive crop plants, where they may tune adaptation to different geographic regions and climatic conditions, a critical issue in times of global warming.
Gene duplication and the subsequent divergence in function of the resulting paralogs via subfunctionalization and/or neofunctionalization is hypothesized to have played a major role in the evolution of plant form. The LEAFY HULL STERILE1 (LHS1) SEPALLATA (SEP) genes have been linked with the origin and diversification of the grass spikelet, but it is uncertain 1) when the duplication event that produced the LHS1 clade and its paralogous lineage Oryza sativa MADS5 (OSM5) occurred, and 2) how changes in gene structure and/or expression might have contributed to subfunctionalization and/or neofunctionalization in the two lineages. Phylogenetic relationships among 84 SEP genes were estimated using Bayesian methods. RNA expression patterns were inferred using in situ hybridization. The patterns of protein sequence and RNA expression evolution were reconstructed using maximum parsimony (MP) and maximum likelihood (ML) methods, respectively. Phylogenetic analyses mapped the LHS1/OSM5 duplication event to the base of the grass family. MP character reconstructions estimated a change from cytosine to thymine in the first codon position of the first amino acid after the Zea mays MADS3 (ZMM3) domain converted a glutamine to a stop codon in the OSM5 ancestor following the LHS1/OSM5 duplication event. RNA expression analyses of OSM5 co-orthologs in Avena sativa, Chasmanthium latifolium, Hordeum vulgare, Pennisetum glaucum, and Sorghum bicolor followed by ML reconstructions of these data and previously published analyses estimated a complex pattern of gain and loss of LHS1 and OSM5 expression in different floral organs and different flowers within the spikelet or inflorescence. Previous authors have reported that rice OSM5 and LHS1 proteins have different interaction partners indicating that the truncation of OSM5 following the LHS1/OSM5 duplication event has resulted in both partitioned and potentially novel gene functions. The complex pattern of OSM5 and LHS1 expression evolution is not consistent with a simple subfunctionalization model following the gene duplication event, but there is evidence of recent partitioning of OSM5 and LHS1 expression within different floral organs of A. sativa, C. latifolium, P. glaucum and S. bicolor, and between the upper and lower florets of the two-flowered maize spikelet.
The migratory endoparasitic root lesion nematode Pratylenchus thornei is a major pest of the cereals wheat and barley. In what we believe to be the first global transcriptome analysis for P. thornei, using Roche GS FLX sequencing, 787,275 reads were assembled into 34,312 contigs using two assembly programs, to yield 6,989 contigs common to both. These contigs were annotated, resulting in functional assignments for 3,048. Specific transcripts studied in more detail included carbohydrate active enzymes potentially involved in cell wall degradation, neuropeptides, putative plant nematode parasitism genes, and transcripts that could be secreted by the nematode. Transcripts for cell wall degrading enzymes were similar to bacterial genes, suggesting that they were acquired by horizontal gene transfer. Contigs matching 14 parasitism genes found in sedentary endoparasitic nematodes were identified. These genes are thought to function in suppression of host defenses and in feeding site development, but their function in P. thornei may differ. Comparison of the common contigs from P. thornei with other nematodes showed that 2,039 were common to sequences of the Heteroderidae, 1,947 to the Meloidogynidae, 1,218 to Radopholus similis, 1,209 matched expressed sequence tags (ESTs) of Pratylenchus penetrans and Pratylenchus vulnus, and 2,940 to contigs of Pratylenchus coffeae. There were 2,014 contigs common to Caenarhabditis elegans, with 15.9% being common to all three groups. Twelve percent of contigs with matches to the Heteroderidae and the Meloidogynidae had no homology to any C. elegans protein. Fifty-seven percent of the contigs did not match known sequences and some could be unique to P. thornei. These data provide substantial new information on the transcriptome of P. thornei, those genes common to migratory and sedentary endoparasitic nematodes, and provide additional understanding of genes required for different forms of parasitism. The data can also be used to identify potential genes to study host interactions and for crop protection.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) act as signal molecules for a variety of processes in plants. However, many questions about the roles of ROS in plants remain to be clarified. Here, we report the role of ROS in gibberellin (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA) signaling in barley (Hordeum vulgare) aleurone cells. The production of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), a type of ROS, was induced by GA in aleurone cells but suppressed by ABA. Furthermore, exogenous H2O2 appeared to promote the induction of α-amylases by GA. In contrast, antioxidants suppressed the induction of α-amylases. Therefore, H2O2 seems to function in GA and ABA signaling, and in regulation of α-amylase production, in aleurone cells. To identify the target of H2O2 in GA and ABA signaling, we analyzed the interrelationships between H2O2 and DELLA proteins Slender1 (SLN1), GA-regulated Myb transcription factor (GAmyb), and ABA-responsive protein kinase (PKABA) and their roles in GA and ABA signaling in aleurone cells. In the presence of GA, exogenous H2O2 had little effect on the degradation of SLN1, the primary transcriptional repressor mediating GA signaling, but it promoted the production of the mRNA encoding GAMyb, which acts downstream of SLN1 and involves induction of α-amylase mRNA. Additionally, H2O2 suppressed the production of PKABA mRNA, which is induced by ABA:PKABA represses the production of GAMyb mRNA. From these observations, we concluded that H2O2 released the repression of GAMyb mRNA by PKABA and consequently promoted the production of α-amylase mRNA, thus suggesting that the H2O2 generated by GA in aleurone cells is a signal molecule that antagonizes ABA signaling.
The pre-mRNA processing (Prp1) gene encodes a spliceosomal protein. It was firstly identified in fission yeast and plays a regular role during spliceosome activation and cell cycle. Plant Prp1 genes have only been identified from rice, Sorghum and Arabidopsis thaliana. In this study, we reported the identification and isolation of a novel Prp1 gene from barley, and further explored its expressional pattern by using real-time quantitative RTPCR, promoter prediction and analysis of microarray data. The putative barley Prp1 protein has a similar primary structure features to those of other known Prp1 protein in this family. The results of amino acid comparison indicated that Prp1 protein of barley and other plant species has a highly conserved 30 termnal region while their 50 sequences greatly varied. The results of expressional analysis revealed that the expression level of barley Prp1 gene is always stable in different vegetative tissues, except it is up-regulated at the mid- and late stages of seed development or under the condition of cold stress. This kind of expressional pattern for barley Prp1 is also supported by our results of comparison of microarray data from barley, rice and Arabidopsis. For the molecular mechanism of its expressional pattern, we conclude that the expression of Prp1 gene may be up-regulated by the increase of pre-mRNAs and not be constitutive or ubiquitous.
High temperature influences plant development and can reduce crop yields. We examined how ambient temperature influences reproductive development in the temperate cereals wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). High temperature resulted in rapid progression through reproductive development in long days, but inhibited early stages of reproductive development in short days. Activation of the long-day flowering response pathway through day-length-insensitive alleles of the PHOTOPERIOD1 gene, which result in high FLOWERING LOCUS T-like1 transcript levels, did not allow rapid early reproductive development at high temperature in short days. Furthermore, high temperature did not increase transcript levels of FLOWERING LOCUS T-like genes. These data suggest that genes or pathways other than the long-day response pathway mediate developmental responses to high temperature in cereals. Transcriptome analyses suggested a possible role for vernalization-responsive genes in the developmental response to high temperature. The MADS-box floral repressor HvODDSOC2 is expressed at elevated levels at high temperature in short days, and might contribute to the inhibition of early reproductive development under these conditions. FLOWERING PROMOTING FACTOR1-like, RNase-S-like genes, and VER2-like genes were also identified as candidates for high-temperature-responsive developmental regulators. Overall, these data suggest that rising temperatures might elicit different developmental responses in cereal crops at different latitudes or times of year, due to the interaction between temperature and day length. Additionally, we suggest that different developmental regulators might mediate the response to high temperature in cereals compared to Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana).
Owing to its evolutional plasticity and adaptability, barley (Hordeum vulgare) is one of the most widespread crops in the world. Despite this evolutionary success, sexual reproduction of small grain cereals is poorly investigated, making discovery of novel genes and functions a challenging priority. Barley gene Jekyll appears to be a key player in grain development; however, its role in flowers has remained unknown.  Here, we studied RNAi lines of barley, where Jekyll expression was repressed to different extents. The impact of Jekyll on flower development was evaluated based on differential gene expression analysis applied to anthers and gynoecia of wildtype and transgenic plants, as well as using isotope labeling experiments, hormone analysis, immunogold- and TUNEL-assays and in situ hybridization.  Jekyll is expressed in nurse tissues mediating gametophyte-sporophyte interaction in anthers and gynoecia, where JEKYLL was found within the intracellular membranes. The repression of Jekyll impaired pollen maturation, anther dehiscence and induced a significant loss of fertility. The presence of JEKYLL on the pollen surface also hints at possible involvement in the fertilization process.  We conclude that the role of Jekyll in cereal sexual reproduction is clearly much broader than has been hitherto realized.
Gene expression in plastids of higher plants is dependent on two different transcription machineries, a plastid-encoded bacterial-type RNA polymerase (PEP) and a nuclear-encoded phage-type RNA polymerase (NEP), which recognize distinct types of promoters. The division of labor between PEP and NEP during plastid development and in mature chloroplasts is unclear due to a lack of comprehensive information on promoter usage. Here, we present a thorough investigation into the distribution of PEP and NEP promoters within the plastid genome of barley (Hordeum vulgare). Using a novel differential RNA sequencing approach, which discriminates between primary and processed transcripts, we obtained a genome-wide map of transcription start sites in plastids of mature first leaves. PEP-lacking plastids of the albostrians mutant allowed for the unambiguous identification of NEP promoters. We observed that the chloroplast genome contains many more promoters than genes. According to our data, most genes (including genes coding for photosynthesis proteins) have both PEP and NEP promoters. We also detected numerous transcription start sites within operons, indicating transcriptional uncoupling of genes in polycistronic gene clusters. Moreover, we mapped many transcription start sites in intergenic regions and opposite to annotated genes, demonstrating the existence of numerous noncoding RNA candidates.
Plasma membrane proton ATPase (PM-H⁺-ATPase) is the key means through which plant cells energize nutrient uptake and acidify the apoplast. Both of these processes aid cell elongation; yet, it is not known how such a suspected role of the PM-H⁺-ATPase in growth is reflected through changes in its transcript level and activity in grass leaves. In the present study on leaf three of barley, the elongation zone and the emerged blade, which contained fully expanded cells were analyzed. Plasma membranes were isolated and used to assay the activity (ATPase assay) and abundance (western blotting) of PM-H⁺-ATPase protein. Expression of mRNA was quantified using real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). PM-H⁺-ATPase transcript and protein level and activity differed little between growing and non-growing leaf regions when values were related to unit extracted total RNA and cell number, respectively. However, when values were related to unit surface area of plasma membrane, they were more than twice as high in growing compared with non-growing leaf tissue. It is concluded that this higher surface density of PM-H⁺-ATPase activity in growing barley leaf tissue aids apoplast acidification and cell expansion.
Inducible resistance responses play a central role in the defense of plants against pathogen attack. Acquired resistance (AR) is induced alongside defense toward primary attack, providing broad-spectrum protection against subsequent pathogen challenge. The localization and molecular basis of AR in cereals is poorly understood, in contrast with the well-characterized systemic acquired resistance (SAR) response in Arabidopsis. Here, we use Pseudomonas syringae as a biological inducer of AR in barley, providing a clear frame of reference to the Arabidopsis-P. syringae pathosystem. Inoculation of barley leaf tissue with the nonadapted P. syringae pv. tomato avrRpm1 (PstavrRpm1) induced an active local defense response. Furthermore, inoculation of barley with PstavrRpm1 resulted in the induction of broad-spectrum AR at a distance from the local lesion, "adjacent" AR, effective against compatible isolates of P. syringae and Magnaporthe oryzae. Global transcriptional profiling of this adjacent AR revealed similarities with the transcriptional profile of SAR in Arabidopsis, as well as transcripts previously associated with chemically induced AR in cereals, suggesting that AR in barley and SAR in Arabidopsis may be mediated by analogous pathways.
The Osmyb4 rice gene, coding for a transcription factor, proved to be efficient against different abiotic stresses as a trans(cis)gene in several plant species, although the effectiveness was dependent on the host genomic background. Eight barley transgenic lines carrying the rice Osmyb4 gene under the control of the Arabidopsis cold inducible promoter cor15a were produced to test the efficiency of this gene in barley. After a preliminary test, the best performing lines were subjected to freezing at -11°C and -12°C. Frost tolerance was assessed measured the F(v)/F(m) parameter widely used to indicate the maximum quantum yield of photosystem II photochemistry in the dark adapted state. Three transgenic lines showed significantly increased tolerance. These selected lines were further studied under a complex stress applying cold and hypoxia at germinating stage. In these conditions the three selected transgenic lines outperformed the wild type barley in terms of germination vigour. The transgenic plants also showed a significant modification of their metabolism under cold/hypoxia conditions as demonstrated through the assessment of the activity of key enzymes involved in anoxic stress response. None of the transgenic lines showed dwarfism, just a slight retarded growth. These results provide evidence that the cold dependent expression of Osmyb4 can efficiently improved frost tolerance and germination vigour at low temperature without deleterious effect on plant growth.
The VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1) gene of temperate cereals is transcriptionally activated by prolonged cold during winter (vernalization) to promote flowering. To investigate the mechanisms controlling induction of VRN1 by prolonged cold, different regions of the VRN1 gene were fused to the GREEN FLUORESCENT PROTEIN (GFP) reporter and expression of the resulting gene constructs was assayed in transgenic barley (Hordeum vulgare). A 2 kb segment of the promoter of VRN1 was sufficient for GFP expression in the leaves and shoot apex of transgenic barley plants. Fluorescence increased at the shoot apex prior to inflorescence initiation and was subsequently maintained in the developing inflorescence. The promoter was also sufficient for low-temperature induction of GFP expression. A naturally occurring insertion in the proximal promoter, which is associated with elevated VRN1 expression and early flowering in some spring wheats, did not abolish induction of VRN1 transcription by prolonged cold, however. A translational fusion of the promoter and transcribed regions of VRN1 to GFP, VRN1::GFP, was localised to nuclei of cells at the shoot apex of transgenic barley plants. The distribution of VRN1::GFP at the shoot apex was similar to the expression pattern of the VRN1 promoter-GFP reporter gene. Fluorescence from the VRN1::GFP fusion protein increased in the developing leaves after prolonged cold treatment. These observations suggest that the promoter of VRN1 is targeted by mechanisms that trigger vernalization-induced flowering in economically important temperate cereal crops.
Cereal purple acid phosphatase-type phytases, PAPhy, play an essential role in making phosphate accessible to mammalian digestion and reducing the environmental impact of manure. Studying the potential of PAPhy requires easy access to the enzymes. For that purpose wheat and barley isophytases have been expressed in Pichia pastoris from constructs encoding the alpha-mating factor at the N-termini and a His₆ tag before the stop codon in all constructs. A protein chemical study of a C-terminally truncated recombinant wheat phytase, r-TaPAPhy_b2, was carried out to clarifying the posttranslational processing of proteins secreted from P. pastoris. Extensive mass spectrometric sequencing of tryptic, chymotryptic and AspN derived peptides of both the native and endoH deglycosylated forms showed: (i) All mating factor derived sequence had been removed and further unspecific proteolysis left highly heterogeneous N-terminal variant forms of r-TaPAPhy; (ii) The His₆ tag had been retained or slightly truncated; (iii) All seven potential N-glycan sites were glycosylated except for two sites which were partially glycosylated by ca. 90% and 30%; (iv) Among the nine cysteine residues of this phytase, the most N-terminal residue is free, whereas the remaining eight appear to be disulfide bonded. It is noteworthy that already the first step in ESI-MS/MS sequencing had fragmented the hyper glycosylated peptides into free Z, Y and X mass spectrometric glycan fragments attached to the peptide.
An important link between the environment and the physiological state of bacteria is the regulation of the transcription of a large number of genes by global transcription factors. One of the global regulators, Fis (factor for inversion stimulation), is well studied in Escherichia coli, but the role of this protein in pseudomonads has only been examined briefly. According to studies in Enterobacteriaceae, Fis regulates positively the flagellar movement of bacteria. In pseudomonads, flagellar movement is an important trait for the colonization of plant roots. Therefore we were interested in the role of the Fis protein in Pseudomonas putida, especially the possible regulation of the colonization of plant roots. We observed that Fis reduced the migration of P. putida onto the apices of barley roots and thereby the competitiveness of bacteria on the roots. Moreover, we observed that overexpression of Fis drastically reduced swimming motility and facilitated P. putida biofilm formation, which could be the reason for the decreased migration of bacteria onto the root apices. It is possible that the elevated expression of Fis is important in the adaptation of P. putida during colonization of plant roots by promoting biofilm formation when the migration of bacteria is no longer favoured.
The TaPR61 gene from bread wheat encodes a lipid transfer protein (LTP) with a hydrophobic signal peptide, predicted to direct the TaPR61 protein to the apoplast. Modelling of TaPR61 revealed the presence of an internal cavity which can accommodate at least two lipid molecules. The full-length gene, including the promoter sequence of a TaPR61 orthologue, was cloned from a BAC library of Triticum durum. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed the presence of TaPR61 and TdPR61 mainly in grain. A transcriptional TdPR61 promoter-GUS fusion was stably transformed into wheat, barley, and rice. The strongest GUS expression in all three plants was found in the endosperm transfer cells, the embryo surrounding region (ESR), and in the embryo. The promoter is strong and has similar but not identical spatial patterns of activity in wheat, barley, and rice. These results suggest that the TdPR61 promoter will be a useful tool for improving grain quality by manipulating the quality and quantity of nutrient/lipid uptake to the endosperm and embryo. Mapping of regions important for the promoter function using transient expression assays in developing embryos resulted in the identification of two segments important for promoter activation in embryos. The putative cis-elements from the distal segment were used as bait in a yeast 1-hybrid (Y1H) screen of a cDNA library prepared from the liquid part of the wheat multinucleate syncytium. A transcription factor isolated in the screen is similar to BES1/BLZ1 from Arabidopsis, which is known to be a key transcriptional regulator of the brassinosteroid signalling pathway.
Black rot of sweet potato caused by pathogenic fungus Ceratocystis fimbriata severely deteriorates both growth of plants and post-harvest storage. Antimicrobial peptides from various organisms have broad range activities of killing bacteria, mycobacteria, and fungi. Plant thionin peptide exhibited anti-fungal activity against C. fimbriata. A gene for barley α-hordothionin (αHT) was placed downstream of a strong constitutive promoter of E12Ω or the promoter of a sweet potato gene for β-amylase of storage roots, and introduced into sweet potato commercial cultivar Kokei No. 14. Transgenic E12Ω:αHT plants showed high-level expression of αHT mRNA in both leaves and storage roots. Transgenic β-Amy:αHT plants showed sucrose-inducible expression of αHT mRNA in leaves, in addition to expression in storage roots. Leaves of E12Ω:αHT plants exhibited reduced yellowing upon infection by C. fimbriata compared to leaves of non-transgenic Kokei No. 14, although the level of resistance was weaker than resistance cultivar Tamayutaka. Storage roots of both E12Ω:αHT and β-Amy:αHT plants exhibited reduced lesion areas around the site inoculated with C. fimbriata spores compared to Kokei No. 14, and some of the transgenic lines showed resistance level similar to Tamayutaka. Growth of plants and production of storage roots of these transgenic plants were not significantly different from non-transgenic plants. These results highlight the usefulness of transgenic sweet potato expressing antimicrobial peptide to reduce damages of sweet potato from the black rot disease and to reduce the use of agricultural chemicals.
An X-ray mutant showing an early flowering phenotype has been identified in einkorn wheat (Triticum monococcum L.), for which a major QTL for heading time was previously mapped in the telomeric region on the long arm of chromosome 3A. Recent advances in Triticeae genomics revealed that the gene order in this region is highly conserved between wheat and barley. Thus, we adopted a hypothetical gene order in barley, the so-called GenomeZipper, to develop DNA markers for fine mapping the target gene in wheat. We identified three genes tightly linked to the early heading phenotype. PCR analysis revealed that early-flowering is associated with the deletion of two genes in the mutant. Of the two deleted genes, one is an ortholog of the LUX ARRHYTHMO (LUX)/PHYTOCLOCK 1 (PCL1) gene found in Arabidopsis, which regulates the circadian clock and flowering time. We found distorted expression patterns of two clock genes (TOC1 and LHY) in the einkorn pcl1 deletion mutant as was reported for the Arabidopsis lux mutant. Transcript accumulation levels of photoperiod-response related genes, a photoperiod sensitivity gene (Ppd-1) and two wheat CONSTANS-like genes (WCO1 and TaHd1), were significantly higher in the einkorn wheat mutant. In addition, transcripts of the wheat florigen gene (WFT) accumulated temporally under short-day conditions in the einkorn wheat mutant. These results suggest that deletion of WPCL1 leads to abnormally higher expression of Ppd-1, resulting in the accumulation of WFT transcripts that triggers flowering even under short-day conditions. Our observations from gene mapping, gene deletions, and expression levels of flowering related genes strongly suggest that WPCL1 is the most likely candidate gene for controlling the early flowering phenotype in the einkorn wheat mutant.
α-amy gene amplified from barley genome was cloned into MCS of pGAP9K to generate pGAP9K-α-amy which was then transformed into Pichia pastoris GS115 by electroporation. Transformants with multi-copies and high expression for the foreign gene were selected on G418 containing plate and expression analysis. The fermentation was carried out in a 50 l bioreactor with 20 l working volume, using a high-density cell culture method by continuously feeding with 50% glycerol-0.8% PTM4 to the growing culture for 54 h at 30°C. Under the control of GAP promoter (pGAP), α-amy gene was constitutively expressed. At the end of the fermentation, the α-AMY expression reached 125 mg/l, while the biomass growth was 186 as measured by absorption of 600 nm. The secreted α-AMY was purified to 97.5% by SP-Sepharose FF ion-exchange chromatography and affinity purification. The recombinant α-AMY showed activity on hydrolysis of starch.
Under specific stress treatments (cold, starvation), in vitro microspores can be induced to deviate from their gametophytic development and switch to embryogenesis, forming haploid embryos and homozygous breeding lines in a short period of time. The inductive stress produces reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO), signalling molecules mediating cellular responses, and cell death, modifying the embryogenic microspore response and therefore, the efficiency of the process. This work analysed cell death, caspase 3-like activity, and ROS and NO production (using fluorescence probes and confocal analysis) after inductive stress in barley microspore cultures and embryogenic suspension cultures, as an in vitro system which permitted easy handling for comparison. There was an increase in caspase 3-like activity and cell death after stress treatment in microspore and suspension cultures, while ROS increased in non-induced microspores and suspension cultures. Treatments of the cultures with a caspase 3 inhibitor, DEVD-CHO, significantly reduced the cell death percentages. Stress-treated embryogenic suspension cultures exhibited high NO signals and cell death, while treatment with S-nitrosoglutathione (NO donor) in control suspension cultures resulted in even higher cell death. In contrast, in microspore cultures, NO production was detected after stress, and, in the case of 4-day microspore cultures, in embryogenic microspores accompanying the initiation of cell divisions. Subsequent treatments of stress-treated microspore cultures with ROS and NO scavengers resulted in a decreasing cell death during the early stages, but later they produced a delay in embryo development as well as a decrease in the percentage of embryogenesis in microspores. Results showed that the ROS increase was involved in the stress-induced programmed cell death occurring at early stages in both non-induced microspores and embryogenic suspension cultures; whereas NO played a dual role after stress in the two in vitro systems, one involved in programmed cell death in embryogenic suspension cultures and the other in the initiation of cell division leading to embryogenesis in reprogrammed microspores.
Improving the yield stability of cereal crops with a view to bolstering global food security is an important priority. The components of final grain number per plant at harvest are determined by fertile spikes per plant, number of fertile spikelets per spike and number of grains per spikelet. In this review article, we focus on the genetic factors of floral development and inflorescence architecture known to influence grain number and provide a broad overview of genes and genetic pathways that potentially can be manipulated to increase the yield of cereal crops, in particular wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). In addition, we discuss the outcome of multidisciplinary genomics knowledge to identify potential gene targets to develop conceptual ideotypes to meet the future demand.
Coping with different kinds of biotic and abiotic stresses is the foundation of sustainable agriculture. Although conventional breeding and marker-assisted selection are being employed in mulberry (Morus indica L.) to develop better varieties, nonetheless the longer time periods required for these approaches necessitates the use of precise biotechnological approaches for sustainable agriculture. In an attempt to improve stress tolerance of mulberry, an important plant of the sericulture industry, an encoding late embryogenesis abundant gene from barley (HVA1) was introduced into mulberry plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic mulberry with barley Hva1 under a constitutive promoter actin1 was shown to enhance drought and salinity tolerance. Here, we report that overexpression of barley Hva1 also confers cold tolerance in transgenic mulberry. Further, barley Hva1 gene under control of a stress-inducible promoter rd29A can effectively negate growth retardation under non-stress conditions and confer stress tolerance in transgenic mulberry. Transgenic lines display normal morphology to enhanced growth and an increased tolerance against drought, salt and cold conditions as measured by free proline, membrane stability index and PSII activity. Protein accumulation was detected under stress conditions confirming inductive expression of HVA1 in transgenics. Investigations to assess stress tolerance of these plants under field conditions revealed an overall better performance than the non-transgenic plants. Enhanced expression of stress responsive genes such as Mi dnaJ and Mi 2-cysperoxidin suggests that Hva1 can regulate downstream genes associated with providing abiotic stress tolerance. The investigation of transgenic lines presented here demonstrates the acquisition of tolerance against drought, salt and cold stress in plants overexpressing barley Hva1, indicating that Arabidopsis rd29A promoter can function in mulberry.
Most chloroplast mRNAs are processed from larger precursors. Several mechanisms have been proposed to mediate these processing events, including site-specific cleavage and the stalling of exonucleases by RNA structures. A protein barrier mechanism was proposed based on analysis of the pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) protein PPR10: PPR10 binds two intercistronic regions and impedes 5'- and 3'-exonucleases, resulting in processed RNAs with PPR10 bound at the 5'- or 3'-end. In this study, we provide evidence that protein barriers are the predominant means for defining processed mRNA termini in chloroplasts. First, we map additional RNA termini whose arrangement suggests biogenesis via a PPR10-like mechanism. Second, we show that the PPR protein HCF152 binds to the immediate 5'- or 3'-termini of transcripts that require HCF152 for their accumulation, providing evidence that HCF152 defines RNA termini by blocking exonucleases. Finally, we build on the observation that the PPR10 and HCF152 binding sites accumulate as small chloroplast RNAs to infer binding sites of other PPR proteins. We show that most processed mRNA termini are represented by small RNAs whose sequences are highly conserved. We suggest that each such small RNA is the footprint of a PPR-like protein that protects the adjacent RNA from degradation.
Highly efficient and cost-effective transformation technologies are essential for studying gene function in the major cereal crops, wheat and barley. Demand for efficient transformation systems to allow over-expression, or RNAi-mediated silencing of target genes, is greatly increasing. This is due to technology advances, such as rapid genome sequencing, enhancing the rate of gene discovery and thus leading to a large number of genes requiring functional analysis through transformation pipelines. Barley can be transformed at very high efficiency but the methods are genotype-dependent. Wheat is more difficult to transform, however, recent advances are also allowing the development of high-throughput transformation systems in wheat. For many gene function studies, barley can be used as a model for wheat due to its highly efficient transformation rates and smaller, less complex genome. An ideal transformation system needs to be extremely efficient, simple to perform, inexpensive, genotype-independent, and give the required expression of the transgene. Considerable progress has been made in enhancing transformation efficiencies, controlling transgene expression and in understanding and manipulating transgene insertion. However, a number of challenges still remain, one of the key ones being the development of genotype-independent transformation systems for wheat and barley.
Various functional genomic tools are being used to identify and characterize genes in plants. The Activator/Dissociation (Ac/Ds) transposon-based approach offers great potential, especially in barley, due to its limited success of genetic transformation and its large genome size. The bias of the Ac/Ds system towards genic regions and its tendency toward localized transpositions can greatly enhance the discovery and tagging of genes linked to Ds. Barley is a key ingredient in malting and brewing industry; therefore, gene discovery in relation to malting has an industrial perspective. Malting quality in barley is a complex and quantitatively inherited trait. Two major quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting malting quality traits have been located on chromosome 4H. In this study, Ds was reactivated from parent transposants (TNP) lines, TNP-29 and TNP-79, where Ds was mapped in the vicinity of important malting QTLs. Reactivation of Ds was carried out both by conventional breeding and in vitro approaches. A threefold increase in reactivation frequency through the in vitro approach enabled the development of a new genomic resource for the dissection of malting QTL and gene discovery in barley. Identification of unique flanking sequences, using high-efficiency thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR and inverse PCR from these populations, has further emphasized the new location of Ds in the barley genome and provided new transposon mutants especially in β-GAL1, β-amylase-like gene and ABC transporter for functional genomic studies.
Understanding the adaptation of cereals to environmental conditions is one of the key areas in which plant science can contribute to tackling challenges presented by climate change. Temperature and day length are the main environmental regulators of flowering and drivers of adaptation in temperate cereals. The major genes that control flowering time in barley in response to environmental cues are VRNH1, VRNH2, VRNH3, PPDH1, and PPDH2 (candidate gene HvFT3). These genes from the vernalization and photoperiod pathways show complex interactions to promote flowering that are still not understood fully. In particular, PPDH2 function is assumed to be limited to the ability of a short photoperiod to promote flowering. Evidence from the fields of biodiversity, ecogeography, agronomy, and molecular genetics was combined to obtain a more complete overview of the potential role of PPDH2 in environmental adaptation in barley. The dominant PPDH2 allele is represented widely in spring barley cultivars but is found only occasionally in modern winter cultivars that have strong vernalization requirements. However, old landraces from the Iberian Peninsula, which also have a vernalization requirement, possess this allele at a much higher frequency than modern winter barley cultivars. Under field conditions in which the vernalization requirement of winter cultivars is not satisfied, the dominant PPDH2 allele promotes flowering, even under increasing photoperiods above 12 h. This hypothesis was supported by expression analysis of vernalization-responsive genotypes. When the dominant allele of PPDH2 was expressed, this was associated with enhanced levels of VRNH1 and VRNH3 expression. Expression of these two genes is needed for the induction of flowering. Therefore, both in the field and under controlled conditions, PPDH2 has an effect of promotion of flowering. The dominant, ancestral, allele of PPDH2 is prevalent in southern European barley germplasm. The presence of the dominant allele is associated with early expression of VRNH1 and early flowering. We propose that PPDH2 promotes flowering of winter cultivars under all non-inductive conditions, i.e. under short days or long days in plants that have not satisfied their vernalization requirement. This mechanism is indicated to be a component of an adaptation syndrome of barley to Mediterranean conditions.
Changes in function and composition of the photosynthetic apparatus as well as the ultrastructure of chloroplasts in mesophyll cells were analyzed in flag leaves of the high-yield barley (Hordeum vulgare) variety cv. Lomerit during senescence under field conditions in two successive years. In contrast to previous results obtained with the elder variety cv. Carina photosystem II efficiency measured by F(v)/F(m) was found to be rather stable until a very late stage of senescence. Chlorophyll a fluorescence and P700 absorbance measurements revealed that the activities of the two photosystems declined in parallel. An increase in the chlorophyll a/b ratio at a late stage of senescence was observed to coincide with a decline in the level of the Lhcb1 apoprotein of the light harvesting complex (LHC) and the level of the corresponding transcript. Ultrastructural investigations revealed the presence of gerontoplasts that have long, single or pairwise thylakoids and lack large grana stacks. It is hypothesized that the early degradation of grana thylakoids harboring the major LHC reduced the risk of photoinhibition and might be causally related to the high yield of the barley variety cv. Lomerit.
The barley Risø16 mutation leads to inactivation of cytosolic ADP-Glc pyrophosphorylase, and results in decreased ADP-Glc and endospermal starch levels. Here we show that this mutation is accompanied by a decrease in storage protein accumulation and seed size, which indicates that alteration of a single enzymatic step can change the network of storage metabolism as a whole. We used comprehensive transcript, metabolite and hormonal profiling to compare grain metabolism and development of Risø16 and wild-type endosperm. Despite increased sugar availability in mutant endosperm, glycolytic intermediates downstream of hexose phosphates remained unchanged or decreased, while several glycolytic enzymes were downregulated at the transcriptional level. Metabolite and transcript profiling also indicated an inhibition of the tricarboxylic acid cycle at the level of mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)-isocitrate dehydrogenase and an attendant decrease in alpha-ketoglutarate and amino acids levels in Risø16, compared with wild type. Decreased levels of cytokinins in Risø16 endosperm suggested co-regulation between starch synthesis, abscisic acid (ABA) deficiency and cytokinin biosynthesis. Comparative cis-element analysis in promoters of jointly downregulated genes in Risø16 revealed an overlap between metabolic and hormonal regulation, which leds to a coordinated downregulation of endosperm-specific and ABA-inducible gene expression (storage proteins) together with repression by sugars (isocitrate dehydrogenase, amylases). Such co-regulation ensured that decreased carbon fluxes into starch lead to a coordinated inhibition of glycolysis, amino acid and storage proteins biosynthesis, which is useful in the prevention of osmotic imbalances and oxidative stress due to increased accumulation of sugars.
Regulatory processes controlling traits such as anthesis timing and whole-plant senescence are of primary importance for reproductive success and for crop quality and yield. It has previously been demonstrated that the presence of alleles associated with high grain protein content (GPC) at a locus on barley chromosome six leads to accelerated leaf senescence, and to strong (>10-fold) up-regulation of several genes which may be involved in senescence control. One of these genes (coding for a glycine-rich RNA-binding protein termed HvGR-RBP1) exhibits a high degree of similarity to Arabidopsis glycine-rich RNA-binding protein 7 (AtGRP7), which has been demonstrated to accelerate flowering under both long-day (LD) and short-day (SD) conditions, but not after vernalization. Development of near-isogenic barley lines, differing in the allelic state of the GPC locus, was compared from the seedling stage to maturity under both SD and LD and after vernalization under LD. Intriguingly, pre-anthesis plant development [measured by leaf emergence timing and pre-anthesis (sequential) leaf senescence] was enhanced in high-GPC germplasm. Differences were more pronounced under SD than under LD, but were eliminated by vernalization, associating observed effects with floral induction pathways. By contrast, differences in post-anthesis flag leaf and whole-plant senescence between low- and high-GPC germplasm persisted under all tested conditions, indicating that the GPC locus, possibly through HvGR-RBP1, impacts on both developmental stages. Detailed molecular characterization of this experimental system may allow the dissection of cross-talk between signalling pathways controlling early plant and floral development on one side, and leaf/whole-plant senescence on the other side.
Both Fe deficiency and Cd exposure induce rapid changes in the S nutritional requirement of plants. The aim of this work was to characterize the strategies adopted by plants to cope with both Fe deficiency (release of phytosiderophores) and Cd contamination [production of glutathione (GSH) and phytochelatins] when grown under conditions of limited S supply. Experiments were performed in hydroponics, using barley plants grown under S sufficiency (1.2 mM sulphate) and S deficiency (0 mM sulphate), with or without Fe(III)-EDTA at 0.08 mM for 11 d and subsequently exposed to 0.05 mM Cd for 24 h or 72 h. In S-sufficient plants, Fe deficiency enhanced both root and shoot Cd concentrations and increased GSH and phytochelatin levels. In S-deficient plants, Fe starvation caused a slight increase in Cd concentration, but this change was accompanied neither by an increase in GSH nor by an accumulation of phytochelatins. Release of phytosiderophores, only detectable in Fe-deficient plants, was strongly decreased by S deficiency and further reduced after Cd treatment. In roots Cd exposure increased the expression of the high affinity sulphate transporter gene (HvST1) regardless of the S supply, and the expression of the Fe deficiency-responsive genes, HvYS1 and HvIDS2, irrespective of Fe supply. In conclusion, adequate S availability is necessary to cope with Fe deficiency and Cd toxicity in barley plants. Moreover, it appears that in Fe-deficient plants grown in the presence of Cd with limited S supply, sulphur may be preferentially employed in the pathway for biosynthesis of phytosiderophores, rather than for phytochelatin production.
NUCLEAR FACTOR-Y, subunit B (NF-YB) comprises a multigene family in plants and has been shown to play important roles in growth, development, and response to environmental stress. In this study, five NF-YBs containing the full-length coding region were obtained from barley (Hordeum vulgare) through database sequence analysis, cloning, and sequencing. Sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis showed that HvNF-YB3 and HvNF-YB1 were clustered with NF-YB2 and NF-YB3 in Arabidopsis, suggesting these NF-YBs are evolutionary and functionally related. To test this hypothesis, HvNF-YB3 and HvNF-YB1 were overexpressed in Arabidopsis. Overexpression of HvNF-YB1 greatly promoted early flowering in Arabidopsis, supporting that HvNF-YB1may have conserved gene function in flowering time control as NF-YB2 and NF-YB3 in Arabidopsis. Overexpression of HvNF-YB3 in Arabidopsis had no effect on flowering time. An analysis of barley single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data, however, revealed a significant association between an HvNF-YB3 SNP and heading date. While it is unknown whether HvNF-YB3 directly contributes to heading date regulation, the results implied that HvNF-YB3 may also have conserved function in flowering time (heading date in barley) control. Further studies are needed to directly verify these gene functions in barley. Barley NF-YBs showed different expression patterns associated with tissue types, developmental stages, and response to different stress treatments, suggesting that barley NF-YBs may be involved in other physiological processes.
Variation in photoperiod response is a major factor determining plant development and the agronomic performance of crops. The genetic control of photoperiodic flowering has been elucidated in the model plant Arabidopsis, and many of the identified genes are structurally conserved in the grasses. In this study, HvCO1, the closest barley ortholog of the key photoperiod response gene CONSTANS in Arabidopsis, was over-expressed in the spring barley Golden Promise. Over-expression of HvCO1 accelerated time to flowering in long- and short-day conditions and caused up-regulation of HvFT1 mRNA under long-day conditions. However, the transgenic plants retained a response to photoperiod, suggesting the presence of photoperiod response factors acting downstream of HvCO1 transcription. Analysis of a population segregating for HvCO1 over-expression and natural genetic variation at Ppd-H1 demonstrated that Ppd-H1 acts downstream of HvCO1 transcription on HvFT1 expression and flowering. Furthermore, variation at Ppd-H1 did not affect diurnal expression of HvCO1 or HvCO2. Over-expression of HvCO1 increased transcription of the spring allele of Vrn-H1 in long- and short-day conditions, while genetic variation at Ppd-H1 did not affect Vrn-H1 expression. Over-expression of HvCO1 and natural genetic variation at Ppd-H1 accelerated inflorescence development and stem elongation. Thus, HvCO1 probably induces flowering by activating HvFT1 whilst Ppd-H1 regulates HvFT1 independently of HvCO1 mRNA, and all three genes also appear to have a strong effect in promoting inflorescence development.
Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) is a single-stranded RNA virus with three genome components designated alpha, beta, and gamma. BSMV vectors have previously been shown to be efficient virus induced gene silencing (VIGS) vehicles in barley and wheat and have provided important information about host genes functioning during pathogenesis as well as various aspects of genes functioning in development. To permit more effective use of BSMV VIGS for functional genomics experiments, we have developed an Agrobacterium delivery system for BSMV and have coupled this with a ligation independent cloning (LIC) strategy to mediate efficient cloning of host genes. Infiltrated Nicotiana benthamiana leaves provided excellent sources of virus for secondary BSMV infections and VIGS in cereals. The Agro/LIC BSMV VIGS vectors were able to function in high efficiency down regulation of phytoene desaturase (PDS), magnesium chelatase subunit H (ChlH), and plastid transketolase (TK) gene silencing in N. benthamiana and in the monocots, wheat, barley, and the model grass, Brachypodium distachyon. Suppression of an Arabidopsis orthologue cloned from wheat (TaPMR5) also interfered with wheat powdery mildew (Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici) infections in a manner similar to that of the A. thaliana PMR5 loss-of-function allele. These results imply that the PMR5 gene has maintained similar functions across monocot and dicot families. Our BSMV VIGS system provides substantial advantages in expense, cloning efficiency, ease of manipulation and ability to apply VIGS for high throughput genomics studies.
Recent sequencing projects have provided deep insight into fungal lifestyle-associated genomic adaptations. Here we report on the 25 Mb genome of the mutualistic root symbiont Piriformospora indica (Sebacinales, Basidiomycota) and provide a global characterization of fungal transcriptional responses associated with the colonization of living and dead barley roots. Extensive comparative analysis of the P. indica genome with other Basidiomycota and Ascomycota fungi that have diverse lifestyle strategies identified features typically associated with both, biotrophism and saprotrophism. The tightly controlled expression of the lifestyle-associated gene sets during the onset of the symbiosis, revealed by microarray analysis, argues for a biphasic root colonization strategy of P. indica. This is supported by a cytological study that shows an early biotrophic growth followed by a cell death-associated phase. About 10% of the fungal genes induced during the biotrophic colonization encoded putative small secreted proteins (SSP), including several lectin-like proteins and members of a P. indica-specific gene family (DELD) with a conserved novel seven-amino acids motif at the C-terminus. Similar to effectors found in other filamentous organisms, the occurrence of the DELDs correlated with the presence of transposable elements in gene-poor repeat-rich regions of the genome. This is the first in depth genomic study describing a mutualistic symbiont with a biphasic lifestyle. Our findings provide a significant advance in understanding development of biotrophic plant symbionts and suggest a series of incremental shifts along the continuum from saprotrophy towards biotrophy in the evolution of mycorrhizal association from decomposer fungi.
The plant cuticle, a cutin matrix embedded with and covered by wax, seals the aerial organ's surface to protect the plant against uncontrolled water loss. The cutin matrix is essential for the cuticle to function as a barrier to water loss. Recently, we identified from wild barley a drought supersensitive mutant, eibi1, which is caused by a defective cutin matrix as the result of the loss of function of HvABCG31, an ABCG full transporter. Here, we report that eibi1 epidermal cells contain lipid-like droplets, which are supposed to consist of cutin monomers that have not been transported out of the cells. The eibi1 cuticle is fragile due to a defective cutin matrix. The rice ortholog of the EIBI1 gene has a similar pattern of expression, young shoot but not flag leaf blade, as the barley gene. The model of the function of Eibi1 is discussed. The HvABCG31 full transporter functions in the export of cutin components and contributed to land plant colonization, hence also to terrestrial life evolution.
HvCO9 was characterized to elucidate the barley flowering control mechanisms and to investigate the functional diversification of the barley CONSTANS-like (CO-like) genes in flowering. HvCO9 was located on the same chromosome, 1HL, as Ppd-H2 (HvFT3), which is a positive regulator of short-day (SD) flowering. A phylogenetic analysis showed that HvCO9 was located on the same branch of the CO-like gene tree as rice Ghd7 and the barley and wheat VRN2 genes, which are all negative regulators of flowering. High level HvCO9 expressions were observed under SD conditions, whereas its expression levels were quite low under long-day (LD) conditions. HvCO9 expression correlated with HvFT1 and HvFT2 expression under SD conditions, although no clear effect of HvCO9 on HvFT3 expression, or vice versa, under SD conditions was observed. The over-expression of HvCO9 in rice plants produced a remarkable delay in flowering. In transgenic rice, the expression levels of the flowering-related Ehd1 gene, which is a target gene of Ghd7, and its downstream genes were suppressed, causing a delay in flowering. These results suggest that HvCO9 may act as a negative regulator of flowering under non-inductive SD conditions in barley; this activity is similar to that of rice Ghd7 under non-inductive LD conditions, but the functional targets of these genes may be different. Our results indicate that barley has developed its own pathways to control flowering by using homologous genes with modifications for the timing of expression. Further, it is hypothesized that each pathway may target different genes after gene duplication or species diversification.
Utilizing phytochemicals in treating inflammation is becoming a viable alternative to pharmacological treatment. We have reported that fermented barley extract (FBE) effectively suppresses oxidative stress in chronically ethanol-fed rats. Here we report that FBE suppressed acute increases in oxidative stress as a response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation. Rats supplemented with FBE for 10 d showed decreases in plasma interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-α by 25%, 34%, and 35% respectively after LPS challenge. Liver damage was significantly suppressed, as marked by a 44% decrease in plasma alanine aminotransferase. FBE supplementation sustained liver anti-oxidative enzymes, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase, at transcriptional and enzymatic levels, thus suppressing oxidative stress markers such as plasma nitric oxide and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine, by 42% and 23% respectively. We concluded that active compounds in FBE effectively inhibited the propagation of inflammation by suppressing oxidative stress.
One way of enhancing and broadening resistance of plants to different biotic and abiotic stresses is to combine transgenes expressing several genes into a single line. This can be done using different strategies such as crossing, single vector with multiple genes, co-transformation, sequential transformation and IRES elements. In the present study conventional crossing method was used. Parental transgenic lines transformed via Agrobacterium tumefasciens-mediated gene transformation with pGreenII binary vector harbouring a bar gene as selectable marker in combination with the family 19 chitinase gene from Streptomyces olivaceoviridis for one line and 1,3-β-glucanase from barley (Hordeum vulgare) for the other line were used for crossing. Both chitinase and glucanase genes were cloned into pGreenII vector under the control of the constitutive double 35S-promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus. Progenies expressing the two genes were characterised at the molecular level using PCR, RT-PCR and Southern blot analysis, as well as segregation and stability studies of the respective expression levels. Leaf paint assay was used as functional test for herbicide resistant gene. Stable inheritance of the antifungal genes in the transgenic plants was demonstrated. The synergistic effect of crossed plants was tested using in vitro assay which shows higher inhibition of spore germination.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) has a much higher content of bioactive substances than wheat (Triticum aestivum). In order to investigate additive and/or synergistic effect(s) on the phytosterol content of barley chromosomes, we used a series of barley chromosome addition lines of common wheat that were produced by normal crossing. In determining the plant sterol levels in 2-week-old seedlings and dry seeds, we found that the level of stigmasterol in the barley chromosome 3 addition (3H) line in the seedlings was 1.5-fold higher than that in the original wheat line and in the other barley chromosome addition lines, but not in the seeds. Simultaneously, we determined the overall expression pattern of genes related to plant sterol biosynthesis in the seedlings of wheat and each addition line to assess the relative expression of each gene in the sterol pathway. Since we elucidated the CYP710A8 (cytochrome P450 subfamily)-encoding sterol C-22 desaturase as a key characteristic for the higher level of stigmasterol, full-length cDNAs of wheat and barley CYP710A8 genes were isolated. These CYP710A8 genes were mapped on chromosome 3 in barley (3H) and wheat (3A, 3B, and 3D), and the expression of CYP710A8 genes increased in the 3H addition line, indicating that it is responsible for stigmasterol accumulation. Overexpression of the CYP710A8 genes in Arabidopsis increased the stigmasterol content but did not alter the total sterol level. Our results provide new insight into the accumulation of bioactive compounds in common wheat and a new approach for assessing plant metabolism profiles.
Pathogenic and symbiotic bacteria rely on quorum sensing to coordinate the collective behavior during the interactions with their eukaryotic hosts. Many Gram-negative bacteria use N-acyl-homoserine lactones (AHLs) as signals in such communication. Here we show that plants have evolved means to perceive AHLs and that the length of acyl moiety and the functional group at the γ position specify the plant's response. Root treatment with the N-3-oxo-tetradecanoyl-L-homoserine lactone (oxo-C14-HSL) reinforced the systemic resistance to the obligate biotrophic fungi Golovinomyces orontii in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei in barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants. In addition, oxo-C14-HSL-treated Arabidopsis plants were more resistant toward the hemibiotrophic bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000. Oxo-C14-HSL promoted a stronger activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases AtMPK3 and AtMPK6 when challenged with flg22, followed by a higher expression of the defense-related transcription factors WRKY22 and WRKY29, as well as the PATHOGENESIS-RELATED1 gene. In contrast to wild-type Arabidopsis and mpk3 mutant, the mpk6 mutant is compromised in the AHL effect, suggesting that AtMPK6 is required for AHL-induced resistance. Results of this study show that AHLs commonly produced in the rhizosphere are crucial factors in plant pathology and could be an agronomic issue whose full impact has to be elucidated in future analyses.
(1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucans (mixed-linkage glucans) are found in tissues of members of the Poaceae (grasses), and are particularly high in barley (Hordeum vulgare) grains. The present study describes the isolation of three independent (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucanless (betaglucanless; bgl) mutants of barley which completely lack (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucan in all the tissues tested. The bgl phenotype cosegregates with the cellulose synthase like HvCslF6 gene on chromosome arm 7HL. Each of the bgl mutants has a single nucleotide substitution in the coding region of the HvCslF6 gene resulting in a change of a highly conserved amino acid residue of the HvCslF6 protein. Microsomal membranes isolated from developing endosperm of the bgl mutants lack detectable (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucan synthase activity indicating that the HvCslF6 protein is inactive. This was confirmed by transient expression of the HvCslF6 cDNAs in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. The wild-type HvCslF6 gene directed the synthesis of high levels of (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucans, whereas the mutant HvCslF6 proteins completely lack the ability to synthesize (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucans. The fine structure of the (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucan produced in the tobacco leaf was also very different from that found in cereals having an extremely low DP3/DP4 ratio. These results demonstrate that, among the seven CslF and one CslH genes present in the barley genome, HvCslF6 has a unique role and is the key determinant controlling the biosynthesis of (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucans. Natural allelic variation in the HvCslF6 gene was found predominantly within introns among 29 barley accessions studied. Genetic manipulation of the HvCslF6 gene could enable control of (1,3;1,4)-β-D-glucans in accordance with the purposes of use.
A systematic sequencing of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) was used to obtain a global picture of the assembly of barley genes differentially expressed during the hypersensitive reaction of a susceptible genotype in response to an incompatible Cochliobolus sativus pathovar. To identify a large number of plant ESTs, which are induced at different time points, an amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) display of complementary DNA (cDNA) was ulilized. Significant transcriptional changes in the host plant occurred already 4 h post inoculation. Four hundred and fifty six ESTs have been generated, of which 17 (c. 53% up-regulated, 47% down-regulated) have no previously described function. On one hand, the majority of EST-annotations showed protein synthesis, but genes related to signal transduction pathway were also identified. This study provides novel global catalogue ofgene regulations involved in C. sativus-barley interaction not currently represented in EST databases.
Recent advances in our understanding of how graminaceous plants take up insoluble forms of iron from the rhizosphere and mobilize them in plant tissues are primarily based on the identification of various transporters that are specific to metal-phytosiderophore (PS) complexes containing mugineic acid and deoxymugineic acid. Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) yellow stripe 1 (HvYS1) is a metal-PS transporter that preferentially transports Fe(III)-PS compared with other metal complexes. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of HvYSL2, a novel metal-PS transporter encoding gene. HvYSL2 is composed of 702 amino acids with 14 transmembrane domains, which are conserved among this class of transporters, and exhibits 67.3% identity to HvYS1. Electrophysiological experiments with Xenopus laevis oocytes revealed that HvYSL2 transports PS complexes with Fe(III), Zn(II), Ni(II), Cu(II), Mn(II) or Co(II); this constitutes a broader range of substrate preference than HvYS1. Real-time PCR analysis revealed that HvYSL2 mRNA is expressed in shoots and also in roots, where it is induced under iron-deficient conditions. Moreover, immunohistochemistry in roots revealed that HvYSL2 is localized to the endodermis, whereas HvYS1 is expressed primarily in the epidermis. These data suggest that HvYSL2 is spatially distinct from HvYS1 and plays a unique role in delivering a broad range of essential metals in barley.
Besides the established functions of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) in the flooding response and in seed and pollen metabolism there is increasing evidence for a role of the fermentative pathway in biotic interactions. We have recently shown that barley ADH may be involved in susceptibility to the parasitic fungus Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh). Here, the transcriptional regulation of the barley ADH genes HvADH1 and HvADH2 after challenge of susceptible barley leaves with Bgh is addressed. Bgh infection results in an induction of HvADH1 and HvADH2, whereas HvADH3 expression was not detectable in leaves. With the use of native polyacrylamide gels the iso-enzyme composition with and without challenge by Bgh was analyzed, showing an activation of HvADH1 and HvADH2 in Bgh treated leaves.
Iron is essential for most living organisms and its availability often determines survival and proliferation. The Oryza sativa (rice) transcription factor IDEF1 plays a crucial role in regulating iron deficiency-induced genes involved in iron homeostasis. In the present report, we found characteristic histidine-asparagine repeat and proline-rich regions in IDEF1 and its homolog in Hordeum vulgare (barley), HvIDEF1. An immobilized metal ion affinity chromatography assay revealed that IDEF1 and HvIDEF1 bind to various divalent metals, including Fe(2+) and Ni(2+) . Recombinant IDEF1 protein expressed in Escherichia coli contained mainly Fe and Zn. This metal-binding activity of IDEF1 was almost abolished by deletion of the histidine-asparagine and proline-rich regions, but DNA-binding and trans-activation functions were not impaired by the deletion. Transgenic rice plants constitutively overexpressing IDEF1 without these metal-binding domains failed to cause pleiotropic effects conferred by overexpression of full-length IDEF1, including a low germination rate, impaired seedling growth, tolerance to iron deficiency in hydroponic culture, and enhanced expression of various iron deficiency-inducible genes. Impairment of the transcriptional regulation of IDEF1 by deletion of the metal-binding domains occurred primarily at an early stage of iron deficiency. These results suggest that the histidine-asparagine and proline-rich regions in rice IDEF1 directly bind to divalent metals and sense the cellular metal ion balance caused by changes in iron availability.
Benzoxazinones (Bxs) are major defensive secondary metabolites in wheat (Triticum aestivum), rye (Secale cereale), and maize (Zea mays). Here, we identified full sets of homeologous and paralogous genes encoding Bx glucosyltransferase (GT) and Bx-glucoside glucosidase (Glu) in hexaploid wheat (2n = 6x = 42; AABBDD). Four GT loci (TaGTa-TaGTd) were mapped on chromosomes 7A, 7B (two loci), and 7D, whereas four glu1 loci (Taglu1a-Taglu1d) were on chromosomes 2A, 2B (two loci), and 2D. Transcript levels differed greatly among the four loci; B-genome loci of both TaGT and Taglu1 genes were preferentially transcribed. Catalytic properties of the enzyme encoded by each homeolog/paralog also differed despite high levels of identity among amino acid sequences. The predominant contribution of the B genome to GT and Glu reactions was revealed, as observed previously for the five Bx biosynthetic genes, TaBx1 to TaBx5, which are separately located on homeologous groups 4 and 5 chromosomes. In rye, where the ScBx1 to ScBx5 genes are dispersed to chromosomes 7R and 5R, ScGT and Scglu were located separately on chromosomes 4R and 2R, respectively. The dispersal of Bx-pathway loci to four distinct chromosomes in hexaploid wheat and rye suggests that the clustering of Bx-pathway genes, as found in maize, is not essential for coordinated transcription. On the other hand, barley (Hordeum vulgare) was found to lack the orthologous GT and glu loci like the Bx1 to Bx5 loci despite its close phylogenetic relationship with wheat and rye. These results contribute to our understanding of the evolutionary processes that the Bx-pathway loci have undergone in grasses.
The barley stem rust resistance gene Reaction to Puccinia graminis 1 (Rpg1), encoding a receptor-like kinase, confers durable resistance to the stem rust pathogen Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici. The fungal urediniospores form adhesion structures with the leaf epidermal cells within 1 h of inoculation, followed by hyphae and haustorium formation. The RPG1 protein is constitutively expressed and not phosphorylated. On inoculation with avirulent urediniospores, it is phosphorylated in vivo within 5 min and subsequently degraded. Application of arginine-glycine-aspartic acid peptide loops prevented the formation of adhesion structures for spore attachment, the phosphorylation of RPG1, and germination of the viable spores. Arginine-glycine-aspartic acid affinity chromatography of proteins from the ungerminated avirulent rust spores led to the purification and identification of a protein with fibronectin type III and breast cancer type 1 susceptibility protein domains and a vacuolar protein sorting-associated protein 9 with a coupling of ubiquitin to endoplasmic reticulum degradation domain. Both proteins are required to induce in vivo phosphorylation and degradation of RPG1. Combined application of both proteins caused hypersensitive reaction on the stem rust-resistant cultivar Morex but not on the susceptible cultivar Steptoe. Expression studies indicated that mRNA of both genes are present in ungerminated urediniospores and are constitutively transcribed in sporelings, infected leaves, and haustoria in the investigated avirulent races. Evidence is presented that RPG1, in yeast, interacts with the two protein effectors from the urediniospores that activate cooperatively the stem rust resistance protein RPG1 long before haustoria formation.
Fusarium can survive, grow, and produce mycotoxins during malting. We evaluated the percentage of barley kernels infected with Fusarium (FI) and deoxynivalenol (DON) concentration in three barley treatments (high-quality, naturally infected, and Fusarium graminearum inoculated barley) during various stages of malting. We also applied real-time polymerase chain reaction (real-time PCR) and real-time reverse transcriptase PCR (real-time RT-PCR) methods to quantify trichothecene-producing (Tri5) DNA concentration and expression, respectively. We observed that FI significantly (P<0.05) increased during the germination stage of malting in all barley treatments. Temperatures of 49°C and higher during kilning reduced the FI in high-quality barley treatments, but for inoculated treatments temperatures in excess of 60°C were needed to reduce FI. The Tri5 DNA concentration ranged from non-detectable to 3.9 ng/50mg, 0.1 to 109.8 ng/50mg and 3.4 to 397.5 ng/50 mg in malted high-quality, inoculated and naturally infected barley treatments respectively. Strong gene expression (Tri5) in naturally infected barley treatments was found during the third day of germination, when compared to high-quality and inoculated barley treatments during malting. Deoxynivalenol was present even at high kilning temperatures, as DON is heat stable. The average DON concentration ranged from non-detectable to 0.1 μg/g, non-detectable to 1.1 μg/g, and 1.5 to 45.9 μg/g during various stages of malting in high-quality, inoculated and infected barley and malt samples respectively. Overall, the last 2 days of germination and initial stages of kilning were peak stages for FI, Tri5 gene production, Tri5 gene expression and DON production.
The genomes of cereals such as wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) are large and therefore problematic for the map-based cloning of agronomicaly important traits. However, comparative approaches within the Poaceae permit transfer of molecular knowledge between species, despite their divergence from a common ancestor sixty million years ago. The finding that null variants of the rice gene cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase 2 (OsCKX2) result in large yield increases provides an opportunity to explore whether similar gains could be achieved in other Poaceae members. Here, phylogenetic, molecular and comparative analyses of CKX families in the sequenced grass species rice, brachypodium, sorghum, maize and foxtail millet, as well as members identified from the transcriptomes/genomes of wheat and barley, are presented. Phylogenetic analyses define four Poaceae CKX clades. Comparative analyses showed that CKX phylogenetic groupings can largely be explained by a combination of local gene duplication, and the whole-genome duplication event that predates their speciation. Full-length OsCKX2 homologues in barley (HvCKX2.1, HvCKX2.2) and wheat (TaCKX2.3, TaCKX2.4, TaCKX2.5) are characterized, with comparative analysis at the DNA, protein and genetic/physical map levels suggesting that true CKX2 orthologs have been identified. Furthermore, our analysis shows CKX2 genes in barley and wheat have undergone a Triticeae-specific gene-duplication event. Finally, by identifying ten of the eleven CKX genes predicted to be present in barley by comparative analyses, we show that next-generation sequencing approaches can efficiently determine the gene space of large-genome crops. Together, this work provides the foundation for future functional investigation of CKX family members within the Poaceae.
Colonization of barley roots with the basidiomycete fungus Piriformospora indica (Sebacinales) induces systemic resistance against the biotrophic leaf pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (B. graminis). To identify genes involved in this mycorrhiza-induced systemic resistance, we compared the leaf transcriptome of P. indica-colonized and noncolonized barley plants 12, 24, and 96 h after challenge with a virulent race of B. graminis. The leaf pathogen induced specific gene sets (e.g., LRR receptor kinases and WRKY transcription factors) at 12 h postinoculation (hpi) (prepenetration phase) and vesicle-localized gene products 24 hpi (haustorium establishment). Metabolic analysis revealed a progressing shift of steady state contents of the intermediates glucose-1-phosphate, uridinediphosphate-glucose, and phosphoenolpyruvate 24 and 96 hpi, indicating that B. graminis shifts central carbohydrate metabolism in favor of sucrose biosynthesis. Both B. graminis and P. indica increased glutamine and alanine contents, whereas substrates for starch and nitrogen assimilation (adenosinediphosphate- glucose and oxoglutarate) decreased. In plants that were more B. graminis resistant due to P. indica root colonization, 22 transcripts, including those of pathogenesis-related genes and genes encoding heat-shock proteins, were differentially expressed ?twofold in leaves after B. graminis inoculation compared with non-mycorrhized plants. Detailed expression analysis revealed a faster induction after B. graminis inoculation between 8 and 16 hpi, suggesting that priming of these genes is an important mechanism of P. indica-induced systemic disease resistance.
Stem rust (Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici; Pgt) is a devastating fungal disease of wheat and barley. Pgt race TTKSK (isolate Ug99) is a serious threat to these Triticeae grain crops because resistance is rare. In barley, the complex Rpg-TTKSK locus on chromosome 5H is presently the only known source of qualitative resistance to this aggressive Pgt race. Segregation for resistance observed on seedlings of the Q21861 × SM89010 (QSM) doubled-haploid (DH) population was found to be predominantly qualitative, with little of the remaining variance explained by loci other than Rpg-TTKSK. In contrast, analysis of adult QSM DH plants infected by field inoculum of Pgt race TTKSK in Njoro, Kenya, revealed several additional quantitative trait loci that contribute to resistance. To molecularly characterize these loci, Barley1 GeneChips were used to measure the expression of 22,792 genes in the QSM population after inoculation with Pgt race TTKSK or mock-inoculation. Comparison of expression Quantitative Trait Loci (eQTL) between treatments revealed an inoculation-dependent expression polymorphism implicating Actin depolymerizing factor3 (within the Rpg-TTKSK locus) as a candidate susceptibility gene. In parallel, we identified a chromosome 2H trans-eQTL hotspot that co-segregates with an enhancer of Rpg-TTKSK-mediated, adult plant resistance discovered through the Njoro field trials. Our genome-wide eQTL studies demonstrate that transcript accumulation of 25% of barley genes is altered following challenge by Pgt race TTKSK, but that few of these genes are regulated by the qualitative Rpg-TTKSK on chromosome 5H. It is instead the chromosome 2H trans-eQTL hotspot that orchestrates the largest inoculation-specific responses, where enhanced resistance is associated with transcriptional suppression of hundreds of genes scattered throughout the genome. Hence, the present study associates the early suppression of genes expressed in this host-pathogen interaction with enhancement of R-gene mediated resistance.
The receptor-like protein kinases (RLKs) constitute a large and diverse group of proteins controlling numerous plant physiological processes, including development, hormone perception and stress responses. The cysteine-rich RLKs (CRKs) represent a prominent subfamily of transmembrane-anchored RLKs. We have identified a putative barley (Hordeum vulgare) CRK gene family member, designated HvCRK1. The mature putative protein comprises 645 amino acids, and includes a putative receptor domain containing two characteristic 'domain 26 of unknown function' (duf26) domains in the N-terminal region, followed by a rather short 17-amino-acid transmembrane domain, which includes an AAA motif, two features characteristic of endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-targeted proteins and, finally, a characteristic putative protein kinase domain in the C-terminus. The HvCRK1 transcript was isolated from leaves inoculated with the biotrophic fungal pathogen Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh). HvCRK1 transcripts were observed to accumulate transiently following Bgh inoculation of susceptible barley. Transient silencing of HvCRK1 expression in bombarded epidermal cells led to enhanced resistance to Bgh, but did not affect R-gene-mediated resistance. Silencing of HvCRK1 phenocopied the effective penetration resistance found in mlo-resistant barley plants, and the possible link between HvCRK1 and MLO was substantiated by the fact that HvCRK1 induction on Bgh inoculation was dependent on Mlo. Finally, using both experimental and in silico approaches, we demonstrated that HvCRK1 localizes to the ER of barley cells. The negative effect on basal resistance against Bgh and the functional aspects of MLO- and ER-localized HvCRK1 signalling on Bgh inoculation are discussed.
In this study of barley starch synthesis, the interaction between mutations at the sex6 locus and the amo1 locus has been characterized. Four barley genotypes, the wild type, sex6, amo1, and the amo1sex6 double mutant, were generated by backcrossing the sex6 mutation present in Himalaya292 into the amo1 'high amylose Glacier'. The wild type, amo1, and sex6 genotypes gave starch phenotypes consistent with previous studies. However, the amo1sex6 double mutant yielded an unexpected phenotype, a significant increase in starch content relative to the sex6 phenotype. Amylose content (as a percentage of starch) was not increased above the level observed for the sex6 mutation alone; however, on a per seed basis, grain from lines containing the amo1 mutation (amo1 mutants and amo1sex6 double mutants) synthesize significantly more amylose than the wild-type lines and sex6 mutants. The level of granule-bound starch synthase I (GBSSI) protein in starch granules is increased in lines containing the amo1 mutation (amo1 and amo1sex6). In the amo1 genotype, starch synthase I (SSI), SSIIa, starch branching enzyme IIa (SBEIIa), and SBEIIb also markedly increased in the starch granules. Genetic mapping studies indicate that the ssIIIa gene is tightly linked to the amo1 locus, and the SSIIIa protein from the amo1 mutant has a leucine to arginine residue substitution in a conserved domain. Zymogram analysis indicates that the amo1 phenotype is not a consequence of total loss of enzymatic activity although it remains possible that the amo1 phenotype is underpinned by a more subtle change. It is therefore proposed that amo1 may be a negative regulator of other genes of starch synthesis.
Fusarium seedling blight in cereals can result in significant reductions in plant establishment but has not received much attention. The disease often starts during seed germination due to sowing of the seeds infected by Fusarium spp. including Fusarium graminearum. In order to gain the first molecular insights into the response of the germinating barley seeds to F. graminearum for controlling the disease, germinating seeds were treated with water as control or inoculated with F. graminearum conidia and samples were harvested at 1, 2 and 3 days after inoculation (dai). Although germination rates were not significantly different between F. graminearum-inoculated and control samples, albumins and hydrogen peroxide were accumulated in the inoculated samples at 1-3 dai, indicating that there was an interaction between the germinating seeds and F. graminearum. Subsequently, a gel-based proteomic approach was employed to identify differentially expressed proteins in the seeds responding to fungal infection at 3 dai, which revealed 42 protein spots, 41 of which were identified by mass spectrometry. The up-regulated proteins mainly included heat shock proteins, antioxidant enzymes and the proteins involved in primary metabolism and detoxification whereas the majority of down-regulated proteins were plant protease inhibitors. The results suggest that there is a link between increased energy metabolism and oxidative stress in the germinating barley seeds in response to F. graminearum infection, which provides the first molecular insight into Fusarium seedling blight.
Recent studies suggest that abscisic acid (ABA) at its basal level plays an important role during seed set and grain filling events. Under drought stress ABA levels were found to be significantly enhanced in the developing seed. Until now we lack an understanding of (A) ABA homeostasis in developing seeds under terminal drought and (B) the interactive role of ABA in regulating the starch biosynthesis pathway in developing grains under terminal drought. We have recently reported the possible regulation of ABA homeostasis in source (flag leaf) and sink (developing grains) tissues under post-anthesis drought stress in barley and concluded that significantly enhanced ABA levels in developing grains are due to strong activation of the ABA deconjugation pathway and fine regulation of the ABA biosynthesis-degradation pathway.1 Additionally, we provided evidence for the role of ABA in differential regulation of starch biosynthesis genes and a significant upregulation of starch degradation beta amylase genes under drought, i.e. ABA not only influences the rate of starch accumulation but also starch quality.
An assay was developed to study inflammation-related immune responses of food compounds on monocytes and macrophages derived from THP-1 cell line. First strategy focused on the effects after stimulation with either lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or Concanavalin A (ConA). Gene expression kinetics of inflammation-related cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10 and TNF-α), inflammation-related enzymes (iNOS and COX-2), and transcription factors (NF-κB, AP-1 and SP-1) were analyzed using RT-PCR. Time dependent cytokine secretion was investigated to study the inflammation-related responses at protein level. LPS stimulation induced inflammation-related cytokine, COX-2 and NF-κB genes of THP-1 monocytes and THP-1 macrophages with the maximum up-regulation at 3 and 6 h, respectively. These time points, were subsequently selected to investigate inflammation modulating activity of three well known immuno-modulating food-derived compounds; quercetin, citrus pectin and barley glucan. Co-stimulation of LPS with either quercetin, citrus pectin, or barley glucan in THP-1 monocytes and macrophages showed different immuno-modulatory activity of these compounds. Therefore, we propose that simultaneously exposing THP-1 cells to LPS and food compounds, combined with gene expression response analysis are a promising in vitro screening tool to select, in a limited time frame, food compounds for inflammation modulating effects.
Glycine betaine (GB) is a compatible solute accumulated by many plants under various abiotic stresses. GB is synthesized in two steps, choline → betaine aldehyde → GB, where a functional choline-oxidizing enzyme has only been reported in Amaranthaceae (a chloroplastic ferredoxin-dependent choline monooxygenase) thus far. Here, we have cloned a cDNA encoding a choline monooxygenase (CMO) from barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants, HvCMO. In barley plants under non-stress condition, GB had accumulated in all the determined organs (leaves, internodes, awn and floret proper), mostly in the leaves. The expression of HvCMO protein was abundant in the leaves, whereas the expression of betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) protein was abundant in the awn, floret proper and the youngest internode than in the leaves. The accumulation of HvCMO mRNA was increased by high osmotic and low-temperature environments. Also, the expression of HvCMO protein was increased by the presence of high NaCl. Immunofluorescent labeling of HvCMO protein and subcellular fractionation analysis showed that HvCMO protein was localized to peroxisomes. [(14)C]choline was oxidized to betaine aldehyde and GB in spinach (Spinacia oleracea) chloroplasts but not in barley, which indicates that the subcellular localization of choline-oxidizing enzyme is different between two plant species. We investigated the choline-oxidizing reaction using recombinant HvCMO protein expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). The crude extract of HvCMO-expressing yeast coupled with recombinant BBD2 protein converted [(14)C]choline to GB when NADPH was added as a cofactor. These results suggest that choline oxidation in GB synthesis is mediated by a peroxisomal NADPH-dependent choline monooxygenase in barley plants.
Laser microdissection provides a useful method for isolating specific cell types from complex biological samples for downstream applications. In contrast to the texture of mammalian cells, most plant tissues exhibit a cell organization with hard, cellulose-containing cell walls, large vacuoles, and air spaces, thus complicating tissue preparation and extraction of macromolecules such as DNA and RNA. Especially, barley seeds show cell types with enormous differences in osmolarity (degenerating and differentiating tissues) and contain high amounts of the main storage product starch, thus requiring specific procedures for morphological preservation and RNA extraction. In this study, we report about methods allowing tissue-specific gene expression profiling of developing barley seeds. Details on aspects of tissue preparation, including fixation and embedding procedures, laser-capture microdissection, RNA isolation, and linear mRNA amplification to produce high-quality labelled probes for large-scale expression analysis are provided. Particular emphasis is placed on the fidelity of transcript data obtained by the developed methods in relation to the in vivo transcriptome.
Soil salinity is an increasing menace that affects agriculture across the globe. Plant adaptation to high salt concentrations involves integrated functions, including control of Na+ uptake, translocation and compartmentalization. Na+ transporters belonging to the HKT family have been shown to be involved in tolerance to mild salt stress in glycophytes such as Arabidopsis, wheat and rice by contributing to Na+ exclusion from aerial tissues. Here, we have analysed the role of the HKT transporter HKT2;1, which is permeable to K+ and Na+, in barley, a relatively salt-tolerant crop that displays a salt-including behaviour. In Xenopus oocytes, HvHKT2;1 co-transports Na+ and K+ over a large range of concentrations, displaying low affinity for Na+, variable affinity for K+ depending on external Na+ concentration, and inhibition by K+ (K(i) approximately 5 mm). HvHKT2;1 is predominantly expressed in the root cortex. Transcript levels are up-regulated in both roots and shoots by low K+ growth conditions, and in shoots by high Na+ growth conditions. Over-expression of HvHKT2;1 led to enhanced Na+ uptake, higher Na+ concentrations in the xylem sap, and enhanced translocation of Na+ to leaves when plants were grown in the presence of 50 or 100 mm NaCl. Interestingly, these responses were correlated with increased barley salt tolerance. This suggests that one of the factors that limits barley salt tolerance is the capacity to translocate Na+ to the shoot rather than accumulation or compartmentalization of this cation in leaf tissues. Thus, over-expression of HvHKT2;1 leads to increased salt tolerance by reinforcing the salt-including behaviour of barley.
The IF1 protein is one of the factors controlling translation initiation in bacteria. This protein is encoded by the infA gene, which, in several higher plants, is located in the plastome. Cytoplasmic Line 2 (CL2), an alboviridis barley mutant, was the first to be proposed as an infA gene mutation (T 157 C) in higher plants. This mutant was isolated from a chloroplast mutator genotype (cpm/cpm) and was made genetically stable by backcrosses with a wild-type nuclear genotype. In the present work, genetically stable CL2 plants were backcrossed as females by cpm/cpm plants in order to regain the mutator activity. Interestingly, a seedling carrying a first leaf blade with a darker green stripe on a typical CL2-mutant background was observed in the F(4) generation. The T 157 C transition was confirmed in tissues from the CL2 background, whereas a second transition (A 178 G) was also found in the darker stripe. Two clearly different levels of CL2 syndrome were observed in the seedlings of the F(5) and F(6) progenies. Those of the greener group carried both transitions. These results suggest a compensatory effect of the second mutation and support the involvement of the infA plastid gene in CL2 syndrome, confirming CL2 as the first mutant of this gene reported in higher plants.
Aquaporins are multifunctional membrane channels which belong to the family of major intrinsic proteins (MIPs) and are best known for their ability to facilitate the movement of water. In the present study, earlier results from microarray experiments were followed up. These experiments had suggested that, in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), aquaporin family members are expressed in distinct patterns during leaf development. Real-time PCR and in situ hybridization were used to analyse the level and tissue-distribution of expression of candidate aquaporins, focusing on plasma membrane and tonoplast intrinsic proteins (PIPs, TIPs). Water channel function of seven aquaporins, whose transcripts were the most abundant and the most variable, was tested through expression in yeast and, in part, through expression in oocytes. All PIP1 and PIP2 subfamily members changed in expression during leaf development, with expression being much higher or lower in growing compared with mature tissue. The same applied to those TIPs which were expressed at detectable levels. Specific roles during leaf development are proposed for particular aquaporins.
The micronutrient content of most cereal grains is low and responsible for malnutrition deficiencies in millions of people who rely on grains as their primary food source. Any strategy that can increase the micronutrient content of grain will have significant benefits to world health. We identified a gene from barley encoding a cell wall protein with multiple histidine (His)-rich motifs interspersed with short arabinogalactan-protein (AGP) domains and have called it Hordeum vulgare His-rich AGP (HvHRA1). Sequence analysis shows that His-rich AGPs are rare in plants and that the number of His-rich and AGP domains differ between cereals and dicots. The barley and wheat encoded proteins have more than 13 His-rich domains, whereas the putative rice orthologue has only 5 His-rich regions. His-rich motifs are well-established metal-binding motifs; therefore, we developed transgenic (Tx) rice plants that constitutively overexpress barley HvHRA1. There was no significant effect on plant growth or grain yield in Tx plants. Purification of AGPs from wild-type and Tx plants showed that only Tx plants contained detectable levels of a His-rich AGP. Calcein assay shows that the AGP fraction from Tx plants had increased binding affinity for Cu(2+) . Micronutrient analysis of brown and white rice showed that the grain nutrient yield for Fe, Zn and Cu was higher in two Tx lines compared to their respective nulls, although the differences were not statistically significant. This approach highlights the potential of the plant apoplast (cell wall) for storage of key nutrients through overexpression of genes for metal-binding proteins.
An HD-Zip IV gene from wheat, TaGL9, was isolated using a Y1H screen of a cDNA library prepared from developing wheat grain. TaGL9 has an amino acid sequence distinct from other reported members of the HD-Zip IV family. The 3' untranslated region of TaGL9 was used as a probe to isolate a genomic clone of the TaGL9 homologue from a BAC library prepared from Triticum durum L. cv. Langdon. The full-length gene containing a 3-kb-long promoter region was designated TdGL9H1. Spatial and temporal activity of TdGL9H1 was examined using promoter-GUS fusion constructs in transgenic wheat, barley and rice plants. Whole-mount and histochemical GUS staining patterns revealed grain-specific expression of TdGL9H1. GUS expression was initially observed between 3 and 8 days after pollination (DAP) in embryos at the globular stage and adjacent to the embryo fraction of the endosperm. Expression was strongest in the outer cell layer of the embryo. In developed wheat and barley embryos, strong activity of the promoter was only detected in the main vascular bundle of the scutellum, which is known to be responsible for the uptake of nutrients from the endosperm during germination and the endosperm-dependent phase of seedling development. Furthermore, this pattern of GUS staining was observed in dry seeds several weeks after harvesting but quickly disappeared during imbibition. The promoter of this gene could be a useful tool for engineering of early seedling vigour and protecting the endosperm to embryo axis pathway from pathogens during grain desiccation and storage.
We investigated in Syrian Golden hamsters the biological impact and its underlying mechanism of single whole grain breads supplemented with 2-3% hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC), a semisynthetic viscous soluble dietary fiber (SDF) as a substitute for gluten. Hamsters were fed high-fat diets supplemented with 48-65% (w/w) differently ground, freeze-dried single grain breads including whole grain wheat, barley, barley supplemented with HPMC, debranned oat, and oat supplemented with HPMC which were compared to a diet containing microcrystalline cellulose (control). All single grain breads significantly lowered plasma LDL-cholesterol concentrations compared to the control. Enrichment with HPMC further lowered plasma and hepatic cholesterol concentrations. Despite the reduced molecular weight of naturally occurring soluble (1--->3),(1--->4)-β-d-glucan (β-glucan) caused by the bread-making process, whole grain barley breads downregulated hepatic expression of CYP7A1 and HMG-CoAR genes that are responsible for bile acid and cholesterol synthesis, suggesting a possible role of bioactive compounds such as short-chain fatty acids and phenolic compounds from barley bread. Barley bread enriched with HPMC downregulated expression of ABCG5 gene. Taken together, it appears that distinctive modulation of synthesis and excretion of hepatic cholesterol and bile acid contributes to the cholesterol-lowering properties of whole grain barley breads and breads enriched with HPMC. These data suggests that alternative whole grain breads supplemented with HPMC may provide consumers with a staple food that can assist in cholesterol management.
Seed germination is a complex multi-stage developmental process, and mainly accomplished through concerted activities of many gene products and biological pathways that are often subjected to strict developmental regulation. Gibberellins (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA) are two key phytohormones regulating seed germination and seedling growth. However, transcriptional regulatory networks underlying seed germination and its associated biological pathways are largely unknown. The studies examined transcriptomes of barley representing six distinct and well characterized germination stages and revealed that the transcriptional regulatory program underlying barley germination was composed of early, late, and post-germination phases. Each phase was accompanied with transcriptional up-regulation of distinct biological pathways. Cell wall synthesis and regulatory components including transcription factors, signaling and post-translational modification components were specifically and transiently up-regulated in early germination phase while histone families and many metabolic pathways were up-regulated in late germination phase. Photosynthesis and seed reserve mobilization pathways were up-regulated in post-germination phase. However, stress related pathways and seed storage proteins were suppressed through the entire course of germination. A set of genes were transiently up-regulated within three hours of imbibition, and might play roles in initiating biological pathways involved in seed germination. However, highly abundant transcripts in dry barley and Arabidopsis seeds were significantly conserved. Comparison with transcriptomes of barley aleurone in response to GA and ABA identified three sets of germination responsive genes that were regulated coordinately by GA, antagonistically by ABA, and coordinately by GA but antagonistically by ABA. Major CHO metabolism, cell wall degradation and protein degradation pathways were up-regulated by both GA and seed germination. Those genes and metabolic pathways are likely to be important parts of transcriptional regulatory networks underlying GA and ABA regulation of seed germination and seedling growth. The studies developed a model depicting transcriptional regulatory programs underlying barley germination and GA and ABA regulation of germination at gene, pathway and systems levels, and established a standard transcriptome reference for further integration with various -omics and biological data to illustrate biological networks underlying seed germination. The studies also generated a great amount of systems biological evidence for previously proposed hypotheses, and developed a number of new hypotheses on transcriptional regulation of seed germination for further experimental validation.
The RNA binding protein, flowering control locus A, (FCA) regulates flowering in rice and Arabidopsis. FCA interacts with FY to auto-regulate its own transcripts as well as to control flowering by downregulating flowering locus C (FLC). We report the cloning and characterization of the gamma (γ) isoform of FCA from barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. McLeod). The deduced protein contained two RNA recognition motifs (RRMs), a glycine-rich region at the N-terminal end, a polyglutamine region immediately downstream of a WW domain. Barley FCA had greater protein sequence homology to wheat and rice FCA than to its Arabidopsis homolog. In developing barley embryos, FCA transcripts could be detected from 2 days after pollination (DAP) up to 40 DAP. FCA transcript levels in mature barley embryo were more abundant in non-germinated than in germinated seeds, with the levels declining as germination progressed. ABA inhibition of germination inhibited the decline of barley embryo FCA. Transient co-expression of FCA or a truncated FCA (lacking RRM) with maize VP1 promoter or wheat Em gene promoter in barley aleurone protoplasts led to increased VP1 and Em gene promoter activity. Barley FCA or truncated FCA localized in the nucleus suggested its role in gene regulation.
Genetic variation in phosphorus (P) efficiency exists among wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) genotypes, but the underlying mechanisms for the variation remain elusive. High- and low-affinity phosphate (Pi) PHT1 transporters play an indispensable role in P acquisition and remobilization. However, little is known about genetic variation in PHT1 gene expression and association with P acquisition efficiency (PAE) and P utilization efficiency (PUE). Here, we present quantitative analyses of transcript levels of high- and low-affinity PHT1 Pi transporters in four barley genotypes differing in PAE. The results showed that there was no clear pattern in the expression of four paralogs of the high-affinity Pi transporter HvPHT1;1 among the four barley genotypes, but the expression of a low-affinity Pi transporter, HvPHT1;6, and its close homolog HvHPT1;3 was correlated with the genotypes differing in PUE. Interestingly, the expression of HvPHT1;6 and HvPHT1;3 was correlated with the expression of HvIPS1 (for P starvation inducible; noncoding RNA) but not with HvIPS2, suggesting that HvIPS1 plays a distinct role in the regulation of the low-affinity Pi transporters. In addition, high PUE was found to be associated with high root-shoot ratios in low-P conditions, indicating that high carbohydrate partitioning into roots occurs simultaneously with high PUE. However, high PUE accompanying high carbon partitioning into roots could result in low PAE. Therefore, the optimization of PUE through the modification of low-affinity Pi transporter expression may assist further improvement of PAE for low-input agriculture systems.
The wild barley Hordeum chilense Roem. et Schult. is a valuable source of genes for increasing carotenoid content in wheat. Tritordeums, the amphiploids derived from durum or common wheat and H. chilense, systematically show higher values of yellow pigment colour and carotenoid content than durum wheat. Phytoene synthase 1 gene (Psy1) is considered a key step limiting the carotenoid biosynthesis, and the correlation of Psy1 transcripts accumulation and endosperm carotenoid content has been demonstrated in the main grass species. We analyze the variability of Psy1 alleles in three lines of H. chilense (H1, H7 and H16) representing the three ecotypes described in this species. Moreover, we analyze Psy1 expression in leaves and in two seed developing stages of H1 and H7, showing mRNA accumulation patterns similar to those of wheat. Finally, we identify thirty-six different transcripts forms originated by alternative splicing of the 5' UTR and/or exons 1 to 5 of Psy1 gene. Transcripts function is tested in a heterologous complementation assay, revealing that from the sixteen different predicted proteins only four types (those of 432, 370, 364 and 271 amino acids), are functional in the bacterial system. The large number of transcripts originated by alternative splicing of Psy1, and the coexistence of functional and non functional forms, suggest a fine regulation of PSY activity in H. chilense. This work is the first analysis of H. chilense Psy1 gene and the results reported here are the bases for its potential use in carotenoid enhancement in durum wheat.
To investigate the hypocholesterolemic mechanism of barley in vivo, six-week-old C57BL/6J mice were fed a high-fat diet (HFD) or high-fat diet containing barley (HFD-B) for seven weeks. Total and LDL cholesterol concentrations were significantly reduced in the HFD-B group while fecal cholesterol and bile acid was increased. Real-time PCR and immunoblot analysis revealed the induction of FXR expression, which in turn suppressed the expression of ASBT and NPC1L1 in the HFD-B group compared with the controls. In the liver, the expression of HMG-CoA reductase was significantly reduced while LDL receptor expression was unaltered in the HFD-B group compared with the controls. Our data suggest that the hypocholesterolemic effects of barley are primarily the result of reduced dietary cholesterol uptake and bile acid resorption. Reduced expression of intestinal ASBT and NPC1L1 may play a key role in the regulation of dietary cholesterol and bile acid metabolism in mice consuming a diet containing barley.
Fusarium graminearum, the causal agent of head blight of wheat, was the third filamentous fungus to have a completed genome sequence. Since the release of the genome sequence in 2003, F. graminearum has become a model for studies of genomics and transcriptomics, mycotoxins, fungal population genetics, gene function, and sexual development. Herein we present the techniques we have used in our laboratory to perform expression analyses on life cycle stages of F. graminearum and techniques to functionally characterize those genes identified as potentially interesting.
Barley is an alternative host for the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae but is resistant to Magnaporthe species associated with the grass genera Pennisetum and Digitaria. The latter cases are examples for nonhost resistance which confers effective and durable protection to plants against a broad spectrum of pathogens. Comparative transcript profiling of host and nonhost interaction revealed an early and pronounced change in gene expression in epidermal tissue of barley infected with a Magnaporthe nonhost isolate. Interestingly, this set of genes did not overlap considerably with the transcriptional response of barley against nonhost rust or powdery mildew isolates. For a functional testing of candidate genes a combined approach of virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) and subsequent pathogen challenge was established. As anticipated, VIGS-mediated down-regulation of Mlo-transcripts led to higher resistance against Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei and enhanced susceptibility against M. oryzae.
Fusarium graminearum causes head blight disease in wheat and barley. To help understand the infection process on wheat, we studied global gene expression of F. graminearum in a time series from 24 to 196 h after inoculation, compared with a noninoculated control. The infection was rapid and, after 48 h, over 4,000 fungal genes were expressed. The number of genes expressed increased over time up to 96 h (>8,000 genes), and then declined at the 144- and 192-h post-inoculation time points. After subtraction of genes found expressed on complete medium, during carbon or nitrogen starvation, and on barley, only 355 were found exclusively expressed in wheat, mostly genes with unknown function (72.6%). These genes were mainly found in single-nucleotide polymorphism-enriched islands on the chromosomes, suggesting a higher evolutionary selection pressure. The annotated genes were enriched in functional groups predicted to be involved in allantoin and allantoate transport, detoxification, nitrogen, sulfur and selenium metabolism, secondary metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and degradation of polysaccharides and ester compounds. Several putative secreted virulence factors were also found expressed in wheat.
Seed growth and accumulation of storage products relies on the delivery of sucrose from the maternal to the filial tissues. The transport route is hidden inside the seed and has never been visualized in vivo. Our approach, based on high-field nuclear magnetic resonance and a custom made (13)C/(1) H double resonant coil, allows the non-invasive imaging and monitoring of sucrose allocation within the seed. The new technique visualizes the main stream of sucrose and determines its velocity during the grain filling in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Quantifiable dynamic images are provided, which allow observing movement of (13)C-sucrose at a sub-millimetre level of resolution. The analysis of genetically modified barley grains (Jekyll transgenic lines, seg8 and Risø13 mutants) demonstrated that sucrose release via the nucellar projection towards the endosperm provides an essential mean for the control of seed growth by maternal organism. The sucrose allocation was further determined by structural and metabolic features of endosperm. Sucrose monitoring was integrated with an in silico flux balance analysis, representing a powerful platform for non-invasive study of seed filling in crops.
Large data sets are generated from plants by the various 'omics platforms. Currently, a limiting step in data analysis is the assessment of protein function and its translation into a biological context. The lack of robust high-throughput transformation systems for monocotyledonous plants, to which the vast majority of crop plants belong, is a major restriction and impedes exploitation of novel traits in agriculture. Here we present a stable root transformation system for barley, termed STARTS, that allows assessment of gene function in root tissues within 6 weeks. The system is based on the finding that a callus, produced on root induction medium from the scutellum of the immature embryo, is able to regenerate roots from single transformed cells by concomitant suppression of shoot development. Using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transfer of genes involved in root development and pathogenesis, we show that those calli regenerate large amounts of uniformly transformed roots for in situ functional analysis of newly expressed proteins.
Transgenesis of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) from different origins has emerged as an option for improvement of crop disease resistance since proof-of-concept for their activities against microbial phytopathogens is provided, persistently. Nevertheless, a more systematic approach based on knowledge of AMPs modes of action including elucidation of their cellular targets and possible impact on immune system considerably improves and diversifies the armory against harmful plant diseases. In present study, the impact of Metchnikowin (Mtk) expression in barley in terms of modulating different immune pathways was investigated. Monitoring of transcript abundance of different genes involved in key immune pathways of SAR, ISR, and redox milieu during interaction of Mtk barley with biotrophic Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh) demonstrated that several immune responses are modulated in Mtk transgenic plants. Present findings substantiate the higher activation of SAR pathway as well as ISR pathway in transgenic plants. Regarding susceptibility factors, nonetheless MLO gene is expressed more in Mtk plants and should lead to an increased cellular accessibility to Bgh, its impact is presumably overwhelmed by other mechanism(s) so that the plants show more resistance when challenging with Bgh. On the other hand, no obvious difference was observed between expression level of Bax inhibitor-1 (BI-1) in transgenic and wild type plants, which could be an indicative of its neutrality in resistance/susceptibility of transgenic plants to Bgh. The provided evidence on the involved pathways in Mtk-induced resistance improves our knowledge concerning impacts of AMPs expressed in diverse plant species on immune system of relevant transgenic plants.
Genes encoding two new isoforms of sucrose synthase from barley, HvSs3 and HvSs4, have been characterised and their expression patterns compared with those previously described for HvSs1 and HvSs2, in different organs and during seed maturation and germination. Their response to several abiotic stimuli has also been investigated in leaves: HvSs1 is up-regulated by anoxia and HvSs3 by water deprivation while no response is observed to 150 mM NaCl treatment; HvSs1 and HvSs3 are also induced by cold temperatures. Using translational fusions and transient expression analyses, the four isozymes have been localised not only to the cytoplasm but also along several cytoplasmic tracks and at the inner side of the cell membrane; besides, HvSS1 is also associated with mitochondria, a localisation that has been predicted in silico with the TargetP and Predotar programmes. These data suggest distinct although partially overlapping roles, for the four barley sucrose synthase isoforms, in the channelling of carbon towards different metabolic pathways within the cell.
Total glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) activity, protein abundance, and transcript levels of G6PDH isoforms were measured in response to exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) supply to barley (Hordeum vulgare cv Nure) hydroponic culture. Total G6PDH activity increased by 50% in roots treated for 12 h with exogenous 0.1 mM ABA. In roots, a considerable increase (35%) in plastidial P2-G6PDH transcript levels was observed during the first 3 h of ABA treatment. Similar protein variations were observed in immunoblotting analyses. In leaves, a 2-fold increase in total G6PDH activity was observed after ABA treatment, probably related to an increase in the mRNA level (increased by 50%) and amount of protein (increased by 85%) of P2-G6PDH. Together these results suggest that the plastidial P2-isoform plays an important role in ABA-treated barley plants.
The model organism Arabidopsis thaliana is readily used in basic research due to resource availability and relative speed of data acquisition. A major goal is to transfer acquired knowledge from Arabidopsis to crop species. However, the identification of functional equivalents of well-characterized Arabidopsis genes in other plants is a nontrivial task. It is well documented that transcriptionally coordinated genes tend to be functionally related and that such relationships may be conserved across different species and even kingdoms. To exploit such relationships, we constructed whole-genome coexpression networks for Arabidopsis and six important plant crop species. The interactive networks, clustered using the HCCA algorithm, are provided under the banner PlaNet (http://aranet.mpimp-golm.mpg.de). We implemented a comparative network algorithm that estimates similarities between network structures. Thus, the platform can be used to swiftly infer similar coexpressed network vicinities within and across species and can predict the identity of functional homologs. We exemplify this using the PSA-D and chalcone synthase-related gene networks. Finally, we assessed how ontology terms are transcriptionally connected in the seven species and provide the corresponding MapMan term coexpression networks. The data support the contention that this platform will considerably improve transfer of knowledge generated in Arabidopsis to valuable crop species.
It is not known to what degree aquaporin-facilitated water uptake differs between root developmental regions and types of root. The aim of this study was to measure aquaporin-dependent water flow in the main types of root and root developmental regions of 14- to 17-d-old barley plants and to identify candidate aquaporins which mediate this flow. Water flow at root level was related to flow at cell and plant level. Plants were grown hydroponically. Hydraulic conductivity of cells and roots was determined with a pressure probe and through exudation, respectively, and whole-plant water flow (transpiration) determined gravimetrically in response to the commonly used aquaporin inhibitor HgCl(2). Expression of aquaporins was analysed by real-time PCR and in situ hybridization. Hydraulic conductivity of cortical cells in seminal roots was largest in lateral roots; it was smallest in the fully mature zone and intermediate in the not fully mature 'transition' zone along the main root axis. Adventitious roots displayed an even higher (3- to 4-fold) cortical cell hydraulic conductivity in the transition zone. This coincided with 3- to 4-fold higher expression of three aquaporins (HvPIP2;2, HvPIP2;5, HvTIP1:1). These were expressed (also) in cortical tissue. The largest inhibition of water flow (83-95%) in response to HgCl(2) was observed in cortical cells. Water flow through roots and plants was reduced less (40-74%). It is concluded that aquaporins contribute substantially to root water uptake in 14- to 17-d-old barley plants. Most water uptake occurs through lateral roots. HvPIP2;5, HvPIP2;2, and HvTIP1;1 are prime candidates to mediate water flow in cortical tissue.
Water homeostasis is crucial to the growth and survival of plants under water-related stress. Plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs) have been shown to be primary channels mediating water uptake in plant cells. Here we report the water transport activity and mechanisms for the regulation of barley (Hordeum vulgare) PIP aquaporins. HvPIP2 but not HvPIP1 channels were found to show robust water transport activity when expressed alone in Xenopus laevis oocytes. However, the co-expression of HvPIP1 with HvPIP2 in oocytes resulted in significant increases in activity compared with the expression of HvPIP2 alone, suggesting the participation of HvPIP1 in water transport together with HvPIP2 presumably through heteromerization. Severe salinity stress (200 mM NaCl) significantly reduced root hydraulic conductivity (Lp(r)) and the accumulation of six of 10 HvPIP mRNAs. However, under relatively mild stress (100 mM NaCl), only a moderate reduction in Lp(r) with no significant difference in HvPIP mRNA levels was observed. Sorbitol-mediated osmotic stress equivalent to 100 and 200 mM NaCl induced nearly identical Lp(r) reductions in barley roots. Furthermore, the water transport activity in intact barley roots was suggested to require phosphorylation that is sensitive to a kinase inhibitor, staurosporine. HvPIP2s also showed water efflux activity in Xenopus oocytes, suggesting a potential ability to mediate water loss from cells under hypertonic conditions. Water transport via HvPIP aquaporins and the significance of reductions of Lp(r) in barley plants during salinity stress are discussed.
Accumulated transcriptome data can be used to investigate regulatory networks of genes involved in various biological systems. Co-expression analysis data sets generated from comprehensively collected transcriptome data sets now represent efficient resources that are capable of facilitating the discovery of genes with closely correlated expression patterns. In order to construct a co-expression network for barley, we analyzed 45 publicly available experimental series, which are composed of 1,347 sets of GeneChip data for barley. On the basis of a gene-to-gene weighted correlation coefficient, we constructed a global barley co-expression network and classified it into clusters of subnetwork modules. The resulting clusters are candidates for functional regulatory modules in the barley transcriptome. To annotate each of the modules, we performed comparative annotation using genes in Arabidopsis and Brachypodium distachyon. On the basis of a comparative analysis between barley and two model species, we investigated functional properties from the representative distributions of the gene ontology (GO) terms. Modules putatively involved in drought stress response and cellulose biogenesis have been identified. These modules are discussed to demonstrate the effectiveness of the co-expression analysis. Furthermore, we applied the data set of co-expressed genes coupled with comparative analysis in attempts to discover potentially Triticeae-specific network modules. These results demonstrate that analysis of the co-expression network of the barley transcriptome together with comparative analysis should promote the process of gene discovery in barley. Furthermore, the insights obtained should be transferable to investigations of Triticeae plants. The associated data set generated in this analysis is publicly accessible at http://coexpression.psc.riken.jp/barley/.
RNA-binding proteins play critical roles at multiple steps during gene expression, including mRNA transport and translation. mRNA transport is particularly important in rice (Oryza sativa L.) in order to ensure the proper localization of the prolamine and glutelin seed storage proteins. However, relatively little information is available about RNA-binding proteins that have been isolated or characterized in plants. The RiceRBP database is a novel resource for the analysis of RNA-binding proteins in rice. RiceRBP contains 257 experimentally identified RNA-binding proteins, which are derived from at least 221 distinct rice genes. Many of the identified proteins catalogued in RiceRBP had not previously been annotated or predicted to bind RNA. RiceRBP provides tools to facilitate the analysis of the identified RNA-binding proteins, including information about predicted protein domains, phylogenetic relationships, and expression patterns of the identified genes. Importantly, RiceRBP also contains tools to search and analyze predicted RNA-binding protein orthologs in other plant species. We anticipate that the data and analysis tools provided by RiceRBP should facilitate the study of plant RNA-binding proteins. RiceRBP is available at http://www.bioinformatics2.wsu.edu/RiceRBP.
The polymerase chain reaction-based Mirror Orientation Selection (MOS) method was used to isolate low temperature-induced genes from cold-treated winter barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Dongbori). MOS screening identified a novel methionine (Met) aminopeptidase (MAP) designated as HvMAP. The deduced HvMAP protein was determined to possess an aminopeptidase domain and a nuclear localization signal. An in vitro enzyme assay using recombinant HvMAP protein demonstrated MAP activity. The expression of this gene was induced by low temperature and abscisic acid treatment, and overexpression of this gene conferred stronger freezing tolerance to Arabidopsis transgenic plants as compared to wild-type plants. Interestingly, low temperature treatment changed the localization of HvMAP from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. These findings suggest that HvMAP is a novel MAP that functions in freezing tolerance by facilitating protein maturation.
The review summarizes recent knowledge on the expression of cold-inducible dehydrins with a special attention to Wcs120 and Dhn5 genes in wheat and barley plants under different temperatures. When plants are exposed to cold, dehydrins start accumulating both in freezing-tolerant and freezing-susceptible plants; however, their accumulation correlates with plant acquired frost tolerance (FT). During a long-term cold acclimation (CA), dehydrin accumulation is significantly affected by Vrn1/Fr1 locus and the expression of the major vernalization gene VRN1, respectively. A different dynamics of dehydrin transcripts and proteins during CA is also observed. Transcripts reach their maximum within the first week of CA while proteins gradually accumulate until vernalization. Vernalization is associated with a significant decrease in dehydrin accumulation while the decrease of acquired FT is delayed. Studies carried out on plants grown at moderately cold temperatures (9-20 °C) have shown that both dehydrin transcripts and proteins can be detected even at these temperatures and that plants with different FT levels can be distinguished according to dehydrin accumulation without any exposure to severe cold. In conclusion, the potential use of these results in the breeding programmes aimed at the enhancement of wheat and barley FT is discussed.
Temperate cereals, such as wheat (Triticum spp.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare), respond to prolonged cold by becoming more tolerant of freezing (cold acclimation) and by becoming competent to flower (vernalization). These responses occur concomitantly during winter, but vernalization continues to influence development during spring. Previous studies identified VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1) as a master regulator of the vernalization response in cereals. The extent to which other genes contribute to this process is unclear. In this study the Barley1 Affymetrix chip was used to assay gene expression in barley seedlings during short or prolonged cold treatment. Gene expression was also assayed in the leaves of plants after prolonged cold treatment, in order to identify genes that show lasting responses to prolonged cold, which might contribute to vernalization-induced flowering. Many genes showed altered expression in response to short or prolonged cold treatment, but these responses differed markedly. A limited number of genes showed lasting responses to prolonged cold treatment. These include genes known to be regulated by vernalization, such as VRN1 and ODDSOC2, and also contigs encoding a calcium binding protein, 23-KD jasmonate induced proteins, an RNase S-like protein, a PR17d secretory protein and a serine acetyltransferase. Some contigs that were up-regulated by short term cold also showed lasting changes in expression after prolonged cold treatment. These include COLD REGULATED 14B (COR14B) and the barley homologue of WHEAT COLD SPECIFIC 19 (WSC19), which were expressed at elevated levels after prolonged cold. Conversely, two C-REPEAT BINDING FACTOR (CBF) genes showed reduced expression after prolonged cold. Overall, these data show that a limited number of barley genes exhibit lasting changes in expression after prolonged cold treatment, highlighting the central role of VRN1 in the vernalization response in cereals.
A doubled haploid (DH) barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) population of 334 lines (ND24260 × Flagship) genotyped with DArT markers was used to map genes for adult plant resistance (APR) to leaf rust (Puccinia hordei Otth) under field conditions in Australia and Uruguay. The Australian barley cultivar Flagship carries an APR gene (qRphFlag) derived from the cultivar Vada. Association analysis and composite interval mapping identified two genes conferring APR in this DH population. qRphFlag was mapped to the short arm of chromosome 5H (5HS), accounting for 64-85% of the phenotypic variation across four field environments and 56% under controlled environmental conditions (CEC). A second quantitative trait locus (QTL) from ND24260 (qRphND) with smaller effect was mapped to chromosome 6HL. In the absence of qRphFlag, qRphND conferred only a low level of resistance. DH lines displaying the highest level of APR carried both genes. Sequence information for the critical DArT marker bPb-0837 (positioned at 21.2 cM on chromosome 5HS) was used to develop bPb-0837-PCR, a simple PCR-based marker for qRphFlag. The 245 bp fragment for bPb-0837-PCR was detected in a range of barley cultivars known to possess APR, which was consistent with previous tests of allelism, demonstrating that the qRphFlag resistant allele is common in leaf rust resistant cultivars derived from Vada and Emir. qRphFlag has been designated Rph20, the first gene conferring APR to P. hordei to be characterised in barley. The PCR marker will likely be effective in marker-assisted selection for Rph20.
Dehydrins (DHNs), proteins with protective functions encoded by the late embryogenesis abundant (LEA), are differentially up-regulated at the transcriptional level under environmental stresses such as water deficit, salinity, and low temperature or in response to ABA. Data involving protein structure and expression of dehydrins could elucidate their functional roles under dehydration conditions in plants. Dhn6 gene of 1767 bp with an intron (92 bp) in six-rowed barley, a member of LEA D11, was cloned into pMD18-T vector in the present study. It shared 93.18% identity with Hordeum vulgare ssp. vulgare (GenBank accession: AF043091), encoding a protein composed of 523 amino acid residues with the predicted molecular weight of 49.68 kDa and the theoretical isoelectric point of 8.04. Analyses of domain and structure indicated that the protein was dominantly composed of 83% hydrophillic amino acid residues, with numerous imperative curls and three loosed helixes. Three-dimensional measurement revealed that the water-soluble lipid-associating protein was attributed to its twisted cable formed by reverse paralleled chains. Moreover, the putative amphipathic α-helices formed by K-segments might play roles in protecting membrane structure in barley. Significantly, relatively high accumulations of Dhn6 gene were detected after 8 h of water deficit by real-time quantitative RT-PCR. These results possibly suggested that the accumulation of Dhn6 gene could be critical for resistant dehydration in plants.
Seed dormancy, defined as the inability to germinate under favourable conditions, is controlled by abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellins (GAs). Phytohormone signalling interacts with reactive oxygen species (ROS) signalling regarding diverse aspects of plant physiology and is assumed to be important in dormancy alleviation. Using dormant barley grains that do not germinate at 30 °C in darkness, we analysed ROS content and ROS-processing systems, ABA content and metabolism, GA-responsive genes and genes involved in GA metabolism in response to hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂) treatment. During after-ripening, the ROS content in the embryo was not affected, while the antioxidant glutathione (GSH) was gradually converted to glutathione disulphide (GSSG). ABA treatment up-regulated catalase activity through transcriptional activation of HvCAT2. Exogenous H₂O₂ partially alleviated dormancy although it was associated with a small increase in embryonic ABA content related to a slight induction of HvNCED transcripts. H₂O₂ treatment did not affect ABA sensitivity but up-regulated the expression of HvExpA11 (GA-induced gene), inhibited the expression of HvGA2ox3 involved in GA catabolism and enhanced the expression of HvGA20ox1 implicated in GA synthesis. In barley, H₂O₂ could be implicated in dormancy alleviation through activation of GA signalling and synthesis rather than repression of ABA signalling.
Cyclic AMP (cAMP) signaling plays an important role in regulating multiple cellular responses, such as growth, morphogenesis, and/or pathogenicity of eukaryotic organisms such as fungi. As a second messenger, cAMP is important in the activation of downstream effector molecules. The balance of intracellular cAMP levels depends on biosynthesis by adenylyl cyclases (ACs) and hydrolysis by cAMP phosphodiesterases (PDEases). The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae contains a high-affinity (PdeH/Pde2) and a low-affinity (PdeL/Pde1) PDEases, and a previous study showed that PdeH has a major role in asexual differentiation and pathogenicity. Here, we show that PdeL is required for asexual development and conidial morphology, and it also plays a minor role in regulating cAMP signaling. This is in contrast to PdeH whose mutation resulted in major defects in conidial morphology, cell wall integrity, and surface hydrophobicity, as well as a significant reduction in pathogenicity. Consistent with both PdeH and PdeL functioning in cAMP signaling, disruption of PDEH only partially rescued the mutant phenotype of ΔmagB and Δpka1. Further studies suggest that PdeH might function through a feedback mechanism to regulate the expression of pathogenicity factor Mpg1 during surface hydrophobicity and pathogenic development. Moreover, microarray data revealed new insights into the underlying cAMP regulatory mechanisms that may help to identify potential pathogenicity factors for the development of new disease management strategies.
Sib-seedlings of 95 strains of the strictly autogamous grass Hordeum euclaston were analyzed by horizontal polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis for four isoenzyme systems at a specific ontogenetic stage. We found differences in the activity of some genes among individuals of this species. Hence, an ontogenetic analysis was carried out to investigate 12 strains at five ontogenetic stages, to determine the patterns of expression of these genes during development. The differences in the presence versus absence of certain isoenzyme bands may be due to differential regulatory activation in response to environmental differences, as all plants showed the same structural genes, although these genes were active in different tissues and/or times of development. These results indicate the importance of differential gene activation in the metabolic phenotype variability of this strictly autogamous, highly homozygous species. The same structural alleles for isoenzymes showed the active form of the enzymes (phenotypic expression) to be present in different tissues and/or stages of development. Differential isoenzyme gene activation was shown to be directly responsible for the enzymatic variability (metabolic phenotype) presented by the plants, which seem to possess almost no heterozygosis.
The ability of two strains of Azospirillum brasilense to mitigate NaCl stress in barley plants was evaluated. Barley seedlings were inoculated and subjected to 200 mM NaCl for 18 days. Several days after NaCl treatment, a significant decline in biomass as well as in height was observed in uninoculated plants. However, smaller reductions in biomass and height were detected in plants inoculated with strain Az39. All the stressed plants showed significantly higher Na(+) but lower K(+) contents in their shoots. The growth rate of uninoculated plants was adversely affected by saline treatment, which was associated with higher putrescine content and lower levels of HvPIP2;1 transcripts in the roots. Azospirillum inoculation triggered the transcription of this gene. Our results suggest that barley plants inoculated with A. brasilense may be better prepared to thrive under saline conditions. To our knowledge, this is the first report showing an effect of Azospirillum inoculation on the expression of PIP2;1, a gene involved in the synthesis of root water channels.
We report a series of microarray-based comparisons of gene expression in the leaf and crown of the winter barley cultivar Luxor, following the exposure of young plants to various periods of low (above and below zero) temperatures. A transcriptomic analysis identified genes which were either expressed in both the leaf and crown, or specifically in one or the other. Among the former were genes responsible for calcium and abscisic acid signalling, polyamine synthesis, late embryogenesis abundant proteins and dehydrins. In the crown, the key organ for cereal overwintering, cold treatment induced transient changes in the transcription of nucleosome assembly genes, and especially H2A and HTA11, which have been implicated in cold sensing in Arabidopsis thaliana. In the leaf, various heat-shock proteins were induced. Differences in expression pattern between the crown and leaf were frequent for genes involved in certain pathways responsible for osmolyte production (sucrose and starch, raffinose, γ-aminobutyric acid metabolism), sugar signalling (trehalose metabolism) and secondary metabolism (lignin synthesis). The action of proteins with antifreeze activity, which were markedly induced during hardening, was demonstrated by a depression in the ice nucleation temperature.
MicroRNAs are important components of the regulatory network of biological systems and thousands have been discovered in both animals and plants. Systematic investigations performed in species with sequenced genomes such as Arabidopsis, rice, poplar and Brachypodium have provided insights into the evolutionary relationships of this class of small RNAs among plants. However, miRNAs from barley, one of the most important cereal crops, remain unknown. We performed a large scale study of barley miRNAs through deep sequencing of small RNAs extracted from leaves of two barley cultivars. By using the presence of miRNA precursor sequences in related genomes as one of a number of supporting criteria, we identified up to 100 miRNAs in barley. Of these only 56 have orthologs in wheat, rice or Brachypodium that are known to be expressed, while up to 44 appear to be specifically expressed in barley. Our study, the first large scale investigation of small RNAs in barley, has identified up to 100 miRNAs. We demonstrate that reliable identification of miRNAs via deep sequencing in a species whose genome has not been sequenced requires a more careful analysis of sequencing errors than is commonly performed. We devised a read filtering procedure for dealing with errors. In addition, we found that the use of a large dataset of almost 35 million reads permits the use of read abundance distributions along putative precursor sequences as a practical tool for isolating miRNAs in a large background of reads originating from other non-coding and coding RNAs. This study therefore provides a generic approach for discovering novel miRNAs where no genome sequence is available.
Zeins, the prolamin storage proteins found in maize (Zea mays), accumulate in accretions called protein bodies inside the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of starchy endosperm cells. We found that genes encoding zeins, α-globulin, and legumin-1 are transcribed not only in the starchy endosperm but also in aleurone cells. Unlike the starchy endosperm, aleurone cells accumulate these storage proteins inside protein storage vacuoles (PSVs) instead of the ER. Aleurone PSVs contain zein-rich protein inclusions, a matrix, and a large system of intravacuolar membranes. After being assembled in the ER, zeins are delivered to the aleurone PSVs in atypical prevacuolar compartments that seem to arise at least partially by autophagy and consist of multilayered membranes and engulfed cytoplasmic material. The zein-containing prevacuolar compartments are neither surrounded by a double membrane nor decorated by AUTOPHAGY RELATED8 protein, suggesting that they are not typical autophagosomes. The PSV matrix contains glycoproteins that are trafficked through a Golgi-multivesicular body (MVB) pathway. MVBs likely fuse with the multilayered, autophagic compartments before merging with the PSV. The presence of similar PSVs also containing prolamins and large systems of intravacuolar membranes in wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) starchy endosperm suggests that this trafficking mechanism may be common among cereals.
Plant primary energy metabolism is profoundly reorganized under biotic stress conditions and there is increasing evidence for a role for the fermentative pathway in biotic interactions. However, the mechanisms regulating metabolic reprogramming are not well understood despite its critical function in the biotic stress response. Here the function of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) in the interaction of barley with the parasitic fungus Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh) is addressed. Challenge of susceptible barley leaves with Bgh resulted in transcriptional activation of HvADH1 and an induction of ADH enzyme activity starting 24 h after infection and reaching a clear-cut effect 4 d after infection. This increase in ADH enzyme activity was not observed in the resistant near-isogenic mlo5 line. Moreover, an induction of ADH enzyme activity by Bgh was enhanced in the presence of sucrose in hydroponically grown seedlings. Transient knock-down or overexpression of HvADH1 in barley epidermal cells mediated a decrease or increase in the penetration success of Bgh, respectively. Inhibition of ADH activity by pyrazole resulted in a delay in symptoms. The pyrazole effect could be overcome by adding glucose to the incubation medium, pinpointing a nutritional effect of ADH in the barley-Bgh interaction. Taken together, misexpression of pathogen-inducible HvADH1 or variation of ADH activity modulates the pathogen response of barley to the biotrophic fungal parasite Bgh. In this way, ADH knock-down/inhibition results in reduced fungal success. The possibility is discussed that ADH activity supports biotrophy by maintaining glycolytic metabolism in pathogen-stressed barley.
In one of the most important crops, barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), gene expression and physiological roles of most major intrinsic proteins (MIPs) remained to be elucidated. Here we studied expression of five tonoplast intrinsic protein isoforms (HvTIP1;2, HvTIP2;1, HvTIP2;2, HvTIP2;3 and HvTIP4;1), a NOD26-like intrinsic protein (HvNIP2;1) and a plasma membrane intrinsic protein (HvPIP2;1) by using the quantitative real-time RT-PCR. Five-day-old seedlings were exposed to abiotic stresses (salt, heavy metals and nutrient deficiency), abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellic acid (GA) for 24 h. Treatment with 100 mM NaCl, 0.1 mM ABA and 1 mM GA differentially regulated gene expression in roots and shoots. Nitrogen and prolonged P-deficiency downregulated expression of most MIP genes in roots. Intriguingly, gene expression was restored to the values in the control three days after nutrient supply was resumed. Heavy metals (0.2 mM each of Cd, Cu, Zn and Cr) downregulated the transcript levels by 60-80% in roots, whereas 0.2 mM Hg upregulated expressions of most genes in roots. This was accompanied by a 45% decrease in the rate of transpiration. In order to study the physiological role of the MIPs, cDNA of three genes (HvTIP2;1, HvTIP2;3 and HvNIP2;1) have been cloned and heterologous expression was performed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Osmotic water permeability was determined by a swelling assay. However, no water uptake activity was observed for the three proteins. Hence, the possible physiological role of the proteins is discussed.
Barley Mildew resistance locus a (Mla) is a major determinant of immunity to the powdery mildew pathogen, Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. Alleles of Mla encode cytoplasmic- and membrane-localized coiled-coil, nucleotide binding site, leucine-rich repeat proteins that mediate resistance when complementary avirulence effectors (AVR(a)) are present in the pathogen. Presence of an appropriate AVR(a) protein triggers nuclear relocalization of MLA, in which MLA binds repressing host transcription factors. Timecourse expression profiles of plants harboring Mla1, Mla6, and Mla12 wild-type alleles versus paired loss-of-function mutants were compared to discover conserved transcriptional targets of MLA and downstream signaling cascades. Pathogen-dependent gene expression was equivalent or stronger in susceptible plants at 20 h after inoculation (HAI) and was attenuated at later timepoints, whereas resistant plants exhibited a time-dependent strengthening of the transcriptional response, increasing in both fold change and the number of genes differentially expressed. Deregulation at 20 HAI implicated 16 HAI as a crucial point in determining the future trajectory of this interaction and was interrogated by quantitative analysis. In total, 28 potential transcriptional targets of the MLA regulon were identified. These candidate targets possess a diverse set of predicted functions, suggesting that multiple pathways are required to mediate the hypersensitive reaction.
The use of dwarfing genes has resulted in the most significant improvements in yield and adaptation in cereal crops. The allelic dwarfing gene sdw1/denso has been used throughout the world to develop commercial barley varieties. The sdw1 gene has never been used successfully for malting barley, but only for a large number of feed varieties. One of the gibberellin 20-oxidase genes (Hv20ox₂) was identified as the candidate gene for sdw1/denso. Semi-quantitative real-time RT-PCR revealed that Hv20ox₂ was expressed at different levels in various organs of barley. Transcriptional levels were reduced in leaf blade, sheath, stem and rachis tissue in the barley variety Baudin with the denso gene. Subsequently, the relative expression levels of Hv20ox₂ were determined by quantitative real-time RT-PCR in a doubled haploid population and mapped as a quantitative trait. A single expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) was identified and mapped to its structural gene region on chromosome 3H. The eQTL was co-located with QTLs for yield, height, development score, hectolitre weight and grain plumpness. The expression level of Hv20ox₂ was reduced fourfold in the denso mutant, but around 60-fold in the sdw1 mutant, compared to the control variety. The reduced expression level of Hv20ox₂ enhanced grain yield by increasing the number of effective tillers, but had negative effects on grain and malting quality. The sdw1 gene can be used only in feed barley due to its severe reduction of Hv20ox₂ expression. The gene expression marker for Hv20ox₂ can be used to distinguish different alleles of sdw1/denso.
Phytohormones control growth and development of plants. Their effects on the expression of nuclear genes are well investigated. Although they influence plastid-related processes, it is largely unknown whether phytohormones exert their control also by regulating the expression of plastid/chloroplast genes. We have therefore studied the effects of methyl jasmonate (MeJA), gibberellic acid (GA(3)), an auxin (indole-3-acetic acid, IAA), a brassinosteroid (24-epibrassinolide, BR) and a cytokinin (6-benzyladenine) on transcription (run-on assays) and transcript levels (RNA blot hybridization) of chloroplast genes after incubation of detached barley leaves in hormone solutions. BR was the only hormone without significant influence on chloroplast transcription. It showed, however, a weak reducing effect on transcript accumulation. MeJA, IAA and GA(3) repressed both transcription and transcript accumulation, while BA counteracted the effects of the other hormones. Effects of phytohormones on transcription differed in several cases from their influence on transcript levels suggesting that hormones may act via separate signaling pathways on transcription and transcript accumulation in chloroplasts. We observed striking differences in the response of chloroplast gene expression on phytohormones between the lower (young cells) and the upper segments (oldest cells) of barley leaves. Quantity and quality of the hormone effects on chloroplast gene expression seem to depend therefore on the age and/or developmental stage of the cells. As the individual chloroplast genes responded in different ways on phytohormone treatment, gene- and transcript-specific factors should be involved. Our data suggest that phytohormones adjust gene expression in the nucleo-cytoplasmic compartment and in plastids/chloroplasts in response to internal and external cues.
Transgenic peanut lines expressing oxalate oxidase, a novel enzyme to peanut, were evaluated for resistance to Sclerotinia blight in naturally infested fields over a 5-year period. Area under the disease progress curve (AUDPC) for transgenic lines in single rows planted with seed from single-plant selections averaged 78, 83, and 90% lower than nontransgenic parents in 2004, 2005, and 2006, respectively. In addition, AUDPC in 14 transgenic lines planted with bulked seed in two-row plots averaged 81% lower compared with nontransgenic parents in 2005 and 86% lower in 16 transgenic lines in 2006. Six transgenic lines yielded 488 to 1,260 kg/ha greater than nontransgenic parents in 2005, and 10 lines yielded 537 to 2,490 kg/ha greater in 2006. Fluazinam (0.58 kg a.i./ha) fungicide sprays in 2008 and 2009 reduced AUDPC in transgenic and nontransgenic lines but AUDPC was lowest in transgenic lines. Without fluazinam, yields of transgenic lines averaged 1,133 to 1,578 kg/ha greater than nontransgenic lines in 2008 and 1,670 to 2,755 kg/ha greater in 2009. These results demonstrated that the insertion of barley oxalate oxidase in peanut conveyed a high level of resistance to Sclerotinia blight, and negated the need for costly fungicide sprays.
The aim of these studies was to characterize nucleotide substitutions leading to the phenotype of brassinosteroid-insensitive, semi-dwarf barley mutant 093AR. Two substitutions in the sequence of barley HvBRI1 gene, encoding leucine-rich repeats receptor kinase (LRR-RK), which participates in brassinosteroid (BR) signalling, were identified in this chemically-induced barley mutant of the cv. Aramir. The LRR-RK is a transmembrane protein phosphorylating downstream components. The identified substitutions CC>AA at positions 1760 and 1761 in the HvBRI1 gene of this mutant led to a missense mutation, causing the Thr-573 to Lys-573 replacement in the protein sequence. The threonine residue is situated in the distal part of a 70-amino acids island responsible for binding of BR molecules. As this residue is conserved among BRI1 protein homologs in Arabidopsis thaliana, Lycopersicon esculentum, Oryza sativa and Hordeum vulgare, it was postulated that this residue is crucial for the protein function. The genetic analyses indicated that the mutant 093AR was allelic to the spontaneous, semi-dwarf mutant uzu which carries A>G substitution at position 2612 of the HvBRI1 gene (GenBank acc. no. AB088206). A comparison of the genomic sequence of HvBRI1 in the mutants uzu, 093AR and in the cv. 'Aramir' confirmed the presence of the single-nucleotide A>G substitution at position 2612 in the sequence encoding kinase domain of HvBRI1 polypeptide in uzu, but not in 093AR mutant, indicating that a new allele of the HvBRI1 gene was identified.
Drought is one of the most severe environmental stress factors limiting crop yield especially when occurring during anthesis and seed filling. This terminal drought is characterized by an excess production of the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) which plays an important role during seed development and dormancy. All the genes putatively involved in ABA biosynthesis and inactivation in barley were identified and their expression studied during plant ontogeny under standard and drought-stress conditions to learn more about ABA homeostasis and the possible mode of cross-talk between source and sink tissues. Out of 41 genes related to ABA biosynthesis and inactivation 19 were found to be differentially regulated under drought stress in both flag leaves and developing seed during seed filling. Transcripts of plastid-located enzymes are regulated similarly in flag leaf and seed under terminal drought whereas transcripts of cytosolic enzymes are differentially regulated in the two tissues. Detailed information on the expression of defined gene family members is supplemented by measurements of ABA and its degradation and conjugation products, respectively. Under drought stress, flag leaves in particular contain high concentrations of both ABA and the ABA degradation products phaseic acid (PA) and diphaseic acid (DPA); whereas, in seeds, besides ABA, DPA was mainly found. The measurements also revealed a positive correlation between ABA level and starch content in developing seeds for the following reasons: (i) genes of the ABA controlled SnRK2.6 and RCAR/PP2C-mediated signal transduction pathway to the ABF transcription factor HvABI5 are activated in the developing grain under drought, (ii) novel ABA- and dehydration-responsive cis-elements have been found in the promoters of key genes of starch biosynthesis (HvSUS1, HvAGP-L1) and degradation (HvBAM1) and these transcripts/activity are prominently induced in developing seeds during 12 and 16 DAF, (iii) spraying of fluridone (an ABA biosynthesis inhibitor) to drought-stressed plants results in severely impaired starch content and thousand grain weight of mature seeds.
HvALMT1 from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) encodes a protein capable of facilitating the transport of malate and other organic anions when expressed in Xenopus oocytes. The HvALMT1 gene is primarily expressed in guard cells of stomata, in regions behind the root apex and at lateral root junctions. We investigated the function of HvALMT1 in planta by overexpressing it in barley under the control of a constitutive promoter. Transgenic plants expressing HvALMT1 at levels four to 9-fold greater than controls showed reduced growth and plants showing the highest expression failed to set seed. Although measurements of conductance indicated that stomatal function was not totally impaired in the transgenic plants the time taken for the stomata to close in response to low light was significantly longer compared with controls. Elemental and metabolomic analyses of the transgenic barley shoots revealed that the concentration of calcium and levels of ascorbate, serine, threonine and pentanoate were consistently greater (2- to 14-fold) in plants that overexpressed HvALMT1, whereas whole-shoot tissue levels of fumarate were significantly lower (60-85% reduction). Transgenic plants also showed significantly greater efflux of malate and succinate from their roots than control plants. Efflux of these organic anions occurred independently of Al3+ and conferred greater Al3+ resistance in solution culture and in acidic soil. These results are consistent with HvALMT1 contributing to anion homeostasis in the cytosol and osmotic adjustment by transporting organic anions out of the cell or by sequestering them into cytosolic vesicles.
Two barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) β-amylase genes (Bmy1 and Bmy2) were studied during the late maturation phase of grain development in four genotypes. The Bmy1 and Bmy2 DNA and amino acid sequences are extremely similar. The largest sequence differences are in the introns, seventh exon, and 3' UTR. Accumulation of Bmy2 mRNA was examined in developing grain at 17, 19, and 21 days after anthesis (DAA). One genotype, PI 296897, had significantly higher Bmy2 RNA transcript accumulation than the other three genotypes at all developmental stages. All four genotypes had Bmy2 mRNA levels decrease from 17 to 19 DAA, and remain the same from 19 to 21 DAA. Levels of Bmy1 mRNA were twenty thousand to over one hundred thousand times more than Bmy2 mRNA levels in genotypes Legacy, Harrington, and Ashqelon at all developmental stages and PI 296897 at 19 and 21 DAA. PI 296897 had five thousand times more Bmy1 mRNA than Bmy2 mRNA at 17 DAA. However, Bmy2 protein was not found at 17 DAA in any genotype. The presence of Bmy2 was immunologically detected at 19 DAA and was present in greater amounts at 21 DAA. Also, Bmy2 protein was found to be stored in mature grain and localized in the soluble fraction. However, Bmy1 protein was far more prevalent than Bmy2 at all developmental stages in all genotypes. Thus, the vast majority of β-amylase activity in developing and mature grain can be attributed to endosperm-specific β-amylase.
The effect of artificial Fusarium graminearum and F. culmorum infection at the level of the proteome on grains of naked barley (Hordeum vulgare subsp. nudum) was investigated in comparison to naturally infected samples. Fusarium infection in barley led to numerous host-specific biochemical responses. NEPHGE 2-D PAGE and MS were used to identify proteins that were differentially expressed in response to fungal infection and growing location of the plants. Moreover, the mycotoxin concentration of the grains was evaluated to characterize the infection degree. Inoculation of naked barley with Fusarium led to grain deoxynivalenol concentrations of up to 1.2 mg/kg. The carbon and nitrogen grain concentrations were not significantly changed after fungal infection, but differed between growing locations. Eleven proteins related to fungal infection were detected as were three proteins with effects based on growing location. These proteins belong to different protein groups involved in various cell functions: transcription regulation, defence response, nutrient reservoirs and starch biosynthesis. The results gave indications on plant defence strategies and changes as response to Fusarium infection in mature grains after a long infection period as well as being influenced by the growing location.
Positional gene isolation in unsequenced species generally requires either a reference genome sequence or an inference of gene content based on conservation of synteny with a genomic model. In the large unsequenced genomes of the Triticeae cereals the latter, i.e. conservation of synteny with the rice and Brachypodium genomes, provides a powerful proxy for establishing local gene content and order. However, efficient exploitation of conservation of synteny requires 'homology bridges' between the model genome and the target region that contains a gene of interest. As effective homology bridges are generally the sequences of genetically mapped genes, increasing the density of these genes around a target locus is an important step in the process. We used bulked segregant analysis (BSA) of transcript abundance data to identify genes located in a specific region of the barley genome. The approach is valuable because only a relatively small proportion of barley genes are currently placed on a genetic map. We analyzed eQTL datasets from the reference Steptoe × Morex doubled haploid population and showed a strong association between differential gene expression and cis-regulation, with 83% of differentially expressed genes co-locating with their eQTL. We then performed BSA by assembling allele-specific pools based on the genotypes of individuals at the partial resistance QTL Rphq11. BSA identified a total of 411 genes as differentially expressed, including HvPHGPx, a gene previously identified as a promising candidate for Rphq11. The genetic location of 276 of these genes could be determined from both eQTL datasets and conservation of synteny, and 254 (92%) of these were located on the target chromosome. We conclude that the identification of differential expression by BSA constitutes a novel method to identify genes located in specific regions of interest. The datasets obtained from such studies provide a robust set of candidate genes for the analysis and serve as valuable resources for targeted marker development and comparative mapping with other grass species.
Yellow stripe-like (YSL) family transporters, belonging to a novel subfamily of oligopeptide transporter (OPT), has been proposed to be involved in metal uptake and long-distance transport, but only a few of them have been functionally characterized so far. In the present study, we isolated an uncharacterized member of the YSL family, HvYSL5, in barley based on expressed sequence tag (EST) information. HvYSL5 shared 50% identity with HvYS1, a transporter for the ferric-mugineic acid complex, at the amino acid level. Promoter analysis showed that the HvYSL5 upstream sequence contains both iron deficiency response element 1 and 2 (IDE1 and 2). HvYSL5 was expressed in the roots and the expression was greatly induced by Fe deficiency, but not by deficiency of other metals including Zn, Cu and Mn. Spatial investigation showed that much higher expression of HvYSL5 was found in the mature zones of the roots, but not in the root tips. Furthermore, the expression showed a diurnal rhythm, being the highest in the morning, but with no expression in the afternoon. HvYSL5 was localized in all root cells, and subcellular localization analysis showed that HvYSL5 is likely to be localized in the vesicles. Knockdown of HvYSL5 did not result in any detectable phenotype changes. Although the exact role of HvYSL5 remains to be examined, our results suggest that it is involved in the transient storage of Fe or phytosiderophores.
Constitutive promoters are widely used to functionally characterise plant genes in transgenic plants, but their lack of specificity and poor control over protein expression can be a major disadvantage. On the other hand, promoters that provide precise regulation of temporal or spatial transgene expression facilitate such studies by targeting over-expression or knockdown of target genes to specific tissues and/or at particular developmental stages. Here, we used the uidA (beta-glucuronidase, GUS) reporter gene to demonstrate that the barley Hvhsp17 gene promoter can be induced by heat treatment of 38-40 °C for 1-2 h in transgenic wheat. The GUS enzyme was expressed only in those tissues directly exposed to heat and not in neighbouring leaf tissues. The induction of HSP::GUS was demonstrated in all organs and tissues tested, but expression in older tissues was lower. Generally, proximal root sections showed less GUS activity than in root tips. This heat-inducible promoter provides the ability to investigate the function of candidate genes by overexpression or by down-regulation of target gene expression (for example by RNAi) in selected tissues or developmental stages of a transgenic plant, limited only by the ability to apply a heat shock to the selected tissues. It also allows the investigation of genes that would be lethal or reduce fertility if expressed constitutively.
Modeling of a complex biological process can explain the results of experimental studies and help predict its characteristics. Among such processes is transcription in the presence of competing RNA polymerases. This process involves RNA polymerases collision followed by transcription termination. A mathematical and computer simulation model is developed to describe the competition of RNA polymerases during genes transcription on complementary DNA strands. E.g., in the barley Hordeum vulgare the polymerase competition occurs in the locus containing plastome genes psbA, rpl23, rpl2 and four bacterial type promoters. In heat shock experiments on isolated chloroplasts, a twofold decrease of psbA transcripts and even larger increase of rpl23-rpl2 transcripts were observed, which is well reproduced in the model. The model predictions are in good agreement with virtually all relevant experimental data (knockout, heat shock, chromatogram data, etc.). The model allows to hypothesize a mechanism of cell response to knockout and heat shock, as well as a mechanism of gene expression regulation in presence of RNA polymerase competition. The model is implemented for multiprocessor platforms with MPI and supported on Linux and MS Windows. The source code written in C++ is available under the GNU General Public License from the laboratory website. A user-friendly GUI version is also provided at http://lab6.iitp.ru/en/rivals. The developed model is in good agreement with virtually all relevant experimental data. The model can be applied to estimate intensities of binding of the holoenzyme and phage type RNA polymerase to their promoters using data on gene transcription levels, as well as to predict characteristics of RNA polymerases and the transcription process that are difficult to measure directly, e.g., the intensity (frequency) of holoenzyme binding to the promoter in correlation to its nucleotide composition and the type of σ-subunit, the amount of transcription initiation aborts, etc. The model can be used to make functional predictions, e.g., heat shock response in isolated chloroplasts and changes of gene transcription levels under knockout of different σ-subunits or RNA polymerases or due to gene expression regulation.
Introduction of sustainable scab resistance in elite apple cultivars is of high importance for apple cultivation when aiming at reducing the use of chemical crop protectants. Genetic modification (GM) allows the rapid introduction of resistance genes directly into high quality apple cultivars. Resistance genes can be derived from apple itself but genetic modification also opens up the possibility to use other, non-host resistance genes. A prerequisite for application is the long-term performance and stability of the gene annex trait in the field. For this study, we produced and selected a series of transgenic apple lines of two cultivars, i.e. 'Elstar' and 'Gala' in which the barley hordothionin gene (hth) was introduced. After multiplication, the GM hth-lines, non-GM susceptible and resistant controls and GM non-hth controls were planted in a random block design in a field trial in 40 replicates. Scab resistance was monitored after artificial inoculation (first year) and after natural infection (subsequent years). After the trial period, the level of expression of the hth gene was checked by quantitative RT-PCR. Four of the six GM hth apple lines proved to be significantly less susceptible to apple scab and this trait was found to be stable for the entire 4-year period. Hth expression at the mRNA level was also stable.
The biosynthesis of the tocotrienol and tocopherol forms of vitamin E is initiated by prenylation of homogentisate. Geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGDP) is the prenyl donor for tocotrienol synthesis, whereas phytyl diphosphate (PDP) is the prenyl donor for tocopherol synthesis. We have previously shown that tocotrienol synthesis is initiated in monocot seeds by homogentisate geranylgeranyl transferase (HGGT). This enzyme is related to homogentisate phytyltransferase (HPT), which catalyzes the prenylation step in tocopherol synthesis. Here we show that monocot HGGT is localized in the plastid and expressed primarily in seed endosperm. Despite the close structural relationship of monocot HGGT and HPT, these enzymes were found to have distinct substrate specificities. Barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Morex) HGGT expressed in insect cells was six times more active with GGDP than with PDP, whereas the Arabidopsis HPT was nine times more active with PDP than with GGDP. However, only small differences were detected in the apparent Km values of barley HGGT for GGDP and PDP. Consistent with its in vitro substrate properties, barley HGGT generated a mixture of tocotrienols and tocopherols when expressed in the vitamin E-null vte2-1 mutant lacking a functional HPT. Relative levels of tocotrienols and tocopherols produced in vte2-1 differed between organs and growth stages, reflective of the composition of plastidic pools of GGDP and PDP. In addition, HGGT was able to functionally substitute for HPT to rescue vte2-1-associated phenotypes, including reduced seed viability and increased fatty acid oxidation of seed lipids. Overall, we show that monocot HGGT is biochemically distinct from HPT, but can replace HPT in important vitamin E-related physiological processes.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) and wheat (Triticum aestivum) possess significant phytase activity in the mature grains. Maize (Zea mays) and rice (Oryza sativa) possess little or virtually no preformed phytase activity in the mature grain and depend fully on de novo synthesis during germination. Here, it is demonstrated that wheat, barley, maize, and rice all possess purple acid phosphatase (PAP) genes that, expressed in Pichia pastoris, give fully functional phytases (PAPhys) with very similar enzyme kinetics. Preformed wheat PAPhy was localized to the protein crystalloid of the aleurone vacuole. Phylogenetic analyses indicated that PAPhys possess four conserved domains unique to the PAPhys. In barley and wheat, the PAPhy genes can be grouped as PAPhy_a or PAPhy_b isogenes (barley, HvPAPhy_a, HvPAPhy_b1, and HvPAPhy_b2; wheat, TaPAPhy_a1, TaPAPhy_a2, TaPAPhy_b1, and TaPAPhy_b2). In rice and maize, only the b type (OsPAPhy_b and ZmPAPhy_b, respectively) were identified. HvPAPhy_a and HvPAPhy_b1/b2 share 86% and TaPAPhya1/a2 and TaPAPhyb1/b2 share up to 90% (TaPAPhy_a2 and TaPAPhy_b2) identical amino acid sequences. despite of this, PAPhy_a and PAPhy_b isogenes are differentially expressed during grain development and germination. In wheat, it was demonstrated that a and b isogene expression is driven by different promoters (approximately 31% identity). TaPAPhy_a/b promoter reporter gene expression in transgenic grains and peptide mapping of TaPAPhy purified from wheat bran and germinating grains confirmed that the PAPhy_a isogene set present in wheat/barley but not in rice/maize is the origin of high phytase activity in mature grains.
The race-specific barley powdery mildew (Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei) resistance gene Mla occurs as an allelic series and encodes CC-NB-LRR type resistance proteins. Inter-generic allele mining resulted in the isolation and characterisation of an Mla homologue from diploid wheat, designated TmMla1, which shares 78% identity with barley HvMLA1 at the protein level. TmMla1 was found to be a functional resistance gene against Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici in wheat, hereby providing an example of R gene orthologs controlling the same disease in two different species. TmMLA1 exhibits race-specific resistance activity and its N-terminal coiled-coil domain interacts with the barley transcription factor HvWRKY1. Interestingly, TmMLA1 was not functional in barley transient assays. Replacement of the TmMLA1 LRR domain with that of HvMLA1 revealed that this fusion protein conferred resistance against B. graminis f. sp. hordei isolate K1 in barley. Thus, TmMLA1 not only confers resistance in wheat but possibly also in barley against an as yet unknown barley powdery mildew race. The conservation of functional R gene orthologs over at least 12 million years is surprising given the observed rapid breakdown of Mla-based resistance against barley mildew in agricultural ecosystems. This suggests a high stability of Mla resistance in the natural environment before domestication.
The increasingly narrow genetic background characteristic of modern crop germplasm presents a challenge for the breeding of cultivars that require adaptation to the anticipated change in climate. Thus, high priority research aims at the identification of relevant allelic variation present both in the crop itself as well as in its progenitors. This study is based on the characterization of genetic variation in barley, with a view to enhancing its response to terminal drought stress. The expression patterns of drought regulated genes were monitored during plant ontogeny, mapped and the location of these genes was incorporated into a comprehensive barley SNP linkage map. Haplotypes within a set of 17 starch biosynthesis/degradation genes were defined, and a particularly high level of haplotype variation was uncovered in the genes encoding sucrose synthase (types I and II) and starch synthase. The ability of a panel of 50 barley accessions to maintain grain starch content under terminal drought conditions was explored. The linkage/expression map is an informative resource in the context of characterizing the response of barley to drought stress. The high level of haplotype variation among starch biosynthesis/degradation genes in the progenitors of cultivated barley shows that domestication and breeding have greatly eroded their allelic diversity in current elite cultivars. Prospective association analysis based on core drought-regulated genes may simplify the process of identifying favourable alleles, and help to understand the genetic basis of the response to terminal drought.
The main storage compounds in Lolium perenne are fructans with prevailing β(2-6) linkages. A cDNA library of L. perenne was screened using Poa secunda sucrose:fructan 6-fructosyltransferase (6-SFT) as a probe. A full-length Lp6-SFT clone was isolated as shown by heterologous expression in Pichia pastoris. High levels of Lp6-SFT transcription were found in the growth zone of elongating leaves and in mature leaf sheaths where fructans are synthesized. Upon fructan synthesis induction, Lp6-SFT transcription was high in mature leaf blades but with no concomitant accumulation of fructans. In vitro studies with the recombinant Lp6-SFT protein showed that both 1-kestotriose and 6G-kestotriose acted as fructosyl acceptors, producing 1- and 6-kestotetraose (bifurcose) and 6G,6-kestotetraose, respectively. Interestingly, bifurcose formation ceased and 6G,6-kestotetraose was formed instead, when recombinant fructan:fructan 6G-fructosyltransferase (6G-FFT) of L. perenne was introduced in the enzyme assay with sucrose and 1-kestotriose as substrates. The remarkable absence of bifurcose in L. perenne tissues might be explained by a higher affinity of 6G-FFT, as compared with 6-SFT, for 1-kestotriose, which is the first fructan formed. Surprisingly, recombinant 6-SFT from Hordeum vulgare, a plant devoid of fructans with internal glucosyl residues, also produced 6G,6-kestotetraose from sucrose and 6G-kestotriose. In the presence of recombinant L. perenne 6G-FFT, it produced 6G,6-kestotetraose from 1-kestotriose and sucrose, like L. perenne 6-SFT. Thus, we demonstrate that the two 6-SFTs have close catalytic properties and that the distinct fructans formed in L. perenne and H. vulgare can be explained by the presence of 6G-FFT activity in L. perenne and its absence in H. vulgare.
Rice CEBiP recognizes chitin oligosaccharides on the fungal cell surface or released into the plant apoplast, leading to the expression of plant disease resistance against fungal infection. However, it has not yet been reported whether CEBiP is actually required for restricting the growth of fungal pathogens. Here we evaluated the involvement of a putative chitin receptor gene in the basal resistance of barley to the ssd1 mutant of Magnaporthe oryzae, which induces multiple host defense responses. The mossd1 mutant showed attenuated pathogenicity on barley and appressorial penetration was restricted by the formation of callose papillae at attempted entry sites. When conidial suspensions of mossd1 mutant were spotted onto the leaves of HvCEBiP-silenced plants, small brown necrotic flecks or blast lesions were produced but these lesions did not expand beyond the inoculation site. Wild-type M. oryzae also produced slightly more severe symptoms on the leaves of HvCEBiP-silenced plants. Cytological observation revealed that these lesions resulted from appressorium-mediated penetration into plant epidermal cells. These results suggest that HvCEBiP is involved in basal resistance against appressorium-mediated infection and that basal resistance might be triggered by the recognition of chitin oligosaccharides derived from M. oryzae.
Photosynthesis is one of the key processes to be affected by water deficits, via decreased CO2 diffusion to the chloroplast and metabolic constraints. The relative impact of those limitations varies with the intensity of the stress, the occurrence (or not) of superimposed stresses, and the species we are dealing with. Total plant carbon uptake is further reduced due to the concomitant or even earlier inhibition of growth. Leaf carbohydrate status, altered directly by water deficits or indirectly (via decreased growth), acts as a metabolic signal although its role is not totally clear. Other relevant signals acting under water deficits comprise: abscisic acid (ABA), with an impact on stomatal aperture and the regulation at the transcription level of a large number of genes related to plant stress response; other hormones that act either concurrently (brassinosteroids, jasmonates, and salycilic acid) or antagonistically (auxin, cytokinin, or ethylene) with ABA; and redox control of the energy balance of photosynthetic cells deprived of CO2 by stomatal closure. In an attempt to systematize current knowledge on the complex network of interactions and regulation of photosynthesis in plants subjected to water deficits, a meta-analysis has been performed covering >450 papers published in the last 15 years. This analysis shows the interplay of sugars, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and hormones with photosynthetic responses to drought, involving many metabolic events. However, more significantly it highlights (i) how fragmented and often non-comparable the results are and (ii) how hard it is to relate molecular events to plant physiological status, namely photosynthetic activity, and to stress intensity. Indeed, the same data set usually does not integrate these different levels of analysis. Considering these limitations, it was hard to find a general trend, particularly concerning molecular responses to drought, with the exception of the genes ABI1 and ABI3. These genes, irrespective of the stress type (acute versus chronic) and intensity, show a similar response to water shortage in the two plant systems analysed (Arabidopsis and barley). Both are associated with ABA-mediated metabolic responses to stress and the regulation of stomatal aperture. Under drought, ABI1 transcription is up-regulated while ABI3 is usually down-regulated. Recently ABI3 has been hypothesized to be essential for successful drought recovery.
Because of its size, allohexaploid nature and high repeat content, the wheat genome has always been perceived as too complex for efficient molecular studies. We recently constructed the first physical map of a wheat chromosome (3B). However gene mapping is still laborious in wheat because of high redundancy between the three homoeologous genomes. In contrast, in the closely related diploid species, barley, numerous gene-based markers have been developed. This study aims at combining the unique genomic resources developed in wheat and barley to decipher the organisation of gene space on wheat chromosome 3B. Three dimensional pools of the minimal tiling path of wheat chromosome 3B physical map were hybridised to a barley Agilent 15K expression microarray. This led to the fine mapping of 738 barley orthologous genes on wheat chromosome 3B. In addition, comparative analyses revealed that 68% of the genes identified were syntenic between the wheat chromosome 3B and barley chromosome 3 H and 59% between wheat chromosome 3B and rice chromosome 1, together with some wheat-specific rearrangements. Finally, it indicated an increasing gradient of gene density from the centromere to the telomeres positively correlated with the number of genes clustered in islands on wheat chromosome 3B. Our study shows that novel structural genomics resources now available in wheat and barley can be combined efficiently to overcome specific problems of genetic anchoring of physical contigs in wheat and to perform high-resolution comparative analyses with rice for deciphering the organisation of the wheat gene space.
Eukaryotic organisms have developed diverse mechanisms for the acquisition of iron, which is required for their survival. Graminaceous plants use a chelation strategy. They secrete phytosiderophore compounds, which solubilize iron in the soil, and then take up the resulting iron-phytosiderophore complexes. Bacteria and mammals also secrete siderophores to acquire iron. Although phytosiderophore secretion is crucial for plant growth, its molecular mechanism remains unknown. Here, we show that the efflux of deoxymugineic acid, the primary phytosiderophore from rice and barley, involves the TOM1 and HvTOM1 genes, respectively. Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing TOM1 or HvTOM1 released (14)C-labeled deoxymugineic acid but not (14)C-labeled nicotianamine, a structural analog and biosynthetic precursor of deoxymugineic acid, indicating that the TOM1 and HvTOM1 proteins are the phytosiderophore efflux transporters. Under conditions of iron deficiency, rice and barley roots express high levels of TOM1 and HvTOM1, respectively, and the overexpression of these genes increased tolerance to iron deficiency. In rice roots, the efficiency of deoxymugineic acid secretion was enhanced by overexpression of TOM1 and decreased by its repression, providing further evidence that TOM1 encodes the efflux transporter of deoxymugineic acid. We have also identified two genes encoding efflux transporters of nicotianamine, ENA1 and ENA2. Our identification of phytosiderophore efflux transporters has revealed the final piece in the molecular machinery of iron acquisition in graminaceous plants.
The response to vernalization and the expression of genes associated with responses to vernalization (VRNH1, VRNH2, and VRNH3) and photoperiod (PPDH1 and PPDH2) were analysed in four barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) lines: 'Alexis' (spring), 'Plaisant' (winter), SBCC058, and SBCC106 (Spanish inbred lines), grown under conditions of vernalization and short days (VSD) or no vernalization and long days (NVLD). The four genotypes differ in VRNH1. Their growth habits and responses to vernalization correlated with the level of expression of VRNH1 and the length of intron 1. 'Alexis' and 'Plaisant' behaved as expected. SBCC058 and SBCC106 showed an intermediate growth habit and flowered relatively late in the absence of vernalization. VRNH1 expression was induced by cold for all genotypes. Under VSD, VRNH1 expression was detected in the SBCC genotypes later than in 'Alexis' but earlier than in 'Plaisant'. VRNH2 was repressed under short days while VRNH1 expression increased in parallel. VRNH3 was detected only in 'Alexis' under NVLD, whereas it was not expressed in plants with the active allele of VRNH2 (SBCC058 and 'Plaisant'). Under VSD, PPDH2 was expressed in 'Alexis', SBCC058, and SBCC106, but it was only expressed weakly in 'Alexis' under NVLD. Further analysis of PPDH2 expression in two barley doubled haploid populations revealed that, under long days, HvFT3 and VRNH2 expression levels were related inversely. The timing of VRNH2 expression under a long photoperiod suggests that this gene might be involved in repression of PPDH2 and, indirectly, in the regulation of flowering time through an interaction with the day-length pathway.
Plants employ two distinct strategies to obtain iron (Fe) from the soil. In Strategy I but not Strategy II plants, Fe limitation invokes ethylene production which regulates Fe deficiency responses. Oryza sativa (rice) is the only graminaceous plant described that possesses a Strategy I-like system for iron uptake as well as the classic Strategy II system. Ethylene production of rice roots was significantly increased when grown under Fe-depleted conditions. Moreover, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) treatment, a precursor of ethylene, conferred tolerance to Fe deficiency in rice by increasing internal Fe availability. Gene expression analysis of rice iron-regulated bHLH transcription factor OsIRO2, nicotianamine synthases 1 and 2 (NAS1 and NAS2), yellow-stripe like transporter 15 (YSL15) and iron-regulated transporter (IRT1) indicated that ethylene caused an increase in transcript abundance of both Fe (II) and Fe (III)-phytosiderophore uptake systems. RNA interference of OsIRO2 in transgenic rice showed that ethylene acted via this transcription factor to induce the expression of OsNAS1, OsNAS2, OsYSL15, and OsIRT1. By contrast, in Hordeum vulgare L. (barley), no ethylene production or ethylene-mediated effects of Fe response could be detected. In conclusion, Fe-limiting conditions increased ethylene production and signalling in rice, which is novel in Strategy II plant species.
RNA-RNA recombination salvages viral RNAs and contributes to their genomic variability. A recombinationally-active subgenomic promoter (sgp) has been mapped in Brome mosaic bromovirus (BMV) RNA3 (Wierzchoslawski et al., 2004. J. Virol.78, 8552-8864) and mRNA-like 5' sgRNA3a was characterized (Wierzchoslawski et al., 2006. J. Virol. 80, 12357-12366). In this paper we describe sgRNA3a-mediated recombination in both in vitro and in vivo experiments. BMV replicase-directed co-copying of (-) RNA3 with wt sgRNA3a generated RNA3 recombinants in vitro, but it failed to when 3'-truncated sgRNA3a was substituted, demonstrating a role for the 3' polyA tail. Barley protoplast co-transfections revealed that (i) wt sgRNA3a recombines at the 3' and the internal sites; (ii) 3'-truncated sgRNA3as recombine more upstream; and (iii) 5'-truncated sgRNA3 recombine at a low rate. In planta co-inoculations confirmed the RNA3-sgRNA3a crossovers. In summary, the non-replicating sgRNA3a recombines with replicating RNA3, most likely via primer extension and/or internal template switching.
At least two components that modulate plant resistance against the fungal powdery mildew disease are ancient and have been conserved since the time of the monocot-dicot split (≈ 200 Mya). These components are the seven transmembrane domain containing MLO/MLO2 protein and the syntaxin ROR2/PEN1, which act antagonistically and have been identified in the monocot barley (Hordeum vulgare) and the dicot Arabidopsis thaliana, respectively. Additionally, syntaxin-interacting N-ethylmaleimide sensitive factor adaptor protein receptor proteins (VAMP721/722 and SNAP33/34) as well as a myrosinase (PEN2) and an ABC transporter (PEN3) contribute to antifungal resistance in both barley and/or Arabidopsis. Here, we show that these genetically defined defense components share a similar set of coexpressed genes in the two plant species, comprising a statistically significant overrepresentation of gene products involved in regulation of transcription, posttranslational modification, and signaling. Most of the coexpressed Arabidopsis genes possess a common cis-regulatory element that may dictate their coordinated expression. We exploited gene coexpression to uncover numerous components in Arabidopsis involved in antifungal defense. Together, our data provide evidence for an evolutionarily conserved regulon composed of core components and clade/species-specific innovations that functions as a module in plant innate immunity.
Advanced cycle breeding utilizes crosses among elite lines and is a successful method to develop new inbreds. However, it results in a reduction in genetic diversity within the breeding population. The development of malting barley varieties requires the adherence to a narrow malting quality profile and thus the use of advanced cycle breeding strategies. Although attention has been focused on diversity in gene expression and its association with genetic diversity, there are no studies performed in a single breeding program examining the implications that consecutive cycles of breeding have on gene expression variation and identifying the variability still available for future improvement. Fifteen lines representing the historically important six-rowed malting barley breeding program of the University of Minnesota were genotyped with 1,524 SNPs, phenotypically examined for six malting quality traits, and analyzed for transcript accumulation during germination using the Barley1 GeneChip array. Significant correlation was detected between genetic and transcript-level variation. We observed a reduction in both genetic and gene expression diversity through the breeding process, although the expression of many genes have not been fixed. A high number of quality-related genes whose expression was fixed during the breeding process was identified, indicating that much of the diversity reduction was associated with the improvement of the complex phenotype "malting quality", the main goal of the University of Minnesota breeding program. We also identified 49 differentially expressed genes between the most recent lines of the program that were correlated with one or more of the six primary malting quality traits. These genes constitute potential targets for the improvement of malting quality within the breeding program. The present study shows the repercussion of advanced cycle breeding on gene expression diversity within an important barley breeding program. A reduction in gene expression diversity was detected, although there is diversity still present after forty years of breeding that can exploited for future crop improvement. In addition, the identification of candidate genes for enhancing malting quality may be used to optimize the selection of targets for further improvements in this economically important phenotype.
Transcriptome of barley Hordeum vulgare grown aboard International Space Station (ISS) was analyzed by means of microarray. It was revealed 500 genes with mRNA level, changed more than two folds in space environment. Among them are genes encoding stress response proteins, videlicet Heat Shock Proteins (HSP), Pathogenesis-Related Proteins (PR) and Antioxidant Proteins. Further analysis of these genes by real time PCR showed enhanced transcription level of Reactive oxygen Species (ROS) scavenging genes. The mRNA level of superoxide dismutase (sod) was 6 folds higher in space environment when compare to Earth conditions. Glutamyl transferase gene expression was enhanced 24 times in space. Transcription of catalase gene (cat) was increased 18 times and of ascorbate peroxidase was increased 3 times in space in comparison with ground control. For the first time it was shown that space flight environment may induce oxidative stress in plants.
Phytocystatins are inhibitors of cysteine-proteases from plants putatively involved in plant defence based on their capability of inhibit heterologous enzymes. We have previously characterised the whole cystatin gene family members from barley (HvCPI-1 to HvCPI-13). The aim of this study was to assess the effects of barley cystatins on two phytophagous spider mites, Tetranychus urticae and Brevipalpus chilensis. The determination of proteolytic activity profile in both mite species showed the presence of the cysteine-proteases, putative targets of cystatins, among other enzymatic activities. All barley cystatins, except HvCPI-1 and HvCPI-7, inhibited in vitro mite cathepsin L- and/or cathepsin B-like activities, HvCPI-6 being the strongest inhibitor for both mite species. Transgenic maize plants expressing HvCPI-6 protein were generated and the functional integrity of the cystatin transgene was confirmed by in vitro inhibitory effect observed against T. urticae and B. chilensis protein extracts. Feeding experiments impaired on transgenic lines performed with T. urticae impaired mite development and reproductive performance. Besides, a significant reduction of cathepsin L-like and/or cathepsin B-like activities was observed when the spider mite fed on maize plants expressing HvCPI-6 cystatin. These findings reveal the potential of barley cystatins as acaricide proteins to protect plants against two important mite pests.
Plant health and fitness widely depend on interactions with soil microorganisms. Some bacteria such as pseudomonads can inhibit pathogens by producing antibiotics, and controlling these bacteria could help improve plant fitness. In the present study, we tested whether plants induce changes in the antifungal activity of root-associated bacteria as a response to root pathogens. We grew barley plants in a split-root system with one side of the root system challenged by the pathogen Pythium ultimum and the other side inoculated with the biocontrol strain Pseudomonas fluorescens CHA0. We used reporter genes to follow the expression of ribosomal RNA indicative of the metabolic state and of the gene phlA, required for production of 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol, a key component of antifungal activity. Infection increased the expression of the antifungal gene phlA. No contact with the pathogen was required, indicating that barley influenced gene expression by the bacteria in a systemic way. This effect relied on increased exudation of diffusible molecules increasing phlA expression, suggesting that communication with rhizosphere bacteria is part of the pathogen response of plants. Tripartite interactions among plants, pathogens, and bacteria appear as a novel determinant of plant response to root pathogens.
The expression of NMT (3-aminomethylindole/N-methyl-3-aminomethylindole N-methyltransferase; EC 2.1.1.), involved in the biosynthesis of the indole alkaloid gramine, was investigated in aphid-infested barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). NMT is induced by methyl jasmonate and it was hypothesized that the gene would be more strongly upregulated in aphid-resistant barley. We examined the effects of feeding by three aphid species; Russian wheat aphid (Diuraphis noxia Mordvilko), rose-grain aphid (Metopolophium dirhodum Walker) and bird cherry-oat aphid (Rhopalosiphum padi L.) on barley genotypes with varying resistance characteristics. The barley genotypes selected included the cultivar Libra, known to upregulate gramine after feeding by Schizaphis graminum. Infestation by R. padi and M. dirhodum resulted in higher NMT expression in the doubled haploid line 5172-28:4 (DH28:4), which has moderate resistance against R. padi, but not in other aphid-barley combinations. None of the aphid-plant combinations had however increased gramine, suggesting that aphid-induction of gramine is specific to S. graminum. The increased abundance of NMT transcript in aphid-infested DH28:4 did not lead to higher amounts of NMT protein or NMT enzyme activity, neither did 200 times upregulation of NMT transcript in cotyledons incubated with methyl jasmonate, illustrating that even large differences measured at transcript level may have no metabolic consequences. Drought stress or treatments with abscisic acid did lead to higher gramine concentrations in several barley cultivars, but without any concomitant increase of NMT transcripts. Thus, the regulation of the biosynthetic pathway to gramine at transcript and metabolite level diverges during two different stress conditions.
The barley-Puccinia hordei (barley leaf rust) pathosystem is a model for investigating partial disease resistance in crop plants and genetic mapping of phenotypic resistance has identified several quantitative trait loci (QTL) for partial resistance. Reciprocal QTL-specific near-isogenic lines (QTL-NILs) have been developed that combine two QTL, Rphq2 and Rphq3, the largest effects detected in a recombinant-inbred-line (RIL) population derived from a cross between the super-susceptible line L94 and partially-resistant line Vada. The molecular mechanism underpinning partial resistance in these QTL-NILs is unknown. An Agilent custom microarray consisting of 15,000 probes derived from barley consensus EST sequences was used to investigate genome-wide and QTL-specific differential expression of genes 18 hours post-inoculation (hpi) with Puccinia hordei. A total of 1,410 genes were identified as being significantly differentially expressed across the genome, of which 55 were accounted for by the genetic differences defined by QTL-NILs at Rphq2 and Rphq3. These genes were predominantly located at the QTL regions and are, therefore, positional candidates. One gene, encoding the transcriptional repressor Ethylene-Responsive Element Binding Factor 4 (HvERF4) was located outside the QTL at 71 cM on chromosome 1H, within a previously detected eQTL hotspot for defence response. The results indicate that Rphq2 or Rphq3 contains a trans-eQTL that modulates expression of HvERF4. We speculate that HvERF4 functions as an intermediate that conveys the response signal from a gene(s) contained within Rphq2 or Rphq3 to a host of down-stream defense responsive genes. Our results also reveal that barley lines with extreme or intermediate partial resistance phenotypes exhibit a profound similarity in their spectrum of Ph-responsive genes and that hormone-related signalling pathways are actively involved in response to Puccinia hordei. Differential gene expression between QTL-NILs identifies genes predominantly located within the target region(s) providing both transcriptional and positional candidate genes for the QTL. Genetically mapping the differentially expressed genes relative to the QTL has the potential to discover trans-eQTL mediated regulatory relays initiated from genes within the QTL regions.
After fertilization, filial grain organs are surrounded by the maternal nucellus embedded within the integuments and pericarp. Rapid early endosperm growth must be coordinated with maternal tissue development. Parameters of maternal tissue growth and development were analysed during early endosperm formation. In the pericarp, cell proliferation is accomplished around the time of fertilization, followed by cell elongation predominantly in longitudinal directions. The rapid cell expansion coincides with endosperm cellularization. Distribution of TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labelling)-positive nuclei reveals distinct patterns starting in the nucellus at anthesis and followed later by the inner cell rows of the pericarp, then spreading to the whole pericarp. The pattern suggests timely and spatially regulated programmed cell death (PCD) processes in maternal seed tissues. When the endosperm is coenocytic, PCD events are only observed within the nucellus. Thereby, remobilization of nucellar storage compounds by PCD could nourish the early developing endosperm when functional interconnections are absent between maternal and filial seed organs. Specific proteases promote PCD events. Characterization of the barley vacuolar processing enzyme (VPE) gene family identified seven gene members specifically expressed in the developing grain. HvVPE2a (known as nucellain) together with closely similar HvVPE2b and HvVPE2d might be involved in nucellar PCD. HvVPE4 is strongly cell specific for pericarp parenchyma. Correlative evidence suggests that HvVPE4 plays a role in PCD events in the pericarp. Possible functions of PCD in the maternal tissues imply a potential nutritive role or the relief of a physical restraint for endosperm growth. PCD could also activate post-phloem transport functions.
Host cell vesicle traffic is essential for the interplay between plants and microbes. ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) GTPases are required for vesicle budding, and we studied the role of these enzymes to identify important vesicle transport pathways in the plant-powdery mildew interaction. A combination of transient-induced gene silencing and transient expression of inactive forms of ARF GTPases provided evidence that barley (Hordeum vulgare) ARFA1b/1c function is important for preinvasive penetration resistance against powdery mildew, manifested by formation of a cell wall apposition, named a papilla. Mutant studies indicated that the plasma membrane-localized REQUIRED FOR MLO-SPECIFIED RESISTANCE2 (ROR2) syntaxin, also important for penetration resistance, and ARFA1b/1c function in the same vesicle transport pathway. This was substantiated by a requirement of ARFA1b/1c for ROR2 accumulation in the papilla. ARFA1b/1c is localized to multivesicular bodies, providing a functional link between ROR2 and these organelles in penetration resistance. During Blumeria graminis f sp hordei penetration attempts, ARFA1b/1c-positive multivesicular bodies assemble near the penetration site hours prior to the earliest detection of callose in papillae. Moreover, we showed that ARFA1b/1c is required for callose deposition in papillae and that the papilla structure is established independently of ARFA1b/1c. This raises the possibility that callose is loaded into papillae via multivesicular bodies, rather than being synthesized directly into this cell wall apposition.
The overall research objective was to develop single cell plant cultures as a model system to facilitate functional genomics of monocots, in particular wheat and barley. The essential first step towards achieving the stated objective was the development of a robust, viable single cell suspension culture from both species. We established growth conditions to allow routine culturing of somatic cells in 24 well microtiter plate format. Evaluation of the wheat and barley cell suspension as model cell system is a multi step process. As an initial step in the evaluation procedure we chose to study the impact of selected abiotic stress elicitors at the physiological, biochemical and molecular level. We report the results of osmotic stress imposed by NaCl and PEG. As proline is an important osmoprotectant of the cereal cells, colorimetric assay for proline detection was developed for small volumes (200 μl). We performed RT-PCR experiments to study the change in the expression of the genes encoding Δ1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS) and Δ1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase (PC5R) in response to abiotic stress. We found differences between the wheat and barley suspension cultures, barley being more tolerant to the applied osmotic stresses. We suggested a model to explain the obtained differences in stress tolerance between the two species. The suspension cell cultures have proven useful for determining changes in proline concentration and expression level of genes (P5CS, P5CR) under various treatments and we suggest that the cells can be used as a model host system to study gene expression and regulation in monocots.
Auxin levels are well regulated in cells and tissues by both transport and local biosynthesis, and its distribution is important for the modulation of cell proliferation, differentiation, development, tropisms and high-temperature response. Activation of auxin biosynthesis with increased temperatures reported in certain plant tissues. In contrast, our studies indicated that male tissue-specific auxin reduction via transcriptional repression of the YUCCA auxin biosynthesis genes is the primary cause of high temperature injury, which leads the abortion of pollen development in Arabidopsis and barley Hordeum vulgare L. Furthermore, the abortion can be reversed by the application of exogenous auxin, suggesting that the application may maintain crop yields during the current global warming crisis.
Genes that enable crops to limit Na(+) accumulation in shoot tissues represent potential sources of salinity tolerance for breeding. In barley, the HvNax4 locus lowered shoot Na(+) content by between 12% and 59% (g(-1) DW), or not at all, depending on the growth conditions in hydroponics and a range of soil types, indicating a strong influence of environment on expression. HvNax4 was fine-mapped on the long arm of barley chromosome 1H. Corresponding intervals of ∼200 kb, containing a total of 34 predicted genes, were defined in the sequenced rice and Brachypodium genomes. HvCBL4, a close barley homologue of the SOS3 salinity tolerance gene of Arabidopsis, co-segregated with HvNax4. No difference in HvCBL4 mRNA expression was detected between the mapping parents. However, genomic and cDNA sequences of the HvCBL4 alleles were obtained, revealing a single Ala111Thr amino acid substitution difference in the encoded proteins. The known crystal structure of SOS3 was used as a template to obtain molecular models of the barley proteins, resulting in structures very similar to that of SOS3. The position in SOS3 corresponding to the barley substitution does not participate directly in Ca(2+) binding, post-translational modifications or interaction with the SOS2 signalling partner. However, Thr111 but not Ala111 forms a predicted hydrogen bond with a neighbouring α-helix, which has potential implications for the overall structure and function of the barley protein. HvCBL4 therefore represents a candidate for HvNax4 that warrants further investigation.
Most biological traits may be correlated with the underlying gene expression patterns that are partially determined by DNA sequence variation. The correlations between gene expressions and quantitative traits are essential for understanding the functions of genes and dissecting gene regulatory networks. In the present study, we adopted a novel statistical method, called the stochastic expectation and maximization (SEM) algorithm, to analyze the associations between gene expression levels and quantitative trait values and identify genetic loci controlling the gene expression variations. In the first step, gene expression levels measured from microarray experiments were assigned to two different clusters based on the strengths of their association with the phenotypes of a quantitative trait under investigation. In the second step, genes associated with the trait were mapped to genetic loci of the genome. Because gene expressions are quantitative, the genetic loci controlling the expression traits are called expression quantitative trait loci. We applied the same SEM algorithm to a real dataset collected from a barley genetic experiment with both quantitative traits and gene expression traits. For the first time, we identified genes associated with eight agronomy traits of barley. These genes were then mapped to seven chromosomes of the barley genome. The SEM algorithm and the result of the barley data analysis are useful to scientists in the areas of bioinformatics and plant breeding. The R program for the SEM algorithm can be downloaded from our website: http://www.statgen.ucr.edu.
Tibetan wild barley is rich in genetic diversity with potential allelic variation useful for salinity-tolerant improvement of the crop. The objectives of this study were to evaluate salinity tolerance and analysis of the allelic function of HvHKT1 and HvHKT2 in Tibetan wild barley. Salinity tolerance of 189 Tibetan wild barley accessions was evaluated in terms of reduced dry biomass under salinity stress. In addition, Na(+) and K(+) concentrations of 48 representative accessions differing in salinity tolerance were determined. Furthermore, the allelic and functional diversity of HvHKT1 and HvHKT2 was determined by association analysis as well as gene expression assay. There was a wide variation among wild barley genotypes in salt tolerance, with some accessions being higher in tolerance than cultivated barley CM 72, and salinity tolerance was significantly associated with K(+)/Na(+) ratio. Association analysis revealed that HvHKT1 and HvHKT2 mainly control Na(+) and K(+) transporting under salinity stress, respectively, which was validated by further analysis of gene expression. The present results indicated that Tibetan wild barley offers elite alleles of HvHKT1 and HvHKT2 conferring salinity tolerance.
Because of the high demand for iron of the photosynthetic apparatus in thylakoid membranes, iron deficiency primarily affects the electron transfer between the two photosystems (PSI and PSII), resulting in photooxidative damage in plants. However, in barley, PSII is protected against photoinhibition, and the plant survives even with a low iron content in its chlorotic leaves. In this study, we report an adaptation mechanism of the photosynthetic apparatus in barley to iron deficiency, which is concomitant with the remodeling of a PSII antenna system. Transcriptome analysis revealed that long-term iron deficiency induced the expression of two genes of the major light-harvesting Chl a/b-binding protein of PSII (LHCII), namely HvLhcb1.11 and HvLhcb1.12. Chl fluorescence analysis of the wild type and Lhcb1-less chlorina mutants clearly showed that non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) of the wild type was increased by approximately 200% by iron deficiency, whereas NPQ of chlorina mutants did not change significantly under iron deficiency. The mutant showed severe photodamage in young leaves under prolonged iron deficiency, suggesting that the HvLhcb1 protein is essential for both thermal dissipation and photoprotection in iron-deficient barley. Analysis of thylakoid protein complexes revealed that the proportion of the monomeric form of Lhcb1 significantly increased in barley grown under iron-deficient conditions. We hypothesize that alteration of the HvLhcb1 subpopulations modifies the organization of LHCII in the thylakoid membranes, which is a key step for thermal dissipation to compensate for excess excitation energy and thereby protect the photosystems from serious damage in iron-deficient barley leaves.
Comparative transcriptomics are useful to determine the role of orthologous genes among Triticeae species. Thus they constitute an interesting tool to improve the use of wild relatives for crop breeding. Reverse transcription quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) is the most accurate measure of gene expression but efficient normalization is required. The choice and optimal number of reference genes must be experimentally determined and the primers optimized for cross-species amplification. Our goal was to test the utility of wheat-reference genes for qPCR normalization when species carrying the following genomes (A, B, D, R, H ( v ) and H ( ch )) are compared either simultaneously or in smaller subsets of samples. Wheat/barley/rye consensus primers outperformed wheat-specific ones which indicate that consensus primers should be considered for data normalization in comparative transcriptomics. All genes tested were stable but their ranking in terms of stability differed among subsets of samples. CDC (cell division control protein, AAA-superfamily of ATPases, Ta54227) and RLI (68 kDa protein HP68 similar to Arabidopsis thaliana RNase L inhibitor protein, Ta2776) were always among the three most stable genes. The optimal number of reference genes varied between 2 and 3 depending on the subset of samples and the method used (geNorm vs. coefficient of determination between sequential normalization factors). In any case a maximum number of three reference genes would provide adequate normalization independent of the subset of samples considered. This work constitutes a substantial advance towards comparative transcriptomics using qPCR since it provides useful primers/reference genes.
Many plant species are susceptible to high-temperature (HT) injury during reproductive development. We recently demonstrated that HT represses the expression of YUCCA auxin biosynthesis genes and reduces endogenous auxin in the developing anthers of barley and Arabidopsis. Here, we show that DNA proliferation in mitochondria, chloroplasts and nuclei of developing panicles is inhibited with increasing temperatures in barley. Following DNA proliferation suppression, terminal abnormalities were observed in the organelles of anther wall cells, including mitochondrial swelling and overdevelopment of chloroplasts. Comprehensive transcriptome analyses using both reproductive organs and vegetative tissues showed high and positive pairwise correlations between the expression profiles of auxin-induced genes, DNA replication-related genes and mitochondrial-related genes. In contrast, the expression profiles of auxin-repressed protein genes and photosynthesis-/chloroplast-related genes were negatively correlated with those of the previously mentioned genes. Under HT conditions, the former was repressed and the latter was up-regulated in the developing panicles. Furthermore, application of exogenous auxin promoted the expression of DNA replication-related genes under HT conditions, inducing anther cell proliferation. These suggest that compromised auxin biosynthesis/IAA level under HT condition results in nuclear and organellar DNA proliferation arrest due to co-transcriptional alterations.
A proteomic analysis was conducted to map the events during the initial stages of the interaction between the fungal pathogen Fusarium graminearum and the susceptible barley cultivar Scarlett. Quantification of fungal DNA demonstrated a sharp increase in fungal biomass in barley spikelets at 3 days after inoculation. This coincided with the appearance of discrete F. graminearum-induced proteolytic fragments of β-amylase. Based on these results, analysis of grain proteome changes prior to extensive proteolysis enabled identification of barley proteins responding early to infection by the fungus. In total, the intensity of 51 protein spots was significantly changed in F. graminearum-infected spikelets and all but one were identified. These included pathogenesis-related proteins, proteins involved in energy metabolism, secondary metabolism and protein synthesis. A single fungal protein of unknown function was identified. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis of selected genes showed a correlation between high gene expression and detection of the corresponding proteins. Fungal genes encoding alkaline protease and endothiapepsin were expressed during 1-3 days after inoculation, making them candidates for generation of the observed β-amylase fragments. These fragments have potential to be developed as proteome-level markers for fungal infection that are also informative about grain protein quality.
High-temperature stress, like any abiotic stress, impairs the physiology and development of plants, including the stages of seed setting and ripening. We used the Affymetrix 22K Barley1 GeneChip microarray to investigate the response of developing barley (Hordeum vulgare) seeds, termed caryopses, after 0.5, 3, and 6 h of heat stress exposure; 958 induced and 1122 repressed genes exhibited spatial and temporal expression patterns that provide a detailed insight into the caryopses' early heat stress responses. Down-regulation of genes related to storage compound biosynthesis and cell growth provides evidence for a rapid impairment of the caryopsis' development. Increased levels of sugars and amino acids were indicative for both production of compatible solutes and feedback-induced accumulation of substrates for storage compound biosynthesis. Metadata analysis identified embryo and endosperm as primary locations of heat stress responses, indicating a strong impact of short-term heat stress on central developmental functions of the caryopsis. A comparison with heat stress responses in Arabidopsis shoots and drought stress responses in barley caryopses identified both conserved and presumably heat- and caryopsis-specific stress-responsive genes. Summarized, our data provide an important basis for further investigation of gene functions in order to aid an improved heat tolerance and reduced losses of yield in barley as a model for cereal crops.
In the barley (Hordeum vulgare) Hooded (Kap) mutant, the duplication of a 305-bp intron sequence leads to the overexpression of the Barley knox3 (Bkn3) gene, resulting in the development of an extra flower in the spikelet. We used a one-hybrid screen to identify four proteins that bind the intron-located regulatory element (Kap intron-binding proteins). Three of these, Barley Ethylene Response Factor1 (BERF1), Barley Ethylene Insensitive Like1 (BEIL1), and Barley Growth Regulating Factor1 (BGRF1), were characterized and their in vitro DNA-binding capacities verified. Given the homology of BERF1 and BEIL1 to ethylene signaling proteins, we investigated if these factors might play a dual role in intron-mediated regulation and ethylene response. In transgenic rice (Oryza sativa), constitutive expression of the corresponding genes produced phenotypic alterations consistent with perturbations in ethylene levels and variations in the expression of a key gene of ethylene biosynthesis. In barley, ethylene treatment results in partial suppression of the Kap phenotype, accompanied by up-regulation of BERF1 and BEIL1 expression, followed by down-regulation of Bkn3 mRNA levels. In rice protoplasts, BEIL1 activates the expression of a reporter gene driven by the 305-bp intron element, while BERF1 can counteract this activation. Thus, BEIL1 and BERF1, likely in association with other Kap intron-binding proteins, should mediate the fine-tuning of Bkn3 expression by ethylene. We propose a hypothesis for the cross talk between the KNOX and ethylene pathways.
Powdery mildew fungi are obligate biotrophic pathogens that only grow on living hosts and cause damage in thousands of plant species. Despite their agronomical importance, little direct functional evidence for genes of pathogenicity and virulence is currently available because mutagenesis and transformation protocols are lacking. Here, we show that the accumulation in barley (Hordeum vulgare) and wheat (Triticum aestivum) of double-stranded or antisense RNA targeting fungal transcripts affects the development of the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis. Proof of concept for host-induced gene silencing was obtained by silencing the effector gene Avra10, which resulted in reduced fungal development in the absence, but not in the presence, of the matching resistance gene Mla10. The fungus could be rescued from the silencing of Avra10 by the transient expression of a synthetic gene that was resistant to RNA interference (RNAi) due to silent point mutations. The results suggest traffic of RNA molecules from host plants into B. graminis and may lead to an RNAi-based crop protection strategy against fungal pathogens.
Fusarium head blight (FHB), primarily caused by Fusarium graminearum, reduces grain yield and quality in barley. Resistance to FHB is partial and quantitatively inherited. Previously, major FHB resistant QTL were detected on barley chromosome 2H Bin 8 and 2H Bin 10, and another QTL for reduced deoxynivalenol (DON) accumulation was identified on chromosome 3H Bin 6. To develop an understanding of the molecular responses controlled by these loci, we examined DON and fungal biomass levels and the transcriptome differences in near-isogenic line (NIL) pairs carrying contrasting resistant and susceptible alleles at these QTL during F. graminearum infection. No overlap was found among the differentially accumulated transcripts of the three NIL pairs, indicating that the response to infection controlled by the resistance alleles at each QTL may be distinct. Transcripts showing differential accumulation between resistant and susceptible NILs were compared to results from previous wheat/barley-F. graminearum studies and integrated into a wheat/barley-F. graminearum interaction model.
Grain development of the maternal effect shrunken endosperm mutant seg8 was analysed by comprehensive molecular, biochemical and histological methods. The most obvious finding was de-regulation of ABA levels, which were lower compared to wild-type during the pre-storage phase but higher during the transition from cell division/differentiation to accumulation of storage products. Ploidy levels and ABA amounts were inversely correlated in the developing endosperms of both mutant and wild-type, suggesting an influence of ABA on cell-cycle regulation. The low ABA levels found in seg8 grains between anthesis and beginning endosperm cellularization may result from a gene dosage effect in the syncytial endosperm that causes impaired transfer of ABA synthesized in vegetative tissues into filial grain parts. Increased ABA levels during the transition phase are accompanied by higher chlorophyll and carotenoid/xanthophyll contents. The data suggest a disturbed ABA-releasing biosynthetic pathway. This is indicated by up-regulation of expression of the geranylgeranyl reductase (GGR) gene, which may be induced by ABA deficiency during the pre-storage phase. Abnormal cellularization/differentiation of the developing seg8 endosperm and reduced accumulation of starch are phenotypic characteristics that reflect these disturbances. The present study did not reveal the primary gene defect causing the seg8 phenotype, but presents new insights into the maternal/filial relationships regulating barley endosperm development.
Ustilago hordei interactions on coleoptiles of barley host cultivars Odessa (compatible), Hannchen (incompatible, carrying the Ruh1 resistance gene), and on nonhost Neepawa wheat were studied using light and fluorescent microscopy. Autofluorescence, mainly caused by callose accumulation, was more rapidly expressed in nonhost wheat at 30 to 72 h compared with the incompatible reaction between 72 and 144 h. Microarray results demonstrated that more than half of the 893 differentially regulated genes were observed in Neepawa; of these genes, 45% fell into the defense- and stress-related classes in Neepawa compared with 25 and 37% in Odessa and Hannchen, respectively. Their expression coincided with the early morphological defense responses observed and were associated with the jasmonic acid and ethylene (JA/ET) signaling pathway. Expression patterns in Odessa and Hannchen were similar, involving fewer genes and coinciding with later morphological defense responses of these varieties. Although no visible hypersensitive response was apparent in Hannchen or Neepawa, specific upregulation of hypersensitivity-related proteins was observed, such as beta-VPE at 48 h. Expression levels of the callose synthase gene were closely associated with callose accumulation. Differential responses in defense-gene expression among disease reaction types included upregulation of PR-1.1b and downregulation of a nonspecific lipid transfer protein in the incompatible and compatible interactions, respectively. Transcript levels of EDS1 and PAD4, involved in both basal resistance and R-mediated resistance to avirulent pathogens, were up-regulated during both nonhost and Ruh1-mediated resistance. Application of methyl-jasmonate, salicylic acid and ET to leaves revealed that only PR1.1b is strongly up-regulated by all three compounds, while the majority of the defense-related genes are only slightly up-regulated by these signaling compounds.
Cell differentiation ultimately relies on the regulation of cell type-specific genes. For a root hair cell to undergo morphogenesis, diverse cellular processes including cell-wall loosening must occur in a root hair cell-specific manner. Previously, we identified and characterized root hairspecific cis-elements (RHE) from the genes encoding the cell wall-loosening protein EXPANSIN A (EXPA) which functions preferentially on dicot cell walls. This study reports two root hair-specific grass EXPB genes that contain RHEs. These genes are thought to encode proteins that function more efficiently on grass cell walls. The proximal promoter regions of two orthologous EXPB genes from rice (Oryza sativa; OsEXPB5) and barley (Hordeum vulgare; HvEXPB1) included RHE motifs. These promoters could direct root hair-specific expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in the roots of rice and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Promoter deletion analyses demonstrated that the RHE motifs are necessary for root hairspecific expression of these EXPB promoters. Phylogenetic analysis of EXP protein sequences indicated that grass EXPBs are the only orthologs to these root hair-specific EXPBs, separating dicot EXPBs to distal branches of the tree. These results suggest that RHE-containing root hair-specific EXPB genes have evolved for grass-specific cell wall modification during root hair morphogenesis.
Fusarium head blight or scab caused by Fusarium graminearum is an important disease of wheat and barley. The pathogen not only causes severe yield losses but also contaminates infested grains with mycotoxins. In a previous study, we identified several pathogenicity mutants by random insertional mutagenesis. One of these mutants was disrupted in the ZIF1 gene, which encodes a b-ZIP transcription factor unique to filamentous ascomycetes. The Δzif1 mutant generated by gene replacement was significantly reduced in deoxynivalenol (DON) production and virulence on flowering wheat heads. It was defective in spreading from inoculated florets to the rachis and other spikelets. Deletion of the ZIF1 ortholog MoZIF1 in the rice blast fungus also caused reductions in virulence and in invasive growth. In addition, the Δzif1 mutant is defective in sexual reproduction. Although it had normal male fertility, when selfed or mated as the female in outcrosess, the Δzif1 mutant produced small, pigmented perithecia that were sterile (lack of asci and ascospores), suggesting a female-specific role for ZIF1 during fertilization or ascus development. Similar female-specific defects in sexual reproduction were observed in the ΔMozif1 mutant. When mated as the female, the ΔMozif1 perithecia failed to develop long necks and asci or ascospores. The ZIF1 gene is well conserved in filamentous ascomycetes, particularly in the b-ZIP domain, which is essential for its function. Expression of ZIF1 in Magnaporthe oryzae complemented the defects of the ΔMozif1 mutant. These results indicate that this b-ZIP transcription factor is functionally conserved in these two fungal pathogens for plant infection and sexual reproduction.
A dramatic change in the life cycle of plants is the transition to flowering, which is triggered by both environmental signals, such as temperature and photoperiod, and endogenous stimuli. The dicotyledonous annual plant Arabidopsis thaliana is widely used as a model organism to study how these different signals are integrated into a developmental response. The existence of a diverse collection of Arabidopsis flowering time mutants is particularly useful to understand the genetics of flowering time control. This chapter gives an overview of flowering time analysis, including protocols to measure flowering time in Arabidopsis and wheat. For Arabidopsis, the experimental design necessary to assign flowering time mutants to a specific pathway is described.
Pathogen attack triggers a multifaceted defence response in plants that includes the accumulation of pathogenesis-related proteins and their corresponding transcripts. One of these transcripts encodes for WIR1, a small glycine- and proline-rich protein of unknown function that appears to be specific to grass species. Here we describe members of the HvWIR1 multigene family of barley with respect to phylogenetic relationship, transcript regulation, co-localization with quantitative trait loci for resistance to the barley powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis (DC.) E.O. Speer f.sp. hordei, the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms or gene haplotypes with resistance, as well as phenotypic effects of gene silencing by RNAi. HvWIR1 is encoded by a multigene family of moderate complexity that splits up into two major clades, one of those being also represented by previously described cDNA sequences from wheat. All analysed WIR1 transcripts accumulated in response to powdery mildew attack in leaves and all mapped WIR1 genes were associated with quantitative trait loci for resistance to B. graminis. Moreover, single nucleotide polymorphisms or haplotypes of WIR1 members were associated with quantitative resistance of barley to B. graminis, and transient WIR1 gene silencing affected the interaction of epidermal cells with the pathogen. The presented data provide convergent evidence for a role of the HvWIR1a gene and possibly other family members, during the interaction of barley with B. graminis.
Higher plants possess a large multigene family encoding secreted class III peroxidase (Prx) proteins. Peroxidases appear to be associated with plant disease resistance based on observations of induction during disease challenge and the presence or absence of isozymes in resistant vs susceptible varieties. Despite these associations, there is no evidence that allelic variation of peroxidases directly determines levels of disease resistance. The current study introduces a new strategy called Prx-Profiling. We showed that with this strategy a large number of peroxidase genes can be mapped on the barley genome. In order to obtain an estimate of the total number of Prx clusters we followed a re-sampling procedure, which indicated that the barley genome contains about 40 peroxidase gene clusters. We examined the association between the Prxs mapped and the QTLs for resistance of barley to homologous and heterologous rusts, and to the barley powdery mildew fungus. We report that 61% of the QTLs for partial resistance to P. hordei, 61% of the QTLs for resistance to B. graminis and 47% of the QTLs for non-host resistance to other Puccinia species co-localize with Prx based markers. We conclude that Prx-Profiling was effective in finding the genetic location of Prx genes on the barley genome. The finding that QTLs for basal resistance to rusts and powdery mildew fungi tend to co-locate with Prx clusters provides a base for exploring the functional role of Prx-related genes in determining natural differences in levels of basal resistance.
BAX INHIBITOR-1 (BI-1) is one of the few proteins known to have cross-kingdom conserved functions in negative control of programmed cell death. Additionally, barley BI-1 (HvBI-1) suppresses defense responses and basal resistance to the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei and enhances resistance to cell death-provoking fungi when overexpressed in barley. Downregulation of HvBI-1 by transient-induced gene silencing or virus-induced gene silencing limited susceptibility to B. graminis f. sp. hordei, suggesting that HvBI-1 is a susceptibility factor toward powdery mildew. Transient silencing of BI-1 did not limit supersusceptibility induced by overexpression of MLO. Transgenic barley plants harboring an HvBI-1 RNA interference (RNAi) construct displayed lower levels of HvBI-1 transcripts and were less susceptible to powdery mildew than wild-type plants. At the cellular level, HvBI-1 RNAi plants had enhanced resistance to penetration by B. graminis f. sp. hordei. These data support a function of BI-1 in modulating cell-wall-associated defense and in establishing full compatibility of B. graminis f. sp. hordei with barley.
Plant respiratory burst oxidase homologs are prominent sources of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in signal transduction and in interaction with microbes. However, the function of respiratory burst oxidase homologue (RBOH) genes in interaction with microbes might differ for certain plant and pathogen species. We produced transgenic barley knock down (KD) for the HvRBOHF2 isoform of NADPH oxidases. Young HvRBOHF2 KD shoots did not show obvious morphological alterations from the wild type but adult HvRBOHF2 KD plants developed fewer tillers, were less fertile, and showed spontaneous cell death in leaf mesophyll. Additionally, HvRBOHF2 KD plants were unable to contain wound-induced cell death. Before developmental failure became obvious, young HvRBOHF2 KD seedlings were much more susceptible to penetration by the biotrophic powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. Strikingly, the B. graminis f. sp. hordei-induced cell-wall-associated oxidative burst was not substantially attenuated in HvRBOHF2 KD plants but enhanced susceptibility apparently influenced the subcellular site of hydrogen peroxide accumulation. Taken together, misexpression of HvRBOHF2 caused failure of barley to normally develop penetration resistance to B. graminis f. sp. hordei and to control leaf cell death.
Storage tissues such as seed endosperm and tubers store starch in the form of granules in the amyloplast. In the rice (Oryza sativa) endosperm, each amyloplast produces compound granules consisting of several dozen polyhedral, sharp-edged and easily separable granules; whereas in other cereals, including wheat (Triticum aestivum), barley (Hordeum vulgare) and maize (Zea mays), each amyloplast synthesizes one granule. Despite extensive studies on mutants of starch synthesis in cereals, the molecular mechanisms involved in compound granule synthesis in rice have remained elusive. In this study, we expressed green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused to rice Brittle1 (BT1), an inner envelope membrane protein, to characterize dividing amyloplasts in the rice endosperm. Confocal microscopic analyses revealed that a septum-like structure, or cross-wall, containing BT1-GFP divides granules in the amyloplast. Plastid division proteins including FtsZ, Min and PDV2 play significant roles not only in amyloplast division, but also in septum synthesis, suggesting that amyloplast division and septum synthesis are related processes that share common factors. We propose that successive septum syntheses which create sections inside the amyloplast and de novo granule synthesis in each section are primarily responsible for the synthesis of compound granules.
We aim to identify conserved and dehydration responsive microRNAs (miRNAs) in Hordeum vulgare (barley). A total of 28 new barley miRNAs belonging to 18 distinct miRNA families were identified. Detailed nucleotide analyses revealed that barley pre-miRNAs are in the range of 46-114 nucleotides with average of 77.14. Using 28 newly detected miRNAs as queries, 445 potential target mRNAs were predicted. The predicted miRNAs were differentially expressed and some of them behaved similarly in leaf and root tissues upon stress treatment. Hvu-MIR156, Hvu-MIR166, Hvu-MIR171, and Hvu-MIR408 were detected as dehydration stress-responsive barley miRNAs. To discover target transcripts of barley miRNAs a modified 5' RLM-RACE was performed and seven cleaved miRNA transcripts were retrieved from drought stressed leaf samples. In silico analysis indicated 15 potential EST targets. Measurement of expression levels showed a positive correlation between levels of miRNA expression and suppression of their target mRNA transcripts in dehydration-stress-treated barley.
Stem rust threatens cereal production worldwide. Understanding the mechanism by which durable resistance genes, such as Rpg1, function is critical. We show that the RPG1 protein is phosphorylated within 5 min by exposure to spores from avirulent but not virulent races of stem rust. Transgenic mutants encoding an RPG1 protein with an in vitro inactive kinase domain fail to phosphorylate RPG1 in vivo and are susceptible to stem rust, demonstrating that phosphorylation is a prerequisite for disease resistance. Protein kinase inhibitors prevent RPG1 phosphorylation and result in susceptibility to stem rust, providing further evidence for the importance of phosphorylation in disease resistance. We conclude that phosphorylation of the RPG1 protein by the kinase activity of the pK2 domain induced by the interaction with an unknown pathogen spore product is required for resistance to the avirulent stem rust races. The pseudokinase pK1 domain is required for disease resistance but not phosphorylation. The very rapid phosphorylation of RPG1 suggests that an effector is already present in or on the stem rust urediniospores when they are placed on the leaf surface. However, spores must be alive, as determined by their ability to germinate, in order to elicit RPG1 phosphorylation.
*ToxA, a host-selective toxin of wheat, can be detected within ToxA-sensitive mesophyll cells, where it localizes to chloroplasts and induces necrosis. Interaction of ToxA with the chloroplast-localized protein ToxABP1 has been implicated in this process. Therefore, we hypothesized that silencing of ToxABP1 in wheat would lead to a necrotic phenotype. Also, because ToxABP1 is highly conserved in plants, internal expression of ToxA in plants that do not normally internalize ToxA should result in cell death. *Reduction of ToxABP1 expression was achieved using Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV)-mediated, viral-induced gene silencing. The BSMV system was modified for use as an internal expression vector for ToxA in monocots. Agrobacterium-mediated expression of ToxA in a dicot (tobacco-Nicotiana benthamiana) was also performed. *Viral-induced gene silencing of ToxABP1 partially recapitulates the phenotype of ToxA treatment and wheat plants with reduced ToxABP1 also have reduced sensitivity to ToxA. When ToxA is expressed in ToxA-insensitive wheat, barley (Hordeum vulgare) and tobacco, cell death ensues. *ToxA accumulation in any chloroplast-containing cell is likely to result in cell death. Our data indicate that the ToxA-ToxABP1 interaction alters ToxABP1 function. This interaction is a critical, although not exclusive, component of the ToxA-induced cell death cascade.
Transcription factors have been shown to control the activity of multiple stress response genes in a coordinated manner and therefore represent attractive targets for application in molecular plant breeding. We investigated the possibility of modulating the transcriptional regulation of drought and cold responses in the agriculturally important species, wheat and barley, with a view to increase drought and frost tolerance. Transgenic wheat and barley plants were generated showing constitutive (double 35S) and drought-inducible (maize Rab17) expression of the TaDREB2 and TaDREB3 transcription factors isolated from wheat grain. Transgenic populations with constitutive over-expression showed slower growth, delayed flowering and lower grain yields relative to the nontransgenic controls. However, both the TaDREB2 and TaDREB3 transgenic plants showed improved survival under severe drought conditions relative to nontransgenic controls. There were two components to the drought tolerance: real (activation of drought-stress-inducible genes) and 'seeming' (consumption of less water as a result of smaller size and/or slower growth of transgenics compared to controls). The undesired changes in plant development associated with the 'seeming' component of tolerance could be alleviated by using a drought-inducible promoter. In addition to drought tolerance, both TaDREB2 and TaDREB3 transgenic plants with constitutive over-expression of the transgene showed a significant improvement in frost tolerance. The increased expression of TaDREB2 and TaDREB3 lead to elevated expression in the transgenics of 10 other CBF/DREB genes and a large number of stress responsive LEA/COR/DHN genes known to be responsible for the protection of cell from damage and desiccation under stress.
Lunasin, a cancer-preventive peptide, was isolated from soybean, barley, and wheat. Previous studies showed that this 43-amino acid peptide has the ability to suppress chemical carcinogen-induced transformation in mammalian cells and skin carcinogenesis in mice. In this study, we attempted to use the Escherichia coli T7 expression system for expression of lunasin. The lunasin gene was synthesized by overlapping extension polymerase chain reaction and expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3) with the use of vector pET29a. The recombinant lunasin containing his-tag at the C-terminus was expressed in soluble form which could be purified by immobilized metal affinity chromatography. After 4 h, the expression level is above 4.73 mg of recombinant his-tagged lunasin/L of Luria-Bertani broth. It does not affect the bacterial growth and expression levels. This is the first study that successfully uses E. coli as a host to produce valuable bioactive lunasin. The result of in vitro bioassay showed that the purified recombinant lunasin can inhibit histone acetylation. Recombinant lunasin also inhibits the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, and nitric oxide production). Compared with other research methods on extraction or chemical synthesis to produce lunasin, our method is very efficient in saving time and cost. In the future, it could be applied in medicine and structure-function determination.
The gene expression and enzyme activity of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and ascorbate peroxidase in the space-grown barley were not significantly different from those of the ground-grown barley. Cu2+ reducing and radical scavenging activities in an extract of the space-grown barley were lower than those of the ground-grown barley by 0.7 fold, suggesting that the space environment does not induce oxidative stress, and reduces antioxidant capacity in plants.
The expression of a quantitative phenotype can be controlled through genotype, environment and genotype by environment interaction effects. Further, genotype effects can be attributed to major genes, quantitative trait loci (QTL) and gene by gene interactions, which are also termed epistatic interactions. The present study demonstrates that two-way epistatic interactions can play an important role for the expression of domestication-related traits like heading date, plant height and yield. In the BC(2)DH population S42, carrying wild barley introgressions in the genetic background of the spring barley cultivar Scarlett, 13, 8 and 12 marker by marker interaction effects could be detected for the traits heading date, plant height and yield, respectively. Significant allelic combinations at interacting loci coincided for heading date, plant height and yield suggesting the presence of pleiotropic effects rather than several linked QTL. The mode of epistasis observed was primarily characterised by either (1) compensatory effects, where allelic combinations from the same genotype buffered the phenotype, or (2) augmented effects, where only the combination of the exotic allele at both interacting loci caused an altered phenotype. The present study shows that estimates of main effects of QTL can be confounded by interactions with background loci, suggesting that the identification of epistatic effects is important for gene cloning and marker-assisted selection. Furthermore, interaction effects between loci and putative candidate genes detected in the present study reveal potential functional relationships, which can be used to further elucidate gene networks in barley.
NYB (Nanchong Yellow Barley) is a Chl-less barley mutant, which is controlled by a recessive nuclear gene. It is the only protochlorophyllide oxidoreductases (POR)-less barley mutant known in the world. The putative mechanism of the mutation and its Chl synthesis and plastid development are studied here. Neither PORC nor an additional copy of porB could be detected in barley. porB mRNAs are normally expressed and correctly spliced in the mutant. However, the import of PORA, PORB, LHCIIb1 (light harvesting complex II b1) and SSU (small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase) proteins to the plastid was greatly hampered in the mutant. We presume that a common translocon is mutated in NYB. The content of the supramolecular light-harvesting POR complex LHPP (light-harvesting NADPH:protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase:protochlorophyllide) and the density of prolamellar bodies in etioplasts are decreased in the mutant. However, no further oxidative damage could be observed for the de-etiolated mutant seedlings after a dark to light shift. Development of the plastid is arrested (less stacking) in NYB, and the mutant becomes more yellowish in high-light conditions, with dwarfing of seedlings and decreased yield. The physiological significance and developmental roles of POR proteins and LHPP in barley cells are discussed.
Polyphenol oxidases (PPOs) are copper-containing metalloenzymes encoded in the nucleus and transported into the plastids. Reportedly, PPOs cause time-dependent discoloration (browning) of end-products of wheat and barley, which impairs their appearance quality. For this study, two barley PPO homologues were amplified using PCR with a primer pair designed in the copper binding domains of the wheat PPO genes. The full-lengths of the respective PPO genes were cloned using a BAC library, inverse-PCR, and 3'-RACE. Linkage analysis showed that the polymorphisms in PPO1 and PPO2 co-segregated with the phenol reaction phenotype of awns. Subsequent RT-PCR experiments showed that PPO1 was expressed in hulls and awns, and that PPO2 was expressed in the caryopses. Allelic variation of PPO1 and PPO2 was analysed in 51 barley accessions with the negative phenol reaction of awns. In PPO1, amino acid substitutions of five types affecting functionally important motif(s) or C-terminal region(s) were identified in 40 of the 51 accessions tested. In PPO2, only one mutant allele with a precocious stop codon resulting from an 8 bp insertion in the first exon was found in three of the 51 accessions tested. These observations demonstrate that PPO1 is the major determinant controlling the phenol reaction of awns. Comparisons of PPO1 single mutants and the PPO1PPO2 double mutant indicate that PPO2 controls the phenol reaction in the crease on the ventral side of caryopses. An insertion of a hAT-family transposon in the promoter region of PPO2 may be responsible for different expression patterns of the duplicate PPO genes in barley.
Soil cadmium (Cd) contamination has posed a serious problem for safe food production and become a potential agricultural and environmental hazard worldwide. Greenhouse hydroponic experiments were conducted to investigate the modulation of exogenous GSH (reduced glutathione) in antioxidant defense system against the Cd-induced toxicity in plants exposed to 5 muM Cd using two barley genotypes differing in Cd tolerance. Addition of 20 mg L(-1) GSH in 5 muM Cd culture medium significantly alleviated Cd-induced growth inhibition, especially for the sensitive genotype Dong 17 and dramatically depressed O(2)(-), H(2)O(2) and malondialdehyde (MDA) accumulation. GSH mediated intracellular GSH content to keep the level over the control especially in the case of Cd-induced GSH reduction. External GSH counteracted Cd-induced alterations of certain antioxidant enzymes, e.g. brought root dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR), monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDHAR) and glutathione peroxidase (GPX) activities of the both genotypes down towards the control level, but elevated the depressed ascorbate peroxidase (APX) and catalase (CAT) activities in Dong 17 after 10-15 d treatment. The examination of APX and superoxide dismutase (SOD) isoenzymes revealed GSH significantly increased MnSOD, sAPX and tAPX activities in the both genotypes, and strongly stimulated Cd-induced decrease in cAPX in the sensitive genotype. Furthermore, External GSH up-regulated root cAPX and leaf cAPX, CAT1, and CAT2 expression at transcript level in Dong 17 to achieve stimulation. These data, especially from the results of depressed O(2)(-), H(2)O(2) and MDA accumulation and elevated Cd-induced decrease in GSH content and APX (strongly stimulated cAPX, sAPX and tAPX) and CAT activities by GSH addition in the sensitive genotype, suggest that elevated intracellular GSH and stimulated APX (especially cAPX, sAPX and tAPX iosenzymes) and CAT activities, when concerning ROS scavenging systems, play an important role in GSH-induced alleviation of oxidative stress.
Boron (B) toxicity is a significant limitation to cereal crop production in a number of regions worldwide. Here we describe the cloning of a gene from barley (Hordeum vulgare), underlying the chromosome 6H B toxicity tolerance quantitative trait locus. It is the second B toxicity tolerance gene identified in barley. Previously, we identified the gene Bot1 that functions as an efflux transporter in B toxicity-tolerant barley to move B out of the plant. The gene identified in this work encodes HvNIP2;1, an aquaporin from the nodulin-26-like intrinsic protein (NIP) subfamily that was recently described as a silicon influx transporter in barley and rice (Oryza sativa). Here we show that a rice mutant for this gene also shows reduced B accumulation in leaf blades compared to wild type and that the mutant protein alters growth of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) under high B. HvNIP2;1 facilitates significant transport of B when expressed in Xenopus oocytes compared to controls and to another NIP (NOD26), and also in yeast plasma membranes that appear to have relatively high B permeability. We propose that tolerance to high soil B is mediated by reduced expression of HvNIP2;1 to limit B uptake, as well as by increased expression of Bot1 to remove B from roots and sensitive tissues. Together with Bot1, the multifunctional aquaporin HvNIP2;1 is an important determinant of B toxicity tolerance in barley.
In winter wheat (Triticum spp.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) varieties, long exposures to nonfreezing cold temperatures accelerate flowering time (vernalization) and improve freezing tolerance (cold acclimation). However, when plants initiate their reproductive development, freezing tolerance decreases, suggesting a connection between the two processes. To better understand this connection, we used two diploid wheat (Triticum monococcum) mutants, maintained vegetative phase (mvp), that carry deletions encompassing VRN-1, the major vernalization gene in temperate cereals. Homozygous mvp/mvp plants never flower, whereas plants carrying at least one functional VRN-1 copy (Mvp/-) exhibit normal flowering and high transcript levels of VRN-1 under long days. The Mvp/- plants showed reduced freezing tolerance and reduced transcript levels of several cold-induced C-REPEAT BINDING FACTOR transcription factors and COLD REGULATED genes (COR) relative to the mvp/mvp plants. Diploid wheat accessions with mutations in the VRN-1 promoter, resulting in high transcript levels under both long and short days, showed a significant down-regulation of COR14b under long days but not under short days. Taken together, these studies suggest that VRN-1 is required for the initiation of the regulatory cascade that down-regulates the cold acclimation pathway but that additional genes regulated by long days are required for the down-regulation of the COR genes. In addition, our results show that allelic variation in VRN-1 is sufficient to determine differences in freezing tolerance, suggesting that quantitative trait loci for freezing tolerance previously mapped on this chromosome region are likely a pleiotropic effect of VRN-1 rather than the effect of a separate closely linked locus (FROST RESISTANCE-1), as proposed in early freezing tolerance studies.
The Russian wheat aphid, Diruaphis noxia (Kurdjumov) (Hemiptera: Aphididae), is globally one of the most devastating pests of bread wheat, Tritium aestivum L.; durum wheat, Triticum turgidum L.; and barley, Hordeum vulgare L. Host plant resistance is the foundation for cereal insect pest management programs, and several sources of D. noxia resistance have been incorporated in cultivars to manage D. noxia damage. The emergence of D. noxia North American biotype 2 (RWA2) in Colorado has made all known Dn genes vulnerable except the Dn7 gene from rye, Secale cereale, and has warranted exploration for sources of resistance to both RWA1 and RWA2. The category of resistance in resistant donor plants may exert selection pressure over the aphid population to form a new virulent population. In the current study, we report tolerance and antibiosis resistance to RWA1 and RWA2 in the barley genotype 'Stoneham'. The rate and degree of expression of resistance in Stoneham against RWA1 and RWA2, although not similar, are greater than the partial resistance in 'Sidney'. Antixenosis resistance to RWA1 or RWA2 was not observed in Sidney or Stoneham. The tolerance identified in Stoneham is encouraging because it may delay D. noxia biotype selection and fits well in a dryland barley cropping system.
Cloning of gene casettes and other DNA sequences into the conventional vectors for biolistic or Agrobacterium-mediated transformation is hampered by a limited amount of unique restriction sites and by the difficulties often encountered when ligating small single strand DNA overhangs. These problems are obviated by "The Uracil Specific Excision Reagent (USER)" technology (New England Biolabs) which thus offers a new and very time-efficient method for engineering of big and complex plasmids. By application of the USER system, we engineered a collection of binary vectors, termed UCE (USER cereal), ready for use in cloning of complex constructs into the T-DNA. A series of the vectors were tested and shown to perform successfully in Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) as well as in biolistic transformation of endosperm cells conferring transient expression. The USER technology is very well suited for generating a toolbox of vectors for transformation and it opens an opportunity to engineer complex vectors, where several genetic elements of different origin are combined in a single cloning reaction.
The barley (Hordeum vulgare) brittle stem mutants, fs2, designated X054 and M245, have reduced levels of crystalline cellulose compared with their parental lines Ohichi and Shiroseto. A custom-designed microarray, based on long oligonucleotide technology and including genes involved in cell wall metabolism, revealed that transcript levels of very few genes were altered in the elongation zone of stem internodes, but these included a marked decrease in mRNA for the HvCesA4 cellulose synthase gene of both mutants. In contrast, the abundance of several hundred transcripts changed in the upper, maturation zones of stem internodes, which presumably reflected pleiotropic responses to a weakened cell wall that resulted from the primary genetic lesion. Sequencing of the HvCesA4 genes revealed the presence of a 964-bp solo long terminal repeat of a Copia-like retroelement in the first intron of the HvCesA4 genes of both mutant lines. The retroelement appears to interfere with transcription of the HvCesA4 gene or with processing of the mRNA, and this is likely to account for the lower crystalline cellulose content and lower stem strength of the mutants. The HvCesA4 gene maps to a position on chromosome 1H of barley that coincides with the previously reported position of fs2.
Strains of non-pathogenic pseudomonad bacteria, can elicit host defence responses against pathogenic microorganisms. Pseudomonas fluorescens strain MKB158 can protect cereals from pathogenesis by Fusarium fungi, including Fusarium head blight which is an economically important disease due to its association with both yield loss and mycotoxin contamination of grain. Using the 22 K barley Affymetrix chip, trancriptome studies were undertaken to determine the local effect of P. fluorescens strain MKB158 on the transcriptome of barley head tissue, and to discriminate transcripts primed by the bacterium to respond to challenge by Fusarium culmorum, a causal agent of the economically important Fusarium head blight disease of cereals. The bacterium significantly affected the accumulation of 1203 transcripts and primed 74 to positively, and 14 to negatively, respond to the pathogen (P = 0.05). This is the first study to give insights into bacterium priming in the Triticeae tribe of grasses and associated transcripts were classified into 13 functional classes, associated with diverse functions, including detoxification, cell wall biosynthesis and the amplification of host defence responses. In silico analysis of Arabidopsis homologs of bacterium-primed barley genes indicated that, as is the case in dicots, jasmonic acid plays a role in pseudomonad priming of host responses. Additionally, the transcriptome studies described herein also reveal new insights into bacterium-mediated priming of host defences against necrotrophs, including the positive effects on grain filling, lignin deposition, oxidative stress responses, and the inhibition of protease inhibitors and proteins that play a key role in programmed cell death.
Timing of various developmental stages including anthesis and whole-plant ('monocarpic') senescence influences yield and quality of annual crops. While a correlation between flowering/seed filling and whole-plant senescence has been observed in many annuals, it is unclear how the gene networks controlling these processes interact. Using near-isogenic germplasm, it has previously been demonstrated that a grain protein content (GPC) locus on barley chromosome 6 strongly influences the timing of post-anthesis flag leaf senescence, with high-GPC germplasm senescing early. Here, it is shown that the presence of high-GPC allele(s) at this locus also accelerates pre-anthesis plant development. While floral transition at the shoot apical meristem (SAM; determined by the presence of double ridges) occurred simultaneously, subsequent development was faster in the high- than in the low-GPC line, and anthesis occurred on average 5 d earlier. Similarly, sequential (pre-anthesis) leaf senescence was slightly accelerated, but only after differences in SAM development became visible. Leaf expression levels of four candidate genes (from a list of genes differentially regulated in post-anthesis flag leaves) were much higher in the high-GPC line even before faster development of the SAM became visible. One of these genes may be a functional homologue of Arabidopsis glycine-rich RNA-binding protein 7, which has previously been implicated in the promotion of flowering. Together, the data establish that the GPC locus influences pre- and post-anthesis barley development and senescence, and set the stage for a more detailed analysis of the interactions between the molecular networks controlling these important life history traits.
The universal stress proteins (USPs) play an important role in enhancing survival rate during prolonged exposure to heat shock, nutrient starvation, or stressors from agents that arrest cell growth or damage DNA structures. Searching the HarvEST database of barley resulted in 25 putative USP cDNA sequences. Of these, 16 could translate into intact proteins (putative USPs). The alignments of multiple amino acid sequences between the putative barley USPs with those of Arabidopsis and Methanococcus jannaschii resulted in a set of common residues involved in ATP-binding. The 16 putative USPs in barley and the 21 in Arabidopsis were clustered into seven groups, which were distinct from those of E. coli. The genes in these different groups have different intron/exon structures. Nine putative USP genes of barley were cloned successfully based on their sequence characteristics, and they contain two or three introns each. Two of these introns were present in all the genes, one located between beta2 and alpha2, and the other between beta 4 and alpha 4. Five sets of primers were successfully developed for these putative USP genes. Two of them were mapped on chromosome 1H and the other three were located on three different chromosomes, 2H, 3H and 6H, respectively. Expression analyses were carried out for nine of these putative USP genes. The expression for two of them was undetectable within 27 h following exposure to salt stress. Six of the other seven were expressed in both root and leaf, and the remaining one was expressed in root only. The majority of these genes was expressed more in the salt-sensitive variety, Morex, than in the more tolerant variety, Steptoe.
Resistance to the virulence factor deoxynivalenol (DON) due to formation of DON-3-O-glucoside (D3G) is considered to be an important component of resistance against Fusarium spp. which produce this toxin. Multiple candidate UDP-glycosyltransferase (UGT) genes from different crop plants that are either induced by Fusarium spp. or differentially expressed in cultivars varying in Fusarium disease resistance have been described. However, UGT are encoded by a very large gene family in plants. The study of candidate plant UGT is highly warranted because of the potential relevance for developing Fusarium-spp.-resistant crops. We tested Arabidopsis thaliana genes closely related to a previously identified DON-glucosyltransferase gene by heterologous expression in yeast and showed that gene products with very high sequence similarity can have pronounced differences in detoxification capabilities. We also tested four candidate barley glucosyltransferases, which are highly DON inducible. Upon heterologous expression of full-length cDNAs, only one gene, HvUGT13248, conferred DON resistance. The conjugate D3G accumulated in the supernatant of DON-treated yeast transformants. We also present evidence that the product of the TaUGT3 gene recently proposed to encode a DON-detoxification enzyme of wheat does not protect yeast against DON.
Trichothecenes are a major group of toxins produced by phytopathogenic fungi, including Fusarium graminearum. Trichothecenes inhibit protein synthesis in eukaryotic cells and are toxicologically relevant mycotoxins for humans and animals. Because they promote plant disease, the role of host responses to trichothecene accumulation is considered to be an important aspect of plant defense and resistance to fungal infection. Our overall objective was to examine the barley response to application of the type B trichothecene deoxynivalenol (DON). We found that DON is diluted by movement from the application site to acropetal and basipetal florets. A susceptible barley genotype converted DON to DON-3-O-glucoside, indicating that UDP-glucosyltransferases capable of detoxifying DON must exist in barley. RNA profiling of DON-treated barley spikes revealed strong upregulation of gene transcripts encoding ABC transporters, UDP-glucosyltransferases, cytochrome P450s, and glutathione-S-transferases. We noted that transcripts encoding cysteine synthases were dramatically induced by DON, and that toxin-sensitive yeast on glutathione- or cysteine-supplemented media or carrying a gene that encodes a cysteine biosynthetic enzyme exhibit DON resistance, suggesting that preventing glutathione depletion by increasing cysteine supply could play a role in ameliorating the impact of DON. Evidence for nonenzymatic formation of DON-glutathione adducts in vitro was found using both liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance analysis, indicating that the formation of DON-glutathione conjugates in vivo may reduce the impact of trichothecenes. Our results indicate that barley exhibits multiple defense mechanisms against trichothecenes.
Aluminium (Al) toxicity is a major agricultural constraint for crop cultivation on acid soils, which comprise a large portion of the world's arable land. One of the most widely accepted mechanisms of Al tolerance in plants is based on Al-activated organic acid release into the rhizosphere, with organic acids forming stable, non-toxic complexes with Al. This mechanism has recently been validated by the isolation of bona-fide Al-tolerance genes in crop species, which encode membrane transporters that mediate Al-activated organic acid release leading to Al exclusion from root apices. In crop species such as sorghum and barley, members in the multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) family underlie Al tolerance by a mechanism based on Al-activated citrate release. The study of Al tolerance in plants as conferred by MATE family members is in its infancy. Therefore, much is yet to be discovered about the functional diversity and evolutionary dynamics that led MATE proteins to acquire transport properties conducive to Al tolerance in plants. In this paper we review the major characteristics of transporters in the MATE family and will relate this knowledge to Al tolerance in plants. The MATE family is clearly extremely flexible with respect to substrate specificity, which raises the possibility that Al tolerance as encoded by MATE proteins may not be restricted to Al-activated citrate release in plant species. There are also indications that regulatory loci may be of pivotal importance to fully explore the potential for Al-tolerance improvement based on MATE genes.
Cell walls in commercially important cereals and grasses are characterized by the presence of (1,3;1,4)-β-d-glucans. These polysaccharides are beneficial constituents of human diets, where they can reduce the risk of hypercholesterolemia, type II diabetes, obesity and colorectal cancer. The biosynthesis of cell wall (1,3;1,4)-β-d-glucans in the Poaceae is mediated, in part at least, by the cellulose synthase-like CslF family of genes. Over-expression of the barley CslF6 gene under the control of an endosperm-specific oat globulin promoter results in increases of more than 80% in (1,3;1,4)-β-d-glucan content in grain of transgenic barley. Analyses of (1,3;1,4)-β-d-glucan fine structure indicate that individual CslF enzymes might direct the synthesis of (1,3;1,4)-β-d-glucans with different structures. When expression of the CslF6 transgene is driven by the Pro35S promoter, the transgenic lines have up to sixfold higher levels of (1,3;1,4)-β-d-glucan in leaves, but similar levels as controls in the grain. Some transgenic lines of Pro35S:CslF4 also show increased levels of (1,3;1,4)-β-d-glucans in grain, but not in leaves. Thus, the effects of CslF genes on (1,3;1,4)-β-d-glucan levels are dependent not only on the promoter used, but also on the specific member of the CslF gene family that is inserted into the transgenic barley lines. Altering (1,3;1,4)-β-d-glucan levels in grain and vegetative tissues will have potential applications in human health, where (1,3;1,4)-β-d-glucans contribute to dietary fibre, and in tailoring the composition of biomass cell walls for the production of bioethanol from cereal crop residues and grasses.
The nucleic acid binding protein Whirly1 of barley has been located to both chloroplasts and the nucleus of the same cell. Immunogold labelling furthermore showed that in vivo Whirly1 does not strictly co-localize with DNA in chloroplasts, while it is closely associated with DNA in the nucleus. High-resolution imaging of Whirly1-GFP and PEND-RFP fusion proteins revealed that only a minor part of Whirly1 co-localizes with nucleoids. The co-localization with nucleoids is in accordance with the detection of Whirly1 in a conventionally prepared fraction of the transcriptionally active chromosome (TAC). By further purification and enrichment of transcriptional activity Whirly1, however, was lost from the TAC fraction. Knockdown of Whirly1 in transgenic barley plants had neither impact on transcription of selected protein coding genes nor on genes coding for ribosomal RNAs or tRNAs. The results of RIP-chip experiments showed that barley Whirly1 as its maize orthologue associates with a set of intron containing plastid RNAs. Taken together, the results suggest that plastid-located Whirly1 functions primarily in RNA metabolism rather than as a DNA binding protein.
Seeds are complex structures composed of several maternal and filial tissues which undergo rapid changes during development. In this review, the barley grain is taken as a cereal seed model. Following a brief description of the developing grain, recent progress in grain development modeling is described. 3-D/4-D models based on histological sections or nondestructive NMR measurements can be used to integrate a variety of datasets. Extensive transcriptome data are taken as a frame to augment our understanding of various molecular-physiological processes. Discussed are maternal influences on grain development and the role of different tissues (pericarp, nucellus, nucellar projection, endosperm, endosperm transfer cells). Programmed cell death (PCD) is taken to pinpoint tissue specificities and the importance of remobilization processes for grain development. Transcriptome data have also been used to derive transcriptional networks underlying differentiation and maturation in endosperm and embryo. They suggest that the "maturation hormone" ABA is important also in early grain development. Massive storage product synthesis during maturation is dependent on sufficient energy, which can only be provided by specific metabolic adaptations due to severe oxygen deficiencies within the seed. To integrate the great variety of data from different research areas in complex, predictive computational modeling as part of a systems biology approach is an important challenge of the future. First attempts of modeling barley grain metabolism are summarized.
Senescence is the highly regulated last developmental phase of plant organs and tissues, and is optimized to allow nutrient remobilization to surviving plant parts, such as seeds of annual crops. High leaf carbohydrate to nitrogen (C : N) ratios have been implicated in the induction or acceleration of the senescence process. *A combination of phloem interruption in mature leaves (by steam-girdling, leading to carbohydrate accumulation from photosynthesis) and varied nitrate supply was used to analyse correlations between metabolite levels, leaf senescence parameters and induction of protease genes and proteolytic activities. *Its strong induction under conditions characterized by high C : N ratios, negative correlation of its transcript levels with chlorophylls and nitrates, its strong induction during developmental leaf senescence and its predicted localization to a lytic vacuolar compartment indicate that, among the genes tested, a family C1A cysteine protease is most likely to participate in bulk protein degradation during barley leaf senescence. *While all the genes analysed were selected based on upregulation during leaf senescence in a previous transcriptomic study, a considerably more detailed picture of protease gene regulation emerged from the data presented here, underlining the usefulness of this experimental approach for further (functional) protease characterization.
Barley yellow mosaic virus (BaYMV), the type species of the genus Bymovirus in the family Potyviridae in the picornavirus-like superfamily, causes a yellow mosaic disease of winter barley with significant yield losses in Europe and East Asia. Until now, infectious in vitro transcripts for the bipartite plus-sense RNA genome of any bymovirus species have not been available, rendering molecular analyses of bymovirus pathogenicity and the host resistance mechanisms difficult. In this study, we constructed the first cDNA clones of BaYMV RNA1 and RNA2, from which infectious RNA can be transcribed in vitro. Using in vitro transcripts, we showed that RNA1, which encodes eight proteins, including a viral proteinase NIa-Pro, the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase NIb, genome-linked viral protein VPg and the capsid protein CP, replicated autonomously in barley mesophyll protoplasts in the absence of RNA2 optimally at 15 degrees C, a temperature similar to the optimum for causing disease in barley fields. For systemic infection of barley plants, RNA1 alone was not sufficient and RNA2 was also required. Of the two proteins encoded on RNA2 (P1 with cysteine proteinase activity and P2 with unknown functions), P1 was essential and P2 was dispensable for systemic infectivity. The expression of both P1 and P2, but not the precursor polyprotein, together with RNA1 increased systemic infection and caused mosaic leaf symptoms. The infectious cDNA clones of BaYMV will be vital for future studies of bymovirus-host-vector interactions at the molecular level.
Cell walls in the grasses contain relatively high levels of heteroxylans and, in particular, arabinoxylans. Enzymes and corresponding genes that are involved in the provision of sugar nucleotide substrates represent potential control points for arabinoxylan biosynthesis. Following expressed sequence tag database analyses, three genes encoding barley (Hordeum vulgare) UDP-d-xylose 4-epimerases (UXE; EC 5.1.3.5), designated HvUXE1, HvUXE2, and HvUXE3, were cloned and their positions on genetic maps defined. To confirm the identity of the genes, a cDNA construct encoding HvUXE1 was expressed in Pichia pastoris. The purified, recombinant HvUXE1 catalyzed the freely reversible interconversion of UDP-alpha-d-xylopyranose and UDP-beta-l-arabinopyranose, with K(m) values of 1.8 and 1.4 mm, respectively. At equilibrium, the ratio of substrate to product was approximately 1:1. Each molecule of heterologously expressed HvUXE1 enzyme contained about one molecule of noncovalently bound NAD(+). Molecular modeling provided a structural rationale for the substrate specificity of the UDP-d-xylose 4-epimerase and, in particular, explained its tight specificity for UDP-xylose compared with other sugar nucleotide epimerases. Quantitative transcript analyses performed for each of the three genes in a range of organs showed, inter alia, that in developing barley endosperm HvUXE1 and HvUXE3 mRNA levels peaked at a time when UDP-alpha-d-xylopyranose synthase (UXS) transcripts also reached a maximum and when arabinoxylan biosynthesis was initiated. Furthermore, the data revealed that the transcription of HvUXE and HvUXS gene family members is coordinated with the incorporation of pentose sugars onto cell walls in barley leaves, roots, and developing endosperm.
In temperate cereals, such as wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare), the transition to reproductive development can be accelerated by prolonged exposure to cold (vernalization). We examined the role of the grass-specific MADS box gene ODDSOC2 (OS2) in the vernalization response in cereals. The barley OS2 gene (HvOS2) is expressed in leaves and shoot apices but is repressed by vernalization. Vernalization represses OS2 independently of VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1) in a VRN1 deletion mutant of einkorn wheat (Triticum monococcum), but VRN1 is required to maintain down-regulation of OS2 in vernalized plants. Furthermore, barleys that carry active alleles of the VRN1 gene (HvVRN1) have reduced expression of HvOS2, suggesting that HvVRN1 down-regulates HvOS2 during development. Overexpression of HvOS2 delayed flowering and reduced spike, stem, and leaf length in transgenic barley plants. Plants overexpressing HvOS2 showed reduced expression of barley homologs of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) gene FLOWERING PROMOTING FACTOR1 (FPF1) and increased expression of RNase-S-like genes. FPF1 promotes floral development and enhances cell elongation, so down-regulation of FPF1-like genes might explain the phenotypes of HvOS2 overexpression lines. We present an extended model of the genetic pathways controlling vernalization-induced flowering in cereals, which describes the regulatory relationships between VRN1, OS2, and FPF1-like genes. Overall, these findings highlight differences and similarities between the vernalization responses of temperate cereals and the model plant Arabidopsis.
With global warming, plant high temperature injury is becoming an increasingly serious problem. In wheat, barley, and various other commercially important crops, the early phase of anther development is especially susceptible to high temperatures. Activation of auxin biosynthesis with increased temperatures has been reported in certain plant tissues. In contrast, we here found that under high temperature conditions, endogenous auxin levels specifically decreased in the developing anthers of barley and Arabidopsis. In addition, expression of the YUCCA auxin biosynthesis genes was repressed by increasing temperatures. Application of auxin completely reversed male sterility in both plant species. These findings suggest that tissue-specific auxin reduction is the primary cause of high temperature injury, which leads to the abortion of pollen development. Thus, the application of auxin may help sustain steady yields of crops despite future climate change.
The degradation of 1,3:1,4-beta-glucan by glucanases is believed to be critical for auxin-induced elongation in Gramineae coleoptile. In the present study, we reinvestigated the relationship between auxin-induced elongation and gene expression of glucanases upon treatment of coleoptile segments with sugars. Gene expression of exo-beta-1,3:1,4-glucanase ExoII was not affected by treatment with IAA and/or sucrose. In contrast, levels of endo-beta-1,3:1,4-glucanase EI transcripts increased in response to IAA treatment, which was negated by the addition of glucose or sucrose, although the addition of sucrose or glucose did not suppress IAA-induced elongation. Sugar composition analysis of the hemicellulosic fraction revealed that the addition of glucose suppressed the IAA-induced reduction of beta-glucan. In the coleoptile segments that were starved by pre-incubation in water, the IAA-induced accumulation of EI mRNA was accelerated, as compared with the non-starved segments, which suggests that the level of carbon source in the cytoplasm regulates EI expression. Moreover, in the basal region of coleoptiles, where IAA treatment does not induce elongation growth, high levels of EI transcripts were observed in the presence and absence of IAA treatment. These results strongly demonstrated that the expressions of exo- and endo-beta-glucanase genes are not directly involved in the IAA-induced loosening of cell walls associated with elongation and also suggests that cell walls may degrade 1,3:1,4-beta-glucan to provide glucose as an energy source for cell elongation.
Epigenetic phenomena have been associated with the regulation of active and silent chromatin states achieved by modifications of chromatin structure through DNA methylation, and histone post-translational modifications. The latter is accomplished, in part, through the action of PcG (Polycomb group) protein complexes which methylate nucleosomal histone tails at specific sites, ultimately leading to chromatin compaction and gene silencing. Different PcG complex variants operating during different developmental stages have been described in plants. In particular, the so-called FIE/MEA/FIS2 complex governs the expression of genes important in embryo and endosperm development in Arabidopsis. In our effort to understand the epigenetic mechanisms regulating seed development in barley (Hordeum vulgare), an agronomically important monocot plant cultivated for its endosperm, we set out to characterize the genes encoding barley PcG proteins. Four barley PcG gene homologues, named HvFIE, HvE(Z), HvSu(z)12a, and HvSu(z)12b were identified and structurally and phylogenetically characterized. The corresponding genes HvFIE, HvE(Z), HvSu(z)12a, and HvSu(z)12b were mapped onto barley chromosomes 7H, 4H, 2H and 5H, respectively. Expression analysis of the PcG genes revealed significant differences in gene expression among tissues and seed developmental stages and between barley cultivars with varying seed size. Furthermore, HvFIE and HvE(Z) gene expression was responsive to the abiotic stress-related hormone abscisic acid (ABA) known to be involved in seed maturation, dormancy and germination. This study reports the first characterization of the PcG homologues, HvFIE, HvE(Z), HvSu(z)12a and HvSu(z)12b in barley. All genes co-localized with known chromosomal regions responsible for malting quality related traits, suggesting that they might be used for developing molecular markers to be applied in marker assisted selection. The PcG differential expression pattern in different tissues and seed developmental stages as well as in two barley cultivars with different seed size is suggestive of a role for these genes in barley seed development. HvFIE and HvE(Z) were also found to be induced by the plant hormone ABA implying an association with ABA-mediated processes during seed development, germination and stress response.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) carrying recessive mutations at the Low number of tillers1 (Lnt1) gene does not develop secondary tillers and only develops one to four tillers by maturity. Double mutant analysis determined that the lnt1 mutant was epistatic to five of the six low and high tillering mutants tested. Double mutants of lnt1 and the low tillering mutant intermedium-b (int-b) resulted in a uniculm plant, indicating a synergistic interaction and that Lnt and Int-b function in separate tillering pathways. RNA profiling identified 70 transcripts with either increased or decreased abundance in the lnt1 mutant compared to wild-type. One gene with reduced transcript levels in the lnt1 mutant was the BELL-like homeodomain transcription factor JuBel2. The JuBel2 allele in the lnt1.a mutant contained a frameshift mutation that eliminated most of the predicted polypeptide, indicating that the Lnt1 gene encodes JuBel2. Previous studies with the low-tillering mutant absent lower laterals (als) showed that the tillering phenotypes and genetic interactions of als and lnt1 with other tillering mutants were very similar. However, the transcriptomes were very different; many transcripts annotated as stress and defense response exhibited increased abundance in the als mutant. This difference suggests a functional separation between Als and Lnt1 in the genetic control of tillering.
Root hairs are long tubular outgrowths of specialized root epidermal cells that play an important role in plant nutrition and water uptake. They are also an important model in studies of higher plant cell differentiation. In contrast to the model dicot Arabidopsis thaliana, currently very little is known about the genetic and molecular basis of root hair formation in monocots, including major cereals. To elucidate candidate genes controlling this developmental process in barley, we took advantage of the recently established Affymetrix GeneChip Barley1 Genome Array to carry out global transcriptome analyses of hairless and root hair primordia-forming roots of two barely mutant lines. Expression profiling of the root-hairless mutant rhl1.a and its wild type parent variety 'Karat' revealed 10 genes potentially involved in the early step of root hair formation in barley. Differential expression of all identified genes was confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The genes identified encode proteins associated with the cell wall and membranes, including one gene for xyloglucan endotransglycosylase, three for peroxidase enzymes and five for arabinogalactan protein, extensin, leucine-rich-repeat protein, phosphatidylinositol phosphatidylcholine transfer protein and a RhoGTPase GDP dissociation inhibitor, respectively. The molecular function of one gene is unknown at present. The expression levels of these genes were strongly reduced in roots of the root-hairless mutant rhl1.a compared to the parent variety, while expression of all 10 genes was similar in another mutant, i.e. rhp1.b, that has lost its ability to develop full root hairs but still forms hairs blocked at the primordium stage, and its wild type relative. This clearly indicates that the new genes identified are involved in the initiation of root hair morphogenesis in barley.
The accumulation of glycinebetaine (GB) is one of the adaptive strategies to adverse salt stress conditions. Although it has been demonstrated that barley plants accumulate GB in response to salt stress and various studies focused on GB synthesis were performed, its transport mechanism is still unclear. In this study, we identified a novel gene, HvProT2, encoding Hordeum vulgare GB/proline transporter from barley plants. Heterologous expression in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mutant demonstrated that the affinity of HvProT2 was highest for GB, intermediate for proline and lowest for gamma-aminobutyric acid. Transient expression of fusions of HvProT2 and green fluorescent protein in onion epidermal cells revealed that HvProT2 is localized at the plasma membrane. Relative quantification of mRNA level of HvProT2 using semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that HvProT2 is constitutively expressed in both leaves and roots, and the expression level was higher in old leaves than young leaves and roots. Moreover, we found that HvProT2 was expressed in the mestome sheath and lateral root cap cells. We discussed the possible involvement of HvProT2 for salt stress tolerance.
In photosynthetic organisms chlorophyll and heme biosynthesis is tightly regulated at various levels in response to environmental adaptation and plant development. The formation of 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) is the key regulatory step and provides adequate amounts of the common precursor molecule for the Mg and Fe branches of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis. Pathway control prevents accumulation of metabolic intermediates and avoids photo-oxidative damage. In angiosperms reduction of protochlorophyllide (Pchlide) to chlorophyllide is catalyzed by the light-dependent NADPH:Pchlide oxidoreductase (POR). Although a correlation between down-regulated ALA synthesis and accumulation of Pchlide in the dark was proposed a long time ago, the time-resolved mutual dependency has never been analyzed. Taking advantage of the high metabolic activity of young barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seedlings, in planta ALA synthesis could be determined with high time-resolution. ALA formation declined immediately after transition from light to dark and correlated with an immediate accumulation of POR-bound Pchlide within the first 60 min in darkness. The flu homologous barley mutant tigrina d(12) uncouples ALA synthesis from dark-suppression and continued to form ALA in darkness without a significant change in synthesis rate in this time interval. Similarly, inhibition of protoporphyrinogen IX oxidase by acifluorfen resulted in a delayed accumulation of Pchlide during the entire dark period and a weak repression of ALA synthesis in darkness. Moreover, it is demonstrated that dark repression of ALA formation relies rather on rapid post-translational regulation in response to accumulating Pchlide than on changes in nuclear gene expression.
Plants can use ammonium (NH4+) as the sole nitrogen source, but at high NH4+ concentrations in the root medium, particularly in combination with a low availability of K+, plants suffer from NH4+ toxicity. To understand the role of K+ transporters and non-selective cation channels in K+/NH4+ interactions better, growth, NH4+ and K+ accumulation and the specific fluxes of NH4+, K+, and H+ were examined in roots of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and Arabidopsis seedlings. Net fluxes of K+ and NH4+ were negatively correlated, as were their tissue concentrations, suggesting that there is direct competition during uptake. Pharmacological treatments with the K+ transport inhibitors tetraethyl ammonium (TEA+) and gadolinium (Gd3+) reduced NH4+ influx, and the addition of TEA+ alleviated the NH4+-induced depression of root growth in germinating Arabidopsis plants. Screening of a barley root cDNA library in a yeast mutant lacking all NH4+ and K+ uptake proteins through the deletion of MEP1-3 and TRK1 and TRK2 resulted in the cloning of the barley K+ transporter HvHKT2;1. Further analysis in yeast suggested that HvHKT2;1, AtAKT1, and AtHAK5 transported NH4+, and that K+ supplied at increasing concentrations competed with this NH4+ transport. On the other hand, uptake of K+ by AtHAK5, and to a lesser extent via HvHKT2;1 and AtAKT1, was inhibited by increasing concentrations of NH4+. Together, the results of this study show that plant K+ transporters and channels are able to transport NH4+. Unregulated NH4+ uptake via these transporters may contribute to NH4+ toxicity at low K+ levels, and may explain the alleviation of NH4+ toxicity by K+.
Stable RNA interference-based technology was used to silence the expression of the HvCKX1 gene in barley and the TaCKX1 gene in wheat and triticale. The silencing cassettes containing the fragments of these genes in the sense and antisense orientations were cloned into the pMCG161 binary vector and used for Agrobacterium-based transformation. Out of the five cultivars representing the three studied species, transgenic plants were obtained from one barley cultivar Golden Promise, one wheat cultivar Kontesa, and one triticale cultivar Wanad. Almost 80% of 52 regenerated lines of Golden Promise exhibited significantly decreased cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase (CKX) enzyme activity in bulked samples of their T(1) roots. There was a positive correlation between the enzyme activity and the plant productivity, expressed as the yield, the number of seeds per plant, and the 1000 grain weight. Additionally, these traits were associated with a greater root mass. Lower CKX activity led to a higher plant yield and root weight. This higher plant productivity and altered plant architecture were maintained in a population of segregating T(1) plants. The levels of HvCKX1 transcript accumulation were measured in various tissues of Golden Promise and Scarlett non-transgenic barley plants in order to choose the most appropriate plant organs to study the expression and/or silencing of the gene in those transgenic lines. The highest levels of the HvCKX1 transcript were detected in spikes 0 days after pollination (0 DAP), 7 DAP, and 14 DAP, and in the seedling roots. The analysis of HvCKX1 gene expression and CKX enzyme activity and the evaluation of the phenotype were performed in the progeny of seven selected transgenic T(1) lines. The relative expression of HvCKX1 measured in the spikes 0 DAP and 14 DAP, respectively, ranged from 0.52+/-0.04 to 1.15+/-0.26 and from 0.47+/-0.07 to 0.89+/-0.15. The lowest relative values were obtained for the enzyme activity in the spikes at 0 DAP, which ranged from 0.15+/-0.02 to 1.05+/-0.14 per single progeny plant. Based on these three values, the coefficient of HvCKX1 silencing in the spikes was estimated. Possible mechanisms leading to higher plant productivity via the silencing of HvCKX1 and a decrease in CKX enzyme activity are discussed.
The aim of the present study was to assess possible adverse effects of transgene expression in leaves of field-grown barley relative to the influence of genetic background and the effect of plant interaction with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. We conducted transcript profiling, metabolome profiling, and metabolic fingerprinting of wild-type accessions and barley transgenics with seed-specific expression of (1,3-1, 4)-beta-glucanase (GluB) in Baronesse (B) as well as of transgenics in Golden Promise (GP) background with ubiquitous expression of codon-optimized Trichoderma harzianum endochitinase (ChGP). We found more than 1,600 differential transcripts between varieties GP and B, with defense genes being strongly overrepresented in B, indicating a divergent response to subclinical pathogen challenge in the field. In contrast, no statistically significant differences between ChGP and GP could be detected based on transcriptome or metabolome analysis, although 22 genes and 4 metabolites were differentially abundant when comparing GluB and B, leading to the distinction of these two genotypes in principle component analysis. The coregulation of most of these genes in GluB and GP, as well as simple sequence repeat-marker analysis, suggests that the distinctive alleles in GluB are inherited from GP. Thus, the effect of the two investigated transgenes on the global transcript profile is substantially lower than the effect of a minor number of alleles that differ as a consequence of crop breeding. Exposing roots to the spores of the mycorrhizal Glomus sp. had little effect on the leaf transcriptome, but central leaf metabolism was consistently altered in all genotypes.
Using a large dataset (10 022 assays) obtained from public plant microarray databases, we developed the CoP database for associating co-expressed gene modules with biological information such as gene ontology terms and, if available, metabolic pathway names. The Confeito algorithm developed previously in our laboratory, which is suitable to calculate the interconnectivity between genes in co-expressed gene network, was applied to extract co-expressed gene modules. The database includes the gene modules for Arabidopsis thaliana (thale cress) and seven crops, Glycine max (soybean), Hordeum vulgare (barley), Oryza sativa (rice), Populus trichocarpa (poplar), Triticum aestivum (wheat), Vitis vinifera (grape) and Zea mays (maize). The CoP database is available at: http://webs2.kazusa.or.jp/kagiana/cop0911/.
Immunity of plants triggered by pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) is based on the execution of an evolutionarily conserved defense response that includes the accumulation of pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins as well as multiple other defenses. The most abundant PR transcript of barley (Hordeum vulgare) leaf epidermis attacked by the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp hordei encodes the germin-like protein GER4, which has superoxide dismutase activity and functions in PAMP-triggered immunity. Here, we show that barley GER4 is encoded by a dense cluster of tandemly duplicated genes (GER4a-h) that underwent several cycles of duplication. The genomic organization of the GER4 locus also provides evidence for repeated gene birth and death cycles. The GER4 promoters contain multiple WRKY factor binding sites (W-boxes) preferentially located in promoter fragments that were exchanged between subfamily members by gene conversion. Mutational analysis of TATA-box proximal W-boxes used GER4c promoter-beta-glucuronidase fusions to reveal their enhancing effects and functional redundancy on pathogen-induced promoter activity. The data suggest enhanced transcript dosage as an evolutionary driving force for the local expansion and functional redundancy of the GER4 locus. In addition, the GER4c promoter provides a tool to study signal transduction of PAMP-triggered immunity and to engineer strictly localized and pathogen-regulated disease resistance in transgenic cereal crops.
Suppression of inflorescence leaf, or bract, growth has evolved multiple times in diverse angiosperm lineages, including the Poaceae and Brassicaceae. Studies of Arabidopsis thaliana mutants have revealed several genes involved in bract suppression, but it is not known if these genes play a similar role in other plants with suppressed bracts. We identified maize (Zea mays) tassel sheath (tsh) mutants, characterized by the loss of bract suppression, that comprise five loci (tsh1-tsh5). We used map-based cloning to identify Tsh1 and found that it encodes a GATA zinc-finger protein, a close homolog of HANABA TARANU (HAN) of Arabidopsis. The bract suppression function of Tsh1 is conserved throughout the grass family, as we demonstrate that the rice (Oryza sativa) NECK LEAF1 (NL1) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) THIRD OUTER GLUME (TRD) genes are orthologous with Tsh1. Interestingly, NL1/Tsh1/TRD expression and function are not conserved with HAN. The existence of paralogous NL1/Tsh1/TRD-like genes in the grasses indicates that the NL1/Tsh1/TRD lineage was created by recent duplications that may have facilitated its neofunctionalization. A comparison with the Arabidopsis genes regulating bract suppression further supports the hypothesis that the convergent evolution of bract suppression in the Poaceae involved recruitment of a distinct genetic pathway.
The caryopses of barley (Hordeum vulgare), as of all cereals, are complex sink organs optimized for starch accumulation and embryo development. While their early to late development has been studied in great detail, processes underlying the caryopses' diurnal adaptation to changes in light, temperature, and the fluctuations in phloem-supplied carbon and nitrogen have remained unknown. In an attempt to identify diurnally affected processes in developing caryopses at the early maturation phase, we monitored global changes of both gene expression and metabolite levels. We applied the 22 K Barley1 GeneChip microarray and identified 2,091 differentially expressed (DE) genes that were assigned to six major diurnal expression clusters. Principal component analysis and other global analyses demonstrated that the variability within the data set relates to genes involved in circadian regulation, storage compound accumulation, embryo development, response to abiotic stress, and photosynthesis. The correlation of amino acid and sugar profiles with expression trajectories led to the identification of several hundred potentially metabolite-regulated DE genes. A comparative analysis of our data set and publicly available microarray data disclosed suborgan-specific expression of almost all diurnal DE genes, with more than 350 genes specifically expressed in the pericarp, endosperm, or embryo tissues. Our data reveal a tight linkage between day/night cycles, changes in light, and the supply of carbon and nitrogen. We present a model that suggests several phases of diurnal gene expression in developing barley caryopses, summarized as starvation and priming, energy collection and carbon fixation, light protection and chaperone activity, storage and growth, and embryo development.
Research on manganese (Mn) toxicity and tolerance indicates that Mn toxicity develops apoplastically through increased peroxidase activities mediated by phenolics and Mn, and Mn tolerance could be conferred by sequestration of Mn in inert cell compartments. This comparative study focuses on Mn-sensitive barley (Hordeum vulgare) and Mn-tolerant rice (Oryza sativa) as model organisms to unravel the mechanisms of Mn toxicity and/or tolerance in monocots. Bulk leaf Mn concentrations as well as peroxidase activities and protein concentrations were analysed in apoplastic washing fluid (AWF) in both species. In rice, Mn distribution between leaf compartments and the leaf proteome using 2D isoelectric focusing IEF/SDS-PAGE and 2D Blue native BN/SDS-PAGE was studied. The Mn sensitivity of barley was confirmed since the formation of brown spots on older leaves was induced by low bulk leaf and AWF Mn concentrations and exhibited strongly enhanced H2O2-producing and consuming peroxidase activities. In contrast, by a factor of 50, higher Mn concentrations did not produce Mn toxicity symptoms on older leaves in rice. Peroxidase activities, lower by a factor of about 100 in the rice leaf AWF compared with barley, support the view of a central role for these peroxidases in the apoplastic expression of Mn toxicity. The high Mn tolerance of old rice leaves could be related to a high Mn binding capacity of the cell walls. Proteomic studies suggest that the lower Mn tolerance of young rice leaves could be related to Mn excess-induced displacement of Mg and Fe from essential metabolic functions. The results provide evidence that Mn toxicity in barley involves apoplastic lesions mediated by peroxidases. The high Mn tolerance of old leaves of rice involves a high Mn binding capacity of the cell walls, whereas Mn toxicity in less Mn-tolerant young leaves is related to Mn-induced Mg and Fe deficiencies.
Physcion is a key active ingredient of the ethanol extract from roots of Chinese rhubarb (Rheum officinale Baill.) that has been commercialised in China for controlling powdery mildews. The biological mechanism of action of physcion against the barley powdery mildew pathogen was studied using bioassay and microarray methods. Bioassay indicated that physcion did not directly affect conidial germination of Blumeria graminis Speer f. sp. hordei Marchal, but significantly inhibited conidial germination in vivo. Challenge inoculation indicated that physcion induced localised resistance rather than systemic resistance against powdery mildew. Gene expression profiling of physcion-treated barley leaves detected four upregulated and five downregulated genes (ratio >or= 2.0 and P-value < 0.05) by using an Affymetrix Barley GeneChip. The five upregulated probe sequences blasted to the same barley leaf-specific thionin gene, with significant changes varying from 4.26 to 19.91-fold. All downregulated genes were defence-related, linked to peroxidase, oxalate oxidase, bsi1 protein and a pathogenesis-related protein. These changes varied from - 2.34 to - 2.96. Quantitative real-time PCR data confirmed that physcion enhanced the gene expression of leaf-specific thionin of barley. Results indicated that physcion controls powdery mildew mainly through changing the expression of defence-related genes, and especially enhancing expression of leaf-specific thionin in barley leaves.
The Mla locus in barley (Hordeum vulgare) conditions isolate-specific immunity to the powdery mildew fungus (Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei) and encodes intracellular coiled-coil (CC) domain, nucleotide-binding (NB) site, and leucine-rich repeat (LRR)-containing receptor proteins. Over the last decades, genetic studies in breeding material have identified a large number of functional resistance genes at the Mla locus. To study the structural and functional diversity of this locus at the molecular level, we isolated 23 candidate MLA cDNAs from barley accessions that were previously shown by genetic studies to harbor different Mla resistance specificities. Resistance activity was detected for 13 candidate MLA cDNAs in a transient gene-expression assay. Sequence alignment of the deduced MLA proteins improved secondary structure predictions, revealing four additional, previously overlooked LRR. Analysis of nucleotide diversity of the candidate and validated MLA cDNAs revealed 34 sites of positive selection. Recombination or gene conversion events were frequent in the first half of the gene but positive selection was also found when this region was excluded. The positively selected sites are all, except two, located in the LRR domain and cluster in predicted solvent-exposed residues of the repeats 7 to 15 and adjacent turns on the concave side of the predicted solenoid protein structure. This domain-restricted pattern of positively selected sites, together with the length conservation of individual LRR, suggests direct binding of effectors to MLA receptors.
Members of the ALMT gene family contribute to the Al(3+) resistance of several plant species by facilitating malate efflux from root cells. The first member of this family to be cloned and characterized, TaALMT1, is responsible for most of the natural variation of Al(3+) resistance in wheat. The current study describes the isolation and characterization of HvALMT1, the barley gene with the greatest sequence similarity to TaALMT1. HvALMT1 is located on chromosome 2H which has not been associated with Al(3+) resistance in barley. The relatively low levels of HvALMT1 expression detected in root and shoot tissues were independent of external aluminium or phosphorus supply. Transgenic barley plants transformed with the HvALMT1 promoter fused to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) indicated that expression of HvALMT1 was relatively high in stomatal guard cells and in root tissues containing expanding cells. GFP fused to the C-terminus of the full HvALMT1 protein localized to the plasma membrane and motile vesicles within the cytoplasm. HvALMT1 conferred both inward and outward currents when expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes that were bathed in a range of anions including malate. Both malate uptake and efflux were confirmed in oocyte assays using [(14)C]malate as a radiotracer. It is suggested that HvALMT1 functions as an anion channel to facilitate organic anion transport in stomatal function and expanding cells.
Nonhost resistance protects plants against attack by the vast majority of potential pathogens, including phytopathogenic fungi. Despite its high biological importance, the molecular architecture of nonhost resistance has remained largely unexplored. Here, we describe the transcriptional responses of one particular genotype of barley (Hordeum vulgare subsp. vulgare 'Ingrid') to three different pairs of adapted (host) and nonadapted (nonhost) isolates of fungal pathogens, which belong to the genera Blumeria (powdery mildew), Puccinia (rust), and Magnaporthe (blast). Nonhost resistance against each of these pathogens was associated with changes in transcript abundance of distinct sets of nonhost-specific genes, although general (not nonhost-associated) transcriptional responses to the different pathogens overlapped considerably. The powdery mildew- and blast-induced differences in transcript abundance between host and nonhost interactions were significantly correlated with differences between a near-isogenic pair of barley lines that carry either the Mlo wild-type allele or the mutated mlo5 allele, which mediates basal resistance to powdery mildew. Moreover, during the interactions of barley with the different host or nonhost pathogens, similar patterns of overrepresented and underrepresented functional categories of genes were found. The results suggest that nonhost resistance and basal host defense of barley are functionally related and that nonhost resistance to different fungal pathogens is associated with more robust regulation of complex but largely nonoverlapping sets of pathogen-responsive genes involved in similar metabolic or signaling pathways.
Recessively inherited natural and induced mutations in the barley Mlo gene confer durable broad-spectrum resistance against the powdery mildew pathogen, Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei. Mlo codes for a member of a plant-specific family of polytopic integral membrane proteins with unknown biochemical activity. Resistant barley mlo mutant alleles identify amino acid residues that are critical for Mlo function in the context of powdery mildew susceptibility. We molecularly analyzed a novel set of induced barley mlo mutants and used site-directed mutagenesis in combination with transient gene expression to unravel novel amino acid residues of functional significance. We integrate these results with previous findings to map functionally important regions of the heptahelical Mlo protein. Our data reveal the second and third cytoplasmic loop as being particularly sensitive to functional impediment by mutational perturbation, suggesting that these regions are critical for the susceptibility-conferring activity of the Mlo protein. In contrast, only mutations in the second but not the third cytoplasmic loop appear to trigger the Endoplasmic Reticulum-localized quality control machinery that ensures the biogenesis of properly folded membrane proteins. Our findings identify functionally important regions of the polytopic barley Mlo protein and reveal the differential sensitivity of individual protein domains to cellular quality control.
The roles of starch branching enzyme (SBE, EC 2.4.1.18) IIa and SBE IIb in defining the structure of amylose and amylopectin in barley (Hordeum vulgare) endosperm were examined. Barley lines with low expression of SBE IIa or SBE IIb, and with the low expression of both isoforms were generated through RNA-mediated silencing technology. These lines enabled the study of the role of each of these isoforms in determining the amylose content, the distribution of chain lengths, and the frequency of branching in both amylose and amylopectin. In lines where both SBE IIa and SBE IIb expression were reduced by >80%, a high amylose phenotype (>70%) was observed, while a reduction in the expression of either of these isoforms alone had minor impact on amylose content. The structure and properties of the high amylose starch resulting from the concomitant reduction in the expression of both isoforms of SBE II in barley were found to approximate changes seen in amylose extender mutants of maize, which result from lesions eliminating expression of the SBE IIb gene. Amylopectin chain length distribution analysis indicated that both SBE IIa and SBE IIb isoforms play distinct roles in determining the fine structure of amylopectin. A significant reduction in the frequency of branches in amylopectin was noticed only when both SBE IIa and SBE IIb were reduced, whereas there was a significant increase in the branching frequency of amylose when SBE IIb alone was reduced. Functional interactions between SBE isoforms are suggested, and a possible inhibitory role of SBE IIb on other SBE isoforms is discussed.
In agricultural cropping systems, crop residues are sources of organic carbon (C), an important factor influencing denitrification. The effects of red clover, soybean, and barley plant residues and of glucose on denitrifier abundance, denitrification gene mRNA levels, nitrous oxide (N(2)O) emissions, and denitrification rates were quantified in anoxic soil microcosms for 72 h. nosZ gene abundances and mRNA levels significantly increased in response to all organic carbon treatments over time. In contrast, the abundance and mRNA levels of Pseudomonas mandelii and closely related species (nirS(P)) increased only in glucose-amended soil: the nirS(P) guild abundance increased 5-fold over the 72-h incubation period (P < 0.001), while the mRNA level significantly increased more than 15-fold at 12 h (P < 0.001) and then subsequently decreased. The nosZ gene abundance was greater in plant residue-amended soil than in glucose-amended soil. Although plant residue carbon-to-nitrogen (C:N) ratios varied from 15:1 to 30:1, nosZ gene and mRNA levels were not significantly different among plant residue treatments, with an average of 3.5 x 10(7) gene copies and 6.9 x 10(7) transcripts g(-1) dry soil. Cumulative N(2)O emissions and denitrification rates increased over 72 h in both glucose- and plant-tissue-C-treated soil. The nirS(P) and nosZ communities responded differently to glucose and plant residue amendments. However, the targeted denitrifier communities responded similarly to the different plant residues under the conditions tested despite changes in the quality of organic C and different C:N ratios.
Histone acetylation is a vital mechanism for the activation of chromatin and the corresponding expression of genes competing the action of histone deacetylation and leading to chromatin inactivation. Histone acetyltransferases (HATs) comprise a superfamily including the GNAT/MYST, CBP and TF(II)250 families. Histone acetyltransferases have been well studied in Arabidopsis but information from agronomically important crops is limited. In the present work three full-length sequences encoding members of the GNAT/MYST family, namely HvMYST, HvELP3 and HvGCN5, respectively, were isolated and characterized from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), a crop of high economic value. Expression analysis of the barley GNAT/MYST genes revealed significant quantitative differences in different seed developmental stages and between cultivars with varying seed size and weight, suggesting an association of these genes with barley seed development. Furthermore, all three HvGNAT/MYST genes were inducible by the stress-related phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) involved in seed maturation, dormancy and germination, implying a possible regulation of these genes by ABA, during barley seed development, germination and stress response.
Thioredoxins are ubiquitous disulfide reductases involved in a wide range of cellular processes including DNA synthesis, oxidative stress response and apoptosis. In cereal seeds thioredoxins are proposed to facilitate the germination process by reducing disulfide bonds in storage proteins and other targets in the starchy endosperm. Here we have applied a thiol-specific labeling approach to identify specific disulfide targets of barley thioredoxin in proteins released from barley aleurone layers incubated in buffer containing gibberellic acid.
Consumption of a diet high in barley beta-glucan (BG) has been shown to prevent insulin resistance. To investigate the mechanism for the effects of barley BG, three groups of male 7-wk-old C57BL/6J mice were fed high-fat diets containing 0, 2, or 4% of barley BG for 12 wk. The 2% BG and 4% BG groups had significantly lower body weights compared with the 0% BG group. The 4% BG group demonstrated improved glucose tolerance and lower levels of insulin-resistance index and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide. Consumption of the BG diet decreased hepatic lipid content. Mice on the BG diet also demonstrated decreased fatty acid synthase and increased cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase gene expression levels. The BG diet promoted hepatic insulin signaling by decreasing serine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate 1 and activating Akt, and it decreased mRNA levels of glucose-6-phosphatase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase. In summary, consumption of BG reduced weight gain, decreased hepatic lipid accumulation, and improved insulin sensitivity in mice fed a high-fat diet. Insulin signaling enhanced due to the expression changes of glucose and lipid metabolism genes by BG consumption. Consumption of barley BG could be an effective strategy for preventing obesity, insulin resistance, and the metabolic syndrome.
Four accessions of hexaploid Elymus repens from its native Central European distribution area were analyzed using sequencing of multicopy (internal transcribed spacer, ITS) and single-copy (granule-bound starch synthase I, GBSSI) DNA in concert with genomic and fluorescent in situ hybridization (GISH and FISH) to disentangle its allopolyploid origin. Despite extensive ITS homogenization, nrDNA in E. repens allowed us to identify at least four distinct lineages. Apart from Pseudoroegneria and Hordeum, representing the major genome constituents, the presence of further unexpected alien genetic material, originating from species outside the Triticeae and close to Panicum (Paniceae) and Bromus (Bromeae), was revealed. GBSSI sequences provided information complementary to the ITS. Apart from Pseudoroegneria and Hordeum, two additional gene variants from within the Triticeae were discovered: One was Taeniatherum-like, but the other did not have a close relationship with any of the diploids sampled. GISH results were largely congruent with the sequence-based markers. GISH clearly confirmed Pseudoroegneria and Hordeum as major genome constituents and further showed the presence of a small chromosome segment corresponding to Panicum. It resided in the Hordeum subgenome and probably represents an old acquisition of a Hordeum progenitor. Spotty hybridization signals across all chromosomes after GISH with Taeniatherum and Bromus probes suggested that gene acquisition from these species is more likely due to common ancestry of the grasses or early introgression than to recent hybridization or allopolyploid origin of E. repens. Physical mapping of rDNA loci using FISH revealed that all rDNA loci except one minor were located on Pseudoroegneria-derived chromosomes, which suggests the loss of all Hordeum-derived loci but one. Because homogenization mechanisms seem to operate effectively among Pseudoroegneria-like copies in this species, incomplete ITS homogenization in our samples is probably due to an interstitial position of an individual minor rDNA locus located within the Hordeum-derived subgenome.
Nematophagous fungi Pochonia chlamydosporia and P. rubescens colonize endophytically barley roots. During nematode infection, serine proteases are secreted. We have investigated whether such proteases are also produced during root colonization. Polyclonal antibodies against serine protease P32 of P. rubescens cross-reacted with a related protease (VCP1) of P. chlamydosporia, but not with barley proteases. These antibodies also detected an unknown ca. 65-kDa protein, labeled hyphae and appressoria of P. chlamydosporia and strongly reduced proteolytic activity of extracts from fungus-colonized roots. Mass spectrometry (MS) of 32-kDa protein bands detected peptides homologous to VCP1 only in Pochonia-colonized roots. Peptides homologous to barley serine carboxypeptidases were found in 65kDa bands of all roots. RT-PCR detected expression of VCP1 and a new P. chlamydosporia serine carboxypeptidase (SCP1) genes only in fungus-colonized roots. SCP1 shared limited sequence homology with VCP1 and P32. Expression in roots of proteases from nematophagous fungi could be greatly relevant for nematode biocontrol.
Semi-dwarfing genes have been widely used in spring barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) breeding programs in many parts of the world, but the success in developing barley cultivars with semi-dwarfing genes has been limited in North America. Exploiting new semi-dwarfing genes may help in solving this dilemma. A recombinant inbred line population was developed by crossing ZAU 7, a semi-dwarf cultivar from China, to ND16092, a tall breeding line from North Dakota. To identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling plant height, a linkage map comprised of 111 molecular markers was constructed. Simple interval mapping was performed for each of the eight environments. A consistent QTL for plant height was found on chromosome 7HL. This QTL is not associated with maturity and rachis internode length. We suggest the provisional name Qph-7H for this QTL. Qph-7H from ZAU 7 reduced plant height to about 3/4 of normal; thus, Qph-7H is considered a semi-dwarfing gene. Other QTLs for plant height were found, but their expression was variable across the eight environments tested.
Association mapping is receiving considerable attention in plant genetics for its potential to fine map quantitative trait loci (QTL), validate candidate genes, and identify alleles of interest. In the present study association mapping in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is investigated by associating DNA polymorphisms with variation in grain quality traits, plant height, and flowering time to gain further understanding of gene functions involved in the control of these traits. We focused on the four loci BLZ1, BLZ2, BPBF and HvGAMYB that play a role in the regulation of B-hordein expression, the major fraction of the barley storage protein. The association was tested in a collection of 224 spring barley accessions using a two-stage mixed model approach. Within the sequenced fragments of four candidate genes we observed different levels of nucleotide diversity. The effect of selection on the candidate genes was tested by Tajima's D which revealed significant values for BLZ1, BLZ2, and BPBF in the subset of two-rowed barleys. Pair-wise LD estimates between the detected SNPs within each candidate gene revealed different intra-genic linkage patterns. On the basis of a more extensive examination of genomic regions surrounding the four candidate genes we found a sharp decrease of LD (r2<0.2 within 1 cM) in all but one flanking regions.Significant marker-trait associations between SNP sites within BLZ1 and flowering time, BPBF and crude protein content and BPBF and starch content were detected. Most haplotypes occurred at frequencies <0.05 and therefore were rejected from the association analysis. Based on haplotype information, BPBF was associated to crude protein content and starch content, BLZ2 showed association to thousand-grain weight and BLZ1 was found to be associated with flowering time and plant height. Differences in nucleotide diversity and LD pattern within the candidate genes BLZ1, BLZ2, BPBF, and HvGAMYB reflect the impact of selection on the nucleotide sequence of the four candidate loci.Despite significant associations, the analysed candidate genes only explained a minor part of the total genetic variation although they are known to be important factors influencing the expression of seed quality traits. Therefore, we assume that grain quality as well as plant height and flowering time are influenced by many factors each contributing a small part to the expression of the phenotype. A genome-wide association analysis could provide a more comprehensive picture of loci involved in the regulation of grain quality, thousand grain weight and the other agronomic traits that were analyzed in this study. However, despite available high-throughput genotyping arrays the marker density along the barely genome is still insufficient to cover all associations in a whole genome scan. Therefore, the candidate gene-based approach will further play an important role in barley association studies.
An alternative to complete genome sequencing is development and analysis of ESTs-fragments of transcribed coding DNA sequences. The EST collections also enhanced the development of cDNA microarray technologies, which make possible assessing the transcription levels of several thousand genes in a studied tissue of an organism in the same experiment. This paper provides an overview of the results of experiments with a barley microarray, Affymetrix Barley1 GeneChip. The variation in transcription levels of over 22000 genes in germinating barley grain of 150 barley double haploid lines produced by crossing cultivars Steptoe and Morex. Variation in gene expression of each gene is a quantitative trait, which can be mapped in population of double haploids as the genetic loci determining its variation (expressed QTL or eQTL). A regulatory locus (eQTL) can colocalize with the corresponding gene on genetic map (cis-eQTL) or be distant from it, frequently on another chromosome (trans-eQTL). Thus, it is possible to detect and analyze cis- and trans-regulatory loci for genes on a genome-wide scale. The design of the Affymetrix oligonucleotide arrays makes it possible not only to concurrently test the transcription level of several thousand genes, but also to simultaneously detect the polymorphic regions in cDNA sequences, thereby finding a considerable fraction of all nucleotide substitutions between the compared genotypes. Two types of data (the expression levels of several thousand genes and the presence of polymorphic sites in their sequences) can be obtained concurrently when processing the results of the same experiment. The details of both procedures are illustrated with explanatory examples.
Certain lines of wild barley (Hordeum spontaneum) are more tolerant of salinity than others. The physiological basis of this difference is examined in a comparative study of a saline-tolerant and saline-intolerant line that emphasizes plant water relations. Effects of salt-treatment (75 mM maximum) extending from a few hours to 3 weeks were quantified in 8-day-old seedlings of a saline-sensitive wild barley line ('T-1') and a less saline-sensitive line ('20-45'). Plants were grown in nutrient culture. Levels of mRNA of the HtPIP2;4 aquaporin (AQP) gene were determined together with a range of physiological responses including root hydraulic conductivity, osmotic potential of root xylem sap, transpiration, leaf relative water content, root water content, leaf water potential, leaf sap osmolality, leaf length, leaf area and chlorophyll content. Salt treatment inhibited transpiration and hydraulic conductivity more in salt-tolerant '20-45' plants than in salt-sensitive 'T-1'. In '20-45', the effect was paralleled by a fast (within a few hours) and persistent (3 days) down-regulation of aquaporin. In salt-sensitive 'T-1' plants, aquaporin down-regulation was delayed for up to 24 h. Greater tolerance in '20-45' plants was characterized by less inhibition of leaf area, root fresh weight, leaf water content and chlorophyll concentration. Leaf water potentials were similar in both lines. (i) Decline in hydraulic conductivity in salt-treated barley plants is important for stomatal closure, (ii) lowered transpiration rate is beneficial for salt tolerance, at least at the seedling stage and (iii) changes in AQP expression are implicated in the control of whole plant hydraulic conductivity and the regulation of shoot water relations.
The effect of the S nutritional status on a plant's capability to cope with Fe shortage was studied in solution cultivation experiments in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Europa). Barley is a Strategy II plant and responds to Fe deficiency by secretion of chelating compounds, phytosiderophores (PS). All PS are derived from nicotianamine whose precursor is methionine. This suggests that a long-term supply of an inadequate amount of S could reduce a plant's capability to respond to Fe deficiency by limiting the rate of PS biosynthesis. The responses of barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Europa) plants grown for 12 d on Fe-free nutrient solutions (NS) containing 0 or 1.2 mM SO(4)(2-), was examined after 24 h or 48 h from transfer to NS containing 1.2 mM SO(4)(2-). After the supply of S was restored to S-deprived plants, an increase in PS release in root exudates was evident after 24 h of growth in S-sufficient NS and the increment reached values up to 4-fold higher than the control 48 h after S resupply. When S was supplied to S-deficient plants, leaf ATPS (EC 2.7.7.4) and OASTL (EC 4.2.99.8) activities exhibited a progressive recovery. Furthermore, root HvST1 transcript abundance remained high for 48 h following S resupply and a significant increase in the level of root HvYS1 transcripts was also found after only 24 h of S resupply. Data support the idea that the extent to which the plant is able to cope with Fe starvation is strongly associated with its S nutritional status. In particular, our results are indicative that barley plants fully recover their capability to cope with Fe shortage after the supply of S is restored to S-deficient plants.
The cleistogamous flower sheds its pollen before opening, forcing plants with this habit to be almost entirely autogamous. Cleistogamy also provides a means of escape from cereal head blight infection and minimizes pollen-mediated gene flow. The lodicule in cleistogamous barley is atrophied. We have isolated cleistogamy 1 (Cly1) by positional cloning and show that it encodes a transcription factor containing two AP2 domains and a putative microRNA miR172 targeting site, which is an ortholog of Arabidopsis thaliana AP2. The expression of Cly1 was concentrated within the lodicule primordia. We established a perfect association between a synonymous nucleotide substitution at the miR172 targeting site and cleistogamy. Cleavage of mRNA directed by miR172 was detectable only in a noncleistogamous background. We conclude that the miR172-derived down-regulation of Cly1 promotes the development of the lodicules, thereby ensuring noncleistogamy, although the single nucleotide change at the miR172 targeting site results in the failure of the lodicules to develop properly, producing the cleistogamous phenotype.
Increasing grain sink strength by improving assimilate uptake capacity could be a promising approach toward getting higher yield. The barley (Hordeum vulgare) sucrose transporter HvSUT1 (SUT) was expressed under control of the endosperm-specific Hordein B1 promoter (HO). Compared with the wild type, transgenic HOSUT grains take up more sucrose (Suc) in vitro, showing that the transgene is functional. Grain Suc levels are not altered, indicating that Suc fluxes are influenced rather than steady-state levels. HOSUT grains have increased percentages of total nitrogen and prolamins, which is reflected in increased levels of phenylalanine, tyrosine, tryptophan, isoleucine, and leucine at late grain development. Transcript profiling indicates specific stimulation of prolamin gene expression at the onset of storage phase. Changes in gene expression and metabolite levels related to carbon metabolism and amino acid biosynthesis suggest deregulated carbon-nitrogen balance, which together indicate carbon sufficiency and relative depletion of nitrogen. Genes, deregulated together with prolamin genes, might represent candidates, which respond positively to assimilate supply and are related to sugar-starch metabolism, cytokinin and brassinosteroid functions, cell proliferation, and sugar/abscisic acid signaling. Genes showing inverse expression patterns represent potential negative regulators. It is concluded that HvSUT1 overexpression increases grain protein content but also deregulates the metabolic status of wheat (Triticum aestivum) grains, accompanied by up-regulated gene expression of positive and negative regulators related to sugar signaling and assimilate supply. In HOSUT grains, alternating stimulation of positive and negative regulators causes oscillatory patterns of gene expression and highlights the capacity and great flexibility to adjust wheat grain storage metabolism in response to metabolic alterations.
High soil boron (B) concentrations lead to the accumulation of B in leaves, causing the development of necrotic regions in leaf tips and margins, gradually extending back along the leaf. Plants vary considerably in their tolerance to B toxicity, and it was recently discovered that one of the tolerance mechanisms involved extrusion of B from the root. Expression of a gene encoding a root B efflux transporter was shown to be much higher in tolerant cultivars. In our current research we have shown that the same gene is also upregulated in leaves. However, unlike in the root, the increased activity of the B efflux transporter in the leaves cannot reduce the tissue B concentration. Instead, we have shown that in tolerant cultivars, these transporters redistribute B from the intracellular phase where it is toxic, into the apoplast which is much less sensitive to B. These results provide an explanation of why different cultivars with the same leaf B concentrations can show markedly different toxicity symptoms. We have also shown that rain can remove a large proportion of leaf B, leading to significant improvements of growth of both leaves and roots.
Grain protein content (GPC) is a key quality factor for malting and brewing process. In wheat, a QTL explaining a large part of GPC variation was identified, which co-localizes with a gene encoding a NAC transcription factor (TtNAM-B1). NAC transcription factors influence GPC by their role in the regulation of senescence and in protein remobilization. An orthologous gene was discovered on barley chromosome 6H where a GPC QTL was mapped. In this study, we identify allelic variation of the NAM-1 gene for three species of Hordeum representing wild and cultivated barley and we investigate the possible link with GPC. Three haplotypes were identified, one corresponds to the sequences of 11 European varieties representing H. vulgare, one corresponds to the sequence found in H. spontaneum and one represents the sequence of H. bulbosum. Three SNPs were identified between H. spontaneum sequence and H. vulgare sequence. One of the H. bulbosum polymorphisms leads to the introduction of a stop codon and a non-functional protein. Differences in GPC between the 11 varieties were found but no polymorphism in the NAM-1 gene was observed, suggesting that differences in expression of the HvNAM-1 gene or other genes should play a role in GPC regulation. Nevertheless based on published values for GPC of H. bulbosum and H. spontaneum compared to GPC measured here in H. vulgare, the non-functional protein is associated with the lower GPC, suggesting that loss of functionality of the NAM-1 gene in Hordeum is related to lower GPC. Moreover H. spontaneum GPC seems to be higher than H. vulgare GPC, suggesting also that allelic variation of the functional NAM-1 gene could be associated with GPC variation within the genus Hordeum.
To understand further the role of deoxynivalenol (DON) in development of Fusarium head blight (FHB), we investigated effects of the toxin on uninfected barley tissues. Leaf segments, 1 to 1.2 cm long, partially stripped of epidermis were floated with exposed mesophyll in contact with DON solutions. In initial experiments with the leaf segments incubated in light, DON at 30 to 90 ppm turned portions of stripped tissues white after 48 to 96 h. The bleaching effect was greatly enhanced by addition of 1 to 10 mM Ca(2+), so that DON at 10 to 30 ppm turned virtually all stripped tissues white within 48 h. Content of chlorophylls a and b and of total carotenoid pigment was reduced. Loss of electrolytes and uptake of Evans blue indicated that DON had a toxic effect, damaging plasmalemmas in treated tissues before chloroplasts began to lose pigment. When incubated in the dark, leaf segments also lost electrolytes, indicating DON was toxic although the tissues remained green. Thus, loss of chlorophyll in light was due to photobleaching and was a secondary effect of DON, not required for toxicity. In contrast to bleaching effects, some DON treatments that were not toxic kept tissues green without bleaching or other signs of injury, indicating senescence was delayed compared with slow yellowing of untreated leaf segments. Cycloheximide, which like DON, inhibits protein synthesis, also bleached some tissues and delayed senescence of others. Thus, the effects of DON probably relate to its ability to inhibit protein synthesis. With respect to FHB, the results suggest DON may have multiple roles in host cells of infected head tissues, including delayed senescence in early stages of infection and contributing to bleaching and death of cells in later stages.
Hypersensitive response (HR) against Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei infection in barley (Hordeum vulgare) was associated with stomata "lock-up" leading to increased leaf water conductance (g(l)). Unique spatio-temporal patterns of HR formation occurred in barley with Mla1, Mla3, or MlLa R genes challenged with B. graminis f. sp. hordei. With Mla1, a rapid HR, limited to epidermal cells, arrested fungal growth before colonies initiated secondary attacks. With Mla3, mesophyll HR preceded that in epidermal cells whose initial survival supported secondary infections. With MlLa, mesophyll survived and not all attacked epidermal cells died immediately, allowing colony growth and secondary infection until arrested. Isolines with Mla1, Mla3, or MlLa genes inoculated with B. graminis f. sp. hordei ranging from 1 to 100 conidia mm(2) showed abnormally high g(l) during dark periods whose timing and extent correlated with those of each HR. Each isoline showed increased dark g(l) with the nonpathogen B. graminis f. sp. avenae which caused a single epidermal cell HR. Guard cell autofluorescence was seen only after drying of epidermal strips and closure of stomata suggesting that locked open stomata were viable. The data link stomatal lock-up to HR associated cell death and has implications for strategies for selecting disease resistant genotypes.
The development of winter malting barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) varieties is emerging as a worldwide priority due to the numerous advantages of these varieties over spring types. However, the complexity of both malting quality and winter hardiness phenotypes makes simultaneous improvement a challenge. To obtain an understanding of the relationship between loci controlling winter hardiness and malt quality and to assess the potential for breeding winter malting barley varieties, we structurally and functionally characterized the six-row accession "88Ab536", a cold-tolerant line with superior malting quality characteristics that derives from the cross of NE76129/Morex//Morex. We used 4,596 SNPs to construct the haplotype structure of 88Ab536 on which malting quality and winter hardiness loci reported in the literature were aligned. The genomic regions determining malting quality and winter hardiness traits have been defined in this founder germplasm, which will assist breeders in targeting regions for marker-assisted selection. The Barley1 GeneChip array was used to functionally characterize 88Ab536 during malting. Its gene expression profile was similar to that of the archetypical malting variety Morex, which is consistent with their similar malting quality characteristics. The characterization of 88Ab536 has increased our understanding of the genetic relationships of malting quality and winter hardiness, and will provide a genetic foundation for further development of more cold-tolerant varieties that have malt quality characteristics that meet or exceed current benchmarks.
In Magnaporthe oryzae, pyriform conidia are the primary inoculum and the main source for disease dissemination in the field. In this study, we identified and characterized the COM1 gene that was disrupted in three insertional mutants producing slender conidia. COM1 encodes a putative transcription regulator unique to filamentous ascomycetes. The com1 disruption and deletion mutants had similar defects in conidium morphology and were significantly reduced in virulence on rice and barley seedlings. Microscopic examination revealed that the Deltacom1 mutants were defective in appressorium turgor generation, penetration, and infectious growth. COM1 was expressed constitutively in M. oryzae. The Com1 protein had putative helix-loop-helix structures and three predicted nuclear localization signal sequences. In transformants expressing COM1(335-613)-enhanced green fluorescent protein fusion constructs, fluorescence signals were observed in the nucleus. Our data indicated that the COM1 gene may encode a novel transcription regulator that regulates conidial development and invasive growth in M. oryzae.
The photosynthetic organs of the barley spike (lemma, palea, and awn) are considered resistant to drought. However, there is little information about gene expression in the spike organs under drought conditions. We compared response of the transcriptome of the lemma, palea, awn, and seed to drought stress using the Barley1 Genome Array. Barley plants were exposed to drought treatment for 4 days at the grain-filling stage by withholding water. At the end of the stress, relative water content of the lemma, palea, and awn dropped from 85% to 60%. Nevertheless, the water content of the seed only decreased from 89% to 81%. Transcript abundance followed the water status of the spike organs; the awn had more drought-regulated genes followed by lemma and palea, and the seed showed very little change in gene expression. Despite expressing more drought-associated genes, many genes for amino acid, amino acid derivative, and carbohydrate metabolism, as well as for photosynthesis, respiration, and stress response, were down-regulated in the awn compared with the lemma, palea, and seed. This suggests that the lemma and the palea are more resistant to drought stress compared with the awn.
Head blight or scab caused by Fusarium graminearum is a destructive disease of wheat and barley. The pathogen can cause severe yield losses and contaminates infested kernels with harmful mycotoxins. In this study, we characterized the CID1 gene in F. graminearum that is an ortholog of the Fusarium verticilloidesFCC1 and yeast UME3 genes. The protein encoded by CID1 has typical structural features of C-type cyclins. Deletion of CID1 resulted in a reduction in conidiation and vegetative growth but an increase in pigmentation. The Deltacid1 mutant was female sterile but could outcross as a male. It was significantly reduced in DON production and virulence on wheat heads and corn stalks. Only about 50% of inoculated spikelets developed scab symptoms and scab disease rarely extended to nearby florets, suggesting that the Deltacid1 mutant was defective in colonizing and spreading in wheat heads. Deletion of CID1 resulted in reduced expression levels of TRI5 and TRI101 but increased PKS12 expression. When expressed in F. verticillioides, the CID1 gene complemented the defects of the Deltafcc1 mutant in conidiation, hyphal growth, and fumonisin production. Our data indicate that the CID1 C-type cyclin gene plays multiple roles in the regulation of vegetative growth, sexual development, conidiation, DON production, and pathogenicity.
Boron tolerance is a quantitative trait controlled by multiple genes. Suppression subtractive hybridization was carried out on root cDNA from bulked boron tolerant and intolerant doubled haploid barley lines grown under moderate boron stress to identify genes associated with boron tolerance. One hundred and eleven clones representing known proteins were found to be up-regulated in the tolerant bulk upon boron stress. Nine clones were genetically mapped to previously reported boron tolerance QTL. These include a clone identical to the boron transporter gene Bot1 and a clone coding for a bromo-adjacent homology domain-containing protein, mapping to the 6H boron tolerance locus and co-segregating with reduced boron intake in a Clipper x Sahara-3771 mapping population. A third clone mapping to the 2H QTL region encoding an S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase precursor was found to provide tolerance to high boron by heterologous expression. Yeast cells expressing Sahara SAMDC were able to grow on 15 mm boron solid media and maintained cellular boron concentrations at 13% lower than control cells expressing empty vector. The data suggest that an antioxidative response mechanism involving polyamines and the ascorbate-glutathione pathway in Sahara barley may provide an advantage in tolerating high soil concentrations of boron.
Although barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is a salt-tolerant crop, the underlying physiological and molecular mechanisms of salt tolerance remain to be elucidated. Therefore, we investigated the response of salt-tolerant (K305) and salt-sensitive (I743) cultivars to salt stress at both physiological and molecular levels. Salt treatment increased xylem sap osmolarity, which was attributed primarily to a rise in Na(+) and Cl(-) concentration; enhanced accumulation of the ions in shoots; and reduced plant growth more severely in I743 than K305. The concentration of K(+) in roots and shoots decreased during 8 h of salt treatment in both cultivars but with no marked difference between cultivars. Hence, the severe growth reduction in I743 is attributed to the elevated levels of (mainly) Na(+) in shoots. Analysis of gene expression using quantitative RT-PCR showed that transcripts of K(+)-transporters (HvHAK1 and HvAKT1), vacuolar H(+)-ATPase and inorganic pyrophosphatase (HvHVA/68 and HvHVP1) were more abundant in shoots of K305 than in shoots of I743. Expression of HvHAK1 and Na(+)/H(+) antiporters (HvNHX1, HvNHX3 and HvNHX4) was higher in roots of K305 than in I743 with prolonged exposure to salt. Taken together, these results suggest that the better performance of K305 compared to I743 during salt stress may be related to its greater ability to sequester Na(+) into sub-cellular compartments and/or maintain K(+) homeostasis.
The effect of cadmium (Cd) on the expression and activity of NADPH oxidase, peroxidase and oxalate oxidase as well as on the expression of aquaporins and dehydrins was studied in barley root tip. The root tip represented intact apical part of the barley root containing the root cap, meristems and elongation zone. Except stress induced by Cd, barley root tips were analysed after their exposure to phytotoxic concentration of mercury (Hg)-, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)- or polyethylene glycol (PEG)-induced water stress in order to compare the Cd-induced changes with changes induced by these other stress factors. Cd, Hg, H2O2 and with some exceptions also PEG treatments caused similar alterations in the gene expression of reactive oxygen species (ROS)-generating and water deficiency-related genes, and in the activity of ROS-generating enzymes. These evidences support our opinion that ROS accumulation and water imbalance are the common symptoms of these stress factors and that the elevated production of H2O2 plays, probably as a signal molecule, a key role in the induction of plant responses to abiotic stresses in barley root tip. On the other hand, H2O2 at permanent high concentration is probably the main toxic factor during stress conditions.
Advances in DNA sequencing technologies have produced an ever increasing number of sequenced genomes. However, many of the genes identified in these sequencing efforts have unknown functions or functions inferred based upon sequence homology, highlighting the necessity for functional gene analysis. Mutagenesis combined with phenotypic analyses remains a key mechanism for identifying and establishing gene function. Activation tagging is a mutagenic process that uses altered gene expression, usually gene overexpression, to generate mutant phenotypes. We have developed an activation tagging system in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) based upon a maize (Zea mays L.) transposable element that carries two highly expressed cereal promoters. Insertion of this mobile genetic element in the genome can lead to insertional gene inactivation, gene overexpression and gene silencing through the production of antisense transcripts. This transposable element system has also been introduced into both wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and maize and transposon mobility observed.
Programmed cell death (PCD) plays a pivotal role in plant development and defense. To investigate the interaction between PCD and R gene-mediated defense, we used the 22K Barley1 GeneChip to compare and contrast time-course expression profiles of Blumeria graminis f. sp hordei (Bgh) challenged barley (Hordeum vulgare) cultivar C.I. 16151 (harboring the Mla6 powdery mildew resistance allele) and its fast neutron-derived Bgh-induced tip cell death1 mutant, bcd1. Mixed linear model analysis identified genes associated with the cell death phenotype as opposed to R gene-mediated resistance. One-hundred fifty genes were found at the threshold P value < 0.0001 and a false discovery rate <0.6%. Of these, 124 were constitutively overexpressed in the bcd1 mutant. Gene Ontology and rice (Oryza sativa) alignment-based annotation indicated that 68 of the 124 overexpressed genes encode ribosomal proteins. A deletion harboring six genes on chromosome 5H cosegregates with bcd1-specified cell death and is associated with misprocessing of rRNAs but segregates independent of R gene-mediated resistance. Barley stripe mosaic virus-induced gene silencing of one of the six deleted genes, RRP46 (rRNA-processing protein 46), phenocopied bcd1-mediated tip cell death. These findings suggest that RRP46, a critical component of the exosome core, mediates RNA processing and degradation involved in cell death initiation as a result of attempted penetration by Bgh during the barley-powdery mildew interaction but is independent of gene-for-gene resistance.
The B-hordein gene family was analyzed from two Tibetan hull-less barley cultivars Z09 and Z26 (Hordeum vulgare subsp. vulgare). Fourteen B-hordein genes, designated BZ09-2 to BZ09-5 (from Z09) and BZ26-1 to BZ26-10 (from Z26), were sequenced. Seven of them, similar to a previously reported BZ09-1 from Z09, were predicted to encode putative active proteins each with a signal peptide, a repetitive domain, and a C-terminal region; seven of them were predicted to be pseudogenes. The B-hordein gene family was analyzed using all known representatives of B-hordein sequences and two most similar LMW-GSs of Triticum aestivum. Alignment of these seven putative proteins with known B-hordeins and two most similar LMW-GSs of T. aestivum revealed that they shared a common motif. A large variation was observed between numbers of repeat units of predicted B-hordeins of Z26 and Z09. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that all BZ26 clones were clustered in a subgroup, and BZ09-1 formed another subgroup by itself in the putative eight active genes. In addition, six 5'-upstream regulatory sequences of the B-hordein genes were isolated from the two accessions by a single oligonucleotide nested PCR, and several different mutations were identified in the cis-acting element GLM and two distinctive sequences (Z09P-2 and Z26P-3). Phylogenetic analysis of 5'-upstream regulatory regions of the B-hordein genes showed that members from the same accession were clustered together except for two distinct members. Quantitative real time PCR analysis indicated distinct expression levels of B-hordein genes in four developing stages of developing grains in two accessions. These findings suggest B-hordein genes have intrinsic differences between accessions, and this knowledge will be useful for incorporating the B-hordeins protein in barley breeding programs.
The genome of Brachypodium distachyon, also known as purple false brome, was fully sequenced in 2008 largely in response to the demand for a model plant for temperate grasses. A comparative study of the primary cell walls of seedlings of B. distachyon, Hordeum vulgare and Triticum aestivum was carried out. The cell walls of the three species were characterized by similar relative levels of, and developmental changes in, hemicelluloses. The occurrence of (1,3;1,4)-beta-D-glucans was correlated with phases of growth involving cell elongation. Expression profiling of the genes involved in (1,3;1,4)-beta-D-glucan synthesis (cellulose synthase-like F family (CSLF), CSLH and a putative synthase gene CSLJ) did not show a transcriptional regulation that corresponded to the abundance of (1,3;1,4)-beta-D-glucans. CSLF6 transcripts were similarly highly expressed in all three grasses, and were much more abundant than any of the other transcripts. The CSLH transcript was relatively abundant in B. distachyon but almost undetectable in the other species. The deposition of arabinoxylans increased steadily during seedling growth in all three grasses, but they became less substituted and more cross-linked into the wall matrix during cell maturation. Moreover, arabinoxylans in B. distachyon differed from the two other grasses in having a lower degree of arabinose substitution, a higher percentage of ferulic acid in form of dimers and a larger proportion of ester-linked p-coumaric acid.
Work with cereals (barley and wheat) and a legume (Medicago truncatula) has established thioredoxin h (Trx h) as a central regulatory protein of seeds. Trx h acts by reducing disulfide (S-S) groups of diverse seed proteins (storage proteins, enzymes, and enzyme inhibitors), thereby facilitating germination. Early in vitro protein studies were complemented with experiments in which barley seeds with Trx h overexpressed in the endosperm showed accelerated germination and early or enhanced expression of associated enzymes (alpha-amylase and pullulanase). The current study extends the transgenic work to wheat. Two approaches were followed to alter the expression of Trx h genes in the endosperm: (1) a hordein promoter and its protein body targeting sequence led to overexpression of Trx h5, and (2) an antisense construct of Trx h9 resulted in cytosolic underexpression of that gene (Arabidopsis designation). Underexpression of Trx h9 led to effects opposite to those observed for overexpression Trx h5 in barley-retardation of germination and delayed or reduced expression of associated enzymes. Similar enzyme changes were observed in developing seeds. The wheat lines with underexpressed Trx showed delayed preharvest sprouting when grown in the greenhouse or field without a decrease in final yield. Wheat with overexpressed Trx h5 showed changes commensurate with earlier in vitro work: increased solubility of disulfide proteins and lower allergenicity of the gliadin fraction. The results are further evidence that the level of Trx h in cereal endosperm determines fundamental properties as well as potential applications of the seed.
Thioredoxins (Trx) are ubiquitous proteins that participate in thiol disulfide reactions via two active site cysteine residues, allowing Trx to reduce disulfide bonds in target proteins. Recent progress in proteome analysis has resulted in identification of a wide range of potential target proteins for Trx, indicating that Trx plays a key role in several aspects of cell metabolism. In contrast to other organisms, plants contain multiple forms of Trx that are classified based on their primary structures and sub-cellular localization. The reduction of cytosolic and mitochondrial types of Trx is dependent on NADPH and catalyzed by NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase (NTR). In barley, two isoforms each of Trx and NTR have been identified and investigated using proteomics, gene expression, and structural studies. This review outlines the diverse roles suggested for cytosolic/mitochondrial-type Trx systems in cereal seeds and summarizes the current knowledge of the barley system including recent data on function, regulation, interactions, and structure. Directions for future research are discussed.
The wide-spread use of microarray technologies to study plant transcriptomes has led to important discoveries and to an accumulation of profiling data covering a wide range of different tissues, developmental stages, perturbations, and genotypes. Querying a large number of microarray experiments can provide insights that cannot be gained by analyzing single experiments. However, such a meta-analysis poses significant challenges with respect to data comparability and normalization, systematic sample annotation, and analysis tools. Genevestigator addresses these issues using a large curated expression database and a set of specifically developed analysis tools that are accessible over the internet. This combination has already proven to be useful in the area of plant research based on a large set of Arabidopsis data (Grennan, 2006). Here, we present the release of the Genevestigator rice and barley gene expression databases that contain quality-controlled and well annotated microarray experiments using ontologies. The databases currently comprise experiments from pathology, plant nutrition, abiotic stress, hormone treatment, genotype, and spatial or temporal analysis, but are expected to cover a broad variety of research areas as more experimental data become available. The transcriptome meta-analysis of the model species rice and barley is expected to deliver results that can be used for functional genomics and biotechnological applications in cereals.
The genetic basis of nonhost resistance of barley to nonadapted formae speciales of Blumeria graminis is not known, as there is no barley line that is susceptible to these nonadapted formae speciales, such as the wheat powdery mildew pathogen, Blumeria graminis f.sp. tritici (Bgt). Barley accessions with rudimentary susceptibility to an isolate of the nonadapted Bgt were identified. Those accessions were intercrossed in two cycles and two lines, called SusBgt(SC) and SusBgt(DC), with substantial susceptibility to Bgt at the seedling stage were selected. The quantitative variation among barley accessions and in the progenies after convergent crossing suggests a polygenic basis for this nonhost resistance. Both lines allowed an unusually high level of haustorium formation and colony development by Bgt. The SusBgt lines and their ancestor lines also allowed haustorium formation and conidiation by four out of seven isolates of other nonadapted B. graminis forms. Analysis of the infection process suggested that nonhost resistance factors are specific to the form and developmental stage of B. graminis. Resistances to establishment (first haustorium), colonization (subsequent haustoria) and conidiation are not associated. The lines developed will be of use in elucidating the genetic basis of nonhost resistance to Bgt in barley, and in gene expression and complementation studies on nonhost resistance.
A cytoplasmically inherited chlorophyll-deficient mutant of barley (Hordeum vulgare) termed cytoplasmic line 3 (CL3), displaying a viridis (homogeneously light-green colored) phenotype, has been previously shown to be affected by elevated temperatures. In this article, biochemical, biophysical, and molecular approaches were used to study the CL3 mutant under different temperature and light conditions. The results lead to the conclusion that an impaired assembly of photosystem I (PSI) under higher temperatures and certain light conditions is the primary cause of the CL3 phenotype. Compromised splicing of ycf3 transcripts, particularly at elevated temperature, resulting from a mutation in a noncoding region (intron 1) in the mutant ycf3 gene results in a defective synthesis of Ycf3, which is a chaperone involved in PSI assembly. The defective PSI assembly causes severe photoinhibition and degradation of PSII.
Fusarium head blight (FHB), caused primarily by Fusarium graminearum, decreases grain yield and quality in wheat and barley. Disease severity, deoxynivalenol (DON), fungal biomass, and transcript accumulation were examined in a wheat near-isogenic line pair carrying either the resistant or susceptible allele for the chromosome 3BS FHB-resistance quantitative trait locus (Fhb1). Fhb1 restricts spread of disease symptoms but does not provide resistance to initial infection or initial DON accumulation. Wheat exhibits both induction and repression of large sets of gene transcripts during F. graminearum infection. In addition, a difference in the general timing of transcript accumulation in plants carrying either the resistant or susceptible allele at the Fhb1 locus was detected, and 14 wheat gene transcripts were detected that exhibited accumulation differences between the resistant and susceptible alleles. These results indicate that these may be host responses that differentiate the resistant from the susceptible interaction. Comparative analysis of the wheat-F. graminearum and the barley-F. graminearum interactions revealed a large set of conserved transcript accumulation patterns. However, we also detected gene transcripts that were repressed in wheat but not in barley. Based on the disease symptoms, transcript accumulation data, and comparative analysis of the barley and wheat host response to F. graminearum infection, we developed an integrated model for the interactions of wheat and barley with F. graminearum.
We have reported on high enzyme production by submerged culture of Aspergillus kawachii using barley with the husk (whole barley). To elucidate the mechanism underlying this high enzyme production, we performed a detailed analysis. Aspergillus oryzae RIB40 was submerged-cultured using whole barley and milled whole barley. Enzyme production was analyzed in terms of changes in medium components and gene expression levels. When whole barley was used, high production of glucoamylase and alpha-amylase and high gene expression levels of these enzymes were observed. Low ammonium concentrations were maintained with nitrate ion uptake continuing into the late stage using whole barley. These findings suggest that the sustainability of nitrogen metabolism is related to high enzyme production, and that a mechanism other than that associated with the conventional amylase expression system is involved in this relationship.
It is desirable to produce transgenic plants which have optimized and stable levels of transgene expression. Low levels of transgene expression may lead to an insufficient quantity of transgenic protein being produced for a particular purpose. This report demonstrates a means of enhancing transgene expression in barley beyond that conferred by the Ubi1 promoter, via the inclusion of an intron at a specific position within the transgene coding sequence. We independently cloned two different introns (RpoT-i4 from maize and UBQ10-i1 from Arabidopsis) into the same position within the firefly luciferase (luc) coding sequence. The constructs produced were transformed into barley (Hordeum vulgare) via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, and the resulting transformant populations (of between 119 and 123 independent plants for each construct) were assayed for luciferase activity. Both introns significantly increased luciferase activity, and a quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction assay revealed that the introns increased the accumulation of luciferase mRNA transcripts. The enhanced transgene expression levels were maintained in the T(1) and T(2) progenies. These findings show that intron-mediated enhancement is a valuable additional tool for achieving high and stable levels of transgene expression in crop plants.
Plant oil has become an important component in the search for a replacement for non-renewable energy sources, as well as being used for a wide range of industrial purposes, all in addition to its vital importance for human diet. Detailed knowledge of the lipid distribution in plants is fundamental for the understanding of local regulatory networks covering storage metabolism, and for the development of new approaches for plant breeding and transgenic research. We here review a measurement protocol or "tool" based on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which allows the non-invasive detection and quantitative visualization of lipid in living plant tissue. The method provides quantitative lipid maps with a resolution close to the cellular level and can be used on a wide range of plants and is applicable at the level of individual tissues, organs, or entire plants during ontogeny. Lipid imaging is designed for both biotechnology and basic science and can be combined with histological, biochemical, and gene expression analysis. Here we present the method as practiced in our group, and discuss unique advantages and limitations of the lipid-imaging tool. Seeds of barley and rapeseed were used as a model for visualization of local oil accumulation at the organ- and tissue-specific scale.
Plant cystatins are inhibitors of cysteine-proteases of the papain C1A and legumain C13 families. Cystatin data from multiple plant species have suggested that these inhibitors act as defense proteins against pests and pathogens and as regulators of protein turnover. In this study, we characterize the entire cystatin gene family from barley (Hordeum vulgare), which contain 13 nonredundant genes, and identify and characterize their target enzymes, the barley cathepsin L-like proteases. Cystatins and proteases were expressed and purified from Escherichia coli cultures. Each cystatin was found to have different inhibitory capability against barley cysteine-proteases in in vitro inhibitory assays using specific substrates. Real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed that inhibitors and enzymes present a wide variation in their messenger RNA expression patterns. Their transcripts were mainly detected in developing and germinating seeds, and some of them were also expressed in leaves and roots. Subcellular localization of cystatins and cathepsin L-like proteases fused to green fluorescent protein demonstrated the presence of both protein families throughout the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi complex. Proteases and cystatins not only colocalized but also interacted in vivo in the plant cell, as revealed by bimolecular fluorescence complementation. The functional relationship between cystatins and cathepsin L-like proteases was inferred from their common implication as counterparts of mobilization of storage proteins upon barley seed germination. The opposite pattern of transcription expression in gibberellin-treated aleurones presented by inhibitors and enzymes allowed proteases to specifically degrade B, C, and D hordeins stored in the endosperm of barley seeds.
*Here, we used barley (Hordeum vulgare) grown in normal and compartmented pots to investigate sensitivity to arsenic (As) in the absence of a positive growth response to arbuscular mycorrhizas (AM). *We tested the hypothesis that upon inoculation with AM fungi downregulation of HvPht1;1 and HvPht1;2 genes (encoding high-affinity inorganic orthophosphate (P(i))-uptake systems in a direct pathway via root epidermis and root hairs) and upregulation of the AM-induced HvPht1;8 (encoding the P(i)-uptake system responsible for transfer of P(i) from the symbiotic interface to cortical cells) play a role in decreased As uptake and hence reduced As sensitivity in AM plants. *Barley did not respond, or responded negatively to colonization by Glomus intraradices in terms of growth. In terms of specific phosphorus (P) uptake (P uptake per g of root) barley was nonresponsive. There was a significant interaction between As treatment and colonization, resulting in a lower As concentration and uptake in AM compared with nonmycorrhizal (NM) plants. *The decreased uptake of As and higher P : As molar ratios in the AM barley can be explained by the operation of the AM pathway as indicated by induction of HvPht1;8 and by down-regulation of HvPht1;1 and HvPht1;2.
Heterologous production of large multidomain proteins from higher plants is often cumbersome. Barley limit dextrinase (LD), a 98kDa multidomain starch and alpha-limit dextrin debranching enzyme, plays a major role in starch mobilization during seed germination and is possibly involved in starch biosynthesis by trimming of intermediate branched alpha-glucan structures. Highly active barley LD is obtained by secretory expression during high cell-density fermentation of Pichia pastoris. The LD encoding gene fragment without signal peptide was subcloned in-frame with the Saccharomyces cerevisiae alpha-factor secretion signal of the P. pastoris vector pPIC9K under control of the alcohol oxidase 1 promoter. Optimization of a fed-batch fermentation procedure enabled efficient production of LD in a 5-L bioreactor, which combined with affinity chromatography on beta-cyclodextrin-Sepharose followed by Hiload Superdex 200 gel filtration yielded 34 mg homogenous LD (84% recovery). The identity of the recombinant LD was verified by N-terminal sequencing and by mass spectrometric peptide mapping. A molecular mass of 98kDa was estimated by SDS-PAGE in excellent agreement with the theoretical value of 97419Da. Kinetic constants of LD catalyzed pullulan hydrolysis were found to K(m,app)=0.16+/-0.02 mg/mL and k(cat,app)=79+/-10s(-1) by fitting the uncompetitive substrate inhibition Michaelis-Menten equation, which reflects significant substrate inhibition and/or transglycosylation. The resulting catalytic coefficient, k(cat,app)/K(m,app)=488+/-23mL/(mgs) is 3.5-fold higher than for barley malt LD. Surface plasmon resonance analysis showed alpha-, beta-, and gamma-cyclodextrin binding to LD with K(d) of 27.2, 0.70, and 34.7 microM, respectively.
In recent years, virus-induced gene-silencing (VIGS) has shown to be a powerful reverse genetics tool for gene function study. In this paper, an effective and persistent virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) system was established with barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) for Haynaldia villosa. Examination of GFP gene expression showed that the BSMV vector moved systemically from leaf to leaf in inoculated H. villosa plants. This vector, expressing a cDNA fragment of phytoene desaturase (PDS), suppressed the transcript level of endogenous Hv-PDS gene as early as 6 days after inoculation, and caused photobleaching symptoms mainly on the newly developed upper leaves. Moreover, PDS gene silencing phenotype persisted through the whole growing period in H. villosa. With this established VIGS system, function analysis of a powdery mildew resistance related gene Hv-LRR was successfully performed. This is the first report that BSMV can be used for VIGS in a wild relative species of wheat. The established VIGS system will be a powerful reverse genetics tool for gene function study in H. villosa, an important genetic resource for wheat breeding.
Three spikelets are formed at each rachis node of the cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare ssp. vulgare) spike. In two-rowed barley, the central one is fertile and the two lateral ones are sterile, whereas in the six-rowed type, all three are fertile. This characteristic is determined by the allelic constitution at the six-rowed spike 1 (vrs1) locus on the long arm of chromosome 2H, with the recessive allele (vrs1) being responsible for the six-rowed phenotype. The Vrs1 (HvHox1) gene encodes a homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) transcription factor. Here, we show that the Vrs1 gene evolved in the Poaceae via a duplication, with a second copy of the gene, HvHox2, present on the short arm of chromosome 2H. Micro-collinearity and polypeptide sequences were both well conserved between HvHox2 and its Poaceae orthologs, but Vrs1 is unique to the barley tribe. The Vrs1 gene product lacks a motif which is conserved among the HvHox2 orthologs. A phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that Vrs1 and HvHox2 must have diverged after the separation of Brachypodium distachyon from the Pooideae and suggests that Vrs1 arose following the duplication of HvHox2, and acquired its new function during the evolution of the barley tribe. HvHox2 was expressed in all organs examined but Vrs1 was predominantly expressed in immature inflorescence.
Rice and barley are both members of Poaceae (grass family) but have a marked difference in salt tolerance. The molecular mechanism underlying this difference was previously unexplored. This study employs a comparative genomics approach to identify analogous and contrasting gene expression patterns between rice and barley. A hierarchical clustering approach identified several interesting expression trajectories among rice and barley genotypes. There were no major conserved expression patterns between the two species in response to salt stress. A wheat salt-stress dataset was queried for comparison with rice and barley. Roughly one-third of the salt-stress responses of barley were conserved with wheat while overlap between wheat and rice was minimal. These results demonstrate that, at transcriptome level, rice is strikingly different compared to the more closely related barley and wheat. This apparent lack of analogous transcriptional programs in response to salt stress is further highlighted through close examination of genes associated with root growth and development. The analysis provides support for the hypothesis that conservation of transcriptional signatures in response to environmental cues depends on the genetic similarity among the genotypes within a species, and on the phylogenetic distance between the species.
SUMMARY The Bipolaris sorokiniana tolerant 1 (bst1) barley mutant is derived from fast neutron-irradiated seeds of wild-type Bowman(Rph3). The induced mutation was genetically localized to a position on chromosome 5HL distal to the centromere using amplified fragment length polymorphism markers. In addition, the defence responses and related gene expression in the bst1 mutant after fungal challenge were compared with those occurring in wild-type plants. Hydrogen peroxide generation, determined by 3,3-diaminobenzidine staining, revealed a clearly reduced level of bst1, compared with the wild-type, during the entire experimental time: 8-120 h post-inoculation (hpi). At 48 hpi, the wild-type samples displayed twice as much fungal mass and three times greater H(2)O(2) production than bst1. At the same time, staining of B. sorokiniana showed less fungal growth in the spontaneous lesions of bst1 compared with the wild-type. Monitoring of defence-related genes at 48 hpi demonstrated strong expression of PR-1a, PR-2, PR-5 and PR-10 in bst1. A gene coding for a unique oxidoreductase enzyme, designated as HCP1, was expressed at much higher levels in inoculated leaves of the bst1 mutant than in those of the wild-type plant. Taken together, the results suggest that the defence to B. sorokiniana largely relies on salicylic acid-responsive pathogenesis-related (PR) genes, as well as selected reactive oxygen species and unknown HCP1-associated factors.
It is not known how the uptake and retention of the key osmolyte K(+) in cells are mediated in growing leaf tissue. In the present study on the growing leaf 3 of barley, we have cloned the full-length coding sequence of three genes which encode putative K(+) channels (HvAKT1, HvAKT2, HvKCO1/HvTPK1), and of one gene which encodes a putative K(+) transporter (HvHAK4). The functionality of the gene products of HvAKT1 and HvAKT2 was tested through expression in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Both are inward-rectifying K(+) channels which are inhibited by Cs(+). Function of HvAKT1 in oocytes requires co-expression of a calcineurin-interacting protein kinase (AtCIPK23) and a calcineurin B-like protein (AtCBL9) from Arabidopsis, showing cross-species complementation of function. In planta, HvAKT1 is expressed primarily in roots, but is also expressed in leaf tissue. HvAKT2 is expressed particularly in leaf tissue, and HvHAK4 is expressed particularly in growing leaf tissue. Within leaves, HvAKT1 and HvAKT2 are expressed predominantly in mesophyll. Expression of genes changes little in response to low external K(+) or salinity, despite major changes in K(+) concentrations and osmolality of cells. Possible contributions of HvAKT1, HvAKT2, HvKCO1 and HvHAK4 to regulation of K(+) relations of growing barley leaf cells are discussed.
In addition to drought and extreme temperatures, soil salinity represents a growing threat to crop productivity. Among the cereal crops, barley is considered as notably salt tolerant, and cultivars show considerable variation for tolerance towards salinity stress. In order to unravel the molecular mechanisms underlying salt stress tolerance and to utilize the natural genetic variation of barley accessions, a series of hydroponics-based salinity stress experiments was conducted using two genetic mapping parents, cvs Steptoe and Morex, which display contrasting levels of salinity tolerance. The proteome of roots from both genotypes was investigated as displayed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and comparisons were made between plants grown under non-saline and saline conditions. Multivariate analysis of the resulting protein patterns revealed cultivar-specific and salt stress-responsive protein expression. Mass spectrometry-based identification was successful for 26 out of 39 selected protein spots. Hierarchical clustering was applied to detect similar protein expression patterns. Among those, two proteins involved in the glutathione-based detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were more abundant in the tolerant genotype, while proteins involved in iron uptake were expressed at a higher level in the sensitive one. This study emphasizes the role of proteins involved in ROS detoxification during salinity stress, and identified potential candidates for increasing salt tolerance in barley.
P23k is a 23 kDa protein involved in sugar translocation in the scutellum of germinating barley seeds. The present study was carried out to provide the genomic characterization for P23k gene in terms of copy number, chromosome mapping, genetic mapping and expression analysis in germinating sculletum in two major Triticeae crops, barley and wheat, and their relatives. Southern blotting showed that a variable copy number with different restriction fragment sizes was found among 15 Hordeum accessions, while low copy number were found to be conserved in 23 Triticum and 3 Aegilops accessions. Genetic and physical mapping study identified that the P23k gene is duplicated in wild and cultivated barley on chromosomes 1H, 2H, and 3H, and further tandem duplication on chromosomes 1H and 3H. In contrast, the wheat P23k is located on chromosome 3A of durum wheat and at the distal portion of the long arms of 3A and 3D chromosomes of bread wheat. Northern blotting showed remarkably high accumulation of P23k transcript in the germinating scutellum in cultivated and wild barley, whereas very few or no accumulation was detected in diploid, tetraploid, and hexaploid wheat accessions. The present study suggests a simple scenario where the ancestral P23k is encoded on the distal portion of an ancestral chromosome of homoeologous chromosome 3. Beside of polyploidy, dispersed and tandem duplications could trigger generation of the P23k family in the Hordeum lineage, while an ancestral P23k has been conserved in homoeologous 3A and 3D chromosomes in the wheat lineage.
Diploid Hordeum bulbosum (a wild relative of cultivated barley) exhibits a two-locus self-incompatibility (SI) system gametophytically controlled by the unlinked multiallelic loci S and Z. This unique SI system is observed in the grasses (Poaceae) including the tribe Triticeae. This paper describes the identification and characterization of two F-box genes cosegregating with the S locus in H. bulbosum, named Hordeum S locus-linked F-box 1 (HSLF1) and HSLF2, which were derived from an S (3) haplotype-specific clone (HAS175) obtained by previous AMF (AFLP-based mRNA fingerprinting) analysis. Sequence analysis showed that both genes encode similar F-box proteins with a C-terminal leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domain, which are distinct from S locus (or S haplotype-specific) F-box protein (SLF/SFB), a class of F-box proteins identified as the pollen S determinant in S-RNase-based gametophytic SI systems. A number of homologous F-box genes with an LRR domain were found in the rice genome, although the functions of the gene family are unknown. One allele of the HSLF1 gene (HSLF1-S (3)) was expressed specifically in mature anthers, whereas no expression was detected from the other two alleles examined. Although the degree of sequence polymorphism among the three HSLF1 alleles was low, a frameshift mutation was found in one of the unexpressed alleles. The HSLF2 gene showed a low level of expression with no tissue specificity as well as little sequence polymorphism among the three alleles. The multiplicity of S locus-linked F-box genes is discussed in comparison with those found in the S-RNase-based SI system.
Boron (B) toxicity is common in many areas of the world. Plant tolerance to high B varies widely and has previously been attributed to reduced uptake of B, most commonly as a result of B efflux from roots. In this study, it is shown that the expression of genes encoding B efflux transporters in leaves of wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) is associated with an ability of leaf tissues to withstand higher concentrations of B. In tolerant cultivars, necrosis in leaves occurred at B concentrations more than 2-fold higher than in sensitive cultivars. It is hypothesized that this leaf tolerance is achieved via redistribution of B by efflux transporters from sensitive symplastic compartments into the leaf apoplast. Measurements of B concentrations in leaf protoplasts, and of B released following infiltration of leaves, support this hypothesis. It was also shown that under B-toxic conditions, leaching of B from leaves by rain had a strong positive effect on growth of both roots and shoots. Measurements of rates of guttation and the concentration of B in guttation droplets indicated that the impact of guttation on the alleviation of B toxicity would be small.
The tigrina (tig)-d.12 mutant of barley is impaired in the negative control limiting excess protochlorophyllide (Pchlide) accumulation in the dark. Upon illumination, Pchlide operates as photosensitizer and triggers singlet oxygen production and cell death. Here, we show that both Pchlide and singlet oxygen operate as signals that control gene expression and metabolite accumulation in tig-d.12 plants. In vivo labeling, Northern blotting, polysome profiling, and protein gel blot analyses revealed a selective suppression of synthesis of the small and large subunits of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RBCSs and RBCLs), the major light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b-binding protein of photosystem II (LHCB2), as well as other chlorophyll-binding proteins, in response to singlet oxygen. In part, these effects were caused by an arrest in translation initiation of photosynthetic transcripts at 80S cytoplasmic ribosomes. The observed changes in translation correlated with a decline in the phosphorylation level of ribosomal protein S6. At later stages, ribosome dissociation occurred. Together, our results identify translation as a major target of singlet oxygen-dependent growth control and cell death in higher plants.
In order to achieve direct fermentation of an optically pure D: -lactic acid from cellulosic materials, an endoglucanase from a Clostridium thermocellum (CelA)-secreting plasmid was introduced into an L: -lactate dehydrogenase gene (ldhL1)-deficient Lactobacillus plantarum (ldhL1) bacterial strain. CelA expression and its degradation of beta-glucan was confirmed by western blot analysis and enzyme assay, respectively. Although the CelA-secreting ldhL1 assimilated cellooligosaccharides up to cellohexaose (although not cellotetraose), the main end product was acetic acid, not lactic acid, due to the conversion of lactic acid to acetic acid. Cultivation under anaerobic conditions partially suppressed this conversion resulting in the production of 1.27 g/l of D: -lactic acid with a high optical purity of 99.5% from a medium containing 2 g/l of cellohexaose. Subsequently, D: -lactic acid fermentation from barley beta-glucan was carried out with the addition of Aspergillus aculeatus beta-glucosidase produced by recombinant Aspergillus oryzae and 1.47 g/l of D: -lactic was produced with a high optical purity of 99.7%. This is the first report of direct lactic acid fermentation from beta-glucan and a cellooligosaccharide that is a more highly polymerized sugar than cellotriose.
Gene expression microarrays allow rapid and easy quantification of transcript accumulation for almost transcripts present in a genome. This technology has been utilized for diverse investigations from studying gene regulation in response to genetic or environmental fluctuation to global expression QTL (eQTL) analyses of natural variation. Typical analysis techniques focus on responses of individual genes in isolation of other genes. However, emerging evidence indicates that genes are organized into regulons, i.e., they respond as groups due to individual transcription factors binding multiple promoters, creating what is commonly called a network. We have developed a set of statistical approaches that allow researchers to test specific network hypothesis using a priori-defined gene networks. When applied to Arabidopsis thaliana this approach has been able to identify natural genetic variation that controls networks. In this chapter we describe approaches to develop and test specific network hypothesis utilizing natural genetic variation. This approach can be expanded to facilitate direct tests of the relationship between phenotypic trait and transcript genetic architecture. Finally, the use of a priori network definitions can be applied to any microarray experiment to directly conduct hypothesis testing at a genomics level.
Silicon (Si) uptake has been extensively examined in rice (Oryza sativa), but it is poorly understood in other gramineous crops. We identified Low Silicon Rice 2 (Lsi2)-like Si efflux transporters from two important gramineous crops: maize (Zea mays) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). Both maize and barley Lsi2 expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes showed Si efflux transport activity. Furthermore, barley Lsi2 was able to recover Si uptake in a rice mutant defective in Si efflux. Maize and barley Lsi2 were only expressed in the roots. Expression of maize and barley Lsi2 was downregulated in response to exogenously applied Si. Moreover, there was a significant positive correlation between the ability of roots to absorb Si and the expression levels of Lsi2 in eight barley cultivars, suggesting that Lsi2 is a key Si transporter in barley. Immunostaining showed that maize and barley Lsi2 localized only at the endodermis, with no polarity. Protein gel blot analysis indicated that maize and barley Lsi2 localized on the plasma membrane. The unique features of maize and barley Si influx and efflux transporters, including their cell-type specificity and the lack of polarity of their localization in Lsi2, indicate that these crops have a different Si uptake system from that in rice.
Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) spreads from cell to cell through the coordinated actions of three triple gene block (TGB) proteins (TGB1, TGB2, and TGB3) arranged in overlapping open reading frames (ORFs). Our previous studies (D. M. Lawrence and A. O. Jackson, J. Virol. 75:8712-8723, 2001; D. M. Lawrence and A. O. Jackson, Mol. Plant Pathol. 2:65-75, 2001) have shown that each of these proteins is required for cell-to-cell movement in monocot and dicot hosts. We recently found (H.-S. Lim, J. N. Bragg, U. Ganesan, D. M. Lawrence, J. Yu, M. Isogai, J. Hammond, and A. O. Jackson, J. Virol. 82:4991-5006, 2008) that TGB1 engages in homologous interactions leading to the formation of a ribonucleoprotein complex containing viral genomic and messenger RNAs, and we have also demonstrated that TGB3 functions in heterologous interactions with TGB1 and TGB2. We have now used Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated protein expression in Nicotiana benthamiana leaf cells and site-specific mutagenesis to determine how TGB protein interactions influence their subcellular localization and virus spread. Confocal microscopy revealed that the TGB3 protein localizes at the cell wall (CW) in close association with plasmodesmata and that the deletion or mutagenesis of a single amino acid at the immediate C terminus can affect CW targeting. TGB3 also directed the localization of TGB2 from the endoplasmic reticulum to the CW, and this targeting was shown to be dependent on interactions between the TGB2 and TGB3 proteins. The optimal localization of the TGB1 protein at the CW also required TGB2 and TGB3 interactions, but in this context, site-specific TGB1 helicase motif mutants varied in their localization patterns. The results suggest that the ability of TGB1 to engage in homologous binding interactions is not essential for targeting to the CW. However, the relative expression levels of TGB2 and TGB3 influenced the cytosolic and CW distributions of TGB1 and TGB2. Moreover, in both cases, localization at the CW was optimal at the 10:1 TGB2-to-TGB3 ratios occurring in virus infections, and mutations reducing CW localization had corresponding effects on BSMV movement phenotypes. These data support a model whereby TGB protein interactions function in the subcellular targeting of movement protein complexes and the ability of BSMV to move from cell to cell.
Drought tolerance is a key trait for increasing and stabilizing barley productivity in dry areas worldwide. Identification of the genes responsible for drought tolerance in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) will facilitate understanding of the molecular mechanisms of drought tolerance, and also facilitate the genetic improvement of barley through marker-assisted selection or gene transformation. To monitor the changes in gene expression at the transcriptional level in barley leaves during the reproductive stage under drought conditions, the 22K Affymetrix Barley 1 microarray was used to screen two drought-tolerant barley genotypes, Martin and Hordeum spontaneum 41-1 (HS41-1), and one drought-sensitive genotype Moroc9-75. Seventeen genes were expressed exclusively in the two drought-tolerant genotypes under drought stress, and their encoded proteins may play significant roles in enhancing drought tolerance through controlling stomatal closure via carbon metabolism (NADP malic enzyme, NADP-ME, and pyruvate dehydrogenase, PDH), synthesizing the osmoprotectant glycine-betaine (C-4 sterol methyl oxidase, CSMO), generating protectants against reactive-oxygen-species scavenging (aldehyde dehydrogenase,ALDH, ascorbate-dependent oxidoreductase, ADOR), and stabilizing membranes and proteins (heat-shock protein 17.8, HSP17.8, and dehydrin 3, DHN3). Moreover, 17 genes were abundantly expressed in Martin and HS41-1 compared with Moroc9-75 under both drought and control conditions. These genes were possibly constitutively expressed in drought-tolerant genotypes. Among them, seven known annotated genes might enhance drought tolerance through signalling [such as calcium-dependent protein kinase (CDPK) and membrane steroid binding protein (MSBP)], anti-senescence (G2 pea dark accumulated protein, GDA2), and detoxification (glutathione S-transferase, GST) pathways. In addition, 18 genes, including those encoding Delta(l)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS), protein phosphatase 2C-like protein (PP2C), and several chaperones, were differentially expressed in all genotypes under drought; thus they were more likely to be general drought-responsive genes in barley. These results could provide new insights into further understanding of drought-tolerance mechanisms in barley.
Barley and particularly wheat are two grass species of immense agricultural importance. In spite of polyploidization events within the latter, studies have shown that genotypically and phenotypically these species are very closely related and, indeed, fertile hybrids can be created by interbreeding. The advent of two genome-scale Affymetrix GeneChips now allows studies of the comparison of their transcriptomes. We have used the Wheat GeneChip to create a "gene expression atlas" for the wheat transcriptome (cv. Chinese Spring). For this, we chose mRNA from a range of tissues and developmental stages closely mirroring a comparable study carried out for barley (cv. Morex) using the Barley1 GeneChip. This, together with large-scale clustering of the probesets from the two GeneChips into "homologous groups", has allowed us to perform a genomic-scale comparative study of expression patterns in these two species. We explore the influence of the polyploidy of wheat on the results obtained with the Wheat GeneChip and quantify the correlation between conservation in gene sequence and gene expression in wheat and barley. In addition, we show how the conservation of expression patterns can be used to elucidate, probeset by probeset, the reliability of the Wheat GeneChip. While there are many differences in expression on the level of individual genes and tissues, we demonstrate that the wheat and barley transcriptomes appear highly correlated. This finding is significant not only because given small evolutionary distance between the two species it is widely expected, but also because it demonstrates that it is possible to use the two GeneChips for comparative studies. This is the case even though their probeset composition reflects rather different design principles as well as, of course, the present incomplete knowledge of the gene content of the two species. We also show that, in general, the Wheat GeneChip is not able to distinguish contributions from individual homoeologs. Furthermore, the comparison between the two species leads us to conclude that the conservation of both gene sequence as well as gene expression is positively correlated with absolute expression levels, presumably reflecting increased selection pressure on genes coding for proteins present at high levels. In addition, the results indicate the presence of a correlation between sequence and expression conservation within the Triticeae.
We investigated the pigment composition and the transcriptome of albina (alb-e ( 16 ) and alb-f ( 17 )) and xantha (xan-s ( 46 ) and xan-b ( 12 )) barley mutants to provide an overall transcriptional picture of genes whose expression is interconnected with chloroplast activities and to search for candidate genes associated with the mutations. Beside those encoding plastid-localized proteins, more than 3,000 genes involved in non-chloroplast localized metabolism were up-/down-regulated in the mutants revealing the network of chloroplast-dependent metabolic pathways. The alb-e ( 16 ) mutant was characterized by overaccumulation of protoporphyrin IX upon ALA (5-amino levulinic acid) feeding and down-regulation of the gene encoding one subunit of Mg-chelatase, suggesting a block of the chlorophyll biosynthetic pathway before Mg-protoporphyrin IX biosynthesis, while alb-f ( 17 ) overaccumulated Mg-protoporphyrin IX and repressed PorA expression, without alterations in Mg-chelatase mRNA level. The alb-f ( 17 )mutant also showed overexpression of several genes involved in phytochrome and in phytochrome-dependent pathways. The results indicate that the down-regulation of Lhcb genes in alb-e ( 16 ) cannot be mediated by the accumulation of Mg-protoporphyrin IX. After ALA treatment, xan-s ( 46 ) showed overaccumulation of Mg-protoporphyrin IX, while the relative porphyrin composition of xan-b ( 12 ) was similar to wild type. The transcripts encoding the components of several mitochondrial metabolic pathways were up-regulated in albina/xantha leaves to compensate for the absence of active chloroplasts. The mRNAs encoding gun3, gun4, and gun5 barley homologous genes showed significant expression variations and were used to search for co-expressed genes across all samples. These analyses provide additional evidences on a chloroplast-dependent covariation of large sets of nuclear genes.
Boron (B) enters cells as the uncharged boric acid, a small neutral molecule with sufficient lipid solubility to cross cell membranes without the aid of transport proteins. The extent to which the observed uptake rates for B in plants can be explained by this simple physical process was examined by applying treatments expected to inhibit the membrane transporters most likely to be involved in B transport. These experiments established that at least 50% of B uptake could be facilitated by transporters. The B transport characteristics of two barley aquaglyceroporins, HvPIP1;3 and HvPIP1;4, were investigated using yeast complementation assays. Expression of both genes in yeast resulted in increased B sensitivity. Transport assays in yeast confirmed that HvPIP1;3 and HvPIP1;4 are both capable of transporting B. The physiological role of these HvPIP1 genes in B transport is uncertain since their expression was not responsive to B nutritional status, and they continued to be expressed under toxicity conditions.
Roots of some gramineous plants secrete phytosiderophores in response to iron deficiency and take up Fe as a ferric-phytosiderophore complex through the transporter YS1 (Yellow Stripe 1). Here, this transporter in maize (ZmYS1) and barley (HvYS1) was further characterized and compared in terms of expression pattern, diurnal change, and tissue-type specificity of localization. The expression of HvYS1 was specifically induced by Fe deficiency only in barley roots, and increased with the progress of Fe deficiency, whereas ZmYS1 was expressed in maize in the leaf blades and sheaths, crown, and seminal roots, but not in the hypocotyl. HvYS1 expression was not induced by any other metal deficiency. Furthermore, in maize leaf blades, the expression was higher in the young leaf blades showing severe chlorosis than in the old leaf blades showing no chlorosis. The expression of HvYS1 showed a distinct diurnal rhythm, reaching a maximum before the onset of phytosiderophore secretion. In contrast, ZmYS1 did not show such a rhythm in expression. Immunostaining showed that ZmYS1 was localized in the epidermal cells of both crown and lateral roots, with a polar localization at the distal side of the epidermal cells. In maize leaves, ZmYS1 was localized in mesophyll cells, but not epidermal cells. These differences in gene expression pattern and tissue-type specificity of localization suggest that HvYS1 is only involved in primary Fe acquisition by barley roots, whereas ZmYS1 is involved in both primary Fe acquisition and intracellular transport of iron and other metals in maize.
In the present study, we investigated the alteration of reactive oxygen species production along the longitudinal axis of barley root tips during Cd treatment. In unstressed barley root tips, H(2)O(2) production decreased from the root apex towards the differentiation zone where again, a slight increase was observed towards the more mature region of root. An opposite pattern was observed for O(2)(*-) and OH(*) generation. The amount of both O(2)(*-) and OH(*) was highest in the elongation zone, decreased in the root apex and at the differentiation zone of root, then increased again towards the more mature region of root. An elevated Cd-induced O(2)(*-) production started in the elongation zone and increased further along the differentiation zone of barley root tip. In contrast, Cd-induced H(2)O(2) production was localised to the root elongation zone and to the beginning of the differentiation zone. In contrast to Cd-induced H(2)O(2) and O(2)(*-) production, Cd reduced OH(*) production along the whole barley root tip. Our results suggest that not only an increase but also the spatial distribution of reactive oxygen species production is involved in the Cd-induced stress response of barley root tip.
The effects of exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) and polyethylene glycol (PEG 6000) treatments on grain H(2)O(2), ABA and beta-amylase activity were studied during grain development in the spike culture experiments with variety Triumph and its ABA-insensitive mutant TL43 as the plant materials. The results showed that during grain development the two genotypes were similar in the pattern of ABA concentration change, but differed greatly in the pattern of H(2)O(2) concentration and beta-amylase activity changes. The beta-amylase activity was positively correlated with H(2)O(2) concentration, negatively correlated with ABA concentration, and it is mainly closely associated with continued high levels of ABA with respect to H(2)O(2). Water stress (PEG treatment) induced beta-amylase was associated with H(2)O(2) concentration but not with ABA concentration. Exogenous application of H(2)O(2) and Ascorbic acid (AsA) increased beta-amylase activity in Triumph but reduced that of TL43. However, the endogenous H(2)O(2) concentration in grains was always consistent with beta-amylase activity. A novel model was hypothesized from the current results to illustrate the relationship between H(2)O(2), ABA and beta-amylase synthesis for the barley exposed to abiotic stresses.
The gene HvNHX3 encoding a new isoform of vacuolar Na+/H+-antiporter was identified in barley. This gene is expressed in roots and leaves of barley seedlings, and it encodes a protein consisting of 541 amino acid residues with predicted molecular weight 59.7 kDa. It was found that by its amino acid sequence HvNHX3 is closest to the Na+/H+-antiporter HbNHX1 of wild type from Hordeum brevisibulatum that grows on salt-marsh (solonchak) soils (95% homology). The expression of HvNHX3 during salt stress is increased several-fold in roots and leaves of barley seedlings. At the same time, the amount of HvNHX3 protein in roots does not change, but in leaves it increases significantly. It was shown using HvNHX3 immunolocalization in roots that this protein is present in all tissues, but in control plants it was clustered and in experimental plants after salt stress it was visualized as small granules. It has been proposed that HvNHX3 is converted into active form during declusterization. The conversion of HvNHX3 into its active form along with its quantitative increase in leaves during salt stress activates Na+/H+-exchange across the vacuolar membrane and Na+ release from cytoplasm, and, as a consequence, an increase of salt stress tolerance.
To study stability and inheritance of two different transgenes in barley, we crossed a homozygous T(8) plant, having uidA (or gus) driven by the barley endosperm-specific B(1)-hordein promoter (localized in the near centromeric region of chromosome 7H) with a second homozygous T(4) plant, having sgfp(S65T) driven by the barley endosperm-specific D-hordein promoter (localized on the subtelomeric region of chromosome 2H). Both lines stably expressed the two transgenes in the generations prior to the cross. Three independently crossed F(1) progeny were analyzed by PCR for both uidA and sgfp(S65T) in each plant and functional expression of GUS and GFP in F(2) seeds followed a 3:1 Mendelian segregation ratio and transgenes were localized by FISH to the same location as in the parental plants. FISH was used to screen F(2) plants for homozygosity of both transgenes; four homozygous plants were identified from the two crossed lines tested. FISH results showing presence of transgenes were consistent with segregation ratios of expression of both transgenes, indicating that the two transgenes were expressed without transgene silencing in homozygous progeny advanced to the F(3) and F(4) generations. Thus, even after crossing independently transformed, homozygous parental plants containing a single, stably expressed transgene, progeny were obtained that continued to express multiple transgenes through generation advance. Such stability of transgenes, following outcrossing, is an important attribute for trait modification and for gene flow studies.
The TaPR60 gene from bread wheat encodes a small cysteine-rich protein with a hydrophobic signal peptide, predicted to direct the TaPR60 protein to a secretory pathway. It was demonstrated by heterologous expression of recombinant TaPR60 protein that the signal peptide is recognized and cleaved in yeast cells. The full-length gene including promoter sequence of a TaPR60 orthologue was cloned from a BAC library of Triticum durum. A transcriptional promoter-GUS fusion was stably transformed into wheat, barley and rice. The strongest GUS expression in wheat and barley was found in the endosperm transfer cells, while in rice the promoter was active inside the starchy endosperm during the early stages of grain filling. The TaPR60 gene was also used as bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen. Five proteins were identified in the screen, and for some of these prey proteins, the interaction was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation. The signal peptide binding proteins, TaUbiL1 and TaUbiL2, are homologues of animal proteins, which belong to proteolytic complexes, and therefore may be responsible for TaPR60 processing or degradation of the signal peptide. Other proteins that interact with TaPR60 may have a function in TaPR60 secretion or regulation of this process. Examination of a three dimensional model of TaPR60 suggested that this protein could be involved in binding of lipidic molecules.
Eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF) 4B is known to interact with multiple initiation factors, mRNA, rRNA, and poly(A) binding protein (PABP). To gain a better understanding of the function of eIF4B, the two isoforms from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) were expressed and analyzed using biophysical and biochemical methods. Plant eIF4B was found by ultracentrifugation and light scattering analysis to most likely be a monomer with an extended structure. An extended structure would facilitate the multiple interactions of eIF4B with mRNA as well as other initiation factors (eIF4A, eIF4G, PABP, and eIF3). Eight mRNAs, barley (Hordeum vulgare) alpha-amylase mRNA, rabbit beta-hemoglobin mRNA, Arabidopsis heat shock protein 21 (HSP21) mRNA, oat (Avena sativa) globulin, wheat (Triticum aestivum) germin, maize (Zea mays) alcohol dehydrogenase, satellite tobacco necrosis virus RNA, and alfalfa mosaic virus (AMV) 4, were used in wheat germ in vitro translation assays to measure their dependence on eIF4B and eIF4F isoforms. The two Arabidopsis eIF4B isoforms, as well as native and recombinant wheat eIF4B, showed similar responses in the translation assay. AMV RNA 4 and Arabidopsis HSP21 showed only a slight dependence on the presence of eIF4B isoforms, whereas rabbit beta-hemoglobin mRNA and wheat germin mRNA showed modest dependence. Barley alpha-amylase, oat globulin, and satellite tobacco necrosis virus RNA displayed the strongest dependence on eIF4B. These results suggest that eIF4B has some effects on mRNA discrimination during initiation of translation. Barley alpha-amylase, oat globulin, and rabbit beta-hemoglobin mRNA showed the highest activity with eIF4F, whereas Arabidopsis HSP21 and AMV RNA 4 used both eIF4F and eIF(iso)4F equally well. These results suggest that differential or optimal translation of mRNAs may require initiation complexes composed of specific isoforms of initiation factor gene products. Thus, individual mRNAs or classes of mRNAs may respond to the relative abundance of a particular initiation factor(s), which in turn may affect the amount of protein translated. It is likely that optimal multifactor initiation complexes exist that allow for optimal translation of mRNAs under a variety of cellular conditions.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), genetically modified with the Al(3+) resistance gene of wheat (TaALMT1), was compared with a non-transformed sibling line when grown on an acidic and highly phosphate-fixing ferrosol supplied with a range of phosphorus concentrations. In short-term pot trials (26 days), transgenic barley expressing TaALMT1 (GP-ALMT1) was more efficient than a non-transformed sibling line (GP) at taking up phosphorus on acid soil, but the genotypes did not differ when the soil was limed. Differences in phosphorus uptake efficiency on acid soil could be attributed not only to the differential effects of aluminium toxicity on root growth between the genotypes, but also to differences in phosphorus uptake per unit root length. Although GP-ALMT1 out-performed GP on acid soil, it was still not as efficient at taking up phosphorus as plants grown on limed soil. GP-ALMT1 plants grown in acid soil possessed substantially smaller rhizosheaths than those grown in limed soil, suggesting that root hairs were shorter. This is a probable reason for the lower phosphorus uptake efficiency. When grown to maturity in large pots, GP-ALMT1 plants produced more than twice the grain as GP plants grown on acid soil and 80% of the grain produced by limed controls. Expression of TaALMT1 in barley was not associated with a penalty in either total shoot or grain production in the absence of Al(3+), with both genotypes showing equivalent yields in limed soil. These findings demonstrate that an important crop species can be genetically engineered to successfully increase grain production on an acid soil.
The APETALA2-like genes form a large multi-gene family of transcription factors which play an important role during the plant life cycle, being key regulators of many developmental processes. Many studies in Arabidopsis have revealed that the APETALA2 (AP2) gene is implicated in the establishment of floral meristem and floral organ identity as well as temporal and spatial regulation of flower homeotic gene expression. In this work, we have cloned and characterised the AP2-like gene from accessions of Hordeum chilense and Hordeum vulgare, wild and domesticated barley, respectively, and compared with other AP2 homoeologous genes, including the Q gene in wheat. The Hordeum AP2-like genes contain two plant-specific DNA binding motifs called AP2 domains, as does the Q gene of wheat. We confirm that the H. chilense AP2-like gene is located on chromosome 5Hch. Patterns of expression of the AP2-like genes were examined in floral organs and other tissues in barley, wheat and in tritordeum amphiploids (barley x wheat hybrids). In tritordeum amphiploids, the level of transcription of the barley AP2-like gene was lower than in its barley parental and the chromosome substitutions 1D/1Hch and 2D/2Hch were seen to modify AP2 gene expression levels. The results are of interest in order to understand the role of the AP2-like gene in the spike morphology of barley and wheat, and to understand the regulation of this gene in the amphiploids obtained from barley-wheat crossing. This information may have application in cereal breeding programs to up- or down-regulate the expression of AP2-like genes in order to modify spike characteristics and to obtain free-threshing plants.
Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DGE) in conjunction with mass spectrometry was utilized to unravel the changes in embryo proteins of geminating rice seeds. For this purpose, the embryos were dissected at 1 and 2 days after imbibition and germination of mature dry seeds. Proteins were extracted and their expression patterns were analyzed by large-format 2-DGE. A total of 642 silver nitrate stained protein spots were detected on 2-D gels, subjected to image analysis using the ImageMaster 6.0 2D Platinum software, resulting in the identification of 109 differentially expressed protein spots compared with imbibed seeds. MALDI-TOF-MS analysis resulted in the identification of 60 proteins, including 6 redundant and 54 nonredundant proteins. The identified proteins were classified according to their functional groups: metabolism (15 spots), oxygen-detoxifying (11 spots), protein processing/degradation (8 spots), stress/defense (5 spots), and energy (3 spots). Northern blot analysis demonstrated a good correlation between the mRNA expression profile and 2-DGE results for 27 proteins. Furthermore, Western blot analysis was used to confirm the high expression patterns of ascorbate peroxidase b (OsAPxb, spot 12/13) and l-ascorbate peroxidase 1 (OsAPx1, spot 17/27) in the embryo as compared with the endosperm of dry seeds. Present results suggest that seed germination is related with multiple regulations of functional proteins. For example, proteins related to metabolism (i.e., glycolysis and TCA cycle) are essential for the energy supply. On the other hand, oxygen-detoxifying proteins and stress/defense related proteins may take part in an important role in adaptation to environmental conditions during seed germination.
Epigenetic phenomena have been associated with modifications of chromatin structure. These are achieved, in part, by histone post-translational modifications including acetylations and deacetylations, the later being catalyzed by histone deacetylaces (HDACs). Eukaryotic HDACs are grouped into three major families, RPD3/HDA1, SIR2 and the plant-specific HD2. HDAC genes have been analyzed from model plants such as Arabidopsis, rice and maize and have been shown to be involved in various cellular processes including seed development, vegetative and reproductive growth and responses to abiotic and biotic stress, but reports on HDACs from other crops are limited. In this work two full-length cDNAs (HvHDAC2-1 and HvHDAC2-2) encoding two members of the plant-specific HD2 family, respectively, were isolated and characterized from barley (Hordeum vulgare), an agronomically important cereal crop. HvHDAC2-1 and HvHDAC2-2 were mapped on barley chromosomes 1H and 3H, respectively, which could prove useful in developing markers for marker-assisted selection in breeding programs. Expression analysis of the barley HD2 genes demonstrated that they are expressed in all tissues and seed developmental stages examined. Significant differences were observed among tissues and seed stages, and between cultivars with varying seed size, suggesting an association of these genes with seed development. Furthermore, the HD2 genes from barley were found to respond to treatments with plant stress-related hormones such as jasmonic acid (JA), abscisic acid (ABA) and salicylic acid (SA) implying an association of these genes with plant resistance to biotic and abiotic stress. The expression pattern of HD2 genes suggests a possible role for these genes in the epigenetic regulation of seed development and stress response.
The mechanisms by which biotrophic and hemi-biotrophic fungal pathogens simultaneously subdue plant defences and sequester host nutrients are poorly understood. Using metabolite fingerprinting, we show that Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, dynamically re-programmes host metabolism during plant colonization. Identical patterns of metabolic change occurred during M. grisea infections in barley, rice and Brachypodium distachyon. Targeted metabolite profiling by GC-MS confirmed the modulation of a conserved set of metabolites. In pre-symptomatic tissues, malate and polyamines accumulated, rather than being utilized to generate defensive reactive oxygen species, and the levels of metabolites associated with amelioration of redox stress in various cellular compartments increased dramatically. The activity of NADP-malic enzyme and generation of reactive oxygen species were localized to pathogen penetration sites, and both appeared to be suppressed in compatible interactions. Early diversion of the shikimate pathway to produce quinate was observed, as well as accumulation of non-polymerized lignin precursors. These data are consistent with modulation of defensive phenylpropanoid metabolism by M. grisea and the inability of susceptible hosts to mount a hypersensitive reaction or produce lignified papillae (both involving reactive oxygen species) to restrict pathogen invasion. Rapid proliferation of M. grisea hyphae in plant tissue after 3 days was associated with accelerated nutrient acquisition and utilization by the pathogen. Conversion of photoassimilate into mannitol and glycerol for carbon sequestration and osmolyte production appear to drive hyphal growth. Taken together, our results suggest that fungal pathogens deploy a common metabolic re-programming strategy in diverse host species to suppress plant defence and colonize plant tissue.
The tightly bound to DNA proteins (TBPs) is a protein group that remains attached to DNA with covalent or non-covalent bonds after its deproteinisation. The functional role of this group is as yet not completely understood. The main goal of this study was to evaluate tissue specific changes in the TBP distribution in barley genes and chromosomes in different phases of shoot and seed development. We have: 1. investigated the TBP distribution along Amy32b and Bmy1 genes encoding low pI alpha-amylase A and endosperm specific beta-amylase correspondingly using oligonucleotide DNA arrays; 2. characterized the polypeptide spectrum of TBP and proteins with affinity to TBP-associated DNA; 3. localized the distribution of DNA complexes with TBP (TBP-DNA) on barley 1H and 7H chromosomes using mapped markers; 4. compared the chromosomal distribution of TBP-DNA complexes to the distribution of the nuclear matrix attachment sites. In the Amy32b gene transition from watery ripe to the milky ripeness stage of seed development was followed by the decrease of TBP binding along the whole gene, especially in the promoter region and intron II. Expression of the Bmy1 gene coupled to ripening was followed by release of the exon III and intron III sequences from complexes with TBPs. Marker analysis revealed changes in the association of chromosome 1H and 7H sites with TBPs between first leaf and coleoptile and at Zadoks 07 and Zadoks 10 stages of barley shoot development. Tight DNA-protein complexes of the nuclear matrix and those detected by NPC-chromatography were revealed as also involved in tissue- and development-dependent transitions, however, in sites different from TBP-DNA interactions. The spectrum of TBPs appeared to be organ and developmental-stage specific. Development of the first leaf and root system (from Zadoks 07 to Zadoks 10 stage) was shown as followed by a drastic increase in the TBP number in contrast to coleoptile, where the TBPs spectrum became poor during senescence. It was demonstrated that a nuclear protein of low molecular weight similar to the described TBPs possessed a high affinity to the DNA involved in TBP-DNA complexes. Plant development is followed by redistribution of TBP along individual genes and chromosomes.
In plants, the C-repeat binding factors (Cbfs) are believed to regulate low-temperature (LT) tolerance. However, most functional studies of Cbfs have focused on characterizing expression after an LT shock and have not quantified differences associated with variable temperature induction or the rate of response to LT treatment. In the Triticeae, rye (Secale cereale L.) is one of the most LT-tolerant species, and is an excellent model to study and compare Cbf LT induction and expression profiles. Here, we report the isolation of rye Cbf genes (ScCbfs) and compare their expression levels in spring- and winter-habit rye cultivars and their orthologs in two winter-habit wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivars. Eleven ScCbfs were isolated spanning all four major phylogenetic groups. Nine of the ScCbfs mapped to 5RL and one to chromosome 2R. Cbf expression levels were variable, with stronger expression in winter- versus spring-habit rye cultivars but no clear relationship with cultivar differences in LT, down-stream cold-regulated gene expression and Cbf expression were detected. Some Cbfs were expressed only at warmer acclimation temperatures in all three species and their expression was repressed at the end of an 8-h dark period at warmer temperatures, which may reflect a temperature-dependent, light-regulated diurnal response. Our work indicates that Cbf expression is regulated by complex genotype by time by induction-temperature interactions, emphasizing that sample timing, induction-temperature and light-related factors must receive greater consideration in future studies involving functional characterization of LT-induced genes in cereals.
High-density short oligonucleotide microarrays are useful tools for studying biodiversity, because they can be used to investigate both nucleotide and expression polymorphisms. However, when different strains (or species) produce different signal intensities after mRNA hybridization, it is not easy to determine whether the signal intensities were affected by nucleotide or expression polymorphisms. To overcome this difficulty, nucleotide and expression polymorphisms are currently examined separately. We have developed SNEP, a new method that allows simultaneous detection of both nucleotide and expression polymorphisms. SNEP involves a robust statistical procedure based on the idea that a nucleotide polymorphism observed at the probe level can be regarded as an outlier, because the nucleotide polymorphism can reduce the hybridization signal intensity. To investigate the performance of SNEP, we used three species: barley, rice and mice. In addition to the publicly available barley data, we obtained new rice and mouse data from the strains with available genome sequences. The sensitivity and false positive rate of nucleotide polymorphism detection were estimated based on the sequence information. The robustness of expression polymorphism detection against nucleotide polymorphisms was also investigated. SNEP performed well regardless of the genome size and showed a better performance for nucleotide polymorphism detection, when compared with other previously proposed methods. The R-software 'SNEP' is available at http://www.ism.ac.jp/~fujisawa/SNEP/.
Prolonged exposure to low temperatures (vernalization) accelerates the transition to reproductive growth in many plant species, including the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana and the economically important cereal crops, wheat and barley. Vernalization-induced flowering is an epigenetic phenomenon. In Arabidopsis, stable down-regulation of FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC) by vernalization is associated with changes in histone modifications at FLC chromatin. In cereals, the vernalization response is mediated by stable induction of the floral promoter VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1), which initiates reproductive development at the shoot apex. We show that in barley (Hordeum vulgare), repression of HvVRN1 before vernalization is associated with high levels of histone 3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) at HvVRN1 chromatin. Vernalization caused increased levels of histone 3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) and a loss of H3K27me3 at HvVRN1, suggesting that vernalization promotes an active chromatin state at VRN1. Levels of these histone modifications at 2 other flowering-time genes, VERNALIZATION2 and FLOWERING LOCUS T, were not altered by vernalization. Our study suggests that maintenance of an active chromatin state at VRN1 is likely to be the basis for epigenetic memory of vernalization in cereals. Thus, regulation of chromatin state is a feature of epigenetic memory of vernalization in Arabidopsis and the cereals; however, whereas vernalization-induced flowering in Arabidopsis is mediated by epigenetic regulation of the floral repressor FLC, this phenomenon in cereals is mediated by epigenetic regulation of the floral activator, VRN1.
The nucellar projection (NP)/endosperm transfer cell (ETC) complex represents the link between maternal and filial seed tissues in barley and mediates nutrient transfer into the endosperm. Cells of NP function as metabolic interface to precondition amino acid supply of the endosperm. The organ displays a top-down gradient of differentiation, with mitotically active, differentiating/elongating as well as disintegrating cells, characterized by proteolysis and nitrogen remobilization. To understand metabolism, interconversion and transfer of amino acids at the maternal-filial boundary, we applied a combined transcriptome and metabolite approach based on laser-assisted microdissection. Results suggest that amino acid degradation observed in NP largely occurs within mitochondria, consistent with their role in controlling amino acid homeostasis and metabolism. Differentially expressed genes and free amino acid levels associated with glutamate and glutamine metabolism indicate concerted action of glutamine dehydrogenase, glutamine synthetase and alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase 2 within a hypothetical cycle for glutamine and alanine degradation and re-synthesis of the preferred transport form glutamine. Stimulation of gene expression involved in methionine metabolism in NP suggests a pathway of regulated synthesis of S-methylmethionine and a possible mechanism for the transfer of reduced sulphur from maternal tissues into the endosperm. Thus, the established micromethods revealed strategies in NP of young barley grains for mobilization and metabolism of transient N and S reserves and transfer into the endosperm.
Callose consists mostly of (1,3)-beta-D-glucan and is synthesised in many plant tissues during growth and development, where it is believed to play a fundamental role in cell plate formation during cell division. Callose deposition also represents an important response to pathogen attack, wounding and to various abiotic stresses. Here, the transcription patterns of members of the callose synthase gene family from barley (Hordeum vulgare) were defined. Thus, fragments of six barley (1,3)-beta-D-glucan synthase-like (GSL) cDNAs were obtained by PCR amplification using primers designed to barley expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences. The HvGSL genes, designated HvGSL2 to HvGSL7, were mapped to individual loci that were distributed across the barley genome on chromosomes 3H, 4H, 6H and 7H. The HvGSL1 gene has been isolated and characterised previously. Transcript levels for all the genes were analysed by quantitative real-time PCR in a range of barley tissues and organs, at various developmental stages. High levels of transcript for many of the HvGSL genes were detected in endosperm during the early stages of grain development, when cellularisation of the endosperm was occurring and it is likely that many of the genes participate in this process. Transcripts of HvGSL1 and HvGSL5 mRNAs were significantly more abundant than other GSL mRNAs in the roots of young seedlings, while HvGSL7 mRNA was detected at relatively high levels along the length of two week old shoots.
Activity of the VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1) gene is required for flowering in temperate cereals such as wheat and barley. In varieties that require prolonged exposure to cold to flower (vernalization), VRN1 is expressed at low levels and is induced by vernalization to trigger flowering. In other varieties, deletions or insertions in the first intron of the VRN1 gene are associated with increased VRN1 expression in the absence of cold treatment, reducing or eliminating the requirement for vernalization. To characterize natural variation in VRN1, the first intron of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) VRN1 gene (HvVRN1) was assayed for deletions or insertions in a collection of 1,000 barleys from diverse geographical regions. Ten alleles of HvVRN1 containing deletions or insertions in the first intron were identified, including three alleles that have not been described previously. Different HvVRN1 alleles were associated with differing levels of HvVRN1 expression in non-vernalized plants and with different flowering behaviour. Using overlapping deletions, we delineated regions in the HvVRN1 first intron that are associated with low levels of HvVRN1 expression in non-vernalized plants. Deletion of these intronic regions does not prevent induction of HvVRN1 by cold or the maintenance of increased HvVRN1 expression following cold treatment. We suggest that regions within the first intron of HvVRN1 are required to maintain low levels of HvVRN1 expression prior to winter but act independently of the regulatory mechanisms that mediate induction of HvVRN1 by cold during winter.
Fungi of the order Sebacinales (Basidiomycota) are involved in a wide spectrum of mutualistic symbioses with various plants, thereby exhibiting unique potential for biocontrol strategies. Piriformospora indica, a model organism of this fungal order, is able to increase the biomass and grain yield of crop plants, and induces local and systemic resistance to fungal diseases and tolerance to abiotic stress. To elucidate the molecular basis for root colonization, we characterized the interaction of P. indica with barley roots by combining global gene expression profiling, metabolic profiling, and genetic studies. At the metabolic level, we show that fungal colonization reduces the availability of free sugars and amino acids to the root tip. At the transcriptional level, consecutive interaction stages covering pre-penetration-associated events and progressing through to root colonization showed differential regulation of signal perception and transduction components, secondary metabolism, and genes associated with membrane transport. Moreover, we observed stage-specific up-regulation of genes involved in phytohormone metabolism, mainly encompassing gibberellin, auxin and abscisic acid, but salicylic acid-associated gene expression was suppressed. The changes in hormone homoeostasis were accompanied with a general suppression of the plant innate immune system. Further genetic studies showed reduced fungal colonization in mutants that are impaired in gibberellin synthesis as well as perception, and implicate gibberellin as a modulator of the root's basal defence. Our data further reveal the complexity of compatibility mechanisms in host-microbe interactions, and identify gibberellin signaling as potential target for successful fungi.
Although the vacuole is the most important final store for toxic heavy metals like cadmium (Cd(2+)), our knowledge on how they are transported into the vacuole is still insufficient. It has been suggested that Cd(2+) can be transported as phytochelatin-Cd(2+) by an unknown ABC transporter or in exchange with protons by cation/proton exchanger (CAX) transporters. To unravel the contribution of vacuolar transporters to Cd(2+) detoxification, a quantitative proteomics approach was performed. Highly purified vacuoles were isolated from barley plants grown under minus, low (20 microM), and high (200 microM) Cd(2+ )conditions and protein levels of the obtained tonoplast samples were analyzed using isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ). Although 56 vacuolar transporter proteins were identified, only a few were differentially expressed. Under low-Cd(2+) conditions, an inorganic pyrophosphatase and a gamma-tonoplast intrinsic protein (gamma-TIP) were up-regulated, indicating changes in energization and water fluxes. In addition, the protein ratio of a CAX1a and a natural resistance-associated macrophage protein (NRAMP), responsible for vacuolar Fe(2+) export was increased. CAX1a might play a role in vacuolar Cd(2+) transport. An increase in NRAMP activity leads to a higher cytosolic Fe(2+) concentration, which may prevent the exchange of Fe(2+) by toxic Cd(2+). Additionally, an ABC transporter homolog to AtMRP3 showed up-regulation. Under high Cd(2+) conditions, the plant response was more specific. Only a protein homologous to AtMRP3 that showed already a response under low Cd(2+) conditions, was up-regulated. Interestingly, AtMRP3 is able to partially rescue a Cd(2+)-sensitive yeast mutant. The identified transporters are good candidates for further investigation of their roles in Cd(2+) detoxification.
The decay of seed dormancy during after-ripening is not well understood, but elucidation of the mechanisms involved may be important for developing strategies for modifying dormancy in crop species and, for example, addressing the problem of preharvest sprouting in cereals. We have studied the germination characteristics of barley (Hordeum vulgare 'Betzes') embryos, including a description of anatomical changes in the coleorhiza and the enclosed seminal roots. The changes that occur correlate with abscisic acid (ABA) contents of embryo tissues. To understand the molecular mechanisms involved in dormancy loss, we compared the transcriptome of dormant and after-ripened barley embryos using a tissue-specific microarray approach. Our results indicate that in the coleorhiza, ABA catabolism is promoted and ABA sensitivity is reduced and that this is associated with differential regulation by after-ripening of ABA 8'-hydroxylase and of the LIPID PHOSPHATE PHOSPHATASE gene family and ABI3-INTERACTING PROTEIN2, respectively. We also identified other processes, including jasmonate responses, cell wall modification, nitrate and nitrite reduction, mRNA stability, and blue light sensitivity, that were affected by after-ripening in the coleorhiza that may be downstream of ABA signaling. Based on these results, we propose that the coleorhiza plays a major role in causing dormancy by acting as a barrier to root emergence and that after-ripening potentiates molecular changes related to ABA metabolism and sensitivity that ultimately lead to degradation of the coleorhiza, root emergence, and germination.
Ethylene signalling affects the resistance of dicotyledonous plant species to diverse pathogens but almost nothing is known about the role of this pathway in monocotyledonous crop species. Fusarium graminearum causes Fusarium head blight (FHB) of cereals, contaminating grain with mycotoxins such as deoxynivalenol (DON). Very little is known about the mechanisms of resistance/susceptibility to this disease. Genetic and chemical genetic studies were used to examine the influence of ethylene (ET) signalling and perception on infection of dicotyledonous (Arabidopsis) and monocotyledonous (wheat and barley) species by F. graminearum. Arabidopsis mutants with reduced ET signalling or perception were more resistant to F. graminearum than wild-type, while mutants with enhanced ET production were more susceptible. These findings were confirmed by chemical genetic studies of Arabidopsis, wheat and barley. Attenuation of expression of EIN2 in wheat, a gene encoding a core component of ethylene signalling, reduced both disease symptoms and DON contamination of grain. Fusarium graminearum appears to exploit ethylene signalling in both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous species. This demonstration of translation from model to crop species provides a foundation for improving resistance of cereal crops to FHB through identification of allelic variation for components of the ethylene-signalling pathway.
Responses to prolonged low-temperature treatment of imbibed seeds (vernalization) were examined in barley (Hordeum vulgare). These occurred in two phases: the perception of prolonged cold, which occurred gradually at low temperatures, and the acceleration of reproductive development, which occurred after vernalization. Expression of the VERNALIZATION1 gene (HvVRN1) increased gradually in germinating seedlings during vernalization, both at the shoot apex and in the developing leaves. This occurred in darkness, independently of VERNALIZATION2 (HvVRN2), consistent with the hypothesis that expression of HvVRN1 is induced by prolonged cold independently of daylength flowering-response pathways. After vernalization, expression of HvVRN1 was maintained in the shoot apex and leaves. This was associated with accelerated inflorescence initiation and with down-regulation of HvVRN2 in the leaves. The largest determinant of HvVRN1 expression levels in vernalized plants was the length of seed vernalization treatment. Daylength did not influence HvVRN1 expression levels in shoot apices and typically did not affect expression in leaves. In the leaves of plants that had experienced a saturating seed vernalization treatment, expression of HvVRN1 was higher in long days, however. HvFT1 was expressed in the leaves of these plants in long days, which might account for the elevated HvVRN1 expression. Long-day up-regulation of HvVRN1 was not required for inflorescence initiation, but might accelerate subsequent stages of inflorescence development. Similar responses to seed vernalization were also observed in wheat (Triticum aestivum). These data support the hypothesis that VRN1 is induced by cold during winter to promote spring flowering in vernalization-responsive cereals.
Transcript abundance data from cRNA hybridizations to Affymetrix microarrays can potentially be used to identify genetic markers to facilitate high-throughput genotyping. We have shown that it is easily possible to use the information from Affymetrix expression arrays to accurately identify over 4,000 robust polymorphic transcript-derived markers (TDMs). We developed the method to identity TDM polymorphisms from experiments involving two tissues in two commercial varieties of barley and their doubled-haploid progeny. These TDMs represent ~18% of the total barley genes on the chip and can be used to predict the genotypes in an F(1)-derived, doubled-haploid population. According to our estimates, 35% of the TDMs reveal nucleotide polymorphism of the particular gene (single feature polymorphisms, SFPs) while 65% mark polymorphism resulting in extreme variation of gene expression (genetic expression markers, GEMs). These latter are probably mainly cis-acting regulators while a small proportion, approximately 5%, are loosely or un-linked transregulators.
RNA-directed RNA polymerases (RDRs) play crucial roles in the RNA silencing response of plants by enhancing and maintaining silencing signals. At least two members of the RDR group, namely RDR1 and RDR6, are implicated in defence against plant viruses. RDRs have so far only been characterized in dicot species. In this report, we identified and characterized HvRDR1, HvRDR2 and HvRDR6 genes in the monocot plant barley (Hordeum vulgare). We analysed their expression under various biotic and abiotic stresses including fungal and viral infections, salicylic acid treatment as well as during plant development. The different classes and subclasses of barley RDRs displayed contrasting expression patterns during pathogen challenge and development suggesting their involvement in specific regulatory pathways. Their response to heat and salicylic acid treatment suggests a conserved pattern of expression of these genes between monocot and dicot plant species. The existence of two HvRDR1 and two HvRDR6 genes suggests an evolutionary selection for specialization in response to biotic and abiotic stresses after gene duplication.
'Evolution Canyon' (ECI) at Lower Nahal Oren, Mount Carmel, Israel, is an optimal natural microscale model for unravelling evolution in action highlighting the twin evolutionary processes of adaptation and speciation. A major model organism in ECI is wild barley, Hordeum spontaneum, the progenitor of cultivated barley, which displays dramatic interslope adaptive and speciational divergence on the 'African' dry slope (AS) and the 'European' humid slope (ES), separated on average by 200 m. Here we examined interslope single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) sequences and the expression diversity of the drought resistant dehydrin 1 gene (Dhn1) between the opposite slopes. We analysed 47 plants (genotypes), 4-10 individuals in each of seven stations (populations) in an area of 7000 m(2), for Dhn1 sequence diversity located in the 5' upstream flanking region of the gene. We found significant levels of Dhn1 genic diversity represented by 29 haplotypes, derived from 45 SNPs in a total of 708 bp sites. Most of the haplotypes, 25 out of 29 (= 86.2%), were represented by one genotype; hence, unique to one population. Only a single haplotype was common to both slopes. Genetic divergence of sequence and haplotype diversity was generally and significantly different among the populations and slopes. Nucleotide diversity was higher on the AS, whereas haplotype diversity was higher on the ES. Interslope divergence was significantly higher than intraslope divergence. The applied Tajima D rejected neutrality of the SNP diversity. The Dhn1 expression under dehydration indicated interslope divergent expression between AS and ES genotypes, reinforcing Dhn1 associated with drought resistance of wild barley at 'Evolution Canyon'. These results are inexplicable by mutation, gene flow, or chance effects, and support adaptive natural microclimatic selection as the major evolutionary divergent driving force.
Chlorophyll production involves the synthesis of photoreactive intermediates that, when in excess, are toxic due to the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). A novel, activation-tagged barley (Hordeum vulgare) mutant is described that results from antisense suppression of a uroporphyrinogen III synthase (Uros) gene, the product of which catalyzes the sixth step in the synthesis of chlorophyll and heme. In homozygous mutant plants, uroporphyrin(ogen) I accumulates by spontaneous cyclization of hydroxyl methylbilane, the substrate of Uros. Accumulation of this tetrapyrrole intermediate results in photosensitive cell death due to the production of ROS. The efficiency of Uros gene suppression is developmentally regulated, being most effective in mature seedling leaves compared with newly emergent leaves. Reduced transcript accumulation of a number of nuclear-encoded photosynthesis genes occurs in the mutant, even under 3% light conditions, consistent with a retrograde plastid-nuclear signaling mechanism arising from Uros gene suppression. A similar set of nuclear genes was repressed in wild-type barley following treatment with a singlet oxygen-generating herbicide, but not by a superoxide generating herbicide, suggesting that the retrograde signaling apparent in the mutant is specific to singlet oxygen.
The walls of grasses and related members of the Poales are characterized by the presence of the polysaccharide (1,3, 1,4)-beta-D-glucan (beta-glucan). To date, only members of the grass-specific cellulose synthase-like F (CSLF) gene family have been implicated in its synthesis. Assuming that other grass-specific CSL genes also might encode synthases for this polysaccharide, we cloned HvCSLH1, a CSLH gene from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), and expressed an epitope-tagged version of the cDNA in Arabidopsis, a species with no CSLH genes and no beta-glucan in its walls. Transgenic Arabidopsis lines that had detectable amounts of the epitope-tagged HvCSLH1 protein accumulated beta-glucan in their walls. The presence of beta-glucan was confirmed by immunoelectron microscopy (immuno-EM) of sectioned tissues and chemical analysis of wall extracts. In the chemical analysis, characteristic tri- and tetra-saccharides were identified by high-performance anion-exchange chromatography and MALDI-TOF MS following their release from transgenic Arabidopsis walls by a specific beta-glucan hydrolase. Immuno-EM also was used to show that the epitope-tagged HvCSLH1 protein was in the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi-associated vesicles, but not in the plasma membrane. In barley, HvCSLH1 was expressed at very low levels in leaf, floral tissues, and the developing grain. In leaf, expression was highest in xylem and interfascicular fiber cells that have walls with secondary thickenings containing beta-glucan. Thus both the CSLH and CSLF families contribute to beta-glucan synthesis in grasses and probably do so independently of each other, because there is no significant transcriptional correlation between these genes in the barley tissues surveyed.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) grains synthesize starch as the main storage compound. However, some starch is degraded already during caryopsis development. We studied temporal and spatial expression patterns of genes coding for enzymes of starch synthesis and degradation. These profiles coupled with measurements of selected enzyme activities and metabolites have allowed us to propose a role for starch degradation in maternal and filial tissues of developing grains. Early maternal pericarp functions as a major short-term starch storage tissue, possibly ensuring sink strength of the young caryopsis. Gene expression patterns and enzyme activities suggest two different pathways for starch degradation in maternal tissues. One pathway possibly occurs via alpha-amylases 1 and 4 and beta-amylase 1 in pericarp, nucellus, and nucellar projection, tissues that undergo programmed cell death. Another pathway is deducted for living pericarp and chlorenchyma cells, where transient starch breakdown correlates with expression of chloroplast-localized beta-amylases 5, 6, and 7, glucan, water dikinase 1, phosphoglucan, water dikinase, isoamylase 3, and disproportionating enzyme. The suite of genes involved in starch synthesis in filial starchy endosperm is much more complex than in pericarp and involves several endosperm-specific genes. Transient starch turnover occurs in transfer cells, ensuring the maintenance of sink strength in filial tissues and the reallocation of sugars into more proximal regions of the starchy endosperm. Starch is temporally accumulated also in aleurone cells, where it is degraded during the seed filling period, to be replaced by storage proteins and lipids.
In the present study, we analysed allele-specific expression (ASE) in the selfing species barley to assess the frequency of cis-acting regulatory variation and the effects of genetic background, developmental differences and drought stress on allelic expression levels. We measured ASE ratios in 30 genes putatively involved in stress responses in five hybrids and their reciprocals, namely Hordeum spontaneum 41-1/Alexis (HAl), Hordeum spontaneum 41-1/Arta (HAr), Sloop/WI3408 (SW), Tadmor/Sloop (TS) and Tadmor/WI3408 (TW). In order to detect cis-acting variation related to drought and developmental changes, the barley hybrids were grown under control and water-limited conditions, and leaf tissue was harvested at two developmental stages. The analysis demonstrated that more than half of the genes measured (63%) showed allelic differences in expression of up to 19-fold due to cis-regulatory variation in at least one cross by treatment/stage combination. Drought stress induced changes in allelic expression ratios, indicating differences between drought responsive cis-elements. In addition, ASE differences between developmental stages suggested the presence of cis-acting elements interacting with developmental cues. We were also able to demonstrate that the levels and frequency of allelic imbalance and hence differences in cis-regulatory elements are correlated with the genetic divergence between the parental lines, but may also arise as an adaptation to diverse habitats. Our findings suggest that cis-regulatory variation is a common phenomenon in barley, and may provide a molecular basis of transgression. Differential expression of near-isogenic members of the same gene family could potentially result in hybrid lines out performing their parents in terms of expression level, timing and response to developmental and environmental cues. Identification and targeted manipulation of cis-regulatory elements will assist in breeding improved crops with a better adaptation to changing environments.
Nutrients destined for the developing cereal grain encounter several restricting barriers on their path towards their final storage sites in the grain. In order to identify transporters and chelating agents that may be involved in transport and deposition of zinc in the barley grain, expression profiles have been generated of four different tissue types: the transfer cells, the aleurone layer, the endosperm, and the embryo. Cells from these tissues were isolated with the 'laser capture microdissection' technology and the extracted RNA was subjected to three rounds of T7-based amplification. The amplified RNA was subsequently hybridized to Affymetrix 22K Barley GeneChips. Due to the short average length of the amplified transcripts and the positioning of numerous probe sets at locations more than 400 base pairs (bp) from the poly(A)-tail, a normalization approach was used where the probe positions were taken into account. On the basis of the expression levels of a number of metal homeostasis genes, a working model is proposed for the translocation of zinc from the phloem to the storage sites in the developing grain.
Flowering time represents an important adaptive trait for temperate cereal crops and may also impact on frost damage in cereal reproductive tissues by enabling escape or by influencing accumulation of genuine tolerance. The Flowering time-2L (Flt-2L) quantitative trait locus (QTL) on the distal end of barley chromosome arm 2HL overlaps with QTL for rachis internode length and reproductive frost damage. Flt-2L was also found to be associated with plant height. By combining marker analysis with phenotyping in progeny families of selected Amagi Nijo x WI2585 F(6) recombinants, we were able to map quantitative flowering time, rachis internode length, and plant height effects on 2HL as discrete Mendelian traits. The three developmental characters showed codominant modes of expression and perfectly cosegregated with one another in a 1.3-cM marker interval, indicating control by the same gene or closely linked genes. Twelve genes were identified in the related intervals in the rice and Brachypodium distachyon genomes. The HvAP2 gene cosegregated with Flt-2L and represents a plausible candidate for Flt-2L, since it is highly similar to the wheat domestication gene Q which has similar developmental effects. These data will contribute to isolation of the Flt-2L gene(s) and help establish the basis of the frost damage QTL.
Zinc (Zn) is an essential element for plants but limited information is currently available on the molecular basis for Zn(2+) transport in crop species. To expand the knowledge on Zn(2+) transport in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), a cDNA library prepared from barley roots was expressed in the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) mutant strain Deltazrt1/Deltazrt2, defective in Zn(2+) uptake. This strategy resulted in isolation and identification of three new Zn(2+) transporters from barley. All of the predicted proteins have a high similarity to the ZIP protein family, and are designated HvZIP3, HvZIP5 and HvZIP8, respectively. Complementation studies in Deltazrt1/Deltazrt2 showed restored growth of the yeast cells transformed with the different HvZIPs, although with different efficiency. Transformation into Fe(2+) and Mn(2+) uptake defective yeast mutants showed that the HvZIPs were unable to restore the growth on Fe(2+) and Mn(2+) limited media, respectively, indicating a specific role in Zn(2+) transport. In intact barley roots, HvZIP8 was constitutively expressed whereas HvZIP3 and HvZIP5 were mainly expressed in -Zn plants. These results suggest that HvZIP3, HvZIP5 and HvZIP8 are Zn(2+) transporters involved in Zn(2+) homeostasis in barley roots. The new transporters may facilitate breeding of barley genotypes with improved Zn efficiency and Zn content.
Plant processes resulting from primary or secondary metabolism have been hypothesized to contribute to defense against microbial attack. Barley chorismate synthase (HvCS), anthranilate synthase alpha subunit 2 (HvASa2), and chorismate mutase 1 (HvCM1) occupy pivotal branch points downstream of the shikimate pathway leading to the synthesis of aromatic amino acids. Here, we provide functional evidence that these genes contribute to penetration resistance to Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei, the causal agent of powdery mildew disease. Single-cell transient-induced gene silencing of HvCS and HvCM1 in mildew resistance locus a (Mla) compromised cells resulted in increased susceptibility. Correspondingly, overexpression of HvCS, HvASa2, and HvCM1 in lines carrying mildew resistance locus o (Mlo), a negative regulator of penetration resistance, significantly decreased susceptibility. Barley stripe mosaic virus-induced gene silencing of HvCS, HvASa2, and HvCM1 significantly increased B. graminis f. sp. hordei penetration into epidermal cells, followed by formation of haustoria and secondary hyphae. However, sporulation of B. graminis f. sp. hordei was not detected on the silenced host plants up to 3 weeks after inoculation. Taken together, these results establish a previously unrecognized role for the influence of HvCS, HvASa2, and HvCM1 on penetration resistance and on the rate of B. graminis f. sp. hordei development in Mla-mediated, barley-powdery mildew interactions.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) carrying the recessive mutation absent lower laterals (als) exhibits few tillers and irregular inflorescence development. To gain an increased understanding of the genetic control of tillering in barley, we conducted morphological, genetic, and transcriptome analysis of the als mutant. Axillary buds for primary tillers, but not for secondary tillers, developed in als plants. Double mutant combinations of als with one low-tillering and four high-tillering mutants resulted in a tillering phenotype similar to als, indicating that als was epistatic to these tillering genes. However, double mutant combinations of als with another low-tillering mutant, intermedium-b, reduced tiller numbers, indicating there were at least two genetic pathways regulating tillering in barley. Next, we used simple sequence repeat markers to map the Als gene on the long arm of barley chromosome 3H, Bin 11. Finally, the Affymetrix Barley1 GeneChip was used to identify differentially accumulated transcripts in als compared to wild-type. Forty percent of the transcripts with twofold or greater accumulation in als tissues corresponded to stress and defense response genes. This finding suggested that a tillering pathway may modulate the stress response.
Based on paper I in this series, our goals in this paper were to determine the relationship between prebombardment pretreatments and temperatures, microspore cell cycle when bombarded, and the frequencies of homozygous and hemizygous transgenic progeny in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Of the 104 fluorescent plants selected when using the GFP fluorescence transgene, 28 were albino and 76 plants were green. Thirty-one green plants were confirmed to be transgenic; the others were either transient green fluorescent protein expression or selected due to autofluorescence. Of the 31 plants, 23 came from embryos expressing a high level of fluorescence during selection and eight from 51 plants exhibiting a low level of fluorescence. Of the two pretreatments used to induce embryogenesis, 24 of 31 plants were from the cold pretreatment for 21 days (C) versus seven from the 4 day cold plus mannitol pretreatment. Following pretreatment, the microspores were subjected to a high-osmotic period (0.5 mol/L mannitol plus sorbitol) of 4 h prebombardment and 18 h postbombardment at either 25 or 4 degrees C. Of the 31 transgenic plants, 19 were produced following the 25 degrees C 4 h prebombardment. Sixteen of the 19 were doubled haploid plants (seven being homozygous for the transgene) and the other three plants were haploid. Of the remaining 12 plants recovered following the 4 h 4 degrees C prebombardment treatment, nine were haploid and three were doubled haploid plants, two of the latter being homozygous for the transgene. All 12 haploid plants obtained were treated with colchicine and produced homozygous transgenic doubled haploids. Of the two promoters compared, 30 plants had the actin promoter and only one had the 35S promoter. The use of arabinogalactan protein in the culture medium was very beneficial, giving rise to 29 of the 31 plants. The best procedure for obtaining transgenic barley plants from this study was pretreatment C, leaving the cultures at either 4 or 25 degrees C during the 4 h prebombardment high-osmotic period, using the actin promoter and having arabinogalactan protein in the microspore culture medium. With this procedure, the transgenic frequency was improved 8- to10-fold over previous reports on bombardment of microspores. It yielded about one transgenic plant per Petri dish and is comparable with Agrobacterium frequencies on structures derived from microspores.
Plant microspores can be reprogrammed from their normal pollen development to an embryogenic route in a process termed microspore embryogenesis or androgenesis. Stress treatment has a critical role in this process, inducing the dedifferentiation of microspores and conditioning the following androgenic response. In this study, we have used three barley doubled haploid lines with similar genetic background but different androgenic response. The Barley1 GeneChip was used for transcriptome comparison of these lines after mannitol stress treatment, allowing the identification of 213 differentially expressed genes. Most of these genes belong to the functional categories "cell rescue, defense, and virulence"; "metabolism"; "transcription"; and "transport". These genes were grouped into clusters according to their expression profiles among lines. A principal component analysis allowed us to associate specific gene expression clusters to phenotypic variables. Genes associated with the ability of microspores to divide and form embryos were mainly involved in changes in the structure and function of membranes, efficient use of available energy sources, and cell fate. Genes related to stress response, transcription and translation regulation, and degradation of pollen-specific proteins were associated with green plant production, while expression of genes related to plastid development was associated with albino plant regeneration.
The basidiomycete Ustilago maydis causes smut disease in maize. Colonization of the host plant is initiated by direct penetration of cuticle and cell wall of maize epidermis cells. The invading hyphae are surrounded by the plant plasma membrane and proliferate within the plant tissue. We identified a novel secreted protein, termed Pep1, that is essential for penetration. Disruption mutants of pep1 are not affected in saprophytic growth and develop normal infection structures. However, Deltapep1 mutants arrest during penetration of the epidermal cell and elicit a strong plant defense response. Using Affymetrix maize arrays, we identified 116 plant genes which are differentially regulated in Deltapep1 compared to wild type infections. Most of these genes are related to plant defense. By in vivo immunolocalization, live-cell imaging and plasmolysis approaches, we detected Pep1 in the apoplastic space as well as its accumulation at sites of cell-to-cell passages. Site-directed mutagenesis identified two of the four cysteine residues in Pep1 as essential for function, suggesting that the formation of disulfide bridges is crucial for proper protein folding. The barley covered smut fungus Ustilago hordei contains an ortholog of pep1 which is needed for penetration of barley and which is able to complement the U. maydis Deltapep1 mutant. Based on these results, we conclude that Pep1 has a conserved function essential for establishing compatibility that is not restricted to the U. maydis / maize interaction.
High-molecular-weight glutenin subunits (HMW-GSs) have been considered as most important seed storage proteins for wheat flour quality. 1Ay subunits are of great interest because they are always silent in common wheat. The presence of expressed 1Ay subunits in diploid and tetraploid wheat genotypes makes it possible to investigate molecular information of active 1Ay genes. We identified 1Ay subunits with different electrophoretic mobility from 141 accessions of diploid and tetraploid wheats, and obtained the complete ORFs and 5' flanking sequences of 1Ay genes including 6 active and 3 inactive ones. Furthermore, the 5' flanking sequences were characterized from 23 wild diploid species of Triticeae. All 6 active 1Ay possess a typical HMW-GS primary structure and some novel characteristics. The conserved cysteine residue within the repetitive domain of y-type subunits was replaced by phenylalanine residue in subunits of 1Ay (Tu-e1), 1Ay (Tu-e2), 1Ay (Ta-e2) and 1Ay (Td-e). Particularly, 1Ay (Ta-e3) has an unusual large molecular weight of 2202 bp and was one of the known largest y-type HMW-GSs. The translations of 1Ay (Tu-s), 1Ay (Ta-s) and 1Ay (Td-s) were disrupted by premature stop codons in their coding regions. The 5' flanking sequences of active and inactive 1Ay genes differ in a few base substitutions and insertions or deletions. The 85 bp deletions have been found in promoter regions of all 1Ay genes and the corresponding positions of 6 species from Aegilops and Hordeum. The possession of larger molecular weight and fewer conserved cysteine residues are unique structural features of 1Ay genes; it would be interested to express them in bread wheat and further to examine their impact to processing quality of wheat. The 1Ay genes from T. urartu are closer to the genes from T. turgidum dicoccon and T. aestivum, than those from T. monococcum aegilopoides. The 85 bp deletion and some variations in the 5'flanking region, have not interrupted expression of 1Ay genes, whereas the defects in the coding regions could be responsible to the silence of the 1Ay genes. Some mutational events in more distant distal promoter regions are also possible causes for the inactivation of 1Ay genes.
Gene trapping is a powerful tool for gene discovery and functional genomics in both animals and plants. Upon insertion of the gene trap construct into an expressed gene, splice donor and acceptor sites facilitate the generation of transcriptional fusions between the flanking sequence and the reporter. Consequently, detection of reporter gene expression allows the identification of genes based on their expression pattern. Up to now rice is the only cereal crop for which gene trap approaches exist. In this study we describe a gene trap system in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) based on the maize transposable elements Ac/Ds. We generated gene trap barley lines by crossing Ac transposase expressing plants with multiple independent transformants carrying the Ds based gene trap construct GTDsB. Upstream of the beta-Glucuronidase start codon GTDsB carries splice donor and acceptor sites optimized for monocotyledonous plants. DNA blot analysis revealed GTDsB transposition frequencies of 11% and 26% in the F1 and F2 generation of gene trap lines and perpetuation of transposition activity in later generations. Furthermore, analysis of sequences flanking transposed GTDsB elements evidenced preferential insertion into expressed regions of the barley genome. We screened leaves, nodes, immature florets, pollinated florets, immature grains and seedlings of F2 plants and detected GUS expression in 51% (72/141) of the plants. Thus, reporter gene expression was found in 24 of the 28 F1 lines tested and in progeny of all GTDsB parental lines. Due to the frequent transposition of GTDsB and the efficient expression of the GUS reporter gene, we conclude that this Ac/Ds-based gene trap system is an applicable approach for gene discovery in barley. The successful introduction of a gene trap construct optimized for monocots in barley contributes a novel functional genomics tool for this cereal crop.
Advances in the genetic transformation of cereals have improved the prospects of using biotechnology for plant improvement, and a toolbox of promoters with defined specificities would be a valuable resource in controlling the expression of transgenes in desired tissues for both plant improvement and molecular farming. A number of promoters have been isolated from the important cereals (wheat, barley, rice and maize), and these promoters have been tested mostly in homologous cereal systems and, to a lesser extent, in heterologous cereal systems. The use of these promoters across the important cereals would add value to the utility of each promoter. In addition, promoters with less sequence homology, but with similar specificities, will be crucial in avoiding homology-based gene silencing when expressing more than one transgene in the same tissue. We have tested wheat and barley promoters in transgenic barley and wheat to determine whether their specificity is shared across these two species. The barley bifunctional alpha-amylase/subtilisin inhibitor (Isa) promoter, specific to the pericarp in barley, failed to show any activity in wheat, whereas the wheat early-maturing (Em) promoter showed similar activity in wheat and barley. The wheat high-molecular-weight glutenin (HMW-Glu) and barley D-hordein (D-Hor) and B-hordein (B-Hor) storage protein promoters maintained endosperm-specific expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in wheat and barley, respectively. Using gfp, we have demonstrated that the Isa and Em promoters can be used as strong promoters to direct transgenes in specific tissues of barley and wheat grain. Differential promoter activity across cereals expands and adds value to a promoter toolbox for utility in plant biotechnology.
Five barley (Hordeum vulgare) PEBP (for phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein) genes were analyzed to clarify their functional roles in flowering using transgenic, expression, and quantitative trait locus analyses. Introduction of HvTFL1 and HvMFT1 into rice (Oryza sativa) plants did not result in any changes in flowering, suggesting that these two genes have functions distinct from flowering. Overexpression of HvFT1, HvFT2, and HvFT3 in rice resulted in early heading, indicating that these FT-like genes can act as promoters of the floral transition. HvFT1 transgenic plants showed the most robust flowering initiation. In barley, HvFT1 was expressed at the time of shoot meristem phase transition. These results suggest that HvFT1 is the key gene responsible for flowering in the barley FT-like gene family. HvFT2 transgenic plants also showed robust flowering initiation, but HvFT2 was expressed only under short-day (SD) conditions during the phase transition, suggesting that its role is limited to specific photoperiodic conditions in barley. Flowering activity in HvFT3 transgenic rice was not as strong and was modulated by the photoperiod. These results suggest that HvFT3 functions in flowering promotion but that its effect is indirect. HvFT3 expression was observed in Morex, a barley cultivar carrying a dominant allele of Ppd-H2, a major quantitative trait locus for flowering under SD conditions, although no expression was detected in Steptoe, a cultivar carrying ppd-H2. HvFT3 was expressed in Morex under both long-day and SD conditions, although its expression was increased under SD conditions. HvFT3 was mapped to chromosome 1HL, the same chromosome that carries Ppd-H2. Genomic sequence analyses revealed that Morex possesses an intact HvFT3 gene, whereas most of this gene has been lost in Steptoe. These data strongly suggest that HvFT3 may be identical to Ppd-H2.
Mitochondria and chloroplasts are the primary sources of reactive oxygen species in photosynthetic tissues. Mitochondria play a dual role in oxidative stress, being both ROS producers and integrators of the cell antioxidant defense systems. Anoxia followed by re-exposure to air may create conditions of elevated ROS generation in plants. The reactions of barley leaves and root antioxidant systems after anoxia were investigated. Alternative oxidase and low-mass antioxidants showed different patterns of change in leaves and roots in response to changing oxygen availability. Mitochondria from leaves showed a reduced AOX capacity and AOX protein level during post-anoxia, while the AOX capacity in root mitochondria increased. In leaf tissue, ascorbate and glutathione were immediately oxidized after restoration of aerobiosis due to the enhanced ROS production, whereas in roots ascorbate and glutathione became even more reduced. The capacity of antioxidant systems was not exceeded in either leaf or root tissue after anoxia; no signs of oxidative damage were observed and the respiratory activity of mitochondria was retained. We suggest that the leaf and root cell antioxidant systems react differentially to changes in oxygen concentration. In leaves, low-mass antioxidants play the major role in ROS detoxification, while in roots, increased AOX capacity supports the antioxidant systems, possibly by preventing ROS formation.
Autophagy is an intracellular process in which a portion of cytoplasm is transported into vacuoles for recycling. Physiological roles of autophagy in plants include recycling nutrients during senescence, sustaining life during starvation, and the formation of central digestive vacuoles. The regulation of autophagy and the formation of autophagosomes, spherical double membrane structures containing cytoplasm moving toward vacuoles, are poorly understood. HVA22 is a gene originally cloned from barley (Hordeum vulgare), which is highly induced by abscisic acid and environmental stress. Homologs of HVA22 include Yop1 in yeast, TB2/DP1 in human, and AtHVA22a to -e in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Reverse genetics followed by a cell biology approach were employed to study the function of HVA22 homologs. The AtHVA22d RNA interference (RNAi) Arabidopsis plants produced small siliques with reduced seed yield. This phenotype cosegregated with the RNAi transgene. Causes of the reduced seed yield include short filaments, defective carpels, and dysfunctional pollen grains. Enhanced autophagy was observed in the filament cells. The number of autophagosomes in root tips of RNAi plants was also increased dramatically. The yop1 deletion mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae was used to verify our hypothesis that HVA22 homologs are suppressors of autophagy. Autophagy activity of this mutant during nitrogen starvation increased in 5 min and reached a plateau after 2 h, with about 80% of cells showing autophagy, while the wild-type cells exhibited low levels of autophagy following 8 h of nitrogen starvation. We conclude that HVA22 homologs function as suppressors of autophagy in both plants and yeast. Potential mechanisms of this suppression and the roles of abscisic acid-induced HVA22 expression in vegetative and reproductive tissues are discussed.
A collection of 5006 full-length (FL) cDNA sequences was developed in barley. Fifteen mRNA samples from various organs and treatments were pooled to develop a cDNA library using the CAP trapper method. More than 60% of the clones were confirmed to have complete coding sequences, based on comparison with rice amino acid and UniProt sequences. Blastn homologies (E<1E-5) to rice genes and Arabidopsis genes were 89 and 47%, respectively. Of the 5028 possible amino acid sequences derived from the 5006 FLcDNAs, 4032 (80.2%) were classified into 1678 GreenPhyl multigenic families. There were 555 cDNAs showing low homology to both rice and Arabidopsis. Gene ontology annotation by InterProScan indicated that many of these cDNAs (71%) have no known molecular functions and may be unique to barley. The cDNAs showed high homology to Barley 1 GeneChip oligo probes (81%) and the wheat gene index (84%). The high homology between FLcDNAs (27%) and mapped barley expressed sequence tag enabled assigning linkage map positions to 151-233 FLcDNAs on each of the seven barley chromosomes. These comprehensive barley FLcDNAs provide strong platform to connect pre-existing genomic and genetic resources and accelerate gene identification and genome analysis in barley and related species. Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank Data Libraries under accession nos AK248134-AK253139. The online database with annotation is available at http://www.shigen.nig.ac.jp/barley/.
The effect of melafen, a plant growth regulator of a new generation, on the growth, pigment composition, and expression of nuclear genes Elip1 and Elip2 encoding chloroplast light-stress proteins in barley (Hordeum vulgare L) seedlings was studied. It is shown that the height of seedlings treated with melafen at concentrations of 0.5 x 10(-10) and 0.5 x 10(-8) M increased by approximately 10 and 20%, respectively, as compared to the control. At high concentrations (10(-5) and 10(-3) M), melafen had no effect on the growth of seedlings. The content of chlorophylls and carotenoids in chloroplasts barely differed from the control at all melafen concentrations tested. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) showed that melafen did not influence the expression of the nuclear gene encoding the low-molecular-weight plastid stress protein ELIP1. At the same time, the expression of the nuclear gene encoding the high-molecular-weight light-inducible stress protein ELIP2 in the plants treated with melafen at a concentration of 0.5 x 10(-8) M, increased by approximately 70 %. At higher concentrations, melafen suppressed the Elip2 gene expression. Thus, melafen affects the expression of the Elip2 gene, which is involved in the regulation of chlorophyll synthesis and chloroplast biogenesis, which, in turn, may lead to changes in the resistance of plants to light-induced stress.
The balance of gibberellins [gibberellic acid (GA)] and abscisic acid (ABA) is a determining factor during transition of embryogenesis and seed germination. Recently, we showed that 14-3-3 proteins are important in ABA signalling in barley aleurone cells. Using 14-3-3 RNAi constructs in the barley aleurone transient expression system, we demonstrate here that silencing of each 14-3-3 isoform suppresses GA induction of the alpha-amylase gene. 14-3-3 Proteins interact with ABA-responsive element (ABRE) binding factors HvABF1, 2 and 3, and here we show that these transcription factors also interact with the ABA-responsive kinase PKABA1, a kinase that mediates cross-talk between the GA and ABA pathway. ABF1 and ABF2 have a function in both signalling pathways as: (1) ectopic expression of wild-type ABF1 and mutant ABF2, lacking the 14-3-3 interaction domain, transactivates the ABA inducible HVA1 gene; and (2) GA induction of the alpha-amylase gene is repressed by ectopic expression of wild-type ABF1 and 2. Mutant ABF1 and 2 were still effective repressors of GA signalling. In summary, our data provide evidence that 14-3-3 proteins and members of the ABF transcription factor family have a regulatory function in the GA pathway and suggest that PKABA1 and ABF transcription factors are cross-talk intermediates in ABA and GA signalling.
Here, we used phosphorus-32 (32P) labelling in compartmented pots combined with quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of phosphate(Pi) transporter gene expression to investigate regulation of Pi uptake pathways in barley (Hordeum vulgare), an arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) plant that does not show strong positive growth responses to colonization.Barley was colonized well by Glomus intraradices and poorly by Glomus geosporum,but both fungi induced significant and similar growth depressions compared with non mycorrhizal controls. The lack of correlation between per cent colonization and extent of growth depression suggests that the latter is not related to carbon drain to the fungus. The contribution of the AM Pi uptake pathway for the two fungi was, in general,related to per cent colonization and expression of the AM-inducible Pi transporter gene, HvPT8, but not to plant responsiveness. Glomus intraradices contributed 48%of total plant P whereas G. geosporum contributed very little.The growth depression in plants where the AM uptake pathway was functional suggests that the contribution of the direct Pi uptake pathway via root hairs and epidermis was decreased. This decrease was not correlated with downregulation of the epidermal-expressed Pi transporter genes, HvPT1 and HvPT2. We hypothesize post-transcriptional or post-translational control of this transport process by AM colonization.
The present experiment aimed to study the influence of six sources of non-digestible carbohydrates (NDC) on the mucous layer in the colon of rats. The NDC sources used were as follows: cellulose (C); pectin (P); inulin; resistant starch (RS); barley hulls. The diets contained 108-140 g NDC/kg DM. A fibre-free (FF) diet served as a control. The diets were fed to forty-eight rats for 34-41 d. The thickness of the total mucous layer in the colon was increased (P < 0.05) in rats fed C, P and RS when compared with rats fed a FF diet. In the colon, positive correlations were observed between the total thickness of the mucous layer and the area of neutral mucins, the pool of SCFA and the pool of acetic acid, while it was negatively correlated with the proportion of butyrate. The total thickness of the mucous layer was not correlated with the MUC gene transcription. The transcription of the gene MUC2 was negatively correlated (P = 0.04), whereas the transcription of MUC3 was positively correlated (P = 0.05) with the butyrate pool in the caecum. No correlations between the MUC2 or MUC3 transcription and SCFA were found in the colon. Hence, the regulation of the MUC genes differs between the compartments of the hindgut and, within compartments, the MUC genes may be regulated differently. In conclusion, a diet providing a large pool of SCFA with a low proportion of butyrate in the colon stimulates the formation of a thick mucous layer, which probably benefits intestinal health.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seed development is a highly regulated process with fine-tuned interaction of various tissues controlling distinct physiological events during prestorage, storage and dessication phase. As potential regulators involved within this process we studied 172 transcription factors and 204 kinases for their expression behaviour and anchored a subset of them to the barley linkage map to promote marker-assisted studies on barley grains. By a hierachical clustering of the expression profiles of 376 potential regulatory genes expressed in 37 different tissues, we found 50 regulators preferentially expressed in one of the three grain tissue fractions pericarp, endosperm and embryo during seed development. In addition, 27 regulators found to be expressed during both seed development and germination and 32 additional regulators are characteristically expressed in multiple tissues undergoing cell differentiation events during barley plant ontogeny. Another 96 regulators were, beside in the developing seed, ubiquitously expressed among all tissues of germinating seedlings as well as in reproductive tissues. SNP-marker development for those regulators resulted in anchoring 61 markers on the genetic linkage map of barley and the chromosomal assignment of another 12 loci by using wheat-barley addition lines. The SNP frequency ranged from 0.5 to 1.0 SNP/kb in the parents of the various mapping populations and was 2.3 SNP/kb over all eight lines tested. Exploration of macrosynteny to rice revealed that the chromosomal orders of the mapped putative regulatory factors were predominantly conserved during evolution. We identified expression patterns of major transcription factors and signaling related genes expressed during barley ontogeny and further assigned possible functions based on likely orthologs functionally well characterized in model plant species. The combined linkage map and reference expression map of regulators defined in the present study offers the possibility of further directed research of the functional role of regulators during seed development in barley.
Breeding for malting quality is an important goal of malting barley breeding programs. Malting quality is a complex phenotype that combines a large number of interrelated components, each of which shows complex inheritance. Currently, only a few genes involved in determining malting quality have been characterized. We combined transcript profiling with phenotypic correlations to identify candidate genes for malting quality. The Barley1 GeneChip array containing 22,792 probe sets was used to conduct transcript profiling of genes expressed in several different stages of malting of four malting cultivars. Genes that were differentially expressed in comparisons between different malting stages relative to ungerminated seed, as well as in comparisons between malting cultivars in the same malting stage were identified. Correlation analysis of 723 differentially expressed genes with malting quality phenotypes showed that 11-102 of these genes correlated with six malting quality phenotypes. Genes involved in carbohydrate metabolism were among the positively correlated genes. Genes for protein and lipid metabolism, cell wall organization and biogenesis, and genes involved in stress and defense response also correlated with malting quality phenotypes. Expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were generated from a 'malting-gene enriched' cDNA library made by suppression subtractive hybridization between malted and ungerminated seeds of 'Morex'. Eleven percent of the ESTs had no significant homology with sequences in the databases, suggesting that there may be other malting-related genes not represented in the barley gene chip array. The results provide candidate genes for malting quality phenotypes that need to be functionally validated.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an ubiquitous, opportunistic pathogen whose biofilms are notoriously difficult to control. Here we discover uracil influences all three known quorum-sensing (QS) pathways of P. aeruginosa. By screening 5850 transposon mutants for altered biofilm formation, we identified seven uracil-related mutations that abolished biofilm formation. Whole-transcriptome studies showed the uracil mutations (e.g. pyrF that catalyses the last step in uridine monophosphate synthesis) alter the regulation of all three QS pathways [LasR-, RhlR- and 2-heptyl-3-hydroxy-4-quinolone (PQS)-related regulons]; addition of extracellular uracil restored global wild-type regulation. Phenotypic studies confirmed uracil influences the LasR (elastase), RhlR (pyocyanin, rhamnolipids), PQS and swarming regulons. Our results also demonstrate uracil influences virulence (the pyrF mutant was less virulent to barley). Additionally, we found an anticancer uracil analogue, 5-fluorouracil, that repressed biofilm formation, abolished QS phenotypes and reduced virulence. Hence, we have identified a central regulator of an important pathogen and a potential novel class of efficacious drugs for controlling cellular behaviour (e.g. biofilm formation and virulence).
Microspores genetically programmed to produce male gametes can be switched to the embryogenic pathway to give rise to haploid embryos. Microspore embryogenesis is usually induced in barley by stress pre-treatment applied to vacuolated microspores. We studied the expression of two genes during the early stages of microspore embryogenesis to gain further insight into the microspore transition from the gametophytic to the embryogenic pathway. RT-PCR together with in situ hybridization on sections (ISH) and whole-mount in situ hybridization (WISH) were used to analyse the expression of the early-culture abundant gene (ECA1), which is expressed in barley during microspore embryogenesis, and a polygalacturonase gene (HvPG1), a late pollen gene expressed during gametogenesis only after microspore division. Both ECA1 and HvPG1 genes were transcriptionally active after stress pre-treatment in the same populations of microspore-derived structures, representing the sporophytically induced ones. ECA1 transcripts were also detected after 3 days' culture. Our results point to the possibility of using ECA1 gene expression as a marker for the induction of microspore embryogenesis and the earliest stages of this process. Finally, we demonstrate that WISH is a suitable technique for studying gene expression in embryogenic microspore populations and, because different structures can be examined individually, is an appropriate complement to transcriptomic profile analyses in the study of early microspore embryogenesis.
Typical for a graminaceous plant, barley secretes mugineic acid-family phytosiderophores (MAs) to acquire iron (Fe). Under Fe-deficient conditions, MAs secretion from barley roots increases markedly. Secretion shows a diurnal pattern, with a clear peak 2-3 h after sunrise and cessation within a few hours. Microarray analyses were performed to profile the Fe deficiency-inducible genes in barley roots and diurnal changes in the expression of these genes. Genes encoding enzymes involved in MAs biosynthesis, the methionine cycle, and methionine biosynthesis were highly induced by Fe deficiency. The expression of sulfate transporters was also upregulated by Fe deficiency. Therefore, all of the genes participating in the MAs pathway from sulfur uptake and assimilation to the biosynthesis of MAs were upregulated in Fe-deficient barley roots. In contrast to MAs secretion, the transcript levels of these genes did not show diurnal changes. The amount of endogenous MAs gradually increased during the day after MAs secretion ceased, and was highest before secretion began. These results show that MAs biosynthesis, including the supply of the substrate methionine, occurs throughout the day, and biosynthesized MAs likely accumulate in barley roots until their secretion into the rhizosphere. In contrast, the levels of transcripts encoding an Fe(III)-MAs complex transporter, two putative metal-MAs complex transporters, and HvYS1 were also increased in Fe-deficient barley roots, and the levels of two of these transcripts showed diurnal rhythms. The Fe(III)-MAs complex transporters may absorb Fe(III)-MAs diurnally, synchronous with the diurnal secretion of MAs.
The bird cherry-oat aphid (Rhopalosiphum padi L.) is an important pest on cereals causing plant growth reduction without specific leaf symptoms. Breeding of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) for R. padi resistance shows that there are several resistance genes, reducing aphid growth. To identify candidate sequences for resistance-related genes, we performed microarray analysis of gene expression after aphid infestation in two susceptible and two partially resistant barley genotypes. One of the four lines is a descendant of two of the other genotypes. There were large differences in gene induction between the four lines, indicating substantial variation in response even between closely related genotypes. Genes induced in aphid-infested tissue were mainly related to defence, primary metabolism and signalling. Only 24 genes were induced in all lines, none of them related to oxidative stress or secondary metabolism. Few genes were down-regulated, with none being common to all four lines. There were differences in aphid-induced gene regulation between resistant and susceptible lines. Results from control plants without aphids also revealed differences in constitutive gene expression between the two types of lines. Candidate sequences for induced and constitutive resistance factors have been identified, among them a proteinase inhibitor, a serine/threonine kinase and several thionins.
Small-interfering RNAs (siRNAs) from natural cis-antisense pairs derived from the 3'-coding region of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) CesA6 cellulose synthase gene substantially increase in abundance during leaf elongation. Strand-specific RT-PCR confirmed the presence of an antisense transcript of HvCesA6 that extends > or = 1230 bp from the 3' end of the CesA-coding sequence. The increases in abundance of the CesA6 antisense transcript and the 21-nt and 24-nt siRNAs derived from the transcript are coincident with the down-regulation of primary wall CesAs, several Csl genes, and GT8 glycosyl transferase genes, and are correlated with the reduction in rates of cellulose and (1 --> 3),(1 --> 4)-beta-D-glucan synthesis. Virus induced gene silencing using unique target sequences derived from HvCesA genes attenuated expression not only of the HvCesA6 gene, but also of numerous nontarget Csls and the distantly related GT8 genes and reduced the incorporation of D-(14)C-Glc into cellulose and into mixed-linkage (1 --> 3),(1 --> 4)-beta-D-glucans of the developing leaves. Unique target sequences for CslF and CslH conversely silenced the same genes and lowered rates of cellulose and (1 --> 3),(1 --> 4)-beta-D-glucan synthesis. Our results indicate that the expression of individual members of the CesA/Csl superfamily and glycosyl transferases share common regulatory control points, and siRNAs from natural cis-antisense pairs derived from the CesA/Csl superfamily could function in this global regulation of cell-wall synthesis.
The degradation of intracytosolic proteins has been well described. However, the degradation pathway and physiological functions of the DNA-Bound peptides, which are free of degradation by peptidase of the post-ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, are still unclear. In this study, the DNA-Bound peptides were isolated from barley germ and two main fractions of about 25 different peptides were obtained. The DNA-Bound peptides were found to inhibit the proliferation of HeLa cells in a series of experiments. The DNA-Bound peptides also significantly inhibited in vitro and in vivo DNA transcription activity by regulating the expression and the corresponding functions of CDK7. Furthermore, signaling issues involving NFkappaB and ERK1/2 were observed. Such data suggests that DNA transcription could be inhibited by the DNA-Bound peptides via the CDK7 pathway. Thus we concluded that some of the post-proteasomal peptides were involved in the regulation of eukaryotic mRNA transcription.
A gene encoding Hordeum vulgare dehydration-responsive element binding protein 1 (HvDREB1), a member of the A-2 subgroup of the DREB subfamily, was isolated from barley seedlings. A subcellular localization assay revealed accumulation of HvDREB1 protein in the nucleus. As a trans-acting factor, HvDREB1 was able to bind to DRE/CRT elements and transactivate reporter gene expression in yeast cells. A study of various deletion mutants of HvDREB1 proteins indicated that the transactivation activity was localized to the N-terminal region. Expression of the HvDREB1 gene in barley leaves was significantly induced by salt, drought, and low-temperature. In contrast to most A-2 subgroup members in Arabidopsis thaliana, HvDREB1 also responded to exogenous ABA. Overexpression of HvDREB1 activated a downstream gene, RD29A, under normal growth conditions and led to increased tolerance to salt stress in Arabidopsis plants. These results suggest that HvDREB1 produces a DRE-/CRT-binding transcription factor that may have an important role in improving salt tolerance in plants.
The effects of infestation by the bird cherry-oat aphid (BCA), (Rhopalosiphum padi L) and the Russian wheat aphid (RWA) (Diuraphis noxia Mordvilko) on callose deposition and transcription of genes related to callose accumulation were investigated in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Clipper). The BCA, which gives no visible symptoms, induced very limited callose deposition, even after 14 days of infestation. In contrast, RWA, which causes chlorosis, white and yellow streaking and leaf rolling, induced callose accumulation already after 24 h in longitudinal leaf veins. The deposition was pronounced after 72 h, progressing during 7 and 14 days of infestation. In RWA-infested source leaves, callose was also induced in longitudinal veins basipetal to the aphid-infested tissue, whereas in sink leaves, more callose deposition was found above the feeding sites. Eight putative callose synthase genes were identified in a database search, of which seven were expressed in the leaves, but with similar transcript accumulation in control and aphid-infested tissue. Five out of 12 examined beta-1,3-glucanases were expressed in the leaves. All five were upregulated in RWA-infested tissue, but only two in BCA-infested tissue, and to a lesser extent than by RWA. The results suggest that callose accumulation may be partly responsible for the symptoms resulting from RWA infestation and that a callose-inducing signal may be transported in the phloem. Furthermore, it is concluded that the absence of callose deposition in BCA-infested leaves is not because of a stronger upregulation of callose-degrading beta-1,3-glucanases in this tissue, as compared to RWA-infested leaves.
The sucrose nonfermenting 1 (SNF1) protein kinase of yeast plays a central role in the transcription of glucose-repressible genes in response to glucose starvation. In this study, we deleted an ortholog of SNF1 from Gibberella zeae to characterize its functions by using a gene replacement strategy. The mycelial growth of deletion mutants (DeltaGzSNF1) was reduced by 21 to 74% on diverse carbon sources. The virulence of DeltaGzSNF1 mutants on barley decreased, and the expression of genes encoding cell-wall-degrading enzymes was reduced. The most distinct phenotypic changes were in sexual and asexual development. DeltaGzSNF1 mutants produced 30% fewer perithecia, which matured more slowly, and asci that contained one to eight abnormally shaped ascospores. Mutants in which only the GzSNF1 catalytic domain was deleted had the same phenotype changes as the DeltaGzSNF1 strains, but the phenotype was less extreme in the mutants with the regulatory domain deleted. In outcrosses between the DeltaGzSNF1 mutants, each perithecium contained approximately 70% of the abnormal ascospores, and approximately 50% of the asci showed unexpected segregation patterns in a single locus tested. The asexual spores of the DeltaGzSNF1 mutants were shorter and had fewer septa than those of the wild-type strain. The germination and nucleation of both ascospores and conidia were delayed in DeltaGzSNF1 mutants in comparison with those of the wild-type strain. GzSNF1 expression and localization depended on the developmental stage of the fungus. These results suggest that GzSNF1 is critical for normal sexual and asexual development in addition to virulence and the utilization of alternative carbon sources.
Higher plants possess large multigene families encoding secreted class III peroxidase (Prx) proteins. In barley, two Prx cDNAs encoding HvPrx07 and HvPrx08 have been isolated and characterized to some extent with respect to a resistance-mediating function upon attack by the powdery-mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh). Here we present evidence for the tissue-specific accumulation of a new Prx mRNA, HvPrx40, in Bgh-attacked epidermis of barley (Hordeum vulgare). The encoded protein is predicted to be secreted into the apoplastic space of epidermal cells due to the absence of a C-terminal extension, which distinguishes it from other Prx proteins reported to accumulate in leaf epidermis. Transient overexpression of HvPrx40 enhanced the resistance of wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley against Blumeria graminis f.sp. tritici (wheat powdery mildew) and Bgh, respectively. These findings were complemented by transient-induced gene silencing showing hypersusceptibility of barley leaf epidermal cells to Bgh. The local accumulation of oxidized 3,3-diaminobenzidine that reflects H2O2 production at sites of attempted fungal penetration was not reduced in HvPrx40-silenced cells, suggesting a role of this peroxidase other than the production of reactive oxygen species.
Barley net- and spot-form of net blotch disease are caused by two formae of the hemibiotrophic fungus Pyrenophora teres (P. t. f. teres and P. t. f. maculata). In the present study, suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) was used in combination with quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase PCR to identify and profile the expression of defence response (DR) genes in the early stages of both barley-P. teres incompatible and compatible interactions. From a pool of 307 unique gene transcripts identified by SSH, 45 candidate DR genes were selected for temporal expression profiling in infected leaf epidermis. Differential expression profiles were observed for 28 of the selected candidates, which were grouped into clusters depending on their expression profiles within the first 48 h after inoculation. The expression profiles characteristic of each gene cluster were very similar in both barley-P. t. f. teres and barley-P. t. f. maculata interactions, indicating that resistance to both pathogens could be mediated by induction of the same group of DR genes. Chromosomal map locations for 21 DR genes were identified using four doubled-haploid mapping populations. The mapped DR genes were distributed across all seven barley chromosomes, with at least one gene mapping to within 15 cM of another on chromosomes 1H, 2H, 5H and 7H. Additionally, some DR genes appeared to co-localize with loci harbouring known resistance genes or quantitative trait loci for net blotch resistance on chromosomes 6H and 7H, as well as loci associated with resistance to other barley diseases. The DR genes are discussed with respect to their map locations and potential functional role in contributing to net blotch disease resistance.
A typical genetical genomics experiment results in four separate data sets; genotype, gene expression, higher-order phenotypic data and metadata that describe the protocols, processing and the array platform. Used in concert, these data sets provide the opportunity to perform genetic analysis at a systems level. Their predictive power is largely determined by the gene expression dataset where tens of millions of data points can be generated using currently available mRNA profiling technologies. Such large, multidimensional data sets often have value beyond that extracted during their initial analysis and interpretation, particularly if conducted on widely distributed reference genetic materials. Besides quality and scale, access to the data is of primary importance as accessibility potentially allows the extraction of considerable added value from the same primary dataset by the wider research community. Although the number of genetical genomics experiments in different plant species is rapidly increasing, none to date has been presented in a form that allows quick and efficient on-line testing for possible associations between genes, loci and traits of interest by an entire research community. Using a reference population of 150 recombinant doubled haploid barley lines we generated novel phenotypic, mRNA abundance and SNP-based genotyping data sets, added them to a considerable volume of legacy trait data and entered them into the GeneNetwork http://www.genenetwork.org. GeneNetwork is a unified on-line analytical environment that enables the user to test genetic hypotheses about how component traits, such as mRNA abundance, may interact to condition more complex biological phenotypes (higher-order traits). Here we describe these barley data sets and demonstrate some of the functionalities GeneNetwork provides as an easily accessible and integrated analytical environment for exploring them. By integrating barley genotypic, phenotypic and mRNA abundance data sets directly within GeneNetwork's analytical environment we provide simple web access to the data for the research community. In this environment, a combination of correlation analysis and linkage mapping provides the potential to identify and substantiate gene targets for saturation mapping and positional cloning. By integrating datasets from an unsequenced crop plant (barley) in a database that has been designed for an animal model species (mouse) with a well established genome sequence, we prove the importance of the concept and practice of modular development and interoperability of software engineering for biological data sets.
The aim of the study was to describe the molecular and biochemical interactions associated with amino acid biosynthesis and storage protein accumulation in the developing grains of field-grown barley. Our strategy was to analyse the transcription of genes associated with the biosynthesis of storage products during the development of field-grown barley grains using a grain-specific microarray assembled in our laboratory. To identify co-regulated genes, a distance matrix was constructed which enabled the identification of three clusters corresponding to early, middle, and late grain development. The gene expression pattern associated with the clusters was investigated using pathway-specific analysis with specific reference to the temporal expression levels of a range of genes involved mainly in the photosynthesis process, amino acid and storage protein metabolism. It is concluded that the grain-specific microarray is a reliable and cost-effective tool for monitoring temporal changes in the transcriptome of the major metabolic pathways in the barley grain. Moreover, it was sensitive enough to monitor differences in the gene expression profiles of different homologues from the storage protein families. The study described here should provide a strong complement to existing knowledge assisting further understanding of grain development and thereby provide a foundation for plant breeding towards storage proteins with improved nutritional quality.
SPINDLY (SPY) is an important regulator of plant development, and consists of an N-half tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domain containing 10 TPR motifs and a C-half catalytic domain, similar to O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) of animals. The best characterised role of SPY is a negative regulator of GA signalling, and all known spy alleles have been isolated based on increased GA response. Of the eight alleles that directly affect the TPR domain, all alter TPRs 6, 8 and/or 9. To test the hypothesis that a subset of TPRs, including 6, 8 and 9, are both essential and sufficient for the regulation of GA response, we overexpressed the full-length barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) SPY protein (HvSPY) and several deletion mutants in barley aleurone cells and in Arabidopsis wild type (WT) and spy-4 plants. Transient assays in barley aleurone cells, that also express endogenous HvSPY, demonstrated that introduced HvSPY and HvTPR inhibited GA(3)-induced alpha-amylase expression. With the exception of HvSPYDelta1-5, the other deletion proteins were partially active in the barley assay, including HvSPYDelta6-9 which lacks TPRs 6, 8 and 9. In Arabidopsis, analysis of seed germination under a range of conditions revealed that 35S:HvSPY increased seed dormancy. Hvspy-2, which lacks parts of the eighth and ninth TPRs, was able to partially complement all aspects of the spy-4 phenotype. In the presence of AtSPY, 35S:HvTPR caused some phenotypes consistent with a decrease in GA signalling, including increased seed sensitivity to paclobutrazol and delayed flowering. These plants also possessed distorted leaf morphology and altered epidermal cell shape. Thus, despite genetic analysis demonstrating that TPRs 6, 8 and 9 are required for regulation of GA signalling, our results suggest that these TPRs are neither absolutely essential nor sufficient for SPY activity.
Multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) transporters represent a large family in plants, but their functions are poorly understood. Here, we report the function of a rice (Oryza sativa) MATE gene (Os03g0216700, OsFRDL1), the closest homolog of barley (Hordeum vulgare) HvAACT1 (aluminum [Al]-activated citrate transporter 1), in terms of metal stress (iron [Fe] deficiency and Al toxicity). This gene was mainly expressed in the roots and the expression level was not affected by either Fe deficiency or Al toxicity. Knockout of this gene resulted in leaf chlorosis, lower leaf Fe concentration, higher accumulation of zinc and manganese concentration in the leaves, and precipitation of Fe in the root's stele. The concentration of citrate and ferric iron in the xylem sap was lower in the knockout line compared to the wild-type rice. Heterologous expression of OsFRDL1 in Xenopus oocytes showed transport activity for citrate. Immunostaining showed that OsFRDL1 was localized at the pericycle cells of the roots. On the other hand, there was no difference in the Al-induced secretion of citrate from the roots between the knockout line and the wild-type rice. Taken together, our results indicate that OsFRDL1 is a citrate transporter localized at the pericycle cells, which is necessary for efficient translocation of Fe to the shoot as a Fe-citrate complex.
Plant disease resistance governed by quantitative trait loci (QTL) is predicted to be effective against a broad spectrum of pathogens and long lasting. Use of these QTL to improve crop species, however, is hindered because the genes contributing to the trait are not known. Five disease resistance QTL that colocalized with defense response genes were accumulated by marker-aided selection to develop blast-resistant varieties. One advanced backcross line carrying the major-effect QTL on chromosome (chr) 8, which included a cluster of 12 germin-like protein (OsGLP) gene members, exhibited resistance to rice (Oryza sativa) blast disease over 14 cropping seasons. To determine if OsGLP members contribute to resistance and if the resistance was broad spectrum, a highly conserved portion of the OsGLP coding region was used as an RNA interference trigger to silence a few to all expressed chr 8 OsGLP family members. Challenge with two different fungal pathogens (causal agents of rice blast and sheath blight diseases) revealed that as more chr 8 OsGLP genes were suppressed, disease susceptibility of the plants increased. Of the 12 chr 8 OsGLPs, one clustered subfamily (OsGER4) contributed most to resistance. The similarities of sequence, gene organization, and roles in disease resistance of GLP family members in rice and other cereals, including barley (Hordeum vulgare) and wheat (Triticum aestivum), suggest that resistance contributed by the chr 8 OsGLP is a broad-spectrum, basal mechanism conserved among the Gramineae. Natural selection may have preserved a whole gene family to provide a stepwise, flexible defense response to pathogen invasion.
Down-regulation of endogenous genes via post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) is a key to the characterization of gene function in plants. Many RNA-based silencing mechanisms such as post-transcriptional gene silencing, co-suppression, quelling, and RNA interference (RNAi) have been discovered among species of different kingdoms (plants, fungi, and animals). One of the most interesting discover ies was RNAi, a sequence-specific gene-silencing mechanism initiated by the introduction of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), homologous in sequence to the silenced gene, which triggers degradation of mRNA. Infection of plants with modified viruses can also induce RNA silencing and is referred to as virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS). In contrast to insertional mutagenesis, these emerging new reverse genetic approaches represent a powerful tool for exploring gene function and for manipulating gene expression experimentally in cereal species such as barley and wheat. We examined how RNAi and VIGS have been used to assess gene function in barley and wheat, including molecular mechanisms involved in the process and available methodological elements, such as vectors, inoculation procedures, and analysis of silenced phenotypes.
The design of reverse genetic experiments that utilize transgenic approaches often requires transgenes to be expressed in a predefined pattern and there is limited information regarding the gene expression profile for specific promoters. It is important that expression patterns are predetermined in the specific genotype targeted for transformation because the same promoter-transgene construct can produce different expression patterns in different host species. This chapter compares constitutive, targeted, or inducible promoters that have been characterized in specific cereal species.
Ever since the first developments in plant transformation technology using model plant species in the early 1980s, there has been a body of plant science research devoted to adapting these techniques to the transformation of crop plants. For some crop species progress was relatively rapid, but in other crop groups such as the small grain cereals, which were not readily amenable to culture in vitro and were not natural hosts to Agrobacterium, it has taken nearly two decades to develop reliable and robust transformation methods.In the following chapters of this book, transformation procedures for small grain cereals are presented, together with methods for gene and protein expression and the characterization of transgenic plants. In this introductory chapter we try to put these later chapters into context, giving an overview of the development of transformation technology for small grain cereals, discussing some of the pros and cons of the techniques and what limitations still exist.
Plants have evolved complex regulatory mechanisms to control the defense response against microbial attack. Both temporal and spatial gene expression are tightly regulated in response to pathogen ingress, modulating both positive and negative control of defense. BLUFENSIN1 (BLN1), a small peptide belonging to a novel family of proteins in barley (Hordeum vulgare), is highly induced by attack from the obligate biotrophic fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh), casual agent of powdery mildew disease. Computational interrogation of the Bln1 gene family determined that members reside solely in the BEP clade of the Poaceae family, specifically, barley, rice (Oryza sativa), and wheat (Triticum aestivum). Barley stripe mosaic virus-induced gene silencing of Bln1 enhanced plant resistance in compatible interactions, regardless of the presence or absence of functional Mla coiled-coil, nucleotide-binding site, Leu-rich repeat alleles, indicating that BLN1 can function in an R-gene-independent manner. Likewise, transient overexpression of Bln1 significantly increased accessibility toward virulent Bgh. Moreover, silencing in plants harboring the Mlo susceptibility factor decreased accessibility to Bgh, suggesting that BLN1 functions in parallel with or upstream of MLO to modulate penetration resistance. Collectively, these data suggest that the grass-specific Bln1 negatively impacts basal defense against Bgh.
Most plants accumulate silicon in their bodies, and this is thought to be important for resistance against biotic and abiotic stresses; however, the molecular mechanisms for Si uptake and accumulation are poorly understood. Here, we describe an Si influx transporter, HvLsi1, in barley. This protein is homologous to rice influx transporter OsLsi1 with 81% identity, and belongs to a Nod26-like major intrinsic protein sub-family of aquaporins. Heterologous expression in both Xenopus laevis oocytes and a rice mutant defective in Si uptake showed that HvLsi1 has transport activity for silicic acid. Expression of HvLsi1 was detected specifically in the basal root, and the expression level was not affected by Si supply. There was a weak correlation between Si uptake and the expression level of HvLsi1 in eight cultivars tested. In the seminal roots, HvLsi1 is localized on the plasma membrane on the distal side of epidermal and cortical cells. HvLsi1 is also located in lateral roots on the plasma membrane of hypodermal cells. These cell-type specificity of localization and expression patterns of HvLsi1 are different from those of OsLsi1. These observations indicate that HvLsi1 is a silicon influx transporter that is involved in radial transport of Si through the epidermal and cortical layers of the basal roots of barley.
Microspore embryogenesis (ME) is a process in which the gametophytic pollen programme of the microspore is reoriented towards a new embryo sporophytic programme. This process requires a stress treatment, usually performed in the anther or isolated microspores for several days. Despite the universal use of stress to induce ME, very few studies have addressed the physiological processes that occur in the anther during this step. To further understand the processes triggered by stress treatment, we followed the response of anthers by measuring the expression of stress-related genes in two barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivars differing in their ME response. Genes encoding enzymes involved in oxidative stress (glutathione-S-transferase, GST; oxalate oxidase, OxO), in the synthesis of jasmonic acid (13-lipoxygenase, Lox; allene oxide cyclase, AOC; allene oxide synthase, AOS) and in the phenylpropanoid pathway (phenylalanine ammonia lyase, PAL), as well as those encoding PR proteins (Barwin, chitinase 2b, Chit 2b; glucanase, Gluc; basic pathogenesis-related protein 1, PR1; pathogenesis-related protein 10, PR10) were up-regulated in whole anthers upon stress treatment, indicating that anther perceives stress and reacts by triggering general plant defence mechanisms. In particular, both OxO and Chit 2b genes are good markers of anther reactivity owing to their high level of induction during the stress treatment. The effect of copper sulphate appeared to limit the expression of defence-related genes, which may be correlated with its positive effect on the yield of microspore embryos.
At harvest, barley seeds are dormant because their germination is difficult above 20 degrees C. Incubation of primary dormant seeds at 30 degrees C, a temperature at which they do not germinate, results in a loss of their ability to germinate at 20 degrees C. This phenomenon which corresponds to an induction of a secondary dormancy is already observed after a pre-treatment at 30 degrees C as short as 4-6 h, and is optimal after 24-48 h. It is associated with maintenance of a high level of embryo ABA content during seed incubation at 30 degrees C, and after seed transfer at 20 degrees C, while ABA content decreases rapidly in embryos of primary dormant seeds placed directly at 20 degrees C. Induction of secondary dormancy also results in an increase in embryo responsiveness to ABA at 20 degrees C. Application of ABA during seed treatment at 30 degrees C has no significant additive effect on the further germination at 20 degrees C. In contrast, incubation of primary dormant seeds at 20 degrees C for 48 and 72 h in the presence of ABA inhibits further germination on water similarly to 24-48 h incubation at 30 degrees C. However fluridone, an inhibitor of ABA synthesis, applied during incubation of the grains at 30 degrees C has only a slight effect on ABA content and secondary dormancy. Expression of genes involved in ABA metabolism (HvABA8'OH-1, HvNCED1 and HvNCED2) was studied in relation to the expression of primary and secondary dormancies. The results presented suggest a specific role for HvNCED1 and HvNCED2 in regulation of ABA synthesis in secondary seed dormancy.
BAX inhibitor-1 (BI-1) is a conserved cell death regulator protein that inhibits mammalian BAX-induced cell death in yeast, animals and plants. Additionally, HvBI-1 suppresses defense responses and resistance to the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh) when over-expressed in single epidermal cells of barley. To test the potential of ectopic expression of BI-1 to influence fungal interactions with crop plants, we produced stable transgenic barley plants expressing a green fluorescing protein (GFP) fusion of HvBI-1 under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. GFP-HvBI-1 plants were fertile and did not display obvious developmental alterations when compared to wild type parents. GFP-HvBI-1 plants were more resistant to single cell death induced by ballistic delivery of a mammalian proapototic BAX expression construct and more susceptible to biotrophic Bgh. Microscopic observation of the interaction phenotype revealed that enhanced susceptibility, i.e. a higher degree of successful establishment of haustoria in epidermal cells, was associated with a reduced frequency of hypersensitive cell death reactions. In contrast, young seedlings of GFP-HvBI-1 barley were more resistant to Fusarium graminearum than wild type or azygous controls. Hence the effect of GFP-HvBI-1 on the outcome of a particular plant-fungus interaction appeared dependent on the lifestyle of the pathogen.
The stem rust resistance gene Rpg1 has protected North American barley cultivars from significant yield losses for over 65 years. The remarkable durability of this gene warrants further study as to its possible origin and allelic variation. Eight Swiss barley (Hordeum vulgare) landraces and eight wild barley (H. vulgare subsp. spontaneum) accessions from diverse geographic regions were analyzed to uncover new alleles of Rpg1 and learn about its possible origin. The two germplasm groups included accessions that were resistant and susceptible to Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici pathotype MCCF. Allele-specific primers were utilized to amplify 1 kbp overlapping fragments spanning the Rpg1 gene and sequenced if a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) fragment was generated. Variation among the PCR products revealed significant polymorphisms among these Hordeum accessions. Landraces and wild barley accessions susceptible to pathotype MCCF exhibited the highest degree of Rpg1 polymorphism. One resistant landrace (Hv672) and one resistant wild barley accession (WBDC040) yielded all seven Rpg1-specific PCR fragments, but only landrace Hv672 coded for an apparently functional Rpg1 as determined by comparison to previously characterized resistant and susceptible alleles and also resistance to HKHJ, a stem rust pathotype that can specifically detect Rpg1 in the presence of other resistance genes. Accessions resistant to stem rust pathotype MCCF, but completely lacking Rpg1-specific PCR amplification and hybridization with an Rpg1-specific probe, suggested the presence of stem rust resistant gene(s) different from Rpg1 in the Hordeum germplasm pool. Some Rpg1 alleles that retained the ability to autophosphorylate did not confer resistance to Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici pathotype MCCF, confirming our previous observations that autophosphorylation is essential, but not sufficient for disease resistance. Thus, the RPG1 protein plays a complex role in the stem rust disease resistance-signaling pathway.
Aphids are, arguably, the single most damaging group of agricultural insect pests throughout the world. Plant tolerance, which is a plant response to an insect pest, is viewed as an excellent management strategy. Developing testable hypotheses based on genome-wide and more focused methods will help in understanding the molecular underpinnings of plant tolerance to aphid herbivory. As a first step in this process, we undertook transcript profiling with Affymetrix GeneChip Barley Genome arrays using RNA extracted from tissues of tolerant and susceptible genotypes collected at three hours, three days and six days after Diuraphis noxia introduction. Acquired data were compared to identify changes unique to the tolerant barley at each harvest date. Transcript abundance of 4086 genes was differentially changed over the three harvest dates in tolerant and susceptible barley in response to D. noxia feeding. Across the three harvest dates, the greatest number of genes was differentially expressed in both barleys at three days after aphid introduction. A total of 909 genes showed significant levels of change in the tolerant barley in response to D. noxia feeding as compared to susceptible plants infested with aphids. Many of these genes could be assigned to specific metabolic categories, including several associated with plant defense and scavenging of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Interestingly, two peroxidase genes, designated HvPRXA1 and HvPRXA2, were up-regulated to a greater degree in response to D. noxia feeding on tolerant barley plants, indicating that specific peroxidases could be important for the tolerance process. These findings suggest that the ability to elevate and sustain levels of ROS-scavenging enzymes could play an important role in the tolerant response.
Transfer cells have specializations that facilitate the transport of solutes across plant exchange surfaces. ZmMRP-1 is a maize (Zea mays) endosperm transfer cell-specific transcriptional activator that plays a central role in the regulatory pathways controlling transfer cell differentiation and function. The present work investigates the signals controlling the expression of ZmMRP-1 through the production of transgenic lines of maize, Arabidopsis, tobacco and barley containing ZmMRP-1promoter:GUS reporter constructs. The GUS signal predominantly appeared in regions of active transport between source and sink tissues, including nematode-induced feeding structures and at sites of vascular connection between developing organs and the main plant vasculature. In those cases, promoter induction was associated with the initial developmental stages of transport structures. Significantly, transfer cells also differentiated in these regions suggesting that, independent of species, location or morphological features, transfer cells might differentiate in a similar way under the influence of conserved induction signals. In planta and yeast experiments showed that the promoter activity is modulated by carbohydrates, glucose being the most effective inducer.
Nicotianamine (NA), a metal chelator ubiquitous in higher plants, serves as an antihypertensive substance in humans. To engineer a novel antihypertensive rice that contains larger amounts of NA, the barley NA synthase gene, HvNAS1, was introduced into rice via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The introduced HvNAS1 was driven by pGluB-1, which induces strong gene expression in the endosperm of rice seeds. The NA content in transgenic rice seeds was up to fourfold greater than that in non-transgenic rice seeds. The Cre/loxP DNA excision (CLX) system was used to remove the selectable marker gene for antibiotic resistance. Furthermore, the transgenic rice was crossed with a cleistogamous mutant to prevent gene transfer via pollen dispersal. These two modifications may minimize public concern with regard to the use of this transgenic rice.
Gametophytic self-incompatibility (GSI) in the grasses is controlled by a distinct two-locus genetic system governed by the multiallelic loci S and Z. We have employed diploid Hordeum bulbosum as a model species for identifying the self-incompatibility (SI) genes and for elucidating the molecular mechanisms of the two-locus SI system in the grasses. In this study, we attempted to identify S haplotype-specific cDNAs expressed in pistils and anthers at the flowering stage in H. bulbosum, using the AFLP-based mRNA fingerprinting (AMF, also called cDNA-AFLP) technique. We used the AMF-derived DNA clones as markers for fine mapping of the S locus, and found that the locus resided in a chromosomal region displaying remarkable suppression of recombination, encompassing a large physical region. Furthermore, we identified three AMF-derived markers displaying complete linkage to the S locus, although they showed no significant homology with genes of known functions. Two of these markers showed expression patterns that were specific to the reproductive organs (pistil or anther), suggesting that they could be potential candidates for the S gene.
Leaf senescence is the final developmental stage of a leaf. The progression of barley primary leaf senescence was followed by measuring the senescence-specific decrease in chlorophyll content and photosystem II efficiency. In order to isolate novel factors involved in leaf senescence, a differential display approach with mRNA populations from young and senescing primary barley leaves was applied. In this approach, 90 senescence up-regulated cDNAs were identified. Nine of these clones were, after sequence analyses, further characterized. The senescence-associated expression was confirmed by Northern analyses or quantitative RealTime-PCR. In addition, involvement of the phytohormones ethylene and abscisic acid in regulation of these nine novel senescence-induced cDNA fragments was investigated. Two cDNA clones showed homologies to genes with a putative regulatory function. Two clones possessed high homologies to barley retroelements, and five clones may be involved in degradation or transport processes. One of these genes was further analysed. It encodes an ADP ribosylation factor 1-like protein (HvARF1) and includes sequence motifs representing a myristoylation site and four typical and well conserved ARF-like protein domains. The localization of the protein was investigated by confocal laser scanning microscopy of onion epidermal cells after particle bombardment with chimeric HvARF1-GFP constructs. Possible physiological roles of these nine novel SAGs during barley leaf senescence are discussed.
Nitrogen availability has a strong influence on developmental processes in plants. We show that the time of nitrogen supply regulates the course of leaf senescence in flag leaves of Hordeum vulgare. The senescence-specific decrease in chlorophyll content and photosystem II efficiency is clearly delayed when plants are fertilised with nitrate at the onset of leaf senescence. Concurrently, the additional supply of nitrate affects expression patterns of two marker genes of nitrogen metabolism. As shown by quantitative RT-PCR analyses, senescence-specific downregulation of plastidic glutamine synthetase (GS2) and senescence-specific upregulation of lysine-ketoglutarate reductase/saccharopine dehydrogenase (LKR/SDH) are both clearly retarded. Depletion of nitrogen in experiments using hydroponic growth systems results in premature primary leaf senescence. The already started senescence processes can be even reversed by later nitrogen addition, as proved by a further increase in photosystem II efficiency and chlorophyll content, returning to the high values of controls which had not been deprived of nitrogen. Although both addition of nitrate or ammonium effectively reversed nitrogen depletion-induced primary leaf senescence, addition of urea did not. Additionally, effects of nitrogen supply on the course of leaf senescence were analysed in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. Leaves of A. thaliana show the same reversion of senescence processes after receiving additional nitrogen supply, indicating that the nitrogen response of leaf development is conserved in different plant species.
Extensive studies have been undertaken on senescence processes in barley and wheat and their importance for the nitrogen use efficiency of these crop plants. During the senescence processes, proteins are degraded and nutrients are re-mobilised from senescing leaves to other organs, especially the developing grain. Most of the proteins degraded reside in the chloroplasts, with Rubisco constituting the most dominant protein fraction. Despite intensive studies, the proteases responsible for Rubisco degradation have not yet been identified. Evidence for degradation of stromal proteins outside of chloroplasts is summarised. Rubisco is thought to be released from chloroplasts into vesicles containing stroma material (RCB = Rubisco-containing bodies). These vesicles may then take different routes for their degradation. Transcriptome analyses on barley and wheat senescence have identified genes involved in degradative, metabolic and regulatory processes that could be used in future strategies aimed at modifying the senescence process. The breeding of crops for characters related to senescence processes, e.g. higher yields and better nutrient use efficiency, is complex. Such breeding has to cope with the dilemma that delayed senescence, which could lead to higher yields, is correlated with a decrease in nutrient use efficiency. Pinpointing regulatory genes involved in senescence might lead to tools that could effectively overcome this dilemma.
Barley, one of the major small grain crops, is especially important in climatically demanding agricultural areas of the world, with multiple uses within food, feed, and beverage. The barley endosperm is further of special scientific interest due to its three aleurone cell layers, with the potential of bringing forward the molecular understanding of seed development and cell specification from Arabidopsis and maize. Work done in Arabidopsis and maize indicate the presence of conserved seed developmental pathways where Crinkly4 (Cr4), Defective kernel1 (Dek1), and Supernumerary aleurone layer1 (Sal1) are key players. With the use of microscopy, a comprehensive phenotypic characterization of the barley defective seed5 (des5) mutant is presented here. The analysis further extends to molecular quantification of gene expression changes in the des5 mutant by qRT-PCR. Moreover, full-length genomic sequences of the barley orthologues were generated and these were annotated as HvDek1, HvCr4, and HvSal1. The most striking results in this study are the patchy reduction in number of aleurone cells, rudimentary anticlinal aleurone cell walls, and the specific change of HvCr4 expression compared to HvDek1 and HvSal1. The data presented support the involvement of Hvdes5 in establishing aleurone cells. Finally, how these results might affect the current model of aleurone and epidermal cell identity and development is discussed with a speculation regarding a possible role of Des5 in regulating cell division/ secondary cell wall building.
Nucellar projection (NP) and endosperm transfer cells (ETC) are essential tissues in growing barley (Hordeum vulgare) grains, responsible for nutrient transfer from maternal to filial tissues, endosperm/embryo nutrition, and grain development. A laser microdissection pressure catapulting-based transcriptome analysis was established to study NP and ETC separately using a barley 12K macroarray. A major challenge was to isolate high-quality mRNA from preembedded, fixed tissue while maintaining tissue integrity. We show that probes generated from fixed and embedded tissue sections represent largely the transcriptome (>70%) of nonchemically treated and nonamplified references. In NP, the top-down gradient of cellular differentiation is reflected by the expression of C3HC4-type ubiquitin ligases and different histone genes, cell wall biosynthesis and expansin/extensin genes, as well as genes involved in programmed cell death-related proteolysis coupled to nitrogen remobilization, indicating distinct areas simultaneously undergoing mitosis, cell elongation, and disintegration. Activated gene expression related to gibberellin synthesis and function suggests a regulatory role for gibberellins in establishment of the differentiation gradient. Up-regulation of plasmalemma-intrinsic protein and tonoplast-intrinsic protein genes indicates involvement in nutrient transfer and/or unloading. In ETC, AP2/EREBP-like transcription factors and ethylene functions are transcriptionally activated, a response possibly coupled to activated defense mechanisms. Transcriptional activation of nucleotide sugar metabolism may be attributed to ascorbate synthesis and/or cell wall biosynthesis. These processes are potentially controlled by trehalose-6-P synthase/phosphatase, as suggested by expression of their respective genes. Up-regulation of amino acid permeases in ETC indicates important roles in active nutrient uptake from the apoplastic space into the endosperm.
Most cultivars of higher plants display poor regeneration capacity of explants due to yet unknown genotypic determined mechanisms. This implies that technologies such as transformation often are restricted to model cultivars with good tissue characteristics. In the present paper, we add further evidence to our previous hypothesis that regeneration from young barley embryos derived from in vitro-cultured ovules is genotype independent. We investigated the ovule culture ability of four cultivars Femina, Salome, Corniche and Alexis, known to have poor response in other types of tissue culture, and compared that to the data for the model cultivar, Golden Promise. Subsequently, we analyzed the transformation efficiencies of the four cultivars using the protocol for Agrobacterium infection of ovules, previously developed for Golden Promise. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL0, carrying the binary vector pVec8-GFP harboring a hygromycin resistance gene and the green fluorescence protein (GFP) gene, was used for transformation. The results strongly indicate that the tissue culture response level in ovule culture is genotype independent. However, we did observe differences between cultivars with respect to frequencies of GFP-expressing embryos and frequencies of regeneration from the GFP-expressing embryos under hygromycin selection. The final frequencies of transformed plants per ovule were lower for the four cultivars than that for Golden Promise but the differences were not statistically significant. We conclude that ovule culture transformation can be used successfully to transform cultivars other than Golden Promise. Similar to that observed for Golden Promise, the ovule culture technique allows for the rapid and direct generation of high quality transgenic plants.
Chloroplasts are among the main targets of cytokinin action in the plant cell. We report here on the activation of transcription by cytokinin as detected by run-on assays with chloroplasts isolated from apical parts of first leaves detached from 9-d-old barley (Hordeum vulgare) seedlings and incubated for 3 h on a 2.2 x 10(-5) m solution of benzyladenine (BA). Northern-blot analysis also detected a BA-induced increase in the accumulation of chloroplast mRNAs. A prerequisite for BA activation of chloroplast transcription was preincubation of leaves for 24 h on water in the light, resulting in a decreased chloroplast transcription and a drastic accumulation of abscisic acid. Cytokinin enhanced the transcription of several chloroplast genes above the initial level measured before BA treatment, and in the case of rrn16 and petD even before preincubation. Cytokinin effects on basal (youngest), middle, and apical (oldest) segments of primary leaves detached from plants of different ages revealed an age dependence of chloroplast gene response to BA. BA-induced stimulation of transcription of rrn16, rrn23, rps4, rps16, rbcL, atpB, and ndhC required light during the period of preincubation and was further enhanced by light during the incubation on BA, whereas activation of transcription of trnEY, rps14, rpl16, matK, petD, and petLG depended on light during both periods. Our data reveal positive and differential effects of cytokinin on the transcription of chloroplast genes that were dependent on light and on the age (developmental stage) of cells and leaves.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) leaf stripe is caused by the seed-borne fungus Pyrenophora graminea. We investigated microscopically and molecularly the reaction of barley embryos to leaf stripe inoculation. In the resistant genotype NIL3876-Rdg2a, fungal growth ceased at the scutellar node of the embryo, while in the susceptible near-isogenic line (NIL) Mirco-rdg2a fungal growth continued past the scutellar node and into the embryo. Pathogen-challenged embryos of resistant and susceptible NILs showed different levels of UV autofluorescence and toluidine blue staining, indicating differential accumulation of phenolic compounds. Suppression subtractive hybridization and cDNA amplified fragment-length polymorphism (AFLP) analyses of embryos identified P. graminea-induced and P. graminea-repressed barley genes. In addition, cDNA-AFLP analysis identified six pathogenicity-associated fungal genes expressed during barley infection but at low to undetectable levels during growth on artificial media. Microarrays representing the entire set of differentially expressed cDNA-AFLP fragments and 100 barley homologues of previously described defence-related genes were used to study gene expression changes at 7 and 14 days after inoculation in the resistant and susceptible NILs. A total of 171 significantly modulated barley genes were identified and assigned to four groups based on timing and genotype dependence of expression. Analysis of the changes in gene expression during the barley resistance response to leaf stripe suggests that the Rdg2a-mediated response includes cell-wall reinforcement, signal transduction, generation of reactive oxygen species, cell protection, jasmonate signalling and expression of plant effector genes. The identification of genes showing leaf stripe inoculation or resistance-dependent expression sets the stage for further dissection of the resistance response of barley embryo cells to leaf stripe.
Non-synonymous coding mutations in a gene change the resulting protein, no matter where it is expressed, but the effects of cis-regulatory mutations could be spatially or temporally limited - a phenomenon termed limited pleiotropy. Here, we report the genome-wide occurrence of limited pleiotropy of cis-regulatory mutations in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) using Affymetrix analysis of 22,840 genes in a population of 139 doubled haploid lines derived from a cross between the cultivars Steptoe (St) and Morex (Mx). We identified robust cis-acting expression regulators that segregate as major genes in two successive ontogenetic stages: germinating embryo tissues and seedling leaves from the embryonic axis. We show that these polymorphisms may be consistent in both tissues or may cause a dramatic change in transcript abundance in one tissue but not in another. We also show that the parental allele that increases expression can vary with the tissue, suggesting nucleotide polymorphism in enhancer sequences. Because of the limited pleiotropy of cis-regulating mutations, the number of cis expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTLs) discovered by 'genetical genomics' is strongly affected by the particular tissue or developmental stage studied. Given that limited pleiotropy is a common feature of cis-regulatory mutations in barley, we predict that the phenomenon would be relevant to developmental and/or tissue-specific interactions across wide taxonomic boundaries in both plants and animals.
Drought is a serious, worldwide problem for crop production and also affects yields of barley and wheat, together with other stressors such as frost, viral diseases, or fungal pathogens. Although a number of candidate genes have been identified by transcriptome approaches in recent years, only very few have been tested in functional assays for a beneficial effect on drought tolerance. Here, a transient assay system in microprojectile-bombarded barley leaves is described that allows the functional testing of dehydration stress-related candidate genes by RNA interference (RNAi) or overexpression. Cellular stress or damage in dedydrated leaves is reported by a reduced accumulation of slowly maturing, native red-fluorescing protein DsRed that is known to be sensitive to denaturing conditions. After a dehydration-stress period of 4 d during which the relative fresh weight of leaves was kept at 60-66% of initial fresh weight, a reproducible reduction of normalized DsRed fluorescence was observed. In order to obtain proof of concept, a number of barley mRNAs homologous to drought response genes were selected and targeted by transient induced gene silencing (TIGS). TIGS of four tested genes resulted in a significantly stronger decrease of normalized DsRed fluorescence in dehydration-stressed leaves, whereas they had no effect in fully turgescent control leaves. These genes encode barley drought-responsive factor HvDRF1 (DREB2-like), dehydrin 6, late embryogenesis-abundant protein HVA1, and the vacuolar sodium/proton antiporter HvHNX1. The four targeted transcripts were also found to accumulate rapidly in dehydration-stressed barley leaf segments. The results suggest a value of the TIGS system for functional pre-screening of larger numbers of drought or dehydration stress-related candidate genes in barley.
Sieve tubes are transport conduits not only for photoassimilates but also for macromolecules and other compounds that are involved in sieve tube maintenance and systemic signalling. In order to gain sufficient amounts of pure phloem exudates from barley plants for analyses of the protein and mRNA composition, a previously described stylectomy set-up was optimized. Aphids were placed in sealed cages, which, immediately after microcauterization of the stylets, were flooded with water-saturated silicon oil. The exuding phloem sap was collected with a capillary connected to a pump. Using up to 30 plants and 600 aphids (Rhopalosiphum padi) in parallel, an average of 10 mul of phloem sap could be obtained within 6 h of sampling. In first analyses of the macromolecular content, eight so far unknown phloem mRNAs were identified by cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism. Transcripts in barley phloem exudates are related to metabolism, signalling, and pathogen defence, for example coding for a protein kinase and a pathogen- and insect-responsive WIR1A (wheat-induced resistance 1A)-like protein. Further, one-dimensional gel electrophoresis and subsequent partial sequencing by mass spectrometry led to the identification of seven major proteins with putative functions in stress responses and transport of mRNAs, proteins, and sugars. Two of the discovered proteins probably represent isoforms of a new phloem-mobile sucrose transporter. Notably, two-dimensional electrophoresis confirmed that there are >250 phloem proteins awaiting identification in future studies.
Gibberellins (GAs) regulate many aspects of plant development, such as germination, growth, and flowering. The barley (Hordeum vulgare) Amy32b alpha-amylase promoter contains at least five cis-acting elements that govern its GA-induced expression. Our previous studies indicate that a barley WRKY gene, HvWRKY38, and its rice (Oryza sativa) ortholog, OsWRKY71, block GA-induced expression of Amy32b-GUS. In this work, we investigated the functional and physical interactions of HvWRKY38 with another repressor and two activators in barley. HvWRKY38 blocks the inductive activities of SAD (a DOF protein) and HvGAMYB (a R2R3 MYB protein) when either of these proteins is present individually. However, SAD and HvGAMYB together overcome the inhibitory effect of HvWRKY38. Yet, the combination of HvWRKY38 and BPBF (another DOF protein) almost diminishes the synergistic effect of SAD and HvGAMYB transcriptional activators. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays indicate that HvWRKY38 blocks the GA-induced expression of Amy32b by interfering with the binding of HvGAMYB to the cis-acting elements in the alpha-amylase promoter. The physical interaction of HvWRKY38 and BPBF repressors is demonstrated via bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays. These data suggest that the expression of Amy32b is modulated by protein complexes that contain either activators (e.g. HvGAMYB and SAD) or repressors (e.g. HvWRKY38 and BPBF). The relative amounts of the repressor or activator complexes binding to the Amy32b promoter regulate its expression level in barley aleurone cells.
Manganese (Mn) deficiency is an important plant nutritional disorder in many parts of the world. Barley (Hordeum vulgare) genotypes differ considerably in their ability to grow in soils with low Mn(2+) availability. Differential genotypic Mn efficiency can be attributed to differences in Mn(2+) uptake kinetics in the low nanomolar concentration range. However, the molecular basis for these differences has not yet been clarified. We present here the identification and characterization of the first barley gene encoding a plasma membrane-localized metal transport protein able to transport Mn(2+). The gene is designated HvIRT1 (for IRON-REGULATED TRANSPORTER1) because it belongs to the ZIP gene family and has a high similarity to rice (Oryza sativa) OsIRT1. A novel yeast uptake assay based on inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry analysis of 31 different metal and metalloid ions showed that the HvIRT1 protein, in addition to Mn(2+), also transported Fe(2+)/Fe(3+), Zn(2+), and Cd(2+). Both Mn and iron deficiency induced an up-regulation of HvIRT1 in two barley genotypes differing in Mn efficiency, but the expression levels in all cases were highest (up to 40%) in the Mn-efficient genotype. The higher expression of HvIRT1 correlated with an increased Mn(2+) uptake rate. We conclude that HvIRT1 is an important component controlling Mn(2+) uptake in barley roots and contributes to genotypic differences in Mn(2+) uptake kinetics.
The effects of synchronous photo (16 h daylength) and thermo (2 degrees C daily fluctuation) cycles on flowering time were compared with constant light and temperature treatments using two barley mapping populations derived from the facultative cultivar 'Dicktoo'. The 'Dicktoo'x'Morex' (spring) population (DM) segregates for functional differences in alleles of candidate genes for VRN-H1, VRN-H3, PPD-H1, and PPD-H2. The first two loci are associated with the vernalization response and the latter two with photoperiod sensitivity. The 'Dicktoo'x'Kompolti korai' (winter) population (DK) has a known functional polymorphism only at VRN-H2, a locus associated with vernalization sensitivity. Flowering time in both populations was accelerated when there was no fluctuating factor in the environment and was delayed to the greatest extent with the application of synchronous photo and thermo cycles. Alleles at VRN-H1, VRN-H2, PPD-H1, and PPD-H2--and their interactions--were found to be significant determinants of the increase/decrease in days to flower. Under synchronous photo and thermo cycles, plants with the Dicktoo (recessive) VRN-H1 allele flowered significantly later than those with the Kompolti korai (recessive) or Morex (dominant) VRN-H1 alleles. The Dicktoo VRN-H1 allele, together with the late-flowering allele at PPD-H1 and PPD-H2, led to the greatest delay. The application of synchronous photo and thermo cycles changed the epistatic interaction between VRN-H2 and VRN-H1: plants with Dicktoo type VRN-H1 flowered late, regardless of the allele phase at VRN-H2. Our results are novel in demonstrating the large effects of minor variations in environmental signals on flowering time: for example, a 2 degrees C thermo cycle caused a delay in flowering time of 70 d as compared to a constant temperature.
The BARE retrotransposon family comprises more than 10(4) copies in the barley (Hordeum vulgare) genome. The element is bounded by long terminal repeats (LTRs, 1829 bp) containing promoters and RNA-processing motifs required for retrotransposon replication. Members of the BARE1 subfamily are transcribed, translated, and form virus-like particles. Very similar retrotransposons are expressed as RNA and protein in other cereals and grasses. The BARE2 subfamily is, however, non-autonomous because it cannot produce the GAG capsid protein. The pattern of plant development implies that inheritance of integrated copies should critically depend, in the first instance, on cell-specific and tissue-specific expression patterns. We examined transcription of BARE within different barley tissues and analyzed the promoter function of the BARE LTR. The two promoters of the LTR vary independently in activity by tissue. In embryos TATA1 was almost inactive, whereas transcription in callus appears to be less tightly regulated than in other tissues. Deletion analyses of the LTR uncovered strong positive and negative regulatory elements. The promoters produce multiple groups of transcripts that are distinct by their start and stop points, by their sequences, and by whether they are polyadenylated. Some of these groups do not share the common end structures needed for template switching during replication. Only about 15% of BARE transcripts are polyadenylated. The data suggest that distinct subfamilies of transcripts may play independent roles in providing the proteins and replication templates for the BARE retrotransposon life cycle.
Long-term differences in photosynthesis, respiration and growth of plants receiving distinct nitrogen (N) sources imply that N metabolism generates signals that regulate metabolism and development. The molecular basis of these signals remains unclear. Here we studied the gene expression profiles of barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Graphic) seedlings fertilized either with ammonium (NH4+), with ammonium and nitrate (NH4+:NO3-), or with nitrate (NO3-) only. Our transcriptome analysis after 48 h of growth in these N sources showed major changes in the expression of genes involved in N metabolism (nitrate reductase), signalling (protein kinases and protein phosphatases), photosynthesis (chlorophyll a/b-binding protein and a PsbQ domain), where increases in NO3- as compared with NH4+ were observed. Moreover, NH4+ assimilation induced genes participating in C and sugars metabolism (phosphoglycerate kinase, glucosyltranferase and galactokinase), respiration (cytochrome c oxidase), protein fate (heat shock proteins) and development (MTN3-like protein). These changes in gene expression could well explain the long-term growth depression observed in NH4+ plants. Even if a few genes participating in protein fate (proteases) and development (OsNAC5) were upregulated in NH4+ as compared with NH4+:NO3-, the general pattern of expression was quite similar between these two N sources. Taken together, these results indicated that other downstream mechanisms should be involved in the synergetic long-term response of NH4+:NO3-.
To understand the function of the gibberellin (GA) transduction pathway during germination, the transcription factor gene GAMYB, which responds to the GA signal, has been studied in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) seeds. This gene, called LeGAMYBL1 is present as a single copy, and is expressed in both the embryo and endosperm during seed germination in gib-1 mutant (non-GA producing) and wild-type (cv. Glamour) seeds. It is also expressed in young vegetative tissues. There is an 83% similarity in the amino acid sequence of the binding domain of the protein that is encoded by this tomato GAMYB-like gene when compared to that encoded by the GAMYB genes from barley, rice and Arabidopsis. In both mutant and wild-type intact tomato seeds, LeGAMYBL1 expression increases during germination, is upregulated by gibberellic acid (GA(3)), and declines thereafter. LeGAMYBL1 transcripts are also present in non-germinating gib-1 mutant seeds imbibed in water, and they are upregulated by GA(3) during promotion of germination. However, dissected gib-1 embryos complete germination when imbibed in either water or GA(3), with almost no difference in the amount of mRNA transcribed by the LeGAMYBL1 gene during this event. This is indicative that GA(3) is not required for the expression of the LeGAMYBL1 gene, which is likely necessary, but not sufficient, for germination to be completed, especially in the intact seed. The germination-inhibiting hormone abscisic acid does not influence expression of this gene. Expression of the LeGAMYB1 gene also occurs in the endosperm, but there is no correlation between its expression and GA-promoted expression of the cell-wall-degrading enzyme endo-beta-mannanase.
We previously mapped mRNA transcript abundance traits (expression-QTL or eQTL) using the Barley1 Affymetrix array and 'whole plant' tissue from 139 progeny of the Steptoe x Morex (St/Mx) reference barley mapping population. Of the 22,840 probesets (genes) on the array, 15,987 reported transcript abundance signals that were suitable for eQTL analysis, and this revealed a genome-wide distribution of 23,738 significant eQTLs. Here we have explored the potential of using these mRNA abundance eQTL traits as surrogates for the identification of candidate genes underlying the interaction between barley and the wheat stem rust fungus Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici. We re-analysed quantitative 'resistance phenotype' data collected on this population in 1990/1991 and identified six loci associated with barley's reaction to stem rust. One of these coincided with the major stem rust resistance locus Rpg1, that we had previously positionally cloned using this population. Correlation analysis between phenotype values for rust infection and mRNA abundance values reported by the 22,840 GeneChip probe sets placed Rpg1, which is on the Barley1 GeneChip, in the top five candidate genes for the major QTL on chromosome 7H corresponding to the location of Rpg1. A second co-located with the rpg4/Rpg5 stem rust resistance locus that has been mapped in a different population and the remaining four were novel. Correlation analyses identified candidate genes for the rpg4/Rpg5 locus on chromosome 5H. By combining our data with additional published mRNA profiling data sets, we identify a putative sensory transduction histidine kinase as a strong candidate for a novel resistance locus on chromosome 2H and compile candidate gene lists for the other three loci.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) and the mRNA targets of miRNAs were identified by sequence complementarity within a DNA sequence database for species of the Triticeae. Data screening identified 28 miRNA precursor sequences from 15 miRNA families that contained conserved mature miRNA sequences within predicted stem-loop structures. In addition, the identification of 337 target sequences among Triticeae genes provided further evidence of the existence of 26 miRNA families in the cereals. MicroRNA targets included genes that are homologous to known targets in diverse model species as well as novel targets. MicroRNA precursors and targets were identified in 10 related species, though the great majority of them were identified in bread wheat, Triticum aestivum, and barley, Hordeum vulgare, the two species with the largest EST data sets among the Triticeae.
Low temperature and drought have major influences on plant growth and productivity. To identify barley genes involved in responses to these stresses and to specifically test the hypothesis that the dehydrin (Dhn) multigene family can serve as an indicator of the entire transcriptome response, we investigated the response of barley cv. Morex to: (1) gradual drought over 21 days and (2) low temperature including chilling, freeze-thaw cycles, and deacclimation over 33 days. We found 4,153 genes that responded to at least one component of these two stress regimes, about one fourth of all genes called "present" under any condition. About 44% (1,822 of 4,153) responded specifically to drought, whereas only 3.8% (158 of 4,153) were chilling specific and 2.8% (119 of 4,153) freeze-thaw specific, with 34.1% responsive to freeze-thaw and drought. The intersection between chilling and drought (31.9%) was somewhat smaller than the intersection between freeze-thaw and drought, implying an element of osmotic stress response to freeze-thaw. About 82.4% of the responsive genes were similar to Arabidopsis genes. The expression of 13 barley Dhn genes mirrored the global clustering of all transcripts, with specific combinations of Dhn genes providing an excellent indicator of each stress response. Data from these studies provide a robust reference data set for abiotic stress.
A significant fraction of the nuclear DNA of all eukaryotes is occupied by simple sequence repeats (SSRs) or microsatellites. This type of sequence has sparked great interest as a means of studying genetic variation, linkage mapping, gene tagging and evolution. Although SSRs at different positions in a gene help determine the regulation of expression and the function of the protein produced, little attention has been paid to the chromosomal organisation and distribution of these sequences, even in model species. This review discusses the main achievements in the characterisation of long-range SSR organisation in the chromosomes of Triticum aestivum L., Secale cereale L., and Hordeum vulgare L. (all members of Triticeae). We have detected SSRs using an improved FISH technique based on the random primer labelling of synthetic oligonucleotides (15-24 bases) in multi-colour experiments. Detailed information on the presence and distribution of AC, AG and all the possible classes of trinucleotide repeats has been acquired. These data have revealed the motif-dependent and non-random chromosome distributions of SSRs in the different genomes, and allowed the correlation of particular SSRs with chromosome areas characterised by specific features (e.g., heterochromatin, euchromatin and centromeres) in all three species. The present review provides a detailed comparative study of the distribution of these SSRs in each of the seven chromosomes of the genomes A, B and D of wheat, H of barley and R of rye. The importance of SSRs in plant breeding and their possible role in chromosome structure, function and evolution is discussed.
Reports of the use of rice storage protein gene promoters to express transgenes in rice grain have demonstrated that rice grain can be used as a production platform for end-use quality or seed-based edible vaccines. The generation of transgenic rice with multitraits (gene stacking), which requires the use of multiple transgenes under the control of different promoters, necessitates the use of promoters from rice and other cereals, as this is highly advantageous in reducing homology-based transcriptional gene silencing. Using the green fluorescent protein gene (gfp) as a reporter gene and a transgenic rice platform, promoters of storage protein and non-storage protein genes from barley, wheat and rice were compared with regard to their spatial and temporal control of expression. Storage protein promoters from barley (549-bp B-hordein and 433-bp D-hordein) and wheat (425-bp high-molecular-weight glutenin) directed the expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in endosperm but not embryo; however, expression was leaky, as it was also observed in seed maternal tissues, leaf and root tissues. As expected, the rice promoters (1350-bp alpha-glutelin B-1 and 1007-bp alpha-globulin) directed the endosperm-specific expression of GFP in transgenic rice. Our results indicate that seed-specific promoters from barley and wheat, although containing endosperm and GCN4 motifs, which are important for endosperm-specific expression in rice, may not be spatially regulated in the same manner as they are in their native species. The analysis of GFP expression under the control of various promoters in rice grain indicates that promoters from other cereals can drive high levels of endosperm-specific expression in rice, but their utility for seed-specific expression may depend on their tissue specificity.
The cellular myo-inositol (Ins) pool is important to many metabolic and signaling pathways in plants. Ins monophosphatase (IMPase; EC 3.1.3.25) activity is essential for the de novo synthesis of myo-Inositol (Ins), and for recycling of Ins in Ins(1,4,5)P3. However, proteins encoded by at least one family of IMP genes also have L-galactose-1-P phosphatase activity important to ascorbic acid synthesis, indicating a bifunctionality that links these two branches of carbon metabolism. As part of research into the regulation of Ins synthesis and supply during seed development, the barley IMP-1 gene and gene products were studied. The 1.4 kb barley IMP-1 promoter contains one low temperature response element (RE), two heat shock REs, one gibberellin and two auxin REs, and five sugar REs. Barley IMP-1 is expressed in all tissues assayed, and expression levels were not greatly altered by abiotic stress treatments. Reduced use of Ins for Ins P6 synthesis in developing seed of barley low phytic acid (lpa) mutants results in Ins accumulation, and IMP-1 expression is reduced in proportion to the increase in Ins level. The barley recombinant enzyme had a lower Km, indicating higher affinity, for D/L-Ins(3)P1 (Km = 9.7 microM) as compared with reported Km (Ins P1) values for other eukaryotic IMPases (43-330 microM) or with a reported Km (L-Gal-1P) of 150 microM for a kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa) enzyme. These and other data indicate that the barley IMP-1 gene is regulated at least in part in response to Ins metabolic needs, and that the enzyme it encodes displays catalytic properties well suited for a role in Ins synthesis, in addition to other roles as an L-gal-1-P phosphatase important to ascorbate synthesis, or as an IMPase important to Ins(1,4,5)P3 signal recycling.
We investigated the role of three uncharacterized cation transporters of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 as virulence factors for barley: PA1207, PA5021, and PA2647. PAO1 displayed reduced barley virulence with inactivated PA1207, PA5021, and PA2647 as well as with one known Na(+)/H(+) antiporter, PA1820. Using the Escherichia coli LB2003 mutant lacking three K(+) uptake systems, the expression of the PA5021 gene repressed LB2003 growth with low K(+), but the strain acquired tolerance to high K(+). In contrast, the expression of the PA1207 gene enhanced growth of LB2003 with low K(+) but repressed its growth with high K(+); therefore, the PA5021 protein exports K(+), while the PA1207 protein imports K(+). The PA5021 mutant of P. aeruginosa also showed impaired growth at 400 mM KCl and at 400 mM NaCl; therefore, the PA5021 protein may also export Na(+). The loss of the PA5021 protein also decreased production of the virulence factor pyocyanin; corroborating this result, pyocyanin production decreased in wild-type PAO1 under high salinity. Whole-genome transcriptome analysis showed that PAO1 induced more genes in barley upon infection compared to the PA5021 mutant. Additionally, PAO1 infection induced water stress-related genes in barley, which suggests that barley may undergo water deficit upon infection by this pathogen.
The gene co-expression analysis toolbox (GeneCAT) introduces several novel microarray data analyzing tools. First, the multigene co-expression analysis, combined with co-expressed gene networks, provides a more powerful data mining technique than standard, single-gene co-expression analysis. Second, the high-throughput Map-O-Matic tool matches co-expression pattern of multiple query genes to genes present in user-defined subdatabases, and can therefore be used for gene mapping in forward genetic screens. Third, Rosetta combines co-expression analysis with BLAST and can be used to find 'true' gene orthologs in the plant model organisms Arabidopsis thaliana and Hordeum vulgare (Barley). GeneCAT is equipped with expression data for the model plant A. thaliana, and first to introduce co-expression mining tools for the monocot Barley. GeneCAT is available at http://genecat.mpg.de.
Fusarium head blight (FHB; scab), primarily caused by Fusarium graminearum, is a devastating disease of wheat worldwide. FHB causes yield reductions and contamination of grains with trichothecene mycotoxins such as deoxynivalenol (DON). The genetic variation in existing wheat germplasm pools for FHB resistance is low and may not provide sufficient resistance to develop cultivars through traditional breeding approaches. Thus, genetic engineering provides an additional approach to enhance FHB resistance. The objectives of this study were to develop transgenic wheat expressing a barley class II chitinase and to test the transgenic lines against F. graminearum infection under greenhouse and field conditions. A barley class II chitinase gene was introduced into the spring wheat cultivar, Bobwhite, by biolistic bombardment. Seven transgenic lines were identified that expressed the chitinase transgene and exhibited enhanced Type II resistance in the greenhouse evaluations. These seven transgenic lines were tested under field conditions for percentage FHB severity, percentage visually scabby kernels (VSK), and DON accumulation. Two lines (C8 and C17) that exhibited high chitinase protein levels also showed reduced FHB severity and VSK compared to Bobwhite. One of the lines (C8) also exhibited reduced DON concentration compared with Bobwhite. These results showed that transgenic wheat expressing a barley class II chitinase exhibited enhanced resistance against F. graminearum in greenhouse and field conditions.
BLT101-family plasma membrane proteins are found in a wide range of organisms from bacteria to nematodes and are involved in the regulation of cellular cation concentration under stress conditions. A comparison of the promoter regions of barley blt101 and its wheat ortholog, wpi6, revealed highly conserved nucleotide sequences between both genes and a unique insertion of a Xumet element in the blt101 promoter. The Xumet insertion occurred between a putative abscisic acid-responsive element (ABRE) and the dehydration-responsive element/c-repeat (DRE/CRT) within the blt101 promoter. However, blt101 and wpi6 were induced similarly in response to ABA, drought and low temperature, suggesting that the insertion does not affect promoter functions. The Xumet insertion in the blt101/wpi6 promoter region was detected in five barley cultivars, but absent in two wheat cultivars tested, suggesting that the insertion is barley-specific. Genomic Southern blot analysis revealed a large number of Xumet sequences interspersed in the barley genome, whereas only one or very few copies are present in the wheat genome. The data suggested that an expansion in copy number of Xumet elements occurred in the barley genome through evolution.
WRKY proteins belong to the WRKY-GCM1 superfamily of zinc finger transcription factors that have been subject to a large plant-specific diversification. For the cereal crop barley (Hordeum vulgare), three different WRKY proteins have been characterized so far as regulators in sucrose signaling, pathogen defense, and in response to cold and drought. However, their phylogenetic relationship remained unresolved. In this study, we used available sequence information to identify a minimum number of 45 barley WRKY transcription factor (HvWRKY) genes. According to their structural features, the HvWRKY factors were classified into the previously defined polyphyletic WRKY subgroups 1 to 3. Furthermore, we could assign putative orthologs of the HvWRKY proteins in Arabidopsis and rice. While in most cases clades of orthologous proteins were formed within each group or subgroup, other clades were composed of paralogous proteins for the grasses and Arabidopsis only, which is indicative of specific gene radiation events. To gain insight into their putative functions, we examined expression profiles of WRKY genes from publicly available microarray data resources and found group specific expression patterns. While putative orthologs of the HvWRKY transcription factors have been inferred from phylogenetic sequence analysis, we performed a comparative expression analysis of WRKY genes in Arabidopsis and barley. Indeed, highly correlative expression profiles were found between some of the putative orthologs. HvWRKY genes have not only undergone radiation in monocot or dicot species, but exhibit evolutionary traits specific to grasses. HvWRKY proteins exhibited not only sequence similarities between orthologs with Arabidopsis, but also relatedness in their expression patterns. This correlative expression is indicative for a putative conserved function of related WRKY proteins in monocot and dicot species.
The avirulence gene ACE1 from the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea encodes a polyketide synthase (PKS) fused to a nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) probably involved in the biosynthesis of a secondary metabolite recognized by Pi33 resistant rice (Oryza sativa) cultivars. Analysis of the M. grisea genome revealed that ACE1 is located in a cluster of 15 genes, of which 14 are potentially involved in secondary metabolism as they encode enzymes such as a second PKS-NRPS (SYN2), two enoyl reductases (RAP1 and RAP2) and a putative Zn(II)(2)Cys(6) transcription factor (BC2). These 15 genes are specifically expressed during penetration into the host plant, defining an infection-specific gene cluster. A pORF3-GFP transcriptional fusion showed that the highly expressed ORF3 gene from the ACE1 cluster is only expressed in appressoria, as is ACE1. Phenotypic analysis of deletion or disruption mutants of SYN2 and RAP2 showed that they are not required for avirulence in Pi33 rice cultivars, unlike ACE1. Inactivation of other genes was unsuccessful because targeted gene replacement and disruption were inefficient at this locus. Overall, the ACE1 gene cluster displays an infection-specific expression pattern restricted to the penetration stage which is probably controlled at the transcriptional level and reflects regulatory networks specific to early stages of infection.
Light-induced deepoxidation of violaxanthin to antheraxanthin and zeaxanthin in plants is associated with the induction of pronounced xanthophyll-dependent non-photochemical quenching (NPQ). To date, a misbalance between a high amount of zeaxanthin in thylakoid membranes and low NPQ has been explained by an absence of lumen acidification (e.g. when NPQ is measured in the dark after high light stress). In this study, we report that this misbalance can also be observed under moderate light. We found this result (deepoxidation state, DEPS, above 55% and NPQ approximately 0.9) in barley leaves treated with 10 microM methyl viologen (MV) under white light (100 micromol photonsm(-2)s(-1), photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), growth irradiance). The addition of MV at this moderate light did not accelerate electron transport in thylakoid membranes, and induced only slight oxidative stress (no lipid peroxidation, almost unchanged maximum yield of photosystem II photochemistry, a decrease in activity of ascorbate peroxidase, and an increase in that of glutathion reductase). We suggest that, in leaves treated under the conditions used here, the lumen acidification induced by light-limited electron transport in thylakoid membranes was high enough to activate violaxanthin deepoxidase, but not sufficiently high to form the expected number of zeaxanthin-dependent quenching centers in photosystem II antennae.
Two putative endosperm-specific rice genes, OsPR602 and OsPR9a, were identified from database searches. The promoter regions of these genes were isolated, and transcriptional promoter:beta-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion constructs were stably transformed into rice and barley. The GUS expression patterns revealed that these promoters were active in early grain development in both rice and barley, and showed strongest expression in endosperm transfer cells during the early stages of grain filling. The GUS expression was similar in both rice and barley, but, in barley, expression was exclusively in the endosperm transfer cells and differed in timing of activation relative to rice. In rice, both promoters showed activity not only in the endosperm transfer cells, but also in the transfer cells of maternal tissue and in several floral tissues shortly before pollination. The expression patterns of OsPR602 and OsPR9a in flowers differed. The similarity of expression in both rice and barley suggests that these promoters may be useful to control transgene expression in the transfer cells of cereal grains with the aim of altering nutrient uptake or enhancing the barrier against pathogens at the boundary between maternal tissue and the developing endosperm. However, the expression during floral development should be considered if the promoters are used in rice.
Lrk (Lr10 receptor-like kinase) and Tak (Triticum aestivum kinase) belong to the receptor-like kinase (RLK) supergene family in higher plants. Three Lrk/Tak gene regions spanning greater than 600 kb were identified via a genome-wide survey of barley gene-rich BAC clones. Two Lrk/Tak gene clusters are positioned on barley chromosome 3 (3H) and another is localized on chromosome 5 (1H), with each Lrk and Tak open reading frame physically positioned in a back-to-back orientation. Thirteen new Lrk/Tak-like fragments were cloned from the two clusters on 3H and the single cluster on 1H, respectively, and compared phylogenetically with other grass Lrk/Tak-like genes, including a 280-kb Lrk/Tak cluster on rice chromosome 1S. Physically clustered Lrk/Tak-like genes always form monophyletic groups; this suggests that the primary mechanism of expansion of the Lrk/Tak RLK super family was by tandem duplication, of which most members were duplicated after speciation of the Poaceae. Cultivar-dependent transcript accumulation of some Lrk/Tak family members on 3H, as revealed via Barley1 GeneChip microarray analysis, is consistent with the hypothesis of subfunctionalization of Lrk/Tak members following tandem duplication.
White light strongly promotes dormancy in freshly harvested cereal grains, whereas dark and after-ripening have the opposite effect. We have analyzed the interaction of light and after-ripening on abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellin (GA) metabolism genes and dormancy in barley (Hordeum vulgare 'Betzes'). Analysis of gene expression in imbibed barley grains shows that different ABA metabolism genes are targeted by white light and after-ripening. Of the genes examined, white light promotes the expression of an ABA biosynthetic gene, HvNCED1, in embryos. Consistent with this result, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays show that dormant grains imbibed under white light have higher embryo ABA content than grains imbibed in the dark. After-ripening has no effect on expression of ABA biosynthesis genes, but promotes expression of an ABA catabolism gene (HvABA8'OH1), a GA biosynthetic gene (HvGA3ox2), and a GA catabolic gene (HvGA2ox3) following imbibition. Blue light mimics the effects of white light on germination, ABA levels, and expression of GA and ABA metabolism genes. Red and far-red light have no effect on germination, ABA levels, or HvNCED1. RNA interference experiments in transgenic barley plants support a role of HvABA8'OH1 in dormancy release. Reduced HvABA8'OH1 expression in transgenic HvABA8'OH1 RNAi grains results in higher levels of ABA and increased dormancy compared to nontransgenic grains.
The use of recombinant DNA-based protein production using genetically modified plants could provide a reproducible, consistent quality, safe, animal-component free, origin-traceable, and cost-effective source for industrial proteins required in large amounts (1000s of metric tons) and at low cost (below US$100/Kg). The aim of this work was to demonstrate the feasibility of using barley suspension cell culture to support timely testing of the genetic constructs and early product characterization to detect for example post-translational modifications within the industrial protein caused by the selected recombinant system. For this study the human Collagen I alpha 1 (CIa1) chain gene encoding the complete helical region of CIa1 optimized for monocot expression was fused to its N- and C-terminal telopeptide and to a bacteriophage T4 fibritin foldon peptide encoding sequences. The CIa1 accumulation was targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) by fusing the CIa1 gene to an ER-directing signal peptide sequence and an ER retention signal HDEL. The construct containing the CIa1 gene was then introduced into immature barley half embryos or barley cells by particle bombardment. Transgenic barley cells resulting from these transformations were grown as suspension cultures in flasks and in a Wave bioreactor producing CIa1 similar to CIa1 purified from the yeast Pichia pastoris based on Western blotting, pepsin resistance, and mass spectroscopy analysis. The barley cell culture derived-CIa1 intracellular accumulation levels ranged from 2 to 9 microg/l illustrating the need for further process improvement in order to use this technology to supply material for product development activities.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare), first domesticated in the Near East, is a well-studied crop in terms of genetics, genomics, and breeding and qualifies as a model plant for Triticeae research. Recent advances made in barley genomics mainly include the following: (i) rapid accumulation of EST sequence data, (ii) growing number of studies on transcriptome, proteome, and metabolome, (iii) new modeling techniques, (iv) availability of genome-wide knockout collections as well as efficient transformation techniques, and (v) the recently started genome sequencing effort. These developments pave the way for a comprehensive functional analysis and understanding of gene expression networks linked to agronomically important traits. Here, we selectively review important technological developments in barley genomics and related fields and discuss the relevance for understanding genotype-phenotype relationships by using approaches such as genetical genomics and association studies. High-throughput genotyping platforms that have recently become available will allow the construction of high-density genetic maps that will further promote marker-assisted selection as well as physical map construction. Systems biology approaches will further enhance our knowledge and largely increase our abilities to design refined breeding strategies on the basis of detailed molecular physiological knowledge.
The control of potassium (K+) acquisition is a critical requirement for plant growth. Although HAK1 (high affinity K+ 1) transporters provide a pathway for K+ acquisition, the effect exerted by the ionic environment on their contribution to K+ capture remains essentially unknown. Here, the influence of the ionic environment on the accumulation of transcripts coding for the barley (Hordeum vulgare) HvHAK1 transporter as well as on HvHAK1-mediated K+ capture has been examined. In situ mRNA hybridization studies show that HvHAK1 expression occurs in most root cells, being augmented at the outermost cell layers. Accumulation of HvHAK1 transcripts is enhanced by K+ deprivation and transiently by exposure to high salt concentrations. In addition, studies on the accumulation of transcripts coding for HvHAK1 and its close homolog HvHAK1b revealed the presence of two K+-responsive pathways, one repressed and the other insensitive to ammonium. Experiments with Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) HvHAK1-expressing transgenic plants showed that K+ deprivation enhances the capture of K+ mediated by HvHAK1. A detailed study with HvHAK1-expressing Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells also revealed an increase of K+ uptake after K+ starvation. This increase did not occur in cells grown at high Na+ concentrations but took place for cells grown in the presence of NH4+. 3,3'-Dihexyloxacarbocyanine iodide accumulation measurements indicate that the increased capture of K+ in HvHAK1-expressing yeast cells cannot be explained only by changes in the membrane potential. It is shown that the yeast protein phosphatase PPZ1 as well as the halotolerance HAL4/HAL5 kinases negatively regulate the HvHAK1-mediated K+ transport.
Interactions between flowering time genes were examined in a doubled haploid barley (Hordeum vulgare) population segregating for H. vulgare VERNALIZATION1 (HvVRN1), HvVRN2, and PHOTOPERIOD1 (PPD-H1). A deletion allele of HvVRN2 was associated with rapid inflorescence initiation and early flowering, but only in lines with an active allele of PPD-H1. In these lines, the floral promoter FLOWERING LOCUS T (HvFT1) was expressed at high levels without vernalization, and this preceded induction of HvVRN1. Lines with the deletion allele of HvVRN2 and the inactive ppd-H1 allele did not undergo rapid inflorescence initiation and were late flowering. These data suggest that HvVRN2 counteracts PPD-H1 to prevent flowering prior to vernalization. An allele of HvVRN1 that is expressed at high basal levels (HvVRN1-1) was associated with rapid inflorescence initiation regardless of HvVRN2 or PPD-H1 genotype. HvFT1 was expressed without vernalization in lines with the HvVRN1-1 allele and HvFT1 transcript levels were highest in lines with the active PPD-H1 allele; this correlated with rapid apex development postinflorescence initiation. Thus, expression of HvVRN1 promotes inflorescence initiation and up-regulates HvFT1. Analysis of HvVRN1 expression in different genetic backgrounds postvernalization showed that HvVRN2, HvFT1, and PPD-H1 are unlikely to play a role in low-temperature induction of HvVRN1. In a vernalization responsive barley, HvFT1 is not induced by low temperatures alone, but can be induced by long days following prolonged low-temperature treatment. We conclude that low-temperature and daylength flowering-response pathways are integrated to control expression of HvFT1 in barley, and that this might occur through regulation of HvVRN2 activity.
Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) encodes three movement proteins in an overlapping triple gene block (TGB), but little is known about the physical interactions of these proteins. We have characterized a ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex consisting of the TGB1 protein and plus-sense BSMV RNAs from infected barley plants and have identified TGB1 complexes in planta and in vitro. Homologous TGB1 binding was disrupted by site-specific mutations in each of the first two N-terminal helicase motifs but not by mutations in two C-terminal helicase motifs. The TGB2 and TGB3 proteins were not detected in the RNP, but affinity chromatography and yeast two-hybrid experiments demonstrated that TGB1 binds to TGB3 and that TGB2 and TGB3 form heterologous interactions. These interactions required the TGB2 glycine 40 and the TGB3 isoleucine 108 residues, and BSMV mutants containing these amino acid substitution were unable to move from cell to cell. Infectivity experiments indicated that TGB1 separated on a different genomic RNA from TGB2 and TGB3 could function in limited cell-to-cell movement but that the rates of movement depended on the levels of expression of the proteins and the contexts in which they are expressed. Moreover, elevated expression of the wild-type TGB3 protein interfered with cell-to-cell movement but movement was not affected by the similar expression of a TGB3 mutant that fails to interact with TGB2. These experiments suggest that BSMV movement requires physical interactions of TGB2 and TGB3 and that substantial deviation from the TGB protein ratios expressed by the wild-type virus compromises movement.
Plants modify metabolic processes for adaptation to low phosphate (P) conditions. Whilst transcriptomic analyses show that P deficiency changes hundreds of genes related to various metabolic processes, there is limited information available for global metabolite changes of P-deficient plants, especially for cereals. As changes in metabolites are the ultimate 'readout' of changes in gene expression, we profiled polar metabolites from both shoots and roots of P-deficient barley (Hordeum vulgare) using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The results showed that mildly P-deficient plants accumulated di- and trisaccharides (sucrose, maltose, raffinose and 6-kestose), especially in shoots. Severe P deficiency increased the levels of metabolites related to ammonium metabolism in addition to di- and trisaccharides, but reduced the levels of phosphorylated intermediates (glucose-6-P, fructose-6-P, inositol-1-P and glycerol-3-P) and organic acids (alpha-ketoglutarate, succinate, fumarate and malate). The results revealed that P-deficient plants modify carbohydrate metabolism initially to reduce P consumption, and salvage P from small P-containing metabolites when P deficiency is severe, which consequently reduced levels of organic acids in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. The extent of the effect of severe P deficiency on ammonium metabolism was also revealed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) quantitative analysis of free amino acids. A sharp increase in the concentrations of glutamine and asparagine was observed in both shoots and roots of severely P-deficient plants. Based on these data, a strategy for improving the ability of cereals to adapt to low P environments is proposed that involves alteration in partitioning of carbohydrates into organic acids and amino acids to enable more efficient utilization of carbon in P-deficient plants.
Magnaporthe grisea is a model fungus for studying fungus-plant interactions. Two mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase genes, PMK1 and MPS1, have been implicated in regulating plant infection processes in M. grisea. However, transcription factors activated by these MAP kinases are not well studied. In this study we functionally characterized the MIG1 gene that encodes a MADS-box transcription factor homologous to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Rlm1. In yeast two-hybrid assays, MIG1 interacts with MPS1, suggesting that MIG1 may function downstream from the MPS1 pathway. The mig1 deletion mutant had a normal growth rate and formed melanized appressoria, but it was nonpathogenic and failed to infect rice leaves through wounds. Appressoria formed by the mig1 mutant developed penetration pegs and primary infectious hyphae, but further differentiation of the secondary infectious hyphae inside live plant cells was blocked. However, the mig1 mutant formed infectious hypha-like structures in heat-killed plant cells or cellophane membranes. In transformants expressing the MIG1-GFP fusion, green fluorescent protein (GFP) signals were not detectable in vegetative hyphae and conidiophores. Mig1-GFP was localized to nuclei in conidia, appressoria, and infectious hyphae. Deletion of the MADS box had no effect on the expression and localization of the MIG1-GFP fusion but eliminated its ability to complement the mig1 mutant. These results suggest that MIG1 may be required for overcoming plant defense responses and the differentiation of secondary infectious hyphae in live plant cells. The MADS-box domain is essential for the function of MIG1 but dispensable for its nuclear localization, which may be associated with the activation of MIG1 by MPS1 during conidiation and plant infection.
Salt tolerance of plants depends on HKT transporters (High-affinity K(+) Transporter), which mediate Na(+)-specific transport or Na(+)-K(+) co-transport. Gene sequences closely related to rice HKT genes were isolated from hexaploid bread wheat (Triticum aestivum) or barley (Hordeum vulgare) for genomic DNA southern hybridization analysis. HKT gene sequences were mapped on chromosomal arms of wheat and barley using wheat chromosome substitution lines and barley-wheat chromosome addition lines. In addition, HKT gene members in the wild diploid wheat ancestors, T. monococcum (A(m) genome), T. urartu (A(u) genome), and Ae. tauschii (D(t) genome) were investigated. Variation in copy number for individual HKT gene members was observed between the barley, wheat, and rice genomes, and between the different wheat genomes. HKT2;1/2-like, HKT2;3/4-like, HKT1;1/2-like, HKT1;3-like, HKT1;4-like, and HKT1;5-like genes were mapped to the wheat-barley chromosome groups 7, 7, 2, 6, 2, and 4, respectively. Chromosomal regions containing HKT genes were syntenic between wheat and rice except for the chromosome regions containing the HKT1;5-like gene. Potential roles of HKT genes in Na(+) transport in rice, wheat, and barley are discussed. Determination of the chromosome locations of HKT genes provides a framework for future physiological and genetic studies investigating the relationships between HKT genes and salt tolerance in wheat and barley.
The barley plastome mutant CL2 (cytoplasmic line 2) carries a point mutation in the infA gene, a homologue of the bacterial gene for the conserved translation initiator factor 1 (IF1). The function of infA in plastids is not known. The mutation in CL2 leads to a temporal chlorophyll deficiency in the primary leaf blade that is normalised in the basal and middle parts during further development. We have compared the expression of selected nuclear and plastid genes in different parts of primary leaves of CL2 and wild-type and found no indication for an adverse effect of the mutation on plastidial transcription. We observed an enhanced expression of RpoTp (encoding the phage-type nuclear-encoded plastid RNA polymerase) suggested to be caused by retrograde plastid signalling. Decreased amounts of plastid rRNA in basal and top sections are in agreement with the idea that the mutation in infA leads to a time- and position-dependent defect of plastid translation that causes a delay in plastid development. The normalisation of the phenotype in the middle section of CL2 leaves correlates with wild-type levels of chloroplast 16S rRNA and RbcL and increased expression of plastid housekeeping genes. The normalisation was not observed in cells at the tip of CL2 leaves suggesting different ways of regulating chloroplast development in cells at the tip of primary barley leaves as compared with other leaf sections.
In contrast to other cereals, typical barley cultivars have caryopses with adhering hulls at maturity, known as covered (hulled) barley. However, a few barley cultivars are a free-threshing variant called naked (hulless) barley. The covered/naked caryopsis is controlled by a single locus (nud) on chromosome arm 7HL. On the basis of positional cloning, we concluded that an ethylene response factor (ERF) family transcription factor gene controls the covered/naked caryopsis phenotype. This conclusion was validated by (i) fixation of the 17-kb deletion harboring the ERF gene among all 100 naked cultivars studied; (ii) two x-ray-induced nud alleles with a DNA lesion at a different site, each affecting the putative functional motif; and (iii) gene expression strictly localized to the testa. Available results indicate the monophyletic origin of naked barley. The Nud gene has homology to the Arabidopsis WIN1/SHN1 transcription factor gene, whose deduced function is control of a lipid biosynthesis pathway. Staining with a lipophilic dye (Sudan black B) detected a lipid layer on the pericarp epidermis only in covered barley. We infer that, in covered barley, the contact of the caryopsis surface, overlaid with lipids to the inner side of the hull, generates organ adhesion.
The sequence of Gid1 (a gene for a gibberellin (GA) receptor from rice) was used to identify a putative orthologue from barley. This was expressed in E. coli, and produced a protein that was able to bind GA in vitro with both structural specificity and saturability. Its potential role in GA responses was investigated using barley mutants with reduced GA sensitivity (gse1 mutants). Sixteen different gse1 mutants each carried a unique nucleotide substitution in this sequence. In all but one case, these changes resulted in single amino acid substitutions, and, for the remaining mutant, a substitution in the 5' untranslated region of the mRNA is proposed to interfere with translation initiation. There was perfect linkage in segregating populations between new mutant alleles and the gse1 phenotype, leading to the conclusion that the putative GID1 GA receptor sequence in barley corresponds to the Gse1 locus. Determination of endogenous GA contents in one of the mutants revealed enhanced accumulation of bioactive GA(1), and a deficit of C(20) GA precursors. All of the gse1 mutants had reduced sensitivity to exogenous GA(3), and to AC94377 (a GA analogue) at concentrations that are normally 'saturating', but, at much higher concentrations, there was often a considerable response. The comparison between barley and rice mutants reveals interesting differences between these two cereal species in GA hormonal physiology.
Plant seeds prepare for germination already during seed maturation. We performed a detailed transcriptome analysis of barley (Hordeum vulgare) grain maturation, desiccation, and germination in two tissue fractions (starchy endosperm/aleurone and embryo/scutellum) using the Affymetrix Barley1 GeneChip. To aid data evaluation, Arabidopsis thaliana MapMan and PageMan tools were adapted to barley. The analyses allow a number of conclusions: (1) Cluster analysis revealed a smooth transition in transcription programs between late seed maturation and germination within embryo tissues, but not in the endosperm/aleurone. (2) More than 12,000 transcripts are stored in the embryo of dry barley grains, many of which are presumably activated during germination. (3) Transcriptional activation of storage reserve mobilization events occurs at an early stage of germination, well before radicle protrusion. (4) Key genes of gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis are already active during grain maturation at a time when abscisic acid peaks suggesting the formation of an endogenous store of GA in the aleurone. This GA probably acts later during germination in addition to newly synthesized GA. (5) Beside the well-known role of GA in gene activation during germination spatiotemporal expression data and cis-element searches in homologous rice promoters confirm an equally important gene-activating role of abscisic acid during this developmental period. The respective regulatory webs are linked to auxin and ethylene controlled networks. In summary, new bioinformatics PageMan and MapMan tools developed in barley have been successfully used to investigate in detail the transcriptome relationships between seed maturation and germination in an important crop plant.
The barley shrunken grain mutant M292 has a novel high-amylose starch phenotype caused by a mutation in the starch synthase IIa gene (SsIIa) located at the starch excess-6 (sex6) locus on chromosome 7H of barley. The loss of SSIIa enzyme activity leads to a decrease in amylopectin synthesis to less than 20% of the levels found in wild-type grains. Detailed composition analysis indicates that the contents of protein, non-starch polysaccharides, lipid, sucrose and hexoses, and fructo-oligosaccharides are increased in mature M292 grain compared to wild type. Using a microarray analysis, we characterize the differences between the transcription profiles of wild-type and mutant barley endosperms at mid-grain fill. The expression changes include genes involved in carbon storage, stress-related genes, and a number of transcripts with unassigned function. The changes in gene expression are discussed in terms of the altered grain composition of the mutant seed.
Hordatines A and B, the strong antifungal compounds in barley (Hordeum vulgare), are biosynthesized from p-coumaroyl- and feruloyl-CoA and agmatine by two successive reactions catalyzed by agmatine coumaroyltransferase (ACT) and peroxidase. ACT catalyzes the formation of agmatine conjugates (p-coumaroylagmatine and feruloylagmatine) from precursor CoAs and agmatine, and peroxidase catalyzes the oxidative coupling of agmatine conjugates to form hordatines. Our previous study demonstrated that the short arm of barley chromosome 2H (2HS) is responsible for the biosynthesis of hordatines. In the present study, however, barley genes encoding the ACT (HvACT) and a peroxidase (HvPrx7) were found to be located on the long arm of 2H (2HL). The amounts of hordatines and precursor agmatine conjugates were analyzed in wheat (Triticum aestivum) and wheat lines carrying a whole 2H chromosome, 2HS or 2HL. The addition of 2H and 2HL elevated the levels of agmatine conjugates in wheat. This could be attributed to the HvACT on 2HL. However, the content of agmatine conjugates increased also in the 2HS addition line, suggesting the presence of another unidentified ACT gene on 2HS. Hordatines were detected in wheat, but their content was by far lower than those in barley. The 2H and 2HS addition lines accumulated substantial amounts of hordatines, while the 2HL addition line accumulated them as little as wheat did in spite of the substantial transcription of the HvPrx7 gene on 2HL and of the increased accumulation of the precursor agmatine conjugates. These facts suggest that the HvPrx7 gene on 2HL is not involved in the hordatine biosynthesis and that unidentified peroxidase gene responsible for the hordatine biosynthesis is located on 2HS in barley.
Various studies indicate that cell division is a post-germination phenomenon, with radicle protrusion occurring by cell elongation, while others demonstrate that induction of the cell cycle occurs in osmo-conditioned seeds prior to radicle growth. The aim of the present work was to investigate the occurrence of the cell cycle during germination as related to grain hydration, using: (i) a flow cytometry technique to estimate the percentage of cell nuclei in G(1) and G(2) phases of the cell cycle; and (ii) reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) in order to characterize the expression of the genes encoding cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKA1, CDKB1, and CDKD1) and cyclins (CYCA3, CYCB1, and CYCD4), the main genes involved in the cell cycle and its regulation. Radicle tips of embryos were isolated from seeds placed for various times on water at 30 degrees C and from grains partially hydrated at moisture contents ranging from 11% to 51% fresh weight (FW), which prevent radicle elongation. Abscisic acid (ABA) contents of the embryos during seed germination at 30 degrees C and after 48 h of partial hydration were also measured. In dry embryos, cells are mostly arrested in the G(1) phase of the cell cycle (82%), the remaining cells being in the G(2) phase, and the ABA content of the embryo was 432.7 ng g(-1) dry weight (DW). Seed imbibition was associated with a sharp decrease in ABA content as early as 5 h, while the cell cycle reactivation was a late process taking place approximately 4-6 h prior to radicle protrusion. Hydration of seeds resulted in a decrease in embryo ABA content, but it remained at a high level (207-273 ng g(-1) DW) even after 48 h at 0.41-0.51 g H2O g(-1) FW. The cell population of the radicle tips in the G(2) phase of the cell cycle, i.e. 4C nuclei, increased from 9% up to 34% at a moisture content of 51% FW. In dry seeds, CDKA1 and CDKD1 mRNAs were present at low levels, but transcripts of CDKB1, CYCA3, CYCB1, and CYCD4 were not detected. Radicle protrusion was associated with a higher expression of CDKA1, CDKB1, CYCA3, and CYCB1. Blockage of germination of partially hydrated grains resulted in a reduction in the expression of CDKA1 and CDKB1, and of CYCA3 and CYCB1, and in a reinforcement of that of CDKD1 and CYCD4. Patterns of gene expression show differential sensitivity of the genes studied to hydration of the grain. They will be discussed with regard to embryo ABA content and embryo sensitivity to ABA.
Cellulose synthase-like CslF genes have been implicated in the biosynthesis of (1,3;1,4)-beta-d-glucans, which are major cell wall constituents in grasses and cereals. Seven CslF genes from barley (Hordeum vulgare) can be divided into two classes on the basis of intron-exon arrangements. Four of the HvCslF genes have been mapped to a single locus on barley chromosome 2H, in a region corresponding to a major quantitative trait locus for grain (1,3;1,4)-beta-d-glucan content. The other HvCslF genes map to chromosomes 1H, 5H, and 7H, and in two cases the genes are close to other quantitative trait loci for grain (1,3;1,4)-beta-d-glucan content. Spatial and temporal patterns of transcription of the seven genes have been defined through quantitative polymerase chain reaction. In developing barley coleoptiles HvCslF6 mRNA is most abundant. Transcript levels are maximal in 4- to 5-d coleoptiles, at a time when (1,3;1,4)-beta-d-glucan content of coleoptile cell walls also reaches maximal levels. In the starchy endosperm of developing grain, HvCslF6 and HvCslF9 transcripts predominate. Two peaks of transcription are apparent. One occurs just after endosperm cellularization, 4 to 8 d after pollination, while the second occurs much later in grain development, more than 20 d after pollination. Marked varietal differences in transcription of the HvCslF genes are observed during endosperm development. Given the commercial importance of cereal (1,3;1,4)-beta-d-glucans in human nutrition, in stock feed, and in malting and brewing, the observation that only two genes, HvCslF6 and HvCslF9, are transcribed at high levels in developing grain is of potential relevance for the future manipulation of grain (1,3;1,4)-beta-d-glucan levels.
The auxin indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) is known to promote the biosynthesis of active gibberellins (GAs) in barley (Hordeum vulgare). We therefore investigated the possibility that this interaction might contribute to the gravitropic response of barley leaf sheath pulvini. Barley plants at the inflorescence stage were gravistimulated for varying times, and the pulvini were then separated into upper and lower halves for quantification of IAA and GAs by GC-MS. Consistent with the Cholodny-Went theory, the lower portion contained more IAA than did the upper portion. This difference was detected as early as 2.5 h after the start of gravistimulation, and bending was also observed at this stage. At later time points tested (6 h and 24 h), but not at 2.5 h or 3 h, the higher auxin content of the lower half was associated with a higher level of GA(1), the main bioactive GA in barley. Consistent with that result, the expression of Hv3ox2, which encodes a key enzyme for the conversion of GA(20) to GA(1), was higher in the lower side than in the upper, after 6 h. It is suggested that in gravistimulated leaf sheath pulvini, auxin accumulates in the lower side, leading to a higher level of GA(1), which contributes to the bending response. Further evidence that GAs play a role in the gravitropic response was obtained from GA-related mutants, including the elongated sln1c mutant, in which GA signalling is constitutive. Pulvinar bending in the sln1c mutant was greater than in the wild-type. This result indicates that in the lower side of the gravistimulated pulvinus, the relatively high level of bioactive GA facilitates, but does not mediate, the bending response.
Tubulins, as major components involved in the organization of microtubules, play an important role in plant development. We describe here the expression profiles of all known alpha-tubulin (TUA), beta-tubulin (TUB) and gamma-tubulin (TUG) genes of barley (Hordeum vulgare), involving eight newly identified TUB sequences, five established TUA genes and one TUG gene. Macroarray and Northern blot-based expression patterns in the pericarp, endosperm and embryo were obtained over the course of the development of the grain between anthesis and maturation. These revealed that the various tubulin genes differed in their levels of expression, and to some extent were tissue specific. Two expression peaks were detected in the developing endosperm. The first and more prominent peak, at 2 days after flowering, included expression of almost all the tubulin genes. These tubulins are thought to be involved in mitoses during the formation of the syncytial endosperm. The second, less pronounced but more extended, peak included only some of the tubulin genes (HvTUA3, HvTUB1 and HvTUG) and might be associated with the cell wall organization in aleurone and starchy endosperm. The HvTUA5 gene is expressed only in embryo of the developing grain and may be associated with shoot establishment. The expression profiles of the tubulin folding cofactors HvTFC A and HvTFC B as well as small G-protein HvArl2 genes were almost perfectly correlated with the global levels of tubulin mRNA, implying that they have a role in the control of the polymerization of alpha/beta-tubulin heterodimers.
Cold acclimation modifies the balance of the energy absorbed and metabolized in the dark processes of photosynthesis, which may affect the expression of cold-regulated (COR) genes. At the same time, a gradual acclimation to the relatively high light conditions is observed, thereby minimizing the potential for photo-oxidative damage. As a result, the resistance to photoinhibition in the cold has often been identified as a trait closely related to freezing tolerance. Using four barley genotypes that differentially express both traits, the effect of cold acclimation on freezing tolerance and high-light tolerance was studied together with the expression of COR14b, one of the best-characterized barley COR genes. Plants were cold acclimated for 2 weeks at 2 degrees C. Freezing tolerance was studied by means of electrolyte leakage. Changes in photosynthetic apparatus and high-light tolerance were monitored by means of chlorophyll fluorescence. Accumulation of COR14b and some proteins important in photosynthetic acclimation to cold were studied with western analysis. COR14b transcript accumulation during cold acclimation was assessed with real-time PCR. Cold acclimation increased both freezing tolerance and high-light tolerance, especially when plants were treated with high light after non-lethal freezing. In all plants, cold acclimation triggered the increase in photosynthetic capacity during high-light treatment. In two plants that were characterized by higher high-light tolerance but lower freezing tolerance, higher accumulation of COR14b transcript and protein was observed after 7 d and 14 d of cold acclimation, while a higher transient induction of COR14b expression was observed in freezing-tolerant plants during the first day of cold acclimation. High-light tolerant plants were also characterized with a higher level of PsbS accumulation and more efficient dissipation of excess light energy. Accumulation of COR14b in barley seems to be important for resistance to combined freezing and high-light tolerance, but not for freezing tolerance per se.
The Dhn5 gene is the major cold-inducible dehydrin gene in barley. This study deals with the relationship between Dhn5 gene expression and its protein product accumulation, and the development of frost tolerance (FT) upon cold acclimation (CA) in 10 barley cultivars of different growth habits and geographical origins. The activation of Dhn5 gene expression was determined by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), the accumulation of DHN5 protein was evaluated by protein gel blot analysis using a specific anti-dehydrin antibody, and the acquired level of FT was determined by a direct frost test. During the first 2 weeks of CA, there was a rapid increase in Dhn5 gene expression, DHN5 protein accumulation and FT in all cultivars examined. After 2 weeks of CA, differences in DHN5 accumulation and in FT measured as lethal temperature (LT(50)) were observed between the cultivars belonging to different growth habits. Specifically, intermediate (I) and winter (W) cultivars showed a higher level of DHN5 accumulation and FT than the spring (S) cultivars, which exhibited a lower level of accumulated DHN5 and FT. (Intermediate cultivars do not have vernalization requirement, but they are able to induce a relatively high level of FT upon CA.) In contrast, no differences between the cultivars belonging to different growth habits in Dhn5 mRNA accumulation were found. After 3 weeks of CA, the differences in accumulated DHN5 and FT between the individual growth habits became evident due to different developmental regulation of FT. The amount of accumulated DHN5 corresponded well with the level of FT of individual cultivars. We conclude that the amount of accumulated DHN5 after a certain period of CA differed according to the growth habits of cultivars and can be used as a marker for determination of FT in barley.
Using proteomic techniques, a study aimed at isolating and identifying proteins associated with resistance to fusarium head blight (FHB) was conducted on six barley genotypes of varying resistance. At anthesis, barley spikelets were point inoculated with Fusarium graminearum macroconidial suspensions or mock inoculum. In total, 43 acidic protein spots out of 600 were detected 3 days postinoculation to be differentially expressed due to FHB and were identified. Identification of proteins responsive to FHB included those associated with oxidative burst and oxidative stress response, such as malate dehydrogenase and peroxidases, and pathogenesis-related (PR). An increase in abundance of PR-3 or PR-5 could be associated with the resistant genotypes CI4196, Svansota, and Harbin, as well as the intermediate resistant genotype CDC Bold. On the contrary, the susceptible genotype Stander showed a decrease in abundance of these acidic PR-proteins. In the susceptible and intermediate resistant genotypes Stander and CDC Bold, as well as CI4196, the increased abundance of proteins associated with an oxidative response might have prepared the terrain for saprophytic fungal invasion. On the contrary, in the resistant sources Harbin and Svansota we did not observed change in abundance of these proteins. Not a single significant change in acidic protein abundance could be detected in Chevron. Three distinct response patterns are reported from these six barley genotypes.
The maize Hm1 gene provides protection against a lethal leaf blight and ear mold disease caused by Cochliobolus carbonum race 1 (CCR1). Although it was the first disease-resistance (DR) gene to be cloned, it remains a novelty because, instead of participating in the plant recognition and response system as most DR genes do, Hm1 disarms the pathogen directly. It does so by encoding an NADPH-dependent reductase, whose function is to inactivate Helminthosporium carbonum (HC) toxin, an epoxide-containing cyclic tetrapeptide, which the pathogen produces as a key virulence factor to colonize maize. Although CCR1 is strictly a pathogen of maize, orthologs of Hm1 and the HC-toxin reductase activity are present in the grass family, suggesting an ancient and evolutionarily conserved role of this DR trait in plants. Here, we provide proof for such a role by demonstrating its involvement in nonhost resistance of barley to CCR1. Barley leaves in which expression of the Hm1 homologue was silenced became susceptible to infection by CCR1, but only if the pathogen was able to produce HC toxin. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that Hm1 evolved exclusively and early in the grass lineage. Given the devastating ability of CCR1 to kill maize, these findings imply that the evolution and/or geographical distribution of grasses may have been constrained if Hm1 did not emerge.
The homothallic ascomycete fungus Gibberella zeae (anamorph: Fusarium graminearum) is a major toxigenic plant pathogen that causes head blight disease on small-grain cereals. The fungus produces the mycotoxins deoxynivalenol (DON) and zearalenone (ZEA) in infected hosts, posing a threat to human and animal health. Despite its agricultural and toxicological importance, the molecular mechanisms underlying its growth, development and virulence remain largely unknown. To better understand such mechanisms, we studied the heterotrimeric G proteins of G. zeae, which are known to control crucial signalling pathways that regulate various cellular and developmental responses in fungi. Three putative Galpha subunits, GzGPA1, GzGPA2 and GzGPA3, and one Gbeta subunit, GzGPB1, were identified in the F. graminearum genome. Deletion of GzGPA1, a homologue of the Aspergillus nidulans Galpha gene fadA, resulted in female sterility and enhanced DON and ZEA production, suggesting that GzGPA1 is required for normal sexual reproduction and repression of toxin biosynthesis. The production of DON and ZEA was also enhanced in the GzGPB1 mutant, suggesting that both Galpha GzGPA1 and Gbeta GzGPB1 negatively control mycotoxin production. Deletion of GzGPA2, which encodes a Galpha protein similar to A. nidulans GanB, caused reduced pathogenicity and increased chitin accumulation in the cell wall, implying that GzGPA2 has multiple functions. Our study shows that G. zeae heterotrimeric G protein subunits can regulate vegetative growth, sexual development, toxin production and pathogenicity.
To find candidate genes that potentially influence the susceptibility or resistance of crop plants to powdery mildew fungi, an assay system based on transient-induced gene silencing (TIGS) as well as transient over-expression in single epidermal cells of barley has been developed. However, this system relies on quantitative microscopic analysis of the barley/powdery mildew interaction and will only become a high-throughput tool of phenomics upon automation of the most time-consuming steps. We have developed a high-throughput screening system based on a motorized microscope which evaluates the specimens fully automatically. A large-scale double-blind verification of the system showed an excellent agreement of manual and automated analysis and proved the system to work dependably. Furthermore, in a series of bombardment experiments an RNAi construct targeting the Mlo gene was included, which is expected to phenocopy resistance mediated by recessive loss-of-function alleles such as mlo5. In most cases, the automated analysis system recorded a shift towards resistance upon RNAi of Mlo, thus providing proof of concept for its usefulness in detecting gene-target effects. Besides saving labor and enabling a screening of thousands of candidate genes, this system offers continuous operation of expensive laboratory equipment and provides a less subjective analysis as well as a complete and enduring documentation of the experimental raw data in terms of digital images. In general, it proves the concept of enabling available microscope hardware to handle challenging screening tasks fully automatically.
An expression system for high-level expression of the native Hordeum vulgare alpha-amylase/subtilisin inhibitor (BASI) has been developed in Pichia pastoris, using the methanol inducible alcohol oxidase 1 (AOX1) promoter. To optimize expression, two codon-optimized coding regions have been designed and expressed alongside the wild-type coding region. To ensure secretion of the native mature protein, a truncated version of the alpha mating factor secretion signal from Saccharomyces cerevisiae was used. In order to be able to compare expression levels from different clones, single insertion transformants generated by gene replacement of the AOX1 gene was selected by PCR screening. Following methanol induction, expression levels reached 125 mgL(-1) from the wild-type coding region while expression from the two codon-optimized variants reached 65 and 125 mgL(-1), respectively. The protein was purified and characterized by Edman degradation, liquid chromatography mass spectrometry and insoluble blue starch assay, and was shown to possess the same characteristics as wild-type protein purified from barley grains.
The dominant barley stem rust resistance gene Rpg1 confers resistance to many but not all pathotypes of the stem rust fungus Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici (Pgt). Transformation of Rpg1 into susceptible cultivar Golden Promise rendered the transgenic plants resistant to Pgt pathotype MCC but not to Pgt pathotype QCC. Our objective was to identify genes that are induced/repressed during the early stages of pathogen infection to elucidate the molecular mechanisms and role of Rpg1 in defense. A messenger ribonucleic acid expression analysis using the 22K Barley1 GeneChip was conducted in all pair-wise combinations of two isolines (cv. Golden Promise and Rpg1 transgenic line G02-448F-3R) and two Pgt pathotypes (MCC and QCC) across six time points. Analysis showed that a total of 34 probe sets exhibited expression pattern differences between Golden Promise (susceptible) and G02-448F-3R (resistant) infected with Pgt-MCC. A total of 14 probe sets exhibited expression pattern differences between Pgt-MCC (avirulent) and Pgt-QCC (virulent) inoculated onto G02-448F-3R. These differentially expressed genes were activated during the early infection process, before the hypersensitive response or fungal growth inhibition occurred. Our analysis provides a list of candidate signaling components, which can be analyzed for function in Rpg1-mediated disease resistance.
Antisense- or RNAi-mediated suppression of the biosynthesis of nutritionally inferior storage proteins is a promising strategy for improving the amino acid profile of seeds. However, the potential pleiotropic effects of this on interconnected pathways and the agronomic quality traits need to be addressed. In the current study, a transcriptomic analysis of an antisense C-hordein line of barley was performed, using a grain-specific cDNA array. The C-hordein antisense line is characterized by marked changes in storage protein and amino acid profiles, while the seed weight is within the normal range and no external morphological irregularities were observed. The results of the transcriptome analysis showed excellent correlation with data on changes in the relative proportions of storage proteins and amino acid composition. The antisense line had a lower C-hordein level and down-regulated transcript encoding C-hordein. The production of the S-rich B/gamma- and D-hordeins was increased and significantly higher steady-state expression levels of the corresponding genes were observed. The increased synthesis of S-rich hordeins appeared to increase the demand for sulphur and the S-rich amino acids (cysteine and methionine), resulting in an up-regulation of key genes in the appropriate biosynthetic pathways. This study demonstrated the utility of the grain-specific cDNA microarray analysis to detect perturbations induced by antisense suppression of plant processes.
The NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase (NTR)/thioredoxin (Trx) system catalyzes disulfide bond reduction in the cytoplasm and mitochondrion. Trx h is suggested to play an important role in seed development, germination, and seedling growth. Plants have multiple isoforms of Trx h and NTR; however, little is known about the roles of the individual isoforms. Trx h isoforms from barley (Hordeum vulgare) seeds (HvTrxh1 and HvTrxh2) were characterized previously. In this study, two NTR isoforms (HvNTR1 and HvNTR2) were identified, enabling comparison of gene expression, protein appearance, and interaction between individual NTR and Trx h isoforms in barley embryo and aleurone layers. Although mRNA encoding both Trx h isoforms is present in embryo and aleurone layers, the corresponding proteins differed in spatiotemporal appearance. HvNTR2, but not HvNTR1, gene expression seems to be regulated by gibberellic acid. Recombinant HvNTR1 and HvNTR2 exhibited virtually the same affinity toward HvTrxh1 and HvTrxh2, whereas HvNTR2 has slightly higher catalytic activity than HvNTR1 with both Trx h isoforms, and HvNTR1 has slightly higher catalytic activity toward HvTrxh1 than HvTrxh2. Notably, both NTRs reduced Trx h at the acidic conditions residing in the starchy endosperm during germination. Interspecies reactions between the barley proteins and Escherichia coli Trx or Arabidopsis thaliana NTR, respectively, occurred with 20- to 90-fold weaker affinity. This first investigation of regulation and interactions between members of the NTR/Trx system in barley seed tissues suggests that different isoforms are differentially regulated but may have overlapping roles, with HvNTR2 and HvTrxh1 being the predominant isoforms in the aleurone layer.
Tubulins are encoded by small gene families in plants. Based on the barley EST collection, cDNAs for alpha-, beta-, and gamma-tubulins were selected. Five genes for alpha-tubulin, eight newly identified beta-tubulin sequences and one gamma-tubulin gene were found to be expressed in barley. In silico analysis of relative abundance of the distinct tubulin sequences among ESTs derived from different libraries revealed that the various tubulin genes differed in their level of expression, and to some extent were tissue specific.
Arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs) are hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins present at the plasma membrane and in extracellular spaces. A synthetic chemical, beta-glucosyl Yariv reagent (beta-GlcY), binds specifically to AGPs. We previously reported that gibberellin signaling is specifically inhibited by beta-GlcY treatment in barley aleurone protoplasts. In the present study, we found that beta-GlcY also inhibited gibberellin-induced programmed cell death (PCD) in aleurone cells. We examined the universality and specificity of the inhibitory effect of beta-GlcY on gibberellin signaling using microarray analysis and found that beta-GlcY was largely effective in repressing gibberellin-induced gene expression. In addition, >100 genes were up-regulated by beta-GlcY in a gibberellin-independent manner, and many of these were categorized as defense-related genes. Defense signaling triggered by several defense system inducers such as jasmonic acid and a chitin elicitor could inhibit gibberellin-inducible events such as alpha-amylase secretion, PCD and expression of some gibberellin-inducible genes in aleurone cells. Furthermore, beta-GlcY repressed the gibberellin-inducible Ca2+-ATPase gene which is important for gibberellin-dependent gene expression, and induced known repressors of gibberellin signaling, two WRKY genes and a NAK kinase gene. These effects of beta-GlcY were also phenocopied by the chitin elicitor and/or jasmonic acid. These results indicate that gibberellin signaling is under the regulation of defense-related signaling in aleurone cells. It is also probable that AGPs are involved in the perception of stimuli causing defense responses.
Barley seedlings grown on filter paper moistened with 1mM Cd showed 50% root growth inhibition within 24h of exposure. The amount of cadmium after 24h Cd treatment was highest in the first 2mm-long apical root segment, while it was slightly higher in the fourth segment, 6-8mm behind the root tip, after 48h. In recovery experiments, when Cd-treated plants were transferred onto filter paper moistened with distilled water, a large amount of Cd was localised in the apoplast and considerable cell death was detected even though root growth was renewed. This indicates that cell death is likely an active physiological process that contributes to the removal of Cd from the root during root growth recovery. Elevated lipid peroxidation and thiol contents were detected in all individual segments of Cd-treated barley root. On the other hand, proline accumulation was disturbed during Cd stress, showing a significant decrease in all of the studied segments except the first. Cd-induced alteration in the expression of genes involved in metal signalling and detoxification and in drought and oxidative stress responses indicates that Cd-induced water and oxidative stress is responsible for the root growth inhibition, probably through an accelerated differentiation of root tissues.
Chromosome pairing, recombination and DNA repair are essential processes during meiosis in sexually reproducing organisms. Investigating the bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) Ph2 (Pairing homoeologous) locus has identified numerous candidate genes that may have a role in controlling such processes, including TaMSH7, a plant specific member of the DNA mismatch repair family. Sequencing of the three MSH7 genes, located on the short arms of wheat chromosomes 3A, 3B and 3D, has revealed no significant sequence divergence at the amino acid level suggesting conservation of function across the homoeogroups. Functional analysis of MSH7 through the use of RNAi loss-of-function transgenics was undertaken in diploid barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Quantitative real-time PCR revealed several T0 lines with reduced MSH7 expression. Positive segregants from two T1 lines studied in detail showed reduced MSH7 expression when compared to transformed controls and null segregants. Expression of MSH6, another member of the mismatch repair family which is most closely related to the MSH7 gene, was not significantly reduced in these lines. In both T1 lines, reduced seed set in positive segregants was observed. Results presented here indicate, for the first time, a distinct functional role for MSH7 in vivo and show that expression of this gene is necessary for wild-type levels of fertility. These observations suggest that MSH7 has an important function during meiosis and as such remains a candidate for Ph2.
Transposon mutagenesis of Pseudomonas chlororaphis O6 was performed with the transposon Tn5 to investigate genes involved in production of secondary metabolites. A mutant, termed Org, produced intense dark-brown pigmentation on rich medium. The Tn5-flanking sequence of the Org mutant showed high homology with the hmgA gene encoding the enzyme homogentisate dioxygenase, involved in the degradation of aromatic amino acids such as tyrosine. Growth of the hmgA mutant on L-tyrosine as sole carbon and energy sources was impaired. Growth on L-tyrosine was restored and production of the brown melanin pigment was eliminated when the mutant was complemented with the wild-type hmgA gene. The change in aromatic amino acids metabolism caused by the deletion of the hmgA gene function did not impair production of phenazines and biological traits connected to these secondary compounds: inhibition of fungal growth and inhibition of barley seed germination.
Wheat-barley disomic and ditelosomic chromosome addition lines have been used as genetic tools for a range of applications since their development in the 1980s. In the present study, we used the Affymetrix Barley1 GeneChip for comparative transcript analysis of the barley cultivar Betzes, the wheat cultivar Chinese Spring, and Chinese Spring - Betzes ditelosomic chromosome addition lines to physically map barley genes to their respective chromosome arm locations. We mapped 1257 barley genes to chromosome arms 1HS, 2HS, 2HL, 3HS, 3HL, 4HS, 4HL, 5HS, 5HL, 7HS, and 7HL based on their transcript levels in the ditelosomic addition lines. The number of genes assigned to individual chromosome arms ranged from 24 to 197. We validated the physical locations of the genes through comparison with our previous chromosome-based physical mapping, comparative in silico mapping with rice and wheat, and single feature polymorphism (SFP) analysis. We found our physical mapping of barley genes to chromosome arms to be consistent with our previous physical mapping to whole chromosomes. In silico comparative mapping of barley genes assigned to chromosome arms revealed that the average genomic synteny to wheat and rice chromosome arms was 63.2% and 65.5%, respectively. In the 1257 mapped genes, we identified SFPs in 924 genes between the appropriate ditelosomic line and Chinese Spring that supported physical map placements. We also identified a single small rearrangement event between rice chromosome 9 and barley chromosome 4H that accounts for the loss of synteny for several genes.
Both limiting and toxic soil concentrations of the essential micronutrient boron represent major limitations to crop production worldwide. We identified Bot1, a BOR1 ortholog, as the gene responsible for the superior boron-toxicity tolerance of the Algerian barley landrace Sahara 3771 (Sahara). Bot1 was located at the tolerance locus by high-resolution mapping. Compared to intolerant genotypes, Sahara contains about four times as many Bot1 gene copies, produces substantially more Bot1 transcript, and encodes a Bot1 protein with a higher capacity to provide tolerance in yeast. Bot1 transcript levels identified in barley tissues are consistent with a role in limiting the net entry of boron into the root and in the disposal of boron from leaves via hydathode guttation.
Accumulation of storage compounds in the embryo and endosperm of developing seeds is a highly regulated process that allows seedling growth upon germination until photosynthetic capacity is acquired. A critical regulatory element in the promoters of seed storage protein (SSP) genes from dicotyledonous species is the RY box, a target of B3-type transcription factors. However, the functionality of this motif in the transcriptional regulation of SSP genes from cereals has not been fully established. We report here the identification and molecular characterization of barley FUSCA3, a B3-type transcription factor as yet uncharacterized in monocotyledonous plants. Our results show that both the barley and Arabidopsis FUS3 genes maintain a conserved functionality for the regulation of SSP genes and anthocyanin biosynthesis in these two distantly related phylogenetic groups. Complementation of the loss-of-function mutant fus3 in Arabidopsis by the barley HvFus3 gene resulted in restored transcription from the At2S3 gene promoter and normal accumulation of anthocyanins in the seed. In barley, HvFUS3 participates in transcriptional activation of the endosperm-specific genes Hor2 and Itr1. HvFUS3, which specifically binds to RY boxes in EMSA experiments, trans-activates Hor2 and Itr1 promoters containing intact RY boxes in transient expression assays in developing endosperms. Mutations in the RY boxes abolished the HvFUS3-mediated trans-activation. HvFus3 transcripts accumulate in the endosperm and in the embryo of developing seeds, peaking at mid maturation phase. Remarkably, HvFUS3 interacts with the Opaque2-like bZIP factor BLZ2 in yeast, and this interaction is essential for full trans-activation of the seed-specific genes in planta.
Piriformospora indica is a fungus of the order Sebacinales (Basidiomycota) infesting roots of mono- and dicotyledonous plants. Endophytic fungal colonization leads to enhanced plant growth while host cell death is required for proliferation in differentiated root tissue to form a mutualistic interaction. Colonization of barley roots by P. indica and related Sebacina vermifera strains also leads to systemic resistance against the leaf pathogenic fungus Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei due to a yet unknown mechanism of induced resistance. In order to elucidate plant response pathways governed by these root endophytes, we analyzed gene expression in barley plants exhibiting an established symbiosis with P. indica 3 weeks after inoculation. P. indica-colonized roots showed no induction of defence-related genes, while other genes showed a differential regulation pattern indicating a faster P. indica-dependent root development. Gene expression analysis of leaves detected only few systemically induced mRNAs. Among differentially regulated transcripts, we characterized the pathogenesis-related gene HvPr17b and the molecular chaperone HvHsp70 in more detail. HvPr17b shows similarity with TaWCI5, a wheat gene inducible by chemical resistance inducers and salicylate, and was previously proven to exhibit antifungal activity against B. graminis. HvHsp70 is the first gene found to systemically indicate root colonization with endophytic fungi of the order Sebacinales. Both genes are discussed as markers for endophytic colonization and resulting systemic responses.
To identify genes involved in the regulation and execution of leaf senescence and whole-plant nitrogen reallocation, near-isogenic barley germplasm divergent in senescence timing and protein concentration of mature grains was contrasted. Barley lines differing in allelic state at a major locus on chromosome six, controlling grain protein concentration, were obtained after four generations of backcrossing. Based on physiological data indicating major differences between low- and high-grain protein germplasm at 14-21 d past anthesis, the flag leaf and kernel transcriptomes of the low-protein parent and one high-protein near-isogenic line were compared at these time points, using the 22-k Barley1 Affymetrix microarray. Our data associate several genes with both known (based on sequence comparisons) and unknown functions with the senescence process. These include leucine-rich repeat transmembrane protein kinases, a glycine-rich RNA-binding protein with homology to AtGRP7 and a 'mother of FT/TF1' gene. Our data also indicate upregulation of genes coding for both plastidial and extraplastidial proteases in germplasm with accelerated leaf senescence. Functional characterization of candidate genes identified by this research may contribute to our understanding of the molecular network underlying leaf senescence and nitrogen reallocation.
Members of the grass subfamily Pooideae are characterized by their adaptation to cool temperate climates. Vernalization is the process whereby flowering is accelerated in response to a prolonged period of cold. Winter cereals are tolerant of low temperatures and flower earlier with vernalization, whereas spring cultivars are intolerant of low temperatures and flower later with vernalization. In the pooid grasses wheat (Triticum monococcum, Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare), vernalization responsiveness is determined by allelic variation at the VERNALIZATION1 (VRN1) and/or VRN2 loci. To determine whether VRN1, and its paralog FRUITFULL2 (FUL2), are involved in vernalization requirement across Pooideae, we determined expression profiles for multiple cultivars of oat (Avena sativa) and wheat with and without cold treatment. Our results demonstrate significant up-regulation of VRN1 expression in leaves of winter oat and wheat in response to vernalization; no treatment effect was found for spring or facultative growth habit oat and wheat. Similar cold-dependent patterns of leaf expression were found for FUL2 in winter oat, but not winter wheat, suggesting a redundant qualitative role for these genes in the quantitative induction of flowering competency of oat. These and other data support the hypothesis that VRN1 is a common regulator of vernalization responsiveness within the crown pooids. Finally, we found that up-regulation of VRN1 in vegetative meristems of oat was significantly later than in leaves. This suggests distinct and conserved roles for temperate cereal grass VRN1/FUL-like genes, first, in systemic signaling to induce flowering competency, and second, in meristems to activate genes involved in the floral transition.
Tolerance to boron (B) toxicity in cereals is known to be associated with reduced tissue accumulation of B. Genes from roots of B-tolerant cultivars of wheat and barley with high similarities to previously reported B efflux transporters from Arabidopsis and rice were cloned. Expression of these genes was strongly correlated with the ability of tolerant genotypes to lower the concentration of B in roots. The gene from barley located to chromosome 4. Backcross lines containing a B tolerance locus on chromosome 4 showed tolerance in proportion to the level of expression of the transporter gene, whereas those lacking the locus were sensitive to B and had very low levels of gene expression. The results are consistent with a widespread mechanism of tolerance to high B based on efflux of B from root cells.
This study investigated advantages and drawbacks of two sieve-tube sap sampling methods for comparison of phloem proteins in powdery mildew-infested vs. non-infested Hordeum vulgare plants. In one approach, sieve tube sap was collected by stylectomy. Aphid stylets were cut and immediately covered with silicon oil to prevent any contamination or modification of exudates. In this way, a maximum of 1muL pure phloem sap could be obtained per hour. Interestingly, after pathogen infection exudation from microcauterized stylets was reduced to less than 40% of control plants, suggesting that powdery mildew induced sieve tube-occlusion mechanisms. In contrast to the laborious stylectomy, facilitated exudation using EDTA to prevent calcium-mediated callose formation is quick and easy with a large volume yield. After two-dimensional (2D) electrophoresis, a digital overlay of the protein sets extracted from EDTA solutions and stylet exudates showed that some major spots were the same with both sampling techniques. However, EDTA exudates also contained large amounts of contaminative proteins of unknown origin. A combinatory approach may be most favourable for studies in which the protein composition of phloem sap is compared between control and pathogen-infected plants. Facilitated exudation may be applied for subtractive identification of differentially expressed proteins by 2D/mass spectrometry, which requires large amounts of protein. A reference gel loaded with pure phloem sap from stylectomy may be useful for confirmation of phloem origin of candidate spots by digital overlay. The method provides a novel opportunity to study differential expression of phloem proteins in monocotyledonous plant species.
Genetic transformation of crop plants offers the possibility of testing hypotheses about the function of individual genes as well as the exploitation of transgenes for targeted trait improvement. However, in most cereals, this option has long been compromised by tedious and low-efficiency transformation protocols, as well as by the lack of versatile vector systems. After having adopted and further improved the protocols for Agrobacterium-mediated stable transformation of barley (Hordeum vulgare) and wheat (Triticum aestivum), we now present a versatile set of binary vectors for transgene overexpression, as well as for gene silencing by double-stranded RNA interference. The vector set is offered with a series of functionally validated promoters and allows for rapid integration of the desired genes or gene fragments by GATEWAY-based recombination. Additional in-built flexibility lies in the choice of plant selectable markers, cassette orientation, and simple integration of further promoters to drive specific expression of genes of interest. Functionality of the cereal vector set has been demonstrated by transient as well as stable transformation experiments for transgene overexpression, as well as for targeted gene silencing in barley.
Fusarium head blight, caused primarily by Fusarium graminearum, is a major disease problem on barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Trichothecene mycotoxins produced by the fungus during infection increase the aggressiveness of the fungus and promote infection in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Loss-of-function mutations in the TRI5 gene in F. graminearum result in the inability to synthesize trichothecenes and in reduced virulence on wheat. We examined the impact of pathogen-derived trichothecenes on virulence and the transcriptional differences in barley spikes infected with a trichothecene-producing wild-type strain and a loss-of-function tri5 trichothecene nonproducing mutant. Disease severity, fungal biomass, and floret necrosis and bleaching were reduced in spikes inoculated with the tri5 mutant strain compared with the wild-type strain, indicating that the inability to synthesize trichothecenes results in reduced virulence in barley. We detected 63 transcripts that were induced during trichothecene accumulation, including genes encoding putative trichothecene detoxification and transport proteins, ubiquitination-related proteins, programmed cell death-related proteins, transcription factors, and cytochrome P450s. We also detected 414 gene transcripts that were designated as basal defense response genes largely independent of trichothecene accumulation. Our results show that barley exhibits a specific response to trichothecene accumulation that can be separated from the basal defense response. We propose that barley responds to trichothecene accumulation by inducing at least two general responses. One response is the induction of genes encoding trichothecene detoxification and transport activities that may reduce the impact of trichothecenes. The other response is to induce genes encoding proteins associated with ubiquitination and cell death which may promote successful establishment of the disease.
Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) can be used as a powerful tool for functional genomics studies in plants. With this approach, it is possible to target most genes and downregulate the messenger (m)RNA in a sequence-specific manner. Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) is an established VIGS vector for barley and wheat; however, silencing using this vector is generally transient, with efficient silencing often being confined to the first two or three systemically infected leaves. To investigate this further, part of the barley Phytoene desaturase (PDS) gene was inserted into BSMV and the resulting photobleaching in infected barley plants was used as a reporter for silencing. In addition, downregulation of PDS mRNA was measured by quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Using fragments of PDS ranging from 128 to 584 nucleotides in BSMV, we observed that insert length influenced stability but not efficiency of VIGS. Silencing was transient in most cases; however, the decrease in PDS mRNA levels measured by qRT-PCR began earlier and lasted longer than the photobleaching. Occasionally, silencing persisted and could be transmitted through seed as well as via mechanical inoculation, although large parts of the insert had been lost from the virus vector. The instability of the insert, observed consistently throughout our experiments, offers an explanation for the transient nature of silencing when using BSMV as a VIGS vector.
The effect of the parameters of biolistic transformation (rupture disk pressure of helium, vacuum pressure, stopping screen to target tissue distance, material (gold or tungsten) and size of particles, and duration of explant culturing before bombardment) on the level of transient expression of GFP reporter gene was studied in barley embryos. The highest transient expression was observed after explant preincubation for 12-14 days and bombardment with 1 microm gold particles at the helium pressure of 61.24-74.85 atm, vacuum pressure of 0.064 atm, and distance to target of 9 cm.
Transcript abundance from cRNA hybridizations to Affymetrix microarrays can be used for simultaneous marker development and genome-wide gene expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analysis of crops. We have previously shown that it is easily possible to use Affymetrix expression arrays to profile individuals from a segregating population to accurately identify robust polymorphic molecular genetic markers. We applied the method to identify more than 2000 genetic polymorphisms (transcript derived markers, TDMs) from an experiment involving two commercial varieties of barley (Hordeum vulgare; Steptoe and Morex) and their doubled-haploid progeny. With this set of TDMs, we constructed a genetic map and used it for the genome-wide eQTL analysis of about 16 000 genes in a relatively large population (n = 139). We identified 23 738 significant eQTLs at a genome-wide significance (P </= 0.05), affecting the expression of 12 987 genes. Over a third of these genes with expression variation have only one identified eQTL while the rest have two to six. A large proportion of the quantitatively controlled transcripts appear to be regulated by both cis and trans effects. More than half of the quantitatively controlled transcripts appear to be primarily regulated by cis eQTLs in this population. We show that although there appear to be eQTL hotspots many of these are in chromosomal regions of low recombination, such as genetic centromeres, and so have a high gene density per centimorgan. Some chromosomal regions have a significant excess of eQTL over the number expected from gene density, and many of these are biased towards eQTL for which the allele from one particular parent increases the expression level.
Late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins are members of a large group of hydrophilic proteins found primarily in plants. The barley hva1 gene encodes a group 3 LEA protein and is induced by ABA and water deficit conditions. We report here the over expression of hva1 in mulberry under a constitutive promoter via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Molecular analysis of the transgenic plants revealed the stable integration and expression of the transgene in the transformants. Transgenic plants were subjected to simulated salinity and drought stress conditions to study the role of hva1 in conferring tolerance. The transgenic plants showed better cellular membrane stability (CMS), photosynthetic yield, less photo-oxidative damage and better water use efficiency as compared to the non-transgenic plants under both salinity and drought stress. Under salinity stress, transgenic plants show many fold increase in proline concentration than the non-transgenic plants and under water deficit conditions proline is accumulated only in the non-transgenic plants. Results also indicate that the production of HVA1 proteins helps in better performance of transgenic mulberry by protecting membrane stability of plasma membrane as well as chloroplastic membranes from injury under abiotic stress. Interestingly, it was observed that hva1 conferred different degrees of tolerance to the transgenic plants towards various stress conditions. Amongst the lines analysed for stress tolerance transgenic line ST8 was relatively more salt tolerant, ST30, ST31 more drought tolerant, and lines ST11 and ST6 responded well under both salinity and drought stress conditions as compared to the non-transgenic plants. Thus hva1 appears to confer a broad spectrum of tolerance under abiotic stress in mulberry.
Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) are short (12-25 nt long) stretches of single-stranded DNA that may be delivered to a cell, where they hybridize to the cognate mRNA in a sequence-specific manner, thereby inhibiting gene expression. Here we used confocal microscopy to monitor the uptake and trafficking of ODNs in barley tissues. We conclude that uptake of ODNs across the plant plasma membrane is mediated by active transport of mono- or disaccharides through sugar translocators. We demonstrate that sugar transport can deliver ODNs to barley seeds, and that this strategy may be employed to suppress gene activity in endosperm cells by antisense ODN inhibition. We further found that sucrose compared favorably with oligofectamine as a vehicle for ODN delivery to human cells in a low-serum environment.
Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are known to play pivotal roles in intracellular signaling during abiotic and biotic stress responses. To unravel potential functions of CDPKs in the course of barley (Hordeum vulgare)-powdery mildew (Blumeria graminis) interactions, we systematically analyzed the HvCDPK gene family. We found that, according to the existence of respective expressed sequence tags, at least nine paralogs are expressed in the barley leaf epidermis, the sole target tissue of powdery mildew fungi. We exemplarily selected two HvCDPKs with known full-length coding sequence for functional analysis. Transient expression of a putative constitutive active variant of one of these (HvCDPK4) in Nicotiana benthamiana triggered kinase-dependent mesophyll cell death in tobacco leaves. In a barley mlo mutant genotype, a constitutive active variant of the second paralog, HvCDPK3, partially compromised the highly effective resistance to B. graminis f. sp. hordei. A similar break of mlo resistance was seen upon expression of the junction domain of HvCDPK4, supposed to act as a dominant inhibitor of CDPK activity. Expression of a constitutive active HvCDPK3 or HvCDPK4 form also compromised penetration resistance to the inappropriate wheat powdery mildew fungus. Collectively, our data provide evidence for antagonistic roles of individual CDPK paralogs in the control of host cell entry during the early phase of powdery mildew pathogenesis.
FOX1 encodes an iron deficiency-induced ferroxidase involved in a high-affinity iron uptake system. Mutagenesis analysis of the FOX1 promoter identified two separate iron-responsive elements, FeRE1 (CACACG) and FeRE2 (CACGCG), between positions -87 and -82 and between positions -65 and -60, respectively, and both are needed for induced FOX1 expression under conditions of iron deficiency.
Stable genetic transformation represents the gold standard approach to the detailed elucidation of plant gene functions. This is particularly relevant in barley, an important experimental model widely employed in applied molecular, genetic and cell biological research, and biotechnology. Presented are details of the establishment of a protocol for Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer to immature embryos, which enables the highly efficient generation of transgenic barley. Advancements were achieved through comparative experiments on the influence of various explant treatments and co-cultivation conditions. The analysis of representative numbers of transgenic lines revealed that the obtained T-DNA copy numbers are typically low, the generative transmission of the recombinant DNA is in accordance with the Mendelian rules and the vast majority of the primary transgenics produce progeny that expresses the respective transgene product. Moreover, the newly established protocol turned out to be useful to transform not only the highly amenable cultivar (cv.) 'Golden Promise' but also other spring and winter barley genotypes, albeit with substantially lower efficiency. As a major result of this study, a very useful tool is now available for future functional gene analyses as well as genetic engineering approaches. With the aim to modify the expression of barley genes putatively involved in plant-fungus interactions, numerous transgenic plants have been generated using diverse expression cassettes. These plants represent an example of how transformation technology may contribute to further our understanding of important biological processes.
In this article, we present a tool which allows the rapid and non-invasive detection and quantitative visualization of lipid in living seeds at a variety of stages using frequency-selected magnetic resonance imaging. The method provides quantitative lipid maps with a resolution close to the cellular level (in-plane 31 microm x 31 microm). The reliability of the method was demonstrated using two contrasting subjects: the barley grain (monocot, 2% oil, highly compartmentalized) and the soybean grain (dicot, 20% oil, economically important oilseed). Steep gradients in local oil storage were defined at the organ- and tissue-specific scales. These gradients were closely coordinated with tissue differentiation and seed maturation, as revealed by electron microscopy and biochemical and gene expression analysis. The method can be used to elucidate similar oil accumulation processes in different tissues/organs, as well as to follow the fate of storage lipids during deposition and subsequent mobilization.
Polyketides are a structurally diverse class of secondary metabolites produced by bacteria, fungi, plants and animals. The fungal genus Fusarium includes agronomically important plant pathogenic and mycotoxin-producing species and produces numerous polyketides. The study further characterized a polyketide synthase-encoding gene (PKS3 = PGL1) that was previously identified in F. graminearum and F. verticillioides. Disruption of the F. verticillioides PGL1 indicated that it is required for the production of the dark pigment in perithecial walls, as previously shown in F. graminearum. A third PGL1 orthologue was identified in the genomic sequence of N. haematococca (anamorph F. solani f. sp. pisi). Analysis of the carboxy-terminal end of the deduced PGL1 protein indicated that it had a functional domain related to dehydrogenases/reductases that is sometimes present in non-ribosomal peptide synthetases. Comparison of the genomic regions flanking PGL1 in F. graminearum, F. verticillioides and N. haematococca revealed that the extent of gene synteny in this region was greater between F. graminearum and F. verticillioides than between either of these species and N. haematococca. Southern blot analysis indicated that PGL1 occurs widely within the genus Fusarium including species with no known sexual stage.
Black point of barley grain is a disorder characterised by a brown-black discolouration at the embryo end of the grain. Black point is undesirable to the malting industry and results in significant economic loss annually. To identify proteins associated with barley black point we utilised a proteomic approach with 2-DE to compare proteins from whole grain samples of black pointed and healthy grain. From this comparison two condition-specific proteins were identified: a novel 75 kDa late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) protein and a barley grain peroxidase 1 (BP1) that were specifically more abundant in healthy grain and black pointed grain, respectively. Although LEA protein was less abundant in black pointed grain, LEA gene expression was greater suggesting protein degradation had possibly occurred in black pointed grain. Similarly, the increase in BP1 in black pointed grain could not be explained by gene expression. Western blot analysis also revealed that the identified LEA protein is biotinylated in vivo. The role that each of these proteins might have in black point development is discussed.
A compatible solute, proline is accumulated in various kinds of plants and microorganisms under environmental stresses. The function of proline is thought to be an osmotic regulator under water stress, and its transport into cells is mediated by a proline transporter. Here, we report the effects of expressing the barley proline transporter (HvProT) under the control of either the CaMV35S promoter (35Sp) or a root cap promoter (RCp), on Arabidopsis growth. In Arabidopsis, transformed HvProT functions in the plasma membrane, like other amino acid transporters. Reduction in biomass production was observed in aerial parts of 35Sp-HvProT plants, and it was accompanied with decreased proline accumulation in leaves. Impaired growth of 35Sp-HvProT plants was restored by exogenously adding L: -proline. These results suggested that growth reduction was caused by a deficiency of endogenous proline. In 35Sp-HvProT plants, the amount of proline dehydrogenase (PDH) transcript was increased compared to wild type (WT) plants, with a consequent enhancement of the activity of PDH. On the other hand, the transgenic RCp-HvProT plants accumulated 2- to 3-fold more proline in the root tip region compared to WT, and root elongation was enhanced at the same time. Thus, different physiological responses were caused by the altered location in accumulation of proline using two different promoters for heterologous expression of HvProT. These results indicate the importance of proline distribution at the tissue level during vegetative development.
Analysis of gene expression in the developing barley caryopsis requires effective instruments for visualization of the grain and the 3D expression patterns. Digital models of developing barley (Hordeum vulgare) grains were reconstructed from serial sections to visualize the complex three-dimensional (3D) grain anatomy, to generate and analyse 3D expression patterns, and to quantify tissues during growth. The models provide detailed spatial descriptions of developing grains at anthesis, at the syncytial stage of endosperm development and at the onset of starch accumulation, visualizing and quantifying 18 tissues or tissue complexes. Total caryopsis volumes and volume changes of specific tissues between the stages were determined, and proportions of ovule- and non-ovule-tissues and ratios of filial to maternal tissues were calculated from the model data. To generate and analyse 3D expression patterns, data from mRNA localization by in situ hybridizations were integrated into the models. At the onset of starch accumulation, cell-wall invertase (HvCWINV1) mRNA is mainly localized in the transfer cells and to a lesser degree in zones of the starchy endosperm. Using the model, an expression gradient across the grain was visualized. The expression pattern in the upper region of the caryopsis resembles that found in the median region at an earlier stage, indicating the presence of a developmental gradient. At anthesis, mRNA of the protease nucellin was visualized in a distinct zone of the nucellus near the antipodal cells.
Leaf senescence can be described as the dismantling of cellular components during a specific time interval before cell death. This has the effect of remobilizing N in the form of amino acids that can be relocalized to developing seeds. High levels of carbohydrates have previously been shown to promote the onset of the senescence process. Carbohydrate accumulation in barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants was induced experimentally by steam-girdling at the leaf base, occluding the phloem, and gene regulation under these conditions was investigated using the Affymetrix Barley GeneChip array and quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Transcript levels of plastidial (aminopeptidases, cnd41) and vacuolar (thiol and serine) proteases clearly increase in girdled leaves. Of special interest are cnd41, a plastidial aspartyl peptidase that has been implicated in Rubisco degradation in tobacco; and cp-mIII, a highly upregulated carboxypeptidase. SAG12, hexokinases and other senescence-specific genes are also upregulated under these conditions. Applying a genomic approach to the innovative experimental system described here significantly enhances our knowledge of leaf proteolysis and whole-plant N recycling.
It is well known that volatile cues from damaged plants may induce resistance in neighboring plants. Much less is known about the effects of volatile interaction between undamaged plants. In this study, barley plants, Hordeum vulgare cv. Kara, were exposed to volatiles from undamaged plants of barley cv. Alva or thistle Cirsium vulgare, and to the volatile phytochemicals, methyl salicylate or methyl jasmonate. Exposures were made either during natural daylight or darkness. Acceptance of exposed plants by the aphid Rhopalosiphum padi was assessed, as well as the expression of putative marker genes for the different treatments. Aphid acceptance of plants exposed to either barley or C. vulgare was significantly reduced, and an effect of the volatiles from undamaged plants was confirmed by the induction of pathogenesis-related protein, PR1a in exposed plants. However the effect on aphid acceptance was seen only when plants were exposed during darkness, whereas PR1a was induced only after treatment during daylight. Aphid acceptance of plants exposed to either methyl salicylate or methyl jasmonate was significantly reduced, but only when plants were exposed to the chemicals during daylight. AOS2 (allene oxide synthase) was induced by methyl jasmonate and BCI-4 (barley chemical inducible gene-4) by methyl salicylate in both daylight and darkness. It is concluded that (a) the effects on aphids of exposing barley to volatile phytochemicals was influenced by the presence or absence of light and (b) the response of barley to methyl salicylate/methyl jasmonate and to volatiles from undamaged plants differed at the gene and herbivore level.
A new methodology is proposed for estimating the proportion of true null hypotheses in a large collection of tests. Each test concerns a single parameter delta whose value is specified by the null hypothesis. We combine a parametric model for the conditional cumulative distribution function (CDF) of the p-value given delta with a nonparametric spline model for the density g(delta) of delta under the alternative hypothesis. The proportion of true null hypotheses and the coefficients in the spline model are estimated by penalized least squares subject to constraints that guarantee that the spline is a density. The estimator is computed efficiently using quadratic programming. Our methodology produces an estimate g(delta) of the density of delta when the null is false and can address such questions as "when the null is false, is the parameter usually close to the null or far away?" This leads us to define a falsely interesting discovery rate (FIDR), a generalization of the false discovery rate. We contrast the FIDR approach to Efron's (2004, Journal of the American Statistical Association 99, 96-104) empirical null hypothesis technique. We discuss the use of g in sample size calculations based on the expected discovery rate (EDR). Our recommended estimator of the proportion of true nulls has less bias compared to estimators based upon the marginal density of the p-values at 1. In a simulation study, we compare our estimators to the convex, decreasing estimator of Langaas, Lindqvist, and Ferkingstad (2005, Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Series B 67, 555-572). The most biased of our estimators is very similar in performance to the convex, decreasing estimator. As an illustration, we analyze differences in gene expression between resistant and susceptible strains of barley.
Glutathione reductase (GR) plays an important role in the response to biotic and abiotic stresses in plants. We studied the expression patterns and enzyme activities of GR in graminaceous plants under Fe-sufficient and Fe-deficient conditions by isolating cDNA clones for chloroplastic GR (HvGR1) and cytosolic GR (HvGR2) from barley. We found that the sequences of GR1 and GR2 were highly conserved in graminaceous plants. Based on their nucleotide sequences, HvGR1 and HvGR2 were predicted to encode polypeptides of 550 and 497 amino acids, respectively. Both proteins showed in vitro GR activity, and the specific activity for HvGR1 was 3-fold that of HvGR2. Northern blot analyses were performed to examine the expression patterns of GR1 and GR2 in rice (Os), wheat (Ta), barley (Hv), and maize (Zm). HvGR1, HvGR2, and TaGR2 were upregulated in response to Fe-deficiency. Moreover, HvGR1 and TaGR1 were mainly expressed in shoot tissues, whereas HvGR2 and TaGR2 were primarily observed in root tissues. The GR activity increased in roots of barley, wheat, and maize and shoot tissues of rice, barley, and maize in response to Fe-deficiency. Furthermore, it appeared that GR was not post-transcriptionally regulated, at least in rice, wheat, and barley. These results suggest that GR may play a role in the Fe-deficiency response in graminaceous plants.
Various methods have been developed to explore inter-genomic relationships among plant species. Here, we present a sequence similarity analysis based upon comparison of transcript-assembly and methylation-filtered databases from five plant species and physically anchored rice coding sequences. A comparison of the frequency of sequence alignments, determined by MegaBLAST, between rice coding sequences in TIGR pseudomolecules and annotations vs 4.0 and comprehensive transcript-assembly and methylation-filtered databases from Lolium perenne (ryegrass), Zea mays (maize), Hordeum vulgare (barley), Glycine max (soybean) and Arabidopsis thaliana (thale cress) was undertaken. Each rice pseudomolecule was divided into 10 segments, each containing 10% of the functionally annotated, expressed genes. This indicated a correlation between relative segment position in the rice genome and numbers of alignments with all the queried monocot and dicot plant databases. Colour-coded moving windows of 100 functionally annotated, expressed genes along each pseudomolecule were used to generate 'heat-maps'. These revealed consistent intra- and inter-pseudomolecule variation in the relative concentrations of significant alignments with the tested plant databases. Analysis of the annotations and derived putative expression patterns of rice genes from 'hot-spots' and 'cold-spots' within the heat maps indicated possible functional differences. A similar comparison relating to ancestral duplications of the rice genome indicated that duplications were often associated with 'hot-spots'. Physical positions of expressed genes in the rice genome are correlated with the degree of conservation of similar sequences in the transcriptomes of other plant species. This relative conservation is associated with the distribution of different sized gene families and segmentally duplicated loci and may have functional and evolutionary implications.
The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea infects its host by forming a specialized infection structure, the appressorium, on the plant leaf. The enormous turgor pressure generated within the appressorium drives the emerging penetration peg forcefully through the plant cuticle. Hitherto, the involvement of cutinase(s) in this process has remained unproven. We identified a specific M. grisea cutinase, CUT2, whose expression is dramatically upregulated during appressorium maturation and penetration. The cut2 mutant has reduced extracellular cutin-degrading and Ser esterase activity, when grown on cutin as the sole carbon source, compared with the wild-type strain. The cut2 mutant strain is severely less pathogenic than the wild type or complemented cut2/CUT2 strain on rice (Oryza sativa) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). It displays reduced conidiation and anomalous germling morphology, forming multiple elongated germ tubes and aberrant appressoria on inductive surfaces. We show that Cut2 mediates the formation of the penetration peg but does not play a role in spore or appressorium adhesion, or in appressorial turgor generation. Morphological and pathogenicity defects in the cut2 mutant are fully restored with exogenous application of synthetic cutin monomers, cAMP, 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, and diacylglycerol (DAG). We propose that Cut2 is an upstream activator of cAMP/protein kinase A and DAG/protein kinase C signaling pathways that direct appressorium formation and infectious growth in M. grisea. Cut2 is therefore required for surface sensing leading to correct germling differentiation, penetration, and full virulence in this model fungus.
Starch branching enzymes (SBEs) play important roles in plant starch synthesis. Three orthologs encoding SBEs in rice, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Populus trichocarpa are described. Putative amino acid sequences of these three SBE genes show approximately 30% identity to those of SBEI and SBEII from plants such as maize, barley, and wheat. More interestingly, they share approximately 31% amino acid sequence identity with those of glycogen-branching enzymes from such animals as mouse, horse, and monkey. The three genes have similar genomic structures, but their structural features are quite different from those of genes of both SBEI and SBEII families in plants. Based on phylogenetic analysis and genomic structure comparison, it is proposed that the three SBE genes represent a new family of SBEs.
The 3a movement protein (B3a) of brome mosaic virus (BMV) plays essential roles in the cell-to-cell movement of BMV. B3a is known to bind nucleic acids, to transport RNA to neighbouring cells, and to form tubular structures. Here, we tested the assumption that phosphorylation may be a mechanism that regulates B3a functions and showed that not only B3a but also the coat protein, BCP, was phosphorylated in BMV-infected barley protoplasts. Both BCP and B3a were detected in a complex immunoprecipitated from BMV-infected protoplasts with anti-B3a antiserum, implying an interaction between BCP and B3a.
We analyze the effect of the plastoquinone redox state on the regulation of the light-harvesting antenna size at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. This was approached by studying transcription and accumulation of light-harvesting complexes in wild type versus the barley mutant viridis zb63, which is depleted in photosystem I and where plastoquinone is constitutively reduced. We show that the mRNA level of genes encoding antenna proteins is almost unaffected in the mutant; this stability of messenger level is not a peculiarity of antenna-encoding genes, but it extends to all photosynthesis-related genes. In contrast, analysis of protein accumulation by two-dimensional PAGE shows that the mutant undergoes strong reduction of its antenna size, with individual gene products having different levels of accumulation. We conclude that the plastoquinone redox state plays an important role in the long term regulation of chloroplast protein expression. However, its modulation is active at the post-transcriptional rather than transcriptional level.
The aim of the present study was to isolate clones of genes which are likely to be involved in wax deposition on barley leaves. Of particular interest were those genes which encode proteins that take part in the synthesis and further modification of very long chain fatty acids (VLCFAs), the precursors of waxes. Previously, it had been shown that wax deposition commences within a spatially well-defined developmental zone along the growing barley leaf (Richardson et al. in Planta 222:472-483, 2005). In the present study, a barley microarray approach was used to screen for candidate contig-sequences (www.barleybase.org) that are expressed particularly in those leaf zones where wax deposition occurs and which are expressed specifically within the epidermis, the site of wax synthesis. Candidate contigs were used to screen an established in-house cDNA library of barley. Six full-length coding sequences clones were isolated. Based on sequence homologies, three clones were related to Arabidopsis CER6/CUT1, and these clones were termed HvCUT1;1, HvCUT1;2 and HvCUT1;3. A fourth clone, which was related to Arabidopsis Fiddlehead (FDH), was termed HvFDH1;1. These clones are likely to be involved in synthesis of VLCFAs. A fifth and sixth clone were related to Arabidopsis CER1, and were termed HvCER1;1 and HvCER1;2. These clones are likely to be involved in the decarbonylation pathway of VLCFAs. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR confirmed microarray expression data. In addition, expression analyses at 10-mm resolution along the blade suggest that HvCUT1;1 (and possibly HvCUT1;2) and HvCER1;1 are involved in commencement of wax deposition during barley leaf epidermal cell development.
High-affinity K(+) transporters play an important role in K(+) absorption of plants. We isolated a HAK gene from Aeluropus littoralis, a graminaceous halophyte. The amino acid sequence of AlHAK showed high homology with HAK transporters obtained from Oryza sativa (82%) and Hordeum vulgare (82%). When expressed in Saccharomyces cereviae WDelta3, AlHAK performed high-affinity K(+) uptake with a K(m) value of 8 muM, and the growth of transformants was dramatically inhibited by 150 mM Rb(+) and 150 mM Cs(+) but less affected by 300 mM Na(+). AlHAK may thus improve the capacity of plants to maintain a high cytosolic K(+)/Na(+) ratio at high salinity.
Ppd-D1 on chromosome 2D is the major photoperiod response locus in hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum). A semi-dominant mutation widely used in the "green revolution" converts wheat from a long day (LD) to a photoperiod insensitive (day neutral) plant, providing adaptation to a broad range of environments. Comparative mapping shows Ppd-D1 to be colinear with the Ppd-H1 gene of barley (Hordeum vulgare) which is a member of the pseudo-response regulator (PRR) gene family. To investigate the relationship between wheat and barley photoperiod genes we isolated homologues of Ppd-H1 from a 'Chinese Spring' wheat BAC library and compared them to sequences from other wheat varieties with known Ppd alleles. Varieties with the photoperiod insensitive Ppd-D1a allele which causes early flowering in short (SD) or LDs had a 2 kb deletion upstream of the coding region. This was associated with misexpression of the 2D PRR gene and expression of the key floral regulator FT in SDs, showing that photoperiod insensitivity is due to activation of a known photoperiod pathway irrespective of day length. Five Ppd-D1 alleles were found but only the 2 kb deletion was associated with photoperiod insensitivity. Photoperiod insensitivity can also be conferred by mutation at a homoeologous locus on chromosome 2B (Ppd-B1). No candidate mutation was found in the 2B PRR gene but polymorphism within the 2B PRR gene cosegregated with the Ppd-B1 locus in a doubled haploid population, suggesting that insensitivity on 2B is due to a mutation outside the sequenced region or to a closely linked gene.
Soluble ionic aluminum (Al) inhibits root growth and reduces crop production on acid soils. Al-resistant cultivars of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) detoxify Al by secreting citrate from the roots, but the responsible gene has not been identified yet. Here, we identified a gene (HvAACT1) responsible for the Al-activated citrate secretion by fine mapping combined with microarray analysis, using an Al-resistant cultivar, Murasakimochi, and an Al-sensitive cultivar, Morex. This gene belongs to the multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) family and was constitutively expressed mainly in the roots of the Al-resistant barley cultivar. Heterologous expression of HvAACT1 in Xenopus oocytes showed efflux activity for (14)C-labeled citrate, but not for malate. Two-electrode voltage clamp analysis also showed transport activity of citrate in the HvAACT1-expressing oocytes in the presence of Al. Overexpression of this gene in tobacco enhanced citrate secretion and Al resistance compared with the wild-type plants. Transiently expressed green fluorescent protein-tagged HvAACT1 was localized at the plasma membrane of the onion epidermal cells, and immunostaining showed that HvAACT1 was localized in the epidermal cells of the barley root tips. A good correlation was found between the expression of HvAACT1 and citrate secretion in 10 barley cultivars differing in Al resistance. Taken together, our results demonstrate that HvAACT1 is an Al-activated citrate transporter responsible for Al resistance in barley.
Pathogens induce the expression of many genes encoding plant transcription factors, though specific knowledge of the biological function of individual transcription factors remains scarce. NAC transcription factors are encoded in plants by a gene family with proposed functions in both abiotic and biotic stress adaptation, as well as in developmental processes. In this paper, we provide convincing evidence that a barley NAC transcription factor has a direct role in regulating basal defence. The gene transcript was isolated by differential display from barley leaves infected with the biotrophic powdery mildew fungus, Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh). The full-length cDNA clone was obtained using 5'-RACE and termed HvNAC6, due to its high similarity to the rice homologue, OsNAC6. Gene silencing of HvNAC6 during Bgh inoculation compromises penetration resistance in barley epidermal cells towards virulent Bgh. Complementing the effect of HvNAC6 gene silencing, transient overexpression of HvNAC6 increases the occurrence of penetration resistant cells towards Bgh attack. Quantitative RT-PCR shows the early and transient induction of HvNAC6 in barley epidermis upon Bgh infection. Additionally, our results show that the Arabidopsis HvNAC6 homologue ATAF1 is also induced by Bgh and the ataf1-1 mutant line shows decreased penetration resistance to this non-host pathogen. Collectively, these data suggest a conserved role of HvNAC6 and ATAF1 in the regulation of penetration resistance in monocots and dicots, respectively.
C-repeat/dehydration-responsive element binding factors (CBF/DREBs) are a family of transcription factors that regulate freezing tolerance in Arabidopsis. As a step towards understanding the stress response of monocotyledonous plants, we isolated a barley gene HvCBF4 whose expression is induced by low-temperature stress. Transgenic over-expression of HvCBF4 in rice resulted in an increase in tolerance to drought, high-salinity and low-temperature stresses without stunting growth. Interestingly, under low-temperature conditions, the maximum photochemical efficiency of photosystem II in the dark-adapted state (F(v)/F(m), where F(v) is the variable fluorescence and F(m) is the maximum fluorescence) in HvCBF4 plants was higher by 20% and 10% than that in non-transgenic and CBF3/DREB1A plants, respectively. Using the 60K Rice Whole Genome microarray, 15 rice genes were identified that were activated by HvCBF4. When compared with 12 target rice genes of CBF3/DREB1A, five genes were common to both HvCBF4 and CBF3/DREB1A, and 10 and seven genes were specific to HvCBF4 and CBF3/DREB1A, respectively. Interestingly, HvCBF4 did not activate Dip1 and Lip5, two important target genes of CBF3/DREB1A, in transgenic rice under normal growth conditions, but their expression was enhanced by HvCBF4 under low-temperature conditions. Our results suggest that CBF/DREBs of barley act differently from those of Arabidopsis in transgenic rice.
We have previously described the evaluation of a cDNA microarray platform to identify and clone mutated barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) genes, using their transcriptionally defective mutant alleles (S. Zakhrabekova, C.G. Kannangara, D. von Wettstein, M. Hansson, A microarray approach for identification of mutated genes, Plant Physiol. Biochem. 40 (2002) 189-197). It was concluded that competitive hybridization between phenotypically similar mutants could specifically highlight an arrayed clone, corresponding to the mutated gene. In this study we evaluate whether the Affymetrix microarray platform can be used for the same purpose. The Affymetrix barley microarray contains a large number of clones (22,792 probe sets). In this and the previous study we used two barley mutant strains, xantha-h.57 and xantha-f.27, with known mutations in different subunit genes of the chlorophyll biosynthetic enzyme magnesium chelatase (EC 6.6.1.1). Mutant xantha-h.57 produces no Xantha-h mRNA whereas in xantha-f.27 the nonsense mutation in the last exon of the gene, results in nonsense-mediated decay of Xantha-f mRNA. We conclude that the Affymetrix platform meets our requirements and that our approach successfully highlighted the arrayed Xantha-h clone and that Xantha-f was among the top fourteen candidates.
The aim of the present study was to identify water channel(s) which are expressed specifically in the growth zone of grass leaves and may facilitate growth-associated water uptake into cells. Previously, a gene had been described (HvEmip) which encodes a membrane intrinsic protein (MIP) and which is particularly expressed in the base 1 cm of barley primary leaves. The functionality of the encoding protein was not known. In the present study on leaf 3 of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), a clone was isolated, termed HvPIP1;6, which has 99% amino acid sequence identity to HvEmip and belongs to the family of plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs). Expression of HvPIP1;6 was highest in the elongation zone, where it accounted for >85% of expression of known barley PIP1s. Within the elongation zone, faster grower regions showed higher expression than slower growing regions. Expression of HvPIP1;6 was confined to the epidermis, with some expression in neighboring mesophyll cells. Expression of HvPIP1;6 in Xenopus laevis oocytes increased osmotic water permeability 4- to 6-fold. Water channel activity was inhibited by pre-incubation of oocytes with 50 microM HgCl(2) and increased following incubation with the phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid or the plant hormone ABA. Plasma membrane preparations were analyzed by Western blots using an antibody that recognized PIP1s. Levels of PIP1s were highest in the elongation and adjacent non-elongation zone. The developmental expression profile of HvPIP2;1, the only known barley water channel belonging to the PIP2 subgroup, was opposite to that of HvPIP1;6.
Development and refinement of methods to analyse differential gene expression has been essential in the progress of molecular biology. A novel approach called iGentifier is presented for profiling known and unknown transcriptomes, thus bypassing a major limitation in microarray analysis. The iGentifier technology combines elements of fragment display (e.g. Differential Display or RMDD) and tag sequencing (e.g. SAGE, MPSS) and allows for analysis of samples in high throughput using current capillary electrophoresis equipment. Application to epidermal tissue of wild-type and mlo5 barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants, infected with powdery mildew [Blumeria graminis (DC.) E.O. Speer f.sp.hordei], led to the identification of several 100 genes induced or repressed upon infection with many well known for their response to fungal pathogens or other stressors. Ten of these genes are suggested to be classified as marker genes for durable resistance mediated by the mlo5 resistance gene.
P23k is a monocot-unique protein that is highly expressed in the scutellum of germinating barley seed. Previous expression analyses suggested that P23k is involved in sugar translocation and/or sugar metabolism. However, the role of P23k in barley physiology remains unclear. Here, to elucidate its physiological function, BSMV-based virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) of P23k in barley leaves was performed. Expression and localization analyses of P23k mRNA in barley leaves showed up-regulation of P23k transcript with increased photosynthetic activity and the localization of these transcripts to the vascular bundles and sclerenchyma, where secondary wall formation is most active. VIGS of the P23k gene led to abnormal leaf development, asymmetric orientation of main veins, and cracked leaf edges caused by mechanical weakness. In addition, histochemical analyses indicated that the distribution of P23k in leaves coincides with the distribution of cell wall polysaccharides. Considering these results together, it is proposed that P23k is involved in the synthesis of cell wall polysaccharides and contributes to secondary wall formation in barley leaves.
The vhb gene encoding Vitreoscilla haemoglobin (VHb) was transferred to barley with the aim of studying the role of oxygen availability in germination and growth. Previous findings indicate that VHb expression improves the efficiency of energy generation during oxygen-limited growth, and germination is known to be an energy demanding growth stage during which the embryos also suffer from oxygen deficiency. When subjected to oxygen deficiency, the roots of vhb-expressing barley plants showed a smaller increase in alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) activity than those of the control plants. This indicates that VHb plants experienced less severe oxygen deficiency than the control plants, possibly due to the ability of VHb to substitute ADH for recycling NADH and maintaining glycolysis. In contrast to previous findings, we found that constitutive vhb expression did not improve the germination rate of barley kernels in any of the conditions studied. In some cases, vhb expression even slowed down germination slightly. VHb production also appeared to restrict root formation in young seedlings. The adverse effects of VHb on germination and root growth may be related to its ability to scavenge nitric oxide (NO), an important signal molecule in both seed germination and root formation. Because NO has both cytotoxic and stimulating properties, the effect of vhb expression in plants may depend on the level and role of endogenous NO in the conditions studied. VHb production also affected the levels of endogenous barley haemoglobin, which may explain the relatively moderate effects of VHb in this study.
Upon germination of seed cereals, mobilization of the reserves stored in the endosperm is regulated by the phytohormones gibberellins (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA). In barley, the cis regulatory elements and the trans-acting factors mediating the ABA response of hydrolase genes remain elusive. Two new barley genes, HvDof17 and HvDof19, encoding transcription factors (TFs) of the DNA binding with one finger (DOF) class have been characterized and their role upon germination investigated. HvDOF19 binds in a specific manner to the pyrimidine box within the GARC of a thiol-protease gene (Al21), and mediates the ABA repression of this gene in the barley aleurone. Silencing of HvDof19 in transient expression assays diminishes the inhibitory effect of ABA upon expression of the Al21 gene promoter. Transcripts from HvDof17 and HvDof19 accumulate early in germinating aleurones with a peak at 16 h after seed imbibition (hai), whereas the mRNAs of the GA-induced activator GAMYB remain little expressed. At 48 hai, mRNA content of both genes is comparatively insignificant compared with that of GAMYB, which reaches a maximum. Both TFs repress, in transient expression assays, the GA- and the GAMYB-mediated activation of this thiol-protease gene (Al21). In addition, HvDOF17 and HvDOF19 interact with GAMYB in plant cell nuclei, and HvDOF17, but not HvDOF19, interferes with the DNA binding of GAMYB to its target site in the promoter of the Al21 gene. A regulatory model of hydrolase gene expression upon germination is proposed.
Genetic analyses have identified two loci in wheat and barley that mediate the capacity to overwinter in temperate climates. One locus co-segregates with VRN-1, which affects the vernalization requirement. This locus is known as Frost resistance-1 (Fr-1). The second locus, Fr-2, is coincident with a cluster of more than 12 Cbf genes. Cbf homologs in Arabidopsis thaliana play a key regulatory role in cold acclimatization and the acquisition of freezing tolerance. Here we report that the Hordeum vulgare (barley) locus VRN-H1/Fr-H1 affects expression of multiple barley Cbf genes at Fr-H2. RNA blot analyses, conducted on a 'Nure'x'Tremois' barley mapping population segregating for VRN-H1/Fr-H1 and Fr-H2, revealed that transcript levels of all cold-induced Cbf genes at Fr-H2 were significantly higher in recombinants harboring the vrn-H1 winter allele than in recombinants harboring the Vrn-H1 spring allele. Steady-state Cbf2 and Cbf4 levels were also significantly higher in recombinants harboring the Nure allele at Fr-H2. Additional experiments indicated that, in vrn-H1 genotypes requiring vernalization, Cbf expression levels were dampened after plants were vernalized, and dampened Cbf expression was accompanied by robust expression of Vrn-1. Cbf levels were also significantly higher in plants grown under short days than under long days. Experiments in wheat and rye indicated that similar regulatory mechanisms occurred in these plants. These results suggest that VRN-H1/Fr-H1 acts in part to repress or attenuate expression of the Cbf at Fr-H2; and that the greater level of low temperature tolerance attributable to the Nure Fr-H2 allele may be due to the greater accumulation of Cbf2 and Cbf4 transcripts during normal growth and development.
Fusarium graminearum is a ubiquitous pathogen of cereal crops, including wheat, barley, and maize. Diseases caused by F. graminearum are of particular concern because harvested grains frequently are contaminated with harmful mycotoxins such as deoxynivalenol (DON). In this study, we explored the role of Ras GTPases in pathogenesis. The genome of F. graminearum contains two putative Ras GTPase-encoding genes. The two genes (RAS1 and RAS2) showed different patterns of expression under different conditions of nutrient availability and in various mutant backgrounds. RAS2 was dispensable for survival but, when disrupted, caused a variety of morphological defects, including slower growth on solid media, delayed spore germination, and significant reductions in virulence on wheat heads and maize silks. Intracellular cAMP levels were not affected by deletion of RAS2 and exogenous treatment of the ras2 mutant with cAMP did not affect phenotypic abnormalities, thus indicating that RAS2 plays a minor or no role in cAMP signaling. However, phosphorylation of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase Gpmk1 and expression of a secreted lipase (FGL1) required for infection were reduced significantly in the ras2 mutant. Based on these observations, we hypothesize that RAS2 regulates growth and virulence in F. graminearum by regulating the Gpmk1 MAP kinase pathway.
Aluminium (Al) tolerance in barley is conditioned by the Alp locus on the long arm of chromosome 4H, which is associated with Al-activated release of citrate from roots. We developed a high-resolution map of the Alp locus using 132 doubled haploid (DH) lines from a cross between Dayton (Al-tolerant) and Zhepi 2 (Al-sensitive) and 2,070 F(2 )individuals from a cross between Dayton and Gairdner (Al-sensitive). The Al-activated efflux of citrate from the root apices of Al-tolerant Dayton was 10-fold greater than from the Al-sensitive parents Zhepi 2 and Gairdner. A suite of markers (ABG715, Bmag353, GBM1071, GWM165, HvMATE and HvGABP) exhibited complete linkage with the Alp locus in the DH population accounting 72% of the variation for Al tolerance evaluated as relative root elongation. These markers were used to map this genomic region in the Dayton/Gairdner population in more detail. Flanking markers HvGABP and ABG715 delineated the Alp locus to a 0.2 cM interval. Since the HvMATE marker was not polymorphic in the Dayton/Gairdner population we instead investigated the expression of the HvMATE gene. Relative expression of the HvMATE gene was 30-fold greater in Dayton than Gardiner. Furthermore, HvMATE expression in the F(2:3) families tested, including all the informative recombinant lines identified between HvGABP and ABG715 was significantly correlated with Al tolerance and Al-activated citrate efflux. These results identify HvMATE, a gene encoding a multidrug and toxic compound extrusion protein, as a candidate controlling Al tolerance in barley.
OsIpk and HvIpk, inositol phosphate kinases, were cloned from rice (Oryza sativa L. var. indica, IR64) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) respectively. Sequence alignment showed that they belong to the ATP-grasp family, which includes inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate 5/6-kinase from humans and Arabidopsis. Residues that are binding sites for ATP and coordinate magnesium in absence or presence of inositol phosphate are conserved and in total 23 residues are invariant among the twelve aligned inositol phosphate kinases. The genes were heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli and kinase activity assays with 17 different isomers of inositol mono-/di-/tri-/tetra-/pentaphosphate as well as phytate were performed. The strongest activity for both kinases was observed with Ins(3,4,5,6)P(4), which candidates as the primary substrate for these kinases in plants. Several species-specific differences between the two recombinant Ipks were observed. Rice OsIpk showed detectable kinase activity towards eight different substrates, whereas barley HvIpk showed kinase activity with all the substrates including inositol mono- and bisphosphates. HvIpk showed 3-kinase activity towards the Ins(1,4,5)P(3) substrate and it also interconverted the two substrates Ins(1,3,4,5)P(4) and Ins(1,3,4,6)P(4) by isomerase activity, which was not observed for the rice homologue. Both OsIpk and HvIpk had no detectable 2-kinase activity. Furthermore, the two Ipks showed phosphatase activity towards several inositol phosphates. Expression analysis by RT-PCR demonstrated that the Ipk gene was equally expressed in different tissues and developmental stages. Taken together, these results show that the Ipk kinase plays a significant role in the inositol phosphate interacting network in plants.
Nicotianamine and nicotianamine synthase (NAS) play key roles in iron nutrition in all higher plants. However, the mechanism underlying the regulation of NAS expression differs among plant species. Sequences homologous to iron deficiency-responsive elements (IDEs), i.e., cis-acting elements, are found on the promoters of these genes. We aimed to verify the interspecies compatibility of the Fe-deficiency response of NAS1 genes and understand the universal mechanisms that regulate their expression patterns in higher plants. Therefore, we introduced the graminaceous (Hordeum vulgare L. and Oryza sativa L.) NAS1 promoter::GUS into dicots (Nicotiana tabacum L. and Arabidopsis thaliana L.). Fe deficiency induced HvNAS1 expression in the shoots and roots when introduced into rice. HvNAS1 promoter::GUS and OsNAS1 promoter::GUS induced strong expression of GUS under Fe-deficient conditions in transformed tobacco. In contrast, these promoters only definitely functioned in Arabidopsis transformants. These results suggest that some Fe nutrition-related trans-factors are not compatible between graminaceous plants and Arabidopsis. HvNAS1 promoter::GUS induced GUS activity only in the roots of transformed tobacco under Fe-deficient conditions. On the other hand, OsNAS1 promoter::GUS induced GUS activity in both the roots and shoots of transformed tobacco under conditions of Fe deficiency. In tobacco transformants, the induction of GUS activity was induced earlier in the shoots than roots. These results suggest that the HvNAS1 and OsNAS1 promoters are compatible with Fe-acquisition-related trans-factors in the roots of tobacco and that the OsNAS1 promoter is also compatible with some shoot-specific Fe deficiency-related trans-factors in tobacco.
Micro- and macroarray technologies help acquire thousands of gene expression patterns covering important biological processes during plant ontogeny. Particularly, faithful visualization methods are beneficial for revealing interesting gene expression patterns and functional relationships of coexpressed genes. Such screening helps to gain deeper insights into regulatory behavior and cellular responses, as will be discussed for expression data of developing barley endosperm tissue. For that purpose, high-throughput multidimensional scaling (HiT-MDS), a recent method for similarity-preserving data embedding, is substantially refined and used for (a) assessing the quality and reliability of centroid gene expression patterns, and for (b) derivation of functional relationships of coexpressed genes of endosperm tissue during barley grain development (0-26 days after flowering). Temporal expression profiles of 4824 genes at 14 time points are faithfully embedded into two-dimensional displays. Thereby, similar shapes of coexpressed genes get closely grouped by a correlation-based similarity measure. As a main result, by using power transformation of correlation terms, a characteristic cloud of points with bipolar sandglass shape is obtained that is inherently connected to expression patterns of pre-storage, intermediate and storage phase of endosperm development. The new HiT-MDS-2 method helps to create global views of expression patterns and to validate centroids obtained from clustering programs. Furthermore, functional gene annotation for developing endosperm barley tissue is successfully mapped to the visualization, making easy localization of major centroids of enriched functional categories possible.
Asexual spores of the rice blast fungus germinate to produce a specialized and melanized infection structure, the appressorium, which is pivotal to successful plant penetration. To investigate whether Magnaporthe grisea counteracts the toxic burst of H2O2 localized beneath the site of attempted invasion, we examined the temporal expression of five candidate antioxidant genes. Of these, the putatively secreted large subunit catalase CATB gene was 600-fold up-regulated in vivo, coincident with penetration, and moderately up-regulated in vitro, in response to exogenous H2O2. Targeted gene replacement of CATB led to compromised pathogen fitness; the catB mutant displayed paler pigmentation and accelerated hyphal growth but lower biomass, poorer sporulation, fragile conidia and appressoria, and impaired melanization. The catB mutant was severely less pathogenic than Guy 11 on barley and rice, and its infectivity was further reduced on exposure to H2O2. The wild-type phenotype was restored by the reintroduction of CATB into the catB mutant We found no evidence to support a role for CATB in detoxification of the host-derived H2O2 at the site of penetration. Instead, we demonstrated that CATB plays a part in strengthening the fungal wall, a role of particular importance during forceful entry into the host.
Plastids are semiautonomous organelles that contain only limited coding information in their own DNA. Because most of their genome was transferred to the nucleus after their endosymbiotic origin, plastids must import the major part of their protein constituents from the cytosol. The exact role of cytosolic targeting factors in the regulation of plastid protein import has not been determined. Here, we report that the nucleus-encoded NADPH:protochlorophyllide (Pchlide) oxidoreductase A plastid precursor (pPORA) can use two different plastid import pathways that differ by the requirements for cytosolic 14:3:3 proteins and Hsp70. pPORA synthesized in a wheat germ lysate segregated into different precursor fractions. While import of free pPORA and only Hsp70-complexed pPORA was Pchlide-dependent and involved the previously identified Pchlide-dependent translocon, 14:3:3 protein- and Hsp70-complexed pPORA was transported into Pchlide-free chloroplasts through the Toc75-containing standard translocon at the outer chloroplast membrane/translocon at the inner chloroplast membrane machinery. A 14:3:3 protein binding site was identified in the mature region of the (35)S-pPORA, which governed 14:3:3 protein- and Hsp70-mediated, Pchlide-independent plastid import. Collectively, our results reveal that the import of pPORA into the plastids is tightly regulated and involves different cytosolic targeting factors and plastid envelope translocon complexes.
Using genomic technologies, it is now possible to address research hypotheses in the context of entire developmental or biochemical pathways, gene networks, and chromosomal location of relevant genes and their inferred evolutionary history. Through a range of platforms, researchers can survey an entire transcriptome under a variety of experimental and field conditions. Interpretation of such data has led to new insights and revealed previously undescribed phenomena. In the area of plant-pathogen interactions, transcript profiling has provided unparalleled perception into the mechanisms underlying gene-for-gene resistance and basal defense, host vs nonhost resistance, biotrophy vs necrotrophy, and pathogenicity of vascular vs nonvascular pathogens, among many others. In this way, genomic technologies have facilitated a system-wide approach to unifying themes and unique features in the interactions of hosts and pathogens.
The effector protein NIP1 from the barley (Hordeum vulgare) pathogen Rhynchosporium secalis specifically induces the synthesis of defense-related proteins in cultivars of barley expressing the complementary resistance gene, Rrs1. In addition, it stimulates the activity of the barley plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase in a genotype-unspecific manner and it induces necrotic lesions in leaf tissues of barley and other cereal plant species. NIP1 variants type I and II, which display quantitative differences in their activities as elicitor and H(+)-ATPase stimulator, and the inactive mutant variants type III* and type IV*, were produced in Escherichia coli. Binding studies using (125)I-NIP1 type I revealed a single class of binding sites with identical binding characteristics in microsomes from near-isogenic resistant (Rrs1) and susceptible (rrs1) barley. Binding was specific, reversible, and saturable, and saturation ligand-binding experiments yielded a K(d) of 5.6 nm. A binding site was also found in rye (Secale cereale) and the nonhost species wheat (Triticum aestivum), oat (Avena sativa), and maize (Zea mays), but not in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). For NIP1 types I and II, equilibrium competition-binding experiments revealed a correlation between the difference in their affinities to the binding site and the differences in their elicitor activity and H(+)-ATPase stimulation, indicating a single target molecule to mediate both activities. In contrast, the inactive proteins type III* and type IV* are both characterized by high affinities similar to type I, suggesting that binding of NIP1 to this target is not sufficient for its activities.
Under conditions of iron deficiency, graminaceous plants induce the expression of genes involved in the biosynthesis of mugineic acid family phytosiderophores. We previously identified the novel cis-acting elements IDE1 and IDE2 (iron-deficiency-responsive element 1 and 2) through promoter analysis of the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) iron-deficiency-inducible IDS2 gene in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.). To gain further insight into plant gene regulation under iron deficiency, we analyzed the barley iron-deficiency-inducible IDS3 gene, which encodes mugineic acid synthase. IDS3 promoter fragments were fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene, and this construct was introduced into Arabidopsis thaliana L. and tobacco plants. In both Arabidopsis and tobacco, GUS activity driven by the IDS3 promoter showed strongly iron-deficiency-inducible and root-specific expression. Expression occurred mainly in the epidermis of Arabidopsis roots, whereas expression was dominant in the pericycle, endodermis, and cortex of tobacco roots, resembling the expression pattern conferred by IDE1 and IDE2. Deletion analysis revealed that a sequence within -305 nucleotides from the translation start site was sufficient for specific expression in both Arabidopsis and tobacco roots. Gain-of-function analysis revealed functional regions at -305/-169 and -168/-93, whose coexistence was required for the induction activity in Arabidopsis roots. Multiple IDE-like sequences were distributed in the IDS3 promoter and were especially abundant within the functional region at -305/-169. A sequence moderately homologous to that of IDE1 was also present within the -168/-93 region. These IDE-like sequences would be the first candidates for the functional iron-deficiency-responsive elements in the IDS3 promoter.
In wheat and barley, several generations of selectable molecular markers have been included in the genetic maps; and a large number of qualitative and quantitative traits were located in the genomes, some of which are being routinely selected in marker-assisted breeding programs. In recent years, a large number of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) have been generated for wheat and barley that have been used for development of functional molecular markers, preparation of transcript maps, and construction of cDNA arrays. These functional genomic resources combined together with new approaches such as expression genetics, association mapping, allele mining, and informatics (bioinformatic tools) possess potential to identify genes responsible for a trait and their deployment in practical plant breeding. High costs currently limit the implementation of functional genomics in breeding programs. The potential applications together with some examples as well as challenges for applying genomics research in breeding activities are discussed. Genomics research will continue to enhance the efficiency and precision for crop improvement but will not replace conventional breeding and evaluation methods.
Cell polarization is a crucial process during plant development, as well as in plant-microbe interactions, and is frequently associated with extensive cytoskeletal rearrangements. In interactions of plants with inappropriate fungal pathogens (so-called non-host interactions), the actin cytoskeleton is thought to contribute to the establishment of effective barriers at the cell periphery against fungal ingress. Here, we impeded actin cytoskeleton function in various types of disease resistance using pharmacological inhibitors and genetic interference via ectopic expression of an actin-depolymerizing factor-encoding gene, ADF. We demonstrate that barley (Hordeum vulgare) epidermal cells require actin cytoskeleton function for basal defense to the appropriate powdery mildew pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei and for mlo-mediated resistance at the cell wall, but not for several tested race-specific immune responses. Analysis of non-host resistance to two tested inappropriate powdery mildews, Erysiphe pisi and B. graminis f. sp. tritici, revealed the existence of actin-dependent and actin-independent resistance pathways acting at the cell periphery. These pathways act synergistically and appear to be under negative control by the plasma membrane-resident MLO protein.
Activation tagging, as the result of random genomic insertion of either promoter or enhancer sequences, can produce novel, dominant mutations by over-expression of endogenous genes. This powerful genomics tool has been used extensively in dicot species such as Arabidopsis, while rice is the only cereal for which an equivalent system exists. In this study we describe an activation tagging system in barley based upon the maize Ac/Ds transposable element system. A modified Ds element (UbiDs) containing two maize polyubiquitin promoters, transposed in families derived from multiple independent UbiDs transformants and generated new Ds insertion events at frequencies ranging from 0% to 52% per family. The majority of transposed UbiDs elements activated high levels of adjacent flanking sequence transcription. Transposon-mediated expression was detected in all barley cell and tissue types analysed suggesting that this system is applicable to all aspects of plant development and biogenesis. In addition to transcriptional activation, this system is also capable of generating insertional knockout mutants and a UbiDs inactivated allele of the granule bound starch synthase I gene (waxy) was recovered that lead to reduced amylose accumulation. The recovery and analysis of dominant over-expression phenotypes generated by this system will provide a novel approach to understanding gene function in large cereal genomes where gene redundancy may mask conventional loss-of-function mutations.
High-temperature stress causes abortive male reproductive development in many plant species. Here, we report a putative mechanism of high-temperature injury during anther early development in barley plants (Hordeum vulgare L). Under high-temperature conditions (30 degrees C day/25 degrees C night), cell-proliferation arrest, increased vacuolization, over-development of chloroplasts, and certain abnormalities of the mitochondria, nuclear membrane, and rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) were observed in developing anther cells, but not in developing ovule cells. Moreover, premature degradation of tapetum cells and premature progression to meiotic prophase in pollen mother cells (PMCs) were also observed. To monitor transcriptional alterations during high-temperature injury, we performed DNA microarray analysis using the 22K Barley1 GeneChip. Expression profiles were captured at four time points during the early development of panicles, and during vegetative growth of seedlings as a control, with or without high-temperature treatment. Abiotic or biotic stress related genes were equally or more dominantly up-regulated in the seedlings exposed to high temperatures compared with the panicles. In contrast, certain genes associated with histones, DNA replication initiation, mitochondria, and ribosomes were specifically repressed in the exposed panicles. In situ hybridization studies indicated that repression locally occurred on the developing anther cells exposed to high temperatures. Microarray analysis also indicated that a series of genes, including a meiosis-specific gene Asy1 and anther-specific lipid transfer protein genes, was prematurely up-regulated at an earlier stage under high-temperature conditions. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR analyses well confirmed the expression differences of certain key genes predicted by the DNA microarrays. These results suggest that high-temperature causes premature progression of anther early development program and fate, such as progression to meiosis of PMCs, cell-proliferation arrest and degradation in anther wall cells, accompanied by comprehensive alterations in transcription.
Gibberellic acid (GA) promotes seed germination, elongation growth, and flowering time in plants. GA responses are repressed by DELLA proteins, which contain an N-terminal DELLA domain essential for GA-dependent proteasomal degradation of DELLA repressors. Mutations of or within the DELLA domain of DELLA repressors have been described for species including Arabidopsis thaliana, wheat (Triticum aestivum), maize (Zea mays), and barley (Hordeum vulgare), and we show that these mutations confer GA insensitivity when introduced into the Arabidopsis GA INSENSITIVE (GAI) DELLA repressor. We also demonstrate that Arabidopsis mutants lacking the three GA INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1) GA receptor genes are GA insensitive with respect to GA-promoted growth responses, GA-promoted DELLA repressor degradation, and GA-regulated gene expression. Our genetic interaction studies indicate that GAI and its close homolog REPRESSOR OF ga1-3 are the major growth repressors in a GA receptor mutant background. We further demonstrate that the GA insensitivity of the GAI DELLA domain mutants is explained in all cases by the inability of the mutant proteins to interact with the GID1A GA receptor. Since we found that the GAI DELLA domain alone can mediate GA-dependent GID1A interactions, we propose that the DELLA domain functions as a receiver domain for activated GA receptors.
The dehydration-responsive element binding proteins (DREB1)/C-repeat (CRT) binding factors (CBF) function as transcription activators and bind to the DRE/CRT cis-acting element commonly present in the promoters of abiotic stress-regulated genes. A DREB1A transcription factor ortholog was isolated from a xeric, wild barley (Hordeum spontaneum L.) accession, originating from the Negev desert. Sequence comparison revealed a very high degree of sequence conservation of HsDREB1A to the published barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) DREB1A. Constitutive expression of the HsDREB1A gene was able to trans-activate a reporter gene under transcriptional control of the stress-inducible HVA1s and Dhn8 promoters. HsDREB1A was subcloned under transcriptional control of the stress-inducible barley HVA1s promoter and introduced into the apomictic bahiagrass (Paspalum notatum Flugge) cultivar 'Argentine'. HsDREB1A integration and stress inducible expression was detected in primary transgenic bahiagrass plants and apomictic seed progeny by Southern blot, RT-PCR and northern blot analysis respectively. Transgenic bahiagrass plants with stress-inducible expression of HsDREB1A survived severe salt stress and repeated cycles of severe dehydration stress under controlled environment conditions, in contrast to non-transgenic plants. The observed abiotic stress tolerance is very desirable in turf and forage grasses like bahiagrass, where seasonal droughts and irrigation restrictions affect establishment, persistence or productivity of this perennial crop.
Golden Promise is a salt-tolerant spring barley closely related to Maythorpe. Salt tolerance in Golden Promise has been attributed to a single mutation at the Ari-e locus (on 5H) resulting from irradiation of Maythorpe. Golden Promise accumulates lower shoot Na+ compared to Maythorpe when growing under saline conditions. This study focused on elucidating the genetic basis and mechanisms involved in this difference. The level of polymorphism between the two genotypes was explored using the Barley1 GeneChip for single feature polymorphisms (SFPs) and an oligonucleotide pool assay for single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Polymorphism analyses revealed three haplotype blocks spanning 6.4 cM on chromosome 1H, 23.7 cM on chromosome 4H and 3.0 cM on 5H. The Barley1 GeneChip was used to examine transcript abundance in different tissues and stages during development. Several genes within the polymorphic haplotype blocks were differentially regulated. Additionally, a more global difference in the jasmonic acid pathway regulation was detected between the two genotypes. The results confirm that Golden Promise and Maythorpe are genetically very closely related but establish that they are not isogenic, as previously reported, due to three polymorphic haplotype blocks. Transcriptome analysis indicates that the response of the two genotypes to salinity stress is quite different. Additionally, the response to salinity stress in the roots and shoot tissue is strikingly different.
It is well known that abscisic acid (ABA) antagonizes gibberellin (GA)-promoted seed germination. Recent circumstantial evidence suggests that salicylic acid (SA) also inhibits seed germination in maize and Arabidopsis. Our study shows that SA blocks barley seed germination in a dosage dependent manner. As an initial effort to addressing the mechanism controlling the crosstalk of SA, GA and ABA signaling in barley, we studied the regulation of alpha-amylases by SA and a WRKY gene whose expression is modulated by these hormones. Assays of alpha-amylase activity reveal that GA-induced alpha-amylase production in aleurone cells is inhibited by bioactive SA, but not its analogs, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid. This inhibitory effect is unlikely due to repressing alpha-amylase secretion or inhibiting alpha-amylase enzyme activities. Northern blot analyses indicate that SA suppresses GA-induced expression of a barley low pI alpha-amylase gene (Amy32b). Because our previous data indicate that ABA-inducible and GA-suppressible WRKY genes inhibit the expression of alpha-amylase genes in rice, we studied the steady state mRNA levels of a barley WRKY gene, HvWRKY38. The expression of HvWRKY38 in barley aleurone cells is down-regulated by GA, but up-regulated by SA and ABA. However, the regulation of HvWRKY38 by SA appears to be different from that of ABA in term of the kinetics and levels of induction. Over-expression of HvWRKY38 in aleurone cells by particle bombardment blocks GA induction of the Amy32b promoter reporter construct (Amy32b-GUS). Therefore, HvWRKY38 might serve as a converging node of SA and ABA signal pathways involved in suppressing GA-induced seed germination.
In many plant-pathogen interactions, there are several possible outcomes for simultaneous attacks on the same leaf. For instance, an attack by the powdery mildew fungus on one barley leaf epidermal cell may succeed in infection and formation of a functional haustorium, whereas a neighboring cell attacked at the same time may resist fungal penetration. To date, the mixed cellular responses seen even in susceptible host leaves have made it difficult to relate induced changes in gene expression to resistance or susceptibility in bulk leaf samples. By microextraction of cell-specific mRNA and subsequent cDNA array analysis, we have successfully obtained separate gene expression profiles for specific mildew-resistant and -infected barley cells. Thus, for the first time, it is possible to identify genes that are specifically regulated in infected cells and, presumably, involved in fungal establishment. Further, although much is understood about the genetic basis of effective papilla resistance associated with mutant mlo barley, we provide here the first evidence for gene regulation associated with effective papilla-based nonspecific resistance expressed in nominally "susceptible" wild-type barley.
The FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) gene plays a central role in integrating flowering signals in Arabidopsis because its expression is regulated antagonistically by the photoperiod and vernalization pathways. FT belongs to a family of six genes characterized by a phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein (PEBP) domain. In rice (Oryza sativa), 19 PEBP genes were previously described, 13 of which are FT-like genes. Five FT-like genes were found in barley (Hordeum vulgare). HvFT1, HvFT2, HvFT3, and HvFT4 were highly homologous to OsFTL2 (the Hd3a QTL), OsFTL1, OsFTL10, and OsFTL12, respectively, and this relationship was supported by comparative mapping. No rice equivalent was found for HvFT5. HvFT1 was highly expressed under long-day (inductive) conditions at the time of the morphological switch of the shoot apex from vegetative to reproductive growth. HvFT2 and HvFT4 were expressed later in development. HvFT1 was therefore identified as the main barley FT-like gene involved in the switch to flowering. Mapping of HvFT genes suggests that they provide important sources of flowering-time variation in barley. HvFTI was a candidate for VRN-H3, a dominant mutation giving precocious flowering, while HvFT3 was a candidate for Ppd-H2, a major QTL affecting flowering time in short days.
In the present study, we characterized the gene (Cyanobase accession number slr0897) designated Ssglc encoding a beta-1,4-glucanase-like protein (SsGlc) from Synechocystis PCC6803. The deduced amino acid sequence for Ssglc showed a high degree of similarity to sequences of GH (glycoside hydrolase) family 9 beta-1,4-glucanases (cellulases) from various sources. Surprisingly, the recombinant protein obtained from the Escherichia coli expression system was able to hydrolyse barley beta-glucan and lichenan (beta-1,3-1,4-glucan), but not cellulose (beta-1,4-glucan), curdlan (beta-1,3-glucan), or laminarin (beta-1,3-1,6-glucan). A 1H-NMR analysis of the enzymatic products revealed that the enzyme hydrolyses the beta-1,4-glycosidic linkage of barley beta-glucan through an inverting mechanism. The data indicated that SsGlc was a novel type of GH9 glucanase which could specifically hydrolyse the beta-1,3-1,4-linkage of glucan. The growth of mutant Synechocystis cells in which the Ssglc gene was disrupted by a kanamycin-resistance cartridge gene was almost the same as that of the wild-type cells under continuous light (40 micromol of photons/m2 per s), a 12 h light (40 micromol of photons/m2 per s)/12 h dark cycle, cold stress (4 degrees C), and high light stress (200 micromol of photons/m2 per s). However, under salt stress (300-450 mM NaCl), growth of the Ssglc-disrupted mutant cells was significantly inhibited as compared with that of the wild-type cells. The Ssglc-disrupted mutant cells showed a decreased rate of O2 consumption and NaHCO3-dependent O2 evolution as compared with the wild-type cells under salt stress. Under osmotic stress (100-400 mM sorbitol), there was no difference in growth between the wild-type and the Ssglc-disrupted mutant cells. These results suggest that SsGlc functions in salt stress tolerance in Synechocystis PCC6803.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is a salt-tolerant member of the Triticeae. Recent transcriptome studies on salinity stress response in barley revealed regulation of jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthesis and JA-responsive genes by salt stress. From that observation and several other physiological reports, it was hypothesized that JA is involved in the adaptation of barley to salt stress. Here we tested that hypothesis by applying JA to barley plants and observing the physiological responses and transcriptome changes. Photosynthetic and sodium ion accumulation responses were compared after (1) salinity stress, (2) JA treatment and (3) JA pre-treatment followed by salinity stress. The JA-pre-treated salt-stressed plants accumulated strikingly low levels of Na(+) in the shoot tissue compared with untreated salt-stressed plants after several days of exposure to stress. In addition, pre-treatment with JA partially alleviated photosynthetic inhibition caused by salinity stress. Expression profiling after a short-term exposure to salinity stress indicated a considerable overlap between genes regulated by salinity stress and JA application. Three JA-regulated genes, arginine decarboxylase, ribulose 1.5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) activase and apoplastic invertase are possibly involved in salinity tolerance mediated by JA. This work provides a reference data set for further study of the role of JA in salinity tolerance in barley and other plants species.
At present, little is known about the phytases of plant seeds in spite of the fact that this group of enzymes is the primary determinant for the utilization of the major phosphate storage compound in seeds, phytic acid. We report the cloning and characterization of complementary DNAs (cDNAs) encoding one of the groups of enzymes with phytase activity, the multiple inositol phosphate phosphatases (MINPPs). Four wheat cDNAs (TaPhyIIa1, TaPhyIIa2, TaPhyIIb and TaPhyIIc) and three barley cDNAs (HvPhyIIa1, HvPhyIIa2 and HvPhyIIb) were isolated. The open reading frames ranged from 1548 to 1554 bp and the level of homology between the barley and wheat proteins ranged from 90.5% to 91.9%. All cDNAs contained an N-terminal signal peptide encoding sequence, and a KDEL-like sequence, KTEL, was present at the C-terminal, indicating that the enzyme was targeted to and retained within the endoplasmic reticulum. Expression of TaPhyIIa2 and HvPhyIIb in Escherichia coli revealed that the MINPPs possessed a significant phytase activity with narrow substrate specificity for phytate. The pH and temperature optima for both enzymes were pH 4.5 and 65 degrees C, respectively, and the K(m) values for phytate were 246 and 334 microm for the wheat and barley recombinant enzymes, respectively. The enzymes were inhibited by several metal ions, in particular copper and zinc. The cDNAs showed significantly different temporal and tissue-specific expression patterns during seed development and germination. With the exception of TaPhyIIb, the cDNAs were present during late seed development and germination. We conclude that MINPPs constitute a significant part of the endogenous phytase potential of the developing and germinating barley and wheat seeds.
A plant lectin was isolated from barley (Hordeum vulgare) coleoptiles using acidic extraction and different chromatographic methods. Sequencing of more than 50% of the protein sequence by Edman degradation confirmed a full-length cDNA clone. The subsequently identified open reading frame encodes for a 15 kDa protein which could be found in the soluble fraction of barley coleoptiles. This protein exhibited specificity towards mannose sugar and is therefore, accordingly named as Horcolin (Hordeum vulgare coleoptile lectin). Database searches performed with the Horcolin protein sequence revealed a sequence and structure homology to the lectin family of jacalin-related lectins. Together with its affinity towards mannose, Horcolin is now identified as a new member of the mannose specific subgroup of jacalin-related lectins in monocot species. Horcolin shares a high amino acid homology to the highly light-inducible protein HL#2 and, in addition to two methyl jasmonic acid-inducible proteins of 32.6 and 32.7 kDa where the jasmonic acid-inducible proteins are examples of bitopic chimerolectins containing a dirigent and jacalin-related domain. Immunoblot analysis with a cross-reactive anti-HL#2 antibody in combination with Northern blot analysis of the Horcolin cDNA revealed tissue specific expression of Horcolin in the coleoptiles. The function of Horcolin is discussed in the context of its particular expression in coleoptiles and is then compared to other lectins, which apparently share a related response to biotic or abiotic stress factors.
Proteins of the 14-3-3 family have well-defined functions as regulators of plant primary metabolism and ion homeostasis. However, neither their function nor action mechanism in plant hormonal signaling have been fully addressed. Here we show that abscisic acid (ABA) affects both expression and protein levels of five 14-3-3 isoforms in embryonic barley roots. As ABA prolongs the presence of 14-3-3 proteins in the elongating radicle, we tested whether 14-3-3s are instrumental in ABA action using RNA interference. Transient co-expression of 14-3-3 RNAi constructs along with an ABA-responsive promoter showed that each 14-3-3 is functional in generating an ABA response. In a yeast two-hybrid screen, we identified three new 14-3-3 interactors that belong to the ABF protein family. Moreover, using a yeast two-hybrid assay, we show that the transcription factor HvABI5, which binds to cis-acting elements of the ABA-inducible HVA1 promoter, interacts with three of the five 14-3-3s. Our analyses identify two 14-3-3 binding motifs in HvABI5 that are essential for 14-3-3 binding and proper in vivo trans-activation activity of HvABI5. In line with these results, 14-3-3 silencing effectively blocks trans-activation. Our results indicate that 14-3-3 genes/proteins are not only under the control of ABA, but that they control ABA action as well.
Drought is one of the most severe stresses limiting plant growth and yield. Genes involved in water stress tolerance of wild barley (Hordeum spontaneoum), the progenitor of cultivated barley, were investigated using genotypes contrasting in their response to water stress. Gene expression profiles of water-stress tolerant vs. water-stress sensitive wild barley genotypes, under severe dehydration stress applied at the seedling stage, were compared using cDNA-AFLP analysis. Of the 1100 transcript-derived fragments (TDFs) amplified about 70 displayed differential expression between control and stress conditions. Eleven of them showed clear difference (up- or down-regulation) between tolerant and susceptible genotypes. These TDFs were isolated, sequenced and tested by RT-PCR. The differential expression of seven TDFs was confirmed by RT-PCR, and TDF-4 was selected as a promising candidate gene for water-stress tolerance. The corresponding gene, designated Hsdr4 (Hordeum spontaneum dehydration-responsive), was sequenced and the transcribed and flanking regions were determined. The deduced amino acid sequence has similarity to the rice Rho-GTPase-activating protein-like with a Sec14 p-like lipid-binding domain. Analysis of Hsdr4 promoter region that was isolated by screening a barley BAC library, revealed a new putative miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (MITE), and several potential stress-related binding sites for transcription factors (MYC, MYB, LTRE, and GT-1), suggesting a role of the Hsdr4 gene in plant tolerance to dehydration stress. Furthermore, the Hsdr4 gene was mapped using wild barley mapping population to the long arm of chromosome 3H between markers EBmac541 and EBmag705, within a region that previously was shown to affect osmotic adaptation in barley.
The plant growth-promoting effect of Pseudomonas putida S-313 is associated with its ability to desulfurize arylsulfonates. To understand this further, other plant-associated bacteria able to desulfurize a range of arylsulfonates were isolated from the rhizospheres of winter and spring barley. The isolates belonged to the beta-proteobacteria, including bacteria from the Variovorax paradoxus group and from the Acidovorax genus. They desulfurized toluenesulfonate to p-cresol, and were found to contain orthologues of the P. putida S-313 asfA gene (> 70% sequence identity to AsfA), which is required for aryldesulfonation in this species. Further putative asfA orthologues were identified in several bacteria and cyanobacteria whose genomes have been sequenced, but of these only Cupriavidus (Ralstonia) metallidurans was able to utilize arylsulfonates as sulfur source. Cultivation of V. paradoxus, C. metallidurans or P. putida S-313 with toluenesulfonate as sulfur source led to a 100-fold increase in expression of the asfA homologues, which was largely repressed when sulfate was added. Polymerase chain reaction with degenerate primers was used to generate asfAB clone libraries from spring- and winter-barley rhizosphere DNA. Cluster analysis of 76 sequenced AsfA fragments revealed a broad diversity, with the majority of the sequences clustered together with AsfA from bacteria that are able to utilize toluenesulfonate as sulfur source. The diversity of asfA in barley rhizosphere underlines the importance of the desulfonation process for bacteria that inhabit the plant rhizosphere.
Increased seed production has been a common goal during the domestication of cereal crops, and early cultivators of barley (Hordeum vulgare ssp. vulgare) selected a phenotype with a six-rowed spike that stably produced three times the usual grain number. This improved yield established barley as a founder crop for the Near Eastern Neolithic civilization. The barley spike has one central and two lateral spikelets at each rachis node. The wild-type progenitor (H. vulgare ssp. spontaneum) has a two-rowed phenotype, with additional, strictly rudimentary, lateral rows; this natural adaptation is advantageous for seed dispersal after shattering. Until recently, the origin of the six-rowed phenotype remained unknown. In the present study, we isolated vrs1 (six-rowed spike 1), the gene responsible for the six-rowed spike in barley, by means of positional cloning. The wild-type Vrs1 allele (for two-rowed barley) encodes a transcription factor that includes a homeodomain with a closely linked leucine zipper motif. Expression of Vrs1 was strictly localized in the lateral-spikelet primordia of immature spikes, suggesting that the VRS1 protein suppresses development of the lateral rows. Loss of function of Vrs1 resulted in complete conversion of the rudimentary lateral spikelets in two-rowed barley into fully developed fertile spikelets in the six-rowed phenotype. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that the six-rowed phenotype originated repeatedly, at different times and in different regions, through independent mutations of Vrs1.
An integrated barley transcript map (consensus map) comprising 1,032 expressed sequence tag (EST)-based markers (total 1,055 loci: 607 RFLP, 190 SSR, and 258 SNP), and 200 anchor markers from previously published data, has been generated by mapping in three doubled haploid (DH) populations. Between 107 and 179 EST-based markers were allocated to the seven individual barley linkage groups. The map covers 1118.3 cM with individual linkage groups ranging from 130 cM (chromosome 4H) to 199 cM (chromosome 3H), yielding an average marker interval distance of 0.9 cM. 475 EST-based markers showed a syntenic organisation to known colinear linkage groups of the rice genome, providing an extended insight into the status of barley/rice genome colinearity as well as ancient genome duplications predating the divergence of rice and barley. The presented barley transcript map is a valuable resource for targeted marker saturation and identification of candidate genes at agronomically important loci. It provides new anchor points for detailed studies in comparative grass genomics and will support future attempts towards the integration of genetic and physical mapping information.
Abiotic stresses such as extreme temperatures, low water availability, high salt and mineral deficiencies or toxicities severely diminish productivity of cereal crops. These stresses are becoming increasingly important because of the declining availability of good quality water, land degradation and community pressures to move away from chemical intervention in agriculture. Of the major cereals, wheat and barley are grown in the most hostile and consequently lowest yielding environments. Extensive genetic studies and surveys of landrace and wild germplasm have indicated extensive variation for abiotic stress tolerance but this has been difficult to exploit due to the relatively poor background knowledge of the molecular basis for stress in these species. Interconnected signal transduction pathways that lead to multiple responses to abiotic stresses have been difficult to study using traditional approaches because of their complexity and the large number of genes and gene products involved in the various defensive and developmental responses of the plant. Functional genomics is now widely seen as providing tools for dissecting abiotic stress responses in wheat and barley, through which networks of stress perception, signal transduction and defensive responses can be examined from gene transcription, through protein complements of cells, to the metabolite profiles of stressed tissues.
In prokaryotes and eukaryotes, multidrug resistance (MDR) transporters use energy-dependent efflux action to regulate the intracellular levels of antibiotic or xenobiotic compounds. Using mutational analysis of ABC3, we define an important role for such MDR-based efflux during the host penetration step of Magnaporthe grisea pathogenesis. Mutants lacking ABC3 were completely nonpathogenic but were surprisingly capable of penetrating thin cellophane membranes to some extent. The inability of abc3Delta to penetrate the host surface was most likely a consequence of excessive buildup of peroxide and accumulation of an inhibitory metabolite(s) within the mutant appressoria. Treatment with antioxidants partially suppressed the host penetration defects in the abc3Delta mutant. abc3Delta was highly sensitive to oxidative stress and was unable to survive the host environment and invasive growth conditions. ABC3 transcript levels were redox-regulated, and on host surfaces, the activation of ABC3 occurred during initial stages of blast disease establishment. An Abc3-green fluorescent protein fusion localized to the plasma membrane in early appressoria (and in penetration hyphae) but became predominantly vacuolar during appressorial maturity. We propose that ABC3 function helps Magnaporthe to cope with cytotoxicity and oxidative stress within the appressoria during early stages of infection-related morphogenesis and likely imparts defense against certain antagonistic and xenobiotic conditions encountered during pathogenic development.
The vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) is a key enzyme that controls the electrochemical proton potential across endomembranes. Although evidence suggests that V-ATPase is important for photo-morphogenesis, little is known about short-term regulation of V-ATPase upon initiation of the photo-morphogenetic programme by exposure of dark-grown plants to light. In this study, etiolated coleoptiles were given a short blue light treatment and V-ATPase characteristics were determined. The effectiveness of the light treatment was assessed by means of fusicoccin binding to the plasma membrane; this increased 5-fold. The short light treatment also induced a 2-fold to 3-fold increase in the hydrolytic activity of V-ATPase. Members of the 14-3-3 protein family are involved in both blue light perception and the subsequent activation of the P-type ATPase. We provide evidence that 14-3-3 proteins specifically interact with the catalytic A-subunit of the V-ATPase. First, the isolated V1-part of the V-ATPase co-purifies with 14-3-3 on a gel filtration column. Secondly, in an overlay experiment, 14-3-3 interacts with a 68 kDa band that was identified as the V1 A-subunit by mass spectrometry. Thirdly, in 14-3-3 affinity chromatography, both A- and B-subunits of the catalytic moiety of the V-ATPase were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization tandem time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI TOF/TOF MS) as 14-3-3-interacting proteins. It was shown that the A-subunit can be phosphorylated in vitro by a tonoplast-bound kinase, whose properties are affected by blue light. Taken together, the data show that besides the P- and F-type H(+)-ATPases, the V-type H(+)-ATPase also interacts with 14-3-3 proteins.
A novel genetic transformation method for barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), based on infection of androgenetic pollen cultures with Agrobacterium tumefaciens, is presented. Winter-type barley cv. 'Igri' was amenable to stable integration of transgenes mediated by A. tumefaciens strain LBA4404 harbouring a vector system that confers hypervirulence, or by the non-hypervirulent strain GV3101 with a standard binary vector. The efficacy of gene transfer was substantially influenced by pollen pre-culture time, choice of Agrobacterium strain and vector system, Agrobacterium population density, medium pH and the concentrations of acetosyringone, CaCl(2) and glutamine. After co-culture, rapid removal of viable agrobacteria was crucial for subsequent development of the pollen culture. To this end, the growth of agrobacteria was suppressed by the concerted effects of appropriate antibiotics, low pH, reduced level of glutamine and high concentrations of CaCl(2) and acetosyringone. Following infection with LBA4404 and GV3101, about 31% and 69%, respectively, of the primary transgenic (T(0)) plants carried a single copy of the sequence integrated. The use of hypervirulent A. tumefaciens and hygromycin resistance as a selectable marker resulted in 3.7 T(0) plants per donor spike. About 60% of the primary transgenic plants set seed, indicating spontaneous genome doubling. An analysis of 20 T(1) populations revealed that four progenies did not segregate for reporter gene expression. This indicates that the approach pursued enables the generation of instantly homozygous primary transgenic plants. The method established will be a valuable tool in functional genomics as well as for the biotechnological improvement of barley.
Transgenic approaches to combating fungal pathogens, such as Fusarium graminearum, require the targeting of antifungal gene expression in tissues of developing seed spikes of cereal grains, especially lemmas and epicarps. The Lem2 gene of barley encodes a lectin-like protein that is strongly up-regulated by salicylic acid and is preferentially expressed in lemmas, paleas (lemma/palea) and coleoptiles. Transient expression studies have indicated that the proximal -75/+70 region (relative to the transcription start site) determines organ specificity. In the present study, Golden Promise barley stably transformed with Morex Lem2 promoter/gfp reporter constructs displayed cell- and development-specific expression of gfp (green fluorescent protein gene). This expression corresponded to the expression seen in Northern blots of Morex organs. Under the full-length promoter, strong GFP fluorescence was observed in the lemma/palea, glumes, coleoptile, auricle and ligule. Weak GFP fluorescence was also observed in the rachis, tips of primary leaves and the leaf sheath. Unexpectedly, strong expression occurred in the epicarp, even though Lem2 is not expressed in this organ in Morex. Studies showed that the Lem2 promoter is more highly methylated in the epicarp than in the lemma of Morex. In the lemma/palea, gfp underwent a temporal shift in expression from the mesophyll to specialized epidermal cork cells. Similar to the lemma/palea, expression in the leaf sheath was localized in the cork cells. Progressive 5' deletions of the promoter to nucleotide -75 gradually reduced the level of gfp expression, but tissue- and cell-specific expression was retained.
Freshly harvested barley seeds are considered as dormant since they do not germinate at temperatures above 20 degrees C. This dormancy is broken during dry storage. Molecular regulation of dormancy was investigated using cDNA-AFLP to identify transcripts differentially expressed in dormant and non-dormant embryos. Transcript patterns in embryos from dry dormant and non-dormant seeds and from both seeds imbibed for 5 h at 30 degrees C, a temperature at which dormancy is expressed, were compared. Thirty-nine Transcript-Derived Fragments (TDF) that were reproducibly differentially expressed among treatments were identified, and 25 of these were cloned and sequenced. Among these, eight transcripts were observed to be differentially expressed during after-ripening, seven of which decline, probably due to post-maturation degradation. HV13B, TDF identified as having homology to fructose-6-phosphate-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-biphosphatase, may have a role in the maintenance of dormancy in barley and probably in other cereals. During the first 5 h of imbibition, there was expression of 24 TDF which was apparently independent of dormancy, revealing putative epigenetic regulation. This was typified by HV44A, a SET domain protein. Seven TDF differentially expressed, and especially HV12D, HV42B, and HV32B, in dormant and non-dormant seeds were potential signalling elements. HV12D had homology with an ARIADNE gene which could be implicated in ABA signalling.
This study describes the identification of over 150 target proteins of the five 14-3-3 isoforms in 7-d-old barley (Hordeum vulgare) cv Himalaya seedlings using yeast two-hybrid screens complemented with 14-3-3 protein affinity purification and tandem mass spectrometry. Independent experiments for a subset of genes confirmed the yeast two-hybrid interactions, demonstrating a low false positive identification rate. These combined approaches resulted in the identification of more than 150 putative targets; 15% were previously reported to be 14-3-3 interactors, including, for example, Serpin, RF2A, WPK4 kinase, P-type proton-translocating adenosine triphosphatase, EF1A, glutamine synthetase, and invertases. The affinity purification resulted in 30 interactors, of which 44% function in metabolism, while the yeast two-hybrid screens identified 132 different proteins, with 35% of the proteins involved in signal transduction. A number of proteins have a well-described function in hormonal signaling, such as the auxin transport protein PIN1 and NPH3 and components of the brassinosteroid pathway, such as the receptor kinase BAK1 (OsPERK1) and BRI1-kinase domain-interacting protein 129. However, 14-3-3 interactions with these signal mediators have not been confirmed in the affinity purification. Confirmations of the 14-3-3 interaction with the three ABF-like transcription factors are shown using far western analysis. Also, a REPRESSION OF SHOOT GROWTH ortholog named RF2A was identified; these transcription factors play important roles in the abscisic acid and gibberellin pathways, respectively. We speculate that 14-3-3 proteins have a role in cross talk between these hormonal pathways. The specificity and complementary nature of both the affinity purification and the yeast two-hybrid approaches is discussed.
Winter wheat and barley varieties require an extended exposure to low temperatures to accelerate flowering (vernalization), whereas spring varieties do not have this requirement. In this study, we show that in these species, the vernalization gene VRN3 is linked completely to a gene similar to Arabidopsis FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT). FT induction in the leaves results in a transmissible signal that promotes flowering. Transcript levels of the barley and wheat orthologues, designated as HvFT and TaFT, respectively, are significantly higher in plants homozygous for the dominant Vrn3 alleles (early flowering) than in plants homozygous for the recessive vrn3 alleles (late flowering). In wheat, the dominant Vrn3 allele is associated with the insertion of a retroelement in the TaFT promoter, whereas in barley, mutations in the HvFT first intron differentiate plants with dominant and recessive VRN3 alleles. Winter wheat plants transformed with the TaFT allele carrying the promoter retroelement insertion flowered significantly earlier than nontransgenic plants, supporting the identity between TaFT and VRN-B3. Statistical analyses of flowering times confirmed the presence of significant interactions between vernalization and FT allelic classes in both wheat and barley (P < 0.0001). These interactions were supported further by the observed up-regulation of HvFT transcript levels by vernalization in barley winter plants (P = 0.002). These results confirmed that the wheat and barley FT genes are responsible for natural allelic variation in vernalization requirement, providing additional sources of adaptive diversity to these economically important crops.
Mg-chelatase catalyzes the insertion of Mg2+ into protoporphyrin IX at the first committed step of the chlorophyll biosynthetic pathway. It consists of three subunits: I, D, and H. The I subunit belongs to the AAA protein superfamily (ATPases associated with various cellular activities) that is known to form hexameric ring structures in an ATP-dependant fashion. Dominant mutations in the I subunit revealed that it functions in a cooperative manner. We demonstrated that the D subunit forms ATP-independent oligomeric structures and should also be classified as an AAA protein. Furthermore, we addressed the question of cooperativity of the D subunit with barley (Hordeum vulgare) mutant analyses. The recessive behavior in vivo was explained by the absence of mutant proteins in the barley cell. Analogous mutations in Rhodobacter capsulatus and the resulting D proteins were studied in vitro. Mixtures of wild-type and mutant R. capsulatus D subunits showed a lower activity compared with wild-type subunits alone. Thus, the mutant D subunits displayed dominant behavior in vitro, revealing cooperativity between the D subunits in the oligomeric state. We propose a model where the D oligomer forms a platform for the stepwise assembly of the I subunits. The cooperative behavior suggests that the D oligomer takes an active part in the conformational dynamics between the subunits of the enzyme.
Serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) was applied to the major cereal crop barley (Hordeum vulgare) to characterize the transcriptional profile of grain during the malting process. Seven SAGE libraries were generated from seed at different time points during malting, in addition to one library from dry mature seed. A total of 155,206 LongSAGE tags, representing 41,909 unique sequences, was generated. This study reports an in-depth analysis of the most abundant transcripts from each of eight specific time points in a malting barley time course. The 100 most abundant tags from each library were analysed to identify the putative functional role of highly abundant transcripts. The largest functional groups included transcripts coding for stress response and cell defence, ribosomal proteins and storage proteins. The most abundant tag represented B22EL8, a barley metallothionein, which showed significant up-regulation across the malting time course. Considerable changes in the abundance profiles of some of the highly abundant tags occurred at 24 h post-steeping, indicating that it may be an important time point for gene expression changes associated with barley seed germination.
Barley plants having wild-type or mutant alleles at the MLO locus show opposite responses to infection with different pathogens, i.e. plants homozygous for mutant alleles (mlo) are resistant to powdery mildew but hypersusceptible to the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae and vice versa for plants with at least one wild-type MLO-allele. A mutational analysis was performed in the mlo-genetic background aimed at identifying of individuals with restored resistance against M. oryzae. Here, we describe the barley enhanced Magnaporthe resistance (emr1) mutant which showed restored resistance against blast in the absence of wild-type MLO. The emr1 mutant could be classified as a loss of function mutant. It could be excluded that resistance of emr1 is a back-mutation at the mlo-locus, because emr1 retained resistance against Bgh. The mutant did not display generally increased resistance as was evidenced by infection with either brown rust or net blotch pathogens. Additionally, resistance in emr1 was not associated with constitutively activated defence as confirmed by monitoring PR-gene transcript accumulation. Microscopic analysis showed that resistance of the emr1 mutant against M. oryzae was correlated with blocked penetration in epidermal cells and a concomitantly reduced progression into the mesophyll. These findings are reminiscent of the defence phenotypes against M. oryzae previously described for wild-type barley MLO genotypes. Therefore, it is tempting to speculate that resistance in the emr1 mutant was regained by the knockdown of putative suppressor element(s) acting in the defence scenario against M. oryzae, which diminish resistance only in mlo but not in MLO genotypes.
Traditionally housekeeping genes have been employed as endogenous reference (internal control) genes for normalization in gene expression studies. Since the utilization of single housekeepers cannot assure an unbiased result, new normalization methods involving multiple housekeeping genes and normalizing using their mean expression have been recently proposed. Moreover, since a gold standard gene suitable for every experimental condition does not exist, it is also necessary to validate the expression stability of every putative control gene on the specific requirements of the planned experiment. As a consequence, finding a good set of reference genes is for sure a non-trivial problem requiring quite a lot of lab-based experimental testing. In this work we identified novel candidate barley reference genes suitable for normalization in gene expression studies. An advanced web search approach aimed to collect, from publicly available web resources, the most interesting information regarding the expression profiling of candidate housekeepers on a specific experimental basis has been set up and applied, as an example, on stress conditions. A complementary lab-based analysis has been carried out to verify the expression profile of the selected genes in different tissues and during heat shock response. This combined dry/wet approach can be applied to any species and physiological condition of interest and can be considered very helpful to identify putative reference genes to be shortlisted every time a new experimental design has to be set up.
Cell death suppressor Bax inhibitor-1 (BI-1), an endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein, exists in a wide range of organisms. The split-ubiquitin system, overlay assay, and bimolecular fluorescence complementation analysis demonstrated that Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) BI-1 (AtBI-1) interacted with calmodulin in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and in plant cells. Furthermore, AtBI-1 failed to rescue yeast mutants lacking Ca2+ ATPase (Pmr1 or Spf1) from Bax-induced cell death. Pmr1 and Spf1, p-type ATPases localized at the inner membrane, are believed to be involved in transmembrane movement of calcium ions in yeast. Thus, the presence of intact Ca2+ ATPases was essential for AtBI-1-mediated cell death suppression in yeast. To investigate the effect of AtBI-1 on calcium homeostasis, we evaluated sensitivity against cyclopiazonic acid (CPA), an inhibitor of sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase in AtBI-1-overexpressing or knock-down transgenic Arabidopsis plants. These plants demonstrated altered CPA or ion stress sensitivity. Furthermore, AtBI-1-overexpressing cells demonstrated an attenuated rise in cytosolic calcium following CPA or H2O2 treatment, suggesting that AtBI-1 affects ion homeostasis in plant cell death regulation.
Fungi of the recently defined order Sebacinales (Basidiomycota) are involved in a wide spectrum of mutualistic symbioses (including mycorrhizae) with various plants, thereby exhibiting a unique potential for biocontrol strategies. The axenically cultivable root endophyte Piriformospora indica is a model organism of this fungal order. It is able to increase biomass and grain yield of crop plants. In barley, the endophyte induces local and systemic resistance to fungal diseases and to abiotic stress. To elucidate the lifestyle of P. indica, we analyzed its symbiotic interaction and endophytic development in barley roots. We found that fungal colonization increases with root tissue maturation. The root tip meristem showed no colonization, and the elongation zone showed mainly intercellular colonization. In contrast, the differentiation zone was heavily infested by inter- and intracellular hyphae and intracellular chlamydospores. The majority of hyphae were present in dead rhizodermal and cortical cells that became completely filled with chlamydospores. In some cases, hyphae penetrated cells and built a meshwork around plasmolyzed protoplasts, suggesting that the fungus either actively kills cells or senses cells undergoing endogenous programmed cell death. Seven days after inoculation, expression of barley BAX inhibitor-1 (HvBI-1), a gene capable of inhibiting plant cell death, was attenuated. Consistently, fungal proliferation was strongly inhibited in transgenic barley overexpressing GFP-tagged HvBI-1, which shows that P. indica requires host cell death for proliferation in differentiated barley roots. We suggest that the endophyte interferes with the host cell death program to form a mutualistic interaction with plants.
To study protein ubiquitination pathways in the interaction of barley (Hordeum vulgare) with the powdery mildew fungus (Blumeria graminis), we measured protein turnover and performed transient-induced gene silencing (TIGS) of ubiquitin and 26S proteasome subunit encoding genes in epidermal cells. Attack by B. graminis hyperdestabilized a novel unstable green fluorescent protein fusion that contains a destabilization domain of a putative barley 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase, suggesting enhanced protein turnover. Partial depletion of cellular ubiquitin levels by TIGS induced extreme susceptibility of transformed cells toward the appropriate host pathogen B. graminis f. sp hordei, whereas papilla-based resistance to the nonhost pathogen B. graminis f. sp tritici and host resistance mediated by the mlo gene (for mildew resistance locus O) remained unaffected. Cells were rescued from TIGS-induced ubiquitin depletion by synthetic genes encoding wild-type or mutant barley monoubiquitin proteins. The strongest rescue was from a gene encoding a K63R mutant form of ubiquitin blocked in several ubiquitination pathways while still allowing Lys-48-dependent polyubiquitination required for proteasomal protein degradation. Systematic RNA interference of 40 genes encoding all 17 subunits of the proteasome 19S regulatory particle failed to induce hypersusceptibility against B. graminis f. sp hordei. This suggests a role for Lys-48-linked protein polyubiquitination, which is independent from the proteasome pathway, in basal host defense of barley.
Analysis of the functions of Short Vegetative Phase (SVP)-like MADS-box genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare) indicated a role in determining meristem identity. Three SVP-like genes are expressed in vegetative tissues of barley: Barley MADS1 (BM1), BM10, and Vegetative to Reproductive Transition gene 2. These genes are induced by cold but are repressed during floral development. Ectopic expression of BM1 inhibited spike development and caused floral reversion in barley, with florets at the base of the spike replaced by tillers. Head emergence was delayed in plants that ectopically express BM1, primarily by delayed development after the floral transition, but expression levels of the barley VRN1 gene (HvVRN1) were not affected. Ectopic expression of BM10 inhibited spike development and caused partial floral reversion, where florets at the base of the spike were replaced by inflorescence-like structures, but did not affect heading date. Floral reversion occurred more frequently when BM1 and BM10 ectopic expression lines were grown in short-day conditions. BM1 and BM10 also inhibited floral development and caused floral reversion when expressed in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). We conclude that SVP-like genes function to suppress floral meristem identity in winter cereals.
A microarray including 1654 cDNAs, mainly derived from dehydration-shocked barley leaf tissues, was utilized to monitor expression changes in leaves of barley plants subjected to slow drying conditions (7 d and 11 d: 7d-WS and 11d-WS) in soil and after rehydration. The results were compared with those obtained under shock-like conditions imposed with a 6 h dehydration treatment. A total number of 173 transcripts (approximately 10% of all transcripts profiled) were declared up- or down-regulated in at least one of the conditions tested. The majority of the transcripts were regulated by only one of the drought treatments, with 57% of the differentially expressed transcripts exclusively affected in the dehydration shock treatment, 6% at 7d-WS, 14% at 11d-WS, and 6% after rehydration. Irrespective of the low percentage of transcripts (10%) with similar expression changes between shock and slow stress treatments, a sizeable portion of these transcripts shared a common expression trend under the different drought treatment conditions, as evidenced by low but significant correlations between the fast occurring and the 7d-WS and 11d-WS treatments (r=0.32 and 0.41, P=0.001, respectively). These results are discussed with respect to the merit of different dehydration treatments in the investigation of the changes in transcript profiling.
The objectives of this study were to test the feasibility of introducing barley hva1 gene, a LEA3 member, into perennial grass species using the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation technique and to determine whether heterologous expression of hva1 would alleviate water-deficit injury in grass species. Creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera var. palustris), a drought-intolerant grass species, was transformed transiently or stably using three different promoters in conjunction with the downstream report/target genes. Two abscisic acid (ABA)-inducible promoters, ABA1 and ABA2 derived from ABA-response complex (ABRC3) were used to examine stress-responsive expression of the green fluorescent protein (GFP). Transient expression of GFP demonstrated the inducibility of ABA1 and ABA2 promoters in response to exogenous ABA application. The ABA2 promoter was further studied for stress-responsive expression of hva1 and a maize Ubi-1 promoter was tested for constitutive expression of the gene. In the T(0) generation, the Ubi-1::hva1 transformants displayed variable expression levels of HVA1 protein under normal growth conditions. The hva1 gene in the ABA2::hva1 transformants maintained low expression under well-watered conditions, but was upregulated under water-deficit conditions. The tolerance to water deficit of T(0) transgenic lines was assessed by measuring leaf relative water content and visually rating the severity of leaf wilting during to water stress. Under water-stressed conditions, some transgenic lines maintained high water content in leaves and showed significantly less extent of leaf wilting compared with non-transgenic control plants. These results indicated that the introduction of barley hva1 gene using constitutive or stress-inducible promoters lessened water-deficit injury in creeping bentgrass, suggesting that heterologous expression of LEA3 protein genes may enhance the survival ability of creeping bentgrass in water limiting environments.
Pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins associated with degradation of structural components of pathogenic filamentous fungi were overexpressed in the two-rowed malting barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivar Conlon. Transgenes were introduced by co-bombardment with two plasmids, one carrying a rice (Oryza sativa L.) chitinase gene (chi11) and another carrying a rice thaumatin-like protein gene (tlp). Each gene was under the control of the maize ubiquitin (Ubi1) promoter. Fifty-eight primary transformants from three independent transformation events were regenerated. T(1) plants with high rice chi11 and tlp protein expression levels were advanced to identify T(2) homozygotes by herbicide spray and subjected to further molecular analyses. T(3) progeny from one event (E2) had stable integration and expression of the rice chi11 and tlp while those from the other events (E1 and E3) showed stable integration only of tlp. The successful production of these lines overexpressing the antifungal chi and tlp proteins provides materials to test the effects of these genes on a variety of fungal diseases that attack barley and to serve as potential additional sources of disease resistance.
Phytocystatins are inhibitors of cysteine proteinases from plants putatively involved in defence and as endogenous regulators of protein turnover. Seven genes encoding cystatins (HvCPI-1 to HvCPI-7), identified from EST collections and from an endosperm cDNA library, have been characterized. The intron-exon structure of their corresponding ORFs has been determined and the predicted three-dimensional models for the seven barley cystatins have been established, based on the known crystal structure of oryzacystatin I from rice. Only one out of the seven deduced proteins, HvCPI-7, had sequence variations affecting the three conserved motifs implicated in the enzyme-inhibitor interaction. In three cases, HvCPI-5, HvCPI-6, and HvCPI-7, amino acid differences lead to the prediction of important structural changes in their three-dimensional structures. Northern blot analysis indicated that the seven genes have different expression patterns in barley tissues. The recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli showed distinct inhibitory properties in vitro, with different K(i) values, against the three cysteine proteinases tested: papain, cathepsin B, and cathepsin H. Moreover, these recombinant proteins presented differential fungicidal characteristics inhibiting the growth of phytopathogenic fungi Botrytis cinerea and Fusarium oxysporum in vitro. The resulting implications for the structural and functional diversity of the seven barley cystatins studied are discussed.
AtSUC9 (At5g06170), a sucrose (Suc) transporter from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) L. Heynh., was expressed in Xenopus (Xenopus laevis) oocytes, and transport activity was analyzed. Compared to all other Suc transporters, AtSUC9 had an ultrahigh affinity for Suc (K(0.5) = 0.066 +/- 0.025 mm). AtSUC9 showed low substrate specificity, similar to AtSUC2 (At1g22710), and transported a wide range of glucosides, including helicin, salicin, arbutin, maltose, fraxin, esculin, turanose, and alpha-methyl-d-glucose. The ability of AtSUC9 to transport 10 glucosides was compared directly with that of AtSUC2, HvSUT1 (from barley [Hordeum vulgare]), and ShSUT1 (from sugarcane [Saccharum hybrid]), and results indicate that type I and type II Suc transporters have different substrate specificities. AtSUC9 protein was localized to the plasma membrane by transient expression in onion (Allium cepa) epidermis. Using a whole-gene translational fusion to beta-glucuronidase, AtSUC9 expression was found in sink tissues throughout the shoots and in flowers. AtSUC9 expression in Arabidopsis was dependent on intragenic sequence, and this was found to also be true for AtSUC1 (At1g71880) but not AtSUC2. Plants containing mutations in Suc transporter gene AtSUC9 were found to have an early flowering phenotype under short-day conditions. The transport properties of AtSUC9 indicate that it is uniquely suited to provide cellular uptake of Suc at very low extracellular Suc concentrations. The mutant phenotype of atsuc9 alleles indicates that AtSUC9 activity leads to a delay in floral transition.
In a compatible interaction biotrophic fungi often lower the yield of their hosts by reducing photosynthesis and altering the fluxes of carbon within the infected leaf. In contrast, comparatively little is known about the metabolic consequences of activating resistance responses. In this study we investigated the hypothesis that the activation of both race-specific (Mla12) and broad-spectrum (mlo) resistance pathways in barley leaves infected with Blumeria graminis represents a cost to the plant in terms of carbon production and utilization. We have shown, using quantitative imaging of chlorophyll fluorescence, that during a susceptible interaction, photosynthesis was progressively reduced both in cells directly below fungal colonies and in adjacent cells when compared with uninoculated leaves. The lower rate of photosynthesis was associated with an increase in invertase activity, an accumulation of hexoses and a down-regulation of photosynthetic gene expression. During both Mla12- and mlo-mediated resistance, photosynthesis was also reduced, most severely inhibited in cells directly associated with attempted penetration of the fungus but also in surrounding cells. These cells displayed intense autofluorescence under ultraviolet illumination indicative of the accumulation of phenolic compounds and/or callose deposition. The depression in photosynthesis was not due only to cell death but also to an alteration in source-sink relations and carbon utilization. Apoplastic (cell wall-bound) invertase activity increased more rapidly and to a much greater extent than in infected susceptible leaves and was accompanied by an accumulation of hexoses that was localized to areas of the leaf actively exhibiting resistance responses. The accumulation of hexoses was accompanied by a down-regulation in the expression of Rubisco (rbcS) and chlorophyll a/b binding protein (cab) genes (although to a lesser extent than in a compatible interaction) and with an up-regulation in the expression of the pathogenesis-related protein 1 (PR-1). These results are consistent with a role for invertase in the generation of hexoses, which may supply energy for defence reactions and/or act as signals inducing defence gene expression.
Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is used to analyze gene function in dicotyledonous plants but less so in monocotyledonous plants (particularly rice and corn), partially due to the limited number of virus expression vectors available. Here, we report the cloning and modification for VIGS of a virus from Festuca arundinacea Schreb. (tall fescue) that caused systemic mosaic symptoms on barley, rice, and a specific cultivar of maize (Va35) under greenhouse conditions. Through sequencing, the virus was determined to be a strain of Brome mosaic virus (BMV). The virus was named F-BMV (F for Festuca), and genetic determinants that controlled the systemic infection of rice were mapped to RNAs 1 and 2 of the tripartite genome. cDNA from RNA 3 of the Russian strain of BMV (R-BMV) was modified to accept inserts from foreign genes. Coinoculation of RNAs 1 and 2 from F-BMV and RNA 3 from R-BMV expressing a portion of a plant gene to leaves of barley, rice, and maize plants resulted in visual silencing-like phenotypes. The visual phenotypes were correlated with decreased target host transcript levels in the corresponding leaves. The VIGS visual phenotype varied from maintained during silencing of actin 1 transcript expression to transient with incomplete penetration through affected tissue during silencing of phytoene desaturase expression. F-BMV RNA 3 was modified to allow greater accumulation of virus while minimizing virus pathogenicity. The modified vector C-BMV(A/G) (C for chimeric) was shown to be useful for VIGS. These BMV vectors will be useful for analysis of gene function in rice and maize for which no VIGS system is reported.
Reactive oxygen intermediates (ROI) are closely related to defence reactions of plants against pathogens. A prominent role in the production of ROI has been attributed to the plant respiratory burst oxidase homologues (RBOH) of the human phagocyte GP91(phox). A barley RBOH, which encodes a putative superoxide (O2*-)) producing NADPH oxidase, is described here. Histochemical analysis of the barley-Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh) interaction showed that O(2*-) is produced locally at the site of penetration. In contrast, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) is produced in non-penetrated cell wall appositions. A barley RBOHA cDNA was isolated and a minor induction of expression of RBOHA was observed during the interactions of barley with Bgh. Transient RNA interference-mediated gene silencing of HvRBOHA during the penetration process of Bgh led to an increase of basal penetration resistance. The results support a potential role of HvRBOHA in cellular accessibility to Blumeria graminis.
Fungi have the potential to produce a wide range of secondary metabolites including polyketides and small peptides produced by nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NPS). Fusarium graminearum is a mycotoxin producing pathogen of cereals and knowledge of the infection process is essential for the development of disease control. Bioinformatics provide a means to identify genes encoding NPSs, the products of which may act as fungal virulence factors. The F. graminearum genome sequence was analysed and similarity searches and application of prediction server service identified 15 putative NPS genes. NPS1 and NPS2, were found to be related to genes involved in NPS hydroxamate siderophore biosynthesis and chemical analysis of a F. graminearum NPS2 deletion mutant showed that this gene encodes the NPS responsible for the biosynthesis of ferricrocin. The expression of the NPS genes was analysed in Fusarium culmorum. NPS1 and NPS19 differed from the remainder of the genes, as they were only expressed during infection of barley roots and not under the different culture conditions tested. Strains of F. graminearum, F. culmorum and Fusarium pseudograminearum were examined for the presence and expression of the 15 identified NPS genes. With the exception of NPS18, that is absent in F. pseudograminearum, all the NPS genes are represented in the diffferent species. Lack of transcripts from some genes and the presence of frameshift and stop codons in four of the NPS genes in the sequenced F. graminearum strain suggest that some are pseudogenes.
Free porphyrins and their magnesium complexes, including chlorophylls, are potent photo-sensitizers. Plants usually accumulate these compounds bound to proteins together with protective compounds like carotenoids. Besides their protective role, carotenoids can play a structural role in these complexes. To analyze the effect of impaired carotenogenesis on plastid membranes we applied to barley seedlings the bleaching herbicide 2-(4-chlorophenylthio)triethylamine (CPTA) as a specific inhibitor for the cyclization of lycopene. To avoid interference with photo-oxidation, the essential experiments were performed on seedlings grown in darkness. While the amount of total carotenoids decreased, we found accumulation of more 6-carotene than lycopene in darkness clearly showing that CPTA inhibits the lycopene beta-cyclase more effectively than the lycopene epsilon-cyclase. The CPTA treatment resulted in accumulation of non-photoactive protochlorophyllide a; the amount of photoactive protochlorophyllide and NADPH:protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase remained constant. Further, the level of Mg protophorphyrin and its monomethyl ester increased to an extent similar to that obtained by application of 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA). The perturbation of the ultrastructure of etioplast inner membranes, observed after CPTA-treatment, was not found after ALA-treatment; this excluded the accumulated tetrapyrroles as responsible for the perturbation. By contrast, the down-regulation of Lhcb and RbcS genes found after CPTA-treatment was compatible with the presumed role of Mg protophorphyrin as "plastid signal" for regulation of nuclear gene expression. Possible mechanisms for enhancement of tetrapyrrole accumulation by non-cyclic carotenoids are discussed.
Caspases are essential in animal programmed cell death both as initiator and executioner proteases. Plants do not have close caspase homologues, but several instances of caspase-like proteolytic activity have been demonstrated in connection with programmed cell death in plants. It was asked if caspase-like proteases are involved during development of the barley caryopsis. The presence of a caspase-6-like proteolytic activity that preferentially cleaved the sequence VEID was demonstrated. A range of protease inhibitors was tested and only caspase-specific inhibitors showed major inhibitory effects. The profile of VEIDase activity in developing starchy endosperm, embryo, and whole caryopsis was measured and showed a general trend of higher activity in young, rapidly developing tissues. The VEIDase activity was localized in vivo to vesicles, shown to be autophagosomes, in randomly distributed cells of the starchy endosperm. The VEIDase activity detected in barley caryopsis is similar to activities described previously in mammals, spruce, yeast, and thale cress. In mammals, spruce, and yeast, VEIDase activity has been shown to be positively correlated with the occurrence of programmed cell death. Several manifestations of programmed cell death exist in developing barley caryopsis, indicating a connection between VEIDase activity and developmental programmed cell death in barley.
Boron (B) is an essential micronutrient that affects plant growth at either deficient or toxic concentrations in soil. The aim of this work was to investigate the adaptation of barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants to toxic B levels and to increase our understanding of B toxicity tolerance mechanisms. We used a metabolomics approach to compare metabolite profiles in root and leaf tissues of an intolerant, commercial cultivar (cv Clipper) and a B-tolerant Algerian landrace (cv Sahara). After exposure to elevated B (200 and 1,000 microM), the number and amplitude of metabolite changes in roots was greater in Clipper than in Sahara. In contrast, leaf metabolites of both cultivars only responded following 1,000 microM treatment, at which B toxicity symptoms (necrosis) were visible. In addition, metabolite levels were dramatically altered in the tips of leaves of the sensitive cultivar Clipper after growth in 1,000 microM B compared to those of Sahara. This correlates with a gradual accumulation of B from leaf base to tip in B-intolerant cultivars. Overall, there were always greater differences between tissue types (roots and leaves) than between the two cultivars. This work has provided insights into metabolic differences of two genetically distinct barley cultivars and information about how they respond metabolically to increasing B levels.
The transcriptional regulator VIVIPA-ROUS1 (VP1) is composed of four functional domains that control different aspects of gene expression during seed development. The B2 domain is required for its role as a transcriptional activator, functioning at the site of transcription and/or for its transport into the nucleus. Previous work showed that the B2 domain was required for transactivation of the Em promoter. We demonstrate that VP1::GFP localizes to the nucleus of barley (Hordeum vulgare) aleurone cells, but when B2 is deleted, nuclear accumulation is lost. However, the B2 domain itself is not sufficient for nuclear localization of GFP::GUS. Using point mutagenesis on the putative NLS within B2, we show that the VP1::GFP still accumulates in the nucleus. Utilizing a comparative approach, through the alignment of B2 domains from various VP1/ABI3 proteins, oincluding the ABI3 orthologs from Physcomitrella patens, revealed the involvement of other conserved amino acids. Mutating VP1 at the conserved threonine on the N-terminal side of the putative NLS and at a conserved arginine-glutamine-arginine sequence on the C-terminal side prevented nuclear localization of VP1. A single amino acid change, from alanine to threonine, within this NLS found in the Arabidopsis abi3-7 mutant prevents transcription of AtEm1 and AtEm6 in vivo. We show that this same mutation in VP1 prevents transactivation of the Em-GUS reporter in barley aleurone but does not interfere with nuclear localization. Our data demonstrate that the B2 domain of VP1 is bifunctional in nature regulating both nuclear localization and transactivation.
Mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs) are metal chelators that are produced in graminaceous plants in response to iron (Fe) deficiency, but current evidence regarding secretion of MAs during zinc (Zn) deficiency is contradictory. Our studies using HPLC analysis showed that Zn deficiency induces the synthesis and secretion of MAs in barley plants. The levels of the HvNAS1, HvNAAT-A, HvNAAT-B, HvIDS2 and HvIDS3 transcripts, which encode the enzymes involved in the synthesis of MAs, were increased in Zn-deficient roots. Studies of the genes involved in the methionine cycle using microarray analysis showed that the transcripts of these genes were increased in both Zn-deficient and Fe-deficient barley roots, probably allowing the plant to meet its demand for methionine, a precursor in the synthesis of MAs. In addition, HvNAAT-B transcripts were detected in Zn-deficient shoots, but not in those that were deficient in Fe. Increased synthesis of MAs in Zn-deficient barley was not due to a deficiency of Fe, because Zn-deficient barley accumulated more Fe than did the control plants, ferritin transcripts were increased in Zn-deficient plants, and Zn deficiency promoted Fe transport from root to shoot. Moreover, analysis using the positron-emitting tracer imaging system (PETIS) confirmed that more 62Zn(II)-MAs than 62Zn2+ were absorbed by the roots of Zn-deficient barley plants. These data suggest that the increased biosynthesis and secretion of MAs arising from a shortage of Zn are not due to an induced Fe deficiency, and that secreted MAs are effective in absorbing Zn from the soil.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) plants of two commercial cultivars were transformed with sense and antisense constructs of a chitinase class II gene in order to develop a transformation system for this gene in barley. Transformation of embryos with the two antisense constructs resulted in ten regenerated plants, while no plants could be obtained using the sense construct. The presence of the inserted construct could be confirmed for six of the plants by PCR analysis. This system was used to study the role of class II chitinase in the regulation of mycorrhizal symbiosis. The colonization of two of the antisense transformants by the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices was investigated microscopically and by use of signature fatty acids. The arbuscular incidence increased in transformed barley, and one transformant supported higher extraradical mycelium biomass. It is concluded that antisense transformation of barley could be a useful tool in investigations on the symbiosis between barley and mycorrhizal fungi.
Nonspecific recognition of pathogen-derived general elicitors triggers the first line of plant basal defense, which in turn, preconditions the host towards resistance or susceptibility. To elucidate how basal defense responses influence the onset of Mla (mildew resistance locus a)-specified resistance, we performed a meta-analysis of GeneChip mRNA expression for 155 basal defense-related genes of barley (Hordeum vulgare) challenged with Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei, the causal agent of powdery mildew disease. In plants containing the fast-acting Mla1, Mla6, or Mla13 alleles, transcripts hyper-accumulated from 0 to 16 h after inoculation (hai) in both compatible and incompatible interactions. Suppression of basal defense-related transcripts was observed after 16 hai only in compatible interactions, whereas these transcripts were sustained or increased in incompatible interactions. By contrast, in plants containing wild-type and mutants of the delayed-acting Mla12 allele, an early hyper-induction of transcripts from 0 to 8 hai was observed, but the expression of many of these genes is markedly suppressed from 8 to 16 hai. These results suggest that the inhibition of basal defense facilitates the development of haustoria by the pathogen, consequently delaying the onset of host resistance responses. Thus, we hypothesize that the regulation of basal defense influences host-cell accessibility to the fungal pathogen and drives allelic diversification of gene-specific resistance phenotypes.
We isolated HvRAF (Hordeum vulgare root abundant factor), a cDNA encoding a novel ethylene response factor (ERF)-type transcription factor, from young seedlings of barley. In addition to the most highly conserved APETALA2/ERF DNA-binding domain, the encoded protein contained an N-terminal MCGGAIL signature sequence, a putative nuclear localization sequence, and a C-terminal acidic transcription activation domain containing a novel mammalian hemopexin domain signature-like sequence. Their homologous sequences were found in AAK92635 from rice and RAP2.2 from Arabidopsis; the ERF proteins most closely related to HvRAF, reflecting their functional importance. RNA blot analyses revealed that HvRAF transcripts were more abundant in roots than in leaves. HvRAF expression was induced in barley seedlings by various treatment regimes such as salicylic acid, ethephon, methyl jasmonate, cellulase, and methyl viologen. In a subcellular localization assay, the HvRAF-GFP fusion protein was targeted to the nucleus. The fusion protein of HvRAF with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain strongly activated transcription in yeast. Various deletion mutants of HvRAF indicated that the transactivating activity was localized to the acidic domain of the C-terminal region, and that the hemopexin domain signature-like sequence was important for the activity. Overexpression of the HvRAF gene in Arabidopsis plants induced the activation of various stress-responsive genes, including PDF1.2, JR3, PR1, PR5, KIN2, and GSH1. Furthermore, the transgenic Arabidopsis plants showed enhanced resistance to Ralstonia solanacearum strain GMI1000, as well as seed germination and root growth tolerance to high salinity. These results collectively indicate that HvRAF is a transcription factor that plays dual regulatory roles in response to biotic and abiotic stresses in plants.
Cyclotides are peptides from plants of the Rubiaceae and Violaceae families that have the unusual characteristic of a macrocylic backbone. They are further characterized by their incorporation of a cystine knot in which two disulfides, along with the intervening backbone residues, form a ring through which a third disulfide is threaded. The cyclotides have been found in every Violaceae species screened to date but are apparently present in only a few Rubiaceae species. The selective distribution reported so far raises questions about the evolution of the cyclotides within the plant kingdom. In this study, we use a combined bioinformatics and expression analysis approach to elucidate the evolution and distribution of the cyclotides in the plant kingdom and report the discovery of related sequences widespread in the Poaceae family, including crop plants such as rice (Oryza sativa), maize (Zea mays), and wheat (Triticum aestivum), which carry considerable economic and social importance. The presence of cyclotide-like sequences within these plants suggests that the cyclotides may be derived from an ancestral gene of great antiquity. Quantitative RT-PCR was used to show that two of the discovered cyclotide-like genes from rice and barley (Hordeum vulgare) have tissue-specific expression patterns.
Differential display was used to isolate cDNA clones showing differential expression in response to ABA, drought and cold in barley seedling shoots. One drought-regulated cDNA clone (DD12) was further analyzed and found to encode a branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase (HvBCAT-1). A genomic clone was isolated by probing the Morex BAC library with the cDNA clone DD12 and the structure of Hvbcat-1 was elucidated. The coding region is interrupted by six introns and contains a predicted mitochondrial transit peptide. Hvbcat1 was mapped to chromosome 4H. A comparison was made to rice and Arabidopsis genes to identify conserved structural patterns. Complementation of a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) double knockout strain revealed that HvBCAT-1 can function as the mitochondrial (catabolic) BCATs in vivo. Transcript levels of Hvbcat-1, increased in response to drought stress. As the first enzyme in the branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) catabolic pathway, HvBCAT-1 might have a role in the degradation of BCAA. Degradation of BCAA could serve as a detoxification mechanism that maintains the pool of free branched-chain amino acids at low and non toxic levels, under drought stress conditions.
Ability of barley ribosomal genes to cope with damage produced in vivo by the radiomimetic agent bleomycin was investigated. Repair kinetics of bleomycin-induced double-strand breaks in ribosomal and total genomic DNA was compared. Induction and repair of double-strand breaks in defined regions of the ribosomal genes was also analyzed. Preferential sensitivity of barley linker DNA towards bleomycin treatment in vivo was established. Relatively higher yield of initially induced double-strand breaks in genomic DNA in comparison to ribosomal DNA was also found. Fragments containing intergenic spacers of barley rRNA genes displayed higher sensitivity to bleomycin than the coding sequences. No heterogeneity in the repair of DSB between transcribed and non-transcribed regions of ribosomal genes was detected. Data indicate that DSB repair in barley rDNA, although more efficient than in genomic DNA, does not correlate with the activity of nucleolus organizer regions.
Stress and the nature of the transgene locus can affect transgene expression stability. These effects were studied in two, stably expressing, T6 populations of barley (Hordeum vulgare): bombardment-mediated, multi-copy lines with ubiquitin-driven bar and uidA or single-copy lines from Ds-mediated gene delivery with ubiquitin-driven bar alone. Imposing the environmental stresses, water and nutrient deprivation and heat shock, did not reproducibly affect transgene expression stability; however, high frequencies of heritable transcriptional gene silencing (TGS) occurred following in vitro culture after six generations of stable expression in the multi-copy subline, T3#30, but not in the other lines studied. T3#30 plants with complete TGS had epigenetic modification patterns exactly like those in an identical sibling subline, T3#31, which had significant reduction in transgene expression in the T3 generation and was completely transcriptionally silenced in the absence of imposed stresses in the T6 generation. Complete TGS in T3#30 plants correlated with methylation in the 5'UTR and intron of the ubi1 promoter complex and condensation of chromatin around the transgenes; DNA methylation likely occurred prior to chromatin condensation. Partial TGS in T3#30 also correlated with methylation of the ubi1 promoter complex, as occurred with complete TGS. T3#30 has a complex transgene structure with inverted repeat transgene fragments and a 3'-LTR from a barley retrotransposon, and therefore the transgene locus itself may affect its tendency to silence after in vitro culture and transgene silencing might result from host defense mechanisms activated by changes in plant developmental programming and/or stresses imposed during in vitro growth.
Proper embryo development is crucial for normal growth and development of barley. Numerous related aspects of this process--for example how the embryo establishes and sustains disease resistance for extended periods during dormancy--remain largely unknown. Here we report the results of microarray analyses of >22,000 genes, which together with measurements of jasmonic acid and salicylic acid during embryo development provide new information on the initiation in the developing barley embryo of at least two distinct types of developmental defense activation (DDA). Early DDA is characterized by the up-regulation of a specific set of genes around 20 days after flowering, including co-regulation of those for encoding 9-lipoxygenase and several oxylipin-generating enzymes, possibly leading to the formation of alpha-ketols. The same developmental phase includes an up-regulation of several defense genes, and indications of co-regulation of those for enzymes involved in the generation of phenylpropanoid phytoalexins. Late DDA is initiated prior to grain desiccation, around 37 days after flowering, with up-regulation of several genes encoding proteins with roles in antioxidant responses as well as a simultaneous up-regulation of several PR genes is notable. Throughout barley embryo development, there are no indications of an increased biosynthesis of either jasmonic acid or salicylic acid. Collectively, the results help explain how the proposed DDA enables protection of the developing barley embryo and grain for purposes of disease resistance.
In this study, the gene for a rice (Oryza sativa L.) 90 kDa heat shock protein (rHsp90, GenBank accession no. AB037681) was identified by screening rice root cDNAs that were up-regulated under carbonate (NaHCO(3)) stress using the method of differential display, and cloned. The open-reading-frame of rHsp90-cDNA was predicted to encode a protein containing 810 amino acids, which showed high similarity to proteins in Hordeum vulgare (accession no. X67960) and Catharathus roseus (accession no. L14594). Further studies showed that rHsp90 mRNA accumulated following exposure to several abiotic stresses, including salts (NaCl, NaHCO(3) and Na(2)CO(3)), desiccation (using polyethylene glycol), high pH (8.0 and 11.0) and high temperature (42 and 50 degrees C). Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) over-expressing rHsp90 exhibited greater tolerance to NaCl, Na(2)CO(3) and NaHCO(3) and tobacco seedlings over-expressing rHsp90 could tolerate salt concentrations as high as 200 mM NaCl, whereas untransformed control seedlings couldn't. These results suggest that rHsp90 plays an important role in multiple environmental stresses.
To clarify the molecular mechanism that regulates iron (Fe) acquisition in graminaceous plants, a time-course analysis of gene expression during Fe deficiency stress was conducted using a rice 22K oligo-DNA microarray. Twenty-one genes for proteins that function in gene regulation were induced by Fe deficiency. Of these genes, a putative basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor gene, named OsIRO2, was strongly expressed in both roots and shoots during Fe deficiency stress. The expression of OsIRO2 was induced exclusively by Fe deficiency, and not by deficiencies in other metals. Expression of the barley HvIRO2 gene, which is a homologue of OsIRO2, was also induced by Fe deficiency. An in silico search revealed that IRO2 is highly conserved among graminaceous plants, which include wheat, sorghum, and maize. The cyclic amplification and selection of targets (CASTing) technique revealed that OsIRO2 bound preferentially to the sequence 5'-ACCACGTGGTTTT-3', and the electrophoretic mobility shift assay revealed 5'-CACGTGG-3' as the core sequence for OsIRO2 binding. Sequences similar to the OsIRO2-binding sequence were found upstream of several genes that are involved in Fe acquisition, such as OsNAS1, OsNAS3, OsIRT1, OsFDH, OsAPT1, and IDS3. The core sequence of the OsIRO2-binding sequence occurred more frequently in the upstream regions of Fe deficiency-inducible genes than in the corresponding regions of non-inducible genes. These results suggest that IRO2 is involved in the regulation of gene expression under Fe-deficient conditions.
Polyamine oxidases (PAOs, EC 1.5.3.11) are key enzymes responsible for the terminal catabolism of polyamines in plants, bacteria and protozoa. In barley, two PAO isoforms (HvPAO1 and HvPAO2) have been previously analyzed as regards their tissue expression and subcellular localization. Only the major isoform HvPAO2 has been biochemically characterized up to now. In order to study the ear-specific expression of the HvPAO1 isoform in detail, RT-PCR analysis was performed in barley on the whole ear and on various ear tissues. Moreover, HvPAO1promoter::GUS transient expression was examined in barley developing caryopses at 30-day postfertilization. Results from these analyses have demonstrated that the HvPAO1 gene is specifically expressed in all the ear organs analyzed (i.e. basal lemma, rachis, awn, embryo-deprived caryopsis, embryo and sterile spikelets), at variance with the HvPAO2 gene, which is expressed at high levels in sterile spikelets and at very low levels in embryos. We purified HvPAO1 from barley immature caryopses and characterized its catalytic properties. Furthermore, we carried out in vitro synthesis of HvPAO1 protein in a cell-free translation system. The HvPAO1 enzymes purified from immature caryopses and in vitro synthesized showed the same catalytic properties, in particular, an optimum at pH 7.0 for Spd and Spm oxidation and comparable Km values for both substrates, i.e. 0.89x10(-5) M and 0.5x10(-5) M for Spd and Spm, respectively. It has been found that HvPAO1 enzyme activity significantly differs in substrate specificity and pH optimum when compared with the major isoform HvPAO2. As a whole, these data strongly suggest that, in barley, the two PAO genes evolved separately, after a duplication event, to code for two distinct tissue-specific enzymes, and they are likely to play different physiological roles.
An inhibitor analysis was used for studying the tetrapyrrole role in the regulation of the expression of the nuclear gene encoding a low-molecular-weight protein, a stress plastid light-inducible protein ELIP. 2,2'-Dipyridyl and norflurazon were used as inhibitors. Experiments with dipyridyl demonstrated that tetrapyrroles were involved in the regulation of Elip gene expression, inhibiting it by approximately 50%. Similar results were obtained when there was photodestruction of the chloroplasts, caused by a plant treatment with norflurazon. The results confirm the involvement of the chloroplasts in the regulation of the nuclear gene expression coding for plastid proteins. Tetrapyrroles are important contributors to this process.
The putative alpha-galactosidase gene HvSF11 of barley, previously shown to be expressed during dark induced senescence, is expressed in the growing/elongating zone of primary foliage leaves of barley. The amino acid sequence deduced from the full length HvSF11 cDNA contains a hydrophobic signal sequence at the N-terminus. Phylogenetic relationship of the HvSF11 encoded barley alpha-galactosidase to other alpha-galactosidases revealed high homology with the alpha-galactosidase encoded by the gene At5g08370 from Arabidopsis thaliana. We have isolated two independent heterozygous At5g08370 T-DNA insertion mutants from Arabidopsis thaliana, both of which have a higher number of rosette leaves with a curly surface leaf morphology and delayed flowering time in comparison to wildtype plants. Localization of the Arabidopsis alpha-galactosidase protein via GUS-tag revealed that the protein is associated with the cell wall. This result was confirmed by immunological detection of the orthologous barley protein in a protein fraction derived from cell walls of barley leaves. It is concluded that the alpha-galactosidase proteins from barley and Arabidopsis might fulfill an important role in leaf development by functioning in cell wall loosening and cell wall expansion.
Germin-like proteins (GLPs) have been shown to be encoded by multigene families in several plant species and a role of some subfamily members in defense against pathogen attack has been proposed based on gene regulation studies and transgenic approaches. We studied the function of six GLP subfamilies of barley (Hordeum vulgare) by selecting single mRNAs for gene expression studies as well as overexpression and gene-silencing experiments in barley and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Expression of all six subfamilies was high in very young seedlings, including roots. The expression pattern gradually changed from developmental to conditional with increasing plant age, whereby pathogen attack and exogenous hydrogen peroxide application were found to be the strongest signals for induction of several GLP subfamilies. Transcripts of four of five GLP subfamilies that are expressed in shoots were predominantly accumulating in the leaf epidermis. Transient overexpression of HvGER4 or HvGER5 as well as transient silencing by RNA interference of HvGER3 or HvGER5 protected barley epidermal cells from attack by the appropriate powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. Silencing of HvGER4 induced hypersusceptibility. Transient and stable expression of subfamily members revealed HvGER5 as a new extracellular superoxide dismutase, and protection by overexpression could be demonstrated to be dependent on superoxide dismutase activity of the encoded protein. Data suggest a complex interplay of HvGER proteins in fine regulation of basal resistance against B. graminis.
Fusarium verticillioides (teleomorph Gibberella moniliformis) and F. graminearum (teleomorph G. zeae) are well known to cause devastating diseases on cereal crops. Despite their importance, our understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in these host-pathogen interactions is limited. The FSR1 locus in F. verticillioides was identified by screening REMI mutants for loss of virulence in maize stalk rot inoculation studies. FSR1 encodes an 823-codon open reading frame interrupted by two introns. The Fsr1 protein shares 60% sequence identity with the Sordaria macrospora Pro11, a multimodular protein with four putative protein-protein binding domains (caveolin-binding domain, coiled-coil structure, calmodulin-binding motif, and seven-WD40 repeats), which plays a regulatory role in cell differentiation and ascocarp development. Our data demonstrate that FSR1 is essential for female fertility and virulence in F. verticillioides. Significantly, targeted disruption of the FSR1 ortholog in F. graminearum (FgFSR1) reduced virulence on barley and deterred perithecia formation. Cross-complementation experiments demonstrated that the gene function is conserved in the two Fusarium species. FSR1 is expressed constitutively, and we hypothesize that Fsr1 regulates virulence by acting as a scaffold for a signal transduction pathway. A survey of available genome databases indicates Fsr1 homologs are present in a number of filamentous fungi and animal systems but not in budding yeast or plants. A maximum likelihood analysis of this gene family reveals well-supported monophyletic clades associated with fungi and animals.
Rpg1 is a stem rust resistance gene that has protected barley from severe losses for over 60 years in the US and Canada. It confers resistance to many, but not all, pathotypes of the stem rust fungus Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici. A fast neutron induced deletion mutant, showing susceptibility to stem rust pathotype Pgt-MCC, was identified in barley cv. Morex, which carries Rpg1. Genetic and Rpg1 mRNA and protein expression level analyses showed that the mutation was a suppressor of Rpg1 and was designated Rpr1 (Required for P. graminis resistance). Genome-wide expression profiling, using the Affymetrix Barley1 GeneChip containing approximately 22,840 probe sets, was conducted with Morex and the rpr1 mutant. Of the genes represented on the Barley1 microarray, 20 were up-regulated and 33 were down-regulated by greater than twofold in the mutant, while the Rpg1 mRNA level remained constant. Among the highly down-regulated genes (greater than fourfold), genomic PCR, RT-PCR and Southern analyses identified that three genes (Contig4901_s_at, HU03D17U_s_at, and Contig7061_s_at), were deleted in the rpr1 mutant. These three genes mapped to chromosome 4(4H) bin 5 and co-segregated with the rpr1-mediated susceptible phenotype. The loss of resistance was presumed to be due to a mutation in one or more of these genes. However, the possibility exists that there are other genes within the deletions, which are not represented on the Barley1 GeneChip. The Rpr1 gene was not required for Rpg5- and rpg4-mediated stem rust resistance, indicating that it shows specificity to the Rpg1-mediated resistance pathway.
We report on a novel transformation procedure for barley by Agrobacterium infection of in vitro cultured ovules. Ovules of the cultivar Golden Promise were isolated a few hours after pollination and infected with the Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL0 carrying the binary vector pVec8-GFP. The vector harboured a hygromycin resistance gene and the green fluorescence protein (GFP) gene. GFP-expressing embryos were isolated from the ovules, regenerated to plants and investigated by Southern blot analysis. Transformation frequencies amounted to 3.1% with hygromycin selection and 0.8% without selection. Mendelian inheritance and stable expression of the GFP gene was confirmed in 18 independent lines over two generations. We conclude that the described technique allows for the rapid and direct generation of high quality transgenic plants.
Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, invades plant tissue due to the action of specialized infection structures called appressoria, which are used to breach the leaf cuticle and allow development of intracellular, infectious hyphae. In this report we demonstrate that peroxisomal carnitine acetyl transferase (CAT) activity is necessary for appressorium function, and in particular, for the elaboration of primary penetration hyphae. The major CAT activity in M. grisea is encoded by the PTH2 gene, which shows elevated expression in response to acetate and lipid, and is regulated by the cyclic AMP response pathway. Furthermore, a Pth2-GFP fusion protein colocalizes with a peroxisomal marker protein. Targeted deletion of PTH2, generated mutants that were completely non-pathogenic, lacked CAT activity and were unable to utilize a range of lipid substrates. The impairment of appressorium function in Deltapth2 was associated with a delay in lipid reserve mobilization from germ tubes into developing infection cells, and abnormal chitin distribution in infection structures. Addition of glucose to Deltapth2 mutants partially restored the ability to cause rice blast disease and lipid reserve mobilization. Taken together, our findings provide evidence that Pth2 plays a role in the generation of acetyl CoA pools necessary for appressorium function and rapid elaboration of penetration hyphae during host infection.
We analyzed the effects of ABA, auxin, and gibberellin on the expression of two genes (HVP1 and HVP10) for vacuolar H(+)-inorganic pyrophosphatase (EC 3.6.1.1) and one (HvVHA-A) for the catalytic subunit (subunit A) of vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (EC 3.6.1.3) by quantification of the transcript levels, to identify the hormones responsible for regulating the expression of these genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) in response to environmental changes such as salt stress. ABA markedly induced the expression of HVP1 and slightly increased the expression of HVP10 and HvVHA-A. In contrast, 2,4-D only increased the expression of HVP1, and GA(3) had no significant effects on any gene. The maximum level of HVP1 transcripts in response to these hormones was also much higher than the levels of HVP10 and HvVHA-A transcripts. In addition, we also analyzed the expression of one gene (HvNHX1) for vacuolar Na(+)/H(+) antiporter, and HvNHX1 expression changed in a pattern similar to that of the HVP1 expression. Furthermore, treatment with ABA and 2,4-D increased Na(+)/H(+) antiport activity and proton-translocating activities by H(+)-PPase and H(+)-ATPase in tonoplast vesicles, and treatment with ABA also increased the amount of V-PPase protein of tonoplast vesicles. These results suggest that the hormones ABA and 2,4-D regulate the expression of the H(+)-pump and Na(+)/H(+) antiporter genes and are thus important effectors that regulate the expression of HVP1and HvNHX1.
To investigate whether the regulation of abscisic acid (ABA) content was related to germinability during grain development, two cDNAs for 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (HvNCED1 and HvNCED2) and one cDNA for ABA 8'-hydroxylase (HvCYP707A1), which are enzymes thought to catalyse key regulatory steps in ABA biosynthesis and catabolism, respectively, were cloned from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Expression and ABA-quantification analysis in embryo revealed that HvNCED2 is responsible for a significant increase in ABA levels during the early to middle stages of grain development, and HvCYP707A1 is responsible for a rapid decrease in ABA level thereafter. The change in the embryonic ABA content of imbibing grains following dormancy release is likely to reflect changes in the expression patterns of HvNCEDs and HvCYP707A1. A major change between dormant and after-ripened grains occurred in HvCYP707A1; the increased expression of HvCYP707A1 in response to imbibition, followed by a rapid ABA decrease and a high germination percentage, was observed in the after-ripened grains, but not in the dormant grains. Under field conditions, HvNCED2 showed the same expression level and pattern during grain development in 2002, 2003, and 2004, indicating that HvNCED2 expression is regulated in a growth-dependent manner in the grains. By contrast, HvNCED1 and HvCYP707A1 showed a different expression pattern in each year, indicating that the expression of these genes is affected by environmental conditions during grain development. The varied expression levels of these genes during grain development and imbibition, which would have effects on the activity of ABA biosynthesis and catabolism, might be reflected, in part, in the germinability in field-grown barley.
Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh) attack disrupted stomatal behaviour, and hence leaf water conductance (g(l)), in barley genotypes Pallas and Risø-S (susceptible), P01 (with Mla1 conditioning a hypersensitive response; HR), and P22 and Risø-R (with mlo5 conditioning papilla-based penetration resistance). Inoculation caused some stomatal closure well before the fungus attempted infection. Coinciding with epidermal cell penetration, stomatal opening in light was also impeded, although stomata of susceptible and mlo5 lines remained largely able to close in darkness. Following infection, in susceptible lines stomata closed in darkness but opening in light was persistently impeded. In Risø-R, stomata recovered nearly complete function by approximately 30 h after inoculation, i.e. after penetration resistance was accomplished. In P01, stomata became locked open and unable to close in darkness shortly after epidermal cells died due to HR. In the P22 background, mlo5 penetration resistance was often followed by consequential death of attacked cells, and here too stomata became locked open, but not until approximately 24 h after pathogen attack had ceased. The influence of epidermal cell death was localized, and only affected stomata within one or two cells distance. These stomata were unable to close not only in darkness but also after application of abscisic acid and in wilted leaves suffering drought. Thus, resistance to Bgh based on HR or associated with cell death may have previously unsuspected negative consequences for the physiological health of apparently 'disease-free' plants. The results are discussed in relation to the control of stomatal aperture in barley by epidermal cells.
We describe the heterologous expression in Escherichia coli of the proenzyme precursor to EP-B2, a cysteine endoprotease from germinating barley seeds. High yields (50 mg/l) of recombinant proEP-B2 were obtained from E. coli inclusion bodies in shake flask cultures following purification and refolding. The zymogen was rapidly autoactivated to its mature form under acidic conditions at a rate independent of proEP-B2 concentration, suggesting a cis mechanism of autoactivation. Mature EP-B2 was stable and active over a wide pH range and efficiently hydrolyzed a recombinant wheat gluten protein, alpha2-gliadin, at sequences with known immunotoxicity in celiac sprue patients. The X-ray crystal structure of mature EP-B2 bound to leupeptin was solved to 2.2 A resolution and provided atomic insights into the observed subsite specificity of the endoprotease. Our findings suggest that orally administered proEP-B2 may be especially well suited for treatment of celiac sprue.
Gene expression patterns covering over 10,000 seed-expressed sequences were analyzed by macroarray technology in maternal tissue (mainly pericarp) and filial endosperm and embryo during barley seed development from anthesis until late maturation. Defined sets of genes showing distinct expression patterns characterized both tissue type and major developmental phases. The analysis focused on regulatory networks involved in programmed cell death (PCD) and abscisic acid (ABA)-mediated maturation. These processes were similar in the different tissues, but typically involved the expression of alternative members of a common gene family. The analysis of co-expressed gene sets and the identification of cis regulatory elements in orthologous rice gene 'promoter' regions suggest that PCD in the pericarp is mediated by distinct classes of proteases and is under the hormonal control of both jasmonic acid (JA) and ethylene via ethylene-responsive element binding protein (EREBP) transcription factors (TFs). On the other hand, PCD in endosperm apparently involves only the ethylene pathway, but employs distinct gene family members from those active in the pericarp, and a different set of proteases and TFs. JA biosynthetic genes are hardly activated. Accordingly, JA levels are high in the pericarp but low in the endosperm during middle and late developmental stages. Similarly, genes acting in the deduced ABA biosynthetic pathway and signaling network differ between endosperm and embryo. ABA in the endosperm appears to exert an influence over storage product synthesis via SNF1 kinase. In the embryo, ABA seems to influence the acquisition of desiccation tolerance via ABA response element binding factors, but the data also suggest the existence of an ABA-independent but interactive pathway acting via the dehydration-responsive element binding (DREB) 2A TF.
Cereal seed development depends on the intimate interaction of filial and maternal tissues, ensuring nourishment of the new generation. The gene jekyll, which was identified in barley (Hordeum vulgare), is preferentially expressed in the nurse tissues. JEKYLL shares partial similarity with the scorpion Cn4 toxin and is toxic when ectopically expressed in Escherichia coli and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum). In barley, jekyll is upregulated in cells destined for autolysis. The gene generates a gradient of expression in the nucellar projection, which mediates the maternal-filial interaction during seed filling. Downregulation of jekyll by the RNA interference technique in barley decelerates autolysis and cell differentiation within the nurse tissues. Flower development and seed filling are thereby extended, and the nucellar projection no longer functions as the main transport route for assimilates. A slowing down in the proliferation of endosperm nuclei and a severely impaired ability to accumulate starch in the endosperm leads to the formation of irregular and small-sized seeds at maturity. Overall, JEKYLL plays a decisive role in the differentiation of the nucellar projection and drives the programmed cell death necessary for its proper function. We further suggest that cell autolysis during the differentiation of the nucellar projection allows the optimal provision of basic nutrients for biosynthesis in endosperm and embryo.
The SHAQKYF R1MYB transcription factor (TF) HvMYBS3 from barley is an activator of gene expression both during endosperm development and in aleurone cells upon seed germination. Its mRNA was detected as early as 10 days after flowering in developing barley endosperm, with a peak at 18 days, and in aleurone cells at 8 h after water imbibition, as shown by Northern blot and in situ hybridization analyses. The HvMYBS3 protein expressed in bacteria binds to oligonucleotides containing a GATA core derived from the promoters of: (i) the developing endosperm gene Itr1 (5'-GATAAGATA-3') encoding trypsin inhibitor BTI-CMe, and (ii) the post-germinating aleurone gene Amy6.4 (5'-TATCCAC-3'/5'-GTGGATA-3') encoding a high-pI alpha-amylase. Transient expression experiments in co-bombarded developing endosperms and in barley aleurone layers demonstrated that HvMYBS3 trans-activated transcription both from Itr1 and Amy6.4 promoters, in contrast with a previously reported seed-expressed R1MYB, HvMCB1, which was an activator of Itr1 and a transcriptional repressor of the Amy6.4 gene. In the yeast three-hybrid system, the HvMYBS3 protein formed a ternary complex with BPBF and BLZ2, two important seed TFs. However, no binary interactions could be detected between HvMYBS3 and BLZ2 or between HvMYBS3 and BPBF.
Subfunctionalization is the process by which a pair of duplicated genes, or paralogs, experiences a reduction of individual expression patterns or function while still reproducing the complete expression pattern and function of the ancestral gene. Two germin-like protein (GLP)-encoding genes, GerB and GerF, are paralogs that belong to a small gene family in barley (Hordeum vulgare). Both genes share high nucleotide sequence similarity in coding and noncoding regions and encode identical apoplastic proteins. The use of RNA gel blots, coupled with single-stranded conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis of RT-PCR products, elucidated the developmental and tissue-specific expression patterns of each gene. Individual expression patterns provided evidence of both overlapping redundancy and early subfunctionalization. GerB is predominantly expressed in developing shoots, while GerF is predominantly expressed in seedling roots, developing spikes, and pericarp/testa. GerF promoter deletion studies located a region (-356/-97) responsible for high promoter activity and showed the ability of GerB and GerF upstream regions to drive gfp expression in coleoptiles, epicarps, and lemma/palea of developing spikes. The observed expression patterns are consistent with proposed roles in plant development and defense mechanisms for this gene family. These roles may explain why redundancy has been selectively maintained in this duplicate gene pair.
Seed plants with compound leaves constitute a polyphyletic group, but studies of diverse taxa show that genes of the class 1 KNOTTED-LIKE HOMEOBOX (KNOX1) family are often involved in compound leaf development. This suggests that knox1 genes have been recruited on multiple occasions during angiosperm evolution (Bharathan et al. in Science 296:1858-1860, 2002). In agreement with this, we demonstrate that the simple leaf of dandelion (Taraxacum officinale Web.) can be converted into a compound leaf by the constitutive expression of heterologous knox1 genes. Dandelion is a rosette plant of the family Asteraceae, characterised by simple leaves with deeply lobed margins and endogenous knox1 gene expression. Transgenic dandelion plants constitutively expressing the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) hooded gene (bkn3, barley knox3) or the related bkn1 gene, developed compound leaves featuring epiphyllous rosettes. We discuss these results in the context of two current models of compound leaf formation.
Root hairs are specialized epidermal cells that play a role in the uptake of water and nutrients from the rhizosphere and serve as a site of interaction with soil microorganisms. The process of root hair formation is well characterized in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana); however, there is a very little information about the genetic and molecular basis of root hair development in monocots. Here, we report on isolation and cloning of the beta-expansin (EXPB) gene HvEXPB1, tightly related to root hair initiation in barley (Hordeum vulgare). Using root transcriptome differentiation in the wild-type/root-hairless mutant system, a cDNA fragment present in roots of wild-type plants only was identified. After cloning of full-length cDNA and genomic sequences flanking the identified fragment, the subsequent bioinformatics analyses revealed homology of the protein coded by the identified gene to the EXPB family. Reverse transcription-PCR showed that expression of HvEXPB1 cosegregated with the root hair phenotype in F2 progeny of the cross between the hairless mutant rhl1.a and the wild-type Karat parent variety. Expression of the HvEXPB1 gene was root specific; it was expressed in roots of wild-type forms, but not in coleoptiles, leaves, tillers, and spikes. The identified gene was active in roots of two other analyzed root hair mutants: rhp1.a developing root hair primordia only and rhs1.a with very short root hairs. Contrary to this, a complete lack of HvEXPB1 expression was observed in roots of the spontaneous root-hairless mutant bald root barley. All these observations suggest a role of the HvEXPB1 gene in the process of root hair formation in barley.
Iron acquisition of graminaceous plants is characterized by the synthesis and secretion of the iron-chelating phytosiderophore, mugineic acid (MA), and by a specific uptake system for iron(III)-phytosiderophore complexes. We identified a gene specifically encoding an iron-phytosiderophore transporter (HvYS1) in barley, which is the most tolerant species to iron deficiency among graminaceous plants. HvYS1 was predicted to encode a polypeptide of 678 amino acids and to have 72.7% identity with ZmYS1, a first protein identified as an iron(III)-phytosiderophore transporter in maize. Real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that the HvYS1 gene was mainly expressed in the roots, and its expression was enhanced under iron deficiency. In situ hybridization analysis of iron-deficient barley roots revealed that the mRNA of HvYS1 was localized in epidermal root cells. Furthermore, immunohistological staining with anti-HvYS1 polyclonal antibody showed the same localization as the mRNA. HvYS1 functionally complemented yeast strains defective in iron uptake on media containing iron(III)-MA, but not iron-nicotianamine (NA). Expression of HvYS1 in Xenopus oocytes showed strict specificity for both metals and ligands: HvYS1 transports only iron(III) chelated with phytosiderophore. The localization and substrate specificity of HvYS1 is different from those of ZmYS1, indicating that HvYS1 is a specific transporter for iron(III)-phytosiderophore involved in primary iron acquisition from soil in barley roots.
The aim of the present study was to examine the relation between Al accumulation in root tissues, root growth inhibition, root water content, cell viability and expression of oxidative and drought stress-related genes in barley roots growing on the filter paper. Al-induced root growth inhibition correlated with Al uptake and cell death. Water content of Al-treated root represented only half of the control one. The expression of the dehydrin gene dhn4, which is a marker for drought stress in plant tissues, was strongly induced during Al stress. Al treatment also induced expression of oxidative stress-related genes such as glutathione peroxidase (gpx), pathogen-related peroxidase (prx8), glutathione reductase (gr) and dehydroascorbate reductase (dhar). The present results suggest correlation between Al uptake, Al-induced drought stress, oxidative stress, cell death and root growth inhibition.
The transcriptional activity of the sorghum sbeIIb gene, encoding starch branching enzyme IIb, is seed specific, with expression in both the endosperm and the embryo. In comparison, expression of barley sbeIIb is confined to the endosperm, whereas that of barley sbeIIa occurs in endosperm, embryonic and vegetative tissues. It has been suggested that the second intron of barley sbeIIb may be instrumental in conferring endosperm-specific expression. Therefore, to further investigate the regulatory mechanisms of barley and sorghum sbe, we examined the tissue-specific activity of the sorghum sbe promoter in transient assays of green fluorescent protein (gfp) reporter constructs. We found that, when linked to the barley sbeIIb second intron, the sorghum sbeIIb promoter could not drive gfp transcription in sorghum or barley embryonic cells. Similar results were obtained for the barley sbeIIa promoter. Database searches showed that sequences homologous to the barley sbeIIb intron also exist in introns and flanking regions of some other grass genes. Deletion mutagenesis of the sorghum sbeIIb promoter identified the minimal promoters required for high- and low-level expression, respectively, but did not reveal any putative promoter elements crucial for expression. A sequence with similarity to the SURE element, implicated in sugar signaling, was located in the distal promoter region of sorghum sbeIIb, upstream of the minimal promoters. SURE elements are present in the proximal promoter regions of the sugar-regulated barley iso1 gene, and barley sbeIIb. In keeping in line with these observations, RNA-gel blot analyses demonstrated that expression of barley sbeIIb was sugar inducible, whereas that of sorghum sbeIIb was not.
The effects of photodestruction of chloroplasts in norflurazon-treated barley seedlings on expression of nuclear genes Elip and Hsp32 encoding light and heat stress proteins of barley chloroplasts and also of the Lhcb1 and RbcS genes of photosynthesis proteins were studied. The genes of the photosynthesis proteins were not transcribed upon the photodestruction of chloroplasts. However, transcription of the stress protein genes continued, and the transcription of the heat stress protein gene remained virtually at the control level, whereas the light stress protein gene transcription was markedly (by 30-50%) decreased, and this suggests chloroplast control of the Elip gene transcription. Disorders in the processing and a partial disturbance in the import of precursors of Hsp32 and Elip proteins into the plastids of the norflurazon-treated seedlings were shown. Data on protease analysis indicates that photodestruction of chloroplasts is associated with accumulation of stress protein precursors in the plastid envelope.
Fusarium head blight (FHB) of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is caused by Fusarium graminearum. FHB causes yield losses and reduction in grain quality primarily due to the accumulation of trichothecene mycotoxins such as deoxynivalenol (DON). To develop an understanding of the barley-F. graminearum interaction, we examined the relationship among the infection process, DON concentration, and host transcript accumulation for 22,439 genes in spikes from the susceptible cv. Morex from 0 to 144 h after F. graminearum and water control inoculation. We detected 467 differentially accumulating barley gene transcripts in the F. graminearum-treated plants compared with the water control-treated plants. Functional annotation of the transcripts revealed a variety of infection-induced host genes encoding defense response proteins, oxidative burst-associated enzymes, and phenylpropanoid pathway enzymes. Of particular interest was the induction of transcripts encoding potential trichothecene catabolic enzymes and transporters, and the induction of the tryptophan biosynthetic and catabolic pathway enzymes. Our results define three stages of E graminearum infection. An early stage, between 0 and 48 h after inoculation (hai), exhibited limited fungal development, low DON accumulation, and little change in the transcript accumulation status. An intermediate stage, between 48 and 96 hai, showed increased fungal development and active infection, higher DON accumulation, and increased transcript accumulation. A majority of the host gene transcripts were detected by 72 hai, suggesting that this is an important timepoint for the barley-F. graminearum interaction. A late stage also identified between 96 and 144 hai, exhibiting development of hyphal mats, high DON accumulation, and a reduction in the number of transcripts observed. Our study provides a baseline and hypothesis-generating dataset in barley during F. graminearum infection and in other grasses during pathogen infection.
By comparing cDNA populations derived from chromium-stressed primary leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) with controls, differentially expressed cDNA fragments could be identified. The deduced amino acid sequence of one of these cDNAs [named 'C2 domain 1' (HvC2d1)] exhibits a motif that is similar to the known C2 domain and a nuclear localization signal (NLS). Expression of this member of a novel class of plant C2 domain-like proteins was studied using real-time PCR, and subcellular localization was investigated using green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion constructs. Calcium binding was analysed using a (45)Ca(2+) overlay assay. HvC2d1 was transiently induced after exposure to different heavy metals and its mRNA accumulated during the phase of leaf senescence. HvC2d1 expression responded to changes in calcium levels caused by the calcium ionophore A23187 and to treatment with methylviologen resulting in the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Using overexpressed and purified HvC2d1, the binding of calcium could be confirmed. Chimeric HvC2d1-GFP protein was localized in onion epidermal cells at the plasma membrane, cytoplasm and the nucleus. After addition of calcium ionophore A23187 green fluorescence was only visible in the nucleus. The data suggest a calcium-dependent translocation of HvC2d1 to the nucleus. A possible role of HvC2d1 in stress- and development-dependent signalling in the nucleus is discussed.
We describe an efficient inducible system to regulate gene expression in plants based on quorum-sensing components found in Gram-negative bacteria such as Agrobacterium tumefaciens. These bacteria monitor their own population density by utilizing members of the N-acyl homoserine lactone family as inducers and a transcriptional activator as its receptor. In our study, we utilize the components from A. tumefaciens (i.e. 3-oxooctanyl-l-homoserine lactone [OOHL]) synthesized by the TraI protein and its receptor, TraR. When OOHL binds to TraR, it recognizes its specific cis-element, the tra box. We translationally fused the eukaryotic VP16 activation domain to the N terminus of TraR. In the presence of OOHL, the chimeric VP16:TraR transcriptional regulator induces reporter gene expression in moss (Physcomitrella patens), barley (Hordeum vulgare), and carrot (Daucus carota) cells, as well as in transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings. The inducible system shows a low level of reporter gene expression in the absence of the inducer. Foliar application and a floating-leaf assay in the presence of the inducer shows a 30- and 200-fold induction, respectively. Induction by foliar application of the inducer to whole seedlings is achieved within 8 h. The VP16:TraR activator also shows specificity for binding to its cognate inducer, OOHL. Based on microarray analyses, endogenous gene expression is not significantly affected due to overexpression of the TraR protein or presence of OOHL in either wild-type or lactone-inducible transgenic plants.
Previously, we have shown that barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants carrying a mutation preventing chloroplast development are completely frost susceptible as well as impaired in the expression of several cold-regulated genes. Here we investigated the transcriptome of barley albina and xantha mutants and the corresponding wild type to assess the effect of the chloroplast on expression of cold-regulated genes. First, by comparing control wild type against cold-hardened wild-type plants 2,735 probe sets with statistically significant changes (P = 0.05; > or = 2-fold change) were identified. Expression of these wild-type cold-regulated genes was then analyzed in control and cold-hardened mutants. Only about 11% of the genes cold regulated in wild type were regulated to a similar extent in all genotypes (chloroplast-independent cold-regulated genes); this class includes many genes known to be under C-repeat binding factor control. C-repeat binding factor genes were also equally induced in mutants and wild-type plants. About 67% of wild-type cold-regulated genes were not regulated by cold in any mutant (chloroplast-dependent cold-regulated genes). We found that the lack of cold regulation in the mutants is due to the presence of signaling pathway(s) normally cold activated in wild type but constitutively active in the mutants, as well as to the disruption of low-temperature signaling pathway(s) due to the absence of active chloroplasts. We also found that photooxidative stress signaling pathway is constitutively active in the mutants. These results demonstrate the major role of the chloroplast in the control of the molecular adaptation to cold.
A double-gene construct with one chitinase and one beta-1,3-glucanase gene from barley, both driven by enhanced 35S promoters, was transformed into oilseed rape. From six primary transformants expressing both transgenes 10 doubled haploid lines were produced and studied for five generations. The number of inserted copies for both the genes was determined by Southern blotting and real-time PCR with full agreement between the two methods. When copy numbers were analysed in different generations, discrepancies were found, indicating that at least part of the inserted sequences were lost in one of the alleles of some doubled haploids. Chitinase and beta-1,3-glucanase expression was analysed by Western blotting in all five doubled haploid generations. Despite that both the genes were present on the same T-DNA and directed by the same promoter their expression pattern between generations was different. The beta-1,3-glucanase was expressed at high and stable levels in all generations, while the chitinase displayed lower expression that varied between generations. The transgenic plants did not show any major impact on fungal resistance when assayed in greenhouse, although purified beta-1,3-glucanase and chitinase caused retardment of fungal growth in vitro.
Assaying relative and absolute levels of gene expression in a diverse series of tissues is a central step in the process of characterizing gene function and a necessary component of almost all publications describing individual genes or gene family members. However, throughout the literature, such studies lack consistency in genotype, tissues analyzed, and growth conditions applied, and, as a result, the body of information that is currently assembled is fragmented and difficult to compare between different studies. The development of a comprehensive platform for assaying gene expression that is available to the entire research community provides a major opportunity to assess whole biological systems in a single experiment. It also integrates detailed knowledge and information on individual genes into a unified framework that provides both context and resource to explore their contributions in a broader biological system. We have established a data set that describes the expression of 21,439 barley genes in 15 tissues sampled throughout the development of the barley cv. Morex grown under highly controlled conditions. Rather than attempting to address a specific biological question, our experiment was designed to provide a reference gene expression data set for barley researchers; a gene expression atlas and a comparative data set for those investigating genes or regulatory networks in other plant species. In this paper we describe the tissues sampled and their transcriptomes, and provide summary information on genes that are either specifically expressed in certain tissues or show correlated expression patterns across all 15 tissue samples. Using specific examples and an online tutorial, we describe how the data set can be interrogated for patterns and levels of barley gene expression and how the resulting information can be used to generate and/or test specific biological hypotheses.
Different formae speciales of the grass powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis undergo basic-compatible or basic-incompatible (nonhost) interactions with barley. Background resistance in compatible interactions and nonhost resistance require common genetic and mechanistic elements of plant defense. To build resources for differential screening for genes that potentially distinguish a compatible from an incompatible interaction on the level of differential gene expression of the plant, we constructed eight dedicated cDNA libraries, established 13.000 expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences and designed DNA macroarrays. Using macroarrays based on cDNAs derived from epidermal peels of plants pretreated with the chemical resistance activating compound acibenzolar-S-methyl, we compared the expression of barley gene transcripts in the early host interaction with B. graminis f.sp. hordei or the nonhost pathogen B. graminis f.sp. tritici, respectively. We identified 102 spots corresponding to 94 genes on the macroarray that gave significant B. graminis-responsive signals at 12 and/or 24 h after inoculation. In independent expression analyses, we confirmed the macroarray results for 11 selected genes. Although the majority of genes showed a similar expression profile in compatible versus incompatible interactions, about 30 of the 94 genes were expressed on slightly different levels in compatible versus incompatible interactions.
Recently the genome sequences of several filamentous fungi have become available, providing the opportunity for large-scale functional analysis including genome-wide expression analysis. We report the design and validation of the first Affymetrix GeneChip microarray based on the entire genome of a filamentous fungus, the ascomycetous plant pathogen Fusarium graminearum. To maximize the likelihood of representing all putative genes (approximately 14,000) on the array, two distinct sets of automatically predicted gene calls were used and integrated into the online F. graminearum Genome DataBase. From these gene sets, a subset of calls was manually annotated and a non-redundant extract of all calls together with additional EST sequences and controls were submitted for GeneChip design. Experiments were conducted to test the performance of the F. graminearum GeneChip. Hybridization experiments using genomic DNA demonstrated the usefulness of the array for experimentation with F. graminearum and at least four additional pathogenic Fusarium species. Differential transcript accumulation was detected using the F. graminearum GeneChip with treatments derived from the fungus grown in culture under three nutritional regimes and in comparison with fungal growth in infected barley. The ability to detect fungal genes in planta is surprisingly sensitive even without efforts to enrich for fungal transcripts. The Plant Expression Database (PLEXdb, http://www.plexdb.org) will be used as a public repository for raw and normalized expression data from the F. graminearum GeneChip. The F. graminearum GeneChip will help to accelerate exploration of the pathogen-host pathways that may involve interactions between pathogenicity genes in the fungus and disease response in the plant.
We report a large-scale study on the frequency of transgene and T-DNA backbone integration following Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of immature barley embryos. One hundred and ninety-one plant lines were regenerated after hygromycin selection and visual selection for GFP expression at the callus stage. Southern blotting performed on a subset of 53 lines that were PCR positive for the GFP gene documented the integration of the GFP gene in 27 of the lines. Twenty-three of these lines expressed GFP in T(1) plantlets. Southern blotting with a vector backbone probe revealed that 13 of the 27 lines possessed one or more vector backbone fragments illustrating the regular occurrence of vector backbone integration following Agrobacterium infection of barley immature embryos.
Recent results concerning the short-term growth response to salinity of the developing barley leaf are reviewed. Plants were grown hydroponically and the growth response of leaf 3 was studied between 10 min and 5 d following addition of 100 mM NaCl to the root medium. The aim of the experiments was to relate changes in variables that are likely to affect cell elongation to changes in leaf growth. Changes in hormone content (ABA, cytokinins), water and solute relationships (osmolality, turgor, water potential, solute concentrations), gene expression (water channel), cuticle deposition, membrane potential, and transpiration were followed, while leaf elongation velocity was monitored. Leaf elongation decreased close to zero within seconds following addition of NaCl. Between 20 and 30 min after exposure to salt, elongation velocity recovered rather abruptly, to about 46% of the pre-stress level, and remained at the reduced rate for the following 5 d, when it reached about 70% of the level in non-stressed plants. Biophysical and physiological analyses led to three major conclusions. (i) The immediate reduction and sudden recovery in elongation velocity is due to changes in the water potential gradient between leaf xylem and peripheral elongating cells. Changes in transpiration, ABA and cytokinin content, water channel expression, and plasma membrane potential are involved in this response. (ii) Significant solute accumulation, which aids growth recovery, is detectable from 1 h onwards; growing and non-growing leaf regions and mesophyll and epidermis differ in their solute response. (iii) Cuticular wax density is not affected by short-term exposure to salt; transpirational changes are due to stomatal control.
The expressed sequence tag M6G10 was originally isolated from a screening for differentially expressed transcripts during the reproductive stage of the white truffle Tuber borchii. mRNA levels for M6G10 increased dramatically during fruiting body maturation compared to the vegetative mycelial stage. Bioinformatics tools, phylogenetic analysis and expression studies were used to support the hypothesis that this sequence, named TbDHN1, is the first dehydrin (DHN)-like coding gene isolated in fungi. Homologs of this gene, all defined as "coding for hypothetical proteins" in public databases, were exclusively found in ascomycetous fungi and in plants. Although complete (or almost complete) fungal genomes and EST collections of some Basidiomycota and Glomeromycota are already available, DHN-like proteins appear to be represented only in Ascomycota. A new and previously uncharacterized conserved signature pattern was identified and proposed to Uniprot database as the main distinguishing feature of this new group of DHNs. Expression studies provide experimental evidence of a transcript induction of TbDHN1 during cellular dehydration. Expression pattern and sequence similarities to known plant DHNs indicate that TbDHN1 is the first characterized DHN-like protein in fungi. The high similarity of TbDHN1 with homolog coding sequences implies the existence of a novel fungal/plant group of LEA Class II proteins characterized by a previously undescribed signature pattern.
We have investigated the relationship between seed dormancy and abscisic acid (ABA) metabolism in the monocot barley and the dicot Arabidopsis. Whether dormant (D) or non-dormant (ND), dry seed of Arabidopsis and embryos of dry barley grains all had similarly high levels of ABA. ABA levels decreased rapidly upon imbibition, although they fell further in ND than in D. Gene expression profiles were determined in Arabidopsis for key ABA biosynthetic [the 9-cis epoxycarotenoid dioxygenasegene family] and ABA catabolic [the ABA 8'-hydroxylase gene family (CYP707A)] genes. Of these, only the AtCYP707A2 gene was differentially expressed between D and ND seeds, being expressed to a much higher level in ND seeds. Similarly, a barley CYP707 homologue, (HvABA8'OH-1) was expressed to a much higher level in embryos from ND grains than from D grains. Consistent with this, in situ hybridization studies showed HvABA8'OH-1 mRNA expression was stronger in embryos from ND grains. Surprisingly, the signal was confined in the coleorhiza, suggesting that this tissue plays a key role in dormancy release. Constitutive expression of a CYP707A gene in transgenic Arabidopsis resulted in decreased ABA content in mature dry seeds and a much shorter after-ripening period to overcome dormancy. Conversely, mutating the CYP707A2 gene resulted in seeds that required longer after-ripening to break dormancy. Our results point to a pivotal role for the ABA 8'-hydroxylase gene in controlling dormancy and that the action of this enzyme may be confined to a particular organ as in the coleorhiza of cereals.
Two genetic loci control the vernalization response in winter cereals; VRN1, which encodes an AP1-like MADS-box transcription factor, and VRN2, which has been mapped to a chromosome region containing ZCCT zinc finger transcription factor genes. We examined whether daylength regulates expression of HvVRN1 and HvVRN2. In a vernalization-responsive winter barley (Hordeum vulgare), expression of HvVRN1 is regulated by vernalization and by development, but not by daylength. Daylength affected HvVRN1 expression in only one of six vernalization-insensitive spring barleys examined and so cannot be a general feature of regulation of this gene. In contrast, daylength is the major determinant of expression levels of two ZCCT genes found at the barley VRN2 locus, HvZCCTa and HvZCCTb. In winter barley, high levels of HvZCCTa and HvZCCTb expression were detected only when plants were grown in long days. During vernalization in long-day conditions, HvVRN1 is induced and expression of HvZCCTb is repressed. During vernalization under short days, induction of HvVRN1 occurs without changes in HvZCCTa and HvZCCTb expression. Analysis of HvZCCTa and HvZCCTb expression levels in a doubled haploid population segregating for different vernalization and daylength requirements showed that HvVRN1 genotype determines HvZCCTa and HvZCCTb expression levels. We conclude that the vernalization response is mediated through HvVRN1, whereas HvZCCTa and HvZCCTb respond to daylength cues to repress flowering under long days in nonvernalized plants.
Although barley and rice belong to the same family Poaceae, they differ in their ability to tolerate salt stress. In an attempt to understand the molecular bases of such differences, we compared changes in transcriptome between barley and rice in response to salt stress using barley cDNA microarrays. At 1 and 24 h after salt stress, many genes were up-regulated in barley, but not in rice. Leaf water potential declined in the first 10 h of stress in both species, but recovered in the period 24-48 h only in barley. In addition, we found that barley partitioned Na+ to the roots and away from the shoots more efficiently than rice. These differences in physiological responses were correlated with the differences in the steady-state abundance of transcripts for the genes related to adaptive functions. Transcripts for plasma membrane protein 3 and inorganic pyrophosphatase were up-regulated in both species, but only transiently in rice. This indicates that adaptive mechanisms for regulating ion homeostasis are partly conserved in the two species, but it seems that rice cannot sustain cellular ion homeostasis for a long time like barley. These results imply that genetic modification of regulatory controls of early salt-responsive genes might lead to development of the salt tolerance trait in rice.
Winterhardiness has three primary components: photoperiod (day length) sensitivity, vernalization response, and low temperature tolerance. Photoperiod and vernalization regulate the vegetative to reproductive phase transition, and photoperiod regulates expression of key vernalization genes. Using two barley mapping populations, we mapped six individual photoperiod response QTL and determined their positional relationship to the phytochrome and cryptochrome photoreceptor gene families and the vernalization regulatory genes HvBM5A, ZCCT-H, and HvVRT-2. Of the six photoreceptors mapped in the current study (HvPhyA and HvPhyB to 4HS, HvPhyC to 5HL, HvCry1a and HvCry2 to 6HS, and HvCry1b to 2HL), only HvPhyC coincided with a photoperiod response QTL. We recently mapped the candidate genes for the 5HL VRN-H1 (HvBM5A) and 4HL VRN-H2 (ZCCT-H) loci, and in this study, we mapped HvVRT-2, the barley TaVRT-2 ortholog (a wheat flowering repressor regulated by vernalization and photoperiod) to 7HS. Each of these three vernalization genes is located in chromosome regions determining small photoperiod response QTL effects. HvBM5A and HvPhyC are closely linked on 5HL and therefore are currently both positional candidates for the same photoperiod effect. The coincidence of photoperiod-responsive vernalization genes with photoperiod QTL suggests vernalization genes should also be considered candidates for photoperiod effects.
To investigate whether homologs of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) LRK10 gene was expressed in powdery mildew-resistant lines after inoculation with Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici, one degenerate primer for 5'-RACE was designed according to the 6th kinase subdomain of LRK10 and other plant kinases. 5'-RACE was performed with the template cDNA synthesized with RNA extracted from seedling leaves of a powdery mildew-resistant wheat line "99-2439" after inoculation with B. graminis. One 1551 bp cDNA fragment representing a protein kinase gene was obtained (S1125, GenBank accession number: AY584533). Subsequently, a 2255-bp full-length cDNA clone with a complete encoding region (open reading frame, ORF) was obtained by RACE. The clone encodes a polypeptide consisting of 637 amino acid residues. The result of homology search showed that it belongs to a receptor-like kinase gene family in wheat, which was named as wlrk (wheat leaf rust kinase) previously. Similar to LRK10, this protein kinase has five distinct domains: a hydrophobic signal sequence at the amino-terminus, a putative extracellular domain, a transmembrane domain, a highly charged sequence and a serine/threonine kinase domain at the carboxy-terminus, and thus it was named as TaLRK (Triticum aestivum LRK). The expression pattern of TaLRK at transcription level in leaves after B. graminis infection was investigated by semi-quantitative RT-PCR (semi-QRT-PCR), using wheat actin gene as a control. The result showed that the transcription of TaLRK was significantly enhanced by B. graminis infection. The expression pattern of TaLRK in different tissues showed that this new wheat RLK gene was expressed only in green parts of wheat. This study suggests that TaLRK may function in wheat powdery mildew resistance responses.
Arabidopsis thaliana is a host to the powdery mildew Erysiphe cichoracearum and nonhost to Blumeria graminis f. sp hordei, the powdery mildew pathogenic on barley (Hordeum vulgare). Screening for Arabidopsis mutants deficient in resistance to barley powdery mildew identified PENETRATION3 (PEN3). pen3 plants permitted both increased invasion into epidermal cells and initiation of hyphae by B. g. hordei, suggesting that PEN3 contributes to defenses at the cell wall and intracellularly. pen3 mutants were compromised in resistance to the necrotroph Plectosphaerella cucumerina and to two additional inappropriate biotrophs, pea powdery mildew (Erysiphe pisi) and potato late blight (Phytophthora infestans). Unexpectedly, pen3 mutants were resistant to E. cichoracearum. This resistance was salicylic acid-dependent and correlated with chlorotic patches. Consistent with this observation, salicylic acid pathway genes were hyperinduced in pen3 relative to the wild type. The phenotypes conferred by pen3 result from the loss of function of PLEIOTROPIC DRUG RESISTANCE8 (PDR8), a highly expressed putative ATP binding cassette transporter. PEN3/PDR8 tagged with green fluorescent protein localized to the plasma membrane in uninfected cells. In infected leaves, the protein concentrated at infection sites. PEN3/PDR8 may be involved in exporting toxic materials to attempted invasion sites, and intracellular accumulation of these toxins in pen3 may secondarily activate the salicylic acid pathway.
The selection of suitable inducible-promoters is one of the most important chains in transgenic researches for plant tolerances to drought, dehydration and other abiotic stresses. Based on laboratory researches in the past years, it was set up a set of methods that could be used to rapidly determine the transient expression characteristics of drought- and dehydration-inducible promoters by using whole barley seedling and plant leaves in vitro as bombardment objects. Promoters Dhn4s, Dhn8s, HVA1s, Rab16Bj and wsi18j isolated from barley and rice were able to express GFP in the leaves of barley, wheat, rice, sorghum and fern after drying treatment, but not in laves of mungbean and tomato. The qualitative expression of HVA1s and wsi18j in different organs and tissues of barley was identified. A method for quantitative analysis of promoter transient expression was established by means of GFP foci/GUS foci counting or GUS activity/XYN activity test. Finally, the value and prospect of the methodology were discussed in terms of its application to the analysis of plant promoters inducible by environmental factors.
The ScFTR1 gene encodes an iron permease in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Its homologues, FgFtr1 and FgFtr2, were identified from filamentous pathogenic plant fungus, Fusarium graminearum. Homologies between the deduced amino acid sequences of ScFtr1p and FgFtr1 and FgFtr2 were 56 and 54%, respectively, and both had REXXE sequences, which form the conserved amino acid sequence of ScFtr1p. FgFtr1 expression increased under iron depletion, and although FgFtr2 mRNA was not detected in the wild-type strain, it was detected in the deltafgftr1 strain in the iron-depleted condition. When the FgFtr1 and FgFtr2 were deleted, the amount of growth was found not to be different from the wild-type in iron-depleted media. However, the mRNA of FgSid, a homologue of the SIDA of Aspergillus fumigatus, was dramatically increased in the deltafgftr1/deltafgftr2 strain and in an iron-depleted condition. FgFtr1 and FgFtr2 genes act as functional complements when they are introduced into the S. cerevisiae deltaScftr1 strain. The deltaScftr1 strain, which contains either the FgFtr1 or FgFtr2, grew well in iron-depleted media. Moreover, specific alteration of the REXXE consensus sequence of FgFtr1 and FgFtr2 did not allow for sustained growth of the deltaScftr1 strain on iron-depleted medium. The iron uptake activity was recovered when FgFtr1 and FgFtr2 genes were introduced into the deltaScftr1 strain. Though the Fet3p in S. cerevisiae was found on the intracellular vesicle in the deltaScftr1 strain, Fet3p was found on the plasma membrane when FgFtr1 or FgFtr2 was introduced into the deltaftr1 strain. An infection test was carried out with deletion strains; however, no change in the ability of these strains to cause disease was observed. These results suggest that FgFtr1 and FgFtr2 may function as iron permeases in the reductive iron uptake pathway and that they do not play major roles in the pathogenicity of F. graminearum.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is a salt-tolerant crop species with considerable economic importance in salinity-affected arid and semiarid regions of the world. In this work, barley cultivar Morex was used for transcriptional profiling during salinity stress using a microarray containing approximately 22,750 probe sets. The experiment was designed to target the early responses of genes to a salinity stress at seedling stage. We found a comparable number of probe sets up-regulated and down-regulated in response to salinity. The differentially expressed genes were broadly characterized using gene ontology and through expression-based hierarchical clustering to identify interesting features in the data. A prominent feature of the response to salinity was the induction of genes involved in jasmonic acid biosynthesis and genes known to respond to jasmonic acid treatment. A large number of abiotic stress (heat, drought, and low temperature) related genes were also found to be responsive to salinity stress. Our results also indicate osmoprotection to be an early response of barley under salinity stress. Additionally, we compared the results of our studies with two other reports characterizing gene expression of barley under salinity stress and found very few genes in common.
There is little information available on the primary products of photosynthesis and the change in the activity of the associated enzymes with altitude. We studied the same in varieties of barley and wheat grown at 1300 (low altitude, LA) and 4200 m (high altitude, HA) elevations above mean sea level in the western Himalayas. Plants at both the locations had similar photosynthetic rates, leaf water potential and the chlorophyll fluorescence kinetics. The short-term radio-labelling experiments in leaves showed appearance of (14)CO(2) in phosphoglyceric acid and sugar phosphates in plants at both the LA and HA, suggesting a major role of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) in CO(2) fixation in the plants at two altitudes, whereas the appearance of labelled carbon in aspartate (Asp) and glutamate (Glu) at HA suggested a role of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPCase) in photosynthesis metabolism. Plants at HA had significantly higher activities of PEPCase, carboxylase and oxygenase activity of Rubisco, aspartate aminotransferase (AspAT), and glutamine synthetase (GS). However, the activities of malate dehydrogenase, NAD-malic enzyme and citrate synthase were similar at the two locations. Such an altered metabolism at HA suggested that PEPCase probably captured CO(2) directly from the atmosphere and/or that generated metabolically e.g. from photorespiration at HA. Higher oxygenase activity at HA suggests high photorespiratory activity. OAA thus produced could be additionally channelised for Asp synthesis using Glu as a source of ammonia. Higher GS activity ensures higher assimilation rate of NH(3) and the synthesis of Glu through GS-GOGAT (glutamine:2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase) pathway, also as supported by the appearance of radiolabel in Glu at HA. Enhanced PEPCase activity coupled with higher activities of AspAT and GS suggests a role in conserving C and N in the HA environment.
Genetic control of grass inflorescence architecture is critical given that cereal seeds provide most of the world's food. Seeds are borne on axillary branches, which arise from groups of stem cells in axils of leaves and whose branching patterns dictate most of the variation in plant form. Normal maize (Zea mays) ears are unbranched, and tassels have long branches only at their base. The ramosa2 (ra2) mutant of maize has increased branching with short branches replaced by long, indeterminate ones. ra2 was cloned by chromosome walking and shown to encode a LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARY domain transcription factor. ra2 is transiently expressed in a group of cells that predicts the position of axillary meristem formation in inflorescences. Expression in different mutant backgrounds places ra2 upstream of other genes that regulate branch formation. The early expression of ra2 suggests that it functions in the patterning of stem cells in axillary meristems. Alignment of ra2-like sequences reveals a grass-specific domain in the C terminus that is not found in Arabidopsis thaliana. The ra2-dm allele suggests this domain is required for transcriptional activation of ra1. The ra2 expression pattern is conserved in rice (Oryza sativa), barley (Hordeum vulgare), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and maize, suggesting that ra2 is critical for shaping the initial steps of grass inflorescence architecture.
The genetic control of virulence was studied in four isolates of the fungus Pyrenophora teres f. teres, originating from various geographic regions in experiments with nine barley accessions, possessing known resistance genes. Experiments were performed with the ascospore progeny of two crosses. The results of segregation for virulence in the progeny of direct crosses were confirmed by analysis of backcrosses and sib crosses. One to four genes for avirulence toward various barley genotypes were found in the isolates under study. It is suggested that dominant suppressor genes are involved in the genetic control of avirulence toward four barley genotypes.
The functional analysis of hydrolase gene promoters induced by gibberellin (GA) in barley aleurone cells upon germination has identified a tripartite GA-response complex (GARC) containing a 5'-TATCCAC-3' box as well as the GA-responsive element (GARE) recognized by GAMYB and the pyrimidine box interacting with the DOF transcription factors BPBF and SAD. We show here that the MCB1 gene encoding a R1MYB protein binds to the 5'-TATCCAC-3' (GATA core) box in vitro and is a transcriptional repressor of a GA-induced amylase (Amy6.4) promoter in bombarded aleurone layers. Northern blot and mRNA in situ hybridization analyses showed that the MCB1 transcripts accumulate in the aleurone cells upon germination, as well as in endosperm tissues during seed development. The HvMCB1 protein expressed in bacteria binds in a specific manner to a 27-mer oligonucleotide containing the 5'-TATCCAC-3' sequence, derived from the promoter region of the Amy6.4 gene. Accumulation of the MCB1 transcript diminished in response to external GA incubation in aleurone cells, and in transient expression experiments HvMCB1 repressed transcription of the Amy6.4 promoter in GA-treated aleurone layers and reversed the GAMYB-mediated activation of this amylase promoter. In contrast, during endosperm maturation HvMCB1 acted as a transcription activator of the seed-specific Itr1 gene promoter through binding to a 5'-GATAAGATA-3' box.
Barley homolog of the Arabidopsis necrotic (disease lesion mimic) mutant HLM1 that encodes the cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channel 4 was cloned. Barley gene was mapped genetically to the known necrotic locus nec1 and subsequent sequence analysis identified mutations in five available nec1 alleles confirming barley homolog of Arabidopsis HLM1 as the NEC1 gene. Two fast neutron (FN) induced mutants had extensive deletions in the gene, while two previously described nec1 alleles had either a STOP codon in exon 1 or a MITE insertion in intron 2 which caused alternative splicing, frame shift and production of a predicted non-functional protein. The MITE insertion was consistent with the reported spontaneous origin of the nec1 Parkland allele. The third FN mutant had a point mutation in the coding sequence which resulted in an amino acid change in the conserved predicted cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channel pore region. The expression of two pathogenesis-related genes, HvPR-1a and beta-1,3-glucanase, was elevated in two FN necrotic lines. Ten other members of the barley cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channel gene family were identified and their position on barley linkage map is reported.
Wheat-barley chromosome addition lines are useful genetic resources for a variety of studies. In this study, transcript accumulation patterns in Betzes barley, Chinese Spring wheat, and Chinese Spring-Betzes chromosome addition lines were examined with the Barley1 Affymetrix GeneChip probe array. Of the 4014 transcripts detected in Betzes but not in Chinese Spring, 365, 271, 265, 323, 194, and 369 were detected in wheat-barley disomic chromosome addition lines 2(2H), 3(3H), 4(4H), 7(5H), 6(6H), and 1(7H), respectively. Thus, 1787 barley transcripts were detected in a wheat genetic background and, by virtue of the addition line in which they were detected, were physically mapped to barley chromosomes. We validated and extended our approach to physically map barley genes to the long and short arms of chromosome 6(6H). Our physical map data exhibited a high level of synteny with homologous sequences on the wheat and/or rice syntenous chromosomes, indicating that our barley physical maps are robust. Our results show that barley transcript detection in wheat-barley chromosome addition lines is an efficient approach for large-scale physical mapping of genes.
Cereal crop yield is greatly affected in many growing areas by abiotic stresses, mainly low temperature and drought. In order to find candidates for the tolerance genes for these stresses, 13 genes encoding for transcription factors and upstream regulators were screened by amplification and SSCP on six parental genotypes of three barley mapping populations ('Nure' x 'Tremois', 'Proctor' x 'Nudinka', and 'Steptoe' x 'Morex'), and mapped as newly developed STS, SNP, and SSCP markers. A new consensus function map was then drawn using the three maps above, including 16 regulatory candidate genes (CGs). The positions of barley cold and drought tolerance quantitative trait loci (QTLs) presently described in the literature were added to the consensus map to find positional candidates from among the mapped genes. A cluster of six HvCBF genes co-mapped with the Fr-H2 cold tolerance QTL, while no QTLs for the same trait were positioned on chromosome 7H, where two putative barley regulators of CBF expression, ICE1 and FRY1, found by homology search, were mapped in this work. These observations suggest that CBF gene(s) themselves, rather than their two regulators, are at present the best candidates for cold tolerance. Four out of 12 drought tolerance QTLs of the consensus map are associated with regulatory CGs, on chromosomes 2H, 5H, and 7H, and two QTLs with effector genes, on chromosomes 5H and 6H. The results obtained could be used to guide MAS applications, allowing introduction into an ideal genotype of favourable alleles of tolerance QTLs.
The monocistronic mRNAs of ndhH and ndhA genes of the plastid ndhH-D operon accumulate during senescence. In a step forward to discover the mechanisms involved in the production of mature transcripts of the ndhH-D operon, we determined the 5 - and 3 -ends of low-molecular-weight ndhH, ndhA and ndhI transcripts of barley. The 3'-end of the only ndhH mRNA detected (1622 b) extends 421 b into exon1 of ndhA. Several monocistronic ndhA mRNAs were identified and most of them extend their 3'-ends through the adjacent intergenic 101 b region to around 105 b into ndhI, the neighboring gene in the operon. Unspliced ndhA transcripts (around 2.4 kb and intron-containing) were also identified with different 3'-ends extending almost 200 b into ndhI. In contrast, all ndhA transcripts showed the same 5'-end 65 b upstream of the ndhH stop codon. 5'-ends of all ndhA and ndhH transcripts seem produced by nuclease cleavages between the last AA of the consensus sequence AAUGAA present 66 and 16 b upstream of the respective start codon. Secondary structure predictions suggest that 3'-end extensions provide 3'-UTR stabilizing elements to ndhH-D transcripts. Therefore, the processing of the 7.8 kb primary transcript frequently involves intra-genic cleavages sacrificing downstream gene messages and decreasing the efficiency of the conversion to mature ndh mRNAs. Significantly, the maturation of ndhE mRNA would not sacrifice the downstream psaC message, contributing to higher levels of psaC mRNA than of ndh mRNAs.
The ability of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) chlorophyll biosynthetic mutants to regulate the expression of Lhc genes was analyzed by a microarray approach. The Lhc genes are located in the nucleus and encode chlorophyll a/b binding proteins of the light-harvesting complex. The chlorophyll a/b binding proteins are some of the many proteins, which are imported to the chloroplast. It has been suggested that the chloroplast can regulate expression of nuclear genes encoding chloroplast proteins, using a chlorophyll biosynthetic intermediate such as Mg-protoporphyrin IX (MP) or Mg-protoporphyrin IX monomethyl ester (MPE) as a signal molecule. These compounds are intermediates between the two enzymes magnesium-chelatase (EC 6.6.1.1) and Mg-protoporphyrin IX monomethyl ester cyclase (EC 1.14.13.81) in the chlorophyll biosynthetic pathway. Genomes uncoupled (gun) mutants are defective in the chloroplast-to-nucleus signal transduction and express Lhc even when chloroplast development is inhibited by the herbicide norflurazon. We show that barley xantha-f, -g and -h mutants, defective in the three Mg-chelatase genes, have a gun phenotype. In contrast, a xantha-l mutant, defective in a gene of Mg-protoporphyrin monomethyl ester cyclase did not. Genome uncoupling in the xantha-f, -g, -h and -l mutants was also analyzed in absence of norflurazon. All mutants showed transcription of Lhc. This was unexpected in the case of xantha-l as this mutant showed accumulation of MPE, which has been suggested to be one of the two negative regulators of Lhc transcription. We suggest that chlorophyll intermediates may only function as signal molecules at an early developmental stage of chloroplast development.
Realization of programmed cell death in senescence represents an activation/inactivation of the respective gene. Enzymatic methylation of nuclear DNA with the creation of 5methylcytosine is one of the mechanisms, which can regulate gene activity in animal and plant cells. 5Azacytidine (5azaC) acts as an inhibitor of DNA methylation, and induces expression of a range of some genes including genes responsible for senescence. Fragmentation of nuclear DNA is one of the hallmarks of programmed cell death in apoptosis pathway in plant cells. The influence of 5azaC (100 microg/ml) on nuclear DNS amount and its fragmentation in the first leaf cells of barley was studied. It was shown that in the first leaf cells of barley seedlings there is an apoptosis pathway of programmed cell death. It was also observed that nuclear DNA fragmentation under the 5azaC influence is strongly inhibited, and the DNA amount in the first leaf increases. Synthesis and destruction of chlorophyll also play a significant role in programmed cell death in plants. It was shown that under the 5azaC influence, the absorption spectrum of a pigment does not change in leaves and coleoptiles in the light, whereas in the dark condition, these pigments are not created under the 5azaC influence.
The wall-associated kinase (WAK) gene family, one of the receptor-like kinase (RLK) gene families in plants, plays important roles in cell expansion, pathogen resistance, and heavy-metal stress tolerance in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Through a reiterative database search and manual reannotation, we identified 125 OsWAK gene family members from rice (Oryza sativa) japonica cv Nipponbare; 37 (approximately 30%) OsWAKs were corrected/reannotated from earlier automated annotations. Of the 125 OsWAKs, 67 are receptor-like kinases, 28 receptor-like cytoplasmic kinases, 13 receptor-like proteins, 12 short genes, and five pseudogenes. The two-intron gene structure of the Arabidopsis WAK/WAK-Likes is generally conserved in OsWAKs; however, extra/missed introns were observed in some OsWAKs either in extracellular regions or in protein kinase domains. In addition to the 38 OsWAKs with full-length cDNA sequences and the 11 with rice expressed sequence tag sequences, gene expression analyses, using tiling-microarray analysis of the 20 OsWAKs on chromosome 10 and reverse transcription-PCR analysis for five OsWAKs, indicate that the majority of identified OsWAKs are likely expressed in rice. Phylogenetic analyses of OsWAKs, Arabidopsis WAK/WAK-Likes, and barley (Hordeum vulgare) HvWAKs show that the OsWAK gene family expanded in the rice genome due to lineage-specific expansion of the family in monocots. Localized gene duplications appear to be the primary genetic event in OsWAK gene family expansion and the 125 OsWAKs, present on all 12 chromosomes, are mostly clustered.
Plants commonly use photoperiod (day length) to control the timing of flowering during the year, and variation in photoperiod response has been selected in many crops to provide adaptation to different environments and farming practices. Positional cloning identified Ppd-H1, the major determinant of barley photoperiod response, as a pseudo-response regulator, a class of genes involved in circadian clock function. Reduced photoperiod responsiveness of the ppd-H1 mutant, which is highly advantageous in spring-sown varieties, is explained by altered circadian expression of the photoperiod pathway gene CONSTANS and reduced expression of its downstream target, FT, a key regulator of flowering.
Using a cDNA array-based functional genomics approach in barley, several candidate genes for malting quality including serine carboxypeptidase I (Cxp1) were previously identified (Potokina et al. in Mol Breed 14:153, 2004). The gene was mapped as a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) marker on chromosome 3H using the Steptoe (feeding grade)xMorex (malting grade) mapping population. Subsequently, the relative level of Cxp1 expression was determined by real-time RT-PCR for each of the 134 progeny lines and mapped as a quantitative trait. Only one quantitative trait locus (QTL) could be identified that significantly influenced the level of the Cxp1 expression. The expressed QTL maps to the same region on chromosome 3H as does the structural gene and corresponds to a QTL for "diastatic power," one among several traits measured to assess malting quality. An analysis of 90 barley cultivars sampled from a worldwide collection revealed six SNPs at the Cxp1 locus, three of which display complete linkage disequilibrium and define two haplotypes. The Cxp1 expression level in a set of barley accessions showing haplotype I was significantly higher than that of accessions displaying haplotype II. The data provide evidence that (1) the expression of Cxp1 is regulated in cis and that (2) the level of diastatic power in the barley seed is influenced by the level of Cxp1 expression.
To explore the structure essential for the catalysis in 26 kDa endochitinase from barley seeds, we calculated theoretical pKa values of the ionizable groups based on the crystal structure, and then the roles of ionizable side chains located near the catalytic residue were examined by site-directed mutagenesis. The pKa value calculated for Arg215, which is located at the bottom of the catalytic cleft, is abnormally high (>20.0), indicating that the guanidyl group may interact strongly with nearby charges. No enzymatic activity was found in the Arg215-mutated chitinase (R215A) produced by the Escherichia coli expression system. The transition temperature of thermal unfolding (T(m)) of R215A was lower than that of the wild type protein by about 6.2 degrees C. In the crystal structure, the Arg215 side chain is in close proximity to the Glu203 side chain, whose theoretical pKa value was found to be abnormally low (-2.4), suggesting that these side chains may interact with each other. Mutation of Glu203 to alanine (E203A) completely eliminated the enzymatic activity and impaired the thermal stability (deltaT(m) = 6.4 degrees C) of the enzyme. Substrate binding ability was also affected by the Glu203 mutation. These data clearly demonstrate that the Arg215 side chain interacts with the Glu203 side chain to stabilize the conformation of the catalytic cleft. A similar interaction network was previously found in chitosanase from Streptomyces sp. N174 [Fukamizo et al. (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275, 25633-25640]; hence, this type of interaction seems to be at least partly conserved in the catalytic cleft of other glycosyl hydrolases.
The moss Physcomitrella patens possesses a single copy of a Group 1 LEA gene, designated PpLEA-1. Sequence analysis of the PpLEA-1 gene reveals the gene to contain a single intron in a position conserved in all members of the Group 1 LEA gene family, but also to contain a premature termination codon within the first exon. Nevertheless, a PpLEA-1 transcript accumulates in moss tissues in response both to the imposition of osmotic stress, and to the plant growth regulator abscisic acid (ABA). This response appears to be mediated at the transcriptional level, and observation of the pattern of gene expression, reported by histochemical staining of plants expressing a PpLea-1::GUS transgene suggests that the promoter responds preferentially to ABA in protonemal filaments, whereas osmotic stress induces gene expression primarily in the gametophores. Quantitative analysis of promoter activity by transient expression in Physcomitrella protoplasts shows the PpLEA-1 promoter to be highly active in response to ABA and osmotic stress. ABA-mediated transgene expression from the PpLea-1 promoter occurs at a level similar to that driven by the highly active promoter of the wheat Group 1 LEA gene, E(m). Site-directed mutagenesis of the PpLEA-1 promoter indicates that ABA-inducibility is mediated via an ACGT-core motif similar to that seen in the ABA response elements of higher plant LEA genes. However, whereas the wheat E(m )promoter is active in moss tissues, the moss promoter is not reciprocally active in cereal cells: no activity, ABA-inducible or otherwise was detected in barley aleurone protoplasts transfected with the PpLEA-1::GUS construct. We propose that ABA activation of gene expression in moss cells represents an ancestral state, with only minimal requirements for promoter recognition, whereas cereal cells require the interaction of additional factors with ABA-responsive promoters.
UGE (UDP-Glc 4-epimerase or UDP-Gal 4-epimerase; EC 5.1.3.2) catalyses the interconversion of UDP-Gal and UDP-Glc. Both nucleotide sugars act as activated sugar donors for the biosynthesis of cell wall polysaccharides such as cellulose, xyloglucans, (1,3;1,4)-beta-D-glucan and pectins, together with other biologically significant compounds including glycoproteins and glycolipids. Three members of the HvUGE (barley UGE) gene family, designated HvUGE1, HvUGE2 and HvUGE3, have been characterized. Q-PCR (quantitative real-time PCR) showed that HvUGE1 mRNA was most abundant in leaf tips and mature roots, but its expression levels were relatively low in basal leaves and root tips. The HvUGE2 gene was transcribed at significant levels in all organs examined, while HvUGE3 mRNA levels were very low in all the organs. Heterologous expression of a near full-length cDNA confirmed that HvUGE1 encodes a functional UGE. A non-covalently bound NAD+ was released from the enzyme after denaturing with aqueous ethanol and was identified by its spectrophotometric properties and by electrospray ionization MS. The K(m) values were 40 microM for UDP-Gal and 55 muM for UDP-Glc. HvUGE also catalyses the interconversion of UDP-GalNAc and UDP-GlcNAc, although it is not known if this has any biological significance. A three-dimensional model of the HvUGE revealed that its overall structural fold is highly conserved compared with the human UGE and provides a structural rationale for its ability to bind UDP-GlcNAc.
Fusarium head blight epidemics of wheat and barley cause heavy economic losses to farmers due to yield decreases and production of mycotoxin that renders the grain useless for flour and malt products. No highly resistant cultivars are available at present. Hyphae of germinating fungal spores use different paths of infection: After germination at the extruded tip of an ovary, the hyphae travel along the epicarp in the space between the lemma and palea. Infection of the developing kernel proceeds through the epicarp, successively destroying the layers of the fruit coat and finally the starch and protein accumulating endosperm. Hyphae reaching the rachis proceed to apically located developing kernels. Using a constitutively green fluorescence protein-expressing Fusarium wild-type strain, and its knockout mutant, preventing trichothecene synthesis, we demonstrate that trichothecenes are not a virulence factor during infection through the fruit coat. In the absence of trichothecenes, the fungus is blocked by the development of heavy cell wall thickenings in the rachis node of Nandu wheat, a defense inhibited by the mycotoxin. In barley hyphae of both wild-type and the trichothecene knockout mutant, are inhibited at the rachis node and rachilla, limiting infection of adjacent florets through the phloem and along the surface of the rachis. Effective resistance to Fusarium head blight requires expression of genes that combat these different pathways of infection.
The function of HKT1 in roots is controversial. We tackled this controversy by studying Na+ uptake in barley (Hordeum vulgare) roots, cloning the HvHKT1 gene, and expressing the HvHKT1 cDNA in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) cells. High-affinity Na+ uptake was not detected in plants growing at high K+ but appeared soon after exposing the plants to a K(+)-free medium. It was a uniport, insensitive to external K+ at the beginning of K+ starvation and inhibitable by K+ several hours later. The expression of HvHKT1 in yeast was Na+ (or K+) uniport, Na(+)-K+ symport, or a mix of both, depending on the construct from which the transporter was expressed. The Na+ uniport function was insensitive to external K+ and mimicked the Na+ uptake carried out by the roots at the beginning of K+ starvation. The K+ uniport function only took place in yeast cells that were completely K+ starved and disappeared when internal K+ increased, which makes it unlikely that HvHKT1 mediates K+ uptake in roots. Mutation of the first in-frame AUG codon of HvHKT1 to CUC changed the uniport function into symport. The expression of the symport from either mutants or constructs keeping the first in-frame AUG took place only in K(+)-starved cells, while the uniport was expressed in all conditions. We discuss here that the symport occurs only in heterologous expression. It is most likely related to the K+ inhibitable Na+ uptake process of roots that heterologous systems fail to reproduce.
Conversion of undesirable, taste-active compounds is crucial for using barley as a suitable raw material for beer production. Here, ALH1, a barley alkenal hydrogenase enzyme that reduced the alpha,beta-unsaturated double bond of aldehydes and ketones, was found to convert trans-2-nonenal (T2N), a major contributor to the cardboard-like flavor of aged beer. Although the physiological function of ALH1 in barley development remains elusive, it exhibited high specificity with NADPH as a cofactor in the conversion of several oxylipins-including T2N, trans-2-hexenal, traumatin, and 1-octen-3-one. ALH1 action represents a previously unknown mechanism for T2N conversion in barley. Additional experimental results resolved the genomic sequence for barley ALH1, as well as the identification of a paralog gene encoding ALH2. Interestingly, T2N was not converted by purified, recombinant ALH2. The possibility to enhance ALH1 activity in planta is discussed--not only with respect to the physiological consequences thereof--but also in relation to improved beer quality.
Barley endosperm development can be subdivided into the pre-storage, intermediate, storage and desiccation phase. Nothing is known about DNA methylation events involved in different endosperm-specific developmental programmes. A complete set of methylation cycle enzyme genes was identified and investigated by mRNA expression analysis. During the pre-storage phase, methionine synthase and S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet) synthase genes are expressed at high levels, mainly to produce AdoMet, which might be used for methylation processes as indicated by high expression of methyltransferases HvMET1, HvCMT1 and HvDnmt3-1 as well as AdoHcy hydrolase genes. The methyltransferases, core histones and DNA-unwinding ATPases are co-expressed at the mRNA level. On the contrary, storage protein (prolamin) gene expression is repressed due to CpG methylation. Expression of genes responsible for starch biosynthesis is also developmentally regulated but not methylation-dependent. Thus, during pre-storage phase, activity of HvMET1 and HvCMT1 possibly maintains DNA replication and suppresses specific pathways of maturation. Besides, HvDnmt3-1 might be responsible for differentiation-specific de novo methylation. Expression of methyltransferases HvDnmt3-2 and HvCMT2 peaks during the onset of massive starch accumulation. The enzymes are likely responsible for DNA methylation involved in determining plastid division and amyloplast differentiation as concluded from the patterns of co-expressed genes. Levels of AdoMet decarboxylase mRNA, but not methyltransferase- and AdoHcy mRNA, increase at the beginning of desiccation together with methionine synthase and AdoMet synthase levels. This increase may be indicative for utilization of AdoMet in polyamine production protecting aleuron and embryo cell membranes during desiccation.
CBFs are key regulators in the Arabidopsis cold signaling pathway. We used Hordeum vulgare (barley), an important crop and a diploid Triticeae model, to characterize the CBF family from a low temperature tolerant cereal. We report that barley contains a large CBF family consisting of at least 20 genes (HvCBFs) comprising three multigene phylogenetic groupings designated the HvCBF1-, HvCBF3-, and HvCBF4-subgroups. For the HvCBF1- and HvCBF3-subgroups, there are comparable levels of phylogenetic diversity among rice, a cold-sensitive cereal, and the cold-hardy Triticeae. For the HvCBF4-subgroup, while similar diversity levels are observed in the Triticeae, only a single ancestral rice member was identified. The barley CBFs share many functional characteristics with dicot CBFs, including a general primary domain structure, transcript accumulation in response to cold, specific binding to the CRT motif, and the capacity to induce cor gene expression when ectopically expressed in Arabidopsis. Individual HvCBF genes differed in response to abiotic stress types and in the response time frame, suggesting different sets of HvCBF genes are employed relative to particular stresses. HvCBFs specifically bound monocot and dicot cor gene CRT elements in vitro under both warm and cold conditions; however, binding of HvCBF4-subgroup members was cold dependent. The temperature-independent HvCBFs activated cor gene expression at warm temperatures in transgenic Arabidopsis, while the cold-dependent HvCBF4-subgroup members of three Triticeae species did not. These results suggest that in the Triticeae - as in Arabidopsis - members of the CBF gene family function as fundamental components of the winter hardiness regulon.
More than 2,000 genome-wide barley single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were developed by resequencing unigene fragments from eight diverse accessions. The average genome-wide SNP frequency observed in 877 unigenes was 1 SNP per 200 bp. However, SNP frequency was highly variable with the least number of SNP and SNP haplotypes observed within European cultivated germplasm reflecting effects of breeding history on genetic diversity. More than 300 SNP loci were mapped genetically in three experimental mapping populations which allowed the construction of an integrated SNP map incorporating a large number of RFLP, AFLP and SSR markers (1,237 loci in total). The genes used for SNP discovery were selected based on their transcriptional response to a variety of abiotic stresses. A set of known barley abiotic stress QTL was positioned on the linkage map, while the available sequence and gene expression information facilitated the identification of genes potentially associated with these traits. Comparison of the sequenced SNP loci to the rice genome sequence identified several regions of highly conserved gene order providing a framework for marker saturation in barley genomic regions of interest. The integration of genome-wide SNP and expression data with available genetic and phenotypic information will facilitate the identification of gene function in barley and other non-model organisms.
A full-length cDNA, named MsNHX1, encoding a vacuolar Na+/H+ antiporter was cloned from alfalfa (Medicago sativa), using degenerate primers, followed by 3' and 5' RACE. The cDNA sequence was 2225 bp long and included an open reading frame encoding a deduced protein of 541-amino-acid polypeptide. The deduced amino acid sequence showed high similarity (more than 73%) to those of the previously cloned Na+/H+ antiporters form Arabidopsis thaliana, Qryza sativa, Atriplex gemlinin, Beta vulgaris and Hordeum vulgare. Southern hybridization showed that MsNHX1 has only one copy in alfalfa genome. Semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis indicated that the mRNA level of MsNHX1 was moderate without stress and markedly up-regulated after treatment by NaCl and ABA (abscisic acid). Those results suggest that the MsNHX1 product play an important role in salt tolerance of the alfalfa, and its transcript expression is possibly partially regulated through ABA-dependent signaling pathway.
Storage oil is a major constituent in the cereal aleurone layer. The aim of this study was to investigate how gibberellin (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA) regulate conversion of oil to sugar in barley aleurone. The activity of the glyoxylate cycle enzyme isocitrate lyase (ICL) was surveyed in eight barley cultivars. Surprisingly, some cultivars do not require GA for the induction of ICL (e.g. Himalaya), whereas some do (e.g. Golden Promise). Furthermore, in Golden Promise, GA also stimulates triacylglycerol breakdown and enhances the net flux of carbon from acetate to sugar. In contrast, ABA strongly represses ICL activity and the flux of carbon from oil to sugar in both Golden Promise and Himalaya. Biolistics using a promoter reporter showed that GA and ABA regulate ICL at the level of transcription. Studies using barley and rice mutants and pharmacological agents show that GA-dependent induction of ICL activity is mediated by SLENDER1 and requires cGMP, but does not involve the transcription factor GAMYB. Gibberellin and ABA therefore act antagonistically to regulate gluconeogenesis in the aleurone layer as well as controlling the production and secretion of hydrolases into the starchy endosperm. We suggest that the variation between different barley cultivars might be a result of selective breeding to alter seed dormancy.
Vernalization, the requirement of a period of low temperature to induce transition from the vegetative to reproductive state, is an evolutionarily and economically important trait in the Triticeae. The genetic basis of vernalization in cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare subsp. vulgare) can be defined using the two-locus VRN-H1/VRN-H2 model. We analyzed the allelic characteristics of HvBM5A, the candidate gene for VRN-H1, from ten cultivated barley accessions and one wild progenitor accession (subsp. spontaneum), representing the three barley growth habits - winter, facultative, and spring. We present multiple lines of evidence, including sequence, linkage map location, and expression, that support HvBM5A being VRN-H1. While the predicted polypeptides from different growth habits are identical, spring accessions contain a deletion in the first intron of HvBM5A that may be important for regulation. While spring HvBM5A alleles are typified by the intron-localized deletion, in some cases, the promoter may also determine the allele type. The presence/absence of the tightly linked ZCCT-H gene family members on chromosome 4H perfectly correlates with growth habit and we conclude that one of the three ZCCT-H genes is VRN-H2. The VRN-H2 locus is present in winter genotypes and deleted from the facultative and spring genotypes analyzed in this study, suggesting the facultative growth habit (cold tolerant, vernalization unresponsive) is a result of deletion of the VRN-H2 locus and presence of a winter HvBM5A allele. All reported barley vernalization QTLs can be explained by the two-locus VRN-H1/VRN-H2 model based on the presence/absence of VRN-H2 and a winter vs. spring HvBM5A allele.
To investigate if there is an EDR1 pathway in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), a pair of degenerate primers was designed according to the cDNAs of Arabidopsis thaliana EDR1 gene and its homologs were used to isolate EDR1 gene homologs from wheat. RT-PCR was conducted on the cDNA template synthesized with RNA of wheat leaves. A 627-bp cDNA fragment representing an EDR1 gene (named as TaEDR1) was isolated (GenBank accession number: AY743662). Subsequently, the 3050-bp full-length cDNA sequence of TaEDR1, which encodes a polypeptide consisting of 959 amino acid residues, was obtained by RACE technique. The amino acid sequence of TaEDR1 and that of barley (Hordeum vulgare) EDR1 (signed as HvEDR1) show 92% identity. There is a highly conserved catalytic domain of serine/threonine protein kinases in the C-terminus of TaEDR1. Because this protein has a putative nuclear localization motif, it probably functions in the nucleus. This study provides the first molecular biological evidence of the presence of an EDR1 homolog in common wheat. The transcription pattern of TaEDR1 was investigated in leaves after inoculation with Blumeria graminis (DC.) E.O. Speer f. sp. tritici Em. Marchal (Bgt) through semi-quantitative RT-PCR (semi-QRT-PCR). The result showed that the transcribing of TaEDR1 was enhanced by Bgt. The expression pattern of the TaEDR1 gene in different tissues showed that it expressed in leaves, stems, spikes and roots. This study suggests that the TaEDR1, a MAP kinase kinase kinase, may function in wheat defense responses.
ArrayExpress is a public microarray repository founded on the Minimum Information About a Microarray Experiment (MIAME) principles that stores MIAME-compliant gene expression data. Plant-based data sets represent approximately one-quarter of the experiments in ArrayExpress. The majority are based on Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana); however, there are other data sets based on Triticum aestivum, Hordeum vulgare, and Populus subsp. AtMIAMExpress is an open-source Web-based software application for the submission of Arabidopsis-based microarray data to ArrayExpress. AtMIAMExpress exports data in MAGE-ML format for upload to any MAGE-ML-compliant application, such as J-Express and ArrayExpress. It was designed as a tool for users with minimal bioinformatics expertise, has comprehensive help and user support, and represents a simple solution to meeting the MIAME guidelines for the Arabidopsis community. Plant data are queryable both in ArrayExpress and in the Data Warehouse databases, which support queries based on gene-centric and sample-centric annotation. The AtMIAMExpress submission tool is available at http://www.ebi.ac.uk/at-miamexpress/. The software is open source and is available from http://sourceforge.net/projects/miamexpress/. For information, contact miamexpress@ebi.ac.uk.
Spot blotch, caused by Cochliobolus sativus, is an important disease of barley in the Upper Midwest region of the United States. The resistance of six-rowed malting cultivars like Morex has remained effective for over 40 years and is considered durable. Previous research on Steptoe/Morex (S/M), a 6x6-rowed doubled haploid (DH) population, showed that seedling resistance is controlled by a single gene (Rcs5) on chromosome 1(7H) and adult plant resistance by two quantitative trait loci (QTL): one of the major effect on chromosome 5(1H) explaining 62% of the phenotypic variance and a second of minor effect on chromosome 1(7H) explaining 9% of the phenotypic variance. To corroborate these results in a 2x6-rowed DH population, composite interval mapping (CIM) was performed on Harrington/Morex (H/M). As in the S/M population, a single major gene (presumably Rcs5) on chromosome 1(7H) conferred resistance at the seedling stage. However, at the adult plant stage, the results were markedly different as no chromosome 5(1H) effect whatsoever was detected. Instead, a QTL at or near Rcs5 on chromosome 1(7H) explained nearly all of the phenotypic variance (75%) for disease severity. To determine whether this result might be due to the genetic background of the two-rowed susceptible parent Harrington, we analyzed another DH population that included the same resistance donor (Morex) and another six-rowed susceptible cultivar Dicktoo (D/M). Three QTL conferred seedling resistance in the D/M population: one near Rcs5 on chromosome 1(7H) explaining 30%, a second near the centromere of chromosome 1(7H) explaining 9%, and a third on the short arm of chromosome 3(3H) explaining 19% of the phenotypic variation. As in the H/M population, no chromosome 5(1H) QTL was detected for adult plant resistance in the D/M population. Instead, three QTL on other chromosomes explained most of the variation: one on the short arm of chromosome 3(3H) explaining 36%, a second on the long arm of chromosome 3(3H) explaining 11%, and a third at or near Rcs5 on chromosome 1(7H) explaining 20% of the phenotypic variation. These data demonstrate the complexity of expression of spot blotch resistance in different populations and have important implications in breeding for durable resistance.
Grass pollen allergy is one of the most important allergic diseases world-wide. Several meadow grasses, like timothy grass and rye grass, contribute to allergic sensitizations, but also allergens from extensively cultivated cereals, especially rye, make a profound contribution. The group 4 allergens are well known as important major allergens of grasses. We have cloned for the first time group 4 sequences from Phleum pratense, Lolium perenne, Secale cereale, Triticum aestivum, and Hordeum vulgare, and investigated the IgE-reactivity of recombinant Phl p 4 as a candidate for allergy diagnostic and therapeutic applications.
Hemoglobin gene expression is upregulated during hypoxia. To determine whether the induction occurs via similar mechanisms that have been proposed for other hypoxically induced proteins, barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) aleurone layers were treated with various agents that interfere with known components of signal transduction. Ruthenium red, an organelle calcium channel blocker, inhibited anoxia-induced hemoglobin (Hb) and alcohol dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.1) (Adh) gene expression in a dose-dependent manner. The divalent ionophore, A23187, combined with EGTA also dramatically reduced anoxia-induced Hb and Adh expression. Normal induction of Hb by anoxia in EGTA-treated cells was restored by adding exogenous Ca2+ but not Mg2+, suggesting that cytosolic calcium is involved in Hb and Adh regulation. W-7, a calmodulin antagonist, did not affect anaerobically induced Hb and Adh expression even though it induced Hb under aerobiosis. A3, a protein kinase inhibitor, did not significantly affect anaerobically induced Hb, but did significantly upregulate the gene under aerobic conditions. The results indicate that calmodulin-independent anaerobic alteration in cytosolic Ca2+ and protein dephosphorylation are factors in Hb induction.
Sugar signalling cascades are important components of regulatory networks in cells. Compared with the situation in bacteria, yeast and animals, participants of the sugar signalling pathways in plants are poorly understood. Several genes involved in starch synthesis are known to be sugar inducible, although the signal transduction pathways remain undisclosed. We reported recently the isolation of SUSIBA2, a transcription factor involved in sugar-mediated regulation of starch synthesis. Here, we used antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) inhibition, a powerful approach in medical sciences, to block the effects of SUSIBA2 in sugar-treated barley leaves. The uptake and intracellular trafficking of an 18-mer susiba2 antisense ODN in leaves were followed by confocal microscopy. Administration of the antisense ODN to the leaves impeded susiba2 expression by RNase H activation. This dramatically diminished the ectopic expression of the iso1 and sbeIIb genes and resulted in altered starch synthesis. This study illustrates the successful exploitation of the antisense ODN technology in plant biology, e.g. as a rapid antecedent to time-consuming transgenic studies, and identifies SUSIBA2 as a transcriptional activator in plant sugar signalling. Based on our findings, we propose a model for sugar-signalling control of starch synthesis.
The paper reports an 'in silico' approach to gene expression analysis based on a barley gene co-expression network resulting from the study of several publicly available cDNA libraries. The work is an application of Systems Biology to plant science: at the end of the computational step we identified groups of potentially related genes. The communities of co-expressed genes constructed from the network are remarkably characterized from the functional point of view, as shown by the statistical analysis of the Gene Ontology annotations of their members. Experimental, lab-based testing has been carried out to check the relationship between network and biological properties and to identify and suggest effective strategies of information extraction from the network-derived data.
Large-scale gene silencing by RNA interference (RNAi) offers the possibility to address gene function in eukaryotic organisms at a depth unprecedented until recently. Although genome-wide RNAi approaches are being carried out in organisms like Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila spp. or human after the corresponding tools had been developed, knock-down of only single or a few genes by RNAi has been reported in plants thus far. Here, we present a method for high-throughput, transient-induced gene silencing (TIGS) by RNAi in barley epidermal cells that is based on biolistic transgene delivery. This method will be useful to address gene function of shoot epidermis resulting in cell-autonomous phenotypes such as resistance or susceptibility to the powdery-mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. Gene function in epidermal cell elongation, stomata regulation, or UV resistance might be addressed as well. Libraries of RNAi constructs can be built up by a new, cost-efficient method that combines highly efficient ligation and recombination by the Gateway cloning system. This method allows cloning of any blunt-ended DNA fragment without the need of adaptor sequences. The final RNAi destination vector was found to direct highly efficient RNAi, as reflected by complete knock-down of a cotransformed green fluorescent protein reporter gene as well as by complete phenolcopy of the recessive loss-of-function mlo resistance gene. By using this method, a role of the t-SNARE protein HvSNAP34 in three types of durable, race-nonspecific resistance was observed.
A very large number of plant species are capable of forming symbiotic associations with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. The roots of these plants are potentially capable of absorbing P from the soil solution both directly through root epidermis and root hairs, and via the AM fungal pathway that delivers P to the root cortex. A large number of phosphate (P) transporters have been identified in plants; tissue expression patterns and kinetic information supports the roles of some of these in the direct root uptake pathways. Recent work has identified additional P transporters in several unrelated species that are strongly induced, sometimes specifically, in AM roots. The primary aim of the work described in this paper was to determine how mycorrhizal colonisation by different species of AM fungi influenced the expression of members of the Pht1 gene families in the cereals Hordeum vulgare (barley), Triticum aestivum (wheat) and Zea mays (maize). RT-PCR and in-situ hybridisation, showed that the transporters HORvu;Pht1;8 (AY187023), TRIae;Pht1;myc (AJ830009) and ZEAma;Pht1;6 (AJ830010), had increased expression in roots colonised by the AM fungi Glomus intraradices,Glomus sp. WFVAM23 and Scutellospora calospora. These findings add to the increasing body of evidence indicating that plants that form AM associations with members of the Glomeromycota have evolved phosphate transporters that are either specifically or preferentially involved in scavenging phosphate from the apoplast between intracellular AM structures and root cortical cells. Operation of mycorrhiza-inducible P transporters in the AM P uptake pathway appears, at least partially, to replace uptake via different P transporters located in root epidermis and root hairs.
Small RAC/ROP-family G proteins regulate development and stress responses in plants. Transient overexpression and RNA interference experiments suggested that the barley (Hordeum vulgare) RAC/ROP protein RACB is involved in susceptibility to the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. We created transgenic barley plants expressing the constitutively activated RACB mutant racb-G15V under control of the maize (Zea mays) ubiquitin 1 promoter. Individuals of the T1 generation expressing racb-G15V were significantly more susceptible to B. graminis when compared to segregating individuals that did not express racb-G15V. Additionally, racb-G15V-expressing plants showed delayed shoot development from the third leaf stage on, downward rolled leaves, and stunted roots. Expression of racb-G15V decreased photosynthetic CO(2)-assimilation rates and transpiration of nonstressed leaves. In contrast, racb-G15V-expressing barley leaves, when detached from water supply, showed increased water loss and enhanced transpiration. Water loss was associated with reduced responsiveness to abscisic acid in regard to transpiration when compared to segregants not expressing racb-G15V. Hence, RACB might be a common signaling element in response to both biotic and abiotic stress.
Multiple synonymous substitution mutations in the Wheat streak mosaic virus P3 cistron did not affect translation in vitro but rendered the virus incapable of systemic infection. Multiple synonymous substitutions in the cylindrical inclusion cistron did not alter infectivity or in vitro translation. To assess replication and movement phenotypes, P3 mutations were placed in context with a GUS reporter gene. GUS activity measured in barley protoplasts 36 h post-transfection indicated that mutants with synonymous substitutions in P3 retained the ability to replicate at 22-80 % of wild-type levels. Almost no GUS activity was detected in protoplasts transfected with a P3 frame-shift mutant. Histochemical GUS assays conducted 3 days post-inoculation (p.i.) revealed genomes with multiple synonymous substitutions in P3, which were able to establish infection foci limited to small clusters of cells that increased in size only slightly by 5 days p.i. Infection foci produced by wild-type Wheat streak mosaic virus-expressing GUS were much larger at 3 days p.i. and had coalesced by 5 days p.i. No GUS activity was detected in plants inoculated with the frame-shift mutant bearing GUS. Three of four mutants, each with a single synonymous substitution in the 3'-proximal half of the P3 cistron, were wild-type with respect to systemic infectivity. A model RNA secondary structure obtained for the region was disrupted by the debilitating single mutation but not by the other three single mutations. Collectively, these results identify an internal RNA sequence element in the P3 cistron that affects both replication and movement of the viral genome.
We successfully implemented virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) in barley (Hordeum vulgare) for the functional characterization of genes required for Mla13-mediated resistance toward the biotrophic barley pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. Initially, barley cultivars were screened for their ability to host the barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV)-VIGS vector by allowing its replication and systemic movement without causing excessive symptoms. Phytoene desaturase silencing leading to photobleaching was used as a phenotypic marker alongside reverse transcription-PCR data to characterize the silencing response at the molecular level. Barley cultivar Clansman, harboring the Mla13 resistance gene, was chosen as the most suitable host for BSMV-VIGS-based functional characterization of Rar1, Sgt1, and Hsp90 in the Mla-mediated resistance toward powdery mildew. BSMV-induced gene silencing of these candidate genes, which are associated in many but not all race-specific pathways, proved to be robust and could be detected at both mRNA and protein levels for up to 21 d postinoculation. Systemic silencing was observed not only in the newly developed leaves from the main stem but also in axillary shoots. By examining fungal development from an incompatible mildew strain carrying the cognate Avr13 gene on plants BSMV silenced for Rar1, Sgt1, and Hsp90, a resistance-breaking phenotype was observed, while plants infected with BSMV control constructs remained resistant. We demonstrate that Hsp90 is a required component for Mla13-mediated race-specific resistance and that BSMV-induced VIGS is a powerful tool to characterize genes involved in pathogen resistance in barley.
Leaf senescence is characterized by nitrogen remobilization to developing seeds of annual plants, or surviving organs of perennial species. It has been demonstrated that high carbohydrate levels (carbon "feast") are associated with the onset of the senescence process. Therefore, the development of model systems allowing the manipulation of leaf carbohydrates constitutes a logical first step in the investigation of processes important during early phases of senescence, such as plastidial protein degradation. In this study, sugar accumulation was induced either by the incubation of excised, mature barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) leaves under relatively strong light, or by the interruption of sieve tubes at the base of the leaf lamina by "steam-girdling". Accelerated chlorophyll degradation and net proteolysis confirmed successful senescence induction in both model systems, but suggested that girdled leaves are more useful than excised leaves to study proteolysis. Activities or transcript levels of several proteolytic enzymes, including plastidial (aminopeptidases, Clp protease), cytosolic (proteasome) and vacuolar (thiol proteases, an aspartic protease and a serine carboxypeptidase) proteases were clearly induced under these conditions; some of these genes also reacted to other stimuli such as leaf excision. The most interesting finding was the specific induction of a carboxypeptidase gene (cp-mIII) in girdled leaves accumulating high carbohydrate levels. As a previous study from our laboratory, using a genetic approach, has indicated that one or several carboxypeptidases are involved in leaf N remobilization, the detailed characterization of cp-mIII (and, possibly, closely related genes) may considerably improve our understanding of whole-plant N recycling.
Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is an important tool for the analysis of gene function in plants. In VIGS, viruses engineered to carry sequences derived from plant gene transcripts activate the host's sequence-specific RNA degradation system. This mechanism targets the RNAs of the viral genome for degradation, and as the virus contains transcribed plant sequence, homologous host mRNAs are also targeted for destruction. While routinely used in some dicots, no VIGS system was known for monocot plants until the recent report of silencing in barley (Hordeum vulgare) by barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV). Here, we report development of protocols for use of BSMV to efficiently silence genes in hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum). The VIGS system was first optimized in studies silencing phytoene desaturase expression. Next, we used it to assay genes functioning in leaf rust resistance mediated by Lr21, which encodes a nucleotide binding site-leucine-rich repeat class resistance gene product. We demonstrated that infection with BSMV constructs carrying a 150-bp fragment of Lr21 caused conversion of incompatible interactions to compatible, whereas infection with a control construct or one that silences phytoene desaturase had no effect on resistance or susceptibility. Additionally, silencing the RAR1, SGT1, and HSP90 genes, known to be required in many but not all nucleotide binding site-leucine-rich repeat resistance pathways in diverse plant species, resulted in conversion to compatibility, indicating that these genes are essential in Lr21-mediated resistance. These studies indicate that BSMV-VIGS is a powerful tool for dissecting the genetic pathways of disease resistance in hexaploid wheat.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) (EC 2.5.1.18) are multifunctional proteins involved in such diverse intracellular events as primary and secondary metabolism, signaling and stress metabolism. In this study, we found a senescence-induced tau-class GST (SIGST) in senescent leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). The SIGST was purified 19-fold to homogeneity from initial crude extracts by three steps of chromatography with a yield of 5%. The purified SIGST had a GSH-conjugating activity and peroxidase (POD) activity at the same level of 1.7 micromol min(-1) mg protein(-1), although restricted substrate selectivity could be seen in POD activity. Barley SIGST is a slightly acidic protein with a molecular weight of 49 k and is composed of two subunits. The enzyme exhibited a single pH optimum at pH 8.3. The K(m) values were 0.285 mM for GSH and 0.293 mM for 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene. In most respects, the barley enzyme resembles those that have been reported from other higher plants. The SIGST gene was cloned from cDNA of senescent barley leaves. DNA sequence analysis shows that the cloned SIGST had only one base different from the barley embryo GST, ECGST. The obtained sequence indicates that SIGST is classified into the plant-specific tau class. mRNA expression analysis showed that in addition to senescence, SIGST was strongly induced by treatment with a herbicide and low temperature. The responses to these stresses suggest that SIGST may be involved at least partly in the secondary metabolism as an antioxidant and enhancement of enzymatic activity during senescence.
The 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPD) is the only enzyme of the biosynthetic pathway of tocopherols and tocotrienols localized outside of plastids. In order to investigate whether a plastid localized HPD could give rise to an increase in tocopherol levels of tobacco leaves and seeds, in the present study the HPD enzyme was transferred to the plastid by introducing a cDNA specific for the barley hpd gene into the plastome of tobacco. The expression of the hpd gene expression cassette was demonstrated by accumulation of the hpd gene-specific transcript and by a higher resistance of the transgenic seedlings towards the HPD specific inhibitor sulcotrione. The alpha-tocopherol content was increased in leaves of the transplastomic plants, whereas the transplastomic seeds contained a significantly increased gamma-tocochromanol level. With respect to enhanced accumulation of the tocopherol content in plants tissue, overexpression of the hpd gene in plastids did not prove to be advantageous in comparison to transgenic plants expressing high HPD level in the cytoplasm. It is hypothesized that homogentisate synthesized in plastids will have to pass the envelope membrane in order to be accessible to the following enzymes of the tocopherol biosynthetic pathway.
Survival in natural bulk soil and colonization of sugar beet seeds and barley straw residues were determined for Pseudomonas sp. strain DSS73 and Tn5 mutants in amsY (encoding a peptide synthetase involved in production of the cyclic lipopeptide amphisin) and gacS (encoding the sensory kinase of the two-component GacA/GacS regulatory system). No differences in survival or growth in response to carbon amendment (citrate) were observed in bulk soil. However, both mutants were impaired in their colonization of sugar beet seeds and barley straw residues by an inoculum established in the bulk soil. The two mutants had comparable colonization phenotypes, suggesting that amphisin production is more important for colonization than other gacS-controlled traits.
Many developmental and environmental signals are transduced through changes in intracellular calcium concentrations, yet only a few calcium-binding proteins have been identified in plants. Calcineurin B-like (CBL) proteins are calcium-binding proteins that are thought to function as plant signal transduction elements. RNA profiling using a rice (Oryza sativa cv Nipponbare) oligonucleotide microarray was used to monitor gene expression in de-embryonated rice grains. This analysis showed that a putative rice CBL gene responded to gibberellic acid, but not abscisic acid, treatment. The CBL gene family in rice contains at least 10 genes and these have extensive similarity to the CBLs of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). In yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) two-hybrid assays, rice CBLs interact with the kinase partners of Arabidopsis CBLs. Only one rice CBL gene, OsCBL2, is up-regulated by GA in the aleurone layer. A homolog with 91% sequence identity to OsCBL2 was cloned from barley (Hordeum vulgare cv Himalaya), and designated HvCBL2. We examined the localization and function of OsCBL2 and HvCBL2 in rice and barley aleurone because changes in cytosolic calcium have been implicated in the response of the aleurone cell to GA. Green fluorescent protein translational fusions of OsCBL2 and OsCBL3 were localized to the tonoplast of aleurone cell protein storage vacuoles and OsCBL4-green fluorescent protein was localized to the plasma membrane. Data from experiments using antisense expression of OsCBL2 and HvCBL2 are consistent with a role for OsCBL2 in promoting vacuolation of barley aleurone cells following treatment with GA.
A probe-level model for analysis of GeneChip gene-expression data is presented which identified more than 10,000 single-feature polymorphisms (SFP) between two barley genotypes. The method has good sensitivity, as 67% of known single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) were called as SFPs. This method is applicable to all oligonucleotide microarray data, accounts for SNP effects in gene-expression data and represents an efficient and versatile approach for highly parallel marker identification in large genomes.
The majority of European spring barley cultivars have broad-spectrum powdery mildew resistance conditioned by a naturally occurring recessive resistance allele at the Mlo locus that originates from Ethiopian landraces. A recent publication by Pietro Piffanelli et al. describes an unusual amplification of gene segments upstream of the Mlo promoter that probably interferes with transcription and is responsible for gene inactivation. Their findings provide insights into the breeding events during the domestication of wild barley.
Pathogenesis-related proteins (PR), including beta-1,3-glucanases may provide the first line of defense against fungal pathogens. Many PR proteins are activated by salicylic acid (SA), which acts as an endogenous signal. We have previously isolated seven members of the beta-1,3-glucanase gene family in barley (Hordeum vulgare). In this paper, we characterized the beta-1,3-glucanase isoenzyme GIII for SA-responsive elements in the GIII gene promoter. A series of deletion mutations of the promoter were fused to the reporter gene beta-glucuronidase (gus). The GUS activity was analyzed in rice calli (Oryza sativa L.) in response to SA. A deletion fragment between -362 and +106 bp showed the highest level of GUS activity in these assays. This promoter fused with gus was further introduced into rice plants for stable transformation. Histochemical staining and fluorometric quantitation of GUS activity in leaves of transgenic plants revealed prominent GUS expression after SA induction. RNA analysis by Northern blotting confirmed the importance of this region, indicating that cis-acting elements required for SA-inducible expression exist within 362 bp upstream from the transcriptional start site.
The DOF protein, SAD, previously shown to be a transcriptional activator in barley aleurone cells upon seed germination, also has an important role in gene regulation during endosperm development. mRNA was detected in early (10 days after flowering) developing barley seeds where it accumulated in the starchy endosperm, aleurone cells, nucellar projection, vascular tissues and the immature embryo, as shown by RT-PCR and in situ hybridization analyses. The SAD protein, expressed in bacteria, binds to oligonucleotides containing the prolamine box, 5'-A/TAAAG-3'sequence, derived from the promoter regions of the endosperm-specific genes Hor2 and Itr1, encoding a B-hordein and trypsin-inhibitor BTI-CMe, respectively. SAD competed for the same binding sites with another endosperm-expressed DOF protein, BPBF. Transient expression experiments in co-bombarded developing endosperms demonstrated that SAD trans-activated transcription from Hor2 and Itr1 promoters through binding to the intact DOF motifs. When the two DOF factors are co-bombarded together an additive effect was observed upon the expression of the Itr1 gene. In-frame fusion of the Sad ORF to the reporter green fluorescent protein gene directs the fluorescence expression to the nucleus in transiently transformed onion epidermal layers. The visualization of fluorescence in the nucleus of onion cells, using the bimolecular fluorescent complex (BiFC) approach, has shown the in vivo interaction between SAD and the R2R3MYB protein GAMYB. The interaction in plant cells has also been documented for the DOF protein BPBF and GAMYB, but nuclear interaction could not be detected between BPBF and SAD by this procedure.
The fungus Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, is a major pathogen of rice and is capable of producing epidemics on other cultivated cereals, including barley (Hordeum vulgare). We explored the requirements for basal resistance of barley against a compatible M. grisea isolate using both genetic and chemical approaches. Mutants of the RAR1 gene required for the function of major resistance gene-mediated resistance and mutants of the ROR1 and ROR2 genes required for full expression of cell-wall-penetration resistance against powdery mildew pathogens were examined for macroscopic and microscopic alterations in M. grisea growth and symptoms. RAR1 contributed to resistance in epidermis and mesophyll at different stages of fungal infection dependent on the MLO/mlo-5 status. Whereas no ROR2 effect was detected, ROR1 was found to contribute to cell-wall-penetration resistance, at least in the epidermis. Application of the actin agonist cytochalasin E promoted cell wall penetration by M. grisea in a dose-dependent manner, demonstrating an involvement of the actin cytoskeleton in penetration resistance.
The cDNA and genomic DNA of a green tissue-specific gene were cloned from maize (Zea mays L.) using cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism (cDNA-AFLP) and library screening. The deduced protein was highly similar to Hordeum vulgare germin-like protein 1 (HvGLP1), and the maize gene was therefore designated Zmglp1. Northern blot specifically detected the mRNA of Zmglp1 in young whorl leaves at the early-whorl stage. However, at the late-whorl, tassel, and silk stages, Zmglp1 transcripts were highly abundant in young whorl leaves; less abundant in mature leaves, young tassels, and cobs; and not detectable in roots, immature kernels, and stalks. RNA in situ hybridization revealed that Zmglp1 expressed only in mesophyllous, phloem, and guard cells in the young whorl leaves. Deletion analysis of the promoter in transgenic Arabidopsis resulted in the identification of several regions containing important regulatory cis-elements controlling the expression levels and circadian rhythm-oscillated patterns of Zmglp1.
UDP-D-glucuronate decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.35) catalyzes the synthesis of UDP-D-xylose from UDP-D-glucuronate in an essentially irreversible reaction that is believed to commit glycosyl residues to heteroxylan and xyloglucan biosynthesis. Four members of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) UDP-D-glucuronate decarboxylase gene family, designated HvUXS1 to HvUXS4, have been cloned and characterized. Barley HvUXS1 appears to be a cytosolic enzyme, while the others are predicted to be membrane-bound proteins with single transmembrane helices. Heterologous expression of a barley HvUXS1 cDNA in Escherichia coli yields a soluble enzyme that converts UDP-d-glucuronate to UDP-D-xylose, is associated with a single molecule of bound NAD+, and is subject to feedback inhibition by UDP-D-xylose. Quantitative PCR shows that the HvUXS1 mRNA is most abundant among the 4 HvUXS genes, accounting for more than 80% of total HvUXS transcripts in most of the tissues examined. The abundance of HvUXS1 mRNA is 10-fold higher in mature roots and stems than in leaves, developing grains, or floral tissues. Transcriptional activities of HvUXS2 and HvUXS4 genes are relatively high in mature roots, coleoptiles, and stems compared with root tips, leaves, and floral tissues, while HvUXS3 mRNA is low in all tissues. In barley leaf sections, levels of the most abundant mRNA, encoding HvUXS1, reflect the amount of soluble enzymic protein and activity. In selected tissues where HvUXS1 transcript levels are high, cell walls have higher arabinoxylan contents.
Plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) plays important roles in dormancy and stress responses, but its binding sites have not yet been fully elucidated. In this report, we suggest the utility of biotin-labeled abscisic acid (bioABA) as a probe to investigate ABA-binding sites on the plasma membrane of barley aleurone protoplasts. BioABA was approximately 100 times less effective than ABA in inhibiting expression of gibberellin-inducible alpha-amylase and in inducing expression of a reporter gene fused to the dehydrin promoter. To ascertain that bioABA could bind to ABA-binding sites on the plasma membrane, we used fluorescence flow cytometry to measure the fluorescence intensity of aleurone protoplasts treated with a combination of bioABA and fluorescence-labeled streptavidin. Addition of bioABA increased the fluorescence of aleurone protoplasts in a concentration-dependent manner, but addition of non-active bioABA derivatives did not. Furthermore, the increase in fluorescence intensity observed upon addition of bioABA was eliminated by co-treatment with excess ABA, but it was not eliminated by co-treatment with other plant hormones. These results suggest that bioABA binds to ABA-binding sites, and that bioABA should be a valuable probe for investigating ABA-binding sites on the plasma membrane.
A promoter of the gene encoding beta-1, 3-glucanase isoenzyme GIII was amplified from barley genomic DNA using PCR. The GIII gene promoter, designated P(GIII), was ligated upstream of the gus report gene and pGIII-gus fusion fragment was then cloned into a binary vector pCAMBIA1300 for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Taipei 309). PCR analyses indicated that the fusion gene was present in all T0 transgenic plants. The integration of the gene into rice genomic DNA was further confirmed by Southern blot. Histochemical staining and spectrofluorophotometric analyses of transgenic rice leaves showed that the GUS activity was increased after treatment with SA and fungal elicitor. Northern blot analysis also showed expression of such induction. Histochemical staining of T(1) rice seeds displayed marked GUS activity after induction with SA and elicitor, while no GUS activity was detected in untreated T(1) rice seeds. The results presented here strongly suggested that P(GIII) could be pathogen-inducible promoter.
Cell wall polysaccharides in developing barley coleoptiles were examined using acetic acid-nitric acid extraction, alditol acetate and methylation analyses and enzymatic digestion. The coleoptile cell wall from imbibed grain was rich in pectic polysaccharides (30 mol%), arabinoxylan (25 mol%), cellulose (25 mol%) and xyloglucan (6 mol%), but contained only low levels of (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-D-glucan (1 mol%). During 5 days of coleoptile growth, pectic polysaccharides decreased steadily to about 9 mol%, while (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-D-glucan increased to 10 mol%. Following the cessation of growth of the coleoptiles at about 5 days, (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-D-glucan content rapidly decreased to 1 mol%. The cellulose content of the walls remained at about 35-40 mol% throughout coleoptile growth. Similarly, arabinoxylan content remained essentially constant at 25-30 mol% during growth, although the ratio of substituted to unsubstituted 4-linked xylosyl units decreased from about 4:1 to 1:1. Xyloglucan content ranged from 6 mol% to 10 mol% and the oligosaccharide profile determined using a xyloglucan-specific endoglucanase and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry indicated that the oligosaccharides XXGG and XXGGG were the principal components, with one and two acetyl groups, respectively, Thus, dramatic changes in wall composition were detected during the growth of barley coleoptiles, both with respect to the relative abundance of individual wall constituents and to the fine structure of the arabinoxylans.
Protein reserves in the cereal endosperm are sequentially degraded to small peptides and amino acids during germination and these are translocated across the scutellum to support growth of the embryo. Peptide transport in the germinating barley grain is mediated by specific carriers localized to the plasma membrane of the scutellar epithelium. In isolated barley embryos peptide transport is rapidly inhibited by amino acid concentrations comparable with those found in the post-germination barley grain. However, this inhibition of HvPTR1 activity is not effected at either the transcriptional or translational level. The protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid repressed transport of Ala-[14C]Phe, but not [14C]Ala, into the barley scutellar epithelium. In vivo [32P]orthophosphate labelling studies of barley scutellar tissue in combination with immunoprecipitation studies using antiserum raised to HvPTR1 showed that HvPTR1 (66 kDa) is phosphorylated in the presence of amino acids. Immunopurified HvPTR1 was further demonstrated to be phosphorylated on serine residues. Digestion with the N-glycosidase enzyme PNGase F results in a shift in the molecular mass of the protein by 10 kDa, indicating that HvPTR1 is an N-linked glycoprotein. These results provide strong circumstantial evidence that HvPTR1 peptide transport activity in the germinating barley grain is regulated at the post-translational level by phosphorylation in response to rising levels of amino acids emanating from the endosperm as a result of storage protein breakdown and mobilization. This is potentially an important element in balancing the flux of organic nitrogen and carbon from the endosperm to embryo during germination and seedling establishment.
The search for a cereal promoter capable of driving preferential transgene expression in the pericarp epidermis (epicarp) of developing barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) resulted in the cloning of a novel gene. This encoded a polypeptide of 124 amino acids showing 87 identity with WBP1A, a wheat lipid transfer protein (LTP), but much lower homology to other barley LTPs. In addition to the epicarp, this Ltp-like gene, Ltp6, is highly expressed in coleoptiles and embryos under normal growth conditions. Messenger RNA levels increased in seedling tissues during salt and cold treatments and under applied abscisic acid (ABA) and salicylic acid (SA). Taken together, Ltp6 tissue-specific and response patterns are distinct from other known barley Ltp genes. Inverse PCR was used to derive 2345 bp of upstream Ltp6 sequence. The level of transcription conferred by different promoter deletion constructs was assessed by quantitative real time RT-PCR using gfp as a reporter in transient expression assays. All constructs containing at least 192 bp of upstream sequence and the 5'UTR conferred tissue-specific expression and retained most of the promoter strength. Deletion of 64 bp (-192/-128) from this upstream sequence reduced expression levels by 80. Moreover, a minimal 247 bp Ltp6 promoter continuously drove gfp expression during spike development, from early ovary differentiation through its final expression in the epicarp and during embryogenesis and germination in transgenic barley, reproducing the expression pattern of the native gene. The potential use of this promoter sequence for targeting transgene-mediated disease resistance in barley and wheat is discussed.
The barley bZIP transcription factor HvABI5 mediates abscisic acid (ABA)-upregulated gene expression in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seeds. HvABI5 specifically recognizes cis-elements of the ABA response complexes present in the promoters of the ABA-induced genes HVA1 and HVA22. HvABI5 together with another transcription factor, HvVP1, are required for the transactivation of these promoters, and this transactivation process is insensitive to the negative regulator abi1-1. The expression of HvABI5 itself appeared to be induced by ABA and can be suppressed by abi1-1. Gain- and loss-of-function studies in barley aleurone cells show that HvABI5 expression is positively regulated by a feed-forward circuit that involves HvABI5 itself and HvVP1. Mutation of the Ser residue in HvABI5, which has been shown to be phosphorylated in an ABA-dependent manner in the rice orthologue of HvABI5, reduces the transactivation activity of the factor by 50%. Although levels of HvABI5 and its transcript are enhanced by ABA treatment, the nuclear localization of HvABI5 is not affected by ABA. A model based on these observations is presented to explain the ABA upregulation of gene expression.
The red pigmentation of Fusarium graminearum and related species that cause stem and head blight of cereals is due to the deposition of aurofusarin in the cell walls. To determine the importance of this polyketide for fungal physiology and pathogenicity, aurofusarin deficient mutants were produced by random and targeted mutagenesis of F. pseudograminearum and F. graminearum. We show that a gene cluster, including the F. graminearum PKS12 gene, is responsible for the biosynthesis of aurofusarin. Three F. pseudograminearum aurofusarin deficient mutants were disrupted in a region upstream from a gene with sequence homology to the aflatoxin regulatory gene aflR. Comparative PCR analyses of the aurofusarin gene cluster in F. graminearum, F. culmorum, and F. pseudograminearum show conserved organization and expression analyses detected no PKS12 transcripts in any of the mutants. To confirm that PKS12 encodes the precursor for aurofusarin, targeted mutagenesis was carried out in F. graminearum. All disruptants showed an albino phenotype. The DeltaPKS12 mutants have higher growth rate and a 10-fold increase in conidia production compared to the wild type. Aurofusarin does not appear to aid in radiation protection and all the mutants are fully pathogenic on wheat and barley. HPLC analyses of aurofusarin deficient mutants confirm the absence of aurofusarin and show an increase in the level of the mycotoxin zearalenone.
Sclerotinia minor Jagger is the causal agent of Sclerotinia blight, a highly destructive disease of peanut (Arachis hypogaea). Based on evidence that oxalic acid is involved in the pathogenicity of many Sclerotinia species, our objectives were to recover transgenic peanut plants expressing an oxalic acid-degrading oxalate oxidase and to evaluate them for increased resistance to S. minor. Transformed plants were regenerated from embryogenic cultures of three Virginia peanut cultivars (Wilson, Perry, and NC-7). A colorimetric enzyme assay was used to screen for oxalate oxidase activity in leaf tissue. Candidate plants with a range of expression levels were chosen for further analysis. Integration of the transgene was confirmed by Southern-blot analysis, and gene expression was demonstrated in transformants by northern-blot analysis. A sensitive fluorescent enzyme assay was used to quantify expression levels for comparison to the colorimetric protocol. A detached leaflet assay tested whether transgene expression could limit lesion size resulting from direct application of oxalic acid. Lesion size was significantly reduced in transgenic plants compared to nontransformed controls (65%-89% reduction at high oxalic acid concentrations). A second bioassay examined lesion size after inoculation of leaflets with S. minor mycelia. Lesion size was reduced by 75% to 97% in transformed plants, providing evidence that oxalate oxidase can confer enhanced resistance to Sclerotinia blight in peanut.
Two barley transformation systems, Agrobacterium-mediated and particle bombardment, were compared in terms of transformation efficiency, transgene copy number, expression, inheritance and physical structure of the transgenic loci using fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH). The efficiency of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation was double that obtained with particle bombardment. While 100% of the Agrobacterium-derived lines integrated between one and three copies of the transgene, 60% of the transgenic lines derived by particle bombardment integrated more than eight copies of the transgene. In most of the Agrobacterium-derived lines, the integrated T-DNA was stable and inherited as a simple Mendelian trait. Transgene silencing was frequently observed in the T1 populations of the bombardment-derived lines. The FISH technique was able to reveal additional details of the transgene integration site. For the efficient production of transgenic barley plants, with stable transgene expression and reduced silencing, the Agrobacterium-mediated method appears to offer significant advantages over particle bombardment.
The functions of the vast majority of genes encoding R2R3 MYB domain proteins remain unknown. The closely related MYB33 and MYB65 genes of Arabidopsis thaliana have high sequence similarity to the barley (Hordeum vulgare) GAMYB gene. T-DNA insertional mutants were isolated for both genes, and a myb33 myb65 double mutant was defective in anther development. In myb33 myb65 anthers, the tapetum undergoes hypertrophy at the pollen mother cell stage, resulting in premeiotic abortion of pollen development. However, myb33 myb65 sterility was conditional, where fertility increased both under higher light or lower temperature conditions. Thus, MYB33/MYB65 facilitate, but are not essential for, anther development. Neither single mutant displayed a phenotype, implying that MYB33 and MYB65 are functionally redundant. Consistent with functional redundancy, promoter-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) fusions of MYB33 and MYB65 gave identical expression patterns in flowers (sepals, style, receptacle, anther filaments, and connective but not in anthers themselves), shoot apices, and root tips. By contrast, expression of a MYB33:GUS translational fusion in flowers was solely in young anthers (consistent with the male sterile phenotype), and no staining was seen in shoot meristems or root tips. A microRNA target sequence is present in the MYB genes, and mutating this sequence in the MYB33:GUS fusion results in an expanded expression pattern, in tissues similar to that observed in the promoter-GUS lines, implying that the microRNA target sequence is restricting MYB33 expression. Arabidopsis transformed with MYB33 containing the mutated microRNA target had dramatic pleiotrophic developmental defects, suggesting that restricting MYB33 expression, especially in the shoot apices, is essential for proper plant development.
Earlier comparative maps between the genomes of rice (Oryza sativa L.), barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) were linkage maps based on cDNA-RFLP markers. The low number of polymorphic RFLP markers has limited the development of dense genetic maps in wheat and the number of available anchor points in comparative maps. Higher density comparative maps using PCR-based anchor markers are necessary to better estimate the conservation of colinearity among cereal genomes. The purposes of this study were to characterize the proportion of transcribed DNA sequences containing simple sequence repeats (SSR or microsatellites) by length and motif for wheat, barley and rice and to determine in-silico rice genome locations for primer sets developed for wheat and barley Expressed Sequence Tags. The proportions of SSR types (di-, tri-, tetra-, and penta-nucleotide repeats) and motifs varied with the length of the SSRs within and among the three species, with trinucleotide SSRs being the most frequent. Distributions of genomic microsatellites (gSSRs), EST-derived microsatellites (EST-SSRs), and transcribed regions in the contiguous sequence of rice chromosome 1 were highly correlated. More than 13,000 primer pairs were developed for use by the cereal research community as potential markers in wheat, barley and rice. Trinucleotide SSRs were the most common type in each of the species; however, the relative proportions of SSR types and motifs differed among rice, wheat, and barley. Genomic microsatellites were found to be primarily located in gene-rich regions of the rice genome. Microsatellite markers derived from the use of non-redundant EST-SSRs are an economic and efficient alternative to RFLP for comparative mapping in cereals.
High-density cDNA microarrays (2,027 unigenes) were used to analyze transcript profiles of the plant-pathogenic fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei throughout its asexual life cycle and development of infection. RNA was obtained from four stages preceding penetration and four stages after penetration of the host cells. The microarray data was validated by comparing the expression of a plasma membrane H+-ATPase and fructose-1,6-bis phosphatase with the data obtained from a quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay. The results showed that there was a global switch in expression between the pre- and postpenetrative stages. This was largely due to accumulation of RNA encoding protein biosynthesis genes in the late stages. Other functional clusters, such as virulence-related genes and sterol metabolism genes, are up-regulated in pre- and postpenetration stages, respectively. A group of RNAs whose abundance correlated with the expression of cap20, a gene known to be required for virulence in Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, identified genes that are strong candidates for pathogenicity factors in B. graminis.
A cDNA library containing approximately 5,000 clones from germinating barley embryos was constructed and used to examine the variation in gene expression patterns during the first 4 days postimbibition. The expression profiles of embryos (including scutellum) from 4 to 96 h postimbibition were compared to a reference profile from 24 h postimbibition using microarray analysis. A subset of clones exhibiting tenfold or greater differential expression patterns was sequenced to elucidate function. All of the sequenced clones could be identified to at least EST level with 64% exhibiting homology to published protein sequences. Almost 95% of the library exhibited similar expression levels at the 4 h time point as at the 24 h reference point. From 24 to 96 h, however, considerable fluctuations in gene expression occurred. The observed patterns of gene expression for the classified genes are consistent with the expected genetic changes required to prepare an embryo for germinative development. A replicate set of clones for the 23-kDa jasmonate-induced protein was identified. The current data not only provides conclusive evidence for the expression patterns of this abundant stress-response protein in germinating embryos, but also serves to validate previous research into JIP-23 isoforms, function and the relationship between timing of mRNA upregulation and protein abundance.
A number of methods are currently used for gene expression profiling. They differ in scale, economy and sensitivity. We present the results of a direct comparison between serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) and the Barley1 Affymetrix GeneChip. Both technology platforms were used to obtain quantitative measurements of transcript abundance using identical RNA samples and assessed for their ability to quantify differential gene expression. For SAGE, a total of 82,122 tags were generated from two independent libraries representing whole developing barley caryopsis and dissected embryos. The Barley1 GeneChip contains 22,791 probe sets. Results obtained from both methods are generally comparable, indicating that both will lead to similar conclusions regarding transcript levels and differential gene expression. However, excluding singletons, 24.4% of the unique SAGE tags had no corresponding probe set on the Barley1 array indicating that a broader snapshot of gene expression was obtained by SAGE. Discrepancies were observed for a number of "genes" and these are discussed.
Dehydrins (DHNs) compose a family of intrinsically unstructured proteins that have high water solubility and accumulate during late seed development, low temperature or water deficit conditions, and are thought to play a protective role in freezing and drought tolerance in plants. Twelve Dhn genes were previously described in the barley genome. Here, we report an additional member of this multigene family, Dhn13. The Dhn13 gene is located in chromosome 4 near marker MWG634 and encodes a 107-amino acid KS-type DHN. Semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR data indicated that Dhn13 is constitutively expressed in seedling tissues and embryos of developing seeds. Microarray data were consistent with these results and showed a considerable increase of Dhn13 transcripts when plants were subjected to chilling and freezing temperatures. The highest transcript levels where observed in anthers. The presence of ABRE, MYC, DRE, and POLLEN1LELAT52 regulatory elements in the putative Dhn13 promoter region is in agreement with expression data.
Two full-length cDNA sequences homologous to caleosin, a seed-storage oil-body protein from sesame, were identified from a series of barley grain development cDNA libraries and further characterised. The cDNAs, subsequently termed HvClo1 and HvClo2, encode proteins of 34 kDa and 28 kDa, respectively. Real-time RT-PCR indicated that HvClo1 is expressed abundantly during the later stages of embryogenesis and is seed-specific, accumulating in the scutellum of mature embryos. HvClo2 is expressed mainly in the endosperm tissues of the developing grain. We show that HvClo1 and HvClo2 are paralogs that co-segregate on barley chromosome 2HL. Transient expression of HvClo1 in lipid storage and non-storage cells of barley using biolistic particle bombardment indicates that caleosins have different subcellular locations from the structural oil-body protein oleosin, and by inference participate in different sorting pathways. We observe that caleosin sorts via small vesicles, suggesting a likely association with lipid trafficking, membrane expansion and oil-body biogenesis.
Chymotrypsin inhibitor CI-2 is a small (84 residue) barley seed protein that has been used extensively to study protein folding. It also contains eight lysine residues, making it an attractive target for expression in transgenic plants to increase their lysine contents. We have designed three lysine-enriched forms of CI-2 and compared their structures and properties with that of the wild type protein. One mutant containing three additional lysine residues in the inhibitory loop shows high stability to denaturation and reduced inhibitory activity, indicating its suitability for use in genetic engineering.
Barley cDNA and genomic clones homologous to the Arabidopsis flowering time regulator GIGANTEA were isolated. Genetic mapping showed that GIGANTEA is present as a single copy gene in barley (3HS) and rice (1S), while two copies are present in maize (3S and 8S) at locations consistent with previous comparative mapping studies. Comparison of the barley peptide with rice and Arabidopsis gave 94% and 79% similarity, respectively. Northern and semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis of the barley gene (HvGI) showed the presence of a single mRNA species, with a peak of expression between 6 h and 9 h after dawn in short days (8 h light) and a peak 15 h after dawn in long days (16 h light). This behaviour is similar to that seen in Arabidopsis and rice, showing that sequence and expression pattern were well conserved. A lack of correspondence with the map positions of QTL affecting flowering time (heading date) suggests that variation at HvGI does not provide a major source of adaptive variation in photoperiod response.
Following the screening of a suppression subtractive library developed from durum wheat plants exposed to low temperature for 6 h, two early cold-regulated (e-cor) genes have been isolated. These genes, coding putatively for a ribokinase (7H8) and a C3H2C3 RING-finger protein (6G2), were characterized by the stress-induced retention of a subset of introns in the mature mRNA. This feature was dependent on cold for 7H8 and on cold and dehydration for 6G2. When other genes, such as the stress-related gene WCOR410c, coding for a dehydrin (one intron), or a gene coding for a putative ATP binding cassette transporter (16 introns) were analyzed, no cold-dependent intron retention was observed. Cold-induced intron retention was not observed in mutants defective in the chloroplast development; nevertheless treatment with cycloheximide in the absence of cold was able to promote intron retention for the 7H8 e-cor gene. These results suggest that the cold-induced intron retention reflects the response of the spliceosoma to specific environmental signals transduced to the splicing protein factors through a chloroplast-dependent pathway. Notably, when the 7H8 Arabidopsis orthologous gene was analyzed, no stress induction in terms of mRNA abundance and no cold-dependent intron retention was detected. Otherwise, 6G2 Arabidopsis homologous sequences sharing the same genomic structure of the durum wheat 6G2 showed a similar intron retention event although not strictly dependent on stress.
The barley nucellin gene was reported to be nucellus specific in its expression and was hypothesized to play a role in the programmed cell death of the nucellus as an aspartic protease. Here we provide direct evidence that the rice ortholog encodes an active aspartic protease, but we prefer the name aspartic protease1 (OsAsp1) to nucellin after a detailed analysis of its expression pattern in rice and barley. Northern blots, RT-PCR and RNA in situ hybridization showed that OsAsp1 is expressed most abundantly in zygotic embryos 1-2 d after fertilization. It is also expressed in pollen, nucellus, ovary wall, shoot and root meristem, coleoptiles of immature seeds, and somatic embryos. A parallel study in barley showed that the barley nucellin gene was expressed not only in the nucellus but also strongly in embryos. Recombinant protein proOsAsp1 expressed in the bacterium Escherichia coli refolded and autolysed at acidic pH 3.5 in vitro, and the mature peptide displayed protease activity. Nucellin has three close homologs in rice on chromosomes 11 and 12 and in Arabidopsis on chromosomes 1 and 4. They lack the plant-specific insert that distinguishes the typical plant aspartic protease from aspartic proteases of other organisms. They constitute a new class of aspartic protease that is present in both monocots and dicots but whose function remains to be explored further.
The analysis of genome databases for many different plants has identified a group of genes that are related to one part of a two-component nitrate transport system found in algae. Earlier work using mutants and heterologous expression has shown that a high-affinity nitrate transport system from the unicellular green algae, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii required two gene products for function. One gene encoded a typical carrier-type structure with 12 putative trans-membrane (TM) domains and the other gene, nar2 encoded a much smaller protein that had only one TM domain. As both gene families occur in plants we investigated whether this transport model has more general relevance among plants. The screening for nitrate transporter activity was greatly helped by a novel assay using (15)N-enriched nitrate uptake into Xenopus oocytes expressing the proteins. This assay enables many oocytes to be rapidly screened for nitrate transport activity. The functional activity of a barley nitrate transporter, HvNRT2.1, in oocytes required co-injection of a second mRNA. Although three very closely related nar2-like genes were cloned from barley, only one of these was able to give functional nitrate transport when co-injected into oocytes. The nitrate transport performed by this two-gene system was inhibited at more acidic external pH and by acidification of the cytoplasm. This specific requirement for two-gene products to give nitrate transport function has important implications for attempts to genetically manipulate this fundamental process in plants.
Replication by many positive-strand RNA viruses includes genomic RNA amplification and subgenomic mRNA (sgRNA) transcription. For brome mosaic virus (BMV), both processes occur in virus-induced, membrane-associated compartments, require BMV replication factors 1a and 2a, and use negative-strand RNA3 as a template for genomic RNA3 and sgRNA syntheses. To begin elucidating their relations, we examined the interaction of RNA3 replication and sgRNA transcription in Saccharomyces cerevisiae expressing 1a and 2a, which support the full RNA3 replication cycle. Blocking sgRNA transcription stimulated RNA3 replication by up to 350%, implying that sgRNA transcription inhibits RNA3 replication. Such inhibition was independent of the sgRNA-encoded coat protein and operated in cis. We further found that sgRNA transcription inhibited RNA3 replication at a step or steps after negative-strand RNA3 synthesis, implying competition with positive-strand RNA3 synthesis for negative-strand RNA3 templates, viral replication factors, or common host components. Consistent with this, sgRNA transcription was stimulated by up to 400% when mutations inhibiting positive-strand RNA3 synthesis were introduced into the RNA3 5'-untranslated region. Thus, BMV subgenomic and genomic RNA syntheses mutually interfered with each other, apparently by competition for one or more common factors. In plant protoplasts replicating all three BMV genomic RNAs, mutations blocking sgRNA transcription often had lesser effects on RNA3 accumulation, possibly because RNA3 also competed with RNA1 and RNA2 replication templates and because any increase in RNA3 replication at the expense of RNA1 and RNA2 would be self-limited by decreased 1a and 2a expression from RNA1 and RNA2.
Barley alpha-amylase isozyme 2 was cloned into and constitutively secreted by Saccharomyces cervisiae. The gene coding for the wild-type enzyme was subjected to directed evolution. Libraries of mutants were screened by halo formation on starch agar plates, followed by high-throughput liquid assay using dye-labeled starch as the substrate. The concentration of recombinant enzyme in the culture supernatant was determined by immunodetection, and used for the calculation of specific activity. After three rounds of directed evolution, one mutant (Mu322) showed 1000 times the total activity and 20 times the specific activity of the wild-type enzyme produced by the same yeast expression system. Comparison of the amino acid sequence of this mutant with the wild type revealed five substitutions: Q44H, R303K and F325Y in domain A, and T94A and R128Q in domain B. Two of these mutations. Q44H and R303K, result in amino acids highly conserved in cereal alpha-amylases. R303K and F325Y are located in the raw starch-binding fragment of the enzyme molecule.
A genomic clone (Icy gene) encoding a barley cystatin has been characterized. The gene contains one intron interrupting its ORF that encodes a protein of 107 amino acid residues. A DNA fragment of -1058 bp upstream of the ATG translation initiation codon has been sequenced and several promoter deletions fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS; uidA gene) reporter gene obtained. Transient expression assays in different barley tissues have indicated that a -631 bp promoter fragment was sufficient for full activity. In bombarded barley aleurone layers the GUS-driven expression by this promoter is repressed by GA(3) incubation, as is the accumulation of the Icy transcripts detected. A spatial and temporal location of cystatin transcripts by in situ hybridization techniques indicates that this gene is ubiquitously expressed and its transcripts are particularly abundant in leaves and roots, and in seeds, both during development and upon germination. Two DOF transcription factors, SAD and BPBF, previously described as involved in gene expression regulation in seeds, interact specifically in vitro with oligonucleotides containing DOF binding-sites derived from the Icy gene promoter. Transient expression experiments in co-bombarded aleurone layers demonstrate that BPBF strongly represses transcription of the native Icy promoter, even when co-transfected with SAD that behaves as an activator in this in vivo system.
BarleyBase (BB) (www.barleybase.org) is an online database for plant microarrays with integrated tools for data visualization and statistical analysis. BB houses raw and normalized expression data from the two publicly available Affymetrix genome arrays, Barley1 and Arabidopsis ATH1 with plans to include the new Affymetrix 61K wheat, maize, soybean and rice arrays, as they become available. BB contains a broad set of query and display options at all data levels, ranging from experiments to individual hybridizations to probe sets down to individual probes. Users can perform cross-experiment queries on probe sets based on observed expression profiles and/or based on known biological information. Probe set queries are integrated with visualization and analysis tools such as the R statistical toolbox, data filters and a large variety of plot types. Controlled vocabularies for gene and plant ontologies, as well as interconnecting links to physical or genetic map and other genomic data in PlantGDB, Gramene and GrainGenes, allow users to perform EST alignments and gene function prediction using Barley1 exemplar sequences, thus, enhancing cross-species comparison.
The lemma and palea (lemma/palea), which form the husk of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seeds, constitutively express high levels of defense-related genes, relative to leaves [Abebe et al. (2004) Crop Sci 44:942-950]. One of these genes, Lem2, is expressed mainly in the lemma/palea and coleoptile and is strongly upregulated by salicylic acid (SA) and its functional analog 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid . Induction by SA was rapid, occurring within 4 h of treatment. However, Lem2 is not responsive to methyl jasmonate (MeJA) or wounding and is downregulated by drought, dehydration, and abscisic acid. These results suggest that Lem2 is involved in systemic acquired resistance. Sequence analysis showed that LEM2 is a jacalin-related lectin (JRL)-like protein with two domains. Consistent with northern and western blot data, transient expression analyses using Lem2::gfp constructs showed strong expression in lemmas and a trace expression in leaves. Successive 5' deletions of the 1,414 bp upstream region gradually weakened promoter strength, as measured by real-time PCR. Promoter deletion studies also revealed that the -75/+70 region (containing the TATA box, 5' UTR, and a SA-response element) determines tissue specificity and that the distal promoter region simply enhances expression. Southern analysis indicated that Morex barley has at least three copies of the Lem2 gene arranged in tandem on chromosome 5(1H) Bin 02, near the short arm telomere. Lem2 is not present in the barley cultivars Steptoe, Harrington, Golden Promise, and Q21861.
WRKY proteins constitute a large family of plant specific transcription factors implicated in many different processes. Here we describe Hv-WRKY38, a barley gene coding for a WRKY protein, whose expression is involved in cold and drought stress response. Hv-WRKY38 was early and transiently expressed during exposure to low non-freezing temperature, in ABA-independent manner. Furthermore, it showed a continuous induction during dehydration and freezing treatments. A WRKY38:YFP fusion protein was found to localise into the nucleus upon introduction into epidermal onion cells. Bacterially expressed Hv-WRKY38 was able to bind in vitro to the W-box element (T)TGAC(C/T) also recognisable by other WRKY proteins. Hv-WRKY38 genomic DNA was sequenced and mapped onto the centromeric region of the barley chromosome 6H. Arabidopsis and rice sequences homologous to Hv-WRKY38 were also identified. Our results indicate that Hv-WRKY38 transcription factor may play a regulatory role in abiotic stress response.
Gene expression analysis by cDNA-AFLP in barley ( Hordeum vulgare L.) after powdery mildew ( Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei , Bgh ) inoculation revealed 615 (3.7%) of 16 500 screened cDNA fragments being differentially regulated 4 and/or 12 h after inoculation. Of these transcript derived fragments (TDFs), 120 were sequenced, and for 28 out of 29 tested, induction was confirmed via RT-PCR. Most TDFs did not show any homology to sequences with known functions, others showed homology to genes involved in primary and secondary metabolism, pathogen response, redox regulation, and signal transduction. TDFs with homology to a MAP kinase ( PWMK1 ), a WRKY transcription factor, a heparanase, an immunophilin, a cytochrome P450, and a receptor-like protein kinase were isolated as full length cDNAs. Knockdown by RNA interference via biolistic delivery of sequence specific double stranded RNA to leaf segments tagged two of these genes as possible candidates being causally involved in the outcome of the barley- Bgh interaction. Knockdown of the receptor-like protein kinase and the WRKY transcription factor increased resistance to the fungus, while knockdown of PWMK1 only led to a slightly enhanced susceptibility of epidermal cells to Bgh . This suggests that the receptor-like protein kinase and the WRKY protein are candidates for negative regulators of powdery mildew resistance. Based on expression analyses, PWMK1 appears to be more generally involved in stress response.
An Ltp2 promoter was isolated from barley as an aleurone-specific promoter, and its tissue specificity was maintained in transgenic rice. Expression of the Ltp2-gus gene in rice could be detected by X-gluc staining of the seeds. Previously, we reported the isolation of silenced plants in the R2 generation and the involvement of antisense gus transcripts in aleurone-specific Ltp2-gus gene silencing in transgenic rice, the L3.3 line. In the current study, we analyzed the L0.1 line, a sibling of the L3.3 line, and the partially revertant line from the L0.1 line accompanied by a transgene structural change. Strong silencing of the Ltp2-gus gene was detected over five generations in the L0.1 line. DNA and RNA analysis revealed that there were incomplete transgenes and that several aberrant RNAs that carried an antisense gus region were expressed in the L0.1 line. Determination of the transgene structure in the L0.1 line revealed that the partial antisense gus gene and the partial Ltp2 promoter region fused to the Ltp2 promoter were lacking in the revertants. RNA analysis demonstrated that the antisense gus and the promoter transcripts were produced and found in the poly(A)- fraction. Results of these analyses suggested that the observed aberrant transcripts, including antisense and promoter transcripts, were associated with Ltp2-gus silencing in the L0.1 line.
The cis-acting elements for Brome mosaic virus (BMV) RNA synthesis have been characterized primarily for RNA3. To identify additional replicase-binding elements, nested fragments of all three of the BMV RNAs, both plus- and minus-sense fragments, were constructed and tested for binding enriched BMV replicase in a template competition assay. Ten RNA fragments containing replicase-binding sites were identified; eight were characterized further because they were more effective competitors. All eight mapped to noncoding regions of BMV RNAs, and the positions of seven localized to sequences containing previously characterized core promoter elements (C. C. Kao, Mol. Plant Pathol. 3:55-62, 2001), thus suggesting the identities of the replicase-binding sites. Three contained the tRNA-like structures that direct minus-strand RNA synthesis, three were within the 3' region of each minus-strand RNA that contained the core promoter for genomic plus-strand initiation, and one was in the core subgenomic promoter. Single-nucleotide mutations known previously to abolish RNA synthesis in vitro prevented replicase binding. When tested in the context of the respective full-length RNAs, the same mutations abolished BMV RNA synthesis in transfected barley protoplasts. The eighth site was within the intercistronic region (ICR) of plus-strand RNA3. Further mapping showed that a sequence of 22 consecutive adenylates was responsible for binding the replicase, with 16 being the minimal required length. Deletion of the poly(A) sequence was previously shown to severely debilitate BMV RNA replication in plants (E. Smirnyagina, Y. H. Hsu, N. Chua, and P. Ahlquist, Virology 198:427-436, 1994). Interestingly, the B box motif in the ICR of RNA3, which has previously been determined to bind the 1a protein, does not bind the replicase. These results identify the replicase-binding sites in all of the BMV RNAs and suggest that the recognition of RNA3 is different from that of RNA1 and RNA2.
Arabidopsis does not support the growth and asexual reproduction of the barley pathogen, Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei Bgh). A majority of germlings fail to penetrate the epidermal cell wall and papillae. To gain additional insight into this interaction, we determined whether the salicylic acid (SA) or jasmonate (JA)/ethylene (ET) defence pathways played a role in blocking barley powdery mildew infections. Only the eds1 mutant and NahG transgenics supported a modest increase in penetration success by the barley powdery mildew. We also compared the global gene expression patterns of Arabidopsis inoculated with the non-host barley powdery mildew to those inoculated with a virulent, host powdery mildew, Erysiphe cichoracearum. Genes repressed by inoculations with non-host and host powdery mildews relative to non-inoculated control plants accounted for two-thirds of the differentially expressed genes. A majority of these genes encoded components of photosynthesis and general metabolism. Consistent with this observation, Arabidopsis growth was inhibited following inoculation with Bgh, suggesting a shift in resource allocation from growth to defence. A number of defence-associated genes were induced during both interactions. These genes likely are components of basal defence responses, which do not effectively block host powdery mildew infections. In addition, genes encoding defensins, anti-microbial peptides whose expression is under the control of the JA/ET signalling pathway, were induced exclusively by non-host pathogens. Ectopic activation of JA/ET signalling protected Arabidopsis against two biotrophic host pathogens. Taken together, these data suggest that biotrophic host pathogens must either suppress or fail to elicit the JA/ET signal transduction pathway.
Previous studies have shown that the promoter from the barley (Hordeum vulgare) phosphate transporter gene, HvPht1;1, activates high levels of expression in rice (Oryza sativa) roots and that the expression level was induced by up to 4-fold in response to phosphorus (P) deprivation. To identify promoter regions controlling gene regulation specificities, successive promoter truncations were made and attached to reporter genes. Promoters of between 856 and 1,400 nucleotides activated gene expression in a number of cell types but with maximal expression in trichoblast (root hair) cells. For shorter promoters the trichoblast specificity was lost, but in other tissues the distribution pattern was unchanged. The low P induction response was unaffected by promoter length. Domain exchange experiments subsequently identified that the region between -856 and -547 nucleotides (relative to the translational start) is required for epidermal cell expression. A second region located between 0 and -195 nucleotides controls root-tip expression. The HvPht1;1 promoter contains one PHO-like motif and three motifs similar to the dicot P1BS element. Analysis of promoters from which the PHO-like element was eliminated (by truncation) showed no change in the gene induction response to P deficiency. In contrast, mutation of the P1BS elements eliminated any induction of gene expression in response to low P. An internal HvPht1;1 promoter fragment, incorporating a single P1BS element, had an increased response to P deprivation in comparison with the unmodified promoter (containing three elements). Together these findings further our understanding of the regulation of the HvPht1;1 gene and provide direct evidence for a functional role of the P1BS element in the expression of P-regulated genes.
In the present paper, we report on the selection of two sets of candidate introgression lines (pre-ILs) in spring barley. Two BC2DH populations, S42 and T42, were generated by introgressing an accession of Hordeum vulgare ssp. spontaneum (ISR42-8, from Israel) into two different spring barley cultivars, Scarlett (S) and Thuringia (T). From these BC2DH populations two sets with 49 (S42) and 43 (T42) pre-ILs were selected, and their genomic architecture as revealed by SSR marker analysis was characterised. The selected pre-ILs cover at least 98.1% (S42) and 93.0% (T42) of the exotic genome in overlapping introgressions and contain on average 2 (S42) and 1.5 (T42) additional non-target introgressions. In order to illustrate a potential application and validation of these pre-ILs, the phenotypic effect of the exotic introgression at the locus of the major photoperiod response gene Ppd-H1 was analysed. Pre-ILs carrying the introgression at the Ppd-H1 locus flowered significantly earlier than the elite parents, and the introgression maintained its effect across the two genetic backgrounds and across four tested environments. The selected pre-ILs represent a first promising step towards the assessment and utilization of genetic variation present in exotic barley. They may promote the breeding progress, serve for the verification of QTL effects and provide a valuable resource for the unravelling of gene function, e.g. by expression profiling or map-based cloning.
Using plant EST collections, we obtained 1392 potential gene duplicates across 8 plant species: Zea mays, Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor, Hordeum vulgare, Solanum tuberosum, Lycopersicon esculentum, Medicago truncatula, and Glycine max. We estimated the synonymous and nonsynonymous distances between each gene pair and identified two to three mixtures of normal distributions corresponding to one to three rounds of genome duplication in each species. Within the Poaceae, we found a conserved duplication event among all four species that occurred approximately 50-60 million years ago (Mya); an event that probably occurred before the major radiation of the grasses. In the Solanaceae, we found evidence for a conserved duplication event approximately 50-52 Mya. A duplication in soybean occurred approximately 44 Mya and a duplication in Medicago about 58 Mya. Comparing synonymous and nonsynonymous distances allowed us to determine that most duplicate gene pairs are under purifying, negative selection. We calculated Pearson's correlation coefficients to provide us with a measure of how gene expression patterns have changed between duplicate pairs, and compared this across evolutionary distances. This analysis showed that some duplicates seemed to retain expression patterns between pairs, whereas others showed uncorrelated expression.
Some barley mutants can synthesize neither anthocyanins nor proanthocyanidins in the seed coat, which is related to several genes in locus Ant13, but the exact model of action remains unknown. We used the cDNA microarray technology with barley transcription-deficient mutant (ant13-152) that does not synthesize proanthocyanidins as the tester, and its wild type genotype (Triumph) as the driver, to study this question. Six-thousand and forty-eight clones from the wild type Morex testa+pericarp cDNA library were amplified using PCR, and the DNA fragments were spotted on commercial amino-modified glass slide as microarray. The mRNAs from the developing seed coat (8-15 days) of both the mutant and the wild-type barley plants were isolated, and labeled respectively with Cy3-dUTP and Cy5-dUTP when reversely transcribed to cDNAs. The labeled cDNAs were used as probes, mixed at the same molar concentration, and hybridized with the DNA fragments on the slide. Seventy clones exhibiting marked differential expression (ratio>4) were identified from the microarray. All the 25 cDNA clones that showed an over-expression in wild type in comparison to the mutant ant13-152 were sequenced. It was found that most of these overexpressing clones were transcription/translation and hordein-associated genes. These results have laid a solid material basis for further elucidation of the metabolic pathway in proanthocyanidin synthesis in barley and likely other plants.
The cloning of two novel genes that encode cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase (CKX) in barley is described in this work. Transformation of both genes into Arabidopsis and tobacco showed that at least one of the genes codes for a functional enzyme, as its expression caused a cytokinin-deficient phenotype in the heterologous host plants. Additional cloning of two gene fragments, and an in silico search in the public expressed sequence tag clone databases, revealed the presence of at least 13 more members of the CKX gene family in barley and wheat. The expression of three selected barley genes was analyzed by RT-PCR and found to be organ-specific with peak expression in mature kernels. One barley CKX (HvCKX2) was characterized in detail after heterologous expression in tobacco. Interestingly, this enzyme shows a pH optimum at 4.5 and a preference for cytokinin ribosides as substrates, which may indicate its vacuolar targeting. Different substrate specificities, and the pH profiles of cytokinin-degrading enzymes extracted from different barley tissues, are also presented.
Identification of regulatory elements directing definite and specific spatiotemporal expression patterns is a prerequisite to the next generation of transgenic plants with commercial and ethical feasibility for producing plantibodies or other pharmaceutically important compounds. Here we describe the functional dissection of the barley nonspecific lipid transfer protein gene promoter, HvLTP2. The gene is specifically expressed in aleurone cells of cereals and used as an aleurone marker in maize and rice. The transcript is uniformly localised in the barley aleurone cells from around 10 DAP. Patchy expression in aleurone cells of transgenic rice has been reported and explained by silencing of transgenes. We have performed deletion analyses of the 801-bp HvLTP2 promoter to gain insight into the molecular basis of its regulation and the presence of putative regulatory elements. From the deletion studies, a 49-bp promoter region directing aleurone-specific expression was identified. Simultaneously, in vivo footprinting was carried out to identify promoter elements bound by putative regulatory proteins. Within the 49-bp fragment, the most promising candidate for a minimal cis-acting regulatory region directing aleurone specificity is the ds-sequence. Based on our results, we hypothesise that the ds-sequence directs aleurone specificity, possibly through a concerted action with elements directing general expression in the seed. Moreover, we present an overview of LTP2 elements putatively involved in directing seed, endosperm, and aleurone expression. Additionally, we report HvLTP2 expression in the embryo, not previously detected. The regulatory element(s) directing expression in embryo is located downstream of the 49-bp fragment directing aleurone specificity, thus demonstrating independent control of aleurone and embryo-localised expression. Finally, we discuss the existence of several endosperm-specific boxes and whether alternative promoter elements and combinations of them may direct aleurone expression, explaining why comparing different genes expressed in aleurone fail to identify only one required, common promoter element.
Acidity is a serious limitation to plant production on many of the world's agricultural soils. Toxic aluminium (Al) cations solubilized by the acidity rapidly inhibit root growth and limit subsequent uptake of water and nutrients. Recent work has shown that the ALMT1 gene of wheat (Triticum aestivum) encodes a malate transporter that is associated with malate efflux and Al tolerance. We generated transgenic barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants expressing ALMT1 and assessed their ability to exude malate and withstand Al stress. ALMT1 expression in barley conferred an Al-activated efflux of malate with properties similar to those of Al-tolerant wheat. The transgenic barley showed a high level of Al tolerance when grown in both hydroponic culture and on acid soils. These findings provide additional evidence that ALMT1 is a major Al-tolerance gene and demonstrate its ability to confer effective tolerance to acid soils through a transgenic approach in an important crop species.
The ancestral shared synteny concept has been advocated as an approach to positionally clone genes from complex genomes. However, the unified grass genome model and the study of grasses as a single syntenic genome is a topic of considerable controversy. Hence, more quantitative studies of cereal colinearity at the sequence level are required. This study compared a contiguous 300-kb sequence of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) genome with the colinear region in rice (Oryza sativa). The barley sequence harbors genes involved in endosperm texture, which may be the subject of distinctive evolutionary forces and is located at the extreme telomeric end of the short arm of chromosome 5H. Comparative sequence analysis revealed the presence of five orthologous genes and a complex, postspeciation evolutionary history involving small chromosomal rearrangements, a translocation, numerous gene duplications, and extensive transposon insertion. Discrepancies in gene content and microcolinearity indicate that caution should be exercised in the use of rice as a surrogate for map-based cloning of genes from large genome cereals such as barley.
The expression of three genes that encode proteins involved in peroxisome biogenesis, beta-oxidation and the glyoxylate cycle was studied in Arabidopsis plants by fusing their promoter regions to the reporter gene luciferase. Malate synthase showed an extremely restricted pattern of expression, being detected only in young seedlings and the root tips of older plants. PEX1 and 3-ketoacyl thiolase (PED1) were expressed in roots, mature leaves, stems and flowers. However, only thiolase was up-regulated by starvation. Immunoblotting confirmed that neither malate synthase nor the other unique glyoxylate cycle enzyme isocitrate lyase are expressed in senescent leaves. These results indicate that, in contrast to cucumber, pumpkin and barley, the glyoxylate cycle does not play a role in the recycling of carbon from the turnover of membrane lipids during senescence and starvation in Arabidopsis.
Two-step PCR (RT-PCR and nested PCR) was used to detect gene expression in powdery mildew pathogen-infected cells of detached inner epidermis of barley coleoptiles. Cellular contents of infected cells were microscopically suctioned with a micropipette and subjected to PCR. Triosephosphate isomerase and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase genes involved in the glycolytic pathway and a stimulus-induced endochitinase gene were targeted, and their expression was determined by detecting cDNAs derived from spliced transcripts. The two gycolysis-related genes were constantly expressed in the tissue irrespective of pathogen inoculation. In contrast, chitinase gene expression was induced in non-infected inner epidermis after detachment. After inoculation, this expression was selectively suppressed in pathogen-invaded cells, in spite of continuous expression in non-invaded cells of the same epidermis. Thus, the present method enabled us to directly analyze transcripts in individual cells at the infection site and assess the capability of the pathogen to regulate host gene expression.
To provide resources for barley genomics, 110,981 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were generated from 22 cDNA libraries representing tissues at various developmental stages. This EST collection corresponds to approximately one-third of the 380,000 publicly available barley ESTs. Clustering and assembly resulted in 14,151 tentative consensi (TCs) and 11 073 singletons, altogether representing 25 224 putatively unique sequences. Of these, 17.5% showed no significant similarity to other barley ESTs present in dbEST. More than 41% of all barley genes are supposed to belong to multigene families and approximately 4% of the barley genes undergo alternative splicing. Based on the functional annotation of the set of unique sequences, the functional category 'Energy' was further analysed to reveal tissue- and stage-specific differences in gene expression. Hierarchical clustering of 362 differentially expressed TCs resulted in the identification of seven major clusters. The clusters reflect biochemical pathways predominantly activated in specific tissues and at various developmental stages. During seed germination glycolysis could be identified as the most predominant biochemical pathway. Germination-specific glycolysis is characterized by the coordinated expression of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, whose antagonistic actions possibly regulate the flux of amino acids into protein biosynthesis and gluconeogenesis respectively. The expression of defence-related and antioxidant genes during germination might be controlled by the ethylene-signalling pathway as concluded from the coordinated expression of those genes and the transcription factors (TF) EIN3 and EREBPG. Moreover, because of their predominant expression in germinating seeds, TF of the AP2 and MYB type are presumably major regulators of germination.
Under high salt conditions, plant growth is severely inhibited due to both osmotic and ionic stresses. In an effort to dissect genes and pathways that respond to changes in osmotic potential under salt stress, the expression patterns were compared of 460 non-redundant salt-responsive genes in barley during the initial phase under osmotic versus salt stress using cDNA microarrays with northern blot and real-time RT-PCR analyses. Out of 52 genes that were differentially expressed under osmotic stress, 11, such as the up-regulated genes for pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase, betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase 2, plasma membrane protein 3, and the down-regulated genes for water channel 2, heat shock protein 70, and phospholipase C, were regulated in a virtually identical manner under salt stress. These genes were involved in a wide range of metabolic and signalling pathways suggesting that, during the initial phase under salt stress, several of the cellular responses are mediated by changes in osmotic potential.
The rice virescent-2 mutant (v(2)) is temperature conditional and develops chlorotic, chloroplast-deficient leaves at the restrictive temperature. In the v(2) mutant, plastid-encoded proteins involved in photosynthesis and plastid transcriptional regulation were not detectable at any time during chloroplast differentiation. However, the plastid transcripts for these two classes of proteins behaved differently in the mutant, with those for the plastid transcription/translation apparatus accumulating to wild-type levels and those for photosynthetic apparatus being suppressed. Polysome analysis showed that translation of the plastid transcripts encoding the plastid transcription/translation apparatus was blocked at an early stage of chloroplast differentiation. Accumulation of transcripts of nuclear-encoded photosynthetic genes, such as cab and rbcS, was strongly suppressed in the mutant at later stages of chloroplast differentiation, whereas transcripts of genes for the plastid transcription apparatus, such as OsRpoTp and OsSIG2A, accumulated to abnormally high levels at these stages. These results suggest that activation of the plastid translation machinery at an early stage of chloroplast differentiation is important for triggering the transmission of information about plastid developmental state to the nucleus, which in turn is required for the induction of nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins at later stages of chloroplast differentiation.
SPINDLY (SPY) protein from barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Himalaya; HvSPY) negatively regulated GA responses in aleurone, and genetic analyses of Arabidopsis thaliana predict that SPY functions in a derepressible GA-signaling pathway. Many, if not all, GA-dependent responses require SPY protein, and to improve our understanding of how the SPY signaling pathway operates, a yeast two-hybrid screen was used to identify both upstream and downstream components that might regulate the activity of the HvSPY protein. A number of proteins from diverse classes were identified using HvSPY as bait and barley cDNA libraries as prey. Two of the HvSPY-interacting (HSI) proteins were transcription factors belonging to the myb and NAC gene families, HSImyb and HSINAC. Interaction occurred via the tetratricopeptide repeat domain of HvSPY and specificity was shown both in vivo and in vitro. Messenger RNAs for these proteins were expressed differentially in many parts of the barley plant but at very low levels. Both HSImyb and HSINAC inhibited the GA(3) up-regulation of alpha-amylase expression in aleurone, both were activators of transcription in yeast, and the green fluorescent protein-HSI fusion proteins were localized in the nucleus. These results are consistent with the model that HSI transcription factors act downstream of HvSPY as negative regulators and that they in turn could activate other negative regulators, forming the HvSPY negative regulator-signaling pathway for GA response.
Plant recognition of pathogen-derived molecules influences attack and counterattack strategies that affect the outcome of host-microbe interactions. To ascertain the global framework of host gene expression during biotrophic pathogen invasion, we analyzed in parallel the mRNA abundance of 22,792 host genes throughout 36 (genotype x pathogen x time) interactions between barley (Hordeum vulgare) and Blumeria graminis f. sp hordei (Bgh), the causal agent of powdery mildew disease. A split-split-plot design was used to investigate near-isogenic barley lines with introgressed Mla6, Mla13, and Mla1 coiled-coil, nucleotide binding site, Leu-rich repeat resistance alleles challenged with Bgh isolates 5874 (AvrMla6 and AvrMla1) and K1 (AvrMla13 and AvrMla1). A linear mixed model analysis was employed to identify genes with significant differential expression (P value < 0.0001) in incompatible and compatible barley-Bgh interactions across six time points after pathogen challenge. Twenty-two host genes, of which five were of unknown function, exhibited highly similar patterns of upregulation among all incompatible and compatible interactions up to 16 h after inoculation (hai), coinciding with germination of Bgh conidiospores and formation of appressoria. By contrast, significant divergent expression was observed from 16 to 32 hai, during membrane-to-membrane contact between fungal haustoria and host epidermal cells, with notable suppression of most transcripts identified as differentially expressed in compatible interactions. These findings provide a link between the recognition of general and specific pathogen-associated molecules in gene-for-gene specified resistance and support the hypothesis that host-specific resistance evolved from the recognition and prevention of the pathogen's suppression of plant basal defense.
The maize Rp1-D gene confers race-specific resistance against Puccinia sorghi (common leaf rust) isolates containing a corresponding avrRp1-D avirulence gene. An Rp1-D genomic clone and a similar Rp1-D transgene regulated by the maize ubiquitin promoter were transformed independently into susceptible maize lines and shown to confer Rp1-D resistance, demonstrating that this resistance can be transferred as a single gene. Transfer of these functional transgenes into wheat and barley did not result in novel resistances when these plants were challenged with isolates of wheat stem rust (P. graminis), wheat leaf rust (P. triticina), or barley leaf rust (P. hordei). Regardless of the promoter employed, low levels of gene expression were observed. When constitutive promoters were used for transgene expression, a majority of Rp1-D transcripts were truncated in the nucleotide binding site-encoding region by premature polyadenylation. This aberrant mRNA processing was unrelated to gene function because an inactive version of the gene also generated such transcripts. These data demonstrate that resistance gene transfer between species may not be limited only by divergence of signaling effector molecules and pathogen avirulence ligands, but potentially also by more fundamental gene expression and transcript processing limitations.
GAMYB is a GA-responsive activator of hydrolase gene expression in the aleurone layer of germinated cereal grains. We have isolated a putative GAMYB-binding protein, GMPOZ, which contains a BTB/POZ domain found in certain animal transcriptional regulators. Although BTB/POZ domain proteins are numerous in plants, very few are yet characterized. We found that GMPOZ is nuclear localized and that GMPOZ mRNA is expressed highly in anthers as well as aleurone. Transient silencing of the GMPOZ gene suggests that GMPOZ is involved in hormone responsive gene expression in aleurone.
Increasing the zinc content of cereal grains will be important for improving human nutrition. Improved plant zinc efficiency will lead to increased yields when available zinc is limiting plant growth. The aim of our work was to test how the over-expression of zinc transporters in cereals affects plant growth, seed mineral content, and zinc transport rates. Known zinc transporters from Arabidopsis were over-expressed in Hordeum vulgare cv. Golden Promise by means of a ubiquitin promoter. Multiple transgenic lines were obtained, and the locus number and expression levels were verified. Transgenic lines were tested in long-term growth and short-term uptake experiments. Seeds from transgenic lines grown in soil had higher zinc and iron contents than controls. Short-term uptake rates were higher in the transgenic lines after zinc deprivation. Resupply of zinc after a period of deprivation resulted in the rapid decrease in zinc uptake even in transgenic lines in which a zinc transporter gene was constitutively expressed. Similar to processes in yeast and Arabidopsis, we hypothesize that this rapid decrease in zinc transport activity may be caused by the degradation of transporters in response to zinc-sufficient conditions. In the long-term growth experiments, there were no significant differences between transgenic and control lines in leaf zinc content or shoot biomass under zinc-sufficient or -deficient conditions. However, root-to-shoot ratios were higher in the transgenic plants grown under low-zinc conditions; this could impact zinc acquisition under field conditions. Increased seed zinc and iron content by over-expression of a zinc transporter provides a new strategy for increasing the micronutrient content of cereals.
The barley (Hordeum vulgare) cultivar Golden Promise is no longer widely used for malting, but is amenable to transformation and is therefore a valuable experimental cultivar. Its characteristics include high salt tolerance, however it is also susceptible to several fungal pathogens. Proteome analysis was used to describe the water-soluble protein fraction of Golden Promise seeds in comparison with the modern malting cultivar Barke. Using 2D-gel electrophoresis to visualise several hundred proteins in the pH ranges 4-7 and 6-11, 16 protein spots were found to differ between the two cultivars. Eleven of these were identified by mass spectrometric peptide mass mapping, including an abundant chitinase implicated in defence against fungal pathogens and a small heat-shock protein. To enable a comparison with transgenic seed protein patterns, differences in spot patterns between field and greenhouse-grown seeds were analysed. Four spots were observed to be increased in intensity in the proteome of greenhouse-grown seeds, three of which may be related to nitrogen availability during grain filling and total protein content of the seeds, since they also increased in field grown seeds supplied with extra nitrogen. Finally, the fate of transgene products in barley seeds was followed. Spots containing two green fluorescent protein constructs and the herbicide resistance marker phosphinothricin acetyltransferase were observed in 2D-gel patterns of transgenic seeds and identified by mass spectrometry. Phosphinothricin acetyltransferase was observed in three spots differing in pI suggesting that post-translational modification of the transgene product had occurred.
The analysis of stress-responsiveness in plants is an important route to the discovery of genes conferring stress tolerance and their use in breeding programs. High temperature is one of the environmental stress factors that can affect the growth and quality characteristics of barley (Hordeum vulgare). In this study a proteomic analysis (2D-PAGE, MS) was used to detect the effects of heat shock on the protein pattern of an abiotic stress-tolerant (Mandolina) and an abiotic stress-susceptible (Jubilant) barley cultivar. Evaluation of two-dimensional gels revealed several proteins to be differentially expressed as a result of heat stress in both cultivars. The protein spots of interest were, after an in-gel tryptic digestion, further investigated by mass spectrometry. For the analysis of the peptide mixture, we both used a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) tandem time of flight mass spectrometer (TOF/TOF) and an automated nano-HPLC system coupled to an electrospray ionization-quadrupole linear ion trap (Q-TRAP) instrument. The hyphenation of the latter techniques proved to be a powerful technique as shown by the identification of six isoforms of a 16.9 kDa sHSP in one single spot. We observed that S-adenosylmethionine synthetase (SAM-S) was differentially expressed between the two cultivars. Recent results refer to the role of SAM-S as being involved in abiotic stress tolerance. Furthermore, comparison of the heat shock treated samples also revealed several small heat shock proteins (sHSP), of which distinct isoforms could be characterised.
We have successfully established a novel protein microarray-based kinase assay, which we applied to identify target proteins of the barley protein kinase CK2alpha. As a source of recombinant barley proteins we cloned cDNAs specific for filial tissues of developing barley seeds into an E. coli expression vector. By using robot technology, 21,500 library clones were arrayed in microtiter plates and gridded onto high-density filters. Protein expressing clones were detected using an anti-RGS-His6 antibody and rearrayed into a sublibrary of 4100 clones. All of these clones were sequenced from the 5'-end and the sequences were analysed by homology searches against protein databases. Based on these results we selected 768 clones expressing different barley proteins for protein purification. The purified proteins were robotically arrayed onto FAST slides. The generated protein microarrays were incubated with an expression library-derived barley CK2alpha in the presence of [gamma-33P]ATP, and signals were detected by X-ray film or phosphor imager. We were able to demonstrate the power of the protein microarray technology by identification of 21 potential targets out of 768 proteins including such well-known substrates of CK2alpha as high mobility group proteins and calreticulin.
Germination of monocotyledonous plants involves activation and de novo synthesis of enzymes that degrade cell walls and starch and mobilize stored endosperm reserves for embryo growth. Two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry were applied to identify major water-soluble proteins in extracts of mature barley (Hordeum vulgare) seeds and to follow their fate during germination. About 1200 and 600 spots of pI 4-7 were detected on 2-D gels by silver staining and colloidal Coomassie Brilliant Blue staining, respectively. About 300 spots were selected for in-gel digestion followed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-mass spectrometry-peptide map fingerprint analysis. Database searches using measured peptide masses resulted in 198 identifications of 103 proteins in 177 spots. These include housekeeping enzymes, chaperones, defence proteins (including enzyme inhibitors), and proteins related to desiccation and oxidative stress. Sixty-four of the identifications were made using expressed sequence tags (ESTs). Numerous spots in the 2-D gel pattern changed during germination (micromalting) and an intensely stained area which contained large amounts of the serpin protein Z appeared centrally on the 2-D gel. Spots containing alpha-amylase also appeared. Identification of 22 spots after three days of germination represented 13 different database entries and 11 functions including hydrolytic enzymes, chaperones, housekeeping enzymes, and inhibitors.
The barley protein limit dextrinase inhibitor (LDI), structurally related to the alpha-amylase/trypsin inhibitor family, is an inhibitor of the starch debranching enzyme limit dextrinase (LD). In order to investigate the function of LDI, and the consequences for starch metabolism of reduced LDI activity, transgenic barley plants designed to downregulate LDI by antisense were generated. Homozygous antisense lines with reduced LDI protein level and activity were analysed and found to have enhanced free LD activity in both developing and germinating grains. In addition the antisense lines showed unpredicted pleiotropic effects on numerous enzyme activities, for example, alpha- and beta-amylases and starch synthases. Analysis of the starch showed much reduced numbers of the small B-type starch granules, as well as reduced amylose relative to amylopectin levels and reduced total starch. The chain length distribution of the amylopectin was modified with less of the longer chains (>25 units) and enhanced number of medium chains (10-15 units). These results suggest an important role for LDI and LD during starch synthesis as well as during starch breakdown.
Fourteen multiparous midlactation dairy cows were used in a change-over experiment with 3 periods and 3 diets to evaluate the effects of fodder beets and potatoes on N metabolism, microbial protein production, and milk production. A basal ration of alfalfa/grass silage offered ad libitum, 1 kg of grass hay and 1 kg of heat-treated rapeseed cake was supplemented with 5 kg DM of either rolled barley/raw potatoes 80:20 (BAP), fodder beets/raw potatoes 80:20 (BEP) or rolled barley (BA). Urine and feces were collected quantitatively from 8 cows and ruminal samplings, and evacuations were performed on 4 cannulated cows. Intake and production did not differ between BAP and BA, but the BEP diet lowered intake of both silage and total ration by 0.9 kg DM. Daily yield of energy-corrected milk (ECM) was decreased by 1.7 and 2.3 kg compared with BAP and BA, respectively. Milk urea concentration was 1 mM lower with the BEP diet. The proportion of feed N recovered in milk was 20 to 21% for all diets. With the BEP diet, urinary N amount and proportion were reduced correspondingly to the lower total N intake. Fecal N amount remained unchanged, and hence nitrogen apparent digestibility decreased by 5 percentage units with the BEP diet. Microbial protein production, assessed by allantoin excretion, tended to be highest with the BAP diet. Acetate proportion of VFA was lowered by the BEP diet, while proportions of propionate and butyrate both tended to increase. Different fermentation patterns, probably related to differences in rumen microbiota, could explain why changes in energetic efficiency and milk composition reported in the literature did not occur in the actual experiment when roots replaced barley. Compared with barley, roots appeared to have a greater negative effect on silage intake in conjunction with a prewilted silage with high intake potential allowed ad libitum and this decreased milk production by a magnitude corresponding to the lower intake of ME.
During seed growth, the filial organs, Vicia embryos and barley endosperm, differentiate into highly specialized storage tissues. Differentiation is evident on structural and morphological levels and is reflected by the spatial distribution of metabolites. In Vicia embryos, glucose is spatially correlated to mitotic activity whereas elongating and starch accumulating cells contain high levels of sucrose. Seed development is also regulated by phytohormones. In pea seeds, GA-deficiency stops seed growth before maturation. In Arabidopsis seeds, ABA regulates differentiation and inhibits cell division activity. The ABA pathway, in turn, is linked to sugar responses. In young Vicia embryos, invertases in maternal tissues control both concentration and composition of sugars. Embryonic and endospermal transfer cell formation represents an early differentiation step. Establishing an epidermis-localised sucrose uptake system renders the embryo independent from maternal control. cDNA array analysis in barley seeds revealed a massive transcriptional re-programming of gene expression during the transition stage, when gene clusters related to transport and energy metabolism are highly transcribed. Sucrose represents a signal for differentiation and up-regulates storage-associated gene expression. Sucrose signalling involves protein phosphorylation. Sucrose non-fermenting-1-related protein kinases are apparently induced in response to high cellular sucrose, and could act as mediators of sucrose-specific signals. Energy metabolism changes during seed development. In Vicia embryos metabolic responses upon hypoxia and low energy charge levels are characteristic for young undifferentiated stages when energy demand and respiration are high. During the transition stage, the embryo becomes adapted to low energy availability and metabolism becomes energetically more economic and tightly controlled. These adaptations are embedded in the embryo's differentiation program and coupled with photoheterotrophic metabolism. In Vicia cotyledons, ATP content increases in a development-dependent pattern and is associated with the greening process. The main role of seed photosynthesis is to increase internal O2 contents and to control biosynthetic fluxes by improving energy supply.
Suc-phosphate synthase (SPS) is a key regulatory enzyme in the pathway of Suc biosynthesis and has been linked to quantitative trait loci controlling plant growth and yield. In dicotyledonous plants there are three SPS gene families: A, B, and C. Here we report the finding of five families of SPS genes in wheat (Triticum aestivum) and other monocotyledonous plants from the family Poaceae (grasses). Three of these form separate subfamilies within the previously described A, B, and C gene families, but the other two form a novel and distinctive D family, which on present evidence is only found in the Poaceae. The D-type SPS proteins lack the phosphorylation sites associated with 14-3-3 protein binding and osmotic stress activation, and the linker region between the N-terminal catalytic glucosyltransferase domain and the C-terminal Suc-phosphatase-like domain is 80 to 90 amino acid residues shorter than in the A, B, or C types. The D family appears to have arisen after the divergence of mono- and dicotyledonous plants, with a later duplication event resulting in the two D-type subfamilies. Each of the SPS gene families in wheat showed different, but overlapping, spatial and temporal expression patterns, and in most organs at least two different SPS genes are expressed. Analysis of expressed sequence tags indicated similar expression patterns to wheat for each SPS gene family in barley (Hordeum vulgare) but not in more distantly related grasses. We identified an expressed sequence tag from rice (Oryza sativa) that appears to be derived from an endogenous antisense SPS gene, and this might account for the apparently low level of expression of the related OsSPS11 sense gene, adding to the already extensive list of mechanisms for regulating the activity of SPS in plants.
Resistance and susceptibility in barley to the powdery mildew fungus (Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei) is determined at the single-cell level. Even in genetically compatible interactions, attacked plant epidermal cells defend themselves against attempted fungal penetration by localized responses leading to papilla deposition and reinforcement of their cell wall. This conveys a race-nonspecific form of resistance. However, this defense is not complete, and a proportion of penetration attempts succeed in infection. The resultant mixture of infected and uninfected leaf cells makes it impossible to relate powdery mildew-induced gene expression in whole leaves or even dissected epidermal tissues to resistance or susceptibility. A method for generating transcript profiles from individual barley epidermal cells was established and proven useful for analyzing resistant and successfully infected cells separately. Contents of single epidermal cells (resistant, infected, and unattacked controls) were collected, and after cDNA synthesis and PCR amplification, the resulting sample was hybridized to dot-blots spotted with genes, including some previously reported to be induced upon pathogen attack. Transcripts of several genes, (e.g., PR1a, encoding a pathogenesis related protein, and GLP4, encoding a germin-like protein) accumulated specifically in resistant cells, while GRP94, encoding a molecular chaperone, accumulated in infected cells. Thus, the single-cell method allows discrimination of transcript profiles from resistant and infected cells. The method will be useful for microarray expression profiling for simultaneous analysis of many genes.
In the aleurone cells of the cereal grain, gibberellic acid (GA) induces the secretion of hydrolases that mobilize endosperm reserves to fuel early seedling growth. GA is known to trigger a range of cellular responses, including increases in cytoplasmic calcium, vacuolar reserve mobilization, gene transcription, and the synthesis and secretion of hydrolases. To further define elements of the Ca2+-dependent GA response machinery, we have cloned a Ca2+-dependent protein kinase (HvCDPK1) from these cells. Although expression of an inactivated (D140N) version of this kinase did not affect GA-induced gene expression or changes in cytosolic Ca2+, it did inhibit secretion, cell vacuolation, and vacuolar acidification, all responses linked to the GA response. Additionally, recombinant wild-type HvCDPK1 activated the V-type H(+)-ATPase present in isolated aleurone vacuoles. These results suggest HvCDPK1 may mediate Ca2+-dependent events of the GA response, such as control of vacuolar function, that lie downstream of transcriptional regulation.
A fast and highly efficient short-term in vitro regeneration system was developed for barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) based on readily available explants. Clumps of multiple shoots and buds suitable for transformation were obtained 9-10 weeks after culture initiation from model and current commercial cultivars. Meristematic shoot segments (MSSs) excised from mature embryo-derived seedlings and subsequently cultured on MS-based medium containing 2 mg/l Picloram and 3 mg/l thidiazuron (TDZ) differentiated up to ten multiple shoots after 3-4 weeks with no or very little callus formation. Sectors of the already multiplied shoot clumps were further multiplied on proliferation-maintenance medium containing 2 mg/l Picloram and 2.5 mg/l TDZ. Biweekly subcultures resulted in a continuous process of multiplication of these highly differentiating green sectors without any loss of morphogenic potential. The differentiated small shoots and shoot buds gave rise to normal shoots on medium with 0.1 mg/l Picloram and 1 mg/l TDZ. After rooting on basal medium with 0.5 mg/l or 1 mg/l IBA the plants were transferred to soil and showed normal growth and fertility compared to the seed-grown plants. All of the genotypes tested formed multiple shoots. The percentage of relative MSS multiplication was 63-83%, and the average number of multiplied shoots per MSS ranged from 16 to 34 among the genotypes after 9-11 weeks.
In this study, an Ac-based gene trap construct was engineered to increase gene trapping efficiency by an effective use of triple acceptor sites preceding a reporter gene. The target of the engineering process was a synthetic intron preceding the GUS reporter. Two different gene trap constructs were designed. In one construct, three of the sequence elements serving as signals for recognition of an intron 3' boundary were systematically modified to allow for almost optimal acceptor site recognition, while these sequences remained unchanged in the other construct. To compare recognition of the engineered intron with that of the unmodified intron, tester constructs were transiently transformed into barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) tissue and the accuracy and efficiency of splicing was determined by mRNA mapping and reporter-gene expression frequency analysis. By employing this test system, we could show that systematic engineering of the intron sequence elements results in advanced intron recognition, compared to the unmodified intron, and that all three acceptor sites were activated, but with unequal frequency. The impact of our findings on reporter expression in a gene-trap approach is discussed.
The internal conductance for CO(2) diffusion (g(i)) and CO(2) assimilation rate were measured and the related anatomical characteristics were investigated in transgenic rice leaves that overexpressed barley aquaporin HvPIP2;1. This study was performed to test the hypothesis that aquaporin facilitates CO(2) diffusion within leaves. The g(i) value was estimated for intact leaves by concurrent measurements of gas exchange and carbon isotope ratio. The leaves of the transgenic rice plants that expressed the highest levels of Aq-anti-HvPIP2;1 showed a 40% increase in g(i) as compared to g(i) in the leaves of wild-type rice plants. The increase in g(i) was accompanied by a 14% increase in CO(2) assimilation rate and a 27% increase in stomatal conductance (g(s)). The transgenic plants that had low levels of Aq-anti-HvPIP2;1 showed decreases in g(i) and CO(2) assimilation rate. In the plants with high levels of Aq-anti-HvPIP2;1, mesophyll cell size decreased and the cell walls of the epidermis and mesophyll cells thickened, indicating that the leaves had become xeromorphic. Although such anatomical changes could partially offset the increase in g(i) by the aquaporin, the increase in aquaporin content overcame such adverse effects.
The molecular basis of the barley dominant Hooded (K) mutant is a duplication of 305 bp in intron IV of the homeobox gene Bkn3. A chemical mutagenesis screen was carried out to identify genetical factors that participate in Bkn3 intron-mediated gene regulation. Plants from recurrently mutagenized KK seeds were examined for the suppression of the hooded awn phenotype induced by the K allele and, in total, 41 suK (suppressor of K) recessive mutants were identified. Complementation tests established the existence of five suK loci, and alleles suKB-4, suKC-33, suKD-25, suKE-74, and suKF-76 were studied in detail. All K-suppressed mutants showed a short-awn phenotype. The suK loci have been mapped by bulked segregant analysis nested in a standard mapping procedure based on AFLP markers. K suppressor loci suKB, B, E, and F all map in a short interval of chromosome 7H, while the locus suKD is assigned to chromosome 5H. A complementation test between the four suK mutants mapping on chromosome 7H and the short-awn mutant lks2, located nearby, excluded the allelism between suK loci and lks2. The last experiment made clear that the short-awn phenotype of suK mutants is due to a specific dominant function of the K allele, a function that is independent from the control on hood formation. The suK loci are discussed as candidate participants in the regulation of Bkn3 expression.
Malting quality has long been an active objective in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) breeding programs.However, it is difficult for breeders to manipulate malting-quality traits because of inheritance complexity and difficulty in evaluation of these quantitative traits. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping provides breeders a promising basis with which to manipulate quantitative trait genes. A malting-quality QTL complex, QTL2, was mapped previously to a 30-cM interval in the short-arm telomere region of barley chromosome 4H in a "Step-toe"/"Morex" doubled haploid population by the North American Barley Genome Project, using an interval mapping method with a relatively low-resolution genetic map. The QTL2 complex has moderate effects on several malting-quality traits, including malt extract percentage(ME), a-amylase activity (AA), diastatic power (DP), malt 13-glucan content (BG), and seed dormancy, which makes it a promising candidate gene source in malting barley-cultivar development. Fine mapping QTL2 is desirable for precisely studying barley malting-quality trait inheritance and for efficiently manipulating QTL2 in breeding. A reciprocal-substitution mapping method was employed to fine map QTL2. Molecular marker-assisted backcrossing was used to facilitate the generation of isolines. Fourteen different types of "Steptoe" isolines, including regenerated "Steptoe" and 13 different types of "Morex" isolines,including regenerated "Morex", were made within a 41.5-cM interval between MWG634 and BCD265B on chromosome 4H. Duplicates were identified for 12 "Steptoe" and 12 "Morex" isoline types. The isolines together with "Steptoe" and "Morex" were grown variously at three locations in 2 years for a total of five field environments.Four malting-quality traits were measured: ME, DP, AA,and BG. Few significant differences were found between duplicate isolines for these traits. A total of 15 putative QTLs were mapped; three for ME, four for DP, six for AA,and two for BG. Background genotype seemed to make a difference in expression/detection of QTLs. Of the 15 QTLs identified, ten were from the "Morex" and only five from the "Steptoe" background. By combining the results from different years, field environments, and genetic backgrounds and taking into account overlapping QTLsegments, six QTLs can be conservatively estimated: two each for ME and AA and one each for DP and BG with chromosome segments ranging from 0.7 cM to 27.9 cM. A segment of 15.8 cM from the telomere (MWG634-CDO669) includes all or a portion of all QTLs identified. Further study and marker-assisted breeding should focus on this 15.8-cM chromosome region.
Based solely on in vitro results, two contrasting models have been proposed for the recognition of the brome mosaic virus (BMV) subgenomic core promoter by the replicase. The first posits that the replicase recognizes at least four key nucleotides in the core promoter, followed by an induced fit, wherein some of the nucleotides base pair prior to the initiation of RNA synthesis (S. Adkins and C. C. Kao, Virology 252:1-8, 1998). The second model posits that a short RNA hairpin in the core promoter serves as a landing pad for the replicase and that at least some of the key nucleotides help form a stable hairpin (P. C. J. Haasnoot, F. Brederode, R. C. L. Olsthoorn, and J. Bol, RNA 6:708-716, 2000; P. C. J. Haasnoot, R. C. L. Olsthoorn, and J. Bol, RNA 8:110-122, 2002). We used transfected barley protoplasts to examine the recognition of the subgenomic core promoter by the BMV replicase. Key nucleotides required for subgenomic initiation in vitro were found to be important for RNA4 levels in protoplasts. In addition, additional residues not required in vitro and the formation of an RNA hairpin within the core promoter were correlated with wild-type RNA4 levels in cells. Using a template competition assay, the core promoter of ca. 20 nucleotides was found to be sufficient for replicase binding. Mutations of the key residues in the core promoter reduced replicase binding, but deletions that disrupt the predicted base pairing in the proposed stem retained binding at wild-type levels. Together, these results indicate that key nucleotides in the BMV subgenomic core promoter direct replicase recognition but that the formation of a stem-loop is required at a step after binding. Additional functional characterization of the subgenomic core promoter was performed. A portion of the promoter for BMV minus-strand RNA synthesis could substitute for the subgenomic core promoter in transfected cells. The comparable sequence from Cowpea Chlorotic Mottle Virus (CCMV) could also substitute for the BMV subgenomic core promoter. However, nucleotides in the CCMV core required for RNA synthesis are not identical to those in BMV, suggesting that the subgenomic core promoter can induce the BMV replicase in interactions needed for subgenomic RNA transcription in vivo.
Abscisic acid (ABA)-response promoter complexes (ABRCs), consisting of an ACGT core-containing element (ACGT box) and a coupling element (CE), have been shown to be necessary and sufficient for ABA induction of gene expression in cereal plants. In this work, the component elements of two ABRCs are defined in terms of base sequence, orientation, and distance from each other. The ACGT element requires the sequence 5'-ACGTGGC-3' and the elements CE1 and CE3 require the sequences CCACC and GCGTGTC, respectively. The ACGT element and CE3 are next to each other in the barley ABA-inducible gene HVA1, and lengthening the distance between them gradually decreases their activity in conferring ABA response. On the other hand, the ACGT element and CE1 are separated by about 20 bp in the promoter of another ABA-inducible gene, HVA22, and need to be separated by multiples of 10 bp in order to confer high ABA induction, suggesting that these two elements have to be located in the same side of the DNA double helix. Although the coupling between an ACGT box and a CE is sufficient for ABA induction, two copies of the ACGT element are equally active. However, two copies of CE3 appear to be less active. Specific interactions between ABRC and nuclear proteins have been detected. In vitro binding activities of nuclear proteins to an ABRC and to its mutant forms appear to be proportional to the biological activities of these sequences in vivo. Our data suggest that the specific response to ABA is determined by the presence of two ACGT boxes or an ACGT box plus a CE as well as by the flanking sequences of the ACGT boxes and the CEs.
The causal agent of rice blast disease, the ascomycete fungus Magnaporthe grisea, infects rice (Oryza sativa) plants by means of specialized infection structures called appressoria, which are formed on the leaf surface and mechanically rupture the cuticle. We have identified a gene, Magnaporthe metallothionein 1 (MMT1), which is highly expressed throughout growth and development by M. grisea and encodes an unusual 22-amino acid metallothionein-like protein containing only six Cys residues. The MMT1-encoded protein shows a very high affinity for zinc and can act as a powerful antioxidant. Targeted gene disruption of MMT1 produced mutants that show accelerated hyphal growth rates and poor sporulation but had no effect on metal tolerance. Mmt1 mutants are incapable of causing plant disease because of an inability to bring about appressorium-mediated cuticle penetration. Mmt1 appears to be distributed in the inner side of the cell wall of the fungus. These findings indicate that Mmt1-like metallothioneins may play a novel role in fungal cell wall biochemistry that is required for fungal virulence.
In order to isolate genes involved in the early acclimation of winter barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Trixi) to a combined cold and light stress of 2 degrees C and 600 micromol m(-2) s(-1) restriction fragment differential display-polymerase chain reaction was performed. Impact of the cold-treatment on the leaves was characterized by measuring chlorophyll content and photosystem II efficiency. By this approach several cDNAs of genes that quickly and transiently up-regulated during early stages of the stress were identified. One of these genes (HvFP1) includes sequence motifs representing a heavy metal associated domain (HMA), nuclear localization signals (NLS) and a farnesylation motif. This gene is also induced at drought stress, during leaf senescence and after exposure to abscisic acid. Analysis of its spatial expression patterns in barley plants either grown at 21 or 2 degrees C showed that in contrast to the situation in leaves transcript level of this gene is high not only in cold-treated plants but also in controls kept at 21 degrees C in plant compartments enriched in meristematic tissues. The nuclear localization of the protein was confirmed by confocal laser scanning microscopy of epidermal onion cells after particle bombardment with chimeric HVFP1-GFP constructs. Using a construct with a modified farnesylation motif yielded a different pattern of nuclear distribution of the chimeric protein.
Puroindolines (PIN) are low molecular weight, cysteine-rich, endosperm-specific, basic proteins with a unique tryptophan-rich domain found in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) as well as other members of Triticaceae. PINs appear to be involved in both flour softness as well as resistance against fungal diseases. These proteins are known to be the major components of 'friabilin' associated with the surface of water washed starch grains and possess lipid binding properties. Structural characterization of puroindolines from Triticum monococum was initiated by amplifying and subsequently cloning the corresponding pin gene into an expression vector, known as pET-32a(+). The protein contains five tryptophanin domains and ten cysteine residues. The pinB gene was fused with the 109aa Trx.Tag thioredoxin for a high-level expression. The cloning sites used for producing fusion proteins also contained cleavable His.Tag and S.tag sequences for detection and purification. After transformation of competent Origami cells, fusion protein expression was detected by growing a transformant in LB medium in the presence of 0.1 mM IPTG at room temperature for 6 hrs on a shaker. Both soluble and insoluble fusion proteins were extracted from Origami cells after sonication. Ni-NTA column (Qiagen) was used to extract and purify these fractions. Following an overnight digestion of the recombinant protein with enterokinase at room temperature, the corresponding fractions were electrophoresed in polyacrylamide gel, electroblotted onto a nitrocellulose membrane and cross-reacted with the anti-friabilin monoclonal antibody. We found that the recombinant PINB protein had a molecular weight of 16 kDa whereas TrxB was 21 kDa. Fusion protein ran at 34 kDa. PINB protein from wheat was shown to be immunologically related to a homologue, tryptophanin, in oat seed. Further study is currently underway to characterize these proteins structurally using NMR.
BAX inhibitor-1 (BI-1) proteins have been characterized as suppressors of programmed cell death in mammals and plants. The barley BI-1 is a suppressor of nonspecific background resistance and mlo-mediated penetration resistance to the biotrophic fungal pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei when overexpressed in epidermal cells of barley. We report here that BI-1 expression is also slightly up-regulated during interaction with the inappropriate wheat pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici. Significantly, overexpression of BI-1 in single epidermal cells of barley by microprojectile-mediated transformation rendered cells susceptible to penetration by inappropriate B. graminis f. sp. tritici. The degree of transgene-induced accessibility to B. graminis f. sp. tritici was thereby similar to the effect achieved by overexpression of the defense suppressor gene Mlo and could not be further enhanced by double expression of both BI-1 and Mlo. Confocal laser scanning microscopy was used to locate a functional green fluorescing GFP:BI-1 fusion protein in endomembranes and the nuclear envelope of barley epidermal cells. Together, enhanced expression of barley BI-1 suppresses penetration resistance to B. graminis f. sp. tritici, linking barley nonhost resistance with cell death regulation.
Cleistogamy is a closed type of flowering with ensured self-pollination and an important trait to study evolutionary development in flower organs, reproduction systems, gene flow, and disease control. Still, very limited information is available about the genetic control and regulatory mechanism of this trait in barley. In this work, from the eight crosses between cleistogamous and chasmogamous accessions, five crosses generated chasmogamous F1 plants and their F2 plants segregated as 3 chasmogamous:1 cleistogamous, whereas three crosses generated cleistogamous F1 plants, and their F2 plants segregated as 1 chasmogamous:3 cleistogamous. Although a single gene was responsible for the control of cleistogamy in these two groups of crosses, the direction of dominance was opposite, suggesting two genes, cly1 and Cly2, for the genetic control of cleistogamy in barley. Epistatic type of gene interaction between the two loci was detected. In the analysis of 99 recombinant inbred lines of 'Azumamugi' x 'Kanto Nakate Gold' and doubled haploid lines of 'Harrington' x 'Mikamo Golden', where in both crosses F1 was chasmogamous, the cly1 locus has been mapped on chromosome 2HL. Using the analysis of the F2 population of 'Misato Golden' and 'Satsuki Nijo' where F1 was cleistogamous, the Cly2 locus was mapped in the same region of chromosome 2HL. Because the cly1 and Cly2 loci were mapped in the same region in these three different mapping populations, it was concluded that the expression of cleistogamy is under the control of two tightly linked genes or different alleles of the same gene.
The soil-borne barley yellow mosaic virus disease (BaMMV, BaYMV, BaYMV-2) and the aphid-transmitted barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) are serious threats to winter barley cultivation. Resistance to barley yellow mosaic virus disease has been identified in extensive screening programmes and several recessive resistance genes have been mapped, e.g. rym4, rym5, rym9, rym11, rym13. In contrast to barley yellow mosaic virus disease, no complete resistance to BYDV is known in the barley gene pool, but tolerant accessions have been identified and QTL for BYDV-tolerance have been detected on chromosomes 2HL and 3HL. The use of resistance and tolerance in barley breeding can be considerably improved today by molecular markers (RFLPs, RAPDs, AFLPs, SSRs, STSs, SNPs), as they facilitate (i) efficient genotyping and estimation of genetic diversity; (ii) reliable selection on a single plant level independent of symptom expression in the field (iii) acceleration of back crossing procedures; (iv) pyramiding of resistance genes; (v) detection of QTL and marker-based combination of positive alleles; and (vi) isolation of resistance genes via map-based cloning.
We have identified the barley gene and cDNA encoding the plastid phage-type RNA polymerase (RNAP), nuclear-encoded plastid RNAP (RpoTp), and the nearly full-length cDNA of the mitochondrial RNAP, nuclear-encoded mitochondrial RNAP (RpoTm). RpoTp spans more than 9000 nt, consists of 19 exons and 18 introns, gives rise to a 3632-nt mRNA and is localized to the long arm of chromosome 1 (7H). The length of the deduced polypeptide is 948 residues. The mRNA levels of RpoTp and RpoTm were determined in roots and primary leaf sections of 7-day-old barley seedlings of the albostrians mutant, which were either phenotypically normal and exhibited a gradient of chloroplast development, or contained ribosome-deficient undifferentiated plastids. Transcript levels of RpoTp and RpoTm in almost all sections reached higher concentrations in plastid ribosome-deficient leaves than in the wild-type material, except in the most basal part of the leaf. These data indicate a role of plastid-to-nucleus signalling in the expression of the two RpoT genes. The mRNA levels of the plastid genes, beta-subunit of plastid-encoded RNAP (rpoB), proteolytic subunit of the Clp protease (clpP) and ribosomal protein Rpl2 (rpl2), all known to be transcribed by the nuclear-encoded RNAP (NEP), followed closely the pattern of RpoTp mRNA accumulation, strongly suggesting that RpoTp and NEP are identical. Transcripts of RpoTm and RpoTm-transcribed mitochondrial genes cytochrome oxidase subunit 2 (coxII) and ATPase subunit 9 (atp9) accumulated to the highest levels in the most basal parts of the leaf and declined considerably towards the leaf tip with a pronounced reduction in green versus white leaves. Our data revealed a marked influence of the developmental stage of the plastid on the expression and activity of organellar phage-type RNAPs and their target genes. Thus, interorganellar cross-talk in the regulated expression of nuclear-encoded plastid and mitochondrial RNAP genes might be a key element governing the concerted expression of genes located within plastids, mitochondria and the nucleus of the plant cell.
The naturally occurring enantiomer of the various octadecanoids and jasmonates is established in a biosynthetic step catalyzed by the allene oxide cyclase (AOC). The AOC converts an allene oxide formed by an allene oxide synthase (AOS). Here, we show cloning and characterization of cDNAs encoding the AOC and a third AOS, respectively, in addition to the two AOSs previously published (Plant J. 21, 199-213, 2000). The ORF of the AOC-cDNA of 717 bp codes for a protein of 238 amino acid residues carrying a putative chloroplast target sequence. Overexpression without chloroplast target sequence revealed AOC activity. The AOC was found to be a single copy gene which mapped on chromosome 6H. AOC mRNA accumulation appeared in leaf segments upon treatment with various jasmonates, octadecanoids and ABA or during stress such as treatment with sorbitol or glucose solutions. Infection with powdery mildew activated AOC expression in susceptible and resistant lines of barley which correlated with PR1b expression. Among different tissues of barley seedlings, the scutellar node and leaf base accumulated AOC mRNA preferentially which correlated with accumulation of mRNAs for other biosynthetic enzymes (lipoxygenases, AOSs). AOC mRNA accumulation appeared also abundantly in parts of the root containing the tip and correlated with elevated levels of jasmonates. The data suggest a link of AOC expression and JA formation and support role of JA in stress responses and development of barley.
We performed cytological and molecular analyses of the interaction between the biotrophic barley powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei and white and green leaves of the barley albostrians mutant. The leaves have the same nuclear genotype but differ from each other in respect to plastid differentiation. White leaves showed enhanced penetration resistance to B. graminis f. sp. hordei, associated with higher epidermal H2O2 accumulation beneath the appressorial germ tubes and protein cross-linking in papillae. Very low basal salicylic acid content was found in white leaves, which further confirmed that H2O2 accumulation and penetration resistance in barley are independent of salicylic acid. Expression analysis of stress and defense-related genes, including such being involved in reactive oxygen species production and cell death regulation, revealed stronger constitutive or pathogen-induced transcript accumulation in white leaves. We discuss the data on the basis of the finding that white albostrians leaves exhibit a supersusceptible interaction phenotype with the hemibiotrophic fungus Bipolaris sorokiniana.
Bipolaris sorokiniana (teleomorph: Cochliobolus sativus) is a cereal pathogen of increasing global concern, with most significance in Asiatic cropping systems. In order to gain insight into the mechanism of host resistance, we studied fungal development on the supersusceptible barley mutant albostrians and its parent cv. Haisa. A microscopic dissection of early fungal growth on Haisa and green albostrians leaves revealed a distinct epidermis-localized biotrophic and a mesophyll-based necrotrophic phase. White, green, and striped white-green albostrians leaves showed extreme differences in disease development. When comparing cellular defense responses, we found restriction of fungal spreading after successful infection of host mesophyll tissue to be the most important mechanism limiting outbreak of the disease. Colonization of susceptible green leaves, but not extreme colonization of supersusceptible white albostrians leaves, was associated with macroscopically visible lesion formation and mesophyll accumulation of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), implying a symptomless growth of the pathogen in supersusceptible host tissue. In contrast, early epidermal papilla-based resistance was closely linked to H2O2 accumulation in all leaf types. In white leaves, ascorbate peroxidase (APX), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), and the cell death regulator Bax-inhibitor-1 (BI-1) showed a stronger constitutive or pathogen responsive activation, whereas glycolate oxidase (GLOX) and catalase (CAT2) expression was stronger in green leaves. We discuss supersusceptibility and symptomless growth on the basis of the histochemical and the gene expression data.
In the establishment of the legume-rhizobial symbiosis, bacterial lipochitooligosaccharide signaling molecules termed Nod factors activate the formation of a novel root organ, the nodule. Nod factors elicit several responses in plant root hair cells, including oscillations in cytoplasmic calcium levels (termed calcium spiking) and alterations in root hair growth. A number of plant mutants with defects in the Nod factor signaling pathway have been identified. One such Medicago truncatula mutant, dmi3, exhibits calcium spiking and root hair swelling in response to Nod factor, but fails to initiate symbiotic gene expression or cell divisions for nodule formation. On the basis of these data, it is thought that the dmi3 mutant perceives Nod factor but fails to transduce the signal downstream of calcium spiking. Additionally, the dmi3 mutant is defective in the symbiosis with mycorrhizal fungi, indicating the importance of the encoded protein in multiple symbioses. We report the identification of the DMI3 gene, using a gene cloning method based on transcript abundance. We show that transcript-based cloning is a valid approach for cloning genes in barley, indicating the value of this technology in crop plants. DMI3 encodes a calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase. Mutants in pea sym9 have phenotypes similar to dmi3 and have alterations in this gene. The DMI3 class of proteins is well conserved among plants that interact with mycorrhizal fungi, but it is less conserved in Arabidopsis thaliana, which does not participate in the mycorrhizal symbiosis.
Direct estimates of sequence diversity provides an abundant source of DNA polymorphisms based on single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The frequency and distribution of nucleotide diversity within 23 genes associated with grain germination in barley were determined in a sample of accessions representing European cultivars, landraces, and wild barley accessions from throughout the fertile crescent. The overall nucleotide diversity ranged from 0.0021 to 0.0189 with a single nucleotide change being detected every 78 bp and insertion-deletion events being observed every 680 bp. Within the cultivated (H. vulgare) genepool, a small number of haplotypes were detected, the total number of haplotypes observed in H. spontaneum was almost double that detected in H. vulgare (46 and 26, respectively). Distinct haplotypes were observed in the H. spontaneum and landrace genepools, which are highly divergent from H. vulgare. A comparison of SNP-based haplotype data with EST-derived SSRs and genomic SSRs revealed a similar trend of decreasing variability in the cultivated genepool. However, the number of unique alleles identified in the cultivated sample was much greater with genomic SSRs (18%) compared with only 2.1% for SNPs and 3.8% for EST-derived SSRs. The potential utility of SNPs and EST-derived SSRs for association mapping in barley is discussed.
Jasmonic acid (JA) and its derivatives are well-characterized signaling molecules in plant defense and development, but the site of their localization within plant tissue is entirely unknown. To address the question whether applied JA accumulates extracellularly or intracellularly, leaves of tomato and barley were fed with 14C-labeled JA and the label was localized in cryofixed and lyophilized leaf tissues by microautoradiography. In tomato the radioactivity was detectable within the apoplast, but no label was found within the mesophyll cells. By contrast, in barley leaf tissues, radioactivity was detected within the mesophyll cells suggesting a cellular uptake of exogenously applied JA. JA, applied to leaves of both plants as in the labeling experiments, led in all leaf cells to the expression of JA-inducible genes indicating that the perception is completed by JA signal transduction.
In recent years, access to complete genomic sequences, coupled with rapidly accumulating data related to RNA and protein expression patterns, has made it possible to determine comprehensively how genes contribute to complex phenotypes. However, for major crop plants, publicly available, standard platforms for parallel expression analysis have been limited. We report the conception and design of the new publicly available, 22K Barley1 GeneChip probe array, a model for plants without a fully sequenced genome. Array content was derived from worldwide contribution of 350,000 high-quality ESTs from 84 cDNA libraries, in addition to 1,145 barley (Hordeum vulgare) gene sequences from the National Center for Biotechnology Information nonredundant database. Conserved sequences expressed in seedlings of wheat (Triticum aestivum), oat (Avena strigosa), rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and maize (Zea mays) were identified that will be valuable in the design of arrays across grasses. To enhance the usability of the data, BarleyBase, a MIAME-compliant, MySQL relational database, serves as a public repository for raw and normalized expression data from the Barley1 GeneChip probe array. Interconnecting links with PlantGDB and Gramene allow BarleyBase users to perform gene predictions using the 21,439 non-redundant Barley1 exemplar sequences or cross-species comparison at the genome level, respectively. We expect that this first generation array will accelerate hypothesis generation and gene discovery in disease defense pathways, responses to abiotic stresses, development, and evolutionary diversity in monocot plants.
By comparison with dicot plant species, relatively little work has been reported on the phosphate transporter (Pht1) gene family from monocot species. Initial studies have shown that barley contains at least eight homologous genes. The promoters of six of these genes were analysed for the presence of regulatory elements potentially associated with expression specificity. In particular, the P1BS-like elements (implicated in phosphorus-regulated expression of genes in plants) was identified in all HvPht1 promoters examined. For two members of the family (HvPht1;1 and HvPht1;2), promoter fusions to beta-glucuronidase and green fluorescent protein reporter genes were constructed, transformed into rice, and the expression profiles observed. The inclusion of an intron derived from Adh1 enhanced gene expression approximately 20-fold, but did not appear to affect the specificity of expression. The HvPht1;1 and HvPht1;2 promoters showed minor differences in expression patterns but, in general, expression was observed at high levels in trichoblast cells (root hairs) and stele of the nodal root, throughout secondary roots, and at a relatively low level in leaf tissues. Under phosphorus deficiency, expression was induced by up to 5-fold. These observations are consistent with a primary role for the encoded genes in the uptake of phosphate by root hairs from soil solution and further current understanding of the mechanisms involved. The promoters also have application for providing a new resource for cereal transformation, ideally suited for driving the expression of foreign genes associated with nutrient uptake.
Plants with a winter growth habit flower earlier when exposed for several weeks to cold temperatures, a process called vernalization. We report here the positional cloning of the wheat vernalization gene VRN2, a dominant repressor of flowering that is down-regulated by vernalization. Loss of function of VRN2, whether by natural mutations or deletions, resulted in spring lines, which do not require vernalization to flower. Reduction of the RNA level of VRN2 by RNA interference accelerated the flowering time of transgenic winter-wheat plants by more than a month.
Cinnamoyl CoA reductase catalyzes the reduction of cinnamic acid CoA esters into their corresponding aldehydes, the first step of the phenylpropanoid pathway specifically dedicated to monolignol biosynthesis. Two cDNA clones encoding cinnamoyl CoA reductase (CCR) have been isolated from Hordeum vulgare (HvCCR) and Solanum tuberosum (StCCR1). Amino acid sequence alignment revealed the motif, NWYCY, representing the active site of CCR, conserved in both the encoded HvCCR and StCCR1 amino acid sequences. The HvCCR encoded protein possesses substantial homology with CCRs isolated and cloned form other sources; the highest identity (89%) was observed with CCR from fescue (Festuca arundicinea). Expression analysis by RT-PCR demonstrated that the HvCCR gene is expressed in barley stem and root tissue while no expression is detected in leaves and flowers. This expression pattern suggests that HvCCR is involved in constitutive lignification. Transcripts of StCCR1 were detected in potato root, leaf and also in stem although at a very low level.
Previously we have cloned sucrose: fructan-6-fructosyltransferase (6-SFT) from barley (Hordeum vulgare) and proposed that synthesis of fructans in grasses depends on the concerted action of two main enzymes: sucrose: sucrose-1-fructosyltransferase (1-SST), as in other fructan producing plants, and 6-SFT, found only in grasses.  Here we report the cloning of barley 1-SST, verifying the activity of the encoded protein by expression in Pichia pastoris. As expected, the barley 1-SST is homologous to invertases and fructosyltransferases, and in particular to barley 6-SFT.  The gene expression pattern of 1-SST and 6-SFT, along with the corresponding enzyme activities and fructan levels, were investigated in excised barley leaves subjected to a light-dark regime known to sequentially induce fructan accumulation and mobilization. The turnover of transcripts and enzyme activities of 1-SST and 6-SFT was compared, using appropriate inhibitors.  We found the 1-SST transcripts and enzymatic activity respond quickly, being subject to a rapid turnover. By contrast, the 6-SFT transcripts and enzymatic activity were found to be much more stable. The much higher responsiveness of 1-SST to regulatory processes, as compared with 6-SFT, clearly indicates that 1-SST plays the role of the pacemaker enzyme of fructan synthesis in barley leaves.
Barley, which is high in soluble dietary fiber (particularly beta-glucan), is thought to have hypocholesterolemic effects. The present study was performed to further elucidate the hypocholesterolemic actions of waxy barley, and the extent to which they can be attributed to beta-glucan. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=21) were fed control (fiber-free) diets, diets with the addition of 2.5%, refined beta-glucan or 30% waxy barley that provides approximately 2.5% beta-glucan in the diet for 2 wk. Body weight gain and food efficiency of rats were unaffected by diet. beta-glucan or waxy barley decreased serum levels of total cholesterol (p < 0.05) by 13.5% or 18.9%, and also decreased LDL-cholesterol 19.4% or 24.3%, respectively. Addition of refined beta-glucan or waxy barley to the diet resulted in greater bile acid excretions (p < 0.05) compared to the control group. The waxy barley diet up-regulated by 2. 3 times and the beta-glucan diet by 1.5 times the activity of cholesterol 7a-hydroxylase (CYP7A1). Hepatic CYP7A1 mRNA level paralleled the increases in enzyme activity. The results of this study suggest that the hypocholesterolemic effects of both beta-glucan and a waxy barley diet may be due to the enhancement of CYP7A1 expression resulting from increased fecal excretion of bile acids.
Different aspects of barley grain development have been studied in detail, but a more global analysis of gene expression patterns is still missing. We have employed macro arrays, containing 1184 unique sequences from 1421 barley cDNA fragments, to study gene expression profiles in maternal and filial tissues of developing barley caryopses from fertilization to early storage phase. Principle component analysis (PCA) defined distinct expression networks in the pre-storage (0, 2, and 4 days after flowering (DAF)) and early storage phase (10 and 12 DAF). During an intermediate phase (6 and 8 DAF), PCA visualizes a dramatic re-programming of the transcriptional machinery. In maternal tissues, a large set of protein-mobilizing enzyme mRNAs, together with upregulated lipid-mobilizing enzyme and downregulated reactive oxygen species (ROS)-scavenging enzyme genes, suggests mobilization of stored compounds and programmed cell death (PCD). In the filial tissue fraction, a set of genes highly expressed during the pre-storage phase is involved in growth processes, including cell wall biosynthesis. The data suggest that the necessary UDP-glucose is provided both by sucrose synthase (isoform 3) and an invertase-driven pathway. Further, major developmental changes in pathways producing energy are predicted. A bell-shaped expression profile with a peak during the intermediate phase is characteristic for genes associated with photosynthesis and ATP production. The photosynthesis-determined increase of ATP concentration could be a prerequisite for the initiation of grain filling, dominated by starch and storage protein synthesis. Storage product accumulation is accompanied by high transcriptional activity of genes involved in glycolysis and fermentation, as well as in the citric acid cycle.
A putative barley (1 --> 3)-beta-D-glucan synthase cDNA of 6.1 kb, which is homologous to the yeast FKS gene, was assembled from DNA fragments obtained through screening of barley cDNA and BAC libraries, and by PCR amplification. The corresponding gene, designated HvGSL1, is a member of a family of at least six genes in barley. Gene transcripts are detected at relatively high levels in early developing grain, florets, coleoptiles and roots, but not in leaves infected with a fungal pathogen. A (1 --> 3)-beta-D-glucan synthase has been purified more than 60-fold from barley suspension-cultured cells by detergent extraction, CaCl2 treatment, sucrose density gradient centrifugation and non-denaturing gel electrophoresis. The enzyme synthesizes (1 --> 3)-beta-D-glucan in vitro and is recognized by antibodies raised against a 17 kDa protein generated by heterologous expression of a fragment of the HvGSL1 cDNA. Furthermore, mass spectrometric analyses show that tryptic peptides produced by in-gel digestion of the active enzyme match peptides predicted from the gene sequence. Thus, the amino acid sequence predicted from the HvGSL1 gene has been linked with the actual amino acid sequence of an active (1 --> 3)-beta-D-glucan synthase fraction from barley.
Putative phosphate transporters have been identified in a barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) genomic library by their homology to known phosphate transporters from dicot species. The genes designated HORvu;Pht1;1 and HORvu;Pht1;6 encode proteins of 521 and 535 amino acids respectively with 12 predicted membrane-spanning domains and other motifs common to the Phtl family of phosphate transporters. HORvu;Pht1;1 is expressed exclusively in roots and is strongly induced by phosphate deprivation. HORvu;Pht1;6 is expressed in the aerial parts of the plant with strongest expression in old leaves and flag leaves. In situ hybridization showed that HORvu;Pht1;6 is expressed in the phloem of vascular bundles in leaves and ears. In order to study the biochemical properties of HORvu;Pht1;1 and HORvu;Pht1;6, the genes were expressed in transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants under the control of the rice actin promoter and suspension cell cultures were generated. Cells derived from transgenic plants were able to take up phosphate at a much higher rate than control cells, demonstrating that both genes encode functional phosphate transporters. The estimated Km for phosphate for cells expressing HORvu;Pht1;1 was 9.06 +/- 0.82 microM, which is characteristic of a high-affinity transporter. The rate of phosphate uptake decreased with increasing pH, suggesting that HORvu;Pht1;1 operates as a H+/H2PO4(-) symporter. In contrast, the estimated Km for phosphate for cells expressing HORvu;Pht1;6 was 385 +/- 61 microM, which is characteristic of a low-affinity transporter. Taken together, the results suggest that HORvu;Pht1;1 functions in uptake of phosphate at the root surface, while HORvu;Pht1;6 probably functions in remobilization of stored phosphate from leaves.
Two cDNA clones encoding vacuolar H+-inorganic pyrophosphatase (HVP1 and HVP10), one clone encoding the catalytic subunit (68 kDa) of vacuolar H+-ATPase (HvVHA-A), and one clone encoding vacuolar Na+/H+ antiporter (HvNHX1) were isolated from barley (Hordeum vulgare), a salt-tolerant crop. Salt stress increased the transcript levels of HVP1, HVP10, HvVHA-A, and HvNHX1, and osmotic stress also increased the transcript levels of HVP1 and HvNHX1 in barley roots. The transcription of HVP1 in response to salt stress was regulated differently from that of HVP10. In addition, the HVP1 expression changed in a pattern similar to that of HvNHX1 expression. These results indicate that the expression of HVP1 is co-ordinated with that of HvNHX1 in barley roots in response to salt and osmotic stresses.
Methylation of plant promoters is often associated with transcriptional gene silencing, while methylation of the transcribed region is associated with post-transcriptional gene silencing. Promoter complexes that include the first untranslated exon and intron, such as maize ubiquitin1 and rice actin1, have been widely used in monocot transformation because they support higher levels of transient transgene expression than the core promoter does. However, persistent problems with transgene silencing driven by these promoter complexes brought up a troubling question: were higher initial levels of transgene expression at the expense of long-term expression stability? Here we report that methylation of an untranslated exon and intron in the promoter complex is correlated with transcriptional transgene silencing in barley. Two sibling sublines, designated T(3)30 and T(3)31, were identified in a homozygous T3 population from a single transgenic parental line. In the T6 generation, all progeny of one subline, T(3)30, expressed ubiquitin-driven bar and uidA, but both transgenes were transcriptionally silenced in the other subline, T(3)31. Although the structure of the transgene locus is complex, no differences in the physical structure or location of the locus were detected between the two sublines. Transcriptional transgene silencing in T(3)31 correlated with two molecular events: methylation of the first untranslated exon and 5' end of the intron of the promoter complex, and condensation of the chromatin in regions containing transgenes. Passage of the non-silenced subline through in vitro culture recreated the silenced phenotype of T(3)31 and the molecular events leading to its silencing.
Hordeum chilense is a wild relative of H. vulgare, cultivated barley, that has been successfully used in the synthesis of amphiploids by crossing with Triticum spp. These amphiploids-named generically x Tritordeum-have been tested under field conditions, and one of them, the hexaploid tritordeum obtained following chromosome doubling of the hybrid H. chilense x T. turgidum, shows traits of interest inherited from the barley parent. Of great interest is the allelic variation observed in the endosperm storage proteins and their influence on the breadmaking and malting quality of tritordeum. We report here two mRNA (cDNA) sequences for a gamma-3 hordein from two accession lines of H. chilense, H1 and H7, and their characterization by quantitative real time (QRT)-PCR in the developing endosperm. Sequences were obtained by rapid amplification of cDNA ends and "edge-to-edge" amplification of open reading frames from cDNA of H. chilense. Eight putative single nucleotide polymorphisms and one codon insertion were identified in the sequences of the H1 and H7 gamma-3 hordeins. The deduced amino acid sequences showed similar features to that of the gamma-3 hordein and gamma-gliadins from barley and wheat, respectively. While the repetitive motif (PQQQPF) is similar to that of the gamma-3 hordein from H. vulgare, there are 19 motif repeats in H. vulgare, whereas H. chilense shows 15 tandem repeats. The transcription of the genes encoding for the gamma-3 hordein were monitored by QRT-PCR: in both lines maximum transcription occurred 12 days after flowering.
Apetala2/ethylene-responsive factor (AP2/ERF) proteins are AP2 domain-containing transcription factors and form the second largest transcription factor family in plants. Biological functions of many of these AP2 proteins are still unknown. Here, we report the characterisation of a novel member of the AP2/ERF superfamily, dehydration-responsive factor 1 (HvDRF1) from barley, and its role in abscisic acid (ABA)-mediated gene regulation. The expression of HvDRF1 was upregulated in barley leaves and roots under drought, salt or ABA treatment, and in embryos during seed maturation. Three forms of HvDRF1 transcripts were produced through alternative splicing, two of which encoded AP2 proteins. This alternative splicing pattern was also observed in a wheat homologue gene, TaDRF1. Both of HvDRF1 AP2 proteins acted as transcriptional activators, capable of activating the promoter activity of an ABA-inducible HVA1s in barley. In vitro DNA-binding analysis using synthetic oligonucleotides revealed that HvDRF1 AP2 protein bound preferably to a CT-rich element (T(T/A)ACCGCCTT). HvDRF1 activity on the activation of HVA1s expression in barley leaves was markedly enhanced by HvABI5 (a bZIP transcription factor), ABA or drought treatment. These results indicate that the HvDRF1 transcriptional activator co-operates with other ABA-responsive factors in the upregulation of stress gene expression through an ABA-dependent pathway.
Germinlike proteins (GLP) are encoded in plants by a gene family with proposed functions in plant development and defense. Genes of GLP subfamily 4 of barley (HvGLP4, formerly referred to as HvOxOLP) and the wheat orthologue TaGLP4 (formerly referred to as TaGLP2a) were previously found to be expressed in pathogen-attacked epidermal tissue of barley and wheat leaves, and the corresponding proteins are proposed to accumulate in the apoplast. Here, the role of HvGLP4 and TaGLP4 in the defense of barley and wheat against Blumeria graminis (DC.) E. O. Speer, the cereal powdery mildew fungus, was examined in an epidermal transient expression system and in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants overexpressing His-tagged HvGLP4. Leaf extracts of transgenic Arabidopsis overexpressing HvGLP4 contained a novel His-tagged protein with superoxide dismutase activity and HvGLP4 epitopes. Transient overexpression of TaGLP4 and HvGLP4 enhanced resistance against B. graminis in wheat and barley, whereas transient silencing by RNA interference reduced basal resistance in both cereals. The effect of GLP4 overexpression or silencing was strongly influenced by the genotype of the plant. The data suggest that members of GLP subfamily 4 are components of quantitative resistance in both barley and wheat, acting together with other, as yet unknown, plant components.
Barley HvPIP2;1 is a plasma membrane aquaporin and its expression was down-regulated after salt stress in barley [Katsuhara et al. (2002) Plant Cell Physiol. 43: 885]. We produced and analyzed transgenic rice plants over-expressing barley HvPIP2;1 in the present study. Over-expression of HvPIP2;1 increased (1) radial hydraulic conductivity of roots (Lp(r)) to 140%, and (2) the mass ratio of shoot to root up to 150%. In these transgenic rice plants under salt stress of 100 mM NaCl, growth reduction was greater than in non-transgenic plants. A decrease in shoot water content (from 79% to 61%) and reduction of root mass or shoot mass (both less than 40% of non-stressed plants) were observed in transgenic plants under salt stress for 2 weeks. These results indicated that over-expression of HvPIP2;1 makes rice plants sensitive to 100 mM NaCl. The possible involvement of aquaporins in salt tolerance is discussed.
Sequence data from cDNA and genomic clones, coupled with analyses of expressed sequence tag databases, indicate that the CesA (cellulose synthase) gene family from barley (Hordeum vulgare) has at least eight members, which are distributed across the genome. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction has been used to determine the relative abundance of mRNA transcripts for individual HvCesA genes in vegetative and floral tissues, at different stages of development. To ensure accurate expression profiling, geometric averaging of multiple internal control gene transcripts has been applied for the normalization of transcript abundance. Total HvCesA mRNA levels are highest in coleoptiles, roots, and stems and much lower in floral tissues, early developing grain, and in the elongation zone of leaves. In most tissues, HvCesA1, HvCesA2, and HvCesA6 predominate, and their relative abundance is very similar; these genes appear to be coordinately transcribed. A second group, comprising HvCesA4, HvCesA7, and HvCesA8, also appears to be coordinately transcribed, most obviously in maturing stem and root tissues. The HvCesA3 expression pattern does not fall into either of these two groups, and HvCesA5 transcript levels are extremely low in all tissues. Thus, the HvCesA genes fall into two general groups of three genes with respect to mRNA abundance, and the co-expression of the groups identifies their products as candidates for the rosettes that are involved in cellulose biosynthesis at the plasma membrane. Phylogenetic analysis allows the two groups of genes to be linked with orthologous Arabidopsis CesA genes that have been implicated in primary and secondary wall synthesis.
The expression of a gene, designated as DHN10, was analyzed at the protein level in two Solanum species. The DHN10 protein displays some consensus amino acid sequences of dehydrins, termed K- and S-segments. Unlike most dehydrins, both segments occur only in single copies in the DHN10 sequence and the S-segment is at a C-terminal position. Database searches revealed that KS-type dehydrins constitute a specific subclass distributed in dicotyledons and monocotyledons. In Solanum tuberosum L. plants, a high DHN10 abundance was observed under control conditions, particularly in flowers, stems, tubers and young developing leaves. In other Solanaceae and in barley ( Hordeum vulgare L.), the amount of DHN10 was much more elevated in young leaves than in old leaves. DHN10 abundance was investigated in two Solanum species subjected to low temperature or to drought. Under stress conditions, we observed substantially higher protein levels only in mature expanded leaves. These findings clearly indicate that KS-type dehydrins are present at a high level in the absence of stress during vegetative growth and that their expression is primarily regulated by factors related to organ type and to leaf development stage. A potential role for the DHN10 dehydrin during plant development and in tolerance to environmental stress is discussed.
Four doubled haploid barley lines (A, C, D, E) derived from gfp (green fluorescent protein) transformation and selection following particle bombardment of microspores were studied for gene expression pattern and the location of genome inserts. The integration sites were detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using the gfp plasmid DNA as a probe. Plants from events A, C, D and E all have a single insert site on chromosome 7L(5HL) at different locations while line E has a second insert site on chromosome 5S(7HS). All original transgenic plants were hemizygous for the transgenes and segregated in the T1 and T2 generations. Although line D had no GFP expression, FISH and PCR could detect gfp gene on its chromosome in transformed plants. Expression levels of GFP varied with lines and tissues examined. Plants from line C showed good expression in pollen and an intermediate level in root tips. Plants from A have intermediate expression of GFP in the pollen and light expression in the root tips. Line E showed strong expression in the root-tips and an intermediate level of GFP in the pollen. Lines A and C segregated as a single Mendelian locus while E segregated in a duplicate loci ratio (15:1) on seedling root tips but had low expression frequency in the pollen. PCR results were consistent with GFP expression on root tips in the three segregating lines. The expression of GFP for lines D and E was abnormal and may be related to the physical location of the transgene or the gene construct used.
The molecular mechanisms of plant responses to iron (Fe) deficiency remain largely unknown. To identify the cis-acting elements responsible for Fe-deficiency-inducible expression in higher plants, the barley IDS2 (iron deficiency specific clone no. 2) gene promoter was analyzed using a transgenic tobacco system. Deletion analysis revealed that the sequence between -272 and -91 from the translational start site (-272/-91) was both sufficient and necessary for specific expression in tobacco roots. Further deletion and linker-scanning analysis of this region clearly identified two cis-acting elements: iron-deficiency-responsive element 1 (IDE1) at -153/-136 (ATCAAGCATGCTTCTTGC) and IDE2 at -262/-236 (TTGAACGGCAAGTTTCACGCTGTCACT). The co-existence of IDE1 and IDE2 was essential for specific expression when the -46/+8 region (relative to the transcriptional start site) of the CaMV 35S promoter was used as a minimal promoter. Expression occurred mainly in the root pericycle, endodermis, and cortex. When the -90/+8 region of the CaMV 35S promoter was fused, the -272/-227 region, which consists of IDE2 and an additional 19 bp, could drive Fe-deficiency-inducible expression without IDE1 throughout almost the entire root. The principal modules of IDE1 and IDE2 were homologous. Sequences homologous to IDE1 were also found in many other Fe-deficiency-inducible promoters, including: nicotianamine aminotransferase (HvNAAT)-A, HvNAAT-B, nicotianamine synthase (HvNAS1), HvIDS3, OsNAS1, OsNAS2, OsIRT1, AtIRT1, and AtFRO2, suggesting the conservation of cis-acting elements in various genes and species. The identification of novel cis-acting elements, IDE1 and IDE2, will provide powerful tools to clarify the molecular mechanisms regulating Fe homeostasis in higher plants.
We report the discovery of a new hydroxylated abscisic acid (ABA) metabolite, found in the course of a mass spectrometric study of ABA metabolism in Brassica napus siliques. This metabolite reveals a previously unknown catabolic pathway for ABA in which the 9'-methyl group of ABA is oxidized. Analogs of (+)-ABA deuterated at the 8'-carbon atom and at both the 8'- and 9'-carbon atoms were fed to green siliques, and extracts containing the deuterated oxidized metabolites were analyzed to determine the position of ABA hydroxylation. The results indicated that hydroxylation of ABA had occurred at the 9'-methyl group, as well as at the 7'- and 8'-methyl groups. The chromatographic characteristics and mass spectral fragmentation patterns of the new ABA metabolite were compared with those of synthetic 9'-hydroxy ABA (9'-OH ABA), in both open and cyclized forms. The new compound isolated from plant extracts was identified as the cyclized form of 9'-OH ABA, which we have named neophaseic acid (neoPA). The proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectrum of pure neoPA isolated from immature seeds of B. napus was identical to that of the authentic synthetic compound. ABA and neoPA levels were high in young seeds and lower in older seeds. The open form (2Z,4E)-5-[(1R,6S)-1-Hydroxy-6-hydroxymethyl-2,6-dimethyl-4-oxo-cyclohex-2-enyl]-3-methyl-penta-2,4-dienoic acid, but not neoPA, exhibited ABA-like bioactivity in inhibiting Arabidopsis seed germination and in inducing gene expression in B. napus microspore-derived embryos. NeoPA was also detected in fruits of orange (Citrus sinensis) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), in Arabidopsis, and in chickpea (Cicer arietinum), as well as in drought-stressed barley (Hordeum vulgare) and B. napus seedlings.
Lactobacillus sakei 5, isolated from malted barley, produces three bacteriocins. Genetic and functional analysis of the purified bacteriocins showed that this strain produces a plasmid-encoded bacteriocin that is identical to sakacin P, as well as two novel, chromosomally encoded bacteriocins, which were designated sakacin T and sakacin X. The structural genes specifying sakacin T and sakacin X are part of the sakacin TX locus, which consists of two adjacent but divergently oriented gene clusters. The first gene cluster includes stxP, stxR, stxK, and stxT, which, based on functional and comparative sequence analysis, are believed to encode an inducing peptide and proteins involved in regulation and secretion of these bacteriocins. The second gene cluster includes the structural and immunity genes for sakacin T, a class IIb two-peptide bacteriocin composed of SakTalpha and SakTbeta, and sakacin X, a class IIa bacteriocin. Interestingly, a so-called transport accessory protein was absent from the locus, and based on our results it appears that a dedicated accessory protein is not required for processing and transport of sakacin T and sakacin X.
alpha-Galactosidase activity (alpha- d-galactoside galactohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.22) increased during dark-induced senescence in primary foliage leaves of barley ( Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Steffi). The changes in activity were accompanied by parallel changes in expression of the HvSF11 gene encoding a putative alpha-galactosidase. The transcript level of HvSF23 encoding a second putative alpha-galactosidase stayed constant during leaf senescence. Both alpha-galactosidase activity and the level of the HvSF11 transcript decreased after exogenous application of sucrose and glucose to detached dark-incubated leaves. In contrast, the HvSF23 transcript level was not influenced by sugars. Application of glucose analogs to detached and dark-incubated leaves revealed that phosphorylation of hexose by hexokinase modulates both the alpha-galactosidase activity and the expression of HvSF11. These results indicate that the expression of the genes coding for two alpha-galactosidase isoenzymes is regulated by different signalling pathways, suggesting different functions for the two gene products.
Suppression subtractive hybridisation was used to isolate 21 cDNAs ( bmi1- bmi21) up-regulated 1-5 h post-inoculation (hpi) in a barley ( Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Pallas) near-isogenic line (NIL) P11 ( Mla13) challenged with either avirulent or virulent isolates of Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. Transcriptional changes at these time-points are crucial for the Mla-mediated hypersensitive response [W.R. Bushnell and Z. Liu (1994) Physiol Mol Plant Pathol 44:389-402]. Seven sequences were up-regulated by 1 hpi, when the pathogen has formed only the primary germ tube. Some transcripts were similar to genes with a role in regulating programmed cell death in animals, including NF kappaB and oxysterol-binding protein. Moreover, bmi7, similar to rice resistance gene Xa21, was rapidly up-regulated in both compatible and incompatible interactions, but was then down-regulated by 5 hpi in the virulent interaction. Only nine of the transcripts were up-regulated in mlo5 resistance in cv. Pallas NIL P22, confirming differential pathway induction between Mla13 and mlo5. However, eight sequences up-regulated in the Mla13 response in P11 were already highly elevated in uninoculated mlo5 mutant P22, suggesting that they may be negatively regulated by wild-type Mlo. Regulation of bmi sequences was investigated using salicylic acid, methyl jasmonate, ethylene, H(2)O(2), abscisic acid, wounding and a glucan elicitor. No single stimulus up-regulated all genes, suggesting either combinations of these stimuli, or additional stimuli, are involved in early Mla13 and mlo5 resistances. Whereas H(2)O(2) up- or down-regulated 17 of the transcripts detected in Northern analyses, salicylic acid stimulated only down-regulation of 5 transcripts.
Small monomeric G-proteins of the plant ras (rat sarcome oncogene product) related C3 botulinum toxin substrate (RAC)/Rho of plants (ROP) family are molecular switches in signal transduction of many cellular processes. RAC/ROPs regulate hormone effects, subcellular gradients of Ca2+, the organisation of the actin cytoskeleton and the production of reactive oxygen intermediates. Therefore, we followed a genetic bottom-up strategy to study the role of these proteins during the interaction of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) with the fungal biotrophic pathogen Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh). We identified six barley RAC/ROP proteins and studied their gene expression. Five out of six Rac/Rop genes were expressed constitutively in the leaf epidermis, which is the site of interaction with Bgh. None of the genes showed enhancement of mRNA abundance after inoculation with Bgh. After microprojectile mediated transformation of single barley epidermal cells with constitutively activated mutant RAC/ROP proteins, we found an RAC/ROP-specific enhancement of pathogen accessibility, tagging HvRACB, HvRAC3 and HvROP6 as host proteins potentially involved in the establishment of susceptibility to Bgh. Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) of green fluorescent protein (GFP):HvRAC/ROP-transformed cells revealed varying strengths of plasma membrane association of barley RAC/ROPs. The C-terminal CAAX motif for presumable prenylation or the C-terminal hypervariable region (HVR), respectively, were required for membrane association of the RAC/ROPs. Proper intracellular localisation was essential for HvRACB and HvRAC3 function. Together, our data support the view that different paths of host signal transduction via RAC/ROP G-proteins are involved in processes supporting parasitic entry into epidermal host cells.
Relative quantitative RT-PCR and western blotting were used to investigate the expression of three genes with potentially regulatory functions from the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices in symbiosis with tomato and barley. Standardisation of total RNA per sample and determination of different ratios of plant and fungal RNA in roots as colonisation proceeded were achieved by relative quantitative RT-PCR using universal (NS1/NS21) and organism-specific rRNA primers. In addition, generic primers were designed for amplification of plant or fungal beta-tubulin genes and for plant glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) genes as these have been suggested as useful controls in symbiotic systems. The fungal genes Ginmyc1 and Ginhb1 were expressed only in the external mycelium and not in colonised roots at both mRNA and protein levels, with the proteins detected almost exclusively in the insoluble fractions. In contrast, mRNA of Ginmyc2 was identified in both external and intraradical mycelium. In mycorrhizal roots, Ginmyc2 and fungal beta-tubulin mRNAs increased in proportion to fungal rRNA as colonisation proceeded, suggesting that accumulation reflected intraradical fungal growth. Fungal alpha-tubulin protein and beta-tubulin mRNA both appeared to be more abundantly accumulated in AM hyphae within heavily colonised roots than in external hyphae, relative to fungal rRNA. Tomato GAPDH mRNA accumulation was proportional to tomato rRNA, but accumulation of tomato beta-tubulin mRNA was reduced in colonised roots compared to non-mycorrhizal roots. These results provide novel evidence of differential spatial and temporal regulation of AM fungal genes, indicate that the expression of tubulin genes of both plant and fungus may be regulated during colonisation and validate the use of multiple 'control' genes in analysis of mycorrhizal gene expression.
Expression of defense-associated genes was analyzed in leaf tissues of near-isogenic resistant and susceptible barley cultivars upon infection by Rhynchosporium secalis. The genes encoding pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins PR-1, PR-5, and PR-9 are specifically expressed in the mesophyll of resistant plants, whereas a germin-like protein (OxOLP) is synthesized in the epidermis irrespective of the resistance genotype. Restriction-mediated differential display was employed to identify additional epidermis-specific genes. This resulted in the detection of another PR gene, PR-10, along with a lipoxygenase gene, LoxA, and a gene of unknown function, pI2-4, which are specifically induced in the epidermis of resistant plants. The gene encoding a putative protease inhibitor, SD10, is preferentially but not exclusively expressed in the epidermis. The fungal avirulence gene product NIP1 triggers the induction of the four PR genes only. At least two additional elicitors, therefore, must be postulated, one for the unspecific induction of OxOLP and one for the resistance-specific induction of LoxA, pI2-4, and SD10. PR-10 expression can be assumed to be the consequence of NIP1 perception by epidermis cells. In contrast, gene expression in the mesophyll is likely to be triggered by an as yet unknown signal that appears to originate in the epidermis and that is strongly amplified in the mesophyll.
In the process of programmed cell death (PCD), a key role has been attributed to endonucleases capable to cleave nuclear DNA at internucleosomal sites. In barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), two such nucleases (Bnuc1 and BEN1) were individually identified in unrelated tissues. In the present work, we demonstrate that their genes are also expressed in immature anthers at different stages of pollen development. Further experiments carried out on RNA extracted from immature barley anthers led to discover a novel endonuclease gene, namely Bnuc2 (AJ311603 in the EMBL/GenBank/DDBJ databases), eventually found up-regulated at the tetrad stage. The protein encoded was found to conserve large sequence portions of Bnuc1 and BEN1 endonucleases, including the domain regions involved in secretion and DNA/RNA binding. A survey conducted on barley EST libraries showed that Bnuc2 and BEN1 mRNAs are jointly present also in the transcriptome of 20 DAP spike and that other endonuclease ESTs are co-expressed with Bnuc1 or BEN1 in tissues where PCD has been recorded. Therefore, it can be concluded that during the PCD process, a set of S1-type endonucleases is synthesised regardless of the tissue considered.
Glycosyl hydrolases are important mediators of plant cell wall modification during plant development. These enzymes catalyse the hydrolytic release of specific sugars, such as L-arabinose, from the polysaccharide-rich cell wall matrix. The cloning and expression analysis of two genes, AtASD1 and AtASD2, encoding putative alpha-L-arabinofuranosidases in Arabidopsis thaliana are reported here. AtASD1 and AtASD2 identities were assigned on the basis of homology to plant and microbial family 51 glycoside hydrolases. Using RT-PCR, RNA gel blot analysis and reporter gene expression analysis, AtASD1 and AtASD2 were shown to have different developmental expression profiles. High levels of AtASD1 promoter activity are present in multiple tissues during vegetative and reproductive growth. AtASD1 expression is particularly intense in zones of cell proliferation, the vascular system, developing and regressing floral tissues, and floral abscission zones. By comparison, AtASD2 expression is limited to the vasculature of older root tissue and to some floral organs and floral abscission zones.
Proteins of the serpin superfamily (approximately 43 kDa) from mature cereal grains are in vitro suicide-substrate inhibitors of specific mammalian serine proteinases of the chymotrypsin family. However, unlike the 'standard-mechanism' serine proteinase inhibitors (<25 kDa), the biological functions of plant serpins are unknown. Expression studies of genes encoding members of three subfamilies of serpins (BSZx, BSZ4 and BSZ7) in developing grain and vegetative tissues of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) showed that transcripts encoding BSZx, which inhibits distinct proteinases at overlapping reactive centres in vitro, were ubiquitous at low levels, but the protein could not be detected. EST analysis showed that expression of genes for serpins with BSZx-type reactive centres in vegetative tissues is widespread in the plant kingdom, suggesting a common regulatory function. For BSZ4 and BSZ7, expression at the protein level was highest in the maturing grain (> or d post-anthesis), where these serpins were localized by immunomicroscopy to the central and peripheral starchy endosperm, subaleurone, and (at lower levels) to the aleurone. Serpins were also localized to the meristem and vascular tissues of roots, and to the phloem of coleoptiles and leaves. The identification of BSZ4 in vegetative tissues by western blotting was confirmed for the roots by purification and amino acid sequencing, and for the leaves by in vitro reactive-centre loop cleavage studies. Plant serpins are likely to use their irreversible inhibitory mechanism in the inhibition of exogenous proteinases capable of breaking down seed storage proteins, and in the defence of specific cell types in vegetative tissues.
Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is widely used in molecular biological study. However, high-resolution analysis of fluorescent signals is theoretically limited by the 300-nm resolution optical limit of light microscopy. As an alternative to detection by light microscopy, we used Scanning Near-field Optical/Atomic Force Microscopy (SNOM/AFM), which can simultaneously obtain topographic and fluorescent images with nanometer-scale resolution. In this study, we demonstrated high-resolution SNOM/AFM imaging of barley chromosome (Hordeum vulgare, cv. Minorimugi) FISH signals using telomeric DNA probes. Besides detecting the granular structures on chromosomes in a topographic image, we clearly detected fluorescent signals in telomeric regions with low-magnification imaging. The high-resolution analysis suggested that one of the telomeric signals could be observed by expanded imaging as two fluorescent regions separated by approximately 250 nm. This result indicated that the fluorescent signals beyond the optical limit were detected with higher resolution scanning by SNOM/AFM.
The uptake, distribution and metabolism of selenite were examined in germinating homozygous barley ( Hordeum vulgare L.) grain with thioredoxin h overexpressed in starchy endosperm. Results were related to the null segregant in which the transgene had segregated out during crossing. Compared with the null segregant, the homozygote showed enhanced germination and root and shoot growth in the presence of 1 and 2 mM sodium selenite. The rate of incorporation of selenite by the homozygote was approximately twice that of the null segregant. Based on X-ray absorption spectroscopy, the major products in both cases were selenomethionine-like species and the red, monoclinic form of elemental selenium, a derivative not previously reported in green plants. Selenite and selenate made up the balance. The distribution of the products formed differed as to the tissue - root, shoot, aleurone, endosperm - but the ratios were similar in the homozygote and null segregant. The results provide evidence that, in addition to the accelerated germination observed previously in water, barley grain overexpressing thioredoxin h are resistant to the inhibitory effects of selenite. These properties raise the possibility that plants overexpressing thioredoxin h could find application in the remediation of polluted environments.
The bifunctional alpha-amylase/subtilisin inhibitor (BASI) is an abundant protein in barley seeds, proposed to play multiple and apparently diverse roles in regulation of starch hydrolysis and in seed defence against pathogens. In the Triticeae, the protein has evolved the ability to specifically inhibit the main group of alpha-amylases expressed during germination of barley and encoded by the amyl gene family found only in the Triticeae. The expression of the asi gene that encodes BASI has been reported to be controlled by the hormones abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellic acid (GA). Despite many studies at the gene and protein level, the function of this gene in the plant remains unclear. In this study, the 5'-flanking region (1033 bp, 1033-asi promoter) and the 3'-flanking region (655 bp) of the asi gene were isolated and characterised. The 1033-asi promoter sequence showed homology to a number of ciselements that play a role in ABA and GA regulated expression of other genes. With a green fluorescent protein gene (gfp) as reporter, the 1033-asi promoter was studied for spatial, temporal and hormonal control of gene expression. The 1033-asi promoter and its deletions direct transient gfp expression in the pericarp and at low levels in mature aleurone cells, and this expression is not regulated by ABA or GA. In transgenic barley plants, the 1033-asi promoter directed tissue-specific expression of the gfp gene in developing grain and germinating grain but not in roots or leaves. In developing grain, expression of gfp was observed specifically in the pericarp, the vascular tissue, the nucellar projection cells and the endosperm transfer cells and the hormones ABA or GA did not regulate this expression. In mature germinating grain gfp expression was observed in the embryo but not in aleurone or starchy endosperm. However, GA induced gfp expression in the aleurone of mature imbibed seeds from which the embryo had been removed. Expression in maternal rather than endosperm tissues of the grain suggests that earlier widespread assumptions that the protein is expressed largely in the endosperm may have been largely based on analysis of mixed grain tissues. This novel pattern of expression suggests that both activities of the protein may be primarily involved in seed defence in the peripheral tissues of the seed.
Double-stranded RNA interference technology has recently been shown to be a powerful tool to silence gene expression in various organisms, including plants. Sustained double-stranded RNA interference mediated gene silencing is normally triggered by hairpin RNAs generated by in vivo transcription of inverted repeat DNA constructs. To test the efficiency of inverted repeat constructs for their in vivo gene silencing capability, we developed an assay that is based on transient expression in single cells using two fluorescent reporter proteins with different emission spectra. We co-expressed one fluorescent protein as marker for transfected cells and the second as translational fusion with the target gene. Co-transfection of a vector mediating expression of inverted repeats of the target gene resulted in a specific decrease or undetectable fusion protein fluorescence in the majority of transfected cells.
Transgenic alfalfa root cultures expressing sense and antisense barley hemoglobin transcripts were examined under varying levels of atmospheric oxygen. Root cultures overexpressing the hemoglobin gene (Hb+) maintained root growth when placed under 3% oxygen, whereas control cultures or cultures underexpressing hemoglobin (Hb-) experienced 30-70% declines in growth under the same conditions. ATP levels and ATP/ADP ratios for Hb+ lines did not significantly differ in 40 and 3% oxygen, whereas the ATP levels and ATP/ADP ratios in control and Hb- lines were significantly lower under 3% oxygen. Large increases in the production of nitric oxide (NO) were measured in root cultures grown under hypoxic conditions compared to aerobic conditions. The amount of NO accumulated in an Hb- line was 2.5-fold higher than that in the Hb+ line. Treatment of transgenic root lines under 40% oxygen with NO resulted in significant declines in the ATP levels and ATP/ADP ratio of an Hb- line and the control line, with no significant change in an Hb+ line. The root cell structure of an Hb- line showed evidence of cell breakdown under hypoxic growth, whereas an Hb+ line had no evidence of cell breakdown under similar growth conditions. These results lead us to hypothesize that NO is involved in the response of plants to hypoxia and that hemoglobin modulates the levels of NO in the hypoxic cell.
Barley nucleolus organizing regions (NORs) were previously found to behave as prominent aberration hot-spots after treatment with some restriction endonucleases. The ability of MspI for directed induction of double-strand breaks in barley ribosomal DNA was further analyzed. Ionizing radiation-produced strand breakage within the ribosomal gene clusters was also a subject of investigation. Reconstructed barley karyotypes T1586 and T35 with normal and increased expression of rRNA genes were utilized to evaluate the relationship between transcriptional activity and damage induction. Scanning densitometry of the hybridization profiles revealed that MspI is generating double-strand breaks in barley rDNA with efficiency being independent from the NOR activity. Damage induction observed after treatment with gamma-rays was also not influenced by the transcriptional status of the ribosomal genes. A tendency towards restoration of rDNA integrity after irradiation of both germinating and dry seeds was observed which is indicative for the efficient recovery of double-strand breaks in barley ribosomal DNA.
A genomic clone for starch branching enzyme (SBE) IIb was isolated from a sorghum bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library. The promoter and 5' flanking sequence, the first four exons and introns as well as the last exon and the 3' untranslated region were sequenced. The tentative transcription start site of sorghum sbeIIb was mapped based on alignment with the maize sbeIIb gene. The exon-intron structure of the 5' portion of sorghum sbeIIb was similar to that of maize sbeIIb but differed from that of barley sbeIIb. Specifically, the intronic BbI element involved in the endosperm specific expression of barley sbeIIb was lacking in the sorghum gene. A cDNA clone for sorghum sbeIIb was reverse PCR amplified and found to encode an 803 amino acids long protein. The amino acid sequence of sorghum SBEIIb was compared to that of sorghum SBEI and corresponding enzymes in barley. The overall identity in amino acid sequence was 54% in the central portion of the enzymes. A major difference between the SBEII and SBEI isoforms was a 67 amino acids-long C-terminal extension in the SBEIs. The spatial and temporal expression patterns of sorghum sbeIIb was determined and compared with those of the sorghum gene for SBEI and the barley genes for SBEIIB and SBEI. All four genes exhibited a seed specific expression. However, while barley sbeIIb and sbeI transcripts were detected exclusively in the endosperm, the sorghum genes were expressed also in the embryo. The activity of sorghum sbeIIb and sbeI exhibited a late onset, with a peak of transcription at around 22 days after pollination. This is similar to the pattern of barley sbeI but different from that of barley sbeIIb, which showed a peak of transcription at 12 days after pollination.
SURE (sugar responsive) is a cis element in plant sugar signaling. The SURE element was reported first for potato, in which it confers sugar responsiveness to the patatin promoter. A SURE binding transcription factor has not been isolated. We have isolated a transcription factor cDNA from barley and purified the corresponding protein. The transcription factor, SUSIBA2 (sugar signaling in barley), belongs to the WRKY proteins and was shown to bind to SURE and W-box elements but not to the SP8a element in the iso1 promoter. Nuclear localization of SUSIBA2 was demonstrated in a transient assay system with a SUSIBA2:green fluorescent protein fusion protein. Exploiting the novel transcription factor oligodeoxynucleotide decoy strategy with transformed barley endosperm provided experimental evidence for the importance of the SURE elements in iso1 transcription. Antibodies against SUSIBA2 were produced, and the expression pattern for susiba2 was determined at the RNA and protein levels. It was found that susiba2 is expressed in endosperm but not in leaves. Transcription of susiba2 is sugar inducible, and ectopic susiba2 expression was obtained in sugar-treated leaves. Likewise, binding to SURE elements was observed for nuclear extracts from sugar-treated but not from control barley leaves. The temporal expression of susiba2 in barley endosperm followed that of iso1 and endogenous sucrose levels, with a peak at approximately 12 days after pollination. Our data indicate that SUSIBA2 binds to the SURE elements in the barley iso1 promoter as an activator. Furthermore, they show that SUSIBA2 is a regulatory transcription factor in starch synthesis and demonstrate the involvement of a WRKY protein in carbohydrate anabolism. Orthologs to SUSIBA2 were isolated from rice and wheat endosperm.
Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) contains three positive-sense, single-stranded genomic RNAs, designated alpha, beta, and gamma, that encode seven major proteins and one minor translational readthrough protein. Three proteins (alphaa, betaa, and gammaa) are translated directly from the genomic RNAs and the remaining proteins encoded on RNAbeta and RNAgamma are expressed via three subgenomic messenger RNAs (sgRNAs). sgRNAbeta1 directs synthesis of the triple gene block 1 (TGB1) protein. The TGB2 protein, the TGB2' minor translational readthrough protein, and the TGB3 protein are expressed from sgRNAbeta2, which is present in considerably lower abundance than sgRNAbeta1. A third sgRNA, sgRNAgamma, is required for expression of the gammab protein. We have used deletion analyses and site-specific mutations to define the boundaries of promoter regions that are critical for expression of the BSMV sgRNAs in infected protoplasts. The results reveal that the sgRNAbeta1 promoter encompasses positions -29 to -2 relative to its transcription start site and is adjacent to a cis-acting element required for RNAbeta replication that maps from -107 to -74 relative to the sgRNAbeta1 start site. The core sgRNAbeta2 promoter includes residues -32 to -17 relative to the sgRNAbeta2 transcriptional start site, although maximal activity requires an upstream hexanucleotide sequence residing from positions -64 to -59. The sgRNAgamma promoter maps from -21 to +2 relative to its transcription start site and therefore partially overlaps the gammaa gene. The sgRNAbeta1, beta2, and gamma promoters also differ substantially in sequence, but have similarities to the putative homologous promoters of other Hordeiviruses. These differences are postulated to affect competition for the viral polymerase, coordination of the temporal expression and abundance of the TGB proteins, and constitutive expression of the gammab protein.
Our understanding of proanthocyanidin (syn. condensed tannin) synthesis has been recently extended by substantial developments concerning both structural and regulatory genes. A gene encoding leucoanthocyanidin reductase has been obtained from the tropical forage, Desmodium uncinatum, with the latter enzyme catalyzing formation of (+)-catechin. The BANYULS gene in Arabidopsis thaliana, previously proposed to encode leucoanthocyanidin reductase or to regulate proanthocyanidin biosynthesis, has been shown instead to encode anthocyanidin reductase, which in turn converts anthocyanidins (pelargonidin, cyanidin, or delphinidin) into 2,3-cis-2R,3R-flavan-3-ols (respectively, (-)-epiafzelechin, (-)-epicatechin and (-)-epigallocatechin). However, the enzyme which catalyzes the polymerization reaction remains unknown. Nevertheless, a vacuolar transmembrane protein TT12, defined by the Arabidopsis tt12 mutant, is involved in transport of proanthocyanidin polymer into the vacuole for accumulation. Six different types of regulatory elements, e.g. TFIIIA-like, WD-40-like, WRKY-like, MADS-box-like, myb-like, and bHLH (myc-like), have been cloned and identified using mutants from Arabidopsis (tt1, ttg1, ttg2, tt2, tt16, tt2, tt8) and two other species (Hordeum vulgare [ant13] and Lotus spp [tan1]). Accordingly, increases in proanthocyanidin levels have been induced in the the world's major forage, alfalfa. These advances may now lead to a detailed understanding of how PA synthesis is controlled and to useful alterations in proanthocyanidin concentration for the improvement of forage species, pulses, and other crop plants.
Net blotch, caused by Pyrenophora teres, is a common disease of barley ( Hordeum vulgareL.). Two PCR-based differential screening techniques, cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism (cDNA-AFLP) and suppression subtractive hybridisation (SSH), were employed to clone cDNA copies of transcripts that are up-regulated during conidial germination. The nucleotide sequences of 35 transcripts were analysed, and the amino acid sequences of their predicted products were compared with entries in databases. Eleven of these clones showed homology to genes from other ascomycetes coding for a transcription factor, two regulatory proteins, a putative transposase, a protein required for the biogenesis of cytochrome C oxidase, a threonine synthase, a probable subunit of a phenylalanine-tRNA synthetase, a subunit of RNA polymerase I, a cation transport protein, a vacuolar ATP synthase subunit, and an RNA processing protein. One conserved hypothetical protein was found and 23 sequences could not be functionally classified. The relative expression of five transcripts at 0, 1, 2, 3, 6, 12 and 24 h after induction of germination was determined by real-time RT-PCR using 18S rRNA as the endogenous reference sequence. All transcripts showed a significant increase in expression during early stages of germination. The maximum change in expression relative to ungerminated conidia ranged between 2.6- and 6-fold. The characterisation of genes involved in biochemical processes during the germination of conidia could be useful for target-specific development of new antifungal agents.
The hypersensitive response (HR) is one of the most-efficient forms of plant defense against biotrophic pathogens, and results in localized cell death and the formation of necrotic lesions; however, the molecular components of pathways leading to HR remain largely unknown. Barley ( Hordeum vulgare ssp. vulgare L.) cDNAs for putative hypersensitive-induced reaction ( HIR) genes were isolated based on DNA and amino-acid homologies to maize HIR genes. Analyses of the cDNA and genomic sequences and genetic mapping found four distinct barley HIR genes, Hv-hir1, Hv-hir2, Hv-hir3 and Hv-hir4, on chromosomes 4(4H) bin10, 7(5H) bin04, 7(5H) bin07 and 1(7H) bin03, respectively. Hv-hir1, Hv-hir2 and Hv-hir3 genes were highly homologous at both DNA and the deduced amino-acid level, but the Hv-hir4 gene was similar to the other genes only at the amino-acid sequence level. Amino-acid sequence analyses of the barley HIR proteins indicated the presence of the SPFH protein-domain characteristic for the prohibitins and stomatins which are involved in control of the cell cycle and ion channels, as well as in other membrane-associated proteins from bacteria, plants and animals. HIR genes were expressed in all organs and developement stages analyzed, indicating a vital and non-redundant function. Barley fast-neutron mutants exhibiting spontaneous HR (disease lesion mimic mutants) showed up to a 35-fold increase in Hv-hir3 expression, implicating HIR genes in the induction of HR.
Cytoplasmic line 2 (CL2) has been previously reported as a cytoplasmically inherited chlorophyll-deficient mutant selected from a chloroplast-mutator genotype of barley. It was characterized by a localized effect on the upper part of the first-leaf blade. At emergence the CL2 seedlings-phenotype varied from a grainy light green to an albino color. They gradually greened during the following days, starting from the base of the blade and extending to cover most of its surface when it was fully grown. The present results, from both light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), confirmed the previously described positional and time-dependent expression of the CL2 syndrome along the first-leaf blade. During the first days after emergence, light microscopy showed a normally developed chloroplast at the middle part of the CL2 first-leaf blade, meanwhile at the tip only small plastids were observed. TEM showed that the shapes and the internal structure of the small plastids were abnormal, presenting features of proplastids, amyloplasts and/or senescent gerontoplasts. Besides, they lack plastid ribosomes, contrasting with what was observed inside chloroplasts from normal tips, which presented abundant ribosomes. Phenotypic observations and spectrophotometric analysis of seedlings produced by mother plants that had been grown under different temperatures indicated that higher temperatures during seed formation were negatively associated with pigment content in CL2 seedlings. In contrast, higher temperatures during the growth of CL2 seedlings have been associated with increased pigment content. Aqueous solution with kanamycin and streptomycin, which are antibiotics known to interfere with plastid gene translation, were used for imbibition of wild-type and CL2 seeds. Antibiotic treatments differentially reduced the chlorophyll content in the upper part of the first-leaf blade in CL2, but not in wild-type seedlings. These results suggest that in the wild-type, plastid-gene proteins which are necessary for chloroplast development and chlorophyll synthesis in the upper part of the first-leaf blade are usually synthesized during embryogenesis. However, under certain circumstances, in CL2 seedlings, they would be synthesized after germination. In addition, a shortening of the sheath has been observed in association with pigment decrease suggesting the existence of plastid factors affecting the expression of some nuclear genes. We consider the CL2 mutant a unique experimental material useful to study biological phenomena and external factors regulating plastid, and nuclear gene expression during embryogenesis and early seedling development.
The molecular genetics of vernalization, defined as the promotion of flowering by cold treatment, is still poorly understood in cereals. To better understand this mechanism, we cloned and characterized a gene that we named TaVRT-1 (wheat [Triticum aestivum] vegetative to reproductive transition-1). Molecular and sequence analyses indicated that this gene encodes a protein homologous to the MADS-box family of transcription factors that comprises certain flowering control proteins in Arabidopsis. Mapping studies have localized this gene to the Vrn-1 regions on the long arms of homeologous group 5 chromosomes, regions that are associated with vernalization and freezing tolerance (FT) in wheat. The level of expression of TaVRT-1 is positively associated with the vernalization response and transition from vegetative to reproductive phase and is negatively associated with the accumulation of COR genes and degree of FT. Comparisons among different wheat genotypes, near-isogenic lines, and cereal species, which differ in their vernalization response and FT, indicated that the gene is inducible only in those species that require vernalization, whereas it is constitutively expressed in spring habit genotypes. In addition, experiments using both the photoperiod-sensitive barley (Hordeum vulgare cv Dicktoo) and short or long day de-acclimated wheat revealed that the expression of TaVRT-1 is also regulated by photoperiod. These expression studies indicate that photoperiod and vernalization may regulate this gene through separate pathways. We suggest that TaVRT-1 is a key developmental gene in the regulatory pathway that controls the transition from the vegetative to reproductive phase in cereals.
The barley line albostrians exhibits a severe block in chloroplast development as a result of a mutationally induced lack of plastid ribosomes. White leaves of this mutant contain undifferentiated plastids, possess only traces of chlorophyll (Chl), and are photosynthetically inactive. Chl deficiency, combined with a continuous heme requirement, should lead to drastic changes in the tetrapyrrole metabolism in white versus green leaves. We analyzed the extent to which the synthesis rate of the pathway and the porphyrin distribution toward the Chl- and heme-synthesizing bifurcation is altered in the white tissue of albostrians. Expression and activity of several distinctively regulated enzymes, such as glutamyl-tRNAglu reductase, glutamate 1-semialdehyde aminotransferase, Mg- and Fe-chelatase, and Chl synthetase, were altered in white mutant leaves in comparison to control leaves. A drastic loss in the rate-limiting formation of 5-aminolevulinate and in the Mg-chelatase and Mg-protoporphyrin IX methyltransferase activity, as well as an increase in Fe-chelatase activity, accounts for a decrease in the metabolic flux and the re-direction of metabolites. It is proposed that the tightly balanced control of activities in the pathway functions by different metabolic feedback loops and in response to developmental state and physiological requirements. This data supports the idea that the initial steps of Mg-porphyrin synthesis contribute to plastid-derived signaling toward the nucleus. The barley mutant albostrians proved to be a valuable system for studying regulation of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis and their involvement in the bi-directional communication between plastids and nucleus.
Tocotrienols are the primary form of vitamin E in seeds of most monocot plants, including cereals such as rice and wheat. As potent antioxidants, tocotrienols contribute to the nutritive value of cereal grains in human and livestock diets. cDNAs encoding homogentisic acid geranylgeranyl transferase (HGGT), which catalyzes the committed step of tocotrienol biosynthesis, were isolated from barley, wheat and rice seeds. Transgenic expression of the barley HGGT in Arabidopsis thaliana leaves resulted in accumulation of tocotrienols, which were absent from leaves of nontransformed plants, and a 10- to 15-fold increase in total vitamin E antioxidants (tocotrienols plus tocopherols). Overexpression of the barley HGGT in corn seeds resulted in an increase in tocotrienol and tocopherol content of as much as six-fold. These results provide insight into the genetic basis for tocotrienol biosynthesis in plants and demonstrate the ability to enhance the antioxidant content of crops by introduction of an enzyme that redirects metabolic flux.
Two different cDNA clones encoding asperagine synthetase (AS: EC 6.3.5.4.) were cloned from barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Alexis). The corresponding genes were designated HvAS1 (GenBank no AF307145) and HvAS2 (GenBank no AY193714). Chromosomal mapping using wheat-barley addition lines revealed that the HvAS1 gene is located on the long arm of barley chromosome 5, while the HvAS2 gene maps to the short arm of chromosome 3. Both genes are expressed in barley leaves according to RT-PCR analysis but only the HvAS1 gene expression can be detected in roots. Northern blots show no expression of HvAS1 in plants grown under a normal 16 h light/8 h dark cycle but after 10 h of continuous darkness, transcript appears and mRNA accumulates over a 48-h period of dark treatment. In roots, low-level expression of HvAS1 could be detected and the expression level appears to be unaffected by light. A polyclonal antibody was raised against the HvAS1 protein and used in Western blot analysis. The AS protein accumulated during a 48-h period of dark treatment, following the increase in HvAS1 transcript.
A new full-length beta-1,3-glucanase cDNA was obtained by RT-PCR and RACE techniques from Tibet hulless barley and its complete gene sequence obtained by DNA Walking. Sequence alignment with the BLAST program showed that cDNA has high similarity with barley beta-1,3-glucanase II. The gene was functionally expressed in E. coli and the recombinant protein catalysed the hydrolysis of beta-1,3-glucan with an action pattern characteristic of a beta-1,3-glucan endohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.39). Southern blot analysis indicated that the gene is a member of a small gene family. RT-PCR and northern blot analysis indicated it is constitutively expressed in barley shoots.
The ENOD40 gene, found in several leguminous and non-leguminous plant species is expressed in the pericycle of legume roots early in the nodulation process, adjacent to the protoxylem poles, but before the cortical cells divide to form the nodule itself. The ENOD40 transcript contains only short open reading frames which give rise to short peptides with a signaling function. The current work reports the cloning and analysis of ENOD40 genes from perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). Specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques lead to the isolation of a 659 bp cDNA encoding an ENOD40 homologue, designated LpE-NOD40, from a Lolium perenne stem cDNA library. In addition, a partial ENOD40 cDNA of 384 bp was isolated from barley (Hordeum vulgare) by RT-PCR cloning. The LpENOD40 transcript encodes a putative dodecapeptide, similar to that identified in ENOD40s from leguminous plants and other dicots, and also to ENOD40s from monocots. The coding sequences of ryegrass and barley ENOD40 are represented by a short open reading frame of 12 amino acids. These show a high degree of similarity to each other and to other ENOD40 sequences from monocots. The corresponding genomic DNA from a genomic ryegrass lambda library revealed that the LpENOD40 gene contains no introns. Southern blot analysis shows that the ryegrass genome contains a single copy, possibly two copies, of the gene. Alignment of the ENOD40 cDNA sequences from ryegrass and barley revealed high (77%) nucleotide homology. The ENOD40 peptides are highly conserved, not only among monocots but also on comparison with the dicot peptides. The amino acid identity of region I from ryegrass with its counterparts in maize, barley and rice is 92, 83 and 75% respectively. Expression analysis by RT-PCR demonstrates that a high level of LpENOD40 gene transcript was found expressed in stem tissue, while a lower level was detected in leaves and only a very low expression in flowers of perennial ryegrass. No LpENOD40 transcript was detected in roots.
The expression pattern and level of light-regulated genes are controlled by complex regulatory networks. Expression of genes encoding chlorophyll a/b-binding proteins of photosystem II is controlled by different photoreceptors and regulated primarily at the level of transcription. Light-dependent transcription of these genes is further modulated by the circadian system, affected by a developmental program and by a variety of environmental factors such as stress. Here we report the isolation of two Myb-like transcription factors from barley, HvMCB1 and HvMCB2, that bind specifically to defined regions of CAB promoters derived from wheat and barley. Deletion and mutation analysis of the wheat CAB1 promoter suggest that HvMCB1 and HvMCB2 are required for high-level but not for light- and circadian clock-regulated expression. Moreover, we demonstrate that the induction of HvMCB1 and HvMCB2 transcription is regulated differentially by environmental factors and plastid development. These observations indicate that HvMCB1 and HvMCB2, together with other, yet unknown regulatory factors, may mediate responsiveness of CAB gene transcription to a variety of environmental and developmental signals.
In a study aimed at characterising, at the molecular level, the obligate biotrophic fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh), we have identified a novel group of genes, the Egh16H genes, and shown that two of these are up-regulated during primary infection of barley leaves. The genes have partial homology to a previously characterised Bgh gene family, Egh16. Egh16 and Egh16H are subfamilies of a larger multigene family with presently about 15 members identified in Bgh. Egh16H has about ten members, and we show that five of these are expressed as highly conserved mRNAs that are predicted to encode proteins with a C-terminal variable region. Egh16H has high homology to sequences in Magnaporthe grisea and other plant pathogenic fungi, as well as sequences of both the insect pathogen Metarhizium anisopliae and the human pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. No close homologues of Egh16H were found in the non-pathogenic fungi Neurospora crassa and Aspergillus nidulans. We predict that Egh16H plays a general role in the interaction between pathogenic fungi and their hosts. At present, the large number of gene family members with C-terminal variation appears to be unique for Bgh, and the Egh16/Egh16H gene family is to our knowledge the largest gene family so far characterised in this fungus.
Cultivated barley, Hordeum vulgare L., is considered to be a nonhost or intermediate host species for the wheat leaf rust fungus Puccinia triticina. Here, we have investigated, at the microscopic and molecular levels, the reaction of barley cultivars to wheat leaf rust infection. In the nonhost resistant cultivar Cebada Capa, abortion of fungal growth occurred at both pre- and posthaustorial stages, suggesting that defense genes are expressed throughout the development of the inappropriate fungus during the nonhost resistance reaction. In the two barley lines L94 and Bowman, a low level of prehaustorial resistance to P. triticina was observed and susceptibility was comparable to that of wheat control plants. Suppression subtractive hybridization was used to identify genes that are differentially expressed during the nonhost resistance reaction in Cebada Capa as well as during the successful establishment of the inappropriate wheat leaf rust fungus in L94. Northern analysis indicated that two candidate genes, including a barley ortholog of the rice resistance gene Xa21, are putatively involved in nonhost and non-race-specific resistance reactions. In addition, a new gene that is specifically induced during the successful development of the inappropriate fungus P. triticina in barley has been identified.
In order to evaluate the long-term stability of transgene expression driven by the B(1)- and D-hordein promoters in transgenic barley ( Hordeum vulgare L., 2 n=2 x=14), we analyzed plants from 15 independent transgenic barley lines [6 for uidA and 9 for sgfp(S65T)] produced via microprojectile bombardment of immature embryos; 4 were diploid and 11 were tetraploid. The expression and inheritance of transgenes were determined by analysis of functional transgene expression, polymerase chain reaction and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Ability to express transgenes driven by either B(1)- or D-hordein promoter was inherited in T(4) and later generations: T(4) (2 lines), T(5) (8 lines), T(6) (3 lines), T(8) (1 line) and T(9) (1 line). Homozygous transgenic plants were obtained from 12 lines [5 for uidA and 7 for sgfp(S65T)]; the remaining lines are currently being analyzed. The application of the FISH technique for physical mapping of chromosomes was useful for early screening of homozygous plants by examining for presence of the transgene. For example, one line expressing uidA, and shown to have doublet fluorescence signals on a pair of homologous chromosomes was confirmed as a homozygous line by its segregation ratio; additionally this line showed stable inheritance of the transgene to T(9) progeny. The expression of transgenes in most lines (14 out of 15 lines) driven by hordein promoters was stably transmitted to T(4) or later generations, although there was a skewed segregation pattern (1:1) from the T(1) generation onward in the remaining line. In contrast, transgene silencing or transgene loss under the control of the maize ubiquitin promoter was observed in progeny of only 6 out of 15 lines.
The use of barley grains as bioreactors for high-level production of cellulase (1,4-beta-glucanase) was investigated. A hybrid cellulase gene, cel-hyb1, driven by the rice GluB-1 promoter was expressed specifically in developing endosperm. Codon usage optimisation of cel-hyb1 increased its expression in barley grains 527-fold and led to cellulase production of up to 1.5% of total grain protein. CEL-HYB1 enzyme in barley grains was highly stable during post-harvest storage. Selectable marker gene ( hph) was subsequently eliminated from transgenic lines through segregation of hph from synthetic cel-hyb1 ( syn.cel-hyb1) in T1 progeny, using a binary plasmid containing hph and syn.cel-hyb1 in separate T-DNAs. These data suggest that barley grains can potentially be used for the commercial production of cellulase.
A cDNA encoding an O-methyltransferase (OMT) was isolated from salt-tolerant barley roots by subtraction hybridization with cDNAs of salt-tolerant barley roots as a tester cDNA and cDNAs of the salt-sensitive barley roots as a driver cDNA. The deduced amino acid sequence showed significant identity with plant caffeic acid/5-hydroxyferulic acid OMTs. Southern blot analysis showed that the OMT gene was a single copy in both salt-tolerant and -sensitive barley. The cloned gene was expressed in a wheat germ cell-free system to produce the OMT, which had methylating activity for caffeic acid. Northern blot analysis showed that the OMT gene was expressed constitutively in the salt-tolerant barley roots and the expression level was increased 1.5 times by salt stress, but the salt-sensitive barley showed no expression of the gene in roots and leaves.
Seed development is known to involve complex physiological and molecular events. In order to gain information on the molecular events that occur in the grains of barley during kernel development, we conducted suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) using grains of barley cv. Karl at 14 days after fertilization (DAF) as the tester and grains at 5 DAF as the driver. We isolated an SSH clone that showed homology with a specific calcium binding protein in rice called EFA27. Screening the cDNA library, we identified two clones as a calcium binding protein. These clones, each carrying one calcium-binding EF-hand motif, were designated HvCaBP1 (Hordeum vulgare Calcium Binding Protein 1). HvCaBP1 possesses an N-terminal region with a conserved single Ca(2+)-binding EF-hand motif and one transmembrane helix. Northern hybridization showed that the highest expression occurred in grains and that expression increased in kernels at 8 DAF. As shown in situ hybridization, the HvCaBP1 gene was highly expressed in the embryo and tissues of the endosperm near the embryo and was detected in the vascular tissues of the glume in the kernel at 8 DAF. Accumulation of HvCaBP1 mRNAs subsequently increased in vegetative tissues for up to 48 h after abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. Transcripts of HvCaBP1 mRNAs may be regulated by endogenous ABA in the grains during kernel development.
The inter-relation between nitrogen availability and cadmium toxicity was studied in roots of barley seedlings with emphasis on the analysis of expression of 10 selected genes relevant for growth in the presence of toxic Cd concentrations. The response to Cd exposure differed quantitatively or qualitatively for the 10 genes in dependence of the N supply. Transcripts of glutathione synthase, glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidase and dehydroascorbate reductase were measured as parameters involved in antioxidant defence, metallothionein, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase and phytochelatin synthase (PCS) were analysed as genes related to heavy metal binding, and vacuolar ATPase subunits VHA-E and VHA-c and a NRAMP-transporter as genes being implicated in Cd transport. Reprogramming of the Cd response was most obvious for PCS and NRAMP whose transcript levels were unaltered and down-regulated, respectively, in the presence of Cd at adequate N, but strongly up-regulated upon Cd exposure under conditions of nitrogen deficiency. Different responses to Cd at varying N supply were also seen for the antioxidant genes. The results on gene expression are discussed in context with the changes in biochemical parameters, and underline the importance of evaluating the general growth conditions of a plant when discussing its specific response to a stressor such as Cd. The sequence of the nramp cDNA was filed at the EMBL/GenBank/DDBJ Databases under the accession number AJ514946.
In the dominant mutant Hooded (K), the barley gene BKn3 is overexpressed as a result of a duplication of 305 bp in intron IV. When fused to a cauliflower mosaic virus 35S minimal promoter, the 305 bp element activates gene expression in tobacco, as does a 655 bp BKn3 promoter sequence. Both DNA fragments contain a (GA)8 repeat (GA/TC)8. A one-hybrid screen using the 305 bp element as the DNA target led to the cloning of the barley b recombinant (BBR) protein, which binds specifically to the (GA/TC)8 repeat. BBR is nuclear targeted and is a characterized nuclear localization signal (NLS) sequence, a DNA-binding domain extended up to 90 aa at the C-terminus and a putative N-terminal activation domain. The corresponding gene has no introns and is ubiquitously expressed in barley tissues. In co-transfection experiments, BBR activates (GA/TC)8-containing promoters, and its overexpression in tobacco leads to a pronounced leaf shape modification. BBR has properties of a GAGA-binding factor, but the corresponding gene has no sequence homology to Trl and Psq of Drosophila, which encode functionally analogous proteins. In Arabidopsis, (GA/TC)8 repeats occur particularly within 1500 bp upstream of gene start codons included in some homeodomain genes of different classes. The data presented suggest that expression of the barley BKn3 is regulated, at least in part, by the binding of the transcription factor BBR to GA/TC repeats.
Hemoglobins (Hbs) are heme proteins encountered in all five kingdoms of living organisms. In plants, two different classes of Hbs have been identified: nonsymbiotic (class I) from both monocot and dicot species and symbiotic (class II) Hbs from nitrogen-fixing plants. This work reports the cloning and analysis of three nonsymbiotic Hb genes from wheat (Triticum aestivum) and potato (Solanum tuberosum). The Hb cDNAs were amplified by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using consensus oligonucleotide primers for nonsymbiotic Hbs.A wheat Hb cDNA (TaHb1) was isolated and shows a very high similarity to nonsymbiotic Hbs from Hordeum vulgare (98%) and Zea mays (83%). Another wheat Hb cDNA, designated TaHb2, exhibited strong similarity to truncated bacterial Hbs, the so-called 2-on-2 Hbs. In addition, a third Hb was cloned from potato, StHb. Expression analysis by RT-PCR demonstrated a very high expression level of the TaHb1 gene only in wheat roots. In contrast, the other wheat hemoglobin gene, TaHb2, was demonstrated to be constitutively expressed although differences in expression level in different tissues were observed. The expression of the TaHb1 gene is induced in wheat roots exposed to microaerobic conditions. The potato Hb gene, StHb, was highly expressed in roots and also in tubers and stem tissue although at much reduced levels.
Nicotianamine (NA), a chelator of metals, is ubiquitously present in higher plants. Nicotianamine aminotransferase (NAAT) catalyzes the amino group transfer of NA in the biosynthetic pathway of phytosiderophores and is essential for iron acquisition in graminaceous plants. The gene that encodes NAAT from barley was introduced into the nongraminaceous plant tobacco, which produces NA but not phytosiderophores. Transgenic tobacco plants (naat tobacco) that constitutively expressed the NAAT gene had young leaves with interveinal chlorosis and flowers that were abnormally shaped and sterile. Endogenous NA was consumed as a result of NAAT overproduction in naat tobacco. The resulting NA shortage caused disorders in internal metal transport, leading to these abnormal phenotypes. In addition to its role in long-distance metal transport, NA may be involved in the regulation of metal transfer within the cells. These results suggest that a shortage of NA impaired the functions of metal-requiring proteins, including transcription factors.
Translational regulation plays a key role in light-induced expression of photosynthesis-related genes at various levels in chloroplasts. We here present the results suggesting a mechanism for light-induced translation of the rbcL mRNA encoding the large subunit (LS) of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco). When 8-day-old dark-grown barley seedlings that have low plastid translation activity were illuminated for 16 h, a dramatic increase in synthesis of large subunit of Rubisco and global activation of plastid protein synthesis occurred. While an increase in polysome-associated rbcL mRNA was observed upon illumination for 16 h, the abundance of translation initiation complexes bound to rbcL mRNA remained constant, indicating that translation elongation might be controlled during this dark-to-light transition. Toeprinting of soluble rbcL polysomes after in organello plastid translation showed that ribosomes of rbcL translation initiation complexes could read-out into elongating ribosomes in illuminated plastids whereas in dark-grown plastids, read-out of ribosomes of translation initiation complexes was inhibited. Moreover, new rounds of translation initiation could also occur in illuminated plastids, but not in dark-grown plastids. These results suggest that translation initiation complexes for rbcL are normally formed in the dark, but the transition step of translation initiation complexes entering the elongation phase of protein synthesis and/or the elongation step might be inhibited, and this inhibition seems to be released upon illumination. The release of such a translational block upon illumination may contribute to light-activated translation of the rbcL mRNA.
There are a variety of methods for characterising gene expression at the level of individual cells and for demonstrating that the cells also contain the encoded proteins. However, measuring the activity of enzymes at the resolution of single cells in complex tissues, such as leaves, is problematic. We have addressed this by using single-cell sampling to extract 10-100 pl droplets of sap from individual plant cells and then measuring enzyme activities in these droplets with nanolitre-scale fluorescence-based assays. We have optimised these assays and used them to measure and characterise the activities of acid phosphatase, cysteine protease and nitrate reductase in sap samples from epidermal and mesophyll cells of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and Arabidopsis thaliana leaves exposed to different developmental and environmental conditions. During leaf senescence in barley, we found that the dynamics with which acid phosphatase and protease activities changed were different in each cell type and did not mirror the changes occurring at the whole-leaf level. Increases in nitrate reductase activities after exposure of barley plants to nitrate were large in mesophyll cells but small in epidermal cells. The technique was applied successfully to Arabidopsis and, as in barley, revealed cell-specific differences in the activities of both acid phosphatase and nitrate reductase. The assays add to the spectrum of techniques available for characterising cells within complex plant tissues, thus extending the opportunity to relate gene expression to biochemical activities at the single-cell level.
Plant virus-based vectors carrying sequences homologous to endogenous genes trigger silencing through a homology-dependent RNA degradation mechanism. This phenomenon, called virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS), has potential as a powerful reverse-genetics tool in functional genomic programmes through transient, loss-of-function screens. Here, we describe a method to enhance the robustness of the VIGS phenotype by increasing the level of dsRNA molecule production, a critical step in the VIGS response. Incorporation of 40-60 base direct inverted-repeats into a plant viral vector generates RNA molecules that form dsRNA hairpins. A tobacco mosaic virus (TMV)-based vector carrying such inverted-repeats, homologous to a green fluorescent protein (gfp) transgene or an endogenous phytoene desaturase (pds) gene, generated a stronger and more pervasive VIGS phenotype than constructs carrying corresponding cDNA fragments in sense or antisense orientation. Real-time RT-PCR indicated that there was up to a threefold reduction in target mRNA accumulation in the tissues where VIGS was triggered by constructs carrying inverted-repeats compared to those where it was triggered by sense or antisense constructs. Moreover, an enhanced VIGS pds phenotype was observed using a different vector, based on barley stripe mosaic virus, in the monocotyledonous host barley. This demonstrates that VIGS can be significantly improved through the inclusion of small inverted-repeats in plant virus-based vectors, generating a more robust loss-of-function phenotype. This suggests that dsRNA formation can be a limiting factor in the VIGS phenomenon.
Salicylic acid (SA) plays a key role in plant disease resistance and hypersensitive cell death but is also implicated in hardening responses to abiotic stressors. Cadmium (Cd) exposure increased the free SA contents of barley (Hordeum vulgare) roots by a factor of about 2. Cultivation of dry barley caryopses presoaked in SA-containing solution for only 6 h or single transient addition of SA at a 0.5 mM concentration to the hydroponics solution partially protected the seedlings from Cd toxicity during the following growth period. Both SA treatments had little effect on growth in the absence of Cd, but increased root and shoot length and fresh and dry weight and inhibited lipid peroxidation in roots, as indicated by malondialdehyde contents, in the presence of Cd. To test whether this protection was due to up-regulation of antioxidant enzymes, activities and transcript levels of the H(2)O(2)-metabolizing enzymes such as catalase and ascorbate peroxidase were measured in control and SA-treated seedlings in the presence or absence of 25 microM Cd. Cd stress increased the activity of these enzymes by variable extent. SA treatments strongly or completely suppressed the Cd-induced up-regulation of the antioxidant enzyme activities. Slices from leaves treated with SA for 24 h also showed an increased level of tolerance toward high Cd concentrations as indicated by chlorophyll a fluorescence parameters. The results support the conclusion that SA alleviates Cd toxicity not at the level of antioxidant defense but by affecting other mechanisms of Cd detoxification.
Moderate seed dormancy is desirable in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). It is difficult for breeders to manipulate seed dormancy in practical breeding programs because of complex inheritance and large environmental effects. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping opens a way for breeders to manipulate quantitative trait genes. A seed dormancy QTL, SD2, was mapped previously in an 8-cM interval near the chromosome 7 (5H) L telomere from a cross of 'Steptoe' (dormant)/'Morex' (non-dormant) by the North American Barley Genome Project using an interval mapping method and a relatively low-resolution genetic map. SD2 has a moderate dormancy effect, which makes it a promising candidate gene for moderate seed dormancy in barley cultivar development. The fine mapping of SD2 is required for efficient manipulation of SD2 in breeding and would facilitate the study of dormancy in barley. Ten different Morex isolines were generated, including regenerated Morex, of which nine lines had duplicates. The isolines together with Steptoe and Morex were grown in growth room and field environments for 2 years (2000 and 2001). In the growth room, relatively low growing temperatures (25 degrees C day/15 degrees C night) were employed to promote seed dormancy development. Seed germination percentage, determined at different post-harvest after-ripening periods, was used to measure seed dormancy. Fine mapping using the substitution mapping method based on differences among isolines resolved the SD2 QTL into an 0.8-cM interval between molecular markers MWG851D and MWG851B near the chromosome 7 (5H) L telomere. Relatively low temperatures (< or =25 degrees C) during seed development promoted the expression of the SD2 dormancy QTL. The chromosome region above the MWG851D-MWG851B interval might play a role in reducing barley seed dormancy during after-ripening.
The hypothesis that the extracellular concentration of sugars helps regulate the acclimation of plant cells to cold was tested in this work. Suspension cultures were used to control the concentration of sugars in the medium supplied to barley cell cultures (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Igri), replacing the medium daily to help maintain the concentration. Freezing tolerance and the levels of mRNA expression of the stress-response genes blt4.9 (coding for a non- specific lipid transfer protein) and dhn1 (coding for a dehydrin) were measured. Similar levels of freezing-tolerance and gene expression were obtained in the experiments as occur during cold-acclimation in the crown of the whole plant. In the cell cultures, cold (6/2 degrees C) did not induce an increase in freezing tolerance or in the expression of detectable levels of blt4.9 or dhn1 mRNAs when only 1 g l-1 sucrose was supplied. However, the cells in this low sucrose medium in the cold were not sugar-starved, indicating that this did not explain the failure of the cells to acclimate when grown in the cold environment. Ten g l-1 sucrose supplied to cells grown in the warm (25 degrees C) induced acclimation to freezing and up-regulation of expression of blt4.9 and dhn1 mRNAs. Osmolality of the medium did not explain this. Thirty g l-1 sucrose induced yet higher levels of freezing tolerance and of blt4.9 and dhn1 mRNAs in cultures grown in either the cold or the warm environment. The results implicate sugars in the regulation of cold acclimation
The majority of verified plant disease resistance genes isolated to date are of the NBS-LRR class, encoding proteins with a predicted nucleotide binding site (NBS) and a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) region. We took advantage of the sequence conservation in the NBS motif to clone, by PCR, gene fragments from barley representing putative disease resistance genes of this class. Over 30 different resistance gene analogs (RGAs) were isolated from the barley cultivar Regatta. These were grouped into 13 classes based on DNA sequence similarity. Actively transcribed genes were identified from all classes but one, and cDNA clones were isolated to derive the complete NBS-LRR protein sequences. Some of the NBS-LRR genes exhibited variation with respect to whether and where particular introns were spliced, as well as frequent premature polyadenylation. DNA sequences related to the majority of the barley RGAs were identified in the recently expanded public rice genomic sequence database, indicating that the rice sequence can be used to extract a large proportion of the RGAs from barley and other cereals. Using a combination of RFLP and PCR marker techniques, representatives of all barley RGA gene classes were mapped in the barley genome, to all chromosomes except 4H. A number of the RGA loci map in the vicinity of known disease resistance loci, and the association between RGA S-120 and the nematode resistance locus Ha2 on chromosome 2H was further tested by co-segregation analysis. Most of the RGA sequences reported here have not been described previously, and represent a useful resource as candidates or molecular markers for disease resistance genes in barley and other cereals.
Analysis of barley shrunken grain mutants has identified lines with a novel high amylose starch phenotype. The causal mutation is located at the sex6 locus on chromosome 7H, suggesting the starch synthase IIa (ssIIa) gene as a candidate gene altered by the mutation. Consistent with this hypothesis, no evidence of SSIIa protein expression in either the starch granule or soluble fractions of the endosperm was found. Sequences of the starch synthase IIa gene, ssIIa, from three independent sex6 lines showed the presence of a stop codon preventing translation of the ssIIa transcript in each line. Perfect segregation of the starch phenotype with the presence of stop codons in the ssIIa gene was obtained, providing strong evidence for the lesion in the ssIIa gene being the causal mutation for the sex6 phenotype. The loss of SSIIa activity in barley leads to novel and informative phenotypes. First, a decrease in amylopectin synthesis to less than 20% of the wild-type levels indicates that SSIIa accounts for the majority of the amylopectin polymer elongation activity in barley. Secondly, in contrast to high amylose starches resulting from branching enzyme downregulation, the sex6 starches have a shortened amylopectin chain length distribution and a reduced gelatinisation temperature. Thirdly, the mutation leads to pleiotropic effects on other enzymes of the starch biosynthesis pathway, abolishing the binding of SSI, branching enzyme IIa and branching enzyme IIb to the starch granules of sex6 mutants, while not significantly altering their expression levels in the soluble fraction.
Clostridium thermocellum produces one major beta-1,3-glucanase. Genomic DNA fragments containing the gene were cloned from two strains, DSM1237(T) (6848 bp) and F7 (9766 bp). Overlapping sequences were 99.9 % identical. The nucleotide sequences contained reading frames for a putative transposase, endo-beta-1,3-1,4-glucanase CelC, a putative transcription regulator of the LacI type, beta-1,3-glucanase Lic16A and a putative membrane protein. The licA genes of both strains encoded an identical protein of 1324 aa with a calculated molecular mass of 148 kDa. Lic16A is an unusually complex protein consisting of a leader peptide, a threefold repeat of an S-layer homologous module (SLH), an unknown module, a catalytic module of glycosyl hydrolase family 16 and a fourfold repeat of a carbohydrate-binding module of family CBM4a. The recombinant Lic16A protein was characterized as an endo-1,3(4)-beta-glucanase with a specific activity of 2680 and 340 U mg(-1) and a K(m) of 0.94 and 2.1 mg ml(-1) towards barley beta-glucan and laminarin, respectively. It was specific for beta-glucans containing beta-1,3-linkages with an optimum temperature of 70 degrees C at pH 6.0. The N-terminal SLH modules were cleaved from the protein as well in Escherichia coli as in C. thermocellum, but nevertheless bound tightly to the rest of the protein. Lic16A was located on the cell surface from which it could be purified after fractionated solubilization. Its inducible production allowed C. thermocellum to grow on beta-1,3- or beta-1,3-1,4-glucan.
A cDNA clone encoding the gamma-zein protein of maize was expressed in developing grain of barley using the starchy endosperm cell-specific promoter from the wheat Glu-1D-1 (HMW subunit 1Dx5) gene. Seven transgenic lines were recovered from 226 bombarded immature embryos, of which two were sterile and four tetraploid, while five were shown to express the gamma-zein protein based on western blotting. Southern blot analysis showed the presence of between about three and twelve transgene insertions. Detailed comparative studies of five null and five homozygous transformed sub-lines from transgenic line A showed that gamma-zein accounted for over 4% of the total prolamin fraction, corresponding to about 1.9% of the total grain N. Comparison of the proteins present in the gel protein fraction demonstrated that the gamma-zein was incorporated into polymers, as in maize. However, there was no effect on grain hardness measured using the Perten Single Kernel Characterisation System or on the vitreousness measured by visual inspection. This contrasts with the situation in maize where a clear association with vitreousness has been reported.
A barley SPINDLY protein, HvSPY, is a negative regulator of gibberellin (GA) action. It is also found to be a positive regulator of the promoter of a barley dehydrin (Dhn) gene which is abscisic acid (ABA) upregulated. To investigate whether HvSPY acts through the ABA signaling pathway to upregulate the Dhn promoter, functional characterization was carried out by co-bombardment experiments. These experiments used Dhn promoter-GUS reporter constructs and an effector construct to overexpress HvSPY protein in barley aleurone. ABA dose-response experiments with and without HvSPY overexpression showed that the induction by HvSPY occurred in addition to the ABA effect. Gibberellic acid (GA3) did not reduce the induction by ABA, but it had a small, although significant, effect on the ability of HvSPY to upregulate. The induction of promoter activity of Dhn by HvSPY required the intact protein, and a small deletion in the tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) region reduced this ability significantly. When a promoter region containing an element for ABA responsiveness was mutagenized or deleted, the mutant promoters lost ABA responsiveness but remained responsive to HvSPY. In addition, HvSPY did not increase promoter activities of other ABA-upregulated genes. Taken together, these results indicate that HvSPY and ABA both regulate promoter activity of Dhn, and that HvSPY acts independently of the ABA signaling pathway.
Indica and japonica rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants were transformed by particle bombardment with the Itr1 gene encoding the barley trypsin inhibitor BTI-CMe, under the control of its own promoter that confers endosperm specificity, and the maize ubiquitin promoter. From 38 independent transgenic lines of indica (breeding line IR58) and 15 of the japonica (cv Senia) selected, 22 and 11, respectively, expressed the barley inhibitor at detectable levels. The transgene was correctly translated as indicated by western blot analysis with a level of expression in R3 seeds up to 0.31% (IR58) and 0.43% (Senia) of the total extracted protein. The functional integrity of BTI-CMe was confirmed by trypsin activity assays in liquid media and by activity staining gels, performed with seed extracts. The significant reduction of the survival rate of the rice weevil (Sitophilus oryzae, Coleoptera: Curculionidae) reared on homozygous transgenic indica and japonica rice seeds expressing the BTI-CMe, compared to non-transformed controls, and the decrease in the trypsin-like activity of insect crude midgut extracts, confirmed the utility of this proteinase inhibitor gene for the control of important storage pests.
Qo-inhibiting fungicides act as respiration inhibitors by binding to the Qo center of cytochrome b. Sensitivities of fungi to Qo inhibitors can be influenced by the induction of alternative respiration or by mutational changes of the cytochrome b target site. Previous studies on both mechanisms in Magnaporthe grisea (Hebert) Barr were focused on the mycelial stage of the pathogen. The present study describes the expression and impact of both resistance mechanisms during the stage of conidia germination. In the absence of a host, alternative respiration provided a >500-fold rescue from azoxystrobin during the germination of conidia derived from four wild-type isolates of M. grisea. This rescue potential during conidia gemination was substantially more pronounced than for mycelial growth. However, the pronounced effectiveness of alternative respiration during conidia germination was not apparent when barley leaves were protected with azoxystrobin prior to inoculation with conidia. In a comparison of a wild-type strain and an alternative respiration-deficient mutant, azoxystrobin efficacies in suppressing symptom development differed by a factor of two, with full disease control achieved for both genotypes at 1 microg ml(-1) azoxystrobin. In contrast, conidia derived from two QoI-resistant target site mutants were highly resistant to azoxystrobin and trifloxystrobin and fully capable of infecting leaf surfaces protected with 10 microg ml(-1) of azoxystrobin. Both target-site mutants had emerged spontaneously in the presence of high azoxystrobin doses when residual mycelial growth was supported by alternative respiration. The effective silencing of alternative respiration in protective applications of Qo-inhibiting fungicides might constitute a strategy of slowing the emergence of highly resistant target site mutants.
A large number of resistance specificities to the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei map to the barley Mla locus. This complex locus harbors multiple members of three distantly related gene families that encode proteins that contain an N-terminal coiled-coil (CC) structure, a central nucleotide binding (NB) site, a Leu-rich repeat (LRR) region, and a C-terminal non-LRR (CT) region. We identified Mla12, which encodes a CC-NB-LRR-CT protein that shares 89 and 92% identical residues with the known proteins MLA1 and MLA6. Slow Mla12-triggered resistance was altered dramatically to a rapid response by overexpression of Mla12. A series of reciprocal domains swaps between MLA1 and MLA6 identified in each protein recognition domain for cognate powdery mildew fungus avirulence genes (AvrMla1 and AvrMla6). These domains were within different but overlapping LRR regions and the CT part. Unexpectedly, MLA chimeras that confer AvrMla6 recognition exhibited markedly different dependence on Rar1, a gene required for the function of some but not all Mla resistance specificities. Furthermore, uncoupling of MLA6-specific function from RAR1 also uncoupled the response from SGT1, a protein known to associate physically with RAR1. Our findings suggest that differences in the degree of RAR1 dependence of different MLA immunity responses are determined by intrinsic properties of MLA variants and place RAR1/SGT1 activity downstream of and/or coincident with the action of resistance protein-containing recognition complexes.
GAMYB is a gibberellin (GA)-regulated activator of hydrolase gene expression in the aleurone layer of germinating cereal grains. Although it is clear that GAMYB expression is regulated by GA, more remains to be understood about how this transcription factor operates within the GA-response pathway. In order to isolate new components from the GA-response pathway, barley aleurone libraries were screened for GAMYB-binding proteins using a recently developed yeast two-hybrid system, which is compatible with the use of transcription factors as baits. We isolated a new member of the emerging Mak-subgroup of cdc2- and MAP kinase-related protein kinases. We have termed this GAMYB-binding protein KGM (for kinase associated with GAMYB). Transient expression of KGM specifically repressed alpha-amylase promoter activity at the level of GAMYB function but a mutation designed to de-stabilise the activation loop of KGM alleviated this repression. We propose that KGM is a negative regulator of GAMYB function in aleurone that may prevent precocious hydrolase gene expression.
A barley cDNA clone encoding a putative cysteine protease with sequence homology to cathepsin B from mammalian cells has been characterized. This barley gene (CatB) is ubiquitously expressed, its mRNA being detected in leaves and roots, immature, mature and germinating embryos, in developing endosperms, and in aleurones upon germination, as assessed by northern blot analysis. The CatB mRNA expression in leaves increased by cold shock (6 degrees C), was not affected by wounding, and was under circadian control. These transcripts increased in the aleurone upon germination, whereas those for a cystatin encoding gene (Icy), that inhibits commercial cathepsin B in vitro, decreased. Gibberellin (GA) treatment of isolated barley aleurones induced and abscisic acid (ABA) repressed the steady-state levels of CatB mRNA, while Icy expression had an opposite pattern of mRNA accumulation in aleurones treated with GA. No response to GA or ABA was detected in leaves.
The expression of several barley (Hordeum vulgare) cold-regulated (cor) genes during cold acclimation was blocked in the albino mutant a(n), implying a chloroplast control on mRNAs accumulation. By using albino and xantha mutants ordered according to the step in chloroplast biogenesis affected, we show that the cold-dependent accumulation of cor14b, tmc-ap3, and blt14 mRNAs depends on plastid developmental stage. Plants acquire the ability to fully express cor genes only after the development of primary thylakoid membranes in their chloroplasts. To investigate the chloroplast-dependent mechanism involved in cor gene expression, the activity of a 643-bp cor14b promoter fragment was assayed in wild-type and albino mutant a(n) leaf explants using transient beta-glucuronidase reporter expression assay. Deletion analysis identified a 27-bp region between nucleotides -274 and -247 with respect to the transcription start point, encompassing a boundary of some element that contributes to the cold-induced expression of cor14b. However, cor14b promoter was equally active in green and in albino a(n) leaves, suggesting that chloroplast controls cor14b expression by posttranscriptional mechanisms. Barley mutants lacking either photosystem I or II reaction center complexes were then used to evaluate the effects of redox state of electron transport chain components on COR14b accumulation. In the mutants analyzed, the amount of COR14b protein, but not the steady-state level of the corresponding mRNA, was dependent on the redox state of the electron transport chain. Treatments of the vir-zb63 mutant with electron transport chain inhibitors showed that oxidized plastoquinone promotes COR14b accumulation, thus suggesting a molecular relationship between plastoquinone/plastoquinol pool and COR14b.
In barley (Hordeum vulgare), the Mla13 powdery mildew resistance gene confers Rar1-dependent, AvrMla13-specific resistance to Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh). We have identified cDNA and genomic copies of Mla13 and used this coiled-coil nucleotide-binding site leucine-rich repeat protein-encoding gene as a model for the regulation of host resistance to obligate biotrophic fungi in cereals. We demonstrate quantitatively that a rapid increase in the accumulation of Mla transcripts and transcripts of the Mla-signaling genes, Rar1 and Sgt1, is triggered between 16 and 20 h post inoculation, the same time frame that haustoria of avirulent Bgh make contact with the host cell plasma membrane. An abundance of Mla13 cDNAs revealed five classes of transcript leader regions containing two alternatively spliced introns and up to three upstream open reading frames (uORFs). Alternative splicing of introns in the transcript leader region results in a different number of uORFs and variability in the size of uORF2. These results indicate that regulation of Mla transcript accumulation is not constitutive and that induction is coordinately controlled by recognition-specific factors. The sudden increase in specific transcript levels could account for the rapid defense response phenotype conferred by Mla6 and Mla13.
Introduced transgenes, uidA, sgfp (S65T) and/or bar, were localized using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) on metaphase chromosomes of transgenic barley produced by microparticle bombardment of immature embryos. Of the 19 independent transgenic lines (eight diploid and 11 tetraploid), nine had uidA and ten had s gfp (S65T). All lines tested had three or more copies of the transgenes and 18 out of 19 lines had visibly different integration sites. At a gross level, it appeared that no preferential integration sites of foreign DNA among chromosomes were present in the lines tested; however, a distal preference for transgene integration was observed within the chromosome. In diploid T0 plants that gave a 3:1 segregation ratio of transgene expression in the T1, only single integration sites were detected on one of the homologous chromosomes. Homozygous diploid plants had doublet signals on a pair of homologous chromosomes. All tetraploid T0 plants that gave a 3:1 segregation ratio in the T1 generation had only a single integration site on one of the homologous chromosomes. In contrast, the single tetraploid T0 plant with a 35:1 segregation ratio in the T1 generation had doublet signals on a pair of homologous chromosomes. In the one tetraploid T0 line, which had a homozygote-like segregation ratio (45:0), there were doublet signals at two loci on separate chromosomes. We conclude that the application of FISH for analysis of transgenic plants is useful for the gross localization of transgene(s) and for early screening of homozygous plants.
Three major gene loci determining the anthocyanin pigmentation of coleoptiles were mapped on the short arms of chromosomes 7A, 7B and 7D, respectively. All three genes map about 15 to 20 cM distal from the centromere and, therefore, it may be concluded that they are members of a homoeologous series and should be designated Rc-A1, Rc-B1 and Rc-D1, respectively. Further homoeologous loci exist in Triticum durum, Triticum tauschii, and most probably in Secale cereale and Hordeum vulgare. By analyzing a syntheticxcultivated wheat cross (ITMI mapping population) under different environmental conditions it was shown that the expression of the genes determining anthocyanin pigmentation of the coleoptiles varies. One additional locus was detected on chromosome 4BL. Beside the mapping data, results of a screening for red coleoptile color genes in 468 mainly European wheat varieties are presented.
A cDNA sequence (Hbc8-2) isolated from pistils of the self-incompatible species Hordeum bulbosum was analysed for expression pattern and genetic map location. Hbc8-2 was expressed just prior to anthesis in mature pistils, and expression was maintained at a high level throughout anthesis. The same expression pattern was found in self-incompatible rye ( Secale cereale), but no expression was detected in the self-compatible cereals wheat ( Triticum aestivum) or barley ( Hordeum vulgare) at comparable stages of development. However, three wheat expressed sequence tags from a pre-anthesis library had high homology to Hbc8-2. Southern blot analyses using Hbc8-2 as a probe detected hybridising bands in the genomes of various Gramineae species including rye, barley, bread wheat, wild wheat relatives ( Aegilops tauschii and Ae. speltoides), oats ( Avena fatua and A. strigosa), rice ( Oryza sativa) and maize ( Zea mays). This suggests that Hbc8-2-like sequences are present in many species but that high levels of expression may be associated with self-incompatibility. Hbc8-2 was mapped on the long arms of chromosome 2H(b) of H. bulbosum, 2R of rye, and 2B and 2D of wheat and was assigned to chromosome 2H of barley using wheat/barley addition lines. On a H. bulbosum genetic map, Xhbc8-2 was located between Xbcd266 and Xpsr87, while in rye and wheat it was located in a 13.2-cM interval between Xpsr331 and Xpsr932, consistent with previous comparative mapping studies of these species. Mapping in rye suggested that Hbc8-2 is probably proximal to the Z self-incompatibility locus which was previously shown to be tightly linked to Xbcd266.
HvGAMYB is a transcription factor that was first identified in barley aleurone cells and shown to be upregulated by gibberellin (GA). Using RNA and immunoblot analysis we have shown HvGAMYB is also strongly expressed in barley anthers. Transgenic barley expressing a HvGAMYB:GFP fusion gene have been created and GAMYB expression in anthers analysed. GFP expression was clearly visible during early anther development in the nuclei of the epidermis, endothecium, middle layer and tapetum. Expression in the epidermis and endothecium persists until just prior to anther dehiscence, expression in the other two cell layers is visible until they are compressed and broken down as the microspores develop. Further evidence of a role for HvGAMYB in anther development was provided by the creation of transgenic barley over-expressing the HvGAMYB gene. Associated with the increase in HvGAMYB levels was a progressive decrease in anther size, particularly a decrease in anther length. Anthers also became increasingly lighter in colour. Anthers with fourfold more HvGAMYB protein than non-transgenic controls failed to dehisce and were male sterile, anthers with approximately three to fourfold endogenous GAMYB protein levels were smaller and paler but still shed normally. To investigate the hormonal regulation of HvGAMYB expression in anthers, HvGAMYB and SLN1 protein levels in anthers were analysed following application of GA3. As in cereal aleurone, HvGAMYB levels were found to increase and SLN1 levels decrease following GA3 application suggesting a similar GA-signalling pathway to that in aleurone exists in anthers.
Barley plants carrying a mutation in the Mlo (barley [Hordeum vulgare L.] cultivar Ingrid) locus conferring a durable resistance against powdery mildew are hypersusceptible to the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. It has been speculated that a functional Mlo gene is required for the expression of basic pathogen resistance and that the loss of Mlo function mediating powdery mildew resistance is an exception for this particular disease. Here, we report that the onset of acquired resistance (AR) after chemical as well as biological treatments is sufficient to overcome the hypersusceptible phenotype of backcross line BCIngridmlo5 (mlo) barley plants against M. grisea. Moreover, even barley plants bearing a functional Mlo gene and thus showing a moderate infection phenotype against rice blast exhibit a further enhanced resistance after induction of AR. Cytological investigations reveal that acquired resistance in mlo genotypes is manifested by the restoration of the ability to form an effective papilla at sites of attempted penetration, similarly to wild-type Mlo plants. In addition, the rate of effective papillae formation in Mlo plants was further enhanced after the onset of AR. These results demonstrate that treatments leading to the AR state in barley function independently of the Mlo/mlo phenotype and suggest that the Mlo protein is not a component of the AR signaling network. Moreover, it seems that only concomitant action of Mlo together with AR permits high level resistance in barley against blast. Higher steady state levels of PR1 and barley chemically induced mRNA correlate with higher disease severity rather than with the degree of resistance observed in this particular interaction.
Sucrose-phosphatase (SPP; EC 3.1.3.24) catalyzes the final step in the pathway of sucrose biosynthesis and higher plants contain multiple isoforms of the enzyme encoded by different genes. The genome of the dicotyledonous plant Arabidopsis thaliana (thale cress) contains four SPP-like genes on chromosomes 1 (AtSPP1), 2 (AtSPP2) and 3 (AtSPP3a and AtSPP3b), all of which are expressed. The genome of the monocotyledonous plant rice (Oryza sativa) also contains four SPP-like genes, which have very similar exon-intron structures to those from A. thaliana. Two cDNA clones that encode catalytically active SPP enzymes have been isolated from maize (Zea mays), showing that this species contains at least two functional SPP genes. Multiple SPP-like cDNA clones have also been identified from wheat (Triticum aestivum), barley (Hordeum vulgare) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum). The genomes of two cyanobacteria, Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 and Anabaena sp. PCC 7120, contain single spp genes. The cyanobacterial SPPs and the N-terminal region of the higher plant enzyme share significant similarity with members of the haloacid dehalogenase (HAD) superfamily of hydrolases/phosphatases. In addition to the HAD phosphatase domain, SPP from higher plants also contains a shorter, C-terminal domain of unknown function. An SPP-like sequence from the bryophyte (moss) Physcomitrella patens also contains this C-terminal domain, indicating that its acquisition was an early event in the evolution of higher plants.
To analyse carbohydrate metabolism and its role during early seed development of barley we characterised genes encoding two cell wall-bound invertases (HvCWINV1 and HvCWINV2) and two putative hexose transporter-like genes (HvSTP1 and HvSTP2). No typical vacuolar invertase gene could be identified. Instead, a gene encoding sucrose:fructan 6-fructosyltransferase (HvSF6FT1), an enzyme with soluble acid invertase activity, was isolated and characterised. Furthermore, enzyme activities and sugar levels were measured. HvSF6FT1-mRNA levels and acid soluble invertase activity are highest in the maternal pericarp 1-2 days after flowering (DAF). HvSF6FT1 is strongly expressed in regions flanking the main vascular bundle and to a lower extent in filial endospermal transfer cells, which persist until maturity and never accumulate starch. In contrast, cell wall-bound invertase HvCWINV2 is expressed early in development mainly in the style region and later on in pericarp areas which transiently accumulate starch and undergo degradation later in development. The hexose transporter HvSTP2 shows a temporal and spatial expression pattern similar to HvCWINV2. Transcripts of HvCWINV1 have been localised within the first row of endospermal cells and in the outermost area of the nucellar projection as well as in endospermal transfer cells before starch filling; the same regions of the endosperm are labelled with a hexose transporter HvSTP1-probe. HvSTP1 is expressed at very low levels within the pericarp but much higher in the syncytial endosperm at 3 DAF and in endospermal transfer cells 7 DAF. The temporal and spatial association of HvCWINV1 and HvSTP1 expression indicates that hexoses liberated by the invertase within the endospermal cavity are taken up by the transporter to be delivered into the central uncellularised space of the endosperm to supply mitotically active endosperm cells with hexoses. The results are discussed and compared with published data on the role of soluble sugars as signal molecules in seed developmental processes.
An HvCBF2 cDNA was isolated from barley leaves. It encoded a protein containing an AP2 DNA-binding domain homologous to C-repeat (CRT)/dehydration-responsive element (DRE) binding factors (CBF/DREB1). In contrast to the previously reported cold-inducible CBF/DREB1 genes, HvCBF2 was expressed in barley leaves under non-stress conditions. Only a transient increase in the HvCBF2 transcript level was observed during cold treatment. Transactivation analysis showed that HvCBF2 was a transcriptional activator, capable of activating expression of a reporter gene driven by a low-temperature and drought-responsive HVA1s promoter in barley leaves. The activity of HvCBF2 as a transcriptional activator was upregulated by low temperature. DNA-binding analysis revealed that HvCBF2 did not bind to the CRT/DRE motif at 30 degrees C. A low, but detectable, binding activity was observed at 25 degrees C and the binding activity gradually increased as the temperature decreased. The binding activity at 0 degrees C was the highest and more than 10 times higher than that at 25 degrees C. The activation and inactivation of HvCBF2 activity were reversible and were achieved in a cell-free system simply by temperature change. Analysis of the binding sequence showed that HvCBF2 bound to a (G/a)(T/c)CGAC core motif, where the lower-case letters are less efficient bases. These data suggest that HvCBF2 is a transcription factor interacting with the core CRT/DRE motif containing a preferred sequence of GTCGAC and its DNA-binding activity is regulated by temperature. This represents a new type of activation mechanism for transcriptional activators.
Functional analysis of hydrolase gene promoters, induced by gibberellin (GA) in aleurone cells following germination, has identified a GA-responsive complex (GARC) as a tripartite element containing a pyrimidine-box motif 5'-CCTTTT-3'. We describe here the characterization of a new barley gene (Sad gene) encoding a transcription factor (SAD) of the DNA binding with One Finger (DOF) class that binds to the pyrimidine box in vitro and activates transcription of a GA-induced protease promoter in bombarded aleurone layers. RT-PCR and in situ hybridization analyses showed that the Sad transcripts accumulated in all tissues analysed, being especially abundant in the scutellum and aleurone cells upon seed germination. The SAD protein, expressed in bacteria, binds in a specific manner to two oligonucleotides containing the sequence 5'-G/CCTTTT/C-3', derived from the promoter region of the Al21 gene encoding a cathepsin B-like cysteine protease. Although the Sad transcript accumulation did not respond to external GA-incubation in aleurone cells, in transient expression experiments in co-bombarded aleurone layers, SAD trans-activated transcription from the Al21 promoter in a similar manner as did GAMYB, a MYB protein previously shown to respond to GA and to activate several hydrolase gene promoters in barley aleurone cells. In vivo interaction between the GAMYB and SAD proteins was shown in the yeast two-hybrid system, where GAMYB potentiates the SAD trans-activation capacity through interaction with its C-terminal domain.
This study conducted according to a 4 x 4 Latin square with 28 d periods and four ruminally cannulated Finnish Ayrshire cows investigated the effect of protein supplements differing in amino acid (AA) profile and rumen undegradable protein content on postruminal AA supply and milk production. Mammary metabolism of plasma AA and other nutrients were also studied. The basal diet (Control; 13.4% crude protein) consisted of grass silage and barley in a ratio of 55:45 on a dry matter basis. The other three isonitrogenous diets (17.0% crude protein) were control + fishmeal (FM), control + soybean meal (SBM), and control + corn gluten meal (CGM). The protein supplements replaced portions of dry matter of the control diet maintaining the silage to barley ratio constant for all diets. Dry matter intake was limited to 95% of the preexperimental ad libitum intake and was similar (mean 19.8 kg/d dry matter) across the diets. Protein supplements increased milk, lactose, and protein yields but did not affect yields of energy-corrected milk or milk fat. Milk protein yield response was numerically lowest for diet SBM. Protein supplements increased milk protein concentration but decreased milk fat and lactose concentrations. Microbial protein synthesis and rumen fermentation parameters were similar across the diets, except for an increased rumen ammonia concentration for diets supplemented with protein feeds. Protein supplements increased N intake, ruminal organic matter and N, and total tract organic matter, N, and neutral detergent fiber digestibilities. Protein supplements also increased N and AA flows into the omasum, with SBM giving the lowest and CGM the highest flows. This was associated with an unchanged microbial N flow and a higher undegraded dietary N flow. The omasal flows of individual AA reflected differences in total N flow and AA profile of the experimental diets. Differences in AA flows did not always reflect plasma AA concentrations. The results indicated that AA supply of dairy cows fed a grass silage-cereal diet can be manipulated using protein supplements differing in ruminal protein degradability and AA profile. Lower milk production response to SBM than that to FM and CGM appeared to be related mainly to lower N and AA supplies arising from a high ruminal protein degradability of SBM. Histidine appeared to be the first limiting AA for milk protein synthesis on the control diet. Mammary gland may regulate AA uptake according to requirements.
The abscisic acid (ABA) response promoter complexes (ABRCs) of the HVA1 and HVA22 genes have been shown to confer ABA-induced gene expression in cereals. A barley basic domain/Leu zipper (bZIP) transcription factor, HvABI5, is able to recognize ABRCs in vitro in a sequence-specific manner and to transactivate ABRC-beta-glucuronidase reporter genes when introduced to barley aleurone cells via particle bombardment. This transactivation is dependent on the presence of another transcription factor, HvVP1, and cannot be blocked by the negative regulator abi1-1. Using the double-stranded RNA interference technique, we show that HvABI5 and HvVP1 are necessary for the ABA induction of gene expression but have no effect on another hormone-regulated process, the gibberellin-induced and ABA-suppressed expression of alpha-amylase. Our work indicates that although other typical plant bZIP transcription factors may bind ABRCs in vitro, HvABI5 is related to a subfamily of bZIPs responsible for the ABA induction of gene expression. Furthermore, HvABI5 and HvVP1 are not involved in the ABA suppression of gene expression.
Expression of the plastid rRNA operon (rrn) during development is highly regulated at the level of transcription. The plastid rrn operon in most higher plants is transcribed by the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase (PEP), the multisubunit plastid RNA polymerase from PrrnP1, a sigma(70)-type promoter with conserved -10 and -35 core promoter elements. To identify functionally important sequences, the tobacco PrrnP1 was dissected in vivo and in vitro. Based on in vivo deletion analysis, sequences upstream of nucleotide -83 do not significantly contribute to promoter function. The in vitro analyses identified an essential hexameric sequence upstream of the -35 element (GTGGGA; the rRNA operon upstream activator [RUA]) that is conserved in monocot and dicot species and suggested that the -10 element plays only a limited role in PrrnP1 recognition. Mutations in the initial transcribed sequence (+9 to +14) enhanced transcription, the characteristic of strong promoters in prokaryotes. We propose that sigma interaction with the -10 element in PrrnP1 is replaced in part by direct PEP-RUA (protein-DNA) interaction or by protein-protein interaction between the PEP and an RUA binding transcription factor.
The stem-rust-susceptible barley cv. Golden Promise was transformed by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of immature zygotic embryos with the Rpg1 genomic clone of cv. Morex containing a 520-bp 5' promoter region, 4,919-bp gene region, and 547-bp 3' nontranscribed sequence. Representatives of 42 transgenic barley lines obtained were characterized for their seedling infection response to pathotype Pgt-MCC of the stem rust fungus Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici. Golden Promise was converted from a highly susceptible cultivar into a highly resistant one by transformation with the dominant Rpg1 gene. A single copy of the gene was sufficient to confer resistance against stem rust, and progenies from several transformants segregated in a 3:1 ratio for resistancesusceptibility as expected for Mendelian inheritance. These results unequivocally demonstrate that the DNA segment isolated by map-based cloning is the functional Rpg1 gene for stem rust, resistance. One of the remarkable aspects about the transformants is that they exhibit a higher level of resistance than the original sources of Rpg1 (cvs. Chevron and Peatland). In most cases, the Golden Promise transformants exhibited a highly resistant reaction where no visible sign of infection was evident. Hypersensitive necrotic "fleck" reactions were also observed, but less frequently. With both infection types, pathogen sporulation was prevented. Southern blot and RT-PCR analysis revealed that neither Rpg1 gene copy number nor expression levels could account for the increased resistance observed in Golden Promise transformants. Nevertheless, this research demonstrates that stem-rust-susceptible barley can be made resistant by transformation with the cloned Rpg1 gene.
Data from plants transformed to accumulate fructan are assessed in the context of natural concentrations of reserve carbohydrates and natural fluxes of carbon in primary metabolism: Transgenic fructan accumulation is universally reported as an instantaneous endpoint concentration. In exceptional cases, concentrations of 60-160 mg g(-1) fresh mass were reported and compare favourably with naturally occurring maximal starch and fructan content in leaves and storage organs. Generally, values were less than 20 mg g(-1) for plants transformed with bacterial genes and <9 mg g(-1) for plant-plant transformants. Superficially, the results indicate a marked modification of carbon partitioning. However, transgenic fructan accumulation was generally constitutive and involved accumulation over time-scales of weeks or months. When calculated as a function of accumulation period, fluxes into the transgenic product were low, in the range 0.00002-0.03 nkat g(-1). By comparison with an estimated minimum daily carbohydrate flux in leaves for a natural fructan-accumulating plant in field conditions (37 nkat g(-1)), transgenic fructan accumulation was only 0.00005-0.08% of primary carbohydrate flux and does not indicate radical modification of carbon partitioning, but rather, a quantitatively minor leakage into transgenic fructan. Possible mechanisms for this low fructan accumulation in the transformants are considered and include: (i) rare codon usage in bacterial genes compared with eukaryotes, (ii) low transgene mRNA concentrations caused by low expression and/or high turnover, (iii) resultant low expression of enzyme protein, (iv) resultant low total enzyme activity, (v) inappropriate kinetic properties of the gene products with respect to substrate concentrations in the host, (vi) in situ product hydrolysis, and (vii) levan toxicity. Transformants expressing bacterial fructan synthesis exhibited a number of aberrant phenotypes such as stunting, leaf bleaching, necrosis, reduced tuber number and mass, tuber cortex discoloration, reduction in starch accumulation, and chloroplast agglutination. In severe cases of developmental aberration, potato tubers were replaced by florets. Possible mechanisms to explain these aberrations are discussed. In most instances, the attempted subcellular targeting of the transgene product was not demonstrated. Where localization was attempted, the transgene product generally mis-localized, for example, to the cell perimeter or to the endomembrane system, instead of the intended target, the vacuole. Fructosyltransferases exhibited different product specificities in planta than in vitro, expression in planta generally favouring the formation of larger fructan oligomers and polymers. This implies a direct influence of the intracellular environment on the capacity for polymerization of fructosyltransferases and may have implications for the mechanism of natural fructan polymerization in vivo.
Genes from the SNF2 family play important roles in transcriptional regulation, maintenance of chromosome integrity and DNA repair. This study describes the molecular cloning and characterization of cereal genes from this family. The predicted proteins exhibit a novel C-terminal domain that defines a new subfamily designated SNF2P that includes human and mouse proteins. Comparison between genomic and cDNA sequences showed that cereal Snf2P genes consisted of 17 exons, including one only 8 bp long. Two barley alleles differed by the presence of a 7.7-kb non-LTR retrotransposon in intron 6. An alternative annotation of the orthologous Arabidopsis gene would improve its similarity with the other members of the subfamily. Intron 2 was not spliced out in approximately half of the rice Snf2P mRNAs present in leaves, resulting in a premature stop codon. Transcripts from the barley and wheat Snf2P genes were found in apexes, leaves, sheaths, roots and spikes. The Snf2P genes exist as single copies on wheat chromosome arm 5A(m)L and in the colinear regions on barley chromosome arm 4HL and rice chromosome 3. High-density genetic mapping and RT-PCR suggest that Snf2P is not a candidate gene for the tightly linked vernalization gene Vrn2.
In addition to a previously characterized 13-lipoxygenase of 100 kDa encoded by LOX2:Hv:1 [Vörös et al., Eur. J. Biochem. 251 (1998), 36-44], two full-length cDNAs (LOX2:Hv:2, LOX2:Hv:3) were isolated from barley leaves (Hordeum vulgare cv. Salome) and characterized. Both of them encode 13-lipoxygenases with putative target sequences for chloroplast import. Immunogold labeling revealed preferential, if not exclusive, localization of lipoxygenase proteins in the stroma. The ultrastructure of the chloroplast was dramatically altered following methyl jasmonate treatment, indicated by a loss of thylakoid membranes, decreased number of stacks and appearance of numerous osmiophilic globuli. The three 13-lipoxygenases are differentially expressed during treatment with jasmonate, salicylate, glucose or sorbitol. Metabolite profiling of free linolenic acid and free linoleic acid, the substrates of lipoxygenases, in water floated or jasmonate-treated leaves revealed preferential accumulation of linolenic acid. Remarkable amounts of free 9- as well as 13-hydroperoxy linolenic acid were found. In addition, metabolites of these hydroperoxides, such as the hydroxy derivatives and the respective aldehydes, appeared following methyl jasmonate treatment. These findings were substantiated by metabolite profiling of isolated chloroplasts, and subfractions including the envelope, the stroma and the thylakoids, indicating a preferential occurrence of lipoxygenase-derived products in the stroma and in the envelope. These data revealed jasmonate-induced activation of the hydroperoxide lyase and reductase branch within the lipoxygenase pathway and suggest differential activity of the three 13-lipoxygenases under different stress conditions.
The effects of jasmonic acid (JA) on secondary metabolism in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) were investigated. A reversed-phase HPLC analysis revealed that the amount of a particular compound increased in excised barley leaf segments that had been treated with JA. This compound was purified and identified as 6'''-feruloylsaponarin (1) by spectroscopic analyses and alkaline hydrolysis. A related compound, 6'''-sinapoylsaponarin (2), was also found to accumulate in excised leaves independently of the JA treatment. The accumulation of these compounds was accompanied by a decrease in the saponarin (3) content. [8,9-(13)C]p-Coumaric acid and [2,3,4,5,6-(2)H]L-phenylalanine were effectively incorporated into the hydroxycinnamoyl moieties in 1 and 2, while the degree of incorporation of the labeled precursors into the saponarin part was small. These findings indicate that the hydroxycinnamoyl moieties of 1 and 2 are synthesized de novo from phenylalanine via the phenylpropanoid pathway, and that the saponarin part is mainly provided by the constitutive pool of 3.
RNA silencing is a natural defense mechanism against genetic stress factors, including viruses. A mutant hordeivirus (Barley stripe mosaic virus [BSMV]) lacking the gammab gene was confined to inoculated leaves in Nicotiana benthamiana, but systemic infection was observed in transgenic N. benthamiana expressing the potyviral silencing suppressor protein HCpro, suggesting that the gammab protein may be a long-distance movement factor and have antisilencing activity. This was shown for gammab proteins of both BSMV and Poa semilatent virus (PSLV), a related hordeivirus. Besides the functions in RNA silencing suppression, gammab and HCpro had analogous effects on symptoms induced by the hordeiviruses. Severe BSMV-induced symptoms were correlated with high HCpro concentrations in the HCpro-transgenic plants, and substitution of the gammab cistron of BSMV with that of PSLV led to greatly increased symptom severity and an altered pattern of viral gene expression. The efficient systemic infection with the chimera was followed by the development of dark green islands (localized recovery from infection) in leaves and exemption of new developing leaves from infection. Recovery and the accumulation of short RNAs diagnostic of RNA silencing in the recovered tissues in wild-type N. benthamiana were suppressed in HCpro-transgenic plants. These results provide evidence that potyviral HCpro and hordeivirus gammab proteins contribute to systemic viral infection, symptom severity, and RNA silencing suppression. HCpro's ability to suppress the recovery of plants from viral infection emphasizes recovery as a manifestation of RNA silencing.
Homologs of barley Mlo are found in syntenic positions in all three genomes of hexaploid bread wheat, Triticum aestivum, and in rice, Oryza sativa. Candidate wheat orthologs, designated TaMlo-A1, TaMlo-B1, and TaMlo-D1, encode three distinct but highly related proteins that are 88% identical to barley MLO and appear to originate from the three diploid ancestral genomes of wheat. TaMlo-B1 and the rice ortholog, OsMlo2, are able to complement powdery mildew-resistant barley mlo mutants at the single-cell level. Overexpression of TaMlo-B1 or barley Mlo leads to super-susceptibility to the appropriate powdery mildew formae speciales in both wild-type barley and wheat. Surprisingly, overexpression of either Mlo or TaMlo-B1 also mediates enhanced fungal development to tested inappropriate formae speciales. These results underline a regulatory role for MLO and its wheat and rice orthologs in a basal defense mechanism that can interfere with forma specialis resistance to powdery mildews.
In most species, the synthesis of ADP-glucose (Glc) by the enzyme ADP-Glc pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) occurs entirely within the plastids in all tissues so far examined. However, in the endosperm of many, if not all grasses, a second form of AGPase synthesizes ADP-Glc outside the plastid, presumably in the cytosol. In this paper, we show that in the endosperm of wheat (Triticum aestivum), the cytosolic form accounts for most of the AGPase activity. Using a combination of molecular and biochemical approaches to identify the cytosolic and plastidial protein components of wheat endosperm AGPase we show that the large and small subunits of the cytosolic enzyme are encoded by genes previously thought to encode plastidial subunits, and that a gene, Ta.AGP.S.1, which encodes the small subunit of the cytosolic form of AGPase, also gives rise to a second transcript by the use of an alternate first exon. This second transcript encodes an AGPase small subunit with a transit peptide. However, we could not find a plastidial small subunit protein corresponding to this transcript. The protein sequence of the purified plastidial small subunit does not match precisely to that encoded by Ta.AGP.S.1 or to the predicted sequences of any other known gene from wheat or barley (Hordeum vulgare). Instead, the protein sequence is most similar to those of the plastidial small subunits from chickpea (Cicer arietinum) and maize (Zea mays) and rice (Oryza sativa) seeds. These data suggest that the gene encoding the major plastidial small subunit of AGPase in wheat endosperm has yet to be identified.
We describe a highly efficient two-step single-cell reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction technique for analyzing gene expression at the single-cell level. Good reproducibility and a linear dose response indicated that the technique has high specificity and sensitivity for detection and quantification of rare RNA. Actin could be used as an internal standard. The expression of message for Rubisco small subunit (RbcS), chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (Cab), sucrose (Suc):fructan-6-fructosyl transferase (6-SFT), and Actin were measured in individual photosynthetic cells of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) leaf. Only Actin was found in the non-photosynthetic epidermal cells. Cab, RbcS, and 6-SFT genes were expressed at a low level in mesophyll and parenchymatous bundle sheath (BS) cells when sampled from plants held in dark for 40 h. Expression increased considerably after illumination. The amount of 6-SFT, Cab, and RbcS transcript increased more in mesophyll cells than in the parenchymatous BS cells. The difference may be caused by different chloroplast structure and posttranscriptional control in mesophyll and BS cells. When similar single-cell samples were assayed for Suc, glucose, and fructan, there was high correlation between 6-SFT gene expression and Suc and glucose concentrations. This is consistent with Suc concentration being the trigger for transcription. Together with earlier demonstrations that the mesophyll cells have a higher sugar threshold for fructan polymerization, our data may indicate separate control of transcription and enzyme activity. Values for the sugar concentrations of the individual cell types are reported.
Colonization of barley (Hordeum vulgare cv Salome) roots by an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus, Glomus intraradices Schenck & Smith, leads to elevated levels of endogenous jasmonic acid (JA) and its amino acid conjugate JA-isoleucine, whereas the level of the JA precursor, oxophytodienoic acid, remains constant. The rise in jasmonates is accompanied by the expression of genes coding for an enzyme of JA biosynthesis (allene oxide synthase) and of a jasmonate-induced protein (JIP23). In situ hybridization and immunocytochemical analysis revealed that expression of these genes occurred cell specifically within arbuscule-containing root cortex cells. The concomitant gene expression indicates that jasmonates are generated and act within arbuscule-containing cells. By use of a near-synchronous mycorrhization, analysis of temporal expression patterns showed the occurrence of transcript accumulation 4 to 6 d after the appearance of the first arbuscules. This suggests that the endogenous rise in jasmonates might be related to the fully established symbiosis rather than to the recognition of interacting partners or to the onset of interaction. Because the plant supplies the fungus with carbohydrates, a model is proposed in which the induction of JA biosynthesis in colonized roots is linked to the stronger sink function of mycorrhizal roots compared with nonmycorrhizal roots.
The barley (Hordeum vulgare) cDNA HvS40 represents a gene with enhanced mRNA level during leaf senescence. Biolistic transformation of onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cell layers with a glucuronidase fusion protein construct provided evidence that the 15.4-kD protein encoded by HvS40 is localized to the nucleus. Expression of the gene is induced by jasmonate and salicylic acid; both are known to act as signaling compounds during senescence and defense toward pathogens. Transcript levels of HvS40 were observed to be particularly high in leaf sectors that undergo necrosis and chlorosis after infection with Pyrenophora teres. This pathogen-related expression is, in contrast, clearly reduced in transgenic barley plants expressing a stilbene synthase from grape (Vitis vinifera), whereas the mRNA level of a gene encoding the pathogen-related protein HvPR1 is unaffected. In situ hybridization with HvS40 antisense RNA revealed that during leaf senescence, the HvS40 transcript predominantly accumulates in the mesophyll. Taken together, the findings suggest a connection between the nuclear protein encoded by HvS40 and the degeneration of chloroplasts occurring during senescence and during infection of barley wild-type plants with P. teres.
Expression of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) HVA22 gene is induced by environmental stresses, such as dehydration, salinity, and extreme temperatures, and by a plant stress hormone, abscisic acid. Genes sharing high level of sequence similarities with HVA22 exist in diverse eukaryotic organisms, including animals, plants, and fungi, but not in any prokaryotic organisms. The yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) HVA22 homolog, Yop1p, has been shown to interact with the GTPase-interacting protein, Yip1p. Deletion of YOP1 led to only a modest reduction of the stationary phase titer at 37C. A synthetic enhancement mutant screen was performed in the yop1 deletion background to identify genes interacting with YOP1. The open reading frame YOR165W (renamed SEY1 for synthetic enhancement of YOP1) was identified as a YOP1-dependent complementation gene. The yeast SEY1 is a homolog of the Arabidopsis RHD3 gene whose mutations cause the accumulation of transport vesicles near the tips of defective root hairs. The yeast double mutant of yop1 and sey1 is defective in vesicular traffic as evidenced by the accumulation of transport vesicles and the decrease in invertase secretion. Based on these observations, we suggest that Yop1p/HVA22 regulates vesicular traffic in stressed cells either to facilitate membrane turnover, or to decrease unnecessary secretion.
The gene encoding the green fluorescent protein (GFP) has been widely used in studies of gene expression. The GFP can be detected nondestructively in living cells or tissues by the green fluorescence of the protein under blue light. Solutions of enhanced GFP (EGFP) of known concentration were filled in glass capillaries and used to calibrate a method for quantitative determination of EGFP or GFP-S65T in plant cells. Images captured by a digital camera were analyzed to determine the linear range for measurement of EGFP expression. The value of the method was illustrated by analysis of the relative levels of GFP expression under control of different promoters in aleurone cells of barley.
The sequencing of several complete genomes and the development of a DNA microarray technology are among the most important achievements of molecular biology. They gave the proper grounds for the development of modern functional genomics. However, there is one additional condition which needs to be satisfied to truely enable the study of how a genome works: a suitable method of selectively inducing and silencing the expression of each individual gene. The methods used so far have usually only permitted the influencing of gene expression through genetic manipulations at the DNA level (genetically modified plants). The discovery of RNA interference (RNAi) opens up completely new possibilities of research on the functioning of particular plant genes, without the necessity of altering the genome structure. In this case, interference takes place at the transcript level. Thus, at any given moment during plant development, the expression of a specific gene (or several genes) can be inhibited, even if it is important for the survival of the organism under study. To this end, a double-stranded RNA inducing the RNAi phenomenon has to be delivered into the plant cell. Here we describe the construction of four brome mosaic virus-based vectors, which, as our preliminary data indicate, can be used to transfer RNA into barley cells.
We present the effects of cytoplasm substitution on five productivity traits in an alloplasmic barley collection. 60 lines combining 5 nuclear genomes of cultivated barley varieties and 12 plasmons of two barley species (H. vulgare, H. spontaneum) displayed various effects depending on definite nuclei-cytoplasm combinations. Only four cytoplasmic genomes (W1, W4, W5, W10) significantly modified the expression of the nuclear genes controlling productivity. RAPD-PCR analysis revealed that both the mitochondrial and chloroplast DNA of the W1, W5, and W10 lines have common molecular characters distinguishing them from the cytoplasmic genomes of the other lines. The cytoplasmic genetic factors influencing the expression of "productivity" genes remain elusive.
The cDNAs CnHAK1 and CnHAK2, encoding K+ transporters, were amplified from the leaves of the seagrass Cymodocea nodosa. None of these transporters suppressed the K+ deficiency of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant, but both suppressed the equivalent defect of an Escherichia coli mutant. Overexpression of the transporter CnHAKI, but not CnHAK2, mediated very rapid K+ or Rb+ influxes in the E. coli mutant. The concentration dependence of these influxes demonstrated that CnHAK1 is a low-affinity K+ transporter, which does not discriminate between K+ and Rb+. CnHAK1 expressed in E. coli worked in reverse when the external K+ concentrations were low, and we established the condition of a simple functional test of K+ loss for transporters of the Kup-HAK family. In comparison with its homologue barley transporter HvHAK2, CnHAKI was insensitive to Na+.
Proteolysis is crucial for all living cells. It regulates protein processing, intracellular protein levels and removes abnormal or damaged proteins from the cell, working as a cellular housekeeper. By means of proteolysis, cells can control the short-lived regulatory proteins that affect processes such as signal transduction and reception, transcription, division and cellular growth. Proteolysis also furnishes amino acids for the de novo synthesis of proteins. In germinating seeds, its main role is to degrade storage proteins into small peptides and amino acids that can be used by the embryo during autotrophic growth. We have isolated and purified a serine endopeptidase, one of the many proteolytic enzymes that occur in germinated barley seeds (green malt), using chromatofocusing and DEAE-, CM-, and size-exclusion chromatographies. The enzyme, named SEP-1, has a molecular weight of 70 kDa, as estimated by both sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and size-exclusion chromatography. SEP-1 was detected and measured by its ability to digest gelatin in gels and to hydrolyze the synthetic substrate N-succinyl Ala-Ala-Pro-Leu p-nitroanilide. The hydrolysis of the synthetic substrate was optimal at pH 6.5 and 50 degrees C with a K(m) of 2.6 mM. The enzyme was inhibited by phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and p-amidinophenyl methanesulfonyl fluoride but not by any other class-specific inhibitor, suggesting it was a serine endopeptidase. Its amino acid sequence was similar to those of other plant subtilisin-like serine peptidases (EC 3.4.21), especially to the cucumisin-like group. SEP-1 was present in resting seeds, and its activity increased during germination in all of the malted barley tissues except for the endosperm, where it never occurred, suggesting that the enzyme is not likely involved in storage-protein degradation.
Reasons for the variable amylose content of endosperm starch from waxy cultivars of barley (Hordeum vulgare) were investigated. The mature grains of most such cultivars contain some amylose, although amounts are much lower than in wild-type cultivars. In these low-amylose cultivars, amylose synthesis starts relatively late in grain development. Starch granules in the outer cell layers of the endosperm contain more amylose than those in the center. This distribution corresponds to that of granule-bound starch synthase I (GBSSI), which is more severely reduced in amount in the center of the endosperm than in the outer cell layers, relative to wild-type cultivars. A second GBSSI in the barley plant, GBSSIb, is not detectable in the endosperm and cannot account for amylose synthesis in the low-amylose cultivars. The change in the expression of GBSSI in the endosperm of the low-amylose cultivars appears to be due to a 413-bp deletion of part of the promoter and 5'-untranslated region of the gene. Although these cultivars are of diverse geographical origin, all carry this same deletion, suggesting that the low-amylose cultivars have a common waxy ancestor. Records suggest a probable source in China, first recorded in the 16th century. Two further families of waxy cultivars have no detectable amylose in the endosperm starch. These amylose-free cultivars were selected in the 20th century from chemically mutagenized populations of wild-type barley. In both cases, 1-bp alterations in the GBSSI gene completely eliminate GBSSI activity.
Functional analyses of a number of hydrolase gene promoters, induced by gibberellin (GA) in aleurone cells following germination, have identified a GA-responsive complex as a tripartite element containing a pyrimidine box motif 5'-CCTTTT-3'. We describe here that BPBF, a barley (Hordeum vulgare) transcription factor of the DOF (DNA-Binding with One Finger) class, previously shown to be an activator of reserve protein encoding genes during development, also has a role in the control of hydrolase genes following seed germination. Northern-blot, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, and in situ hybridization analyses evidenced that the transcripts of the BPBF-encoding gene (Pbf), besides being present during endosperm development, are also expressed in aleurone cells of germinated seeds where they are induced by GA, an effect counteracted by abscisic acid. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays have shown that the BPBF protein binds specifically to the pyrimidine box motif in vitro within the different sequence contexts that naturally occur in the promoters of genes encoding a cathepsin B-like protease (Al21) and a low-isoelectric point alpha-amylase (Amy2/32b), both induced in the aleurone layers in response to GA. In transient expression experiments, BPBF repressed transcription of the Al21 promoter in GA-treated barley aleurone layers and reverted the GAMYB-mediated activation of this protease promoter.
The interaction between two phytohormones, gibberellins (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA), is an important factor regulating the developmental transition from seed dormancy to germination. In cereal aleurone tissue, GA induces and ABA suppresses the expression of alpha-amylases that are essential for the utilization of starch stored in the endosperm. In this work, the signaling pathways mediated by these hormones were investigated in the aleurone cells of barley seeds using double-stranded RNA interference (RNAi) technology. In this tissue, double-stranded RNA molecules generated from the transient expression of DNA templates caused a sequence-specific suppression of the target genes. We demonstrate that the transcription factor, GAMyb, is not only sufficient but also necessary for the GA induction of alpha-amylase. Another regulatory protein, SLN1, is shown to be a repressor of GA action, and the use of RNAi technology to inhibit the synthesis of SLN1 led to derepression of alpha-amylase even in the absence of GA. However, this effect still was suppressed by ABA. Although the ABA-induced Ser/Thr protein kinase, PKABA1, is known to suppress GA-induced alpha-amylase expression, PKABA1 RNAi did not hamper the inhibitory effect of ABA on the expression of alpha-amylase, indicating that a PKABA1-independent signaling pathway also may exist. We suggest that the generation of specific RNAi in a transient expression approach is a useful technique for elucidating the role of regulatory molecules in biological systems in which conventional mutational studies cannot be performed easily.
The PMK1 mitogen-activated protein kinase gene regulates appressorium formation and infectious hyphae growth in the rice blast fungus. To further characterize this mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway, we constructed a subtraction library enriched for genes regulated by PMK1. Two genes identified in this library, GAS1 and GAS2, encode small proteins that are homologous with gEgh16 of the powdery mildew fungus. Both were expressed specifically during appressorium formation in the wild-type strains, but neither was expressed in the pmk1 mutant. Mutants deleted in GAS1 and GAS2 had no defect in vegetative growth, conidiation, or appressoria formation, but they were reduced in appressorial penetration and lesion development. Interestingly, deletion of both GAS1 and GAS2 did not have an additive effect on appressorial penetration and lesion formation. The GAS1-green fluorescent protein and GAS2-green fluorescent protein fusion proteins were expressed only in appressoria and localized in the cytoplasm. These two genes may belong to a class of proteins specific for filamentous fungi and function as novel virulence factors in fungal pathogens.
We identified three genes homologous to water channels in the plasma membrane type subfamily from roots of barley seedlings. These genes were designated HvPIP2;1, HvPIP1;3, and HvPIP1;5 after comparison to Arabidopsis aquaporins. Competitive reverse transcription (RT)-PCR was applied in order to distinguish and to quantify their transcripts. The HvPIP2;1 transcript was the most abundant among the three in roots. Salt stress (200 mM NaCl) down-regulated HvPIP2;1 (transcript and protein), but had almost no effect on the expressions of HvPIP1;3, or HvPIP1;5. Approximately equal amounts of the transcripts of the three were detected in shoots, and salt stress enhanced the expression of HvPIP2;1 but not of HvPIP1;3, or HvPIP1;5. HvPIP2;1 protein was confirmed to be localized in the plasma membrane. Functional expression of HvPIP2;1 in Xenopus oocytes confirmed that HvPIP2;1 encoded an aquaporin that transports water. This water permeability was reduced by HgCl(2), which is a typical water channel inhibitor. This activity was not modified by some inhibitors against protein kinase and protein phosphatase.
The fungal pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei develops on the barley leaf via distinct, morphologically well-defined stages. After landing on a host plant, the conidia rapidly germinate to form a primary germ tube. Subsequently, an appressorial germ tube emerges from the conidium and differentiates an appressorium from which penetration of the host cell wall is attempted. We have used serial analysis of gene expression to provide a measurement of messenger RNA contents in ungerminated conidia, during conidial germination, and during appressorium formation. The resulting data provide a resource for the characterization of changes in transcript accumulation during early development of B. graminis.
Although cold and drought adaptation in cereals and other plants involve the induction of a large number of genes, inheritance studies in Triticeae (wheat [Triticum aestivum], barley [Hordeum vulgare], and rye [Secale cereale]) have revealed only a few major loci for frost or drought tolerance that are consistent across multiple genetic backgrounds and environments. One might imagine that these loci could encode highly conserved regulatory factors that have global effects on gene expression; therefore, genes encoding central regulators identified in other plants might be orthologs of these Triticeae stress tolerance genes. The CBF/DREB1 regulators, identified originally in Arabidopsis as key components of cold and drought regulation, merit this consideration. We constructed barley cDNA libraries, screened these libraries and a barley bacterial artificial chromosome library using rice (Oryza sativa) and barley Cbf probes, found orthologs of Arabidopsis CBF/DREB1 genes, and examined the expression and genetic map location of the barley Cbf3 gene, HvCbf3. HvCbf3 was induced by a chilling treatment. HvCbf3 is located on barley chromosome 5H between markers WG364b and saflp58 on the barley cv Dicktoo x barley cv Morex genetic linkage map. This position is some 40 to 50 cM proximal to the winter hardiness quantitative trait locus that includes the Vrn-1H gene, but may coincide with the wheat 5A Rcg1 locus, which governs the threshold temperature at which cor genes are induced. From this, it remains possible that HvCbf3 is the basis of a minor quantitative trait locus in some genetic backgrounds, though that possibility remains to be thoroughly explored.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a freely diffusible, gaseous free radical and an important signaling molecule in animals. In plants, NO influences aspects of growth and development, and can affect plant responses to stress. In some cases, the effects of NO are the result of its interaction with reactive oxygen species (ROS). These interactions can be cytotoxic or protective. Because gibberellin (GA)-induced programmed cell death (PCD) in barley (Hordeum vulgare cv Himalaya) aleurone layers is mediated by ROS, we examined the effects of NO donors on PCD and ROS-metabolizing enzymes in this system. NO donors delay PCD in layers treated with GA, but do not inhibit metabolism in general, or the GA-induced synthesis and secretion of alpha-amylase. alpha-Amylase secretion is stimulated slightly by NO donors. The effects of NO donors are specific for NO, because they can be blocked completely by the NO scavenger 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide. The antioxidant butylated hydroxy toluene also slowed PCD, and these data support our hypothesis that NO is a protective antioxidant in aleurone cells. The amounts of CAT and SOD, two enzymes that metabolize ROS, are greatly reduced in aleurone layers treated with GA. Treatment with GA in the presence of NO donors delays the loss of CAT and SOD. We speculate that NO may be an endogenous modulator of PCD in barley aleurone cells.
The tissue-specific expression pattern of the gene encoding the high-affinity sulfate transporter, HvST1, was examined in sections of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) roots by in-situ hybridisation. The results showed expression in all cell layers close to the root tip, with increased expression under conditions of sulfate stress. In mature roots, HvST1 was not expressed in sulfate-sufficient conditions, but under sulfate stress, transcripts were detected in the xylem parenchyma, pericycle and endodermis. This pattern of expression is consistent with a role in sulfate uptake and may indicate that the majority of sulfate uptake occurs close to the root tip. In low-sulfate conditions, HvST1 may have an additional role in scavenging sulfate lost during transport.
The expression of alpha-amylase genes in cereals is induced by both gibberellin (GA) and sugar starvation. All alpha-amylase genes isolated from cereals contain a TATCCA element or its variants at positions approximately 90 to 150 bp upstream of the transcription start sites. The TATCCA element was shown previously to be an important component of the GA response complex and the sugar response complex of alpha-amylase gene promoters. In the present study, three cDNA clones encoding novel MYB proteins with single DNA binding domains were isolated from a rice suspension cell cDNA library and designated OsMYBS1, OsMYBS2, and OsMYBS3. Gel mobility shift experiments with OsMYBSs showed that they bind specifically to the TATCCA element in vitro. Yeast one-hybrid experiments demonstrated that OsMYBS1 and OsMYBS2 bind to the TATCCA element and transactivate a promoter containing the TATCCA element in vivo. Transient expression assays with barley half-seeds showed that OsMYBS1 and OsMYBS2 transactivate a promoter containing the TATCCA element when sugar is provided, whereas OsMYBS3 represses transcription of the same promoter under sugar starvation. Transient expression assays also showed that these three OsMYBSs cooperate with a GA-regulated transcription factor, HvMYBGa, in the transactivation of a low-pI barley alpha-amylase gene promoter in the absence of GA. Two-hybrid experiments with barley half-seeds showed that OsMYBS1 is able to form a homodimer. The present study demonstrates that differential DNA binding affinity, promoter transactivation ability, dimerization, and interactions with other protein factors determine the biological function of OsMYBSs. This study also suggests that common transcription factors are involved in the sugar and hormonal regulation of alpha-amylase gene expression in cereals.
Genes that confer defense against pathogens often are clustered in the genome and evolve via diverse mechanisms. To evaluate the organization and content of a major defense gene complex in cereals, we determined the complete sequence of a 261-kb BAC contig from barley cv Morex that spans the Mla (powdery mildew) resistance locus. Among the 32 predicted genes on this contig, 15 are associated with plant defense responses; 6 of these are associated with defense responses to powdery mildew disease but function in different signaling pathways. The Mla region is organized as three gene-rich islands separated by two nested complexes of transposable elements and a 45-kb gene-poor region. A heterochromatic-like region is positioned directly proximal to Mla and is composed of a gene-poor core with 17 families of diverse tandem repeats that overlap a hypermethylated, but transcriptionally active, gene-dense island. Paleontology analysis of long terminal repeat retrotransposons indicates that the present Mla region evolved over a period of >7 million years through a variety of duplication, inversion, and transposon-insertion events. Sequence-based recombination estimates indicate that R genes positioned adjacent to nested long terminal repeat retrotransposons, such as Mla, do not favor recombination as a means of diversification. We present a model for the evolution of the Mla region that encompasses several emerging features of large cereal genomes.
A gene encoding the barley vacuolar ATPase subunit B (BSVAP) was differentially expressed between two near isogenic barley cultivars, Golden Promise and Maythorpe. This gene (BSVAP) was isolated by the mRNA differential display technique (DDRT-PCR). BSVAP was salt inducible under long-term salinity stress in the salt sensitive cultivar Maythorpe but less so in the relatively salt tolerant Golden Promise and was more highly expressed under control conditions in Maythorpe. The physiological consequences of altered vacuolar ATPase expression are discussed in relation to the salt sensitivity of Maythorpe.
A HvCBF1 cDNA encoding an AP2 domain-containing protein was isolated from barley leaves. Expression of HvCBF1 was induced in barley leaves by exposure to a low temperature (2 degrees C), but not by drought or abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. Functional analysis showed that HvCBF1 was a transcriptional activator, capable of activating expression of reporter genes driven by a cold- and drought-responsive HVA1s promoter in barley leaves. Transactivation analysis of HvCBF1 on a number of synthetic oligonucleotides containing potential C-repeat (CRT)/dehydration-responsive element (DRE) derived from cold-responsive barley genes revealed that HvCBF1 interacted much more efficiently with a GCCGAC motif than a previously identified barley low-temperature-responsive element (LTRE), CCGAAA. A detailed base-substitution mutagenesis study revealed that only the CGAC sequence of the GCCGAC motif was highly conserved for interacting with HvCBF1. The promoter activity of the mutant motifs, ACCGAC and GTCGAC, was 36% and 75% of that of the GCCGAC motif, respectively. The base composition surrounding the GCCGAC motif also had a significant effect on the efficiency of the motif. These data suggest that barley HvCBF1 protein interacts with the (G/a)(C/t)CGAC motif and is involved in regulation of cold-responsive genes in barley via an ABA-independent signal transduction pathway.
In continuation of our investigation on structure and function relationship of beta-glucosidases from mesophilic and thermophilic bacteria, we constructed a chimeric gene by shuffling 17% length in C terminal region of beta-glucosidase of Agrobacterium tumefaciens with the corresponding homologous region of Cellvibrio gilvus beta-glucosidase. The chimeric gene was overexpressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) using pET vector. However, nearly all of the beta-glucosidase produced was trapped into inclusion bodies in catalytically non-functional state. Attempts were made to solubilize the overexpressed protein by co-expression with molecular chaperone, GroEL/ES, in vivo. The molecular chaperone assisted protein folding that had earlier yielded encouraging results, did not improve the solubilization in the present case with a chimeric beta-glucosidase. Further, we explored protein renaturation under in vitro conditions using various dialysis strategies. Dialysis, rapid dilution and a newly devised method of folding immobilized proteins yielded active enzyme. The usefulness of the in vitro folding methods to obtain functional enzymes from overproduced but non-functional proteins has been discussed.
Knowledge of gene function is critical to the development of new plant traits for improved agricultural and industrial applications. Viral expression vectors offer a rapid and proven method to provide epigenetic expression of foreign sequences throughout infected plants. Expression of these sequences from viral vectors can lead to gain- or loss-of-function phenotypes, allowing gene function to be determined by phenotypic or biochemical effects in the infected plant. Tobacco mosaic virus and barley stripe mosaic virus expression vectors have been developed to express foreign gene sequences in dicotyledonous and monocotyledonous hosts, respectively. Large-scale application of both viral vector systems for gene function discovery in Nicotiana and barley hosts resulted in high infection rates and produced distinctive visual phenotypes in approximately 5% of transfected plants. Novel genes expressing potential herbicide target proteins in addition to genes promoting stem elongation, leaf development and apical dominance were identified in the large-scale screening. This report illustrates the adaptability of viral vectors for gene function discovery in higher plants.
Plants respond to environmental stress with a number of physiological and developmental changes. Water deficit is one of the major factors limiting plant growth and development and crop productivity. One response of plants to water deficit is accumulation of abscisic acid (ABA). An increase of ABA is responsible for the induction of many genes, presumably some of which contribute to drought tolerance. Analysis of gene expression in barley seedling shoots by differential display reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (DDRT-PCR) led to the isolation of several drought-, cold- and ABA-induced partial cDNA fragments. Here we extensively characterize one of these cDNAs, designated DD6. First, a larger cDNA was extended from DD6 by 5'-RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA ends). Subsequently, the corresponding gene was isolated by screening a barley BAC library, and the sequences of the transcribed and flanking regions were determined. The deduced amino acid sequence has similarity to an Arabidopsis hypothetical protein and to a human and mouse DNA-binding protein. The corresponding gene, named Srg6 (stress-responsive gene), was mapped in a barley doubled haploid mapping population to chromosome 7H between markers ABC455 and salfp76, within a region that previously has been linked to osmotic adaptation in barley and other grass genomes.
Cold acclimation and freezing tolerance are the result of complex interaction between low temperature, light, and photosystem II (PSII) excitation pressure. Previous results have shown that expression of the Wcs19 gene is correlated with PSII excitation pressure measured in vivo as the relative reduction state of PSII. Using cDNA library screening and data mining, we have identified three different groups of proteins, late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) 3-L1, LEA3-L2, and LEA3-L3, sharing identities with WCS19. These groups represent a new class of proteins in cereals related to group 3 LEA proteins. They share important characteristics such as a sorting signal that is predicted to target them to either the chloroplast or mitochondria and a C-terminal sequence that may be involved in oligomerization. The results of subcellular fractionation, immunolocalization by electron microscopy and the analyses of target sequences within the Wcs19 gene are consistent with the localization of WCS19 within the chloroplast stroma of wheat (Triticum aestivum) and rye (Secale cereale). Western analysis showed that the accumulation of chloroplastic LEA3-L2 proteins is correlated with the capacity of different wheat and rye cultivars to develop freezing tolerance. Arabidopsis was transformed with the Wcs19 gene and the transgenic plants showed a significant increase in their freezing tolerance. This increase was only evident in cold-acclimated plants. The putative function of this protein in the enhancement of freezing tolerance is discussed.
Lack of the barley (Hordeum vulgare) seven-transmembrane domain MLO protein confers resistance against the fungal pathogen Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh). To broaden the basis for MLO structure/function studies, we sequenced additional mlo resistance alleles, two of which confer only partial resistance. Wild-type MLO dampens the cell wall-restricted hydrogen peroxide burst at points of attempted fungal penetration of the epidermal cell wall, and in subtending mesophyll cells, it suppresses a second oxidative burst and cell death. Although the Bgh-induced cell death in mlo plants is spatially and temporally separated from resistance, we show that the two processes are linked. Uninoculated mutant mlo plants exhibit spontaneous mesophyll cell death that appears to be part of accelerated leaf senescence. Mlo transcript abundance increases in response to Bgh, rice (Oryza sativa) blast, wounding, paraquat treatment, a wheat powdery mildew-derived carbohydrate elicitor, and during leaf senescence. This suggests a broad involvement of Mlo in cell death protection and in responses to biotic and abiotic stresses.
The differential display method was used to identify a novel barley gene, Lem1, expressed primarily in the outer organs (lemma and palea) that enclose developing florets and seeds. The promoter was isolated from a BAC genomic clone and used in a translational fusion with a green fluorescent protein gene (Gfp) to produce a transient expression vector. After particle bombardment, Gfp was expressed only in lemmas, paleas and awns of developing spikelets. Lem1 did not promote Gfp expression in vegetative leaves or in mature spikes, although expression of co-bombarded uidA (GUS) occurred under the regulation of a ubiquitin promoter. This reproduced the developmentally regulated pattern of mRNA accumulation. Deletion studies showed that the promoter activity is confined to a cis element within 80 bp of the transcription start site. Upstream from this, the promoter contains putative auxin-, ethylene- and gibberellin-responsive elements or homologues. Lem1 was found to be a single intronless gene encoding an acidic 102 amino acid protein, possibly associated with membranes. In a two-rowed barley, Lem1 mRNA was absent in the lateral spikelets, which fail to develop, and present only in the developing median spikelets. This suggests that Lem1 may play a role in organ development.
We report here the construction, characterization, and application of a plasmid-based genetic system that reports the expression of a target promoter by effecting an irreversible, heritable change in a bacterial cell. This system confers strong repression of the reporter gene gfp in the absence of target promoter expression and utilizes the site-specific recombination machinery of bacteriophage P22 to trigger high-level reporter gene expression in the original cell and its progeny after target gene induction. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this genetic system by tailoring it to indicate the availability of arabinose to the biological control agent Enterobacter cloacae JL1157 in culture and in the barley rhizosphere. The presence of bioavailable arabinose triggered the production of P22 excisionase and integrase from the reporter plasmid pAraLHB in JL1157, and this led to excision of the cI repressor gene, which is flanked by att sites, and the subsequent irreversible expression of gfp in the original cell and in its progeny. In culture, nearly 100% of an E. cloacae JL1157(pAraLHB) population expressed gfp after exposure to 6.5 to 65 microM arabinose for 3 h. We used this biosensor to demonstrate that arabinose was released from the seeds of several legumes and grass species during germination and from roots of barley seedlings grown hydroponically or in soil. When introduced into microcosms containing barley, the biosensor permitted the localization of arabinose along the roots. Arabinose was present near the root-seed junction and on the seminal roots but was not detected at the root tips. This recombination-based reporter system should be useful for monitoring bacterial exposure to transient or low levels of specific molecules directly in the environment.
HVA22 is an ABA- and stress-inducible gene first isolated from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Homologues of HVA22 have been found in plants, animals, fungi and protozoa, but not in prokaryotes, suggesting that HVA22 plays a unique role in eukaryotes. Five HVA22 homologues, designated AtHVA22a, b, c, d and e, have been identified in Arabidopsis. These five AtHVA22 homologues can be separated into two subfamilies, with AtHVA22a, b and c grouped in one subfamily and AtHVA22d and e in the other. Phylogenetic analyses show that AtHVA22d and e are closer to barley HVA22 than to AtHVA22a, b and c, suggesting that the two subfamilies had diverged before the divergence of monocots and dicots. The distribution and size of exons of AtHVA22 homologues and barley HVA22 are similar, suggesting that these genes are descendents of a common ancestor. AtHVA22 homologues are differentially regulated by ABA, cold, dehydration and salt stresses. These four treatments enhance AtHVA22a, d and e expression, but have little or even suppressive effect on AtHVA22c expression. ABA and salt stress induce AtHVA22b expression, but cold stress suppresses ABA induction of this gene. Expression of AtHVA22d is the most tightly regulated by these four treatments among the five homologues. In general, AtHVA22 homologues are expressed at a higher level in flower buds and inflorescence stems than in rosette and cauline leaves. The expression level of these homologues in immature siliques is the lowest among all tissues analyzed. It is suggested that some of these AtHVA22 family members may play a role in stress tolerance, and others are involved in plant reproductive development.
Plants and numerous fungi including Magnaporthe grisea protect mitochondria from interference by respiration inhibitors by expressing alternative oxidase, the enzymatic core of alternative respiration. The alternative oxidase gene AOXMg of M. grisea was disrupted. Several lines of evidence suggested that the disruption of AOXMg was sufficient to completely curb the expression of alternative respiration. In the infection of barley leaves, several AOXMg-minus and, thus, alternative respiration-deficient mutants of M. grisea retained their pathogenicity without significant impairment of virulence. However, differences between the wild-type strain and an AOXMg-minus mutant were apparent under oxidative stress conditions generated by the treatment of infected barley leaves with the commercial respiration inhibitor azoxystrobin. Symptom development was effectively suppressed on leaves infected with the alternative respiration-deficient mutant, while lesions on leaves infected with the wild-type strain continued to develop at much higher inhibitor doses. However, respective lesions rarely developed to the stage of full maturity. The results did not conform to a previous model implying that expression of alternative respiration is silenced during pathogenesis by the presence of constitutive plant antioxidants. Rather, alternative respiration provided protection from azoxystrobin during both saprophytic and infectious stages of the pathogen. The nature of similar oxidative stress conditions in the ecology of M. grisea remains an open question.
We have identified the Arabidopsis ortholog of barley RAR1 as a component of resistance specified by multiple nucleotide binding/Leu-rich repeat resistance (R) genes recognizing different bacterial and oomycete pathogen isolates. Characterization of partially and fully defective rar1 mutations revealed that wild-type RAR1 acts as a rate-limiting regulator of early R gene-triggered defenses, determining the extent of pathogen containment, hypersensitive plant cell death, and an oxidative burst at primary infection sites. We conclude that RAR1 defense signaling function is conserved between plant species that are separated evolutionarily by 150 million years. RAR1 encodes a protein with two zinc binding (CHORD) domains that are highly conserved across eukaryotic phyla, and the single nematode CHORD-containing homolog, Chp, was found previously to be essential for embryo viability. An absence of obvious developmental defects in null Arabidopsis rar1 mutants favors the notion that, in contrast, RAR1 does not play a fundamental role in plant development.
The barley gene (Jip23) encoding a 23,000-Da protein of unknown function was isolated and shown to be induced by jasmonate methyl ester (MeJA) in leaves. 5'upstream Jip23 sequence was isolated and fused to the beta-glucuronidase gene (GUS), and this reporter was introduced by particle bombardment into barley leaves. With 1.8 kb of this Jip23 sequence, GUS expression was enhanced about threefold by jasmonate treatment. This indicates that the Jip23 regulation by jasmonate occurs at the level of transcription.
Abscisic acid (ABA) induces the expression of a gene encoding a protein kinase, PKABA1, in wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.). Transient expression of the cDNA encoding this kinase suppresses the gibberellin (GA)-induced expression of alpha-amylase genes in barley ( Hordeum vulgare L.) aleurone layers. We have cloned the cDNA and genomic sequences for the barley PKABA1 (HvPKABA1) to further study its role in regulating the GA-inducible gene expression in barley seeds. The amino acid sequence deduced from the cDNA shows 97% identity with that of wheat PKABA1. RNA blot analysis indicated that ABA induced, but GA suppressed, the expression of HvPKABA1 in barley seeds. Transient expression of HvPKABA1 also suppressed the GA-inducible alpha-amylase gene expression. These results suggest that HvPKABA1 is probably involved in the signal transduction pathway from ABA to suppress the GA-inducible gene expression. Southern blot analysis showed that HvPKABA1 is likely a single-copy gene in barley. The sequence of the genomic clone reveals that HvPKABA1 consists of eight introns, the first one being more than 6 kb long. The mapped transcription start site of this gene suggests that it may have a TATA-less promoter.
A barley cDNA macroarray comprising 1,440 unique genes was used to analyze the spatial and temporal patterns of gene expression in embryo, scutellum and endosperm tissue during different stages of germination. Among the set of expressed genes, 69 displayed the highest mRNA level in endosperm tissue, 58 were up-regulated in both embryo and scutellum, 11 were specifically expressed in the embryo and 16 in scutellum tissue. Based on Blast X analyses, 70% of the differentially expressed genes could be assigned a putative function. One set of genes, expressed in both embryo and scutellum tissue, included functions in cell division, protein translation, nucleotide metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism and some transporters. The other set of genes expressed in endosperm encodes several metabolic pathways including carbohydrate and amino acid metabolism as well as protease inhibitors and storage proteins. As shown for a storage protein and a trypsin inhibitor, the endosperm of the germinating barley grain contains a considerable amount of residual mRNA which was produced during seed development and which is degraded during early stages of germination. Based on similar expression patterns in the endosperm tissue, we identified 29 genes which may undergo the same degradation process.
We have previously identified GAMYB, a gibberellin (GA)-regulated transcriptional activator of alpha-amylase gene expression, in aleurone cells of barley (Hordeum vulgare). To examine the regulation of GAMYB expression, we describe the use of nuclear run-on experiments to show that GA causes a 2-fold increase in the rate of GAMYB transcription and that the effect of GA can be blocked by abscisic acid (ABA). To identify GA-signaling components that regulate GAMYB expression, we examined the role of SLN1, a negative regulator of GA signaling in barley. SLN1, which is the product of the Sln1 (Slender1) locus, is necessary for repression of GAMYB in barley aleurone cells. The activity of SLN1 in aleurone cells is regulated posttranslationally. SLN1 protein levels decline rapidly in response to GA before any increase in GAMYB levels. Green fluorescent protein-SLN1 fusion protein was targeted to the nucleus of aleurone protoplasts and disappeared in response to GA. Evidence from a dominant dwarf mutant at Sln1, and from the gse1 mutant (that affects GA "sensitivity"), indicates that GA acts by regulating SLN1 degradation and not translation. Mutation of the DELLA region of SLN1 results in increased protein stability in GA-treated layers, indicating that the DELLA region plays an important role in GA-induced degradation of SLN1. Unlike GA, ABA had no effect on SLN1 stability, confirming that ABA acts downstream of SLN1 to block GA signaling.
A dominant dwarf mutant of barley (Hordeum vulgare) that resembles dominant gibberellin (GA) "-insensitive" or "-nonresponsive" mutants in other species is described. alpha-Amylase production by endosperm half-grains of the mutant required GA3 at concentrations about 100 times that of the WT. The mutant showed only a slight growth response to GA3, even at very high concentrations. However, when additionally dwarfed, growth rate responded to GA3 over the normal concentration range, although only back to the original (dwarf) elongation rate. Genetic studies indicated that the dominant dwarf locus was either closely linked or identical to the Sln1 (Slender1) locus. A barley sequence related to Arabidopsis GAI/RGA was isolated, and shown to represent the Sln1 locus by the analysis of sln1 mutants. The dominant dwarf mutant was also altered in this sequence, indicating that it too is an allele at Sln1. Thus, mutations at Sln1 generate plants of radically different phenotypes; either dwarfs that are largely dominant and GA "-insensitive/-nonresponsive," or the recessive slender types in which GA responses appear to be constitutive. Immunoblotting studies showed that in growing leaves, SLN1 protein localized almost exclusively to the leaf elongation zone. In mutants at the Sln1 locus, there were differences in both the abundance and distribution of SLN1 protein, and large changes in the amounts of bioactive GAs, and of their metabolic precursors and catabolites. These results suggest that there are dynamic interactions between SLN1 protein and GA content in determining leaf elongation rate.
Expression of the fis1 gene from flax (Linum usitatissimum) is induced by a compatible rust (Melampsora lini) infection. Infection of transgenic plants containing a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene under the control of the fis1 promoter showed that induction is highly localized to those leaf mesophyll cells within and immediately surrounding rust infection sites. The level of induction reflects the extent of fungal growth. In a strong resistance reaction, such as the hypersensitive fleck mediated by the L6 resistance gene, there is very little fungal growth and a microscopic level of GUS expression. Partially resistant flax leaves show levels of GUS expression that were intermediate to the level observed in the fully susceptible infection. Sequence and deletion analysis using both transient Agrobacterium tumefaciens expression and stable transformation assays have shown that the rust-inducible fis1 promoter is contained within a 580-bp fragment. Homologs of fis1 were identified in expressed sequence tag databases of a range of plant species including dicots, monocots, and a gymnosperm. Homologous genes isolated from maize (Zea mays; mis1), barley (Hordeum vulgare; bis1), wheat (Triticum aestivum; wis1), and Arabidopsis encode proteins that are highly similar (76%-82%) to the FIS1 protein. The Arabidopsis homologue has been reported to encode a delta1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate dehydrogenase that is involved in the catabolism of proline to glutamate. RNA-blot analysis showed that mis1 in maize and the bis1 homolog in barley are both up-regulated by a compatible infection with the corresponding species-specific rust. The rust-induced genes homologous to fis1 are present in many plants. The promoters of these genes have potential roles for the engineering of synthetic rust resistance genes by targeting transgene expression to the sites of rust infection.
The expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) and its inheritance were studied in transgenic barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) plants transformed with a synthetic green fluorescent protein gene [sgfp(S65T)] driven by either a rice actin promoter or a barley endosperm-specific d-hordein promoter. The gene encoding phosphinothricin acetyltransferase (bar), driven by the maize ubiquitin promoter and intron, was used as a selectable marker to identify transgenic tissues. Strong GFP expression driven by the rice actin promoter was observed in callus cells and in a variety of tissues of T0 plants transformed with the sgfp(S65T)-containing construct. GFP expression, driven by the rice actin promoter, was observed in 14 out of 17 independent regenerable transgenic callus lines; however, expression was gradually lost in T0 and later generation progeny of diploid lines. Stable GFP expression was observed in T2 progeny from only 6 out of the 14 (43%) independent GFP-expressing callus lines. Four of the 8 lines not expressing GFP in T2 progeny, lost GFP expression during T0 plant regeneration from calli; one lost GFP expression in the transition from the T0 to T1 generations and three lines were sterile. Similarly, expression of bar driven by the maize ubiquitin promoter was lost in T1 progeny; only 21 out of 26 (81%) independent lines were Basta-resistant. In contrast to actin-driven expression, GFP expression driven by the d-hordein promoter exhibited endosperm-specificity. All seven lines transformed with d-hordein-driven GFP (100%) expressed GFP in the T1 and T2 generations, regardless of ploidy levels, and expression segregated in a Mendelian fashion. We conclude that the sgfp(S65T) gene was successfully transformed into barley and that GFP expression driven by the d-hordein promoter was more stable in its inheritance pattern in T1 and T2 progeny than that driven by the rice actin promoter or the bar gene driven by the maize ubiquitin promoter.
Nuclear matrix attachment regions (MARs) are defined as genomic DNA sequences, located at the physical boundaries of chromatin loops. They are suggested to play a role in the cis unfolding and folding of the chromatin fibre associated with the regulation of gene transcription. Inclusion of MARs in transgene cassettes enhances their expression and reduces position-effect variations in the transgenic host. The present study is the first to investigate the influence of MAR sequences on transformation frequencies and transgene expression in barley, which is highly relevant to the future improvement of this crop by biotechnology. Two plant MAR sequences were tested both for their ability to bind to the nuclear matrix of barley leaf nuclei and to regulate the expression of a reporter gene in transgenic barley. Competitive in vitro MAR binding assays with the 520 bp P1-MAR from soybean and the 516 bp TBS-MAR from petunia revealed that only the P1-MAR had specific binding affinity for barley nuclear matrices. The barley transformation frequency with the uidA reporter gene was increased 2-fold when the gene was flanked with either the P1-MAR or TBS-MAR, while the gene copy number was strongly reduced. The presence of P1-MAR sequences increased the mean activity and reduced the variance in expression of a co-integrated reporter gene in barley consistent with the proposed model of MAR activity.
Plant SNF1-related protein kinase (SnRK1) phosphorylates 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-Coenzyme A, nitrate reductase and sucrose phosphate synthase in vitro, and is required for expression of sucrose synthase in potato tubers and excised leaves. In this study, a barley (Hordeum vulgare) endosperm cDNA, SnIP1, was isolated by two-hybrid screening with barley SnRK1b, a seed-specific form of SnRK1. The protein encoded by the SnIP1 cDNA was found to interact with barley SnRK1b protein in vitro. Southern analysis suggested that barley contains a single SnIP1 gene or small gene family. SnIP1 transcripts were detected in RNA isolated from leaf, root and mid-maturation seed. Sequence similarity searches against protein, nucleotide and expressed sequence tag databases identified hitherto uncharacterized sequences related to SnIP1 from maize (Zea mays, accession number AI691404), arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana. AC079673 and AB016886) and poplar (Populus balsamifera, AI166543). No homologous sequences were identified from outside the plant kingdom, but weak sequence similarity was found between the SnIP1 peptide and yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) SNF4 and its mammalian homologue AMPKy. Nevertheless, SnIP1 failed to complement a yeast snf4 mutant. SnIP1 was found to have little overall sequence similarity with the PV42 family of SNF4-like plant proteins, but proteins of both the SnIP1 and PV42 families contain a conserved hydrophobic sequence we named the SnIP motif.
RNA silencing of endogenous plant genes can be achieved by virus-mediated, transient expression of homologous gene fragments. This powerful, reverse genetic approach, known as virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS), has been demonstrated only in dicot plant species, where it has become an important tool for functional genomics. Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) is a tripartite, positive-sense RNA virus that infects many agriculturally important monocot species including barley, oats, wheat and maize. To demonstrate VIGS in a monocot host, we modified BSMV to express untranslatable foreign inserts downstream of the gammab gene, in either sense or antisense orientations. Phytoene desaturase (PDS) is required for synthesizing carotenoids, compounds that protect chlorophyll from photo-bleaching. A partial PDS cDNA amplified from barley was 90, 88 and 74% identical to PDS cDNAs from rice, maize and Nicotiana benthamiana, respectively. Barley infected with BSMV expressing barley, rice or maize PDS fragments became photo-bleached and accumulated phytoene (the substrate for PDS) in a manner similar to plants treated with the chemical inhibitor of PDS, norflurazon. In contrast, barley infected with wild-type BSMV, or BSMV expressing either N. benthamiana PDS or antisense green fluorescent protein (GFP), did not photo-bleach or accumulate phytoene. Thus BSMV silencing of the endogenous PDS was homology-dependent. Deletion of the coat protein enhanced the ability of BSMV to silence PDS. This is the first demonstration of VIGS in a monocot, and suggests that BSMV can be used for functional genomics and studies of RNA-silencing mechanisms in monocot plant species.
Responses to drought and salinity in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Tokak) were monitored by microarray hybridization of 1463 DNA elements derived from cDNA libraries of 6 and 10 h drought-stressed plants. Functional identities indicated that many cDNAs in these libraries were associated with drought stress. About 38% of the transcripts were novel and functionally unknown. Hybridization experiments were analyzed for drought- and salinity-regulated sequences, with significant changes defined as a deviation from the control exceeding 2.5-fold. Responses of transcripts showed stress-dependent expression patterns and time courses. Nearly 15% of all transcripts were either up- or down-regulated under drought stress, while NaCl led to a change in 5% of the transcripts (24 h, 150 mM NaCl). Transcripts that showed significant up-regulation under drought stress are exemplified by jasmonate-responsive, metallothionein-like, late-embryogenesis-abundant (LEA) and ABA-responsive proteins. Most drastic down-regulation in a category was observed for photosynthesis-related functions. Up-regulation under both drought and salt stress was restricted to ESTs for metallothionein-like and LEA proteins, while increases in ubiquitin-related transcripts characterized salt stress. A number of functionally unknown transcripts from cDNA libraries of drought-stressed plants showed up-regulation by drought but down-regulation by salt stress, documenting how precisely transcript profiles report different growth conditions and environments.
14-3-3 proteins form a family of highly conserved proteins with central roles in many eukaryotic signalling networks. In plants, they bind to and activate the plasma membrane H+-ATPase, creating a binding site for the phytotoxin fusicoccin. Barley 14-3-3 transcripts accumulate in the epidermis upon inoculation with the powdery mildew fungus. We have isolated a cDNA encoding a plasma membrane H+-ATPase (HvHAI), which is also induced by powdery mildew attack. The C-terminal domain of this H+-ATPase interacts with 14-3-3 proteins in the yeast two-hybrid system. Inoculation with the powdery mildew fungus, or treatment with fusicoccin, results in an increase in fusicoccin binding ability of barley leaf membranes. Overlay assays show a fungus-induced increase in binding of digoxygenin-labelled 14-3-3 protein to several proteins including a 100 kDa membrane protein, probably the plasma membrane H+-ATPase. These effects are seen specifically in the inoculated epidermis and not in the whole leaf. We propose that 14-3-3 proteins are involved in an epidermis-specific response to the powdery mildew fungus, possibly via an activation of the plasma membrane H+-ATPase.
To acquire Fe from soil, graminaceous plants secrete mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs) from their roots. The secretion of MAs increases in response to Fe deficiency, and shows a distinct diurnal rhythm. We used a microarray that included 8987 cDNAs of rice EST clones to examine gene expression profiles in barley roots during Fe-deficiency stress. Approximately 200 clones were identified as Fe-deficiency-inducible genes, of which seven had been identified previously. In order to meet the increased demand for methionine to produce MAs, Fe-deficiency enhances the expression of genes that participate in methionine synthesis, as well as recycling methionine through the Yang cycle. Of these 200 genes, approximately 50 exhibited different transcription levels in Fe-deficient roots at noon and at night. Northern blot analysis of time course experiments confirmed that five of these genes exhibited a diurnal change in their level of expression. The diurnal changes in the expression of these genes suggest that polar vesicle transport is involved in the diurnal secretion of MAs.
The sequences of the chitinase gene (Chi-26) and the internal transcribed spacer of 18S - 5.8S - 26S rDNA (ITS1) were determined to analyze the phylogenetic relationships among species representing the four basic genomes of the genus Hordeum. Grouping analysis based on data for Chi-26 gene sequences placed Hordeum secalinum (H genome) near the Hordeum murinum complex (Xu genome), and Hordeum bulbosum distant from the other species that carried the I genome. ITS sequence data showed the expected grouping based on the genome classification of the species studied. Different sequences of ITS were detected even in the genomes of the diploid species. The results are interpreted in terms of defective or unfinished concerted evolution processes in each taxon.
Small GTP-binding proteins such as those from the RAC family are cytosolic signal transduction proteins that often are involved in processing of extracellular stimuli. Plant RAC proteins are implicated in regulation of plant cell architecture, secondary wall formation, meristem signaling, and defense against pathogens. We isolated a RacB homolog from barley (Hordeum vulgare) to study its role in resistance to the barley powdery mildew fungus (Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei). RacB was constitutively expressed in the barley epidermis and its expression level was not strongly influenced by inoculation with B. graminis. However, after biolistic bombardment of barley leaf segments with RacB-double-stranded RNA, sequence-specific RNA interference with RacB function inhibited fungal haustorium establishment in a cell-autonomous and genotype-specific manner. Mutants compromised in function of the Mlo wild-type gene and the Ror1 gene (genotype mlo5 ror1) that are moderately susceptible to B. graminis showed no alteration in powdery mildew resistance upon RacB-specific RNA interference. Thus, the phenotype, induced by RacB-specific RNA interference, was apparently dependent on the same processes as mlo5-mediated broad resistance, which is suppressed by ror1. We conclude that an RAC small GTP-binding protein is required for successful fungal haustorium establishment and that this function may be linked to MLO-associated functions.
Anatomical modifications and developmental patterns of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) plants transgenic for the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) homeo box genes bkn-1 or bkn-3 were analysed and the morphogenetic processes interpreted. No appreciable difference between bkn-1 and bkn-3 transgenic tobacco was observed in the examined transgenic plants. They were dwarfed and developed epiphyllous appendages on all leaves except the cotyledons. Two major categories of epiphyllous structure were recognised: (i) vegetative shoots on juvenile heart-shaped leaves and (ii) inflorescences or flowers on adult lanceolate leaves. Both types of epiphyllous structure originated in the subepidermal layers, either directly from individual meristems or from an expanded meristematic "cushion". Structural analysis confirmed that the occurrence of epiphylls in the tobacco transformants represented a switch from determinate to indeterminate leaf growth and reproduced the phenotype of the barley Hooded mutant, which had earlier been shown to be associated with the bkn-3 gene [K.J. Muller et al. (1995) Nature 374:727-730].
We isolated stable albino plants of barley and maize by inhibiting plastid protein synthesis with streptomycin and propagating bleached seedlings in the absence of antibiotics in vitro. Albino plants are deficient in plastid translation products and plastid ribosomal RNAs, and are stable phenocopies of the barley albostrians and maize iojap mutants, which contain ribosome-free plastids. Once plastid ribosomes are lost they cannot be re-synthesized because about one-third of plastid ribosomal proteins are themselves plastid encoded. The group II/subgroup IIA intron in plastid rpl2 transcripts was not processed in albinos, providing strong evidence for the absence of plastid translation. Photosynthesis-related plastid mRNAs and plastid tRNAs were down-regulated in albino leaves. A differential influence of plastid ribosome deficiency on mRNA levels allowed us to divide genes transcribed by nucleus-encoded plastid RNA polymerase into two groups. Northern analysis revealed increases in the levels of clpP, rpl2, rpl23, rps15 and rpoB mRNAs in total RNA from albino leaves relative to those in green leaves. In contrast, albinism did not increase the band intensities of rps2 and rps4 messages. Plastid ribosome-associated factor(s) or plastid-encoded product(s) play a role in the initiation, termination, processing or stability of transcripts containing trnG(UCC) and rps4. Excision and 100-fold amplification of a 5.2-kb region of plastid DNA encompassing the trnG(UCC) and trnE(UUC) genes was observed in one of four albino barley plants. Gene amplification was correlated with the accumulation of abundant novel transcripts derived from regions flanking the trnG(UCC) gene.
In plants, defence against specific isolates of a pathogen can be triggered by the presence of a corresponding race-specific resistance gene, whereas resistance of a more broad-spectrum nature can result from recessive, presumably loss-of-regulatory-function, mutations. An example of the latter are mlo mutations in barley, which have been successful in agriculture for the control of powdery mildew fungus (Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei; Bgh). MLO protein resides in the plasma membrane, has seven transmembrane domains, and is the prototype of a sequence-diversified family unique to plants, reminiscent of the seven-transmembrane receptors in fungi and animals. In animals, these are known as G-protein-coupled receptors and exist in three main families, lacking sequence similarity, that are thought to be an example of molecular convergence. MLO seems to function independently of heterotrimeric G proteins. We have identified a domain in MLO that mediates a Ca2+-dependent interaction with calmodulin in vitro. Loss of calmodulin binding halves the ability of MLO to negatively regulate defence against powdery mildew in vivo. We propose a sensor role for MLO in the modulation of defence reactions.
DNA mismatch repair is an essential system for maintaining genetic stability in bacteria and higher eukaryotes. Based on the conserved regions of the bacterial MutS gene and its homologues in yeast and human, a wheat cDNA homologue of MSH6, designated TaMSH7, was isolated by RT-PCR. The deduced amino acid sequence of TaMSH7 shows conserved domains characteristic of other MSH6 genes, with highest similarity to maize MSH7 and Arabidopsis MSH7. TaMSH7 is expressed in meristem tissue associated with a high level of mitotic and meiotic activity, with maximum expression in the reproductive organs of young flower spikes. TaMSH7 is located on the short arms of chromosomes 3A, 3B, and 3D and has been mapped within barley chromosome 3HS. The copy on 3DS is located within the region deleted in the wheat mutant ph2a, which shows altered recombination frequency in the interspecific hybrids. The relationship between the ph2a mutant and TaMSH7 gene function is discussed.
Transient influx of Ca(2+) constitutes an early event in the signaling cascades that trigger plant defense responses. However, the downstream components of defense-associated Ca(2+) signaling are largely unknown. Because Ca(2+) signals are mediated by Ca(2+)-binding proteins, including calmodulin (CaM), identification and characterization of CaM-binding proteins elicited by pathogens should provide insights into the mechanism by which Ca(2+) regulates defense responses. In this study, we isolated a gene encoding rice Mlo (Oryza sativa Mlo; OsMlo) using a protein-protein interaction-based screening of a cDNA expression library constructed from pathogen-elicited rice suspension cells. OsMlo has a molecular mass of 62 kDa and shares 65% sequence identity and scaffold topology with barley Mlo, a heptahelical transmembrane protein known to function as a negative regulator of broad spectrum disease resistance and leaf cell death. By using gel overlay assays, we showed that OsMlo produced in Escherichia coli binds to soybean CaM isoform-1 (SCaM-1) in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. We located a 20-amino acid CaM-binding domain (CaMBD) in the OsMlo C-terminal cytoplasmic tail that is necessary and sufficient for Ca(2+)-dependent CaM complex formation. Specific binding of the conserved CaMBD to CaM was corroborated by site-directed mutagenesis, a gel mobility shift assay, and a competition assay with a Ca(2+)/CaM-dependent enzyme. Expression of OsMlo was strongly induced by a fungal pathogen and by plant defense signaling molecules. We propose that binding of Ca(2+)-loaded CaM to the C-terminal tail may be a common feature of Mlo proteins.
A new Fe-deficiency-induced cDNA, IDI7, was isolated from the roots of Fe-deficient barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Ehimehadaka no. 1). The transcript levels of IDI7 in roots strongly correlated with iron nutritional status, and induction by Fe-deficiency was restricted to roots. Excess treatment with heavy metal ions, such as copper, manganese, and zinc, did not cause obvious IDI7 induction in either leaves or roots. IDI7 encodes a 644 amino acid protein, and has features typical of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that IDI7 is closely related to the half-type ABC protein subfamily, which includes mammalian transporters associated with antigen processing (TAPs). A transiently expressed fusion protein of IDI7 to green fluorescent protein (GFP) was localized to tonoplasts in suspension-cultured tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) cells. IDI7 and its orthologues are thought to comprise a new class of ABC transporters, located in the tonoplasts of higher plants. A possible Fe-deficiency adaptation role for IDI7 in barley root cells, involving transport across the tonoplast, is proposed.
gamma-Tubulin is typically associated with microtubule organising centres, such as the centrosome, and appears to mediate microtubule nucleation. Centrosomes are usually not found in higher plants, but active genes homologous to gamma-tubulin have been identified in the plant kingdom, including the angiosperms Arabidopsis, maize and rice. We have isolated and characterised gamma-tubulin cDNA sequences of two further angiosperm species, barley and tobacco. Sequence comparison revealed a phylogenetic tree with distinct clusters corresponding to the systematic position of the species. Furthermore, domains, thought to be exposed in the folded protein and to be candidates for interaction with associated, nucleation-site related proteins, exhibited motifs highly specific of multicellular plants. Strong expression of the gamma-tubulin genes, as determined by Northern blotting, correlated with mitotic activity. Expression dropped distinctly when mitotic activity ceased. Thus, in post-mitotic tissues that showed intricate reshuffling of cortical microtubule arrays related to cell shaping only very low gamma-tubulin steady-state RNA levels were found, contrasting with the situation for alpha-tubulin. The findings indicate that gamma-tubulin expression in plants may be more tightly linked to mitosis, although there is some gamma-tubulin expression at the RNA level even after mitosis. It follows that the post-mitotic changes in microtubular arrays may be less dependent on concurrent gamma-tubulin RNA expression than mitotic cells.
Oxalate oxidase catalyzes the oxidation of oxalate to carbon dioxide and hydrogen peroxide, making it useful for clinical analysis of oxalate in biological fluids. An artificial gene for barley oxalate oxidase has been used to produce functional recombinant enzyme in a Pichia pastoris heterologous expression system, yielding 250 mg of purified oxalate oxidase from 5 L of fermentation medium. The recombinant oxalate oxidase was expressed as a soluble, hexameric 140 kDa glycoprotein containing 0.2 g-atom Mn/monomer with a specific activity of 10 U/mg, similar to the properties reported for enzyme isolated from barley. No superoxide dismutase activity was detected in the recombinant oxalate oxidase. EPR spectra indicate that the majority of the manganese in the protein is present as Mn(II), and are consistent with the six-coordinate metal center reported in the recent X-ray crystal structure for barley oxalate oxidase. The EPR spectra change when bulky anions such as iodide bind, indicating conversion to a five-coordinate complex. Addition of oxalate perturbs the EPR spectrum of the Mn(II) sites, providing the first characterization of the substrate complex. The optical absorption spectrum of the concentrated protein contains features associated with a minor six-coordinate Mn(III) species, which disappears on addition of oxalate. EPR spin-trapping experiments indicate that carboxylate free radicals (CO2*-) are transiently produced by the enzyme in the presence of oxalate, most likely during reduction of the Mn(III) sites. These features are incorporated into a turnover mechanism for oxalate oxidase.
HvGAMYB, a MYB transcription factor previously shown to be expressed in barley aleurone cells in response to gibberellin during germination, also has an important role in gene regulation during endosperm development. The mRNA was detected early (10 DAF) in the seeds where it accumulates, not only in the aleurone layer, starchy endosperm, nucellar projection and vascular tissue, but also in the immature embryo as shown by in situ hybridization analysis. The HvGAMYB protein, expressed in bacteria, binds to oligonucleotides containing the 5'-TAACAAC-3' or 5'-CAACTAAC-3' sequences, derived from the promoter regions of the endosperm-specific genes Hor2 and Itr1, encoding a B-hordein and trypsin-inhibitor BTI-CMe, respectively. Binding is prevented when these motifs are mutated to 5'-TgACAAg-3' and 5'-CgACTgAC-3'. Transient expression experiments in co-bombarded developing endosperms demonstrate that HvGAMYB trans-activates transcription from native Hor2 and Itr1 promoters through binding to the intact motifs described above. Trans-activation of the Hor2 promoter also requires an intact prolamine box (PB). This suggests that HvGAMYB interacts in developing barley endosperms with the PB-binding factor BPBF, an endosperm-specific DOF transcriptional activator of the Hor2 gene. The in vivo interaction experiment between HvGAMYB and BPBF was done in the yeast two-hybrid system, where HvGAMYB potentiates the BPBF trans-activation capacity through interaction with its C-terminal domain.
Magnesium (Mg) chelatase is a heterotrimeric enzyme complex that catalyzes a key regulatory and enzymatic reaction in chlorophyll biosynthesis, the insertion of Mg(2+) into protoporphyrin IX. Studies of the enzyme complex reconstituted in vitro have shown that all three of its subunits, CHL I, CHL D, and CHL H, are required for enzymatic activity. However, a new T-DNA knockout mutant of the chlorina locus, ch42-3 (Chl I), in Arabidopsis is still able to accumulate some chlorophyll despite the absence of Chl I mRNA and protein. In barley (Hordeum vulgare), CHL I is encoded by a single gene. We have identified an open reading frame that apparently encodes a second Chl I gene, Chl I2. Chl I1 and Chl I2 mRNA accumulate to similar levels in wild type, yet CHL I2 protein is not detectable in wild type or ch42-3, although the protein is translated and stromally processed as shown by in vivo pulse labeling and in vitro chloroplast imports. It is surprising that CHL D accumulates to wild-type levels in ch42-3, which is in contrast to reports that CHL D is unstable in CHL I-deficient backgrounds of barley. Our results show that limited Mg chelatase activity and CHL D accumulation can occur without detectable CHL I, despite its obligate requirement in vitro and its proposed chaperone-like stabilization and activation of CHL D. Thus, the unusual post-translational regulation of the CHL I2 protein provides an opportunity to study the different steps involved in stabilization and activation of the heterotrimeric Mg chelatase in vivo.
Developing seeds consist of genetically distinct maternal and filial tissues, whose interactions during development are largely unknown. To better understand the molecular physiology of developing seed tissues in barley, we created a high-density cDNA macroarray bearing 711 cDNA fragments from 691 clones representing at least 620 unique genes mainly derived from a cDNA library constructed with mRNA from the early stages of caryopsis development. This array has been used to compare gene expression patterns in maternal pericarp and filial embryo sac tissues of caryopses sampled 1-7 days after flowering (DAF). The profiles obtained for both tissues revealed that at least 26 genes in pericarp and 12 genes in embryo sac tissues were up-regulated by more than a factor of two during this period. RNAs expressed at high levels in the pericarp mainly encode enzymes involved in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, but also include mRNA for a transcription factor related to FILAMENTOUS FLOWER (FIL). Genes preferentially expressed in the embryo sac are mainly related to degradation and/or processing of proteins or are involved in the process of starch accumulation, which begins in the seed at this time. Some of the most conspicuously regulated genes were studied in more detail by Northern analysis and in situ hybridization. The mRNA with the highest apparent signal intensity encodes a methionine synthase (MSY). MSY is highly expressed throughout the pericarp and to a lower extent in the transfer cell layer of the endosperm. Of special interest is a gene of unknown function because its high-level expression is restricted to the nucellar projection, the maternal transfer tissue of the caryopsis. This gene, represented by clone HY09L21, may play a central role in transport processes and thus in embryo growth.
Grain texture in barley is an important quality character as soft-textured cultivars have better malting quality. In wheat, texture is considered to be determined by the puroindolines, a group of basic hydrophobic proteins present on the surface of the starch granule. Hard wheats have been proposed to lack puroindoline a or to have mutant forms of puroindoline b which do not bind to the granule surface. Analysis of six barley cultivars (three soft-textured and three hard) showed that all contained proteins homologous to wheat puroindoline b, but PCR analysis failed to show any differences in amino acid sequences similar to those which have been proposed to determine textural differences in wheat. Southern blot analysis showed two hordoindoline b genes which were isolated and shown to encode proteins with 94% sequence identity. Expression of hordoindoline b mRNA occurred in the starchy endosperm and aleurone layer of the developing seed, but not in the embryo. Analysis of seven soft- and six hard-textured barley varieties showed that all contained hordoindoline a except two hard varieties (Sundance, Hart) which were subsequently shown to both lack hordoindoline a mRNA. It was therefore concluded that there is not a clear relationship between the presence of hordoindoline a and grain texture in barley.
We analysed pathogenesis-related expression of genes, that are assumed to be involved in ubiquitous plant defence mechanisms like the oxidative burst, the hypersensitive cell death reaction (HR) and formation of localized cell wall appositions (papillae). We carried out comparative northern blot and RT-PCR studies with near-isogenic barley (Hordeum vulgareL. cv. Pallas) lines (NILs) resistant or susceptible to the powdery mildew fungus race A6 (Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei, BghA6). The NILs carrying one of the R-genes Mla12, Mlg or the mlo mutant allele mlo5 arrest fungal development by cell wall appositions (mlo5) or a HR (Mla12) or both (Mlg). Expression of an aspartate protease gene, an ascorbate peroxidase gene and a newly identified cysteine protease gene was up-regulated after inoculation with BghA6, whereas the constitutive expression-level of a BAS gene, that encodes an alkyl hydroperoxide reductase, was reduced. Expression of a newly identified barley homologue of a mammalian cell death regulator, Bax inhibitor 1, was enhanced after powdery mildew inoculation. An oxalate oxidase-like protein was stronger expressed in NILS expressing penetration resistance. A so far unknown gene that putatively encodes the large subunit of a superoxide generating NADPH oxidases was constitutively expressed in barley leaves and its expression pattern did not change after inoculation. A newly identified barley Rac1 homologue was expressed constitutively, such as the functionally linked NADPH oxidase gene. Gene expression patterns are discussed with regard to defence mechanisms and signal transduction.
Transcriptionally active Ty1-copia LTR-retrotransposons were found in oat using RT-PCR for amplifying the reverse transcriptase domain. Sequence analysis of the RT-PCR clones suggested that oat LTR-retrotransposons consist of at least seven groups, which were tentatively designated as Oatrt1 to Oatrt7. A full length copy of Oatrt1 was isolated from an oat genomic library, and was designated OARE-1. OARE-1 was 8,665 bp long and a member of the BARE-1 subgroup. The oat genome carried it in multiple copies (at least 10,000 copies / a hexaploid genome). The expression of OARE-1 was intensively induced by wounding, UV light, jasmonic acid and salicylic acid, and its pattern was very similar to that of the PAL (phenylalanin ammonia lyase) gene. Furthermore, OARE-1 was highly activated by infection with an incompatible race of the crown rust fungus, Puccinia coronata. These results suggest that OARE-1 is highly sensitive to various abiotic and biotic stimuli leading to plant defense responses.
Obligate plant-pathogenic fungi have proved extremely difficult to characterize with molecular genetics because they cannot be cultured away from host plants and only can be manipulated experimentally in limited circumstances. Previously, in order to characterize signal transduction processes during infection-related development of the powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis (syn. Erysiphe graminis) f. sp. hordei, we described a gene similar to the catalytic subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase A (here renamed Bka1). Functional characterization of this gene has been achieved by expression in a deltacpkA mutant of the nonobligate pathogen Magnaporthe grisea. This nonpathogenic M. grisea deltacpkA mutant displays delayed and incomplete appressorium development, suggesting a role for PKA-c in the signal transduction processes that control the maturation of infection cells. Transformation of the deltacpkA mutant with the mildew Bka1 open reading frame, controlled by the M. grisea MPG1 promoter, restored pathogenicity and appressorium maturation kinetics. The results provide, to our knowledge, the first functional genetic analysis of pathogenicity in an obligate pathogen and highlight the remarkable conservation of signaling components regulating infection-related development in pathogenic fungi.
The Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH) was used to isolate large numbers of low temperature-induced genes from the cold-treated winter barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Dongbori). One hundred and sixty blti (barley low temperature-induced) cDNA clones were obtained. Northern blot analyses showed that several blti clones were differentially expressed by treatment of low temperature, NaCl, dehydration and ABA. One of the clones, blti2, was induced from 3 to 72 h after cold treatment while its transcript was detected only at 12 h after ABA treatment, indicating that the expression of blti2 by low temperature was regulated by an ABA-independent pathway. The full-length cDNA sequences were 944 nucleotides long and the open reading frame consisted of 492 nucleotides encoding 164 amino acids. Nucleotide sequences showed no sequence homology with the previously reported low temperature-responsive (LTR) barley genes, and the deduced amino acid sequences revealed that the blti2 contains three membrane-spanning regions. These results suggest that blti2 is a novel transmembrane protein induced by low temperature.
We have identified three Arabidopsis genes with GAMYB-like activity, AtMYB33, AtMYB65, and AtMYB101, which can substitute for barley (Hordeum vulgare) GAMYB in transactivating the barley alpha-amylase promoter. We have investigated the relationships between gibberellins (GAs), these GAMYB-like genes, and petiole elongation and flowering of Arabidopsis. Within 1 to 2 d of transferring plants from short- to long-day photoperiods, growth rate and erectness of petioles increased, and there were morphological changes at the shoot apex associated with the transition to flowering. These responses were accompanied by accumulation of GAs in the petioles (GA(1) by 11-fold and GA(4) by 3-fold), and an increase in expression of AtMYB33 at the shoot apex. Inhibition of GA biosynthesis using paclobutrazol blocked the petiole elongation induced by long days. Causality was suggested by the finding that, with GA treatment, plants flowered in short days, AtMYB33 expression increased at the shoot apex, and the petioles elongated and grew erect. That AtMYB33 may mediate a GA signaling role in flowering was supported by its ability to bind to a specific 8-bp sequence in the promoter of the floral meristem-identity gene, LEAFY, this same sequence being important in the GA response of the LEAFY promoter. One or more of these AtMYB genes may also play a role in the root tip during germination and, later, in stem tissue. These findings extend our earlier studies of GA signaling in the Gramineae to include a dicot species, Arabidopsis, and indicate that GAMYB-like genes may mediate GA signaling in growth and flowering responses.
Vernalization and photoperiod (PP) responses are developmental mechanisms that allow plants to synchronize their growth and reproductive cycles with the seasonal weather changes. Vernalization requirement has been shown to influence the length of time that low-temperature (LT)-induced genes are up-regulated when cereal species are exposed to acclimating temperatures. The objective of the present study was to determine whether expression of LT-induced Wcs and Wcor gene families is also developmentally regulated by PP response. The LT-tolerant, highly short-day (SD)-sensitive barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Dicktoo) was subjected to 8-h SD and 20-h long-day PPs at cold-acclimating temperatures over a period of 70 d. A delay in transition from the vegetative to the reproductive stage under SD resulted in an increased level and longer retention of LT tolerance. Similar WCS and WCOR protein homologs were expressed, but levels of expression were much higher in plants acclimated under SD, indicating that the poor LT tolerance of long-day plants was the result of an inability to maintain LT-induced genes in an up-regulated state. These observations indicate that the PP and vernalization genes influence the expression of LT-induced genes in cereals through separate pathways that eventually converge to activate genes controlling plant development. In both instances, the delay in the transition from the vegetative to the reproductive stage produces increased LT tolerance that is sustained for a longer period of time, indicating that the developmental genes determine the duration of expression of LT-induced structural genes.
A barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cDNA, PM19, encoding a putative plasma membrane protein was isolated through differential screening of a dormant wild oat embryo library. PM19 is expressed in barley embryos from mid-embryogenesis up to maturity. PM19 mRNA levels decline upon germination, whereas dormant embryos retained high levels of message for up to 72 h of imbibition. PM19 mRNA levels also remained high or were reinduced in non-dormant embryos by treatments that prevented germination (250 mm NaCl, 10% sorbitol, or 50 microm ABA). The PM19 protein sequence is highly conserved in monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants.
A chimaeric gene was constructed comprising a wheat high molecular weight glutenin subunit gene promoter, a 304-bp sucrose non-fermenting-1-related (SnRK1) protein kinase sequence in the antisense orientation, and the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S RNA gene terminator. Transgenic barley plants containing the antisense SnRK1 chimaeric gene were produced by particle bombardment of barley immature embryos with the aim of obtaining plants expressing the antisense SnRK1 sequence in the seeds. Despite the fact that the promoter was expected to be active only in seeds, two independent transgenic lines were found to fail to transmit the transgene to the T1 generation. These T0 plants had matured and died before this was discovered, but subsequently four other independent transgenic lines were found to be affected in the same way. Cytological analysis of the pollen grains in these lines showed that about 50% were normal but the rest had arrested at the binucleate stage of development, were small, pear-shaped, contained little or no starch and were non-functional. The presence of antisense SnRK1 transcripts was detected in the anthers of the four lines analyzed and a ubiquitin promoter/UidA (Gus) gene, one of the marker genes codelivered with the antisense gene, was found to be expressed only in the abnormal pollen. Expression analyses confirmed that SnRK1 is expressed in barley anthers and that expression of one class of SnRK1 transcripts (SnRK1b) was reduced in the abnormal lines. All of the abnormal lines showed approximately 50% seed set, and none of the transgenes were detected in the T1 generation.
Using both biolistic and Agrobacterium-mediated DNA delivery, we have investigated the transformation and regeneration capacity for five Nordic elite cultivars of barley. Transformation was followed as transient expression of the uidA or gfp gene in barley callus. Callus formation and regeneration of transformed callus were evaluated based on callus induction frequency, growth rate, callus appearance, and shoot formation frequency. From the accumulated results, one of the elite cultivars has been selected for our ongoing work in molecular breeding of barley.
Retrotransposons and retroviruses share similar intracellular life cycles and major encoded proteins, but retrotransposons lack the envelope (env) critical for infectivity. Retrotransposons are ubiquitous and abundant in plants and active retroviruses are known in animals. Although a few env-containing retroelements, gypsy-like Athila, Cyclops, and Calypso and copia-like SIRE-1, have been identified in plants, the general presence and functionality of the domain remains unclear. We show here that env-class elements are present throughout the flowering plants and are widely transcribed. Within the grasses, we show the transcription of the env domain itself for Bagy-2 and related retrotransposons, all members of the Athila group. Furthermore, Bagy-2 transcripts undergo splicing to generate a subgenomic env product as do those of retroviruses. Transcription and the polymorphism of their insertion sites in closely related barley cultivars suggests that at least some are propagationally active. The putative ENV polypeptides of Bagy-2 and rice Rigy-2 contain predicted leucine zipper and transmembrane domains typical of retroviral ENVs. These findings raise the prospect of active retroviral agents among the plants.
The current model of gibberellin (GA) signal transduction is based on a derepressible system and a number of candidate negative regulators have been identified in Arabidopsis. We previously have reported the identification of the Arabidopsis gene SHORT INTERNODES (SHI) that causes suppression of GA responses when constitutively activated. In this paper, we show by using reporter gene analysis that the SHI gene is expressed in young organs, e.g. shoot apices and root tips. The model predicts a suppressor of GA responses to be active in these tissues to prevent premature growth or development. To study the effect of SHI on GA signaling, we used a functional assay that measures effects of signaling components on a well-defined GA response; the up-regulation of alpha-amylase in barley (Hordeum vulgare) aleurones in response to GA treatment. We found that SHI was able to specifically block the activity of a high-isoelectric point alpha-amylase promoter following GA(3) treatment, which further supports that SHI is a suppressor of GA responses. We have identified two putative loss-of-function insertion alleles of SHI and lines homozygous for either of the new alleles show no phenotypic deviations from wild type. Because SHI belongs to a gene family consisting of nine members, we suggest that SHI and the SHI-related genes are functionally redundant. We also show that a functional ERECTA allele is able to partly suppress the dwarfing effect of the shi gain-of-function mutation, suggesting that the erecta mutation harbored by the Landsberg erecta ecotype is an enhancer of the shi dwarf phenotype.
Two winter barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Igri) genomic clones, lambda gblt101.1 and lambda gblt101.2, encoding the blt101 gene family, were isolated from a genomic library. Deletion analysis of the blt101.1 promoter, using transient beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter expression assays, indicated that it contains at least three regulatory regions. A 107-bp region between nucleotides -168 and -275 with respect to the translation initiation codon, confers high-level GUS reporter expression at low temperature and contains a sequence (designated CR1) that is highly conserved in equivalent positions within the promoters of both members of the blt101 gene family. A 10-bp motif contained within CR1 binds proteins present in nuclear extracts from both control and low-temperature-treated barley tissue. Loss-of-function experiments, using transient-expression analysis, confirmed that this motif acts as a previously unreported low-temperature-responsive element. Nuclease sensitivity analysis of intact chromatin indicated that the blt101.1 promoter becomes more susceptible to DNase and micrococcal nuclease at low temperature, consistent with chromatin reorganisation upon transcriptional induction. It is proposed that both the 10-bp motif and chromatin reorganisation are involved in the regulation of blt101.1 at low temperature. This is the first detailed analysis of a low-temperature-specific plant promoter and identifies a novel low-temperature-response element.
Betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) is an important enzyme for Gly betaine synthesis. We isolated two types of BADH cDNAs (BBD1 and BBD2) from barley. As BBD1 contained the signal sequence (SKL) targeting to microbodies, BBD2 was more similar to previously reported genes coding for BADH in dicotyledons (chloroplast type) than those in monocotyledons (microbody type). The two barley BADH genes showed different expression patterns. The BBD1 transcript was more abundant in roots than leaves and was induced to higher levels by salt, drought and abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. BBD2 transcript was more abundant in leaves and induced by salt, drought, PEG and ABA treatment. To understand the processing of these BADH proteins, we partially purified both enzymes and determined their N-terminal sequences. Based on comparisons of the N-terminal sequences to their deduced amino acid sequence, neither BBD1 nor BBD2 is processed at the N-terminus. These results suggest that BBD2 codes for a new type of BADH, which is not localized in either chloroplasts or mitochondria.
The transcriptional activity of NORs in a new structural mutant of barley (PK-88-4) was studied based on the positive reaction of NORs of metaphase chromosomes with AgNO3 and the number and size of silver-stained nucleoli in somatic interphase cells and meiocytes. PK-88-4 proved to contain a pericentric inversion that split NOR 7 into two unequal parts residing in the opposite arms of the reconstructed chromosome 7(5). This chromosomal rearrangement enables testing of intrachromosomal suppression of NORs and provides insight into the mechanisms of intraspecific nucleolar dominance. Both parts of the split NOR proved to be transcriptionally active, and are not subject to intrachromosomal nucleolar dominance. Thus, translocation-induced intraspecific nucleolar dominance is probably the result of interaction of NOR6 and NOR7 or other genetic factors located on the NOR-bearing chromosomes 6(6H) and 7(5H).
Abscisic acid (ABA) induces genes that are highly expressed during late embryogenesis, but suppresses gibberellin (GA)-responsive genes essential for seed germination and seedling growth. Promoter elements necessary and sufficient for ABA up- and down-regulation of gene expression have been previously defined in barley aleurone layers. We have studied the effect of a protein phosphatase 2C, ABI1, an ABA-inducible protein kinase, PKABA1, and a transcription factor, VP1, on ABA action in a barley aleurone transient expression system. The observations have allowed us to dissect ABA signal transduction pathways leading to either induction or suppression of gene expression. The ABA induction of embryogenesis genes is highly inhibited in the presence of a mutated protein phosphatase 2C, encoded by the abi1-1 dominant mutant gene that is known to block ABA responses in Arabidopsis. However, the abi1-1 gene product has no effect on the ABA suppression of a GA-responsive alpha-amylase gene. On the other hand, PKABA1 suppresses the expression of alpha-amylase genes, but has little effect on ABA up-regulated genes. Therefore, it appears that ABA induction and suppression follow two separate signal transduction pathways with the former inhibited by ABI1 and the latter modulated by PKABA1. The presence of VP1 enhances the ABA induction of late embryogenesis genes, but also suppresses germination specific genes. A schematic model based on these observations is presented to explain the effect of these regulatory proteins on ABA-mediated gene expression.
The plastid gene psbD encodes D2, a photosystem II reaction center chlorophyll-binding protein. psbD is transcribed from a conserved chloroplast promoter that is activated by blue, white, or UV-A light. In this study, various forms of the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) chloroplast psbD-LRP were fused to the uidA reporter gene and introduced into the tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) plastid genome through homologous recombination. Primer extension analysis of transcripts from the psbD-LRP-uidA construct showed that the barley psbD-LRP was activated in tobacco by blue or white light. Transcription from this construct was also regulated by circadian cycling indicating that the barley psbD-LRP could respond to light modulated regulatory pathways in tobacco. Mutation of the psbD-LRP prokaryotic -10 promoter element reduced transcription to very low levels in all light regimes. In contrast, mutation of a prokaryotic -35 promoter element had no effect on transcription from the psbD-LRP. Deletion or mutation of an upstream activating element, the AAG-box (-36 to -64), also reduced transcription from the construct to very low levels. In contrast, deletion of the upstream PGT-box (-71 to -100) did not alter promoter activation by blue light, or responsiveness to circadian cycling. These in vivo studies confirm the importance of the psbD-LRP -10 promoter element and AAG-box in light regulation and demonstrate that these elements are sufficient to mediate circadian cycling of the barley psbD promoter.
Libraries of modified genes are often screened during the process of genetically engineering enzymes with specifically tailored activities. It is important, therefore, to create expression systems which allow for the rapid screening of many clones. We developed an Escherichia coli expression system which will secrete enzymes into the growth medium. We describe the first reported expression of barley alpha-amylase in E. coli. The enzyme is secreted onto solid media containing starch to produce easily visualized halos. In addition, the enzyme is secreted into liquid media in an intact, active form.
Plant K(+) transporters of the HAK family belong to four rather divergent phylogenetic clusters, although most of the transporters belong to clusters I or II. A simple phylogenetic analysis of fungal and plant HAK transporters suggests that an original HAK gene duplicated even before fungi and plants diverged, generating transporters that at present fulfill different functions in the plant. The HvHAK1 transporter belongs to cluster I and mediates high-affinity K(+) uptake in barley roots, but no function is known for the cluster II transporter, HvHAK2, which is not functional in yeast. The function of HvHAK2 was investigated by constructing HvHAK1-HAK2 chimeric transporters, which were not functional even when they included only short fragments of HvHAK2. Then, amino acids characteristic of cluster II in the N terminus and in the first transmembrane domain were introduced into HvHAK1. All of these changes increased the Rb(+) K(m), introducing minimal changes in the Na(+) K(m), which suggested that HvHAK2 is a low-affinity, Na(+)-sensitive K(+) transporter. Using a K(+)-defective Escherichia coli mutant, we functionally expressed HvHAK2 and found that the predicted characteristics were correct, as well as discovering that the bacterial expression of HvHAK2 is functional at pH 5.5 but not at 7.5. We discuss whether HvHAK2 may be a tonoplast transporter effective for vacuolar K(+) depletion in K(+) starved plants.
To investigate the role in transcription initiation of sequences upstream of the promoter for subgenomic RNA2 (sgRNA2) of Barley yellow dwarf virus PAV, deletion and insertion clones were constructed and the 5' termini of all three sgRNAs were determined. Deletion and insertion of sequences upstream of the transcription start site of sgRNA2 altered the position and nucleotide used to initiate transcription of sgRNA2, but not of sgRNAs 1 or 3. Since the promoter for sgRNA2 is downstream of the mutations, these results show that sequences outside of the core promoter can influence transcription start site selection from the sgRNA2 promoter.
Plant ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGP) is a heterotetrameric enzyme composed of two large and two small subunits. Here, we report the structures of the maize (Zea mays) genes encoding AGP small subunits of leaf and endosperm. Excluding exon 1, protein-encoding sequences of the two genes are nearly identical. Exon 1 coding sequences, however, possess no similarity. Introns are placed in identical positions and exhibit obvious sequence similarity. Size differences are primarily due to insertions and duplications, hallmarks of transposable element visitation. Comparison of the maize genes with other plant AGP small subunit genes leads to a number of noteworthy inferences concerning the evolution of these genes. The small subunit gene can be divided into two modules. One module, encompassing all coding information except that derived from exon 1, displays striking similarity among all genes. It is surprising that members from eudicots form one group, whereas those from cereals form a second group. This implies that the duplications giving rise to family members occurred at least twice and after the separation of eudicots and monocot cereals. One intron within this module may have had a transposon origin. A different evolutionary history is suggested for exon 1. These sequences define three distinct groups, two of which come from cereal seeds. This distinction likely has functional significance because cereal endosperm AGPs are cytosolic, whereas all other forms appear to be plastid localized. Finally, whereas barley (Hordeum vulgare) reportedly employs only one gene to encode the small subunit of the seed and leaf, maize utilizes the two genes described here.
Plant infection by the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea is brought about by the action of specialized infection cells called appressoria. These infection cells generate enormous turgor pressure, which is translated into an invasive force that allows a narrow penetration hypha to breach the plant cuticle. The Magnaporthe pde1 mutant was identified previously by restriction enzyme-mediated DNA integration mutagenesis and is impaired in its ability to elaborate penetration hyphae. Here we report that the pde1 mutation is the result of an insertion into the promoter of a P-type ATPase-encoding gene. Targeted gene disruption confirmed the role of PDE1 in penetration hypha development and pathogenicity but highlighted potential differences in PDE1 regulation in different Magnaporthe strains. The predicted PDE1 gene product was most similar to members of the aminophospholipid translocase group of P-type ATPases and was shown to be a functional homolog of the yeast ATPase gene ATC8. Spatial expression studies showed that PDE1 is expressed in germinating conidia and developing appressoria. These findings implicate the action of aminophospholipid translocases in the development of penetration hyphae and the proliferation of the fungus beyond colonization of the first epidermal cell.
When upright growing wild type barley seedling are placed to a horizontal position they will respond to this gravistimulation by a curvature against the gravitational force. The mutant serpentina, however, shows gravitropic response only in an early stage of development. Older seedlings, gravistimulated 92 h after germination are agravitropic. They will grow horizontally. We try to identify genes involved in gravitropism by comparing gene expression of i) non-gravistimulated and gravistimulated wild type barley seedlings and of ii) gravistimulated wild type and serpentina.
The leaf is a coordinated mosaic of developmental domains, which are evident from leaf inception on the flanks of the apical meristem. The subdivision of the meristem into molecularly defined domains is regulated by the interactions of a number of gene products and by receptor kinase-mediated signals. The acquisition of symmetry axes in the emerging leaf is a process coordinated by hormones (such as auxin and cytokinins) and the expression of classes of genes (such as the knox and the ARP, as1/rs2/phan, genes). As with simple leaves, the architecture of compound leaves is defined by spatial/temporal gradients of regulatory gene functions: complexity results from the interplay between leaf differentiation processes and genes maintaining a partial level of indeterminacy in the developing primordium. Boundaries between regions with different molecular 'addresses' are considered, in plants as in Drosophila, as organizing centres for lateral organ development.
Blumeria graminis f.sp. tritici (syn. Erysiphe graminis f.sp. tritici) causes an important disease of wheat (powdery mildew) to which Hordeum vulgare and H. chilense are resistant. The study of chromosomal addition lines of H. vulgare and H. chilense in wheat showed that they possessed resistance to wheat powdery mildew. This was expressed as a reduction of disease severity but it was not associated with increased macroscopically visible necrosis. The resistance is of broad genetic basis, conferred by gene(s) present on different chromosomes of both H. vulgare and H. chilense. The feasibility of transferring this resistance to wheat is discussed.
The effect of amitrole, known as an inhibitor of carotenoid biosynthesis, upon tetrapyrrole biosynthesis and its regulation has been studied. Etiolated barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seedlings, grown in 125 microM amitrole, accumulated high levels of 5-aminolevulinate, Mg-protoporphyrin, Mg-protoporphyrin monomethyl ester, and protochlorophyllide. The amitrole-treated seedlings did not form paracrystalline prolamellar bodies, and the induction of Lhc and RbcS gene expression was reduced by non-photooxidative, low-intensity light. None of these events was observed upon treatment of the seedlings with 100 microM norflurazon, another inhibitor of carotenoid biosynthesis. The effect of amitrole cannot be explained solely by interaction with a presumed feedback inhibition of 5-aminolevulinate synthesis since incubation with amitrole and 5-aminolevulinate indicated that deregulation also occurs at later steps of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis. A possible relationship between this deregulation and ultrastructural changes is discussed. In connection with previously published data, we discuss Mg-protoporphyrin and its monomethyl ester as possible candidates for a "plastid signal" that operates as a negative factor, reducing the expression of Lhc and RbcS genes in this higher plant.
Nicotianamine (NA) is a precursor for mugineic acid-family phytosiderophores, which are a critical component of the Fe aquisition process in graminaceous plants. In addition, nicotianamine synthase (NAS) is strongly induced in these plants by Fe deficiency. NA is essential for Fe metabolism also in dicots, but NAS is not induced by Fe deficiency. We introduced a barley HvNAS1 promoter-gus fusion gene into tobacco. GUS activity was induced in the roots of these plants by Fe deficiency, and was constitutively expressed at a low level in their leaves.
We have recently used a green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion to the gammab protein of Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) to monitor cell-to-cell and systemic virus movement. The gammab protein is involved in expression of the triple gene block (TGB) proteins encoded by RNAbeta but is not essential for cell-to-cell movement. The GFP fusion appears not to compromise replication or movement substantially, and mutagenesis experiments demonstrated that the three most abundant TGB-encoded proteins, betab (TGB1), betac (TGB3), and betad (TGB2), are each required for cell-to-cell movement (D. M. Lawrence and A. O. Jackson, Mol. Plant Pathol. 2:65-75, 2001). We have now extended these analyses by engineering a fusion of GFP to TGB1 to examine the expression and interactions of this protein during infection. BSMV derivatives containing the TGB1 fusion were able to move from cell to cell and establish local lesions in Chenopodium amaranticolor and systemic infections of Nicotiana benthamiana and barley. In these hosts, the GFP-TGB1 fusion protein exhibited a temporal pattern of expression along the advancing edge of the infection front. Microscopic examination of the subcellular localization of the GFP-TGB1 protein indicated an association with the endoplasmic reticulum and with plasmodesmata. The subcellular localization of the TGB1 protein was altered in infections in which site-specific mutations were introduced into the six conserved regions of the helicase domain and in mutants unable to express the TGB2 and/or TGB3 proteins. These results are compatible with a model suggesting that movement requires associations of the TGB1 protein with cytoplasmic membranes that are facilitated by the TGB2 and TGB3 proteins.
This paper describes two-hybrid interactions amongst barley homeodomain proteins encoded by the Three Amino acid Loop Extension (TALE) superfamily. The class I KNOX protein BKN3 is shown to homodimerise and to associate with proteins encoded by the class I and II Knox genes BKn-1 and BKn-7. Furthermore, JUBEL1 and JUBEL2, two BELL1 homologous proteins, are identified and characterised as interacting partners of BKN3. Differences in the requirements of BKN3 derivatives for interactions with KNOX and JUBEL proteins imply the involvement of overlapping but slightly different domains. This set of results is an example for interactions amongst different classes of plant TALE homeodomain proteins, as previously described for related animal proteins. Apparently identical spatial and temporal expression patterns of BKn-1, BKn-3, BKn-7, JuBel1 and JuBel2, as determined by in situ hybridisation, are compatible with possible interactions of their protein products in planta. Contradictory to the common model, that the transcriptional down-regulation of certain class 1 Knox-genes is the prerequisite for organ differentiation, transcripts of all five genes were, similar to Tkn1 and Tkn2/LeT6 of tomato, detected in incipient and immature leaves as well as in meristematic tissues. A characteristic phenotype is induced by the overexpression of JuBel2 in transgenic tobacco plants.
The gibberellin-insensitive overgrowth mutant of barley, slender, exhibits altered expression of a number of nuclear genes in comparison with the wild type. There is a particularly marked reduction in slender seedlings of transcript encoding protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase (POR), the enzyme which catalyses the penultimate and only light-requiring step in chlorophyll biosynthesis. The expression of the two barley genes encoding light-dependent POR, PORA and PORB was investigated. Expression of both genes was found to be reduced in slender seedlings relative to the wild type, in both etiolated and light-grown leaf tissue; this was most marked in the zone of rapid cell extension. Western blot analysis showed that POR protein was also less abundant in etiolated and in light-grown slender than in the equivalent wild-type leaf tissue, although the effect was less pronounced than at the transcript level. Protochlorophyllide content in etiolated slender seedlings was reduced in comparison with wild-type seedlings, though chlorophyll content in light-grown leaf blades was unaffected. The reduction in POR expression in slender barley may reflect a novel response to the constitutive activation of gibberellin signalling in this mutant. Despite the consequences of the mutation for POR gene expression, slender seedlings develop apparently normal chloroplasts in the light, and etioplasts with well-defined prolamellar bodies when grown in continuous darkness. This suggests that the POR content of wild-type barley seedlings is well in excess of the minimum required for normal plastid development.
The Amy32b gene is a member of the low-pI alpha-amylase gene family of barley, whose expression is tightly regulated by hormones in the aleurone layer. Four cis-elements are known to be important for the GA induction of this gene: GARE, amylase box, pyrimidine box, and O2S. These sequences are located between -101 and -149 relative to the transcription start site. In the present work, we have created a series of Amy32b promoter-GUS reporter constructs introducing mutations in the -79 to -93 region. Using a transient expression system, we have functionally defined an additional region (-81 to -89) essential for the GA activation of the Amy32b promoter. This region is highly conserved among barley, wheat, and wild oat low-pI alpha-amylase promoters. Interestingly, in contrast with the variability in the relative distances among other cis-elements, this region maintains a nearly constant distance to GARE, which suggests that the function of these elements might be coupled. The involvement of this and other sequences in the transactivation of Amy32b by a transcription factor, GAMyb, has also been studied. Our results indicate that the only indispensable element for the GAMyb transactivation of the alpha-amylase promoter is GARE. The present work brings new evidence to the proposed model that considers the GAMyb-GARE interaction as a critical point for the GA induction of alpha-amylase genes, but also strengthens the notion that multiple sequences are required for full regulation of alpha-amylase promoters.
We have studied the replication time, nuclear organization and histone acetylation patterns of distinct chromatin domains [nucleolus organizers (NORs), centromeres, euchromatin and heterochromatin] of barley during the cell cycle. The Rabl orientation of chromosomes, with centromeres and telomeres located at opposite nuclear poles, was found to be maintained throughout interphase. Replication started at the rDNA loci within nucleoli and then proceeded from the euchromatic distal chromosome regions toward the heterochromatic pole. Centromere association frequently occurred in mid- and late S-phase, i.e., during and after centromere replication. Euchromatin, centromeres and heterochromatin were found to be enriched in acetylated histone H4 (except for lysine 16) during their replication; then deacetylation occurred. The level of deacetylation of H4 in heterochromatin was more pronounced than in euchromatin. Deacetylation is finished in early G2-phase (lysine 8) or may last until mitosis or even the next G1-phase (lysines 5 and 12). The NORs were found to be most strongly acetylated at lysines 5 and 12 of H4 during mitosis, independently of their potential activity in nucleolus formation and rDNA transcription. The acetylation pattern of chromosomal histone H3 was characterized by low acetylation intensity at centromeres (lysines 9/18) and pericentromeric regions (lysine 14) and more intense uniform acetylation of the remaining chromatin; it remained fairly constant throughout the cell cycle. These results have been compared with the corresponding data published for mammals and for the dicot Vicia faba. This revealed conserved features as well as plant- or species-specific peculiarities. In particular, the connection of acetylation intensity of H4 at microscopically identifiable chromatin domains with replicational but not with transcriptional activity during the cell cycle seems to be conserved among eukaryotes.
Three cDNAs encoding the antifungal protein Ag-AFP from the fungus Aspergillus giganteus, a barley class II chitinase and a barley type I RIP, all regulated by the constitutive Ubiquitin1 promoter from maize, were expressed in transgenic wheat. In 17 wheat lines, stable integration and inheritance of one of the three transgenes has been demonstrated over four generations. The formation of powdery mildew (Erysiphe graminis f. sp. tritici) or leaf rust (Puccinia recondita f. sp. tritici) colonies was significantly reduced on leaves from afp or chitinase II- but not from rip I-expressing wheat lines compared with non-transgenic controls. The increased resistance of afp and chitinase II lines was dependent on the dose of fungal spores used for inoculation. Heterologous expression of the fungal afp gene and the barley chitinase II gene in wheat demonstrated that colony formation and, thereby, spreading of two important biotrophic fungal diseases is inhibited approximately 40 to 50% at an inoculum density of 80 to 100 spores per cm2.
Two cDNAs encoding polyamine oxidase (PAO) isoforms (BPAO1 and BPAO2) and the corresponding gene copies were isolated from barley cultivar Aura. Gene organization is not conserved between these two nonallelic coding sequences. Both precursor proteins include a cleavable N-terminal leader of 25 amino acids. N-terminal sequencing of PAO purified from barley seedlings reveals a unique amino-acid sequence corresponding to the BPAO2 N-terminus as predicted from the corresponding cDNA. BPAO2 has been purified, characterized and compared to maize PAO (MPAO), the best characterized member of this enzyme class. The two proteins show different pH optima for catalytic activity, Km and Vmax values with spermidine and spermine as substrates. Molecular modelling of BPAO2 reveals the same global fold as in MPAO. However, substitution of the active site residue Phe403 by a tyrosine, provides a rationale for the different catalytic properties of the two enzymes. In barley leaves PAO-specific activity is higher in isolated mesophyll protoplasts than in the extracellular fluids, whereas in maize the reverse is true. The C-terminus of BPAO2 shows homology with the endoplasmic reticulum retention signal that might be responsible for the subcellular localization observed. We conclude that BPAO2 is a symplastic PAO in barley mesophyll cells. Production of BPAO2 mRNA and the corresponding protein is induced by light, and has a different pattern of accumulation in leaves and coleoptiles.
Intricate changes in the patterns of the cytoskeleton, especially of microtubules, appear to control the establishment of complex plant cell shapes. Little is known about how these changes are accomplished. The objective of the present study was to test whether or not alpha-tubulin genes are differentially expressed during cell shaping in growing leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Five alpha-tubulin genes representing at least most members of the gene family were found to be expressed in the leaf. Dot-blot analyses revealed expression patterns that could be classified into three groups. Two isotypes (HVATUB2 and HVATUB4) were maximally expressed in the meristem with a steady decline during the differentiation process (1). One isotype (HVATUB3) appeared to be constitutively expressed during cell shaping, although strongest signals were found during late stages, before the general decline in microtubular activity (2). The most striking finding was that two types (HVATUB1 and HVATUB5) were almost exclusively expressed in early post-mitotic cells, when transverse microtubular bundles determining the future cell shape in the mesophyll are formed (3). Relative transcript abundance was highest in HVATUB2 and HVATUB3, whereas the transcript level of the only transiently expressed HVATUB5 was very low, even during its phase of maximum expression. The results are discussed in the context of the general debate relating to the significance of multiple tubulin isotypes.
A barley cDNA clone encoding a cysteine proteinase inhibitor was characterized. The deduced amino acid sequence of this barley cystatin (Hv-CPI) contains the motif QXVXG conserved among members of the cystatin superfamily. The gene (Icy), located on chromosome 2, was expressed in embryos, developing endosperms, leaves and roots as assessed by northern blot analysis. Western blot analysis detected a slightly retarded band in leaves that was not present in roots or seeds. In these two organs a more precise location of Hv-CPI was done by immuno-histochemical analysis, with polyclonal antibodies raised against the recombinant CPI protein expressed in Escherichia coli. This protein efficiently inhibited papain (Ki 2.0 x 10(-8) M) and ficin (Ki 2.2 x 10(-8) M) and, to a lesser extent, chymopapain (Ki 1.6 x 10(-7) M) and was inactive against bromelain. The Icy mRNA expression in vegetative tissues increased in response to anaerobiosis, dark and cold shock (6 degrees C).
We have identified the major endo-beta-1,4-xylanase (XYN-1) in the aleurone of germinating barley grain, and show that it is expressed as a precursor of Mr 61 500 with both N- and C-terminal propeptides. XYN-1 is synthesized as an inactive enzyme in the cytoplasm, and only becomes active at a late stage of germination when the aleurone ceases to secrete hydrolases. A series of processing steps, mediated in part by aleurone cysteine endoproteases, yields a mature active enzyme of Mr 34 000. Processing and extracellular release of the mature enzyme coincide with the programmed cell death (PCD)-regulated disintegration of aleurone cells. We discuss the significance of delayed aleurone cell-wall degradation by endoxylanases in relation to the secretory capacity of the aleurone, and propose a novel role for aleurone PCD in facilitating the export of hydrolases.
We proposed that an Fe-deficiency-induced gene, Ids3 (Iron deficiency specific clone no. 3), from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) roots encodes a dioxygenase that catalyzes the hydroxylation step from 2'-deoxymugineic acid (DMA) to mugineic acid (MA). To prove this hypothesis, we introduced the Ids3 gene into rice (Oryza sativa L.), which lacks Ids3 homologues and secretes DMA, but not MA. Transgenic rice plants, carrying either Ids3 cDNA or a barley genomic DNA fragment (20 kb) containing Ids3, were obtained using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Ids3 cDNA under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter was constitutively expressed in both the roots and the leaves of the transgenic rice, regardless of Fe nutrition status. In contrast, in the roots of transformants carrying a barley genomic fragment, transcripts of Ids3 were markedly increased in response to Fe deficiency. Slight expression of Ids3 was also observed in the leaves of the Fe-deficient plants. Western blot analysis confirmed the induction of Ids3 in response to Fe deficiency in the roots of the transformants carrying a genomic fragment. These expression patterns indicate that the 5'-flanking region of Ids3 works as a strong Fe-deficiency-inducible promoter in rice, as well as in barley. Both kinds of transgenic rice secreted MA in addition to DMA under Fe-deficient conditions, but wild-type rice secreted only DMA. This is in vivo evidence that IDS3 is the "MA synthase" that converts DMA to MA.
The expression of the Adh1 gene (alcohol dehydrogenase, EC 1.1.1.1) was studied in the aleurone layer of barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Himalaya). Expression increased markedly during grain development at the levels of activity, enzyme protein and mRNA. mRNA content, but not enzyme activity, could be increased further by exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) when isolated, de-embryonated developing grains were pre-treated with gibberellic acid (GA3) or fluridone. In isolated mature aleurone layers incubated with exogenous hormones, ADH mRNA was strongly up-regulated by ABA and down-regulated by GA3 within 6 h. With ABA, this increase in mRNA was followed by an increase in ADH protein and activity, peaking at 18 h. With GA3, the decrease in mRNA was accompanied by simultaneous decreases in protein and activity. In general, GA3 counteracted the effect of ABA and vice versa. In the aleurone of germinating grain, ADH activity decayed in a distal direction from the embryo, consistent with down-regulation by gibberellin(s) diffusing from it. It was concluded that ADH gene expression in the aleurone of the intact grain is regulated by an ABA/gibberellin interaction.
Abscisic acid (ABA) induces the expression of a battery of genes in mediating plant responses to environmental stresses. Here we report one of the early ABA-inducible genes in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), HVA22, which shares little homology with other ABA-responsive genes such as LEA (late embryogenesis-abundant) and RAB (responsive to ABA) genes. In grains, the expression of HVA22 gene appears to be correlated with the dormancy status. The level of HVA22 mRNA increases during grain development, and declines to an undetectable level within 12 h after imbibition of non-dormant grains. In contrast, the HVA22 mRNA level remains high in dormant grains even after five days of imbibition. Treatment of dormant grains with gibberellin (GA) effectively breaks dormancy with a concomitant decline of the level of HVA22 mRNA. The expression of HVA22 appears to be tissue-specific with the level of its mRNA readily detectable in aleurone layers and embryos, yet undetectable in the starchy endosperm. The expression of HVA22 in vegetative tissues can be induced by ABA and environmental stresses, such as cold and drought. Apparent homologues of this barley gene are found in phylogenetically divergent eukaryotic organisms, including cereals, Arabidopsis, Caenorhabditis elegans, man, mouse and yeast, but not in any prokaryotes. Interestingly, similar to barley HVA22, the yeast homologue is also stress-inducible. These observations suggest that the HVA22 and its homologues encode a highly conserved stress-inducible protein which may play an important role in protecting cells from damage under stress conditions in many eukaryotic organisms.
An rnc70 gene encoding a mutant bacterial ribonuclease III (RNase III) was introduced into wheat (Triticum aestivum cv. Bobwhite) by microprojectile bombardment. T1, T2, and T3 plants regenerated from three transgenic callus lines were challenged with barley stripe mosaic virus. Plants expressing RNase III exhibited a high level of resistance to the virus infection. This resistance was evidenced by the absence of virus symptoms and reduced accumulation of virions in these plants. The result demonstrates that this pathogen-targeted resistance strategy can be effectively employed in conferring resistance to viral diseases of cereal crops.
The antagonism between gibberellins (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA) is an important factor regulating the developmental transition from embryogenesis to seed germination. In barley aleurone layers, the expression of genes encoding alpha-amylases and proteases is induced by GA but suppressed by ABA. It has been shown that an ABA-induced protein kinase, PKABA1, mediates the ABA suppression of alpha-amylase expression. Using a barley aleurone transient expression system, we have now localized the site of action of PKABA1 relative to other signal transduction components governing the expression of alpha-amylase. The expression of alpha-amylase can be transactivated by the transcription factor GAMyb, which is itself induced by GA. A truncated GAMyb containing the DNA binding domain but lacking the transactivation domain prevents the GA induction of alpha-amylase, further supporting the notion that GAMyb mediates the GA induction of alpha-amylase expression. Although ABA and PKABA1 strongly inhibit the GA induction of alpha-amylase, they have no effect on GAMyb-transactivated alpha-amylase expression. Using a GAMyb promoter--beta-glucuronidase construct, we also show that both ABA and PKABA1 repress the GA induction of GAMyb. In the slender mutant, GAMyb and alpha-amylase are highly expressed, even in the absence of GA. However, this constitutive expression can still be inhibited by ABA, PKABA1, or an inhibitor of cGMP synthesis. On the basis of these observations, we suggest that PKABA1 acts upstream from the formation of functional GAMyb but downstream from the site of action of the Slender gene product. Because PKABA1 inhibits the GA induction of the GAMyb promoter--beta-glucuronidase construct, it appears that at least part of the action of PKABA1 is to downregulate GAMyb at the transcriptional level.
Protein kinases play a central role in signal transduction in all organisms and to study signal transduction in response to salt stress we have identified and characterized a gene encoding a protein kinase that is induced by salt stress and abscisic acid (ABA) in the salt-tolerant wild wheatgrass Lophopyrum elongatum (Host) A. Love. The product of the early salt stress-induced gene, Esi47, was found to belong to the "novel Arabidopsis protein kinase" group of plant serine/threonine protein kinases. Transient gene expression assays in barley aleurone tissue showed Esi47 to suppress the gibberellin induction of the barley low-pI alpha-amylase gene promoter, thus providing evidence for the role of this protein kinase gene in plant hormone signaling. Esi47 contains a small upstream open reading frame in the 5'-untranslated region of its transcript that is implicated in mediating the repression of the basal level of the gene expression and in regulating the ABA inducibility of the gene, as shown in the transient gene expression assay in maize callus. Three Arabidopsis homologs of Esi47 were identified, and different members of this clade of genes showed differential patterns of regulation by salt stress and ABA in Arabidopsis roots and leaves. At least one of the Arabidopsis homologs contains a small open reading frame in its 5'-untranslated region, indicating that the unusual regulatory mechanism identified in Esi47 may be widely conserved.
Instability of transgene expression in plants is often associated with complex multicopy patterns of transgene integration at the same locus, as well as position effects due to random integration. Based on maize transposable elements Activator (Ac) and Dissociation (Ds), we developed a method to generate large numbers of transgenic barley (Hordeum vulgare var Golden Promise) plants, each carrying a single transgene copy at different locations. Plants expressing Ac transposase (AcTPase) were crossed with plants containing one or more copies of bar, a selectable herbicide (Basta) resistance gene, located between inverted-repeat Ds ends (Ds-bar). F(1) plants were self-pollinated and the F(2) generation was analyzed to identify plants segregating for transposed Ds-bar elements. Of Ds-bar transpositions, 25% were in unlinked sites that segregated from vector sequences, other Ds-bar copies, and the AcTPase gene, resulting in numerous single-copy Ds-bar plants carrying the transgene at different locations. Transgene expression in F(2) plants with transposed Ds-bar was 100% stable, whereas only 23% of F(2) plants carrying Ds-bar at the original site expressed the transgene product stably. In F(3) and F(4) populations, transgene expression in 81.5% of plants from progeny of F(2) plants with single-copy, transposed Ds-bar remained completely stable. Analysis of the integration site in single-copy plants showed that transposed Ds-bar inserted into single- or low-copy regions of the genome, whereas silenced Ds-bar elements at their original location were inserted into redundant or highly repetitive genomic regions. Methylation of the non-transposed transgene and its promoter, as well as a higher condensation of the chromatin around the original integration site, was associated with plants exhibiting transgene silencing.
A large fraction of the genomes of grasses, members of the family Graminae, is composed of retrotransposons. These elements resemble animal retroviruses in their structure and possess a life cycle similar to theirs that includes transcription, translation, and integration of daughter copies. We have investigated if retrotransposons are generally transcribed in the grasses and other plants, and whether the various families of elements are translationally and integrationally active in multiple grass species. A systematic search of 7.8 x 10(5) publicly available expressed sequence tags from plants revealed widespread retrotransposon transcripts at a frequency of one in 1,000. Monocot retrotransposons found relatively more expressed sequence tags from non-source species than did those of dicots. Antibodies were raised to the capsid protein, GAG, of BARE-1, a transcribed and translated copia-like retrotransposon of barley (Hordeum vulgare). These detected immunoreactive proteins of sizes identical to those of the BARE-1 GAG and polyprotein, respectively, in other species of the tribe Triticeae as well as in oats (Avena sativa) and rice (Oryza sativa). Retrotransposon-based markers showed integrational polymorphisms for BARE-1 in different subfamilies of the Graminae. The results suggest that grasses share families of transcriptionally, translationally, and integrationally active retrotransposons, enabling a comparative and integrative approach to understanding the life cycle of retrotransposons and their impact on the genome.
The pathogenesis-related accumulation of superoxide radical anions (O2*-) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) was comparatively analyzed in a barley line (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Sultan-5) carrying the powdery mildew (Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei, Speer, Bgh) resistance gene Mla12, and in susceptible mutants defective in Mla12 or in genes "required for Mla12-specified disease resistance" (Rar1 and Rar2). In-situ localization of reactive oxygen intermediates was performed both by microscopic detection of azide-insensitive nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) reduction or diaminobenzidine (DAB) polymerization, and by an NBT-DAB double-staining procedure. The Mla12-mediated hypersensitive cell death occurred either in attacked epidermal cells or adjacent mesophyll cells of wild-type plants. Whole-cell H2O2 accumulation was detected in dying cells, while O2*- emerged in adjacent cells. Importantly, all susceptible mutants lacked these reactions. An oxalate oxidase, which is known to generate H2O2 and has been implicated in barley resistance against the powdery mildew fungus, was not differentially expressed between the wild type and all mutants. The results demonstrate that the Rar1 and Rar2 gene products, which are control elements of R-gene-mediated programmed cell death, also control accumulation of reactive oxygen intermediates but not the pathogenesis-related expression of oxalate oxidase.
The barley Mla locus confers multiple resistance specificities to the obligate fungal biotroph, Blumeria (= Erysiphe) graminis f. sp. hordei. Interspersed within the 240 kb Mla complex are three families of resistance gene homologs (RGHs). Probes from the Mla-RGH1 family were used to identify three classes of cDNAs. The first class is predicted to encode a full-length CC-NBS-LRR protein and the other two classes contain alternatively spliced, truncated variants. Utilizing a cosmid that contains a gene corresponding to the full-length candidate cDNA, two single-cell expression assays were used to demonstrate complementation of AvrMla6-dependent, resistance specificity to B. graminis in barley and wheat. The first of these assays was also used to substantiate previous genetic data that the Mla6 allele requires the signaling pathway component, Rar1, for function. Computational analysis of MLA6 and the Rar1-independent, MLA1 protein reveals 91.2% identity and shows that the LRR domain is subject to diversifying selection. Our findings demonstrate that highly related CC-NBS-LRR proteins encoded by alleles of the Mla locus can dictate similar powdery mildew resistance phenotypes yet still require distinct downstream signaling components.
We have shown that ent-kaurenoic acid oxidase, a member of the CYP88A subfamily of cytochrome P450 enzymes, catalyzes the three steps of the gibberellin biosynthetic pathway from ent-kaurenoic acid to GA(12). A gibberellin-responsive barley mutant, grd5, accumulates ent-kaurenoic acid in developing grains. Three independent grd5 mutants contain mutations in a gene encoding a member of the CYP88A subfamily of cytochrome P450 enzymes, defined by the maize Dwarf3 protein. Mutation of the Dwarf3 gene gives rise to a gibberellin-responsive dwarf phenotype, but the lesion in the gibberellin biosynthesis pathway has not been identified. Arabidopsis thaliana has two CYP88A genes, both of which are expressed. Yeast strains expressing cDNAs encoding each of the two Arabidopsis and the barley CYP88A enzymes catalyze the three steps of the GA biosynthesis pathway from ent-kaurenoic acid to GA(12). Sequence comparison suggests that the maize Dwarf3 locus also encodes ent-kaurenoic acid oxidase.
Nicotianamine (NA) is an intermediate in the biosynthetic pathway of the mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs), which are crucial components of the iron acquisition apparatus of graminaceous plants. In non-graminaceous plants, NA is thought to be an essential chelator for metal cation homeostasis. Thus NA plays a key role in Fe metabolism and homeostasis in all higher plants. Nicotianamine synthase (NAS, EC 2.5.1.43) catalyzes the trimerization of S-adenosylmethionine to form one molecule of NA. Barley, a plant that is resistant to Fe deficiency, secretes large amounts of MAs, whereas rice, a plant that is susceptible to Fe deficiency, secretes only small amounts. In this study we isolated a genomic fragment containing HvNAS1 from barley and three rice cDNA clones, osnas1, osnas2 and osnas3, from Fe-deficient rice roots. We also isolated a genomic fragment containing both OsNAS1 and OsNAS2. In contrast to barley, in which Fe deficiency induces the expression of NAS genes only in roots, Fe deficiency in rice induced NAS gene expression in both roots and chlorotic leaves. The amounts of endogenous NA in both the roots and leaves were higher than in barley. We introduced barley genomic DNA fragments containing HvNAS1 with either 9 or 2 kb of the 5'-flanking region into rice, using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Fe deficiency induced HvNAS1 expression in both roots and leaves of the transgenic rice, as occurs with rice NAS genes. Barley and rice NAS genes are compared in a discussion of alteration of the NAS genes during adaptation to Fe deficiency.
Double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) has been shown to specifically interfere with gene function in several organisms including tobacco and the model plant Arabidopsis. Here, we report on rapid and sequence-specific interference of dsRNA with gene function in cereals. Delivery of cognate dsRNA into single epidermal cells of maize, barley or wheat by particle bombardment interfered with the function of co-bombarded UidA (GUS) and TaGLP2a:GFP reporter genes. Cognate dsRNA was also found to specifically interfere with the function of the endogenous genes A1 and Ant18 encoding dihydroflavonol-4-reductase in maize and barley, respectively. Dihydroflavonol-4-reductase is an essential enzyme of the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway in maize and barley. This pathway can be induced by transient expression of the C1- and b-Peru genes that encode transcription factors. In the presence of dsRNA corresponding to the dihydroflavonol-4-reductase gene, C1- and b-Peru-dependent, cell-autonomous accumulation of red anthocyanin pigments in bombarded cells of maize and barley was reduced. dsRNA was also demonstrated to negatively interfere with Mlo, which encodes a negative regulator of race non-specific resistance to the powdery mildew fungus in barley. In the presence of Mlo dsRNA, transformed cells became more resistant, thereby phenocopying plants that carry a heritable loss-of function mlo resistance allele. The results suggest that direct delivery of dsRNA to cereals leads to a rapid and sequence-specific interference with gene function at the single-cell level.
A cDNA clone, Ids3 (iron deficiency-specific clone 3), was isolated from an Fe-deficient-root cDNA library of Hordeum vulgare. Ids3 encodes a protein of 339 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 37.7 kDa, and its amino acid sequence shows a high degree of similarity with those of plant and fungal 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenases. One aspartate and two histidine residues for ferrous Fe binding (Asp-211, His-209, His-265) and arginine and serine residues for 2-oxoglutarate binding (Arg-275, Ser-277) are conserved in the predicted amino acid sequence of Ids3. Ids3 expression was rapidly induced by Fe deficiency, and was suppressed by re-supply of Fe. Among eight graminaceous species tested, Ids3 expression was observed only in Fe-deficient roots of H. vulgare and Secale cereale. which not only secrete 2'-deoxymugineic acid (DMA), but also mugineic acid (MA) and 3-epihydroxymugineic acid (epiHMA, H. vulgare), and 3-hydroxymugineic acid (HMA, S. cereale). The Ids3 gene is encoded on the long arm of chromosome 4H of H. vulgare, which also carries the hydroxylase gene that converts DMA to MA. Moreover, the Ids2 gene, which is the plant dioxygenase with the highest homology to Ids3, is encoded on the long arm of chromosome 7H of H. vulgate, which carries the hydroxylase gene that converts MA to epiHMA. The observed expression patterns of the Ids3 and Ids2 genes strongly suggest that IDS3 is an enzyme that hydroxylates the C-2' positions of DMA and epiHDMA, while IDS2 hydroxylates the C-3 positions of MA and DMA.
The induction of alpha-amylase triggered by gibberellic acid in barley embryos is repressed by sugars. We investigated the effects of glucose on the gibberellin signal transduction pathway to localize the site of interaction of the sugar/hormone signalling pathways. Our results indicate that glucose represses gibberellin signalling late along this hormone transduction pathway, downstream of transcription of the gibberellin-modulated transcriptional activator (GAMYB) needed for alpha-amylase induction. This result suggests either that glucose repression is transduced by a pathway independent of gibberellin signalling or that repression occurs at the level of GAMYB translation.
When auxin stimulates rapid cell elongation growth of cereal coleoptiles, it causes a degradation of 1,3:1,4-beta-glucan in hemicellulosic polysaccharides. We examined gene expressions of endo-1,3:1,4-beta-glucanase (EI) and exo-beta-glucanase (ExoII), of which optimum pH are about 5, and molecular distribution of hemicellulosic polysaccharides in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) coleoptile segments treated with or without IAA. IAA (10(-5) M) stimulated the gene expression of EI, while it did not affect that of ExoII. IAA induced gene expression of EI after 4 h and increased wall-bound glucanase activity after 8 h. The molecular weight distribution of hemicellulosic polysaccharides from coleoptile cell walls was shifted to lower molecular weight region by 2 h of IAA treatment. Fusicoccin (10(-6) M) mimicked IAA-induced elongation growth and the decrease in molecular weight of hemicellulosic 1,3:1,4-beta-glucan of coleoptiles in the first 4 h, but it did not promote elongation growth thereafter. These facts suggest that acidification of barley cell walls by IAA action enhances pre-existing cell wall-bound glucanase activity in the early first phase of IAA-induced growth and the late second phase involves the gene expression of EI by IAA.
Hydroponically cultivated barley plants were exposed to nitrogen (N)-deficiency followed by N-resupply. Metabolic and genetic regulation of fructan accumulation in the leaves were investigated. Fructan accumulated in barley leaves under N-deficiency was mobilized during N-resupply. The enhanced total activity of fructan-synthesizing enzymes, sucrose:sucrose 1-fructosyltransferase (EC 2.4.1.99) and sucrose:fructan 6-fructosyltransferase (6-SFT; EC 2.4. 1.10) caused by N-deficiency decreased with the mobilization of fructan during N-resupply. The activity of the barley fructan-degrading enzyme, fructan exohydrolyase (EC 3.2.1.80) was less affected by the N status. The low level of foliar soluble acid invertase activity under N-deficiency conditions was maintained during the commencement of N-resupply but increased subsequently. Further analyses by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, western blot and northern blot demonstrated that the fructan accumulation and the total activity of fructan-synthesizing enzymes correlated with the 6-SFT mRNA level. We suggest that the changes in fructan levels under N stress are intimately connected with the regulation of fructan synthetic rate which is mostly controlled by 6-SFT.
The IPTG-inducible expression vector containing the BYDV GAV coat protein gene was constructed and transferred into E. coli BL21(DE3). High-level expression of the specific protein was achieved by IPTG induction. The results of SDS-PAGE and Western blotting show that the expression product which accumulates 19.5% of the total cellular proteins estimated by scanning is 24 kD BYDV GAV coat protein plus eleven amino acids of pET-5a.
We provide evidence for involvement of two different 45 kDa protein kinases in rehydration and germination of barley embryos. In dry embryos, a myelin basic protein (MBP) phosphorylating kinase was detected, which could be immunoprecipitated with an anti-MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) antibody. Rehydration of the embryo induced a decrease in activity of this 45 kDa MAPK-like protein kinase. In addition, activity of a MBP kinase of the same molecular weight was subsequently found to be induced. This second MBP kinase activity could not be immunoprecipitated with the anti-MAPK antibody and was induced only in germinating embryos, not in dormant embryos.
Nicotiana tabacum plants were transformed with the cDNA of barley trypsin inhibitor BTI-CMe under the control of the 35S CaMV promoter. Although the transgene was expressed and the protein was active in the homozygous lines selected, growth of Spodoptera exigua (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) larvae reared on transgenic plants was not affected. The protease activity in larval midgut extracts after 2 days feeding on transformed tobacco leaves from the highest expressing plant showed a reduction of 25% in the trypsin-like activity compared to that from insects fed on non-transformed controls. The susceptibility of digestive serine-proteases to inhibition by BTI-CMe was confirmed by activity staining gels. This decrease was compensated with a significant induction of leucine aminopeptidase-like and carboxipeptidase A-like activities, while chymotrypsin-, elastase-, and carboxipeptidase B-like proteases were not affected.
The effects of methyl jasmonate (JA-Me) on early light-inducible protein (ELIP) expression in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Apex) have been studied. Treatment of leaf segments with JA-Me induces the same symptoms as those exhibited by norflurazon bleaching, including a loss of pigments and enhanced light stress that results in increased ELIP expression under both high- and low-light conditions. The expression of both low- and high-molecular-mass ELIP families is considerably down-regulated by JA-Me at the transcript and protein levels. This repression occurs despite increased photoinhibition measurable as a massive degradation of D1 protein and a delayed recovery of photosystem II activity. In JA-Me-treated leaf segments, the decrease of the photochemical efficiency of photosystem II under high light is substantially more pronounced as compared to controls in water. The repression of ELIP expression by JA-Me is superimposed on the effect of the increased light stress that leads to enhanced ELIP expression. The fact that the reduction of ELIP transcript levels is less pronounced than those of light-harvesting complex II and small subunit of Rubisco transcripts indicates that light stress is still affecting gene expression in the presence of JA-Me. The jasmonate-induced protein transcript levels that are induced by JA-Me decline under light stress conditions.
The expression of alpha-amylase in aleurone layers of barley is known to be induced by gibberellin A3 (GA). In the present study, gibbestatin B (GNB) was isolated from Streptomyces sp. C-39 as an inhibitor of the GA-induced expression of alpha-amylase in barley and rice, with IC50 values of 125 and 70 microM, respectively. GNB suppressed accumulation of GA-induced barley high-pI type B and rice RAmylA alpha-amylase transcripts. However, GNB showed no inhibitory activity on GUS expression in transgenic tobacco harboring the auxin-inducible par B promoter:: GUS fusion gene. The transcription of an abscisic acid (ABA)-inducible gene, HVA1, was unaffected by GNB. In addition, GNB prevented aleurone cells from cell death induced by GA. In tobacco and Arabidopsis plants, GNB suppressed the germination and retarded the growth of seedlings without toxicity. The growth of gai, spy and abi mutants was also retarded by GNB. Normal plants treated with GA-biosynthesis inhibitors and GA-defective and GA-signaling mutants normally have dwarf dark green leaves. However, dwarfed healthy green leaves were observed in normal plants treated with GNB. GA-induced stem elongation of plants was also detected in the presence of GNB. These analyses indicate that GNB inhibits the GA-induced expression of alpha-amylase by regulating one of the steps involved in ABA signaling, but not by acting as a weak ABA analog.
Dehydrins (DHNs; LEA D11) are one of the typical families of plant proteins that accumulate in response to dehydration, low temperature, osmotic stress or treatment with abscisic acid (ABA), or during seed maturation. We previously found that three genes encoding low-molecular-weight DHNs (Dhn1, Dhn2 and Dhn9) map within a 15-cM region of barley chromosome 5H that overlaps a QTL for winterhardiness, while other Dhn genes encoding low- and high-molecular-weight DHNs are located on chromosomes 3H, 4H and 6H. Here we examine the expression of specific Dhn genes under conditions associated with expression of the winterhardiness phenotype. Plants grown at 4 degrees C or in the field in Riverside, California developed similar, modest levels of freezing tolerance, coinciding with little low-MW Dhn gene activity. Dicktoo (the more tolerant cultivar) and Morex (the less tolerant) grown in Saskatoon, Canada expressed higher levels of expression of genes for low-MW DHNs than did the same cultivars in Riverside, with expression being higher in Dicktoo than Morex. Dehydration or freeze-thaw also evoked expression of genes for low MW DHNs, suggesting that the dehydration component of freeze-thaw in the field induces low expression of genes encoding low-MW DHNs. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that the major chilling-induced DHNs help to prime plant cells for acclimation to more intense cold, which then involves adaptation to dehydration during freeze-thaw cycling. A role for chromosome 5H-encoded DHNs in acclimation to more intense cold seems possible, even though it is not the basis of the major heritable variation in winterhardiness within the Dicktoo x Morex population.
Phosphate (P) is taken up by plants through high-affinity P transporter proteins embedded in the plasma membrane of certain cell types in plant roots. Expression of the genes that encode these transporters responds to the P status of the plants, and their transcription is normally tightly controlled. However, this tight control of P uptake is lost under Zn deficiency, leading to very high accumulation of P in plants. We examined the effect of plant Zn status on the expression of the genes encoding the HVPT1 and HVPT2 high-affinity P transporters in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Weeah) roots. The results show that the expression of these genes is intimately linked to the Zn status of the plants. Zn deficiency induced the expression of genes encoding these P transporters in plants grown in either P-sufficient or -deficient conditions. Moreover, the role of Zn in the regulation of these genes is specific in that it cannot be replaced by manganese (a divalent cation similar to Zn). It appears that Zn plays a specific role in the signal transduction pathway responsible for the regulation of genes encoding high-affinity P transporters in plant roots. The significance of Zn involvement in the regulation of genes involved in P uptake is discussed.
Plant cell elongation depends on the physical properties of the primary cell wall. Because xyloglucan endotransglycosylases (XETs) are enzymes that mediate cleavage and rejoining of the beta(1-4)-XG backbone of primary cell wall, they are potentially involved in cell elongation. In this paper, the growth of the barley coleoptile was related to the expression patterns of two genes from this family (hvEXT, hvXEB) in experiments where coleoptile elongation varied according to light/dark treatments in order to assess the potential role of these genes in cell elongation. In dark-grown and light-grown coleoptiles, growth rate variations were associated with altered levels of expression of hvEXT and hvXEB: they were higher in dark-grown than in light-grown seedlings, and decreased after 5 d in darkness, and after 4 d in continuous light. In 4-d-old seedlings, coleoptile elongation decreased significantly 4 h after the onset of a continuous white- light irradiation, and hvXEB and hvEXT mRNA levels decreased, respectively, 2 h and 4 h after the onset of white-light irradiation. Moreover, the distribution of hvXEB and hvEXT along the coleoptiles of 4-d-old dark-grown seedlings were different. Altogether, these results suggest a complex pattern of temporal and positional expression for the different genes of the XET-related family.
The occurrence of two enzymes performing de-N-glycosylation of glycoproteins, namely, endo-N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (ENGase, EC 3.2.1.96) and peptide-N(4)-(N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminyl) asparagine amidase (PNGase, EC 3.5.1.52) was investigated in barley, cv. Plaisant (a winter six rowed variety). The dry grain showed both activities according to the HPLC detection of the hydrolysis of fluorescent resorufin-labelled substrates. However, PNGase activity was 16-fold higher than ENGase activity. During germination, both activities increased, PNGase by only 1.5-fold compared to nearly 4.8-fold for ENGase over the 4 d following imbibition. The localization of these activities within the grain showed that the major contribution of PNGase was due to the endosperm, typically representing over 90% of the whole grain activity. In contrast, ENGase activity was especially high in the embryo and, later, in the developing plantlet (10-fold higher than in the endosperm), particularly in the rootlets and scutellum. In developing spikes, PNGase activity was 5.6-fold higher than in the leaves, but similar ENGase activity was measured in both organs. During grain formation, PNGase activity followed dry matter increase together with endosperm development. In contrast, ENGase activity dropped by 66% at the beginning of grain filling before stabilizing until harvest. The occurrence of de-N-glycosylation-performing enzymes throughout the development of barley raises the question of the nature of their natural substrates. Moreover, the prevalence of one of these enzymes over the other depending on the organ and the developmental stage, could represent the first evidence of specific functions for each enzyme.
The plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) mediates many vital processes in plant growth and development, including seed dormancy, cell division, water use efficiency, and adaptation to drought, salinity, chilling, pathogen attack, and UV light. Our understanding of ABA signal transduction is fragmentary and would benefit from specific and facile probes of the process. Protoplasts from rice (Oryza sativa L. cv IR54) embryonic suspension cultures cotransformed with effector plasmids encoding the maize (Zea mays) VIVIPAROUS1 cDNA and/or the Arabidopsis dominant negative mutant (abi1-1) ABA-insensitive cDNA demonstrated genetic interactions of VIVIPAROUS1 and abi1-1 in transactivation of the ABA-inducible HVA1 promoter from barley (Hordeum vulgare), suggesting the mechanisms of these effectors are conserved among monocots and dicots. Trivalent ions have been shown to act as an effector of gene expression in plants and animals, although the mechanism of action is unknown. We show in two complementary transient ABA-inducible gene expression assays (beta-glucuronidase and luciferase enzymatic activities and quantitative flow cytometry of green fluorescent protein) that trivalent ions specifically interact with an ABI1-dependent ABA-signaling pathway leading to gene expression. Trivalent ions mimic ABA effects on gene expression and may be a useful tool to study ABA signaling.
Organisms with large genomes contain vast amounts of repetitive DNA sequences, much of which is composed of retrotransposons. Amplification of retrotransposons has been postulated to be a major mechanism increasing genome size and leading to "genomic obesity." To gain insights into the relation between retrotransposons and genome expansion in a large genome, we have studied a 66-kb contiguous sequence at the Rar1 locus of barley in detail. Three genes were identified in the 66-kb contig, clustered within an interval of 18 kb. Inspection of sequences flanking the gene space unveiled four novel retroelements, designated Nikita, Sukkula, Sabrina, and BAGY-2 and several units of the known BARE-1 element. The retroelements identified are responsible for at least 15 integration events, predominantly arranged as multiple nested insertions. Strikingly, most of the retroelements exist as solo LTRs (Long Terminal Repeats), indicating that unequal crossing over and/or intrachromosomal recombination between LTRs is a common feature in barley. Our data suggest that intraelement recombination events deleted most of the original retrotransposon sequences, thereby providing a possible mechanism to counteract retroelement-driven genome expansion.
Six MADS-box cDNA clones were isolated by heterologous screening from a barley inflorescence cDNA library. Based on sequence comparison to known MADS-box genes, the barley MADS-box (BM) genes were grouped into three distinct phylogenetic subclasses of the MADS-box gene family. The three MADS-box genes BM3, BM5 and BM8 share similarities with genes of the SQUAMOSA (SQUA) subgroup, while BM7 and BM9 belong to the AGAMOUS-LIKE 2 (AGL2) subgroup. BM1 resembles MADS-box genes described as solitary sequences or orphan genes. Expression analysis of the barley MADS-box genes revealed expression patterns that are not characteristic of the barley MADS-box genes of the SQUA subgroup. while expression of BM7 and BM9 was largely as expected for the AGL2 subgroup. BM1 is mainly expressed in vegetative tissues and its primary transcript undergoes alternative splicing such that the corresponding mRNAs differ by two codons. The genes BM1, BM3 and BM8 were mapped by analysis of single-nucleotide polymorphisms onto barley chromosomes 4, 2 and 7, respectively.
The aim of this study was to investigate the sugar-sensing processes modulating the expression of alpha-amylase in barley (Hordeum vulgaris L. var Himalaya) embryos. The results highlight the existence of independent glucose (Glc) and disaccharides sensing. Glc treatment destabilizes the alpha-amylase mRNA. Non-metabolizable disaccharides repress alpha-amylase induction, but have no effects on transcript stability. Structure-function analysis indicates that a fructose (Fru) moiety is needed for disaccharide sensing. Lactulose (beta-galactose [Gal][1-->4]Fru), palatinose (Glc[1-->6]Fru), and turanose (Glc[1-->3]Fru) are not metabolized but repress alpha-amylase. Disrupting the fructosyl moiety of lactulose and palatinose, or replacing the Fru moiety of beta-Gal[1-->4]Fru with Glc or Gal results in molecules unable to repress alpha-amylase. Comparison of the molecular requirements for sucrose transport with those for disaccharide sensing suggests that these sugars are perceived possibly at the plasma membrane level independently from sucrose transport.
This study was conducted to detect the optimum conditions for DNA transfer into mature embryos of barley via electroporation. Cultured mature embryos of barley were directly electroporated in the presence of the pBI 121 vector carrying both the β-glucuronidase (GUS) and neomycin phosphotransferase II (npt II) genes. It was found that 500 v/cm and 500 μFd capacitance was the optimum combination for healthy germination of the transformed plants from mature electroporated embryos. Effects of culture duration before electroporation and selection antibiotic concentrations on germination were also examined. Gene transfer performed on 3-day-old cultures resulted in the highest germination frequencies. GUS expression was observed on transversal sections of embryos and mature leaves from 3 month-old regenerants. PCR and Southern blot analyses show the presence of the npt II transgene in the genome of a plant.
Barley zygote protoplasts were mechanically isolated, embedded in agarose droplets, and microinjected with a rice actin promoter Act1-gusA-nos gene construct. On average 62% of the cells survived the injection and of these 55% continued development into embryo-like structures and eventually to plants. PCR screening for the presence of a 307-bp fragment in the middle of the gusA gene showed that on average 21% of the derived structures contained this fragment. However, among the hundreds of injected zygotes, derived structures and regenerants we only found significant GUS expression in two cases (embryo-like structures nine days after injection). Two lines of green plants, derived from zygotes microinjected with linearized plasmid (line A147-1) or an isolated Act1-gusA-nos gene cassette (line A166-h) proved to be transgenic. Line A147-1 appeared to contain a single and intact copy of the expression cassette but a PCR based progeny analysis indicated the presence of additional shorter fragments of the cassette. Line A166-h appeared to contain a single fragment of the gusA gene that was transferred to the progeny as a single Mendelian trait. One additional fragment of the gusA gene was identified in this line. The present data show that transformation of barley by microinjection of DNA into isolated zygotes is feasible but also that gene expression rarely is achieved, possibly due to degradation of the introduced DNA.
Numerous RNA viruses generate subgenomic mRNAs (sgRNAs) for expression of their 3'-proximal genes. A major step in control of viral gene expression is the regulation of sgRNA synthesis by specific promoter elements. We used barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) as a model system to study transcriptional control in a virus with multiple sgRNAs. BYDV generates three sgRNAs during infection. The sgRNA1 promoter has been mapped previously to a 98-nucleotide (nt) region which forms two stem-loop structures. It was determined that sgRNA1 is not required for BYDV RNA replication in oat protoplasts. In this study, we show that neither sgRNA2 nor sgRNA3 is required for BYDV RNA replication. The promoters for sgRNA2 and sgRNA3 synthesis were mapped by using deletion mutagenesis. The minimal sgRNA2 promoter is approximately 143 nt long (nt 4810 to 4952) and is located immediately downstream of the putative sgRNA2 start site (nt 4809). The minimal sgRNA3 core promoter is 44 nt long (nt 5345 to 5388), with most of the sequence located downstream of sgRNA3 start site (nt 5348). For both promoters, additional sequences upstream of the start site enhanced sgRNA promoter activity. These promoters contrast to the sgRNA1 promoter, in which almost all of the promoter is located upstream of the transcription initiation site. Comparison of RNA sequences and computer-predicted secondary structures revealed little or no homology between the three sgRNA promoter elements. Thus, a small RNA virus with multiple sgRNAs can have very different subgenomic promoters, which implies a complex system for promoter recognition and regulation of subgenomic RNA synthesis.
A beta-1,3-glucanase gene from Hordeum vulgare was isolated by a PCR strategy, cloned and subsequently sequenced. The amplified sequence contained the entire coding region of the isoenzyme II, which is interrupted by a 165 bp intron at 73 bp downstream the starting codon. This intron contains all the elements required for the processing mechanism in monocots: a high A + U content, the appropriate splice sites in the 5' and 3' ends and four typical YUNAN consensus sequences. Transient transformation of wheat protoplasts with the complete beta-1,3-glucanase gene under the control of maize polyubiquitin promoter revealed that the intron sequence was spliced out. The gene was also expressed at high levels, probably due to an enhancer-like sequence found near the 3' end of the intron.
The promoterless maize ubiquitin first exon and intron fragment can drive gusA expression in immature tritordeum inflorescences and immature wheat scutella. In fluorescence assays, this fragment induces gusA expression in tritordeum inflorescences to 50 times higher than background. The activity of the complete promoter, exon and intron cassette was up to 20000-fold higher than background but the maize ubiquitin promoter in isolation had very low activity. A construct with the maize alcohol dehydrogenase first exon and intron had low activity, visible in histochemical assays. Both intron sequences have promoter-like features and in the ubiquitin intron there is a sequence homologous to the opaque-2-binding box. We suggest that the combination of these elements may explain the promoter activity detected in these introns.
To investigate the regulation of HvNRT2, genes that encode high-affinity NO(3)(-) transporters in barley (Hordeum vulgare) roots, seedlings were treated with 10 mM NO(3)(-) in the presence or absence of amino acids (aspartate, asparagine, glutamate [Glu], and glutamine [Gln]), NH(4)(+), and/or inhibitors of N assimilation. Although all amino acids decreased high-affinity (13)NO(3)(-) influx and HvNRT2 transcript abundance, there was substantial interconversion of administered amino acids, making it impossible to determine which amino acid(s) were responsible for the observed effects. To clarify the role of individual amino acids, plants were separately treated with tungstate, methionine sulfoximine, or azaserine (inhibitors of nitrate reductase, Gln synthetase, and Glu synthase, respectively). Tungstate increased the HvNRT2 transcript by 20% to 30% and decreased NO(3)(-) influx by 50%, indicating that NO(3)(-) itself does not regulate transcript abundance, but may exert post-transcriptional effects. Experiments with methionine sulfoximine suggested that NH(4)(+) may down-regulate HvNRT2 gene expression and high-affinity NO(3)(-) influx by effects operating at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. Azaserine decreased HvNRT2 transcript levels and NO(3)(-) influx by 97% and 95%, respectively, while decreasing Glu and increasing Gln levels. This suggests that Gln (and not Glu) is responsible for down-regulating HvNRT2 expression, although it does not preclude a contributory effect of other amino acids.
High-isoelectric-point (pI) alpha-glucosidase was purified 7, 300-fold from an extract of barley (Hordeum vulgare) malt by ammonium sulfate fractionation, ion-exchange, and butyl-Sepharose chromatography. The enzyme had high activity toward maltose (k(cat) = 25 s(-1)), with an optimum at pH 4.5, and catalyzed the hydrolysis by a retaining mechanism, as shown by nuclear magnetic resonance. Acarbose was a strong inhibitor (K(i) = 1.5 microM). Molecular recognition revealed that all OH-groups in the non-reducing ring and OH-3 in the reducing ring of maltose formed important hydrogen bonds to the enzyme in the transition state complex. Mass spectrometry of tryptic fragments assigned the 92-kD protein to a barley cDNA (GenBank accession no. U22450) that appears to encode an alpha-glucosidase. A corresponding sequence (HvAgl97; GenBank accession no. AF118226) was isolated from a genomic phage library using a cDNA fragment from a barley cDNA library. HvAgl97 encodes a putative 96.6-kD protein of 879 amino acids with 93.8% identity to the protein deduced from U22450. The sequence contains two active site motifs of glycoside hydrolase family 31. Three introns of 86 to 4,286 bp interrupt the coding region. The four exons vary from 218 to 1,529 bp. Gene expression analysis showed that transcription reached a maximum 48 h after the start of germination.
Previous work has indicated that sugar sensing may be important in the regulation of fructan biosynthesis in grasses. We used primary leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare cv Baraka) to study the mechanisms involved. Excised leaf blades were supplied in the dark with various carbohydrates. Fructan pool sizes and two key enzymes of fructan biosynthesis, sucrose (Suc):Suc-1-fructosyltransferase (1-SST; EC 2. 4.1.99) and Suc:fructan-6-fructosyltransferase (6-SFT; EC 2.4.1.10) were analyzed. Upon supply of Suc, fructan pool sizes increased markedly. Within 24 h, 1-SST activity was stimulated by a factor of three and 6-SFT-activity by a factor of more than 20, compared with control leaves supplemented with mannitol (Mit). At the same time, the level of mRNA encoding 6-SFT increased conspicuously. These effects were increased in the presence of the invertase inhibitor 2, 5-dideoxy-2,5-imino-D-mannitol. Compared with equimolar solutions of Suc, glucose (Glu) and fructose stimulated 6-SFT activity to a lesser extent. Remarkably, trehalose (Tre; Glc-alpha-1 and 1-alpha-Glc) had stimulatory effects on 6-SFT activity and, to a somewhat lesser extent, on 6-SFT mRNA, even in the presence of validoxylamine A, a potent trehalase inhibitor. Tre by itself, however, in the presence or absence of validoxylamine A, did not stimulate fructan accumulation. Monosaccharides phosphorylated by hexokinase but not or weakly metabolized, such as mannose (Man) or 2-deoxy-Glc, had no stimulatory effects on fructan synthesis. When fructose or Man were supplied together with Tre, fructan and starch biosynthesis were strongly stimulated. Concomitantly, phospho-Man isomerase (EC 5.3.1.8) activity was detected. These results indicate that the regulation of fructan synthesis in barley leaves occurs independently of hexokinase and is probably based on the sensing of Suc, and also that the structurally related disaccharide Tre can replace Suc as a regulatory compound.
Stress-induced gene expression in barley (Hordeum vulgare cv Salome) leaves has been correlated with temporally changing levels of octadecanoids and jasmonates, quantified by means of gas chromatography/mass spectrometry-single ion monitoring. Application of sorbitol-induced stress led to a low and transient rise of jasmonic acid (JA), its precursor 12-oxophytodienoic acid (OPDA), and the methyl esters JAME and OPDAME, respectively, followed by a large increase in their levels. JA and JAME peaked between 12 and 16 h, about 4 h before OPDA and OPDAME. However, OPDA accumulated up to a 2.5-fold higher level than the other compounds. Dihomo-JA and 9, 13-didehydro-OPDA were identified as minor components. Kinetic analyses revealed that a transient threshold of jasmonates or octadecanoids is necessary and sufficient to initiate JA-responsive gene expression. Although OPDA and OPDAME applied exogenously were metabolized to JA in considerable amounts, both of them can induce gene expression, as evidenced by those genes that did not respond to endogenously formed JA. Also, coronatine induces JA-responsive genes independently from endogenous JA. Application of deuterated JA showed that endogenous synthesis of JA is not induced by JA treatment. The data are discussed in terms of distinct signaling pathways.
Glucose effects on the expression of the abscisic acid-inducible Rab16A gene were examined in rice and barley embryos. Glucose feeding to rice embryos negatively affects the endogenous abscisic acid content and represses the promoter activity of the Rab16A gene. Glucose repression of the Rab16A gene takes place both at a transcriptional and a post-transcriptional level. Modulation of the abscisic acid content in rice embryos triggered by glucose did not directly influence the expression of the rice alpha-amylase gene RAmy3D, which is known to be under glucose control. The possible interaction between the glucose and abscisic acid signaling pathway is discussed.
A group of frequent cDNA clones from a young-leaf cDNA library was found to code for a homologue of S-ribonucleases (S-RNases) involved in gametophytic incompatibility and the so-called S-like RNases active in flowers and in vegetative tissues. The derived amino acid sequence starts with a signal peptide and has a 27-amino-acid C-terminal extension of unknown function. The barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) gene, rsh1 (for RNase S-like homologue) corresponding to the cDNA clones was isolated. The gene has three introns and the position of one intron corresponds to the site of the single, small intron in the S-RNase genes. The deduced amino acid sequence of mature RSH1 shares 35% identical and 58% similar amino acid residues with an S-like RNase from tomato, RNase LE. However, two active-site histidine residues, conserved between all S and S-like RNases are replaced by serine residues in RSH1. The new barley RNase S-like homologue is clearly related to the family of active RNases but is probably not active as an RNase. Sequences from the same class of presumably inactive RNases have been recorded in maize, rice and sorghum. The barley gene is exclusively expressed in young leaf tissue and is substantially induced by light.
Dysfunction and downregulation of dad (defending against death) has been linked to programmed cell death (PCD) in animals and plants. As DAD is an essential subunit of the oligosaccharyltransferase that is located in the ER membrane, the results have raised the possibility that downregulation of N-linked glycosylation could be involved in the regulation of PCD. Here we show that the 16 kDa subunit of phytepsin, a vacuolar proteinase, is normally processed and glycosylated at the onset of DNA fragmentation in germinating barley scutella. Two cDNA clones encoding dad (dad1, dad2), and one cDNA encoding another subunit of the same oligosaccharyltransferase complex (ost1) were isolated from barley. Northern analysis of germinating scutella show that the expression of only dad1 is declining before onset of DNA fragmentation. In contrast to this, the expression of both dad2 and ost1 increase before onset of DNA fragmentation.
A cDNA corresponding to 1-Cys peroxiredoxin, an evolutionarily conserved thiol-specific antioxidant enzyme, was isolated from buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum Moench), a dicotyledonous plant species belonging to the Polygonaceae family. The cDNA, which we have designated as FePer1, contains a major open reading frame capable of encoding a polypeptide of 219 residues with a predicted molecular mass of 24.3kDa. The deduced primary structure of FePer1 polypeptide shows a high level (about 70%) of sequence homology to other recently identified plant 1-Cys peroxiredoxins. FePer1 also exhibits a significant level of sequence similarity to non-plant 1-Cys peroxiredoxins, sharing 52 and 42% identities with mammalian and fungal 1-Cys peroxiredoxins, respectively. As for all 1-Cys peroxiredoxins identified from various organisms, the amino acid sequence proposed to constitute the active site of the enzyme is highly conserved in FePer1 polypeptide. The gene corresponding to FePer1 cDNA is a single-copy gene in the buckwheat genome. Its expression is regulated in a seed-specific and temporal manner during seed development. FePer1 gene is induced transiently for a short period immediately after seed imbibition.
In order to understand sucrose transport in developing seeds of cereals at the molecular level, we cloned from a caryopses library two cDNAs encoding sucrose transporters, designated HvSUT1 and HvSUT2. Sucrose uptake activity was confirmed by heterologous expression in yeast. Both transporter genes are expressed in maternal as well as filial tissues. In a series of in situ hybridizations we analysed the cell type-specific expression in developing seeds. HvSUT1 is preferentially expressed in caryopses in the cells of the nucellar projection and the endospermal transfer layer, which represent the sites of sucrose exchange between the maternal and the filial generation and are characterized by transfer cell formation. HvSUT2 is expressed in all sink and source tissues analysed and may have a general housekeeping role. The rapid induction of HvSUT1 gene expression in caryopses at approximately 5-6 days after fertilization coincides with increasing levels of sucrose as well as sucrose synthase mRNA and activity, and occurs immediately before the onset of rapid starch accumulation within the endosperm. Starch biosynthesis requires sucrose to be imported into the endosperm, as direct precursor for starch synthesis and to promote storage-associated processes. We discuss the possible role of HvSUT1 as a control element for the endospermal sucrose concentration.
Allene oxide synthase (AOS) is the first enzyme in the lipoxygenase (LOX) pathway which leads to formation of jasmonic acid (JA). Two full-length cDNAs of AOS designated as AOS1 and AOS2, respectively, were isolated from barley (H. vulgare cv. Salome) leaves, which represent the first AOS clones from a monocotyledonous species. For AOS1, the open reading frame encompasses 1461 bp encoding a polypeptide of 487 amino acids with calculated molecular mass of 53.4 kDa and an isoelectric point of 9.3, whereas the corresponding data of AOS2 are 1443 bp, 480 amino acids, 52.7 kDa and 7.9. Southern blot analysis revealed at least two genes. Despite the lack of a putative chloroplast signal peptide in both sequences, the protein co-purified with chloroplasts and was localized within chloroplasts by immunocytochemical analysis. The barley AOSs, expressed in bacteria as active enzymes, catalyze the dehydration of LOX-derived 9- as well as 13-hydroperoxides of polyenoic fatty acids to the unstable allene oxides. In leaves, AOS mRNA accumulated upon treatment with jasmonates, octadecanoids and metabolizable carbohydrates, but not upon floating on abscisic acid, NaCl, Na-salicylate or infection with powdery mildew. In developing seedlings, AOS mRNA strongly accumulated in the scutellar nodule, but less in the leaf base. Both tissues exhibited elevated JA levels. In situ hybridizations revealed the preferential occurrence of AOS mRNA in parenchymatic cells surrounding the vascular bundles of the scutellar nodule and in the young convoluted leaves as well as within the first internode. The properties of both barley AOSs, their up-regulation of their mRNAs and their tissue specific expression suggest a role during seedling development and jasmonate biosynthesis.
Red chlorophyll catabolite (RCC) reductase (RCCR) and pheophorbide (Pheide) a oxygenase (PaO) catalyse the key reaction of chlorophyll catabolism, porphyrin macrocycle cleavage of Pheide a to a primary fluorescent catabolite (pFCC). RCCR was purified from barley and a partial gene sequence was cloned (pHvRCCR). The gene was expressed at all stages of leaf development and in roots. By comparison with different databases, genomic sequences and expressed sequence tags similar to RCCR were found in phylogenetically diverse species, and activity of RCCR was demonstrated in two of them, Arabidopsis thaliana and Marchantia polymorpha. The gene of A. thaliana (AtRCCR) was employed for molecular cloning, heterologous expression and the production of polyclonal antibodies. With recombinant RCCR, the major product of RCC reduction was pFCC-1, but small quantities of its C1 epimer, pFCC-2, also accumulated. The reaction required reduced ferredoxin and was sensitive to oxygen. AtRCCR encoded a 35 kDa protein which was used for chloroplast import experiments. Upon transport, it was processed to a mature form of 31 kDa. The significance of cloning of RCCR is discussed in respect to the evolution of chlorophyll catabolism and to the cloning of PaO.
To study functions of late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins, which accumulate in plant cells under water deficit conditions, in vivo functional analyses were carried out using a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) heterologous expression system. Two lea genes, tomato le4 (group 2) and barley HVA1 (group 3), were expressed under the GAL1 promoter, and the gene products were detected using specific antisera. The growth of the transformants was scored and compared with a control strain to analyze the effect of these proteins on yeast cells under stress conditions. The yeast cells expressing HVA1 showed shorter lag period when transferred to a medium containing 1.2 M NaCl as compared to a control strain, while the cells expressing le4 did not show improved growth. Attenuated growth inhibition in a medium containing 1.2 M KCl was observed in the yeast cells expressing le4 and HVA1. No obvious growth improvement was observed in a high sorbitol medium in the cells expressing either le4 or HVA1. Increased freezing tolerance was observed in both lea-expressing cells, while no effect on heat tolerance was observed. These results support the hypothesis that different LEA proteins play a distinctive role in the protection against cellular dehydration.
Research was done on dormant and non-dormant barley cv. Ars caryopses and triticale cv. Grado caryopses treated and non-treated with abscisic acid (ABA). During germination higher participation of populations of so-called tightly-bound polysomes (TBP) in embryos of dormant barley caryopses was observed, as well as their high metabolic activity. In embryos of triticale caryopses of which dormancy was imposed in an artificial way by ABA (100 microM), the strongest incorporation of 14C-amino acids into nascent polypeptide chains in vivo was found in population of TBP, as well as the highest participation among three of the studied fractions (free polysomes, membrane-bound polysomes and tightly-bound polysomes). These results may indicate the significant role of TBP (putative cytoskeleton-bound polysomes--CBP) in maintaining dormancy during imbibition of cereal caryopses.
The malting quality of two barley cultivars, Kymppi and Golden Promise, was modified to better meet the requirements of the brewing process. The egl1 gene, coding for fungal thermotolerant endo-1,4-beta-glucanase (EGI, cellulase), was transferred to the cultivars using particle bombardment, and transgenic plants were regenerated on bialaphos selection. Integration of the egl1 gene was confirmed by Southern blot hybridization. The transgenic seeds were screened for the expression of the heterologous EGI. Under the high-pI alpha-amylase promoter, the egl1 gene was expressed during germination. The heterologous enzyme was thermotolerant at 65 degrees C for 2 h, thus being suitable for mashing conditions. The amount of heterologous EGI produced by the seeds (ca. 0.025% of soluble seed protein), has been shown to be sufficient to reduce wort viscosity by decreasing the soluble beta-glucan content. A decrease in the soluble beta-glucan content in the wort improves the filtration rate of beer.
The grain of the self-pollinating diploid barley species offers two modes of producing recombinant enzymes or other proteins. One uses the promoters of genes with aleurone-specific expression during germination and the signal peptide code for export of the protein into the endosperm. The other uses promoters of the structural genes for storage proteins deposited in the developing endosperm. Production of a protein-engineered thermotolerant (1, 3-1, 4)-beta-glucanase with the D hordein gene (Hor3-1) promoter during endosperm development was analyzed in transgenic plants with four different constructs. High expression of the enzyme and its activity in the endosperm of the mature grain required codon optimization to a C+G content of 63% and synthesis as a precursor with a signal peptide for transport through the endoplasmic reticulum and targeting into the storage vacuoles. Synthesis of the recombinant enzyme in the aleurone of germinating transgenic grain with an alpha-amylase promoter and the code for the export signal peptide yielded approximately 1 microgram small middle dotmg(-1) soluble protein, whereas 54 microgram small middle dotmg(-1) soluble protein was produced on average in the maturing grain of 10 transgenic lines with the vector containing the gene for the (1, 3-1, 4)-beta-glucanase under the control of the Hor3-1 promoter.
Barley powdery mildew, Erysiphe graminis f.sp. hordei, is an obligate biotrophic pathogen and as such cannot complete its life cycle without a living host. The inability to transform this fungus and manipulate its genome has constrained research towards understanding its life cycle and pathogenicity. Here we describe an in planta transformation system based on delivery of DNA using a gold-particle gun and selection using benomyl or bialaphos. Using this method, we consistently obtained stable transformants with efficiencies comparable to other filamentous fungi. Stable expression of the beta-glucuronidase in E. graminis was demonstrated by co-transforming the uidA gene with the selectable markers.
The growth activity of Pseudomonas putida cells colonizing the rhizosphere of barley seedlings was estimated at the single-cell level by monitoring ribosomal contents and synthesis rates. Ribosomal synthesis was monitored by using a system comprising a fusion of the ribosomal Escherichia coli rrnBP1 promoter to a gene encoding an unstable variant of the green fluorescent protein (Gfp). Gfp expression in a P. putida strain carrying this system inserted into the chromosome was strongly dependent on the growth phase and growth rate of the strain, and cells growing exponentially at rates of > or = 0.17 h(-1) emitted growth rate-dependent green fluorescence detectable at the single-cell level. The single-cell ribosomal contents were very heterogeneous, as determined by quantitative hybridization with fluorescently labeled rRNA probes in P. putida cells extracted from the rhizosphere of 1-day-old barley seedlings grown under sterile conditions. After this, cells extracted from the root system had ribosomal contents similar to those found in starved cells. There was a significant decrease in the ribosomal content of P. putida cells when bacteria were introduced into nonsterile bulk or rhizosphere soil, and the Gfp monitoring system was not induced in cells extracted from either of the two soil systems. The monitoring system used permitted nondestructive in situ detection of fast-growing bacterial microcolonies on the sloughing root sheath cells of 1- and 2-day-old barley seedlings grown under sterile conditions, which demonstrated that it may be possible to use the unstable Gfp marker for studies of transient gene expression in plant-microbe systems.
Ectopic expression of the barley homeobox gene BKn-3 conditions the development of epiphyllous flowers by de novo meristem formation. Various strategies are being described in an effort to identify genes whose products interact with the BKn-3 gene product or BKn-3 regulatory regions.
alpha-Glucosidases (EC 3.2.1.20) are recognized as important in starch degradation during cereal seed germination. A barley (Hordeum vulgare) alpha-glucosidase expressed in Pichia pastoris was cultured in flasks; however, the yield was low necessitating the use of multiple batches. Problems arose because of significant variation between batches. We solved these problems by switching to a fermentation system producing a sufficient quantity of a uniform sample. Here we present the expression and purification of a recombinant alpha-glucosidase grown under fermentation conditions. We also present the results of experiments to characterize the thermostability, pH optimum, and substrate specificity of the recombinant enzyme. The optimal pH for the hydrolysis of maltose by recombinant alpha-glucosidase is between 3.5 and 4.5. The thermostability of recombinant alpha-glucosidase was determined at pH 4, where activity is optimal, and at pH 5 and 6, which better mimic the conditions used to convert barley starch to fermentable sugars during industrial processing. The results indicate the enzyme is most thermolabile at pH 4. However, the enzyme is protected from heat inactivation at pH 4 by high concentrations of sucrose. The purified enzyme hydrolyzed maltose three times more rapidly than nigerose and 20 times more rapidly than trehalose and isomaltose. Concentrations of maltose greater than 20 mM inhibited maltose hydrolysis. This is the first report of substrate inhibition for any alpha-glucosidase. The results indicate that the only significant difference between the recombinant enzyme and the previously characterized barley isoforms was the V(max) for maltose hydrolysis.
To gain insight into the molecular events occurring in the very early stages of barley microspore embryogenesis, cDNA clones corresponding to genes differentially expressed during the early stages of microspore culture were isolated and characterized. A cDNA library established from barley microspores cultured for three days was differentially screened against probes generated from freshly isolated microspores. Three cDNAs representing genes not previously identified in barley were isolated. ECA1 (early culture abundant 1) lacked significant homology to known genes or proteins, and the transcript was only expressed during the early stages of culture. Expression was also reduced in low-density control cultures, therefore this gene may play a role in the early stages of barley microspore embryogenesis. ECGST (early culture glutathione S-transferase) had homology to parA-like genes, which are members of a newly discovered group of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). The protein corresponding to ECGST may be important in protecting cells from oxidative stress during the culture process. ECLTP (early culture lipid transfer protein) had homology to lipid transfer proteins (LTPs), and had an expression pattern similar to that of an LTP known to be a marker of the early stages of embryogenesis in the carrot somatic embryogenesis system. The identification and characterization of the clones isolated in this study provides new information on the events involved in barley microspore embryogenesis.
Biochemically active wheat thioredoxin h has been overexpressed in the endosperm of transgenic barley grain. Two DNA constructs containing the wheat thioredoxin h gene (wtrxh) were used for transformation; each contained wtrxh fused to an endosperm-specific B(1)-hordein promoter either with or without a signal peptide sequence for targeting to the protein body. Twenty-two stable, independently transformed regenerable lines were obtained by selecting with the herbicide bialaphos to test for the presence of the bar herbicide resistance gene on a cotransformed plasmid; all were positive for this gene. The presence of wtrxh was confirmed in 20 lines by PCR analysis, and the identity and level of expression of wheat thioredoxin h was assessed by immunoblots. Although levels varied among the different transgenic events, wheat thioredoxin h was consistently highly expressed (up to 30-fold) in the transgenic grain. Transgenic lines transformed with the B(1)-hordein promoter with a signal peptide sequence produced a higher level of wheat thioredoxin h on average than those without a signal sequence. The overexpression of thioredoxin h in the endosperm of germinated grain effected up to a 4-fold increase in the activity of the starch debranching enzyme, pullulanase (limit dextrinase), the enzyme that specifically cleaves alpha-1,6 linkages in starch. These results raise the question of how thioredoxin h enhances the activity of pullulanase because it was found that the inhibitor had become inactive before the enzyme showed appreciable activity.
A cold-regulated gene (cor tmc-ap3) coding for a putative chloroplastic amino acid selective channel protein was isolated from cold-treated barley leaves combining the differential display and the 5'-RACE techniques. Cor tmc-ap3 is expressed at low level under normal growing temperature, and its expression is strongly enhanced after cold treatment. A positive correlation between the expression of cor tmc-ap3 and frost tolerance was found both among barley cultivars and among cereal species. The COR TMC-AP3 protein was expressed in vitro, purified and used to raise a polyclonal antibody. Western analysis showed that the cor tmc-ap3 gene product is localized to the chloroplastic outer envelope fraction, supporting its putative function. The frost-resistant winter cultivar Onice accumulated COR TMC-AP3 more rapidly and at a higher level than the frost-susceptible spring cultivar Gitane. After 28 days of cold acclimation the winter cultivar had about 2-fold more protein than the spring genotype. All these results suggest that an increased amount of a chloroplastic amino acid selective channel protein could be required for cold acclimation in cereals. Hypotheses about the role of COR TMC-AP3 during the hardening process are discussed.
Co-ordination of gene expression between the three genomes present in plastids, mitochondria and nucleus is of crucial importance for plant cells. Previous studies revealed that in white leaves of the albostrians (Hordeum vulgare cv. Haisa) mutant, photosynthesis-related plastid and nuclear genes are expressed only at an extremely low level. The plastids of this mutant lack ribosomes, photosynthetic activity and have only rudimentary membrane systems. Here we report on the expression of mitochondrial genes in albostrians barley. Steady-state RNA levels of the mitochondrial genes encoding cytochrome oxidase or ATPase subunits, coxII, coxIII, atpA, atp6, atp9 and cob, were observed to be consistently elevated in the white leaves but not in roots. Investigation of mitochondrial DNA revealed an about three-fold enhanced mitochondrial gene copy number in white compared to green leaf cells, but no differential amplification of mitochondrial genes. Analysis of plants in which the white albostrians plastids were combined with a new nuclear background showed that the enhanced transcript levels were a consequence of the impaired plastids and not of the nuclear albostrians allele. Furthermore, plants bleached by the carotenoid biosynthesis inhibitor norflurazon also showed an enhanced mitochondrial transcript level. These findings allow the conclusion that lack of chloroplast activity in an otherwise fully differentiated leaf leads to an increase in mitochondrial gene copy number and an elevated level of mitochondrial transcripts. Our results indicate an influence of plastids on the genetic apparatus of mitochondria in leaves but not in roots.
Barley Rar1 is a convergence point in the signaling of resistance to powdery mildew, triggered by multiple race-specific resistance (R) genes. Rar1 is shown to function upstream of H2O2 accumulation in attacked host cells, which precedes localized host cell death. We isolated Rar1 by map-based cloning. The sequence of the deduced 25.5 kDa protein reveals two copies of a 60-amino acid domain, CHORD, conserved in tandem organization in protozoa, plants, and metazoa. CHORD defines a novel eukaryotic Zn2+-binding domain. Silencing of the C. elegans CHORD-containing gene, chp, results in semisterility and embryo lethality, suggesting an essential function of the wild-type gene in nematode development. Our findings indicate that plant R genes have recruited a fundamental cellular control element for signaling of disease resistance and cell death.
The availability of nitrogen to Pseudomonas fluorescens DF57 during straw degradation in bulk soil and in barley rhizosphere was studied by introducing a bioluminescent reporter strain (DF57-N3), responding to nitrogen limitation, to model systems of varying complexity. DF57-N3 was apparently not nitrogen limited in the natural and sterilized bulk soil used for these experiments. The soil was subsequently amended with barley straw, representing a plant residue with a high carbon-to-nitrogen ratio (between 60 and 100). In these systems the DF57-N3 population gradually developed a nitrogen limitation response during the first week of straw decomposition, but exclusively in the presence of the indigenous microbial population. This probably reflects the restricted ability of DF57 to degrade plant polymers by hydrolytic enzymes. The impact of the indigenous population on nitrogen availability to DF57-N3 was mimicked by the cellulolytic organism Trichoderma harzianum Rifai strain T3 when coinoculated with DF57-N3 in sterilized, straw-amended soil. Limitation occurred concomitantly with fungal cellulase production, pointing to the significance of hydrolytic activity for the mobilization of straw carbon sources, thereby increasing the nitrogen demand. Enhanced survival of DF57-N3 in natural soil after straw amendment further indicated that DF57 was cross-fed with carbon/energy sources. The natural barley rhizosphere was experienced by DF57-N3 as an environment with restricted nitrogen availability regardless of straw amendment. In the rhizosphere of plants grown in sterilized soil, nitrogen limitation was less severe, pointing to competition with indigenous microorganisms as an important determinant of the nitrogen status for DF57-N3 in this environment. Hence, these studies have demonstrated that nitrogen availability and gene expression in Pseudomonas is intimately linked to the structure and function of the microbial community. Further, it was demonstrated that the activities of cellulolytic microorganisms may affect the availability of energy and specific nutrients to a group of organisms deficient in hydrolytic enzyme activities.
Three cDNAs encoding chloroplast RNA-binding proteins (RNBPs) were identified in a screen of barley albostrians mutant expression libraries, and their binding and expression characteristics were determined. Two of these proteins, designated cp31AHv and cp31BHv, are closely related to group II, whereas the third, cp33Hv, is more similar to group III of the nuclear-encoded chloroplast RNBPs of dicot plants. Analysis of RNA from sections of primary leaves by Northern hybridization showed that the expression of these genes correlates with the stage of leaf development. The steady state transcript levels of the two genes encoding cp31BHv and cp33Hv, but not of the gene for cp31AHv, were positively affected by light. Moreover, a plastid factor is required for activation of cp31AHv transcription as revealed by the low level of cp31AHv mRNA in white leaves of the albostrians mutant and of seedlings treated with Norflurazon. Therefore, we propose the existence of a light-independent plastid-derived signal chain that regulates the expression of cp31AHv.
NIP1, the product of the avirulence gene AvrRrs1 from Rhynchosporium secalis, a fungal pathogen of barley, is a small secreted cysteine-rich protein. This protein is essential for the specific recognition of the fungus by host plants carrying the complementary resistance gene Rrs1. Different heterologous expression systems were tested to produce sufficient quantities of NIP1 to allow its utilization in receptor identification and isolation. In addition, protein amounts higher than those produced in fungal cultures are required to determine its 3D structure and to analyze its interaction with a receptor. The most efficient method, the synthesis of a His-tag fusion protein in Escherichia coli combined with a refolding procedure, yielded up to 3 mg of recombinant NIP1 from a 1-liter bacterial culture. After removal of the His-tag, the recombinant protein showed the same physicochemical characteristics as the native NIP1 and, most importantly, full biological activity.
Basic cellular processes such as electron transport in photosynthesis and respiration require the precise control of iron homeostasis. To mobilize iron, plants have evolved at least two different strategies. The nonproteinogenous amino acid nicotianamine which is synthesized from three molecules of S-adenosyl-L-methionine, is an essential component of both pathways. This compound is missing in the tomato mutant chloronerva, which exhibits severe defects in the regulation of iron metabolism. We report the purification and partial characterization of the nicotianamine synthase from barley roots as well as the cloning of two corresponding gene sequences. The function of the gene sequence has been verified by overexpression in Escherichia coli. Further confirmation comes from reduction of the nicotianamine content and the exhibition of a chloronerva-like phenotype due to the expression of heterologous antisense constructs in transgenic tobacco plants. The native enzyme with an apparent Mr of approximately 105 000 probably represents a trimer of S-adenosyl-L-methionine-binding subunits. A comparison with the recently cloned chloronerva gene of tomato reveals striking sequence homology, providing support for the suggestion that the destruction of the nicotianamine synthase encoding gene is the molecular basis of the tomato mutation.
A cDNA, hvst1, was isolated from Hordeum vulgare by heterologous complementation in Escherichia coli. This cDNA encodes a high-affinity sulfate transporter that is 2442 bp in length and consists of 660 amino acids. Under steady-state conditions of sulfate supply during culture, sulfate influx (measured at 100 microM external sulfate concentration) and hvst1 transcript level were inversely correlated with sulfate concentrations in the culture solution. Glutathione (GSH) concentrations increased as external sulfate was increased from 2.5 to 250 microM. A time-course study, designed to investigate effects of sulfate withdrawal on the abundance of hvst1 transcript, showed a 5-fold increase of the latter within the first two hours. This was followed by a further slight increase during the next 46 h. These changes were accompanied by a parallel increase in sulfate influx and a decrease of root GSH concentrations. When plants that had been deprived of sulfate for 24 h were exposed to L-cysteine (Cys) or GSH for 3 h, GSH was the more effective down-regulator, reducing hvst1 transcript level to below that of unstarved controls. The decrease in transcript abundance induced by sulfate or Cys was partially relieved by the addition of buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of GSH synthesis. Both hvst1 transcripts and sulfate influx increased as a function of N supply to N-starved plants. Amino oxyacetate acid (AOA), an aminotransferase inhibitor, when supplied with NO3-, increased transcript abundance of hvst1, while tungstate, methionine sulfoximine (MSO) and azaserine (AZA), inhibitors of nitrate reductase, glutamine synthetase and glutamate synthase (GOGAT), respectively, were without effect. AOA decreased root concentrations of aspartate (Asp), Cys and GSH; in contrast, glutamate (Glu) concentrations remained unchanged.
The family of 14-3-3 proteins is ubiquitous in eukaryotes and has been shown to exert an array of functions. We were interested in the possible role of 14-3-3 proteins in seed germination. Therefore, we studied the expression of 14-3-3 mRNA and protein in barley (Hordeum distichum L.) embryos during germination. With the use of specific cDNA probes and antibodies, we could detect individual expression of three 14-3-3 isoforms, 14-3-3A, 14-3-3B, and 14-3-3C. Each homolog was found to be expressed in barley embryos. Whereas protein levels of all three isoforms were constant during germination, mRNA expression was found to be induced upon imbibition of the grains. The induction of 14-3-3A gene expression during germination was different from that of 14-3-3B and 14-3-3C. In situ immunolocalization analysis showed similar spatial expression for 14-3-3A and 14-3-3B, while 14-3-3C expression was markedly different. Whereas 14-3-3A and 14-3-3B were expressed throughout the embryo, 14-3-3C expression was tissue specific, with the strongest expression observed in the scutellum and the L2 layer of the shoot apical meristem. These results show that 14-3-3 homologs are differently regulated in barley embryos, and provide a first step in acquiring more knowledge about the role of 14-3-3 proteins in the germination process.
The synthesis of EPB, a cysteine proteinase responsible for the degradation of seed endosperm storage proteins in barley (Hordeum vulgare), is induced by gibberellins (GA) and repressed by abscisic acid (ABA). The EPB gene family consists of two very similar members, EPB-1 and EPB-2, with the former being more highly induced by GA. We have functionally characterized the cis-acting elements in the EPB-1 promoter and determined that a gibberellin response element (GARE), a pyrimidine box and an upstream element are necessary for GA induction. By comparison with the promoters of alpha-amylase genes, which are also induced by GA, we suggest that GARE is coupled with the upstream element and the pyrimidine box to form a GA response complex. In addition, we have shown that the 3'-untranslated/untranscribed region of the EPB-1 gene is required for a low background expression in the absence of GA. Constitutive expression of a transcription factor, GAMyb, in the absence of GA leads to the transactivation of EPB-1 expression in a dosage dependent manner with the highest level comparable to that in fully GA-induced tissue. Co-expression of a truncated version of GAMyb containing only the DNA binding domain blocks the GA-induction of EPB-1, further supporting the role of GAMyb in the regulation of gene expression. Although ABA is very effective in blocking the GA induction of EPB-1, it has no effect on the GAMyb-mediated expression of EPB-1. We suggest that ABA acts upstream of the formation of functional GAMyb which co-ordinates the hormonal regulation of a diverse group of genes in cereal aleurone layers, including those encoding EPB and alpha-amylases.
The root-colonizing bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens CHA0 was used to construct an oxygen-responsive biosensor. An anaerobically inducible promoter of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which depends on the FNR (fumarate and nitrate reductase regulation)-like transcriptional regulator ANR (anaerobic regulation of arginine deiminase and nitrate reductase pathways), was fused to the structural lacZ gene of Escherichia coli. By inserting the reporter fusion into the chromosomal attTn7 site of P. fluorescens CHA0 by using a mini-Tn7 transposon, the reporter strain, CHA900, was obtained. Grown in glutamate-yeast extract medium in an oxystat at defined oxygen levels, the biosensor CHA900 responded to a decrease in oxygen concentration from 210 x 10(2) Pa to 2 x 10(2) Pa of O(2) by a nearly 100-fold increase in beta-galactosidase activity. Half-maximal induction of the reporter occurred at about 5 x 10(2) Pa. This dose response closely resembles that found for E. coli promoters which are activated by the FNR protein. In a carbon-free buffer or in bulk soil, the biosensor CHA900 still responded to a decrease in oxygen concentration, although here induction was about 10 times lower and the low oxygen response was gradually lost within 3 days. Introduced into a barley-soil microcosm, the biosensor could report decreasing oxygen concentrations in the rhizosphere for a 6-day period. When the water content in the microcosm was raised from 60% to 85% of field capacity, expression of the reporter gene was elevated about twofold above a basal level after 2 days of incubation, suggesting that a water content of 85% caused mild anoxia. Increased compaction of the soil was shown to have a faster and more dramatic effect on the expression of the oxygen reporter than soil water content alone, indicating that factors other than the water-filled pore space influenced the oxygen status of the soil. These experiments illustrate the utility of the biosensor for detecting low oxygen concentrations in the rhizosphere and other soil habitats.
The chloroplast psbD gene, which encodes the D2 subunit of photosystem II, is regulated by a blue light-responsive promoter (BLRP). We tested the ability of different regions of the barley (Hordeum vulagare) BLRP to drive transcription of the lacZ reporter gene in genomic transformants of Synechococcus sp. strain PCC7942. The barley BLRP was transcribed in Synechococcus from the same initiation sites that are used in plant chloroplasts in vivo. A region of the BLRP, residing between -83 and -112 bp upstream from the transcription initiation sites, functioned as a negative element in Synechococcus. Nucleotide sequences within this region are conserved among the psbD genes of several monocots and dicots, and with the nuclear negative regulatory element GT. Thus this new cis-element was designated Plastid GT, PGT. Proteins from chloroplasts of barley and Arabidopsis thaliana interacted with PGT in a sequence-specific and developmental-dependent manner. The DNA-protein complexes from Arabidopsis chloroplasts are composed of 60- and 38-kDa polypeptides. We postulate that GT and PGT have evolved in the nucleus and chloroplast, respectively, from a common ancestral regulatory element.
The molecular cloning of the first subunit C of the plant vacuolar H+-ATPase is reported. Tonoplast vesicles were purified from barley leaves by sucrose gradient centrifugation, and the tonoplast polypeptides were separated by two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis. Using an anti-ATPase holoenzyme antibody, a polypeptide was recognized in the molecular mass range of 40 kDa with an isoelectric point of about 6.0, and tentatively identified as subunit C. The polypeptide spot was excised from about 50 2-D gels and subjected to endo Lys C proteolysis. Two proteolytic peptides were sequenced and the amino acid sequences were used to design degenerated oligonucleotides, followed by PCR amplification with cDNA template and screening of a cDNA library synthesized from Hordeum vulgare poly A mRNA of epidermis strips. The full length clone of 1.5 kbp contains an open reading frame of 1062 bp encoding a polypeptide of 354 amino acids with a molecular mass of 39,982 Da and an isoelectric point of 6.04. Amino acid identity with sequences of SUC from animals and fungi is in the range of 36.7 to 38.5%. Expression of the cloned gene was demonstrated by Northern blotting and RT-PCR.
The notion of debranching enzyme activity as a participant in starch synthesis is gaining acceptance. Inconsistent reports from mutant analyses implicate either isoamylase or pullulanase as a determinant in amylopectin formation and whether wild-type plants utilize one or the other, or both, of these debranching enzymes in starch synthesis is unclear. Recent results on the sul mutant in maize suggest that both forms of debranching enzymes might be involved in amylopectin formation. We wished to find out if isoamylase takes part in starch synthesis by comparing isoamylase gene activity under three conditions: (1) during starch accumulation in developing sink tissues; (2) during starch degradation in germinating seeds; (3) in ectopic expression after applying sucrose, a starch precursor. We isolated the gene for barley isoamylase, isol, and analysed its expression and regulation in germinating seeds, developing endosperm and vegetative tissues, and compared the isoamylase gene expression in sink tissues from three different species. Our results indicate that isoamylase gene activity is involved in starch synthesis in wild-type plants and is modulated by sucrose.
We isolated a cDNA clone, Bnuc1, encoding a nuclease I from leaves of salt-stressed barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Haruna-nijyo) by the differential display method. Northern blot analysis revealed that the transcript of Bnuc1 gene was increased dramatically in barley leaves under salt stress. The expression of Bnuc1 gene was also increased by exogenously applied abscisic acid (ABA) in leaves, but not by gibberellic acid (GA) during seed germination. Furthermore, Bnuc1 gene was expressed more in old leaves than in young leaves during both salt stress and natural senescence. Salt-inducible nuclease activity possibly corresponding to the Bnuc1 gene was detected, and was much higher in old leaves than in young leaves under salt stress.
High-fluence white and blue light, but not red light, enhanced transcription of the barley chloroplast psbA promoter when heterologously expressed as a lacZ transcriptional fusion in the cyanobacterium, Synechococcus sp. strain PCC7942. Analysis of Arabidopsis thaliana phytochrome mutants, phyAphyB and hy2, indicated that a distinct blue phototransduction pathway stimulates psbA expression. The evolutionary implications of these findings are discussed.
Upon jasmonate treatment barley leaf segments express a putative ribosome-inactivating protein (JIP60). The influence of this protein on translation in planta has been analysed by using barley plants and tobacco plants transformed with a barley cDNA encoding JIP60. In both plant systems JIP60 exhibited N-glycosidase activity in vivo. The depurination of the 25S rRNA of tobacco and barley ribosomes led to accumulation of translationally inactive polysomes.
Two full-length lipoxygenase cDNA sequences (LoxB and LoxC) from barley (Hordeum distichum cv. L. Triumph) are described. The cDNAs share high homology with the barley LoxA cDNA. Southern blotting experiments indicate single copy numbers of the three lipoxygenase genes. RFLP mapping revealed the presence of single lipoxygenase loci. LoxA and LoxB map on chromosome 4 and LoxC on chromosome 7. Two isoenzymes, LOX1 and LOX2, have been purified previously from germinating barley and characterized. LOX1 is encoded by LoxA, while LOX2 is encoded by LoxC. The product related to the third cDNA (loxB) has not been identified so far, suggesting a low protein abundance for the corresponding isoform in barley. Transcripts corresponding with these LOX genes are predominantly observed in grain and in seedling, whereas transcripts corresponding to LoxB and LoxC are also observed in mature vegetative tissue. No lipoxygenase mRNA could be detected in aleurone layer of germinating grain. No significant differences in lipoxygenase mRNA levels were observed in developing grains grown under dormant or non-dormant conditions, suggesting that LOX is not directly involved in induction of grain dormancy.
Highly efficient cap-independent translation initiation at the 5'-proximal AUG is facilitated by the 3' translation enhancer sequence (3'TE) located near the 3' end of barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) genomic RNA. The role of the 3'TE in regulating viral translation was examined. The 3'TE is required for translation and thus replication of the genomic RNA that lacks a 5' cap (Allen et al., 1999, Virology253:139-144). Here we show that the 3'TE also mediates translation of uncapped viral subgenomic mRNAs (sgRNA1 and sgRNA2). A 109-nt viral sequence is sufficient for 3'TE activity in vitro, but additional viral sequence is necessary for cap-independent translation in vivo. The 5' extremity of the sequence required in the 3' untranslated region (UTR) for cap-independent translation in vivo coincides with the 5' end of sgRNA2. Thus, sgRNA2 has the 3'TE in its 5' UTR. Competition studies using physiological ratios of viral RNAs showed that, in trans, the 109-nt 3'TE alone, or in the context of 869-nt sgRNA2, inhibited translation of genomic RNA much more than it inhibited translation of sgRNA1. The divergent 5' UTRs of genomic RNA and sgRNA1 contribute to this differential susceptibility to inhibition. We propose that sgRNA2 serves as a novel regulatory RNA to carry out the switch from early to late gene expression. Thus, this new mechanism for temporal control of translation control involves a sequence that stimulates translation in cis and acts in trans to selectively inhibit translation of viral mRNA.
The major light-harvesting complex of photosystem II in higher plants is known as LHCII. It is composed of a number of chlorophyll-binding proteins sharing epitopes with each other. The number of apoproteins resolved by fully denaturing sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis varies in different species. In order to know if this heterogeneity is caused by the expression of a number of homologous genes or if it is the product of post-translational modifications, we have resolved the six major apoproteins of Zea mays LHCII. Each protein is purified to homogeneity, subjected to direct protein sequencing and the sequences compared with those deduced from lhcb genes in maize and other organisms. All of the six proteins are distinct gene products, since they show differences in their primary structure. Three apoproteins are identified as products of type I lhcb genes and one each as type II and type III gene products. A sixth protein does not fit the requirements for any of the lhcb genes so far cloned and is therefore probably the product of an lhcb gene type not yet described. Our results clearly show that the major source of LHCII protein heterogeneity is the expression of many lhcb genes. Fractionation of maize LHCII by non-denaturing flat-bed isoelectric focusing resolves at least five major isoforms showing distinct differences in their polypeptide composition and also differing in their spectroscopic properties, thus suggesting that individual Lhcb gene products have distinct pigment-binding properties.
A cDNA clone encoding the Prx7 peroxidase from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) predicted a 341-amino acid protein with a molecular weight of 36,515. N- and C-terminal putative signal peptides were present, suggesting a vacuolar location of the peroxidase. Immunoblotting and reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction showed that the Prx7 protein and mRNA accumulated abundantly in barley coleoptiles and in leaf epidermis inoculated with powdery mildew fungus (Blumeria graminis). Two isoperoxidases with isoelectric points of 9.3 and 7.3 (P9.3 and P7.3, respectively) were purified to homogeneity from barley coleoptiles. P9.3 and P7.3 had Reinheitszahl values of 3.31 and 2.85 and specific activities (with 2,2'-azino-di-[3-ethyl-benzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid], pH 5.5, as the substrate) of 11 and 79 units/mg, respectively. N-terminal amino acid sequencing and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass-spectrometry peptide analysis identified the P9. 3 peroxidase activity as due to Prx7. Tissue and subcellular accumulation of Prx7 was studied using activity-stained isoelectric focusing gels and immunoblotting. The peroxidase activity due to Prx7 accumulated in barley leaves 24 h after inoculation with powdery mildew spores or by wounding of epidermal cells. Prx7 accumulated predominantly in the epidermis, apparently in the vacuole, and appeared to be the only pathogen-induced vacuolar peroxidase expressed in barley tissues. The data presented here suggest that Prx7 is responsible for the biosynthesis of antifungal compounds known as hordatines, which accumulate abundantly in barley coleoptiles.
The gene encoding the starch debranching enzyme limit dextrinase, LD, from barley (Hordeum vulgare), was isolated from a genomic phage library using a barley cDNA clone as probe. The gene encodes a protein of 904 amino acid residues with a calculated molecular mass of 98.6 kDa. This is in agreement with a value of 105 kDa estimated by SDS-PAGE. The coding sequence is interrupted by 26 introns varying in length from 93 bp to 825 bp. The 27 exons vary in length from 53 bp to 197 bp. Southern blot analysis shows that the limit dextrinase gene is present as a single copy in the barley genome. Gene expression is high during germination and the steady state transcription level reaches a maximum at day 5 of germination. The deduced amino acid sequence corresponds to the protein sequence of limit dextrinase purified from germinating malt, as determined by automated N-terminal sequencing of tryptic fragments coupled with matrix assisted laser desorption mass spectrometry. The sequenced peptide fragments cover 70% of the entire protein sequence, which shows 62% and 77% identity to that of starch debranching enzymes from spinach and rice and 37% identity to Klebsiella pullulanase. Sequence alignment supports the multidomain architecture and identifies both secondary structure elements of the catalytic (beta/alpha)8-barrel substrate, catalytic residues, and specificity associated motifs characteristic of members of the glycoside hydrolase family 13 which cleave alpha-1,6-glucosidic bonds. A remarkable distribution of the secondary structure elements to individual exons is observed.
The genes AV1, AV10, and Z1 encode proteins that accumulate during oat seed development. In developing endosperm of Avena sativa (cultivated oat), AV1, AV10 and Z1 mRNAs reach maximal levels midway through seed development but fall to very low levels in mature seeds. Similarly, mRNAs for these proteins peak during endosperm development of Avena fatua (wild oat) and are later degraded. However, during late maturation of A. fatua seeds, populations of mRNA fragments shorter than the intact transcripts accumulate as the full-length transcripts decline in abundance. The smaller RNA molecules, which are apparently long-lived decay intermediates, are derived randomly from the entire transcripts and are most likely not generated by cleavage at precisely defined sites. Other A. fatua endosperm mRNAs that are degraded during late seed development, such as those for ADP glucose pyrophosphorylase and starch synthase, do not produce detectable decay intermediates. Decay intermediates of AV1 and Z1 mRNAs persist at high levels during late seed development of two other undomesticated oat species, Avena strigosa and Avena barbata. The persistence of decay intermediates for these endosperm mRNAs in wild grass species may represent a model system for studying RNA decay process in plant tissues.
Translation of the large subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (LSU) was investigated by labeling of isolated barley plastids with [35S]-methionine. In both chloroplasts and etioplasts, labeling of LSU was severely impaired if plastid membranes were removed from the reaction mixtures. Removal of membrane-bound polysomes with high salt or puromycin greatly decreased translation of LSU. Pulse-labeled chloroplast membranes were shown to release LSU if chased with unlabeled methionine in the presence of stroma. Immunoprecipitation detected higher amounts of labeled LSU translation intermediates associated with the membrane fraction than in the soluble fraction. We therefore conclude that, in plastids, membrane-bound polysomes are required not only for translation of membrane-intrinsic proteins but also for translation of a soluble protein.
Aspartate kinase (AK) activity is regulated by light. The activity was more in light exposed barley seedlings than those grown in the dark. The light effect was manifested even with small exposures of 5 min duration and red light was more effective than white light in this respect. The effect of 5 min red light could be reversed by a 5 min pulse of far-red light indicating the involvement of phytochrome in this response. The phytochrome is also involved in long term light effects (24 hr exposures with white light). Ca++ takes part in the signal transduction pathway for this light response. Western blot analysis using antibodies raised against the purified lysine- and threonine-sensitive AK isoenzymes from spinach leaves showed no cross reaction with the antibodies to the threonine-sensitive AK in the dark and 5 min far-red light exposed seedlings. But the protein band was detected in the white and red lights. Northern blot analysis of seedlings grown under dark and exposed to white, red and far-red lights and probed with the gene encoding aspartokinase-homoserine dehydrogenase (AKHSD) protein indicated that the gene was differentially expressed. In dark grown seedlings, AKHSD transcript was in low concentration as compared to white light where the transcript concentration was high. A 5 min red light pulse increased the transcript concentration significantly in contrast to 5 min far-red light. The transcript concentration was reduced when 5 min red light was followed by a 5 min far-red light pulse. The AK activity in dark-raised seedlings is attributed to the presence of only one isoenzyme that is sensitive to lysine but insensitive to Ca++ and calmodulin (CAM). In both white and red light exposed seedlings, three isoenzymes of AK were detected. Two of these were sensitive to threonine while one was sensitive to lysine. Both of the threonine sensitive isoenzymes were activated by Ca++ and CAM. Also one of these isoenzymes seems to be located and synthesized in chloroplasts because its synthesis was completely inhibited by chloramphenicol but not by cycloheximide.
We cloned a cDNA for a gibberellin-induced ribonuclease (RNase) expressed in barley (Hordeum vulgare) aleurone and the gene for a second barley RNase expressed in leaf tissue. The protein encoded by the cDNA is unique among RNases described to date in that it contains a novel 23-amino acid insert between the C2 and C3 conserved sequences. Expression of the recombinant protein in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) suspension-cultured protoplasts gave an active RNase of the expected size, confirming the enzymatic activity of the protein. Analyses of hormone regulation of expression of mRNA for the aleurone RNase revealed that, like the pattern for alpha-amylase, mRNA levels increased in the presence of gibberellic acid, and its antagonist abscisic acid prevented this effect. Quantitative studies at early times demonstrated that cycloheximide treatment of aleurone layers increased mRNA levels 4-fold, whereas a combination of gibberellin plus cycloheximide treatment was required to increase alpha-amylase mRNA levels to the same extent. These results are consistent with loss of repression as an initial effect of gibberellic acid on transcription of those genes, although the regulatory pathways for the two genes may differ.
In barley leaves, the application of jasmonates leads to dramatic alterations of gene expression. Among the up-regulated gene products lipoxygenases occur abundantly. Here, at least four of them were identified as 13-lipoxygenases exhibiting acidic pH optima between pH 5.0 and 6.5. (13S,9Z,11E,15Z)-13-hydroxy-9,11,15-octadecatrienoic acid was found to be the main endogenous lipoxygenase-derived polyenoic fatty acid derivative indicating 13-lipoxygenase activity in vivo. Moreover, upon methyl jasmonate treatment > 78% of the fatty acid hydroperoxides are metabolized by hydroperoxide lyase activity resulting in the endogenous occurrence of volatile aldehydes. (2E)-4-Hydroxy-2-hexenal, hexanal and (3Z)- plus (2E)-hexenal were identified as 2,4-dinitro-phenylhydrazones using HPLC and identification was confirmed by GC/MS analysis. This is the first proof that (2E)-4-hydroxy-2-hexenal is formed in plants under physiological conditions. Quantification of (2E)-4-hydroxy-2-hexenal, hexanal and hexenals upon methyl jasmonate treatment of barley leaf segments revealed that hexenals were the major aldehydes peaking at 24 h after methyl jasmonate treatment. Their endogenous content increased from 1.6 nmol.g-1 fresh weight to 45 nmol.g-1 fresh weight in methyl-jasmonate-treated leaf segments, whereas (2E)-4-hydroxy-2-hexenal, peaking at 48 h of methyl jasmonate treatment increased from 9 to 15 nmol.g-1 fresh weight. Similar to the hexenals, hexanal reached its maximal amount 24 h after methyl jasmonate treatment, but increased from 0.6 to 3.0 nmol.g-1 fresh weight. In addition to the classical leaf aldehydes, (2E)-4-hydroxy-2-hexenal was detected, thereby raising the question of whether it functions in the degradation of chloroplast membrane constituents, which takes place after methyl jasmonate treatment.
A barley endosperm cDNA, encoding a DNA-binding protein of the bZIP class of transcription factors, BLZ2, has been characterized. The Blz2 mRNA expression is restricted to the endosperm, where it precedes that of the hordein genes. BLZ2, expressed in bacteria, binds specifically to the GCN4-like motif (GLM; 5'-GTGAGTCAT-3') in a 43-base pair oligonucleotide derived from the promoter region of a Hor-2 gene (B1-hordein). This oligonucleotide also includes the prolamin box (PB; 5'-TGTAAAG-3'). Binding by BLZ2 is prevented when the GLM is mutated to 5'-GTGctTCtc-3' but not when mutations affect the PB. The BLZ2 protein is a potent transcriptional activator in a yeast two-hybrid system where it dimerizes with BLZ1, a barley bZIP protein encoded by the ubiquitously expressed Blz1 gene. Transient expression experiments in co-bombarded developing barley endosperms demonstrate that BLZ2 transactivates transcription from the GLM of the Hor-2 gene promoter and that this activation is also partially dependent on the presence of an intact PB. A drastic decrease in GUS activity is observed in co-bombarded barley endosperms when using as effectors equimolar mixtures of Blz2 and Blz1 in antisense constructs. These results strongly implicate the endosperm-specific BLZ2 protein from barley, either as a homodimer or as a heterodimer with BLZ1, as an important transcriptional activator of seed storage protein genes containing the GLM in their promoters.
The single gene encoding limit dextrinase (pullulan 6-glucanohydrolase; EC 3.2.1.41) in barley (Hordeum vulgare) has 26 introns that range in size from 93 to 822 base pairs. The mature polypeptide encoded by the gene has 884 amino acid residues and a calculated molecular mass of 97,417 D. Limit dextrinase mRNA is abundant in gibberellic acid-treated aleurone layers and in germinated grain. Gibberellic acid response elements were found in the promoter region of the gene. These observations suggest that the enzyme participates in starch hydrolysis during endosperm mobilization in germinated grain. The mRNA encoding the enzyme is present at lower levels in the developing endosperm of immature grain, a location consistent with a role for limit dextrinase in starch synthesis. Enzyme activity was also detected in developing grain. The limit dextrinase has a presequence typical of transit peptides that target nascent polypeptides to amyloplasts, but this would not be expected to direct secretion of the mature enzyme from aleurone cells in germinated grain. It remains to be discovered how the enzyme is released from the aleurone and whether another enzyme, possibly of the isoamylase group, might be equally important for starch hydrolysis in germinated grain.
GAMYB is an MYB transcription factor which is expressed in cereal aleurone cells in response to gibberellin (GA). HvGAMYB binds to the TAACAAA box of a high-pl alpha-amylase gene promoter and transcriptionally activates its expression. In this study, we examined the role of HvGAMYB in activating expression of other GA-regulated genes encoding hydrolytic enzymes. In transient expression experiments, HvGAMYB transactivated expression of reporter genes fused to a low-pl alpha-amylase gene promoter, an EII (1-3, 1-4)-beta-glucanase gene promoter and a cathepsin B-like protease promoter. HvGAMYB DNA binding specificity was determined using a PCR-based random site selection using HvGAMYB fusion protein isolated from E. coli. The deduced consensus closely resembled gibberellin response elements in alpha-amylase promoters. Functional analysis of HvGAMYB by transient expression of C terminal HvGAMYB deletions in barley aleurone cells identified two transcriptional activation domains (TADs) which function in transcriptional regulation of both high- and low-pl alpha-amylase promoters. The same TADs were identified using a heterologous yeast expression system. Together, these results indicate that HvGAMYB has two TADs. These domains are C-terminal to its DNA-binding domain.
Escherichia coli is widely used for the production of proteins, which are of interest in structure and function studies. The folding yield of inclusion body protein is, however, generally low (a few percent) for proteins such as the plant and fungal peroxidases, which contain four disulfide bonds, two Ca2+ ions, and a heme group. We have studied the expression yield and folding efficiency of (i) a novel Arabidopsis thaliana peroxidase, ATP N; and (ii) barley grain peroxidase, BP 1. The expression yield ranges from 0 to 60 microgram/ml of cell culture depending on the peroxidase gene and the vector/host combination. The choice of E. coli strain in particular affects the yield of active peroxidase obtained in the folding step. Thus, the yield of active ATP N peroxidase can be increased 50-fold by using thioredoxin reductase negative strains, which facilitate the formation of disulfide bonds in inclusion body protein.
The photosystem II reaction center chlorophyll protein D2, is encoded by the chloroplast gene psbD. PsbD is transcribed from at least three different promoters, one which is activated by high fluence blue light. Sequences within 130 base pairs (bp) of the psbD blue light-responsive promoter (BLRP) are highly conserved in higher plants. In this study, the structure of the psbD BLRP was analyzed in detail using deletion and site-directed mutagenesis and in vitro transcription. Deletion analysis showed that a 53-bp DNA region of the psbD BLRP, from -57 to -5, was sufficient for transcription in vitro. Mutation of a putative prokaryotic -10 element (TATTCT) located from -7 to -12 inhibited transcription from the psbD BLRP. In contrast, mutation of a putative prokaryotic -35 element, had no influence on transcription. Mutation of a TATATA sequence located between the barley psbA -10 and -35 elements significantly reduced transcription from this promoter. However, site-directed mutation of sequences located between -35 and -10 had no effect on transcription from the psbD BLRP. Transcription from the psbD BLRP was previously shown to require a 22-bp sequence, termed the AAG-box, located between -36 and -57. The AAG-box specifically binds the protein complex AGF. Site-directed mutagenesis identified two different sequence motifs in the AAG-box that are important for transcription in vitro. Based on these results, we propose that positive factors bind to the AAG-box and interact with the chloroplast-encoded RNA polymerase to promote transcription from the psbD BLRP. Transcription from the psbD BLRP is thus similar to type II bacterial promoters that use activating proteins to stimulate transcription. Transcription of the psbD BLRP was approximately 6. 5-fold greater in plastid extracts from illuminated versus dark-grown plants. This suggests that light-induced activation of this promoter in vivo involves factors interacting with the 53-bp psbD BLRP in vitro.
We report the expression of the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) COR (cold-regulated) gene cor14b (formerly pt59) and the accumulation of its chloroplast-localized protein product. A polyclonal antibody raised against the cor14b-encoded protein detected two chloroplast COR proteins: COR14a and COR14b. N-terminal sequencing of COR14a and expression of cor14b in Arabidopsis plants showed that COR14a is not encoded by the cor14b sequence, but it shared homology with the wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) WCS19 COR protein. The expression of cor14b was strongly impaired in the barley albino mutant an, suggesting the involvement of a plastidial factor in the control of gene expression. Low-level accumulation of COR14b was induced by cold treatment in etiolated plants, although cor14b expression and protein accumulation were enhanced after a short light pulse. Light quality was a determining factor in regulating gene expression: red or blue but not far-red or green light pulses were able to promote COR14b accumulation in etiolated plants, suggesting that phytochrome and blue light photoreceptors may be involved in the control of cor14b gene expression. Maximum accumulation of COR14b was reached only when plants were grown and/or hardened under the standard photoperiod. The effect of light on the COR14b stability was demonstrated by using transgenic Arabidopsis. These plants constitutively expressed cor14b mRNAs regardless of temperature and light conditions; nevertheless, green plants accumulated about twice as much COR14b protein as etiolated plants.
Nicotianamine synthase (NAS), the key enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway for the mugineic acid family of phytosiderophores, catalyzes the trimerization of S-adenosylmethionine to form one molecule of nicotianamine. We purified NAS protein and isolated the genes nas1, nas2, nas3, nas4, nas5-1, nas5-2, and nas6, which encode NAS and NAS-like proteins from Fe-deficient barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Ehimehadaka no. 1) roots. Escherichia coli expressing nas1 showed NAS activity, confirming that this gene encodes a functional NAS. Expression of nas genes as determined by northern-blot analysis was induced by Fe deficiency and was root specific. The NAS genes form a multigene family in the barley and rice genomes.
Full length cDNAs for barley ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) coding for the large subunits of the endosperm and leaf homologues of the enzyme (AGPase-S1 and -S2, respectively) and for the small subunit protein from endosperm (AGPase-B1), have been expressed in Escherichia coli. The cDNAs for AGPase-S1 and -S2 required different induction conditions for their maximal expression and they encoded immunologically distinct proteins. The AGPase-S1 that was produced by E. coli had the same M(r) (58 kDa) as the corresponding protein in barley crude endosperm extracts, whereas the bacteria-produced AGPase-S2 (55 kDa) was larger than its counterpart from barley leaf preparations (53 kDa). An enzymatically active AGPase expressed in E. coli from a double construct containing cDNAs for AGPase-S1 and -B1 subunits was insensitive to the activation by 3-phosphoglycerate and to inhibition by inorganic phosphate, similarly to the enzyme in barley endosperm. Neither AGPase-S1 nor -B1 were active when expressed alone in the bacteria. The data are discussed with respect to possible mechanisms of intracellular targeting of immature AGPase-S proteins in barley tissues and regarding previous data on effector regulation of the barley enzyme.
A 3' translation enhancer (3'TE) sequence that facilitates cap-independent translation is located near the 3' end of barley yellow dwarf luteovirus RNA. Here, we show that the 3'TE is required for translation of the viral genome and thus for viral replication. Antisense inhibition showed that the 3'TE has significant secondary structure and is required for translation of virion RNA from infected plants and uncapped genomic transcripts but not for translation of capped transcripts. Direct end-labeling of RNAs verified the absence of a 5' modification on virion RNA. Thus barley yellow dwarf virus differs from related viruses by having neither a genome-linked protein nor a 5' cap.
Alfin1 cDNA, obtained by differential screening of a poly(A)+ library from salt-tolerant alfalfa cells, encodes a novel protein with a Cys4 and His/Cys3 putative zinc-binding domain that suggests a possible role for this protein in transcriptional regulation. We have expressed the cDNA in Escherichia coli and show that the recombinant Alfin1 protein binds DNA in a sequence-specific manner. The DNA recognition sequence was determined from individual clones isolated after four rounds of random oligonucleotide selection in gel retardation assays, coupled with PCR amplification of the selected sequences. The consensus binding site for Alfin1 is shown to contain two to five G-rich triplets with the conserved core of GNGGTG or GTGGNG in clones showing high-efficiency binding. DNA binding of the recombinant Alfin1 was inhibited by EDTA. Alfin1 mRNA was found predominantly in alfalfa roots. Growth of salt-sensitive Medicago sativa L on 171 mM NaCl led to a slight decrease in Alfin1 mRNA, while the salt-tolerant plants showed no decrease in Alfin1 mRNA levels. Interestingly, recombinant Alfin1 binds efficiently to three fragments of the MsPRP2 promoter, each containing consensus sequences identified by the random oligonucleotide selection. Since MsPRP2 transcripts were shown to be root-specific and accumulated in alfalfa roots in a salt-inducible manner, Alfin1 may play a role in the regulated expression of MsPRP2 in alfalfa roots and contribute to salt tolerance in these plants.
Cold acclimation in plants involves the expression of many genes and gene families. The present study reports the expression analysis of three members of the blt14 gene family in barley. Gene-specific antisense oligonucleotides were used as probes in northern experiments so as to follow independently the expression of individual members of the gene family. Each clone revealed different accumulation kinetics when a spring and a winter cultivar were compared, suggesting that the different regulatory mechanisms leading to mRNA accumulation of an individual member of the blt14 gene family are genotype-dependent. In a collection of Hordeum spontaneum genotypes both qualitative and quantitative polymorphisms were found for the accumulation of blt14-related mRNAs, although no clear relationships were found between blt14 expression and frost resistance. The accumulation of the blt14-related mRNAs was also modulated by light and by the albino mutation a(n). The effects of light on the accumulation of the transcripts corresponding to the blt14 gene family were evaluated by comparing etiolated and green plants. Etiolated plants accumulate the blt14-related mRNAs at a detectable level already at 22 degrees C. When the same plants are exposed to cold in absence of light an increased mRNA accumulation above the level present in green cold-treated plants can be detected. On the contrary, etiolated plants showed a reduced blt14 accumulation when exposed to cold in the presence of light. Cold-induced expression of the blt14 gene family was strongly reduced in plants carrying the albino mutation a(n). This mutant showed a defective molecular response to cold even when probed with a cDNA coding for LEA type protein (paf93). The albino mutant a(n) was not able to harden when exposed to low temperature providing a direct evidence of the relationship between expression of cold-regulated (COR) genes and the development of cold hardening. Failure of cold acclimation in the mutant cannot be merely ascribed to the absence of photosynthetic activity, since etiolated wild-type plants accumulated COR mRNAs and improved frost resistance when exposed to cold.
Northern blot analysis using radioactive probes is still the most common technique to determine the accumulation of transcripts in cells and tissues. The main disadvantages of this technique are the possible health hazard, inconvenience during handling, the high amount of RNA target necessary for detection, and difficulties with stripping and reprobing. In this paper, we propose an easily applicable protocol for Northern blot analysis of plant RNA with enhanced sensitivity using digoxigenin-, fluorescein-, or biotin-labeled in vitro transcripts derived from PCR products. Furthermore, we show the rehybridization of Northern blots with fluorescein as a second hapten, avoiding any stripping procedure.
A cDNA encoding a DNA-binding protein of the DOF class of transcription factors was isolated from a barley endosperm library. The deduced amino acid sequence for the corresponding protein is 94% identical through the DOF domain to the prolamin-box (P-box) binding factor PBF from maize. The gene encoding the barley PBF (BPBF) maps to chromosome 7H, and its expression is restricted to the endosperm where it precedes that of the hordein genes. The BPBF expressed in bacteria as a GST-fusion binds a P-box 5'-TGTAAAG-3' containing oligonucleotide derived from the promoter region of an Hor2 gene. Binding was prevented when the P-box motif was mutated to 5'-TGTAgAc-3'. A P-box binding activity, present in barley and wheat endosperm nuclei, interacted similarly to BPBF with this synthetic oligonucleotide, and the binding was abolished by 1,10-phenanthroline. Transient expression experiments in developing barley endosperms demonstrate that BPBF transactivates transcription from the P-box element of a native Hor2 promoter and that direct binding of BPBF to its target site is essential for transactivation since mutations in the DOF DNA-binding domain or in the P-box motif of this promoter abolished both binding and transactivation. Evidence was also obtained for the presence in wheat of a Pbf homologue having similar DNA-binding properties to that of BPBF. These results strongly implicate this endosperm-specific DOF protein from barley as an important activator of hordein gene expression and suggest the evolutionary conservation of the Pbf gene function among small grain cereals.
The intensely pigmented teliospores of Ustilago hordei that are produced on susceptible barley cultivars contain nondiffusible deposits of a melanin-like pigment. Expression of pigmentation differed among haploid sporidial cultures and could be shown to be influenced by culture conditions. Pigmentation of strain 8.2a was black at acidic pH and repressed in medium adjusted to neutral or basic pH, and growth at elevated pH triggered a concomitant accumulation of a diffusible red pigment. Pigment formation by some strains was also determined to be under the control of thiamine and was completely inhibited when thiamine was present at levels above 0. 02 microM. The second messenger, cAMP, transiently repressed pigment formation, whereas the cAMP phosphodiesterase inhibitor isobutryl-3-methyl xanthine completely repressed pigment formation. Like cAMP, the expression of the Galpha subunit gene FIL1 from a multicopy vector resulted in transient inhibition of pigment formation. However, pigment formation was not observed in cells expressing the mutant allele FIL1(Q206R), which ostensibly renders the gene constitutively active. The means by which pigment formation is repressed suggested that numerous genes were involved. Upon examination of a wild-type strain transformed with random cosmid clones of a genomic library, it was estimated that approximately 30 cosmid members per genome equivalent caused repression of the melanin-like pigments, whereas approximately 6 cosmid members induced pigment formation.
We recently reported that formation of allopolyploid wheat was accompanied by rapid nonrandom changes in low-copy noncoding DNA sequences. In this report we show that following allopolyploidization, changes also occurred in coding sequences. Genomic DNA of nine different newly synthesized amphiploids of different ploidy levels and their parental lines was digested with five restriction enzymes and probed with 43 coding sequences. The sequences, 19 genomic and 24 cDNA sequences, are group (homoelogous) specific and represent the proximal and distal regions of the short and long arms of the seven homoeologous groups of the Triticeae. We revealed three types of changes: disappearance of a parental hybridization fragment(s), appearance of a novel fragment(s), and simultaneous disappearance of a parental fragment(s) and appearance of a novel fragment(s). No elimination of sequences took place, since in every sequence studied the parental hybridization fragments were present in at least one of the enzyme digests. Variations in pattern among individual plants of the same amphiploid, as well as a between several synthetic and natural amphiploids, indicated that at least some of the genomic changes occurred at random. Intergenomic recombination was not the cause of the observed changes. Evidence was obtained, however, that changes were also brought about by DNA methylation. Methylation may cause inactivation of genes or modify their expression levels in some of the newly synthesized amphiploid plants, leading to genetic diploidization and gene-dosage compensation and thus increasing variation among individuals.
High-affinity K+ uptake in plant roots is rapidly up-regulated when K+ is withheld and down-regulated when K+ is resupplied. These processes make important contributions to plant K+ homeostasis. A cDNA coding for a high-affinity K+ transporter, HKT1, was earlier cloned from wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) roots and functionally characterized. We demonstrate here that in both barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and wheat roots, a rapid and large up-regulation of HKT1 mRNA levels resulted when K+ was withdrawn from growth media. This effect was specific for K+; withholding N caused a modest reduction of HKT1 mRNA levels. Up-regulation of HKT1 transcript levels in barley roots occurred within 4 h of removing K+, which corresponds to the documented increase of high-affinity K+ uptake in roots following removal of K+. Increased expression of HKT1 mRNA was evident before a decline in total root K+ concentration could be detected. Resupply of 1 mM K+ was sufficient to strongly reduce HKT1 transcript levels. In wheat root cortical cells, both membrane depolarizations in response to 100 &mgr;M K+, Cs+, and Rb+, and high-affinity K+ uptake were enhanced by K+ deprivation. Thus, in both plant systems the observed physiological changes associated with manipulating external K+ supply were correlated with levels of HKT1 mRNA expression. Implications of these findings for K+ sensing and regulation of the HKT1 mRNA levels in plant roots are discussed.
The barley lipoxygenase 1 (Lox1) gene encodes a protein expressed in embryos during grain development and germination and in leaves after methyl-jasmonate (MeJA) treatment. Transient gene expression assays in germinating barley embryos were used to identify cis-regulatory elements involved in the embryo-specific expression of the Lox1 gene. Analysis of transcriptional or translational fusions between Lox1 5' upstream sequences and the gusA reporter gene indicated that the 5'-untranslated leader sequence was involved in embryo-specific expression. Replacement of the leader sequence from the aleurone-specific Chi26 gene with the Lox1 leader sequence resulted in a chimeric gene expressed at high levels in embryo as well as in aleurone cells. Insertion of the Lox1 leader sequence between the 35S minimum promoter (A domain -90/+8) and the gusA reporter gene greatly enhanced promoter activity in a tissue-specific manner. Deletion/replacement analysis of the Lox1 leader sequence, combined with transient expression in germinating embryos and in vitro transcription/translation assays, suggests that the Lox1 leader sequence contains cis-elements regulating qualitative (tissue-specific) and quantitative gene expression.
An alpha-glucosidase cDNA clone derived from barley aleurone tissue was expressed in Pichia pastoris and Escherichia coli. The gene was fused with the N-terminal region of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae alpha-factor secretory peptide and placed under control of the Pichia AOX1 promoter in the vector pPIC9. Enzymatically active, recombinant alpha-glucosidase was synthesized and secreted from the yeast upon induction with methanol. The enzyme hydrolyzed maltose > trehalose > nigerose > isomaltose. Maltase activity occurred over the pH range 3.5-6.3 with an optimum at pH 4.3, classifying the enzyme as an acid alpha-glucosidase. The enzyme had a Km of 1.88 mM and Vmax of 0.054 micromol/min on maltose. The recombinant alpha-glucosidase expressed in E. coli was used to generate polyclonal antibodies. The antibodies detected 101 and 95 kDa forms of barley alpha-glucosidase early in seed germination. Their levels declined sharply later in germination, as an 81 kDa alpha-glucosidase became prominent. Synthesis of these proteins also occurred in isolated aleurones after treatment with gibberellin, and this was accompanied by a 14-fold increase in alpha-glucosidase enzyme activity.
The blt4 barley gene family encodes non-specific lipid transfer proteins and has been shown, by in situ localisation, to be expressed in the epidermal cells of leaves. The transcriptionally controlled, low-temperature-responsive member of this gene family, blt4.9, is predominantly expressed in shoot meristems. The promoter region (1938 bp) of blt4.9 contains sequence motifs which have been implicated in responses to low temperature, abscisic acid and other environmental factors. Deletion analysis showed that a 42 bp sequence proximal to, but not including, the CAAT and TATA boxes, confers enhanced low-temperature response to a reporter gene in a barley shoot explant transient expression system. Other promoter regions were shown to contain negative and positive regulatory regions. Electrophoretic mobility shift analysis (EMSA) was used with nuclear proteins from either low-temperature- or control-temperature-treated plants to further investigate the blt4.9 promoter. Synthetic oligonucleotides were used to identify a hexanucleotide, CCGAAA, within the 42 bp, low-temperature-responsive promoter region, as the binding site of a low-mobility nuclear protein complex. This complex was present in nuclear extracts from both low-temperature-treated and control plants and was the only complex formed within this region. Mutation of the CCGAAA motif within the low-temperature-responsive 42 bp promoter sequence reduced low-temperature responsiveness to basal levels. A related upstream element, CCGAC, known to be a low-temperature-responsive element in other plants, did not bind to nuclear proteins in this study. It is proposed that the hexanucleotide CCGAAA, at -195 from the first ATG, is involved in the low-temperature response of blt4.9 in barley.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) plants were grown at different photon flux densities ranging from 100 to 1800 &mgr;mol m-2 s-1 in air and/or in atmospheres with reduced levels of O2 and CO2. Low O2 and CO2 partial pressures allowed plants to grow under high photosystem II (PSII) excitation pressure, estimated in vivo by chlorophyll fluorescence measurements, at moderate photon flux densities. The xanthophyll-cycle pigments, the early light-inducible proteins, and their mRNA accumulated with increasing PSII excitation pressure irrespective of the way high excitation pressure was obtained (high-light irradiance or decreased CO2 and O2 availability). These findings indicate that the reduction state of electron transport chain components could be involved in light sensing for the regulation of nuclear-encoded chloroplast gene expression. In contrast, no correlation was found between the reduction state of PSII and various indicators of the PSII light-harvesting system, such as the chlorophyll a-to-b ratio, the abundance of the major pigment-protein complex of PSII (LHCII), the mRNA level of LHCII, the light-saturation curve of O2 evolution, and the induced chlorophyll-fluorescence rise. We conclude that the chlorophyll antenna size of PSII is not governed by the redox state of PSII in higher plants and, consequently, regulation of early light-inducible protein synthesis is different from that of LHCII.
The sbeIIa and sbeIIb genes, encoding starch-branching enzyme (SBE) IIa and SBEIIb in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), have been isolated. The 5' portions of the two genes are strongly divergent, primarily due to the 2064-nucleotide-long intron 2 in sbeIIb. The sequence of this intron shows that it contains a retro-transposon-like element. Expression of sbeIIb but not sbeIIa was found to be endosperm specific. The temporal expression patterns for sbeIIa and sbeIIb were similar and peaked around 12 d after pollination. DNA gel-blot analysis demonstrated that sbeIIa and sbeIIb are both single-copy genes in the barley genome. By fluorescence in situ hybridization, the sbeIIa and sbeIIb genes were mapped to chromosomes 2 and 5, respectively. The cDNA clones for SBEIIa and SBEIIb were isolated and sequenced. The amino acid sequences of SBEIIa and SBEIIb were almost 80% identical. The major structural difference between the two enzymes was the presence of a 94-amino acid N-terminal extension in the SBEIIb precursor. The (beta/alpha)8-barrel topology of the alpha-amylase superfamily and the catalytic residues implicated in branching enzymes are conserved in both barley enzymes.
A barley gene encoding a novel DNA-binding protein (HRT) was identified by southwestern screening with baits containing a gibberellin phytohormone response element from an alpha-amylase promoter. The HRT gene contains two introns, the larger of which (5722 base pairs (bp)) contains a 3094-bp LINE-like element with homology to maize Colonist1. In vitro mutagenesis and zinc- and DNA-binding assays demonstrate that HRT contains three unusual zinc fingers with a CX8-9CX10CX2H consensus sequence. HRT is targeted to nuclei, and homologues are expressed in other plants. In vivo, functional tests in plant cells indicate that full-length HRT can repress expression from certain promoters including the Amy1/6-4 and Amy2/32 alpha-amylase promoters. In contrast, truncated forms of HRT containing DNA-binding domains can activate, or derepress, transcription from these promoters. Northern hybridizations indicate that HRT mRNA accumulates to low levels in various tissues. Roles for HRT in mediating developmental and phytohormone-responsive gene expression are discussed.
A peptide transport gene (HvPTR1) expressed in the scutella of germinating barley grain has been cloned by an RT-PCR approach. Sequence analysis of the full length cDNA (2260 bp) revealed an open reading frame encoding a 579 amino acid protein of predicted molecular mass 63 kDa, which displayed 58% identity to the Arabidopsis thaliana peptide transporter AtPTR2-B. Expression of HvPTR1 in Xenopus laevis oocytes conferred a 48-fold increase in alanyl-[14C]phenylalanine uptake relative to water injected oocytes, confirming the function of HvPTR1 as a peptide transporter. HvPTR1 expression was detectable only in the scutellum of the germinating barley grain, with no transcript found in roots, shoots or the embryo axis. Transcript levels increased rapidly from 6 to 24 h imbibition, correlating with the development of peptide transport activity in the barley scutellum. Peptide transport provides a significant source of organic nitrogen to the barley embryo for use in germination and growth processes associated with the early stages of seedling development. The temporal and spatial pattern of HvPTR1 expression is consistent with a central role for HvPTR1 in the transport of peptides in the germinating barley grain.
A cDNA encoding a bZIP transcription factor was obtained from barley endosperm and used to identify the corresponding gene from a genomic library. The gene, designated Blz1, contained six exons and five introns, plus a 442 nt-long 5'-untranslated leader sequence, and was located on chromosome 5H. The Blz1 mRNA was detected early in endosperm development and was also expressed in roots and leaves. The BLZ1 protein was a potent transcriptional activator in a yeast system; 85% of its activity was associated with the first 203 amino acid residues at the N-terminus, which included two acidic regions. Presumptive involvement of Blz1 in the regulation of gene expression in endosperm was ascertained by the DNA-binding properties of BLZ1 in electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) and by transient expression in barley developing endosperms, using, as effectors, Blz1 in both sense and anti-sense orientations. In the co-bombardment experiments, the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reported gene responded to Blz1 if under the control of the endosperm-specific ltr1 promoter or under a synthetic promoter containing the endosperm box of gene Hor2. Sucrose synthase promoters Ss1 and Ss2 and synthetic promoters containing mutated sequences of Hor2 were unaffected in trans by Blz1.
A cDNA clone was isolated by differential hybridization from a library prepared from barley leaves inoculated with the fungus Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh). The open reading frame of the insert (designated HvCHS2) encoded a polypeptide with 72-79% identity to chalcone synthases (CHS) and 65-68% identity to stilbene synthases. Alignments of the amino acid sequence of HvCHS2 with the consensus sequence of naringenin-CHS (EC 2.3.1.74) reveals significant differences between HvCHS2 and naringenin-CHS. HvCHS2 transcripts accumulate strongly in barley leaves in response to inoculation with Bgh, whereas only insignificant accumulation of barley naringenin-CHS (CHS1) transcripts is seen upon the inoculation. The accumulation of HvCHS2 transcripts is also elicited by UV light. To compare the activity of HvCHS2 with the activity of CHS1, the two enzymes were expressed in Escherichia coli. Both HvCHS2 and CHS1 catalyse the formation of chalcones. However, HvCHS2 and CHS1 differ in their substrate requirements. CHS1 uses cinnamoyl-CoA and 4-coumaroyl-CoA at comparable rates whereas feruloyl-CoA is a poor substrate for this enzyme. In contrast, HvCHS2 converts feruloyl-CoA and caffeoyl-CoA at the highest rate whereas cinnamoyl-CoA is a poor substrate. Thus, HvCHS2 is a novel pathogen and UV light induces homoeriodictyol/eriodictyol CHS involved in the direct production of flavonoids possessing multi-substituted B-rings.
The homology modelling technique was used to predict the tertiary structures of three members of the low-temperature-inducible barley vegetative shoot epidermal lipid-transfer protein (LTP) family, BLT4, on the basis of the X-ray crystallographically determined three-dimensional structure of a maize seedling LTP. Differences between the maize LTP and the BLT4 family include amino acid substitutions around the entrance and inside the predicted hydrophobic binding tunnels of these proteins. Because of the deletion of the loop region corresponding to Val60-Gly62 of the maize LTP from all three BLT4 LTPs, their internal hydrophobic tunnels are longer. Molecular dynamics modelling shows that BLT4.9 can accommodate hexadecanoic acid in its binding tunnel in similar conformation to the maize LTP. However, modelled cis,cis-9, 12-octadecandienoic acid had a more favourable interaction with the BLT4.9 LTP than with the maize protein. Di-cis,cis-9, 12-octadecandienoyl phosphatidylglycerol and di-cis,cis-9, 12-octadecandienoyl phosphatidylcholine were modelled in the BLT4.9 structure with the fatty acyl group at position 1 embedded in the binding tunnel and the group at position 2 located on the solvent accessible surface of the protein. The results of the modelling suggest that the phospholipid headgroup can form hydrogen and salt bridges with polar and charged residues outside the binding tunnel and the exposed hydrocarbon chain interacts with hydrophobic amino acids on the surface. These results are consistent with the proposal that BLT4 LTPs have a lipid-transfer function associated with frost acclimation in barley.
The maize lesion mimic gene Les22 is defined by dominant mutations and characterized by the production of minute necrotic spots on leaves in a developmentally specified and light-dependent manner. Phenotypically, Les22 lesions resemble those that are triggered during a hypersensitive disease resistance response of plants to pathogens. We have cloned Les22 by using a Mutator-tagging technique. It encodes uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (UROD), a key enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway of chlorophyll and heme in plants. Urod mutations in humans are also dominant and cause the metabolic disorder porphyria, which manifests itself as light-induced skin morbidity resulting from an excessive accumulation of photoexcitable uroporphyrin. The phenotypic and genetic similarities between porphyria and Les22 along with our observation that Les22 is also associated with an accumulation of uroporphyrin revealed what appears to be a case of natural porphyria in plants.
To confer abscisic acid (ABA) and/or stress-inducible gene expression, an ABA-response complex (ABRC1) from the barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) HVA22 gene was fused to four different lengths of the 5' region from the rice (Oryza sativa L.) Act1 gene. Transient assay of beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity in barley aleurone cells shows that, coupled with ABRC1, the shortest minimal promoter (Act1-100P) gives both the greatest induction and the highest level of absolute activity following ABA treatment. Two plasmids with one or four copies of ABRC1 combined with the same Act1-100P and HVA22(I) of barley HVA22 were constructed and used for stable expression of uidA in transgenic rice plants. Three Southern blot-positive lines with the correct hybridization pattern for each construct were obtained. Northern analysis indicated that uidA expression is induced by ABA, water-deficit, and NaCl treatments. GUS activity assays in the transgenic plants confirmed that the induction of GUS activity varies from 3- to 8-fold with different treatments or in different rice tissues, and that transgenic rice plants harboring four copies of ABRC1 show 50% to 200% higher absolute GUS activity both before and after treatments than those with one copy of ABRC1.
Tissues expressing mRNAs of three cold-induced genes, blt101, blt14, and blt4.9, and a control gene, elongation factor 1alpha, were identified in the crown and immature leaves of cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Igri). Hardiness and tissue damage were assessed. blt101 and blt4.9 mRNAs were not detected in control plants; blt14 was expressed in control plants but only in the inner layers of the crown cortex. blt101 was expressed in many tissues of cold-acclimated plants but most strongly in the vascular-transition zone of the crown; blt14 was expressed only in the inner layers of the cortex and in cell layers partly surrounding vascular bundles in the vascular-transition zone; expression of blt4.9, which codes for a nonspecific lipid-transfer protein, was confined to the epidermis of the leaf and to the epidermis of the older parts of the crown. None of the cold-induced genes was expressed in the tunica, although the control gene was most strongly expressed there. Thus, the molecular aspects of acclimation differed markedly between tissues. Damage in the vascular-transition zone of the crown correlated closely with plant survival. Therefore, the strong expression of blt101 and blt14 in this zone may indicate a direct role in freezing tolerance of the crown.
The Tenuivirus maize stripe virus (MStV) shares many properties with viruses in the genus Phlebovirus of the family Bunyaviridae. Besides genome organization and gene expression strategies, one property shared by these plant- and vertebrate-infecting viruses is that transcription gives rise to virus-specific mRNAs containing nonviral 5'-terminal nucleotide sequences. The 5'-terminal nucleotides are believed to be derived from host mRNA sequences as a result of "cap-snatching." We investigated whether specific nucleotide sequences could serve as primer donors for cap-snatching in vivo. Barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants were singly and doubly infected with MStV and the Hordeivirus barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV). A reverse transcription-PCR assay was used to identify chimeric BSMV/MStV RNAs. Specific reverse transcription-PCR products were detected from doubly infected plants by using one PCR primer corresponding to the 5' termini of the BSMV RNAs (alpha, beta, and gamma) and a second primer complementary to MStV RNA 4. The resulting cDNAs were cloned, and nucleotide sequence analysis showed them to be chimeric, containing BSMV 5'-terminal sequences as well as MStV RNA 4 sequences. All clones contained the BSMV RNA 5' primer nucleotide sequence, but they also showed characteristics common to Tenuivirus mRNAs. More than 80% of the clones contained BSMV RNA nucleotides not present on the PCR primer. Several lacked the exact 5' terminus of MStV RNA 4, a feature also seen for viruses in the Bunyaviridae. These data show that heterologous virus RNAs (BSMV) can serve as primer donors for MStV mRNA capped RNA-primed transcription in doubly infected plants.
The wild ancestor of cultivated barley, Hordeum vulgare subsp. spontaneum (K. Koch) A. & Gr. (H. spontaneum), is a source of wide genetic diversity, including traits that are important for malting quality. A high beta-amylase trait was previously identified in H. spontaneum strains from Israel, and transferred into the backcross progeny of a cross with the domesticated barley cv Adorra. We have used Southern-blot analysis and beta-amy1 gene characterization to demonstrate that the high beta-amylase trait in the backcross line is co-inherited with the beta-amy1 gene from the H. spontaneum parent. We have analyzed the beta-amy1 gene organization in various domesticated and wild-type barley strains and identified three distinct beta-amy1 alleles. Two of these beta-amy1 alleles were present in modern barley, one of which was specifically found in good malting barley cultivars. The third allele, linked with high grain beta-amylase activity, was found only in a H. spontaneum strain from the Judean foothills in Israel. The sequences of three isolated beta-amy1 alleles are compared. The involvement of specific intron III sequences, in particular a 126-bp palindromic insertion, in the allele-dependent expression of beta-amylase activity in barley grain is proposed.
To broaden our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of gibberellin (GA) action, we isolated a spindly clone (HvSPY) from barley cultivar Himalaya and tested whether the HvSPY protein would modulate GA action in barley aleurone. The HvSPY cDNA showed high sequence identity to Arabidopsis SPY along its entire length, and the barley protein functionally complemented the spy-3 mutation. HvSPY and SPY proteins showed sequence relatedness with animal O-linked N-acetylglucosamine transferases (OGTs), suggesting that they may also have OGT activity. HvSPY has a locus distinct from that of Sln, a mutation that causes the constitutive GA responses of slender barley, which phenotypically resembles Arabidopsis spy mutants. The possibility that the HvSPY gene encodes a negative regulator of GA action was tested by expressing HvSPY in a barley aleurone transient assay system. HvSPY coexpression largely abolished GA3-induced activity of an alpha-amylase promoter. Surprisingly, HvSPY coexpression increased reporter gene activity from an abscisic acid (ABA)-inducible gene promoter (dehydrin), even in the absence of exogenous ABA. These results show that HvSPY modulates the transcriptional activities of two hormonally regulated promoters: negatively for a GA-induced promoter and positively for an ABA-induced promoter.
A cDNA clone with sequence homology to soluble inorganic pyrophosphatase (IPPase) was isolated from a library of developing barley grains. The protein encoded by this clone was produced in transgenic Escherichia coli, and showed IPPase activity. In nondormant barley grains, the gene appeared to be expressed in metabolically active tissue such as root, shoot, embryo and aleurone. During inhibition, a continuous increase of the steady state mRNA level of IPPase was observed in embryos of non-dormant grains. In the embryos of dormant grains its production declined, after an initial increase. With isolated dormant and nondormant embryos, addition of recombinant IPPase, produced by E. coli, enhanced the germination rate. On the other hand, addition of pyrophosphate (PPi), substrate for this enzyme, appeared to reduce the germination rate. A role for this IPPase in germination is discussed.
The primary leaves of young barley seedlings contain two major, extracellular, acid-soluble proteins of ca. 22 and 23 kDa apparent molecular mass. These proteins disappeared from the intercellular washing fluid upon stress treatments that enhanced H2O2 levels and that induced resistance to subsequent challenge by the powdery mildew fungus Erysiphe graminis f. sp. hordei. A partial peptide sequence of the 22 kDa protein was determined, and a cDNA clone was isolated. The 22 kDa protein belongs the the group of germin-like proteins (GLPs) and was designated HvGLP1. Despite its similarity to germin, i.e. oxalate oxidase, no oxalate oxidase activity of HvGLP1 could be detected. The RNA and soluble protein of HvGLP1 was highly abundant in young leaves, less abundant in older leaves and absent in roots. HvGLP1 RNA oscillated with a circadian rhythm, the minimum and maximum of RNA abundance being at the end of the dark and light periods, respectively. Heat and H2O2 treatment as well as pathogen infection caused disappearance of HvGLP1 protein from the fraction of soluble proteins of the intercellular space. HvGLP1 protein could be re-solubilized from cell walls of heat- or H2O2-treated leaves by boiling in SDS suggesting non-covalent cross linking. Although a physiological role of HvGLP1 insolubilization is still open, the protein may serve as marker for oxidative stress in cereals.
Efficient production of recombinant barley alpha-amylase has been achieved in Aspergillus niger. The cDNA encoding alpha-amylase isozyme 1 (AMY1) and its signal peptide was placed under the control of the Aspergillus nidulans glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (gpd) promoter and the A. nidulans trpC gene terminator. Secretion yields up to 60 mg/l were obtained in media optimised for alpha-amylase activity and low protease activity. The recombinant AMY1 (reAMY1) was purified to homogeneity and found to be identical to native barley AMY1 with respect to size, pI, and immunoreactivity. N-terminal sequence analysis of the recombinant protein indicated that the endogenous plant signal peptide is correctly processed in A. niger. Electrospray ionisation/mass spectrometry gave a molecular mass for the dominant form of 44,960 Da, in accordance with the loss of the LQRS C-terminal residues; glycosylation apparently did not occur. The activities of recombinant and native barley alpha-amylases are very similar towards insoluble and soluble starch as well as 2-chloro-4-nitrophenol beta-D-maltoheptaoside and amylose (degree of polymerisation = 17). Barley alpha-amylase is the first plant protein efficiently secreted and correctly processed by A. niger using its own signal sequence.
Brome mosaic bromovirus (BMV) 3a protein is required for cell-to-cell movement of the virus in host plants. The BMV 3a protein (B3a) was produced in Escherichia coli using an expression vector. Gel retardation analysis and UV cross-linking experiments demonstrated that B3a bound single-stranded RNA cooperatively without sequence specificity. Binding competition analysis showed that B3a bound to single-stranded nucleic acids more strongly than to double-stranded nucleic acids. Deletion mutagenesis located a nucleic acid-binding domain to amino acids 189-242. Western blot analysis of fractionated proteins of BMV-infected barley using monoclonal antibodies against B3a indicated that B3a may interact with membrane materials and form complexes in the cytoplasm. Immunogold labelling of thin sections of infected barley tissues revealed that B3a was associated with plasmodesmata and cytoplasmic inclusions.
Previously we reported that oxalate oxidase activity increases in extracts of barley (Hordeum vulgare) leaves in response to the powdery mildew fungus (Blumeria [syn. Erysiphe] graminis f.sp. hordei) and proposed this as a source of H2O2 during plant-pathogen interactions. In this paper we show that the N terminus of the major pathogen-response oxalate oxidase has a high degree of sequence identity to previously characterized germin-like oxalate oxidases. Two cDNAs were isolated, pHvOxOa, which represents this major enzyme, and pHvOxOb', representing a closely related enzyme. Our data suggest the presence of only two oxalate oxidase genes in the barley genome, i.e. a gene encoding HvOxOa, which possibly exists in several copies, and a single-copy gene encoding HvOxOb. The use of 3' end gene-specific probes has allowed us to demonstrate that the HvOxOa transcript accumulates to 6 times the level of the HvOxOb transcript in response to the powdery mildew fungus. The transcripts were detected in both compatible and incompatible interactions with a similar accumulation pattern. The oxalate oxidase is found exclusively in the leaf mesophyll, where it is cell wall located. A model for a signal transduction pathway in which oxalate oxidase plays a central role is proposed for the regulation of the hypersensitive response.
Dichloroacetamide safeners protect maize (Zea mays L.) against injury from chloroacetanilide and thiocarbamate herbicides. Etiolated maize seedlings have a high-affinity cytosolic-binding site for the safener [3H](R,S)-3-dichloroacetyl-2,2,5-trimethyl-1, 3-oxazol-idine ([3H]Saf), and this safener-binding activity (SafBA) is competitively inhibited by the herbicides. The safener-binding protein (SafBP), purified to homogeneity, has a relative molecular weight of 39,000, as shown by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and an isoelectric point of 5.5. Antiserum raised against purified SafBP specifically recognizes a 39-kD protein in etiolated maize and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.), which have SafBA, but not in etiolated wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), oat (Avena sativa L.), barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.), or Arabidopsis, which lack SafBA. SafBP is most abundant in the coleoptile and scarcest in the leaves, consistent with the distribution of SafBA. SBP1, a cDNA encoding SafBP, was cloned using polymerase chain reaction primers based on purified proteolytic peptides. Extracts of Escherichia coli cells expressing SBP1 have strong [3H]Saf binding, which, like binding to the native maize protein, is competitively inhibited by the safener dichlormid and the herbicides S-ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate, alachlor, and metolachlor. SBP1 is predicted to encode a phenolic O-methyltransferase, but SafBP does not O-methylate catechol or caffeic acid. The acquisition of its encoding gene opens experimental approaches for the evaluation of the role of SafBP in response to the relevant safeners and herbicides.
The plant hormones abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellic acid (GA) are important regulators of the dormancy and germination of seeds. In cereals, GA enhances the synthesis and secretion of enzymes (principally alpha-amylases) in the aleurone cells of the endosperm, which then mobilize the storage reserves that fuel germination. ABA inhibits this enhanced secretory activity and delays germination. Despite the central role of ABA in regulating germination, the signal transduction events leading to altered gene expression and cellular activity are essentially unknown. We report that the application of ABA to aleurone protoplasts increased the activity of the enzyme phospholipase D (PLD) 10 min after treatment. The product of PLD activity, phosphatidic acid (PPA), also increased transiently at this time. The application of PPA to aleurone protoplasts led to an ABA-like inhibition of alpha-amylase production, and induction of the ABA up-regulated proteins ASI (amylase subtilisin inhibitor) and RAB (responsive to ABA). Inhibition of PLD activity by 0.1% 1-butanol during the initial 20 min of ABA treatment resulted in inhibition of ABA-regulated processes. This inhibition coincided with the timing of PLD activation by ABA and was overcome by simultaneous addition of PPA. These results suggest that ABA activates the enzyme PLD to produce PPA that is involved in triggering the subsequent ABA responses of the aleurone cell.
A fragment of the NDH-F subunit of the plastid NAD(P)H dehydrogenase complex (NAD(P)H-plastoquinone-oxidoreductase) from barley was expressed as a fusion protein in Escherichia coli and an antibody to the fusion protein was prepared. Western blot analysis using the anti-NDH-F antibody showed specificity towards a plastid polypeptide of approximately 70 kDa present in both photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic barley tissue. The polypeptide was found in thylakoid membranes of green leaves whereas in etiolated leaves it was shown to be associated with the membrane fraction of etioplasts. NDH-F levels were higher in roots and etiolated tissue than in greening or young leaves. During leaf ontogeny, NDH-F levels decreased from young to mature tissue but increased during senescence. The accumulation of NDH-F in thylakoids of young leaves was stimulated by photooxidative treatment. The results indicate a high degree of expression of plastid ndh genes (which encode NAD(P)H dehydrogenase subunits) in non-photosynthetic plastids and under conditions which impair the photosynthetic activity of chloroplasts. In addition to its putative implication in photosynthetic electron transport, a non-photosynthetic role, such as chlororespiration, is proposed for the plastid NAD(P)H dehydrogenase complex.
The highly specific recognition of a natural cytokinin, trans-zeatin, by cytokinin-binding protein (CBP) of 67 kDa from barley leaves was detected with an assay developed on the basis of cytokinin competition in ELISA with anti-idiotype antibodies (raised against antibodies to zeatin) for complex formation with CBP. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) raised against 70 kDa CBP from etiolated maize seedlings cross-reacted with barley 67 kDa CBP and prevented barley CBP and trans-zeatin induced activation of transcription elongation directed by RNA polymerase I associated with barley chromatin. One mAb (Z-6) had an agonistic effect. Maize CBP replaced barley CBP in activation of RNA synthesis with cytokinin in the barley transcription system. Hence, a new family of cytokinin receptors with common functions and immunodeterminants including maize and barley CBPs was found.
The contiguous DNA sequence of a 60 kb genomic interval of barley chromosome 4HL has been assembled. The region harbours a single and novel gypsy -like retrotransposon, designated BAGY-1. Only three genes appear to reside in the genomic stretch. One predicts a plant homologue of ribophorin I, a subunit of the oligosaccharyltransferase-protein complex located in the rough endoplasmatic reticulum. The second is similar to the Drosophila g1 gene encoding a ring finger protein involved in developmental processes. The observed gene density is approximately 5-fold lower than in the best characterized dicot genome of Arabidopsis but 6- to 10-fold higher than expected from an equidistant gene distribution in the complex barley genome. Our data suggest that the 60 kb genomic interval represents part of a gene island, a seemingly distinctive feature of grass genomes.
We found three methyl jasmonate-induced lipoxygenases with molecular masses of 92 kDa, 98 kDa, and 100 kDa (LOX-92, -98 and -100) [Feussner, I., Hause, B., Vörös, K., Parthier, B. & Wasternack, C. (1995) Plant J. 7, 949-957]. At least two of them (LOX-92 and LOX-100), were shown to be localized within chloroplasts of barley leaves. Here, we describe the isolation of a cDNA (3073 bp) coding for LOX-100, a protein of 936 amino acid residues and a molecular mass of 106 kDa. By sequence comparison this lipoxygenase could be identified as LOX2-type lipoxygenase and was therefore designated LOX2:Hv:1. The recombinant lipoxygenase was expressed in Escherichia coli and characterized as linoleate 13-LOX and arachidonate 15-LOX, respectively. The enzyme exhibited a pH optimum around pH 7.0 and a moderate substrate preference for linoleic acid. The gene was transiently expressed after exogenous application of jasmonic acid methyl ester with a maximum between 12 h and 18 h. Its expression was not affected by exogenous application of abscisic acid. Also a rise of endogenous jasmonic acid resulting from sorbitol stress did not induce LOX2:Hv:1, suggesting a separate signalling pathway compared with other jasmonate-induced proteins of barley. The properties of LOX2:Hv:1 are discussed in relation to its possible involvement in jasmonic acid biosynthesis and other LOX forms of barley identified so far.
To identify the proteins induced by Fe deficiency, we have compared the proteins of Fe-sufficient and Fe-deficient barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) roots by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Peptide sequence analysis of induced proteins revealed that formate dehydrogenase (FDH), adenine phosphoribosyltransferase, and the lds3 gene product (for Fe deficiency-specific) increased in Fe-deficient roots. FDH enzyme activity was detected in Fe-deficient roots but not in Fe-sufficient roots. A cDNA encoding FDH (Fdh) was cloned and sequenced. Fdh expression was induced by Fe deficiency. Fdh was also expressed under anaerobic stress and its expression was more rapid than that induced by Fe deficiency. Thus, the expression of Fdh observed in Fe-deficient barley roots appeared to be a secondary effect caused by oxygen deficiency in Fe-deficient plants.
Transcription of plastid genes in higher plants is driven by two RNA polymerases. One is encoded in the chloroplast, the other is encoded in the nucleus. RNA synthesis in ribosome-deficient plastids is performed exclusively by the nuclear-encoded enzyme. In vitro capping was used to identify the transcriptional start sites of the genes clpP and rpl23 in ribosome-free plastids of the barley mutant albostrians. No transcript initiation was found at sequences similar to eubacterial promoters. Instead, transcription started near the motif 5'-YRTA-3', which is also conserved in mitochondrial promoters of higher plants. Our data suggest that the nuclear encoded RNA polymerase is active in mature chloroplasts and is the sole polymerase involved in transcription of rpl123.
A cDNA clone of a defence response transcript was isolated from a library prepared from barley leaves expressing papilla resistance towards the powdery mildew fungus, Blumeria (syn. Erysiphe) graminis f.sp. hordei (Bgh). The 904 bp sequence encodes a 229 amino acid polypeptide with a putative signal peptide of 23 amino acids. After cleavage, the protein has a mass of 22.3 kDa and exhibits up to 60% amino acid identity to certain dicot proteins, and 46% amino acid identity to barley oxalate oxidase; therefore we designated it HvOxOLP (for Hordeum vulgare oxalate oxidase-like protein). Single-base substitutions among several cDNA and RACE clones demonstrate a gene of many copies. Both the transcript and protein accumulate from 3 h after inoculation with Bgh. The transcript level peaks at 18-24 h and subsequently decreases, whereas the protein level is stable from 24 h after inoculation. The accumulation patterns are independent of the outcome of the barley/powdery mildew interaction, unlike that of PR proteins, for example. The transcript accumulates specifically in the inoculated epidermal tissue. This temporal and spatial expression pattern suggests a very close relationship to papilla formation. Immunoblot analyses have facilitated a demonstration that HvOxOLP, like oxalate oxidase, is a water-soluble 100 kDa oligomeric protein. The oligomer is heat-stable and SDS-tolerant, and it can be denatured into a 25 kDa monomer. Attempts to demonstrate oxalate oxidase activity for this protein have failed. However, the relationships to oxalate oxidase suggests that HvOxOLP may be involved in H2O2 generation necessary for, for example, cross-linking of cell wall components during formation of papillae.
We have shown previously that transcripts corresponding to the cDNA clone pBH72-F1, with similarities to O-methyltransferases (OMT), accumulated in barley leaves in response to attack by the pathogenic fungus Blumeria graminis (Plant Mol Biol 26 (1994) 1797). To investigate the accumulation pattern in the defence response and the organ localization of the pBH72-F1-encoded polypeptide (F1-OMT), an antiserum was raised against Escherichia coli expressed F1-OMT. The 43 kDa protein was absent in normal leaves but accumulated strongly in response to pathogen attack. The F1-OMT protein accumulated faster in barley lines inoculated with an avirulent B. graminis isolates compared to a virulent isolate. Additionally, F1-OMT related proteins were detected in developing kernels. F1-OMT was expressed as a functional enzyme in E. coli and the substrate specificity was investigated. The enzyme exhibited OMT activity towards flavonoid aglycones with the highest activity against apigenin (4',5,7-trihydroxyflavone). In contrast, caffeic acid did not serve as substrate for F1-OMT. The product of F1-OMT was analyzed by HPLC and GC-MS and found to be genkwanin (4',5-dihydroxy-7-methoxyflavone). Initial velocity data were best represented by a sequential bi-bi mechanism, and kinetic parameters of KSAM = 10.9 microM, Kapigenin = 4.6 microM and a specific activity of 0.45 mukat/g were obtained. Barley F1-OMT, apigenin 7-O-methyltransferase, is suggested to be involved in the production of a methylated flavonoid phytoalexin.
ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase), a two-gene-encoded enzyme, is the key component of starch synthesis in all plants. In the present study, we have used an E. coli expression system for the (over)production of proteins derived from both full length and specifically truncated cDNAs encoding small subunits of AGPase from seed endosperm (AGPase-B1) and leaves (AGPase-B2) of barley (Hordeum vulgare). Based on immunoblot analyses, the molecular mass of the expressed AGPase-B1 (52 kD) was similar to that from endosperm extracts, whereas the expressed AGPase-B2 (56 kD) was larger than that in barley leaves (51 kD). Expression of truncated cDNAs for both the seed and leaf proteins has allowed for a direct verification of molecular masses that were earlier proposed for mature AGPases in barley tissues. The data suggest that seed AGPase-B1 does not undergo any post-translational proteolytic processing in barley, whereas the leaf homologue is processed to a smaller protein. Possible implications of these findings are discussed.
A cDNA encoding a high-affinity sulphate transporter has been isolated from barley by complementation of a yeast mutant. The cDNA, designated HVST1, encodes a polypeptide of 660 amino acids (M(r) = 72,550), which is predicted to have 12 membrane-spanning domains and has extensive sequence homology with other identified eukaryotic sulphate transporters. The K(m) for sulphate was 6.9 microM when the HVST1 cDNA was expressed in a yeast mutant deficient in the gene encoding for the yeast SUL1 sulphate transporter. The strong pH-dependency of sulphate uptake when HVST1 was expressed heterologously in yeast suggests that the HVST1 polypeptide is a proton/sulphate co-transporter. The gene encoding HVST1 is expressed specifically in root tissues and the abundance of the mRNA is strongly influenced by sulphur nutrition. During sulphur-starvation of barley, the abundance of mRNA corresponding to HVST1, and the capacity of the roots to take up sulphate, both increase. Upon re-supply of sulphate, the abundance of the mRNA corresponding to HVST1, and the capacity of the roots to take up sulphate, decrease rapidly, concomitant with rises in tissue sulphate, cysteine and glutathione contents. Addition of the cysteine precursor, O-acetylserine, to plants grown with adequate sulphur supply, leads to increases in sulphate transporter mRNA, sulphate uptake rates and tissue contents of glutathione and cysteine. It is suggested, that whilst sulphate, cysteine and glutathione may be candidates for negative metabolic regulators of sulphate transporter gene expression, this regulation may be overridden by O-acetylserine acting as a positive regulator.
The transcription factors VP1 (Viviparous-1), EmBP-1 (Em-binding protein 1) and OSBZ8, originally cloned and analysed in various monocot species, have been implicated in the regulation of the Lea (late embryogenesis-abundant) group 1 genes. We have investigated the modulation of the levels of these mRNAs in barley during embryogenesis, and in developing embryos subjected to various kinds of osmotic stress. The accumulation of mRNA for VP1 and EmBP-1 transcription factors, using cDNAs cloned from barley, starts at 10 and 15 days after anthesis, respectively, whereas Lea B19 mRNA levels are very low or undetectable until 25 days after anthesis during normal development. The EmBP-1 mRNA is predominantly induced in mannitol-stressed immature embryos. Vp1 mRNA was not significantly modulated by ABA, salt or mannitol. Inhibition of ABA biosynthesis by norflurazon showed that the induction of both Vp1 and EmBP-1 mRNAs was ABA-independent. In embryo-derived suspension-cultured cells, neither of the two transcripts would be induced by ABA or osmotic stress, although both OSBZ8 and one member of the Lea B19 family was up-regulated by ABA. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays using a Lea B19.1 probe with an ABRE (abscisic acid-responsive element) similar to that which binds EmBP-1 and OSBZ8 in the wheat and rice Em promoters show that the binding activity is increased by ABA and osmotic stress. Taken together, these data show that both VP1 and EmBP-1 are involved in embryo-specific signal transduction pathways, that they are differentially regulated at the mRNA level, and that EmBP-1 can be induced by osmotic stress independently of any increase in endogenous ABA. The difference in mRNA regulation patterns of OSBZ8 and EmBP-1 may suggest that they are involved in different signal transduction pathways in connection with osmotic stress/ABA regulation of Lea genes.
The nucellar cells of barley undergo progressive degeneration after ovule fertilization. This degeneration is a characteristic of programmed cell death. Increasing evidence has indicated that proteases are important regulators of programmed cell death in animals. We have cloned and characterized a barley gene which encodes an aspartic protease-like protein and is specifically expressed in nucellar cells during degeneration. The gene contains eight exons and seven introns and encodes a polypeptide of 410 amino acid residues. The deduced polypeptide is characterized by having two aspartic protease catalytic site motifs, the Asp-Thr-Gly-Ser in the N-terminal and Asp-Ser-Gly-Ser in the C-terminal region, and two other regions nearly identical to two regions of plant aspartic proteases. However, it shares < 20% overall sequence identity with the known plant aspartic proteases, and does not contain a 'prosequence' or a 'plant-specific insert' which are characteristics of plant aspartic proteases. We have named this aspartic protease-like protein 'nucellin'. In northern analyses nucellin transcripts were most abundant in ovaries 3-4 days after pollination, but only marginally detectable before pollination or 10 days after pollination. RNA in situ hybridization showed that before pollination the nucellin gene was expressed at a very low level only in a cluster of nucellar cells close to the embryo sac at the chalazal end, but after pollination it was highly expressed in most nucellar cells surrounding the entire embryo sac. Furthermore, no nucellin transcripts were detectable in anther, leaf, or root tissue. The temporal and spatial pattern of the nucellin gene expression is synchronal with nucellar cell degeneration and thus, nucellin may be involved with nucellar cell death.
We investigated transgenic tobacco lines which express different amounts of the barley JIP 23. In these plants the amount of several proteins decreased proportionally to increasing amounts of JIP 23 whereas the transcript levels were constant as determined for the small and the large subunit of RuBPCase. However, the translation initiation of the rbcS transcript was found to be less efficient than in the wild type. In contrast, the jip 23 transcript was efficiently initiated, indicating that no unspecific impairment of initiation occurred. The data suggest that the barley JIP 23 leads to discrimination among certain tobacco transcripts during translation initiation.
We have investigated the regulation of ferredoxin-glutamate synthase (Fd-GOGAT) in leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Maris Mink) at the mRNA, protein and enzyme activity levels. Studies of the changes in Fd-GOGAT during plant development showed that the activity in shoots increases rapidly after germination to reach a maximum (on a fresh-weight basis) at day 10 and then declines markedly to less than 50% of the maximal activity by day 30, this decline being correlated with an equivalent loss of Fd-GOGAT protein. Growing the plants in darkness reduced the maximum activity attained in the shoots, but did not affect the overall pattern of the changes or their timing. The activity of Fd-GOGAT increased two- to three-fold within 48 h when etiolated leaves were exposed to light, and Northern blots indicated that the induction occurred at the mRNA level. However, whilst a carbon source could at least partially substitute for light in the induction of nitrate reductase activity, no induction of Fd-GOGAT activity was seen when etiolated leaves were treated with either sucrose or glucose. Interestingly, the levels of Fd-GOGAT mRNA and activity remained high up to a period of 16 h or 72 h darkness, respectively. Compared with plants grown in N-free medium, light-grown plants supplied with nitrate had almost two-fold higher Fd-GOGAT activities and increased Fd-GOGAT mRNA levels, but nitrate had no effect on the abundance of the enzyme or its mRNA in etiolated plants, indicating that light is required for nitrate induction of barley Fd-GOGAT.
The homeobox gene, knotted1, (kn1) is expressed in shoot meristems and is required for maintaining indeterminacy and preventing cellular differentiation. Awns, extensions of the bract-like lemma found in all grass inflorescences, are normally determinate structures. We show that ectopic expression of kn1 in the barley awn is sufficient to direct the development of ectopic meristems, forming inflorescence-like structures. This homeotic transformation is similar to the phenotype produced by misexpression of the barley hvknox3 gene, associated with the dominant Hooded mutant (Müller, K. J., Romano, N., Gerstner, O., Garcia-Maroto, F., Pozzi, C., Salamini, F. and Rohde, W. (1995) Nature 374, 727-730). We suggest that the inverse polarity of the ectopic flowers seen in Hooded and transgenic kn1 plants results from the transformation of the awn into reiterative inflorescence axes. We observed that the protein and mRNA localization of the transgene, driven by a constitutive promoter, is similar to the expression pattern of hvknox3 in awns of Hooded mutants, suggesting posttranscriptional regulation.
P-glycoproteins are members of a large superfamily of transport proteins (the 'traffic ATPases') that utilize ATP to translocate a wide range of substrates across biological membranes. Using a PCR-based approach, and degenerate oligonucleotides corresponding to conserved motifs, two 300-bp cDNA fragments (pBMDR1 and pBMDR2) with a significant sequence similarity to mammalian P-glycoproteins were amplified from barley (Hordeum vulgare) root poly A+ RNA and used as probes to screen a barley root cDNA library. A single full-length clone pHVMDR2 coding for a polypeptide of 1232 residues (c. 134 kDa) was isolated. Comparison of this barley sequence with Arabidopsis ATPGP1 and human MDR1 and MDR3 P-glycoprotein sequences showed that the barley cDNA has 44%, 37% and 38% amino acid (aa) identity, respectively, with these sequences, and conserved structural features. RNase protection analysis showed that HVMDR2 mRNA is expressed at low levels in both barley roots and leaves. Southern blot analyses indicated that there is a small multigene family related to P-glycoproteins in barley. Possible functions for these barley P-glycoproteins are discussed.
The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA from 22 diploid and tetraploid annual Bromus species of section Bromus (Poaceae) and three species belonging to other Bromus sections, Bromus catharticus (section Ceratochloa), Bromus anomalus (section Pnigma), and Bromus sterilis (section Genea), were investigated by PCR amplification and direct sequencing. The length of the ITS-1 region varied from 215 to 218 bp, and that of the ITS-2 region from 215 to 216 bp, in the species analyzed. ITS-1 was more variable and provided more informative sites (49) than ITS-2 (32). No variation was encountered within species. In pairwise comparison among species of section Bromus, sequence divergence ranged from 0.0 to 8.0% for the combined ITS-1 and ITS-2 regions. Parsimony analysis using Avena longiglumis and Hordeum vulgare as outgroups resulted in well-resolved phylogenetic trees and showed that section Bromus is monophyletic according to the species analyzed outside of the section. The analysis clarified the phylogenetic relationships among monogenomic (diploid) species. Introduction of the allotetraploid species did not change the general topology of the trees obtained using only the diploid species. Although some tetraploid-diploid species relationships will have to be clarified with faster evolving markers, the ITS sequences are shown to be useful for assessing evolutionary relationships among closely related Bromus species, as well as for clarifying taxonomic problems in previously controversial cases (e.g., Bromus alopecuros and Bromus caroli-henrici). New hypotheses are proposed concerning the origin of several allotetraploid species. For example, it is shown that the tetraploid Bromus hordeaceus diverged earlier than all other species of section Bromus, excluding the diploid B. caroli-henrici, which is found to be basal in this group. The tetraploid Bromus arenarius, which was considered a hybrid between sections Bromus and Genea, and the tetraploid Bromus adoensis are sister taxa within section Bromus; they belong in a weakly differentiated clade with the diploids Bromus brachystachys, Bromus japonicus, Bromus squarrosus, Bromus arvensis, and Bromus intermedius.
We characterized the effects of light on psbD transcription and mRNA levels during chloroplast development in Arabidopsis thaliana. After 6 to 12 hours of illumination of dark-grown seedlings, two psbD mRNAs were detected and their 5' ends were mapped to positions -550 and -190 bp upstream from the psbD translational start codon. Their kinetics of accumulation resembled the accumulation of chloroplast psbA and rbcL mRNAs but differed from the accumulation of the nuclear-encoded Lhcb and Chs mRNAs. A third psbD mRNA with its 5' ends at position -950 accumulated after illumination of > 180 h. The 5' ends of this transcript were mapped to a nucleotide sequence that is highly conserved with functional sequences in the barley (Hordeum vulgare) blue-light-responsive promoter (BLRP). Transcription from the Arabidopsis psbD promoter was 3-fold higher in blue relative to red light, whereas red and blue light affected total chloroplast, rbcL, and 16S rDNA transcription similarly. This study shows that transcription of Arabidopsis psbD is mediated by a BLRP and suggests that psbD genes in other land plants are regulated by a common blue-light-signaling pathway. Isolating the BLRP from Arabidopsis will allow molecular genetic studies aimed at identifying the pertinent photoreceptor and components of this phototransduction pathway.
We have characterized two related cDNAs (RCI2A and RCI2B) corresponding to genes from Arabidopsis thaliana, the expression of which is transiently induced by low, nonfreezing temperatures. RCI2A and RCI2B encode small (54 amino acids), highly hydrophobic proteins that bear two potential transmembrane domains. They show similarity to proteins encoded by genes from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and wheatgrass (Lophophyrum elongatum) that are regulated by different stress conditions. Their high level of sequence homology (78%) and their genomic location in a single restriction fragment suggest that both genes originated as a result of a tandem duplication. However, their regulatory sequences have diverged enough to confer on them different expression patterns. Like most of the cold-inducible plant genes characterized, the expression of RCI2A and RCI2B is also promoted by abscisic acid (ABA) and dehydration but is not a general response to stress conditions, since it is not induced by salt stress or by anaerobiosis. Furthermore, low temperatures are able to induce RCI2A and RCI2B expression in ABA-deficient and -insensitive genetic backgrounds, indicating that both ABA-dependent and -independent pathways regulate the low-temperature responsiveness of these two genes.
Leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Salome) treated with jasmonic acid (JA), its methyl ester (JM), or its amino acid conjugates exhibit up-regulation of specific genes and down-regulation of house-keeping genes. This transcriptional regulation exhibits several specificities. (i) The (-)-enantiomers are more active, and conjugates are mainly active if they carry an L-amino acid moiety. (ii) The various JA-responsive genes respond differentially to enantiomeric and chiralic forms. (iii) Both JA and its amino acid conjugates exhibiting no or negligible interconversion induce/repress genes.
In order to investigate the nature of genes expressed in leaf epidermal cells of higher plants, we have identified the nucleotide sequence of a cDNA designated ltp 7a2b encoding a novel nonspecific lipid transfer protein of barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Gerbel). The cDNA of 755 basepairs contains an open reading frame of 366 nucleotides coding for a 12.3-kDa polypeptide. The first 29 amino acids constitute the putative signal peptide, characteristic for targeting to the secretory pathway. Analysis of mRNA levels by Northern blotting indicated that ltp 7a2b is preferentially expressed in the leaf epidermis. Levels of mRNA decreased during ageing of leaf tissue. Expression of ltp 7a2b was stimulated by a factor of 2 - 3 when the seedlings were grown in the presence of cadmium (10 - 1600 microM). Concomitantly, the primary leaves of Cd-exposed seedlings contained elevated levels of abscisic acid and thicker was layer of the cuticle. At 100 microM Cd in the hydroponic medium, the was cover was increased by 50%. The increase in abscisic acid content, ltp 7a2b mRNA and was coverage was either not seen, or seen much less, in Ni- and Zn-stressed seedlings. The data add circumstantial evidence to the recently proposed hypothesis that nonspecific lipid transfer proteins function in transfer of cutin and/or wax monomers from the site of synthesis in the cell to the cuticle.
Group II introns frequently require assistance by specific factors, maturases, for folding and effective splicing in vivo. The only putative maturase of higher plant chloroplasts is encoded by matK, located in the intron of trnK. We show that in barley matK transcripts are modified at a first codon base by C-to-U RNA editing. The resulting H --> Y substitution restores a sequence motif that is present in maturases of yeast and plant mitochondria and of Lactococcus ltrA and that is positioned within the X domain. Processing of trnK-matK transcripts was further investigated in plastids lacking functional ribosomes due to a mutation. Absence of the intron-encoded matK gene product in these plastids is correlated with the accumulation of precursor transcripts for tRNALys(UUU)-matK, processed to different degrees, and by the lack of mature and spliced tRNA molecules. These results suggest an essential role of MatK for splicing of its own transcript in vivo. Processing of the 5' end of trnK exon 1 was found to proceed efficiently also in the mutant plastids although the two tRNA exons were separated by the 2481 nt intron. Consequently, presence of the intron does not interfere with the formation of mature 5' termini.
Previous studies have shown that plant hemoglobin (Hb) mRNA is expressed in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) aleurone layers during hypoxia. We have examined the effect of a number of respiratory inhibitors on barley aleurone layers to determine the factors that influence Hb gene expression. Respiratory inhibitors that reduce O2 consumption, such as CO, cyanide, and antimycin A, strongly enhanced Hb mRNA levels. Treatment with the oxidative phosphorylation uncoupler 2,4-dinitrophenol markedly increased O2 consumption and had a similar positive effect on Hb gene expression. Hb transcript levels were also stimulated by the ATP synthase inhibitor oligomycin. The results suggest that the expression of Hb is not directly influenced by O2 usage or availability but is influenced by the availability of ATP in the tissue.
We have previously described a truncated cDNA clone for a barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Salome) jasmonate regulated gene, JRG5, which shows homology to caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT). A cDNA encompassing the coding region was amplified by PCR and cloned for overexpression in E. coli. Western blot analyses indicate that the recombinant protein crossreacts with the antibodies directed against the tobacco class II OMT and only weakly with the antibodies for the tobacco class I OMT. An immunoreactive band in the protein extract of jasmonate-treated leaf segments suggests that JRG5 transcripts that accumulate after jasmonate treatment are also translated. Specific methylating activities on caffeic acid and catechol were obtained from the recombinant protein through renaturation of protein extracted from inclusion bodies or from bacteria grown and induced at low temperature. On Northern blots, the JRG5 transcripts were detected in the leaf sheath but not the leaf lamina; stem, root or inflorescence and accumulated in leaf segments after jasmonate application. Several hormone or stress treatments did not induce JRG5 mRNA accumulation. This includes sorbitol stress which is known to lead to enhanced endogenous jasmonate levels and the implications for jasmonate signaling are discussed. Based on quantitative measurements and fluorescence microscopy, jasmonate-induced accumulation of ferulic acid and phenolic polymers in the cell wall were detected and the possibility of cell wall strengthening mediated through phenolic crosslinks is discussed.
Sequence analysis of a 1.4 kb clone from a cDNA library of senescing Zea mays leaves reveals an open reading frame for a 360 amino acid protein. Both the DNA and deduced amino acid sequences are highly homologous to the cysteine proteinases oryzain gamma and aleurain. Northern analysis demonstrates that the corresponding RNA level increases during natural leaf senescence, seedling germination and in chilling of tolerant maize lines, but decreases in a sensitive line. The mRNA level also decreases in regreening leaves, in dark-induced senescence and in nutrient or water stress. Southern and RFLP analysis provide evidence that the gene has two copies, on chromosomes 2 and 7.
2-Cys peroxiredoxins constitute a family of enzymes which catalyze the transfer of electrons from sulfhydryl residues to peroxides and are ubiquitously distributed among all organisms. This paper characterizes the higher plant 2-Cys-peroxiredoxin BAS1. (i) Escherichia coli over-expressing BAS1 exhibit increased tolerance for alkyl hydroperoxides in vivo. This result substantiates the peroxiredoxin function of BAS1. (ii) BAS1 protein is associated with the soluble chloroplast fraction of mesophyll protoplasts. Import and processing of in vitro-transcribed and cell-free translated BAS1 protein into isolated chloroplasts provides conclusive evidence that the plant-specific N-terminal extension of bas1 encodes the chloroplast import signal which targets the pre-form of BAS1 to the chloroplast stroma where it is cleaved to its mature size. (iii) Genomic analysis reveals that the targeting signal is encoded by a separate exon in Arabidopsis thalina. (iv) The amino acid sequence of the BAS1 core protein of higher plants has a higher degree of similarity to open reading frames in the genome of the bluegreen algae Synechochystis PCC sp. 6803 and in the plastome of the red algae Porphyra purpurea than to any other nuclear-encoded 2-Cys peroxiredoxin. Therefore, it is tempting to speculate that the chloroplast import signal was added to an ancestor gene of endosymbiotic origin in the course of plant evolution. (v) The bas1 gene expression is regulated under the control of the cellular redox state which is in accordance with the anti-oxidant function of the enzyme. While oxidative stressors increased expression only slightly, antioxidants such as reduced thiols strongly suppressed the transcript level. The implications of these findings are discussed with respect to the possible physiological functions of BAS1.
A 1.0 kb cDNA clone (Dd14-3-3) encoding a 14-3-3 homologue was isolated from a Dictyostelium discoideum cDNA library. The putative Dd14-3-3 protein has highest sequence identity to a barley 14-3-3 isoform (74%). Southern blot analysis suggests that only one 14-3-3 gene is present in the Dictyostelium genome. Highest Dd14-3-3 expression is observed in vegetatively growing cells, and expression decreases during multicellular development. In contrast, Dd14-3-3 protein levels detected immunochemically remained constant during Dictyostelium development. Expression of the Dd14-3-3 cDNA in Saccharomyces cerevisiae complemented the lethal disruption of the two yeast genes encoding 14-3-3 proteins (BMH1 and BMH2). This shows that Dd14-3-3 can fulfil the same function(s) as the yeast 14-3-3 proteins.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L. Himalaya) mutants with altered grain morphology were isolated to investigate whether defects in grain development, possibly involving gibberellins (GAs) and abscisic acid, would lead to altered patterns of [alpha]-amylase gene expression. Following treatment with sodium azide, 75 mutants, typically showing grain shriveling, were identified. At grain maturity 15 of the 75 mutants had higher [alpha]-amylase activities in shriveled grains compared with either phenotypically normal grains that developed on the same heterozygous plant or with grains of cv Himalaya. Studies of four of these mutants demonstrated increased levels of both high- and low-isoelectric point [alpha]-amylase isozymes midway through grain development. This category of mutant has been designated pga, for premature grain [alpha]-amylase. One such mutant (M326) showed an endosperm-determined inheritance pattern. When crossed into a (GA-deficient) dwarfing background there was a 10- to 20-fold reduction in [alpha]-amylase activity, suggesting a requirement for GA biosynthesis. Endogenous GAs and abscisic acid were quantified by combined gas chromatography-specific ion monitoring in normal and mutant grains of heterozygous M326 plants during the period of [alpha]-amylase accumulation. Mutant grains had significantly higher (5.8-fold) levels of the bioactive GA1 compared with normal grains but much lower (approximately 10-fold) levels of the 2[beta]-hydroxylated ("inactive") GAs, typical of developing barley grains (e.g. GA8, GA34, GA48). We propose that a reduced extent of 2[beta]-hydroxylation in the mutant grains results in an increased level of GA1, which is responsible for premature [alpha]-amylase gene expression.
A gene coding for a barley CMd protein was isolated from a genomic library using a cDNA probe encoding the wheat CM3 protein. Promoter sequence analysis reveals motifs found in genes specifically expressed in endosperm and aleurone cells, as well as TATA and other putative functional boxes. 720 bp of the Hv85.1 CMd protein gene promoter, when fused to a gus coding region, were unable to direct GUS activity in the seeds of transgenic tobacco plants. In contrast, the same construction delivered into immature maize kernels by microprojectile bombardment was able to direct expression of GUS in the outermost cell layers of maize endosperm in both a tissue-specific and a developmentally determined manner.
A family of high-affinity nitrate transporters has been identified in Aspergillus nidulans and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, and recently homologues of this family have been cloned from a higher plant (barley). Based on six of the peptide sequences most strongly conserved between the barley and C. reinhardtii polypeptides, a set of degenerate primers was designed to permit amplification of the corresponding genes from other plant species. The utility of these primers was demonstrated by RT-PCR with cDNA made from poly(A)+ RNA from barley, C. reinhardtii and Nicotiana plumbaginifolia. A PCR fragment amplified from N. plumbaginifolia was used as probe to isolate a full-length cDNA clone which encodes a protein, NRT2;1Np, that is closely related to the previously isolated crnA homologue from barley. Genomic Southern blots indicated that there are only 1 or 2 members of the Nrt2 gene family in N. plumbaginifolia. Northern blotting showed that the Nrt2 transcripts are most strongly expressed in roots. The effects of external treatments with different N sources showed that the regulation of the Nrt2 gene(s) is very similar to that reported for nitrate reductase and nitrite reductase genes: their expression was strongly induced by nitrate but was repressed when reduced forms of N were supplied to the roots.
Betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) catalyzes the last step in the plant biosynthetic pathway that leads to glycinebetaine. Rice plants (Oryza sativa L.), albeit considered a typical non-glycinebetaine accumulating species, have been found to express this enzyme at low levels. This observation evokes an interest in phylogenic evolution of the enzyme in the plant kingdom. It is reported here that rice plants possess the ability to take up exogenously added betaine aldehyde through the roots and convert it to glycinebetaine, resulting in an enhanced salt-tolerance of the plants. A gene encoding a putative BADH from the rice genome was also cloned and sequenced. The gene was found to contain 14 introns, and the overall nucleotide sequence of the coding region is c. 78% identical to that of the barley BADH cDNA. Cloning of a partial BADH cDNA from rice was accomplished by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The nucleotide sequence of the cloned fragment was found to be identical to the corresponding exon regions of the rice genomic BADH gene. The deduced amino acid sequences of rice and barley BADH both contain a C-terminal tripeptide SKL, a signal known to target preproteins to microbodies. This localization was confirmed by an immuno-gold labeling study of transgenic tobacco harboring barley cDNA, which showed BADH protein inside peroxisomes. Northern blot analysis revealed that the level of BADH mRNA is salt-inducible.
A cDNA clone, blpl14, corresponding to the large subunit of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase), has been isolated from a cDNA library prepared from leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). An open reading frame encodes a protein of 503 aa, with a calculated molecular weight of 54815. The derived aa sequence contains a putative transit peptide sequence, required for targeting to plastids, and has a highly conserved positioning of critical Lys residues that are believed to be involved in effector binding. The derived aa sequence shows 97% identity with the corresponding protein from wheat, but only 36% identity with AGPase from E. coli. The blpl14 gene is expressed predominantly in leaves and to a lesser degree in seed endosperm, but not roots, of barley.
The plastid gene rpoB encodes a plastid-specific, DNA-dependent RNA polymerase. A study of a barley mutant, albostrians, indicated that rpoB itself is transcribed by a nuclear-encoded RNA polymerase. However, the molecular nature of the nuclear-encoded RNA polymerase and mechanisms of the transcriptional regulation of rpoB expression have not been elucidated. Using an in vivo transient assay system for gene expression in plastids, the 5'-flanking region of rpoB from Arabidopsis thaliana in plastids of cultured BY-2 tobacco cells was analyzed. A series of deletion analyses of the 5'-flanking region indicated that there were two positive and one negative regulatory regions for rpoB expression. Comparison of the 5'-flanking sequences of rpoB among several plant species revealed the existence of three conserved motifs in these regions.
Transcription and translation inhibitors have been used to investigate the role of mRNA stability in the low-temperature-regulated expression of the post-transcriptionally controlled low temperature responsive barley gene family, blt14. Genomic clones (blt14.1, blt14.2) representing additional members of the blt14 gene family have been isolated and sequenced. Gene specific probes have been used to analyse the spatial expression of each individual member of the blt14 gene family. Findings indicate that all of the genes are responsive to low temperature, but the organ distribution is different for each gene. The results indicate that blt14.0 mRNA is stabilised by a low-temperature-dependent protein factor. Taken together, the results suggest that organ-specific post-transcriptional mechanisms are important in the low-temperature regulation of blt14 gene expression.
We investigated the signaling pathways that control changes in plastid transcription in response to development and light. Plastid gene expression was analyzed in dark-grown barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seedlings treated in vivo with an inhibitor of protein phosphatases 1 and 2A, okadaic acid (OA), or an inhibitor of protein kinases (K252a), followed by exposure of the seedlings to either red, blue, or white light. OA prevented blue light from activating the plastid pshD blue-light-responsive promoter (BLRP) and prevented red and blue light from activating the expression of the plastid-encoded rbcl and psbA and the nuclear-encoded RbcS and Lhcb genes. OA reduced total plastid transcription activity in dark- and light-grown seedlings by 77 to 80%, indicating that OA prevented light-responsive transcription by reducing total plastid transcription. In contrast, K252a activated the accumulation of mRNAs arising from the BLRP. Blue light in combination with K252a increased psbD mRNA levels in an additive manner. The results indicate that protein phosphatases 1 and/or 2A, which reside external to the organelle, are required for proper function of plastid transcription and chloroplast development, whereas a protein kinase represses the BLRP in plants grown in the dark.
It was found that the fusion (His)6-movement proteins (MPs) of two tobamoviruses (TMV UI and a crucifer-infecting tobamovirus, crTMV) were efficient nonspecific translational repressors. The in vitro translation of viral RNAs was blocked by incomplete 30K MP-RNA complexes formed at the MP:RNA molar ratios of 100-150:1. Similar results were obtained with the barley stripe mosaic hordeivirus (BSMV)-encoded 58K MP; however, the translation inhibiting activity of the 58K MP was manifested only in the presence of magnesium. By contrast, the 25K MP of potato virus X (PVX) was incapable of forming MP-RNA complexes under experimental conditions used and did not inhibit in vitro translation. The translation repressing ability correlated with the level of MP affinity to RNA. The complexes of the 30K MP and 58K MP with TMV RNA were not infectious in isolated protoplasts; however, they were infectious in indicator plants. Reduction of MP affinity to RNA resulted in translatability of MP-TMV RNA complexes that apparently was due to their destabilization. Thus, the deletion mutant DEL4 MP formed MP-TMV RNA complexes that were translatable in vitro, infectious to protoplasts and plants. In contrast to this, the complexes of TMV RNA with the mammalian RNA-binding protein p50 were nontranslatable and noninfectious to either protoplasts or intact plants. These results implied that nontranslatable MP-RNA complexes which could not replicate in the primary infected cells were converted into a translatable and replicatable form in the course of passage through plasmodesmata in planta.
To investigate structure-function relationships in plant chitinases, we have developed a heterologous expression system for the 26 kDa endochitinase from Hordeum vulgare L. (barley). Escherichia coli cells harbouring the gene in a T7 RNA polymerase-based expression vector synthesized completely insoluble recombinant protein under standard induction conditions at 37 degrees C. However, a concentration of soluble recombinant protein of approx. 15 mg/l was achieved by inducing bacteria at low temperature (15 degrees C). Recombinant endochitinase was purified to homogeneity and shown to be structurally and functionally identical to the seed protein. An average of three disulphide bonds are present in the recombinant enzyme, consistent with the number found in the natural form. The seed and recombinant proteins showed the same specific activity towards a high-molecular-mass substrate and exhibited similar anti-fungal activity towards Tricoderma reesei. Site-directed mutagenesis was used to replace residues that are likely to be involved in the catalytic event, based on structural similarities with lysozyme and on sequence alignments with related chitinases. The Glu67-->Gln mutation resulted in a protein with undetectable activity, while the Glu89-->Gln mutation yielded an enzyme with 0. 25% of wild-type specific activity. This suggests that two acidic residues are essential for catalytic activity, similar to the situation with many other glycosyl hydrolases. Examination of conserved residues stretching into the proposed substrate binding cleft suggests that Asn124 also plays an important functional role.
Mutation-induced recessive alleles (mlo) of the barley Mlo locus confer a leaf lesion phenotype and broad spectrum resistance to the fungal pathogen, Erysiphe graminis f. sp. hordei. The gene has been isolated using a positional cloning approach. Analysis of 11 mutagen-induced mlo alleles revealed mutations leading in each case to alterations of the deduced Mlo wild-type amino acid sequence. Susceptible intragenic recombinants, isolated from mlo heteroallelic crosses, show restored Mlo wild-type sequences. The deduced 60 kDa protein is predicted to be membrane-anchored by at least six membrane-spanning helices. The findings are compatible with a dual negative control function of the Mlo protein in leaf cell death and in the onset of pathogen defense; absence of Mlo primes the responsiveness for the onset of multiple defense functions.
Leaf tissues of barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Salome) respond to methyl jasmonate (JaMe) treatment with a characteristic pattern of gene expression. Jasmonate-induced proteins (JIPs), such as leaf thionins (jip15 gene product) and ribosome-inactivating proteins (jip60 gene product), rapidly accumulate. Their genes are transiently transcriptionally activated, as shown here by the determination of in-vitro transcription rates in run-off assays. In contrast to jip genes, expression of photosynthetic genes encoding the small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (rbcS gene product) and a type III light-harvesting chlorophyll-a/b-binding protein (LHCP; lhbC1 gene product), for example, was rapidly down-regulated in JaMe-treated barley leaves. Despite decreasing rates of rbcS and lhbC1 gene transcription, their transcripts were maintained in JaMe-treated leaf tissues for at least 36 h. Only at a later stage, was there a decline in the levels of rbcS and lhbC1, but not jip, transcripts, suggesting a selective destabilization of photosynthetic mRNAs in JaMe-treated leaf tissues.
A cDNA clone, OsGAmyb, which encodes a homologue to the barley Myb-like transcription factor, HvGAMyb, was isolated from a rice endosperm cDNA library. The clone was used to show that expression of the OsGAmyb gene in aleurone cells was stimulated by gibberellic acid and the gene product was shown to transactivate an alpha-amylase gene promoter in transient expression analyses.
A genomic DNA fragment was isolated containing 5' upstream sequences and part of the open reading frame corresponding to the lipoxygenase 1 cDNA (LoxA) expressed in barley grains during development and germination. Lox1 transcription was shown to be methyl jasmonate (MeJA)- and wound-inducible in leaves, but Lox1 transcripts were not detected in mildew-infected leaves, although this is a commonly observed response to pathogenic attack in various plants. Transient gene expression assays were used to identify a promoter region involved in MeJA-responsive expression. Analysis of 5' and 3' promoter deletions indicated that sequences between -363 and -294 conferred MeJA-responsive expression. Deletions/replacements covering this part of the promoter further defined a MeJA-responsive region between -331 and -291. Insertion of the region -328 to -293 into the constitutive CaMV 35S promoter conferred MeJA-responsive expression. The 36 bp fragment contains the motif TGACG as inverted repeats, which has been previously identified as a binding site for bZIP transactivating factors. Site-directed mutagenesis on these TGACG motifs abolished MeJA-responsive expression, clearly identifying them as MeJA-responsive elements. Sequence comparisons found no similar motif in other characterized promoters of MeJA-inducible genes, but suggested a common spatial structure which may serve as a binding site for transacting factors involved in the MeJA signal transduction pathway.
Gene-specific probes (3' ends of cDNAs) were obtained from barley cDNAs encoding two types of glycine-rich proteins: HvGRP2, characterized by a cytokeratin-like and a cysteine-rich domain, and HvGRP3, whose main feature was an RNA-binding domain. Expression of genes Hvgrp2 and Hvgrp3, which are present at one (or two) copies per haploid genome, was ubiquitous and gene Hvgrp3 was under light/darkness modulation. Cold treatment increased Hvgrp2 and Hvgrp3 mRNA levels. Methyl jasmonate (10 microM) switched off the two genes. Expression of Hvgrp2, but not that of Hvgrp3, was induced by ethylene treatment (100 ppm). Fungal pathogens Erysiphe graminis and Rhynchosporium secalis increased the mRNAs levels of the two genes, both in compatible and in incompatible interactions, while bacterial pathogens did not.
The NADPH-dependent HC-toxin reductase (HCTR), encoded by Hm1 in maize, inactivates HC-toxin produced by the fungus Cochliobolus carbonum, and thus confers resistance to the pathogen. The fact that C. carbonum only infects maize (Zea mays) and is the only species known to produce HC-toxin raises the question: What are the biological functions of HCTR in other plant species? An HCTR-like enzyme may function to detoxify toxins produced by pathogens which infect other plant species (R. B. Meeley, G. S. Johal, S. E. Briggs, and J. D. Walton, Plant Cell, 4:71-77, 1992). Hm1 homolog in rice (Y. Hihara, M. Umeda, C. Hara, Q. Liu, S. Aotsuka, K. Toriyama, and H. Uchimiya, unpublished) and HCTR activity in barley, wheat, oats and sorghum have been reported (R. B. Meeley and J. D. Walton, Plant Physiol. 97:1080-1086, 1993). To investigate the sequence conservation of Hm1 and HCTR in barley and the possible relationship of barley Hm1 homolog to the known disease resistance genes, we cloned and mapped a barley (Hordeum vulgare) Hm1-like gene. A putative full-length cDNA clone, Bhm1-18, was isolated from a cDNA library consisting of mRNA from young leaves, inflorescences, and immature embryos. This 1,297-bp clone encodes 363 amino acids which show great similarity (81.6%) with the amino acid sequence of HM1 in maize. Two loci were mapped to barley molecular marker linkage maps with Bhm1-18 as the probe; locus A (Bhm1A) on the long arm of chromosome 1, and locus B (Bhm1B) on the short arm of chromosome 1 which is syntenic to maize chromosome 9 containing the Hm2 locus. The Bhm1-18 probe hybridized strongly to a Southern blot of a wide range of grass species, indicating high conservation of HCTR at the DNA sequence level among grasses. The HCTR mRNA was detected in barley roots, leaves, inflorescences, and immature embryos. The conservation of the HCTR sequence, together with its expression in other plant species (R. B. Meeley and J. D. Walton, Plant Physiol. 97:1080-1086, 1993), suggest HCTR plays an important functional role in other plant species.
A gene encoding (1-->4)-beta-xylan xylanohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.8) isoenzyme X-I has been isolated from a barley genomic library and the nucleotide sequence of a 2704-bp fragment defined. The gene contains a single intron of 91 bp in the coding region of the mature enzyme and additional introns may be present in the 5'-untranslated region. Expression of the xylanase gene is restricted to the aleurone layer of germinated grain, where the phytohormone gibberellic acid induces both transcriptional activity of the gene and the secretion of active enzyme from the layers. Abscisic acid abolishes the gibberellic acid induction of xylanase gene expression. The hormonal responses are consistent with the presence of promoter sequences, all of which are within 150 bp of the putative transcription start site, that have been implicated as cis-acting elements within gibberellic acid response complexes in plant genes. The elements include a pyrimidine box, CTCTTTCC, together with TAACGAC and TATCCAT boxes. Three genes encode (1-->4)-beta-xylanase isoenzymes in barley and these have been mapped on the barley genome using two doubled haploid populations and seven wheat-barley addition lines. The three xylanase genes are closely linked on the long arm of chromosome 7 (5H). No recombination was detected between the genes in 234 doubled haploid lines. The genes are flanked by the RFLP markers CDO506 on the proximal side and PSR370 at the distal end.
A maize (Zea mays L.) cDNA clone (pZMB2) encoding beta-amylase was isolated from a cDNA library prepared from the aleurone RNA of germinating kernels. The cDNA encodes a predicted product of 488 amino acids with significant similarity to known beta-amylases from barley (Hordeum vulgare), rye (Secale cereale), and rice (Oryza sativa). Glycine-rich repeats found in the carboxyl terminus of the endosperm-specific beta-amylase of barley and rye are absent from the maize gene product. The N-terminal sequence of the first 20 amino acids of a beta-amylase peptide derived from purified protein is identical to the 5th through 24th amino acids of the predicted cDNA product, indicating the absence of a conventional signal peptide in the maize protein. Recombinant inbred mapping data indicate that the cDNA clone is single-copy gene that maps to chromosome 7L at position 83 centimorgans. Northern blot analysis and in vitro translation-immunoprecipitation data indicate that the maize beta-amylase is synthesized de novo in the aleurone cells but not in the scutellum during seed germination.
We have isolated a genomic clone corresponding to a caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT) from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) using a cDNA for a previously described jasmonate-regulated mRNA showing homology to COMT. Primer extension was used to characterize the 5' end of the mRNA while the 3' end, intron/exon structure and other features of the sequence were deduced by comparison to the cDNA sequence and/or conserved motifs. The gene is mapped to chromosome five and is absent in the barley cultivar Morex. Southern and northern analyses suggest that no differences in genomic structure and jasmonate inducibility exist between the barley cultivar Salome (source of the cDNA clone) and Igri (source of the genomic clone). This genomic clone is thus suitable for promoter studies with respect to jasmonate induction.
Senescence of barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Carina) primary foliage leaves was induced by transfer of the plants into darkness for 2 d. Under these conditions senescence was characterized by a light-reversible decline in the efficiency of photosystem II, and in chlorophyll and protein contents. To isolate senescence-associated genes a differential display of cDNA fragments amplified from reversely transcribed RNA was employed. By this method, gene expression in leaves of control plants collected at the onset of the dark period was compared with gene expression in senescing leaves collected at the end of the extended dark period. The expression of the genes represented by various differentially displayed cDNA fragments was examined by Northern blot hybridizations with RNA derived from primary foliage leaves before and after induction of senescence by darkness. In order to test whether these genes with enhanced expression during dark-induced senescence also show enhanced expression during natural senescence, Northern blot hybridizations were carried out with RNA samples prepared from flag leaves of barley plants during maturation and senescence under field conditions. Five of the cDNA fragments representing transcripts associated with dark-induced senescence, as well as with natural senescence, were selected as probes for screening a cDNA library from senescent flag leaves. With one probe a larger cDNA including a complete open reading frame with homology to the sequence of a known proteinase inhibitor was found. Another cDNA isolated by this means showed high sequence similarity with a gene coding for a 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase. The other three larger cDNA clones isolated by this procedure so far do not show significant homologies with known sequences.
In this paper we report the in-planta activity of the ribosome-inactivating protein JIP60, a 60-kDa jasmonate-induced protein from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) plants. All plants expressing the complete JIP60 cDNA under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter exhibited conspicuous and similar phenotypic alterations, such as slower growth, shorter internodes, lanceolate leaves, reduced root development, and premature senescence of leaves. Microscopic inspection of developing leaves showed a loss of residual meristems and higher degree of vacuolation of mesophyll cells as compared to the wild type. When probed with an antiserum which was immunoreactive against both the N- and the C-terminal half of JIP60, a polypeptide with a molecular mass of about 30 kDa, most probably a processed JIP60 product, could be detected. Phenotypic alterations could be correlated with the differences in the detectable amount of the JIP60 mRNA and processed JIP60 protein. The protein biosynthesis of the transformants was characterized by an increased polysome/monosome ratio but a decreased in-vivo translation activity. These findings suggest that JIP60 perturbs the translation machinery in planta. An immunohistological analysis using the JIP60 antiserum indicated that the immunoreactive polypeptide(s) are located mainly in the nucleus of transgenic tobacco leaf cells and to a minor extent in the cytoplasm.
The UK-M isolate of the bipartite barley mild mosaic bymovirus (BaMMV UK-M) cannot be fungally transmitted, and has previously been shown to have a 1092 nt deletion in the coding region of RNA2. We now report, using sequence and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) data, that a subpopulation of BaMMV UK-M RNA2 contains a direct imperfect sequence repeat of 552 nt in the 3' untranslated region. The secondary structure of the 3' end of RNA2, and its possible effects on replication of the virus, are also discussed.
Maize cytosolic glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPC) is encoded by a small multi-gene family consisting of gpc1, gpc2, gpc3 and gpc4. GAPC3/4 protein is synthesized in roots during anoxic conditions and is known to be one of the 'anaerobic polypeptides'. We further analyzed the gpc gene family by isolating full-length cDNA clones of gpc2, gpc3, gpc4 and genomic clones of gpc2 and gpc4. The deduced amino acid sequence of GAPC4 has 99.4% identity with that of GAPC3 as compared to only 81% with either GAPC1 or GAPC2 amino acid sequence. Based on the deduced amino acid sequence identity we designated GAPC1 and GAPC2 as group I (97% identical) and GAPC3 and GAPC4 as group II (99.4% identical). As previously reported for gpc3, transcript levels were also induced for gpc4 by anaerobiosis. Neither heat shock, cold nor salt stress induced the expression of gpc3 or gpc4. In contrast, the transcript accumulation of gpc1 and gpc2 either remained constitutive or decreased in response to anoxia. The upstream regions of gpc2 and gpc4 contain typical eukaryotic promoter features with transcription start points at 76 and 68 bp upstream of their respective translation initiation sites. Transient expression analysis of gpc4 promoter-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene constructs in bombarded maize suspension culture cells was used to examine the role of 5'-flanking sequence of gpc4. The gpc4 promoter (-1997 to +39 bp) was sufficient to induce GUS activity approximately three-fold in response to anaerobiosis. 5'-unidirectional deletion analysis revealed that the critical region of gpc4 required for its induced expression lies between -290 and -157. This region has reverse-oriented putative 'anaerobic response elements', G-box like sequences, and a GC motif similar to that previously defined as a regulatory element of maize adh1 and Arabidopsis adh, as well as the sequences found in other environmentally inducible genes. The relevance of these elements in conferring anaerobic induction of gpc4 gene expression is discussed.
The development of a barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) transformation system made it possible to consider the use of maize Activator/Dissociation (Ac/Ds) transposable elements for gene tagging in transgenic barley plants. However, barley transformation is time-consuming, and therefore a simple transient assay for Ac/Ds activity in intact barley tissues was developed to test the components of a proposed gene tagging system, prior to their stable introduction into plants. In this assay, barley scutellar tissue is co-transformed with constructs containing the maize Ac transposase gene and an Escherichia coli uidA reporter gene (Gus), the expression of which is interrupted by a maize Ds element. In transformed barley scutellar cells, Ac transposase-mediated excision of the Ds element generates a functional Gus gene, leading to histochemically detectable GUS activity. Characterization of the excision products showed that they had a pattern of nucleotide deletions and/or transversions similar to that found in maize and other heterologous plant systems. In addition, although contrary to the situation observed in heterologous dicot systems, efficient Ds excision in barley, a heterologous monocot system, appears to be inversely associated with Ac copy number, a finding similar to the Ac dosage effects observed in maize. The transient assay was used to demonstrate functional transposase activity in barley callus lines stably transformed with an Ac transposase gene.
Stress responses in plants involve changes in the transcription of specific genes. The constitutively active mutants of two related Ca2+-dependent protein kinases (CDPK1 and CDPK1a) activate a stress-inducible promoter, bypassing stress signals. Six other plant protein kinases, including two distinct CDPKs, fail to mimic this stress signaling. The activation is abolished by a CDPK1 mutation in the kinase domain and diminished by a constitutively active protein phosphatase 2C that is capable of blocking responses to the stress hormone abscisic acid. A variety of functions are mediated by different CDPKs. CDPK1 and CDPK1a may be positive regulators controlling stress signal transduction in plants.
In this study we report the cloning, sequence, and characterization of Hor v 9 allergen cDNAs from barley (Hordeum vulgare) pollen. Structural homologues of Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) group 9 pollen allergens were identified in a cDNA library of barley pollen expressed mRNAs. The Hor v 9 cDNA clone (hvp9742) contained an open reading frame encoding 313 amino acids which included a putative 27-residue signal peptide and one asparagine sequon for glycosylation. The mRNA corresponding to clone hvp9742 was produced abundantly in pollen during the late stages of anther development. The protein encoded by clone hvp974 was synthesized as a fusion protein in the E. coli expression vector pMAL. Immunoblots using antibodies to this recombinant allergen, rHor v 9, showed that Hor v 9 protein accumulated during pollen development and was produced maximally at pollen maturity. Using these antibodies, we also provide evidence that Hor v 9 protein localized to the extracellular matrix of mature pollen. Southern blots suggested that Hor v 9 allergens exist as multiple isoforms in barley. Sequence comparisons showed that the Hor v 9 cDNA clones were also homologous to group 5 allergens of Timothy grass (Phleum pratense) pollen and canary grass (Phalaris aquatica) pollen, and the group 9 allergen of ryegrass (Lolium perenne) pollen.
Transcriptionally active chromosomes (TACs) were isolated from mature chloroplasts of barley, from proplastids enriched in basal segments of barley primary foliage leaves, and from ribosome-deficient plastids of heat-bleached barley leaves. Immunological analysis with a specific antibody raised against the plastid rpoA gene product revealed that chloroplasts contain an immunoreactive protein of 38 kDa in the TAC fraction which appears to be identical to the alpha-subunit contained in the soluble RNA polymerase (sRNAP) fraction of the same chloroplasts. However, only traces of immunoreactive protein were detected in a TAC preparation derived from "proplastids". A positive correlation could be demonstrated between transcriptional activity and the amount of immunoreactive 38-kDa protein by analyzing different TAC fractions eluting at different times during gel filtration of a standard TAC preparation as well as in TAC preparations obtained under various detergent conditions.
Antioxidants can remove damaging reactive oxygen species produced as by-products of desiccation and respiration during late embryogenesis, imbibition of dormant seeds and germination. We have expressed a protein, PER1, encoded by the Balem (barley aleurone and embryo) transcript previously called B15C, and show it to reduce oxidative damage in vitro. PER1 shares high similarity to a novel group of thiol-requiring antioxidants, named peroxiredoxins, and represents a subgroup with only one conserved cysteine residue (1-Cys). PER1 is the first antioxidant belonging to the 1-Cys subgroup shown to be functionally active, and the first peroxiredoxin of any kind to be functionally described in plants. The steady state level of the transcript, Per1, homologous to a dormancy-related transcript (pBS128) from bromegrass (Bromus secalinus), increases considerably in imbibed embryos from dormant barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) grains. Our investigations also indicate that Per1 transcript levels are dormancy-related in the aleurone layer of whole grains. In contrast to most seed-expressed antioxidants Per1 disappears in germinating embryos, and in the mature aleurone the transcript is down-regulated by the germinating embryo or by gibberellic acid (GA). Our data show that the barley seed peroxiredoxin is encoded by a single Per1 gene. Possible roles of the PER1 peroxiredoxin in barley grains during desiccation, dormancy and imbibition are discussed.
Heteroxylans are major constituents of cell walls in the graminaceous monocotyledons. Degradation of walls in the starchy endosperm of germinated cereal grains is mediated, in part at least, by the action of (1-->4)-beta-xylan endohydrolases (EC 3.2.1.8). Complementary DNAs encoding (1-->4)-beta-xylan endohydrolases from the aleurone layer of germinated barley have been isolated and characterized. Southern blot analyses suggest that the enzymes are derived from a family of 3 or 4 genes, and cDNAs corresponding to two of these genes have been sequenced. The amino acid sequence deduced from one cDNA almost exactly matches the amino acid sequence determined previously from the purified enzyme. This enzyme is designated (1-->4)-beta-xylan endohydrolase isoenzyme X-I. The mature enzyme consists of 395 amino acid residues, has a calculated M(r) of ca. 44600 and an isoelectric point of 6.1, and is likely to adopt an (alpha/beta)8 barrel conformation. The amino acid sequence of the barley (1-->4)-beta-xylan endohydrolase encoded by the other cDNA, which is designated isoenzyme X-II, shows ca. 13% sequence divergence compared with isoenzyme X-I. Both enzymes exhibit sequence and structural similarities with microbial xylanases. Expression of the genes in germinated grain appears to be confined largely to the aleurone layer, and no mRNA transcripts could be detected in young vegetative tissues.
Recombinant barley alpha-amylase isozymes 1 and 2 were secreted by Pichia pastoris at up to 50 and 1 mg/liter, respectively, representing approximately a 50-fold increase compared to the levels of the heterologous expression by Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The cDNA clones E or pM/C encoding isozymes 1 and 2, respectively, were placed under the control of regulatory sequences from the Pichia AOX1 gene in the vector pHIL-D2. Both isozymes were effectively secreted to the medium as directed by their own signal sequences and easily purified to homogeneity in quantitative yield by affinity chromatography on beta-cyclodextrin-Sepharose. The N-terminal sequence, pI, and Mr indicated that native-like processing took place. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry, however, revealed microheterogeneity for recombinant isozyme 1. While Mr of one recombinant isozyme 1 form of 45,452 was in excellent agreement with a value of 45,447 calculated from the sequence, liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry of endo Lys C-generated peptides followed by tandem mass spectrometry on a nanoelectrospray ionization/mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry system identified additional recombinant isozyme 1 forms to be glycosylated on Thr410, N-acetylated on His1, S-glutathionylated on Cys95, or C-terminally truncated of -412RS, -411QRS, and -410LQRS. The recombinant enzymes and the alpha-amylases from barley malt closely resembled each other in enzymatic activity on insoluble Blue Starch, amylose of degree of polymerization 17, and 2-chloro-4-nitrophenyl beta-D-maltoheptaoside as well as in Ca2+ dependency of activity. Pichia pastoris thus produced in high yields recombinant alpha-amylase that is similar with respect to structure and function to the enzyme purified from malt extracts. This greatly facilitates future mutational analysis of barley alpha-amylase in order to probe structure/function relationships.
Many viruses use stop codon readthrough as a strategy to produce extended coat or replicase proteins. The stop codon of the barley yellow dwarf virus (PAV serotype) coat protein gene is read through at a low rate. This produces an extended polypeptide which becomes part of the virion. We have analyzed the cis-acting sequences in the barley yellow dwarf virus PAV genome required for this programmed readthrough in vitro in wheat germ extracts and reticulocyte lysates and in vivo in oat protoplasts. Two regions 3' to the stop codon were required. Deletion of sections containing the first 5 of the 16 CCN NNN repeats located 3' of the stop codon greatly reduced readthrough in vitro and in vivo. Surprisingly, readthrough also required a second, more distal element that is located 697 to 758 bases 3' of the stop codon within the readthrough open reading frame. This element also functioned in vivo in oat protoplasts when placed more than 2 kb from the coat protein gene stop in the untranslated region following a GUS reporter gene. This is the first report of a long-range readthrough signal in viruses.
The barley genes HvLtp4.2 and HvLtp4.3 both encode the lipid transfer protein LTP4 and are less than 1 kb apart in tail-to-tail orientation. They differ in their non-coding regions from each other and from the gene corresponding to a previously reported Ltp4 cDNA (now Ltp4.1). Southern blot analysis indicated the existence of three or more Ltp4 genes per haploid genome and showed considerable polymorphism among barley cultivars. We have investigated the transient expression of genes HvLtp4.2 and HvLtp4.3 following transformation by particle bombardment, using promoter fusions to the beta-glucuronidase reporter sequence. In leaves, activities of the two promoters were of the same order as those of the sucrose synthase (Ss1) and cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoters used as controls. Their expression patterns were similar, except that Ltp4.2 was more active than Ltp4.3 in endosperm, and Ltp4.3 was active in roots, while Ltp4.2 was not. The promoters of both genes were induced by low temperature, both in winter and spring barley cultivars. Northern blot analysis, using the Ltp4-specific probe, indicated that Xanthomonas campestris pv. translucens induced an increase over basal levels of Ltp4 mRNA, while Pseudomonas syringae pv. japonica caused a decrease. The Ltp4.3-Gus promoter fusion also responded in opposite ways to these two compatible bacterial pathogens, whereas the Ltp4.2-Gus construction did not respond to infection.
delta-Aminolevulinate in plants, algae, cyanobacteria, and several other bacteria such as Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis is synthesized from glutamate by means of a tRNA(Glu) mediated pathway. The enzyme glutamyl tRNA(Glu) reductase catalyzes the second step in this pathway, the reduction of tRNA bound glutamate to give glutamate 1-semialdehyde. The hemA gene from barley encoding the glutamyl tRNA(Glu) reductase was expressed in E. coli cells joined at its amino terminal end to Schistosoma japonicum glutathione S-transferase (GST). GST-glutamyl tRNA(Glu) reductase fusion protein and the reductase released from it by thrombin digestion catalyzed the reduction of glutamyl tRNA(Glu) to glutamate 1-semialdehyde. The specific activity of the fusion protein was 120 pmol.micrograms-1.min-1. The fusion protein used tRNA(Glu) from barley chloroplasts preferentially to E. coli tRNA(Glu) and its activity was inhibited by hemin. It migrated as an 82-kDa polypeptide with SDS/PAGE and eluted with an apparent molecular mass of 450 kDa from Superose 12. After removal of the GST by thrombin, the protein migrated as an approximately equal to 60-kDa polypeptide with SDS/PAGE, whereas gel filtration on Superose 12 yielded an apparent molecule mass of 250 kDa. Isolated fusion protein contained heme, which could be reduced by NADPH and oxidized by air.
In our study of the role of abscisic acid (ABA) in controlling the germination of barley grains, we tested a barley mutant line with a gigantum appearance (Hordeum distichum cv Quantum) for an ABA-insensitive phenotype by assaying germination in the presence of 10-4 M ABA. Dissected embryos of the mutant germinated at least 10 h earlier than did those of the wild type. The half-maximal concentrations of ABA inhibitory for germination were determined to be 5 x 10-4 M for the mutant and 10-6 M for the wild type. Expression of an ABA-induced Rab gene was studied to determine ABA responsiveness. The ABA concentration required for a half-maximal induction of Rab gene expression was 4 x 10-6 M in isolated embryos of both the mutant and wild type. This result suggests that ABA signal transduction pathways were not affected in the mutant. When isolated embryos were allowed to imbibe in water, ABA was released from the mutant and wild-type embryos at the same rate. However, the free ABA level in the incubation medium of the mutant showed a much faster decrease than that of the wild type, as demonstrated by two independent ABA assay methods (high-performance liquid chromatography and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay). Our results suggest that turnover of ABA outside the embryo is a determining factor in the germination of barley seeds.
The gene Itr1, encoding trypsin inhibitor BTI-CMe, has been obtained from a genomic library of Hordeum vulgare L. The gene has no introns and presents in its 5'-upstream region 605 bp that are homologous to the long terminal repeats (LTR) of the 'copia-like' retro-transposon Bare-1. Functional analysis of the Itr1 promoter by transient expression in protoplasts derived from different barley tissues, has shown that in this system the Itr1 promoter retains its endosperm specifity and the trans-regulation mediated by the Lys3a gene. The proximal promoter extending 343 bp upstream of the translation initiation ATG codon is sufficient to confer full GUS expression and for endosperm specifity. In protoplasts derived from the lys3a mutant, Risø 1508, GUS activity was less than 5% of that obtained with the same constructs in the protoplasts of wild-type Bomi from which it derives. Gel retardation experiments, after incubation with proteins obtained from both types of endosperm nuclei, also show differential patterns. Possible reasons for these differences are discussed.
Developmental expression of a 23 kDa jasmonate-induced protein (JIP-23) of barley leaves (Hordeum vulgare cv. Salome) was studied by measuring the time-dependent accumulation of transcript and protein during germination. Tissue-specific expression of JIP-23 was analyzed immunocytochemically and by in situ hybridizations, respectively. During seed germination JIP-23 mRNA was found to accumulate transiently with a maximum at 32 h, whereas the protein was steadily detectable after the onset of expression. The occurrence of new isoforms of JIP-23 during germination in comparison to jasmonate-treated leaves suggests, that the JIP-23 gene family of barley is able to express different subsets of isoforms dependent on the developmental stage. JIP-23 and its transcript were found mainly in the scutellum, the scutellar nodule and in lower parts of the primary leaf of 6 days old seedings. All these tissues exhibited high levels of endogenous jasmonates. In situ hybridization revealed specific accumulation of JIP-23 mRNA in companion cells of the phloem in the nodule plate of the scutellum. In accordance with that, JIP-23 was detected immunocytochemically in phloem cells of the root as well as of the scutellar nodule and in parenchymatic cells of the scutellum. The cell type-specific occurrence of JIP-23 was restricted to cells, which are known to be highly stressed osmotically by active solute transport. This observation suggests, that the expression of this protein might be a response to osmotic stress during development.
The cereal endosperm develops from a coenocyte to a cellular storage organ through formation of nucleo-cytoplasmic domains and cell wall deposition in the interzones between these domains. During its early stages, the endosperm develops in close contact with nucellus, the sporophytic tissue which gives rise to the megagametophyte. Owing to the positioning of the two tissues deeply within the ovary, neither cell types have been easily accessible for molecular studies. In this paper we report for the first time the cloning of molecular markers for the barley endosperm coenocyte and the nucellus. The novel END1 and NUC1 cDNAs were isolated by differential screening of a cDNA library from 5 DAP (days after pollination) ovaries using a positive probe from hand-dissected embryo sacs with adhering nucellus and testa cell layers, and a negative probe from pericarp. In situ and northern blot hybridization data show that END1 transcripts are asymmetrically distributed in the endosperm coenocyte limited to an area over the nucellar projection. In the cellular endosperm, END1 transcripts are present in modified aleurone cells and a few layers of ventral starchy endosperm cells. The second clone, NUC1, hybridizes to transcripts in the nucellus before fertilization and in autolyzing nucellus cells after fertilization. At later stages, after the disappearance of nucellus, NUC1 transcripts are present in the nucellar epidermis and in the lateral cells of the nucellar projection. This work provide tools for future elucidation of the genes specifying endosperm histogenesis.
Two previously unidentified cDNA clones (bsi1 and bpr1-1) were isolated by differential hybridization from a cDNA library of Stagonospora (Septoria) nodorum (Berk) Castellani & E.G. Germano (teleomorph Phaeosphaeria (Leptosphaeria) nodorum (E. Muller) Hedjaroude-challenged barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) coleoptiles. bsi1 encoded a cysteine-rich protein containing 89 amino acids (aa) with a relative molecular mass (M(r)) of 9405. Protein sequence homologies showed that Bsi1 was very similar to an aluminium-induced protein from wheat and indicated that it was related to the Bowman-Birk-type proteinase inhibitors (BB-PIs). The predicted aa sequence of Bsi1 contained an N-terminal secretory signal sequence which implied that the protein was exported. The other clone, bprl-1, which was truncated at the 5' end, encoded a type-1 pathogenesis-related (PR-1) protein. The complete sequence of bpr1-1 was obtained after cloning a barley genomic DNA fragment and was shown to encode a basic protein containing 174 aa with a M(r) of 18 859. The deduced aa sequence of bpr1-1 contained both an N-terminal secretory signal sequence and a charged C-terminal extension. This latter sequence may represent a vacuolar targeting signal. bsil and bpr1-1 and four other defence-related genes (encoding 1,3-beta-glucanase, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, a homologue of a putative wheat peroxidase, and barley leaf-specific thionin), showed increased transcription levels in S. nodorum-challenged coleoptiles, although their pattern of accumulation varied after inoculation (a.i.). The potential role of these induced genes in defence against fungal attack is discussed.
The modular nature of the abscisic acid response complex (ABRC), the promoter unit necessary and sufficient for abscisic acid (ABA) induction of gene expression in barley, is defined in this study. We investigated ABA induction of a barley late embrogenesis abundant (Lea) gene, HVA1, and found that the ABRC of this gene consists of a 10-bp box with an ACGT core (ACGT-box) and the 11 bp directly upstream, named coupling element 3 (CE3). Only one copy of this ABRC is sufficient to confer ABA induction when linked to a minimal promoter. Because we previously reported another ABRC in the barley HVA22 gene, which consists of an ACGT-box with a distal coupling element (CE1), exchange experiments were conducted to study the interaction among modular elements in these ABRCs. We show that ACGT-boxes in these ABRCs are interchangeable, indicating that an ACGT-box can interact with either a distal or a proximal coupling element to confer ABA response. However, the two coupling elements are not fully exchangeable. Although CE3 can function either proximal or distal to the ACGT-box, CE1 is only functional at the distal position. The presence of both the distal and the proximal coupling elements has a synergistic effect on the absolute level of expression as well as on ABA induction. These ABRCs function in both seed and vegetative tissues. In seeds, ABA induction of the ABRC containing the proximal CE3, but not the ABRC with the distal CE1, is enhanced in the presence of the transcription regulator Viviparous1, indicating that these two ABRCs are mediated by different ABA signal transduction pathways.
A new sulfur-rich basic polypeptide, so called omega-hordothionin, has been isolated from barley endosperm by extractions with NaCl and ammonium bicarbonate followed by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography. Purified omega-hordothionin was found to be homogeneous by SDS/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, N-terminal amino-acid sequencing and electrospray-ionization mass spectrometric analysis. The complete primary structure of omega-hordothionin was determined by automatic degradation of the intact molecule and peptides obtained by proteolytic cleavage. Omega-hordothionin consists of a single polypeptide chain of 48 amino acids with a molecular mass of 5508 Da deduced from its amino acid sequence, which fully coincides with the 5508.2 Da determined by electrospray-ionization mass spectrometry. The isolated polypeptide showed a characteristic composition with a high content of basic amino acids (five arginine residues, two lysine residues and six histidine residues) and eight cysteine residues, and has strong sequence identity (66%) with the sorghum SI alpha 1 alpha-amylase inhibitor. Omega-hordothionin, like gamma-hordothionin, exhibited translation inhibitory activity on both eukaryotic cell-free systems from mammalian (rat liver and rabbit reticulocyte lysates) and prokaryotic cell-free systems (Escherichia coli). However, in contrast to gamma-hordothionin, omega-hordothionin did not inhibit plant systems such as Triticum aestivum, Cucumis sativus, Vicia sativa and Hordeum vulgare. Gamma-hordothionin also inhibited the alpha-amylase activity from human saliva, while omega-hordothionin and the other different genetic variants of thionins, alpha-hordothionin and beta-hordothionin, failed to show any inhibitory effect.
Three recessive mutagen-induced alleles that partially suppress the phenotypic expression of the semidominant powdery mildew resistance gene Mla12 have been studied. When each suppressor is present in homozygous condition, the infection type 0, conferred by gene Mla12 when homozygous, is changed to intermediate infection types. The three suppressor lines were crossed with seven near-isogenic lines with different powdery mildew resistance genes and one, M100, was crossed with nine additional lines. Seedlings of parents and from the F1and F2 generations were tested with powdery mildew isolates that possessed the appropriate avirulence and virulence genes. The segregation of phenotypes in the F2 generation disclosed that the three suppressors affected the phenotypic expression of three resistance genes, whereas that of four resistance genes remained unaffected. The suppressor in mutant M100 affected the phenotypic expression of 9 of the 10 additional resistance genes present. It is suggested that the three suppressors are mutationally modified genes involved in host defence processes. This implies that different resistance genes employ different, but overlapping, spectra of defence processes, or signal transduction pathways. Key words : barley, Hordeum vulgare, powdery mildew, Erysiphe graminis hordei, mutation, resistance, suppressor.
Higher plants express genes encoding peroxiredoxins of the two-cysteine type. This is concluded from the isolation of cDNAs from spinach (Spinacia oleracea) and barley (Hordeum vulgare cv. Gerbel) which are homologous to animal, fungal, and bacterial two-cysteine peroxiredoxins. Northern blot analysis indicated the presence of at least one corresponding gene in all angiosperms analyzed suggesting that bas1 is a member of an ubiquitous gene family encoding a protein of fundamental importance in oxidative stress defense also in plants. In barley, expression increased upon application of methyl viologen but was not affected by ozone. mRNA levels increased during deetiolation in the light. Maximal abundance of bas1 transcripts was observed in young developing shoot segments where cell division and elongation take place. Expression was insignificant in roots. The amount of bas1 protein was high in the leaf blade, particularly in etiolated plants, and did not respond to oxidative stress. bas1 protein was not detected in roots. From our data, we suggest that bas1 is an antioxidant enzyme particularly important in the developing shoot and photosynthesizing leaf.
Three cDNA clones have been isolated on the basis of altered patterns of expression in the leaf extension zone of the developmental mutant, slender barley, compared with the wild type. mRNAs corresponding to two of the cDNAs, 7s and 8s, are increased in slender compared with normal. 7s encodes a putative gamma-TIP and is expressed throughout the elongation zone. gamma-TIPs form transmembrane channels which allow the passive transfer of water. Although expression of 7s was increased in slender leaf tissue, the increase was much less extreme than that shown by Phillips and Huttly (1994) following the application of GA to an extreme dwarf of Arabidopsis. 8s is maximally expressed in the region of early cell elongation and has 66% encoded protein identity with MFS18, a cDNA encoding a putative cell wall structural protein isolated from male flowers of maize. Both 8s and MFS18 encode small (128 amino acids) basic proteins rich in glycine, alanine, proline and serine. mRNA corresponding to the third cDNA, 24n, is present at a greatly reduced level in slender compared with normal and encodes protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase (POR). POR catalyses the conversion of protochlorophyllide into chlorophyllide. The reduced level of POR mRNA is not correlated with a similar reduction in expanded leaf blade chlorophyll levels. Western analysis identified two POR proteins present in light-grown seedlings. Whilst the larger of the proteins is present throughout most of the leaf, the smaller protein mimics the mRNA results, being both maximally present in the elongation tissue and present at a reduced level in slender. An antagonistic relationship between chlorophyll biosynthesis and extension growth is suggested.
In plants tetrapyrrole synthesis is initially light regulated on the level of 5-aminolevulinate (ALA) synthesis. ALA is formed from glutamate in three enzymatic steps. Glutamyl tRNA reductase (GluTR) catalyses the NADPH-dependent reduction of glutamyl tRNA to glutamate 1-semialdehyde. GluTR is encoded by a low-copy gene family consisting of three to four genes. Three different cDNA clones are presented. Full-length clones BHA1 and 87 differ in the length of the 3' untranslated region and code for a 58.5 kDa protein. The sequence of the partial clone, BHA13, contains at least 87 base mismatches in the coding region for the mature GluTR resulting in 11 amino acid substitutions. Synthesis of a recombinant mature and a truncated GluTR lacking the first 19 amino terminal amino acids in Escherichia coli lead only in the latter case to complementation of an E. coli hemA mutant. Steady-state level of BHA1- and BHA13-specific mRNA encoding GluTR were analysed by Northern blot hybridization using cDNA-specific oligo nucleotides and quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Accumulation of the two RNA species is light induced in greening barley and controlled during cellular development. In contrast to BHA13, BHA1 transcripts are present in roots and are elevated after cytokinin treatment of dark-grown seedlings. Furthermore, BHA1 mRNA shows oscillation under circadian growth conditions. GluTR transcript levels correlate with the capacity for ALA synthesis indicating that the rate-limiting substrate flux through the ALA synthesizing pathway can be at least partially attributed to GluTR expression. Consequences of the initial control of the chlorophyll metabolic pathway on the level of ALA formation are discussed.
The light-dependent reduction of protochlorophyllide to chlorophyllide in higher plants is catalyzed by two closely related enzymes, the NADPH-Pchlide oxidoreductases A and B that are encoded by the nuclear genes PorA and PorB, respectively. The expression of the PorA gene is negatively regulated by light. It has formerly been reasoned that, apart from the well-studied transcriptional down-regulation, a post-transcriptional mechanism may exist that contributes markedly to the light-induced decline of PorA mRNA steady-state levels. We investigated the degradation kinetics of the PorA messenger after inhibiting RNA synthesis with cordycepin. The PorA mRNA was found to be inherently unstable. In contrast, the PorB mRNA was shown to be stabilized in the presence of cordycepin, suggesting degradation by a mechanism different from that of PorA mRNA degradation. The PorA messenger instability is postulated to be conferred by a previously described plant-specific DST element in its 3'UTR.
The BARE-1 retrotransposon occurs in more than 10(4) copies in the barley genome. The element is bounded by long terminal repeats (LTRs, 1829 bp) containing motifs typical of retrotransposon promoters. These, the presence of predicted priming sites for reverse transcription, and the high conservation for all key functional domains of the coding region suggest that copies within the genome could be active retrotransposons. In view of this, we looked for transcription of BARE-1 within barley tissues and examined the promoter function of the BARE-1 LTR. We demonstrate here that BARE-1-like elements are transcribed in barley tissues, and that the transcripts begin within the BARE-1 LTR downstream of TATA boxes. The LTR can drive expression of reporter genes in transiently transformed barley protoplasts. This is dependent on the presence of a TATA box functional in planta as well. Furthermore, we identify regions within the LTR responsible for expression within protoplasts by deletion analyses of LTR-luc constructs. Similarities between promoter regulatory motifs and regions of the LTR were identified by comparisons to sequence libraries. The activity of the LTR as a promoter, combined with the abundance of BARE-1 in the genome, suggests that BARE-1 may retain the potential for propagation in the barley genome.
The barley cysteine proteinase B (EPB) is the main protease responsible for the degradation of endosperm storage proteins providing nitrogenous nutrients to support the growth of young seedlings. The expression of this enzyme is induced in the germinating seeds by the phytohormone, gibberellin, and suppressed by another phytohormone, abscisic acid. In situ hybridization experiments indicate that EPB is expressed in the scutellar epithelium within 24 h of seed germination, but the aleurone tissue surrounding the starchy endosperm eventually becomes the main tissue expressing this enzyme. The EPB gene family of barley consists of two very similar genes, EPB1 and EPB2, both of which have been mapped to chromosome 3. The sequences of EPB1 and EPB2 match with the two previously published cDNA clones indicating that both genes are expressed. Interestingly, neither of these genes contain any introns, a rare phenomenon in which all members of a small gene family are active intronless genes. Sequence comparison indicates that the barley EPB family can be classified as cathepsin L-like endopeptidases and is most closely related to two legume cysteine proteinases (Phaseolus vulgaris EP-C1 and Vigna mungo SHEP) which are also involved in seed storage protein degradation. The promoters of EPB1 and EPB2 have been linked to the coding sequence of a reporter gene, GUS, encoding beta-glucuronidase, and introduced into barley aleurone cells using the particle bombardment method. Transient expression studies indicate that EPB promoters are sufficient to confer the hormonal regulation of these genes.
The barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) gamma-b gene encodes a 17 kDa cysteine-rich protein known to affect virulence and to have a role in regulating viral gene expression. We have constructed recombinant gamma-b-glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins in Escherichia coli and have determined the ability of the purified fusion proteins and various mutant derivatives to bind nucleic acids in vitro. Gel-shift analyses revealed that the wild-type gamma-b-fusion protein is able to bind RNA cooperatively. The binding affinity is highly selective for single-stranded RNA because double-stranded RNA, single-stranded and double-stranded DNA, and transfer RNA were unable to compete for binding with the labelled RNA probes. However, BSMV-specific sequence binding was not observed since a chloroplast RNA competed for binding with 32P-labelled transcripts derived from the BSMV genome. The first 44 amino acids of the 152 amino acid gamma-b fusion protein encompassing one of two cysteine-rich 'zinc finger-like' motifs, and a basic region separating the finger-like motifs are required for RNA binding. Site- specific amino acid substitutions within two groups of lysine and arginine residues located in the basic motif reduced the binding affinity of the fusion protein greatly, but cysteine and histidine substitutions designed to disrupt the finger-like motifs failed to have appreciable effects on binding. These findings indicate that the regulatory properties of gamma-b may be mediated in part by RNA binding activities.
A cDNA library was constructed from germinating conidia of the obligate biotrophic fungus, Erysiphe graminis DC ex Mérat f.sp. hordei Em. Marchal (Egh). Subtractive hybridization and differential screening were carried out. Two cDNA clones, cEgh7 and cEgh16, which were highly expressed in germinating conidia, but not in ungerminated conidia, were selected for further characterization. The corresponding genomic sequences, gEgh7 and gEgh16, were isolated from a cosmid library and sequenced. The gEgh7 gene contains an open reading frame (ORF) that codes for a 249-amino-acid (aa), Pro-rich polypeptide with a repeated primary structure. Expression studies in planta indicated that gEgh7 may have a function in the development and maturation of conidia. The ORF of gEgh16 is interrupted by two introns of 91 and 119 bp. It encodes a 251-aa polypeptide of unknown function. This gene belongs to a multigene family and is expressed during all developmental stages of Egh in planta and may be associated with hyphal growth.
The codon usage of a hybrid bacterial gene encoding a thermostable (1,3-1,4)-beta-glucanase was modified to match that of the barley (1,3-1,4)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme EII gene. Both the modified and unmodified bacterial genes were fused to a DNA segment encoding the barley high-pI alpha-amylase signal peptide downstream of the barley (1,3-1,4)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme EII gene promoter. When introduced into barley aleurone protoplasts, the bacterial gene with adapted codon usage directed synthesis of heat stable (1,3-1,4)-beta-glucanase, whereas activity of the heterologous enzyme was not detectable when protoplasts were transfected with the unmodified gene. In a different expression plasmid, the codon modified bacterial gene was cloned downstream of the barley high-pI alpha-amylase gene promoter and signal peptide coding region. This expression cassette was introduced into immature barley embryos together with plasmids carrying the bar and the uidA genes. Green, fertile plants were regenerated and approximately 75% of grains harvested from primary transformants synthesized thermostable (1,3-1,4)-beta-glucanase during germination. All three trans genes were detected in 17 progenies from a homozygous T1 plant.
B- and C-hordein gene transcription is severely reduced in the endosperm of the regulatory barley mutant lys3a, and this is correlated with persistent hypermethylation of the promoters. In contrast, D-hordein is expressed at normal levels in the mutant. To confirm the connection between methylation and transcriptional activity, a genomic D-hordein clone was isolated and sequenced. The nucleotide composition of the promoter region revealed a CpG island and methylation analysis, using bisulphite treatment of genomic DNA, confirmed that the D-hordein promoter is unmethylated in endosperm and leaf tissue. Immunocytochemical studies localized D-hordein to the reticular component of protein bodies in both the wild-type Bomi and lys3a. Transient expression of GUS reporter gene constructs in barley endosperm, following transfection by particle bombardment revealed the D-hordein promotors. Comparison of transient expression in Bomi and lys3a endosperm demonstrated that the activities of the unmethylated D-hordein and the Hor1-14 C-hordein promoters were equivalent, while the activities in the mutant of the Horl-17 C-hordein and the Hor2-4 B-hordein promoters were reduced two- and tenfold, respectively. Methylation of plasmids in vitro prior to expression severely inhibited B- and D-hordein promoter activities. Based on these observations two categories of promoters for endosperm-specific expression of storage proteins are recognized and a model involving methylation and modulation of chromatin structure in the regulation by the Lys3 gene is presented.
A 76 amino acid sequence of NDH-A (the protein encoded by plastid ndhA gene) from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) was expressed as a fusion protein with beta-galactosidase in E. coli. The corresponding antibody generated in rabbits was used to investigate localization, expression and synthesis in vitro of NDH-A. NDH-A was identified as a 35 kDa polypeptide localized in thylakoid membrane. Western blots shows a large increase in NDH-A levels when barley leaves were incubated under photooxidative conditions, which was more pronounced in mature-senescent leaves than in young leaves. Immunoprecipitation of the [35S]methionine labelled proteins, synthesized in vitro by isolated chloroplasts, demonstrated the synthesis in chloroplasts of the NDH-A 35 kDa polypeptide when barley leaves had been incubated under photooxidative conditions. The results indicate that ndh genes may be involved in the protection of chloroplasts against photooxidative stress, particularly in mature-senescent leaves.
A reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was developed for specific detection of RNA1 and RNA2 of two barely mild mosaic virus strains (BaMMV-Ka1 and BaMMV-Na1) and a barley yellow mosaic virus strain (BaYMV-II-1). Mechanical inoculation of barley cultivars with a mixture of BaMMV-Ka1 and BaMMV-Na1, followed by RT-PCR to detect RNA components in infected plants, revealed that the RNAs of the two strains were exchangeable in vivo to generate all nine possible combinations containing at least one RNA1 and one RNA2. Infected plants with mixed or reassorted RNAs were selected and used as inocula for further analysis of cultivar reactions. The results demonstrate that the pathogenicity and symptomatology are determined solely by RNA1. In contrast, following inoculation with mixtures of BaYMV-II-1 and either BaMMV-Ka1 or BaMMV-Na1, no heterologous combinations of their RNAs were observed.
Despite numerous demonstrations of protein degradation in chloroplasts of higher plants, little is known about the identity of the proteases involved in these reactions. To identify chloroplast proteases by immunological means, we investigated two proteins: ClpP, a protein similar to the proteolytic subunit of the bacterial ATP-dependent Clp protease, for which a gene is found in the chloroplast genome [Maurizi, M.R., Clark, W.P., Kim, S. H. & Gottesman, S. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 12546-12552] and PrcA, a cyanobacterial Ca2+-stimulated protease [Maldener, I., Lockau, W., Cai, Y. & Wolk, P. (1991) Mol. & Gen. Genet. 225, 113-120]. We expressed the clpP gene from rice in Escherichia coli, purified its product, and generated antibodies against the product. Western blot analysis revealed the ClpP protein in different leaf extracts. Analysis of fractionated barley chloroplasts revealed that the protein was associated with the stromal fraction. The expression of ClpP is light independent and tissue specific, as it was found in green and etiolated barley leaves, but not in roots. A second protein, similar to the cyanobacterial protease PrcA, was also detected in chloroplasts. Antibody against this protease recognized proteins in various leaf extracts. When pea chloroplasts were fractionated, the antibody only recognized a stromal protein. The expression of this protein is regulated by light, as it was found in green leaves, but not in etiolated leaves. The tissue specificity of PrcA was similar to that of ClpP in that it could not be detected in root extracts.
Barley mutants in the loci Xantha-f, Xantha-g and Xantha-h, when fed with 5-aminolevulinate in the dark, accumulate protoporphyrin IX. Mutant alleles at these loci that are completely blocked in protochlorophyllide synthesis are also blocked in development of prolamellar bodies in etioplasts. In contrast to wild type, the xan-f, -g and -h mutants had no detectable Mg-chelatase activity, whereas they all had methyltransferase activity for synthesis of Mg-protoporphyrin monomethyl ester. Antibodies recognising the CH42 protein of Arabidopsis thaliana and the OLIVE (OLI) protein of Antirrhinum majus immunoreacted in wild-type barley with 42 and 150 kDa proteins, respectively. The xan-h mutants lacked the protein reacting with antibodies raised against the CH42 protein. Two xan-f mutants lacked the 150 kDa protein recognised by the anti-OLI antibody. Barley genes homologous to the A. majus olive and the A. thaliana Ch-42 genes were cloned using PCR and screening of cDNA and genomic libraries. Probes for these genes were applied to Northern blots of RNA from the xantha mutants and confirmed the results of the Western analysis. The mutants xan-f27, -f40, -h56 and -h57 are defective in transcript accumulation while -h38 is defective in translation. Southern blot analysis established that h38 has a deletion of part of the gene. Mutants xan-f10 and -f41 produce both transcript and protein and it is suggested that these mutations are in the catalytic sites of the protein. It is concluded that X an-f -h genes encode two subunits of the barley Mg-chelatase and that X an-g is likely to encode a third subunit. The XAN-F protein displays 82% amino acid sequence identity to the OLI protein of Antirrhinum, 66% to the Synechocystis homologue and 34% identity to the Rhodobacter BchH subunit of Mg-chelatase. The XAN-H protein has 85% amino acid sequence identity to the Arabidopsis CH42 protein, 69% identity to the Euglena CCS protein, 70% identity to the Cryptomonas BchA and Olisthodiscus CssA proteins, as well as 49% identity to the Rhodobacter BchI subunit of Mg-chelatase. Identification of the barley X an-f and X an-h encoded proteins as subunits required for Mg-chelatase activity supports the notion that the Antirrhinum OLI protein and the Arabidopsis Ch42 protein are subunits of Mg-chelatase in these plants. The expression of both thet X an-f and -h genes in wild-type barley is light induced in leaves of greening seedlings, and in green tissue the genes are under the control of a circadian clock.
Germin gene expression in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seedlings responds to developmental and environmental cues. During seed germination, germin mRNA levels were maximal 2 d after the start of imbibition in control seedlings and declined to low levels by 6 d. When seeds were sown in the presence of 200 mM NaCl, germin mRNA levels were also maximal after 2 d, but NaCl treatment, which slowed seedling growth, prolonged germin gene expression for an additional 1 d. In 4-d-old seedlings, germin mRNA levels were highest in roots and higher in the vascular transition region than in shoots. In roots of 6-d-old seedlings, germin gene expression was regulated by salt shock and plant growth regulators. Induced germin mRNA levels were maximal 8 h after treatment with NaCl, salicylate, methyl salicylate, or methyl jasmonate and 4 h after treatment with abscisic acid and indoleacetic acid. Like germin mRNA, dehydrin mRNA levels were maximal 8 h after NaCl treatment. In contrast, peroxidase mRNA levels declined to less than control levels within 30 min of treatment. Germin gene expression is regulated developmentally by salt stress and by treatments with plant hormones. Since germin is an oxalate oxidase, these result imply that oxalate has important roles in plant development and homeostasis.
A low-temperature-responsive gene, blt 801, isolated from a winter barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cDNA library prepared from leaf meristematic tissue, was sequenced. The deduced amino acid sequence predicts a glycine-rich RNA-binding protein (GR-RNP) which was homology to stress-responsive GR-RNPs from several other plant species. BLT 801 is a two-domain protein, the amino-terminal domain comprises a consensus RNA-binding domain similar to that found in many eukaryotic genes and the carboxy-terminal domain is extremely glycine-rich (68.5% glycine). Blt 801 mRNA also accumulates in response to the phytohormone abscisic acid. The protein encoded by blt 801 has been produced as a recombinant fusion protein using a bacterial expression vector. The fusion protein, a chimaera of glutathione S-transferase and BLT 801, has been used in studies to determine nucleic acid binding and other characteristics. Binding studies with single-stranded nucleic acids show that BLT 801 has affinity for homoribopolymers G, A and U but not C, it also binds to single-stranded DNA and selects RNA molecules containing open loop structures enriched in adenine but low in cytosine. Blt 801 has a consensus motif for phosphorylation by cAMP protein kinase (PKA) at the junction between the two domains which can be phosphorylated by PKA in vitro and which, by analogy to animal studies, may have significance for controlling enzyme function.
Sequence analysis of the two cDNA clones 47/11 and 50A which were isolated by differential screening of an explant cDNA library obtained from the monocot Tritordeum (hexaploid hybrid of diploid wild barley and tetraploid wheat lines) reveals that both clones include the same open reading frame (ORF). The sequence of this ORF shows a high degree of similarity with dicot S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC) gene sequences and contains regions highly conserved in all known SAMDC sequences. It is further shown that the sequence represented by the cDNA clones 47/11 and 50A is derived from the wild barley (Hordeum chilense) genome, where it is present as a single-copy gene. Northern analyses indicate the corresponding transcript to accumulate in response to wounding and the transcript level changes with a circadian rhythm, having a beak in the middle of the light period. The periodicity continues in constant light, but is changed in constant darkness.
Regulation of protein synthesis by eukaryotic initiation factor-2alpha (eIF-2alpha) phosphorylation is a highly conserved phenomenon in eukaryotes that occurs in response to various stress conditions. Protein kinases capable of phosphorylating eIF-2alpha have been characterized from mammals and yeast. However, the phenomenon of eIF2-alpha-mediated regulation of protein synthesis and the presence of an eIF-2alpha kinase has not been demonstrated in higher plants. We show that plant eIF-2alpha (peIF-2alpha) and mammalian eIF-2alpha (meIF-2alpha) are phosphorylated similarly by both the double-stranded RNA-binding kinase, pPKR, present in plant ribosome salt wash fractions and the meIF-2alpha kinase, PKR. By several criteria, phosphorylation of peIF-2alpha is directly correlated with pPKR protein and autophosphorylation levels. Significantly, pPKR is capable of specifically phosphorylating Ser51 in a synthetic eIF-2alpha peptide, a key characteristic of the eIF-2alpha kinase family. Taken together, these data support the concept that pPKR is a member of the eIF-2alpha kinase family. In addition, the inhibition of brome mosaic virus RNA in vitro translation in wheat germ lysates by the addition of double-stranded RNA, phosphorylated peIF-2alpha, meIF-2alpha, or activated human PKR suggests that plant protein synthesis may be regulated via phosphorylation of eIF-2alpha.
Genomic RNA beta of barley strip mosaic virus (BSMV) contains four defined open reading frames (ORFs). These include the coat protein (beta a) and a "triple gene block" consisting of the beta b, beta c, and beta d ORFs that overlap one another. Two subgenomic beta RNAs (sgRNA beta 1 and sgRNA beta 2) with sizes of 2.5 and 0.96 kb were identified in BSMV-infected protoplasts, and their transcription initiation sites were mapped to nucleotides 789 and 2327, respectively, of RNA beta by primer extension experiments. In a cell-free wheat germ translation system, genomic RNA beta served as a mRNA only for the 22-kDa coat protein, and sgRNA beta 1 directed synthesis of only the 58-kDA beta b protein. However, with sgRNA beta 2, three proteins with sizes of 14, 17, and 23 kDa were synthesized. Both the 14- and the 23-kDa proteins were recognized by the beta d antibodies in vitro and in vivo. These results demonstrated that the 14-kDa protein was encoded by the beta d ORF and suggested that the 23-kDa protein, designated beta d', is a readthrough product of the amber stop codon of the beta d ORF. Mutagenesis of sgRNA beta 2 revealed that the 17-kDa protein was a product of the beta c ORF. Expression of sgRNA beta 1 and sgRNA beta 2 was also investigated with the chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) reporter gene in protoplasts coinfected with RNAs alpha and gamma plus chimeric RNA beta derivatives containing the CAT gene in-frame with the beta b, beta c, beta d, or beta d' ORFs. Elimination of the sgRNA beta 1 promoter abolished CAT expression from the beta b-CAT chimeric RNA, and removal of the sgRNA beta 2 promoter prevented CAT expression from the beta c-CAT, beta d-CAT, and beta d'-CAT chimeric RNAs. Taken together, these results demonstrate that the BSMV coat protein is the sole translation product of the genomic RNA beta, whereas sgRNA beta 1 serves as a messenger for translation of the beta b protein, and sgRNA beta 2 functions as a messenger for translation of beta c and beta d and the newly discovered beta d' protein. Additional mutagenesis experiments indicate that beta c is translated by a leaky scanning mechanism.
Several variants of the replacement histone H3 genes from soybean, barley and wheat have been cloned and sequenced. Analysis of segregating populations in barley and soybean, as well as analysis of clones isolated from a soybean genomic library, suggested that these genes are dispersed throughout the genome. Several genes contains introns located in similar positions, but of different lengths and sequence. Comparison of mRNA levels in different tissues revealed that the intron-containing and intronless genes have different expression patterns. The distribution of the introns in the histone H3 genes across several plant species suggests that some of the introns might have been lost during the evolution of the gene family. Sequence divergence among introns and gene-flanking sequences in cloned gene variants allowed us to use them as specific probes for localizing individual gene copies and analyzing the genomic distribution of these variants across a range of genotypes.
The cereal aleurone functions during germination by secreting hydrolases, mainly alpha-amylase, into the starchy endosperm. Multiple signal transduction pathways exist in cereal aleurone cells that enable them to modulate hydrolase production in response to both hormonal and environmental stimuli. Gibberellic acid (GA) promotes hydrolase production, whereas abscisic acid (ABA), hypoxia, and osmotic stress reduce amylase production. In an effort to identify the components of transduction pathways in aleurone cells, we have investigated the effect of okadaic acid (OA), a protein phosphatase inhibitor, on stimulus-response coupling for GA, ABA, and hypoxia. We found that OA (100 nM) completely inhibited all the GA responses that we measured, from rapid changes in cytosolic Ca2+ through changes in gene expression and accelerated cell death. OA (100 nM) partially inhibited ABA responses, as measured by changes in the level of PHAV1, a cDNA for an ABA-induced mRNA in barley. In contrast, OA had no effect on the response to hypoxia, as measured by changes in cytosolic Ca2+ and by changes in enzyme activity and RNA levels of alcohol dehydrogenase. Our data indicate that OA-sensitive protein phosphatases act early in the transduction pathway of GA but are not involved in the response to hypoxia. These data provide a basis for a model of multiple transduction pathways in which the level of cytosolic Ca2+ is a key point of convergence controlling changes in stimulus-response coupling.
Gibberellins are noted for their ability to induce expression of genes, such as alpha-amylase, in the aleurone layers of cereals. However, a number of mRNA species in the mature imbibed aleurone cell of barley, such as a storage globulin (Heck et al., Mol Gen Genet 239: 209-218 1993), are simultaneously and specifically repressed by gibberellin. In a continuing effort to understand this effect, we report cloning and characterization of two additional cDNAs from barley designated pHvGS-1 and pcHth3 that have high corresponding mRNA levels in the mature imbibed aleurone but are repressed 10-fold or more within 24 h of treatment with gibberellic acid (GA3). The extent of repression was concentration dependent and maximally effective at 10(-6) M GA3. Repression was also noted in the constitutive gibberellin response mutant, slender, in the absence of exogenous GA3. The antagonistic phytohormone, abscisic acid, had no effect or was weakly inductive of the steady-state levels of these mRNAs. During development of the seed, repressible mRNAs are present to different degrees in the maturing aleurone layer and embryo, but not in the starchy endosperm. Some repressible mRNA persists in the mature dry aleurone layer, but is degraded during imbibition, replenished by de novo transcription, and maintained at high steady-state levels until GA3 is perceived. Preliminary investigation suggests that repression is at least partly due to destabilization of the mRNAs which have estimated half-lives of 12 h or greater in the absence of GA3. pcHth3 encodes a member of the gamma-thionin gene family located on chromosome 7. pHvGS-1 corresponds to a gene on chromosome 3 of unknown function.
A late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) protein gene, HVA1, from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) was introduced into rice suspension cells using the Biolistic-mediated transformation method, and a large number of independent transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants were generated. Expression of the barley HVA1 gene regulated by the rice actin 1 gene promoter led to high-level, constitutive accumulation of the HVA1 protein in both leaves and roots of transgenic rice plants. Second-generation transgenic rice plants showed significantly increased tolerance to water deficit and salinity. Transgenic rice plants maintained higher growth rates than nontransformed control plants under stress conditions. The increased tolerance was also reflected by delayed development of damage symptoms caused by stress and by improved recovery upon the removal of stress conditions. We also found that the extent of increased stress tolerance correlated with the level of the HVA1 protein accumulated in the transgenic rice plants. Using a transgenic approach, this study provides direct evidence supporting the hypothesis that LEA proteins play an important role in the protection of plants under water-or salt-stress conditions. Thus, LEA genes hold considerable potential for use as molecular tools for genetic crop improvement toward stress tolerance.
We have cloned, sequenced and expressed a recombinant group IX pollen allergen from barley (Hordeum vulgare). Hor v 9 is a polypeptide of 313 amino acids. The Hor v 9 cDNA clone was engineered into the E. coli protein expression vector pMAL and expressed as a fusion of maltose binding protein and truncated Hor v 9. Polyclonal antibodies to the fusion protein were raised in mice. Cross-reactive proteins, RNA and DNA homologues were found in many agricultural species including wheat, rye, triticale, oats, maize, sunflower and flax. The presence of group IX-like proteins in a variety of agricultural crops may represent a previously uncharacterized aeroallergenic occupational hazard. Sequence comparisons of the barley allergen, Hor v 9, with Poa p 9 and other cloned group IX pollen allergens revealed putative structural domains common to all. These include a signal peptide, two conserved immunoglobulin-like motifs, a 150 amino acid highly conserved carboxyterminal domain and a carboxyterminal transmembrane helix. This structural arrangement is also found in cell adhesion molecules. The highly conserved T-cell epitope previously characterized and mapped in group IX allergens (and present in Hor v 9) was found in several human cell adhesion molecule sequences (VCAM, NCAM and CD2). This T-cell epitope corresponded to the most highly conserved amino acid residues common to all group IX homologues sequenced to date. CD2 and VCAM are known to play a role in allergic inflammation: VCAM is involved in the recruitment of lymphocytes to sites of inflammation, and cross-linking CD2 leads to T-cell activation. We anticipate that the similar structural arrangement of group IX allergens and human cell adhesion molecules, as well as the presence of a T-cell epitope common to group IX pollen allergens and cell adhesion molecules, will have important consequences in the natural history of the atopic immune response.
Two cDNAs coding for putative light-stress proteins of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) were cloned and the expression of the corresponding mRNAs analyzed in the barley leaf and compared to that of the well-studied ELIP (early-inducible protein) mRNA. During greening the mRNA for clone HL No. 2, which shows homology to two rice proteins of as yet unknown function, was transiently induced; its level rose more slowly and remained elevated for a longer time than was described for ELIP mRNAs. The mRNA corresponding to clone HL No. 13 was recognized as homologous to subunit P of pea glycine decarboxylase, a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial protein involved in photorespiration. Its mRNA level rose more slowly with cellular development than that of the mRNA for LHC II, the apoprotein of the chlorophyll-a/b-binding protein of PSII. The mRNAs of both novel proteins were induced by high light up to an irradiance of 2000 W.m-2. Their levels remained elevated under high light for up to 9 h, the longest time span examined, while after return to culture light conditions the mRNAs rapidly decayed, each with an individual time course. In green barley leaves the mRNA for clone HL No. 2 was expressed to the highest level in the most basal segment, similar to that of ELIPs, while in contrast the mRNA for subunit P of glycine decarboxylase accumulated to the highest level in the leaf apex where the fully developed cells and mitochondria reside. The latter finding strongly indicates that photorespiration is regulated by high light also at the level of mRNA transcription or mRNA accumulation. In addition, we show that perception of light stress is under the control of cellular development and differentiation.
A putative alpha-glucosidase clone has been isolated from a cDNA library constructed from mRNA of barley aleurones treated with gibberellin A 3 (GA). The clone is 2752 bp in length and has an uninterrupted open reading frame encoding a polypeptide of 877 amino acids. A 680 amino acid region is 43% identical to human lysosomal alpha-glucosidase and other glycosyl hydrolases. In isolated aleurones, the levels of the corresponding mRNA increase strongly after the application of GA, similar to the pattern exhibited by low-pI alpha-amylase mRNA. High levels are also observed in the aleurone and scutellum after germination, while low levels are found in developing seeds. The genome contains a single form of this alpha-glucosidase gene and two additional sequences that may be related genes or pseudogenes.
ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase), a heterotetrameric enzyme composed of two small and two large subunits, catalyses the first committed step of starch synthesis in plant tissues. In an attempt to learn more about the organization and expression of the small-subunit gene of AGPase, we have studied the small-subunit transcripts as well as the structure of the gene encoding these transcripts in barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Bomi). Two different transcripts (bepsF1 and blps14) were identified: bepF1 was abundantly expressed in the starchy endosperm but not in leaves, whereas blps14 was isolated from leaves but was also found to be present at a moderate level in the starchy endosperm. The sequences for the two transcripts are identical over approx. 90% of the length, with differences being confined solely to their 5' ends. In blps14, the unique 5' end is 259 nt long and encodes a putative plastid transit peptide sequence. For the 178-nt 5' end of bepsF1, on the other hand, no transit peptide sequence could be recognized. A lambda clone that hybridized to the AGPase transcripts was isolated from a barley genomic library and characterized. The restriction map has suggested a complex organization of the gene, with alternative exons encoding the different 5' ends of the two transcripts followed by nine exons coding for the common part of the transcripts. The sequence of a portion of the genomic clone, covering the alternative 5'-end exons as well as upstream regions, has verified that both transcripts are encoded by the gene. The results suggest that the small-subunit gene of barley AGPase transcribes two different mRNAs by a mechanism classified as alternative splicing.
The 22-kDa chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (CAB) (psbS gene product) is associated with photosystem II and related to the CAB gene family. Here we report that the PSII-S protein unlike other chlorophyll-binding proteins is stable in the absence of pigments. It is present in etiolated spinach plants and accumulates in the dark progressively with the cellular development of the seedlings. Furthermore, it is present in several pigment-deficient mutants. Analysis of the pigment composition of the PSII-S protein isolated from etiolated plants suggests that neither carotenoids nor chlorophyll precursors are involved in its stabilization in the dark. Exposure of etiolated spinach to light leads to further accumulation of the PSII-S protein, which appears more early than other chlorophyll-binding proteins. Accumulation of the PSII-S protein in green plants is developmentally regulated and restricted to photosynthetic tissues. It is suggested that the function of the PSII-S protein may not be light-harvesting but it could act as a ligand chaperone required for transient binding of pigments during biogenesis or turnover of chlorophyll-binding proteins. Such function would be essential for coordination between pigment biosynthesis and ligation as well as avoiding toxic effects of non-bound chlorophyll molecules.
Fructans play an important role in assimilate partitioning and possibly in stress tolerance in many plant families. Sucrose:fructan 6-fructosyltransferase (6-SFT), an enzyme catalyzing the formation and extension of beta-2,6-linked fructans typical of grasses, was purified from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). It occurred in two closely similar isoforms with indistinguishable catalytic properties, both consisting of two subunits with apparent masses of 49 and 23 kDa. Oligonucleotides, designed according to the sequences of tryptic peptides from the large subunit, were used to amplify corresponding sequences from barley cDNA. The main fragment generated was cloned and used to screen a barley cDNA expression library. The longest cDNA obtained was transiently expressed in Nicotiana plumbaginifolia protoplasts and shown to encode a functional 6-SFT. The deduced amino acid sequence of the cDNA comprises both subunits of 6-SFT. It has high similarity to plant invertases and other beta-fructosyl hydrolases but only little to bacterial fructosyltransferases catalyzing the same type of reaction as 6-SFT.
Particle gun acceleration appears to be a possible way to transform mycelium cells of obligate plant parasites growing on host surfaces. GUS expression was obtained in E. graminis f.sp. hordei cells after bombardment with the GUS gene under the control of the E. graminis f.sp. hordei &beta;-tubulin promoter. Three heterologous promoters, onefrom Aspergillus nidulans and two from Cochliobolus heterostrophus, gave very low or no expression of GUS.
Clones representing two distinct barley catalase genes, Cat1 and Cat2, were found in a cDNA library prepared from seedling polysomal mRNA. Both clones were sequenced, and their deduced amino acid sequences were found to have high homology with maize and rice catalase genes. Cat1 had a 91% deduced amino acid sequence identity to CAT-1 of maize and 92% to CAT B of rice. Cat2 had 72 and 79% amino acid sequence identities to maize CAT-2 and -3 and 89% to CAT A of rice. Barley, maize or rice isozymes could be divided into two distinct groups by amino acid homologies, with one group homologous to the mitochondria-associated CAT-3 of maize and the other homologous to the maize peroxisomal/glyoxysomal CAT-1. Both barley CATs contained possible peroxisomal targeting signals, but neither had favorable mitochondrial targeting sequences. Cat1 mRNA occurred in whole endosperms (aleurones plus starchy endosperm), in isolated aleurones and in developing seeds, but Cat2 mRNA was virtually absent. Both mRNAs displayed different developmental expression patterns in scutella of germinating seeds. Cat2 mRNA predominated in etiolated seedling shoots and leaf blades. Barley genomic DNA contained two genes for Cat1 and one gene for Cat2. The Cat2 gene was mapped to the long arm of chromosome 4, 2.9 cM in telomeric orientation from the mlo locus conferring resistance to the powdery mildew fungus (Erysiphe graminis f.sp. hordei).
The specific mechanism(s) by which some plant viruses are transmitted through seed, while others are excluded, is not known. Using infectious barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) RNAs transcribed in vitro from full-length cDNA clones, the viral genetic determinants of seed transmission have been mapped. Both pseudorecombinant and chimeric viruses were constructed from BSMV strains ND18 (seed transmitted) and CV17 (not seed transmitted). The markedly different seed transmissibility of these two strains facilitated the identification of RNAgamma as the location of the primary determinants of seed transmission phenotype. RNAbeta also played a role in seed transmission, but to a lesser extent than RNAgamma. Major genetic determinants of seed transmission on RNAgamma included the 5' untranslated leader, a 369-nt repeat in the gammaa gene, and the gammab gene. Important determinants of symptom phenotype mapped to the RNAgamma leader and the gammab gene as well. Some heterologous combinations of the RNAgamma leader and the gammab gene resulted in dramatic changes in symptomatology and seed transmission, depending on the parental source of RNAs alpha and beta. These results suggest that a complex interaction of the RNAgamma leader, the gammab gene, and RNAs alpha and beta are involved in BSMV pathogenesis. Considering the putative regulatory role of the gamma gene (Donald and Jackson 1994, Plant Cell 6:1593-1606) and the trans effects that alterations in the gammab gene have on RNAbeta gene expression (Petty et al., 1990, EMBO J. 9:3453-3457), phenotypic effects attributed to elements of RNAgamma could result from cis or trans interactions involving the RNAgamma leader, the gammab gene, and RNAs alpha and beta. Clearly, virus replication and movement play pivotal roles in the seed transmission of BSMV.
The ndhB-encoded transcript from barley chloroplasts deviates from the genomic ndhB sequence by nine C-to-U transitions, which is the maximum number of editing events for a chloroplast mRNA reported so far. Comparison with ndhB transcripts from other chloroplast species shows that six of the nine editing sites observed in barley are structurally and functionally conserved in maize, rice and tobacco. The remaining three sites, however, show divergent patterns of conservation even within the three members of the grass family. The conservation of two of these sites in tobacco but not in the closely related graminean species suggests that divergence of the ndhB editing sites is caused by the loss of preexisting editing sites rather than by gain of new sites.
We compared the organ specificity and the strength of different constitutive (CaMV-35S, CaMV-35Somega, Arabidopsis ubiquitin UBQ1, and barley leaf thionin BTH6 promoter) and one inducible promoter (soybean heat-shock promoter Gmhsp17.3) in stably transformed Arabidopsis thaliana plants. For this purpose we constructed a set of plant expression vectors equipped with the different promoters. Using the uidA reporter gene we could show that the CaMV-35S promoter has the highest expression level which was enhanced two- to threefold by the addition of a translational enhancer (TMV omega element) without altering the organ specificity of the promoter. The barley leaf thionin promoter was almost inactive in the majority of lines whereas the ubiquitin promoter exhibited an intermediate strength. The heat-shock promoter was inducible up to 18-fold but absolute levels were lower than in the case of the ubiquitin promoter. Conclusive quantitative results for different organs and developmental stages were obtained by the analysis of 24 stably transformed lines per promoter construct.
Functional analysis of a barley high-pI alpha-amylase gene promoter has identified a gibberellin (GA) response complex in the region between -174 and -108. The sequence of the central element, TAACAAA, is very similar to the c-Myb and v-Myb consensus binding site. We investigated the possibility that a GA-regulated Myb transactivates alpha-amylase gene expression in barley aleurone cells. A cDNA clone, GAmyb, which encodes a novel Myb, was isolated from a barley aleurone cDNA library. RNA blot analysis revealed that GAmyb expression in isolated barley aleurone layers is up-regulated by GA. The kinetics of GAmyb expression indicates that it is an early event in GA-regulated gene expression and precedes alpha-amylase gene expression. Cycloheximide blocked alpha-amylase gene expression but failed to block GAmyb gene expression, indicating that protein synthesis is not required for GAmyb gene expression. Gel mobility shift experiments with recombinant GAMyb showed that GAMyb binds specifically to the TAACAAA box in vitro. We demonstrated in transient expression experiments that GAMyb activates transcription of a high-pI alpha-amylase promoter fused to a beta-glucuronidase reporter gene in the absence of GA. Our results indicate that the GAMyb is the sole GA-regulated transcription factor required for transcriptional activation of the high-pI alpha-amylase promoter. We therefore postulate that GAMyb is a part of the GA-response pathway leading to alpha-amylase gene expression in aleurone cells.
A tonoplast protein of 31 kDa apparent molecular mass (TpP 31) was isolated from two-dimensional gels. Amino acid sequences were determined from LysC endoproteinase-peptide fragments. Using degenerate oligonucleotides, a corresponding cDNA clone of 1034 bp was isolated from a barley leaf cDNA library. It encodes for subunit E of the vacuolar H(+)-ATPase, the first one identified in plants so far. The open reading frame extends over 681 bp, encoding a gene product of 227 amino acids and a calculated molecular weight of 26,228 g mol-1. Northern and Western blot analysis indicates constitutive expression of subunit E in all plant organs with only small effects of salt stress. Localization of TpP 31 at the tonoplast was confirmed in fractions of purified vacuolar membrane obtained by free-flow electrophoresis. Immunoprecipitation of newly synthesized 35S-labelled membrane proteins with anti-TpP 31 gave two additional bands with apparent molecular masses of about 53 and 62 kDa. Gel filtration after mild solubilization showed co-purification of TpP 31 with the 55 kDa subunit of the H(+)-ATPase. Both results provide evidence beyond the sequence homology that TpP 31 is a structural component of the vacuolar H(+)-ATPase.
Tissue-specific expression of the gene coding for trypsin inhibitor BTI-CMe in barley (Itr1) occurs during the first half of endosperm development. In transgenic tobacco, the Itr1 promoter drives expression of the beta-glucuronidase reporter gene not only in developing endosperm but also in embryo, cotyledons and the meristematic intercotyledonary zone of germinating seedlings. A promoter fragment extending 343 bp upstream of the translation initiation ATG codon was sufficient for full transgene expression, whereas, the proximal 83 bp segment of the promoter was inactive. Possible reasons for the differences in expression patterns are discussed.
Deletion and point mutation analyses were employed to determine gene products and cis-acting signals involved in translation, replication, and encapsidation of barley yellow dwarf virus (PAV serotype) RNA in oat protoplasts. Of the six open reading frames (ORFs), only ORFs 1 and 2, which include the putative RNA-dependent RNA polymerase gene, were required for replication. In vitro translation of these mutants revealed that sequence upstream of the shifty heptanucleotide was required for ribosomal frameshifting, and that a 3'-translational enhancer stimulated translation more efficiently when located in closer proximity to the translated ORFs. Deletion of the coat protein gene reduced the accumulation of genomic but not subgenomic RNA. The carboxy-terminally extended form of the coat protein, produced by readthrough of its stop codon, was not required for encapsidation. Although the ORF6 product was not necessary, cis-acting RNA signals in and around ORF6 were required for RNA replication. Defective RNAs harboring various deletions were not replicated in trans by the co-inoculated wild-type helper genome, suggesting that replication of PAV RNA may be coupled to translation.
The plastid gene psbD encodes the photosystem II reaction center chlorophyll protein D2. psbD is located in a complex operon that includes psbC, psbK, psbl, orf62, and trnG. The operon is transcribed from at least three different promoters. One of the psbD promoters is differentially activated when plants are exposed to blue light. In this study, the psbD blue light-responsive promoter was accurately transcribed in vitro in high-salt extracts of barley plastids. Transcription required supercoiled templates and was inhibited by tagetitoxin, an inhibitor of plastid transcription. Escherichia coli RNA polymerase did not recognize the psbD light-responsive promoter with the same specificity as plastid RNA polymerase. Deletion analyses demonstrated that sequences between -39 and -68, upstream of the transcription initiation site, were required for transcription of the psbD blue light-responsive promoter. This DNA region is highly conserved among plant species and contains multiple AAG sequences. Gel shift assays and DNase I footprinting experiments demonstrated that the AAG-rich DNA sequence interacts with a sequence-specific DNA binding factor termed AGF. Point mutations in the AAG cis element decreased binding of AGF and inhibited transcription from the psbD light-responsive promoter. We concluded that AGF is an essential factor required for transcription of the psbD light-responsive promoter.
The highly conserved Group 1 late embryogenesis abundant (Lea) genes are present in the genome of most plants as a gene family. Family members are conserved along the entire coding region, especially within the extremely hydrophilic internal 20 amino acid motif, which may be repeated. Cloning of Lea Group 1 genes from barley resulted in the characterization of four family members named B19.1, B19.1b, B19.3 and B19.4 after the presence of this motif 1, 1, 3 and 4 times in each gene, respectively. We present here the results of comparative and evolutionary analyses of the barley Group 1 Lea gene family (B19). The most important findings resulting from this work are (1) the tandem clustering of B19.3 and B19.4, (2) the spatial conservation of putative regulatory elements between the four B19 gene promoters, (3) the determination of the relative 'age' of the gene family members and (4) the 'chimeric' nature of B19.3 and B19.4, reflecting a cross-over or gene-conversion event in their common ancestor. We also show evidence for the presence of one or two additional expressed B19 genes in the barley genome. Based on our results, we present a model for the evolution of the family in barley, including the 20 amino acid motif. Comparisons of the relatedness between the barley family and all other known Group 1 Lea genes using maximum parsimony (PAUP) analysis provide evidence for the time of divergence between the barley genes containing the internal motif as a single copy and as a repeat. The PAUP analyses also provide evidence for independent duplications of Group 1 genes containing the internal motif as a repeat in both monocots and dicots.
Inoculation of six brome mosaic virus (BMV) RNA3 transcripts with defined deletions in the coat protein (CP) gene to three Chenopodium spp demonstrated that synthesis of a functional, encapsidation-competent CP is required for the induction of local lesions. The BMV CP open reading frame contains two in-frame AUG codons separated by seven amino acids, resulting in the synthesis of two CPs (CP1 and CP2). To elucidate the biological significance of the N-terminal basic region of BMV CP, RNA3 variants capable of producing either CP1 or CP2 but not both were constructed. Infection phenotypes elicited on three Chenopodium spp by each RNA3 variant revealed that amino-terminal residues 1 to 7 are required to establish chlorotic local lesions and systemic infection in Chenopodium quinoa. Deletion of this region has no effect on infection in barley plants but resulted in the induction of the hypersensitive response on the inoculated leaves of C. quinoa and blocked systemic spread. Analysis of seven additional RNA3 variant transcripts, each having a six-base deletion (two amino acids) in the sequence encoding the N-terminal seven residues, indicated that variants that share a common deletion of positively charged lysine rendered the CP encapsidation-incompetent and failed to establish infection. Taken together, these results suggest that residues 1 to 7 of the BMV CP play an important role in virus-host interactions and contribute differently to the virulence phenotype in different host plants.
The barley mutant dbg 576 shows an extreme vegetative dwarf phenotype. This is reversed after the application of GA3 which also induces the mutant florets to become partly fertile. cDNA clones ES1A and ES2A were isolated by differential screening with subtracted probes from a DNA library prepared from mutant leaf blades after GA3 treatment. Both the ES1A and the ES2A mRNA level increases as early as 30 min after GA3 treatment and decreases later. Accumulation of ES1A and ES2A mRNAs is leaf blade-specific and both are ca. 750 nucleotides long. ES1A encodes a protein of approximately 6 kD which shows a significant homology with mammalian epidermal growth factors (EGFs). ES2A encodes a protein of 22 kDa with homology, in regions with potential amphiphilic helices, with the D7 family of late embryogenesis-abundant proteins (LEA).
An interval on barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) chromosome 7 accounting for significant quantitative trait locus effects for winter hardiness were detected in a winter (Dicktoo) x spring (Morex) barley population (P.M. Hayes, T. Blake, T.H.H. Chen, S. Tragoonrung, F. Chen, A. Pan, and B. Liu [1993] Genome 36: 66-71). Two members of the barley dehydrin gene family, Dhn1 and Dhn2, were located within the region defining the winter hardiness quantitative trait locus effect (A. Pan, P.M. Hayes, F. Chen, T. Blake, T.H.H. Chen, T.T.S. Wright, I. Karsai, Z. Bedo [1994] Theor Appl Genet 89: 900-910). To investigate the possible role of Dhn1 and Dhn2 in winter hardiness, we examined the expression pattern of six barley dehydrin gene family members in shoot tissue in response to cold temperature. Incubation of 3-week-old barley plants at 2[deg]C resulted in a rapid induction of a single 86-kD polypeptide that was recognized by an antiserum against a peptide conserved in the dehydrin gene family. Northern blot analysis confirmed the induction of an mRNA corresponding to Dhn5. The expression patterns of cold-induced dehydrins in shoot tissue for Dicktoo and Morex were identical under the conditions studied, in spite of the known phenotypic differences in their winter hardiness. These results, together with the allelic structure of selected high- and low-survival lines, suggest that the Dicktoo alleles at the Dhn1 and Dhn2 may not be the primary determinants of winter hardiness in barley.
cDNAs encoding three proteins from barley (Hordeum vulgare), a class-II chitinase (CHI), a class-II beta-1,3-glucanase (GLU) and a Type-I ribosome-inactivating protein (RIP) were expressed in tobacco plants under the control of the CaMV 35S-promoter. High-level expression of the transferred genes was detected in the transgenic plants by Northern and Western blot analysis. The leader peptides in CHI and GLU led to accumulation of these proteins in the intercellular space of tobacco leaves. RIP, which is naturally deposited in the cytosol of barley endosperm cells, was expressed either in its original cytosolic form or fused to a plant secretion peptide (spRIP). Fungal infection assays revealed that expression of the individual genes in each case resulted in an increased protection against the soilborne fungal pathogen Rhizoctonia solani, which infects a range of plant species including tobacco. To create a situation similar to 'multi-gene' tolerance, which traditional breeding experience has shown to provide crops with a longer-lasting protection, several of these antifungal genes were combined and protection against fungal attack resulting from their co-expression in planta was evaluated. Transgenic tobacco lines were generated with tandemly arranged genes coding for RIP and CHI as well as GLU and CHI. The performance of tobacco plants co-expressing the barley transgenes GLU/CHI or CHI/RIP in a Rhizoctonia solani infection assay revealed significantly enhanced protection against fungal attack when compared with the protection levels obtained with corresponding isogenic lines expressing a single barley transgene to a similar level. The data indicate synergistic protective interaction of the co-expressed antifungal proteins in vivo.
An infectious, in vitro transcript from a full-length cDNA clone of the barley yellow dwarf virus (PAV serotype) genome translated efficiently in a wheat germ translation extract. Deletions in a region that we call the 3' translational enhancer, located between bases 4,513 and 5,009 in the 5,677-base genome, reduced translation of the 5'-proximal open reading frames from uncapped RNA by at least 30-fold. Deletions elsewhere in all but the 5' end of the genome had no effect on translation. Presence of a m7G(5')pp(5')G cap on the 5' end fully restored translational efficiency of transcripts lacking the 3' translational enhancer. The translation enhancer reduced inhibition of translation by free cap analog, did not affect RNA stability, and did not function in reticulocyte lysates. When placed in the 3'-untranslated region of uncapped mRNA encoding the beta-glucuronidase gene, the translation enhancer stimulated translation more than 80-fold, in the presence of the viral, but not a plasmid-derived, 5' leader. A polyadenylate tail could not substitute for the 3' translation enhancer. These observations provide an extreme example, in terms of distance from the 5' end and level of stimulation, of an mRNA in which a sequence near the 3' end stimulates translation.
Optically active forms of abscisic acid (ABA) and their oxygenated metabolites were tested for their biological activity by examining the effects of the compounds on the reversal of gibberellic acid-induced [alpha]-amylase activity in barley (Hordeum vulgare cv Himalaya) aleurone layers and the induction of gene expression in barley aleurone protoplasts transformed with a chimeric construct containing the promoter region of an albumin storage protein gene. Promotion of the albumin storage protein gene response had a more strict stereochemical requirement for elicitation of an ABA response than inhibition of [alpha]-amylase gene expression. The naturally occurring stereoisomer of ABA and its metabolites were more effective at eliciting an ABA-like response. ABA showed the highest activity, followed by 7[prime]-hydroxyABA, with phaseic acid being the least active. Racemic 8[prime]-hydroxy-2[prime],3[prime]-dihydroABA, an analog of 8[prime]-hydroxyABA, was inactive, whereas racemic 2[prime],3[prime]-dihydroABA was as effective as ABA. The differences in response of the same tissue to the ABA enantiomers lead us to conclude that there exists more than one type of ABA receptor and/or multiple signal transduction pathways in barley aleurone tissue.
Sucrose synthase (EC 2.4.1.13) from carrot (Daucus carota) is a tetramer with a molecular mass of 320 kD and subunits of 80 kD. The enzyme has a pH optimum of 7.0 (cleavage direction). Maximal activities were measured at 55 degrees C. The Km for Suc was estimated as 87 mM and for UDP as 0.39 mM. Fructose acts as a noncompetitive inhibitor with an inhibition constant of 17.2 mM. In contrast, glucose inhibits carrot sucrose synthase uncompetitively with an inhibition constant of 4.3 mM. cDNA clones encoding a single class of sucrose synthase polypeptide were isolated and sequenced. DNA gel blot analysis also indicated the occurrence of only one to two genes. The deduced amino acid sequence of the carrot enzyme is highly homologous to the sucrose synthase sequences of tomato, potato, and bean. A comparison of the cDNA-derived amino acid sequence with the SS1- and SS2-type sucrose synthase sequences of the monocot plants maize, rice, and barley showed that the carrot enzyme is neither of the SS1 nor of the SS2 type. High enzyme activity was found in roots and petioles of developing carrot plants, with maximal activity in roots at the transition of primary roots to tap roots. Enzyme activity was highly correlated with both polypeptide and transcript levels, indicating that gene expression is regulated mainly at the mRNA level in the different tissues and organs of developing carrot plants.
The expression of a barley gene homologous to aldose reductase and aldehyde reductase is restricted to the embryo and temporally correlated with its acquisition of desiccation tolerance. In the work presented, two aspects of this barley gene were investigated: its transcriptional regulation and the initial characterization of the enzymatic function. The transcriptional regulation of the gene was studied in transgenic tobacco by analysing the expression of chimeric genes containing 5' sequences of the barley gene transcriptionally fused to the GUS reporter gene. This functional analysis of the promoter revealed that a 1364 bp 5' fragment confers the appropriate pattern of expression to the reporter gene in tobacco and that a short promoter fragment (-114 to +75) containing the sequence TACGTGGC, homologous to plant G-box elements, is sufficient for developmental expression during embryogenesis. To investigate the enzymatic properties of the gene product the wild-type protein and a mutant carrying a lysine 259 to methionine substitution were overexpressed in a procaryotic system and purified to homogeneity. The wild-type protein exhibits aldose reductase activity in the reduction of DL-glyceraldehyde and D-erythrose specifically using NADPH as co-factor whereas the mutant shows markedly reduced activity. However, the barley protein possesses some properties different to those of animal aldose and aldehyde reductases and its biological target still needs to be identified.
We have cloned and sequenced a full-length cDNA for uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (UROD, EC 4.1.1.37) from tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) and a partial cDNA clone from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). The cDNA of tobacco encodes a protein of 43 kDa, which has 33% overall similarity to UROD sequences determined from other organisms. We propose that tobacco UROD has an N-terminal extension of 39 amino acid residues. This extension is most likely a chloroplast transit sequence. The in vitro translation product of UROD was imported into pea chloroplasts and processed to ca. 39 kDa. A truncated cDNA, from which the putative transit peptide had been deleted, was used to over-express the mature UROD in Escherichia coli. Purified protein showed UROD activity, thus providing an adequate source for subsequent enzymatic characterization and inhibition studies. Expression of UROD was investigated by northern and western blot analysis during greening of etiolated barley seedlings, and in segments of barley primary leaves grown under day/night cycles. The amount of RNA and protein increased during illumination. Maximum UROD-RNA levels were detected in the basal segments relative to the top of the leaf.
In barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) the unit of inflorescence is the spikelet, which bears a fertile bract, the lemma, and the floret consisting of palea, two lodicules, three stamens and the pistil. The Hooded mutation causes the appearance of an extra flower of inverse polarity on the lemma. This phenotype is governed by the single dominant genetic locus K3. Here we show that the homeobox gene Knox3 represents this locus. Ectopic Knox3 gene expression in the primordium of the extra floret is caused by a 305-base pair duplication in intron 4, and phenocopies of the mutation are obtained in the heterologous tobacco system by Knox3 overexpression. It is concluded that homeotic genes of the Knox gene family are involved in floral evocation. Furthermore, the study of polarity of reproductive organs in K and related mutants can now focus on homeobox genes.
NADPH-protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase (POR; EC 1.6.99.1) catalyzes the only known light-dependent step in chlorophyll synthesis of higher plants, the reduction of protochlorophyllide (Pchlide) to chlorophyllide. In barley, two distinct immunoreactive POR proteins were identified. In contrast to the light-sensitive POR enzyme studied thus far (POR-A), levels of the second POR protein remained constant in seedlings during the transition from dark growth to the light and in green plants. The existence of a second POR-related protein was verified by isolating and sequencing cDNAs that encode a second POR polypeptide (POR-B) with an amino acid sequence identity of 75% to the POR-A. In the presence of NADPH and Pchlide, the in vitro-synthesized POR-A and POR-B proteins could be reconstituted to ternary enzymatically active complexes that reduced Pchlide to chlorophyllide only after illumination. Even though the in vitro activities of the two enzymes were similar, the expression of their genes during the light-induced transformation of etiolated to green seedlings was distinct. While the POR-A mRNA rapidly declined during illumination of dark-grown seedlings and soon disappeared, POR-B mRNA remained at an approximately constant level in dark-grown and green seedlings. Thus these results suggest that chlorophyll synthesis is controlled by two light-dependent POR enzymes, one that is active only transiently in etiolated seedlings at the beginning of illumination and the other that also operates in green plants.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) has two, differentially regulated, nitrate reductase (NR) genes, one encoding the NADH-specific NR (Nar1) and the other encoding the NAD(P)H-bispecific NR (Nar7). Regulation of the two NR genes by nitrate was investigated in wild-type Steptoe and in an NADH-specific NR structural gene mutant (Az12). Gene-specific probes were used to estimate NADH and NAD(P)H NR mRNAs. The kinetics of induction by nitrate were similar for the two NR genes; expression was generally below the limits of detection prior to induction, reached maximum levels after 1 to 2 h of induction in roots and 4 to 8 h of induction in leaves, and then declined to steady-state levels. Derepression of the NAD(P)H NR gene in leaves of the NADH-specific NR gene mutant Az12 did not appear to be associated with changes in nitrate assimilation products or nitrate flux. Nitrate deprivation resulted in rapid decreases in NADH and NAD(P)H NR mRNAs in seedling roots and leaves and equally rapid decreases in the concentration of nitrate in the xylem sap. These results indicate that factors affecting nitrate uptake and transport could have a direct influence on NR expression in barley leaves.
Phylogenetic relationships of 30 diploid species of Triticeae (Poaceae) representing 19 genomes were estimated from the sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA. The ITS sequence phylogeny indicated that: (i) each genome group of species is monophyletic, concordant with cytogenetic evidence; (ii) Hordeum (I) and Critesion (H) are basal; (iii) Australopyrum (W) is closely related to Agropyron (P); (iv) Peridictyon (G), Heteranthelium (Q), and Dasypyrum (V) are closely related to Pseudoroegneria (S); (v) most of the annuals, Triticum s.l. (A, B, D), Crithopsis (K), Taeniatherum (T), Eremopyrum (F), Henrardia (O), Secale (R), and two perennials, Thinopyrum (J) and Lophopyrum (E), all of Mediterranean origin, are a monophyletic group. However, phylogenetic trees based on morphology group these Mediteranean species with various perennial lineages of the Arctic-temperate region. The molecular data and biogeography of the tribe suggest that the Mediterranean lineage is derived from the Arctic-temperate lineage and that the two lineages have evolved in parallel. Extensive morphological parallelism apparently obscures the true genealogical history of the tribe when only morphology is considered.
Specific low-pI alpha-amylase genes from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) produced alternative mRNAs with a 17-base 3' extension (extension 1) or a 17-base extension beyond this (extension 2). The extended mRNAs do not arise from splicing of downstream sequences, and not all low-pI genes contain the extended sequences. All three mRNAs occur in aleurones and shoots, while extension 2 is missing from scutella. Also, the unextended mRNAs predominate in total mRNA, but the extended mRNAs predominate in membrane-bound polysomes. The extended sequences do not occur in previously characterized alpha-amylases, but 16 of 18 bases, mainly in extension 1, are identical with a sequence in the 3'-UTR of PAPI, a putative inhibitor of alpha-amylase. These observations suggest that the extended sequences could play a functional role in alpha-amylase expression.
To facilitate studies of virus-host interaction and the determinants of viral host range, we constructed full-length cDNA clones to all three genomic RNAs of an unusual brome mosaic virus (BMV) isolate with an expanded host range. While other BMV strains, including the previously cloned M1 strain, systemically infect barley and other grasses but not legumes, the expanded-host-range isolate and the set of transcripts from its cDNA clones, designated the M2 strain of BMV, systemically infect both barley and cowpea line TVu-612, a legume. All reassorted combinations of M1 and M2 genomic RNAs were equally competent for replication in barley protoplasts and systemic infection of barley plants but showed widely varying levels of viral RNA accumulation in cowpea protoplasts and systemic infection in TVu-612 cowpea plants. Systemic infection levels were influenced by all three genomic RNAs. M2 RNA2 and M2 RNA3 made independent and additive contributions to the frequency with which reassortants infected TVu-612 systemically. The greater individual effect segregated with M2 RNA3, which encodes functions required for infection spread (the 3a movement protein and coat protein). M2 RNA3 also directed accelerated expansion of BMV lesions in inoculated TVu-612 leaves. If the inoculum contained M2 RNA3, the frequency with which reassortants infected TVu-612 systemically could be further enhanced by the presence of M2 RNA1 rather than M1 RNA1. RNA1 encodes the 1a RNA replication protein, and despite similar accumulation in barley protoplasts, in cowpea protoplasts all reassortants bearing M2 RNA1 accumulated positive- and negative-strand RNAs to levels at least six- to eightfold higher than reassortants bearing M1 RNA1. Overall, the results indicate that changes in several distinct virus functions contribute to adapting BMV-M2 to systemically infect TVu-612 cowpea.
We have amplified and cloned DNA sequences derived from a gene encoding a SNF1 (sucrose-non-fermenting 1)-related protein kinase which differs from that previously reported from barley. Northern blot and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of RNA populations, using specific probes and oligonucleotide primers, indicated that the two SNF1-related genes are differentially regulated. One is expressed in all tissues, whereas the other is expressed at high levels in the seed endosperm and aleurone, but at levels undetectable by northern blot analysis in other tissues. Comparisons with other plant SNF1-related protein kinase genes suggest that the form which is expressed at greatly enhanced levels in the seed is less similar to the other plant homologues which have been reported and may be unique to cereals.
Purified particles of barley yellow dwarf luteovirus (BYDV) contain a major 22-kDa protein and a minor protein of approximately 58 kDa. The 22-kDa capsid protein is encoded by open reading frame (ORF) 3. ORF 5 is immediately downstream and in frame with ORF 3 and a 72-kDa protein can be translated via a readthrough suppression of the ORF 3 termination codon. Antibodies were produced against two Escherichia coli expressed polypeptides that represent the amino- and carboxyl-terminal halves of a putative 50-kDa protein encoded by ORF 5. Immunological analyses indicated that the 58-kDa protein associated with purified virions contained sequences encoded by ORF 3 and ORF 5. The carboxyl terminal portion of the full-length (72 kDa) readthrough protein was absent from the 58-kDa protein. The full-length readthrough protein was detected in infected oat protoplasts and plant tissue, but was not associated with virus particles purified from plants. The carboxyl-terminal portion of the 72-kDa readthrough protein was not required for aphid transmission; however, virus was transmitted more efficiently from protoplast extracts containing virions and soluble 72-kDa readthrough protein than from mock-inoculated protoplast extracts to which plant purified virus was added. The full-length readthrough protein, although not required for transmission, may increase the transmission efficiency of BYDV by aphids.
Methylation of deoxycytosine residues in plant nuclear DNA at CpG dinucleotides is generally assumed to suppress transcription, while deoxyadenosine methylation on recombinant reporter gene constructs transiently introduced into plant cells increases expression by uncharacterized mechanisms. A particle bombardment transient expression system was used in intact barley aleurone layers to quantitate the effects of CpG and A methylation on transcription from well-characterized hormone-regulated alpha-amylase promoters. Methylation of C in all CpG pairs had little effect on transcription. In contrast, the presence of methylated A residues in the sequence GATC scattered in the reporter plasmid outside of the promoter increased transcription two- to fivefold, regardless of the strength of the promoter, and proper hormonal regulation of transcription was maintained. The methyl-dA effect was similar when the amount of reporter construct DNA used was varied over a 20-fold range, beginning with an amount that gave only a small increment of expression above background. Similar enhancing effects for methyl-dA were seen with the CaMV 35S, maize Adh1, and maize ubiquitin promoters, though the magnitude varied for each individual promoter. Methyl-dA did not detectably affect plasmid DNA stability in aleurone cells in transient expression experiments because the enhancing effect of methyl-dA on expression was the same regardless of whether the assay was performed at 12 h or 40 h. Several proteins in wheat germ nuclear extracts bound preferentially to methylated DNA as assessed by gel retardation assays; one showed preferential binding to methyl-dA rather than methyl-CpG residues. The data indicate that the presence of methyl-dA in the vicinity of active promoters enhances transcription of nuclear genes in barley in a manner independent of the strength of the promoter. This effect may be mediated by a methyl-dA-binding protein.
It has recently been reported that ribosomes pause at specific sites during translation of the chloroplast photosystem II reaction center protein D1(1). We have obtained the stability map of local secondary structure of the mRNA of psbA gene, encoding for D1, by plotting the free energy of the optimal secondary structure of the local segment of the mRNA against the segment position along a base sequence of the mRNA. It was found that the positions of minima or lower free energy in the map coincide with the positions of the pausing sites during synthesis of D1. The result suggests that synthesis pauses of D1 could-be induced by the mRNA secondary structure.
Transient gene expression assays in barley aleurone protoplasts were used to identify a cis-regulatory element involved in the elicitor-responsive expression of the maize PRms gene. Analysis of transcriptional fusions between PRms 5' upstream sequences and a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene, as well as chimeric promoters containing PRms promoter fragments or repeated oligonucleotides fused to a minimal promoter, delineated a 20 bp sequence which functioned as an elicitor-response element (ERE). This sequence contains a motif (-246 AATTGACC) similar to sequences found in promoters of other pathogen-responsive genes. The analysis also indicated that an enhancing sequence(s) between -397 and -296 is required for full PRms activation by elicitors. The protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine was found to completely block the transcriptional activation induced by elicitors. These data indicate that protein phosphorylation is involved in the signal transduction pathway leading to PRms expression.
When subjected to salt stress or drought, some vascular plants such as barley respond with an increased accumulation of the osmoprotectant glycine betaine (betaine), being the last step of betaine synthesis catalyzed by betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH). We report here cloning and characterization of BADH cDNA from barley, a monocot, and the expression pattern of a BADH transcript. An open reading frame of 1515 bp encoded a protein which showed high homology to BADH enzymes present in other plants (spinach and sugar-beet) and in Escherichia coli. Transgenic tobacco plants harboring the clone expressed high levels of both BADH protein and its enzymatic activity. Northern blot analyses indicated that BADH mRNA levels increased almost 8-fold and 2-fold, respectively, in leaves and roots of barley plants grown in high-salt conditions, and that these levels decreased upon release of the stress, whereas they did not decrease under continuous salt stress. BADH transcripts also accumulate in response to water stress or drought, indicating a common response of the plant to osmotic changes that affect its water status. The addition of abscisic acid (ABA) to plants during growth also increased the levels of BADH transcripts dramatically, although the response was delayed when compared to that found for salt-stressed plants. Removal of plant roots before transferring the plants to high-salt conditions reduced only slightly the accumulation of BADH transcripts in the leaves.
Changes in the tubulin-protein and -poly(A) +RNA contents were monitored by means of Western and Northern blot analyses, respectively, during growth and maturation of leaves of a dicotyledonous (tobacco) and monocotyledonous (barley) plant. It was recently argued from immunofluorescence and preliminary biochemical data that the density of microtubular networks and concomitantly the tubulin content are distinctly reduced after cessation of cell growth in leaves [Jung et al., 1993]. The results presented now confirm and extend this view. There appeared to be clear differences between the monocot and the dicot: (1) the loss of tubulin during leaf development was much slower in the dicot than in the monocot leaves (within months instead of days); (2) the degree of loss was more dramatic in the monocot leaf and only very low threshold levels of tubulin were retained in fully differentiated tissues; and (3) the loss of tubulin in the monocot leaf tissue appeared to be correlated with the decrease in the mRNA content, whereas the high level of tubulin-RNA in fully differentiated or even almost senescent dicot leaves indicated a gene expression control at the posttranscriptional level. The comparatively rapid and very distinct tubulin-protein and -RNA disappearance during development of the monocot leaf tissues confirm at the molecular level that differentiation proceeds much faster and is much more determinative in these leaves, as was postulated from histological and physiological data.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The protein encoded by cDNA clone pt59 and induced in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) by cold was over-expressed in coli to produce the matching antibody, which in vivo recognized a cold-induced protein of 14 kDa (COR14) that was found in the chloroplast stroma. The accumulation of COR14 occurred only at low temperatures after even a brief exposure of the plants to light. Plants grown and fully hardened in the dark accumulated a reduced amount of pt59-corresponding mRNA and only traces of COR14. Light exposure for as short as 5 min was enough to normalize the expression of pt59-corresponding mRNA and increase the accumulation of COR14. These findings indicate that one or more light-dependent factors are involved in transcription of the gene and accumulation of the protein. The COR14 protein was stored in amounts only slightly greater in the resistant barley cultivar. Onice than in the susceptible cultivar Gitane, although the former had a higher induction-temperature threshold for COR14 than the latter. This fact is an evolutionary advantage, enabling the resistant varieties in the field to prepare the cold well ahead of the susceptible ones.
The CM (chloroform-methanol-soluble) proteins are low-molecular-weight cysteine-rich proteins that are found in wheat and barley endosperms. A cDNA clone encoding a Triticum durum (T. durum) CM3 protein has been isolated from a mid-maturation seed cDNA library. The T. durum CM3 protein is synthesized as a precursor including a signal peptide (SP) of 25 residues. Northern blot analysis shows that in developing seed the highest level of CM3 protein mRNA is detected at mid-maturation. The hybridization patterns obtained by Southern blot analysis indicated that T. durum CM proteins are encoded by a small multigene family. The similarity between the wheat and barley CM proteins encoded by homologous chromosomes is much higher than that between each of the three members of the T. durum family. All CM proteins contain ten cysteine residues organized in a conserved cysteine motif.
Coproporphyrinogen III oxidase (coprogen oxidase; EC 1.3.3.3) is part of the pathway from 5-amino-levulinate to protoporphyrin IX which is common in all organisms and catalyses oxidative decarboxylation at two tetrapyrrole side chains. We cloned and sequenced full-length cDNAs encoding coprogen oxidase from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.). They code for precursor peptides of 43.6 kDa and 44.9 kDa, respectively. Import into pea plastids resulted in a processed tobacco protein of approx. 39 kDa, which accumulated in the stroma fraction. Induction of synthesis of recombinant putative tobacco mature coprogen oxidase consisting of 338 amino-acid residues in Escherichia coli at 20 degrees C result in a catalytically active protein of approx. 39 kDa, while induction of its formation at 37 degrees C immediately terminated bacterial growth, possibly due to toxic effects on the metabolic balance of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis. The plant coprogen oxidase gene was expressed to different extents in all tissues investigated. This is most likely due to the differing requirements for tetrapyrroles in different organs. The steady-state level of mRNA did not significantly differ in etiolated and greening barley leaves. The content of coprogen oxidase RNA reached its maximum in developing cells and decreased drastically when cells were completely differentiated. Functioning of the two photosystems apparatus requires the synthesis of all pigment and protein components during plant development. It is speculated that the enzymes involved in tetrapyrrole synthesis are developmentally rather than light-dependently regulated. Regulation of these enzymes also guarantees a constant flux of metabolic intermediates and avoids photodynamic damage by accumulating porphyrins.
A cDNA clone, pBH72-F1 (F1), was isolated from a cDNA library prepared from barley leaves 72 h after inoculation with Erysiphe graminis f.sp. hordei. The 1388 bp nucleotide sequence of pBH72-F1 contains an open reading frame encoding a 42.3 kDa polypeptide of 390 amino acids which shows sequence similarity to O-methyltransferases (OMTs) from different plant species; the highest identity (41%) was observed with a putative OMT expressed in roots of maize. A phylogenetic analysis shows that the barley and maize sequences are distinctly different from the ortho-diphenol-OMTs involved in lignin formation. A putative S-adenosyl-L-methionine-binding motif (KELVDDSITN) determined for a rabbit protein-carboxyl OMT is partially conserved in the encoded amino acid sequence. Genomic Southern blot hybridization shows that pBH72-F1 probably represents a single copy gene. The F1 clone corresponds to a gene transcript exhibiting a relatively late accumulation in mildew-infected barley leaves compared to other pathogen-induced transcripts, such as transcripts encoding PR proteins, a peroxidase, and transcripts homologous to a maize caffeic acid OMT. No transcript was detected in plants exhibiting papilla resistance at time points when resistance is thought to be manifested. The atypical transcript accumulation pattern for F1 was also observed after infection by other pathogens and after UV-light treatment.
This paper describes the aleurone-specific gene Ltp2 from barley, which encodes a putative 7 kDa non-specific lipid transfer protein. As shown by Northern and in situ hybridization analyses, the Ltp2 transcript is present in barley aleurone cells shortly after the initiation of aleurone cell differentiation. The expression of Ltp2 increases until grain mid-maturity, but the mRNA is absent from mature grains. The Ltp2 transcript is undetectable in the embryo and vegetative tissues, confirming the aleurone specificity of the Ltp2 gene. The ability of the isolated 801 bp Ltp2 promoter to direct aleurone-specific expression in immature barley grains is demonstrated by particle bombardment experiments. In these experiments, the activity of the Ltp2 promoter is 5% of the activity of the strong constitutive Actin1 promoter from rice, as quantified by GUS activity measurements. In stably transformed rice plants containing the Ltp2 promoter-Gus construct, the specificity of the Ltp2 promoter is confirmed in vivo by the presence of GUS activity exclusively in the aleurone layer. This study demonstrates the conserved nature of the regulatory signals involved in aleurone-specific gene transcription in cereal grains.
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylates and inactivates acetyl-CoA carboxylase and beta-hydroxy beta-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase which are the major enzymes involved in fatty acid and lipid biosyntheses. The AMPK gene from rat (rAMPK) has recently been cloned [Carling et al., J. Biol. Chem. 269 (1994) 11442-11448]. In order to study the structure and function of the human AMPK gene (hAMPK), we have cloned the gene, and report in this communication its nucleotide (nt) sequence, tissue distribution and chromosomal location. Our results show that the ORF of hAMPK encodes 552 amino acids (aa) (62.250 kDa) and is highly conserved with rAMPK with identities of 97.3 and 90% at the aa and nt levels, respectively. The hAMPK gene bears homology to a yeast protein kinase-encoding gene (snf1) that regulates carbohydrate metabolism, and also with three other genes encoding SNF1-like kinases from different plant species, namely Arabidopsis thaliana, Hordeum vulgare and Secale cereale. As determined by fluorescent in situ hybridization of a human metaphase chromosome spread, hAMPK maps to chromosome 1p31. The size of the hAMPK transcript is 8.5 kb and the transcription start point (tsp) is located approx. 46 bp upstream from the ATG codon. While 10-15% of AMPK is alternatively spliced in most tissues of the rat, our RT-PCR analyses of the hAMPK mRNA did not reveal the presence of any alternatively spliced form of the gene in human tissues. An interesting aspect of AMPK is that its expression, unlike in rat liver, could not be detected in human liver, and thus the purported role of the gene in controlling fatty-acid synthesis in the human liver remains to be determined.
Barley stripe mosaic virus contains seven genes, one of which specifies a 17-kD cysteine-rich protein, gamma b, that is known to affect virulence. To further characterize the role of gamma b in pathogenesis, we mutagenized sequences encoding amino acids within two clusters of cysteine and histidine residues in the cysteine-rich domain and a group of basic amino acids located between the clusters and determined the effects of these mutations on the symptom phenotype in barley. Three single amino acid substitutions in cluster 1 and two amino acid exchanges in the basic region caused bleached symptoms associated with pronounced elevations in accumulation of gamma b protein. In contrast, three single amino acid substitutions in cluster 2 and a mutation in the basic motif resulted in attenuated ("null") symptoms typical of those produced when the gamma b gene is deleted. Tissue infected with these "null" mutants accumulated slightly elevated amounts of the gamma b protein but significantly lower levels of coat protein and the putative movement protein beta b. Genetic complementation tests revealed that cluster 1 mutations are dominant over the wild-type gamma b gene, whereas those in cluster 2 are recessive. These results highlight the pivotal role of gamma b in pathogenesis and suggest that the two cysteine-rich clusters are functionally distinct and that they affect different aspects of disease development.
Gene expression in the aleurone and endosperm is highly regulated during both seed development and germination. Studies of alpha-amylase expression in the aleurone of barley (Hordeum vulgare) have generated the current paradigm for hormonal control of gene expression in germinating cereal grain. Gene expression studies in both the aleurone and endosperm tissues of maize (Zea mays) seed have been hampered because of a lack of an efficient transformation system. We report here the rapid isolation of protoplasts from maize aleurone and endosperm tissue, their transformation using polyethylene glycol or electroporation, and the regulation of gene expression in these cells. Adh1 promoter activity was reduced relative to the 35S promoter in aleurone and endosperm protoplasts compared to Black Mexican Sweet suspension cells in which it was nearly as strong as the 35S promoter. Intron-mediated stimulation of expression was substantially higher in transformed aleurone or endosperm protoplasts than in cell-suspension culture protoplasts, and the data suggest that the effect of an intron may be affected by cell type. To examine cytoplasmic regulation, the 5' and 3' untranslated regions from a barley alpha-amylase were fused to the firefly luciferase-coding region, and their effect on translation and mRNA stability was examined following the delivery of in vitro synthesized mRNA to aleurone and endosperm protoplasts. The alpha-amylase untranslated regions regulated translational efficiency in a tissue-specific manner, increasing translation in aleurone or endosperm protoplasts but not in maize or carrot cell-suspension protoplasts, in animal cells, or in in vitro translation lysates.
A full-length cDNA clone encoding the PSI-F subunit of barley photosystem I has been isolated and sequenced. The open reading frame encodes a precursor polypeptide with a deduced molecular mass of 24837 Da. The barley PSI-F precursor contains a bipartite presequence with characteristics similar to the presequences of proteins destined to the thylakoid lumen. In vitro import studies demonstrate that an in vitro synthesized precursor is transported across the chloroplast envelope and directed to the thylakoid membrane, where it accumulates in a protease-resistant form. Incubation of the precursor with a chloroplast stromal extract results in processing to a form intermediate in size between the precursor and mature forms. Hydrophobicity analysis of the barley PSI-F protein reveals a hydrophobic region predicted to be a membrane spanning alpha-helix. The hydrophobic nature of PSI-F combined with a bipartite presequence is unusual. We postulate that the second domain in the bipartite presequence of the PSI-F precursor proteins is required to ensure the proper orientation of PSI-F in the thylakoid membrane. The expression of the PsaF gene is light-induced similar to other barley photosystem I genes.
The 3' noncoding aminoacylatable regions of the three genomic RNAs of brome mosaic (BMV) and cucumber mosaic (CMV) viruses are highly conserved and exhibit extensive similarities in their primary and secondary structures. To investigate the functional significance of these conserved features, the 3' 186 nucleotide sequence of Fny-CMV RNA3 was incorporated into the 3' end of full-length genomic BMV RNA2 and RNA3 and their replicative competence and infectivity were examined in barley protoplasts and Chenopodium quinoa plants, respectively. In barley protoplasts, functional replicase provided by wild-type BMV RNAs 1 and 2 successfully interacted with the CMV 3' end when present on RNA3 and resulted in the proliferation and accumulation of chimeric progeny RNA3 and RNA4. In contrast, when CMV 3' end sequences were present on RNA2 no amplification of chimeric RNA occurred. Inoculation of chimeric RNAs to C. quinoa revealed that systemic infections were derived from the selection of higher fitness recombinant sequences over lower fitness chimeric RNAs.
Chitinases are expressed in various plant tissues where they are thought to play a role in defense against chitin-containing pathogens. Transient gene expression assays have been used in tissues of barley to delineate promoter sequences involved in the regulation of an aleurone-specific chitinase gene (Chi26), and of a vegetatively expressed chitinase gene (Chi33). The assays measured the activities of transcriptional fusions between chitinase 5' upstream sequences and GUS reporter genes after DNA delivery by particle bombardment. Analysis of Chi26 5' and 3' promoter deletions indicated that sequences between -200 and -140 confer developmental and aleurone-specific expression. Deletions/replacements covering this part of the promoter indicated that sequences between -179 and -147 (E-region) direct expression in aleurone cells. The ability of the 33bp E-region of the Chi26 promoter to activate transcription specifically in aleurone was confirmed by constructing and testing two types of chimeric promoters. The first type, which contained two copies of the E-region fused to the CaMV 35S TATA box, conferred aleurone-specific expression of a GUS reporter gene. The second type, which contained a single copy of the E-region inserted into a deleted, inactive Chi33 promoter derivative, was also capable of directing transcription in aleurone but not in leaves. The pattern of expression of this and other Chi26/Chi33 chimeric promoters suggest that the E-region contains cis-acting sequences which activate transcription in aleurone and silence transcription in leaves. DNA sequence motifs implicated in the regulation of Chi26 and Chi33 are described.
A single-copy barley gene, HVA1, encoding a class 3 late embryogenesis-abundant protein, can be induced by either treatment with abscisic acid (ABA) or by stress conditions such as drought, cold, heat and salinity. We have isolated an HVA1 genomic clone containing about 400 bp of 5'-upstream sequence, a single 109 bp intron, and the full coding sequence. Linker scan mutagenesis and transient expression studies were used to test the function of four HVA1 promoter elements conserved in ABA-responsive genes. Mutations in two of these elements, the C box and the putative ABRE 1 (ABA-responsive element) containing an ACGT core, resulted in no significant change in transcription level or ABA induction. In contrast, mutations of the other two elements, putative ABRE 2 & 3 cause the level of transcription to drop to 10-20% of that obtained with the wild-type promoter indicating that the high level of expression of HVA1 is dependent on both pABRE 2 & 3. Interestingly, despite their low level of expression, the mutated promoters still gave more than 20-fold induction in response to ABA treatment. We suggest that the ABA induction of barley HVA1 gene is governed by a complex consisting of pABRE 2 & 3 working together to regulate the absolute level of expression, and either of these elements or a possible third element may regulate ABA inducibility. Phylogenetic analysis by parsimony indicates that the barley HVA1 and wheat pMA2005 sequences share a recent common ancester. These two genes are closely related to the carrot Dc3 and cotton D-7 genes with which they share a similar structural gene organization.
A genomic (prb1) and two cDNA clones (PRb1-2 and PRb1-3) corresponding to two new barley basic PR-1 proteins (prb1-2 and prb1-3) were isolated from Hordeum vulgare. Genomic analysis of DNA suggests that the barley genome contains at least 6 members corresponding to the gene family encoding PR-1 proteins. Expression of these genes was induced in primary leaf tissues of the H. vulgare cv. Psaknon 4* (F14) Man. carrying Mlp resistance gene (cv. Mlp) and the near-isogenic susceptible cultivar (cv. mlp) after inoculation with Erysiphe graminis f. sp. hordei.
Open reading frames (ORFs), encoded by the plastid genomes of tobacco, liverwort, rice and maize were aligned with a view to studying the conservation of translational start and stop codons created by RNA editing of homologous genes. It became evident that most of the homologous ORFs have conserved translation start and stop signals at the gene level. However, some of the ORFs show differences with respect to extensions of their 3' and 5' terminal regions. For example, the proposed N-termini of the ndhD-encoded peptides from different plant species are very variable in length and amino-acid composition. Sequence analysis of ndhD and the corresponding cDNA shows that editing of an ACG triplet in tobacco, spinach and snapdragon leads to the creation of an AUG codon, corresponding to the start codon in other species. Conservation of translational start codons of plastome-encoded genes can, therefore, be achieved by editing of transcripts, and the definition of plastome-encoded ORFs must take potential editing events into consideration.
The hordein B1 gene of Hordeum vulgare L. (variety Donetskii 4) was cloned in cells of Escherichia coli and cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC6803. For cloning in E. coli, a 2.3-kb Hpa I/EcoR I DNA fragment carrying the hordein B1 gene was inserted into plasmid pBSM13(-), controlled by a lac promoter. The constructed recombinant plasmid pBSB1 provides hordein B1 gene expression in transformed E. coli cells. To introduce the hordein B1 gene into the genome of Synechocystis sp. PCC6803, an integrative vector, containing a fragment of cyanobacterium chromosomal DNA with inserted Tn5 antibiotic resistance genes (KmR, BleoR, StpR) was constructed. A Pvu II-fragment of pBSB1, containing hordein B1 gene under control of the lac promoter, was cloned in the Sma I-site of gene BleoR. The resulting recombinant plasmid was used to transform cyanobacterial cells. One KmR transformants contained a DNA fragment yielding a positive signal during Southern blotting with a [32P]-labeled DNA fragment carrying hordein B1 gene. Western blotting with polyclonal antibodies to barley hordein revealed hordein B1 gene expression in Synechocystis sp. PCC6803.
cDNA clones encoding three additional serine carboxypeptidases (Ser-CPs) have been isolated from a gibberellic acid-induced barley aleurone cDNA library. The three deduced Ser-CPs belong to the two-chain subfamily of Ser-CPs; they are synthesized as precursors with a putative signal peptide, propeptide, and linker peptide between the A and B chains. Their identification provides the proof for the existence of more than three Ser-CPs in cereal grains, and, based on their sequences, they may exhibit new substrate specificities. The expression of these and of the three previously isolated Ser-CPs from barley grains (CP-MI, CP-MII, and CP-MIII) has been investigated by Northern and Western analysis and RNA PCR. CP-MII is the only Ser-CP to be expressed and accumulate in the developing grain and is stored in its active form in the mature grain. All six Ser-CPs are expressed de novo in the germinating grain, in the scutellum, and/or in the aleurone. Furthermore, at least CP-MI, CP-MII, and CP-MIII are secreted into the endosperm. In addition, all Ser-CPs (except CP-MI) are also expressed in the roots and shoots of the growing seedling. This enzyme family thus appears to be ubiquitous in the barley plant, which suggests that Ser-CPs play additional roles besides their participation in the mobilization of storage proteins.
Early light-inducible protein (ELIP) mRNA and protein levels were analyzed during maturation and senescence of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) flag leaves under field conditions. The data clearly demonstrate that ELIP mRNA levels are related to the sunlight intensity before sample collection. Levels of mRNAs encoding both low and high molecular mass ELIPs fluctuate in parallel. Changes in mRNA levels are accompanied by corresponding changes in protein levels except for days when average temperatures are high. Comparison of flag leaves at different stages of development in spring and winter barley varieties suggests that light-stress-regulated ELIP gene expression is independent of the developmental stage of the leaves. Although chlorophyll content, photosystem II (PSII) efficiency, and 32-kD herbicide-binding protein of PSII levels decrease drastically after the onset of senescence, ELIP mRNA and protein still accumulate to high levels on bright days.
We have characterised the subgenomic RNAs of an Australian isolate of BYDV-PAV. Northern blot analyses of infected plants and protoplasts have shown that this isolate synthesizes three subgenomic RNAs. Precise mapping of the transcription start sites of all three subgenomic RNAs and translational analyses of subgenomic RNA 2 and 3 have revealed a number of features. First, the transcription start site of subgenomic RNA 1 in this isolate differs markedly from the start site determined for an Illinois isolate of BYDV-PAV. Second, the start sites of subgenomic RNA 1 and 2 occur at a sequence that closely resembles the 5' end sequence of the genomic RNA (5'AGUGAAGA). Third, subgenomic RNA 2 appears to express ORF 6 of BYDV-PAV but the gene product is truncated due to the appearance of a new stop codon in the sequence. Last, subgenomic RNA 3, which is abundantly transcribed and encapsidated by the virus particle, appears to have no coding ability. We postulate that this novel subgenomic RNA has a regulatory function.
The single open reading frame (ORF) 5 encoding the 50-kDa protein of barley yellow dwarf virus PAV-IL (BYDV-PAV-IL) was expressed in bacteria, purified, and used as an immunogen/antigen to produce/screen antibodies specific to the 50-kDa protein. Two monoclonal antibodies (MAb PAV-IL-22 kDa and MAb PAV-IL-50 kDa) raised against BYDV-PAV-IL could specifically detect the presence of the 72-kDa readthrough protein in extracts from the BYDV-infected leaf tissue. The results suggest that ORF 5 (50-kDa protein) is translated by readthrough of ORF 3 (22-kDa coat protein) to produce the 72-kDa protein. The readthrough protein is thought to be a structural protein on the external surface of BYDV.
Two cDNAs have been isolated from libraries generated from poly(A)+RNA of young barley roots and leaves, using a cDNA encoding barley (1-->3)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme GII as a probe. Nucleotide sequence analyses and ribonuclease protection assays show that the two cDNAs differ only in the length of their 3'-untranslated regions; the corresponding mRNAs are likely to originate from a single gene by tissue-specific processing at separate polyadenylation sites. When the coding region of the cDNA is expressed in E. coli, the resultant protein catalyses the hydrolysis of (1-->3)-beta-glucan with an action pattern characteristic of a (1-->3)-beta-glucan endohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.39). The enzyme has been designated isoenzyme GV of the barley (1-->3)-beta-glucanase family).
The barley chloroplast psbA gene encoding D1 protein, one of the main photosystem II components, has been over-expressed in E. coli cells. The existance of two in vivo expression products, a protein with M(r) about 33.5 kDa, corresponding to the full-length precursor of the 32 kDa D1 mature form, and a truncated 29 kDa polypeptide was revealed. A modified D1 protein containing six histidine residues at the carboxy-terminus was also obtained. After isolation and renaturation, the ability of the recombinant D1 protein to bind atrazine and pigments from barley thylakoids was demonstrated.
A lambda zapII cDNA library was constructed from mRNA isolated from Fe-deficient barley roots and screened with cDNA probes made from mRNA of Fe-deficient and Fe-sufficient (control) barley roots. Seven clones were selected. Among them a clone having the putative full-length mRNA of dioxygenase as judged by northern hybridization was selected and named Ids2 (iron deficiency-specific clone 2). Using a cDNA fragment as probe, two clones from the genomic library (lambda EMBL-III) were isolated and one was sequenced. The predicted amino acid sequence of Ids2 resembled that of 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase. Ids2 is expressed in the Fe-deficient barley roots but is not in the leaves. The expression is repressed by the availability of Fe. Ids2 was also strongly expressed under Mn deficiency and weakly under Zn deficiency or excess NaCl (0.5%). The upstream 5'-flanking region of Ids2 has a root-specific cis element of the CaMV 35S promoter and a nodule-specific element of leghemoglobin, a metal regulatory element (MRE) and several Cu regulatory elements (UAS) of yeast metallothionein (CUP1).
Chloroplast ribosome-binding sites were identified on the plastid rbcL and psbA mRNAs using toeprint analysis. The rbcL translation initiation domain is highly conserved and contains a prokaryotic Shine-Dalgarno (SD) sequence (GGAGG) located 4 to 12 nucleotides upstream of the initiator AUG. Toeprint analysis of rbcL mRNA associated with plastid polysomes revealed strong toeprint signals 15 nucleotides downstream from the AUG indicating ribosome binding at the translation initiation site. Escherichia coli 30S ribosomes generated similar toeprint signals when mixed with rbcL mRNA in the presence of initiator tRNA. These results indicate that plastid SD sequences are functional in chloroplast translation initiation. The psbA initiator region lacks a SD sequence within 12 nucleotides of the initiator AUG. However, toeprint analysis of soluble and membrane polysome-associated psbA mRNA revealed ribosomes bound to the initiator region. E. coli 30S ribosomes did not associate with the psbA translation initiation region. E. coli and chloroplast ribosomes bind to an upstream region which contains a conserved SD-like sequence. Therefore, translation initiation on psbA mRNA may involve the transient binding of chloroplast ribosomes to this upstream SD-like sequence followed by scanning to localize the initiator AUG. Illumination 8-day-old dark-grown barley seedlings caused an increase in polysome-associated psbA mRNA and the abundance of initiation complexes bound to psbA mRNA. These results demonstrate that light modulates D1 translation initiation in plastids of older dark-grown barley seedlings.
Two cDNA clones (CRH1 and CRH2) homologous to animal calreticulin, a major calcium storage protein in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, were isolated from an ovary cDNA library of barley through differential screening. The two clones differ in the 3' untranslated region and the 5' region that encodes a putative N-terminal signal sequence. CRH1 was mapped to the minus arm of chromosome 1. CRH2 was mapped to the minus arm of chromosome 2. The deduced amino acid sequences share 50 to 55% identity with animal calreticulins and exhibit the same three-zone characteristic. Recombinant protein stained blue with Stains-all and bound 45Ca2+ when transferred to nitrocellulose membranes. A native protein of approximately 55 kD was identified in ovary extract. Elevated gene expression was observed in ovaries 1 day after pollination and during early embryogenesis. CRH1 was expressed at a higher level than CRH2. These studies demonstrate the presence of calreticulin in plant cells and its developmental regulation in fertilization.
The nuclear gene mutant of barley, vir-115, shows a developmentally induced loss of D1 synthesis that results in inactivation of Photosystem II. Translation in plastids isolated from 1 h illuminated vir-115 seedlings is similar to wild type. In wild-type barley, illumination of plants for 16 to 72 h results in increased radiolabel incorporation into the D1 translation intermediates of 15-24 kDa. In contrast, these D1 translation intermediates were not observed in vir-115 plastids isolated from plants illuminated for 16-72 h. In addition, after 72 h of illumination, radiolabel incorporation into D1 was undetectable in vir-115 plastids. The level and distribution of psbA mRNA in membrane-associated polysomes was similar in wild-type and vir-115 mutant plastids isolated from plants illuminated for 16-72 h. Toeprint analysis showed similar levels of translation initiation complexes on psbA mRNA in vir-115 and wild-type plastids. These results indicate that translation initiation and elongation of D1 is not significantly altered in the mutant plastids. Ribosome pausing on psbA mRNA was observed in wild-type and vir-115 mutant plastids. Therefore, the absence of D1 translation intermediates in mutant plastids is not due to a lack of ribosome pausing on psbA mRNA. Based on these results, it is proposed that vir-115 lacks or contains a modified nuclear-encoded gene product which normally stabilizes the D1 translation intermediates. In wild-type plastids, ribosome pausing and stabilization of D1 translation intermediates is proposed to facilitate assembly of cofactors such as chlorophyll with D1 allowing continued D1 synthesis and accumulation in mature chloroplasts.
Previously characterized by us barley chloroplast psbA gene, which encodes one of the main Photosystem II components--D1 protein, has been inserted in a set of special plasmid vectors and its expression in vitro and in vivo has been investigated. Experiments on the in vitro expression in the rabbit reticulocyte lysate system revealed a major product with a molecular weight ca. 33.5 kD, which corresponds to the unprocessed D1 barley protein. A lower molecular weight protein (about 29 kD) was also observed. These results are in agreement with the existence of two potential translation start sites in the psbA gene in the same reading frame, the second one starting from Met37 residue. The results fully correlate with the earlier data on the in vitro expression of psbA genes of maize, pea, and tobacco. Experiments on the in vivo expression of psbA gene in E. coli cells with the above constructions also revealed proteins with m. w. about 33.5 and 29 kD. The yield of the target recombinant protein in some cases was about 25-30% of the total E. coli cellular protein. The correspondence of the bands to the desired products was proved by the immunoenzyme analysis with the use of polyclonal antibodies. The data obtained show for the first time the construction of E. coli strains producing recombinant D1 protein of cereals in a high level.
Previous work suggested that the aspartic proteinase from Hordeum vulgare (HvAP) would be a vacuolar protein in plant cells. Based on N-terminal sequencing we show that the in vitro-translated protein was translocated into the lumen of microsomal membranes, causing a concomitant removal of 25 amino acid residues from the protein. Vacuoles were purified from barley leaf protoplasts and were shown to contain all of the aspartic proteinase activity found in the protoplasts. This vacuolar localization of HvAP was confirmed with immunocytochemical electron microscopy using antibodies to HvAP in both barley leaf and root cells. In an attempt to discern a function for this protease, we investigated the ability of HvAP to process the C-terminal proregion of barley lectin (BL) in vitro. Prolectin (proBL), expressed in bacteria, was processed rapidly when HvAP was added. Using several means, we were able to determine that 13 amino acid residues at the C terminus of proBL were cleaved off, whereas the N terminus stayed intact during this incubation. Immunohistochemical electron microscopy showed that HvAP and BL are co-localized in the root cells of developing embryos and germinating seedlings. Thus, we propose that the vacuolar HvAP participates in processing the C terminus of BL.
A cDNA library was constructed from RNA of Vigna unguiculata root hairs harvested 1 day and 4 days after inoculation with Rhizobium sp. NGR234. A heterologous probe was used to identify a cDNA clone, the predicted 99-amino-acid sequence of which shares homology with a nonspecific lipid transfer protein (LTP) of Hordeum vulgare. Other characteristics, including an estimated molecular weight of 10.4 kD, an isoelectric point of 8.6, and a signal peptide with a hydrophobic region at the amino-terminal end, are shared by most LTPs. A transcript of 630 nt was found in all tissues tested, except nodules. Levels of mRNA increased in root hairs 24 hr after treatment with Rhizobium sp. NGR234, with different hormones, or with Nod factors. Amounts of transcripts were dependent on the concentration of Nod factors. Accumulation of transcripts during nodule development correlated with root hair deformation, the first visible step in the Rhizobium-legume symbiosis.
The response of protoplasts isolated from aleurone layers of barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Himalaya) to internally and externally applied hormone was analyzed to localize the site of perception of the hormonal signal. Protoplasts responded to externally applied gibberellic acid (GA3) with increased synthesis and secretion of [alpha]-amylase, transient expression of the glucuronidase reporter gene fused to the hormone-responsive elements of the [alpha]-amylase promoter, and the vacuolation typical of GA3-treated aleurone cells. When up to 250 [mu]M GA3 was microinjected into the protoplast cytoplasm, none of these responses were observed. This did not reflect damage to the protoplasts during the microinjection procedure, since microinjected protoplasts remained responsive to externally applied hormone. Nor did it reflect loss of microinjected GA3 from the protoplast, since 50% of microinjected [3H]GA20 was retained by protoplasts for at least 24 h. Externally applied abscisic acid (ABA) could reverse the stimulation of [alpha]-amylase synthesis and secretion, whereas microinjecting up to 250 [mu]M ABA was ineffective at antagonizing the stimulatory effect of GA3. These results suggest that the site of perception of GA3 and ABA in the barley aleurone protoplast is on the external face of the plasma membrane.
We studied the effects of spectral quality and fluence on the expression of several chloroplast-encoded photosynthesis genes and on the stability of their protein products in barley (Hordeum vulgare). During light-dependent chloroplast maturation, mRNA levels for psbD-psbC and psbA were maintained at higher levels compared with mRNAs encoding proteins for other photosynthesis functions (atpB, rbcL). Maintenance of psbD-psbC mRNA levels was accounted for by differential activation of the psbD-psbC light-responsive promoter by high-irradiance blue light and, secondarily, ultraviolet A (UV-A) radiation. Promoter activation was fluence dependent and required continuous illumination for 2 h at threshold fluences of 1.3 (blue light), 7.5 (white light), or 10 (UV-A) mumol m-2 s-1. From immunoblot analysis experiments, we showed that the psbD-psbC gene products D2 and CP43 undergo light-mediated turnover similar to light-labile D1. Other photosynthesis proteins such as the beta subunit of ATP synthase and the large subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase were relatively stable. In the absence of protein synthesis, D2 degradation paralleled the degradation of D1 (relative half-lives, 9.5-10 h). CP43 decay was about half of D2 and D1 decay. In contrast with activation of the light-responsive promoter, the fluence-dependent degradation of D1, D2, and CP43 required 50- to 100-fold higher fluences of photosynthetically active white, red, blue, or UV-A irradiation. We interpret the different fluence and wavelength requirements to indicate that separate photosensory systems regulate activation of psbD-psbC transcription and turnover of D1, D2, and CP43. We propose that a blue light/UV-A photosensory pathway activates the psbD-psbC light-responsive promoter, differentially maintaining the capacity of mature chloroplasts to synthesize D2 and CP43, which are damaged and turned over in illuminated plants.
This paper describes the genetic control of two new water-soluble proteins in barley. Water-soluble proteins (WSPs) of mature barley seed form part of the albumin/globulin class of seed proteins. They can be extracted from hand-milled grain with water, though some WSPs are more efficiently extracted with a solution of 10 mM dithiothreitol. Polymorphisms for WSPs were detected in isoelectric focusing gels incorporating various ampholine combinations. Two new controlling genes (Wsp4 and Wsp5) have been identified and located using wheat/barley chromosome addition lines and barley doubled haploids. Wsp4 is located on chromosome 2 (2H), and Wsp5 was found to be tightly linked to Wsp2 on the long arm of chromosome 7 (5HL). Segregation of a sixth gene (Wsp6) is also described, but this has not been mapped. The results are discussed with respect to other previously mapped Wsp loci.
Several low-temperature-responsive (LTR) genes from barley have been shown to have high steady-state transcript levels. Run-on transcription was used to determine the control of expression of these LTR genes. Six of these are shown to be transcriptionally regulated (blt 4/9, blt 101, blt 1015, blt 63, blt 49, blt 410) whilst three are post-transcriptionally regulated (blt 14, blt 411, blt 801). Two transcriptionally regulated genes (blt 4/9 and blt 101) and one post-transcriptionally regulated gene (blt 14) have been used in expression studies. The time course for the appearance and decay of these transcripts is given. Initial appearance and steady-state levels of individual transcripts have different temperature characteristics but no single gene correlates with the cold acclimation response. We suggest that these different response profiles may represent a means of fine-tuning the low-temperature response. One gene, blt 4/9, also accumulated high steady-state levels of transcript in response to drought and a nutrient stress. However, only drought has an acclimating effect on barley plants.
Legumes, and a very few non-legume plant species, are known to possess functioning haemoglobin genes. We describe here the characterization of a haemoglobin cDNA isolated from barley. The deduced amino acid sequence shows 71% amino acid identity with a non-legume haemoglobin gene, a further 16% of the residues being conservative replacements. The barley cDNA also hybridizes to genomic sequences in rye, maize and wheat. The demonstration of a gene from a monocotyledon with close sequence homology to the known non-legume plant haemoglobins fills a major gap in the known distribution of haemoglobin genes in the plant kingdom. The expression of the gene is induced in isolated barley aleurone layers exposed to anaerobic conditions, and the roots of flooding-stressed barley plants. The expression of the RNA under anoxic conditions is similar to that of a known anaerobic response gene, alcohol dehydrogenase. Our results suggest that the increased expression of haemoglobin RNA is an integral part of the normal anaerobic response in barley. The findings are discussed in the light of current theories of haemoglobin function and evolution.
Chlorophyll protein accumulation in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) chloroplasts is controlled posttranscriptionally by light-induced formation of chlorophyll a. The abundance of translation initiation complexes associated with psbA, psaA, and rbcL mRNAs was measured using extension and inhibition analysis in plants grown in the dark for 4.5 d and then illuminated for up to 16 h. Light-induced accumulation of the chlorophyll proteins was not accompanied by changes in the abundance of translation initiation complexes, indicating that regulation of chlorophyll protein accumulation at this stage of development does not occur at the level of translation initiation. Translational runoff assays were performed in the presence of lincomycin, an inhibitor of translation initiation, to determine whether chlorophyll protein accumulation was regulated at the level of translation elongation. The extent of ribosome runoff of psaA and psbA mRNAs was similar in the presence or absence of chlorophyll, indicating that chlorophyll did not alter chlorophyll protein translation elongation. Polysome-associated D1 translation intermediates were radiolabeled in the presence or absence of chlorophyll, even though full-length D1 accumulated only in the presence of chlorophyll. Chlorophyll influenced the stability of D1 translation intermediates to a small extent and greatly increased D1 stability after release from ribosomes. Overall, these results demonstrate that light-induced chlorophyll biosynthesis triggers the accumulation of the chlorophyll proteins D1 and P700 in barley chloroplasts by enhancement of chlorophyll apoprotein stability.
An intercistronic oligo(A) tract is present in the genomic RNA3 of all bromoviruses sequenced to date and, for brome mosaic virus (BMV), is known to function as an activating sequence in transcription of the subgenomic coat protein mRNA, RNA4. Mutations able to partially compensate for removal of the oligo(A) from BMV RNA3 were identified by obtaining spontaneous second-site revertants. The starting BMV RNA3 mutant carried a deletion of 17 of 18 residues of the intercistronic oligo(A), resulting in a nearly complete loss of subgenomic coat protein mRNA synthesis and reduced RNA3 accumulation. The responsible suppressor mutations acted in cis and were located in the 244-base RNA3 intercistronic region containing the original deletion. Three mutations associated with the revertant phenotype were characterized: (i) A single U-->A substitution in the core subgenomic mRNA promoter restored 35% of wild-type promoter activity. (ii) A duplication of 8 bases (UAUUAUUA) immediately 5' to the oligo(A) deletion site resulted in higher levels of both RNA3 and RNA4 accumulation. (iii) A point substitution in a conserved cellular motif corresponding to box B of RNA polymerase III promoters reduced RNA3 accumulation. Together with certain intervirally conserved promoter sequences, the spontaneous adaptation of a bromovirus subgenomic promoter to function without its unusual oligo(A) activator suggests that bromovirus subgenomic mRNA transcription may share underlying mechanistic similarities with the many other members of the alphavirus-like superfamily, whose subgenomic promoters all lack an oligo(A) tract.
A 1.75 kb cDNA containing the entire coding sequence of the hypoxically inducible alanine aminotransferase (AlaAT) from barley roots was isolated and sequenced. This clone has an open reading frame of 1446 bp, and a deduced amino acid sequence of 482 residues, giving an estimated protein molecular mass of 52,885 Da. RNA blot analysis of barley root tissue showed a 4-fold increase of a single AlaAT-2 mRNA band after 12-24 hours of hypoxic stress, followed by a decrease in message levels after 48 h of hypoxic conditions. AlaAT-2 protein concentration increased in a similar pattern to AlaAT activity in root tissue, to almost 6-fold the aerobic level after 96 h of hypoxic stress. AlaAT-2 activity increased more than 2-fold in roots of Panicum miliaceum exposed to hypoxia, and is the same isoform as the light inducible AlaAT in P. miliaceum leaves. The unique expression patterns of AlaAT-2 in root and leaf tissue upon exposure to different environmental stimuli is also discussed.
Transcription of ten nuclear genes was analysed in the albostrians mutant of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). The lack of plastid ribosomes in white seedlings of this mutant results in a complex alteration of nuclear gene expression at the transcriptional level. We found a strong reduction in the accumulation of mRNAs transcribed from nuclear genes encoding chloroplast enzymes involved in the Calvin cycle, the chlorophyll a/b binding protein, and the cytosolic enzyme nitrate reductase. In contrast, the levels of transcripts of the genes encoding the cytosolic glycolytic enzymes glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase and phosphoglycerate kinase were slightly enhanced. Accumulation of chalcone synthase mRNA even reaches much higher levels in white than in green leaves. Ribosome-deficient plastids were combined by crossing with a nuclear genotype heterozygous for the albostrians allele. Analysis of transcript levels in F1 plants having the same nuclear genotype and differing only with respect to their content of normally developed chloroplasts versus undifferentiated mutant plastids, provided strong genetic evidence for the plastid being the origin of a signal (chain) involved in regulation of nuclear gene expression. Results of run-on transcription in isolated nuclei demonstrated that the plastid signal acts at the level of transcription; it does not interfere with gene regulation in general. Mechanisms triggering nuclear gene expression in response to light operate in white mutant leaves: the very low levels of mRNAs derived from nuclear genes encoding chloroplast proteins and the strongly enhanced level of chalcone synthase mRNA were both light inducible. Also the negative regulation of leaf thionein gene expression by light is observed in white albostrians seedlings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The inhibitory effect of pure alpha and beta hordothionins on protein synthesis directed by pea mRNA has been studied in the wheat-germ translation system. It is demonstrated that a component of the wheat germ counteracts the thionin effect. Formation of polysomes in vitro in the presence of thionin was inhibited to the same extent as the total translation system while run-off translation of isolated polysomes from pea plants was not affected by thionin. These data are consistent with an effect of thionin on the initiation reaction. Analyses of the formation of initiation complexes in the presence and absence of mRNA support this view and show that thionin interferes with the formation of the 43S complex. In accordance with this observation and in contrast to earlier studies no evidence has been obtained for a direct interaction between mRNAs and thionins. The analysis of the translation products also gave no indication for preferential translation of individual mRNAs by the thionin-inhibited translation system. Compared to translation in vitro, exposure of barley protoplasts to thionins showed a less dramatic effect on protein synthesis as measured by incorporation of [35S]methionine into proteins. These data are discussed with respect to the effects of thionins on the plasma membranes as shown previously with animal cell cultures. It is concluded that at least in barley such effects would need higher concentrations of thionins than are required for the inhibition of protein synthesis.
Unlike most of the hydrolytic enzymes that participate in endosperm mobilization, beta-glucosidase of barley (Hordeum vulgare) seeds does not increase during germination, even in the presence of exogenously added gibberellic acid. However, the germination process affects the physical properties of beta-glucosidase in terms of charge and apparent molecular weight. Analysis of developing barley grains shows that the enzyme is synthesized two weeks before maturation and is stored in the endosperm of the dry dormant seed. Partial amino acid sequencing of the purified beta-glucosidase demonstrates significant similarity between the barley enzyme and beta-glycosidases that belong to family 1 of glycosyl hydrolases.
A rapid, efficient, and reproducible system to generate large numbers of independently transformed, self-fertile, transgenic barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) plants is described. Immature zygotic embryos, young callus, and microspore-derived embryos were bombarded with a plasmid containing bar and uidA either alone or in combination with another plasmid containing a barley yellow dwarf virus coat protein (BYDVcp) gene. A total of 91 independent bialaphos-resistant callus lines expressed functional phosphinothricin acetyltransferase, the product of bar. Integration of bar was confirmed by DNA hybridization in the 67 lines analyzed. Co-transformation frequencies of 84 and 85% were determined for the two linked genes (bar and uidA) and for two unlinked genes (bar and the BYDVcp gene), respectively. More than 500 green, fertile, transgenic plants were regenerated from 36 transformed callus lines on bialaphos-containing medium; albino plants only were regenerated from 41 lines. T0 plants in 25 lines (three plants per line) were analyzed by DNA hybridization, and all contained bar. Most contained the same integration patterns for the introduced genes (bar, uidA, and the BYDVcp gene) as their parental callus lines. Transmission of the genes to T1 progeny was confirmed in the five families analyzed by DNA hybridization. A germination test of immature T1 embryos on bialaphos-containing medium was useful for selecting individuals that were actively expressing bar, although this was not a good indicator of the presence or absence of bar. Expression of bar in some progeny plants was indicated by resistance to the herbicide Basta. The T1 plants were in soil approximately 7 months after bombardment of the immature embryo.
Hordothionins (HTHs) are small anti-bacterial proteins present in barley endosperm which are processed from larger precursor proteins, consisting of an amino-terminal signal peptide (SP), the mature highly basic HTH and a carboxy-terminal acidic peptide (AP). Different HTH precursor proteins were expressed in tobacco to study the effects of the pre-sequences (SP) and pro-sequences (AP) on expression, processing, sorting and biological activity and hence the feasibility of engineering bacterial disease resistance into crops which lack these proteins. Maximum HTH expression levels of approximately 0.7% (11 mumol/kg) of total soluble protein in young tobacco leaves were obtained using a semi-synthetic gene construct encoding a complete chimaeric HTH precursor protein. Tenfold lower HTH expression levels (maximum 1.3 mumol/kg) were obtained using synthetic gene constructs without the AP-coding sequence and no expression was found in plants containing synthetic HTH gene constructs without SP- and AP-coding sequences. In both cases where expression was found, the precursors were apparently correctly processed, although the HTH produced in plants containing a construct without AP sequence appeared to be slightly modified. No effect on plant phenotype was observed. Localization studies indicated that the HTH was in identical fractions of plants expressing the two different precursors, albeit at a different ratio, and was not secreted into the intercellular spaces of leaves or culture medium by protoplasts. Our results indicated that the AP is not involved in sorting and suggested that it might facilitate transport through membranes. The in vitro toxicity of HTH isolated from transgenic tobacco plants expressing the two different precursor proteins for the bacterial plant pathogen Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. michiganensis appeared similar to that of the HTH purified from barley endosperm.
Genes/cDNAs encoding so-called lipid-transfer proteins (LTPs) have been isolated from a variety of tissues from different plants, but the in-vivo function of the LTP proteins is not yet known. In barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), the LTP1 gene (encoding a probable amylase/protease inhibitor, Mundy and Rogers 1986, Planta 169, 51-63) is active in aleurone tissue, and in this paper two LTP-encoding cDNAs isolated from green leaves are described. The encoded proteins start with signal sequences, they are 75% homologous to each other, 60-63% homologous to rice aleurone LTP and maize seed/coleoptile LTP, but only 48% homologous to barley aleurone LTP. Northern hybridization experiments established that the two seedling-specific genes are both highly expressed in leaves and coleoptiles whereas the LTP1 gene is inactive in seedlings. No LTP gene expression was detected in roots using either seedling or aleurone cDNA clones as probes. Tissue-print hybridization indicates that the LTP genes are first expressed in young epidermal cells in leaves and coleoptiles, and subsequently expressed in the vascular strands. Genomic Southern analysis indicates that the barley LTP gene family has four to six members.
Two histone H4 cDNA clones were isolated from a tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) shoot-tip cDNA library using a heterologous probe from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Both cDNAs, which are 81% identical in the coding region, are polyadenylated and belong to a small gene family in the tomato genome. Histone H4 message is abundant in young tissues and rare in older tissues. In the shoot apical meristem, the distribution of H4-expressing cells changes during development. In a juvenile vegetative apex, H4 message is detectable in the central region and the peripheral parts of the meristem. In a mature vegetative apical meristem, H4-expressing cells are localized in the peripheral zone extending into the provascular strands and the rib meristem whereas the central zone is almost devoid of H4 mRNA. After floral transition, H4 mRNA is found throughout the floral meristem, indicating a second change in the pattern of H4 expression. The observed changes in H4 expression are indicative of changes in the distribution of mitotic activity in the shoot apical meristem during plant development. In addition, H4-expressing cells were found to occur frequently in clusters, which may indicate a partial synchronization of cell divisions in the shoot apex.
Clones for three barley non-specific lipid transfer proteins (LTP2, LTP3, and LTP4; formerly Cw18, Cw20 and Cw21, respectively) which had been previously shown to inhibit growth of plant pathogens, were selected and characterized from a cDNA library derived from young etiolated leaves. Genes Ltp2 and Ltp4 were located in chromosome 3H and gene Ltp3 was assigned to chromosome 7H by Southern blot analysis of wheat-barley disomic addition lines, using gene-specific probes (3'-ends of cDNAs). These assignments were confirmed by the polymerase chain reaction, using specific primers. The three genes were expressed in stem, shoot apex, leaves and roots (at low levels) throughout development. Genes Ltp3 and Ltp4 were expressed at high levels, and Lpt2 at low levels, in the spike (rachis, lemma plus palea and grain coats). Neither of the mRNAs was detected in endosperm. The proteins were localized by tissue-printing with polyclonal antibodies in the outer cell layer of the exposed surfaces of the plant, throughout the embryo, and in vascular tissues. Expression levels in leaves were moderately increased by 0.34 M NaCl and by 0.1 mM abscisic acid and were not affected by cold, drought, salicylate, 2,6-dichloro-isonicotinic acid, ethylene or ethephon. Methyl Jasmonate (10 microM) switched off all three genes. Inoculation with Av6 or vir6 isolates of the fungal pathogen Erysiphe graminis increased the three mRNAs, especially that of LTP4, which reached a maximum nine-fold increase 12-16 h after infection.
The positive-strand RNA bromoviruses encode two nonstructural proteins, 1a and 2a, involved in RNA-dependent RNA replication. These proteins have extensive sequence similarities with methyltransferase, helicase, and polymerase proteins of other plant and animal viruses. 1a and 2a can also form a complex in vitro. To explore whether 1a-2a interaction is required for RNA replication in vivo, we reassorted the 1a and 2a genes from two different bromoviruses, brome mosaic virus (BMV) and cowpea chlorotic mottle virus (CCMV). 1a and 2a were expressed independently of viral replication by using RNA- or DNA-based transient expression, and their in vivo RNA replication activities were tested in protoplasts with BMV and CCMV RNA3 templates. RNA-based transient expression confirmed prior indications that bromovirus RNA replication is more sensitive to reductions in 1a expression than to reductions in 2a expression. DNA-based expression of the homologous combinations of 1a and 2a supported high levels of RNA synthesis, but both 1a-2a heterologous combinations exhibited RNA synthesis defects. The combination of CCMV 1a and BMV 2a did not support detectable synthesis of negative-strand, positive-strand, or subgenomic RNA. The converse combination of BMV 1a and CCMV 2a was preferentially defective in positive-strand and subgenomic RNA accumulation, showing that 1a-2a interaction is involved in these processes in ways distinct from negative-strand RNA synthesis, which was only slightly affected. These results indicate that at least some functions of 1a and 2a operate in a mutually dependent manner in vivo and that the mechanisms of positive- and negative-strand RNA synthesis are differentiated in part by features of such interactions.
A full-length protochlorophyllide reductase clone (pWR5) has been isolated from a dark-grown wheat (Triticum aestivum) cDNA library generated in the phage vector lambda gt10. Comparison of the sequence of pWR5 with published sequences indicates a high degree of conservation of the structure of the mature protein amongst species but with the structure of the transit peptide less highly conserved. Within the cereals, the structure of the complete preprotein shows a remarkable degree of sequence homology (98% between barley and wheat). In vitro expression of pWR5 generates a preprotein of the expected molecular mass, approx. 41 kDa. Isolated pea chloroplasts can import, process and locate the mature reductase to the thylakoid membranes. From analysis of the CNBr-cleavage fragments of the N-[3H]phenylmaleimide-treated enzyme, the substrate-protected cysteine group in the enzyme is tentatively identified as Cys-296.
The phytohormone, abscisic acid (ABA), plays a variety of roles during seed development and in the plant's response to environmental stresses. To study the molecular action of ABA, we have isolated a single copy ABA-induced gene, HVA22, which is mapped to barley chromosome 1. The HVA22 gene can be induced by either ABA or the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, and addition of both inducers to barley aleurone layers has a synergistic effect on the expression of this gene. Sequence comparison indicates that the HVA22 gene product is highly homologous to the product of human DP1 gene, which is likely to contribute to colorectal tumorigenesis. The hormonal regulation of HVA22 expression has been studied, and there appear to be at least three elements, two located in the promoter and one in the first intron, which are essential for the high level of ABA induction of HVA22 expression. Among the promoter elements is a homolog of ABA response element, which has been shown to be important in the expression of other ABA-induced genes in plants. We suggest that the barley HVA22 gene product is likely a regulatory protein, and the ABA induction of this gene requires the action of a complex set of hormone response elements.
A cDNA clone of the previously unreported low-temperature-induced gene blt101 was isolated after a differential screen of a cDNA library prepared from low-temperature (6 degrees C day/2 degrees C night) grown barley shoot meristems. Southern blot analysis of barley ditelosomic addition lines was used to assign this single-copy gene to the long arm of chromosome 4. Analysis of steady-state levels of blt101 mRNA showed the induction of this transcript in shoot meristems upon transfer of barley (cv. Igri) plants from control (20 degrees C/15 degrees C) to low (6 degrees C/2 degrees C) temperature treatment. Further, the high level of this transcript is maintained at low temperatures but is reduced on transfer from low to control temperatures. The gene is not induced by drought or by foliar application of ABA. Analysis of segregating doubled haploid lines shows that there is no specific association of this gene with either spring/winter growth habit or frost hardiness. Examination of the spatial expression pattern revealed ubiquitous expression of blt101 in low-temperature (6 degrees C/2 degrees C) grown barley shoot meristems, mature leaves and roots.
Transcriptional and translational fusions were made between the reading frame coding for beta-D-glucuronidase and sequences of either a constitutively expressed rice gene (GOS2) involved in initiation of translation or a light-inducible rice gene (GOS5). The transient expression of the fusions was studied via particle bombardment of seedling tissues of rice, perennial ryegrass and barley. Furthermore, the results of transient and stable expression were compared for cell suspensions of four rice varieties, one barley variety and one perennial ryegrass variety. The GOS2-gusA fusions were active in all three monocots studied. Best results were obtained for a construct having both a transcriptional and a translational fusion as well as intron and exon sequences (PORCEHyg). The level of GUS activity was in the range of activities as obtained by the 35S CaMV promoter transcriptionally fused to gusA. The gusA fusion with the light-inducible gene (GOS5) was active in green seedling tissues of all monocots studied. Also a weak expression compared to the GOS2 constructs was found in stably transformed rice callus. The gusA fusions with the mannopine synthase promoters 1' and 2' of the TR-DNA were transiently expressed at lower levels in cell suspensions than PORCEHyg. For stably transformed rice callus the expression of the GOS2-gusA fusion often decreased during prolonged subculture. This decrease in GUS activity and the various GUS-staining phenotypes of transgenic calli are explained by the presence of different cell types in the suspensions used and in the calli. It is presumed that the nature of the cells and their relative contribution in the calli change drastically upon further subculture.
Sequence analysis of amplified cDNAs derived from the maize chloroplast rpoB transcript which encodes the beta subunit of a chloroplast specific, DNA dependent RNA polymerase reveals four C-to-U editing sites clustered within 150 nucleotides of the 5' terminal region of the rpoB message. These newly identified editing sites confirm the bias of chloroplast editing for certain codon transitions and for second codon positions which both appear suggestive for an involvement of the translational apparatus in the editing process. This supposition prompted us to investigate editing of the rpoB transcript from ribosome deficient, and hence protein synthesis deficient, plastids of the barley mutant albostrians. In this mutant editing is, however, not impaired at any of the editing sites functional in the barley wild type rpoB transcript. This demonstrates that chloroplast editing is neither linked to nor dependent on the chloroplast translational apparatus. As a further consequence any peptide components required for chloroplast editing must be encoded in the nuclear genome. In spite of strong sequence conservation only three of the four editing sites identified in the maize rpoB transcript are functional in barley. This indicates that sequences surrounding an editing site alone are not sufficient as determinants for the editing process in chloroplasts, but that trans-acting templates carrying the editing information for each individual site may also be required.
Three cDNA clones from barley developing endosperm, corresponding to proteins BTAI-CMa, BTAI-CMb and BTAI-CMd, which are the three types of subunits of the tetrameric inhibitor of insect alpha-amylases, have been identified and sequenced. The deduced amino acid sequence of BTAI-CMb corresponds to the CM16/CM17 type of subunit in wheat (92/90% identical residues) and has one putative N-glycosylation site (NLT) and a possible kinase-C phosphorylation site (SCR). The BTAI-CMa sequence differs at four amino acid residues from a previously reported one from cv. Bomi and the sequence deduced for BTAI-CMd completes (11 N-terminal residues) and confirms previously available data. The gene for BTAI-CMa (Iat1) is located in the beta arm of barley chromosome 7H (syn.1), while genes for both BTAI-CMb (Iat2) and BTAI-CMd (Iat3) are in the long arm of chromosome 4H. The three genes are expressed in endosperm and their mRNAs are not detected in the other tissues tested, except Iat1, which seems to be expressed at a low level in coleoptile and roots, where it is switched off by 50 microM methyl jasmonate.
Plastocyanin is a nuclear-encoded chloroplast protein participating in electron transport during photosynthesis. The plastocyanin gene is expressed in photosynthetic tissue in a developmentally regulated manner and the expression is stimulated by light. A genomic clone encoding the plastocyanin precursor was isolated from a barley (Hordeum vulgare) lambda library using a barley cDNA clone as a probe and the sequence of a 1.9-kb DNA fragment containing the plastocyanin gene was determined. TATA and CCAAT boxes are located 34-bp and 68-bp, respectively, upstream of the transcription start site, the 5'-untranslated leader is 78 nucleotides long, and the intronless gene has at least two different polyadenylation sites. DNA sites in the plastocyanin gene that mediate binding of barley nuclear proteins were mapped by mobility-shift assays with fragments of the promoter/upstream region. Two of the three specific binding sites characterised in more detail were found to form complexes with the same factor in cross-competition experiments. One of these sites, narrowed down to a 17-bp sequence at position -512, contains the consensus binding site for Myb-like transcription factors. The third specific binding site, located at position -622, contains the sequence CACGTG which is a high-affinity-binding site for transcription factors of the basic-region leucine-zipper family.
A barley cDNA clone (PRb-1) corresponding to an mRNA differentially induced in resistant compared to susceptible barley cultivars by powdery mildew infection was isolated and characterised. The deduced amino acid sequence revealed 24 amino acids comprising the signal peptide and 140 amino acids of the mature peptide (15 kDa). This showed close homology to PR-1-like proteins, which have been isolated from maize, tobacco, tomato and Arabidopsis thaliana. Northern blot analysis showed accumulation of the corresponding mRNA 12 h after inoculation of resistant barley cultivars with Erysiphe graminis. Increased expression of the PRb-1 gene was also observed in resistant compared with near-isogenic susceptible barley plants following treatment with ethylene, salicylic acid, methyl jasmonate and 2,6-dichloro-isonicotinic acid.
Barley heat shock proteins have been cloned, characterized by hybrid release translation and sequenced. Clones coding for proteins of 17, 18, 30, 32 and 70 kDa have been obtained. Out of these the 32 and 30 kDa proteins have been characterized as precursors to plastidic proteins of 26 kDa by posttranslational transport and by cDNA sequencing. The coding regions of these two transcribed genes are highly homologous. Accumulation of the plastid HSP as well as of HSP 70 as well as their corresponding mRNAs has been studied in 2- to 6-day old seedlings and in the 7-day old barley leaf. The mRNA for all investigated proteins were only found after a heat shock; the mRNA levels increase towards the tip of the leaf and with development. Furthermore, under the conditions used the mRNAs for all investigated heat shock proteins accumulate in parallel. Unexpectedly, both proteins, HSP 70 and HSP 26, are found by western blotting in the 2-day old control plants in the absence of any inducing heat shock. At later stages of development and in the leaf gradient only immunoreactivity with HSP 70 was observed. In contrast to the levels of their mRNAs the highest levels of HSP 30-26 and 70 have been observed in the basal segments indicating that translational control plays a role during HSP expression. Under severe heat shock a protein of 30 kDa is induced whose identity is not known but which reacts with the antibody to HSP 30-26 and might represent the accumulating precursors of the plastidic proteins.
Transcriptional and translational fusions were made between the reading frame coding for beta-D-glucuronidase and sequences of either a constitutively expressed rice gene (GOS2) involved in initiation of translation or a light-inducible rice gene (GOS5). The transient expression of the fusions was studied via particle bombardment of seedling tissues of rice, perennial ryegrass and barley. Furthermore, the results of transient and stable expression were compared for cell suspensions of four rice varieties, one barley variety and one perennial ryegrass variety. The GOS2-gusA fusions were active in all three monocots studied. Best results were obtained for a construct having both a transcriptional and a translational fusion as well as intron and exon sequences (PORCEHyg). The level of GUS activity was in the range of activities as obtained by the 35S CaMV promoter transcriptionally fused to gusA. The gusA fusion with the light-inducible gene (GOS5) was active in green seedling tissues of all monocots studied. Also a weak expression compared to the GOS2 constructs was found in stably transformed rice callus. The gusA fusions with the mannopine synthase promoters 1' and 2' of the TR-DNA were transiently expressed at lower levels in cell suspensions than PORCEHyg. For stably transformed rice callus the expression of the GOS2-gusA fusion often decreased during prolonged subculture. This decrease in GUS activity and the various GUS-staining phenotypes of transgenic calli are explained by the presence of different cell types in the suspensions used and in the calli. It is presumed that the nature of the cells and their relative contribution in the calli change drastically upon further subculture.
The molecular basis for the absence of anthocyanins and proanthocyanidins in four independent sodium azide-induced ant18 mutants of barley was examined by sequencing the gene encoding dihydroflavonol 4-reductase in these mutants. Sodium azide generated 21 base substitutions, which corresponds to 0.17% of the 12,704 nucleotides sequenced. Of the substitutions, 86% were nucleotide transitions, and 14% were transversions. A.T-->G.C base pair transitions were about 3 times more frequent than G.C-->A.T transitions. No deletions or mutation hot spots were found. The absence of dihydroflavonol 4-reductase activity in ant18-159, ant18-162, and ant18-164 plants is caused by missense mutations in the respective genes. By using microprojectile bombardment, a plasmid harboring the wild-type Ant18 gene was introduced into ant18-161 mutant cells and resulted in the development of anthocyanin pigmentation, which demonstrates that the mutation is corrected by expression of the introduced gene. On the other hand, a plasmid derivative with the two ant18-161-specific base transitions at the 5' splice site of intron 3 prevented complementation. It is concluded that the absence of detectable mRNA for dihydroflavonol 4-reductase in ant18-161 cells is due to the mutations in the pre-mRNA splice donor site.
The structures of the three Myb-related genes Hv1, Hv5 and Hv33 from barley were determined. They contain a single intron located in the second repeat unit of the Myb-related domain. By analogy to the animal MYB oncoproteins this conserved region of the gene product was shown by filter-binding experiments to exhibit nucleic acid-binding activity. Tobacco plants transgenic for chimeric Myb promoter/Gus genes express the enzyme in a developmentally controlled and tissue-specific manner. During germination and early stages of plant growth, GUS activity is seen in the root cap and adjacent meristematic tissue. At later stages of plant development, GUS activity is predominantly observed in the shoot apical meristem, the roots and the nodal regions of the stem. Within the stem at stages of secondary growth, Myb promoters are active in defined cell types. In the internode low GUS activity is displayed by the innermost cell layer of the cortex, the starch sheath, that surrounds the vascular cylinder of secondary xylem and phloem tissue, as well as in pith rays originating from vascular cambium initials. In the nodal region Myb promoter-controlled Gus expression is mainly confined to the abaxial starch sheath of the leaf trace, to the branch traces and to internal strands of primary phloem. It is suggested that in addition to their activity in meristematically active plant tissues Myb genes are expressed in conductive tissues that are closely associated with vascular bundles.
Germinating barley produces two alpha-amylase isozymes, AMY1 and AMY2, having 80% amino acid (aa) sequence identity and differing with respect to a number of functional properties. Recombinant AMY1 (re-AMY1) and AMY2 (re-AMY2) are produced in yeast, but whereas all re-AMY1 is secreted, re-AMY2 accumulates within the cell and only traces are secreted. Expression of AMY1::AMY2 hybrid cDNAs may provide a means of understanding the difference in secretion efficiency between the two isozymes. Here, the efficient homologous recombination system of the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, was used to generate hybrids of barley AMY with the N-terminal portion derived from AMY1, including the signal peptide (SP), and the C-terminal portion from AMY2. Hybrid cDNAs were thus generated that encode either the SP alone, or the SP followed by the N-terminal 21, 26, 53, 67 or 90 aa from AMY1 and the complementary C-terminal sequences from AMY2. Larger amounts of re-AMY are secreted by hybrids containing, in addition to the SP, 53 or more aa of AMY1. In contrast, only traces of re-AMY are secreted for hybrids having 26 or fewer aa of AMY1. In this case, re-AMY hybrid accumulates intracellularly. Transformants secreting hybrid enzymes also accumulated some re-AMY within the cell. The AMY1 SP, therefore, does not ensure re-AMY2 secretion and a certain portion of the N-terminal sequence of AMY1 is required for secretion of a re-AMY1::AMY2 hybrid.
Polyclonal antisera raised against proteins or peptides corresponding to barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) open reading frames were used in immunoblot experiments to investigate the in vivo expression of BSMV-encoded proteins during infection of barley. Six of the seven putative gene products, whose functional roles have been defined in previous genetic studies, were detected at one or more stages of infection in barley tissue sampled at 4, 7, 10, and 14 days postinoculation (DPI). The alpha a, beta a, beta b, beta d, gamma a, and gamma b gene products were observed during the course of infection, but a protein corresponding to the beta c gene could not be identified. The 130-kDa alpha a and the 74-kDa gamma a proteins, which comprise the essential BSMV-encoded replicase components, differed in the time course of their expression and in their subcellular distribution. The highest concentration of the alpha a protein coincided with the appearance of leaf symptoms at 4 DPI and declined gradually as infection progressed. The alpha a protein was found primarily in the soluble protein fraction but some of the protein was also found in the membrane and cell wall fractions. In contrast, the gamma a protein peaked in concentration later at 7 to 10 DPI and was more abundant in membranous fractions. The cysteine-rich 17-kDa gamma b protein was located predominantly in the soluble fraction and its concentration remained relatively constant during the course of infection. The 25-kDa capsid protein (beta a) was present in the highest amounts in the soluble fraction at 4 DPI and it continued to increase in abundance throughout the sampling period. The transiently expressed 58-kDa beta b protein, which like beta c and beta d is required for systemic infection, was most abundant at the onset of symptoms, but declined precipitously in concentration as the infection progressed. Although larger amounts of beta b were present in the soluble fraction, the cell wall fraction contained a substantial portion estimated to be 30 to 40% of the protein. Affinity-purified antisera raised against a peptide corresponding to the hydrophobic 14-kDa beta d ORF revealed the presence of a BSMV-specific protein of the predicted size in membrane and cell-wall fractions. Like the beta b protein, the level of the beta d protein decreased dramatically as infection progressed, suggesting that the synthesis of these two proteins is coordinately expressed from the RNA beta subgenomic RNA.
The 431 bp C-hordein promoter of lambda-1-17 exhibits a specific response to amino acids and NH4NO3 in developing barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) endosperms. With the aid of particle bombardment it is shown that the GCN4 motif ATGA(C/G)TCAT is the dominating cis-acting element in this response. But synergistic interaction with the neighbouring endosperm motif TGTAAAGT within the bifactorial prolamin element and cooperation with upstream sequences including a second prolamin-like element is an absolute requirement for a strong, positive regulation by an optimal nitrogen regime. Low nitrogen levels convert the GCN4 box into a negative motif. In contrast the endosperm box on its own exerted a silencing activity, independent of nitrogen nutrition. Sequence comparisons revealed that GCN4- and endosperm-like motifs are widely distributed among plant promoters. Their putative role in nitrogen regulation is discussed.
The cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (35S) and the enhanced 35S (E35S) promoters fused with maize alcohol dehydrogenase (Adh1) intron1 or maize shrunken locus (sh1) intronl along with maize Adh1 and rice actin (Act1) promoters fused to their respective first introns were tested for transient expression of the E.coli β-glucuronidase (gus) reporter gene in cultured barley (Hordeum vulgare L) cells. The plasmids, carrying the respective promoterintron combinations to drive the gus fused to nopaline synthase (nos) terminator, were introduced into cultured barley cells using a particle gun. The rice Act1 promoter with its first intron gave the highest expression of all promoter intron combinations studied. This was followed by the E35S promoter and no significant differences were observed between the other two promoters tested. The rice actin promoter is now being used to drive selectable marker genes to obtain stably transformed cereal cells.
Extracts of soybean (Glycine max) root nodules and greening etiolated leaves catalyzed radiolabeled delta-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) formation from 3,4-[3H]glutamate but not from 1-[14C]glutamate. Nevertheless, those tissue extracts expressed the activity of glutamate 1-semialdehyde (GSA) aminotransferase, the C5 pathway enzyme that catalyzes ALA synthesis from GSA for tetrapyrrole formation. A soybean nodule cDNA clone that conferred ALA prototrophy, GSA aminotransferase activity, and glutamate-dependent ALA formation activity on an Escherichia coli GSA aminotransferase mutant was isolated. The deduced product of the nodule cDNA shared 79% identity with the GSA aminotransferase expressed in barley leaves, providing, along with the complementation data, strong evidence that the cDNA encodes GSA aminotransferase. GSA aminotransferase mRNA and enzyme activity were expressed in nodules but not in uninfected roots, indicating that the Gsa gene is induced in the symbiotic tissue. The Gsa gene was strongly expressed in leaves of etiolated plantlets independently of light treatment and, to a much lesser extent, in leaves of mature plants. We conclude that GSA aminotransferase, and possibly the C5 pathway, is expressed in a nonphotosynthetic plant organ for nodule heme synthesis and that Gsa is a regulated gene in soybean.
Treatment of six-day-old barley leaves with white light of high intensity, 250-2000 W/m2, leads to a linear increase in the steady-state concentrations of early light-inducible protein (ELIP) mRNA followed by an accumulation of the protein. Accumulation of ELIP mRNA, under light stress, is highest in the basal third of the leaf and declines to approximately 50% of this level in the apical segment. The amount of the accumulated protein decreases more steeply towards the tip than would be expected from mRNA levels. This finding, as well as the fact that during greening a massive accumulation of the protein starts only at a time when the steady-state concentrations of ELIP mRNA have declined to 10% of the maximal value, indicate post-transcriptional control. Accumulation is presumably achieved by stabilization of the protein. ELIP mRNA and protein levels, induced by a 2-h period of high-light stress, are lowest in the afternoon and highest at midnight and during the morning. The inducibility of ELIP by high light is therefore under diurnal control. An increase of light stress, due to application of the carotenoid-biosynthesis inhibitor norfluorazon, results in a considerable induction of ELIP mRNA and protein. The plant hormone abscisic acid exerts only a small effect on the mRNA level. In all cases studied, the light-induced increase in the amount of ELIP mRNA was accompanied by a corresponding decline in the mRNA levels for the apoprotein of the chlorophyll-a/b-binding protein. Steady-state concentrations of mRNA for the small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase were hardly affected under all investigated light intensities.
The turnover of RNAs encoded by seven different barley chloroplast genes was analyzed after treatment of barley shoots with tagetitoxin, a selective inhibitor of chloroplast transcription. Changes in RNA stability were examined during chloroplast development using basal and apical leaf sections of 4.5-day-old dark-grown seedlings and apical leaf sections of 4.0-day-old dark-grown seedlings which had been illuminated for 12 h. Of the RNAs examined, a 2.6 kb unspliced precursor of tRNA(lys) exhibited the shortest half-life, which was estimated to be 3 h. The 16S rRNA and psbA mRNA had the longest estimated half-lives, which were greater than 40 h. Among mRNAs, half-lives were estimated to range from 6 h for psaA mRNA, to over 40 h for psbA mRNA. Therefore, barley chloroplast mRNAs have long half-lives relative to bacterial mRNAs. The stability of atpB mRNA and the unspliced precursor of tRNA-lys was not altered during chloroplast development, while the stability of psaA mRNA decreased 2-fold. In contrast, the stability of the 16S rRNA and mRNAs for rpoA, psbA and rbcL increased during chloroplast development. The stability of 16S rRNA increased markedly during chloroplast development in the dark and this increase was maintained in illuminated seedlings. The stability of rbcL mRNA increased 2.5-fold during chloroplast development in the dark, and then decreased 2-fold in chloroplasts of light-grown plants. The initial increase in rpoA and psbA mRNA stability was also light-independent, with total increases in stability of at least 5-fold. In the case of rpoA, the stability of 2 of the 13 polycistronic rpoA transcripts that were detected in dark-grown plants was selectively increased during chloroplast development. In conclusion, the stability of some transcripts is selectively increased and further modulated during chloroplast development in barley. We propose that the selective stabilization of chloroplast mRNA, which occurred independent of light, is an indication that non-light regulated developmental signals are involved in barley chloroplast mRNA stability.
A novel RNA fingerprint method has been developed based on the polymerase chain reaction to identify individual mRNA species derived from different members of a complex multigene family of very low transcript abundance. Using this method, changes in the composition of complex thionin mRNA populations and in the appearance of individual thionin mRNA species in different organs and in response to external stimuli were detected in Hordeum murinum. A single nucleotide exchange within the transcribed DNA may be sufficient to allow the distinction between otherwise identical transcripts.
Sequences upstream of the 3'-terminal tRNA-like structure of brome mosaic virus RNAs have been predicted to fold into several stem-loop and pseudoknot structures. To elucidate the functional role of this upstream region, a series of deletions was made in cDNA clones of RNA-3, a genomic component not required for replication. These deletion mutants were transcribed in vitro and cotransfected with RNA-1 and RNA-2 into barley protoplasts. Deletion of single stem-loop structures gave progeny retaining near-wild-type accumulation levels. Constructions representing deletion of two or three stem-loops substantially lowered the accumulation of progeny RNA-3 relative to wild-type levels. RNA-3 mutants bearing deletions of longer sequences or of the entire region (delta PsKs RNA-3) replicated poorly, yielding no detectable RNA-3 or RNA-4 progeny. Levels of RNA-1 and RNA-2, in the presence of a mutant RNA-3, were found to increase relative to the accumulation observed in a complete wild-type transfection. The stability of delta PsKs RNA-3 in protoplasts was somewhat lower than that of wild-type RNA during the first 3 h postinoculation. Little difference in translatability in vitro of wild-type and RNA-3 constructs bearing deletions within the stem-loop region was observed, and Western immunoblot analysis of viral coat protein produced in transfected protoplasts showed that protein accumulation paralleled the amount of RNA-4 message produced from the various sequences evaluated. These results indicate that the RNA-3 pseudoknot region plays a minor role in translational control but contributes substantially to the overall replication of the brome mosaic virus genome.
The naturally occurring plant growth regulator (-)-jasmonic acid methyl ester (JaMe) induces the formation of novel abundant proteins in excised barley leaf segments. Concomitantly, this substance depresses the translation of most preexisting ("control") leaf mRNAs, including those for nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins such as the small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (SSU, rbcS gene product) and several light harvesting chlorophyll protein complex apoproteins (LHCPs, cab gene products). The changes in protein synthesis observed for SSU and LHCPs did not correspond to equivalent alterations in the rbcS and cab transcript levels. Analysis of polysome-associated in vitro translatable and hybridizable mRNAs, however, demonstrated a restriction of rbcS and cab transcripts to smaller polysomes in JaMe-exposed leaf tissues, in comparison to water-treated tissues. Since treatment of JaMe-incubated leaf segments with cycloheximide prior to harvest led to a shift of both transcripts toward larger polysomes, a hormone-induced impairment of chain initiation is assumed to lower translation of SSU and LHCP in situ. In contrast, the mRNA for plastid leucyl-tRNA synthetase (LRS1, lrs1 gene product) neither changed its abundance nor its association with polysomes in JaMe-treated leaves and was translated into the corresponding polypeptide. Together, our results highlight a remarkable variability of nuclear gene expression in response to plant growth regulators of the methyl jasmonate type.
A method was developed to detect [alpha]-amylase gene expression and [alpha]-amylase secretion from individual barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Himalaya) aleurone protoplasts. Protoplasts are incubated in liquid media with or without hormones and embedded in a thin film of agarose and starch, where they remain viable for up to 24 h. [alpha]-Amylase secreted by individual protoplasts digests the starch, and starch hydrolysis is visualized after 45 min by staining the preparation with I2KI. After I2KI staining, secreting protoplasts are surrounded by a clear, starch-free halo visible by light microscopy. The formation of starch-free halos is dependent on the synthesis and secretion of [alpha]-amylase and is not caused by carry-over of preformed enzyme from incubation media. Treating protoplasts with inhibitors of protein synthesis or exposing them to anaerobic conditions for 2 h before embedding them in agarose prevents the formation of halos. When [alpha]-amylase secretion is observed by counting the percentage of secreting protoplasts, the data are comparable to that obtained by measuring [alpha]-amylase secretion from a population of cells. The response of individual protoplasts to gibberellic acid (GA3) and abscisic acid measured by the thin-film method is almost identical to the response of populations of protoplasts to these hormones, validating the utility of this method. Although not generally practical for quantifying secretion, the thin-film method is uniquely useful in distinguishing secreting from nonsecreting protoplasts. In none of our experiments did more than 60% of the protoplasts secrete [alpha]-amylase when exposed to GA3, even though more than 95% of the protoplasts in the preparations were viable. Similar results were obtained when the response to GA3 was assayed at the level of gene transcription by visualizing the transient expression of a plasmid containing the promoter from [alpha]-amylase fused to the reporter gene glucuronidase in single protoplasts. The thin-film secretion assay also revealed that the response of a population of protoplasts to GA3 was not uniform with time. The effect of GA3 treatment was to gradually increase the percentage of responding protoplasts up to a maximum of 50 to 60%. Abscisic acid, which inhibits [alpha]-amylase secretion by GA3-treated protoplasts, reduced the proportion of protoplasts that secrete the enzyme.
We report identification of a 2189 bp cDNA clone from barley corresponding to a single-copy gene, Beg1 (Barley embryo globulin), on chromosome 4, which encodes a storage globulin. In barley, the major protein reserve in the aleurone layer belongs to the 7S globulin class of proteins found in many seeds. Electrophoretically and antigenically similar proteins are present in the barley embryo. Accumulation of Beg1 mRNA was noted beginning 15-20 days post-anthesis in both the aleurone layer and embryo of the developing barley grain but not in the starchy endosperm. A high level of Beg1 mRNA is also present in the mature imbibed aleurones, which can be repressed by treatment with gibberellic acid. This repressive effect of gibberellin on the levels of Beg1 mRNA is confirmed in the gibberellin response-constitutive mutant, slender, whose aleurone layers do not accumulate Beg1 mRNA even in the absence of applied gibberellic acid. The deduced primary translation product of the Beg1 mRNA is a 63.7 amino acid (72 kDa) protein with homology to maize embryo globulin 1 (GLB1) and a partial sequence of a wheat 7S globulin. The internal amino acid sequence of BEG1 closely matches the N-terminal sequence of isolated barley aleurone globulin. Seven imperfect tandem repeats of 16 amino acids each are present near the N-terminus of BEG1, which conform to the consensus HGEGEREEEXGRGRGR, and contribute to the observed unusual amino acid composition of this protein. A second, distinct barley globulin gene, Beg2, which is homologous to maize Glb2, was detected by Northern and Southern analysis. Beg2 and Beg1 are regulated differently which may indicate variation in storage or utilization properties among the barley globulins.
A barley acidic beta-1,3-glucanase gene was recovered from a barley genomic library by homology with a partial cDNA of barley basic beta-1,3-glucanase isoenzyme GII. The gene, Abg2, is homologous to the PR2 family of pathogenesis-related beta-1,3-glucanase genes. The ABG2 protein has 81% amino acid similarity to barley basic beta-1,3-glucanase GII. The ABG2 protein is encoded as a preprotein of 336 amino acids including a 28 amino acid signal peptide. A 299 bp intron occurs within codon 25. The mature ABG2 protein has a predicted mass of 32,642 Da and a calculated isoelectric point of 4.9. The second exon of the Abg2 gene shows a strong preference for G + C in the third position of degenerate codons. The Abg2 gene was functionally expressed in Escherichia coli. Abg2 mRNA is constitutively expressed in barley root; leaf expression of Abg2 mRNA is induced by mercuric chloride and infection by Erysiphe graminis f. sp. hordei. Southern blot analysis indicates that Abg2 is a member of a small gene family.
A cDNA of 2,708 bp encoding type 2 sucrose synthase (Ss2) from barley has been sequenced. Similarity of this cDNA with respect to that of type 1 (Ss1) is high in the coding region (75% identical positions), but low (41% identical residues) in the 3' non-coding region. Type-specific non cross-hybridizing probes for Northern blot analysis have been obtained from the 3' ends. The Ss1 type is highly expressed in developing endosperm and in roots and, at lower levels, in coleoptiles and aleurone. The Ss2 mRNA is abundant in endosperm, low in aleurone, and undetected in coleoptiles and roots.
The plant growth substance (-)-jasmonic acid methyl ester (methyl jasmonate, JaMe) affects plastid gene expression at the protein and mRNA levels when applied exogenously to detached leaf segments of Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Salome. Translation of the large subunits of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (LSU, rbcL gene products) and of the 65 and 68 kDa proteins of photosystem I (psaA and psaB gene products, respectively) ceased, whereas synthesis of the 32 kDa photosystem II protein (D1, psbA gene product) continued in JaMe-treated leaf tissues. These changes were not caused by corresponding alterations in transcript abundances. The loss of LSU protein synthesis, occurring within 24 h of JaMe treatment, correlated with a decline in the in vitro-translatable rbcL mRNA, but contrasted with an almost constant transcript level. The 5' ends of the rbcL transcripts shifted from '-59' in freshly harvested or water-treated leaves to '-94' in JaMe-treated leaf tissues. Transcripts ending at these positions presumably arise from alternative processing of the primary transcript ending at position '-316'. The '-94' transcript contains, within the 5' untranslated region, a 35-base motif with remarkable complementarity to the extreme 3' terminal part of the 16S rRNA, involved in intramolecular base pairing within the ribosome and can associate with 30S but not 70S complexes in organello, suggesting that intermolecular base pairing impairs translation initiation, probably by competing for ribosome binding at the Shine-Dalgarno sequence. In contrast, transcripts ending at '-59' lack the 5' terminal 'extra' sequence and are active in terms of translation initiation.
To clone genes required for the synthesis of mugineic acid (MA) or for the transport of Fe(III)-MA, a lambda ZAPII cDNA library was constructed from poly(A)(+)-RNA isolated from Fe-deficient barley roots. The cDNA library was then used for differential screening of barley roots that had been grown in the presence and absence of iron. Seven clones that hybridized specifically to the probe for Fe deficiency were selected. One clone, presumably encoding a full-length mRNA, as deduced from Northern hybridization, was sequenced. The clone consisting of 1685 nucleotides encoded a putative protein of 169 amino acids and an M(r) of 18704. The gene was specifically expressed in the roots of iron-deficient barley. A search for homologies in a protein database (NBRF) revealed that the predicted protein product has a functional peptide domain that resembles that of 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenases.
RNA-degrading enzymes play an important role in regulating gene expression, and sequence analyses have revealed significant homology among several plant RNA-degrading enzymes. In this study we surveyed crude extracts of the above-ground part of the common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and the cultivated barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) for major RNA-degrading enzymes using a substrate-based SDS-PAGE assay. Fifteen wheat and fourteen barley RNA-degrading enzymes, with apparent molecular masses ranging from 16.3 to 40.1 kD, were identified. These RNA-degrading enzymes were characterized by their response to pH changes and addition of EDTA and ZnCl2 to the preincubation or incubation buffers. The 33.2- to 40.1-kD wheat and barley, 31.7-kD wheat, and 32.0-kD barley enzyme activities were inhibited by both zinc and EDTA and were relatively tolerant to alkaline environment. The 22.7- to 28.2-kD enzymes were inhibited by zinc but stimulated by EDTA. The 18.8-kD enzyme exists in both wheat and barley. It was active in an acid environment, was inhibited by zinc, but was not affected by EDTA. Two enzyme activities (31.0 and 32.0 kD) are unique to the common wheat.
The promoter of the barley alpha-thionin gene (1.6 kb) fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene directs temporally-controlled, tissue-specific expression in the endosperm of transgenic tobacco. The nucleotide sequence of this promoter shows negative regulatory motifs which have been functionally analyzed in other genes.
Chloroplast genomes encode rRNAs, tRNAs, and proteins involved in transcription, translation, and photosynthesis. The expression of 15 plastid genes representing each of these functions was quantitated during chloroplast development in barley (Hordeum vulgare). The transcription of all plastid genes increased during the initial phase of chloroplast development and then declined during chloroplast maturation. RNAs corresponding to rpoB- rpoC1-rpoC2, which encode subunits of a plastid RNA polymerase, and rps16, which encodes a ribosomal protein, reached maximal abundance early in chloroplast development prior to genes encoding subunits of the photosynthetic apparatus (rbcL, atpB, psaA, petB). Transcription of rpoB as well as 16S rRNA, trnfM-trnG, and trnK was high early in chloroplast development and declined 10-fold relative to rbcL transcription during chloroplast maturation. RNA hybridizing to psbA and psbD, genes encoding reaction center proteins of photosystem II, was differentially maintained in mature chloroplasts of illuminated barley. Differential accumulation of psbD mRNA relative to rbcL mRNA was due to light-stimulated transcription of psbD. In contrast, enhanced levels of psbA mRNA in mature chloroplasts were due primarily to selective stabilization of the psbA mRNA. These data document dynamic modulation of plastid gene transcription and mRNA stability during barley chloroplast development.
The full-length nucleotide sequence of a barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) leaf mRNA, found to increase rapidly in amount during infection attempts by the powdery mildew fungus (Erysiphe graminis DC. ex Mérat), is reported. The mRNA encodes a polypeptide of 809 amino acid residues which, by sequence comparison, was identified as a member of the 90 kDa heat shock protein (HSP90) family. The encoded protein most resembles the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) resident HSP90 protein, the 94 kDa glucose-regulated protein (GRP94) of vertebrates, as it possesses both the characteristic N-terminal domain including a signal peptide sequence and the C-terminal ER retention signal (Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu). A transcript cross-hybridizing at high stringency accumulated rapidly in leaves upon heat shock treatment. Genomic DNA blot analysis indicated the presence of a family of related genes in the barley genome.
Thionins are cysteine-rich, 5 kDa polypeptides which are toxic to plant pathogens in vitro. Expression of the gene encoding alpha-thionin from barley endosperm, under the 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus, conferred to transgenic tobacco enhanced resistance to the bacterial plant pathogens Pseudomonas syringae pv. tabaci 153 and P. syringae pv. syringae. The barley alpha-thionin gene, which has two introns, was correctly spliced in tobacco. The alpha-thionin in transgenic plants had the expected mobility in the gradient, when separated by high-performance liquid chromatography, reacted with monospecific antibodies and showed the expected antibiotic properties in vitro.
The association of host proteins with viral RNA replication proteins has been reported for a number of (+)-strand RNA viruses. However, little is known about the identity or function of these host proteins in viral replication. In this paper we report the characterization of a host protein associated with the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) from brome mosaic virus (BMV)-infected barley. A host protein was specifically and proportionally enriched with BMV RdRp activity through several purification steps. This RdRp-associated host protein reacted with an antiserum prepared against wheat germ eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 (eIF-3). The RdRp-associated host protein, the p41 subunit of wheat germ eIF-3, and an antigenically related protein from rabbit reticulocyte lysates were all found to bind with high affinity and specificity to BMV-encoded protein 2a, which is involved in viral RNA replication. Moreover, addition of wheat germ eIF-3 or the p41 subunit from wheat germ to BMV RdRp gave a specific and reproducible 3-fold stimulation of (-)-strand RNA synthesis in vivo. These results suggest that the barley analog of eIF-3 subunit p41, or a closely related protein, associates with BMV RdRp in vivo and is involved in BMV RNA replication. This observation and the established role of translation factors in bacteriophage Q beta RdRp suggest that association with translation factors may be a general feature of RNA replication by (+)-strand RNA viruses.
Transcription of plastid genes and transcript accumulation were investigated in white leaves of the albostrians mutant of barley (Hordeum vulgare) and in heat-bleached leaves of rye (Secale cereale) as well as in normal green leaves of both species. Cells of white leaves of the mutant and cells of heat-bleached leaves bear undifferentiated plastids lacking ribosomes and, consequently, plastid translation products, among them the subunits of a putative chloroplast RNA polymerase encoded by the plastid genes rpoA, B, C1 and C2. The following results were obtained. (i) Plastid genes are transcribed despite the lack of chloroplast gene-encoded RNA polymerase subunits. The plastid origin of these transcripts was proven. This finding provides evidence for the existence of a plastid RNA polymerase encoded entirely by nuclear genes. (ii) Transcripts of the rpo genes and of rps15, but not of genes involved in photosynthesis and related processes (psbA, rbcL, atpI-H), were abundantly accumulated in ribosome-deficient plastids. In contrast, chloroplasts accumulated transcripts of photosynthetic, but not of the rpo genes. (iii) Differences in transcript accumulation between chloroplasts and ribosome-deficient plastids are due to different relative transcription rates and different transcript stability. (iv) The observed differences in transcription are not caused by an altered pattern of methylation of plastid DNA. Thus, the prokaryotic plastid genome of higher plants is transcribed by two RNA polymerases. The observed differences in transcription between chloroplasts and undifferentiated plastids might reflect different functions of the two enzymes.
The tRNA-like structure present in the 3' noncoding region of each of the four virion RNAs of brome mosaic virus possesses a conserved A-67-U-A-65 (67AUA65) sequence. Four mutations in this region (67UAA65, 67GAA65, and 67CAA65, each with a double base change, and 67GUA65, containing a single point mutation), previously shown in vitro to be defective in minus-strand promoter function, were introduced into full-length genomic RNAs 2 and 3, and their replicative competence was analyzed in barley protoplasts. All four RNA 3 mutants were capable of replication, although progeny plus-sense RNA 3 accumulation was only 12 to 42% of that of the wild type. Replication of RNA 2 transcripts bearing these mutations was even more severely debilitated; the accumulation of each mutant progeny plus-strand RNA 2 was < 10% of that of the wild type. Analysis of mutant RNA 3 progeny recovered from local lesions induced in Chenopodium hybridum and systemic infections in barley (Hordeum vulgare) plants revealed that the mutant base at position 67 from the 3' end had in each case been modified to an A. These changes generated RNAs with functional pseudorevertant (67AAA65 for mutants 67UAA65, 67GAA65, and 67CAA65) or revertant (67GUA65-->67AUA65) sequences. In most instances, the presence of internal markers permitted discrimination between polymerase error and RNA recombination as the process by which sequence restoration occurred. The pseudorevertant sequence was found to be capable of persistence during subsequent propagation in plants when present on RNA 3 but not when present on RNA 2. These data document the fluidity of the RNA genome and reveal situations in which polymerase error or recombination can function preferentially to restore an optimal sequence. They also support the concept that RNA viruses frequently exist as quasispecies and have implications concerning evolutionary strategies for positive-strand RNA viruses.
Interference with virus replication through the use of defective viral sequences is providing new insight to replication strategies and novel approaches for induced resistance. Because replication of brome mosaic virus (BMV) is potentiated by the intercistronic region of RNA-3, we examined the effect of adding various (-)sense RNAs corresponding to this region in co-transfections with wild type BMV RNAs. Progeny accumulation in barley protoplasts transfected with RNAs 1+2 was decreased by 90% in the presence of (-)RNA-3 delta HindIII, the longest (-)sense transcript tested, and by 85% when RNA-3 was also present. This trans interference was concentration dependent, and the use of deletion derivatives of (-)RNA-3 delta HindIII revealed that previously identified regulatory sequences within the intercistronic region were responsible for the observed interference. These deletion mutants were found to be of differing stabilities and several served as effective substrates for host-encoded polymerase to yield complementary (+)strands. Indeed, it is possible that the copying of viral RNA by the host polymerase serves as a hybrid arrest mechanism for discriminating against viral RNA functions. However, neither the ability of these sequences to serve as templates for host polymerase nor their (+)strand products contributed to the interference phenomenon, which may provide a new approach for engineering resistance to viral infection.
Two cDNAs encoding barley (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucanase (EC 3.2.1.73) isoenzymes EI and EII have been expressed in Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) cell cultures using the baculovirus AcNPV vector. Modifications to both the 5' and 3' ends of the cDNAs were required before satisfactory levels of expression were obtained. The modified cDNAs directed high levels of (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucanase expression in the Sf9 insect cell cultures, with yields of approximately 10 mg/liter of isoenzyme EI (expEI) and 15 mg/liter of isoenzyme EII (expEII). Amino acid sequence analyses showed that the expressed enzymes were processed correctly at their amino termini. However, affinity chromatography of the isoenzyme expEII on concanavalin-A (conA)-Sepharose indicated that, although the enzyme is glycosylated, the structures of the carbohydrate chains differ from those of the native enzyme. When a cDNA encoding the homologous barley (1-->3)-beta-glucanase (EC 3.2.1.39) isoenzyme GII was expressed in insect cells, aberrant amino-terminal processing of the nascent polypeptide was sometimes observed. The forms with incompletely removed signal peptides retained their substrate specificity, but exhibited slightly reduced catalytic efficiency, altered chromatographic behavior, and reduced stability at elevated temperatures. The results show that high levels of expression of recombinant plant proteins can be obtained in insect cells, but they emphasize the need to characterize thoroughly the products that are expressed in the heterologous insect cell system before comparisons are made with the native enzyme or with engineered enzyme mutants.
Crude extracts of starchy endosperm from barley (Hordeum vulgare cv Bomi) contained high pyrophosphorolytic activity (up to 0.5 mumol of glucose-1-P formed min-1 mg-1 of protein) of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGP) when assayed in the absence of 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA). This high activity was observed regardless of whether AGP had been extracted in the presence or absence of various protease inhibitors or other protectants. Western blot analysis using antibodies specific for either the small or large subunit of the enzyme demonstrated that the large, 60-kD subunit was prone to proteolysis in crude extracts, with a half-time of degradation at 4 degrees C (from 60 to 53 to 51 kD) on the order of minutes. The presence of high concentrations of protease inhibitors decreased, but did not prevent this proteolysis. The small, 51-kD subunit of barley endosperm AGP was relatively resistant to proteolysis, both in the presence or absence of protease inhibitors. For the crude, nonproteolyzed enzyme, 3-PGA acted as a weak activator of the ADP-glucose synthetic reaction (about 25% activation), whereas in the reverse reaction (pyrophosphorolysis) it served as an inhibitor rather than an activator. For both the synthetic and pyrophosphorolytic reactions, inorganic phosphate (Pi) acted as a weak competitive or mixed inhibitor of AGP. The relative insensitivity to 3-PGA/Pi regulation has been observed with both the nonproteolyzed crude enzyme and partially purified (over 60-fold) AGP, the latter characterized by two bands for the large subunit (molecular masses of 53 and 51 kD) and one band for the small subunit (51 kD). Addition of 3-PGA to assays of the partially purified, proteolyzed enzyme had little or no effect on the Km values of all substrates of AGP, but it reduced the Hill coefficient for ATP (from 2.1 to 1.0). These findings are discussed with respect to previous reports on the structure and regulation of higher plant AGP.
The barley gene encoding dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) was delivered by micoprojectile bombardment into leaf sheath tissue of the anthocyanin-free barley mutant ant 18-162, a mutant which lacks DFR activity-probably because of a missense mutation in the structural gene for DFR. The delivered gene complemented the mutation, as evidenced by the synthesis of anthocyanin in individual leaf sheath cells of the bombarded tissues. Pigment synthesis appeared two days after gene delivery and both the number of pigmented cells and the intensity of pigmentation increased over the following days. Depending on the physiological condition of the host plants, up to 15 pigmented cells per 10 tissue segments were detected. These results demonstrate that the Ant 18 gene of barley encodes dihydroflavonol-4-reductase. A series of gene constructs encoding DFR were expressed in the anthocyanin-free mutant tissue. The genomic clone complemented the mutation whereas an equivalent plasmid with all introns deleted did not. The highest number of pigmented cells was obtained using plasmids containing the DFR-coding sequence interrupted by intron 1 of the genomic clone, indicating that the presence of an intron stabilizes the DFR message.
The effect of daily heat-shock treatments on gene expression and morphogenesis of etiolated barley (Hordeum vulgare) was investigated. Heat-shock treatments in the dark induced shortening of the primary leaves and the coleoptiles to the length of those in light-grown plantlets. In addition, the mRNA levels of the light-induced genes that were investigated were raised under these conditions and showed distinct oscillations over a period of at least 3 d. While the mRNA levels for chlorophyll a/b binding protein (LHC II), plastocyanin, and the small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase had maxima between 8 and 12 pm (12-16h after the last heat-shock treatment), the mRNA levels for thionin oscillated with a phase opposed to that of LHC II. Etiolated barley, the circadian oscillator of which was synchronized by cyclic heatshock treatments, was illuminated for a constant interval at different times of the day; this led to the finding that greening was fastest at the time when the maximal levels of mRNA for LHC II were also observed. Whereas accumulation of chlorophyll a during a 4-h period of illumination oscillated by a factor of 3, chlorophyll b accumulation changed 10- to 15-fold. Similarly, accumulation of LHC II was highest when pigments accumulated maximally. Hence, greening or, in other words, thylakoid membrane assembly is under control of the circadian oscillator.
The beta-ketoacyl-acyl carrier protein (ACP) synthase I in the plant fatty acid synthetase catalyzes the condensations of acetate units to a growing acyl-ACP leading to the synthesis of palmitoyl-ACP. Barley chloroplasts contain three cerulenin sensitive beta-ketoacyl-ACP synthase I isoforms, alpha 2, alpha beta, and beta 2. The Kas12 gene encoding the beta 2 isozyme has been isolated and sequenced. The gene spans 3.8 kilobases and contains seven exons separated by six intervening sequences varying from 75 to 1008 base pairs in length. The mosaic gene structure is different compared with that of the beta-ketoacyl synthase in the multifunctional rat and goose fatty acid synthetases. Southern blot analyses of genomic DNA from barley, wheat, and the barley-wheat chromosome addition lines indicate that Kas12 is a single copy gene located on chromosome 2. Primer extension analyses identified four transcription start sites located 168-171 nucleotides upstream from the translation initiation codon. The Kas12 promoter lacks an appropriately positioned TATA box and contains a GC-rich region including two GC elements similar to the Sp1 transcription factor-binding site. In this regard Kas12 closely resembles a set of ubiquitously expressed eucaryotic genes. In accord with this deduction, polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that the Kas12 transcript is present in barley roots, germinating embryos, developing kernels, and leaves.
The mechanisms by which cis-acting hormone response elements affect transcription is unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that a second "coupling element," identified as O2S, must be present to allow a single copy of either the gibberellin response element (GARE) or the abscisic acid response element (ABRE) to mediate their hormonal effects in the barley Amy32b alpha-amylase gene promoter. The interactive effects of the O2S and the GARE are constrained positionally and spatially; thus, together they form a gibberellin response complex (GARC). The absolute requirement of the O2S for function of the ABRE demonstrates that these together form an abscisic acid response complex (ABRC). A second copy of the GARE can substitute for the O2S in the GARC, but only in one orientation. By expressing the GARC-containing and ABRC-containing promoters in developing aleurone tissue, we showed that hormonal effects prevent alpha-amylase gene expression during the second half of grain development, but other mechanisms suppress expression earlier. Our results suggest that the specific sequence serving as a coupling element in a given gene promoter will greatly affect where and when the GARE or ABRE will be able to regulate transcription.
Deletion analysis has previously shown that the major gibberellic acid (GA)- and abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive elements in the promoter of a high-pI alpha-amylase gene of barley are located downstream of -174 (Jacobsen and Close, 1991). We have used transient expression assays in barley aleurone protoplasts to identify sequences between -174 and +53 that confer GA and ABA responsiveness on expression of a beta-glucuronidase reporter gene. Using alpha-amylase promoter fragments and synthetic oligonucleotides fused to minimal promoters, we have shown that the hormone-responsive region is located between -174 and -108. A single copy of this region fused to a minimal alpha-amylase promoter (-41) conferred both GA- and ABA-responsive expression on the reporter gene comparable to the positive control, Am(-174)IGN. Multiple copies of this region were able to activate even greater levels of expression. Site-directed mutagenesis was used to determine the functional importance of the conserved motifs (-169pyrimidine box, -143TAACAAA box, and -124TATCCAC box) and nonconserved intervening sequences within the region between -174 and -108. Our results showed that both the TAACAAA and TATCCAC boxes play an important role in GA-regulated expression. We propose that the TAACAAA box is a gibberellin response element, that the TATCCAC box acts cooperatively with the TAACAAA box to give a high level of GA-regulated expression, and that together these motifs form important components of a gibberellin response complex in high-pI alpha-amylase genes. The TAACAAA box also appears to be the site of action of ABA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Brome mosaic virus (BMV) is a positive-strand RNA virus that encodes two RNA replication proteins, the helicaselike 1a and the polymeraselike 2a. 1a and 2a share extensive sequence similarities with proteins encoded by many other members of the alphaviruslike superfamily. While further purifying enzymatically active RNA-dependent RNA polymerase from plants infected by BMV, we observed that 1a, 2a, and the polymerase activity all cofractionated through multiple independent purification steps. Moreover, using immunoprecipitation, we found that BMV 1a and 2a proteins synthesized in rabbit reticulocyte lysates or insect cells can form a specific complex in vitro. Complex formation was more efficient when 1a and 2a were cotranslated than when they were mixed after independent synthesis. In an antibody-independent assay, in vitro-translated 1a protein was also found to bind to 2a protein fixed on a nylon membrane. A three-amino-acid insertion in 1a that blocks BMV RNA replication in vivo also blocked in vitro interaction with 2a, while another two-amino-acid insertion that renders the 1a protein temperature sensitive for RNA replication interacted in vitro with 2a at 24 degrees C but not at 32 degrees C. These results and previous genetic data suggest that the 1a-2a interaction observed in vitro is required for BMV RNA replication and may have direct implications for other members of the alphaviruslike superfamily.
Higher plant plastid genomes encode rRNAs, tRNAs, and protein subunits of the RNA polymerase, ribosomes, and the photosynthetic apparatus which vary over 1000-fold in abundance. Quantitative analysis of transcription and RNA levels was carried out on 15 plastid genes which are located in 14 different transcription units covering 50% of the barley plastid genome. Transcription of 16S rRNA, trnfM-trnG, and trnK was high relative to most other plastid genes. Transcription of trnfM-trnG was 5 times greater than trnK indicating that differences in tRNA levels in plastids could be due, in part, to differences in transcription. Among the protein coding genes, mRNA levels varied over 900-fold and transcription over 300-fold. The gene showing the lowest transcription rate and mRNA level, rpoB, is located in a gene cluster which encodes subunits of the plastid RNA polymerase (rpoB-rpoC1-rpoC2). RpoA, which encodes the alpha subunit of the RNA polymerase, was located in a gene cluster encoding ribosomal proteins (rpl23, rps19, rpl16) and infA. RNA from this gene cluster is 30-fold more abundant than rpoB mRNA, suggesting that expression of rpoA is regulated at the level of translation or protein stability. Polycistronic operons encoding subunits of the photosynthetic apparatus (psbB-psbH-petB-petD; psbK-psbI-psbD-psbC; atpB-atpE; psaA-psaB) had higher transcription rates and correspondingly higher mRNA levels than genes which encode ribosomal proteins or RNA polymerase subunits. RbcL and psbA, which are located in separate transcription units, exhibited the highest transcription rates and mRNA levels. Correspondence between transcription rate, mRNA level, and protein abundance indicates that transcription is a primary determinant of barley plastid gene expression. In addition, a 30-fold variation in predicted mRNA stability was observed which further increases the dynamic range of plastid mRNA abundance.
The (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan glucanohydrolases [(1-->3)-GGH; EC 3.2.1.39] of barley (Hordeum vulgare L., cv Clipper) are encoded by a small gene family. Amino acid sequences deduced from cDNA and genomic clones for six members of the family exhibit overall positional identities ranging from 44% to 78%. Specific DNA and oligodeoxyribonucleotide (oligo) probes have been used to demonstrate that the (1-->3)-GGH-encoding genes are differentially transcribed in young roots, young leaves and the aleurone of germinated grain. The high degree of sequence homology, coupled with characteristic patterns of codon usage and insertion of a single intron at a highly conserved position in the signal peptide region, indicate that the genes have shared a common evolutionary history. Similar structural features in genes encoding barley (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucan 4-glucanohydrolases [(1-->3,1-->4)-GGH; EC 3.2.1.73] further indicate that the (1-->3)-GGHs and (1-->3,1-->4)-GGHs are derived from a single 'super' gene family, in which genes encoding enzymes with related yet quite distinct substrate specificities have evolved, with an associated specialization of function. The (1-->3,1-->4)-GGHs mediate in plant cell wall metabolism through their ability to hydrolyse the (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucans that are the major constituents in barley walls, while the (1-->3)-GGHs, which are unable to degrade the plant (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucans, can hydrolyse the (1-->3)- and (1-->3,1-->6)-beta-glucans of fungal cell walls.
We investigated whether intracellular pH (pH(i)) is a causal mediator in abscisic acid (ABA)-induced gene expression. We measured the change in pH(i) by a "null-point" method during stimulation of barley (Hordeum vulgare cv Himalaya) aleurone protoplasts with ABA and found that ABA induces an increase in pH(i) from 7.11 to 7.30 within 45 min after stimulation. This increase is inhibited by plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase inhibitors, which induce a decrease in pH(i), both in the presence and absence of ABA. This ABA-induced pH(i) increase precedes the expression of RAB-16 mRNA, as measured by northern analysis. ABA-induced pH(i) changes can be bypassed or clamped by addition of either the weak acids 5,5-dimethyl-2,4-oxazolidinedione and propionic acid, which decrease the pH(i), or the weak bases methylamine and ammonia, which increase the pH(i). Artificial pH(i) increases or decreases induced by weak bases or weak acids, respectively, do not induce RAB-16 mRNA expression. Clamping of the pH(i) at a high value with methylamine or ammonia treatment affected the ABA-induced increase of RAB-16 mRNA only slightly. However, inhibition of the ABA-induced pH(i) increase with weak acid or proton pump inhibitor treatments strongly inhibited the ABA-induced RAB-16 mRNA expression. We conclude that, although the ABA-induced the pH(i) increase is correlated with and even precedes the induction of RAB-16 mRNA expression and is an essential component of the transduction pathway leading from the hormone to gene expression, it is not sufficient to cause such expression.
The ATCC66 strain of brome mosaic virus (BMV) (propagated at Kyoto University) contained two types of coat protein in its virion whereas the Russian strain of BMV has been known to contain a single coat protein; both strains have two initiation codons for coat protein in the same reading frame at the 5'-proximal end of the gene in RNA 4. Comparative studies on the nucleotide sequences of the ATCC66 and Russian strains of BMV demonstrated that in the ATCC66 strain, two adjacent adenine residues were absent from RNA 3 in the leader sequences of the coat protein gene just a few nucleotides 5' to the first initiation codon of the coat protein gene. Using biologically active cDNA clones of BMV RNA of the ATCC66 strain, we inserted two adjacent adenine residues into the cDNA of RNA 3 to obtain an RNA 3 transcript which has the same nucleotide sequence as the Russian strain in the non-coding leader sequence of the coat protein gene. Barley protoplasts inoculated with this RNA 3 transcript together with RNA 1 and 2 produced a single coat protein. To obtain further insight into the mechanism of translation of the BMV coat protein, we constructed several types of RNA 4 by changing the sequence surrounding the first AUG codon in the coat protein gene and analysed the in vitro translation products of the mutant RNA 4. The results confirmed that the absence of the two adjacent adenine residues was responsible for the production of two types of coat protein in the ATCC66 strain. The deletion of the two adjacent adenine residues in ATCC66 resulted in a base substitution of A with U three nucleotides 5' to the first AUG in the coat protein gene. The base substitution reduced translational activity from the first AUG codon and concomitantly increased translational activity from the second AUG codon from which a truncated coat protein was translated.
A new member of the barley (1-->3)-beta-glucan glucanohydrolase family of enzymes has been purified from extracts of germinated grain and young seedlings by fractional precipitation with ammonium sulphate, ion-exchange chromatography, chromatofocussing and gel-filtration chromatography. The enzyme, which has been designated (1-->3)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme GIII, is a basic protein with an apparent molecular mass of 32 000 Da. Oligosaccharide products released by the enzyme during hydrolysis of the (1-->3)-beta-glucan, laminarin, indicate that the enzyme is an endohydrolase. A 2349-bp fragment of barley genomic DNA has been isolated and identified as the gene encoding the (1-->3)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme GIII. The open reading frame encoding the isoenzyme is interrupted by a single intron of 180 bp that splits a codon in the putative signal-peptide region. Northern-blot analyses with gene-specific probes indicate that the (1-->3)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme GIII mRNA accumulates in developing leaves; no mRNA transcripts were detected in the aleurone or scutellum of germinated grain, or in mature vegetative tissues. Although plant (1-->3)-beta-glucanases are generally classified as 'pathogenesis-related' proteins, the physiological function of the barley (1-->3)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme GIII is unclear.
The temporal and spatial pattern of expression of a novel barley gene is described. The gene has been identified through the differential screening of a cDNA library constructed to poly(A)+ RNA of zygotic embryos. Transcripts corresponding to the cDNA, pZE40, become abundant in the non-axial tissues of the developing embryo within 8-10 days after anthesis, when steady-state levels are high in the scutellum, coleoptile and coleorhiza, with the exception of the scutellar epithelium. This expression pattern is maintained throughout maturation of the embryo until levels eventually decline as the grain desiccates. On germination, there is a transient re-appearance of mRNA to pZE40, with accumulation specifically restricted to the scutellum of the seedling. In situ hybridization has enabled the detection of transcripts elsewhere in the barley plant, in highly localized groups of cells. The timing and cell specificity of expression suggests the gene product is involved in the synthesis and/or transport of metabolites.
Genomic sequences homologous to the yeast gene SNF1 have been isolated from barley (Hordeum vulgare) cv. Sunbar. SNF1 encodes a protein serine/threonine kinase required for the derepression of a number of genes, including SUC2 (invertase) in response to glucose deprivation. Southern blotting showed the presence of a family of related genes in barley and full-length sequences have been determined for two members of the family, one of which lacks an exon and is almost certainly non-functional. A partial sequence has been obtained for a third member of the family. The transcription start site of one of the genes has been determined by S1 nuclease protection. A transcript almost identical in sequence to the exons of one of the genes has been amplified from barley endosperm mRNA using the polymerase chain reaction. One of the full-length genomic sequences contains nine introns and 10 exons and the number and position of the introns in the second full-length sequence is identical except that it lacks exon 2. However, the length and sequence of the introns vary. Northern blot analyses indicated that related transcripts are present in aleurones, coleoptiles, endosperms, internodes, leaves, ovules, roots and root tips, with highest levels of expression in the aleurones and endosperms.
The immediate precursor in the synthesis of tetrapyrroles is Delta-aminolevulinate (ALA). ALA is synthesized from glutamate in higher plants, algae, and certain bacteria. Glutamate 1-semialdehyde aminotransferase (EC 5.4.3.8) (GSA-AT), the third enzyme involved in this metabolic pathway, catalyzes the transamination of GSA to form ALA. The gene encoding this aminotransferase has previously been isolated from barley (Hordeum vulgare) and inserted into an Escherichia coli expression vector. We describe herein the purification of this recombinant barley GSA-AT expressed in Escherichia coli. Coexpression of GroEL and GroES is required for isolation of active aminotransferase from the soluble protein fraction of Escherichia coli. Purified GSA-AT exhibits absorption maxima characteristic of vitamin B(6)-containing enzymes. GSA-AT is primarily in the pyridoxamine form when isolated and can be interconverted between this and the pyridoxal form by addition of 4,5-dioxovalerate and 4,5-diaminovalerate. The conversion of GSA to ALA under steady-state conditions exhibited typical Michaelis-Menten kinetics. Values for K(m) (d,l-GSA) and k(cat) were determined to be 25 micromolar and 0.11 per second, respectively, by nonlinear regression analysis. Stimulation of ALA synthesis by increasing concentrations of d,l-GSA at various fixed concentrations of 4,5-diaminovalerate supports the hypothesis that 4,5-diaminovalerate is the intermediate in the synthesis of ALA.
Data from 311 selfed families isolated from four generations (F8, F13, F23, F45) of an experimental barley population were analyzed to determine patterns of change in character expression for seven quantitative traits, and in single-locus allelic frequencies, and multilocus genetic structure, for 16 Mendelian loci that code for discretely recognizable variants. The analyses showed that large changes in single-locus allelic frequencies and major reorganizations in multilocus genetic structure occurred in each of the generation-to-generation transitions examined. Although associations among a few traits persisted over generations, dynamic dissociations and reassociations occurred among several traits in each generation-transition period. Overall, the restructuring that occurred was characterized by gradual decreases in the number of clusters of associated traits and increases in the number of traits within each cluster. The observed changes in single-locus frequencies and in multilocus genetic structure were attributed to interplay among various evolutionary factors among which natural selection acting in a temporally heterogeneous environment was the guiding force.
Treatment of young barley leaves with indole acetic acid (IAA) or gibberellic acid (GA3) results in a dramatic increase in levels of (1----3,1----4)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme EI transcripts. In young roots of comparable age, levels of isoenzyme EI mRNA are high; IAA inhibits expression while GA3 has no effect on mRNA levels. The addition of both abscisic acid and GA3 to leaves, roots and aleurone layers leads to higher levels of (1----3,1----4)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme EI mRNA than is found with Ga3 alone. Little or no expression of (1----3,1----4)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme EII is detected in vegetative tissues, but in isolated aleurone layers GA3 enhances levels of isoenzyme EII transcripts, as does IAA. Thus, the two barley (1----3,1----4)-beta-glucanase genes respond quite differently to phytohormone treatment, depending on the tissue and its stage of development.
Two genes encode (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-d-glucan 4-glucanohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.73) isoenzymes EI and EII in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Specific DNA probes have been used in Northern analyses to examine the developmental regulation of individual (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucanase genes in the aleurone and scutellum of germinated grain and in young leaves and young roots. In aleurone and scutella excised from germinated grain, mRNAs encoding both isoenzymes are present but developmental patterns differ between the two tissues. Thus, levels of both isoenzyme EI and EII mRNA increase significantly in the aleurone between 1 and 3 days after the initiation of germination. In the scutellum, isoenzyme EI mRNA predominates and decreases as germination proceeds. Isoenzyme EI mRNA appears in young leaves approximately 8 days after the initiation of germination and levels rise until about 20 days. Enzyme activity in leaf extracts parallels the development of isoenzyme EI mRNA. No isoenzyme EII mRNA is detected in the leaves in this period. Analysis of RNA from different leaf segments indicates that the isoenzyme EI mRNA is distributed relatively evenly along the length of the leaf. In young roots, mRNA encoding (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme EI is detected at high levels 3 to 6 days after the initiation of germination; again, little or no isoenzyme EII mRNA is found. Overall, transcription of the (1-->3,1-->4)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme EII gene appears to be restricted to the germinating grain, whereas isoenzyme EI is expressed in a wider range of tissues during seedling development.
Barley (1----3,1----4)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme II is synthesized in the aleurone cells during germination and secreted into the endosperm for hydrolysis of the cell walls. Its synthesis is stimulated by gibberellic acid (GA3) and repressed by abscisic acid. The gene for isoenzyme I is expressed in the aleurone, scutellum and prominently in young leaves. Close functional relatedness between the two enzymes is attested by 92% identity at the level of the amino acid sequence. The structural genes for the two enzymes each contain a large intron of 2505 bp and 2952 bp, respectively, in the codon for amino acid 25 of the 28-residue signal peptide. During evolution, homologous regions of the two introns have changed position and orientation. Furthermore, a large palindromic sequence of 327 bp in the 5' end of the intron is present only in the gene for isoenzyme II. In transient expression assays using barley aleurone protoplasts and chloramphenicol acetyl transferase as reporter the promoter of the isoenzyme I gene showed no response to GA3. However, removal of a unique 151 bp region extending from positions -402 to -552 upstream of the TATA box permitted low levels of GA3-induced expression of the reporter gene, suggesting a silencer function for this domain. High levels of GA3-responsive expression were obtained in aleurone protoplasts using the promoter of the gene encoding isoenzyme II. Truncation of this promoter revealed that sequences located within 253 bp upstream from the TATA box are sufficient to direct GA3-stimulated expression. Using the homologous barley aleurone protoplast transfection assay, it was possible to reproduce the in vivo expression characteristics of the genes for the barley (1----3,1----4)-beta-glucanase isoenzymes I and II with reporter gene constructs.
Several cDNAs encoding the small and large subunit of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGP) were isolated from total RNA of the starchy endosperm, roots and leaves of barley by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Sets of degenerate oligonucleotide primers, based on previously published conserved amino acid sequences of plant AGP, were used for synthesis and amplification of the cDNAs. For either the endosperm, roots and leaves, the restriction analysis of PCR products (ca. 550 nucleotides each) has revealed heterogeneity, suggesting presence of three transcripts for AGP in the endosperm and roots, and up to two AGP transcripts in the leaf tissue. Based on the derived amino acid sequences, two clones from the endosperm, beps and bepl, were identified as coding for the small and large subunit of AGP, respectively, while a leaf transcript (blpl) encoded the putative large subunit of AGP. There was about 50% identity between the endosperm clones, and both of them were about 60% identical to the leaf cDNA. Northern blot analysis has indicated that beps and bepl are expressed in both the endosperm and roots, while blpl is detectable only in leaves. Application of the PCR technique in studies on gene structure and gene expression of plant AGP is discussed.
The level of expression of the group 3 late embryogenesis abundant abscisic acid-regulated gene (HVA1) to cold treatment has been studied in winter barley (Hordeum vulgare) seedling tissue. The cDNA clone (pHVA1) encoding this late embryogenesis abundant protein was used as a hybridization probe to detect the corresponding mRNA. Expression of the HVA1 gene was determined after the tissue had been subjected to a regimen of 2 degrees C exposure (cold acclimation), followed by a return to 25 degrees C growth conditions (deacclimation). Accumulation of HVA1 mRNA occurred upon cold acclimation of the tissue and disappeared as early as 2 hours after exposure to deacclimation conditions. A comparison of the response to cold acclimation and deacclimation was made between seedling tissue of a freeze-resistant and less freeze-resistant cultivar. In both cultivars, the HVA1 gene was expressed and modulated by cold treatment. Within 2 hours of deacclimation HVA1 mRNA was no longer detectable in either cultivar independently of freeze resistance. The level of expression of HVA1 appeared to be greater in the less freeze-resistant cultivar (Winter Malt).
The methylation status of B-hordein genes in the developing barley endosperm was analyzed by digestion with methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes. Southern blotting revealed specific demethylation of Hpa II sites in DNA from wild-type endosperm, whereas leaf DNA and lys3a mutant endosperm DNA were highly methylated at these sites. Similar methylation patterns were observed at an Ava I site situated at position -260 in the B-hordein promoter. This differential methylation was confirmed by genomic sequencing with ligation-mediated PCR. The analyzed sequence covers most of the B-hordein promoter and includes 10 CpGs from the promoter and 4 CpGs from the adjacent coding region. These sites were all hypomethylated in wild-type endosperm, whereas--except for three partially methylated sites--full methylation was seen in leaf DNA. The four sites in the coding region were partially methylated in lys3a endosperm DNA, but the promoter sites remained highly methylated. The possible role of methylation in the regulatory function of the Lys3 gene product is discussed.
To investigate the mechanisms by which the expression of a specific gene may be modulated by multiple hormones, the regulation of nitrate reductase (NR) mRNA levels by cytokinin and abscisic acid (ABA) was studied in etiolated barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Robust) leaves using a barley NR cDNA as a probe. Northern blot analyses of the levels of NR mRNA indicate that accumulation of the mRNA was enhanced by the cytokinin, benzyladenine (BA), and suppressed by ABA and that the hormonal effects on NR gene expression were responsive to dose concentrations (10(-7) to 10(-4) molar). The NR mRNA levels were influenced by the BA/ABA concentration ratios, and the inhibition of the NR transcript levels by ABA was not totally reversed by addition of equal concentrations (10(-7) to 10(-4) molar) of BA. Nuclear runoff transcription studies showed that the level of transcription was suppressed by ABA, and addition of an equal concentration of BA partially reversed the ABA action. Thus, the interaction of cytokinin and ABA on NR gene expression is, at least in part, at the level of transcription.
Accumulation of plastid-encoded chlorophyll apoproteins and chlorophyll synthesis are controlled by light in angiosperms. An in vitro system utilizing isolated and lysed barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) etioplasts revealed the specific accumulation of P700, CP47, CP43 and D2 triggered by de novo synthesis of chlorophyll. Accumulation rates of radiolabelled chlorophyll apoproteins were linear for about 30 min. Pulse/chase translation assays showed that synthesis of chlorophyll does not result in increased chlorophyll apoprotein stability. Instead turnover rates of chlorophyll apoproteins were higher in the presence than in the absence of chlorophyll. Chlorophyll-dependent accumulation of chlorophyll apoproteins must therefore be regulated on the level of translation. Translation of chlorophyll apoproteins was blocked to about 50% by addition of 30-50 microM aurintricarboxylic acid or 20 microM kasugamycin. The kinetics of chlorophyll-dependent translation indicated that the in vitro translation system is capable of translation initiation. The capability of translation initiation was lost in lysed etioplasts after preincubation for at least 5 min without chlorophyll synthesis. The results suggest that initiation is involved in chlorophyll-dependent regulation of translation.
The barley yellow dwarf virus genome consists of a single 5.7-kb RNA encoding six open reading frames (ORFs). The four ORFs in the 3' half of the genome were proposed to be expressed via subgenomic mRNAs. Here, we show that the PAV serotype of barley yellow dwarf virus generates two subgenomic RNAs of 2.9 and 0.8 kb in infected plants and protoplasts. The 5' end of the larger subgenomic RNA (sgRNA1) was precisely mapped to base 2769 by ribonuclease protection and primer extension methods. Synthetic sgRNA1, containing the exact 5' and 3' ends, was generated by in vitro transcription, translated in vitro, and shown to serve as a message for three ORFs. Translation initiated at the first two AUG codons in sgRNA1, yielding the 22-kDa viral coat protein (CP) and a 17-kDa protein encoded by an overlapping, out-of-frame ORF. In addition, readthrough of the amber stop codon of the CP ORF gave rise to a 72-kDa fusion product of the CP ORF and an in-frame 50K ORF immediately 3' of the CP termination codon. The 0.8-kb sgRNA2 was present in greater abundance than sgRNA1 and likely serves as a message for a 6.7K ORF at the 3' end of the genome. Sequences that may control subgenomic RNA synthesis and the translational events are compared with those of other plant viruses.
Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) have been applied to regulate gene expression using cell-free media or animal cells. Here we demonstrate the specific inhibition of barley alpha-amylase gene expression by synthetic antisense ODNs. In a cell free system using wheat-germ extracts, 5 microM of a 20-mer antisense ODN prevented the synthesis of the polypeptide corresponding to the predetermined length of alpha-amylase translated in vitro, whereas there was no effect on other protein synthesis. Furthermore, in cultured aleurone cells, alpha-amylase activity was efficiently decreased by addition of ODNs. At the concentrations higher than 5 microM, antisense ODN inhibited alpha-amylase gene expression almost completely. These results imply that ODN could transport into the cultured aleurone cells crossing the cell membrane, and regulate specific gene expression. This simple model system could be applicable not only for the analysis of the alpha-amylase multigene family in barley but also for studying functions of cryptic genes in higher plant.
The major peroxidase of barley seed BP 1 was characterized. Previous studies showed a low carbohydrate content, low specific activity and tissue-specific expression, and suggested that this basic peroxidase could be particularly useful in the elucidation of the structure-function relationship and in the study of the biological roles of plant peroxidases (S.K. Rasmussen, K.G. Welinder and J. Hejgaard (1991) Plant Mol Biol 16: 317-327). A cDNA library was prepared from mRNA isolated from seeds 15 days after flowering. Full-length clones were obtained and showed 3' end length variants, a G+C content of 69% in the translated region, a 90% G or C preference in the wobble position of the codons and a typical signal peptide sequence. N-terminal amino acid sequencing and sequence analysis of tryptic peptides verified 98% of the sequence of the mature BP 1 which contains 309 amino acid residues. BP 1 is the first characterized plant peroxidase which is not blocked by pyroglutamate. BP 1 polymorphism was observed. BP 1 is less than 50% identical to other plant peroxidases which, taken together with its developmentally dependent expression in the endosperm 15-20 days after flowering, suggests a unique biological role of this enzyme. The barley peroxidase is processed at the C-terminus and might be targeted to the vacuole. The single site of glycosylation is located near the C-terminus in the N-glycosylation sequon -Asn-Cys-Ser- in which Cys forms part of a disulphide bridge. The major glycan is a typical plant modified-type structure, Man alpha 1-6(Xyl beta 1-2)Man beta 1-4GlcNAc beta 1-4(Fuc alpha 1-3)GlcNAc. The BP 1 gene was RFLP-mapped on barley chromosome 3, and we propose Prx5 as the name for this new peroxidase locus.
A cDNA clone encoding the photosystem I subunit, PSI-G was isolated from barley using an oligonucleotide specifying a partial amino acid sequence from a 9 kDa polypeptide of barley photosystem I. The 724 bp sequence contains an open reading frame encoding a precursor polypeptide of 15,107 kDa. Import studies using the in vitro expressed barley PsaG cDNA clone demonstrate that PSI-G migrates with an apparent molecular mass of 9 kDa on SDS-polyacrylamide gels together with PSI-C (subunit-VII). The previous assignment of the gene product of PsaG from spinach as subunit V (Steppuhn J, Hermans J, Nechushtai R, Ljungberg U, Thümmler F, Lottspeich F, Herrmann RG, FEBS Lett 237: 218-224, 1988) needs to be re-examined. The expression of the psaG gene is light-induced similar to other barley photosystem I genes. A significant sequence similarity to PSI-K from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii was discovered when a gene database was searched with the barley PSI-G amino acid sequence. Extensive sequence similarity between the nuclear-encoded photosystem I subunits has not previously been found. The observed sequence similarity between PSI-G and PSI-K suggests a symmetric location of these subunits in the photosystem I complex. The hydropathy plot of the barley PSI-G polypeptide indicates two membrane-spanning regions which are also found at the corresponding locations in the PSI-K polypeptide. PSI-G and PSI-K probably have evolved from a gene duplication of an ancestral gene.
We developed a system using 'passive' reporter genes driven by aleurone tissue-specific promoters to test the effect of methylation of foreign DNA on its stability after introduction into barley plants. The foreign DNA was introduced into barley cells and was able to persist through at least two plant generations. Transformation of barley cells was defined by showing initiation of transcription at the proper site on the barley promoter for the chimeric gene in aleurone tissue from both a primary transformant and its progeny, and by tissue-specific expression (aleurone greater than leaf) in the progeny. This persistence through many multiples of cell division is formally equivalent to transformation, regardless of whether the DNA was chromosomally integrated or carried as an episome, but did not necessarily represent stable integration into the genome since the foreign DNA was frequently rearranged or lost. The foreign DNA was most stable when plasmid DNA used in transformation lacked dA methylation but had complete methylation of dC residues in the CG dinucleotide at Hpa II sites; dA methylation alone was associated with marked foreign DNA instability. Our results are consistent with the presence of a previously undefined system in barley that identifies DNA lacking the proper methylation pattern and causes its loss from actively dividing cells. These results may be important when applied to different strategies using selectable markers for cereal transformation.
The late embryogenesis-abundant (Lea) genes, which are suggested to act as desiccation protectants during seed desiccation and in water-stressed seedlings, can be induced by abscisic acid (ABA) and various kinds of water-related stress. Using cotton Lea cDNAs as probes it was found that several of the Lea genes are conserved at the mRNA level in dicots and monocots. By screening a barley cDNA library with a cotton Lea D19 cDNA a family of three members was isolated. The putative B19 proteins have strong similarities to the Em protein in wheat and to LEA proteins from several dicots. However, the middle part of the B19 proteins consists of a 20-amino acid motif repeated three and four times in B19.3 and B19.4, respectively, but only once in B19.1. The gene products are strongly hydrophilic, the internal 20-amino acid motif being the most hydrophilic part. This motif is found once in cotton Lea D19 but is repeated twice in cotton Lea D132, indicating that the repeats are universal among monocot and dicot B19-like genes. The B19 genes are regulated similarly during embryo development, but to very different levels. In contrast, they are differentially regulated by ABA and various types of osmotic stress. In immature embryos all three genes are responsive to ABA and mannitol. However, B19.1 is also responsive to salt. Cold stress does not induce B19 mRNAs; only a stabilization of the transcript levels is seen. These results suggest that the responses to salt stress and exogenous ABA operate through different pathways.
Sequences with strong similarity to internal control regions 1 and 2 (ICR1 and -2; A and B boxes) of tRNA genes are found at the 5' termini of the genomic RNAs of brome mosaic virus (BMV) and other plant viruses. The functionality of these motifs was studied by introducing point mutations into the ICR2-like sequence of pRNA-2 M/S, a BMV RNA-2 deletion mutant that replicates in the presence of RNAs-1 and -2 but does not encode a functional viral protein. The accumulation of positive-strand progeny from pRNAs bearing single and double base substitutions was 70 to 91% lower than that of the wild type, while the addition of single bases at position 8 of this motif reduced replication by 80%. These dramatic decreases in positive-strand synthesis paralleled decreases in transcription seen (C. Traboni, G. Ciliberto, and R. Cortese, Cell 36:179-187, 1984) from a tRNAPro gene containing similar mutations, suggesting comparable functions for the ICR regions in protein factor binding and demonstrating that a wild-type composition of the virus ICR2-like motif is required for proper RNA replication. Substitutions introduced at bases surrounding the ICR2 motif yielded levels of pRNA replication that differed, depending on the maintenance of a putative 5' stem-loop structure in the positive strand of the viral genome. Mutations disrupting this positive-strand stem-loop while maintaining the integrity of the complementary negative-strand structure reduced pRNA replication by 85 to 97%. In contrast, disruption of the negative-strand structure while maintaining the positive-strand stem-loop did not reduce pRNA replication. Similar positive-strand structures can be predicted to form from 5' sequences of cucumber mosaic virus (strain Q) and cowpea chlorotic mottle virus RNAs-1 and -2, supporting the concept that such structures comprise an integral part of virus genomic positive-strand promoters. The requirement of a stem-loop structure present on the positive-strand provided the basis for a new model describing how these sequence and structural elements act in the production of virus positive-strand RNA.
We have characterized a gene (Ltp1) encoding a barley lipid transfer protein. Northern blot analysis showed that Ltp1 mRNA accumulates specifically in the aleurone layer of developing and germinating seeds. Southern blot analysis indicated that LTP1 protein is encoded by a single gene in barley. Sequence analysis of Ltp1 showed that it contains an open reading frame of 351 bp interrupted by a single intron of 133 bp. Transient expression assays indicated that 702 bp of the 5' upstream region of Ltp1 is sufficient to direct aleurone-specific expression during late seed development and early germination.
An mRNA species, HVA1, has been shown to be rapidly induced by abscisic acid (ABA) in barley aleurone layers (Hong, Uknes and Ho, Plant Mol Biol 11: 495-506, 1988). In the current work we have investigated the expression of HVA1 in other organs of barley plants. In developing seeds, HVA1 mRNA is not detected in starchy endosperm cells, yet it accumulates in aleurone layers and embryo starting 25 days after anthesis, and its level remains high in these organs in dry seeds. Although the levels of HVA1 mRNA are equivalent in the dry embryos of dormant and nondormant barley seeds, upon imbibition HVA1 mRNA declines much slower in the dormant than in the nondormant embryos. The HVA1 mRNA and protein levels are highly induced by ABA treatment in all organs of 3-day-old seedlings. However, the induction in the leaf of 7-day-old seedlings is less than one tenth the level observed in the leaf of 3-day-old seedlings. In the leaf, HVA1 mRNA and protein are induced mainly at the base. These observations indicate that the expression of HVA1 is under developmental regulation. Besides the HVA1 protein, a smaller protein (p20) of approximately 20 kDa cross-reacting with anti-HVA1 polyclonal antibodies, is induced by ABA in barley seedlings but not in seeds. HVA1 mRNA is induced by drought, NaCl, cold or heat treatment. Similar to ABA treatment, the drought induction of HVA1 occurs in all the tissues of 3-day-old seedlings, but the induction decreases dramatically in the leaf of 7-day-old plants. The significance of organ-specific, developmentally regulated, and stress-induced expression of HVA1 is discussed.
The Amy32b gene is a representative member of a closely related family of alpha-amylase genes expressed under hormonal control in aleurone layers of barley grains. Transcription of this gene is induced by gibberellin (GA) and suppressed by abscisic acid. In this study, we functionally defined the promoter elements of the Amy32b gene that govern the developmental and hormonal control of its expression in aleurone. Two functionally distinct yet physically associated elements are essential: a gibberellin response element mediates regulation by GA and abscisic acid, and an Opaque-2 binding sequence (O2S) is thought to interact with a barley homolog of the maize endosperm-specific transcriptional regulator Opaque-2. An additional element CCTTTT, which with the O2S forms part of a canonical "endosperm box," is important in modulating the absolute level of expression of the Amy32b promoter, as is another separate, highly conserved element TATCCATGCAGTG.
Leaf thionins of several barley cultivars and wild barley species were analysed. We found large differences in the numbers of leaf thionin genes in different Hordeum species. While, for instance, cultivars of Hordeum vulgare (Section Hordeum) contain more than 50 copies of thionin genes per haploid genome, the numbers are much lower in Hordeum species belonging to the sections Critesion and Stenostachys. The apparent number of genes correlates with the concentration of leaf thionin and its mRNA, which differs more than 100-fold among various Hordeum species. Leaf thionins are synthesized as high molecular weight precursor proteins that contain a signal peptide domain, a thionin domain and an acidic polypeptide domain. Analysis of cDNA clones of leaf thionins revealed a family of related transcripts. When the predicted amino acid sequences of the precursor molecules of wild barley species were compared, differences in the sequence variability of the three domains became apparent. The frequency of amino acid exchanges is much higher within the thionin domain than in the signal peptide and acidic polypeptide domains. The amino acid exchanges within the thionin domain do not occur at random but are confined to variable regions that alternate with highly conserved areas. Conserved regions comprise mostly cysteine residues and adjacent amino acids and may be important for the correct formation of the specific disulphide configuration of thionins.
Peptide sequence data derived from a plant annexin, P34 [Smallwood, Keen & Bowles (1990) Biochem. J. 270, 157-161] was used to design amplimers for PCR. A unique fragment of 95 bp, amplified from tomato (Lycopersicon esculertum) genomic DNA, was used in Northern analyses and demonstrated a differential pattern of expression in vegetative tissues of tomato, potato (Solanum tuberosum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare). The tissue-specific abundance of the annexin transcript was found to correlate closely with abundance of annexin protein as revealed by their partial purification and analysis with antisera specific for annexins isolated from tomato suspension-culture cells.
We have developed a method for the routine isolation of protoplasts from developing starchy endosperm of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Preplasmolysis of the intact endosperms, a low concentration of hydrolytic enzymes and gravity sedimentation before any centrifugation step, were crucial factors for a good preparation. Best yields were obtained early after pollination (8-13 days) or with mutants with low starch content. Transient expression of a reporter gene under the control of the 35S promoter, after polyethyleneglycol transfection of endosperm protoplasts, was of the same order as that found in coleoptile derived protoplasts. No significant difference in expression was found for a given tissue between cv. Bomi and its mutant Risø 1508.
Plastid DNA transcription was studied during biogenesis and maturation of chloroplasts in primary foliage leaves of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seedlings grown under a daily light-dark regime. Specific age-dependent changes in the transcript pattern of plastids have been shown by hybridization to barley plastid DNA fragments of run-on transcript probes derived from homogeneous populations of proplastids and chloroplasts of different age. In proplastids, transcription of the rrn operon is predominant and the increasing transcriptional activity during biogenesis of chloroplasts is mainly the consequence of additional transcription of mRNA and tRNA genes. During maturation of chloroplasts, rrn transcription preferentially decreases and, conversely, transcription of the psbD gene increases. The importance of these changes in plastid DNA transcription is discussed in relation to chloroplast ageing.
Deoxyribonucleic-acid sequences expressed at high levels in meristematic tissues of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) have been cloned by differential hybridization. Five out of the seven cDNA clones studied showed homologies to histone genes H2a (two clones), H2b, H3 and H4. Their patterns of expression, as studied by RNA and in-situ hybridization, were typical for genes transcribed during cell division. A sixth cDNA clone, Sab2, had a 65.7% identity (on a protein basis) to L2-like ribosomal proteins of Escherichia coli and other lower prokaryotes. In a domain of 50 amino acids, the seventh clone, Sab35, showed 69.0% sequence identity to the ribosomal protein L21 of Rattus norvegicus. The Sab35 mRNA contained in its 5'-untranslated leader sequence small open reading frames, a feature pointing to a possible translational control. The Sab35 in-situ hybridization pattern was to a certain degree different from that of the histone-like clone Sab11: it detected transcripts not only in tissues that are associated with vegetative and reproductive apices but also in sub-apical regions. The visualization in situ of transcripts coded by Sab11, 35 and 44 is discussed as a possible technique for studying differential gene expression in barley meristematic tissues.
We describe a method for localizing protein domains situated at the surface of virus particles. A cDNA clone of the New York PAV isolate (NY-PAV) of barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV) containing the capsid protein gene was generated and sequenced. A defined set of overlapping cDNA fragments specific to the capsid protein ORF of NY-PAV was subcloned into the pGEX expression vectors. Cells of Escherichia coli carrying these plasmids synthesize recombinant glutathione S-transferase/capsid proteins. These proteins were used in immunoblot experiments to localize the epitopes of three PAV-BYDV-directed monoclonal antibodies to a 20 amino acid-long segment of the NY-PAV capsid protein. All three monoclonal antibodies reacted with NY-PAV virions in a triple antibody sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, indicating that their epitopes are located at the virion surface.
A 1420 bp genomic fragment (lambda-hor1-17) encompassing a Hor-1 gene encoding a C-hordein polypeptide is presented. The deduced amino acid sequence is 261 residues long. It comprises a 20 amino acid signal peptide, unique NH2- and COOH-terminal regions and a coding region comprised of pentapeptide (PQQPY) and octapeptide (PQQPFPQQ) repeat motifs. The 431 bp of 5' non-coding region contains a 'TATA box' at -105, a 'CACA box' (-181 to -201) and a -300 prolamin element. In the 3' non-coding region there are two putative polyadenylation signals located 88 and 142 bp downstream of the stop codon. The structure of lambda-hor1-17 is compared with that of another gene (lambda-hor1-14) encoding a C-hordein polypeptide, which contains an amber codon interrupting the ORF. A functional assay in which the 5' non-coding regions of the two genes were fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene demonstrated that both genes were transcriptionally active and that circa 430 bp of the C-hordein promoters were sufficient to drive the expression of the GUS gene in developing barley endosperms. It also demonstrated that both promoters had transcriptional efficiencies comparable with that of the 35S CaMV promoter. The in vitro translation of the coding region of lambda-hor1-14 in the wheat germ system showed that the premature stop codon could be partially suppressed. The suppression was also demonstrated in a transient expression assay in vivo using isolated barley endosperms.
Long-term cultures of four different cultivars of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) have been established. Both callus and suspension cultures formed embryogenic structures at high frequency even after more than 18 months of culture. These compact proembryogenic cell clusters synthesize seed storage globulins whereas loose cell aggregates in callus culture and suspension cultures of fine dispersed consistency were free of globulins. Globulin synthesis was especially intense in compact structures of callus cultures established from suspension culture-derived protoplasts. Within the cells storage globulins are deposited in the vacuolar compartment as in zygotic embryos. The molecular data provided recommend the system for studies on factors determining seed protein gene expression and intracellular protein transport.
Activation of plastid DNA synthesis occurred early in barley leaf chloroplast development. High rates of DNA synthesis were observed in the leaf basal meristem of dark-grown plants where plastid transcription activity was low. DNA synthesis activity decreased in later stages of chloroplast development. Plastid nuclei acid-binding proteins were detected after lithium dodecylsulfate (LDS)-polyacrylamide gel separation and renaturation. One set of nucleic acid-binding proteins was associated with plastid nucleoids. A second set of nucleic acid-binding proteins co-sedimented with ribosomes and most probably corresponds to ribosomal proteins. Changes in the composition of the nucleic acid-binding proteins were characterized as a function of chloroplast development in dark-grown and illuminated barley plants.
Delivery of DNA into intact cells of the developing barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) endosperm was performed with the BIOLISTIC particle gun. It is shown that the proximal 532 base pairs (bp) of the upstream region of a B1-hordein gene drive the expression of the β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene (uidA) in sub-aleurone and starchy-endosperm cells but not in cells devoid of starch, i.e. developing aleurone cells. The 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus was active in all three cell types. This cell-specific activity of the hordein promoter was verified by a detailed histological study of the regions of the extruded endosperms expressing the uidA gene. The analysis included a histological study of the developing endosperm as a base for classifying the different cell types in the developing endosperm.
Acyl carrier protein (ACP) is an essential cofactor for plant fatty acid synthesis. Three isoforms occur in barley seedling leaves. The genes Acl1 and Acl3 coding for the predominant ACP I and the minor ACP III, respectively, have been cloned and characterized as has a full-length cDNA for ACP III. Both genes, extending over more than 2.5 kb, have a conserved mosaic structure of four exons and three introns which result in mRNAs of ca. 900 bases. Alignment of the DNA sequences demonstrates that homology is restricted to the two exons coding for the mature protein whereas the remaining segments of the genes including the transit peptide-coding domains lack homology. Southern blot analyses demonstrate that Acl1 and Acl3 represent single copy genes located on chromosomes 7 and 1, respectively. Primer extension analyses identified multiple transcription start sites in both genes. The promoter regions are remarkably different; that of Acl3 resembles those for mammalian housekeeping genes in having a high G + C content plus three copies of an RNA polymerase II recognition GC element and in lacking correctly positioned TATA boxes. These features are in accordance with the hypothesis that Acl1 is specifically expressed in leaf tissue whereas Acl3 is a constitutively expressed gene.
The nucleotide sequence and derived amino acid sequence of a cDNA clone (BLT4) for a low temperature induced barley gene were determined. This gene, together with a small family of related genes, was shown to reside on chromosome 3. The BLT4 clone has homology with genes in wheat and oats. Its expression was studied in oats and in barley doubled haploid lines segregating for spring/winter habit and for frost hardiness. These analyses show that elevated steady state levels of BLT4 mRNA are produced in shoot meristematic tissue after 3 days low positive temperature treatment. The low temperature response was found in all barley doubled haploid lines and was therefore not associated specifically with either the spring/winter habit or frost hardiness. Elevated levels of BLT4 mRNA were also seen in drought-stressed barley and it is likely that this is a gene encoding a low molecular weight protein that is responsive to dehydrative stresses, such as cold and drought.
RbcL and rbcS mRNA levels and plastid transcription activity are low in the basal meristematic region of barley primary leaves and increase coordinately during leaf cell development with a similar time course in dark-grown or illuminated seedlings. The capacity of light to cause cab mRNA accumulation shows a similar dependence on leaf cell development. These results indicate that the initial activation of chloroplast gene expression and the expression of some nuclear genes encoding plastid proteins are coupled to leaf cell development. RbcL and rbcS mRNA levels and plastid transcription activity decline in older leaf sections of dark-grown or illuminated barley. The decreases in plastid transcription and rbcS and rbcL mRNA levels in older dark-grown seedlings could be reversed by plant illumination. Therefore, while the initial activation of plastid transcription and accumulation of rbcS mRNA are largely light-independent, these events become light-dependent in older leaves of dark-grown barley. If the initial increase in plastid transcription which occurs early in leaf cell development is prevented by tagetitoxin, a specific inhibitor of the plastid RNA polymerase, rbcS mRNA does not accumulate and cab mRNA accumulation cannot be induced by light. The effect of tagetitoxin is selective because this compound does not inhibit barley leaf growth, or the normal accumulation of nuclear-encoded actin and BN3 transcripts and plastid DNA which occurs during chloroplast development. Furthermore, a barley pigment-deficient mutant, alb-f17, and plants containing photo-oxidized plastids show parallel reductions in plastid transcription activity and levels of rbcS and cab mRNA. This suggests that the activation of plastid transcription during the early stages of chloroplast biogenesis is necessary for the expression of rbcS and cab.
Southern analysis of DNA from four albino barley plants regenerated from microspores by direct embryogenesis revealed the presence of plastid genomes which had undergone deletion or alteration of specific restriction fragments (delta ptDNAs). In contrast, a fifth plant appeared to contain an intact plastid genome. All the albino plants studied contained reduced amounts of ptDNA, the most abundant restriction fragments being present at levels between 6% and 20% of those found in the leaves of green seedlings. Steady-state levels of transcripts from plastid and nuclear genes encoding plastid components were estimated by Northern analysis of RNA from albino plants. Transcripts from the plastid genes rbcL, psbD-psbC and the 16S and 23S rRNAs were undetectable or were present at greatly reduced levels in albino plants compared to those found in green leaves. Transcripts from the nuclear genes rbcS and cab, which encode chloroplast localised proteins, were also present at reduced levels in albino pollen plants. Levels of the nuclear encoded 25S rRNA, which is not a plastid component, were found to be identical in albino plants and green leaves suggesting that only the expression of plastid-related genes may be affected in albino plants. The general reduction of plastid-related transcripts was independent of the different patterns of ptDNA alteration seen in albino pollen plants.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) has both NADH-specific and NAD(P)H-bispecific nitrate reductases. Genomic and cDNA clones of the NADH nitrate reductase have been sequenced. In this study, a genomic clone (pMJ4.1) of a second type of nitrate reductase was isolated from barley by homology to a partial-length NADH nitrate reductase cDNA and the sequence determined. The open reading frame encodes a polypeptide of 891 amino acids and its interrupted by two small introns. The deduced amino acid sequence has 70% identity to the barley NADH-specific nitrate reductase. The non-coding regions of the pMJ4.1 gene have low homology (ca. 40%) to the corresponding regions of the NADH nitrate reductase gene. Expression of the pMJ4.1 nitrate reductase gene is induced by nitrate in root tissues which corresponds to the induction of NAD(P)H nitrate reductase activity. The pMJ4.1 nitrate reductase gene is sufficiently different from all previously reported higher plant nitrate reductase genes to suggest that it encodes the barley NAD(P)H-bispecific nitrate reductase.
Ubiquitin is ubiquitous in all eukaryotes and its amino acid sequence shows extreme conservation. Ubiquitin genes comprise direct repeats of the ubiquitin coding unit with no spacers. The nucleotide sequences coding for 13 ubiquitin genes from 11 species reported so far have been compiled and analyzed. The G + C content of codon third base reveals a positive linear correlation with the genome G + C content of the corresponding species. The slope strongly suggests that the overall G + C content of codons of polyubiquitin genes clearly reflects the genome G + C content by AT/GC substitutions at the codon third position. The G + C content of ubiquitin codon third base also shows a positive linear correlation with the overall G + C content of coding regions of compiled genes, indicating the codon choices among synonymous codons reflect the average codon usage pattern of corresponding species. On the other hand, the monoubiquitin gene, which is different from the polyubiquitin gene in gene organization, gene expression, and function of the encoding protein, shows a different codon usage pattern compared with that of the polyubiquitin gene. From comparisons of the levels of synonymous substitutions among ubiquitin repeats and the homology of the amino acid sequence of the tail of monomeric ubiquitin genes, we propose that the molecular evolution of ubiquitin genes occurred as follows: Plural primitive ubiquitin sequences were dispersed on genome in ancestral eukaryotes. Some of them situated in a particular environment fused with the tail sequence to produce monomeric ubiquitin genes that were maintained across species. After divergence of species, polyubiquitin genes were formed by duplication of the other primitive ubiquitin sequences on different chromosomes. Differences in the environments in which ubiquitin genes are embedded reflect the differences in codon choice and in gene expression pattern between poly- and monomeric ubiquitin genes.
Photosynthetic reaction center protein D1 contains five membrane-spanning alpha-helices which form binding sites for pheophytin, chlorophyll, carotenoids, quinone, Fe2+, and probably Mn2+. D1 translation intermediates of 15 to 28 kD were detected when isolated chloroplasts were pulse-labeled with [35S]methionine. The D1 translation intermediates were associated with membrane polysomes and can be chased into full length D1. The sites of translation pausing were determined by mapping the distribution of ribosomes on D1 mRNA using toeprint analysis. Clusters of toeprint signals were generated by D1 mRNA associated with membranes but not by D1 mRNA in nonpolysomal fractions of the soluble phase or phenol-extracted mRNA. The distribution of ribosomes on D1 mRNA determined by toeprint analysis was consistent with D1 translation intermediates observed with pulse-labeling. Ribosome pausing may facilitate co-translational binding of co-factors such as chlorophyll to D1 and aid the integration of D1 into thylakoid membranes.
We have used a transient expression assay in aleurone protoplasts of barley to delineate hormone response elements of the abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive rice gene Rab16A and of the gibberellin A3 (GA3)-responsive barley alpha-amylase gene Amy 1/6-4. Our approach used transcriptional fusions between their 5' upstream sequences and a bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene. A chimeric promoter containing six copies of the -181 to -171 region of Rab 16A fused to a minimal promoter conferred ABA-responsive expression on the reporter gene. Transcription from this ABA response element (GTACGTGGCGC) was unaffected by GA3. A chimeric promoter containing six copies of the -148 to -128 sequence of Amy 1/6-4 fused to the minimal promoter conferred GA3-responsive expression on the reporter gene. Transcription from this GA3 response element (GGCCGATAACAAACTCCGGCC) was repressed by ABA. The effect on transcription from both hormone response elements was orientation-independent, indicating that they function as inducible enhancers in their native genes.
Two genes encode Rbu-P2-carboxylase activase in barley (RcaA and RcaB): RcaA encodes polypeptides of 46 and 42 kDa, which are generated by the alternatively spliced RcaA1 and RcaA2 mRNAs, respectively; RcaB encodes a 42-kDa polypeptide (Rundle, S. J., and Zielinski, R. E. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 4677-4685). In the cellular differentiation gradient of the first leaf of barley, the three Rca mRNAs accumulate differentially. RcaA1 and A2 mRNAs accumulate predominantly in the mature, most photosynthetically active regions of the leaf in a pattern that parallels accumulation of total Rbu-P2-carboxylase activase protein. However, the kinetics of accumulation of RcaA1 and RcaA2 mRNA differ slightly, indicating that either changes in RcaA pre-mRNA splicing or mRNA turnover occur during development. RcaB mRNA, in contrast, accumulates in the youngest and oldest cell populations at the base and tip of the leaf, respectively. In the mid-region of the leaf, the difference in accumulation between RcaA and RcaB mRNAs is largely attributable to differences in the rates of transcription of the two Rca genes. In this region of the leaf, the three Rca mRNAs accumulate differentially throughout the course of the diurnal cycle. Steady state levels of the three Rca mRNA species increase in parallel in response to increasing irradiance; these changes were accompanied by increased Rbu-P2-carboxylase activase protein accumulation.
The nuclear gene mutant chlorina-(104) of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) is chlorophyll-deficient when grown under high irradiance, particularly at low temperatures. Chlorina- (104) chloroplasts had fewer thylakoids than the wild type, and fewer appressed lamellae relative to non-appressed lamellae. The freeze-fracture ultrastructure showed a loss of particles from the protoplasmic fracture face of the stacked thylakoid region (PFs), consistent with the loss of most of the light-harvesting complex (LHC) II, and a loss of some of the large particles from the same face of the unstacked thylakoid region (PFu), indicating a loss of photosystem-I particles. The mutant is remarkable for the high density of particles on the exoplasmic fracture face of the unstacked thylakoid region (EFu), levels of which fell to normal after transfer to low light. The chlorophyll deficiency was shown to be primarily caused by the loss of LHCII and LHCI-680, with the consequent loss of much of the chlorophyll (Chl) b and the xanthophylls neoxanthin and lutein. The use of a monoclonal antibody which recognises the 23-kDa polypeptide of LHCI-680, confirmed that it was severely depleted in chloroplasts from chlorina-(104) grown under restrictive conditions. The 77 K fluorescence emission spectrum was characterised by a pronounced shoulder at 720 nm, arising from the photosystem-I reaction centre (CPI). Since fluorescence from CPI is normally quenched by LHCI-730, this indicates that LHCI-680 mediates excitation energy transfer between LHCI-730 and the reaction centre. After moving seedlings to permissive conditions, LHCII and LHCI-680 began to accumulate in the chlorotic leaves and the fluorescence emission spectrum resembled that of wild-type leaves. Measurement of the steady-state mRNA levels with specific Cab probes, showed no difference between wild type and mutant, indicating that control of LHCII and LHCI-680 accumulation was at a post-transcriptional level.
As a direct approach to elucidate the molecular biology of barley aleurone cell development, we differentially screened an aleurone cDNA library made from poly(A)+ RNA of immature grains for clones representing transcripts present in the aleurone but not in the starchy endosperm. For one of these clones, B22E, which hybridies to a 0.7 kb transcript, Northern and in situ hybridization revealed that expression is under complex spatial, temporal and hormonal control in barley grains. cDNAs corresponding to B22E transcripts were isolated from aleurone/pericarp and embryo of developing grains, and from germinating scutella. Among these were the nearly full-length aleurone/pericarp clone pB22E.a16 (541 bp). cDNAs matching the sequence of this clone (type 1 transcript) were found for all tissues investigated. In addition, cDNAs with an extra 12 bp insertion (type 2 transcript) were obtained from germinating scutella. The two different transcripts can encode novel barley proteins of 115 and 119 amino acids, respectively. A gene designated B22EL8 was isolated and sequenced; it encodes the type 1 B22E transcript and contains two introns of 145 and 125 bp. Particle bombardment of barley aleurone with a B22EL8 promoter-GUS (beta-glucuronidase) construct demonstrates that the promoter (3 kb) is active in developing barley grains. The promoter is not, however, active in the seeds of tobacco plants transgenic for the B22EL8 gene, indicating the existence of sequences specific for monocots. A comparison of 1.4 kb of upstream sequence of B22E with the maize c1 promoter reveals a number of short, identical sequences which may be responsible for aleurone cell-specific gene transcription.
Barley nitrate reductase cDNA and genomic clones were isolated by homology with the barley nitrate reductase cDNA clone bNRp10 and sequenced. This is the first reported analysis of a full-length nitrate reductase gene and its corresponding cDNA in the same species. The longest cDNA clone extends to within 9 bp of the ATG start codon and the sequence is similar to that reported for the higher plant NR sequences. As expected, the amino acid sequence of barley nitrate reductase is more related closely to the rice (84% homology) than to the Arabidopsis (62%) sequence. Four different polyA addition sites were identified from sequence analysis of nine barley NR cDNA clones. A 7.3 kb region of a genomic recombinant lambda clone was subcloned as two contiguous BamHI fragments into p Bluescript, designated pMJ7 and pMJ8, and sequenced. These clones include the entire nitrate reductase coding region, one large intron, 2.7 kb of untranslated sequence 5' to the translation start codon and 0.25 kb 3' to the translation termination codon. The mRNA cap site was identified as a cytosine, 111 bases upstream of the ATG translation start codon. The putative CAAT and TATA boxes were identified at -115 and -33 bp, respectively, with the mRNA cap site designated as +1. The barley nitrate reductase gene coding region strongly favors G or C in the third codon position.
Brome mosaic virus (BMV) genomic RNA2 encodes the 94-kDa 2a protein, which is one of two BMV nonstructural proteins required for RNA replication and subgenomic mRNA transcription. 2a contains a central polymeraselike region, which has extensive sequence similarity with the Sindbis virus nsP4 and tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) 183-kDa replication proteins, and also contains N- and C-terminal flanking segments without counterparts in the Sindbis virus and TMV nonstructural proteins. To further investigate the roles of the central and flanking segments in 2a, we have constructed a series of deletion and frameshift mutants in a biologically active BMV RNA2 cDNA clone and tested their ability to support viral RNA replication in barley protoplasts and systemic infection in whole barley plants. The entire 125-amino-acid C-terminal segment following the polymeraselike region was dispensable for RNA replication and transcription. Within the 200-amino-acid N-terminal flanking segment, deletion of the first 50 residues dramatically reduced genomic and subgenomic RNA accumulation, and deletion of 100 or more residues abolished detectable RNA synthesis. All mutations removing residues from the central polymeraselike domain also blocked RNA replication in trans. Sequences required in cis for RNA2 replication or stability were found to occur within the first 300 nucleotides of the 2a coding region. In whole barley plants, systemic infection was inhibited even by 2a deletions that supported strong RNA replication in protoplasts. Some replication-competent 2a variants failed to spread to uninoculated leaves, while other showed 10- to 500-fold-reduced virus yield in both inoculated and uninoculated leaves. These reductions were not due to any defects in RNA2 encapsidation.
Transfection of barley protoplasts with brome mosaic virus (BMV) RNAs 1 + 2 in the absence of RNA-3 yielded a molar ratio for (+):(-)-strand progeny at 24 hr postinoculation near unity, whereas over 100-fold more (+)- than (-)-strand progeny accumulated in its presence. The presence of RNA-3 enhanced total (+)-strand RNA production 205-fold and that of RNAs 1 + 2 by 29-fold. In contrast, total (-)-strand RNA accumulation decreased by 68% and that for (-)RNAs 1 + 2 by 79% in the presence of RNA-3. Transfections containing an RNA-3 mutant (Gsgi----U RNA-3) that is incapable of yielding RNA-4 as a result of a single nucleotide substitution at the subgenomic RNA initiation site yielded only 66% of the (+):(-) asymmetry seen in the presence of wild-type RNA-3. Only 1.8-fold excess of (+)-over (-)-strand production was obtained for transfections that included delta SGP RNA-3, a deletion that includes the subgenomic promoter core and extends 43 nt into the RNA-4 sequence. Transfections containing RNA-3 mutants bearing frameshifts or deletions in the coat protein cistron yielded levels of asymmetry similar to those seen for Gsgi----U RNA-3. These findings implicate the subgenomic promoter and other sequences in the intercistronic region of RNA-3 as the primary determinants of asymmetric replication, although the coat protein may be an additional factor enhancing the accumulation of (+)-strand RNA.
The amino acid sequences of two barley ribosomal proteins, termed HvL17-1 and HvL17-2, were decoded from green leaf cDNA clones. The N-terminal sequences of the derived barley proteins are 48% identical to the N-terminal amino acid sequence of protein YL17 from the large subunit of yeast cytoplasmic ribosomes. Via archaebacterial ribosomal proteins this homology extends to ribosomal protein L22 from eubacteria and chloroplast. Barley L17, and ribosomal proteins L22 and L23 from the archaebacteria Halobacterium halobium and H. marismortui, are 25-33% identical. Interestingly, the barley and archaebacterial proteins share a long, central stretch of amino acids, which is absent in the corresponding proteins from eubacteria and chloroplasts. Barley L17 proteins are encoded by a small gene family with probably only two members, represented by the cDNA clones encoding HvL17-1 and HvL17-2. Both these genes are active in green leaf cells. The expression of the L17 genes in different parts of the 7-day old barley seedlings was analyzed by semiquantitative hybridization. The level of L17 mRNA is high in meristematic and young cells found in the leaf base and root tip. In the leaf, the L17 mRNA level rapidly decreases with increasing cell age, and in older root cells this mRNA is undetectable.
Steady-state levels of mRNA from individual alpha-amylase genes were measured in the embryo and aleurone tissues of rice (Oryza sativa) and two varieties of barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Himalaya and cv. Klages) during germination. Each member of the alpha-amylase multigene families of rice and barley was differentially expressed in each tissue. In rice, alpha-amylase genes displayed tissue-specific expression in which genes RAmy3B, RAmy3C, and RAmy3E were preferentially expressed in the aleurone layer, genes RAmy1A, RAmy1B and RAmy3D were expressed in both the embryo and aleurone, and genes RAmy3A and RAmy2A were not expressed in either tissue. Whenever two or more genes were expressed in any tissue, the rate of mRNA accumulation from each gene was unique. In contrast to rice, barley alpha-amylase gene expression was not tissue-specific. Messenger RNAs encoding low- and high-pI alpha-amylase isozymes were detectable in both the embryo and aleurone and accumulated at different rates in each tissue. In particular, peak levels of mRNA encoding high-pI alpha-amylases always preceded those encoding low-pI alpha-amylases. Two distinct differences in alpha-amylase gene expression were observed between the two barley varieties. Levels of high-pI alpha-amylase mRNA peaked two days earlier in Klages embryos than in Himalaya embryos. Throughout six days of germination, Klages produced three times as much high-pI alpha-amylase mRNA and nearly four times as much low-pI alpha-amylase mRNA than the slower-germinating Himalaya variety.
In most higher plants a period of desiccation is the terminal event in embryogenesis. Excised barley embryos acquire desiccation tolerance at a precise developmental stage and cDNA clones have been isolated which are temporally linked with desiccation tolerance. One such clone (pG22-69) with a putative gene product of 34 kd displays high structural homology to mammalian genes encoding an NADPH dependent aldose reductase involved in the synthesis of sorbitol. This first aldose reductase gene of plants is expressed constitutively during embryo maturation and is modulated by the plant hormones abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellic acid (GA). Immunohistochemistry showed that the protein is preferentially expressed in tissues formed at early stages in embryogenesis. Measurements of enzymatic activity indicate that pG22-69 encodes an active aldose reductase. The finding of this reductase activity and the cloning of the corresponding gene supports the existence of a metabolic pathway in plants playing a role in the synthesis of osmolytes like sorbitol. The significance of this work is that genes of related structure and functions are being used in diverse organisms to fulfil stress related biological requirements.
Photosystem I in barley contains a polypeptide with an apparent molecular mass of 14 kDa. The polypeptide is N-terminally blocked to amino acid sequencing, but partial amino acid sequences have been determined from three fragments obtained by chemical and enzymatic cleavage. Using an oligonucleotide probe specifying this amino acid sequence, a full length cDNA clone was isolated. The deduced amino acid sequence does not correspond to any previously identified photosystem I subunit. We designate the novel photosystem I subunit PSI-L and the corresponding nuclear gene PsaL. The cDNA clone encodes a precursor polypeptide of 209 amino acid residues with a deduced molecular mass of 22,210 Da. The precursor has a transit peptide typical of proteins imported into chloroplasts. Based on a putative maturation site, the deduced molecular mass of the mature protein is 18 kDa. The PSI-L polypeptide is hydrophobic and predicted to have at least two membrane-spanning alpha-helices. Northern blot analysis shows that the expression of the PsaL gene is light-induced similar to other of the barley photosystem I genes. Southern blot analysis indicates that PsaL is a single copy gene. Partial amino acid sequences of an N-terminally blocked 9-kDa polypeptide show high sequence similarity to the PSI-G polypeptide of spinach and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. The gene product of PsaG in spinach has previously been assigned as subunit V (Steppuhn, J., Hermans, J., Nechushtai, R., Ljungberg, U., Thümmler, F., Lottspeich, F., and Herrmann, R. G. (1988) FEBS Lett. 237, 218-224). The present study suggests that PSI-L is equivalent to subunit V and that PSI-G is a subunit migrating closely to PSI-H (subunit VI) and PSI-C (subunit VII).
The complete nucleotide sequence of RNA 2 of a German isolate of barley yellow mosaic virus (BaYMV) has been determined. The RNA is 3585 nucleotides in length excluding a 3'-terminal poly(A) tail. The viral plus and minus strands in all three reading frames contained only one large open reading frame which started at positions 156 to 158 and terminated with a UAG codon at positions 2828 to 2830, thus encoding an Mr 98,000 polypeptide. Comparisons with sequences of other viruses revealed that the amino terminus of the polypeptide has homology with the proteolytic domain of the helper component proteinase of several potyviruses. It was determined that the 98K protein is a polyprotein composed of an amino-terminal 28K protein and a 70K protein.
Primer extension was used to characterize alpha-amylase mRNAs from aleurone tissue of barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Himalaya) grains. Two synthetic oligonucleotides, specific for the low-pI and high-pI alpha-amylase groups, were used as primers for synthesis of cDNA from total RNA preparations. Between them, these two oligonucleotides appear to account for all major alpha-amylase mRNAs as judged by hybrid-arrested translation of alpha-amylase mRNAs in a cell-free system. Reconstruction experiments indicated that the levels of extended primers (determined by scintillation counting) were directly proportional to the level of input mRNA over a wide range. This indicates that the technique is suitable for quantification of relative levels of individual alpha-amylase from approximately 2% to 100% of maximal levels. The nucleotide sequences of extended primers defined two different alpha-amylase mRNAs in each of the low-pI and high-pI groups, and possibly a third mRNA in the high-pI group.
Gibberellic acid (GA3) and abscisic acid (ABA) control the transcription of alpha-amylase genes in barley aleurone cells. This control is likely to be exerted through cis-acting hormone-responsive elements in the promoter region of the gene. In order to further define these elements, we have developed procedures for obtaining transient expression of chimaeric genes in protoplasts prepared from mature barley aleurone layers. Constructs with heterologous constitutive promoters and with heterologous and homologous GA3- and ABA-regulated promoters were expressed specifically by these cells. This system would appear to offer great potential in gene regulation studies especially for hormonally regulated homologous genes. Functional analysis of a barley alpha-amylase gene has been performed using this system. A 2050 bp fragment from a high-pI alpha-amylase gene was fused to a reporter gene (GUS) and control of its expression was examined. Deletion analysis of this promoter fragment showed that major GA- and ABA-responsive elements occurred between 174 and 41 bp upstream from the transcription initiation site.
A cDNA encoding the NADPH-protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase (Pchlide reductase) of Arabidopsis thaliana has been isolated and sequenced. The cDNA contains the complete reading frame for the precursor of the Pchlide reductase. The deduced amino acid sequence of the Arabidopsis enzyme closely resembles the corresponding sequences of barley and oat. The cDNA has been used as a template for the synthesis of the enzyme protein in Escherichia coli. An antiserum was raised against this enzyme protein and both the antiserum and the cDNA were used as experimental tools to study the effects of light on the Pchlide reductase in A. thaliana. When etiolated seedlings of Arabidopsis were exposed to light the enzyme activity and the concentration of the enzyme protein rapidly declined. Similar light effects have been described previously for other angiosperms. In contrast to most of these species, however, in Arabidopsis only minor changes in Pchlide reductase mRNA content could be observed when etiolated seedlings were exposed to light.
We have isolated and structurally characterized genomic DNA and cDNA sequences encoding ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rbu-P2 carboxylase) activase from barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Three Rbu-P2 carboxylase activase (Rca) polypeptides are encoded in the barley genome by two closely linked, tandemly oriented nuclear genes (RcaA and RcaB); cDNAs encoding each of the three Rbu-P2 carboxylase activase polypeptides were isolated from cDNA libraries of barley leaf mRNA. RcaA produces two mRNAs, which encode polypeptides of 42 and 46 kDa, by an alternative splicing mechanism identical to that previously reported for spinach and Arabidopsis Rca genes (Werneke, J.M., Chatfield, J.M., and Ogren, W. L. (1989) Plant Cell 1, 815-825). RcaB is transcribed to produce a single mRNA, which encodes a mature peptide of 42 kDa. Genomic Southern blots indicate that RcaA and RcaB represent the entire Rbu-P2 carboxylase activase gene family in barley. The genes share 80% nucleotide sequence identity, and the 42-kDa polypeptides encoded by RcaA and RcaB share 87% amino acid sequence identity. Coding regions of the two barley Rca genes are separated by 1 kilobase pair of flanking DNA. DNA sequence motifs similar to those thought to control light-regulated gene expression in other nuclear-encoded plastid polypeptide genes are found at the 5' end of both barley Rca genes. Probes specific to three mRNAs were used to determine the relative contribution each species makes to the total Rca mRNA pool.
Protoplasts were prepared from barley aleurone layers using 'Onozuka' cellulase digestion and purification through a Percoll gradient. Protoplasts prepared by this procedure had a viability ranging from 60% to 80% during the first two days of culture. They were responsive to gibberellic acid (GA) as measured by the stimulation of alpha-amylase synthesis. The GA stimulation was counteracted by abscisic acid (ABA). In the presence of polyethylene glycol (PEG), the protoplasts took up exogenously added plasmid DNA containing the reporter gene coding for chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) linked to a 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) or to barley alpha-amylase gene promoters and expressed CAT activity. Therefore, barley aleurone layer protoplasts are suitable for analysis of hormone-responsive elements in hydrolase genes.
A full-length cDNA clone of barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV-PAV serotype) has been constructed and fused to the bacteriophage T7 RNA polymerase promoter. RNA transcripts produced in vitro, either capped or uncapped, were infectious in Triticum monococcum protoplasts. Protoplasts inoculated with in vitro-transcribed BYDV RNA accumulated coat protein, synthesized new viral RNAs, and produced virus particles. Aphid feeding on extracts from protoplasts inoculated with in vitro RNA transcripts can be used to transfer the virus progeny to whole plants. Introduction of mutations which interrupt specific BYDV-PAV open reading frames (ORFs) V and VI eliminated infectivity while an ORF I-mutant remained infectious. Infectious RNA transcripts derived from BYDV cDNA clones will facilitate analysis of the molecular aspects of BYDV infection and further enhance our understanding of this economically important virus.
The tRNA-like domain present at the 3' end of each of the three genomic RNAs of brome mosaic virus (BMV) encompasses the (-)-strand promoter essential for replication. The replicative competence of two BMV RNA-2 transcripts bearing mutations delta 5' and 5'AGA in the tRNA-like domain (previously shown by in vitro assays to be deficient in tyrosylation) was evaluated in barley protoplasts. Transfection of protoplasts with low (2 micrograms) amounts of delta 5'RNA-2, together with transcripts of wild-type RNA-1 and -3, not only incapacitated the replication of RNA-2 but also significantly interfered in trans with the synthesis and accumulation of the other viral RNAs. In contrast, RNA-2 mutants bearing either 5'AGA or M4 (a mutation yielding enhanced minus-strand replication activity in vitro) were inhibitory to viral replication only when present at a relatively high level (12 micrograms). Coinoculation of protoplasts with high levels (12 micrograms) of each of the three RNA-2 mutants and transcripts corresponding to wild-type RNA-1, -2 and -3 (2 micrograms each) revealed that the mutants were capable of competing in trans, resulting in greatly reduced accumulation of the viral RNA and suggesting that their expression from constitutive promoters in transgenic plants may provide protection against viral infection.
A 3133-bp nucleotide sequence of the gene Paz1 on chromosome 4 of barley, encoding endosperm protein Z4, has been determined. The sequence includes 1079 bp 5' upstream and 523 bp 3' downstream of the coding region. The 1079-bp 5' upstream region of the gene shows little similarity to 5' regions of other sequences genes expressed in the developing cereal endosperm. The coding sequence is interrupted by one 334-bp-long intron (bases 1497-1830). The deduced amino acid sequence, which was corroborated by peptide sequences, consists of 399 amino acids and has a molecular mass of 43,128 Da. This sequence confirms protein Z4 to be a member of the serpin superfamily of proteins. The similarity with other members of the family expressed as amino acids in identical positions is in the order of 25-30% and pronounced in the carboxy-terminal half of the molecule. Sequence residues assumed to form clusters stabilizing the tertiary structure are highly conserved. Protein Z4 is synthesized in the developing endosperm without a signal peptide and protein Z4 mRNA was evenly distributed among the free and membrane-bound polyribosomes of the endosperm cell. An internal hydrophobic region of 21 amino acids (residues 36-56) may serve as a signal for targeting the polypeptide into the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum. The gene for protein Z4 could not be detected in the barley variety Maskin and some of its descendants. The 'high-lysine' allees, lys1 (Hiproly barley) and lys3a (Bomi mutant 1508) on chromosome 7, enhance and repress, respectively, the expression of the protein Z4 gene. Also, 1554 bp of another 8-kbp fragment of the barley genome Paz psi, similar to the protein-Z4-coding region, have been determined. Small insertions and deletions and the presence of an internal stop codon identify this fragment as part of a pseudogene related to the protein Z4 gene.
A new sulfur-rich and basic polypeptide, designated as gamma-hordothionin, has been isolated from barley endosperm by a semi-preparative purification consisting of extraction with a volatile salt solution followed by high-performance liquid chromatography using a reversed-phase C4 column. The isolated polypeptide was found to be homogeneous by micro-two-dimensional gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate. The complete primary structure of gamma-hordothionin was determined by automatic degradation of the intact, S-carboxymethylated and S-pyridylethylated gamma-hordothionin and fragments obtained by proteolytic cleavage. gamma-Hordothionin consists of a single polypeptide chain of 47 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 5250 Da and contains four disulfide bridges. gamma-Hordothionin inhibits translation in cell-free systems derived from mammalian (rabbit reticulocyte, mouse liver) as well as non-mammalian (Artemia embryo) cells, at several levels. At low concentrations (1-10 microM) the protein seems to affect mainly the polypeptide-chain-initiation process, although it might also act at the elongation level. At higher concentrations (20-80 microM) this inhibitor induces activation of an eukaryotic polypeptide-chain initiation factor 2 alpha-subunit (eIF-2 alpha) kinase in hemin-supplemented reticulocyte lysates, as does hemin deficiency. The presence of the disulfide bridges in gamma-hordothionin appears to be essential for the eIF-2 alpha kinase activation. Based on its similarity at both the structural and functional level with the different genetic variants of thionins (alpha and beta-thionins, from wheat and barley), gamma-hordothionin is a putative member of the thionin family.
Two genes encode (1----3, 1----4)-beta-glucan 4-glucanohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.73) isoenzymes in barley. A gene for isoenzyme EI has been isolated from a barley genomic library and the nucleotide sequence of a 4643 bp fragment determined. The gene is located on barley chromosome 5 while the gene for (1----3, 1----4)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme EII is carried on chromosome 1. The isoenzyme EI gene contains a single 2514 bp intron that is inserted in codon 25 of a sequence encoding a signal peptide of 28 amino acids. The coding region of the mature enzyme is characterized by a high G+C content, which results from an extreme bias towards the use of these nucleotides in the wobble base position of codons. Determination of the nucleotide sequence of the gene has enabled the complete primary structure of the enzyme to be deduced: isoenzyme EI shows 92% positional identity with the primary sequence of (1----3, 1----4)-beta-glucanase isoenzyme EII at both the nucleotide and amino acid level. However, the nucleotide sequences of the two genes diverge markedly in their 3' untranslated regions. Expression sites of the two genes were defined by Northern analysis using oligonucleotide probes specific for these 3' untranslated regions and by amplifying specific cDNAs through the polymerase chain reaction. In the tissues examined, transcription of the isoenzyme EII gene is restricted to the aleurone layer of germinated grain. In contrast, the gene for isoenzyme EI is transcribed at relatively high levels in young leaves, but also in the scutellum and aleurone of germinated grain.
The synthesis of reaction center protein D2 and mRNAs which encode this protein are differentially maintained at high levels in mature barley chloroplasts. To understand the differential maintenance of psbD mRNA abundance, we have studied the transcription and the RNAs produced from the psbD-psbC operon in plastids of light and dark-grown barley seedlings. Ten psbD-psbC RNAs synthesized in dark-grown barley share four different 5'-ends, two of which arise by transcription initiation, and one of which is generated by 5'-processing of longer psbD-psbC transcripts. Illumination of dark-grown barley causes the decline of these ten transcripts, and the accumulation of two different psbD-psbC RNAs. Capping assays, in vitro transcription and RNA processing experiments and treatment of plants with tagetitoxin (a selective inhibitor of chloroplast transcription), indicate that the light-induced transcripts arise by transcription initiation. Run-on transcription and RNA quantitation experiments provide evidence that both light-induced transcription and RNA stability play roles in the accumulation of the light-induced RNAs. These data document a novel mechanism for regulating plastid gene expression involving a light-induced switch in psbD-psbC promoter utilization.
Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV), the type member of the hordeivirus group, has a plus-stranded genome comprising RNA species designated alpha, beta, and gamma. Although RNA beta is essential for infection of whole plants, it is dispensable for infection of barley protoplasts. We have used a full-length cDNA clone of RNA beta from which infectious in vitro transcripts can be derived to construct a number of mutations in its four genes. Mutations introduced into the beta b, beta c, or beta d genes eliminated infectivity of the RNA. The coat protein and the RNA sequences encoding the coat protein were completely dispensable for infection of barley plants by BSMV, and no detrimental effect on systemic movement of the virus was observed. However, besides eliminating coat protein expression in vivo, mutations within the coat protein gene and the first intercistronic region affected a number of other phenotypes: (1) expression of a downstream gene (beta b), (2) stability of the genomic RNA during virus multiplication in planta, (3) the requirement for a trans-acting BSMV protein (gamma b), (4) symptomatology and disease development in infected barley plants, and (5) host range.
Transient gene expression was studied in isolated protoplasts of barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Himalaya) transformed by electroporation. Two plasmid constructions were used, both of which contained the gene coding for neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) as a reporter gene. In one plasmid the reporter gene was under the control of an α-amylase group 1 gene promoter of barley and in the other, used as a control, under the CaMV 35S transcript promoter. Protoplasts were isolated from three different types of tissue: the aleurone layer, the scutellar epithelium and the mesophyll. All three types of protoplasts electroporated with 35S -nptII plasmid construction showed strong NPTII activity on which GA3 and ABA had no effect. In protoplasts isolated from the aleurone layer and scutellum the expression of amy-nptII was low when compared with the expression of 35S -nptII. In aleurone protoplasts GA3 enhanced the expression of amy-nptII about tenfold and ABA prevented the action of GA3. In protoplasts isolated from the scutellar epithelium GA3 did not affect the low level of expression of amy-nptII. In mesophyll protoplasts the amy-nptII was not expressed at all.
The ability of viruses to move through infected plants is an important determinant of host range and pathogenicity. We have investigated the genetic basis for the inability of the Type strain of barley stripe mosaic hordeivirus to undergo long-range systemic movement in the tobacco Nicotiana benthamiana. We show that, in this model system, a short open reading frame in the 5' leader of the smallest viral genomic RNA prevents long-range vascular movement. As predicted by the ribosome scanning model, the leader open reading frame decreases the efficiency with which the 5'-proximal gene is translated in vitro. Thus, systemic pathogenicity in this system may be determined by the efficiency of translation of a viral gene in vivo and is not determined by the primary sequence of the encoded protein.
Amylolytic strains of the yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, were constructed by transformation with expression plasmids containing cDNAs encoding either AMY1 (clone E) or AMY2 (clone pM/C). The alpha-amylases were efficiently secreted into the culture medium directed by their own signal peptides. When clone E without its 5'-noncoding region was expressed from the yeast PGK promoter, AMY1 was produced as 1% of total cell protein and was thus the major protein secreted, whereas a similar construct derived from pM/C produced much less AMY2. This level is the highest reported for a plant protein secreted by yeast as mediated by the endogenous signal peptide. Production of AMY1 increased 25-fold when the 5'-noncoding part of clone E which contains a 12-bp dG.dC homopolymer tail had been removed. Moreover, expression was one to two orders of magnitude higher when genes encoding AMY1 or AMY2 were inserted between promoter and terminator of the yeast PGK gene in comparison to expression directed from the ADC1 or GAL1 promoters. Recombinant AMY1 and AMY2 had the same Mr and N-terminal sequence as the corresponding barley malt enzymes. Furthermore, none of the enzymes were found to be N-glycosylated. Isoelectric focusing indicated that transformed yeast cells secreted one major form of AMY2 and four dominant forms of AMY1. One AMY1 form corresponded to one of the major forms found in malt while the others, having either low activity or unusually high pI, probably reflect inefficient/incorrect processing. Enzyme kinetic properties and pH activity-dependence of recombinant AMY2 were essentially identical to those of malt AMY2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ubiquitin (Ubi) genes encode two types of fusion proteins: polyUbi with a varying number of direct repeats of Ubi, and Ubi-tail fusions with long or short basic C-terminal extensions. A barley (Hordeum vulgare) genomic clone has been isolated with two very similar, intronless genes encoding monoUbi-long-tail fusion peptides. The genes are arranged as direct repeats separated by 3 kb of DNA and account for two of the probable three long-tail genes in the haploid barley genome. Both genes are active and give rise to messengers about 800 nt long. The sequence of the encoded Ubi moieties is identical to the sequence of Ubi repeats of polyUbi precursors from barley and other plants. The basic tails of the peptides are 79 aa long and 71-72% homologous to corresponding sequences from yeast and man. Recently, it was found that the long and short tails are ribosomal proteins in yeast [Finley et al., Nature 338 (1989) 394-401] and the evolutionary conservation of the structure of the Ubi-tail fusion genes suggests that they serve the same function in plants. The similarity between yeast and barley Ubi-long-tail fusion genes may extend to the regulatory regions, since upstream activating sites characteristic of ribosomal protein-encoding genes in yeast (UASrpg) were found in the barley genes.
A β-glucuronidase gene was introduced directly into barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Kobinkatagi) coleoptile cells by microinjection and transient expression of the gene was examined. Inner epidermis tissue of coleoptiles was excised and injected with plasmid DNA, pBI221, carrying cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter, β-glucuronidase gene, and a nopaline synthase polyadenylation region. Histochemical assay for β-glucuronidase production showed positive enzyme activity only in coleoptile cells injected with plasmid DNA. Expression of the β-glucuronidase gene was examined chronologically using honogenates of injected coleoptile tissues. Glucuronidase activity first appeared after 6 hr, reached the maximum level 24 hr after injection, and decreased afterwards. These results suggest that microinjection of coleoptile tissues may be a useful approach for the genetic engineering of Gramineae plants in which protoplast regeneration is difficult.
Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) possesses a tripartite genome composed of RNAs alpha, beta and gamma that have been cloned into in vitro transcription vectors from which infectious transcripts can be obtained. The BSMV genome has been engineered here to serve as an expression vector in plant protoplasts. Open reading frame (ORF) b of RNA beta, encoding a non-structural protein, was replaced by the firefly luciferase (luc) reporter gene to yield RNA beta 2-luc. In the presence of both RNAs alpha and gamma, RNA beta 2-luc mediated efficient expression of the luc gene upon transfection into tobacco and maize protoplasts. This expression ranged from 20- to 123-fold higher than the luciferase activity obtained from transfection with a luc gene mRNA. Replication of RNA beta and its derivatives i.e. 'minus' strand synthesis, was confirmed by Northern analysis, indicating that the high level of luc gene expression using RNA beta 2-luc resulted from RNA amplification. ORFa of RNA beta, encoding the coat protein, was also replaced by the luc gene to yield RNA beta 1-luc. Although transfection of RNA beta 1-luc alone produces luciferase efficiently, neither 'minus' strand synthesis nor further increase of luciferase activity was observed in the presence of RNAs alpha and gamma, or RNAs alpha, beta and gamma, suggesting that the deleted sequences within ORFa are cis-acting for replication of RNA beta. Our results demonstrate that a foreign gene can be expressed by replacement of a viral non-structural protein gene that is essential for virus multiplication in plants, leading to a potential strategy for virus 'containment' with use of 'disarmed' plant viral vectors.
In the roots of barley and other cereals, hypoxia induces a set of five isozymes of L-lactate dehydrogenase [LDH; (S)-lactate:NADH oxidoreductase, EC 1.1.1.27]. Biochemical and genetic data indicate that the five LDH isozymes are tetramers that arise from random association of the products of two Ldh loci. To investigate this system, cDNA clones of LDH were isolated from a lambda gt11 cDNA library derived from hypoxically treated barley roots. The library was screened with antiserum raised against barley LDH purified approximately 3000-fold by an improved three-step procedure. Immunopositive clones were rescreened with a cDNA probe synthesized by the polymerase chain reaction using primers modeled from the amino acid sequences of two tryptic LDH peptides. Two types of LDH clones were found. Nucleotide sequence analysis of one representative insert of each type (respectively, 1305 and 1166 base pairs) revealed open reading frames encoding 10 peptide fragments of LDH. The 1305-base-pair insert included the entire coding region of a 356-residue LDH monomer. The nucleotide sequences of the two LDH cDNAs were 92% identical in the coding region, but highly divergent in the 3' noncoding region, and thus probably correspond to the two postulated Ldh loci. The deduced amino acid sequences of the two barley LDHs were 96% identical to each other and very similar to those from vertebrate and bacterial LDHs. RNA blot hybridization showed a single mRNA band of 1.5 kilobases whose level rose about 8-fold in roots during hypoxic induction, as did the level of translatable LDH message.
Barley aleurone layers synthesize and secrete several proteases in response to gibberellic acid (GA3). Two major cysteine proteinases designated EP-A (37,000 M(r)) and EP-B (30,000 M(r)) have been described [Koehler and Ho (1988). Plant Physiol. 87, 95-103]. We now report the cDNA cloning of EP-B and describe the post-translational processing and hormonal regulation of both cysteine proteinases. Three cDNAs for cysteine proteinases were cloned from GA3-induced barley aleurone layers. Genomic DNA gel blot analysis indicated that these are members of a small gene family with no more than four to five different genes. The proteins encoded by two of these clones, pHVEP1 and 4, are 98% similar to each other and are isozymes of EP-B. The proteins contain large preprosequences followed by the amino acid sequence described as the mature N terminus of purified EP-B, and are antigenic to EP-B antiserum. The results of pulse-chase experiments indicated that the post-translational processing of large prosequences proceeds in a multistep fashion to produce the mature enzymes. Processing intermediates for EP-B are observed both in the aleurone layers and surrounding incubation medium, but only mature EP-A is secreted. The regulation of synthesis of EP-A, EP-B, and other aleurone cysteine proteinases was compared at the protein and mRNA levels. We conclude that barley aleurone cysteine proteinases are differentially regulated with respect to their temporal and hormonally induced expression.
Immunoglobulin light and heavy chains are synthesized in mammalian cells as precursors containing a signal peptide. Processing and assembling result in formation of active antibodies. Chimeric genes have been made containing the coding sequence of the barley alpha-amylase signal peptide which has been fused to cDNAs coding for either the mature light or the mature heavy chain of a monoclonal antibody. A plasmid was constructed linking both chimeric genes under the control of plant active promoters in an expression cassette. This DNA fragment was stably integrated into the genome of Nicotiana tabacum by Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated gene transfer. Synthesis of light and heavy chains and assembly to antibodies was detected in transgenic tobacco tissue using specific secondary antibodies. By electron microscopic immunogold labeling, the presence of assembled antibody could be detected within the endoplasmic reticulum. Affinity chromatography indicated biological activity of the assembled immunoglobulin produced in plant cells. Unexpectedly, a significant amount of assembled antibodies was found within chloroplasts.
The formation of delta-aminolevulinate from glutamate 1-semialdehyde (GSA) is catalyzed by glutamate 1-semialdehyde aminotransferase (EC 5.4.3.8). The active form of the barley enzyme appears to be a dimer of identical subunits with a molecular mass of 46 kDa. From the purified enzyme, amino acid sequences of the N-terminal ends of the mature protein as well as an internal peptide were determined. DNA primers deduced from these peptide sequences were used to amplify with the polymerase chain reaction a cDNA sequence encoding part of the enzyme. Screening a cDNA library with this DNA fragment identified a full-length clone encoding the 49,540-Da precursor of the GSA aminotransferase. The transit peptide for chloroplast import consists of 34 amino acids. GSA aminotransferase and a precursor form were expressed on a multicopy plasmid in Escherichia coli. Both recombinant gene products reacted with an antibody against the barley GSA aminotransferase. Active barley GSA aminotransferase expressed in E. coli was shown to be active in assays of bacterial cell extracts. As a gene symbol for barley GSA aminotransferase, Gsa is proposed.
Chlorophyll apoprotein accumulation in higher plant chloroplasts is controlled by light-dependent chlorophyll formation. Dark-grown plants lack chlorophyll and chlorophyll apoproteins. However, the plastid genes encoding the chlorophyll apoproteins are transcribed; chlorophyll apoprotein mRNA accumulates and associates with polysomes in plastids of dark-grown plants. Pulse-labeling assays revealed a population of short-lived proteins in plastids of dark-grown plants. One of these transiently labeled proteins was CP43, a chlorophyll apoprotein associated with photosystem II. Pulse-chase assays showed that newly synthesized CP43 was rapidly degraded in plastids of dark-grown plants, which lack chlorophyll. In contrast, CP43 synthesized in plastids from illuminated plants was stable. The synthesis of D1, a chlorophyll apoprotein of the photosystem II reaction center, was also analyzed in plastids of dark-grown and illuminated plants. Radiolabel accumulation into full-length D1 was only detected in plastids of illuminated plants. However, D1 translation intermediates of 15-25 kDa were detected in both plastid populations. Pulse-chase assays showed that the 15- to 25-kDa D1 translation products were precursors of mature D1 in plastids of illuminated plants. In contrast, in plastids of dark-grown plants, the 15- to 25-kDa translation intermediates were converted into a 23-kDa polypeptide previously suggested to be a proteolytic product of D1. These results indicate that chlorophyll produced in illuminated plants stabilizes D1 nascent polypeptides, which allows accumulation of mature D1.
Interaction of specific nucleotide sequences with trans-acting proteins is intrinsic to replication of viral as well as eucaryotic genomes. Brome mosaic virus RNA-2 encodes one of the two viral proteins known to be essential for replication. (R. French, M. Janda, and P. Ahlquist, Science 231:1294-1297, 1986; P. A. Kiberstis, L. S. Loesch-Fries, and T. C. Hall, Virology 112:804-808, 1981). Transfection of barley protoplasts with wild-type transcripts of brome mosaic virus RNA-1 and RNA-3 and serial dilutions of RNA-2 transcripts possessing unaltered coding sequences but bearing mutations that greatly incapacitated replication of RNA-2 revealed that trace amounts of RNA-2 are sufficient to support replication of the viral genome. In six replicate experiments containing RNA-2 transcripts devoid of the 3' 200 nucleotides that encompass the tRNA-like structure containing the minus-strand promoter, detectable levels of progeny RNA-1 and RNA-3 and subgenomic RNA-4 were present. This showed that viral p2 protein translated from the supplied RNA-2 functioned in trans to support replication of RNA-1 and RNA-3. However, in two similar experiments, progeny RNA-2 with electrophoretic mobility indistinguishable from that of wild-type RNA-2 was seen at 24 h postinoculation. Northern hybridization (RNA blot) analysis confirmed the presence of the tRNA-like 3' terminus on these progeny RNAs, indicating that recombinational restoration of the deleted sequence had occurred. This suggests that, under certain circumstances, RNA recombination may be a rapid and frequent phenomenon.
A 6.25 kbp barley plastid DNA region located between psbA and psbD-psbC were sequenced and RNAs produced from this DNA were analyzed. TrnK(UUU), rps16 and trnQ(UUG) were located upstream of psbA. These genes were transcribed from the same DNA strand as psbA and multiple RNAs hybridized to them. TrnK and rsp16 contained introns; a 504 amino acid open reading frame (ORF504) was located within the trnK intron. Between trnQ and psbD-psbC was a 2.24 kbp region encoding psbK, psbI and trnS(GCU). PsbK and psbI are encoded on the same DNA strand as psbD-psbC whereas trnS(GCU) is transcribed from the opposite strand. Two large RNAs accumulate in barley etioplasts which contain psbK, psbI, anti-sense trnS(GCU) and psbD-psbC sequences. Other RNAs encode psbK and psbI only, or psbK only. The divergent trnS(GCU) located upstream of psbD-psbC and a second divergent trnS(UGA) located downstream of psbD-psbC were both expressed. Furthermore, RNA complementary to psbK and psbI mRNA was detected, suggesting that transcription from divergent overlapping transcription units may modulate expression from this DNA region.
Transcription and Northern dot blot analyses were used to determine the relationship between light-induced changes in RNA levels and transcription in barley and maize plastids. Overall plastid transcription activity is near maximum and largely light independent in apical sections of 4.5-day-old dark-grown barley seedings. With continued development in the dark, transcription activity in barley plastids declined precipitously, but transcription could be reactivated if plants were illuminated. Illumination of 8-day-old dark-grown barley seedlings increased the transcription of psbA, rbcL, and 16 S rDNA; however, the stimulation of psbA transcription was 2-4-fold more than rbcL or 16 S rDNA. Differential enhancement of psbA transcription occurred when 4.5- or 8-day-old dark-grown seedlings were illuminated, and the influence persisted in plants illuminated for 72 h. Illumination of 8-day-old dark-grown barley caused an increase in psbA and rbcL mRNA levels, but the increase in psbA mRNA was greater than that of rbcL. Similarly, illumination of 9-day-old dark-grown maize increased plastid transcription activity and the levels of psbA and rbcL mRNA. These results indicate that light can modulate overall plastid transcription activity and differentially stimulate the transcription of genes including psbA.
Transient expression of chloramphenicol acetyl transferase gene has been detected in cultured barley (Hordeum vulgare L. cv. Heartland) cells and freshly isolated immature zygotic embryos (cv. Ellice) following the introduction of the gene by microprojectile bombardment. The DNA expression vector used to introduce the CAT gene, pCaMVI1CN, is a pUC8 derivative and consisted of a CaMV35S promoter, a fragment of alcohol dehydrogenase intron1, a CAT coding region and NOS polyadenylation region. The inclusion of the Adh1 intron1 was essential for the expression of CAT activity in cultured cells as well as immature zygotic embryos. Expression of CAT activity, which was dependent upon the DNA concentration used, could be detected as early as 20 h after bombardment. The results also suggested that the recipient cells have to be in an active state of cell division in order for the introduced gene to be expressed since mature zygotic as well as somatic embryos failed to reveal any gene expression. The effect of other parameters which influence the expression of the introduced gene as well as the potential of this novel technology for cereal transformation are also discussed.
The central portion of the brome mosaic virus (BMV) 2a protein represents the most conserved element among the related RNA replication components of a large group of positive-strand RNA viruses of humans, animals, and plants. To characterize the functions of the 2a protein, mutations were targeted to a conserved portion of the 2a gene, resulting in substitutions between amino acids 451 and 484. After the temperature profile of wild-type BMV RNA replication was defined, RNA replication by nine selected mutants was tested in barley protoplasts at permissive (24 degrees C) and nonpermissive (34 degrees C) temperatures. Four mutants did not direct RNA synthesis at either temperature. Various levels of temperature-sensitive (ts) replication occurred in the remaining five mutants. For two ts mutants, no viral RNA synthesis was detected at 34 degrees C, while for two others, an equivalent reduction in positive- and negative-strand RNA accumulation was observed. For one mutant, positive-strand accumulation was preferentially reduced over negative-strand accumulation at 34 degrees C. Moreover, this mutant and another displayed preferential suppression of genomic over subgenomic RNA accumulation at both 24 and 34 degrees C. The combination of phenotypes observed suggests that the 2a protein may play a role in the differential initiation of specific classes of viral RNA in addition to a previously suggested role in RNA elongation.
A cDNA encoding trypsin inhibitor CMe from barley endosperm has been cloned and characterized. The longest open reading frame of the cloned cDNA codes for a typical signal peptide of 24 residues followed by a sequence which is identical to the known amino acid sequence of the inhibitor, except for an Ile/Leu substitution at position 59. Southern blot analysis of wheat-barley addition lines has shown that chromosome 3H of barley carries the gene for CMe. This protein is present at less than 2%-3% of the wild-type amount in the mature endosperm of the mutant Risø 1508 with respect to Bomi barley, from which it has been derived, and the corresponding steady state levels of the CMe mRNA are about 1%. One or two copies of the CMe gene (synonym Itc1) per haploid genome have been estimated both in the wild type and in the mutant, and DNA restriction patterns are identical in both stocks, so neither a change in copy number nor a major rearrangement of the structural gene account for the markedly decreased expression. The mutation at the lys 3a locus in Risø 1508 has been previously mapped in chromosome 7 (synonym 5H). A single dose of the wild-type allele at this locus (Lys 3a) restores the expression of gene CMe (allele CMe-1) in chromosome 3H to normal levels.
The early light-inducible proteins (ELIPs) of barley chloroplasts are encoded in two multigene families yielding end products of different molecular mass. Sequencing of complete cDNA clones showed that the low and high molecular mass proteins differ by the presence or absence of a 65 amino acid peptide in the amino-terminal part of the mature proteins. Two domains of the ELIPs reveal striking similarity in amino acid sequence with two transmembrane domains of all known light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b-binding proteins from photosystem I and II and may be of importance in anchoring the polypeptides in the membrane. The cDNA sequences of two low molecular mass ELIPs differ by an insert of 5 codons in the putative transit peptide. By in vitro transcription and translation of the cloned DNA and subsequent transport of the products into chloroplasts it could be established that the precursors are processed into products of identical apparent molecular mass. In vitro translated ELIPs were incorporated into thylakoid membranes both as precursors and mature polypeptides. It is suggested that ELIPs are pigment-free substitutes for light-harvesting polypeptides in the assembly of photosynthetic units during early development of thylakoids.
Synthesis of D2, a Photosystem II reaction center protein encoded by psbD, is differentially maintained during light-induced chloroplast maturation. The continued synthesis of D2 is paralleled by selective light-induced accumulation of two psbD-psbC transcripts which share a common 5' terminus. In the present study, we examine the nature of the photoreceptor and the fluence requirement for psbD-psbC transcript induction. The light-induced change in psbD-psbC RNA population can be detected between 1 and 2 h after 4.5 day old dark-grown barley seedlings are transferred to the light. Light-induced transcript accumulation occurs normally in the chlorophyll-deficient barley mutant, xan-f10, indicating that light-activated chlorophyll formation and photosynthesis are not required for RNA induction. High fluence blue light fully induces psbD-psbC transcript accumulation; low or high fluence red or far-red light do not. However, psbD-psbC transcript accumulation elicited by blue light pulses can be partially attenuated if far-red light is given immediately following the blue light treatment. Thus, although blue light is needed to initiate transcript accumulation, phytochrome modulates the amplitude of the response. Pretreatment of dark-grown plants with cycloheximide blocks light-induced psbD-psbC transcript accumulation. This could implicate a blue-light responsive nuclear gene in the light-induced accumulation of the two psbD-psbC transcripts.
Cereal lectins are a class of biochemically and antigenically related proteins localized in a tissue-specific manner in embryos and adult plants. To study the specificity of lectin expression, a barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) embryo cDNA library was constructed and a clone (BLc3) for barley lectin was isolated. BLc3 is 972 nucleotides long and includes an open reading frame of 212 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence contains a putative signal peptide of 26 amino acid residues followed by a 186 amino acid polypeptide. This polypeptide has 95% sequence identity to the antigenically indistinguishable wheat germ agglutinin isolectin-B (WGA-B) suggesting that BLc3 encodes barley lectin. Further evidence that BLc3 encodes barley lectin was obtained by immunoprecipitation of the in vitro translation products of BLc3 RNA transcripts and barley embryo poly(A(+)) RNA. In situ hybridizations with BLc3 showed that barley lectin gene expression is confined to the outermost cell layers of both embryonic and adult root tips. On Northern blots, BLc3 hybridizes to a 1.0 kilobyte mRNA in poly(A(+)) RNA from both embryos and root tips. We suggest, on the basis of immunoblot experiments, that barley lectin is synthesized as a glycosylated precursor and processed by removal of a portion of the carboxyl terminus including the single N-linked glycosylation site.
Full-length genomic cDNA clones of the Type and ND18 strains of barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV) were transcribed in vitro using T7 RNA polymerase. The combination of RNAs alpha, beta, and gamma synthesized in the presence of 5' cap analogs was infectious after inoculation onto barley plants, conclusively demonstrating the tripartite nature of the BSMV genome. Transcripts synthesized in the absence of cap analogs were not infectious. A gamma-specific subgenomic RNA which is normally present in BSMV virions was not required to establish a systemic infection. In vitro transcripts of variant cDNA clones which were isolated from the ND18 strain, containing either a simple nucleotide substitution or a 372-nucleotide duplication similar to one found in the genome of the Type strain, were also found to be biologically active. Two dicotyledonous hosts which have a differential response to infection with the Type and ND18 strains of BSMV were identified and these phenotypes were shown to be faithfully reproduced by inoculation with in vitro transcripts derived from the appropriate full-length cDNA clones.
An in vitro transcription system has been developed that utilizes self-processing to adjust 3' termini in transcribed viral RNAs. Transcription vectors were constructed by ligating a cDNA "cassette" containing self-cleavage sequences from the satellite RNA of tobacco ringspot virus (STobRV RNA) with the 3' end of brome mosaic virus (BMV) cDNA clones. Transcripts were obtained either from templates linearized at positions located downstream from the cassette or from nonlinearized plasmids. In both cases, a spontaneous self-cleavage reaction produced BMV RNAs that contained 19 heterologous nucleotides at their 3' ends. These RNAs were biologically active, indicating that 19 extra nucleotides did not remove the infectivity. The progeny BMV RNA isolated from infected plants did not retain the 19-base heterologous sequence. BMV RNAs containing longer 3' heterologous sequences were not infectious. The STobRV self-cleavage cassette is potentially applicable to a variety of RNA systems.
Methods have been developed for the isolation of aleurone protoplasts from developing caryopses of Hordeum vulgare and Triticum aestivum in order to study transient expression of introduced genes. Chimaeric gene constructs were introduced into aleurone protoplasts by polyethylene glycol (PEG). Transient expression directed by the 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) of the reporter gene encoding chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) was detected in aleurone protoplasts from developing barley and wheat grains. Using a similar construct, CAT activity increased when the alcohol dehydrogenase intron 1 fragment from maize was ligated between the 35S promoter and the CAT coding region. The demonstration of transient expression in protoplasts from developing aleurone layers indicates that they may be useful for investigating tissue and developmental control of genes coding for cereal seed proteins.
We have utilized the cellular differentiation gradient and photomorphogenic responses of the first leaf of 7-day-old barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) to examine the accumulation of mRNA and protein encoded by the ribulose-1,5-biphosphate carboxylase holoenzyme (rubisco) activase gene (rca). Previous studies have revealed a pattern of coordinate expression of rubisco subunit polypeptides during development. We compared the expression of rubisco polypeptides and mRNAs with those encoded by rca. The mRNAs encoding both rubisco activase and rubisco are expressed exclusively in leaf tissue of 7-day-old barley seedlings; mRNAs and polypeptides of rca accumulate progressively from the leaf base in a pattern that is qualitatively similar to that of rubisco subunit mRNAs and polypeptides. The parallel pattern of rca protein and mRNA accumulation indicate that a primary control of rca gene expression in this system lies at the level of mRNA production. Light-induced expression of rca in etiolated barley follows a different pattern from that of the acropetal barley leaf gradient, however. Etiolated, 7-day-old barley seedlings contain levels of rca mRNA near the limit of detection in Northern blot hybridization assays. White light induces a 50- to 100-fold accumulation of rca mRNA, which is detectable within 30 min after the onset of illumination. In contrast, steady state levels of mRNAs encoding the small rubisco subunit are affected little by light, and mRNAs encoding the large subunit accumulate about 5-fold in response to illumination. While rca mRNA levels are low in etiolated barley leaves, levels of the protein are approximately 50 to 75% of those found in fully green leaves.
We have cloned and determined the nucleotide sequence of a gene encoding alcohol dehydrogenase (Adh) from Triticum aestivum cv. Millewa. Southern analysis using cv. Chinese Spring nullisomic-tetrasomic and ditelosomic lines established that the cloned gene mapped to the long arm of chromosome 1A and does not correspond to any previously identified wheat Adh locus. Southern analysis also provided evidence for triplicate copies of this Adh gene on the homoeologous group 1 chromosomes, while Northern blots indicated that the homoeologous group 1 Adh genes, like several other plant Adh genes, are transcribed under anaerobic conditions. Sequence analysis indicates that the cloned gene has a structure similar to both monocot and dicot Adh genes with an open reading frame encoding a polypeptide of 379 amino acids. Sequences important for eucaryotic gene expression such as the TATA box, polyadenylation signal, and intron splice sites were found in the expected positions. The open reading frame is interrupted by 8 introns which are in identical positions with 8 of the 9 introns in maize and pea Adh genes, suggesting that during evolution there are processes occurring that result in the loss of introns. Sequence analysis also revealed that the cloned wheat Adh gene shared extensive homology with the barley Adh3 gene not only in the coding region but also in the noncoding regions. However, this homology is discontinuous as a result of a 1.8-kbp insertion (TLM), which is present in the cloned wheat Adh gene and absent in the barley Adh3 gene. Sequence analysis of this insertion reveals features characteristic of the short terminal inverted repeat class of eucaryotic transposable elements. We have no evidence for the transposition of the TLM element. However, Southern blots reveal multiple copies of sequences related to TLM in the wheat genome and in other closely related species, suggesting that transposition may once have played an important role in the evolution of the Gramineae family.
We have characterized a nuclear mutant of barley, viridis-115, lacking photosystem II (PSII) activity and compared it to wild-type seedlings during light-induced chloroplast development. Chloroplasts isolated from wild-type and viridis-115 seedlings illuminated for 1 h synthesized similar polypeptides and had similar protein composition. After 16 h of illumination, however, mutant plastids exhibited reduced ability to radiolabel D1, CP47, and several low Mr membrane polypeptides, and by 72 h, synthesis of these proteins was undetectable. Immunoblot analysis showed that plastids of dark-grown wild-type barley lacked several PSII proteins (D1, D2, CP47, and CP43) and that 16 h of illumination resulted in the accumulation of these polypeptides. In contrast, these polypeptides did not accumulate in illuminated viridis-115 seedlings, although mutant plastids accumulated two PSII proteins that participate in oxygen evolution, oxygen-evolving enhancers 1 and 3. Northern analysis showed that the levels of psbA and psbB mRNA in mutant plastids were equal to or greater than levels in wild-type plastids throughout the developmental period examined here. These results indicate that the nuclear mutation present in viridis-115 affects the translation and stability of the chloroplast-encoded D1 and CP47 polypeptides and that its influence is expressed after the onset of light-induced chloroplast development.
The effect of cold treatment on gene expression in two different barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivars has been studied. Cold stress induced a set of new mRNAs as determined by in-vitro translation of coleoptile RNA obtained from control and stressed seedlings. These mRNAs accumulated with different kinetics, and the cold-induced proteins could be grouped into five categories. The first category (a) is represented by a single protein with Mr of 75 kDa that reaches its highest level of expression after 6 h at 5°C. This polypeptide readily accumulates in the plant tissues and it can be detected when proteins separated by two-dimensional electrophoresis are stained with silver nitrate. The other polypeptides appear later during the 1- to 4-d stress period (protein groups b and c), increase (group d), or decrease during the period of treatment (group e). Only minor differences between the two cultivars with different cold-resistance capacities were found when the in-vitro translation products were compared. The results obtained demonstrate that several mRNAs are specifically expressed as a response to cold treatment in barley coleoptiles.
Routine methods for stable gene transfer to cereals are not yet available. To be able to study chloroplast targeting in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cells, the expression of recombinant genes was assayed in barley mesophyll protoplasts after electroporation of DNA. The CaMV 35S transcript promoter was attached to a chimeric gene consisting of a pea RuBisCo small subunit transit peptide coding sequence (tp) and the gene coding for neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII). As a control, a construction with no transit peptide coding segment was used. 48 hours after electroporation, a fraction of the protoplasts was lysed and intact chloroplasts were isolated. Protoplasts electroporated with either of the gene constructions showed strong NPTII activity. However, enzyme activity was detected in chloroplasts only when thetp-nptII gene construction was used. Protease treatment of the chloroplasts confirms that the pea RuBisCo small subunit transit peptide is targeting the NPTII polypeptide into the chloroplasts, subsequent to the synthesis of the hybrid precursor in barley cells.
cDNA clones were isolated from tissue specific cDNA libraries of barley and maize using as a probe the cDNA of the maize gene C1, a regulator of anthocyanin gene expression. C1-related homology for all of the four cDNAs characterized by sequence analysis is restricted to the N-terminal 120 amino acids of the putative proteins. This region shows striking homology to the N-proximal domain of the myb oncoproteins from vertebrates and invertebrates. Within the myb proto-oncogene family this part of the respective gene products functions as a DNA binding domain. Acidic domains are present in the C-proximal protein segments. Conservation of these sequences, together with the genetically defined regulator function of the C1 gene product, suggest that myb-related plant genes code for trans-acting factors which regulate gene expression in a given biosynthetic pathway.
The isolation and characterisation by DNA sequencing of a low molecular weight (LMW) glutenin gene from wheat is described. The deduced protein contains a signal peptide, a central repetitive region rich in proline and glutamine and N and C terminal non-repetitive domains, similar to other prolamins. A detailed comparison of the C terminal domain of 20 prolamin genes enabled us to divide them into 4 families. The LMW glutenin family is distinct from the alpha, beta- and gamma-gliadin families of wheat and is closest to the B hordein genes of barley. This and other comparisons were also used to assess the pattern of genetic variation among prolamin sequences and to provide a molecular basis for the interpretation of prolamin size polymorphism. The 5' flanking fragment of the isolated gene was previously shown to direct endosperm-specific expression of a reporter gene in transgenic tobacco. Evidence is provided that the isolated gene is also active in wheat and its transcription initiation site was determined. Features of the gene which may be relevant to its activity are discussed.
We have cloned and sequenced two barley alpha-amylase genes belonging to the high pI isozyme family, one of which, Amy6-4, corresponds to a cDNA previously characterized by our laboratory. A 750-base pair probe from Amy6-4, representing primarily the promoter/upstream sequences cross-hybridizes on genomic Southern blots under stringent conditions to five other genes or pseudogenes; this demonstrates that the promoter/upstream region in these different members of the gene family is highly conserved. In contrast, this probe hybridizes very poorly to the genomic fragment containing the other cloned high pI gene, Amy46, a finding consistent with substantial divergence of sequence about 200 base pairs upstream from the TATA box of each. We compared steady-state mRNA levels from these individual genes to levels for mRNAs from two low pI alpha-amylase genes and from the single copy gene for aleurain, a thiol protease, using quantitative S1 nuclease protection assays. We found, in RNA from aleurone cells treated with gibberellic acid for 19-24 h, that the two low pI alpha-amylase mRNAs are each about five times more abundant than Amy6-4 or aleurain, which are, in turn, about 10 times more abundant than Amy46. These results indicate that as many as seven closely related high pI genes are needed to provide mRNA levels approaching those from the two low pI genes. We speculate that the substantially lower level of expression of Amy46 may be related to its divergent sequence upstream from the promoter.
Expression sites of genes encoding (1→3,1→4)-β-glucan 4-glucanohydrolase (EC 3.2.1.73) have been mapped in germinated barley grains (Hordeum vulgare L.) by hybridization histochemistry. A(32)P-labelled cDNA (copy DNA) probe was hybridized to cryosections of intact barley grains to localize complementary mRNAs. No mRNA encoding (1→3,1→4)-β-glucanase is detected in ungerminated grain. Expression of (1→3,1→4)-β-glucanase genes is first detected in the scutellum after 1 d and is confined to the epithelial layer. At this stage, no expression is apparent in the aleurone. After 2 d, levels of (1→3,1→4)-β-glucanase mRNA decrease in the scutellar epithelium but increase in the aleurone. In the aleurone layer, induction of (1→3,1→4)-β-glucanase gene expression, as measured by mRNA accumulation, progresses from the proximal to distal end of the grain as a front moving away from, and parallel to, the face of the scutellum.
As part of our investigation of the mode of action of plant hormones in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) aleurone layers, we have studied the expression of five identified and three unidentified mRNA species in the presence of exogenous gibberellic acid (GA3) and abscisic acid. Three of the mRNAs are GA3-inducible, three are suppressed by GA3, and two are constitutive. The extent of the GA3 effect differs considerably for both inducible and suppressible mRNAs. For example, a ten-fold higher concentration of GA3 (10(-8) M) is required for full induction of the high-pl group α-amylase mRNA than is required for the low-pI α-amylase mRNA (10(-9) M). Temporal regulation of mRNA abundance also varies between the two α-amylase isoenzyme groups. The three GA3-suppressible mRNA species studied, alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH1), a probable amylase and protease inhibitor, and an unidentified barley mRNA species also varied in response to GA3. The ADH1 mRNA decreased drastically within 8 h of GA3 treatment, whereas the other two began to decrease in abundance only after 12-16 h of GA3 treatment. Abscisic-acid treatment counteracted the GA3 effects for both the inducible and suppressible mRNA species. Comparison of α-amylase-mRNA levels and α-amylase-synthesis rates showed a strong correlation between the two parameters, the only exception being a lack of α-amylase synthesis in the presence of α-amylase mRNA at low GA3 concentrations. Therefore, the expression of α-amylase seems to be regulated primarily by its mRNA levels.
The application of two-dimensional electrophoretic procedures to structural and genetic studies of seed proteins from Poaceae (including the cultivated cereals) and Fagaceae is described. The following related problems have been considered: covalent and non-covalent association of protein subunits in multiple oligomeric structures; chromosomal locations of genes encoding seed proteins; quantitation of gene products in relation to gene expression and regulation; purification of protein components to study their homology relationships and in vitro activities; evolutionary and phylogenetic relationships; identification of genetic stocks. Isoelectric focusing, pore-gradient electrophoresis, electrophoresis at different pH's, are among the separation procedures used in the first dimension, whereas sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and starch-gel electrophoresis at acid pH have been the preferred second-dimensional methods. Dissociating conditions (sodium dodecyl sulfate, Nonidet P-40, or urea) and reducing conditions (2-mercaptoethanol) have been used when required.
A barley genomic library, obtained by cloning in the vector lambda EMBL-4, was screened with a cDNA probe encoding the alpha-hordothionin toxin. A positive clone, designated lambda TH1, was selected for further characterization. The coding and flanking regions of the alpha-hordothionin gene (Hth-1) were sequenced. Hth-1 has two introns of 420 and 91 nucleotides (nt), respectively. The promoter region has the following main features: one TATA box; three CATC boxes; an enhancer-like sequence, starting at nt position -282 from the first ATG codon, which is homologous to sequences appearing at similar positions in other endosperm genes; two versions of an 18-nt sequence that is more highly repeated in structural domains of several prolamin genes; two extensive regions close to the first ATG codon that are homologous to a sequence located much further upstream in the B-hordein promoter. The transcription start point was determined at nt positions -46 to -47, both by the S1 nuclease-protection and by the primer-extension assays. A maximum of 2-4 copies of the Hth-1 gene per haploid genome was determined by Southern-blot hybridization. Expression of the Hth-1 gene was detected during the cell proliferation stage of endosperm development (maximum at 13-16 days after pollinization) and was not detected in either etiolated or green coleoptiles.
The low protein barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) cultivar ;Karl' is deficient in hordeins, the major storage protein fraction, but has normal levels of other endosperm protein fractions. We compared hordein gene expression in Karl with that in ;Traill,' a related cultivar that contains normal amounts of hordein. In plants grown in controlled environmental conditions, hordein accumulation in Karl was 55% of that in Traill. The amount of hordein synthesized at all developmental stages tested was lower in Karl, as shown by pulse labeling of excised spikes with [(3)H]leucine. To determine whether levels of hordein mRNAs were related to amounts of hordein synthesis, total RNA preparations from endosperms at three or four developmental stages were hybridized to cDNA probes corresponding to B and C hordein genes. Both B and C hordein mRNA levels were significantly lower in Karl than in Traill at intermediate developmental stages. It was concluded that the low-hordein character of Karl was regulated by the size of the hordein mRNA pool. Transcriptional and/or post-transcriptional controls may be involved in the regulation of hordein mRNA levels.
Complete cDNA copies of genomic RNA1, RNA2, and RNA3 of cowpea chlorotic mottle virus (CCMV) were cloned 1 base downstream from a T7 RNA polymerase promoter. The mixture of capped in vitro transcripts from all three clones produced normal CCMV infections in barley protoplasts and cowpea plants. By using transcripts from these clones and from a similar set of biologically active clones of the related brome mosaic virus (BMV), all possible single component exchanges between the BMV and CCMV tripartite genomes were tested. Viral RNA replication was not observed with any heterologous combination of RNA1 and RNA2, which encode trans-acting viral RNA replication factors. However, substitution of the heterologous RNA3 into either genome produced viable hybrid viruses, both of which replicated in barley protoplasts and produced lesions on Chenopodium hybridum, a local lesion host for both parent viruses. In hybrid infections, BMV and CCMV coat proteins each readily packaged RNAs from the heterologous virus, but BMV RNAs were replicated to a higher level than CCMV RNAs, even when trans-acting RNA replication factors were provided by CCMV genes. Neither hybrid systemically infected the natural host of either parent virus, suggesting that host specificity determinants in BMV and CCMV are encoded by RNA3 and at least one other genomic RNA.
The "slender" mutant of barley resembles a normal barley plant treated with high doses of gibberellic acid (GA3). Expression of GA3-regulated and abscisic acid (ABA)-regulated mRNAs was studied in the endosperm and roots of mutant and wild-type (WT) plants.Production of α-amylase (EC 3.2.1.1) by WT embryoless half-grains was dependent on the presence of GA3, and was prevented by ABA. In contrast, α-amylase was produced by half-grains of the slender mutant in the absence of added GA3, although it was still reduced by ABA. The spectrum of α-amylase mRNAs in "slender" embryoless half-grains incubated in the absence of added GA3 was the same as in WT endosperm half-grains incubated in the presence of GA3. These results indicate that the endosperm of the slender mutant exhibits similar properties to WT endosperm treated with GA3.In roots the expression of an ABA-inducible mRNA was similar in slender and WT seedlings either treated with exogenous ABA or exposed to dehydration. This result, and the effect of ABA on α-amylase production by the endosperm, indicate that the slender plants retain sensitivity to ABA.
The results of long-term studies of changes in adaptedness in a number of experimental populations of annual plants are summarized. Measurements made of quantitative traits showed that cumulative increases in reproductive capacity continued in these experimental populations for more than 50 generations. Highly significant allelic frequency changes also occurred for marker loci governing morphological variants, disease resistance, allozymes, and rDNA restriction fragments. Individual effects of the marker loci on quantitative traits were determined by extensive progeny testing of selfed families descended from single plants isolated from various generations of the experimental populations. Comparisons between homozygotes and heterozygotes of marker loci for quantitative trait expression revealed that all the marker loci studied had statistically significant additive effects on several to many quantitative traits; thus, each Mendelian locus, in addition to being a locus for its discrete descriptive effect, was also a locus for several quantitative traits. Consistent associations were found between superior reproductive capacity (e.g., larger numbers of kernels per plant) and the alleles of marker loci that increased in frequency over generations; no other quantitative traits measured were clearly and consistently associated with alleles that increased in frequency. Multilocus analyses based on canonical correlation, log linear, and cluster analysis procedures showed that highly significant associations developed in early generations among alleles of different loci in all the predominantly selfing populations studied. Dynamic changes featuring amalgamations of alleles into fewer clusters involving larger numbers of loci continued into the late generations. Patterns of ecogenetic differentiation that developed under predominant selfing were found to be fine-scaled overlays of environmental heterogeneity. The picture of evolutionary change that emerges is one in which the incorporation of increasing numbers of favorably interacting alleles into large synergistic complexes was accompanied in inbreeding populations by increases in adaptedness to the local environment and also by striking ecogenetic differentiation among local populations that occupy unlike habitats, including differentiation between cultivated plants and their wild progenitors. Selfing appears to promote the development and maintenance of adaptedness within populations and at the same time to facilitate the development of spatial differentiation by retarding gene flow between populations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The psbD and psbC genes encode two polypeptides of Photosystem II. These genes are adjacent in the barley chloroplast genome and are part of a 5.7 kbp transcription unit. In dark-grown barley, four large transcripts hybridize to psbD and psbC; two additional transcripts hybridize to psbC. Illumination of 4.5-day-old dark-grown seedlings causes a decrease in the six psbD--psbC transcripts found in etioplasts and the accumulation of two different transcripts of 4.0 and 3.2 kb which hybridize to psbD and psbC. The light-induced transcripts have a common 5' end approximately 600 nt upstream of psbD and 3' ends 1175 and 175 nt downstream of psbC. The shift in psbD--psbC transcript population occurs during a phase of chloroplast maturation when transcript levels and translation of chloroplast genes such as psaA--psaB and psbB decline approximately 3- to 5-fold. In contrast, translation of the psbD and psbC gene products declines to a lesser extent, suggesting that the light-induced accumulation of the 4.0 and 3.2 kb psbD--psbC transcripts is required to maintain psbD and psbC gene product translation in mature chloroplasts.
The effects of the translation inhibitor cycloheximide on transcription in Rauscher virus transformed mouse erythroblasts and in barley rootlets were studied. In transformed erythroblasts, the globin gene transcription appeared to be blocked. Consecutive treatment of cells with sublethal doses of cycloheximide (7 micrograms/ml) and actinomycin D resulted in the induction of synthesis of the protein fraction corresponding to beta-globin chains. An exposure of barley rootlets to cycloheximide caused changes in total RNA synthesis.
A cDNA clone, designated pUP-44, whose longest open reading frame codes for a protein that is homologous to the wheat alpha-amylase inhibitors, has been isolated from a library obtained from developing barley endosperm. The deduced sequence for the mature protein, which is 122 residues long, is preceded by a sequence of 30 residues which has the typical features of a signal peptide. A closely corresponding protein, designated BDAI-1, has been isolated from mature endosperm. BDAI-1 behaves as a dimer and inhibits the alpha-amylase from the insect Tenebrio molitor at concentrations that have no effect on salivary or pancreatic alpha-amylases.
The psbE and psbF genes encoding the 9.4 and 4.4 kD apoproteins of cytochrome b-559 have been located in the chloroplast genome of barley. As in other plant species they are found adjacent to each other in the large single copy region of the chloroplast DNA. Both the nucleotide sequence and the deduced amino acid sequence for the two polypeptides are identical to that of wheat and more than 95% similar to those of spinach, tobacco and Oenothera. The region between the two genes spans 10 nucleotides (excluding the stopcodon) and contains a typical procaryotic ribosomal binding site. A dicistronic transcript is identified, but the presence of a ribosomal binding site between the two genes may allow independent translation.
The two cytochrome b-559 apoproteins of 9.4 kD and 4.5 kD molecular weight have been expressed in vitro using DNA templates containing either the two genes psbE and psbF in tandem or the individual genes. Transcription with E. coli RNA-polymerase or SP6 RNA-polymerase has been followed by translation in E. coli derived lysates. Simultaneous as well as independent synthesis of the apoproteins is possible. A 9.4 kD in vitro translation product has been identified as apoprotein I by immunoprecipitation with a monoclonal antibody specific for the C-terminal part of the 9.4 kD apoprotein of cytochrome b-559. The isolated psbF gene directs the synthesis of a translation product with a molecular weight of 4.5 kD corresponding to apoprotein II. Expression of the psbE gene requires the presence of endogenous regulatory sequences 5' upstream of psbE, while this is not the case for psbF. Additional in vitro translation products of 5.7 and 2.4 kD molecular weights are synthesized and probably translated from two reading frames starting with two different out-of-phase ATG codons in the nucleotide sequence of the psbE gene.
The plastoquinone-binding polypeptide D-2 of the reaction center complex of photosystem II in barley has been expressed in vitro using the expression vector pGem3 containing the psbD gene of chloroplast DNA as template. The full length D-2 polypeptide with an apparent mol. weight of 32 kD is a major product when mRNA is transcribed with SP6 RNA polymerase from an insert containing the psbD gene with a 36 bp 5' leader sequence and a 3' tail of 99 bp downstream of the stop codon. Translation of the mRNA had to be done in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate. Translation also occurred from the internal AUG codons giving rise to truncated D-2 polypeptides with sizes of 30, 25 and 17 kD. They are immunoprecipitable with antisera either raised against amino acid residues 235 to 241 or against 345 residues of the D-2 polypeptide. A truncated translation product of 12 kD probably initiated at codon 247 is not recognized by either antiserum. An additional immunoprecipitable protein with an apparent molecular weight of 46 kD is observed by SDS-PAGE and is interpreted as a homomeric aggregate of D-2 polypeptides. Upon addition of methanol solubilized 2,6 dichloro-p-benzoquinone or other quinones a preferential translation of the full-length and truncated D-2 polypeptides is observed. The use of in vitro synthesized D-2 polypeptides for studies of binding quinones, other electron carriers and chlorophyll chromophores is discussed.
The polypeptides of the barley light-harvesting protein of photosystem I (LHCI) share certain epitopes. At least two of these common epitopes are present in chlorophyll a/b-protein 1 (Chla/b-P1 = CP29), as shown by cross-reacting monoclonal antibodies (14). These antibodies were employed for immunological identification of polypeptides translated in vitro in an mRNA-dependent cell-free rabbit reticulocyte lysate. The monoclonal antibody CMpLHCI:2 precipitated only one polypeptide of molecular weight 28 kD from in vitro translates primed with polyA+ RNA. No 28 kD precipitation band was found, if this antibody was mixed with a PSI-200 preparation before it was added to the translate. The translational capacity of the LHCI transcripts isolated from 12 hours greened barley was much higher than those isolated from 6 hours greened barley. Transcripts for LHCI polypeptides were also found among the polyA+ RNA of the mutant viridis-k23, which is devoid of LHCI polypeptides in its thylakoid membranes. The monoclonal antibody CMpCh1a/b-P1:1 precipitated a polypeptide of molecular weight 31 kD from in vitro translates primed with polyA+ RNA. Thus, the cross-reactivity the two antibodies show with the mature proteins is not found when the antibodies are reacted with the precursor proteins.
The primary structure of barley endosperm beta-amylase, an enzyme which catalyses the liberation of maltose from 1,4-alpha-D-glucans, has been deduced from the nucleotide sequence of a cloned full-length cDNA. The mRNA is 1754 nucleotides long [excluding the poly(A) tail] and codes for a polypeptide of 535 amino acids with a relative molecular mass of 59,663. The deduced amino acid sequence was compared with the sequences of ten peptides obtained from the purified enzyme and unambiguous identification was obtained. The N-terminal region of the deduced sequence was identical to a 12-residue cyanogen-bromide-peptide sequence, indicating that beta-amylase is synthesized as the mature protein. A graphic matrix homology plot shows four glycine-rich repeats, each of 11 residues, preceding the C-terminus. Southern blotting of genomic DNA demonstrates that beta-amylase is encoded by a small gene family, while cDNA sequence analysis indicates the presence of at least two types of mRNA in the endosperm. Dot and northern blot analysis show that Hiproly barley contains greatly increased levels of beta-amylase mRNA compared to the normal cultivar Sundance, whereas Risø mutant 1508 contains only trace amounts. These results correlate well with the deposition of beta-amylase during endosperm development in these lines. Low but similar amounts of beta-amylase mRNAs sequences were detected in leaves and shoots from normal and mutant barleys, demonstrating that the mutant lys3a (1508) and lysl (Hiproly) genes do not affect the expression of beta-amylase in these tissues.
NADH-specific and NAD(P)H bispecific nitrate reductases are present in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Wild-type leaves have only the NADH-specific enzyme while mutants with defects in the NADH nitrate reductase structural gene (nar1) have the NAD(P)H bispecific enzyme. A mutant deficient in the NAD(P)H nitrate reductase was isolated in a line (nar1a) deficient in the NADH nitrate reductase structural gene. The double mutant (nar1a;nar7w) lacks NAD(P)H nitrate reductase activity and has xanthine dehydrogenase and nitrite reductase activities similar to nar1a. NAD(P)H nitrate reductase activity in this mutant is controlled by a single codominant gene designated nar7. The nar7 locus appears to be the NAD(P)H nitrate reductase structural gene and is not closely linked to nar1. From segregating progeny of a cross between the wild type and nar1a;nar7w, a line was obtained which has the same NADH nitrate reductase activity as the wild type in both the roots and leaves but lacks NADPH nitrate reductase activity in the roots. This line is assumed to have the genotype Nar1Nar1nar7nar7. Roots of wild type seedlings have both nitrate reductases as shown by differential inactivation of the NADH and NAD(P)H nitrate reductases by a monospecific NADH-nitrate reductase antiserum. Thus, nar7 controls the NAD(P)H nitrate reductase in roots and in leaves of barley.
Within 1-2 h of illumination of etiolated barley plants the mRNAs of seven nuclear-coded proteins are transiently induced. It is proposed that at least some of these proteins are precursors to chloroplast membrane proteins since after posttranslational transport 2-h-specific bands of 18.5 kDa, 18 kDa and 13.5 kDa have been found bound to thylakoid membranes. cDNA clones for these early light-inducible proteins (ELIPs) have been isolated. Hybrid-release translation shows that part of their information must be homologous since the complete set of early light-inducible translation products is obtained with all investigated clones although the proportions of the translated bands vary for individual clones. From hybridization data it is concluded that two ELIP families of high (24-27 kDa) and of low (16-18 kDa) molecular mass exist which are induced in parallel. Induction of ELIPs occurs even at very low light intensities and is saturated at about 1000 lx. Therefore, ELIPs are not considered to represent light stress proteins but to play a regulatory role during development.
Four plastid genes, psaA, psaB, psbD and psbC, were localized on the barley plastid genome. PsaA was adjacent to psaB in one transcription unit and psbD was adjacent to psbC in a second transcription unit. The transcription units containing psaA-psaB and psbD-psbC are separated by approximately 25 kbp on the barley plastid genome and are transcribed convergently. Transcripts hybridizing to each transcription unit were characterized by northern blot analysis, S1 protection experiments and primer extension analysis. Two 5.3 kb transcripts hybridize to psaA-psaB. The two transcripts have a common 5' end but differ at their 3' ends by about 26 nucleotides. The transcription unit which contains psbD-psbC also includes trnS(UGA), trnG(GCC), and an open reading frame which codes for a 62 amino acid protein. Six large transcripts ranging from 5.7 kb to 1.7 kb hybridize to the psbD-psbC transcription unit as well as several RNAs of tRNA size. The large transcripts arise from three 5' ends and two clusters of 3' ends. The 3' ends map near trnG(GCC) and trnS(UGA) and could be generated by RNA processing or termination of transcription. Two of the six transcripts hybridize to psbC but not psbD suggesting that translation of psbD and psbC could occur on separate RNAs.
cDNA clones for chymotrypsin inhibitor-2 (CI-2) have been isolated from an endosperm-specific library of barley using a synthetic oligonucleotide probe. The nucleotide sequences of several of the cDNAs predict an open reading frame (beginning with an ATG codon) which encodes a protein of 84 residues (Mr 9380). In the longest clone another ATG codon is present, a further 69 nucleotides upstream. The nucleotide sequence between these two ATG codons predicts an amino acid sequence with the characteristics of a signal peptide, as found in other cloned plant protease inhibitors. However, it contains an in-frame TAA stop codon, which is also present in all of the shorter cDNAs which extend into this region. From in vitro translation experiments, using mRNAs synthesized from cDNAs, we conclude that, in vitro, translation of all or the vast majority of CI-2 mRNAs begins at the second ATG codon, 31 nucleotides downstream from the ochre stop codon. Southern blotting of genomic DNA shows that CI-2 is encoded by a small multigene family, while sequence analysis of the cDNAs shows that at least two sub-families of mRNAs, which are more than 90% homologous, are present in the endosperm. Northern blotting analysis shows that related but different sequences are present in leaf and shoot RNA populations. Further Northern blot hybridizations using RNA from the normal line, Sundance, and the high-lysine barley mutant, Hiproly, show that endosperms of the latter contain greatly increased levels of CI-2 mRNA. This correlates with the increased amount of CI-2 protein deposited in Hiproly, and demonstrates that the differential expression of CI-2 in the two genotypes is controlled at the level of transcription and/or stability of the mRNA. In contrast, the abundance of CI-2 mRNAs in leaves and shoots is not affected.
In barley seedlings the transcription of genes coding for the light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein (LHCP) is stimulated and the transcription of genes coding for the NADPH-protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase (reductase) is repressed by light working via the phytochrome system. This phytochrome-mediated control of gene expression has been studied by monitoring in-vitro transcription in isolated nuclei. Two different experimental approaches have been used to elucidate the function of phytochrome (Pfr) during the transduction of the light signal. Concentrations of phytochrome were varied experimentally either by illuminating intact plants or macerated plant material prior to the isolation of nuclei or by adding purified phytochrome (Pfr) in its native 124-kDa form to the isolated nuclei. Our results indicate that there are at least two different steps involved in the phytochrome control of specific gene expression. (i) There is a rapid and transient change in the transcription rate which is saturated by very low levels of Pfr. (ii) There is a change in the duration and the maximum range of the transient change; this step requires relatively high Pfr concentrations and thus reacts very sensitively and rapidly to changes in Pfr levels as induced by secondary irradiations. This second step, but not the first one, could be triggered by the addition of purified oat phytochrome to a reconstituted nuclear system. This effect of purified phytochrome could only be shown if nuclei isolated from red-light (R)-irradiated seedlings were used. It was thus possible to simulate the effect of an in-vivo-applied second R pulse by the addition of Pfr to nuclei isolated from R-preirradiated plants.
Etioplasts of 4.5-day-old dark-grown barley synthesize and accumulate most of the membrane and nearly all the soluble polypeptides of mature chloroplasts of light-grown seedlings. Etioplasts do not synthesize a limited set of chloroplast-encoded polypeptides which are major constituents of chloroplast thylakoid membranes: two chlorophyll apoproteins of photosystem I (68 and 65 kDa), two chlorophyll apoproteins of photosystem II (47 and 43 kDa), and a 32-kDa polypeptide which has now been identified as the psbA gene product. Throughout development in the dark, etioplasts were unable to synthesize the chlorophyll apoproteins of photosystem I and II or the psbA gene product despite the presence of significant transcript levels for psbA and psaA-psaB (encode for photosystem I chlorophyll apoproteins). Light was not required for the synthesis of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase large subunit with the highest rate of large subunit synthesis occurring in young dark-grown seedlings. Illumination of 4.5-day-old dark-grown barley rapidly induced the synthesis of the chlorophyll apoproteins and the psbA gene product at a time when transcript levels for psbA and psaA-psaB did not increase appreciably. Therefore, during the early stages of light-induced development the synthesis of the chlorophyll apoproteins of photosystem I and psbA gene product is regulated at the translational level. With continued chloroplast development in the light, the synthesis of the chlorophyll apoproteins of photosystem I and II decline rapidly as does the synthesis of the large subunit of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase. The decline in polypeptide synthesis correlated with a decline in rbcL and psaA-psaB transcript levels and a light-dependent decline in plastid rRNA content. In contrast, synthesis of the psbA gene product was maintained throughout light-induced chloroplast development which correlated with the maintenance of psbA transcript levels. However, light is not strictly required for psbA transcript accumulation since psbA transcript levels increased slightly with continued plastid development in dark-grown seedlings.
We have determined the nucleotide sequences of Amy32b, a type A alpha-amylase gene, and of the gene for aleurain, a thiol protease closely related to mammalian cathepsin H. Both are expressed in barley aleurone cells under control of the plant hormones gibberellic acid and abscisic acid, but only aleurain is expressed at high levels in other barley tissues. Sequence analysis indicates that the 5' end of the aleurain gene, comprising 3 exons and 2 introns, may have become associated with the remainder of the gene, encoding the protease domain of the protein, by some sort of recombination event. This 5' domain of the gene is very G + C-rich and is flanked by inverted repetitive sequences. We found two different groups of homologous sequence elements. The first group consists of four blocks of sequences conserved in the same spatial arrangement in both genes; these are arranged at similar intervals upstream from the Amy32b TATA box and from a TATA box present in intron 3 of aleurain, outside of the 5' domain and upstream from the protease domain. A part of two of these conserved sequences is similar to the core sequence of certain enhancer elements characterized from mammalian cells. The second group of homologous elements is present in the upstream region of both genes. We speculate that these conserved sets of sequences may have some role in either the tissue specificity of expression of the genes or in some part of the hormonal regulation imposed on them.
Eukaryotic messenger RNAs are translated with unequal efficiencies in vivo and in vitro and the molecular basis of this phenomenon is not understood. As an approach to understanding the role of the 5' untranslated leader sequence in regulating mRNA translational efficiency, chimaeric mRNAs have been generated by joining a heterologous leader to complementary DNA (cDNA) sequences, followed by in vitro transcription using SP6 RNA polymerase and in vitro protein synthesis. We used the untranslated leader from the coat protein mRNA of alfalfa mosaic virus (AMV RNA 4), a well-translated, highly competitive message, to replace the leader sequence of barley alpha-amylase (B alpha A) and human interleukin 1 beta (IL-1 beta) cDNAs. Deletion of transcribed vector sequences and replacement of the native untranslated region with the AMV RNA 4 leader can result in as much as a 35-fold increase in mRNA translational efficiency; moreover, the translational efficiency of the chimaeric mRNAs containing the AMV RNA 4 leader is at least as great as that of virion RNA 4. The results suggest that the chimaeric AMV-mRNAs have either a higher relative affinity or a diminished requirement for a limiting component(s) of the translational machinery; in addition, it may be feasible, through use of heterologous leader sequences, to increase expression of engineered genes or cDNAs without changing the antigenic or biological properties of the encoded protein.
A small molecular weight RNA isolated from barley embryos inhibits specifically protein synthesis initiation. It does not bind to Oligo (dT)-Cellulose indicating that it is devoid of long poly(A) stretches. It is a single stranded RNA as it is sensitive to pancreatic RNase. This is the first report of such an RNA in a plant system.
Near-isogenic cultivars of Hordeum vulgare which differ for the Mlp gene for resistance to Erysiphe graminis f.sp. hordei were inoculated with race 3 of this pathogen and in vitro translation products of mRNA populations compared by 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis and fluorography. This revealed the presence of new mRNA species in infected leaves compared to non-inoculated controls. These new mRNA species were more abundant in resistant leaves than susceptible leaves. A cDNA library was prepared from poly(A)(+)RNA isolated from infected leaves carrying the Mlp gene for resistance (cvMlp). The library was screened by differential hybridization using [(32)P]-labelled cDNA prepared from poly(A)(+)RNA of both control and infected leaves. Six cDNA clones showing greater hybridization to cDNA prepared from infected leaves were selected. These six cDNA clones hybridized to DNA isolated from barley leaves but not to DNA from conidia of the fungus. In Northern blot analysis of RNA from infected leaves the six cDNA clones each hybridized to mRNA species of different size. Translation products for three of the cDNA clones corresponded to infection-related translation products identified on 2-dimensional fluorograms. The cDNA clones were used to study the kinetics of host mRNA induction during infection of the near-isogenic cultivars of barley. The host mRNA species corresponding to the cDNA clones were induced prior to 24 h after inoculation during the primary penetration processes. In addition the mRNAs corresponding to four of the cDNA clones increased to greater amounts in cvMlp than in the near-isogenic susceptible cultivar (cvmlp) over a 2-d period following inoculation. These results suggest that the Mlp gene has a regulatory role in host gene expression resulting in enhanced expression of several host mRNA species following infection by the powdery mildew fungus.
A study of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and malate dehydrogenase isozyme expression in Triticum turgidum conv. durum /Hordeum chilense monosomic addition lines has revealed the location of two structural genes, 6-pgd-H (ch) 2 and Mdh-H (ch) 1, on chromosome 1H(ch) of H. chilense. The homoeology between 1H(ch) and other chromosome of Triticeae related species is discussed on the basis of isozyme gene analysis.
The light-dependent accumulation of the P700 chlorophyll a protein of the photosystem I reaction center has been studied in greening barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) seedlings. Immunoblot analysis of total cellular protein fractions and immunogold labelling of the P700 chlorophyll a protein in ultrathin sections of Lowicryl-embedded leaf tissue revealed that the concentration of this chlorophyll-binding protein in plastids of dark-grown barley seedlings is below the limit of detection. Upon illumination with white light, a rapid accumulation of this protein is induced. This light effect seems not to be regulated at the level of transcription. The gene for the P700 chlorophyll a protein has been mapped within the large single-copy region of the plastid DNA of barley. High levels of transcripts of this gene are present already in dark-grown seedlings and remain fairly constant throughout an extended illumination period. Polysomes were isolated from etioplasts and chloroplasts. The same high relative concentration of mRNA encoding the P700 chlorophyll a protein was present in both polysome fractions. This result suggests that the light-dependent accumulation of the P700 chlorophyll a protein during chloroplast formation in barley seedlings is regulated at the translational, or posttranslational, level.
The DNase I sensitivity of the nuclear genes encoding the NADPH-protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase, the light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein (LHCP), the hordeins and a 15-kDa protein of unknown function was assayed in chromatin of etiolated and green leaves and endosperm tissue of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). A tissue-specific differentiation of chromatin structure was found for the LHCP, hordein and 15-kDa protein genes. The genes for the LHCP and the 15-kDa protein, which are expressed in leaf tissue, display DNase I sensitivity in leaves but not in endosperm. Hordein genes which are expressed solely in endosperm, were insensitive to low levels of digestion with DNase I in leaves but sensitive in endosperm. The effect of light on chromatin structure was determined by comparing leaves of etiolated plants and plants which had been grown under a day/night cycle. Only in the case of the 15-kDa protein is there a remarkable change from a DNAse-I-sensitive configuration in etiolated leaves to a more resistant one in leaves from illuminated plants. The gene for the NADPH-protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase was found to be equally sensitive to DNase I in leaves and endosperm.
A cDNA library, prepared from developing barley endosperm, was screened for thionin recombinants. Clone pTH1 was that with the largest insert out of three identified. The longest reading frame in the 610-base-pair insert codes for a protein of 127 amino acids that includes an internal sequence of 45 amino acids, which is identical to that obtained for the alpha-hordothionin by direct protein sequencing. The deduced thionin sequence is preceded by a leader sequence of 18 residues and followed by a sequence that corresponds to an acidic protein of 64 amino acids. This structure supports previous evidence indicating that thionin is synthesized as a much larger precursor, which undergoes two processing steps: the cotranslational cleavage of a leader sequence and the post-translational one of a larger peptide. The size of the mRNA was estimated to be about 950 bases by Northern analysis. Thionin concentration in mature endosperm of barley cv. Bomi was about twice that of its high-lysine mutant Risø 1508. The same difference was observed in thionin mRNA in the corresponding developing endosperms, indicating that gene expression is partially blocked in the mutant at a pretranslational level.
In response to a phytohormone, gibberellic acid, the aleurone layers of barley seeds synthesize and secrete alpha-amylases, which are coded by a set of stable mRNAs. When aleurone layers are subjected to heat shock treatment, the synthesis of alpha-amylase is suppressed while heat shock proteins are induced. The suppression of alpha-amylase synthesis is not the result of translational control as reported in several other systems. Rather, the sequences of alpha-amylase mRNA are rapidly degraded during heat shock as shown by in vitro translation and dot blot hybridization with a cDNA probe. Upon recovery from heat shock, the tissue resumes the synthesis of alpha-amylase in 2-4 hr. However, in the presence of a transcription inhibitor, cordycepin, the resumption of synthesis of alpha-amylase does not take place, indicating that new transcription of alpha-amylase genes is necessary for this recovery process. The degradation of alpha-amylase mRNAs correlates with the rapid destruction of endoplasmic reticulum as observed by electron microscopy, a phenomenon that has not been reported previously as a heat shock response. Since alpha-amylase mRNA is associated with the endoplasmic reticulum via membrane-bound polyribosomes, we suggest that the destruction of the endoplasmic reticulum during heat shock causes the destabilization and the eventual degradation of alpha-amylase mRNA.
The amylases of the second leaves of barley seedlings (Hordeum vulgare L. cv Betzes) were resolved into eight isozymes by isoelectric focusing, seven of which were beta-amylase and the other, alpha-amylase. The alpha-amylase had the same isoelectric point as one of the gibberellin-induced alpha-amylase isozymes in the aleurone layer. This and other enzyme characteristics indicated that the leaf isozyme corresponded to the type A aleurone alpha-amylase (low pI group). Crossing experiments indicated that leaf and type A aleurone isozymes resulted from expression of the same genes.In unwatered seedlings, leaf alpha-amylase increased as leaf water potential decreased and ABA increased. Water stress had no effect on beta-amylase. alpha-Amylase occurred uniformly along the length of the leaf but beta-amylase was concentrated in the basal half of the leaf. Cell fractionation studies indicated that none of the leaf alpha-amylase occurred inside chloroplasts.Leaf radiolabeling experiments followed by extraction of alpha-amylase by affinity chromatography and immunoprecipitation showed that increase of alpha-amylase activity involved synthesis of the enzyme. However, water stress caused no major change in total protein synthesis. Hybridization of a radiolabeled alpha-amylase-related cDNA clone to size fractionated RNA showed that water-stressed leaves contained much more alpha-amylase mRNA than unstressed plants. The results of these and other studies indicate that regulation of gene expression may be a component in water-stress induced metabolic changes.
The B-hordeins are the major group of prolamin storage proteins in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) and they are encoded by a small multigene family that is expressed specifically in the developing endosperm. We report the complete nucleotide sequence of a clone of one B-hordein gene (pBHR184). The cloned gene contains no introns and belongs to the B1 sub-family of B-hordein genes. Comparison of the 5'-flanking sequences of pBHR184 with those of related S-rich prolamin genes from wheat shows that several short sequences within 600 bp upstream of the translation initiation codon are strongly conserved. A sequence that is conserved at around -300 bp in the S-rich prolamins is also conserved at similar locations in genes encoding the two major classes of maize prolamin (the Z19 and Z21 zeins) and appears to be unique to prolamin genes. We discuss the possible role of this '-300 element' in the control of gene expression in the developing cereal endosperm.
The CM proteins are a group of major salt-soluble endosperm proteins encoded by a disperse multigene family. The effects of high-lysine mutations on the net accumulation in barley endosperm of three members of this group (CMa, CMb, and CMe) have been investigated. Genes CMa, CMb and CMe are located in chromosomes 1, 4, and 3 respectively. Protein CMe has been found to be identical with a previously described trypsin inhibitor. The three proteins have been quantified in the different genetic stocks by HPLC. The different high-lysine mutations have different effects on the expression patterns of the three genes: CMe is markedly decreased and CMa and CMb are increased in mutant Risø 1508, whereas all three proteins are decreased in Risø 527 and increased in Risø 7 with respect to the wild-type Bomi; CMa and CMb are increased and CMe is unaffected in mutant Risø 56 with respect to the wild-type Carlsberg II; and protein CMe is markedly decreased in Hiproly barley as compared with its sister line CI4362. The implications of these results in connection with the evolution of CM proteins and with the characterization of high-lysine mutations are discussed.
Isolation of a full- or nearly full-length cDNA clone for the type B isozyme of barley alpha-amylase is described. The coding region has a high GC content and an unusual codon bias similar to that described for the type A isozyme cDNA previously characterized by our laboratory. The theoretical secondary structure for the 5' end of this type B mRNA, as well as that for the two previously identified type A transcripts, is unusual in that the AUG initiation codon is enclosed in each instance by a very stable hairpin loop. Results of primer extension experiments utilizing probes for the 5' coding regions of both types of mRNA are consistent with some of the features of these predicted structures. Primer extension experiments utilizing a probe specific for the type B 5' coding region identified only one type of extension products, and these had 5' untranslated region sequences identical to that of the type B cDNA. Thus there appears to be only one major type of type B gene transcribed. Hybridization experiments utilizing 5' probes specific for type A and for the type B mRNA demonstrate different effects of the hormone, gibberellic acid. The type A mRNAs are present in relatively large amounts in unstimulated aleurone cells and increase about 20-fold after stimulation with gibberellic acid. In contrast, the type B mRNA is present at very low levels in unstimulated cells, but increases at least 100-fold after cells are exposed to the hormone.
The transcriptional rates of four different genes in shoots of barley grown under different light regimes were quantified by monitoring nuclear RNA transcripts using gene-specific hybridization probes. Isolated nuclei were pulse-labelled with [alpha-32P]UTP and the relative rates of light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein (LHCP) mRNA, NADPH:protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase mRNA, B1 hordein mRNA, and 26-S rRNA synthesis were measured. Irradiation of dark-grown plants with a red light pulse increased the rate of LHCP mRNA synthesis tenfold within 3 h, and the rate of rRNA synthesis more than twofold within 9 h. The relative rate of synthesis of the oxidoreductase mRNA decreased following a red light pulse reaching a minimum after 3-6 h. As a direct proof of phytochrome involvement in the light-induced stimulation of LHCP and the repression of the oxidoreductase transcripts for both responses, red/far-red reversibility could be demonstrated. We conclude that phytochrome is able both to increase the transcription of certain nuclear genes and decrease the transcription of others.
Chromosomes are arranged in ordered haploid sets around the centre of the metaphase plate at mitosis in several grass species and hybrids. Each chromosome is in a fixed mean position relative to other, heterologous chromosomes, this order can be predicted using Bennett's model, and is clearly demonstrated from reconstructions of electron micrographs of serial sections (see Heslop-Harrison & Bennett, 1983a,b,c). The nucleus contains spatial domains of genes with similar functions. Chromosomes with major effects on nuclear behaviour--division or meiotic pairing--may be at special positions in the order. Changing spatial relationships of chromosomes with respect both to each other and the nuclear envelope (during the cell cycle and during development) may affect cell differentiation and gene activity. Chromosome order may have implications for the control of development within the nucleus and the organism. Order may constrain karyotype and hence species evolution.
A previous study [Rahman, Shewry & Miflin (1982) J. Exp. Bot. 33, 717-728] showed differential accumulation of the major storage proteins (called B and C hordeins) in developing endosperms of barley (Hordeum vulgare). To determine how this accumulation is regulated, we have studied mRNA fractions prepared from similar endosperms. Hordein-related mRNA species were detected some days before the deposition of hordeins in vivo. The translation products in vivo directed by polyribosomes, polysomal RNA and total cellular RNA showed similar changes in the proportions of the hordein products to those observed in the accumulations of the proteins in vivo. There was a relative increase in one of the subfamilies of B hordeins (called B1 hordein) and a decrease in the second subfamily of B hordeins (B3 hordein) and in C hordeins. The populations of RNA species related to these three groups of hordeins were studied by 'dot hybridization', with specific complementary-DNA probes for B1-, B3- and C-hordein-related sequences. This showed a 10-15-fold increase in sequences related to the B1 hordein during endosperm development, but only a 4-fold increase in sequences related to B3 and C hordeins. These results indicate that the rates of synthesis of hordeins are related to the abundance of their respective mRNA species. The different results observed for the two subfamilies of B hordeins are of interest, since they indicate differential expression of two subfamilies of genes present at a single multigenic locus.
The purpose of this study was to identify specifically genes and transcripts for the high pI isozyme of barley alpha-amylase. From hybridization of coding sequence probes to blots of genomic DNA digested with restriction enzymes that do not cut within our cloned high pI alpha-amylase cDNA, it is estimated that about 7 alpha-amylase genes or pseudogenes exist. No difference could be detected between barley aleurone cell and sprout DNAs. Experiments using probes from the 5' and 3' untranslated sequences of the high pI alpha-amylase cDNA clone identified three HindIII fragments that probably carry high pI sequences. Primer extension experiments used as a primer the terminal 5' coding sequence from our cDNA clone; this primer would not cross-hybridize to low pI alpha-amylase transcripts. Two major transcripts were identified. These shared a conserved 23-base sequence immediately 5' to the ATG start codon, although a C----G transversion and a 3-base deletion were present within this sequence. An unusual 8-base pair GC palindrome was present in the conserved region immediately preceding the ATG start codon. Distal to the conserved sequence there was no apparent homology. One transcript carrying a 97-base untranslated region was identical to our high pI cDNA clone E. The gene for the other was recovered from a lambda phage genomic library. The 5' coding sequence was very similar, but not identical to clone E, demonstrating that these transcripts arise from separate genes. The two transcripts increased coordinately in aleurone cells stimulated with gibberellic acid. These data indicate that there is a high pI alpha-amylase multigene family with at least two active members, both of which are regulated in some manner by the plant hormone gibberellic acid.
Banding patterns of nitrate reductase (NR), nitrite reductase (NiR), and glutamine synthetase (GS) from leaves of diploid barley (Hordeum vulgare), tetraploid wheat (Triticum durum), hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum), and tetraploid wild oats (Avena barbata) were compared following starch gel electrophoresis. Two NR isozymes, which appeared to be under different regulatory control, were observed in each of the three species. The activity of the more slowly migrating nitrate reductase isozyme (NR1) was induced by NO3- in green seedlings and cycloheximide inhibited induction. However, the activity of the faster NR isozyme (NR2) was unaffected by addition of KNO3, and it was not affected by treatments of cycloheximide or chloramphenicol. Only a single isozyme of nitrite reductase was detected in surveys of three tetraploid and 18 hexaploid wheat, and 48 barley accessions; however, three isozymes associated with different ecotypes were detected in the wild oats. Inheritance patterns showed that two of the wild oat isozymes were governed by a single Mendelian locus with two codominant alleles; however, no variation was detected for the third isozyme. Treatment of excised barely and wild oat seedlings with cycloheximide and chloramphenicol showed that induction of NiR activity was greatly inhibited by cycloheximide, but only slightly by chloramphenicol. Only a single GS isozyme was detected in extracts of green leaves of wheat, barley, and wild oat seedlings. No electrophoretic variation was observed within or among any of these three species. Thus, this enzyme appears to be the most structurally conserved of the three enzymes.
During the light-dependent transformation of etioplasts to chloroplasts a rapid decrease of the NADPH-protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase is induced. At the same time the mRNA activity coding for this enzyme protein also declines rapidly under the influence of phytochrome (Pfr). On the other hand the apoprotein of the light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein and its mRNA activity are inversely affected by the same photoreceptor. Cloned cDNA sequences which are complementary to these mRNAs have been used to assess the effect of phytochrome (Pfr) on the concentration of the two transcripts. The phytochrome-induced changes of the two translatable mRNAs are paralleled by corresponding changes in the steady-state concentration of the mRNA sequences. This inverse relationship between the light-dependent regulation of the NADPH-protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase and the light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein suggests that a single reversible triggering event can increase the transcription of certain genes and decrease the transcription of others.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare) and its wild progenitor (H. spontaneum) have three loci for alcohol dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.1; ADH). The Adh1 locus is constitutively expressed in seed tissues, whereas expression of the loci Adh2 and Adh3 requires anaerobic induction. The Adh3 gene is well expressed in aleurone and embryo tissues kept under N2 for 2-3 days. Using N2-treated embryos, a diverse collection of H. spontaneum was screened in starch gels for electrophoretic variants at the Adh3 locus. Four variants were found: two were conventional mobility variants (Adh3 S, Adh3 V); one was a null variant (Adh3 n); and the fourth (Adh3 I) variant lacked active homodimers and showed reduced heterodimer activity. The 35S-labeled monomers induced under N2 in the lines homozygous for Adh1, Adh2, or Adh3 variants were immunoprecipitated with antiserum raised against maize ADH. Fluorography after separation by SDS-PAGE and by urea-isoelectric focusing indicated that the Adh3 n allele was CRM- and that the Adh3 I gene product was smaller than normal. The Adh1 and Adh3 variants showed independent segregation.
The lys 3a gene present in the barley mutant Ris phi 1508 results in an increased content of lysine in the grain. Previous studies have shown that this increase results from a decreased accumulation of hordein and an increase in other more lysine-rich proteins and in free amino acids. We report here a detailed examination of the effects of this gene on the different groups of hordein polypeptides and the mRNAs encoding them. The amounts of the two major groups of hordein polypeptides (B and C hordein ) were reduced to about 20 and 7%, respectively, of those present in the parental variety ( Bomi ), with a greater effect on one of the two subfamilies of B polypeptides. In contrast, the amounts of D hordein polypeptides were increased fourfold. In vitro translations of polysomal and total cellular RNA fractions showed similar effects on the relative amounts of hordein products synthesized. More detailed analyses of the populations of hordein mRNAs were made using specific cDNA clones and hybrid-selection translation, Northern hybridization, and "hybrid-dot" analysis. Only traces of mRNAs for "C" hordein were detected, while the abundances of mRNAs for the two subfamilies of B hordeins were reduced to 40 and 5% of those in Bomi . The amount of mRNA for D hordein was increased twofold. A cDNA clone related to B hordein was used to analyze genomic DNA fractions by Southern hybridization. The lys 3a gene had no effect on either the number (about 10) or the organization of the B hordein genes. These studies clearly demonstrate that the effects of the lys 3a gene on the amounts of the hordein polypeptides are closely related to changes in the amounts of the mRNAs encoding them. Although the exact effect of the gene remains unknown, it is most likely to be either at transcription or on the early processing of the mRNA.
The nucleotide sequence of a barley chloroplast DNA 3.7 kb SmaI-HindIII fragment is presented. This fragment contains atpBE, the genes for the beta and epsilon subunits of ATPase; trnM2, the gene for tRNA2met; and trnV1, the gene for tRNA1va1. The atpE-trnM2 interval is 126 bp and trnM2 is transcribed towards atpBE. The trnM2-trnV1 interval is 203 bp and trnV1 is transcribed away from trnM2. The trnV1 locus has a 597 bp intervening sequence. the organization and sequences of these genes are compared to the analogous genes from maize and tobacco chloroplast DNA. Using the latter comparisons the nature of sequence divergence between chloroplast DNAs is discussed.
Several alpha-amylase clones were identified by screening a group of 345 cDNA clones derived from poly(A)+RNA from gibberellic acid (GA)-treated barley aleurone layer cells using an alpha-amylase cDNA clone that we had characterized previously as the hybridization probe. The alpha-amylase clones showed differences in the distribution of restriction enzyme sites, in the extent of cross hybridization, and in nucleotide sequence. There are at least three types of alpha-amylase clones in our collection, and the alpha-amylase cDNA clone reported by Rogers and Milliman [J. Biol. Chem. (1983) 258: 8169-8174] is a fourth type. The accumulation of alpha-amylase mRNAs in aleurones as a function of time after GA addition and of hormone concentration in the incubation medium was studied using different alpha-amylase cDNA clone probes. These studies indicate a differential control of the expression of the alpha-amylase genes by GA.
Mutations at the Adh1 locus in maize were selected from plants infected with barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV). Pollen from the infected inbred line 1s2p, which is homozygous for Adh1-S (abbreviated S), Adh2-P, c and r was treated with allyl alcohol and applied to silks of a tester stock homozygous for Adh1-F, Adh2-N, C and R. From these pollinations 356 kernels arose on the F1 ears. Of these eight showed no activity of the S allele in scutellar samples while two exhibited low levels. Five of the putative mutant kernels germinated and two of these contained the contamination markers Adh2-P, c and r. The newly arisen mutations were designated S5446 and S5453. S5453 exhibited an abnormally low level of ADH activity in the F1 scutellum. In the F2 generation the mutant reverted at a high frequency with only about 5% of the S5453 alleles expressing low levels. DNA blotting and hybridization analyses showed no alterations in the restriction patterns of S5453 when compared to the progenitor S allele. S5446 which exhibited no ADH activity in the F1 scutellum is unstable in the pollen; reversion frequencies approaching 10(-2) were observed in samples from some plants. Restriction digestion patterns of DNA from this mutant revealed the presence of a 3.3 kb insertion at Adh. The insert does not appear to contain sequences homologous to the BSMV genome but rigorous analyses remain to be carried out. It is hypothesized that BSMV infection may mobilize endogenous but dormant transposable elements in maize.
We have analyzed the molecular nature of the Riso 56 mutation that occurs in barley. This mutation results in a depression of hordein accumulation in the grain and consequently in a higher overall lysine content. In particular, the amount of B hordein, which is encoded by the complex locus Hor-2, is decreased by about 75% because of the absence of the major components. The synthesis of certain minor polypeptides, with properties similar to the major B hordeins, remains unaffected. Analysis of endosperm RNA, by in vitro translation and hybridization to various cloned cDNAs derived from hordein mRNA, shows that mRNA for the major B hordeins is not present in the endosperm. Hybridization of a B hordein cDNA clone to gel-fractionated restriction digests of mutant and wild-type DNA indicates that at least 85 kb of DNA has been deleted from the Hor-2 locus in the high-lysine mutant.
We have purified the protein synthesis inhibitors from wheat (tritin) and investigated their antigenic relationship to inhibitors from other grains and more distantly related plants. Three forms of tritin (tritin 1, 2, and 3) indistinguishable with regards to their molecular weight and enzymatic properties were found. Antiserum against the most abundant tritin, tritin 2, cross reacted with tritin 1, tritin 3, and with the translation inhibitors from barley and rye, but not with other plant-derived translational inhibitors. The results indicate that only closely related plants contain antigenically similar protein synthesis inhibitors.
Starting with an enriched alpha-amylase mRNA preparation, cDNA was synthesized by reverse transcription and was cloned at the Pst I site of plasmid vector pBR322 by the "G-C tailing" procedure. Clones containing alpha-amylase cDNA sequences were identified among the recombinant clones by in vitro translation of hybrid-selected mRNA followed by immunoprecipitation of translation products with antiserum to alpha-amylase. The longest alpha-amylase cDNA clone isolated was 630 base pairs long and was characterized by digestion with restriction enzymes. Using this clone as a labeled nucleic acid hybridization probe, we observed that multiple bands of DNA with alpha-amylase sequences were present in restriction digests of barley embryo DNA. This indicates the presence of a family of barley alpha-amylase or alpha-amylase-like genes. Analysis of RNA blots with the cloned alpha-amylase hybridization probe indicated that alpha-amylase mRNA is synthesized de novo in barley aleurones after addition of gibberellic acid. The gibberellic acid-induced accumulation of alpha-amylase mRNA is blocked by cycloheximide which suggests the requirement of a newly synthesized protein factor for efficient expression of alpha-amylase gene.
The light-induced greening of etiolated barley plants is used as a model to study the light-dependent control of plastid development. Upon illumination a rapid transformation of etioplasts to chloroplasts is induced. The effect of illumination does not only include the light-dependent chlorophyll synthesis but also the appearance or decline of specific proteins within the plastid membrane fractions. So far two of these proteins have been studied in detail. The light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein (LHCP) is one of the major protein constituents of the thylakoid membrane of chloroplasts. However, this protein is not detectable among the membrane polypeptides of etioplasts. Illumination of dark-grown barley plants induces a massive insertion of the LHCP. The appearance of the protein is controlled by the cooperation of at least two distinct photoreceptors: protochlorophyllide and phytochrome. In dark-grown barley plants not only the LHCP but also its mRNA is not detectable. The light-dependent appearance of mRNA activity for the LHCP is under the control of phytochrome (Pfr). Even though the appearance of mRNA activity is induced via Pfr by a single red light pulse, the assembly of the complete LHCP takes place only under continuous illumination, which allows chlorophyll synthesis. The second protein analyzed so far is the NADPH-protochlorophyllide-oxidoreductase. This enzyme catalyzes the light-dependent reduction of protochlorophyllide to chlorophyllide and thus controls one of the first detectable light-dependent reactions during the greening period. It is generally assumed that this enzyme is responsible for the overall chlorophyll synthesis and accumulation during the greening period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
During the illumination of dark-grown barley plants light induces a rapid decrease of a translatable mRNA which codes for a polypeptide of Mr 44000. This component was identified as a precursor of the NADPH:protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase. The precursor has an Mr larger than the authentic protein by approximately 8000. The light-induced change in the level of translatable mRNA can be induced by a 15-s red-light pulse followed by 5 h of darkness. The red-light effect is reversed by a subsequent far-red-light treatment. It is concluded that the light-induced decline of translatable mRNA for the NADPH:protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase is controlled by phytochrome. The significance of this finding for present concepts of light-dependent control of chloroplast development and chlorophyll synthesis is discussed.
A crude membrane fraction was prepared from isolated aleurone layers, the secretory tissue of barley grains. The layers were pre-incubated in the presence or absence of the phytohormone gibberellic acid. The membranes catalyzed the transfer of [14C]mannose from GDP-[14C]mannose and of N-[14C]acetylglucosamine from UDP-N-[14C]acetylglucosamine to endogenous and exogenous dolichyl monophosphate. When gibberellic acid was present during the pretreatment the activity of the transferases was increased by a factor of two to three. A significantly increased activity was observable within four hours after the addition of gibberellic acid, whereas the gibberellic-acid-induced secretion of the glycoprotein alpha-amylase started only after 12 h. Tunicamycin inhibited the secretion of alpha-amylase by 60 to 80%. Intracellularly, however, no alpha-amylase was found to accumulate. On the other hand, tunicamycin did not inhibit the rate of total protein synthesis by more than 10%. The possibility is discussed that the synthesis of the protein portion of glycoproteins is specifically inhibited, when glycosylation is prevented.
Analysis of translation products synthesized in vitro in the presence of a mixture of brome mosaic virus (BMV) RNAs 1, 2, 3, and 4 usually shows a predominance of coat protein, coded by RNA4. The proportion of products directed by RNAs 1 and 2 decreased at saturating concentrations of BMV RNA and in the presence of 7-methylguanosine 5'-phosphate (m7G5'p) at nonsaturating concentrations of RNA. No differences in the relative proportions of the various proteins produced were detected in the presence of T-2 toxin, which interferes with the formation of the first peptidyl bond rather than competing for initiation factor, as has been suggested for m7G5'p. These data show that the ability of BMV RNA4 to outcompete BMV RNAs 1, 2, and 3 results, at least in part, from its ability to bind more efficiently to ribosomes.
The NaCl-insoluble (2.5 M, 0 degrees C) fraction of wheat embryo RNA (iRNA) can be labelled when wheat embryos are subjected to either short-term (0.5 h) or long-term (24 h) imbibition in a medium that contains tritium-labelled adenosine, guanosine, cytidine and uridine. Electrophoretic analyses reveal that, after short-term labelling, there is a broadly heterodisperse distribution of radioactivity in 'rapidly labelled' i[3H]RNA, but after long-term labelling, there is an essentially trimodal distribution of radioactivity in i[3H]RNA. End-group analyses reveal that, after short-term labelling, adenosine is the principal 3'-hydroxyl terminus in all centrifugal subfractions of 'rapidly labelled' i[3H]RNA, whereas cytidine (in 5.8S rRNA), guanosine (in 18S rRNA) and uridine (in 26S rRNA) are the principal 3'-hydroxyl termini in centrifugal subfractions of wheat embryo i[3H]RNA. Guanosine is also the principal 3'-hydroxyl terminus in the 18S rRNA of differentiating embryos excized from both monocotyledonous (wheat, barley, corn) and dicotyledonous (pea) seedlings. The implications that the end-group measurements may have for current views about the possible biochemical involvements of 3'-hydroxyl terminal sequences in both mRNA and 18SrRNA are subjects of discussion. Incidental to the principal investigation, an existing technique for analyzing the RNA contents of cellular materials has been appropriately modified to circumvent interference from uv-absorbing pigments, which, when present, prevent application of the method to plant materials.
The multipartite nature of the brome mosaic virus genome is described. Particular attention is given to the translation of the RNAs in cell-free extracts, from dry wheat seed embryos and commercial wheat germ. Such studies have demonstrated that the smallest RNA is a monocistronic message for coat protein. This cistron is also carried on the intermediate sized RNA, which also codes for a larger protein, of unknown function. Translation of the larger RNAs 1 and 2 is compared, incell-free extracts of wheat embryo and wheat germ. There is evidence that these RNAs may also be monocistronic messages for large polypeptides (molecular weight 100,000), indicating that there are few non-translatable regions on these RNAs. Some recent nucleotide sequence studies are described, including the ribosome binding site of the coat protein cistron, and the 3' termini of all four RNAs, which appear to be identical, at least over a region of 150 nucleotides.
Water stress inhibits the gibberellic acid (GA(3))-induced synthesis of alpha-amylase in aleurone layers of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Electron microscope evidence indicates that the effect of water stress induced by 0.6 M solutions of polyethylene glycol (PEG) is to reduce the binding of ribosomes to the endoplasmic reticulum. This was confirmed by sucrose density gradient centrifugation of polyribosome preparations from stressed cells. The reduction in polyribosome formation does not result from reduced ribosome activity as measured by [(3)H]peptidylpuromycin formation. Thus, calculation of percent active ribosomes shows that osmoticum has little effect on the ability of ribosomes to incorporate puromycin into nascent protein. Water stress does not cause a marked decrease in the total RNA level of aleurone cells. Estimates of total RNA in postmitochondrial supernatant fractions from stressed cells show only a reduction of 8-9% relative to the control. Membrane synthesis measured by [(14)C]choline incorporation is depressed by 15% in cells stressed with 0.6 M PEG for 2.5 hours.
Ascochyta lentis and Ascochyta rabiei are fungal pathogens affecting lentil and chickpea crops, respectively. They employ effector proteins to facilitate infection, and understanding the role of effector genes is crucial for unravelling host-pathogen interactions and developing disease-resistant crops. Traditional methods for studying effectors in lentil and chickpea face challenges, such as the ability to perform gene overexpression or knockout studies, due to the difficulty of effector protein infiltration and the limitations of using non-host plants for expression studies. Here, we introduce an alternative tool to enhance the genetic modification toolkit for A. lentis and A. rabiei by developing boscalid-resistant mutants using targeted mutations in the succinate dehydrogenase subunit B (SdhB). This allows for the generation of multiple gene knockouts and gene complementation in A. lentis, where previously only one selectable marker was available. By using the SdhB H277L mutation, we transformed both pathogens and successfully selected transformants using the fungicide boscalid as the selective agent. The method was validated through gene complementation studies of AlScd1 in A. lentis and ArPks1 in A. rabiei, restoring wild type melanin production phenotypes and demonstrating the utility of the new marker system. Additionally, we generated double knockouts in both pathogens, highlighting the potential for more sophisticated genetic studies. The boscalid resistance marker system described here represents a significant advancement in the functional genomics of Ascochyta species, providing a new tool for dissecting the molecular mechanisms underlying pathogenicity and host-pathogen interactions. This approach opens new avenues for research on disease management strategies for lentil and chickpea.
Eukaryotic organisms, including microbial members such as protists and green algae, utilize suites of transporter proteins to move essential metabolites across cell organelle membranes. Amongst these different transporter families, the mitochondrial carrier family (MCF) is one of the most diverse, encompassing essential NAD+ and ADP/ATP translocators, as well as amino acid, sugar and cofactor transporters. They are typically associated with the mitochondrial inner membrane, but some display more dynamic localization. Here, we perform a census of predicted MCF domains in the genome of the model diatom alga Phaeodactylum tricornutum, identifying a new family of three proteins (termed here and elsewhere "MCFc") with strong internal sequence conservation but limited similarity to other MCF proteins encoded in its genome. Considering both phylogenetic data and experimental localization, we posit that MCFc is widespread across algae with complex red chloroplasts alongside some primary green algae, and contains multiple subfamilies targeted to diatom mitochondria, plastids, and endomembranes. Finally, using data from Tara Oceans, we identify putative roles for MCFc in diatom cells, including a possible association of the plastid-targeted Phatr3_J46742 subfamily in cellular nitrate assimilation. Our data provide insights into the evolutionary diversification of the membrane transport mechanisms associated with diatoms and other eukaryotic algae.
This study identified and evaluated the expression of the AREB/ABF/ABI5 subfamily genes in chickpea and lentil, and revealed the major players involved in defense response to PEG-induced drought stress. Abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive element-binding protein/ABRE-binding factor/ABA-INSENSITIVE 5 (AREB/ABF/ABI5) subfamily proteins are major players in the ABA-mediated signaling pathway triggered by multiple stresses. AREB/ABF/ABI5 subfamily proteins belong to the basic-leucine zipper transcription factors that regulate the expression of several downstream defense genes to abiotic and biotic stresses. This protein set is highly targeted when trying to understand plant defense against abiotic stress or to improve plant tolerance to drought, cold, and salinity stresses. However, there is still very little information available about the genes of the AREB/ABF/ABI5 subfamily in chickpea and lentil. Herein, 8 chickpea and 9 lentil genes of the AREB/ABF/ABI5 subfamily were identified based on sequence analysis, and their expression levels were tested in a polyethylene glycol-induced drought experiment (20% PEG in Hoagland solution) using real-time RT-PCR and metadata analysis. Sequence analysis showed that members of this subfamily are highly conserved among themselves and with their orthologous genes in other closely related plant species. Overall, sequence data suggested that these genes may possess close or overlapping biological roles in regulating the transcription of abiotic stress-related defense genes. The meta-analysis from RNA-Seq datasets of unstressed plants showed that some members of this gene subfamily have a tissue-specific expression in both chickpea and lentil. Drought-contrasting chickpea and lentil cultivars showed that most AREB/ABF/ABI5 genes are modulated by PEG-induced drought. Furthermore, AREB/ABF/ABI5 genes had also a tendency for higher expression as cultivar tolerance increases. Therefore, this study identified the AREB/ABF/ABI5 subfamily genes in chickpea and lentil, and provides a comprehensive characterization of these members to support further focused research.
Flowering, the onset of reproductive development, marks a critical transition in the angiosperm life cycle. In the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, the process is tightly regulated by a complex network of approximately 300 genes organized into distinct pathways. This mini-review examines the genetic and molecular mechanisms regulating flowering time from an evolutionary perspective. Our analysis reveals that genes involved in the age and photoperiod pathways are evolutionarily ancient and highly conserved across bryophytes and vascular plants. In contrast, other regulatory modules appear to have evolved more recently, likely through the repurposing of existing genes or adaptations to environmental changes. We propose that future research should shift away from studying flowering regulation mechanisms in individual model plants to exploring the evolution of flowering time pathways and their underlying drivers. Adopting an evolutionary perspective may ultimately illuminate the fundamental principles governing the timing of reproductive development in plants.
Stem internode length determines height to first pod (HFP), an important trait for mechanical harvesting in legume crops. In the present study, this trait in lentil was (
Extracellular plant small RNAs (sRNAs) and/or double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) precursors act as triggers of RNAi in interacting filamentous pathogens. However, whether any of these extracellular RNA species direct gene silencing in plant-interacting bacteria remains unknown. Here, we show that Arabidopsis transgenic plants expressing sRNAs directed against virulence factors of a Pseudomonas syringae strain, reduce its pathogenesis. This Antibacterial Gene Silencing (AGS) phenomenon is directed by Dicer-Like (DCL)-dependent antibacterial sRNAs, but not cognate dsRNA precursors. Three populations of active extracellular sRNAs were recovered in the apoplast of these transgenic plants. The first one is mainly non-vesicular and associated with proteins, whereas the second one is located inside Extracellular Vesicles (EVs). Intriguingly, the third population is unbound to proteins and in a dsRNA form, unraveling functional extracellular free sRNAs (efsRNAs). Both Arabidopsis transgene- and genome-derived efsRNAs were retrieved inside bacterial cells. Finally, we show that salicylic acid (SA) promotes AGS, and that a substantial set of endogenous efsRNAs exhibits predicted bacterial targets that are down-regulated by SA biogenesis and/or signaling during infection. This study thus unveils an unexpected AGS phenomenon, which may have wider implications in the understanding of how plants regulate microbial transcriptome, microbial community composition and genome evolution of associated bacteria.
Seed dormancy is an adaptation that delays germination to prevent the start of this process during unsuitable conditions. It is crucial in wild species but its loss was selected during crop domestication to ensure a fast and uniform germination. Water uptake, or imbibition, is the first step of germination. In the Fabaceae family, seeds have physical dormancy, in which seed coats are impermeable to water. We used an interspecific cross between an elite lentil line (Lens culinaris) and a wild lentil (L. orientalis) to investigate the genetic basis of imbibition capacity through quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping and by using RNA from embryos and seed coats at different development stages, and phenotypic data of seed coat thickness (SCT) and proportion of imbibed seeds (PIS). Both characteristics were consistent throughout different years and locations, suggesting a hereditary component. QTL results suggest that they are each controlled by relatively few loci. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) within the QTL were considered candidate genes. Two glycosyl-hydrolase genes (a β-glucosidase and a β-galactosidase), which degrade complex polysaccharides in the cell wall, were found among the candidate genes, and one of them had a positive correlation (β-glucosidase) between gene expression and imbibition capacity, and the other gene (β-galactosidase) presented a negative correlation between gene expression and SCT.
Oncogenes drive cancer progression, but few are active exclusively in tumor cells. Connexins (Cxs), traditionally recognized as ion channel proteins, can localize to the nucleus and regulate gene expression, playing key roles in both physiological and pathological processes. Cx46, once thought to be restricted to the eye lens, has been implicated in tumor growth, though its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates the nuclear presence of Cx46 in cancer cells and its potential role as a transcriptional modulator. We employed ChIP-Seq, confocal immunofluorescence, and nuclear protein purification to assess Cx46 localization and DNA interactions. Functional assays were conducted to evaluate its effects on invasion, division, spheroid formation, and mesenchymal marker expression. Single-point mutations and molecular dynamics simulations were used to explore potential Cx46-DNA interactions. Cx46 mRNA upregulation was found in a variety of tumors compared to adjacent healthy tissue. In HeLa cells, which do not express Cx46, its transfection promoted proliferation, invasion and self-renewal capacity, cancer stem cell traits and mesenchymal features. Consistently, in Sk-Mel-2, which naturally express Cx46, reduced Cx46 expression led to a decrease in the similar parameters. In HeLa cells, nuclear Cx46 was detected in two forms, full length 46 kDa and a 30 kDa fragment (GJA3-30 k), ChIP-Seq experiments revealed that Cx46 binds to the DNA at intergenic and promoter regions, leading to the activation of oncogenic pathways. Molecular dynamics simulations suggest that GJA3-30 k dimerizes in a RAD50-like structure, forming stable DNA complexes. Cx46 and in some cases GJA3-30 k were detected in the nuclei of multiple cancer cell lines, including prostate, breast and skin cancers. Our findings reveal a novel nuclear role for Cx46 in cancer, demonstrating its function as a transcriptional regulator and its potential as a therapeutic target.
The corolla of flowering plants provides pivotal functions for the reproduction of angiosperms, directly impacting the fitness of individuals. Different petal shapes and patterns contribute to these functions and, thus, participate in the production of morphological diversity and the emergence of new species. During petal morphogenesis, the coordination of cell fate specification, cell division, and cell expansion is coherent and robust across the petal blade and is set according to proximo-distal, medio-lateral, and abaxial-adaxial axes. However, the mechanisms specifying petal polarity and controlling cell behavior in a position-dependent manner as petals develop remain poorly understood. In this review, we draw parallels with other evolutionarily related plant lateral organs such as leaves to argue that hormones likely play central, yet largely unexplored, roles in such coordination. By examining petal development in Arabidopsis and other angiosperms, we frame what are the knowns and the unknowns of hormones contributions to petal morphogenesis and patterning. Finally, we argue that using emerging model organisms can provide invaluable information to tackle questions that have long remained unanswered, broadening our understanding by allowing us to investigate petal morphogenesis and the tinkering of phytohormone signaling through an evolutionary lens.
Aluminium toxicity and phosphorus deficiency are co-existing characteristics of low pH stress that significantly affect the grain yield of crops. The increasing acidity of Indian soils potentially limits the cultivable area for lentil (Lens culinaris), the third most widely consumed pulse. Breeding for tolerance requires an understanding of interdependent biological responses, but the molecular characterization of integrated tolerance remains elusive. Therefore, this study aimed to integrate high aluminium and low phosphorus stress responsive associations across the genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics of multiple crop species. The overlapping molecular signatures were fine mapped to 23 candidates that serve multiple regulatory roles crucial for cellular homeostasis. Most of these genes have not been adequately discussed in the context of soil acidity tolerance. Thus, a multi-omics guided regulatory framework was developed to provide new insights into tolerance mechanisms. In silico genotyping of 29 lentil genotypes across 588 genes related to transomics loci yielded seven nonsynonymous and three synonymous variants likely associated with their differential response to stress. The results suggest comprehensive genotyping of multi-omics specific targets to identify potential candidates for marker-trait association studies. In conclusion, data-driven exploratory analysis of multi-omics variants highlights potential biomarkers as targets for genetically improving complex biological traits.
This review discusses the DNA and RNA methylation pathways and their biological roles in Rosaceae developmental processes relevant for breeding and production. The Rosaceae is a plant family of great importance for human nutrition and health. Many traits and developmental processes of the Rosaceae are influenced by epigenetic methylation, functions of which are now being unravelled in several important species of this family. Methylation of DNA at the 5th position of cytosine (5mC) is a well-established epigenetic mark that affects important cellular processes such as gene expression and genome stability and is involved in a wide range of plant biological functions. Further to this, recent technological advances have uncovered other naturally occurring chemical modifications of DNA and RNA as additional layers of regulatory epigenetic information in plants. In this review we give a comprehensive summary of plant 5-methylcytosine DNA methylation mechanisms and review their components identified in species of the Rosaceae family. We detail and discuss the role of 5mC DNA methylation dynamics in Rosaceae developmental processes, including phase transition, bud development, bud dormancy, plant architecture, plant regeneration, fruit development, ripening and senescence. We then review recent advances in understanding the newly identified nucleic acid modifications, N
The membrane transporters viz. multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) and aluminum-activated malate transporter (ALMT) are associated with aluminum (Al) tolerance by accelerating secretion of organic acids, which can influence nutrient availability and stress response. However, such transporter families have not yet been reported in lentil under Al stress condition. In this study, 90 MATE and 14 ALMT genes were identified and clustered into four (MATE) and five (ALMT) subfamilies/clades with smaller subgroups. All the MATE and ALMT genes were unevenly dispersed across lentil chromosomes. Duplication analysis suggested that LcMATE gene family has expanded primarily through tandem duplication event. Collinearity of lentil with soybean suggested a close relationship between the MATE genes. The MATE promoter regions harboured many stress responsive as well as Al resistance transcription factor 1 related cis-regulatory elements. Predicted 3D (three-dimensional) structure and molecular docking revealed that 5 LcMATE proteins could bind citrate and contain amino acids related to its secretion via citrate exuding motif and other neighbouring sites. Expression analyses of LcMATE and LcALMT genes were performed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Six genes namely, LcM1, LcM42, LcM46, LcM47, LcALMT8 and LcALMT14 responded to Al stress with varying levels of expression patterns at different time points (3, 6, 12 and 24 h). Our findings offer thorough details on the MATE and ALMT transporters in lentils and will aid in valuable understanding for future functional studies of these transporters in generating Al tolerant cultivars.
Soil water deficit (WD) significantly impacts plant survival and crop yields. Many gaps remain in our understanding of the synergistic coordination between molecular and ecophysiological responses delaying substantial drought-induced effects on plant growth. To investigate this synergism in tomato leaves, we combined molecular, ecophysiological, and anatomical methods to examine gene expression patterns and physio-anatomical characteristics during a progressing WD experiment. Four sampling points were selected for transcriptomic analysis based on the key ecophysiological responses of the tomato leaves: 4 and 5 days after WD (d-WD), corresponding to 10% and 90% decrease in leaf stomatal conductance; 8 d-WD, the leaf wilting point; and 10 d-WD, when air embolism blocks 12% of the leaf xylem water transport. At 4 d-WD, upregulated genes were mostly linked to ABA-independent responses, with larger-scale ABA-dependent responses occurring at 5 d-WD. At 8 d-WD, we observed an upregulation of heat shock transcription factors, and two days later (10 d-WD), we found a strong upregulation of oxidative stress transcription factors. Finally, we found that young leaves present a stronger dehydration tolerance than mature leaves at the same drought intensity level, presumably because young leaves upregulate genes related to increased callose deposition resulting in limiting water loss to the phloem, and related to increased cell rigidity by modifying cell wall structures. This combined dataset will serve as a framework for future studies that aim to obtain a more holistic WD plant response at the molecular, ecophysiological and anatomical level.
Mangroves adapt to periodical submergence and constitute resilient ecosystems in coastal environments. The question is whether they can sustain long submergence stress when sea level rises as a consequence of climate change. To address this, seedlings of two representative mangrove species that acclimate to low to mid tide (Avicennia marina) and mid to high tide (Kandelia obovata) conditions were treated with continual submergence for 7 days as extended hypoxia, or semi-diurnal cyclic submergence and reoxygenation for 7 days. At specific time points, leaves were collected to construct RNA-Sequencing libraries for gene expression analysis. Through the lens of transcriptome, the initial response of A. marina to submergence was mild but more dramatic after prolong immersion. However, the initial response of K. obovata was drastic and reduced in latitude later, suggesting distinct species-specific responses. After adapting to diurnal cycles, both species minimized transcriptome fluctuations similarly. Metabolically, during initial response, sucrose and starch were converted into glucose for fermentation to increase glycolytic flux, coupled with regeneration of NAD
As field crops are likely to be challenged by multiple pathogens during their development, the investigation of broad-spectrum resistance in the host is of great interest for crop genetic enhancement. In this study, we attempted to address this question by adopting a weighed gene co-expression approach to study the temporal transcriptome dynamics of resistant and susceptible recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from an intraspecific Len ervoides cross during the infection process with either the necrotrophic pathogens Ascochyta lentis or Stemphylium botryosum, or the hemibiotrophic pathogen Colletotrichum lentis. By comparing networks of resistant and susceptible RILs, seven network module pairs were found to possess high correlation coefficients (R > 0.70) and large number of overlapping genes (n > 100). The conserved co-regulation of genes in these network module pairs were involved in plant cell wall synthesis, cell division, cytoskeleton organization, and protein ubiquitin related processes and appeared to be common disease responses against these pathogens. On the other hand, we also identified eight modules with low correlation between resistance and susceptibility networks. Among those, a stronger gene co-expression in R-genes and small RNA processes in the resistant hosts may be enhancing L. ervoides resistance against A. lentis, C. lentis, and S. botryosum, whereas the higher level of synergistic regulation in the synthesis of arginine and glutamine and phospholipid and glycerophospholipids in the susceptible hosts may contribute to increased susceptibility in L. ervoides.
Seed aging poses a significant challenge to agronomic production and germplasm conservation. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are highly involved in the aging process. However, dynamic response of germination characteristics and antioxidant system to seed aging are not yet very clear. This study explored the potential physiological mechanisms responsible for the reduced and rapid loss of seed vigor in alfalfa, and identified key genes regulating seed vigor. The germination percentage exhibited a decreased trend with the prolongation of aging duration. From 16 to 32 days of aging, the antioxidant enzyme activities of SOD, POD, CAT, DHAR and MDHAR declined significantly, which lead to the disruption of ROS balance and a significant increase in ROS levels, exacerbating seed aging. Based on transcriptome, 29 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) including SOD1, APX-2 and GST-7 within the ROS scavenging system showed a significantly down-regulated expression trend at aging of 16 and 24 days, indicating the abnormal function of antioxidant metabolism. Furthermore, some related genes including ATPF1B, ATPeF0C-3, NDUFS1, NDUFS3 and ND2 in the mitochondrial ETC exhibited a downturn following seed aging, which would result in the losing of seed vigor. This study has uncovered a significant array of potential target genes within the seed antioxidant system and mitochondrial ETC. These discoveries offer a wider lens for delving into the molecular regulatory mechanisms of seed aging. Further research is crucial to comprehensively elucidate the precise pathways through which these pivotal genes regulate seed vigor.
The ancient kauri (Agathis australis) dominated forests of Aotearoa New Zealand are under threat from a multitude of ecological disturbances such as forest fragmentation, biodiversity loss, climate change, and the spread of the virulent soil pathogen Phytophthora agathidicida. Taking a wider ecosystem-level approach, our research aimed to explore the impacts of forest disturbance and disease outbreaks on the biosynthetic potential and taxonomic diversity of the kauri soil microbiome. We explored the diversity of secondary metabolite biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs) in soils from a range of kauri forests that varied according to historical disturbance and dieback expression. To characterise the diversity of microbial BGCs, we targeted the non-ribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) and polyketide synthetase (PKS) gene regions for sequencing using long-read PacBio® HiFi sequencing. Furthermore, the soil bacterial and fungal communities of each forest were characterized using 16 S rRNA and ITS gene region sequencing. We identified a diverse array of naturally occurring microbial BGCs in the kauri forest soils, which may offer promising targets for the exploration of secondary metabolites with anti-microbial activity against P. agathidicida. We detected differences in the number and diversity of microbial BGCs according to forest disturbance history. Notably, soils associated with the most undisturbed kauri forest had a higher number and diversity of microbial NRPS-type BGCs, which may serve as a potential indicator of natural levels of microbiome resistance to pathogen invasion. By linking patterns in microbial biosynthetic diversity to forest disturbance history, this research highlights the need for us to consider the influence of ecological disturbances in potentially predisposing forests to disease by impacting the wider health of forest soil ecosystems. Furthermore, by identifying the range of microbial BGCs present at a naturally high abundance in kauri soils, this research contributes to the future discovery of natural microbial compounds that may potentially enhance the disease resilience of kauri forests. The methodological approaches used in this study highlight the value of moving beyond a taxonomic lens when examining the response of microbial communities to ecosystem disturbance and the need to develop more functional measures of microbial community resilience to invasive plant pathogens.
Improving crop plants using biotechnological implications is a promising and modern approach compared to traditional methods. High-temperature exposure to the reproductive stage induces flower abortion and declines grain filling performance, leading to smaller grain production and low yield in lentil and other legumes. Thus, cloning effective candidate genes and their implication in temperature stress tolerance in lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.) using biotechnological tools is highly demandable. The 12-oxophytodienoic acid reductases (OPRs) are flavin mononucleotide-dependent oxidoreductases with vital roles in plants. They are members of the old yellow enzyme (OYE) family. These enzymes are involved in the octadecanoid pathway, which contributes to jasmonic acid biosynthesis and is essential in plant stress responses. Lentil is one of the vital legume crops affected by the temperature fluctuations caused by global warming. Therefore, in this study, the LcOPR1 gene was successfully cloned and isolated from lentils using RT-PCR to evaluate its functional responses in lentil under heat stress. The bioinformatics analysis revealed that the full-length cDNA of LcOPR1 was 1303 bp, containing an 1134 bp open reading frames (ORFs), encoding 377 amino acids with a predicted molecular weight of 41.63 and a theoretical isoelectric point of 5.61. Bioinformatics analyses revealed that the deduced LcOPR1 possesses considerable homology with other plant 12-oxophytodienoic acid reductases (OPRs). Phylogenetic tree analysis showed that LcOPR1 has an evolutionary relationship with other OPRs in different plant species of subgroup I, containing enzymes that are not required for jasmonic acid biosynthesis. The expression analysis of LcOPR1 indicated that this gene is upregulated in response to the heat-stress condition and during recovery in lentil. This study finding might be helpful to plant breeders and biotechnologists in LcOPR1 engineering and/or plant breeding programs in revealing the biological functions of LcOPR1 in lentils and the possibility of enhancing heat stress tolerance by overexpressing LcOPR1 in lentil and other legume plants under high temperature.
Plant memory plays an important role in the efficient and rapid acclimation to a swiftly changing environment. In addition, since plant memory can be inherited, it is also of adaptive and evolutionary importance. The ability of a plant to store, retain, retrieve and delete information on acquired experience is based on cellular, biochemical and molecular networks in the plants. This review offers an up-to-date overview on the formation, types, checkpoints of plant memory based on our current knowledge and focusing on its transcriptional aspects, the transcriptional memory. Roles of long and small non-coding RNAs are summarized in the regulation, formation and the cooperation between the different layers of the plant memory, i.e. in the establishment of epigenetic changes associated with memory formation in plants. The RNA interference mechanisms at the RNA and DNA level and the interplays between them are also presented. Furthermore, this review gives an insight of how exploitation of plant transcriptional memory may provide new opportunities for elaborating promising cost-efficient, and effective strategies to cope with the ever-changing environmental perturbations, caused by climate change. The potentials of plant memory-based methods, such as crop priming, cross acclimatization, memory modification by miRNAs and associative use of plant memory, in the future's agriculture are also discussed.
Inflorescence architecture is highly variable across plant lineages yet is critical for facilitating reproductive success. The capitulum-type inflorescence of the Asteraceae is marked as a key morphological innovation that preceded the family's diversification and expansion. Despite its evolutionary significance, our understanding of capitulum development and evolution is limited. This review highlights our current perspective on capitulum evolution through the lens of both its molecular and developmental underpinnings. We attempt to summarize our understanding of the capitulum by focusing on two key characteristics: patterning (arrangement of florets on a capitulum) and floret identity specification. Note that these two features are interconnected such that the identity of florets depends on their position along the inflorescence axis. Phytohormones such as auxin seemingly determine both pattern progression and floret identity specification through unknown mechanisms. Floret morphology in a head is controlled by differential expression of floral symmetry genes regulating floret identity specification. We briefly summarize the applicability of the ABCE quartet model of flower development in regulating the floret organ identity of a capitulum in Asteraceae. Overall, there have been promising advancements in our understanding of capitula; however, comprehensive functional genetic analyses are necessary to fully dissect the molecular pathways and mechanisms involved in capitulum development.
Weeds are significant factors that detrimentally affect crop health and hinder optimal herbage yield. Rhizosphere microorganisms play crucial roles in plant growth, development, and nutrient uptake. Therefore, research focusing on weed control through the lens of microorganisms has emerged as a prominent area of study. The oil-producing fungus In this study, we conducted inoculation experiments in a controlled artificial culture climate chamber to investigate the effects of differential hormones and differentially expressed genes in the stems and leaves of The results demonstrated that inoculation with
Developing early maturing lentil has the potential to minimize yield losses, mainly during terminal drought. Whole-genome resequencing (WGRS) based QTL-seq identified the loci governing earliness in lentil. The genetic analysis for maturity duration provided a good fit to 3:1 segregation (F
Adenosine triphosphate-binding cassette transporters (ABC transporters) are involved in regulating plant growth, development and tolerance to environmental stresses. In this study, a total of 138 ABC transporter genes were identified in the lentil genome that were classified into eight subfamilies. Four lentil ABC transporters from subfamily B and I were clustered together with the previously characterized ABC transporter proteins related to aluminium (Al) detoxification. Lentil ABC transporter genes were distributed across the chromosomes. Tandem duplication was the main driving force for expansion of the ABC gene family. Collinearity of lentil with soybean indicated that ABC gene family is closely linked to Glycine max. ABC genes in the same subfamily showed similar gene structure and conserved motifs. The ABC promoter regions harboured a large number of plant hormones and multiple stress responsive cis-regulatory elements. The qRT-PCR showed that ABC genes had varied expression in roots of lentil at different time points under Al stress. This is the first report on genome wide identification and expression analyses of genes encoding ABC transporter genes in lentil which has provided in-depth insight for future research on evolution and elucidation of molecular mechanisms for aluminium tolerance.
Aluminium (Al) toxicity causes major plant distress, affecting root growth, nutrient uptake and, ultimately, agricultural productivity. Lentil, which is a cheap source of vegetarian protein, is recognized to be sensitive to Al toxicity. Therefore, it is important to dissect the physiological and molecular mechanisms of Al tolerance in lentil. To understand the physiological system and proteome composition underlying Al tolerance, two genotypes [L-4602 (Al-tolerant) and BM-4 (Al-sensitive)] were studied at the seedling stage. L-4602 maintained a significantly higher root tolerance index and malate secretion with reduced Al accumulation than BM-4. Also, label-free proteomic analysis using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometer exhibited significant regulation of Al-responsive proteins associated with antioxidants, signal transduction, calcium homeostasis, and regulation of glycolysis in L-4602 as compared to BM-4. Functional annotation suggested that transporter proteins (transmembrane protein, adenosine triphosphate-binding cassette transport-related protein and multi drug resistance protein), antioxidants associated proteins (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide dependent oxidoreductase, oxidoreductase molybdopterin binding protein & peroxidases), kinases (calmodulin-domain kinase & protein kinase), and carbohydrate metabolism associated proteins (dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase) were found to be abundant in tolerant genotype providing protection against Al toxicity. Overall, the root proteome uncovered in this study at seedling stage, along with the physiological parameters measured, allow a greater understanding of Al tolerance mechanism in lentil, thereby assisting in future crop improvement programmes.
In light of expected climate change, it is important to seek nature-based solutions that can contribute to the protection of our planet as well as to help overcome the emerging adverse changes. In an agricultural context, increasing plant resistance to abiotic stress seems to be crucial. Therefore, the scope of the presented research was focused on the application of botanical extracts that exerted positive effects on model plants growing under controlled laboratory conditions, as well as plants subjected to sorbitol-induced osmotic stress. Foliar spraying increased the length and fresh mass of the shoots (e.g., extracts from
Chickpea (Cicer arietinum ) is a grain crop that is an important source of protein, vitamins, carbohydrates and minerals. It is highly sensitive to salt stress, and salt damage to cellular homeostasis and protein folding affects production. Plants have several mechanisms to prevent cellular damages under abiotic stresses, such as proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (protein isulfide somerases (PDIs) and PDI-like proteins), which help prevent the build-up of mis-folded proteins that are damaged under abiotic stresses. In this study, we completed initial comprehensive genome-wide analysis of the chickpea PDI gene family. We found eight PDI genes are distributed on six out of eight chromosomes. Two pairs of paralogous genes were found to have segmental duplications. The phylogenetic analysis showed that the PDI s have a high degree of homology in C. arietinum, Cicer reticulatum, Lens culinaris, Phaseolus acutifolius, Pisum sativum and Oryza sativa . The gene structure analysis displayed that CaPDI1-CaPDI8 have 9-12 exons except for CaPDI5 , which has 25 exons. Subcellular localisation indicated accumulation of CaPDIs in endoplasmic reticulum. Protein-conserved motifs and domain analysis demonstrated that thioredoxin domains of PDI family is present in all CaPDIs. CaPDI proteins have strong protein-protein interaction. In silico expression analysis showed that four out of eight PDI genes (CPDI2, CaPDI6, CaPDI7 and CaPDI8 ) were expressed under salt stress. Of these, expression of CaPDI2 and CaPDI8 was the highest. This work indicated that PDI genes are involved in salt stress tolerance in chickpea and the CaPDIs may be further studied for their role of inducing salt tolerance.
Since its first identification in the 1950s as a regulator of cell division, cytokinin has been linked to many physiological processes in plants, spanning growth and development and various responses to the environment. Studies from the last two and one-half decades have revealed the pathways underlying the biosynthesis and metabolism of cytokinin and have elucidated the mechanisms of its perception and signaling, which reflects an ancient signaling system evolved from two-component elements in bacteria. Mutants in the genes encoding elements involved in these processes have helped refine our understanding of cytokinin functions in plants. Further, recent advances have provided insight into the mechanisms of intracellular and long-distance cytokinin transport and the identification of several proteins that operate downstream of cytokinin signaling. Here, we review these processes through a historical lens, providing an overview of cytokinin metabolism, transport, signaling, and functions in higher plants.
Since they emerged approximately 125 million years ago, flowering plants have evolved to dominate the terrestrial landscape and survive in the most inhospitable environments on earth. At their core, these adaptations have been shaped by changes in numerous, interconnected pathways and genes that collectively give rise to emergent biological phenomena. Linking gene expression to morphological outcomes remains a grand challenge in biology, and new approaches are needed to begin to address this gap. Here, we implemented topological data analysis (TDA) to summarize the high dimensionality and noisiness of gene expression data using lens functions that delineate plant tissue and stress responses. Using this framework, we created a topological representation of the shape of gene expression across plant evolution, development, and environment for the phylogenetically diverse flowering plants. The TDA-based Mapper graphs form a well-defined gradient of tissues from leaves to seeds, or from healthy to stressed samples, depending on the lens function. This suggests that there are distinct and conserved expression patterns across angiosperms that delineate different tissue types or responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. Genes that correlate with the tissue lens function are enriched in central processes such as photosynthetic, growth and development, housekeeping, or stress responses. Together, our results highlight the power of TDA for analyzing complex biological data and reveal a core expression backbone that defines plant form and function.
SMAX/SMXL family genes were successfully identified and characterized in the chickpea and lentil and gene expression data revealed several genes associated with the modulation of plant branching and powerful targets for use in transgenesis and genome editing. Strigolactones (SL) play essential roles in plant growth, rooting, development, and branching, and are associated with plant resilience to abiotic and biotic stress conditions. Likewise, karrikins (KAR) are "plant smoke-derived molecules" that act in a hormonal signaling pathway similar to SL playing an important role in seed germination and hairy root elongation. The SMAX/SMXL family genes are part of these two signaling pathways, in addition to some of these members acting in a still little known SL- and KAR-independent signaling pathway. To date, the identification and functional characterization of the SMAX/SMXL family genes has not been performed in the chickpea and lentil. In this study, nine SMAX/SMXL genes were systematically identified and characterized in the chickpea and lentil, and their expression profiles were explored under different unstressless or different stress conditions. After a comprehensive in silico characterization of the genes, promoters, proteins, and protein-protein interaction network, the expression profile for each gene was determined using a meta-analysis from the RNAseq datasets and complemented with real-time PCR analysis. The expression profiles of the SMAX/SMXL family genes were very dynamic in different chickpea and lentil organs, with some genes assuming a tissue-specific expression pattern. In addition, these genes were significantly modulated by different stress conditions, indicating that SMAX/SMXL genes, although working in three distinct signaling pathways, can act to modulate plant resilience. Most CaSMAX/SMXL and partner genes such as CaTiE1 and CaLAP1, have a positive correlation with the plant branching level, while most LcSMAX/SMXL genes were less correlated with the plant branching level. The SMXL6, SMXL7, SMXL8, TiE1, LAP1, BES1, and BRC1 genes were highlighted as powerful targets for use in transgenesis and genome editing aiming to develop chickpea and lentil cultivars with improved architecture. Therefore, this study presented a detailed characterization of the SMAX/SMXL genes in the chickpea and lentil, and provided new insights for further studies focused on each SMAX/SMXL gene.
Lentil is an essential cool-season food legume that offers several benefits in human nutrition and cropping systems. Drought stress is the major environmental constraint affecting lentil plants' growth and productivity by altering various morphological, physiological, and biochemical traits. Our previous research provided physiological and biochemical evidence showing the role of silicon (Si) in alleviating drought stress in lentil plants, while the molecular mechanisms are still unidentified. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of Si-mediated drought stress tolerance can provide fundamental information to enhance our knowledge of essential gene functions and pathways modulated by Si during drought stress in plants. Thus, the present study compared the transcriptomic characteristics of two lentil genotypes (drought tolerant-ILL6002; drought sensitive-ILL7537) under drought stress and investigated the gene expression in response to Si supplementation using high-throughput RNA sequencing. This study identified 7164 and 5576 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from drought-stressed lentil genotypes (ILL 6002 and ILL 7537, respectively), with Si treatment. RNA sequencing results showed that Si supplementation could alter the expression of genes related to photosynthesis, osmoprotection, antioxidant systems and signal transduction in both genotypes under drought stress. Furthermore, these DEGs from both genotypes were found to be associated with the metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids and proteins. The identified DEGs were also linked to cell wall biosynthesis and vasculature development. Results suggested that Si modulated the dynamics of biosynthesis of alkaloids and flavonoids and their metabolism in drought-stressed lentil genotypes. Drought-recovery-related DEGs identified from both genotypes validated the role of Si as a drought stress alleviator. This study identified different possible defense-related responses mediated by Si in response to drought stress in lentil plants including cellular redox homeostasis by reactive oxygen species (ROS), cell wall reinforcement by the deposition of cellulose, lignin, xyloglucan, chitin and xylan, secondary metabolites production, osmotic adjustment and stomatal closure. Overall, the results suggested that a coordinated interplay between various metabolic pathways is required for Si to induce drought tolerance. This study identified potential genes and different defence mechanisms involved in Si-induced drought stress tolerance in lentil plants. Si supplementation altered various metabolic functions like photosynthesis, antioxidant defence system, osmotic balance, hormonal biosynthesis, signalling, amino acid biosynthesis and metabolism of carbohydrates and lipids under drought stress. These novel findings validated the role of Si in drought stress mitigation and have also provided an opportunity to enhance our understanding at the genomic level of Si's role in alleviating drought stress in plants.
The challenge of mitigating the decline in both yield and fruit quality due to the intrusion of powdery mildew (PM) fungus looms as a pivotal concern in the domain of bitter melon cultivation. Yet, the intricate mechanisms that underlie resistance against this pathogen remain inscrutable for the vast majority of bitter melon variants. In this inquiry, we delve deeply into the intricate spectrum of physiological variations and transcriptomic fluctuations intrinsic to the PM-resistant strain identified as '04-17-4' (R), drawing a sharp contrast with the PM-susceptible counterpart, designated as '25-15' (S), throughout the encounter with the pathogenic agent
Fusarium wilt is a major threat to lentil production in India and worldwide. The presence of evolving virulent races has imposed the necessity of reliable management practices including breeding for resistance using unexplored germplasms. The magnitude of resistance by the plant is determined by rapid recognition of the pathogen and induction of defence genes. Resistance gene analogues have been key factors involved in the recognition and induction of defence response. In the present study, the expression of key RGA previously cloned was determined in three resistant accessions (L65, L83 and L90) and a susceptible accession (L27). The expression was assessed via qPCR at 24, 48 and 72 hpi against virulent race5 (CG-5). All the RGAs differentially transcribed in resistant and susceptible accession showed temporal variation. RGA Lc2, Lc8, Ln1 and Lo6 produced cDNA signals during early infection (24 hpi) predicting its involvement in recognition. LoRGA6 showed significant upregulation in L65 and L83 while downregulating in L27 and the full length of LoRGA6 loci was isolated by 5' and 3' RACE PCR. In-silico characterization revealed LoRGA6 loci code for 912 amino acids long polypeptide with a TIR motif at the N terminal and eight LRR motifs at the C terminal. The tertiary structure revealed a concave pocket-like structure at the LRR domain potentially involved in pathogen effectors interaction. The loci have ADP binding domain and ATPase activity. This has further paved the path for functional analysis of the loci by VIGS to understand the molecular mechanism of resistance.
Lens lamottei is a member of the Fabaceae family and the second gene pool of the genus Lens. The environmental factors that drove the divergence among wild and cultivated species have been studied extensively. Recent research has focused on genomic signatures associated with various phenotypes with the acceleration of next-generation techniques in molecular profiling. Therefore, in this study, we provide the complete sequence of the chloroplast genome sequence in the wild Lens species L. lamottei with a deep coverage of 713 × next-generation sequencing (NGS) data for the first time. Compared to the cultivated species, Lens culinaris, we identified synonymous, and nonsynonymous changes in the protein-coding regions of the genes ndhB, ndhF, ndhH, petA, rpoA, rpoC2, rps3, and ycf2 in L. lamottei. Phylogenetic analysis of chloroplast genomes of various plants under Leguminosae revealed that L. lamottei and L. culinaris are closest to one another than to other species. The complete chloroplast genome of L. lamottei also allowed us to reanalyze previously published transcriptomic data, which showed high levels of gene expression for ATP-synthase, rubisco, and photosystem genes. Overall, this study provides a deeper insight into the diversity of Lens species and the agricultural importance of these plants through their chloroplast genomes.
Carotenoid cleavage dioxygenase (CCD) gene family is organized in two subfamilies: (i) 9-cis epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (NCED) genes and (ii) CCD genes. NCED genes are essential for catalyzing the first step of the abscisic-acid (ABA) biosynthesis, while CCD genes produce precursors of the strigolactones hormone. The functional characterization of these gene subfamilies has not been yet performed in chickpea and lentil. Herein, were identified and systematically characterized two NCED and five CCD genes in the chickpea and two NCED and six CCD genes in lentil. After in silico sequence analysis and phylogeny, the expression profile of the NCED/CCD genes was determined by meta-analysis and real-time PCR in plants under different stress conditions. Sequence data revealed that NCED/CCD genes are highly conserved between chickpea and lentil. This conservation was observed both at gene and protein sequence levels and phylogenetic relationships. Analysis of the promoter sequences revealed that all NCED/CCD genes have a considerable number of cis-regulatory elements responsive to biotic and abiotic stress. Protein sequence analysis evidenced that NCED/CCD genes share several conserved motifs and that they have a highly interconnected interaction network. Furthermore, the three-dimensional structure of these proteins was determined and indicated that some proteins have structures with considerable similarity. The meta-analysis revealed that NCED/CCD genes are dynamically modulated in different organs and under different stress conditions, but they have a positive correlation with plant tolerance. In accordance, real-time PCR data showed that both NCED and CCD genes are differentially modulated in plants under drought stress. In particular, CaNCED2, CaCCD5, LcNCED2, LcCCD1, and LcCCD2 genes have a positive correlation with improved plant tolerance to drought stress. Therefore, this study presented a detailed characterization of the chickpea and lentil NCED/CCD genes and provided new insights to improve abiotic stress tolerance in these two important crops.
While genomes were originally seen as static entities that stably held and organized genetic information, recent advances in sequencing have uncovered the dynamic nature of the genome. New conceptualizations of the genome include complex relationships between the environment and gene expression that must be maintained, regulated, and sometimes even transmitted over generations. The discovery of epigenetic mechanisms has allowed researchers to understand how traits like phenology, plasticity, and fitness can be altered without changing the underlying deoxyribonucleic acid sequence. While many discoveries were first made in animal systems, plants provide a particularly complex set of epigenetic mechanisms due to unique aspects of their biology and interactions with human selective breeding and cultivation. In the plant kingdom, annual plants have received the most attention; however, perennial plants endure and respond to their environment and human management in distinct ways. Perennials include crops such as almond, for which epigenetic effects have long been linked to phenomena and even considered relevant for breeding. Recent discoveries have elucidated epigenetic phenomena that influence traits such as dormancy and self-compatibility, as well as disorders like noninfectious bud failure, which are known to be triggered by the environment and influenced by inherent aspects of the plant. Thus, epigenetics represents fertile ground to further understand almond biology and production and optimize its breeding. Here, we provide our current understanding of epigenetic regulation in plants and use almond as an example of how advances in epigenetics research can be used to understand biological fitness and agricultural performance in crop plants.
The use of molecular breeding approaches for development of lentil genotypes biofortified with essential micro-nutrients such as iron and zinc, could serve as a promising solution to address the problem of global malnutrition. Thus, genome-wide association study (GWAS) strategy was adopted in this study to identify the genomic regions associated with seed iron and zinc content in lentil. A panel of 95 diverse lentil genotypes, grown across three different geographical locations and evaluated for seed iron and zinc content, exhibited a wide range of variation. Genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) analysis of the panel identified 33,745 significant single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that were distributed across all the 7 lentil chromosomes. Association mapping revealed 23 SNPs associated with seed iron content that were distributed across all the chromosomes except chromosome 3. Similarly, 14 SNPs associated with seed zinc content were also identified that were distributed across chromosomes 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6. Further, 80 genes were identified in the proximity of iron associated markers and 36 genes were identified in the proximity of zinc associated markers. Functional annotation of these genes revealed their putative involvement in iron and zinc metabolism. For seed iron content, two highly significant SNPs were found to be located within two putative candidate genes namely iron-sulfur cluster assembly (ISCA) and flavin binding monooxygenase (FMO) respectively. For zinc content, a highly significant SNP was detected in a gene encoding UPF0678 fatty acid-binding protein. Expression analysis of these genes and their putative interacting partners suggests their involvement in iron and zinc metabolism in lentil. Overall, in this study we have identified markers, putative candidate genes and predicted putative interacting protein partners significantly associated with iron and zinc metabolism that could be utilized in future breeding studies of lentil for nutrient biofortification.
Apples grown in high heat, high light, and low humidity environments are at risk for sun injury disorders like sunburn and associated crop losses. Understanding the physiological and molecular mechanisms underlying sunburn will support improvement of mitigation strategies and breeding for more resilient varieties. Numerous studies have highlighted key biochemical processes involved in sun injury, such as the phenylpropanoid and reactive oxygen species (ROS) pathways, demonstrating both enzyme activities and expression of related genes in response to sunburn conditions. Most previous studies have focused on at-harvest activity of a small number of genes in response to heat stress. Thus, it remains unclear how stress events earlier in the season affect physiology and gene expression. Here, we applied heat stress to mid-season apples in the field and collected tissue along a time course-24, 48, and 72 h following a heat stimulus-to investigate dynamic gene expression changes using a transcriptomic lens. We found a relatively small number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and enriched functional terms in response to heat treatments. Only a few of these belonged to pathways previously described to be involved in sunburn, such as the AsA-GSH pathway, while most DEGs had not yet been implicated in sunburn or heat stress in pome fruit.
Polyploidy is a persistent phenomenon in angiosperm genome evolution that is hypothesized to have contributed to the diversity of extant flowering plants. Brassica napus, one of the world's most important angiosperm oilseed species, originated from the interspecific hybridization of Brassica rapa (A
Lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.) is a nutritious legume with seeds rich in protein, minerals and an array of diverse specialized metabolites. The formation of a seed requires regulation and tight coordination of developmental programs to form the embryo, endosperm and seed coat compartments, which determines the structure and composition of mature seed and thus its end-use quality. Understanding the molecular and cellular events and metabolic processes of seed development is essential for improving lentil yield and seed nutritional value. However, such information remains largely unknown, especially at the seed compartment level. In this study, we generated high-resolution spatiotemporal gene expression profiles in lentil embryo, seed coat and whole seeds from fertilization through maturation. Apart from anatomic differences between the embryo and seed coat, comparative transcriptomics and weighted gene co-expression network analysis revealed embryo- and seed coat-specific genes and gene modules predominant in specific tissues and stages, which highlights distinct genetic programming. Furthermore, we investigated the dynamic profiles of flavonoid, isoflavone, phytic acid and saponin in seed compartments across seed development. Coupled with transcriptome data, we identified sets of candidate genes involved in the biosynthesis of these metabolites. The global view of the transcriptional and metabolic changes of lentil seed tissues throughout development provides a valuable resource for dissecting the genetic control of secondary metabolism and development of molecular tools for improving seed nutritional quality.
Describing, naming and understanding the tissues and cell types composing biological organisms underpin myriad research endeavours in the biosciences. This is obvious when the organismal structure is a direct subject of the investigation such as in analyses of structure-function relationships. However, it also applies when structure represents the context. Gene expression networks and physiological processes cannot be divorced from the spatial and structural framework of the organs in which they operate. Atlases of anatomy and a precise vocabulary are therefore key tools on which modern scientific endeavours in the life sciences are based. One of the seminal authors whose books are familiar to nearly everyone in the plant biology community is Katherine Esau (1898-1997), a phenomenal plant anatomist and microscopist whose textbooks are still used daily around the world - 70 years after their first publication. Several technical innovations in microscopy have emerged since Esau's time and plant biological studies by authors who were trained using her books are shown side-by-side with Esau's drawings.
β-Chitin has important ecological and physiological roles and potential for widespread applications, but the characterization of chitin-related enzymes from β-chitin producers was rarely reported. Querying against the
Long non-coding (lnc)RNAs have been shown to have central roles in stress responses, cell identity and developmental processes in multicellular organisms as well as in unicellular fungi. Previous works have shown the occurrence of lncRNAs in diatoms, namely in Phaeodactylum tricornutum, many of which being expressed under specific stress conditions. Interestingly, P. tricornutum is the only known diatom that has a demonstrated morphological plasticity, occurring in three distinct morphotypes: fusiform, triradiate and oval. Although the morphotypes are interchangeable, the fusiform is the dominant one while both the triradiate and the oval forms are less common, the latter often being associated with stress conditions such as low salinity and solid culture media, amongst others. Nonetheless, the molecular basis underpinning morphotype identity in P. tricornutum remains elusive. Using twelve previously published transcriptomic datasets originating from the three morphotypes of P. tricornutum, we sought to investigate the expression patterns of lncRNAs (lincRNAs and NATs) in these distinct morphotypes, using pairwise comparisons, in order to explore the putative involvement of these noncoding molecules in morphotype identity. We found that differentially expressed lncRNAs cluster according to morphotype, indicating that lncRNAs are not randomly expressed, but rather seem to provide a specific (noncoding) transcriptomic signature of the morphotype. We also present evidence to suggest that the major differences in DE genes (both noncoding and coding) between the stress related oval morphotype and the most common fusiform morphotype could be due, to a large extent, to the hyposaline culture conditions rather than to the morphotype itself. However, several lncRNAs associated to each one of the three morphotypes were identified, which could have a potential role in morphotype (or cell) identity in P. tricornutum, similar to what has been found in both animals and plant development.
Soil-borne cereal mosaic virus (SBCMV) is a furovirus with rigid rod-shaped particles containing an ssRNA genome, transmitted by
The synergy between drought-responsive traits across different organs is crucial in the whole-plant mechanism influencing drought resilience. These organ interactions, however, are poorly understood, limiting our understanding of drought response strategies at the whole-plant level. Therefore, we need more integrative studies, especially on herbaceous species that represent many important food crops but remain underexplored in their drought response. We investigated inflorescence stems and rosette leaves of six Arabidopsis thaliana genotypes with contrasting drought tolerance, and combined anatomical observations with hydraulic measurements and gene expression studies to assess differences in drought response. The soc1ful double mutant was the most drought-tolerant genotype based on its synergistic combination of low stomatal conductance, largest stomatal safety margin, more stable leaf water potential during non-watering, reduced transcript levels of drought stress marker genes, and reduced loss of chlorophyll content in leaves, in combination with stems showing the highest embolism resistance, most pronounced lignification, and thickest intervessel pit membranes. In contrast, the most sensitive Cvi ecotype shows the opposite extreme of the same set of traits. The remaining four genotypes show variations in this drought syndrome. Our results reveal that anatomical, ecophysiological, and molecular adaptations across organs are intertwined, and multiple (differentially combined) strategies can be applied to acquire a certain level of drought tolerance.
Market class, cooking time, quality, and milled grain yield are largely influenced by the seed size and shape of the lentil (
The present study explored the impact of inhibiting α(1,6)fucosylation (core fucosylation) on the functional phenotype of a cellular model of colorectal cancer (CRC) malignization formed by the syngeneic SW480 and SW620 CRC lines. Expression of the
Fenugreek (Trigonella foenum-graecum L.) is a self-pollinated leguminous crop belonging to the Fabaceae family. It is a multipurpose crop used as herb, spice, vegetable and forage. It is a traditional medicinal plant in India attributed with several nutritional and medicinal properties including antidiabetic and anticancer. We have performed a combined transcriptome assembly from RNA sequencing data derived from leaf, stem and root tissues. Around 209,831 transcripts were deciphered from the assembly of 92% completeness and an N50 of 1382 bases. Whilst secondary metabolites of medicinal value, such as trigonelline, diosgenin, 4-hydroxyisoleucine and quercetin, are distributed in several tissues, we report transcripts that bear sequence signatures of enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of such metabolites and are highly expressed in leaves, stem and roots. One of the antidiabetic alkaloid, trigonelline and its biosynthesising enzyme, is highly abundant in leaves. These findings are of value to nutritional and the pharmaceutical industry.
Lentil is an important pulse crop not only because of its high nutrient value but also because of its ecological advantage in a sustainable agricultural system. Our previous work showed that the cultivated lentil and wild lentil germplasm respond differently to light environments, especially to low R/FR-induced shade conditions. Little is known about how cultivated and wild lentils respond to shade at the level of gene expression and function. In this study, transcriptomic profiling of a cultivated lentil (Lupa,
Dietary fibers exhibit well-known beneficial effects on human health, but their anti-infectious properties against enteric pathogens have been poorly investigated. Enterotoxigenic
Lentils provide a rich plant-based protein source and staple food in many parts of the world. Despite numerous nutritional benefits, lentil seeds also possess undesirable elements, such as anti-nutritional factors. Understanding the genetic networks of seed metabolism is of great importance for improving the seed nutritional profile. We applied RNA sequencing analysis to survey the transcriptome of developing lentil seeds and compared this with that of the pod shells and leaves. In total, we identified 2622 genes differentially expressed among the tissues examined. Genes preferentially expressed in seeds were enriched in the Gene Ontology (GO) terms associated with development, nitrogen and carbon (N/C) metabolism and lipid synthesis. We further categorized seed preferentially expressed genes based on their involvement in storage protein production, starch accumulation, lipid and suberin metabolism, phytate, saponin and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis. The availability of transcript profile datasets on lentil seed metabolism and a roadmap of candidate genes presented here will be of great value for breeding strategies towards further improvement of lentil seed quality traits.
Modern-day domesticated lentil germplasm is generally considered to form three broad adaptation groups: Mediterranean, South Asian, and northern temperate, which correspond to the major global production environments. Reproductive phenology plays a key role in lentil adaptation to this diverse ecogeographic variation. Here, we dissect the characteristic earliness of the pilosae ecotype, suited to the typically short cropping season of South Asian environments. We identified two loci, DTF6a and DTF6b, at which dominant alleles confer early flowering, and we show that DTF6a alone is sufficient to confer early flowering under extremely short photoperiods. Genomic synteny confirmed the presence of a conserved cluster of three florigen (FT) gene orthologues among potential candidate genes, and expression analysis in near-isogenic material showed that the early allele is associated with a strong derepression of the FTa1 gene in particular. Sequence analysis revealed a 7.4 kb deletion in the FTa1-FTa2 intergenic region in the pilosae parent, and a wide survey of >350 accessions with diverse origin showed that the dtf6a allele is predominant in South Asian material. Collectively, these results contribute to understanding the molecular basis of global adaptation in lentil, and further emphasize the importance of this conserved genomic region for adaptation in temperate legumes generally.
Understanding the development of tissues, organs and entire organisms through the lens of single-cell genomics has revolutionized developmental biology. Although single-cell transcriptomics has been pioneered in animal systems, from an experimental perspective, plant development holds some distinct advantages: cells do not migrate in relation to one another, and new organ formation (of leaves, roots, flowers, etc.) continues post-embryonically from persistent stem cell populations known as meristems. For a time, plant studies lagged behind animal or cell culture-based, single-cell approaches, largely owing to the difficulty in dissociating plant cells from their rigid cell walls. Recent intensive development of single-cell and single-nucleus isolation techniques across plant species has opened up a wide range of experimental approaches. This has produced a rapidly expanding diversity of information across tissue types and species, concomitant with the creative development of methods. In this brief Spotlight, we highlight some of the technical developments and how they have led to profiling single-cell genomics in various plant organs. We also emphasize the contribution of single-cell genomics in revealing developmental trajectories among different cell types within plant organs. Furthermore, we present efforts toward comparative analysis of tissues and organs at a single-cell level. Single-cell genomics is beginning to generate comprehensive information relating to how plant organs emerge from stem cell populations.
Alkaline soils cause low productivity in crop plants including lentil. Alkalinity adaptation strategies in lentil were revealed when morpho-anatomical and physio-biochemical observations were correlated with transcriptomics analysis in tolerant (PDL-1) and sensitive (L-4076) cultivars at seedling stage. PDL-1 had lesser salt injury and performed better as compared to L-4076. Latter showed severe wilting symptoms and higher accumulation of Na Phyto-hormones biosynthesis-predominantly through ABA signalling, and secondary metabolism are the most potent pathways for alkalinity stress tolerance in lentil. Cultivar PDL-1 exhibited high tolerance towards alkalinity stress and can be used in breeding programmes for improving lentil production under alkalinity stress conditions.
Kaempferol is a well-known antioxidant found in many plants and plant-based foods. In plants, kaempferol is present mainly in the form of glycoside derivatives. In this work, we focused on determining the effect of kaempferol and its glycoside derivatives on the expression level of genes related to the reduction of oxidative stress-
Necrotrophic pathogens are responsible for significant declines in crop yield and quality worldwide. During the infection process, a pathogen releases a series of secretory proteins to counteract the plant immune system, and this interaction of pathogen and host molecules determines whether the pathogen will successfully invade the host plant tissues. In this study, we adopted co-transcriptomic approaches to analyze the
Capsella bursa-pastoris (L.) Medic. (CBP) is a cruciferous plant valuable in reducing fever, improving eyesight and calming the liver. This herb was recorded in the Compendium of Materia Medica for cataract treatment. To determine the effects and mechanism of CBP on cataract prevention and treatment using a selenite cataract model. The main compounds in CBP extract were analyzed by UPLC, CBPF significantly alleviated the development of cataract by decreasing the MDA level and increasing the GSH-Px and SOD levels in the lens. It also inhibited H CBPF exerts a significant preventive effect on cataract development by regulating the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway of the lens epithelial cells. It is thus a potent traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) whose application should be further developed for the clinical treatment of cataract.
Extreme temperature is one of the serious threats to crop production in present and future scenarios of global climate changes. Lentil (Lens culinaris) is an important crop, and there is a serious lack of genetic information regarding environmental and temperature stresses responses. This study is the first report of evaluation of key genes and molecular mechanisms related to temperature stresses in lentil using the RNA sequencing technique. De novo transcriptome assembly created 44,673 contigs and differential gene expression analysis revealed 7494 differentially expressed genes between the temperature stresses and control group. Basic annotation of generated transcriptome assembly in our study led to the identification of 2765 novel transcripts that have not been identified yet in lentil genome draft v1.2. In addition, several unigenes involved in mechanisms of temperature sensing, calcium and hormone signaling and DNA-binding transcription factor activity were identified. Also, common mechanisms in response to temperature stresses, including the proline biosynthesis, the photosynthetic light reactions balancing, chaperone activity and circadian rhythms, are determined by the hub genes through the protein-protein interaction networks analysis. Deciphering the mechanisms of extreme temperature tolerance would be a new way for developing crops with enhanced plasticity against climate change. In general, this study has identified set of mechanisms and various genes related to cold and heat stresses which will be useful in better understanding of the lentil's reaction to temperature stresses.
The bowfin (Amia calva) is a ray-finned fish that possesses a unique suite of ancestral and derived phenotypes, which are key to understanding vertebrate evolution. The phylogenetic position of bowfin as a representative of neopterygian fishes, its archetypical body plan and its unduplicated and slowly evolving genome make bowfin a central species for the genomic exploration of ray-finned fishes. Here we present a chromosome-level genome assembly for bowfin that enables gene-order analyses, settling long-debated neopterygian phylogenetic relationships. We examine chromatin accessibility and gene expression through bowfin development to investigate the evolution of immune, scale, respiratory and fin skeletal systems and identify hundreds of gene-regulatory loci conserved across vertebrates. These resources connect developmental evolution among bony fishes, further highlighting the bowfin's importance for illuminating vertebrate biology and diversity in the genomic era.
Raffinose, stachyose and verbascose form the three major members of the raffinose family oligosaccharides (RFO) accumulated during seed development. Raffinose synthase (RS; EC 2.4.1.82) and stachyose synthase (STS; EC 2.4.1.67) have been associated with raffinose and stachyose synthesis, but the precise mechanism for verbascose synthesis is not well understood. In this study, full-length RS (2.7 kb) and STS (2.6 kb) clones were isolated by screening a cDNA library prepared from developing lentil seeds (18, 20, 22 and 24 days after flowering [DAF]) to understand the roles of RS and STS in RFO accumulation in developing lentil seeds. The nucleotide sequences of RS and STS genes were similar to those reported for Pisum sativum. Patterns of transcript accumulation, enzyme activities and RFO concentrations were also comparable to P. sativum. However, during lentil seed development raffinose, stachyose and verbascose accumulation corresponded to transcript accumulation for RS and STS, with peak transcript abundance occurring at about 22-24 DAF, generally followed by a sequential increase in raffinose, stachyose and verbascose concentrations followed by a steady level thereafter. Enzyme activities for RS, STS and verbascose synthase (VS) also indicated a sudden increase at around 24-26 DAF, but with an abrupt decline again coinciding with the subsequent steady state increase in the RFO. Galactan:galactan galactosyl transferase (GGT), the galactinol-independent pathway enzyme, however, exhibited steady increase in activity from 24 DAF onwards before abruptly decreasing at 34 DAF. Although GGT activity was detected, isolation of a GGT sequence from the cDNA library was not successful.
β-Chitin produced by diatoms is expected to have significant economic and ecological value due to its structure, which consists of parallel chains of chitin, its properties and the high abundance of diatoms. Nevertheless, few studies have functionally characterised chitin-related genes in diatoms owing to the lack of omics-based information. In this study, we first compared the chitin content of three representative
Flowering time is important due to its roles in plant adaptation to different environments and subsequent formation of crop yield. Changes in light quality affect a range of developmental processes including flowering time, but little is known about light quality-induced flowering time control in lentil. This study aims to investigate the genetic basis for differences in flowering response to light quality in lentil. We explored variation in flowering time caused by changes in red/far-red-related light quality environments of a lentil interspecific recombinant inbred line (RIL) population developed from a cross between Lens culinaris cv. Lupa and L. orientalis accession BGE 016880. A genetic linkage map was constructed and then used for identifying quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with flowering time regulation under different light quality environments. Differential gene expression analysis through transcriptomic study and RT-qPCR were used to identify potential candidate genes. QTL mapping located 13 QTLs controlling flower time under different light quality environments, with phenotypic variance explained ranging from 1.7 to 62.9 %. Transcriptomic profiling and gene expression analysis for both parents of this interspecific RIL population identified flowering-related genes showing environment-specific differential expression (flowering DEGs). One of these, a member of the florigen gene family FTa1 (LcFTa1), was located close to three major QTLs. Furthermore, gene expression results suggested that two other florigen genes (LcFTb1 and LcFTb2), MADS-box transcription factors such as LcAGL6/13d, LcSVPb, LcSOC1b and LcFULb, as well as bHLH transcription factor LcPIF6 and Gibberellin 20 oxidase LcGA20oxC,G may also be involved in the light quality response. Our results show that a major component of flowering time sensitivity to light quality is tightly linked to LcFTa1 and associated with changes in its expression. This work provides a foundation for crop improvement of lentil with better adaptation to variable light environments.
In the present study, the results of nucleotide composition analysis showed that the legume chloroplast (cp) transcriptomes were AT rich. From the neutrality plot, we observed that natural selection might have played a major role, while mutation pressure played a minor role in the CUB of cp transcriptomes. Highly significant (p < 0.05) negative correlation was found between mRNA free energy (mFE) and scaled chi-square for entire mRNA in Cicer arietinum and Lens culinaris suggesting that the release of higher energy by entire mRNA molecule might be associated with higher degree of codon usage bias in these two crop plants. Further, highly significant (p < 0.01, p < 0.05) positive correlation of mFE for entire mRNA was found with GC3 and that of mFE for 39 bases with GC, GC1, GC2 and GC3 contents among all the legumes. This indicated that higher GC content might induce the release of more free energy by cp transcriptomes.
Some soil bacteria, called rhizobia, can interact symbiotically with legumes, in which they form nodules on the plant roots, where they can reduce atmospheric dinitrogen to ammonia, a form of nitrogen that can be used by growing plants. Rhizobium-plant combinations can differ in how successful this symbiosis is: for example, Sinorhizobium meliloti Rm1021 forms a relatively ineffective symbiosis with Medicago truncatula Jemalong A17, but Sinorhizobium medicae WSM419 is able to support more vigorous plant growth. Using proteomic data from free-living and symbiotic
Lentils are highly sensitive to abrupt increases in temperature during the mid to late reproductive stages, leading to severe biomass and seed yield reduction. Therefore, we carried out an RNAseq analysis between IG4258 (heat tolerant) and IG3973 (heat sensitive) lentil genotypes at the reproductive stage under both normal and heat stress conditions in the field. It resulted in 209,549 assembled transcripts and among these 161,809 transcripts had coding regions, of which 94,437 transcripts were annotated. The differential gene expression analysis showed upregulation of 678 transcripts and downregulation of 680 transcripts between the tolerant and sensitive genotypes at the early reproductive stage. While 76 transcripts were upregulated and 47 transcripts were downregulated at the late reproductive stage under heat stress conditions. The validation of 12 up-or downregulated transcripts through RT-PCR corresponded well with the expression analysis data of RNAseq, with a correlation of R
CRISPR-Cas9 is a revolutionary technology because it is precise, fast and easy to implement, cheap and components are readily accessible. This versatility means that the technology can deliver a timely end product and can be used by many stakeholders. In plant cells, the technology can be applied to knockout genes by using CRISPR-Cas nucleases that can alter coding gene regions or regulatory elements, alter precisely a genome by base editing to delete or regulate gene expression, edit precisely a genome by homology-directed repair mechanism (cellular DNA), or regulate transcriptional machinery by using dead Cas proteins to recruit regulators to the promoter region of a gene. All these applications can be for: 1) Research use (Non commercial), 2) Uses related product components for the technology itself (reagents, equipment, toolkits, vectors etc), and 3) Uses related to the development and sale of derived end products based on this technology. In this contribution, we present a prototype report that can engage the community in open, inclusive and collaborative innovation mapping. Using the open data at the Lens.org platform and other relevant sources, we tracked, analyzed, organized, and assembled contextual and bridged patent and scholarly knowledge about CRISPR-Cas9 and with the assistance of a new Lens institutional capability, The Lens Report Builder, currently in beta release, mapped the public and commercial innovation pathways of the technology. When scaled, this capability will also enable coordinated editing and curation by credentialed experts to inform policy makers, businesses and private or public investment.
Soil salinity is a major abiotic stress, limiting lentil productivity worldwide. Understanding the genetic basis of salt tolerance is vital to develop tolerant varieties. A diversity panel consisting of 276 lentil accessions was screened in a previous study through traditional and image-based approaches to quantify growth under salt stress. Genotyping was performed using two contrasting methods, targeted (tGBS) and transcriptome (GBS-t) genotyping-by-sequencing, to evaluate the most appropriate methodology. tGBS revealed the highest number of single-base variants (SNPs) (c. 56,349), and markers were more evenly distributed across the genome compared to GBS-t. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) was conducted using a mixed linear model. Significant marker-trait associations were observed on Chromosome 2 as well as Chromosome 4, and a range of candidate genes was identified from the reference genome, the most plausible being potassium transporters, which are known to be involved in salt tolerance in related species. Detailed mineral composition performed on salt-treated and control plant tissues revealed the salt tolerance mechanism in lentil, in which tolerant accessions do not transport Na
Mice were divided into four groups: normal, untreated, low- (2 mg), and high-dose (8 mg) beluga lentil treatment groups. Beluga lentil was orally administered for 2 weeks, followed by bilateral renal ischemia for 20 min and reperfusion for 30 min. Blood samples and kidney tissues were collected and analyzed to investigate renal function, histopathology, epithelial and endothelial cell damage, apoptosis, oxidative stress, and inflammatory responses. The pretreated groups maintained renal function, with significantly lower blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine levels, compared with the other groups. The histopathological analysis showed reduced proximal tubule injury and decreased injury-related molecule (kidney injury molecule 1 (KIM-1) and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL)) secretion in the pretreated groups compared with the other groups. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling- (TUNEL-) positive cells and the secretion of apoptosis-related molecules (Fas and caspase 3) were significantly reduced in the pretreated groups compared with the other groups. The pretreated groups showed positive microvessel-associated gene (cluster of differentiation (CD31)) expression and negative adhesion molecule (intracellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1)) expression. An antioxidant effect was observed in the pretreatment groups, with reduced malonaldehyde (MDA) expression and increased antioxidant enzyme (superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione (GSH), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx)) secretion. In the pretreated groups, F4/80+ macrophages and CD4+ T cell infiltration were inhibited and proinflammatory cytokine (interleukin- (IL-) 1 Beluga lentil pretreatment demonstrated protective effects against I/R-induced renal damage, via antiapoptotic, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant activities.
Aluminum stress deteriorates lentil production under acidic soils. Enhanced insight into Al tolerance traits is needed to improve its productivity. Therefore, Al-resistant (L-4602, PAL-8) and Al-sensitive (BM-4, EC-223229) cultivars along with a resistant wild (ILWL-15) were characterized for morpho-physiological traits viz. seedling root architecture (SRA), Al accumulation, and localization via fluorescent and non-fluorescent staining under control and Al-treated conditions. Also, antioxidant activities and organic acid secretion were quantified, and expressions of 10 associated genes were analyzed. Roots of Al-resistant cultivars and wild genotype showed higher root growth, antioxidant enzyme activities, and organic acid secretion than Al-sensitive ones. Among these traits, higher organic acid secretion was influenced by enhanced expression of genes, especially-aluminum sensitive-3 (ALS 3), aluminum-activated malate transporter (ALMT), multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE), citrate synthase (CS), and phospho enol pyruvate carboxylase (PEPC)-which helped in reducing Al and callose accumulation. These genes were located on lentil chromosomes via sequence alignment with lentil draft genome. A strong link between morpho-physiological variation and organic acid secretion was noted which reinforced the prominence of exclusion mechanism. It was complemented by enhanced antioxidant activities at seedling stage which mitigated Al stress effects on SRA. Wild outperformed over cultivars indicating its impregnable evolution which can be exploited to better understand tolerance mechanisms. Al-resistant cultivars had significantly higher seed yield than Al-sensitive and national checks on Al-toxic fields, confirming-tolerance is sustained till reproductive stage in lentil. This study elucidated role of gene families in eliminating Al toxicity that will assist breeders to formulate strategies for developing Al-resistant cultivars.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary cancer of the liver with high morbidity and mortality rates worldwide. Since 1963, when alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) was discovered as a first HCC serum biomarker, several other protein biomarkers have been identified and introduced into clinical practice. However, insufficient specificity and sensitivity of these biomarkers dictate the necessity of novel biomarker discovery. Remarkable advancements in integrated multiomics technologies for the identification of gene expression and protein or metabolite distribution patterns can facilitate rising to this challenge. Current multiomics technologies lead to the accumulation of a huge amount of data, which requires clustering and finding correlations between various datasets and developing predictive models for data filtering, pre-processing, and reducing dimensionality. Artificial intelligence (AI) technologies have an enormous potential to overcome accelerated data growth, complexity, and heterogeneity within and across data sources. Our review focuses on the recent progress in integrative proteomic profiling strategies and their usage in combination with machine learning and deep learning technologies for the discovery of novel biomarker candidates for HCC early diagnosis and prognosis. We discuss conventional and promising proteomic biomarkers of HCC such as AFP, lens culinaris agglutinin (LCA)-reactive L3 glycoform of AFP (AFP-L3), des-gamma-carboxyprothrombin (DCP), osteopontin (OPN), glypican-3 (GPC3), dickkopf-1 (DKK1), midkine (MDK), and squamous cell carcinoma antigen (SCCA) and highlight their functional significance including the involvement in cell signaling such as Wnt/β-catenin, PI3K/Akt, integrin αvβ3/NF-κB/HIF-1α, JAK/STAT3 and MAPK/ERK-mediated pathways dysregulated in HCC. We show that currently available computational platforms for big data analysis and AI technologies can both enhance proteomic profiling and improve imaging techniques to enhance the translational application of proteomics data into precision medicine.
Lentil cultivation could be challenged by combined heat and drought stress in semi-arid regions. We used RNA-seq approach to profile transcriptome changes of Lens culinaris exposed to individual and combined heat and drought stresses. It was determined that most of the differentially expressed genes observed in response to combined stress, could not be identified by analysis of transcriptome exposed to corresponding individual stresses. Interestingly, this study results revealed that the expression of ribosome generation and protein biosynthesis and starch degradation pathways related genes were uniquely up-regulated under the combined stress. Although multiple genes related to antioxidant activity were up-regulated in response to all stresses, variation in types and expression levels of these genes under the combined stress were higher than that of individual stresses. Using this comparative approach, for the first time, we reported up-regulation of several TF, CDPK, CYP, and antioxidant genes in response to combined stress in plants.
Physical seed dormancy is an important trait in legume domestication. Although seed dormancy is beneficial in wild ecosystems, it is generally considered to be an undesirable trait in crops due to reduction in yield and / or quality. The physiological mechanism and underlying genetic factor(s) of seed dormancy is largely unknown in several legume species. Here we employed an integrative approach to understand the mechanisms controlling physical seed dormancy in common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). Using an innovative CT scan imaging system, we were able to track water movements inside the seed coat. We found that water uptake initiates from the bean seed lens. Using a scanning electron microscopy (SEM) we further identified several micro-cracks on the lens surface of non-dormant bean genotypes. Bulked segregant analysis (BSA) was conducted on a bi-parental RIL (recombinant inbred line) population, segregating for seed dormancy. This analysis revealed that the seed water uptake is associated with a single major QTL on Pv03. The QTL region was fine-mapped to a 118 Kb interval possessing 11 genes. Coding sequence analysis of candidate genes revealed a 5-bp insertion in an ortholog of pectin acetylesterase 8 that causes a frame shift, loss-of-function mutation in non-dormant genotype. Gene expression analysis of the candidate genes in the seed coat of contrasting genotypes indicated 21-fold lower expression of pectin acetylesterase 8 in non-dormant genotype. An analysis of mutational polymorphism was conducted among wild and domesticated beans. Although all the wild beans possessed the functional allele of pectin acetylesterase 8, the majority (77%) of domesticated beans had the non-functional allele suggesting that this variant was under strong selection pressure through domestication. In this study, we identified the physiological mechanism of physical seed dormancy and have identified a candidate allele causing variation in this trait. Our findings suggest that a 5-bp insertion in an ortholog of pectin acetylesterase 8 is likely a major causative mutation underlying the loss of seed dormancy during domestication. Although the results of current study provide strong evidences for the role of pectin acetylesterase 8 in seed dormancy, further confirmations seem necessary by employing transgenic approaches.
Extensive transcriptomic skimming was conducted to decipher molecular, morphological, physiological, and biochemical responses in salt-tolerant (PDL-1) and salt-sensitive (L-4076) cultivars under control (0 mM NaCl) and salinity stress (120 mM NaCl) conditions at seedling stage. Morphological, physiological, and biochemical studies revealed that PDL-1 exhibited no salt injury and had higher K
Cataracts account for over half of global blindness. Cataracts formations occur mainly due to aging and to the direct insults of oxidative stress and inflammation to the eye lens. The nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), a transcriptional factor for cell cytoprotection, is known as the master regulator of redox homeostasis. Nrf2 regulates nearly 600 genes involved in cellular protection against contributing factors of oxidative stress, including aging, disease, and inflammation. Nrf2 was reported to disrupt the oxidative stress that activates Nuclear factor-κB (NFκB) and proinflammatory cytokines. One of these cytokines is matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9), which participates in the decomposition of lens epithelial cells (LECs) extracellular matrix and has been correlated with cataract development. Thus, during inflammatory processes, MMP production may be attenuated by the Nrf2 pathway or by the Nrf2 inhibition of NFκB pathway activation. Moreover, plant-based polyphenols have garnered attention due to their presumed safety and efficacy, nutritional, and antioxidant effects. Polyphenol compounds can activate Nrf2 and inhibit MMP-9. Therefore, this review focuses on discussing Nrf2's role in oxidative stress and cataract formation, epigenetic effect in Nrf2 activity, and the association between Nrf2 and MMP-9 in cataract development. Moreover, we describe the protective role of flavonoids in cataract formation, targeting Nrf2 activation and MMP-9 synthesis inhibition as potential molecular targets in preventing cataracts.
Lentil is an important food legume crop that has large and complex genome. During past years, considerable attention has been given on the use of next generation sequencing for enriching the genomic resources including identification of SSR and SNP markers, development of unigenes, transcripts, and identification of candidate genes for biotic and abiotic stresses, analysis of genetic diversity and identification of genes/ QTLs for agronomically important traits. However, in other crops including pulses, next generation sequencing has revolutionized the genomic research and helped in genomic assisted breeding rapidly and cost effectively. The present review discuss current status and future prospects of the use NGS based breeding in lentil.
The Colorado potato beetle, Leptinotarsa decemlineata (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) inflicts serious damage to potato plants by feeding ravenously on their leaves. Adult L.decemlineata have a photoperiod-induced dormancy response, also known as diapause, which allows them to survive severe winter conditions by digging into soil. Most insects that undergo diapause accumulate abundant lipid reserves prior to diapause and utilize most of them during the diapause. This process is likely to be governed by the interplay of lipid storage droplet proteins (LSDs), also known as perilipins, with the help of other proteins. Here, genes encoding L. decemlineata LSD1 and LSD2 were identified. Both were expressed primarily in the fat body with LdLSD1 and LdLSD2 being primarily expressed in adult and larval stages, respectively. LdLSD1 was up-regulated in starving larvae, while LdLSD2 was primarily expressed in feeding larvae. The expression pattern of LdLSD1 in adults during feeding, diapause and post-diapause contrasted to the total body fat levels, while the expression pattern of LdLSD2 was positively correlated with total body fat levels. RNA interference (RNAi) of LdLSD2 in larvae suggested a core role for LSD2 in the protection/assembly of storage lipids as this treatment reduced overall lipid droplet volume. These data shed light on the functions of these proteins in L. decemlineata and their roles in both diapause and during starvation.
For an extensive period of time apical meristem (SAM) has been considered as a mysterious organ, due to its small, hidden and dynamic structure. Confocal imaging, combined with fluorescent reporters, enables researchers to unveil the mechanisms underlying cellular activities, such as gene expression, cell division, growth patterns and cell-cell communications. Recently, a series of protocols were developed for confocal imaging of inflorescence meristem (IM) and floral meristem (FM). However, the requirement of high configuration, such as the need of a water-dipping lens without coverslip and the specialized turrets associated with fixed-stage microscopes, impedes the wide adoption of these methods. We exploited an improved object slide and matching method aiming to decrease the configuration requirement. Following this protocol, various dry microscope lenses can be selected with flexibility for building 3D images of IM and FM.
Agricultural production is dependent on inputs of nitrogen (N) whose cycle relies on soil and crop microbiomes. Crop diversification has increased productivity; however, its impact on the expression of microbial genes involved in N-cycling pathways remains unknown. Here, we assessed N-cycling gene expression patterns in the root and rhizosphere microbiomes of five oilseed crops as influenced by three 2-year crop rotations. The first phase consisted of fallow, lentil or wheat, and the second phase consisted of one of five oilseed crops. Expression of bacterial amoA, nirK and nirS genes showed that the microbiome of Ethiopian mustard had the lowest and that of camelina the highest potential for N loss. A preceding rotation phase of lentil significantly increased the expression of nifH gene by 23% compared with wheat and improved nxrA gene expression by 51% with chemical fallow in the following oilseed crops respectively. Lentil substantially increased biological N
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short, regulatory RNAs that act as post-transcriptional repressors of gene expression in diverse biological contexts. The emergence of small RNA-mediated gene silencing preceded the onset of multicellularity and was followed by a drastic expansion of the miRNA repertoire in conjunction with the evolution of complexity in the plant and animal kingdoms. Along this process, miRNAs became an essential feature of animal development, as no higher metazoan lineage tolerated loss of miRNAs or their associated protein machinery. In fact, ablation of the miRNA biogenesis machinery or the effector silencing factors results in severe embryogenesis defects in every animal studied. In this review, we summarize recent mechanistic insight into miRNA biogenesis and function, while emphasizing features that have enabled multicellular organisms to harness the potential of this broad class of repressors. We first discuss how different mechanisms of regulation of miRNA biogenesis are used, not only to generate spatio-temporal specificity of miRNA production within an animal, but also to achieve the necessary levels and dynamics of expression. We then explore how evolution of the mechanism for small RNA-mediated repression resulted in a diversity of silencing complexes that cause different molecular effects on their targets. Multicellular organisms have taken advantage of this variability in the outcome of miRNA-mediated repression, with differential use in particular cell types or even distinct subcellular compartments. Finally, we present an overview of how the animal miRNA repertoire has evolved and diversified, emphasizing the emergence of miRNA families and the biological implications of miRNA sequence diversification. Overall, focusing on selected animal models and through the lens of evolution, we highlight canonical mechanisms in miRNA biology and their variations, providing updated insight that will ultimately help us understand the contribution of miRNAs to the development and physiology of multicellular organisms.
Age-related cataract (ARC) is the major cause of blindness worldwide. The most significant factors are the maximal exposure of the eye lens to environmental stressors, including oxidative and glycative load. The administration of antioxidant and antiglycative supplements may reduce the risk of cataract progression. In this study, the effects of lutein (LU) and water chestnut (
To investigate the mechanism of the protective effects of blueberry anthocyanin extract (BAE) against oxidative stress and the roles of SIRT1 and NF-κB in the pathogenesis of diabetic cataracts. Male SD rats were randomly divided into a control group (group A) and an experimental group. The rats in the experimental group were intraperitoneally injected with streptozotocin (STZ) (60 mg/kg). Rats with blood glucose levels ≥16.7 mmol/L were considered to have DM. The rats in the experimental group were subdivided into group B (distilled water by oral gavage: 10 ml/kg/day), group C (5% blueberry anthocyanin extract by oral gavage: 10 ml/kg/day), and group D (15% blueberry anthocyanin extract by oral gavage: 10 ml/kg/day), with 15 rats in each group. At the end of 8 weeks, some biochemical parameters, including the expression of SIRT1 and NF-κB by qRT-PCR and western blotting and the activity of SOD and GSH, were measured in lens epithelial cells (LECs). The lenses of the rats in the control group appeared transparent during the entire 8-week period. Four weeks following STZ injection, cataracts gradually progressed in the experimental rats. SIRT1 expression was upregulated in groups B, C and D compared to the control group. However, the expression of NF-κB decreased in the experimental groups with increasing doses of BAE ( The results indicated that BAE significantly delayed the progression of diabetic cataracts in rats. These effects may be due to the dose-dependent antioxidant activity of BAE, which is mediated by enhanced SOD and GSH activities, SIRT1 expression and reduced NF-κB expression.
Gene regulatory regions contain short and degenerated DNA binding sites recognized by transcription factors (TFBS). When TFBS harbor SNPs, the DNA binding site may be affected, thereby altering the transcriptional regulation of the target genes. Such regulatory SNPs have been implicated as causal variants in Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) studies. In this study, we describe improved versions of the programs
The plant immune system is made up of a complex response network that involves several lines of defense to fight invading pathogens. Fungal plant pathogens on the other hand, have evolved a range of ways to infect their host. The interaction between Ascochyta lentis and two lentil genotypes was explored to investigate the progression of ascochyta blight (AB) in lentils. In this study, we developed an Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation system for A. lentis by constructing a new binary vector, pATMT-GpdGFP, for the constitutive expression of green fluorescent protein (EGFP). Green fluorescence was used as a highly efficient vital marker to study the developmental changes in A. lentis during AB disease progression on the susceptible and resistant lentil accessions, ILL6002 and ILL7537, respectively. The initial infection stages were similar in both the resistant and susceptible accessions where A. lentis uses infection structures such as germ tubes and appressoria to gain entry into the host while the host uses defense mechanisms to prevent pathogen entry. Penetration was observed at the junctions between neighbouring epidermal cells and occasionally, through the stomata. The pathogen attempted to penetrate and colonize ILL7537, but further fungal advancement appeared to be halted, and A. lentis did not enter the mesophyll. Successful entry and colonization of ILL6002 coincided with structural changes in A. lentis and the onset of necrotic lesions 5-7 days post inoculation. Once inside the leaf, A. lentis continued to grow, colonizing all parts of the leaf followed by plant cell collapse. Pycnidia-bearing spores appeared 14 days post inoculation, which marks the completion of the infection cycle. The use of fluorescent proteins in plant pathogenic fungi together with confocal laser scanning microscopy, provide a valuable tool to study the intracellular dynamics, colonization strategy and infection mechanisms during plant-pathogen interaction.
The 1000 Plant transcriptomes initiative (1KP) explored genetic diversity by sequencing RNA from 1,342 samples representing 1,173 species of green plants (Viridiplantae). This data release accompanies the initiative's final/capstone publication on a set of 3 analyses inferring species trees, whole genome duplications, and gene family expansions. These and previous analyses are based on de novo transcriptome assemblies and related gene predictions. Here, we assess their data and assembly qualities and explain how we detected potential contaminations. These data will be useful to plant and/or evolutionary scientists with interests in particular gene families, either across the green plant tree of life or in more focused lineages.
Stemphylium blight (SB), caused by Stemphylium botryosum, is a devastating disease in lentil production. Although it is known that accessions of Lens ervoides possess superior SB resistance at much higher frequency than the cultivated lentil species, very little is known about the molecular basis regulating SB resistance in L. ervoides. Therefore, a comprehensive molecular study of SB resistance in L. ervoides was needed to exploit this wild resource available at genebanks for use by plant breeders in resistance breeding. Microscopic and qPCR quantification of fungal growth revealed that 48, 96, and 144 h post-inoculation (hpi) were interesting time points for disease development in L. ervoides recombinant inbred lines (RILs) LR-66-637 (resistant to SB) and LR-66-577 (susceptible to SB). Results of transcriptome sequencing at 0, 48, 96 and 144 hpi showed that 8810 genes were disease-responsive genes after challenge by S. botryosum. Among them, 7526 genes displayed a similar expression trend in both RILs, and some of them were likely involved in non-host resistance. The remaining 1284 genes were differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between RILs. Of those, 712 DEGs upregulated in LR-66-637 were mostly enriched in 'carbohydrate metabolic process', 'cell wall organization or biogenesis', and 'polysaccharide metabolic process'. In contrast, there were another 572 DEGs that were upregulated in LR-66-577, and some of them were enriched in 'oxidation-reduction process', 'asparagine metabolic process' and 'asparagine biosynthetic process'. After comparing DEGs to genes identified in previously described quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for resistance to SB, nine genes were common and three of them showed differential gene expression between a resistant and a susceptible bulk consisting of five RILs each. Results showed that two genes encoding calcium-transporting ATPase and glutamate receptor3.2 were candidate resistance genes, whereas one gene with unknown function was a candidate susceptibility gene. This study provides new insights into the mechanisms of resistance and susceptibility in L. ervoides RILs responding to S. botryosum infection. Furthermore, we identified candidate resistance or susceptibility genes which warrant further gene function analyses, and which could be valuable for resistance breeding, if their role in resistance or susceptibility can be confirmed.
The present study reports the role of morphological, physiological and reproductive attributes viz. membrane stability index (MSI), osmolytes accumulations, antioxidants activities and pollen germination for heat stress tolerance in contrasting genotypes. Heat stress increased proline and glycine betaine (GPX) contents, induced superoxide dismutase (SOD), ascorbate peroxidase (APX) and glutathione peroxidase (GPX) activities and resulted in higher MSI in PDL-2 (tolerant) compared to JL-3 (sensitive). In vitro pollen germination of tolerant genotype was higher than sensitive one under heat stress. In vivo stressed pollens of tolerant genotype germinated well on stressed stigma of sensitive genotype, while stressed pollens of sensitive genotype did not germinate on stressed stigma of tolerant genotype. De novo transcriptome analysis of both the genotypes showed that number of contigs ranged from 90,267 to 104,424 for all the samples with N
Cataracts are the major cause of blindness and are associated with oxidative damage of the lens. In the present study, the aim was to evaluate the protective effects of rosmarinic acid on selenite-induced cataractogenesis in Sprague-Dawley rat pups. The animals were randomly divided into five groups, each of which consisted of 10 rat pups. Group I served as normal control (vehicle administration). For testing cataract induction, animals of Groups II, III, IV, and V were administered a single subcutaneous injection of sodium selenite (2.46 mg/kg body weight) on postpartum day 12. After sodium selenite intoxication, Group II served as control selenite. From the 11th day through the 17th day, Groups III-V received rosmarinic acid intraperitoneally at doses of 5, 10, and 50 mg/kg, respectively. On postpartum day 24, the rat pups were examined for cataract formation, and the lenses were isolated for further analysis of proteins and oxidative damage indicators. Selenite caused significant (
Analysis of meristem shape and gene expression pattern has been conducted in many species over the past decades. Recent live imaging techniques have allowed for an unprecedented accumulation of data on the biology of meristematic cells, as well as a better understanding of the molecular and biophysical mechanisms behind shape changes in this tissue. Here we describe in detail how to prepare shoot apices of both Arabidopsis and tomato, in order to image them over time using a confocal microscope equipped with a long distance water-dipping lens.
Drought stress is one of the main environmental factors that affects growth and productivity of crop plants, including lentil. To gain insights into the genome-wide transcriptional regulation in lentil root and leaf under short- and long-term drought conditions, we performed RNA-seq on a drought-sensitive lentil cultivar (Lens culinaris Medik. cv. Sultan). After establishing drought conditions, lentil samples were subjected to de novo RNA-seq-based transcriptome analysis. The 207,076 gene transcripts were successfully constructed by de novo assembly from the sequences obtained from root, leaf, and stems. Differentially expressed gene (DEG) analysis on these transcripts indicated that period of drought stress had a greater impact on the transcriptional regulation in lentil root. The numbers of DEGs were 2915 under short-term drought stress while the numbers of DEGs were increased to 18,327 under long-term drought stress condition in the root. Further, Gene Ontology analysis revealed that the following biological processes were differentially regulated in response to long-term drought stress: protein phosphorylation, embryo development seed dormancy, DNA replication, and maintenance of root meristem identity. Additionally, DEGs, which play a role in circadian rhythm and photoreception, were downregulated suggesting that drought stress has a negative effect on the internal oscillators which may have detrimental consequences on plant growth and survival. Collectively, this study provides a detailed comparative transcriptome response of drought-sensitive lentil strain under short- and long-term drought conditions in root and leaf. Our finding suggests that not only the regulation of genes in leaves is important but also genes regulated in roots are important and need to be considered for improving drought tolerance in lentil.
Usage of high-throughput sequencing approaches allow for the generation and characterization of reference transcriptome datasets that support gene-based marker discovery, which in turn can be used to build genetic maps among other purposes. We have obtained a transcriptome assembly including 49,453 genes for the lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.) cultivar Alpo using RNAseq methodology. This transcriptome was used as reference to obtain 6,306 quality polymorphic markers (SNPs and short indels) analyzing genotype data from a RIL population at F7 generation derived from the interspecific cross between L. culinaris cv. Alpo and L. odemensis accession ILWL235. L. odemensis is a wild species included in the secondary gene pool and can be used as a source for gene introgression in lentil breeding programs. Marker data were used to construct the first genetic interspecific map between these two species. This linkage map has been used to precisely identify regions of the CDC-Redberry lentil draft genome in which the candidate genes for some qualitative traits (seed coat spotting pattern, flower color, and stem pigmentation) could be located. The genome regions corresponding to a significant single quantitative trait locus (QTL) controlling "time to flowering" located in chromosome 6 and three QTLs regulating seed size and positioned in chromosomes 1 and 5 (two QTLs) were also identified. Significant QTLs for Ascochyta blight resistance in lentil were mapped to chromosome 6 in the genome region or close to it where QTLs for Ascochyta blight resistance have previously been reported.
Vertebrates have greatly elaborated the basic chordate body plan and evolved highly distinctive genomes that have been sculpted by two whole-genome duplications. Here we sequence the genome of the Mediterranean amphioxus (Branchiostoma lanceolatum) and characterize DNA methylation, chromatin accessibility, histone modifications and transcriptomes across multiple developmental stages and adult tissues to investigate the evolution of the regulation of the chordate genome. Comparisons with vertebrates identify an intermediate stage in the evolution of differentially methylated enhancers, and a high conservation of gene expression and its cis-regulatory logic between amphioxus and vertebrates that occurs maximally at an earlier mid-embryonic phylotypic period. We analyse regulatory evolution after whole-genome duplications, and find that-in vertebrates-over 80% of broadly expressed gene families with multiple paralogues derived from whole-genome duplications have members that restricted their ancestral expression, and underwent specialization rather than subfunctionalization. Counter-intuitively, paralogues that restricted their expression increased the complexity of their regulatory landscapes. These data pave the way for a better understanding of the regulatory principles that underlie key vertebrate innovations.
In order to investigate the salt tolerance mechanism in Egyptian lentils, five cultivars were grown under different salinity levels. The results indicated that Giza 9 is salt-tolerant, while Giza 4 is a salt-sensitive lentil cultivar, as Giza 9 showed the highest germination percentage and relative water content, the lowest decline in root and shoot length, and the highest proline content. Relative gene expression of
Fermented lentil (FL) produced using L. plantarum and Savinase in alkaline conditions relieves metabolic alterations and oxidative stress in Zucker rats with metabolic syndrome. Here, we investigated the effect of up scaling the fermentation process on chemical composition and biological activity of FL. Moreover, we studied the molecular mechanisms by which FL exert a cytoprotective effect against oxidative stress in tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BHP)-challenged RAW264.7 macrophages. Up-scale production reduced overall biological effectiveness of FL with the exception of inhibition of intracellular ROS generation. FL prevented t-BHP-induced cytotoxicity and intracellular accumulation of reactive oxygen species through activation of catalase expression via SAPK/JNK phosphorylation and Nrf2 nuclear translocation. Different oligopeptides, phenolic acids and flavonols were identified as contributors of the observed effects. To the best of our knowledge, we reported for the first time that FL attenuates oxidative stress cellular damage via activation of SAPK/JNK phosphorylation, Nrf2 nuclear translocation and antioxidant enzymes expression.
Ascochyta blight of lentil is an important fungal disease in many lentil-producing regions of the world causing major yield and grain quality losses. Quick shifts in aggressiveness of the population of the causal agent Ascochyta lentis mandates developing germplasm with novel and durable resistance. In the absence of complete resistance, lentil genotypes CDC Robin and 964a-46 have frequently been used as sources of partial resistance to ascochyta blight and carry non-allelic ascochyta blight resistance genes. RNA-seq analysis was conducted to identify differences in the transcriptome of CDC Robin, 964a-46 and the susceptible check Eston after inoculation with A. lentis. Candidate defense genes differentially expressed among the genotypes had hypothetical functions in various layers of plant defense, including pathogen recognition, phytohormone signaling pathways and downstream defense responses. CDC Robin and 964a-46 activated cell surface receptors (e.g. receptor like kinases) tentatively associated with pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMP) recognition and nucleotide-binding site leucine-rich repeat (NBS-LRR) receptors associated with intracellular effector recognition upon A. lentis infection, and differed in their activation of salicylic acid, abscisic acid and jasmonic acid / ethylene signal transduction pathways. These differences were reflected in the differential expression of downstream defense responses such as pathogenesis-related proteins, and genes associated with the induction of cell death and cell-wall reinforcement. A significant correlation between expression levels of a selection of genes based on quantitative real-time PCR and their expression levels estimated through RNA-seq demonstrated the technical and analytical accuracy of RNA-seq for identification of genes differentially expressed among genotypes. The presence of different resistance mechanisms in 964a-46 and CDC Robin indicates their value for pyramiding gene leading to more durable resistance to ascochyta blight.
Hyperglycemia-induced osmotic and oxidative stress is thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of diabetes-related secondary complications including cataract. In continuation of our previous observation of the ameliorative influence of these spices on hyperglycemia, attendant metabolic abnormalities, and oxidative stress in tissues of diabetic rats, the beneficial influence of dietary (10%) fenugreek seeds, (3%) onion, or their combination was investigated on diabetes-induced alteration in the eye lens of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Animals maintained on these spices showed significantly countered oxidative stress markers (reactive oxygen species, lipid peroxidation and protein carbonyl), advanced glycation end products, and expression of their receptor in the eye lens. Increased activity of polyol pathway enzymes, their protein, and mRNA expression was significantly countered in the cataractogenic lens as a result of these dietary interventions. Altered crystallin (αA and αB) distribution profile, their expression, activity of carbohydrate metabolizing enzymes, and antioxidant status were significantly annulled by these dietary treatments. Physical and visual observation of the photomicrographs of the lenses of treated rats indicated that these dietary interventions delayed cataractogenesis in diabetic rats. Overall, the present investigation evidenced a beneficial modulation of the progression of cataractogenesis by dietary fenugreek seeds and onion, implicating their potential in ameliorating cataract in diabetics.
The LAFL (i.e. LEC1, ABI3, FUS3, and LEC2) master transcriptional regulators interact to form different complexes that induce embryo development and maturation, and inhibit seed germination and vegetative growth in Arabidopsis. Orthologous genes involved in similar regulatory processes have been described in various angiosperms including important crop species. Consistent with a prominent role of the LAFL regulators in triggering and maintaining embryonic cell fate, their expression appears finely tuned in different tissues during seed development and tightly repressed in vegetative tissues by a surprisingly high number of genetic and epigenetic factors. Partial functional redundancies and intricate feedback regulations of the LAFL have hampered the elucidation of the underpinning molecular mechanisms. Nevertheless, genetic, genomic, cellular, molecular, and biochemical analyses implemented during the last years have greatly improved our knowledge of the LALF network. Here we summarize and discuss recent progress, together with current issues required to gain a comprehensive insight into the network, including the emerging function of LEC1 and possibly LEC2 as pioneer transcription factors.
Ascochyta blight, caused by the fungus Ascochyta lentis, is one of the most destructive lentil diseases worldwide, resulting in over $16 million AUD annual loss in Australia alone. The use of resistant cultivars is currently considered the most effective and environmentally sustainable strategy to control this disease. However, little is known about the genes and molecular mechanisms underlying lentil resistance against A. lentis. To uncover the genetic basis of lentil resistance to A. lentis, differentially expressed genes were profiled in lentil plants during the early stages of A. lentis infection. The resistant 'ILL7537' and susceptible 'ILL6002' lentil genotypes were examined at 2, 6, and 24 h post inoculation utilising high throughput RNA-Sequencing. Genotype and time-dependent differential expression analysis identified genes which play key roles in several functions of the defence response: fungal elicitors recognition and early signalling; structural response; biochemical response; transcription regulators; hypersensitive reaction and cell death; and systemic acquired resistance. Overall, the resistant genotype displayed an earlier and faster detection and signalling response to the A. lentis infection and demonstrated higher expression levels of structural defence-related genes. This study presents a first-time defence-related transcriptome of lentil to A. lentis, including a comprehensive characterisation of the molecular mechanism through which defence against A. lentis is induced in the resistant lentil genotype.
Metabolic syndrome is a cluster of metabolic alterations characterized by central obesity, dyslipidemia, elevated plasma glucose, insulin resistance (IR) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). In this study, a combined intervention of a lentil protein hydrolysate and a mixed training protocol was assessed in an animal experimental model of genetic obesity and metabolic syndrome. Thirty-two male obese and 32 lean Zucker rats were divided into eight different experimental groups. Rats performed a mixed exercise protocol or had a sedentary lifestyle and were administered a lentil protein hydrolysate or placebo. Daily food intake, weekly body weight gain, plasma parameters of glucose and lipid metabolisms, body composition, hepatic weight, total fat content and fatty acid profile, as well as gene expression of lipogenic and lipolytic nuclear transcription factors and their target genes were measured. Obese Zucker rats exhibited higher body and liver weight and fat content than did their lean counterparts. Such alterations were related to modifications in aerobic capacity, plasma biochemical parameters of glucose and lipid metabolisms, hepatic fatty acid profile and gene expression of nuclear transcription factors SREBP1c, PPARα, LXR and associated lipogenic and lipolytic enzymes. The interventions tested did not affect body weight gain but improved aerobic capacity, reduced hepatomegalia and steatosis associated with NAFLD and relieved the adverse effects produced by this condition in glucose and lipid metabolisms through the modulation in the expression of different genes involved in diverse metabolic pathways.
The application of genomics in crops has the ability to significantly improve genetic gain for agriculture. Many marker-dense tools have been developed, but few have seen broad adoption in plant genomics due to issues of significant variations of genome size, levels of ploidy, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) frequency and reproductive habit. When combined with limited breeding activities, small research communities and scant sequence resources, the suitability of popular systems is often suboptimal and routinely fails to effectively balance cost-effectiveness and sample throughput. Genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) encompasses a range of protocols including resequencing of the transcriptome. This study describes a skim GBS-transcriptomics (GBS-t) approach developed to be broadly applicable, cost-effective and high-throughput while still assaying a significant number of SNP loci. A range of crop species with differing levels of ploidy and degree of inbreeding/outbreeding were chosen, including perennial ryegrass, a diploid outbreeding forage grass; phalaris, a putative segmental allotetraploid outbreeding forage grass; lentil, a diploid inbreeding grain legume; and canola, an allotetraploid partially outbreeding oilseed. GBS-t was validated as a simple and largely automated, cost-effective method which generates sufficient SNPs (from 89 738 to 231 977) with acceptable levels of missing data and even genome coverage from c. 3 million sequence reads per sample. GBS-t is therefore a broadly applicable system suitable for many crops, offering advantages over other systems. The correct choice of subsequent sequence analysis software is important, and the bioinformatics process should be iterative and tailored to the specific challenges posed by ploidy variation and extent of heterozygosity.
In plant-animal mutualisms, how an animal forages often determines how much benefit its plant partner receives. In many animals, foraging behaviour changes in response to
Core fucosylation (CF), catalyzed by α-1,6 fucosyltransferase (Fut8) in mammals, plays an important role in pathological processes through posttranslational modification of key signaling receptor proteins, including transforming growth factor (TGF)-β receptors and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) receptors. However, its effect on peritoneal fibrosis is unknown. Here, we investigated its influence on epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of rat peritoneal mesothelial cells (PMCs) in vitro induced by a high-glucose (HG) culture solution. Rat PMCs were first cultured in a HG (2.5%) culture solution to observe the CF expression level (fluorescein isothiocyanate-lens culinaris agglutinin), we next established a knockdown model of rat PMCs in vitro with Fut8 small interfering RNA (siRNA) to observe whether inhibiting CF decreases the messenger RNA (mRNA) expression and protein expression of Fut8 and reverses EMT status. Rat PMCs were randomly divided into control group, mock group (transfected with scrambled siRNA), Fut8 siRNA group, HG group, HG + mock group, and HG + Fut8 siRNA group. Finally, we examined the activation of TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling and PDGF/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling to observe the influence of CF on them. CF, Fut8 mRNA, and protein expression were all significantly upregulated in HG- induced EMT model than those in the control rat PMCs (P < 0.05). Fut8 siRNA successfully blocked CF of TGF-β receptors and PDGF receptors and attenuated the EMT status (E-cadherin and α-SMA and phenotypic changes) in HG-induced rat PMCs. In TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling, Fut8 siRNA did not suppress the protein expression of TGF-β receptors and Smad2/3; however, it significantly suppressed the phosphorylation of Smad2/3 (relative expression folds of HG + Fut8 group vs. HG group: 7.6 ± 0.4 vs. 15.1 ± 0.6, respectively, P < 0.05). In PDGF/ERK signaling, Fut8 siRNA did not suppress the protein expression of PDGF receptors and ERK, but it significantly suppressed the phosphorylation of ERK (relative expression folds of HG + Fut8 group vs. HG group: 8.7 ± 0.9 vs. 15.6 ± 1.2, respectively, P < 0.05). Blocking CF inactivated the activities of TGF-β and PDGF signaling pathways, and subsequently blocked EMT. These results demonstrate that CF contributes to rat PMC EMT, and that blocking it attenuates EMT. CF regulation is a potential therapeutic target of peritoneal fibrosis.
Given the highly predictable nature of their development, Arabidopsis embryos have been used as a model for studies of morphogenesis in plants. However, early stage plant embryos are small and contain few cells, making them difficult to observe and analyze. A method is described here for characterizing pattern formation in plant embryos under a microscope using the model organism Arabidopsis. Following the clearance of fresh ovules using Hoyer's solution, the cell number in and morphology of embryos could be observed, and their developmental stage could be determined by differential interference contrast microscopy using a 100X oil immersion lens. In addition, the expression of specific marker proteins tagged with Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) was monitored to annotate cell identity specification during embryo patterning by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Thus, this method can be used to observe pattern formation in wild-type plant embryos at the cellular and molecular levels, and to characterize the role of specific genes in embryo patterning by comparing pattern formation in embryos from wild-type plants and embryo-lethal mutants. Therefore, the method can be used to characterize embryogenesis in Arabidopsis.
Frost is one of the main abiotic stresses limiting plant distribution and crop production. To cope with the stress, plants evolved adaptations known as cold acclimation or chilling tolerance to maximize frost tolerance. Cold acclimation is a progressive acquisition of freezing tolerance by plants subjected to low non-freezing temperatures which subsequently allows them to survive exposure to frost. Lentil is a cool season grain legume that is challenged by winter frost in some areas of its cultivation. To better understand the genetic base of frost tolerance differential gene expression in response to cold acclimation was investigated. Recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from the cross Precoz x WA8649041 were first classified as cold tolerant or cold susceptible according to their response to temperatures between -3 to -15 °C. Then, RILs from both extremes of the response curve were cold acclimated and the leaf transcriptomes of two bulks each of eight frost tolerant and seven cold susceptible RILs were investigated by Deep Super-SAGE transcriptome profiling. Thus, four RNA bulks were analysed: the acclimated susceptible, the acclimated tolerant and the respective controls (non-acclimated susceptible and non-acclimated tolerant). Approximately 16.5 million 26 nucleotide long Super-SAGE tags were sequenced in the four sets (between ~3 and 5.4 millions). In total, 133,077 different unitags, each representing a particular transcript isoform, were identified in these four sets. Tags which showed a significantly different abundance in any of the bulks (fold change ≥4.0 and a significant p-value <0.001) were selected and used to identify the corresponding lentil gene sequence. Three hundred of such lentil sequences were identified. Most of their known homologs coded for glycine-rich, cold and drought-regulated proteins, dormancy-associated proteins, proline-rich proteins (PRPs) and other membrane proteins. These were generally but not exclusively over-expressed in the acclimated tolerant lines. This set of candidate genes implicated in the response to frost in lentil represents an useful base for deeper and more detailed investigations into this important agronomic trait in future.
Ovarian cancer is one of the most lethal gynecological malignancies, in which platinum resistance is a common cause of its relapse and death. Glycosylation has been reported to be involved in drug resistance, and glycomic analyses of ovarian cancer may improve our understanding of the mechanisms underlying cancer cell drug resistance and provide potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets. The serous ovarian cancer cell line A2780 and its platinum-resistant counterpart A2780-cp were used in this study. We performed a lectin array analysis to compare the glycosylation patterns of the two cell lines, a gene expression array was employed to probe the differences in glycogenes. Furthermore, the results were verified by lectin blots. A2780-cp cell exhibited stronger intensities of The combination of the lectin and gene expression analyses showed that the levels of core fucosylation and poly-LacNAc were increased in the A2780-cp cells and the levels of Fuc α1-2(gal β1-4) GlcNAc and α2-6-linked sialic structures were decreased in the A2780-cp cells. These glycans represent potential biomarkers and might be involved in the mechanism of drug resistance in ovarian cancer.
Ascochyta blight of lentil is a prevalent disease in many lentil producing regions and can cause major yield and grain quality losses. The most environmentally acceptable and economically profitable method of control is to develop varieties with high levels of durable resistance. Genetic studies to date suggest that ascochyta blight resistance genes (R-gene) in lentil lines CDC Robin, ILL 7537, 964a-46, and ILL 1704 are non-allelic. To understand how different R-genes manifest resistance in these genotypes and an accession of
Multiple genes and transcription factors are involved in the uptake and translocation of iron in plants from soil. The sequence information about iron uptake and translocation related genes is largely unknown in lentil (
Flowers have an amazingly diverse display of colors and shapes, and these characteristics often vary significantly among closely related species. The evolution of diverse floral form can be thought of as an adaptive response to pollination and reproduction, but it can also be seen through the lens of morphological and developmental constraints. To explore these interactions, we use RNA-seq across species and development to investigate gene expression and sequence evolution as they relate to the evolution of the diverse flowers in a group of Neotropical plants native to Mexico-magic flowers (Achimenes, Gesneriaceae). The assembled transcriptomes contain between 29,000 and 42,000 genes expressed during development. We combine sequence orthology and coexpression clustering with analyses of protein evolution to identify candidate genes for roles in floral form evolution. Over 25% of transcripts captured were distinctive to Achimenes and overrepresented by genes involved in transcription factor activity. Using a model-based clustering approach we find dynamic, temporal patterns of gene expression among species. Selection tests provide evidence of positive selection in several genes with roles in pigment production, flowering time, and morphology. Combining these approaches to explore genes related to flower color and flower shape, we find distinct patterns that correspond to transitions of floral form among Achimenes species. The floral transcriptomes developed from four species of Achimenes provide insight into the mechanisms involved in the evolution of diverse floral form among closely related species with different pollinators. We identified several candidate genes that will serve as an important and useful resource for future research. High conservation of sequence structure, patterns of gene coexpression, and detection of positive selection acting on few genes suggests that large phenotypic differences in floral form may be caused by genetic differences in a small set of genes. Our characterized floral transcriptomes provided here should facilitate further analyses into the genomics of flower development and the mechanisms underlying the evolution of diverse flowers in Achimenes and other Neotropical Gesneriaceae.
Drought stress is one of the most harmful abiotic stresses in crop plants. As a moderately drought tolerant crop, lentil is a major crop in rainfed areas and a suitable candidate for drought stress tolerance research work. Screening for drought tolerance stress under hydroponic conditions at seedling stage with air exposure is an efficient technique to select genotypes with contrasting traits. Transcriptome analysis provides valuable resources, especially for lentil, as here the information on complete genome sequence is not available. Hence, the present studies were carried out. This study was undertaken to understand the biochemical mechanisms and transcriptome changes involved in imparting adaptation to drought stress at seedling stage in drought-tolerant (PDL-2) and drought-sensitive (JL-3) cultivars. Among different physiological and biochemical parameters, a significant increase was recorded in proline, glycine betaine contents and activities of SOD, APX and GPX in PDL-2 compared to JL-3while chlorophyll, RWC and catalase activity decreased significantly in JL-3. Transcriptome changes between the PDL-2 and JL-3 under drought stress were evaluated using Illumina HiSeq 2500 platform. Total number of bases ranged from 5.1 to 6.7 Gb. Sequence analysis of control and drought treated cDNA libraries of PDL-2 and JL-3 produced 74032, 75500, 78328 and 81523 contigs, respectively with respective N50 value of 2011, 2008, 2000 and 1991. Differential gene expression of drought treated genotypes along with their controls revealed a total of 11,435 upregulated and 6,934 downregulated transcripts. For functional classification of DEGs, KEGG pathway annotation analysis extracted a total of 413 GO annotation terms where 176 were within molecular process, 128 in cellular and 109 in biological process groups. The transcriptional profiles provide a foundation for deciphering the underlying mechanism for drought tolerance in lentil. Transcriptional regulation, signal transduction and secondary metabolism in two genotypes revealed significant differences at seedling stage under severe drought. Our finding suggests role of candidate genes for improving drought tolerance in lentil.
Colletotrichum lentis is a hemibiotrophic pathogen and causes anthracnose on lentil. To understand the molecular mechanism underlying the symptomatic phase of infection, a cDNA plasmid library was developed from the susceptible lentil cultivar Eston infected with an isolate of the virulent race 0 of C. lentis. The library was sequenced on the Sanger sequencing platform, generating a total of 11,094 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) representing 3,488 unigenes. Mapping of unigenes onto the C. lentis and the L. culinaris genomes resulted in the identification of 2,418 unigenes of fungal origin and 1,070 unigenes of plant origin. Gene ontology term analysis of unigenes revealed that the transcriptome contained 22 candidate effectors, such as in planta induced ToxB and CyanoVirin-N, and 26 resistance genes, including suppressor of npr1-1 constitutive 1 and dirigent. Comparative genomics analyses revealed that three of the candidate effectors are likely located in the subtelomeric regions, and two of them show no synteny with the closely related species C. higginsianum, suggesting genomic rearrangements, such as translocation during speciation to colonize different niches. The data suggest a complex molecular interplay between disease resistance proteins and effectors during compatible interaction in which the pathogen exploits defense responses mounted by the host.
Dendrobium. chrysotoxum Lindl is a commonly used species of medicinal Dendrobium which belongs to the family of Orchidaceae, locally known as "Shihu" or "Huangcao". D. chrysotoxum Lindl is widely known for medicinal values in traditional Chinese medicine as it possesses anti-inflammatory, anti-hyperglycemic induction, antitumor and antioxidant properties. To characterize the interaction between gigantol extracted from D. chrysotoxum Lindl and the AR gene, and determine gigantol's efficacy against cataractogenesis. Human lens epithelial cells (HLECs) were induced by glucose as the model group. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to assess AR gene expression. Then, the mode of interaction of gigantol with the AR gene was evaluated by UV-visible spectroscopy, atomic force microscope (AFM) and surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS). The binding constant was determined by UV-visible. Gigantol depressed AR gene expression in HLECs. UV-visible spectra preliminarily indicated that interaction between the AR gene and gigantol may follow the groove mode, with a binding constant of 1.85×10 Gigantol extracted from D. chrysotoxum Lindl not only has inhibitory effects on aldose reductase, but also inhibits AR gene expression. These findings provide a more comprehensive theoretical basis for the use of Dendrobium for the treatment of diabetic cataract.
The prognosis of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is dismal, underscoring the need for novel effective treatments. The α1,6-fucosyltransferase (fucosyltransferase 8, FUT8) has been reported to accelerate malignant potential in HCC. Our study aimed to investigate the regulation of FUT8 expression by p53 and develop a novel therapeutic strategy for targeting HCC cells using L-fucose-mediated drug delivery. Binding sites for p53 were searched for within the FUT8 promoter region. FUT8 expression was assessed by immunoblotting. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays were performed to analyze p53 binding to the FUT8 promoter. The delivery of Cy5.5-encapsulated L-fucose-liposomes (Fuc-Lip-Cy5.5) to a Lens Culinaris agglutinin-reactive fraction of α-fetoprotein (AFP-L3)-expressing HCC cells was analyzed by flow cytometry. The induction of FUT8 by histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi) -inducing acetylated -p53 was evaluated by immunoblotting. Flow cytometric analysis was performed to assess whether the activation of p53 by HDACi affected the uptake of Fuc-Lip-Cy5.5 by HCC cells. The cytotoxicity of an L-fucose-bound liposome carrying sorafenib (Fuc-Lip-sorafenib) with HDACi was assessed in vivo and in vitro. The knock down of p53 with siRNA led to decreased FUT8 expression. ChIP assays revealed p53 binds to the FUT8 promoter region. Flow cytometric analyses demonstrated the specific uptake of Fuc-Lip-Cy5.5 into AFP-L3-expressing HCC cells in a p53- and FUT8-dependent manner. HDACi upregulated the uptake of Fuc-Lip-Cy5.5 by HCC cells by increasing FUT8 via acetylated -p53. The addition of a HDACi increased apoptosis induced by Fuc-Lip-sorafenib in HCC cells. Our findings reveal that FUT8 is a p53 target gene and suggest that p53 activated by HDACi induces Fuc-Lip-sorafenib uptake by HCC cells, highlighting this pathway as a promising therapeutic intervention for HCC.
RNA-Seq using second-generation sequencing technologies permits generation of a reference unigene set for a given species, in the absence of a well-annotated genome sequence, supporting functional genomics studies, gene characterisation and detailed expression analysis for specific morphophysiological or environmental stress response traits. A reference unigene set for lentil has been developed, consisting of 58,986 contigs and scaffolds with an N50 length of 1719 bp. Comparison to gene complements from related species, reference protein databases, previously published lentil transcriptomes and a draft genome sequence validated the current dataset in terms of degree of completeness and utility. A large proportion (98%) of unigenes were expressed in more than one tissue, at varying levels. Candidate genes associated with mechanisms of tolerance to both boron toxicity and time of flowering were identified, which can eventually be used for the development of gene-based markers. This study has provided a comprehensive, assembled and annotated reference gene set for lentil that can be used for multiple applications, permitting identification of genes for pathway-specific expression analysis, genetic modification approaches, development of resources for genotypic analysis, and assistance in the annotation of a future lentil genome sequence.
Galactinol synthase (GS, EC 2.4.1.123) catalyzes the transfer of a galactosyl residue from UDP-galactose to myo-inositol to synthesize galactinol, a precursor for raffinose family oligosaccharides (RFO) biosynthesis. Screening, a cDNA library constructed with RNA isolated from developing lentil seeds, with partial GS genes resulted in identification of cDNA clones for two isoforms of GS, LcGolS1 (1336 bp, ORF-1002 bp, 334 amino acids) and LcGolS2 (1324bp, ORF-975bp, 325 amino acids) with predicted molecular weights of 38.7 kDa and 37.6 kDa, respectively. During lentil seed development, LcGolS1 transcripts showed higher accumulation during 26-32 days after flowering (DAF) corresponding to seed desiccation, while LcGolS2 showed maximum accumulation at 24 DAF, prior to increase in LcGolS1 transcripts. GS enzyme activity was maximum at 26 and 28 DAF and corresponded to galactinol accumulation, which also increased rapidly at 22 DAF with maximum accumulation at 26 DAF. Substrates for GS activity, myo-inositol and glucose/galactose were present in high concentrations during early stages of seed development but gradually decreased from 20 DAF to 32 DAF when galactinol concentration increased coinciding with increased GS enzyme activity.
Increasing yield and quality of seed storage compounds in a sustainable way is a key challenge for our societies. Genome-wide analyses conducted in both monocot and dicot angiosperms emphasized drastic transcriptional switches that occur during seed development. In Arabidopsis thaliana, a reference species, genetic and molecular analyses have demonstrated the key role of LAFL (LEC1, ABI3, FUS3, and LEC2) transcription factors (TFs), in controlling gene expression programs essential to accomplish seed maturation and the accumulation of storage compounds. Here, we summarize recent progress obtained in the characterization of these LAFL proteins, their regulation, partners and target genes. Moreover, we illustrate how these evolutionary conserved TFs can be used to engineer new crops with altered seed compositions and point out the current limitations. Last, we discuss about the interest of investigating further the environmental and epigenetic regulation of this network for the coming years.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common cancer and the second most common cause of death from cancer worldwide. Strategies to surveil and diagnose HCC in an earlier stage are urgently needed since this is when curable interventions can be offered to achieve long-term disease-free survival. Over the past few decades, research has suggested measuring alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) concentration and performing abdominal ultrasound (US) as part of routine surveillance of HCC every 6 months for high-risk patients, and many HCC guidelines worldwide have also recommended these examinations. Over the past 5 years, however, the role of serum biomarkers in HCC surveillance and diagnosis has diminished due to advances in imaging modalities. AFP was excluded from the surveillance and/or diagnostic criteria in the HCC guidelines published by some Western countries. In Asian countries, serum biomarkers such as AFP, the Lens culinaris agglutinin-reactive fraction of AFP (AFP-L3), and des-γ-carboxyprothrombin (DCP) are still recommended for HCC surveillance and are being used as an adjunctive diagnostic tool in accordance with HCC guidelines. Moreover, novel biomarkers including Dickkopf-1 (DKK1), midkine (MDK), and microRNA (miRNA) are being studied in this regard. China accounts for 50% of HCC cases worldwide, so identifying biomarkers of HCC is paramount. Recent studies have indicated the clinical utility of simultaneous measurement of AFP and DCP for the early detection of HCC in China. They are predominantly used for cases caused by HBV infection. Additional large-scale prospective studies should be conducted to establish the utility of these biomarkers.
Hematopoietic malignancies lead to disease states involving abnormal proliferation of blood cells. Ki-67 and carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester (CFSE) are assays used to examine the proliferation status of cells but affect cell viability. In this study, we used lectins to bind to surfaces of proliferating cells with different phenotypes while preserving cell viability. The mouse lymphocyte Friend leukemia F5-5.F1 cell line was stained using biotin-conjugated lectins from Canavalia ensiformis (ConA), Dolichos biflorus (DBA), Erythrina cristagalli (ECA), Lens culinaris (LCA), Phaseolus vulgaris (PHA-E4), Arachis hypogaea (PNA), Ulex europaeus (UEA) and Triticum vulgaris (WGA) and sorted by fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Morphology, gene expression and proliferation assays were performed on sorted cells. DBA, LCA and PHA-E4 probing sorted cells based on surface phenotype. Gene expression analysis showed that myelocytomatosis oncogene (Myc), cyclin D1 (Ccnd1), and cyclinD2 (Ccnd2) were more highly expressed in the DBA(High) fraction than DBA(Int) and DBA(Neg) fractions. Ki-67 expression and MTS assay correlated with the DBA-binding pattern, with DBA(High) reflecting the highest proliferative tendency. Labeling with DBA allows selection of proliferating cells using flow cytometry.
Cataract is a leading cause of visual impairment worldwide with multifactorial etiology and is a significant global health problem with increasing prevalence with age. Currently, no pharmacological measures are discovered to prevent and treat cataract and a significant number of epidemiological studies have suggested the potential role of antioxidants in the prevention of cataract by scavenging free radicals and preventing lens protein derangement and lenticular cell damage. The main goal of the present study is to evaluate Cassia tora leaves; an edible leafy vegetable employed in Ayurvedic and Chinese system of medicine for eye rejuvenation in preventing selenite-induced cataract in rat pups and to identify the active components that produce the effect. ECT pre-treatment effectively restored both enzymatic and metabolic antioxidant levels, membrane integrity and reduced metal accumulation and thus down-regulate epithelial cell death. Gene expression studies also confirmed these findings. ESI-MS analysis of ECT revealed the presence of chrysophanol, emodin, kaemferol, quercetin, stigmasterol and isoquercetin. The study suggests the possible role of C. tora in alleviating cataract pathology and presence of many anthraquinones and flavonoids. As it is an edible plant, the incorporation of these leaves in daily vegetables might prevent or delay the onset and maturation of cataract.
Many plant genes are known to be involved in the development of cambium and wood, but how the expression and functional interaction of these genes determine the unique biology of wood remains largely unknown. We used the soc1ful loss of function mutant - the woodiest genotype known in the otherwise herbaceous model plant Arabidopsis - to investigate the expression and interactions of genes involved in secondary growth (wood formation). Detailed anatomical observations of the stem in combination with mRNA sequencing were used to assess transcriptome remodeling during xylogenesis in wild-type and woody soc1ful plants. To interpret the transcriptome changes, we constructed functional gene association networks of differentially expressed genes using the STRING database. This analysis revealed functionally enriched gene association hubs that are differentially expressed in herbaceous and woody tissues. In particular, we observed the differential expression of genes related to mechanical stress and jasmonate biosynthesis/signaling during wood formation in soc1ful plants that may be an effect of greater tension within woody tissues. Our results suggest that habit shifts from herbaceous to woody life forms observed in many angiosperm lineages could have evolved convergently by genetic changes that modulate the gene expression and interaction network, and thereby redeploy the conserved wood developmental program.
The present study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy of Cassia tora leaves, an edible plant traditionally used for eye ailments, in preventing experimental cataractogenesis. Cataract is the leading cause of irreversible visual impairment worldwide characterized by the cloudiness or opacification of the lens due to the disturbance of even distribution of lens proteins and lipids. A significant number of epidemiological studies have suggested the potential role of herbal medicine in the prevention of cataract by maintaining lens architecture. The study was conducted in neonatal rat pups of 8-10 days old with an ethyl acetate fraction of Cassia tora leaves (ECT) administered by gastric intubation. After 30 days, the animals were sacrificed and various parameters such as redox status and gene expressions were evaluated in lenses. ECT administration caused a significant decrease in the onset and maturation of cataract, potentiated antioxidant defense and normalized lens crystallin expression against cataract induced animals. HPLC and ESI-MS analysis of ECT revealed the presence of flavonoids and anthraquinones. Thus, the present study indicates the therapeutic potential of Cassia tora leaves in preventing cataract and the effect is endorsed by the presence of antioxidants in Cassia tora leaves.
Cataract is the clouding or opacity that develops in the eye's lens and is considered to be an unavoidable consequence of aging due to irreversible lens damage. Free radicals and oxidant species are reported to be the major factor responsible for the onset and pathology of cataract. No pharmacological measures are formulated to treat cataract blindness and surgical removal of the opaque lens is the only remedy till date. Boosting of antioxidant potential of the lens is proved to prevent cataract and many indigenous plants have been screened for anticataractogenic potential in the last decades. The objective of the present study was to determine whether Cassia tora leaves; the plant employed in traditional medicine for eye rejuvenation and ailments, can prevent cataract in neonatal rats. Cataract was induced by a single subcutaneous injection of sodium selenite at a dose of 4 μg/g body weight on the 10th day and Cassia tora leaves was administered orally from 8th day upto 12th day at a concentration of 5 μg/g body weight. After 30 days; lens morphology, oxidant-antioxidant equilibrium, glutathione metabolism, cytoskeletal protein/gene expressions were monitored. Lens morphology, biochemical analysis and expression studies supported the anticataractogenic effect of Cassia tora leaves. In summary, it can be suggested that the consumption of these leaves afford protection to the lens with its antioxidant action and seems to be a new therapeutic approach against cataract by preventive protection.
Dry and healthy seeds of two lentil cultivars, LH90-54 (macrosperma) and LH89-48 (microsperma) were treated with three doses of ethyl methane sulphonate (0.1, 0.2 and 0.4 %). In both the cultivars, all the M, plants with sufficient seed from each treatment and control were taken to raise independent M2 plant progenies. Wider range of means in both positive and negative directions along with overall positive shift in mean for all the polygenic traits, except pod-initiation height and 100-seed weight, were observed in different treatments in M2 generation. In both the cultivars, medium dose induced highest amount of variation. The estimates of variance, GCV and PCV for different polygenic traits increased significantly over control values in all the treatments of both the cultivars. Higher estimates of heritability and genetic advance in M2 population indicated tremendous scope for the improvement of seed yield and its component traits through selection in the mutagenized material.
Green tea extract (GTE) exerts antioxidative activities in ocular tissues of rats, but high levels of (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) can induce oxidative stress. In this study, pharmacokinetics, diurnal variation of oxidative status, antioxidation and transcription factors changes in ocular tissues of rats were investigated. Rats were fed intragastrically with GTE and catechin mixtures containing different amounts of EGCG. Plasma and various ocular tissues were taken for pharmacokinetic analysis, oxidation marker testings and gene expression assays. Effects of EGCG on ocular oxidation status were assessed by 8-isoprostane level and reduced/oxidized glutathione ratio. Oxidation, inflammation and apoptosis regulations in retina were evaluated by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Epicatechin, epigallocatechin and EGCG were dominant in various ocular tissues except vitreous humor, where gallocatechin was predominant. Diurnal variation of oxidative status was found in some compartments. GTE caused oxidative stress increase in the plasma, aqueous humor, vitreous humor, cornea and retina but decrease in the lens and choroid-sclera. Catechins mixture containing half dose of EGCG lowered 8-isoprostane in the retina and lens. GTE treatment induced superoxide dismutase 1 and glutathione peroxidase-3 expressions but suppressed catalase in the retina. Our results reveal pro-oxidation of GTE with high EGCG content to the ocular tissues. Optimal EGCG level is needed for protection.
The hemibiotroph Colletotrichum lentis, causative agent of anthracnose on Lens culinaris (lentil) was recently described as a new species. During its interaction with the host plant, C. lentis likely secretes numerous effector proteins, including toxins to alter the plant's innate immunity, thereby gaining access to the host tissues for nutrition and reproduction. In silico analysis of 2000 ESTs generated from C. lentis-infected lentil leaf tissues identified 15 candidate effectors. In planta infection stage-specific gene expression waves among candidate effectors were revealed for the appressorial penetration phase, biotrophic phase and necrotrophic phase. No sign of positive selection pressure [ω (dN/dS) < 1] in effectors was detected at the intraspecific level. A single nucleotide polymorphism in the ORF of candidate effector ClCE6, used to develop a KASPar marker, differentiated perfectly between pathogenic race 0 and race 1 isolates when tested on 52 isolates arbitrarily selected from a large culture collection representing the western Canadian population of C. lentis. Furthermore, an EST encoding argininosuccinate lyase (Arg) was identified as a bacterial gene. A toxin protein ClToxB was further characterized as a potential host-specific toxin through heterologous in planta expression. The knock-down of ClToxB transcripts by RNAi resulted in reduced virulence, suggesting that ClToxB is a virulence factor. In silico analysis of the ClToxB sequence and comparative genomics revealed that ToxB is unlikely a foreign gene in the C. lentis genome. Incongruency between established species relationships and that established based on gene sequence data confirmed ToxB arose through evolution from a common ancestor, whereas the bacterial gene Arg identified in C. lentis was horizontally transferred from bacteria. EST mining and expression profiling revealed a set of in planta expressed candidate effectors. We developed a KASPar assay using effector polymorphism to differentiate C. lentis races. Comparative genomics revealed a foreign gene encoding a potential virulence factor Arg, which was horizontally transferred from bacteria into the genus Colletotrichum. ClToxB is further characterized as a host-specific toxin that is likely to contribute to quantitative differences in virulence between the races 0 and 1.
Drought and salinity are among the major abiotic stresses which, often inter-relatedly, adversely affect plant growth and productivity. Plant stress responses depend on the type of stress, on its intensity, on the species, and also on the genotype. Different accessions of a species may have evolved different mechanisms to cope with stress and to complete their life cycles. This study is focused on lentil, an important Mediterranean legume with high quality protein for the human diet. The effects of salinity and drought on germination and early growth of Castelluccio di Norcia (CAST), Pantelleria (PAN), Ustica (UST), and Eston (EST) accessions were evaluated to identify metabolic and phenotypic traits related to drought and/or salinity stress tolerance. The results showed a relationship between imposed stresses and performance of the cultivars. According to germination frequencies, the accession ranking was as follows: NaCl resistant > susceptible, PAN > UST > CAST > EST; polyethylene glycol (PEG) resistant > susceptible, CAST > UST > EST > PAN. Seedling tolerance rankings were: NaCl resistant > susceptible, CAST ≈ UST > PAN ≈ EST; PEG resistant > susceptible, CAST > EST ≈ UST > PAN. Changes in the metabolite profiles, mainly quantitative rather than qualitative, were observed in the same cultivar in respect to the treatments, and among the cultivars under the same treatment. Metabolic differences in the stress tolerance of the different genotypes were related to a reduction in the levels of tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates. The relevant differences, between the most NaCl-tolerant genotype (PAN) and the most sensitive one (EST) were related to the decrease in the threonic acid level. Stress-specific metabolite indicators were also identified: ornithine and asparagine as markers of drought stress and alanine and homoserine as markers of salinity stress.
Faba bean (Vicia faba L.) is a globally important nitrogen-fixing legume, which is widely grown in a diverse range of environments. In this work, we mine and validate a set of 845 SNPs from the aligned transcriptomes of two contrasting inbred lines. Each V. faba SNP is assigned by BLAST analysis to a single Medicago orthologue. This set of syntenically anchored polymorphisms were then validated as individual KASP assays, classified according to their informativeness and performance on a panel of 37 inbred lines, and the best performing 757 markers used to genotype six mapping populations. The six resulting linkage maps were merged into a single consensus map on which 687 SNPs were placed on six linkage groups, each presumed to correspond to one of the six V. faba chromosomes. This sequence-based consensus map was used to explore synteny with the most closely related crop species, lentil and the most closely related fully sequenced genome, Medicago. Large tracts of uninterrupted colinearity were found between faba bean and Medicago, making it relatively straightforward to predict gene content and order in mapped genetic interval. As a demonstration of this, we mapped a flower colour gene to a 2-cM interval of Vf chromosome 2 which was highly colinear with Mt3. The obvious candidate gene from 78 gene models in the collinear Medicago chromosome segment was the previously characterized MtWD40-1 gene controlling anthocyanin production in Medicago and resequencing of the Vf orthologue showed a putative causative deletion of the entire 5' end of the gene.
Russeting, a commercially important defect in the exocarp of apple (Malus × domestica), is mainly characterized by the accumulation of suberin on the inner part of the cell wall of the outer epidermal cell layers. However, knowledge on the underlying genetic components triggering this trait remains sketchy. Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed on the exocarps of three russeted and three waxy apple varieties. This experimental design was chosen to lower the impact of genotype on the obtained results. Validation by qPCR was carried out on representative genes and additional varieties. Gene ontology enrichment revealed a repression of lignin and cuticle biosynthesis genes in russeted exocarps, concomitantly with an enhanced expression of suberin deposition, stress responsive, primary sensing, NAC and MYB-family transcription factors, and specific triterpene biosynthetic genes. Notably, a strong correlation (R(2) = 0.976) between the expression of a MYB93-like transcription factor and key suberin biosynthetic genes was found. Our results suggest that russeting is induced by a decreased expression of cuticle biosynthetic genes, leading to a stress response which not only affects suberin deposition, but also the entire structure of the cell wall. The large number of candidate genes identified in this study provides a solid foundation for further functional studies.
Medicago truncatula is widely used for analyses of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis and nodulation. To complement the genetic and genomic resources that exist for this species, we generated fluorescent protein fusions that label the nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, trans-Golgi network, plasma membrane, apoplast, late endosome/multivesicular bodies (MVB), transitory late endosome/ tonoplast, tonoplast, plastids, mitochondria, peroxisomes, autophagosomes, plasmodesmata, actin, microtubules, periarbuscular membrane (PAM) and periarbuscular apoplastic space (PAS) and expressed them from the constitutive AtUBQ10 promoter and the AM symbiosis-specific MtBCP1 promoter. All marker constructs showed the expected expression patterns and sub-cellular locations in M. truncatula root cells. As a demonstration of their utility, we used several markers to investigate AM symbiosis where root cells undergo major cellular alterations to accommodate their fungal endosymbiont. We demonstrate that changes in the position and size of the nuclei occur prior to hyphal entry into the cortical cells and do not require DELLA signaling. Changes in the cytoskeleton, tonoplast and plastids also occur in the colonized cells and in contrast to previous studies, we show that stromulated plastids are abundant in cells with developing and mature arbuscules, while lens-shaped plastids occur in cells with degenerating arbuscules. Arbuscule development and secretion of the PAM creates a periarbuscular apoplastic compartment which has been assumed to be continuous with apoplast of the cell. However, fluorescent markers secreted to the periarbuscular apoplast challenge this assumption. This marker resource will facilitate cell biology studies of AM symbiosis, as well as other aspects of legume biology.
Glycosylation is one of the common posttranslational modifications in eukaryotes. Recently, glycosylated proteins have also been identified in prokaryotes. A few glycosylated proteins, including gingipains, have been identified in Porphyromonas gingivalis, a major pathogen associated with chronic periodontitis. However, no other glycosylated proteins have been found. The present study identified glycoproteins in P. gingivalis cell lysates by lectin blotting. Whole-cell lysates reacted with concanavalin A (ConA), Lens culinaris agglutinin (LCA), Phaseolus vulgaris erythroagglutinin (PHA-E4), and wheat germ agglutinin (WGA), suggesting the presence of mannose-, N-acetylgalactosamine-, or N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc)-modified proteins. Next, glycoproteins were isolated by ConA-, LCA-, PHA-E4-, or WGA-conjugated lectin affinity chromatography although specific proteins were enriched only by the WGA column. Mass spectrometry analysis showed that an OmpA-like, heterotrimeric complex formed by Pgm6 and Pgm7 (Pgm6/7) was the major glycoprotein isolated from P. gingivalis. Deglycosylation experiments and Western blotting with a specific antibody indicated that Pgm6/7 was modified with O-GlcNAc. When whole-cell lysates from P. gingivalis mutant strains with deletions of Pgm6 and Pgm7 were applied to a WGA column, homotrimeric Pgm7, but not Pgm6, was isolated. Heterotrimeric Pgm6/7 had the strongest affinity for fibronectin of all the extracellular proteins tested, whereas homotrimeric Pgm7 showed reduced binding activity. These findings suggest that the heterotrimeric structure is important for the biological activity of glycosylated WGA-binding OmpA-like proteins in P. gingivalis.
Gene-based SNPs were identified and mapped in pea using five recombinant inbred line populations segregating for traits of agronomic importance. Pea (Pisum sativum L.) is one of the world's oldest domesticated crops and has been a model system in plant biology and genetics since the work of Gregor Mendel. Pea is the second most widely grown pulse crop in the world following common bean. The importance of pea as a food crop is growing due to its combination of moderate protein concentration, slowly digestible starch, high dietary fiber concentration, and its richness in micronutrients; however, pea has lagged behind other major crops in harnessing recent advances in molecular biology, genomics and bioinformatics, partly due to its large genome size with a large proportion of repetitive sequence, and to the relatively limited investment in research in this crop globally. The objective of this research was the development of a genome-wide transcriptome-based pea single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) marker platform using next-generation sequencing technology. A total of 1,536 polymorphic SNP loci selected from over 20,000 non-redundant SNPs identified using deep transcriptome sequencing of eight diverse Pisum accessions were used for genotyping in five RIL populations using an Illumina GoldenGate assay. The first high-density pea SNP map defining all seven linkage groups was generated by integrating with previously published anchor markers. Syntenic relationships of this map with the model legume Medicago truncatula and lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.) maps were established. The genic SNP map establishes a foundation for future molecular breeding efforts by enabling both the identification and tracking of introgression of genomic regions harbouring QTLs related to agronomic and seed quality traits.
Given recent advances in pulse molecular biology, genomics-driven breeding has emerged as a promising approach to address the issues of limited genetic gain and low productivity in various pulse crops. The global population is continuously increasing and is expected to reach nine billion by 2050. This huge population pressure will lead to severe shortage of food, natural resources and arable land. Such an alarming situation is most likely to arise in developing countries due to increase in the proportion of people suffering from protein and micronutrient malnutrition. Pulses being a primary and affordable source of proteins and minerals play a key role in alleviating the protein calorie malnutrition, micronutrient deficiencies and other undernourishment-related issues. Additionally, pulses are a vital source of livelihood generation for millions of resource-poor farmers practising agriculture in the semi-arid and sub-tropical regions. Limited success achieved through conventional breeding so far in most of the pulse crops will not be enough to feed the ever increasing population. In this context, genomics-assisted breeding (GAB) holds promise in enhancing the genetic gains. Though pulses have long been considered as orphan crops, recent advances in the area of pulse genomics are noteworthy, e.g. discovery of genome-wide genetic markers, high-throughput genotyping and sequencing platforms, high-density genetic linkage/QTL maps and, more importantly, the availability of whole-genome sequence. With genome sequence in hand, there is a great scope to apply genome-wide methods for trait mapping using association studies and to choose desirable genotypes via genomic selection. It is anticipated that GAB will speed up the progress of genetic improvement of pulses, leading to the rapid development of cultivars with higher yield, enhanced stress tolerance and wider adaptability.
The present study was carried out to investigate whether the dietary histidine requirement to reduce cataract development is higher than that for growth in Atlantic salmon smolts (Salmo salar L.) after seawater transfer and whether dietary vegetable oils contribute to cataractogenesis. Duplicate groups of salmon smolts were fed ten experimental diets with either fish oil (FO) or a vegetable oil (VO) mix replacing 70 % FO and histidine at five target levels (10, 12, 14, 16 and 18 g His/kg diet) for 13 weeks after seawater transfer. The VO diet-fed fish exhibited somewhat inferior growth and feed intakes compared with the FO diet-fed fish, irrespective of the dietary histidine concentration. Both cataract prevalence and severity were negatively correlated with the dietary histidine concentration, while lens N-acetyl-histidine (NAH) concentrations were positively correlated with it. The fatty acid profiles of muscle, heart and lens reflected that of the dietary oils to a descending degree and did not affect the observed cataract development. Muscle, heart and brain histidine concentrations reflected dietary histidine concentrations, while the corresponding tissue imidazole (anserine, carnosine and NAH) concentrations appeared to saturate differently with time. The expression level of liver histidase was not affected by the dietary histidine concentration, while the liver antioxidant response was affected in the VO diet-fed fish on a transcriptional level. The lowest severity of cataracts could be achieved by feeding 13·4 g His/kg feed, independently of the dietary lipid source. However, the present study also suggests that the dietary histidine requirement to minimise the risk of cataract development is 14·4 g His/kg feed.
Brassinosteroid (BR) hormones are essential for plant growth and development. In Arabidopsis, the general understanding of BR signaling has been greatly attained by genetic and biochemical approaches that led to the identification of central BR signaling components, from the BRI1 receptor at the plasma membrane to downstream acting BR-regulated BRZ1 and BES1 transcription factors in the nuclei. Recently, an emerging trend is being established to further advance our understanding of the BR signaling pathway in plant development. Scientists have turned on the microscope lens turret to revisit the pleiotropic phenotypes of the BR mutants at a higher magnification, uncovering novel and specific cellular defects in the plant. In-depth phenotypic analysis in combination with the search for cell-specific signaling components that are responsible for those particular defects in the mutants are leading to: (1) definition of novel roles for BRs in vascular development, (2) unraveling BR function in cell division through quantitative analysis of Arabidopsis root growth, (3) establishment of a molecular connection between known patterning and BR-signaling components in organ boundary and stomata development and (4) development of novel strategies toward the identification of BR signaling components with spatiotemporal resolution. In this review, we highlight the importance of these emerging studies to investigate the spatiotemporal control of BR pathways in plant development.
Research on the functional properties of nucleosome structure and composition dynamics has revealed that chromatin-level regulation is an essential component of light signalling and clock function in plants, two processes that rely extensively on transcriptional controls. In particular, several types of histone post-translational modifications and chromatin-bound factors act sequentially or in combination to establish transcriptional patterns and to fine-tune the transcript abundance of a large repertoire of light-responsive genes and clock components. Cytogenetic approaches have also identified light-induced higher-order chromatin changes that dynamically organize the condensation of chromosomal domains into sub-nuclear foci containing silenced repeat elements. In this review, we report recently identified molecular actors that establish chromatin state dynamics in response to light signals such as photoperiod, intensity, and spectral quality. We also highlight the chromatin-dependent mechanisms that contribute to the 24-h circadian gene expression and its impact on plant physiology and development. The commonalities and contrasts of light- and clock-associated chromatin-based mechanisms are discussed, with particular emphasis on their impact on the selective regulation and rapid modulation of responsive genes.
Large-scale SNP discovery and dense genetic mapping in a lentil intraspecific cross permitted identification of a single chromosomal region controlling tolerance to boron toxicity, an important breeding objective. Lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.) is a highly nutritious food legume crop that is cultivated world-wide. Until recently, lentil has been considered a genomic 'orphan' crop, limiting the feasibility of marker-assisted selection strategies in breeding programs. The present study reports on the identification of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from transcriptome sequencing data, utilisation of expressed sequence tag (EST)-derived simple sequence repeat (SSR) and SNP markers for construction of a gene-based genetic linkage map, and identification of markers in close linkage to major QTLs for tolerance to boron (B) toxicity. A total of 2,956 high-quality SNP markers were identified from a lentil EST database. Sub-sets of 546 SSRs and 768 SNPs were further used for genetic mapping of an intraspecific mapping population (Cassab × ILL2024) that exhibits segregation for B tolerance. Comparative analysis of the lentil linkage map with the sequenced genomes of Medicago truncatula Gaertn., soybean (Glycine max [L.] Merr.) and Lotus japonicus L. indicated blocks of conserved macrosynteny, as well as a number of rearrangements. A single genomic region was found to be associated with variation for B tolerance in lentil, based on evaluation performed over 2 years. Comparison of flanking markers to genome sequences of model species (M. truncatula, soybean and Arabidopsis thaliana) identified candidate genes that are functionally associated with B tolerance, and could potentially be used for diagnostic marker development in lentil.
To investigate the possible free radical-scavenging activity of an extract of Cineraria maritima on selenite-induced cataractous lenses in Wistar rat pups. In the present study, Wistar rat pups were divided into three experimental groups. On P10, Group I (control) rat pups received an intraperitoneal injection of 0.89% saline. Rats in groups II (selenite-challenged, untreated) and III (selenite-challenged, C. maritima treated) received a subcutaneous injection of sodium selenite (19 μmol/kg bodyweight); Group III rat pups also received an intraperitoneal injection of the extract of C. maritima (350 mg/kg bodyweight) once daily P9-14. Both eyes of each pup were examined from P16 until P30. Cytochemical localization of nitroblue tetrazolium salts and generation of superoxide, hydroxyl, and nitric oxide levels were measured. The expression of the inducible nitric oxide synthase gene was evaluated with reverse transcription-PCR. Immunoblot analysis was also performed to confirm the differential expression of the inducible nitric oxide synthase protein. Subcutaneous injection of sodium selenite led to severe oxidative damage in the lenticular tissues, shown by increased formation of formazan crystals, elevated generation of superoxide, hydroxyl, and nitric oxide radicals, and elevated inducible nitric oxide synthase gene and protein expression that possibly contributed to the opacification of the lens and thus cataract formation. When rat pups were treated with intraperitoneal administration of the extract of C. maritima, the generation of free radicals as well as the messenger ribonucleic acid and protein expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase were maintained at near normal levels. The data generated by this study suggest that an ethanolic extract of C. maritima possibly prevents cataractogenesis in a rat model by minimizing free radical generation.
The objectives of this study were to evaluate the effects of equine growth hormone (eGH) on nuclear and cytoplasmic maturation of equine oocytes in vitro, steroid production by cumulus cells, and expression and subcellular localization of eGH-receptors (eGH-R) on equine ovarian follicles. Cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) were recovered by aspirating follicles <30 mm in diameter from abattoir-derived ovaries. The COCs were morphologically evaluated and randomly allocated to be cultured in either a control maturation medium or supplemented with 400 ng/mL eGH, for 30 h at 38.5°C in air with 5% CO2. The COCs were stained with 10 μg/mL propidium iodide and 10 μg/mL fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled Lens culinaris agglutinin. Chromatin configuration and distribution of cortical granules were assessed via confocal microscopy. Compared to control, COCs incubated with eGH had: more oocytes that reached metaphase II (35/72, 48.6% vs. 60/89, 67.4%, respectively; P=0.02); greater concentrations of testosterone (0.21 ± 0.04 vs. 0.06 ± 0.01 ng/mL; P=0.01), progesterone (0.05 ± 0.01 vs. 0.02 ± 0.00 ng/mL; P=0.04), and oestradiol (76.80 ± 14.26 vs. 39.58 ± 8.87 pg/mL; P=0.05) in the culture medium, but no significant differences in concentration of androstenedione. Based on Real Time RT-PCR analyses, expression of the eGH-R gene was greater in cumulus cells and COCs at the start than at the end of in vitro maturation. Positive immunostaining for eGH-R was present in cumulus cells, the oocytes and granulosa cells. In conclusion, addition of eGH to maturation medium increased rates of cytoplasmic maturation and had an important role in equine oocyte maturation, perhaps mediated by the presence of eGH-R in ovarian follicles.
Genomic resources such as ESTs, molecular markers and linkage maps are essential for crop improvement. However, these resources are still limited in important legumes such as lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.), which is valued world wide as a rich source of dietary protein. In this study, the de novo transcriptome assembly of 119,855,798 short reads, generated by Illumina paired-end sequencing, was performed using various assembly programs. This resulted in 42,196 nonredundant high-quality transcripts of average length 810 bases, N50 value of 1,432 and an average expression per transcript of 26.21 rpkm reads per kilobase per million(RPKM). Similarity search with the unigenes and protein sequences of other plants resulted in maximum similarity with soybean. A total of 20,009 nonredundant transcripts showed similarity with the UniProtKB database and of these, 18,064 transcripts were grouped into three main GO categories, that is, biological process (15,126), molecular function (15,505) and cellular component (9,434). Annotated transcripts were mapped to 289 predicted Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways and 8,893 transcripts were classified into 24 functional categories based on Cluster of Orthologous Groups (COG) of proteins. Mining the data set for the presence of SSRs resulted in 8,722 SSRs with a frequency occurrence of one SSR per 3.92 kb. From these, 5,673 SSR primer pairs were designed, and a subset of these were utilized for diversity analysis. This study, which provides a large data set of annotated transcripts and gene-based SSR markers, would serve as a foundation for various applications in lentil breeding and genetics.
Anthracnose of lentil, caused by the hemibiotrophic fungal pathogen Colletotrichum truncatum is a serious threat to lentil production in western Canada. Colletotrichum truncatum employs a bi-phasic infection strategy characterized by initial symptomless biotrophic and subsequent destructive necrotrophic colonization of its host. The transition from biotrophy to necrotrophy (known as the biotrophy-necrotrophy switch [BNS]) is critical in anthracnose development. Understanding plant responses during the BNS is the key to designing a strategy for incorporating resistance against hemibiotrophic pathogens either via introgression of resistance genes or quantitative trait loci contributing to host defense into elite cultivars, or via incorporation of resistance by biotechnological means. The in planta BNS of C. truncatum was determined by histochemical analysis of infected lentil leaf tissues in time-course experiments. A total of 2852 lentil expressed sequence tags (ESTs) derived from C. truncatum-infected leaf tissues were analyzed to catalogue defense related genes. These ESTs could be assembled into 1682 unigenes. Of these, 101 unigenes encoded membrane and transport associated proteins, 159 encoded proteins implicated in signal transduction and 387 were predicted to be stress and defense related proteins (GenBank accessions: JG293480 to JG293479). The most abundant class of defense related proteins contained pathogenesis related proteins (encoded by 125 ESTs) followed by heat shock proteins, glutathione S-transferase, protein kinases, protein phosphatase, zinc finger proteins, peroxidase, GTP binding proteins, resistance proteins and syringolide-induced proteins. Quantitative RT-PCR was conducted to compare the expression of two resistance genes of the NBS-LRR class in susceptible and partially resistant genotypes. One (contig186) was induced 6 days post-inoculation (dpi) in a susceptible host genotype (Eston) whereas the mRNA level of another ( LT21-1990) peaked 4 dpi in a partially resistant host genotype (Robin), suggesting roles in conditioning the susceptibility and conferring tolerance to the pathogen, respectively. Data obtained in this study suggest that lentil cells recognize C. truncatum at the BNS and in response, mount an inducible defense as evident by a high number of transcripts (23% of the total pathogen-responsive lentil transcriptome) encoding defense related proteins. Temporal expression polymorphism of defense related genes could be used to distinguish the response of a lentil genotype as susceptible or resistant.
In plants, cystathionine γ-synthase (CGS) and threonine synthase (TS) compete for the branch-point metabolite O-phospho-L-homoserine. These enzymes are potential targets for metabolic engineering studies, aiming to alter the flux through the competing methionine and threonine biosynthetic pathways, with the goal of increasing methionine production. Although CGS and TS have been characterized in the model organisms Escherichia coli and Arabidopsis thaliana, little information is available on these enzymes in other, particularly plant, species. The functional CGS and TS coding sequences from the grain legumes Cicer arietinum (chickpea) and Lens culinaris (lentil) identified in this study share approximately 80% amino acid sequence identity with the corresponding sequences from Glycine max. At least 7 active-site residues of grain legume CGS and TS are conserved in the model bacterial enzymes, including the catalytic base. Putative processing sites that remove the targeting sequence and result in functional TS were identified in the target species.
ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase) is a key enzyme in plant starch biosynthesis. It contains large (LS) and small (SS) subunits encoded by two different genes. In this study, we explored the transcriptional regulation of both the LS and SS subunits of AGPase in stem and leaf under different photoperiods length in lentil. To this end, we first isolated and characterized different isoforms of the LS and SS of lentil AGPase and then we performed quantitative real time PCR (qPCR) to see the effect of photoperiod length on the transcription of the AGPase isforms under the different photoperiod regimes in lentil. Analysis of the qPCR results revealed that the transcription of different isoforms of the LSs and the SSs of lentil AGPase are differentially regulated when photoperiod shifted from long-day to short-day in stem and leaves. While transcript levels of LS1 and SS2 in leaf significantly decreased, overall transcript levels of SS1 increased in short-day regime. Our results indicated that day length affects the transcription of lentil AGPase isoforms differentially in stems and leaves most likely to supply carbon from the stem to other tissues to regulate carbon metabolism under short-day conditions.
Zinc-fingers and homeoboxes 2 (ZHX2) and zinc-finger and BTB domain containing 20 (ZBTB20) repress the postnatal expression of α-fetoprotein (AFP) by interacting with the AFP gene promoter regions. ZHX2 inhibits the expression of AFP and cyclins A and E. ZBTB20 is negatively regulated by CUX1, which promotes cell-cycle progression, suggesting that AFP reactivation is closely linked to hepatocyte proliferation. A slight elevation in the serum AFP level often occurs in patients with chronic hepatitis C in the absence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and is an independent risk factor for HCC development to complement the fibrosis stage. In addition, the sustained elevation of AFP after interferon therapy is a risk factor of HCC development. AFP levels are clinically useful in predicting the outcomes of liver transplantation and sorafenib therapy for HCC patients. A low preoperative AFP level is a predictor of long-term survival and is associated with a low recurrence rate of HCC after liver transplantation. AFP response (≥20% decrease in AFP during 6-8 weeks of treatment) rather than radiological outcomes is a significant prognostic factor for survival in sorafenib-treated HCC patients. Highly sensitive Lens culinaris agglutinin-reactive AFP (AFP-L3) is 5-10 times more sensitive than conventional AFP-L3, and useful for early detection of HCC in patients with total AFP below 20 ng/mL.
Current RNA isolation methods have limitations in their ability to yield good quality and quantity of RNA from plants that have high content of phenols, polysaccharides and storage proteins. Existing methods also do not eliminate accompanying chromosomal DNA in RNA preparation that causes false positives in gene expression studies. Standard isolation technique was modified for rapid and quick extraction of RNA, and lentil tissue most appropriate to extract good quality RNA was determined. The concentration of the phenol blocker polyvinylpyrrolidone in the extraction buffer was determined, DNase I was added to eliminate chromosomal DNA and the timing of this step was optimized. RNA up to 568 μg of RNA from 1 g of tissue was isolated from four different tissues of lentil in less than half the time typically required by reported methods. The method avoids the use of toxic phenol-chloroform, hazardous guanidinium thiocyanate (GTC) and laborious CsCl ultracentrifugation. Absorbance A260/A280 ratio of 1.9 and A260/A230 ratio of 2.7 reveal RNA to be of high purity. Modified method yielded RNA that was free from contaminants and suitable for RT-PCR and cDNA library construction.
Artificial neural network (ANN), pseudo second-order kinetic, and gene expression programming (GEP) models were constructed to predict removal efficiency of Lanaset Red G (LR G) using lentil straw (LS) based on 1152 experimental sets. The sorption process was dependent on adsorbent particle size, pH, initial dye concentration, and contact time. These variables were used as input to construct a neural network for prediction of dye uptake as output. ANN was an excellent model because of the lowest error and the highest coefficient values. ANN indicated that initial dye concentration had the strongest effect on dye uptake, followed by pH. The GEP model successfully described the sorption kinetic process as function of adsorbent particle size, pH, initial dye concentration, and contact time in a single equation. Low cost adsorbent, LS, had a great potential to remove LR G as an eco-friendly process, which was well described by GEP and ANN.
Legumes were among the first plant species to be domesticated, and accompanied cereals in expansion of agriculture from the Fertile Crescent into diverse environments across the Mediterranean basin, Europe, Central Asia, and the Indian subcontinent. Although several recent studies have outlined the molecular basis for domestication and eco-geographic adaptation in the two main cereals from this region, wheat and barley, similar questions remain largely unexplored in their legume counterparts. Here we identify two major loci controlling differences in photoperiod response between wild and domesticated pea, and show that one of these, high response to photoperiod (HR), is an ortholog of early flowering 3 (ELF3), a gene involved in circadian clock function. We found that a significant proportion of flowering time variation in global pea germplasm is controlled by HR, with a single, widespread functional variant conferring altered circadian rhythms and the reduced photoperiod response associated with the spring habit. We also present evidence that ELF3 has a similar role in lentil, another major legume crop, with a distinct functional variant contributing to reduced photoperiod response in cultivars widely deployed in short-season environments. Our results identify the factor likely to have permitted the successful prehistoric expansion of legume cultivation to Northern Europe, and define a conserved genetic basis for major adaptive changes in flowering phenology and growth habit in an important crop group.
The hemibiotrophic fungus Colletotrichum truncatum causes anthracnose disease on lentils and a few other grain legumes. It shows initial symptomless intracellular growth, where colonized host cells remain viable (biotrophy), and then switches to necrotrophic growth, killing the colonized host plant tissues. Here, we report a novel effector gene, CtNUDIX, from C. truncatum that is exclusively expressed during the late biotrophic phase (before the switch to necrotrophy) and elicits a hypersensitive response (HR)-like cell death in tobacco leaves transiently expressing the effector. CtNUDIX homologs, which contain a signal peptide and a Nudix hydrolase domain, may be unique to hemibiotrophic fungal and fungus-like plant pathogens. CtNUDIX lacking a signal peptide or a Nudix motif failed to induce cell death in tobacco. Expression of CtNUDIX:eGFP in tobacco suggested that the fusion protein might act on the host cell plasma membrane. Overexpression of CtNUDIX in C. truncatum and the rice blast pathogen, Magnaporthe oryzae, resulted in incompatibility with the hosts lentil and barley, respectively, by causing an HR-like response in infected host cells associated with the biotrophic invasive hyphae. These results suggest that C. truncatum and possibly M. oryzae elicit cell death to signal the transition from biotrophy to necrotrophy.
Profiling of DNA and histone modifications has recently allowed the establishment of reference epigenomes from several model organisms. This identified a major chromatin state for active genes that contains monoubiquitinated H2B (H2Bub), a mark linked to transcription elongation. However, assessment of dynamic chromatin changes during the reprogramming of gene expression in response to extrinsic or developmental signals has been more difficult. Here we used the major developmental switch that Arabidopsis thaliana plants undergo upon their initial perception of light, known as photomorphogenesis, as a paradigm to assess spatial and temporal dynamics of monoubiquitinated H2B (H2Bub) and its impact on transcriptional responses. The process involves rapid and extensive transcriptional reprogramming and represents a developmental window well suited to studying cell division-independent chromatin changes. Genome-wide H2Bub distribution was determined together with transcriptome profiles at three time points during early photomorphogenesis. This revealed de novo marking of 177 genes upon the first hour of illumination, illustrating the dynamic nature of H2Bub enrichment in a genomic context. Gene upregulation was associated with H2Bub enrichment, while H2Bub levels generally remained stable during gene downregulation. We further report that H2Bub influences the modulation of gene expression, as both gene up- and downregulation were globally weaker in hub1 mutant plants that lack H2Bub. H2Bub-dependent regulation notably impacted genes with fast and transient light induction, and several circadian clock components whose mRNA levels are tightly regulated by sharp oscillations. Based on these findings, we propose that H2B monoubiquitination is part of a transcription-coupled, chromatin-based mechanism to rapidly modulate gene expression.
Two-component signal transduction systems (TCS) are a main strategy used by bacteria to sense and adapt to changes in their environment. In the legume symbiont Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viciae VF39, mutation of chvG, a histidine kinase, caused a number of pleiotropic phenotypes. ChvG mutants are unable to grow on proline, glutamate, histidine, or arginine as the sole carbon source. The chvG mutant secreted smaller amounts of acidic and neutral surface polysaccharides and accumulated abnormally large amounts of poly-ß-hydroxybutyrate. Mutation of chvG caused symbiotic defects on peas, lentils, and vetch; nodules formed by the chvG mutant were small and white and contained only a few cells that had failed to differentiate into bacteroids. Mutation of chvG also destabilized the outer membrane of R. leguminosarum, resulting in increased sensitivity to membrane stressors. Constitutive expression of ropB, the outer membrane protein-encoding gene, restored membrane stability and rescued the sensitivity phenotypes described above. Similar phenotypes have been described for mutations in other ChvG-regulated genes encoding a conserved operon of unknown function and in the fabXL genes required for synthesis of the lipid A very-long-chain fatty acid, suggesting that ChvG is a key component of the envelope stress response in Rhizobium leguminosarum. Collectively, the results of this study demonstrate the important and unique role the ChvG/ChvI TCS plays in the physiology, metabolism, and symbiotic competency of R. leguminosarum.
Cip-interacting zinc finger protein 1 (Ciz1) stimulates DNA replication and has been implicated in the tumorigenesis of breast cancer cells. In order to investigate the possibility of using medicinal glucocorticoids against breast cancer, we studied whether certain glucocorticoids affect the expression of Ciz1. The in vitro effect of clobetasol treatment on the reduction of Ciz1 expression was detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Western blotting also confirmed the down-regulation of the protein in a dose-dependent manner upon clobetasol treatment in U937 monocytoid cells. Furthermore, we found that Ciz1 protein expression was decreased after pre-treatment of the cells with clobetasol and genistein. An extract of Lens culinaris also had a synergistic effect on the repression of Ciz1 protein expression.
Lectins are proteins that bind specifically to the carbohydrate moiety of glyco-conjugates. Japanese mistletoe lectin given intragastrically affected cytokine gene expression in the mouse intestine. This study examines the actions of Lens culinaris agglutinin (LCA) on the gene expression of gluconeogenic enzymes in the intestine. The results of quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction indicated that LCA caused an up-regulation of the gene expression of glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK). This change was correlated with an increase in the expression of two transcription factors, HNF1α and HNF4α. Experiments using human colonic cancer Caco-2 cells demonstrated that LCA up-regulated the gene expression of G6Pase and PEPCK whereas insulin had the opposite effect. In addition, the observed up-regulation of HNF4α gene expression in the duodenum raises the possibility that the lectin promotes the colorectal cancer. Lentil beans should be cooked well to avoid unfavourable effects of LCA.
Hemibiotrophic phytopathogenic fungi cause devastating diseases in agronomically important crops. These fungal pathogens exploit a stealth bi-phasic infection strategy to colonize host plants. Their morphological and nutritional transition from biotrophy (characterized by voluminous intracellular primary hyphae) to necrotrophy (characterized by thin secondary hyphae) known as the biotrophy-necrotrophy switch (hemibiotrophy) is critical in symptom and disease development. To establish successful hemibiotrophic parasitism, pathogens likely secrete suites of proteins at the switch that constitute the biotrophy-necrotrophy switch secretome. To catalogue such proteins, a directional cDNA library was constructed from mRNA isolated from infected Lens culinaris leaflet tissues displaying the switch of Colletotrichum truncatum, and 5000 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were generated. Four potential groups (hydrolytic enzymes, cell envelope-associated proteins [CEAPs], candidate effectors and proteins with diverse functions) were identified from pathogen-derived ESTs. Expression profiling of transcripts encoding CEAPs and candidate effectors in an infection time-course revealed that the majority of these transcripts were expressed or induced during the necrotrophic phase and repressed during the biotrophic phase of in planta colonization, indicating the massive accumulation of proteins at the switch. Taken together, our data suggest that the hemibiotrophic mode of fungal proliferation entails complex interactions of a pathogen with its host wherein the pathogen requires live host cells prior to switching to the necrotrophic phase. The microbial proteins employed during pathogenesis are likely to have defined roles at specific stages of pathogenesis.
Colletotrichum truncatum is a haploid, hemibiotrophic, ascomycete fungal pathogen that causes anthracnose disease on many economically important leguminous crops. This pathogen exploits sequential biotrophic- and necrotrophic- infection strategies to colonize the host. Transition from biotrophy to a destructive necrotrophic phase called the biotrophy-necrotrophy switch is critical in symptom development. C. truncatum likely secretes an arsenal of proteins that are implicated in maintaining a compatible interaction with its host. Some of them might be transition specific. A directional cDNA library was constructed from mRNA isolated from infected Lens culinaris leaflet tissues displaying the biotrophy-necrotrophy switch of C. truncatum and 5000 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) with an average read of > 600 bp from the 5-prime end were generated. Nearly 39% of the ESTs were predicted to encode proteins of fungal origin and among these, 162 ESTs were predicted to contain N-terminal signal peptides (SPs) in their deduced open reading frames (ORFs). The 162 sequences could be assembled into 122 tentative unigenes comprising 32 contigs and 90 singletons. Sequence analyses of unigenes revealed four potential groups: hydrolases, cell envelope associated proteins (CEAPs), candidate effectors and other proteins. Eleven candidate effector genes were identified based on features common to characterized fungal effectors, i.e. they encode small, soluble (lack of transmembrane domain), cysteine-rich proteins with a putative SP. For a selected subset of CEAPs and candidate effectors, semiquantitative RT-PCR showed that these transcripts were either expressed constitutively in both in vitro and in planta or induced during plant infection. Using potato virus X (PVX) based transient expression assays, we showed that one of the candidate effectors, i. e. contig 8 that encodes a cerato-platanin (CP) domain containing protein, unlike CP proteins from other fungal pathogens was unable to elicit a hypersensitive response (HR). The current study catalogues proteins putatively secreted at the in planta biotrophy-necrotrophy transition of C. truncatum. Some of these proteins may have a role in establishing compatible interaction with the host plant.
Lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.) is a cool-season grain legume which provides a rich source of protein for human consumption. In terms of genomic resources, lentil is relatively underdeveloped, in comparison to other Fabaceae species, with limited available data. There is hence a significant need to enhance such resources in order to identify novel genes and alleles for molecular breeding to increase crop productivity and quality. Tissue-specific cDNA samples from six distinct lentil genotypes were sequenced using Roche 454 GS-FLX Titanium technology, generating c. 1.38 × 106 expressed sequence tags (ESTs). De novo assembly generated a total of 15,354 contigs and 68,715 singletons. The complete unigene set was sequence-analysed against genome drafts of the model legume species Medicago truncatula and Arabidopsis thaliana to identify 12,639, and 7,476 unique matches, respectively. When compared to the genome of Glycine max, a total of 20,419 unique hits were observed corresponding to c. 31% of the known gene space. A total of 25,592 lentil unigenes were subsequently annoated from GenBank. Simple sequence repeat (SSR)-containing ESTs were identified from consensus sequences and a total of 2,393 primer pairs were designed. A subset of 192 EST-SSR markers was screened for validation across a panel 12 cultivated lentil genotypes and one wild relative species. A total of 166 primer pairs obtained successful amplification, of which 47.5% detected genetic polymorphism. A substantial collection of ESTs has been developed from sequence analysis of lentil genotypes using second-generation technology, permitting unigene definition across a broad range of functional categories. As well as providing resources for functional genomics studies, the unigene set has permitted significant enhancement of the number of publicly-available molecular genetic markers as tools for improvement of this species.
To investigate the mechanism and effect of diallyl disulfide (DADS) on the bystander effect of herpes simplex virus kinase/ganciclovir (HSV-tk/GCV) suicide gene therapy system which was mediated by recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) in lens epithelial cells. Immunohistochemistry method was used to determine the distribution of connexin 43 (Cx43) protein in cultured rabbit lens epithelial cells and rabbit lens epithelial cells transfected by HSV-tk suicide gene. Cx43 protein was measured and analyzed in cultured rabbit lens epithelial cells and rabbit lens epithelial cells transfected by HSV-tk suicide gene that was induced by various DADS. Cell survival was determined by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide method. DADS increased the Cx43 protein expression in cultured rabbit lens epithelial cells and rabbit lens epithelial cells transfected by HSV-tk suicide gene, and especially in 50 μmol/L DADS. After combining with DADS, the bystander effect was significantly improved (P<0.05). DADS can elevate the expression of Cx43 protein and enhance the bystander effect of HSV-tk/GCV suicide gene therapy system.
Transient receptor potential (TRP) non-selective cation channels constitute a superfamily, which contains 28 different genes. In mammals, this superfamily is divided into six subfamilies based on differences in amino acid sequence homology between the different gene products. Proteins within a subfamily aggregate to form heteromeric or homomeric tetrameric configurations. These different groupings have very variable permeability ratios for calcium versus sodium ions. TRP expression is widely distributed in neuronal tissues, as well as a host of other tissues, including epithelial and endothelial cells. They are activated by environmental stresses that include tissue injury, changes in temperature, pH and osmolarity, as well as volatile chemicals, cytokines and plant compounds. Their activation induces, via intracellular calcium signalling, a host of responses, including stimulation of cell proliferation, migration, regulatory volume behaviour and the release of a host of cytokines. Their activation is greatly potentiated by phospholipase C (PLC) activation mediated by coupled GTP-binding proteins and tyrosine receptors. In addition to their importance in maintaining tissue homeostasis, some of these responses may involve various underlying diseases. Given the wealth of literature describing the multiple roles of TRP in physiology in a very wide range of different mammalian tissues, this review limits itself to the literature describing the multiple roles of TRP channels in different ocular tissues. Accordingly, their importance to the corneal, trabecular meshwork, lens, ciliary muscle, retinal, microglial and retinal pigment epithelial physiology and pathology is reviewed.
To evaluate the gene expression signature of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in relation to the gross morphology. Eggel's nodular type of HCC is morphologically subclassified into the single nodular (SN) type, the single nodular type with extranodular growth (SNEG), and the confluent multinodular (CM) type, but their biomolecular differences remain unclear. The clinicopathological characteristics and genome-wide gene expressions were analyzed in 275 patients with nodular-type HCC (124 SN-type, 91 SNEG-type, and 60 CM-type) who received curative hepatectomy. Significantly poor prognosis was recognized in CM types in overall survival (P = 0.0020) and recurrence-free survival (P = 0.0066). Analysis of the genome-wide expression patterns revealed significant difference of CM-type HCC from either SN- or SNEG-type HCC. In particular, a stem cell marker EpCAM was dominantly expressed in CM-type HCC. Immunohistochemical studies confirmed the specific expression of EpCAM in HCC cancer cells of CM type. In multivariate analysis, the gross morphology of CM type was significantly associated with EpCAM expression (P = 0.0092), α-fetoprotein (P = 0.0424), "lens culinaris agglutinin-reactive fraction of α-fetoprotein" level (P = 0.0288), and the portal vein invasion (P = 0.0150). Furthermore, EpCAM was predictive for poor prognosis in overall and recurrence-free survivals of patients with CM-type HCC (P = 0.0082 and P = 0.0043, respectively). Our studies suggest that the distinct signature of gene expression is closely related to morphological progression in HCC. Especially, EpCAM might play a critical role in the aggressiveness of CM-type HCC.
DNA methylation is one of the key mechanisms underlying the epigenetic regulation of gene expression. During DNA replication, the methylation pattern of the parent strand is maintained on the replicated strand through the action of Dnmt1 (DNA Methyltransferase 1). In mammals, Dnmt1 is recruited to hemimethylated replication foci by Uhrf1 (Ubiquitin-like, Containing PHD and RING Finger Domains 1). Here we show that Uhrf1 is required for DNA methylation in vivo during zebrafish embryogenesis. Due in part to the early embryonic lethality of Dnmt1 and Uhrf1 knockout mice, roles for these proteins during lens development have yet to be reported. We show that zebrafish mutants in uhrf1 and dnmt1 have defects in lens development and maintenance. uhrf1 and dnmt1 are expressed in the lens epithelium, and in the absence of Uhrf1 or of catalytically active Dnmt1, lens epithelial cells have altered gene expression and reduced proliferation in both mutant backgrounds. This is correlated with a wave of apoptosis in the epithelial layer, which is followed by apoptosis and unraveling of secondary lens fibers. Despite these disruptions in the lens fiber region, lens fibers express appropriate differentiation markers. The results of lens transplant experiments demonstrate that Uhrf1 and Dnmt1 functions are required lens-autonomously, but perhaps not cell-autonomously, during lens development in zebrafish. These data provide the first evidence that Uhrf1 and Dnmt1 function is required for vertebrate lens development and maintenance.
Studies have shown that epithelium-expressed antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), e.g., β-defensins, play a role in clearing bacteria from mouse corneas already infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Less is known about the role of AMPs in allowing the cornea to resist infection when healthy. We previously reported that contact lens exposure, a major cause of P. aeruginosa keratitis, can inhibit the upregulation of human β-defensin 2 (hBD-2) by corneal epithelial cells in response to P. aeruginosa antigens in vitro. Here, we studied the role of AMPs in maintaining the corneal epithelial barrier to P. aeruginosa penetration using both in vitro (human) and in vivo (mouse) experiments. Results showed that preexposing human corneal epithelial multilayers to bacterial antigens in a culture supernatant (known to upregulate AMP expression) reduced epithelial susceptibility to P. aeruginosa traversal up to 6-fold (P < 0.001). Accordingly, small interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown of any one of four AMPs expressed by human epithelia promoted P. aeruginosa traversal by more than 3-fold (P < 0.001). The combination knockdown of AMPs further enhanced susceptibility to bacterial traversal by ∼8-fold (P < 0.001). In vivo experiments showed that the loss of murine β-defensin 3 (mBD-3), a murine ortholog of hBD-2, enhanced corneal susceptibility to P. aeruginosa. The uninjured ocular surface of mBD-3(-/-) mice showed a reduced capacity to clear P. aeruginosa, and their corneal epithelia were more susceptible to bacterial colonization, even when inoculated ex vivo to exclude tear fluid effects. Together, these in vitro and in vivo data show functional roles for AMPs in normal corneal epithelial cell barrier function against P. aeruginosa.
Cryptochromes (Crys) are blue light receptors believed to have evolved from the DNA photolyase protein family, implying that light control and light protection share a common ancient origin. In this paper, we report the identification of five genes of the Cry/photolyase family (CPF) in two green algae of the Ostreococcus genus. Phylogenetic analyses were used to confidently assign three of these sequences to cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) photolyases, one of them to a DASH-type Cry, and a third CPF gene has high homology with the recently described diatom CPF1 that displays a bifunctional activity. Both purified OtCPF1 and OtCPF2 proteins show non-covalent binding to flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), and additionally to 5,10-methenyl-tetrahydrofolate (MTHF) for OtCPF2. Expression analyses revealed that all five CPF members of Ostreococcus tauri are regulated by light. Furthermore, we show that OtCPF1 and OtCPF2 display photolyase activity and that OtCPF1 is able to interact with the CLOCK:BMAL heterodimer, transcription factors regulating circadian clock function in other organisms. Finally, we provide evidence for the involvement of OtCPF1 in the maintenance of the Ostreococcus circadian clock. This work improves our understanding of the evolutionary transition between photolyases and Crys.
Lens epithelium-derived growth factor (LEDGF) fusion proteins can direct HIV-1 DNA integration to novel sites in the host genome. The C terminus of LEDGF contains an integrase binding domain (IBD), and the N terminus binds chromatin. LEDGF normally directs integrations to the bodies of expressed genes. Replacing the N terminus of LEDGF with chromatin binding domains (CBDs) from other proteins changes the specificity of HIV-1 DNA integration. We chose two well-characterized CBDs: the plant homeodomain (PHD) finger from ING2 and the chromodomain from heterochromatin binding protein 1alpha (HP1alpha). The ING2 PHD finger binds H3K4me3, a histone mark that is associated with the transcriptional start sites of expressed genes. The HP1alpha chromodomain binds H3K9me2,3, histone marks that are widely distributed throughout the genome. A fusion protein in which the ING2 PHD finger was linked to the LEDGF IBD directed integrations near the start sites of expressed genes. A similar fusion protein in which the HP1alpha chromodomain was linked to the LEDGF IBD directed integrations to sites that differed from both the PHD finger fusion-directed and LEDGF-directed integration sites. The ability to redirect HIV-1 DNA integration may help solve the problems associated with the activation of oncogenes when retroviruses are used in gene therapy.
Synthesis of the hydrogen uptake (Hup) system in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae requires the function of an 18-gene cluster (hupSLCDEFGHIJK-hypABFCDEX). Among them, the hupE gene encodes a protein showing six transmembrane domains for which a potential role as a nickel permease has been proposed. In this paper, we further characterize the nickel transport capacity of HupE and that of the translated product of hupE2, a hydrogenase-unlinked gene identified in the R. leguminosarum genome. HupE2 is a potential membrane protein that shows 48% amino acid sequence identity with HupE. Expression of both genes in the Escherichia coli nikABCDE mutant strain HYD723 restored hydrogenase activity and nickel transport. However, nickel transport assays revealed that HupE and HupE2 displayed different levels of nickel uptake. Site-directed mutagenesis of histidine residues in HupE revealed two motifs (HX(5)DH and FHGX[AV]HGXE) that are required for HupE functionality. An R. leguminosarum double mutant, SPF22A (hupE hupE2), exhibited reduced levels of hydrogenase activity in free-living cells, and this phenotype was complemented by nickel supplementation. Low levels of symbiotic hydrogenase activity were also observed in SPF22A bacteroid cells from lentil (Lens culinaris L.) root nodules but not in pea (Pisum sativum L.) bacteroids. Moreover, heterologous expression of the R. leguminosarum hup system in bacteroid cells of Rhizobium tropici and Mesorhizobium loti displayed reduced levels of hydrogen uptake in the absence of hupE. These data support the role of R. leguminosarum HupE as a nickel permease required for hydrogen uptake under both free-living and symbiotic conditions.
A simple and reproducible Agrobacterium-mediated transformation protocol for a recalcitrant legume plant, lentil (Lens culinaris M.) is reported. Application of wounding treatments and efficiencies of three Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains, EHA105, C58C1, and KYRT1 were compared for T-DNA delivery into lentil cotyledonary node tissues. KYRT1 was found to be on average 2.8-fold more efficient than both EHA105 and C58C1 for producing transient beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene (gus) expression on cotyledonary petioles. Wounding of the explants, use of an optimized transformation protocol with the application of acetosyringone and vacuum infiltration treatments in addition to the application of a gradually intensifying selection regime played significant roles in enhancing transformation frequency. Lentil explants were transformed by inoculation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain, KYRT1 harboring a binary vector pTJK136 that carried neomycin phosphotransferase gene (npt-II) and an intron containing gusA gene on its T-DNA region. GUS-positive shoots were micrografted on lentil rootstocks. Transgenic lentil plants were produced with an overall transformation frequency of 2.3%. The presence of the transgene in the lentil genome was confirmed by GUS assay, PCR, RT-PCR and Southern hybridization. The transgenic shoots grafted on rootstocks were successfully transferred to soil and grown to maturity in the greenhouse. GUS activity was detected in vegetative and reproductive organs of T(0), T(1), T(2) and T(3) plants. PCR assays of T(1), T(2) and T(3) progenies confirmed the stable transmission of the transgene to the next generations.
Antibody-producing Chinese-hamster ovary cells (CHO-DG44) were converted into cells producing antibodies with strongly enhanced ADCC (antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity) by knocking down FuT8 (alpha-1,6-fucosyltransferase or fucosyltransferase 8) via constitutive expression of shRNA (short-hairpin RNA) against FuT8. After the introduction of a FuT8 shRNA expression plasmid under the control of a U6 promoter, CHO-DG44 clones with less than 5% residual FuT8 mRNA expression were isolated by selection for neomycin resistance, followed by low affinity nerve growth factor receptor enrichment and selection for LCA [Lens culinaris (culinary lentil) agglutinin] resistance. The CHO-DG44 clones identified produced highly afucosylated anti-[IGF-1R (insulin-like-growth-factor-1 receptor)] antibodies (up to 88%) that exhibited considerably enhanced ADCC compared with anti-IGF-1R wild-type antibodies produced by parental CHO cells. At the same time, antibody productivity was not significantly decreased. Analysis of stability showed that the clones obtained may be suitable for up-scaling, since low residual levels of FuT8 mRNA and production of afucosylated antibodies were maintained for at least 4 weeks.
Plants have evolved annual and perennial life forms as alternative strategies to adapt reproduction and survival to environmental constraints. In isolated situations, such as islands, woody perennials have evolved repeatedly from annual ancestors. Although the molecular basis of the rapid evolution of insular woodiness is unknown, the molecular difference between perennials and annuals might be rather small, and a change between these life strategies might not require major genetic innovations. Developmental regulators can strongly affect evolutionary variation and genes involved in meristem transitions are good candidates for a switch in growth habit. We found that the MADS box proteins SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CONSTANS 1 (SOC1) and FRUITFULL (FUL) not only control flowering time, but also affect determinacy of all meristems. In addition, downregulation of both proteins established phenotypes common to the lifestyle of perennial plants, suggesting their involvement in the prevention of secondary growth and longevity in annual life forms.
The actin cytoskeleton responds quickly to diverse stimuli and plays numerous roles in cellular signalling, organelle motility and subcellular compartmentation during plant growth and development. Molecular and cell biological tools that can facilitate visualization of actin organization and dynamics in a minimally invasive manner are essential for understanding this fundamental component of the living cell. A novel, monomeric (m) Eos-fluorescent protein derived from the coral Lobophyllia hemprichii was assessed for its green to red photo-convertibility in plant cells by creating mEosFP-cytosolic. mEosFP was fused to the F-(filamentous)-Actin Binding Domain of the mammalian Talin gene to create mEosFP::FABDmTalin. Photo-conversion, visualization and colour quantification protocols were developed for EosFP targeted to the F-actin cytoskeleton. Rapid photo-conversion in the entire cell or in a region of interest was easily achieved upon illumination with an approximately 400 nm wavelength light beam using an epi-fluorescent microscope. Dual color imaging after photo-conversion was carried out using a confocal laser-scanning microscope. Time-lapse imaging revealed that although photo-conversion of single mEosFP molecules can be rapid in terms of live-cell imaging it involves a progressive enrichment of red fluorescent molecules over green species. The fluorescence of photo-converted cells thus progresses through intermediate shades ranging from green to red. The time taken for complete conversion to red fluorescence depends on protein expression level within a cell and the quality of the focusing lens used to deliver the illuminating beam. Three easily applicable methods for obtaining information on fluorescent intensity and colour are provided as a means of ensuring experimental repeatability and data quantification, when using mEosFP and similar photo-convertible proteins. The mEosFP::FABD-mTn probe retains all the imaging qualities associated with the well tested GFP::mTn probe while allowing for non-invasive, regional photo-conversion that allows colour based discrimination within a living cell. Whereas a number of precautions should be exercised in dealing with photo-convertible probes, mEosFP::FABD-mTn is a versatile live imaging tool for dissecting the organization and activity of the actin cytoskeleton in plants.
Metamorphosis, a critical stage in the development of toads and frogs, involves rapid levels of morphological change. In the current study, we have used microarray analysis to identify shifts in gene expression between tadpole and toadlet stages of the cane toad, Bufo (Chaunus) marinus. Here, we report on nine genes that show the greatest induction during metamorphosis; the gut-associated gastrokine and trefoil factor, blood components haemoglobins alpha/beta, apolipoprotein and serum albumin, a nasal gene olfactomedin, a lens gene gamma-crystallin, and a novel gene with low homology to frog harderin. We present both temporal and spatial expression patterns of these genes identified in developing and adult cane toads. This study extends our knowledge of the molecular basis of toad metamorphosis, and not only offers insights to the genes induced during the general remodelling that occurs but also reveals possible targets for control and manipulation of amphibian pest species, for example, the cane toad in Australia.
The legume host affects the expression of Rhizobium leguminosarum hydrogenase activity in root nodules. High levels of symbiotic hydrogenase activity were detected in R. leguminosarum bacteroids from different hosts, with the exception of lentil (Lens culinaris). Transcription analysis showed that the NifA-regulated R. leguminosarum hydrogenase structural gene promoter (P(1)) is poorly induced in lentil root nodules. Replacement of the P(1) promoter by the FnrN-dependent promoter of the fixN gene restored transcription of hup genes in lentil bacteroids, but not hydrogenase activity. In the P(fixN)-hupSL strain, additional copies of the hup gene cluster and nickel supplementation to lentil plants increased bacteroid hydrogenase activity. However, the level of activity in lentil still was significantly lower than in pea bacteroids, indicating that an additional factor is impairing hydrogenase expression inside lentil nodules. Immunological analysis revealed that lentil bacteroids contain reduced levels of both hydrogenase structural subunit HupL and nickel-binding protein HypB. Altogether, results indicate that hydrogenase expression is affected by the legume host at the level of both transcription of hydrogenase structural genes and biosynthesis or stability of nickel-related proteins HypB and HupL, and suggest the existence of a plant-dependent mechanism that affects hydrogenase activity during the symbiosis by limiting nickel availability to the bacteroid.
To use a glycemic method to screen hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) metastasis related aberrant 1-6 fucosylated glycoproteins, and to analyze the metastasis-related alterations of annexin II. 2-DE coupled with lectin affinity blot, lectin affinity precipitation followed by MALDI-TOF-MS/MS was established to screen glycoproteins related to HCC metastasis. Immunofluorescence analysis, Western blot and real-time PCR were performed on higher and lower metastatic HCC cell lines to detect the protein expression levels and mRNA levels of annexin II. The Lens culinaris agglutinin (LCA) affinity glycoprotein profiles from MHCC97-L and MHCC97-H cells were differentially displayed when compared with Hep3B. Annexin II was identified by MALDI-TOF-MS/MS and its increased core-fucosylation was associated with HCC metastasis and it was confirmed. In addition, we found that annexin II was distributed in the cytoplasm and it had higher protein and gene expressions in MHCC97-L and MHCC97-H cells than in Hep3B cells. Our results suggest that the increase of annexin II and its expression levels, and the increase of core-fucosylation might all be related to HCC metastatic ability.
Using microarray technology and a set of chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) unigenes, grasspea (Lathyrus sativus L.) expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and lentil (Lens culinaris Med.) resistance gene analogues, the ascochyta blight (Ascochyta rabiei (Pass.) L.) resistance response was studied in four chickpea genotypes, including resistant, moderately resistant, susceptible and wild relative (Cicer echinospermum L.) genotypes. The experimental system minimized environmental effects and was conducted in reference design, in which samples from mock-inoculated controls acted as reference against post-inoculation samples. Robust data quality was achieved through the use of three biological replicates (including a dye swap), the inclusion of negative controls and strict selection criteria for differentially expressed genes, including a fold change cut-off determined by self-self hybridizations, Student's t-test and multiple testing correction (P < 0.05). Microarray observations were also validated by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The time course expression patterns of 756 microarray features resulted in the differential expression of 97 genes in at least one genotype at one time point. k-means clustering grouped the genes into clusters of similar observations for each genotype, and comparisons between A. rabiei-resistant and A. rabiei-susceptible genotypes revealed potential gene 'signatures' predictive of effective A. rabiei resistance. These genes included several pathogenesis-related proteins, SNAKIN2 antimicrobial peptide, proline-rich protein, disease resistance response protein DRRG49-C, environmental stress-inducible protein, leucine-zipper protein, polymorphic antigen membrane protein, Ca-binding protein and several unknown proteins. The potential involvement of these genes and their pathways of induction are discussed. This study represents the first large-scale gene expression profiling in chickpea, and future work will focus on the functional validation of the genes of interest.
We have analyzed plastid proliferation in root cortical cells of Medicago truncatula colonized by arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi by concomitantly labeling fungal structures, root plastids, a protein involved in plastid division (FtsZ1) and a protein involved in the biosynthesis of AM-specific apocarotenoids. Antibodies directed against FtsZ1 have been generated after heterologous expression of the respective gene from M. truncatula and characterization of the gene product. Analysis of enzymatic activity and assembly experiments showed similar properties of this protein when compared with the bacterial proteins. Immunocytological experiments allowed two phases of fungal and plastid development to be clearly differentiated and plastid division to be monitored during these phases. In the early phase of arbuscule development, lens-shaped plastids, intermingled with the arbuscular branches, divide frequently. Arbuscule degradation, in contrast, is characterized by large, tubular plastids, decorated by a considerable number of FtsZ division rings.
Several methods have been described to enhance antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) using different host cells that produce antibody with reduced levels of fucose on their carbohydrates. We compared the suitability of these methods for the serum-free fed-batch production of antibody for clinical trials and commercial uses. Recombinant anti-human CD20 chimeric IgG1-producing clones were established from host-cells that have been shown to produce more than 90% fucose-negative antibody. The cell lines were a FUT8 (alpha-1,6-fucosyltransferase) knockout Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line, Ms704, and two Lens culinaris agglutinin (LCA)-resistant cell lines, one derived from a variant CHO line, Lec13 and the other from a rat hybridoma cell line, YB2/0. The amount of fucose-negative antibody produced by Lec13 and YB2/0 significantly decreased with the culture. The increase in fucosylation was due to remaining synthesis of GDP-fucose via de novo pathway for the CHO line and the elevation of FUT8 expression by the YB2/0 cells. In contrast, Ms704 cells stably produced fucose-negative antibody with a consistent carbohydrate structure until the end of the culture. The productivity of the Ms704 cells reached 1.76 g/L with a specific production rate (SPR) of 29 pg/cell/day for 17 days in serum-free fed-batch culture using a 1 L spinner bioreactor. Our results demonstrate that FUT8 knockout has the essential characteristics of host cells for robust manufacture of fucose-negative therapeutic antibodies with enhanced ADCC.
The effect of diets based on cooked beans or lentils on protein metabolism in intestines and muscles was studied in rats. The cooked seeds were used as the unique protein source in balanced diets (containing 229 and 190 g of crude protein per kg dry matter) fed to young growing rats for 20 days. Their effects were compared with those of the control casein diet in pair-fed rats. Protein synthesis rates in small and large intestines and in gastrocnemius and soleus muscles were determined in vivo, in a fed state, by the flooding dose method, using 13C-valine. In the small and large intestine tissues of the legume fed groups, protein, RNA relative masses (mg.100 g BM(-1)) and protein synthesis rates (FSR and ASR) were higher than in the control rats (p < 0.05). In gastrocnemius and soleus muscles,protein and RNA contents (in mg) and protein synthesis rates were significantly (p < 0.05) lower in the legume-fed groups than in the control rats. The chronic intake of cooked legumes increased protein synthesis rates in intestinal tissues and decreased them in muscles. This effect was greater for beans than for lentils in the large intestine and in gastrocnemius muscle.
In order to investigate the genetic structure of lentil Bowman-Birk inhibitors (BBIs), primers were designed on pea BBI sequences. The sequences obtained from lentil DNA, using these primers, indicate that lentil possesses at least two paralogous genes. Protein sequences translated in silico from lentil DNA sequences suggest that the two coded proteins are highly similar to Pisum trypsin inhibitor TI1 and TI6 BBIs, respectively. In fact, both are double-headed inhibitors, one class showing the presence of a trypsin- and a chymotrypsin-reactive site, the other showing two trypsin-inhibition sites, similar to pea TI1 and TI6, respectively. The same primers were used to amplify sequences from the DNA of other Lens species. The results strongly support that all species of Lens possess the same classes of BBI coding genes, orthologous to those identified in the cultivated lentil. Lens nigricans showed the most diverging sequences both at the nucleotide and the amino acid level. The similarity of the two gene classes identified in the genus Lens to those of Pisum and the observations that the patterns of expression of the Lens genes are equivalent to those of pea orthologous genes, possibly imply that BBIs in Lens are coded by gene classes with similar genome organization and function to those of pea. Finally, a phyletic analysis, based on the comparison of sequences obtained from other species belonging to the Vicieae tribe of the Fabaceae family, strongly suggests that all Vicieae could have a similar genome organization and function for BBI genes, and that this could be a general rule in all the Fabaceae family.
We explored the possibility of converting established antibody-producing cells to cells producing high antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) antibodies. The conversion was made by constitutive expression of small interfering RNA (siRNA) against alpha1,6 fucosyltransferase (FUT8). We found two effective siRNAs, which reduce FUT8 mRNA expression to 20% when introduced into Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)/DG44 cells. Selection for Lens culinaris agglutinin (LCA)-resistant clones after introduction of the FUT8 siRNA expression plasmids yields clones producing highly defucosylated (approximately 60%) antibody with over 100-fold higher ADCC compared to antibody produced by the parental cells (approximately 10% defucosylated). Moreover, the selected clones remain stable, producing defucosylated antibody even in serum-free fed-batch culture. Our results demonstrate that constitutive FUT8 siRNA expression can control the oligosaccharide structure of recombinant antibody produced by CHO cells to yield antibodies with dramatically enhanced ADCC.
The sea urchin embryo is a model for studying cellular interactions that occur in higher organisms because of its availability, transparency, and accessibility to molecular probes. In previous studies, we found that the mannose/glucose-binding lectin Lens culinaris agglutinin entered living sea urchin embryos, bound to specific cell types and caused exogastrulation, when the developing gut (archenteron) falls out of the embryo proper. We have proposed that the lectin bound to sugar-containing ligands, thus preventing attachment of the archenteron to the blastocoel roof, resulting in exogastrulation. Here, we have continued our study of cellular interactions in this model using Lytechinus pictus sea urchin embryos, and have found that inhibitors of glycoprotein/proteoglycan synthesis, tunicamycin and sodium selenate, and the specific glycosidases, beta-amylase, alpha-glucosidase, and alpha-mannosidase, all inhibit archenteron organization, elongation, and attachment to the blastocoel roof in viable swimming embryos. We also show that single cells obtained by disaggregation of 32-h-old sea urchin embryos bind to L. culinaris agglutinin- and concanavalin A-derivatized beads; the binding is blocked by alpha-methyl mannose, but not l-fucose. These cells also bind to beads derivatized with mannan. These results provide evidence for a role of carbohydrate-containing molecules in cellular interactions in sea urchin gastrulation. In a second set of experiments, we found that the supernatant obtained by disaggregation of 24-32-h-old L. pictus embryos in calcium- and magnesium-free sea water contains molecules that cause exogastrulation, archenteron disorganization, inhibition of archenteron elongation and inhibition of archenteron attachment to the blastocoel roof in viable swimming embryos. We propose that the supernatant contains ligands and/or receptors that mediate archenteron development and attachment to the blastocoel roof and are released when embryos are disaggregated into single cells. These studies may lead to a better understanding of the molecular basis of mechanisms that control cellular interactions during development.
The aim of this work was to test the hypothesis that the trophic effect of lentil feeding on large intestine results from a stimulation of protein synthesis and to determine whether it interferes with protein metabolism in other splanchnic or peripheral organs. Two groups of growing Sprague Dawley male rats were pair-fed iso-caloric iso-nitrogenous balanced diets containing either cooked lentils (Lens esculenta puyensis) or casein as unique protein source. Protein synthesis rates were measured in vivo, in large intestine, liver and gastrocnemius at the postprandial state. In large intestine, protein and ribonucleic acid contents were higher in the lentil-fed group than in the control group, and the amount of proteins synthesized was also higher (+57%). By contrast, liver protein and ribonucleic acid contents as well as protein synthesis rates were significantly lower in the lentil-fed group than in the control group. In the gastrocnemius muscle protein and ribonucleic acid contents were significantly lower and the amount of protein synthesized was also lower (-18%) in the lentil fed group than in the control group. This study suggests that stimulation of protein synthesis in the large intestine is compensated for by a decrease in liver and muscle.
In the lamprey, adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) and melanotropins (MSHs) are produced from two distinct precursors, proopiocortin (POC) and proopiomelanotropin (POM). Both POC and POM have been suggested to be glycoproteins. The present study aimed to demonstrate glycoconjugates in ACTH and MSH cells in the pituitary of adult sea lampreys (Petromyzon marinus) by means of a lectin histochemistry. A total of 19 kinds of lectins were tested. ACTH cells were distributed in both the rostral pars distalis and the proximal pars distalis, and were stained positively with N-acetylglucosamine binding lectins (i.e., succinylated wheat germ agglutinin), N-acetylgalactosamine binding lectins (i.e., soybean agglutinin), D-mannose binding lectins (i.e., Lens culinaris agglutinin), and D-galactose binding lectins (i.e., Erythrina cristagall lectin). MSH cells were distributed in the pars intermedia, and were stained with N-acetylgalactosamine binding lectins (i.e., Dolichos biflorus agglutinin), D-mannose binding lectin (Pisum sativum agglutinin) and D-galactose binding lectins (i.e., peanut agglutinin). These results suggested that ACTH and MSH cells produce different types of glycoconjugates which may be attributed to the difference in glycoconjugate moieties between the precursor proteins, POC and POM.
Recently we described the novel nodulin gene VfENOD18, whose corresponding transcripts were restricted to the nitrogen-fixing zone III of broad bean root nodules. To characterize VfENOD18 on the protein level, polyclonal antibodies were generated using the purified recombinant VfENOD18 protein produced in Escherichia coli by employing the pMAL-c expression system. These antibodies recognized immunoreactive proteins isolated from indeterminate nodules of different leguminous plants, but also from non-symbiotic tissues of Glycine max and from tissues of Arabidopsis thaliana and Zea mays. Using immunogold labelling the nodulin VfENOD18 was localized to the cytoplasm of infected cells in the nitrogen-fixing zone of broad bean nodules. Due to the homology of the VfENOD18 sequence to that of the ATP-binding protein MJ0577 from the hyperthermophile Methanococcus jannaschii the recombinant VfENOD18 protein was tested for ATP-binding. Using the biotin photoaffinity ATP analogue 8N3ATP[gamma]biotin it could be demonstrated that VfENOD18 is an ATP-binding protein. PCR experiments revealed that the amino acid sequences of the putative C-terminal ATP-binding sites of the VfENOD 18 homologues from Lens culinaris, Vicia hirsuta, Vicia sativa and Vicia villosa were conserved. We propose that VfENOD18 is a member of a novel family of ATP-binding proteins in plants.
The gram-negative soil bacteria Rhizobium spp. infect and establish a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis with legume crops which involves the mutual exchange of diffusable signal molecules. In this study, Rhizobium leguminosarum containing a nod-lacZ gene fusion was used to screen the most effective plant-to-bacteria signal molecules for pea and lentil and the induction conditions. Out of a number of signal compounds including apigenin, daidzein, genistein, hesperetin, kaempferol, luteolin, naringenin, and rutin, hesperetin and naringenin were found to be the most effective plant-to-bacteria signal molecules. The induction of nod genes was temperature-dependent, where nod gene induction was decreased with dropping incubation temperature. The combination of hesperetin at 7 microM and naringenin at 3 microM resulted in better induction of nod gene activities compared to either hesperetin or naringenin alone. Nodulation and plant dry matter accumulation of pea and lentil plants receiving preinduced R. leguminosarum were higher than those of plants receiving uninduced R. leguminosarum cells in controlled environment growth chamber conditions. Preinduced Rhizobium with hesperetin at a concentration of 10 microM increased nodule number on average by 60.5% and dry matter accumulation by 14% in field pea at 17 degrees C, while it was 32% and 9% at 24 degrees C, respectively. Similarly, averaged over two rhizobial strains, a 59% and 6% increase in nodule number and biomass production at 17 degrees C, and a 39% and 27% at 24 degrees C, were obtained from lentil inoculated with hesperetin-induced R. leguminosarum, respectively.
As part of a project on lentil molecular genetics, the sequence of the 18S-25S ribosomal RNA gene intergenic spacer (IGS) of Lens culinaris Medik. was determined. DNA was cloned after polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. The spacer of 2939 bp was composed of nonrepetitive sequences and four tandem arrays of repeated sequences, named A to D. C and D arrays were formed by the repetition of very short consensus sequences. Similarity was found between lentil and other legume species, in particular those of the Vicieae tribe. A transcription initiation site, putative sites of termination and processing, and promoter-enhancer sequences were detected by computer-aided searches. These sites resemble motifs conserved in the IGS sequences of other plant species. The conservation of motifs in the otherwise highly variable plant IGS sequences points to the relevance of these motifs as functional sequences.
The occurrence of two enzymes performing de-N-glycosylation of glycoproteins, namely, endo-N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (ENGase, EC 3.2.1.96) and peptide-N(4)-(N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminyl) asparagine amidase (PNGase, EC 3.5.1.52) was investigated in barley, cv. Plaisant (a winter six rowed variety). The dry grain showed both activities according to the HPLC detection of the hydrolysis of fluorescent resorufin-labelled substrates. However, PNGase activity was 16-fold higher than ENGase activity. During germination, both activities increased, PNGase by only 1.5-fold compared to nearly 4.8-fold for ENGase over the 4 d following imbibition. The localization of these activities within the grain showed that the major contribution of PNGase was due to the endosperm, typically representing over 90% of the whole grain activity. In contrast, ENGase activity was especially high in the embryo and, later, in the developing plantlet (10-fold higher than in the endosperm), particularly in the rootlets and scutellum. In developing spikes, PNGase activity was 5.6-fold higher than in the leaves, but similar ENGase activity was measured in both organs. During grain formation, PNGase activity followed dry matter increase together with endosperm development. In contrast, ENGase activity dropped by 66% at the beginning of grain filling before stabilizing until harvest. The occurrence of de-N-glycosylation-performing enzymes throughout the development of barley raises the question of the nature of their natural substrates. Moreover, the prevalence of one of these enzymes over the other depending on the organ and the developmental stage, could represent the first evidence of specific functions for each enzyme.
We have developed a heterologous expression system for transmembrane lens main intrinsic protein (MIP) in Nicotiana tabacum plant tissue. A native bovine MIP26 amplicon was subcloned into an expression cassette under the control of a constitutive Cauliflower Mosaic Virus promoter, also containing a neomycin phosphotransferase operon. This cassette was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens by triparental mating and used to infect plant tissue grown in culture. Recombinant plants were selected by their ability to grow and root on kanamycin-containing media. The presence of MIP in the plant tissues was confirmed by PCR, RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. A number of benefits of this system for the study of MIP will be discussed, and also its application as a tool for the study of heterologously expressed proteins in general.
We report here on a procedure to obtain large amounts of a chloroplast-localized heat shock protein (HSP21) with unknown structure and function, by using an Escherichia coli expression system for the pea (Pisum sativum) protein and a purification procedure based on perfusion ion-exchange chromatography. After initial precipitation steps, the sample was applied to cation- and anion-exchange on two columns connected in sequence, which allowed rapid purification of HSP21 in one equilibration and one elution step. The purified recombinant protein had an isoelectric point of 5. 0 and appeared in assembled, oligomeric form (approximately 200 kDa) composed of 21-kDa monomers, similar to the native HSP21 protein as detected by immunoblotting in plants after heat-stress treatment. This chloroplast-localized heat shock protein belongs to a special group of small heat shock proteins (sHSPs), which share an evolutionary conserved C-terminal domain with the vertebrate eye lens alpha-crystallin. The crystallins are known from both crystallographic and spectroscopic data to be all-beta proteins. In contrast, this paper presents circular dichroism spectroscopy data which shows that the purified recombinant HSP21 oligomer has a content of more than 30% alpha-helical secondary structure.
The 1-6 fucosylated -fetoprotein (AFP) present in serum of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has been employed for the differential clinical diagnosis of HCC from chronic liver diseases. The molecular mechanism by which this alteration occurs, however, remains largely unknown. To address this issue, we purified GDP-L-Fuc:N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminide 1-6 fucosyltransferase (1-6 FucT), an enzyme involved in the 1-6 fucosylation of N-glycans from porcine brain, as well as from a human gastric cancer cell line, and cloned their genes. In this study, levels of 1-6 FucT mRNA expression and the activity of this enzyme for 12 human HCC tissues were examined and compared with that in surrounding tissues and normal livers. The mean +/- SD for 1-6 FucT activity was 78 +/- 41 pmol/h/mg in normal control liver, 202 +/- 127 pmol/h/mg in adjacent uninvolved liver tissues (chronic hepatitis: 181 +/- 106 pmol/h/mg; liver cirrhosis: 233 +/- 164 pmol/h/mg), and 195 +/- 72 pmol/h/mg in HCC tissues. The mRNA expression of 1-6 FucT was also enhanced in proportion to enzymatic activity except for a few cases, suggesting that 1-6 FucT expression is increased in chronic liver diseases, especially liver cirrhosis. Transfection of 1-6 FucT gene into cultured rat hepatocytes markedly increased 1-6 FucT activity and led to an increase in lens culinaris agglutinin (LCA) binding proteins in both cell lysates and condition media. When the 1-6 FucT gene was transfected into a human HCC cell line, Hep3B, which originally showed low levels of 1-6 FucT expression, 1-6-fucosylated AFP was dramatically increased in the condition media. Collectively, these results suggest that the enhancement of 1-6 FucT expression increased the fucosylation of several proteins, including AFP, and that the level of 1-6-fucosylated AFP in patients with HCC was in part caused by up-regulation of the 1-6 FucT gene expression.
T cells respond to mitogenic or antigenic stimulation by proliferation and by turning on cytokine gene expression. Here we have analysed the kinetics and nature of cytokine production in human peripheral blood-derived T lymphoblasts stimulated with anti-CD3 antibodies or Lens culinaris lectin (LCL). T cells were purified from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and primarily activated with anti-CD3 antibodies and cultured in the presence of interleukin-2 (IL-2). Anti-CD3-restimulated T cells (mainly CD8+) produced IL-2, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and low levels of IL-4 and IL-10 transcripts and proteins. No IL-6 gene expression was observed. In LCL-stimulated cells the cytokine production pattern was very similar. Steady-state mRNA levels of IL-2, IL-10 and IFN-gamma peaked at 3 hr after anti-CD3 stimulation and declined rapidly thereafter. The kinetics of TNF-alpha mRNA expression was faster, being at its peak level 1 hr after stimulation. Anti-CD3-stimulated IL-2 gene expression was down-regulated by protein synthesis inhibitor, whereas IL-10, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha genes were readily induced independent of ongoing protein synthesis. T-cell receptor stimulation also induced a very rapid expression of c-jun, c-fos and NFATc1 (NFATc) genes, the gene products of which are involved in cytokine gene expression. In conclusion, the cytokines synthesized by IL-2-dependent T cells were predominantly IL-2, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha.
We have cloned a new member of the syntaxin family of proteins, designated human syntaxin 16 (hsyn16). The open reading frame encodes a polypeptide of 307 amino acids with potential coiled-coil domains and a carboxy-terminal hydrophobic tail, which is characteristic of other members of the syntaxin family. The encoded polypeptide bears sequence homology to known syntaxin molecules. Northern blot analysis revealed a single transcript that is fairly ubiquitous, being slightly more enriched in heart and pancreas. Indirect immunofluorescence localised myc-tagged hsyn16 (myc-hsyn16) to the Golgi apparatus, colocalizing well with lens culinaris agglutinin, an established Golgi marker, as well as with other Golgi SNAREs such as GS28 and syntaxin 5. Myc-hsyn16 is redistributed to the endoplasmic reticulum upon brefeldin A treatment, indicating that it is localised to the Golgi stack. The ubiquitous expression and Golgi localization of hsy16 suggest that it is involved in a vesicular transport step within the organelle.
The effect of ozone stress on polyamine metabolism and membrane lipid peroxidation in lentil seedlings through the amine oxidase and lipoxygenase activity and expression has been investigated. Ozone is shown to control the expression of these enzymes at the transcriptional level, down-regulating the amine oxidase gene and up-regulating the lipoxygenase gene. The decrease of amine oxidase activity correlated with the increase of putrescine concentration in the ozone-treated plantlets, whereas the increase of lipoxygenase activity was paralleled by enhanced membrane lipid peroxidation. Finally, polyamines are shown to inhibit lipoxygenase activity in lentils.
The effect of copper ions, the inorganic cofactor of amine oxidase (AO; EC 1.4.3.6), on the production of this enzyme in lentil (Lens culinaris) seedlings was studied. The addition of CuSO4 to the imbibition water during the germination of lentils increased the AO activity. However, the amounts of specific mRNA and protein were not affected by the presence of Cu2+. Furthermore, the addition of Cu2+ to homogenates of lentil seedlings grown in the absence of the metal substantially increased the AO activity. Therefore, it appears that exogenously added Cu2+ does not increase the production of AO in lentil seedlings which are still able to synthesize the copper-free enzyme. The addition of Cu2+ seems to reconstitute the enzymatically active holoprotein.
The Aquaporin family of water channels plays a fundamental role in transmembrane water movements in numerous plant and animal tissues. Since the molecular pathway by which water is secreted by salivary glands is unknown, a cDNA was isolated from rat submandibular gland by homology cloning. Similar to other Aquaporins, the salivary cDNA encodes a 265-residue polypeptide with six putative transmembrane domains separated by five connecting loops (A-E); the NH2- and COOH-terminal halves of the polypeptide are sequence-related, and each contains the motif Asn-Pro-Ala. A mercurial-inhibition site is present in extracellular loop E, and cytoplasmic loop D contains a cAMP-protein kinase phosphorylation consensus. In vitro translation yielded a 27-kDa polypeptide, and expression of the cRNA in Xenopus oocytes conferred a 20-fold increase in osmotic water permeability (Pf) which was reversibly inhibited by 1 mM HgCl2. Northern analysis demonstrated a 1.6-kilobase mRNA in submandibular, parotid, and sublingual salivary glands, lacrimal gland, eye, trachea, and lung. In situ hybridization revealed a strong hybridization over the corneal epithelium in eye and over the secretory lobules in salivary glands. These studies have identified a new mammalian member of the Aquaporin water channel family (gene symbol AQP5) which is implicated in the generation of saliva, tears, and pulmonary secretions.
Protoplasts were isolated from lentil (Lens culinaris) roots and their suitability as a transient expression system was investigated. After transfecting the protoplasts with the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene by either electroporation or polyethylene glycol (PEG), the specific activity of the reporter enzyme and the cell viability were determined. Electroporation was more effective than PEG treatment as transfection procedure and its efficiency was affected by the plasmid length. The feasibility of electro-transferring at the same time (coelectroporation) inhibitory anti-lipoxygenase monoclonal antibodies and the GUS-carrying plasmid pBI 221 was investigated as well. The amount of transferred immunoglobulins was quantitated by ELISA and the inhibitory ability of monoclonal antibodies on the intracellular target enzyme was determined. Evidence is presented for the successful coelectroporation of immunoglobulins and plasmid DNA into lentil protoplasts, the two types of macromolecules acting independently of each other in the recipient cells.
RNAse H (RNH1 protein) from the trypanosomatid Crithidia fasciculata has a functionally uncharacterized N-terminal domain dispensable for the RNAse H activity. Using computer methods for database search and multiple alignment, we show that the N-terminal domains of RNH1 and its homologue encoded by a cDNA from chicken lens are related to the conserved domain in caulimovirus ORF VI product that facilitates translation of polycistronic virus RNA in plant cells. We hypothesize that the N-terminal domain of eukaryotic RNAse H performs an as yet uncharacterized regulatory function, possibly in mRNA translation or turnover.
We have isolated three cDNA clones (TED2, TED3, and TED4) for genes expressed preferentially in cells that redifferentiate into tracheary elements from mesophyll cells isolated from leaves of Zinnia elegans. Sequence analyses of TED clones revealed that TED2 encodes a hydrophobic polypeptide with a significant similarity to the guinea pig lens-specific protein (zeta-crystallin) and that the deduced polypeptide of TED3 may be a novel cell wall protein. In situ hybridization of the TED probes with young Zinnia seedlings showed that expression of the three TED genes was restricted to vascular cells and regulated in a temporal and spatial manner during vascular development. TED3 transcripts were localized specifically to a few cells that are to differentiate or are differentiating into tracheary elements in all organs examined. TED4 transcripts were present mainly in the immature primary xylem both of cotyledons and of the boundary region between the root and hypocotyl and in the procambium of roots. In contrast, TED2 transcripts accumulated not only in immature primary xylem cells but also in immature phloem cells both in roots and in the boundary region between the root and hypocotyl. In addition, TED2 transcripts were expressed in the procambium cells of roots. In cotyledons, TED2 transcripts did not accumulate in xylem or phloem cells but only in two regions that might form a new vein just outside the phloem of the main leaf vein. Taken together, our findings indicate that TED2, TED3, and TED4 can be novel and efficient markers for development of the vascular system.
Soybean nodulin-26, a homologue of bovine eye lens major intrinsic protein (MIP-26), is an integral protein of the peribacteroid membrane in symbiotic root nodules. It comprises 271 amino acids with six potential transmembrane domains and lacks an amino-terminal signal sequence. A full-length nodulin-26 cDNA and its various deletion derivatives were transcribed in vitro after linking them to bacteriophage T3 promoter. In vitro translation of these transcripts in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate, in the presence or absence of canine pancreatic microsomal membranes, suggested that nodulin-26 is cotranslationally inserted into the microsomes without a cleavable signal peptide. The first two transmembrane domains (103 amino acids) of the protein are sufficient for microsomal membrane insertion. Membrane-translocated nodulin-26 binds to Con-A and is sensitive to endoglycosidase-H treatment, suggesting that it is glycosylated. Native nodulin-26 from root nodules retains its sugar moiety as it, too, binds to Con-A. Chemical cleavage mapping at cysteine residues, a trypsin protection assay, and the Con-A binding affinity of nodulin-26 suggested that both the NH2 and COOH termini of this protein are on the cytoplasmic surface of the peribacteroid membrane, while the glycosidic residue is on the surface of the membrane facing the bacteroids. In vitro phosphorylation experiments showed that nodulin-26 is a major phosphorylated protein in the peribacteroid membrane. This phosphorylation is mediated by a Ca(2+)-dependent, calmodulin-independent protein kinase located in the peribacteriod membrane. Externally supplied acid phosphatase dephosphorylates this protein, but alkaline phosphatase does not. Based on its homology with several eukaryotic and prokaryotic channel-type membrane proteins, nodulin-26 may form a channel translocating specific molecules to the bacteroids during endosymbiosis in legume plants.
Lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.) shoot apex, epicotyl, and root expiants were capable of expressing an intron-containing beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene after inoculation with the disarmed Agrobacterium strain GV2260:p35SGUSINT. Expression occurred at all wound sites on these expiants except at the end of the root expiants proximal to the cotyledonary node. GUS expression was detected using both histochemical and fluorescence assays and was stable for at least nine days after inoculation for epicotyl and root expiants, and for at least seventeen days for shoot apices. Non-inoculated controls, or controls inoculated with an Agrobacterium strain lacking the GUS gene, did not produce any background blue staining in the histochemical assay. Expression levels for all lentil expiants were substantially lower than for comparable flax (Linum usitatissimum L.) expiants which served as a positive control.
An expression system for cell lineage ablation in transgenic mice was constructed in which a modified form of the A subunit of ricin, a toxic lectin produced by the castor bean Ricinus communis, can be expressed under the direction of tissue-specific regulatory signals. A chimeric gene was formed by fusing the promoter and 5'-flanking sequences of the lens-specific mouse alpha A-crystallin gene with a modified ricin A cDNA, and this construction was integrated into the germ line of transgenic mice. These animals develop profound microphthalmia with severe developmental defects of the eye, relating primarily to the disorganization and death of cells forming the lens. In addition, this defect is associated with several abnormalities, including eye size, folding of the retina, and ectopic lens material in other regions of the eye. The phenotype of this engineered developmental mutation suggests that the normal development of alpha A-crystallin-producing lens fiber cells is essential for the proper growth, organization, and orientation of optic structures.
Advances in engineering of bioenergy crops were driven over the past years by adapting technological breakthroughs and accelerating conventional applications but also exposed intriguing challenges. New tools revealed rich interconnectivity in the exponentially growing and dynamic 'big' omics data' of metabolomes, transcriptomes, and genomes at previously inaccessible magnitude (global, cross-species, meta-) and resolution (single cell). Insights enabled fresh hypotheses and stimulated disciplines such as functional genomics with discovery of broad regulatory networks and their determinants, that is, DNA parts, including promoters, regulatory elements, and transcription factors. Their rational design, assembly into increasingly complex blueprints, and installation into diverse chassis is an existing frontier that may benefit from emerging technologies to address bottlenecks. Interweaving nature-inspired to fully synthetic parts has already allowed building of fine-tuned regulatory circuits, or new-to-nature metabolic routes insulated from the biological context of the chassis species. Similarly, developments and the evolving need for unifying principles in plant transformation and species-agnostic technologies highlight future opportunities for engineering the next generation of bioenergy plants.
This study identified and evaluated the expression of the AREB/ABF/ABI5 subfamily genes in chickpea and lentil, and revealed the major players involved in defense response to PEG-induced drought stress. Abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive element-binding protein/ABRE-binding factor/ABA-INSENSITIVE 5 (AREB/ABF/ABI5) subfamily proteins are major players in the ABA-mediated signaling pathway triggered by multiple stresses. AREB/ABF/ABI5 subfamily proteins belong to the basic-leucine zipper transcription factors that regulate the expression of several downstream defense genes to abiotic and biotic stresses. This protein set is highly targeted when trying to understand plant defense against abiotic stress or to improve plant tolerance to drought, cold, and salinity stresses. However, there is still very little information available about the genes of the AREB/ABF/ABI5 subfamily in chickpea and lentil. Herein, 8 chickpea and 9 lentil genes of the AREB/ABF/ABI5 subfamily were identified based on sequence analysis, and their expression levels were tested in a polyethylene glycol-induced drought experiment (20% PEG in Hoagland solution) using real-time RT-PCR and metadata analysis. Sequence analysis showed that members of this subfamily are highly conserved among themselves and with their orthologous genes in other closely related plant species. Overall, sequence data suggested that these genes may possess close or overlapping biological roles in regulating the transcription of abiotic stress-related defense genes. The meta-analysis from RNA-Seq datasets of unstressed plants showed that some members of this gene subfamily have a tissue-specific expression in both chickpea and lentil. Drought-contrasting chickpea and lentil cultivars showed that most AREB/ABF/ABI5 genes are modulated by PEG-induced drought. Furthermore, AREB/ABF/ABI5 genes had also a tendency for higher expression as cultivar tolerance increases. Therefore, this study identified the AREB/ABF/ABI5 subfamily genes in chickpea and lentil, and provides a comprehensive characterization of these members to support further focused research.
Soil water deficit (WD) significantly impacts plant survival and crop yields. Many gaps remain in our understanding of the synergistic coordination between molecular and ecophysiological responses delaying substantial drought-induced effects on plant growth. To investigate this synergism in tomato leaves, we combined molecular, ecophysiological, and anatomical methods to examine gene expression patterns and physio-anatomical characteristics during a progressing WD experiment. Four sampling points were selected for transcriptomic analysis based on the key ecophysiological responses of the tomato leaves: 4 and 5 days after WD (d-WD), corresponding to 10% and 90% decrease in leaf stomatal conductance; 8 d-WD, the leaf wilting point; and 10 d-WD, when air embolism blocks 12% of the leaf xylem water transport. At 4 d-WD, upregulated genes were mostly linked to ABA-independent responses, with larger-scale ABA-dependent responses occurring at 5 d-WD. At 8 d-WD, we observed an upregulation of heat shock transcription factors, and two days later (10 d-WD), we found a strong upregulation of oxidative stress transcription factors. Finally, we found that young leaves present a stronger dehydration tolerance than mature leaves at the same drought intensity level, presumably because young leaves upregulate genes related to increased callose deposition resulting in limiting water loss to the phloem, and related to increased cell rigidity by modifying cell wall structures. This combined dataset will serve as a framework for future studies that aim to obtain a more holistic WD plant response at the molecular, ecophysiological and anatomical level.
The challenge of mitigating the decline in both yield and fruit quality due to the intrusion of powdery mildew (PM) fungus looms as a pivotal concern in the domain of bitter melon cultivation. Yet, the intricate mechanisms that underlie resistance against this pathogen remain inscrutable for the vast majority of bitter melon variants. In this inquiry, we delve deeply into the intricate spectrum of physiological variations and transcriptomic fluctuations intrinsic to the PM-resistant strain identified as '04-17-4' (R), drawing a sharp contrast with the PM-susceptible counterpart, designated as '25-15' (S), throughout the encounter with the pathogenic agent
Reproductive disorders are a serious public health problem worldwide. Epidemiological data suggest that exposure to environmental pollutants is associated with the onset of reproductive disorders. However, the effects in reproductive health and exact mechanism of action of representative agricultural compounds prothioconazole (PTC) and its metabolite prothioconazole-desthio (dPTC) on mammals remain unclear. Here, we studied the physiological effects of the exposure to environmentally relevant doses of PTC and dPTC in mice reproductive systems. Combining
Polyphenol-rich Laird lentil hulls are a byproduct of lentil processing. In the present study, free and bound polyphenols in lentil hulls were analyzed with UHPLC-LTQ-OrbiTrap-MS
Market class, cooking time, quality, and milled grain yield are largely influenced by the seed size and shape of the lentil (
Lentil is an important pulse crop not only because of its high nutrient value but also because of its ecological advantage in a sustainable agricultural system. Our previous work showed that the cultivated lentil and wild lentil germplasm respond differently to light environments, especially to low R/FR-induced shade conditions. Little is known about how cultivated and wild lentils respond to shade at the level of gene expression and function. In this study, transcriptomic profiling of a cultivated lentil (Lupa,
β-Chitin produced by diatoms is expected to have significant economic and ecological value due to its structure, which consists of parallel chains of chitin, its properties and the high abundance of diatoms. Nevertheless, few studies have functionally characterised chitin-related genes in diatoms owing to the lack of omics-based information. In this study, we first compared the chitin content of three representative
Flowering time is important due to its roles in plant adaptation to different environments and subsequent formation of crop yield. Changes in light quality affect a range of developmental processes including flowering time, but little is known about light quality-induced flowering time control in lentil. This study aims to investigate the genetic basis for differences in flowering response to light quality in lentil. We explored variation in flowering time caused by changes in red/far-red-related light quality environments of a lentil interspecific recombinant inbred line (RIL) population developed from a cross between Lens culinaris cv. Lupa and L. orientalis accession BGE 016880. A genetic linkage map was constructed and then used for identifying quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with flowering time regulation under different light quality environments. Differential gene expression analysis through transcriptomic study and RT-qPCR were used to identify potential candidate genes. QTL mapping located 13 QTLs controlling flower time under different light quality environments, with phenotypic variance explained ranging from 1.7 to 62.9 %. Transcriptomic profiling and gene expression analysis for both parents of this interspecific RIL population identified flowering-related genes showing environment-specific differential expression (flowering DEGs). One of these, a member of the florigen gene family FTa1 (LcFTa1), was located close to three major QTLs. Furthermore, gene expression results suggested that two other florigen genes (LcFTb1 and LcFTb2), MADS-box transcription factors such as LcAGL6/13d, LcSVPb, LcSOC1b and LcFULb, as well as bHLH transcription factor LcPIF6 and Gibberellin 20 oxidase LcGA20oxC,G may also be involved in the light quality response. Our results show that a major component of flowering time sensitivity to light quality is tightly linked to LcFTa1 and associated with changes in its expression. This work provides a foundation for crop improvement of lentil with better adaptation to variable light environments.
Lentil cultivation could be challenged by combined heat and drought stress in semi-arid regions. We used RNA-seq approach to profile transcriptome changes of Lens culinaris exposed to individual and combined heat and drought stresses. It was determined that most of the differentially expressed genes observed in response to combined stress, could not be identified by analysis of transcriptome exposed to corresponding individual stresses. Interestingly, this study results revealed that the expression of ribosome generation and protein biosynthesis and starch degradation pathways related genes were uniquely up-regulated under the combined stress. Although multiple genes related to antioxidant activity were up-regulated in response to all stresses, variation in types and expression levels of these genes under the combined stress were higher than that of individual stresses. Using this comparative approach, for the first time, we reported up-regulation of several TF, CDPK, CYP, and antioxidant genes in response to combined stress in plants.
Cataracts account for over half of global blindness. Cataracts formations occur mainly due to aging and to the direct insults of oxidative stress and inflammation to the eye lens. The nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), a transcriptional factor for cell cytoprotection, is known as the master regulator of redox homeostasis. Nrf2 regulates nearly 600 genes involved in cellular protection against contributing factors of oxidative stress, including aging, disease, and inflammation. Nrf2 was reported to disrupt the oxidative stress that activates Nuclear factor-κB (NFκB) and proinflammatory cytokines. One of these cytokines is matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9), which participates in the decomposition of lens epithelial cells (LECs) extracellular matrix and has been correlated with cataract development. Thus, during inflammatory processes, MMP production may be attenuated by the Nrf2 pathway or by the Nrf2 inhibition of NFκB pathway activation. Moreover, plant-based polyphenols have garnered attention due to their presumed safety and efficacy, nutritional, and antioxidant effects. Polyphenol compounds can activate Nrf2 and inhibit MMP-9. Therefore, this review focuses on discussing Nrf2's role in oxidative stress and cataract formation, epigenetic effect in Nrf2 activity, and the association between Nrf2 and MMP-9 in cataract development. Moreover, we describe the protective role of flavonoids in cataract formation, targeting Nrf2 activation and MMP-9 synthesis inhibition as potential molecular targets in preventing cataracts.
To investigate the mechanism of the protective effects of blueberry anthocyanin extract (BAE) against oxidative stress and the roles of SIRT1 and NF-κB in the pathogenesis of diabetic cataracts. Male SD rats were randomly divided into a control group (group A) and an experimental group. The rats in the experimental group were intraperitoneally injected with streptozotocin (STZ) (60 mg/kg). Rats with blood glucose levels ≥16.7 mmol/L were considered to have DM. The rats in the experimental group were subdivided into group B (distilled water by oral gavage: 10 ml/kg/day), group C (5% blueberry anthocyanin extract by oral gavage: 10 ml/kg/day), and group D (15% blueberry anthocyanin extract by oral gavage: 10 ml/kg/day), with 15 rats in each group. At the end of 8 weeks, some biochemical parameters, including the expression of SIRT1 and NF-κB by qRT-PCR and western blotting and the activity of SOD and GSH, were measured in lens epithelial cells (LECs). The lenses of the rats in the control group appeared transparent during the entire 8-week period. Four weeks following STZ injection, cataracts gradually progressed in the experimental rats. SIRT1 expression was upregulated in groups B, C and D compared to the control group. However, the expression of NF-κB decreased in the experimental groups with increasing doses of BAE ( The results indicated that BAE significantly delayed the progression of diabetic cataracts in rats. These effects may be due to the dose-dependent antioxidant activity of BAE, which is mediated by enhanced SOD and GSH activities, SIRT1 expression and reduced NF-κB expression.
Gene regulatory regions contain short and degenerated DNA binding sites recognized by transcription factors (TFBS). When TFBS harbor SNPs, the DNA binding site may be affected, thereby altering the transcriptional regulation of the target genes. Such regulatory SNPs have been implicated as causal variants in Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) studies. In this study, we describe improved versions of the programs
BACKGROUND ß-glucogallin (GG) is one of the major plant polyphenolic antioxidants that have been associated with positive effects on human health and are crucial in the developing defense mechanism against the risk of diseases. However, reports on the protective mechanism of GG in lens epithelial cells are limited. MATERIAL AND METHODS ARPE-19 cells (a human retinal epithelial cell line) were exposed to methylglyoxal (MG) with or without GG to illuminate the protective role of GG in counteracting the cataract signaling. RESULTS Cells predisposed to MG demonstrated an increase in oxidative stress with augmented (P<0.01) inflammatory cytokines such as cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, chemokine receptor CXCR4, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) genes. In addition, the expression of aldose reductase (AR) was increased to 2-fold with accumulated sorbitol in MG exposed cells compared to control. On the other hand, cells exposed to MG evidenced a 3-fold increase in RAGE (receptor for advanced glycation end products) and a 2-fold increase in NF-kappaB (nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells) expression compared to control cells. Intriguingly, lens epithelial cells pre-treated with GG attenuated the reactive oxygen species levels with improved antioxidant enzymes. Simultaneously, the levels of AR and other inflammatory cytokines were observed in the levels closer to control cells in GG pre-treated cells. CONCLUSIONS Thus, the results of the present investigation show that GG may be a potential drug for the prevention of cataract development and progression.
Fermented lentil (FL) produced using L. plantarum and Savinase in alkaline conditions relieves metabolic alterations and oxidative stress in Zucker rats with metabolic syndrome. Here, we investigated the effect of up scaling the fermentation process on chemical composition and biological activity of FL. Moreover, we studied the molecular mechanisms by which FL exert a cytoprotective effect against oxidative stress in tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BHP)-challenged RAW264.7 macrophages. Up-scale production reduced overall biological effectiveness of FL with the exception of inhibition of intracellular ROS generation. FL prevented t-BHP-induced cytotoxicity and intracellular accumulation of reactive oxygen species through activation of catalase expression via SAPK/JNK phosphorylation and Nrf2 nuclear translocation. Different oligopeptides, phenolic acids and flavonols were identified as contributors of the observed effects. To the best of our knowledge, we reported for the first time that FL attenuates oxidative stress cellular damage via activation of SAPK/JNK phosphorylation, Nrf2 nuclear translocation and antioxidant enzymes expression.
The LAFL (i.e. LEC1, ABI3, FUS3, and LEC2) master transcriptional regulators interact to form different complexes that induce embryo development and maturation, and inhibit seed germination and vegetative growth in Arabidopsis. Orthologous genes involved in similar regulatory processes have been described in various angiosperms including important crop species. Consistent with a prominent role of the LAFL regulators in triggering and maintaining embryonic cell fate, their expression appears finely tuned in different tissues during seed development and tightly repressed in vegetative tissues by a surprisingly high number of genetic and epigenetic factors. Partial functional redundancies and intricate feedback regulations of the LAFL have hampered the elucidation of the underpinning molecular mechanisms. Nevertheless, genetic, genomic, cellular, molecular, and biochemical analyses implemented during the last years have greatly improved our knowledge of the LALF network. Here we summarize and discuss recent progress, together with current issues required to gain a comprehensive insight into the network, including the emerging function of LEC1 and possibly LEC2 as pioneer transcription factors.
Metabolic syndrome is a cluster of metabolic alterations characterized by central obesity, dyslipidemia, elevated plasma glucose, insulin resistance (IR) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). In this study, a combined intervention of a lentil protein hydrolysate and a mixed training protocol was assessed in an animal experimental model of genetic obesity and metabolic syndrome. Thirty-two male obese and 32 lean Zucker rats were divided into eight different experimental groups. Rats performed a mixed exercise protocol or had a sedentary lifestyle and were administered a lentil protein hydrolysate or placebo. Daily food intake, weekly body weight gain, plasma parameters of glucose and lipid metabolisms, body composition, hepatic weight, total fat content and fatty acid profile, as well as gene expression of lipogenic and lipolytic nuclear transcription factors and their target genes were measured. Obese Zucker rats exhibited higher body and liver weight and fat content than did their lean counterparts. Such alterations were related to modifications in aerobic capacity, plasma biochemical parameters of glucose and lipid metabolisms, hepatic fatty acid profile and gene expression of nuclear transcription factors SREBP1c, PPARα, LXR and associated lipogenic and lipolytic enzymes. The interventions tested did not affect body weight gain but improved aerobic capacity, reduced hepatomegalia and steatosis associated with NAFLD and relieved the adverse effects produced by this condition in glucose and lipid metabolisms through the modulation in the expression of different genes involved in diverse metabolic pathways.
Core fucosylation (CF), catalyzed by α-1,6 fucosyltransferase (Fut8) in mammals, plays an important role in pathological processes through posttranslational modification of key signaling receptor proteins, including transforming growth factor (TGF)-β receptors and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) receptors. However, its effect on peritoneal fibrosis is unknown. Here, we investigated its influence on epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of rat peritoneal mesothelial cells (PMCs) in vitro induced by a high-glucose (HG) culture solution. Rat PMCs were first cultured in a HG (2.5%) culture solution to observe the CF expression level (fluorescein isothiocyanate-lens culinaris agglutinin), we next established a knockdown model of rat PMCs in vitro with Fut8 small interfering RNA (siRNA) to observe whether inhibiting CF decreases the messenger RNA (mRNA) expression and protein expression of Fut8 and reverses EMT status. Rat PMCs were randomly divided into control group, mock group (transfected with scrambled siRNA), Fut8 siRNA group, HG group, HG + mock group, and HG + Fut8 siRNA group. Finally, we examined the activation of TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling and PDGF/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling to observe the influence of CF on them. CF, Fut8 mRNA, and protein expression were all significantly upregulated in HG- induced EMT model than those in the control rat PMCs (P < 0.05). Fut8 siRNA successfully blocked CF of TGF-β receptors and PDGF receptors and attenuated the EMT status (E-cadherin and α-SMA and phenotypic changes) in HG-induced rat PMCs. In TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling, Fut8 siRNA did not suppress the protein expression of TGF-β receptors and Smad2/3; however, it significantly suppressed the phosphorylation of Smad2/3 (relative expression folds of HG + Fut8 group vs. HG group: 7.6 ± 0.4 vs. 15.1 ± 0.6, respectively, P < 0.05). In PDGF/ERK signaling, Fut8 siRNA did not suppress the protein expression of PDGF receptors and ERK, but it significantly suppressed the phosphorylation of ERK (relative expression folds of HG + Fut8 group vs. HG group: 8.7 ± 0.9 vs. 15.6 ± 1.2, respectively, P < 0.05). Blocking CF inactivated the activities of TGF-β and PDGF signaling pathways, and subsequently blocked EMT. These results demonstrate that CF contributes to rat PMC EMT, and that blocking it attenuates EMT. CF regulation is a potential therapeutic target of peritoneal fibrosis.
Multiple genes and transcription factors are involved in the uptake and translocation of iron in plants from soil. The sequence information about iron uptake and translocation related genes is largely unknown in lentil (
Increasing yield and quality of seed storage compounds in a sustainable way is a key challenge for our societies. Genome-wide analyses conducted in both monocot and dicot angiosperms emphasized drastic transcriptional switches that occur during seed development. In Arabidopsis thaliana, a reference species, genetic and molecular analyses have demonstrated the key role of LAFL (LEC1, ABI3, FUS3, and LEC2) transcription factors (TFs), in controlling gene expression programs essential to accomplish seed maturation and the accumulation of storage compounds. Here, we summarize recent progress obtained in the characterization of these LAFL proteins, their regulation, partners and target genes. Moreover, we illustrate how these evolutionary conserved TFs can be used to engineer new crops with altered seed compositions and point out the current limitations. Last, we discuss about the interest of investigating further the environmental and epigenetic regulation of this network for the coming years.
Many plant genes are known to be involved in the development of cambium and wood, but how the expression and functional interaction of these genes determine the unique biology of wood remains largely unknown. We used the soc1ful loss of function mutant - the woodiest genotype known in the otherwise herbaceous model plant Arabidopsis - to investigate the expression and interactions of genes involved in secondary growth (wood formation). Detailed anatomical observations of the stem in combination with mRNA sequencing were used to assess transcriptome remodeling during xylogenesis in wild-type and woody soc1ful plants. To interpret the transcriptome changes, we constructed functional gene association networks of differentially expressed genes using the STRING database. This analysis revealed functionally enriched gene association hubs that are differentially expressed in herbaceous and woody tissues. In particular, we observed the differential expression of genes related to mechanical stress and jasmonate biosynthesis/signaling during wood formation in soc1ful plants that may be an effect of greater tension within woody tissues. Our results suggest that habit shifts from herbaceous to woody life forms observed in many angiosperm lineages could have evolved convergently by genetic changes that modulate the gene expression and interaction network, and thereby redeploy the conserved wood developmental program.
E-cadherin is often dysregulated in aggressive lung cancer, the mechanism of which cannot always be explained at the level of transcription. In 66 patients with lung cancer, immunohistochemical staining demonstrated that co-localization of E-cadherin and core fucose by Lens culinaris agglutinin was significantly less extensive in tumor than in nontumor tissue. Through gain and loss of fucosylation experiments in the giant lung carcinoma cell lines 95C and 95D, our results revealed that E-cadherin core fucosylation in 95C cells overexpressing α-1, 6-fucosyltransferase (Fut8) inhibited Fut8-95C cell migration, whereas knockdown of Fut8 in 95D cells enhanced migration of short-interfering RNA-targeting Fut8 (siFut8)-95D cells. The level of active Src (phosphorylated Src [Y416]) was significantly reduced in Fut8-95C cells, but elevated in siFut8-95D cells. In protein complexes immunoprecipitated from Fut8-95C cell lysates with anti-E-cadherin, less phosphorylated Src (Y416) and more β-catenin were observed, but immunoprecipitates from siFut8-95D cells, containing less core fucosylated E-cadherin, contained an elevated level of phospho-Src Y416. In Fut8-95C cells, phosphorylation of Akt (Y315, Y326) and GSK-3β (S9) was significantly reduced, but β-catenin (S37) phosphorylation was enhanced. Expression of N-cadherin and Snail1 was also reduced in Fut8-95C cells, but significantly increased in siFut8-95D cells. Intriguingly, when Src kinase activity was inhibited by treatment of cells with PP2 and SU6656, regulation of N-cadherin, Snail1 and cell migration by E-cadherin core fucosylation was abrogated in both Fut8-95C and siFut8-95D cells. Therefore, posttranslational modification of E-cadherin by less core fucosylation recruited and activated Src, and induced an epithelial-mesenchymal transition-like process in lung cancer cells.
Green tea extract (GTE) exerts antioxidative activities in ocular tissues of rats, but high levels of (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) can induce oxidative stress. In this study, pharmacokinetics, diurnal variation of oxidative status, antioxidation and transcription factors changes in ocular tissues of rats were investigated. Rats were fed intragastrically with GTE and catechin mixtures containing different amounts of EGCG. Plasma and various ocular tissues were taken for pharmacokinetic analysis, oxidation marker testings and gene expression assays. Effects of EGCG on ocular oxidation status were assessed by 8-isoprostane level and reduced/oxidized glutathione ratio. Oxidation, inflammation and apoptosis regulations in retina were evaluated by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Epicatechin, epigallocatechin and EGCG were dominant in various ocular tissues except vitreous humor, where gallocatechin was predominant. Diurnal variation of oxidative status was found in some compartments. GTE caused oxidative stress increase in the plasma, aqueous humor, vitreous humor, cornea and retina but decrease in the lens and choroid-sclera. Catechins mixture containing half dose of EGCG lowered 8-isoprostane in the retina and lens. GTE treatment induced superoxide dismutase 1 and glutathione peroxidase-3 expressions but suppressed catalase in the retina. Our results reveal pro-oxidation of GTE with high EGCG content to the ocular tissues. Optimal EGCG level is needed for protection.
Russeting, a commercially important defect in the exocarp of apple (Malus × domestica), is mainly characterized by the accumulation of suberin on the inner part of the cell wall of the outer epidermal cell layers. However, knowledge on the underlying genetic components triggering this trait remains sketchy. Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed on the exocarps of three russeted and three waxy apple varieties. This experimental design was chosen to lower the impact of genotype on the obtained results. Validation by qPCR was carried out on representative genes and additional varieties. Gene ontology enrichment revealed a repression of lignin and cuticle biosynthesis genes in russeted exocarps, concomitantly with an enhanced expression of suberin deposition, stress responsive, primary sensing, NAC and MYB-family transcription factors, and specific triterpene biosynthetic genes. Notably, a strong correlation (R(2) = 0.976) between the expression of a MYB93-like transcription factor and key suberin biosynthetic genes was found. Our results suggest that russeting is induced by a decreased expression of cuticle biosynthetic genes, leading to a stress response which not only affects suberin deposition, but also the entire structure of the cell wall. The large number of candidate genes identified in this study provides a solid foundation for further functional studies.
Brassinosteroid (BR) hormones are essential for plant growth and development. In Arabidopsis, the general understanding of BR signaling has been greatly attained by genetic and biochemical approaches that led to the identification of central BR signaling components, from the BRI1 receptor at the plasma membrane to downstream acting BR-regulated BRZ1 and BES1 transcription factors in the nuclei. Recently, an emerging trend is being established to further advance our understanding of the BR signaling pathway in plant development. Scientists have turned on the microscope lens turret to revisit the pleiotropic phenotypes of the BR mutants at a higher magnification, uncovering novel and specific cellular defects in the plant. In-depth phenotypic analysis in combination with the search for cell-specific signaling components that are responsible for those particular defects in the mutants are leading to: (1) definition of novel roles for BRs in vascular development, (2) unraveling BR function in cell division through quantitative analysis of Arabidopsis root growth, (3) establishment of a molecular connection between known patterning and BR-signaling components in organ boundary and stomata development and (4) development of novel strategies toward the identification of BR signaling components with spatiotemporal resolution. In this review, we highlight the importance of these emerging studies to investigate the spatiotemporal control of BR pathways in plant development.
Two-component signal transduction systems (TCS) are a main strategy used by bacteria to sense and adapt to changes in their environment. In the legume symbiont Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viciae VF39, mutation of chvG, a histidine kinase, caused a number of pleiotropic phenotypes. ChvG mutants are unable to grow on proline, glutamate, histidine, or arginine as the sole carbon source. The chvG mutant secreted smaller amounts of acidic and neutral surface polysaccharides and accumulated abnormally large amounts of poly-ß-hydroxybutyrate. Mutation of chvG caused symbiotic defects on peas, lentils, and vetch; nodules formed by the chvG mutant were small and white and contained only a few cells that had failed to differentiate into bacteroids. Mutation of chvG also destabilized the outer membrane of R. leguminosarum, resulting in increased sensitivity to membrane stressors. Constitutive expression of ropB, the outer membrane protein-encoding gene, restored membrane stability and rescued the sensitivity phenotypes described above. Similar phenotypes have been described for mutations in other ChvG-regulated genes encoding a conserved operon of unknown function and in the fabXL genes required for synthesis of the lipid A very-long-chain fatty acid, suggesting that ChvG is a key component of the envelope stress response in Rhizobium leguminosarum. Collectively, the results of this study demonstrate the important and unique role the ChvG/ChvI TCS plays in the physiology, metabolism, and symbiotic competency of R. leguminosarum.
Lectins are proteins that bind specifically to the carbohydrate moiety of glyco-conjugates. Japanese mistletoe lectin given intragastrically affected cytokine gene expression in the mouse intestine. This study examines the actions of Lens culinaris agglutinin (LCA) on the gene expression of gluconeogenic enzymes in the intestine. The results of quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction indicated that LCA caused an up-regulation of the gene expression of glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK). This change was correlated with an increase in the expression of two transcription factors, HNF1α and HNF4α. Experiments using human colonic cancer Caco-2 cells demonstrated that LCA up-regulated the gene expression of G6Pase and PEPCK whereas insulin had the opposite effect. In addition, the observed up-regulation of HNF4α gene expression in the duodenum raises the possibility that the lectin promotes the colorectal cancer. Lentil beans should be cooked well to avoid unfavourable effects of LCA.
DNA methylation is one of the key mechanisms underlying the epigenetic regulation of gene expression. During DNA replication, the methylation pattern of the parent strand is maintained on the replicated strand through the action of Dnmt1 (DNA Methyltransferase 1). In mammals, Dnmt1 is recruited to hemimethylated replication foci by Uhrf1 (Ubiquitin-like, Containing PHD and RING Finger Domains 1). Here we show that Uhrf1 is required for DNA methylation in vivo during zebrafish embryogenesis. Due in part to the early embryonic lethality of Dnmt1 and Uhrf1 knockout mice, roles for these proteins during lens development have yet to be reported. We show that zebrafish mutants in uhrf1 and dnmt1 have defects in lens development and maintenance. uhrf1 and dnmt1 are expressed in the lens epithelium, and in the absence of Uhrf1 or of catalytically active Dnmt1, lens epithelial cells have altered gene expression and reduced proliferation in both mutant backgrounds. This is correlated with a wave of apoptosis in the epithelial layer, which is followed by apoptosis and unraveling of secondary lens fibers. Despite these disruptions in the lens fiber region, lens fibers express appropriate differentiation markers. The results of lens transplant experiments demonstrate that Uhrf1 and Dnmt1 functions are required lens-autonomously, but perhaps not cell-autonomously, during lens development in zebrafish. These data provide the first evidence that Uhrf1 and Dnmt1 function is required for vertebrate lens development and maintenance.
To investigate effects of Valeriana amurensis Smir. ex Kom. on the inflammation reaction of cortical neurons and hippocampus neuronsin in Alzheimer's disease model rat's brain. The model of Alzheimer's disease was established with multiple factors and the expressions of iNOS, COX-2, IkappaB-alpha of cortical neurons and hippocampus neuronsin in Alzheimer's disease model rats' brain were observed by electron lens using immunohistochemistry method. The extracts of Valeriana amurensis could reduce the expressions of iNOS, COX-2 and IkappaB-alpha of cortical neurons and hippocampus neuronsin in a dose-dependent manner. The effects of 50% ethanol extracts of macroporous resin group were more significant than other groups. The 50% ethanol extract of macroporous resin group from Valeriana amurensis can improve the ability of spatial exploratory and effectively control the inflammation reaction, the mechanism maybe relevant to it's effect of decreasing the expressions of iNOS, COX-2 and IkappaB-alpha of cortical neurons and hippocampus neuronsin to inhibit the activity of glia cell and inflammatory injury of cortical neurons and hippocampus neuronsin in Alzheimer's disease model rat's brain.
Cryptochromes (Crys) are blue light receptors believed to have evolved from the DNA photolyase protein family, implying that light control and light protection share a common ancient origin. In this paper, we report the identification of five genes of the Cry/photolyase family (CPF) in two green algae of the Ostreococcus genus. Phylogenetic analyses were used to confidently assign three of these sequences to cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) photolyases, one of them to a DASH-type Cry, and a third CPF gene has high homology with the recently described diatom CPF1 that displays a bifunctional activity. Both purified OtCPF1 and OtCPF2 proteins show non-covalent binding to flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), and additionally to 5,10-methenyl-tetrahydrofolate (MTHF) for OtCPF2. Expression analyses revealed that all five CPF members of Ostreococcus tauri are regulated by light. Furthermore, we show that OtCPF1 and OtCPF2 display photolyase activity and that OtCPF1 is able to interact with the CLOCK:BMAL heterodimer, transcription factors regulating circadian clock function in other organisms. Finally, we provide evidence for the involvement of OtCPF1 in the maintenance of the Ostreococcus circadian clock. This work improves our understanding of the evolutionary transition between photolyases and Crys.
Plants have evolved annual and perennial life forms as alternative strategies to adapt reproduction and survival to environmental constraints. In isolated situations, such as islands, woody perennials have evolved repeatedly from annual ancestors. Although the molecular basis of the rapid evolution of insular woodiness is unknown, the molecular difference between perennials and annuals might be rather small, and a change between these life strategies might not require major genetic innovations. Developmental regulators can strongly affect evolutionary variation and genes involved in meristem transitions are good candidates for a switch in growth habit. We found that the MADS box proteins SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CONSTANS 1 (SOC1) and FRUITFULL (FUL) not only control flowering time, but also affect determinacy of all meristems. In addition, downregulation of both proteins established phenotypes common to the lifestyle of perennial plants, suggesting their involvement in the prevention of secondary growth and longevity in annual life forms.
Using microarray technology and a set of chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) unigenes, grasspea (Lathyrus sativus L.) expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and lentil (Lens culinaris Med.) resistance gene analogues, the ascochyta blight (Ascochyta rabiei (Pass.) L.) resistance response was studied in four chickpea genotypes, including resistant, moderately resistant, susceptible and wild relative (Cicer echinospermum L.) genotypes. The experimental system minimized environmental effects and was conducted in reference design, in which samples from mock-inoculated controls acted as reference against post-inoculation samples. Robust data quality was achieved through the use of three biological replicates (including a dye swap), the inclusion of negative controls and strict selection criteria for differentially expressed genes, including a fold change cut-off determined by self-self hybridizations, Student's t-test and multiple testing correction (P < 0.05). Microarray observations were also validated by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The time course expression patterns of 756 microarray features resulted in the differential expression of 97 genes in at least one genotype at one time point. k-means clustering grouped the genes into clusters of similar observations for each genotype, and comparisons between A. rabiei-resistant and A. rabiei-susceptible genotypes revealed potential gene 'signatures' predictive of effective A. rabiei resistance. These genes included several pathogenesis-related proteins, SNAKIN2 antimicrobial peptide, proline-rich protein, disease resistance response protein DRRG49-C, environmental stress-inducible protein, leucine-zipper protein, polymorphic antigen membrane protein, Ca-binding protein and several unknown proteins. The potential involvement of these genes and their pathways of induction are discussed. This study represents the first large-scale gene expression profiling in chickpea, and future work will focus on the functional validation of the genes of interest.
Lectins are proteins and glycoproteins of non-immune origin which bind specifically to carbohydrate residues, agglutinate cells and/or precipitate complex carbohydrates. Lectin-binding patterns in normal, hyperplastic and neoplastic endometria were studied using four biotinylated lectins (Con A, LCA, e-PHA, l-PHA) and the avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique. Canavalia ensiformis agglutinin (ConA) and Lens culinaris agglutinin (LCA) reacted strongly with the luminal borders and the cytoplasm of epithelial cells but, whilst in normal and benign endometrial tissues the cytoplasmic staining was confined to the apical and the basal aspect of the cells, in endometrial carcinomas and in some atypical hyperplasias lectin binding also occurred in the lateral cytoplasm (Con-A-lat), although in differing proportions of cells. Interestingly, extensive Con-A-lat in the tumour cells was much more frequent in non-endometrioid carcinomas (P<0.05) and was significantly associated with poor histological differentiation (P<0.0001), low oestrogen and progesterone receptor content (P<0.01 and P=0.0001, respectively) and an unfavourable long-term survival (P<0.05). With Phaseolus vulgaris erythroagglutinin (e-PHA) and leucoagglutinin (l-PHA) a linear, rather inconsistent, staining at the level of the basement membranes was observed in the glands: this, also noted with LCA, appeared intact in normal and hyperplastic glands without cytological atypia, and fragmented or absent in malignant glandular structures and in most hyperplastic glands showing cytological atypia. It is concluded that changes in the distribution of lectin-binding molecules in the endometrial cells are associated with the malignant state, whilst the extent of Con-A-lat reflects the biological behaviour of the tumours.
T cells respond to mitogenic or antigenic stimulation by proliferation and by turning on cytokine gene expression. Here we have analysed the kinetics and nature of cytokine production in human peripheral blood-derived T lymphoblasts stimulated with anti-CD3 antibodies or Lens culinaris lectin (LCL). T cells were purified from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and primarily activated with anti-CD3 antibodies and cultured in the presence of interleukin-2 (IL-2). Anti-CD3-restimulated T cells (mainly CD8+) produced IL-2, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and low levels of IL-4 and IL-10 transcripts and proteins. No IL-6 gene expression was observed. In LCL-stimulated cells the cytokine production pattern was very similar. Steady-state mRNA levels of IL-2, IL-10 and IFN-gamma peaked at 3 hr after anti-CD3 stimulation and declined rapidly thereafter. The kinetics of TNF-alpha mRNA expression was faster, being at its peak level 1 hr after stimulation. Anti-CD3-stimulated IL-2 gene expression was down-regulated by protein synthesis inhibitor, whereas IL-10, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha genes were readily induced independent of ongoing protein synthesis. T-cell receptor stimulation also induced a very rapid expression of c-jun, c-fos and NFATc1 (NFATc) genes, the gene products of which are involved in cytokine gene expression. In conclusion, the cytokines synthesized by IL-2-dependent T cells were predominantly IL-2, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha.
RNAse H (RNH1 protein) from the trypanosomatid Crithidia fasciculata has a functionally uncharacterized N-terminal domain dispensable for the RNAse H activity. Using computer methods for database search and multiple alignment, we show that the N-terminal domains of RNH1 and its homologue encoded by a cDNA from chicken lens are related to the conserved domain in caulimovirus ORF VI product that facilitates translation of polycistronic virus RNA in plant cells. We hypothesize that the N-terminal domain of eukaryotic RNAse H performs an as yet uncharacterized regulatory function, possibly in mRNA translation or turnover.
We have isolated three cDNA clones (TED2, TED3, and TED4) for genes expressed preferentially in cells that redifferentiate into tracheary elements from mesophyll cells isolated from leaves of Zinnia elegans. Sequence analyses of TED clones revealed that TED2 encodes a hydrophobic polypeptide with a significant similarity to the guinea pig lens-specific protein (zeta-crystallin) and that the deduced polypeptide of TED3 may be a novel cell wall protein. In situ hybridization of the TED probes with young Zinnia seedlings showed that expression of the three TED genes was restricted to vascular cells and regulated in a temporal and spatial manner during vascular development. TED3 transcripts were localized specifically to a few cells that are to differentiate or are differentiating into tracheary elements in all organs examined. TED4 transcripts were present mainly in the immature primary xylem both of cotyledons and of the boundary region between the root and hypocotyl and in the procambium of roots. In contrast, TED2 transcripts accumulated not only in immature primary xylem cells but also in immature phloem cells both in roots and in the boundary region between the root and hypocotyl. In addition, TED2 transcripts were expressed in the procambium cells of roots. In cotyledons, TED2 transcripts did not accumulate in xylem or phloem cells but only in two regions that might form a new vein just outside the phloem of the main leaf vein. Taken together, our findings indicate that TED2, TED3, and TED4 can be novel and efficient markers for development of the vascular system.
Aphids have intricate interactions with their host plants, but the molecular mechanisms behind these interactions remain largely unknown. The pea aphid
Pea (Pisum sativum L.) is a major legume crop frequently infested by various parasites, including the pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum Harris), which takes nutrients from its host and transmits phytopathogenic viruses. This aphid species comprises several biotypes, each one capable of feeding and reproducing on a limited range of specific legume species. However, little is known about the transcriptional response of the plants to different aphid biotypes. To investigate pea defense mechanisms against the pea-adapted and pea non-adapted A. pisum biotypes, we analyzed the transcriptional responses by mRNA sequencing of six pea genotypes with contrasting resistance levels and different haplotypes at the ApRVII locus. This locus confers partial resistance to the pea-adapted and non-adapted A. pisum biotypes. Transcriptomic analyses of pea genotypes with and without aphid infestation revealed 9,217 differentially expressed genes in pea genotypes infested with the pea-adapted aphids, while fewer genes, 1,561 genes total, were expressed in response to the pea non-adapted aphids. Both aphid biotypes activated immune responses and the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, including flavonoids. However, the pea-adapted biotype appeared to suppress multiple pathways associated with photosynthesis, cell wall biosynthesis, fatty acid metabolism, and other growth-related processes. Candidate genes potentially involved in aphid resistance were identified both within and outside of the ApRVII locus. These findings provide insights into pea resistance mechanisms against both pea-adapted and pea non-adapted A. pisum biotypes, as well as the ability of the adapted biotype to modulate pea defenses leading to host susceptibility, and pave the way for follow-up studies, including metabolomic analyses.
Apyrases (NTPDases) regulate growth and development in multiple eukaryotic organisms and function in multiple sub-cellular locales. An earlier report showed that the ectopic expression of psNTP9 (PS), a chromatin-associated pea (
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major limiting factor leading to crop yield reduction in acidic soils. The pectic polysaccharides, key components of plant cell walls, are considered the primary binding site for Al ions. Oligogalacturonide (OGA), the oligomers of alpha-1,4-linked galacturonosyl residues originating from the degradation of cell wall pectin (homogalacturonan), are able to elicit defense responses and protect plants against biotic stress, such as pathogen infections. However, the involvement of OGA in the plant's response to abiotic stress remains to be elucidated. In this work, we analysed the effects of Al treatment on the endogenous OGA content in pea root tips, as well as the effects of OGA pretreatment on pea root elongation, Al content, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) metabolism, with a working hypothesis being that OGA is causally involved in plant responses to Al toxicity. Hydroponically grown pea (Pisum sativum) plants were used to explore the biological functions of OGA in response to Al toxicity. Our data showed that Al treatment significantly induced the accumulation of endogenous OGA in root tips, primarily in the form of short-chain OGA. Pretreatment with exogenous OGA for 12 h notably improved pea tolerance to Al toxicity, including mitigating Al-induced suppression of root elongation growth and attenuating Al toxicity effects on the root system. OGA also enhanced Al tolerance by regulating redox homeostasis in root tips, reducing Al toxicity-induced accumulation of ROS and by transcriptional upregulation of antioxidant enzyme activities. Overall, this research is the first to demonstrate the role of OGA in plant responses to Al toxicity, offering novel theoretical foundations for understanding plant adaptation to acidic soil conditions.
Salt stress severely restricts plant growth and productivity. TCP genes, which are plant-specific transcription factors, play a crucial role in the stress response. However, their functions in pea (
The evolution of host-associated sympatric populations in phytophagous insects (so called "host races") connects adaptive divergence to barriers to gene flow. Pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum) host races specialise on legume species, and because host plant choice leads to assortative mating, the genetic basis of host plant acceptance is key to understanding speciation. Aphids use smell and taste in their host plant selection. While chemosensory genes frequently emerge as "outliers" in genome scans, their link to plant acceptance behaviour remains unclear. We examined the genetic basis of host-associated phenotypes using an F2 cross between two pea aphid host-associated races (specialised on alfalfa-Medicago sativa- and pea-Pisum sativum), assaying behaviour on both host plants and conducting QTL and regional heritability analyses based on a high-resolution linkage map. We identified five regions of moderate effect associated with acceptance of alfalfa, two with pea acceptance and two with survival on alfalfa. Two QTLs, one for alfalfa and one for pea acceptance, are located within a large rearranged region on chromosome 1, while other QTLs linked to alfalfa acceptance and survival are in the same region on chromosome 3-linking host plant choice to fitness. These findings highlight the polygenic basis of acceptance behaviour and the role of gene clustering and chromosomal rearrangements in promoting coupling among barrier loci. We identified 60 chemosensory genes within regions connected to acceptance, 24 of which were divergent among pea aphid races in previous genome scan or gene expression analyses. Evidence linking these genes to acceptance phenotypes supports their role in determining host plant specificity and as barrier loci contributing to pea aphid speciation.
Like many gram-negative phytopathogenic bacteria, Ralstonia solanacearum uses a type III secretion system to deliver into host cells a cocktail of effector proteins that can interfere with plant defenses and promote infection. One of these effectors, the nuclear-targeted PopP2 acetyltransferase, was reported to inhibit many defensive WRKY transcription factors through acetylation. To gain a better understanding of the mechanisms by which PopP2 might exert its virulence functions, we searched for other PopP2-interacting partners. Here we report the identification of the Arabidopsis thaliana AT-Rich Interaction Domain protein 3 (ARID3) and its close homologs, ARID2 and ARID4, as additional targets of PopP2. These ARID proteins are core components of the chromatin remodeling PEAT complexes that regulate gene expression through histone (de)acetylation and deubiquitination. In yeast, PopP2 binds the conserved C-terminal part of ARID2/3/4, which contains an α-crystallin domain putatively involved in their homo-oligomerization. ARID2/3/4 behave as substrates of PopP2 acetyltransferase activity, which causes the acetylation of several lysine residues conserved between these three proteins and located near their α-crystallin domain. Interestingly, while PopP2 negatively affects ARID3 and ARID4 self-interactions in planta, it promotes the interaction of ARID3 and ARID4 with PWWP1, another component of PEAT complexes, with which PopP2 can also interact. This study also reveals that disruption of ARID2/3/4 results in reduced growth of R. solanacearum. Overall, our data are consistent with a model in which PopP2 targets several components of PEAT complexes to interfere with their epigenetic regulatory functions and promote Ralstonia infection in Arabidopsis.
Researching heavy metal stress in plants is of paramount importance due to the increasing prevalence of heavy metal contamination in the environment, which poses significant risks to both plant, animal, and human health. Limited data are available on heavy metal stress-related gene responses to pollutants such as nickel sulphate and lead acetate in forage peas (
Resistant starch (RS) has gained attention for its potential in managing metabolic disorders. This study aimed to compare the supramolecular structure and anti-hyperlipidemia effects of RS isolated from native pea starch (NP-RS) and autoclaved pea starch (AP-RS) in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese mice. The structural characteristics of NP-RS and AP-RS were analyzed, and their impacts on obesity-related conditions, gene expression, and gut microbiota were evaluated. The crystalline polymorph of AP-RS shifted from a C-type to a B-type, with significantly higher long- and short-range crystallinity and double helix levels compared to NP-RS, as determined by X-ray diffraction and solid-state carbon-13 nuclear magnetic resonance ( The resistant characteristics of AP-RS, marked by increased crystallinity and a higher content of double helices, exhibit greater stability. This stability likely leads to differences in accessibility and fermentability between NP-RS and AP-RS substrates in vivo across various intestinal segments, resulting in different physiological responses in obese mice. These findings highlight the potential for designing novel RS-based supplements with tailored metabolic effects to promote health benefits. © 2025 Society of Chemical Industry.
The combination of mutation-based genetics and functional genomics has allowed a detailed dissection of the nodulation-induction and autoregulation of nodulation (AON) pathways of soybean. Applicable to all legumes, nodulation is induced by Rhizobium/Bradyrhizobium-produced lipopolysaccharides (Nod factors), perceived by Nod factor receptors (NFR1/NFR5 dimers), leading to cortical and pericycle cell divisions. These induce the production of CLAVATA3-like (CLE) peptides, which travel in the xylem to the shoot, where they are perceived by a receptor complex including a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) receptor kinase, encoded by GmNARK, LjHAR1, MtSUNN and closely related receptors in other legumes like Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean), Pisum sativum (pea), and Glycine soja. The activated receptor complex negatively regulates by phosphorylation of the constitutive synthesis of miR2111 in the shoot. This is normally is translocated via the phloem to the entire plant body, initiating suppression of a root-expressed Kelch repeat-containing F-box protein "Too Much Love (TML)," which in turn suppresses the nodule initiation cascade. Nodulation is therefore permitted during a developmental window between the induction and progress of the nodulation/cell division/infection cascade during the first few days after inoculation and the functional "readiness" of the AON cascade, delayed by the root-shoot-root loop. Loss-of-function mutations in GmNARK and LjTML result in excessive nodulation (supernodulation/hypernodulation/supernummary nodulation) as well as localized tolerance to externally applied nitrate. Recent analyses have indicated an interaction of the AON with lateral root formation as well as with the autoregulation of mycorrhization (AOM). Further details of the parallel functions of key points in this regulatory loop remain to be elucidated.
High soil pH induces the upregulation of genes involved in oxidative stress and nutrient transport, while the enrichment of beneficial microbes (Variovorax, Chaetomium, and Pseudomonas) highlights their potential role in promoting stress adaptation. High soil pH severely impacts plant growth and productivity, yet the transcriptomic changes and microbial dynamics underlying stress adaptation in garden pea (Pisum sativum ssp. hortense) remain unclear. This study demonstrates that high soil pH leads to stunted growth, reduced biomass, impaired photosynthesis, and nutrient status in garden pea. Further, disruption in key nitrogen-fixing bacteria (Rhizobium indicum, R. leguminosarum, and R. redzepovicii), along with the downregulation of NifA and NifD genes and upregulation of NifH in nodules highlights the critical role of micronutrient balance in legume-microbe symbiosis and a compensatory response to maintain nitrogen status. RNA seq analysis revealed extensive transcriptional reprogramming in roots, characterized by the upregulation of oxidative stress response genes (e.g., oxidoreductase and glutathione transferase activities, metal ion transporters) and the downregulation of genes related to ammonia-lyase activity and ion binding, reflecting broader disruptions in nutrient homeostasis. KEGG pathway analysis identified enrichment of MAPK signaling pathway, likely interacting with other pathways associated with stress tolerance, metabolic adjustment, and structural reorganization as part of adaptive responses to high pH. Root microbiome analysis showed significant enrichment of Variovorax, Shinella, and Chaetomium, suggesting host-driven recruitment under high pH stress. Stable genera, such as Pseudomonas, Novosphingobium, Mycobacterium, Herbaspirillum, and Paecilomyces, displayed resilience to stress conditions, potentially forming core microbiome components for adaptation to high pH. In a targeted study, inoculation of plants with an enriched microbiome, particularly C. globosum, under high pH conditions improved growth parameters and increased the abundance of Stenotrophomonas and Pseudomonas in the roots. It suggests that these bacterial genera may act as helper microbes to C. globosum, collectively promoting stress resilience in pea plants suffering from high pH. These findings provide a foundation for microbiome-aided breeding programs and the development of microbial consortia to enhance the adaptation of pea plants to high pH conditions.
The increased frequency of extreme weather events related to climate change, including the occurrence of extreme temperatures, severely affects crop yields, impairing global food security. Heat stress resulting from temperatures above 30 °C is associated with poor germination performance and stand establishment. The combination of climate-resilient crop genotypes and tailored seed priming treatments might represent a reliable strategy to overcome such drawbacks. This work explores the potential of hydropriming as a tool to mitigate the heat-stress-mediated impact on germination performance in orphan legumes. For each tested species ( Phenotyping at the germination and seedling development stage highlighted the accession-specific beneficial impact of hydropriming under heat stress conditions. In
Although the pod color was one of the seven characteristics Mendel studied in peas, the mechanism of color variation in peas with purple pods has not been reported. This study systemically analyzed the difference between two pea accessions with green pods (GPs) and purple pods (PPs) at two pod developmental stages from the metabolome and transcriptome levels, aiming to preliminarily explore the mechanism and of color variation in PPs and screen out the candidate genes. A total of 180 differentially accumulated metabolites (DAMs) belonged to seven flavonoid subgroups and 23 flavonoid-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified from the analysis of the KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) pathway enrichment, respectively. Among the 180 flavonoid metabolites, ten anthocyanin compounds, which were the principal pigments in PPs and might be the major reason for the purple color formation, were significantly up-accumulated in both of the different pod development stages of PPs. A transcriptome analysis revealed that eight genes encoding enzymes (C4H, CHI, F3H, F3'H, F3'5'H, DFR, ANS, and FLS) involved in the flavonoid synthesis pathway were significantly upregulated in PPs and finally resulted in the significant accumulation of flavonoid and anthocyanin metabolites. The joint analysis of two omics and a weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) also screened out that the WD-40 protein-encoding gene, one WRKY and three MYB transcription factor genes exhibited significant upregulation in PPs, and highly correlated with several structural genes in flavonoid synthesis pathways, indicating that these genes are involved in the regulation of pod color formation in PPs. Overall, the results of this study first explored the mechanism underlying the purple color variation between PPs and GPs, and then preliminarily screened out some candidate genes responsible for the pod color formation in PPs.
Peas (Pisum sativum) are vital for human nutrition and have significantly contributed to the understanding of Mendelian inheritance laws. In this study, we performed transcriptome sequencing on 11 distinct pea tissues, offering an extensive gene expression dataset. This study not only provides valuable insights into the gene expression patterns across various pea tissues but also lays the foundation for future research aimed at understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying pea growth, development, and response to environmental stimuli. In this study, we conducted transcriptome sequencing on tissue samples from 11 distinct pea plants, each with three biological replicates. This approach yielded a comprehensive RNA-seq dataset, abundant in transcriptomic information. Through principal component analysis (PCA) and gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis, we identified significant variations in gene expression across different samples. This valuable transcriptomic resource enhances our understanding of gene expression in diverse pea tissues and provides new strategies, along with potential candidate genes, for the genetic improvement of peas.
Rhizobia and legumes form a symbiotic relationship resulting in the formation of root structures known as nodules, where bacteria fix nitrogen. Legumes release flavonoids that are detected by the rhizobial nodulation (Nod) protein NodD, initiating the transcriptional activation of nod genes and subsequent synthesis of Nod Factors (NFs). NFs then induce various legume responses essential for this symbiosis. Although evidence suggests differential regulation of nodD expression and NF biosynthesis during symbiosis, the necessity of this regulation for the formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules remains uncertain. Here, we demonstrate that deletion of the Rlv3841 NodD regulatory domain results in a constitutively active protein (NodD
Plant architecture and subsequent productivity are determined by the shoot apical dominance, which is disturbed by the deficiency of boron, one of the essential trace elements for plant growth and reproduction. However, the mechanism by which B controls shoot apical dominance or axillary bud outgrows under B deficiency is still unclear. This work aimed to investigate the mechanistic basis of this process, with focus on the interaction between B and polar auxin transport. Adopting an all-buds phenotyping methodology and employing several complementary approaches, we found that boron deficiency inhibited plant growth and changed the shoot architecture, resulting in the outgrowth of axillary buds at nodes 1-3. This was related to the auxin accumulation in shoot apical parts buds under B deficiency. Applying N-1-naphthylphthalamic acid to inhibit auxin transport from the shoot apex promoted the outgrowth of axillary buds in boron-sufficient (+B) plants. In decapitated plants, the application of exogenous auxin to the shoot apex only inhibited the outgrowth of axillary buds in +B plants. At higher auxin doses, the toxic effect of IAA was observed in the lower part of the shoot, which was more severe in +B plants than in B-deprived (-B) plants. Furthermore, the expression of PsPIN3 was significantly downregulated under -B conditions. These results indicate that B deficiency inhibits PAT from the apical bud through the main stem to the lower parts, leading to an increase of auxin level in the apical bud, which inhibits the growth of apical buds while stimulating the outgrowth of axillary buds.
Plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs), one sub-family of aquaporins (AQPs), are responsible for plant abiotic stress responses. However, little information is currently available about the stress responsiveness of the
Fruits, with their diverse shapes, colors, and flavors, represent a fascinating aspect of plant evolution and have played a significant role in human history and nutrition. Understanding the origins and evolutionary pathways of fruits offers valuable insights into plant diversity, ecological relationships, and the development of agricultural systems. Arabidopsis thaliana (Brassicaceae, core eudicot) and Eschscholzia californica (California poppy, Papaveraceae, sister group to core eudicots) both develop dry dehiscent fruits, with two valves separating explosively from the replum-like region upon maturation. This led to the hypothesis, that homologous gene regulatory networks direct fruit development and dehiscence in both species. Transcriptome analysis of separately collected valve and replum-like tissue of California poppy yielded the SEEDSTICK (STK) ortholog as candidate for dehiscence zone regulation. Expression analysis of STK orthologs from dry dehiscing fruits of legumes (Vicia faba, Glycine max and Pisum sativum) shows their involvement in fruit development. Functional analysis using Virus-Induced Gene Silencing (VIGS) showed premature rupture of fruits and clarified the roles of EscaSTK: an evolutionary conserved role in seed filling and seed coat development, and a novel role in restricting cell divisions in the inner cell layer of the valve. Our analysis shows that the gene regulatory network described in Arabidopsis is significantly different in other dicots, even if their fruits form a dehiscence zone at the valve margins. The ortholog of STK, known to be involved in ovule development and seed abscission in Arabidopsis, was recruited to a network regulating fruit wall proliferation in California poppy. There, EscaSTK allows fruit maturation without premature capsule rupture, highlighting the importance of proper endocarp development for successful seed dispersal.
During the establishment of the symbiosis with legume plants, rhizobia are exposed to hostile physical and chemical microenvironments to which adaptations are required. Stress response proteins including small heat shock proteins (sHSPs) were previously shown to be differentially regulated in bacteroids induced by
Pea (Pisum sativum L.) is an important temperate legume crop providing plant-based proteins for food and feed worldwide. Pea yield can be limited by several biotic stresses, among which rust represents a major limiting factor in many temperate and subtropical regions. Some efforts have been made to assess the natural variation in pea resistance to rust, but its efficient exploitation in breeding is limited since the resistance loci identified so far are scarce and their responsible gene(s) unknown. To overcome this knowledge gap, a comprehensive genome-wide association study (GWAS) has been performed on pea rust, caused by Uromyces pisi, to uncover genetic loci associated with resistance. Utilizing a diverse collection of 320 pea accessions, we evaluated phenotypic responses to two rust isolates using both traditional methods and advanced image-based phenotyping. We detected 95 significant trait-marker associations using a set of 26,045 Diversity Arrays Technology-sequencing polymorphic markers. Our in silico analysis identified 62 candidate genes putatively involved in rust resistance, grouped into different functional categories such as gene expression regulation, vesicle trafficking, cell wall biosynthesis, and hormonal signaling. This research highlights the potential of GWAS to identify molecular markers associated with resistance and candidate genes against pea rust, offering new targets for precision breeding. By integrating our findings into current breeding programs, we can facilitate the development of pea varieties with improved resistance to rust, contributing to sustainable agricultural practices and food security. This study sets the stage for future functional genomic analyses and the application of genomic selection approaches to enhance disease resistance in peas.
Salinization is recognized as a global problem, restricting agricultural production and sustainability. Targeting the salinity-induced oxidative stress, antioxidant treatment represents a protective strategy to improve plant salt tolerance. Herein, we report a V
Ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS)-induced mutagenesis is a prominent method for generating plant mutants, often resulting in chimera plants; however, their transcriptional and genetic characteristic remain elusive. In this investigation, chimera pea (
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) plays a crucial role in regulating glucose homeostasis by stimulating insulin secretion and suppressing glucagon release. Our previous study observed that pea protein hydrolysate (PPH) exhibited the function of triggering GLP-1 secretion. However, the underlying mechanisms have not been revealed. Herein, the mechanisms of PPH-stimulated GLP-1 secretion were investigated in NCI-H716 cells. The PPH-induced GLP-1 secretion was reduced (
As older adults tend to reduce their intake of animal-source proteins, plant-source proteins may offer valuable resources for better protein intake. The aim of this study was to assess whether the pea proteins can be used to achieve blood amino acid levels that stimulate muscle protein synthesis. We measured variations in plasma amino acid concentrations in young and older adults given pea (NUTRALYS
Normal root growth is essential for the plant uptake of soil nutrients and water. However, exogenous H
The phytohormone strigolactone (SL) inhibits shoot branching, whereas the signalling metabolite trehalose 6-phosphate (Tre6P) promotes branching. How Tre6P and SL signalling may interact and which molecular mechanisms might be involved remains largely unknown. Transcript profiling of Arabidopsis SL mutants revealed a cluster of differentially expressed genes highly enriched in the Tre6P pathway compared with wild-type (WT) plants or brc1 mutants. Tre6P-related genes were also differentially expressed in axillary buds of garden pea (Pisum sativum) SL mutants. Tre6P levels were elevated in the SL signalling mutant more axillary (max) growth 2 compared with other SL mutants or WT plants indicating a role of MAX2-dependent SL signalling in regulating Tre6P levels. A transgenic approach to increase Tre6P levels demonstrated that all SL mutant lines and brc1 flowered earlier, showing all of these mutants were responsive to Tre6P. Elevated Tre6P led to increased branching in WT plants but not in max2 and max4 mutants, indicating some dependency between the SL pathway and Tre6P regulation of shoot branching. By contrast, elevated Tre6P led to an enhanced branching phenotype in brc1 mutants indicating independence between BRC1 and Tre6P. A model is proposed whereby SL signalling represses branching via Tre6P and independently of the BRC1 pathway.
Pea is a grain legume crop with a high potential to accelerate the food transition due to its high seed protein content and relatively well-balanced amino acid composition. The critical role of external sulfur (S) supply in determining seed yield and seed quality in pea makes it essential to understand the impact of whole plant S management on the trade-off between these two traits. Here, we investigated the physiological relevance of vacuolar sulfate remobilization by targeting PsSULTR4, the only pea sulfate transporter showing substantial similarity to the vacuolar sulfate exporter AtSULTR4;1. Five mutations in PsSULTR4 were identified by TILLING (Targeting Induced Local Lesions IN Genomes), two of which, a loss of function (W78*) and a missense (E568K), significantly decreased seed yield under S deprivation. We demonstrate that PsSULTR4 triggers S distribution from source tissues, especially lower leaves, to reproductive organs to maintain seed yield under S deficiency. Under sufficient S supply, sultr4 seeds display lower levels of the S-rich storage protein PA1 at maturity. They also overaccumulate sulfate in the endosperm at the onset of seed filling. These findings uncover a role of PsSULTR4 in the remobilization of vacuolar sulfate during embryo development, allowing the efficient synthesis of S-rich proteins. Our study uncovers that PsSULTR4 functions (i) in source tissues to remobilize stored vacuolar sulfate for seed production under low S availability and (ii) in developing seeds well supplied with S to fine-tune sulfate remobilization from the endosperm as a critical control point for storage activities in the embryo.
Peas are essential for human nutrition and played a crucial role in the discovery of Mendelian laws of inheritance. In this study, we assembled the genome of the elite vegetable pea cultivar 'Zhewan No. 1' at the chromosome level and analyzed resequencing data from 314 accessions, creating a comprehensive map of genetic variation in peas. We identified 235 candidate loci associated with 57 important agronomic traits through genome-wide association studies. Notably, we pinpointed the causal gene haplotypes responsible for four Mendelian traits: stem length (Le/le), flower color (A/a), cotyledon color (I/i) and seed shape (R/r). Additionally, we discovered the genes controlling pod form (Mendelian P/p) and hilum color. Our study also involved constructing a gene expression atlas across 22 tissues, highlighting key gene modules related to pod and seed development. These findings provide valuable pea genomic information and will facilitate the future genome-informed improvement of pea crops.
Acetochlor, as a commonly used pre-emergent herbicide, can be toxic to crops and affect production if used improperly. However, the toxic mechanism of acetochlor on plants is not fully understood. The present study used a combination of transcriptomic analysis and physiological measurements to investigate the effects of short-term (15-day) exposure to different concentrations of acetochlor (1, 10, 20 mg/kg) on the morphology, physiology, and transcriptional levels of pea seedlings, aiming to elucidate the toxic response and resistance mechanisms in pea seedlings under herbicide stress. The results showed that the toxicity of acetochlor to pea seedlings was dose-dependent, manifested as dwarfing and stem base browning with increasing concentrations, especially at 10 mg/kg and above. Analysis of the antioxidant system showed that from the 1 mg/kg treatment, malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, and glutathione peroxidase in peas increased with increasing concentrations of acetochlor, indicating oxidative damage. Analysis of the glutathione (GSH) metabolism system showed that under 10 mg/kg treatment, the GSH content of pea plants significantly increased, and GSH transferase activity and gene expression were significantly induced, indicating a detoxification response in plants. Transcriptomic analysis showed that after acetochlor treatment, differentially expressed genes in peas were significantly enriched in the phenylpropane metabolic pathway, and the levels of key metabolites (flavonoids and lignin) were increased. In addition, we found that acetochlor-induced dwarfing of pea seedlings may be related to gibberellin signal transduction. Environ Toxicol Chem 2024;43:2005-2019. © 2024 SETAC.
Flowering plants adjust their reproductive period to maximize the success of the offspring. Monocarpic plants, those with a single reproductive cycle that precedes plant senescence and death, tightly regulate both flowering initiation and flowering cessation. The end of the flowering period involves the arrest of the inflorescence meristem activity, known as proliferative arrest, in what has been interpreted as an evolutionary adaptation to maximize the allocation of resources to seed production and the viability of the progeny. Factors influencing proliferative arrest were described for several monocarpic plant species many decades ago, but only in the last few years studies performed in Arabidopsis have allowed to approach proliferative arrest regulation in a comprehensive manner by studying the physiology, hormone dynamics, and genetic factors involved in its regulation. However, these studies remain restricted to Arabidopsis and there is a need to expand our knowledge to other monocarpic species to propose general mechanisms controlling the process. In this work, we have characterized proliferative arrest in Pisum sativum, trying to parallel available studies in Arabidopsis to maximize this comparative framework. We have assessed quantitatively the role of fruits/seeds in the process, the influence of the positional effect of these fruits/seeds in the behavior of the inflorescence meristem, and the transcriptomic changes in the inflorescence associated with the arrested state of the meristem. Our results support a high conservation of the factors triggering arrest in pea and Arabidopsis, but also reveal differences reinforcing the need to perform similar studies in other species.
The dose effect of radiation has long been a topic of concern, but the molecular mechanism behind it is still unclear. In this study, dried pea seeds were irradiated with
Abscisic acid (ABA) plays a crucial role in plant defense mechanisms under adverse environmental conditions, but its metabolism and perception in response to heavy metals are largely unknown. In
The plant homeodomain finger (PHD finger) protein, a type of zinc finger protein extensively distributed in eukaryotes, plays diverse roles in regulating plant growth and development. While PHD finger proteins have been identified in various species, their functions remain largely unexplored in pea (
Squamous promoter binding protein-like (SPL) genes encode plant-specific transcription factors (TFs) that play essential roles in modulating plant growth, development, and stress response. Pea (Pisum sativum L.) is a coarse grain crop of great importance in food production, biodiversity conservation and molecular genetic research, providing genetic information and nutritional resources for improving agricultural production and promoting human health. However, only limited researches on the structure and functions of SPL genes exist in pea (PsSPLs). In this study, we identified 22 PsSPLs and conducted a genome-wide analysis of their physical characteristics, chromosome distribution, gene structure, phylogenetic evolution and gene expression patterns. As a result, the PsSPLs were unevenly distributed on the seven chromosomes of pea and harbored the SBP domain, which is composed of approximately 76 amino acid residues. The phylogenetic analysis revealed that the PsSPLs clustered into eight subfamilies and showed high homology with SPL genes in soybean. Further analysis showed the presence of segmental duplications in the PsSPLs. The expression patterns of 22 PsSPLs at different tissues, developmental stages and under various stimulus conditions were evaluated by qRT-PCR method. It was found that the expression patterns of PsSPLs from the same subfamily were similar in different tissues, the transcripts of most PsSPLs reached the maximum peak value at 14 days after anthesis in the pod. Abiotic stresses can cause significantly up-regulated PsSPL19 expression with spatiotemporal specificity, in addition, four plant hormones can cause the up-regulated expression of most PsSPLs including PsSPL19 in a time-dependent manner. Therefore, PsSPL19 could be a key candidate gene for signal transduction during pea growth and development, pod formation, abiotic stress and plant hormone response. Our findings should provide insights for the elucidating of development regulation mechanism and breeding for resistance to abiotic stress pea.
Peas (Pisum sativum L.) are widely cultivated in temperate regions and are susceptible hosts for various viruses across different families. The discovery and identification of new viruses in peas has significant implications for field disease management. Here, we identified a mixed infection of two viruses from field-collected peas exhibiting virus-like symptoms using metatranscriptome and small RNA sequencing techniques. Upon identification, one of the viruses was determined to be a newly isolated and discovered bymovirus from peas, named "pea bymovirus 1 (PBV1)". The other was identified as a novel variant of bean yellow mosaic virus (BYMV-HZ1). Subsequently, mechanical inoculation and RT-PCR assays confirmed that both viruses could be inoculated back onto peas and tobaccos, showing mixed infection by PBV1 and BYMV-HZ1. To our knowledge, this is the first isolation of a bymovirus from pea and the first documented case of mixed infection of peas by PBV1 and BYMV-HZ1 in China.
Strigolactones (SLs), a class of plant apocarotenoids, serve dual roles as rhizosphere-signaling molecules and plant hormones. Orobanchol, a major naturally occurring SL, along with its various derivatives, has been detected in the root exudates of plants of the Fabaceae family. Medicaol, fabacyl acetate, and orobanchyl acetate were identified in the root exudates of barrel medic (
Semi-leafless represents an advantageous plant architecture in pea breeding due to its ability to enhance resistance to lodging and potentially to powdery mildew. The introduction of semi-leafless pea varieties is considered a seminal advancement in pea breeding over the past half-century. The afila (af) mutation leads to the replacement of lateral leaflets by highly branched tendrils; combined with the semi-dwarfing le mutation, it forms the semi-leafless cultivated variety. In this study, we identified that mutations in two tandemly-arrayed genes encoding Cys(2)His(2) zinc finger transcription factors, PsPALM1a and PsPALM1b, were closely associated with the afila phenotype. These two genes may be deleted in the af mutant. In situ hybridization showed that both genes exhibit specific expression in early leaflet primordia. Furthermore, suppression of PsPALM1a/PsPALM1b resulted in a high frequency of conversion of lateral leaflets into tendrils. In conclusion, our study provides genetic evidence demonstrating that mutations in PsPALM1a and PsPALM1b are responsible for the af locus, contributing to a better understanding of compound leaf formation in peas and offering new insights for breeding applications related to afila.
Currently, salinization is impacting more than 50% of arable land, posing a significant challenge to agriculture globally. Salt causes osmotic and ionic stress, determining cell dehydration, ion homeostasis, and metabolic process alteration, thus negatively influencing plant development. A promising sustainable approach to improve plant tolerance to salinity is the use of plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB). This work aimed to characterize two bacterial strains, that have been isolated from pea root nodules, initially called PG1 and PG2, and assess their impact on growth, physiological, biochemical, and molecular parameters in three pea genotypes (Merveille de Kelvedon, Lincoln, Meraviglia d'Italia) under salinity. Bacterial strains were molecularly identified, and characterized by in vitro assays to evaluate the plant growth promoting abilities. Both strains were identified as The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-024-01419-8.
In light of expected climate change, it is important to seek nature-based solutions that can contribute to the protection of our planet as well as to help overcome the emerging adverse changes. In an agricultural context, increasing plant resistance to abiotic stress seems to be crucial. Therefore, the scope of the presented research was focused on the application of botanical extracts that exerted positive effects on model plants growing under controlled laboratory conditions, as well as plants subjected to sorbitol-induced osmotic stress. Foliar spraying increased the length and fresh mass of the shoots (e.g., extracts from
The mature seed in legumes consists of an embryo and seed coat. In contrast to knowledge about the embryo, we know relatively little about the seed coat. We analyzed the gene expression during seed development using a panel of cultivated and wild pea genotypes. Gene co-expression analysis identified gene modules related to seed development, dormancy, and domestication. Oxidoreductase genes were found to be important components of developmental and domestication processes. Proteomic and metabolomic analysis revealed that domestication favored proteins involved in photosynthesis and protein metabolism at the expense of seed defense. Seed coats of wild peas were rich in cell wall-bound metabolites and the protective compounds predominated in their seed coats. Altogether, we have shown that domestication altered pea seed development and modified (mostly reduced) the transcripts along with the protein and metabolite composition of the seed coat, especially the content of the compounds involved in defense. We investigated dynamic profiles of selected identified phenolic and flavonoid metabolites across seed development. These compounds usually deteriorated the palatability and processing of the seeds. Our findings further provide resources to study secondary metabolism and strategies for improving the quality of legume seeds which comprise an important part of the human protein diet.
Monocarpic plants have a single reproductive phase in their life. Therefore, flower and fruit production are restricted to the length of this period. This reproductive strategy involves the regulation of flowering cessation by a coordinated arrest of the growth of the inflorescence meristems, optimizing resource allocation to ensure seed filling. Flowering cessation appears to be a regulated phenomenon in all monocarpic plants. Early studies in several species identified seed production as a major factor triggering inflorescence proliferative arrest. Recently, genetic factors controlling inflorescence arrest, in parallel to the putative signals elicited by seed production, have started to be uncovered in Arabidopsis, with the MADS-box gene
Soil rhizobia promote nitrogen fixation in legume hosts, maximizing their tolerance to different biotic stressors, plant biomass, crop growth, and yield. While the presence of soil rhizobia is considered beneficial for plants, few studies have assessed whether variation in rhizobia abundance affects the tolerance of legumes to stressors. To address this, we assessed the effects of variable soil rhizobia inoculum concentrations on interactions between a legume host (
Nitrogen (N) is one of the critical elements required by plants and is therefore one of the important limiting factors for growth and yield. To increase agricultural productivity, farmers are using excessive N fertilizers to the soil, which poses a threat to the ecosystem, as most of the applied nitrogen fertilizer is not taken up by crops, and runoff to aquatic bodies and the environment causes eutrophication, pollution, and greenhouse gas emissions. In this study, we used LBS6, a
The unculturable nature of intracellular obligate symbionts presents a significant challenge for elucidating gene functionality, necessitating the development of gene manipulation techniques. One of the best-studied obligate symbioses is that between aphids and the bacterial endosymbiont Buchnera aphidicola. Given the extensive genome reduction observed in Buchnera, the remaining genes are crucial for understanding the host-symbiont relationship, but a lack of tools for manipulating gene function in the endosymbiont has significantly impeded the exploration of the molecular mechanisms underlying this mutualism. In this study, we introduced a novel gene manipulation technique employing synthetic single-stranded peptide nucleic acids (PNAs). We targeted the critical Buchnera groEL using specially designed antisense PNAs conjugated to an arginine-rich cell-penetrating peptide (CPP). Within 24 h of PNA administration via microinjection, we observed a significant reduction in groEL expression and Buchnera cell count. Notably, the interference of groEL led to profound morphological malformations in Buchnera, indicative of impaired cellular integrity. The gene knockdown technique developed in this study, involving the microinjection of CPP-conjugated antisense PNAs, provides a potent approach for in vivo gene manipulation of unculturable intracellular symbionts, offering valuable insights into their biology and interactions with hosts.
The alteration of chromatin accessibility plays an important role in plant responses to abiotic stress. Carbon-based nanomaterials (CBNMs) have attracted increasing interest in agriculture due to their potential impact on crop productivity, showcasing effects on plant biological processes at transcriptional levels; however, their impact on chromatin accessibility remains unknown. This study found that fullerenol can penetrate the seed coat of pea to mitigate the reduction of seed germination caused by osmotic stress. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) revealed that the application of fullerenol caused the high expression of genes related to oxidoreduction to return to a normal level. Assay for transposase accessible chromatin sequencing (ATAC-seq) confirmed that fullerenol application reduced the overall levels of chromatin accessibility of numerous genes, including those related to environmental signaling, transcriptional regulation, and metabolism. This study suggests that fullerenol alleviates osmotic stress on various fronts, encompassing antioxidant, transcriptional, and epigenetic levels. This advances knowledge of the working mechanism of this nanomaterial within plant cells. © 2024 Society of Chemical Industry.
N 6-methyladenosine (m6A), which is the mostly prevalent modification in eukaryotic mRNAs, is involved in gene expression regulation and many RNA metabolism processes. Accurate prediction of m6A modification is important for understanding its molecular mechanisms in different biological contexts. However, most existing models have limited range of application and are species-centric. Here we present PEA-m6A, a unified, modularized and parameterized framework that can streamline m6A-Seq data analysis for predicting m6A-modified regions in plant genomes. The PEA-m6A framework builds ensemble learning-based m6A prediction models with statistic-based and deep learning-driven features, achieving superior performance with an improvement of 6.7% to 23.3% in the area under precision-recall curve compared with state-of-the-art regional-scale m6A predictor WeakRM in 12 plant species. Especially, PEA-m6A is capable of leveraging knowledge from pretrained models via transfer learning, representing an innovation in that it can improve prediction accuracy of m6A modifications under small-sample training tasks. PEA-m6A also has a strong capability for generalization, making it suitable for application in within- and cross-species m6A prediction. Overall, this study presents a promising m6A prediction tool, PEA-m6A, with outstanding performance in terms of its accuracy, flexibility, transferability, and generalization ability. PEA-m6A has been packaged using Galaxy and Docker technologies for ease of use and is publicly available at https://github.com/cma2015/PEA-m6A.
Aphanomyces euteiches is a soil-borne oomycete that causes root rot in pea and other legume species. Symptoms of Aphanomyces root rot (ARR) include root discoloration and wilting, leading to significant yield losses in pea production. Resistance to ARR is known to be polygenic but the roles of single genes in the pea immune response are still poorly understood. This study uses transcriptomics to elucidate the immune response of two pea genotypes varying in their levels of resistance to A. euteiches. In this study, we inoculated roots of the pea (P. sativum L.) genotypes 'Linnea' (susceptible) and 'PI180693' (resistant) with two different A. euteiches strains varying in levels of virulence. The roots were harvested at 6 h post-inoculation (hpi), 20 hpi and 48 hpi, followed by differential gene expression analysis. Our results showed a time- and genotype-dependent immune response towards A. euteiches infection, involving several WRKY and MYB-like transcription factors, along with genes associated with jasmonic acid (JA) and abscisic acid (ABA) signaling. By cross-referencing with genes segregating with partial resistance to ARR, we identified 39 candidate disease resistance genes at the later stage of infection. Among the genes solely upregulated in the resistant genotype 'PI180693', Psat7g091800.1 was polymorphic between the pea genotypes and encoded a Leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase reminiscent of the Arabidopsis thaliana FLAGELLIN-SENSITIVE 2 receptor. This study provides new insights into the gene expression dynamics controlling the immune response of resistant and susceptible pea genotypes to A. euteiches infection. We present a set of 39 candidate disease resistance genes for ARR in pea, including the putative immune receptor Psat7g091800.1, for future functional validation.
Gibberellins (GA) have a profound influence on the formation of lateral root organs. However, the precise role this hormone plays in the cell-specific events during lateral root formation, rhizobial infection and nodule organogenesis, including interactions with auxin and cytokinin (CK), is not clear. We performed epidermal- and endodermal-specific complementation of the severely GA-deficient na pea (Pisum sativum) mutant with Agrobacterium rhizogenes. Gibberellin mutants were used to examine the spatial expression pattern of CK (TCSn)- and auxin (DR5)-responsive promoters and hormone levels. We found that GA produced in the endodermis promote lateral root and nodule organogenesis and can induce a mobile signal(s) that suppresses rhizobial infection. By contrast, epidermal-derived GA suppress infection but have little influence on root or nodule development. GA suppress the CK-responsive TCSn promoter in the cortex and are required for normal auxin activation during nodule primordia formation. Our findings indicate that GA regulate the checkpoints between infection thread (IT) penetration of the cortex and invasion of nodule primordial cells and promote the subsequent progression of nodule development. It appears that GA limit the progression and branching of IT in the cortex by restricting CK response and activate auxin response to promote nodule primordia development.
Transitions from sexual to asexual reproduction are common in eukaryotes, but the underlying mechanisms remain poorly known. The pea aphid-Acyrthosiphon pisum-exhibits reproductive polymorphism, with cyclical parthenogenetic and obligate parthenogenetic lineages, offering an opportunity to decipher the genetic basis of sex loss. Previous work on this species identified a single 840 kb region controlling reproductive polymorphism and carrying 32 genes. With the aim of identifying the gene(s) responsible for sex loss and the resulting consequences on the genetic programs controlling sexual or asexual embryogenesis, we compared the transcriptomic response to photoperiod shortening-the main sex-inducing cue-of a sexual and an obligate asexual lineage of the pea aphid, focusing on heads (where the photoperiodic cue is detected) and embryos (the final target of the cue). Our analyses revealed that four genes (one expressed in the head, and three in the embryos) of the region responded differently to photoperiod in the two lineages. We also found that the downstream genetic programs expressed during embryonic development of a future sexual female encompass ∼1600 genes, among which miRNAs, piRNAs and histone modification pathways are overrepresented. These genes mainly co-localize in two genomic regions enriched in transposable elements (TEs). Our results suggest that the causal polymorphism(s) in the 840 kb region somehow impair downstream epigenetic and post-transcriptional regulations in obligate asexual lineages, thereby sustaining asexual reproduction.
The WRKY gene family is one of the largest families of transcription factors in higher plants, and WRKY transcription factors play important roles in plant growth and development as well as in response to abiotic stresses; however, the WRKY gene family in pea has not been systematically reported. In this study, 89 pea WRKY genes were identified and named according to the random distribution of PsWRKY genes on seven chromosomes. The gene family was found to have nine pairs of tandem duplicates and 19 pairs of segment duplicates. Phylogenetic analyses of the PsWRKY and 60 Arabidopsis WRKY proteins were performed to determine their homology, and the PsWRKYs were classified into seven subfamilies. Analysis of the physicochemical properties, motif composition, and gene structure of pea WRKYs revealed significant differences in the physicochemical properties within the PsWRKY family; however, their gene structure and protein-conserved motifs were highly conserved among the subfamilies. To further investigate the evolutionary relationships of the PsWRKY family, we constructed comparative syntenic maps of pea with representative monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants and found that it was most recently homologous to the dicotyledonous WRKY gene families. Cis-acting element analysis of PsWRKY genes revealed that this gene family can respond to hormones, such as abscisic acid (ABA), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), gibberellin (GA), methyl jasmonate (MeJA), and salicylic acid (SA). Further analysis of the expression of 14 PsWRKY genes from different subfamilies in different tissues and fruit developmental stages, as well as under five different hormone treatments, revealed differences in their expression patterns in the different tissues and fruit developmental stages, as well as under hormone treatments, suggesting that PsWRKY genes may have different physiological functions and respond to hormones. In this study, we systematically identified WRKY genes in pea for the first time and further investigated their physicochemical properties, evolution, and expression patterns, providing a theoretical basis for future studies on the functional characterization of pea WRKY genes during plant growth and development.
Chickpea (Cicer arietinum ) is a grain crop that is an important source of protein, vitamins, carbohydrates and minerals. It is highly sensitive to salt stress, and salt damage to cellular homeostasis and protein folding affects production. Plants have several mechanisms to prevent cellular damages under abiotic stresses, such as proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (protein isulfide somerases (PDIs) and PDI-like proteins), which help prevent the build-up of mis-folded proteins that are damaged under abiotic stresses. In this study, we completed initial comprehensive genome-wide analysis of the chickpea PDI gene family. We found eight PDI genes are distributed on six out of eight chromosomes. Two pairs of paralogous genes were found to have segmental duplications. The phylogenetic analysis showed that the PDI s have a high degree of homology in C. arietinum, Cicer reticulatum, Lens culinaris, Phaseolus acutifolius, Pisum sativum and Oryza sativa . The gene structure analysis displayed that CaPDI1-CaPDI8 have 9-12 exons except for CaPDI5 , which has 25 exons. Subcellular localisation indicated accumulation of CaPDIs in endoplasmic reticulum. Protein-conserved motifs and domain analysis demonstrated that thioredoxin domains of PDI family is present in all CaPDIs. CaPDI proteins have strong protein-protein interaction. In silico expression analysis showed that four out of eight PDI genes (CPDI2, CaPDI6, CaPDI7 and CaPDI8 ) were expressed under salt stress. Of these, expression of CaPDI2 and CaPDI8 was the highest. This work indicated that PDI genes are involved in salt stress tolerance in chickpea and the CaPDIs may be further studied for their role of inducing salt tolerance.
Evolutionarily conserved in plants, the enzyme D-myo-inositol-3-phosphate synthase (MIPS; EC 5.5.1.4) regulates the initial, rate-limiting reaction in the phytic acid biosynthetic pathway. They are reported to be transcriptional regulators involved in various physiological functions in the plants, growth, and biotic/abiotic stress responses. Even though the genomes of most legumes are fully sequenced and available, an all-inclusive study of the MIPS family members in legumes is still ongoing. We found 24 MIPS genes in ten legumes: Arachis hypogea, Cicer arietinum, Cajanus cajan, Glycine max, Lablab purpureus, Medicago truncatula, Pisum sativum, Phaseolus vulgaris, Trifolium pratense and Vigna unguiculata. The total number of MIPS genes found in each species ranged from two to three. The MIPS genes were classified into five clades based on their evolutionary relationships with Arabidopsis genes. The structural patterns of intron/exon and the protein motifs that were conserved in each gene were highly group-specific. In legumes, MIPS genes were inconsistently distributed across their genomes. A comparison of genomes and gene sequences showed that this family was subjected to purifying selection and the gene expansion in MIPS family in legumes was mainly caused by segmental duplication. Through quantitative PCR, expression patterns of MIPS in response to various abiotic stresses, in the vegetative tissues of various legumes were studied. Expression pattern shows that MIPS genes control the development and differentiation of various organs, and have significant responses to salinity and drought stress. The MIPS genes in the genomes of legumes have been identified, characterized and their expression was analysed. The findings pave way for understanding their molecular functions and evolution, and lead to identify the putative MIPS genes associated with different cell and tissue development.
The transition from seed to seedling represents a critical developmental step in the life cycle of higher plants, dramatically affecting plant ontogenesis and stress tolerance. The release from dormancy to acquiring germination ability is defined by a balance of phytohormones, with the substantial contribution of abscisic acid (ABA), which inhibits germination. We studied the embryonic axis of
Root transcriptomics and biochemical analyses in water-stressed Pisum sativum plants inoculated with Pseudomonas spp. suggested preservation of ABA-related pathway and ROS detoxification, resulting in an improved tolerance to stress. Drought already affects agriculture in large areas of the globe and, due to climate change, these areas are predicted to become increasingly unsuitable for agriculture. For several years, plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) have been used to improve legume yields, but many aspects of this interaction are still unclear. To elucidate the mechanisms through which root-associated PGPB can promote plant growth in dry environments, we investigated the response of pea plants inoculated with a potentially beneficial Pseudomonas strain (PK6) and subjected to two different water regimes. Combined biometric, biochemical, and root RNA-seq analyses revealed that PK6 improved pea growth specifically under water deficit, as inoculated plants showed an increased biomass, larger leaves, and longer roots. Abscisic acid (ABA) and proline quantification, together with the transcriptome analysis, suggested that PK6-inoculated plant response to water deficit was more diversified compared to non-inoculated plants, involving alternative metabolic pathways for the detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the preservation of the ABA stress signaling pathway. We suggest that the metabolic response of PK6-inoculated plants was more effective in their adaptation to water deprivation, leading to their improved biometric traits. Besides confirming the positive role that PGPB can have in the growth of a legume crop under adverse conditions, this study offers novel information on the mechanisms regulating plant-bacteria interaction under varying water availability. These mechanisms and the involved genes could be exploited in the future for the development of legume varieties, which can profitably grow in dry climates.
Plant respiratory burst oxidase homologs (RBOHs) are key enzymes regulating superoxide production, which is important for plant development and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. This study aimed to characterize the
Agriculture is particularly impacted by global changes, drought being a main limiting factor of crop production. Here, we focus on pea (Pisum sativum), a model legume cultivated for its seed nutritional value. A water deficit (WD) was applied during its early reproductive phase, harvesting plant organs at two key developmental stages, either at the embryonic or the seed-filling stages. We combined phenotypic, physiological and transcriptome analyses to better understand the adaptive response to drought. First, we showed that apical growth arrest is a major phenotypic indicator of water stress. Sugar content was also greatly impacted, especially leaf fructose and starch contents. Our RNA-seq analysis identified 2001 genes regulated by WD in leaf, 3684 genes in root and 2273 genes in embryonic seed, while only 80 genes were regulated during seed-filling. Hence, a large transcriptional reprogramming occurred in response to WD in seeds during early embryonic stage, but no longer during the later stage of nutritional filling. Biological processes involved in transcriptional regulation, carbon transport and metabolism were greatly regulated by WD in both source and sink organs, as illustrated by the expression of genes encoding transcription factors, sugar transporters and enzymes of the starch synthesis pathway. We then looked at the transcriptomic changes during seed development, highlighting a transition from monosaccharide utilization at the embryonic stage to sucrose transport feeding the starch synthesis pathway at the seed-filling stage. Altogether, our study presents an integrative picture of sugar transport and metabolism in response to drought and during seed development at a genome-wide level.
Nitrate, the primary form of nitrogen absorbed by plants, supplies essential compounds for plant growth and development. Peas are frequently used as rotation crops to improve and stabilize soil fertility. However, the determinants of nitrate uptake and transport in peas remain largely unclear, primarily due to the pea genome's complexity and size. In this study, we utilized the complete genomic information of peas to identify three PsNRT2 family genes within the pea genome. We conducted a comprehensive examination of their protein conserved domains, physicochemical properties, gene structure, and phylogenetic evolution, revealing PsNRT2.3 as the potential key gene for high-affinity nitrate transport in peas. Subcellular localization studies indicated that PsNRT2.3 resides on the plasma membrane. Using hairy root transformation, we noted the predominant expression of PsNRT2.3 in the root stele, which is inducible by nitrate. Our experiments involving overexpression and silencing methods further confirmed that PsNRT2.3 plays a key role in enhancing nitrate uptake in peas. Additionally, our work showed that PsNAR could interact with PsNRT2.3, modulating pea nitrate uptake. After silencing PsNAR, even with the normal expression of PsNRT2.3, the ability of peas to absorb nitrate was significantly reduced. In conclusion, this study identifies the high-affinity nitrate transport gene PsNRT2.3 in peas and clarifies its critical role and regulatory network in nitrate transport, contributing to a new understanding of nitrate utilization in peas.
Basic leucine zipper (bZIP) protein is a plant-specific transcription factor involved in various biological processes, including light signaling, seed maturation, flower development, cell elongation, seed accumulation protein, and abiotic and biological stress responses. However, little is known about the pea bZIP family. In this study, we identified 87 bZIP genes in pea, named PsbZIP1 ~ PsbZIP87, via homology analysis using Arabidopsis. The genes were divided into 12 subfamilies and distributed unevenly in 7 pea chromosomes. PsbZIPs in the same subfamily contained similar intron/exon organization and motif composition. 1 tandem repeat event and 12 segmental duplication events regulated the expansion of the PsbZIP gene family. To better understand the evolution of the PsbZIP gene family, we conducted collinearity analysis using Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa Japonica, Fagopyrum tataricum, Solanum lycopersicum, Vitis vinifera, and Brachypodium distachyon as the related species of pea. In addition, interactions between PsbZIP proteins and promoters containing hormone- and stress-responsive cis-acting elements suggest that the regulation of PsbZIP expression was complex. We also evaluated the expression patterns of bZIP genes in different tissues and at different fruit development stages, all while subjecting them to five hormonal treatments. These results provide a deeper understanding of PsbZIP gene family evolution and resources for the molecular breeding of pea. The findings suggested that PsbZIP genes, specifically PSbZIP49, play key roles in the development of peas and their response to various hormones.
Inhibition of root elongation is an important growth response to salinity, which is thought to be regulated by the accumulation of jasmonates and auxins in roots. Nevertheless, the mechanisms of the interaction of these hormones in the regulation of the growth response to salinity are still not clear enough. Their better understanding depends on the study of the distribution of jasmonates and auxins between root cells. This was achieved with the help of immunolocalization of auxin (indoleacetic acid) and jasmonates on the root sections of pea plants. Salinity inhibited root elongation and decreased the size of the meristem zone and the length of cells in the elongation zone. Immunofluorescence based on the use of appropriate, specific antibodies that recognize auxins and jasmonates revealed an increased abundance of both hormones in the meristem zone. The obtained data suggests the participation of either auxins or jasmonates in the inhibition of cell division, which leads to a decrease in the size of the meristem zone. The level of only auxin and not jasmonate increased in the elongation zone. However, since some literature evidence argues against inhibition of root cell division by auxins, while jasmonates have been shown to inhibit this process, we came to the conclusion that elevated jasmonate is a more likely candidate for inhibiting root meristem activity under salinity conditions. Data suggests that auxins, not jasmonates, reduce cell size in the elongation zone of salt-stressed plants, a suggestion supported by the known ability of auxins to inhibit root cell elongation.
The alternative oxidase (AOX) is a ubiquinol oxidase with a crucial role in the mitochondrial alternative respiratory pathway, which is associated with various processes in plants. In this study, the activity of AOX in pea seed germination was determined in two pea cultivars, 'Maravilha d'América' (MA) and 'Torta de Quebrar' (TQ), during a germination trial using cytochrome oxidase (COX) and AOX inhibitors [rotenone (RT) and salicylic hydroxamic acid (SHAM), respectively]. Calorespirometry was used to assess respiratory changes during germination. In both cultivars, SHAM had a greater inhibitory effect on germination than RT, demonstrating the involvement of AOX in germination. Although calorespirometry did not provide direct information on the involvement of the alternative pathway in seed germination, this methodology was valuable for distinguishing cultivars. To gain deeper insights into the role of AOX in seed germination, the AOX gene family was characterized, and the gene expression pattern was evaluated. Three
Climatic changes, such as heatwaves, pose unprecedented challenges for insects, as escalated temperatures above the thermal optimum alter insect reproductive strategies and energy metabolism. While thermal stress responses have been reported in different insect species, thermo-induced developmental abnormalities in phloem-feeding pests are largely unknown. In this laboratory study, we raised two groups of first instar nymphs belonging to two clones of the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum, on fava beans Vicia faba. The instars developed and then asexually reproduced under constant exposure to a sub-lethal heatwave (27°C) for 14 days. Most mothers survived but their progenies showed abnormalities, as stillbirths and appendageless or weak nymphs with folded appendages were delivered. Clone N116 produced more deceased and appendageless embryos, contrary to N127, which produced fewer dead and more malformed premature embryos. Interestingly, the expression of the HSP70 and HSP83 genes differed in mothers between the clones. Moreover, noticeable changes in metabolism, e.g., lipids, were also detected and that differed in response to stress. Deformed offspring production after heat exposure may be due to heat injury and differential HSP gene expression, but may also be indicative of a conflict between maternal and offspring fitness. Reproductive altruism might have occurred to ensure some of the genetically identical daughters survive. This is because maintaining homeostasis and complete embryogenesis could not be simultaneously fulfilled due to the high costs of stress. Our findings shine new light on pea aphid responses to heatwaves and merit further examination across different lineages and species.
Understanding how nutrient stress impacts plant growth is fundamentally important to the development of approaches to improve crop production under nutrient limitation. Here we applied single-cell RNA sequencing to shoot apices of Pisum sativum grown under boron (B) deficiency. We identified up to 15 cell clusters based on the clustering of gene expression profiles and verified cell identity with cell-type-specific marker gene expression. Different cell types responded differently to B deficiency. Specifically, the expression of photosynthetic genes in mesophyll cells (MCs) was down-regulated by B deficiency, consistent with impaired photosynthetic rate. Furthermore, the down-regulation of stomatal development genes in guard cells, including homologs of MUTE and TOO MANY MOUTHS, correlated with a decrease in stomatal density under B deficiency. We also constructed the developmental trajectory of the shoot apical meristem (SAM) cells and a transcription factor interaction network. The developmental progression of SAM to MC was characterized by up-regulation of genes encoding histones and chromatin assembly and remodeling proteins including homologs of FASCIATA1 (FAS1) and SWITCH DEFECTIVE/SUCROSE NON-FERMENTABLE (SWI/SNF) complex. However, B deficiency suppressed their expression, which helps to explain impaired SAM development under B deficiency. These results represent a major advance over bulk-tissue RNA-seq analysis in which cell-type-specific responses are lost and hence important physiological responses to B deficiency are missed. The reported findings reveal strategies by which plants adapt to B deficiency thus offering breeders a set of specific targets for genetic improvement. The reported approach and resources have potential applications well beyond P. sativum species and could be applied to various legumes to improve their adaptability to multiple nutrient or abiotic stresses.
Field pea (Pisum sativum L, 2n = 14) is a popular temperate legume with high economic value. Heat shock factors (HSFs) are the core element in the regulatory mechanism of heat stress responses. HSFs in pea (P. sativum) have not been characterized and their role remains unclear in different abiotic stresses. To address this knowledge gap, the current study aimed to characterize the HSF gene family in pea. We identified 38 PsHsf members in P. sativum, which are distributed on the seven chromosomes, and based on phylogenetic analysis, we classified them into three representative classes i.e. A, B, and C. Conserved motif and gene structure analysis confirmed a high degree of similarity among the members of the same class. Additionally, identified cis-acting regulatory elements (CAREs) related to abiotic responses, development, growth, and hormone signaling provides crucial insights into the regulatory mechanisms of PsHsfs. Our research revealed instances of gene duplication in PsHsf gene family, suggesting that this mechanism could be driving the expansion of the PsHsf gene family. Moreover, Expression analysis of PsHsfs exhibited upregulation under heat stress (HS), salt stress (SS), and drought stress (DS) showing their phenomenal role in stress conditions. PsHsfs protein interaction network suggested their involvement in stress-responsive mechanisms. Further transactivation potential was checked for spliced variant of PsHsfA2a (PsHsfA2aI, PsHsfA2aII, and PsHsfA2aIII), PsHsfA3, PsHsfA6b, PsHsfA9, PsHsfB1a, and PsHsfB2a. Overall, these findings provide valuable insight into the evolutionary relationship of PsHsf gene family and their role in abiotic stress responses.
Strigolactones are a class of phytohormones that are involved in many different plant developmental processes, including the rhizobium-legume nodule symbiosis. Although both positive and negative effects of strigolactones on the number of nodules have been reported, the influence of strigolactones on nodule development is still unknown. Here, by means of the ramosus (rms) mutants of Pisum sativum (pea) cv Terese, we investigated the impact of strigolactone biosynthesis (rms1 and rms5) and signaling (rms3 and rms4) mutants on nodule growth. The rms mutants had more red, that is, functional, and larger nodules than the wild-type plants. Additionally, the increased nitrogen fixation and senescence zones with consequently reduced meristematic and infection zones indicated that the rms nodules developed faster than the wild-type nodules. An enhanced expression of the nodule zone-specific molecular markers for meristem activity and senescence supported the enlarged, fast maturing nodules. Interestingly, the master nodulation regulator, NODULE INCEPTION, NIN, was strongly induced in nodules of all rms mutants but not prior to inoculation. Determination of sugar levels with both bulk and spatial metabolomics in roots and nodules, respectively, hints at slightly increased malic acid levels early during nodule primordia formation and reduced sugar levels at later stages, possibly the consequence of an increased carbon usage of the enlarged nodules, contributing to the enhanced senescence. Taken together, these results suggest that strigolactones regulate the development of nodules, which is probably mediated through NIN, and available plant sugars.
Plants simultaneously interact with belowground symbionts such as arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi and aboveground antagonists such as aphids. Generally, plants gain access to valuable resources including nutrients and water through the AM symbiosis and are more resistant to pests. Nevertheless, aphids' performance improves on mycorrhizal plants, and it remains unclear whether a more nutritious food source and/or attenuated defenses are the contributing factors. This study examined the shoot and root transcriptome of barrel medic (Medicago truncatula Gaertn.) plants highly colonized by the AM fungus Rhizophagus irregularis (Blaszk., Wubet, Renker, and Buscot) C. Walker and A. Schüßler (Glomerales: Glomeraceae) and exposed to 7 days of mixed age pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris)) herbivory. The RNA-seq samples chosen for this study showed that aphids were heavier when fed mycorrhizal plants compared to nonmycorrhizal plants. We hypothesized that (i) insect-related plant defense pathways will be downregulated in shoots of mycorrhizal plants with aphids compared to nonmycorrhizal plants with aphids; (ii) pathways involved in nutrient acquisition, carbohydrate-related and amino acid transport will be upregulated in shoots of mycorrhizal plants with aphids compared to nonmycorrhizal plants with aphids; and (iii) roots of mycorrhizal plants with aphids will exhibit mycorrhiza-induced resistance. The transcriptome data revealed that the gene repertoire related to defenses, nutrient transport, and carbohydrates differs between nonmycorrhizal and mycorrhizal plants with aphids, which could explain the weight gain in aphids. We also identified novel candidate genes that are differentially expressed in nonmycorrhizal plants with aphids, thus setting the stage for future functional studies.
The main aim of this study was to understand the regulation of the biosynthesis of phytohormones as signaling molecules in the defense mechanisms of pea seedlings during the application of abiotic and biotic stress factors. It was important to identify this regulation at the molecular level in
Plant cell walls are embedded in a pectin matrix which is physically linked with the wall-associated kinases (WAKs), a subfamily of receptor-like kinases that participate in the cell wall integrity (CWI) sensing. Since cell walls are also the main binding sites for boron (B) and aluminum (Al), WAK may be potentially associated with the regulation of plant responses to Al toxicity and B deficiency. Using pea as a model species, we have identified a total of 28 WAK genes in the genome and named them according to its chromosomal location. All the PsWAKs were phylogenetically grouped into three clades. Phylogenetic relationship and synteny analysis showed that the PsWAKs in pea and Glycine max or Medicago truncatula shared a relatively conserved evolutionary history. Protein domain, motif, and transmembrane analysis indicated that all PsWAK proteins were predicted to be localized to the plasma membrane, and most PsWAKs shared a similar structure to their homologs. The RNA-seq data showed that the expression pattern of WAK genes in response to B deficiency was similar to that of Al toxicity, with most of PsWAKs being up-regulated. The qRT-PCR results further confirmed that PsWAK5, PsWAK9 and PsWAK14 were more specific for both B-deficiency and Al toxicity, and the expression levels of PsWAK5, PsWAK9 and PsWAK14 were significantly higher in the Al-sensitive cultivar Hyogo than in the Al-resistant cultivar Alaska under Al toxicity. This study provided an important basis for the functional and evolutionary analysis of PsWAKs and linked them to responses to cell wall damage induced by B-deficiency and Al toxicity, suggesting that PsWAKs may play a key role in the perception of cell wall integrity under Al toxicity or B-deficiency, as well as in the regulation of Al tolerance in pea.
The previous documentation has shown the role of resistant starch in promoting intestinal health, while the effect of starch-lipid complex (RS5) on colitis remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the effect and potential mechanism of RS5 in colitis. We prepared RS5 complexes by combining pea starch with lauric acid. Mice with dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis were treated with either RS5 (3.25 g/kg) or normal saline (10 mL/kg) for seven days, and the effects of pea starch-lauric acid complex on mice were observed. The RS5 treatment significantly attenuated weight loss, splenomegaly, colon shortening, and pathological damage in mice with colitis. Compare with the DSS group, cytokines levels, such as tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 in both serum and colon tissue was significantly decreased in RS5 treatment group, while the gene expression of
AP2/ERF (APETALA2/Ethylene Response Factor) is a family of transcription factors that play essential roles in regulating gene expression in response to various environmental stimuli, including biotic and abiotic stresses, hormone signaling, and developmental processes. Pisum sativum (L.), commonly known as garden pea, is a winter crop sensitive to high temperatures and can also be affected by extreme cold and drought conditions. This study performed a genome-wide analysis of AP2/ERF genes and identified 153 AP2/ERF genes in P. sativum. Based on the conserved AP2/ERF domain and sequence homology, they were classified into AP2 (APETALA2), ERF (Ethylene Response Factor), DREB (Dehydration responsive element-binding), RAV (Related to Abscisic Acid Insensitive 3/ Viviparous 1) and Soloist subfamily. The DREB and ERF subfamily were further divided into groups A1-6 and B1-B6. Tandem and segmental duplication events were more frequent in the ERF subfamily, which can have important implications for their evolution and functional diversification. Under cold stress, the expression of DREB1A was highly induced in leaves, whereas DREB1B was suppressed. Similarly, the DREB2A, DREB2C, DREB2E, and DREB2F were induced in leaves under drought stress. The putative target genes of AP2/ERF transcription factors are highly diversified, suggesting that they play essential roles in various physiological responses in plants, including responses to biotic and abiotic stresses as well as developmental processes. Thus, this study of AP2/ERF genes and their functions provides valuable insight into how P. sativum responds to different environmental conditions, including cold and drought stresses.
MYB transcriptional regulators belong to one of the most significant transcription factors families in plants, among which R2R3-MYB transcription factors are involved in plant growth and development, hormone signal transduction, and stress response. Two R2R3-MYB transcription factors, FLP and its paralogous AtMYB88, redundantly regulate the symmetrical division of guard mother cells (GMCs), and abiotic stress response in Arabidopsis thaliana. Only one orthologue gene of FLP was identified in pea (Pisum sativum FLP; PsFLP). In this study, we explored the gene function of PsFLP by virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) technology. The phenotypic analysis displayed that the silencing of PsFLP expression led to the abnormal development of stomata and the emergence of multiple guard cells tightly united. In addition, the abnormal stomata of flp could be fully rescued by PsFLP driven by the FLP promoter. In conclusion, the results showed that PsFLP plays a conservative negative role in regulating the symmetric division of GMC during stomatal development. Based on real-time quantitative PCR, the relative expressions of AAO3, NCED3, and SnRK2.3 significantly increased in the flp pFLP::PsFLP plants compared to mutant, indicating that PsFLP might be involved in drought stress response. Thus, PsFLP regulates the genes related to cell cycle division during the stomatal development of peas and participates in response to drought stress. The study provides a basis for further research on its function and application in leguminous crop breeding.
Faba bean is an important legume crop consumed as a vegetable or snack food, and its green cotyledons could present an attractive color for consumers. A mutation in
The MADS-box gene family is widely distributed in higher plants and the members of the angiosperm-specific APETALA1/FRUITFULL (AP1/FUL) subfamily plays important roles in the regulation of plant reproductive development. Recent studies revealed that the AP1/FUL subfamily member Dt2, VEGETATIVE1/PsFRUITFULc (VEG1/PsFULc) and MtFRUITFULc (MtFULc) are essential for the stem growth, branching and inflorescence development in legume species soybean (Glycine max), pea (Pisum sativum) and Medicago truncatula. However, the biological function of their homologue in Arabidopsis thaliana, AGAMOUS-LIKE 79 (AGL79), has not been well elucidated. In this study, we investigated the developmental roles of Arabidopsis AGL79 by CRISPR/Cas9-mutagenesis and molecular and physiological analyses. We found that AGL79 mainly acts as a transcriptional repressor and positively regulates Arabidopsis flowering time. We further revealed that AGL79 interacts with SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CO1 (SOC1) and represses the expression of TERMINAL FLOWER 1 (TFL1). Our results demonstrated the AGL79-mediated flowering regulation in Arabidopsis and added an additional layer of complexity to the understanding of flowering time regulation in dicot plants.
Continuous cropping is a significant obstacle to sustainable development in the pea (Pisum sativum L.) industry, but the underlying mechanisms of this remain unclear. In this study, we used 16 S rDNA sequencing, transcriptomics, and metabolomics to analyze the response mechanism of roots and soil bacteria to continuous cropping and the relationship between soil bacteria and root phenotypes of different pea genotypes (Ding wan 10 and Yun wan 8). Continuous cropping inhibited pea growth, with a greater effect on Ding wan 10 than Yun wan 8. Metabolomics showed that the number of differentially accumulated metabolites (DAMs) in pea roots increased with the number of continuous cropping, and more metabolic pathways were involved. Transcriptomics revealed that the number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) increased with the number of continuous cropping. Continuous cropping altered the expression of genes involved in plant-pathogen interaction, MAPK signal transduction, and lignin synthesis pathways in pea roots, with more DEGs in Ding wan 10 than in Yun wan 8. The up-regulated expression of genes in the ethylene signal transduction pathway was evident in Ding wan 10. Soil bacterial diversity did not change, but the relative abundance of bacteria significantly responded to continuous cropping. Integrative analysis showed that the bacteria with significant relative abundance in the soil were strongly associated with the antioxidant synthesis and linoleic acid metabolism pathway of pea roots under continuous cropping once. Under continuous cropping twice, the bacteria with significant relative abundance changes were strongly associated with cysteine and methionine metabolism, fatty acid metabolism, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, terpenoid backbone biosynthesis, linoleic acid, and amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism. Ding wan 10 was more sensitive to continuous cropping than Yun wan 8. Continuous cropping times and pea genotypes determined the differences in root metabolic pathways. There were common metabolic pathways in the two pea genotypes in response to continuous cropping, and the DEGs and DAMs in these metabolic pathways were strongly associated with the bacteria with significant changes in relative abundance in the soil. This study provides new insights into obstacles to continuous cropping in peas.
Abiotic stresses, including salinity stress, affect numerous crops, causing yield reduction, and, as a result, important economic losses. Extracts from the brown alga
Since chitooligosaccharides (COs) are water-soluble, biodegradable and nontoxic compounds, their application may be considered as a promising plant-protecting agent. However, the molecular and cellular modes of action of COs are not yet understood. In this study, transcriptional changes in pea roots treated with COs were investigated
Wing dimorphism in insects is an evolutionarily adaptive trait to maximize insect fitness under various environments, by which the population could be balanced between dispersing and reproduction. Most studies concern the regulatory mechanisms underlying the stimulation of wing morph in aphids, but relatively little research addresses the molecular basis of wing loss. Here, we found that, while developing normally in winged-destined pea aphids, the wing disc in wingless-destined aphids degenerated 30-hr postbirth and that this degeneration was due to autophagy rather than apoptosis. Activation of autophagy in first instar nymphs reduced the proportion of winged aphids, and suppression of autophagy increased the proportion.
Regulation of plant hormonal status is one of the major targets of symbiotic signaling during nodule formation in legume plants. However, the genetic and hormonal networks that regulate transition to differentiation of nodules are not well-characterized in legume plants. Analysis of plant mutants forming nodules impaired in rhizobial infection allowed us to identify some regulators involved in the control of the later stages of nodule development. In the current work, we extend our earlier studies on the influence of exogenously applied cytokinin on the later stages of nodule morphogenesis using pea
Many insects exhibit diel rhythms in physiology and behavior, driven by an endogenous circadian clock. Although aphids are paradigmatic insects whose photoperiodic time measurement is based on a heavily damped circadian clock, there is a lack of empirical data on such a damped circadian clock. The present study investigated the temporal distribution of hatching and the temporal expression patterns of circadian clock genes in the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum under light-dark (LD) cycles and constant darkness (DD). Hatching occurred intensively in the early photophase, and this rhythm persisted under LD cycles, but damped under DD for a few days. Of the six clock genes analyzed, cyc showed a temporal change in expression under LD cycles, whereas this temporal change was lost under DD. These results suggest that the circadian clock of A. pisum is easily damped during the embryonic stage, supporting the heavily damped oscillator model in photoperiodic time measurement of aphids.
Flavonoids are important secondary metabolites in the plant growth and development process. As a medicinal plant, pigeon pea is rich in secondary metabolites. As a flavonoid, there are few studies on the regulation mechanism of naringenin in plant stress resistance. In our study, we found that naringenin can increase the pigeon pea's ability to tolerate salt and influence the changes that occur in flavonoids including naringenin, genistein and biochanin A. We analyzed the transcriptome data after 1 mM naringenin treatment, and identified a total of 13083 differentially expressed genes. By analyzing the metabolic pathways of these differentially expressed genes, we found that these differentially expressed genes were enriched in the metabolic pathways of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, starch and sucrose metabolism and so on. We focused on the analysis of flavonoid biosynthesis related pathways. Among them, the expression levels of enzyme genes CcIFS, CcCHI and CcCHS in the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway had considerably higher expression levels. By counting the number of transcription factors and the binding sites on the promoter of the enzyme gene, we screened the transcription factors CcMYB62 and CcbHLH35 related to flavonoid metabolism. Among them, CcMYB62 has a higher expression level than the others. The hairy root transgene showed that CcMYB62 could induce the upregulation of CcCHI, and promote the accumulation of naringenin, genistein and biochanin A. Our study revealed the molecular mechanism of naringenin regulating flavonoid biosynthesis under salt stress in pigeon pea, and provided an idea for the role of flavonoids in plant resistance to abiotic stresses.
The inhibition of shoot branching by the growing shoot tip of plants, termed apical dominance, was originally thought to be mediated by auxin. Recently, the importance of the shoot tip sink strength during apical dominance has re-emerged with recent studies highlighting roles for sugars in promoting branching. This raises many unanswered questions on the relative roles of auxin and sugars in apical dominance. Here we show that auxin depletion after decapitation is not always the initial trigger of rapid cytokinin (CK) increases in buds that are instead correlated with enhanced sugars. Auxin may also act through strigolactones (SLs) which have been shown to suppress branching after decapitation, but here we show that SLs do not have a significant effect on initial bud outgrowth after decapitation. We report here that when sucrose or CK is abundant, SLs are less inhibitory during the bud release stage compared to during later stages and that SL treatment rapidly inhibits CK accumulation in pea (Pisum sativum) axillary buds of intact plants. After initial bud release, we find an important role of gibberellin (GA) in promoting sustained bud growth downstream of auxin. We are, therefore, able to suggest a model of apical dominance that integrates auxin, sucrose, SLs, CKs, and GAs and describes differences in signalling across stages of bud release to sustained growth.
Pea is a conventional grain-feed-grass crop in Tibet and the only high-protein legume in the region; therefore, it plays an important role in Tibetan food and grass security. Zinc finger-homeodomain (ZF-HD) belongs to a family of homozygous heterotypic cassette genes, which play an important role in plant growth, development, and response to adversity stress. Using a bioinformatics approach, 18 PsZF-HD family members were identified. These genes were distributed across seven chromosomes and two scaffold fragments, and evolutionary analysis classified them into two subgroups, MIF and ZHD. The MIF subgroup was subdivided into three subclasses (PsMIFⅠ-III), and the ZHD subgroup was subdivided into five subclasses (ZHDⅠ-V). The PsZF-HD members were named PsMIF1-PsMIF4 and PsZHD1-PsZHD14. Twelve conserved motifs and four conserved domains were identified from PsZF-HD family, of which MIF subgroup only contained one domain, while ZHD subgroup contained two types of domains. In addition, there were significant differences in the three-dimensional structures of the protein members of the two subgroups. Most PsZF-HD genes had no introns (13/18), and only five genes had one intron. Forty-five cis-acting elements were predicted and screened, involving four categories: light response, stress, hormone, and growth and development. Transcriptome analysis of different tissues during pea growth and development showed that
Ascochyta blight caused by Ascochyta pisi is a major constraint to pea (Pisum sativum L.) production worldwide. Deciphering the pathogenic mechanism of
Nowadays, many researchers, farmers and companies focus on the development of an environmentally friendly approach for enhancing field vegetable production and protection. Using next-generation plant biostimulants (PBs) could be effective to enhance tolerance to abiotic and biotic stresses, vegetable crop quality or nutrient efficiency which is particularly important for vegetables with a short growing season, such as
Compared to other insects, the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum has a reduced immune system with an absence of genes coding for a lot of immunity-related molecules. Notably, nitric oxide synthase (NOS), which catalyses the synthesis of nitric oxide (NO), is present in the pea aphid. However, the role of NO in the immune system of pea aphid remains unclear. In this study, we explored the role of NO in the defence of the pea aphid against bacterial infections and found that the NOS gene of the pea aphid responded to an immune challenge, with the expression of ApNOS observably upregulated after bacterial infections. Knockdown of ApNOS using RNA interference or inhibition of NOS activity increased the number of live bacterial cells in aphids and the mortality of aphids after bacterial infection. Conversely, the increase in NO level in aphids using NO donor inhibited the bacterial growth, increased the survival of bacteria-infected aphids, and upregulated immune genes, such as Toll pathway and phagocytosis related genes. Thus, NO promotes immune responses and plays an important role in the immune system of pea aphid.
Recent findings revealed that low-concentration paclitaxel(DTX) could enhance cytotoxicity by upregulating p53 expression in lung cancer cell lines. So, co-delivery of DTX and RFP-p53 gene with PEA nanoparticles (NPs) was studied. The prepared DTX loaded PEA NPs (PEA/DTX) were characterized by particle size distribution, morphology, zeta potential, and crystallography and cytotoxicity. Results showed that the PEA/DTX NPs had a mall particle size (≤100 nm), moderate zeta potential (≥40 mV) and drug loading of 9.0%, DTX was released from PEA/DTX NPs in an extended period
Ascochyta blight is one of the most destructive diseases in field pea and is caused by either individual or combined infections by the necrotrophic pathogens
Peyronellaea pinodes is a devastating pathogen of pea crop. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with resistance have been identified, as well as genes differentially expressed between resistant and susceptible pea lines. The key question is which of these many genes located into these QTLs, or differentially expressed, are the key genes that distinguish resistant from susceptible plants and could be used as markers. To identify these key genes, in the present study we applied MACE (Massive Analysis of cDNA Ends) -Seq to a whole Recombinant Inbred Line population segregating for resistance to this disease and their parental lines and identified those genes which expression was more correlated with the level of resistance. We also compared gene expression profiles between the most resistant and the most susceptible families of the RIL population. A total of 6780 transcripts were differentially expressed between the parental lines after inoculation. Of them, 803 showed the same expression pattern in the bulks formed by the most resistant and most susceptible RIL families. These genes, showing a consistent expression pattern, could be used as expression markers to distinguish resistant from susceptible plants. The analysis of these genes also discovered the crucial mechanisms acting against P. pinodes.
Broad diversity of flowers in Fabaceae provides a good system to investigate development and evolution of floral symmetry in higher plants. Many studies have demonstrated a conserved mechanism controlling development of zygomorphic flower during last decades. However, the molecular basis of how asymmetric flower established is largely unknown. In this study, we characterized mutants named
Medicago truncatula NODULE ROOT1 (MtNOOT1) and Pisum sativum COCHLEATA1 (PsCOCH1) are orthologous genes belonging to the NOOT-BOP-COCH-LIKE (NBCL) gene family which encodes key transcriptional co-regulators of plant development. In Mtnoot1 and Pscoch1 mutants, the development of stipules, flowers, and symbiotic nodules is altered. MtNOOT2 and PsCOCH2 represent the single paralogues of MtNOOT1 and PsCOCH1, respectively. In M. truncatula, MtNOOT1 and MtNOOT2 are both required for the establishment and maintenance of symbiotic nodule identity. In legumes, the role of NBCL2 in above-ground development is not known. To better understand the roles of NBCL genes in legumes, we used M. truncatula and P. sativum nbcl mutants, isolated a knockout mutant for the PsCOCH2 locus and generated Pscoch1coch2 double mutants in P. sativum. Our work shows that single Mtnoot2 and Pscoch2 mutants develop wild-type stipules, flowers, and symbiotic nodules. However, the number of flowers was increased and the pods and seeds were smaller compared to the wild type. Furthermore, in comparison to the corresponding nbcl1 single mutants, both the M. truncatula and P. sativum nbcl double mutants show a drastic alteration in stipule, inflorescence, flower, and nodule development. Remarkably, in both M. truncatula and P. sativum nbcl double mutants, stipules are transformed into a range of aberrant leaf-like structures.
Various legume plants form root nodules in which symbiotic bacteria (rhizobia) fix atmospheric nitrogen after differentiation into a symbiotic form named bacteroids. In some legume species, bacteroid differentiation is promoted by defensin-like nodule-specific cysteine-rich (NCR) peptides. NCR peptides have best been studied in the model legume
Different essential viral proteins are translated via programmed stop codon readthrough. Pea enation mosaic virus 1 (PEMV1) and potato leafroll virus (PLRV) are related positive-sense RNA plant viruses in the family Solemoviridae, and are type members of the Enamovirus and Polerovirus genera, respectively. Both use translational readthrough to express a C-terminally extended minor capsid protein (CP), termed CP-readthrough domain (CP-RTD), from a viral subgenomic mRNA that is transcribed during infections. Limited incorporation of CP-RTD subunits into virus particles is essential for aphid transmission, however the functional readthrough structures that mediate CP-RTD translation have not yet been defined. Through RNA solution structure probing, RNA secondary structure modeling, site-directed mutagenesis, and functional in vitro and in vivo analyses, we have investigated in detail the readthrough elements and complex structure involved in expression of CP-RTD in PEMV1, and assessed and deduced a comparatively simpler readthrough structure for PLRV. Collectively, this study has (i) generated the first higher-order RNA structural models for readthrough elements in an enamovirus and a polerovirus, (ii) revealed a stark contrast in the complexity of readthrough structures in these two related viruses, (iii) provided compelling experimental evidence for the strict requirement for long-distance RNA-RNA interactions in generating the active readthrough signals, (iv) uncovered what could be considered the most complex readthrough structure reported to date, that for PEMV1, and (v) proposed plausible assembly pathways for the formation of the elaborate PEMV1 and simple PLRV readthrough structures. These findings notably advance our understanding of this essential mode of gene expression in these agriculturally important plant viruses.
To ensure the success of phytoremediation, it is important to consider the appropriate combination of plants and microorganisms. This study was conducted to get a better insight into the underlying molecular and biochemical mechanism of grass pea (Lathyrus sativus L.) induced by plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR), when exposed for 3, 6, 9, and 14 days to 1 mM Pb in a hydroponic system. The significant positive effect of bacterial inoculation was reproduced in various parameters. Results indicated that inoculation of PGPR significantly increased the accumulation of Pb by 20%, 66%, 43%, and 36% in roots and by 46%, 55%, 37%, and 46% in shoots, respectively after 3, 6, 9, and 14 days of metal exposure compared to the uninoculated plants. The metal accumulation in grass pea plants triggered a significant elevation in the synthesis of non-protein thiols (NPT), particularly in inoculated plant leaves where it was about 3 and 2-fold higher than the uninoculated set on the 6
Stipule morphology is a classical botanical key character used in plant identification. Stipules are considerably diverse in size, function and architecture, such as leaf-like stipules, spines or tendrils. However, the molecular mechanism that regulates stipule identity remains largely unknown. We isolated mutants with abnormal stipules. The mutated gene encodes the NODULE ROOT1 (MtNOOT1), which is the ortholog of BLADE-ON-PETIOLE (BOP) in Medicago truncatula. We also obtained mutants of MtNOOT2, the homolog of MtNOOT1, but they do not show obvious defects in stipules. The mtnoot1 mtnoot2 double mutant shows a higher proportion of transformation from stipules to leaflet-like stipules than the single mutants, suggesting that they redundantly determine stipule identity. Further investigations show that MtNOOTs control stipule initiation together with SINGLE LEAFLET1 (SGL1), which functions in development of lateral leaflets. Increasing SGL1 activity in mtnoot1 mtnoot2 is sufficient for the transformation of stipules to leaves. Moreover, MtNOOTs inhibit SGL1 expression during stipule development, which is probably conserved in legume species. Our study proposes a genetic regulatory model for stipule development, specifically with regard to the MtNOOTs-SGL1 module, which functions in two phases of stipule development, first in the control of stipule initiation and second in stipule patterning.
The present study compared the modulatory effects of different resistant starches (RSs) isolated from native (NP-RS), acid-hydrolyzed (AHP-RS), and pullulanase debranched (PDP-RS) pea starches on the corresponding
Although tannins are widely distributed in broad beans and alfalfa, the pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum) can still destroy them. The ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporters participate in the metabolism of plant secondary metabolites and pesticides in insects. However, whether ABC transporter genes play a role in the metabolism of tannins in the pea aphid is unclear. Here, we found that verapamil (an ABC transporter inhibitor) significantly increased the mortality of tannic acid to pea aphid, which indicated that ABC transporter gene was related to the metabolism of tannic acid by pea aphid. Then, we identified 54 putative ABC transporter genes from the genome database of A. pisum. These genes were divided into eight subfamilies, ApABCA to ApABCH, of which subfamily G has the largest number of genes with 19, followed by the subfamily C with 14. RT-qPCR results show that the expression levels of ApABCA2, ApABCC7, ApABCG2, and ApABCG3 were highly expressed in the first instar, while those of ApABCA3, ApABCG6, ApABCG7, ApABCH3, and ApABCH4 were highly expressed in adults. Furthermore, transcription levels of many ABC transporter genes were induced by tannic acid. Especially, ApABCG17 and ApABCH2 were obviously induced after being exposed to tannic acid. Meanwhile, knockdown of ApABCG17 by RNA interference resulted in increased sensitivity of pea aphid to tannic acid. These results suggest that ApABCG17 may be involved in tannic acid metabolism in pea aphid. This study will help us to understand the mechanism of tannic acid metabolism in pea aphid, and provides a basis for further research on the physiological function of ABC transporter genes in pea aphid.
Biotic and abiotic stress tolerant crops are required for sustainable agriculture as well as ensuring global food security. In a previous study, we have reported that heterologous overexpression of pea DNA helicase (PDH45), a DEAD-box family member protein, provides salinity stress tolerance in rice. The improved management of photosynthetic machinery and scavenging of reactive oxygen species (ROS) are associated with PDH45 mediated salinity stress tolerance. However, the role of PDH45 in biotic and other abiotic stress (drought) tolerance remains unexplored. In the present study, we have generated marker-free transgenic IR64 rice lines that overexpress PDH45 under the CaMV35S promoter. The transgenic rice lines exhibited a significant level of tolerance against sheath blight disease, caused by Rhizoctonia solani, a polyphagous necrotrophic fungal pathogen. The defense as well as antioxidant responsive marker genes were significantly upregulated in the PDH45 overexpressing (OE) rice lines, upon pathogen infection. Moreover, the OE lines exhibited tolerance to drought stress and various antioxidant as well as drought responsive marker genes were significantly upregulated in them, upon drought stress. Overall, the current study emphasizes that heterologous overexpression of PDH45 provides abiotic as well as biotic stress tolerance in rice. Tolerance against drought as well as sheath blight disease by overexpression of a single gene (PDH45) signifies the practical implication of the present study. Moreover, considering the conserved nature of the gene in different plant species, we anticipate that PDH45 can be gainfully deployed to impart tolerance against multiple stresses in agriculturally important crops.
(1) Background: Cold stress affects growth and development in plants and is a major environmental factor that decreases productivity. Over the past two decades, the advent of next generation sequencing (NGS) technologies has opened new opportunities to understand the molecular bases of stress resistance by enabling the detection of weakly expressed transcripts and the identification of regulatory RNAs of gene expression, including microRNAs (miRNAs). (2) Methods: In this study, we performed time series sRNA and mRNA sequencing experiments on two pea (
The question of the heritability of behavior has been of long fascination to scientists and the broader public. It is now widely accepted that most behavioral variation has a genetic component, although the degree of genetic influence differs widely across behaviors. Starting with Mendel's remarkable discovery of "inheritance factors," it has become increasingly clear that specific genetic variants that influence behavior can be identified. This goal is not without its challenges: Unlike pea morphology, most natural behavioral variation has a complex genetic architecture. However, we can now apply powerful genome-wide approaches to connect variation in DNA to variation in behavior as well as analyses of behaviorally related variation in brain gene expression, which together have provided insights into both the genetic mechanisms underlying behavior and the dynamic relationship between genes and behavior, respectively, in a wide range of species and for a diversity of behaviors. Here, we focus on two systems to illustrate both of these approaches: the genetic basis of burrowing in deer mice and transcriptomic analyses of division of labor in honey bees. Finally, we discuss the troubled relationship between the field of behavioral genetics and eugenics, which reminds us that we must be cautious about how we discuss and contextualize the connections between genes and behavior, especially in humans.
The seed-to-seedling transition is a crucial step in the plant life cycle. The transition occurs at the end of seed germination and corresponds to the initiation of embryonic root growth. To improve our understanding of how a seed transforms into a seedling, we germinated the
To address the demand for food by a rapidly growing human population, agricultural scientists have carried out both plant breeding and genetic engineering research. Previously, we reported that the constitutive expression of a pea apyrase (Nucleoside triphosphate, diphosphohydrolase) gene, psNTP9, under the control of the CaMV35S promoter, resulted in soybean plants with an expanded root system architecture, enhanced drought resistance and increased seed yield when they are grown in greenhouses under controlled conditions. Here, we report that psNTP9-expressing soybean lines also show significantly enhanced seed yields when grown in multiple different field conditions at multiple field sites, including when the gene is introgressed into elite germplasm. The transgenic lines have higher leaf chlorophyll and soluble protein contents and decreased stomatal density and cuticle permeability, traits that increase water use efficiency and likely contribute to the increased seed yields of field-grown plants. These altered properties are explained, in part, by genome-wide gene expression changes induced by the transgene.
Aphids exhibit wing polyphenism. Winged and wingless aphid morphs are produced by parthenogenesis depending on population density and host plant quality. Recent studies showed that microRNAs in alate and apterous individuals have differential expression and are involved in wing dimorphism of Acyrthosiphon pisum. From which miR-92a-1-p5 can target the mRNA of flight muscle gene flightin in vitro, but what effect they have on wing development of aphid is unclear. Here with the nanocarrier-delivered RNA interference (RNAi) method, flightin gene was knocked down in winged nymphs of A. pisum. Results showed that the majority (63.33%) of adults had malformed wings, the shape of dorsal longitudinal muscle (DLM) was deformed severely, the dorsoventral flight muscle (DVM) became wider and looser in aphids with flightin reduction compared with the negative control. Overexpression of miR-92a-1-p5 caused decreased expression of flightin and malformed wings of aphids, with a mutant ratio of 62.50%. Morphological analysis of flight musculature showed the consistent result as that with flightin knockdown. These results suggest that flightin is essential for flight musculature formation and wing extension in A. pisum, which can be modulated by miR-92a-1-p5.
Seed coats serve as protective tissue to the enclosed embryo. As well as mechanical there are also chemical defence functions. During domestication, the property of the seed coat was altered including the removal of the seed dormancy. We used a range of genetic, transcriptomic, proteomic and metabolomic approaches to determine the function of the pea seed polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene. Sequencing analysis revealed one nucleotide insertion or deletion in the PPO gene, with the functional PPO allele found in all wild pea samples, while most cultivated peas have one of the three nonfunctional ppo alleles. PPO functionality cosegregates with hilum pigmentation. PPO gene and protein expression, as well as enzymatic activity, was downregulated in the seed coats of cultivated peas. The functionality of the PPO gene relates to the oxidation and polymerisation of gallocatechin in the seed coat. Additionally, imaging mass spectrometry supports the hypothesis that hilum pigmentation is conditioned by the presence of both phenolic precursors and sufficient PPO activity. Taken together these results indicate that the nonfunctional polyphenol oxidase gene has been selected during pea domestication, possibly due to better seed palatability or seed coat visual appearance.
Germinated pigeon pea seeds (GPPSs) are good dietary supplements with satisfactory nutritional and medicinal values. In this study, UV-B treatment was used to promote the accumulation of health-promoting phenolic compounds (10 flavonoids and 1 stilbene) in GPPS. The total yield of 11 phenolic compounds (235 839.76 ± 17 118.24 ng/g DW) significantly improved (2.53-fold increase) in GPPSs exposed to UV-B radiation (3 W/m
In this study, the roles of glutathione (GSH), homoglutathione (hGSH), and their ratio in symbiotic nodule development and functioning, as well as in defense responses accompanying ineffective nodulation in pea (
Auxins regulate many aspects of plant growth and development. In pea, three of the five TIR1/AFB members (PsTIR1a, PsTIR1b, and PsAFB2) have been implicated in auxin-related responses during fruit/seed development; however, the roles of PsAFB4 and PsAFB6 in these processes are unknown. Using yeast two-hybrid assays, we found that all five pea TIR1/AFB receptor proteins interacted with the pea AUX/IAAs PsIAA6 and/or PsIAA7 in an auxin-dependent manner, a requirement for functional auxin receptors. All five auxin receptors are expressed in young ovaries (pericarps) and rapidly developing seeds, with overlapping and unique developmental and hormone-regulated gene expression patterns. Pericarp PsAFB6 expression was suppressed by seeds and increased in response to deseeding, and exogenous hormone treatments suggest that seed-derived auxin and deseeding-induced ethylene are involved in these responses, respectively. Ethylene-induced elevation of pericarp PsAFB6 expression was associated with 4-Cl-IAA-specific reduction in ethylene responsiveness. In developing seeds, expression of PsTAR2 and PsYUC10 auxin biosynthesis genes was associated with high auxin levels in seed coat and cotyledon tissues, and PsAFB2 dominated the seed tissue transcript pool. Overall, auxin receptors had overlapping and unique developmental and hormone-regulated gene expression patterns during fruit/seed development, suggesting mediation of diverse responses to auxin, with PsAFB6 linking auxin and ethylene signaling.
Invertases are key enzymes for carbon metabolism, cleaving sucrose into energy-rich and signaling metabolites, glucose and fructose. Invertases play pivotal roles in development and stress response, determining yield and quality of seed production. In this context, the repertoire of invertase gene families is critically scarce in legumes. Here, we performed a systematic search for invertase families in 16 Fabaceae genomes. For instance, we identified 19 invertase genes in the model plant Medicago and 17 accessions in the agronomic crop Pisum sativum. Our comprehensive phylogenetic analysis sets a milestone for the scientific community as we propose a new nomenclature to correctly name plant invertases. Thus, neutral invertases were classified into four clades of cytosolic invertase (CINV). Acid invertases were classified into two cell wall invertase clades (CWINV) and two vacuolar invertase clades (VINV). Then, we explored transcriptional regulation of the pea invertase family, focusing on seed development and water stress. Invertase expression decreased sharply from embryogenesis to seed-filling stages, consistent with higher sucrose and lower monosaccharide contents. The vacuolar invertase PsVINV1.1 clearly marked the transition between both developmental stages. We hypothesize that the predominantly expressed cell wall invertase, PsCWINV1.2, may drive sucrose unloading towards developing seeds. The same candidates, PsVINV1.1 and PsCWINV1.2, were also regulated by water deficit during embryonic stage. We suggest that PsVINV1.1 along with vacuolar sugar transporters maintain cellular osmotic pressure and PsCWINV1.2 control hexose provision, thereby ensuring embryo survival in drought conditions. Altogether, our findings provide novel insights into the regulation of plant carbon metabolism in a challenging environment.
The present study was conducted to evaluate the effects of silicon (Si) and nano-silicon (NSi) on growth, yield, ions content, and antioxidant defense systems, including transcript levels of enzyme-encoding genes in
The IPD3/CYCLOPS transcription factor was shown to be involved in the regulation of nodule primordia development and subsequent stages of nodule differentiation. In contrast to early stages, the stages related to nodule differentiation remain less studied. Recently, we have shown that the accumulation of cytokinin at later stages may significantly impact nodule development. This conclusion was based on a comparative analysis of cytokinin localization between pea wild type and
The exopolysaccharide (EPS) Pea is essential for wrinkly colony morphology, pellicle formation, and robust biofilm production in Pseudomonas putida. The second messenger cyclic diguanylate monophosphate (c-di-GMP) induces wrinkly colony morphology in P. putida through an unknown mechanism(s). Herein, we found that c-di-GMP modulates wrinkly colony morphology via the regulation of expression of
Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) are the most widely used nanomaterial in agricultural and environmental applications. In this study, the impact of AgNPs solutions at 20 mg/L, 40 mg/L, 80 mg/L, and 160 mg/L on cell ultrastructure have been examined in pea (Pisum sativum L) using a transmission electron microscope (TEM). The effect of AgNPs treatments on the α, β esterase (EST), and peroxidase (POX) enzymes expression as well as gain or loss of inter-simple sequence repeats (ISSRs) markers has been described. Different structural malformations in the cell wall and mitochondria, as well as plasmolysis and vacuolation were recorded in root cells. Damaged chloroplast and mitochondria were frequently observed in leaves and the osmiophilic plastoglobuli were more observed as AgNPs concentration increased. Starch grains increased by the treatment with 20 mg/L AgNPs. The expressions of α, β EST, and POX were slightly changed but considerable polymorphism in ISSR profiles, using 17 different primers, were scored indicating gain or loss of gene loci as a result of AgNPs treatments. This indicates considerable variations in genomic DNA and point mutations that may be induced by AgNPs as a genotoxic nanomaterial. AgNPs may be used to induce genetic variation at low concentrations. However, considerations should be given to the uncontrolled use of nanoparticles and calls for evaluating their impact on plant growth and potential genotoxicity are justified.
Salinity stress is one of the most serious environmental stresses which limit plant growth, development and productivity. In this study, we screened 25 bacterial isolates based on the biochemical activity of ACC deaminase. Two potent PGPR namely The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-021-03047-5.
Redox homeostasis has been linked to proper anther and pollen development. Accordingly, plant cells have developed several Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS)-scavenging mechanisms to maintain the redox balance. Hemopexins constitute one of these mechanisms preventing heme-associated oxidative stress in animals, fungi, and plants.
Field pea (Pisum sativum L.), a cool-season legume crop, is known for poor heat tolerance. Our previous work identified PR11-2 and PR11-90 as heat tolerant and susceptible lines in a recombinant inbred population. CDC Amarillo, a Canadian elite pea variety, was considered as another heat tolerant variety based on its similar field performance as PR11-2. This study aimed to characterize the differential transcription. Plants of these three varieties were stressed for 3 h at 38°C prior to self-pollination, and RNAs from heat stressed anthers and stipules on the same flowering node were extracted and sequenced via the Illumina NovaSeq platform for the characterization of heat responsive genes. In silico results were further validated by qPCR assay. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified at log2 |fold change (FC)| ≥ 2 between high temperature and control temperature, the three varieties shared 588 DEGs which were up-regulated and 220 genes which were down-regulated in anthers when subjected to heat treatment. In stipules, 879 DEGs (463/416 upregulation/downregulation) were consistent among varieties. The above heat-induced genes of the two plant organs were related to several biological processes i.e., response to heat, protein folding and DNA templated transcription. Ten gene ontology (GO) terms were over-represented in the consistently down-regulated DEGs of the two organs, and these terms were mainly related to cell wall macromolecule metabolism, lipid transport, lipid localization, and lipid metabolic processes. GO enrichment analysis on distinct DEGs of individual pea varieties suggested that heat affected biological processes were dynamic, and variety distinct responses provide insight into molecular mechanisms of heat-tolerance response. Several biological processes, e.g., cellular response to DNA damage stimulus in stipule, electron transport chain in anther that were only observed in heat induced PR11-2 and CDC Amarillo, and their relevance to field pea heat tolerance is worth further validation.
The fungal pathogen Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. pisi (Fop) causes Fusarium wilt in peas. There are four races globally: 1, 2, 5 and 6 and all of these races are present in Australia. Molecular infection mechanisms have been studied in a few other F. oxysporum formae speciales; however, there has been no transcriptomic Fop-pea pathosystem study. A transcriptomic study was carried out to understand the molecular pathogenicity differences between the races. Transcriptome analysis at 20 days post-inoculation revealed differences in the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the Fop races potentially involved in fungal pathogenicity variations. Most of the DEGs in all the races were engaged in transportation, metabolism, oxidation-reduction, translation, biosynthetic processes, signal transduction, proteolysis, among others. Race 5 expressed the most virulence-associated genes. Most genes encoding for plant cell wall degrading enzymes, CAZymes and effector-like proteins were expressed in race 2. Race 6 expressed the least number of genes at this time point. Fop races deploy various factors and complex strategies to mitigate host defences to facilitate colonisation. This investigation provides an overview of the putative pathogenicity genes in different Fop races during the necrotrophic stage of infection. These genes need to be functionally characterised to confirm their pathogenicity/virulence roles and the race-specific genes can be further explored for molecular characterisation.
Two decades ago, large cation currents were discovered in the envelope membranes of Pisum sativum L. (pea) chloroplasts. The deduced K+-permeable channel was coined fast-activating chloroplast cation channel but its molecular identity remained elusive. To reveal candidates, we mined proteomic datasets of isolated pea envelopes. Our search uncovered distant members of the nuclear POLLUX ion channel family. Since pea is not amenable to molecular genetics, we used Arabidopsis thaliana to characterize the two gene homologs. Using several independent approaches, we show that both candidates localize to the chloroplast envelope membrane. The proteins, designated PLASTID ENVELOPE ION CHANNELS (PEC1/2), form oligomers with regulator of K+ conductance domains protruding into the intermembrane space. Heterologous expression of PEC1/2 rescues yeast mutants deficient in K+ uptake. Nuclear POLLUX ion channels cofunction with Ca2+ channels to generate Ca2+ signals, critical for establishing mycorrhizal symbiosis and root development. Chloroplasts also exhibit Ca2+ transients in the stroma, probably to relay abiotic and biotic cues between plastids and the nucleus via the cytosol. Our results show that pec1pec2 loss-of-function double mutants fail to trigger the characteristic stromal Ca2+ release observed in wild-type plants exposed to external stress stimuli. Besides this molecular abnormality, pec1pec2 double mutants do not show obvious phenotypes. Future studies of PEC proteins will help to decipher the plant's stress-related Ca2+ signaling network and the role of plastids. More importantly, the discovery of PECs in the envelope membrane is another critical step towards completing the chloroplast ion transport protein inventory.
Size control is a fundamental question in biology, showing incremental complexity in plants, whose cells possess a rigid cell wall. The phytohormone auxin is a vital growth regulator with central importance for differential growth control. Our results indicate that auxin-reliant growth programs affect the molecular complexity of xyloglucans, the major type of cell wall hemicellulose in eudicots. Auxin-dependent induction and repression of growth coincide with reduced and enhanced molecular complexity of xyloglucans, respectively. In agreement with a proposed function in growth control, genetic interference with xyloglucan side decorations distinctly modulates auxin-dependent differential growth rates. Our work proposes that auxin-dependent growth programs have a spatially defined effect on xyloglucan's molecular structure, which in turn affects cell wall mechanics and specifies differential, gravitropic hypocotyl growth.
Raffinose, stachyose and verbascose form the three major members of the raffinose family oligosaccharides (RFO) accumulated during seed development. Raffinose synthase (RS; EC 2.4.1.82) and stachyose synthase (STS; EC 2.4.1.67) have been associated with raffinose and stachyose synthesis, but the precise mechanism for verbascose synthesis is not well understood. In this study, full-length RS (2.7 kb) and STS (2.6 kb) clones were isolated by screening a cDNA library prepared from developing lentil seeds (18, 20, 22 and 24 days after flowering [DAF]) to understand the roles of RS and STS in RFO accumulation in developing lentil seeds. The nucleotide sequences of RS and STS genes were similar to those reported for Pisum sativum. Patterns of transcript accumulation, enzyme activities and RFO concentrations were also comparable to P. sativum. However, during lentil seed development raffinose, stachyose and verbascose accumulation corresponded to transcript accumulation for RS and STS, with peak transcript abundance occurring at about 22-24 DAF, generally followed by a sequential increase in raffinose, stachyose and verbascose concentrations followed by a steady level thereafter. Enzyme activities for RS, STS and verbascose synthase (VS) also indicated a sudden increase at around 24-26 DAF, but with an abrupt decline again coinciding with the subsequent steady state increase in the RFO. Galactan:galactan galactosyl transferase (GGT), the galactinol-independent pathway enzyme, however, exhibited steady increase in activity from 24 DAF onwards before abruptly decreasing at 34 DAF. Although GGT activity was detected, isolation of a GGT sequence from the cDNA library was not successful.
Carotenoids are involved in many essential physiological functions and are produced from geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate through synthase, desaturase, and cyclase activities. In the pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum), the duplication of carotenoid biosynthetic genes, including carotenoid synthases/cyclases (ApCscA-C) and desaturases (ApCdeA-D), through horizontal gene transfer from fungi has been detected, and ApCdeB has known dehydrogenation functions. However, whether other genes contribute to aphid carotenoid biosynthesis, and its specific regulatory pathway, remains unclear. In the current study, functional analyses of seven genes were performed using heterologous complementation and RNA interference assays. The bifunctional enzymes ApCscA-C were responsible for the synthase of phytoene, and ApCscC may also have a cyclase activity. ApCdeA, ApCdeC, and ApCdeD had diverse dehydrogenation functions. ApCdeA catalyzed the enzymatic conversion of phytoene to neurosporene (three-step product), ApCdeC catalyzed the enzymatic conversion of phytoene to ζ-carotene (two-step product), and ApCdeD catalyzed the enzymatic conversion of phytoene to lycopene (four-step product). Silencing of ApCscs reduced the expression levels of ApCdes, and silencing these carotenoid biosynthetic genes reduced the α-, β-, and γ-carotene levels, as well as the total carotenoid level. The results suggest that these genes were activated and led to carotenoid biosynthesis in the pea aphid.
In the Arctic part of the Nordic region, cultivated crops need to specifically adapt to adverse and extreme climate conditions, such as low temperatures, long days, and a short growing season. Under the projected climate change scenarios, higher temperatures and an earlier spring thaw will gradually allow the cultivation of plants that could not be previously cultivated there. For millennia, Pea (
Using pea as our model crop, we sought to understand the regulatory control over the import of sugars and amino acids into the developing seeds and its importance for seed yield and quality. Transgenic peas simultaneously overexpressing a sucrose transporter and an amino acid transporter were developed. Pod walls, seed coats, and cotyledons were analysed separately, as well as leaves subtending developing pods. Sucrose, starch, protein, free amino acids, and endogenous cytokinins were measured during development. Temporal gene expression analyses (RT-qPCR) of amino acid (AAP), sucrose (SUT), and SWEET transporter family members, and those from cell wall invertase, cytokinin biosynthetic (IPT) and degradation (CKX) gene families indicated a strong effect of the transgenes on gene expression. In seed coats of the double transgenics, increased content and prolonged presence of cytokinin was particularly noticeable. The transgenes effectively promoted transition of young sink leaves into source leaves. We suggest the increased flux of sucrose and amino acids from source to sink, along with increased interaction between cytokinin and cell wall invertase in developing seed coats led to enhanced sink activity, resulting in higher cotyledon sucrose at process pea harvest, and increased seed number and protein content at maturity.
Higher order thalamic neurons receive driving inputs from cortical layer 5 and project back to the cortex, reflecting a transthalamic route for corticocortical communication. To determine whether or not individual neurons integrate signals from different cortical populations, we combined electron microscopy "connectomics" in mice with genetic labeling to disambiguate layer 5 synapses from somatosensory and motor cortices to the higher order thalamic posterior medial nucleus. A significant convergence of these inputs was found on 19 of 33 reconstructed thalamic cells, and as a population, the layer 5 synapses were larger and located more proximally on dendrites than were unlabeled synapses. Thus, many or most of these thalamic neurons do not simply relay afferent information but instead integrate signals as disparate in this case as those emanating from sensory and motor cortices. These findings add further depth and complexity to the role of the higher order thalamus in overall cortical functioning.
DWARF53 (D53) in rice (Oryza sativa) and its homologs in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), SUPPRESSOR OF MAX2-LIKE 6 (SMXL6), SMXL7 and SMXL8, are well established negative regulators of strigolactone (SL) signalling in shoot branching regulation. Little is known of pea (Pisum sativum) homologs and whether D53 and related SMXLs are specific to SL signalling pathways. Here, we identify two allelic pea mutants, dormant3 (dor3), and demonstrate through gene mapping and sequencing that DOR3 corresponds to a homolog of D53 and SMXL6/SMXL7, designated PsSMXL7. Phenotype analysis, gene expression, protein and hormone quantification assays were performed to determine the role of PsSMXL7 in regulation of bud outgrowth and the role of PsSMXL7 and D53 in integrating SL and cytokinin (CK) responses. Like D53 and related SMXLs, we show that PsSMXL7 can be degraded by SL and induces feedback upregulation of PsSMXL7 transcript. Here we reveal a system conserved in pea and rice, whereby CK also upregulates PsSMXL7/D53 transcripts, providing a clear mechanism for SL and CK cross-talk in the regulation of branching. To further deepen our understanding of the branching network in pea, we provide evidence that SL acts via PsSMXL7 to modulate auxin content via PsAFB5, which itself regulates expression of SL biosynthesis genes. We therefore show that PsSMXL7 is key to a triple hormone network involving an auxin-SL feedback mechanism and SL-CK cross-talk.
A stable and major QTL, which mapped to an approximately 20.0 cM region on pea chromosome 4, was identified as the most consistent region conferring partial resistance to Aphanomyces euteiches. Aphanomyces root rot (ARR), caused by Aphanomyces euteiches Drechs., is a destructive soilborne disease of field pea (Pisum Sativum L.). No completely resistant pea germplasm is available, and current ARR management strategies rely on partial resistance and fungicidal seed treatments. In this study, an F
Plant-soil feedbacks can mediate aboveground plant-herbivore interactions by impacting plant chemistry. Given that soil legacies and agricultural practices are closely tied, a better understanding of soil legacy cascades and their application in pest management are needed. We tested how cover crop legacies alter resistance to fall armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda Smith, Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) in maize (Zea mays L., Poales: Poaceae). We compared herbivore performance and behavior of fall armyworm larvae on maize grown after four cover crop treatments: a leguminous mycorrhizal cover crop (pea: Pisum sativum L., Fabales: Fabaceae), a nonleguminous mycorrhizal cover crop (triticale: x Triticosecale Wittm. Ex A. Camus, Poales: Poaceae), a nonleguminous nonmycorrhizal cover crop (radish: Raphanus sativus L., Brassicales: Brassicaceae), and no cover crops (fallow). Soil inorganic N was highest in pea treatments and lowest in triticale treatments, while maize AMF colonization was greatest when grown after mycorrhizal cover crops compared to nonmycorrhizal or no cover crops. Cover crop legacies altered the emission of maize volatiles and fall armyworm larvae oriented toward odors emitted by maize grown after radish more frequently than triticale in olfactometer assays. Additionally, larvae performed better and consumed more leaf tissue when feeding on maize grown after radish and poorest on plants grown after triticale. When damaged by fall armyworm, maize grown after triticale expressed higher levels of lipoxygenase-3 (lox3), while plants grown after radish upregulated maize proteinase inhibitor (mpi) gene expression. Our results highlight the importance of appropriate cover crop selection and suggest that triticale could strengthen maize resistance to fall armyworm.
Some soil bacteria, called rhizobia, can interact symbiotically with legumes, in which they form nodules on the plant roots, where they can reduce atmospheric dinitrogen to ammonia, a form of nitrogen that can be used by growing plants. Rhizobium-plant combinations can differ in how successful this symbiosis is: for example, Sinorhizobium meliloti Rm1021 forms a relatively ineffective symbiosis with Medicago truncatula Jemalong A17, but Sinorhizobium medicae WSM419 is able to support more vigorous plant growth. Using proteomic data from free-living and symbiotic
Polysaccharides have hypoglycemic activity and pea protein has high nutritional value. The purified pea glycoprotein PGP2 has been shown to inhibit the activity of α-glucosidase and α-amylase in previous studies. To study the mechanism of PGP2-induced blood glucose lowering in vivo, this paper established a diabetic mouse model by intraperitoneal injection of STZ and high-fat diet, and evaluated the blood-glucose-lowering activity of the pea component PGP2 at different doses. The results showed that intragastric administration of PGP2 could effectively reduce diabetic weight loss and polyphagia symptoms, reduce fasting blood glucose levels in mice, and improve oral glucose tolerance levels in mice. PGP2 could promote insulin secretion and had a protective effect on mouse organs. After intragastric administration of PGP2 in mice, the serum levels of total cholesterol, triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein decreased. PGP2 up-regulated the gene expression of insulin receptor substrates IRS-1 and IRS-2 in liver tissues, thereby reducing insulin resistance. Based on the above experimental results, PGP2 had good hypoglycemic activity and was expected to be developed as a natural medicine for the treatment of type II diabetes.
In angiosperms, the mature seed consists of embryo, endosperm, and a maternal plant-derived seed coat (SC). The SC plays a role in seed filling, protects the embryo, mediates dormancy and germination, and facilitates the dispersal of seeds. SC properties have been modified during the domestication process, resulting in the removal of dormancy, mediated by SC impermeability. This study compares the SC anatomy and histochemistry of two wild (JI64 and JI1794) and two domesticated (cv. Cameor and JI92) pea genotypes. Histochemical staining of five developmental stages: 13, 21, 27, 30 days after anthesis (DAA), and mature dry seeds revealed clear differences between both pea types. SC thickness is established early in the development (13 DAA) and is primarily governed by macrosclereid cells. Polyanionic staining by Ruthenium Red indicated non homogeneity of the SC, with a strong signal in the hilum, the micropyle, and the upper parts of the macrosclereids. High peroxidase activity was detected in both wild and cultivated genotypes and increased over the development peaking prior to desiccation. The detailed knowledge of SC anatomy is important for any molecular or biochemical studies, including gene expression and proteomic analysis, especially when comparing different genotypes and treatments. Analysis is useful for other crop-to-wild-progenitor comparisons of economically important legume crops.
The accumulation of proline is one of the defense mechanisms of plants against the harmful effects of adverse environmental conditions; however, when pea plants were treated for 12 h with CdCl
The use of pulses as ingredients for the production of food products rich in plant proteins is increasing. However, protein fractions prepared from pea or other pulses contain significant amounts of saponins, glycosylated triterpenes that can impart an undesirable bitter taste when used as an ingredient in foodstuffs. In this article, we describe the identification and characterization of a gene involved in saponin biosynthesis during pea seed development, by screening mutants obtained from two Pisum sativum TILLING (Targeting Induced Local Lesions IN Genomes) populations in two different genetic backgrounds. The mutations studied are located in a gene designated PsBAS1 (β-amyrin synthase1), which is highly expressed in maturing pea seeds and which encodes a protein previously shown to correspond to an active β-amyrin synthase. The first allele is a nonsense mutation, while the second mutation is located in a splice site and gives rise to a mis-spliced transcript encoding a truncated, nonfunctional protein. The homozygous mutant seeds accumulated virtually no saponin without affecting the seed nutritional or physiological quality. Interestingly, BAS1 appears to control saponin accumulation in all other tissues of the plant examined. These lines represent a first step in the development of pea varieties lacking bitterness off-flavors in their seeds. Our work also shows that TILLING populations in different genetic backgrounds represent valuable genetic resources for both crop improvement and functional genomics.
Transition to flowering is an important stage of plant development. Many regulatory modules that control floral transition are conservative across plants. This process is best studied for the model plant
Approximately 6% of the world's total land area and 20% of the irrigated land are affected by salt stress. Egypt is one such country affected by salt-stress problems. This paper focuses on the role of isolated bacteria, such as Bacillus subtilis and Pseudomonas fluorescens, in alleviating the harmful effects of salt stress. The results show that the irrigation of plants with different concentrations of saline water (0, 75, and 150 mM NaCl) leads to significantly decreased growth criteria, photosynthetic pigments (i.e., chl a, chl b, and carotenoids), and membrane stability index (MSI) values. Moreover, malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione content, endogenous proline, the antioxidant defense system, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) content, ACC synthase (ACS), ACC oxidase (ACO), and Na
Legume nodules are a unique plant organ that contain nitrogen-fixing rhizobial bacteria. For this interaction to be mutually beneficial, plant and bacterial metabolism must be precisely co-ordinated. Plant hormones are known to play essential roles during the establishment of legume-rhizobial symbioses but their role in subsequent nodule metabolism has not been explored in any depth. The plant hormones brassinosteroids, ethylene and gibberellins influence legume infection, nodule number and in some cases nodule function. In this paper, the influence of these hormones on nodule metabolism was examined in a series of well characterised pea mutants with altered hormone biosynthesis or response. A targeted set of metabolites involved in nutrient exchange and nitrogen fixation was examined in nodule tissue of mutant and wild type plants. Gibberellin-deficiency had a major negative impact on the level of several major dicarboxylates supplied to rhizobia by the plant and also led to a significant deficit in the amino acids involved in glutamine-aspartate transamination, consistent with the limited bacteroid development and low fixation rate of gibberellin-deficient na mutant nodules. In contrast, no major effects of brassinosteroid-deficiency or ethylene-insensitivity on the key metabolites in these pathways were found. Therefore, although all three hormones influence infection and nodule number, only gibberellin is important for the establishment of a functional nodule metabolome.
Arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) is an ancient mutualistic symbiosis formed by 80-90 % of land plant species with the obligatorily biotrophic fungi that belong to the phylum Glomeromycota. This symbiosis is mutually beneficial, as AM fungi feed on plant photosynthesis products, in turn improving the efficiency of nutrient uptake from the environment. The garden pea (Pisum sativum L.), a widely cultivated crop and an important model for genetics, is capable of forming triple symbiotic systems consisting of the plant, AM fungi and nodule bacteria. As transcriptomic and proteomic approaches are being implemented for studying the mutualistic symbioses of pea, a need for a reference transcriptome of genes expressed under these specific conditions for increasing the resolution and the accuracy of other methods arose. Numerous transcriptome assemblies constructed for pea did not include mycorrhizal roots, hence the aim of the study to construct a reference transcriptome assembly of pea mycorrhizal roots. The combined transcriptome of mycorrhizal roots of Pisum sativum cv. Frisson inoculated with Rhizophagus irregularis BEG144 was investigated, and for both the organisms independent transcriptomes were assembled (coverage 177x for pea and 45x for fungus). Genes specific to mycorrhizal roots were found in the assembly, their expression patterns were examined with qPCR on two pea cultivars, Frisson and Finale. The gene expression depended on the inoculation stage and on the pea cultivar. The investigated genes may serve as markers for early stages of inoculation in genetically diverse pea cultivars. Арбускулярная микориза (AM) – это древний мутуалистический симбиоз, который образуют 80– 90 % видов наземных растений с облигатно биотрофными грибами, принадлежащими к филе Glomeromycota. Этот симбиоз является взаимовыгодным, поскольку грибы AM питаются продуктами фотосинтеза растений, в свою очередь повышая эффективность поглощения питательных веществ растением из окружающей среды. Горох (Pisum sativum L.), широко распространенная сельскохозяйственная культура и важный модельный объект генетики, способен образовывать тройные симбиотические системы, состоящие из растения, грибов AM и клубеньковых бактерий. По мере распространения транскриптомных и протеомных подходов в изучении мутуалистических симбиозов гороха, для повышения разрешающей способности и точности других методов возникла необходимость в референсном транскриптоме, т.е. в знании последовательностей генов, экспрессирующихся в различных экспериментальных условиях. Многочисленные транскриптомные сборки, сконструированные для гороха, не включали микоризованные корни, поэтому целью данного исследования было создание референсной транскриптомной сборки микоризованных корней. Было проведено глубокое РНК-секвенирование транскриптома микоризованных корней Pisum sativum сорта Frisson, инокулированных Rhizophagus irregularis BEG144, и для каждого из организмов получены независимые транскриптомные сборки (покрытие 177х для транскриптома гороха и 45x для транскриптома гриба). Качество сборки транскриптома гороха оценено путем сравнения с уже имеющимися сборками транскриптомов других тканей. Для дополнительной оценки качества сборки, у двух сортов гороха (Frisson и Finale) с помощью qPCR проведен анализ экспрессии генов, специфичных для микоризованных корней, последовательности которых были найдены в созданной сборке. Исследованные гены могут служить маркерами ранних стадий развития арбускулярной микоризы у генетически разнообразных сортов гороха.
Pea is a legume crop producing protein-rich seeds and is increasingly in demand for human consumption and animal feed. The aim of this study was to explore the proteome of developing pea seeds at three key stages covering embryogenesis, the transition to seed-filling, and the beginning of storage-protein synthesis, and to investigate how the proteome was influenced by S deficiency and water stress, applied either separately or combined. Of the 3184 proteins quantified by shotgun proteomics, 2473 accumulated at particular stages, thus providing insights into the proteome dynamics at these stages. Differential analyses in response to the stresses and inference of a protein network using the whole proteomics dataset identified a cluster of antioxidant proteins (including a glutathione S-transferase, a methionine sulfoxide reductase, and a thioredoxin) possibly involved in maintaining redox homeostasis during early seed development and preventing cellular damage under stress conditions. Integration of the proteomics data with previously obtained transcriptomics data at the transition to seed-filling revealed the transcriptional events associated with the accumulation of the stress-regulated antioxidant proteins. This transcriptional defense response involves genes of sulfate homeostasis and assimilation, thus providing candidates for targeted studies aimed at dissecting the signaling cascade linking S metabolism to antioxidant processes in developing seeds.
Comparative transcriptome analysis of Erysiphe pisi-infected pea (Pisum sativum) genotypes JI-2480 (resistant) and Arkel (susceptible) at 72 hours post-inoculation (hpi) was carried to detect molecular components involved in compatible and incompatible interactions. Differential gene expression was observed in Arkel and JI-2480 genotype at 72 hpi with E. pisi isolate (Ep01) using EdgeR software. Out of 32 217 transcripts, 2755 transcripts showed significantly altered gene expression in case of plants while 530 were related to E. pisi (P < 0.05). The higher transcript number of differentially expressed genes demonstrated peak activity of pathogenicity genes in plants at 72 hpi. Glycolysis was observed to be the major pathway for energy source during fungal growth. Differential gene expression of plant transcripts revealed significant expression of putative receptor and regulatory sequences involved in defense in the resistant, JI-2480 compared to susceptible, Arkel genotype. Expression of genes involved in defense and hormonal signaling, genes related to hypersensitive response, reactive oxygen species and phenylpropanoid pathway in JI-2480 indicated their crucial role in disease resistance against E. pisi. Down-regulation of transcription factors like-WRKY-28 and up-regulation of several putative pattern recognition receptors in JI-2480 compared to Arkel also suggested activation of host-mediated defense responses against E. pisi in pea.
Pea (Pisum sativum L.), a cool-season legume crop grown in more than 85 countries, is the second most important grain legume and one of the major green vegetables in the world. While pea was historically studied as the genetic model leading to the discovery of the laws of genetics, pea research has lagged behind that of other major legumes in the genomics era, due to its large and complex genome. The evolving climate change and growing population have posed grand challenges to the objective of feeding the world, making it essential to invest research efforts to develop multi-omics resources and advanced breeding tools to support fast and continuous development of improved pea varieties. Recently, the pea researchers have achieved key milestones in omics and molecular breeding. The present review provides an overview of the recent important progress including the development of genetic resource databases, high-throughput genotyping assays, reference genome, genes/QTLs responsible for important traits, transcriptomic, proteomic, and phenomic atlases of various tissues under different conditions. These multi-faceted resources have enabled the successful implementation of various markers for monitoring early-generation populations as in marker-assisted backcrossing breeding programs. The emerging new breeding approaches such as CRISPR, speed breeding, and genomic selection are starting to change the paradigm of pea breeding. Collectively, the rich omics resources and omics-enable breeding approaches will enhance genetic gain in pea breeding and accelerate the release of novel pea varieties to meet the elevating demands on productivity and quality.
Single three-amino acid loop extension (TALE) homeodomain proteins, including the KNOTTED-like (KNOX) and BEL-like (BELL) families in plants, usually work as heterodimeric transcription factor complexes to regulate different developmental processes, often via effects on phytohormonal pathways. Nitrogen-fixing nodule formation in legumes is regulated by different families of homeodomain transcription factors. Whereas the role of KNOX transcription factors in the control of symbiosis was studied early, BELL transcription factors have received less attention. Here, we report the identification and expression analysis of
A stable intense resistance called "nonhost resistance" generates a complete multiple-gene resistance against plant pathogenic species that are not pathogens of pea such as the bean pathogen,
Flowering plants display a vast diversity of inflorescence architecture, which plays an important role in determining seed yield and fruit production. Unlike the model eudicot Arabidopsis thaliana that has simple inflorescences, most legume plants have compound types of inflorescences. Recent studies in the model legume species Pisum sativum and Medicago truncatula showed that the MADS-box transcription factors VEGETATIVE1/PsFRUITFULc/MtFRUITFULc (VEG1/PsFULc and MtFULc) are essential for the development of compound inflorescences by specifying the secondary inflorescence meristem identity. In this study, we report the isolation and characterization of two new mtfulc alleles by screening the M. truncatula Tnt1 insertion mutant collection. We found that MtFULc specifies M. truncatula secondary inflorescence meristem identity in a dose-dependent manner. Biochemical analysis and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays revealed that MtFULc acts as a transcriptional repressor to directly repress the expression of MtTFL1 through its promoter and 3' intergenic region. Comprehensive genetic analysis suggest MtFULc coordinates with the primary inflorescence meristem maintainer MtTFL1 and floral meristem regulator MtPIM to control M. truncatula inflorescence development. Our findings help to elucidate the mechanism of MtFULc-mediated regulation of secondary inflorescence meristem identity and provide insights into understanding the genetic regulatory network underlying compound inflorescence development in legumes.
Alternative splicing (AS), a process that enables formation of different mRNA isoforms due to alternative ways of pre-mRNA processing, is one of the mechanisms for fine-tuning gene expression. Currently, the role of AS in symbioses formed by plants with soil microorganisms is not fully understood. In this work, a comprehensive analysis of the transcriptome of garden pea (
The pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum hosts different facultative symbionts (FS) which provide it with various benefits, such as tolerance to heat or protection against natural enemies (e.g., fungi, parasitoid wasps). Here, we investigated whether and how the presence of certain FS could affect phenoloxidase (PO) activity, a key component of insect innate immunity, under normal and stressed conditions. For this, we used clones of A. pisum of different genetic backgrounds (LL01, YR2 and T3-8V1) lacking FS or harboring one or two (Regiella insecticola, Hamiltonella defensa, Serratia symbiotica + Rickettsiella viridis). Gene expression and proteomics analyses of the aphid hemolymph indicated that the two A. pisum POs, PPO1 and PPO2, are expressed and translated into proteins. The level of PPO genes expression as well as the amount of PPO proteins and phenoloxidase activity in the hemolymph depended on both the aphid genotype and FS species. In particular, H. defensa and R. insecticola, but not S. symbiotica + R. viridis, caused a sharp decrease in PO activity by interfering with both transcription and translation. The microinjection of different types of stressors (yeast, Escherichia coli, latex beads) in the YR2 lines hosting different symbionts affected the survival rate of aphids and, in most cases, also decreased the expression of PPO genes after 24 h. The amount and activity of PPO proteins varied according to the type of FS and stressor, without clear corresponding changes in gene expression. These data demonstrate that the presence of certain FS influences an important component of pea aphid immunity.
Gretchen Hagen 3 (GH3) acyl acid amidosynthetases are encoded by early auxin-responsive genes and catalyze an ATP-dependent biosynthesis of IAA-amino acid conjugates. An amide conjugate of IAA, indole-3-acetyl-aspartate (IAA-aspartate, IAA-Asp), is a predominant form of bound auxin in immature seeds of pea. However, there is some evidence that IAA is also able to form high molecular weight amide conjugates with proteins in pea and other plant species. In this short study we report that recombinant PsGH3 IAA-amino acid synthetase, which exhibits a preference for the formation of IAA-Asp, can also conjugate IAA with the protein fraction from immature seeds of pea (S-10 fraction). We studied [
Three proteins induced by salicylic acid were revealed in pea roots. These proteins were identified as chitinase isozymes belonging to the glycoside hydrolases family 18. The PsCam050724 transcript encoding at least one of these isoforms was found, allowing us to determine its primary structure, which lacks the signal peptide.
Plants undergo several developmental transitions during their life cycle. One of these, the differentiation of the young embryo from a meristem-like structure into a highly specialized storage organ, is believed to be controlled by local connections between sugars and hormonal response systems. However, we know little about the regulatory networks underpinning the sugar-hormone interactions in developing seeds. By modulating the trehalose 6-phosphate (T6P) content in growing embryos of garden pea (Pisum sativum), we investigate here the role of this signaling sugar during the seed-filling process. Seeds deficient in T6P are compromised in size and starch production, resembling the wrinkled seeds studied by Gregor Mendel. We show also that T6P exerts these effects by stimulating the biosynthesis of the pivotal plant hormone, auxin. We found that T6P promotes the expression of the auxin biosynthesis gene TRYPTOPHAN AMINOTRANSFERASE RELATED2 (TAR2), and the resulting effect on auxin concentrations is required to mediate the T6P-induced activation of storage processes. Our results suggest that auxin acts downstream of T6P to facilitate seed filling, thereby providing a salient example of how a metabolic signal governs the hormonal control of an integral phase transition in a crop plant.
Actin depolymerising factor (ADF) is an actin binding protein that is ubiquitous in animal and plant cells. It plays an important role in plant growth and development, as well as resistance to biotic and abiotic stress. The research of plant ADF family has been restricted to Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. and some herb crops, but no woody cash crops have been reported to date. All members of the Cajanus cajan (L.) Millsp. ADF (CcADF) family were identified from the pigeon pea genome, and distributed among the four subfamilies by phylogenetic analysis. CcADFs were relatively conservative in gene structure evolution, protein structure and functional expression, and different CcADFs showed specific expression patterns under different treatments. The expression characteristics of several key CcADFs were revealed by analysing the stress response pattern of CcADFs and the time series RNA-seq of aluminium stress. Among them, CcADF9 in the first subgroup specifically responded to aluminium stress in the roots; CcADF3 in the second subgroup intensively responded to fungal infection in the leaves; and CcADF2 in the fourth subgroup positively responded to various stress treatments in different tissues. This study extended the relationship between plant ADF family and aluminium tolerance, as well as adding to the understanding of CcADF family in woody crops.
Optimizing plant architecture is an efficient approach for breeders to increase crop yields, and phytohormones such as gibberellins (GAs) play an important role in controlling growth. Medicago truncatula is a model legume species, but the molecular mechanisms underlying its architecture are largely unknown. In this study, we examined a tobacco retrotransposon Tnt1-tagged mutant collection of M. truncatula and identified dwarf and increased branching 1 (dib1), which exhibited extreme dwarfism and increased numbers of lateral branches. By analysis of the flanking sequences of Tnt1 insertions in different alleles of the tagged lines, we were able to clone DIB1. Linkage analysis and reverse screening of the flanking-sequence tags identified Medtr2g102570 as the gene corresponding to the DIB1 locus in the dib1 loss-of-function mutants. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that DIB1 was the ortholog of PsGA3ox1/Le in Pisum sativum. Expression analysis using a GUS-staining reporter line showed that DIB1 was expressed in the root apex, pods, and immature seeds. Endogenous GA4 concentrations were markedly decreased whilst some of representative GA biosynthetic enzymes were up-regulated in the dib1 mutant. In addition, exogenous application of GA3 rescued the dib1 mutant phenotypes. Overall, our results suggest that DIB1 controls plant height and axillary bud outgrowth via an influence on the biosynthesis of bioactive GAs. DIB1 could therefore be a good candidate gene for breeders to optimize plant architecture for crop improvement.
Distinct protein complements impart each of the chloroplast's three membranes and three aqueous spaces with specific functions essential for plant growth and development. Chloroplasts capture light energy, synthesize macromolecular building blocks and specialized metabolites, and communicate environmental signals to the nucleus. Establishing and maintaining these processes requires approximately 3000 proteins derived from nuclear genes, constituting approximately 95% of the chloroplast proteome. These proteins are imported into chloroplasts from the cytosol, sorted to the correct subcompartment, and assembled into functioning complexes. In vitro import assays can reconstitute these processes in isolated chloroplasts. We describe methods for monitoring in vitro protein import using Pisum sativum chloroplasts and for protease protection, fractionation, and native protein electrophoresis that are commonly combined with the import assay. These techniques facilitate investigation of the import and sorting processes, of where a protein resides, and of how that protein functions.
Plants use a variety of signals to control root development, including in modifying root development in response to nutrient stress. For example, in response to nitrogen (N) stress, plants dramatically modulate root development, including the formation of N-fixing nodules in legumes. Recently, specific CLE peptides and/or receptors important for their perception, including CLV1 and CLV2, have been found to play roles in root development, including in response to N supply. In the legume Medicago truncatula, this response also appears to be influenced by RDN1, a member of the hydroxyproline-O-arabinosyltransferase (HPAT) family which can modify specific CLE peptides. However, it is not known if this signalling pathway plays a central role in root development across species, and in particular root responses to N. In this study, we systematically examined the role of the CLV signalling pathway genes in root development of the legume pea (Pisum sativum) and non-legume tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) using a mutant-based approach. This included a detailed examination of root development in response to N in tomato mutants disrupted in CLV1- or CLV2-like genes or HPAT family member FIN. We found no evidence for a role of these genes in pea seedling root development. Furthermore, the CLV1-like FAB gene did not influence tomato root development, including the root response to N supply. In contrast, both CLV2 and the HPAT gene FIN appear to positively influence root size in tomato but do not mediate root responses to N. These results suggest the function of these genes may vary somewhat in different species, including the N regulation of root architecture.
This study evaluated the effect of four peptides, VLP, LLP, LL, and LL from pea on regulating glucose metabolism and antioxidant through IRS-1/PI3K/AKT and p38MAPK signal pathway in IR-HepG2 cell induced by 10
The inclusion of pulses in traditional wheat-based food products is increasing as the food industry and consumers are recognizing the nutritional benefits due to the high protein, antioxidant activity, and good source of dietary fiber of pulses. Iron deficiency is a significant global health challenge, affecting approximately 30% of the world's population. Dietary iron deficiency is the foremost cause of anemia, a condition that harms cognitive development and increases maternal and infant mortality. This study intended to demonstrate the potential efficacy of low-phytate biofortified pea varieties on dietary iron (Fe) bioavailability, as well as on intestinal microbiome, energetic status, and brush border membrane (BBM) functionality in vivo (
Pisum fulvum is an annual legume native to Syria, Lebanon, Israel and Jordan. In certain locations, P. fulvum individuals were documented to display a reproductive dimorphism - amphicarpy, with both above and below ground flowers and pods. Herein we aimed to study the possible role of soil texture on amphicarpy in P. fulvum, to investigate the possible bio-climatic associations of P. fulvum amphicarpy and to identify genetic markers associated with this phenotype. A set of 127 germplasm accessions sampled across the Israeli distribution range of the species was phenotyped in two common garden nurseries. Land use and bioclimatic data were used to delineate the eco-geographic clustering of accession's sampling sites. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers were employed in genome-wide association study to identify associated loci. Amphicarpy was subject to strong experimental site x genotype interaction with higher phenotypic expression in fine textured soil relative to sandy loam. Amphicarpy was more prevalent among accessions sampled in eastern Judea and Samaria and was weakly associated with early phenology and relatively modest above ground biomass production. Twelve SNP markers were significantly associated with amphicarpy, each explaining between 8 and 12 % of the phenotypic variation. In P. fulvum amphicarpy seems to be a polygenetic trait controlled by an array of genes that is likely to be affected by environmental stimuli. The probable selective advantage of the association between amphicarpy and early flowering is in line with its relative prevalence in drought prone territories subject to heavy grazing.
This paper introduces the use of microarray data technology with Medicago (Medicago truncatula) microarrays to characterize global changes in the transcript abundance of etiolated Alaska pea (Pisum sativum L.) seedlings grown under microgravity (µg) conditions in comparison with those under artificial 1 g conditions on the International Space Station. Of the 44,000 genes of the Medicago microarray platform, more than 25,000 transcripts of pea seedlings were hybridized, suggesting that the microarray platform for Medicago could be useful in the study of gene expression of etiolated pea seedlings grown under µg conditions in space. Gene array data were analyzed according to stringent criteria that restricted the scored genes for specific hybridization values at least twofold. Expression of 1362 and 1558 genes in proximal side (the proximal side) and distal side of the epicotyl to the cotyledons (the distal side), respectively, were highly affected by µg conditions in space. Of the genes analyzed, 407 of 1362 transcripts in the proximal side and 740 of 1558 transcripts in the distal side were expressed at ratios at least twofold. However, in the presence of the auxin transport inhibitor TIBA, 212 of 399 transcripts and 255 of 477 transcripts were expressed at ratios at least twofold as high in the proximal and the distal sides of epicotyls in the seedlings grown under µg conditions, respectively. Based on Venn diagram analysis, 31 transcripts and 24 transcripts were found to commonly increase and decrease, respectively, under µg conditions in space. Venn analysis revealed six auxin-related genes and three water channel AQUAPORIN genes that were responsive to gravity. Among 6 auxin-related genes, the accumulation of transcripts of Auxin-induced protein 5NG4 and Indole-3-acetic acid-amido synthetase GH3.3 tended to increase, and that of Auxin-induced protein, Auxin response factor, SAUR-like auxin-responsive family protein and Auxin response factor tended to decrease under µg conditions, whereas there were no statistic differences between under µg and artificial 1 g conditions. Similarly there were no statistic differences between under µg conditions and artificial 1 g, but the accumulation of NIP3-1 and Plasma membrane intrinsic protein11, and AQUAPORIN1/Tonoplast intrinsic protein tended to increase and decrease, respectively. A possible role of auxin-related genes and AQUAPORIN genes in regulating growth of etiolated pea seedlings grown under µg conditions in space is discussed.
Plant height is a vital agronomic trait that greatly determines crop yields because of the close relationship between plant height and lodging resistance. Legumes play a unique role in the worldwide agriculture; however, little attention has been given to the molecular basis of their height. Here, we characterized the first dwarf mutant
Directional transport of the phytohormone auxin is a versatile, plant-specific mechanism regulating many aspects of plant development. The recently identified plant hormones, strigolactones (SLs), are implicated in many plant traits; among others, they modify the phenotypic output of PIN-FORMED (PIN) auxin transporters for fine-tuning of growth and developmental responses. Here, we show in pea and Arabidopsis that SLs target processes dependent on the canalization of auxin flow, which involves auxin feedback on PIN subcellular distribution. D14 receptor- and MAX2 F-box-mediated SL signaling inhibits the formation of auxin-conducting channels after wounding or from artificial auxin sources, during vasculature de novo formation and regeneration. At the cellular level, SLs interfere with auxin effects on PIN polar targeting, constitutive PIN trafficking as well as clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Our results identify a non-transcriptional mechanism of SL action, uncoupling auxin feedback on PIN polarity and trafficking, thereby regulating vascular tissue formation and regeneration.
Flowering time is an important trait for productivity in legumes, which include many food and fodder plants. Medicago truncatula (Medicago) is a model temperate legume used to study flowering time pathways. Like Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis), its flowering is promoted by extended periods of cold (vernalization, V), followed by warm long day (LD) photoperiods. However, Arabidopsis flowering-time genes such as the FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC)/ MADS AFFECTING FLOWERING (MAF) clade are missing and CONSTANS-LIKE (CO-LIKE) genes do not appear to have a role in Medicago or Pisum sativum (pea). Another photoperiodic regulator, the red/far red photoreceptor PHYTOCHROME A (PHYA), promotes Arabidopsis flowering by stabilizing the CO protein in LD. Interestingly, despite the absence of CO-LIKE function in pea, PsPHYA plays a key role in promoting LD photoperiodic flowering and plant architecture. Medicago has one homolog of PHYA, MtPHYA, but its function is not known. Genetic analysis of two MtPHYA Tnt1 insertion mutant alleles indicates that MtPHYA has an important role in promoting Medicago flowering and primary stem elongation in VLD and LD and in perception of far-red wavelengths in seedlings. MtPHYA positively regulates the expression of MtE1-like (MtE1L), a homologue of an important legume-specific flowering time gene, E1 in soybean and other Medicago LD-regulated flowering-time gene homologues, including the three FLOWERING LOCUS T-LIKE (FT-LIKE) genes, MtFTa1, MtFTb1 and MtFTb2 and the two FRUITFULL-LIKE (FUL-LIKE) genes MtFULa and MtFULb. MtPHYA also modulates the expression of the circadian clock genes, GIGANTEA (GI) and TIMING OF CAB EXPRESSION 1a (TOC1a). Genetic analyses indicate that Mtphya-1 Mte1l double mutants flowered at the same time as the single mutants. However, Mtphya-1 Mtfta1 double mutants had a weak additive effect in delaying flowering and in reduction of primary axis lengths beyond what was conferred by either of the single mutants. MtPHYA has an important role in LD photoperiodic control of flowering, plant architecture and seedling de-etiolation under far-red wavelengths in Medicago. It promotes the expression of LD-induced flowering time genes and modulates clock-related genes. In addition to MtFTa1, MtPHYA likely regulates other targets during LD floral induction in Medicago.
Legume consumption has been reported to induce beneficial effects on obesity-associated metabolic disorders, but the underlying mechanisms have not been fully clarified. In the current work, pea (
In pea (Pisum sativum L.), moderate heat stress during early flowering/fruit set increased seed/ovule abortion, and concomitantly produced fruits with reduced ovary (pericarp) length, and fewer seeds at maturity. Plant hormonal networks coordinate seed and pericarp growth and development. To determine if these hormonal networks are modulated in response to heat stress, we analyzed the gene expression patterns and associated these patterns with precursors, and bioactive and inactive metabolites of the auxin, gibberellin (GA), abscisic acid (ABA), and ethylene biosynthesis/catabolism pathways in young developing seeds and pericarps of non-stressed and 4-day heat-stressed fruits. Our data suggest that within the developing seeds heat stress decreased bioactive GA levels reducing GA growth-related processes, and that increased ethylene levels may have promoted this inhibitory response. In contrast, heat stress increased auxin biosynthesis gene expression and auxin levels in the seeds and pericarps, and seed ABA levels, both effects can increase seed sink strength. We hypothesize that seeds with higher auxin- and ABA-induced sink strength and adequate bioactive GA levels will set and continue to grow, while the seeds with lower sink strength (low auxin, ABA, and GA levels) will become more sensitive to heat stress-induced ethylene leading to ovule/seed abortion.
As skin ages, impaired extracellular matrix (ECM) protein synthesis and increased action of degradative enzymes manifest as atrophy, wrinkling and laxity. There is mounting evidence for the functional role of exogenous peptides across many areas, including in offsetting the effects of cutaneous ageing. Here, using an artificial intelligence (AI) approach, we identified peptide RTE62G (pep_RTE62G), a naturally occurring, unmodified peptide with ECM stimulatory properties. The AI-predicted anti-ageing properties of pep_RTE62G were then validated through in vitro, ex vivo and proof of concept clinical testing. A deep learning approach was applied to unlock pep_RTE62G from a plant source, Pisum sativum (pea). Cell culture assays of human dermal fibroblasts (HDFs) and keratinocytes (HaCaTs) were subsequently used to evaluate the in vitro effect of pep_RTE62G. Distinct activities such as cell proliferation and ECM protein production properties were determined by ELISA assays. Cell migration was assessed using a wound healing assay, while ECM protein synthesis and gene expression were analysed, respectively, by immunofluorescence microscopy and PCR. Immunohistochemistry of human skin explants was employed to further investigate the induction of ECM proteins by pep_RTE62G ex vivo. Finally, the clinical effect of pep_RTE626 was evaluated in a proof of concept 28-day pilot study. In vitro testing confirmed that pep_RTE62G is an effective multi-functional anti-ageing ingredient. In HaCaTs, pep_RTE62G treatment significantly increases both cellular proliferation and migration. Similarly, in HDFs, pep_RTE62G consistently induced the neosynthesis of ECM protein elastin and collagen, effects that are upheld in human skin explants. Lastly, in our proof of concept clinical study, application of pep_RTE626 over 28 days demonstrated anti-wrinkle and collagen stimulatory potential. pep_RTE62G represents a natural, unmodified peptide with AI-predicted and experimentally validated anti-ageing properties. Our results affirm the utility of AI in the discovery of novel, functional topical ingredients. À mesure que la peau vieillit, une altération de la synthèse des protéines de la matrice extracellulaire (ECM) et une action accrue des enzymes dégradantes se manifestent par une atrophie, des rides et un laxisme. Il existe de plus en plus de preuves du rôle fonctionnel des peptides exogènes dans de nombreux domaines, y compris pour compenser les effets du vieillissement cutané. Ici, en utilisant une approche d'intelligence artificielle (AI), nous avons identifié le peptide RTE62G (pep_RTE62G), un peptide naturel non modifié avec des propriétés de stimulation ECM. Les propriétés anti-âge prédites par l'IA de pep_RTE62G ont ensuite été validées par des tests cliniques in vitro, ex vivo et de validation de principe. LES MÉTHODES: Une approche d'apprentissage en profondeur a été appliquée pour déverrouiller pep_RTE62G à partir d'une source végétale, Pisum sativum (pois). Des tests de culture cellulaire de fibroblastes dermiques humains (HDF) et de kératinocytes (HaCaTs) ont ensuite été utilisés pour évaluer l'effet in vitro de pep_RTE62G. Des activités distinctes telles que la prolifération cellulaire et les propriétés de production de protéines ECM ont été déterminées par des tests ELISA. La migration cellulaire a été évaluée à l'aide d'un test de cicatrisation des plaies, tandis que la synthèse des protéines ECM et l'expression des gènes ont été analysées, respectivement, par microscopie à immunofluorescence et PCR. L'immunohistochimie des explants de peau humaine a été utilisée pour approfondir l'induction des protéines ECM par pep_RTE62G ex vivo. Enfin, l'effet clinique de pep_RTE626 a été évalué dans une étude pilote de 28 jours de validation de principe. RÉSULTATS: Les tests in vitro ont confirmé que pep_RTE62G est un ingrédient anti-âge multifonctionnel efficace. Dans HaCaTs, le traitement pep_RTE62G augmente de manière significative à la fois la prolifération et la migration cellulaire. De même, dans les HDF, pep_RTE62G a induit de manière cohérente la néosynthèse de la protéine ECM élastine et collagène, effets qui sont maintenus dans les explants de peau humaine. Enfin, dans notre étude clinique de preuve de concept, l'application de pep_RTE626 sur 28 jours a démontré un potentiel stimulant anti-rides et collagène. pep_RTE62G représente un peptide naturel, non modifié avec des propriétés anti-âge prédites par l'IA et validées expérimentalement. Nos résultats confirment l'utilité de l'IA dans la découverte de nouveaux ingrédients topiques fonctionnels.
Plant hormones have various functions in plants and play crucial roles in all developmental and differentiation stages. Auxins constitute one of the most important groups with the major representative indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). A halogenated derivate of IAA, 4-chloro-indole-3-acetic acid (4-Cl-IAA), has previously been identified in
Recent findings indicate that Nod factor signalling is tightly interconnected with phytohormonal regulation that affects the development of nodules. Since the mechanisms of this interaction are still far from understood, here the distribution of cytokinin and auxin in pea (Pisum sativum) nodules was investigated. In addition, the effect of certain mutations blocking rhizobial infection and subsequent plant cell and bacteroid differentiation on cytokinin distribution in nodules was analysed. Patterns of cytokinin and auxin in pea nodules were profiled using both responsive genetic constructs and antibodies. In wild-type nodules, cytokinins were found in the meristem, infection zone and apical part of the nitrogen fixation zone, whereas auxin localization was restricted to the meristem and peripheral tissues. We found significantly altered cytokinin distribution in sym33 and sym40 pea mutants defective in IPD3/CYCLOPS and EFD transcription factors, respectively. In the sym33 mutants impaired in bacterial accommodation and subsequent nodule differentiation, cytokinin localization was mostly limited to the meristem. In addition, we found significantly decreased expression of LOG1 and A-type RR11 as well as KNOX3 and NIN genes in the sym33 mutants, which correlated with low cellular cytokinin levels. In the sym40 mutant, cytokinins were detected in the nodule infection zone but, in contrast to the wild type, they were absent in infection droplets. In conclusion, our findings suggest that enhanced cytokinin accumulation during the late stages of symbiosis development may be associated with bacterial penetration into the plant cells and subsequent plant cell and bacteroid differentiation.
The nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) pathway presents a challenge for RNA viruses with termination codons that precede extended 3' untranslated regions (UTRs). The umbravirus
Plastids differentiate into various functional types (chloroplasts, leucoplasts, chromoplasts, etc.) that have distinct proteomes depending on the specific tissue. Most plastid proteins are encoded by the nuclear genome, synthesized as higher molecular mass preproteins with an N-terminal transit peptide, and then posttranslationally imported from the cytosol. Evidence for tissue-specific regulation of import into plastids, and subsequent modulation of plastid proteomes, has been lacking. We quantified protein import into isolated pea (
Control of flowering time has been a major focus of comparative genetic analyses in plant development. This study reports on a forward genetic approach to define previously uncharacterized components of flowering control pathways in the long-day legume, pea (
Hyperlipidemia is closely related to oxidative stress, and it has been proved that the intake of legumes can protect the body from chronic diseases related to oxidative stress. In this study, we investigated the protective effects of mung beans and peas against high-fat-diet-induced rats. It was found that, with 50% addition of mung beans or peas, the intake of mung beans and peas could significantly restore the levels of serum total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Liver staining also showed that high-fat diet (HFD) led to liver lesions, whereas whole-grain intake could significantly relieve these symptoms. Compared with the HFD group, the antioxidant defense system and antioxidant gene expression in administered legume groups improved markedly. Furthermore, the antioxidant activities of the two legume extracts were determined. Characterization showed that the ethanol extracts of mung beans and peas possessed high antioxidant activities, for their ability to scavenge ABTS and DPPH, reduce Fe
Lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) are a class of small, cationic proteins that bind and transfer lipids and play an important role in plant defense. However, their precise biological role in plants under adverse conditions including salinity and possible regulation by stress hormone abscisic acid (ABA) remains unknown. In this work, we studied the localization of LTPs and ABA in the roots of pea plants using specific antibodies. Presence of LTPs was detected on the periphery of the cells mainly located in the phloem. Mild salt stress (50 mM NaCI) led to slowing plant growth and higher immunostaining for LTPs in the phloem. The deposition of suberin in Casparian bands located in the endoderma revealed with Sudan III was shown to be more intensive under salt stress and coincided with the increased LTP staining. All obtained data suggest possible functions of LTPs in pea roots. We assume that these proteins can participate in stress-induced pea root suberization or in transport of phloem lipid molecules. Salt stress increased ABA immunostaining in pea root cells but its localization was different from that of the LTPs. Thus, we failed to confirm the hypothesis regarding the direct influence of ABA on the level of LTPs in the salt-stressed root cells.
Although control of xylem ion loading is essential to confer salinity stress tolerance, specific details behind this process remain elusive. In this work, we compared the kinetics of xylem Na+ and K+ loading between two halophytes (Atriplex lentiformis and quinoa) and two glycophyte (pea and beans) species, to understand the mechanistic basis of the above process. Halophyte plants had high initial amounts of Na+ in the leaf, even when grown in the absence of the salt stress. This was matched by 7-fold higher xylem sap Na+ concentration compared with glycophyte plants. Upon salinity exposure, the xylem sap Na+ concentration increased rapidly but transiently in halophytes, while in glycophytes this increase was much delayed. Electrophysiological experiments using the microelectrode ion flux measuring technique showed that glycophyte plants tend to re-absorb Na+ back into the stele, thus reducing xylem Na+ load at the early stages of salinity exposure. The halophyte plants, however, were capable to release Na+ even in the presence of high Na+ concentrations in the xylem. The presence of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) [mimicking NaCl stress-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation in the root] caused a massive Na+ and Ca2+ uptake into the root stele, while triggering a substantial K+ efflux from the cytosol into apoplast in glycophyte but not halophytes species. The peak in H2O2 production was achieved faster in halophytes (30 min vs 4 h) and was attributed to the increased transcript levels of RbohE. Pharmacological data suggested that non-selective cation channels are unlikely to play a major role in ROS-mediated xylem Na+ loading.
Hair loss affects millions of people worldwide, but currently available treatment options are often dissatisfying due to side effects or limited efficacy. Pea sprout extract has been shown to improve hair density when applied topically, but its mode of action and effectiveness upon oral administration remain unknown. Our study has now shown that the application of a fluid containing 2% pea sprout extract on a defined scalp zone of 10 volunteers enhances the expression of defined genes relevant for hair, namely fibroblast growth factor-7 (FGF7) and noggin, by 56 and 85%, respectively. Additionally, a subsequent pilot nutrition intervention study in 21 volunteers proved that pea sprout extract is also effective when consumed as dietary supplement. The daily intake of 100 mg pea sprout extract (AnaGain™ Nu) for 8 weeks significantly reduced hair loss already after 28 days of treatment (p < 0.002). No adverse events were reported. Consequently, pea sprout extract may be an effective means to safely promote hair growth and reduce hair loss in individuals experiencing excessive hair shedding.
Pea powdery mildew (PM) is an important fungal disease caused by an obligate biotroph, Erysiphe pisi (Ep), which significantly impacts pea production worldwide. The phytopathogen secretes a plethora of effectors, primarily through specialized infection structures termed haustoria, to establish a dynamic relationship with its host. To identify Ep effector candidates, a cDNA library of enriched haustoria from Ep-infected pea leaves was sequenced. The Ep transcriptome encodes 622 Ep candidate secreted proteins (CSPs), of which 167 were predicted to be candidate secreted effector proteins (CSEPs). Phylogenetic analysis indicates that Ep CSEPs are highly diverse, but, unlike cereal PM CSEPs, exhibit extensive sequence similarity with effectors from other PMs. Quantitative real-time PCR of a subset of EpCSEP/CSPs revealed that the majority are preferentially expressed in haustoria and exhibit infection stage-specific expression patterns. The functional roles of EpCSEP001, EpCSEP009 and EpCSP083 were probed by host-induced gene silencing (HIGS) via a double-stranded (ds) RNA-mediated RNAi approach. Foliar application of individual EpCSEP/CSP dsRNAs resulted in a marked reduction in PM disease symptoms. These findings were consistent with microscopic and molecular studies, suggesting that these Ep CSEP/CSPs play important roles in pea PM pathogenesis. Homology modelling revealed that EpCSEP001 and EpCSEP009 are analogous to fungal ribonucleases and belong to the RALPH family of effectors. This is the first study to identify and functionally validate candidate effectors from the agriculturally relevant pea PM, and highlights the utility of transcriptomics and HIGS to elucidate the key proteins associated with Ep pathogenesis.
Sugar transporters play a crucial role for plant productivity, as they coordinate sugar fluxes from source leaf towards sink organs (seed, fruit, root) and regulate the supply of carbon resources towards the microorganisms of the rhizosphere (bacteria and fungi). Thus, sugar fluxes mediated by SUT (sucrose transporters), MST (monosaccharide transporters) and SWEET (sugar will eventually be exported transporters) families are key determinants of crop yield and shape the microbial communities living in the soil. In this work, we performed a systematic search for sugar transporters in Fabaceae genomes, focusing on model and agronomical plants. Here, we update the inventory of sugar transporter families mining the latest version of the Medicago truncatula genome and identify for the first time SUT MST and SWEET families of the agricultural crop Pisum sativum. The sugar transporter families of these Fabaceae species comprise respectively 7 MtSUT 7 PsSUT, 72 MtMST 59 PsMST and 26 MtSWEET 22 PsSWEET. Our comprehensive phylogenetic analysis sets a milestone for the scientific community, as we propose a new and simple nomenclature to correctly name SUT MST and SWEET families. Then, we searched for transcriptomic data available for our gene repertoire. We show that several clusters of homologous genes are co-expressed in different organs, suggesting that orthologous sugar transporters may have a conserved function. We focused our analysis on gene candidates that may be involved in remobilizing resources during flowering, grain filling and in allocating carbon towards roots colonized by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and Rhizobia. Our findings open new perspectives for agroecological applications in legume crops, as for instance improving the yield and quality of seed productions and promoting the use of symbiotic microorganisms.
Seed development largely depends on the long-distance transport of sucrose from photosynthetically active source leaves to seed sinks. This source-to-sink carbon allocation occurs in the phloem and requires the loading of sucrose into the leaf phloem and, at the sink end, its import into the growing embryo. Both tasks are achieved through the function of SUT sucrose transporters. In this study, we used vegetable peas (Pisum sativum L.), harvested for human consumption as immature seeds, as our model crop and simultaneously overexpressed the endogenous SUT1 transporter in the leaf phloem and in cotyledon epidermal cells where import into the embryo occurs. Using this 'Push-and-Pull' approach, the transgenic SUT1 plants displayed increased sucrose phloem loading and carbon movement from source to sink causing higher sucrose levels in developing pea seeds. The enhanced sucrose partitioning further led to improved photosynthesis rates, increased leaf nitrogen assimilation, and enhanced source-to-sink transport of amino acids. Embryo loading with amino acids was also increased in SUT1-overexpressors resulting in higher protein levels in immature seeds. Further, transgenic plants grown until desiccation produced more seed protein and starch, as well as higher seed yields than the wild-type plants. Together, the results demonstrate that the SUT1-overexpressing plants with enhanced sucrose allocation to sinks adjust leaf carbon and nitrogen metabolism, and amino acid partitioning in order to accommodate the increased assimilate demand of growing seeds. We further provide evidence that the combined Push-and-Pull approach for enhancing carbon transport is a successful strategy for improving seed yields and nutritional quality in legumes.
We report the first annotated chromosome-level reference genome assembly for pea, Gregor Mendel's original genetic model. Phylogenetics and paleogenomics show genomic rearrangements across legumes and suggest a major role for repetitive elements in pea genome evolution. Compared to other sequenced Leguminosae genomes, the pea genome shows intense gene dynamics, most likely associated with genome size expansion when the Fabeae diverged from its sister tribes. During Pisum evolution, translocation and transposition differentially occurred across lineages. This reference sequence will accelerate our understanding of the molecular basis of agronomically important traits and support crop improvement.
The biotrophic fungus, Erysiphe pisi is the chief causal agent of powdery mildew disease of garden pea. A genome-wide search using in-silico approach was carried to detect putative pathogenicity and virulence genes of E. pisi, since information about these genes and their interaction with pea is limited. Nineteen putative pathogenicity gene sequences were detected through genome-wide pathogenicity gene-search and confirmed them to be conserved in E. pisi through genomic PCRs. Fifteen of these genes expressed through reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) amplifying expected band size along with fungal and plant specific internal controls. Gene sequencing and annotation revealed them to be Erysiphe-specific. A time course study was carried to monitor expression of nine of these genes through real-time quantitative (qRT)-PCR in Erysiphe-challenged plants of powdery mildew resistant pea genotype, JI-2480 carrying er2 gene and susceptible pea cultivar, Arkel. Expression of these genes was differentially and temporally regulated. They were found mostly related to signaling; cAMP-PKA (cPKA, CRP and AC) and MAPK (MST7) pathways along with MFP, TRE and PEX which are reported pathogenicity factors in other ascomycete members indicating that similar conserved pathways function in E. pisi also. These genes expressed at higher level at initial hours post inoculation (hpi) as early as 6 hpi in Arkel compared to JI-2480 implying them as pathogenicity factors. The elevated level of expression of MFP, TRE, CRP and cPKA gene sequences in E. pisi-challenged JI-2480 genotype at 12 hpi alone suggests these genes to possess a role in avirulence in JI-2480, conferring er2 mediated resistance.
To clarify the mechanism of gravity-controlled polar auxin transport, we conducted the International Space Station (ISS) experiment "Auxin Transport" (identified by NASA's operation nomenclature) in 2016 and 2017, focusing on the expression of genes related to auxin efflux carrier protein PsPIN1 and its localization in the hook and epicotyl cells of etiolated Alaska pea seedlings grown for three days in the dark under microgravity (μg) and artificial 1 g conditions on a centrifuge in the Cell Biology Experiment Facility (CBEF) in the ISS, and under 1 g conditions on Earth. Regardless of gravity conditions, the accumulation of PsPIN1 mRNA in the proximal side of epicotyls of the seedlings was not different, but tended to be slightly higher as compared with that in the distal side. 2,3,5-Triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA) also did not affect the accumulation of PsPIN1 mRNA in the proximal and distal sides of epicotyls. However, in the apical hook region, TIBA increased the accumulation of PsPIN1 mRNA under μg conditions as compared with that under artificial 1 g conditions in the ISS. The accumulation of PsPIN1 proteins in epicotyls determined by western blotting was almost parallel to that of mRNA of PsPIN1. Immunohistochemical analysis with a specific polyclonal antibody of PsPIN1 revealed that a majority of PsPIN1 in the apical hook and subapical regions of the seedlings grown under artificial 1 g conditions in the ISS localized in the basal side (rootward) of the plasma membrane of the endodermal tissues. Conversely, in the seedlings grown under μg conditions, localization of PsPIN1 was greatly disarrayed. TIBA substantially altered the cellular localization pattern of PsPIN1, especially under μg conditions. These results strongly suggest that the mechanisms by which gravity controls polar auxin transport are more likely to be due to the membrane localization of PsPIN1. This physiologically valuable report describes a close relationship between gravity-controlled polar auxin transport and the localization of auxin efflux carrier PsPIN1 in etiolated pea seedlings based on the μg experiment conducted in space.
Photorespiration sustains photosynthesis in the presence of oxygen due to rapid metabolization of 2-phosphoglycolate, the major side-product of the oxygenase activity of Rubisco that also directly impedes carbon assimilation and allocation. Despite the fact that both the biochemical reactions and the underlying genetics are well characterized, information concerning the regulatory mechanisms that adjust photorespiratory flux is rare. Here, we studied the impact of mitochondrial-localized thioredoxin o1 (TRXo1) on photorespiratory metabolism. The characterization of an Arabidopsis (
Plant extracts have recently been used as exogenous adjuvants to strengthen the endogenous plant defense systems when they grow under different environmental stresses, including salinity. The study aimed at determining the effects of seed soaking using licorice root extract (LRE) on photosynthesis and antioxidant defense systems, including transcript levels of enzyme-encoding genes in pea seedling grown under 150 mM NaCl-salinity. Salt stress reduced seedling growth, photosynthesis attributes, and K
Genetic engineered male sterility has different applications, ranging from hybrid seed production to bioconfinement of transgenes in genetic modified crops. The impact of this technology is currently patent in a wide range of crops, including legumes, which has helped to deal with the challenges of global food security. Production of engineered male sterile plants by expression of a ribonuclease gene under the control of an anther- or pollen-specific promoter has proven to be an efficient way to generate pollen-free elite cultivars. In the last years, we have been studying the genetic control of flower development in legumes and several genes that are specifically expressed in a determinate floral organ were identified.
Inactivation of abscisic acid (ABA) in vitro may be catalyzed either by ABA 8'-hydroxylase (ABA8'OH) or by ABA uridine diphosphate glucosyltransferase (ABAUGT), which conjugates ABA with glucose. However, the involvement of these enzymes in the control of ABA content in vivo, especially ABAUGT, has not been fully elucidated. In pea seeds, both PsABAUGT1 and PsABA8'OH1 contribute to the reduction of ABA content during seed maturation and imbibition; however, during the first hours of imbibition, a high expression of only PsABAUGT1 was observed. Imbibition of seeds with H
Plants encounter beneficial and detrimental microorganisms both above- and belowground and the health status of the plant depends on the composition of this pan-microbiome. Beneficial microorganisms contribute to plant nutrition or systemically or locally protect plants against pathogens, thus facilitating adaptation to a variety of environments. Induced systemic resistance, caused by root-associated microbes, manifests as aboveground resistance against necrotrophic pathogens and is mediated by jasmonic acid/ethylene-dependent signaling. By contrast, systemic acquired resistance relies on salicylic acid (SA) signaling and confers resistance against secondary infection by (hemi)biotrophic pathogens. To investigate whether symbiotic rhizobia that are ubiquitously found in natural ecosystems are able to modulate resistance against biotrophs, we tested the impact of preestablished nodulation of
Legume crops represent the major source of food protein and contribute to human nutrition and animal feeding. An essential improvement of their productivity can be achieved by symbiosis with beneficial soil microorganisms-rhizobia (Rh) and arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. The efficiency of these interactions depends on plant genotype. Recently, we have shown that, after simultaneous inoculation with Rh and AM, the productivity gain of pea (
Large collections of pea symbiotic mutants were accumulated in the 1990s, but the causal genes for a large portion of the mutations are still not identified due to the complexity of the task. We applied a Mapping-by-Sequencing approach including Bulk Segregant Analysis and Massive Analysis of cDNA Ends (MACE-Seq) sequencing technology for genetic mapping the
Interspecific interaction with host plants have important consequences for the host race formation of herbivorous insects. Plant secondary metabolites, particularly those that are involved in host races specializing on plants, warrant the theory of host specialization.
Gene editing is becoming the plant breeding tool of choice, but prior to targeting a gene for editing, a knowledge of the gene family members (GFMs) controlling yield is required in the specific crop plant. Critical to yield are components from senescing leaves. We targeted genes controlling senescence in
E. pisi is an ascomycete member causing powdery mildew disease of garden pea. It is a biotrophic pathogen, requiring a living host for its survival. Our understanding of molecular mechanisms underlying its pathogenesis is limited. The identification of proteins expressed in the pathogen is required to gain an insight into the functional mechanisms of an obligate biotrophic fungal pathogen. In this study, the proteome of the anamorphic stage of E. pisi pathogen has been elucidated through the nano LC-MS/MS approach. A total of 328 distinct proteins were detected from Erysiphe isolates infecting the susceptible pea cultivar, Arkel. The proteome is available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD010238. The functional classification of protein accessions based on Gene Ontology revealed proteins related to signal transduction, secondary metabolite formation and stress which might be involved in virulence and pathogenesis. The functional validation carried through differential expression of genes encoding G-protein beta subunit, a Cyclophilin (Peptidyl prolyl cis-transisomerase) and ABC transporter in a time course study confirmed their putative role in pathogenesis between resistant and susceptible genotypes, JI2480 and Arkel. The garden pea-powdery mildew pathosystem is largely unexplored, therefore, the identified proteome provides a first-hand information and will form a basis to analyze mechanisms involving pathogen survival, pathogenesis and virulence.
Two common classes of nitrogen-fixing legume root nodules are those that have determinate or indeterminate meristems, as in Phaseolus bean and pea, respectively. In indeterminate nodules, rhizobia terminally differentiate into bacteroids with endoreduplicated genomes, whereas bacteroids from determinate nodules are less differentiated and can regrow. We used RNA sequencing to compare bacteroid gene expression in determinate and indeterminate nodules using two Rhizobium leguminosarum strains whose genomes differ due to replacement of the symbiosis (Sym) plasmid pRP2 (strain Rlp4292) with pRL1 (strain RlvA34), thereby switching symbiosis hosts from Phaseolus bean (determinate nodules) to pea (indeterminate nodules). Both bacteroid types have gene expression patterns typical of a stringent response, a stressful environment and catabolism of dicarboxylates, formate, amino acids and quaternary amines. Gene expression patterns were indicative that bean bacteroids were more limited for phosphate, sulphate and iron than pea bacteroids. Bean bacteroids had higher levels of expression of genes whose products are predicted to be associated with metabolite detoxification or export. Pea bacteroids had increased expression of genes associated with DNA replication, membrane synthesis and the TCA (tricarboxylic acid) cycle. Analysis of bacteroid-specific transporter genes was indicative of distinct differences in sugars and other compounds in the two nodule environments. Cell division genes were down-regulated in pea but not bean bacteroids, while DNA synthesis was increased in pea bacteroids. This is consistent with endoreduplication of pea bacteroids and their failure to regrow once nodules senesce.
We examined the genome of the soybean aphid, Aphis glycines, and an updated genome assembly of the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum, for members of the three major families of chemoreceptors, the Odorant Receptors (ORs), Gustatory Receptors (GRs) and Ionotropic Receptors (IRs), as well as the Odorant Binding Proteins (OBPs). The soybean aphid has 47 ORs, 61 GRs, 19 IRs, and 10 OBPs, compared with 87 ORs, 78 Grs, 19 IRs, and 18 OBPs in the pea aphid, with variable numbers of pseudogenes in the OR and GR families. Phylogenetic analysis reveals that while all of the IRs are simple orthologs between these two species, the OR, GR, and OBP families in the pea aphid have experienced major expansions of particular gene lineages and fewer losses of gene lineages. This imbalance in birth-and-death of chemosensory genes has led to the larger pea aphid gene repertoire, which might be related to the broader host range of pea aphids versus the specialization of soybean aphids on a single summer host plant. Examination of the expression levels of these chemosensory genes in parthenogenetic and sexual females and males of pea aphids revealed multiple genes that are differentially expressed in sexual females or males and might be involved in reproductive biology. Examination of the soybean aphid genes in parthenogenetic females under multiple stressors revealed multiple genes whose expression levels changed with heat or starvation stress, the latter potentially important in finding new food sources.
PsLecRLK overexpression in rice provides tolerance against salinity stress and cause upregulation of SOS1 pathway genes, which are responsible for extrusion of excess Na+ ion under stress condition. Soil salinity is one of the most devastating factors threatening cultivable land. Rice is a major staple crop and immensely affected by soil salinity. The small genome size of rice relative to wheat and barley, together with its salt sensitivity, makes it an ideal candidate for studies on salt stress response caused by a particular gene. Under stress conditions crosstalk between organelles and cell to cell response is imperative. LecRLK is an important family, which plays a key role under stress conditions and regulates the physiology of the plant. Here we have functionally validated the PsLecRLK gene in rice for salinity stress tolerance and hypothesized the model for its working. Salt stress sensitive rice variety IR64 was used for developing marker-free transgenic with modified binary vector pCAMBIA1300 overexpressing PsLecRLK gene. Comparison of transgenic and wild-type (WT) plants showed better physiological and biochemical results in transgenic lines with a low level of ROS, MDA and ion accumulation and a higher level of proline, relative water content, root/shoot ration, enzymatic activities of ROS scavengers and upregulation of stress-responsive genes. Based on the relative expression of stress-responsive genes and ionic content, the working model highlights the role of PsLecRLK in the extrusion of Na
Real-time gene expression analysis by semi-quantitative and quantitative RT-PCR requires a set of gene-specific primers which should have the ability to amplify the gene of interest specifically. In the present study, we have standardized certain parameters for primer design using the freely available Primer3 software. We have designed the primers for defense genes such as ICS (isochorismate synthase), CCoAOMT (caffeoyl CoA
Apical dominance is the process whereby the shoot tip inhibits the growth of axillary buds along the stem. It has been proposed that the shoot tip, which is the predominant source of the plant hormone auxin, prevents bud outgrowth by suppressing auxin canalization and export from axillary buds into the main stem. In this theory, auxin flow out of axillary buds is a prerequisite for bud outgrowth, and buds are triggered to grow by an enhanced proportional flow of auxin from the buds. A major challenge of directly testing this model is in being able to create a bud- or stem-specific change in auxin transport. Here we evaluate the relationship between specific changes in auxin efflux from axillary buds and bud outgrowth after shoot tip removal (decapitation) in the pea (
Control of organ size and shape by cell proliferation and cell expansion is a fundamental process during plant development, but the molecular mechanisms that set the final size and shape of determinate organs in plants remain unclear, especially in legumes. In this study, we characterized several mutants including bigger organs (bio) and elephant-ear-like leaf 1 (ele1) in pea that displayed similar phenotypes, with enlarged leaves and symmetrical lateral and ventral petals. Genetic analysis showed that BIO interacted with the specific regulators SYMMETRICAL PETAL1 (SYP1) and SYP5 to control floral organ internal asymmetry in pea. Using a comparative approach, we cloned BIO and ELE1, revealing that they encode a KIX domain protein and an ortholog of Arabidopsis PEAPOD (PPD), respectively. Furthermore, genetic analysis, physical interaction assays, and gene expression analysis showed that BIO and ELE1 physically interact with each other and with the transcription factor LATHYROIDES (LATH) to repress expression of downstream genes such as GROWTH-REGULATING-FACTOR 5. Our data show that the BIO-ELE1 module in legumes plays a key role in regulating organ development to create distinct final forms with characteristic size and shape.
Oxidative stress can occur in different parts of plant cells. We employed two oxidants that induce reactive oxygen species (ROS) in different intracellular compartments: methyl viologen (MV, in chloroplasts) and menadione (MD, in mitochondria). The responses of pea (Pisum sativum) leaf discs to MV or MD after 4-h incubation in dark or moderate (300 μE m
Ectoapyrases (ecto-NTPDases) function to decrease levels of extracellular ATP and ADP in animals and plants. Prior studies showed that ectopic expression of a pea ectoapyrase, psNTP9, enhanced growth in Arabidopsis seedlings and that the overexpression of the two Arabidopsis apyrases most closely related to psNTP9 enhanced auxin transport and growth in Arabidopsis. These results predicted that ectopic expression of psNTP9 could promote a more extensive root system architecture (RSA) in Arabidopsis. We confirmed that transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings had longer primary roots, more lateral roots, and more and longer root hairs than wild-type plants. Because RSA influences water uptake, we tested whether the transgenic plants could tolerate osmotic stress and water deprivation better than wild-type plants, and we confirmed these properties. Transcriptomic analyses revealed gene expression changes in the transgenic plants that helped account for their enhanced RSA and improved drought tolerance. The effects of psNTP9 were not restricted to Arabidopsis, because its expression in soybeans improved the RSA, growth, and seed yield of this crop and supported higher survival in response to drought. Our results indicate that in both Arabidopsis and soybeans, the constitutive expression of psNTP9 results in a more extensive RSA and improved survival in drought stress conditions.
DNA replication and continuous process of transcription during ongoing amitotic division accelerate the development of four-celled pea suspensor containing nuclei which create transient gradient of polyploidy necessary for correct embryo development. A suspensor, the link between embryo proper and surrounding tissues, differs significantly in size, morphology, and degree of polyploidy among the species. The suspensor of Pisum sativum consists of four polynuclear cells (two hemispherical and two elongated) formed in two layers. Their nuclei undergo endoreplication reaching, respectively, up to 256C and 128-256C DNA levels in its hemispherical and elongated parts. Our study shows that endoreplication first appears in the spherical part of the suspensor, and, subsequently, in the elongated one. At the next stages of suspensor development, the increase in DNA content takes place also in a similar order. Thus, despite simple construction of the suspensor, its development, supported by endoreplication, creates a certain gradient of polyploidy, which occurs in more extensive suspensors. Moreover, the rapid development of suspensor is supported both by the initiation of DNA replication prior to the completion of amitotic division of its polyploidal nuclei and by a continuous process of transcription, which is silenced by chromatin condensation throughout mitosis. Furthermore, the increase in DNA content correlates with the greater amount of transcripts; however, the multiplication of DNA copies does not entail an increase (but fluctuation) in the mean transcriptional activity of a particular nucleus during the next stages of suspensor development.
Plant thylakoid membranes contain hundreds of proteins that closely interact to cope with ever-changing environmental conditions. We investigated how Pisum sativum L. (pea) grown at different irradiances optimizes light-use efficiency through the differential accumulation of thylakoid proteins. Thylakoid membranes from plants grown under low (LL), moderate (ML) and high (HL) light intensity were characterized by combining chlorophyll fluorescence measurements with quantitative label-free proteomic analysis. Protein sequences retrieved from available transcriptomic data considerably improved thylakoid proteome profiling, increasing the quantifiable proteins from 63 to 194. The experimental approach used also demonstrates that this integrative omics strategy is powerful for unravelling protein isoforms and functions that are still unknown in non-model organisms. We found that the different growth irradiances affect the electron transport kinetics but not the relative abundance of photosystems (PS) I and II. Two acclimation strategies were evident. The behaviour of plants acclimated to LL was compared at higher irradiances: (i) in ML, plants turn on photoprotective responses mostly modulating the PSII light-harvesting capacity, either accumulating Lhcb4.3 or favouring the xanthophyll cycle; (ii) in HL, plants reduce the pool of light-harvesting complex II and enhance the PSII repair cycle. When growing at ML and HL, plants accumulate ATP synthase, boosting both cyclic and linear electron transport by finely tuning the ΔpH across the membrane and optimizing protein trafficking by adjusting the thylakoid architecture. Our results provide a quantitative snapshot of how plants coordinate light harvesting, electron transport and protein synthesis by adjusting the thylakoid membrane proteome in a light-dependent manner.
Legumes fix atmospheric nitrogen through a symbiotic relationship with bacteroids in root nodules. Following fixation in pea (Pisum sativum L.) nodules, nitrogen is reduced to amino acids that are exported via the nodule xylem to the shoot, and in the phloem to roots in support of growth. However, the mechanisms involved in amino acid movement towards the nodule vasculature, and their importance for nodule function and plant nutrition, were unknown. We found that in pea nodules the apoplasmic pathway is an essential route for amino acid partitioning from infected cells to the vascular bundles, and that amino acid permease PsAAP6 is a key player in nitrogen retrieval from the apoplasm into inner cortex cells for nodule export. Using an miRNA interference (miR) approach, it was demonstrated that PsAAP6 function in nodules, and probably in roots, and affects both shoot and root nitrogen supply, which were strongly decreased in PsAAP6-miR plants. Further, reduced transporter function resulted in increased nodule levels of ammonium, asparagine, and other amino acids. Surprisingly, nitrogen fixation and nodule metabolism were up-regulated in PsAAP6-miR plants, indicating that under shoot nitrogen deficiency, or when plant nitrogen demand is high, systemic signaling leads to an increase in nodule activity, independent of the nodule nitrogen status.
The mechanism by which gravity controls the polar transport of auxin, a plant hormone regulating multiple physiological processes in higher plants, remains unclear, although an important role of PIN proteins as efflux carriers/facilitators in polar auxin transport is suggested. We are going to study the effect of microgravity on the polar transport of auxin, focusing on the cellular localization of its efflux carrier, PsPIN1 in etiolated pea seedlings and ZmPIN1a in etiolated maize seedlings grown under microgravity conditions on the International Space Station (ISS) using immunohistochemical analyses according to space experimental plans (Ueda, 2016). To obtain adequate results regarding the cellular localization of functional proteins, prolonged chemical fixation processes as well as chemical fixatives should be well-matched to the properties of functional proteins as antigens since experimental analyses will be performed on the ground after keeping samples for a long duration on the ISS. As a result of ground verification, clear detection of the cellular localization of PsPIN1 and ZmPIN1a immunohistochemically was successful based on the results of several kinds of chemical fixation tested, even when etiolated pea and maize seedlings were fixed by immersion in chemical fixative for a long duration. The addition of 0.1% (w/v) Nonidet P-40 to chemical fixative composed of 50% (v/v) ethanol and 5% (v/v) acetic acid or that of 50% (v/v) methanol and 5% (v/v) acetic acid has led to a significant improvement in the immunohistochemical detection of PsPIN1 or ZmPIN1a. These chemical fixatives were also shown to be storage-stable for a long time before use. In this study, adequate chemical fixatives and fixation protocols were developed, which can be used to detect localization of PsPIN1 and ZmPIN1a proteins in young etiolated pea and maize seedlings, respectively, using anti PsPIN1 and ZmPIN1a antibodies. These protocols can be used in spaceflight experiments to investigate the effects of the microgravity environment on the ISS on PIN protein localization in pea and maize seedlings.
This study reports the development of a garden pea genotype 'VRPM-901-5' producing five flowers per peduncle at multiple flowering nodes, by using single plant selection approach from a cross 'VL-8 × PC-531'. In addition, five other stable genetic stocks, namely VRPM-501, VRPM-502, VRPM-503, VRPM-901-3 and VRPSeL-1 producing three flowers per peduncle at multiple flowering nodes were also developed. All these unique genotypes were of either mid- or late- maturity groups. Furthermore, these multi-flowering genotypes were identified during later generations (F4 onward), which might be because of fixation of certain QTLs or recessive gene combinations. Surprisingly, a common parent PC-531, imparting multi-flowering trait in ten cross combinations was identified. Thus, the genotype PC-531 seems to harbor some recessive gene(s) or QTLs that in certain combination(s) express the multi-flowering trait. The interaction between genotype and environment showed that temperature (11-20°C) plays a key role in expression of the multi-flowering trait besides genetic background. Furthermore, the possible relationship between various multi-flowering regulatory genes such as FN, FNA, NEPTUNE, SN, DNE, HR and environmental factors was also explored, and a comprehensive model explaining the multi-flowering trait in garden pea is proposed.
Diverse forms of leaves are present in nature. However, the regulatory mechanisms that underpin the development of diverse leaf forms remain enigmatic. The initiation of leaf primordia from the periphery of shoot apical meristem (SAM) requires downregulation of the class 1 knotted-like homeobox KNOXI proteins. In plants with simple leaves, this downregulation is permanent, consistent with leaves being determinant organs. In most of plants with compound leaves, the KNOXI proteins are reactivated in developing leaf primordia, and this reactivation is required for the development of compound leaves in these plants. Surprisingly, in Medicago truncatula and pea (Pisum sativum) that belong to the so-called inverted repeat-lacking clade (IRLC) of legume plants, the KNOXI proteins are not reactivated in leaf primordia and therefore not likely involved in the development of compound leaves in these plants. Instead, the legume FLORICAULA/LEAFY orthologues, UNIFOLIATA (UNI) and SINGLE LEAFLET1 (SGL1), are required for the initiation and development of lateral leaflet primordia in pea and M. truncatula plants, respectively. On the other hand, PALMATE-LIKE PENTAFOLIATA1 (PALM1) encoding a novel Cys(2)His(2) zinc finger transcription factor is required to suppress a morphogenetic activity at the leaf margin by negatively regulating SGL1 gene expression, and FUSED COMPOUND LEAF1 (FCL1) encoding a class M KNOX protein is required for the development of the leaf proximo-distal axis and organ boundary separation in M. truncatula. Thus, these recent studies have shown that SGL1/UNI, FCL1, and PALM1 provide a genetic framework for our understanding of compound leaf development in the legume plants.
The LysM receptor-like kinase K1 is involved in regulation of pea-rhizobial symbiosis development. The ability of the crop legume Pisum sativum L. to perceive the Nod factor rhizobial signals may depend on several receptors that differ in ligand structure specificity. Identification of pea mutants defective in two types of LysM receptor-like kinases (LysM-RLKs), SYM10 and SYM37, featuring different phenotypic manifestations and impaired at various stages of symbiosis development, corresponds well to this assumption. There is evidence that one of the receptor proteins involved in symbiosis initiation, SYM10, has an inactive kinase domain. This implies the presence of an additional component in the receptor complex, together with SYM10, that remains unknown. Here, we describe a new LysM-RLK, K1, which may serve as an additional component of the receptor complex in pea. To verify the function of K1 in symbiosis, several P. sativum non-nodulating mutants in the k1 gene were identified using the TILLING approach. Phenotyping revealed the blocking of symbiosis development at an appropriately early stage, strongly suggesting the importance of LysM-RLK K1 for symbiosis initiation. Moreover, the analysis of pea mutants with weaker phenotypes provides evidence for the additional role of K1 in infection thread distribution in the cortex and rhizobia penetration. The interaction between K1 and SYM10 was detected using transient leaf expression in Nicotiana benthamiana and in the yeast two-hybrid system. Since the possibility of SYM10/SYM37 complex formation was also shown, we tested whether the SYM37 and K1 receptors are functionally interchangeable using a complementation test. The interaction between K1 and other receptors is discussed.
Symbiotic interactions between legume plants and rhizobia result in the formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules, but the molecular actors and the mechanisms allowing for the maintenance of nodule identity are poorly understood.
Pea (Pisum sativum) is one of relatively few genetically amenable plant species with compound leaves. Pea leaves have a variety of specialized organs: leaflets, tendrils, pulvini and stipules, which enable the identification of mutations that transform or affect distinct parts of the leaf. Characterization of these mutations offers insights into the development and evolution of novel leaf traits. The previously characterized morphological gene Cochleata, conferring stipule identity, was known to interact with Stipules reduced (St), which conditions stipule size in pea, but the St gene remained unknown. Here we analysed Fast Neutron irradiated pea mutants by restriction site associated DNA sequencing. We identified St as a gene encoding a C2H2 zinc finger transcription factor that is regulated by Cochleata. St regulates both cell division and cell expansion in the stipule. Our approach shows how systematic genome-wide screens can be used successfully for the analysis of traits in species for which whole genome sequences are not available.
The leading cause of death in cancer patients is metastasis, for which an effective treatment is still necessary. During metastasis, cancer cells aberrantly express several glycans that are correlated with poor patient outcome. This study was aimed toward exploring the effects of O-GlcNAcylation on membranous N-glycans that are associated with the progression of cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). Global O-GlcNAcylation in CCA cells was depleted using specific siRNA against O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT), which transfers GlcNAc to the acceptor proteins. Using an HPLC-Chip/Time-of-Flight (Chip/TOF) MS system, the N-glycans associated with O-GlcNAcylation were identified by comparing the membranous N-glycans of siOGT-treated cells with those of scramble siRNA-treated cells. In parallel, the membranous N-glycans of the parental cells (KKU-213 and KKU-214) were compared with those of the highly metastatic cells (KKU-213L5 and KKU-214L5). Together, these data revealed that high mannose (Hex
Waterlogging causes germination failure in pea (Pisum sativum L.). Three genotypes (BARI Motorshuti-3, Natore local-2 [NL-2], and Kaspa) contrasting in ability to germinate in waterlogged soil were exposed to different durations of waterlogging. Whole genome RNAseq was employed to capture differentially expressing genes. The ability to germinate in waterlogged soil was associated with testa colour and testa membrane integrity as confirmed by electrical conductivity measurements. Genotypes Kaspa and NL-2 displayed different mechanisms of tolerance. In Kaspa, an energy conserving strategy was indicated by a strong upregulation of tyrosine protein kinsase and down regulation of linoleate 9S-lipoxygenase 5, a fat metabolism gene. In contrast, a faster energy utilization strategy was suggested in NL-2 by the marked upregulation of a subtilase family protein and peroxisomal adenine nucleotide carrier 2, a fat metabolizing gene. Waterlogging susceptibility in germinating seeds of genotype BARI Motorshuti-3 was linked to upregulation of a kunitz-type trypsin/protease inhibitor that blocks protein metabolism and may lead to excessive lipid metabolism and the membrane leakage associated with waterlogging damage. Pathway analyses based on gene ontologies showed seed storage protein metabolism as upregulated in tolerant genotypes and downregulated in the sensitive genotype. Understanding the tolerance mechanism provides a platform to breed for adaptation to waterlogging stress at germination in pea.
Legumes form root nodules to house beneficial nitrogen-fixing rhizobia bacteria. However, nodulation is resource demanding; hence, legumes evolved a systemic signalling mechanism called autoregulation of nodulation (AON) to control nodule numbers. AON begins with the production of CLE peptides in the root, which are predicted to be glycosylated, transported to the shoot, and perceived. We synthesized variants of nodulation-suppressing CLE peptides to test their activity using petiole feeding to introduce CLE peptides into the shoot. Hydroxylated, monoarabinosylated, and triarabinosylated variants of soybean GmRIC1a and GmRIC2a were chemically synthesized and fed into recipient Pisum sativum (pea) plants, which were used due to the availability of key AON pathway mutants unavailable in soybean. Triarabinosylated GmRIC1a and GmRIC2a suppressed nodulation of wild-type pea, whereas no other peptide variant tested had this ability. Suppression also occurred in the supernodulating hydroxyproline O-arabinosyltransferase mutant, Psnod3, but not in the supernodulating receptor mutants, Pssym29, and to some extent, Pssym28. During our study, bioinformatic resources for pea became available and our analyses identified 40 CLE peptide-encoding genes, including orthologues of nodulation-suppressive CLE peptides. Collectively, we demonstrated that soybean nodulation-suppressive CLE peptides can function interspecifically in the AON pathway of pea and require arabinosylation for their activity.
Cytokinins are essential for legume plants to establish a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis with rhizobia. Recently, the expression level of cytokinin biosynthesis
Fusarium root rot is a major pea disease in Canada and only partial tolerance exists in germplasm. Transgenic technologies may hold promise but the economic benefits of genetically modified (GM) pea will need to surpass the regulatory costs, time and labor involved in bringing a GM crop to market. European pea (Pisum sativum L.) cultivars expressing four antifungal genes, 1-3 β glucanase (G), endochitinase (C) (belonging to PR proteins family), polygalacturonase inhibiting proteins (PGIPs) (P) and stilbene synthase (V) have been transformed for disease tolerance and showed disease tolerance under laboratory conditions. Transgenic lines with four antifungal genes inserted either individually or stacked through crossing were tested for their efficacy against Fusarium root rot (Fusarium avenaceum) in confined trials over three years (2013 to 2015) in comparison with two parental German lines and three Canadian lines. Superior emergence, higher fresh weight or lower disease ratings above and below ground, of transgenic lines in presence of disease inoculum were not observed consistently in the three years of field experiments when compared to the parental and Canadian lines in the presence of disease inoculum. No indication of an advantage of stacked genes over single genes was observed. Most transgenic lines had lower relative gene expression in the roots than in the leaves in greenhouse trials suggesting a possible explanation for poor tolerance to Fusarium root rot. Field trials are necessary to verify the agronomic performance and ecological relevance of the promising effects detected under laboratory conditions.
The agricultural crops are often affected by the scarcity of fresh water. Seasonal drought is a major constraint on Northeast Indian agriculture. Almost 80% of the agricultural land in this region is acidic and facing severe drought during the winter period. Apart from classical breeding and transgenic approaches, the application of plant-growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) is an alternative strategy for improving plant fitness under stressful conditions. The 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase-producing PGPB offer drought stress tolerance by regulating plant ethylene levels. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the consortium effect of three ACC-deaminase producing rhizobacteria - Ochrobactrum pseudogrignonenseRJ12, Pseudomonas sp.RJ15 and Bacillus subtilisRJ46 on drought stress alleviation in Vigna mungo L. and Pisum sativum L. Consortium treatment significantly increase seed germination percentage, root length, shoot length, and dry weight of treated plants. An elevated production of reactive oxygen species scavenging enzymes and cellular osmolytes; higher leaf chlorophyll content; increase in relative water content and root recovery intension were observed after consortium treatment in comparison with the uninoculated plants under drought conditions. The consortium treatment decreased the ACC accumulation and down-regulated ACC-oxidase gene expression. This consortium could be an effective bio-formulator for crop health improvement in drought-affected acidic agricultural fields.
Leguminous plant roots can form a symbiosis with soil-dwelling nitrogen-fixing rhizobia, leading to the formation of a new root organ, the nodule. Successful nodulation requires co-ordination of spatially separated events in the root, including infection in the root epidermis and nodule organogenesis deep in the root cortex. We show that the hormone gibberellin plays distinct roles in these epidermal and cortical programmes. We employed a unique set of genetic material in pea that includes severely gibberellin-deficient lines and della-deficient lines that enabled us to characterize all stages of infection and nodule development. We confirmed that gibberellin suppresses infection thread formation and show that it also promotes nodule organogenesis into nitrogen-fixing organs. In both cases, this is achieved through the action of DELLA proteins. This study therefore provides a mechanism to explain how both low and high gibberellin signalling can result in reduced nodule number and reveals a clear role for gibberellin in the maturation of nodules into nitrogen-fixing organs. We also demonstrate that gibberellin acts independently of ethylene in promoting nodule development.
Strigolactones (SL) fulfil important roles in plant development and stress tolerance. Here, we characterized the role of SL in the dark chilling tolerance of pea and Arabidopsis by analysis of mutants that are defective in either SL synthesis or signalling. Pea mutants (rms3, rms4, and rms5) had significantly greater shoot branching with higher leaf chlorophyll a/b ratios and carotenoid contents than the wild type. Exposure to dark chilling significantly decreased shoot fresh weights but increased leaf numbers in all lines. Moreover, dark chilling treatments decreased biomass (dry weight) accumulation only in rms3 and rms5 shoots. Unlike the wild type plants, chilling-induced inhibition of photosynthetic carbon assimilation was observed in the rms lines and also in the Arabidopsis max3-9, max4-1, and max2-1 mutants that are defective in SL synthesis or signalling. When grown on agar plates, the max mutant rosettes accumulated less biomass than the wild type. The synthetic SL, GR24, decreased leaf area in the wild type, max3-9, and max4-1 mutants but not in max2-1 in the absence of stress. In addition, a chilling-induced decrease in leaf area was observed in all the lines in the presence of GR24. We conclude that SL plays an important role in the control of dark chilling tolerance.
DNA helicase (PDH45) from the pea plant (Pisum sativum) is a member of the DEAD box protein family and plays a vital regulatory role in saline stress tolerance in plants. We previously reported that over-expression of PDH45 gene confers both seedling and reproductive stage salinity tolerance to a Bangladeshi rice landrace, Binnatoa (BA). In this study, transgenic BA-containing PDH45 (♂) was crossed with two different farmer-popular BRRI rice varieties (♀), BR28 and BR47, in a contained net house. F
CLAVATA (CLV) system including CLV1-like kinase and CLE-peptides is the part of the AON (autoregulation of nodulation) that controls nodule number in legume plants. Moreover, CLV system plays a key role in meristems, where it regulates the expression of WOX genes in organizing centers. Recently, we found that WOX5 homolog in pea is also expressed in nodules and in tumors induced by Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Based on this, we hypothesized that both nodules and agrobacterial tumors may be regulated by and may trigger the same components of AON, including the same WOX and CLV genes. Here, we found that pea plants with agrobacterial tumors induced prior to rhizobial inoculation had reduced the number of nodules. This effect was absent in pea sym29 mutant defective in CLV1-like kinase, the key component of AON. That suggests that agrobacterial tumors may produce a signal activating CLV1-like kinase and thereby decrease the nodule number. Since CLE peptides are known to act upstream of CLV1-like kinase, expression analysis of CLE genes has been performed both in developing nodules and tumors. Overall, 45 CLE genes were identified, and among them nine nodulation-induced CLEs were found in pea. In agrobacterial tumors, no expression of nodule-specific CLE genes the homologues of which inhibit nodulation in other legumes was observed. However, increased expression of two other nodulation-induced CLE genes was observed in agrobacterial tumors, suggesting that CLE genes are expressed in tumors that may still contribute to autoregulatory processes suppressing nodulation.
Plants are able to discriminate and respond to structurally related chitooligosaccharide (CO) signals from pathogenic and symbiotic fungi. In model plants
Strigolactones (SLs) are well known for their role in repressing shoot branching. In pea, increased transcript levels of SL biosynthesis genes are observed in stems of highly branched SL deficient (ramosus1 (rms1) and rms5) and SL response (rms3 and rms4) mutants indicative of negative feedback control. In contrast, the highly branched rms2 mutant has reduced transcript levels of SL biosynthesis genes. Grafting studies and hormone quantification led to a model where RMS2 mediates a shoot-to-root feedback signal that regulates both SL biosynthesis gene transcript levels and xylem sap levels of cytokinin exported from roots. Here we cloned RMS2 using synteny with Medicago truncatula and demonstrated that it encodes a putative auxin receptor of the AFB4/5 clade. Phenotypes similar to rms2 were found in Arabidopsis afb4/5 mutants, including increased shoot branching, low expression of SL biosynthesis genes and high auxin levels in stems. Moreover, afb4/5 and rms2 display a specific resistance to the herbicide picloram. Yeast-two-hybrid experiments supported the hypothesis that the RMS2 protein functions as an auxin receptor. SL root feeding using hydroponics repressed auxin levels in stems and down-regulated transcript levels of auxin biosynthesis genes within one hour. This auxin down-regulation was also observed in plants treated with the polar auxin transport inhibitor NPA. Together these data suggest a homeostatic feedback loop in which auxin up-regulates SL synthesis in an RMS2-dependent manner and SL down-regulates auxin synthesis in an RMS3 and RMS4-dependent manner.
Resistance against pathogens and herbivorous insects in many plant results from the expression of resistance (R) genes. Few reports, however, have considered the effects of elevated CO
Several studies have demonstrated the beneficial impact of dried peas and their components on glucose tolerance; however, the role of gut microbiota as a potential mediator is not fully examined. In this study, we investigated the effect of dietary supplementation with raw and cooked pea seed coats (PSC) on glucose tolerance, microbial composition of the gut, select markers of intestinal barrier function, and short chain fatty acid profile in glucose intolerant rats. Male Sprague Dawley rats were fed high fat diet (HFD) for six weeks to induce glucose intolerance, followed by four weeks of feeding PSC-supplemented diets. Cooked PSC improved glucose tolerance by approximately 30% (
Plant viral vectors have been developed to facilitate gene function studies especially in plant species not amenable to traditional mutational or transgenic modifications. In the Fabaceae plant family, the most widely used viral vector is derived from Bean pod mottle virus (BPMV). Originally developed for overexpression of foreign proteins and VIGS studies in soybean, we adapted the BPMV-derived vector for use in other legume species such as Phaseolus vulgaris and Pisum sativum. Here, we describe a protocol for efficient protein expression and virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) in Pisum sativum leaves and roots using the "one-step" Bean pod mottle virus (BPMV) viral vector.
The embryos of some angiosperms (usually referred to as chloroembryos) contain chlorophylls during the whole period of embryogenesis. Developing embryos have photochemically active chloroplasts and are able to produce assimilates, further converted in reserve biopolymers, whereas at the late steps of embryogenesis, seeds undergo dehydration, degradation of chlorophylls, transformation of chloroplast in storage plastids, and enter the dormancy period. However, in some seeds, the process of chlorophyll degradation remains incomplete. These residual chlorophylls compromise the quality of seed material in terms of viability, nutritional value, and shelf life, and represent a serious challenge for breeders and farmers. The mechanisms of chlorophyll degradation during seed maturation are still not completely understood, and only during the recent decades the main pathways and corresponding enzymes could be characterized. Among the identified players, the enzymes of pheophorbide
In pea, the auxins 4-chloroindole-3-acetic acid (4-Cl-IAA) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) occur naturally; however, only 4-Cl-IAA stimulates pericarp growth and gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis, and inhibits the ethylene response in deseeded ovaries (pericarps), mimicking the presence of seeds. Expression of ovary ethylene biosynthesis genes was regulated similarly in most cases by the presence of 4-Cl-IAA or seeds. PsACS1 [which encodes an enzyme that synthesizes 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC)] transcript abundance was high in pericarp tissue adjacent to developing seeds following pollination. ACC accumulation in 4-Cl-IAA-treated deseeded pericarps was driven by high PsASC1 expression (1800-fold). 4-Cl-IAA, but not IAA, also suppressed the pericarp transcript levels of PsACS4. 4-Cl-IAA increased PsACO1 and decreased PsACO2 and PsACO3 expression (enzymes that convert ACC to ethylene) but did not change ACO enzyme activity. Increased ethylene was countered by a 4-Cl-IAA-specific decrease in ethylene responsiveness potentially via modulation of pericarp ethylene receptor and signaling gene expression. This pattern did not occur in IAA-treated pericarps. Overall, the effect of 4-Cl-IAA and IAA on ethylene biosynthesis gene expression generally explains the ethylene evolution patterns, and their effects on GA biosynthesis and ethylene signaling gene expression explain the tissue response patterns in young pea ovaries.
Ethylene biosynthesis is regulated in reproductive tissues in response to heat stress in a manner to optimize resource allocation to pollinated fruits with developing seeds. High temperatures during reproductive development are particularly detrimental to crop fruit/seed production. Ethylene plays vital roles in plant development and abiotic stress responses; however, little is known about ethylene's role in reproductive tissues during development under heat stress. We assessed ethylene biosynthesis and signaling regulation within the reproductive and associated tissues of pea during the developmental phase that sets the stage for fruit-set and seed development under normal and heat-stress conditions. The transcript abundance profiles of PsACS [encode enzymes that convert S-adenosyl-L-methionine to 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC)] and PsACO (encode enzymes that convert ACC to ethylene), and ethylene evolution were developmentally, environmentally, and tissue-specifically regulated in the floral/fruit/pedicel tissues of pea. Higher transcript abundance of PsACS and PsACO in the ovaries, and PsACO in the pedicels was correlated with higher ethylene evolution and ovary senescence and pedicel abscission in fruits that were not pollinated under control temperature conditions. Under heat-stress conditions, up-regulation of ethylene biosynthesis gene expression in pre-pollinated ovaries was also associated with higher ethylene evolution and lower retention of these fruits. Following successful pollination and ovule fertilization, heat-stress modified PsACS and PsACO transcript profiles in a manner that suppressed ovary ethylene evolution. The normal ethylene burst in the stigma/style and petals following pollination was also suppressed by heat-stress. Transcript abundance profiles of ethylene receptor and signaling-related genes acted as qualitative markers of tissue ethylene signaling events. These data support the hypothesis that ethylene biosynthesis is regulated in reproductive tissues in response to heat stress to modulate resource allocation dynamics.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of an abiotic factor, i.e., lead at various concentrations (low causing a hormesis effect and causing high toxicity effects), on the generation of signalling molecules in pea (
The activation of phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC) is one of the earliest responses triggered by the recognition of several microbe-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs) in plants. The Arabidopsis (
The photorespiratory cycle is distributed over four cellular compartments, the chloroplast, peroxisomes, cytoplasm, and mitochondria. Shuttling of photorespiratory intermediates between these compartments is essential to maintain the function of photorespiration. Specific transport proteins mediate the transport across biological membranes and represent important components of the cellular metabolism. Although significant progress was made in the last years on identifying and characterizing new transport proteins, the overall picture of intracellular metabolite transporters is still rather incomplete. The photorespiratory cycle requires at least 25 transmembrane transport steps; however to date only plastidic glycolate/glycerate transporter and the accessory 2-oxoglutarate/malate and glutamate/malate transporters as well as the mitochondrial transporter BOU1 have been identified. The characterization of transport proteins and defining their substrates and kinetics are still major challenges.Here we present a detailed set of protocols for the in vitro characterization of transport proteins. We provide protocols for the isolation of recombinant transport protein expressed in E. coli or Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the extraction of total leaf membrane protein for in vitro analysis of transporter proteins. Further we explain the process of reconstituting transport proteins in artificial lipid vesicles and elucidate the details of transport assays.
Photorespiratory enzymes in different cellular compartments have been reported to be posttranslational modified by phosphorylation, disulfide formation, S-nitrosylation, glutathionylation, and lysine acetylation. However, not much is known yet about the function of these modifications to regulate the activities, localizations, or interactions of the proteins in this metabolic pathway. Hence, it will be of great importance to study these modifications and their temporal and conditional occurrence in more detail. Here, we focus on the analysis of lysine acetylation as a relatively newly discovered modification on plant metabolic enzymes. The acetylation of lysine residues within proteins is a highly conserved and reversible posttranslational modification which occurs in all living organisms. First discovered on histones and implied in the regulation of gene expression, lysine acetylation also occurs on a diverse set of cellular proteins in different subcellular compartments and is particularly abundant on metabolic enzymes. Upon lysine acetylation, the function of proteins can be modulated due to the loss of the positive charge of the lysine residue. Lysine acetylation was also discovered on proteins involved in photosynthesis and novel tools are needed to study the regulation of this modification in dependence on the environmental conditions, tissues, or plant genotype. This chapter describes a method for the identification and relative quantification of lysine-acetylated proteins in plant tissues using a dimethyl labeling technique combined with an anti-acetyl lysine antibody enrichment strategy. Here, we describe the protein purification, labeling of trypsinated peptides, as well as immuno-enrichment of lysine-acetylated peptides followed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) data acquisition and analysis.
Water-Soluble Chlorophyll Proteins (WSCPs) from Brassicaceae are non-photosynthetic proteins which tetramerize upon binding four chlorophyll (Chl) molecules. The bound Chls are highly photostable, despite the lack of bound carotenoids known, in Chl-containing photosynthetic proteins, to act as singlet oxygen and Chl triplet (
The effects of nicotinamide (NIC) and its natural plant metabolites nicotinic acid (NIA) and trigonelline (TRIG) were studied with respect to defense in plant cell cultures. NIC and NIA could protect against oxidative stress damage caused by 2,2'-azobis(2-amidinopropane) dihydrochloride (AAPH), which generates free radicals. Damage was analyzed as DNA strand breaks in cell cultures of Pisum sativum (garden pea), Daucus carota (carrot), Populus tremula L. × P. tremuloides (hybrid aspen) and Catharanthus roseus (Madagascar periwinkle), monitored by single cell gel electrophoresis (comet assay), and assays of cell leakage in C. roseus. The activities of aconitase and fumarase enzymes, which have key roles in energy metabolism, were analyzed in P. sativum cultures after treatment with NIC or NIA. Aconitase activity was increased by NIA, and fumarase activity was increased by both compounds. These compounds were shown to promote glutathione metabolism in P. sativum cultures, and NIC was shown to have a global DNA hypomethylating effect. Neither TRIG nor poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor 3-aminobenzamide offered any protection against DNA damage or cell leakage, nor did they promote aconitase or fumarase activities, or glutathione metabolism. By this broad approach addressing multiple biochemical factors and different plant species, we demonstrate that NIC and NIA protect plant cells from oxidative stress, and that NIC clearly exerts an epigenetic effect; decreased DNA methylation. This indicates that these compounds have important roles in the regulation of metabolism in plant cells, especially in connection to stress.
Strigolactones (SLs) influence the ability of legumes to associate with nitrogen-fixing bacteria. In this study, we determine the precise stage at which SLs influence nodulation. We show that SLs promote infection thread formation, as a null SL-deficient pea (
The genomic RNA (gRNA) of Pea enation mosaic virus 2 (PEMV2) is the template for p33 and -1 frameshift product p94. The PEMV2 subgenomic RNA (sgRNA) encodes two overlapping ORFs, p26 and p27, which are required for movement and stability of the gRNA. Efficient translation of p33 requires two of three 3' proximal cap-independent translation enhancers (3'CITEs): the kl-TSS, which binds ribosomes and engages in a long-distance interaction with the 5'end; and the adjacent eIF4E-binding PTE. Unlike the gRNA, all three 3'CITEs were required for efficient translation of the sgRNA, which included the ribosome-binding 3'TSS. A hairpin in the 5' proximal coding region of p26/p27 supported translation by the 3'CITEs by engaging in a long-distance RNA:RNA interaction with the kl-TSS. These results strongly suggest that the 5' ends of PEMV2 gRNA and sgRNA connect with the 3'UTR through similar long-distance interactions while having different requirements for 3'CITEs.
In recent years the biosynthesis of auxin has been clarified with the aid of mutations in auxin biosynthesis genes. However, we know little about the effects of these mutations on the seed-filling stage of seed development. Here we investigate a key auxin biosynthesis mutation of the garden pea, which results in auxin deficiency in developing seeds. We exploit the large seed size of this model species, which facilitates the measurement of compounds in individual seeds. The mutation results in small seeds with reduced starch content and a wrinkled phenotype at the dry stage. The phenotypic effects of the mutation were fully reversed by introduction of the wild-type gene as a transgene, and partially reversed by auxin application. The results indicate that auxin is required for normal seed size and starch accumulation in pea, an important grain legume crop.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated phosphorylation cascade is a vital component of plant cellular signalling. Despite this, MAPK signalling cascade is less characterized in crop legumes. To fill this void, we present here a comprehensive phylogeny of MAPK kinases (MKKs) and MAPKs identified from 16 legume species belonging to genistoid (Lupinus angustifolius), dalbergioid (Arachis spp.), phaseoloid (Glycine max, Cajanus cajan, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Vigna spp.), and galegoid (Cicer arietinum, Lotus japonicus, Medicago truncatula, Pisum sativum, Trifolium spp., and Vicia faba) clades. Using the genes of the diploid crop chickpea (C. arietinum), an exhaustive interaction analysis was performed between MKKs and MAPKs by split-ubiquitin based yeast two-hybrid (Y2H). Twenty seven interactions of varying strengths were identified between chickpea MKKs and MAPKs. These interactions were verified in planta by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). As a first report in plants, four intra-molecular interactions of weak strength were identified within chickpea MKKs. Additionally; two TEOSINTE-BRANCHED1/CYCLOIDEA/PCF (TCP) transcription factors of class I were identified as novel down-stream interacting partners of seven MAPKs. We propose that this highly reliable MAPK interaction network, presented here for chickpea, can be utilized as a reference for legumes and thus will help in deciphering their role in legume-specific events.
PA1b (Pea Albumin 1, subunit b) peptide is an entomotoxin, extracted from Legume seeds, with a lethal activity towards several insect pests, such as mosquitoes, some aphids and cereal weevils. This toxin acts by binding to the subunits c and e of the plasma membrane H
Oligogalacturonides (OGs) are known for their powerful ability to stimulate the plant immune system but little is known about their mode of action in pea (
Genetically modified crops have raised concerns about unintended consequences on non-target organisms including beneficial soil associates. Pea transformed with four antifungal genes 1-3 β glucanase, endochitinase, polygalacturonase-inhibiting proteins, and stilbene synthase is currently under field-testing for efficacy against fungal diseases in Canada. Transgenes had lower expression in the roots than leaves in greenhouse experiment. To determine the impact of disease-tolerant pea or gene products on colonization by non-target arbuscular mycorrhizae and nodulation by rhizobium, a field trial was established. Transgene insertion, as single gene or stacked genes, did not alter root colonization by arbuscular mycorrhiza fungus (AMF) or root nodulation by rhizobium inoculation in the field. We found no effect of transgenes on the plant growth and performance although, having a dual inoculant with both AMF and rhizobium yielded higher fresh weight shoot-to-root ratio in all the lines tested. This initial risk assessment of transgenic peas expressing antifungal genes showed no deleterious effect on non-target organisms.
Aquaporins (AQPs) are known to facilitate water transport across cell membranes, but the role of a single AQP in regulating plant water transport, particularly in plants other than Arabidopsis remains largely unexplored. In the present study, a virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) technique was employed to suppress the expression of a specific plasma membrane aquaporin PsPIP2;1 of Pea plants (Pisum sativum), and subsequent effects of the gene suppression on root hydraulic conductivity (Lp Compared with control plants, VIGS-PsPIP2;1 plants displayed a significant suppression of PsPIP2;1 in both roots and leaves, while the expression of other four PIP isoforms (PsPIP1;1, PsPIP1;2, PsPIP2;2, and PsPIP2;3) that were simultaneously monitored were not altered. As a consequence, significant declines in water transport of VIGS-PsPIP2;1 plants were observed at both organ and cell levels, i.e., as compared to control plants, Lp Our results demonstrate that PsPIP2;1 alone contributes substantially to root and leaf water transport in Pea plants, and highlight VIGS a useful tool for investigating the role of a single AQP in regulating plant water transport.
Imparting tolerance to abiotic stresses is of global importance as they inflict significant yield losses in field as well as in vegetable crops. Transcriptional activators, including helicases are identified to play a pivotal role in stress mitigation. Helicases, also known as molecular motors, are involved in myriad cellular processes that impart intrinsic tolerance to abiotic stresses in plants. Our study demonstrates the potential of a Pea DNA Helicase 45 (PDH45), in combating multiple abiotic stresses in chili. We harnessed Agrobacterium-mediated in planta transformation strategy for the generation of stable, single copy transgenic events. Precise molecular detection of the transgenes by sqRT-PCR coupled with genomic Southern analysis revealed variation in the integration of PDH45 at distinct loci in independent transgenic events. Characterization of five promising transgenic events showed both improved response to an array of simulated abiotic stresses and enhanced expression of several stress-responsive genes. While survival and recovery of transgenic events were significantly higher under gradual moisture stress conditions, under imposition of moderate stress, the transgenic events exhibited invigorated growth and productivity with concomitant improvement in water use efficiency (WUE). Thus, our study, unequivocally demonstrated the cardinal role of PDH45 in alleviating multiple abiotic stresses in chili.
Obesity is a risk factor for developing inflammatory bowel disease. Pea is unique with its high content of dietary fiber, polyphenolics, and glycoproteins, all of which are known to be health beneficial. We aimed to investigate the impact of green pea (GP) supplementation on the susceptibility of high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice to dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis. Six-week-old C57BL/6J female mice were fed a 45% HFD or HFD supplemented with 10% GP. After 7-week dietary supplementation, colitis was induced by adding 2.5% DSS in drinking water for 7 days followed by a 7-day recovery period. GP supplementation ameliorated the disease activity index score in HFD-fed mice during the recovery stage, and reduced neutrophil infiltration, mRNA expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and inflammatory markers interleukin (IL)-6, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), IL-17, interferon-γ (IFN-γ), and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in HFD-fed mice. Further, GP supplementation increased mucin 2 content and mRNA expression of goblet cell differentiation markers including Trefoil factor 3 (Tff3), Krüppel-like factor 4 (Klf4), and SAM pointed domain ETS factor 1 (Spdef1) in HFD-fed mice. In addition, GP ameliorated endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress as indicated by the reduced expression of Activating transcription factor-6 (ATF-6) protein and its target genes chaperone protein glucose-regulated protein 78 (Grp78), the CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein homologous protein (CHOP), the ER degradation-enhancing α-mannosidase-like 1 protein (Edem1), and the X-box binding protein 1 (Xbp1) in HFD-fed mice. In conclusion, GP supplementation ameliorated the severity of DSS-induced colitis in HFD-fed mice, which was associated with the suppression of inflammation, mucin depletion, and ER stress in the colon.
Plants engineer the rhizosphere to their advantage by secreting various nutrients and secondary metabolites. Coupling transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses of the pea (
The adhesion of plant cells is vital for support and protection of the plant body and is maintained by a variety of molecular associations between cell wall components. In some specialized cases, though, plant cells are programmed to detach, and root cap-derived border cells are examples of this. Border cells (in some species known as border-like cells) provide an expendable barrier between roots and the environment. Their maturation and release is an important but poorly characterized cell separation event. To gain a deeper insight into the complex cellular dynamics underlying this process, we undertook a systematic, detailed analysis of pea (
Peas are traditionally used as a protein source for poultry. However, peas contain antinutritional factors (ANF), which are associated with the initiation of local and systemic immune reactions. The current study examined the effect of feeding raw or differently processed peas in comparison with feeding a soybean meal (SBM) based control diet (C) on the gut mucosal immune system of broilers in a 35 day feeding trial. In six replicates, a total of 360 one-day-old male broilers were randomly allocated to four different groups receiving C, or three treatment diets containing raw, fermented, and enzymatically pre-digested peas, each supplying 30% of required crude protein. After slaughtering, jejunal samples were taken for immunohistochemical, flow cytometric, and gene expression analyses. Investigations were focused on the topological distribution of intraepithelial leukocytes (villus tip, villus mid, and crypt region) as well as on the further characterization of the different intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL) and concomitant pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines. Broilers receiving the raw or processed pea diets had higher numbers of intraepithelial CD45+ leukocytes in the tip (P = 0.004) and mid region (P < 0.001) of villi than birds fed C. Higher numbers of intraepithelial CD3+ lymphocytes were found in the villus tip (P = 0.002) and mid region (P = 0.003) of birds fed raw or processed pea containing diets in comparison with those fed C. The flow cytometric phenotyping showed a similar relative distribution of IEL among the feeding groups. The expression of intestinal pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines was affected by feeding the different diets only to a minor extent. To conclude, feeding of diets formulated with raw and processed peas in comparison with feeding a SBM control diet initiated mucosal immune responses in the jejunum of broilers indicated by a quantitative increase of intraepithelial T cells. Further research is needed in order to ascertain the specific factors which are responsible for observed local immune reactions and how these local reactions might affect the immune status and health of broilers.
As glutathione (GSH) plays an essential role in growth and symbiotic capacity of rhizobia, a glutathione synthetase (gshB) mutant of Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viciae 3841 (Rlv3841) was characterised. It fails to efficiently utilise various compounds as a sole carbon source, including glucose, succinate, glutamine and histidine, and shows 60%-69% reduction in uptake rates of glucose, succinate and the non-metabolisable substrate α-amino isobutyric acid. The defect in glucose uptake can be overcome by addition of exogenous GSH, indicating GSH, but not its bacterial synthesis, is required for efficient transport. GSH is not involved in the regulation of the activity of Rlv3841's transporters via the global regulator of transport, PtsNTR. Although lack of GSH reduces transcription of the branched amino acid transporter, this was not the case for all uptake transport systems, for example, the amino acid permease. This suggests GSH alters activity and/or assembly of transport systems by an unknown mechanism. In interaction with plants, the gshB mutant is not only severely impaired in rhizosphere colonisation, but also shows a 50% reduction in dry weight of plants and nitrogen-fixation ability. This reveals that changes in GSH metabolism affect the bacterial-plant interactions required for symbiosis.
Improving nutritional seed quality is an important challenge in grain legume breeding. However, the genes controlling the differential accumulation of globulins, which are major contributors to seed nutritional value in legumes, remain largely unknown. We combined a search for protein quantity loci with genome-wide association studies on the abundance of 7S and 11S globulins in seeds of the model legume species Medicago truncatula. Identified genomic regions and genes carrying polymorphisms linked to globulin variations were then cross-compared with pea (Pisum sativum), leading to the identification of candidate genes for the regulation of globulin abundance in this crop. Key candidates identified include genes involved in transcription, chromatin remodeling, post-translational modifications, transport and targeting of proteins to storage vacuoles. Inference of a gene coexpression network of 12 candidate transcription factors and globulin genes revealed the transcription factor ABA-insensitive 5 (ABI5) as a highly connected hub. Characterization of loss-of-function abi5 mutants in pea uncovered a role for ABI5 in controlling the relative abundance of vicilin, a sulfur-poor 7S globulin, in pea seeds. This demonstrates the feasibility of using genome-wide association studies in M. truncatula to reveal genes that can be modulated to improve seed nutritional value.
The decision for a bud to grow into a branch is a key regulatory process affecting plant architecture. In order to study molecular processes regulating axillary bud outgrowth in the model plant garden pea (Pisum sativum), we sequenced the axillary bud transcriptome and performed de novo transcriptome assembly. We assembled a pea axillary bud transcriptome into 81,774 transcripts comprised of 194,067 isoforms. This new pea transcriptome resource is both comprehensive and representative, as shown by comparison to other available pea sequence resources. Over half of the transcriptome could be annotated based on sequence homology to Arabidopsis thaliana proteins, while almost one quarter of the isoforms were identified as putative long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs). This transcriptome will be useful in studies of pea buds because it includes genes expressed specifically in buds which are not represented in other transcriptome studies. We also investigated the impact of a short time collection series on gene expression. Differential gene expression analysis identified 142 transcripts changing within the short 170 min time frame that the buds were harvested within. Thirty-three of these transcripts are implicated in diurnal fluctuations in other flowering plants, while the remaining transcripts include 31 putative lncRNA. Further investigation of the differentially expressed transcripts found an enrichment of genes involved in post-transcriptional regulation, including RNA processing and modification, as well as genes involved in fatty acid biosynthesis and oxidative phosphorylation. We have sequenced and assembled a high quality pea bud transcriptome containing both coding and non-coding RNA transcripts that will be useful for further studies into axillary bud outgrowth. Over the short sample collection time frame of just 170 min, we identified differentially expressed coding and non-coding RNA, some of which are implicated in diurnal regulation, highlighting the utility of our transcriptome resource in identifying gene expression changes and informing future experimental designs.
Water-soluble chlorophyll proteins (WSCPs) of class IIa from Brassicaceae form tetrameric complexes containing one chlorophyll (Chl) per apoprotein but no carotenoids. The complexes are remarkably stable toward dissociation and protein denaturation even at 100 °C and extreme pH values, and the Chls are partially protected against photooxidation. There are several hypotheses that explain the biological role of WSCPs, one of them proposing that they function as a scavenger of Chls set free upon plant senescence or pathogen attack. The biochemical properties of WSCP described in this paper are consistent with the protein acting as an efficient and flexible Chl scavenger. At limiting Chl concentrations, the recombinant WSCP apoprotein binds substoichiometric amounts of Chl (two Chls per tetramer) to form complexes that are as stable toward thermal dissociation, denaturation, and photodamage as the fully pigmented ones. If more Chl is added, these two-Chl complexes can bind another two Chls to reach the fully pigmented state. The protection of WSCP Chls against photodamage has been attributed to the apoprotein serving as a diffusion barrier for oxygen, preventing its access to triplet excited Chls and, thus, the formation of singlet oxygen. By contrast, the sequential binding of Chls by WSCP suggests a partially open or at least flexible structure, raising the question of how WSCP photoprotects its Chls without the help of carotenoids.
A delay in the senescence of symbiotic nodules could prolong active nitrogen fixation, resulting in improved crop yield and a reduced need for chemical fertilizers. The molecular genetic mechanisms underlying nodule senescence have not been extensively studied with a view to breeding varieties with delayed nodule senescence. In such studies, plant mutants with the phenotype of premature degradation of symbiotic structures are useful models to elucidate the genetic basis of nodule senescence. Using a dataset from transcriptome analysis of Medicago truncatula Gaertn. nodules and previous studies on pea (Pisum sativum L.) nodules, we developed a set of molecular markers based on genes that are known to be activated during nodule senescence. These genes encode cysteine proteases, a thiol protease, a bZIP transcription factor, enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of ethylene (ACS2 for ACC synthase and ACO1 for ACC oxidase) and ABA (AO3 for aldehyde oxidase), and an enzyme involved in catabolism of gibberellins (GA 2-oxidase). We analyzed the transcript levels of these genes in the nodules of two pea wild-types (cv. Sparkle and line Sprint-2) and two mutant lines, one showing premature nodule senescence (E135F (sym13)) and one showing no morphological signs of symbiotic structure degradation (Sprint-2Fix
Pea necrotic yellow dwarf virus (PNYDV) is a multipartite, circular, single-stranded DNA plant virus. PNYDV encodes eight proteins and the function of three of which remains unknown-U1, U2, and U4. PNYDV proteins cellular localization was analyzed by GFP tagging and bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) studies. The interactions of all eight PNYDV proteins were tested pairwise in planta (36 combinations in total). Seven interactions were identified and two (M-Rep with CP and MP with U4) were characterized further. MP and U4 complexes appeared as vesicle-like spots and were localized at the nuclear envelope and cell periphery. These vesicle-like spots were associated with the endoplasmatic reticulum. In addition, a nuclear localization signal (NLS) was mapped for U1, and a mutated U1 with NLS disrupted localized at plasmodesmata and therefore might also have a role in movement. Taken together, this study provides evidence for previously undescribed nanovirus protein-protein interactions and their cellular localization with novel findings not only for those proteins with unknown function, but also for characterized proteins such as the CP.
For successful molecular breeding it is important to identify targets to the gene family level, and in the specific species of interest, in this case
Strigolactones are a new class of phytohormones synthesized from carotenoids via carlactone. The complex structure of carlactone is not easily deducible from its precursor, a cis-configured β-carotene cleavage product, and is thus formed via a poorly understood series of reactions and molecular rearrangements, all catalyzed by only one enzyme, the carotenoid cleavage dioxygenase 8 (CCD8). Moreover, the reactions leading to carlactone are expected to form a second, yet unidentified product. In this study, we used
Thioredoxins (Trxs), key components of cellular redox regulation, act by controlling the redox status of many target proteins, and have been shown to play an essential role in cell survival and growth. The presence of a Trx system in the nucleus has received little attention in plants, and the nuclear targets of plant Trxs have not been conclusively identified. Thus, very little is known about the function of Trxs in this cellular compartment. Previously, we studied the intracellular localization of PsTrxo1 and confirmed its presence in mitochondria and, interestingly, in the nucleus under standard growth conditions. In investigating the nuclear function of PsTrxo1 we identified proliferating cellular nuclear antigen (PCNA) as a PsTrxo1 target by means of affinity chromatography techniques using purified nuclei from pea leaves. Such protein-protein interaction was corroborated by dot-blot and bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays, which showed that both proteins interact in the nucleus. Moreover, PsTrxo1 showed disulfide reductase activity on previously oxidized recombinant PCNA protein. In parallel, we studied the effects of PsTrxo1 overexpression on Tobacco Bright Yellow-2 (TBY-2) cell cultures. Microscopy and flow-cytometry analysis showed that PsTrxo1 overexpression increases the rate of cell proliferation in the transformed lines, with a higher percentage of the S phase of the cell cycle at the beginning of the cell culture (days 1 and 3) and at the G2/M phase after longer times of culture (day 9), coinciding with an upregulation of PCNA protein. Furthermore, in PsTrxo1 overexpressed cells there is a decrease in the total cellular glutathione content but maintained nuclear GSH accumulation, especially at the end of the culture, which is accompanied by a higher mitotic index, unlike non-overexpressing cells. These results suggest that Trxo1 is involved in the cell cycle progression of TBY-2 cultures, possibly through its link with cellular PCNA and glutathione.
Modulation of inflammation-related immune response on THP-1 macrophages of protein hydrolysates derived from tilapia mince, casein and pea protein, were investigated. The protein substrates were hydrolyzed by Virgibacillus halodenitrificans SK1-3-7 proteinase. The degree of hydrolysis (DH) of casein was observed to be the highest throughout the course of hydrolysis. When challenging THP-1 macrophages, tilapia mince hydrolysate (TMH) enhanced innate immunity through induction of IL-1β and COX-2 expression. Anti-inflammatory activity was observed in casein hydrolysate (CH) and pea protein hydrolysate (PPH) by attenuating lipopolysaccharide- (LPS) induced pro-inflammatory gene expression in THP-1 macrophages. CH suppressed IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α and COX-2, while PPH reduced LPS-induced IL-6 and TNF-α responses. In addition, CH and PPH showed stronger suppression of LPS-induced pro-inflammatory gene expression compared with non-hydrolyzed casein and pea protein. These results suggest that TMH, CH and PPH prepared from V. halodenitrificans SK1-3-7 proteinase are potential functional food ingredients with immunomodulatory activity.
The wing polyphenism of pea aphids is a compelling laboratory model with which to study the molecular mechanisms underlying phenotypic plasticity. In this polyphenism, environmental stressors such as high aphid density cause asexual, viviparous adult female aphids to alter the developmental fate of their embryos from wingless to winged morphs. This polyphenism is transgenerational, in that the pea aphid mother experiences the environmental signals, but it is her offspring that are affected. Previous research suggested that the steroid hormone ecdysone may play a role in this polyphenism. Here, we analyzed ecdysone-related gene expression patterns and found that they were consistent with a down-regulation of the ecdysone pathway being involved in the production of winged offspring. We therefore predicted that reduced ecdysone signaling would result in more winged offspring. Experimental injections of ecdysone or its analog resulted in a decreased production of winged offspring. Conversely, interfering with ecdysone signaling using an ecdysone receptor antagonist or knocking down the ecdysone receptor gene with RNAi resulted in an increased production of winged offspring. Our results are therefore consistent with the idea that ecdysone plays a causative role in the regulation of the proportion of winged offspring produced in response to crowding in this polyphenism. Our results also show that an environmentally regulated maternal hormone can mediate phenotype production in the next generation, as well as provide significant insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the functioning of transgenerational phenotypic plasticity.
Do peroxiredoxins (PRDXs) control reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels during human sperm capacitation? PRDXs are necessary to control the levels of ROS generated during capacitation allowing spermatozoa to achieve fertilizing ability. Sperm capacitation is an oxidative event that requires low and controlled amounts of ROS to trigger phosphorylation events. PRDXs are antioxidant enzymes that not only act as scavengers but also control ROS action in somatic cells. Spermatozoa from infertile men have lower levels of PRDXs (particularly of PRDX6), which are thiol-oxidized and therefore inactive. Semen samples were obtained from a cohort of 20 healthy nonsmoker volunteers aged 22-30 years old over a period of 1 year. Sperm from healthy donors was capacitated with fetal cord serum ultrafiltrate (FCSu) in the absence or presence of thiostrepton (TSP), inhibitor of 2-Cys PRDXs or 1-Hexadecyl-3-(trifluoroethyl)-sn-glycero-2-phosphomethanol lithium (MJ33), inhibitor of calcium independent-phospholipase A2 (Ca2+-iPLA2) activity of PRDX6, added at different times of incubation. Capacitation was also induced by the dibutyryl cAMP+3-isobuty1-1-methylxanthine system. Sperm viability and motility were determined by the hypo-osmotic swelling test and computer-assisted semen analysis system, respectively. Capacitation was determined by the ability of spermatozoa to undergo the acrosome reaction triggered by lysophosphatidylcholine. Percentages of acrosome reaction were obtained using the FITC-conjugated Pisum sativum agglutinin assay. Phosphorylation of tyrosine residues and of protein kinase A (PKA) substrates were determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis immunoblotting with specific antibodies. Actin polymerization was determined by phalloidin labeling. TSP and MJ33 prevented sperm capacitation and its associated actin polymerization in spermatozoa incubated with 10% FCSu (capacitation inducer) compared to non-capacitated controls (P < 0.05) without altering sperm viability. PKA substrates and tyrosine phosphorylations were prevented in FCSu-treated spermatozoa in a differential fashion depending on the type and the time of addition of the inhibitor used compared to non-capacitated controls (P < 0.05). TSP and MJ33 promoted an increase of lipid peroxidation in spermatozoa (P < 0.01) and these levels were higher in those spermatozoa incubated with the inhibitors and FCSu compared to those capacitated spermatozoa incubated without the inhibitors (P < 0.0001). Inhibition of 2-Cys PRDXs by TSP generated an oxidative stress in spermatozoa, affecting their viability compared to controls (P < 0.05). This oxidative stress was prevented by nuclephile D-penicillamine (PEN). MJ33 also promoted an increase of lipid peroxidation and impaired sperm viability compared to non-treated controls (P < 0.05) but its effect was not circumvented by PEN, suggesting that not only peroxidase but also Ca2+-iPLA2 activity of PRDX6 are necessary to guarantee viability in human spermatozoa. Not applicable. We focused on the global effect of PRDXs inhibitors on human sperm capacitation and in two of its associated phosphorylation events. Thus, other phosphorylation events and mechanisms necessary for capacitation may also be affected. PRDXs are the major antioxidant system in ejaculated spermatozoa and are necessary to allow spermatozoon to achieve fertilizing ability (capacitation and acrosome reaction). This research was supported by Canadian Institutes of Health Research (MOP 133661) and the Fonds de Recherché en Santé Quebec (FRSQS #22151) to C.O. The authors have nothing to disclose.
The preservation of our genetic resources and production of high-quality seeds depends on their ability to remain viable and vigorous during storage. In a quantitative trait locus analysis on seed longevity in Medicago truncatula, we identified the bZIP transcription factor ABSCISIC ACID INSENSITIVE5 (ABI5). Characterization of Mt-abi5 insertion mutant seeds revealed that both the acquisition of longevity and dormancy were severely impaired. Using transcriptomes of developing Mt-abi5 seeds, we created a gene coexpression network and revealed ABI5 as a regulator of gene modules with functions related to raffinose family oligosaccharide (RFO) metabolism, late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins, and photosynthesis-associated nuclear genes (PhANGs). Lower RFO contents in Mt-abi5 seeds were linked to the regulation of SEED IMBIBITION PROTEIN1 Proteomic analysis confirmed that a set of LEA polypeptides was reduced in mature Mt-abi5 seeds, whereas the absence of repression of PhANG in mature Mt-abi5 seeds was accompanied by chlorophyll and carotenoid retention. This resulted in a stress response in Mt-abi5 seeds, evident from an increase in α-tocopherol and upregulation of genes related to programmed cell death and protein folding. Characterization of abi5 mutants in a second legume species, pea (Pisum sativum), confirmed a role for ABI5 in the regulation of longevity, seed degreening, and RFO accumulation, identifying ABI5 as a prominent regulator of late seed maturation in legumes.
Transporter genes and cytokinins are key targets for crop improvement. These genes are active during the development of the seed and its establishment as a strong sink. However, during germination, the seed transitions to being a source for the developing root and shoot. To determine if the sucrose transporter (
Pisum sativum L. (pea) seed is a source of carbohydrate and protein for the developing plant. By studying pea seeds inoculated by the cytokinin-producing bacterium, Rhodococcus fascians , we sought to determine the impact of both an epiphytic (avirulent) strain and a pathogenic strain on source-sink activity within the cotyledons during and following germination. Bacterial spread was monitored microscopically, and real-time reverse transcription-quantitative PCR was used to determine the expression of cytokinin biosynthesis, degradation and response regulator gene family members, along with expression of family members of SWEET , SUT , CWINV and AAP genes - gene families identified initially in pea by transcriptomic analysis. The endogenous cytokinin content was also determined. The cotyledons infected by the virulent strain remained intact and turned green, while multiple shoots were formed and root growth was reduced. The epiphytic strain had no such marked impact. Isopentenyl adenine was elevated in the cotyledons infected by the virulent strain. Strong expression of RfIPT , RfLOG and RfCKX was detected in the cotyledons infected by the virulent strain throughout the experiment, with elevated expression also observed for PsSWEET , PsSUT and PsINV gene family members. The epiphytic strain had some impact on the expression of these genes, especially at the later stages of reserve mobilization from the cotyledons. The pathogenic strain retained the cotyledons as a sink tissue for the pathogen rather than the cotyledon converting completely to a source tissue for the germinating plant. We suggest that the interaction of cytokinins, CWINVs and SWEETs may lead to the loss of apical dominance and the appearance of multiple shoots.
Apical dominance is one of the fundamental developmental phenomena in plant biology, which determines the overall architecture of aerial plant parts. Here we show apex decapitation activated competition for dominance in adjacent upper and lower axillary buds. A two-nodal-bud pea (Pisum sativum L.) was used as a model system to monitor and assess auxin flow, auxin transport channels, and dormancy and initiation status of axillary buds. Auxin flow was manipulated by lateral stem wounds or chemically by auxin efflux inhibitors 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA), 1-N-naphtylphtalamic acid (NPA), or protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX) treatments, which served to interfere with axillary bud competition. Redirecting auxin flow to different points influenced which bud formed the outgrowing and dominant shoot. The obtained results proved that competition between upper and lower axillary buds as secondary auxin sources is based on the same auxin canalization principle that operates between the shoot apex and axillary bud.
Stress granules (SGs) are structures within cells that regulate gene expression during stress response, e.g. viral infection. In mammalian cells assembly of SGs is dependent on the Ras-GAP SH3-domain-binding protein (G3BP). The C-terminal domain of the viral nonstructural protein 3 (nsP3) of Semliki Forest virus (SFV) forms a complex with mammalian G3BP and sequesters it into viral RNA replication complexes in a manner that inhibits the formation of SGs. The binding domain of nsP3 to HsG3BP was mapped to two tandem 'FGDF' repeat motifs close to the C-terminus of the viral proteins. It was speculated that plant viruses employ a similar strategy to inhibit SG function. This study identifies an Arabidopsis thaliana NTF2-RRM domain-containing protein as a G3BP-like protein (AtG3BP), which localizes to plant SGs. Moreover, the nuclear shuttle protein (NSP) of the begomovirus abutilon mosaic virus (AbMV), which harbors a 'FVSF'-motif at its C-terminal end, interacts with the AtG3BP-like protein, as does the 'FNGSF'-motif containing NSP of pea necrotic yellow dwarf virus (PNYDV), a member of the Nanoviridae family. We therefore propose that SG formation upon stress is conserved between mammalian and plant cells and that plant viruses may follow a similar strategy to inhibit plant SG function as it has been shown for their mammalian counterparts.
Insertion sequencing (INSeq) analysis of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae 3841 (Rlv3841) grown on glucose or succinate at both 21% and 1% O Rhizobium leguminosarum, a soil bacterium that forms N
Transgenic pea lines transformed with the cry1Ac gene were characterized at molecular (PCR, RT-PCR, qRT-PCR and immunostrip assay) and functional levels (leaf paint and insect feeding bioassays). The results showed the presence, expression, inheritance and functionality of the introduced transgene at different progeny levels. Variation in the expression of the cry1Ac gene was observed among the different transgenic lines. In the insect bioassay studies using the larvae of Heliothis virescens, both larval survival and plant damage were highly affected on the different transgenic plants. Up to 100 % larval mortality was observed on the transgenic plants compared to 17.42 % on control plants. Most of the challenged transgenic plants showed very negligible to substantially reduced feeding damage indicating the insect resistance of the developed transgenic lines. Further analysis under field condition will be required to select promising lines for future uses.
Phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) is a key tyrosine-biosynthetic enzyme involved in neurological and melanin-associated physiological processes. Despite extensive investigations in holometabolous insects, a PAH contribution to insect embryonic development has never been demonstrated. Here, we have characterized, for the first time, the PAH gene in a hemimetabolous insect, the aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum. Phylogenetic and sequence analyses confirmed that ApPAH is closely related to metazoan PAH, exhibiting the typical ACT regulatory and catalytic domains. Temporal expression patterns suggest that ApPAH has an important role in aphid developmental physiology, its mRNA levels peaking at the end of embryonic development. We used parental dsApPAH treatment to generate successful knockdown in aphid embryos and to study its developmental role. ApPAH inactivation shortens the adult aphid lifespan and considerably affects fecundity by diminishing the number of nymphs laid and impairing embryonic development, with newborn nymphs exhibiting severe morphological defects. Using single nymph HPLC analyses, we demonstrated a significant tyrosine deficiency and a consistent accumulation of the upstream tyrosine precursor, phenylalanine, in defective nymphs, thus confirming the RNAi-mediated disruption of PAH activity. This study provides first insights into the role of PAH in hemimetabolous insects and demonstrates that this metabolic gene is essential for insect embryonic development.
The molecular pathways responsible for the flowering response to photoperiod have been extensively studied in Arabidopsis thaliana and cereals but remain poorly understood in other major plant groups. Here, we describe a dominant mutant at the LATE BLOOMER2 (LATE2) locus in pea (Pisum sativum) that is late-flowering with a reduced response to photoperiod. LATE2 acts downstream of light signaling and the circadian clock to control expression of the main photoperiod-regulated FT gene, FTb2, implying that it plays a primary role in photoperiod measurement. Mapping identified the CYCLING DOF FACTOR gene CDFc1 as a strong candidate for LATE2, and the late2-1D mutant was found to carry a missense mutation in CDFc1 that impairs its capacity to bind to the blue-light photoreceptor FKF1 in yeast two-hybrid assays and delays flowering in Arabidopsis when overexpressed. Arabidopsis CDF genes are important negative regulators of CONSTANS (CO) transcription, but we found no effect of LATE2 on the transcription of pea CO-LIKE genes, nor on genes in any other families previously implicated in the activation of FT in Arabidopsis. Our results reveal an important component of the pea photoperiod response pathway and support the view that regulation of FTb2 expression by photoperiod occurs via a CO-independent mechanism.
Aphids are piercing-sucking insect pests and feed on phloem sap. During feeding, aphids inject a battery of salivary proteins into host plant. Some of these proteins function like effectors of microbial pathogens and influence the outcome of plant-aphid interactions. The pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum) is the model aphid and encompasses multiple biotypes each specialized to one or a few legume species, providing an opportunity to investigate the underlying mechanisms of the compatibility between plants and aphid biotypes. We aim to identify the aphid factors that determine the compatibility with host plants, hence involved in the host plant specialization process, and hypothesize that salivary proteins are one of those factors. Agrobacterium-mediated transient gene expression is a powerful tool to perform functional analyses of effector (salivary) proteins in plants. However, the tool was not established for the legume species that A. pisum feeds on. Thus, we decided to optimize the method for legume plants to facilitate the functional analyses of A. pisum salivary proteins. We screened a range of cultivars of pea (Pisum sativum) and alfalfa (Medicago sativa). None of the M. sativa cultivars was suitable for agroinfiltration under the tested conditions; however, we established a protocol for efficient transient gene expression in two cultivars of P. sativum, ZP1109 and ZP1130, using A. tumefaciens AGL-1 strain and the pEAQ-HT-DEST1 vector. We confirmed that the genes are expressed from 3 to 10 days post-infiltration and that aphid lines of the pea adapted biotype fed and reproduced on these two cultivars while lines of alfalfa and clover biotypes did not. Thus, the pea biotype recognizes these two cultivars as typical pea plants. By using a combination of ZP1109 and an A. pisum line, we defined an agroinfiltration procedure to examine the effect of in planta expression of selected salivary proteins on A. pisum fitness and demonstrated that transient expression of one candidate salivary gene increased the fecundity of the aphids. This result confirms that the agroinfiltration can be used to perform functional analyses of salivary proteins in P. sativum and consequently to study the molecular mechanisms underlying host specialization in the pea aphid complex.
The sequences of the PsSst1 and PsIgn1 genes of pea (Pisum sativum L.) homologous to the symbiotic LjSST1 and LjIGN1 genes of Lotusjaponicus (Regel.) K. Larsen are determined. The expression level of PsSst1 and PsIgn1 genes is determined by real-time PCR in nodules of several symbiotic mutants and original lines of pea. Lines with increased (Sprint-2Fix⁻ (Pssym31)) and decreased (P61 (Pssym25)) expression level of both genes are revealed along with the lines characterized by changes in the expression level of only one of these genes. The revealed features of the PsSst1 and PsIgn1 expression allow us to expand the phenotypic characterization of pea symbiotic mutants. In addition, PsSst1 and PsIgn1 cDNA is sequenced in selected mutant lines, characterized by a decreased expression level of these genes in nodules, but no mutations are found.
Cultivated crops have repeatedly faced new climatic conditions while spreading from their site of origin. In Sweden, at the northernmost fringe of Europe, extreme conditions with temperature-limited growth seasons and long days require specific adaptation. Pea (Pisum sativum L.) has been cultivated in Sweden for millennia, allowing for adaptation to the local environmental conditions to develop. To study such adaptation, 15 Swedish pea landraces were chosen alongside nine European landraces, seven cultivars and three wild accessions. Number of days to flowering (DTF) and other traits were measured and the diversity of the flowering time genes HIGH RESPONSE TO PHOTOPERIOD (HR), LATE FLOWERING (LF) and STERILE NODES (SN) was assessed. Furthermore, the expression profiles of LF and SN were obtained. DTF was positively correlated with the length of growing season at the site of origin (GSO) of the Swedish landraces. Alleles at the HR locus were significantly associated with DTF with an average difference of 15.43 days between the two detected haplotypes. LF expression was found to have a significant effect on DTF when analysed on its own, but not when HR haplotype was added to the model. HR haplotype and GSO together explained the most of the detected variation in DTF (49.6 %). We show local adaptation of DTF, primarily in the northernmost accessions, and links between genetic diversity and diversity in DTF. The links between GSO and genetic diversity of the genes are less clear-cut and flowering time adaptation seems to have a complex genetic background.
Verocytotoxigenic Escherichia coli (VTEC) can contaminate crop plants, potentially using them as secondary hosts, which can lead to food-borne infection. Currently, little is known about the influence of the specific plant species on the success of bacterial colonization. As such, we compared the ability of the VTEC strain, E. coli O157:H7 'Sakai,' to colonize the roots and leaves of four leafy vegetables: spinach (Spinacia oleracea), lettuce (Lactuca sativa), vining green pea (Pisum sativum), and prickly lettuce (Lactuca serriola), a wild relative of domesticated lettuce. Also, to determine the drivers of the initial response on interaction with plant tissue, the whole transcriptome of E. coli O157:H7 Sakai was analyzed following exposure to plant extracts of varying complexity (spinach leaf lysates or root exudates, and leaf cell wall polysaccharides from spinach or lettuce). Plant extracts were used to reduce heterogeneity inherent in plant-microbe interactions and remove the effect of plant immunity. This dual approach provided information on the initial adaptive response of E. coli O157:H7 Sakai to the plant environment together with the influence of the living plant during bacterial establishment and colonization. Results showed that both the plant tissue type and the plant species strongly influence the short-term (1 h) transcriptional response to extracts as well as longer-term (10 days) plant colonization or persistence. We show that propagation temperature (37 vs. 18°C) has a major impact on the expression profile and therefore pre-adaptation of bacteria to a plant-relevant temperature is necessary to avoid misleading temperature-dependent wholescale gene-expression changes in response to plant material. For each of the plant extracts tested, the largest group of (annotated) differentially regulated genes were associated with metabolism. However, large-scale differences in the metabolic and biosynthetic pathways between treatment types indicate specificity in substrate utilization. Induction of stress-response genes reflected the apparent physiological status of the bacterial genes in each extract, as a result of glutamate-dependent acid resistance, nutrient stress, or translational stalling. A large proportion of differentially regulated genes are uncharacterized (annotated as hypothetical), which could indicate yet to be described functional roles associated with plant interaction for E. coli O157:H7 Sakai.
Phenotypic plasticity is a key life history strategy used by many plants and animals living in heterogeneous environments. A multitude of studies have investigated the costs and limits of plasticity, as well as the conditions under which it evolves. Much less well understood are the molecular genetic mechanisms that enable an organism to sense its environment and respond in a plastic manner. The pea aphid wing polyphenism is a compelling laboratory model to study these mechanisms. In this polyphenism, environmental stressors like high density cause asexual, viviparous adult female aphids to change the development of their embryos from wingless to winged morphs. The life history trade-offs between the two morphs have been intensively studied, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this process remain largely unknown. We therefore performed a genomewide study of the maternal transcriptome at two time points with and without a crowding stress to discover the maternal molecular changes that lead to the development of winged vs. wingless offspring. We observed significant transcriptional changes in genes associated with odorant binding, neurotransmitter transport, hormonal activity and chromatin remodelling in the maternal transcriptome. We also found that titres of serotonin, dopamine and octopamine were higher in solitary compared to crowded aphids. We use these results to posit a model for how maternal signals inform a developing embryo to be winged or wingless. Our findings add significant insights into the identity of the molecular mechanisms that underlie environmentally induced morph determination and suggest a possible role for biogenic amine regulation in polyphenisms generally.
Fumonisin concentrations in mycelia and media were studied in liquid Fusarium proliferatum cultures supplemented with host plant extracts. Furthermore, the kinetics of fumonisin accumulation in media and mycelia collected before and after extract addition was analysed as well as the changes in the expression of the FUM1 gene. Fumonisin content in culture media increased in almost all F. proliferatum strains shortly after plant extracts were added. The asparagus extract induced the highest FB level increase and the garlic extract was the second most effective inducer. Fumonisin level decreased constantly until 14th day of culturing, though for some strains also at day 8th an elevated FB level was observed. Pineapple extract induced the highest increase of fum1 transcript levels as well as fumonisin synthesis in many strains, and the peas extract inhibited fungal growth and fumonisin biosynthesis. Moreover, fumonisins were accumulated in mycelia of studied strains and in the respective media.
In this work, we investigated the involvement of the long-term dynamics of cytoskeletal reorganization on the induced inaccessibility phenomenon by which cells that successfully defend against a previous fungal attack become highly resistant to subsequent attacks. This was performed on pea through double inoculation experiments using inappropriate (Blumeria graminis f. sp. avenae, Bga) and appropriate (Erysiphe pisi, Ep) powdery mildew fungi. Pea leaves previously inoculated with Bga showed a significant reduction of later Ep infection relative to leaves inoculated only with Ep, indicating that cells had developed induced inaccessibility. This reduction in Ep infection was higher when the time interval between Bga and Ep inoculation ranged between 18 and 24 h, although increased penetration resistance in co-infected cells was observed even with time intervals of 24 days between inoculations. Interestingly, this increase in resistance to Ep following successful defence to the inappropriate Bga was associated with an increase in actin microfilament density that reached a maximum at 18-24 h after Bga inoculation and very slowly decreased afterwards. The putative role of cytoskeleton reorganization/disorganization leading to inaccessibility is supported by the suppression of the induced resistance mediated by specific actin (cytochalasin D, latrunculin B) or general protein (cycloheximide) inhibitors.
Plant lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) assemble a family of small (7-9 kDa) ubiquitous cationic proteins with an ability to bind and transport lipids as well as participate in various physiological processes including defense against phytopathogens. They also form one of the most clinically relevant classes of plant allergens. Nothing is known to date about correlation between lipid-binding and IgE-binding properties of LTPs. The garden pea Pisum sativum is widely consumed crop and important allergenic specie of the legume family. This work is aimed at isolation of a novel LTP from pea seeds and characterization of its structural, functional, and allergenic properties. Three novel lipid transfer proteins, designated as Ps-LTP1-3, were found in the garden pea Pisum sativum, their cDNA sequences were determined, and mRNA expression levels of all the three proteins were measured at different pea organs. Ps-LTP1 was isolated for the first time from the pea seeds, and its complete amino acid sequence was determined. The protein exhibits antifungal activity and is a membrane-active compound that causes a leakage from artificial liposomes. The protein binds various lipids including bioactive jasmonic acid. Spatial structure of the recombinant uniformly (13)C,(15)N-labelled Ps-LTP1 was solved by heteronuclear NMR spectroscopy. In solution the unliganded protein represents the mixture of two conformers (relative populations ~ 85:15) which are interconnected by exchange process with characteristic time ~ 100 ms. Hydrophobic residues of major conformer form a relatively large internal tunnel-like lipid-binding cavity (van der Waals volume comes up to ~1000 Å(3)). The minor conformer probably corresponds to the protein with the partially collapsed internal cavity. For the first time conformational heterogeneity in solution was shown for an unliganded plant lipid transfer protein. Heat denaturation profile and simulated gastrointestinal digestion assay showed that Ps-LTP1 displayed a high thermal and digestive proteolytic resistance proper for food allergens. The reported structural and immunological findings seem to describe Ps-LTP1 as potential cross-reactive allergen in LTP-sensitized patients, mostly Pru p 3(+) ones. Similarly to allergenic LTPs the potential IgE-binding epitope of Ps-LTP1 is located near the proposed entrance into internal cavity and could be involved in lipid-binding.
Biotin is an essential micronutrient, and is a cofactor for several carboxylases that are involved in the metabolism of glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids. Because plant cells can synthesize their own biotin, a wide variety of plant-based foods contains significant amounts of biotin; however, the influence of environmental conditions on the biotin content in plants remains largely unclear. In the present study, we investigated the effects of different cultivation conditions on the biotin content and biotin synthesis in pea sprouts (Pisum sativum). In the experiment, the pea sprouts were removed from their cotyledons and cultivated by hydroponics under five different lighting and temperature conditions (control [25ºC, 12-h light/12-h dark cycle], low light [25ºC, 4-h light/20-h dark cycle], dark [25ºC, 24 h dark], low temperature [12ºC, 12-h light/12-h dark cycle], and cold [6ºC, 12-h light/12-h dark cycle]) for 10 d. Compared to the biotin content of pea sprouts under the control conditions, the biotin contents of pea sprouts under the low-light, dark, and cold conditions had significantly decreased. The dark group showed the lowest biotin content among the groups. Expression of the biotin synthase gene (bio2) was also significantly decreased under the dark and cold conditions compared to the control condition, in a manner similar to that observed for the biotin content. No significant differences in the adenosine triphosphate content were observed among the groups. These results indicate that environmental conditions such as light and temperature modulate the biotin content of pea plant tissues by regulating the expression of biotin synthase.
Iron deficiency (-Fe) is one of the major problems in crop production. Dicots, like pea (Pisum sativum L.), are Strategy I plants, which induce a group of specific enzymes such as Fe(III)-chelate reductase (FRO), Fe responsive transporter (IRT) and H(+)-ATPase (HA) at the root plasma membrane under -Fe. Different species and cultivars have been shown to react diversely to -Fe. Furthermore, different kinds of experimental set-ups for -Fe have to be distinguished: i) short-term vs. long-term, ii) constant vs. acute alteration and iii) buffered vs. unbuffered systems. The presented work compares the effects of constant long-term -Fe in an unbuffered system on roots of four different pea cultivars in a timely manner (12, 19 and 25days). To differentiate the effects of -Fe and plant development, control plants (+Fe) were analyzed in comparison to -Fe plants. Besides physiological measurements, an integrative study was conducted using a comprehensive proteome analysis. Proteins, related to stress adaptation (e.g. HSP), reactive oxygen species related proteins and proteins of the mitochondrial electron transport were identified to be changed in their abundance. Regulations and possible functions of identified proteins are discussed. Pea (Pisum sativum L.) belongs to the legume family (Fabaceae) and is an important crop plant due to high Fe, starch and protein contents. According to FAOSTAT data (September 2015), world production of the garden pea quadrupled from 1970 to 2012. Since the initial studies by Gregor Mendel, the garden pea became the most-characterized legume and has been used in numerous investigations in plant biochemistry and physiology, but is not well represented in the "omics"-related fields. A major limitation in pea production is the Fe availability from soils. Adaption mechanisms to Fe deficiency vary between species, and even cultivars have been shown to react diversely. A label-free proteomic approach, in combination with physiological measurements, was chosen to observe four different pea cultivars for 5 to 25days. Physiological and proteome data showed that cultivar Blauwschokker and Vroege were more susceptible to -Fe than cultivar Kelvedon (highly efficient) and GftR (semi-efficient). Proteomic data hint that the adaptation process to long-term -Fe takes place between days 19 and 25. Results show that adaptation processes of efficient cultivars are able to postpone secondary negative effects of long-term -Fe, possibly by stabilizing the protein metabolic processing and the mitochondrial electron transport components. This maintains the cellular energy proliferation, keeps ROS production low and postpones the mitochondrial cell death signal.
The plant seed is a leading platform amongst plant-based storage systems for the production of recombinant proteins. In this study, we compared the activity of human adenosine deaminase (hADA) expressed in transgenic seeds of three different plant species: pea (Pisum sativum L.), Nicotiana benthamiana L. and tarwi (Lupinus mutabilis Sweet). All three species were transformed with the same expression vector containing the hADA gene driven by the seed-specific promoter LegA2 with an apoplast targeting pinII signal peptide. During the study, several independent transgenic lines were generated and screened from each plant species and only lines with a single copy of the gene of interest were used for hADA expression analysis. A stable transgenic canola line expressing the ADA protein, under the control of 35S constitutive promoter was used as both as a positive control and for comparative study with the seed specific promoter. Significant differences were detected in the expression of hADA. The highest activity of the hADA enzyme (Units/g seed) was reported in tarwi (4.26 U/g) followed by pea (3.23 U/g) and Nicotiana benthamiana (1.69 U/g). The expression of mouse ADA in canola was very low in both seed and leaf tissue compared to other host plants, confirming higher activity of seed specific promoter. Altogether, these results suggest that tarwi could be an excellent candidate for the production of valuable recombinant proteins.
Similar to other plant species, Arabidopsis has a huge repertoire of predicted helicases, including the eIF4AIII factor, a putative component of the exon junction complex related to mRNA biogenesis. In this article, we integrated evolutionary and functional approaches to have a better understanding of eIF4AIII function in plants. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the mRNA biogenesis-related helicase eIF4AIII is the ortholog of the stress-related helicases PDH45 from Pisum sativum and MH1 from Medicago sativa, suggesting evolutionary and probably functional equivalences between mRNA biogenesis and stress-related plant helicases. Molecular and genetic analyses confirmed the relevance of eIF4AIII during abiotic stress adaptation in Arabidopsis. Therefore, in addition to its function in mRNA biogenesis, eIF4AIII can play a role in abiotic stress adaptation.
The pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum, with a sequenced genome and abundant phenotypic plasticity, has become an emerging model for genomic and developmental studies. Like other aphids, A. pisum propagate rapidly via parthenogenetic viviparous reproduction, where the embryos develop within egg chambers in an assembly-line fashion in the ovariole. Previously we have established a robust platform of whole-mount in situ hybridization allowing detection of mRNA expression in the aphid embryos. For analyzing the expression of protein, though, established protocols for immunostaining the ovarioles of asexual viviparous aphids did not produce satisfactory results. Here we report conditions optimized for increasing tissue permeability and decreasing background staining, both of which were problems when applying established approaches. Optimizations include: (1) incubation of proteinase K (1 µg/ml, 10 min), which was found essential for antibody penetration in mid- and late-stage aphid embryos; (2) replacement of normal goat serum/bovine serum albumin with a blocking reagent supplied by a Digoxigenin (DIG)-based buffer set and (3) application of methanol rather hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) for bleaching endogenous peroxidase; which significantly reduced the background staining in the aphid tissues. These critical conditions optimized for immunostaining will allow effective detection of gene products in the embryos of A. pisum and other aphids.
PsSEOF-1 binds to calcium and its expression is upregulated by salinity treatment. PsSEOF - 1 -overexpressing transgenic tobacco showed enhanced salinity stress tolerance by maintaining cellular ion homeostasis and modulating ROS-scavenging pathway. Calcium (Ca(2+)) plays important role in growth, development and stress tolerance in plants. Cellular Ca(2+) homeostasis is achieved by the collective action of channels, pumps, antiporters and by Ca(2+) chelators present in the cell like calcium-binding proteins. Forisomes are ATP-independent mechanically active motor proteins known to function in wound sealing of injured sieve elements of phloem tissue. The Ca(2+)-binding activity of forisome and its role in abiotic stress signaling were largely unknown. Here we report the Ca(2+)-binding activity of pea forisome (PsSEO-F1) and its novel function in promoting salinity tolerance in transgenic tobacco. Native PsSEO-F1 promoter positively responded in salinity stress as confirmed using GUS reporter. Overexpression of PsSEO-F1 tobacco plants confers salinity tolerance by alleviating ionic toxicity and increased ROS scavenging activity which probably results in reduced membrane damage and improved yield under salinity stress. Evaluation of several physiological indices shows an increase in relative water content, electrolyte leakage, proline accumulation and chlorophyll content in transgenic lines as compared with null-segregant control. Expression of several genes involved in cellular homeostasis is perturbed by PsSEO-F1 overexpression. These findings suggest that PsSEO-F1 provides salinity tolerance through cellular Ca(2+) homeostasis which in turn modulates ROS machinery providing indirect link between Ca(2+) and ROS signaling under salinity-induced perturbation. PsSEO-F1 most likely functions in salinity stress tolerance by improving antioxidant machinery and mitigating ion toxicity in transgenic lines. This finding should make an important contribution in our better understanding of the significance of calcium signaling in phloem tissue leading to salinity stress tolerance.
Insect populations feeding on different plant species are under selection pressure to adapt to these differences. A study integrating elements of the ecology, behavior, and gene expression of aphids on different host plants has not yet been well-explored. The present study explores the relationship between host fitness and survival, feeding behavior, and salivary gland gene expression of a pea (Pisum sativum) host race of Acyrthosiphon pisum feeding on a common host Vicia faba and on three genetically-related hosts (Vicia villosa, Medicago truncatula, and Medicago sativa). Life table data indicated that aphids on non-favored hosts exhibited small size, low reproduction rate, slow population increase and individual development, and long lifespan. Electrical penetration graph results showed that the aphids spent significantly less time in passive ingestion of phloem sap on all non-preferred host plants before acclimation. After a period of acclimation on M. truncatula and V. villosa, pea host race individuals showed improved feeding behavior. No individuals of the pea host race completed its life history on M. sativa. Interestingly, the number of host-specific differentially-expressed salivary gland genes was negatively correlated with the fitness of aphids on this host plant. This study provided important cues in host plant specialization in aphids.
Plant defensins are antifungal peptides produced by the innate immune system plants developed to circumvent fungal infection. The defensin Drr230a, originally isolated from pea, has been previously shown to be active against various entomopathogenic and phytopathogenic fungi. In the present study, the activity of a yeast-expressed recombinant Drr230a protein (rDrr230a) was tested against impacting soybean and cotton fungi. First, the gene was subcloned into the yeast expression vector pPICZαA and expressed in Pichia pastoris. Resulting rDrr230a exhibited in vitro activity against fungal growth and spore germination of Fusarium tucumaniae, which causes soybean sudden death syndrome, and against Colletotrichum gossypii var. cephalosporioides, which causes cotton ramulosis. The rDrr230a IC
Catalase-peroxidase KatG can protect bacteria from damage of reactive oxygen species. This study investigated the antioxidative function of catalase - peroxidase gene katG in Rhizobium leguminosarum 3841. katG mutant strain of R. leguminosarum was constructed by homologous recombination. The wild type, katG mutant and complementary strain were challenged by oxidative stress and symbiotic ability. Under free - living conditions, the katG mutant exhibited no generation time extension. However, cells of the katG strain were deficient in consumption oj high concentrations of H2O2and were vulnerable after aquick exposure to H2O2. The real-time qRT-PCR results showec that katG was expressed independently of exogenous H2O2. In contrast, the katG mutant strain displayed higher expres, level of ohrB gene and lower expression level of grxC than the wild type. With regard to symbiotic capacities with Pisum sativum, the katG mutant was indistinguishable in root nodule nitrogenase activity and competition nodule ability from the wild type. However, katG gene was expressed significantly lower in bacteroids than that in free-living strains. Besides, the colonization of the pea rhizosphere by the katG mutant was impaired compared to that of the wild type. ThE deletion of katG had nosignificant effect in 3841 under the free-living and symbiosis condition but was essential ir antioxidation and colonization of the pea rhizosphere. Although katG could not be induced by H2O2, it still played acentra role in antioxidation and symbiotic nitrogen fixation by regulating the antioxidant genes such as ohrB and grxC.
Trigonelline occurs in many dietary food plants and has been found to have anti-carcinogenic activity. Trigonelline is also found in coffee which is one of the most widely consumed beverages. Many epidemiological studies have reported that coffee consumption has an inverse relationship with the risk of cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma. It would be interesting to investigate whether trigonelline is an ideal chemoprevent agent to prevent cancer progression. The protein expression was performed by western blotting. The trigonelline content in snow pea (Pisum sativum) was analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The migratory activity of human hepatocarcinoma cells (Hep3B) was assessed by using a wound migration assay. The percentage of each phase in the cell cycle was analyzed on a FACScan flow cytometer. Gene expression was detected by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction techniques. Native gel analysis was performed to analyze the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and glutathione peroxidase. According to the data of HPLC analysis, P. sativum, which is a popular vegetable, has relatively high content of trigonelline. Our findings suggest that trigonelline is an efficient compound for inhibiting Hep3B cell migration. Trigonelline inhibited the migration of hepatoma cells at concentrations of 75-100 µM without affecting proliferation. Raf/ERK/Nrf2 protein levels and further downstream antioxidative enzymes activity, such as SOD, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase, significantly decreased after treatment with 100 µM of trigonelline for 24 h. The migration inhibition of trigonelline is also related to its ability to regulate the matrix metalloproteinases 7 (MMP-7) gene expression. In this study, protein kinase Cα (PKCα) and Raf/ERK/Nrf2 signaling pathway and MMP-7 gene expression were involved in the trigonelline-mediated migration inhibition of Hep3B cells. We also demonstrated that trigonelline inhibits Hep3B cell migration through downregulation of nuclear factor E2-related factor 2-dependent antioxidant enzymes activity. This study analyzed the trigonelline content in a popular vegetable, snow pea, as a representative proof to prove that trigonelline is often found in the daily intake of food. Our finding suggested that trigonelline should be a useful chemopreventive agent derived from the daily intake of food to prevent cancer progression.
Methods for the localization of cellular components such as nucleic acids, proteins, cellular vesicles and more, and the localization of microorganisms including viruses, bacteria and fungi have become an important part of any research program in biological sciences that enable the visualization of these components in fixed and live tissues without the need for complex processing steps. The rapid development of microscopy tools and technologies as well as related fluorescent markers and fluorophores for many cellular components, and the ability to design DNA and RNA sequence-based molecular probes and antibodies which can be visualized fluorescently, have rapidly advanced this field. This review will focus on some of the localizations methods which have been used in plants and insect pests in agriculture, and other microorganisms, which are rapidly advancing the research in agriculture-related fields.
The role of shoot-root signals in the control of nodulation and arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) development were examined in the divergent legume species pea and blue lupin. These species were chosen as pea can host both symbionts, whereas lupin can nodulate but has lost the ability to form AM. Intergeneric grafts between lupin and pea enabled examination of key long-distance signals in these symbioses. The role of strigolactones, auxin and elements of the autoregulation of nodulation (AON) pathway were investigated. Grafting studies were combined with loss-of-function mutants to monitor symbioses (nodulation, AM) and hormone effects (levels, gene expression and application studies). Lupin shoots suppress AM colonization in pea roots, in part by downregulating strigolactone exudation involving reduced expression of the strigolactone biosynthesis gene PsCCD8. By contrast, lupin shoots enhance pea nodulation, independently of strigolactones, possibly due to a partial incompatibility in AON shoot-root signalling between pea and lupin. This study highlights that nodulation and AM symbioses can be regulated independently and this may be due to long-distance signals, a phenomenon we were able to uncover by working with divergent legumes. We also identify a role for strigolactone exudation in determining the status of non-AM hosts.
Understanding the molecular mechanisms regulating pea seed developmental process is extremely important for pea breeding. In this study, we used high-throughput RNA-Seq and bioinformatics analyses to examine the changes in gene expression during seed development in vegetable pea and grain pea, and compare the gene expression profiles of these two pea types. RNA-Seq generated 18.7 G of raw data, which were then de novo assembled into 77,273 unigenes with a mean length of 930 bp. Our results illustrate that transcriptional control during pea seed development is a highly coordinated process. There were 459 and 801 genes differentially expressed at early and late seed maturation stages between vegetable pea and grain pea, respectively. Soluble sugar and starch metabolism related genes were significantly activated during the development of pea seeds coinciding with the onset of accumulation of sugar and starch in the seeds. A comparative analysis of genes involved in sugar and starch biosynthesis in vegetable pea (high seed soluble sugar and low starch) and grain pea (high seed starch and low soluble sugar) revealed that differential expression of related genes at late development stages results in a negative correlation between soluble sugar and starch biosynthetic flux in vegetable and grain pea seeds. RNA-Seq data was validated by using real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis for 30 randomly selected genes. To our knowledge, this work represents the first report of seed development transcriptomics in pea. The obtained results provide a foundation to support future efforts to unravel the underlying mechanisms that control the developmental biology of pea seeds, and serve as a valuable resource for improving pea breeding.
Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) arrays represent important genotyping tools for innovative strategies in both basic research and applied breeding. Pea is an important food, feed and sustainable crop with a large (about 4.45 Gbp) but not yet available genome sequence. In the present study, 12 pea recombinant inbred line populations were genotyped using the newly developed GenoPea 13.2K SNP Array. Individual and consensus genetic maps were built providing insights into the structure and organization of the pea genome. Largely collinear genetic maps of 3918-8503 SNPs were obtained from all mapping populations, and only two of these exhibited putative chromosomal rearrangement signatures. Similar distortion patterns in different populations were noted. A total of 12 802 transcript-derived SNP markers placed on a 15 079-marker high-density, high-resolution consensus map allowed the identification of ohnologue-rich regions within the pea genome and the localization of local duplicates. Dense syntenic networks with sequenced legume genomes were further established, paving the way for the identification of the molecular bases of important agronomic traits segregating in the mapping populations. The information gained on the structure and organization of the genome from this research will undoubtedly contribute to the understanding of the evolution of the pea genome and to its assembly. The GenoPea 13.2K SNP Array and individual and consensus genetic maps are valuable genomic tools for plant scientists to strengthen pea as a model for genetics and physiology and enhance breeding.
Essential oils have growth regulating properties comparable to the well-documented methyl jasmonate and may be involved in localized and/or airborne plant communication. Aromatic plants employ large amounts of resources to produce essential oils. Some essential oils are known to contain compounds with plant growth regulating activities. However, the potential capacity of essential oils as airborne molecules able to modulate plant growth/development has remained uninvestigated. Here, we demonstrate that essential oils from eight taxonomically diverse plants applied in their airborne state inhibited auxin-induced elongation of Pisum sativum hypocotyls and Avena sativa coleoptiles. This response was also observed using five monoterpenes commonly found in essential oils as well as isoprene, the basic building block of terpenes. Upon transfer to ambient conditions, A. sativa coleoptiles resumed elongation, demonstrating an antagonistic relationship rather than toxicity. Inclusion of essential oils, monoterpenes, or isoprene into the headspace of culture vessels induced abnormal cellular growth along hypocotyls of Arabidopsis thaliana. These responses were also elicited by methyl jasmonate (MeJA); however, where methyl jasmonate inhibited root growth essential oils did not. Gene expression studies in A. thaliana also demonstrated differences between the MeJA and isoprenoid responses. This series of experiments clearly demonstrate that essential oils and their isoprenoid components interact with endogenous plant growth regulators when applied directly or as volatile components in the headspace. The similarities between isoprenoid and MeJA responses suggest that they may act in plant defence signalling. While further studies are needed to determine the ecological and evolutionary significance, the results of this study and the specialized anatomy associated with aromatic plants suggest that essential oils may act as airborne signalling molecules.
Plants are able to lose organs selectively through a process called abscission. This process relies on the differentiation of specialized territories at the junction between organs and the plant body that are called abscission zones (AZ). Several genes control the formation or functioning of these AZ. We have characterized BLADE-ON-PETIOLE (BOP) orthologues from several legume plants and studied their roles in the abscission process using a mutant approach. Here, we show that the Medicago truncatula NODULE ROOT (NOOT), the Pisum sativum COCHLEATA (COCH) and their orthologue in Lotus japonicus are strictly necessary for the abscission of not only petals, but also leaflets, leaves and fruits. We also showed that the expression pattern of the M. truncatula pNOOT::GUS fusion is associated with functional and vestigial AZs when expressed in Arabidopsis. In addition, we show that the stip mutant from Lupinus angustifolius, defective in stipule formation and leaf abscission, is mutated in a BOP orthologue. In conclusion, this study shows that this clade of proteins plays an important conserved role in promoting abscission of all aerial organs studied so far.
Plant hormones play key roles in defence against pathogen attack. Recent work has begun to extend this role to encompass not just the traditional disease/stress hormones, such as ethylene, but also growth-promoting hormones. Strigolactones (SLs) are the most recently defined group of plant hormones with important roles in plant-microbe interactions, as well as aspects of plant growth and development, although the knowledge of their role in plant-pathogen interactions is extremely limited. The oomycete Pythium irregulare is a poorly controlled pathogen of many crops. Previous work has indicated an important role for ethylene in defence against this oomycete. We examined the role of ethylene and SLs in response to this pathogen in pea (Pisum sativum L.) at the molecular and whole-plant levels using a set of well-characterized hormone mutants, including an ethylene-insensitive ein2 mutant and SL-deficient and insensitive mutants. We identified a key role for ethylene signalling in specific cell types that reduces pathogen invasion, extending the work carried out in other species. However, we found no evidence that SL biosynthesis or response influences the interaction of pea with P. irregulare or that synthetic SL influences the growth or hyphal branching of the oomycete in vitro. Future work should seek to extend our understanding of the role of SLs in other plant interactions, including with other fungal, bacterial and viral pathogens, nematodes and insect pests.
KNOX transcription factors (TFs) regulate different aspects of plant development essentially through their effects on phytohormone metabolism. In particular, KNOX TF SHOOTMERISTEMLESS activates the cytokinin biosynthesis ISOPENTENYL TRANSFERASE (IPT) genes in the shoot apical meristem. However, the role of KNOX TFs in symbiotic nodule development and their possible effects on phytohormone metabolism during nodulation have not been studied to date. Cytokinin is a well-known regulator of nodule development, playing the key role in the regulation of cell division during nodule primordium formation. Recently, the activation of IPT genes was shown to take place during nodulation. Therefore, it was hypothesized that KNOX TFs may regulate nodule development and activate cytokinin biosynthesis upon nodulation. This study analysed the expression of different KNOX genes in Medicago truncatula Gaertn. and Pisum sativum L. Among them, the KNOX3 gene was upregulated in response to rhizobial inoculation in both species. pKNOX3::GUS activity was observed in developing nodule primordium. KNOX3 ectopic expression caused the formation of nodule-like structures on transgenic root without bacterial inoculation, a phenotype similar to one described previously for legumes with constitutive activation of the cytokinin receptor. Furthermore, in transgenic roots with MtKNOX3 knockdown, downregulation of A-type cytokinin response genes was found, as well as the MtIPT3 and LONELYGUY2 (MtLOG2) gene being involved in cytokinin activation. Taken together, these findings suggest that KNOX3 gene is involved in symbiotic nodule development and may regulate cytokinin biosynthesis/activation upon nodule development in legume plants.
Among a set of genes in pea (Pisum sativum L.) that were induced under drought-stress growth conditions, one encoded a protein with significant similarity to a regulator of chlorophyll catabolism, SGR. This gene, SGRL, is distinct from SGR in genomic location, encoded carboxy-terminal motif, and expression through plant and seed development. Divergence of the two encoded proteins is associated with a loss of similarity in intron/exon gene structure. Transient expression of SGRL in leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana promoted the degradation of chlorophyll, in a manner that was distinct from that shown by SGR. Removal of a predicted transmembrane domain from SGRL reduced its activity in transient expression assays, although variants with and without this domain reduced SGR-induced chlorophyll degradation, indicating that the effects of the two proteins are not additive. The combined data suggest that the function of SGRL during growth and development is in chlorophyll re-cycling, and its mode of action is distinct from that of SGR. Studies of pea sgrL mutants revealed that plants had significantly lower stature and yield, a likely consequence of reduced photosynthetic efficiencies in mutant compared with control plants under conditions of high light intensity.
Current concentrations of tropospheric ozone ([O3]) pollution negatively impact plant metabolism, which can result in decreased crop yields. Interspecific variation in the physiological response of plants to elevated [O3] exists; however, the underlying cellular responses explaining species-specific differences are largely unknown. Here, a physiological screen has been performed on multiple varieties of legume species. Three varieties of garden pea (Pisum sativum L.) were resilient to elevated [O3]. Garden pea showed no change in photosynthetic capacity or leaf longevity when exposed to elevated [O3], in contrast to varieties of soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) and common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). Global transcriptomic and targeted biochemical analyses were then done to examine the mechanistic differences in legume responses to elevated [O3]. In all three species, there was an O3-mediated reduction in specific leaf weight and total non-structural carbohydrate content, as well as increased abundance of respiration-related transcripts. Differences specific to garden pea included a pronounced increase in the abundance of GLUTATHIONE REDUCTASE transcript, as well as greater contents of foliar glutathione, apoplastic ascorbate, and sucrose in elevated [O3]. These results suggest that garden pea may have had greater capacity for detoxification, which prevented net losses in CO2 fixation in an elevated [O3] environment.
Next-generation sequencing technologies allow an almost exhaustive survey of the transcriptome, even in species with no available genome sequence. To produce a Unigene set representing most of the expressed genes of pea, 20 cDNA libraries produced from various plant tissues harvested at various developmental stages from plants grown under contrasting nitrogen conditions were sequenced. Around one billion reads and 100 Gb of sequence were de novo assembled. Following several steps of redundancy reduction, 46 099 contigs with N50 length of 1667 nt were identified. These constitute the 'Caméor' Unigene set. The high depth of sequencing allowed identification of rare transcripts and detected expression for approximately 80% of contigs in each library. The Unigene set is now available online (http://bios.dijon.inra.fr/FATAL/cgi/pscam.cgi), allowing (i) searches for pea orthologs of candidate genes based on gene sequences from other species, or based on annotation, (ii) determination of transcript expression patterns using various metrics, (iii) identification of uncharacterized genes with interesting patterns of expression, and (iv) comparison of gene ontology pathways between tissues. This resource has allowed identification of the pea orthologs of major nodulation genes characterized in recent years in model species, as a major step towards deciphering unresolved pea nodulation phenotypes. In addition to a remarkable conservation of the early transcriptome nodulation apparatus between pea and Medicago truncatula, some specific features were highlighted. The resource provides a reference for the pea exome, and will facilitate transcriptome and proteome approaches as well as SNP discovery in pea.
Root rot caused by Aphanomyces euteiches is one of the most destructive pea diseases while a distantly related species P. pisi has been recently described as the agent of pea and faba bean root rot. These two oomycete pathogens with different pathogenicity factor repertories have both evolved specific mechanisms to infect pea. However, little is known about the genes and mechanisms of defence against these pathogens in pea. In the present study, the transcriptomic response of pea to these two pathogens was investigated at two time points during early phase of infection using a Medicago truncatula microarray. Of the 37,976 genes analysed, 574 and 817 were differentially expressed in response to A. euteiches at 6 hpi and 20 hpi, respectively, while 544 and 611 genes were differentially regulated against P. pisi at 6 hpi and 20 hpi, respectively. Differentially expressed genes associated with plant immunity responses were involved in cell wall reinforcement, hormonal signalling and phenylpropanoid metabolism. Activation of cell wall modification, regulation of jasmonic acid biosynthesis and induction of ethylene signalling pathway were among the common transcriptional responses to both of these oomycetes. However, induction of chalcone synthesis and the auxin pathway were specific transcriptional changes against A. euteiches. Our results demonstrate a global view of differentially expressed pea genes during compatible interactions with P. pisi and A. euteiches at an early phase of infection. The results suggest that distinct signalling pathways are triggered in pea by these two pathogens that lead to common and specific immune mechanisms in response to these two oomycetes. The generated knowledge may eventually be used in breeding pea varieties with resistance against root rot disease.
Field pea (Pisum sativum L.) is a cool-season grain legume that is cultivated world-wide for both human consumption and stock-feed purposes. Enhancement of genetic and genomic resources for field pea will permit improved understanding of the control of traits relevant to crop productivity and quality. Advances in second-generation sequencing and associated bioinformatics analysis now provide unprecedented opportunities for the development of such resources. The objective of this study was to perform transcriptome sequencing and characterisation from two genotypes of field pea that differ in terms of seed and plant morphological characteristics. Transcriptome sequencing was performed with RNA templates from multiple tissues of the field pea genotypes Kaspa and Parafield. Tissue samples were collected at various growth stages, and a total of 23 cDNA libraries were sequenced using Illumina high-throughput sequencing platforms. A total of 407 and 352 million paired-end reads from the Kaspa and Parafield transcriptomes, respectively were assembled into 129,282 and 149,272 contigs, which were filtered on the basis of known gene annotations, presence of open reading frames (ORFs), reciprocal matches and degree of coverage. Totals of 126,335 contigs from Kaspa and 145,730 from Parafield were subsequently selected as the reference set. Reciprocal sequence analysis revealed that c. 87% of contigs were expressed in both cultivars, while a small proportion were unique to each genotype. Reads from different libraries were aligned to the genotype-specific assemblies in order to identify and characterise expression of contigs on a tissue-specific basis, of which 87% were expressed in more than one tissue, while others showed distinct expression patterns in specific tissues, providing unique transcriptome signatures. This study provided a comprehensive assembled and annotated transcriptome set for field pea that can be used for development of genetic markers, in order to assess genetic diversity, construct linkage maps, perform trait-dissection and implement whole-genome selection strategies in varietal improvement programs, as well to identify target genes for genetic modification approaches on the basis of annotation and expression analysis. In addition, the reference field pea transcriptome will prove highly valuable for comparative genomics studies and construction of a finalised genome sequence.
The perception of aphid infestation induces highly coordinated and sequential defensive reactions in plants at the cellular and molecular levels. The aim of the study was to explore kinetics of induced antioxidative defence responses in leaf cells of Pisum sativum L.cv. Cysterski upon infestation of the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum at varying population sizes, including accumulation of flavonoids, changes of carbon metabolism, and expression of nuclear genes involved in sugar transport. Within the first 96 h, after A. pisum infestation, flavonoid accumulation and increased peroxidase activity were observed in leaves. The level of pisatin increased after 48 h of infestation and reached a maximum at 96 h. At this time point, a higher concentration of flavonols was observed in the infested tissue than in the control. Additionally, strong post-infestation accumulation of chalcone synthase (CHS) and isoflavone synthase (IFS) transcription products was also found. The levels of sucrose and fructose in 24-h leaves infested by 10, 20, and 30 aphids were significantly lower than in the control. Moreover, in leaves infested by 30 aphids, the reduced sucrose level observed up to 48 h was accompanied by a considerable increase in the expression level of the PsSUT1 gene encoding the sucrose transporter. In conclusion, A. pisum infestation on pea leads to stimulation of metabolic pathways associated with defence.
We earlier reported 'PeIF5B' as a novel factor from Pisum sativum that has sequence similarity to eIF5B (S. Rasheedi, S. Ghosh, M. Suragani et al., P. sativum contains a factor with strong homology to eIF5B, Gene 399 (2007) 144-151). The main aim of the present study was to perform functional characterization of PeIF5B as an eIF5B homologue from plant system. PeIF5B shows binding to Met - tRNA(f)(Met), hydrolyses GTP and interacts with ribosomes. In vivo growth complementation analysis shows that PeIF5B partially complements its yeast homologue. Interestingly, PeIF5B mainly localizes in the nucleus as confirmed by nuclear localization signal (NLS) prediction, confocal imaging and immunoblots of cellular fractions. Similar to the yeast eIF5B but unlike the human orthologue, PeIF5B is an intron-less gene. This study highlights PeIF5B's role as a functional eIF5B homologue possibly participating in nuclear translation in plant system.
The evolution of plant reproductive strategies has led to a remarkable diversity of structures, especially within the flower, a structure characteristic of the angiosperms. In flowering plants, sexual reproduction depends notably on the development of the gynoecium that produces and protects the ovules. In Arabidopsis thaliana, ovule initiation is promoted by the concerted action of auxin with CUC1 (CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON1) and CUC2, two genes that encode transcription factors of the NAC family (NAM/ATAF1,2/CUC). Here we highlight an additional role for CUC2 and CUC3 in Arabidopsis thaliana ovule separation. While CUC1 and CUC2 are broadly expressed in the medial tissue of the gynoecium, CUC2 and CUC3 are expressed in the placental tissue between developing ovules. Consistent with the partial overlap between CUC1, CUC2 and CUC3 expression patterns, we show that CUC proteins can physically interact, both in yeast cells and in planta. We found that the cuc2;cuc3 double mutant specifically harbours defects in ovule separation, producing fused seeds that share the seed coat, and suggesting that CUC2 and CUC3 promote ovule separation in a partially redundant manner. Functional analyses show that CUC transcription factors are also involved in ovule development in Cardamine hirsuta. Additionally we show a conserved expression pattern of CUC orthologues between ovule primordia in other phylogenetically distant species with different gynoecium architectures. Taken together these results suggest an ancient role for CUC transcription factors in ovule separation, and shed light on the conservation of mechanisms involved in the development of innovative structures.
Microbial consortia may provide protection against pathogenic ingress via enhancing plant defense responses. Pseudomonas aeruginosa PJHU15, Trichoderma harzianum TNHU27 and Bacillus subtilis BHHU100 were used either singly or in consortia in the pea rhizosphere to observe proteome level changes upon Sclerotinia sclerotiorum challenge. Thirty proteins were found to increase or decrease differentially in 2-DE gels of pea leaves, out of which 25 were identified by MALDI-TOF MS or MS/MS. These proteins were classified into several functional categories including photosynthesis, respiration, phenylpropanoid metabolism, protein synthesis, stress regulation, carbohydrate and nitrogen metabolism and disease/defense-related processes. The respective homologue of each protein identified was trapped in Pisum sativum and a phylogenetic tree was constructed to check the ancestry. The proteomic view of the defense response to S. sclerotiorum in pea, in the presence of beneficial microbes, highlights the enhanced protection that can be provided by these microbes in challenged plants.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS), especially hydrogen peroxide, play a critical role in the regulation of plant development and in the induction of plant defence responses during stress adaptation, as well as in plant cell death. The antioxidant system is responsible for controlling ROS levels in these processes but redox homeostasis is also a key factor in plant cell metabolism under normal and stress situations. Thioredoxins (Trxs) are ubiquitous small proteins found in different cell compartments, including mitochondria and nuclei (Trxo1), and are involved in the regulation of target proteins through reduction of disulphide bonds, although their role under oxidative stress has been less well studied. This study describes over-expression of a Trxo1 for the first time, using a cell-culture model subjected to an oxidative treatment provoked by H2O2. Control and over-expressing PsTrxo1 tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells were treated with 35 mm H2O2 and the effects were analysed by studying the growth dynamics of the cultures together with oxidative stress parameters, as well as several components of the antioxidant systems involved in the metabolism of H2O2. Analysis of different hallmarks of programmed cell death was also carried out. Over-expression of PsTrxo1 caused significant differences in the response of TBY-2 cells to high concentrations of H2O2, namely higher and maintained viability in over-expressing cells, whilst the control line presented a severe decrease in viability and marked indications of oxidative stress, with generalized cell death after 3 d of treatment. In over-expressing cells, an increase in catalase activity, decreases in H2O2 and nitric oxide contents and maintenance of the glutathione redox state were observed. A decreased content of endogenous H2O2 may be responsible in part for the delayed cell death found in over-expressing cells, in which changes in oxidative parameters and antioxidants were less extended after the oxidative treatment. It is concluded that PsTrxo1 transformation protects TBY-2 cells from exogenous H2O2, thus increasing their viability via a process in which not only antioxidants but also Trxo1 seem to be involved.
The plant hormone auxin activates primary response genes by facilitating proteolytic removal of auxin/indole-3-acetic acid (AUX/IAA)-inducible repressors, which directly bind to transcriptional auxin response factors (ARF). Most AUX/IAA and ARF proteins share highly conserved C-termini mediating homotypic and heterotypic interactions within and between both protein families. The high-resolution NMR structure of C-terminal domains III and IV of the AUX/IAA protein PsIAA4 from pea (Pisum sativum) revealed a globular ubiquitin-like β-grasp fold with homologies to the Phox and Bem1p (PB1) domain. The PB1 domain of wild-type PsIAA4 features two distinct surface patches of oppositely charged amino acid residues, mediating front-to-back multimerization via electrostatic interactions. Mutations of conserved basic or acidic residues on either face suppressed PsIAA4 PB1 homo-oligomerization in vitro and confirmed directional interaction of full-length PsIAA4 in vivo (yeast two-hybrid system). Mixing of oppositely mutated PsIAA4 PB1 monomers enabled NMR mapping of the negatively charged interface of the reconstituted PsIAA4 PB1 homodimer variant, whose stoichiometry (1:1) and equilibrium binding constant (KD ∼ 6.4 μM) were determined by isothermal titration calorimetry. In silico protein-protein docking studies based on NMR and yeast interaction data derived a model of the PsIAA4 PB1 homodimer, which is comparable with other PB1 domain dimers, but indicated considerable differences between the homodimeric interfaces of AUX/IAA and ARF PB1 domains. Our study provides an impetus for elucidating the molecular determinants that confer specificity to complex protein-protein interaction circuits between members of the two central families of transcription factors important to the regulation of auxin-responsive gene expression.
CuZn-Superoxide dismutase (SOD) is a unique enzyme, which can catalyzes the dismutation of inevitable metabolic product i.e.; superoxide anion into molecular oxygen and hydrogen peroxide. The enzyme has gained wide interest in pharmaceutical industries due to its highly acclaimed antioxidative properties. The recombinant expression of this protein in its enzymatically active and stable form is highly desired and hence optimization of culture conditions and characterization of the related biochemical properties are essential to explore the significance of the enzyme in physiological, therapeutic, structural and transgenic research. High-level expression of the chloroplastic isoform of Pisum sativum CuZn-SOD was achieved at 18°C, upon isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside induction and the process was optimized for maximum recovery of the protein in its soluble (enzymatically active) form. Both crude and purified protein fractions display significant increase in activity following supplementation of defined concentration Cu (CuSO4) and Zn (ZnSO4). Yield of the purified recombinant protein was ~ 4 mg L(-1) of culture volume and the bacterial biomass was ~ 4.5 g L(-1). The recombinant pea chloroplastic SOD was found to possess nearly 6 fold higher superoxide dismutase activity and the peroxidase activity was also 5 fold higher as compared to commercially available CuZn-superoxide dismutase. The computational, spectroscopic and biochemical characterization reveals that the protein harbors all the characteristics features of this class of enzyme. The enzyme was found to be exceptionally stable as evident from pH and temperature incubation studies and maintenance of SOD activity upon prolonged storage. Overexpression and purification strategy presented here describes an efficient protocol for the production of a highly active and stable CuZn-superoxide dismutase in its recombinant form in E. coli system. The strategy can be utilized for the large-scale preparation of active CuZn-superoxide dismutase and thus it has wide application in pharmaceutical industries and also for elucidating the potential of this protein endowed with exceptional stability and activity.
DNA helicases are motor proteins that play an essential role in nucleic acid metabolism, by providing a duplex-unwinding function. To improve the drought and salinity tolerance of sugarcane, a DEAD-box helicase gene isolated from pea with a constitutive promoter, Port Ubi 2.3 was transformed into the commercial sugarcane variety Co 86032 through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, and the transgenics were screened for tolerance to soil moisture stress and salinity. The transgene integration was confirmed through polymerase chain reaction, and the V 0 transgenic events showed significantly higher cell membrane thermostability under normal irrigated conditions. The V 1 transgenic events were screened for tolerance to soil moisture stress and exhibited significantly higher cell membrane thermostability, transgene expression, relative water content, gas exchange parameters, chlorophyll content, and photosynthetic efficiency under soil moisture stress compared to wild-type (WT). The overexpression of PDH45 transgenic sugarcane also led to the upregulation of DREB2-induced downstream stress-related genes. The transgenic events demonstrated higher germination ability and better chlorophyll retention than WT under salinity stress. Our results suggest the possibility for development of increased abiotic stress tolerant sugarcane cultivars through overexpression of PDH45 gene. Perhaps this is the first report, which provides evidence for increased drought and salinity tolerance in sugarcane through overexpression of PDH45.
Sugar has only recently been identified as a key player in triggering bud outgrowth, while hormonal control of bud outgrowth is already well established. To get a better understanding of sugar control, the present study investigated how sugar availability modulates the hormonal network during bud outgrowth in Rosa hybrida. Other plant models, for which mutants are available, were used when necessary. Buds were grown in vitro to manipulate available sugars. The temporal patterns of the hormonal regulatory network were assessed in parallel with bud outgrowth dynamics. Sucrose determined bud entrance into sustained growth in a concentration-dependent manner. Sustained growth was accompanied by sustained auxin production in buds, and sustained auxin export in a DR5::GUS-expressing pea line. Several events occurred ahead of sucrose-stimulated bud outgrowth. Sucrose upregulated early auxin synthesis genes (RhTAR1, RhYUC1) and the auxin efflux carrier gene RhPIN1, and promoted PIN1 abundance at the plasma membrane in a pPIN1::PIN1-GFP-expressing tomato line. Sucrose downregulated both RwMAX2, involved in the strigolactone-transduction pathway, and RhBRC1, a repressor of branching, at an early stage. The presence of sucrose also increased stem cytokinin content, but sucrose-promoted bud outgrowth was not related to that pathway. In these processes, several non-metabolizable sucrose analogues induced sustained bud outgrowth in R. hybrida, Pisum sativum, and Arabidopsis thaliana, suggesting that sucrose was involved in a signalling pathway. In conclusion, we identified potential hormonal candidates for bud outgrowth control by sugar. They are central to future investigations aimed at disentangling the processes that underlie regulation of bud outgrowth by sugar.
Lectin receptor-like kinases (LecRLKs) are members of RLK family composed of lectin-like extracellular recognition domain, transmembrane domain and cytoplasmic kinase domain. LecRLKs are plasma membrane proteins believed to be involved in signal transduction. However, most of the members of the protein family even in plants have not been functionally well characterized. Herein, we show that Pisum sativum LecRLK (PsLecRLK) localized in plasma membrane systems and/or other regions of the cell and its transcript upregulated under salinity stress. Overexpression of PsLecRLK in transgenic tobacco plants confers salinity stress tolerance by alleviating both the ionic as well the osmotic component of salinity stress. The transgenic plants show better tissue compartmentalization of Na(+) and higher ROS scavenging activity which probably results in lower membrane damage, improved growth and yield maintenance even under salinity stress. Also, expression of several genes involved in cellular homeostasis is perturbed by PsLecRLK overexpression. Alleviation of osmotic and ionic components of salinity stress along with reduced oxidative damage and upregulation of stress-responsive genes in transgenic plants under salinity stress conditions could be possible mechanism facilitating enhanced stress tolerance. This study presents PsLecRLK as a promising candidate for crop improvement and also opens up new avenue to investigate its signalling pathway.
It is known that two key groups of plant hormones--auxins and cytokinins--play an important role in plant tumor development. The formation of Agrobacterium-induced tumors results from the horizontal transfer of bacterial oncogenes involved in the biosynthesis of these hormones in the plant genome. The role of transcriptional factors in plant tumor development is poorly investigated. It can be assumed that tumor development associated with abnormal cell proliferation can be controlled by the same set of transcription factors that control normal cell proliferation and, in particular, transcription factors that regulate meristem activity. In the present study, we analyzed the histological organization and distribution of proliferating cells in tumors induced by Agrobacterium tumefaciens on pea hypocotyls. In addition, the expression of a set of meristem-specific genes with Agrobacterium tumefaciens-induced tumor development was analyzed. In general, our results indicate that meristematic structures are present in A. tumefaciens-induced tumors and that the development of such tumors is associated with increased expression of a key gene regulating the root apical meristem--the WOX5 gene.
As knowledge of the gene networks regulating inflorescence development in Arabidopsis thaliana improves, the current challenge is to characterize this system in different groups of crop species with different inflorescence architecture. Pea (Pisum sativum) has served as a model for development of the compound raceme, characteristic of many legume species, and in this study, we characterize the pea VEGETATIVE2 (VEG2) locus, showing that it is critical for regulation of flowering and inflorescence development and identifying it as a homolog of the bZIP transcription factor FD. Through detailed phenotypic characterizations of veg2 mutants, expression analyses, and the use of protein-protein interaction assays, we find that VEG2 has important roles during each stage of development of the pea compound inflorescence. Our results suggest that VEG2 acts in conjunction with multiple FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) proteins to regulate expression of downstream target genes, including TERMINAL FLOWER1, LEAFY, and MADS box homologs, and to facilitate cross-regulation within the FT gene family. These findings further extend our understanding of the mechanisms underlying compound inflorescence development in pea and may have wider implications for future manipulation of inflorescence architecture in related legume crop species.
Photosystem II (PS II) is a multi-subunit complex localized in the thylakoid membrane that performs the light-dependent photosynthetic charge separation. The PS II reaction centre comprises, among others, the D1 protein. De novo synthesis and repair of PS II require efficient mechanisms for transport and insertion of plastid encoded D1 into the thylakoid membrane. To elucidate the process of D1 insertion, we used an in vitro translation system derived from pea chloroplasts to reconstitute the D1 insertion. Thereby, truncated D1 encoding psbA mRNAs lacking a stop codon were translated in the presence of thylakoid membranes and the translation was stalled by addition of chloramphenicol. The generated ribosome nascent chain complexes (RNCs) were tightly associated with the thylakoids. Subsequently, these D1 insertion intermediates were enriched from solubilized thylakoids by sucrose cushion centrifugation. Immunological analyses demonstrated the presence of the cpSec translocase, Alb3, cpFtsY, cpSRP54 and Vipp1 (vesicle-inducing protein in plastids 1) in the enriched D1 insertion intermediates. A complex formation between cpSecY, Alb3, cpFtsY and Vipp1 in thylakoid membranes was shown by gel filtration chromatography, BN (Blue Native)/SDS-PAGE and co-immunoprecipitation experiments. Furthermore, a stimulating effect of recombinant Vipp1 on the formation of a D1 insertion intermediate was observed in vitro. These results suggest a co-operative function of these proteins in D1 insertion.
Plant responses to light involve a complex network of interactions among multiple plant hormones. In a screen for mutants showing altered photomorphogenesis under red light, we identified a mutant with dramatically enhanced leaf expansion and delayed petal senescence. We show that this mutant exhibits reduced sensitivity to ethylene and carries a nonsense mutation in the single pea (Pisum sativum) ortholog of the ethylene signaling gene ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE2 (EIN2). Consistent with this observation, the ein2 mutation rescues the previously described effects of ethylene overproduction in mature phytochrome-deficient plants. In seedlings, ein2 confers a marked increase in leaf expansion under monochromatic red, far-red, or blue light, and interaction with phytochromeA, phytochromeB, and long1 mutants confirms that ein2 enhances both phytochrome- and cryptochrome-dependent responses in a LONG1-dependent manner. In contrast, minimal effects of ein2 on seedling development in darkness or high-irradiance white light show that ethylene is not limiting for development under these conditions. These results indicate that ethylene signaling constrains leaf expansion during deetiolation in pea and provide further evidence that down-regulation of ethylene production may be an important component mechanism in the broader control of photomorphogenic development by phytochrome and cryptochrome.
PsSEOF1, a SEO (sieve element occlusion) gene family protein (forisome) is calcium powered motor protein and is located close to plasma membrane of sieve element. In sieve element (SE) it senses the calcium ion levels and undergoes ATP-independent conformational shifts. Forisome, meaning gate-bodies (Latin foris: wing of a gate; Greek soma: body). Recent reports show that SEO gene family protein can prevent the loss of nutrient rich photoassimilate upon wound injury. The regulation of SEO protein forisome under abiotic/ biotic stress is still unknown. The analysis of cis-regulatory element present in the upstream region is not well understood. Tissue specific promoters guarantee correct expression when it perceives particular stimuli. Here we report isolation of tissue specific promoter of PsSEOF1 was isolated by gene walking PCR from P. sativum (pea) genomic DNA library constructed by BD genome walker kit. In silico analysis revealed several putative cis element within this promoter sequence like wound response, cold, dehydration. Putative elements which might be required for its vascular tissue specificity has also been identified. The GUS activities of PsSEOF1 promoter-GUS chimeric construct in the agroinfiltrated leaves under different environmental stress abiotic and biotic like wound, cold, salt and phytohormones has shown high level of GUS activity. To identify the activity of PsSEOF1 promoter under different stress condition an Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression of tobacco plants were subjected to histochemical GUS staining. Stress-inducible nature of PsSEOF1 promoter opens possibility for the study of the PsSEOF1 gene regulation under stress condition. The isolated promoter sequence could serve as an important candidate for tissue specific promoter in genetic engineering of plant under stress conditions.
Rhizobia are able to establish a beneficial interaction with legumes by forming a new organ, called the symbiotic root nodule, which is a unique ecological niche for rhizobial nitrogen fixation. Rhizobial infection has many similarities with pathogenic infection and induction of defence responses accompanies both interactions, but defence responses are induced to a lesser extent during rhizobial infection. However, strong defence responses may result from incompatible interactions between legumes and rhizobia due to a mutation in either macro- or microsymbiont. The aim of this research was to analyse different plant defence reactions in response to Rhizobium infection for several pea (Pisum sativum) mutants that result in ineffective symbiosis. Pea mutants were examined by histochemical and immunocytochemical analyses, light, fluorescence and transmission electron microscopy and quantitative real-time PCR gene expression analysis. It was observed that mutations in pea symbiotic genes sym33 (PsIPD3/PsCYCLOPS encoding a transcriptional factor) and sym40 (PsEFD encoding a putative negative regulator of the cytokinin response) led to suberin depositions in ineffective nodules, and in the sym42 there were callose depositions in infection thread (IT) and host cell walls. The increase in deposition of unesterified pectin in IT walls was observed for mutants in the sym33 and sym42; for mutant in the sym42, unesterified pectin was also found around degrading bacteroids. In mutants in the genes sym33 and sym40, an increase in the expression level of a gene encoding peroxidase was observed. In the genes sym40 and sym42, an increase in the expression levels of genes encoding a marker of hypersensitive reaction and PR10 protein was demonstrated. Thus, a range of plant defence responses like suberisation, callose and unesterified pectin deposition as well as activation of defence genes can be triggered by different pea single mutations that cause perception of an otherwise beneficial strain of Rhizobium as a pathogen.
Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is an alternative reverse genetics tool for silencing of genes in some plants which are difficult to transform. The pea early browning virus (PEBV) has been developed as a VIGS vector and used in pea for functional analysis of several genes. Here, a PEBV-VIGS protocol is described which is suitable for reverse genetics studies in pea for genes involved in the symbiosis with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and Rhizobium.
Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) are responsible for oxidation of biogenic aldehyde intermediates as well as for cell detoxification of aldehydes generated during lipid peroxidation. So far, 13 ALDH families have been described in plants. In the present study, we provide a detailed biochemical characterization of plant ALDH2 and ALDH7 families by analysing maize and pea ALDH7 (ZmALDH7 and PsALDH7) and four maize cytosolic ALDH(cALDH)2 isoforms RF2C, RF2D, RF2E and RF2F [the first maize ALDH2 was discovered as a fertility restorer (RF2A)]. We report the crystal structures of ZmALDH7, RF2C and RF2F at high resolution. The ZmALDH7 structure shows that the three conserved residues Glu(120), Arg(300) and Thr(302) in the ALDH7 family are located in the substrate-binding site and are specific to this family. Our kinetic analysis demonstrates that α-aminoadipic semialdehyde, a lysine catabolism intermediate, is the preferred substrate for plant ALDH7. In contrast, aromatic aldehydes including benzaldehyde, anisaldehyde, cinnamaldehyde, coniferaldehyde and sinapaldehyde are the best substrates for cALDH2. In line with these results, the crystal structures of RF2C and RF2F reveal that their substrate-binding sites are similar and are formed by an aromatic cluster mainly composed of phenylalanine residues and several nonpolar residues. Gene expression studies indicate that the RF2C gene, which is strongly expressed in all organs, appears essential, suggesting that the crucial role of the enzyme would certainly be linked to the cell wall formation using aldehydes from phenylpropanoid pathway as substrates. Finally, plant ALDH7 may significantly contribute to osmoprotection because it oxidizes several aminoaldehydes leading to products known as osmolytes.
Chitosan (partially deacetylated chitin), a component of fungal cell walls, caused epidermal cell (EC) death in the leaves of pea (Pisum sativum L.) and tobacco Nicotiana tabacum or Nicotiana benthamiana detected by destruction of cell nuclei. The mitochondria-targeted quinone SkQ1 prevented the destruction of EC nuclei induced by chitosan. Chitosan increased and SkQ1 suppressed the activity of protein kinases in N. benthamiana and P. sativum and eliminated the effect of chitosan. Chitosan induced the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the guard cells (GC) of pea plants. Treatment with chitosan or H2O2 did not cause destruction of GC nuclei; however, it resulted in disruption of the permeability barrier of the plasma membrane detected by propidium iodide fluorescence. Treatment with bacterial lipopolysaccharide but not peptidoglycan caused destruction of pea EC nuclei, which was prevented by SkQ1. Leaves of tobacco plants containing the N gene responsible for resistance to tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) were infiltrated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens cells. These cells contained a genetic construct with the gene of the helicase domain of TMV replicase (p50); its protein product p50 is a target for the N-gene product. As a result, the hypersensitive response (HR) was initiated. The HR manifested itself in the death of leaves and was suppressed by SkQ3. Treatment of tobacco epidermal peels with the A. tumefaciens cells for the p50 gene expression stimulated the destruction of EC nuclei, which was inhibited by SkQ1 or SkQ3. The p50-lacking A. tumefaciens cells did not induce the destruction of EC nuclei. The protective effect of mitochondria-targeted antioxidants SkQ1 and SkQ3 demonstrates the involvement of mitochondria and their ROS in programmed cell death caused by pathogen elicitors.
We analysed the interplay between the cpSecY, cpSRP54 and the chloroplast-encoded cytochrome b6 via isolation of chloroplast ribosome nascent chain complexes and the use of cross-linking factors, antibodies and mass spectroscopy analyses. We showed that the cytochrome b6 nascent polypeptide complex is tightly associated with ribosomes and that the translation of cytochrome b6 was discontinuous. The causes of ribosome pausing and the functional significance of this phenomenon may be related to proper protein folding, insertion into thylakoid membranes and the association of cofactors during this process. It was also found that cpSecY was not in the vicinity of cytochrome b6 intermediates during the elongation process and does not act with mature cytochrome b6 after translation. Using the approach of cross-linking during elongation of the cytochrome b6 protein, we showed that cpSRP54 interacts strongly with the elongating nascent chain.
EaDREB2 overexpressed in sugarcane enhanced tolerance to drought and salinity. When co-transformed with plant DNA helicase gene, DREB2 showed greater level of salinity tolerance than in single-gene transgenics. Drought is one of the most challenging agricultural issues limiting sustainable sugarcane production and can potentially cause up to 50 % yield loss. DREB proteins play a vital regulatory role in abiotic stress tolerance in plants. We previously reported that expression of EaDREB2 is enhanced by drought stress in Erianthus arundinaceus. In this study, we have isolated the DREB2 gene from E. arundinaceus, transformed one of the most popular sugarcane variety Co 86032 in tropical India with EaDREB2 through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, pyramided the EaDREB2 gene with the gene coding for PDH45 driven by Port Ubi 2.3 promoter through particle bombardment and evaluated the V1 transgenics for soil deficit moisture and salinity stresses. Soil moisture stress was imposed at the tillering phase by withholding irrigation. Physiological, molecular and morphological parameters were used to assess drought tolerance. Salinity tolerance was assessed through leaf disc senescence and bud sprout assays under salinity stress. Our results indicate that overexpression of EaDREB2 in sugarcane enhances drought and salinity tolerance to a greater extent than the untransformed control plants. This is the first report of the co-transformation of EaDREB2 and PDH45 which shows higher salinity tolerance but lower drought tolerance than EaDREB2 alone. The present study seems to suggest that, for combining drought and salinity tolerance together, co-transformation is a better approach.
Two histone H1 subtype genes, His7 and His5, were sequenced in a set of 56 pea accessions. Phylogenetic reconstruction based on concatenated His5 and His7 sequences had three main clades. First clade corresponded to Pisum fulvum, the next divergence separated a clade inside Pisum sativum in the broad sense that did not correspond strictly to any proposed taxonomical subdivisions. According to our estimations, the earliest divergence separating P. fulvum occurred 1.7±0.4MYA. The other divergence with high bootstrap support that separated two P. sativum groups took place approximately 1.3±0.3MYA. Thus, the main divergences in the genus took place either in late Pliocene or in early Pleistocene, the time of onset of the profound climate cooling in the northern hemisphere. The ω=K(a)/K(s) ratio was 2.5 times higher for His5 sequences than for His7. Thus, His7 gene, coding for a unique subtype specific for actively growing tissues, might have evolved under stricter evolutionary constraints than His5, that codes for a minor H1 subtype with less specific expression pattern. For this reason phylogenetic reconstructions separately obtained from His5 sequences resolved tree topology much better than those obtained from His7 sequences. Computational estimation of population dynamic parameters in the genus Pisum L. from His5-His7 sequences using IMa2 software revealed a decrease of effective population size on the early stage of Pisum evolution.
Continually exposed to potential pathogens, vascular plants have evolved intricate defense mechanisms to recognize encroaching threats and defend themselves. They do so by inducing a set of defense responses that can help defeat and/or limit effects of invading pathogens, of which the non-host disease resistance response is the most common. In this regard, pea (Pisum sativum) pod tissue, when exposed to Fusarium solani f. sp. phaseoli spores, undergoes an inducible transcriptional activation of pathogenesis-related genes, and also produces (+)-pisatin, its major phytoalexin. One of the inducible pathogenesis-related genes is Disease Resistance Response-206 (DRR206), whose role in vivo was unknown. DRR206 is, however, related to the dirigent protein (DP) family. In this study, its biochemical function was investigated in planta, with the metabolite associated with its gene induction being pinoresinol monoglucoside. Interestingly, both pinoresinol monoglucoside and (+)-pisatin were co-localized in pea pod endocarp epidermal cells, as demonstrated using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry imaging. In addition, endocarp epidermal cells are also the site for both chalcone synthase and DRR206 gene expression. Taken together, these data indicate that both (+)-pisatin and pinoresinol monoglucoside function in the overall phytoalexin responses.
The pharmacological activities of herbal extracts can be enhanced by complex formation. In this study, we manipulated cyanidin and delphinidin-rich extracts to form an anthocyanin complex (AC) with turmeric and evaluated activity against inflammation and periductal fibrosis in Opisthorchis viverrini-infected hamsters. The AC was prepared from anthocyanins extracted from cobs of purple waxy corn (70%), petals of blue butterfly pea (20%) and turmeric extract (10%), resulting in an enhanced free-radical scavenging capacity. Oral administration of AC (175 and 700 mg/kg body weight) every day for 1 month to O. viverrini-infected hamsters resulted in reduced inflammatory cells and periductal fibrosis. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and partial least square discriminant analysis suggested nucleic acid changes in the O. viverrini-infected liver samples, which were partially prevented by the AC treatment. AC reduced 8-oxodG formation, an oxidative DNA damage marker, significantly decreased levels of nitrite in the plasma and alanine aminotransferase activity and increased the ferric reducing ability of plasma. AC also decreased the expression of oxidant-related genes (NF-κB and iNOS) and increased the expression of antioxidant-related genes (CAT, SOD, and GPx). Thus, AC increases free-radical scavenging capacity, decreases inflammation, suppresses oxidative/nitrative stress, and reduces liver injury and periductal fibrosis in O. viverrini-infected hamsters.
Grain aphid (Sitobion avenae F) and pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum) are two agriculturally important pest species, which cause significant yield losses to crop plants each year by inflicting damage both through the direct effects of feeding and by vectoring debilitating plant viruses. Although a close phylogenetic relationship between grain aphid and pea aphid was proposed, the biological variations between these two aphid species are obvious. While the host ranges of grain aphid is restricted to cereal crops and in particular wheat, that of pea aphid is wider, mainly colonizing leguminous plant species. Until now, the genetic factors underlying the divergence between grain aphid and pea aphid still remain unclear due to the limited genomic data of grain aphid available in public databases. Based on a set of transcriptome data of grain aphid generated by using Roche 454 GS-FLX pyrosequencing, comparative analysis between this set of transcriptome data of grain aphid and mRNA sequences of pea aphid available in the public databases was performed. Compared with mRNA sequences of pea aphid, 4,857 unigenes were found to be specifically presented in the transcriptome of grain aphid under the rearing conditions described in this study. Furthermore, 3,368 orthologous pairs which could be calculated with both nonsynonymous (Ka) and synonymous (Ks) substitutions were used to infer their sequence divergences. The average differences in the coding, 5' and 3' untranslated regions of these orthologs were 10.53%, 21.29% and 18.96%, respectively. Moreover, of 340 orthologs which were identified to have evolved in response to positive selection based on the rates of Ka and Ks substitutions, 186 were predicted to be involved in secondary metabolism and xenobiotic metabolisms which might contribute to the divergence of these two aphid species. The comprehensive transcriptome divergent sequence analysis between grain aphid and pea aphid provides an invaluable resource for the investigation of genes involved in host plant adaptation and evolution. Moreover, the demonstration of divergent transcriptome sequences between grain aphid and pea aphid pave the way for the investigation of the molecular mechanisms underpinning the biological variations of these two agriculturally important aphid species.
Several studies have shown that differences in lipid composition and in the lipid biosynthetic pathway affect the aluminium (Al) tolerance of plants, but little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying these differences. Phospholipids create a negative charge at the surface of the plasma membrane and enhance Al sensitivity as a result of the accumulation of positively charged Al(3+) ions. The phospholipids will be balanced by other electrically neutral lipids, such as sterols. In the present research, Al tolerance was compared among pea (Pisum sativum) genotypes. Compared with Al-tolerant genotypes, the Al-sensitive genotype accumulated more Al in the root tip, had a less intact plasma membrane, and showed a lower expression level of PsCYP51, which encodes obtusifoliol-14α-demethylase (OBT 14DM), a key sterol biosynthetic enzyme. The ratio of phospholipids to sterols was higher in the sensitive genotype than in the tolerant genotypes, suggesting that the sterol biosynthetic pathway plays an important role in Al tolerance. Consistent with this idea, a transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana line with knocked-down AtCYP51 expression showed an Al-sensitive phenotype. Uniconazole-P, an inhibitor of OBT 14DM, suppressed the Al tolerance of Al-tolerant genotypes of maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), rice (Oryza sativa), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and triticale (×Triticosecale Wittmark cv. Currency). These results suggest that increased sterol content, regulated by CYP51, with concomitant lower phospholipid content in the root tip, results in lower negativity of the plasma membrane. This appears to be a common strategy for Al tolerance among several plant species.
LEAM, a late embryogenesis abundant protein, and HSP22, a small heat shock protein, were shown to accumulate in the mitochondria during pea (Pisum sativum L.) seed development, where they are expected to contribute to desiccation tolerance. Here, their expression was examined in seeds of 89 pea genotypes by Western blot analysis. All genotypes expressed LEAM and HSP22 in similar amounts. In contrast with HSP22, LEAM displayed different isoforms according to apparent molecular mass. Each of the 89 genotypes harboured a single LEAM isoform. Genomic and RT-PCR analysis revealed four LEAM genes differing by a small variable indel in the coding region. These variations were consistent with the apparent molecular mass of each isoform. Indels, which occurred in repeated domains, did not alter the main properties of LEAM. Structural modelling indicated that the class A α-helix structure, which allows interactions with the mitochondrial inner membrane in the dry state, was preserved in all isoforms, suggesting functionality is maintained. The overall results point out the essential character of LEAM and HSP22 in pea seeds. LEAM variability is discussed in terms of pea breeding history as well as LEA gene evolution mechanisms.
The development of sink organs such as fruits and seeds strongly depends on the amount of nitrogen that is moved within the phloem from photosynthetic-active source leaves to the reproductive sinks. In many plant species nitrogen is transported as amino acids. In pea (Pisum sativum L.), source to sink partitioning of amino acids requires at least two active transport events mediated by plasma membrane-localized proteins, and these are: (i) amino acid phloem loading; and (ii) import of amino acids into the seed cotyledons via epidermal transfer cells. As each of these transport steps might potentially be limiting to efficient nitrogen delivery to the pea embryo, we manipulated both simultaneously. Additional copies of the pea amino acid permease PsAAP1 were introduced into the pea genome and expression of the transporter was targeted to the sieve element-companion cell complexes of the leaf phloem and to the epidermis of the seed cotyledons. The transgenic pea plants showed increased phloem loading and embryo loading of amino acids resulting in improved long distance transport of nitrogen, sink development and seed protein accumulation. Analyses of root and leaf tissues further revealed that genetic manipulation positively affected root nitrogen uptake, as well as primary source and sink metabolism. Overall, the results suggest that amino acid phloem loading exerts regulatory control over pea biomass production and seed yield, and that import of amino acids into the cotyledons limits seed protein levels.
The LEED..PEED (LP) gene family in Medicago truncatula (A17) is composed of 13 genes coding small putatively secreted peptides with one to two conserved domains of negatively charged residues. This family is not present in the genomes of Glycine max, Lotus japonicus, or the IRLC species Cicer arietinum. LP genes were also not detected in a Trifolium pratense draft genome or Pisum sativum nodule transcriptome, which were sequenced de novo in this study, suggesting that the LP gene family arose within the past 25 million years. M. truncatula accession HM056 has 13 LP genes with high similarity to those in A17, whereas M. truncatula ssp. tricycla (R108) and M. sativa have 11 and 10 LP gene copies, respectively. In M. truncatula A17, 12 LP genes are located on chromosome 7 within a 93-kb window, whereas one LP gene copy is located on chromosome 4. A phylogenetic analysis of the gene family is consistent with most gene duplications occurring prior to Medicago speciation events, mainly through local tandem duplications and one distant duplication across chromosomes. Synteny comparisons between R108 and A17 confirm that gene order is conserved between the two subspecies, although a further duplication occurred solely in A17. In M. truncatula A17, all 13 LPs are exclusively transcribed in nodules and absent from other plant tissues, including roots, leaves, flowers, seeds, seed shells, and pods. The recent expansion of LP genes in Medicago spp. and their timing and location of expression suggest a novel function in nodulation, possibly as an aftermath of the evolution of bacteroid terminal differentiation or potentially associated with rhizobial-host specificity.
Salicylic acid is an important signalling molecule in plant-microbe defence and symbiosis. We analysed the transcriptional responses of the nitrogen fixing plant symbiont, Rhizobium leguminosarum bv viciae 3841 to salicylic acid. Two MFS-type multicomponent efflux systems were induced in response to salicylic acid, rmrAB and the hitherto undescribed system salRAB. Based on sequence similarity salA and salB encode a membrane fusion and inner membrane protein respectively. salAB are positively regulated by the LysR regulator SalR. Disruption of salA significantly increased the sensitivity of the mutant to salicylic acid, while disruption of rmrA did not. A salA/rmrA double mutation did not have increased sensitivity relative to the salA mutant. Pea plants nodulated by salA or rmrA strains did not have altered nodule number or nitrogen fixation rates, consistent with weak expression of salA in the rhizosphere and in nodule bacteria. However, BLAST analysis revealed seventeen putative efflux systems in Rlv3841 and several of these were highly differentially expressed during rhizosphere colonisation, host infection and bacteroid differentiation. This suggests they have an integral role in symbiosis with host plants.
Gene-based SNPs were identified and mapped in pea using five recombinant inbred line populations segregating for traits of agronomic importance. Pea (Pisum sativum L.) is one of the world's oldest domesticated crops and has been a model system in plant biology and genetics since the work of Gregor Mendel. Pea is the second most widely grown pulse crop in the world following common bean. The importance of pea as a food crop is growing due to its combination of moderate protein concentration, slowly digestible starch, high dietary fiber concentration, and its richness in micronutrients; however, pea has lagged behind other major crops in harnessing recent advances in molecular biology, genomics and bioinformatics, partly due to its large genome size with a large proportion of repetitive sequence, and to the relatively limited investment in research in this crop globally. The objective of this research was the development of a genome-wide transcriptome-based pea single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) marker platform using next-generation sequencing technology. A total of 1,536 polymorphic SNP loci selected from over 20,000 non-redundant SNPs identified using deep transcriptome sequencing of eight diverse Pisum accessions were used for genotyping in five RIL populations using an Illumina GoldenGate assay. The first high-density pea SNP map defining all seven linkage groups was generated by integrating with previously published anchor markers. Syntenic relationships of this map with the model legume Medicago truncatula and lentil (Lens culinaris Medik.) maps were established. The genic SNP map establishes a foundation for future molecular breeding efforts by enabling both the identification and tracking of introgression of genomic regions harbouring QTLs related to agronomic and seed quality traits.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs), recently recognized as important regulator of gene expression at posttranscriptional level, have been found to be involved in plant stress responses. The observation that some miRNAs are up- or down regulated by stress implies that they could play vital roles in plant resistance to abiotic and biotic stress. We investigated the effect of water stress treatment during 10 days on expression of conserved miRNAs-miR398a/b and miR408 in pea plants. This time frame reflects the changes as close as possible to the changes where water stress causes visible effects under field condition. It was observed that dehydration strongly down regulates the expression of both miR398a/b and miR408 in pea roots and shoots. The down-regulation of miR398a/b and the up-regulation of potential target genes - copper superoxide dismutase, CSD1, highlight the involvement of this miRNA in pea stress response. To the contrary, the mRNA level of cytochrome c oxidase subunit 5 (COX5b) did not change in roots and shoots of water-stressed plants, compared to control (well) hydrated plants. This suggests that COX5b is not the target of miR398, or that its expression is regulated by some other mechanism. P1B-ATPase expression increased during water deficit only in the shoots of pea; in the roots there were no changes in expression. Our results help to understand the possible role of investigated miRNAs and their contribution to pea capacity to cope with water deficit.
The exposition of 7-day-old pea seedlings to dehydration induced sudden changes in the concentration of monosaccharides and sucrose in epicotyl and roots tissues. During 24h of dehydration, the concentration of glucose and, to a lesser extent, fructose in seedling tissues decreased. The accumulation of sucrose was observed in roots after 4h and in epicotyls after 8h of stress. Epicotyls and roots also began to accumulate galactinol and raffinose after 8h of stress, when small changes in the water content of tissues occurred. The accumulation of galactinol and raffinose progressed parallel to water withdrawal from tissues, but after seedling rehydration both galactosides disappeared. The synthesis of galactinol and raffinose by an early induction (during the first hour of treatment) of galactinol synthase (PsGolS) and raffinose synthase (PsRS) gene expression as well as a later increase in the activity of both enzymes was noted. Signals possibly triggering the induction of PsGolS and PsRS gene expression and accumulation of galactinol and raffinose in seedlings are discussed.
CRABS CLAW (CRC) is a member of the YABBY family of transcription factors involved in carpel morphogenesis, floral determinacy and nectary specification in arabidopsis. CRC orthologues have been functionally characterized across angiosperms, revealing additional roles in leaf vascular development and carpel identity specification in Poaceae. These studies support an ancestral role of CRC orthologues in carpel development, while roles in vascular development and nectary specification appear to be derived. This study aimed to expand research on CRC functional conservation to the legume family in order to better understand the evolutionary history of CRC orthologues in angiosperms. CRC orthologues from Pisum sativum and Medicago truncatula were identified. RNA in situ hybridization experiments determined the corresponding expression patterns throughout flower development. The phenotypic effects of reduced CRC activity were investigated in P. sativum using virus-induced gene silencing. CRC orthologues from P. sativum and M. truncatula showed similar expression patterns, mainly restricted to carpels and nectaries. However, these expression patterns differed from those of other core eudicots, most importantly in a lack of abaxial expression in the carpel and in atypical expression associated with the medial vein of the ovary. CRC downregulation in pea caused defects in carpel fusion and style/stigma development, both typically associated with CRC function in eudicots, but also affected vascular development in the carpel. The data support the conserved roles of CRC orthologues in carpel fusion, style/stigma development and nectary development. In addition, an intriguing new aspect of CRC function in legumes was the unexpected role in vascular development, which could be shared by other species from widely diverged clades within the angiosperms, suggesting that this role could be ancestral rather than derived, as so far generally accepted.
In Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae, quorum-sensing is regulated by CinR, which induces the cinIS operon. CinI synthesizes an AHL, whereas CinS inactivates PraR, a repressor. Mutation of praR enhanced biofilms in vitro. We developed a light (lux)-dependent assay of rhizobial attachment to roots and demonstrated that mutation of praR increased biofilms on pea roots. The praR mutant out-competed wild-type for infection of pea nodules in mixed inoculations. Analysis of gene expression by microarrays and promoter fusions revealed that PraR represses its own transcription and mutation of praR increased expression of several genes including those encoding secreted proteins (the adhesins RapA2, RapB and RapC, two cadherins and the glycanase PlyB), the polysaccharide regulator RosR, and another protein similar to PraR. PraR bound to the promoters of several of these genes indicating direct repression. Mutations in rapA2, rapB, rapC, plyB, the cadherins or rosR did not affect the enhanced root attachment or nodule competitiveness of the praR mutant. However combinations of mutations in rapA, rapB and rapC abolished the enhanced attachment and nodule competitiveness. We conclude that relief of PraR-mediated repression determines a lifestyle switch allowing the expression of genes that are important for biofilm formation on roots and the subsequent initiation of infection of legume roots.
Understanding of the mechanisms by which pulse grain fractions elicit beneficial effects on glucose tolerance is incomplete. An untargeted metabolomic analysis of serum from insulin-resistant rats was carried out to identify potential metabolic pathways affected by feeding rats the hull fraction of dried peas for 4 weeks. From this, we hypothesized that transcription of hepatic genes involved in lipid metabolism would be altered. cDNA was prepared from total RNA extracted from livers of rats fed a high-fat diet (HFD) or HFD + pea hulls (PH) diet. The liver lipid transcriptome of each cDNA sample was characterized using a PCR-based array of 84 genes. The activity of peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR-α) was measured in hepatocyte nuclei. The predominant findings of the metabolomic analysis revealed a significant increase in the intermediaries of β-oxidation: C16-OH and C16:1 acylcarnitines (>50%, p < 0.05) and 3-hydroxybutyrate (100%, p < 0.05) in the PH group compared with the HFD group. mRNA of hadha, a gene involved in β-oxidation, was significantly reduced by 53% (p < 0.005) in the PH group compared with the HFD group, but no differences in PPAR-α activity were detected. 3-Hydroxybutyrate concentrations were associated with insulin sensitivity and reduced demand for insulin. The results indicate that feeding PH alters lipid metabolism in liver, which may contribute to improved glucose tolerance in insulin-resistant rats.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is considered as one of the most aggressive cancer worldwide. In Egypt, the prevalence of HCC is increasing during last years. Recently, drug-loaded microparticles were used to improve the efficiency of various medical treatments. This study is designed to evaluate the anticancer potentialities of lectins against HCC while hinting to its safety usage. The aim is also extended to encapsulate lectins in alginate microbeads for oral drug delivery purposes. The extracted lectins showed anti-proliferative effect against HCC with a percentage of 60.76% by using its nontoxic dose with an up-regulation of P53 gene expression. Concerning the handling of lectin alginate microbeads for oral drug delivery, the prepared lectin alginate beads were ∼100μm in diameter. The efficiency of the microcapsules was checked by scanning electron microscopy, the SEM showed the change on the alginate beads surface revealing the successful lectin encapsulation. The release of lectins from the microbeads depended on a variety of factors as the microbeads forming carriers and the amount-encapsulated lectins. The Pisum sativum extracted lectins may be considered as a promising agent in controlling HCC and this solid dosage form could be suitable for oral administration complemented with/or without the standard HCC drugs.
Pea (Pisum sativum) cell wall metabolism in response to chilling was investigated in a frost-sensitive genotype 'Terese' and a frost-tolerant genotype 'Champagne'. Cell walls isolated from stipules of cold acclimated and non-acclimated plants showed that cold temperatures induce changes in polymers containing xylose, arabinose, galactose and galacturonic acid residues. In the tolerant cultivar Champagne, acclimation is accompanied by increases in homogalacturonan, xylogalacturonan and highly branched Rhamnogalacturonan I with branched and unbranched (1→5)-α-arabinans and (1→4)-β-galactans. In contrast, the sensitive cultivar Terese accumulates substantial amounts of (1→4)-β-xylans and glucuronoxylan, but not the pectins. Greater JIM7 labeling was observed in Champagne compared to Terese, indicating that cold acclimation also induces an increase in the degree of methylesterification of pectins. Significant decrease in polygalacturonase activities in both genotypes were observed at the end of cold acclimation. These data indicate a role for esterified pectins in cold tolerance. The possible functions for pectins and their associated arabinans and galactans in cold acclimation are discussed.
Plant cells respond to stress conditions, such as high temperatures, by synthesizing small heat shock proteins (sHSPs). sHSPs are molecular chaperones that assist in protein folding and prevent irreversible protein aggregation. Although many sHSP genes are temperature-inducible, other variables, such as altered gravity, can induce significant changes in plant cell gene expression. Furthermore, not all subfamilies of sHSP genes share the same expression pattern. The objective of our research was to determine the effect of simulated microgravity (clinorotation) on the expression of sHSP gene subfamilies with different subcellular locations in etiolated pea (Pisum sativum) seedlings. sHSP gene expression levels were examined using quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qPCR). qPCR results demonstrated that sHSP genes were constitutively expressed in seedlings. High temperatures increased the expression of sHSP genes by several thousand-fold. However, simulated microgravity did not have any significant effects on sHSP gene expression.
We characterised an A-type cyclin SlCycA3 (AJ243453) from tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.). Phylogenetic analysis based on the deduced amino acid sequence revealed that SlCycA3 was 71% identical to A3-type cyclin in Nicotiana tabacum L. (CAA63540), 48% identical to its homologue found in Arabidopsis thaliana (NP_199122), and 48% identical to its homologue in Pisum sativum L. (CAB77269). SlCycA3 gene was transformed into Arabidopsis plants in order to study its function. The hypocotyl length of transgenic plants was approximately half the length of wild-type plants, and the cell size in the transgenic lines was also smaller. The transgenic plants had longer roots than the wild type. Overexpression of SlCycA3 gene accelerated the cell cycle from G1/S transition to early M-phase, thereby accelerating the cell division. When the plants were treated with IAA and 3-indolebutyric acid (IBA) for 2 days, the transgenic plants produced more lateral roots than wild type. Treatment with IBA significantly increased the cell number in the G2-phase in transgenic plants compared with wild type after treatment for 10 days, whereas the proportion of cells in the S-phase was strongly increased by IAA treatment both in wild-type and transgenic plants. These results suggest a possible key role for cyclin in regulating root growth and development and provide some evidence of cell division underlying hormone treatment in plants.
Drought is considered the more harmful abiotic stress resulting in crops yield loss. Legumes in symbiosis with rhizobia are able to fix atmospheric nitrogen. Biological nitrogen fixation (SNF) is a very sensitive process to drought and limits legumes agricultural productivity. Several factors are known to regulate SNF including oxygen availability to bacteroids, carbon and nitrogen metabolisms; but the signaling pathways leading to SNF inhibition are largely unknown. In this work, we have performed a proteomic approach of pea plants grown in split-root system where one half of the root was well-irrigated and the other was subjected to drought. Water stress locally provoked nodule water potential decrease that led to SNF local inhibition. The proteomic approach revealed 11 and 7 nodule proteins regulated by drought encoded by Pisum sativum and Rhizobium leguminosarum genomes respectively. Among these 18 proteins, 3 proteins related to flavonoid metabolism, 2 to sulfur metabolism and 3 RNA-binding proteins were identified. These proteins could be molecular targets for future studies focused on the improvement of legumes tolerance to drought. Moreover, this work also provides new hints for the deciphering of SNF regulation machinery in nodules.
The effect of malate on the steady-state activity of the pea (Pisum sativum L.) and barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) leaf pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) has been studied in isolated mitochondria. The addition of malate was found to be stimulatory for the mitochondrial PDC, however there was no stimulation of chloroplast PDC. The stimulation was saturated below 1mM malate and was apparently related to а partially activated complex, which activity increased in the presence of malate by about twofold. Malate also reversed the reduction of PDC activity in the presence of glycine. Based on the obtained kinetic data, we suggest that the effect of malate is rather not a direct activation of PDC but involves the establishment of NAD-malate dehydrogenase equilibrium, decreasing concentration of NADH and relieving its inhibitory effect of PDC.
The guanosine 3',5'-bisdiphosphate (ppGpp) signaling system is shared by bacteria and plant chloroplasts, but its role in plants has remained unclear. Here we show that guanylate kinase (GK), a key enzyme in guanine nucleotide biosynthesis that catalyzes the conversion of GMP to GDP, is a target of regulation by ppGpp in chloroplasts of rice, pea, and Arabidopsis. Plants have two distinct types of GK that are localized to organelles (GKpm) or to the cytosol (GKc), with both enzymes being essential for growth and development. We found that the activity of rice GKpm in vitro was inhibited by ppGpp with a Ki of 2.8 μM relative to the substrate GMP, whereas the Km of this enzyme for GMP was 73 μM. The IC50 of ppGpp for GKpm was ∼10 μM. In contrast, the activity of rice GKc was insensitive to ppGpp, as was that of GK from bakers' yeast, which is also a cytosolic enzyme. These observations suggest that ppGpp plays a pivotal role in the regulation of GTP biosynthesis in chloroplasts through specific inhibition of GKpm activity, with the regulation of GTP biosynthesis in chloroplasts thus being independent of that in the cytosol. We also found that GKs of Escherichia coli and Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 are insensitive to ppGpp, in contrast to the ppGpp sensitivity of the Bacillus subtilis enzyme. Our biochemical characterization of GK enzymes has thus revealed a novel target of ppGpp in chloroplasts and has uncovered diversity among bacterial GKs with regard to regulation by ppGpp.
Given recent advances in pulse molecular biology, genomics-driven breeding has emerged as a promising approach to address the issues of limited genetic gain and low productivity in various pulse crops. The global population is continuously increasing and is expected to reach nine billion by 2050. This huge population pressure will lead to severe shortage of food, natural resources and arable land. Such an alarming situation is most likely to arise in developing countries due to increase in the proportion of people suffering from protein and micronutrient malnutrition. Pulses being a primary and affordable source of proteins and minerals play a key role in alleviating the protein calorie malnutrition, micronutrient deficiencies and other undernourishment-related issues. Additionally, pulses are a vital source of livelihood generation for millions of resource-poor farmers practising agriculture in the semi-arid and sub-tropical regions. Limited success achieved through conventional breeding so far in most of the pulse crops will not be enough to feed the ever increasing population. In this context, genomics-assisted breeding (GAB) holds promise in enhancing the genetic gains. Though pulses have long been considered as orphan crops, recent advances in the area of pulse genomics are noteworthy, e.g. discovery of genome-wide genetic markers, high-throughput genotyping and sequencing platforms, high-density genetic linkage/QTL maps and, more importantly, the availability of whole-genome sequence. With genome sequence in hand, there is a great scope to apply genome-wide methods for trait mapping using association studies and to choose desirable genotypes via genomic selection. It is anticipated that GAB will speed up the progress of genetic improvement of pulses, leading to the rapid development of cultivars with higher yield, enhanced stress tolerance and wider adaptability.
The STERILE NODES (SN) locus in pea (Pisum sativum) was one of the first photoperiod response genes to be described and provided early evidence for the genetic control of long-distance signaling in flowering-time regulation. Lines homozygous for recessive sn mutations are early flowering and photoperiod insensitive, with an increased ability to promote flowering across a graft union in short-day conditions. Here, we show that SN controls developmental regulation of genes in the FT family and rhythmic regulation of genes related to circadian clock function. Using a positional and functional candidate approach, we identify SN as the pea ortholog of LUX ARRHYTHMO, a GARP transcription factor from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) with an important role in circadian clock function. In addition to induced mutants, sequence analysis demonstrates the presence of at least three other independent, naturally occurring loss-of-function mutations among known sn cultivars. Examination of genetic and regulatory interactions between SN and two other circadian clock genes, HIGH RESPONSE TO PHOTOPERIOD (HR) and DIE NEUTRALIS (DNE), suggests a complex relationship in which HR regulates expression of SN and the role of DNE and HR in control of flowering is dependent on SN. These results extend previous work to show that pea orthologs of all three Arabidopsis evening complex genes regulate clock function and photoperiod-responsive flowering and suggest that the function of these genes may be widely conserved.
Elevated CO(2) compromises the resistance of leguminous plants against chewing insects, but little is known about whether elevated CO(2) modifies the resistance against phloem-sucking insects or whether it has contrasting effects on the resistance of legumes that differ in biological nitrogen fixation. We tested the hypothesis that the physical and chemical resistance against aphids would be increased in Jemalong (a wild type of Medicago truncatula) but would be decreased in dnf1 (a mutant without biological nitrogen fixation) by elevated CO(2). The non-glandular and glandular trichome density of Jemalong plants increased under elevated CO(2), resulting in prolonged aphid probing. In contrast, dnf1 plants tended to decrease foliar trichome density under elevated CO(2), resulting in less surface and epidermal resistance to aphids. Elevated CO(2) enhanced the ineffective salicylic acid-dependent defence pathway but decreased the effective jasmonic acid/ethylene-dependent defence pathway in aphid-infested Jemalong plants. Therefore, aphid probing time decreased and the duration of phloem sap ingestion increased on Jemalong under elevated CO(2), which, in turn, increased aphid growth rate. Overall, our results suggest that elevated CO(2) decreases the chemical resistance of wild-type M. truncatula against aphids, and that the host's biological nitrogen fixation ability is central to this effect.
Forisomes are specialized structural phloem proteins that mediate sieve element occlusion after wounding exclusively in papilionoid legumes, but most studies of forisome structure and function have focused on the Old World clade rather than the early lineages. A comprehensive phylogenetic, molecular, structural and functional analysis of forisomes from species covering a broad spectrum of the papilionoid legumes was therefore carried out, including the first analysis of Dipteryx panamensis forisomes, representing the earliest branch of the Papilionoideae lineage. The aim was to study the molecular, structural and functional conservation among forisomes from different tribes and to establish the roles of individual forisome subunits. Sequence analysis and bioinformatics were combined with structural and functional analysis of native forisomes and artificial forisome-like protein bodies, the latter produced by expressing forisome genes from different legumes in a heterologous background. The structure of these bodies was analysed using a combination of confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and the function of individual subunits was examined by combinatorial expression, micromanipulation and light microscopy. Dipteryx panamensis native forisomes and homomeric protein bodies assembled from the single sieve element occlusion by forisome (SEO-F) subunit identified in this species were structurally and functionally similar to forisomes from the Old World clade. In contrast, homomeric protein bodies assembled from individual SEO-F subunits from Old World species yielded artificial forisomes differing in proportion to their native counterparts, suggesting that multiple SEO-F proteins are required for forisome assembly in these plants. Structural differences between Medicago truncatula native forisomes, homomeric protein bodies and heteromeric bodies containing all possible subunit combinations suggested that combinations of SEO-F proteins may fine-tune the geometric proportions and reactivity of forisomes. It is concluded that forisome structure and function have been strongly conserved during evolution and that species-dependent subsets of SEO-F proteins may have evolved to fine-tune the structure of native forisomes.
The presence of the single metals (Cd, Pb, Cu, Zn) induces ROS (reactive oxygen species) production and causes oxidative stress in plants. While applied in two-element combinations, trace metals impact organisms in a more complex way. To assess the resultant effect we treated the pea grown hydroponically with the trace metals in variants: CuPb, CuCd, CuZn, PbCd, ZnPb, ZnCd in concentrations of 25 µM for each metal ion. Abiotic stress inhibited root elongation growth, decreased biomass production, induced changes in root colour and morphology. It changed rate of ROS production, malondialdehyde content, increased activity and altered gene expression of defence enzymes (superoxide dysmutase, catalase, ascorbate peroxidase, glutathione reductase, γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase).
This study demonstrates the sequence of enhanced generation of signal molecules such as phytohormones, i.e. jasmonic acid (JA), ethylene (ET), salicylic acid (SA), and a relatively stable free radical, nitric oxide (NO), in response of Pisum sativum L. cv. Cysterski seedling leaves to the infestation of pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris) at a varied population size. In time from 0 to 96h after A. pisum infestation these signal molecules accumulated transiently. Moreover, the convergence of these signaling pathways occurred. JA and its methyl derivative MeJA reached the first maximum of generation at 24th hour of infestation. An increase in ET and NO generation was observed at 48th hour of infestation. The increase in SA, JA/MeJA and ET concentrations in aphid-infested leaves occurred from the 72nd to 96th hour. In parallel, an increase was demonstrated for the activities of enzymes engaged in the biosynthesis of SA, such as phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and benzoic acid 2-hydroxylase (BA2H). Additionally, a considerable post-infestation accumulation of transcripts for PAL was observed. An increase in the activity of lipoxygenase (LOX), an important enzyme in the biosynthesis of JA was noted. This complex signaling network may contribute to the coordinated regulation of gene expression leading to specific defence responses.
Leaf form and development are controlled genetically. The ARP genes encode MYB transcription factors that interact with Class 1 KNOX genes in a regulatory module that controls meristem-leaf determinations and is highly conserved in plants. ARP loss of function alleles and subsequent KNOX1 overexpression cause many unusual leaf phenotypes including loss or partial loss of the ability to produce a lamina and production of "knots" on leaf blades. CRISPA (CRI) is the ARP gene in pea, and a number of its mutant alleles are known. We made morphological and anatomical evaluations of cri-1 mutant plants while controlling for genetic background and for heteroblastic effects, and we used aldehyde fixation and resin preparations for anatomical analysis. Further, we compared gene expression in WT and cri-1 shoot tips and HOP1/PsKN1 and CRI expression in other leaf mutants. The cri-1 plants had more extensive abnormalities in the proximal than in the distal regions of the leaf, including ectopic stipules, narrow leaflets, and shortened petioles with excessive adaxial expansion. "Knots" were morphologically and anatomically variable but consisted of vascularized out-pocketing of the adaxial leaflet surface. HOP1/PsKN1 and UNI mRNA levels were higher in cri-1 shoot tips, and some auxin-regulated genes were lower. Low LE expression suggests that the GA level is high in cri-1 shoot tips. The CRISPA gene of pea suppresses KNOX1 genes and UNI and functions to (1) maintain proximal-distal regions in their appropriate positions, (2) restrict excessive adaxial cell proliferation, and (3) promote laminar expansion.
GTPases are molecular switches that control numerous crucial cellular processes. Unlike bona fide GTPases, which are regulated by intramolecular structural transitions, the less well studied GAD-GTPases are activated by nucleotide-dependent dimerization. A member of this family is the translocase of the outer envelope membrane of chloroplast Toc34 involved in regulation of preprotein import. The GTPase cycle of Toc34 is considered a major circuit of translocation regulation. Contrary to expectations, previous studies yielded only marginal structural changes of dimeric Toc34 in response to different nucleotide loads. Referencing PELDOR and FRET single-molecule and bulk experiments, we describe a nucleotide-dependent transition of the dimer flexibility from a tight GDP- to a flexible GTP-loaded state. Substrate binding induces an opening of the GDP-loaded dimer. Thus, the structural dynamics of bona fide GTPases induced by GTP hydrolysis is replaced by substrate-dependent dimer flexibility, which likely represents a general regulatory mode for dimerizing GTPases.
The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of long-term intake of pea fiber (PF) on colonic health and the underlying mechanism. Fifty weaned piglets were randomly allocated into 2 groups receiving control and fibrous diet with inclusion of PF from weaning to Day 160 postweaning, with 5 pens in each group and 5 pigs in each pen. Compared with control diet, long-term intake of PF diet induced deeper crypt and increased colonic barrier-related protein expression of mucin and sIgA. As indicated by the increased lactobacillus content, pigs fed PF diet had a stimulating effect on bacterial fermentation in the colon, thus a higher concentration of colonic total short chain fatty acid and acetic acid were observed. DNA microarray results suggested that feeding PF diet inhibited 77% of genes (40 downregulated and 12 upregulated genes) related to colonic cancer, immune response, and lipid metabolism, involving in signal pathway such as intestinal immune network for IgA production, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor signaling pathway and nutrient metabolism-related pathways. Collectively, our results suggested that long-term intake of PF would improve colonic function via altering colonic barriers, colonic immune and metabolism-related protein or gene expressions.
The herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) causes uncontrolled cell division and malformed growth in plants, giving rise to leaf epinasty and stem curvature. In this study, mechanisms involved in the regulation of leaf epinasty induced by 2,4-D were studied using different chemicals involved in reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation (diphenyleniodonium, butylated hydroxyanisole, EDTA, allopurinol), calcium channels (LaCl3), protein phosphorylation (cantharidin, wortmannin) and ethylene emission/perception (aminoethoxyvinyl glycine, AgNO3). The effect of these compounds on the epinasty induced by 2,4-D was analysed in shoots and leaf strips from pea plants. For further insight into the effect of 2,4-D, studies were also made in Arabidopsis mutants deficient in ROS production (rbohD, rbohF, xdh), ethylene (ein 3-1, ctr 1-1, etr 1-1), abscisic acid (aba 3.1), and jasmonic acid (coi 1.1, jar 1.1, opr 3) pathways. The results suggest that ROS production, mainly ·OH, is essential in the development of epinasty triggered by 2,4-D. Epinasty was also found to be regulated by Ca2+, protein phosphorylation and ethylene, although all these factors act downstream of ROS production. The use of Arabidopsis mutants appears to indicate that abscisic and jasmonic acid are not involved in regulating epinasty, although they could be involved in other symptoms induced by 2,4-D.
Chickpea is the world's third most important legume crop and belongs to Fabaceae family but suffered from severe yield loss due to various biotic and abiotic stresses. Development of modern genomic tools such as molecular markers and identification of resistant genes associated with these stresses facilitate improvement in chickpea breeding towards abiotic stress tolerance. In this study, 1597 high-quality expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were generated from a cDNA library of variety Pusa 1105 root tissue after cadmium (Cd) treatment. Assembly of ESTs resulted in a total of 914 unigenes of which putative homology was obtained for 38.8 % of unigenes after BLASTX search. In terms of species distribution, majority of sequences found similarity with Medicago truncatula followed by Glycine max, Vitis vinifera and Populus trichocarpa and Pisum sativum sequences. Functional annotation was assigned using Blast2Go, and the Gene Ontology (GO) terms were categorized into biological process, molecular function and cellular component. Approximately 10.83 % of unigenes were assigned at least one GO term. Moreover, in the distribution of transcripts into various biological pathways, 20 of the annotated transcripts were assigned to ten pathways in KEGG database. A majority of the genes were found to be involved in sulphur and nitrogen metabolism. In the quantitative real-time PCR analysis, five of the transcription factors and three of the transporter genes were found to be highly expressed after Cd treatment. Besides, the utility of ESTs was demonstrated by exploiting them for the development of 83 genic molecular markers including EST-simple sequence repeats and intron targeted polymorphism that would assist in tagging of genes related to metal stress for future prospects.
Plants are known to secrete chemical compounds that can change the behavior of rhizosphere-inhabiting bacteria. We investigated the effects of extracts from legume host plants on the swarming behavior of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae. We also investigated the effects on swarming when Rhizobium is exposed to extracts from an ancestor to vascular plants, the model bryophyte Physcomitrella patens. Lentil and faba bean seed exudates enhanced and inhibited swarming motility, respectively, whereas pea seed exudates had no observable effect on swarming. Swarming was also enhanced by the moss extracts. Exposure to lentil seed exudates and the moss extract increased flaA expression 2-fold, while faba bean seed exudates exposure decreased expression 3-fold, suggesting that the swarming effect could, in part, be due to regulation of flagellin gene expression. However, the exudates and extracts did not significantly affect flaA gene expression in planktonic motile cells, indicating that the response to flagellar regulation is specific to a physiology unique to the swarming cell. Transmission electron microscopy demonstrated that addition of the lentil seed exudate and the moss extract results in earlier differentiation into swarmer cells, which could contribute to the development of a larger swarming surface area. To gain further mechanistic insight into the effect of the moss extract on swarming, a moss strigolactone-deficient mutant (Ppccd8Δ) was tested. A reduction in the promotive effect was observed, suggesting that the plant hormone strigolactone may be a signalling molecule activating swarming motility in R. leguminosarum.
Proanthocyanidins (PAs) accumulate in the seeds, fruits and leaves of various plant species including the seed coats of pea (Pisum sativum), an important food crop. PAs have been implicated in human health, but molecular and biochemical characterization of pea PA biosynthesis has not been established to date, and detailed pea PA chemical composition has not been extensively studied. PAs were localized to the ground parenchyma and epidermal cells of pea seed coats. Chemical analyses of PAs from seeds of three pea cultivars demonstrated cultivar variation in PA composition. 'Courier' and 'Solido' PAs were primarily prodelphinidin-types, whereas the PAs from 'LAN3017' were mainly the procyanidin-type. The mean degree of polymerization of 'LAN3017' PAs was also higher than those from 'Courier' and 'Solido'. Next-generation sequencing of 'Courier' seed coat cDNA produced a seed coat-specific transcriptome. Three cDNAs encoding anthocyanidin reductase (PsANR), leucoanthocyanidin reductase (PsLAR), and dihydroflavonol reductase (PsDFR) were isolated. PsANR and PsLAR transcripts were most abundant earlier in seed coat development. This was followed by maximum PA accumulation in the seed coat. Recombinant PsANR enzyme efficiently synthesized all three cis-flavan-3-ols (gallocatechin, catechin, and afzalechin) with satisfactory kinetic properties. The synthesis rate of trans-flavan-3-ol by co-incubation of PsLAR and PsDFR was comparable to cis-flavan-3-ol synthesis rate by PsANR. Despite the competent PsLAR activity in vitro, expression of PsLAR driven by the Arabidopsis ANR promoter in wild-type and anr knock-out Arabidopsis backgrounds did not result in PA synthesis. Significant variation in seed coat PA composition was found within the pea cultivars, making pea an ideal system to explore PA biosynthesis. PsANR and PsLAR transcript profiles, PA localization, and PA accumulation patterns suggest that a pool of PA subunits are produced in specific seed coat cells early in development to be used as substrates for polymerization into PAs. Biochemically competent recombinant PsANR and PsLAR activities were consistent with the pea seed coat PA profile composed of both cis- and trans-flavan-3-ols. Since the expression of PsLAR in Arabidopsis did not alter the PA subunit profile (which is only comprised of cis-flavan-3-ols), it necessitates further investigation of in planta metabolic flux through PsLAR.
The PA1b (Pea Albumin 1, subunit b) peptide is an entomotoxin extract from Legume seeds with lethal activity on several insect pests, such as mosquitoes, some aphids and cereal weevils. This 37 amino-acid cysteine-rich peptide has been, until now, obtained by biochemical purification or chemical synthesis. In this paper, we present our results for the transient production of the peptide in Nicotiana benthamiana by agro-infiltration, with a yield of about 35 µg/g of fresh leaves and maximum production 8 days after infiltration. PA1b is part of the PA1 gene which, after post-translational modifications, encodes two peptides (PA1b and PA1a). We show that transforming tobacco with the PA1b cDNA alone does not result in production of the toxin and, in fact, the entire cDNA is necessary, raising the question of the role of PA1a. We constructed a PA1-cassette, allowing for the quick "cut/paste" of different PA1b mutants within a conserved PA1 cDNA. This cassette enabled us to produce the six isoforms of PA1b which exist in pea seeds. Biological tests revealed that all the isoforms display similar activity, with the exception of one which is inactive. The lack of activity in this isoform led us to conclude that the amphiphilic nature of the peptide is necessary for activity. The possible applications of this expression system for other cysteine-rich biomolecules are discussed.
pea-MADS4 (PEAM4) regulates floral morphology in Pisum sativum L., however, its molecular mechanisms still remain unclear. Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is a recently developed reverse genetic approach that facilities an easier and more rapid study of gene functions. In this study, the PEAM4 gene was effectively silenced by VIGS using a pea early browning virus (PEBV) in wild type pea JI992. The infected plants showed abnormal phenotypes, as the floral organs, especially the sepals and petals changed in both size and shape, which made the corolla less closed. The petals changed in morphology and internal symmetry with, the stamens reduced and carpel dehisced. Larger sepals and longer tendrils with small cauline leaves appeared, with some sepals turning into bracts, and secondary inflorescences with fused floral organs were formed, indicating a flower-to-inflorescence change. The infected plants also displayed a delayed and prolonged flowering time. The PEAM4-VIGS plants with altered floral morphology were similar to the pim (proliferating inflorescence meristem) mutant and also mimicked the phenotypes of ap1 mutants in Arabidopsis. The expression pattern of the homologous genes PsSOC1a and PsSVP, which were involved in flowering time and florescence morphological control downstream of PEAM4, were analyzed by real-time RT-PCR and mRNA in situ hybridization. PsSOC1a and PsSVP were ectopically expressed and enhanced in the floral meristems from PEAM4-silenced plants. Our data suggests that PEAM4 may have a similar molecular mechanism as AtAP1, which inhibits the expression of PsSOC1a and PsSVP in the floral meristem from the early stages of flower development. As such, in this way PEAM4 plays a crucial role in maintaining floral organ identity and flower development in pea.
The present work was aimed to find novel probiotics to enhance the mucosal barrier function of humans. The effectiveness was evaluated in vitro and in vivo. Stimulation of IgA production in mucosal surfaces is one of the most beneficial traits of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) for enhancing the barrier. Therefore, 173 LAB strains were evaluated for the ability to induce IgA production using murine Peyer's patch cells. Strain NTM048 isolated from green peas showed the highest activity and was identified as Leuconostoc mesenteroides subsp. mesenteroides. This strain was found to tolerate gastrointestinal digestion and produce large amounts of exopolysaccharides, which possess IgA-inducing activity. Dietary supplementation with NTM048 induced a significant increase in the faecal IgA content and plasma IgA levels of BALB/cA mice. A gene expression analysis of Peyer's patch cells revealed that the transforming growth factor-β and activation-induced cytidine deaminase genes were upregulated by NTM048 intake. Strain NTM048 stimulates Peyer's patch cells to induce intestinal and systemic immune response, revealing the potential of NTM048 as a probiotic for enhancing the mucosal barrier function. This report demonstrates a food-applicable Leuconostoc mesenteroides strain secreting exopolysaccharide that shows high IgA-inducing ability.
Accurate import of thousands of nuclear-encoded proteins is an important step in plastid biogenesis. However, the import machinery of cytosolic precursor proteins to plastids relies on the Toc and Tic (translocons on the outer envelope and inner envelope membrane of chloroplasts) complexes. Toc159 protein was identified in pea (Pisum sativum) as a major receptor for the precursor proteins. In Arabidopsis thaliana, four psToc159 homologs are identified, termed atToc159, atToc132, atToc120 and atToc90. The expression of these protein-encoding genes has to be properly regulated, because their gene products must be correctly integrated to appropriate apparatus to perform their functions. In order to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms of atTOC159 homologous gene expression, transgenes containing various lengths of the upstream regulatory sequences of atTOC159/atTOC132/atTOC120/atTOC90 and GUS coding sequence were transferred to wild type Arabidopsis. In accordance with the analysis of GUS activity in these transgenic plants at various developmental stages, these homologous genes had distinct expression patterns. AtTOC159 and atTOC90 are preferentially expressed in above-ground tissues, such as cotyledons and leaves. In mature roots, atTOC159 and atTOC132 are expressed at higher levels, while atTOC120 and atTOC90 are expressed at the basal level. All four genes have increased expression level during flower and fruit development, particularly a remarkably high expression level of atTOC159 in later stage of fruit development. Furthermore, leader intron in the 5' UTR induces the expression level of atTOC159 members in a tissue-specific manner. This is able to up-regulate the atTOC120 expression in roots/leaves/flowers, and the atTOC90 expression in cotyledons/leaves/anthers. The differential expression of atTOC159 gene members is essential during plastid development, because proper atToc159 isoforms are required to import distinct proteins to the plastids of different tissues.
Glutathione peroxidases (GPXs) are a group of enzymes that protect cells against oxidative damage generated by reactive oxygen species (ROS). GPX catalyzes the reduction of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) or organic hydroperoxides to water or alcohols by reduced glutathione. The presence of GPXs in plants has been reported by several groups, but the roles of individual members of this family in a single plant species have not been studied. Two GPX cDNAs were isolated and characterized from the embryogenic callus of Panax ginseng. The two cDNAs had an open reading frame (ORF) of 723 and 681bp with a deduced amino acid sequence of 240 and 226 residues, respectively. The calculated molecular mass of the matured proteins are approximately 26.4kDa or 25.7kDa with a predicated isoelectric point of 9.16 or 6.11, respectively. The two PgGPXs were elevated strongly by salt stress and chilling stress in a ginseng seedling. In addition, the two PgGPXs showed different responses against biotic stress. The positive responses of PgGPX to the environmental stimuli suggested that ginseng GPX may help to protect against environmental stresses.
Strigolactones (SLs) are known not only as plant hormones, but also as rhizosphere signals for establishing symbiotic and parasitic interactions. The design of new specific SL analogs is a challenging goal in understanding the basic plant biology and is also useful to control plant architectures without favoring the development of parasitic plants. Two different molecules (23 (3'-methyl-GR24), 31 (thia-3'-methyl-debranone-like molecule)) already described, and a new one (AR36), for which the synthesis is presented, are biologically compared with the well-known GR24 and the recently identified CISA-1. These different structures emphasize the wide range of parts attached to the D-ring for the bioactivity as a plant hormone. These new compounds possess a common dimethylbutenolide motif but their structure varies in the ABC part of the molecules: 23 has the same ABC part as GR24, while 31 and AR36 carry, respectively, an aromatic ring and an acyclic carbon chain. Detailed information is given for the bioactivity of such derivatives in strigolactone synthesis or in perception mutant plants (pea rms1 and rms4, Arabidopsis max2 and, max4) for different hormonal functions along with their action in the rhizosphere on arbuscular mycorrhizal hyphal growth and parasitic weed germination.
Understanding of seed ageing, which leads to viability loss during storage, is vital for ex situ plant conservation and agriculture alike. Yet the potential for regulation at the transcriptional level has not been fully investigated. Here, we studied the relationship between seed viability, gene expression and glutathione redox status during artificial ageing of pea (Pisum sativum) seeds. Transcriptome-wide analysis using microarrays was complemented with qRT-PCR analysis of selected genes and a multilevel analysis of the antioxidant glutathione. Partial degradation of DNA and RNA occurred from the onset of artificial ageing at 60% RH and 50°C, and transcriptome profiling showed that the expression of genes associated with programmed cell death, oxidative stress and protein ubiquitination were altered prior to any sign of viability loss. After 25 days of ageing viability started to decline in conjunction with progressively oxidising cellular conditions, as indicated by a shift of the glutathione redox state towards more positive values (>-190 mV). The unravelling of the molecular basis of seed ageing revealed that transcriptome reprogramming is a key component of the ageing process, which influences the progression of programmed cell death and decline in antioxidant capacity that ultimately lead to seed viability loss.
Plant pathogens including fungi and bacteria cause many of the most serious crop diseases. The plant innate immune response is triggered upon recognition of microbe-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs) such as flagellin22 and peptidoglycan. To date, very little is known of MAMP-mediated responses in roots. Root border cells are cells that originate from root caps and are released individually into the rhizosphere. Root tips of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and flax (Linum usitatissimum) release cells known as "border-like cells." Whereas root border cells of pea (Pisum sativum) are clearly involved in defense against fungal pathogens, the function of border-like cells remains to be established. In this study, we have investigated the responses of root border-like cells of Arabidopsis and flax to flagellin22 and peptidoglycan. We found that both MAMPs triggered a rapid oxidative burst in root border-like cells of both species. The production of reactive oxygen species was accompanied by modifications in the cell wall distribution of extensin epitopes. Extensins are hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins that can be cross linked by hydrogen peroxide to enhance the mechanical strength of the cell wall. In addition, both MAMPs also caused deposition of callose, a well-known marker of MAMP-elicited defense. Furthermore, flagellin22 induced the overexpression of genes involved in the plant immune response in root border-like cells of Arabidopsis. Our findings demonstrate that root border-like cells of flax and Arabidopsis are able to perceive an elicitation and activate defense responses. We also show that cell wall extensin is involved in the innate immunity response of root border-like cells.
Understanding of developmental processes relies heavily on isolation and functional characterization of relevant genes. The garden pea (Pisum sativum L.) is one of the classic model species in plant genetics and has been used for a wide range of physiological and molecular studies of plant development. Here we describe the resources and approaches available for isolation of genes and genetic characterization of loci affecting development in pea.
Plants have evolved a complex array of defensive responses against pathogenic microorganisms. Recognition of microbes initiates signaling cascades that activate plant defenses. The membrane lipid phosphatidic acid, produced by phospholipase D (PLD), has been shown to take part in both abiotic and biotic stress signaling. In this study, the involvement of PLD in the interaction between Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and the barley powdery mildew fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh) was investigated. This nonadapted pathogen is normally resisted by a cell wall-based defense, which stops the fungal hyphae from penetrating the epidermal cell wall. Chemical inhibition of phosphatidic acid production by PLD increased the penetration rate of Bgh spores on wild-type leaves. The analysis of transfer DNA knockout lines for all Arabidopsis PLD genes revealed that PLDδ is involved in penetration resistance against Bgh, and chemical inhibition of PLDs in plants mutated in PLDδ indicated that this isoform alone is involved in Bgh resistance. In addition, we confirmed the involvement of PLDδ in penetration resistance against another nonadapted pea powdery mildew fungus, Erysiphe pisi. A green fluorescent protein fusion of PLDδ localized to the plasma membrane at the Bgh attack site, where it surrounded the cell wall reinforcement. Furthermore, in the pldδ mutant, transcriptional up-regulation of early microbe-associated molecular pattern response genes was delayed after chitin stimulation. In conclusion, we propose that PLD is involved in defense signaling in nonhost resistance against powdery mildew fungi and put PLDδ forward as the main isoform participating in this process.
Gibberellins (GAs) are key modulators of plant growth and development. PsGA3ox1 (LE) encodes a GA 3β-hydroxylase that catalyzes the conversion of GA20 to biologically active GA1. To further clarify the role of GA3ox expression during pea (Pisum sativum) plant growth and development, we generated transgenic pea lines (in a lele background) with cauliflower mosaic virus-35S-driven expression of PsGA3ox1 (LE). PsGA3ox1 transgene expression led to higher GA1 concentrations in a tissue-specific and development-specific manner, altering GA biosynthesis and catabolism gene expression and plant phenotype. PsGA3ox1 transgenic plants had longer internodes, tendrils, and fruits, larger stipules, and displayed delayed flowering, increased apical meristem life, and altered vascular development relative to the null controls. Transgenic PsGA3ox1 overexpression lines were then compared with lines where endogenous PsGA3ox1 (LE) was introduced, by a series of backcrosses, into the same genetic background (BC LEle). Most notably, the BC LEle plants had substantially longer internodes containing much greater GA1 levels than the transgenic PsGA3ox1 plants. Induction of expression of the GA deactivation gene PsGA2ox1 appears to make an important contribution to limiting the increase of internode GA1 to modest levels for the transgenic lines. In contrast, PsGA3ox1 (LE) expression driven by its endogenous promoter was coordinated within the internode tissue to avoid feed-forward regulation of PsGA2ox1, resulting in much greater GA1 accumulation. These studies further our fundamental understanding of the regulation of GA biosynthesis and catabolism at the tissue and organ level and demonstrate that the timing/localization of GA3ox expression within an organ affects both GA homeostasis and GA1 levels, and thereby growth.
A gene encoding a homolog to the cation diffusion facilitator protein DmeF from Cupriavidus metallidurans has been identified in the genome of Rhizobium leguminosarum UPM791. The R. leguminosarum dmeF gene is located downstream of an open reading frame (designated dmeR) encoding a protein homologous to the nickel- and cobalt-responsive transcriptional regulator RcnR from Escherichia coli. Analysis of gene expression showed that the R. leguminosarum dmeRF genes are organized as a transcriptional unit whose expression is strongly induced by nickel and cobalt ions, likely by alleviating the repressor activity of DmeR on dmeRF transcription. An R. leguminosarum dmeRF mutant strain displayed increased sensitivity to Co(II) and Ni(II), whereas no alterations of its resistance to Cd(II), Cu(II), or Zn(II) were observed. A decrease of symbiotic performance was observed when pea plants inoculated with an R. leguminosarum dmeRF deletion mutant strain were grown in the presence of high concentrations of nickel and cobalt. The same mutant induced significantly lower activity levels of NiFe hydrogenase in microaerobic cultures. These results indicate that the R. leguminosarum DmeRF system is a metal-responsive efflux mechanism acting as a key element for metal homeostasis in R. leguminosarum under free-living and symbiotic conditions. The presence of similar dmeRF gene clusters in other Rhizobiaceae suggests that the dmeRF system is a conserved mechanism for metal tolerance in legume endosymbiotic bacteria.
Microalgae possess numerous cellular mechanisms specifically employed for acclimating the photosynthetic pathways to changes in the physical environment. Despite the importance of coral-dinoflagellate symbioses, little focus has been given as to how the symbiotic algae (Symbiodinium spp.) regulate the expression of their photosynthetic genes. This study used real-time PCR to investigate the transcript abundance of the plastid-encoded genes, psbA (encoding the D1 protein of photosystem II) and psaA (encoding the P700 protein in photosystem I), within the cultured Symbiodinium ITS-2 (internal transcribed spacer region) types A20 and A13. Transcript abundance was monitored during a low to high-light shift, as well as over a full diel light cycle. In addition, psaA was characterized in three isolates (A20, A13, and D4-5) and noted as another example of a dinoflagellate plastid gene encoded on a minicircle. In general, the overall incongruence of transcript patterns for both psbA and psaA between the Symbiodinium isolates and other models of transcriptionally controlled chloroplast gene expression (e.g., Pisum sativum [pea], Sinapis alba [mustard seedling], and Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 [cyanobacteria]) suggests that Symbiodinium is reliant on posttranscriptional mechanisms for homeostatic regulation of its photosynthetic proteins.
In the wild type P. sativum, each of the adult plant stem nodes, bears a pair of sessile foliaceous stipules and a petiolated unipinnately compound leaf of 4 to 6 leaflets and 7-9 tendrils. The stipule-reduced (st) and cochleata (coch) single null mutants and coch st double null mutant differ fom the wild type in respectively having sessile stipules of much reduced size, petiolated simple and/or compound leaf-like stipules and no stipules. It is also known that coch leaves are somewhat bigger than st and wild type leaves. Here, pleiotropic phenotype of coch st double mutant was investigated. The morphologies of stipules and leaf were quantified in the field grown plants and microcultured shoots, latter in the presence and absence of gibberellic acid and N-1-naphthylphthalamic acid. The observations showed that as compared to the corresponding plants or shoots of COCH ST (WT) genotype, (a) coch st plants bore leaves in which all the organs were hypertrophied; (b) full complement of leaflets and 3-5 tendrils were formed on leaf; (c) the microcultured coch st shoots were taller despite lower number of nodes, and (d) they also produced leaves in which all the organs were bigger and the ratio of leaflets/tendrils was higher. It was concluded that in coch st double mutant (a) ST function is essential for stipule primordium differentiation, in the absence of COCH function and (b) absence of negative feedback loops between simple stipules and compound leaf for metabolite utilization allows hypertrophied growth in leaves.
Peanut, a major edible oil seed crop globally is predominantly grown under rainfed conditions and suffers yield losses due to drought. Development of drought-tolerant varieties through transgenic technology is a valid approach. Besides superior water relation traits like water mining, intrinsic cellular level tolerance mechanisms are important to sustain the growth under stress. To achieve this objective, the focus of this study was to pyramid drought adaptive traits by overexpressing a stress responsive helicase, PDH45 in the background of a genotype with superior water relations. PCR, Southern, and RT-PCR analyses confirmed stable integration and expression of the PDH45 gene in peanut transgenics. At the end of T₃ generation, eight transgenic events were identified as promising based on stress tolerance and improvement in productivity. Several transgenic lines showed stay-green phenotype and increased chlorophyll stability under stress and reduced chlorophyll retardation under etherel-induced simulated stress conditions. Stress-induced root growth was also substantially higher in the case of transformants. This was reflected in increased WUE (low Δ¹³C) and improved growth rates and productivity. The transgenics showed 17.2 and 26.75 % increase in yield under non-stress and stress conditions over wild type ascertaining the feasibility of trait pyramiding strategy for the development of drought-tolerant peanut.
Aldehyde oxidase (AO; EC 1.2.3.1) catalyzes the final step of abscisic acid (ABA) biosynthesis, which is the oxidation of abscisic aldehyde (ABAld) to ABA. Gene expression analyses indicate that the stress-induced Pisum sativum PsAOγ isoform, which effectively uses ABAld as a substrate, is encoded by the PsAO3 gene. PsAO3 was heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris and the recombinant PsAO3 protein revealed substrate preferences highly similar to the native PsAOγ protein present in the pea leaves and roots. Both proteins prefer indole-3-aldehyde and naphthaldehyde as substrates, although high activities against abscisic aldehyde and citral were also observed. The Km values of PsAO3 for naphthaldehyde and abscisic aldehyde (4.6 and 5.1 μM, respectively) were the lowest among the substrates tested. PsAO3 activity was almost completely inhibited by potassium cyanide, diphenyleneiodonium, and methanol. Rapidly imposed drought stress did not increase the level of PsAO3 mRNA or activity of any AO isoform, although an enhanced ABA accumulation and induction of PsNCED2 and -3 (9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase; EC 1.13.11.51) expression, both in the pea roots and leaves, was observed. During a progressively induced drought, the level of PsAO3 transcript and PsAOγ activity increased significantly in the roots and leaves, whereas ABA accumulation occurred only in the leaves where it was accompanied by induction of the PsNCED3 expression. Therefore, we suppose that next to NCED, also AO (mainly PsAOγ) might be involved in regulation of the drought-induced ABA synthesis. However, while the "constitutive activity" of PsAOγ is sufficient for the fast generation of ABA under rapid drought stress, the enhanced PsAOγ activity is required for the progressive and long-term ABA accumulation in the leaves under progressive drought stress.
Pea (Pisum sativum L.) lectin is known to have interesting pharmacological activities and of great interest on biomedical research. In the current research pea lectin was purified followed by ion exchange chromatography on DEAE column and affinity chromatography on glucose-sepharose column. The lectin shown 11.7-84% inhibitory effect against Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (EAC) cells at the concentration range of 8-120 μg/ml in RPMI 1640 medium as determined by MTT assay. Pea lectin was also shown 63% and 44% growth inhibition against EAC cells in vivo in mice when administered 2.8 mg/kg/day and 1.4 mg/kg/day (i.p.) respectively for five consequent days. When Pea lectin injected into the EAC bearing mice for 10 days its significantly increased the hemoglobin and RBC with the decreased of WBC levels toward the normal. Apoptotic cell morphological change of the treated EAC cells of mice was determined by fluorescence and optical microscope. Interestingly, cell growth inhibition of the lectin was significantly reduced in the presence of caspase inhibitors. Treatment with the lectin caused the cell cycle arrest at G2/M phase of EAC cells which was determined by flow cytometry. The expression of apoptosis-related genes, Bcl-2, Bcl-X and Bax was evaluated by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Intensive increase of Bax gene expression and totally despaired of Bcl-2 and Bcl-X gene expression were observed in the cells treated with Pea lectin for five consecutive days.
Plant-microbe interactions in the rhizosphere have important roles in biogeochemical cycling, and maintenance of plant health and productivity, yet remain poorly understood. Using RNA-based metatranscriptomics, the global active microbiomes were analysed in soil and rhizospheres of wheat, oat, pea and an oat mutant (sad1) deficient in production of anti-fungal avenacins. Rhizosphere microbiomes differed from bulk soil and between plant species. Pea (a legume) had a much stronger effect on the rhizosphere than wheat and oat (cereals), resulting in a dramatically different rhizosphere community. The relative abundance of eukaryotes in the oat and pea rhizospheres was more than fivefold higher than in the wheat rhizosphere or bulk soil. Nematodes and bacterivorous protozoa were enriched in all rhizospheres, whereas the pea rhizosphere was highly enriched for fungi. Metabolic capabilities for rhizosphere colonisation were selected, including cellulose degradation (cereals), H2 oxidation (pea) and methylotrophy (all plants). Avenacins had little effect on the prokaryotic community of oat, but the eukaryotic community was strongly altered in the sad1 mutant, suggesting that avenacins have a broader role than protecting from fungal pathogens. Profiling microbial communities with metatranscriptomics allows comparison of relative abundance, from multiple samples, across all domains of life, without polymerase chain reaction bias. This revealed profound differences in the rhizosphere microbiome, particularly at the kingdom level between plants.
The interaction between the clinical isolate of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) SBANU8 and pea sprouts was compared with avirulent K 12. E. coli. This was carried out by repeated co-incubation with pea sprouts for 5 days, and the protein profile of the culture supernatant was analyzed by single and two-dimensional electrophoresis. Mass spectrometry analysis led to the identification of two serine protease inhibitors including a Bowman-Birk-type protein secreted by pea sprouts in response to clinical isolate. Expression of the E. coli intimin gene involved in animal host colonization and virulence was studied by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Expression of this gene was high in SBANU8 when co-incubated with pea sprouts. The present study gives baseline data on the molecular level interactions of EPEC and pea sprouts, which are needed to design the outbreak control strategies.
Homoserine represents a substantial component of pea root exudate that may be important for plant-microbe interactions in the rhizosphere. We identified a gene cluster on plasmid pRL8JI that is required for homoserine utilization by Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae. The genes are arranged as two divergently expressed predicted operons that were induced by L-homoserine, pea root exudate, and were expressed on pea roots. A mutation in gene pRL80083 that prevented utilization of homoserine as a sole carbon and energy source affected the mutant's ability to nodulate peas and lentils competitively. The homoserine gene cluster was present in approximately 47% of natural R. leguminosarum isolates (n = 59) and was strongly correlated with homoserine utilization. Conjugation of pRL8JI to R. leguminosarum 4292 or Agrobacterium tumefaciens UBAPF2 was sufficient for homoserine utilization. The presence of L-homoserine increased conjugation efficiency of pRL8JI from R. leguminosarum to a pRL8JI-cured derivative of R. leguminosarum 1062 and to A. tumefaciens UBAPF2, and induced expression of the plasmid transfer gene trbB; however, there was no difference in conjugation efficiency or trbB expression with A. tumefaciens UBAPF2pRL8-Gm as the donor suggesting that other genes in R. leguminosarum may contribute to regulating conjugation of pRL8 in the presence of homoserine.
Pectin methylesterases (PMEs) are a family of enzymes involved in plant reproductive processes such as pollen development and pollen tube growth. We have isolated and characterized PsPMEP, a pea (Pisum sativum L.) pollen-specific gene that encodes a protein with homology to PMEs. Sequence analysis showed that PsPMEP belongs to group 2 PMEs, which are characterized by the presence of a processable amino-terminal PME inhibitor domain followed by the catalytic PME domain. Moreover, PsPMEP contains several motifs highly conserved among PMEs with the essential amino acid residues involved in enzyme substrate binding and catalysis. Northern blot and in situ hybridization analyses showed that PsPMEP is expressed in pollen grains from 4 days before anthesis till anther dehiscence and in pollinated carpels. In the PsPMEP promoter region, we have identified several conserved cis-regulatory elements that have been associated with gene pollen-specific expression. Expression analysis of PsPMEP promoter fused to the uidA reporter gene in Arabidopsis thaliana plants showed a similar expression pattern when compared with pea, indicating that this promoter is also functional in a non-leguminous plant. GUS expression was detected in mature pollen grains, during pollen germination, during pollen tube elongation along the transmitting tract, and when the pollen tube reaches the embryo sac in the ovule.
GPCRs play crucial roles in the growth, development and reproduction of organisms. In insects, a large number of GPCRs have been reported for Holometabola but not Hemimetabola. The recently sequenced pea aphid genome provides us with the opportunity to analyze the evolution and potential functions of GPCRs in Hemimetabola. 82 GPCRs were identified from the representative model hemimetabolous insect Acyrthosiphon pisum, 37 of which have ESTs evidence, and 73 are annotated for the first time. A striking difference between A. pisum, Drosophila melanogaster and Tribolium castaneum is the duplication of the kinin and SIFamide receptors in A. pisum. Another divergence is the loss of the sulfakinin receptor in A. pisum. These duplications/losses are likely involved in the osmoregulation, reproduction and energy metabolism of A. pisum. Moreover, this work will promote functional analyses of GPCRs in A. pisum and may advance new drug target discovery for biological control of the aphid.
Treatment of plants with thiamine (Vitamin B1) has before been shown to activate plant defence against microorganisms. Here, we have studied the effects of thiamine treatments of plants on aphid reproduction and behaviour. The work was mainly carried out with bird cherry-oat aphid (Rhopalosiphum padi L.) on barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Aphid population growth and aphid acceptance on plants grown from seeds soaked in a 150μM thiamine solution were reduced to ca. 60% of that on control plants. R. padi life span and the total number of offspring were reduced on barley plants treated with thiamine. Healthy aphids and aphids infected with the R. padi virus were similarly affected. Spraying or addition of thiamine at 150μM to nutrient solutions likewise resulted in reduced aphid population growth to ca. 60%, as did plant exposure to thiamine odour at 4mM. Thiamine treatments resulted in reduced aphid population growth also when tested with grain aphid (Sitobion avenae F.) on barley and pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum H.) on pea (Pisum sativum L.). There was no direct effect of thiamine on aphid reproduction or thiamine odour on aphid behaviour, as evaluated using artificial diets and by olfactometer tests, respectively. Two gene sequences regulated by salicylic acid showed higher transcript abundance and one gene sequence regulated by methyl jasmonate showed lower transcript abundance in thiamine-treated plants but not in control plants after aphid infestation. These results suggest that the aphid antibiosis and antixenosis effects may be related to priming of defence, but more studies are needed to explain the effects against aphids.
To fortify the antioxidant capacity of plum plants, genes encoding cytosolic antioxidants ascorbate peroxidase (cytapx) and Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase (cytsod) were genetically engineered in these plants. Transgenic plum plants expressing the cytsod and/or cytapx genes in cytosol have been generated under the control of the CaMV35S promoter. High levels of cytsod and cytapx gene transcripts suggested that the transgenes were constitutively and functionally expressed. We examined the potential functions of cytSOD and cytAPX in in vitro plum plants against salt stress (100 mm NaCl). Several transgenic plantlets expressing cytsod and/or cytapx showed an enhanced tolerance to salt stress, mainly lines C5-5 and J8-1 (expressing several copies of sod and apx, respectively). Transformation as well as NaCl treatments influenced the antioxidative metabolism of plum plantlets, including enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidants. Transgenic plantlets exhibited higher contents of nonenzymatic antioxidants glutathione and ascorbate than nontransformed control, which correlated with lower accumulation of hydrogen peroxide. Overall, our results suggest that transformation of plum plants with genes encoding antioxidant enzymes enhances the tolerance to salinity.
In a previous work, it was shown that bicarbonate (one of the most important factors causing Fe chlorosis in Strategy I plants) can limit the expression of several genes involved in Fe acquisition. Hypoxia is considered another important factor causing Fe chlorosis, mainly on calcareous soils. However, to date it is not known whether hypoxia aggravates Fe chlorosis by affecting bicarbonate concentration or by specific negative effects on Fe acquisition. Results found in this work show that hypoxia, generated by eliminating the aeration of the nutrient solution, can limit the expression of several Fe acquisition genes in Fe-deficient Arabidopsis, cucumber and pea plants, like the genes for ferric reductases AtFRO2, PsFRO1 and CsFRO1; iron transporters AtIRT1, PsRIT1 and CsIRT1; H(+) -ATPase CsHA1; and transcription factors AtFIT, AtbHLH38, and AtbHLH39. Interestingly, the limitation of the expression of Fe-acquisition genes by hypoxia did not occur in the Arabidopsis ethylene constitutive mutant ctr1, which suggests that the negative effect of hypoxia is related to ethylene, an hormone involved in the upregulation of Fe acquisition genes. As for hypoxia, results obtained by applying bicarbonate to the nutrient solution suggests that ethylene is also involved in its negative effect, since ACC (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid; ethylene precursor) partially reversed the negative effect of bicarbonate on the expression of Fe acquisition genes. Taken together, the results obtained show that hypoxia and bicarbonate could induce Fe chlorosis by limiting the expression of Fe acquisition genes, probably because each factor negatively affects different steps of ethylene synthesis and/or signaling.
Aphids respond to specific environmental cues by producing alternative morphs, a phenomenon called polyphenism, but also by modulating their individual behavior even within the same morph. This complex plasticity allows a rapid adaptation of individuals to fluctuating environmental conditions, but the underlying genetic and molecular mechanisms remain largely unknown. The foraging gene is known to be associated with behavior in various species and has been shown to mediate the behavioral shift induced by environmental changes in some insects. In this study, we investigated the function of this gene in the clonal forms of the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum by identifying and cloning cDNA variants, as well as analyzing their expression levels in developmental morphs and behavioral variants. Our results indicate that the expression of foraging changes at key steps of the aphid development. This gene is also highly expressed in sedentary wingless adult morphs reared under crowded conditions, probably just before they start walking and foraging. The cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) enzyme activity measured in the behavioral variants correlates with the level of foraging expression. Altogether, our results suggest that foraging could act to promote the shift from a sedentary to an exploratory behavior, being thus involved in the behavioral plasticity of the pea aphid.
The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effects of fibre source on intestinal mucosal barrier function in weaning piglets. A total of 125 piglets were randomly allotted on the basis of their body weight and litters to one of five experimental diets, i.e. a control diet without fibre source (CT), and diets in which expanded maize was replaced by 10% maize fibre (MF), 10% soyabean fibre (SF), 10% wheat bran fibre (WBF) or 10% pea fibre (PF). The diets and water were fed ad libitum for 30 d. Piglets on the WBF and PF diets had lower diarrhoea incidence compared with the MF- and SF-fed animals. A higher ratio of villous height:crypt depth in the ileum of WBF-fed piglets and higher colonic goblet cells in WBF- and PF-fed piglets were observed compared with CT-, MF- and SF-fed piglets. In the intestinal digesta, feeding WBF and PF resulted in increased Lactobacillus counts in the ileum and Bifidobacterium counts in the colon. Lower Escherichia coli counts occurred in the ileum and colon of WBF-fed piglets than in SF-fed piglets. Tight junction protein (zonula occludens 1; ZO-1) and Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) gene mRNA levels were up-regulated in the ileum and colon of pigs fed WBF; however, feeding MF and SF raised IL-1α and TNF-α mRNA levels. Furthermore, higher diamine oxidase activities, transforming growth factor-α, trefoil factor family and MHC-II concentration occurred when feeding WBF and PF. In conclusion, the various fibre sources had different effects on the ileal and colonic barrier function. Clearly, WBF and PF improved the intestinal barrier function, probably mediated by changes in microbiota composition and concomitant changes in TLR2 gene expression.
In angiosperms, leaf and stipule architectures are inherited species-specific traits. Variation in leaf and stipule sizes, and forms result from the interaction between abiotic and biotic stimuli, and gene regulatory network(s) that underlie the leaf and stipule developmental programme(s). Here, correspondence between variation in leaf and stipule architectures described for extant angiosperms and that induced mutationally and by imposition of stress in model angiosperm species, especially in Pisum sativum, was detected. Following inferences were drawn from the observations. (i) Several leaf forms in P. sativum have origin in fusion of stipule and leaf primordia. Perfoliate (and amplexicaul and connate) simple sessile leaves and sessile adnate leaves are the result of such primordial fusions. Reversal of changes in the gene regulatory network responsible for fusion products are thought to restore original stipule and leaf conditions. (ii) Compound leaf formation in several different model plants, is a result of promotion of pathways for such condition by gene regulatory networks directed by KNOx1 and LEAFY transcription factors or intercalation of the gene networks directed by them. (iii) Gene regulatory network for compound leaves in P. sativum when mutated generates highly complex compound leaves on one hand and simple leaves on other hand. These altered conditions are mutationally reversible. (vi) Simple leaves in model plants such as Arabidopsis thaliana despite overexpression of KNOx1 orthologues do not become compound. (v) All forms of leaves, including simple leaf, probably have origins in a gene regulatory network of the kind present in P. sativum.
Cold stress affects plant growth and development. In order to better understand the responses to cold (chilling or freezing tolerance), we used two contrasted pea lines. Following a chilling period, the Champagne line becomes tolerant to frost whereas the Terese line remains sensitive. Four suppression subtractive hybridisation libraries were obtained using mRNAs isolated from pea genotypes Champagne and Terese. Using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) performed on 159 genes, 43 and 54 genes were identified as differentially expressed at the initial time point and during the time course study, respectively. Molecular markers were developed from the differentially expressed genes and were genotyped on a population of 164 RILs derived from a cross between Champagne and Terese. We identified 5 candidate genes colocalizing with 3 different frost damage quantitative trait loci (QTL) intervals and a protein quantity locus (PQL) rich region previously reported. This investigation revealed the role of constitutive differences between both genotypes in the cold responses, in particular with genes related to glycine degradation pathway that could confer to Champagne a better frost tolerance. We showed that freezing tolerance involves a decrease of expression of genes related to photosynthesis and the expression of a gene involved in the production of cysteine and methionine that could act as cryoprotectant molecules. Although it remains to be confirmed, this study could also reveal the involvement of the jasmonate pathway in the cold responses, since we observed that two genes related to this pathway were mapped in a frost damage QTL interval and in a PQL rich region interval, respectively.
In pea carrying cyv1, a recessive gene for resistance to Clover yellow vein virus (ClYVV), ClYVV isolate Cl-no30 was restricted to the initially infected cells, whereas isolate 90-1 Br2 overcame this resistance. We mapped the region responsible for breaking of cyv1-mediated resistance by examining infection of cyv1 pea with chimeric viruses constructed from parts of Cl-no30 and 90-1 Br2. The breaking of resistance was attributed to the P3 cistron, which is known to produce two proteins: P3, from the main open reading frame (ORF), and P3N-PIPO, which has the N-terminal part of P3 fused to amino acids encoded by a small open reading frame (ORF) called PIPO in the +2 reading frame. We introduced point mutations that were synonymous with respect to the P3 protein but nonsynonymous with respect to the P3N-PIPO protein, and vice versa, into the chimeric viruses. Infection of plants with these mutant viruses revealed that both P3 and P3N-PIPO were involved in overcoming cyv1-mediated resistance. Moreover, P3N-PIPO quantitatively affected the virulence of Cl-no30 in cyv1 pea. Additional expression in trans of the P3N-PIPO derived from Cl-no30, using White clover mosaic virus as a vector, enabled Cl-no30 to move to systemic leaves in cyv1 pea. Susceptible pea plants infected with chimeric ClYVV possessing the P3 cistron of 90-1 Br2, and which were therefore virulent toward cyv1 pea, accumulated more P3N-PIPO than did those infected with Cl-no30, suggesting that the higher level of P3N-PIPO in infected cells contributed to the breaking of resistance by 90-1 Br2. This is the first report showing that P3N-PIPO is a virulence determinant in plants resistant to a potyvirus.
Plants make coenzyme A (CoA) in the cytoplasm but use it for reactions in mitochondria, chloroplasts, and peroxisomes, implying that these organelles have CoA transporters. A plant peroxisomal CoA transporter is already known, but plant mitochondrial or chloroplastic CoA transporters are not. Mitochondrial CoA transporters belonging to the mitochondrial carrier family, however, have been identified in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae; Leu-5p) and mammals (SLC25A42). Comparative genomic analysis indicated that angiosperms have two distinct homologs of these mitochondrial CoA transporters, whereas nonflowering plants have only one. The homologs from maize (Zea mays; GRMZM2G161299 and GRMZM2G420119) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana; At1g14560 and At4g26180) all complemented the growth defect of the yeast leu5Δ mitochondrial CoA carrier mutant and substantially restored its mitochondrial CoA level, confirming that these proteins have CoA transport activity. Dual-import assays with purified pea (Pisum sativum) mitochondria and chloroplasts, and subcellular localization of green fluorescent protein fusions in transiently transformed tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) Bright Yellow-2 cells, showed that the maize and Arabidopsis proteins are targeted to mitochondria. Consistent with the ubiquitous importance of CoA, the maize and Arabidopsis mitochondrial CoA transporter genes are expressed at similar levels throughout the plant. These data show that representatives of both monocotyledons and eudicotyledons have twin, mitochondrially located mitochondrial carrier family carriers for CoA. The highly conserved nature of these carriers makes possible their reliable annotation in other angiosperm genomes.
Nutritional symbioses play a central role in insects' adaptation to specialized diets and in their evolutionary success. The obligatory symbiosis between the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum, and the bacterium, Buchnera aphidicola, is no exception as it enables this important agricultural pest insect to develop on a diet exclusively based on plant phloem sap. The symbiotic bacteria provide the host with essential amino acids lacking in its diet but necessary for the rapid embryonic growth seen in the parthenogenetic viviparous reproduction of aphids. The aphid furnishes, in exchange, non-essential amino acids and other important metabolites. Understanding the regulations acting on this integrated metabolic system during the development of this insect is essential in elucidating aphid biology. We used a microarray-based approach to analyse gene expression in the late embryonic and the early larval stages of the pea aphid, characterizing, for the first time, the transcriptional profiles in these developmental phases. Our analyses allowed us to identify key genes in the phenylalanine, tyrosine and dopamine pathways and we identified ACYPI004243, one of the four genes encoding for the aspartate transaminase (E.C. 2.6.1.1), as specifically regulated during development. Indeed, the tyrosine biosynthetic pathway is crucial for the symbiotic metabolism as it is shared between the two partners, all the precursors being produced by B. aphidicola. Our microarray data are supported by HPLC amino acid analyses demonstrating an accumulation of tyrosine at the same developmental stages, with an up-regulation of the tyrosine biosynthetic genes. Tyrosine is also essential for the synthesis of cuticular proteins and it is an important precursor for cuticle maturation: together with the up-regulation of tyrosine biosynthesis, we observed an up-regulation of cuticular genes expression. We were also able to identify some amino acid transporter genes which are essential for the switch over to the late embryonic stages in pea aphid development. Our data show that, in the development of A. pisum, a specific host gene set regulates the biosynthetic pathways of amino acids, demonstrating how the regulation of gene expression enables an insect to control the production of metabolites crucial for its own development and symbiotic metabolism.
Cryptochromes are blue-light photoreceptors involved in regulating many aspects of plant growth and development. Investigations of cryptochromes in plants have largely focused on Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), tomato (Solanum lycopersicum), rice (Oryza sativa) and pea (Pisum sativum). Here, we isolated the cryptochrome 1 gene from apple (Malus domestica) (MdCRY1) and analyzed its function in transgenic Arabidopsis. The predicted MdCRY1 protein was most closely homologous to strawberry CRY1. In terms of transcript levels, MdCRY1 expression was up-regulated by light. The function of MdCRY1 was analyzed through heterologous expression in Arabidopsis. Overexpression of MdCRY1 in Arabidopsis is able to rescue the cry1 mutant phenotype, inhibit hypocotyl elongation, promote root growth, and enhance anthocyanin accumulation in wild-type seedlings under blue light. These data provide functional evidence for a role of MdCRY1 in controlling photomorphogenesis under blue light and indicate that CRY1 function is conserved between Arabidopsis and apple. Furthermore, we found that MdCRY1 interacts with AtCOP1 in both yeast and onion cells. This interaction may represent an important regulatory mechanism in blue-light signaling pathway in apple.
Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbioses are important for nutrient acquisition in >80 % of terrestrial plants. Recently there have been major breakthroughs in understanding the signals that regulate colonization by the fungus, but the roles of the known plant hormones are still emerging. Here our understanding of the roles of abscisic acid, ethylene, auxin, strigolactones, salicylic acid and jasmonic acid is discussed, and the roles of gibberellins and brassinosteroids examined. Pea mutants deficient in gibberellins, DELLA proteins and brassinosteroids are used to determine whether fungal colonization is altered by the level of these hormones or signalling compounds. Expression of genes activated during mycorrhizal colonization is also monitored. Arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization of pea roots is substantially increased in gibberellin-deficient na-1 mutants compared with wild-type plants. This is reversed by application of GA3. Mutant la cry-s, which lacks gibberellin signalling DELLA proteins, shows reduced colonization. These changes were parallelled by changes in the expression of genes associated with mycorrhizal colonization. The brassinosteroid-deficient lkb mutant showed no change in colonization. Biologically active gibberellins suppress arbuscule formation in pea roots, and DELLA proteins are essential for this response, indicating that this role occurs within the root cells.
In this study we examined the role of antioxidant metabolism in in vitro shoot multiplication. We generated transgenic plum plantlets overexpressing the cytsod and cytapx genes in cytosol under the control of the constitutive promoter CaMV35S. Three transgenic lines with up-regulated sod at transcriptional levels that showed silenced cytapx expression displayed an elevated in vitro multiplication rate. By contrast, a transgenic line harboring several copies of cytapx and with elevated APX enzymatic activity did not show any improvement in plant vigor, measured as the number of axillary shoots and shoot length. All of the lines with elevated micropropagation ability exhibited intensive H2O2 accumulation, monitored by 3,3'-diaminobenzidine (DAB) staining as well as by colorimetric analysis, providing direct in vitro evidence of the role of H2O2 and antioxidant genes in in vitro shoot multiplication.
Fusarium proliferatum and F. verticillioides are considered as minor pathogens of pea (Pisum sativum L.). Both species can survive in seed material without visible disease symptoms, but still contaminating it with fumonisins. Two populations of pea-derived F. proliferatum and F. verticillioides strains were subjected to FUM1 sequence divergence analysis, forming a distinct group when compared to the collection strains originating from different host species. Furthermore, the mycotoxigenic abilities of those strains were evaluated on the basis of in planta and in vitro fumonisin biosynthesis. No differences were observed in fumonisin B (FB) levels measured in pea seeds (maximum level reached 1.5 μg g(-1)); however, in rice cultures, the majority of F. proliferatum genotypes produced higher amounts of FB1-FB3 than F. verticillioides strains.
We report for the first time that expression of potato PR10a gene in faba bean causes enhanced tolerance to drought and salinity. Grain legumes such as soybean (Glycine max L. Merrill), pea (Pisum sativum L.) and faba bean (Vicia faba L.) are staple sources of protein for human and animal nutrition. Among grain legumes, faba bean is particularly sensitive to abiotic stress (in particular osmotic stress due to lack of water or enhanced soil salinity) and often suffers from severe yield losses. Many stress responsive genes have been reported with an effect on improving stress tolerance in model plants. Pathogenesis-related proteins are expressed by all plants in response to pathogen infection and, in many cases, in response to abiotic stresses as well. The PR10a gene isolated from the potato cultivar Desiree was selected for this study due to its role in enhancing salt and/or drought tolerance in potato, and transferred into faba bean cultivar Tattoo by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation system based upon direct shoot regeneration after transformation of meristematic cells derived from embryo axes. The transgene was under the control of the constitutive mannopine synthase promoter (p-MAS) in a dicistronic binary vector, which also contained luciferase (Luc) gene as scorable marker linked by internal ribosome entry site elements. Fertile transgenic faba bean plants were recovered. Inheritance and expression of the foreign genes were demonstrated by PCR, RT-PCR, Southern blot and monitoring of Luciferase activity. Under drought condition, after withholding water for 3 weeks, the leaves of transgenic plants were still green, while non-transgenic plants (WT) wilted and turned brown. Twenty-four hours after re-watering, the leaves of transgenic plants remained green, while WT plants did not recover. Moreover, the transgenic lines displayed higher tolerance to NaCl stress. Our results suggested that introducing a novel PR10a gene into faba bean could be a promising approach to improve its drought and salt tolerance ability, and that MAS promoter is not only constitutive, but also wound-, auxin/cytokinin- as well as stress-inducible.
The pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum) can reproduce either sexually or asexually (parthenogenetically), giving rise, in each case, to almost identical adults. These two modes of reproduction are accompanied by differences in ovarian morphology and the developmental environment of the offspring, with sexual forms producing eggs that are laid, whereas asexual development occurs within the mother. Here we examine the effect each mode of reproduction has on the expression of key maternal and axis patterning genes; orthodenticle (otd), hunchback (hb), caudal (cad) and nanos (nos). We show that three of these genes (Ap-hb, Ap-otd and Ap-cad) are expressed differently between the sexually and asexually produced oocytes and embryos of the pea aphid. We also show, using immunohistochemistry and cytoskeletal inhibitors, that Ap-hb RNA is localized differently between sexually and asexually produced oocytes, and that this is likely due to differences in the 3' untranslated regions of the RNA. Furthermore, Ap-hb and Ap-otd have extensive expression domains in early sexually produced embryos, but are not expressed at equivalent stages in asexually produced embryos. These differences in expression likely correspond with substantial changes in the gene regulatory networks controlling early development in the pea aphid. These data imply that in the evolution of parthenogenesis a new program has evolved to control the development of asexually produced embryos, whilst retaining the existing, sexual, developmental program. The patterns of modification of these developmental processes mirror the changes that we see in developmental processes between species, in that early acting pathways in development are less constrained, and evolve faster, than later ones. We suggest that the evolution of the novel asexual development pathway in aphids is not a simple modification of an ancestral system, but the evolution of two very different developmental mechanisms occurring within a single species.
Processes of leaf morphogenesis provide the basis for the great diversity of leaf form among higher plants. The common garden pea (Pisum sativum) offers a developmental model system for understanding how gene and hormone interactions impart a large array of mutant leaf phenotypes.  To understand the role of auxin in AF and UNI gene function and their interaction, we compared the range of leaf phenotypes on afila (af) and unifoliata (uni) double mutants, examined the effects of these mutations on auxin levels, auxin transport, auxin response via DR5::GUS, and expression of auxin-regulated genes.  The adult leaves of af uni double mutants have leaflets and tendrils and typically possess two lateral pinna pairs and a terminal leaflet. The af mutants have higher auxin content, stronger auxin response, and higher expression of auxin responsive genes than wildtype. The uni mutant has reduced auxin content and transport, whereas the uni-tac mutant has higher auxin content and transport and reduced auxin response compared to wildtype.  Auxin concentration and response differences characterize the antagonistic relationship between AF and UNI in pea leaf development. The mechanism involves modulation of auxin mediated by one or both genes; UNI is expressed in and promotes high auxin levels, and AF suppresses auxin levels.
Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) have a key role in plant phosphate (Pi) uptake by their efficient capture of soil phosphorus (P) that is transferred to the plant via Pi transporters in the root cortical cells. The activity of this mycorrhizal Pi uptake pathway is often associated with downregulation of Pi transporter genes in the direct Pi uptake pathway. As the total Pi taken up by the plant is determined by the combined activity of mycorrhizal and direct pathways, it is important to understand the interplay between these, in particular the actual activity of the pathways. To study this interplay we modulated the delivery of Pi via the mycorrhizal pathway in Pisum sativum by two means: (1) Partial downregulation by virus-induced gene silencing of PsPT4, a putative Pi transporter gene in the mycorrhizal pathway. This resulted in decreased fungal development in roots and soil and led to reduced plant Pi uptake. (2) Changing the percentage of AMF-colonized root length by using non-, half-mycorrhizal or full-mycorrhizal split-root systems. The combination of split roots, use of ³²P and ³³P isotopes and partial silencing of PsPT4 enabled us to show that the expression of PsPT1, a putative Pi transporter gene in the direct pathway, was negatively correlated with increasing mycorrhizal uptake capacity of the plant, both locally and systemically. However, transcript changes in PsPT1 were not translated into corresponding, systemic changes in actual direct Pi uptake. Our results suggest that AMF have a limited long-distance impact on the direct pathway.
Ferredoxins (Fds) are ferrosulfoproteins that function as low-potential electron carriers in plants. The Fd family is composed of several isoforms that share high sequence homology but differ in functional characteristics. In leaves, at least two isoforms conduct linear and cyclic photosynthetic electron transport around photosystem I, and mounting evidence suggests the existence of at least partial division of duties between these isoforms. To evaluate the contribution of different kinds of Fds to the control of electron fluxes along the photosynthetic electron transport chain, we overexpressed a minor pea (Pisum sativum) Fd isoform (PsFd1) in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants. The transplastomic OeFd1 plants exhibited variegated leaves and retarded growth and developmental rates. Photosynthetic studies of these plants indicated a reduction in carbon dioxide assimilation rates, photosystem II photochemistry, and linear electron flow. However, the plants showed an increase in nonphotochemical quenching, better control of excitation pressure at photosystem II, and no evidence of photoinhibition, implying a better dynamic regulation to remove excess energy from the photosynthetic electron transport chain. Finally, analysis of P700 redox status during illumination confirmed that the minor pea Fd isoform promotes enhanced cyclic flow around photosystem I. The two novel features of this work are: (1) that Fd levels achieved in transplastomic plants promote an alternative electron partitioning even under greenhouse light growth conditions, a situation that is exacerbated at higher light intensity measurements; and (2) that an alternative, minor Fd isoform has been overexpressed in plants, giving new evidence of labor division among Fd isoforms.
The formation of auxin conjugates is one of the important regulatory mechanisms for modulating IAA action. Several auxin-responsive GH3 genes encode IAA-amide synthetases that are involved in the maintenance of hormonal homeostasis by conjugating excess IAA to amino acids. Recently, the data have revealed novel regulatory functions of several GH3 proteins in plant growth, organ development, fruit ripening, light signaling, abiotic stress tolerance and plant defense responses. Indole-3-acetyl-aspartate (IAA-Asp) synthetase catalyzing IAA conjugation to aspartic acid in immature seeds of pea (Pisum sativum L.) was purified and characterized during our previous investigations. In this study, we examined the effect of auxin and other plant hormones (ABA, GA, kinetin, JA, MeJA, SA), different light conditions (red, far-red, blue, white light), and auxinic herbicides (2,4-D, Dicamba, Picloram) on the expression of a putative GH3 gene and IAA-amide synthesizing activity in 10-d-old pea seedlings. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis indicated that the PsGH3-5 gene, weakly expressed in control sample, was visibly induced in response to all plant hormones, different light wavelengths and the auxinic herbicides tested. Protein A immunoprecipitation/gel blot analysis using anti-AtGH3.5 antibodies revealed a similar pattern of changes on the protein levels in response to all treatments. IAA-amide synthetase activity determined with aspartate as a substrate, not detectable in control seedlings, was positively affected by a majority of treatments. Based on these results, we suggest that PsGH3-5 may control the growth and development of pea plants in a way similar to the known GH3 genes from other plant species.
Pea (Pisum sativum L.) productivity is linked to its ability to cope with abiotic stresses such as low temperatures during fall and winter. In this study, we investigate the chloroplast-related changes occurring during pea cold acclimation, in order to further lead to genetic improvement of its field performance. Champagne and Térèse, two pea lines with different acclimation capabilities, were studied by physiological measurements, sub-cellular fractionation followed by relative protein quantification and two-dimensional DIGE. The chilling tolerance might be related to an increase in protein related to soluble sugar synthesis, antioxidant potential, regulation of mRNA transcription and translation through the chloroplast. Freezing tolerance, only observed in Champagne, seems to rely on a higher inherent photosynthetic potential at the beginning of the cold exposure, combined with an early ability to start metabolic processes aimed at maintaining the photosynthetic capacity, optimizing the stoichiometry of the photosystems and inducing dynamic changes in carbohydrate and protein synthesis and/or turnover.
MdCRY2 was isolated from apple fruit skin, and its function was analyzed in MdCRY2 transgenic Arabidopsis. The interaction between MdCRY2 and AtCOP1 was found by yeast two-hybrid and BiFC assays. Cryptochromes are blue/ultraviolet-A (UV-A) light receptors involved in regulating various aspects of plant growth and development. Investigations of the structure and functions of cryptochromes in plants have largely focused on Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), tomato (Solanum lycopersicum), pea (Pisum sativum), and rice (Oryza sativa). However, no data on the function of CRY2 are available in woody plants. In this study, we isolated a cryptochrome gene, MdCRY2, from apple (Malus domestica). The deduced amino acid sequences of MdCRY2 contain the conserved N-terminal photolyase-related domain and the flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) binding domain, as well as the C-terminal DQXVP-acidic-STAES (DAS) domain. Relationship analysis indicates that MdCRY2 shows the highest similarity to the strawberry FvCRY protein. The expression of MdCRY2 is induced by blue/UV-A light, which represents a 48-h circadian rhythm. To investigate the function of MdCRY2, we overexpressed the MdCRY2 gene in a cry2 mutant and wild type (WT) Arabidopsis, assessed the phenotypes of the resulting transgenic plants, and found that MdCRY2 functions to regulate hypocotyl elongation, root growth, flower initiation, and anthocyanin accumulation. Furthermore, we examined the interaction between MdCRY2 and AtCOP1 using a yeast two-hybrid assay and a bimolecular fluorescence complementation assay. These data provide functional evidence for a role of blue/UV-A light-induced MdCRY2 in controlling photomorphogenesis in apple.
Gene expression profiles of the biological control strain Pseudomonas protegens Pf-5 inhabiting pea seed surfaces were revealed using a whole-genome oligonucleotide microarray. We identified genes expressed by Pf-5 under the control of two global regulators (GacA and RpoS) known to influence biological control and secondary metabolism. Transcript levels of 897 genes, including many with unknown functions as well as those for biofilm formation, cyclic diguanylate (c-di-GMP) signalling, iron homeostasis and secondary metabolism, were influenced by one or both regulators, providing evidence for expression of these genes by Pf-5 on seed surfaces. Comparison of the GacA and RpoS transcriptomes defined for Pf-5 grown on seed versus in broth culture overlapped, but most genes were regulated by GacA or RpoS under only one condition, likely due to differing levels of expression in the two conditions. We quantified secondary metabolites produced by Pf-5 and gacA and rpoS mutants on seed and in culture, and found that production profiles corresponded generally with biosynthetic gene expression profiles. Future studies evaluating biological control mechanisms can now focus on genes expressed by Pf-5 on seed surfaces, the habitat where the bacterium interacts with seed-infecting pathogens to suppress seedling diseases.
Strigolactones (SLs), or their metabolites, were recently identified as endogenous inhibitors of shoot branching. However, certain key features and dynamics of SL action remained to be physiologically characterized. Here we show that successive direct application of SL to axillary buds at every node along the stem can fully inhibit branching. The SL inhibition of early outgrowth did not require inhibitory signals from other growing buds or the shoot tip. In addition to this very early or initial suppression of outgrowth, we also found SL to be effective, up to a point, at moderating the continuing growth of axillary branches. The effectiveness of SL at affecting bud and branch growth correlated with the ability of SL to regulate expression of PsBRC1. PsBRC1 is a transcription factor that is expressed strongly in axillary buds and is required for SL inhibition of shoot branching. Consistent with a dynamic role of the hormone, SL inhibition of bud growth did not prevent buds from later responding to a decapitation treatment, even though SL treatment immediately after decapitation inhibits the outgrowth response. Also, as expected from the hypothesized branching control network in plants, treatment of exogenous SL caused feedback down-regulation of SL biosynthesis genes within 2 h. Altogether, these results reveal new insights into the dynamics of SL function and support the premise that SLs or SL-derived metabolites function dynamically as a shoot branching hormone and that they act directly in axillary buds.
Hormone interactions are essential for the control of many developmental processes, including intracellular symbioses. The interaction between auxin and the new plant hormone strigolactone in the regulation of arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis was examined in one of the few auxin deficient mutants available in a mycorrhizal species, the auxin-deficient bsh mutant of pea (Pisum sativum). Mycorrhizal colonisation with the fungus Glomus intraradices was significantly reduced in the low auxin bsh mutant. The bsh mutant also exhibited a reduction in strigolactone exudation and the expression of a key strigolactone biosynthesis gene (PsCCD8). Strigolactone exudation was also reduced in wild type plants when the auxin content was reduced by stem girdling. Low strigolactone levels appear to be at least partially responsible for the reduced colonisation of the bsh mutant, as application of the synthetic strigolactone GR24 could partially rescue the mycorrhizal phenotype of bsh mutants. Data presented here indicates root auxin content was correlated with strigolactone exudation in both mutant and wild type plants. Mutant studies suggest that auxin may regulate early events in the formation of arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis by controlling strigolactone levels, both in the rhizosphere and possibly during early root colonisation.
Legumes were among the first plant species to be domesticated, and accompanied cereals in expansion of agriculture from the Fertile Crescent into diverse environments across the Mediterranean basin, Europe, Central Asia, and the Indian subcontinent. Although several recent studies have outlined the molecular basis for domestication and eco-geographic adaptation in the two main cereals from this region, wheat and barley, similar questions remain largely unexplored in their legume counterparts. Here we identify two major loci controlling differences in photoperiod response between wild and domesticated pea, and show that one of these, high response to photoperiod (HR), is an ortholog of early flowering 3 (ELF3), a gene involved in circadian clock function. We found that a significant proportion of flowering time variation in global pea germplasm is controlled by HR, with a single, widespread functional variant conferring altered circadian rhythms and the reduced photoperiod response associated with the spring habit. We also present evidence that ELF3 has a similar role in lentil, another major legume crop, with a distinct functional variant contributing to reduced photoperiod response in cultivars widely deployed in short-season environments. Our results identify the factor likely to have permitted the successful prehistoric expansion of legume cultivation to Northern Europe, and define a conserved genetic basis for major adaptive changes in flowering phenology and growth habit in an important crop group.
White mold, caused by Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, is one of the most important diseases of pea (Pisum sativum L.), however, little is known about the genetics and biochemistry of this interaction. Identification of genes underlying resistance in the host or pathogenicity and virulence factors in the pathogen will increase our knowledge of the pea-S. sclerotiorum interaction and facilitate the introgression of new resistance genes into commercial pea varieties. Although the S. sclerotiorum genome sequence is available, no pea genome is available, due in part to its large genome size (~3500 Mb) and extensive repeated motifs. Here we present an EST data set specific to the interaction between S. sclerotiorum and pea, and a method to distinguish pathogen and host sequences without a species-specific reference genome. 10,158 contigs were obtained by de novo assembly of 128,720 high-quality reads generated by 454 pyrosequencing of the pea-S. sclerotiorum interactome. A method based on the tBLASTx program was modified to distinguish pea and S. sclerotiorum ESTs. To test this strategy, a mixture of known ESTs (18,490 pea and 17,198 S. sclerotiorum ESTs) from public databases were pooled and parsed; the tBLASTx method successfully separated 90.1% of the artificial EST mix with 99.9% accuracy. The tBLASTx method successfully parsed 89.4% of the 454-derived EST contigs, as validated by PCR, into pea (6,299 contigs) and S. sclerotiorum (2,780 contigs) categories. Two thousand eight hundred and forty pea ESTs and 996 S. sclerotiorum ESTs were predicted to be expressed specifically during the pea-S. sclerotiorum interaction as determined by homology search against 81,449 pea ESTs (from flowers, leaves, cotyledons, epi- and hypocotyl, and etiolated and light treated etiolated seedlings) and 57,751 S. sclerotiorum ESTs (from mycelia at neutral pH, developing apothecia and developing sclerotia). Among those ESTs specifically expressed, 277 (9.8%) pea ESTs were predicted to be involved in plant defense and response to biotic or abiotic stress, and 93 (9.3%) S. sclerotiorum ESTs were predicted to be involved in pathogenicity/virulence. Additionally, 142 S. sclerotiorum ESTs were identified as secretory/signal peptides of which only 21 were previously reported. We present and characterize an EST resource specific to the pea-S. sclerotiorum interaction. Additionally, the tBLASTx method used to parse S. sclerotiorum and pea ESTs was demonstrated to be a reliable and accurate method to distinguish ESTs without a reference genome.
Members of the Alb3/Oxa1/YidC protein family function as insertases in chloroplasts, mitochondria, and bacteria. Due to independent gene duplications, all organisms possess two isoforms, Oxa1 and Oxa2 except gram-negative bacteria, which encode only for one YidC-like protein. The genome of Arabidopsis thaliana however, encodes for eight different isoforms. The localization of three of these isoforms has been identified earlier: Alb3 and Alb4 located in thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts while AtOxa1 was found in the inner membrane of mitochondria. Here, we show that the second Oxa1 protein, Oxa1b as well as two Oxa2 proteins are also localized in mitochondria. The last two isoforms most likely encode truncated versions of Oxa-like proteins, which might be inoperable pseudogenes. Homozygous mutant lines were only obtained for Oxa1b, which did not reveal any significant phenotypes, while T-DNA insertion lines of Oxa1a, Oxa2a and Oxa2b resulted only in heterozygous plants indicating that these genes are indispensable for plant development. Phenotyping heterozygous lines showed that embryos are either retarded in growth, display an albino phenotype or embryo formation was entirely abolished suggesting that Oxa1a and both Oxa2 proteins function in embryo formation although at different developmental stages as indicated by the various phenotypes observed.
UNIFOLIATA [(UNI) or UNIFOLIATA-TENDRILLED ACACIA (UNI-TAC)] expression is known to be negatively regulated by COCHLEATA (COCH) in the differentiating stipules and flowers of Pisum sativum. In this study, additional roles of UNI and COCH in P. sativum were investigated. Comparative phenotyping revealed pleiotropic differences between COCH (UNI-TAC and uni-tac) and coch (UNI-TAC and uni-tac) genotypes of common genetic background. Secondary inflorescences were bracteole-less and bracteolated in COCH and coch genotypes, respectively. In comparison to the leaves and corresponding sub-organs and tissues produced on COCH plants, coch plants produced leaves of 1.5-fold higher biomass, 1.5-fold broader petioles and leaflets that were 1.8-fold larger in span and 1.2-fold dorso-ventrally thicker. coch leaflets possessed epidermal cells 1.3-fold larger in number and size, 1.4-fold larger spongy parenchyma cells and primary vascular bundles with 1.2-fold larger diameter. The transcript levels of UNI were at least 2-fold higher in coch leaves and secondary inflorescences than the corresponding COCH organs. It was concluded that COCH negatively regulated UNI in the differentiating leaves and secondary inflorescences and thereby controlled their sizes and/or structures. It was also surmised that COCH and UNI (LFY homolog) occur together widely in stipulate flowering plants.
During their symbiotic interaction with rhizobia, legume plants develop symbiosis-specific organs on their roots, called nodules, that house nitrogen-fixing bacteria. The molecular mechanisms governing the identity and maintenance of these organs are unknown. Using Medicago truncatula nodule root (noot) mutants and pea (Pisum sativum) cochleata (coch) mutants, which are characterized by the abnormal development of roots from the nodule, we identified the NOOT and COCH genes as being necessary for the robust maintenance of nodule identity throughout the nodule developmental program. NOOT and COCH are Arabidopsis thaliana BLADE-ON-PETIOLE orthologs, and we have shown that their functions in leaf and flower development are conserved in M. truncatula and pea. The identification of these two genes defines a clade in the BTB/POZ-ankyrin domain proteins that shares conserved functions in eudicot organ development and suggests that NOOT and COCH were recruited to repress root identity in the legume symbiotic organ.
Pea plants (Pisum sativum cv. Swati) exposed to different concentration of cadmium (50,100, 200 microM Cd) under controlled glass house conditions were quantified for different physiological parameters and antioxidative enzymes. In pea plants, Cd produced a significant inhibition of growth and induced chlorosis, marginal yellowing and necrosis in young leaves, the effect being most pronounced at 200 microM Cd supply. An alteration in the activated oxygen metabolism of pea plants were also detected as evidenced by an increase in concentration of H2O2 and TBARS along with decrease in the chlorophyll and carotenoid concentration in leaves. Cadmium toxicity induced an increase in non-protein thiol, ascorbate, proline and cysteine concentration. A significant increment in the activity of SOD, APX and GR, and a decrease in CAT was observed as a result of Cd treatment. The enhanced activity of SOD and inhibition of CAT and POD produces a high build up of H2O2 which appears to be the main cause of oxidative stress due to Cd toxicity in pea plants.
Here, we report a subtilase gene (SBT1.1) specifically expressed in the endosperm of Medicago truncatula and Pisum sativum seeds during development, which is located at a chromosomal position coinciding with a seed weight quantitative trait locus (QTL). Association studies between SBT1.1 polymorphisms and seed weights in ecotype collections provided further evidence for linkage disequilibrium between the SBT1.1 locus and a seed weight locus. To investigate the possible contribution of SBT1.1 to the control of seed weight, a search for TILLING (Targeting Induced Local Lesions in Genomes) mutants was performed. An inspection of seed phenotype revealed a decreased weight and area of the sbt1.1 mutant seeds, thus inferring a role of SBT1.1 in the control of seed size in the forage and grain legume species. Microscopic analyses of the embryo, representing the major part of the seed, revealed a reduced number of cells in the MtP330S mutant, but no significant variation in cell size. SBT1.1 is therefore most likely to be involved in the control of cotyledon cell number, rather than cell expansion, during seed development. This raises the hypothesis of a role of SBT1.1 in the regulation of seed size by providing molecules that can act as signals to control cell division within the embryo.
The soybean aphid has significantly impacted soybean production in the U.S. Transcriptomic analyses were conducted for further insight into leads for potential novel management strategies. Transcriptomic data were generated from whole aphids and from 2,000 aphid guts using an Illumina GAII sequencer. The sequence data were assembled de novo using the Velvet assembler. In addition to providing a general overview, we demonstrate (i) the use of the Multiple-k/Multiple-C method for de novo assembly of short read sequences, followed by BLAST annotation of contigs for increased transcript identification: From 400,000 contigs analyzed, 16,257 non-redundant BLAST hits were identified; (ii) analysis of species distributions of top non-redundant hits: 80% of BLAST hits (minimum e-value of 1.0-E3) were to the pea aphid or other aphid species, representing about half of the pea aphid genes; (iii) comparison of relative depth of sequence coverage to relative transcript abundance for genes with high (membrane alanyl aminopeptidase N) or low transcript abundance; (iv) analysis of the Buchnera transcriptome: Transcripts from 57.6% of the genes from Buchnera aphidicola were identified; (v) identification of Arsenophonus and Wolbachia as potential secondary endosymbionts; (vi) alignment of full length sequences from RNA-seq data for the putative salivary gland protein C002, the silencing of which has potential for aphid management, and the putative Bacillus thuringiensis Cry toxin receptors, aminopeptidase N and alkaline phosphatase. THIS STUDY PROVIDES THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE DATA SET TO DATE FOR SOYBEAN APHID GENE EXPRESSION: This work also illustrates the utility of short-read transcriptome sequencing and the Multiple-k/Multiple-C method followed by BLAST annotation for rapid identification of target genes for organisms for which reference genome sequences are not available, and extends the utility to include the transcriptomes of endosymbionts.
Previous research showed that auxin, ethylene, and nitric oxide (NO) can activate the expression of iron (Fe)-acquisition genes in the roots of Strategy I plants grown with low levels of Fe, but not in plants grown with high levels of Fe. However, it is still an open question as to how Fe acts as an inhibitor and which pool of Fe (e.g., root, phloem, etc.) in the plant acts as the key regulator for gene expression control. To further clarify this, we studied the effect of the foliar application of Fe on the expression of Fe-acquisition genes in several Strategy I plants, including wild-type cultivars of Arabidopsis [Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh], pea [Pisum sativum L.], tomato [Solanum lycopersicon Mill.], and cucumber [Cucumis sativus L.], as well as mutants showing constitutive expression of Fe-acquisition genes when grown under Fe-sufficient conditions [Arabidopsis opt3-2 and frd3-3, pea dgl and brz, and tomato chln (chloronerva)]. The results showed that the foliar application of Fe blocked the expression of Fe-acquisition genes in the wild-type cultivars and in the frd3-3, brz, and chln mutants, but not in the opt3-2 and dgl mutants, probably affected in the transport of a Fe-related repressive signal in the phloem. Moreover, the addition of either ACC (ethylene precursor) or GSNO (NO donor) to Fe-deficient plants up-regulated the expression of Fe-acquisition genes, but this effect did not occur in Fe-deficient plants sprayed with foliar Fe, again suggesting the existence of a Fe-related repressive signal moving from leaves to roots.
Pathogenic fungi have always been a major problem in agriculture. One of the effective methods for controlling pathogen fungi to date is the introduction of resistance genes into the genome of crops. It is interesting to find out whether the induced resistance in crops will have a negative effect on non-target organisms such as root colonization with the AM fungi. The objective of the present research was to study the influence of producing antifungal molecules by four transgenic pea (Pisum sativum L.) lines expressing PGIP gene from raspberry, VST-stilbene synthase from vine, a hybrid of PGIP/VST and bacterial Chitinase gene (Chit30) from Streptomyces olivaceoviridis respectively on the colonization potential of Glomus intraradices. Four different experiments were done in greenhouse and climate chamber, colonization was observed in all replications. The following parameters were used for evaluation: frequency of mycorrhization, the intensity of mycorrhization, the average presence of arbuscules within the colonized areas and the presence of arbuscules in the whole root system which showed insignificant difference between transgenic and non-transgenic plants. The root/shoot ratio exhibited different values according to the experiment condition. Compared with negative non-transgenic control all transgenic lines showed the ability to establish symbiosis and the different growth parameters had insignificant effect due to mycorrhization. The results of the present study proved that the introduced pathogen resistance genes did not affect the mycorrhization allocations in pea.
Bowman-Birk inhibitors (BBI) from legumes, such as soyabean, pea, lentil and chickpea, are naturally occurring plant protease inhibitors which have potential health-promoting properties within the mammalian gastrointestinal tract. BBI can survive both acidic conditions and the action of proteolytic enzymes within the stomach and small intestine, permitting significant amounts to reach the large intestine in active form to exert their reported anti-carcinogenic and anti-inflammatory properties. In a previous study, we reported the ability of a recombinant form of TI1B (rTI1B), representing a major BBI isoinhibitor from pea, to influence negatively the growth of human colorectal adenocarcinoma HT29 cells in vitro. In the present study, we investigate if this effect is related directly to the intrinsic ability of BBI to inhibit serine proteases. rTI1B and a novel engineered mutant, having amino acid substitutions at the P1 positions in the two inhibitory domains, were expressed in the yeast Pichia pastoris. The rTI1B proved to be active against trypsin and chymotrypsin, showing K i values at nanomolar concentrations, whereas the related mutant protein was inactive against both serine proteases. The proliferation of HT29 colon cancer cells was significantly affected by rTI1B in a dose-dependent manner (IC50 = 31 (sd 7) μm), whereas the inactive mutant did not show any significant effect on colon cancer cell growth. In addition, neither recombinant protein affected the growth of non-malignant colonic fibroblast CCD-18Co cells. These findings suggest that serine proteases should be considered as important targets in investigating the potential chemopreventive role of BBI during the early stages of colorectal carcinogenesis.
Mechanisms of Fe-deficiency tolerance and signaling were investigated in shoots of Santi (deficiency tolerant) and Parafield (deficiency intolerant) pea genotypes using metabolomic and physiological approaches. From metabolomic studies, Fe deficiency induced significant increases in N-, S- and tricarboxylic acid cycle metabolites in Santi but not in Parafield. Elevated N metabolites reflect an increase in N-recycling processes. Increased glutathione and S-metabolites suggest better protection of pea plants from Fe-deficiency-induced oxidative stress. Furthermore, Fe-deficiency induced increases in citrate and malate in leaves of Santi suggests long-distance transport of Fe is promoted by better xylem unloading. Supporting a role of citrate in the deficiency tolerance mechanism, physiological experiments showed higher Fe and citrate in the xylem of Santi. Reciprocal-grafting experiments confirm that the Fe-deficiency signal driving root Fe reductase and proton extrusion activity is generated in the shoot. Finally, our studies show that auxin can induce increased Fe-reductase activity and proton extrusion in roots. This article identifies several mechanisms in shoots associated with the differential Fe-deficiency tolerance of genotypes within a species, and provides essential background for future efforts to improve the Fe content and deficiency tolerance in peas.
During organ development, many key regulators have been identified in plant genomes, which play a conserved role among plant species to control the organ identities and/or determine the organ size and shape. It is intriguing whether these key regulators can acquire diverse function and be integrated into different molecular pathways among different species, giving rise to the immense diversity of organ forms in nature. In this study, we have characterized and cloned LATHYROIDES (LATH), a classical locus in pea, whose mutation displays pleiotropic alteration of lateral growth of organs and predominant effects on tendril and dorsal petal development. LATH encodes a WUSCHEL-related homeobox1 (WOX1) transcription factor, which has a conserved function in determining organ lateral growth among different plant species. Furthermore, we showed that LATH regulated the expression level of TENDRIL-LESS (TL), a key factor in the control of tendril development in compound leaf, and LATH genetically interacted with LOBED STANDARD (LST), a floral dorsal factor, to affect the dorsal petal identity. Thus, LATH plays multiple roles during organ development in pea: it maintains a conserved function controlling organ lateral outgrowth, and modulates organ identities in compound leaf and zygomorphic flower development, respectively. Our data indicated that a key regulator can play important roles in different aspects of organ development and dedicate to the complexity of the molecular mechanism in the control of organ development so as to create distinct organ forms in different species.
In order to distinguish chilling and freezing tolerance mechanisms in pea, responses to cold exposure were compared between the freezing tolerant line Champagne and the sensitive line Terese. Global gene expression was considered in the two lines and associated with morphological, histological and biochemical approaches. The chilling tolerance in both lines was related to responses of the CBF, COR and LEA genes belonging to the CBF regulon, with greater earliness of expression in the Champagne genotype. The freezing tolerance, only observed in Champagne, was associated with acclimation processes such as cellular osmotic stabilization, photosynthesis modifications, antioxidants production, modifications in hormone metabolism, cell wall composition and dynamics.
The fabXL genes encode enzymes that synthesize the very-long-chain fatty acid - a unique acyl modification located at the 2' position of the lipid A of Gram-negative bacteria in the order Rhizobiales. Mutation of the fabXL genes causes sensitivity to outer membrane stressors and other envelope-related stresses; however, the underlying mechanisms for increased sensitivity are poorly understood. We found that expression of the outer membrane protein gene ropB is down-regulated in an acpXL mutant. Furthermore, constitutive expression of ropB in an acpXL or fabF2XL, fabF1XL mutant restores tolerance to detergents, hyperosmotic stress, and acidic pH. The fabF2XL, fabF1XL mutant also has a delayed nodulation phenotype, whereas a ropB mutant has no observable defects in nodulation, demonstrating that mutation of the fabXL genes results in pleiotropic phenotypes that can be classified as either ropB dependent or ropB independent. Ex-nodule isolates of the mutant strains display restored tolerance to detergents and hyperosmotic and acidic stress conditions; however, the rescued phenotypes are not owing to increased ropB expression. Finally, we found that the fabXL genes are induced by the sensor kinase ChvG in response to peptide-rich growth conditions, which is similar to the results reported for induction of ropB.
Independent transformed root somaclones (rhizoclones) of butterfly pea (Clitoria ternatea L.) were established using explant co-cultivation with Agrobacterium rhizogenes. Rhizoclones capable of sustained growth were maintained under low illumination in auxin-free agar-solidified MS medium through subcultures at periodic intervals. Integration of T(L)-DNA rolB gene in the transformed rhizoclone genome was verified by Southern blot hybridization, and the transcript expression of T(R)-DNA ags and man2 genes was ascertained by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis. The major compound isolated and purified from the transformed root extracts was identified as the pentacyclic triterpenoid compound taraxerol using IR, (1)H-NMR, and (13)C-NMR spectroscopy. The taraxerol yield in cultured hairy roots, as quantified by HPTLC analysis, was up to 4-fold on dry weight basis compared to that in natural roots. Scanning of bands from cultured transformed roots and natural roots gave super-imposable spectra with standard taraxerol, suggesting a remarkable homology in composition. To date, this is the first report claiming production of the cancer therapeutic phytochemical taraxerol in genetically transformed root cultures as a viable alternative to in vivo roots of naturally occurring plant species.
The helicases provide duplex unwinding function in an ATP-dependent manner and thereby play important role in almost all the nucleic acids transaction. Since stress reduces the protein synthesis by affecting the cellular gene expression machinery, so it is evident that molecules involved in nucleic acid processing including translation factors/helicases are likely to be affected. Earlier pea DNA helicase 45 (PDH45), a homolog of translation initiation factor 4A (eIF4A) was reported to play important role in salinity stress tolerance in tobacco and Bangladeshi rice variety Binnatoa. We report here the overexpression of PDH45 gene in the indica rice variety IR64, via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Molecular analysis of the transgenics revealed stable integration of the transgene in the T1 generation. Enhanced tolerance to salinity was observed in the plants transformed with PDH45 gene. Better physiological and yield performances including endogenous nutrient contents (N, P, K, Na) of the transgenics under salt treatment were observed as compared with wild type (WT), vector control and antisense transgenics. All these results indicated that the overexpression of PDH45 in the IR64 rice transgenics enable them to perform better with enhanced salinity stress tolerance and improved physiological traits. Based on the homology of PDH45 protein with eIF4A protein we suggest that it may act at the translational level to enhance or stabilize protein synthesis under stress conditions.
Spermatozoal membrane proteins are considered to possess several immunological unique characteristics as the cell is formed behind the blood-testes barriers. Major goat sperm maturation antigen (SMA2) contains one hexosamine along with mannose, galactose and glucose. In the present study, effects of deglycosylation of SMA2 antigen on immuno-reactivity and the serological activity was investigated. SMA2 glycoantigen showed positive immunoreactivity after treatment with sodium borohydride (NaBH(4)) and moreover this generated a 44 kDa protein band which was negative for periodic acid Schiff reagent. Trifluoromethanesulfonic acid (TFMS) caused aggregation and restricted the free mobility of the treated antigen on SDS-PAGE and the protein band generated by TFMS treatment also showed positive immuno-reactivity. The results supported the views that the protein portion retains its immuno-reactivity even after oxidation of the vicinal hydroxyl group of saccharide component of SMA2 antigen. These data suggest that immunodominent epitopes exist on the core protein by which the SMA2 antigen retains its immuno-reactivity even after disruption of the saccharide portion. Additional experiments demonstrate that protein epitopes have a role in capacitation and the acrosome reaction (AR) in presence of antibody which is raised against this protein part of SMA2 using the negative staining of FITC-PSA (fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled Pisum sativum agglutinin) probe. Altogether these findings indicate that the protein portion of SMA2 might fulfill the serological activity of the antigen as well as the protein epitope affects the acrosome reaction. In view of this property, we propose that the protein portion of SMA2 antigen might be considered as a potential antigenic target for an immune response.
Seed germination is an important stage in life cycle of higher plants. The germination processes and its associated loss of desiccation tolerance, however, are still poorly understood. In present study, pea seeds were used to study changes in embryonic axis proteome during germination by 2-DE and mass spectrometry. We identified a total of 139 protein spots showing a significant (>2-fold) change during germination. The results show that seed germination is not only the activation of a series of metabolic processes, but also involves reorganization of cellular structure and activation of protective systems. To uncouple the physiological processes of germination and its associated loss of desiccation tolerance, we used the fact that pea seeds have different desiccation tolerance when imbibed in water, CaCl(2) and methylviologen at the same germination stage. We compared the proteome amongst these seeds to identify the candidate proteins associated with the loss of desiccation tolerance and found a total of seven proteins - tubulin alpha-1 chain, seed biotin-containing protein SBP65, P54 protein, vicilin, vicilin-like antimicrobial peptides 2-3, convicilin and TCP-1/cpn60 chaperonin family protein. The metabolic function of these proteins indicates that seed desiccation tolerance is related to pathogen defense, protein conformation conservation and cell structure stabilization.
Thioredoxins (TRXs) f and m are key components in the light regulation of photosynthetic metabolism via thiol-dithiol modulation in chloroplasts of leaves; however, little is known about the factors modulating the expression of these proteins. To investigate the effect of sugars as photosynthetic products on the expression of PsTRX f and m1 genes, sucrose and glucose were externally supplied to pea plants during the day. There was an increase in the mRNA levels of PsTRX f and m1 genes in response mainly to glucose. When leaf discs were incubated for up to 4h in the dark, glucose also led to an increase in both mRNA and protein levels of TRXs f and m, while sucrose had no substantial effect. Expression of PsDOF7, a carbon metabolism-related transcription factor gene, was also induced by glucose. Protein-DNA interaction showed that PsDOF7 binds specifically to the DOF core located in PsTRX f and m1 gene promoters. Transient expression in agroinfiltrated pea leaves demonstrated that PsDOF7 activated transcription of both promoters. The incubation of leaf discs in dithiotreitol (DTT) to increase the redox status led to a marked increase in the mRNA and protein levels of both TRXs within 4h. The increase in TRX protein levels occurred after 1h DTT feeding, implying a rapid effect of the thiol status on TRX f and m1 protein turnover rates, while transcriptional regulation took 3h to proceed. These results show that the protein levels of both TRXs are under short-term control of the sugar and thiol status in plants.
Plant carotenoids play essential roles in photosynthesis, photoprotection, and as precursors to apocarotenoids. The plastid-localized carotenoid biosynthetic pathway is mediated by well-defined nucleus-encoded enzymes. However, there is a major gap in understanding the nature of protein interactions and pathway complexes needed to mediate carotenogenesis. In this study, we focused on carotene ring hydroxylation, which is performed by two structurally distinct classes of enzymes, the P450 CYP97A and CYP97C hydroxylases and the nonheme diiron HYD enzymes. The CYP97A and HYD enzymes both function in the hydroxylation of β-rings in carotenes, but we show that they are not functionally interchangeable. The formation of lutein, which involves hydroxylation of both β- and ε-rings, was shown to require the coexpression of CYP97A and CYP97C enzymes. These enzymes were also demonstrated to interact in vivo and in vitro, as determined using bimolecular fluorescence complementation and a pull-down assay, respectively. We discuss the role of specific hydroxylase enzyme interactions in promoting pathway flux and preventing the formation of pathway dead ends. These findings will facilitate efforts to manipulate carotenoid content and composition for improving plant adaptation to climate change and/or for enhancing nutritionally important carotenoids in food crops.
Use of plant ingredients in aquaculture feeds is impeded by high contents of antinutritional factors such as saponins, which may cause various pharmacological and biological effects. In this study, transcriptome changes were analyzed using a 21 k oligonucleotide microarray and qPCR in the distal intestine of Atlantic salmon fed diets based on five plant protein sources combined with soybean saponins. Diets with corn gluten, sunflower, rapeseed or horsebean produced minor effects while the combination of saponins with pea protein concentrate caused enteritis and major transcriptome changes. Acute inflammation was characterised by up-regulation of cytokines, NFkB and TNFalpha related genes and regulators of T-cell function, while the IFN-axis was suppressed. Induction of lectins, complement, metalloproteinases and the respiratory burst complex parallelled a down-regulation of genes for free radical scavengers and iron binding proteins. Marked down-regulation of xenobiotic metabolism was also observed, possibly increasing vulnerability of the intestinal tissue. A hallmark of metabolic changes was dramatic down-regulation of lipid, bile and steroid metabolism. Impairment of digestion was further suggested by expression changes of nutrient transporters and regulators of water balance (e.g. aquaporin, guanylin). On the other hand, microarray profiling revealed activation of multiple mucosal defence processes. Annexin-1, with important anti-inflammatory and gastroprotective properties, was markedly up-regulated. Furthermore, augmented synthesis of polyamines needed for cellular proliferation (up-regulation of arginase and ornithine decarboxylase) and increased mucus production (down-regulation of glycan turnover and goblet cell hyperplasia) could participate in mucosal healing and restoration of normal tissue function. The current study promoted understanding of salmon intestinal pathology and establishment of a model for feed induced enteritis. Multiple gene expression profiling further characterised the inflammation and described the intestinal pathology at the molecular level.
Membrane-embedded β-barrel proteins are found in the outer membranes (OM) of Gram-negative bacteria, mitochondria and chloroplasts. In eukaryotic cells, precursors of these proteins are synthesized in the cytosol and have to be sorted to their corresponding organelle. Currently, the signal that ensures their specific targeting to either mitochondria or chloroplasts is ill-defined. To address this issue, we studied targeting of the chloroplast β-barrel proteins Oep37 and Oep24. We found that both proteins can be integrated in vitro into isolated plant mitochondria. Furthermore, upon their expression in yeast cells Oep37 and Oep24 were exclusively located in the mitochondrial OM. Oep37 partially complemented the growth phenotype of yeast cells lacking Porin, the general metabolite transporter of this membrane. Similarly to mitochondrial β-barrel proteins, Oep37 and Oep24 expressed in yeast cells were assembled into the mitochondrial OM in a pathway dependent on the TOM and TOB complexes. Taken together, this study demonstrates that the central mitochondrial components that mediate the import of yeast β-barrel proteins can deal with precursors of chloroplast β-barrel proteins. This implies that the mitochondrial import machinery does not recognize signals that are unique to mitochondrial β-barrel proteins. Our results further suggest that dedicated targeting factors had to evolve in plant cells to prevent mis-sorting of chloroplast β-barrel proteins to mitochondria.
Enzymatic antioxidant system plays an important role in maintaining seed vigor and regulating plant growth and development. It involves a number of enzymes that scavenge excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced during seed aging and also modulate the level of these compounds during plant developmental processes. This study investigated the transcriptional regulation of enzymatic antioxidative capacity in pea during the pre- and post-germinative phases and in response to seed aging by analyzing the spatio-temporal expression of five antioxidative genes: PsAPX, PsSOD, PsGRcyt, PsGRcm and PsCAT. Transcripts of all these genes were found in mature dry seeds, embryo axes and cotyledons of germinating seeds, and cotyledons, roots and shoots of young seedlings. However, PsAPX and PsSOD were predominant and exhibited developmental regulation, suggesting that these genes play important roles in controlling the intracellular homeostasis of ROS for promoting cell elongation, and thereby embryo axis expansion and early seedling growth in pea. Accelerated aging of pea seeds led to reduction in seed viability and seedling growth, and this effect was correlated with substantial decrease in the transcriptional activation of the prominent antioxidative genes. Furthermore, our proteomic analysis indicated the association of seed aging with changes in the abundance of specific proteins, revealing additional mechanisms underlying seed aging in pea.
Initially known for their role in the rhizosphere in stimulating the seed germination of parasitic weeds such as the Striga and Orobanche species, and later as host recognition signals for arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, strigolactones (SLs) were recently rediscovered as a new class of plant hormones involved in the control of shoot branching in plants. Herein, we report the synthesis of new SL analogs and, to our knowledge, the first study of SL structure-activity relationships for their hormonal activity in garden pea (Pisum sativum). Comparisons with their action for the germination of broomrape (Phelipanche ramosa) are also presented. The pea rms1 SL-deficient mutant was used in a SL bioassay based on axillary bud length after direct SL application on the bud. This assay was compared with an assay where SLs were fed via the roots using hydroponics and with a molecular assay in which transcript levels of BRANCHED1, the pea homolog of the maize TEOSINTE BRANCHED1 gene were quantified in axillary buds only 6 h after application of SLs. We have demonstrated that the presence of a Michael acceptor and a methylbutenolide or dimethylbutenolide motif in the same molecule is essential. It was established that the more active analog 23 with a dimethylbutenolide as the D-ring could be used to control the plant architecture without strongly favoring the germination of P. ramosa seeds. Bold numerals refer to numbers of compounds.
This work demonstrates the phytotoxicity screening of composted herbal pharmaceutical industry waste (HPIW) using seed bioassay method. The composted industrial waste should be tested at lab scale prior to recommendation for land application. HPIW was mixed with soil to produce four treatments: T(1) (1:1), T(2) (1:2), T(3) (1:3), and T(4) (1:0) for toxicity screening using Pisum sativum seeds. After 72 h relative seed germination (RSG), relative root growth (RRG) and germination index (GI) were recorded. Seedlings were observed for further plant growth and tissue biochemistry (chlorophyll, soluble sugar, starch, carotenoid, and protein) estimation. RSG, RRG, and GI values were better in T(1) and T(2) than others. GI was in the ranges of 36.62 % (T(4)) to 170.38 % (T(2)). The seedling growth and biochemical parameters were better in seedling obtained from potting media containing low proportion of HPIW (i.e., T(1) and T(2)). Results clearly suggested that composted HPIW may be utilized effectively for crop production after dilution under sustainable farming system program.
Raffinose family oligosaccharides (RFOs) in food are considered anti-nutritional factors. This study elucidated the role of α-galactosidase (α-Gal), levansucrase, and sucrose phosphorylase for conversion of RFOs by lactobacilli. Quantification of gene expression by reverse-transcriptase quantitative PCR revealed that expression of levansucrase and sucrose phosphorylase by Lactobacillus reuteri is increased more than 100 fold when sucrose or raffinose are available. Fava bean (Vicia faba) or field pea (Pisum sativum) flours were fermented with α-Gal positive L. reuteri or α-Gal negative Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis. Isogenic strains lacking levansucrase activity, a L. reuteri ftfA mutant and a L. sanfranciscensis levS mutant, were used for comparison. During growth in pulse flours, L. sanfranciscensis accumulated melibiose and α-galactooligosaccharides (α-GOSs); the levansucrase-negative strain did not grow. L. reuteri metabolized raffinose, stachyose, and verbascose by levansucrase activity and accumulated α-GOSs as metabolic intermediates. Oligosaccharide metabolism in the levansucrase-negative mutant was slower, and accumulation of α-GOSs was not observed. The use of sorghum sourdough fermented with L. reuteri LTH5448 and bean flour in gluten-free baking converted RFOs to α-GOSs by levansucrase and invertase activities. In conclusion, the elucidation of the role levansucrase in RFO metabolism by lactobacilli allowed the conversion or hydrolysis of RFOs in food fermentations.
Seeds of several agriculturally important legumes are rich sources of the only halogenated plant hormone, 4-chloroindole-3-acetic acid. However, the biosynthesis of this auxin is poorly understood. Here, we show that in pea (Pisum sativum) seeds, 4-chloroindole-3-acetic acid is synthesized via the novel intermediate 4-chloroindole-3-pyruvic acid, which is produced from 4-chlorotryptophan by two aminotransferases, TRYPTOPHAN AMINOTRANSFERASE RELATED1 and TRYPTOPHAN AMINOTRANSFERASE RELATED2. We characterize a tar2 mutant, obtained by Targeting Induced Local Lesions in Genomes, the seeds of which contain dramatically reduced 4-chloroindole-3-acetic acid levels as they mature. We also show that the widespread auxin, indole-3-acetic acid, is synthesized by a parallel pathway in pea.
Unravelling the basis of variation in inflorescence architecture is important to understanding how the huge diversity in plant form has been generated. Inflorescences are divided between simple, as in Arabidopsis, with flowers directly formed at the main primary inflorescence axis, and compound, as in legumes, where they are formed at secondary or even higher order axes. The formation of secondary inflorescences predicts a novel genetic function in the development of the compound inflorescences. Here we show that in pea this function is controlled by VEGETATIVE1 (VEG1), whose mutation replaces secondary inflorescences by vegetative branches. We identify VEG1 as an AGL79-like MADS-box gene that specifies secondary inflorescence meristem identity. VEG1 misexpression in meristem identity mutants causes ectopic secondary inflorescence formation, suggesting a model for compound inflorescence development based on antagonistic interactions between VEG1 and genes conferring primary inflorescence and floral identity. Our study defines a novel mechanism to generate inflorescence complexity.
Plastid thioredoxins (TRXs) f and m have long been considered to regulate almost exclusively photosynthesis-related processes. Nonetheless, some years ago, we found that type-f and m TRXs were also present in non-photosynthetic organs such as roots and flowers of adult pea plants. In the present work, using pea seedlings 2-5 days old, we have determined the mRNA expression profile of the plastid PsTRX f, m1, and m2, together with the ferredoxin NADP reductase (FNR). Our results show that these TRX isoforms are expressed in cotyledons, underlying similar expression levels in roots for PsTRX m2. We have also noted plastid TRX expression in cotyledons of etiolated seedlings of Arabidopsis thaliana lines carrying constructs corresponding to PsTRX f and m1 promoters fused to the reporter gene GUS, pointing to a role in reserve mobilization. Furthermore, the response of plastid TRXs to NaCl and their capacity in restoring the growth of a TRX-deficient yeast under saline conditions suggest a role in the tolerance to salinity. We propose that these redox enzymes take part of the reserve mobilization in seedling cotyledons and we suggest additional physiological functions of PsTRX m2 in roots and PsTRX m1 in the salinity-stress response during germination.
About a quarter of angiosperm species are stipulate. They produce stipule pairs at stem nodes in association with leaves. Stipule morphology is treated as a species-specific characteristic. Many species bear stipules as laminated organs in a variety of configurations, including laterally free large foliaceous, small, or wholly leaf-like stipules, and as fused intrapetiolar, opposite, ochreate or interpetiolar stipules. In Pisum sativum, the wild-type and stipule-reduced and cochleata mutants are known to form free large, small, and leaf-like stipules, respectively. Auxin controls initiation and development of plant organs and perturbations in its availability and distribution in the meristems, caused by auxin transport inhibitor(s) (ATIs), lead to aberrations in leaf development. The effect(s) of ATI(s) on stipule development are unexplored. To study the effect of the ATI 1-N-naphthylphthalamic acid (NPA) on stipule morphogenesis, P. sativum explants were grown in vitro in presence of a sublethal concentration of NPA. The NPA-treated shoots produced fused stipules of all the different types described in angiosperms. The observations indicate that (a) the gene sets for stipule differentiation may be common in angiosperms and (b) the interspecies stipule architectural differences are due to mutations, affecting gene expression or activity that got selected in the course of evolution.
The chloroplast thioredoxins (TRXs) function as messengers of redox signals from ferredoxin to target enzymes. In this work, we studied the regulatory impact of pea (Pisum sativum) TRX-F on the magnesium (Mg) chelatase CHLI subunit and the enzymatic activation of Mg chelatase in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, reduced TRX-F activated the ATPase activity of pea CHLI and enhanced the activity of Mg chelatase reconstituted from the three recombinant subunits CHLI, CHLD, and CHLH in combination with the regulator protein GENOMES UNCOUPLED4 (GUN4). Yeast two-hybrid and bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays demonstrated that TRX-F physically interacts with CHLI but not with either of the other two subunits or GUN4. In vivo, virus-induced TRX-F gene silencing (VIGS-TRX-F) in pea plants did not result in an altered redox state of CHLI. However, simultaneous silencing of the pea TRX-F and TRX-M genes (VIGS-TRX-F/TRX-M) resulted in partially and fully oxidized CHLI in vivo. VIGS-TRX-F/TRX-M plants demonstrated a significant reduction in Mg chelatase activity and 5-aminolevulinic acid synthesizing capacity as well as reduced pigment content and lower photosynthetic capacity. These results suggest that, in vivo, TRX-M can compensate for a lack of TRX-F and that both TRXs act as important redox regulators of Mg chelatase. Furthermore, the silencing of TRX-F and TRX-M expression also affects gene expression in the tetrapyrrole biosynthesis pathway and leads to the accumulation of reactive oxygen species, which may also serve as an additional signal for the transcriptional regulation of photosynthesis-associated nuclear genes.
Field pea (Pisum sativum L.) and faba bean (Vicia faba L.) are cool-season grain legume species that provide rich sources of food for humans and fodder for livestock. To date, both species have been relative 'genomic orphans' due to limited availability of genetic and genomic information. A significant enrichment of genomic resources is consequently required in order to understand the genetic architecture of important agronomic traits, and to support germplasm enhancement, genetic diversity, population structure and demographic studies. cDNA samples obtained from various tissue types of specific field pea and faba bean genotypes were sequenced using 454 Roche GS FLX Titanium technology. A total of 720,324 and 304,680 reads for field pea and faba bean, respectively, were de novo assembled to generate sets of 70,682 and 60,440 unigenes. Consensus sequences were compared against the genome of the model legume species Medicago truncatula Gaertn., as well as that of the more distantly related, but better-characterised genome of Arabidopsis thaliana L.. In comparison to M. truncatula coding sequences, 11,737 and 10,179 unique hits were obtained from field pea and faba bean. Totals of 22,057 field pea and 18,052 faba bean unigenes were subsequently annotated from GenBank. Comparison to the genome of soybean (Glycine max L.) resulted in 19,451 unique hits for field pea and 16,497 unique hits for faba bean, corresponding to c. 35% and 30% of the known gene space, respectively. Simple sequence repeat (SSR)-containing expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were identified from consensus sequences, and totals of 2,397 and 802 primer pairs were designed for field pea and faba bean. Subsets of 96 EST-SSR markers were screened for validation across modest panels of field pea and faba bean cultivars, as well as related non-domesticated species. For field pea, 86 primer pairs successfully obtained amplification products from one or more template genotypes, of which 59% revealed polymorphism between 6 genotypes. In the case of faba bean, 81 primer pairs displayed successful amplification, of which 48% detected polymorphism. The generation of EST datasets for field pea and faba bean has permitted effective unigene identification and functional sequence annotation. EST-SSR loci were detected at incidences of 14-17%, permitting design of comprehensive sets of primer pairs. The subsets from these primer pairs proved highly useful for polymorphism detection within Pisum and Vicia germplasm.
Many plant viruses encode suppressors of RNA silencing, including the helper component-proteinase (HC-Pro) of potyviruses. Our previous studies showed that a D-to-Y mutation at amino acid position 193 in HC-Pro (HC-Pro-D193Y) drastically attenuated the virulence of clover yellow vein virus (ClYVV) in legume plants. Furthermore, RNA-silencing suppression (RSS) activity of HC-Pro-D193Y was significantly reduced in Nicotiana benthamiana. Here, we examine the effect of expression of heterologous suppressors of RNA silencing, i.e., tomato bushy stunt virus p19, cucumber mosaic virus 2b, and their mutants, on the virulence of the ClYVV point mutant with D193Y (Cl-D193Y) in pea. P19 and 2b fully and partially complemented Cl-D193Y multiplication and virulence, including lethal systemic HR in pea, respectively, but the P19 and 2b mutants with defects in their RSS activity did not. Our findings strongly suggest that the D193Y mutation exclusively affects RSS activity of HC-Pro and that RSS activity is necessary for ClYVV multiplication and virulence in pea.
Three major strains of the Plum pox virus (PPV) are the most important in Europe: PPV-D, PPV-M, and PPV-Rec. By combining the genomes of two different strains of PPV (PPV-D with PPV-Rec; PPV-D with PPV-M), 20 inter-strain chimeric infectious clones (CICPPV) were constructed. Biological properties of CICPPV were tested by inoculating them on different herbaceous host species susceptible to PPV. Four of the seven species tested, exhibited visible symptoms. In Nicotiana benthamiana all CICPPV induced systemic mosaic and leaf malformation. Pisum sativum showed a broad range of symptom severity (systemic chlorotic and necrotic lesions) but neither qualitative nor quantitative aspects of symptomatology were related to a single PPV genome locus. Nicotiana occidentalis and Nicandra physaloides proved to be suitable for symptom-based differentiation. Depending on the virus strain/chimera, N. occidentalis showed two types of symptoms: mild systemic chlorotic spots or local necrotic lesions/systemic vein necroses. N. physaloides reacted to the PPV infection either symptomless or by local necrotic lesions. Our results demonstrated that the P1/HC-pro region of the PPV genome appears to be the determinant of the symptom manifestation in these host plants. In silico analysis mapped it to the 3'-proximal part of the P1 gene.
Plasmid curing has shown that the ability to use glycerol as a carbon source is plasmid-encoded in Rhizobium leguminosarum. We isolated the locus responsible for glycerol utilization from plasmid pRleVF39c in R. leguminosarum bv. viciae VF39. This region was analyzed by DNA sequencing and mutagenesis. The locus encompasses a gene encoding GlpR (a DeoR regulator), genes encoding an ABC transporter, and genes glpK and glpD, encoding a kinase and dehydrogenase, respectively. All the genes except the regulatory gene glpR were organized into a single operon, and were required for growth on glycerol. The glp operon was strongly induced by both glycerol and glycerol 3-phosphate, as well as by pea seed exudate. GlpR repressed the operon in the absence of inducer. Mutation of genes encoding the ABC transporter abolished all transport of glycerol in transport assays using radiolabelled glycerol. This confirms that, unlike in other organisms such as Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which use facilitated diffusion, glycerol uptake occurs by an active process in R. leguminosarum. Since the glp locus is highly conserved in all sequenced R. leguminosarum and Rhizobium etli strains, as well as in Sinorhizobium spp. and Agrobacterium spp. and other alphaproteobacteria, this process for glycerol uptake is probably widespread. Mutants unable to use glycerol were deficient in competitiveness for nodulation of peas compared with the wild-type, suggesting that glycerol catabolism confers an advantage upon the bacterium in the rhizosphere or in the infection thread.
R50 (sym16) is a pea nodulation mutant that accumulates cytokinin (CK) in its vegetative organs. Total CK content increases as the plant ages because of the low activity of the enzyme cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase (CKX) responsible for CK degradation. R50 exhibits a large seed with high relative water content, and its seedling establishes itself slowly. Whether these two traits are linked to abnormal CK levels was considered here. R50 was found to have a similar germination rate but a much slower epicotyl emergence than Sparkle, its wild-type (WT). At the onset of emergence, the starch grains in R50 cotyledons were larger than those of WT; furthermore, they did not degrade as fast as in WT because of low amylase activity. No differences between the pea lines were observed in the CK forms identified during seed embryogenesis. However, while CK content compared to that of WT was reduced early in R50 embryogenesis, it was elevated later on in its dry seeds where CKX activity was low, although CKX transcript abundance remained high. Transcripts of the two known PsCKX isoforms exhibited tissue- and development-specific profiles with no detectable PsCKX2 expression in cotyledons. There were more of both transcripts in R50 roots than in WT roots, but less of PsCKX2 than PsCKX1 in R50 shoots compared to WT shoots. Thus, although there is a definite CKX post-transcriptional defect in R50 dry seeds, an abnormal CK homeostasis is not the basis of the delay in R50 seedling establishment, which we linked to abnormal amylase activity early in development.
Dickeya dadantii (syn. Erwinia chrysanthemi) is a plant pathogenic bacteria that harbours a cluster of four horizontally-transferred, insect-specific toxin genes. It was recently shown to be capable of causing an acute infection in the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum (Insecta: Hemiptera). The infection route of the pathogen, and the role and in vivo expression pattern of these toxins, remain unknown. Using bacterial numeration and immunolocalization, we investigated the kinetics and the pattern of infection of this phytopathogenic bacterium within its insect host. We compared infection by the wild-type strain and by the Cyt toxin-deficient mutant. D. dadantii was found to form dense clusters in many luminal parts of the aphid intestinal tract, including the stomach, from which it invaded internal tissues as early as day 1 post-infection. Septicemia occurred soon after, with the fat body being the main infected tissue, together with numerous early infections of the embryonic chains showing embryonic gut and fat body as the target organs. Generalized septicemia led to insect death when the bacterial load reached about 10(8) cfu. Some individual aphids regularly escaped infection, indicating an effective partial immune response to this bacteria. Cyt-defective mutants killed insects more slowly but were capable of localisation in any type of tissue. Cyt toxin expression appeared to be restricted to the digestive tract where it probably assisted in crossing over the first cell barrier and, thus, accelerating bacterial diffusion into the aphid haemocel. Finally, the presence of bacteria on the surface of leaves hosting infected aphids indicated that the insects could be vectors of the bacteria.
In legumes, the symbiotic nodules are formed as a result of dedifferentiation and reactivation of cortical root cells. A shoot-acting receptor complex, similar to the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) CLAVATA1 (CLV1)/CLV2 receptor, regulating development of the shoot apical meristem, is involved in autoregulation of nodulation (AON), a mechanism that systemically controls nodule number. The targets of CLV1/CLV2 in the shoot apical meristem, the WUSCHEL (WUS)-RELATED HOMEOBOX (WOX) family transcription factors, have been proposed to be important regulators of apical meristem maintenance and to be expressed in apical meristem "organizers." Here, we focus on the role of the WOX5 transcription factor upon nodulation in Medicago truncatula and pea (Pisum sativum) that form indeterminate nodules. Analysis of temporal WOX5 expression during nodulation with quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and promoter-reporter fusion revealed that the WOX5 gene was expressed during nodule organogenesis, suggesting that WOX genes are common regulators of cell proliferation in different systems. Furthermore, in nodules of supernodulating mutants, defective in AON, WOX5 expression was higher than that in wild-type nodules. Hence, a conserved WUS/WOX-CLV regulatory system might control cell proliferation and differentiation not only in the root and shoot apical meristems but also in nodule meristems. In addition, the link between nodule-derived CLE peptides activating AON in different legumes and components of the AON system was investigated. We demonstrate that the identified AON component, NODULATION3 of pea, might act downstream from or beside the CLE peptides during AON.
Iron (Fe)-deficiency is a common abiotic stress in Pisum sativum L. grown in many parts of the world. The aim of the study was to investigate variation in tolerance to Fe deficiency in two pea genotypes, Santi (Fe-efficient) and Parafield (Fe-inefficient). Fe deficiency caused greater declines in chlorophyll score, leaf Fe concentration and root-shoot development in Parafield compared to Santi, suggesting greater Fe-efficiency in Santi. Fe chelate reductase activity and ethylene production were increased in the roots of Santi and to a lesser extent in Parafield under Fe deficiency, while proton extrusion was only occurred in Santi. Moreover, expression of the Fe chelate reductase gene, FRO1, and Fe transporter, RIT1 were upregulated in Fe-deficient roots of Santi. Expression of HA1 (proton extrusion) was also significantly higher in Santi when compared to Parafield grown in Fe-deficient conditions. Furthermore, the application of the ethylene biosynthesis inhibitor, 1-aminoisobutyric acid reduced the Fe chelate reductase activity, supporting a direct role for ethylene in its induction. A significant increase in root citrate was only observed in Santi under Fe deficiency indicating a role for citrate in the Fe-efficiency mechanism. Taken together, our physiological and molecular data indicate that genotypic variation in tolerance to Fe deficiency in Santi and Parafield plants is a result of variation in a number of Strategy I mechanisms and also suggest a direct role for ethylene in Fe reductase activity. The pea cultivar, Santi provides a new source of Fe-efficiency that can be exploited to breed more Fe-efficient peas.
Metallothioneins (MT) play an important role in heavy metal detoxification and homeostasis of intracellular metal ions in plant. In this study, two transgenic lines expressing MT type 2 gene (PsMT(A1)) from Pisum sativum, a regenerated non transformed line NT and clone AL22, selected as heavy metal tolerant, were characterized in presence of the heavy metals for the ability to accumulate zinc and copper and to activate antioxidative enzyme defences: superoxide dismutase, catalase, ascorbate peroxidase. The levels of expression of MT type 2 gene assessed by RT-qPCR confirmed the gene over-expression in transgenic lines and evidenced in NT and AL22 the up-regulation of gene transcription by zinc and copper. Transgenic poplar lines during heavy metal stress displayed increased ability to translocate and accumulate zinc and copper compared with NT and AL22. The antioxidant enzyme defence was differently activated in response to metals in the transgenic lines without a significant increase of ROS. These results suggested that PsMT(A1) could play a role in ROS scavenging leading to enhanced metal tolerance and increased zinc and copper sequestration in root and leaf.
Two-component signal transduction systems (TCS) are a main strategy used by bacteria to sense and adapt to changes in their environment. In the legume symbiont Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viciae VF39, mutation of chvG, a histidine kinase, caused a number of pleiotropic phenotypes. ChvG mutants are unable to grow on proline, glutamate, histidine, or arginine as the sole carbon source. The chvG mutant secreted smaller amounts of acidic and neutral surface polysaccharides and accumulated abnormally large amounts of poly-ß-hydroxybutyrate. Mutation of chvG caused symbiotic defects on peas, lentils, and vetch; nodules formed by the chvG mutant were small and white and contained only a few cells that had failed to differentiate into bacteroids. Mutation of chvG also destabilized the outer membrane of R. leguminosarum, resulting in increased sensitivity to membrane stressors. Constitutive expression of ropB, the outer membrane protein-encoding gene, restored membrane stability and rescued the sensitivity phenotypes described above. Similar phenotypes have been described for mutations in other ChvG-regulated genes encoding a conserved operon of unknown function and in the fabXL genes required for synthesis of the lipid A very-long-chain fatty acid, suggesting that ChvG is a key component of the envelope stress response in Rhizobium leguminosarum. Collectively, the results of this study demonstrate the important and unique role the ChvG/ChvI TCS plays in the physiology, metabolism, and symbiotic competency of R. leguminosarum.
Previously, the OEP16.1 channel pore in the outer envelope membrane of mature pea (Pisum sativum) chloroplasts in vitro has been characterized to be selective for amino acids. Isolation of OEP16.2, a second OEP16 isoform from pea, in the current study allowed membrane localization and gene expression of OEP16 to be followed throughout seed development and germination of Arabidopsis thaliana and P. sativum. Thereby it can be shown on the transcript and protein level that the isoforms OEP16.1 and OEP16.2 in both plant species are alternating: whereas OEP16.1 is prominent in early embryo development and first leaves of the growing plantlet, OEP16.2 dominates in late seed development stages, which are associated with dormancy and desiccation, as well as early germination events. Further, OEP16.2 expression in seeds is under control of the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA), leading to an ABA-hypersensitive phenotype of germinating oep16 knockout mutants. In consequence, the loss of OEP16 causes metabolic imbalance, in particular that of amino acids during seed development and early germination. It is thus concluded that in vivo OEP16 most probably functions in shuttling amino acids across the outer envelope of seed plastids.
Pyrabactin, a synthetic agonist of abscisic acid (ABA), inhibits seed germination and hypocotyl growth and stimulates gene expression in a very similar way to ABA, implying the possible modulation of stomatal function by pyrabactin as well. The effect of pyrabactin on stomatal closure and secondary messengers was therefore studied in guard cells of Pisum sativum abaxial epidermis. Pyrabactin caused marked stomatal closure in a pattern similar to ABA. In addition, pyrabactin elevated the levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), nitric oxide (NO), and cytoplasmic pH levels in guard cells, as indicated by the respective fluorophores. However, apyrabactin, an inactive analogue of ABA, did not affect either stomatal closure or the signalling components of guard cells. The effects of pyrabactin-induced changes were reversed by pharmalogical compounds that modulate ROS, NO or cytoplasmic pH levels, quite similar to ABA effects. Fusicoccin, a fungal toxin, could reverse the stomatal closure caused by pyrabactin, as well as that caused by ABA. Experiments on stomatal closure by varying concentrations of ABA, in the presence of fixed concentration of pyrabactin, and vice versa, revealed that the actions of ABA and pyrabactin were additive. Further kinetic analysis of data revealed that the apparent K(D) of ABA was increased almost 4-fold in the presence of ABA, suggesting that pyrabactin and ABA were competing with each other either at the same site or close to the active site. It is proposed that pyrabactin could be used to examine the ABA-related signal-transduction components in stomatal guard cells as well as in other plant tissues. It is also suggested that pyrabactin can be used as an antitranspirant or as a priming agent for improving the drought tolerance of crop plants.
Based on its high protein content and excellent storage capacity, pea (Pisum sativum), as well as other plants, is considered to be a suitable production platform for protein-based pharmaceuticals. Its capacity to produce high proportions of active recombinant proteins (up to 2% total soluble protein corresponding to approximately 8 mg/g fresh weight) has been proven using pea-derived strong seed-specific promoters. The active antigens produced were also stable for more than 4 years. Pea can be used as a feed additive, up to a proportion of 30% to total feed, despite the presence of lectins. Thus, a low dosage of recombinant pea-based pharmaceuticals is non-hazardous. In addition, it is independent of N-fertilisation, has excellent biosafety characteristics and is accessible to gene transfer. Growth systems with a capacity for high yield are available for the greenhouse (5 t/ha) and, to a limited extent, also in the field (2.3 t/ha). The practicable establishment of pea seed banks allows a continuous production process. Although the use of a pea system is limited by complex transformation procedures, these advantages render pea a promising plant for the production of pharmaceuticals.
The function of PsBRC1, the pea (Pisum sativum) homolog of the maize (Zea mays) TEOSINTE BRANCHED1 and the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) BRANCHED1 (AtBRC1) genes, was investigated. The pea Psbrc1 mutant displays an increased shoot-branching phenotype, is able to synthesize strigolactone (SL), and does not respond to SL application. The level of pleiotropy of the SL-deficient ramosus1 (rms1) mutant is higher than in the Psbrc1 mutant, rms1 exhibiting a relatively dwarf phenotype and more extensive branching at upper nodes. The PsBRC1 gene is mostly expressed in the axillary bud and is transcriptionally up-regulated by direct application of the synthetic SL GR24 and down-regulated by the cytokinin (CK) 6-benzylaminopurine. The results suggest that PsBRC1 may have a role in integrating SL and CK signals and that SLs act directly within the bud to regulate its outgrowth. However, the Psbrc1 mutant responds to 6-benzylaminopurine application and decapitation by increasing axillary bud length, implicating a PsBRC1-independent component of the CK response in sustained bud growth. In contrast to other SL-related mutants, the Psbrc1 mutation does not cause a decrease in the CK zeatin riboside in the xylem sap or a strong increase in RMS1 transcript levels, suggesting that the RMS2-dependent feedback is not activated in this mutant. Surprisingly, the double rms1 Psbrc1 mutant displays a strong increase in numbers of branches at cotyledonary nodes, whereas branching at upper nodes is not significantly higher than the branching in rms1. This phenotype indicates a localized regulation of branching at these nodes specific to pea.
Cytokinin (CK) has long been implicated as a promoter of bud outgrowth in plants, but exactly how this is achieved in coordination with other plant hormones is unclear. The recent discovery of strigolactones (SLs) as the long-sought branch-inhibiting hormone allowed us to test how CK and SL coordinately regulate bud outgrowth in pea (Pisum sativum). We found that SL-deficient plants are more sensitive to stimulation of bud growth by low concentrations of locally applied CK than wild-type plants. Furthermore, in contrast with SL mutant plants, buds of wild-type plants are almost completely resistant to stimulation by CK supplied to the vasculature. Regardless of whether the exogenous hormones were supplied locally or to the xylem stream, SL and CK acted antagonistically on bud outgrowth. These data suggest that SLs do not affect the delivery of CK to axillary buds and vice versa. Rather, these data combined with dose-response experiments suggest that SLs and CK can act directly in buds to control their outgrowth. These hormones may converge at a common point in the bud outgrowth regulatory pathway. The expression of pea BRANCHED1, a TCP transcription factor expressed strongly in buds and thought to act downstream of SLs in shoot branching, is regulated by CK and SL without a requirement for protein synthesis and in a manner that correlates with observed bud growth responses.
The rhizosphere is the microbe-rich zone around plant roots and is a key determinant of the biosphere's productivity. Comparative transcriptomics was used to investigate general and plant-specific adaptations during rhizosphere colonization. Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viciae was grown in the rhizospheres of pea (its legume nodulation host), alfalfa (a non-host legume) and sugar beet (non-legume). Gene expression data were compared to metabolic and transportome maps to understand adaptation to the rhizosphere. Carbon metabolism was dominated by organic acids, with a strong bias towards aromatic amino acids, C1 and C2 compounds. This was confirmed by induction of the glyoxylate cycle required for C2 metabolism and gluconeogenesis in all rhizospheres. Gluconeogenesis is repressed in R. leguminosarum by sugars, suggesting that although numerous sugar and putative complex carbohydrate transport systems are induced in the rhizosphere, they are less important carbon sources than organic acids. A common core of rhizosphere-induced genes was identified, of which 66% are of unknown function. Many genes were induced in the rhizosphere of the legumes, but not sugar beet, and several were plant specific. The plasmid pRL8 can be considered pea rhizosphere specific, enabling adaptation of R. leguminosarum to its host. Mutation of many of the up-regulated genes reduced competitiveness for pea rhizosphere colonization, while two genes specifically up-regulated in the pea rhizosphere reduced colonization of the pea but not alfalfa rhizosphere. Comparative transcriptome analysis has enabled differentiation between factors conserved across plants for rhizosphere colonization as well as identification of exquisite specific adaptation to host plants.
ARF1 (ADP-ribosylation factor 1) and SAR1 (secretion-associated RAS super family) are involved in the formation and budding of vesicles throughout plant endomembrane systems. The molecular mechanisms of this transport have been studied extensively in mammalian and yeast cells. However, very little is known about the mechanisms of coat protein complex (COP) formation and recruitment of COP-vesicle cargoes in plants. To provide insights into vesicular trafficking in Pisum sativum L., we investigated mRNA and protein expression patterns of ARF1 and SAR1 in roots and shoots at early growth stages and in the de-etiolation process. We showed that ARF1 was concentrated mostly in the crude Golgi fractions, and SAR1 was concentrated predominantly in the crude ER fractions of de-etiolated shoots. ARF1 and SAR1 proteins were several times more abundant in shoots relative to roots. In total protein homogenates, the expression level of SAR1 and ARF1 was higher in shoots of dark-grown pea plants than light-grown plants. In contrast, ARF1 was higher in roots of light-grown pea relative to roots of dark-grown pea. With ageing, the ARF1 mRNA in roots was reduced, while SAR1 expression increased. Unlike ARF1 transcripts, ARF1 protein levels did not fluctuate significantly in root and shoot tissue during early development. The relative abundance of SAR1 protein in root tissues may suggest a high level of vesicular transport from the ER to the Golgi. Experimental results suggested that white light probably affects the regulation of ARF1 and SAR1 protein levels. On the other hand, short-term white light affects SAR1 but not ARF1.
We studied the effect of salicylic acid (SA) treatment on the response of pea plants to salinity. Sodium chloride (NaCl)-induced damage to leaves was increased by SA, which was correlated with a reduction in plant growth. The content of reduced ascorbate and glutathione in leaves of salt-treated plants increased in response to SA, although accumulation of the respective oxidised forms occurred. An increase in hydrogen peroxide also occurred in leaves of salt-exposed plants treated with SA. In the absence of NaCl, SA increased ascorbate peroxidase (APX; 100 μm) and glutathione-S transferase (GST; 50 μm) activities and increased catalase (CAT) activity in a concentration-dependent manner. Salinity decreased glutathione reductase (GR) activity, but increased GST and CAT activity. In salt-stressed plants, SA also produced changes in antioxidative enzymes: 100 μm SA decreased APX but increased GST. Finally, a concentration-dependent increase in superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was induced by SA treatment in salt-stressed plants. Induction of PR-1b was observed in NaCl-stressed plants treated with SA. The treatment with SA, as well as the interaction between salinity and SA treatment, had a significant effect on PsMAPK3 expression. The expression of PsMAPK3 was not altered by 70 mm NaCl, but was statistically higher in the absence than in the presence of SA. Overall, the results show that SA treatment negatively affected the response of pea plants to NaCl, and this response correlated with an imbalance in antioxidant metabolism. The data also show that SA treatment could enhance the resistance of salt-stressed plants to possible opportunistic pathogen attack, as suggested by increased PR-1b gene expression.
One way of enhancing and broadening resistance of plants to different biotic and abiotic stresses is to combine transgenes expressing several genes into a single line. This can be done using different strategies such as crossing, single vector with multiple genes, co-transformation, sequential transformation and IRES elements. In the present study conventional crossing method was used. Parental transgenic lines transformed via Agrobacterium tumefasciens-mediated gene transformation with pGreenII binary vector harbouring a bar gene as selectable marker in combination with the family 19 chitinase gene from Streptomyces olivaceoviridis for one line and 1,3-β-glucanase from barley (Hordeum vulgare) for the other line were used for crossing. Both chitinase and glucanase genes were cloned into pGreenII vector under the control of the constitutive double 35S-promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus. Progenies expressing the two genes were characterised at the molecular level using PCR, RT-PCR and Southern blot analysis, as well as segregation and stability studies of the respective expression levels. Leaf paint assay was used as functional test for herbicide resistant gene. Stable inheritance of the antifungal genes in the transgenic plants was demonstrated. The synergistic effect of crossed plants was tested using in vitro assay which shows higher inhibition of spore germination.
The effect of constitutive and dark-induced expression of Solanum tuberosum phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) on the opening state of stomata and photosynthetic performance in Arabidopsis thaliana plants was studied. Transcript accumulation analyses of the A. thaliana dark-induced (Din10 and Din6) and the Pisum sativum asparagine synthetase 2 promoters (Asn2) in transiently transformed tobacco leaves showed that Din10 promoter induced more DsRed accumulation in the dark compared to the other din genes. Overexpression of PEPC under the control of the constitutive enhanced CaMV 35S (p35SS) and dark-induced Din10 promoter in stably transformed A. thaliana plants increased the number of opened stomata in dark adapted leaves. Gas exchange measurements using A. thaliana plants transgenic for p35SS-PEPC and Din10-PEPC revealed a marked increase in stomatal conductance, transpiration, and dark respiration rates measured in the dark compared to wild-type plants. Moreover, measurement of CO(2) assimilation rates at different external CO(2) concentrations (C(a) ) and different light intensities shows an increase in the CO(2) assimilation rates in transgenic Arabidopsis lines compared to wild-type plants. This is considered as first step towards transferring the aspects of Crassulacean acid metabolism-like photosynthetic mechanism into C3 plants.
In recent years, the role of WOX genes encoding homeodomain transcription factors in the development of the apical meristem of shoots and roots has been actively investigated. However, the role of WOX genes in the control of the cell proliferation in other meristem types is poorly studied. In our work, we have studied the role of the WOX5 gene in the development of the meristem in nitrogen-fixing nodules developing on the roots of legumes in a symbiosis with rhizobia. We have shown that the WOX5 gene is involved in the development of the nodule meristem in legumes, have quantitatively evaluated the gene's expression at different nodule formation stages, and have studied the localization of its expression using a construction containing the WOX5 promoter conjugated with a reporter gene. The role of the WOX5 transcription factor in the nodule organogenesis and its possible interaction with the hormonal system in the course of the nodule development has been discussed.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) expressing K88 (F4) adhesins are associated with post-weaning diarrhoea in piglets. Different grain fractions from pea (Pisum sativum) and faba bean (Vicia faba) were tested in vitro for their capacity to counteract aetiological factors, which contribute to the development of diarrhoea. In detail, adhesion of E. coli O149:K91:K88ac (ETEC K88ac) to grain legume products, intended to impair the colonization of the host, was studied as well as interference with receptor binding of the pathogen's heat-labile enterotoxin LT, intended to reduce toxin-inflicted gut cell damage. When comparing different pea and faba bean products tested for their binding capacity of ETEC K88ac, especially pea hulls, but also whole pea meal, starch-enriched and protein-enriched pea meal, and digestion-resistant pea hull and meal fractions showed a higher binding of ETEC K88ac than faba bean products. In contrast to the ETEC K88ac adhesion results, bean hulls proved more effective than pea hulls in preventing GM1 receptor binding of LT. Previous small intestinal segment perfusion experiments we performed with ETEC K88ac-challenged piglets indicated that both pea and bean hulls have the potential for successful application in diarrhoea prophylaxis and treatment, which is in agreement with and refined by our detection of their different modes of functioning.
Helicases are motor proteins that can transiently catalyze the unwinding of energetically stable duplex DNA or RNA molecules by using ATP hydrolysis as the source of energy. Many helicases share a core region of highly conserved sequence motifs, and belong to the rapidly growing DEAD-box protein family. Pea DNA helicase 45 (PDH45), that exhibits striking homology with eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A (eIF4A), contains ATP-dependent DNA and RNA helicase, DNA-dependent ATPase, and ATP-binding activities. The transcript of the PDH45 gene was reported to be upregulated in pea plant in response to high salinity, cold stress, abscisic acid (ABA), dehydration and early wounding. The first direct evidence that overexpression of PDH45 confers salinity stress tolerance without yield loss has also been reported. A promoter analysis of PDH45 gene has not been studied. The cis-regulatory elements present on promoter region of the gene act as binding sites for RNA polymerase and transcription factors and control the regulation of gene expression. Here we report the promoter of the PDH45 gene that contains stress-responsive cis-regulatory elements which may be responsible for regulating the expression of PDH45 under abiotic stress conditions.
Salinity stress is one of the major factors negatively affecting growth and productivity in living organisms including plants and bacteria resulting in significant losses worldwide. Therefore, it would be fruitful to develop salinity stress tolerant useful species and also to understand the mechanism of stress tolerance. The pea DNA helicase 45 (PDH45) is a DNA and RNA helicase, homologous to eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A (eIF-4A) and is involved in various processes including protein synthesis, maintaining the basic activities of the cell, upregulation of topoisomerase I activity and salinity stress tolerance in plant, but its role in salinity stress tolerance in bacteria has not heretofore been studied. This study provides an evidence for a novel function of the PDH45 gene in high salinity (NaCl) stress tolerance in bacteria (Eschericia coli, BL21 cells) also. Furthermore, it has been shown that the functionally active PDH45 gene is required to show the stress tolerance in bacteria because the single mutants (E183G or R363Q) and the double mutant (E183G + R363Q) of the gene could not confer the same function. The response was specific to Na+ ions as the bacteria could not grow in presence of LiCl. This study suggests that the cellular response to high salinity stress across prokaryotes and plant kingdom is conserved and also helps in our better understanding of mechanism of stress tolerance in bacteria and plants. It could also be very useful in developing high salinity stress tolerant useful bacteria of agronomic importance. Overall, this study provides an evidence for a novel function of the PDH45 gene in high salinity stress tolerance in bacteria.
Chloroplastic membrane proteins can be targeted to any of three distinct membrane systems, i.e., the outer envelope membrane (OEM), inner envelope membrane (IEM), and thylakoid membrane. This complex structure of chloroplasts adds significantly to the challenge of studying protein targeting to various membrane sub-compartments within a chloroplast. In this investigation, we examined the role played by the transmembrane domain (TMD) in directing membrane proteins to either the IEM or thylakoid membrane. Using the IEM protein, Arc6 (Accumulation and Replication of Chloroplasts 6), we exchanged the stop-transfer TMD of Arc6 with various TMDs derived from different IEM and thylakoid membrane proteins and monitored the subcellular localization of these Arc6-hybrid proteins. We showed that when the Arc6 TMD was replaced with a TMD derived from various thylakoid membrane proteins, these Arc6(thylTMD) hybrid proteins could be directed to the thylakoid membrane rather than to the IEM. Conversely, when the TMD of the thylakoid membrane proteins, STN8 (State Transition protein kinase 8) or Plsp1 (Plastidic type I signal peptidase 1), was replaced with the stop-transfer TMD of Arc6, STN8 and Plsp1 were halted at the IEM. From our investigation, we conclude that the TMD plays a critical role in targeting integral membrane proteins to either the IEM or thylakoid membrane.
This chapter focuses on the techniques of chloroplast isolation; their fractionation into envelopes, stroma, and thylakoids; and their further use for in vitro protein transport assays. In addition to the isolation of thylakoids, this chapter also describes the experimental steps of both protein translocation across the thylakoid membrane and protein integration into the membrane. Protein translocation and integration can be analysed by the radioactive labelling of substrate proteins using an in vitro transcription and translation system. The translocated or integrated proteins can then be detected by autoradiography. Our protocol allows the analysis of these transport systems in wild-type Arabidopsis or mutants that lack or overexpress soluble or membrane transport factors that could be of potential interest.
Stromules are thin stroma-filled tubules that extend from all plastid types in all multicellular plants examined. They are most easily visualised by epifluorescence or confocal microscopy of plastids containing green fluorescent protein (GFP) or other fluorescent proteins. Transient expression of gene constructs encoding plastid-targeted GFP following bombardment of whole plants or organs of Arabidopsis with gold or tungsten particles coated with plasmid DNA is a relatively rapid and simple means of producing material for observation of stromules.
Aldehyde oxidase (AO, EC 1.2.3.1) is a molybdenohydroxylase that is considered to catalyze the final step in the synthesis of abscisic acid (ABA) and possibly of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Five AO activity bands were detected after native PAGE with indole-3-aldehyde (PsAO-α, -β, -γ, -δ, -κ) and three with abscisic aldehyde (PsAO-γ, -δ, -κ) in developing seeds of Pisum sativum. At early and mid-development, PsAO-α, -β, -γ and only PsAO-γ were observed, respectively, and their localization as well as the expression of PsAOs genes was almost exclusively restricted to the maternal fruit tissues, the seed coat and pericarp. Towards the end of rapid reserve synthesis, two additional isoforms (PsAO-δ, -κ) appeared in cotyledons, coinciding with a high transcript level of PsAO2. At this developmental stage, the activity level of PsAO-γ, was still considerable in the testa, and was higher than at earlier stages in the embryonic axis, which correlated with the PsAO3 transcript level. In mature dry seeds, AO activity and the expression of PsAOs became restricted to the embryonic tissues. The possible involvement of AO isoforms in ABA or IAA synthesis during pea seed development as well as the contribution of particular PsAO genes to the formation of the dimeric pea AO isoforms is discussed.
A supernodulating and Nts (nitrate-tolerant symbiosis) symbiotic mutation of pea (Pisum sativum L.) line RisfixC was found to retain its expression in the distant genetic background of pea lines Afghanistan L1268, Zhodino E900, and cv. Arvika. This finding allowed for reliable scoring for the trait in mapping crosses. The RisfixC mutation was localized 8.2cM apart from SYM2 and cosegregated with molecular markers for SYM2-NOD3 region Psc923 and OA-1. Grafting experiments showed that supernodulation is root-determined, consistently with mutants in the NOD3 locus. Therefore, the mutation of RisfixC can be localized in gene NOD3. Like in other published nod3 alleles, the RisfixC mutation determines supernodulation when it is expressed in the root but not in the shoot. Supernodulated adventitious roots that are spontaneously formed in the wild-type scions on mutant rootstocks indicate that the descending systemic signal, which is inhibitory to nodule formation, is absent in this type of chimeric plants. Since the descending signal production in the wild-type shoot reflects the presence of the ascending root signal, the nod3-associated lesion must be located in the beginning of the systemic circuit regulating nodule number.
Aspects of transcriptional regulation in plants, such as the order in which transcriptional factors and the preinitiation complex are assembled, are obscure because studies carried out under conditions in which native chromatin structure is preserved are still few in comparison with those carried out under other conditions. In vivo chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments were used here to study the regulation of Pisum sativum psp54, which codes for the precursor of a chromatin-associated protein in dry seeds. Antibodies against PsSNF5, a component of the SWI/SNF remodelling complex, and against the transcriptional factor Pisum sativum abscisic acid insensitive 3 (PsABI3) were raised and used for ChIP experiments, which showed that both factors are bound to the psp54 promoter only when the gene is actively expressed during seed maturation and germination. However, RNA polymerase II appeared to be bound to the inactive promoter, which was poised for transcription, before the assembly of factors. Micrococcal nuclease protection assays showed that chromatin conformation at the proximal psp54 promoter changes in shifting from the active to inactive state. The changes in the promoter chromatin of psp54 are discussed. Stalled polymerase is described for the first time at the promoter of a non-heat-shock plant gene.
"Barbate roots" in tobacco and colza transgenic on lectin gene were obtained with the use of a wild strain of Agrobacterium rhizogenes 15834 transformed with pCAMBIA1305.1 plasmid containing the full-size lectin gene (psl) from the Pisum sativum. Influence of expression oflectin gene on colonization oftransgenic roots with symbiont of pea (Rhizobium leguminosarum) was investigated. The number of adhered bacteria onto the roots transformed with lectin gene was 14-fold and 37-fold higher in comparison with the control; this confirms the interaction of R. leguminosarum with pea lectin at the surface of the transformed roots of tobacco and colza. The developed experimental approach, based on the simulation of recognition processes and early symbiotic interactions with lectins of pea plants, may, in perspective, be used for obtaining stable associations of economically valuable, nonsymbiotrophic plant species with rhizobia.
Clover yellow vein virus (ClYVV) causes lethal systemic necrosis in legumes, including broad bean (Vicia faba) and pea (Pisum sativum). To identify host genes involved in necrotic symptom expression after ClYVV infection, we screened cDNA fragments in which expression was changed in advance of necrotic symptom expression in broad bean (V. faba cv. Wase) using the differential display technique and secondarily with Northern blot analysis. Expression changes were confirmed in 20 genes, and the six that exhibited the most change were analyzed further. These six genes included a gene that encodes a putative nitrate-induced NOI protein (VfNOI), and another was homologous to an Arabidopsis gene that encodes a glycine- and proline-rich protein GPRP (VfGPRP). We recently reported that necrotic symptom development in ClYVV-infected pea is associated with expression of salicylic acid (SA)-dependent pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins and requires SA-dependent host responses. Interestingly, VfNOI and VfGPRP expression was correlated with that of the putative SA-dependent PR proteins in ClYVV-infected broad bean. However, broad bean infected with a recombinant ClYVV expressing the VfGPRP protein showed weaker symptoms and less viral multiplication than that infected with ClYVV expressing the GFP protein. These results imply that VfGPRP plays a role in defense against ClYVV rather than in necrotic symptom expression.
The formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules in legumes is tightly controlled by a long-distance signaling system in which nodulating roots signal to shoot tissues to suppress further nodulation. A screen for supernodulating Medicago truncatula mutants defective in this regulatory behavior yielded loss-of-function alleles of a gene designated ROOT DETERMINED NODULATION1 (RDN1). Grafting experiments demonstrated that RDN1 regulatory function occurs in the roots, not the shoots, and is essential for normal nodule number regulation. The RDN1 gene, Medtr5g089520, was identified by genetic mapping, transcript profiling, and phenotypic rescue by expression of the wild-type gene in rdn1 mutants. A mutation in a putative RDN1 ortholog was also identified in the supernodulating nod3 mutant of pea (Pisum sativum). RDN1 is predicted to encode a 357-amino acid protein of unknown function. The RDN1 promoter drives expression in the vascular cylinder, suggesting RDN1 may be involved in initiating, responding to, or transporting vascular signals. RDN1 is a member of a small, uncharacterized, highly conserved gene family unique to green plants, including algae, that we have named the RDN family.
Loss-of-function alleles of plant-specific MLO (Mildew Resistance Locus O) genes confer broad-spectrum powdery mildew resistance in monocot (barley) and dicot (Arabidopsis thaliana, tomato) plants. Recessively inherited powdery mildew resistance in pea (Pisum sativum) er1 plants is, in many aspects, reminiscent of mlo-conditioned powdery mildew immunity, yet the underlying gene has remained elusive to date. We used a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based approach to amplify a candidate MLO cDNA from wild-type (Er1) pea. Sequence analysis of the PsMLO1 candidate gene in two natural er1 accessions from Asia and two er1-containing pea cultivars with a New World origin revealed, in each case, detrimental nucleotide polymorphisms in PsMLO1, suggesting that PsMLO1 is Er1. We corroborated this hypothesis by restoration of susceptibility on transient expression of PsMLO1 in the leaves of two resistant er1 accessions. Orthologous legume MLO genes from Medicago truncatula and Lotus japonicus likewise complemented the er1 phenotype. All tested er1 genotypes showed unaltered colonization with the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus, Glomus intraradices, and with nitrogen-fixing rhizobial bacteria. Our data demonstrate that PsMLO1 is Er1 and that the loss of PsMLO1 function conditions durable broad-spectrum powdery mildew resistance in pea.
Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola causes halo blight of the common bean, Phaseolus vulgaris, worldwide and remains difficult to control. Races of the pathogen cause either disease symptoms or a resistant hypersensitive response on a series of differentially reacting bean cultivars. The molecular genetics of the interaction between P. syringae pv. phaseolicola and bean, and the evolution of bacterial virulence, have been investigated in depth and this research has led to important discoveries in the field of plant-microbe interactions. In this review, we discuss several of the areas of study that chart the rise of P. syringae pv. phaseolicola from a common pathogen of bean plants to a molecular plant-pathogen supermodel bacterium. Bacteria; Proteobacteria, gamma subdivision; order Pseudomonadales; family Pseudomonadaceae; genus Pseudomonas; species Pseudomonas syringae; Genomospecies 2; pathogenic variety phaseolicola. Gram-negative, aerobic, motile, rod-shaped, 1.5 µm long, 0.7-1.2 µm in diameter, at least one polar flagellum, optimal temperatures for growth of 25-30°C, oxidase negative, arginine dihydrolase negative, levan positive and elicits the hypersensitive response on tobacco. Major bacterial disease of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) in temperate regions and above medium altitudes in the tropics. Natural infections have been recorded on several other legume species, including all members of the tribe Phaseoleae with the exception of Desmodium spp. and Pisum sativum. Water-soaked lesions on leaves, pods, stems or petioles, that quickly develop greenish-yellow haloes on leaves at temperatures of less than 23°C. Infected seeds may be symptomless, or have wrinkled or buttery-yellow patches on the seed coat. Seedling infection is recognized by general chlorosis, stunting and distortion of growth. Seed borne and disseminated from exudation by water-splash and wind occurring during rainfall. Bacteria invade through wounds and natural openings (notably stomata). Weedy and cultivated alternative hosts may also harbour the bacterium. Some measure of control is achieved with copper formulations and streptomycin. Pathogen-free seed and resistant cultivars are recommended. Pseudomonas-plant interaction http://www.pseudomonas-syringae.org/; PseudoDB http://xbase.bham.ac.uk/pseudodb/; Plant Associated and Environmental Microbes Database (PAMDB) http://genome.ppws.vt.edu/cgi-bin/MLST/home.pl; PseudoMLSA Database http://www.uib.es/microbiologiaBD/Welcome.html.
In a previous publication, we showed that the treatment of pea seeds in the presence of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) increased germination performance as well as seedling growth. To gain insight into the mechanisms responsible for this behaviour, we have analysed the effect of treating mature pea seeds in the presence of 20 mm H(2)O(2) on several oxidative features such as protein carbonylation, endogenous H(2)O(2) and lipid peroxidation levels. We report that H(2)O(2) treatment of the pea seeds increased their endogenous H(2)O(2) content and caused carbonylation of storage proteins and of several metabolic enzymes. Under the same conditions, we also monitored the expression of two MAPK genes known to be activated by H(2)O(2) in adult pea plants. The expression of one of them, PsMAPK2, largely increased upon pea seed imbibition in H(2)O(2) , whereas no change could be observed in expression of the other, PsMAPK3. The levels of several phytohormones such as 1-aminocyclopropane carboxylic acid, indole-3-acetic acid and zeatin appeared to correlate with the measured oxidative indicators and with the expression of PsMAPK2. Globally, our results suggest a key role of H(2)O(2) in the coordination of pea seed germination, acting as a priming factor that involves specific changes at the proteome, transcriptome and hormonal levels.
In this work the differential response of adult and young leaves from pea (Pisum sativum L.) plants to the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) (23 mm) applied by foliar spraying was investigated. The concentration of 2,4-D (23 mm) and the time of treatment (72 h) were previously optimized in order to visualize its toxic effects on pea plants. Under these conditions, the herbicide induced severe disturbances in mesophyll cells structure and proliferation of vascular tissue in young leaves and increased acyl-CoA oxidase (ACX), xanthine oxidase (XOD) and lipoxygenase (LOX) activities in young leaves, and only ACX and LOX in adult leaves. This situation produced reactive oxygen species (ROS) over-accumulation favoured by the absence of significant changes in the enzymatic antioxidants, giving rise to oxidative damages to proteins and membrane lipids. An increase of ethylene took place in both young and adult leaves and the induction of genes encoding the stress proteins, PRP4A and HSP 71,2, was observed mainly in young leaves. These results suggest that ROS overproduction is a key factor in the effect of high concentrations of 2,4-D, and ROS can trigger a differential response in young and adult leaves, either epinasty development in young leaves or senescence processes in adult tissues.
Kisspeptin, the product of the KISS1 gene, plays an essential role in the regulation of spermatogenesis acting primarily at the hypothalamic level of the gonadotropic axis. However, the presence of kisspeptin and its canonical receptor, KISS1R, in spermatozoa has not been explored nor the direct effects of kisspeptin on sperm function have been studied so far. In the present study, we analysed the expression of kisspeptin and its receptor in sperm cells by western blot and immunocytochemistry assays and evaluated the effects of exposure to kisspeptin on sperm intracellular Ca(2+) concentration, [Ca(2+)]i, sperm motility, sperm hyperactivation and the acrosome reaction. Changes in [Ca(2+)]i were monitored using Fura-2, sperm kinematic parameters were measured using computer-assisted sperm analysis (CASA), and the acrosome reaction was measured using fluorescein isothiocyanate-coupled Pisum sativum agglutinin lectin (FITC-PSA method). We found that kisspeptin and its receptor are present in sperm cells, where both are mainly localized in the sperm head, around the neck and in the flagellum midpiece. Exposure to kisspeptin caused a slow, progressive increase in [Ca(2+)]i, which reached a plateau about 3-6 min after kisspeptin exposure. In addition, kisspeptin modulated sperm progressive motility causing a biphasic (stimulatory and inhibitory) response and also induced transient sperm hyperactivation. The effects of kisspeptin on sperm motility and hyperactivation were inhibited by the antagonist of KISS1R, peptide 234. Kisspeptin did not induce the acrosome reaction in human spermatozoa. These data show for the first time that kisspeptin and its receptor are present in human spermatozoa and modulate key parameters of sperm function. This may represent an additional mechanism for their crucial function in the control of male fertility.
Leaf morphogenesis, including that of compound leaves, provides the basis for the great diversity of leaf form among higher plants. Leaf form is an important character by which plants adapt to their environment. The common garden pea provides a developmental model system for understanding leaf development in the legumes and a contrasting one for other groups of plants. We used genetic, tissue culture, and physiological methods, as well as DR5::GUS expression and qRT-PCR, to explore the interactions between the hormones gibberellic acid (GA) and auxin and Unifoliata ( UNI ) gene expression that control leaf morphogenesis in pea. Rate of increase in leaf complexity during shoot ontogeny (i.e., heteroblasty) and adult leaf complexity are controlled by GA through UNI . Leaves on greenhouse-grown uni-tac mutants are rescued by weekly GA or auxin applications. Auxin responsiveness is reduced in uni-tac shoot and root tips and in wild-type shoot tips treated with auxin transport inhibitors. GA and auxin increase UNI mRNA levels in uni-tac as well as that of other transcription factors. GA and auxin positively promote leaf dissection during leaf morphogenesis in pea by prolonging the time during which acropetally initiated pinna pairs are produced. GA-generated elaboration of leaf morphogenesis is in distinct contrast to that in other species, such as tomato and Cardamine . Instead, GA and auxin play common and supportive roles in pea leaf morphogenesis as they do in many other aspects of plant development
The garden pea, Pisum sativum, is among the best-investigated legume plants and of significant agro-commercial relevance. Pisum sativum has a large and complex genome and accordingly few comprehensive genomic resources exist. We analyzed the pea transcriptome at the highest possible amount of accuracy by current technology. We used next generation sequencing with the Roche/454 platform and evaluated and compared a variety of approaches, including diverse tissue libraries, normalization, alternative sequencing technologies, saturation estimation and diverse assembly strategies. We generated libraries from flowers, leaves, cotyledons, epi- and hypocotyl, and etiolated and light treated etiolated seedlings, comprising a total of 450 megabases. Libraries were assembled into 324,428 unigenes in a first pass assembly.A second pass assembly reduced the amount to 81,449 unigenes but caused a significant number of chimeras. Analyses of the assemblies identified the assembly step as a major possibility for improvement. By recording frequencies of Arabidopsis orthologs hit by randomly drawn reads and fitting parameters of the saturation curve we concluded that sequencing was exhaustive. For leaf libraries we found normalization allows partial recovery of expression strength aside the desired effect of increased coverage. Based on theoretical and biological considerations we concluded that the sequence reads in the database tagged the vast majority of transcripts in the aerial tissues. A pathway representation analysis showed the merits of sampling multiple aerial tissues to increase the number of tagged genes. All results have been made available as a fully annotated database in fasta format. We conclude that the approach taken resulted in a high quality - dataset which serves well as a first comprehensive reference set for the model legume pea. We suggest future deep sequencing transcriptome projects of species lacking a genomics backbone will need to concentrate mainly on resolving the issues of redundancy and paralogy during transcriptome assembly.
For efficient and large scale production of recombinant proteins in plants transient expression by agroinfection has a number of advantages over stable transformation. Simple manipulation, rapid analysis and high expression efficiency are possible. In pea, Pisum sativum, a Virus Induced Gene Silencing System using the pea early browning virus has been converted into an efficient agroinfection system by converting the two RNA genomes of the virus into binary expression vectors for Agrobacterium transformation. By vacuum infiltration (0.08 Mpa, 1 min) of germinating pea seeds with 2-3 cm roots with Agrobacteria carrying the binary vectors, expression of the gene for Green Fluorescent Protein as marker and the gene for the human acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) was obtained in 80% of the infiltrated developing seedlings. Maximal production of the recombinant proteins was achieved 12-15 days after infiltration. Compared to the leaf injection method vacuum infiltration of germinated seeds is highly efficient allowing large scale production of plants transiently expressing recombinant proteins. The production cycle of plants for harvesting the recombinant protein was shortened from 30 days for leaf injection to 15 days by applying vacuum infiltration. The synthesized aFGF was purified by heparin-affinity chromatography and its mitogenic activity on NIH 3T3 cells confirmed to be similar to a commercial product.
The aim of this work was to determine whether laminin (Ln), an extracellular matrix protein, induces the intracellular events that may be involved in producing the acrosome reaction in human sperm. To this end, we evaluated the effect of Ln on tyrosine phosphorylation, intracellular calcium concentration, proteasome activity, and phosphorylation in human sperm. Aliquots of highly motile sperm selected with a Percoll gradient, were incubated with different concentrations of Ln (0-20 μg/ml) for different periods (0-18 h). The percentage of viable acrosome-reacted sperm was evaluated using fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled Pisum sativum agglutinin and Hoechst 33258 DNA dye. Tyrosine phosphorylation was evaluated by Western blot analysis. The chymotrypsin-like activity of the proteasome was evaluated with a fluorogenic peptide, and intracellular calcium concentration was measured with fura-2. The results indicate that Ln stimulated the acrosome reaction of human sperm in a dose-dependent manner. This increase was drastically inhibited in the presence of herbimycin A, SU6656, and epoxomicin. In addition, Ln increased proteasome activity and phosphorylation; both events were inhibited by herbimycin A and SU6656. Finally, Ln induced an increase in intracellular calcium concentration, which was inhibited by SU6656 and epoxomicin. These results suggest that Ln is able to induce the acrosome reaction. This effect may be mediated by Src kinase and the proteasome, with the consequent induction of a calcium influx.
The seeds of peas (Pisum sativum) and chickpeas (Cicer arietinum) expressing a gene for α-amylase inhibitor-1 (αAI) from the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) are protected from damage by old world bruchids (pea and cowpea weevils). Here, we used electrospray ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry to compare the post-translational modifications of αAI from transgenic sources with the processed forms of the protein from several bean varieties. All sources showed microheterogeneity with differences in the relative abundance of particular variants due to differences in the frequency of addition of glycans, variable processing of glycans, and differences of C-terminal exopeptidase activity. The structural variation among the transgenics was generally within the range of the bean varieties. Previously, mice showed allergic reactions following ingestion of transgenic pea αAI but not bean αAI. Here, only minor differences were observed following intraperitoneal sensitization. Both of the transgenic pea and bean forms of αAI elicited Th1 and Th2 antibody isotype responses, suggesting that both proteins are immunogenic and could potentially be allergenic.
Previous work suggests that gibberellins (GAs) play an important role in early seed development. To more fully understand the roles of GAs throughout seed development, tissue-specific transcription profiles of GA metabolism genes and quantitative profiles of key GAs were determined in pea (Pisum sativum) seeds during the seed-filling development period (8-20 d after anthesis [DAA]). These profiles were correlated with seed photoassimilate acquisition and storage as well as morphological development. Seed coat growth (8-12 DAA) and the subsequent dramatic expansion of branched parenchyma cells were correlated with both transcript abundance of GA biosynthesis genes and the concentration of the growth effector GA, GA(1). These results suggest GA(1) involvement in determining the rate of seed coat growth and sink strength. The endosperm's PsGA20ox transcript abundance and the concentration of GA(20) increased markedly as the endosperm reached its maximum volume (12 DAA), thus providing ample GA(20) substrate for the GA 3-oxidases present in both the embryo and seed coat. Furthermore, PsGA3ox transcript profiles and trends in GA(1) levels in embryos at 10 to 16 DAA and also in embryo axes at 18 DAA suggest localized GA(1)-induced growth in these tissues. A shift from synthesis of GA(1) to that of GA(8) occurred after 18 DAA in the embryo axis, suggesting that deactivation of GA(1) to GA(8) is a likely mechanism to limit embryo axis growth and allow embryo maturation to proceed. We hypothesize that GA biosynthesis and catabolism are tightly regulated to bring about the unique developmental events that occur during seed growth, development, and maturation.
In legumes, seed storage proteins are important for the developing seedling and are an important source of protein for humans and animals. Lupinus angustifolius (L.), also known as narrow-leaf lupin (NLL) is a grain legume crop that is gaining recognition as a potential human health food as the grain is high in protein and dietary fibre, gluten-free and low in fat and starch. Genes encoding the seed storage proteins of NLL were characterised by sequencing cDNA clones derived from developing seeds. Four families of seed storage proteins were identified and comprised three unique α, seven β, two γ and four δ conglutins. This study added eleven new expressed storage protein genes for the species. A comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of NLL conglutins with those available for the storage proteins of Lupinus albus (L.), Pisum sativum (L.), Medicago truncatula (L.), Arachis hypogaea (L.) and Glycine max (L.) permitted the analysis of a phylogenetic relationships between proteins and demonstrated, in general, that the strongest conservation occurred within species. In the case of 7S globulin (β conglutins) and 2S sulphur-rich albumin (δ conglutins), the analysis suggests that gene duplication occurred after legume speciation. This contrasted with 11S globulin (α conglutin) and basic 7S (γ conglutin) sequences where some of these sequences appear to have diverged prior to speciation. The most abundant NLL conglutin family was β (56%), followed by α (24%), δ (15%) and γ (6%) and the transcript levels of these genes increased 103 to 106 fold during seed development. We used the 16 NLL conglutin sequences identified here to determine that for individuals specifically allergic to lupin, all seven members of the β conglutin family were potential allergens. This study has characterised 16 seed storage protein genes in NLL including 11 newly-identified members. It has helped lay the foundation for efforts to use molecular breeding approaches to improve lupins, for example by reducing allergens or increasing the expression of specific seed storage protein(s) with desirable nutritional properties.
Legume seeds are a major source of dietary proteins for humans and animals. Deciphering the genetic control of their accumulation is thus of primary significance towards their improvement. At first, we analysed the genetic variability of the pea seed proteome of three genotypes over 3 years of cultivation. This revealed that seed protein composition variability was under predominant genetic control, with as much as 60% of the spots varying quantitatively among the three genotypes. Then, by combining proteomic and quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping approaches, we uncovered the genetic architecture of seed proteome variability. Protein quantity loci (PQL) were searched for 525 spots detected on 2-D gels obtained for 157 recombinant inbred lines. Most protein quantity loci mapped in clusters, suggesting that the accumulation of the major storage protein families was under the control of a limited number of loci. While convicilin accumulation was mainly under the control of cis-regulatory regions, vicilins and legumins were controlled by both cis- and trans-regulatory regions. Some loci controlled both seed protein composition and protein content and a locus on LGIIa appears to be a major regulator of protein composition and of protein in vitro digestibility.
The bacterial pathogen Erwinia amylovora causes the devastating disease known as fire blight in some rosaceous plants including apple and pear. One of the pathogenicity factors affecting fire blight development is the production of a siderophore, desferrioxamine, which overcomes the limiting conditions in plant tissues and also protects bacteria against active oxygen species. In this paper we examine the effect of an iron chelator protein encoded by the pea ferritin gene on the fire blight susceptibility of pear (Pyrus communis). Transgenic pear clones expressing this gene controlled either by the constitutive promoter CaMV 35S or by the inducible promoter sgd24 promoter were produced. The transgenic clones produced were analysed by Q-RT-PCR to determine the level of expression of the pea transgene. A pathogen-inducible pattern of expression of the pea transgene was observed in sgd24-promoter transformants. Adaptation to iron deficiency in vitro was tested in some transgenic clones and different iron metabolism parameters were measured. No strong effect on iron and chlorophyll content, root reductase activity and fire blight susceptibility was detected in the transgenic lines tested. No transformants showed a significant reduction in susceptibility to fire blight in greenhouse conditions when inoculated with E. amylovora.
Two pea lines (Pisum sativum L.) with contrasted behaviours towards chilling and subsequent frost were studied by a proteomic approach to better understand cold acclimation. Following a chilling period, the Champagne line becomes tolerant to frost whereas Terese remains sensitive. Variance analysis allowed to select 260 statistically variable spots with 68 identified proteins (35 in leaves, 18 in stems, and 15 in roots). These proteins were shared out in proteins related to chilling response or cold acclimation. The better adaptation of Champagne to chilling might be related to a higher content in proteins involved in photosynthesis and in defence mechanisms. Moreover Champagne might prevent freezing damage particularly thanks to a higher constitutive expression of housekeeping proteins related to Terese. After three days of subsequent frost, proteomes of previously chilled plants also showed significant differences compared to unchilled plants. Out of 112 statistically variable spots (44 in leaves, 38 in stems, and 30 in roots), 32 proteins were identified. These proteins were related to frost response or frost resistance. It seems that Champagne could resist to frost with the reorientation of the energy metabolism.
The Tic20 protein was identified in pea (Pisum sativum) as a component of the chloroplast protein import apparatus. In Arabidopsis, there are four Tic20 homologues, termed atTic20-I, atTic20-IV, atTic20-II and atTic20-V, all with predicted topological similarity to the pea protein (psTic20). Analysis of Tic20 sequences from many species indicated that they are phylogenetically unrelated to mitochondrial Tim17-22-23 proteins, and that they form two evolutionarily conserved subgroups [characterized by psTic20/atTic20-I/IV (Group 1) and atTic20-II/V (Group 2)]. Like psTic20, all four Arabidopsis proteins have a predicted transit peptide consistent with targeting to the inner envelope. Envelope localization of each one was confirmed by analysis of YFP fusions. RT-PCR and microarray data revealed that the four genes are expressed throughout development. To assess the functional significance of the genes, T-DNA mutants were identified. Homozygous tic20-I plants had an albino phenotype that correlated with abnormal chloroplast development and reduced levels of chloroplast proteins. However, knockouts for the other three genes were indistinguishable from the wild type. To test for redundancy, double and triple mutants were studied; apart from those involving tic20-I, none was distinguishable from the wild type. The tic20-I tic20-II and tic20-I tic20-V double mutants were albino, like the corresponding tic20-I parent. In contrast, tic20-I tic20-IV double homozygotes could not be identified, due to gametophytic and embryonic lethality. Redundancy between atTic20-I and atTic20-IV was confirmed by complementation analysis. Thus, atTic20-I and atTic20-IV are the major functional Tic20 isoforms in Arabidopsis, with partially overlapping roles. While the Group 2 proteins have been conserved over approximately 1.2 billion (1.2 × 10(9) ) years, they are not essential for normal development.
Chloroplasts are fundamental organelles enabling plant photoautotrophy. Besides their outstanding physiological role in fixation of atmospheric CO(2), they harbor many important metabolic processes such as biosynthesis of amino acids, vitamins or hormones. Technical advances in MS allowed the recent identification of most chloroplast proteins. However, for a deeper understanding of chloroplast function it is important to obtain a complete list of constituents, which is so far limited by the detection of low-abundant proteins. Therefore, we developed a two-step strategy for the enrichment of low-abundant soluble chloroplast proteins from Pisum sativum and their subsequent identification by MS. First, chloroplast protein extracts were depleted from the most abundant protein ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase by SEC or heating. Further purification was carried out by affinity chromatography, using ligands specific for ATP- or metal-binding proteins. By these means, we were able to identify a total of 448 proteins including 43 putative novel chloroplast proteins. Additionally, the chloroplast localization of 13 selected proteins was confirmed using yellow fluorescent protein fusion analyses. The selected proteins included a phosphoglycerate mutase, a cysteine protease, a putative protein kinase and an EF-hand containing substrate carrier protein, which are expected to exhibit important metabolic or regulatory functions.
The eukaryotic pre-replicative complex (Pre-RC), including heterohexameric minichromosome maintenance (MCM2-7) proteins, ensures that the DNA in genome is replicated only once per cell division cycle. The MCMs provide DNA unwinding function during the DNA replication. Since MCM proteins play essential role in cell division and most likely are affected during stress conditions therefore their overexpression in plants may help in stress tolerance. But the role of MCMs in abiotic stress tolerance in plants has not been reported so far. In this study we report that: a) the MCM6 transcript is upregulated in pea plant in response to high salinity and cold stress and not with ABA, drought and heat stress; b) MCM6 overexpression driven by a constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus-35S promoter in tobacco plants confers salinity tolerance. The T(1) transgenics plants were able to grow to maturity and set normal viable seeds under continuous salinity stress, without yield penalty. It was observed that in salt-grown T(1) transgenic plants the Na(+) ions is mostly accumulated in mature leaves and not in seeds of T(1) transgenic lines as compared with the wild-type (WT) plants. T(1) transgenic plants exhibited better growth status under salinity stress conditions in comparison to WT plants. Furthermore, the T(1) transgenic plants maintained significantly higher levels of leaf chlorophyll content, net photosynthetic rate and therefore higher dry matter accumulation and yield with 200 mM NaCl as compared to the WT plants. Tolerance index data showed better salt tolerance potential of T(1) transgenic plants in comparison to WT. These findings provide first direct evidence that overexpression of single subunit MCM6 confers salinity stress tolerance without yield loss. The possible mechanism of salinity tolerance is discussed. These findings suggest that DNA replication machinery can be exploited for promoting stress tolerance in crop plants.
A cDNA of 312 bp, similar to polygalacturonase-inhibiting proteins (PGIPs), was isolated by cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism (cDNA-AFLP) from pea roots infected with the cyst nematode Heterodera goettingiana. The deduced amino acid sequence obtained from the complete Pspgip1 coding sequence was very similar to PGIPs described from several other plant species, and was identical in both MG103738 and Progress 9 genotypes, resistant and susceptible to H. goettingiana, respectively. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) expression analysis revealed the differential regulation of the Pspgip1 gene in the two genotypes in response to wounding and nematode challenge. Mechanical wounding induced Pspgip1 expression in MG103738 within 8 h, but this response was delayed in Progress 9. In contrast, the response to nematode infection was more complex. The transcription of Pspgip1 was triggered rapidly in both genotypes, but the expression level returned to levels observed in uninfected plants more quickly in susceptible than in resistant roots. In addition, in situ hybridization showed that Pspgip1 was expressed in the cortical cells damaged as a result of nematode invasion in both genotypes. However, it was specifically localized in the cells bordering the nematode-induced syncytia in resistant roots. This suggests a role for this gene in counteracting nematode establishment inside the root.
The pea (Pisum sativum) tetrameric short-chain alcohol dehydrogenase-like protein (SAD) family consists of at least three highly similar members (SAD-A, -B, and -C). According to mRNA data, environmental stimuli induce SAD expression. The aim of this study was to characterize the SAD proteins by examining their catalytic function, distribution in pea, and induction in different tissues. In enzyme activity assays using a range of potential substrates, the SAD-C enzyme was shown to reduce one- or two-ring-membered quinones lacking long hydrophobic hydrocarbon tails. Immunological assays using a specific antiserum against the protein demonstrated that different tissues and cell types contain small amounts of SAD protein that was predominantly located within epidermal or subepidermal cells and around vascular tissue. Particularly high local concentrations were observed in the protoderm of the seed cotyledonary axis. Two bow-shaped rows of cells in the ovary and the placental surface facing the ovule also exhibited considerable SAD staining. Ultraviolet-B irradiation led to increased staining in epidermal and subepidermal cells of leaves and stems. The different localization patterns of SAD suggest functions both in development and in responses to environmental stimuli. Finally, the pea SAD-C promoter was shown to confer heterologous wound-induced expression in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), which confirmed that the inducibility of its expression is regulated at the transcriptional level.
Molecular roles of sterols in plant development remain to be elucidated. To investigate sterol composition during embryogenesis, the occurrence of 25 steroid compounds in stages of developing seeds and pods of Pisum sativum was examined by GC-MS analysis. Immature seeds containing very young embryos exhibited the greatest concentrations of sterols. Regression models indicated that the natural log of seed or pod fr. wt was a consistent predictor of declining sterol content during embryonic development. Although total sterol levels were reduced in mature embryos, the composition of major sterols sitosterol and campesterol remained relatively constant in all 12 seed stages examined. In mature seeds, a significant decrease in isofucosterol was observed, as well as minor changes such as increases in cycloartenol branch sterols and campesterol derivatives. In comparison to seeds and pods, striking differences in composition were observed in sterol profiles of stems, shoots, leaves, flowers and flower buds, as well as cotyledons versus radicles. The highest levels of isofucosterol, a precursor to sitosterol, occurred in young seeds and flower buds, tissues that contain rapidly dividing cells and cells undergoing differentiation. Conversely, the highest levels of stigmasterol, a derivative of sitosterol, were found in fully-differentiated leaves while all seed stages exhibited low levels of stigmasterol. The observed differences in sterol content were correlated to mRNA expression data for sterol biosynthesis genes from Arabidopsis. These findings implicate the coordinated expression of sterol biosynthesis enzymes in gene regulatory networks underlying the embryonic development of flowering plants.
Iron is essential for all living organisms and plays a crucial role in pathogenicity. This study presents the first proteome analysis of plasma membranes isolated from pea roots. Protein profiles of four different samples (+Fe, +Fe/Chitosan, -Fe, and -Fe/Chitosan) were compared by native IEF-PAGE combined with in-gel activity stains and DIGE. Using DIGE, 89 proteins of interest were detected in plasma membrane fractions. Data revealed a differential abundance of several spots in all samples investigated. In comparison to the control and -FeCh the abundance of six protein spots increased whereas 56 spots decreased in +FeCh. Altered protein spots were analyzed by MALDI-TOF-TOF mass spectrometry. Besides stress-related proteins, transport proteins and redox enzymes were identified. Activity stains after native PAGE and spectrophotometric measurements demonstrated induction of a ferric-chelate reductase (-Fe) and a putative respiratory burst oxidase homolog (-FeCh). However, the activity of the ferric-chelate reductase decreased in -Fe plants after elicitor treatment. The activity of plasma membrane-bound class III peroxidases increased after elicitor treatment and decreased under iron-deficiency, whereas activity of quinone reductases decreased mostly after elicitor treatment. Possible functions of proteins identified and reasons for a weakened pathogen response of iron-deficient plants were discussed.
In legumes, perception of rhizobial lipochitooligosacharide-based molecules (Nod factors) and subsequent signal transduction triggers transcription of plant symbiosis-specific genes (early nodulins). We present genetic dissection of Nod factor-controlled processes in Pisum sativum using two early nodulin genes PsENOD12a and PsENOD5, that are differentially up-regulated during symbiosis. A novel set of non-nodulating pea mutants in fourteen loci was examined, among which seven loci are not described in Lotus japonicus and Medicago truncatula. Mutants defective in Pssym10, Pssym8, Pssym19, Pssym9 and Pssym7 exhibited no PsENOD12a and PsENOD5 activation in response to Nod factor-producing rhizobia. Thus, a conserved signalling module from the LysM receptor kinase encoded by Pssym10 down to the GRAS transcription factor encoded by Pssym7 is essential for Nod factor-induced gene expression. Of the two investigated genes, PsENOD5 was more strictly regulated; not only requiring the SYM10-SYM7 module, but also SYM35 (NIN transcription factor), SYM14, SYM16 and SYM34. Since Pssym35, Pssym14, Pssym34 and Pssym16 mutants show arrested infection and nodule formation at various stages, PsENOD5 expression seems to be essential for later symbiotic events, when rhizobia enter into plant tissues. Activation of PsENOD12a only requires components involved in early steps of signalling and can be considered as a marker of early symbiotic events preceding infection.
Ultraviolet-B radiation regulates plant growth and morphology at low and ambient fluence rates but can severely impact on plants at higher doses. Some plant UV-B responses are related to the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and pyridoxine (vitamin B(6)) has been reported to be a quencher of ROS. UV-B irradiation of Arabidopsis Col-0 plants resulted in increased levels of PDX1 protein, compared with UV-A-exposed plants. This was shown by immunoblot analysis using specific polyclonal antibodies raised against the recombinant PDX1.3 protein and confirmed by mass spectrometry analysis of immunoprecipitated PDX1. The protein was located mainly in the cytosol but also to a small extent in the membrane fraction of plant leaves. Immunohistochemical analysis performed in pea revealed that PDX1 is present in UV-B-exposed leaf mesophyll and palisade parenchyma but not in epidermal cells. Pyridoxine production increased in Col-0 plants exposed to 3 days of UV-B, whereas in an Arabidopsis pdx1.3 mutant UV-B did not induce pyridoxine biosynthesis. In gene expression studies performed after UV-B exposure, the pdx1.3 mutant showed elevated transcript levels for the LHCB1*3 gene (encoding a chlorophyll a/b-binding protein of the photosystem II light-harvesting antenna complex) and the pathogenesis-related protein 5 (PR-5) gene, compared with wild type.
Garden pea (Pisum sativum) was prominent in early studies investigating the genetic control of flowering and the role of mobile flowering signals. In view of recent evidence that genes in the FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) family play an important role in generating mobile flowering signals, we isolated the FT gene family in pea and examined the regulation and function of its members. Comparison with Medicago truncatula and soybean (Glycine max) provides evidence of three ancient subclades (FTa, FTb, and FTc) likely to be common to most crop and model legumes. Pea FT genes show distinctly different expression patterns with respect to developmental timing, tissue specificity, and response to photoperiod and differ in their activity in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana, suggesting they may have different functions. We show that the pea FTa1 gene corresponds to the GIGAS locus, which is essential for flowering under long-day conditions and promotes flowering under short-day conditions but is not required for photoperiod responsiveness. Grafting, expression, and double mutant analyses show that GIGAS/FTa1 regulates a mobile flowering stimulus but also provide clear evidence for a second mobile flowering stimulus that is correlated with expression of FTb2 in leaf tissue. These results suggest that induction of flowering by photoperiod in pea results from interactions among several members of a diversified FT family.
The number of root nodules developing on legume roots after rhizobial infection is controlled by the plant shoot through autoregulation and mutational inactivation of this mechanism leads to hypernodulation. We have characterised the Pisum sativum (pea) Sym28 locus involved in autoregulation and shown that it encodes a protein similar to the Arabidopsis CLAVATA2 (CLV2) protein. Inactivation of the PsClv2 gene in four independent sym28 mutant alleles, carrying premature stop codons, results in hypernodulation of the root and changes to the shoot architecture. In the reproductive phase sym28 shoots develops additional flowers, the stem fasciates, and the normal phyllotaxis is perturbed. Mutational substitution of an amino acid in one leucine rich repeat of the corresponding Lotus japonicus LjCLV2 protein results in increased nodulation. Similarly, down-regulation of the Lotus Clv2 gene by RNAi mediated reduction of the transcript level also resulted in increased nodulation. Gene expression analysis of LjClv2 and Lotus hypernodulation aberrant root formation Har1 (previously shown to regulate nodule numbers) indicated they have overlapping organ expression patterns. However, we were unable to demonstrate a direct protein-protein interaction between LjCLV2 and LjHAR1 proteins in contrast to the situation between equivalent proteins in Arabidopsis. LjHAR1 was localised to the plasma membrane using a YFP fusion whereas LjCLV2-YFP localised to the endoplasmic reticulum when transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. This finding is the most likely explanation for the lack of interaction between these two proteins.
Mutation of gltB (encoding glutamate oxoglutarate amidotransferase or GOGAT) in RU2307 increased the intracellular Gln:Glu ratio and inhibited amino acid transport via Aap and Bra. The mechanism probably involves global post-translational inhibition independent of Ntr. Transport was separately restored by increased gene expression of Aap or heterologous transporters. Likewise, second site suppressor mutations in the RNA chaperone Hfq elevated transport by Aap and Bra by increasing mRNA levels. Microarrays showed Hfq regulates 34 ABC transporter genes, including aap, bra and opp. The genes coding for integral membrane proteins and ABC subunits aapQMP braDEFGC were more strongly elevated in the hfq mutants than solute-binding proteins (aapJ braC). aapQMP and braDEFG are immediately downstream of stem-loops, indicating Hfq attenuates downstream translation and stability of mRNA, explaining differential expression of ABC genes. RU2307 nodulated peas and bacteria grew down infection threads, but bacteroid development was arrested and N(2) was not fixed. This probably results from an inability to synthesize or transport amino acids. However, GOGAT and GOGAT/AldA double mutants carrying suppressor mutations that increased amino acid uptake fixed N(2) on pea plants. Thus de novo ammonium assimilation into amino acids is unnecessary in bacteroids demonstrating sufficient amino acids are supplied by plants.
Ascochyta blight, caused by Mycosphaerella pinodes is one of the most important pea pathogens. However, little is known about the genes and mechanisms of resistance acting against M. pinodes in pea. Resistance identified so far to this pathogen is incomplete, polygenic and scarce in pea, being most common in Pisum relatives. The identification of the genes underlying resistance would increase our knowledge about M. pinodes-pea interaction and would facilitate the introgression of resistance into pea varieties. In the present study differentially expressed genes in the resistant P. sativum ssp. syriacum accession P665 comparing to the susceptible pea cv. Messire after inoculation with M. pinodes have been identified using a M. truncatula microarray. Of the 16,470 sequences analysed, 346 were differentially regulated. Differentially regulated genes belonged to almost all functional categories and included genes involved in defense such as genes involved in cell wall reinforcement, phenylpropanoid and phytoalexins metabolism, pathogenesis- related (PR) proteins and detoxification processes. Genes associated with jasmonic acid (JA) and ethylene signal transduction pathways were induced suggesting that the response to M. pinodes in pea is regulated via JA and ET pathways. Expression levels of ten differentially regulated genes were validated in inoculated and control plants using qRT-PCR showing that the P665 accession shows constitutively an increased expression of the defense related genes as peroxidases, disease resistance response protein 39 (DRR230-b), glutathione S-transferase (GST) and 6a-hydroxymaackiain methyltransferase. Through this study a global view of genes expressed during resistance to M. pinodes has been obtained, giving relevant information about the mechanisms and pathways conferring resistance to this important disease. In addition, the M. truncatula microarray represents an efficient tool to identify candidate genes controlling resistance to M. pinodes in pea.
Shoot branching is one of the major determinants of plant architecture. Polar auxin transport in stems is necessary for the control of bud outgrowth by a dominant apex. Here, we show that following decapitation in pea (Pisum sativum L.), the axillary buds establish directional auxin export by subcellular polarization of PIN auxin transporters. Apical auxin application on the decapitated stem prevents this PIN polarization and canalization of laterally applied auxin. These results support a model in which the apical and lateral auxin sources compete for primary channels of auxin transport in the stem to control the outgrowth of axillary buds.
Chloroplastic thioredoxins f and m (TRX f and TRX m) mediate light regulation of carbon metabolism through the activation of Calvin cycle enzymes. The role of TRX f and m in the activation of Calvin cycle enzymes is best known among the TRX family. However, the discoveries of new potential targets extend the functions of chloroplastic TRXs to other processes in non-photosynthetic tissues. As occurs with numerous chloroplast proteins, their expression comes under light regulation. Here, the focus is on the light regulation of TRX f and TRX m in pea and Arabidopsis during the day/night cycle that is maintained during the subjective night. In pea (Pisum sativum), TRX f and TRX m1 expression is shown to be governed by a circadian oscillation exerted at both the transcriptional and protein levels. Binding shift assays indicate that this control probably involves the interaction of the CCA1 transcription factor and an evening element (EE) located in the PsTRX f and PsTRX m1 promoters. In Arabidopsis, among the multigene family of TRX f and TRX m, AtTRX f2 and AtTRX m2 mRNA showed similar circadian oscillatory regulation, suggesting that such regulation is conserved in plants. However, this oscillation was disrupted in plants overexpressing CCA1 (cca1-ox) or repressing CCA1 and LHY (cca1-lhy). The physiological role of the oscillatory regulation of chloroplastic TRX f and TRX m in plants during the day/night cycle is discussed.
The transition of pea embryos from pre-storage to maturation is partially controlled by abscisic acid (ABA). Immunomodulation in pea embryos specifically reduces free ABA levels during transition stages. Such seeds are, therefore, suitable models for studying ABA deficiency by global transcript and metabolite analysis. Compared with the wild type, anti-ABA seeds are smaller, contain fewer globulins and show lower dry matter accumulation and delayed differentiation. Free sugars are decreased, indicating lower uptake and/or elevated mobilisation. Lower levels of trans-zeatins suggest that ABA reduction influences rates of cytokinin synthesis and/or its level of accumulation. Abscisic acid deficiency leads to a general downregulation of gene expression related to transcription and translation. At the transcriptional level, anti-ABA embryos reveal a wide-range repression of carbohydrate oxidation, downregulated sucrose mobilisation, glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid cycle/Krebs cycle (TCA cycle). Genes related to starch, amino acid and storage protein biosynthesis are downregulated, indicating a general decrease in metabolic fluxes. We conclude that during embryo differentiation ABA triggers broad upregulation of gene activity and genetic reprogramming, involving regulated protein degradation via the ubiquitin/proteasome system. Abscisic acid deficiency affects gene expression associated with transport processes and stimulation of membrane energisation. Our study identified mediators and downstream signalling elements of ABA during embryo differentiation, such as the transcription factor FUSCA3, SnRK1 kinase and Ca(2+) signalling processes. This suggests that ABA interacts with SnRK1 complexes, thus connecting SnRK1, sugar and stress signalling with ABA. Certain protein kinases/phosphatases known to negatively respond to ABA are upregulated in the modulated line, whilst those which respond positively are downregulated, pointing to a highly coordinated response of the gene network to ABA levels.
The protein complexes in the thylakoid membrane are composed of subunits derived from both the nuclear and chloroplast genomes. While less is known about the mechanisms of delivery of the plastid-encoded subunits, the targeting mechanisms of the nuclear-encoded subunits have been more experimentally tractable. We have described in this chapter the methods used in our laboratory for investigations of the import of nuclear-encoded proteins across the chloroplast envelope membranes, and for their further delivery into or across the thylakoid membrane by one of the four distinct pathways.
Gene encoding a novel translation initiation factor PeIF5B from Pisum sativum with sequence similarity to eIF5B from H. sapiens, D. melanogaster, S. cerevisiae as well as archaeal aIF5B from M. thermoautotrophicum was earlier reported by us. We now describe the expression and purification of 96 kDa recombinant PeIF5B (rPeIF5B) protein. Using fluorescence and circular dichroism spectra analyses, we show that Mg(2+) binding does not lead to any change in PeIF5B aromatic amino acid micro-environment, whereas GTP binding induces significant changes in the local environment of the aromatic amino acids. However, the protein undergoes changes in secondary structure upon metal ion and nucleotide binding. Charged initiator tRNA binding to PeIF5B is found to be cofactor dependent. PeIF5B binds to GTP in vitro as evident from autoradiography. Based on homology modeling of the catalytic domain of PeIF5B, we could confirm the conformational changes in PeIF5B following ligand binding.
The synthesis and deactivation of bioactive gibberellins (GA) are regulated by auxin and by GA signalling. The effect of GA on its own pathway is mediated by DELLA proteins. Like auxin, the DELLAs promote GA synthesis and inhibit its deactivation. Here, we investigate the relationships between auxin and DELLA regulation of the GA pathway in stems, using a pea double mutant that is deficient in DELLA proteins. In general terms our results demonstrate that auxin and DELLAs independently regulate the GA pathway, contrary to some previous suggestions. The extent to which DELLA regulation was able to counteract the effects of auxin regulation varied from gene to gene. For Mendel's LE gene (PsGA3ox1) no counteraction was observed. However, for another synthesis gene, a GA 20-oxidase, the effect of auxin was weak and in WT plants appeared to be completely over-ridden by DELLA regulation. For a key GA deactivation (2-oxidase) gene, PsGA2ox1, the up-regulation induced by auxin deficiency was reduced to some extent by DELLA regulation. A second pea 2-oxidase gene, PsGA2ox2, was up-regulated by auxin, in a DELLA-independent manner. In Arabidopsis also, one 2-oxidase gene was down-regulated by auxin while another was up-regulated. Monitoring the metabolism pattern of GA(20) showed that in Arabidopsis, as in pea, auxin can promote the accumulation of bioactive GA.
Two recessive genes (cyv1 and cyv2) are known to confer resistance against Clover yellow vein virus (ClYVV) in pea. cyv2 has recently been revealed to encode eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) and is the same allele as sbm1 and wlm against other potyviruses. Although mechanical inoculation with crude sap is rarely able to cause infection of a cyv2 pea, biolistic inoculation of the infectious ClYVV cDNA clone does. At the infection foci, the breaking virus frequently emerges, resulting in systemic infection. Here, a derived cleaved-amplified polymorphic sequence analysis showed that the breakings were associated with a single nonsynonymous mutation on the ClYVV genome, corresponding to an amino-acid substitution at position 24 (isoleucine to valine) on the P1 cistron. ClYVV with the point mutation was able to break the resistance. This is a first report demonstrating that P1 is involved in eIF4E-mediated recessive resistance.
Previous study has shown that during zygomorphic development in garden pea (Pisum sativum L.), the organ internal (IN) asymmetry of lateral and ventral petals was regulated by a genetic locus, SYMMETRIC PETAL 1 (SYP1), while the dorsoventral (DV) asymmetry was determined by two CYC-like TCP genes or the PsCYC genes, KEELED WINGS (K) and LOBED STANDARD 1 (LST1). In this study, two novel loci, ELEPHANT EAR-LIKE LEAF 1 (ELE1) and ELE2 were characterized. These mutants exhibit a similar defect of IN asymmetry as syp1 in lateral and ventral petals, but also display pleiotropic effects of enlarged organ size. Genetic analysis showed that ELE1 and ELE2 were involved in same genetic pathway and the enlarged size of petals but not compound leaves in ele2 was suppressed by introducing k and lst1, indicating that the enlargement of dorsal petal in ele2 requires the activities of K and LST1. An experimental framework of comparative genomic mapping approach was set up to map and clone LjELE1 locus in Lotus japonicus. Cloning the ELE1 gene will shed light on the underlying molecular mechanism during zygomorphic development and further provide the molecular basis for genetic improvement on legume crops.
Here we present a brief review of the reports concerning proteome modifications under the influence of salicylic acid, which is one of the major mediators of both local and systemic immunity. We describe also the results of our own studies of the salicylate-induced changes in proteomes of pea leaves and roots. Fifteen salicylate-inducible proteins, which were previously unknown, have been identified. Unlike the roots, leaves accumulated some chloroplast proteins and enzymes capable of degrading the pathogen cell walls. In the roots, salicylic acid increased the content of enzymes, improving the resistance of plant cells themselves, and promoted the disappearance of reductase of oxophytodienic acid. The latter could lead to inhibition of jasmonic acid synthesis and stimulation of local immunity. High (apoptotic) concentration of salicylic acid intensified synthesis of root proteins involved in the formation of heteroprotein complexes, which play an important role in the functioning of the signaling system, DNA synthesis and repair, and protein synthesis, refolding, and proteolysis.
Aluminium toxicity has been recognized as a primary growth-limiting factor in acid soil, resulting in a decrease in plant growth and production. In this experiment we have studied the induction of oxidative stress and changes in antioxidant gene expression in pea (var. ALASKA) under aluminium (Al) stress. We have found that Al treatment affected the growth of pea plant and induced oxidative stress with a change in antioxidant gene expression profile. While the expression of glutathione-s-transferase (GST) and catalase (CAT) was more in root, cytosolic Ascorbate peroxidase (cAPX) expression increased in shoot under aluminium stress. Copper- Zinc Superoxide dismutase (Cu-Zn SOD) gene expression was higher after 24 h but decreased after 48 h along with elevated expression of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and iron-superoxide dismutase (FeSOD) at higher aluminium concentrations after 24 and 48 h. Aluminium stress elevated hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) level and affected the growth. The proline content did not change significantly, whereas glutathione content increased with a decreased ascorbate content under Al stress. The present study indicates that aluminium treatment affected the antioxidant gene expression and induced oxidative stress in pea plant.
Phenotypic plasticity in response to environmental change is a common phenomenon, yet is poorly understood at the genetic and molecular level. Aphids exhibit a reproductive plasticity whereby seasonal changes result in asexual or sexual reproduction. To investigate the genetic basis of this reproductive plasticity, we assessed the meiosis and cell cycle gene repertoire in the genome of the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum. Aphids possess meiotic recombination genes and G1-to-S phase transition regulatory genes in gene copy numbers similar to other metazoans. However, mitotic and meiotic regulatory genes have duplicated, and several paralogues exhibit differential expression between reproductive morphs. Together, this suggests that cell cycle plasticity may be important in the evolution and mechanism of aphid reproductive plasticity.
Methylation of cytosine is one of the main epigenetic mechanisms involved in controlling gene expression. Here we show that the pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum) genome possesses homologues to all the DNA methyltransferases found in vertebrates, and that 0.69% (+/-0.25%) of all cytosines are methylated. Identified methylation sites are predominantly restricted to the coding sequence of genes at CpG sites. We identify twelve methylated genes, including genes that interact with juvenile hormone, a key endocrine signal in insects. Bioinformatic prediction using CpG ratios for all predicted genes suggest that a large proportion of genes are methylated within the pea aphid.
Aphids display extraordinary developmental plasticity in response to environmental cues. These differential responses to environmental changes may be due in part to changes in gene expression patterns. To understand the molecular basis for aphid developmental plasticity, we attempted to identify the chromatin-remodelling machinery in the recently sequenced pea aphid genome. We find that the pea aphid possesses a complement of metazoan histone modifying enzymes with greater gene family diversity than that seen in a number of other arthropods. Several genes appear to have undergone recent duplication and divergence, potentially enabling greater combinatorial diversity among the chromatin-remodelling complexes. The abundant aphid chromatin modifying enzymes may facilitate the phenotypic plasticity necessary to maintain the complex life cycle of the aphid.
In insects, chitinases play an essential role in the degradation of old exoskeleton and turnover of the gut lining. In silico screening of the entire genome of the pea aphid (Hemimetabola), Acyrthosiphon pisum, detected nine genes encoding putative chitinase-like proteins, including six enzymatically active chitinases, one imaginal disc growth factor, and one endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase. Screening of the genomes of Aedes aegypti, Anopheles gambiae, Apis mellifera, Bombyx mori, Culex quinquefasciatus, Drosophila melanogaster, Nasonia vitripennis, Pediculus humanus corporis, and Tribolium castaneum suggested repeated gene duplications in holometabolous lineages. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR demonstrated the expression of four and two distinct chitinase-like genes of A. pisum to be highly up-regulated in the embryo and the midgut, respectively, suggesting specific roles in these pea aphid tissues.
Screening of the entire genome of the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum, detected 15 genes for putative dynamin superfamily proteins - self-assembling large GTPases that are involved in the fission and fusion of membranes. In addition to a single gene each for Dyn, Drp1, and Opa1, orthologues that are common in Metazoa, 12 genes encoding a novel type of dynamin were found. Phylogenetic analyses showed that these novel-class genes are monophyletic. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR demonstrated that expressions of four novel-class dynamin genes are highly up-regulated in the midgut, through which aphids take in phloem-sap diets and plant viruses. As this type of dynamin is absent from all other fully sequenced organisms, they may function in processes unique to aphids.
Analysis of the pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum) genome using signatures specific to the Major Facilitator Superfamily (Pfam Clan CL0015) and the Sugar_tr family (Pfam Family PF00083) has identified 54 genes encoding potential sugar transporters, of which 38 have corresponding ESTs. Twenty-nine genes contain the InterPro IPR003663 hexose transporter signature. The protein encoded by Ap_ST3, the most abundantly expressed sugar transporter gene, was functionally characterized by expression as a recombinant protein. Ap_ST3 acts as a low-affinity uniporter for fructose and glucose that does not depend on Na(+) or H(+) for activity. Ap_ST3 was expressed at elevated levels in distal gut tissue, consistent with a role in gut sugar transport. The A. pisum genome shows evidence of duplications of sugar transporter genes.
In the dipteran Drosophila, the genes bicoid and hunchback work synergistically to pattern the anterior blastoderm during embryogenesis. bicoid, however, appears to be an innovation of the higher Diptera. Hence, in some non-dipteran insects, anterior specification instead relies on a synergistic interaction between maternally transcribed hunchback and orthodenticle. Here we describe how orthologues of hunchback and orthodenticle are expressed during oogenesis and embryogenesis in the parthenogenetic and viviparous form of the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum. A. pisum hunchback (Aphb) mRNA is localized to the anterior pole in developing oocytes and early embryos prior to blastoderm formation - a pattern strongly reminiscent of bicoid localization in Drosophila. A. pisum orthodenticle (Apotd), on the other hand, is not expressed prior to gastrulation, suggesting that it is the asymmetric localization of Aphb, rather than synergy between Aphb and Apotd, that regulates anterior specification in asexual pea aphids.
Little is known about when, how or even if the wing development gene network elucidated in Drosophila is deployed in direct-developing insects. Here we identify the wing development genes (as determined in Drosophila) of the pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum), which produces winged or unwinged adults in response to environmental cues. We find that the principal wing development genes studied in Drosophila are present in the aphid genome and that apterous and decapentaplegic exhibit duplications. We followed expression levels of 11 of these developmental genes at embryogenesis and across the nymphal instars. Six showed significant stage-specific expression level effects and apterous1 exhibited significantly different expression levels between winged and unwinged morphs, suggesting this gene acts proximately to realize polyphenic development.
The leaves of seed plants evolved from a primitive shoot system and are generated as determinate dorsiventral appendages at the flanks of radial indeterminate shoots. The remarkable variation of leaves has remained a constant source of fascination, and their developmental versatility has provided an advantageous platform to study genetic regulation of subtle, and sometimes transient, morphological changes. Here, we describe how eudicot plants recruited conserved shoot meristematic factors to regulate growth of the basic simple leaf blade and how subsets of these factors are subsequently re-employed to promote and maintain further organogenic potential. By comparing tractable genetic programs of species with different leaf types and evaluating the pros and cons of phylogenetic experimental procedures, we suggest that simple and compound leaves, and, by the same token, leaflets and serrations, are regulated by distinct ontogenetic programs. Finally, florigen, in its capacity as a general growth regulator, is presented as a new upper-tier systemic modulator in the patterning of compound leaves.
Reverse transcription quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction is the most accurate measure of gene expression in biological systems. The data are analyzed through a process called normalization. Internal standards are essential for determining the relative gene expression in different samples. For this purpose, reference genes are selected based on their constitutive expression across samples. At present, there has not yet been any reference gene identified in any organism that is universally optimal across different tissue types or disease situations. Our goal was to test the regulation of 11 potential references for pea. These included eight commonly used and three new candidates. Twenty-six samples, including different tissues, treatments and genotypes, were addressed in this analysis. For reliable data normalization, the most suitable combination of reference genes in each experimental set was constructed with at least two out the five more stably expressed references in the whole experimental series (i.e. protein phosphatase 2A, beta-tubulin, GH720838, actin and GH720808). To validate the determined measure of gene-stability, the gene-specific variation was calculated using different normalization factors. The most non-specific variation was removed when the most stable genes were used, highlighting the importance of the adequate choice of internal controls in gene expression experiments. The set of reference genes presented here will provide useful guidelines as starting point for reference gene selection in pea studies under conditions other than those tested here.
BacA is an integral membrane protein, the mutation of which leads to increased resistance to the antimicrobial peptides bleomycin and Bac7(1-35) and a greater sensitivity to SDS and vancomycin in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae, R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli, and Rhizobium etli. The growth of Rhizobium strains on dicarboxylates as a sole carbon source was impaired in bacA mutants but was overcome by elevating the calcium level. While bacA mutants elicited indeterminate nodule formation on peas, which belong to the galegoid tribe of legumes, bacteria lysed after release from infection threads and mature bacteroids were not formed. Microarray analysis revealed almost no change in a bacA mutant of R. leguminosarum bv. viciae in free-living culture. In contrast, 45 genes were more-than 3-fold upregulated in a bacA mutant isolated from pea nodules. Almost half of these genes code for cell membrane components, suggesting that BacA is crucial to alterations that occur in the cell envelope during bacteroid development. In stark contrast, bacA mutants of R. leguminosarum bv. phaseoli and R. etli elicited the formation of normal determinate nodules on their bean host, which belongs to the phaseoloid tribe of legumes. Bacteroids from these nodules were indistinguishable from the wild type in morphology and nitrogen fixation. Thus, while bacA mutants of bacteria that infect galegoid or phaseoloid legumes have similar phenotypes in free-living culture, BacA is essential only for bacteroid development in indeterminate galegoid nodules.
Classical genetic analysis has revealed that the determinate habit of soybean (Glycine max) is controlled by a recessive allele at the determinate stem (Dt1) locus. To dissect the molecular basis of the determinate habit, we isolated two orthologs of pea (Pisum sativum) TERMINAL FLOWER1a, GmTFL1a and GmTFL1b, from the soybean genome. Mapping analysis indicated that GmTFL1b is a candidate for Dt1. Despite their high amino acid identity, the two genes had different transcriptional profiles. GmTFL1b was expressed in the root and shoot apical meristems (SAMs), whereas GmTFL1a was mainly expressed in immature seed. The GmTFL1b transcript accumulated in the SAMs during early vegetative growth in both the determinate and indeterminate lines but thereafter was abruptly lost in the determinate line. Introduction of the genomic region of GmTFL1b from the indeterminate line complemented the stem growth habit in the determinate line: more nodes were produced, and flowering in the terminal raceme was delayed. The identity between Dt1 and GmTFL1b was also confirmed with a virus-induced gene silencing experiment. Taken together, our data suggest that Dt1 encodes the GmTFL1b protein and that the stem growth habit is determined by the variation of this gene. The dt1 allele may condition the determinate habit via the earlier loss in GmTFL1b expression concomitant with floral induction, although it functions normally under the noninductive phase of flowering. An association test of DNA polymorphisms with the stem growth habit among 16 cultivars suggested that a single amino acid substitution in exon 4 determines the fate of the SAM after floral induction.
The pathways that allow short noncoding RNAs such as the microRNAs (miRNAs) to mediate gene regulation and control critical cellular and developmental processes involve a limited number of key protein components. These proteins are the Dicer-like RNases, double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-binding proteins, and the Argonaute (AGO) proteins that process stem-loop hairpin transcripts of endogenous genes to generate miRNAs or long dsRNA precursors (either exogenous or endogenous). Comparative genomics studies of metazoans have shown the pathways to be highly conserved overall; the major difference observed is that the vertebrate pathways overlap in sharing a single Dicer (DCR) and AGO proteins, whereas those of insects appear to be parallel, with distinct Dicers and AGOs required for each pathway. The genome of the pea aphid is the first available for a hemipteran insect and discloses an unexpected expansion of the miRNA pathway. It has two copies of the miRNA-specific dicr-1 and ago1 genes and four copies of pasha a cofactor of drosha involved in miRNA biosynthesis. For three of these expansions, we showed that one copy of the genes diverged rapidly and in one case (ago1b) shows signs of positive selection. These expansions occurred concomitantly within a brief evolutionary period. The pea aphid, which reproduces by viviparous parthenogenesis, is able to produce several adapted phenotypes from one single genotype. We show by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction that all the duplicated copies of the miRNA machinery genes are expressed in the different morphs. Investigating the function of these novel genes offers an exciting new challenge in aphid biology.
Boron (B) deficiency has a strong effect on molecular and cellular plant-bacteria interactions during the development of the legume-rhizobia symbiosis, leading to reduced infection and early necrosis of nodules, resembling a pathogenic-like rather than a symbiotic interaction. Therefore, induction of pathogenesis-related (PRs) proteins was investigated here in legume root nodules. Following two-dimensional electrophoresis and MALDI-TOF spectrometry analysis of proteins extracted from Pisum sativum B-sufficient (+B) or B-deficient (-B) root nodules, two proteins from the family PR10, ABR17 and PR10.1, were identified as highly induced in -B nodules. Analysis of gene expression and the use of anti-ABR17 confirmed that induction occurred in B-deficient young nodules and increased during nodule development. ABR17 was also induced in -B nodules of Phaseolus vulgaris. Boron deficiency did not significantly increase the expression of these PR10 in uninfected plant tissues. Moreover, independent of B, induction was detected in senescent tissues, although at a level weaker than in -B nodules. The immunochemical study of ABR17 antigen distribution showed that it was localized in all tissues of poorly invaded B-deficient nodules and accumulated around bacteria, which showed advanced degradation. These results suggest that, under B deficiency, the rhizobia-legume dialogue fails and the bacterium is recognized as a pathogen by the plant, which reacts to prevent infection by inducing at least these two identified PR10 proteins.
Boron (B) is an essential nutrient for N(2)-fixing legume-rhizobia symbioses, and the capacity of borate ions to bind and stabilize biomolecules is the basis of any B function. We used a borate-binding-specific resin and immunostaining techniques to identify B ligands important for the development of Pisum sativum-Rhizobium leguminosarum 3841 symbiotic nodules. arabinogalactan-extensin (AGPE), recognized by MAC 265 antibody, appeared heavily bound to the resin in extracts derived from B-sufficient, but not from B-deficient nodules. MAC 265 stained the infection threads and the extracellular matrix of cortical cells involved in the oxygen diffusion barrier. In B-deprived nodules, immunolocalization of MAC 265 antigens was significantly reduced. Leghaemoglobin (Lb) concentration largely decreased in B-deficient nodules. The absence of MAC 203 antigens in B-deficient nodules suggests a high internal oxygen concentration, as this antibody detects an epitope on the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of bacteroids typically expressed in micro-aerobically grown R. leguminosarum 3841. However, B-deprived nodules did not accumulate oxidized lipids and proteins, and revealed a decrease in the activity of the major antioxidant enzyme ascorbate peroxidase (APX). Therefore, B deficiency reduced the stability of nodule macromolecules important for rhizobial infection, and for regulation of oxygen concentration, resulting in non-functional nodules, but did not appear to induce oxidative damage in low-B nodules.
The arbuscular mycorrhiza association results from a successful interaction between genomes of the plant and fungal symbiotic partners. In this study, we analyzed the effect of inactivation of late-stage symbiosis-related pea genes on symbiosis-associated fungal and plant molecular responses in order to gain insight into their role in the functional mycorrhizal association. The expression of a subset of ten fungal and eight plant genes, previously reported to be activated during mycorrhiza development, was compared in Glomus intraradices-inoculated wild-type and isogenic genotypes of pea mutated for the PsSym36, PsSym33, and PsSym40 genes where arbuscule formation is inhibited or fungal turnover modulated, respectively. Microdissection was used to corroborate arbuscule-related fungal gene expression. Molecular responses varied between pea genotypes and with fungal development. Most of the fungal genes were downregulated when arbuscule formation was defective, and several were upregulated with more rapid fungal development. Some of the plant genes were also affected by inactivation of the PsSym36, PsSym33, and PsSym40 loci, but in a more time-dependent way during root colonization by G. intraradices. Results indicate a role of the late-stage symbiosis-related pea genes not only in mycorrhiza development but also in the symbiotic functioning of arbuscule-containing cells.
Controversial data on the lipid-lowering effect of dietary pea proteins have been provided and the mechanisms behind this effect are not completely understood. The aim of the study was to evaluate a possible hypolipidemic activity of a pea protein isolate and to determine whether pea proteins could affect the hepatic lipid metabolism through regulation of genes involved in cholesterol and fatty acid homeostasis. Rats were fed Nath's hypercholesterolemic diets for 28 days, the protein sources being casein or a pea protein isolate from Pisum sativum. After 14 and 28 days of dietary treatment, rats fed pea proteins had markedly lower plasma cholesterol and triglyceride levels than rats fed casein (p<0.05). Pea protein-fed rats displayed higher hepatic mRNA levels of LDL receptor versus those fed casein (p<0.05). Hepatic mRNA concentration of genes involved in fatty acids synthesis, such as fatty acid synthase and stearoyl-CoA desaturase, was lower in pea protein-fed rats than in rats fed casein (p<0.05). In conclusion, the present study demonstrates a marked cholesterol and triglyceride-lowering activity of pea proteins in rats. Moreover, pea proteins appear to affect cellular lipid homeostasis by upregulating genes involved in hepatic cholesterol uptake and by downregulating fatty acid synthesis genes.
Genes encoding cellulase enzymes have been investigated in various plants due to the importance of cellulase enzymes in industrial applications, especially in the conversion of biomass into biofuels. Although several cellulase genes have been cloned and characterized, little is known about cellulase genes from garlic or enzyme activities of their gene products. In this study, a cellulase gene from garlic was cloned and characterized in gene and protein levels for the first time. The DNA sequence of the garlic cellulase gene showed 81% identity with the sequence of the endo-beta-1,4-glucanase of
Extractability, extractable protein compositions, technological-functional properties of pea (Pisum sativum) proteins from six genotypes grown in Serbia were investigated. Also, the relationship between these characteristics was presented. Investigated genotypes showed significant differences in storage protein content, composition and extractability. The ratio of vicilin:legumin concentrations, as well as the ratio of vicilin + convicilin: Legumin concentrations were positively correlated with extractability. Our data suggest that the higher level of vicilin and/or a lower level of legumin have a positive influence on protein extractability. The emulsion activity index (EAI) was strongly and positively correlated with the solubility, while no significant correlation was found between emulsion stability (ESI) and solubility, nor between foaming properties and solubility. No association was evident between ESI and EAI. A moderate positive correlation between emulsion stability and foam capacity was observed. Proteins from the investigated genotypes expressed significantly different emulsifying properties and foam capacity at different pH values, whereas low foam stability was detected. It appears that genotype has considerable influence on content, composition and technological-functional properties of pea bean proteins. This fact can be very useful for food scientists in efforts to improve the quality of peas and pea protein products.
Synthesis of the hydrogen uptake (Hup) system in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae requires the function of an 18-gene cluster (hupSLCDEFGHIJK-hypABFCDEX). Among them, the hupE gene encodes a protein showing six transmembrane domains for which a potential role as a nickel permease has been proposed. In this paper, we further characterize the nickel transport capacity of HupE and that of the translated product of hupE2, a hydrogenase-unlinked gene identified in the R. leguminosarum genome. HupE2 is a potential membrane protein that shows 48% amino acid sequence identity with HupE. Expression of both genes in the Escherichia coli nikABCDE mutant strain HYD723 restored hydrogenase activity and nickel transport. However, nickel transport assays revealed that HupE and HupE2 displayed different levels of nickel uptake. Site-directed mutagenesis of histidine residues in HupE revealed two motifs (HX(5)DH and FHGX[AV]HGXE) that are required for HupE functionality. An R. leguminosarum double mutant, SPF22A (hupE hupE2), exhibited reduced levels of hydrogenase activity in free-living cells, and this phenotype was complemented by nickel supplementation. Low levels of symbiotic hydrogenase activity were also observed in SPF22A bacteroid cells from lentil (Lens culinaris L.) root nodules but not in pea (Pisum sativum L.) bacteroids. Moreover, heterologous expression of the R. leguminosarum hup system in bacteroid cells of Rhizobium tropici and Mesorhizobium loti displayed reduced levels of hydrogen uptake in the absence of hupE. These data support the role of R. leguminosarum HupE as a nickel permease required for hydrogen uptake under both free-living and symbiotic conditions.
The outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria represents the interface between the bacterium and its external environment. It has a critical role as a protective barrier against harmful substances and is also important in host-bacteria interactions representing the initial physical point of contact between the host cell and bacterial cell. RopB is a previously identified outer membrane protein from Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae that is present in free-living cells but absent in bacteroids (H. P. Roest, I. H. Mulders, C. A. Wijffelman, and B. J. Lugtenberg, Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 8:576-583, 1995). The functions of RopB and the molecular mechanisms of ropB gene regulation have remained unknown. We identified and cloned ropB and two homologs (ropB2 and ropB3) from the R. leguminosarum VF39SM genome. Reporter gene fusions indicated that the expression of ropB was 8-fold higher when cells were grown in complex media than when they were grown in minimal media, while ropB3 expression was constitutively expressed at low levels in both complex and minimal media. Expression of ropB2 was negligible under all conditions tested. The use of minimal media supplemented with various sources of peptides resulted in a 5-fold increase in ropB expression. An increase in ropB expression in the presence of peptides was not observed in a chvG mutant background, indicating a role for the sensor kinase in regulating ropB expression. Each member of the ropB gene family was mutated using insertional mutagenesis, and the mutants were assayed for susceptibility to antimicrobial agents and symbiotic phenotypes. All mutants formed effective nodules on pea plants, and gene expression for each rop gene in bacteroids was negligible. The functions of ropB2 and ropB3 remain cryptic, while the ropB mutant had an increased sensitivity to detergents, hydrophobic antibiotics, and weak organic acids, suggesting a role for RopB in outer membrane stability.
The Tic55 (Translocon at the inner envelope membrane of chloroplasts, 55 kDa) protein was identified in pea as a putative regulator, possibly linking chloroplast protein import to the redox state of the photosynthetic machinery. Two Tic55 homologs have been proposed to exist in Arabidopsis: atTic55-II and AtPTC52 (Protochlorophyllide-dependent Translocon Component, 52 kDa; has also been called atTic55-IV). Our phylogenetic analysis shows that atTic55-II is an ortholog of psTic55 from pea (Pisum sativum), and that AtPTC52 is a more distant homolog of the two. AtPTC52 was included in this study to rule out possible functional links between the proteins in Arabidopsis. No detectable mutant phenotypes were found in two independent T-DNA knockout mutant plant lines for each Arabidopsis protein, when compared with wild-type: visible appearance, chlorophyll content, photosynthetic performance, and chloroplast protein import, for example, were all normal. Both wild-type and tic55-II mutant chloroplasts exhibited deficient protein import when treated with diethylpyrocarbonate, indicating that Tic55 is not the sole target of this reagent in relation to protein import. Furthermore, ptc52 mutant chloroplasts were not defective with respect to pPORA import, which was previously reported to involve PTC52 in barley. Thus, we conclude that atTic55-II and AtPTC52 are not strictly required for functional protein import in Arabidopsis.
Most chloroplast proteins (cp proteins) are nucleus-encoded, synthesized on cytosolic ribosomes as precursor proteins containing a presequence (cTP), and post-translationally imported via the Tic/Toc complex into the organelle, where the cTP is removed. Only a few unambiguous instances of cp proteins that do not require cTPs (non-canonical cp proteins) have been reported so far. However, the survey of data from large-scale proteomic studies presented here suggests that the fraction of such proteins in the total cp proteome might be as large as approximately 30%. To explore this discrepancy, we chose a representative set of 28 putative non-canonical cp proteins, and used in vitro import and Red Fluorescent Protein (RFP)-fusion assays to determine their sub-cellular destinations. Four proteins, including embryo defective 1211, glycolate oxidase 2, protein disulfide isomerase-like protein (PDII), and a putative glutathione S-transferase, could be unambiguously assigned to the chloroplast. Several others ('potential cp proteins') were found to be imported into chloroplasts in vitro, but failed to localize to the organelle when RFP was fused to their C-terminal ends. Extrapolations suggest that the fraction of cp proteins that enter the inner compartments of the organelle, although they lack a cTP, might be as large as 11.4% of the total cp proteome. Our data also support the idea that cytosolic proteins that associate with the cp outer membrane might account for false positive cp proteins obtained in earlier studies.
The import of nuclear-encoded preproteins is necessary to maintain chloroplast function. The recognition and transfer of most precursor proteins across the chloroplast envelopes are facilitated by two membrane-inserted protein complexes, the translocons of the chloroplast outer and inner envelope (Toc and Tic complexes, respectively). Several signals have been invoked to regulate the import of preproteins. In our study, we were interested in redox-based import regulation mediated by two signals: regulation based on thiols and on the metabolic NADP+/NADPH ratio. We sought to identify the proteins participating in the regulation of these transport pathways and to characterize the preprotein subgroups whose import is redox-dependent. Our results provide evidence that the formation and reduction of disulfide bridges in the Toc receptors and Toc translocation channel have a strong influence on import yield of all tested preproteins that depend on the Toc complex for translocation. Furthermore, the metabolic NADP+/NADPH ratio influences not only the composition of the Tic complex, but also the import efficiency of most, but not all, preproteins tested. Thus, several Tic subcomplexes appear to participate in the translocation of different preprotein subgroups, and the redox-active components of these complexes likely play a role in regulating transport.
Bud outgrowth is regulated by the interplay of multiple hormones, including auxin, cytokinin, strigolactones, and an unidentified long-distance feedback signal that moves from shoot to root. The model of bud outgrowth regulation in pea (Pisum sativum) includes these signals and a network of five RAMOSUS (RMS) genes that operate in a shoot-root-shoot loop to regulate the synthesis of, and response to, strigolactones. The number of components in this network renders the integration of new and existing hypotheses both complex and cumbersome. A hypothesis-driven computational model was therefore developed to help understand regulation of shoot branching. The model evolved in parallel with stepwise laboratory research, helping to define and test key hypotheses. The computational model was used to verify new mechanisms involved in the regulation of shoot branching by confirming that the new hypotheses captured all relevant biological data sets. Based on cytokinin and RMS1 expression analyses, this model is extended to include subtle but important differences in the function of RMS3 and RMS4 genes in the shoot and rootstock. Additionally, this research indicates that a branch-derived signal upregulates RMS1 expression independent of the other feedback signal. Furthermore, we propose xylem-sap cytokinin promotes sustained bud outgrowth, rather than acting at the earlier stage of bud release.
Buchnera aphidicola is the primary obligate intracellular symbiont of most aphid species. B. aphidicola and aphids have been evolving in parallel since their association started, about 150 Myr ago. Both partners have lost their autonomy, and aphid diversification has been confined to smaller ecological niches by this co-evolution. B. aphidicola has undergone major genomic and biochemical changes as a result of adapting to intracellular life. Several genomes of B. aphidicola from different aphid species have been sequenced in the last decade, making it possible to carry out analyses and comparative studies using system-level in silico methods. This review attempts to provide a systemic description of the symbiotic function of aphid endosymbionts, particularly of B. aphidicola from the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum, by analyzing their structural genomic properties, as well as their genetic and metabolic networks.
The plant lectin receptor-like kinases (LecRLKs) are involved in various signaling pathways but their role in salinity stress tolerance has not heretofore been well described. Salinity stress negatively affects plant growth/productivity and threatens food security worldwide. Based on functional gene-mining assay, we have isolated 34 salinity tolerant genes out of one million Escherichia coli (SOLR) transformants containing pea cDNAs grown in 0.8 M NaCl. Sequence analysis of one of these revealed homology to LecRLK, which possesses N-myristilation and N-glycosylation sites thus corroborating the protein to be a glycoconjugate. The homology based computational modeling of the kinase domain suggested high degree of conservation with the protein already known to be stress responsive in plants. The NaCl tolerance provided by PsLecRLK to the above bacteria was further confirmed in E. coli (DH5alpha). In planta studies showed that the expression of PsLecRLK cDNA was significantly upregulated in response to NaCl as compared to K(+) and Li(+) ions, suggesting the Na(+) ion specific response. Transcript of the PsLecRLK gene accumulates mainly in roots and shoots. The purified 47 kDa recombinant PsLecRLK-KD (kinase domain) protein has been shown to phosphorylate general substrates like MBP and casein. This study not only suggests the conservation of the cellular response to high salinity stress across prokaryotes and plant kingdom but also provides impetus to develop novel concepts for better understanding of mechanism of stress tolerance in bacteria and plants. It also opens up new avenues for studying practical aspects of plant salinity tolerance for enhanced agricultural productivity.
Seed development passes through developmental phases such as cell division, differentiation and maturation: each have specific metabolic demands. The ubiquitous sucrose non-fermenting-like kinase (SnRK1) coordinates and adjusts physiological and metabolic demands with growth. In protoplast assays sucrose deprivation and hormone supplementation, such as with auxin and abscisic acid (ABA), stimulate SnRK1-promoter activity. This indicates regulation by nutrients: hormonal crosstalk under conditions of nutrient demand and cell proliferation. SnRK1-repressed pea (Pisum sativum) embryos show lower cytokinin levels and deregulation of cotyledonary establishment and growth, together with downregulated gene expression related to cell proliferation, meristem maintenance and differentiation, leaf formation, and polarity. This suggests that at early stages of seed development SnRK1 regulates coordinated cotyledon emergence and growth via cytokinin-mediated auxin transport and/or distribution. Decreased ABA levels and reduced gene expression, involved in ABA-mediated seed maturation and response to sugars, indicate that SnRK1 is required for ABA synthesis and/or signal transduction at an early stage. Metabolic profiling of SnRK1-repressed embryos revealed lower levels of most organic and amino acids. In contrast, levels of sugars and glycolytic intermediates were higher or unchanged, indicating decreased carbon partitioning into subsequent pathways such as the tricarbonic acid cycle and amino acid biosynthesis. It is hypothesized that SnRK1 mediates the responses to sugar signals required for early cotyledon establishment and patterning. As a result, later maturation and storage activity are strongly impaired. Changes observed in SnRK1-repressed pea seeds provide a framework for how SnRK1 communicates nutrient and hormonal signals from auxins, cytokinins and ABA to control metabolism and development.
Heterotrophic plastids of seeds perform many biosynthetic reactions. Understanding their function in crop plants is crucial for seed production. Physiological functions depend on the uptake of precursors by a range of different metabolite translocators. The 2-oxoglutarate/malate translocator gene (PsOMT), which is highly expressed during pea (Pisum sativum) embryo maturation, has an important role during seed storage. PsOMT functions have been studied by antisense repression in maturing pea embryos, and were found to reduce mRNA levels and transport rates of 2-oxoglutarate and malate by 50-70%. Combined metabolite and transcript profiling revealed that OMT repression affects the conversion of carbohydrates from sucrose into amino acids and proteins, decreases seed weight and delays maturation. OMT-repressed pea embryos have increased levels of organic acids, ammonia, and higher ratios of Asn : Asp and Gln : Glu. Decreased levels of most other amino acids indicate the reduced usage of organic acids and ammonia for amino acid biosynthesis in plastids, possibly caused by substrate limitation of the plastidial glutamine synthetase/glutamine-2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase cycle. Expression of storage proteins is delayed, and mature seeds have reduced protein content. Downregulated gene expression of starch biosynthesis and plastidial glucose-6-phosphate transport in asOMT embryos reveals that decreased 2-oxoglutarate/malate transport capacity affects other pathways of central carbon metabolism. Gene expression analysis related to plastid physiology revealed that OMT repression delays differentiation of storage plastids, thereby maintaining gene expression associated with green chloroplasts. We conclude that OMT is important for protein-storing crop seeds, and is necessary for amino acid biosynthesis in pea seeds. In addition, carbon supply as mediated by OMT controls plastid differentiation during seed maturation.
The DIE NEUTRALIS (DNE) locus in garden pea (Pisum sativum) was previously shown to inhibit flowering under noninductive short-day conditions and to affect a graft-transmissible flowering signal. In this study, we establish that DNE has a role in diurnal and/or circadian regulation of several clock genes, including the pea GIGANTEA (GI) ortholog LATE BLOOMER 1 (LATE1) and orthologs of the Arabidopsis thaliana genes LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL and TIMING OF CHLOROPHYLL A/B BINDING PROTEIN EXPRESSION 1. We also confirm that LATE1 participates in the clock and provide evidence that DNE is the ortholog of Arabidopsis EARLY FLOWERING4 (ELF4). Circadian rhythms of clock gene expression in wild-type plants under constant light were weaker in pea than in Arabidopsis, and a number of differences were also seen in the effects of both DNE/ELF4 and LATE1/GI on clock gene expression. Grafting studies suggest that DNE controls flowering at least in part through a LATE1-dependent mobile stimulus, and dne mutants show elevated expression of a FLOWERING LOCUS T homolog under short-day conditions. However, the early flowering of the dne mutant is not associated with altered expression of a previously described CONSTANS-like gene. Collectively, our results characterize the clock system and reveal its importance for photoperiod responsiveness in a model legume.
Dicistronic binary vector constructs based on pGreenII vectors for Agrobacterium mediated gene transfer alleviate the translational expression monitoring of a target gene in plants. The functionality of the transformation vectors was proven by marker gene constructs containing a mannopine synthase promoter (p-MAS) fused to a beta-glucuronidase (gus) gene followed by an internal ribosome entry site and a firefly luciferase (luc) gene. The cap-dependent translation of a physically independent target protein can be monitored by the cap-independently co-translated luciferase, because both mRNAs are located on the same strand. Among three different IRES elements, the tobamo IRES element showed highest activity in transient expression. As a proof of principle for physiological studies the gus gene was replaced by a sodium antiporter gene (Atnhx1). Comparative studies with Atnhx1 transgenic luc expressing tobacco cell cultures and pea plants (Pisum sativum L.) showed improved salt tolerance in relation to their wild type counterparts grown under corresponding conditions. A coincidence of the luc gene expression and increased sodium chloride tolerance is demonstrated by measurement of luminescence and cell growth.
We have examined the role of gibberellins (GAs) in plant development by expression of the pea GA 2-oxidase2 (PsGA2ox2) cDNA, which encodes a GA inactivating enzyme, under the control of the MEDEA (MEA) promoter. Expression of MEA:PsGA2ox2 in Arabidopsis caused seed abortion, demonstrating that active GAs in the endosperm are essential for normal seed development. MEA:PsGA2ox2 plants had reduced ovule number per ovary and exhibited defects in phyllotaxy and leaf morphology which were partly suppressed by GA treatment. The leaf architecture and phyllotaxy defects of MEA:PsGA2ox2 plants were also restored by sly1-d which reduces DELLA protein stability to increase GA response. MEA:PsGA2ox2 seedlings had increased expression of the KNOTTED1-like homeobox (KNOX) genes, BP, KNAT2 and KNAT6, which are known to control plant architecture. The expression of KNOX genes is also altered in wild-type plants treated with GA. These results support the conclusion that GAs can suppress the effects of elevated KNOX gene expression, and raise the possibility that localized changes in GA levels caused by PsGA2ox2 alter the expression of KNOX genes to modify plant architecture.
In plant cells, antioxidants keep reactive oxygen species at low concentrations, avoiding oxidative damage while allowing them to play crucial functions in signal transduction. However, little is known about the role of antioxidants during fruit maturation, especially in legumes. Snap pea (Pisum sativum) plants, which have edible fruits, were grown under nodulating and non-nodulating conditions. Fruits were classified in three maturity stages and antioxidants were determined in the seeds and seedless pods. Maturation or prolonged storage of fruits at 25 degrees C led to a decline in antioxidant activities and metabolites and in gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase protein. Notable exceptions were superoxide dismutase activity and glutathione peroxidase protein, which increased in one or both of these processes. During maturation, cytosolic peroxiredoxin decreased in seeds but increased in pods, and ascorbate oxidase activity was largely reduced in seeds. In stored fruits, ascorbate oxidase activity was nearly abolished in seeds but doubled in pods. It is concluded that symbiotic nitrogen fixation is as effective as nitrogen fertilization in maintaining the antioxidant capacity of pea fruits and that, contrary to climacteric fruits, a general decrease in antioxidants during maturation does not involve oxidative stress. Results underscore the importance of the antioxidant system in reproductive organs and point to ascorbate-glutathione metabolism and cytosolic peroxiredoxin as key players in pea fruit development.
Salinity stress is one of the major factors which reduce crop plants growth and productivity resulting in significant economic losses worldwide. Therefore, it would be fruitful to isolate and functionally identify new salinity stress-induced genes for understanding the mechanism and developing salinity stress tolerant plants. Based on functional gene screening assay, we have isolated few salinity tolerant genes out of one million Escherichia coli (SOLR) transformants containing pea cDNAs. Sequence analysis of three of these genes revealed homology to Ribosomal-L30E (RPL30E), Chlorophyll-a/b-binding protein (Chla/bBP) and FIDDLEHEAD (FDH). The salinity tolerance of these genes in bacteria was further confirmed by using another strain of E. coli (DH5alpha) transformants. The homology based computational modeling of these proteins suggested the high degree of conservation with the conserved domains of their homologous partners. The reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis showed that the expression of these cDNAs (except the FDH) was upregulated in pea plants in response to NaCl stress. We observed that there was no significant effect of Li(+) ion on the expression level of these genes, while an increase in response to K(+) ion was observed. Overall, this study provides an evidence for a novel function of these genes in high salinity stress tolerance. The PsFDH showed constitutive expression in planta suggesting that it can be used as constitutively expressed marker gene for salinity stress tolerance in plants. This study brings new direction in identifying novel function of unidentified genes in abiotic stress tolerance without previous knowledge of the genome sequence.
Although essential for normal seed development in the legumes, the metabolic role of the endosperm remains uncertain. We designed noninvasive nuclear magnetic resonance tools for the in vivo study of key metabolites in the transient liquid endosperm of intact pea (Pisum sativum) seeds. The steady-state levels of sucrose, glutamine, and alanine could be monitored and their distribution within the embryo sac visualized. Seed structure was digitalized as a three-dimensional model, providing volume information for distinct seed organs. The nuclear magnetic resonance method, combined with laser microdissection, isotope labeling, in situ hybridization, and electron microscopy, was used to contrast the wild-type endosperm with that of a mutant in which embryo growth is retarded. Expression of sequences encoding amino acid and sucrose transporters was up-regulated earlier in the endosperm than in the embryo, and this activity led to the accumulation of soluble metabolites in the endosperm vacuole. The endosperm provides a temporary source of nutrition, permits space for embryo growth, and acts as a buffer between the maternal organism and its offspring. The concentration of sucrose in the endosperm vacuole is developmentally controlled, while the total amount accumulated depends on the growth of the embryo. The endosperm concentration of glutamine is a limiting factor for protein storage. The properties of the endosperm ensure that the young embryo develops within a homeostatic environment, necessary to sustain embryogenesis. We argue for a degree of metabolite-mediated control exerted by the endosperm on the growth of, and assimilate storage by, the embryo.
Seeds of genetically modified (GM) peas (Pisum sativum L.) expressing the gene for alpha-amylase inhibitor-1 (alphaAI1) from the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L. cv. Tendergreen) exhibit resistance to the pea weevil (Bruchus pisorum). A proteomic analysis was carried out to compare seeds from GM pea lines expressing the bean alphaAI1 protein and the corresponding alphaAI1-free segregating lines and non-GM parental line to identify unintended alterations to the proteome of GM peas due to the introduction of the gene for alphaAI1. Proteomic analysis showed that in addition to the presence of alphaAI1, 33 other proteins were differentially accumulated in the alphaAI1-expressing GM lines compared with their non-GM parental line and these were grouped into five expression classes. Among these 33 proteins, only three were found to be associated with the expression of alphaAI1 in the GM pea lines. The accumulation of the remaining 30 proteins appears to be associated with Agrobacterium-mediated transformation events. Sixteen proteins were identified after MALDI-TOF-TOF analysis. About 56% of the identified proteins with altered accumulation in the GM pea were storage proteins including legumin, vicilin or convicilin, phaseolin, cupin and valosin-containing protein. Two proteins were uniquely expressed in the alphaAI1-expressing GM lines and one new protein was present in both the alphaAI1-expressing GM lines and their alphaAI1-free segregating lines, suggesting that both transgenesis and transformation events led to demonstrable changes in the proteomes of the GM lines tested.
The shoot apical meristem (SAM) is responsible for the development of all the above-ground parts of a plant. Our understanding of the SAM at the molecular level is incomplete. This study investigates the gene expression repertoire of SAMs in the garden pea (Pisum sativum). To this end, 10 346 EST sequences representing 7610 unique genes were generated from SAM cDNA libraries. These sequences, together with previously reported pea ESTs, were used to construct a 12K oligonucleotide array to identify genes with differential SAM expression, as compared to axillary meristems, root apical meristems, or non-meristematic tissues. A number of genes were identified, predominantly expressed in specific cell layers or domains of the SAM and thus are likely components of the gene networks involved in stem cell maintenance or the initiation of lateral organs. Further in situ hybridization analysis confirmed the spatial localization of some of these genes within the SAM. Our data also indicate the diversification of some gene expression patterns and hence functions in legume crop plants. A number of transcripts highly expressed in all three meristems have also been uncovered and these candidates may provide valuable insight into molecular networks that underpin the maintenance of meristematic functionality.
In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), the carotenoid cleavage dioxygenases MORE AXILLARY GROWTH3 (MAX3) and MAX4 act together with MAX1 to produce a strigolactone signaling molecule required for the inhibition of axillary bud outgrowth. We show that both MAX3 and MAX4 transcripts are positively auxin regulated in a manner similar to the orthologous genes from pea (Pisum sativum) and rice (Oryza sativa), supporting evolutionary conservation of this regulation in plants. This regulation is important for branching control because large auxin-related reductions in these transcripts are associated with increased axillary branching. Both transcripts are up-regulated in max mutants, and consistent with max mutants having increased auxin in the polar auxin transport stream, this feedback regulation involves auxin signaling. We suggest that both auxin and strigolactone have the capacity to modulate each other's levels and distribution in a dynamic feedback loop required for the coordinated control of axillary branching.
Differential in-gel electrophoresis showed contrasting effects of the transgenic expression of an alpha-amylase inhibitor from beans on the proteomes of two pea cultivars. One cultivar showed minor changes relative to its non-transgenic parent with only one protein changing by more than about twofold. Changes in the abundance of certain endogenous proteins in the other cultivar were of greater number and magnitude with some endogenous proteins undetected while some new protein spots appeared in the transgenic proteome. The sets of proteins with altered expression were generally different between the two cultivars. Some of the proteins that were differentially expressed were identified by MS. Most were seed storage globulins, which are sited together with the transgenic product. Some of the changes may be due to alterations in expression levels but there were also changes due to post-translational processing.
Marker-free transgenic white poplar (Populus alba L., cv 'Villafranca') plants, expressing the PsMT (A1) gene from Pisum sativum for a metallothionein-like protein, were produced by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. The 35SCaMV-PsMT (A1)-NosT cassette was inserted into the ipt-type vector pMAT22. The occurrence of the abnormal ipt-shooty phenotype allowed the visual selection of transformants, while the yeast site-specific recombination R/RS system was responsible for the excision of the undesired vector sequences with the consequent recovery of normal marker-free transgenic plants. Molecular analyses confirmed the presence of the 35SCaMV-PsMT (A1)-NosT cassette and transgene expression. Five selected lines were further characterized, revealing the ability to withstand heavy metal toxicity. They survived 0.1 mM CuCl(2), a concentration which strongly affected the nontransgenic plants. Moreover, root development was only slightly affected by the ectopic expression of the transgene. Reactive oxygen species were accumulated to a lower extent in leaf tissues of multi-auto-transformation (MAT)-PsMT(A1) plants exposed to copper and zinc, compared to control plants. Tolerance to photo-oxidative stress induced by paraquat was another distinctive feature of the MAT-PsMT(A1) lines. Finally, low levels of DNA damage were detected by quantifying the amounts of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine in leaf tissues of the transgenic plants exposed to copper.
Pisum sativum L., the garden pea crop plant, is serving as the unique model for genetic analyses of morphogenetic development of stipule, the lateral organ formed on either side of the junction of leafblade petiole and stem at nodes. The stipule reduced (st) and cochleata (coch) stipule mutations and afila (af), tendril-less (tl), multifoliate-pinna (mfp) and unifoliata-tendrilled acacia (uni-tac) leafblade mutations were variously combined and the recombinant genotypes were quantitatively phenotyped for stipule morphology at both vegetative and reproductive nodes. The observations suggest a role of master regulator to COCH in stipule development. COCH is essential for initiation, growth and development of stipule, represses the UNI-TAC, AF, TL and MFP led leafblade-like morphogenetic pathway for compound stipule and together with ST mediates the developmental pathway for peltate-shaped simple wild-type stipule. It is also shown that stipule is an autonomous lateral organ, like a leafblade and secondary inflorescence.
Vaccines against rabbit haemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV) are commercially produced in experimentally infected rabbits. A genetically engineered and manufactured version of the major structural protein of RHDV (VP60) is considered to be an alternative approach for vaccine production. Plants have the potential to become an excellent recombinant production system, but the low expression level and insufficient immunogenic potency of plant-derived VP60 still hamper its practical use. In this study, we analysed the expression of a novel multimeric VP60-based antigen in four different plant species, including Nicotiana tabacum L., Solanum tuberosum L., Brassica napus L. and Pisum sativum L. Significant differences were detected in the expression patterns of the novel fusion antigen cholera toxin B subunit (CTB)::VP60 (ctbvp60(SEKDEL)) at the mRNA and protein levels. Pentameric CTB::VP60 molecules were only detected in N. tabacum and P. sativum, and displayed equal levels of CTB, at approximately 0.01% of total soluble protein (TSP), and traces of detectable VP60. However, strong enhancement of the CTB protein content via self-fertilization was only observed in P. sativum, where it reached up to 0.7% of TSP. In rabbits, a strong decrease in the protective vaccine dose required from 48-400 microg potato-derived VP60 [Castanon, S., Marin, M.S., Martin-Alonso, J.M., Boga, J.A., Casais, R., Humara, J.M., Ordas, R.J. and Parra, F. (1999) Immunization with potato plants expressing VP60 protein protects against rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus. J. Virol. 73, 4452-4455; Castanon, S., Martin-Alonso, J.M., Marin, M.S., Boga, J.A., Alonso, P., Parra, F. and Ordas, R.J. (2002) The effect of the promoter on expression of VP60 gene from rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus in potato plants. Plant Sci. 162, 87-95] to 0.56-0.28 microg antigenic VP60 (measured with VP60 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) of crude CTB::VP60 pea extracts was demonstrated. Rabbits immunized with pea-derived CTB::VP60 showed anti-VP60-specific antibodies, similar to RikaVacc((R))-immunized rabbits, and survived RHDV challenge.
The garden pea has been a model for the genetics of flowering for several decades and numerous flowering loci have been identified, but until recently little was known about the molecular nature of these loci. This paper presents an update on recent work on the molecular genetics of flowering in pea, outlining progress in gene and mutant isolation, expression analyses, grafting and other physiological studies, and candidate gene assessment. Work so far has led to the identification of the LATE1 and DNE loci as orthologues of Arabidopsis GIGANTEA and ELF4, respectively, and candidate genes for several other loci are being evaluated. Expression analysis of an expanded FT-like gene family suggests a more complex role for this group of genes. These results provide the first insight into the circadian clock, photoperiod response mechanism, and mobile signals in pea, and identify both conserved and divergent features in comparison with Arabidopsis.
Modulation of photosynthesis and chloroplast biogenesis, by low and high temperatures, was studied in 12-d-old pea (Pisum sativum) plants grown at 25 degrees C and subsequently exposed to 7 degrees C or 40 degrees C up to 48 h. The decline in variable chlorophyll a fluorescence/maximum chlorophyll a fluorescence and estimated electron transport rate in temperature-stressed plants was substantially restored when they were transferred to room temperature. The ATP-driven import of precursor of small subunit of Rubisco (pRSS) into plastids was down-regulated by 67% and 49% in heat-stressed and chill-stressed plants, respectively. Reduction in binding of the pRSS to the chloroplast envelope membranes in heat-stressed plants could be due to the down-regulation of Toc159 gene/protein expression. In addition to impaired binding, reduced protein import into chloroplast in heat-stressed plants was likely due to decreased gene/protein expression of certain components of the TOC complex (Toc75), the TIC complex (Tic20, Tic32, Tic55, and Tic62), stromal Hsp93, and stromal processing peptidase. In chill-stressed plants, the gene/protein expression of most of the components of protein import apparatus other than Tic110 and Tic40 were not affected, suggesting the central role of Tic110 and Tic40 in inhibition of protein import at low temperature. Heating of intact chloroplasts at 35 degrees C for 10 min inhibited protein import, implying a low thermal stability of the protein import apparatus. Results demonstrate that in addition to decreased gene and protein expression, down-regulation of photosynthesis in temperature-stressed plants is caused by reduced posttranslational import of plastidic proteins required for the replacement of impaired proteins coded by nuclear genome.
To define the signalling events required for the activation of AON, we utilised approach grafts between wild-type pea plants and their mutants defective at successive stages of nodule formation. AON signalling strength was monitored by prior inoculation of mutant root portions (as so-called 'sensor') and quantifying nodule formation on connected roots of delayed inoculated wild type (the 'reporter'). Detectable AON sensing and associated signal exchange between root and shoot started after root hair curling but before the initiation of visible cortical and pericycle cell divisions. The strength of AON signalling was correlated with the stage of nodule development and size of nodule, with mature nitrogen-fixing nodules possessing the strongest AON-inducing signal. We demonstrated that the pea supernodulating mutant nod3 may function pre-NARK in the root. A model for the activation of AON signalling and its potential relationship with cell division, nitrogen fixation and/or cytokinin signal transduction are presented.
Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae forms nitrogen-fixing nodules on several legumes, including pea (Pisum sativum) and vetch (Vicia cracca), and has been widely used as a model to study nodule biochemistry. To understand the complex biochemical and developmental changes undergone by R. leguminosarum bv. viciae during bacteroid development, microarray experiments were first performed with cultured bacteria grown on a variety of carbon substrates (glucose, pyruvate, succinate, inositol, acetate, and acetoacetate) and then compared to bacteroids. Bacteroid metabolism is essentially that of dicarboxylate-grown cells (i.e., induction of dicarboxylate transport, gluconeogenesis and alanine synthesis, and repression of sugar utilization). The decarboxylating arm of the tricarboxylic acid cycle is highly induced, as is gamma-aminobutyrate metabolism, particularly in bacteroids from early (7-day) nodules. To investigate bacteroid development, gene expression in bacteroids was analyzed at 7, 15, and 21 days postinoculation of peas. This revealed that bacterial rRNA isolated from pea, but not vetch, is extensively processed in mature bacteroids. In early development (7 days), there were large changes in the expression of regulators, exported and cell surface molecules, multidrug exporters, and heat and cold shock proteins. fix genes were induced early but continued to increase in mature bacteroids, while nif genes were induced strongly in older bacteroids. Mutation of 37 genes that were strongly upregulated in mature bacteroids revealed that none were essential for nitrogen fixation. However, screening of 3,072 mini-Tn5 mutants on peas revealed previously uncharacterized genes essential for nitrogen fixation. These encoded a potential magnesium transporter, an AAA domain protein, and proteins involved in cytochrome synthesis.
Light regulation of gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis occurs in several species, but the signaling pathway through which this occurs has not been clearly established. We have isolated a new pea (Pisum sativum) mutant, long1, with a light-dependent elongated phenotype that is particularly pronounced in the epicotyl and first internode. The long1 mutation impairs signaling from phytochrome and cryptochrome photoreceptors and interacts genetically with a mutation in LIP1, the pea ortholog of Arabidopsis thaliana COP1. Mutant long1 seedlings show a dramatic impairment in the light regulation of active GA levels and the expression of several GA biosynthetic genes, most notably the GA catabolism gene GA2ox2. The long1 mutant carries a nonsense mutation in a gene orthologous to the ASTRAY gene from Lotus japonicus, a divergent ortholog of the Arabidopsis bZIP transcription factor gene HY5. Our results show that LONG1 has a central role in mediating the effects of light on GA biosynthesis in pea and demonstrate the importance of this regulation for appropriate photomorphogenic development. By contrast, LONG1 has no effect on GA responsiveness, implying that interactions between LONG1 and GA signaling are not a significant component of the molecular framework for light-GA interactions in pea.
In pea (Pisum sativum), normal fruit growth requires the presence of the seeds. The coordination of growth between the seed and ovary tissues involves phytohormones; however, the specific mechanisms remain speculative. This study further explores the roles of the gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis and catabolism genes during pollination and fruit development and in seed and auxin regulation of pericarp growth. Pollination and fertilization events not only increase pericarp PsGA3ox1 message levels (codes for GA 3-oxidase that converts GA(20) to bioactive GA(1)) but also reduce pericarp PsGA2ox1 mRNA levels (codes for GA 2-oxidase that mainly catabolizes GA(20) to GA(29)), suggesting a concerted regulation to increase levels of bioactive GA(1) following these events. 4-Chloroindole-3-acetic acid (4-Cl-IAA) was found to mimic the seeds in the stimulation of PsGA3ox1 and the repression of PsGA2ox1 mRNA levels as well as the stimulation of PsGA2ox2 mRNA levels (codes for GA 2-oxidase that mainly catabolizes GA(1) to GA(8)) in pericarp at 2 to 3 d after anthesis, while the other endogenous pea auxin, IAA, did not. This GA gene expression profile suggests that both seeds and 4-Cl-IAA can stimulate the production, as well as modulate the half-life, of bioactive GA(1), leading to initial fruit set and subsequent growth and development of the ovary. Consistent with these gene expression profiles, deseeded pericarps converted [(14)C]GA(12) to [(14)C]GA(1) only if treated with 4-Cl-IAA. These data further support the hypothesis that 4-Cl-IAA produced in the seeds is transported to the pericarp, where it differentially regulates the expression of pericarp GA biosynthesis and catabolism genes to modulate the level of bioactive GA(1) required for initial fruit set and growth.
Cadmium (Cd) toxicity has been widely studied in different plant species; however, the mechanism involved in its toxicity as well as the cell response against the metal have not been well established. In this work, using pea (Pisum sativum) plants, we studied the effect of Cd on antioxidants, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and nitric oxide (NO) metabolism of leaves using different cellular, molecular, and biochemical approaches. The growth of pea plants with 50 mum CdCl(2) affected differentially the expression of superoxide dismutase (SOD) isozymes at both transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels, giving rise to a SOD activity reduction. The copper/zinc-SOD down-regulation was apparently due to the calcium (Ca) deficiency induced by the heavy metal. In these circumstances, the overproduction of the ROS hydrogen peroxide and superoxide could be observed in vivo by confocal laser microscopy, mainly associated with vascular tissue, epidermis, and mesophyll cells, and the production of superoxide radicals was prevented by exogenous Ca. On the other hand, the NO synthase-dependent NO production was strongly depressed by Cd, and treatment with Ca prevented this effect. Under these conditions, the pathogen-related proteins PrP4A and chitinase and the heat shock protein 71.2, were up-regulated, probably to protect cells against damages induced by Cd. The regulation of these proteins could be mediated by jasmonic acid and ethylene, whose contents increased by Cd treatment. A model is proposed for the cellular response to long-term Cd exposure consisting of cross talk between Ca, ROS, and NO.
The plasma membrane H(+)-ATPase (PM H(+)-ATPase, EC.3.6.1.35) plays a key role in the plant response to environmental stress. In this study, a possible mechanistic link between the PM H(+)-ATPase and salicylic acid (SA)-induced thermotolerance was investigated in pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. NingXia) leaves. The burst of free SA in response to heat acclimation (38 +/- 0.5 degrees C) was observed, and peaks appeared subsequently both in activity and amount of PM H(+)-ATPase in pea leaves during heat acclimation. Similarly, exogenous SA also triggered the two peaks in the room temperature (25 +/- 0.5 degrees C). Paclobutrazol (PAC) was employed to infiltrate onto pea leaves prior to heat acclimation treatment. The results showed that the peaks of both free SA and activity of PM H(+)-ATPase still occurred after the PAC pretreatment. In acquired thermotolerance assessment (malondialdehyde content and degree of wilting), spraying SA and fusicoccin (FC, the activator of PM H(+)-ATPase) separately could protect pea leaves from heat injury. Results from RT-PCR and western blotting analysis indicated that the increase in activity of the PM H(+)-ATPase was due to its transcriptional and translational regulation. The subcellular localizations of PM H(+)-ATPase after the FC or SA pretreatment also showed that the PM H(+)-ATPase is important to maintain the integrity of plasma membrane against the heat stress. Taken together, these results suggest PM H(+)-ATPase is related to the development of SA-induced thermotolerance in pea leaves.
Many processes have been described in the control of shoot branching. Apical dominance is defined as the control exerted by the shoot tip on the outgrowth of axillary buds, whereas correlative inhibition includes the suppression of growth by other growing buds or shoots. The level, signaling, and/or flow of the plant hormone auxin in stems and buds is thought to be involved in these processes. In addition, RAMOSUS (RMS) branching genes in pea (Pisum sativum) control the synthesis and perception of a long-distance inhibitory branching signal produced in the stem and roots, a strigolactone or product. Auxin treatment affects the expression of RMS genes, but it is unclear whether the RMS network can regulate branching independently of auxin. Here, we explore whether apical dominance and correlative inhibition show independent or additive effects in rms mutant plants. Bud outgrowth and branch lengths are enhanced in decapitated and stem-girdled rms mutants compared with intact control plants. This may relate to an RMS-independent induction of axillary bud outgrowth by these treatments. Correlative inhibition was also apparent in rms mutant plants, again indicating an RMS-independent component. Treatments giving reductions in RMS1 and RMS5 gene expression, auxin transport, and auxin level in the main stem were not always sufficient to promote bud outgrowth. We suggest that this may relate to a failure to induce the expression of cytokinin biosynthesis genes, which always correlated with bud outgrowth in our treatments. We present a new model that accounts for apical dominance, correlative inhibition, RMS gene action, and auxin and cytokinin and their interactions in controlling the progression of buds through different control points from dormancy to sustained growth.
Tendrils are contact-sensitive, filamentous organs that permit climbing plants to tether to their taller neighbors. Tendrilled legume species are grown as field crops, where the tendrils contribute to the physical support of the crop prior to harvest. The homeotic tendril-less (tl) mutation in garden pea (Pisum sativum), identified almost a century ago, transforms tendrils into leaflets. In this study, we used a systematic marker screen of fast neutron-generated tl deletion mutants to identify Tl as a Class I homeodomain leucine zipper (HDZIP) transcription factor. We confirmed the tendril-less phenotype as loss of function by targeting induced local lesions in genomes (TILLING) in garden pea and by analysis of the tendril-less phenotype of the t mutant in sweet pea (Lathyrus odoratus). The conversion of tendrils into leaflets in both mutants demonstrates that the pea tendril is a modified leaflet, inhibited from completing laminar development by Tl. We provide evidence to show that lamina inhibition requires Unifoliata/LEAFY-mediated Tl expression in organs emerging in the distal region of the leaf primordium. Phylogenetic analyses show that Tl is an unusual Class I HDZIP protein and that tendrils evolved either once or twice in Papilionoid legumes. We suggest that tendrils arose in the Fabeae clade of Papilionoid legumes through acquisition of the Tl gene.
CcGA20ox1 is a gene encoding a GA 20-oxidase, a gibberellin (GA) biosynthetic enzyme, previously isolated from the citrus hybrid Carrizo citrange (Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck x Poncirus trifoliata (L.) Raf.). Southern blot analysis of genomic DNA of Carrizo citrange with CcGA20ox1 suggested the presence in the hybrid of another gene encoding another GA 20-oxidase. A cDNA clone from this new gene (CcGA20ox2) was isolated using RNA from the other parent C. sinensis. CcGA20ox2 encoded a protein of 372 amino acids that showed 67.1% identity with CcGA20ox1, and its expression product catalyzed the in vitro conversion of GA12 to GA9, confirming that it corresponds to another active GA20ox. Amplification of genomic DNA and isolation of genomic clones of CcGA20ox1 and CcGA20ox2 revealed that the parental sources of these genes in the hybrid were P. trifoliata and C. sinensis, respectively. The sequences of CcGA20ox1 and CcGA20ox2 showed that both genes contained two introns, which are also conserved in GA20ox genes of other species like Arabidopsis thaliana L., Pisum sativum L. and Solanum lycopersicum L. Determination of transcript levels in the Carrizo citrange hybrid by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction showed that CcGA20ox1 was expressed mainly in internodes, leaves and seeds, and CcGA20ox2 in flower buds and flowers at anthesis, with the genes having similar transcript levels in young developing fruits.
G2 pea exhibits an apical senescence delaying phenotype under short-day (SD) conditions; however, the structural basis for its apical development is still largely unknown. In the present study, the apical meristem of SD-grown G2 pea plants underwent a transition from vegetative to indeterminate inflorescence meristem, but the apical meristem of long-day (LD)-grown G2 pea plants would be further converted to determinate floral meristem. Both SD signal and GA(3) treatment enhanced expression of the putative calcium transporter PPF1, and pea homologs of TFL1 (LF and DET), whereas LD signal suppressed their expression at 60 d post-flowering compared with those at 40 d post-flowering. Both PPF1 and LF expressed at the vegetative and reproductive phases in SD-grown apical buds, but floral initiation obviously increased the expression level of PPF1 compared with the unchanged expression level of LF from 40 to 60 d post-flowering. In addition, although the floral initiation significantly enhanced the expression levels of PPF1 and DET, DET was mainly expressed after floral initiation in SD-grown apical buds. Therefore, the main structural difference between LD- and SD-grown apical meristem in G2 pea lies in whether their apical indeterminate inflorescence meristem could be converted to the determinate structure.
A suppression subtraction hybridization (SSH) cDNA library had been constructed to identify differentially expressed genes. Based on the sequence of an expressed sequence tag (EST) homologous to Pisum sativum zinc finger protein mRNA (Accession number: AF160911), the full-length cDNA of 1,676 nucleotides was cloned from alfalfa by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). It was designated as MsZFN, encoding a protein of 418 amino acids. The amino acid sequence compared by blast revealed high homology with zinc finger protein of other plants. Sequence comparison showed that there were five conserved typical zinc finger motifs, and one sugar transfer protein signature. The calculated molecular weight of the MsZFN protein was 45.8 k Da, and theoretical isoelectric point was 8.13. The MsZFN localized in nucleus. Under normal growth conditions, differential expression of MsZFN exhibited that the expression was the highest in leaf and the lowest in root. MsZFN was quickly and transiently induced by NaCl treatment and reached its maximum at 30 min.
The wild-type strain (Cl-WT) of Clover yellow vein virus (ClYVV) systemically induces cell death in pea cv. Plant introduction (PI) 118501 but not in PI 226564. A single incompletely dominant gene, Cyn1, controls systemic cell death in PI 118501. Here, we show that activation of the salicylic acid (SA) signaling pathway enhances ClYVV virulence in susceptible pea cultivars. The kinetics of virus accumulation was not significantly different between PI 118501 (Cyn1) and PI 226564 (cyn1); however, the SA-responsive chitinase gene (SA-CHI) and the hypersensitive response (HR)-related gene homologous to tobacco HSR203J were induced only in PI 118501 (Cyn1). Two mutant viruses with mutations in P1/HCPro, which is an RNA-silencing suppressor, reduced the ability to induce cell death and SA-CHI expression. The application of SA and of its analog benzo (1,2,3) thiadiazole-7-carbothioic acid S-methyl ester (BTH) partially complemented the reduced virulence of mutant viruses. These results suggest that high activation of the SA signaling pathway is required for ClYVV virulence. Interestingly, BTH could enhance Cl-WT symptoms in PI 226564 (cyn1). However, it could not enhance symptoms induced by White clover mosaic virus and Bean yellow mosaic virus. Our report suggests that the SA signaling pathway has opposing functions in compatible interactions, depending on the virus-host combination.
Spontaneous mutants of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae 3841 were isolated that grow faster than the wild type on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) as the sole carbon and nitrogen source. These strains (RU1736 and RU1816) have frameshift mutations (gtsR101 and gtsR102, respectively) in a GntR-type regulator (GtsR) that result in a high rate of constitutive GABA transport. Tn5 mutagenesis and quantitative reverse transcription-PCR showed that GstR regulates expression of a large operon (pRL100242 to pRL100252) on the Sym plasmid that is required for GABA uptake. An ABC transport system, GtsABCD (for GABA transport system) (pRL100248-51), of the spermidine/putrescine family is part of this operon. GtsA is a periplasmic binding protein, GtsB and GtsC are integral membrane proteins, and GtsD is an ATP-binding subunit. Expression of gtsABCD from a lacZ promoter confirmed that it alone is responsible for high rates of GABA transport, enabling rapid growth of strain 3841 on GABA. Gts transports open-chain compounds with four or five carbon atoms with carboxyl and amino groups at, or close to, opposite termini. However, aromatic compounds with similar spacing between carboxyl and amino groups are excellent inhibitors of GABA uptake so they may also be transported. In addition to the ABC transporter, the operon contains two putative mono-oxygenases, a putative hydrolase, a putative aldehyde dehydrogenase, and a succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenase. This suggests the operon may be involved in the transport and breakdown of a more complex precursor to GABA. Gts is not expressed in pea bacteroids, and gtsB mutants are unaltered in their symbiotic phenotype, suggesting that Bra is the only GABA transport system available for amino acid cycling.
Diversity in leaf shape is produced by alterations of the margin: for example, deep dissection leads to leaflet formation and less-pronounced incision results in serrations or lobes. By combining gene silencing and mutant analyses in four distantly related eudicot species, we show that reducing the function of NAM/CUC boundary genes (NO APICAL MERISTEM and CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON) leads to a suppression of all marginal outgrowths and to fewer and fused leaflets. We propose that NAM/CUC genes promote formation of a boundary domain that delimits leaflets. This domain has a dual role promoting leaflet separation locally and leaflet formation at distance. In this manner, boundaries of compound leaves resemble boundaries functioning during animal development.
Pea (Pisum sativum L.) is the most cultivated European pulse crop and the pea seeds mainly serve as a protein source for monogastric animals. Because the seed protein composition impacts on seed nutritional value, we aimed at identifying the determinants of its variability. This paper presents the first pea mature seed proteome reference map, which includes 156 identified proteins (http://www.inra.fr/legumbase/peaseedmap/). This map provides a fine dissection of the pea seed storage protein composition revealing a large diversity of storage proteins resulting both from gene diversity and post-translational processing. It gives new insights into the pea storage protein processing (especially 7S globulins) as a possible adaptation towards progressive mobilization of the proteins during germination. The nonstorage seed proteome revealed the presence of proteins involved in seed defense together with proteins preparing germination. The plasticity of the seed proteome was revealed for seeds produced in three successive years of cultivation, and 30% of the spots were affected by environmental variations. This work pinpoints seed proteins most affected by environment, highlighting new targets to stabilize storage protein composition that should be further analyzed.
* Tetrahydrofolate derivatives are central cofactors of C1 metabolism. Using methotrexate as a specific inhibitor of folate biosynthesis, we altered the folate status in 10-d-old etiolated pea (Pisum sativum) leaves and followed the rate of chlorophyll synthesis upon illumination. * In our conditions, the folate concentration decreased only from 5.7 to 4.2 nmol g(-1) FW, but the amount of chlorophyll after 24 h of illumination was reduced 2.5 times. Folate status and rate of chlorophyll synthesis were apparently correlated through the methyl cycle. * Indeed, we observed that methyl-tetrahydrofolate was the folate derivative most affected by the treatment; the decrease of methyl-tetrahydrofolate was associated with a sharp rise in homocysteine and S-adenosylhomocysteine concentrations, which are normally maintained at very low values, shifting the methylation index (S-adenosylmethionine/S-adenosylhomocysteine ratio) from 7 to 1; the decrease of the methylation index reduced by a factor of 3 the activity of the Mg-protoporphyrin IX methyltransferase (CHLM), an essential enzyme for chlorophyll synthesis. CHLM gene expression and protein concentration remained unchanged, suggesting that this inhibition relied essentially on metabolic regulation. * These results point out that an even moderate change in the folate status may affect plant development and adaptation.
Apyrases are non-energy-coupled nucleotide phosphohydrolases that hydrolyze nucleoside triphosphates and nucleoside diphosphates to nucleoside monophosphates and orthophosphates. GS52, a soybean (Glycine soja) ecto-apyrase, was previously shown to be induced very early in response to inoculation with the symbiotic bacterium Bradyrhizobium japonicum. Overexpression of the GS52 ecto-apyrase in Lotus japonicus increased the level of rhizobial infection and enhanced nodulation. These data suggest a critical role for the GS52 ecto-apyrase during nodulation. To further investigate the role of GS52 during nodulation, we used RNA interference to silence GS52 expression in soybean (Glycine max) roots using Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated root transformation. Transcript levels of GS52 were significantly reduced in GS52 silenced roots and these roots exhibited reduced numbers of mature nodules. Development of the nodule primordium and subsequent nodule maturation was significantly suppressed in GS52 silenced roots. Transmission electron micrographs of GS52 silenced root nodules showed that early senescence and infected cortical cells were devoid of symbiosome-containing bacteroids. Application of exogenous adenosine diphosphate to silenced GS52 roots restored nodule development. Restored nodules contained bacteroids, thus indicating that extracellular adenosine diphosphate is important during nodulation. These results clearly suggest that GS52 ecto-apyrase catalytic activity is critical for the early B. japonicum infection process, initiation of nodule primordium development, and subsequent nodule organogenesis in soybean.
Pea enation mosaic virus (PEMV: family Luteoviridae) is transmitted in a persistent, circulative manner by aphids. We inserted cDNAs encoding the structural proteins of PEMV, the coat protein (CP) and coat protein-read through domain (CPRT) into the genome of the baculovirus Autographa californica multiple nucleopolyhedrovirus with and without a histidine tag or an upstream Kozak consensus sequence. The Sf21 cell line provided the highest level of CP expression of the cell lines tested and resulted in production of virus-like particles (VLPs). The CPRT was not detected in recombinant baculovirus-infected cells by Western blot. Addition of a Kozak sequence increased the yield of baculovirus produced VLPs. Baculovirus-expressed VLPs purified on a nickel NTA column were of variable size (13-30 nm) and contained CP mRNA. The purified VLPs were also shown by RT-PCR to contain 70% of 154 baculovirus mRNAs, indicative of non-specific RNA encapsidation in the absence of viral RNA replication. When fed to the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris), the VLPs entered the aphid hemocoel, demonstrating that CPRT is not required for uptake of PEMV from the aphid gut. Baculovirus expression of PEMV VLPs provides a useful tool for future analysis of RNA encapsidation requirements and molecular aphid-virus interactions.
It has been shown that some dietary plant proteins beneficially influence lipid metabolism in animals. The effect of pea protein in this respect however has not yet been investigated. Therefore, we studied the effect of purified pea protein on the lipid metabolism in rats. Twenty-four rats received diets with either 200 g/kg of casein or purified pea protein for 16 days. Concentrations of triacylglycerols in liver, plasma and lipoproteins did not differ between both groups of rats. However, rats fed the pea protein diet had a lower concentration of total cholesterol in the liver and the very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) fraction than rats fed the casein diet (p < 0.05); cholesterol concentration in plasma, low density lipoproteins (LDL) and high density lipoproteins (HDL) did not differ between both groups. Rats fed pea protein moreover had an increased mRNA concentration of cholesterol-7alpha-hydroxylase in the liver and an increased amount of bile acids excreted via faeces compared with rats fed casein (p < 0.05). Concomitantly, mRNA concentrations of sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-2 and its target genes 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase and LDL receptor in the liver were increased in rats fed pea protein (p < 0.05). The data of this study suggests that pea protein stimulates formation and excretion of bile acids, which leads to a reduced hepatic cholesterol concentration and a reduced secretion of cholesterol via VLDL. An increased gene expression of SREBP-2 and its target genes HMG-CoA reductase and LDL receptor may be a means to compensate for the increased loss of cholesterol for bile acid synthesis.
We present a comprehensive analysis of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGP)-repressed pea (Pisum sativum) seeds using transcript and metabolite profiling to monitor the effects that reduced carbon flow into starch has on carbon-nitrogen metabolism and related pathways. Changed patterns of transcripts and metabolites suggest that AGP repression causes sugar accumulation and stimulates carbohydrate oxidation via glycolysis, tricarboxylic acid cycle, and mitochondrial respiration. Enhanced provision of precursors such as acetyl-coenzyme A and organic acids apparently support other pathways and activate amino acid and storage protein biosynthesis as well as pathways fed by cytosolic acetyl-coenzyme A, such as cysteine biosynthesis and fatty acid elongation/metabolism. As a consequence, the resulting higher nitrogen (N) demand depletes transient N storage pools, specifically asparagine and arginine, and leads to N limitation. Moreover, increased sugar accumulation appears to stimulate cytokinin-mediated cell proliferation pathways. In addition, the deregulation of starch biosynthesis resulted in indirect changes, such as increased mitochondrial metabolism and osmotic stress. The combined effect of these changes is an enhanced generation of reactive oxygen species coupled with an up-regulation of energy-dissipating, reactive oxygen species protection, and defense genes. Transcriptional activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways and oxylipin synthesis indicates an additional activation of stress signaling pathways. AGP-repressed embryos contain higher levels of jasmonate derivatives; however, this increase is preferentially in nonactive forms. The results suggest that, although metabolic/osmotic alterations in iAGP pea seeds result in multiple stress responses, pea seeds have effective mechanisms to circumvent stress signaling under conditions in which excessive stress responses and/or cellular damage could prematurely initiate senescence or apoptosis.
Mechanistic inter-relationships in sinks between sucrose compartmentation/metabolism and phloem unloading/translocation are poorly understood. Developing grain legume seeds provide tractable experimental systems to explore this question. Metabolic demand by cotyledons is communicated to phloem unloading and ultimately import by sucrose withdrawal from the seed apoplasmic space via a turgor-homeostat mechanism. What is unknown is how metabolic demand is communicated to cotyledon sucrose transporters responsible for withdrawing sucrose from the apoplasmic space. This question was explored here using a pea rugosus mutant (rrRbRb) compromised in starch biosynthesis compared with its wild-type counterpart (RRRbRb). Sucrose influx into cotyledons was found to account for 90% of developmental variations in their absolute growth and hence starch biosynthetic rates. Furthermore, rr and RR cotyledons shared identical response surfaces, indicating that control of transporter activity was likely to be similar for both lines. In this context, sucrose influx was correlated positively with expression of a sucrose/H(+) symporter (PsSUT1) and negatively with two sucrose facilitators (PsSUF1 and PsSUF4). Sucrose influx exhibited a negative curvilinear relationship with cotyledon concentrations of sucrose and hexoses. In contrast, the impact of intracellular sugars on transporter expression was transporter dependent, with expression of PsSUT1 inhibited, PsSUF1 unaffected, and PsSUF4 enhanced by sugars. Sugar supply to, and sugar concentrations of, RR cotyledons were manipulated using in vitro pod and cotyledon culture. Collectively the results obtained showed that intracellular sucrose was the physiologically active sugar signal that communicated metabolic demand to sucrose influx and this transport function was primarily determined by PsSUT1 regulated at the transcriptional level.
In chloroplasts and bacteria, the Tat (twin-arginine translocation) system is engaged in transporting folded passenger proteins across the thylakoid and cytoplasmic membranes, respectively. To date, three membrane proteins (TatA, TatB, and TatC) have been identified to be essential for Tat-dependent protein translocation in the plant system, whereas soluble factors seem not to be required. In contrast, in the bacterial system, several cytosolic chaperones were described to be involved in Tat transport processes. Therefore, we have examined whether stromal or peripherally associated membrane proteins also play a role in Tat transport across the thylakoid membrane. Analyzing both authentic precursors as well as the chimeric 16/23 protein, which allows us to study each step of the translocation process individually, we demonstrate that a soluble form of TatA is present in the chloroplast stroma, which significantly improves the efficiency of Tat-dependent protein transport. Furthermore, this soluble TatA is able to reconstitute the Tat transport properties of thylakoid membranes that are transport-incompetent due to extraction with solutions of chaotropic salts.
During the spring of 2007, pea plants (Pisum sativum L.) (cvs. Utrillo and Floreta) showing virus-like symptoms were observed in several commercial fields in the southern and eastern regions of Catalonia, Spain. Incidence of symptomatic plants ranged from 5 to 15% and was distributed in both small and large patches. Infected plants exhibited yellow mosaic leaf symptoms that later became translucent. Leaves gradually curled and in some cases developed enations near the veins on the abaxial surface. Plants were "bushy" and had shortened internodes. Infection prior to pod formation resulted in pods that were distorted and stunted (1). The infected leaves and pods were tested by indirect-ELISA with a potyvirus-specific antibody (Agdia, Elkhart, IN) and double-antibody sandwich (DAS)-ELISA with antibodies specific to Pea enation mosaic virus (PEMV), Broad bean wilt virus 1 (BBWV-1), Beet western yellow virus (BWYV), Bean yellow mosaic virus (BYMV), Alfalfa mosaic virus (AMV), and Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV) (Loewe Biochemica GmbH, Sauerlach, Germany). PEMV was detected in all 24 symptomatic samples that were collected from 10 locations between March 2007 and March 2008. Thirteen of these samples also tested positive for BWYV, but no differences in symptom expression were observed in plants infected with both viruses or PEMV alone. PEMV was also identified in seven broad bean plants (Vicia faba L.) from three additional locations. These plants expressed interveinal yellow mosaic on leaves and deformed pods. The genomic sequence of PEMV-1 (GenBank Accession No. L04573) was used to design primers to amplify a 451-nt segment of the polymerase gene by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR; PEMV-D (5'-TGACCATGAGTCCACTGAGG-3'), PEMV-R (5'-AGTATCTTCCAACAACCACAT-3'). One ELISA-positive sample was analyzed and the expected size amplicon was generated. Direct sequencing (GenBank Accession No. EU652339) revealed that PEMV-1 and our pea isolate have nucleotide sequence identities of 95%. To our knowledge, this is the first report of PEMV in Spain, which might cause important economical losses since PEMV is an important viral disease of pea and other legumes worldwide. Reference: (1) J. S. Skaf and G. A. Zoeten. No. 372 (No. 257 revised) in: Description of Plant Viruses. AAB, Kew, Surrey, England, 2000.
In Pisum sativum, the short-chain alcohol dehydrogenase-like protein (SAD) gene family consists of at least three members (SAD-A, -B, and -C). Expression of two of these genes (SAD-A and -C) in Escherichia coli or Pichia pastoris resulted in full-length soluble proteins. Purified SAD-A was used as antigen for antibody production in rabbits. With these antibodies the recombinant SAD-C protein (which was most highly expressed of the two isoforms) was shown to be a tetramer consisting of a dimer of dimers. The SAD genes are transiently expressed in plants by short exposures to ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B), as judged by northern blotting. In turn, mRNA accumulation leads to formation of SAD protein in leaf and stem tissue upon prolonged UV-B irradiation.
Pathogenesis-related proteins belonging to group 10 (PR10) are elevated in response to biotic and abiotic stresses in plants. Previously, we have shown a drastic salinity-induced increase in the levels of ABR17, a member of the PR10 family, in pea. Furthermore, we have also demonstrated that the constitutive expression of pea ABR17 cDNA in Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica napus enhances their germination and early seedling growth under stress. Although it has been reported that several members of the PR10 family including ABR17 possess RNase activity, the exact mechanism by which the aforementioned characteristics are conferred by ABR17 is unknown at this time. We hypothesized that a study of differences in transcriptome between wild type (WT) and ABR17 transgenic A. thaliana may shed light on this process. The molecular changes brought about by the expression of pea ABR17 cDNA in A. thaliana in the presence or absence of salt stress were investigated using microarrays consisting of 70-mer oligonucleotide probes representing 23,686 Arabidopsis genes. Statistical analysis identified number of genes which were over represented among up- or down-regulated transcripts in the transgenic line. Our results highlight the important roles of many abscisic acid (ABA) and cytokinin (CK) responsive genes in ABR17 transgenic lines. Although the transcriptional changes followed a general salt response theme in both WT and transgenic seedlings under salt stress, many genes exhibited differential expression patterns when the transgenic and WT lines were compared. These genes include plant defensins, heat shock proteins, other defense related genes, and several transcriptional factors. Our microarray results for selected genes were validated using quantitative real-time PCR. Transcriptional analysis in ABR17 transgenic Arabidopsis plants, both under normal and saline conditions, revealed significant changes in abundance of transcripts for many stress responsive genes, as well as those related to plant growth and development. Our results also suggest that ABR17 may mediate stress tolerance through the modulation of many ABA- and CK-responsive genes and may further our understanding of the role of ABR17 in mediating plant stress responses.
Ogre elements are a distinct group of plant Ty3/gypsy-like retrotransposons characterized by several specific features, one of which is a separation of the gag-pol region into two non-overlapping open reading frames: ORF2 coding for Gag-Pro, and ORF3 coding for RT/RH-INT proteins. Previous characterization of Ogre elements from several plant species revealed that part of their transcripts lacks the region between ORF2 and ORF3, carrying one uninterrupted ORF instead. In this work, we investigated a hypothesis that this region represents an intron that is spliced out from part of the Ogre transcripts as a means for preferential production of ORF2-encoded proteins over those encoded by the complete ORF2-ORF3 region. The experiments involved analysis of transcription patterns of well-defined Ogre populations in a model plant Medicago truncatula and examination of transcripts carrying dissected pea Ogre intron expressed within a coding sequence of chimeric reporter gene. Both experimental approaches proved that the region between ORF2 and ORF3 is spliced from Ogre transcripts and showed that this process is only partial, probably due to weak splice signals. This is one of very few known cases of spliced LTR retrotransposons and the only one where splicing does not involve parts of the element's coding sequences, thus resembling intron splicing found in most cellular genes.
alpha-Dioxygenases are expressed in plants in response to biotic and abiotic stress. They catalyze the enantioselective 2-hydroperoxidation of long-chain fatty acids, the initial step of the alpha-oxidation pathway of fatty acids in plants. In this study, the complete cDNA of an alpha-dioxygenase from germinating pea seeds (Pisum sativum) is presented. The deduced amino acid sequence establishes that the enzyme belongs to the recently characterized family of alpha-dioxygenating enzymes in plants. We also present the first systematic study on the expression of alpha-dioxygenase in germinating and developing pea plants. During germination, alpha-dioxygenase mRNA accumulates in the cotyledons and the embryonic axis of pea seeds de novo. In developing pea plants, the transcript is detected almost exclusively in roots. The accumulation of alpha-dioxygenase protein parallels transcript accumulation in that it is abundant in germinating as well as young plant tissue, and correlates with loss of mRNA during plant maturation. alpha-Dioxygenase enzymatic activity in plant extracts is highest in cotyledons during imbibition. In the embryonic axis and roots of developing plants comparable activity levels are observed, whereas in shoots little alpha-oxidation activity is detected. With this contribution, we present information on the temporal and spatial expression of alpha-dioxygenase during plant germination and development, supporting the hypothesis that the alpha-oxidation pathway of fatty acids plays a role during plant developmental processes.
Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae 3841 contains six putative quaternary ammonium transporters (Qat), of the ABC family. Qat6 was strongly induced by hyperosmosis although the solute transported was not identified. All six systems were induced by the quaternary amines choline and glycine betaine. It was confirmed by microarray analysis of the genome that pRL100079-83 (qat6) is the most strongly upregulated transport system under osmotic stress, although other transporters and 104 genes are more than threefold upregulated. A range of quaternary ammonium compounds were tested but all failed to improve growth of strain 3841 under hyperosmotic stress. One Qat system (gbcXWV) was induced 20-fold by glycine betaine and choline and a Tn5::gbcW mutant was severely impaired for both transport and growth on these compounds, demonstrating that it is the principal system for their use as carbon and nitrogen sources. It transports glycine betaine and choline with a high affinity (apparent K(m), 168 and 294 nM, respectively).
Floral zygomorphy (flowers with bilateral symmetry) has multiple origins and typically manifests two kinds of asymmetries, dorsoventral (DV) and organ internal (IN) asymmetries in floral and organ planes, respectively, revealing the underlying key regulators in plant genomes that generate and superimpose various mechanisms to build up complexity and different floral forms during plant development. In this study, we investigate the loci affecting these asymmetries during the development of floral zygomorphy in pea (Pisum sativum L.). Two genes, LOBED STANDARD 1 (LST1) and KEELED WINGS (K), were cloned that encode TCP transcription factors and have divergent functions to constitute the DV asymmetry. A previously undescribed regulator, SYMMETRIC PETALS 1 (SYP1), has been isolated as controlling IN asymmetry. Genetic analysis demonstrates that DV and IN asymmetries could be controlled independently by the two kinds of regulators in pea, and their interactions help to specify the type of zygomorphy. Based on the genetic analysis in pea, we suggest that variation in both the functions and interactions of these regulators could give rise to the wide spectrum of floral symmetries among legume species and other flowering plants.
Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) can provide a shortcut to plants with altered expression of specific genes. Here, we report that VIGS of the Nodule inception gene (Nin) can alter the nodulation phenotype and Nin gene expression in Pisum sativum. PsNin was chosen as target because of the distinct non-nodulating phenotype of nin mutants in P. sativum, Lotus japonicus, and Medicago truncatula. The vector based on Pea early browning virus (PEBV) was engineered to carry one of three nonoverlapping fragments (PsNinA, PsNinB, and PsNinC) derived from the PsNin cDNA. Vector inoculation was mediated by agroinfiltration and, 2 weeks later, a Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viceae culture was added in order to induce root nodulation. At this time point, it was estimated that systemic silencing was established because leaves of reference plants inoculated with PEBV carrying a fragment of Phytoene desaturase displayed photo bleaching. Three weeks after Rhizobium spp. application, plants inoculated with a control vector nodulated normally, whereas nodulation was almost eliminated in plants inoculated with a vector carrying PsNinA and PsNinC. For plants inoculated with a vector carrying PsNinB, nodulation was reduced by at least 45%. Down-regulation of PsNin transcripts in plants inoculated with vectors carrying PsNin cDNA fragments was confirmed and these plants displayed a relative increase in the root/shoot ratio, as expected if nitrogen fixation had been impaired.
Despite the importance of the shoot apical meristem (SAM) in plant development and organ formation, our understanding of the molecular mechanisms controlling its function is limited. Genomic tools have the potential to unravel the molecular mysteries of the SAM, and legume systems are increasingly being used in plant-development studies owing to their unique characteristics such as nitrogen fixation, secondary metabolism, and pod development. Garden pea (Pisum sativum) is a well-established classic model species for genetics studies that has been used since the Mendel era. In addition, the availability of a plethora of developmental mutants makes pea an ideal crop legume for genomics studies. This study aims to utilise genomics tools in isolating genes that play potential roles in the regulation of SAM activity. In order to identify genes that are differentially expressed in the SAM, we generated 2735 ESTs from three cDNA libraries derived from freshly micro-dissected SAMs from 10-day-old garden peas (Pisum sativum cv Torsdag). Custom-designed oligonucleotide arrays were used to compare the transcriptional profiles of pea SAMs and non-meristematic tissues. A total of 184 and 175 transcripts were significantly up- or down-regulated in the pea SAM, respectively. As expected, close to 61% of the transcripts down-regulated in the SAM were found in the public database, whereas sequences from the same source only comprised 12% of the genes that were expressed at higher levels in the SAM. This highlights the under-representation of transcripts from the meristematic tissues in the current public pea protein database, and demonstrates the utility of our SAM EST collection as an essential genetic resource for revealing further information on the regulation of this developmental process. In addition to unknowns, many of the up-regulated transcripts are known to encode products associated with cell division and proliferation, epigenetic regulation, auxin-mediated responses and microRNA regulation. The presented data provide a picture of the transcriptional profile of the pea SAM, and reveal possible roles of differentially expressed transcripts in meristem function and maintenance.
The presence and properties of the enzyme xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR) in peroxisomes from pea (Pisum sativum L.) leaves were studied using biochemical and immunological methods. The activity analysis showed that, in leaf peroxisomes, the superoxide-generating XOR form, xanthine oxidase (XOD), was predominant over the xanthine dehydrogenase form (XDH), with a XDH/XOD ratio of 0.5. However, in crude extracts of pea leaves, the XDH form was more abundant, with a XDH/XOD ratio of 1.6. The native molecular mass of the peroxisomal XOR determined by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was 290 kDa. Using western blot assays, we identified an immunoreactive band of 59 kDa that was not affected by the reducing reagent DTT or endogenous proteases. The analysis of pea leaves by electron microscopy immunogold labeling with affinity-purified antibodies against rat XOD confirmed that this enzyme was localized in the matrix of peroxisomes, as well as in chloroplasts and cytosol. In pea plants subjected to abiotic stress by cadmium, the activity of the peroxisomal XOR was reduced, whereas its protein level expression increased. The results confirmed that leaf peroxisomes contain XOR, and suggest that this peroxisomal metalloflavoprotein enzyme is involved in the mechanism of response of pea plants to abiotic stress by heavy metals.
In this work, a recombinant plum pox virus (PPV, Sharka) encoding green fluorescent protein is used to study its effect on antioxidant enzymes and protein expression at the subcellular level in pea plants (cv. Alaska). PPV had produced chlorotic spots as well as necrotic spots in the oldest leaves at 13-15 d post-inoculation. At 15 d post-inoculation, PPV was present in the chlorotic and necrotic areas, as shown by the fluorescence signal produced by the presence of the green fluorescent protein. In the same areas, an accumulation of reactive oxygen species was noticed. Studies with laser confocal and electron microscopy demonstrated that PPV accumulated in the cytosol of infected cells. In addition, PPV infection produced an alteration in the chloroplast ultrastructure, giving rise to dilated thylakoids, an increase in the number of plastoglobuli, and a decreased amount of starch content. At 3 d post-inoculation, although no changes in the oxidative stress parameters were observed, an increase in the chloroplastic hydrogen peroxide levels was observed that correlated with a decrease in the enzymatic mechanisms involved in its elimination (ascorbate peroxidase and peroxidase) in this cell compartment. These results indicate that an alteration in the chloroplastic metabolism is produced in the early response to PPV. This oxidative stress is more pronounced during the development of the disease (15 d post-inoculation) judging from the increase in oxidative stress parameters as well as the imbalance in the antioxidative systems, mainly at the chloroplastic level. Finally, proteomic analyses showed that most of the changes produced by PPV infection with regard to protein expression at the subcellular level were related mainly to photosynthesis and carbohydrate metabolism. It seems that PPV infection has some effect on PSII, directly or indirectly, by decreasing the amount of Rubisco, oxygen-evolving enhancer, and PSII stability factor proteins. The results indicate that Sharka symptoms observed in pea leaves could be due to an imbalance in antioxidant systems as well as to an increased generation of reactive oxygen species in chloroplasts, induced probably by a disturbance of the electron transport chain, suggesting that chloroplasts can be a source of oxidative stress during viral disease development.
Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) has become an important reverse genetics tool for functional genomics. VIGS vectors based on Pea early browning virus (PEBV, genus Tobravirus) and Bean pod mottle virus (genus Comovirus) are available for the legume species Pisum sativum and Glycine max, respectively. With the aim of extending the application of the PEBV VIGS vector to other legumes, we examined susceptibility of 99 accessions representing 24 legume species including 21 accessions of Medicago truncatula and 38 accessions Lotus japonicus. Infectivity of PEBV was tested by agro-inoculation with a vector carrying the complete beta-glucuronidase (GUS) coding sequence. In situ histochemical staining analysis indicated that 4 of 21 M. truncatula and three of three Lathyrus odorata accessions were infected systemically by GUS tagged PEBV, while none of 38 L. japonicus accessions displayed GUS staining of either inoculated or uninoculated leaves. Agro-inoculation of plants representing PEBV-GUS susceptible M. truncatula and L. odorata accessions with PEBV carrying a fragment of Phytoene desaturase (PDS) resulted in development of a bleaching phenotype suggesting a down-regulation of PDS expression. In M. truncatula this was supported by quantification of PDS mRNA levels by real-time PCR.
The application of nitrogen to legumes regulates seed metabolism and composition. We recently showed that the seed-specific overexpression of amino acid permease VfAAP1 increases amino acid supply, and the levels of N and protein in the seeds. Two consecutive field trials using Pisum sativum AAP1 lines confirmed increases in the levels of N and globulin in seed; however, compensatory changes of sucrose/starch and individual seed weight were also observed. We present a comprehensive analysis of AAP1 seeds using combinatorial transcript and metabolite profiling to monitor the effects of nitrogen supply on seed metabolism. AAP1 seeds have increased amino acids and stimulated gene expression associated with storage protein synthesis, maturation, deposition and vesicle trafficking. Transcript/metabolite changes reveal the channelling of surplus N into the transient storage pools asparagine and arginine, indicating that asparagine synthase is transcriptionally activated by high N levels and/or C limitation. Increased C-acceptor demand for amino acid synthesis, resulting from elevated levels of N in seeds, initiates sucrose mobilization and sucrose-dependent pathways via sucrose synthase, glycolysis and the TCA cycle. The AAP1 seeds display a limitation in C, which leads to the catabolism of arginine, glutamic acid and methionine to putrescine, beta-alanine and succinate. Mitochondria are involved in the coordination of C/N metabolism, with branched-chain amino acid catabolism and a gamma-amino-butyric acid shunt. AAP1 seeds contain higher levels of ABA, which is possibly involved in storage-associated gene expression and the N-dependent stimulation of sucrose mobilization, indicating that a signalling network of C, N and ABA is operating during seed maturation. These results demonstrate that legume seeds have a high capacity to regulate N:C ratios, and highlight the importance of mitochondria in the control of N-C balance and amino acid homeostasis.
Ran/TC4 is the only known member of the family of small GTP-binding proteins primarily localized inside the nucleus. We cloned a pea Ran gene (PsRan1) and characterized its expression in tissues, and under different light sources. PsRan1 is a member of a highly homologous multigene family, and it encodes a protein containing plant-specific amino acids in its sequence. It is ubiquitously expressed in pea tissues with high expression in radicles. The amount of total mRNA transcripts representing multiple Ran family members increased in response to very low-fluence R, while the amount of mRNA transcript encoding PsRan1 specifically was not affected by various light treatments. In addition, Ran genes in Arabidopsis were also differentially expressed in various mutants defective in phytochromes or the light-responding HY5 protein, such as phyA, phyB, and hy5. AtRan1 and AtRan3 gene expression was significantly reduced in the phyA mutant background compared to that in Ler-0 wild type plants. AtRan1 expression was also decreased in the phyB background. In contrast, the expression of AtRan2 did not vary in the hy5 and phytochrome mutant backgrounds examined. Interestingly, expression of AtRan1 was significantly reduced in hy5 plants, while AtRan3 expression was increased in the same plants. From these results, we conclude that Ran gene expression is differentially regulated by various light sources and phytochrome-mediated signaling pathways.
Most enzymatic mutation detection methods are based on the cleavage of heteroduplex DNA by a mismatch-specific endonuclease at mismatch sites and the analysis of the digestion product on a DNA sequencer. Important limitations of these methods are the availability of a mismatch-specific endonuclease, their sensitivity in detecting one allele in pool of DNA, the cost of the analysis and the ease by which the technique could be implemented in a standard molecular biology laboratory. The co-agroinfiltration of ENDO1 and p19 constructs into N. benthamiana leaves allowed high level of transient expression of a mismatch-specific and sensitive endonuclease, ENDO1 from Arabidopsis thaliana. We demonstrate the broad range of uses of the produced enzyme in detection of mutations. In human, we report the diagnosis of the G1691A mutation in Leiden factor-V gene associated with venous thrombosis and the fingerprinting of HIV-1 quasispecies in patients subjected to antiretroviral treatments. In plants, we report the use of ENDO1 system for detection of mutant alleles of Retinoblastoma-related gene by TILLING in Pisum sativum and discovery of natural sequence variations by Eco-TILLING in Arabidopsis thaliana. We introduce a cost-effective tool based on a simplified purification protocol of a mismatch-specific and sensitive endonuclease, ENDO1. Especially, we report the successful applications of ENDO1 in mutation diagnostics in humans, fingerprinting of complex population of viruses, and in TILLING and Eco-TILLING in plants.
IVET was used to identify genes that are specifically expressed in the rhizosphere of the pea-nodulating bacterium Rhizobium leguminosarum A34. A library of R. leguminosarum A34 cloned in the integration vector pIE1, with inserts upstream of a promoter-less purN:gfp:gusA, was conjugated into purN host RU2249 and recombined into the genome. After removal of colonies that expressed the reporter genes of the vector under laboratory conditions, the library was inoculated into a nonsterile pea rhizosphere. The key result is that 29 rhizosphere-induced loci were identified. Sequence analysis of these clones showed that a wide variety of R. leguminosarum A34 genes are expressed specifically in the rhizosphere including those encoding proteins involved in environmental sensing, control of gene expression, metabolic reactions and membrane transport. These genes are likely to be important for survival and colonization of the pea rhizosphere.
Nitrogen fixation (NF) in legume nodules is very sensitive to environmental constraints. Nodule sucrose synthase (SS; EC 2.4.1.13) has been suggested to play a crucial role in those circumstances because its downregulation leads to an impaired glycolytic carbon flux and, therefore, a depletion of carbon substrates for bacteroids. In the present study, the likelihood of SS being regulated by oxidative signaling has been addressed by the in vivo supply of paraquat (PQ) to nodulated pea plants and the in vitro effects of oxidizing and reducing agents on nodule SS. PQ produced cellular redox imbalance leading to an inhibition of NF. This was preceded by the downregulation of SS gene expression, protein content, and activity. In vitro, oxidizing agents were able to inhibit SS activity and this inhibition was completely reversed by the addition of dithiothreitol. The overall results are consistent with a regulation model of nodule SS exerted by the cellular redox state at both the transcriptional and post-translational levels. The importance of such mechanisms for the regulation of NF in response to environmental stresses are discussed.
The theory that bioactive gibberellins (GAs) act as inhibitors of inhibitors of plant growth was based originally on the slender pea (Pisum sativum) mutant (genotype la cry-s), but the molecular nature of this mutant has remained obscure. Here we show that the genes LA and CRY encode DELLA proteins, previously characterized in other species (Arabidopsis [Arabidopsis thaliana] and several grasses) as repressors of growth, which are destabilized by GAs. Mutations la and cry-s encode nonfunctional proteins, accounting for the fact that la cry-s plants are extremely elongated, or slender. We use the la and cry-s mutations to show that in roots, DELLA proteins effectively promote the expression of GA synthesis genes, as well as inhibit elongation. We show also that one of the DELLA-regulated genes is a second member of the pea GA 3-oxidase family, and that this gene appears to play a major role in pea roots.
Transgenic potato (Solanum tuberosum) plants simultaneously over-expressing a pea (Pisum sativum) glucose-6-phosphate/phosphate translocator (GPT) and an Arabidopsis thaliana adenylate translocator (NTT1) in tubers were generated. Double transformants exhibited an enhanced tuber yield of up to 19%, concomitant with an additional increased starch content of up to 28%, compared with control plants. The total starch content produced in tubers per plant was calculated to be increased by up to 44% in double transformants relative to the wild-type. Single over-expression of either gene had no effect on tuber starch content or tuber yield, suggesting that starch formation within amyloplasts is co-limited by the import of energy and the supply of carbon skeletons. As total adenosine diphosphate-glucose pyrophosphorylase and starch synthase activities remained unchanged in double transformants relative to the wild-type, they cannot account for the increased starch content found in tubers of double transformants. Rather, an optimized supply of amyloplasts with adenosine triphosphate and glucose-6-phosphate seems to favour increased starch synthesis, resulting in plants with increased starch content and yield of tubers.
Plants are the organisms containing the most complex multigenic family for thioredoxins (TRX). Several types of TRXs are targeted to chloroplasts, which have been classified into four subgroups: m, f, x, and y. Among them, TRXs f and m were the first plastidial TRXs characterized, and their function as redox modulators of enzymes involved in carbon assimilation in the chloroplast has been well-established. Both TRXs, f and m, were named according to their ability to reduce plastidial fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase) and malate dehydrogenase (MDH), respectively. Evidence is presented here based on the immunocytochemistry of the localization of f and m-type TRXs from Pisum sativum in non-photosynthetic tissues. Both TRXs showed a different spatial pattern. Whilst PsTRXm was localized to vascular tissues of all the organs analysed (leaves, stems, and roots), PsTRXf was localized to more specific cells next to xylem vessels and vascular cambium. Heterologous complementation analysis of the yeast mutant EMY63, deficient in both yeast TRXs, by the pea plastidial TRXs suggests that PsTRXm, but not PsTRXf, is involved in the mechanism of reactive oxygen species (ROS) detoxification. In agreement with this function, the PsTRXm gene was induced in roots of pea plants in response to hydrogen peroxide.
Mitosis and cell wall synthesis in the legume root cap meristem can be induced and synchronized by the nondestructive removal of border cells from the cap periphery. Newly synthesized cells can be examined microscopically as they differentiate progressively during cap development, and ultimately detach as a new population of border cells. This system was used to demonstrate that Pisum sativum L. fucosyl transferase (PsFut1) mRNA expression is strongly expressed in root meristematic tissues, and is induced >2-fold during a 5-h period when mitosis in the root cap meristem is increased. Expression of PsFut1 antisense mRNA in pea hairy roots under the control of the CaMV35S promoter, which exhibits meristem localized expression in pea root caps, resulted in a 50-60% reduction in meristem localized endogenous PsFut1 mRNA expression measured using whole mount in situ hybridization. Changes in gross levels of cell wall fucosylated xyloglucan were not detected, but altered surface localization patterns were detected using whole mount immunolocalization with CCRC-M1, an antibody that recognizes fucosylated xyloglucan. Emerging hairy roots expressing antisense PsFut1 mRNA appeared normal macroscopically but scanning electron microscopy of tissues with altered CCRC-M1 localization patterns revealed wrinkled, collapsed cell surfaces. As individual border cells separated from the cap periphery, cell death occurred in correlation with extrusion of cellular contents through breaks in the wall.
Gibberellins are phytohormones that regulate growth and development of plants. Gibberellin homeostasis is maintained by feedback regulation of gibberellin metabolism genes. To understand this regulation, we manipulated the gibberellin pathway in tobacco and studied its effects on the morphological phenotype, gibberellin levels and the expression of endogenous gibberellin metabolism genes. The overexpression of a gibberellin 3-oxidase (biosynthesis gene) in tobacco (3ox-OE) induced slight variations in phenotype and active GA(1) levels, but we also found an increase in GA(8) levels (GA(1) inactivation product) and a conspicuous induction of gibberellin 2-oxidases (catabolism genes; NtGA2ox3 and -5), suggesting an important role for these particular genes in the control of gibberellin homeostasis. The effect of simultaneous overexpression of two biosynthesis genes, a gibberellin 3-oxidase and a gibberellin 20-oxidase (20ox/3ox-OE), on phenotype and gibberellin content suggests that gibberellin 3-oxidases are non-limiting enzymes in tobacco, even in a 20ox-OE background. Moreover, the expression analysis of gibberellin metabolism genes in transgenic plants (3ox-OE, 20ox-OE and hybrid 3ox/20ox-OE), and in response to application of different GA(1) concentrations, showed genes with different gibberellin sensitivity. Gibberellin biosynthesis genes (NtGA20ox1 and NtGA3ox1) are negatively feedback regulated mainly by high gibberellin levels. In contrast, gibberellin catabolism genes which are subject to positive feedback regulation are sensitive to high (NtGA2ox1) or to low (NtGA2ox3 and -5) gibberellin concentrations. These two last GA2ox genes seem to play a predominant role in gibberellin homeostasis under mild gibberellin variations, but not under large gibberellin changes, where the biosynthesis genes GA20ox and GA3ox may be more important.
Both alkaline and acidic alpha-galactosidases (alpha-D: -galactoside galactohydrolases, E.C.3.2.1.22) isolated from various plant species have been described, although little is known about their co-occurrence and functions in germinating seeds. Here, we report on the isolation of two cDNAs, encoding for alpha-galactosidases from maturing and germinating seeds of Pisum sativum. One was identified as a member of the acidic alpha-galactosidase of the family 27 glycosyl hydrolase cluster and the other as a member of the family of alkaline alpha-galactosidases, which are highly homologous to seed imbibition proteins (SIPs). PsGAL1 transcripts, encoding for the ACIDIC alpha-GALACTOSIDASE, were predominately expressed during seed maturation and acidic enzyme activities were already present in dry seeds, showing little changes during seed germination. Compartmentation studies revealed that acidic alpha-galactosidases were located in protein storage vacuoles (PSVs). PsAGA1, encoding for the ALKALINE alpha-GALACTOSIDASE, was only expressed after radicle protrusion, when about 50% of RFOs have already been broken down. RFO breakdown was markedly decreased when the translation of the alkaline enzyme was inhibited, providing evidence that PsAGA1 indeed functioned in RFO degradation. Based on these data, we present an integrated model of RFO breakdown by two sequentially active alpha-galactosidases in pea seeds.
RNA editing changes more than 400 cytidines to uridines in the mRNAs of mitochondria in flowering plants. In other plants such as ferns and mosses, RNA editing reactions changing C to U and U to C are observed at almost equal frequencies. Development of transfection systems with isolated mitochondria and of in vitro systems with extracts from mitochondria has considerably improved our understanding of the recognition of specific editing sites in the last few years. These assays have also yielded information about the biochemical parameters, but the enzymes involved have not yet been identified. Here we summarize our present understanding of the process of RNA editing in flowering plant mitochondria.
The European honey bee (Apis mellifera) is important both for pollination and for honey production. Pollen is the major protein source for bees, which exposes them directly to changes in pollen quality e.g. through genetic engineering. In order to create a worst case scenario regarding pea lectin (PSL) expressed transgenically in oilseed rape anthers and pollen, the maximum amount of dried pollen that could be mixed in an artificial diet without negatively affecting larval performance (1.5% w/w) was fed to bee larvae. Pollen from two transgenic plant lines expressing PSL up to 1.2% of total soluble protein and pollen from one non-transgenic line was added to the same diet and used as a pollen control. When these three pollen diets and the control diet (without added pollen) were compared, no negative effect from the pollen of the transgenic plants could be detected on larval mortality, weight, or development time. An increased weight and a reduced developmental time were recorded for larvae on all diets containing pollen when compared to the diet without pollen.
The protein complexes of pea (Pisum sativum L.) etioplasts, etio-chloroplasts and chloroplasts were examined using 2D Blue Native/SDS-PAGE. The most prominent protein complexes in etioplasts were the ATPase and the Clp and FtsH protease complexes which probably have a crucial role in the biogenesis of etioplasts and chloroplasts. Also the cytochrome b(6)f (Cyt b(6)f) complex was assembled in the etioplast membrane, as well as Rubisco, at least partially, in the stroma. These complexes are composed of proteins encoded by both the plastid and nuclear genomes, indicating that a functional cross-talk exists between pea etioplasts and the nucleus. In contrast, the proteins and protein complexes that bind chlorophyll, with the PetD subunit and the entire Cyt b(6)f complex as an exception, did not accumulate in etioplasts. Nevertheless, some PSII core components such as PsbE and the luminal oxygen-evolvong complex (OEC) proteins PsbO and PsbP accumulated efficiently in etioplasts. After 6 h de-etiolation, a complete PSII core complex appeared with 40% of the maximal photochemical efficiency, but a fully functional PSII was recorded only after 24 h illumination. Similarly, the core complex of PSI was assembled after 6 h illumination, whereas the PSI-light-harvesting complex I was stably assembled only in chloroplasts illuminated for 24 h. Moreover, a battery of proteins responsible for defense against oxidative stress accumulated particularly in etioplasts, including the stromal and thylakoidal forms of ascorbate peroxidase, glutathione reductase and PsbS.
Method of site-directed mutagenesis that gave an opportunity to the site-independent manipulation with enough extended exposed mutagenesis fragments of gene cloning in plasmid vector was developed. With the help of this method hybrid constructions representing peas Pisum sativum (PSL) lectine with carbohydrate-binding fragment changing on that lectines from another legume plants were created. This method is suitable for obtaining the expression constructions in plasmid vectors, when is necessary to put a coding part under the control of promoter in a certain reading frame.
The preprotein translocon at the inner envelope of chloroplasts (Tic complex) facilitates the import of nuclear-encoded preproteins into the organelle. Seven distinct subunits have been identified so far. For each of those, specific functions have been proposed based on structural prediction or experimental evidence. Three of those subunits possess modules that could act as redox-active regulatory components in the import process. To date, however, the mode of redox regulation of the import process remains enigmatic. To investigate how the chloroplast redox state influences translocon behavior and composition, we studied the Tic component and the putative redox sensor Tic62 in more detail. The experimental results provide evidence that Tic62 can act as a bona fide dehydrogenase in vitro, and that it changes its localization in the chloroplast dependent on the NADP+/NADPH ratio in the stroma. Moreover, the redox state influences the interactions of Tic62 with the translocon and the flavoenzyme ferredoxin-NADP+ oxidoreductase. Additionally, we give initial experimental insights into the Tic62 structure using circular dichroism measurements and demonstrate that the protein consists of two structurally different domains. Our results indicate that Tic62 possesses redox-dependent properties that would allow it to fulfill a role as redox sensor protein in the chloroplast.
The organization of eukaryotic cells into different membrane-enclosed compartments requires an ordered and regulated system for targeting and translocating proteins synthesized in the cytosol across organellar membranes. Protein translocation through integral membrane proteinaceous complexes shares common principles in different organelles, whereas molecular mechanisms and energy requirements are diverse. Translocation into mitochondria and plastids requires most proteins to cross two membranes, and translocation must be regulated to accommodate environmental or metabolic changes. In the last decade, the first ideas were formulated about the regulation of protein translocation into chloroplasts, thereby laying the foundation for this field. Here, we describe recent models for the regulation of translocation by precursor protein phosphorylation, receptor dimerization, redox sensing and calcium signaling. We suggest how these mechanisms might fit within the regulatory framework for the entry of proteins into chloroplasts.
Bicarbonate is considered one of the most important factors causing Fe chlorosis in Strategy I plants, mainly on calcareous soils. Most of its negative effects have been attributed to its capacity to buffer a high pH in soils, which can diminish both Fe solubility and root ferric reductase activity. Besides its pH-mediated effects, previous work has shown that bicarbonate can inhibit the induction of enhanced ferric reductase activity in Fe-deficient Strategy I plants. However, to date it is not known whether bicarbonate affects the upregulation of the ferric reductase gene and other genes involved in Fe acquisition. The objective of this work has been to study the effect of bicarbonate on the expression of several Fe acquisition genes in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana L.), pea (Pisum sativum L.), tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) and cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) plants. Genes for ferric reductases AtFRO2, PsFRO1, LeFRO1 and CsFRO1; iron transporters AtITR1, PsRIT1, LeIRT1 and CsIRT1; H
Several legume seed proteins that are potentially allergenic, poorly digested by farm animals, and/or have undesirable functional properties, have been described. One of these is the albumin protein in pea (Pisum sativum) called PA2. A naturally occurring mutant line that lacks PA2 has been exploited in studies to determine the biological function of this nonstorage protein in seed development. The mutant, which has a small seed, a tall plant phenotype, and lacks most of the PA2-encoding genes, has been crossed with a standard cultivar, 'Birte,' which contains PA2 to give rise to a recombinant inbred (RI) population. An F(3) line carrying the mutation and having a short plant phenotype has been used to generate backcross (BC) lines with 'Birte.' Despite having a lower albumin content, seeds from the mutant parent and RI lines lacking PA2 have an equivalent or higher seed nitrogen content. Metabolite profiling of seeds revealed major differences in amino acid composition and polyamine content in the two parent lines. This was investigated further in BC lines, where the effects of differences in seed size and plant height between the two parents were eliminated. Here, differences in polyamine synthesis were maintained as was a difference in total seed protein between the BC line lacking PA2 and 'Birte.' Analysis of enzyme activities in the pathways of polyamine synthesis revealed that the differences in spermidine content were attributable to changes in the overall activities of spermidine synthase and arginine decarboxylase. Although the genes encoding spermidine synthase and PA2 both localized to the pea linkage group I, the two loci were shown not to be closely linked and to have recombined in the BC lines. A distinct locus on linkage group III contains a gene that is related to PA2 but expressed predominantly in flowers. The results provide evidence for a role of PA2 in regulating polyamine metabolism, which has important functions in development, metabolism, and stress responses in plants.
Aldehyde oxidase (AO, EC 1.2.3.1) is a molybdenohydroxylase that is considered to catalyze the last step of abscisic acid (ABA) and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) synthesis. Three cDNAs encoding aldehyde oxidase proteins in Pisum sativum (cv. Little Marvel) were obtained based on RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction) strategy. The cloned genes, designated as PsAO1, PsAO2 and PsAO3, are 4630, 4347, 4600 bp in length, respectively, and show high sequence identity to each other and to aldehyde oxidases from other plant species. The deduced PsAO1, PsAO2, and PsAO3 proteins are 1373, 1367, 1367 amino acids in length, respectively, and contain consensus sequences for two iron-sulfur centers, a FAD binding domain, and a molybdenum cofactor (Moco) binding domain. PsAO1 and PsAO2 were mainly expressed in leaves of seedlings and young leaves of adult plants, while the highest PsAO3 transcript level was observed in aging leaves and matured seeds. PsAO2 mRNA was not affected by salinity or ammonium treatment, whereas the transcript level of PsAO3 increased significantly under both stress conditions, with the most pronounced changes in aging leaves, fully expanded leaves and roots. The PsAO1 transcript level was enhanced only in the presence of ammonium in the nutrient medium, but not under salinity. Based on the molecular mass of the deduced proteins and on organ-specific gene expression, studied both under control and stress conditions, the contribution of each PsAO cDNA in the formation of the previously described three dimeric pea AO isoforms and the possible involvement of the PsAO3 in abscisic acid (ABA) synthesis is discussed.
The Mexican bean weevil, Zabrotes subfasciatus, feeds on several seeds such as Vigna unguiculata, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Pisum sativum, causing severe crop losses. This ability to obtain essential compounds from different diets could possibly be explained due to a wide variability of digestive proteinases present in the weevil's midgut. These may improve digestion of many different dietary proteins. Coleopteran serine-like proteinases have not been thoroughly characterized at the molecular level. In this report, a full-length cDNA encoding a trypsin-like protein, named ZsTRYP, was isolated from Z. subfasciatus larvae using RT-PCR, 5' and 3' RACE techniques. The quantitative real-time PCR analysis strongly correlated the Zstryp transcript accumulation to the major feeding developmental larval stage. Zstryp cDNA was subcloned into pET101 vector and expressed in a Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) strain. Nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) affinity chromatography was used to purify a 29.0-kDa recombinant enzyme. The purified ZsTRYP was then assayed with several synthetic peptide substrates and also challenged with different inhibitors. The biochemical data allowed us to classify ZsTRYP as a trypsin. Moreover, homology modeling analysis indicated a typical trypsin structural core and a conserved catalytic triad (His(41), Asp(86), and Ser(182)).
Across vascular plants, Class 1 KNOTTED1-like (KNOX1) genes appear to play a critical role in the development of compound leaves. An exception to this trend is found in the Fabaceae, where pea (Pisum sativum) uses UNIFOLIATA, an ortholog of the floral regulators FLORICAULA (FLO) and LEAFY (LFY), in place of KNOX1 genes to regulate compound leaf development. To assess the phylogenetic distribution of KNOX1-independent compound leaf development, a survey of KNOX1 protein expression across the Fabaceae was undertaken. The majority of compound-leafed Fabaceae have expression of KNOX1 proteins associated with developing compound leaves. However, in a large subclade of the Fabaceae, the inverted repeat-lacking clade (IRLC), of which pea is a member, KNOX1 expression is not associated with compound leaves. These data suggest that the FLO/LFY gene may function in place of KNOX1 genes in generating compound leaves throughout the IRLC. The contribution of FLO/LFY to leaf complexity in a member of the Fabaceae outside of the IRLC was examined by reducing expression of FLO/LFY orthologs in transgenic soybean (Glycine max). Transgenic plants with reduced FLO/LFY expression showed only slight reductions in leaflet number. Overexpression of a KNOX1 gene in alfalfa (Medicago sativa), a member of the IRLC, resulted in an increase in leaflet number. This implies that KNOX1 targets, which promote compound leaf development, are present in alfalfa and are still sensitive to KNOX1 regulation. These data suggest that KNOX1 genes and the FLO/LFY gene may have played partially overlapping roles in compound leaf development in ancestral Fabaceae but that the FLO/LFY gene took over this role in the IRLC.
All the algae with chlorophyll (Chl) c (haptophytes, cryptophytes, and heterokonts such as diatoms) acquired their chloroplasts by secondary endosymbiosis, where a nonphotosynthetic eukaryote host engulfed (or was invaded by) a red alga. This resulted in chloroplasts with four bounding membranes. The outermost membrane (chloroplast endoplasmic reticulum [ER]), is physically continuous with the rough ER, and in some algal species can be seen to have cytoplasmic ribosomes attached to its outer surface. All nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins have an N-terminal ER targeting sequence, which is cleaved off during transit across this membrane. We know little about how proteins cross the next membrane and engage the import translocons of the envelope membranes. One way to study the targeting of proteins across the inner membranes is to make constructs lacking the ER signal sequence, translate them in vitro, and assay their import into pea chloroplasts.
Mesophyll mitochondria from green leaves of the C(4) plants Zea mays (NADP-ME-type), Panicum miliaceum (NAD-ME-type) and Panicum maximum (PEP-CK-type) oxidized NADH, malate and succinate at relatively high rates with respiratory control, but glycine was not oxidized. Among the mitochondrial proteins involved in glycine oxidation, the L, P and T proteins of glycine decarboxylase complex (GDC) and serine hydroxymethyltransferase (SHMT) were present, while the H protein of GDC was undetectable. In contrast, mesophyll mitochondria from etiolated leaves of Z. mays oxidized glycine at a slow rate and with no respiratory control, and contained the H protein as well as the other GDC proteins and SHMT. The T and P proteins and SHMT were present in the mitochondria from etiolated leaves at significantly higher levels than in those from green leaves of Z. mays. The content of the L protein was almost identical in all three C(4) plants examined and close to the value obtained for mesophyll mitochondria from the C(3) plant Pisum sativum, whereas the other GDC proteins and SHMT were less abundant than the L protein. We discuss possible reasons for the H protein's absence in mesophyll mitochondria of C(4) plants, as well as the role(s) the other GDC components could play in its absence.
The genetic system of chloroplasts, including the machinery for transcription, translation, and DNA replication, exhibits substantial similarity to that of eubacteria. Chloroplasts are also thought to possess a system for generating guanosine 5'-triphosphate ((p)ppGpp), which triggers the stringent response in eubacteria, with genes encoding chloroplastic (p)ppGpp synthetase having been identified. We now describe the identification and characterization of genes (OsCRSH1, OsCRSH2, and OsCRSH3) for a novel type of (p)ppGpp synthetase in rice. The proteins encoded by these genes contain a putative chloroplast transit peptide at the NH(2) terminus, a central RelA-SpoT-like domain, and two EF-hand motifs at the COOH terminus. The recombinant OsCRSH1 protein was imported into chloroplasts in vitro, and genetic complementation analysis revealed that expression of OsCRSH1 suppressed the phenotype of an Escherichia coli mutant deficient in the RelA and SpoT enzymes. Biochemical analysis showed that the OsCRSH proteins possess (p)ppGpp synthetase activity that is dependent both on Ca(2+) and on the EF-hand motifs. A data base search identified a CRSH homolog in the dicotyledon Arabidopsis thaliana, indicating that such genes are conserved among both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous land plants. CRSH proteins thus likely function as Ca(2+)-activated (p)ppGpp synthetases in plant chloroplasts, implicating both Ca(2+) and (p)ppGpp signaling in regulation of the genetic system of these organelles.
The Pisum sativum SYM8 gene plays an essential part in both rhizobial and mycorrhizal symbioses. Mutation of sym8 in the original type line R25 blocks nodulation, mycorrhization, and Nod-factor-induced calcium spiking, an early component of the nodulation signaling pathway. We describe four new sym8 alleles of pea, which fall into the same complementation group as R25. The sym8 mutants are phenotypically similar to Medicago truncatula dmi1 mutants and map to a syntenic location. We used sequence homology to isolate the pea ortholog of M. truncatula DMI1 and have shown that the cloned pea ortholog can complement a M. truncatula dmi1 mutant for nodulation. Each of the five pea sym8 mutants carries a mutation in the DMI1 ortholog, confirming that the pea SYM8 is the DMI1 ortholog. Based on predicted structural similarities with an archaebacterial ion channel, we propose that SYM8 forms a tetrameric calcium-gated channel of a predicted structure similar to the archaebacterial potassium channel but containing a filter region that is different. The predicted structure identifies four aspartate residues (one from each subunit) forming the channel opening. We made a mutation changing the aspartate to valine and identified a missense mutation (changing alanine to valine adjacent to the aspartate residues) in this predicted filter region; both mutations caused a loss of function. We also identified a loss-of-function missense mutation (changing arginine to isoleucine) in a domain proposed to link the predicted channel and the gating ring domains, indicating that this mutation may block function by preventing a protein conformational change being transmitted from the gating-ring domain to the pore domain.
Azospirillum strains have been used as plant-growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) of cereal crops, but their adaptation to the root remains poorly understood. Here, we used a global approach based on differential fluorescence induction (DFI) promoter trapping to identify genes of the wheat isolate Azospirillum brasilense Sp245 that are induced in the presence of spring wheat seed extracts. Fluorescence-based flow cytometry sorting of Sp245 cells was validated using PlacZ, PsbpA and PnifH promoters and egfp. A random promoter library was constructed by cloning 1-3 kb Sp245 fragments upstream of a promoterless version of egfp in the promoter-trap plasmid pOT1e (genome coverage estimated at threefold). Exposure to spring wheat seed extracts obtained using a methanol solution led to the detection of 300 induced DFI clones, and upregulation by seed extracts was confirmed in vitro for 46 clones. Sequencing of 21 clones enabled identification of seven promoter regions. Five of them displayed upregulation once inoculated onto spring wheat seedlings. Their downstream sequence was similar to (i) a predicted transcriptional regulator, (ii) a serine/threonine protein kinase, (iii) two conserved hypothetical proteins, or (iv) the copper-containing dissimilatory nitrite reductase NirK. Two of them were also upregulated when inoculated on winter wheat and pea but not on maize, whereas the three others (including PnirK) were upregulated on the three hosts. The amounts of nitrate and/or nitrite present in spring wheat seed extracts were sufficient for PnirK upregulation. Overall, DFI promoter trapping was useful to reveal Azospirillum genes involved in the interaction with the plant.
In greenhouse production of a number of flowering plant species, a short diurnal temperature drop in the morning is commonly used to reduce stem elongation. Earlier studies of pea (Pisum sativum) exposed to different combinations of day and night temperature, indicate that light, temperature, and gibberellin (GA) interact in the control of stem elongation. However, the mechanisms behind the effects of short-term temperature drops and differential sensitivity depending on the timing of the drop treatment have not been reported. Here, the involvement of GA metabolism in this has been investigated by exposing pea to short-term temperature drops in light or darkness. A 2 h temperature drop from 21 degrees C to 13 degrees C in the middle of the light period rapidly reduced the rate of stem elongation temporarily by 55% and increased mRNA levels of the GA-deactivation gene PsGA2ox2 by 2-fold within 30 min and up to 4-fold within 1.5 h. GA(1) levels were reduced by 36% after a 3-4 h time lag. A temperature drop in the night reduced stem elongation by 27%, but had no effect on transcript levels of PsGA2ox2. Instead, steady-state expression of the GA-biosynthesis genes NA, PsGA20ox1, and PsGA3ox1 was slightly stimulated, but there was no effect on GA(1) level. In conclusion, the effect of a temperature drop on GA metabolism in pea is qualitatively different in light and dark. Light is required for deactivation of GA(1) resulting from increased expression of PsGA2ox2. This suggests that GA-metabolism is a component in the short-term adaptation to changes in ambient temperature and putatively in low temperature-light stress responses.
The peribacteroid membrane (PBM) of symbiosomes from pea root nodules developed in the presence of boron (+B) was labelled by anti-rhamnogalacturonan II (RGII) (anti-rhamnogalacturonan II pectin polysaccharide) antiserum. However, in nodules from plants grown at low boron (-B), anti-RGII pectin polysaccharide did not stain PBMs. Given that RGII pectin binds to borate, and that symbiosomes differentiate aberrantly in -B nodules because of abnormal vesicle traffic, anti-RGII pectin polysaccharide antigens were further analysed. Following electrophoresis and electroblotting, anti-RGII pectin polysaccharide immunostained three bands in +B but not in -B nodule-derived PBMs. A similar banding pattern was observed after the immunostaining of membrane fractions from uninfected roots, indicating that anti-RGII pectin polysaccharide antigens are common to both peribacteroid and plasma membranes. Protease treatment of samples led to disappearance of anti-RGII pectin polysaccharide labelling, indicating that the three immunostained bands correspond to proteins or glycoproteins. The immunochemical study of RGII antigen distribution during nodule development showed that it is strongly present on the PBM of dividing (undifferentiated) symbiosomes but progressively disappeared during symbiosome maturation. In B-deficient nodules, PBMs were never decorated with RGII antigens, and there was an abnormal targeting of vesicles containing pectic polysaccharide (homogalacturanan) to cell membranes. Overall, these results indicate that RGII, boron and certain membrane (glyco)-proteins may interact closely and function cooperatively in membrane processes associated with symbiosome division and general cell growth.
Plant thioredoxins (TRXs) are involved in redox regulation of a wide variety processes and usually exhibit organ specificity. We report strong evidence that chloroplastic TRXs are localized in heterotrophic tissues and suggest some ways in which they might participate in several metabolic and developmental processes. The promoter regions of the chloroplastic f and m1 TRX genes were isolated from a pea (Pisum sativum) plant genomic bank. Histochemical staining for beta-glucuronidase (GUS) in transgenic homozygous Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants showed preferential expression of the 444-bp PsTRXf1 promoter in early seedlings, stems, leaves, and roots, as well as in flowers, stigma, pollen grains, and filaments. GUS activity under the control of the 1,874-bp PsTRXm1 promoter was restricted to the leaves, roots, seeds, and flowers. To gain insight into the translational regulation of these genes, a series of deletions of 5' elements in both TRX promoters were analyzed. The results revealed that a 126-bp construct of the PsTRXf2 promoter was unable to reproduce the expression pattern observed with the full promoter. The differences in expression and tissue specificity between PsTRXm1 and the deleted promoters PsTRXm2 and PsTRXm3 suggest the existence of upstream positive or negative regulatory regions that affect tissue specificity, sucrose metabolism, and light regulation. PsTRXm1 expression is finely regulated by light and possibly by other metabolic factors. In situ hybridization experiments confirmed new localizations of these chloroplastic TRX transcripts in vascular tissues and flowers, and therefore suggest possible new functions in heterotrophic tissues related to cell division, germination, and plant reproduction.
Pathogenicity of two sequenced isolates of Bean yellow mosaic virus (BYMV) was established on genotypes of Pisum sativum L. reported to carry resistance genes to BYMV and other potyviruses. Resistance to the white lupin strain of BYMV (BYMV-W) is inherited as a recessive gene named wlv that maps to linkage group VI together with other Potyvirus resistances. One of these, sbm1, confers resistance to strains of Pea seedborne mosaic virus and previously has been identified as a mutant allele of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E gene (eIF4E). Sequence comparison of eIF4E from BYMV-W-susceptible and -resistant P. sativum genotypes revealed a polymorphism correlating with the resistance profile. Expression of eIF4E from susceptible plants in resistant plants facilitated BYMV-W infection in inoculated leaves. When cDNA of BYMV-W was agroinoculated, resistance mediated by the wlv gene frequently was overcome, and virus from these plants had a codon change causing an Arg to His change at position 116 of the predicted viral genome-linked protein (VPg). Accordingly, plants carrying the wlv resistance gene were infected upon inoculation with BYMV-W derived from cDNA with a His codon at position 116 of the VPg coding region. These results suggested that VPg determined pathogenicity on plants carrying the wlv resistance gene and that wlv corresponded to the sbm1 allele of eIF4E.
Increased expression of the auxin-inducible gene PsIAA4/5 was observed in the elongated side of epicotyls in early growth stages of etiolated pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Alaska) seedlings grown in a horizontal or an inclined position under 1 g conditions. Under simulated microgravity conditions on a 3D clinostat, accumulation of PsIAA4/5 mRNA was found throughout epicotyls showing automorphosis. Polar auxin transport in the proximal side of epicotyls changed when the seedlings were grown in a horizontal or an inclined position under 1 g conditions, but that under clinorotation did not, regardless of the direction of seed setting. Accumulation of PsPIN1 and PsPIN2 mRNAs in epicotyls was affected by gravistimulation, but not by clinorotation. Under 1 g conditions, auxin-transport inhibitors made epicotyls of seedlings grown in a horizontal or inclined position grow toward the proximal direction to cotyledons. These inhibitors led to epicotyl bending toward the cotyledons in seedlings grown in an inclined position under clinorotation. Polar auxin transport, as well as growth direction, of epicotyls of the agravitropic mutant ageotropum did not respond to various gravistimulation. These results suggest that alteration of polar auxin transport in the proximal side of epicotyls regulates the graviresponse of pea epicotyls.
Mutants that retain greenness of leaves during senescence are known as "stay-green" mutants. The most famous stay-green mutant is Mendel's green cotyledon pea, one of the mutants used in determining the law of genetics. Pea plants homozygous for this recessive mutation (known as i at present) retain greenness of the cotyledon during seed maturation and of leaves during senescence. We found tight linkage between the I locus and stay-green gene originally found in rice, SGR. Molecular analysis of three i alleles including one with no SGR expression confirmed that the I gene encodes SGR in pea. Functional analysis of sgr mutants in pea and rice further revealed that leaf functionality is lowered despite a high chlorophyll a (Chl a) and chlorophyll b (Chl b) content in the late stage of senescence, suggesting that SGR is primarily involved in Chl degradation. Consistent with this observation, a wide range of Chl-protein complexes, but not the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) large subunit, were shown to be more stable in sgr than wild-type plants. The expression of OsCHL and NYC1, which encode the first enzymes in the degrading pathways of Chl a and Chl b, respectively, was not affected by sgr in rice. The results suggest that SGR might be involved in activation of the Chl-degrading pathway during leaf senescence through translational or posttranslational regulation of Chl-degrading enzymes.
Carotenoids constitute a vast group of pigments that are ubiquitous throughout nature. Carrot (Daucus carota L.) roots provide an important source of dietary beta-carotene (provitamin A), alpha-carotene and lutein. Ketocarotenoids, such as canthaxanthin and astaxanthin, are produced by some algae and cyanobacteria but are rare in plants. Ketocarotenoids are strong antioxidants that are chemically synthesized and used as dietary supplements and pigments in the aquaculture and neutraceutical industries. We engineered the ketocarotenoid biosynthetic pathway in carrot tissues by introducing a beta-carotene ketolase gene isolated from the alga Haematococcus pluvialis. Gene constructs were made with three promoters (double CaMV 35S, Arabidopsis-ubiquitin, and RolD from Agrobacterium rhizogenes). The pea Rubisco small sub-unit transit peptide was used to target the enzyme to plastids in leaf and root tissues. The phosphinothricin acetyl transferase (bar) gene was used as a selectable marker. Following Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, 150 plants were regenerated and grown in a glasshouse. All three promoters provided strong root expression, while the double CaMV 35S and Ubiquitin promoters also had strong leaf expression. The recombinant ketolase protein was successfully targeted to the chloroplasts and chromoplasts. Endogenous expression of carrot beta-carotene hydroxylases was up-regulated in transgenic leaves and roots, and up to 70% of total carotenoids was converted to novel ketocarotenoids, with accumulation up to 2,400 microg/g root dry weight. Astaxanthin, adonirubin, and canthaxanthin were most prevalent, followed by echinenone, adonixanthin and beta-cryptoxanthin. Our results show that carrots are suitable for biopharming ketocarotenoid production for applications to the functional food, neutraceutical and aquaculture industries.
Scanning DNA sequences for mutations and polymorphisms has become one of the most challenging, often expensive and time-consuming obstacles in many molecular genetic applications, including reverse genetic and clinical diagnostic applications. Enzymatic mutation detection methods are based on the cleavage of heteroduplex DNA at the mismatch sites. These methods are often limited by the availability of a mismatch-specific endonuclease, their sensitivity in detecting one allele in a pool of DNA and their costs. Here, we present detailed biochemical analysis of five Arabidopsis putative mismatch-specific endonucleases. One of them, ENDO1, is presented as the first endonuclease that recognizes and cleaves all types of mismatches with high efficiency. We report on a very simple protocol for the expression and purification of ENDO1. The ENDO1 system could be exploited in a wide range of mutation diagnostic tools. In particular, we report the use of ENDO1 for discovery of point mutations in the gibberellin 3beta-hydrolase gene of Pisum sativum. Twenty-one independent mutants were isolated, five of these were characterized and two new mutations affecting internodes length were identified. To further evaluate the quality of the mutant population we screened for mutations in four other genes and identified 5-21 new alleles per target. Based on the frequency of the obtained alleles we concluded that the pea population described here would be suitable for use in a large reverse-genetics project.
Heterotrimeric G-proteins transduce signals from activated G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) to appropriate downstream effectors and thereby play an important role in signaling. A role of G-proteins in salinity and heat stress tolerance has not heretofore been described. We report isolation of cDNAs of two isoforms of Galpha (Galpha1, 1152 bp; Galpha2, 1152 bp), one Gbeta (1134 bp), two isoforms of Ggamma (Ggamma1, 345 bp; Ggamma2, 303 bp) and a GPCR (1008 bp) from Pisum sativum, and purification of all the encoded recombinant proteins (Galpha, 44 kDa; Gbeta, 41 kDa; Ggamma, 14 kDa; GPCR, 35 kDa). The transcript levels of Galpha and Gbeta were upregulated following NaCl, heat and H(2)O(2) treatments. Protein-protein interaction studies using an in vitro yeast two-hybrid system and in planta co-immunoprecipitation showed that the Galpha subunit interacted with the pea Gbeta subunit and pea phospholipase C (PLCdelta) at the calcium-binding domain (fn1). The GTPase activity of the Galpha subunit increased after interaction with PLCdelta. The GPCR protein interacted with all the subunits of G-proteins and with itself. Transgenic tobacco plants (T(0) and T(1)) constitutively over-expressing Galpha showed tolerance to salinity and heat, while Gbeta-over-expressing plants showed only heat tolerance, as tested by leaf disk senescence assay and germination/growth of T(1) seeds/seedlings. These findings provide direct evidence for a novel role of Galpha and Gbeta subunits in abiotic stress tolerance and possible cross-talk between PLC- and G-protein-mediated signaling pathways.
Immunoscreening of a cDNA expression library, prepared from 7 days old young shoots of pea (Pisum sativum), identified a novel gene comprising of 2586 bp open reading frame (ORF) with 381 bp and 532 bp 5' and 3'untranslated regions (UTRs), respectively. Sequence analysis of this gene, termed as PeIF5B, revealed striking homology to eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF5B - a sequence homologue of prokaryotic translation initiation factor IF2. Southern blot analyses indicated that PeIF5B exists as a single copy gene in P. sativum genome. Northern blot hybridization revealed the presence of a 7 kb transcript in pea plant. In vitro translation using rabbit reticulocyte lysate system yielded a protein corresponding to 116 kDa which was higher than the calculated value of 96 kDa. Phylogenetic analyses of PeIF5B placed it closer to eIF5B from yeast, human and Drosophila. Pfam domain search analysis pointed to its likely role as a translation initiation factor. The presence of an eIF5B-like factor in a plant system will aid in better understanding of the mechanism of translation initiation in plants.
The genome of the plant-colonizing bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens SBW25 possesses a putative copper-transporting P1-type ATPase (CueA) that is induced on the plant surfaces. Using a chromosomally-integrated cueA-lacZ fusion, we show that transcription of cueA can be induced (in vitro) by ions of copper, silver, gold, and mercury. To investigate the biological significance of cueA, a nonpolar cueA deletion mutant (SBW25 delta cueA) was constructed. This mutant strain displayed a twofold reduction in its tolerance to copper compared with the wild-type strain; however, no change was observed in the sensitivity of the mutant strain to silver, gold, or mercury ions. To obtain insight into the ecological significance of cueA, the competitive ability of SBW25 delta cueA was determined relative to wild-type SBW25 in three environments (none contained added copper): minimal M9 medium, the root of sugar beet (Beta vulgaris), and the root of pea (Pisum sativum). Results showed that the fitness of SBW25 delta cueA was not different from the wild type in laboratory medium but was compromised in the two plant environments. Taken together, these data demonstrate a functional role for CueA in copper homeostasis and reveal an ecologically significant contribution to bacterial fitness in the plant rhizosphere. They also suggest that copper ions accumulate on plant surfaces.
In humans, uridine 5'-diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) operates in opposition to glucuronidase (GUS) to control activity of diverse metabolites such as hormones by reversible conjugation with glucuronic acid. Previous data revealed that, as in mammals, these enzymes are required for plant life in that a UGT from Pisum sativum (PsUGT1) controls plant development by opposing endogenous GUS activity thereby modulating the duration of the cell cycle. Here we report that a small family of genes (AtUGT85A1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 7) homologous to pea PsUGT1 exists in the Arabidopsis genome. The AtUGT85A-encoded proteins are predicted to be membrane-associated enzymes. Three genes (AtGUS1, AtGUS2, and AtGUS3) that are homologous to a GUS-encoding gene from Scutellaria baicalensis were identified. The AtGUS-encoded proteins are predicted to be secretory (AtGUS1) and membrane-associated (AtGUS2 and AtGUS3) enzymes. Both AtUGT85A and AtGUS genes, like PsUGT1, exhibit localized, tissue-specific expression, mainly in areas of active cell division with possible involvement in cell cycle regulation.
Carbonic anhydrase (CA) catalyzes the interconversion of CO(2) and bicarbonate, the forms of inorganic carbon used by the primary carboxylating enzymes of C(3) and C(4) plants, respectively. Multiple forms of CA are found in both photosynthetic subtypes; however, the number of isoforms and the location and function of each have not been elucidated for any single plant species. Genomic Southern analyses showed that the C(4) dicotyledon Flaveria bidentis 'Kuntze' contains a small gene family encoding beta-CA and cDNAs encoding three distinct beta-CAs, named CA1, CA2, and CA3, were isolated. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reactions showed that each member of this beta-CA family has a specific expression pattern in F. bidentis leaves, roots, and flowers. CA3 transcripts were at least 50 times more abundant than CA2 or CA1 transcripts in leaves. CA2 transcripts were detected in all organs examined and were the most abundant CA transcripts in roots. CA1 mRNA levels were similar to those of CA2 in leaves, but were considerably lower in roots and flowers. In vitro import assays showed CA1 was imported into isolated pea (Pisum sativum) chloroplasts, whereas CA2 and CA3 were not. These results support the following roles for F. bidentis CAs: CA3 is responsible for catalyzing the first step in the C(4) pathway in the mesophyll cell cytosol; CA2 provides bicarbonate for anapleurotic reactions involving nonphotosynthetic forms of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase in the cytosol of cells in both photosynthetic and nongreen tissues; and CA1 carries out nonphotosynthetic functions demonstrated by C(3) chloroplastic beta-CAs, including lipid biosynthesis and antioxidant activity.
Snf5-like proteins are components of multiprotein chromatin remodeling complexes involved in the ATP-dependent alteration of DNA-histone contacts. Mostly described in yeast and animals, the only plant SNF5-like gene characterized so far has been BSH from Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. We report the cloning and characterization of expression of a SNF5-like gene from pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Lincoln), which has been designated PsSNF5. Southern analysis showed a single copy of the gene in the pea genome. The cDNA contained a 723bp open reading frame encoding a 240 amino acid protein of 27.4kDa with a potential nuclear localization signal. PsSNF5 protein sequence closely resembled BSH, with which it showed an overall amino acid identity of 78.5%. Two-hybrid experiments showed that PsSNF5 is functionally interchangeable with Arabidopsis BSH in the interactions with other components of the remodeling complex. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that PsSNF5 clustered with translated expressed sequence tags from other Leguminosae, hypothetically coding for new Snf5-like proteins. RT-PCR expression analysis demonstrated that the PsSNF5 gene is constitutively expressed in all the tissues examined, with minor differences in expression level in different tissues. Nevertheless, expression analysis revealed that PsSNF5 was up-regulated in the last stages of embryo development, when water content decreases. Moreover, abscisic acid and drought stress induced PsSNF5 accumulation in germinating embryos and vegetative tissues, suggesting that chromatin remodeling induced by PsSNF5-containing complexes might contribute to the response to that phytohormone.
Genes controlling the transition to flowering have been studied in several species, including Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa), but have not yet received much attention in legumes. Here, we describe a new allelic series of late-flowering, photoperiod-insensitive mutants in the pea (Pisum sativum) LATE BLOOMER1 (LATE1) gene and show that LATE1 is an ortholog of Arabidopsis GIGANTEA. Mutants display defects in phytochrome B-dependent deetiolation under red light and in the diurnal regulation of pea homologs of several Arabidopsis circadian clock genes, including TIMING OF CAB1, EARLY FLOWERING4, and CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED1/LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL. LATE1 itself shows strongly rhythmic expression with a small but distinct acute peak following dark-to-light transfer. Mutations in LATE1 prevent the induction of a FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) homolog FTL in long days but cause only minor alteration to the rhythmic expression pattern of the only known group Ia CONSTANS homolog COLa. The late-flowering phenotype of late1 mutants can be completely rescued by grafting to the wild type, but this rescue is not associated with a significant increase in FTL transcript level in shoot apices. Genetic interactions of late1 with the photoperiod-insensitive, early-flowering sterile nodes (sn) mutant and impairment of the LATE1 diurnal expression rhythm in sn plants suggest that SN may also affect the circadian clock. These results show that several functions of Arabidopsis GIGANTEA are conserved in its pea ortholog and demonstrate that genetic pathways for photoperiodic flowering are likely to be conserved between these two species. They also suggest that in addition to its role in the floral transition, LATE1 also acts throughout reproductive development.
Three copies of the gene that encodes cytochrome c oxidase subunit Vb were isolated from the pea (PscoxVb-1, PscoxVb-2, and PscoxVb-3). Northern Blot and reverse transcriptase-PCR analyses suggest that all 3 genes are transcribed in the pea. Each pea coxVb gene has an N-terminal extended sequence that can encode a mitochondrial targeting signal, called a presequence. The localization of green fluorescent proteins fused with the presequence strongly suggests the targeting of pea COXVb proteins to mitochondria. Each pea coxVb gene has 5 intron sites within the coding region. These are similar to Arabidopsis and rice, although the intron lengths vary greatly. A phylogenetic analysis of coxVb suggests the occurrence of gene duplication events during angiosperm evolution. In particular, 2 duplication events might have occurred in legumes, grasses, and Solanaceae. A comparison of amino acid sequences in COXVb or its counterpart shows the conservation of several amino acids within a zinc finger motif. Interestingly, a homology search analysis showed that bacterial protein COG4391 and a mitochondrial complex I 13 kDa subunit also have similar amino acid compositions around this motif. Such similarity might reflect evolutionary relationships among the 3 proteins.
Legume-Rhizobium nitrogen fixation is dramatically affected under drought and other environmental constraints. However, it has yet to be established as to whether such regulation of nitrogen fixation is only exerted at the whole-plant level (e.g. by a systemic nitrogen feedback mechanism) or can also occur at a local nodule level. To address this question, nodulated pea (Pisum sativum) plants were grown in a split-root system, which allowed for half of the root system to be irrigated at field capacity, while the other half was water deprived, thus provoking changes in the nodule water potential. Nitrogen fixation only declined in the water-deprived, half-root system and this result was correlated with modifications in the activities of key nodule's enzymes such as sucrose synthase and isocitrate dehydrogenase and in nodular malate content. Furthermore, the decline in nodule water potential resulted in a cell redox imbalance. The results also indicate that systemic nitrogen feedback signaling was not operating in these water-stressed plants, since nitrogen fixation activity was maintained at control values in the watered half of the split-root plants. Thus, the use of a partially droughted split-root system provides evidence that nitrogen fixation activity under drought stress is mainly controlled at the local level rather than by a systemic nitrogen signal.
The symbiotic association between legumes and nitrogen-fixing bacteria collectively known as rhizobia results in the formation of a unique plant root organ called the nodule. This process is initiated following the perception of rhizobial nodulation factors by the host plant. Nod factor (NF)-stimulated plant responses, including nodulation-specific gene expression, is mediated by the NF signaling pathway. Plant mutants in this pathway are unable to nodulate. We describe here the cloning and characterization of two mutant alleles of the Medicago truncatula ortholog of the Lotus japonicus and pea (Pisum sativum) NIN gene. The Mtnin mutants undergo excessive root hair curling but are impaired in infection and fail to form nodules following inoculation with Sinorhizobium meliloti. Our investigation of early NF-induced gene expression using the reporter fusion ENOD11::GUS in the Mtnin-1 mutant demonstrates that MtNIN is not essential for early NF signaling but may negatively regulate the spatial pattern of ENOD11 expression. It was recently shown that an autoactive form of a nodulation-specific calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase is sufficient to induce nodule organogenesis in the absence of rhizobia. We show here that MtNIN is essential for autoactive calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase-induced nodule organogenesis. The non-nodulating hcl mutant has a similar phenotype to Mtnin, but we demonstrate that HCL is not required in this process. Based on our data, we suggest that MtNIN functions downstream of the early NF signaling pathway to coordinate and regulate the correct temporal and spatial formation of root nodules.
The hydrolysis of sucrose, the principal dietary source of carbon for aphids, is catalysed by a gut alpha-glucosidase/transglucosidase activity. An alpha-glucosidase, referred to as APS1, was identified in both a gut-specific cDNA library and a sucrase-enriched membrane preparation from guts of the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum by a combination of genomic and proteomic techniques. APS1 contains a predicted signal peptide, and has a predicted molecular mass of 68 kDa (unprocessed) or 66.4 kDa (mature protein). It has amino acid sequence similarity to alpha-glucosidases (EC 3.2.1.20) of glycoside hydrolase family 13 in other insects. The predicted APS1 protein contains two domains: an N-terminal catalytic domain, and a C-terminal hydrophobic domain. In situ localisation and RT-PCR studies revealed that APS1 mRNA was expressed in the gut distal to the stomach, the same localisation as sucrase activity. When expressed heterologously in Xenopus embryos, APS1 was membrane-bound and had sucrase activity. It is concluded that APS1 is a dominant, and possibly sole, protein mediating sucrase activity in the aphid gut.
NADPH is an essential electron donor in numerous biosynthetic and detoxification reactions. In animal, yeast and bacteria, the NADP-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP-ICDH), which catalyzes the production of NADPH, is being recognized as an essential component of the antioxidative defence mechanisms. In plant cells, there is little information on the antioxidant properties of NADP-ICDH. Using a pea cDNA lambdagt11 library, the full-length cDNA of a NADP-ICDH was obtained. In pea leaves, the analyses of activity, protein and transcript expression of NADP-ICDH under six different abiotic stress conditions (CL, continuous light, HLI, high light intensity, D, continuous dark, LT, low-temperature HT, high-temperature and W, mechanical wounding) revealed a differential regulation at transcriptional and post-translational level depending on the abiotic stress. The activity and protein expression of NADP-ICDH and catalase increased only under HLI but the NADP-ICDH transcripts were up-regulated by cold stress (70%) and W (40%). Under the same conditions, the transcript analysis of glutathione reductase (GR), monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDAR) and ascorbate peroxidase (APX), key components of the antioxidative ascorbate-glutathione cycle, showed similar inductions. These data indicate that in pea plants the cytosolic NADP-ICDH shows a differential response, at mRNA and activity level, depending on the type of abiotic stress and suggests that this dehydrogenase could have a protective antioxidant role against certain environmental stresses in plants.
Experiments were undertaken to test how aquaporins (AQPs) facilitate the uptake of water by roots of Pisum sativum. Changes in PsPIP2-1 gene expression and root hydraulic conductivity (Lpr) were measured in response to the time of day as well as treatment of the roots with a compound that reduced Lpr [i.e. mercuric chloride (HgCl2)] and one that was intended to increase Lpr [abscisic acid (ABA)]. There was a diurnal rhythm in PsPIP2-1 expression in lateral roots that was strongly correlated with diurnal changes in Lpr. Taproots also displayed a rhythm in PsPIP2-1 expression, but this was offset from that of Lpr. This suggested that changes in Lpr were mediated by changes in PsPIP2-1 mRNA transcript abundance. Reduction of Lpr by HgCl2 treatment was accompanied by an increase in PsPIP2-1 expression, implying that PsPIP2-1 expression may have increased to compensate for AQPs blocked by mercury. ABA usually increased Lpr, but changes in PsPIP2-1 were variable and the direction of the response was strongly dependent on the dose of ABA that was applied. Overall, the coincident rhythms in Lpr and PIP2 expression and response to AQP blockage are consistent with the hypothesis that Lpr changes are mediated, at least in part, by changes in PsPIP2-1 expression. Inconsistencies with ABA data may have been due to more complex interactions of ABA with AQP channels.
In the parthenogenetic and viviparous pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum, germline specification depends on the germ plasm localized to the posterior region of the egg chamber before the formation of the blastoderm. During blastulation, germline segregation occurs at the egg posterior, and in early gastrulation germ cells are pushed inward by the invaginating germ band. Previous studies suggest that germ cells remain dorsal in the embryo in subsequent developmental stages. In fact, though, it is not known whether germ cells remain in place or migrate dynamically during katatrepsis and germ-band retraction. We cloned Apvasa, a pea aphid homologue of Drosophila vasa, and used it as a germline marker to monitor the migration of germ cells. Apvasa messenger RNA (mRNA) was first restricted to morphologically identifiable germ cells after blastoderm formation but that expression soon faded. Apvasa transcripts were again identified in germ cells from the stage when the endosymbiotic bacteria invaded the embryo, and after that, Apvasa mRNA was present in germ cells throughout all developmental stages. At the beginning of katatrepsis, germ cells were detected at the anteriormost region of the egg chamber as they were migrating into the body cavity. During the early period of germ-band retraction, germ cells were separated into several groups surrounded by a layer of somatic cells devoid of Apvasa staining, suggesting that the coalescence between migrating germ cells and the somatic gonadal mesoderm occurs between late katatrepsis and early germ-band retraction.
The constitutive expression of the pea ABR17 (abscisic acid-responsive 17) cDNA, which is a member of the group 10 family of pathogenesis-related proteins (PR 10), in Arabidopsis thaliana is reported. The presence of ABR17 transcripts and the protein in the three transgenic lines is demonstrated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and two-dimensional electrophoresis followed by tandem mass spectrometry, respectively. Three independently derived transgenic lines containing ABR17 germinated better in the presence of salt, cold temperature or both. Furthermore, the transgenic plants also exhibited enhanced tolerance to freezing temperature, suggesting the potential utility of the ABR17 gene to engineer multiple stress tolerance. In order to obtain insights into the mechanism underlying ABR17-mediated stress tolerance, we have compared the proteome of a transgenic line with that of its wild-type counterpart. Several proteins were observed to be significantly altered in the transgenic line, including some with a role(s) in photosynthesis, stress tolerance and the regulation of gene expression. Our findings are discussed within the context of available genes to engineer multiple stress tolerance as well as the biological activities of the ABR17 protein.
A suite of newly discovered sucrose transporter genes, PsSUF1, PsSUF4, PvSUT1 and PvSUF1, were isolated from the coats of developing pea (Pisum sativum L.) and bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) seeds. Sequence analysis indicated that deduced proteins encoded by PsSUF1, PvSUT1 and PvSUF1 clustered in a separate sub-group under sucrose transporter Clade I, whereas the deduced protein encoded by PsSUF4 clustered in Clade II. When expressed in yeast, these genes were shown to encode sucrose transporters with apparent Michaelis Menten constant (Km) values ranging from 8.9 to 99.8 mm. PvSUT1 exhibited functional characteristics of a sucrose/H+ symporter. In contrast, PsSUF1, PvSUF1 and PsSUF4 supported the pH- and energy independent transport of sucrose that was shown to be bi-directional. These transport properties, together with that of counter transport, indicated that PsSUF1, PvSUF1 and PsSUF4 function as carriers that support the facilitated diffusion of sucrose. Carrier function was unaffected by diethylpyrocarbonate and by maltose competition, suggesting that the sucrose binding sites of these transporters differed from those of known sucrose/H+ symporters. All sucrose transporters were expressed throughout the plant and, of greatest interest, were co-expressed in cells considered responsible for sucrose efflux from seed coats. The possible roles played by the novel facilitators in sucrose efflux from seed coats are discussed.
The cDNAs encoding three germin-like proteins (PsGER1, PsGER2a, and PsGER2b) were isolated from Pisum sativum. The coding sequence of PsGER1 transiently expressed in tobacco leaves gave a protein with superoxide dismutase activity but no detectable oxalate oxidase activity according to in-gel activity stains. The transient expression of wheat germin gf-2.8 oxalate oxidase showed oxalate oxidase but no superoxide dismutase activity under the same conditions. The superoxide dismutase activity of PsGER1 was resistant to high temperature, denaturation by detergent, and high concentrations of hydrogen peroxide. In salt-stressed pea roots, a heat-resistant superoxide dismutase activity was observed with an electrophoretic mobility similar to that of the PsGER1 protein, but this activity was below the detection limit in non-stressed or H(2)O(2)-stressed pea roots. Oxalate oxidase activity was not detected in either pea roots or nodules. Following in situ hybridization in developing pea nodules, PsGER1 transcript was detected in expanding cells just proximal to the meristematic zone and also in the epidermis, but to a lesser extent. PsGER1 is the first known germin-like protein with superoxide dismutase activity to be associated with nodules. It shared protein sequence identity with the N-terminal sequence of a putative plant receptor for rhicadhesin, a bacterial attachment protein. However, its primary location in nodules suggests functional roles other than as a rhicadhesin receptor required for the first stage of bacterial attachment to root hairs.
Pea albumin 1b (PA1b) is a small sulphur-rich peptide from pea seeds, also named leginsulin because of the binding characteristics of its soybean orthologue. Its insecticidal properties were discovered more recently. By using a combination of molecular, biochemical and specific insect bioassays on seed extracts, we characterised genes from numerous Papilionoideae, but not from Caesalpinioideae or Mimosoideae, although the last group harboured species with partially positive cues (homologous biological activities). The A1b defence peptide family, therefore, appears to have evolved relatively late in the legume lineage, maybe from the sophoroid group (e.g. Styphnolobium japonicum). However, unambiguous sequence information is restricted to a group of tribes within the subfamily Papilionoideae (Psoraleae, Millettieae, Desmodieae, Hedysareae, Phaseoleae, Vicieae, and the now clearly polyphyletic "Trifolieae" and "Galegeae"). Recent diversification by gene duplications has occurred in many species, or longer ago in some lineages (Medicago truncatula), as well as probable gene or expression losses at different taxonomic levels (Loteae, Vigna subterranea).
A key gene involved in plant senescence, mutations of which partially disable chlorophyll catabolism and confer stay-green leaf and cotyledon phenotypes, has been identified in Pisum sativum, Arabidopsis thaliana, and Festuca pratensis by using classical and molecular genetics and comparative genomics. A stay-green locus in F. pratensis is syntenically equivalent to a similar stay-green locus on rice chromosome 9. Functional testing in Arabidopsis of a homolog of the rice candidate gene revealed (i) senescence-associated gene expression and (ii) a stay-green phenotype after RNA interference silencing. Genetic mapping in pea demonstrated cosegregation with the yellow/green cotyledon polymorphism (I/i) first reported by Gregor Mendel in 1866.
Ferredoxin-NADP(H) reductase (FNR) catalyzes the last step of photosynthetic electron transport in chloroplasts, driving electrons from reduced ferredoxin to NADP+. This reaction is rate limiting for photosynthesis under a wide range of illumination conditions, as revealed by analysis of plants transformed with an antisense version of the FNR gene. To investigate whether accumulation of this flavoprotein over wild-type levels could improve photosynthetic efficiency and growth, we generated transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants expressing a pea (Pisum sativum) FNR targeted to chloroplasts. The alien product distributed between the thylakoid membranes and the chloroplast stroma. Transformants grown at 150 or 700 micromol quanta m(-2) s(-1) displayed wild-type phenotypes regardless of FNR content. Thylakoids isolated from plants with a 5-fold FNR increase over the wild type displayed only moderate stimulation (approximately 20%) in the rates of electron transport from water to NADP+. In contrast, when donors of photosystem I were used to drive NADP+ photoreduction, the activity was 3- to 4-fold higher than the wild-type controls. Plants expressing various levels of FNR (from 1- to 3.6-fold over the wild type) failed to show significant differences in CO2 assimilation rates when assayed over a range of light intensities and CO2 concentrations. Transgenic lines exhibited enhanced tolerance to photooxidative damage and redox-cycling herbicides that propagate reactive oxygen species. The results suggest that photosynthetic electron transport has several rate-limiting steps, with FNR catalyzing just one of them.
Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viciae strain 3841 is a motile alpha-proteobacterium that can establish a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis within the roots of pea plants. In order to determine the contribution of chemotaxis to the lifestyle of R. leguminosarum, we have characterized the function of two chemotaxis gene clusters (che1 and che2) in controlling motility behaviour. We have found that both chemotaxis gene clusters modulate the motility swimming bias of R. leguminosarum cells and that the che1 cluster is the major pathway controlling swimming bias and chemotaxis. The che2 cluster also contributes to swimming bias, but has a minor effect on chemotaxis. Using competitive nodulation assays, we have demonstrated that a functional che1 cluster, but not the che2 cluster, promotes competitive nodulation of the peas. This finding implies that the environmental cue(s) triggering chemotaxis of R. leguminosarum bv. viciae cells towards the roots of pea and facilitating colonization are likely to be processed through the che1 cluster despite the contribution of both che clusters to swimming behaviour. A phylogenetic analysis of the distribution of che1 and che2 orthologues in the alpha-proteobacteria together with our results allow us to propose that che1 homologues are major controllers of chemotaxis and host association in the Rhizobiaceae.
Newly generated plant tissue is inherently sensitive to infection. Yet, when pea (Pisum sativum) roots are inoculated with the pea pathogen, Nectria haematococca, most newly generated root tips remain uninfected even though most roots develop lesions just behind the tip in the region of elongation. The resistance mechanism is unknown but is correlated spatially with the presence of border cells on the cap periphery. Previously, an array of >100 extracellular proteins was found to be released while border cell separation proceeds. Here we report that protein secretion from pea root caps is induced in correlation with border cell separation. When this root cap secretome was proteolytically degraded during inoculation of pea roots with N. haematococca, the percentage of infected root tips increased from 4% +/- 3% to 100%. In control experiments, protease treatment of conidia or roots had no effect on growth and development of the fungus or the plant. A complex of >100 extracellular proteins was confirmed, by multidimensional protein identification technology, to comprise the root cap secretome. In addition to defense-related and signaling enzymes known to be present in the plant apoplast were ribosomal proteins, 14-3-3 proteins, and others typically associated with intracellular localization but recently shown to be extracellular components of microbial biofilms. We conclude that the root cap, long known to release a high molecular weight polysaccharide mucilage and thousands of living cells into the incipient rhizosphere, also secretes a complex mixture of proteins that appear to function in protection of the root tip from infection.
Chaltone synthase (CHS) is a key speed-limiting enzyme in the phenylpropanoid pathway which plays an important role in plant defense response against pathogens. In the PsCHS1 promoter, there is an AT-rich element (ATRE) which is required for the maximal elicitor-mediated activation. However, the transcription activator of the ATRE and its regulation mechanism in pea keep unclear. In this paper, a new ATRE-binding factor was isolated from an elicitor-induced pea cDNA expression library and was designated as PsATF1. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) indicated the ATRE-specific binding activity of PsATF1. Beta-galactosidase assays in yeast cells suggested that PsATF1 possessed transcription-activating activity because PsATF1 activated the expression of the reporter gene even without the GAL4 activation domain (AD). The current study also examined the co-activation effects of PsATF1 with another transcription factor PsGBF on ATRE or PsCHS1 promoter through a transient expression system. The present work reports that PsATF1 acts as a complete transcription activator and first indicates that there are combined effects of PsATF1 with PsGBF on the activation of PsCHS1 promoter. These results provide theoretical basis to the plant defense gene expression mechanism regulated by multiple activators.
Thioredoxins (TRXs) are small ubiquitous oxidoreductases involved in disulfide bond reduction of a large panel of target proteins. The most complex cluster in the family of plant TRXs is formed by h-type TRXs. In Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), nine members of this subgroup were described, which are less well known than their plastidial counterparts. The functional study of type-h TRXs is difficult because of the high number of isoforms and their similar biochemical characteristics, thus raising the question whether they have specific or redundant functions. Type-h TRXs are involved in seed germination and self incompatibility in pollen-pistil interaction. Their function as antioxidants has recently been proposed, but further work is needed to clarify this function in plants. In this study, we describe two new h-type TRXs from pea (Pisum sativum; stated PsTRXh1 and PsTRXh2). By functional complementation of a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) trx1Delta trx2Delta double mutant, we demonstrate that PsTRXh1 is involved in the redox-imbalance control, possibly through its interaction with peroxiredoxins. In contrast, PsTRXh2 provokes a phenotype of hypersensitivity to hydrogen peroxide in the yeast mutant. Furthermore, we show differential gene expression and protein accumulation of the two isoforms, PsTRXh1 protein being abundantly detected in vascular tissue and flowers, whereas PsTRXh2 gene expression was hardly detectable. By comparison with previous data of additional PsTRXh isoforms, our results indicate specific functions for the pea h-type TRXs so far described.
The arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) is characterized by specific morphological structures of the fungus and the plant and by physiological adaptations which are mostly beneficial for both partners of the symbiosis. This review describes approaches to study the molecular basis of the interaction. RNA accumulation patterns have been monitored in Pisum sativum to analyse the plant response to arbuscule development. In a direct approach, the Mtha1 gene from Medicago truncatula was cloned which is expressed in arbusculated cells of M. truncatula. The gene putatively encodes an H(+)-ATPase involved in the improved plant nutrition during mycorrhization. Finally, a tripartite system between M. truncatula, Glomus mosseae and Aphanomyces euteiches was established, in order to study bioprotection. Analysis of the transcriptome has been started to analyse the interaction between the plant, the pathogen and the AM fungus.
The long-term effects of 50 microM CdCl(2) on the enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidative defences of pea (Pisum sativum L.) plants was studied in terms of activity, protein content and transcripts levels. Cadmium caused a reduction of the total glutathione content (GSH+GSSG), with the reduced form of glutathione (GSH) being most affected. The content of ascorbic acid (ASC) was also decreased by the treatment. The transcript levels of catalase (CAT) and monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDHAR) showed a Cd-dependent increase, although CAT activity and its protein content were depressed, which suggests a posttranslational modification of this protein induced by cadmium. Glutathione reductase (GR), and ascorbate peroxidase (APX) did not change significantly, either in activity or accumulation of transcript. However, cadmium treatment provoked a strong reduction in mRNA, protein level and activity of CuZn-superoxide dismutase (SOD), being the most negatively affected antioxidative enzyme, and in less extent of Mn-SOD. Transcriptome analysis of the antioxidative enzymes in leaves of pea plants grown with cadmium and treated with some modulators of the signal transduction cascade suggested that at least Ca(2+) channels, phosphorylation/dephosphorylation processes, nitric oxide, cGMP, salicylic acid (SA) and H(2)O(2) were involved in some steps between the cadmium signal and transcript expression of CuZn-SOD, CAT and MDHAR. This indicated the existence of cross-talk between these elements and reactive oxygen species (ROS) metabolism during cadmium stress.
A soybean cytosolic glutamine synthetase gene (GS15) fused to a constitutive promoter (CaMV 35S), a putative nodule-specific promoter (LBC(3)), or a putative root-specific promoter (rolD) was transformed into Pisum sativum L. cv. Greenfeast. Four lines with single copies (Lines 1, 7, 8 and 9) and four lines with two copies each of GS15 (Lines 2, 4, 6 and 11) were compared to the wild-type (WT) parental line for levels of cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1), glutamine synthetase (GS) activity, N accumulation, N derived form the atmosphere (NDFA), and biomass of plants grown on 0.0, 0.1, 1.0 or 10.0 mM NH(4)(+). Enhanced levels of GS1 were detected in leaves of one of the two lines transformed with the 35S-GS15 construct, and all three lines containing the rolD-GS15 construct. All three lines containing the LBC(3)-GS15 construct had increased levels of GS1 in nodules. Despite the increased levels of GS1 in many transformants, only the roots of lines containing the rolD-GS15 construct consistently demonstrated enhanced levels of GS activity (up to 12-fold). Positive responses in plant N content, NDFA, and biomass were rare, but increases in plant biomass and N content of up to 17% and 54%, respectively, occurred in some of the rolD-GS15 lines at certain levels of ammonium. In general, GS15 copy number did not seem to differentially affect phenotype of the transformants, and transformants respond to ammonium concentrations in similar patterns to that previously observed with nitrate. Despite the fact that the rolD-GS15 transformants consistently resulted in increased GS activity in roots and resulted in some occurrences of increases in biomass and plant N content, the lack of consistent positive growth effect across all transformants indicates that the generalized overexpression of GS1 in tissues holds little potential for positive growth responses in pea.
Plant development is characterized by a profound ability to regenerate and form tissues with new axes of polarity. An unsolved question concerns how the position within a tissue and cues from neighboring cells are integrated to specify the polarity of individual cells. The canalization hypothesis proposes a feedback effect of the phytohormone auxin on the directionality of intercellular auxin flow as a means to polarize tissues. Here we identify a cellular and molecular mechanism for canalization. Local auxin application, wounding, or auxin accumulation during de novo organ formation lead to rearrangements in the subcellular polar localization of PIN auxin transport components. This auxin effect on PIN polarity is cell-specific, does not depend on PIN transcription, and involves the Aux/IAA-ARF (indole-3-acetic acid-auxin response factor) signaling pathway. Our data suggest that auxin acts as polarizing cue, which links individual cell polarity with tissue and organ polarity through control of PIN polar targeting. This feedback regulation provides a conceptual framework for polarization during multiple regenerative and patterning processes in plants.
PsEND1 is a pea anther-specific gene that displays very early expression in the anther primordium cells. Later on, PsEND1 expression becomes restricted to the epidermis, connective, endothecium and middle layer, but it is never observed in tapetal cells or microsporocytes. We fused the PsEND1 promoter region to the cytotoxic barnase gene to induce specific ablation of the cell layers where the PsEND1 is expressed and consequently to produce male-sterile plants. Expression of the chimaeric PsEND1::barnase gene in two Solanaceae (Nicotiana tabacum and Solanum lycopersicon) and two Brassicaceae (Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica napus) species, impairs anther development from very early stages and produces complete male-sterile plants. The PsEND1::barnase gene is quite different to other chimaeric genes previously used in similar approaches to obtain male-sterile plants. The novelty resides in the use of the PsEND1 promoter, instead of a tapetum-specific promoter, to produce the ablation of specific cell lines during the first steps of the anther development. This chimaeric construct arrests the microsporogenesis before differentiation of the microspore mother cells and no viable pollen grains are produced. This strategy represents an excellent alternative to generate genetically engineered male-sterile plants, which have proved useful in breeding programmes for the production of hybrid seeds. The PsEND1 promoter also has high potential to prevent undesirable horizontal gene flow in many plant species.
The expression patterns of five genes (PsGA20ox1, PsGA20ox2, PsGA3ox1, PsGA2ox1, and PsGA2ox2) encoding five regulatory gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis enzymes (two GA 20-oxidases, a GA 3beta-hydroxylase, and two GA 2beta-hydroxylases) were examined to gain insight into how these genes coordinate GA biosynthesis during germination and early postgermination stages of the large-seeded dicotyledonous plant pea (Pisum sativum). At the time the developing embryo fills the seed coat, high mRNA levels of PsGA20ox2 (primarily responsible for conversion of C20-GAs to GA(20)), PsGA2ox1 (primarily responsible for conversion of GA(20) to GA(29)), and PsGA2ox2 (primarily responsible for conversion of GA(1) to GA(8)) were detected in the seeds, along with high GA(20) and GA(29) levels, the enzymatic products of these genes. Embryo maturation was accompanied by a large reduction in PsGA20ox2 and PsGA2ox1 mRNA and lower GA(20) and GA(29) levels. However, PsGA2ox2 transcripts remained high. Following seed imbibition, GA(20) levels in the cotyledons decreased, while PsGA3ox1 mRNA and GA(1) levels increased, implying that GA(20) was being used for de novo synthesis of GA(1). The presence of the embryo axis was required for stimulation of cotyledonary GA(1) synthesis at the mRNA and enzyme activity levels. As the embryo axis doubled in size, PsGA20ox1 and PsGA3ox1 transcripts increased, both GA(1) and GA(8) were detectable, PsGA2ox2 transcripts decreased, and PsGA2ox1 transcripts remained low. Cotyledonary-, root-, and shoot-specific expression of these GA biosynthesis genes and the resultant endogenous GA profiles support a key role for de novo GA biosynthesis in each organ during germination and early seedling growth of pea.
Gravity-controlled transport of auxin was studied for a negative gravitropic response in the early growth stage of etiolated pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Alaska) seedlings, in which epicotyl bending was observed near the cotyledon nodes of the seedlings grown continuously from seeds germinated in a horizontal or an inclined position. Increased expression of an auxin-inducible gene, PsIAA4/5, was observed in the elongated side of epicotyls grown in a horizontal or an inclined position. Regardless of the conditions of seed germination, polar auxin transport in the proximal side of the first internodes of the seedlings was significantly higher than in the distal side. Polar auxin transport in the proximal side of epicotyls grown in an inclined position was significantly lower than in those grown in a horizontal position. In contrast, lateral auxin distribution from the proximal to distal sides in epicotyls grown in an inclined position was significantly higher than in epicotyls grown in a horizontal position. Accumulation of PsPIN1 mRNA encoding a putative auxin efflux facilitator, which was observed in vascular tissue, cortex and epidermis in the proximal and distal sides of epicotyls, was markedly influenced by gravistimulation. These results strongly suggest that gravistimulation induces changeable polar auxin transport and one-way lateral auxin distribution in epicotyls as well as asymmetric auxin accumulation in the proximal and distal sides of epicotyls, resulting in a negative gravitropic response of epicotyls in the early growth stage of pea seedlings.
We have previously demonstrated that vacuolar sorting receptor (VSR) proteins are concentrated on prevacuolar compartments (PVCs) in plant cells. PVCs in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells are multivesicular bodies (MVBs) as defined by VSR proteins and the BP-80 reporter, where the transmembrane domain (TMD) and cytoplasmic tail (CT) sequences of BP-80 are sufficient and specific for correct targeting of the reporter to PVCs. The genome of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains seven VSR proteins, but little is known about their individual subcellular localization and function. Here, we study the subcellular localization of the seven Arabidopsis VSR proteins (AtVSR1-7) based on the previously proven hypothesis that the TMD and CT sequences correctly target individual VSR to its final destination in transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells. Toward this goal, we have generated seven chimeric constructs containing signal peptide (sp) linked to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and TMD/CT sequences (sp-GFP-TMD/CT) of the seven individual AtVSR. Transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell lines expressing these seven sp-GFP-TMD-CT fusions all exhibited typical punctate signals colocalizing with VSR proteins by confocal immunofluorescence. In addition, wortmannin caused the GFP-marked prevacuolar organelles to form small vacuoles, and VSR antibodies labeled these enlarged MVBs in transgenic BY-2 cells. Wortmannin also caused VSR-marked PVCs to vacuolate in other cell types, including Arabidopsis, rice (Oryza sativa), pea (Pisum sativum), and mung bean (Vigna radiata). Therefore, the seven AtVSRs are localized to MVBs in tobacco BY-2 cells, and wortmannin-induced vacuolation of PVCs is a general response in plants.
Physiological and genetic studies with the ramosus (rms) mutants in garden pea (Pisum sativum) and more axillary shoots (max) mutants in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) have shown that shoot branching is regulated by a network of long-distance signals. Orthologous genes RMS1 and MAX4 control the synthesis of a novel graft-transmissible branching signal that may be a carotenoid derivative and acts as a branching inhibitor. In this study, we demonstrate further conservation of the branching control system by showing that MAX2 and MAX3 are orthologous to RMS4 and RMS5, respectively. This is consistent with the long-standing hypothesis that branching in pea is regulated by a novel long-distance signal produced by RMS1 and RMS5 and that RMS4 is implicated in the response to this signal. We examine RMS5 expression and show that it is more highly expressed relative to RMS1, but under similar transcriptional regulation as RMS1. Further expression studies support the hypothesis that RMS4 functions in shoot and rootstock and participates in the feedback regulation of RMS1 and RMS5 expression. This feedback involves a second novel long-distance signal that is lacking in rms2 mutants. RMS1 and RMS5 are also independently regulated by indole-3-acetic acid. RMS1, rather than RMS5, appears to be a key regulator of the branching inhibitor. This study presents new interactions between RMS genes and provides further evidence toward the ongoing elucidation of a model of axillary bud outgrowth in pea.
Comparative studies help shed light on how the huge diversity in plant forms found in nature has been produced. We use legume species to study developmental differences in inflorescence architecture and flower ontogeny with classical models such as Arabidopsis thaliana or Antirrhinum majus. Whereas genetic control of these processes has been analyzed mostly in pea (Pisum sativum), Medicago truncatula is emerging as a promising alternative system for these studies due to the availability of a range of genetic tools. To assess the use of the retrotransposon Tnt1 for reverse genetics in M. truncatula, we screened a small Tnt1-mutagenized population using degenerate primers for MADS-box genes, known controllers of plant development. We describe here the characterization of mtpim, a new mutant caused by the insertion of Tnt1 in a homolog to the PROLIFERATING INFLORESCENCE MERISTEM (PIM)/APETALA1 (AP1)/SQUAMOSA genes. mtpim shows flower-to-inflorescence conversion and altered flowers with sepals transformed into leaves, indicating that MtPIM controls floral meristem identity and flower development. Although more extreme, this phenotype resembles the pea pim mutants, supporting the idea that M. truncatula could be used to complement analysis of reproductive development already initiated in pea. In fact, our study reveals aspects not shown by analysis of pea mutants: that the mutation in the AP1 homolog interferes with the specification of floral organs from common primordia and causes conversion of sepals into leaves, in addition to true conversion of flowers into inflorescences. The isolation of mtpim represents a proof of concept demonstrating that Tnt1 populations can be efficiently used in reverse genetics screenings in M. truncatula.
In the absence of added thiamine, Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae strain 3841 does not grow in liquid medium and forms only "pin" colonies on agar plates, which contrasts with the good growth of Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021, Mesorhizobium loti 303099, and Rhizobium etli CFN42. These last three organisms have thiCOGE genes, which are essential for de novo thiamine synthesis. While R. leguminosarum bv. viciae 3841 lacks thiCOGE, it does have thiMED. Mutation of thiM prevented formation of pin colonies on agar plates lacking added thiamine, suggesting thiamine intermediates are normally present. The putative functions of ThiM, ThiE, and ThiD are 4-methyl-5-(beta-hydroxyethyl) thiazole (THZ) kinase, thiamine phosphate pyrophosphorylase, and 4-amino-5-hydroxymethyl-2-methyl pyrimidine (HMP) kinase, respectively. This suggests that a salvage pathway operates in R. leguminosarum, and addition of HMP and THZ enabled growth at the same rate as that enabled by thiamine in strain 3841 but elicited no growth in the thiM mutant (RU2459). There is a putative thi box sequence immediately upstream of the thiM, and a gfp-mut3.1 fusion to it revealed the presence of a promoter that is strongly repressed by thiamine. Using fluorescent microscopy and quantitative reverse transcription-PCR, it was shown that thiM is expressed in the rhizosphere of vetch and pea plants, indicating limitation for thiamine. Pea plants infected by RU2459 were not impaired in nodulation or nitrogen fixation. However, colonization of the pea rhizosphere by the thiM mutant was impaired relative to that of the wild type. Overall, the results show that a thiamine salvage pathway operates to enable growth of Rhizobium leguminosarum in the rhizosphere, allowing its survival when thiamine is limiting.
With the use of in vivo recombination theory, the screening time of yeast one-hybrid system was decreased in the present study. A basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) protein PsGBF was successfully obtained from a glutathione (GSH)-induced pea cDNA library using the G-box cis-element of the PsCHS1 promoter as a bait. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) and beta-galactosidase assay results suggested that PsGBF possesses both G-box-specific binding and transcription-activating activities. The specific interaction of PsGBF with G-box was further confirmed by in vivo transient expression assays in tobacco. The current study examined the combination effect of G-box with Box I elements in the interaction with PsGBF or OsMYC. The results indicated that PsGBF bound with the G-box, but not the Box I element. Moreover, this combination effect of G-box and Box I only associated with PsGBF but not with other bHLH-type proteins such as OsMYC.
Increasing evidence suggests that heat acclimation and exogenous salicylic acid (SA) and abscisic acid (ABA) may lead to the enhancement of thermotolerance in plants. In this study, the roles that free SA, conjugated SA, ABA, and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2))-specific phospholipase C (PLC) play in thermotolerance development induced by heat acclimation (38 degrees C) were investigated. To evaluate their potential functions, three inhibitors of synthesis or activity were infiltrated into pea leaves prior to heat acclimation treatment. The results showed that the burst of free SA in response to heat acclimation could be attributed to the conversion of SA 2-O-D-glucose, the main conjugated form of SA, to free SA. Inhibition of ABA biosynthesis also resulted in a defect in the free SA peak during heat acclimation. In acquired thermotolerance assessment, the greatest weakness of antioxidant enzyme activity and the most severe heat injury (malondialdehyde content and degree of wilting) were found in pea leaves pre-treated with neomycin, a well-known inhibitor of PIP(2)-PLC activity. PsPLC gene expression was activated by exogenous ABA, SA treatments, and heat acclimation after pre-treatments with a SA biosynthesis inhibitor. From these results, PIP(2)-PLC appears to play a key role in free SA- and ABA-associated reinforcement of thermotolerance resulting from heat acclimation.
Growth of pea (Pisum sativum L.) plants with 50 microM CdCl2 for 15 d produced a reduction in the number and length of lateral roots, and changes in structure of the principal roots affecting the xylem vessels. Cadmium induced a reduction in glutathione (GSH) and ascorbate (ASC) contents, and catalase (CAT), GSH reductase (GR) and guaiacol peroxidase (GPX) activities. CuZn-superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was also diminished by the Cd treatment, although Mn-SOD was slightly increased. CAT and CuZn-SOD were down-regulated at transcriptional level, while Mn-SOD, Fe-SOD and GR were up-regulated. Analysis of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO) levels by fluorescence and confocal laser microscopy (CLM) showed an over-accumulation of O2*- and H2O2, and a reduction in the NO content in lateral and principal roots. ROS overproduction was dependent on changes in intracellular Ca+2 content, and peroxidases and NADPH oxidases were involved. Cadmium also produced an increase in salicylic acid (SA), jasmonic acid (JA) and ethylene (ET) contents. The rise of ET and ROS, and the NO decrease are in accordance with senescence processes induced by Cd, and the increase of JA and SA could regulate the cellular response to cope with damages imposed by cadmium.
The symbiosis between legumes and rhizobia is characterised by the formation of dinitrogen-fixing root nodules. In natural conditions, nitrogen fixation is strongly impaired by abiotic stresses which generate over-production of reactive oxygen species. Since one of the nodule main antioxidant systems is the ascorbate-glutathione cycle, NADPH recycling that is involved in glutathione reduction is of great relevance under stress conditions. NADPH is mainly produced by glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH; EC 1.1.1.49) and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGDH; EC 1.1.1.44) from the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway, and also by NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDH; EC 1.1.1.42). In this work, 10 microM paraquat (PQ) was applied to pea roots in order to determine the in vivo relationship between oxidative stress and the activity of the NADPH-generating enzymes in nodules. Whereas G6PDH and 6PGDH activities remained unchanged, a remarkable induction of ICDH gene expression and a dramatic increase of the ICDH activity was observed during the PQ treatment. These results support that ICDH has a key role in NADPH recycling under oxidative stress conditions in pea root nodules.
Using in situ hybridization the delta1- and delta3-cyclin gene expression has been shown in pea (Pisum sativum L.) root meristem cells under slow horizontal clinorotation and in the stationary conditions. The clinorotation effect on expression of these genes during pea root germination was detected. The delay of degradation of cyclin subunits is the cause of G1-phase prolongation under clinorotation leading to delay of pea seed germination. This may explain the increase of cell cycle duration.
The pcd1 mutant of pea lacks heme oxygenase (HO) activity required for the synthesis of the phytochrome chromophore and is consequently severely deficient in all responses mediated by the phytochrome family of plant photoreceptors. Here we describe the isolation of the gene encoding pea heme oxygenase 1 (PsHO1) and confirm the presence of a mutation in this gene in the pcd1 mutant. PsHO1 shows a high degree of sequence homology to other higher plant HOs, in particular with those from other legume species. Expression of PsHO1 increased in response to white light, but did not respond strongly to narrow band light treatments. Analysis of the biochemical activity of PsHO1 expressed in Escherichia coli demonstrated requirements for reduced ferredoxin, a secondary reductant such as ascorbate and an iron chelator for maximum enzyme activity. Using the crystal structure data from homologous animal and bacterial HOs we have modelled the structure of PsHO1 and demonstrated a high degree of structural conservation despite limited primary sequence homology. However, the catalytic site of PsHO1 is larger than that of animal HOs indicating that it may accommodate an ascorbate molecule in close proximity to the heme. This could provide an explanation for why plant HOs show a strong and saturable dependence on this reductant.
Members of the phytochrome family of photoreceptors play key roles in vegetative plant development, including the regulation of stem elongation, leaf development and chlorophyll accumulation. Hormones have been implicated in the control of these processes in de-etiolating seedlings. However, the mechanisms by which the phytochromes regulate vegetative development in more mature plants are less well understood. Pea (Pisum sativum) mutant plants lacking phytochromes A and B, the two phytochromes present in this species, develop severe defects later in development, including short, thick, distorted internodes and reduced leaf expansion, chlorophyll content and CAB gene transcript level. Studies presented here indicate that many of these defects in phyA phyB mutant plants appear to be due to elevated ethylene production, and suggest that an important role of the phytochromes in pea is to restrict ethylene production to a level that does not inhibit vegetative growth. Mutant phyA phyB plants produce significantly more ethylene than WT plants, and application of an ethylene biosynthesis inhibitor rescued many aspects of the phyA phyB mutant phenotype. This deregulation of ethylene production in phy-deficient plants appears likely to be due, at least in part, to the elevated transcript levels of key ethylene-biosynthesis genes. The phytochrome A photoreceptor appears to play a prominent role in the regulation of ethylene production, as phyA, but not phyB, single-mutant plants also exhibit a phenotype consistent with elevated ethylene production. Potential interactions between ethylene and secondary plant hormones in the control of the phy-deficient mutant phenotype were explored, revealing that ethylene may inhibit stem elongation in part by reducing gibberellin levels.
The pea (Pisum sativum L.) varieties Baroness (United Kingdome) and Baccara (France) were transformed via Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated gene transfer with pGPTV binary vectors containing the bar gene in combination with two different antifungal genes coding for polygalacturonase-inhibiting protein (PGIP) from raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) driven by a double 35S promoter, or the stilbene synthase (Vst1) from grape (Vitis vinifera L.) driven by its own elicitor-inducible promoter. Transgenic lines were established and transgenes combined via conventional crossing. Resveratrol, produced by Vst1 transgenic plants, was detected using HPLC and the PGIP expression was determined in functional inhibition assays against fungal polygalacturonases. Stable inheritance of the antifungal genes in the transgenic plants was demonstrated.
We cloned a rice cDNA encoding a putative arginine decarboxylase (ADC) protein, a key enzyme involved with putrescine (Put) biosynthesis in plants. The isolated full-length cDNA (OsADC1) contains an insert consisting of 2451 bp. The longest open reading frame within encodes a putative protein of 702 amino acids, with a calculated molecular mass of 74 kDa and an isoelectric point of 4.9. ClustalW alignment revealed that the deduced OsADC1 protein sequence shares overall 60% and 61% identity at the amino acid level with the Pisum sativum and Glycine max ADC proteins, respectively. Additionally, several OsADC1 regions exhibited striking similarity with these two other plant ADC protein sequences, including motifs characteristic of ADC proteins. Further, RNA gel blot analysis revealed markedly increased OsADC1 mRNA levels in rice seedling leaves subjected to chilling stress. Interestingly, this treatment induced a concomitant increase in free Put levels in these samples, coincident with the observed elevated OsADC1 mRNA levels. To our knowledge, this represents the first direct evidence supporting essentially chilling-specific regulation of a rice ADC gene that also potentially influences Put accumulation, a phenomenon previously noted in cold-stressed rice seedlings.
The Unifoliata (Uni) gene plays a major role in development of the compound leaf in pea, but its regulation is unknown. In this study, we examined the effects of plant hormones on the expression of Uni, PsPK2 (the gene for a pea homolog of Arabidopsis PID, a regulator of PIN1 targeting), PsPIN1 (the major gene for a putative auxin efflux carrier) and LE (a gibberellin biosynthesis gene, GA3ox), and also examined mutual hormonal regulation of these genes, in pea shoot tips, including a number of mutants. The Uni promoter possessed putative auxin and gibberellin response elements. The PsPIN1 mRNA levels were increased in afila, which replaces leaflets with branched tendrils; and reduced in tendrilless, which replaces tendrils with leaflets, compared with the wild type (WT). In contrast, mRNA levels of LE were increased in uni and tendrilless and decreased in afila compared with the WT. Uni, PsPK2 and PsPIN1 are positively regulated by gibberellin and auxin, and were induced to higher levels by simultaneous application of auxin and gibberellin. Auxin induction of Uni, PsPK2 and PsPIN1 did not require de novo protein synthesis. LE was positively regulated by auxin and cytokinin. In conclusion, these results support the hypothesis that auxin and gibberellin positively regulate Uni, which controls pea compound leaf development. Also, Uni, PsPIN1, PsPK2 and LE are expressed differentially in the leaf mutants, suggesting that mutual regulation by auxin and gibberellin promotes compound leaf development.
At5g52560, a homolog of pea (Pisum sativum) UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase (PsUSP) was functionally annotated by expression in Escherichia coli and subsequent characterization of substrate specificity and kinetic properties. Arabidopsis contains a single USP gene (AtUSP) and evaluation of gene databases suggests that USP is unique to plants. The 69 kDa AtUSP gene product exhibited high activity with Glc-1-P, GlcA-1-P and Gal-1-P, but low activity with GlcNAc-1-P, Fuc-1-P, Man-1-P, inositol-1-P or Glc-6-P. AtUSP was activated by magnesium and preferred UTP as co-substrate. Apparent K(m) values for GlcA-1-P, Glc-1-P and UTP were 0.13 mM, 0.42 mM and 0.14 mM, respectively. In the reverse direction (pyrophosphorolysis), the apparent K(m) values for UDP-GlcA, UDP-Glc and pyrophosphate were 0.56 mM, 0.72 mM and 0.15 mM, respectively. USP enzyme activity (UDP-GlcA --> GlcA-1-P) was detected in Arabidopsis tissues with highest activity found in the inflorescence. As determined by semi-quantitative RT-PCR, AtUSP transcript is widely expressed with high levels detected in the inflorescence. To evaluate tissue-specific expression of AtUSP, histochemical GUS staining of plants transformed with AtUSPprom:GUS constructs was performed. In 7-day-old seedlings, GUS staining was detected in cotyledons, trichomes and vascular tissues of the primary root. In the inflorescence of older plants, high levels of GUS staining were detected in cauline leaves, the epidermis of the stem and in pollen. In silico analysis of AtUSP expression in developing pollen indicates that transcript levels increase as development proceeds from the uninucleate to the tricellular stage. The results suggest that AtUSP plays an important role in pollen development in Arabidopsis.
Seed polyphenols, polysaccharides and lipids often interfere with or degrade RNA, restricting its yield and quality. Existing RNA isolation methods specifically alleviate one or two of these challenges, but are usually designed for a single species rather than for a broad biodiversity. Many protocols also do not eliminate chromosomal DNA, which causes false positives in gene expression studies. The method reported here addresses all of the above challenges. The concentration of the phenol blocker polyvinylpyrrolidone in the extraction buffer was optimised for use on a broader range of species. DNase I was added to eliminate chromosomal DNA and the timing of this step was optimised. Lipids were removed by centrifugation. Polysaccharides and proteins, including excess DNase I, were separated from RNA during ethanol precipitation of nucleic acids. In seeds of five plant species from four taxonomically distant families, significant amounts of RNA were isolated in less than half the time typically required by previously reported methods. Colorimetric tests showed that the isolated RNA was free from interfering contaminants. In addition, reverse transcription-PCR confirmed that the isolated RNA was of appropriate quality and integrity for gene expression studies.
OEP16, a channel protein of the outer membrane of chloroplasts, has been implicated in amino acid transport and in the substrate-dependent import of protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase A. Two major clades of OEP16-related sequences were identified in land plants (OEP16-L and OEP16-S), which arose by a gene duplication event predating the divergence of seed plants and bryophytes. Remarkably, in angiosperms, OEP16-S genes evolved by gaining an additional exon that extends an interhelical loop domain in the pore-forming region of the protein. We analysed the sequence, structure and expression of the corresponding Arabidopsis genes (atOEP16-S and atOEP16-L) and demonstrated that following duplication, both genes diverged in terms of expression patterns and coding sequence. AtOEP16-S, which contains multiple G-box ABA-responsive elements (ABREs) in the promoter region, is regulated by ABI3 and ABI5 and is strongly expressed during the maturation phase in seeds and pollen grains, both desiccation-tolerant tissues. In contrast, atOEP-L, which lacks promoter ABREs, is expressed predominantly in leaves, is induced strongly by low-temperature stress and shows weak induction in response to osmotic stress, salicylic acid and exogenous ABA. Our results indicate that gene duplication, exon gain and regulatory sequence evolution each played a role in the divergence of OEP16 homologues in plants.
The genome of pea (Pisum sativum) contains genes encoding a family of distinct lipoxygenases (LOX). Among these, LOXN2 showed eight exons encoding a 93.7-kD enzyme, harboring two C-terminal deletions and an unusual arginine/threonine-tyrosine motif in the domain considered to control the substrate specificity. LOXN2, when overexpressed in yeast, exhibited normal enzyme activity with an optimum at pH 4.5, and a dual positional specificity by releasing a 3:1 ratio of C-9 and C-13 oxidized products. The predicted LOXN2 structure lacked a loop present in soybean (Glycine max) LOX1, in a position consistent with control of the degree of substrate access to the catalytic site and for LOXN2's dual positional specificity. The LOXN2 gene was tightly conserved in the Progress 9 and MG103738 genotypes, respectively, susceptible and resistant to the root cyst nematode Heterodera goettingiana. LOXN2 transcription was monitored in roots after mechanical injury and during nematode infection. The message peaked at 3 and 24 h after wounding in both genotypes and was more abundant in the resistant than in the susceptible pea. In nematode-infected roots, transcription of several LOX genes was triggered except LOXN2, which was repressed in both genotypes. In situ hybridization revealed that LOXN2 message was widespread in the cortex and endodermis of healthy roots, but specifically localized at high level in the cells bordering the nematode-induced syncytia of infected roots. However, LOXN2 transcript signal was particularly intense in collapsing syncytia of MG103738 roots, suggesting LOXN2 involvement in late mechanisms of host resistance.
An antifungal protein with a molecular mass of 11 kDa and a lysine-rich N-terminal sequence was isolated from the seeds of the pea Pisum sativum var. arvense Poir. The antifungal protein was unadsorbed on DEAE-cellulose but adsorbed on Affi-gel blue gel and CM-cellulose. It exerted antifungal activity against Physalospora piricola with an IC50 of 0.62 microM, and also antifungal activity against Fusarium oxysporum and Mycosphaerella arachidicola. It inhibited human immunodeficiency virus type 1 reverse transcriptase with an IC50 of 4.7 microM.
Rhizobium bacteria produce different surface polysaccharides which are either secreted in the growth medium or contribute to a capsule surrounding the cell. Here, we describe isolation and partial characterization of a novel high molecular weight surface polysaccharide from a strain of Rhizobium leguminosarum that nodulates Pisum sativum (pea) and Vicia sativa (vetch) roots. Carbohydrate analysis showed that the polysaccharide consists for 95% of mannose and glucose, with minor amounts of galactose and rhamnose. Lectin precipitation analysis revealed high binding affinity of pea and vetch lectin for this polysaccharide, in contrast to the other known capsular and extracellular polysaccharides of this strain. Expression of the polysaccharide was independent of the presence of a Sym plasmid or the nod gene inducer naringenin. Incubation of R. leguminosarum with labelled pea lectin showed that this polysaccharide is exclusively localized on one of the poles of the bacterial cell. Vetch roots incubated with rhizobia and labelled pea lectin revealed that this bacterial pole is involved in attachment to the root surface. A mutant strain deficient in the production of this polysaccharide was impaired in attachment and root hair infection under slightly acidic conditions, in contrast to the situation at slightly alkaline conditions. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that rhizobia can use (at least) two mechanisms for docking at the root surface, with use of a lectin-glycan mechanism under slightly acidic conditions.
Aphids are the leading pests in agricultural crops. A large-scale sequencing of 40,904 ESTs from the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum was carried out to define a catalog of 12,082 unique transcripts. A strong AT bias was found, indicating a compositional shift between Drosophila melanogaster and A. pisum. An in silico profiling analysis characterized 135 transcripts specific to pea-aphid tissues (relating to bacteriocytes and parthenogenetic embryos). This project is the first to address the genetics of the Hemiptera and of a hemimetabolous insect.
Cryptochromes are blue/ultraviolet-A light sensing photoreceptors involved in regulating various growth and developmental responses in plants. Investigations on the structure and functions of cryptochromes in plants have been largely confined to Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum), and pea (Pisum sativum). We report here the characterization of the cryptochrome 1 gene from Brassica napus (BnCRY1), an oilseed crop, and its functional validation in transgenics. The predicted BnCRY1 protein sequence shows a high degree of sequence identity (94%) to Arabidopsis CRY1. A semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and the western-blot analysis revealed that blue light up-regulates its transcript and protein levels in young seedlings. The BnCRY1 promoter harbors conventional light-responsive cis-acting elements, which presumably impart light activation to the GUS (beta-glucuronidase) reporter gene expressed in Arabidopsis. Although the BnCRY1 transcript could be detected in all the tissues examined, its protein was virtually undetectable in mature leaves and the root, indicating a tissue-specific translational control or protein turnover. The antisense-BnCRY1 Brassica transgenic seedlings accumulated negligible levels of CRY1 protein and displayed an elongated hypocotyl when grown under continuous white or blue light (but not under red or far-red light); the accumulation of anthocyanins was also reduced significantly. The adult transformants were also found to be tall when grown under natural light environment in a containment facility without any artificial illumination. These data provide functional evidence for a role of blue light up-regulated cry1 in controlling photomorphogenesis in Brassica species.
HYDROPEROXIDE LYASE (HPL) genes encode enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of fatty acid hydroperoxides into aldehydes and oxoacids. There are three HPLs in rice (Oryza sativa), designated OsHPL1 through OsHPL3. To explore the possibility of differential functional activities among these genes, we have examined their expression patterns and biochemical properties of their encoded products. Transcript analysis indicates that these genes have distinct patterns and levels of expression. OsHPL1 is ubiquitously expressed, OsHPL2 is expressed in the leaves and leaf sheaths, whereas OsHPL3 is wound inducible and expressed exclusively in leaves. OsHPLs also differ in their substrate preference as determined by in vitro enzyme assays using 9-/13-hydroperoxy linolenic and 9-/13-hydroperoxy linoleic acids as substrates. OsHPL1 and OsHPL2 metabolize 9-/13-hydroperoxides, whereas OsHPL3 metabolizes 13-hydroperoxy linolenic acid exclusively. Sequence alignments of the HPL enzymes have identified signature residues potentially responsible for the substrate specificity/preference of these enzymes. All three OsHPLs are chloroplast localized as determined by chloroplast import assays and green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion studies. Aldehyde measurements in transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants overexpressing individual OsHPL-GFP fusions indicate that all rice HPLs are functional in a heterologous system, and each of them generates a distinct signature of the metabolites. Interestingly, these aldehydes were only detectable in leaves, but not in roots, despite similar levels of OsHPL-GFP proteins in both tissues. Similarly, there were undetectable levels of aldehydes in rice roots, in spite of the presence of OsHPL1 transcripts. Together, these data suggest that additional tissue-specific mechanism(s) beyond transcript and HPL enzyme abundance, regulate the levels of HPL-derived metabolites.
In intact plants, the shoot apex grows predominantly and inhibits outgrowth of axillary buds. After decapitation of the shoot apex, outgrowth of axillary buds begins. This phenomenon is called an apical dominance. Although the involvement of auxin, which represses outgrowth of axillary buds, and cytokinin (CK), which promotes outgrowth of axillary buds, has been proposed, little is known about the underlying molecular mechanisms. In the present study, we demonstrated that auxin negatively regulates local CK biosynthesis in the nodal stem by controlling the expression level of the pea (Pisum sativum L.) gene adenosine phosphate-isopentenyltransferase (PsIPT), which encodes a key enzyme in CK biosynthesis. Before decapitation, PsIPT1 and PsIPT2 transcripts were undetectable; after decapitation, they were markedly induced in the nodal stem along with accumulation of CK. Expression of PsIPT was repressed by the application of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). In excised nodal stem, PsIPT expression and CK levels also increased under IAA-free conditions. Furthermore, beta-glucuronidase expression, under the control of the PsIPT2 promoter region in transgenic Arabidopsis, was repressed by an IAA. Our results indicate that in apical dominance one role of auxin is to repress local biosynthesis of CK in the nodal stem and that, after decapitation, CKs, which are thought to be derived from the roots, are locally biosynthesized in the nodal stem rather than in the roots.
The studies on calcium sensor calcineurin B-like protein (CBL) and CBL interacting protein kinases (CIPK) are limited to Arabidopsis and rice and their functional role is only beginning to emerge. Here, we present cloning and characterization of a protein kinase (PsCIPK) from a legume, pea, with novel properties. The PsCIPK gene is intronless and encodes a protein that showed partial homology to the members of CIPK family. The recombinant PsCIPK protein was autophosphorylated at Thr residue(s). Immunoprecipitation and yeast two-hybrid analysis showed direct interaction of PsCIPK with PsCBL, whose cDNA and genomic DNA were also cloned in this study. PsCBL showed homology to AtCBL3 and contained calcium-binding activity. We demonstrate for the first time that PsCBL is phosphorylated at its Thr residue(s) by PsCIPK. Immunofluorescence/confocal microscopy showed that PsCBL is exclusively localized in the cytosol, whereas PsCIPK is localized in the cytosol and the outer membrane. The exposure of plants to NaCl, cold and wounding co-ordinately upregulated the expression of PsCBL and PsCIPK genes. The transcript levels of both genes were also coordinately stimulated in response to calcium and salicylic acid. However, drought and abscisic acid had no effect on the expression of these genes. These studies show the ubiquitous presence of CBL/CIPK in higher plants and enhance our understanding of their role in abiotic and biotic stress signalling.
A sensitive in vitro editing assay for the pea chloroplast petB editing site has been developed and utilized to study the mechanism of C-to-U editing in chloroplast extracts. The in vitro editing assay was characterized by several criteria including: linearity with extract amount; linearity over time; dependence on assay components; and specificity of editing site conversion. The increase in the extent C-to-U conversion of the petB editing site was nearly linear with the amount chloroplast protein extract added, although the reaction appeared to decline in rate after approximately 30 min. The assay was tested for the importance of various assay components, and the omission of protease inhibitor and ATP was shown to dramatically reduce the extent of the editing reaction. Sequence analysis of cDNA clones obtained after an in vitro editing reaction demonstrated that 12 of 17 (71%) clones were edited, and that no other nucleotide changes in these cDNAs were detected. Thus, the fidelity and specificity of the in vitro editing system appears to be excellent, and this system should be suitable to study both mechanism of the editing reaction and editing site selection. The in vitro editing reaction was strongly stimulated by the addition of ATP, and all four NTPs and dNTPs stimulated the editing reaction except for rGTP, which had no effect. Thus, the nucleotide specificity of the editing reaction is broad, and is similar in this respect to the mitochondrial editing system. Most enzyme or processes specifically utilize ATP or GTP for phosphorylation and the ability to substitute other NTPs and dNTPs is unusual. RNA helicases have a similar broad nucleotide specificity and this may reflect the involvement of an RNA helicase in plant organelle editing.
A technique was optimized for the in situ detection of nodulation (nod) gene activity in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae symbiosis with compatible plant hosts Vicia tetrasperma (L.) SCHREB. and Pisum sativum L. The transcription of nodABC-lacZ fusion was visualized as beta-galactosidase (beta-Gal) activity after reaction with the chromogenic substrate X-Gal and subsequent light microscopy, while the background of the indigenous beta-Gal activity of rhizobia and the host plant was eliminated by glutaraldehyde treatment. V. tetrasperma was suggested as a suitable model plant for pea cross-inoculation group due to its advantages over the common model of V. hirsuta (L.) S.F. GRAY: compactness of the plant, extremely small seeds, fast development and stable nodulation under laboratory conditions. In the roots of both plants, a certain extent of nod gene activity was detectable in all rhizobia colonizing the rhizoplane. In pea 1 d after inoculation (d.a.i.), the maximum was localized in the region of emerging root hairs (RH) later (3 and 6 d.a.i.) shifting upwards from the root tip. Nodulation genes sustained full expression even in the infection threads inside the RH and the root cortex, independently of their association with nodule primordia. Comparison of two pea symbiotic mutant lines, Risnod25 and Risnod27, with the wild type did not reveal any differences in the RH formation, RH curling response and rhizoplane colonization. Both mutants appeared to be blocked at the infection thread initiation stage and in nodule initiation, consistent with the phenotype caused by other mutant alleles in the pea sym8 locus. Judging from the nod gene expression level and pattern in the rhizoplane, flavonoid response upon inoculation is preserved in both pea mutants, being independent of infection thread and nodule initiation.
The classic role of SUCROSE NONFERMENTING-1 (Snf1)-like kinases in eukaryotes is to adapt metabolism to environmental conditions such as nutrition, energy, and stress. During pea (Pisum sativum) seed maturation, developmental programs of growing embryos are adjusted to changing physiological and metabolic conditions. To understand regulation of the switch from cell proliferation to differentiation, SUCROSE NONFERMENTING-1-RELATED PROTEIN KINASE (SnRK1) was antisense repressed in pea seeds. Transgenic seeds show maturation defects, reduced conversion of sucrose into storage products, lower globulin content, frequently altered cotyledon surface, shape, and symmetry, as well as occasional precocious germination. Gene expression analysis of embryos using macroarrays of 5,548 seed-specific genes revealed 183 differentially expressed genes in two clusters, either delayed down-regulated or delayed up-regulated during transition. Delayed down-regulated genes are related to mitotic activity, gibberellic acid/brassinosteroid synthesis, stress response, and Ca2+ signal transduction. This specifies a developmentally younger status and conditional stress. Higher gene expression related to respiration/gluconeogenesis/fermentation is consistent with a role of SnRK1 in repressing energy-consuming processes in maturing cotyledons under low oxygen/energy availability. Delayed up-regulated genes are mainly related to storage protein synthesis and stress tolerance. Most of the phenotype resembles abscisic acid (ABA) insensitivity and may be explained by reduced Abi-3 expression. This may cause a reduction in ABA functions and/or a disconnection between metabolic and ABA signals, suggesting that SnRK1 is a mediator of ABA functions during pea seed maturation. SnRK1 repression also impairs gene expression associated with differentiation, independent from ABA functions, like regulation and signaling of developmental events, chromatin reorganization, cell wall synthesis, biosynthetic activity of plastids, and regulated proteolysis.
A novel glycine-rich protein gene, PsGRP1, has been identified in Pisum sativum L. Accumulation of PsGRP1 transcripts was observed in reproductive organs and vegetative tissues. They were localized in endocarp sclerenchyma during fruit development in cells that will lignify. PsGRP1 expression was also detected in senescent pistils and developing seeds and induced by ABA treatment in presenescent pistils. A raise in the expression was also observed in roots after treatment with ABA or mannitol but not under cold stress. A mannitol treatment induced a rise in ABA levels and fluridone treatment counteracted the mannitol induction of PsGRP1 expression. The results suggest a possible role for PsGRP1 in differentiation of the endocarp sclerenchyma and during seed development, pistil senescence and osmotic stress under ABA control.
The enterobacterium Erwinia amylovora is a devastating plant pathogen causing necrotrophic fire blight disease of apple, pear, and other rosaceous plants. In this study, we used a modified in vivo expression technology system to identify E. amylovora genes that are activated during infection of immature pear tissue, a process that requires the major pathogenicity factors of this organism. We identified 394 unique pear fruit-induced (pfi) genes on the basis of sequence similarity to known genes and separated them into nine putative function groups including host-microbe interactions (3.8%), stress response (5.3%), regulation (11.9%), cell surface (8.9%), transport (13.5%), mobile elements (1.0%), metabolism (20.3%), nutrient acquisition and synthesis (15.5%), and unknown or hypothetical proteins (19.8%). Known virulence genes, including hrp/hrc components of the type III secretion system, the major effector gene dspE, type II secretion, levansucrase (lsc), and regulators of levansucrase and amylovoran biosynthesis, were upregulated during pear tissue infection. Known virulence factors previously identified in E. (Pectobacterium) carotovora and Pseudomonas syringae were identified for the first time in E. amylovora and included HecA hemagglutinin family adhesion, Peh polygalacturonase, new effector HopPtoC(EA), and membrane-bound lytic murein transglycosylase MltE(EA). An insertional mutation within hopPtoC(EA) did not result in reduced virulence; however, an mltE(EA) knockout mutant was reduced in virulence and growth in immature pears. This study suggests that E. amylovora utilizes a variety of strategies during plant infection and to overcome the stressful and poor nutritional environment of its plant hosts.
We describe the use of a non-viral, polyethylenimine-based vector to transfect rat hepatocytes preserved under hypothermic storage. DNA sequences encoding Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase and pea ferredoxin-NADP(H) oxidoreductase (FNR), cloned into plasmids pCH110 and pKM4 respectively, were used. FNR was detected in the liver of animals transplanted with transfected cells; no reactivity was observed in endogenous parenchyma. The expression of the transgene was transient as it was detectable up to 96 h subsequently declining to undetectable levels. In contrast to non-transfected cells, the engraftment of FNR-positive cells was not associated with inflammatory reaction. The percentage of FNR-positive implanted hepatocytes was at least five times higher than the original transfection efficiency measured in vitro, while the percentage of beta-galactosidase-positive cells was similar for both methods. These data indicate that the transfection system is effective in the transfer of plasmid DNA into hepatocytes under cold preservation and suggest the advantage of pKM4-transfected hepatocytes on engraftment in the recipient parenchyma.
The development of modern gene technologies allows for the expression of recombinant proteins in non-native hosts. Diversity in translational and post-translational modification pathways between species could potentially lead to discrete changes in the molecular architecture of the expressed protein and subsequent cellular function and antigenicity. Here, we show that transgenic expression of a plant protein (alpha-amylase inhibitor-1 from the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L. cv. Tendergreen)) in a non-native host (transgenic pea (Pisum sativum L.)) led to the synthesis of a structurally modified form of this inhibitor. Employing models of inflammation, we demonstrated in mice that consumption of the modified alphaAI and not the native form predisposed to antigen-specific CD4+ Th2-type inflammation. Furthermore, consumption of the modified alphaAI concurrently with other heterogeneous proteins promoted immunological cross priming, which then elicited specific immunoreactivity of these proteins. Thus, transgenic expression of non-native proteins in plants may lead to the synthesis of structural variants possessing altered immunogenicity.
Analysis of levels of hydrogenase processing and activity in Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viciae bacteroids from pea (Pisum sativum) plants showed that the oxidation of nitrogenase-evolved hydrogen is limited by the availability of nickel in agricultural soils. This limitation was overcome by using an inoculant strain engineered for higher hydrogenase expression.
The fact that the psp54 gene codes for p16, a seed chromatin protein of Pisum sativum, has been described previously. In the present paper it is shown that p54, the p16 precursor, also exists as a free polypeptide in pea and that it also yields p38, a second polypeptide from the N-terminal region of p54, which is co-localized at a subcellular level with p16. By using antibodies against pea p16 and p38, it was found that these proteins are present in the members of the tribe Viciae examined. Sequence analysis and 3D modelling indicates that p54 proteins belong to the cupin superfamily, and that they are related to sucrose binding proteins and, to a lesser extent, to vicilin-type seed storage proteins. Nevertheless, several distinctive characteristics of psp54 expression have been found: (i) the gene is differentially induced by ABA and several stress situations, in accordance with the presence of putative separate ABA and stress responsive elements in its promoter; (ii) the proteins are present in pods and seed coats, tissues of maternal origin; and (iii) p54 mRNA accumulates in the dry seeds. In view of both the functional properties of p54-derived proteins and the features of the psp54 gene expression, it is concluded that p54 represents a novel class within the cupin superfamily.
Pea (Pisum sativum L.) cotyledons, overexpressing a potato sucrose transporter (StSUT1), were used to explore the hypothesis that sucrose stimulates the onset of storage protein biosynthesis. The study focused on the transition between pre-storage and storage phases of seed development. During this period supply of sucrose and hexose to transgenic cotyledons was unaffected by StSUT1 expression. However, protoplasmic levels of sucrose but not hexoses were elevated in transgenic cotyledons. Total protein levels in cotyledons followed the same temporal trend as observed for sucrose and this was reflected in an earlier appearance of protein bodies. Protein levels in wild type and StSUT1 cotyledons were found to lie on the same sucrose dose-response curve and this could be reproduced in vitro when wild type cotyledons were cultured on media containing various sucrose concentrations. Rates of [
The cryptochromes are a family of blue light photoreceptors that play important roles in the control of plant development. We have characterised the cryptochrome gene family in the model legume garden pea (Pisum sativum L.). Pea contains three expressed cryptochrome genes; a single CRY1 orthologue, and two distinct CRY2 genes that we have termed CRY2a and CRY2b. Genomic southern blots indicate that there are unlikely to be more CRY genes in pea. Each of the three genes encodes a full-length CRY protein that contains all the major domains characteristic of other higher plant cryptochromes. Database searches have identified Medicago truncatula expressed sequence tags (ESTs) corresponding to all three genes, whereas only a single CRY2 is represented in EST collections from the more distantly related legumes soybean and Lotus japonicus. The proteins encoded by the pea and Medicago CRY2b genes are distinguished from other CRY2 proteins by their shorter C-terminus. Expression analyses have identified marked differences in the regulation of the three genes, with CRY2b expression in particular distinguished by high-amplitude diurnal cycling and rapid repression in seedlings transferred from darkness to blue light.
Cryptochromes are widespread in higher plants but their physiological roles as blue-light photoreceptors have been examined in relatively few species. Screening in a phyA null mutant background has identified several blue-light response mutants in pea (Pisum sativum), including one that carries a substitution of a highly conserved glycine residue in the N-terminal photolyase-homologous domain of the pea CRY1 gene. Analyses of cry1, phyA, and phyB mutants show that all three photoreceptors contribute to seedling photomorphogenesis under high-irradiance blue light, whereas phyA is the main photoreceptor active under low irradiances. Triple phyA phyB cry1 mutants grown under high-irradiance blue light are indistinguishable from dark-grown wild-type plants in length and leaf expansion but show a small residual response to higher-irradiance white light. Monogenic cry1 mutants have little discernable phenotype at the seedling stage, but later in development are more elongated than wild-type plants. In addition, the loss of cry1 moderates the short-internode phenotype of older phyA mutants, suggesting an antagonism between phyA and cry1 under some conditions. Pea cry1 has a small inhibitory effect on flowering under long and short days. However, the phyA cry1 double mutant retains a clear promotion of flowering in response to blue-light photoperiod extensions, indicating a role for one or more additional blue-light photoreceptors in the control of flowering in pea.
The purpose of this study was to identify the location of one of the two sources of carbonic anhydrase (CA) activity associated with the PSII complex in chloroplast membranes. We tested the hypothesis that the extrinsic 33 kDa protein, OEC33, associated with the oxygen-evolving complex (OEC), is one source of CA activity. We found that precursor OEC33 expressed in Escherichia coli exhibits CA activity, but the expressed precursors of OEC24 or OEC17 do not. The CA activity of OEC33 remained after treatment at 90 degrees C for 15 min. Additional biochemical evidence supports the hypothesis. Only those wash treatments that remove the OEC33 from PSII also remove CA activity. Both immunoblot and CA activity show that the CA tracks the OEC33, in parallel, when PSII undergoes washing at different CaCl2 concentrations. The OEC33 protein purified by HiTrap Q anion exchange chromatography has CA activity that is inhibited by an antibody against OEC33. PSII membranes washed with 1 M CaCl2 to remove OEC33 can be reconstituted either with extracted, purified, OEC33 or with the E. coli-expressed precursor OEC33. Reconstitution partially restores both oxygen evolution and CA activity. For maximal CA activity, OEC33 requires manganese as a cofactor.
Helicases are involved in the metabolism of nucleic acid; this is very sensitive to the abiotic stresses that reduce plant growth and productivity. However, the molecular targets responsible for this sensitivity have not been well studied. Here we report on the isolation and characterization of cold- and salinity stress-induced pea DNA helicase 47 (PDH47). The transcript of PDH47 was induced in both shoots and roots under cold (4 degrees C) and salinity (300 mm NaCl) stress, but there was no change in response to drought stress. Tissue-specific differential regulation was observed under heat (37 degrees C) stress. ABA treatment did not alter expression of PDH47 in shoots but induced its mRNA in roots, indicating a role for PDH47 in both the ABA-independent and ABA-dependent pathways in abiotic stress. The purified recombinant protein (47 kDa) contains ATP-dependent DNA and RNA helicase and DNA-dependent ATPase activities. With the help of photoaffinity labeling, PDH47 was labeled by [alpha-32P]-ATP. PDH47 is a unique bipolar helicase that contains both 3' to 5' and 5' to 3' directional helicase activities. Anti-PDH47 antibodies immunodeplete the activities of PDH47 and inhibit in vitro translation of protein. Furthermore, the PDH47 protein showed upregulation of protein synthesis. The activities of PDH47 are stimulated after phosphorylation by protein kinase C at Ser and Thr residues. Western blot analysis and in vivo immunostaining, followed by confocal microscopy, showed PDH47 to be localized in both the nucleus and cytosol. The discovery of cold- and salinity stress-induced DNA helicase should make an important contribution to a better understanding of DNA metabolism and stress signaling in plants. Its bipolar helicase activities may also be involved in distinct cellular processes in stressed conditions.
Brassica napus complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) clones encoding a DNA-binding protein, BnPEND, were isolated by Southwestern screening. A distinctive feature of the protein was a bZIP-like sequence in the amino-terminal portion, which, after expression in Escherichia coli, bound DNA. BnPEND transcripts were present in B. napus roots and flower buds, and to a lesser extent in stems, flowers and young leaves. Treatment in the dark for 72 h markedly increased the amount of BnPEND transcript in leaves of all ages. Sequence comparison showed that BnPEND was similar to a presumed transcription factor from B. napus, GSBF1, a protein deduced from an Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA (BX825084) and the PEND protein from Pisum sativum, believed to anchor the plastid DNA to the envelope early during plastid development. Homology to expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences from additional species suggested that BnPEND homologues are widespread among the angiosperms. Transient expression of BnPEND fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) in Nicotiana benthamiana epidermal cells showed that BnPEND is a plastid protein, and that the 15 amino acids at the amino-terminal contain information about plastid targeting. Expression of BnPEND in Nicotiana tabacum from the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35S promoter gave stable transformants with different extents of white to light-green areas in the leaves, and even albino plants. In the white areas, but not in adjacent green tissue, the development of palisade cells and chloroplasts was disrupted. Our data demonstrate that the BnPEND protein, when over-expressed at an inappropriate stage, functionally blocks the development of plastids and leads to altered leaf anatomy, possibly by preventing the release of plastid DNA from the envelope.
Cyanobacterial and plant genomes encode proteins with some similarity to the folate and biopterin transporters of the trypanosomatid parasite Leishmania. The Synechocystis slr0642 gene product and its closest Arabidopsis homolog, the At2g32040 gene product, are representative examples. Both have 12 probable transmembrane domains, and the At2g32040 protein has a predicted chloroplast transit peptide. When expressed in Escherichia coli pabA pabB or folE, mutants, which are unable to produce or take up folates, the slr0642 protein and a modified At2g32040 protein (truncated and fused to the N terminus of slr0642) enabled growth on 5-formyltetrahydrofolate or folic acid but not on 5-formyltetrahydrofolate triglutamate, demonstrating that both proteins mediate folate monoglutamate transport. Both proteins also mediate transport of the antifolate analogs methotrexate and aminopterin, as evidenced by their ability to greatly increase the sensitivity of E. coli to these inhibitors. The full-length At2g32040 polypeptide was translocated into isolated pea chloroplasts and, when fused to green fluorescent protein, directed the passenger protein to the envelope of Arabidopsis chloroplasts in transient expression experiments. At2g32040 transcripts were present at similar levels in roots and aerial organs, indicating that the protein occurs in non-green plastids as well as chloroplasts. Insertional inactivation of At2g32040 significantly raised the total folate content of chloroplasts and lowered the proportion of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate but did not discernibly affect growth. These findings establish conservation of function among folate and biopterin transporter family proteins from three kingdoms of life.
Molecular responses to cadmium (Cd) stress were studied in mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal Pisum sativum L. cv. Frisson inoculated with Glomus intraradices. Biomass decreases caused by the heavy metal were significantly less in mycorrhizal than in non-mycorrhizal plants. Real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction showed that genes implicated in pathways of Cd detoxification varied in response to mycorrhiza development or Cd application. Expression of a metallothionein-encoding gene increased strongly in roots of Cd-treated non-mycorrhizal plants. Genes encoding gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase and glutathione (GSH) synthetase, responsible for the synthesis of the phytochelatin (PC) precursor GSH, were activated by Cd in mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal plants. Cd stress decreased accumulation of GSH/homoglutathione (hGSH) and increased thiol groups in pea roots, whether mycorrhizal or not, suggesting synthesis of PCs and/or homophytochelatins. An hGSH synthetase gene, involved in hGSH synthesis, did not respond to Cd alone but was activated by mycorrhizal development in the presence of Cd. Transcript levels of a glutathione reductase gene were only increased in non-mycorrhizal roots treated with Cd. Studies of three stress-related genes showed that a heat-shock protein gene was activated in mycorrhizal roots or by Cd and chitinase gene transcripts increased under Cd stress to a greater extent in mycorrhizal roots, whilst a chalcone isomerase gene was only up-regulated by Cd. Results indicate that although heavy metal chelation pathways contribute to Cd stress responses in pea, they may not make a major contribution to Cd tolerance strategies operating in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis.
The early steps in the gibberellin (GA) biosynthetic pathway are controlled by single copy genes or small gene families. In pea (Pisum sativum L.) there are two ent-kaurenoic acid oxidases, one expressed only in the seeds, while ent-copalyl synthesis and ent-kaurene oxidation appear to be controlled by single copy genes. None of these genes appear to show feedback regulation and the only major developmental regulation appears to be during seed development. During shoot maturation, transcript levels do not change markedly with the result that all the three genes examined are expressed in mature tissue, supporting recent findings that these tissues can synthesise GAs. It therefore appears that the regulation of bioactive GA levels are determined by the enzymes encoded by the 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase gene families controlling the later steps in GA biosynthesis. However the early steps are nonetheless important as a clear log/linear relationship exists between elongation and the level of GA1 in a range of single and double mutants in genes controlling these steps.
Current understanding of floral development is mainly based on what we know from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and Antirrhinum majus. However, we can learn more by comparing developmental mechanisms that may explain morphological differences between species. A good example comes from the analysis of genes controlling flower development in pea (Pisum sativum), a plant with more complex leaves and inflorescences than Arabidopsis and Antirrhinum, and a different floral ontogeny. The analysis of UNIFOLIATA (UNI) and STAMINA PISTILLOIDA (STP), the pea orthologs of LEAFY and UNUSUAL FLORAL ORGANS, has revealed a common link in the regulation of flower and leaf development not apparent in Arabidopsis. While the Arabidopsis genes mainly behave as key regulators of flower development, where they control the expression of B-function genes, UNI and STP also contribute to the development of the pea compound leaf. Here, we describe the characterization of P. sativum PISTILLATA (PsPI), a pea MADS-box gene homologous to B-function genes like PI and GLOBOSA (GLO), from Arabidopsis and Antirrhinum, respectively. PsPI encodes for an atypical PI-type polypeptide that lacks the highly conserved C-terminal PI motif. Nevertheless, constitutive expression of PsPI in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and Arabidopsis shows that it can specifically replace the function of PI, being able to complement the strong pi-1 mutant. Accordingly, PsPI expression in pea flowers, which is dependent on STP, is identical to PI and GLO. Interestingly, PsPI is also transiently expressed in young leaves, suggesting a role of PsPI in pea leaf development, a possibility that fits with the established role of UNI and STP in the control of this process.
Expression of the pea plastocyanin gene (PetE) is regulated by light and plastid signals. Previous work indicated that light and plastid regulation of pea PetE operates post-transcriptionally in transgenic tobacco, and requires the correct 5' terminus of the PetE transcript and the PetE-coding region. The post-transcriptional light and plastid regulation of pea PetE has now been demonstrated to operate in transgenic Arabidopsis, where in contrast the endogenous PETE gene is regulated transcriptionally. Transgenic tobacco seedlings containing constructs with progressive 3' deletions of the PetE-coding region fused to the luciferase (Luc) reporter gene demonstrate that the first 60 nucleotides of the coding region are sufficient for regulated accumulation of Luc transcripts by light and plastid signalling pathways affected by treatment with norflurazon and lincomycin. PetE constructs containing premature stop codons were generated to investigate whether translation has a role in light or plastid regulation. Insertion of a stop codon in place of the second codon of the PetE-coding region diminished both light and plastid regulation of PetE transcripts, whereas stop codons inserted later in the transcript had no effect on light or plastid regulation. These experiments indicate that the 5' end of the plastocyanin-coding region contains sequences important for regulation by light and plastid signals.
The initiation and development of legume nodules induced by compatible Rhizobium species requires a complex signal exchange involving both plant and bacterial compounds. Phytohormones have been implicated in this process, although in many cases direct evidence is lacking. Here, we characterize the root and nodulation phenotypes of various mutant lines of pea (Pisum sativum) that display alterations in their phytohormone levels and/or perception. Mutants possessing root systems deficient in gibberellins (GAs) or brassinosteroids (BRs) exhibited a reduction in nodule organogenesis. The question of whether these reductions represent direct or indirect effects of the hormone deficiency is addressed. For example, the application of GA to the roots of a GA-deficient mutant completely restored its number of nodules to that of the wild type. Grafting studies revealed that a wild-type shoot or root also restored the nodule number of a GA-deficient mutant. These findings suggest that GAs are required for nodulation. In contrast, the shoot controlled the number of nodules that formed in graft combinations of a BR-deficient mutant and its wild type. The root levels of auxin and GA were similar among these latter graft combinations. These results suggest that BRs influence a shoot mechanism that controls nodulation and that the root levels of auxin and GA are not part of this process. Interestingly, a strong correlation between nodule and lateral root numbers was observed in all lines assessed, consistent with a possible overlap in the early developmental pathways of the two organs.
The physiological basis of thermoperiodic stem elongation is as yet poorly understood. Thermoperiodic control of gibberellin (GA) metabolism has been suggested as an underlying mechanism. We have investigated the influence of different day and night temperature combinations on GA levels, and diurnal steady-state expression of genes involved in GA biosynthesis (LS, LH, NA, PSGA20ox1, and PsGA3ox1) and GA deactivation (PsGA2ox1 and PsGA2ox2), and related this to diurnal stem elongation in pea (Pisum sativum L. cv Torsdag). The plants were grown under a 12-h light period with an average temperature of 17 degrees C. A day temperature/night temperature combination of 13 degrees C/21 degrees C reduced stem elongation after 12 d by 30% as compared to 21 degrees C/13 degrees C. This was correlated with a 55% reduction of GA1. Although plant height correlated with GA1 content, there was no correlation between diurnal growth rhythms and GA1 content. NA, PsGA20ox1, and PsGA2ox2 showed diurnal rhythms of expression. PsGA2ox2 was up-regulated in 13 degrees C/21 degrees C (compared to 21 degrees C/13 degrees C), at certain time points, by up to 19-fold. Relative to PsGA2ox2, the expression of LS, LH, NA, PSGA20ox1, PsGA3ox1, and PsGA2ox1 was not or only slightly affected by the different temperature treatments. The sln mutant having a nonfunctional PsGA2ox1 gene product showed the same relative stem elongation response to temperature as the wild type. This supports the importance of PsGA2ox2 in mediating thermoperiodic stem elongation responses in pea. We present evidence for an important role of GA catabolism in thermoperiodic effect on stem elongation and conclude that PsGA2ox2 is the main mediator of this effect in pea.
In plant cells, ascorbate is a major antioxidant that is involved in the ascorbate-glutathione cycle. Monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDAR) is the enzymatic component of this cycle involved in the regeneration of reduced ascorbate. The identification of the intron-exon organization and the promoter region of the pea (Pisum sativum) MDAR 1 gene was achieved in pea leaves using the method of walking polymerase chain reaction on genomic DNA. The nuclear gene of MDAR 1 comprises nine exons and eight introns, giving a total length of 3,770 bp. The sequence of 544 bp upstream of the initiation codon, which contains the promoter and 5' untranslated region, and 190 bp downstream of the stop codon were also determined. The presence of different regulatory motifs in the promoter region of the gene might indicate distinct responses to various conditions. The expression analysis in different plant organs by northern blots showed that fruits had the highest level of MDAR. Confocal laser scanning microscopy analysis of pea leaves transformed with Agrobacterium tumefaciens having the binary vectors pGD, which contain the autofluorescent proteins enhanced green fluorescent protein and enhanced yellow fluorescent protein with the full-length cDNA for MDAR 1 and catalase, indicated that the MDAR 1 encoded the peroxisomal isoform. The functional analysis of MDAR by activity and protein expression was studied in pea plants grown under eight stress conditions, including continuous light, high light intensity, continuous dark, mechanical wounding, low and high temperature, cadmium, and the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. This functional analysis is representative of all the MDAR isoforms present in the different cell compartments. Results obtained showed a significant induction by high light intensity and cadmium. On the other hand, expression studies, performed by semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction demonstrated differential expression patterns of peroxisomal MDAR 1 transcripts in pea plants grown under the mentioned stress conditions. These findings show that the peroxisomal MDAR 1 has a differential regulation that could be indicative of its specific function in peroxisomes. All these biochemical and molecular data represent a significant step to understand the specific physiological role of each MDAR isoenzyme and its participation in the antioxidant mechanisms of plant cells.
FtsH is an ATP-dependent metalloprotease found in bacteria, mitochondria, and plastids. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains 12 AtFtsH proteins, three in the mitochondrion and nine in the chloroplast. Four of the chloroplast FtsH proteins are encoded by paired members of closely related genes (AtFtsH1 and 5, and AtFtsH2 and 8). We have previously reported that AtFtsH2 and 8 are interchangeable components of AtFtsH complexes in the thylakoid membrane. In this article, we show that the var1 variegation mutant, which is defective in AtFtsH5, has a coordinate reduction in the AtFtsH2 and 8 pair, and that the levels of both pairs are restored to normal in var1 plants that overexpress AtFtsH1. Overexpression of AtFtsH1, but not AtFtsH2/VAR2, normalizes the pattern of var1 variegation, restoring a nonvariegated phenotype. We conclude that AtFtsH proteins within a pair, but not between pairs, are interchangeable and functionally redundant, at least in part. We further propose that the abundance of each pair is matched with that of the other pair, with excess subunits being turned over. The variegation phenotype of var1 (as well as var2, which is defective in AtFtsH2) suggests that a threshold concentration of subunits is required for normal chloroplast function. AtFtsH1, 2, 5, and 8 do not show evidence of tissue or developmental specific expression. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that rice (Oryza sativa) and Arabidopsis share a conserved core of seven FtsH subunit genes, including the AtFtsH1 and 5 and AtFtsH2 and 8 pairs, and that the structure of the present-day gene families can be explained by duplication events in each species following the monocot/dicot divergence.
The seed consists of several layers of specialized cell-types that divide and differentiate following a highly regulated programme in time and space. A cytological approach was undertaken in order to study the histo-differentiation at mid-embryogenesis in Medicago truncatula as a model legume, and in Pisum sativum using serial sections of embedded immature seed. Little published information is available about seed development in Medicago species. The observations from this study revealed a number of distinctive features of Medicago seed development and differentiation. Transfer cells, involved in nutrient transfer to the embryo, were clearly identified in the thin-walled parenchyma of the innermost integument. Histological Schiff-naphthol enabled carbohydrate accumulation to be followed in the different seed compartments, and revealed the storage protein bodies. Non-radioactive mRNA in situ hybridization, was carried out using mRNA probes from two highly expressed genes encoding the major vicilin and legumin A storage protein types. The timing of mRNA expression was related to that of the corresponding proteins already identified.
Experiments on the effect of genotypic environment on the expression of the nod4 gene, responsible for supernodulation in pea, were performed. The genotypic background was found to affect the manifestation of both major symbiosis-related traits (number of nitrogen-fixing bacterial nodules and nitrogenase activity) and productivity-related traits (stem height, seed number, and seed weight), which form the pleiotropic complex of the mutant gene. Using recurrent selection, we developed supernodulating lines significantly exceeding the original mutant line and studied them up to generations F5-F6. Of special importance is the fact that these lines showed high levels of nodulation and nitrogen fixation. The results are discussed from the viewpoint of breeding.
Rhizobial bacteria enter a symbiotic interaction with legumes, activating diverse responses in roots through the lipochito oligosaccharide signaling molecule Nod factor. Here, we show that NSP2 from Medicago truncatula encodes a GRAS protein essential for Nod-factor signaling. NSP2 functions downstream of Nod-factor-induced calcium spiking and a calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase. We show that NSP2-GFP expressed from a constitutive promoter is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum/nuclear envelope and relocalizes to the nucleus after Nod-factor elicitation. This work provides evidence that a GRAS protein transduces calcium signals in plants and provides a possible regulator of Nod-factor-inducible gene expression.
Toc75 (translocon at the outer envelope membrane of chloroplasts, 75 kD) is the protein translocation channel at the outer envelope membrane of plastids and was first identified in pea (Pisum sativum) using biochemical approaches. The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genome contains three Toc75-related sequences, termed atTOC75-I, atTOC75-III, and atTOC75-IV, which we studied using a range of molecular, genetic, and biochemical techniques. Expression of atTOC75-III is strongly regulated and at its highest level in young, rapidly expanding tissues. By contrast, atTOC75-IV is expressed uniformly throughout development and at a much lower level than atTOC75-III. The third sequence, atTOC75-I, is a pseudogene that is not expressed due to a gypsy/Ty3 transposon insertion in exon 1, and numerous nonsense, frame-shift, and splice-junction mutations. The expressed genes, atTOC75-III and atTOC75-IV, both encode integral envelope membrane proteins. Unlike atToc75-III, the smaller atToc75-IV protein is not processed upon targeting to the envelope, and its insertion does not require ATP at high concentrations. The atTOC75-III gene is essential for viability, since homozygous atToc75-III knockout mutants (termed toc75-III) could not be identified, and aborted seeds were observed at a frequency of approximately 25% in the siliques of self-pollinated toc75-III heterozygotes. Homozygous toc75-III embryos were found to abort at the two-cell stage. Homozygous atToc75-IV knockout plants (termed toc75-IV) displayed no obvious visible phenotypes. However, structural abnormalities were observed in the etioplasts of toc75-IV seedlings and atTOC75-IV overexpressing lines, and toc75-IV plants were less efficient at deetiolation than wild type. These results suggest some role for atToc75-IV during growth in the dark.
We investigated the role that manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), an important antioxidant enzyme, may play in the drought tolerance of rice. MnSOD from pea (Pisum sativum) under the control of an oxidative stress-inducible SWPA2 promoter was introduced into chloroplasts of rice (Oryza sativa) by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation to develop drought-tolerant rice plants. Functional expression of the pea MnSOD in transgenic rice plants (T1) was revealed under drought stress induced by polyethylene glycol (PEG) 6000. After PEG treatment the transgenic leaf slices showed reduced electrolyte leakage compared to wild type (WT) leaf slices, whether they were exposed to methyl viologen (MV) or not, suggesting that transgenic plants were more resistant to MV- or PEG-induced oxidative stress. Transgenic plants also exhibited less injury, measured by net photosynthetic rate, when treated with PEG. Our data suggest that SOD is a critical component of the ROS scavenging system in plant chloroplasts and that the expression of MnSOD can improve drought tolerance in rice.
The shikimate pathway is common to the biosynthesis of the three aromatic amino acids and that of various secondary metabolites in land plants. Shikimate kinase (SK; EC 2.7.1.71) catalyzes the phosphorylation of shikimate to yield shikimate 3-phosphate. In an attempt to elucidate the functional roles of enzymes that participate in the shikimate pathway in rice (Oryza sativa), we have now identified and characterized cDNAs corresponding to three SK genes--OsSK1, OsSK2, and OsSK3--in this monocotyledenous plant. These SK cDNAs encode proteins with different NH(2)-terminal regions and with putative mature regions that share sequence similarity with other plant and microbial SK proteins. An in vitro assay of protein import into intact chloroplasts isolated from pea (Pisum sativum) seedlings revealed that the full-length forms of the three rice SK proteins are translocated into chloroplasts and processed, consistent with the assumption that the different NH(2)-terminal sequences function as chloroplast transit peptides. The processed forms of all three rice proteins synthesized in vitro manifested SK catalytic activity. Northern blot analysis revealed that the expression of OsSK1 and OsSK2 was induced in rice calli by treatment with the elicitor N-acetylchitoheptaose, and that expression of OsSK1 and OsSK3 was up-regulated specifically during the heading stage of panicle development. These results suggest that differential expression of the three rice SK genes and the accompanying changes in the production of shikimate 3-phosphate may contribute to the defense response and to panicle development in rice.
Although abiotic stress affects plant growth and development, demonstration of its direct effect on regulation of the components of the DNA replication machinery is largely unknown. In this work, we demonstrate that the expression of TOP2 (encoding topoisomerase II) is up-regulated by various abiotic stresses including salinity and low temperature, and phytohormones such as ABA (abscisic acid) and SA (salicylic acid). Transgenic studies with different deletion versions of the TOP2 promoter in tobacco define several promoter determinants responsible for specific abiotic stress responsiveness. Taken together, these results demonstrate a direct involvement of stress in the transcriptional regulation of TOP2.
On STS-95 space experiment, etiolated pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Alaska) seedlings showed automorphosis and activities of auxin polar transport in epicotyls were substantially suppressed. These results together with the fact that inhibitors of auxin polar transport induced automorphosis-like growth and development strongly suggested that there are close relationships between automorphosis and auxin polar transport in etiolated pea seedlings. In order to know how gravistimuli control auxin polar transport at molecular levels, we isolated novel cDNAs of PsPIN2 and PsAUX1 encoding putative auxin efflux and influx carriers from etiolated pea seedlings. Significantly high levels in homology were found on nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences among PsPIN2, PsPIN1 (accession no. AY222857) and AtPINs, and between PsAUX1 and AtAUX1. Exogenously applied auxin substantially enhanced the expression of PsAUX1 and PsPIN2 as well as PsPIN1. Simulated microgravity conditions on a 3-dimensional clinostat remarkably increased gene expression of PsPIN1 and PsAUX1 in the hook and the 1st internode of pea epicotyls, while the increase of expression of PsPIN2 in both organs was not so much. These results suggest that PsPINs and PsAUX1 are auxin-inducible genes, and the expression of PsPINs and PsAUX1 is under the control of gravistimulation. A possible role of these genes in regulating auxin transport relevant to automorphosis of etiolated pea seedlings is also discussed.
Differential display was used to examine changes in gene expression that resulted from treatment of pea (Pisum sativum L.) with Bruchin B. This lipid-derived regulator, one of several closely related compounds collectively referred to as bruchins, is an insect elicitor that causes localized cell division and callus formation when applied to pods of pea and certain other legumes. A DNA fragment that was prominently displayed after bruchin treatment was cloned and sequenced, and a full-length cDNA was obtained. This cDNA exhibited a high degree of sequence similarity to a gene, MtN19, expressed in root nodules of Medicago truncatula Gaertn. MtN19 codes for a putative protein of unknown function that is similar in sequence to predicted proteins from a number of other plant species, both leguminous and non-leguminous. Quantitative real-time PCR showed that the expression of this MtN19-like gene was significantly up-regulated within 1.5 h of bruchin treatment, and increased more than 100-fold within 6 h of treatment. Given the rapid and strong up-regulation after exposure of pods to a bruchin, it is likely that this gene plays an important role in the response of pea to these insect elicitors.
Chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) seeds contain Bowman-Birk proteinase inhibitors, which are ineffective against the digestive proteinases of larvae of the insect pest Helicoverpa armigera. We have identified and purified a low expressing proteinase inhibitor (PI), distinct from the Bowman-Birk Inhibitors and active against H. armigera gut proteinases (HGP), from chickpea seeds. N-terminal sequencing of this HGP inhibitor revealed a sequence similar to reported pea (Pisum sativum) and chickpea alpha-l-fucosidases and also homologous to legume Kunitz inhibitors. The identity was confirmed by matrix assisted laser desorption ionization - time of flight analysis of tryptic peptides and isolation of DNA sequence coding for the mature protein. Available sequence data showed that this protein forms a distinct phylogenetic cluster with Kunitz inhibitors from Glycine max, Medicago truncatula, P. sativum and Canavalia lineata. The isolated coding sequence was cloned into a yeast expression vector and produced as a recombinant protein in Pichia pastoris. alpha-l-fucosidase activity was not detectable in purified or recombinant protein, by solution assays. The recombinant protein did not inhibit chymotrypsin or subtilisin activity but did exhibit stoichiometric inhibition of trypsin, comparable to soybean Kunitz trypsin inhibitor. The recombinant protein exhibited higher inhibition of total HGP activity as compared to soybean kunitz inhibitor, even though it preferentially inhibited HGP-trypsins. H. armigera larvae fed on inhibitor-incorporated artificial diet showed significant reduction in average larval weight after 18 days of feeding demonstrating potent antimetabolic activity. The over-expression of this gene in chickpea could act as an endogenous source of resistance to H. armigera.
Heterokont algae such as diatoms and the raphidophyte Heterosigma akashiwo and peridinin-containing dinoflagellates such as Heterocapsa triquetra originally acquired their chloroplasts via secondary endosymbiosis involving a red algal endosymbiont and a eukaryote host, resulting in 'complex' chloroplasts surrounded by four and three membranes, respectively. The precursors of both heterokont and dinoflagellate chloroplast-targeted proteins are first inserted into the ER with removal of an N-terminal signal peptide, but how they traverse the remaining membranes is unclear. Using a nuclear-encoded thylakoid lumen protein, PsbO, from the heterokont alga Heterosigma akashiwo, the dinoflagellate Heterocapsa triquetra and the red alga Porphyra yezoensis we show that precursors without the ER signal peptide can be imported into pea chloroplasts. In the case of the H. triquetra and Porphyra PsbO, the precursors were processed to their predicted mature size and localized within the thylakoid lumen, using the Sec-dependent pathway. We report for the first time a stromal processing peptidase (SPP) activity from an alga of the red lineage. The enzyme processes the Heterosigma PsbO precursor at a single site and appears to have different substrate and reaction specificities from the plant SPP. In spite of the fact that we could not find convincing homologs of the plant chloroplast import machinery in heterokont (diatom) and red algal genomes, it is clear that these three very different lines of algae use similar mechanisms to import chloroplast precursors.
Floral patterning in Papilionoideae plants, such as pea (Pisum sativum) and Medicago truncatula, is unique in terms of floral organ number, arrangement, and initiation timing as compared to other well-studied eudicots. To investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in the floral patterning in legumes, we have analyzed two mutants, proliferating floral meristem and proliferating floral organ-2 (pfo-2), obtained by ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenesis of Lotus japonicus. These two mutants showed similar phenotypes, with indeterminate floral structures and altered floral organ identities. We have demonstrated that loss of function of LjLFY and LjUFO/Pfo is likely to be responsible for these mutant phenotypes, respectively. To dissect the regulatory network controlling the floral patterning, we cloned homologs of the ABC function genes, which control floral organ identity in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). We found that some of the B and C function genes were duplicated. RNA in situ hybridization showed that the C function genes were expressed transiently in the carpel, continuously in stamens, and showed complementarity with the A function genes in the heterogeneous whorl. In proliferating floral meristem and pfo-2 mutants, all B function genes were down-regulated and the expression patterns of the A and C function genes were drastically altered. We conclude that LjLFY and LjUFO/Pfo are required for the activation of B function genes and function together in the recruitment and determination of petals and stamens. Our findings suggest that gene duplication, change in expression pattern, gain or loss of functional domains, and alteration of key gene functions all contribute to the divergence of floral patterning in L. japonicus.
Transcription of the nirK and nirS genes coding for dissimilatory bacterial nitrite reductases was analyzed by reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) of mRNA isolated from rhizosphere samples of three economically important grain legumes at maturity: Vicia faba, Lupinus albus, and Pisum sativum. The nirK gene and transcripts could be detected in all the rhizosphere samples. In contrast, nirS could not be detected. Sampling variations were analyzed by comparing denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiles derived from nirK RT-PCR products. High similarity was observed between the replicates, and so one representative product per legume was cloned. Clones with the correct insert size were screened by restriction fragment length polymorphism by using the restriction enzyme MspI. The clones could be distributed into 12 different patterns. Patterns 1, 3, 4, 5, and 7 were common in clone libraries of the three rhizosphere types under study. Patterns 2, 9, 10, and 11 were absent from Pisum rhizospheres, while patterns 6, 8, and 12 were absent from the Vicia library. Pattern 1, which was the most dominant in the Vicia and Lupinus libraries, constituted about 25% of all clones. The Lupinus library had clones representing all 12 patterns, indicating it to be the most diverse among the three. Clones representative of each pattern were sequenced. All patterns grouped together forming a distinct cluster, which was divergent from previously described nirK sequences in the database. The study revealed a hitherto unknown diversity of denitrifiers in legume rhizospheres. A plant-dependent rhizosphere effect on the transcripts of a gene was evident.
Storage protein synthesis is dependent on available nitrogen in the seed, which may be controlled by amino acid import via specific transporters. To analyze their rate-limiting role for seed protein synthesis, a Vicia faba amino acid permease, VfAAP1, has been ectopically expressed in pea (Pisum sativum) and Vicia narbonensis seeds under the control of the legumin B4 promoter. In mature seeds, starch is unchanged but total nitrogen is 10% to 25% higher, which affects mainly globulin, vicilin, and legumin, rather than albumin synthesis. Transgenic seeds in vitro take up more [14C]-glutamine, indicating increased sink strength for amino acids. In addition, more [14C] is partitioned into proteins. Levels of total free amino acids in growing seeds are unchanged but with a shift toward higher relative abundance of asparagine, aspartate, glutamine, and glutamate. Hexoses are decreased, whereas metabolites of glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid cycle are unchanged or slightly lower. Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase activity and the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase-to-pyruvate kinase ratios are higher in seeds of one and three lines, indicating increased anaplerotic fluxes. Increases of individual seed size by 20% to 30% and of vegetative biomass indicate growth responses probably due to improved nitrogen status. However, seed yield per plant was not altered. Root application of [15N] ammonia results in significantly higher label in transgenic seeds, as well as in stems and pods, and indicates stimulation of nitrogen root uptake. In summary, VfAAP1 expression increases seed sink strength for nitrogen, improves plant nitrogen status, and leads to higher seed protein. We conclude that seed protein synthesis is nitrogen limited and that seed uptake activity for nitrogen is rate limiting for storage protein synthesis.
During gravitropism, the accumulation of auxin in the lower side of the stem causes increased growth and the subsequent curvature, while the gaseous hormone ethylene plays a modulating role in regulating the kinetics of growth asymmetries. Light also contributes to the control of gravitropic curvature, potentially through its interaction with ethylene biosynthesis. In this study, red-light pulse treatment of etiolated pea epicotyls was evaluated for its effect on ethylene biosynthesis during gravitropic curvature. Ethylene biosynthesis analysis included measurements of ethylene; the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC); malonyl-conjugated ACC (MACC); and expression levels of pea ACC oxidase (Ps-ACO1) and ACC synthase (Ps-ACS1, Ps-ACS2) genes by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis. Red-pulsed seedlings were given a 6 min pulse of 11 micromoles m-2 s-1 red-light 15 h prior to horizontal reorientation for consistency with the timeline of red-light inhibition of ethylene production. Red-pulse treatment significantly reduced ethylene production and MACC levels in epicotyl tissue. However, there was no effect of red-pulse treatment on ACC level, or expression of ACS or ACO genes. During gravitropic curvature, ethylene production increased from 60 to 120 min after horizontal placement in both control and red-pulsed epicotyls. In red-pulsed tissues, ACC levels increased by 120 min after horizontal reorientation, accompanied by decreased MACC levels in the lower portion of the epicotyl. Overall, our results demonstrate that ethylene production in etiolated epicotyls increases after the initiation of curvature. This ethylene increase may inhibit cell growth in the lower portion of the epicotyl and contribute to tip straightening and reduced overall curvature observed after the initial 60 min of curvature in etiolated pea epicotyls.
Some pathogenesis-related genes are expressed in fungi only when the pathogen is in the host, but the host signals that trigger these gene expressions have not been identified. Virulent Nectria haematococca infects pea plants and requires either pelA, which is induced by pectin, or pelD, which is induced only in planta. However, the host signal(s) that trigger pelD expression was unknown. Here we report the isolation of the host signals and identify homoserine and asparagine, two free amino acids found in uniquely high levels in pea seedlings, as the pelD-inducing signals. N. haematococca has evolved a mechanism to sense the host tissue environment by using the high levels of two free amino acids in this plant, thereby triggering the expression of pelD to assist the pathogenic process.
Bruchins, mono and bis (3-hydroxypropanoate) esters of long chain alpha,omega-diols, are a recently discovered class of insect elicitors that stimulate cell division and neoplasm formation when applied to pods of peas and certain other legumes. Differential display analysis resulted in the identification of an mRNA whose level was increased by the application of Bruchin B to pea pods. The corresponding amplification product was cloned and sequenced and a full length cDNA sequence was obtained. This cDNA and the gene from which it was derived were assigned the name CYP93C18 based upon sequence similarities to the cytochrome P450 mono-oxygenase CYP93C subfamily, which contains isoflavone synthase genes from legumes. RNA gel blots and quantitative RT-PCR demonstrated that expression of CYP93C18 increased within 8 h of bruchin treatment to a maximum of 100-200-fold of the level in untreated pods, and then declined. The up-regulation of CYP93C18 was followed by an increase in the level of the isoflavone phytoalexin, pisatin. Pisatin was detectable in the bruchin-treated pods after 16 h and reached a maximum between 32 h and 64 h. This, the first report of induction of phytoalexin biosynthesis by an insect elicitor, suggests that Bruchin B not only stimulates neoplasm formation, but also activates other plant defence responses.
Pinnate compound leaves have laminae called leaflets distributed at intervals along an axis, the rachis, whereas simple leaves have a single lamina. In simple- and compound-leaved species, the PHANTASTICA (PHAN) gene is required for lamina formation. Antirrhinum majus mutants lacking a functional gene develop abaxialized, bladeless adult leaves. Transgenic downregulation of PHAN in the compound tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) leaf results in an abaxialized rachis without leaflets. The extent of PHAN gene expression was found to be correlated with leaf morphology in diverse compound-leaved species; pinnate leaves had a complete adaxial domain of PHAN gene expression, and peltate leaves had a diminished domain. These previous studies predict the form of a compound-leaved phan mutant to be either peltate or an abaxialized rachis. Here, we characterize crispa, a phan mutant in pea (Pisum sativum), and find that the compound leaf remains pinnate, with individual leaflets abaxialized, rather than the whole leaf. The mutant develops ectopic stipules on the petiole-rachis axis, which are associated with ectopic class 1 KNOTTED1-like homeobox (KNOX) gene expression, showing that the interaction between CRISPA and the KNOX gene PISUM SATIVUM KNOTTED2 specifies stipule boundaries. KNOX and CRISPA gene expression patterns indicate that the mechanism of pea leaf initiation is more like Arabidopsis thaliana than tomato.
In this study the further characterization of the Vicia faba leghaemoglobin promoter pVfLb29 is presented that was previously shown to be specifically active in the infected cells of root nodules and in arbuscule-containing cells of mycorrhizal roots. Using promoter studies in transgenic hairy roots of the Pisum sativum mutant RisNod24, disabled in the formation of functional arbuscules, VfLb29 promoter activity is assigned to later stages of arbuscule development. In order to narrow down the regions containing cis-acting elements of pVfLb29, the activity of five VfLb29 promoter deletions (-797/-31 to -175/-31 in relation to the start codon) fused to the gusAint coding region were tested in transgenic V. hirsuta hairy roots. The results specify a promoter region ranging from position -410 to -326 (85 bp) as necessary for gus expression in arbuscule-containing cells, whereas this segment is not involved in the nodule-specific activity. Sequence analysis of the pVfLb29 fragment -410/-326 (85 bp) revealed sequence motifs previously shown to be cis-acting elements of diverse promoters. To investigate the autonomous function of pVfLb29 regions for activation in arbuscule-containing cells, different regions of pVfLb29 from positions -410 to -198 were used to prepare chimeric promoter constructs for trans-activation studies. These fragments alone did not activate the mycorrhiza inactive promoter of the Vicia faba leghaemoglobin gene VfLb3, showing that the activation of pVfLb29 in arbuscule-containing cells is governed by a complex regulatory system that requires at least two modules located between position -410 and -31 of the VfLb29 gene.
In Pisum sativum, the RAMOSUS genes RMS1, RMS2, and RMS5 regulate shoot branching via physiologically defined mobile signals. RMS1 is most likely a carotenoid cleavage enzyme and acts with RMS5 to control levels of an as yet unidentified mobile branching inhibitor required for auxin inhibition of branching. Our work provides molecular, genetic, and physiological evidence that RMS1 plays a central role in a shoot-to-root-to-shoot feedback system that regulates shoot branching in pea. Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) positively regulates RMS1 transcript level, a potentially important mechanism for regulation of shoot branching by IAA. In addition, RMS1 transcript levels are dramatically elevated in rms3, rms4, and rms5 plants, which do not contain elevated IAA levels. This degree of upregulation of RMS1 expression cannot be achieved in wild-type plants by exogenous IAA application. Grafting studies indicate that an IAA-independent mobile feedback signal contributes to the elevated RMS1 transcript levels in rms4 plants. Therefore, the long-distance signaling network controlling branching in pea involves IAA, the RMS1 inhibitor, and an IAA-independent feedback signal. Consistent with physiological studies that predict an interaction between RMS2 and RMS1, rms2 mutations appear to disrupt this IAA-independent regulation of RMS1 expression.
Late-embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins are hydrophilic proteins that accumulate to a high level in desiccation-tolerant tissues and are thus prominent in seeds. They are expected to play a protective role during dehydration; however, functional evidence is scarce. We identified a LEA protein of group 3 (PsLEAm) that was localized within the matrix space of pea (Pisum sativum) seed mitochondria. PsLEAm revealed typical LEA features such as high hydrophilicity and repeated motifs, except for the N-terminal transit peptide. Most of the highly charged protein was predicted to fold into amphiphilic alpha-helixes. PsLEAm was expressed during late seed development and remained in the dry seed and throughout germination. Application of the stress hormone abscisic acid was found to reinduce the expression of PsLEAm transcripts during germination. PsLEAm could not be detected in vegetative tissues; however, its expression could be reinduced in leaves by severe water stress. The recombinant PsLEAm was shown to protect two mitochondrial matrix enzymes, fumarase and rhodanese, during drying in an in vitro assay. The overall results constitute, to our knowledge, the first characterization of a LEA protein in mitochondria and experimental evidence for a beneficial role of a LEA protein with respect to proteins during desiccation.
Lhcb1-2 from pea was constitutively expressed in transgenic tobacco plants and assessed for functional impact. The successful assembly of the encoded proteins into LHCII trimers was confirmed by electrospray tandem mass spectrometry. Constitutive production of LHCb1-2 led to increased number of thylakoid membranes per chloroplast, increased grana stacking, higher chloroplast numbers per palisade cell and increased photosynthetic capacity at low irradiance, both on a chlorophyll and leaf area basis. The transgenic plants also displayed increased cell volume, larger leaves, higher leaf number per plant at flowering, increased biomass and increased seed weight, when grown under low irradiance levels. Under high irradiance, both transgenic and wild type plants displayed similar photosynthetic rates when tested at 25 degrees C; however, the non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) and qE values increased in the transgenic plants. The exposure of transgenic plants to a photoinhibitory treatment (4 degrees C for 4 h, under continuous illumination) resulted in more detrimental impairment of photosynthesis, since recovery was slower than the non-transgenic plants. These data indicate that constitutive expression of additional Lhcb1-2 transgenes led to a series of changes at all levels of the plant (cellular, leaf and whole organism), and a delay in flowering and senescence. The additional production of the pea protein appears to be accommodated by increasing cellular structures such as the number of thylakoids per chloroplast, organelle volume, organelles per cell, and leaf expansion. The presence of the trimeric pea protein in the tobacco LHCII, however, caused a possible change in the organization of the associated super-complex, that in turn limited photosynthesis at low temperature.
Suppressive subtractive hybridisation was applied to the analysis of late stage arbuscular mycorrhizal development in pea. 96 cDNA clones were amplified and 81, which carried fragments more than 200 nt in size, were sequence analysed. Among 67 unique fragments, 10 showed no homology and 10 were similar to sequences with unknown function. RNA accumulation of the corresponding 67 genes was analysed by hybridisation of macro-arrays. The cDNAs used as probes were derived from roots of wild type and late mutant pea genotypes, inoculated or not with the AM fungus Glomus mosseae. After calibration, a more than 2.5-fold mycorrhiza-induced RNA accumulation was detected in two independent experiments in the wild type for 25 genes, 22 of which seemed to be induced specifically during late stage AM development. Differential expression for 7 genes was confirmed by RT-PCR using RNA from mycorrhiza and from controls of a different pea cultivar. In order to confirm arbuscule-related expression, the Medicago truncatula EST data base was screened for homologous sequences with putative mycorrhiza-related expression and among a number of sequences with significant similarities, a family of trypsin inhibitor genes could be identified. Mycorrhiza-induced RNA accumulation was verified for five members by real-time PCR and arbuscule-related activation of the promoter could be shown in transgenic roots for one of the genes, MtTi 1.
RNA editing in higher plant chloroplasts involves C-to-U conversion at specific sites in the transcripts. To examine whether pea shares editing sites with other angiosperms, a systematic search for editing sites in pea chloroplast transcripts was performed. Based on amino acid sequence alignment, 451 RNA editing sites were predicted from 60 transcripts. Sequence analysis of amplified cDNAs for these potential editing sites revealed 19 true editing sites from 13 transcripts. Together with those reported previously, the total number of editing sites is 27 from 16 transcripts in pea chloroplasts. Twenty-two sites are conserved among other plant species, whereas five sites are unique to pea. Among the 27 editing sites, seven are partially edited. The most interesting is the ndhG site 1, which has led to the diversification of the evolutionarily conserved amino acid sequence. This observation suggests that some of the editing events cause the diversity of amino acid sequences, and hence, that prediction of editing sites based on amino acid sequence alignment has its own limitations.
Microbial structural and expression profiles of the rhizospheres of three legumes, faba beans, peas and white lupin, were compared by RNA-arbitrarily primed PCR technique. Two different primers, M13 reverse and 10-mer primers, were used in the amplification and products resolved on non-denaturing polyacrylamide gel. With both DNA and RNA profiles Lupinus and Pisum rhizospheres were more similar to each other than to Vicia rhizosphere. The RAP-PCR products were also dot blotted and probed for bacterial peptidase transcripts. Plant-dependent rhizosphere effect was evident by the marked absence of transcripts for bacterial neutral metallopeptidase in Lupinus rhizosphere. The results of dot blot were further confirmed by RT-PCR for the expression of bacterial neutral metallopeptidase in the three rhizospheres.
A single-gene recessive mutant which displays increased phototropic and gravitropic responses has been isolated in Pisum sativum L. cv. Torsdag and is provisionally named mtr-1, for its modified tropic response. Mutant plants attain a greater degree of bending during both phototropic and gravitropic induction due to an extension of the curvature phase. In addition to their increase in tropic curvature, mutant plants have longer and narrower leaves as mature plants, attenuated blue-light-induced ion flux responses, and lower levels of PsPK5 mRNA (a PHOT1 orthologue). Possible causes of these effects are discussed.
Pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins are expressed by virtually all plants in response to pathogen infection and, in many cases, in response to abiotic stresses as well and include the PR10 family. However, the precise roles of the PR10 protein family in abiotic stress responses are not clear. In this paper we report, for the first time, that the constitutive expression of a pea PR10 gene in Brassica napus enhances their germination and growth in the presence of NaCl. Our findings are discussed within the context of PR10 protein function and their utility in engineering stress tolerant crops.
Chloroplasts possess bacterial-type systems for transcription and translation. On the basis of the identification of a Chlamydomonas reinhardtii gene encoding a RelA-SpoT homolog (RSH) that catalyzes the synthesis of guanosine tetra- or pentaphosphate [(p)ppGpp], we have previously suggested the operation of stringent control in the chloroplast genetic system. Although RSH genes have also been identified in several higher plants, the activities of the encoded enzymes and their mode of action in chloroplasts have remained uncharacterized. We have now characterized the intrinsic (p)ppGpp synthase activity of chloroplast extracts prepared from pea (Pisum sativum). Fractionation by ultracentrifugation suggested that the (p)ppGpp synthase activity of a translationally active chloroplast stromal extract was associated with 70S ribosomes. Furthermore, this enzymatic activity was inhibited by tetracycline, as was the peptide elongation activity of the extract. Structural comparisons between rRNA molecules of Escherichia coli and pea chloroplasts revealed the conservation of putative tetracycline-binding sites. These observations demonstrate the presence of a ribosome-associated (p)ppGpp synthase activity in the chloroplasts of a higher plant, further implicating (p)ppGpp in a genetic system of chloroplasts similar to that operative in bacteria.
Regulation of methyl-accepting chemotaxis protein (MCP) genes of Rhizobium leguminosarum was studied under symbiotic conditions. Transcriptional fusions using both beta-galactosidase and beta-glucuronidase genes within two different mcp genes demonstrated that mcp expression decreased significantly during nodulation. Immunoblots using an anti-MCP antibody detected MCPs in free-living cells but not in bacteroids. Down-regulation during nodulation was not dependent upon known regulatory proteins involved in induction of expression of genes involved in nitrogen fixation. Environmental conditions found in the bacteroid that may trigger down-regulation were investigated by growing free-living cultures under a variety of growth conditions. Growth under low oxygen concentration or using succinate as a sole carbon source did not lower expression of the mcp gene fusions.
Virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) is an attractive reverse-genetics tool for studies of gene function. However, efficient VIGS has only been accomplished in a few plant species. In order to extend the application of VIGS, we examined whether a VIGS vector based on Pea early browning virus (PEBV) would produce recognizable phenotypes in Pisum sativum. A plasmid vector of PEBV was modified to allow agro-inoculation and insertion of heterologous sequences. cDNA fragments of the P. sativum phytoene desaturase (PDS), LEAFY (LFY) and KORRIGAN1 (KOR1) homologues were inserted into the PEBV RNA2 vector, replacing the genes required for nematode transmission. Pisum sativum inoculated with PEBV carrying a fragment of PsPDS developed characteristic photo-bleached leaves and this phenotype was associated with a significant reduction in PsPDS mRNA. The P. sativum homologue of LFY is known as UNIFOLIATA (UNI). Plants inoculated with PEBV carrying a fragment of UNI developed distorted flowers and leaves with modified architecture, which are also observed in UNI-mutants. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the KOR1-mutant is characterized by an extreme dwarf phenotype. Pisum sativum plants inoculated with PEBV carrying a fragment of PsKOR1 displayed a significant reduction in height and inhibition of root growth. The PEBV VIGS vector did not affect the ability of P. sativum to flower, set seeds, and form nodules characteristic of symbiosis with rhizobium. These results suggest that the PEBV vector can be applied to functional genomics in a legume species to study genes involved in a wide range of biological processes.
The glyoxysomal malate dehydrogenase (gMDH) catalyses the formation of oxaloacetate from malate during beta-oxidation of fatty acids in the glyoxysome. A partial Pisum sativum L. (cv. Greenfeast) cDNA was first isolated from a suppression subtractive hybridisation cDNA library obtained from heavy metal stressed plants. The full length cDNA was then isolated by rapid amplification of cDNA ends. The translated sequence showed strong similarity to Cucumis sativus and Citrullus lanatus gMDH including a typical glyoxysome-targeting presequence comprising the PTS2 motif and a cleavage site for a cystein-directed protease. Exposure of pea plants to Cd2+ induced expression of the gMDH gene in mature pea leaves indicating that the enzyme is under environmental control in addition to the normal developmental regulation pattern.
From the characterization of the recessive resistance gene, sbm1, in pea we have identified the eukaryotic translation initiation factor, eIF4E, as a susceptibility factor required for infection with the Potyvirus, Pea seed-borne mosaic virus. A functional analysis of the mode of action of the product of the dominant allele revealed a novel function for eIF4E in its support for virus movement from cell-to-cell, in addition to its probable support for viral RNA translation, and hence replication. Different resistance specificities in two independent pea lines were explained by different mutations in eIF4E. On the modelled structure of eIF4E the coding changes were in both cases lying in and around the structural pocket involved in binding the 5'-m7G cap of eukaryotic mRNAs. Protein expression and cap-binding analysis showed that eIF4E encoded by a resistant plant could not bind to m7G-Sepharose, a result which may point to functional redundancy between eIF4E and the paralogous eIF(iso)4E in resistant peas. These observations, together with related findings for other potyvirus recessive resistances, provide a more complete picture of the potyvirus life cycle.
The pea chloroplastic fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase) antisense construct reduced the endogenous level of expression of the corresponding Arabidopsis thaliana gene. The reduction of foliar FBPase activity in the transformants T(2) and T(3) generation ranged from 20% to 42%, and correlated with lower levels of FBPase protein. FBPase antisense plants displayed different phenotypes with a clear increase in leaf fresh weight. Measurements of photosynthesis revealed a higher carbon-assimilation rate. Decreased FBPase activity boosted the foliar carbohydrate contents, with a shift in the sucrose:starch ratio, which reached a maximum of 0.99 when the activity loss was 41%. Nitrate reductase activity decreased simultaneously with an increase in glutamine synthetase activity, which could be explained in terms of ammonium assimilation regulation by sugar content. These results suggest the role of FBPase as a key enzyme in CO(2) assimilation, and also in co-ordinating carbon and nitrogen metabolism.
Translocation of proteins across membranes is essential for the biogenesis of each cell and is achieved by proteinaceous complexes. We analyzed the translocation complex of the intermembrane space from chloroplasts and identified a 12-kDa protein associated with the Toc machinery. Toc12 is an outer envelope protein exposing a soluble domain into the intermembrane space. Toc12 contains a J-domain and stimulates the ATPase activity of DnaK. The conformational stability and the ability to stimulate Hsp70 are dependent on a disulfide bridge within the loop region of the J-domain, suggesting a redox-regulated activation of the chaperone. Toc12 is associated with Toc64 and Tic22. Its J-domain recruits the Hsp70 of outer envelope membrane to the intermembrane space translocon and facilitates its interaction to the preprotein.
Seedling apical hook development involves a complex interplay of hormones and light in the regulation of differential cell growth. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms that integrate these diverse signals to control bending of the embryonic stem are poorly understood. The Arabidopsis ethylene-regulated HOOKLESS1 (HLS1) gene is essential for apical hook formation. Herein, we identify two auxin response regulators that act downstream of HLS1 to control cell elongation in the hypocotyl. Extragenic suppressors of hls1 were identified as mutations in AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR 2 (ARF2). The level of ARF2 protein was decreased by ethylene, and this response required HLS1. Exposure to light decreased HLS1 protein levels and evoked a concomitant increase in ARF2 accumulation. These studies demonstrate that both ethylene and light signals affect differential cell growth by acting through HLS1 to modulate the auxin response factors, pinpointing HLS1 as a key integrator of the signaling pathways that control hypocotyl bending.
The endogenous brassinosteroids in the dwarf mutant lk of pea (Pisum sativum) were quantified by gas chromatography-selected ion monitoring. The levels of castasterone, 6-deoxocastasterone, and 6-deoxotyphasterol in lk shoots were reduced 4-, 70-, and 6-fold, respectively, compared with those of the wild type. The fact that the application of brassinolide restored the growth of the mutant indicated that the dwarf mutant lk is brassinosteroid deficient. Gas chromatography-selected ion monitoring analysis of the endogenous sterols in lk shoots revealed that the levels of campestanol and sitostanol were reduced 160- and 10-fold, respectively, compared with those of wild-type plants. These data, along with metabolic studies, showed that the lk mutant has a defect in the conversion of campest-4-en-3-one to 5alpha-campestan-3-one, which is a key hydrogenation step in the synthesis of campestanol from campesterol. This defect is the same as that found in the Arabidopsis det2 mutant and the Ipomoea nil kbt mutant. The pea gene homologous to the DET2 gene, PsDET2, was cloned, and it was found that the lk mutation would result in a putative truncated PsDET2 protein. Thus it was concluded that the short stature of the lk mutant is due to a defect in the steroidal 5alpha-reductase gene. This defect was also observed in the callus induced from the lk mutant. Biosynthetic pathways involved in the conversion of campesterol to campestanol are discussed in detail.
Suppression subtractive hybridisation was used to isolate heavy metal-induced genes from Pisum sativum roots hydroponically exposed to 5 microM HgCl2 and 10 microM EDTA. Six genes were induced out of which one, PsHMIP6B, was novel. The other genes (PsSAMT, PsI2'H, PsNDA, PsAPSR, PsPOD) had not previously been isolated from pea and sequenced. All six genes were also induced after exposure to 5 microM HgCl2 in the absence of EDTA. The induction pattern was in some cases different for the two Hg species, demonstrating a quicker response to-free Hg2+ than Hg-EDTA. The stress-specificity of the gene regulation was investigated by hydroponically adding 5 microM Cd2+. Most Hg-induced cDNAs were also induced by Cd2+ but to a smaller extent than after Hg exposure. In addition, the gene expression was also probed for tissue specificity, which showed that all six genes were expressed in roots and not in leaves.
Crenate broomrape (Orobanche crenata) is a parasitic plant that threatens legume production in Mediterranean areas. Pea (Pisum sativum) is severely affected, and only moderate levels of genetic resistance have so far been identified. In the present work we selected the most resistant accession available (Ps 624) and compared it with a susceptible (Messire) cultivar. Experiments were performed by using pot and Petri dish bioassays, showing little differences in the percentage of broomrape seed germination induced by both genotypes, but a significant hamper in the number of successfully installed tubercles and their developmental stage in the Ps 624 compared to Messire. The protein profile of healthy and infected P. sativum root tissue were analysed by two-dimensional electrophoresis. Approximately 500 individual protein spots could be detected on silver stained gels. At least 22 different protein spots differentiated control, non-infected, Messire and Ps 624 accessions. Some of them were identified by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry and database searching as cysteine proteinase, beta-1,3-glucanase, endochitinase, profucosidase, and ABA-responsive protein. Both qualitative and quantitative differences have been found among infected and non-infected root extracts. Thus, in the infected susceptible Messire genotype 34 spots were decreased, one increased and three newly detected, while in Ps 624, 15 spots were increased, three decreased and one newly detected. In response to the inoculation, proteins that correspond to enzymes of the carbohydrate metabolism (fructokinase, fructose-bisphosphate aldolase), nitrogen metabolism (ferredoxin-NADP reductase) and mitochondrial electronic chain transport (alternative oxidase 2) decreased in the susceptible check, while proteins that correspond to enzymes of the nitrogen assimilation pathway (glutamine synthetase) or typical pathogen defence, PR proteins, including beta-1,3-glucanase and peroxidases, increased in Ps 624. Results are discussed in terms of changes in the carbohydrate and nitrogen metabolism an induction of defence proteins in response to broomrape parasitism.
END1 was isolated by an immunosubtractive approach intended to identify specific proteins present in the different pea (Pisum sativum L.) floral organs and the genes encoding them. Following this strategy we obtained a monoclonal antibody (mAbA1) that specifically recognized a 26-kDa protein (END1) only detected in anther tissues. Northern blot assays showed that END1 is expressed specifically in the anther. In situ hybridization and immunolocalization assays corroborated the specific expression of END1 in the epidermis, connective, endothecium and middle layer cells during the different stages of anther development. END1 is the first anther-specific gene isolated from pea. The absence of a practicable pea transformation method together with the fact that no END1 homologue gene exists in Arabidopsis prevented us from carrying out END1 functional studies. However, we designed functional studies with the END1 promoter in different dicot species, as the specific spatial and temporal expression pattern of END1 suggested, among other things, the possibility of using its promoter region for biotechnological applications. Using different constructs to drive the uidA (beta-glucuronidase) gene controlled by the 2.7-kb isolated promoter sequence we have proven that the END1 promoter is fully functional in the anthers of transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh., Nicotiana tabacum L. (tobacco) and Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. (tomato) plants. The presence in the -330-bp region of the promoter sequence of three putative CArG boxes also suggests that END1 could be a target gene of MADS-box proteins and that, subsequently, it would be activated by genes controlling floral organ identity.
We report the cloning and characterization of both the cDNA (tufA) and genomic clones encoding for a chloroplast translation elongation factor (EF-Tu) from pea. The analysis of the deduced amino acids of the cDNA clone reveals the presence of putative transit peptide sequence and four GTP binding domains and two EF-Tu signature motifs in the mature polypeptide region. Using in vivo immunostaining followed by confocal microscopy pea EF-Tu was localized to chloroplast. The steady state transcript level of pea tufA was high in leaves and not detectable in roots. The expression of this gene is stimulated by light. The differential expression of this gene in response to various abiotic stresses showed that it is down-regulated in response to salinity and ABA and up-regulated in response to low temperature and salicylic acid treatment. These results indicate that regulation of pea tufA may have an important role in plant adaptation to environmental stresses.
The organ specificity of four promoters that are known to direct seed-specific gene expression was tested. Whereas the phaseolin (phas)- and legumin B4 (leB4)-promoters were from genes encoding 7S and 11S globulins from Phaseolus vulgaris and Vicia faba, respectively, the usp- and the sbp-promoters were from non-storage protein genes of V. faba. The expression of different promoter-reporter gene fusions was followed either by RT-PCR or by registering the reporter enzyme activity in organs of transgenic tobacco, pea, narbon bean, or linseed. In addition to seeds, the promoters directed reporter gene expression in pollen and in seed coats. USP-, vicilin- and legumin-mRNA were detected by RT-PCR in pollen of Pisum sativum and V. faba. Expression during microsporogenesis and embryogenesis seems to be a general character of various seed protein genes.
An Arabidopsis cDNA coding for a previously uncharacterized isoform of inorganic pyrophosphatase was isolated. It was used to complement an E. coli mutant, demonstrating that it coded for an active enzyme. MgCl(2) was necessary for the protein's activity, whilst NaF inhibited it. The K(m) for pyrophosphate and the pH optimum of the protein was determined. The gene coding for this protein was expressed in all tissues, and its expression in rosette leaves was induced by incubation on metabolizable sugars. In vitro import experiments demonstrated that the protein could be imported into chloroplasts and localized to the stromal compartment.
Type 1 phototropin, one of the blue light receptors responsible for phototropism, is encoded in peas by at least two genes, PsPHOT1A and PsPHOT1B (formerly PsPK4 and PsPK5), both of which are more similar to Arabidopsis PHOT1 than to Arabidopsis PHOT2. We show here that PsPHOT1B encodes a full-length phototropin, whose expression pattern suggests that Psphot1b is the predominant phot1-type phototropin in etiolated seedlings. The gene encoding the other type 1 phototropin, PsPHOT1A, is expressed at low levels, with its highest levels in the leaves and stems of more mature, light-grown plants. Studies with phyA, phyB and the phyAphyB double mutants show that phyA and phyB have partially redundant roles in the reduction of PsPHOT1B expression under red light.
To test the feasibility of altering polyamine levels by influencing their catabolic pathway, we obtained transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants constitutively expressing either maize (Zea mays) polyamine oxidase (MPAO) or pea (Pisum sativum) copper amine oxidase (PCuAO), two extracellular and H(2)O(2)-producing enzymes. Despite the high expression levels of the transgenes in the extracellular space, the amount of free polyamines in the homozygous transgenic plants was similar to that in the wild-type ones, suggesting either a tight regulation of polyamine levels or a different compartmentalization of the two recombinant proteins and the bulk amount of endogenous polyamines. Furthermore, no change in lignification levels and plant morphology was observed in the transgenic plants compared to untransformed plants, while a small but significant change in reactive oxygen species-scavenging capacity was verified. Both the MPAO and the PCuAO tobacco transgenic plants produced high amounts of H(2)O(2) only in the presence of exogenously added enzyme substrates. These observations provided evidence for the limiting amount of freely available polyamines in the extracellular space in tobacco plants under physiological conditions, which was further confirmed for untransformed maize and pea plants. The amount of H(2)O(2) produced by exogenously added polyamines in cell suspensions from the MPAO transgenic plants was sufficient to induce programmed cell death, which was sensitive to catalase treatment and required gene expression and caspase-like activity. The MPAO and PCuAO transgenic plants represent excellent tools to study polyamine secretion and conjugation in the extracellular space, as well as to determine when and how polyamine catabolism actually intervenes both in cell wall development and in response to stress.
Nucleoside diphosphate kinases (NDPKs) are key metabolic enzymes that catalyze the synthesis of non-adenosine nucleoside triphosphates (NTP) by transfer of the terminal phosphate between NDP and NTP. Recently we isolated three NDPK cDNAs from Chinese cabbage cDNA library. BcNDK1 has 636 bp and encodes a putative 17.4 kDa protein, BcNDK2 has 854 bp and encodes a putative 25.5 kDa protein, and BcNDK3 is 986 bp long and encodes a putative 25.7 kDa protein. The precursor proteins of BcNDK2 and BcNDK3 have long N-terminal extensions containing putative chloroplast or mitochondrial targeting sequences. A phylogenic tree showed that the 3 BcNDKs are highly homologous to other plant NDPK genes, especially those of Arabidopsis. Expression of the BcNDK genes depended on the developmental stage and the conditions of seed germination. Most notably, expression of BcNDK2 increased dramatically in seedlings transferred to the light after germinating in the dark. In addition, BcNDK3 differed from BcNDK1 in being highly expressed in the hooks and cotyledons of seedlings. Although all BcNDKs were highly expressed in petals, BcNDK1 was also expressed in pistils. Expression of each of the BcNDKs increased as the flower bud matured. These results indicate that NDPKs are involved in physiological pathways activated by a variety of environmental conditions and at different developmental stages.
Water and nutrients required by developing seeds are mainly supplied by the phloem and have to be released from a maternal parenchyma tissue before being utilized by the filial tissues of embryo and endosperm. To identify aquaporins that could be involved in this process four full-length cDNAs were cloned and sequenced from a cDNA library of developing seed coats of pea (Pisum sativum L.). The cDNA of PsPIP1-1 appeared to be identical to that of clone 7a/TRG-31, a turgor-responsive gene cloned previously from pea roots. PsPIP1-1, PsPIP2-1, and PsTIP1-1, or their possible close homologues, were also expressed in cotyledons of developing and germinating seeds, and in roots and shoots of seedlings, but transcripts of PsNIP-1 were only detected in the seed coat. In mature dry seeds, high hybridization signals were observed with the probe for PsPIP1-1, but transcripts of PsPIP2-1, PsTIP1-1, and PsNIP-1 were not detected. Functional characterization after heterologous expression in Xenopus oocytes showed that PsPIP2-1 and PsTIP1-1 are aquaporins whereas PsNIP-1 is an aquaglyceroporin. PsNIP-1, like several other NIPs, contains a tryptophan residue corresponding with Trp-48 in GlpF (the glycerol facilitator of Escherichia coli) that borders the selectivity filter in the permeation channel. It is suggested that PsPIP1-1 and/or its possible close homologues could play a role in water absorption during seed imbibition, and that PsPIP2-1, possibly together with PsPIP1-1, could be involved in the release of phloem water from the seed coat symplast, which is intimately connected with the release of nutrients for the embryo.
Synthesis of the Rhizobium leguminosarum [NiFe] hydrogenase requires the participation of 16 accessory genes (hupCDEFGHIJKhypABFCDEX) besides the genes encoding the structural proteins (hupSL). Transcription of hupSL is controlled by a -24/-12-type promoter (P(1)), located upstream of hupS and regulated by NifA. In this work, a second -24/-12-type promoter (P(3)), located upstream of the hupG gene and transcribing hupGHIJ genes in R. leguminosarum pea (Pisum sativum L.) bacteroids, has been identified in the hup gene cluster. Promoter P(3) was also active in R. leguminosarum free-living cells, as evidenced by genetic complementation of hydrogenase mutants. Both NifA and NtrC activated P(3) expression in the heterologous host Klebsiella pneumoniae. Also, P(3) activity was highly stimulated by K. pneumoniae NifA in Escherichia coli. This NifA activation of P(3) expression only required the sigma(54)-binding site, and it was independent of any cis-acting element upstream of the sigma(54) box, which suggests a direct interaction of free NifA with the RNA polymerase holoenzyme. P(3)-dependent hupGHIJ expression in pea nodules started in interzone II/III, spanned through nitrogen-fixing zone III, and was coincident with the NifA-dependent nifH expression pattern. However, P(3) was dispensable for hupGHIJ transcription and hydrogenase activity in pea bacteroids due to transcription initiated at P(1). This fact and the lack of an activator recruitment system suggest that P(3) plays a secondary role in symbiotic hupGHIJ expression.
The pea (Pisum sativum) homolog, PsKO1, of the Arabidopsis GA3 gene was isolated. It codes for a cytochrome P450 from the CYP701A subfamily and has ent-kaurene oxidase (KO) activity, catalyzing the three step oxidation of ent-kaurene to ent-kaurenoic acid in the gibberellin (GA) biosynthetic pathway when expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). PsKO1 is encoded by the LH gene because in three independent mutant alleles, lh-1, lh-2, and lh-3, PsKO1 has altered sequence, and the lh-1 allele, when expressed in yeast, failed to metabolize ent-kaurene. The lh mutants of pea are GA deficient and have reduced internode elongation and root growth. One mutant (lh-2) also causes a large increase in seed abortion. PsKO1 (LH) is expressed in all tissues examined, including stems, roots, and seeds, and appears to be a single-copy gene. Differences in sensitivity to the GA synthesis inhibitor, paclobutrazol, between the mutants appear to result from the distinct nature of the genetic lesions. These differences may also explain the tissue-specific differences between the mutants.
Legumes can enter into symbiotic relationships with both nitrogen-fixing bacteria (rhizobia) and mycorrhizal fungi. Nodulation by rhizobia results from a signal transduction pathway induced in legume roots by rhizobial Nod factors. DMI3, a Medicago truncatula gene that acts immediately downstream of calcium spiking in this signaling pathway and is required for both nodulation and mycorrhizal infection, has high sequence similarity to genes encoding calcium and calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CCaMKs). This indicates that calcium spiking is likely an essential component of the signaling cascade leading to nodule development and mycorrhizal infection, and sheds light on the biological role of plant CCaMKs.
Ectopic expression in Arabidopsis of a pea (Pisum sativum) cDNA (2ox2) encoding a gibberellin (GA) 2-oxidase (PsGA2ox2), involved in the deactivation of biologically active GAs, has been used to establish a role for GAs in promoting pollen tube growth. One line, 35S:2ox2/28c, when homozygous for the transgene, exhibits a novel small fruit phenotype. The 28c transgene reduces pollen tube growth, and this results in a reduced number of fertilized seeds that are only present at the end of the silique nearest the stigma. To confirm that the 28c pollen tube phenotype is due to sense expression of the 2ox2 mRNA, a "hairpin" RNA interface silencing construct, designed to silence 2ox2 expression, has been used to restore pollen tube growth and fruit development. The interaction between 28c and other mutants with increased GA response has also been examined to provide further evidence that GAs play an important role in pollen tube growth. Based on the ability of mutant alleles to suppress the 35S:2ox2/28c phenotype, we define new roles for the gar2-1 and rga alleles in GA signaling during pollen tube elongation in addition to their previously established roles in vegetative tissues. In contrast to the constitutive GA response observed in internodes and leaves lacking RGA and GAI, the rga-2 gai-d5 mutant combination is only a partial suppressor of the 28c phenotype. Because the dominant dwarfing gai-1 allele reduces GA response in vegetative tissues, its effect on plant fertility has been examined. Although gai-1 reduces seed set, this appears to reflect defects in reproductive development other than pollen tube function. Finally, we show that the genetic background (Landsberg erecta or Columbia) modifies the 28c phenotype and that this effect is not due to the ER/er difference between these two ecotypes.
We have isolated and characterized a novel giant retroelement, named Ogre, which is over 22 kb long and makes up at least 5% of the pea (Pisum sativum L.) genome. This element can be classified as a Ty3/gypsy-like LTR retrotransposon based on the presence of long terminal repeats (LTRs) and the order of the domains coding for typical retrotransposon proteins. In addition to its extreme length, it has several features which make it unique among the retroelements described so far: (1) the sequences coding for gag and prot proteins are separated from the rt/rh-int domains by several stop codons; (2) the region containing these stop codons is removed from the element transcripts by splicing which results in reconstitution of the complete gag-pol coding sequence; (3) only a part of the transcripts is spliced which probably determines the ratio of translated proteins; (4) the element contains an extra ORF located upstream the gag-pol coding sequences, potentially coding for a protein of 546-562 amino acids with unknown function. The transcriptional activity of the Ogre elements has been detected in all organs tested (leaves, roots, flowers) as well as in wounded leaves and protoplasts. Considering this retroelement's constitutive expression and observed high mutual similarity of the element genomic sequences, it is possible to speculate about its recent amplification in the genomes of pea and other legume plants.
NodD is the major regulator of nod genes expression in rhizobia. Previously, a HU-like protein in Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae has been identified to bind specifically with nod promoters and be involved in in vitro nodD transcription, but its in vivo function remained unknown. In this work we have cloned and sequenced the R. leguminosarum bv. viciae gene, named hurL, for this HU-like protein. Using the E. coli-expressed HurL proteins, we proved that HurL had high affinity to several nod promoters and showed a stimulation effect on in vitro nodD transcription at appropriate concentration. The R. leguminosarum bv. viciae hurL gene was mutated by insertion of a kanamycin resistance cassette. The obtained hurL mutant strain M704 exhibited poor growth under free-living conditions and failed to induce nodules on Pisum sativum cv. Frisson and Vicia hirsuta. Further studies of NodD production and nod genes-lacZ fusions expression in the hurL mutant revealed that inactivation of hurL led to severe impairment in the nodD expression, repression in the inducible expression of nodA and nodF, and slight enhancement in the expression of px2, a gene identified earlier in this lab. These results suggested that hurL might be required for maintaining the normal expression of nod genes in R. leguminosarum bv. viciae.
Alanine dehydrogenase (AldA) is the principal enzyme with which pea bacteroids synthesize alanine de novo. In free-living culture, AldA activity is induced by carboxylic acids (succinate, malate, and pyruvate), although the best inducer is alanine. Measurement of the intracellular concentration of alanine showed that AldA contributes to net alanine synthesis in laboratory cultures. Divergently transcribed from aldA is an AsnC type regulator, aldR. Mutation of aldR prevents induction of AldA activity. Plasmid-borne gusA fusions showed that aldR is required for transcription of both aldA and aldR; hence, AldR is autoregulatory. However, plasmid fusions containing the aldA-aldR intergenic region could apparently titrate out AldR, sometimes resulting in a complete loss of AldA enzyme activity. Therefore, integrated aldR::gusA and aldA::gusA fusions, as well as Northern blotting, were used to confirm the induction of aldA activity. Both aldA and aldR were expressed in the II/III interzone and zone III of pea nodules. Overexpression of aldA in bacteroids did not alter the ability of pea plants to fix nitrogen, as measured by acetylene reduction, but caused a large reduction in the size and dry weight of plants. This suggests that overexpression of aldA impairs the ability of bacteroids to donate fixed nitrogen that the plant can productively assimilate. We propose that the role of AldA may be to balance the alanine level for optimal functioning of bacteroid metabolism rather than to synthesize alanine as the sole product of N(2) reduction.
Recently, we observed that expression of a pea gene (S64) encoding an oxophytodienoic acid reductase (OPR) was induced by a suppressor of pea defense responses, secreted by the pea pathogen Mycosphaerella pinodes. Because it is known that OPRs are usually encoded by families of homologous genes, we screened for genomic and cDNA clones encoding members of this putative OPR family in pea. We isolated five members of the OPR gene family from a pea genomic DNA library, and amplified six cDNA clones, including S64, by RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase-PCR). Sequencing analysis revealed that S64 corresponds to PsOPR2, and the amino acid sequences of the predicted products of the six OPR-like genes shared more than 80% identity with each other. Based on their sequence similarity, all these OPR-like genes code for OPRs of subgroup I, i.e., enzymes which are not required for jasmonic acid biosynthesis. However, the genes varied in their exon/intron organization and in their promoter sequences. To investigate the expression of each individual OPR-like gene, RT-PCR was performed using gene-specific primers. The results indicated that the OPR-like gene most strongly induced by the inoculation of pea plants with a compatible pathogen and by treatment with the suppressor from M. pinodes was PsOPR2. Furthermore, the ability of the six recombinant OPR-like proteins to reduce a model substrate, 2-cyclohexen-1-one (2-CyHE), was investigated. The results indicated that PsOPR1, 4 and 6 display robust activity, and PsOPR2 has a most remarkable ability to reduce 2-CyHE, whereas PsOPR3 has little and PsOPR5 does not reduce this compound. Thus, the six OPR-like proteins can be classified into four types. Interestingly, the gene structures, expression profiles, and enzymatic activities used to classify each member of the pea OPR-like gene family are clearly correlated, indicating that each member of this OPR-like family has a distinct function.
Photosynthetic signals modulate expression of nuclear genes at the levels of mRNA transcription, mRNA stability, and translation. In transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum), the pea (Pisum sativum) Ferredoxin 1 (Fed-1) mRNA dissociates from polyribosomes and becomes destabilized when photosynthesis is inhibited by photosynthetic electron transport inhibitor 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea. We used polymerase chain reaction suppressive-subtractive hybridization to identify similarly regulated endogenous tobacco genes. This screen identified 14 nuclear-encoded tobacco mRNAs whose light-induced increase in abundance is suppressed in the presence of 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea. Sequence analysis of the cognate cDNAs revealed that nine of the mRNAs encode putative chloroplast-targeted proteins. We asked whether the abundance of these mRNAs was regulated transcriptionally or posttranscriptionally. Of the five mRNAs with sufficient abundance to detect using nuclear run-on assays, we observed transcriptional regulation of alpha-tubulin, thiazole biosynthetic enzyme, and pSKA10 (an unknown gene). Photosystem A subunit L and, to a lesser extent, alpha-tubulin and pSKA10 mRNAs, may also be stabilized in the light. In contrast, Rubisco small subunit mRNA abundance appears to be transcriptionally up-regulated but posttranscriptionally down-regulated in the light. To determine whether, like Fed-1 mRNA, the mRNAs identified in this screen were translationally responsive to light, we characterized the polyribosome association of these mRNAs in the light and after a 15-min dark treatment. A subset of the mRNAs showed dramatic dark-induced polyribosome dissociation, similar to Fed-1 mRNA, and all of the mRNAs showed at least slight polyribosome dissociation. Thus, both posttranscriptional and translational regulation appear to be important mechanisms regulating the expression of many nuclear-encoded mRNAs encoding proteins involved in photosynthesis.
In STS-95 space experiments we have demonstrated that microgravity conditions resulted in automorphosis in etiolated pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Alaska) seedlings (Ueda et al. 1999). Automorphosis-like growth and development in etiolated pea seedlings were also induced under simulated microgravity conditions on a 3-dimensional (3-D) clinostat, epicotyls being the most oriented toward the direction far from the cotyledons. Detail analysis of epicotyl bending revealed that within 36 h after watering, no significant difference in growth direction of epicotyls was observed in between seedlings grown on the 3-D clinostat and under 1 g conditions, differential growth near the cotyledonary node resulting in epicotyl bending of ca. 45 degrees toward the direction far from the cotyledons. Thereafter epicotyls continued to grow almost straightly keeping this orientation on the 3-D clinostat. On the other hand, the growth direction in etiolated seedlings changed to antigravity direction by negative gravitropic response under 1 g conditions. Automorphological epicotyl bending was also phenocopied by the application of auxin polar transport inhibitors such as 9-hydroxyfluorene-9-carboxylic acid, N-(1-naphtyl)phthalamic acid and 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid. These results together with the fact that auxin polar transport activity in etiolated pea epicotyls was substantially reduced in space suggested that reduced auxin polar transport is closely related to automorphosis. Strenuous efforts to learn how gravity contributes to the auxin polar transport in etiolated pea epicotyls in molecular bases resulted in successful identification of PsPIN2 and PsAUX1 encoding putative auxin-efflux and influx carrier proteins, respectively. Based on the results of these gene expression under simulated microgravity conditions, a possible role of PsPIN2 and PsAUX1 genes for auxin polar transport in etiolated pea seedlings will be discussed.
Etiolated pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Alaska) seedlings grown under simulated microgravity conditions on a 3-dimensional clinostat showed automorphosis-like growth and development similar to that observed in true microgravity conditions in space. Application of inhibitors of auxin polar transport phenocopied automorphosis-like growth on 1 g conditions, suggesting that automorophosis is closely related to auxin polar transport. Strenuous efforts to know the relationships between automorphosis and auxin polar transport in pea seedlings at molecular bases resulted in successful identification of PsPIN2 and PsAUX1 encoding putative auxin efflux and influx carrier protein, respectively. Significantly high levels in homology were found on nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences among PsPIN2, PsPIN1 and AtPINs, and between PsAUX1 and AtAUX1. Expression of PsPIN1 and PsAUX1 genes in etiolated pea seedlings grown on the clinostat were substantially affected, but that of PsPIN2 was not. Roles of these genes in auxin polar transport and automorphosis of etiolated pea seedlings are also described.
PPF1 encodes a putative calcium ion carrier that affects the flowering time of transgenic Arabidopsis by modulating Ca(2+) storage capacities in chloroplasts of a plant cell. In the current work, we found that differential expression of PPF1 might affect processes of programmed cell death (PCD) since DNA fragmentation was detected in senescencing apical buds of long day-grown G2 pea (Pisum sativum L.) plants, but was not in non-senescencing short day-grown counterparts at all growth stages. An animal inhibitor of caspase-activated DNase (ICAD) homologue was detected in short day-grown plant continuously throughout the whole experiment and only in early stages of long day-grown pre-floral G2 pea apical buds. DNA fragmentation was significantly inhibited in apical meristems of transgenic Arabidopsis that over-expressed the PPF1 gene when compared to that of either wild-type control or to PPF1 (-) plants. The expression of ICAD-like protein decreased to undetectable level at 45 dpg in apical tissues of PPF1 (-) Arabidopsis, which was much earlier than that found in PPF1 (+) or wild-type controls. In epidermal cells of PPF1 (-) plants, we recorded significantly earlier calcium transient prior to PCD. We suggest that the expression of PPF1, a chloroplast localized Ca(2+) ion channel may inhibit programmed cell death in apical meristems of flowering plants by keeping a low cytoplasmic calcium content that might inhibit DNA fragmentation in plant cells.
Plants are constantly subjected to environmental changes and have developed various defence mechanisms to facilitate their continued existence. Pisum sativum plants were exposed to low levels of UV-B radiation and ELIP (early light-inducible proteins) mRNA, with a probable protective function, was rapidly and strongly induced during this type of stress. To our knowledge, this is the only photosynthetic gene that is up-regulated following exposure to UV-B, and this result has to be compared with studies predominantly reporting down-regulation by UV-B of genes encoding proteins localised in the plastid. The expression pattern of ELIP mRNA in pea was also investigated during salt, wounding and ozone stress. The transcript levels of ELIP were induced after the salt and wounding treatments but not during ozone fumigation.
Fe uptake in dicotyledonous plants is mediated by a root plasma membrane-bound ferric reductase that reduces extracellular Fe(III)-chelates, releasing Fe(2+) ions, which are then absorbed via a metal ion transporter. We previously showed that Fe deficiency induces an increased capacity to absorb Fe and other micronutrient and heavy metals such as Zn(2+) and Cd(2+) into pea ( Pisum sativum L.) roots [Cohen et al. (1998) Plant Physiol 116:1063-1072). To investigate the molecular basis for this phenomenon, an Fe-regulated transporter that is a homologue of the Arabidopsis IRT1 micronutrient transporter was isolated from pea seedlings. This cDNA clone, designated RIT1 for root iron transporter, encodes a 348 amino acid polypeptide with eight putative membrane-spanning domains that is induced under Fe deficiency and can functionally complement yeast mutants defective in high- and low-affinity Fe transport. Chelate buffer techniques were used to control Fe(2+) in the uptake solution at nanomolar activities representative of those found in the rhizosphere, and radiotracer methodologies were employed to show that RIT1 is a very high-affinity (59)Fe(2+) uptake system ( K(m) =54-93 nM). Additionally, radiotracer ((65)Zn, (109)Cd) flux techniques were used to show that RIT can also mediate a lower affinity Zn and Cd influx ( K(m) of 4 and 100 microM, for Zn(2+) and Cd(2+), respectively). These findings suggest that, in typical agricultural soils, RIT1 functions primarily as a high-affinity Fe(2+) transporter that mediates root Fe acquisition. This is consistent with recent findings with Arabidopsis IRT1 knockout mutants that strongly suggest that this transporter plays a key role in root Fe uptake and nutrition. However, the ability of RIT1 to facilitate Zn and Cd uptake when these metals are present at elevated concentrations suggests that RIT1 may be one pathway for the entry of toxic metals into the food chain. Furthermore, the finding that plant Fe deficiency status may promote heavy metal uptake via increased expression of this transporter could have implications both for human nutrition and also for phytoremediation, the use of terrestrial plants to sequester toxic metals from contaminated soil.
Brassinosteroids (BRs) are growth-promoting plant steroid hormones, and in garden pea (Pisum sativum L.), the lka mutant is defective in BR perception. Here, we show that LKA encodes P. sativum BRI1 (PsBRI1), a homolog of BRI1, which is the Arabidopsis leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase/BR receptor. PsBRI1 was isolated by screening a pea cDNA library using Arabidopsis BRI1 cDNA as the probe. PsBRI1 is predicted to encode a 1188-amino-acid protein that has 78% similarity with Arabidopsis BRI1. Sequence analysis of PsBRI1 in the lka mutant led to the identification of a missense mutation that converts the highly conserved aspartic acid residue to asparagine, which is located in the leucine-rich repeat, just before the island domain that may bind BR or a BR-protein complex. The mutation identified in PsBRI1 co-segregated with the semi-erectoide lka phenotype. Transcript analysis of LKA/PsBRI1 indicates that it is ubiquitously expressed in pea and that the expression was downregulated by exogenous BR. The lka mutant was then utilized in further studies to analyze the independent actions of BR and gibberellin (GA) through the characterization of BR response on GA mutants and GA response on BR mutants.
Phosphoinositide-specific phospholipases C (PLCs) play an important role in many cellular responses and are involved in the production of secondary messengers. We report the cloning and characterization of a cDNA encoding a PLC-delta from Pisum sativum (PsPLC). The amino acid sequence deduced from the cDNA sequence showed 75-80% identity to other plant PLCs and contained the characteristic X, Y and C2 domains. The genomic PLC clone from pea was also characterized and found to contain eight introns. The protein was expressed in Escherichia coli, but the recombinant product did not show any phosphoinositide (PI)- or phosphatidylinositol-4, 5-bisphosphate (PIP2)-specific activity, despite having all known residues required for such activity, and in spite of the fact that its C2 domain was shown to bind calcium. Under similar in vitro assay conditions the recombinant tobacco PLC used as a control showed calcium-dependent PI- and PIP2-specific activity. Though PsPLC did not show enzyme activity in vitro, and may represent an inactive form of PLC, such as those reported in some mammalian systems, analysis of the transcription of PsPLC showed that the gene is expressed in all pea tissues, and is regulated by light in a tissue-specific manner. Roots showed higher expression of PsPLC than shoots. A putative PsPLC promoter region (792 bp) was also cloned and found to contain root-specific and light-responsive cis elements, suggesting that this form of PLC may be involved in important functions in plants.
Genes in the TERMINAL FLOWER1 (TFL1)/CENTRORADIALIS family are important key regulatory genes involved in the control of flowering time and floral architecture in several different plant species. To understand the functions of TFL1 homologs in pea, we isolated three TFL1 homologs, which we have designated PsTFL1a, PsTFL1b, and PsTFL1c. By genetic mapping and sequencing of mutant alleles, we demonstrate that PsTFL1a corresponds to the DETERMINATE (DET) gene and PsTFL1c corresponds to the LATE FLOWERING (LF) gene. DET acts to maintain the indeterminacy of the apical meristem during flowering, and consistent with this role, DET expression is limited to the shoot apex after floral initiation. LF delays the induction of flowering by lengthening the vegetative phase, and allelic variation at the LF locus is an important component of natural variation for flowering time in pea. The most severe class of alleles flowers early and carries either a deletion of the entire PsTFL1c gene or an amino acid substitution. Other natural and induced alleles for LF, with an intermediate flowering time phenotype, present no changes in the PsTFL1c amino acid sequence but affect LF transcript level in the shoot apex: low LF transcript levels are correlated with early flowering, and high LF transcript levels are correlated with late flowering. Thus, different TFL1 homologs control two distinct aspects of plant development in pea, whereas a single gene, TFL1, performs both functions in Arabidopsis. These results show that different species have evolved different strategies to control key developmental transitions and also that the genetic basis for natural variation in flowering time may differ among plant species.
The MtSucS1 gene encodes a sucrose synthase (EC 2.4.1.13) in the model legume Medicago truncatula. To determine the expression pattern of this gene in different organs and in particular during root endosymbioses, we transformed M. truncatula with specific regions of MtSucS1 fused to the gusAint reporter gene. These fusions directed an induction to the vasculature of leaves, stems, and roots as well as to flowers, developing seeds, young pods, and germinating seedlings. In root nodules, strong promoter activity occurred in the infected cells of the nitrogen-fixing zone but was additionally observed in the meristematic region, the prefixing zone, and the inner cortex, including the vasculature. Concerning endomycorrhizal roots, the MtSucS1 promoter mediated strongest expression in cortical cells harboring arbuscules. Specifically in highly colonized root sections, GUS-staining was furthermore detected in the surrounding cortical cells, irrespective of a direct contact with fungal structures. In accordance with the presence of an orthologous PsSus1 gene, we observed a comparable regulation of MtSucS1 expression in the grain legume Pisum sativum in response to microbial symbionts. Unlike other members of the MtSucS gene family, the presence of rhizobial or Glomus microsymbionts significantly altered and enhanced MtSucS1 gene expression, leading us to propose that MtSucS1 is involved in generating sink-strength, not only in root nodules but also in mycorrhizal roots.
Plants belonging to the legume family develop nitrogen-fixing root nodules in symbiosis with bacteria commonly known as rhizobia. The legume host encodes all of the functions necessary to build the specialized symbiotic organ, the nodule, but the process is elicited by the bacteria. Molecular communication initiates the interaction, and signals, usually flavones, secreted by the legume root induce the bacteria to produce a lipochitin-oligosaccharide signal molecule (Nod-factor), which in turn triggers the plant organogenic process. An important determinant of bacterial host specificity is the structure of the Nod-factor, suggesting that a plant receptor is involved in signal perception and signal transduction initiating the plant developmental response. Here we describe the cloning of a putative Nod-factor receptor kinase gene (NFR5) from Lotus japonicus. NFR5 is essential for Nod-factor perception and encodes an unusual transmembrane serine/threonine receptor-like kinase required for the earliest detectable plant responses to bacteria and Nod-factor. The extracellular domain of the putative receptor has three modules with similarity to LysM domains known from peptidoglycan-binding proteins and chitinases. Together with an atypical kinase domain structure this characterizes an unusual receptor-like kinase.
An iron-superoxide dismutase (FeSOD) with an unusual subcellular localization, VuFeSOD, has been purified from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) nodules and leaves. The enzyme has two identical subunits of 27 kD that are not covalently bound. Comparison of its N-terminal sequence (NVAGINLL) with the cDNA-derived amino acid sequence showed that VuFeSOD is synthesized as a precursor with seven additional amino acids. The mature protein was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant enzyme was used to generate a polyclonal monospecific antibody. Phylogenetic and immunological data demonstrate that there are at least two types of FeSODs in plants. An enzyme homologous to VuFeSOD is present in soybean (Glycine max) and common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) nodules but not in alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and pea (Pisum sativum) nodules. The latter two species also contain FeSODs in the leaves and nodules, but the enzymes are presumably localized to the chloroplasts and plastids. In contrast, immunoblots of the soluble nodule fraction and immunoelectron microscopy of cryo-processed nodule sections demonstrate that VuFeSOD is localized to the cytosol. Immunoblot analysis showed that the content of VuFeSOD protein increases in senescent nodules with active leghemoglobin degradation, suggesting a direct or indirect (free radical-mediated) role of the released Fe in enzyme induction. Therefore, contrary to the widely held view, FeSODs in plants are not restricted to the chloroplasts and may become an important defensive mechanism against the oxidative stress associated with senescence.
The chloroplasts of many plants contain not only the photosynthetic electron transport chain, but also two enzymes, Ndh and IMMUTANS, which might participate in a chloroplast respiratory chain. IMMUTANS encodes a protein with strong similarities to the mitochondrial alternative oxidase and hence is likely to be a plastoquinol oxidase. The Ndh complex is a homologue of complex I of mitochondria and eubacteria and is considered to be a plastoquinone reductase. As yet these components have not been purified to homogeneity and their expression and orientation within the thylakoid remain ill-defined. Here we show that the IMMUTANS protein, like the Ndh complex, is a minor component of the thylakoid membrane and is localised to the stromal lamellae. Protease digestion of intact and broken thylakoids indicates that both Ndh and IMMUTANS are orientated towards the stromal phase of the membrane in Spinacia oleracea L. Such an orientation is consistent with a role for the Ndh complex in the energisation of the plastid membrane. In expression studies we show that IMMUTANS and the Ndh complex are present throughout the development of both Pisum sativum L. cv Progress No. 9 and Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. leaves, from early expansion to early senescence. Interestingly, both the Ndh complex and the IMMUTANS protein accumulate within etiolated leaf tissue, lacking the photosystem II complex, consistent with roles outside photosynthetic electron transport.
Alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and Arabidopsis were used as model systems to examine molecular mechanisms underlying developmental effects of a microsomal UDP-glucuronosyltransferase-encoding gene from pea (Pisum sativum; PsUGT1). Alfalfa expressing PsUGT1 antisense mRNA under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter exhibited delayed root emergence, reduced root growth, and increased lateral root development. The timing of root emergence in wild-type and antisense plants was correlated with the transient accumulation of auxin at the site of root emergence. Cell suspension cultures derived from the antisense alfalfa plants exhibited a delay in cell cycle from 24-h in the wild-type plants to 48-h in the antisense plants. PsUGT1::uidA was introduced into Arabidopsis to demonstrate that, as in alfalfa and pea, PsUGT1 expression occurs in regions of active cell division. This includes the root cap and root apical meristems, leaf primordia, tips of older leaves, and the transition zone between the hypocotyl and the root. Expression of PsUGT1::uidA colocalized with the expression of the auxin-responding reporter DR5::uidA. Co-expression of DR5::uidA in transgenic Arabidopsis lines expressing CaMV35S::PsUGT1 revealed that ectopic expression of CaMV35S::PsUGT1 is correlated with a change in endogenous auxin gradients in roots. Roots of ecotype Columbia expressing CaMV35S::PsUGT1 exhibited distinctive responses to exogenous naphthalene acetic acid. Completion of the life cycle occurred in 4 to 6 weeks compared with 6 to 7 weeks for wild-type Columbia. Inhibition of endogenous ethylene did not correct this early senescence phenotype.
Plant defensins are small cysteine-rich proteins that present high activity against fungi and bacteria and inhibition of insect proteases and alpha-amylases. Here, we present the expression in Pichia pastoris, purification and characterization of the recombinant Pisum sativum defensin 1(rPsd1); a pea defensin which presents four disulfide bridges and high antifungal activity. For this, we had to overcome the inefficiency of the STE13 protease. Our strategy was to clone the corresponding cDNA directly in-frame with a variant of the widely used secretion signal from the Saccharomyces cerevisiae alpha-mating factor, devoid of the STE13 proteolytic signal cleavage sequence. Using an optimized expression protocol, which included a buffered basal salt media formulation, it was possible to obtain about 63.0mg/L of 15N-labeled and unlabeled rPsd1. The recombinants were purified to homogeneity by gel filtration chromatography, followed by reversed-phase HPLC. Mass spectrometry of native and recombinant Psd1 revealed that the protein expressed heterologously was post-translationally processed to the same mature protein as the native one. Circular dichroism and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy analysis indicated that the recombinant protein had the same folding when compared to native Psd1. In addition, the rPsd1 was fully active against Aspergillus niger, if compared with native Psd1. To our knowledge, this is the first heterologous expression of a fully active plant defensin in a high-yield flask.
Light signaling has been demonstrated to be an important factor for plant growth and development; however, its role in the regulation of DNA replication and cell cycle has just started to be unraveled. In this work, we have demonstrated that the TOP2 promoter of Pisum sativum (pea) is activated by a broad spectrum of light including far-red light (FR), red light (RL) and blue light (BL). Deletion analyses of the TOP2 promoter in transformed plants, Arabidopsis thaliana and Nicotiana tobaccum (tobacco), define a minimal promoter region that is induced by RL, FR and BL, and is essential and sufficient for light-mediated activation. The minimal promoter of TOP2 follows the phytochrome- mediated low-fluence response similar to complex light regulated promoters. DNA-protein interaction studies reveal the presence of a DNA binding activity specific to a 106 bp region of the minimal promoter that is crucial for light-mediated activation. These results altogether indicate a direct involvement of light signaling in the regulation of expression of TOP2, one of the components of the DNA replication/cell cycle machinery.
The rhizobial infection of legumes has the most stringent demand toward Nod factor structure of all host responses, and therefore a specific Nod factor entry receptor has been proposed. The SYM2 gene identified in certain ecotypes of pea (Pisum sativum) is a good candidate for such an entry receptor. We exploited the close phylogenetic relationship of pea and the model legume Medicago truncatula to identify genes specifically involved in rhizobial infection. The SYM2 orthologous region of M. truncatula contains 15 putative receptor-like genes, of which 7 are LysM domain-containing receptor-like kinases (LYKs). Using reverse genetics in M. truncatula, we show that two LYK genes are specifically involved in infection thread formation. This, as well as the properties of the LysM domains, strongly suggests that they are Nod factor entry receptors.
The goal of this study was to explore the impact of the plant growth regulator auxin on the development of compound leaves in pea. Wildtype ( WT) plantlets, as well as those of two leaf mutants, acacia ( tl) and tendrilled acacia ( uni-tac) of pea ( Pisum sativum L.), were grown on media containing the auxin-transport inhibitors 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid (TIBA), N-(1-naphthyl)phthalamic acid (NPA), or the auxin antagonist, p-chlorophenoxyisobutyric acid (PCIB). The resulting plantlets were carefully analyzed morphologically, by scanning electron microscopy and for Uni gene expression using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Auxin transport was measured in WT leaf parts using [(14)C]indole-3-acetic acid. Relative Uni gene expression was determined in shoot tips of a range of leaf-form mutants. Morphological abnormalities were observed for all genotypes examined. The terminal tendrils on WT plants were converted to leaflets, stubs or were aborted. The number of pinna pairs produced on leaves was reduced, with the distal forms being eliminated before the proximal ones. Some leaves were converted to simple, including tri-and bilobed, forms. These treatments phenocopy the uni-tac and unifoliata ( uni) mutants of pea. In the most extreme situations, leaf blades were completely lost leaving only a pair of stipules or scale leaves. Polar auxin transport was basipetal for all leaf parts. Uni gene expression in shoot tips was significantly reduced in 60 microM NPA and TIBA. Uni mRNA was more abundant in tl, af and af tl and reduced in the uni mutants compared to WT. These results indicate that an auxin gradient plays fundamental roles in controlling morphogenesis in the compound leaves of pea and specifically it: (i). is the driving force for leaf growth and pinna determination; (ii). is necessary for pinna initiation; and (iii). controls subsequent pinna development.
A cluster of pathogenicity genes ( PEP1, PEP2, PDA1, PEP5), termed the pea pathogenicity ( PEP) cluster and located on a 1.6-Mb conditionally dispensable (CD) chromosome, was identified in the fungal pathogen Nectria haematococca. Studies determined that the expression of PDA1 is induced in both infected pea tissues and in vitro by the phytoalexin pisatin. The present study reports the use of real-time quantitative RT-PCR to monitor the expression of each PEP gene and PDA1. In mycelia actively growing in culture, the mRNA levels of PEP1, PEP5 and PDA1 were very low and the PEP2 transcript was undetectable. In planta, PDA1 and PEP2 were strongly induced, while PEP1 and PEP5 were moderately induced. Starvation slightly enhanced the expression of PEP1, PDA1 and PEP5, while the expression of PEP2 remained undetectable. Exposure to pisatin in culture stimulated the expression of PDA1 and each PEP gene to a similar level as occurred in planta. In addition, all four pathogenicity genes displayed similar temporal patterns of expression in planta and in vitro, consistent with a coordinated regulation of these genes by pisatin during pea pathogenesis. In the flanking regions of the PEP cluster, six open reading frames (ORFs) were identified and all were expressed during infection of pea. Comparison of the codon preferences of these ORFs and seven additional genes from CD chromosomes with the codon preferences of 21 genes from other chromosomes revealed there is a codon bias that correlates with the source of the genes. This difference in codon bias is consistent with the hypothesis that genes on the CD chromosome have a different origin from genes of normal chromosomes, suggesting that horizontal gene transfer may have played a role in the evolution of pathogenesis in N. haematococca.
It is widely believed that ferrochelatase (protoheme ferrolyase, EC 4.99.1.1), which catalyzes the insertion of ferrous ion into protoporphyrin IX to form protoheme, exists in both plastids and mitochondria of higher plants. By in vitro import assay with isolated pea (Pisum sativum L.) organelles, it has been proposed that one of two isoforms of ferrochelatase (type 1) is dual-targeted into both plastids and mitochondria, and functions for heme biosynthesis in the both organelles. Recently, however, mitochondrial targeting of ferrochelatase is being disputed since pea mitochondria appeared to accept a variety of chloroplast proteins including the type-1 ferrochelatase of Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. To clarify the precise subcellular localization of ferrochelatase in higher plants, here we investigated the subcellular localization of two types of ferrochelatase (CsFeC1 and CsFeC2) in cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.). In cotyledons, a significant level of specific ferrochelatase activity was detected in thylakoid membranes, but only a trace level of activity was detectable in mitochondria. Western blot analysis with specific antibodies showed that anti-CsFeC2 antiserum cross-reacted with plastids in photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic tissues. Anti-CsFeC1 did not cross-react with mitochondria, but CsFeC1 was clearly detectable in plastids from non-photosynthetic tissues. In situ transient-expression assays using green fluorescent protein demonstrated that, as well as CsFeC2, the N-terminal transit peptide of CsFeC1 targeted the fusion protein solely into plastids, but not into mitochondria. These results demonstrated that in cucumber both CsFeC1 and CsFeC2 are solely targeted into plastids, but not into mitochondria. Screening of a cucumber genomic or cDNA library did not allow any other ferrochelatase homologous gene to be isolated. The data presented here imply the reconsideration of mitochondrial heme biosynthesis in higher plants.
Elongation factor subunit eEF1Bbeta (formerly EF-1beta in plants and EF-1delta in animals) was identified and cloned in a screen for proteins from pea that interact with a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK). CDKs are enzymes that regulate progression through meiotic and mitotic cell cycles in eukaryotes. eEF1Bbeta and the related protein eEF1Balpha (formerly EF-1beta' in plants and EF-1beta in animals and fungi) can catalyze GTP/GDP exchange on the G-protein eEF1A (formerly EF-1alpha in plants, animals and fungi) during the elongation phase of protein synthesis in eukaryotes. Recombinant Cdc2 and its native homologues from pea extracts associated both in vitro and in vivo with eEF1Bbeta. A Cdc2-cyclin B complex phosphorylated recombinant plant eEF1Bbetas, but not eEF1Balpha. These interactions between CDK and eEF1Bbeta prompted investigations into the in vivo consequences of this relationship. Expression of cDNAs encoding rice or pea eEF1Bbeta subunits failed to complement a Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant deleted for the eEF1Balpha gene, as was previously observed for the human eEF1Bbeta. However, replacement of Thr91, the sole consensus CDK phosphorylation site in pea eEF1Bbeta, with alanine allowed the pea protein to substitute for eEF1Balpha function in vivo. In addition, this rescued strain was severely cold sensitive, and more sensitive to translational inhibitors than wild-type yeast. Taken together, these results suggest a physiological connection between the cyclin-dependent class of kinases and a translational elongation factor in mitotic cells, and provide the first in vivo evidence that an altered form of eEF1Bbeta can serve as the guanine nucleotide exchange factor for eEF1A.
The expression of nodA and dctA genes of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae has been studied in mutant nodules of pea (Pisum sativum L.), blocked at the following developmental stages: infection thread development inside the nodule (Itn); infection droplet differentiation (Idd); bacteroid differentiation after endocytosis (Bad); and nodule persistence (Nop).  With the use of reporter fusions to these symbiotic bacterial genes it was shown that both nodA and dctA were expressed at all developmental stages, with a pattern similar to that of constitutive, symbiosis-unrelated genes.  As well as two constitutively expressed genes, both nodA and dctA genes seemed to be subjected to gradual downregulation in nodule bacteria, correlating with the stage of bacteroid differentiation reached. No such effect was observed for the symbiotic, oxygen-regulated fixN gene. The bacteroid development stage also appeared to be related to the ability of bacteria that have been subjected to endocytosis to resume free-living vegetative growth.  The results support the suggestion that bacteroid differentiation into a nitrogen-fixing, organelle-like form, is a gradual process involving several stages, each controlled by different plant genes.
TheAAIR genomic DNA of G2 pea (Pisum sativum L.) was amplified by PCR method. Sequence analysis showed that it was composed of 8 introns and 9 exons with three of the introns containing specific A/T-rich endogenous promoter regions. Molecular hybridization experiments revealed that the expression of AAIR remained at a high level before and after flowering if grown in short day growth chambers. However, when grown under long day conditions, the level of AAIR expression declined very rapidly after flowering. This variation of AAIR expression is consistent with the change of enzymatic activity of acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase. Functional complementation experiments carried out using an acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase deficientE. coli strain showed that these cells could not grow on M9 medium without addition of branched-chain amino acids unless they were transformed with theAAIR expression vector. Further study revealed that overexpression of the peaAAIR cDNA in acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase deficientE. coli strain enhanced significantly its branched-chain amino acid biosynthetic capacity. Results from gel shift experiments showed that fractions of pea nuclear protein extracts could bind specifically to some A/T rich regions present in introns of theAAIR gene. The A/T-rich-region-binding proteins remained at a steady level in the non-senescing apical buds of short-day grown G2 pea. In the rapid-senescing apical buds of long-day grown G2 pea, the levels of these proteins declined rapidly after flower initiation. Therefore, the nuclear protein binding capacities to endogenous promoter regions may constitute an important mechanism to regulateAAIR gene expression.
The translocon of the inner envelope membrane of chloroplasts (Tic) mediates the late events in the translocation of nucleus-encoded preproteins into chloroplasts. Tic110 is a major integral membrane component of active Tic complexes and has been proposed to function as a docking site for translocation-associated stromal factors and as a component of the protein-conducting channel. To investigate the various proposed functions of Tic110, we have investigated the structure, topology, and activities of a 97.5-kDa fragment of Arabidopsis Tic110 (atTic110) lacking only the amino-terminal transmembrane segments. The protein was expressed both in Escherichia coli and Arabidopsis as a stable, soluble protein with a high alpha-helical content. Binding studies demonstrate that a region of the atTic110-soluble domain selectively associates with chloroplast preproteins at the late stages of membrane translocation. These data support the hypothesis that the bulk of Tic110 extends into the chloroplast stroma and suggest that the domain forms a docking site for preproteins as they emerge from the Tic translocon.
The NADPH/NADP-thioredoxin (Trx) reductase (NTR)/Trx system (NTS) is a redox system that plays a posttranslational regulatory role by reducing protein targets involved in crucial cellular processes in microorganisms and animals. In plants, the system includes several h type Trx isoforms and has been shown to intervene in reserve mobilization during early seedling growth of cereals. To determine whether NTS was operational during germination of legume seeds and which Trx h isoforms could be implicated, Trx h isoforms expression was monitored in germinating pea (Pisum sativum cv Baccara) seeds, together with the amount of NTR and NADPH. Two new isoforms were identified: Trx h3, similar to the two isoforms already described in pea but not expressed in seeds; and the more divergent isoform, Trx h4. Active recombinant proteins were produced in Escherichia coli and used to raise specific antibodies. The expression of new isoforms was analyzed at both mRNA and protein levels. The lack of correlation between mRNA and protein abundances suggests the occurrence of posttranscriptional regulation. Trx h3 protein amount remained constant in both axes and cotyledons of dry and imbibed seeds but then decreased 2 d after radicle protrusion. In contrast, Trx h4 was only expressed in axes of dry and imbibed seeds but not in germinated seeds or in seedlings, therefore appearing as closely linked to germination. The presence of NTR and NADPH in seeds suggests that NTS could be functional during germination. The possible role of Trx h3 and h4 in this context is discussed.
We identified a dwarf transgenic hybrid poplar (Populus tremula x Populus alba) after screening of 627 independent activation-tagged transgenic lines in tissue culture, greenhouse, and field environments. The cause of the phenotype was a hyperactivated gene encoding GA 2-oxidase (GA2ox), the major gibberellin (GA) catabolic enzyme in plants. The mutation resulted from insertion of a strong transcriptional enhancer near the transcription start site. Overexpression of the poplar GA2ox gene (PtaGA2ox1) caused hyperaccumulation of mRNA transcripts, quantitative shifts in the spectrum of GAs, and similarity in phenotype to transgenic poplars that overexpress a bean (Phaseolus coccineus) GA2ox gene. The poplar PtaGA2ox1 sequence was most closely related to PsGA2ox2 from pea (Pisum sativum) and two poorly known GA2oxs from Arabidopsis (AtGA2ox4 and AtGA2ox5). The dwarf phenotype was reversible through gibberellic acid application to the shoot apex. Transgenic approaches to producing semidwarf trees for use in arboriculture, horticulture, and forestry could have significant economic and environmental benefits, including altered fiber and fruit production, greater ease of management, and reduced risk of spread in wild populations.
The putative functions of NDP (nucleoside diaphosphate) kinases from various organisms focusing to fungi and plants are described. The biochemical reactions catalyzed by NDP kinase are as follows. (i) Phosphotransferring activity from mainly ATP to cognate NDPs generating nucleoside triphosphates (NTPs). (ii) Autophosphorylation activity from ATP and GTP. (iii) Protein kinase (phosphotransferring) activity phosphorylating such as myelin basic protein. NDP kinase could function to provide NTPs as a housekeeping enzyme. However, recent works proved possible functions of the NDP kinases in the processes of signal transduction in various organisms, as described below. 1) By use of the extracts of the mycelia of a filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa blue-light irradiation could increase the phosphorylation of a 15-kDa protein, which was purified and identified to be NDP kinase (NDK-1). By use of the etiolated seedlings of Pisum sativum cv Alaska and Oryza sativa red-light irradiation of intact plants increased the phosphorylation of NDP kinase. However, successive irradiation by red-far-red reversed the reaction, indicating that phytochrome-mediated light signals are transduced to the phosphorylation of NDP kinase. 2) NDP kinase localizing in mitochondria is encoded by nuclear genome and different from those localized in cytoplasm. NDP kinase in mitochondria formed a complex with succinyl CoA synthetase. 3) In Spinicia oleraceae two different NDP kinases were detected in the chloroplast, and in Pisum sativum two forms of NDP kinase originated from single species of mRNA could be detected in the choloroplast. However, the function of NDP kinases in the choloroplast is not yet known. 4) In Neurospora crassa a Pro72His mutation in NDP kinase (ndk-1Pro72His) deficient in the autophosphorylation and protein kinase activity resulted in lacking the light-induced polarity of perithecia. In wild-type directional light irradiation parallel to the solid medium resulted in the formation of the perithecial beak at the top of perithecia, which was designated as "light-induced polarity of perithecia." In wild-type in darkness the beak was formed at random places on perithecia, and in ndkPro72His mutant the perithecial beak was formed at random places even under directional light illumination. The introduction of genomic DNA and cDNA for ndk-1 demonstrated that the wild-type DNAs suppressed the mutant phenotype. With all these results except for the demonstration in Neurospora, most of the phenomena are elusive and should be solved in the molecular levels concerning with NDP kinases.
The PDA1 gene of the filamentous fungus Nectria haematococca MPVI (anamorph: Fusarium solani) encodes pisatin demethylase, a cytochrome P450. Pisatin is a fungistatic isoflavonoid produced by garden pea (Pisum sativum), a host for this fungus. Pisatin demethylase detoxifies pisatin and functions as a virulence factor for this fungus. Pisatin induces PDA1 expression both in cultured mycelia as well as during pathogenesis on pea. The regulatory element within PDA1 that provides pisatin-responsive expression was identified using a combination of in vivo functional analysis and in vitro binding analysis. The 40 bp pisatin-responsive element is located 635 bp upstream of the PDA1 transcription start site. This element was sufficient to provide strong pisatin-induced expression to a minimal promoter in vivo and was required for pisatin regulation of the PDA1 promoter. A gene encoding a DNA-binding protein specific to this 40 bp element was isolated from a N. haematococca cDNA library using the yeast one-hybrid screen. The cloned gene possesses sequence motifs found in the binuclear zinc (Cys 6-Zn 2) family of transcription factors unique to fungi. The results suggest that it is a regulator of this fungal cytochrome P450 gene and may provide pisatin-responsive regulation.
Shoot branching is inhibited by auxin transported down the stem from the shoot apex. Auxin does not accumulate in inhibited buds and so must act indirectly. We show that mutations in the MAX4 gene of Arabidopsis result in increased and auxin-resistant bud growth. Increased branching in max4 shoots is restored to wild type by grafting to wild-type rootstocks, suggesting that MAX4 is required to produce a mobile branch-inhibiting signal, acting downstream of auxin. A similar role has been proposed for the pea gene, RMS1. Accordingly, MAX4 and RMS1 were found to encode orthologous, auxin-inducible members of the polyene dioxygenase family.
The light-regulated differential expression of pea chloroplast and cytosolic fructose-1,6-bisphosphatases (FBPase) was investigated using enzyme activity assay, immunoblot, and Northern blot analyses. The enzyme activities of both chloroplast and cytosolic FBPases gradually increased under continuous white light illumination, although the increase in chloroplast FBPase was more drastic. Northern and immunoblot analyses also indicated that light stimulated the expression of both enzymes. Enzyme activity and the transcript levels of both enzymes gradually decreased under the dark treatment, although protein levels were unchanged for up to 24 h following the initiation of culture in the dark, indicating that reversible modifications of the enzymes may occur during the transition from light to dark (or the reverse). Light pulse experiments using blue (420 nm) and red/far-red (660/730 nm) light were carried out to analyze the photoreceptors related to the light-mediated expression of both enzymes. Expression of the chloroplast enzyme was very sensitive to red or far-red light pulses-it was induced by red light, but suppressed by far-red light pulses, as determined by enzyme activity, immunoblot, and Northern blot analyses, suggesting that red light signaling is involved in the control of chloroplast FBPase expression. However, cytosolic FBPase was virtually insensitive to blue or red/far-red light pulses in terms of enzyme activity, as determined by protein and transcript levels, indicating that cytosolic enzyme expression is not directly regulated by light signals. Instead, the expression of the cytosolic enzyme may be closely related to photosynthetic energy conversion accompanied by continuous white light irradiation.
The influence of the transcriptional enhancer of the pea plastocyanin gene (PetE) on the acetylation of histones was examined with chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments using antibodies that recognize acetylated or nonacetylated histones H3 and H4. In transgenic tobacco plants containing the pea PetE promoter fused to uidA, both acetylated and nonacetylated histones H3 and H4 were present on the integrated transgene. Linking the PetE enhancer to the transgene resulted in increased beta-glucuronidase activity and increased amounts of acetylated histones H3 and H4 present on the promoter, suggesting that the enhancer may increase transcription by mediating the acetylation of histones. Trichostatin A and sodium butyrate, which are potent inhibitors of histone deacetylases (HDAs), activated expression from the PetE promoter by fourfold, with a concomitant increase in the acetylation states of histones H3 and H4, as determined by ChIP, indicating that the acetylation of histones has a direct positive effect on transcription. The HDA inhibitors did not increase expression from the PetE promoter when it was linked to the enhancer, consistent with preexisting hyperacetylated histones on the transgene. Mapping of histone acetylation states along the reporter gene indicated that the histones H3 and H4 associated with the promoter and the 5' region of uidA were hyperacetylated in the presence of the PetE enhancer. The PetE enhancer bound to isolated tobacco nuclear matrices in vitro and was associated with the nuclear matrix in nuclei isolated from transgenic tobacco plants. These results suggest that the pea PetE enhancer activates transcription by associating with the nuclear matrix, mediating the acetylation of histones on the promoter and the nearby coding region and resulting in an altered chromatin structure.
An alpha-L-fucosidase purified from pea (Pisum sativum L. cv Alaska) epicotyl was previously described as a cell wall enzyme of 20 kDa that hydrolyses terminal alpha-L-fucosidic linkages from oligosaccharide fragments of xyloglucan. cDNA and genomic copies were further isolated and sequenced. The predicted product of the cDNA and the genomic clone (fuc1), was a 20 kDa protein containing a signal peptide and five cysteines. This was the first alpha-L-fucosidase gene to be cloned in plants but its fucosidase activity has not been demonstrated. Here, our biochemical and immuno analyses suggest that fuc1 does not encode an alpha-L-fucosidase. Pea fuc1 expressed in Escherichia coli, insect cells and Arabidopsis thaliana produced recombinant proteins without alpha-L-fucosidase activity. Pea plants had endogenous alpha-L-fucosidase activity, but the enzyme was not recognised by an antibody produced against recombinant FUC1 protein expressed in E. coli. In contrast, the antibody immunoprecipitated a 20 kDa protein which was inactive. By chromatographic analysis of pea protein extracts, we separated alpha-L-fucosidase-active fractions from the 20 kDa protein fractions. We conclude that the alpha-L-fucosidase activity is not attributable to the 20 kDa FUC1 protein. A new function for fuc1 gene product, now named PIP20 (for protease inhibitor from pea) is proposed.
Transcriptome analysis of Medicago truncatula nodules has led to the discovery of a gene family named NCR (nodule-specific cysteine rich) with more than 300 members. The encoded polypeptides were short (60-90 amino acids), carried a conserved signal peptide, and, except for a conserved cysteine motif, displayed otherwise extensive sequence divergence. Family members were found in pea (Pisum sativum), broad bean (Vicia faba), white clover (Trifolium repens), and Galega orientalis but not in other plants, including other legumes, suggesting that the family might be specific for galegoid legumes forming indeterminate nodules. Gene expression of all family members was restricted to nodules except for two, also expressed in mycorrhizal roots. NCR genes exhibited distinct temporal and spatial expression patterns in nodules and, thus, were coupled to different stages of development. The signal peptide targeted the polypeptides in the secretory pathway, as shown by green fluorescent protein fusions expressed in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. Coregulation of certain NCR genes with genes coding for a potentially secreted calmodulin-like protein and for a signal peptide peptidase suggests a concerted action in nodule development. Potential functions of the NCR polypeptides in cell-to-cell signaling and creation of a defense system are discussed.
Rhizobium leguminosarum fur mutants were unaffected in Fe-dependent regulation of several operons that specify different Fe uptake systems, yet cloned R. leguminosarum fur partially corrected an Escherichia coli fur mutant and R. leguminosarum Fur protein bound to canonical fur boxes. The lack of a phenotype in fur mutants is not due to functional redundancy with Irr, another member of the Fur superfamily found in the rhizobia, since irr fur double mutants are also unaffected in Fe-responsive regulation of several operons involved in Fe uptake. Neither Irr nor Fur is needed for symbiotic N(2) fixation on peas. As in Bradyrhizobium japonicum, irr mutants accumulated protoporphyrin IX. R. leguminosarum irr is not regulated by Fur and its Irr protein lacks the motif needed for haem-dependent post-translational modification that occurs in B. japonicum Irr. The similarities and differences in the Fur superfamily in the rhizobia and other Gram-negative bacteria are discussed.
Full-length cDNA encoding pea cytoplasmic fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (cyFBPase) was cloned from a pea cDNA library. The cloned cDNA was introduced into the Escherichia coli expression vector pET-15b. The recombinant cyFBPase was expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells in a soluble form and purified to homogeneity by Ni(+)-NTA affinity chromatography. The identity of the recombinant cyFBPase was confirmed by SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis using a polyclonal anti-His tag antibody. The recombinant cyFBPase was active at neutral pH ranges (6.6-9.0) and thermostable as other cyFBPases. The activation energy (E(a)) and Arrhenius frequency factor were 17.4 kcal/mol and 2.6 x 10(12)/s, respectively. The K(M) and V(max) values of the recombinant enzyme were calculated as 10.47 microM and 109 micromol/min, respectively. In case of removal of histidine tag, the K(M) value was calculated as 5.03 microM. The recombinant enzyme was non-competitively and competitively inhibited by AMP and fructose-2,6-bisphosphate, respectively.
To understand further how pollination, seeds, auxin (4-chloroindole-3-acetic acid [4-Cl-IAA]), and gibberellins (GAs) regulate GA biosynthesis in pea (Pisum sativum) fruit, we studied expression of the gene PsGA3ox1 that codes for the enzyme that converts GA(20) to biologically active GA(1) using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis. PsGA3ox1 mRNA levels were minimally detectable in prepollinated pericarps and ovules (-2 d after anthesis [DAA]), increased dramatically after pollination (0 DAA), then decreased by 1 DAA. Seed PsGA3ox1 mRNA levels increased at 4 DAA and again 8 to 12 DAA, when seed development was rapid. Pericarp PsGA3ox1 mRNA levels peaked coincidentally with rapid pod diameter expansion (6-10 DAA) to accommodate the growing seeds. The effects of seeds and hormones on the expression of pericarp PsGA3ox1 were investigated over a 24-h treatment period. Pericarp PsGA3ox1 mRNA levels gradually increased from 2 to 3 DAA when seeds were present; however, when the seeds were removed, the pericarp transcript levels dramatically declined. When 2-DAA deseeded pericarps were treated with 4-Cl-IAA, PsGA3ox1 mRNA levels peaked 4 h after hormone treatment (270-fold increase), then decreased. PsGA3ox1 mRNA levels in deseeded pericarps treated with indole-3-acetic acid or GA(3) were the same or lower than deseeded controls. These data show that PsGA3ox1 is expressed and developmentally regulated in pea pericarps and seeds. These data also show that pericarp PsGA3ox1 expression is hormonally regulated and suggest that the conversion of GA(20) to GA(1) occurs in the pericarp and is regulated by the presence of seeds and 4-Cl-IAA for fruit growth.
Comparative phenotypic analysis of pea (Pisum sativum) sym35 mutants and Lotus japonicus nin mutants suggested a similar function for the PsSym35 and LjNin genes in early stages of root nodule formation. Both the pea and L. japonicus mutants are non-nodulating but normal in their arbuscular mycorrhizal association. Both are characterized by excessive root hair curling in response to the bacterial microsymbiont, lack of infection thread initiation, and absence of cortical cell divisions. To investigate the molecular basis for the similarity, we cloned and sequenced the PsNin gene, taking advantage of sequence information from the previously cloned LjNin gene. An RFLP analysis on recombinant inbred lines mapped PsNin to the same chromosome arm as the PsSym35 locus and direct evidence demonstrating that PsNin is the PsSym35 gene was subsequently obtained by cosegregation analysis and sequencing of three independent Pssym35 mutant alleles. L. japonicus and pea root nodules develop through different organogenic pathways, so it was of interest to compare the expression of the two orthologous genes during nodule formation. Overall, a similar developmental regulation of the PsNin and LjNin genes was shown by the transcriptional activation in root nodules of L. japonicus and pea. In the indeterminate pea nodules, PsNin is highly expressed in the meristematic cells of zone I and in the cells of infection zone II, corroborating expression of LjNin in determinate nodule primordia. At the protein level, seven domains, including the putative DNA binding/dimerization RWP-RK motif and the PB1 heterodimerization domain, are conserved between the LjNIN and PsNIN proteins.
A cDNA clone encoding a serine carboxypeptidase (PsCP), isolated from young fruits of Pisum sativum L., was used to study the temporal and spatial expression and hormonal regulation of serine carboxypeptidase during reproductive and vegetative development. In unpollinated pea ovaries PsCP transcript levels decreased during senescence. However, during early fruit development, PsCP transcript were accumulated in both pericarp and seeds, preferentially in the nucellus, with a polar distribution at the chalazal region of the embryo sac, suggesting a role in seed development. PsCP transcript levels increased also when fruit set was induced in unpollinated ovaries by gibberellins, although the distribution was uniform. PsCP expression was also induced by auxins but not cytokinins, indicating a selective hormonal regulation of PsCP transcription. Localization of PsCP transcript after pollination parallel reported changes in gibberellin distribution, suggesting that PsCP transcription in developing fruits and seeds is induced by gibberellins. PsCP is also expressed in developing seedlings but not in cotyledons, suggesting that it is not involved in the mobilization of storage materials. PsCP transcripts were suppressed by treatment of seedlings with paclobutrazol and restored by gibberellic acid (GA3) treatment. In addition, PsCP transcript levels decreased in etiolated pea seedlings when they were exposed to continuous light but not when exposed to light in the presence of GA3. These results indicate that PsCP transcript accumulation is induced by gibberellins in developing seedlings. This is the first report of a serine carboxypeptidase-like gene induced by gibberellins in reproductive and vegetative developing tissues in dicotyledoneous plants.
An antifungal protein with a novel N-terminal sequence GVGAAYGCFG and a molecular mass of 31 kDa was isolated from the legumes of the sugar snap pea Pisum sativum var. macrocarpon. The protein, designated pisumin, exhibited antifungal activity against Coprinus comatus and Pleurotus ostreatus and much weaker activity against Fusarium oxysporum and Rhizoctonia solani. Pisumin inhibited cell-free translation in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate system with an IC(50) of 6 microM. Pisumin was similar to other leguminous antifungal proteins in that it was adsorbed on Affi-gel blue gel and CM-Sepharose.
In pea (Pisum sativum L.) leaves, manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) is mainly localized in mitochondria as well as in peroxisomes. In this work, the effect of leaf senescence on the peroxisomal and mitochondrial Mn-SOD was studied in detached leaves from pea plants which were incubated in the dark at 25 degrees C for 3-11 d. Northern blots hybridized with a cDNA encoding mitochondrial Mn-SOD from pea leaves and a mitochondrial Mn-SOD transit peptide-specific probe showed increased Mn-SOD transcript levels during leaf senescence, due in part to in creased mitochondrial Mn-SOD mRNA. Recombinantly-expressed mitochondrial Mn-SOD was used to raise polyclonal antibodies which cross-reacted with Mn-SOD in peroxisomes purified from pea leaves. Western blot assays of crude extracts with the antibodies to pea mitochondrial Mn-SOD showed that the levels of total Mn-SOD protein gradually increased with leaf senescence. By native PAGE, the total Mn-SOD activity of pea leaves increased with senescence. EM immunocytochemistry was used to distinguish mitochondrial and peroxisomal Mn-SOD in senescent leaves. Increased Mn-SOD labelling in mitochondria was intensified, whereas the immunogold labelling of peroxisomes did not change with senescence. Overall, these results show that mitochondrial and peroxisomal Mn-SOD expression is regulated differently. The expression of mitochondrial Mn-SOD is induced during the senescence of pea leaves, whereas peroxisomal Mn-SOD could be post-translationally activated. Previously described results showing decreased mitochondrial Mn-SOD activity and increased peroxisomal Mn-SOD activity may be reflective of post-translational events regulating enzymatic activity during leaf senescence.
Level of free polyamines, their key metabolic enzymes, and other features related to ageing were examined during stipule and pod wall development in pea (Pisum sativum). Free polyamine titre (per unit fresh mass) in both the organs, the specific activities of arginine decarboxylase and ornithine decarboxylase in the pod wall, gradually decreased with maturation. In stipule, these enzymes attained peak activity at 15 days after pod emergence and declined thereafter. Ornithine decarboxylase activity was greater in pod wall than in stipule; while, arginine decarboxylase activity was higher in stipule. Activity of degradative enzyme diamine oxidase increased with the onset of senescence in both the organs. Chlorophyll and electrical conductance had a inverse relationship throughout the experimental period, whereas, the chlorophyll content was directly related with polyamine levels in both stipule and pod wall during aging. On the other hand, protein and RNA contents were positively correlated with free polyamines throughout the test period in stipule, but in the pod wall this was true only for the later stages of development.
To investigate gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis in mature tissue of pea (Pisum sativum L.) in the absence of potentially GA-producing meristematic tissue we grafted wild-type scions to rootstocks of the GA-deficient ls-1 mutant and later decapitated the shoot. After 2 d, decapitated shoots contained as much GA
PPF1 is a gibberellin-induced, vegetative growth-specific gene, first isolated from short-day (SD)-grown G2 pea plants. In the current work, we found that transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing the PPF1 gene (PPF1 (+)) flowered much later and had a significantly longer lifespan compared to control plants, whereas suppression of this gene (PPF1 (-)) resulted in a very rapid reproductive cycle. Western blotting analyses of PPF1 (+) and (-) plant lines revealed a positive correlation between the amount of antibody-reactive protein and the time of flowering. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) co-expression assays showed that the PPF1 protein is likely localized in chloroplast membranes. Transgenic expression of PPF1 affected the calcium storage capacities since chloroplasts isolated from PPF1 (+) plants contained high Ca2+ levels while chloroplasts of PPF1 (-) plants contained very low amounts of calcium ion. Using Novikoff human hepatoma cells, we demonstrated that expression of PPF1 leads to a significant inward calcium ion current that was absent in untransformed cells. We conclude that, as a putative calcium ion carrier, PPF1 affects the flowering time of higher plants by modulating Ca2+ storage capacity within chloroplasts.
The gibberellin (GA)-deficient dwarf na mutant in pea (Pisum sativum) has severely reduced internode elongation, reduced root growth, and decreased leaflet size. However, the seeds develop normally. Two genes, PsKAO1 and PsKAO2, encoding cytochrome P450 monooxygenases of the subfamily CYP88A were isolated. Both PsKAO1 and PsKAO2 had ent-kaurenoic acid oxidase (KAO) activity, catalyzing the three steps of the GA biosynthetic pathway from ent-kaurenoic acid to GA(12) when expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). In addition to the intermediates ent-7alpha-hydroxykaurenoic acid and GA(12)-aldehyde, some additional products of the pea KAO activity were detected, including ent-6alpha,7alpha-dihydroxykaurenoic acid and 7beta-hydroxykaurenolide. The NA gene encodes PsKAO1, because in two independent mutant alleles, na-1 and na-2, PsKAO1 had altered sequences and the five-base deletion in PsKAO1 associated with the na-1 allele cosegregated with the dwarf na phenotype. PsKAO1 was expressed in the stem, apical bud, leaf, pod, and root, organs in which GA levels have previously been shown to be reduced in na plants. PsKAO2 was expressed only in seeds and this may explain the normal seed development and normal GA biosynthesis in seeds of na plants.
A glutamine synthetase gene ( GS15) coding for soybean cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS1) fused to a constitutive promoter (CaMV 35S), a putative nodule-specific promoter (LBC(3)) and a putative root-specific promoter (rolD) was transformed into Pisum sativum L. cv. Greenfeast. Four lines with single copies of GS15 (one 35S-GS15 line, one LBC (3) -GS15 line, and two rolD-GS15 lines) were tested for the expression of GS15, levels of GS1, GS activity, N accumulation, N(2) fixation, and plant growth at different levels of nitrate. Enhanced levels of GS1 were detected in leaves of three transformed lines (the 35S-GS15 and rolD-GS15 transformants), in nodules of three lines (the LBC (3) -GS15 and rolD-GS15 transformants), and in roots of all four transformants. Despite increased levels of GS1 in leaves and nodules, there were no differences in GS activity in these tissues or in whole-plant N content, N(2) fixation, or biomass accumulation among all the transgenic lines and the wild-type control. However, the rolD-GS15 transformants, which displayed the highest levels of GS1 in the roots of all the transformants, had significantly higher GS activity in roots than the wild type. In one of the rolD-GS15 transformed lines (Line 8), increased root GS activity resulted in a lower N content and biomass accumulation, supporting the findings of earlier studies with Lotus japonicus (Limami et al. 1999 ). However, N content and biomass accumulation was not negatively affected in the other rolD-GS15 transformant (Line 9) and, in fact, these parameters were positively affected in the 0.1 mM treatment. These findings indicate that overexpression of GS15 in various tissues of pea does not consistently result in increases in GS activity. The current study also indicates that the increase in root GS activity is not always consistent with decreases in plant N and biomass accumulation and that further investigation of the relationship between root GS activity and growth responses is warranted.
Antibiotics are widely used to monitor signalling cascades within a plant cell, for example between the nucleus and chloroplasts, and to study the function of the photosynthetic machinery. In the present study, we attempted to test various antibiotics with respect to their expected modes of function and also to monitor their possible side effects on metabolic processes in mature leaves of pea (Pisum sativum L.). Streptomycin, despite its reported prokaryotic nature, prevented translation not only in the chloroplast, but also in the cytosol. Application of puromycin, an inhibitor of protein synthesis in both the pro- and eukaryotes, resulted in severe photoinhibition of photosystem II upon illumination, yet had no effect on plastid translation, thus implying a severe side effect on plastid metabolism. Prokaryotic-type translation inhibitors lincomycin, spectinomycin and erythromycin blocked translation in the chloroplast without any direct effects on cytoplasmic protein synthesis. More detailed studies with lincomycin, however, revealed a strong modulation of the expression of nuclear-encoded genes by slowing down the transcription rate of photosynthesis-related Lhcb and RbcS genes, and furthermore, lincomycin clearly decreased the phosphorylation level of the LHCII proteins.
Legume seed development is closely related to metabolism and nutrient transport. To analyse this relationship, a combination of biochemical, histological and transgenic approaches was used. Sugars within tissue sections have been quantitatively measured by metabolic imaging. During cotyledon differentiation glucose gradients emerge related to a particular cell type, with higher concentrations in non-differentiated premature regions. Sucrose in creases at the beginning of maturation in a layer underneath the outer epidermis expressing a sucrose transporter. Sucrose distribution is initially controlled by uptake activity and the permeability within the parenchyma and, later on, also by differences in growth and starch accumulation. Increased sucrose levels are accompanied by increased levels of sucrose synthase and ADP-Glc pyrophosphorylase mRNAs, but carbon flux into starch is initially still low. Rates increase at a stage when hexose concentrations become low, allowing increased flux through the sucrose synthase pathway. Transfer cell formation represents a regional specification of the cotyledonary epidermis for embryo nutrition characterized by increased transport-active cell surfaces and up-regulated expression of transport-related genes. The E2748 pea seed mutation blocks epidermal differentiation into transfer cells and leads to the loss of epidermal cell identity. Embryos with impaired epidermis cannot tolerate elevated levels of sucrose and respond with disorganized growth. The E2748 gene product is required for transfer cell formation in developing cotyledons with no other function during plant growth. Seed coat permeability provides a hypoxic environment for embryo development. However, at maturity, seed energy supply is not limited indicating fundamental developmental and metabolic adaptations. Results from transgenic seeds show that altered expression of single genes induces complex and unexpected changes. In AGP-antisense seeds the block in starch synthesis leads to pleiotropic effects of water and nitrogen content and induces temporal changes in seed development.
Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) coupled with confocal microscopy has been used to reveal the interphase chromosome organization in plants. In wheat and several other related species, we have shown that the interphase chromosomes are in a very well-defined organization, with centromeres and telomeres located at opposite sides of the nuclear envelope-a classic Rabl configuration. In transgenic wheat lines, FISH analysis of metaphase chromosomes has shown that multiple transgene copies can be integrated along a single chromosome, with large regions of intervening genomic sequence. These multiple copies are often colocalized in interphase, suggesting either an ectopic association or a highly reproducible interphase chromatin configuration. Bromo-uridine (BrU) incorporation has been used to label transcription sites in the nucleolus. Using pea root tissue, we have combined BrU incorporation with preembedding 1-nm gold detection to image the nucleolar transcription sites by electron microscopy. This has revealed many distinct elongated clusters of silver-gold particles. These clusters are 200-300 nm in length and are thicker at one end than the other. We suggest that each cluster corresponds to a single transcribed gene. Serial sectioning of several entire nucleoli has enabled the reconstruction of all the nucleolar transcription sites, and we have estimated that there are 200-300 transcribed genes per nucleolus.
The expression of nuclear genes encoding photosynthesis-related proteins is regulated by signals from plastids. To investigate how the pea PetE gene encoding plastocyanin is regulated by plastid signals, the effects of norflurazon, lincomycin and 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea (DCMU), specific inhibitors of plastid-located processes generating plastid signals, have been examined. RNA-gel blot analysis of 7-day-old pea and tobacco seedlings containing the pea PetE gene showed that treatment with norflurazon and lincomycin, but not DCMU, decreased the accumulation of transcripts of pea PetE and endogenous Lhcb1 genes. Analysis of chimeric PetE gene constructs in tobacco seedlings showed that an intact PetE mRNA 5' terminus and elements within the PetE coding region were required to confer sensitivity to norflurazon and lincomycin, suggesting post-transcriptional regulation. Analysis of 4-week-old tobacco plants containing chimeric PetE constructs showed that DCMU treatment decreased the accumulation of pea PetE and Lhcb1 transcripts, but had opposite effects on the transcription of the genes in nuclear run-on assays. DCMU upregulated transcription from the pea PetE promoter whereas transcription of tobacco Lhcb1 genes was decreased. These experiments provide evidence for multiple plastid signals operating at different developmental stages and affecting transcriptional and post-transcriptional processes regulating expression of the pea PetE gene.
Gibberellins (GAs) are tetracyclic diterpenoids that are essential endogenous regulators of plant growth and development. GA levels within the plant are regulated by a homeostatic mechanism that includes changes in the expression of a family of GA-inactivating enzymes known as GA 2-oxidases. Ectopic expression of a pea GA 2-oxidase2 cDNA caused seed abortion in Arabidopsis, extending and confirming previous observations obtained with GA-deficient mutants of pea, suggesting that GAs have an essential role in seed development. A new physiological role for GAs in pollen tube growth in vivo also has been identified. The growth of pollen tubes carrying the 35S:2ox2 transgene was reduced relative to that of nontransgenic pollen, and this phenotype could be reversed partially by GA application in vitro or by combining with spy-5, a mutation that increases GA response. Treatment of wild-type pollen tubes with an inhibitor of GA biosynthesis in vitro also suggested that GAs are required for normal pollen tube growth. These results extend the known physiological roles of GAs in Arabidopsis development and suggest that GAs are required for normal pollen tube growth, a physiological role for GAs that has not been established previously.
Uridine diphospho-D-glucuronate carboxy-lyase (UDP-D-xylose synthase; EC 4.1.1.35), which catalyzes the conversion of UDP-D-glucuronate to UDP-D-xylose, was purified to apparent homogenity from pea (Pisum sativum L.) seedlings. The pH optimum for enzyme activity was around 5-6, and the activity was not affected by exogeneously supplied NAD+ and NADH. The purified enzyme had a molecular weight of 250 kDa and consisted of 42 kDa polypeptides. Based on the amino acid sequence, a probe (400 bp) was prepared with degenerate primers by a reverse transcriptase-PCR. Using this probe, a clone encoding 346 amino acid residues was screened from a pea cDNA library. The recombinant protein expressed in Escherichia coli catalyzed conversion of UDP-D-glucuronate to UDP-D-xylose, confirming that the isolated clone encoded UDP-D-glucuronate carboxy-lyase.
Implication of the ubiquitous, highly conserved, Ca2+ sensor calmodulin (CaM) in pea seed germination has been investigated. Mass spectrometry analysis of purified CaM revealed the coexistence in seeds of three protein isoforms, diverging from each other by single amino acid substitution in the N-terminal alpha-helix. CaM was shown to be encoded by a small multigenic family, and full-length cDNAs of the three isoforms (PsCaM1, 2 and 3) were isolated to allow the design of specific primers in more divergent 5' and 3' untranslated regions. Expression studies, performed by semiquantitative RT-PCR, demonstrated differential expression patterns of the three transcripts during germination. PsCaM1 and 2 were detected at different levels in dry axes and cotyledons, and they accumulated during imbibition and prior to radicle protrusion. In contrast, PsCaM3 appeared only upon radicle protrusion, then gradually increased in both tissues. To characterise the biochemical properties of the CaM isoforms, functional analyses were conducted in vitro using recombinant Strep-tagged proteins (CaM1-ST, CaM2-ST and CaM3-ST) expressed in Escherichia coli. Gel mobility shift assays revealed that CaM1-ST exhibited a stoichiometric binding of a synthetic amphiphilic CaM kinase II peptide while CaM2-ST and CaM3-ST affinities for the same peptide were reduced. Affinity differences were also observed for CaM isoform binding to Trp-3, an idealised helical CaM-binding peptide. However, the three proteins activated in the same way the CaM-dependent pea NAD kinase. Finally, the significance of the single substitutions upon CaM interaction with its targets is discussed in a structural context.
In legumes, root nodule organogenesis is activated in response to morphogenic lipochitin oligosaccharides that are synthesized by bacteria, commonly known as rhizobia. Successful symbiotic interaction results in the formation of highly specialized organs called root nodules, which provide a unique environment for symbiotic nitrogen fixation. In wild-type plants the number of nodules is regulated by a signalling mechanism integrating environmental and developmental cues to arrest most rhizobial infections within the susceptible zone of the root. Furthermore, a feedback mechanism controls the temporal and spatial susceptibility to infection of the root system. This mechanism is referred to as autoregulation of nodulation, as earlier nodulation events inhibit nodulation of younger root tissues. Lotus japonicus plants homozygous for a mutation in the hypernodulation aberrant root (har1) locus escape this regulation and form an excessive number of nodules. Here we report the molecular cloning and expression analysis of the HAR1 gene and the pea orthologue, Pisum sativum, SYM29. HAR1 encodes a putative serine/threonine receptor kinase, which is required for shoot-controlled regulation of root growth, nodule number, and for nitrate sensitivity of symbiotic development.
When roots of pea seedlings were inoculated uniformly with spores of Nectria haematocca or other pea pathogenic fungi, more than 90% developed lesions in the region of elongation within 3 days. More mature regions of most roots as well as the tip showed no visible signs of infection. Yet, microscopic observation revealed that 'mantles,' comprised of fungal hyphae intermeshed with populations of border cells, covered the tips of most roots. After physical detachment of the mantle, the underlying tip of most roots was found to be free of infection. Mantle-covered root tips did not respond to invasion of their border cells by activation of known defense genes unless there was invasion of the tip itself, as revealed by the presence of a lesion. Concomitant with the activation of defense genes was the induction of a cell-wall degrading enzyme whose expression is a marker for renewed production of border cells. Mantle formation did not occur in response to nonpathogens. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that border cells serve as a host-specific 'decoy' that protects root meristems by inhibiting fungal infection of the root tip.
Suppressors produced by Mycosphaerella pinodes are glycopeptides to block pea defense responses induced by elicitors. A clone, S64, was isolated as cDNA for suppressor-inducible gene from pea epicotyls. The treatment of pea epicotyls with suppressor alone induced an increase of S64 mRNA within 1 h, and it reached a maximum level at 3 h after treatment. The induction was not affected by application of the elicitor, indicating that the suppressor has a dominant action to regulate S64 gene expression. S64 was also induced by inoculation with a virulent pathogen, M. pinodes, but not by inoculation with a non-pathogen, Ascochyta rabiei, nor by treatment with fungal elicitor. The deduced structure of S64 showed high homology to 12-oxophytodienoic acid reductase (OPR) in Arabidopsis thaliana. A recombinant protein derived from S64 had OPR activity, suggesting compatibility-specific activation of the octadecanoid pathway in plants. Treatment with jasmonic acid (JA) or methyl jasmonic acid, end products of the octadecanoid pathway, inhibited the elicitor-induced accumulation of PAL mRNA in pea. These results indicate that the suppressor-induced S64 gene expression leads to the production of JA or related compounds, which might contribute to the establishment of compatibility by inhibiting the phenylpropanoid biosynthetic pathway.
The role of the proto-oncogene Kit expression during gonadal development, then in differentiated spermatogonia has been thoroughly established. The present study was designed to investigate the consequences of a partial defect in Kit gene expression on sperm fertilizing ability, using Kit haplodeficient mice (kitW-lacZ/+). Same inbred mice (kit+/+) were used as controls. Epididymal sperm characteristics and in vivo fertility were assessed, then in vitro-fertilization experiments were carried out for mice of both genotypes. Epididymal sperm count was drastically reduced, and sperm motility was also decreased in kitW-lacZ/+ compared with kit+/+ males. Both in vivo or in vitro fertility were greatly reduced in kitW-lacZ/+ compared with kit+/+ males. By contrast, the fertility of kitW-lacZ/+ females was apparently unaffected. Additionally, a higher number of spermatozoa with undetected acrosomal contents was revealed by fluorescein isothiocyanate-labelled Pisum sativum agglutinin acrosomal staining after epididymal sperm retrieval in kitW-lacZ/+ mice, whereas no difference was observed after induction of acrosomal reaction in mice of either genotype. Ultra-structural data confirmed the higher frequency of abnormal acrosome in spermatozoa of kitW-lacZ/+ mice. Thus, sperm production is impaired in Kit haplodeficient mice both on a quantitative and a qualitative basis. Finally, we show that one single copy of Kit gene is not sufficient to maintain genuine fertility in male mice.
The pea chloroplast fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase) gene was cloned from a pea genomic library and sequenced. The gene contained three introns and four exons. Both in vitro and in vivo analyses of the promoter region of the gene were carried out simultaneously to elucidate the mechanisms of light-mediated gene expression. Two light-responsive elements were identified in gel mobility shift assays: a GT-1-like sequence for the binding of a GT-1-like factor (termed pea factor 1; PF1) and a binding site for a dark-specific factor (termed pea factor 2; PF2). The binding affinity of PF1 was higher in light-grown peas than in dark-grown peas and was affected by phosphorylation. The binding site was located at nucleotides (nt) -326 to -341. PF2 binding was dark-specific and the binding region was located upstream of the PF1-binding site (nt -492 to -412). In vivo experiments with transgenic tobacco plants suggested that the region between nt -411 and -272 contained a PF1-binding site that promoted light-mediated expression of the pea chloroplast FBPase. In contrast, the 81-bp region between nt -492 and -412, which is located further upstream than the PF1-binding site, negatively regulated light-mediated expression of FBPase. Moreover, activation of gene expression by the region (nt -411 to -272) contained a PF1-binding site that was sensitive to red-light irradiation, suggesting that the expression of the chloroplast FBPase was regulated by the phytochrome system. Interestingly, the binding region for the dark-specific factor (PF2; nt -492 to -412) not only repressed gene expression in the dark, but also acted as a light-dependent activating element of the chloroplast FBPase gene.
The inheritance of the dehiscent pod character was investigated in two recombinant inbred populations using a simplified correlation analysis. The approach identified three regions on the pea genome that affect the expression of pod dehiscence. The region on linkage group III corresponded to the expected position of Dpo, a gene known to influence pod dehiscence. A locus on linkage group V appeared to have a slightly smaller effect on expression of the phenotype. The third region was observed only in one cross, had a greater effect than Dpo, and was postulated to be yellow pod allele at the Gp locus
Raffinose (O-alpha- D-galactopyranosyl-(1-->6)- O-alpha- D-glucopyranosyl-(1<-->2)- O-beta- D-fructofuranoside) is a widespread oligosaccharide in plant seeds and other tissues. Raffinose synthase (EC 2.4.1.82) is the key enzyme that channels sucrose into the raffinose oligosaccharide pathway. We here report on the isolation of a cDNA encoding for raffinose synthase from maturing pea ( Pisum sativum L.) seeds. The coding region of the cDNA was expressed in Spodoptera frugiperda Sf21 insect cells. The recombinant enzyme, a protein of glycoside hydrolase family 36, displayed similar kinetic properties to raffinose synthase partially purified from maturing seeds by anion-exchange and size-exclusion chromatography. Apart from the natural galactosyl donor galactinol ( O-alpha- D-galactopyranosyl-(1-->1)- L- myo-inositol), p-nitrophenyl alpha- D-galactopyranoside, an artificial substrate, was utilized as a galactosyl donor. An equilibrium constant of 4.1 was determined for the galactosyl transfer reaction from galactinol to sucrose. Steady-state kinetic analysis suggested that raffinose synthase is a transglycosidase operating by a ping-pong reaction mechanism and may also act as a glycoside hydrolase. The enzyme was strongly inhibited by 1-deoxygalactonojirimycin, a potent inhibitor for alpha-galactosidases (EC 3.2.1.22). The physiological implications of these observations are discussed.
Mitochondrial AAA metalloproteases play a fundamental role in mitochondrial biogenesis and function. They have been identified in yeast and animals but not yet in plants. This work describes the isolation and sequence analysis of the full-length cDNA from the pea (Pisum sativum) with significant homology to the yeast matrix AAA (m-AAA) protease. The product of this clone was imported into isolated pea mitochondria where it was processed to its mature form (PsFtsH). We have shown that the central region of PsFtsH containing the chaperone domain is exposed to the matrix space. Furthermore, we have demonstrated that the pea protease can complement respiration deficiency in the yta10 and/or yta12 null yeast mutants, indicating that the plant protein can compensate for the loss of at least some of the important m-AAA functions in yeast. Based on biochemical experiments using isolated pea mitochondria, we propose that PsFtsH-like m-AAA is involved in the accumulation of the subunit 9 of the ATP synthase in the mitochondrial membrane.
Cytochrome P450 enzymes of the closely related CYP90 and CYP85 families catalyze essential oxidative reactions in the biosynthesis of brassinosteroid (BR) hormones. Arabidopsis CYP90B1/DWF4 and CYP90A1/CPD are responsible for respective C-22 and C-23 hydroxylation of the steroid side chain and CYP85A1 catalyzes C-6 oxidation of 6-deoxo intermediates, whereas the functions of CYP90C1/ROT3, CYP90D1, and CYP85A2 are still unknown. Semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analyses show that transcript levels of CYP85 and CYP90 genes are down-regulated by brassinolide, the end product of the BR biosynthesis pathway. Feedback control of the CYP90C1, CYP90D1, and CYP85A2 genes by brassinolide suggests that the corresponding enzymes might also participate in BR synthesis. CYP85 and CYP90 mRNAs show strong and transient accumulation during the 1st week of seedling development, as well as characteristic organ-specific distribution. Transcripts of CYP90A1 and CYP85A2 are preferentially represented in shoots and CYP90C1, CYP90D1, and CYP85A1 mRNAs are more abundant in roots, whereas CYP90B1 is ubiquitously expressed. Remarkably, the spatial pattern of CYP90A1 expression is maintained in the BR-insensitive cbb2 mutant, indicating the independence of organ-specific and BR-dependent regulation. Quantitative gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis of endogenous BRs in shoots and roots of Arabidopsis, pea (Pisum sativum), and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) reveal similar partitioning patterns of BR intermediates in these species. Inverse correlation between CYP90A1/CPD transcript levels and the amounts of the CYP90A1 substrate 6-deoxocathasterone in shoots and roots suggests that transcriptional regulation plays an important role in controlling BR biosynthesis.
A hairpin-type messenger RNA pseudoknot from pea enation mosaic virus RNA1 (PEMV-1) regulates the efficiency of programmed -1 ribosomal frameshifting. The solution structure and 15N relaxation rates reveal that the PEMV-1 pseudoknot is a compact-folded structure composed almost entirely of RNA triple helix. A three nucleotide reverse turn in loop 1 positions a protonated cytidine, C(10), in the correct orientation to form an A((n-1)).C(+).G-C(n) major groove base quadruple, like that found in the beet western yellows virus pseudoknot and the hepatitis delta virus ribozyme, despite distinct structural contexts. A novel loop 2-loop 1 A.U Hoogsteen base-pair stacks on the C(10)(+).G(28) base-pair of the A(12).C(10)(+).G(28)-C(13) quadruple and forms a wedge between the pseudoknot stems stabilizing a bent and over-rotated global conformation. Substitution of key nucleotides that stabilize the unique conformation of the PEMV-1 pseudoknot greatly reduces ribosomal frameshifting efficacy.
A full-length cDNA encoding light-activated chloroplast NADP-malate dehydrogenase (NADP-MDH) (EC 1.1.1.82) from pea (Pisum sativum L.) was introduced in the sense and antisense orientation into tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.). Transgenic plants with decreased or increased expression levels were obtained. Because of substantial age-dependent differences in individual leaves of a single plant, standardization of NADP-MDH levels was required first. Then, extent and stability of over- or under-expression of Nmdh, the gene encoding NADP-MDH, was characterized in the various transformants. Frequently, cosuppression effects were observed, indicating sufficient homology between the endogenous tobacco and the heterologous pea gene. Analysis of the T1 and T2 progeny of a series of independent transgenic lines revealed that NADP-MDH capacity ranged between 10% and [greater than or equal to]10-fold compared with the wild type. Under ambient conditions whole-plant development, growth period, and fertility were unaffected by NADP-MDH reduction to 20% of the wild-type level; below this threshold plant growth was retarded. A positive growth effect was registered in young plants with stably enhanced NADP-MDH levels within a defined developmental window.
Amino acid transport by Rhizobium leguminosarum is dominated by two ABC transporters, the general amino acid permease (Aap) and the branched-chain amino acid permease (Bra). However, mutation of these transporters does not prevent this organism from utilizing alanine for growth. An R. leguminosarum permease (MctP) has been identified which is required for optimal growth on alanine as a sole carbon and nitrogen source. Characterization of MctP confirmed that it transports alanine (K(m) = 0.56 mM) and other monocarboxylates such as lactate and pyruvate (K(m) = 4.4 and 3.8 micro M, respectively). Uptake inhibition studies indicate that propionate, butyrate, alpha-hydroxybutyrate, and acetate are also transported by MctP, with the apparent affinity for solutes demonstrating a preference for C3-monocarboxylates. MctP has significant sequence similarity to members of the sodium/solute symporter family. However, sequence comparisons suggest that it is the first characterized permease of a new subfamily of transporters. While transport via MctP was inhibited by CCCP, it was not apparently affected by the concentration of sodium. In contrast, glutamate uptake in R. leguminosarum by the Escherichia coli GltS system did require sodium, which suggests that MctP may be proton coupled. Uncharacterized members of this new subfamily have been identified in a broad taxonomic range of species, including proteobacteria of the beta-subdivision, gram-positive bacteria, and archaea. A two-component sensor-regulator (MctSR), encoded by genes adjacent to mctP, is required for activation of mctP expression.
Acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) synthetases (ACSs, EC 6.2.1.3) catalyze the formation of fatty acyl-CoAs from free fatty acid, ATP, and CoA. Essentially all de novo fatty acid synthesis occurs in the plastid. Fatty acids destined for membrane glycerolipid and triacylglycerol synthesis in the endoplasmic reticulum must be first activated to acyl-CoAs via an ACS. Within a family of nine ACS genes from Arabidopsis, we identified a chloroplast isoform, LACS9. LACS9 is highly expressed in developing seeds and young rosette leaves. Both in vitro chloroplast import assays and transient expression of a green fluorescent protein fusion indicated that the LACS9 protein is localized in the plastid envelope. A T-DNA knockout mutant (lacs9-1) was identified by reverse genetics and these mutant plants were indistinguishable from wild type in growth and appearance. Analysis of leaf lipids provided no evidence for compromised export of acyl groups from chloroplasts. However, direct assays demonstrated that lacs9-1 plants contained only 10% of the chloroplast long-chain ACS activity found for wild type. The residual long-chain ACS activity in mutant chloroplasts was comparable with calculated rates of fatty acid synthesis. Although another isozyme contributes to the activation of fatty acids during their export from the chloroplast, LACS9 is a major chloroplast ACS.
Amyloses with distinct molecular masses are found in the starch of pea embryos compared with the starch of pea leaves. In pea embryos, a granule-bound starch synthase protein (GBSSIa) is required for the synthesis of a significant portion of the amylose. However, this protein seems to be insignificant in the synthesis of amylose in pea leaves. cDNA clones encoding a second isoform of GBSSI, GBSSIb, have been isolated from pea leaves. Comparison of GBSSIa and GBSSIb activities shows them to have distinct properties. These differences have been confirmed by the expression of GBSSIa and GBSSIb in the amylose-free mutant of potato. GBSSIa and GBSSIb make distinct forms of amylose that differ in their molecular mass. These differences in product specificity, coupled with differences in the tissues in which GBSSIa and GBSSIb are most active, explain the distinct forms of amylose found in different tissues of pea. The shorter form of amylose formed by GBSSIa confers less susceptibility to the retrogradation of starch pastes than the amylose formed by GBSSIb. The product specificity of GBSSIa could provide beneficial attributes to starches for food and nonfood uses.
In the lamprey, adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) and melanotropins (MSHs) are produced from two distinct precursors, proopiocortin (POC) and proopiomelanotropin (POM). Both POC and POM have been suggested to be glycoproteins. The present study aimed to demonstrate glycoconjugates in ACTH and MSH cells in the pituitary of adult sea lampreys (Petromyzon marinus) by means of a lectin histochemistry. A total of 19 kinds of lectins were tested. ACTH cells were distributed in both the rostral pars distalis and the proximal pars distalis, and were stained positively with N-acetylglucosamine binding lectins (i.e., succinylated wheat germ agglutinin), N-acetylgalactosamine binding lectins (i.e., soybean agglutinin), D-mannose binding lectins (i.e., Lens culinaris agglutinin), and D-galactose binding lectins (i.e., Erythrina cristagall lectin). MSH cells were distributed in the pars intermedia, and were stained with N-acetylgalactosamine binding lectins (i.e., Dolichos biflorus agglutinin), D-mannose binding lectin (Pisum sativum agglutinin) and D-galactose binding lectins (i.e., peanut agglutinin). These results suggested that ACTH and MSH cells produce different types of glycoconjugates which may be attributed to the difference in glycoconjugate moieties between the precursor proteins, POC and POM.
SQUAMOSA and APETALA1 are floral meristem identity genes from snapdragon (Antirrhinum majus) and Arabidopsis, respectively. Here, we characterize the floral meristem identity mutation proliferating inflorescence meristem (pim) from pea (Pisum sativum) and show that it corresponds to a defect in the PEAM4 gene, a homolog of SQUAMOSA and APETALA1. The PEAM4 coding region was deleted in the pim-1 allele, and this deletion cosegregated with the pim-1 mutant phenotype. The pim-2 allele carried a nucleotide substitution at a predicted 5' splice site that resulted in mis-splicing of pim-2 mRNA. PCR products corresponding to unspliced and exon-skipped mRNA species were observed. The pim-1 and pim-2 mutations delayed floral meristem specification and altered floral morphology significantly but had no observable effect on vegetative development. These floral-specific mutant phenotypes and the restriction of PIM gene expression to flowers contrast with other known floral meristem genes in pea that additionally affect vegetative development. The identification of PIM provides an opportunity to compare pathways to flowering in species with different inflorescence architectures.
During early pea fruit growth, the physiological roles of 4-chloroindole-3-acetic acid (4-Cl-IAA) and IAA, natural pea auxins, in regulating gibberellin (GA) 20-oxidase gene expression (PsGA20ox1) were tested with 4-position, ring-substituted auxins that have a range of biological activities (fruit growth). The effect of seeds, and natural and synthetic auxins (4-Cl-IAA, and IAA; 4-Me-IAA, 4-Et-IAA and 4-F-IAA, respectively), and auxin concentration (4-Cl-IAA) on PsGA20ox1 mRNA levels in pea pericarp were investigated over a 24 h treatment period. The ability of the 4-substituted auxins to increase PsGA20ox1 mRNA levels in deseeded pericarp was correlated with their ability to stimulate pericarp growth. The greatest increase in pericarp PsGA20ox1 mRNA levels and growth was observed when deseeded pericarps were treated with the naturally occurring pea auxin, 4-Cl-IAA; however, IAA was not effective. Silver thiosulfate, an ethylene action antagonist, did not reverse IAA's lack of stimulation of PsGA20ox1 over the control treatment. 4-Me-IAA was the second most active auxin in stimulating PsGA20ox1 and was the second most biologically active auxin. Application of the 4-substituted IAA analogs, 4-Et-IAA and 4-F-IAA, to deseeded pericarps resulted in minimal or no increase in PsGA20ox1 transcript levels or pericarp growth. Pericarp PsGA20ox1 mRNA levels increased with increasing 4-Cl-IAA concentration and showed transitory increases at low 4-Cl-IAA treatments (30 to 300 pmol). These results support a unique physiological role for the auxin 4-Cl-IAA in the regulation of GA metabolism by effecting PsGA20ox1 expression during early pea fruit growth.
Most higher plant species can enter a root symbiosis with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, in which plant carbon is traded for fungal phosphate. This is an ancient symbiosis, which has been detected in fossils of early land plants. In contrast, the nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbioses of plants with bacteria evolved more recently, and are phylogenetically restricted to the rosid I clade of plants. Both symbioses rely on partially overlapping genetic programmes. We have identified the molecular basis for this convergence by cloning orthologous SYMRK ('symbiosis receptor-like kinase') genes from Lotus and pea, which are required for both fungal and bacterial recognition. SYMRK is predicted to have a signal peptide, an extracellular domain comprising leucine-rich repeats, a transmembrane and an intracellular protein kinase domain. Lotus SYMRK is required for a symbiotic signal transduction pathway leading from the perception of microbial signal molecules to rapid symbiosis-related gene activation. The perception of symbiotic fungi and bacteria is mediated by at least one common signalling component, which could have been recruited during the evolution of root nodule symbioses from the already existing arbuscular mycorrhiza symbiosis.
A common characteristic among fungal pathogens of plants is that each specializes on a narrow range of specific plants as hosts. One adaptation to a specific host plant is the recognition of the host's chemicals which can be used to trigger genes or developmental pathways needed for pathogenesis. The production of characteristic flavonoids by plants, particularly those exuded from roots by legumes, appear to be used as signals for various microbes, including symbionts as well as pathogens. Nectria haematococca MPVI (anamorph: Fusarium solani) is a soil-borne pathogen of garden pea (Pisum sativum) which serves as a useful model in studying host flavonoid recognition. This fungus displays flavonoid induction of specific pathogenicity genes as well as stimulation of development needed for pathogenesis. Here, we summarize the study of flavonoid-inducible signal pathways which regulate these trait, through identification of transcription factors and regulatory components which control these responses. The characterization of the components a pathogen uses to specifically recognize its host provides insights into the host adaptation process at the molecular level.
Cultivars of Pisum sativum that differ with respect to the quantitative expression of trypsin/chymotrypsin inhibitor proteins in seeds have been examined in terms of the structure of the corresponding genes. The patterns of divergence in the promoter and coding sequences are described, and the divergence among these exploited for the development of facile DNA-based assays to distinguish genotypes. Quantitative effects on gene expression may be attributed to the overall gene complement and to particular promoter/coding sequence combinations, as well as to the existence of distinct active-site variants that ultimately influence protein activity. Electronic supplementary material to this paper can be obtained by using the Springer LINK server located at http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00438-002-0667-4.
l-Galactose dehydrogenase (l-GalDH), a novel enzyme that oxidizes l-Gal to l-galactono-1,4-lactone (l-GalL), has been purified from pea seedlings and cloned from Arabidopsis thaliana. l-GalL is a proposed substrate for ascorbate biosynthesis in plants, therefore the function of l-GalDH in ascorbate biosynthesis was investigated by overexpression in tobacco and antisense suppression in A. thaliana. In tobacco the highest expressing lines had a 3.5-fold increase in extractable activity, but this did not increase leaf ascorbate concentration. Arabidopsis thaliana, transformed with an antisense l-GalDH construct, produced lines with 30% of wild-type activity. These had lower leaf ascorbate concentration when grown under high light conditions. l-Gal pool size increased in antisense transformants with low l-GalDH activity, and l-Gal concentration was negatively correlated with ascorbate. The results provide direct evidence for a role of l-GalDH in ascorbate biosynthesis. Ascorbate pool size in A. thaliana is increased by acclimation to high light, but l-GalDH expression was not affected. l-Gal accumulation was higher in antisense plants acclimated to high light, indicating that the capacity to synthesize l-Gal from GDP-mannose is increased. Because the only known function of l-GalL is ascorbate synthesis, these antisense plants provide an opportunity to investigate ascorbate function with minimal effects on carbohydrate metabolism. Measurements of other antioxidants revealed an increase in ascorbate- and pyrogallol-dependent peroxidase activity in low-ascorbate lines. As ascorbate is the major hydrogen peroxide-scavenging antioxidant in plants, this could indicate a compensatory mechanism for controlling hydrogen peroxide concentration.
Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae normally gains access to pea host cells through tubular cell wall ingrowths termed infection threads. Matrix glycoprotein (MGP), a major component of the infection thread lumen, is also secreted from the tips of uninoculated roots and can be released into solution under reducing conditions. Monoclonal antibody MAC265, which recognizes MGP through a carbohydrate epitope, was used for immunoaffinity purification of the glycoprotein from pea roots. Following treatment with chymotrypsin, a peptide fragment was obtained and subjected to N-terminal sequencing. Using PCR primers based on this sequence, cDNA clones were isolated with RNA from inoculated roots and nodules. DNA sequencing of 30 of these clones revealed a family of closely related and repetitive polypeptides with (hydroxy)proline-rich motifs. The cDNA sequences showed over 70% identity with the deduced amino acid sequences of plant extensins, particularly with VfNDS-E from Vicia faba and MtN12 from Medicago truncatula, both of which are strongly upregulated in legume root nodules. Root nodule extensins from pea were of variable length but showed strong sequence conservation of the N-terminus, of the C-terminus, and of a central domain comprising 33 amino acids that were sometimes reiterated. The distribution of tyrosine residues suggested the possible importance of intramolecular and intermolecular cross-linking. There was strong sequence conservation with MtN12 in the 3'-untranslated region, suggesting a possible involvement in posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression.
To acquire iron, many plant species reduce soil Fe(III) to Fe(II) by Fe(III)-chelate reductases embedded in the plasma membrane of root epidermal cells. The reduced product is then taken up by Fe(II) transporter proteins. These activities are induced under Fe deficiency. We describe here the FRO1 gene from pea (Pisum sativum), which encodes an Fe(III)-chelate reductase. Consistent with this proposed role, FRO1 shows similarity to other oxidoreductase proteins, and expression of FRO1 in yeast conferred increased Fe(III)-chelate reductase activity. Furthermore, FRO1 mRNA levels in plants correlated with Fe(III)-chelate reductase activity. Sites of FRO1 expression in roots, leaves, and nodules were determined. FRO1 mRNA was detected throughout the root, but was most abundant in the outer epidermal cells. Expression was detected in mesophyll cells in leaves. In root nodules, mRNA was detected in the infection zone and nitrogen-fixing region. These results indicate that FRO1 acts in root Fe uptake and they suggest a role in Fe distribution throughout the plant. Characterization of FRO1 has also provided new insights into the regulation of Fe uptake. FRO1 expression and reductase activity was detected only in Fe-deficient roots of Sparkle, whereas both were constitutive in brz and dgl, two mutants with incorrectly regulated Fe accumulation. In contrast, FRO1 expression was responsive to Fe status in shoots of all three plant lines. These results indicate differential regulation of FRO1 in roots and shoots, and improper FRO1 regulation in response to a shoot-derived signal of iron status in the roots of the brz and dgl mutants.
This study focuses on lead accumulation in roots, stems and leaves of three plant species of the Fabacea family: Vicia faba, Pisum sativum and Phaseolus vulgaris grown hydroponically in a medium supplemented with 1 mM concentration of lead. The largest amount of lead, up to 75 mg Pb/g dry weight, was accumulated in roots of P. vulgaris. The highest rate of Pb ions uptake from the medium took place during the first 10 h of incubation with lead and after 96 h of incubation lead content in the medium decreased by half. Thus, it was suggested that P. vulgaris could be used in rhizofiltration--the use of plant roots to absorb pollutants from water contaminated with lead. At the same time we studied the influence of lead on acid soluble thiol, glutathione, homoglutathione contents and the synthesis of phyto- and homophytochelatins in roots of V. faba, P. sativum and P. vulgaris grown hydroponically. Activation of the detoxicative-phytochelatin system was observed in the cytosol of root cells of the tested plants. This system was composed of phytochelatins (PCs) in roots of V. faba, homophytochelatins (hPCs) in P. vulgaris roots and both PCs and hPCs in P. sativum roots. The total content of PCs and hPCs in roots of P. sativum was very high and reached around 4800 (expressed in nmol SH x g(-1)FW) and induction of their synthesis occurred after only 2 h of treatment with 1 mM Pb.
During the storage phase, cotyledons of developing pea seeds are nourished by nutrients released to the seed apoplasm by their maternal seed coats. Sucrose is transported into pea cotyledons by sucrose/H+ symport mediated by PsSUT1 and possibly other sucrose symporters. PsSUT1 is principally localised to plasma membranes of cotyledon epidermal and subepidermal transfer cells abutting the seed coat. We tested the hypothesis that endogenous sucrose/H+ symporter(s) regulate sucrose import into developing pea cotyledons. This was done by supplementing their transport activity with a potato sucrose symporter (StSUT1), selectively expressed in cotyledon storage parenchyma cells under control of a vicilin promoter. In segregating transgenic lines, enhanced [(14)C]sucrose influx into cotyledons above wild-type levels was found to be dependent on StSUT1 expression. The transgene significantly increased (approximately 2-fold) transport activity of cotyledon storage parenchyma tissues where it was selectively expressed. In contrast, sucrose influx into whole cotyledons through the endogenous epidermal transfer cell pathway was increased by only 23% in cotyledons expressing the transgene. A similar response was found for rates of biomass gain by intact cotyledons and by excised cotyledons cultured on a sucrose medium. These observations demonstrate that transport activities of sucrose symporters influence cotyledon growth rates. The attenuated effect of StSUT1 overexpression on sucrose and dry matter fluxes by whole cotyledons is consistent with a large proportion of sucrose being taken up at the cotyledonary surface. This indicates that the cellular location of sucrose transporter activity plays a key role in determining rates of sucrose import into cotyledons.
As part of a search for seed coat-specific expressed genes in Pisum sativum cv. Finale by PCR-based methods, we identified and isolated a cDNA encoding a beta- 1,3-glucanase, designated PsGNS2. The deduced peptide sequence of PsGNS2 is similar to a subfamily of beta-1,3-glucanases, which is characterized by the presence of a long amino acid extension at the C-terminal end compared to the other beta-1,3-glucanases. PsGNS2 is expressed in young flowers and in the seed coat and is weakly expressed in vegetative tissues (roots and stems) during seedling development. It is not inducible by environmental stress or in response to fungal infection. In developing pea flowers the transcript is detectable in all four whirls. In the seed coat the expression is temporally and spatially regulated. High abundance of the transcript became visible in the seed coat when the embryo reached the late heart stage and remained until the mid seed-filling stage. In situ hybridization data demonstrated that the expression of PsGNS2 is restricted to a strip of the inner parenchyma tissue of the seed coat, which is involved in temporary starch accumulation and embryo nutrition. This tissue showed also less callose deposits than the other ones. The 5' genomic region of PsGNS2 was isolated and promoter activity studies in transgenic Medicago truncatula showed a seed-specific expression. Highest activity of the promoter was found in the seed coat and in the endosperm part of the seed.
The transcriptional activity of nucleoids changes during plastid development, presumably due to the morphological and molecular differences of the nucleoids. Pea chloroplast nucleoids have an abundant 70-kDa protein identified as sulfite reductase (SiR) that can compact DNA. Using an in vitro transcription assay, we show here that heparin increased the transcriptional activity of chloroplast nucleoids with concomitant release of SiR. Using a fluorometric method we developed for analyzing DNA compaction, we found that the fluorescence intensity of chloroplast DNA stained with 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole was decreased by the addition of SiR and increased by the subsequent addition of heparin. Addition of exogenous SiR increased the compaction of isolated nucleoids, and the addition of heparin relaxed it. SiR effectively repressed the in vitro transcription activity of nucleoids and counteracted the activation by heparin. These results suggest that SiR regulates the transcriptional activity of chloroplast nucleoids through changes in DNA compaction.
Suppression subtractive hybridisation was used to isolate genes differentially regulated by low levels (UV-B(BE,300) 0.13 W m(-2)) of ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B; 290-320 nm) in Pisum sativum. Six genes were regulated, two of which were novel. The mRNA levels for these two (PsTSDC and PsUOS1) were increased and depressed by UV-B treatment, respectively. Domains in the PsTSDC translation product was similar to TIR (Toll-Interleukin-1 receptor-similar) domains and a NB-ARC domain (nucleotide-binding domain in APAF-1, R gene products and CED-4). The PsUOS1 translation product was similar to an open reading frame in Arabidopsis. Genes encoding embryo-abundant protein (PsEMB) and S-adenosyl-L-methionine synthase (PsSAMS) were induced by UV-B, whereas the transcript levels for genes encoding sucrose transport protein (PsSUT) or ribulose-5-phosphate 3-epimerase (PsR5P3E) were decreased. These regulation patterns are novel, and the PsEMB and PsR5P3E sequences are reported for the first time. The stress-specificity of regulation of these genes were tested by ozone fumigation (100 ppb O(3)). Qualitatively, the similarity of expression after both UV-B and ozone exposure suggests that, for these genes, similar stress-response pathways are in action.
Plant genomes typically contain several sequences homologous to protein disulfide isomerase (PDI). PDI was first identified as an abundant enzyme in the endoplasmic reticulum, where it catalyzes the formation, reduction, and isomerization of disulfide bonds during protein folding. PDI-like proteins have also been implicated in a variety of other functions, such as the regulation of cell adhesion, and may act as elicitors of the autoimmune response in mammals. A PDI-like protein (RB60) was recently shown to be imported into chloroplasts in the unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and a higher plant, Pisum sativum, where it associates with thylakoid membranes. This suggests that the different PDI-like proteins in plant and animals may have diverse biological roles. To begin to elucidate the roles of PDI-like proteins, we have cloned, characterized, and generated knock-out mutants for three PDI-like genes that have high, medium, and low levels of expression, respectively, in the moss Physcomitrella patens. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that the three PDI-like proteins cluster with RB60 and four proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana. They are typified by an N-terminal domain rich in negatively charged residues. The knock-out mutants, which are the first knock-outs available for PDI-like proteins in a multicellular organism, were found to be viable, indicating that the function of each single gene is dispensable, and suggesting that they may be functionally complementary.
The Arabidopsis gene FCA encodes an RNA binding protein that functions to promote the floral transition. The FCA transcript is alternatively processed to yield four transcripts, the most abundant of which is polyadenylated within intron 3. We have analyzed the role of the alternative processing on the floral transition. The introduction of FCA intronless transgenes resulted in increased FCA protein levels and accelerated flowering, but no role in flowering was found for products of the shorter transcripts. The consequences of the alternative processing on the FCA expression pattern were determined using a series of translational FCA-beta-glucuronidase fusions. The inclusion of FCA genomic sequence containing the alternatively processed intron 3 restricted the expression of the transgene predominantly to shoot and root apices and young flower buds. Expression of this fusion also was delayed developmentally. Therefore, the alternative processing of the FCA transcript limits, both spatially and temporally, the amount of functional FCA protein. Expression in roots prompted an analysis of root development, which indicated that FCA functions more generally than in the control of the floral transition.
Growth of young pea (Pisum sativum) fruit (pericarp) requires developing seeds or, in the absence of seeds, treatment with gibberellin (GA) or auxin (4-chloroindole-3-acetic acid). This study examined the role of seeds and hormones in the regulation of cell division and elongation in early pea fruit development. Profiling histone H2A and gamma-tonoplast intrinsic protein (TIP) gene expression during early fruit development identified the relative contributions of cell division and elongation to fruit growth, whereas histological studies identified specific zones of cell division and elongation in exocarp, mesocarp, and endocarp tissues. Molecular and histological studies showed that maximal cell division was from -2 to 2 d after anthesis (DAA) and elongation from 2 to 5 DAA in pea pericarp. Maximal increase in pericarp gamma-TIP message level preceded the maximal rate of fruit growth and, in general, gamma-TIP mRNA level was useful as a qualitative marker for expanding tissue, but not as a quantitative marker for cell expansion. Seed removal resulted in rapid decreases in pericarp growth and in gamma-TIP and histone H2A message levels. In general, GA and 4-chloroindole-3-acetic acid maintained these processes in deseeded pericarp similarly to pericarps with seeds, and both hormones were required to obtain mesocarp cell sizes equivalent to intact fruit. However, GA treatment to deseeded pericarps resulted in elevated levels of gamma-TIP mRNA (6 and 7 DAA) when pericarp growth and cell enlargement were minimal. Our data support the theory that cell division and elongation are developmentally regulated during early pea fruit growth and are maintained by the hormonal interaction of GA and auxin.
Legume nodules formed by diazotrophic microorganisms are active sites for biological nitrogen fixation (BNF). In tropical regions, a significant part of N supply for soybean, peanut and bean crops is derived from BNF, which is nevertheless often limited by high temperature stress. In contrast, cowpea nodules are very resistant to high temperatures. To understand the molecular bases of thermotolerance during BNF under heat stress, we have used cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism experiments to identify differentially expressed transcripts from cowpea nodules subjected to heat shock treatment. The expression profiles obtained showed approximately 600 bands, 55 up-regulated and nine corresponding to genes repressed by heat stress. Twenty transcript-derived fragments were isolated, cloned and sequenced. The Vigna unguiculata nodule and stress response transcripts present similarities to those that encode low molecular weight heat shock proteins, wound-induced proteins, disease resistance protein, and xylan endohydrolase isoenzyme, as well as different housekeeping genes. The differential expression of 15 genes was confirmed by using Northern blot or reverse Northern hybridization experiments.
A cDNA, able to complement the S-adenosyl-L-methionine decarboxylase (SAMdC; EC 4.1.1.50)-defective yeast strain Y342, has been isolated from pea (Pisum sativum L.). Expression of the SAMdC gene was characterised during pea development. Northern analysis showed a differential expression of the pea SAMdC gene in vegetative and reproductive tissues. The highest SAMdC mRNA levels were found in undifferentiated callus and tissues with high rates of cell division, and at the onset of fruit development. SAMdC expression was also induced in senescing ovaries, probably in relation to an accumulation of spermine during ovary senescence. Finally, the levels of SAMdC transcripts in leaves and shoots were differentially affected by ozone treatment.
During legume seed development the epidermis of the embryos differentiates into a transfer cell layer which mediates nutrient uptake during the storage phase. This specific function of the epidermal cells is acquired at the onset of embryo maturation. We investigated this process in the pea seed mutant E2748. The epidermal cells of the mutant embryo, instead of turning into transfer cells, enlarge considerably and become vacuolated and tightly associated with adjacent seed tissues. Expression of a sucrose transporter gene that is upregulated in wild-type transfer cells decreases in the mutant and changes its spatial pattern. This indicates that the outermost cell layer of mutant cotyledons cannot acquire transfer cell morphology but loses epidermal cell identity and does not function as a sucrose uptake system. Seed coat growth as well as composition, concentration and dynamics of sugars within the endospermal vacuole are unchanged. The loss of epidermal identity has severe consequences for further embryo development and is followed by disruption of the symplast within the parenchyma, the breach of the developmental gradient, lower sucrose and starch levels and initiation of callus-like growth. It is concluded that the E2748 gene controls differentiation of the cotyledonary epidermis into transfer cells and thus is required for the regional specialisation with a function in embryo nutrition.
Crd1 (Copper response defect 1), which is required for the maintenance of photosystem I and its associated light-harvesting complexes in copper-deficient (-Cu) and oxygen-deficient (-O(2)) Chlamydomonas reinhardtii cells, is localized to the thylakoid membrane. A related protein, Cth1 (Copper target homolog 1), is shown to have a similar but not identical function by genetic suppressor analysis of gain-of-function sct1 (suppressor of copper target 1) strains that are transposon-containing alleles at CTH1. The pattern of Crd1 versus Cth1 accumulation is reciprocal; Crd1 abundance is increased in -Cu or -O(2) cells, whereas Cth1 accumulates in copper-sufficient (+Cu), oxygenated cells. This expression pattern is determined by a single trans-acting regulatory locus, CRR1 (COPPER RESPONSE REGULATOR 1), which activates transcription in -Cu cells. In +Cu cells, a 2.1-kb Cth1 mRNA is produced and translated, whereas Crd1 is transcribed only at basal levels, leading to Cth1 accumulation in +Cu cells. In -Cu cells, CRR1 function determines the activation of Crd1 expression and the production of an alternative 3.1-kb Cth1 mRNA that is extended at the 5' end relative to the 2.1-kb mRNA. Synthesis of the 3.1-kb mRNA, which encodes six small upstream open reading frames that possibly result in poor translation, blocks the downstream promoter through transcriptional occlusion. Fluorescence analysis of wild-type, crd1, and sct1 strains indicates that copper-responsive adjustment of the Cth1:Crd1 ratio results in modification of the interactions between photosystem I and associated light-harvesting complexes. The tightly coordinated CRR1-dependent regulation of isoenzymes Cth1 and Crd1 reinforces the notion that copper plays a specific role in the maintenance of chlorophyll proteins.
The intra-S-phase checkpoint response to hydroxyurea (HU)-mediated arrest of DNA replication was analysed in root meristems of two legumes, Pisum sativum and Vicia faba. The obtained results suggest that a molecular signal which invokes mechanisms allowing the cells to override the S-M dependency control system may be generated by caffeine (CF) and a number of alternative, yet related chemical agents, benzyl-6-aminopurine (BAP), 2-aminopurine (2-AP), and 6-dimethylaminopurine (DMAP). A variety of aberrant mitotic divisions included chromosomal breaks and gaps, lost and lagging chromatids and chromosomes, acentric fragments, chromosome bridges and micronuclei. Furthermore, similar effects induced by sodium vanadate, an inhibitor of protein phosphatases, extend the number of inhibitors capable of inducing premature chromosome condensation (PCC) in root meristem cells, as well as the range of possible regulatory pathways leading to the transition from S-phase arrest towards abnormal mitosis. Until preprophase, FITC-conjugated monoclonal antibodies (alpha-Y(a)b-FITC) that specifically recognize phosphorylated form of threonine indicate no evident cell cycle-dependent changes in an overall phosphorylation status of root meristem cells in the control plants. Irrespective of the stage of interphase, alpha-Y(p)ab-FITC was localized basically in the cytoplasm, whereas nuclear staining was considerably weaker, with a significant fluorescence confined merely to nucleolar regions. The intensity of alpha-Y(p)ab-FITC staining in HU/CF-treated seedlings was found higher than that in the control plants (with the exception of G2 cells), suggesting a general increase in the level of protein phosphorylation, a physiological response mediated probably by an enhanced activity of the cdc-like protein kinase(s).
Five nodulin genes, PsN1, PsN6, PsN314, PsN335, and PsN466, with reduced expression in ineffective nodules on the pea (Pisum sativum) mutant E135 (sym13) were characterized. They encode small polypeptides containing a putative signal peptide and conserved cysteine residues and show homology to the nodulins PsENOD3/14 and PsNOD6. For each gene, multiple bands were detected by genomic Southern analysis. Northern analysis showed that all five genes were expressed exclusively in nodules and that their temporal expression patterns were similar to that of the leghemoglobin (Lb) gene during nodule development. Their transcripts were localized predominantly from the interzone II-III to the distal part of nitrogen-fixing zone III in effective nodules, resembling the Lb gene. However, transcripts in ineffective E135 nodules were localized in narrower regions than those in the effective nodules. These results indicate that these nodulins are abundant in pea nodules and that their successive expression during nodule development is associated with nitrogen-fixing activity.
Genes representative of three gene classes encoding proteinase inhibitor proteins, with distinct spatial expression patterns, were isolated and characterized from Pisum. Under standard plant growth conditions, one class is expressed exclusively in seeds, whereas the other two make minor contributions to seed inhibitor proteins but are also expressed in other organs, predominantly in root endodermal and floral reproductive tissues. Two of the gene classes contain few genes and are genetically linked at the Tri locus, whereas the third class displays complex hybridization patterns to genomic DNA and maps to diverse genetic loci. Expression analysis of this last class suggests that only a small number of these genes are expressed. The quantitative effect of the Tri locus on root and floral inhibitor gene expression was examined in near-isogenic lines of pea. The proteins encoded by the three classes are all members of the same family (Bowman-Birk) of enzyme inhibitors but are distinct in terms of overall sequence, active site sequences and inhibitor function.
Cultivar Afghanistan peas are resistant to nodulation by many strains of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae but are nodulated by strain TOM, which carries the host specificity gene nodX. Some strains that lack nodX can inhibit nodulation of cv. Afghanistan by strain TOM. We present evidence that this "competitive nodulation-blocking" (Cnb) phenotype may result from high levels of Nod factors inhibiting nodulation of cv. Afghanistan peas. The TOM nod gene region (including nodX) is cloned on pIJ1095, and strains (including TOM itself) carrying pIJ1095 nodulate cv. Afghanistan peas very poorly but can nodulate other varieties normally. The presence of pIJ1095, which causes increased levels of Nod factor production, correlates with Cnb. Nodulation of cv. Afghanistan by TOM is also inhibited by a cloned nodD gene that increases nod gene expression and Nod factor production. Nodulation of cv. Afghanistan can be stimulated if nodD on pIJ1095 is mutated, thus severely reducing the level of Nod factor produced. Repression of nod gene expression by nolR eliminates the Cnb phenotype and can stimulate nodulation of cv. Afghanistan. Addition of Nod factors to cv. Afghanistan roots strongly inhibits nodulation. The Cnb+ strains and added Nod factors inhibit infection thread initiation by strain TOM. The sym2A allele determines resistance of cv. Afghanistan to nodulation by strains of R. leguminosarum bv. viciae lacking nodX. We tested whether sym2A is involved in Cnb by using a pea line carrying the sym2A region introgressed from cv. Afghanistan; nodulation in the introgressed line was inhibited by Cnb+ strains. Therefore, the sym2A region has an effect on Cnb, although another locus (or loci) may contribute to the stronger Cnb seen in cv. Afghanistan.
Gibberellin A(1) (GA(1)) levels drop significantly in wild-type pea (Pisum sativum) plants within 4 h of exposure to red, blue, or far-red light. This response is controlled by phytochrome A (phyA) (and not phyB) and a blue light receptor. GA(8) levels are increased in response to 4 h of red light, whereas the levels of GA(19), GA(20), and GA(29) do not vary substantially. Red light appears to control GA(1) levels by down-regulating the expression of Mendel's LE (PsGA3ox1) gene that controls the conversion of GA(20) to GA(1), and by up-regulating PsGA2ox2, which codes for a GA 2-oxidase that converts GA(1) to GA(8). This occurs within 0.5 to 1 h of exposure to red light. Similar responses occur in blue light. The major GA 20-oxidase gene expressed in shoots, PsGA20ox1, does not show substantial light regulation, but does show up-regulation after 4 h of red light, probably as a result of feedback regulation. Expression of PsGA3ox1 shows a similar feedback response, whereas PsGA2ox2 shows a feed-forward response. These results add to our understanding of how light reduces shoot elongation during de-etiolation.
A Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae VF39 gene (gabT) encoding a gamma-aminobutyrate (GABA) aminotransferase was identified, cloned and characterized. This gene is thought to be involved in GABA metabolism via the GABA shunt pathway, a theoretical bypass of the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex. Mutants in gabT are still able to grow on GABA as a sole carbon and nitrogen source. 2-oxoglutarate-dependent GABA aminotransferase activity is absent in these mutants, while pyruvate-dependent activity remains unaffected. This indicates that at least two enzymes with different substrate specifities are involved in the GABA metabolism of R. leguminosarum bv. viciae VF39. The gabT promoter was cloned into a newly constructed, stable promoter-probe vector pJP2, suitable for the study of transcriptional GUS fusions in free-living bacteria and during symbiosis. Under free-living conditions the gabT promoter is induced by GABA and repressed by succinate. Transcriptional regulation is mediated by GabR in a repressor-like manner. During symbiosis with the pea host plant gabT is induced and highly expressed in the symbiotic zone. Nodules induced by gabT mutants, however, are still effective in nitrogen fixation.
We show that the expression of an indole-3-acetic acid (IAA)-modified protein from bean seed, IAP1, is correlated to the developmental period of rapid growth during seed development. Moreover, this protein undergoes rapid degradation during germination. The gene for IAP1, the most abundant protein covalently modified by IAA (iap1, GenBank accession no. ) was isolated and cloned from bush bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) seeds. The 957-bp sequence encodes a 35-kDa polypeptide. IAA-modified proteins represent a distinct class of conjugated phytohormones and appear in bean to be the major form of auxin in seeds. IAA proteins also are found at other stages of development in bean plants. Our immunological and analytical data suggest that auxin modification of a small class of proteins may be a feature common to many plants.
Nodule ferric leghemoglobin reductase (FLbR) and leaf dihydrolipoamide reductase (DLDH) belong to the same family of pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductases. We report here the cloning, expression, and characterization of a second protein with FLbR activity, FLbR-2, from soybean (Glycine max) nodules. The cDNA is 1,779 bp in length and codes for a precursor protein comprising a 30-residue mitochondrial transit peptide and a 470-residue mature protein of 50 kD. The derived protein has considerable homology with soybean nodule FLbR-1 (93% identity) and pea (Pisum sativum) leaf mitochondria DLDH (89% identity). The cDNA encoding the mature protein was overexpressed in Escherichia coli. The recombinant enzyme showed Km and kcat values for ferric leghemoglobin that were very similar to those of DLDH. The transcripts of FLbR-2 were more abundant in stems and roots than in nodules and leaves. Immunoblots of nodule fractions revealed that an antibody raised against pea leaf DLDH cross-reacted with recombinant FLbR-2, native FLbR-2 of soybean nodule mitochondria, DLDH from bacteroids, and an unknown protein of approximately 70 kD localized in the nodule cytosol. Immunogold labeling was also observed in the mitochondria, cytosol, and bacteroids of soybean nodules. The similar biochemical, kinetic, and immunological properties, as well as the high amino acid sequence identity and mitochondrial localization, draw us to conclude that FLbR-2 is soybean DLDH.
Gene expression in plant mitochondria is still inadequately analyzed. To learn more about transcription and RNA processing in plant mitochondria, the 5'- and 3'-RNA extremities and the promoters of the cytochrome oxidase gene (cox2) were analyzed in pea. Both 5' and 3' ends of cox2 transcripts were examined by RT-PCR across the ligation site of circularized mitochondrial RNA as template. This approach identified 5' ends a few nucleotides shorter than three major 5' ends mapped by primer extension analysis. Presumably, only monophosphate 5' ends derived from processing can be ligated. In vitro transcription assays using a homologous mitochondrial protein extract from pea strongly suggest the major 5' ends to derive from transcription initiation. The cDNA analysis of the head-to-tail ligated cox2 mRNA identified 3' ends within a thymidine stretch approximately 300 nt downstream of the reading frame in a sequence segment that was not present in the previous investigation of this gene. Nuclease S1 protection experiments confirmed this newly identified 3' terminus and corroborated the validity of this technique in mRNA end analysis. The general use of the circularized RNA (CR)-RT-PCR approach for the simultaneous analysis of the 5' and 3' extremities of mRNA molecules is discussed.
Holocarboxylase synthetase (HCS), catalyzing the covalent attachment of biotin, is ubiquitously represented in living organisms. Indeed, the biotinylation is a post-translational modification that allows the transformation of inactive biotin-dependent carboxylases, which are committed in fundamental metabolisms such as fatty acid synthesis, into their active holo form. Among other living organisms, plants present a peculiarly complex situation. In pea, HCS activity has been detected in three subcellular compartments and the systematic sequencing of the Arabidopsis genome revealed the occurrence of two hcs genes (hcs1 and hcs2). Hcs1 gene product had been previously characterized at molecular and biochemical levels. Here, by PCR amplification, we cloned an hcs2 cDNA from Arabidopsis thaliana (Ws ecotype) mRNA. We observed the occurrence of multiple cDNA forms which resulted from the alternative splicing of hcs2 mRNA. Furthermore, we evidenced a nucleotide polymorphism at the hcs2 gene within the Ws ecotype, which affected splicing of hcs2 mRNA. This contrasted sharply with the situation at hcs1 locus. However, this polymorphism had no apparent effect on total HCS activity in planta. Finally, hcs2 mRNAs were found 4-fold less abundant than hcs1 mRNA and the most abundant hcs2 mRNA spliced variant should code for a truncated protein. We discuss the possible role of such a multiplicity of putative HCS proteins in plants and discuss the involvement of each of hcs genes in the correct realization of biotinylation.
The Aux/IAA class of genes are rapidly induced by exogenous auxins and have been characterized extensively from many dicot species like Arabidopsis, Glycine max and Pisum sativum. We report here the isolation and characterization of rice (Oryza sativa L. subsp. Indica) OsIAA1 cDNA as a monocot member of the Aux/IAA gene family. The predicted amino acid sequence of OsIAA1 corresponds to a protein of ca. 26 kDa, which harbors all four characteristic domains known to be conserved in Aux/IAA proteins. The conservation of these Aux/IAA genes indicates that auxins have essentially a similar mode of action in monocots and dicots. Northern blot analysis revealed that the OsIAA1 transcript levels decrease in the excised coleoptile segments on auxin starvation, and the level is restored when auxin is supplemented; the increase in OsIAA1 transcript level was apparent within 15 to 30 min of auxin application. Auxin-induced OsIAA1 expression appears to be correlated with the elongation of excised coleoptile segments. In light-grown rice seedlings, OsIAA1 is preferentially expressed in roots and basal segment of the seedling, whereas in the etiolated rice seedlings, the OsIAA1 transcripts are most abundant in the coleoptile. A comparative analysis in light- and dark-grown seedling tissues indicates that the OsIAA1 transcript levels decrease on illumination.
A typical soybean (Glycine max) plant assimilates nitrogen rapidly both in active root nodules and in developing seeds and pods. Oxaloacetate and 2-ketoglutarate are major acceptors of ammonia during rapid nitrogen assimilation. Oxaloacetate can be derived from the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, and it also can be synthesized from phosphoenolpyruvate and carbon dioxide by phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase. An active malate dehydrogenase is required to facilitate carbon flow from phosphoenolpyruvate to oxaloacetate. We report the cloning and sequence analyses of a complete and novel malate dehydrogenase gene in soybean. The derived amino acid sequence was highly similar to the nodule-enhanced malate dehydrogenases from Medicago sativa and Pisum sativum in terms of the transit peptide and the mature subunit (i.e., the functional enzyme). Furthermore, the mature subunit exhibited a very high homology to the plastid-localized NAD-dependent malate dehydrogenase from Arabidopsis thaliana, which has a completely different transit peptide. In addition, the soybean nodule-enhanced malate dehydrogenase was abundant in both immature soybean seeds and pods. Only trace amounts of the enzyme were found in leaves and nonnodulated roots. In vitro synthesized labeled precursor protein was imported into the stroma of spinach chloroplasts and processed to the mature subunit, which has a molecular mass of ∼34 kDa. We propose that this new malate dehydrogenase facilitates rapid nitrogen assimilation both in soybean root nodules and in developing soybean seeds, which are rich in protein. In addition, the complete coding region of a geranylgeranyl hydrogenase gene, which is essential for chlorophyll synthesis, was found immediately upstream from the new malate dehydrogenase gene.
Pea seeds contain two major storage proteins, legumin and vicilin, in proportions that are genetically and environmentally determined. They are synthesized from at least 40 genes and at least 10 different genetic loci. Mutant alleles at loci involved in starch synthesis, which result in perturbations in starch accumulation, also affect the expression of legumin genes, thereby influencing the legumin: vicilin ratio within the total seed protein. Examples of such alleles include r (starch-branching enzyme) and rb (ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase), both of which result in a reduction in legumin synthesis; double mutants (rrb) show a particularly severe reduction in the amount of legumin. The effects of such mutations are specific to legumins. The amounts of vicilin are unaffected by mutations at r or rb. One of the consequences of the production of legumin from many genes is structural heterogeneity that is believed to preclude the purification of homogeneous legumin for crystallization and 3D-structure determination. Expression of cloned legumin cDNA in E. coli can result in sequence homogeneity, but E. coli is unable to carry out the normal proteolytic processing of legumin precursors and consequently such material is different from that produced in pea seeds. This paper describes the high-level synthesis, processing and assembly of pea legumin in transgenic wheat seeds, leading to the spontaneous in vitro formation of paracrystalline arrays of legumin, which may be attributed to the fact that the legumin consists of a single type of subunit. Such material might be used as a source of single-sequence, processed and assembled pea legumin for structural investigation.
Biotin synthase, encoded by the bio2 gene in Arabidopsis, catalyzes the final step in the biotin biosynthetic pathway. The development of radiochemical and biological detection methods allowed the first detection and accurate quantification of a plant biotin synthase activity, using protein extracts from bacteria overexpressing the Arabidopsis Bio2 protein. Under optimized conditions, the turnover number of the reaction was >2 h(-1) with this in vitro system. Purified Bio2 protein was not efficient by itself in supporting biotin synthesis. However, heterologous interactions between the plant Bio2 protein and bacterial accessory proteins yielded a functional biotin synthase complex. Biotin synthase in this heterologous system obeyed Michaelis-Menten kinetics with respect to dethiobiotin (K(m) = 30 microM) and exhibited a kinetic cooperativity with respect to S-adenosyl-methionine (Hill coefficient = 1.9; K(0.5) = 39 microM), an obligatory cofactor of the reaction. In vitro inhibition of biotin synthase activity by acidomycin, a structural analog of biotin, showed that biotin synthase reaction was the specific target of this inhibitor of biotin synthesis. It is important that combination experiments using purified Bio2 protein and extracts from pea (Pisum sativum) leaf or potato (Solanum tuberosum) organelles showed that only mitochondrial fractions could elicit biotin formation in the plant-reconstituted system. Our data demonstrated that one or more unidentified factors from mitochondrial matrix (pea and potato) and from mitochondrial membranes (pea), in addition to the Bio2 protein, are obligatory for the conversion of dethiobiotin to biotin, highlighting the importance of mitochondria in plant biotin synthesis.
Ferrochelatase catalyzes the insertion of Fe(2+) into protoporphyrin IX to generate protoheme. In higher plants, there is evidence for two isoforms of this enzyme that fulfill different roles. Here, we describe the isolation of a second ferrochelatase cDNA from cucumber (CsFeC2) that was less similar to a previously isolated isoform (CsFeC1) than it was to some ferrochelatases from other higher plants. In in vitro import experiments, the two cucumber isoforms showed characteristics similar to their respective ferrochelatase counterparts of Arabidopsis thaliana. The C-terminal region of CsFeC2 but not CsFeC1 contained a conserved motif found in light-harvesting chlorophyll proteins, and CsFeC2 belonged to a phylogenetic group of plant ferrochelatases containing this conserved motif. We demonstrate that CsFeC2 was localized predominantly in thylakoid membranes as an intrinsic protein, and forming complexes probably with the C-terminal conserved motif, but a minor portion was also detected in envelope membranes. CsFeC2 mRNA was detected in all tissues and was light-responsive in cotyledons, whereas CsFeC1 mRNA was detected in nonphotosynthetic tissues and was not light-responsive. Interestingly, tissue-, light-, and cycloheximide-dependent expressions of the two isoforms of ferrochelatase were similar to those of two glutamyl-tRNA reductase isoforms involved in the early step of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis, suggesting the existence of distinctly controlled tetrapyrrole biosynthetic pathways in photosynthetic and nonphotosynthetic tissues.
The brassinosteriod-deficient lkb mutant of garden pea (Pisum sativum L.) is characterized by an erectoides phenotype (reduced internode length, thickened stems, epinastic leaves), which is rescued by application of exogenous brassinolide. We show that the LKB gene is the Arabidopsis DIMINUTO/DWARF-1 (DIM/DWF1) homologue of pea. The DIM/DWF1 homologue from lkb plants contains a mutation that may result in reduced enzyme function, thus resulting in the previously shown accumulation of 24-methylenecholesterol and a deficiency of its hydrogenated product, campesterol. This ultimately leads to a deficiency of the biologically active brassionolide. The mutation in the lkb sequence cosegregates with the lkb phenotype. Northern analyis of the LKB gene revealed that the gene is ubiquitously expressed around the plant and that there is no evidence for negative feedback regulation of the gene.
Complementary DNA encoding a DNA-binding protein, designated PLATZ1 (plant AT-rich sequence- and zinc-binding protein 1), was isolated from peas. The amino acid sequence of the protein is similar to those of other uncharacterized proteins predicted from the genome sequences of higher plants. However, no paralogous sequences have been found outside the plant kingdom. Multiple alignments among these paralogous proteins show that several cysteine and histidine residues are invariant, suggesting that these proteins are a novel class of zinc-dependent DNA-binding proteins with two distantly located regions, C-x(2)-H-x(11)-C-x(2)-C-x((4-5))-C-x(2)-C-x((3-7))-H-x(2)-H and C-x(2)-C-x((10-11))-C-x(3)-C. In an electrophoretic mobility shift assay, the zinc chelator 1,10-o-phenanthroline inhibited DNA binding, and two distant zinc-binding regions were required for DNA binding. A protein blot with (65)ZnCl(2) showed that both regions are required for zinc-binding activity. The PLATZ1 protein non-specifically binds to A/T-rich sequences, including the upstream region of the pea GTPase pra2 and plastocyanin petE genes. Expression of the PLATZ1 repressed those of the reporter constructs containing the coding sequence of luciferase gene driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S90 promoter fused to the tandem repeat of the A/T-rich sequences. These results indicate that PLATZ1 is a novel class of plant-specific zinc-dependent DNA-binding protein responsible for A/T-rich sequence-mediated transcriptional repression.
Genes encoding three isoforms of sucrose synthase (Sus1, Sus2, and Sus3) have been cloned from pea (Pisum sativum). The genes have distinct patterns of expression in different organs of the plant, and during organ development. Studies of the isoforms expressed as recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli show that they differ in kinetic properties. Although not of great magnitude, the differences in properties are consistent with some differentiation of physiological function between the isoforms. Evidence for differentiation of function in vivo comes from the phenotypes of rug4 mutants of pea, which carry mutations in the gene encoding Sus1. One mutant line (rug4-c) lacks detectable Sus1 protein in both the soluble and membrane-associated fractions of the embryo, and Sus activity in the embryo is reduced by 95%. The starch content of the embryo is reduced by 30%, but the cellulose content is unaffected. The results imply that different isoforms of Sus may channel carbon from sucrose towards different metabolic fates within the cell.
In contrast to peas (Pisum sativum), where mitochondrial lipoamide dehydrogenase is encoded by a single gene and shared between the alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complexes and the Gly decarboxylase complex, Arabidopsis has two genes encoding for two mitochondrial lipoamide dehydrogenases. Northern-blot analysis revealed different levels of RNA expression for the two genes in different organs; mtLPD1 had higher RNA levels in green leaves compared with the much lower level in roots. The mRNA for mtLPD2 shows the inverse pattern. The other organs examined showed nearly equal RNA expressions for both genes. Analysis of etiolated seedlings transferred to light showed a strong induction of RNA expression for mtLPD1 but only a moderate induction of mtLPD2. Based on the organ and light-dependent expression patterns, we hypothesize that mtLPD1 encodes the protein most often associated with the Gly decarboxylase complex, and mtLPD2 encodes the protein incorporated into alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complexes. Due to the high level of sequence conservation between the two mtLPDs, we assume that the proteins, once in the mitochondrial matrix, are interchangeable among the different multienzyme complexes. If present at high levels, one mtLPD might substitute for the other. Supporting this hypothesis are results obtained with a T-DNA knockout mutant, mtlpd2, which shows no apparent phenotypic change under laboratory growth conditions. This indicates that mtLPD1 can substitute for mtLPD2 and associate with all these multienzyme complexes.
We describe an Arabidopsis thaliana gene, ptlpd2, which codes for a protein with high amino acid similarity to lipoamide dehydrogenases (LPDs) from diverse species. Ptlpd2 codes for a precursor protein possessing an N-terminal extension predicted to be a plastid-targeting signal. Expression of the ptlpd2 cDNA in Escherichia coli showed the encoded protein possessed the predicted LPD activity. PTLPD2 protein, synthesized in vitro, was efficiently imported into isolated chloroplasts of Pisum sativum and shown to be located in the stroma. In addition, fusion proteins containing the predicted transit peptide of PTLPD2 or the entire protein fused at the N-terminus with the green fluorescent protein (GFP), showed accumulation in vivo in chloroplasts but not in mitochondria of A. thaliana. Expression of ptlpd2 was investigated by introducing ptlpd2 promoter-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene fusions into Nicotiana tabacum. GUS expression was observed in seeds, flowers, root tips and young leaves. GUS activity was highest in mature seeds, decreased on germination and increased again in young leaves. Expression was also found to be temporally regulated in pollen grains where it was highest in mature grains at dehiscence. Database searches on ptlpd2 sequences identified a second A. thaliana gene encoding a putative plastidial LPD and two genes encoding proteins with high similarity to the mitochondrial LPD of P. sativum.
Fatty acid synthesis in pea chloroplasts is regulated by light/dark. The regulatory enzyme acetyl-CoA carboxylase is modulated by light/dark, presumably under redox regulation. Acetyl-CoA carboxylase is a multienzyme complex composed of biotin carboxylase and carboxyltransferase (CT). To demonstrate the redox regulation of CT, composed of the nuclear-encoded alpha and the chloroplast-encoded beta subunits, we identified the cysteine residues involved in such regulation. We expressed the recombinant CT in Escherichia coli and found that the partly deleted CT was, like the full-length CT, sensitive to a redox state. Site-directed mutagenesis of the deleted CT showed that replacement by alanine of the cysteine residue 267 in the alpha polypeptide or 442 in the beta polypeptide resulted in redox-insensitive CT and broke the intermolecular disulfide bond between the alpha and beta polypeptides. Similar results were confirmed in the full-length CT. These results indicate that the two cysteines in recombinant CT are involved in redox regulation by intermolecular disulfide-dithiol exchange between the alpha and beta subunits. Immunoblots of extract from plants incubated in the light or dark supported that such a disulfide-dithiol exchange is relevant in vivo. A covalent bond between a nuclear-encoded polypeptide and a chloroplast-encoded polypeptide probably regulates the enzyme activity in response to light.
A cysE gene encoding a serine acetyltransferase (SAT) potentially involved in the biosynthesis of cysteine was identified approximately 4 kb upstream of the previously described aapJQMP gene cluster that encodes an amino acid permease in Rhizobium leguminosarum strain 3841. The gene exhibits >40% identity to the family of SATs containing N-terminal extensions that have been described for other bacteria and plants. The ORF has three possible translation initiation sites which potentially encode polypeptides of 311, 277 and/or 259 amino acid residues, respectively. All three ORFs complemented the cysE mutation in an Escherichia coli cysteine auxotroph, strain JM39. Insertion of Tn5-lacZ into cysE in the genome of R. leguminosarum (strain RU632) lowered SAT activity in crude extracts by >95%. However, RU632 was not a cysteine auxotroph, which suggests that R. leguminosarum possesses some redundancy in cysteine biosynthesis. Additional copies of cysE could not be detected in the genome when the R. leguminosarum cysE gene was used as a hybridization probe. Therefore it is possible that R. leguminosarum possesses an alternative pathway for cysteine biosynthesis which avoids O-acetylserine. Strain RU632 was unaffected in its ability to nodulate Pisum sativum, and the nodules were effective for N(2) fixation (measured by C(2)H(2) reduction). Transcriptional activity of cysE was determined by measuring the beta-galactosidase arising from cysE::Tn5-lacZ fusions. Maximal levels of expression were observed during early exponential growth and were not influenced by the level of sulphur (supplied as sulphate). However, transcription was repressed by approximately twofold in ammonium-grown, as opposed to glutamate-grown, cultures. Repression by ammonium was not seen in a strain defective for ntrC.
The leaf is a coordinated mosaic of developmental domains, which are evident from leaf inception on the flanks of the apical meristem. The subdivision of the meristem into molecularly defined domains is regulated by the interactions of a number of gene products and by receptor kinase-mediated signals. The acquisition of symmetry axes in the emerging leaf is a process coordinated by hormones (such as auxin and cytokinins) and the expression of classes of genes (such as the knox and the ARP, as1/rs2/phan, genes). As with simple leaves, the architecture of compound leaves is defined by spatial/temporal gradients of regulatory gene functions: complexity results from the interplay between leaf differentiation processes and genes maintaining a partial level of indeterminacy in the developing primordium. Boundaries between regions with different molecular 'addresses' are considered, in plants as in Drosophila, as organizing centres for lateral organ development.
The rDNA transcription units are enormous macromolecular structures located in the nucleolus and containing 50-100 RNA polymerases together with the nascent pre-rRNA attached to the rDNA. It has not previously been possible to visualize nucleolar transcription units directly in intact nucleoli, although highly spread preparations in the electron microscope have been imaged as "Christmas trees" 2-3 microm long. Here we determine the relative conformation of individual transcription units in Pisum sativum plant nucleoli using a novel labelling technique. Nascent transcripts were detected by a highly sensitive silver-enhanced 1 nm gold procedure, followed by 3D electron microscopy of entire nucleoli. Individual transcription units are seen as conical, elongated clusters approximately 300 nm in length and 130 nm in width at the thickest end. We further show that there were approximately 300 active ribosomal genes in the nucleoli examined. The underlying chromatin structure of the transcribing rDNA was directly visualized by applying a novel limited extraction procedure to fixed specimens in order to wash out the proteins and RNA, thus specifically revealing DNA strands after uranyl acetate staining. Using this technique, followed by post-embedding in situ hybridization, we observed that the nucleolar rDNA fibres are not extended but show a coiled, thread-like appearance. Our results show for the first time that native rDNA transcription units are linear, compacted Christmas trees.
The chloroplasts of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii were transformed using a vector (paadAGUS4.1) that contained a spectinomycin-resistance gene (aadA) as a selectable gene, and bacterial uidA (GUS) as a reporter gene, and pea 4.1 kb D-loop containing sequence. The vector was introduced into the alga through particle gun bombardment. The transformed colonies were screened for the presence of foreign genes by Southern hybridization using GUS, aadA and 4.1 pea Ori probes. Expression of aadA and GUS genes was detected in all colonies that were grown on spectinomycin. A detailed restriction analysis followed by southern hybridization of total genomic DNA using pea 4.1 kb D-loop as probe indicated that the D-loop sequence can serve in site-specific integration of foreign DNA due to high homology. Restriction analysis of different colonies showed that the foreign DNA was probably present in a mixture population of autonomous segment and integrated in the native chloroplast genome.
The transition from the carpel of the flower to a developing fruit is a poorly characterized process despite its agricultural importance. We have identified two genes, GIC19 and GIC4, which are expressed after induction of pea (Pisum sativum L.) fruit set either by exogenous gibberellins or by pollination. GIC19 expression is temporally and spatially regulated, with transcripts mainly found in growing carpels and young fruit. Similar to GIC19, GIC4 expression is developmentally regulated during carpel and fruit development. However, GIC4 transcripts are found in other growing tissues throughout the plant. Analysis of their sequences and localization of fusion proteins with GFP indicate that both GIC19 and GIC4 are extracellular proteins. While GIC19 is a small proline-rich protein with no overall homology to other reported proteins. GIC4 belongs to a novel family of proteins. Our results reinforce a model of gibberellin mode of action during pea fruit set and development involving enhanced synthesis of extracellular proteins and secretory activity to provide materials and energy for cell growth.
The techniques of differential fluorescence induction (DFI) and optical trapping (OT) have been combined to allow the identification of environmentally induced genes in single bacterial cells. Designated DFI-OT, this technique allows the in situ isolation of genes driving the expression of green fluorescent protein (Gfp) using temporal and spatial criteria. A series of plasmid-based promoter probe vectors (pOT) was developed for the construction of random genomic libraries that are linked to gfpUV or egfp. Bacteria that do not express Gfp on laboratory medium (i.e. non-fluorescent) were inoculated into the environment, and induced genes were detected with a combined fluorescence/optical trapping microscope. Using this selection strategy, rhizosphere-induced genes with homology to thiamine pyrophosphorylase (thiE) and cyclic glucan synthase (ndvB) were isolated. Other genes were expressed late in the stationary phase or as a consequence of surface-dependent growth, including fixND and metX, and a putative ABC transporter of putrescine. This strategy provides a unique ability to combine spatial, temporal and physical information to identify environmental regulation of bacterial gene expression.
Using a homologous chloroplast translation system, we have reconstituted insertion and processing of the chloroplast-encoded thylakoid protein cytochrome f (pCytf). Cross-linking demonstrated that pCytf nascent chains when attached to the 70 S ribosome tightly interact with cpSecA, but this is strictly dependent on thylakoid membranes and a functional signal peptide. This indicates that cpSecA is only operative in pCytf biogenesis when it is bound to the membrane, most likely as part of the Sec translocon. No evidence for interaction between the 54-kDa subunit of the chloroplast signal recognition particle (cpSRP) and the pCytf nascent chain could be detected, suggesting that pCytf, in contrast to the polytopic D1 protein, does not require cpSRP for targeting. Insertion of pCytf occurred only co-translationally, resulting in processing and accumulation of both the processed signal peptide and the mature protein in the thylakoid. This co-translational membrane insertion and processing required a functional signal peptide and was inhibited by azide, demonstrating that cpSecA is essential for translocation of the soluble luminal domain. pCytf also associated post-translationally with thylakoids, but the soluble N-terminal domain could not be translocated into the lumen. This is the first study in which synthesis, targeting, and insertion of a chloroplast-encoded thylakoid membrane protein is reconstituted from exogenous transcripts and using the chloroplast translational machinery.
The gram-negative soil bacteria Rhizobium spp. infect and establish a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis with legume crops which involves the mutual exchange of diffusable signal molecules. In this study, Rhizobium leguminosarum containing a nod-lacZ gene fusion was used to screen the most effective plant-to-bacteria signal molecules for pea and lentil and the induction conditions. Out of a number of signal compounds including apigenin, daidzein, genistein, hesperetin, kaempferol, luteolin, naringenin, and rutin, hesperetin and naringenin were found to be the most effective plant-to-bacteria signal molecules. The induction of nod genes was temperature-dependent, where nod gene induction was decreased with dropping incubation temperature. The combination of hesperetin at 7 microM and naringenin at 3 microM resulted in better induction of nod gene activities compared to either hesperetin or naringenin alone. Nodulation and plant dry matter accumulation of pea and lentil plants receiving preinduced R. leguminosarum were higher than those of plants receiving uninduced R. leguminosarum cells in controlled environment growth chamber conditions. Preinduced Rhizobium with hesperetin at a concentration of 10 microM increased nodule number on average by 60.5% and dry matter accumulation by 14% in field pea at 17 degrees C, while it was 32% and 9% at 24 degrees C, respectively. Similarly, averaged over two rhizobial strains, a 59% and 6% increase in nodule number and biomass production at 17 degrees C, and a 39% and 27% at 24 degrees C, were obtained from lentil inoculated with hesperetin-induced R. leguminosarum, respectively.
The photosystem I subunit PsaK spans the thylakoid membrane twice, with the N and C termini both located in the lumen. The insertion mechanism of a thylakoid membrane protein adopting this type of topology has not been studied before, and we have used in vitro assays to determine the requirements for PsaK insertion into thylakoids. PsaK inserts with high efficiency and we show that one transmembrane span (the C-terminal region) can insert independently of the other, indicating that a "hairpin"-type mechanism is not essential. Insertion of PsaK does not require stromal extract, indicating that signal recognition particle (SRP) is not involved. Removal of nucleoside triphosphates inhibits insertion only slightly, both in the presence and absence of stroma, suggesting a mild stimulatory effect of a factor in the translation system and again ruling out an involvement of SRP or its partner protein, FtsY. We, furthermore, find no evidence for the involvement of known membrane-bound translocation apparatus; proteolysis of thylakoids destroys the Sec and Tat translocons but does not block PsaK insertion, and antibodies against the Oxa1/YidC homolog, Alb3, block the SRP-dependent insertion of Lhcb1 but again have no effect on PsaK insertion. Because YidC is required for the efficient insertion of every membrane protein tested in Escherichia coli (whether SRP-dependent or -independent), PsaK is the first protein identified as being independent of YidC/Alb3-type factors in either thylakoids or bacteria. The data raise the possibility of a wholly spontaneous insertion pathway.
Peptides with a molecular weight of 5 kDa have been isolated from seeds of the pinto bean and red bean, respectively. The peptides manifest an N-terminal sequence with remarkable resemblance to those of cowpea 10-kDa protein precursor and garden pea disease resistance response protein. The bean peptides possess potent antifungal activity toward a variety of fungal species including Botrytis cinerea, Mycosphaerella arachidicola, and Fusarium oxysporum. The proteins also demonstrate mitogenic activity toward mouse splenocytes and an inhibitory action on HIV-1 reverse transcriptase.
The nuclei of plant cells show marked differences in chromatin organisation, related to their DNA content, which ranges from the type with large strands of condensed chromatin (reticulate or chromonematic nuclei) to one with mostly decondensed chromatin (chromocentric or diffuse nuclei). A loosening of the chromatin structure generally occurs in actively metabolising cells, such as differentiating and secretory cells, in relation to their high transcriptional activity. Endoreduplication may occur, especially in plants with a small genome, which increases the availability of nuclear templates, the synthesis of DNA, and probably regulates gene expression. Here we describe structural and quantitative changes of the chromatin and their relationship with transcription that occur in differentiated cells following an increase of their metabolism. The nuclei of root cortical cells of three plants with different 2C DNA content (Allium porrum, Pisum sativum and Lycopersicon esculentum) and their modifications induced by arbuscular mycorrhization, which strongly increase the metabolic activity of colonised cells, are taken as examples.
Leguminous plants establish endosymbiotic associations with both rhizobia (nitrogen fixation) and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (phosphate uptake). These associations involve controlled entry of the soil microsymbiont into the root and the coordinated differentiation of the respective partners to generate the appropriate exchange interfaces. As part of a study to evaluate analogies at the molecular level between these two plant-microbe interactions, we focused on genes from Medicago truncatula encoding putative cell wall repetitive proline-rich proteins (RPRPs) expressed during the early stages of root nodulation. Here we report that a novel RPRP-encoding gene, MtENOD11, is transcribed during preinfection and infection stages of nodulation in root and nodule tissues. By means of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and a promoter-reporter gene strategy, we demonstrate that this gene is also expressed during root colonization by endomycorrhizal fungi in inner cortical cells containing recently formed arbuscules. In contrast, no activation of MtENOD11 is observed during root colonization by a nonsymbiotic, biotrophic Rhizoctonia fungal species. Analysis of transgenic Medicago spp. plants expressing pMtENOD11-gusA also revealed that this gene is transcribed in a variety of nonsymbiotic specialized cell types in the root, shoot, and developing seed, either sharing high secretion/metabolite exchange activity or subject to regulated modifications in cell shape. The potential role of early nodulins with atypical RPRP structures such as ENOD11 and ENOD12 in symbiotic and nonsymbiotic cellular contexts is discussed.
The filamentous fungus Nectria haematococca (anamorph Fusarium solani f. sp. pisi) resides in soil, and attacks pea seedlings in the area of the underground epicotyl and upper tap root, causing foot rot disease. We detected lipase activity during in vitro growth of N. haematococca. Subsequently, a lipase gene was cloned and functionally characterised by heterologous expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The full-length cDNA of 1152 bp was cloned using a 3' RACE-PCR approach coupled with cDNA library screening. The genomic clone, comprising an ORF of 999 bp interrupted by two introns of 56 and 64 bp, was isolated from a newly constructed lambda phage library. Analysis of the deduced protein sequence revealed the presence of a typical signal peptide at the N-terminus, and of the three conserved amino acids forming the active site of lipases. The lipase of N. haematococca has a low degree of similarity to the lipases from Humicola lanuginosa (37.2%), Rhizomucor miehei (21.6%), Rhizopus delemar (23.1%), Rhizopus niveus (25.9%), and to mono- and diacylglycerol lipase from Penicillium camembertii (30.8%), and very high similarity (94.6%) to a lipase from Fusarium heterosporum. The lipase from N. haematococca shows maximal activity at 37 degrees C and pH 8.0. Based on Southern analysis, the lipase clone represents a single-copy gene in N. haematococca. Expression analysis was performed by RT-PCR. In vitro, the lipase gene shows a low basal expression, but is highly inducible by lipase substrates, and repressed by glucose. During plant infection, transcripts of this fungal lipase gene were detected 4, 8, and 10 days after infection.
Differences in knotted1-like (knox) gene expression may account for some of the diversity of leaf forms seen in nature. Class 1 knox genes are expressed in the compound leaf primordia of tomato but not in the simple leaf primordia of a range of species examined so far. In order to test the hypothesis that all compound leaves differ from simple leaves in this way, we isolated a class 1 knox cDNA from pea, Pskn1 (Pisum sativum knotted1) and examined its expression pattern. The encoded homeodomain of Pskn1 shares 88% identical residues with KNOTTED1 from maize and an adjacent ELK domain is present. The protein sequence of PSKN1 is 69% identical to TKN2, its nearest related sequence in tomato. Unlike TKn2, Pskn1 was not expressed in newly initiated compound leaves. The expression pattern of Pskn1 resembled those of other class 1 knox genes described in maize and Arabidopsis. Transcripts were detected in the shoot apical meristem and developing vasculature of the vegetative shoot, but expression was not detected in newly initiated and developing compound leaf primordia. The same pattern of expression was observed in the afila mutant, which is characterised by highly ramified compound leaves. Our results suggest that tomato and pea use different developmental processes in the generation of their compound leaves.
The COP9 signalosome is an evolutionary conserved multiprotein complex of unknown function that acts as a negative regulator of photomorphogenic seedling development in Arabidopsis. Here, we show that plants with reduced COP9 signalosome levels had decreased auxin response similar to loss-of-function mutants of the E3 ubiquitin ligase SCFTIR1. Furthermore, we found that the COP9 signalosome and SCFTIR1 interacted in vivo and that the COP9 signalosome was required for efficient degradation of PSIAA6, a candidate substrate of SCFTIR1. Thus, the COP9 signalosome may play an important role in mediating E3 ubiquitin ligase-mediated responses.
Certain mutants of shoot gravitropism were reported to be ascribed to the SCR and SHR loci in Arabidopsis thaliana. The SCR gene was known to regulate the development of endodermis cells that are responsible for sensing gravity in a shoot. With the aim of elucidating the molecular mechanism for gravitropic responses in pea seedlings, we have isolated a putative pea SCR ortholog from a shoot cDNA library. Analyses of the cDNA clones revealed the structure of a full-length ORF coding for 819 amino acid residues. A remarkable feature of pea SCR protein was the presence of asparagine stretches at the N-terminal transcriptional activation domain, which was distinct from the occurrence of glutamine or alanine stretches in the Arabidopsis or maize SCR. A Northern blot analysis revealed a single 3.2-kb pea SCR transcript in addition to a closely related 2.5-kb transcript. Our in situ hybridization data indicated that pea SCR mRNA accumulated in the shoot apical meristem, leaf primordia and a root single cell layer corresponding to the endodermis. The expression patterns were similar to those reported for A. thaliana and Zea mays, suggesting that SCR may be functionally conserved among plants and involved in the differentiation of the endodermis.
The apical hook of dark-grown dicotyledonous plants results from asymmetric growth of its inner and outer sides. It is a protective structure that prevents damage to the shoot apical meristem and the young leaves as the seedling pushes through the soil. Two phytohormones, ethylene and auxin, are thought to be involved in regulating apical hook formation. HOOKLESS1 (HLS1) of Arabidopsis was recognized as an ethylene-response gene whose product is required for hook formation. We cloned two cDNAs from peas, Ps-HLS1 and Ps-HLS2, whose products are functional homologs of HLS1. Both Ps-HLS1 and Ps-HLS2 complement the hls1 mutation in Arabidopsis. Expression of Ps-HLS1 is enhanced by ethylene and by IAA. Because the effect of ethylene is counteracted by 2,5-norbornadiene, an inhibitor of ethylene action, it appears that the primary factor in apical hook formation in peas is ethylene.
Summary DNase released from Fusarium solani f. sp. phaseoli (Fsph DNase) has previously been reported to induce pathogenesis-related (PR) genes, phytoalexin accumulation and disease resistance against subsequent challenge with the true pea pathogen, Fusarium solani f. sp. pisi (Fspi). This report is a further analysis of DNase production with probes specific for both the gene and protein. N-terminal analysis of the approximately 20 kDa Fsph DNase protein facilitated both the development of anti-Fsph DNase antiserum and the cloning of the Fsph DNase gene. Utilizing the anti-Fsph DNase antiserum to prepare an affinity column, we demonstrated that the retention and recovery of the DNase activity was associated with this protein. Fsph DNase protein was detectable by Western analysis in both the fungi and plant cytoplasm within 6-8 h following inoculation of the pea endocarp surface. Partially purified DNase detected via catalytic activity began accumulating within pea tissue at 3 h post-inoculation. Enhanced fragmentation of pea DNA occurred within 5 h following treatment of pods with Fsph DNase or inoculations with the two fungi. DNA cleavage within the nuclei of endocarp pea cells was detectable via a TUNEL assay at 3 h post-inoculation. As a result of these findings, we propose that the entrance of Fsph DNase into the pea cell and the signalling of plant defence responses is temporally associated with the damage of host DNA.
The chloroplast is the hallmark organelle of plants. It performs photosynthesis and is therefore required for photoautotrophic plant growth. The chloroplast is the most prominent member of a family of related organelles termed plastids which are ubiquitous in plant cells. Biogenesis of the chloroplast from undifferentiated proplastids is induced by light. The generally accepted endosymbiont hypothesis states that chloroplasts have arisen from an internalized cyanobacterial ancestor. Although chloroplasts have maintained remnants of the ancestral genome (plastome), the vast majority of the genes encoding chloroplast proteins have been transferred to the nucleus. This poses two major challenges to the plant cell during chloroplast biogenesis: First, light and developmental signals must be interpreted to coordinately express genetic information contained in two distinct compartments. This is to ensure supply and stoichiometry of abundant chloroplast components. Second, developing chloroplasts must efficiently import nuclear encoded and cytosolically synthesized proteins. A subset of proteins, including such encoded by the plastome, must further be sorted to the thylakoid compartments for assembly into the photosynthetic apparatus.
In this report, the expression of late symbiotic genes (fnrN, fixN, and nifA) of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae was studied in nodules of mutant pea lines blocked at four successive stages of nodule development. Bacterial gene expression was analyzed in situ with transcriptional gusA reporter gene fusions. As a control, a constitutively expressed gusA gene was included. In the nodules of Nop(nodule persistence) mutants (mutant in gene sym13), which had not yet exhibited signs of premature senescence, the expression patterns observed were identical to those in wild-type nodules. Normal expression of fusions also occurred in nodules defective at the infection droplet differentiation stage (mutant in gene sym40) in which bacteria are endocytosed, but infection threads and infection droplets are hypertrophied. In contrast, in Itn- (infection thread formation inside the nodule tissue) mutants (mutant gene sym33), in which there is no endocytosis of bacteria, expression of the constitutive fusion was only in infection threads and no activity was shown for the other fusions. From this it can be concluded that functionality of the plant gene Sym33, i.e., bacterial endocytosis, is a prerequisite for the expression of late symbiotic genes in the microsymbiont. No morphologically distinct interzone II-III could be detected in nodules blocked at the bacteroid differentiation stage (mutants in gene sym31). The constitutive fusion was expressed equally throughout the nodule tissue (except for the meristem), and the activity of fusions to late symbiotic genes increased gradually with a maximal expression level at the base of the nodule. This is consistent with an altered oxygen barrier previously reported for these nodules. By including double mutants, earlier results on sequential functioning of gene pairs sym33-sym40 and sym31-sym13 could be confirmed and it could be demonstrated that the developmental epistasis found at the morphological level also is reflected in the expression pattern of late symbiotic genes in the microsymbiont.
Preprotein translocation across the outer and inner envelope membranes of chloroplasts is an energy-dependent process requiring ATP hydrolysis. Several precursor proteins analyzed so far have been found to be imported into isolated chloroplasts equally well in the dark in the presence of ATP as in the light where ATP is supplied by photophosphorylation in the chloroplasts themselves. We demonstrate here that precursors of two maize (Zea mays L. cv Golden Cross Bantam) ferredoxin isoproteins, pFdI and pFdIII, show distinct characteristics of import into maize chloroplasts. pFdI, a photosynthetic ferredoxin precursor, was efficiently imported into the stroma of isolated maize chloroplasts both in the light and in the dark. In contrast pFdIII, a non-photosynthetic ferredoxin precursor, was mostly mis-sorted to the intermembrane space of chloroplastic envelopes as an unprocessed precursor form in the light but was efficiently imported into the stroma and processed to its mature form in the dark. The mis-sorted pFdIII, which accumulated in the intermembrane space in the light, could not undergo subsequent import into the stroma in the dark, even in the presence of ATP. However, when the mis-sorted pFdIII was recovered and used for a separate import reaction, pFdIII was capable of import into the chloroplasts in the dark. pFNRII, a ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase isoprotein precursor, showed import characteristics similar to those of pFdIII. Moreover, pFdIII exhibited similar import characteristics with chloroplasts isolated from wheat (Pennisetum americanum) and pea (Pisum sativum cv Alaska). These findings suggest that the translocation of precursor proteins across the envelope membranes of chloroplasts may involve substrate-dependent light-regulated mechanisms.
Plastidial acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase from most plants is a multi-enzyme complex comprised of four different subunits. One of these subunits, the biotin carboxyl carrier protein (BCCP), was previously proposed to be encoded by a single gene in Arabidopsis. We report and characterize here a second Arabidopsis BCCP (AtBCCP2) cDNA with 42% amino acid identity to AtBCCP1 and 75% identity to a class of oilseed rape (Brassica napus) BCCPs. Both Arabidopsis BCCP isoforms were expressed in Escherichia coli and found to be biotinylated and supported carboxylation activity when reconstituted with purified, recombinant Arabidopsis biotin carboxylase. In vitro translated AtBCCP2 was competent for import into pea (Pisum sativum) chloroplasts and processed to a 25-kD polypeptide. Extracts of Arabidopsis seeds contained biotinylated polypeptides of 35 and 25 kD, in agreement with the masses of recombinant AtBCCP1 and 2, respectively. AtBCCP1 protein was present in developing tissues from roots, leaves, flowers, siliques, and seeds, whereas AtBCCP2 protein was primarily expressed in 7 to 10 d-after-flowering seeds at levels approximately 2-fold less abundant than AtBCCP1. AtBCCP1 transcript reflected these protein expression profiles present in all developing organs and highest in 14-d leaves and siliques, whereas AtBCCP2 transcript was present in flowers and siliques. In protein blots, four different BCCP isoforms were detected in developing seeds from oilseed rape. Of these, a 35-kD BCCP was detected in immature leaves and developing seeds, whereas developing seeds also contained 22-, 25-, and 37-kD isoforms highly expressed 21 d after flowering. These data indicate that oilseed plants in the family Brassicaceae contain at least one to three seed-up-regulated BCCP isoforms, depending upon genome complexity.
The chromatin structure of the pea plastocyanin gene (PetE) was examined at three different transcriptional states by investigating the acetylation states of histones H3 and H4 and the nuclease accessibility of the gene in pea roots, etiolated shoots, and green shoots. The acetylation states of histones associated with different regions of PetE were analyzed by chromatin immunoprecipitation with antibodies specific for acetylated or nonacetylated histone H3 or H4 tails, followed by polymerase chain reaction quantification. Comparison of pea tissues indicated that histone hyperacetylation was associated with increased PetE transcription in green shoots. Moreover, hyperacetylation of both histones H3 and H4 was targeted to the enhancer/promoter region in green shoots, suggesting that only specific nucleosomes along the gene were modified. Time-course digestions of nuclei with micrococcal nuclease and DNaseI indicated that the enhancer/promoter region was more resistant to digestion in the inactive gene in pea roots than was the same region in the active gene in shoots, whereas the transcribed region of PetE was digested similarly among the tissues. This finding indicates that transcription is accompanied by changes in the nuclease accessibility of the enhancer/promoter region only. Moreover, these results indicate that the changes in nuclease accessibility are organ specific, whereas histone hyperacetylation is light dependent, and they suggest that changes in nuclease accessibility precede histone hyperacetylation during PetE activation.
A cDNA (Vupat1) encoding a predicted 43 kDa protein was isolated from drought-stressed cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) leaves. It has homology with patatin, a potato tuber storage protein with lipolytic acyl hydrolase activity. The recombinant protein VUPAT1 expressed in the baculovirus system displays preferentially galactolipid acyl hydrolase activity. Phospholipids are very slowly hydrolyzed and apparently triacylglycerols are not deacylated. Vupat1 promoter contains putative drought-inducible sequences. Northern blots showed that gene expression is stimulated by drought stress and is more pronounced in a drought-sensitive cultivar than in a drought-tolerant one. An involvement in drought-induced galactolipid degradation is proposed for VUPAT1.
We report the cloning and sequencing of both cDNA and genomic DNA of a 33 kDa chloroplast ribonucleoprotein (33RNP) from pea. The analysis of the predicted amino acid sequence of the cDNA clone revealed that the encoded protein contains two RNA binding domains, including the conserved consensus ribonucleoprotein sequences CS-RNP1 and CS-RNP2, on the C-terminus half and the presence of a putative transit peptide sequence in the N-terminus region. The phylogenetic and multiple sequence alignment analysis of pea chloroplast RNP along with RNPs reported from the other plant sources revealed that the pea 33RNP is very closely related to Nicotiana sylvestris 31RNP and 28RNP and also to 31RNP and 28RNP of Arabidopsis and spinach, respectively. The pea 33RNP was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified to homogeneity. The in vitro import of precursor protein into chloroplasts confirmed that the N-terminus putative transit peptide is a bona fide transit peptide and 33RNP is localized in the chloroplast. The nucleic acid-binding properties of the recombinant protein, as revealed by South-Western analysis, showed that 33RNP has higher binding affinity for poly (U) and oligo dT than for ssDNA and dsDNA. The steady state transcript level was higher in leaves than in roots and the expression of this gene is light stimulated. Sequence analysis of the genomic clone revealed that the gene contains four exons and three introns. We have also isolated and analyzed the 5' flanking region of the pea 33RNP gene.
Recombinant plasmids encoding 3-deoxy-D-manno-oct-2-ulosonate-8-phosphate (Kdo-8-P) synthase (KdsA; EC 4.1.2.16) were identified from a cDNA library of Pisum sativum L. (pea) by complementing a temperature-sensitive kdsA(ts) mutant of the Gram-negative bacterium Salmonella enterica. Sequence analysis of several inserts revealed a central open reading frame encoding a protein of 290 amino acids with a high degree of amino acid sequence similarity to bacterial KdsA. The cDNA was confirmed by amplifying a 1,812-bp DNA fragment from the chromosome of pea that encoded four exons around the 5'-end of kdsA. The recombinant enzyme was subcloned, overexpressed and characterized to synthesize Kdo-8-P from D-arabinose-5-phosphate and phosphoenolpyruvate. The pH optimum was 6.1 and the activity of the enzyme was neither stimulated by the addition of divalent cations nor inhibited by EDTA. The cDNA of kdsA could not complement Escherichia coli K-12 strain AB3257, which is defective in all three isoenzymes (AroFGH) of 3-deoxy-D-arabino-hept-2-ulosonate-7-phosphate (Dha-7-P) synthase (EC 4.1.2.15), and neither D-erythrose-4-phosphate nor D-ribose-5-phosphate could substitute for D-arabinose-5-phosphate in vitro. Thus, plant cells possess a specific enzyme for the biosynthesis of Kdo-8-P with remarkable structural and functional similarities to bacterial KdsA proteins.
In order to ascertain whether there is one site for the import of precursor proteins into chloroplasts or whether different precursor proteins are imported via different import machineries, chloroplasts were incubated with large quantities of the precursor of the 33 kDa subunit of the oxygen-evolving complex (pOE33) or the precursor of the light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (pLHCP) and tested for their ability to import a wide range of other chloroplast precursor proteins. Both pOE33 and pLHCP competed for import into chloroplasts with precursors of the stromally-targeted small subunit of Rubisco (pSSu), ferredoxin NADP(+) reductase (pFNR) and porphobilinogen deaminase; the thylakoid membrane proteins LHCP and the Rieske iron-sulphur protein (pRieske protein); ferrochelatase and the gamma subunit of the ATP synthase (which are both associated with the thylakoid membrane); the thylakoid lumenal protein plastocyanin and the phosphate translocator, an integral membrane protein of the inner envelope. The concentrations of pOE33 or pLHCP required to cause half-maximal inhibition of import ranged between 0.2 and 4.9 microM. These results indicate that all of these proteins are imported into the chloroplast by a common import machinery. Incubation of chloroplasts with pOE33 inhibited the formation of early import intermediates of pSSu, pFNR and pRieske protein.
We have produced a model to define the linoleate-binding pocket of pea 9/13-lipoxygenase and have validated it by the construction and characterization of eight point mutants. Three of the mutations reduced, to varying degrees, the catalytic centre activity (kcat) of the enzyme with linoleate. In two of the mutants, reductions in turnover were associated with changes in iron-coordination. Multiple sequence alignments of recombinant plant and mammalian lipoxygenases of known positional specificity, and the results from numerous other mutagenesis and modelling studies, have been combined to discuss the possible role of the mutated residues in pea 9/13-lipoxygenase catalysis. A new nomenclature for recombinant plant lipoxygenases based on positional specificity has subsequently been proposed. The null-effect of mutating pea 9/13-lipoxygenase at the equivalent residue to that which controlled dual positional specificity in cucumber 13/9-lipoxygenase, strongly suggests that the mechanisms controlling dual positional specificity in pea 9/13-lipoxygenase and cucumber 13/9-lipoxygenase are different. This was supported from modelling of another isoform of pea lipoxygenase, pea 13/9-lipoxygenase. Dual positional specificity in pea lipoxygenases is more likely to be determined by the degree of penetration of the methyl terminus of linoleate and the volume of the linoleate-binding pocket rather than substrate orientation. A single model for positional specificity, that has proved to be inappropriate for arachidonate-binding to mammalian 5-, 12- and 15-lipoxygenases, would appear to be true also for linoleate-binding to plant 9- and 13-lipoxygenases.
We have transformed varieties of wheat with a Pisum sativum glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase gene, and also with an Arabidopsis thaliana acyl-ACP thioesterase gene. Morphological (growth, organelle development) and metabolic changes (fatty acid labelling of chloroplast and non-chloroplast lipids) have been observed in transgenics with altered gene expression for either enzyme.
Structural features of cytochrome f necessary for assembly into the cytochrome bf complex were examined in isolated pea chloroplasts following import of (35)S-labelled chimeric precursor proteins, consisting of the presequence of the small subunit of Rubisco fused to the turnip cytochrome f precursor. Assembly was detected by nondenaturing gel electrophoresis of dodecyl maltoside-solubilized thylakoid membranes. A cytochrome f polypeptide unable to bind haem because of mutagenesis of Cys21 and Cys24 to alanine residues was assembled into the complex and had similar stability to the wild-type polypeptide. This indicates that covalent haem binding to cytochrome f is not necessary for assembly of the protein into the cytochrome bf complex. A truncated protein lacking the C-terminal 33 amino acid residues, including the transmembrane span and the stroma-exposed region, was translocated across the thylakoid membrane, had a similar stability to wild-type cytochrome f but was not assembled into the complex. This indicates that the C-terminal region of cytochrome f is important for assembly into the complex. A mutant cytochrome f unable to bind haem and lacking the C-terminal region was also translocated across the thylakoid membrane but was extremely labile, indicating that, in the absence of the C-terminal membrane anchor, haem-less cytochrome f is recognized by a thylakoid proteolytic system.
Ferredoxin-1 (Fed-1) mRNA contains an internal light response element (iLRE) that destabilizes mRNA when light-grown plants are placed in darkness. mRNAs containing this element dissociate from polyribosomes in the leaves of transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants transferred to the dark for 2 d. Here, we report in vivo labeling experiments with a chloramphenicol acetyl transferase mRNA fused to the Fed-1 iLRE. Our data indicate that the Fed-1 iLRE mediates a rapid decline in translational efficiency and that iLRE-containing mRNAs dissociate from polyribosomes within 20 min after plants are transferred to darkness. Both events occur before the decline in mRNA abundance, and polyribosome association is rapidly reversible if plants are re-illuminated. These observations support a model in which Fed-1 mRNA in illuminated leaves is stabilized by its association with polyribosomes, and/or by translation. In darkness a large portion of the mRNA dissociates from polyribosomes and is subsequently degraded. We also show that a significant portion of total tobacco leaf mRNA is shifted from polyribosomal to non-polyribosomal fractions after 20 min in the dark, indicating that translation of other mRNAs is also rapidly down-regulated in response to darkness. This class includes some, but not all, cytoplasmic mRNAs encoding proteins involved in photosynthesis.
Pea (Pisum sativum L. cv Alcan) endocarp tissue challenged with an incompatible fungal pathogen, Fusarium solani f. sp. phaseoli or fungal elicitors results in the induction of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes and the accumulation of pisatin, a phytoalexin. Essentially the same response occurs in pea tissue exposed to DNA-specific agents that crosslink or intercalate DNA. In this study, the effects of DNA-damaging agents were assessed relative to the inducible expression of several pea PR genes: phenylalanine ammonia lyase, chalcone synthase, and DRR206. Mitomycin C and actinomycin D mimicked the biotic elicitors in enhancing the expression of all three PR genes. The activities of these PR gene promoters, isolated from different plants, were evaluated heterologously in transgenic tobacco. It is remarkable that beta-glucuronidase expression was induced when plants containing the heterologous phenylalanine ammonia lyase, chalcone synthase, and DRR206 promoter-beta-glucuronidase chimeric reporter genes were treated by DNA-damaging agents. Finally, cytological analyses indicated that many of these agents caused nuclear distortion and collapse of the treated pea cells. Yet we observed that cell death is not necessary for the induction of the PR gene promoters assessed in this study. Based on these observations and previously published results, we propose that DNA damage or the associated alteration of chromatin can signal the transcriptional activation of plant defense genes.
Isolation and characterization of two severe alleles at the Stamina pistilloida (Stp) locus reveals that Stp is involved in a wide range of developmental processes in the garden pea. The most severe allele, stp-4, results in flowers consisting almost entirely of sepals and carpels. Production of ectopic secondary flowers in stp-4 plants suggests that Stp is involved in specifying floral meristem identity in pea. The stp mutations also reduce the complexity of the compound pea leaf, and primary inflorescences often terminate prematurely in an aberrant sepaloid flower. In addition, stp mutants were shorter than their wild-type siblings due to a reduction in cell number in their internodes. Fewer cells were also found in the epidermis of the leaf rachis of stp mutants. Examination of the effects of stp-4 in double mutant combinations with af, tl, det, and veg2-2-mutations known to influence leaf, inflorescence, and flower development in pea-suggests that Stp function is independent of these genes. A synergistic interaction between weak mutant alleles at Stp and Uni indicated that these two genes act together, possibly to regulate primordial growth. Molecular analysis revealed that Stp is the pea homolog of the Antirrhinum gene Fimbriata (Fim) and of UNUSUAL FLORAL ORGANS (UFO) from Arabidopsis. Differences between Fim/UFO and Stp mutant phenotypes and expression patterns suggest that expansion of Stp activity into the leaf was an important step during evolution of the compound leaf in the garden pea.
The abundance of plant nucleolin mRNA is regulated during de-etiolation by phytochrome. A close correlation between the mRNA abundance of nucleolin and mitosis has also been previously reported. These results raised the question of whether the effects of light on nucleolin mRNA expression were a consequence of light effects on mitosis. To test this we compared the kinetics of light-mediated increases in cell proliferation with that of light-mediated changes in the abundance of nucleolin mRNA using plumules of dark-grown pea (Pisum sativum) seedlings. These experiments show that S-phase increases 9 h after a red light pulse, followed by M-phase increases in the plumule leaves at 12 h post-irradiation, a time course consistent with separately measured kinetics of red light-induced increases in the expression of cell cycle-regulated genes. These increases in cell cycle-regulated genes are photoreversible, implying that the light-induced increases in cell proliferation are, like nucleolin mRNA expression, regulated via phytochrome. Red light stimulates increases in the mRNA for nucleolin at 6 h post-irradiation, prior to any cell proliferation changes and concurrent with the reported timing of phytochrome-mediated increases of rRNA abundance. After a green light pulse, nucleolin mRNA levels increase without increasing S-phase or M-phase. Studies in animals and yeast indicate that nucleolin plays a significant role in ribosome biosynthesis. Consistent with this function, pea nucleolin can rescue nucleolin deletion mutants of yeast that are defective in rRNA synthesis. Our data show that during de-etiolation, the increased expression of nucleolin mRNA is more directly regulated by light than by mitosis.
A cDNA encoding a pea nuclear apyrase was previously cloned. Overexpressions of a full-length and a truncated cDNA have been successfully expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3). The resulting fusion proteins, apyrase and the C-terminus (residues 315-453) of apyrase, were used for calmodulin (CaM) binding and phosphorylation studies. Fusion protein apyrase but not the C-terminus of apyrase can be recognized by polyclonal antibody pc480. This suggested that the motif recognized by pc480 was located in the N-terminal region of apyrase. The recombinant apyrase protein also showed an activity 70 times higher than that of endogenous apyrase using ATP as a substrate. The recombinant apyrase has a preference for ATP more than other nucleoside triphosphate substrates. CaM can bind to recombinant apyrase, but not to the C-terminus of apyrase. This implies that the CaM-binding domain must be in the first 315 amino acids of the N-terminal region of apyrase. We found that one segment from residue 293 to 308 was a good candidate for the CaM-binding domain. This segment 293 FNKCKNTIRKALKLNY 308 has a basic amphiphilic-helical structure, which shows the predominance of basic residues on one side and hydrophobic residues on the other when displayed on a helical wheel plot. Using the gel mobility shift binding assay, this synthetic peptide was shown to bind to CaM, indicating that it is the CaM-binding domain. Both recombinant apyrase and the C-terminus of apyrase can be phosphorylated by a recombinant human protein kinase CKII. Phosphorylation does not affect CaM binding to recombinant apyrase. However, CaM does inhibit CKII phosphorylation of recombinant apyrase and this inhibition can be blocked by 5 mM EGTA.
PsMAPK3, a new MAP kinase cDNA, was cloned from ovaries of Pisum sativum L. Expression of PsMAPK3 is at low basal levels in unpollinated ovaries but it is rapidly induced by gibberellic acid (peak at 30 min) and 6-benzyladenine (peak at 45 min). Both treatments promoted the development of a parthenocarpic fruit. In situ hybridization localized PsMAPK3 mRNA in ovules. The transcript was additionally detected in the mesocarp when it is expanding in response to the treatments. These observations suggest that gibberellins and cytokinins regulate PsMAPK3 mRNA levels in pea ovary shortly after fruit set is induced.
A disarmed Tn5 vector (pUT::Ptac-phzABCDEFG) was used to introduce a single copy of the genes responsible for phenazine-1-carboxylic acid (PCA) biosynthesis into the chromosome of a plant-growth-promoting rhizobacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens. The PCA gene cluster was modified for expression under a constitutive Ptac promoter and lacked the phzIR regulators. PCA-producing variants significantly improved the ability of the wild-type P. fluorescens to reduce damping-off disease of pea seedlings caused by Pythium ultimum, even under conditions of heavy soil infestation. Under conditions of oxygen limitation that are typical of the rhizosphere, PCA production per cell in vitro was greater than that recorded in fast-growing, nutrient-rich cultures. Similarly, when the in vitro nutrient supply was limited, P fluorescens::phz variants that produced the most PCA effectively competed against P. ultimum by suppressing mycelial development. Soil-based bioassays confirmed that the level of PCA biosynthesis correlated directly with the efficacy of biological control and the persistence of inocula in soil microcosms. They also showed that soil pretreatment with bacteria provides a suitable method for plant protection by reducing infection, effectively decontaminating the soil. These data demonstrate that the insertion of a single chromosomal copy of the genes for a novel antifungal compound, PCA, enhances the ecological fitness of a natural isolate already adapted to the rhizosphere and capable of suppressing fungal disease.
Plants respond to changing light conditions by altering the stoichiometry between components of the photosynthetic electron transport chain of chloroplast thylakoids. We measured specific run-on transcription of the chloroplast genes psaB, psbA and rbcL in pea (Pisum sativum L.) seedlings grown under three different conditions of illumination: light selective for photosystem I (PSI-light); light selective for photosystem II (PSII-light); and a combination of PSI- and PSII-light (mixed light, ML). The transcriptional rate of the psaB gene increased under PSII-light and decreased under PSI-light, while the transcriptional rates of the psbA and rbcL genes were affected only in a non-specific way. Similar effects also occurred in plants grown under ML and switched to either PSI- or PSII-light for 4 h. Addition of the inhibitors of photosynthetic electron transport 3-(3,4 dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea (DCMU) and 2,5-dibromo-3-methyl-6-isopropyl-p-benzoquinone (DBMIB) influenced psaB transcription in isolated, illuminated chloroplasts: DCMU addition resulted in oxidation of the plastoquinone pool and decreased transcription of psaB; DBMIB addition resulted in reduction of the plastoquinone pool and increased transcription of psaB. The experimental results obtained in vivo and in vitro provide evidence for coupling between the redox state of plastoquinone and the rate of transcription of the psaB gene in pea.
The pea lip1 (light-independent photomorphogenesis1) mutant shows many of the characteristics of light-grown development when grown in continuous darkness. To investigate the identity of LIP1, cDNAs encoding the pea homolog of COP1, a repressor of photomorphogenesis identified in Arabidopsis, were isolated from wild-type and lip1 pea seedlings. lip1 seedlings contained a wild-type COP1 transcript as well as a larger COP1' transcript that contained an internal in-frame duplication of 894 bp. The COP1' transcript segregated with the lip1 phenotype in F(2) seedlings and could be translated in vitro to produce a protein of approximately 100 kD. The COP1 gene in lip1 peas contained a 7.5-kb duplication, consisting of exons 1 to 7 of the wild-type sequence, located 2.5 kb upstream of a region of genomic DNA identical to the wild-type COP1 DNA sequence. Transcription and splicing of the mutant COP1 gene was predicted to produce the COP1' transcript, whereas transcription from an internal promoter in the 2.5-kb region of DNA located between the duplicated regions of COP1 would produce the wild-type COP1 transcript. The presence of small quantities of wild-type COP1 transcripts may reduce the severity of the phenotype produced by the mutated COP1' protein. The genomic DNA sequences of the COP1 gene from wild-type and lip1 peas and the cDNA sequences of COP1 and COP1' transcripts have been submitted to the EMBL database under the EMBL accession numbers AJ276591, AJ276592, AJ289773, and AJ289774, respectively.
The compound leaf primordium of pea represents a marginal blastozone that initiates organ primordia, in an acropetal manner, from its growing distal region. The UNIFOLIATA (UNI) gene is important in marginal blastozone maintenance because loss or reduction of its function results in uni mutant leaves of reduced complexity. In this study, we show that UNI is expressed in the leaf blastozone over the period in which organ primordia are initiated and is downregulated at the time of leaf primordium determination. Prolonged UNI expression was associated with increased blastozone activity in the complex leaves of afila (af), cochleata (coch), and afila tendril-less (af tl) mutant plants. Our analysis suggests that UNI expression is negatively regulated by COCH in stipule primordia, by AF in proximal leaflet primordia, and by AF and TL in distal and terminal tendril primordia. We propose that the control of UNI expression by AF, TL, and COCH is important in the regulation of blastozone activity and pattern formation in the compound leaf primordium of the pea.
In-gel protein kinase assays using myelin basic protein (MBP) as substrate have been used to demonstrate that abscisic acid (ABA) activates an MBP kinase (AMBP kinase) in epidermal peels prepared from leaves of the Argenteum mutant of pea, Pisum sativum L. AMBP kinase has the characteristics of a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK): it utilizes MBP preferentially as an artificial substrate, it is rapidly and transiently activated, it is of the appropriate size (molecular weight c. 45 kDa), requires tyrosine phosphorylation for activity and is tyrosine phosphorylated upon activation. Reverse transcription-PCR was used to generate a previously-cloned MAPK from guard cells, epidermis and mesophyll and immunoblotting using an antibody raised against a mammalian MAPK detected MAPK-related proteins, including one of 45 kDa, in epidermal peels, mesophyll and guard cells. Inhibition of AMBP kinase activation by PD98059, a specific inhibitor of MAPK kinase, and thus MAPK activation, correlated with PD98059-inhibition of ABA-induced stomatal closure and dehydrin gene expression, suggesting that ABA effects in pea epidermal peels require MAPK activation. AMBP kinase was not activated by ABA in guard cells isolated by enzyme treatment. However, a protein kinase of c. 43 kDa was activated by ABA in isolated guard cells, but not in mesophyll or epidermal tissue.
We recently isolated PsAD1 cDNA from pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Alaska) seedlings, whose mRNA abundantly accumulated in dormant axillary buds and disappeared after decapitation [Madoka and Mori (2000) Plant Cell Physiol. 41: 274]. To further elucidate the function of PsAD1, we investigated the temporal and spatial distribution patterns of PsAD1 protein using Western blot and immunocytochemical analyses. Western blot analyses showed that accumulation patterns of PsAD1 protein in axillary buds after decapitation and in response to IAA and 6-benzyladenine were the same as those of PsAD1 mRNA. Immunocytochemical analyses showed that (1) PsAD1 proteins were localized in the procambia, leaf primordia, apical meristem, and secondary axillary buds in the dormant axillary bud, and this distribution was the same as that of PsAD1 mRNA, (2) PsAD1 proteins acropetally disappeared after decapitation, and (3) the growth of axillary buds occurred in the same manner. These acropetal changes occur in a manner similar to the way in which the procambium differentiates into vascular tissue. These results suggest that PsAD1 plays some role in the inhibition of growth and differentiation, or in the maintenance of the dormant state in axillary buds.
The eukaryotic ribosomal protein (RP) L9 is highly conserved in nature, and its gene is expressed to high levels in the actively growing tissues of pea. The transcriptional activity of the gene is highest in root, cambial and shoot meristems and immature tissues of the plant. Promoter deletion analysis using constructs employing the reporter gene gus were stably transferred into tobacco and revealed that the fully functional promoter is found in the first 316bp upstream from the start codon. Transgenic pea plants carrying one of these constructs show that translational efficiency mirrors gene transcription; gene expression appears to be developmentally regulated at the level of transcription. The coding region of the gene shares 80% amino acid homology with Arabidopsis and 76% homology with rice. Comparisons of the gene structure to that of the human, fruit fly, yeast, and Arabidopsis homologues reveal a close relationship in both promoter structure and intron insertion sites with the Arabidopsis gene. A nucleotide sequence alignment of the pea gene with other plant RP genes revealed that a sequence, -TTAGGGTTTT-, was commonly found in the forward and/or the inverted orientation at or near the TATA boxes of the promoters of these genes and may have a role in regulating the coordinate production of the RP genes in plants.
Sequence comparisons were used to identify cDNAs potentially encoding the alpha- and beta-subunits of chloroplast pyruvate dehydrogenase. Coupled in-vitro transcription plus translation was used to synthesize radiolabeled pyruvate dehydrogenase alpha- and beta-subunit precursor proteins. When the precursors were incubated with intact pea (Pisum sativum L.) seedling chloroplasts in the presence of ATP, they were imported and proteolytically processed. In contrast, there was no import or processing of the precursors by isolated, intact pea seedling mitochondria. Monospecific antibodies to the recombinant pyruvate dehydrogenase alpha-subunit were additionally able to co-precipitate radiolabeled pyruvate dehydrogenase beta-subunit, indicating association between subunits after import and processing. Furthermore, size-exclusion chromatography was used to identify an alphabeta heterodimer that is an intermediate in the assembly of the native alpha2beta2 heterotetrameric enzyme.
Porphobilinogen synthase (PBGS) is present in all organisms that synthesize tetrapyrroles such as heme, chlorophyll, and vitamin B(12). The homooctameric metalloenzyme catalyzes the condensation of two 5-aminolevulinic acid molecules to form the tetrapyrrole precursor porphobilinogen. An artificial gene encoding PBGS of pea (Pisum sativum L.) was designed to overcome previous problems during bacterial expression caused by suboptimal codon usage and was constructed by recursive polymerase chain reaction from synthetic oligonucleotides. The recombinant 330 residue enzyme without a putative chloroplast transit peptide was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified in 100-mg quantities. The specific activity is protein concentration dependent, which indicates that a maximally active octamer can dissociate into less active smaller units. The enzyme is most active at slightly alkaline pH; it shows two pK(a) values of 7.4 and 9.7. Atomic absorption spectroscopy shows maximal binding of three Mg(II) per subunit; kinetic data support two functionally distinct types of Mg(II) and the third appears to be nonphysiologic and inhibitory. Analysis of the protein concentration dependence of the specific activity suggests that the minimal functional unit is a tetramer. A model of octameric pea PBGS was built to predict the location of intermolecular disulfide linkages that were revealed by nonreducing sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. As verified by site-specific mutagenesis, disulfide linkages can form between four cysteines per octamer, each located five amino acids from the C-terminus. These data are consistent with the protein undergoing conformational changes and the idea that whole-body motion can occur between subunits.
Using an RT-PCR approach a rac-related cDNA clone, designated Ms-rac1, was isolated from Medicago sativa (alfalfa). Ms-rac1 encodes a putative protein of 197 amino acids, which is closely related to known Rac-related GTP-binding proteins from Pisum sativum and Arabidopsis thaliana. RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that Ms-rac1 is ubiquitously expressed in various tissues in alfalfa. Expression of Ms-rac1 in suspension cultures occurred independently of treatment with elicitor, indicating that it is constitutively expressed. Heterologous expression of an antisense Ms-rac1 cDNA construct in transgenic tobacco plants was associated with poor growth and retarded flowering. Following infiltration with yeast elicitor, transgenic tobacco plants transformed with either the empty vector or Ms-rac1 in sense orientation developed brown necrotic lesions and subsequently cell death was observed within the infiltrated tissues. In contrast, the majority of the antisense transformants neither formed necrotic lesions nor showed any other visible defence reactions, demonstrating that Rac-related GTPases play an important role in the establishment of plant defence reactions.
Cathepsin B is an ancient family of eukaryotic cysteine proteases. We describe PsCat1, a plant cathepsin B-like transcript, identified as an expressed sequence in Rhizobium-induced, nitrogen-fixing root nodules of pea. In situ hybridization studies in root nodules showed strong, extremely localized expression of PsCat1 in individual cells associated with the central infected tissue. Restriction fragment polymorphism mapping of the PsCat1 locus in pea shows no correlation with existing mutant lines defective in symbiosis.
PsCyp15a is a gene that encodes a vacuolar cysteine protease expressed in wilt-induced shoots of Pisum sativum (pea) and in root nodules. To further the understanding of nodular PsCyp15a expression, a region 5' to the coding sequence of the gene was cloned. Varying lengths of 5' untranslated sequence were fused with the uidA coding region and introduced from Agrobacterium rhizogenes into "hairy roots" of Vicia hirsuta. In this transgenic root nodulation assay, a promoter sequence of 900 bp was sufficient to give an expression pattern indistinguishable from that obtained in pea nodules by in situ hybridization. An orthologue of PsCyp15a was cloned from nodule mRNA of Medicago sativa and a corresponding gene identified in M. truncatula was also shown to express strongly in nodules. With molecular mapping techniques, it was demonstrated that these genes map to a syntenic genome location in pea and Medicago spp., but the map positions of the Cyp15a genes cannot be correlated with existing nodulation mutants.
The nucleus in plants and animals is a highly structured organelle containing several well-defined subregions or suborganelles. These include the nucleolus, interphase chromosome territories and coiled bodies. We have visualized transcription sites in plants at both light- and electron-microscopy level by the incorporation of BrUTP. In the nucleolus many dispersed foci are revealed within the dense fibrillar component, each of which probably corresponds to a single gene copy. In the nucleoplasm there are also many dispersed foci of transcription, but not enough to correspond to one site per transcribed gene. We have shown that in wheat, and probably many other plant species, interphase chromosome territories are organized in a very regular way, with all the chromosomes in the Rabl configuration, all the centromeres clustered at the nuclear membrane and all the telomeres located at the nuclear membrane on the opposite side of the nucleus. However, despite this regular, polarized structure, there is no sign of polarization of transcription sites, or of any preferred location for them with respect to chromosome territorial boundaries. The nucleus is also highly dynamic. As an example, we have shown by the use of a green fluorescent protein fusion to the spliceosomal protein U2B" that coiled bodies move and coalesce within the nucleus, and may act as transport structures within the nucleus and nucleolus.
The cDNA coding for copper amine oxidase has been cloned from etiolated pea seedlings (Pisum sativum). The deduced amino acid sequence, consisting of 674 residues including the signal peptide, agreed well with those reported for the enzymes from a different cultivar of P. sativum and other plant sources, except for several evolutionary replacements located mostly on the molecular surface. A heterologous expression system for the cloned pea enzyme was constructed with the yeast Pichia pastoris, using the AOX1 promoter and the yeast alpha-factor secretion signal. Adding copper to the culture medium increased the secretion of an active, quinone-containing enzyme. Furthermore, the inactive enzyme produced in a copper-deficient medium was activated considerably by subsequent incubation with excess cupric ions. These results strongly suggest that the Tyr-derived redox cofactor, 2,4,5-trihydroxyphenylalanylquinone (topa quinone, TPQ), is produced in the plant enzyme by post-translational modification that proceeds through the copper-dependent, self-processing mechanism, as in the enzymes from bacteria and yeast.
In gram-negative bacteria, many important changes in gene expression and behavior are regulated in a population density-dependent fashion by N-acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) signal molecules. Exudates from pea (Pisum sativum) seedlings were found to contain several separable activities that mimicked AHL signals in well-characterized bacterial reporter strains, stimulating AHL-regulated behaviors in some strains while inhibiting such behaviors in others. The chemical nature of the active mimic compounds is currently unknown, but all extracted differently into organic solvents than common bacterial AHLs. Various species of higher plants in addition to pea were found to secrete AHL mimic activities. The AHL signal-mimic compounds could prove to be important in determining the outcome of interactions between higher plants and a diversity of pathogenic, symbiotic, and saprophytic bacteria.
To elucidate the molecular mechanism of apical dominance, the expression patterns of genes that are preferentially expressed in dormant axillary buds of pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Alaska) seedlings were investigated. We isolated two cDNA clones, cPsAD1 and cPsAD2 whose corresponding genes were named PsAD1 and PsAD2, from a cDNA library of dormant axillary buds using the differential display method. The deduced amino acid sequence of PsAD1 contains 87 residues and is rich in glycine residues in the amino terminal region. A search of the protein databases failed to find any sequences similar to PsAD1 protein except for the glycine-rich region. Northern blot analyses showed that PsAD1 mRNA mainly accumulated in dormant axillary buds and that its amount rapidly decreased after decapitation of the terminal bud. In situ hybridization analyses indicated that PsAD1 mRNA was localized in the apical meristem, procambia, and leaf primordia in dormant axillary buds that were competent to grow out but whose growth was temporarily suspended. That is, the expression of the PsAD1 gene is closely associated with the dormancy of axillary buds. The deduced amino acid sequence of PsAD2 contains 98 amino acid residues and is not similar to those of previously characterized proteins. PsAD2 mRNA accumulated in dormant axillary buds, roots, mature leaflets and elongated stems, suggesting that PsAD2 is involved in not only the dormancy of axillary buds but also the non-growing state in various tissues.
A gene (EGL2) encoding an endo-1,4-beta-glucanase in peas has been cloned as a homologue of EGL1. EGL2 encodes a polypeptide of 506 amino acids, including a 24-mer putative signal polypeptide. The gene product contains a domain conserved in endo-1,4-beta-glucanase (family 9) showing 60% amino acid identity to EGL1. EGL2 mRNA was accumulated only in the elongating regions of pea stems, although EGL1 mRNA was abundant in both elongating and non-elongating tissues. However, the level of EGL2 mRNA was not increased by the treatment with sucrose and auxin in pea segments. These results suggest that the expression of EGL2 either requires the presence of other factors related to the auxin effect or occurs independent of auxin in the elongating pea stems.
Mentally controlled qi energy can induce crop seeds to sprout and root for several cm within about 20 min. The RAPD method was used to compare treated groups of wheat and pea seeds and their controls using 11 selected primers. Seven primers amplified polymorphisms in wheat seeds and 5 in pea seeds. It was thought preliminarily that qi energy changed the structure of a germination-correlated gene site speeding up expression and advancing it in time.
The fnrN gene from Rhizobium leguminosarum UPM791 controls microaerobic expression of both nitrogen fixation and hydrogenase activities in symbiotic cells. Two copies of fnrN are present in this strain, one chromosomal (fnrN1) and the other located in the symbiotic plasmid (fnrN2). Their expression was studied by cloning the regulatory regions in lacZ promoter-probe vectors. The fnrN genes were found to be autoregulated: they are expressed only at basal levels under aerobic conditions; they are highly expressed under microaerobic conditions; and they are expressed at basal levels in the double mutant DG2 (fnrN1 fnrN2) under any condition. The promoters of both genes contain two FnrN-binding sequences (anaeroboxes), centred at positions -12.5 (proximal anaerobox) and -44.5 (distal anaerobox). Expression analysis and gel retardation experiments with fnrN1-derivative promoter mutants altered in key bases of the anaerobox sequences demonstrated that binding of FnrN1 to the distal anaerobox is necessary for microaerobic activation of transcription, and that binding of FnrN1 to the proximal anaerobox results in transcriptional repression. The apparent affinity of FnrN1 for the proximal anaerobox was fivefold lower than for the distal anaerobox, resulting in repression of transcription of fnrN1 only at high-FnrN1 concentrations. This positive and negative autoregulation mechanism ensures an equilibrated expression of fnrN in response to microaerobic conditions.
A large number of Rab/Ypt-family small GTPases have been identified from higher plants. While some of them can complement yeast ypt mutants, the expression of Arabidopsis Ara4 protein aggravated the growth defect of a subset of ypt mutants, probably because of the titration of common regulator(s) of yeast Ypt proteins [Ueda, T. et al. (1996) Plant Cell, 8: 2079-20911. PRA2 from pea Pisum sativum encodes an interesting Rab GTPase whose expression is regulated by light [Yoshida, K. et al. (1993) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 90: 6636-6640]. We examined whether PRA2 complements any of the yeast ypt mutants and found again that PRA2 does not complement but rather confers the growth defect to some of the ypt mutants. No growth defect was observed when PRA2 was expressed in the wild-type yeast cells. Unlike the case of Ara4, neither Arabidopsis nor yeast GDI remedied the growth defect by Pra2, indicating that the mechanism of the exacerbation is different. Mutational analysis of PRA2 suggests that the growth inhibition can be ascribed to unidentified factor(s) which prefers the GTP-bound form of Pra2. This yeast system will be useful for identifying such putative regulatory factor(s) from yeast and plants and analyzing their interactions with Pra2.
This paper reports the isolation and characterization of a cDNA encoding the FtsZ protein of pea. The protein is synthesised as a precursor molecule of 423 amino acids with a molecular mass of 44 kDa. When translated in vitro, the protein is translocated efficiently into isolated, intact pea chloroplasts, demonstrating that the protein is localised in the chloroplast. Pea FtsZ synthesised in vitro formed multimers in a calcium-dependent manner. The pea cDNA complemented the thermosensitive defect of an E. coli ftsZ mutant in vivo and converted the filamentous phenotype of the E. coli mutant into the normal wild-type morphology at 42 degrees C. However, pea FtsZ mutants that were defective in multimerisation in vitro failed to correct the phenotype of the E. coli ftsZ mutant in vivo. The pea ftsZ transcripts were abundantly present in the young leaves, but barely detectable in roots and stems and undetectable in older leaves. Light stimulated transcription of the gene significantly in young and dark-grown leaves. This study strongly suggests that the division mechanisms used by chloroplasts and bacteria show considerable similarity.
We found a cis-regulatory element of 12 base pairs (bp) (GGATTTTACAGT) capable of conferring light responsiveness to a minimal promoter, CaMV 35S46, in pea. The 12-bp sequence is located in the 5' upstream region of the light down-regulated gene pra2, which encodes a small GTPase belonging to the YPT/rab family. Here we examined gain-of-function analyses using synthetic promoter-luciferase constructs in a transient assay and found that the 12-bp element alone was sufficient to confer dark induction, as well as light down-regulation on the minimal promoter. We named this dark inducible element DE1. Effects of various light conditions on the reporter gene activity showed that DE1 received signals from phytochrome A, phytochrome B, and blue light photoreceptors. Using phytochrome-deficient mutants, we showed that the pra2 protein level in seedlings was also regulated by these photoreceptors. The changes in the immunoblotting pattern of the pra2 protein in these mutants were correlated with the changes in epicotyl elongation. Results from transient assays using these mutants showed that the DE1 received signals from phytochromes A and B, demonstrating that this element is indeed a light-responsive element. To our knowledge, this is the first cis-element that by itself confers light responsiveness to a minimal promoter.
Unlike the GroEL homologs of eubacteria and mitochondria, oligomer preparations of the higher plant chloroplast chaperonin 60 (cpn60) consist of roughly equal amounts of two divergent subunits, alpha and beta. The functional significance of these isoforms, their structural organization into tetradecamers, and their interactions with the unique binary chloroplast chaperonin 10 (cpn10) have not been elucidated. Toward this goal, we have cloned the alpha and beta subunits of the ch-cpn60 of pea (Pisum sativum), expressed them individually in Escherichia coli, and subjected the purified monomers to in vitro reconstitution experiments. In the absence of other factors, neither subunit (alone or in combination) spontaneously assembles into a higher order structure. However, in the presence of MgATP, the beta subunits form tetradecamers in a cooperative reaction that is potentiated by cpn10. In contrast, alpha subunits only assemble in the presence of beta subunits. Although beta and alpha/beta 14-mers are indistinguishable by electron microscopy and can both assist protein folding, their specificities for cpn10 are entirely different. Similar to the authentic chloroplast protein, the reconstituted alpha/beta 14-mers are functionally compatible with bacterial, mitochondrial, and chloroplast cpn10. In contrast, the folding reaction mediated by the reconstituted beta 14-mers is only efficient with mitochondrial cpn10. The ability to reconstitute two types of functional oligomer in vitro provides a unique tool, which will allow us to investigate the mechanism of this unusual chaperonin system.
The purification to homogeneity of p16, a protein with an electrophoretic mobility compatible with an apparent molecular mass of 16 kDa, from nuclei of ungerminated pea embryonic axes is described. A cDNA clone of its gene, which was designated psp54, was also isolated. The psp54 cDNA contains an open reading frame coding for a 54.4-kDa polypeptide (p54). p16 corresponds to the C-terminal third of p54, although the mechanisms by which the primary polypeptide could be processed are not yet known. The sequence of p54 is 60% identical with that of the precursor of a sucrose-binding soybean protein, and, to a lesser extent (31-34%), it shares homology with some storage proteins. p16 is also 30% homologous with Nhp2p, a yeast nuclear protein. The psp54 gene, present in a single copy in pea genome, starts being expressed during seed desiccation. Soon after rehydration in seed germination, p54 mRNA disappears and is no longer detectable in vegetative tissues, except in response to hydric stress (exposure to abscisic acid, osmolites or desiccation). p16 can be recovered from nuclei cross-linked to histone H3, when the disulfide bridges that occur in vivo are preserved. On the other hand, p16 shares some properties with dehydrins, which are thought to protect cellular structures against desiccation. We propose that the possible precursor polypeptide p54 belongs to the vicilin superfamily, members of which play a variety of roles. The function of p16 may be related to the protection of chromatin structure against desiccation during seed development.
Two cDNA clones were isolated from pea (Pisum sativum L.) and their deduced amino acid sequences shown to have significant homology to phosphoglucomutases from eukaryotic and prokaryotic sources. The longer cDNA contained a putative transit-peptide-encoding sequence, supporting the hypothesis that the isolated clones represent the cytosolic and plastidial isoforms of phosphoglucomutase in pea. Plastid protein import assays confirmed that the putative plastidial isoform was targeted to the plastid stroma where it was proteolytically processed. Expression, co-segregation, linkage, and molecular analyses have confirmed that the rug3 locus of pea encodes plastidial phosphoglucomutase. Mutations at this locus result in a near-starchless phenotype of the plant.
Ferredoxin-1 (Fed-1) mRNA is poorly translated in dark-treated tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) leaves, resulting in destabilization of Fed-1 mRNA and a differential light/dark accumulation of the mRNA. Insertion of nonsense codons within the Fed-1 coding sequence disrupts the light regulation of Fed-1 mRNA abundance. Here we show that the nonsense codon effect results primarily from lowering the Fed-1 mRNA stability in light-treated leaf tissue and in rapidly growing tobacco cell cultures, but not in dark-treated leaf tissue. These results suggest that nonsense codons trigger a decay pathway distinct from that seen for Fed-1 mRNA in the dark. We propose that nonsense-mediated decay of nonsense-containing Fed-1 mRNA occurs in light-treated leaves and in non-photosynthetic tobacco culture cells where Fed-1 mRNA is being actively translated.
Acetyl-CoA carboxylase regulates the rate of fatty acid synthesis. This enzyme in plants is localized in plastids and is believed to be composed of biotin carboxyl carrier protein, biotin carboxylase, and carboxyltransferase made up of alpha and beta polypeptides, although the enzyme has not been purified yet. Accumulated evidence shows that pea plastidic acetyl-CoA carboxylase is activated by light and the activation is caused by light-dependent reduction of carboxyltransferase, but not of biotin carboxylase, via a redox cascade. To understand the reductive activation of carboxyltransferase at the molecular level here, we obtained the active enzyme composed of decahistidine-tagged (His tag) alpha and beta polypeptides through the expression of the pea plastidic carboxyltransferase gene in Escherichia coli. Gel filtration showed that the molecular size of the recombinant carboxyltransferase is in agreement with that of partially purified carboxyltransferase from pea chloroplasts. The catalytic activity of the recombinant enzyme was similar to that of native carboxyltransferase. These results indicate that the molecular structure and conformation of recombinant carboxyltransferase resemble those of its native counterpart and that native carboxyltransferase is indeed composed of alpha and beta polypeptides. This recombinant enzyme was activated by dithiothreitol, a known reductant of S-S bonds, with a profile similar to that of its native counterpart. The recombinant enzyme was activated by reduced thioredoxin-f, a signal transducer of redox potential in chloroplasts under irradiation. Thus, this enzyme was redox-regulated, like that of the native carboxyltransferase.
Research was done on dormant and non-dormant barley cv. Ars caryopses and triticale cv. Grado caryopses treated and non-treated with abscisic acid (ABA). During germination higher participation of populations of so-called tightly-bound polysomes (TBP) in embryos of dormant barley caryopses was observed, as well as their high metabolic activity. In embryos of triticale caryopses of which dormancy was imposed in an artificial way by ABA (100 microM), the strongest incorporation of 14C-amino acids into nascent polypeptide chains in vivo was found in population of TBP, as well as the highest participation among three of the studied fractions (free polysomes, membrane-bound polysomes and tightly-bound polysomes). These results may indicate the significant role of TBP (putative cytoskeleton-bound polysomes--CBP) in maintaining dormancy during imbibition of cereal caryopses.
Mg-chelatase catalyzes the insertion of Mg into protoporphyrin and lies at the branchpoint of heme and (bacterio)chlorophyll synthesis. In prokaryotes, three genes--BchI, D and H--encode subunits for Mg-chelatase. In higher plants, homologous cDNAs for the I, D and H subunits have been characterized. Since the N-terminal half of the D subunit is homologous to the I subunit, the C-terminal portion of the pea D was used for antigen production. The antibody recognized the chloroplast D subunit and was used to demonstrate that this subunit associated with the membranes in the presence of MgCl2. The antibody immunoprecipitated the native protein and inhibited Mg-chelatase activity. Expression in Escherichia coli with a construct for the full-length protein (minus the putative transit peptide) resulted in induction of 24.5 kDa (major) and 89 kDa (minor) proteins which could only be solubilized in 6 M urea. However, when host cells were co-transformed with expression vectors for the full-length D subunit and for the 70 kDa HSP chaperonin protein, a substantial portion of the 89 kDa protein was expressed in a soluble form which was active in a Mg-chelatase reconstitution assay.
A subunit of the preprotein translocon of the outer envelope of chloroplasts (Toc complex) of 64 kD is described, Toc64. Toc64 copurifies on sucrose density gradients with the isolated Toc complex. Furthermore, it can be cross-linked in intact chloroplasts to a high molecular weight complex containing both Toc and Tic subunits and a precursor protein. The 0 A cross-linker CuCl(2) yields the reversible formation of disulfide bridge(s) between Toc64 and the established Toc complex subunits in purified outer envelope membranes. Toc64 contains three tetratricopeptide repeat motifs that are exposed at the chloroplast cytosol interface. We propose that Toc64 functions early in preprotein translocation, maybe as a docking protein for cytosolic cofactors of the protein import into chloroplasts.
The soluble and peripheral proteins in the thylakoids of pea were systematically analyzed by using two-dimensional electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, and N-terminal Edman sequencing, followed by database searching. After correcting to eliminate possible isoforms and post-translational modifications, we estimated that there are at least 200 to 230 different lumenal and peripheral proteins. Sixty-one proteins were identified; for 33 of these proteins, a clear function or functional domain could be identified, whereas for 10 proteins, no function could be assigned. For 18 proteins, no expressed sequence tag or full-length gene could be identified in the databases, despite experimental determination of a significant amount of amino acid sequence. Nine previously unidentified proteins with lumenal transit peptides are presented along with their full-length genes; seven of these proteins possess the twin arginine motif that is characteristic for substrates of the TAT pathway. Logoplots were used to provide a detailed analysis of the lumenal targeting signals, and all nuclear-encoded proteins identified on the two-dimensional gels were used to test predictions for chloroplast localization and transit peptides made by the software programs ChloroP, PSORT, and SignalP. A combination of these three programs was found to provide a useful tool for evaluating chloroplast localization and transit peptides and also could reveal possible alternative processing sites and dual targeting. The potential of proteomics for plant biology and homology-based searching with mass spectrometry data is discussed.
A cDNA clone (GgCAS1) encoding cycloartenol synthase (CAS) has been isolated from Glycyrrhiza glabra (licorice) by cross-hybridization with that of Pisum sativum CAS as a probe. The deduced amino acid sequence of GgCAS1 exhibits 89%, 83% and 81% identity to those of Pisum sativum, Panax ginseng and Arabidopsis thaliana CASs, respectively. CAS activity has been detected in the homogenate of the yeast transformed with the expression vector containing the open reading frame of GgCAS1. Southern blot analysis suggested that at least two CAS genes exist in the licorice genome. In Northern blot analysis, the strong signal for CAS mRNA is detected in the cultured licorice cells of all growth phases, but no significant increase of CAS mRNA expression was observed in the cells treated with the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase inhibitor, pravastatin.
A gamma-ECS cDNA from Medicago truncatula was isolated using an Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA as probe. The analysis of the amino acid sequence deduced from this cDNA revealed 80% identity with the gamma-ECS from A. thaliana and Brassica juncea and suggested a plastidial localisation for the enzyme. Gamma-ECS activity and high level of GSH were detected in the gamma-ECS-deficient E. coli strain expressing a fusion protein containing the M. truncatula gamma-ECS protein. Southern blot analysis suggests that gamma-ECS is encoded by a small multigenic family in M. truncatula and shows that homologous genes are present in two other leguminous plants, Medicago sativa and Pisum sativum. Gamma-ECS gene expression was analysed by Northern blot in seedlings, plantlets and mature plants.
The voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) of mitochondria forms a large pore in the outer envelope membrane. Here, the full Oryza sativa OSVDAC1 cDNA was sequenced and is shown to belong to a small multigene family in the rice genome. This cDNA is 1093 bp long and codes for a protein of 274 amino acids. Expression studies of the osvdac1 gene show a regulation of its level in function of the plantlets maturation and organs. In contrast with several bacterial porins, osmotic stress does not have any effect on the plant osvdac1 gene expression.
The response of pea embryonic tissues to the replication of a range of different viruses was investigated using in situ hybridization to analyze changes in the expression of two host genes, heat shock protein 70 (hsp70) and lipoxygenase (lox1). Excised pea embryos were infected using microprojectile bombardment with a nonseed transmissible strain of Pea seed-borne mosaic potyvirus, or with Pea early browning tobravirus (PEBV), White Clover mosaic potexvirus, or Beet curly top geminivirus. Collectively, these examples represent families of viruses with differing genomic features, differing numbers of genomic components and differing replication strategies. In all cases, there was an induction of hsp70 associated with virus replication and, in most cases, a downregulation of lox1. Hence, either each virus has a direct inducer of these common responses or the induction is indirectly the result of a generic feature of virus infection. By exploiting the bipartite nature of the PEBV genome, the coat protein gene and genes involved in vector transmission were excluded as potential inducers.
In order to analyse gene expression associated with the late stages of arbuscular mycorrhizal development between Pisum sativum and Glomus mosseae, comparative differential RNA display was carried out using wild-type P. sativum and a mutant, RisNod24, where the fungal partner is not able to form functional arbuscules. Comparison of RNA accumulation patterns between controls, G. mosseae-colonized mutant and wild-type roots resulted in the identification of four differentially occurring cDNA fragments. One of the corresponding genes was from the fungus and three of plant origin. One plant gene, Psam4 (P. sativum arbuscular mycorrhiza-regulated), was analysed in more detail. Sequencing of a cDNA clone showed that Psam4 encodes a proline-rich protein. Northern blot analysis and quantitative RT-PCR revealed a higher basal level of Psam4 RNA accumulation in the mutant compared to the wild type. In both pea genotypes, RNA accumulation was reduced after inoculation with mycorrhiza- or nodule-forming symbiotic microorganisms, but enhanced after infection with a root pathogenic fungus.
Microtubules are thought to be major determinants of plant morphogenesis, through effects on planes of cell division and on directions of differential cell expansion. In differentiation and redifferentiation processes, tubulin expression may prove a useful early indicator of cell activity. We examined the expression and localization of the pea alpha-tubulin gene TubA1 in situ and in transgenic alfalfa (Medicago sativa) to explore its use as a probe for plant development, and as a test case for correct developmental expression between two legume species commonly compared for studies of symbiosis with Rhizobium. The TubA1 mRNA was more abundant in root tips and immature leaves than in other tissues of pea. The promoter of TubA1 was fused to beta-glucuronidase (GUS) to analyze alpha-tubulin expression in transgenic alfalfa. Transient assays indicated that the TubA1 gene is transcribed at moderate levels compared to the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Histochemical staining for GUS activity confirmed a correlation between TubA1 expression and cell division in nodules, roots and leaves. TubA1 promoter activity was first detected in the inner cortex of the root between 18 h and 24 h after spot inoculation with Rhizobium meliloti. Expression of a c-myc epitope fused to the carboxy-terminus of TubA1 resulted in an incorporation into the microtubular cytoskeleton, demonstrating the effectiveness of at least one epitope tag in creating functional tubulin fusions.
Here we report the cloning of a cDNA encoding the first nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDPK) isolated from plant mitochondria. Amplification of a 317 nt product was performed by PCR, using oligonucleotide primers based on partial amino acid sequences of the pea mitochondria NDPK and other NDPK isoforms. By screening of a pea cDNA library with this PCR product, a full length clone was obtained. Northern analysis revealed the presence of a 1.1 kb single transcript, with high expression in young leaves and reproductive tissues. The clone encodes a precursor protein of 232 amino acids (26 kDa), including an N-terminal extension of 80 amino acids (9 kDa). Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence confirmed its identity with the sequences obtained from the purified mature pea mitochondrial NDPK. In vitro import experiments carried out in isolated pea mitochondria showed targeting and processing of the 27 kDa precursor into a 16.5 kDa mature form. Phylogenetic analysis of some vertebrate and plant isoforms of NDPK showed that the pea mtNDPK groups together with the NDPK3 isoform from A. thaliana and the chloroplastic NDPK III from spinach. We suggest that it is possible to design a novel classification of the different NDPK isoforms according to their subcellular localisation and origin.
A full-length cDNA of 1951 bp encoding a calnexin (CNX) protein was cloned from a Pisum sativum expression library. The open reading frame (ORF) within this cDNA encodes a 551-amino acid protein with a calculated molecular mass of 62.47 kDa that exhibits extensive homology with the CNX proteins from soybean (80%), Arabidopsis thaliana (70%), maize (70%), and dog (39%). The characteristic CNX signature motifs, KPEDWDE and GXW, generally found in molecular chaperones, are present in pea CNX (PsCNX), along with putative sites for Ca2+ binding and phosphorylation. In PsCNX, a signal sequence and a single transmembrane domain are also present at the N- and C-terminal ends, respectively. The PsCNX protein is expressed constitutively at the RNA level in vegetative and flowering tissues, as was evident from Northern analysis. Expression of PsCNX was light independent. In vitro translation of PsCNX cDNA yielded a 75-kDa precursor, which, in the presence of canine microsomal membranes, was cotranslationally processed into a 72.5-kDa product and was imported and localized to the endoplasmic reticulum. Trypsin treatment of the in vitro translated PsCNX in the presence of canine microsomes generated a further processed 67-kDa intraluminal form. The results with PsCNX also showed that the plant protein is a phosphoprotein containing phosphoserine residues, as evidenced by immunoprecipitation of PsCNX with anti-phosphoserine antibody. The PsCNX protein was also phosphorylated by endogenous kinases of pea microsomes.
PsUGT1, which encodes a microsomal UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, was cloned from root tips of Pisum sativum. PsUGT1 expression is correlated with mitosis and strongly induced in dividing cells. A region at the C terminus of the encoded protein is closely related to the UDP-glucuronic acid binding site consensus sequence, and the protein encoded by PsUGT1 catalyzes conjugation of UDP-glucuronic acid to an unknown compound. Overexpression of PsUGT1 sense mRNA has no detectable effect on transgenic pea hairy root cultures or regenerated alfalfa. However, inhibiting PsUGT1 expression by the constitutive expression of antisense mRNA (under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter) markedly retards growth and development of transgenic alfalfa. Cell structure and organization in the antisense plants are similar to those of controls, but plant growth is reduced and development is delayed. This inhibition in growth is correlated with a twofold delay in the time required for completion of a cell cycle and with a >99% inhibition of border cell production. Inhibition of PsUGT1 expression by meristem-localized inducible expression of PsUGT1 antisense mRNA (under the control of its own promoter) is lethal both in pea hairy roots and in transgenic alfalfa plants. These results indicate that PsUGT1 expression is required for normal plant growth and development, and they are consistent with the hypothesis that this UDP-glycosyltransferase regulates activity of a ligand(s) needed for cell division.
The 5'-upstream regions of the plant active defense genes in pea (PSPAL2 and PSCHS1) exhibit significant nucleotide sequence identity to part of a copia-type retrotransposon. To characterize the retrotransposon in pea putative reverse transcriptase sequences (Psr) were amplified by PCR from cDNA prepared from protoplasts derived from pea suspension cultured cells. Psr genes can be classified into at least eight subgroups (A-H) according to their nucleotide sequence similarities. A subgroup PsrC was induced by the treatment of etiolated pea epicotyls with fungal elicitor within 30 min but was hardly induced by protoplasting of pea suspension cultured cells, whereas subgroups of PsrA and PsrB were highly induced by protoplasting. Interestingly, the retrotransposon sequence present at the 5'-upstream region of PSCHS1 which was induced by the treatment with fungal elicitor belonged to subgroup PsrC. The retrotransposon might play an important role in reorganization of the genes and optimization of the gene expression in response to various environmental stimuli such as an attack by phytopathogens or protoplasting.
Since some heat-inducible genes [heat shock (hs) genes] can be induced by virus infection in pea [e.g. Hsp70; Aranda et al. 1996, Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 93, 15289-15293], we have investigated the effect that heat and virus replication may have on the expression of a heat-shock transcription factor gene (Hsf). We have characterized what appears to be the only member of the Hsf family in pea, PsHsfA. Similar to Hsp70, PsHsfA is heat-inducible in vegetative and embryonic tissues, which is concordant with the presence of heat shock elements (HSEs) and stress responsive elements (STREs) on its promoter sequence. The expression of PsHsfA during virus replication was studied in pea cotyledons and leaves, and compared to that of Hsp70. In situ hybridization experiments showed that whereas Hsp70 is induced, there is no detectable increased accumulation of PsHsfA RNA associated with the replication of pea seed-borne mosaic potyvirus (PSbMV). These experiments indicate that there is a selective control of virus-induced hs gene expression, and suggest that different regulatory pathways control hs gene expression during heat shock and virus replication.
We have isolated and sequenced four overlapping cDNA clones to identify the full-length cDNA for topoisomerase II (PsTopII) from pea. Using degenerate primers, based on the conserved amino acid sequences of other eukaryotic type II topoisomerases, a 680 bp fragment was PCR-amplified with pea cDNA as template. This fragment was used as a probe to screen an oligo-dT-primed pea cDNA library. A partial cDNA clone was isolated that was truncated at the 3' end. RACE-PCR was employed to isolate the remaining portion of the gene. The total size of PsTopII is 4639 bp with an open reading frame of 4392 bp. The deduced amino acid sequence shows a strong homology to other eukaryotic topoisomerase II (topo II) at the N-terminus end. The topo II transcript was abundant in proliferative tissues. We also show that the level of topo II transcripts could be stimulated by exogenous application of growth factors that induced proliferation in vitro cultures. Light irradiation to etiolated tissue strongly stimulated the expression of topo II. These results suggest that topo II gene expression is up-regulated in response to light and hormones and correlates with cell proliferation. Besides, we have also isolated and analysed the 5'-flanking region of the pea TopII gene. This is first report on the isolation of a putative promoter for topoisomerase II from plants.
Gibberellin (GA) 20-oxidase (GA 20-ox) and GA 3beta-hydroxylase (GA 3beta-hy) are enzymes that catalyze the late steps in the formation of active GAs, and are potential control points in the regulation of GA biosynthesis by light. We have investigated the photoregulation of the GA 20-ox and GA 3beta-hy transcript levels in pea (Pisum sativum L.). The GA 20-ox transcript level was higher in light-grown seedlings than in etiolated seedlings, whereas GA 3beta-hy mRNA accumulation was higher in etiolated seedlings. However, transfer of etiolated seedlings to light led to a 5-fold increase in the expression of both transcripts 4 h after transfer. GA 20-ox mRNA accumulation is regulated by both phytochromes A and B. Transfer to light also resulted in a 6-fold decrease in GA(1) levels within 2 h. These results suggest that the light-induced drop in GA(1) level is not achieved through regulation of GA 20-ox and GA 3beta-hy mRNA accumulation. The application of exogenous GA(1) to apical buds of etiolated seedlings prior to light treatments inhibited the light-induced accumulation of both GA 20-ox and GA 3beta-hy mRNA, suggesting that negative feedback regulation is an important mechanism in the regulation of GA 20-ox and GA 3beta-hy mRNA accumulation during de-etiolation of pea seedlings.
The amount of active gibberellin (GA) in plant tissues is determined in part by its rate of catabolism through oxidation at C-2. In pea (Pisum sativum L.) seeds, GA 2-oxidation is controlled by the SLN (SLENDER) gene, a mutation of which produces seedlings characterized by a slender or hyper-elongated phenotype. We cloned a GA 2-oxidase cDNA from immature pea seeds by screening an expression library for enzyme activity. The clone contained a full-length open reading frame encoding a protein of 327 amino acids. Lysate of bacterial cultures expressing the protein converted the C(19)-GAs, GA(1), GA(4), GA(9), and GA(20) to the corresponding 2beta-hydroxy products. GA(9) and GA(20) were also converted to GA(51) and GA(29) catabolites, respectively. The gene appeared to be one member of a small family of GA 2-oxidases in pea. Transcript was found predominantly in roots, flowers, young fruits, and testae of seeds. The corresponding transcript from sln pea contained a point mutation and did not produce active enzyme when expressed heterologously. RFLP analysis of a seedling population segregating for SLN and sln alleles showed the homozygous mutant allele co-segregating with the characteristic slender phenotype. We conclude that SLN encodes GA 2-oxidase.
Sixteen ultraviolet-B radiation-regulated pea genes were identified. Functionally, the corresponding proteins were divided into four groups. (i) Chloroplast-localized proteins. Genes for these proteins were down-regulated, underlining the deleterious effects of UV-B on this organelle. A novel down-regulated photosystem I light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b-binding protein gene (PsLhcA4), was cloned and sequenced. (ii) Protein turnover enzymes. Levels of mature mRNAs for the PU1 and PsUBC4 genes, encoding proteins of the ubiquitin protein degradation pathway, were up- and down-regulated, respectively, implying alteration of plant cell protein content by changes in both gene expression and protein degradation. (iii) Proteins involved in intracellular signalling. Expression of genes for small GTPases, rab and rho homologues, were altered. (iv) Phenylpropanoid or flavonoid biosynthesis. Expression of three genes encoding enzymes in these pathways were up-regulated and one of them, the novel PsC450R1, was cloned and sequenced. Moreover, unexpected high molecular mass psbA RNA adducts were found to appear after UV-B exposure. In addition, a large increase in corresponding high molecular mass adducts were also found for PsLhcA4, and PsUBC4 mRNA and 23S rRNA. These RNA species do not contain protein and probably appear due to cross-linking of two or more RNA molecules, or are the result of UV-B-induced failure of transcription termination.
A pea (Pisum sativum) DNA fragment (termed MB3) was isolated by differential display of cDNAs obtained from total leaf RNA of ultraviolet B (UV-B) radiation-treated plants. Longer cDNAs were cloned by rapid amplification of cDNA ends in the 3' to 5' direction. Three different, but very similar, cDNAs were cloned, sadA, sadB, and sadC, the major difference between them being a 36-bp deletion in the coding region of sadB. Southern blotting confirmed the occurrence of at least three genes in the pea genome. Database comparisons of the SAD protein sequences revealed high identity (46%) and similarity (77%) with a putative tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) short-chain alcohol dehydrogenase. Very low levels of UV-B radiation (the biologically effective radiation normalized to 300 nm = 0.08 W m(-2)) was shown to up-regulate expression, a dose considerably lower than that needed to induce expression of the well-known UV-B defensive chalcone synthase and phenylalanine ammonia lyase genes. RNase protection assay revealed that primarily sadA and sadC mRNA accumulation was enhanced by UV-B. In addition to UV-B irradiation, ozone fumigation, wounding, aluminum stress, and salt stress induced increased transcript levels of the sad genes in pea.
Phytochromes regulate transcript levels of gibberellin biosynthesis enzymes, GA 20-oxidases and/or GA 3beta-hydroxylases, in germinating lettuce and Arabidopsis seeds and in de-etiolating pea seedlings. Feedback regulation of GA biosynthesis by active GA is well established, but other mechanisms for regulation of these biosynthetic genes also exist, as this feedback does not operate on a GA 3beta-hydroxylase gene of Arabidopsis during seed germination.
The pea mutant line P55 is defective in root nodule formation, and this phenotype is controlled by a single recessive gene. Complementation analysis revealed that the mutation in P55 is allelic to sym19, which has previously been mapped to linkage group I. Detailed mapping revealed that the sym19 and ENOD40 loci are separated by 2.7 cM. We identified four recombination events, demonstrating that the nodulation defect caused by mutation of the sym19 locus cannot be due to mutation of ENOD40. RT-PCR experiments showed that P55 expresses ENOD12A, but there was little or no increase in the level of its transcript in response to Nod factor or infection with Rhizobium. To investigate this expression pattern further, transgenic peas carrying a pENOD12A-GUS reporter construct were made. One transgenic line was crossed with line P55, to generate F2 progeny homozygous for sym19 and carrying pENOD12A-GUS. In both WT and sym19 mutant lines, ENOD12A-GUS expression was induced at sites of lateral root emergence in uninoculated plants. In Nod+ plants pENOD12A-GUS was induced in response to Rhizobium leguminosarumn bv. viciae, but no such induction was seen in the Nod- (sym19) mutants.
We report here on the cloning and characterization of two G protein alpha-subunits from pea: PGA1 and PGA2. Based on DNA gel blot analysis, PGA1 and PGA2 are the only Galpha homologous sequences in pea. RT-PCR analysis reveals that PGA1 and PGA2 transcripts are present in a variety of adult pea tissues. However, PGA2 mRNA is consistently detected at a lower level than PGA1 and demonstrates some degree of tissue specificity relative to PGA1. In the apical bud of pea seedlings, PGA1 and PGA2 transcripts decrease in response to 24 h of white light following growth for 6 days in darkness. The G protein mediated, yeast mating pathway was used to analyse the function of PGA1 and PGA2 in vivo. PGA1 downregulates the mating pathway, but through a mechanism that is independent of Gbetagamma sequestration. Unexpectedly, both PGA1 and PGA2 promote growth through a mating pathway independent mechanism.
Tic22 previously was identified as a component of the general import machinery that functions in the import of nuclear-encoded proteins into the chloroplast. Tic22 is peripherally associated with the outer face of the inner chloroplast envelope membrane, making it the first known resident of the intermembrane space of the envelope. We have investigated the import of Tic22 into isolated chloroplasts to define the requirements for targeting of proteins to the intermembrane space. Tic22 is nuclear-endoded and synthesized as a preprotein with a 50-amino acid N-terminal presequence. The analysis of deletion mutants and chimerical proteins indicates that the precursor of Tic22 (preTic22) presequence is necessary and sufficient for targeting to the intermembrane space. Import of preTic22 was stimulated by ATP and required the presence of protease-sensitive components on the chloroplast surface. PreTic22 import was not competed by an excess of an authentic stromal preprotein, indicating that targeting to the intermembrane space does not involve the general import pathway utilized by stromal preproteins. On the basis of these observations, we conclude that preTic22 is targeted to the intermembrane space of chloroplasts by a novel import pathway that is distinct from known pathways that target proteins to other chloroplast subcompartments.
Pea seedlings grown in continuous red light accumulate significant levels of Lhcb1 RNA. When treated with a single pulse of blue light with a total fluence >10(4) micromol m(-2), the rate of Lhcb1 transcription is increased, whereas the level of Lhcb1 RNA is unchanged from that in control seedlings. This RNA destabilization response occurs in developing leaves but not in the apical bud. The data presented here indicate that the same response occurs in the cotyledons of etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings. The blue light-induced destabilization response persists in long hypocotyl hy4 and phytochrome phyA, phyB, and hy1 mutants as well as in far-red light-grown seedlings, indicating that neither CRY1 (encoded by the hy4 locus) nor phytochrome is the sole photoreceptor. Studies with transgenic plants indicate that the destabilization element in the pea Lhcb1*4 transcript resides completely in the 5' untranslated region.
Fusion proteins of rat cytochrome P4501A1 with maize ferredoxin I (Fd) and pea ferredoxin NADP(+) reductase (FNR), the last electron transfer proteins of the photosynthetic channel in plant chloroplasts, were obtained by gene fusion in the yeast expression vector pAAH5N. The encoded fusion proteins P4501A1-Fd, P4501A1-FNR, P4501A1-Fd-FNR and P4501A1-FNR-Fd were produced in microsomes of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae AH22. Enzymatic assays were carried out in vitro with the isolated microsomes. P4501A1-Fd-FNR and P4501A1-FNR-Fd were found to catalyze P450-monooxygenase activities towards 7-ethoxycoumarin and the herbicide chlortoluron. P4501A1-Fd-FNR was the most efficient enzyme as measured in vitro in ferricyanide and cytochrome c reductions, as well as P450-monooxygenase assays. Apparent K(m) and k(cat) of P4501A1-Fd-FNR were 70 microM and 7800 min(-1) for NADPH, 13.2 microM and 51.1 min(-1) for 7-ethoxycoumarin, and 21.3 microM and 23. 8 min(-1) for the herbicide chlortoluron, respectively. Fd in P4501A1-Fd-FNR fusion enzyme was found to be a limiting factor compared to P4501A1 fused to the yeast NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase, an artificial enzyme described previously. The efficiency of electron transfer in the P4501A1 fusion proteins and a possible in vivo molecular coupling of Fd and FNR with microsomal cytochrome P4501A1 produced in plant chloroplasts are discussed.
Tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV) cDNA, positioned between a modified cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the hepatitis delta virus antigenomic ribozyme with a downstream nopaline synthase gene polyadenylation signal, established infections upon rub-inoculation of plants with intact plasmids. Application of this methodology produced a TBSV DNA-based gene vector which yielded readily detectable levels of localized foreign gene expression in inoculated leaves. This is the first demonstration of an infectious DNA from a member of the Tombusviridae which permits rapid TBSV-mediated foreign-gene expression upon direct rub-inoculation of miniprep DNA onto a variety of plant species.
A DNA-binding protein, VsENBP1, previously isolated from Vicia sativa was shown to bind in a sequence-specific manner to the early nodulin ENOD12 gene promoter from Pisum sativum. Here, the functional importance of the VsENBP1 binding sites on the PsENOD12B promoter has been studied in vivo. A promoter-gusA fusion in which a mutation was introduced at the putative target sequence, AATAA, was inactive in nodules of transgenic Vicia hirsuta roots. Gel retardation assays showed that VsENBP1 does not bind to the mutated promoter segment, suggesting that VsENBP1 activates the PsENOD12B expression in nodules through its interaction with its target sequence. In the presence of the 35S enhancer, an ENOD12 promoter-GUS construct gave expression in root vascular tissue in addition to the root nodules. Overexpression of Vsenbp1 in transgenic V. hirsuta roots reduced the leaky expression in root vascular tissue in contrast to nodules in which a small increase in GUS expression was observed. The results indicate that VsENBP1 acts as a repressor of ENOD12 expression in root tissue.
The analysis of pea rbcS-3A promoter sequence showed that BoxII was necessary for the control of rbcS-3A gene expression by light. GT-1, a DNA-binding protein that interacts with BoxII in vitro, is a good candidate for being a light-modulated molecular switch controlling gene expression. However, the relationship between GT-1 activity and light-responsive gene activation still remains hypothetical. Because no marked de novo synthesis was detected after light treatment, light may induce post-translational modifications of GT-1 such as phosphorylation or dephosphorylation. Here, we show that recombinant GT-1 (hGT-1) of Arabidopsis can be phosphorylated by various mammalian kinase activities in vitro. Whereas phosphorylation by casein kinase II had no apparent effect on hGT-1 DNA binding, phosphorylation by calcium/calmodulin kinase II (CaMKII) increased the binding activity 10-20-fold. Mass spectrometry analyses of the phosphorylated hGT-1 showed that amongst the 6 potential phosphorylatable residues (T86, T133, S175, T179, S198 and T278), only T133 and S198 are heavily modified. Analyses of mutants altered at T86, T133, S175, T179, S198 and T278 demonstrated that phosphorylation of T133 can account for most of the stimulation of DNA-binding activity by CaMKII, indicating that this residue plays an important role in hGT-1/BoxII interaction. We further showed that nuclear GT-1 DNA-binding activity to BoxII was reduced by treatment with calf intestine phosphatase in extracts prepared from light-grown plants but not from etiolated plants. Taken together, our results suggest that GT-1 may act as a molecular switch modulated by calcium-dependent phosphorylation and dephosphorylation in response to light signals.
The effect of expression of bean alpha-amylase inhibitor (alpha-AI) transgene on the nutritional value of peas has been evaluated by pair-feeding rats diets containing transgenic or parent peas at 300 and 650 g/kg, respectively, and at 150 g protein/kg diet, supplemented with essential amino acids to target requirements. The results were also compared with the effects of diets containing lactalbumin with or without 0.9 or 2.0 mg bean alpha-AI, levels equivalent to those in transgenic pea diets. When 300 and 650 g peas/kg diet were fed, the daily intake of alpha-AI was 11.5 or 26.3 mg alpha-AI, respectively. At the 300 g/kg level, the nutritional value of the transgenic and parent line peas was not significantly different. The weight gain and tissue weights of rats fed either of the two pea diets were not significantly different from each other or from those of rats given the lactalbumin diet even when this was supplemented with 0.9 g alpha-AI/kg. The digestibilities of protein and dry matter of the pea diets were slightly but significantly lower than those of the lactalbumin diet, probably due to the presence of naturally occurring antinutrients in peas. The nutritional value of diets containing peas at the higher (650 g) inclusion level was less than that of the lactalbumin diet. However, the differences between transgenic and parent pea lines were small, possibly because neither the purified recombinant alpha-AI nor that in transgenic peas inhibited starch digestion in the rat small intestine in vivo to the same extent as did bean alpha-AI. This was the case even though both forms of alpha-AI equally inhibited alpha-amylase in vitro. Thus, this short-term study indicated that transgenic peas expressing bean alpha-AI gene could be used in rat diets at 300 g/kg level without major harmful effects on their growth, metabolism and health, raising the possibility that transgenic peas may also be used at this level in the diet of farm animals.
Two cDNAs encoding gibberellin 2-oxidases were isolated from maturing pea seeds. The first, PsGA2ox1, was isolated by activity screening of a Lambda-ZAP cDNA library excised into phagemid form and expressed in Escherichia coli. The second, PsGA2ox2, was obtained initially as a PCR product using degenerate primers designed according to conserved regions of plant 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenases. E. coli heterologous expression products of PsGA2ox1 and PsGA2ox2 converted GA1 to GA8, as shown by HPLC-radiocounting, and gas chromatography-MS. PsGA2ox1 converted GA20 to GA29, but GA20 was a poor substrate for the PsGA2ox2 expression product. Furthermore, PsGA2ox1 converted GA29 to GA29-catabolite at a low level of efficiency while PsGA2ox2 did not catalyse this step. A cDNA of PsGA2ox1 isolated from plants of genotype sln contained a single base deletion which was predicted to produce a truncated protein and gibberellin 2-oxidase activity could not be demonstrated from this cDNA. A 10 bp size difference between the introns of the SLN and sln PsGA2ox1 genes was used to show co-segregation between the SLN and sln phenotypes and the size of the PCR products. PsGA2ox1 transcripts were more abundant in cotyledons than in shoots, while the reverse was the case for PsGA2ox2. The expression patterns of the genes, together with the effects of the sln mutation, indicate that PsGA2ox1 plays a major role in GA20 deactivation in both shoots and maturing seeds, while the PsGA2ox2 gene might be important for GA1 deactivation in the shoot.
Pea (Pisum sativum) and Arabidopsis contain similar, if not identical, blue-light (BL)-responsive systems that alter expression of specific members of the Lhcb (light-harvesting chlorophyll-binding) gene family. In both plants a single, short pulse of low-fluence BL (threshold = 10(-1) micromol m-2) causes an increase in the rate of transcription from specific members of the Lhcb gene family in etiolated seedlings. Constructs of the BL-regulated pea Lhcb1*4 promoter (PsLhcb1*4) were created, which altered sequences previously implicated in light responses, deleted the 5'-promoter sequence, or removed the 5'-untranslated region. These constructs were tested for BL induction in transgenic Arabidopsis. The PsLhcb1*4 promoter deletions to -150 bp maintained normal fluence response, time course, and reciprocity characteristics. The 5'- untranslated region contained enhancer elements, but was not necessary for BL induction. The -95 to +2 promoter was capable of responding to BL, whereas sequences from -50 were not. Promoters that lack conserved light-regulatory elements or sequences directly implicated in phytochrome and circadian responses retained BL activity, suggesting that the low-fluence BL response utilizes regions of the promoter independent of those that modulate the phytochrome and circadian responses.
In plants the degradation pathways of branched-chain amino acids have remained somewhat unclear with respect to both their biochemistry and their intracellular location. While biochemical evidence has localized some of the catabolic enzymes in peroxisomes/glyoxysomes, others cofractionate with mitochondria. We have now identified a candidate protein and corresponding cDNA for an enzyme of the leucine catabolic pathway, the isovaleryl-CoA-dehydrogenase (IVD). This polypeptide is a member of the acyl-CoA-dehydrogenase (ACDH) family and is encoded in the nuclear genome of Arabidopsis thaliana. Expression of the putative IVD gene in pea seedlings is documented by western blot analyses with an antibody against the mammalian IVD. Subcellular fractionation identifies the putative IVD enzyme in the mitochondrion. This localization suggests that in plants mitochondria contain at least part of the branched-chain amino acid degradation pathway(s).
Expression of an inducible gene with sequences common to genes encoding pectin methylesterase (PME) was found to be tightly correlated, both spatially and temporally, with border cell separation in pea root caps. Partial inhibition of the gene's expression by antisense mRNA in transgenic pea hairy roots prevented the normal separation of root border cells from the root tip into the external environment. This phenotype was correlated with an increase in extracellular pH, reduced root elongation, and altered cellular morphology. The translation product of the gene exhibited PME activity in vitro. These results are consistent with the long-standing hypothesis that the demethylation of pectin by PME plays a key role in cell wall metabolism.
One condition for using a gene as a transcriptional marker for environmental stress is its specific and differential expression. In order to be used as such a marker, the ribosomal protein S26 cDNA from pea (Pisum sativum L.) was cloned and fully sequenced. The gene (PsRPS26) was shown to be differentially regulated by ozone and UV-B radiation in opposite ways. Ozone gave rise to increased mRNA levels, whereas UV-B led to a decrease in S26 transcript abundance. Thus, the expression of PsRPS26 can be used as a molecular marker to differentiate between these two environmental stresses.
The pra2 gene encodes a pea (Pisum sativum) small GTPase belonging to the YPT/rab family, and its expression is down-regulated by light, mediated by phytochrome. We have isolated and characterized a genomic clone of this gene and constructed a fusion DNA of its 5'-upstream region in front of the gene for firefly luciferase. Using this construct in a transient assay, we determined a pra2 cis-regulatory region sufficient to direct the light down-regulation of the luciferase reporter gene. Both 5'- and internal deletion analyses revealed that the 93-bp sequence between -734 and -642 from the transcriptional start site was important for phytochrome down-regulation. Gain-of-function analysis showed that this 93-bp region could confer light down-regulation when fused to the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Furthermore, linker-scanning analysis showed that a 12-bp sequence within the 93-bp region mediated phytochrome down-regulation. Gel-retardation analysis showed the presence of a nuclear factor that was specifically bound to the 12-bp sequence in vitro. These results indicate that this element is a cis-regulatory element involved in phytochrome down-regulated expression.
An Arabidopsis cDNA encoding the dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase subunit of the plastid pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (E2) was isolated from a lambdaPRL2 library. The cDNA is 1709 bp in length, with a continuous open reading frame of 1440 bp encoding a protein of 480 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 50,079 D. Southern analysis suggests that a single gene encodes plastid E2. The amino acid sequence has characteristic features of an acetyltransferase, namely, distinct lipoyl, subunit-binding, and catalytic domains, although it is unusual in having only a single lipoyl domain. The in vitro synthesized plastid E2 precursor protein has a relative molecular weight of 67,000 on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Upon incubation of the precursor with pea (Pisum sativum) chloroplasts, it was imported and processed to a mature-sized relative molecular weight of 60,000. The imported protein was located in the chloroplast stroma, associated with the endogenous pyruvate dehydrogenase. Catalytically active recombinant plastid E2 was purified as a glutathione S-transferase fusion protein. Analysis of plastid E2 mRNA by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction showed highest expression in flowers, followed by leaves, siliques, and roots. The results of immunoblot analysis indicate that protein expression was similar in roots and flowers, less similar in leaves, and even less similar in siliques. This is the first report, to our knowledge, describing a plastid E2.
Chloroplasts have evolved an elaborate system of membrane and soluble subcompartments to organize and regulate photosynthesis and essential aspects of amino acid and lipid metabolism. The biogenesis and maintenance of organellar architecture rely on protein subunits encoded by both nuclear and plastid genomes. Import of nuclear-encoded proteins is mediated by interactions between the intrinsic N-terminal transit sequence of the nuclear-encoded preprotein and a common import machinery at the chloroplast envelope. Recent investigations have shown that there are two unique membrane-bound translocation systems, in the outer and inner envelope membranes, which physically associate during import to transport preproteins from the cytoplasm to the internal stromal compartment. This review discusses current understanding of these translocation systems and models for the way in which they might function.
The pattern of lipoxygenase (LOX) gene expression was investigated in pea nodule tissues using the technique of in situ hybridization. Five lipoxygenase cDNAs were cloned from nodule mRNA by the RT-PCR and 3' RACE procedures. These clones (loxN1 to loxN5) show a high degree of sequence homology, except in the 3'-untranslated region. Gene-specific riboprobes were therefore generated from subclones carrying the 3'-untranslated regions in order to investigate tissue-specific gene expression. Northern blotting analysis revealed that loxN1 corresponded to a transcript that was expressed exclusively in roots and nodules but not in the aerial parts of the plant. However, none of the LOX genes appeared to be up-regulated in nodule tissue relative to uninfected roots. Starting with the incomplete cDNA clone for loxN1, the full coding sequence termed lox1:P.s:1 was obtained by further rounds of RT-PCR and 5' RACE procedures. In situ hybridization with nodule tissues revealed several different patterns of expression for the various LOX probes. However, none of the corresponding transcripts was expressed exclusively in the invasion zone, as might have been expected if one LOX gene product had been uniquely associated with the invasion process. In conclusion, this study provides no evidence for a direct role for any LOX gene product in plant-microbe interaction or host defence, but the fact that all the transcripts were expressed at the nodule apex suggests that LOX could be involved in the development of this organ.
Two cDNAs from young pea fruits coding for functional spermidine synthases (EC 2.5.1.16) were isolated. The corresponding genes were named psSPDSYN1 and psSPDSYN2. Both cDNAs complemented spe3delta gene when introduced into the Y480 strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which is a null mutant for the spermidine synthase gene. psSPDSYN1 and psSPDSYN2 are regulated differentially. psSPDSYN1 is up-regulated early after fruit set whereas psSPDSYN2 is expressed later. Spermidine synthase activity was detected in pea ovaries, and correlates with the pattern of expression of psSPDSYN1. In the pea plant, psSPDSYN1 is highly expressed in actively growing tissues, whereas the highest level of psSPDSYN2 mRNA was detected in fully elongated stem.
A cDNA fragment containing the Pisum sativum GapN gene, which encodes the non-phosphorylating glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, was cloned in a prokaryote expression vector. This construct enabled Escherichia coli strain W3CG, a mutant which lacks the glycolytic phosphorylating G3P dehydrogenase, to grow aerobically on sugars. The functionally complemented mutant exhibited high levels of the catalytically active plant enzyme, which renders 3-phosphoglycerate and NADPH, thus bypassing the first substrate level phosphorylation step of the glycolysis. As expected if such a glycolytic bypass would be operative in vivo, this clone failed to grow anaerobically on sugars in contrast to W3CG clones complemented with phosphorylating glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenases. According to the irreversible catabolic character of the non-phosphorylating reaction, the GapN-complemented clone was unable to grow on gluconeogenic substrates. This metabolic engineering approach demonstrates that a pure catabolic Embden-Meyerhof pathway with no net energy yield is feasible.
The role of ethylene in the control of senescence of both petals and unpollinated carpels of pea was investigated. An increase in ethylene production accompanied senescence, and the inhibitors of ethylene action were effective in delaying senescence symptoms in different flower verticils. Pollination did not seem to trigger the senescence syndrome in the corolla as deduced from the observation that petals from pollinated and unpollinated flowers and from flowers whose carpels had been removed senesced at the same time. A cDNA clone encoding a putative ethylene-response sensor (psERS) was isolated from pea flowers, and the pattern of expression of its mRNA was studied during development and senescence of different flower tissues. The levels of psERS mRNA paralleled ethylene production (and also levels of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid oxidase (ACO) mRNA) in both petals and styles. Silver thiosulfate treatments were efficient at preventing ACO and psERS mRNA induction in petals. However, the same inhibitor showed no ability to modify expression patterns in pea carpels around the anthesis stage, suggesting different controls for ethylene synthesis and sensitivity in different flower organs.
In pea mitochondria the rpl5, rpsl4 and cob ORFs are clustered in a unique genomic environment and are cotranscribed into a 4.7-kb primary transcript and several other polycistronic RNAs with sizes between 4.0 and 2.3 kb. All of the larger RNAs terminate at a common 3' end, 52 nucleotides downstream of the cob gene. Transcription is initiated at a promoter about 1.3 kb upstream of the rpl5 start codon. The promoter sequence 5'-AATAAGAGA-3' corresponds to the highly conserved 5'-CRTAAGAGA-3' motif often found in promoters in dicot plants. Functional analysis in a homologous in vitro transcription system showed the pea rpl5 promoter to be active, despite the presence of an altered base in first position of the promoter motif. In Oenothera, in contrast to pea, transcription of the rpl5 gene is driven by a promoter motif that conforms perfectly to the consensus sequence. Double inverted repeats located in the 3' flanking regions of the rpsl4 and cob ORFs in pea were investigated with respect to their possible role in defining transcript termini and their potential function in controlling exo- and endonucleolytic processing or transcript stabilization.
We isolated an endoxyloglucan transferase cDNA (Ps-EXGT1) from the roots of an agravitropic pea mutant, ageotropum. The putative product of the cDNA was 34.1 kDa and consisted of 293 amino acid residues. The predicted amino acid sequence was 75.1-88.6% identical to those of EXGT genes in other plants. The Ps-EXGT1 cDNA was strongly expressed in elongating roots and stems but not in either mature stems or young leaves. In roots, the transcription level of Ps-EXGT1 was most abundant in the rapidly growing region. When root elongation was inhibited by a water stress, Ps-EXGT1 transcription was repressed. The roots curved hydrotropically due to differential growth of the cortical cells in the elongation zone when the root cap was exposed to a gradient of water potential; the length of the cells on the side of lower water potential was much longer than those on the side of higher water potential. The expression pattern of Ps-EXGT1 in the hydrotropically responding roots fluctuated between the side of the higher water potential and that of the lower water potential in the elongation zone. In other words, the accumulation of Ps-EXGT1 mRNA was much greater on the side of lower water potential than on that of higher potential just prior to the commencement of positive hydrotropism. When the roots started to curve slightly away from the side of higher water potential causing a rhythmic oscillatory movement [Takano et al. (1995) Planta 197: 410], there was more transcription of Ps-EXGT1 on the side of higher water potential. These results suggest that the transcription of Ps-EXGT1 is involved in cell growth and that this regulation of transcription plays a role in the differential growth of hydrotropically responding roots.
A cDNA clone encoding a thiol-protease (TPE4A) was isolated from senescent ovaries of pea (Pisum sativum) by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. The deduced amino acid sequence of TPE4A has the conserved catalytic amino acids of papain. It is very similar to VSCYSPROA, a thiol-protease induced during seed germination in common vetch. TPE4A mRNA levels increase during the senescence of unpollinated pea ovaries and are totally suppressed by treatment with gibberellic acid. In situ hybridization indicated that TPE4A mRNA distribution in senescent pea ovaries is different from that of previously reported thiol-proteases induced during senescence, suggesting the involvement of different proteases in the mobilization of proteins from senescent pea ovaries. TPE4A is also induced during the germination of pea seeds, indicating that a single protease gene can be induced during two different physiological processes, senescence and germination, both of which require protein mobilization.
Sequences encoding proteins with homology to protein tyrosine phosphatases have been identified in Arabidopsis, soybean and pea. Each contains a predicted catalytic domain containing sequence motifs characteristic of tyrosine-specific protein phosphatases (PTPs) which play an important role in signal transduction in other eukaryotes and are distinct from dual-specificity, cdc25 or low-molecular-weight protein tyrosine phosphatases. Their identity as PTPs was confirmed by characterising the soybean PTP expressed as a recombinant His-tagged fusion protein. The enzyme had phosphatase activity towards p-nitrophenolphosphate (pNPP) and phosphotyrosine, but did not hydrolyse phosphoserine or phosphothreonine at a measureable rate. Phosphotyrosine containing peptides also served as substrates, with Km values in the micromolar range. Activity was abolished by inhibitors specific for tyrosine phosphatases (vanadate, dephostatin) but was unaffected by inhibitors of serine/threonine protein phosphatases (fluoride, cantharidin, metal-chelating agents). Gel filtration chromatography showed that the recombinant enzyme was a monomer. The Arabidopsis PTP sequence was isolated both as a genomic clone and as a partial EST, whereas the pea and soybean sequences were isolated as cDNAs. Southern analysis suggested a single gene in Arabidopsis and a small gene family in pea and soybean. In pea, PTP transcripts were present in embryos, and decreased in level with development; transcripts were also detectable in other tissues. The plant PTPs all contain a similar N-terminal domain which shows no similarity to any known protein sequence. This domain may be involved in PTP functions unique to plants.
The PsPK3 and PsPK5 genes of the garden pea encode protein-serine/threonine kinases whose catalytic domains are closely related to known signal transducing kinases from animals and fungi. The PsPK3 polypeptide is predicted to be located in the nucleus, whereas PsPK5 is a homologue of NPH1, the probable blue light receptor for phototropism from Arabidopsis. We found previously that when etiolated pea seedlings are illuminated with continuous white light, PsPK3 and PsPK5 transcript levels within apical buds decline substantially, reaching their minimum levels within one day of exposure to light. The role of light in regulating the expression of the PsPK3 and PsPK5 genes was investigated further. To gain insight into the rapidity with which expression changes, 6-day old, dark-grown pea seedlings were transferred to continuous white light, and PsPK3 and PsPK5 RNA levels monitored over the ensuing 24 h. While transcripts from the RbcS gene family increase, the PsPK3 and PsPK5 mRNAs decline rapidly to their minimum levels. PsPK5 mRNA declines 10-fold in ca. 2 h, whereas PsPK3 mRNA declines 4-fold in ca. 8 h. We used single pulses of light to elucidate which photoreceptor triggers the negative regulation of PsPK3 and PsPK5 gene expression. To assess phytochrome involvement, etiolated seedlings were treated with single pulses of red light, red followed by far-red light, or far-red light alone. RbcS induction by a red light pulse is reversible with a subsequent far-red light pulse, clearly showing that phytochrome mediates its induction. Likewise, RbcS expression is induced with a single pulse of blue light or a dichromatic pulse of red+blue light. However, none of these pulses trigger the PsPK3 and PsPK5 mRNA levels to decline. Given the lack of effectiveness of light pulses, etiolated seedlings were transferred to continuous light of three different qualities to determine the spectral sensitivity of PsPK3 and PsPK5 gene expression. Exposure to continuous red, continuous far-red, or continuous blue light causes the PsPK3 and PsPK5 mRNAs to decline and transcripts from the RbcS and Cab gene families to increase. One likely explanation is that phytochrome A mediates the responses of these genes to continuous far-red light. The effectiveness of continuous red light and blue light in triggering the reduction in PsPK3 and PsPK5 mRNA levels and the increase in RbcS and Cab mRNAs may imply the participation of additional phytochromes and/or cryptochromes. Thus, the PsPK3 and PsPK5 genes exhibit responsiveness to continuous light, but a lack of responsiveness to single light pulses that is unusual, and perhaps unique, among light-regulated genes.
A multisubunit form of acetyl coenzyme A (CoA) carboxylase (ACCase) from soybean (Glycine max) was characterized. The enzyme catalyzes the formation of malonyl CoA from acetyl CoA, a rate-limiting step in fatty acid biosynthesis. The four known components that constitute plastid ACCase are biotin carboxylase (BC), biotin carboxyl carrier protein (BCCP), and the alpha- and beta-subunits of carboxyltransferase (alpha- and beta-CT). At least three different cDNAs were isolated from germinating soybean seeds that encode BC, two that encode BCCP, and four that encode alpha-CT. Whereas BC, BCCP, and alpha-CT are products of nuclear genes, the DNA that encodes soybean beta-CT is located in chloroplasts. Translation products from cDNAs for BC, BCCP, and alpha-CT were imported into isolated pea (Pisum sativum) chloroplasts and became integrated into ACCase. Edman microsequence analysis of the subunits after import permitted the identification of the amino-terminal sequence of the mature protein after removal of the transit sequences. Antibodies specific for each of the chloroplast ACCase subunits were generated against products from the cDNAs expressed in bacteria. The antibodies permitted components of ACCase to be followed during fractionation of the chloroplast stroma. Even in the presence of 0.5 M KCl, a complex that contained BC plus BCCP emerged from Sephacryl 400 with an apparent molecular mass greater than about 800 kD. A second complex, which contained alpha- and beta-CT, was also recovered from the column, and it had an apparent molecular mass of greater than about 600 kD. By mixing the two complexes together at appropriate ratios, ACCase enzymatic activity was restored. Even higher ACCase activities were recovered by mixing complexes from pea and soybean. The results demonstrate that the active form of ACCase can be reassembled and that it could form a high-molecular-mass complex.
Small acidic peptides have been isolated from biological fluids (blood and seminal plasma) and from chromatin of several tissues. Their biological activity is related to the control of cell growth and gene expression. This work is an approach to the study of peptide structure-function relationship. Purified fractions from seminal plasma and pea bud chromatin were subjected to fast ion bombardment mass spectrometry. The results obtained were analyzed according to biochemical characteristics of the peptides studied and some possible molecular models have been designed. Two of the proposed sequences were synthesized and their biological activity assayed in cells and cell-free systems. The results demonstrate that the synthetic peptides are able to bind to DNA in the presence of divalent cations (Mg2+, Fe2+, Cu2+) with consequent inhibition of DNA transcription.
Four cDNAs, one encoding an alpha-subunit and three encoding beta-subunits of the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase, were isolated from maize (Zea mays L.) libraries. The deduced amino acid sequences of both alpha- and beta-subunits are approximately 80% identical with Arabidopsis and pea (Pisum sativum L.) homologs. The mature N terminus was determined for the beta-subunit by microsequencing the protein purified from etiolated maize shoot mitochondria and was resolved by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. This single isoelectric species comprised multiple isoforms. Both alpha- and beta-subunits are encoded by multigene families in maize, as determined by Southern-blot analyses. RNA transcripts for both alpha- and beta-subunits were more abundant in roots than in young leaves or etiolated shoots. Pyruvate dehydrogenase activity was also higher in roots (5-fold) compared with etiolated shoots and leaves. Both subunits were present at similar levels in all tissues examined, indicating coordinated gene regulation. The protein levels were highest in heterotrophic organs and in pollen, which contained about 2-fold more protein than any other organ examined. The relative abundance of these proteins in nonphotosynthetic tissues may reflect a high cellular content of mitochondria, a high level of respiratory activity, or an extra plastidial requirement for acetate.
ATP, which is present in the extracellular matrix of multicellular organisms and in the extracellular fluid of unicellular organisms, has been shown to function as a signaling molecule in animals. The concentration of extracellular ATP (xATP) is known to be functionally modulated in part by ectoapyrases, membrane-associated proteins that cleave the gamma- and beta-phosphates on xATP. We present data showing a previously unreported (to our knowledge) linkage between apyrase and phosphate transport. An apyrase from pea (Pisum sativum) complements a yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) phosphate-transport mutant and significantly increases the amount of phosphate taken up by transgenic plants overexpressing the gene. The transgenic plants show enhanced growth and augmented phosphate transport when the additional phosphate is supplied as inorganic phosphate or as ATP. When scavenging phosphate from xATP, apyrase mobilizes the gamma-phosphate without promoting the transport of the purine or the ribose.
Transgenic pea lines carrying the replicase (NIb) gene of pea seed-borne mosaic potyvirus (PSbMV) were generated and used in experiments to determine the effectiveness of induced resistance upon heterologous isolates. Three pea lines showed inducible resistance in which an initial infection by the homologous isolate (PSbMV-DPD1) was followed by a highly resistant state. Resistance was observed in plants in either the homozygous or hemizygous condition and resulted in no overall yield loss despite the initial infection. Resistance was associated with a loss of both viral and transgene RNA, which is indicative of a mechanism based upon post-transcriptional gene silencing. There was no correlation between the steady-state levels of transgene RNA and ability of the plants to show resistance. To test the specificity of the resistance, plants were also inoculated with the most distantly related sequenced PSbMV isolate, NY. PSbMV-NY varied between experiments in its ability to induce resistance, suggesting that the sequence identity in the NIb gene is borderline for the specificity required for triggering gene silencing. Upon challenge inoculation of virus-free recovered leaves, the specificity of the induced resistance varied between the two isolates and indicated that the virus and transgene additively determined the resistant state. These results suggest that the sequence requirements for triggering gene silencing may differ from those involved in the degradation process.
As part of a programme to identify seed coat-specific transcripts in pea (Pisum sativum cv. Finale) using the differential display method, we identified and isolated a cDNA encoding a MADS box transcription factor. The predicted peptide contains 247 amino acids with the conserved N-terminal MADS box and is closely related to the AP1/AGL9 subfamily of the MADS box proteins. In addition to weak expression in petals, stamens and carpels, this MADS box mRNA is specifically expressed in the seed coat during seed development.
Treatment of 5- to 6-day-old etiolated pea (Pisum sativum L.) seedlings with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) induced within 15 min an increase in the transcript levels of two genes encoding 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) synthase, Ps-ACS1 and Ps-ACS2. Simultaneous treatment with ethylene inhibited this increase and also caused a decrease in ACC synthase enzyme activity as compared to that of seedlings treated with IAA alone. These results indicate that ethylene inhibits its own biosynthesis by decreasing ACC synthase transcript levels via a negative feedback loop. Wounding of pea stems had no effect on the expression of Ps-ACS1, but led within 10 min to an increase in the mRNA levels of Ps-ACS2. This increase was also inhibited by ethylene. The wound signal was transmitted over a distance of at least 4 cm through the stem with no delay in induction or response intensity. The rapid transmission of the wound response is consistent with the possibility that a hydraulic or electric signal is responsible for the spread of the wound response.
Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae strain UPM791 induces in symbiosis with peas the synthesis of a nickel-containing hydrogenase which recycles the hydrogen evolved by nitrogenase. The genes required for synthesis of this hydrogenase, hupSLCDEFGHIJKhypABFCDEX, are clustered in the symbiotic plasmid. Analysis of a hypA-deficient mutant showed that HypA is essential for symbiotic hydrogenase activity and required for correct processing of the hydrogenase large subunit. Unlike other microoxically induced hyp genes, the hypA gene was only expressed in pea bacteroids from its own promoter. The hypA mRNA 5' end was mapped 109 bp upstream of the translational start codon. This distinct pattern of expression suggests a different role for HypA and the remaining Hyp proteins in hydrogenase synthesis.
Pea (Pisum sativum L.) plants were transformed in planta by injection/electroporation of axillary meristems with a chimeric pea enation mosaic virus (PEMV) coat protein gene contruct. R1 progenies of these plants were shown to harbor the transgene by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and genomic Southern analysis, while transgene expression was demonstrated by western blot analysis. Transgenic R2, R3 and R4 plants displayed delayed or transient PEMV multiplication and attenuated symptoms as compared to control inoculated individuals.
Two functionally distinct sets of meristematic cells exist within root tips of pea (Pisum sativum): the root apical meristem, which gives rise to the body of the root; and the root cap meristem, which gives rise to cells that differentiate progressively through the cap and separate ultimately from its periphery as border cells. When a specific number of border cells has accumulated on the root cap periphery, mitosis within the root cap meristem, but not the apical meristem, is suppressed. When border cells are removed by immersion of the root tip in water, a transient induction of mitosis in the root cap meristem can be detected starting within 5 min. A corresponding switch in gene expression throughout the root cap occurs in parallel with the increase in mitosis, and new border cells begin to separate from the root cap periphery within 1 h. The induction of renewed border cell production is inhibited by incubating root tips in extracellular material released from border cells. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that operation of the root cap meristem and consequent turnover of the root cap is self-regulated by a signal from border cells.
The plastids found in diatoms and other chromophytic algae are completely enclosed by four membranes in contrast to chloroplasts of higher plants, which are surrounded by only two membranes. The bipartite targeting sequence of diatom nuclear-encoded plastid proteins contains an endoplasmic reticulum signal sequence and, based on sequence comparison, a transit peptide-like domain similar to that which targets proteins into the plastids of higher plants. By performing heterologous import experiments using the precursor of the gamma subunit of the chloroplast ATPase from the diatom Odontella sinensis we were able to show that protein import into diatom plastids is at least a two-step event. We demonstrate that the first step involves co-translational transport through endoplasmic reticulum membranes and that there is an additional targeting step which is similar to the import of precursor proteins into chloroplasts of higher plants and green algae indicating that the transit peptide-like domain of the diatom precursor is functionally equivalent to the respective targeting signal of higher plants. Our results suggest that the transit peptide depending targeting mechanism in plastids has apparently remained relatively unchanged over the course of evolution, with only the peptidase cleavage site significantly modified.
The relationship between co-suppression and DNA methylation was explored in transgenic plants showing inducible co-suppression following infection with a cytoplasmically replicating RNA virus. Induction resulted in a loss of transgene mRNA and resistance to further infection, factors typical of post-transcriptional gene silencing. In infected plants, de novo methylation of the transgene appeared to precede the onset of resistance and only occurred in plants where the outcome was co-suppression. The methylation was limited to sequences homologous to the viral RNA and occurred at both symmetric and non-symmetric sites on the DNA. Although methylation is predicted to occur in mitotic cells, the virus was found not to access the meristem. A diffusible sequence-specific signal may account for the epigenetic changes in those tissues.
Using cDNA representational difference analysis (cDNA RDA), we isolated a cDNA named GDA-1 from a cDNA library constructed with mRNA from short-day (SD) grown G2 pea apical tissue. The amino acid sequence deduced from GDA-1 shares partial identity with the B2 protein which is expressed during embryogenesis of carrot cells. Northern analysis showed that GDA-1 mRNA is abundant in SD-grown G2 pea apical buds. In long-day (LD) conditions, there was almost no detectable GDA-1 mRNA. When LD-grown G2 peas were kept in continuous darkness for 24 h, the GDA-1 mRNA content reached a level equivalent to about 50% of that in the SD samples. On the other hand, when SD-grown peas were transferred into the light for 24 h, the amount of hybridizable GDA-1 mRNA dropped to the same as that of LD-grown plants. GDA-1 expression was found to be independent of flower initiation time. GA3 application in vitro resulted in rapid accumulation of GDA-1 mRNA in LD-grown G2 pea apical buds, which is compatible with its delaying effect on apical senescence. Time-course experiments revealed that GDA-1 is induced within 15 min of GA3 application. Exogenous GA3 did not influence the expression of GDA-1 in SD-grown G2 peas. Since both photoperiod and GA induce the expression of GDA-1, we speculate that they may activate similar signal transduction pathways in G2 peas. Our work also shows that photoperiod may change the efficiency of gibberellin perception by plants.
Two novel non-allelic mutants that were unable to fix nitrogen (Fix ) were obtained after EMS (ethyl methyl sulfonate) mutagenesis of pea (Pisum sativum L.). Both mutants, SGEFix(-)-1) and SGEFix(-)-2, form two types of nodules: SGEFix(-)-1 forms numerous white and some pink nodules, while mutant SGEFix(-)-2 forms white nodules with a dark pit at the distal end and also some pinkish nodules. Both mutations are monogenic and recessive. In both lines the manifestation of the mutant phenotype is associated with the root genotype. White nodules of SGEFix(-)-1 are characterised by hypertrophied infection threads and infection droplets, mass endocytosis of bacteria, abnormal morphological differentiation of bacteroids, and premature degradation of nodule symbiotic structures. The structure of the pink nodules of SGEFix(-)-1 does not differ from that of the parental line, SGE. White nodules of SGEFix(-)-2 are characterised by "locked" infection threads surrounded with abnormally thick plant cell walls. In these nodules there is no endocytosis of bacteria into host-cell cytoplasm. The pinkish nodules of SGEFix(-)-2 are characterised by virtually undifferentiated bacteroids and premature degradation of nodule tissues. Thus, the novel pea symbiotic genes, synm40 and sym33, identified after complementation analysis in SGEFix(-)-1 and SGEFix(-)-2 lines, respectively, control early nodule developmental stages connected with infection thread formation and function.
Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) large subunit (LS) Nepsilon-methyltransferase (Rubisco LSMT, EC 2.1.1.127) catalyzes methylation of the LS of Rubisco. A pea (Pisum sativum L. cv Laxton's Progress No. 9) Rubisco LSMT cDNA was expressed in Escherichia coli, but most of the expressed protein was found in the insoluble fraction as an inclusion body. Expression at lower temperatures increased the level of soluble Rubisco LSMT and the associated enzymatic activity. However, the soluble form of Rubisco LSMT occurred as two molecular mass forms with the lower molecular mass suggestive of N-terminal processing at Ser-37. Deletion of 108 nucleotides from the 5' end encoding the N-terminal 36 amino acids of Rubisco LSMT resulted in a 10-fold increase in solubility and activity. Further addition of a 3' nucleotide sequence coding for a hexahistidyl carboxy-terminal peptide enabled purification of the N-terminally truncated Rubisco LSMT to homogeneity. Five milligrams of pure recombinant Rubisco LSMT was obtained from a 1-liter E. coli cell culture. The apparent kinetic constants for recombinant Rubisco LSMT for spinach Rubisco and AdoMet were only slightly different from the constants determined using affinity-purified native Rubisco LSMT from pea chloroplasts. However, there was a 6- to 7-fold reduction in the kcat for Rubisco LSMT, which was apparently a consequence of catalytic inactivation due to exposure to NiSO4 during purification. The availability of larger quantities of purified Rubisco LSMT should enable studies of the structure-function relationships in Rubisco LSMT and moreover its interaction with Rubisco.
We report here on a procedure to obtain large amounts of a chloroplast-localized heat shock protein (HSP21) with unknown structure and function, by using an Escherichia coli expression system for the pea (Pisum sativum) protein and a purification procedure based on perfusion ion-exchange chromatography. After initial precipitation steps, the sample was applied to cation- and anion-exchange on two columns connected in sequence, which allowed rapid purification of HSP21 in one equilibration and one elution step. The purified recombinant protein had an isoelectric point of 5. 0 and appeared in assembled, oligomeric form (approximately 200 kDa) composed of 21-kDa monomers, similar to the native HSP21 protein as detected by immunoblotting in plants after heat-stress treatment. This chloroplast-localized heat shock protein belongs to a special group of small heat shock proteins (sHSPs), which share an evolutionary conserved C-terminal domain with the vertebrate eye lens alpha-crystallin. The crystallins are known from both crystallographic and spectroscopic data to be all-beta proteins. In contrast, this paper presents circular dichroism spectroscopy data which shows that the purified recombinant HSP21 oligomer has a content of more than 30% alpha-helical secondary structure.
The levels of mRNAs for some of the sulfur-rich proteins in seeds are regulated by the level of sulfur supplied to the plants. In peas, there is a mechanism that lowers the level of mRNA for legumin and pea albumin 1 (PA1) when plants are grown under sulfur-deficient conditions. This mechanism acts after transcription initiation. In this study, a gene encoding PA1 was expressed in leaves of transgenic tobacco. Expression of the gene was controlled by the level of sulfur supplied to the plants, mimicking the behaviour of the intact gene in peas. A gene encoding a different high-sulfur protein, ovalbumin, was unresponsive to sulfur status and was used as a reporter gene to test defined regions of the PA1 gene for sulfur responsiveness. These constructs, together with a set of PA1 gene deletions, were tested in transgenic tobacco and yielded the following observations: the PA1 gene was sensitive to sulfur status in the leaf as well as the seed; intron processing of the PA1 transcript was not required for sensitivity to sulfur stress; both the coding region and the 3' flanking regions of the PA1 gene contained sequences which conferred sensitivity to sulfur stress; the sulfur-responsive sequence in the 3' region was contained within a 134-nucleotide segment downstream of the end of the coding sequence. We conclude that there are at least two downstream elements which confer sensitivity to sulfur supply.
Transgenic maize (Zea mays L.) and tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum Petit Havana SR1) plants have been generated, which overproduce a mitochondrial Nicotiana plumbaginifolia manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) in chloroplasts. For this, the mature MnSOD-coding sequence was fused to a chloroplast transit peptide from a Pisum sativum ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco) gene and expression of the chimeric gene was driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. The transgenic MnSOD gene product was correctly targeted to the chloroplasts both in maize and tobacco. However, despite the use of the CaMV 35S promoter, the MnSOD was predominantly localized in the chloroplasts of the bundle sheath cells of maize. Furthermore, the transit peptide was cleaved off at a different position in maize and tobacco.
A cDNA clone GmPM4 which encodes mRNA species in mature or dry soybean seeds was characterized. DNA sequence analysis shows that the deduced polypeptides have a molecular mass of 68 kDa. GmPM4 proteins have a relatively high amino acid sequence homology with a major biotinylated protein isolated from pea seeds, SBP65, but both of these proteins differ markedly from that of presently known biotin enzymes. The accumulation of GmPM4 mRNA is detectable in the leaf primodium and the vascular tissues of the hypocotyl-radicle axis of mature seeds, and the GmPM4 proteins are present at high levels in dry and mature soybean seeds, but not in fresh immature seeds. It degrades rapidly at the early stage of seed germination. These proteins are boiling-soluble and biotinylated when they are present endogenously in soybean seeds; however, the same recombinant protein expressed in Escherichia coli is boiling-soluble, but it is not biotinylated.
We isolated a genomic DNA harboring a cytosolic ascorbate peroxidase gene (ApxSC) from a genomic library of the strawberry (Fragaria x ananassa). Restriction mapping and sequence analyses showed that the DNA is composed of 2.5 kb of the full-length ApxSC gene, 3.7 kb of the 5'-upstream region, and 0.5 kb of the 3'-downstream region. The ApxSC genomic DNA contains 10 exons and 9 introns, which is similar to the structure of pea ApxI. A primer extension analysis suggested that the transcription of ApxSC gene was started at three start sites with different degrees. The promoter region of ApxSC gene contains a sequence or structure distinct from other reported plant ascorbate peroxidase genes, though with several known functional elements such as a TATA box.
Pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Alaska) axillary buds can be stimulated to cycle between dormant and growing states. Dormant buds synthesize unique proteins and are as metabolically active as growing buds. Two cDNAs, PsDRM1 and PsDRM2, were isolated from a dormant bud library. The deduced amino acid sequence of PsDRM1 (111 residues) is 75% identical to that of an auxin-repressed strawberry clone. PsDRM2 encodes a putative protein containing 129 residues, which includes 11 repeats of the sequence [G]-GGGY[H][N] (the bracketed residues may be absent). PsDRM2 is related to cold- and ABA-stimulated clones from alfalfa. Decapitating the terminal bud rapidly stimulates dormant axillary buds to begin growing. The abundance of PsDRM1 mRNA in axillary buds declines 20-fold within 6 h of decapitation; it quickly reaccumulates when buds become dormant again. The level of PsDRM2 mRNA is about three fold lower in growing buds than in dormant buds. Expression of PsDRM1 is enhanced in other non-growing organs (roots >> root apices; fully-elongated stems > elongating stems), and thus is an excellent "dormancy" marker. In contrast, PsDRM2 expression is not dormancy-associated in other organs.
The role of an A/T-rich positive regulatory region (P268, -444 to -177 from the translation start site) of the pea plastocyanin gene (PetE) promoter has been investigated in transgenic plants containing chimeric promoters fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. This region enhanced GUS expression in leaves of transgenic tobacco plants when fused in either orientation to a minimal pea PetE promoter (-176 to +4) and in roots when fused in either orientation upstream or downstream of a minimal cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter (-90 to +5). The region was also able to enhance GUS expression in microtubers of transgenic potato plants when placed in either orientation upstream of a minimal class I patatin promoter (-332 to +14). Dissection of P268 revealed that cis elements responsible for enhancing GUS expression from the minimal PetE promoter were distributed throughout P268. Multiple copies of a 31 bp A/T-rich sequence from within P268 and of a 26 bp random A/T sequence were able to enhance GUS expression from the minimal PetE promoter, indicating that A/T-rich sequences are able to act as quantitative, non-tissue-specific enhancer elements in higher plants.
We have isolated and sequenced the full length cDNA for topoisomerase I. Using degenerate primers, based on the conserved amino acid sequences of five eukaryotic topoisomerase I, a 386 bp fragment was PCR amplified using pea cDNA as template. This fragment was used as a probe to screen a pea cDNA library. Two partial cDNA clones were isolated which were truncated at the 5' end. RACE-PCR was employed to isolate the remaining portion of the gene. The total size of the gene was 3055 bp with an open reading frame of 2676 bp. The deduced structure of pea topoisomerase I contain 892 amino acids with a calculated molecular weight of 100 kDa and an estimated pI of 9.3. A comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of the pea topo I with the other eukaryotic topoisomerases clearly suggested that they are all related. Pea topoisomerase I has been overexpressed in E. coli system and the recombinant topoisomerase purified to homogeneity. The purified protein relaxes both positive and negative supercoiled DNA in the absence of divalent cation Mg2+. In the presence of Mg2+ ions the purified enzyme introduces positive supercoils a unique property not reported in any other organism except in archaebacterial topoisomerase I. Polyclonal antibodies were raised against recombinant topoisomerase I and western blotting with sub-cellular fractions indicated the localization of this topoisomerase in pea nuclei.
Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) promotes ethylene biosynthesis in stems of etiolated pea (Pisum sativum L.) seedlings by rapidly increasing the expression of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) synthase mRNA and by enhancing the activity of the enzyme. Two cDNA clones encoding ACC synthase, Ps-ACS1 and Ps-ACS2, were isolated from a cDNA library prepared from the apical hooks of etiolated pea seedlings that had been treated with 100 microns IAA for 4 h. While studying the expression pattern of IAA-induced ACC synthase mRNA, we observed that the probe for Ps-ACS1 hybridized to two transcripts of 1.6 and 1.9 kb on RNA gel blots. The shorter transcript accumulated before the longer one did, indicating that it is not a degradation product of the latter. Because a similar observation, namely hybridization of one ACC synthase probe to two transcripts, has also been reported in other species, we investigated the relationship between the 1.6- and 1.9-kb transcripts. DNA gel blot analysis using the entire cDNA as probe and RNA gel blot analysis using the 3'-untranslated region as probe indicated that both transcripts are encoded by the same gene. Oligonucleotide-directed RNase H mapping showed that the transcripts differ in the sequence of their 5'-ends. Using 5'-RACE to obtain the DNA sequence of the shorter, transcript, we determined that the 1.6-kb transcript (Ps-ACS1b) begins within the second exon of the 1.9-kb transcript (Ps-ACS1a) and lacks the first 383 bases. Thus, Ps-ACS1b does not encode a full-length ACC synthase protein. Because the Ps-ACS1b sequence is identical to that of Ps-ACS1a, including proper splicing of the second intron, Ps-ACS1b appears to result from the use of an alternative, internal promoter.
Two genes coding for S-adenosyl-l-methionine synthase (SAMS, EC 2.5. 1.6) were previously isolated from pea (Pisum sativum) ovaries. Both SAMS genes were highly homologous throughout their coding regions but showed a certain degree of sequence divergence within the 5' and the 3' untranslated regions. These regions have been used as gene-specific probes to analyze the differential expression of SAMS1 and SAMS2 genes in pea plants. The ribonuclease protection assay revealed different expression patterns for each individual gene. SAMS1 was strongly expressed in nearly all tissues, especially in roots. SAMS2 expression was weaker, reaching its highest level at the apex. Following pollination, SAMS1 was specifically up-regulated, whereas SAMS2 was expressed constitutively. The up-regulation of SAMS1 during ovary development was also observed in unpollinated ovaries treated with auxins. In unpollinated ovaries an increase in SAMS1 expression was observed as a consequence of ethylene production associated with the emasculation process. In senescing ovaries both SAMS1 and SAMS2 genes showed increased expression. Ethylene treatment of unpollinated ovaries led to an increase in the SAMS1 mRNA level. However, SAMS2 expression remained unchangeable after ethylene treatment, indicating that SAMS2 induction during ovary senescence was not ethylene dependent. SAMS mRNAs were localized by in situ hybridization at the endocarp of developing fruits and in the ovules of senescing ovaries. Our results indicate that the transcriptional regulation of SAMS genes is developmentally controlled in a specific way for each gene.
The transcription factor AtMYB2 binds to two sequence motifs in the promoter of the Arabidopsis ADH1 gene. The binding to the GT-motif (5'-TGGTTT-3') is essential for induction of ADH1 by low oxygen, while binding to the second motif, MBS-2, is not essential for induction. We show that AtMYB2 is induced by hypoxia with kinetics compatible with a role in the regulation of ADH1. Like ADH1, AtMYB2 has root-limited expression. When driven by a constitutive promoter, AtMYB2 is able to transactivate ADH1 expression in transient assays in both Arabidopsis and Nicotiana plumbaginifolia protoplasts, and in particle bombardment of Pisum sativum leaves. Mutation of the GT-motif abolished binding of AtMYB2 and caused loss of activity of the ADH1 promoter in both transient assays and transgenic Arabidopsis plants. These results are consistent with AtMYB2 being a key regulatory factor in the induction of the ADH1 promoter by low oxygen.
In plants, phosphatidylcholine is the major phospholipid in extra-plastid membranes and is synthesised mainly by the CDP-choline pathway. Evidence from studies in animals, as well as in plants, suggests that the intermediate step catalysed by cholinephosphate cytidylyltransferase (CPCT) has a major control in carbon flux to this lipid. We have isolated a full-length CPCT cDNA (designated PCT2) from Pisum sativum cv. Feltham First using an Arabidopsis probe and the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The deduced amino acid of PCT2 is 48%, 43% and 76% identical to the rat, yeast and Brassica napus amino acid sequences, respectively. Expression of the CPCT protein in Escherichia coli confirmed the activity of the enzyme. Expression of the PCT2 mRNA in pea roots and stems was increased by treatment with 0.1 microM indole-3-acetic acid.
In isolated pea (Pisum sativum L.) mitochondria incorporation of 35S-methionine into newly synthesised proteins was influenced by the presence of site-specific inhibitors of the respiratory electron-transport chain. These effects were not produced by changes in the rate of respiratory electron transport itself nor by changes in ATP concentration. Protein synthesis was inhibited by inhibitors of ubiquinone reduction but not by inhibitors of ubiquinol oxidation. By the use of additional inhibitors at specific sites of the respiratory chain, different oxidation-reduction states were obtained for the different complexes in the electron-transport chain. It was found that electron transport through succinate:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (respiratory complex II) was specifically required for protein synthesis, even when all the other conditions for protein synthesis were satisfied. We suggest that a subunit of complex II, or a component closely associated with complex II, is involved in a regulatory system that couples electron transport to protein synthesis.
We have isolated and characterized a genomic clone encoding the 41 kDa monomer T-protein. This gene called gdcT spans approximately 3 kbp and is composed of four exons interrupted by three introns (321, 691 and 114 bp). The splice sites for donor and acceptor are in agreement with the canonical GT/AG rule. Primer extension strongly suggests the presence of two major transcription start sites. The first transcription start site around 43 bases downstream of a putative TATA box was assigned the +1 position. The second (+31) is not correlated with a putative TATA box, but revealed a pyrimidine-rich region which is very similar to the initiator element. Sequence analysis of the 5'-upstream region of the gene reveals three consensus regions found in the nuclear genes encoding the chloroplastic proteins of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (rbcS) and the chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (cab) such as an AT-rich sequence localized at -539 to -530, a box II core sequence GGTTAA (-123 to -118) and between -364 and -354 a tandem GATA motif. These elements are known to be involved respectively in the regulation of light-responsiveness and cell-type specificity expression of plant genes. Gel shift assays indicate that the box II core sequence could bind protein nuclear factors similar to the trans-acting factor which interact with corresponding promoter region of rbcS gene.
Pea early browning virus (PEBV) is transmitted between plants by root-feeding trichodorid nematodes. Mutagenesis studies have implicated two non-structural viral proteins in the transmission process. These two proteins [the 29 kDa ('29K') protein and the 23K protein] were expressed in bacteria and used to raise antibodies. In Western blotting experiments, the antibodies detected both of these virus proteins in leaves and roots of infected Nicotiana bethamiana and N. clevelandii plants. Periodate treatment of proteins transferred to nitrocellulose membranes suggested that the PEBV 23K protein may be glycosylated. A PEBV mutant was constructed lacking the complete 23K coding sequence. The mutant was able systemically to infect Nicotiana spp. but caused striking chlorotic ringspot leaf symptoms and stunting of both leaves and roots. These symptoms were absent in plants doubly-infected with the mutant and wild-type PEBV. The 23K gene deletion mutant was transmitted by nematodes at a much reduced frequency compared to wild-type virus, indicating that the 23K protein is involved in but not essential for vector transmission. Western immuno-blot and ELISA experiments revealed that the reduction in the nematode-transmissibility of PEBV carrying mutations in the 23K gene did not result from interference in the expression of the 29K transmission protein or from gross changes in the titre of virus in the roots of infected plants.
A reversibly glycosylated polypeptide from pea (Pisum sativum) is thought to have a role in the biosynthesis of hemicellulosic polysaccharides. We have investigated this hypothesis by isolating a cDNA clone encoding a homolog of Arabidopsis thaliana, Reversibly Glycosylated Polypeptide-1 (AtRGP1), and preparing antibodies against the protein encoded by this gene. Polyclonal antibodies detect homologs in both dicot and monocot species. The patterns of expression and intracellular localization of the protein were examined. AtRGP1 protein and RNA concentration are highest in roots and suspension-cultured cells. Localization of the protein shows it to be mostly soluble but also peripherally associated with membranes. We confirmed that AtRGP1 produced in Escherichia coli could be reversibly glycosylated using UDP-glucose and UDP-galactose as substrates. Possible sites for UDP-sugar binding and glycosylation are discussed. Our results are consistent with a role for this reversibly glycosylated polypeptide in cell wall biosynthesis, although its precise role is still unknown.
Axillary buds of pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Alaska) do not grow on intact plants. Dormant axillary buds can be stimulated to grow rapidly after decapitation. Here, we isolated cDNAs of PCNA, cyclinB, cyclinD, and cdc2 from pea. The mRNA expression levels of these genes were very low in dormant axillary buds, whereas they remarkably increased after decapitation. Based on the mRNA accumulation patterns of these genes, we found that most cells in dormant axillary buds are arrested at the G1 phase in the cell cycle. There are four buds at the second node on pea seedlings. After decapitation, mRNAs became abundant in the large and small buds and were kept during the following 3 d. After 4 d, mRNAs were still present in the large bud, but not in the small bud. However, after removal of the large bud, the mRNA levels started to increase again in the small bud. These mRNA accumulation patterns were the same as those after the first decapitation. These results suggested that most cells in axillary buds at the second node are arrested at the G1 phase again and have the capacity to undergo multiple cycles of dormancy and growth. Moreover, in situ hybridization analyses demonstrated that PCNA mRNA increased in all parts of the axillary buds after decapitation.
The cytosolic and two recombinant precursors, containing 10 and 30 amino acid spacers between the transit peptide and the mature region of the chloroplast flavoprotein ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase (FNR), were expressed in Escherichia coli cells. These proteins were purified rendering fully active precursors that contained bound FAD. Neither the transit peptide nor the spacers affected the formation of the tightly folded enzyme structure. Protease treatment of the folded precursors resulted in a rapid removal of the transit sequence, rendering an enzymatically active resistant core, even at high protease concentration. All three preproteins could be efficiently imported by isolated pea chloroplasts. Addition of the enzyme substrate NADP+ to the import medium slightly decreased the polypeptide translocation. The precursor bound to isolated chloroplasts in the presence or absence of leaf extracts was as resistant to proteolysis as the folded precursor in solution. In contrast, the FNR precursor unfolded by urea was rapidly digested even at the lowest protease concentration. Together, our results indicate that precursor unfolding may take place during translocation but not during binding to chloroplast envelopes or by interaction with leaf extract soluble factors, and that this process is independent of the distance between the transit peptide and the folded mature region of the protein.
The genes encoding pea and potato mitochondrial tRNAGly and pea mitochondrial tRNASer(GCU) were analyzed with particular respect to their expression. Secondary-structure models deduced from the identical potato and pea tRNAGly gene sequences revealed A7:C66 mismatches in the seventh base pair at the base of the acceptor stems of both tRNAs. Sequence analyses of tRNAGly cDNA clones showed that these mispairings are not corrected by C66 to U66 conversions, as observed in plant mitochondrial tRNAPhe. Likewise, a U6:C67 mismatch identified in the acceptor stem of the pea tRNASer(GCU) is not altered by RNA editing to a mismatched U:U pair, which is created by RNA editing in Oenothera mitochondrial tRNACys. In vitro processing reactions with the respective tRNAGly and tRNASer(GCU) precursors show that such conversions are not necessary for 5' and 3' end maturation of these tRNAs. These results demonstrate that not all C:A (A:C) or U:C (C:U) mismatches in double-stranded regions of tRNAs are altered by RNA editing. An RNA editing event in plant mitochondrial tRNAs is thus not generally indicated by the presence of a mismatch but may depend on additional parameters.
Many RNA viruses express part of their genomic information by read-through over internal termination codons. We have recently characterized tobacco cytoplasmic (cyt) and chloroplast (chl) tRNACmCATrp and tRNAGCACys as natural suppressor tRNAs that are able to read the leaky UGA codon in RNA-1 of tobacco rattle virus, albeit with different efficiencies. Here we have identified a third natural UGA suppressor in plants. We have purified and sequenced four cyt tRNAArg isoacceptors with ICG, CCG, U*CG and CCU anticodons from wheat germ. With the exception of tRNAICGArg, these are the first sequences of plant tRNAsArg. In order to study the potential suppressor activity of wheat tRNAsArg we have used in vitro synthesized mRNA transcripts in which different viral read-through regions had been placed. In vitro translation was carried out in a homologous wheat germ extract. We found that tRNAU*CGArg is an efficient UGA suppressor in vitro, whereas the other three tRNAArg isoacceptors exhibit no or very low suppressor activity. Interaction of tRNAU*CGArg with the UGA codon requires a G:U base pair at the third anticodon position. This is the first time that an arginine-accepting tRNA has been characterized as a natural UGA suppressor. A remarkable feature of cyt tRNAU*CGArg is its ability to misread the UGA at the end of the coat protein cistron in RNA-1 of pea enation mosaic virus, which is not accomplished by cyt tRNACmCATrp or cyt tRNAGCACys, due to an unfavourable codon context.
Plastids of nongreen tissues import carbon as a source of biosynthetic pathways and energy. Within plastids, carbon can be used in the biosynthesis of starch or as a substrate for the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway, for example. We have used maize endosperm to purify a plastidic glucose 6-phosphate/phosphate translocator (GPT). The corresponding cDNA was isolated from maize endosperm as well as from tissues of pea roots and potato tubers. Analysis of the primary sequences of the cDNAs revealed that the GPT proteins have a high degree of identity with each other but share only approximately 38% identical amino acids with members of both the triose phosphate/phosphate translocator (TPT) and the phosphoenolpyruvate/phosphate translocator (PPT) families. Thus, the GPTs represent a third group of plastidic phosphate antiporters. All three classes of phosphate translocator genes show differential patterns of expression. Whereas the TPT gene is predominantly present in tissues that perform photosynthetic carbon metabolism and the PPT gene appears to be ubiquitously expressed, the expression of the GPT gene is mainly restricted to heterotrophic tissues. Expression of the coding region of the GPT in transformed yeast cells and subsequent transport experiments with the purified protein demonstrated that the GPT protein mediates a 1:1 exchange of glucose 6-phosphate mainly with inorganic phosphate and triose phosphates. Glucose 6-phosphate imported via the GPT can thus be used either for starch biosynthesis, during which process inorganic phosphate is released, or as a substrate for the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway, yielding triose phosphates.
A series of overlapping clones complementary to the Arabidopsis cytosine-5 DNA methyltransferase (C-5 MTase) has been isolated from pea cDNA libraries. The assembled nucleic acid sequence contains an open reading frame of 4761 bp encoding a protein of 1554 amino acids. Like other eukaryotic C-5 MTases, the inferred protein has a presumed regulatory N-terminal region linked to a catalytic C-terminal domain, which has eight of the ten conserved motifs found in prokaryotic C-5 MTases. The pea C-5 MTase has 65% identity at the nucleotide level and 61% identity at the protein level, with the Arabidopsis C-5 MTase. The catalytic domain of the pea enzyme shares 78% identity with Arabidopsis and approximately 52% identity with murine and human C-5 MTases, including the relative position of the proline-cysteine dipeptides of the catalytic centre. Using the conserved region of the cDNA as a probe, we have identified a transcript of 5 kb. Southern blot analysis of pea genomic DNA with the above probe indicates the presence of a single gene. Using poly(A)+ RNA from different developmental stages and different tissues, we have observed that expression is confined mostly to the rapidly dividing tissues of the plant. Expression of this assembled cDNA in a baculovirus system gives a protein of approximately 174 kDa. The expressed protein can be cross-linked, in an AdoMet-dependent manner, to duplex oligonucleotide substrates containing FdC in place of target cytosines in either CG or CAG/CTG sequences.
The cDNA for the chloroplast-located homolog of bacterial RecA protein, designated recA-AT, was placed in a plasmid appropriate for in vitro transcription and translation. Translation with 35S-labeled Met permitted demonstration of uptake of the protein product into isolated pea chloroplasts, and processing to a mature size. Preliminary evidence for the first amino acid was estimated from results using both 35S-Met and 3H-Leu for in vitro transcription and translation, followed by uptake into chloroplasts and processing. The labeled protein was subject to sequential amino acid hydrolyses, and radioactivity was measured in each round. Induction of gene transcription in leaves infiltrated with the DNA-damaging agent, methyl methane-sulfonate was shown by Northern blot analysis. Further constructs were made for over-expression of the gene in E. coli; and one out of many tried permitted production of some soluble protein. Extracts from transformed bacteria were shown to have RecA activity using the "POM" assay [Bertrand et al. (1993) Nucl. Acids Res. 21:3653] for DNA strand transfer. The protein was purified to close to homogeneity using methods developed for E. coli RecA isolation.
We cloned a developmentally regulated gene from a cDNA library constructed from short-day (SD) grown G2 pea tissue using cDNA representational difference analysis (cDNA RDA) and named it PPF-1 for the first Pisum sativum post-floral-specific gene. Sequence comparisons with various databases revealed that PPF-1 shares a substantial homology only at the deduced amino-acid level with the Bacillus subtilis gene SP3J, which is required for maintaining vegetative growth, and with other genes coding for bacterial inner membrane proteins. All five potential hydrophobic regions from the bacterial proteins were maintained in the PPF-1 sequence. A series of Northern blots showed that this gene was only expressed after floral initiation and was limited to the apical buds, with non-detectable levels in roots, stems and mature leaves. Under SD conditions, when G2 pea displays an unlimited growth habit, PPF-1 expression was sustained at a relatively high level long after floral initiation. Under long-day (LD) conditions, when G2 pea undergoes an apical senescence similar to wild-type plants with genotype sn hr, PPF-1 was only expressed very briefly after flower initiation. Interestingly, in day-neutral, wild-type Alaska pea, the PPF-1 level was hardly detectable under any growth conditions. Treatment of LD-grown G2 pea with gibberellin A3 (GA3) was able to stimulate PPF-1 expression unless it was applied at a very late growth stage, at which time the process of apical senescence cannot be reversed.
Anthocyanin production in higher plants is a function of the tissue considered and its developmental stage, and is modulated by environmental factors. In maize, the best characterized system, regulation of the pathway is achieved largely through the action of proteins with homology to the transcriptional factors encoded by myc and myb proto-oncogenes of animals; these homologues control the expression of structural genes and thus regulate the availability of anthocyanin biosynthetic enzymes. We have studied anthocyanin biosynthesis and its regulation in flowers of pea (Pisum sativum). Our results demonstrate a correlation between anthocyanin accumulation and steady-state mRNA levels for genes encoding chalcone synthase, flavanone 3 beta-hydroxylase, and dihydroflavonol 4-reductase in developing flowers. Patterns of expression for these biosynthetic genes in both a and a2 mutants confirm the regulatory roles of the two a loci. The reduced expression of all three biosynthetic genes in mutant lines suggests that genes acting both early and late in the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway are controlled by a and a2. Particle bombardment of floral tissue demonstrates the ability of two maize R-like genes, Lc and R-S, but neither myb-like genes nor R-like genes from snapdragon or petunia, functionally to complement a and a2 mutations. We cannot distinguish whether a and a2 act coordinately or sequentially in anthocyanin regulation, but the epistatic action of maize R-like genes suggests that they mimic the action of a gene that normally functions downstream of both a and a2 in the regulatory cascade.
Medicarpin, the major phytoalexin in alfalfa, is synthesized via the isoflavonoid branch of phenylpropanoid metabolism. The methyl group at the 9 position of medicarpin is generally accepted to arise via the methylation of the 4' position (B-ring) of daidzein. Surprisingly, the isoflavone-O-methyltransferase (IOMT), which is induced along with other enzymes involved in medicarpin biosynthesis, methylates the A-ring 7-hydroxyl group of daidzein in vitro, a reaction that probably does not occur in vivo. Utilizing internal amino acid sequence information from purified alfalfa IOMT, we have isolated three full-length IOMT cDNA clones. A search of the protein databases revealed sequence similarities to O-methyltransferases from various sources. The highest match (50.5% identity) was found between IOMT8 and 6a-hydroxymaackiain 3-O-methyltransferase from Pisum sativum. The molecular weight of alfalfa IOMT expressed in Escherichia coli was similar to that of purified IOMT from alfalfa cell cultures (41 kDa by SDS-PAGE). The recombinant enzyme catalyzed the O-methylation of A-ring hydroxyl group(s) of isoflavones, and could also methylate the pterocarpan (+) 6a-hydroxymaackiain. Alfalfa contains multiple IOMT genes, and closely related sequences are present in the genomes of chickpea and cowpea, species that also produce B-ring methylated isoflavonoids in vivo. Northern blot analysis indicated that IOMT transcripts are rapidly induced following elicitation, prior to the increase in IOMT activity and medicarpin accumulation. The possible role of the isoflavone 7-OMT in the synthesis of formononetin in vivo is discussed.
A second glutathione reductase (GR) cDNA has been cloned and sequenced from pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Birte). This new GR cDNA (GOR2) does not encode a pre-protein with a transit peptide and therefore is most likely to represent a cytosolic GR. It is significantly different at the DNA level from the previously cloned chloroplastidial/mitochondrial pea GR (GOR1), but retains the features characteristic of GRs from all sources and has GR activity when expressed in Escherichia coli. GOR2 maps to linkage group 6 on the pea genome map and it seems likely that this is the only locus for this gene. In contrast to GOR1, transcript levels of GOR2 increase in the recovery (post-stress) phases of both drought and chilling by about ten- and three-fold respectively. GOR2 therefore may play a role in the restoration of the post-stress redox state of the cytosolic glutathione pool.
Besides biotin-dependent carboxylases, which play key roles in basic metabolism, SBP65 (seed biotinylated protein of 65 kDa of apparent molecular mass), an atypical biotinylated protein, has been described in pea plants. This seed-specific protein is devoid of any carboxylase activity, and shares many physiological and molecular features with late embryogenesis-abundant (Lea) proteins. In a first step toward understanding the role of this peculiar protein, we have demonstrated the role of abscisic acid (ABA) and of the osmotic environment on its expression using northern blot analysis from immature embryos cultured in vitro and germinating mature seeds. Moreover, the cloning and characterization of its gene (referred to as sbp gene) allowed us to define various potential cis-acting elements within the promoter region to account for the observed strict seed-specific expression. The results described in this paper are consistent with a model in which ABA regulates, at least in part, expression of this gene. However, unlike most lea genes, ABA regulation of the sbp gene seems to occur in a very restricted fashion, being confined only to particular stages of embryo development. Such a strict spatial and temporal expression pattern is dependent on the osmotic environment of the developing embryos and on tissue-specific factors, presumably preventing biotin depletion in cells requiring this essential cofactor for basic metabolic activity.
Pisatin is the major phytoalexin produced by pea upon microbial infection. The enzyme that catalyzes the terminal step in the pisatin biosynthetic pathway is (+)6a-hydroxymaackiain 3-O-methyltransferase (HMM). We report here the isolation and characterization of two HMM cDNA clones (pHMM1 and pHMM2) made from RNA obtained from Nectria haematococca-infected pea tissue. The two clones were confirmed to encode HMM activity by heterologous expression in Escherichia coli. The substrate specificity of the methyltransferases in E. coli was similar to the activity detected in CuCl2-treated pea tissue. Nucleotide sequence analysis of Hmm1 and Hmm2 revealed an open reading frame of 1080 bp and 360 amino acid residues which would encode 40.36 kda and 40.41 kDa polypeptides, respectively. The deduced amino acid sequence of HMM1 has 95.8% identity to HMM2, 40.6% identity to Zrp4, a putative O-methyltransferase (OMT) in maize root, and 39.1% to pBH72-F1, a putative OMT induced in barley by fungal pathogens or UV light. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of the cDNA clones to OMTs from other higher plants identified the binding sites of S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet). Southern blot analysis showed two closely linked genes with strong homology to Hmm in the pea genome.
Irradiation of etiolated Arabidopsis or pea, or dim-red-light-grown pea seedling with a single, short (under 10 s) pulse of blue light (threshold at 0.1 mumol/m2) is sufficient to induce the expression of specific members of the Lhcb gene family including the pea Lhcb1*4 gene and the Arabidopsis Lhcb1*3 gene. Other Lhcb genes, such as the pea Lhcb1*3 gene and the Arabidopsis Lhcb1*1 and 1*2 genes are unaffected by this blue-light treatment. Transgenic Arabidopsis bearing pea Lhcb1*3::Gus (beta-glucuronidase), pea Lhcb1*4::Gus or Arabidopsis Lhcb1*3::Gus constructs were used to determine if pea and Arabidopsis employ a similar mechanism to achieve blue-light induced Lhcb expression. Examination of the respective Gus expression patterns in white-light-grown seedlings indicates that the pea promoters are active and properly expressed in the Arabidopsis background. Irradiation of dark-grown Arabidopsis with a 20 s pulse of blue light with a total fluence of 100 mumol/m-2 results in expression of the pea Lhcb1*4::Gus (beta-glucuronidase) construct, but not of the pea Lhcb1*3::Gus construct indicating that the pea promoters respond correctly to blue light in the Arabidopsis background. Fluence-response, time-course and reciprocity characteristics for the blue-light-induced expression of the pea Lhcb1*4::Gus construct closely resemble those of the endogenous Arabidopsis Lhcb genes, confirming the proper interpretation of the Arabidopsis blue-light-signaling mechanism by the pea Lhcb1*4 promoter and suggesting that the signaling mechanisms in the two plants are very similar, if not identical. Fluence response data for the steady-state level of transcript derived from an Arabidopsis Lhcb1*3::Gus construct extending 200 bp upstream of the site of transcription indicate that the blue light responsive elements(s) are contained within this 200 bp region.
Plant Myb proteins represent a group of transcription factors which have a DNA-binding domain similar to that found in the products of the animal myb proto-oncogenes. Members of the Myb family regulate the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoids, including anthocyanin and phlobaphene pigments, in several species. In this study, PCR with degenerate primers was used to analyse the presence of myb-like genes in pea (Pisum sativum L.). A fragment representing a flower bud-expressed gene, designated myb26, was recovered, and a full length cDNA was isolated from a pea flower bud cDNA library. The predicted protein is 217 amino acids long and its Myb-domain and carboxy terminal region show extensive homology to the snap-dragon proteins Myb305 and Myb340, both of which regulate phenylpropanoid biosynthesis. Expression of myb26 is flower-specific and parallels the expression of flavonoid biosynthetic genes, increasing as the flower bud matures and intensifies in colour. However, myb26 represents neither of the two known regulatory genes for anthocyanin production in pea, nor does it complement mutants of the myb-like anthocyanin regulatory gene an2 in petunia. Myb26 was expressed in E. coli as a fusion protein. It was shown that in vitro Myb26 recognizes the c-Myb and P-box-like binding sites representing cis-elements in the promoter regions of several phenylpropanoid biosynthetic genes. The results suggest that myb26 is a previously undefined gene involved in regulation of some aspect of phenylpropanoid production in pea.
Ascorbate peroxidase (AP) is a key enzyme that scavenges potentially harmful H2O2 and thus prevents oxidative damage in plants, especially in N2-fixing legume root nodules. The present study demonstrates that the nodule endodermis of alfalfa (Medicago sativa) root nodules contains elevated levels of AP protein, as well as the corresponding mRNA transcript and substrate (ascorbate). Enhanced AP protein levels were also found in cells immediately peripheral to the infected region of soybean (Glycine max), pea (Pisum sativum), clover (Trifolium pratense), and common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) nodules. Regeneration of ascorbate was achieved by (homo)glutathione and associated enzymes of the ascorbate-glutathione pathway, which were present at high levels. The presence of high levels of antioxidants suggests that respiratory consumption of O2 in the endodermis or nodule parenchyma may be an essential component of the O2-diffusion barrier that regulates the entry of O2 into the central region of nodules and ensures optimal functioning of nitrogenase.
Removal of border cells from pea roots synchronizes and induces root cap cell division, wall biogenesis and differentiation. Three messages which are expressed differentially in such induced root caps have been cloned. Sequence analyses showed that the PsHRGP1-encoded protein has high homology with a homology with a hydroxyproline-rich glycoprotein. The PsCaP23-encoded protein has high homology with an alfalfa callus protein or translationally controlled human or mouse tumor protein P23. The PsRbL41-encoded protein has high homology with a highly basic 60S ribosomal protein L41. In situ hybridization showed that PsHRGP1. PsCaP23 and PsRbL41 messages are localized within dividing cells of the root cap. PsHRGP1 is highly expressed in uninduced root caps, but its message is repressed by 10-11 times as soon as cell division and differentiation begin. Expression of PsHRGP1 recovers to higher than (180%) its initial level in 30 min. PsHRGP1 is root-specific. PsCaP23 and PsRbL41 messages increase ca. 3-fold within 15 min after root cap induction. All three genes represent small families of 3-5 closely related genes in the pea genome.
The coding and 3'-downstream regions of the gene encoding the high mobility group protein HMG-I/Y from pea have been isolated, sequenced and characterised. A 795 bp pea genomic fragment containing the coding region of the pea HMG-I/Y gene with a single intron of 201 bp was isolated by PCR. The gene encodes a protein of 197 amino acid residues with four copies of the AT-hook DNA-binding motif encoded by exon 2. Southern blot analysis on genomic DNA revealed the presence of a single copy of the HMG-I/Y gene in the haploid genome. The pea HMG-I/Y gene is expressed in all organs of pea including roots, stems, leaves, flowers, tendrils and developing seeds, as determined by northern blot analysis.
Here, we examine the cis-elements and trans-factors affecting the expression of asparagine synthetase (AS) genes whose transcription is negatively regulated by light. The promoters for the AS1 and AS2 genes of pea were isolated, sequenced, and functionally dissected for their ability to confer regulated expression to the GUS reporter gene in transgenic tobacco. Histochemical analysis of transgenic plants demonstrated that the AS1 and AS2 promoters show identical patterns of cell-specific expression. The more highly active AS1 promoter was further demonstrated to confer negative light-regulation to the GUS gene in transgenic tobacco. Deletion analysis and gain-of-function experiments showed that 124 bp of the AS1 promoter was sufficient to confer light-activated repression to a heterologous promoter. Potential conserved transcription regulatory elements, Box B, Box C, and Box C' within this region were shown to bind to nuclear proteins by gel shift analysis. A light-specific DNA:protein interaction was detected with Box B. The nuclear factors that bind to Box C and C' elements of AS1 are competed by a putative repressor element 'RE1' defined previously in the oat phytochrome gene whose transcription is also repressed by light. The Box B and C/C'-Box/RE1-binding factors were found in nuclear extracts of tobacco, pea, and Arabidopsis and may therefore be universal factors involved in light-activated transcriptional repression.
The role of functional and intact chloroplasts in mediating the ultraviolet-B (UV-B, 290-320 nm) regulation of two nuclear genes encoding light-harvesting complex II proteins in pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Extra Early Alaska) was studied. Plants with chloroplasts lacking or containing carotenoids and functional photosystem II were obtained by growth under dim red light (0.2 µmol m
Reporter strains of soil-borne bacteria were used to test the hypothesis that chemicals released by root border cells can influence the expression of bacterial genes required for the establishment of plant-microbe associations. Promoters from genes known to be activated by plant factors included virE, required for Agrobacterium tumefaciens pathogenesis, and common nod genes from Rhizobium leguminosarum bv viciae and Rhizobium meliloti, required for nodulation of pea (Pisum sativum) and alfalfa (Medicago sativum), respectively. Also included was phzB, an autoinducible gene encoding the biosynthesis of antibiotics by Pseudomonas aureofaciens. The virE and nod genes were activated to different degrees, depending on the source of border cells, whereas phzB activity remained unaffected. The homologous interaction between R. leguminosarum bv viciae and its host, pea, was examined in detail. Nod gene induction by border cells was dosage dependent and responsive to environmental signals. The highest levels of gene induction by pea (but not alfalfa) border cells occurred at low temperatures, when little or no bacterial growth was detected. Detached border cells cultured in distilled water exhibited increased nod gene induction (ini) in response to signals from R. leguminosarum bv viciae.
Seed protein proglobulins were synthesized from cDNAs in reticulocyte lysates. Most proglobulins were recovered as trimers when translation rates were low, but mostly monomers were recovered at high translation rates. The prevalence of monomers was accompanied by elevated amounts of insoluble protein recovered at the bottom of sucrose density gradients. Apyrase treatment of translation mixtures after synthesis, but before significant assembly occurred, drastically reduced trimer assembly and increased the proportion of insoluble aggregate. These observations indicated that ATP is required for protein folding and/or trimer assembly. The appearance of insoluble aggregated protein when rates of synthesis were elevated or when ATP was absent suggested that protein misfolding had occurred. Trimer assembly was stimulated when wheat germ translation mixtures defective in supporting efficient trimer assembly were supplemented with fractions isolated from endoplasmic reticula of developing pea (Pisum sativum) seeds. Molecular chaperones are likely involved in folding and/or assembly of proglobulin trimers both in reticulocyte lysates and in seeds. Consistent with this hypothesis, trimer formation was reduced when carboxymethylated bovine albumin and alpha-casein, considered to mimic proteins with extended chain and molten globular conformations and thereby compete for Hsp70- and Hsp60-type molecular chaperones, respectively, were introduced into translation mixtures.
Changes in the level of the mitochondrial chaperone mtHSP70 have been investigated in pea (Pisum sativum) leaf mitochondria by Western blot analysis and quantified by scanning densitometry. As pea leaves develop (from 6 days to 30 days of age) the levels of mtHSP70 decrease. Analysis of the levels of the alpha subunit of the F1ATPase show that the levels of this protein remain constant throughout the same developmental period, whereas the levels of the alternative oxidase increase. In vitro import of the alternative oxidase precursor protein into pea leaf mitochondria from day 6 to day 30 leaves and quantification by scanning densitometry indicates that protein import efficiency decreases with increasing maturity of the plant cell. Results are discussed in terms of how changing levels of the mtHSP70 chaperone, as a result of plant cell development, influence the efficiency of protein import.
A cDNA EST clone encoding the C-terminal portion of Arabidopsis thaliana fumarase was identified by homology analysis. A fragment of cDNA encoding the N-terminal region of fumarase was amplified from a cDNA library using PCR and cloned. Genomic DNA corresponding to the coding region of fumarase was amplified and cloned. Arabidopsis fumarase was expressed as a chimeric fusion protein and polyclonal antibodies were generated. Fumarase was purified to near-homogeneity (over 600-fold) from etiolated Pisum sativum mitochondria. The identification of fumarase was confirmed by a combination of immunoblot and N-terminal amino acid sequencing. Kinetic analysis of highly purified fumarase yielded a KM(malate) of 0.45 mM and a Vmax(malate) of 650 mumol of fumarate/min/ mg. The pea fumarase was inhibited by the alpha-keto acids pyruvate and alpha-ketoglutarate at low millimolar concentrations. Adenylates were highly inhibitory; the degree of this inhibition was reduced in the presence of Mg2+, suggesting that uncomplexed adenylates are the inhibitory species.
Ferredoxin-NADP+ reductases (FNR) participate in cellular defense against oxidative damage. Escherichia coli mutants deficient in FNR are abnormally sensitive to methyl viologen and hydrogen peroxide. Tolerance to these oxidants was regained by expression of plant FNR, superoxide dismutase, or catalase genes in the mutant cells. FNR contribution to the concerted defense against viologen toxicity under redox-cycling conditions was similar to that of the two major E. coli superoxide dismutases together, as judged by the phenotypes displayed by relevant mutant strains. However, FNR expression in sodA sodB strains failed to increase their tolerance to viologens, indicating that the FNR target is not the superoxide radical. Sensitivity of FNR-deficient cells to oxidants is related to extensive DNA damage. Incubation of the mutant bacteria with iron chelators or hydroxyl radical scavengers provided significant protection against viologens or peroxide, suggesting that oxidative injury in FNR-deficient cells was mediated by intracellular iron through the formation of hydroxyl radicals in situ. The NADP(H)-dependent activities of the reductase were necessary and sufficient for detoxification, without participation of either ferredoxin or flavodoxin in the process. Possible mechanisms by which FNR may exert its protective role are discussed.
Pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Greenfeast) plants were exposed to supplementary ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation (biologically effective dose rates normalised to 300 nm, UV-B[BE,300]: 0.18, 0.32 or 1.4 W m[-2]). Leaf nicotinamide, trigonelline, GSHtot (total glutathione) and GSSG (oxidised glutathione) levels remained unchanged after exposure to the lowest dose rates. 1.4 W m(-2) UV-B(BE,300) gave rise to 60-fold and 4.5-fold increases in GSSG and GSHtot, respectively. 3.5-fold and 9.5-fold increases were found in nicotinamide and trigonelline, respectively. cab (Chlorophyll-a/b-binding protein) transcript levels decreased and CHS (chalcone synthase) and PAL (phenylalanine ammonia-lyase) mRNA increased after shorter UV-B exposures (hours) to the higher dose rate of UV-B, and after exposure to the intermediate dose rate. CHS and PAL mRNAs also increased after prolonged exposure to the lowest dose rate. cab transcripts completely disappeared, whereas CHS and PAL mRNA levels rose by 60-fold and 17-fold, respectively, after 12 h exposure at the highest dose rate and 12 h of development. Our results indicate that nicotinamide or trigonelline do not function as signalling compounds for CHS and PAL gene expression. Elevated nicotinamide and trigonelline levels occur in response to UV-B, but only at UV-B doses high enough to cause oxidative stress.
Using functional complementation with a Schizosaccharomyces pombe genomic library, we have isolated a clone complementing a G1/S phase progression defective mutant. The newly isolated temperature-sensitive mutant, cyj150, showed elongated morphology at a restrictive temperature of 36 degrees C and DNA content analysis of the mutant indicated a defect in cell cycle progression at the G1/S phase. Sequence analysis of the genomic and cDNA clones complementing this elongated phenotype at 36 degrees C show that it encodes a protein that has 50% amino acid identity with dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and garden pea. Alignment of the deduced amino acid sequence of S. pombe dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (dld1+) with glutathione reductase and mercuric reductase revealed extensive homologies throughout the primary sequence and protein structure, and contained amino acid sequences of the active site region conserved from prokaryote to higher eukaryote. Gene disruption and tetrad analysis showed that dld1+ is an essential gene for cell viability. Northern analysis indicates that transcriptional expression of this gene is not fluctuated according to the cell cycle. However, it is certain that malfunction of this Dld1 protein blocks the progression of cell cycle from G1 to S phase. The sequence of the dld1+ gene is available in EMBL/GenBank under Accession Number L40360.
Incorporation by RNA polymerases of BrUTP into both plant root tissue and isolated plant nuclei as a method for localization of the sites of transcription has been used. In this paper pea root tissue was used, and under the conditions employed, nearly all the incorporation occurs in the nucleolus, and thus must be catalysed by RNA polymerase I. Immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy shows that incorporation occurs in a pattern consisting of many small foci distributed widely through the dense fibrillar component of the nucleoli. Immunogold labelling using silver-enhanced Nanogold probe at the electron microscopic level confirms the sites of transcription as small foci approximately 200 nm in diameter. Simultaneous fluorescence in situ hybridization with a probe to the external transcribed spacer (ETS) region of the pre-rRNA shows that the structures revealed by this probe and the BrUTP immunofluorescence labelling are very similar. A probe to the transcribed portion of the rDNA (18S) also shows a good correlation to the sites of BrUTP incorporation within the nucleolus. On the other hand a probe to the non-transcribed intergenic spacer region (NTS) shows very little coincidence with the sites of BrUTP incorporation, and double fluorescence in situ labelling with both 18S and NTS probes confirms this difference in localization. These results suggest that most BrUTP foci correspond to single transcribed genes.
Expression of the pea plastocyanin gene (PetE) is regulated by light in both pea and transgenic tobacco plants. However, the PetE promoter with the 5' untranslated leader region does not direct light-regulated expression of the GUS reporter gene in transgenic tobacco. This suggested that sequences downstream of the translation start of the PetE gene are required for light-regulated expression. To investigate this possibility the expression of a series of chimeric gene constructs in transgenic tobacco plants was examined to assess the contributions of the promoter, the 5' untranslated leader region, the coding region and the 3' region of the PetE gene to light-regulated expression. Both the coding region and the 5' untranslated leader region of the PetE gene were found to be required for full light regulation. Full light regulation of chimeric gene constructs containing the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter required the deletion of CaMV 5' leader and polylinker sequences from the constructs. The presence of CaMV and polylinker sequences at the 5' end of the PetE leader masked the light regulation directed by the transcribed region of the pea PetE gene.
The lip1 mutant of pea (Pisum sativum L.) exhibits a de-etiolated phenotype. When grown in darkness, lip1 plants have several characteristics normally associated only with light-grown plants. Young wild-type (WT) seedlings accumulate high levels of transcripts from plastid-related genes (such as those encoding chlorophyll a/b-binding proteins, ferredoxin, and the small subunit of Rubisco) only in the light. In contrast, regardless of the light conditions under which the plants are grown, young mutant seedlings accumulate transcript levels equal to or greater than those seen in light-grown WT seedlings of the same age. Under some conditions, light-grown lip1 seedlings failed to respond to dark treatment. The largest response to darkness observed in the mutant occurred when older seedlings were first grown under low-light conditions before transfer to darkness. The mutant's inability to respond to darkness is not due to a gross disturbance in the circadian clock. We conclude that environmental signals (light) and endogenous programs (developmental and circadian) regulate gene expression in both WT and mutant plants. However, mutant seedlings exhibit a developmentally regulated and exaggerated response to light. In addition, the effect of the mutation may be greatest during a brief period early in development.
The plant hormone indoleacetic acid (IAA) transcriptionally activates early genes in plants. The Aux/IAA family of early genes encodes proteins that are short-lived and nuclear-localized. They also contain a putative prokaryotic betaalphaalpha DNA binding motif whose formation requires protein dimerization. Here, we show that the pea PS-IAA4 and Arabidopsis IAA1 and IAA2 proteins perform homo- and heterotypic interactions in yeast using the two-hybrid system. Gel-filtration chromatography and chemical cross-linking experiments demonstrate that the PS-IAA4 and IAA1 proteins interact to form homodimers in vitro. Deletion analysis of PS-IAA4 indicates that the betaalphaalpha containing acidic C terminus of the protein is necessary for homotypic interactions in the yeast two-hybrid system. Screening an Arabidopsis lambda-ACT cDNA library using IAA1 as a bait reveals heterotypic interactions of IAA1 with known and newly discovered members of the Arabidopsis Aux/IAA gene family. The new member IAA24 has similarity to ARF1, a transcription factor that binds to an auxin response element. Combinatorial interactions among the various members of the Aux/IAA gene family may regulate a variety of late genes as well as serve as autoregulators of early auxin-regulated gene expression. These interactions provide a molecular basis for the developmental and tissue-specific manner of auxin action.
Differential RNA display was used to analyze gene expression during the early steps of mycorrhiza development on Pisum sativum following inoculation with Glomus mosseae. Seven out of 118 differentially displayed cDNA fragments were subcloned and sequenced. One fragment corresponded to part of the fungal 25S ribosomal RNA gene and a second one showed similarity to a human Alu element. The others were derived from plant genes of unknown function. One of the fragments was used for the isolation of a full-length cDNA clone. It corresponded to a single-copy gene (psam1) which is induced during early symbiotic interactions, and codes for a putative transmembrane protein. Northern and RNA dot blot analyses revealed enhanced accumulation of psam1 RNA after inoculation with G. mosseae of wild-type pea and an isogenic mutant deficient for nodule development (Nod-, Myc+).
A genomic clone of RbcS was isolated from an alfalfa (Medicago sativa L. cv. Apica) genomic library and characterized. Although this clone has structural features similar to a functional gene, the second exon is interrupted by a stop codon and thus is not fully translatable in the plant. Sequence analysis of the 5' and 3' noncoding regions of RbcSK-1A showed a high sequence homology to the flanking sequences of the RbcS-3A gene from pea. The regions of homology contain many important cis-regulatory elements shown to be essential for regulation of the RbcS-3A gene in pea. The promoter of this alfalfa rubisco clone was used in a translational fusion to test its ability to control the expression of the GUS reporter gene in an homologous nuclear background. High levels of GUS enzyme activity were recorded. These strong levels are comparable to some exceptionally high levels produced in other studies following the use of photosynthesis gene promoters in fusions with the GUS reporter gene.
Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae UPM791 contains a second copy of the fnrN gene, which encodes a redox-sensitive transcriptional activator functionally homologous to Escherichia coli Fnr. This second copy (fnrN2) is located in the symbiotic plasmid, while fnrN1 is in the chromosome. Isolation and sequencing of the fnrN2 gene revealed that the deduced amino acid sequence of FnrN2 is 87.5% identical to the sequence of FnrN1, including a conserved cysteine-rich motif characteristic of Fnr-like proteins. Individual R. leguminosarum fnrN1 and fnrN2 mutants exhibited a Fix+ phenotype and near wild-type levels of nitrogenase and hydrogenase activities in pea (Pisum sativum L.) nodules. In contrast, an fnrN1 fnrN2 double mutant formed ineffective nodules lacking both nitrogenase and hydrogenase activities. Unlike the wild-type strain and single fnrN1 or fnrN2 mutants, the fnrN1 fnrN2 double mutant was unable to induce micro-oxic or bacteroid activation of the hypBFCDEX operon, which encodes proteins essential for hydrogenase synthesis. In the search for symbiotic genes that could be controlled by FnrN, a fixNOQP operon, putatively encoding a micro-oxically induced, bacteroid-specific cbb3-type terminal cytochrome oxidase, was isolated from strain UPM791 and partially sequenced. The fixNOQP operon was present in a single copy located in the symbiotic plasmid, and an anaerobox was identified in the fixN promoter region. Consistent with this, a fixNOQP'-lacZ fusion was shown to be highly induced in micro-oxic cells of the wild-type strain. A high level of micro-oxic induction was also observed in single fnrN1 and fnrN2 mutants, but no detectable induction was observed in the fnrN1 fnrN2 double mutant. The lack of expression of fixNOQP in the fnrN1 fnrN2 double mutant is likely to cause the observed Fix- phenotype. These data demonstrate that, contrary to the situation in other rhizobia, FnrN controls both hydrogenase and nitrogenase activities of R. leguminosarum bv. viciae UPM791 in the nodule and suggest that this strain lacks a functional fixK gene.
A number of mRNAs in plant mitochondria contain inverted repeats at their 3'-termini. These have been discussed as potential transcription terminators or, alternatively, as post-transcriptional processing and stability signals of longer precursor RNAs. In vitro transcription in a pea mitochondrial lysate now shows that transcription proceeds almost unimpeded through these inverted repeat structures. To investigate their potential function in mRNA processing, we developed an in vitro processing system from pea mitochondria. This in vitro system correctly processes synthetic precursor mRNAs containing the pea atp9 double stem-loop structure, yielding the same 3'-termini observed in vivo. Analysis of the in vitro-generated products and of the processivity of the reaction suggests exonucleolytic degradation up to the stem-loop. The inverted repeat structures found at the 3'-termini of mRNAs in plant mitochondria are thus recognized as processing and most likely also stabilizing signals in transcript maturation, but do not terminate transcription.
The major gibberellin (GA) controlling stem elongation in pea (Pisum sativum L.) is GA1, which is formed from GA20 by 3beta-hydroxylation. This step, which limits GA1 biosynthesis in pea, is controlled by the Le locus, one of the original Mendelian loci. Mutations in this locus result in dwarfism. We have isolated cDNAs encoding a GA 3beta-hydroxylase from lines of pea carrying the Le, le, le-3, and led alleles. The cDNA sequences from le and le-3 each contain a base substitution resulting in single amino acid changes relative to the sequence from Le. The cDNA sequence from led, a mutant derived from an le line, contains both the le "mutation" and a single-base deletion, which causes a shift in reading frame and presumably a null mutation. cDNAs from each line were expressed in Escherichia coli. The expression product for the clone from Le converted GA9 to GA4, and GA20 to GA1, with Km values of 1.5 microM and 13 microM, respectively. The amino acid substitution in the clone from le increased Km for GA9 100-fold and reduced conversion of GA20 to almost nil. Expression products from le and le-3 possessed similar levels of 3beta-hydroxylase activity, and the expression product from led was inactive. Our results suggest that the 3beta-hydroxylase cDNA is encoded by Le. Le transcript is expressed in roots, shoots, and cotyledons of germinating pea seedlings, in internodes and leaves of established seedlings, and in developing seeds.
We describe the isolation, cloning and expression of a 2.8 kb promoter fragment of the Blec4 gene from pea (Pisum sativum cv. Alaska) and demonstrate that it is capable of directing the expression of the beta-glucuronidase coding region to the developing epidermal tissue of vegetative and floral shoot apices of transgenic alfalfa (Medicago sativa cv. RegenSY). The Blec4 promoter represents a useful tool with which to target the expression of foreign genes to the epidermal layer of actively growing shoots. The activity of the Blec4 promoter in the epidermis of the shoot apex makes it particularly suitable for genetically engineering defense against insects and diseases that attack the growing shoot apex.
We describe the isolation of the Le gene of pea, which controls internode elongation and originally was described by Mendel. Heterologous screening of a pea cDNA library yielded a partial clone that was 61% identical to coding regions of the putative Arabidopsis gibberellin 3 beta-hydroxylase gene, GA4. DNA gel blot analysis with this cDNA revealed a HindIII restriction fragment length polymorphism between pea isolines differing at Mendel's Le locus. Genomic clones of the GA4-related gene were isolated from the Le and le isolines. Polymerase chain reaction combined with restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis were used to show that the gene mapped to the Le locus. A cDNA containing a complete open reading frame of the pea GA4-related gene was amplified by polymerase chain reaction from each isoline. Recombinant expression in Escherichia coli demonstrated that the product of the Le cDNA was a gibberellin 3 beta-hydroxylase that is able to convert GA20 to the bioactive GA1. Substantially reduced levels of gibberellin 3 beta-hydroxylase activity were measured, after expression of the le cDNA, by using identical methods. This reduced activity was associated with an alanine-to-threonine substitution in the predicted amino acid sequence of the enzyme near its proposed active site.
Higher plants synthesize small heat-shock proteins (smHSPs) from five related gene families. The class I and II families encode cytosolic smHSPs. We characterized the class II smHSPs of pea (Pisum sativum) and compared them with class I smHSPs. Antibodies against recombinant HSP17.7, a class II smHSP, recognized four heat-inducible 17- to 18-kD polypeptides and did not cross-react with class I smHSPs. On sucrose gradients the class II smHSPs sedimented primarily at 8 Svedberg units, indicating that they are components of large complexes similar in size to class I smHSP complexes. However, the class I and II complexes were readily distinguishable by nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and isoelectric focusing. Nondenaturing immune precipitations using anti-HSP17.7 or anti-HSP18.1 (a class I smHSP) antiserum provide further evidence that the class I and II smHSPs exist in different complexes, composed primarily of smHSPs. Recombinant HSP17.7 and HSP18.1 formed complexes of sizes similar to those formed in vivo. When these two smHSPs were mixed, denatured with urea, and then dialyzed, the distinct class I and II complexes again formed, each containing only HSP18.1 or HSP17.7. Thus, cytosolic smHSPs from two related gene families expressed simultaneously form distinct complexes in vivo, suggesting that they have subtly different functions.
Natural recombinant tobacco rattle tobravirus (TRV) isolates contain sequences from a different tobravirus, pea early browning virus (PEBV). To characterize the sequence requirements for viable recombinant formation hybrid cDNA clones of RNA2 of PEBV and TRV were assembled. Inclusion of 320 nt from the 5' terminus of PEBV or 335 nt from the 5' terminus of TRV in the hybrid RNAs was sufficient to permit their replication by, respectively, PEBV RNA1 or TRV RNA1 regardless of the origin of the 3' terminal region. However, PEBV RNA1 but not TRV RNA1 was sometimes able to support low level replication of RNA2 containing the heterologous 5' terminal region. In vitro translation of PEBV transcripts containing 5' noncoding region deletions supported the hypothesis that in vivo the PEBV coat protein (CP) is expressed from a subgenomic RNA and that, therefore, in the recombinants the CP subgenomic promoter probably is recognized by the replicase of the heterologous virus.
The vegetative phenotype of the pea mutant unifoliata (uni) is a simplification of the wild-type compound leaf to a single leaflet. Mutant uni plants are also self-sterile and the flowers resemble known floral meristem and organ identity mutants. In Antirrhinum and Arabidopsis, mutations in the floral meristem identity gene FLORICAULA/LEAFY (FLO/LFY) affect flower development alone, whereas the tobacco FLO/LFY homologue, NFL, is expressed in vegetative tissues, suggesting that NFL specifies determinacy in the progenitor cells for both flowers and leaves. In this paper, we characterised the pea homologue of FLO/LFY. The pea cDNA homologue of FLO/LFY, PEAFLO, mapped to the uni locus in recombinant-inbred mapping populations and markers based on PEAFLO cosegregated with uni in segregating sibling populations. The characterisation of two spontaneous uni mutant alleles, one containing a deletion and the other a point mutation in the PEAFLO coding sequences, predicted that PEAFLO corresponds to UNI and that the mutant vegetative phenotype was conferred by the defective PEAFLO gene. The uni mutant demonstrates that there are shared regulatory processes in the morphogenesis of leaves and flowers and that floral meristem identity genes have an extended role in plant development. Pleiotropic regulatory genes such as UNI support the hypothesis that leaves and flowers derive from a common ancestral sporophyll-like structure. The regulation of indeterminancy during leaf and flower morphogenesis by UNI may reflect a primitive function for the gene in the pre-angiosperm era.
Protoplasts isolated from pea leaves (Pisum sativum L. cv. Hurst Greenshaft) were electroporated in the presence of plasmid pDR#1, which contains the rat liver ATP:citrate lyase gene fused to a duplex 35S cauliflower mosaic virus promoter with a transit peptide sequence of the Rubisco small subunit. The level of enzyme expression and viability of protoplasts were both influenced by polyethylene glycol treatment before electroporation. Under the optimised electroporation conditions, an average increase of ATP:citrate lyase activity of 14% was observed in the transfected cells after 24 h, with a similar magnitude of change in the abundance of the corresponding mRNA. Immunoblot analysis confirmed the correct expression and targeting of ATP:citrate lyase protein in the chloroplasts of pea protoplasts. These results provide a basis for the establishment of a procedure for targeting heterologous protein into pea plastids in the presence of a transit peptide.
Genes encoding phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) form a small multigene family with at least three members in pea. Tissue-specific expression of the promoter of a member of PAL gene family (PSPAL1) was investigated in the transgenic tobacco transformants carrying the different modes of chimeric fusion between the PSPAL1 promoter and a bacterial beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene. In stems, at least, strict correlation was found between steady-state levels of Gus-mRNA and enzyme activity. Significantly high level of GUS activity was observed in roots, particularly in meristematic tissues and the pigmented region of petals of transgenic tobacco carrying the translational fusion type B (-1,394 to +140 of PSPAL1 connected to Gus), followed by moderately high level of GUS activity carrying the translational fusion type A (-1,394 to +117). GUS expression in tissues of mature leaves, however, was very low in these constructs. Extremely low GUS activity was observed in the transformants of transcriptional fusion type (-1,394 to +5), whilst no activity was detected carrying non-transcription fusion type (-1,394 to -27). Furthermore, the pattern of the PSPAL1 expression was characterized in response to pathogen ingress and woundings in transgenic tobacco carrying the translational fusion type B. Woundings itself triggered marked expression of PSPAL1-driven GUS expression at the wounded sites. Inoculation of nonpathogens, Phytophthora capsici, P. boehmeriae and Erisiphe graminis f. sp. hordei, both caused rapid and very clear GUS expression zone along with the development of hypersensitive cell death area where callose was accumulated, however, the inoculation of a pathogen, P.nicotiana caused slow and hazy GUS expression zone along with the lesion development. These results suggest that the expression of pea PSPAL1 promoter is regulated in a similar fashion, at least in a part, in pea and transgenic tobacco, under the plant development and various environmental cues.
The D1 reaction centre protein of photosystem II (PSII), encoded by the plastid psbA gene, has the highest turnover rate of all thylakoid proteins, due to light-induced damage to D1. The expression of the psbA gene was studied in chloroplasts of fully developed pea (Pisum sativum L.) leaves during high-light photoinhibitory treatment and subsequent restoration of PSII function at low light. psbA transcript levels were determined and the translational activity was followed by in vivo pulse-labelling, by in vitro translations with intact chloroplasts, and by run-off translations on isolated thylakoid membranes. PSII photochemical efficiency was determined in vivo by monitoring the ratio of variable fluorescence to maximal fluorescence (F(V)/F(M)). Enhanced D1 synthesis in pea leaves, upon a shift first from darkness to growth light and subsequently to high light, was accompanied by a substantial increase in the total number of pshA transcripts and by the accumulation of psbA mRNA x initiation complexes on thylakoid membrane. This suggested that high-light illumination increased the transcriptional activity of the psbA gene in mature leaves, and that enhanced translational initiation of psbA mRNA was followed by docking of the initiation complexes to the thylakoid membrane. The high-light-induced increase in the number of thylakoid-associated psbA mRNA x initiation complexes, occurred in parallel with enhanced in vivo D1 synthesis. This, however, did not result in an enhanced accumulation of D1 translation products in in vitro run-off translations when pea leaves were shifted from growth light to high light. This may suggest that at high light only a portion of thylakoid-associated psbA mRNA can be under translational elongation at a given moment. When the leaves were shifted from high light to low light to allow repair of PSII, thylakoid-associated psbA mRNA was rapidly released from the membrane and the high-light-induced pool of psbA transcripts was degraded. The synthesis of the D1 protein decreased on the same time scale. However, the restoration of PSII photochemical function, measured as F(V)/F(M), took a substantially longer time. It is concluded that during changing light conditions, mature leaves are able to adjust psbA gene expression both at the transcriptional and at the translational level.
Upstream sequences (including the first seven codons) of a metallothionein (MT)-like gene from pea, PsMTA, were fused to GUS and introduced into Arabidopsis. High-level GUS expression was detected in the roots of plants grown on MS medium, except in regions proximal to the root apex. There was precise delineation of the root-shoot boundary. In soil-grown plants there was low GUS expression and this was absent from the more mature regions of the roots. In the aerial tissues of soil-grown plants, GUS expression was restricted to hydathodes, stipules, expanding cotyledons and the following senescent tissues: leaves, cotyledons, petals, sepals, filaments, stigmas, nectaries and siliques. A 298 bp region was shown to be required for GUS expression in roots but not for expression in vegetative aerial tissues of plants grown on MS medium. This region contains predicted ethylene-responsive elements (EREs) but similar patterns of GUS expression were detected in etr1 seedlings. GUS expression was significantly higher in roots exposed to 500 nM copper, but this increase was small in proportion to expression in roots exposed to 50 nM copper.
Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae expresses an uptake hydrogenase in symbiosis with peas (Pisum sativum) but, unlike all other characterized hydrogen-oxidizing bacteria, cannot express it in free-living conditions. The hydrogenase-specific transcriptional activator gene hoxA described in other species was shown to have been inactivated in R. leguminosarum by accumulation of frameshift and deletion mutations. Symbiotic transcription of hydrogenase structural genes hupSL originates from a -24/-12 type promoter (hupSp). A regulatory region located in the -173 to -88 region was essential for promoter activity in R. leguminosarum. Activation of hupSp was observed in Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia coli cells expressing the K. pneumoniae nitrogen fixation regulator NifA, and in E. coli cells expressing R. meliloti NifA. This activation required direct interaction of NifA with the essential -173 to -88 regulatory region. However, no sequences resembling known NifA-binding sites were found in or around this region. NifA-dependent activation was also observed in R. etli bean bacteroids. NifA-dependent hupSp activity in heterologous hosts was also absolutely dependent on the RpoN sigma-factor and on integration host factor. Proteins immunologically related to integration host factor were identified in R. leguminosarum. The data suggest that hupSp is structurally and functionally similar to nitrogen fixation promoters. The requirement to coordinate nitrogenase-dependent H2 production and H2 oxidation in nodules might be the reason for the loss of HoxA in R. leguminosarum and the concomitant NifA control of hup gene expression. This evolutionary acquired control would ensure regulated synthesis of uptake hydrogenase in the most common H2-rich environment for rhizobia, the legume nodule.
To determine whether the role of coat protein (CP) in cell-to-cell movement of dicot-adapted cowpea chlorotic mottle bromovirus (CCMV) is distinct from that of monocot-adapted brome mosaic bromovirus (BMV), two reporter genes, beta-glucuronidase (GUS) and enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP), were substituted for the CP in a biologically active clone of CCMV RNA3 (C3). Primary leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana, Chenopodium quinoa, and cowpea were co-inoculated with wild-type (wt) CCMV RNA 1 and -2 and either C3/delta CP-GUS or C3/delta CP-EGFP and analyzed for GUS activity or the presence of green fluorescence. The visual appearance of infections caused by GUS or EGFP variants indicated that, in CCMV, epidermal cell-to-cell movement can occur without a functional CP. By contrast, inoculation of MP defective variants of C3/delta CP-GUS or C3/delta CP-EGFP resulted in subliminal infections. Additional experiments examining the infectivity of wt BMV RNA 1 and -2 and a BMV RNA3 variant bearing the EGFP in the place of CP (B3/delta CP-EGFP) confirmed previous observations that, unlike CCMV, epidermal cell-to-cell movement of BMV is dependent on the expression of a functional CP. Taken together, the results demonstrate that BMV and CCMV use different mechanisms for initial epidermal cell-to-cell spread, and the individual role played by the respective CP genes in this active process is discussed.
We have isolated seven genomic chalcone synthase (CHS) genes and six classes of CHS cDNA from elicitor-treated pea tissues. Comparison of the nucleotide sequences of the coding regions revealed the existence of eight members of the CHS gene family in pea. These can essentially be divided into three groups (PSCHS1, 2 and 8; PSCHS3, 4 and 5; and PSCHS6 and 7) on the basis of nucleotide and or amino acid sequence comparisons of the coding regions, introns and promoter regions. We previously reported that the accumulation of CHS mRNAs is induced by elicitor treatment. Accumulation of CHS mRNA was observed mainly in roots and very little was found in floral organs. To specifically detect expression of each CHS gene in various types of pea cells. S1 nuclease protection assays were performed. Interestingly, the classification of the eight members of the CHS gene family based on the sequence identity was found to reflect their expression patterns as determined by the S1 nuclease protection assay. The first group of CHS genes, PSCHS1, 2 and 8, was strongly induced not only by elicitor treatment and UV irradiation but is also constitutively expressed in root and flower tissues. The second group, PSCHS3, 4 and 5, was also strongly induced by elicitor treatment and UV irradiation but is constitutively expressed only in root. Expression of the third group, PSCHS6 and 7 was barely detectable in any of the organs tested and was not influenced by environmental stimuli such as elicitor or UV. Furthermore, sequence analysis of the promoter region of each member of the CHS gene family revealed that putative cis-regulatory elements, such as Box-I. Box-II and G-Box, were conserved only in PSCHS1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. From these results we propose that an ancestral CHS gene might have given rise to defense response-related (UV irradiation- and elicitor-responsive) and -unrelated (unresponsive) genes at an early stage of evolution, followed by divergence within these subclasses based upon the developmental program in pea.
A cDNA encoding a nucleolar protein was selected from a pea (Pisum sativum) plumule library, cloned, and sequenced. The translated sequence of the cDNA has significant percent identity to Xenopus laevis nucleolin (31%), the alfalfa (Medicago sativa) nucleolin homolog (66%), and the yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) nucleolin homolog (NSR1) (28%). It also has sequence patterns in its primary structure that are characteristic of all nucleolins, including an N-terminal acidic motif, RNA recognition motifs, and a C-terminal Gly- and Arg-rich domain. By immunoblot analysis, the polyclonal antibodies used to select the cDNA bind selectively to a 90-kD protein in purified pea nuclei and nucleoli and to an 88-kD protein in extracts of Escherichia coli expressing the cDNA. In immunolocalization assays of pea plumule cells, the antibodies stained primarily a region surrounding the fibrillar center of nucleoli, where animal nucleolins are typically found. Southern analysis indicated that the pea nucleolin-like protein is encoded by a single gene, and northern analysis showed that the labeled cDNA binds to a single band of RNA, approximately the same size and the cDNA. After irradiation of etiolated pea seedlings by red light, the mRNA level in plumules decreased during the 1st hour and then increased to a peak of six times the 0-h level at 12 h. Far-red light reversed this effect of red light, and the mRNA accumulation from red/far-red light irradiation was equal to that found in the dark control. This indicates that phytochrome may regulate the expression of this gene.
Escherichia coli strains were genetically engineered to express an Hg2+ transport system and metallothionein. Overexpression of a glutathione S-transferase fusion protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae or pea metallothionein significantly increased the bioaccumulation of Hg2+ transported by MerT and MerP and protected the cells from the accumulated Hg2+. The recombinant strains have excellent properties for bioremediation of Hg(2+)-contaminated environments.
A pea pod cDNA library was screened for sequences specific to lignifying tissue. A cDNA clone (pLP19) encoding the C-terminal region of a hsp70 heat shock protein hybridised only to pod mRNA from pea lines where pod lignification occurred. Expression of pLP19 was induced by heat shock in leaves, stems and roots of pea and chickpea plants. Four different poly(A) addition sites were observed in cDNAs derived from the same gene as pLP19. This gene was fully sequenced; unlike most hsp70 genes, it contains no introns. The 5'-flanking sequence contains heat shock elements and other potential regulatory sequences.
Chloroplast carbonic anhydrase is dependent on a reducing environment to retain its catalytic activity. To investigate the properties of the three accessible cysteine residues of pea carbonic anhydrase, mutants were made in which Ala or Ser substituted for C165, C269, and C272. The mutants at position 165 were found to be spectroscopically similarly to the wild-type. They have a high catalytic activity, and are also sensitive to oxidation. In contrast, both C269 and C272 were found to be critical both for the structure and for the catalytic activity. All mutants with substitutions at either of these two positions had to be co-overexpressed with GroES/EL chaperones to give soluble enzyme in Escherichia coli. The k(cat) values were decreased by 2 and 3 orders of magnitude for the C272A and C269A mutants, respectively, and the Km values were increased approximately 7 times. However, the binding of the inhibitor ethoxyzolamide was only slightly weakened. The near-UV CD spectra were found to be changed in both sign and intensity compared to that of the wild-type, and the far-UV spectra indicate some loss of alpha-helix structure. Moreover, the quaternary structure was changed from the wild-type octameric to tetrameric in these mutants. The results indicate that mutation of either of these cysteines causes minor structural changes around at least one of the two tryptophans of the subunit. Furthermore, the data demonstrate that C269 and C272 are involved in the interaction between subunits and are necessary for a proper structure at the tetramer-tetramer interface.
This study established that the mutant creep and ageotropum phenotypes are expressed differently during development in pea (Pisum sativum L.). Etiolated ageotropum stems grew at a wide range of angles, whereas etiolated creep stems emerged vertically from the compost. However, when etiolated creep stems were subjected to additional gravitropic demands, such as growth to excessive height or reorientation, abnormality was detectable. When plants were handled to a greater extent, earlier loss of vertical growth resulted. In light-grown shoots, creep lost vertical orientation, whereas ageotropum grew more normally. Root systems of creep exhibited normal growth patterns, whereas ageotropum main and lateral roots grew at abnormal angles. Thus, the ageotropum mutation strongly affects gravitropism in roots and etiolated stems, whereas the creep mutation affects both light- and dark-grown stems, but is most apparent in older, taller plants.
The intracellular compartmentation of biotin holocarboxylase synthetase has been investigated in pea (Pisum sativum) leaves, by isolation of organelles and fractionation of protoplasts. Enzyme activity was mainly located in cytosol (approx. 90% of total cellular activity). Significant activity was also identified in the soluble phase of both mitochondria and chloroplasts. Two enzyme forms were separated by anion-exchange chromatography. The major form was found to be specific for the cytosol compartment, whereas the minor form was present in mitochondria as well as in chloroplasts. We also report the isolation and DNA sequence of a cDNA encoding an Arabidopsis thaliana biotin holocarboxylase synthetase. This cDNA was isolated by functional complementation of a conditional lethal Escherichia coli birA (biotin ligase gene, which regulates biotin synthesis) mutant. This indicated that the recombinant plant protein was able to biotinylate specifically an essential apoprotein substrate in the bacterial host, that is a subunit of acetyl-CoA carboxylase called biotin carboxyl carrier protein. The full-length nucleotide sequence (1534 bp) encodes a protein of 367 amino acid residues with a molecular mass of 41172 Da and shows specific regions of similarity to other biotin holocarboxylase synthetase genes as isolated from bacteria and yeast, and with cDNA species from human. A sequence downstream of the first translation initiation site encodes a putative peptide structurally similar to organelle-targeting pre-sequences, suggesting a mitochondrial or chloroplastic localization for this isoform.
A 268 bp region (P268) of the pea plastocyanin gene promoter responsible for high-level expression has been shown to interact with the high mobility group proteins HMG-1 and HMG-I/Y isolated from pea shoot chromatin. cDNAs encoding an HMG-1 protein of 154 amino acid residues containing a single HMG-box and a C-terminal acidic tail and an HMG-I/Y-like protein of 197 amino acid residues containing four AT-hooks have been isolated and expressed in Escherichia coli to provide large amounts of full-length proteins. DNase I footprinting identified eight binding sites for HMG-I/Y and six binding sites for HMG-1 in P268. Inhibition of binding by the antibiotic distamycin, which binds in the minor groove of A/T-rich DNA, revealed that HMG-I/Y binding was 400-fold more sensitive than HMG-1 binding. Binding-site selection from a pool of random oligonucleotides indicated that HMG-I/Y binds to oligonucleotides containing stretches of five or more A/T bp and HMG-1 binds preferentially to oligonucleotides enriched in dinucleotides such as TpT and TpG.
Trypsin inhibitors from winter pea seeds (c.v. Frilene) have been purified and shown to consist of six protease inhibitors (PSTI I, II, III, IVa, IVb, and V). Based on amino acid composition, molecular mass, and N-terminal sequence, the six inhibitors are closely related to one another and belong to the Bowman-Birk family of inhibitors. To define the relations among them, molecular mass and amino acid composition of peptides obtained from digestion with trypsin were determined. The sequence and the biosynthetic mechanism of the isoform formation have been partially resolved for four major isoforms. Two isoinhibitor forms (PSTI IVa, IVb) in pea seeds are due to expression of two distinct genes; PSTI IVa has four amino acid replacements when its sequence is compared with the sequence of PSTI IVb. Two others (PSTI I, II) result from posttranslational proteolytic cleavage of nine C-terminal residues of forms PSTI IVa and IVb, respectively.
PCR was used with degenerate primers based on conserved amino acid sequences in gibberellin (GA) 20-oxidases to isolate cDNA clones for these enzymes from young seeds of pea (Pisum sativum) and developing embryos of French bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). One GA 20-oxidase cDNA (Ps27-12) was obtained from pea and three (Pv 15-11, Pv73-1 and Pv85-26) from bean. Their identities were confirmed by demonstrating that fusion proteins expressed in Escherichia coli exhibited GA 20-oxidase activity, converting [14C]GA12 to [14C]GA9. The intermediates in this three-step reaction, GA15 and GA24, were also identified as products. The expression proteins from three of the clones (Ps27-12, Pv15-11 and Pv73-1) were also shown to convert GA53 to GA20, as effectively as they did GA12. On the basis of transcript levels measured by northern blot analysis, the pea GA 20-oxidase gene is most highly expressed in young leaves, fully expanded internodes, very young seeds (until 4 days after anthesis) and expanding pods (from 3 days after anthesis at least until day 6). Expression in pods from 3-day-old unpollinated ovaries is higher than in those from pollinated ovaries. Treatment of unpollinated ovaries with GA3 to induce parthenocarpic fruit-set severely reduced the amount of GA 20-oxidase mRNA, whereas treatment with 2,4-D, although inducing fruit-set, did not reduce the levels of these transcripts. Plant decapitation above an unpollinated ovary resulted in very high levels of GA 20-oxidase mRNA in the pod. The three GA 20-oxidase genes from French bean showed very different patterns of expression: Pv 15-1 was expressed in the roots, young leaves, and developing seeds, but most highly in immature cotyledons, while Pv73-1 has a similar expression pattern to Ps27-12, with transcripts found only in young seeds and young leaves, where it was particularly abundant. Transcripts corresponding to Pv85-26 were detected in developing seeds, and just traces in the young leaves. Southern blot analysis indicated that the bean GA 20-oxidases are each encoded by single-copy genes, whereas one more gene, homologous to Ps27-12, could also exist in pea.
Pea root plastid porin (Fischer et al. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 25754-25760), which belongs to the family of mitochondrial (eukaryotic) porins, was expressed in Escherichia coli in high amounts using the pQE expression system. The recombinant protein was reconstituted into lipid bilayer membranes, and its characteristic properties were compared to those of the native porin isolated from pea root plastids. No significant difference was found between the native and the recombinant form when the protein was preincubated in detergent and sterol. The recombinant porin seems to be a valuable model system for the study of eukaryotic porins by spectroscopic methods, in which high amounts of protein are needed. CD spectroscopy was performed to determine the secondary structure of the porin under different conditions. It was found to have a high degree of beta-sheet structure in the nonionic detergent Genapol X-80 and in lipid vesicles. The more polar detergent sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) induced a large amount of alpha-helix structure in the protein. Addition of sterol to the porin in Genapol buffer did not influence its secondary structure to any measurable extent, whereas it had a strong influence on channel forming activity in black lipid bilayers. First refolding experiments performed in decreasing urea concentrations are discussed together with the results of the other measurements with regard to protein folding and channel formation.
Petal senescence is an example of a highly reproducible cell death programme. In this programme, DNA is fragmented internucleosomally and cells with condensed nuclei containing an increased number of 5' ends can be detected with the TUNEL technique. The pea homologue of defender against apoptotic death (dad), a gene described to suppress endogenous programmed cell death in Caenorhabditis elegans and mammals was isolated. Expression studies show that dad declines dramatically upon flower anthesis disappearing in senescent petals, and is down-regulated by the plant hormone ethylene.
Gibberellins (GAs) are hormones required for several aspects of plant development, including internode elongation and seed development in pea (Pisum sativum L.). The first committed step in the GA biosynthesis pathway is the conversion of geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGDP) to ent-kaurene via copalyl diphosphate (CDP). These two reactions are catalyzed by the cyclases ent-kaurene synthase A (KSA) and ent-kaurene synthase B (KSB), respectively. Previous genetic and biochemical analysis of the GA-responsive ls-1 mutant of pea suggested that GA levels are reduced in a developmental- and organ-specific manner due to reduced GA biosynthesis. Analysis of cellfree enzyme preparations from WT and ls-1 embryos at contact point reveals that ls-1 reduces the activity of KSA but not KSB. To characterize the ls-1 mutation in more detail, a cDNA coding for a pea KSA was cloned and shown to be encoded by the LS locus. The ls-1 mutation results from an intronic G to A substitution that causes impaired RNA splicing. To determine the activity of the KSAs encoded by the LS and ls-1 alleles, a new in vitro assay for combined KSA and KSB activity has been developed using the KSB gene of pumpkin. Using recombinant WT KSA and KSB fusion proteins, GGDP is converted to ent-kaurene in vitro. Based on the sequence of RT-PCR products, three different truncated KSA proteins are predicted to exist in ls-1 plants. The most abundant mutant KSA protein does not possess detectable activity in vitro. Nevertheless, the ls-1 allele is not null and is able to encode at least a partially functional KSA since a more severe is allele has been identified. The ls-1 mutation has played a key role in identifying a role for GAs in pea seed development in the first few days after fertilization, but not in older seeds. KSA expression in seeds is developmentally regulated and parallels overall GA biosynthesis, suggesting that KSA expression may play an important role in the regulation of GA biosynthesis and seed development.
Three ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (ADPG-PPase) cDNA clones have been isolated and characterized from a pea cotyledon cDNA library. Two of these clones (Psagps1 and Psagps2) encode the small subunit of ADPG-PPase. The deduced amino acid sequences for these two clones are 95% identical. Expression of these two genes differs in that the Psagps2 gene shows comparatively higher expression in seeds relative to its expression in other tissues. Psagps2 expression also peaks midway through seed development at a time in which Psagps1 transcripts are still accumulating. The third cDNA isolated (Psagp11) encodes the large subunit of ADPG-PPase. It shows greater selectivity in expression than either of the small subunit clones. It is highly expressed in sink organs (seed, pod, and seed coat) and undetectable in leaves.
The seed coat is a maternal organ which surrounds the embryo and is involved in the control of its nutrition. This study with pea (Pisum sativum L.) was conducted to understand more fully the sucrose/starch interconversions occurring in the seed coat. The concentrations of soluble sugars, the starch content, and the activities of the sucrose-metabolizing enzymes, sucrose synthase (Sus; EC 2.4.1.13), alkaline and soluble acid invertase (EC 3.2.1.26) and sucrose-phosphate synthase (SPS; EC 2.4.1.14) were compared at four developmental stages during seed filling. Among the four enzymes, only Sus activity was very high and strongly correlated with the starch concentration in the seed coat. Sucrose synthase catalyses the cleavage of sucrose in the presence of UDP into UDP-glucose and fructose. Sucrose synthase was purified from pea seed coats in a three-step protocol, consisting of diethylaminoethyl-Sephacel chromatography, gel filtration and affinity chromatography. The enzyme was characterized at the biochemical and molecular levels. Sucrose synthase exhibits biochemical properties which allow it to function in the direction of both sucrose cleavage and synthesis. The mass-action ratio of its four substrate was close to the theoretical equilibrium constant at the four developmental stages we studied. A labelling experiment on seed coats has shown that Sus activity is reversible in vivo and can produce 37% of neo-synthesized sucrose in the seed coat cells (minimum value). It is concluded that Sus could play a central role in the control of sucrose concentration in the seed coat cells in response to the demand for sucrose in the embryo during the development of the seed.
Two cDNA clones (SAS1 and SAS2) encoding different isoforms of asparagine synthetase (AS; EC 6.3.5.4) were isolated. Their DNA sequences were determined and compared. The amino-terminal residues of the predicted SAS1 and SAS2 proteins were identical to those of the glutamine binding domain of AS from pea, asparagus, Arabidopsis and human, suggesting that SAS1 and SAS2 cDNAs encode the glutamine-dependent form of AS. The open reading frames of SAS1 and SAS2 encode a protein of 579 and 581 amino acids with predicted molecular weights of 65182 and 65608 Da respectively. Similarity of the deduced amino acid sequences of SAS1 and SAS2 with other known AS sequences were 92% and 93% for pea AS1; 91% and 96% for pea AS2; 88% and 91% for asparagus; 88% and 90.5% for Arabidopsis; 70.5% and 72.5% for E. coli asnB and 61% and 63% for man. A plasmid, pSAS2E, was constructed to express the soybean AS protein in Escherichia coli. Complementation experiments revealed that the soybean AS protein was functional in E. coli. Southern blot analysis indicated that the soybean AS is part of a small gene family. AS transcript was expressed in all tissues examined, but higher levels were seen in stem and root of light-grown tissue and leaves of dark-treated tissue.
Three cDNAs (ext3, ext127, and ext26), originally isolated by differential screening from a root-hair cDNA library of Vigna unguiculata, were found to encode extensin-like cell wall proteins. Transcripts homologous to these cDNAs were only detected in root hairs where mRNA levels decreased 1 day after inoculation with rhizobia. This coincided with the onset of root-hair deformation, the first morphological step in the Rhizobium-legume interaction. Decreases in transcript levels following inoculation with wild-type Rhizobium sp. NGR234 were more pronounced than with NGR delta nodABC, a mutant deficient in Nod-factor production. Inoculation with a rhizobial strain carrying a mutation in a gene encoding a transcriptional activator for nod genes (NGR delta nodD1) did not repress mRNA levels, indicating that a second nodulation signal may be present that is nodD dependent. Application of purified NodNGR factors only affected transcript levels of ext3. The genomic locus of the gene homologous to ext26 (Ext26G) was cloned. In the 5' flanking region, several potential TATA boxes and CAP signals were identified. Part of the promoter region shares homology with the Pisum sativum seed lectin promoter and the Nicotiana tabacum nitrate reductase promoter region. Nonetheless, the function of these homologous regions in gene regulation is unknown.
By examining the front of virus invasion in immature pea embryos infected with pea seed-borne mosaic virus (PSbMV), the selective control of different host genes has been observed. From our observations, the early responses to PSbMV replication can be grouped into three classes, inhibited host gene expression, induced host gene expression, and no effect on a normal host function. The expression of two heat-inducible genes encoding HSP70 and polyubiquitin was induced coordinately with the onset of virus replication and the down-regulation of two other genes encoding lipoxygenase and heat shock cognate protein. The down-regulation was part of a general suppression of host gene expression that may be achieved through the degradation of host transcripts. We discuss the possibilities of whether the induction of HSP70 and polyubiquitin genes represents a requirement for the respective protein products by the virus or is merely a consequence of the depletion of other host transcripts. The former is feasible, as the induction of both genes does result in increased HSP70 and ubiquitin accumulation. This also indicates that, in contrast to some animal virus infections, there is not a general inhibition of translation of host mRNAs following PSbMV infection. This selective control of host gene expression was observed in all cell types of the embryo and identifies mechanisms of cellular disruption that could act as triggers for symptom expression.
The expression of the genes encoding the four proteins (P, H, T, and L) of glycine decarboxylase, a multienzymatic complex involved in the mitochondrial step of the photorespiration pathway, was examined during pea (Pisum sativum) leaf development in comparison with ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase. Mitochondria from the primary leaf were isolated at several well-defined stages of development. Their capacity to oxidize glycine was negligible during the earlier stages but increased dramatically once the leaflet opened. This was correlated with the accumulation of the glycine decarboxylase complex (GDC) proteins, which was shown to occur in preexisting mitochondria, producing an increase in their density. The transcription of the GDC genes was coordinated and occurred early, with a peak at 7 d, a stage at which mitochondria are unable to oxidize glycine. This implies the existence of posttranscriptional control of gene expression. The comparison of the expression patterns of the genes encoding specific proteins of GDC with that of rbcS genes suggests a common regulation scheme that is related to light induction. However, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase is present in the chloroplast well before GDC fills the mitochondria, suggesting that the setup of photorespiration occurs in cells already engaged in active photosynthesis.
Ten cDNAs of genes that were induced by dehydration stress were cloned by differential screening from the highly drought-tolerant legume, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), a major crop in West Africa. The clones were collectively named CPRD (cowpea clones responsive to dehydration). Northern blot analysis revealed that nine of the CPRD genes were induced by dehydration stress, but the timing of induction of mRNA synthesis varied among the CPRD genes. We analyzed the effects of other environmental stresses on the expression of the CPRD8, CPRD14 and CPRD22 genes, and we found that these genes were strongly induced by high-salinity stress but not by cold or heat stress. Drought-stressed cowpea plants accumulated abscisic acid (ABA) to a level that was 160 times higher than that in unstressed plants. The CPRD8 and CPRD22 genes were induced to a significant extent by the application of exogenous ABA but the CPRD14 gene was not. These results indicate the existence of at least two signal-transduction pathways between the detection of water stress and the expression of CPRD genes in cowpea. Sequence analysis of CPRD8 and CPRD22 cDNAs revealed that they encoded putative proteins that were related to old yellow enzyme and group 2 LEA proteins, respectively. The protein encoded by CPRD14 exhibited sequence homology to dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) and vestitone reductase (VR). Old yellow enzyme, DFR and VR have not been identified as drought-inducible proteins in other plants, whereas LEA genes have been well characterized as drought-inducible genes. The various gene products might function to protect cells from environmental stress.
Previous work using microinjection into single cells of the tomato aurea mutant demonstrated that phytochrome A-dependent activation of rbcS and chs genes was mediated by calcium and cGMP, respectively. This work sought to identify promoter cis-elements that respond to these two small molecules. Box II and Unit I, derived from rbcS-3A and chs promoters, respectively, were previously shown to function as light-responsive cis-elements. Eleven copies of Box II and four copies of Unit I were linked 5' to the -90 and -46 35 S promoters, respectively, and, both constructs were fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. GUS activities were obtained upon coinjection of either Box II/-90GUS or Unit I/-46GUS with oat phytochrome A (phyA) and GTP gamma S, an activator of heterotrimeric G proteins. The activation of Box II/-90GUS by phyA was insensitive to the cGMP antagonist, Rp-cGMPS, although anthocyanin accumulation, but not chloroplast development, was totally blocked in the injected cells. Consistent with this result, calcium, but not cGMP, induced Box II/-90GUS activity. In contrast to Box II/-90GUS, phyA-dependent activation of Unit I/-46GUS activity was blocked by Rp-cGMPS. Moreover, cGMP, not calcium, induced Unit I/-46GUS activity. Control experiments showed that -90 GUS and -46 GUS were inactive in the presence of calcium and cGMP, respectively. These results provide evidence that Box II and Unit I are targets of the calcium and cGMP pathways, respectively. Interestingly, calcium activation of Box II/-90GUS was repressed by a high concentration of cGMP and cGMP induction of Unit I/-46GUS was blocked by a high concentration of calcium/CaM. Thus, these two small cis-elements can also serve as targets of the reciprocal control mechanisms that operate to regulate the activities of the two phyA signaling branches.
The pea genes PsENOD12A and PsENOD12B are expressed in the root hairs shortly after infection with the nitrogen-fixing bacterium Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae or after application of purified Nod factors. A 199 bp promoter fragment of the PsENOD12B gene contains sufficient information for Nod factor-induced tissue-specific expression. We have isolated a Vicia sativa cDNA encoding a 1641 amino acid protein, ENBP1, that interacts with the 199 bp ENOD12 promoter. Two different DNA-binding domains were identified in ENBP1. A domain containing six AT-hooks interacts specifically with an AT-rich sequence located between positions -95 and -77 in the PsENOD12B promoter. A second domain in ENBP1 is a cysteine-rich region that binds to the ENOD12 promoter in a sequence non-specific but metal-dependent way. ENBP1 is expressed in the same cell types as ENOD12. However, additional expression is observed in the nodule parenchyma and meristem. The presence of three small overlapping ORFs in the 5'-untranslated region of the ENBP1 cDNA indicates that ENBP1 expression might be regulated at the translational level. The interaction of ENBP1 with a conserved AT-rich element within the ENOD12 promoter and the presence of the ENBP1 transcript in cells expressing ENOD12 strongly suggest that ENBP1 is a transcription factor involved in the regulation of ENOD12. Finally, the C-terminal region of ENBP1 shows strong homology to a protein from rat that is specifically expressed in testis tissue.
A full-length cell-wall invertase cDNA obtained from pea (Pisum sativum L.) seedlings was cloned previously. The gene exhibits tissue-specific expression, and both its transcript and enzyme activities are abundant only in root tissues. Mechanical wounding dramatically induced the accumulation of the cell-wall invertase mRNA in detached or intact leaves, stems, and roots. In both detached and intact tissues mRNA started to accumulate 3 h after wounding and in detached tissues (except root tissues) was much stronger and lasted longer compared with that in intact pea plants. The induction of cell-wall invertase by wounding was not systemic, since no significant increase of transcript was found in the unwounded tissues remote from the site of wounding. Accumulation of this cell-wall invertase was induced by abscisic or jasmonic acid, and in situ hybridization studies show that this invertase mRNA is differentially localized in wounded plant tissue, being most abundant in the phloem. mRNA accumulation was limited mainly to the wounded area; no significant increase was detected in the unwounded portions of the wounded stem segments. The results suggest that, as part of the wounding response, this cell-wall invertase may provide energy through hexose availability to companion cells in the phloem.
The pea lectin (Psl) gene encodes an abundant seed protein. Its seed-specific expression pattern is conserved in transgenic tobacco plants. Progressive 5' promoter deletions resulted in a gradual decrease of transcriptional activity in tobacco seed. A fragment of 115 bp still conferred seed-specific expression albeit at a low level. This fragment contains a 22 bp element (W1), which has been demonstrated to be important for seed-specific expression when coupled as a trimer to a heterologous TATA box (de Pater et al., Plant Cell 5:877-886, 1993). Here we show that deletion of W1 in the natural promoter context resulted in a strongly decreased level of gene expression. A 4 bp mutation of W1 reduced the expression of truncated derivatives of the Psl promoter. A single copy of W1 coupled to the TATA box of the CaMV 35S promoter directed low gene expression in seeds and leaves. Multimerization enhanced the expression in seeds up to 100-fold, to levels found with the Psl promoter, whereas the expression level in leaves remained low. These results demonstrate that the W1 element is an essential control element in the Psl promoter. When taken out of its natural context and multimerized, it is sufficient for high expression in seeds.
To elucidate the role of glutamine synthetase (GS) in nitrogen assimilation in the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii we used maize GS1 (the cytosolic form) and GS2 (the chloroplastic form) cDNAs as hybridization probes to isolate C. reinhardtii cDNA clones. The amino acid sequences derived from the C. reinhardtii clones have extensive homology with GS enzymes from higher plants. A putative amino-terminal transit peptide encoded by the GS2 cDNA suggests that the protein localizes to the chloroplast. Genomic DNA blot analysis indicated that GS1 is encoded by a single gene, whereas two genomic fragments hybridized to the GS2 cDNA probe. All GS2 cDNA clones corresponded to only one of the two GS2 genomic sequences. We provide evidence that ammonium, nitrate, and light regulate GS transcript accumulation in green algae. Our results indicate that the level of GS1 transcripts is repressed by ammonium but induced by nitrate. The level of GS2 transcripts is not affected by ammonium or nitrate. Expression of both GS1 and GS2 genes is regulated by light, but perhaps through different mechanisms. Unlike in higher plants, no decreased level of GS2 transcripts was detected when cells were grown under conditions that repress photorespiration. Analysis of GS transcript levels in mutants with defects in the nitrate assimilation pathway show that nitrate assimilation and ammonium assimilation are regulated independently.
Coding sequences for two cysteine proteases were amplified from cDNA derived from pea nodule mRNA using primers based on conserved regions of plant cysteine proteases. One of the amplified cDNA sequences corresponded to a previously described cysteine protease gene, Cyp15a, expressed in pea shoots in response to dehydration (J.T. Jones and J.E. Mullet, Plant Mol. Biol. 28:1055-1065, 1995). Inside the pea root nodule, in situ hybridization revealed that this gene is expressed strongly in the apical region and more weakly in the uninfected cortex and in the central infected tissue where nitrogen fixation takes place. The complete sequence of the cDNA corresponding to the other gene, PsCyp1, was obtained. Expression of this gene, which was studied both on RNA blots and in situ, showed good correlation with the onset of nodule senescence. In situ hybridization studies revealed that PsCyp1 was expressed in senescent infected tissue at the base of the nodule. This signal was just detectable in normal symbiotically wild-type nodules but was much stronger in the early senescing nodules formed by a symbiotically defective mutant of Rhizobium leguminosarum.
Insertion of introns into cloned cDNA of two isolates of the plant potyvirus pea seedborne mosaic virus facilitated plasmid amplification in Escherichia coli. Multiple stop codons in the inserted introns interrupted the open reading frame of the virus cDNA, thereby terminating undesired translation of virus proteins in E. coli. Plasmids containing the full-length virus sequences, placed under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and the nopaline synthase termination signal, were stable and easy to amplify in E. coli if one or more introns were inserted into the virus sequence. These plasmids were infectious when inoculated mechanically onto Pisum sativum leaves. Examination of the cDNA-derived viruses confirmed that intron splicing of in vivo transcribed pre-mRNA had occurred as predicted, reestablishing the virus genome sequences. Symptom development and virus accumulation of the cDNA derived viruses and parental viruses were identical. It is proposed that intron insertion can be used to facilitate manipulation and amplification of cloned DNA fragments that are unstable in, or toxic to, E. coli. When transcribed in vivo in eukaryotic cells, the introns will be eliminated from the sequence and will not interfere with further analysis of protein expression or virus infection.
The effect of external CO2 concentration on the expression of carbonic anhydrase (CA) and ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) was examined in pea (Pisum sativum cv Little Marvel) leaves. Enzyme activities and their transcript levels were reduced in plants grown at 1000 [mu]L/L CO2 compared with plants grown in ambient air. Growth at 160 [mu]L/L CO2 also appeared to reduce steady-state transcript levels for rbcS, the gene encoding the small subunit of Rubisco, and for ca, the gene encoding CA; however, rbcS transcripts were reduced to a greater extent at this concentration. Rubisco activity was slightly lower in plants grown at 160 [mu]L/L CO2, and CA activity was significantly higher than that observed in air-grown plants. Transfer of plants from 1000 [mu]L/L to air levels of CO2 resulted in a rapid increase in both ca and rbcS transcript abundance in fully expanded leaves, followed by an increase in enzyme activity. Plants transferred from air to high-CO2 concentrations appeared to modulate transcript abundance and enzyme activity less quickly. Foliar carbohydrate levels were also examined in plants grown continuously at high and ambient CO2, and following changes in growth conditions that rapidly altered ca and rbcS transcript abundance and enzyme activities.
The coding regions for cowpea mosaic virus (CPMV) capsid proteins VP37 and VP23 were introduced separately into a transient plant expression vector containing an enhanced CaMV 358 promoter. Significant expression of either capsid protein was observed only in protoplasts transfected simultaneously with both constructs. Immunosorbent electron microscopy revealed the presence of virus-like particles in extracts of these protoplasts. An extract of protoplasts transfected with both constructs together with RNA-1 was able to initiate a new infection, showing that the two capsid proteins of CPMV can form functional particles containing RNA-1 and that the 60-kDa capsid precursor is not essential for this process.
Transcription initiation sites for the mitochondrial 18S rRNA genes in the dicot plants Arabidopsis thaliana, potato and pea were identified by a combination of in vitro capping, primer extension and S-1 analyses. These promoters contain a nonanucleotide motif and an AT-rich sequence similar to many mRNA and tRNA promoters in dicot mitochondria. In Arabidopsis and potato, active promoters are located within 120 nucleotides upstream of the 18S rRNA genes, as in Oenothera. The nucleotide sequence in the corresponding region in pea mitochondria is well conserved, but is not used as promoter in this plant. Instead a novel promoter sequence is used that lies several hundred nucleotides upstream. These results show that rRNAs can be transcribed from the same promoter types as mRNAs and tRNAs in plant mitochondria. However, the sequence features presently attributed to plant mitochondrial promoters-the conserved nonanucleotide and the upstream AT-rich box-do not allow to deduce the presence of an active promoter from genomic sequence data alone.
Plasmid pAL618 contains the genetic determinants for H2 uptake (hup) from Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae, including a cluster of 17 genes named hupSLCDEFGHIJK-hypABFCDE. A 1.7-kb segment of insert DNA located downstream of hypE has now been sequenced, thus completing the sequence of the 20441-bp insert DNA in plasmid pAL618. An open reading frame (designated hypX) encoding a protein with a calculated M(r) of 62300 that exhibits extensive sequence similarity with HoxX from Alcaligenes eutrophus (52% identity) and Bradyrhizobium japonicum (57% identity) was identified 10 bp downstream of hypE. Nodule bacteroids produced by hypX mutants in pea (Pisum sativum L.) plants grown at optimal nickel concentrations (100 microM) for hydrogenase expression, exhibited less than 5% of the wild-type levels of hydrogenase activity. These bacteroids contained wild-type levels of mRNA from hydrogenase structural genes (hupSL) but accumulated large amounts of the immature form of HupL protein. The Hup-deficient mutants were complemented for normal hydrogenase activity and nickel-dependent maturation of HupL by a hypX gene provided in trans. From expression analysis of hypX-lacZ fusion genes, it appears that hypX gene is transcribed from the FnrN-dependent hyp promoter, thus placing hypX in the hyp operon (hypBFCDEX). Comparisons of the HypX/HoxX sequences with those in databases provided unexpected insights into their function in hydrogenase synthesis. Similarities were restricted to two distinct regions in the HypX/HoxX sequences. Region I, corresponding to a sequence conserved in N10-formyltetrahydrofolate-dependent enzymes involved in transferring one-carbon units (C1), was located in the N-terminal half of the protein, whereas region II, corresponding to a sequence conserved in enzymes of the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase family, was located in the C-terminal half. These similarities strongly suggest that HypX/HoxX have dual functions: binding of the C1 donor N10-formyltetrahydrofolate and transfer of the C1 to an unknown substrate, and catalysis of a reaction involving polarization of the C = O bond of an X-CO-SCoA substrate. These results also suggest the involvement of a small organic molecule, possibly synthesized with the participation of an X-CO-SCoA precursor and of formyl groups, in the synthesis of the metal-containing active centre of hydrogenase.
The endogenous levels of the major, naturally occurring cytokinins in Pisum sativum ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase small subunit promoter-isopentenyl transferase gene (Pssu-ipt)-transformed tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) callus were quantified using electrospray-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry during a 6-week subcultivation period. An ipt gene was expressed under control of a tetracycline-inducible promoter for a more detailed study of cytokinin accumulation and metabolism. Activation of the ipt in both expression systems resulted in the production of mainly zeatin-type cytokinins. No accumulation of isopentenyladenine or isopentenyladenosine was observed. In Pssu-ipt-transformed calli, as well as in the tetracycline-inducible ipt leaves, metabolic inactivation occurred through O-glucoside conjugation. No significant elevation of cytokinin N-glucosides levels was observed. Side-chain reduction to dihydrozeatin-type cytokinins was observed in both systems. The levels of the endogenous cytokinins varied in time and were subject to homeostatic regulatory mechanisms. Feeding experiments of ipt transgenic callus with [3H]isopentenyladenine and [3H]isopentenyladenosine mainly led to labeled adenine-like compounds, which are degradation products from cytokininoxidase activity. Incorporation of radioactivity in zeatin riboside was observed, although to a much lesser extent.
In this paper we provide further evidence about the nature of a 77-kD starch synthase (SSII) that is both soluble and bound to the starch granules in developing pea (Pisum sativum L.) embryos. Mature SSII gives rise to starch synthase activity when expressed in a strain of Escherichia coli lacking glycogen synthase. In transgenic potatoes (Solanum tuberosum L.) expressing SSII, the protein is both soluble and bound to the starch granules. These results confirm that SSII is a starch synthase and indicate that partitioning between the soluble and granule-bound fraction of storage organs is an intrinsic property of the protein. A 60-kD isoform of starch synthase found both in the soluble and granule-bound fraction of the pea embryos is probably derived by the processing of SSII and is a different gene product from GBSSI, the exclusively granule-bound 59-kD isoform of starch synthase that is similar to starch synthases encoded by the waxy genes of cereals and the amf gene of potatoes. Consistent with this, expression in E. coli of an N-terminally truncated version of SSII gives rise to starch synthase activity.
The phytopathogenic fungus Nectria haematococca detoxifies pisatin, a phytoalexin produced by pea. Pisatin demethylating ability (a phenotype called Pda) is due to pisatin demethylase (pdm) and the genes encoding this enzyme are called PDA. Some isolates rapidly acquire a high to moderate rate of pisatin demethylating activity culture in response to pisatin (phenotypes PdaSH and PdaSM), while other isolates only slowly demethylate pisatin (phenotype PdaLL). Here we report that PDA-specific RNA levels increased more quickly in response to pisatin in isolates with PDA genes confering a PdaSH or PdaSM phenotype than in isolates with gene conferring a PdaLL phenotype. In addition, the pdm activity of transformants of N. haematococca containing chimeric constructs of PDASH and PDALL genes in which the 5' regulatory regions of these genes had been switched supports the conclusion that differential expression of PDA genes is responsible for the different Pda phenotypes detected in vitro. Northern analysis of pea tissue infected with isolates carrying PDASH or PDALL genes indicated that differential induction of these genes also occurred in planta. Only PDASH-specific RNA is readily detected in tissue infected with isolates containing PDASH and PDALL genes. Recently a pisatin biosynthetic gene, isoflavone reductase (IFR), has been identified. Using the polymerase chain reaction, qualitative detection of IFR and PDASH transcripts in infected tissue were made to assess the relative timing of these genes' expression. No transcripts were detected 6 h after inoculation, but transcripts of both genes were detected a 12 h, suggesting an interplay between the regulatory systems controlling the plants's defense response and the pathogen's counter response.
The mitochondrial ribosomal protein L2 gene (rpl2) is coded by two exons of 840 and 669 bp separated by an intron sequence of 1481 bp in the rice mitochondrial genome. The rpl2 gene is located three nucleotides upstream of the ribosomal protein S19 gene (rps19) and both genes are co-transcribed. cDNA sequence analysis identified splicing of the intron sequence from the rpl2 mRNA as well as RNA editing events. The deduced secondary structure of the rpl2 intron sequence shows the characteristic features of a group-II intron. A single RNA editing site is identified in rpl2 and six editing sites in rps19 transcripts. In addition, one editing site is observed in the 3 nucleotide intergenic region. Analysis of individual cDNA clones showed a different extent of RNA editing. The rice rpl2 intron is located at a different site and shows no significant nucleotide sequence similarity with the rpl2 intron of liverwort. However, 60% nucleotide sequence identity is observed between the rice rpl2 intron and the Oenothera nad5 intron in a 234 nucleotide region. The mitochondrial rpl2 sequence is absent from the pea mitochondrial genome and we consequently propose that the mitochondrial RPL2 protein is encoded by a nuclear gene in pea.
Chloroplasts contain homologues to the proteolytic and regulatory subunits of bacterial ATP-dependent Clp protease. We tested the effects of light and temperature on the expression of ClpC, the chloroplastic homologue of the regulatory subunit. ClpC mRNA was present in all tissues of pea seedlings, most abundantly in leaves. Higher levels of the message were found in green leaves than in etiolated ones. Exposure of etiolated seedlings to light resulted in further accumulation of the transcript. Similarly, ClpC protein level was lower in etiolated leaves, and increased upon exposure to light. Transferring seedlings from 25 degrees C to either 17 or 37 degrees C resulted in a decrease in both ClpC mRNA and protein, with the lower temperature being the most effective.
Cis-regulatory elements involved in the activation of the plant defense-related gene encoding chalcone synthase 1 (PsChs1) in pea (Pisum sativum L.) were examined by transient transfection, gel mobility shift assay and in vitro DNase I-footprinting analysis. Transient transfection assay revealed that a 61 bp DNA fragment spanning from -242 to -182 of PsChs1 was required for the maximal promoter activity and possibly involved in the enhancement of elicitor-mediated activation. Nuclear isolate from elicitor-treated pea epicotyl tissues contained some factor(s) that specifically bound to this DNA fragment to form a complex with low mobility (LMC, low mobility complex) in gel mobility shift assay. DNase I-footprinting analysis of LMC revealed that among three protected regions detected in a 61 bp DNA fragment, two regions contained identical AT-rich sequence, TAAAATACT. Site directed mutation in either or both identical sequences, TAAAATACT to TGGAATACT, resulted in the reduction or loss in the ability to form LMC. Detailed analysis of 61 bp DNA fragment demonstrated that the region from -242 to -226 containing promoter-distal TAAAATACT motif was imperative for the maximal elicitor-mediated activation of PsChs1.
Mutations were introduced into four genes encoded by RNA2 of pea early browning virus (PEBV) to determine their possible involvement in the transmission of this virus by nematodes. Deletion of 28 amino acids from the C-terminus of the coat protein abolished the formation of virus particles. Deletion of 15 amino acids at the C-terminus did not affect particle formation but did abolish nematode transmission. In contrast, deletion of 13 amino acids immediately preceding the 16 C-terminal residues did not affect particle formation and decreased rather than abolished nematode transmission. A deletion in the gene encoding a 29-kDa protein and a frameshift mutation in the gene encoding a 23-kDa protein both abolished transmission without affecting virus particle formation. Mutations in an ORF encoding a 9-kDa protein, which is located on the genome between the coat protein gene and 29K gene, gave conflicting results. Removal of the AUG initiation codon from the 9K ORF had no effect on transmission, whereas the introduction of a frameshift mutation, which would prematurely terminate expression of the putative 9-kDa protein, decreased the frequency of transmission. The results show that the coat protein and probably all three of the other RNA2-encoded proteins play a role in the transmission of PEBV by vector nematodes.
A 27-kD glycoprotein antigen recognized by monoclonal antibody MAC266 was purified from isolated symbiosomes derived from pea (Pisum sativum) root nodules containing Rhizobium. The N-terminal amino acid sequence was obtained, and the corresponding cDNA clone was isolated by a polymerase chain reaction-based strategy. The clone contained a single open reading frame, and the gene was termed PsNlec1. Phylogenetic analysis of 31 legume sequences showed that the PsNlec1 protein is related to the legume lectin family but belongs to a subgroup that is very different from pea seed lectin. Expression of the PsNlec1 transcript was much stronger in nodules than in other parts of the plant. It was found in both infected and uninfected cells in the central tissue of the nodule and in the stele of the root near the attachment point of the nodule. When uninfected pea seedlings were grown on medium containing nitrate, weak transcription of PsNlec1 was observed in the root system. The identification of PsNlec1 inside the symbiosome is consistent with the observation that legume lectins are generally vacuolar proteins that may serve as transient storage components.
The plant growth hormone auxin typified by indoleacetic acid (IAA) transcriptionally activates early genes in pea, PS-IAA4/5 and PS-IAA6, that are members of a multigene family encoding short-lived nuclear proteins. To gain first insight into the biological role of PS-IAA4/5 and PS-IAA6, promoter-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene fusions were constructed and their expression during early development of transgenic tobacco seedlings was examined. The comparative analysis reveals spatial and temporal expression patterns of both genes that correlate with cells, tissues, and developmental processes known to be affected by auxin. GUS activity in seedlings of both transgenic lines is located in the root meristem, sites of lateral root initiation and in hypocotyls undergoing rapid elongation. In addition, mutually exclusive cell-specific expression is evident. For instance, PS-IAA4/5-GUS but not PS-IAA6-GUS is expressed in root vascular tissue and in guard cells, whereas only PS-IAA6-GUS activity is detectable in glandular trichomes and redistributes to the elongating side of the hypocotyl upon gravitropic stimulation. Expression of PS-IAA4/5 and PS-IAA6 in elongating, dividing, and differentiating cell types indicates multiple functions during development. The common and yet distinct activity patterns of both genes suggest a combinatorial code of spatio-temporal co-expression of the various PS-IAA4/5-like gene family members in plant development that may mediate cell-specific responses to auxin.
Pisatin is a fungistatic isoflavonoid produced by garden pea. Field isolates of the ascomycete Nectria haematococca mating population VI (anamorph: Fusarium solani) that are highly virulent on pea have been found to possess the PDA1 gene encoding a pisatin detoxifying activity. Expression of PDA1 is specifically and highly induced by exposure of mycelia to pisatin. A pisatin-responsive DNA-binding activity has previously been identified with properties suggestive of a transcriptional regulator of PDA1. In this study, the sequence determinants for binding this pisatin-responsive factor (PRF) were localized to a 14-bp region through analysis of sequence alterations that reduced PRF binding. Using a homologous in vitro transcription system, a transcriptional activator of PDA1 was shown to be present in mycelial extracts that shared the sequence specificity characteristic of the PRF, indicating function of the DNA-binding protein in transcriptional control. A 70-kDa protein was shown to be a DNA-binding component of PRF by three independent assays for DNA-binding proteins: Southwestern (DNA-protein) blotting, UV-crosslinking, and binding to immobilized DNA. These results characterize a transcriptional activator acting on the PDA1 promoter that is responsive to a host-specific compound and provide insight into the regulation of fungal genes in response to plant flavonoids.
Electroporation-mediated gene transfer into intact plant tissues was demonstrated in pea, cowpea, lentil, and soybean plants. Transient expression of a chimeric gus reporter gene was used to monitor the uptake and expression of the introduced DNA in electroporated nodal axillary buds in vivo. The branches that grew out of the nodal meristems were chimeric and expressed the introduced gene up to 20 d after electroporation. Transgenic R1 pea, lentil, and cowpea plants were recovered from seeds originating on these chimeric branches as shown by Southern blot hybridization and GUS expression. Transgenic R2 soybean and lentil plants were also obtained. Segregation ratios in these populations showed a strong bias against transgene presence or expression.
The early nodulin gene, PsENOD7, is expressed in pea root nodules induced by Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae, but not in other plant organs. In situ hybridization showed that this gene is transcribed during nodule maturation in the infected cells of the proximal part of the prefixation zone II. At the transition of zone II into interzone II-III, the level of PsENOD7 mRNA drops markedly. PsENOD7 has no significant homology to other genes. RFLP mapping studies have shown that PsENOD7 is located in linkage group I between the leghaemoglobin genes and sym2.
The nonallelic ramosus mutations rms3-2 and rms4 of pea (Pisum sativum L.) cause extensive release of vegetative axillary buds and lateral growth in comparison with wild-type (cv Torsdag) plants, in which axillary buds are not normally released under the conditions utilized. Grafting studies showed that the expression of the rms4 mutation in the shoot is independent of the genotype of the root-stock. In contrast, the length of the branches at certain nodes of rms3-2 plants was reduced by grafting to wild-type stocks, indicating that the wild-type Rms3 gene may control the level of a mobile substance produced in the root. This substance also appears to be produced in the shoot because Rms3 shoots did not branch when grafted to mutant rms3-2 rootstocks. However, the end product of the Rms3 gene appears to differ from that of the Rms2 gene (C.A. Beveridge, J.J. Ross, and I.C. Murfet [1994] Plant Physiol 104: 953-959) because reciprocal grafts between rms3-2 and rms2 seedlings produced mature shoots with apical dominance similar to that of rms3-2 and rms2 shoots grafted to wild-type stocks. Indole-3-acetic acid levels were not reduced in apical or nodal portions of rms4 plants and were actually elevated (up to 2-fold) in rms3-2 plants. It is suggested that further studies with these branching mutants may enable significant progress in understanding the normal control of apical dominance and the related communication between the root and shoot.
Cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (P450s) mediate a wide range of oxidative reactions involved in the biosynthesis of plant secondary metabolites including phenylpropanoids and phytoalexins. To investigate the regulation of these P450s in the phenylpropanoid biosynthetic pathway of pea (Pisum sativum), partial cDNAs representing four distinct P450s expressed in pea seedlings were cloned using a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction strategy. One of the corresponding full-length cDNA clones, designated CYP73A9, encodes pea trans-cinnamic acid 4-hydroxylase, which catalyzes the second core reaction in the phenylpropanoid pathway. As expected from its central role in the production of lignin precursors and defense compounds, northern analysis of poly(A)+ mRNA demonstrates that transcripts encoding CYP73A9 are induced appreciably within 3 h after wounding. A second cDNA clone, designated CYP82, encodes a novel P450, whose transcripts are also induced in response to wounding at approximately the same time as CYP73A9 transcripts. Despite the multitude of environmental stimuli known to induce expression of phenylpropanoid pathway enzymes, genomic DNA Southern analysis indicates that each of these P450s is encoded by a low copy number (possibly a single copy) gene family.
Trg-31 is a pea gene which is rapidly induced in response to dehydration stress. Trg-31 belongs to a family of membrane intrinsic proteins that play a role in facilitating inter-membrane transport. In order to understand the mechanism of regulation of Trg-31 expression we defined the cis-acting elements of the Trg-31 promoter and the trans-acting factors that interact with them. Deletion analysis of the Trg-31 promoter in transgenic tobacco plants indicated the presence of two positive regulatory region: (1) between the -1412 to -1066 nucleotides and (2) between the -559 to -391 nucleotides, with respect to the transcription initiation site. A negative regulatory element was also identified between -1066 and -559 nucleotides. All three regulatory regions specifically regulated Trg-31 induction in leaf tissue and had little or no effect on Trg-31 induction in root tissue. Gel-mobility shift assays indicated the presence of leaf nuclear proteins that interacted with the -1412 to -1066 and -1066 to -559 regions and an 'ABRE-like' sequence at -74 in the 5' promoter region of Trg-31.
The C2H2 TFIIIA/Krüppel class of zinc finger proteins are an important group of regulatory nucleic acid binding factors and have been extensively studied in humans, Drosophila and yeast. We have employed 3' RACE PCR, using a highly degenerate oligonucleotide primer, for the facile isolation of a C2H2 zinc finger protein cDNA (Pszf1) from pea petals. The Pszf1 cDNA open reading frame potentially encodes a protein with two widely separated zinc fingers similar to zinc finger proteins from petunia and wheat. This class of two-fingered zinc finger proteins, possessing a wide and variable linker sequence, appears to be unique to plants. Three regions outside the zinc finger domains are also conserved between the members of the plant zinc finger protein family and one of these regions is a candidate nuclear localisation signal. The Pszf1 amino acid sequence is most similar to that of the petunia Epf1 protein, they possess an interfinger linker sequence of approximately the same length and they have a similar expression pattern with maximal transcript accumulation in mature petals, suggesting that Pszf1 may be the pea homologue of the petunia Epf1 zinc finger gene.
Using a novel cyanelle isolation procedure we showed that pre-ferredoxin-NADP+-oxidoreductase (pre-FNR) from C. paradoxa is translocated in vitro across the peptidoglycan-containing cyanelle envelope. Efficient import was also observed in a heterologous system with pea chloroplasts as the recipient organelles. These results support the conclusion derived from comparative analysis of plastid genome organization, that all plastids originate from a common semi-autonomous endosymbiotic ancestor.
A synthetic gene encoding the entire mature H protein of the glycine decarboxylase complex from pea (Pisum sativum L.) was constructed and expressed in Escherichia coli. The recombinant H protein, which after the induction period constituted more than half of the E. coli protein, was found in a soluble form. Activity measurements and mass-spectrometry analysis of the purified protein showed that, in the absence or presence of 5[3-(1,2)-dithiolanyl]pentanoic acid (lipoic acid) in the culture medium, recombinant H protein could be produced as the unlipoylated apoform or as the lipoylated form, respectively. Addition of chloramphenicol to the culture medium after induction increased the proportion of lipoylated H protein. High rates of lipoylation of the H apoprotein were measured in vivo and in vitro, revealing that the recombinant pea H protein was an excellent substrate for the E. coli lipoyl-ligase. The three-dimensional structure of the recombinant H apoprotein was determined at a 0.25-nm resolution. It was almost identical to the structure of the native pea leaf enzyme, which indicates that the recombinant protein folds properly in E. coli and that the lipoyl-ligase recognizes a three-dimensional structure in order to add lipoic acid to its specific lysine residue. It is postulated that the high level of expression and lipoylation of recombinant H protein may be due to the protein retaining the structure of the original enzyme.
Two cDNA clones coding for S-adenosyl-L-methionine synthase (SAMs, EC 2.5.1.6) have been isolated from a cDNA library of gibberellic acid-treated unpollinated pea ovaries. Both cDNAs were sequenced showing a high degree of identity but coding for different SAMs polypeptides. The presence of two SAMs genes in pea was further confirmed by Southern analysis. Expression of the SAMs genes in the pea plant was found at different levels in vegetative and reproductive tissues. We characterized the expression levels of SAMs genes during the development or senescence of pea ovaries. Northern analysis showed that transcription of SAMs genes in parthenocarpic fruits was upregulated by auxins in the same manner as in fruits from pollinated ovaries. In both pollinated and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid-treated ovaries, and benzyladenine, although able to induce parthenocarpic development, did not affect SAMs mRNA levels. These data are consistent with an active participation of auxins in the upregulation of SAMs during fruit setting in pea and suggest that, at the molecular level, parthenocarpic development of pea ovaries is different for gibberellin- and cytokinin-treated ovaries than for auxin-induced parthenocarpic biosynthesis since treatment of the ovaries with aminoethoxyvinylglycine resulted in a delay of senescence and prevention of SAMs mRNA accumulation. A possible mechanism for hormonal regulation of SAMs during ovary development is discussed.
To understand the root, shoot, and Fe-nutritional factors that regulate root Fe-acquisition processes in dicotyledonous plants, Fe(III) reduction and net proton efflux were quantified in root systems of an Fe-hyperaccumulating mutant (dgl) and a parental (cv Dippes Gelbe Viktoria [DGV]) genotype of pea (Pisum sativum). Plants were grown with (+Fe treated) or without (-Fe treated) added Fe(III)-N,N'-ethylenebis[2-(2-hydroxyphenyl)-glycine] (2 [mu]M); root Fe(III) reduction was measured in solutions containing growth nutrients, 0.1 mM Fe(III)-ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, and 0.1 mM Na2-bathophenanthrolinedisulfonic acid. Daily measurements of Fe(III) reduction (d 10-20) revealed initially low rates in +Fe-treated and -Fe-treated dgl, followed by a nearly 5-fold stimulation in rates by d 15 for both growth types. In DGV, root Fe(III) reductase activity increased only minimally by d 20 in +Fe-treated plants and about 3-fold in -Fe-treated plants, beginning on d 15. Net proton efflux was enhanced in roots of -Fe-treated DGV and both dgl growth types, relative to +Fe-treated DGV. In dgl, the enhanced proton efflux occurred prior to the increase in root Fe(III) reductase activity. Reductase studies using plants with reciprocal shoot:root grafts demonstrated that shoot expression of the dgl gene leads to the generation of a transmissible signal that enhances Fe(III) reductase activity in roots. The dgl gene product may alter or interfere with a normal component of a signal transduction mechanism regulating Fe homeostasis in plants.
A cDNA encoding the chloroplast/mitochondrial form of glutathione reductase (GR; EC 1.6.4.2) from pea (Pisum sativum L.) was used to map a single GR locus, named GOR1. In two domesticated genotypes of pea (cv. Birte and JI 399) it is likely that the GOR1 locus contains a single gene. However, in a semi-domesticated land race of pea (JI 281) two distinct but closely related sets of GR gene sequences were detected at the GOR1 locus. The extra GR sequences in JI 281 represent either a second intact gene or a partial or pseudogene copy. A GR gene was cloned from cv. Birte, sequenced and its structure analysed. No feature of the transcription or structure of the gene suggested a mechanism for generating any more than one form of GR. From these data plus previously published biochemical evidence we suggest that a second, distinct gene encoding for the cytosolic form of GR should be present in peas. The GOR1-encoded GR mRNA can be detected in all main organs of the plant and no alternative spliced species was present which could perhaps account for the generation of multiple isoforms of GR. The mismatch between the number of charge-separable isoforms in pea and the proposed number of genes suggests that different GR isoforms arise by some form of post-translational modification.
Treatment of tall and dwarf (3 beta-hydroxylase impaired) genotypes of pea (Pisum sativum L.) with the synthetic, highly active gibberellin (GA), 2,2-dimethyl GA4, reduced the shoot contents of C19-GAs, including GA1, and increased the concentration of the C20-GA, GA19. In shoots of the slender (la crys) mutant, the content of C19-GAs was lower and GA19 content was higher than in those of the tall line. Metabolism of GA19 and GA20 in leaves of a severe (na) GA-deficient dwarf mutant was reduced by GA treatment. The results suggest feed-back regulation of the 20-oxidation and 3 beta-hydroxylation reactions. Feed-back regulation of GA 20-oxidation was studied further using a cloned GA 20-oxidase cDNA from pea. The cDNA, Ps074, was isolated using polymerase chain reaction with degenerate oligonucleotide primers based on pumpkin and Arabidopsis 20-oxidase sequences. After expression of this cDNA clone in Escherichia coli, the product oxidized GA12 to GA15, GA24 and the C19-GA, GA9, which was the major product. The 13-hydroxylated substrate GA53 was similarly oxidized, but less effectively than GA12, giving mainly GA44 with low yields of GA19 and GA20. Ps074 hybridized to polyadenylated RNA from expanding shoots of pea. Amounts of this transcript were less in the slender genotype than in the tall line and were reduced in GA-deficient genotypes by treatment with GA3, suggesting that there is feed-back regulation of GA 20-oxidase gene expression.
A cDNA isolated from pea petals exhibits extensive similarity to pollen allergen genes, a cytokinin-regulated cDNA from soybean suspension cultures, a partial cDNA preferentially expressed in tobacco genetic tumours, four Arabidopsis expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and fifteen rice ESTs. This diverse family of pollen-allergen-likes genes may have a common ancestor or at least share common functional domains. Possession of a putative signal peptide and a presumed extracellular location is a common aspect of this family of sequences.
A CDNA encoding a 47 kDa nucleoside triphosphatase (NTPase) that is associated with the chromatin of pea nuclei has been cloned and sequenced. The translated sequence of the cDNA includes several domains predicted by known biochemical properties of the enzyme, including five motifs characteristic of the ATP-binding domain of many proteins, several potential casein kinase II phosphorylation sites, a helix-turn-helix region characteristic of DNA-binding proteins, and a potential calmodulin-binding domain. The deduced primary structure also includes an N-terminal sequence that is a predicted signal peptide and an internal sequence that could serve as a bipartite-type nuclear localization signal. Both in situ immunocytochemistry of pea plumules and immunoblots of purified cell fractions indicate that most of the immunodetectable NTPase is within the nucleus, a compartment proteins typically reach through nuclear pores rather than through the endoplasmic reticulum pathway. The translated sequence has some similarity to that of human lamin C, but not high enough to account for the earlier observation that IgG against human lamin C binds to the NTPase in immunoblots. Northern blot analysis shows that the NTPase MRNA is strongly expressed in etiolated plumules, but only poorly or not at all in the leaf and stem tissues of light-grown plants. Accumulation of NTPase mRNA in etiolated seedlings is stimulated by brief treatments with both red and far-red light, as is characteristic of very low-fluence phytochrome responses. Southern blotting with pea genomic DNA indicates the NTPase is likely to be encoded by a single gene.
A gene (EGL1) encoding an endo-beta-1,4-D-glucanase (EGase, EC 3.2.1.4) of pea (Pisum sativum) has been cloned and characterized. EGL1 encodes a 486-amino acid polypeptide, including a 24-mer putative signal peptide. The mature protein has a calculated molecular mass of 51.3 kD and an isoelectric point of 9.1. This pea EGase shares significant similarity with EGases from other plant species, but it appears to be distinct from the EGases associated with abscission and fruit ripening. Although EGL1 transcripts are detected in all parts of pea plants, they are relatively abundant in flowers and young pods undergoing rapid growth and most abundant in elongating epicotyls of etiolated seedlings. When epicotyl segments (6 mm long, 4 mm from the apical hook) are incubated in a 5 microM solution of the synthetic auxin analog 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, the concentration of EGL1 mRNA increases about 10-fold when the segments elongate most rapidly.
Differential hybridization of a cDNA library constructed with poly(A)+ mRNA from 24 h starved maize (Zea mays L.) root tips, resulted in the isolation of a cDNA (called pZSS1) that was highly induced during glucose deprivation. The nucleotide sequence analysis of the full-length cDNA allowed its identification by comparison with sequence data bases. The 586 amino acid sequence encoded by pZSS1 was shown to be about 60% identical to sequences of asparagine synthetases (EC 6.3.5.4) from Asparagus officinalis, Pisum sativum, Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica oleracea. Southern blot analysis of maize genomic DNA showed that asparagine synthetase may be encoded by at least two genes. The use of a specific probe for the 3' untranslated region of pZSS1 in Northern blot experiments, revealed that the isolated AS gene was essentially expressed in roots of maize seedlings. Time course analysis revealed that maximal expression of the gene corresponding to pZSS1 occurs between 18 and 24 h after the onset of the starvation treatment. The steady-state levels of transcripts in maize root tips were found to change under various incubation conditions. Exogenous supply of metabolizable sugars downregulated the gene expression, while carbohydrate deprivation or feeding with non-metabolizable sugars resulted in the induction of gene expression. In addition to carbohydrate deprivation, the effects of nitrogen metabolite supply and stress conditions indicate that gene expression might be under metabolic control in maize root tips. The intracellular nitrogen to carbon ratio might be an important factor for the regulation of asparagine synthetase gene expression.
Glutathione reductase (GR; EC 1.6.4.2) and superoxide dismutase (SOD; EC 1.15.1.1) are two well-known enzymes involved in the scavenging of reactive oxygen intermediates. However, little is known about the regulation of Gor and Sod genes in plant cells. To obtain information about hypothetical redox regulatory mechanisms controlling Gor and Sod gene expression we artificially enhanced the levels of reduced and oxidized forms of glutathione (GSH and GSSG) in Pinus sylvestris L. needles. Scots pine shoots were placed for 12 h in beakers containing 5 mM GSH, 5 mM GSSG or water. Increased levels of both GSSG and GSH were observed in the GSSG-treated needles after 3 h. In contrast, only the GSH level was increased by the GSH treatment. Thus, the GSH/GSSG ratio increased up to 15-fold during the GSH treatment and decreased approximately two-fold during the GSSG treatment. The GR activity was significantly higher (60%) when GSSG was applied, without any apparent change in the amount and isoform population of GR or accumulation of Gor gene transcripts. This indicates that the GR activity increased per se in the GSSG treatment. The level of cytosolic CuZn-Sod transcripts was decreased significantly by the GSH treatment without any change in enzyme activity. The chloroplastic CuZn-Sod gene generally showed a more stable transcript level in the different treatments. However, a similarity between the cytosolic and chloroplastic levels of CuZn-Sod transcripts could be observed in different treatments. This suggests that the redox state of glutathione plays an important role in the in vivo regulation of CuZn-Sod gene expression in plants.
A reliable Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation method has been developed for peas (Pisum sativum) using immature cotyledons as the explant source. Transgenic plants were recovered from the four cultivars tested: Bolero, Trounce, Bohatyr and Huka. The method takes approximately 7 months from explant to seed-bearing primary regenerant. The binary vector used carried genes for kanamycin and phosphinothricin resistance. Transformed pea plants were selected on 10 mg/l phosphinothricin. The nptII and bar genes were shown to be stably inherited through the first sexual generation of transformed plants. Expression of the phosphinothricin-resistance gene in the transformed plants was demonstrated using the 'Buster' (='Basta') leaf-paint test and the phosphinothricin acetyl transferase enzyme assay.
Here, we describe two nearly identical expressed genes for cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS3A and GS3B) in Pisum sativum L. RFLP mapping data indicates that the GS3A and GS3B genes are separate loci located on different chromosomes. DNA sequencing of the GS3A and GS3B genes revealed that the coding regions are 99% identical with only simple nucleotide substitutions resulting in three amino acid differences. Surprisingly, the non-coding regions (5' non-coding leader, the 11 introns, and 3' non-coding tail) all showed a high degree of identity (96%). In these non-coding regions, 25% of the observed differences between the GS3A and GS3B genes were deletions or duplications. The single difference in the 3' non-coding regions of the GS3A and GS3B genes was a 25 bp duplication of an AU-rich element in the GS3B gene. As the GS3B mRNA accumulates to lower levels than the GS3A gene, we tested whether this sequence which resembles an mRNA instability determinant functioned as such in the context of the GS mRNA. Using the GS3B 3' tail as part of a chimeric gene in transgenic plants, we showed that this AU-rich sequence has little effect on transgene mRNA levels. To determine whether the GS3A/GS3B genes represent a recent duplication, we examined GS3-like genes in genomic DNA of ancient relatives of P. sativum. We observed that several members of the Viceae each contain two genomic DNA fragments homologous to the GS3B gene, suggesting that this is an ancient duplication event. Gene conversion has been invoked as a possible mechanism for maintaining the high level of nucleotide similarity found between GS3A and GS3B genes. Possible evolutionary reasons for the maintenance of these 'twin' GS genes in pea, and the general duplication of genes for cytosolic GS in all plant species are discussed.
A 3 h treatment at 40 degrees C of pea (Pisum sativum var. Douce Provence) plants induces production and accumulation of a small heat-shock protein of 22 kDa apparent molecular mass, designated HSP22, in the matrix compartment of mitochondria [Lenne and Douce (1994) Plant Physiol. 105, 1255-1261]. We show here that the HSP22 precursor (i.e. the mature protein plus the transit peptide) has an apparent molecular mass of 26 kDa after in vitro translation of mRNA extracted from heat-stressed pea plants and immunodetection. We have isolated, cloned and sequenced the full-length cDNA encoding the precursor of the mitochondrial HSP22. An analysis of the amino acid sequence of the mitochondrial HSP22 reveals that this protein is a representative member of the low-molecular-mass heat shock protein (HSP) superfamily, exhibiting the specific consensus regions that are typical of the small HSPs. Most importantly, comparison of the mitochondrial HSP22 sequence with that of chloroplast small HSPs indicates that HSP22 does not contain the typical chloroplast consensus region III. We have also analysed the kinetics of HSP22 induction, and report results on the temporal expression of HSP22 at the transcriptional level. HSP22 mRNA was detected as soon as 10 min after the temperature was raised to a high temperature of 40 degrees C. Then the amount of HSP22 mRNA declined considerably even though pea plants were still submitted to the heat treatment. These results are discussed in light of the translation data previously published [Lenne and Douce (1994) Plant Physiol. 105, 1255-1261], particularly concerning the physiological behaviour of mitochondria when plants are heat-stressed. Furthermore, we have studied the dependence of HSP22 accumulation with temperature and demonstrate that the pea mitochondrial heat-shock response is only developed under extreme environmental growth conditions.
The transcription of two genes, PS-IAA4/5 and PS-IAA6, in pea is induced by indoleacetic acid (IAA) and protein synthesis inhibitors such as cycloheximide (CHX) and anisomycin (ANI). Induction by IAA is rapid, taking 5 and 7.5 minutes for PS-IAA4/5 and PS-IAA6, respectively, and is independent of IAA concentration and whether IAA has a free or esterified carboxyl group (ethyl-IAA). The rate of mRNA accumulation, however, is dependent on hormone concentration, and is greater with IAA than with ethyl-IAA. The turnover rates (t1/2) of the PS-IAA4/5 and PS-IAA6 mRNAs are 60 and 75 minutes, respectively, and are not affected by IAA. CHX or ANI induce the transcription of PS-IAA4/5 and PS-IAA6 more slowly than IAA (5 to 10 minutes for PS-IAA4/5 and 20 minutes for PS-IAA6). While protein synthesis inhibitors stabilize both mRNAs, the rapidity of induction by CHX and ANI cannot be accounted for solely by mRNA stabilization. The relationship between mRNA induction and protein synthesis inhibition does not obey Michaelis-Menten kinetics, but rather is best described by a hyperbolic curve, suggesting the release of transcriptional repression by the inhibition of protein synthesis. RNA expression experiments with transgenic tobacco seedlings or with transfected pea protoplasts using PS-IAA4/5 promoter GUS or CAT fusions reveal that CHX transcriptionally activates PS-IAA4/5 gene expression. Thus, protein synthesis inhibitors have a dual effect on PS-IAA4/5 and PS-IAA6. (1) They stabilize both mRNAs (possibly by a translational arrest-linked process or by preventing the synthesis of a labile nuclease(s)). (2) They activate transcription (possibly by preventing the synthesis or function of a repressor).
alpha-L-Fucosidase is a cell wall protein purified from pea (Pisum sativum) epicotyls. The alpha-L-fucosidase hydrolyzes terminal fucosyl residues from oligosaccharides of plant cell wall xyloglucan. alpha-L-Fucosidase may be an important factor in plant growth regulation, as it inactivates fucose-containing xyloglucan oligosaccharides that inhibit growth of pea stem segments. The amino acid sequences of the NH2-terminal region and one internal peptide were used to design redundant oligonucleotides that were utilized as primers in a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with cDNA, generated from pea mRNA, as the template. A specific PCR amplification product containing 357 base pairs was isolated, cloned, and sequenced. The deduced amino acid sequence included the two peptides used to design the primers for PCR plus two other peptides obtained by proteinase digestion of alpha-L-fucosidase. No sequence homology to other alpha-L-fucosidases was apparent, although the NH2-terminal region is strongly homologous to Kunitz-type trypsin inhibitors. cDNA and genomic copies were isolated and sequenced. In pea, the gene is present in two or three copies. Its mRNA is present in roots, leaves, and elongating shoots. The spatial pattern of expression of the alpha-L-fucosidase was determined by in situ hybridization.
Pea (Pisum sativum L.) bacteroids produced by Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae UPM791 synthesize a membrane-bound (NiFe) hydrogenase which oxidizes H2 arising from the nitrogen fixation process in root nodules. Synthesis of the active enzyme requires the products of the structural genes hupSL and an array of accessory proteins from at least 15 additional genes, including the gene cluster hypABFCDE, likely involved in nickel metabolism. Unlike the hupSL genes, which are expressed only in symbiosis, the hypBFCDE operon was also activated in vegetative cells in response to low pO2 in the culture medium. In microaerobic cells and in bacteroids, transcription of the hypBFCDE operon occurred from a promoter, P5b, with a transcription initiation site located 190 bp upstream of the ATG start codon of hypB, within the coding sequence of hypA. Transcription start site 5b was preceded by an Fnr box (anaerobox), 5'-TTGAgccatgTCAA-3', centered at position -39.5. Expression of the P5b promoter in the heterologous Rhizobium meliloti bacterial host was dependent on the presence of an active fixK gene. A 2.6-kb EcoRI fragment was isolated from an R. leguminosarum bv. viciae UPM791 gene bank by complementing an R. meliloti FixK- mutant. Sequencing of this DNA fragment identified an fnrN gene, and cassette insertion mutagenesis demonstrated that R. leguminosarum bv. viciae fnrN is able to replace the R. meliloti fixK gene for activation of both the R. leguminosarum bv. viciae hypBFCDE operon and the R. meliloti fix genes. However, bacteroids from a genomic FnrN- mutant of R. leguminosarum bv. viciae exhibited wild-type levels of hydrogenase activity. Microaerobic expression of P(5b) was reduced to ca. 50% of the wild-type level in the FnrN(-) mutant. These results indicate that hyp gene expression escapes mutagenesis of the fnrN gene and suggest the existence of a second fnr-like gene in R. leguminosarum by. viciae. Southern blot analysis with an fnrN internal probe revealed the presence of a second genomic region with homology to fnrN.
Glutathione reductase (GR) was purified from the cyanobacterium Anabaena PCC 7120. A 3-kilobase genomic DNA fragment containing the coding sequence for the GR gene (gor) was identified and cloned by polymerase chain reaction based on sequences of selected peptides isolated from proteolyzed GR. The coding sequence encompassing 458 amino acid residues, as well as 360 base pairs of the 5'-flanking region and 430 base pairs of the 3'-flanking region, were determined. Genomic Southern analysis indicates that gor is a single-copy gene. A gor antisense RNA probe hybridized with a 1.4-kilobase transcript, suggesting that the gene is not part of an operon including additional genes. The deduced GR amino acid sequence shows 41 to 48% identity with those of human, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, pea, and Arabidopsis thaliana GR. The coding sequence of GR was overexpressed in a GR-deficient E. coli strain, SG5, and the recombinant protein was purified. Anabaena GR is NADPH-linked, but a Lys residue replaces an Arg residue involved in NADPH binding in GR from other species. In addition, Anabaena GR carries the GXGXXG "fingerprint" motif which otherwise characterizes NAD(H)-dependent enzymes. These differences may contribute to the lack of affinity for 2',5'-ADP-Sepharose 4B of Anabaena GR. Three E. coli-type promoter sequences and a BifA/NtcA binding motif were found upstream of the open reading frame. The middle and the proximal promoters were shown to be active. However, the use of the middle promoter was dependent on the nitrogen source in the culture medium. Both GR activity and GR protein concentration increased in ammonium grown cultures in which both the middle and proximal promoters were used for transcriptional initiation. The BifA/NtcA-binding site overlaps the middle promoter sequence and may thus be involved in regulation of differential transcription.
To elucidate the mechanism involved in the transcription initiation process in mitochondria of dicotyledonous plants, an in vitro transcription system was established for pea (Pisum sativum L.). The partially purified mitochondrial protein extract initiates transcription on homologous pea templates as well as on heterologous mitochondrial DNA from other dicot plant species. In vitro transcription begins within the nonanucleotide 5'-(-7)CRTAAGAGA(+2)-3' (transcription start site is underlined) conserved at most of the identified transcription initiation sites in dicot plant mitochondria. The in vitro initiation at promoters of protein as well as of tRNA coding genes indicates a common mode of transcription initiation for different types of RNA. The competent recognition of different heterologous templates supports a general functional role of the conserved nonanucleotide within mitochondrial promoters of dicotyledonous plants. Initial studies of the promoter structure by deletion analysis in the 5' region of the pea atp9 promoter show that in addition to the conserved nonanucleotide, which is essential for transcription initiation in vitro, sequences up to 25 nucleotides upstream of the transcription start site are necessary for an efficient initiation event.
Plant lipoxygenases are thought to be involved in the biosynthesis of lipid-derived signaling molecules. The potential involvement of a specific Arabidopsis thaliana lipoxygenase isozyme, LOX2, in the biosynthesis of the plant growth regulators jasmonic acid (JA) and abscisic acid was investigated. Our characterization of LOX2 indicates that the protein is targeted to chloroplasts. The physiological role of this chloroplast lipoxygenase was analyzed in transgenic plants where cosuppression reduced LOX2 accumulation. The reduction in LOX2 levels caused no obvious changes in plant growth or in the accumulation of abscisic acid. However, the wound-induced accumulation of JA observed in control plants was absent in leaves of transgenic plants that lacked LOX2. Thus, LOX2 is required for the wound-induced synthesis of the plant growth regulator JA in leaves. We also examined the expression of a wound- and JA-inducible Arabidopsis gene, vsp, in transgenic and control plants. Leaves of transgenic plants lacking LOX2 accumulated less vsp mRNA than did control leaves in response to wounding. This result suggests that wound-induced JA (or some other LOX2-requiring component of the wound response pathway) is involved in the wound-induced regulation of this gene.
Plastid gene expression was analyzed in pea (Pisum sativum L.) plants grown in darkness, continuous far-red light, and white light. Responses induced by continuous far-red light were most likely mediated by PHYA. Plastid transcription activity was low in dark-grown plants. In contrast, plastids of plants grown in white or far-red light showed a 10-fold increase in transcription activity between 4 and 6 d postimbibition (dpi) and a decrease between 6 and 9 dpi. Plastid RNAs accumulated in illuminated plants from 5 to 7 dpi. In far-red-light-illuminated plants, plastid mRNA levels remained elevated until 14 dpi. In white-light-grown plants, most plastid RNAs decreased in abundance after 7 dpi to very low levels by 14 dpi. This indicates that white light induces a general decrease in plastid RNA stability compared to far-red-light-illuminated seedlings. PsbA mRNA accumulated in older, dark-grown, far-red, and white-light-illuminated seedlings, consistent with this RNA having high stability. Transcription of genes encoding the plastid's transcription and translation apparatus increased relative to rbcL and other genes encoding proteins of the photosynthetic apparatus from 4 to 5 dpi and then declined 10-fold from 5 to 9 dpi. These data document dynamic modulation of plastid gene transcription and mRNA stability during light-induced chloroplast development in pea.
An avirulence gene (designated avrPpiB) from race 3 of Pseudomonas syringae pv. pisi was cloned and sequenced. The gene corresponded to a single open reading frame of 831 nt identified by transposon mutagenesis and subcloning. This ORF encodes a predicted hydrophilic protein of 276 amino acids (MW 31,300). It effects the expression of a resistance mechanism governed by a single genetic locus in pea. Cosegregation of resistance at the R3 locus of pea was observed towards race 3 and a transconjugant carrying the cloned avrPpiB gene according to the predicted 3:1 ratio of resistant:susceptible F2 progeny from a cross between Jade (R3 R3) and Kelvedon Wonder (rr) cultivars. DNA hybridization studies showed avrPpiB to be plasmid-borne in race 3 and suggested the presence of other alleles on one of the endogenous plasmids of races 1 and 7. Disruption of the avrPpiB allele of race 1 and its complementation confirmed its behavior towards pea cultivars expressing the R3 locus. Homologs of avrPpiB were detected in P. syringae pv. phaseolicola, P. syringae pv. maculicola, and P. syringae pv. tomato. The presence of avrPpiB homologs in P. syringae pv. phaseolicola does not match any gene-for-gene pattern of interaction with bean cultivars.
A cDNA coding for arginine decarboxylase (ADC, EC 4.1.1.19) has been isolated from a cDNA library of parthenocarpic young fruits of Pisum sativum (L.). The deduced aminoacid sequence is 74%, 46% and 35% identical to ADCs from tomato, oat and Escherichia coli, respectively. When the pea ADC cDNA was put under the control of the galactose inducible yeast promoter CYC1-GAL10 and introduced into Saccharomyces cerevisiae, it conferred galactose-regulated expression of the ADC activity. The ADC activity expressed in S. cerevisiae was inhibited 99% by alpha-DL-difluoromethylarginine (DFMA), a specific inhibitor of ADC activity. No activity was detected in the untransformed S. cerevisiae, nor when it was transformed with an antisense ADC construct. This provides direct evidence that the ADC cDNA from pea encoded a functional, specific ADC activity and that S. cerevisiae is able to process correctly the protein. In the pea plant, gene expression of the ADC is high in young developing tissues like shoot tips, young leaflets and flower buds. Fully expanded leaflets and roots have much lower, but still detectable, levels of the ADC transcript. In the ovary and fruit, they are developmentally regulated, showing high levels of expression during the early stages of fruit growth, which in pea is mainly due to cell expansion. The observed changes in the steady-state levels of ADC mRNA alone, however, cannot account for the differences in ADC activity suggesting that other regulatory mechanisms must be acting.
We previously reported that the pea (Pisum sativum) gene, Trg31, shows increased transcription and elevated mRNA levels in plant tissues which are dehydrated and lose turgor. The protein encoded by Trg31 is homologous to members of the MIP intrinsic membrane protein superfamily. Expression of Trg31 was characterized during pea seedling development and in transgenic tobacco using Trg31 promoter::Gus fusions. In pea, Trg31 mRNA abundance was highest in roots followed by flowers, stems and leaves. In roots, Trg31 mRNA levels were highest in non-elongating regions and low in root tips. In dark-grown seedlings, Trg31 mRNA levels were high in stems and illumination caused mRNA abundance in stems to decrease. Histochemical analysis of transgenic tobacco expressing Trg31 promoter::Gus constructs showed high GUS activity in root to shoot and hypocotyl to cotyledon junctions and cotyledons in germinating seedlings. High activity was also observed in the leaf marginal meristem and trichomes. In more mature seedlings, Trg31 promoter activity was observed in the non-elongating portion of the root and in stems especially in the vascular tissue. A gradient of expression was noted in leaf to stem junction zones with highest expression in the younger tissues. Very high expression was observed in stems of flowers and other floral tissues including the calyx, corolla, style, ovules, pods and pollen. This expression pattern suggests that the Trg31 gene product may facilitate transport from sources, through transmitting tissues to sinks.
Two cDNA clones representing mRNAs, highly expressed in pea root tips, were isolated by mRNA differential display. Ribonuclease protection analyses showed different patterns of expression of these two messages in several pea tissues. Sequence analysis showed that the first clone, PsH1b-40, has 100% homology with a previously isolated H1 histone cDNA, PsH1b. However, it has an additional 30 nt at the 3' end which is absent in PsH1b, suggesting possible multiple polyadenylation sites in the same mRNA. The second clone, PsH1b-41, encodes a deduced 19.5 kDa protein of 185 amino acids with an isoelectric point of 11.5. The putative globular domain of the encoded protein showed 67-71% residue identity with globular domains of 28 kDa pea PsH1b H1 histone and Arabidopsis thaliana H1-1 H1 histone. It has 9 repeating motifs of (T/S)XXK. In the C-terminal domain, there are four lysine-rich repeating motifs of SXK(T/S)PXKKXK which may be involved in chromatin condensation and decondensation. Southern blot analysis of nuclear DNA shows that PsH1-41 belongs to a multigene family.
ENOD12 is one of the first nodulin genes expressed upon inoculation with Rhizobium and also purified Nod factors are able to induce ENOD12 expression. The ENOD12 gene family in pea (Pisum sativum) has two members. A cDNA clone representing PsENOD12A [26] and a PsENOD12B genomic clone [7] have been previously described. The isolation and characterization of a PsENOD12A genomic clone is presented in this paper. By using a Vicia hirsuta-Agrobacterium rhizogenes transformation system it is shown that both genes have a similar expression pattern in transgenic V. hirsuta root nodules. Promoter analyses of both PsENOD12 promoters showed that the 200 bp immediately upstream of the transcription start are sufficient to direct nodule-specific and Nod factor-induced gene expression.
The pea (Pisum sativum) gene Cyp15a encodes a protein with sequence similarity to cysteine proteases. Expression of Cyp15a was investigated during pea seedling development and in response to environmental stress. Cyp15a shows increased transcription and elevated mRNA levels in plant tissues that are partially dehydrated or treated with 0.6 M mannitol. Cyp15a mRNA levels also increase in seedlings treated with 0.2-0.25 M NaCl or KCl. During development, Cyp15a mRNA levels increase within 6 to 12 h in cotyledons and axes during germination and continue to increase for at least 96 h. Illumination of dark-grown seedlings increased Cyp15a mRNA abundance in elongating and non-elongating stem tissues. GA and ABA, which modulate the abundance of many seed-localized cysteine proteases, did not significantly modulate Cyp15a mRNA levels in stems. The protein encoded by Cyp15a contains a typical amino-terminal secretory targeting domain. This domain is followed by a pro-sequence containing ca. 110 amino acids that is found in other cysteine proteases. Polyclonal antibodies, directed against CYP15a, recognized both the larger pro-form and the cleaved mature form of CYP15a on western blots. Immunolocalization assays indicated that both forms of the protein are located in cell walls of stem cortical cells.
The mutant E135 (sym 13) of pea (Pisum sativum L.) forms a normal number of small white nodules that contain bacteroids, but these bacteroids lack nitrogenase activity. To evaluate the effects of the sym 13 gene on the expression of nodulin genes, cDNA clones for nodulins were isolated from pea nodules and the expression of nodulin genes in ineffective E135 nodules was compared with that in nitrogen-fixing nodules on the wild-type parent, cv. Sparkle. Nineteen cDNA clones for nodulins, including ENOD2 and cDNAs for two distinct leghemoglobins (Lbs), were isolated from Sparkle nodules by a subtractive hybridization procedure. All the nodulin genes examined were expressed in nodules on both E135 and Sparkle plants. However, the level of expression of seven genes, one of which was an Lb gene that corresponded to PsN5, was significantly lower in E135 nodules. The levels of Lb apo-proteins, with the exception of Lb-III and Lb-IV, in E135 nodules resembled those in Sparkle nodules, but the level of heme in E135 nodules was lower than that in Sparkle nodules. Although the expression of the two Lb genes that corresponded to PsN5 and PsN120 in E135 nodules was slightly depressed by exogenous ammonia, the level of the PsN5 transcript was still lower than the control level in Sparkle nodules. Our results indicate that the plant gene sym 13 does not influence the induction of nodulin genes but does influence the level of the expression of some genes, one of which is a gene for Lb, as well as the level of heme.
Transcripts of higher plant mitochondria are modified post-transcriptionally by RNA editing. To distinguish between the mechanisms by which the cytidine to uridine transition could occur a combined transcription/RNA editing assay and an in vitro RNA editing system were investigated. Mitochondria isolated from etiolated pea seedlings and potato tubers were supplied with [alpha-32P]CTP to radiolabel the mitochondrial run-on transcripts. High molecular weight run-on transcripts were isolated and hydrolyzed, and nucleotide identities were analyzed by one- and two-dimensional thin layer chromatography. The amount of label comigrating with UMP nucleotides increases with extended incubation times. Analogous products were obtained by incubation of [alpha-32P]CTP or [5-3H]CTP radiolabeled in vitro transcripts with a mitochondrial lysate from pea mitochondria. 5-3H label of the cytosine base was detected in the UMP spot after incubation of in vitro transcripts with mitochondrial lysate. These results are consistent with a deamination reaction involved in this post-transcriptional C to U modification process. To prove that cytidines are deaminated specifically in vitro transcripts were reisolated after incubation and analyzed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Sequence analysis clearly shows that only cytidines at editing sites are edited while residual cytidines are not modified and suggests that site-specific factors are involved in RNA editing of plant mitochondria.
N-terminal presequences from cDNAs encoding mitochondrion- or chloroplast-specific proteins are able, with variable efficiencies, to target preproteins to their respective organelles. In the few cases studied in which a nuclear-encoded protein is found in both these organelles, each compartment-specific isoform is encoded by a separate gene. Glutathione reductase (GR) from peas is encoded by a single nuclear gene and yet GR is distributed between chloroplasts, mitochondria and the cytosol. Previous sequence analysis of a full-length GR cDNA revealed the presence of a putative plastid transit peptide. However, expression of this cDNA in transgenic tobacco resulted in substantially elevated GR activities in both chloroplasts and mitochondria in four independent lines examined. There was no effect on expression of the endogenous tobacco GR genes. Replacement of the GR presequence with presequences from pea rbcS (chloroplast) and Nicotiana plumbaginifolia Mn-SOD (mitochondrion) resulted in targeting of GR only into the appropriate organelle. Expression of a fusion protein between the amino terminal region of GR and phosphinothricin acetyl transferase resulted in targeting of the foreign protein to chloroplasts and mitochondria. Thus, the pea GR presequence is capable of co-targeting this enzyme or a foreign protein to chloroplasts and mitochondria in vivo. This is the first example of co-targeting by a higher plant preprotein.
YPT/rab proteins are ras-like small GTP-binding proteins that serve as key regulators of vesicular transport. The mRNA levels of two YPT/rab genes in pea plants are repressed by light, with the process mediated by phytochrome. Here, we examined the mRNA expression and the location of the two proteins, pra2- and pra3-encoded proteins, using monoclonal antibodies. The pra2 and pra3 mRNA levels were highest in the stems of dark-grown seedlings. The corresponding proteins were found in the cytosol and the membranes of the stems. Most of the pra2 protein was in the growing internodes, especially in the growing region, but the pra3 protein was widespread. These results suggest that the pra2 protein is important for vesicular transport in stems, possibly contributing to stem growth in the dark, and that the pra3 protein is important for general vesicular transport. The amounts of pra2 and pra3 proteins decreased with illumination. The decrease in these proteins may be related to the phytochrome-dependent inhibition of stem growth that occurs in etiolated pea seedlings.
The plant hormone, indoleacetic acid (IAA), transcriptionally activates two early genes in pea, PS-IAA4/5 and PS-IAA6 that encode short-lived nuclear proteins. The identification of the nuclear localization signals (NLS) in PS-IAA4 and PS-IAA6 using progressive deletion analysis and site-directed mutagenesis is reported. A C-terminal SV40-type NLS is sufficient to direct the beta-glucuronidase reporter to the nucleus of transiently transformed tobacco protoplasts, but is dispensible for nuclear localization of both proteins. The dominant and essential NLS in PS-IAA4 and PS-IAA6 overlap with a bipartite basic motif which is polymorphic and conserved in related proteins from other plant species, having the consensus sequence (KKNEK)KR-X(24-71)-(RSXRK)/(RK/RK). Both basic elements of this motif in PS-IAA4, (KR-X41-RSYRK), function interdependently as a bipartite NLS. However, in PS-IAA6 (KKNEKKR-X36-RKK) the upstream element of the corresponding motif contains additional basic residues which allow its autonomous function as an SV40-type monopartite NLS. The spacer-length polymorphism, X(24-70), in respective bipartite NLS peptides of several PS-IAA4-like proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana does not affect nuclear targeting function. The structural and functional variation of the bipartite basic motif in PS-IAA4-like proteins supports the proposed integrated consensus of NLS.
The glutamine synthetase (GS) gene family in pea (Pisum sativum) consists of four nuclear genes encoding distinct isoenzymes. Molecular studies have show that the GS2 gene encoding chloroplast-localized GS is expected in specific cell types and is regulated by diverse factors such as light and photorespiration. Here, we present the nucleotide sequence of the pea GS2 gene promoter. To identify the elements involved in regulation of GS2 expression, GS2 promoter-deletion analyses were performed using GS2-GUS fusions in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum). This analysis revealed that the GS2 transit peptide is not required for mesophyll cell-specific expression of beta-glucuronidase (GUS). GUS activity was induced 2- to 4-fold in light-grown versus etiolated T1 seedlings. However, high levels of GUS activity were observed in etiolated seedlings. This observation demonstrated that regulation of expression of GS2, a nonphotosynthetic light-regulated gene, involves additional factors. A 323-bp GS2 promoter sequence is sufficient to confer light regulation to the GUS reporter gene in leaves of mature transgenic tobacco. Light-regulated expression of this pea gene promoter is observed in both tobacco and Arabidopsis, suggesting that the regulatory elements are conserved. Gel-shift analysis detected DNA-protein complexes formed with potential transcription elements within this short, light-responsive GS2 promoter fragment.
The nucleolus, the site of transcription and processing of the major ribosomal genes, generally reveals three distinct ultrastructural components in conventional thin-section electron micrographs (fibrillar centres, dense fibrillar component and granular component). We show here that different parts of the transcription and transcript processing pathway can be mapped to the different nucleolar components in pea root cells. This study shows the full three-dimensional arrangement of the different domains by in situ hybridization and confocal microscopy, and their correspondence with the major ultrastructural components of the nucleolus is revealed by parallel serial section electron microscopy. The active rDNA is widely dispersed in discrete foci, the larger of which, at least, correspond to well-defined fibrillar centres. A probe to the external transcribed spacer (ETS) sequence of the pre-rRNA transcripts labels clearly demarcated regions surrounding the foci of rDNA, and which we show correspond to the dense fibrillar component. Finally, a probe to the entire 45S transcript shows a higher concentration in regions corresponding to the granular component, surrounding the dense fibrillar component labelled by the ETS probe. The changes in structure that occur with heat shock show that nucleolar organization is dynamic and dependent upon transcriptional activity. These results show that the various RNA processing events are spatially highly organized and suggest a vectorial or radial model of transcription and transcript processing, where nascent and newly completed transcripts occupy zones surrounding the genes, which are in turn surrounded by regions containing the older more mature transcripts.
Both elicitor and supprescin (suppressor) are present in the pycnospore germination fluid of a pea pathogen Mycospharella pinodes. A nuclear run-on assay revealed that supprescin rapidly deactivated elicitor-triggered transcription of the gene encoding phenylalnine ammonia-lyase in pea epicotyl tissues. The mechanism underlying the deactivation of the plant defense gene by signal molecules secreted from the fungal pathogen was investigated. Cis-acting sequences and trans-acting factors responsive to supprescin in a TATA-proximal region of a member of the phenylalanine ammonia-lyase gene family in pea were examined in vitro. Gel mobility-shift assays and DNase I footprinting analysis revealed that the promoter region of PSPAL2 was modified by the binding of nuclear factors at multiple sites that were possibly involved in supprescin-mediated deactivation. The prominent changes by supprescin were observed at boxes 2 and 4 and near exonic sequences.
A chloroplastic outer envelope membrane protein of 75 kDa (OEP75) was identified previously as a component of the protein import machinery. Here we provide additional evidence that OEP75 is a component of protein import, present the isolation of a cDNA clone encoding this protein, briefly describe its developmental expression and tissue specificity, and characterize its insertion into the outer envelope membrane. OEP75 was synthesized as a higher molecular weight precursor (prOEP75) which bound to isolated chloroplasts in an in vitro import assay and subsequently was processed to the mature form (mOEP75). During this import assay, two proteins intermediate in size between prOEP75 and mOEP75 were detected. One of these intermediates was also detected in chloroplast envelopes isolated from young pea leaves. Binding and processing of prOEP75 required ATP and one or more surface-exposed proteinaceous components, and was competed by prSSU, a stromal-targeted protein. We propose that the N-terminus of the prOEP75 transit peptide acts as a stromal-targeting domain and a central, hydrophobic region of this transit peptide acts as a stop-transfer domain. A complex route of insertion and processing of prOEP75 may exist to ensure high fidelity targeting of this import component.
Acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (ACCase, EC 6.4.1.2) catalyzes the synthesis of malonyl-coenzyme A, which is utilized in the plastid for de novo fatty acid synthesis and outside the plastid for a variety of reactions, including the synthesis of very long chain fatty acids and flavonoids. Recent evidence for both multifunctional and multisubunit ACCase isozymes in dicot plants has been obtained. We describe here the isolation of a tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L. cv bright yellow 2 [NT1]) cDNA clone (E3) that encodes a 58.4-kD protein that shares 80% sequence similarity and 65% identity with the Anabaena biotin carboxylase subunit of ACCase. Similar to other biotin carboxylase subunits of acetyl-CoA carboxylase, the E3-encoded protein contains a putative ATP-binding motif but lacks a biotin-binding site (methionine-lysine-methionine or methionine-lysine-leucine). The deduced protein sequence contains a putative transit peptide whose function was confirmed by its ability to direct in vitro chloroplast uptake. The subcellular localization of this biotin carboxylase has also been confirmed to be plastidial by western blot analysis of pea (Pisum sativum), alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.), and castor (Ricinus communis L.) plastid preparations. Northern blot analysis indicates that the plastid biotin carboxylase transcripts are expressed at severalfold higher levels in castor seeds than in leaves.
An integration vector was developed which inserts cloned DNA in a non-essential site of the Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viciae chromosome. The expression of integrated genes is under the control of the constitutive neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) promoter of transposon Tn5. The design of the vector ensures that loss of vector sequences can be detected, enabling selection of progeny containing only the requisite DNA. The newly constructed vector was employed to insert the Escherichia coli gusA gene conferring GUS activity into R. leguminosarum bv. viciae strain LRS39401 which is cured of its symbiotic plasmid (pSym). One GUS-positive transconjugant, strain CT0370, was shown to have lost all vector sequences. Conjugal transfer of pSym2004 (a Tn5-tagged derivative of symbiotic plasmid pRL1JI, which specifies pea nodulation and symbiotic nitrogen fixation) to CT0370, restored the GUS-positive strain's symbiotic proficiency. Strain CT0370 is presently being used in a field release experiment in order to assess the extent of pSym transfer in a natural R. leguminosarum bv. viciae population under environmental conditions.
The cDNA fragment coding for mature chloroplast pea fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase [Fru(1,6)P2ase] was introduced by PCR into the expression vector pET-3d resulting in the construction pET-FBP. After transformation of BL21 (DE3) Escherichia coli cells by the pET-FBP plasmid and induction with isopropyl thio-beta-D-galactoside, high-level expression of the recombinant enzyme was achieved. The protein could be purified in three days by a simple procedure which includes heat treatment, ammonium sulfate fractionation, DEAE Sephacel and ACA 44 chromatographies with a yield of 20 mg/l culture. In every respect, the recombinant enzyme was similar to plant chloroplast Fru(1,6)P2ase and, in particular, its reactivity with Mg2+ and redox regulatory properties were conserved. In a second series of experiments based on three-dimensional modeling of the chloroplast protein and sequence alignments, two cysteine residues of the recombinant enzyme (Cys173 and Cys178) were mutated into serine residues. An active enzyme, which did not respond to thiol reagents and to light activation, was obtained, confirming the putative regulatory role of the insertional sequence characteristic of the chloroplast enzyme.
We report the sequencing of a 2,019-bp region of the Streptococcus mutans NG5 genome which contains a 1,428-bp open reading frame (ORF) whose putative translation product had 50% identity to the amino acid sequences of the nonphosphorylating, NADP-dependent glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenases (GAPN) from maize and pea. This ORF is located approximately 200 bp downstream of the ptsI gene coding for enzyme I of the phosphoenolpyruvate:sugar phosphotransferase transport system. Mutant BCH150, in which the putative gapN gene had been inactivated, lacked GAPN activity that was present in the wild-type strain, thus positively identifying the ORF as the S. mutans gapN gene. Another strain of S. mutans, DC10, which contains an insertionally inactivated ptsI gene, still possessed GAPN activity, as did S. salivarius ATCC 25975, which contains an insertion element between the ptsI and gapN genes. Since the wild-type S. mutans NG5 lacks both glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and NADH:NADP oxidoreductase activities, the NADP-dependent glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase is important as a means of generating NADPH for biosynthetic reactions.
The chloroplast genome is highly condensed and packed into discrete structures called "nucleoids". Each pea chloroplast contains 16-20 spherical nucleoids randomly located in the matrix of organelle. Nucleoids are shown to contain DNA, RNA and proteins (1:0.62:2.3). Approximately 30 polypeptides (mol. masses 94 to 12 kD) have been found in nucleoids. Chloroplast DNA is associated with acidic as well as basic proteins, two of which are electrophoretically similar to histones H2A+H2B and H3 of pea cell nuclei. Amino acid composition of these proteins demonstrates high similarity with "HU" proteins of E. coli.
Ethylene induced an increase in the accumulation of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) oxidase transcript level and enzyme activity in the first internode of 5- to 6-day-old etiolated pea (Pisum sativum L.) seedlings. Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), which stimulates ethylene production by enhancing ACC synthase activity, also caused an increase in ACC oxidase transcript and activity levels. The IAA-induced increase in ACC oxidase mRNA level and enzyme activity was blocked by 2,5-norbornadiene (NBD), a competitive inhibitor of ethylene action. This indicates that IAA induced ACC oxidase through the action of ethylene. The level of ACC synthase mRNA and enzyme activity started to increase less than 1 h after the start of IAA treatment, whereas ACC oxidase activity and transcript levels began to rise after 2 h of IAA treatment. These results indicate that the enzymes of ethylene biosynthesis are sequentially induced after treatment of intact pea seedlings with IAA. The increase in ACC synthase activity leads to the production of ACC, which is converted by the low constitutive level of ACC oxidase activity to ethylene. Through a positive feedback loop, ethylene promotes the accumulation of ACC oxidase mRNA and the increase in ACC oxidase activity.
The nuclear factors presumably associated with the activation of the gene encoding phenylalanine ammonia-lyase by a fungal elicitor were characterized in pea (Pisum sativum L.) epicotyls. The TATA-proximal region was dissected and putative cis-regulatory elements in the promoter of pea phenylalanine ammonia-lyase gene 1 were examined by gel-mobility shift and in vitro footprinting analyses. Specific binding of the nuclear factors to the promoter-proximal regions of pea phenylalanine ammonia-lyase gene 1 associated with elicitor-mediated activation was detected at a region containing consensus sequence motifs of boxes 2 and 4 and other AT-rich sequences. The analyses of DNA fragments containing the deleted promoter regions suggested that a residue from -183 to -173 (ATTAGTAAGTGAT) was essential for a maximal activity of forming low-mobility complex (LMC) in the gel-mobility shift assay, and synthetic oligonucleotides confirmed the presence of at least one nuclear component associated with the formation of an active LMC. Competition experiments and treatment with Hoechst 33258 provided direct evidence that the formation of LMC with the promoter fragments from genes encoding phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and chalcone synthase in pea contained one or more of the same proteins that recognize AT-rich sequence motifs for binding. It also suggests that common high-mobility group-like proteins might be involved in the regulation of elicitor-inducible genes in pea.
Bruchid larvae cause major losses of grain legume crops through-out the world. Some bruchid species, such as the cowpea weevil and the azuki bean weevil, are pests that damage stored seeds. Others, such as the pea weevil (Bruchus pisorum), attack the crop growing in the field. We transferred the cDNA encoding the [alpha]-amylase inhibitor ([alpha]-AI) found in the seeds of the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) into pea (Pisum sativum) using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Expression was driven by the promoter of phytohemagglutinin, another bean seed protein. The [alpha]-amylase inhibitor gene was stably expressed in the transgenic pea seeds at least to the T5 seed generation, and [alpha]-AI accumulated in the seeds up to 3% of soluble protein. This level is somewhat higher than that normally found in beans, which contain 1 to 2% [alpha]-AI. In the T5 seed generation the development of pea weevil larvae was blocked at an early stage. Seed damage was minimal and seed yield was not significantly reduced in the transgenic plants. These results confirm the feasibility of protecting other grain legumes such as lentils, mungbean, groundnuts, and chickpeas against a variety of bruchids using the same approach. Although [alpha]-AI also inhibits human [alpha]-amylase, cooked peas should not have a negative impact on human energy metabolism.
Early light-inducible proteins (ELIPs) are nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins whose genes are transiently transcribed during the greening process of etiolated plants. In the present work the regulation of ELIP gene expression by blue and red light has been investigated in plumulas of etiolated pea plants (Pisum sativum). The results show that the steady-state level of ELIP transcripts is controlled by a combined action of phytochrome and blue light receptor systems and, in addition, depends on the age of the seedlings. Both a low-light fluence system of blue and a very-low-fluence system of red light are involved in ELIP induction. The threshold for accumulation of ELIP transcripts was as low as 10-5 [mu]E m-2 s-1 for both light qualities but a different pattern of accumulation was obtained in blue and in red light. Blue light not only acts at the level of transcription but also regulates the stability of the ELIP transcripts in a light intensity-dependent manner. Moreover, it is shown that product(s) of nuclear gene(s) negatively regulate the steady-state level of ELIP transcripts during the 1st h of illumination with red light. Preillumination of seedlings with white light abolishes this repression. Accumulation of ELIP transcripts requires "plastid factors" in both blue and red light qualities.
The fungicidal class I endochitinases (E.C.3.3.1.14, chitinase) are associated with the biochemical defense of plants against potential pathogens. We isolated and sequenced a genomic clone, DAH53, corresponding to a class I basic endochitinase gene in pea, Chi1. The predicted amino acid sequence of this chitinase contains a hydrophobic C-terminal domain similar to the vacuole targeting sequences of class I chitinases isolated from other plants. The pea genome contains one gene corresponding to the chitinase DAH53 probe. Chitinase RNA accumulation was observed in pea pods within 2 to 4 h after inoculation with the incompatible fungal strain Fusarium solani f. sp. phaseoli, the compatible strain F. solani f.sp. pisi, or the elicitor chitosan. The RNA accumulation was high in the basal region (lower stem and root) of both fungus challenged and wounded pea seedlings. The sustained high levels of chitinase mRNA expression may contribute to later stages of pea's non-host resistance.
A clone encoding aspartate aminotransferase (AAT, EC 2.6.1.1) was isolated from an Arabidopsis thaliana leaf cDNA library. This clone contains a 1365 bp open reading frame encoding a polypeptide of 49.8 kDa, designated Ataat1. The clone was shown to contain a chloroplastic isoenzyme as an in organellar protein import assay demonstrated that a radiolabelled transcription/translation product of 49.8 kDa was imported into viable pea chloroplasts and was subsequently processed to yield a mature protein of 45 kDa. The open reading frame corresponding to the predicted mature AAT was manipulated into an expression construct (pEC14). Transformed Escherichia coli cells containing pEC14 expressed up to 16 times more AAT activity than vector only controls, thus demonstrating conclusively that the clone encoded AAT.
A cDNA clone (loxg) corresponding to a gene repressed during carpel development has been isolated from a cDNA library of unpollinated carpels induced to grow by treatment with gibberellic acid (GA3). The sequences of loxg cDNA and the deduced polypeptide have a high similarity with legume type 2 lipoxygenases, especially with Phaseolus lox1 (78.5% similarity at the protein level) and pea and soybean lox3 (83.6% and 85.4%, respectively). loxg expression is constant in unstimulated carpels but it decreases in carpels induced to keep growing by fertilization or hormone treatment. A similar pattern of repression was observed in lipoxygenase activity of pea and tomato carpels. In situ hybridization studies showed that loxg mRNAs are present in the endocarp and the mesocarp of pea pods; no loxg expression was detectable either in the pod exocarp or in the ovules. Loxg is also expressed in other young growing tissues, especially in flower organs. Nevertheless, the natural pattern of flower and fruit development is associated with loxg repression.
We have characterized two glutamine synthetase (GS) cDNA clones (pGS13 and pGS100) representing mRNA from root nodules of alfalfa. pGS13 is a full-length version of a previously isolated partial cDNA from an alfalfa nodule cDNA library, while pGS100 was previously isolated from an alfalfa suspension culture cDNA library. Using the 3' untranslated region of the two cDNAs as gene-specific probes, we have shown that the GS genes represented by pGS100 and pGS13 are expressed in all organs tested, although at varying levels. pGS13, however, represents the nodule-enhanced GS gene class. Genomic Southern blot analysis using gene-specific probes shows multiple hybridizing bands, in each case suggesting multiple genes and/or alleles for each class of cytoplasmic GS genes. In situ hybridization of alfalfa nodule sections with gene-specific antisense RNA probes has shown that the nodule-enhanced GS genes are induced in the invasion zone and that their expression is limited to the symbiotic zone, while the GS genes represented by pGS100 are induced in the early symbiotic zone and are expressed throughout the symbiotic and senescent zones. Transcripts for both sets of GS genes are localized in the infected cells and based on the spatial expression pattern it would appear that the two gene classes are induced independently of the onset of nitrogen fixation.
Characterization of Pisum (pea) seed trypsin inhibitors (TI) and their corresponding cDNAs indicates that the pea TI gene family contains two genes. The existence of multiple TI isoforms can be attributed to post-translational modifications of primary gene products. Post-translational processing at the C-terminus during the desiccation stage of seed development results in the appearance of TI isoforms with increased affinity for the target enzyme, trypsin.
Escherichia coli cells carrying the mvrA mutation are unable to grow aerobically in the presence of the radical propagator methyl viologen (MV). Resistance against MV toxicity could be restored by the introduction of cloned DNA sequences encoding pea chloroplast ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase (FNR), a member of a class of flavoenzymes involved in redox pathways in bacteria, plants and animals. Complementation was strictly dependent on the accumulation of a functional transgenic FNR, since mutated reductases showing decreased enzymatic activities only partially rescued the MV-resistant phenotype. These results support recent observations suggesting that the E. coli mvrA gene encodes a ferredoxin (flavodoxin)-NADP+ reductase (V. Bianchi et al. (1993) J. Bacteriol. 175, 1590-1595). The mvrA mutant cells showed a moderate decrease in the flavodoxin-dependent activation of enzymes essential for anaerobic growth of E. coli. This effect is prevented by expression of a functional pea FNR in the mutant cells.
Eukaryotes express several cytoplasmic HSP70 genes, and their encoded proteins participate in diverse cellular processes. Three cDNAs encoding highly expressed cytoplasmic HSP70 homologues from Pisum sativum were cloned and characterized. They were designated PsHSP71.2, PsHSC71.0, and PsHSP70b. These HSP70 genes have different expression profiles in leaves: PsHSP71.2 is observed only in response to heat stress, PsHSC71.0 is present constitutively, and PsHSP70b is weakly constitutively expressed, but induced strongly in response to heat stress. In addition to being heat induced, the PsHSP71.2 mRNA is also expressed in zygotic, but not maternal organs of developing pea seeds, while PsHSC71.0 and PsHSP70b mRNAs are present in maternal and zygotic organs throughout seed development. Immunoblot analysis of parallel protein samples detects a 70 kDa polypeptide in all samples, and a 72 kDa polypeptide that corresponds to the PsHSP71.2 gene product is observed in cotyledons beginning at mid-maturation and in axes beginning between late maturation and desiccation. This polypeptide is not detected in the seed coat. The 72 kDa polypeptide remains abundant in both cotyledons and axes through germination, but declines substantially between 48 and 72 h after the onset of inbibition. Differential control of HSP70 expression during heat stress, seed maturation, and germination is consistent with the hypothesis that there are functional distinctions between cytoplasmic HSP70s.
alpha- and beta-tubulin proteins are subunits of microtubules, which as primary elements of the plant cytoskeleton play major roles in plant cell division and cell morphogenesis. Several higher-plant alpha- and beta-tubulin gene families have been reported to have at least six to nine members each. Using genomic Southern hybridizations and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) experiments, we have found that the Pisum sativum (garden pea) genome has only four copies of alpha-tubulin sequences and a similar number of beta-tubulin sequences. We have characterized the pea alpha-tubulin gene TubA1. Its nucleotide sequence predicts a 452 amino acid product which is 89-98% identical to those predicted for other plant alpha-tubulins. By S1 nuclease analysis we have located the transcript start site at 102 bases upstream of the ATG. We have also shown that the TubA1 gene is expressed by northern hybridization with a gene-specific probe.
Transient expression and stable integration and expression of transgenes were observed in the tissues and offspring of certain leguminous plants after electroporation of DNA into intact nodal meristems in planta. The method described in this article thus allows the study of transgene expression in tissues differentiating from meristematic cells present in the treated buds. In addition, transgenic plants can be recovered in the offspring of electroporated individuals. Therefore, this technique allows the production of transgenic leguminous plants without the need for in vitro tissue culture, often a major hurdle with this family.
Protochlorophyllide reductase (NADPH:protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase; EC 1.6.99.1) catalyzes the light-dependent reduction of protochlorophyllide to chlorophyllide, a key regulatory step in the chlorophyll biosynthetic pathway. We have developed an expression system in which the protochlorophyllide reductase from pea (Pisum sativum L.) is used to complement protochlorophyllide reduction mutants in the photosynthetic bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus, allowing analysis of wild-type and mutant forms of the enzyme. By protein sequence comparisons, we have identified the plant protochlorophyllide reductases as belonging to the family of short-chain alcohol dehydrogenases. Based on our protein sequence alignments, we have identified and mutated two conserved residues (Tyr-275 and Lys-279) within the proposed active site of the enzyme and shown that they are critical for activity. A model of the enzyme reaction mechanism for light-dependent protochlorophyllide reduction is proposed.
The intracellular compartmentation of serine acetyltransferase, a key enzyme in the L-cysteine biosynthesis pathway, has been investigated in pea (Pisum sativum) leaves, by isolation of organelles and fractionation of protoplasts. Enzyme activity was mainly located in mitochondria (approximately 76% of total cellular activity). Significant activity was also identified in both the cytosol (14% of total activity) and chloroplasts (10% of total activity). Three enzyme forms were separated by anion-exchange chromatography, and each form was found to be specific for a given intracellular compartment. To obtain cDNA encoding the isoforms, functional complementation experiments were performed using an Arabidopsis thaliana expression library and an Escherichia coli mutant devoid of serine acetyltransferase activity. This strategy allowed isolation of three distinct cDNAs encoding serine acetyltransferase isoforms, as confirmed by enzyme activity measurements, genomic hybridizations, and nucleotide sequencing. The cDNA and related gene for one of the three isoforms have been characterized. The predicted amino acid sequence shows that it encodes a polypeptide of M(r) 34,330 exhibiting 41% amino acid identity with the E. coli serine acetyltransferase. Since none of the general features of transit peptides could be observed in the N-terminal region of this isoform, we assume that it is a cytosolic form.
Vicilin, a 7S globulin of Pisum sativum L. seed, accumulates in protein-storage vacuoles (protein bodies) of cotyledonary storage-parenchyma cells. The synthesis and proteolytic processing of various genetically engineered proteins within the leaf and seed of a heterologous (tobacco, Nicotiana tabacum L.) host was examined. A modified vicilin gene, in which the DNA sequence corresponding to the signal peptide was removed, resulted in a polypeptide of 50 kDa in the tobacco leaf and seed; none of the normal proteolytic cleavage products characteristic of expression of an unmodified vicilin gene were obtained. Likewise, no vacuolar accumulation of this mutant vicilin occurred in leaf protoplasts, which is also supportive of the predicted cytosolic localization for this protein. In-frame deletions were made within the region of the vicilin gene encoding the mature protein, to eliminate the N-terminal 28 and 121 amino acids and the C-terminal 69 residues, while maintaining an intact signal peptide. All of these "mature" deletion-mutant proteins were accumulated to only low levels in the host, but exhibited the predicted molecular weight and underwent some normal proteolytic processing in the seed. Mutant vicilin proteins having deletions in either the N-terminus (delta NT 121) or C-terminus (delta CT 69) were not found in appreciable amounts within the vacuolar fraction of transgenic tobacco leaf protoplasts, perhaps due to protein degradation in this compartment. Compared with the intact vicilin, oligomer assembly of the C-terminal deletion-mutant protein was disrupted in leaf cells, which may have further affected protein stability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The plant hormone indoleacetic acid (IAA) rapidly induces transcription of two genes, PS-IAA4/5 and PS-IAA6, in pea that encode nuclear proteins. The proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli and polyclonal antibodies were raised. The proteins can neither be detected on immunoblots of pea extracts from IAA-treated epicotyls nor subcellularly localized by immunofluorescence, suggesting that they are of low abundance. However, they can be immunoprecipitated as 35S-methionine-labeled proteins synthesized in vivo from control and IAA-treated tissue segments. Short-term time-course experiments indicate that the amounts of PS-IAA4/5 and PS-IAA6 proteins decrease dramatically in non-IAA-treated tissue. However, the hormone slightly increases the PS-IAA4/5 and significantly enhances the PS-IAA6 proteins compared with the initial amounts present in the tissue, despite a large induction of both mRNAs. A net increase in the amount of the in vivo synthesized PS-IAA6 is observed after a lag period of 30 min after addition of IAA. Little or no PS-IAA4/5 or PS-IAA6 protein is detected after 6 h of induction, even though PS-IAA4/5 and PS-IAA6 mRNAs remain detectable. Immunoprecipitation of in vitro translated polypeptides with mRNAs from various auxin-treated and untreated mono- and dicotyledonous plants reveals that similar proteins are encoded by constitutive or IAA-induced mRNAs. Phylogenetic analysis of 10 PS-IAA4-like proteins from various plant species reveals that the PS-IAA4 and PS-IAA6 proteins belong to different lineages, suggesting that they may have distinct functions. The data suggest that as a primary response to IAA plant tissues produce short-lived nuclear proteins whose synthesis is regulated at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels.
cDNA clones for two isoforms of starch branching enzyme (SBEI and SBEII) have been isolated from pea embryos and sequenced. The deduced amino acid sequences of pea SBEI and SBEII are closely related to starch branching enzymes of maize, rice, potato and cassava and a number of glycogen branching enzymes from yeast, mammals and several prokaryotic species. In comparison with SBEI, the deduced amino acid sequence of SBEII lacks a flexible domain at the N-terminus of the mature protein. This domain is also present in maize SBEII and rice SBEIII and resembles one previously reported for pea granule-bound starch synthase II (GBSSII). However, in each case it is missing from the other isoform of SBE from the same species. On the basis of this structural feature (which exists in some isoforms from both monocots and dicots) and other differences in sequence, SBEs from plants may be divided into two distinct enzyme families. There is strong evidence from our own and other work that the amylopectin products of the enzymes from these two families are qualitatively different. Pea SBEI and SBEII are differentially expressed during embryo development. SBEI is relatively highly expressed in young embryos whilst maximum expression of SBEII occurs in older embryos. The differential expression of isoforms which have distinct catalytic properties means that the contribution of each SBE isoform to starch biosynthesis changes during embryo development. Qualitative measurement of amylopectin from developing and maturing embryos confirms that the nature of amylopectin changes during pea embryo development and that this correlates with the differential expression of SBE isoforms.
Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) large subunit (LS) N-methyltransferase (protein methylase III, Rubisco LSMT, EC 2.1.1.43) catalyzes methylation of the epsilon-amino group of Lys-14 in the LS of Rubisco. With limited internal amino acid sequence information obtained from HPLC-purified peptic polypeptides from Rubisco LSMT, a full-length cDNA clone was isolated utilizing polymerase chain reaction-based technology and conventional bacteriophage library screening. The 1802 bp cDNA of Rubisco LSMT encodes a 489 amino acid polypeptide with a predicted molecular mass of ca. 55 kDa. A derived N-terminal amino acid sequence with features common to chloroplast transit peptides was identified. The deduced sequence of Rubisco LSMT did not exhibit regions of significant homology with other protein methyltransferases. Southern blot analysis of pea genomic DNA indicated a low gene copy number of Rubisco LSMT in pea. Northern analysis revealed a single mRNA species of about 1.8 kb encoding for Rubisco LSMT which was predominately located in leaf tissue. Illumination of etiolated pea seedlings showed that the accumulation of Rubisco LSMT mRNA is light-dependent. Maximum accumulation of Rubisco LSMT transcripts occurred during the initial phase of light-induced leaf development which preceded the maximum accumulation of rbcS and rbcL mRNA. Transcript levels of Rubisco LSMT in mature light-grown tissue were similar to transcript levels in etiolated tissues indicating that the light-dependent accumulation of Rubisco LSMT mRNA is transient. This is the first reported DNA and amino acid sequence for a protein methylase III enzyme.
The effect of light on the expression of the Arabidopsis thaliana ferredoxin gene (fedA) was studied in mature tobacco plants. In light-treated leaves of tobacco plants transformed with a full-length ferredoxin gene, fedA-specific mRNA levels were more than twenty fold higher than in dark-treated controls. This indicates that all components for regulation of the Arabidopsis ferredoxin gene are present in tobacco. To identify light-regulatory elements in the fedA gene, we have tested a set of chimeric genes containing various parts of the fedA gene for light-dependent expression in mature tobacco plants. A fedA promoter-GUS fusion gene was not light-responsive, indicating that the 5'-upstream promoter region is not sufficient for light regulation. Fusion genes in which different transcribed regions of the fedA gene were expressed from the CaMV 35S promoter showed only limited light regulation, if any at all. This indicates that, like the fedA upstream region, the region downstream of the transcription start site is also not sufficient for full light regulation. The combined results suggest that for full light-regulated expression of the fedA gene, both the promoter region and sequences downstream of the transcription start site are required.
Plant ferritin subunits are synthesized as precursor molecules; the transit peptide (TP) in their NH2 extremity, responsible for plastid targeting, is cleaved during translocation to this compartment. In addition, the N-terminus of the mature subunit contains a plant-specific sequence named extension peptide (EP) [Ragland, Briat, Gagnon, Laulhère, Massenet, and Theil, E.C. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 18339-18344], the function of which is unknown. A novel pea-seed ferritin cDNA, with a consensus ferroxidase centre conserved within H-type animal ferritins has been characterized. This pea-seed ferritin cDNA has been engineered using oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis to produce DNA fragments (1) corresponding to the wild-type (WT) ferritin precursor, (2) with the TP deleted, (3) with both the TP and the plant specific EP sequences deleted and (4) containing the TP but with the EP deleted. These four DNA fragments have been cloned in an Escherichia coli expression vector to produce the corresponding recombinant pea-seed ferritins. Expression at 37 degrees C led to the accumulation of recombinant pea-seed ferritins in inclusion bodies, whatever the construct introduced in E. coli. Expression at 25 degrees C in the presence of sorbitol and betaine allowed soluble proteins to accumulate when constructs with the TP deleted were used; under this condition, E. coli cells transformed with constructs containing the TP were unable to accumulate recombinant protein. Recombinant ferritins purified from inclusion bodies were found to be assembled only when the TP was deleted; however assembled ferritin under this condition had a ferroxidase activity undetectable at acid pH. On the other hand, soluble recombinant ferritins with the TP deleted and expressed at 25 degrees C were purified as 24-mers containing an average of 40-50 iron atoms per molecule. Despite the conservation in the plant ferritin subunit of a consensus ferroxidase centre, the iron uptake activity in vitro at pH 6.8 was found to be lower than that of the recombinant human H-ferritin, though it was much more active than the recombinant human L-ferritin. The recombinant ferritin with both the TP and the EP deleted (r delta TP/EP) assembled correctly as a 24-mer; it has slightly higher ferroxidase activity and decreased solubility compared with the wild-type protein with the TP deleted (r delta TP). In addition, on denaturation by urea followed by renaturation by dialysis the r delta TP/EP protein showed a 25% increase in core-formation in vitro compared with the r delta TP protein.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The PDA1 gene of Nectria haematococca MP VI (anamorph: Fusarium solani) encodes pisatin demethylase. This enzyme detoxifies the isoflavanoid phytoalexin pisatin produced by the plant on which this fungus is pathogenic. Expression of pisatin demethylase activity is induced in a mycelium by pretreatment with pisatin. We have developed homologous in vitro system which accurately initiates transcription from the PDA1 promoter. Transcription levels in vitro reflect the same pisatin-responsive stimulation as measured for PDA1 mRNA in vivo, and are dependent upon sequences in the 5' upstream region of PDA1. Pisatin-responsive transcription from the PDA1 promoter indicates that initiation of transcription is a major regulatory step in the pisatin induction of pisatin demethylase expression.
In order to improve the quality of pasture protein for ruminant animal nutrition, we are introducing genes encoding rumen-protected proteins, rich in essential amino acids, into white clover (Trifolium repens L.). We have introduced a chimaeric gene transcribed from the 35S CaMV promoter, and encoding the pea albumin 1 (PA1) protein, rich in sulphur amino acids, into the white clover genotype WR8 by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. A transgenic plant with high levels of PA1 mRNA was crossed with a commercial genotype from cv. Regal Ladino and both the parent and progeny plants were analyzed for expression and accumulation of PA1 gene products. Steady-state mRNA levels and transcript sizes in transgenic parent and progeny were comparable. The abundance and stability of the PA1 protein in transgenic white clover plants was examined by immunoselection of in vivo [35S]Na2SO4-labelled plant proteins. Evidence is presented here, that the 11 kDa PA1 proprotein precursor is processed correctly in petiole tissues of newly regenerated white clover plantlets but only the 6 kDa PA1a subunit accumulates in leaflets of tissue-culture-grown and older glasshouse-grown clover plants. Attempts to enhance PA1 abundance by altering its subcellular target in transgenic tobacco plants suggest that the endomembrane system is a relatively stable environment compared with the cytoplasm or chloroplast, for the accumulation of PA1, despite its low abundance there (< 0.001% total cell protein).
Dehydrins are a family of proteins characterised by conserved amino acid motifs, and induced in plants by dehydration or treatment with ABA. An antiserum was raised against a synthetic oligopeptide based on the most highly conserved dehydrin amino acid motif, the lysine-rich (core sequence KIKEK-LPG). This antiserum detected a novel M(r) 40,000 polypeptide and enabled isolation of a corresponding cDNA clone, pPsB61 (B61). The deduced amino acid sequence contained two lysine-rich blocks, however the remainder of the sequenced differed markedly from other pea dehydrins. Surprisingly, the sequence contained a stretch of serine residues, a characteristic common to dehydrins from many plant species but which is missing in pea dehydrin. The expression patterns of B61 mRNA and polypeptide were distinctively different from those of the pea dehydrins during seed development, germination and in young seedlings exposed to dehydration stress or treated with ABA. In particular, dehydration stress led to slightly reduced levels of B61 RNA, and ABA application to young seedlings had no marked effect on its abundance. The M(r) 40,000 polypeptide is thus related to pea dehydrin by the presence of the most highly conserved amino acid sequence motifs, but lacks the characteristic expression pattern of dehydrin. By analogy with heat shock cognate proteins we refer to this protein as a dehydrin cognate.
Light activation of the pea (Pisum sativum) elip gene promoter was analysed in transgenic plants and in transiently transfected plant protoplasts. A series of promoter deletions fused to the gusA reporter was tested, and the results obtained by the two experimental approaches were in good agreement. We identified two nucleotide sequence elements involved in light-regulated expression of the elip gene. One element is similar to the GT1 binding site of the rbcS-3A gene, and the other resembles a G-box-like ACGT element. The region containing both elements was able to confer light responsiveness on a heterologous basic promoter. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays demonstrated that each element is specifically recognized by DNA-binding proteins present in nuclear extracts from pea seedlings. The G-box-like ACGT element is necessary but not sufficient for light inducibility, indicating that the two elements act together in confering light responsiveness.
Angiosperms and algae possess two distinct glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) enzymes, an NAD(+)-dependent tetramer involved in cytosolic glycolysis and an NADP(+)-dependent enzyme of the Calvin cycle in chloroplasts. We have found that the gymnosperm Pinus sylvestris possesses, in addition to these, a nuclear-encoded, plastid-specific, NAD(+)-dependent GAPDH, designated GapCp, which has not previously been described from any plant. Several independent full-size cDNAs for this enzyme were isolated which encode a functional transit peptide and mature subunit very similar to that of cytosolic GAPDH of angiosperms and algae. A molecular phylogeny reveals that chloroplast GapCp and cytosolic GapC arose through gene duplication early in chlorophyte evolution. The GapCp gene is expressed as highly as that for GapC in light-grown pine seedlings. These findings suggest that aspects of compartmentalized sugar phosphate metabolism may differ in angiosperms and gymnosperms and furthermore underscore the contributions of endosymbiotic gene transfer and gene duplication to the nuclear complement of genes for enzymes of plant primary metabolism.
Porins are voltage-gated diffusion pores found in all eukaryotic kingdoms. Here we describe, for the first time, the identification and characterization of two cDNAs encoding porins from plants. Peptide sequences obtained from a 30-kDa protein of envelope membranes from pea root plastids allowed the isolation of two cDNA clones from pea and maize. On the protein level, both proteins are homologous by 58%. Sequence comparison against the Swiss-Prot sequence data base revealed a homology of about 25% to mitochondrial porins from fungi and human. Computer-aided predictions of the secondary structure of the plant porins revealed the presence of 16 antiparallel beta-strands that are also found in mitochondrial porins. Porins from non-green plastids and from the outer mitochondrial membrane were reconstituted into planar lipid bilayers. The proteins showed high pore-forming activities and similar single-channel conductances. In vitro translated porin was preferentially imported only into non-green plastids but not into chloroplasts. To our knowledge, this is the first example of selective import of a plastid protein into different types of plastids. This finding is in line with the observation that an immunoreactive 30-kDa band was only found in non-green plastids and mitochondria but not in chloroplasts. We conclude that mitochondria and non-green plastids possess homologous porin proteins, whereas chloroplasts are characterized by a different type of porin.
We have isolated the Pisum sativum (pea) lox1:Ps:3 gene which encodes a lipoxygenase that is 84% identical in coding sequence to the LOX-3 gene from Glycine max (soybean). The 10028 bp sequence includes 5895 bp 5' to the transcription start site and 707 bp 3' to the stop codon. The coding region of lox1:Ps:3 contains eight introns, at positions equivalent to those in the soybean LOX-3 and L-4, the Phaseolus vulgaris (Frenchbean) LOX1, and the Pisum sativum lox1:Ps:2 genes. The first intron is unusually small. The 5'-flanking sequence contains two regions that have the potential to form hairpin structures, but few motifs known to interact with transcription factors. Despite their similarity in terms of expression, the lox1:Ps:3 and lox1:Ps:2 genes have little similarity within their 5'-flanking regions.
The effects of leaf developmental age on the expression of three nuclear gene families in pea (Pisum sativum L.) coding for enzymes of chlorophyll and heme biosynthesis have been examined. The steady-state levels of mRNAs encoding aminolevulinic acid (ALA) dehydratase, porphobilinogen (PBG) deaminase, and NADPH:protochlorophyllide reductase were measured by RNA gel blot and quantitative slot-blot analyses in the foliar leaves of embryos that had imbibed for 12 to 18 h and leaves of developing seedlings grown either in total darkness or under continuous white light for up to 14 d after imbibition. Both ALA dehydratase and PBG deaminase mRNAs were detectable in embryonic leaves, whereas mRNA encoding the NADPH:protochlorophyllide reductase was not observed at this early developmental stage. All three gene products were found to increase to approximately the same extent in the primary leaves of pea seedlings during the first 6 to 8 d after imbibition (postgermination) regardless of whether the plants were grown in darkness or under continuous white-light illumination. In the leaves of dark-grown seedlings, the highest levels of message accumulation were observed at approximately 8 to 10 d postgermination, and, thereafter, a steady decline in mRNA levels was observed. In the leaves of light-grown seedlings, steady-state levels of mRNA encoding the three chlorophyll biosynthetic enzymes were inversely correlated with leaf age, with youngest, rapidly expanding leaves containing the highest message levels. A corresponding increase in the three enzyme protein levels was also found during the early stages of development in the light or darkness; however, maximal accumulation of protein was delayed relative to peak levels of mRNA accumulation. We also found that although protochlorophyllide was detectable in the leaves immediately after imbibition, the time course of accumulation of the phototransformable form of the molecule coincided with NADPH:protochlorophyllide reductase expression. In studies in which dark-grown seedlings of various ages were subsequently transferred to light for 24 and 48 h, the effect of light on changes in steady-state mRNA levels was found to be more pronounced at later developmental stages. These results suggest that the expression of these three genes and likely those genes encoding other chlorophyll biosynthetic pathway enzymes are under the control of a common regulatory mechanism. Furthermore, it appears that not light, but rather as yet unidentified endogenous factors, are the primary regulatory factors controlling gene expression early in leaf development.
Pea cultivars Progress and Nugget have been shown previously to be differentially sensitive with respect to apparent photosynthesis in a short-term exposure to 0.8 microliters/l SO2. One possible contributing factor to the relative insensitivity of apparent photosynthesis of Progress to SO2 is an increase in superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities. We show here that both chloroplastic and cytoplastic Cu,Zn-SOD proteins increased in Progress on exposure to sulfur dioxide whereas both proteins decreased in Nugget. The increase in cytosolic Cu,Zn-SOD protein was greater than that of chloroplastic Cu,Zn-SOD protein. Using a gene-specific probe for the plastid SOD, northern blot analysis revealed an initial decrease in transcript abundance of the chloroplastic Cu,Zn-SOD gene in Progress on exposure to SO2 with an eventual recovery to pre-exposure levels. The transcript levels of the chloroplastic Cu,Zn-SOD decreased in Nugget over the time period of the exposure. These results suggest that a combination of translational and post-translational mechanisms may be involved in SO2-induced changes in cytosolic and plastidic Cu,Zn-SODs in pea.
A pea cDNA clone representing the homologue of the soybean pGmENOD40-1 was isolated and characterized. At the nucleotide level both clones share 55% homology. Strikingly, the homology between the polypeptides derived from the pea and soybean ENOD40 cDNA sequences is only 14%. Despite this low homology Southern analyses revealed that the isolated pea cDNA clone represents the single pea ENOD40. In situ hybridizations showed that at early stages of nodule development and in mature nodules the expression pattern of pea ENOD40 is comparable to that of soybean ENOD40. Although ENOD40 show similar expression patterns in these two nodules, it is questionable whether the putative polypeptides have a similar function, since the homology is very low.
Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis of pea root and root hair proteins revealed the existence of at least 10 proteins present at elevated levels in root hairs. One of these, named RH2, was isolated and a partial amino acid sequence was determined from two tryptic peptides. Using this sequence information oligonucleotides were designed to isolate by PCR an RH2 cDNA clone. In situ hybridization studies with this cDNA clone showed that rh2 is not only expressed in root hairs, but also in root epidermal cells lacking these tubular outgrowths. During post-embryonic development the gene is switched on after the transition of protoderm into epidermis and since rh2 is already expressed in a globular pea embryo in the protoderm at the side attached to the suspensor, we conclude that the expression of rh2 is developmentally regulated. At the amino acid level RH2 is 95% homologous to the pea PR protein I49a. These gene encoding I49a is induced in pea pods upon inoculation with the pathogen Fusarium solani [12]. We postulate that rh2 contributes to a constitutive defence barrier in the root epidermis. A similar role has been proposed for chalcone synthase (CHS) and chitinase, pathogenesis-related protein that are also constitutively present in certain epidermal tissues.
Seeds of Pisum sativum contain a biotinyl polypeptide called SBP65 that behaves as a putative sink for the free vitamin, representing more than 90% of the total protein-bound biotin in mature seeds. A cDNA encoding SBP65 was cloned and sequenced. The deduced primary structure of the protein was confirmed by protein sequencing. Peptide sequencing also indicated binding of the biotin to lysine 103. The biotinylation domain of SBP65 differs markedly from that of presently known biotin enzymes. Molecular analysis of the protein sequence reveals an extremely hydrophilic protein containing several repeated motifs. These properties, as well as the temporal and spatial patterns of expression of this protein, suggest that SBP65 belongs to the LEA (late embryogenesis-abundant) group of proteins.
Part of the 5'-flanking sequence of a pea (Pisum sativum) lipoxygenase (LOX) gene was cloned, after amplification from genomic DNA by inverse polymerase chain reaction. Translational and transcriptional fusions of 818 bp of the 5'-flanking region and its deletion derivatives (-513 and -356) were made to a beta-glucuronidase (GUS)-coding sequence and introduced into tobacco. Analysis of T1 transformants showed that the 818 bp 5'-flanking sequence drove GUS expression in seeds that was temporally regulated in a fashion similar to the accumulation of LOX mRNA in developing pea seeds. Contrary to expectations, however, expression of the 818 bp promoter-GUS fusion was not seed-specific; GUS activity was highest in leaves and also present in stems and, to a lesser extent, roots. Deletion analyses identified the region between -818 and -513 as essential for high-level, temporally regulated expression in seeds and also indicated that the sequence between -513 and -356 plays a negative role in leaf/stem, but not seed, expression. Comparison of translational and transcriptional fusions indicated that the LOX initiation codon was used more efficiently than the GUS initiation codon by the tobacco leaf translational apparatus.
The recently cloned cDNA for pea chloroplast thioredoxin f was used to produce, by PCR, a fragment coding for a protein lacking the transit peptide. This cDNA fragment was subcloned into a pET expression vector and used to transform E. coli cells. After induction with IPTG the transformed cells produce the protein, mainly in the soluble fraction of the broken cells. The recombinant thioredoxin f has been purified and used to raise antibodies and analysed for activity. The antibodies appear to be specific towards thioredoxin f and do not recognize other types of thioredoxin. The recombinant protein could activate two chloroplastic enzymes, namely NADP-dependent malate dehydrogenase (NADP-MDH) and fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase), both using dithiothreitol as a chemical reductant and in a light-reconstituted/thylakoid assay. Recombinant pea thioredoxin f turned out to be an excellent catalyst for NADP-MDH activation, being the more efficient than a recombinant m-type thioredoxin of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and the thioredoxin of E. coli. At the concentrations of thioredoxin used in the target enzyme activation assays only the recombinant thioredoxin f activated the FBPase.
Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae UPM791 induces the synthesis of an [NiFe] hydrogenase in pea (Pisum sativum L.) bacteroids which oxidizes the H2 generated by the nitrogenase complex inside the root nodules. The synthesis of this hydrogenase requires the genes for the small and large hydrogenase subunits (hupS and hupL, respectively) and 15 accessory genes clustered in a complex locus in the symbiotic plasmid. We show here that the bacteroid hydrogenase activity is limited by the availability of nickel to pea plants. Addition of Ni2+ to plant nutrient solutions (up to 10 mg/liter) resulted in sharp increases (up to 15-fold) in hydrogenase activity. This effect was not detected when other divalent cations (Zn2+, Co2+, Fe2+, and Mn2+) were added at the same concentrations. Determinations of the steady-state levels of hupSL-specific mRNA indicated that this increase in hydrogenase activity was not due to stimulation of transcription of structural genes. Immunoblot analysis with antibodies raised against the large and small subunits of the hydrogenase enzyme demonstrated that in the low-nickel situation, both subunits are mainly present in slow-migrating, unprocessed forms. Supplementation of the plant nutrient solution with increasing nickel concentrations caused the conversion of the slow-migrating forms of both subunits into fast-moving, mature forms. This nickel-dependent maturation process of the hydrogenase subunits is mediated by accessory gene products, since bacteroids from H2 uptake-deficient mutants carrying Tn5 insertions in hupG and hupK and in hypB and hypE accumulated the immature forms of both hydrogenase subunits even in the presence of high nickel levels.
Pycnospore germination fluid of Mycosphaerella pinodes, a fungus pathogenic on pea, contains both an elicitor and a suppressor of the accumulation of pisatin, a major phytoalexin of pea. Transcription of the genes encoding key enzymes in the biosynthesis of pisatin, namely PAL (a gene encoding phenylalanine ammonia-lyase) and CHS (a gene encoding chalcone synthase), was shown to be activated upon the treatment of pea epicotyl tissues with the fungal elicitor and suppressed upon treatment with the fungal suppressor. To investigate the mechanisms underlying activation and suppression of plant defense genes by signal molecules secreted by a fungal pathogen and other stresses, such as ultraviolet (UV) light, we constructed chimeric genes composed of the 5'-flanking regions of two members of the PSPAL family (the genes encoding phenylalanine ammonia-lyase in Pisum sativum) fused to a bacterial gene for chloramphenicol acetyltransferase. Then, the cis-regulatory elements necessary for elicitor-mediated activation and suppressor-mediated suppression were examined in pea protoplasts. Functional analysis of 5' nested deletions of PSPAL1 and PSPAL2 suggested that an enhancer-like element is located in the TATA-distal region (-2,196 to -406) in PSPAL2. A cis-acting element(s) responsible for elicitor-mediated activation was found in the TATA-proximal region (-340 to -95 in PSPAL1; -406 to -158 in PSPAL2), in which the consensus sequence motifs known as box 1, box 2 and box 4 [Yamada et al. (1992) Plant Cell Physiol. 33: 715, Lois et al. (1989) EMBO J. 8: 1641] were present in close proximity. Furthermore, both promoters were activated by UV light but were partially suppressed in response to the fungal suppressor.
A tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum L.) gene encoding a precursor of polyphenol oxidase (PPO) was transcribed and translated in vitro. The import, targeting, and processing of the [35S]methionine-labeled precursor protein (pPPO) were studied in isolated chloroplasts. The protein was routed to the thylakoid lumen in two steps. The 67-kD precursor was first imported into the stroma in an ATP-dependent step. It was processed to a 62-kD intermediate by a stromal peptidase. Translocation into the lumen was light dependent and involved processing of the 62-kD to the 59-kD mature form. The mature polypeptide was soluble in the lumen and not bound to thylakoids. This two-step targeting pattern was observed in plastids from a variety of plants including pea (Pisum sativum L.), tomato, and maize (Zea mays L.). The ratio between the intermediate and mature forms observed depended on the plant species, leaf age, growth conditions, and illumination regime to which the plants had been subjected. Cu2+ was not required for pPPO import or processing. Furthermore, low concentrations of Cu2+ (1-5 microM) markedly inhibited the first import step. Tentoxin specifically inhibited pPPO import, leaving the precursor bound to the envelope membrane. The two-step routing of pPPO into chloroplasts, typical of thylakoid lumen proteins, is consistent with the two-domain structure of the transit peptide and appears to be a feature of all plant PPO genes isolated so far. No evidence was found for unorthodox routing mechanisms, which have been suggested to be involved in the import of plant PPOs. The two-step routing may account for some of the multiplicity of PPO observed in vivo.
Previously, it has been shown that a trimer of a 22 bp fragment of the promoter of the seed-specific pea lectin gene confers high expression in seed. Here it is reported that this fragment contains a binding site for the cloned basic domain/leucine zipper (bZIP) proteins TGA1a and Opaque-2 (O2). Gel shift assays, DNasel footprinting and methylation interference assays using purified TGA1a were performed to determine whether additional binding sites are present in the psl promoter. Within the 469 bp upstream region only one other TGA1a binding site was found, which is much weaker than the one present in the 22 bp element. Both O2 and TGA1a bound to the odd base palindromic C-box sequence, ATGAGTCAT, present within the 22 bp fragment. The 22 bp fragment also contains the sequence CACGTA, which contains the ACGT core usually found in binding sites for bZIP proteins. However, this sequence did not significantly contribute to bZIP protein binding. The binding affinity of TGA1a for the odd base palindromic sequence was low relative to a high-affinity C-box (ATGACGTCAT). By contrast, O2 strongly bound to the odd base C-box; the affinity was comparable with that for high-affinity G-(GACACGTGTC) and C-boxes. It is concluded that the presence of an ACGT core sequence is not a prerequisite for high-affinity binding of O2.
The fungus Cochliobolus victoriae, the causal agent of victoria blight of oats, produces the host-specific toxin victorin. Sensitivity of oats to victorin, and thus susceptibility to the fungus, is controlled by a single dominant gene. This gene is believed to also confer resistance to the crown rust pathogen Puccinia coronata. In the case of victoria blight, the gene has been hypothesized to condition susceptibility by encoding a toxin receptor. A 100-kD victorin binding protein (VBP) has been identified; it binds radiolabeled victorin derivatives in a ligand-specific manner and in a genotype-specific manner in vivo. The VBP may function as a toxin receptor. In vitro translation coupled with indirect immunoprecipitation was used to identify the mRNA for the 100-kD VBP, and fractionated mRNAs were used to prepare cDNA libraries enriched in the relative abundance of cDNA for the 100-kD VBP. A 3.4-kb cDNA clone was isolated that, when subjected to a 400-bp 5' deletion, was capable of directing the synthesis of a protein in Escherichia coli, which reacted to an antibody specific for the 100-kD VBP. Peptide mapping, by limited proteolysis, indicated that the protein directed by the cDNA is the 100-kD VBP. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the cDNA revealed extensive homology to a previously cloned cDNA for the P protein component of the multienzyme complex glycine decarboxylase. Glycine decarboxylase is a nuclear-encoded, mitochondrial enzyme complex. Protein gel blot analysis indicated that the 100-kD VBP copurifies with mitochondria. Based on analysis of in vitro translation products, nucleotide sequence homology, mitochondrial localization, and the widespread species distribution of the 100-kD VBP, we concluded that the 100-kD VBP is the P protein component of glycine decarboxylase.
A cDNA clone (TAB2) encoding a nucleoside diphosphate (NDP) kinase has been isolated from a tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. cv. Ailsa Craig) cDNA library. The clone is 590 bp long and exhibits a high degree of sequence identity with spinach NDP kinases I and II, Pisum sativum NDP kinase I, Arabidopsis thaliana NDP kinase, Drosophila melanogaster NDP kinase, Dictyostelium discoideum NDP kinase and human Nm 23-H1 and Nm23-H2. Northern analysis has revealed that the mRNA encoded by TAB2 is up-regulated in both leaf and stem tissue in response to wounding. The increase is apparent within 1 h of wounding and is not further elevated by application of ethylene. Southern blot analysis indicates that TAB2 is a member of a small gene family.
We cloned cDNAs encoding two different pea (Pisum sativum L.) aspartate transcarbamoylases (ATCases) by complementation of an Escherichia coli delta pyrB mutant. The two cDNAs, designated pyrB1 and pyrB2, encode polypeptides of 386 and 385 amino acid residues, respectively, both of which exhibit typical chloroplast transit peptide sequences. Wheat germ ATCase antibody recognizes a 36.5-kD polypeptide in pea leaf and root tissues that is similar in size to other plant ATCase polypeptides and to the catalytic polypeptides of bacterial ATCases. Northern analyses indicate that the pyrB1 and pyrB2 transcripts are 1.6 kb in size and are differentially expressed in pea tissues. The small transcript size and data from biochemical studies indicate that plant ATCases are simple homotrimers of 36- to 37-kD catalytic subunits, rather than part of a multifunctional enzyme containing glutamine-dependent carbamoylphosphate synthetase and dihydroorotase activities, as is seen in other eukaryotes. In the pea ATCases, the carbamoylphosphate- and aspartate-binding domains are highly homologous to those of other prokaryotic and eukaryotic ATCases and critical active-site residues are completely conserved. The pea ATCases also exhibit a putative pyrimidine-binding site, consistent with the known allosteric regulation of plant ATCases by UMP in vitro.
The enzyme carbonic anhydrase (carbonate dehydratase, EC 4.2.1.1) is an abundant soluble protein in the C3 plant chloroplast; however, its function in photosynthetic carbon assimilation is not well defined. In this study we have examined the relationship between carbonic anhydrase (CA) and ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) expression during pea (Pisum sativum) development as well as in various tissues and cultivars. Although absolute levels of activity and transcript abundance for the two proteins can vary considerably during development, a relatively constant ratio of CA to Rubisco transcript abundance and enzyme activity appears to be initiated during greening and maintained in mature and senescing photosynthetic tissue. Various pea cultivars, although exhibiting differing amounts of Rubisco and CA, also appear to maintain an invariant CA:Rubisco ratio. These data are discussed with respect to gene copy number, regulation of expression, and the proposed role of CA in photosynthetic carbon fixation.
We have partially characterized the blue-light-stimulated in vitro phosphorylation of a membrane protein from etiolated Pisum sativum L. stems. Properties of the response have implicated its involvement in signal transduction of phototropic stimuli (T.W. Short, W.R. Briggs [1990] Plant Physiol 92: 179-185; P. Reymond, T.W. Short, W.R. Briggs [1992] Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 89: 4718- 4721). Analysis of proteolysis products and phosphoamino acidanalysis indicate that the substrate protein is phosphorylated on multiple seryl residues. Kinetics of the in vitro reaction show phosphorylation to be complete within 2 to 5 min at 30[deg]C in either light-exposed or dark-control plasma membrane preparations, regardless of whether the membranes were first solubilized in Triton X-100. Nucleotide competition assays show the kinase to be ATP specific. The pH optimum covers a broad range with a maximum near 7.5. A wide array of salts inhibits the phosphorylation at high concentrations, but millimolar concentrations of Mg2+ are required to form Mg.ATP complexes for maximal activity, whereas excess free Mg2+ or Ca2+ are not required for the reaction.
Protein sequence data derived from the N-terminal region of a 17 kDa polypeptide associated with the microsomal membrane fraction from Pisum sativum was used to design degenerate oligonucleotides which were used to amplify P. sativum cDNA via the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Amplified cDNA was used as a probe to screen a P. sativum cDNA library and a cDNA clone, NDK-P1 was isolated and sequenced. The protein encoded by NDK-P1 had a calculated molecular mass of 16,485 Da and possessed substantial homology with nucleoside diphosphate kinases (NDKs) isolated and cloned from other sources. High levels of expression of NDK-P1 protein were achieved in Escherichia coli using a T7-driven expression system. Recombinant NDK-P1 protein was shown to possess NDK activity and had similar biochemical characteristics to NDKs isolated from other sources. The Michaelis constants for a variety of nucleoside diphosphate (NDP) substrates were found to be broadly similar to those reported for other NDKs, with thymidine nucleotides being the substrates of greatest affinity.
To understand the processes that control Fe transport to developing seeds, we have characterized seed growth and Fe accretion and have developed a radiotracer technique for quantifying phloem Fe loading in vegetative source regions of Pisum sativum. In hydroponically grown plants of cv Sparkle, developing ovules exhibited a seed-growth period of 22 d, with Fe import occurring throughout the 22-d period. Average Fe content of mature seeds was 19 [mu]g. Source tissues of intact plants were abraded and pulse labeled for 4 h with 100 [mu]M 59Fe(III)-citrate. Fe was successfully phloem loaded and transported to seeds from leaflets, stipules, and pod walls. Total export of 59Fe from labeled source regions was used to calculate tissue-loading rates of 36, 40, and 51 pmol of Fe cm-2 h-1 for the leaflet, stipule, and pod wall surfaces, respectively. By comparison, surface area measurements, along with seed-growth results, allowed us to calculate average theoretical influx values of 42 or 68 pmol of Fe cm-2 h-1 for vegetative tissues at nodes with one or two pods, respectively. Additional studies with the regulatory pea mutant, E107 (a single-gene mutant of cv Sparkle that can overaccumulate Fe), enabled us to increase Fe delivery endogenously to the vegetative tissues. A 36-fold increase in Fe content of E107 leaves, relative to Sparkle, resulted in no increase in Fe content of E107 seeds. Based on these findings, we hypothesized that Fe is phloem loaded in a chelated form, and the expression/synthesis of the endogenous chelator is an important factor in the control of Fe transport to the seeds.
A partial cDNA, isolated from an early developing pea (Pisum sativum L.) embryo library, was found to encode a plant homologue of the regulatory subunit (PR65) of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A). Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with a human PR65 sequence showed that the regulatory subunit of PP2A has been highly conserved during evolution. Southern analysis demonstrated that in pea and rape the catalytic and regulatory subunits of PP2A are encoded by multigene families. The levels of the transcripts encoding each subunit are developmentally regulated during pea embryogenesis and expression of the regulatory subunit is not solely restricted to the embryo.
The coding region of the 2S albumin gene of Brazil nut (Bertholletia excelsa H.B.K.) was completely synthesized, placed under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter and inserted into the binary vector plasmid pGSGLUC1, thus giving rise to pGSGLUC1-2S. This was used for transformation of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. Petit Havanna) and of the grain legume Vicia narbonensis L., mediated by the supervirulent Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA 101. Putative transformants were selected by screening for neomycin phosphotransferase (NPT II) and beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activities. Transgenic plants were grown until flowering and fruiting occurred. The presence of the foreign gene was confirmed by Southern analysis. GUS activity was found in all organs of the regenerated transgenic tobacco and legume plants, including the seeds. In the legume, the highest expression levels of the CaMV 35S promoter-controlled 2S albumin gene were observed in leaves and roots. 2S albumin was localized in the vacuoles of leaf mesophyll cells of transgenic tobacco. The Brazil nut protein was present in the 2S fraction after gel filtration chromatography of the legume seed proteins and could be clearly identified by immunoblotting. Analysis of seeds from the R2 progenies of the legume and of transgenic tobacco plants revealed Mendelian inheritance of the foreign gene. Agrobacterium rhizogenes strain RifR 15834 harbouring the binary vector pGSGLUC1-2S was also used to transform Pisum sativum L. and Vicia faba L. Hairy roots expressed the 2S albumin-specific gene. Several shoots were raised but they never completely rooted and no fertile plants were obtained from these transformants.
The PDA1 promoter of the phytopathogenNectria haematococca MPVI (anamorph Fusarium solani) offers a model for regulation of a fungal virulence gene in response to plant host-specific signals. Expression of the PDA1 gene, encoding pisatin demethylase, is induced in culture by pisatin, the isoflavanoid phytoalexin of pea. This pisatin induction is suppressed by nutritional factors. We have been studying the mechanism of pisatin induction through in vitro identification of regulatory factors and regulatory elements of the PDA1 promoter. We have developed an in vitro transcription system for N. haematococca which accurately initiates at the PDA1 promoter and reflects the pisatin induction of PDA1 mRNA observed in vivo. This in vitro activity allowed a functional test of a limited set of 5' upstream deletions in the PDA1 promoter. In vitro binding studies have identified a DNA binding factor which is appears in mycelial extract after treatment of the mycelium with pisatin. This pisatin-responsive factor binds to a minimum size region of 35 bp approximately 500 bp upstream of the transcription initiation site. Tests using the in vitro transcription assay and in vivo competition both indicate a role for this binding region in the high expression of PDA1 under pisatin-induced conditions. Southwestern blotting has identified one component of this binding activity to be a approximately 35 kDa protein. The availability of these functional and structural tests of function, in conjunction with complementary in vivo tests, allow the detailed dissection of the signal pathway leading from exposure of the cell to pisatin towards the activation of PDA1 transcription.
Many classes of bacterial and plant glycoconjugate have been shown to be involved in establishing the Rhizobium root nodule symbiosis with peas (Pisum sativum). It was demonstrated, using techniques of molecular genetics, that a group of Rhizobium nodulation genes (nod genes) co-operate to synthesize a lipo-oligosaccharide signal molecule that specifically initiates nodule development on legume hosts. An additional gene function, encoded by nodX, has been found to extend the host range of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae to include nodulation of a pea mutant, cultivar Afghanistan; the nodX gene product specifies the addition of an acetyl group to the terminal N-acetylglucosamine residue at the reducing end of the pentasaccharide core of this signal molecule. Several other classes of bacterial glycoconjugate have also been shown by genetic analysis to be essential for normal nodule development and function: these include a capsular extracellular polysaccharide; lipopolysaccharide in the outer membrane; and cyclic glucans present in the periplasmic space. Potential functions for these glycoconjugates are discussed in the context of tissue and cell invasion by Rhizobium. Some plant components involved in symbiotic interactions have been identified by the analysis of nodule-specific gene expression (early nodulins). Several of the cDNA clones encoding these early nodulins specify proline-rich proteins that presumably correspond to cell wall glycoproteins or membrane arabinogalactan proteins. Other plant glycoconjugates have been identified using monoclonal antibodies as probes. A plant glycoprotein present in intercellular spaces has been identified as a component of the luminal matrix of infection threads. Because it attaches to the surface of bacteria and is itself susceptible to oxidative cross-linking, this glycoprotein may be involved in limiting the progress of microbial infections. Endocytosis of bacteria into the plant cytoplasm is apparently driven by direct interactions between the bacterial surface and the plasma membrane that is exposed within an unwalled infection droplet; glycoprotein and glycolipid components of the plant membrane glycocalyx have been defined using monoclonal antibodies. Differentiation of endosymbiotic bacteroids is preceded by differentiation of the plant-derived peribacteroid membrane which encloses the symbiosome compartment. Using a monoclonal antibody that identifies a group of plant membrane-associated, inositol-containing glycolipids, we have identified a very early marker for the differentiation of peribacteroid membrane from plasma membrane.
To correlate a prokaryotic endosymbiont in the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon kondoi, with the endosymbionts in related aphid species as well as with free-living bacteria and subcellular organelles, and to study the mode of its gene expression within aphid cells, we have cloned and characterized the genes encoding ribosomal proteins S3, L16, L29, S17, L14, L24, L5, S14, S8, L6, L18, S5, L30, L15 and secretion protein Y (Sec Y) from the S10 and spc ribosomal protein gene operons of this endosymbiont. The organization of these genes is identical to that in Escherichia coli, and their nucleotide sequences are highly similar (87% identity) to the corresponding E. coli genes. They are much less similar to the corresponding chloroplast and mitochondrial genes. The guanine plus cytosine G+C content of the genes of the A. kondoi endosymbiont is much higher than those of the endosymbionts in related aphid species reported so far. It appears either that the A. kondoi endosymbiont is derived from an ancestral bacterium different from those in other aphids or that its G+C content increased in a relatively short time after the evolutionary divergence of its host.
Two early auxin-inducible genes (PS-IAA4/5 and PSIAA6) from pea were cloned using previously isolated complementary DNA sequences. They are present in single copy per haploid genome, and are members of a large divergent multigene family that encodes similar proteins. The genes were structurally characterized and sequence analysis of their 5'-flanking regions revealed the presence of several highly conserved sequences found in various auxin-regulated genes from other plant species. Their coding regions are interrupted by three and two introns, respectively. Introns two and three of PS-IAA4/5 and introns one and two of PS-IAA6 are located in identical positions. These genes encode proteins of 189 (21,036 Da) and 179 (20,330 Da) residues that are 46% identical. They also share a significant degree of identity (42 to 80%) with other proteins encoded by auxin regulated genes in soybean, mungbean and Arabidopsis thaliana. All proteins contain four conserved domains ranging in size from 9 to 43 amino acids. Their most prominent feature is the presence of a highly charged N terminus consisting of two clusters of acidic residues separated by a cluster of basic amino acids.
The plant hormone auxin transcriptionally activates early genes in pea. We have developed a transient assay system using protoplasts of auxin-responsive pea seedling cells to define the auxin-responsive element, AuxRE, of the early auxin-induced PS-IAA4/5 gene. The auxin responsive protoplasts show an authentic hormonal response identical to that observed in intact pea tissue, with respect to rapidity, specificity and cycloheximide (CHX) inducibility of the PS-IAA4/5 transcript. The hormone also mediates rapid and specific induction of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) activity in protoplasts transfected with a chimeric IAA4/5-CAT gene. The IAA-induced CAT activity is developmentally regulated and is observed only in protoplasts derived from auxin-responsive regions of the pea seedling. Extensive deletion analysis of the PS-IAA4/5 promoter defined a promoter region between -318 and -154 that confers auxin inducibility. This AuxRE mediates auxin-inducible CAT activity in pea cells driven by the non auxin-responsive CaMV 35S minimal promoter. The functionality of this promoter region as an AuxRE was further verified in tobacco plants using IAA4/5-GUS gene fusions. The AuxRE contains two domains: Domain A acts as an auxin switch; domain B has an enhancer-like activity. The A and B domains contain the highly conserved sequences found in various auxin-regulated genes (T/GGT-CCCAT (domain A) and C/AACATGGNC/AA/GTGTT/CT/CC/A (domain B)). DNase I footprinting reveals binding of nuclear proteins to the highly conserved sequence found in A and B domains. The sequence of the A domain does not correspond to any known regulatory elements found in other eukaryotic genes, and the data suggest that this conserved motif functions as an AuxRE. A model for the early transcriptional activation of the PS-IAA4/5 gene by IAA is discussed.
Chloroplast NADP-dependent malate dehydrogenase is regulated by a dithiol redox reaction. The assignment of the groups involved, requires the primary structure of the enzyme to be known. Using the polymerase chain reaction and the cDNA library of Pisum sativum, the sequence of the enzyme and its targeting signal was determined. The gene was cloned in Escherichia coli JM83 and expressed in E. coli JM83 and E. coli B at high yield. The determination of the physical properties of the gene product proves the recombinant protein to be indistinguishable from the enzyme purified from the plant. This holds true, in spite of the fact that the plant enzyme lacks 11 N-terminal residues. The lengths of the complete polypeptide chain of the recombinant enzyme and its transit peptide are 388 and 53 residues, respectively. The comparison of the sequences of the mature enzyme with those of known chloroplast NADP-MDH shows 83-95% identity, but with mitochondrial or bacterial MDH only approximately 20%. Reduction of the (inactive) oxidized enzyme with dithiothreitol allows mimicking of the in vivo activation. The reaction follows a consecutive second-order-kinetics mechanism. Guanidinium chloride (GdmCl) at concentrations below 0.4 M leads to a significant activation of the oxidized form of the enzyme. At [GdmCl] = 0.4-0.46 M, both oxidized and reduced NADP-MDH show highly cooperative changes in the hydrodynamic and spectral properties, indicating the synchronous breakdown of the quaternary, tertiary and secondary structures. Site-directed mutations C23A and C28A do not quench the regulatory properties of the enzyme; additional substitution of alanine for Cys206 and Cys376 renders the enzyme equally active in both the reduced and the oxidized state. Therefore, one can consider these residues, either alone or in combination with Cys23 and Cys28, as responsible for enzyme activation.
To define the early stages of the interaction between Rhizobium and host legumes, we have cloned and characterized three early nodulin-encoding sequences from an alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) cDNA library by probing with a fragment of a cDNA clone for PsENOD12, an infection-related nodulin from pea (Pisum sativum L.). Although the coding regions of the three clones are 95 to 98% homologous to each other, they are only 43% homologous to the pea clone. However, the putative signal peptide encoded by the alfalfa cDNA clones is 100% homologous to the PsENDO12 signal peptide. The spatial and temporal expression patterns of PsENOD12 and the alfalfa clones were compared. In situ hybridization experiments detected RNA transcripts in the invasion zone of mature nitrogen-fixing nodules, the same site where PsENOD12 mRNAs are found. Transcripts were also found by in situ hybridization in cells of Rhizobium meliloti exoH mutant-induced nodules penetrated by infection threads, but northern analysis did not detect transcripts in inf- (infection thread minus) nodules elicited by R. meliloti exoB nodules or in pseudonodules elicited by treatment with the auxin transport inhibitor N-1-(naphthyl)phthalamic acid. In addition, the alfalfa gene represented by these cDNA clones exhibited a temporal expression pattern that differed from that of PsENOD12, which is transiently expressed. These data, plus information derived from Southern blot analysis, indicate that we have isolated cDNA clones for a novel early nodulin, which we have designated MsENOD10 (Medicago sativa Early Nodulin 10).
The glutamine synthetase (GS) gene family of Medicago truncatula Gaertn. contains three genes related to cytosolic GS (MtGSa, MtGSb, and MtGSc), although one of these (MtGSc) appears not to be expressed. Sequence analysis suggests that the genes are more highly conserved interspecifically rather than intraspecifically: MtGSa and MtGSb are more similar to their homologs in Medicago sativa and Pisum sativum than to each other. Studies in which gene-specific probes are used show that both MtGSa and MtGSb are induced during symbiotic root nodule development, although not coordinately. MtGSa is the most highly expressed GS gene in nodules but is also expressed to lower extents in a variety of other organs. MtGSb shows higher levels of expression in roots and the photosynthetic cotyledons of seedlings than in nodules or other organs. In roots, both genes are expressed in the absence of an exogenous nitrogen source. However the addition of nitrate leads to a short-term, 2- to 3-fold increase in the abundance of both mRNAs, and the addition of ammonium leads to a 2-fold increase in MtGSb mRNA. The nitrogen supply, therefore, influences the expression of the two genes in roots, but it is clearly not the major effector of their expression. In the discussion section, the expression of the GS gene family of the model legume M. truncatula is compared to those of other leguminous plants.
Porphobilinogen (PBG) deaminase catalyzes the polymerization of four PBG monopyrrole units into the linear tetrapyrrole hydroxymethylbilane necessary for the formation of chlorophyll and heme in plant cells. Degenerate oligonucleotide primers were designed based on amino acid sequence data (generated by mass spectrometry) for purified PBG deaminase from pea (Pisum sativum L.) chloroplasts. These primers were used in TaqI polymerase-catalyzed polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification to produce partial cDNA and nuclear genomic fragments encoding the enzyme. Subsequently, a 1.6-kb cDNA was isolated by screening a cDNA library constructed in lambda gt11 from leaf poly(A)+ RNA with the PCR products. The cDNA encodes an approximately 40-kD polypeptide containing a 46-amino acid NH2-terminal transit peptide and a mature protein of 323 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence of the mature pea enzyme is similar to PBG deaminases from other species and contains the conserved arginine and cysteine residues previously implicated in catalysis. Northern blot analysis indicates that the pea gene encoding PBG deaminase is expressed to varying levels in chlorophyll-containing tissues and is subject to light induction.
We have investigated the position of the 5 S gene clusters in the nuclei of Pisum sativum root tip cells, and of their transcripts in the nucleolus, using in situ hybridization and confocal microscopy. Single-stranded RNA probes were produced by in vitro transcription, incorporating fluorescein or digoxygenin label. There are known to be 3 pairs of 5 S gene clusters in this species, which would be expected to give 6 sites of hybridization in G1 cells and 12 sites in G2 cells. In presumed G2 cells, many of the sites appeared as paired spots very close together, which we interpret as the sites on sister chromatids. A clear association of one or more clusters with the nucleolar periphery was observed, and it is possible that this has a functional significance. The transcript labelling within the nucleolus showed a reproducible and highly ordered pattern, consisting of cavities devoid of transcript labelling surrounded by sheets of bright labelling, making a characteristic and often very symmetrical cage-work structure. This labelling pattern may represent an underlying organization of transcript processing within the nucleolus, and is highly reminiscent of the distribution of a previously described nucleolar matrix protein.
A full-length cDNA clone (pTIP27) encoding asparagine synthetase (AS; EC 6.3.5.4) was isolated from a cDNA library prepared from the tip section (apex to 30 mm) of Asparagus officinalis L. spears. The cDNA clone encodes an mRNA of 1978 bp, giving a derived protein of 66.5 kD molecular mass. The derived amino acid sequence is 81% homologous to AS from Pisum sativum. Only low levels of transcript for AS could be detected in growing spears, roots, or ferns. However, AS mRNA levels began to increase in the tips of harvested spears after 2 h at 20 degrees C, and in the other sections of the spear after 4 h, suggesting that all sections of the spear were responding to the same postharvest signal. The results are discussed in relation to metabolic changes occurring in harvested spears.
We examined the effect of light on the mRNA levels of 11 genes (pra1-pra9A, pra9B, and pra9C) encoding the small GTP-binding proteins that belong to the ras superfamily in Pisum sativum. When the dark-grown seedlings were exposed to continuous white light for 24 hr, the levels of several pra mRNAs in the pea buds decreased: pra2 and pra3 mRNAs decreased markedly; pra4, pra6, and pra9A mRNAs decreased slightly; the other 6 pra mRNAs did not decrease. We studied the kinetics of mRNA accumulation for pra2, pra3, and pra9B in detail during white light illumination and compared them with those of the phytochrome gene and the small subunit gene of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase: mRNA levels of pra2 and pra3 decreased in a manner similar to that of phytochrome while that of the small subunit increased as was expected. The decreases were triggered by a 2-min monochromatic red light (660 nm) irradiation. The effect of red light was reversed by subsequent exposure to far-red light, indicating an involvement of phytochrome as a photoreceptor in this light-regulated event. This work reports negative regulation of mRNA levels of small GTP-binding proteins by light, mediated by phytochrome.
The invertase (EC 3.2.1.26) purified from cell walls of dwarf pea stems to homogeneity has a molecular mass of 64 kilodaltons (kD). Poly(A)+RNA was isolated from shoots of dwarf pea plants, and a cDNA library was constructed using lambda gt11 as an expression vector. The expression cDNA library was screened with polyclonal antibodies against pea cell wall invertase. One invertase cDNA clone was characterized as a full-length cDNA with 1,863 base pairs. Compared with other known invertases, one homologous region in the amino acid sequence was found. The conserved motif, Asn-Asp-Pro-Asn-Gly, is located near the N-terminal end of invertase. Northern blot analysis showed that the amount of invertase mRNA (1.86 kb) was rapidly induced to a maximal level 4 h after GA3 treatment, then gradually decreased to the control level. The mRNA level at 4 h in GA3-treated peas was fivefold higher than that of the control group. The maximal increase in activity of pea cell wall invertase elicited by GA3 occcured at 8 h after GA3 treatment. This invertase isoform was shown immunocytochemically to be localized in the cell walls, where a 10-fold higher accumulation occurred in GA3-treated tissue compared with control tissue. This study indicates that the expression of the pea shoot cell-wall invertase gene could be regulated by GA3 at transcriptional and/or translational levels.
Several strains of the broad bean mottle virus (BBMV), an icosahedral tripartite plant RNA virus, which show distinct reactions on certain plant hosts have been described (K. M. Makkouk et al., Neth. J. Plant Pathol. 94, 195-212, 1988). Here we report defective interfering (DI) RNAs encapsidated in two BBMV strains from Morocco and Tunisia. While not effective in some plants, these DI RNAs exacerbated the severity of symptoms in others. The most dramatic, lethal effect of DI RNAs has been found on pea (Pisum sativum, cv. Rondo) seedlings. Sequence analysis has revealed that the DI RNAs were derived by single in-frame central deletions of 448 to 537 nt in the corresponding genomic RNA2 components. A comparison of the intensities of full-length RNA2 bands from DI molecule-containing and DI molecule-deficient virion RNA preparations revealed that the DI RNAs decreased the level of RNA2 components in total RNA preparations. The differences between corresponding virion RNAs were much smaller. This suggests an interference with RNA replication. In vitro assays and an analysis of the polyribosomal RNA fractions confirmed the translational activity of DI RNAs. This paper reports the first description of natural DI RNAs in tripartite isometric plant RNA viruses.
It was previously shown that a 1.5 kb fragment located in the non-transcribed spacer (NTS) is the earliest replicating region of pea (Pisum sativum) rDNA in synchronized root cells. In the present report the structure of this region was characterized. It contains a cluster of four 11 bp near matches to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae ARS consensus sequence (ACS). These near matches are embedded in an A+T rich domain located upstream from the transcription initiation site. We identified and mapped an intrinsic DNA bending locus 5' to the cluster of near matches. Several eukaryotic origins including the ARS from the budding yeast show very similar structural features. This observation strengthens the notion that pea rDNA replication initiates at or near this region. Replication of the entire pea rDNA repeat was analysed by two-dimensional (2D) agarose gel electrophoresis. The results obtained indicate that only a small fraction of the potential origins is used in each replication round. Forks moving in the direction opposite to rRNA transcription are stalled at a polar replication fork barrier (RFB), which mapped near the 3' end of the transcription unit. Consequently, most of pea rDNA appears to replicate in a unidirectional manner. These results show that the strategy used to replicate pea and yeast rRNA genes is very similar, suggesting that it has been conserved and might be common to most eukaryotes.
We report the isolation of a turgor-responsive gene of pea, trg-31, whose transcription induced within 30 min after the loss of leaf turgor. Structure of the coding region and 1.4 kb of 5' untranslated region was determined by DNA sequencing. A 3 kb promoter fragment from trg-31 was fused to a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in pBI101, tobacco leaf disks and mature plants analyzed for turgor-responsive induction of GUS mRNA. Significant amino acid sequence homology exists between trg-31 and putative transport proteins of bovine, Phaseolus, soybean and Escherichia coli membranes.
To analyze the regulation of defense-related genes by signal molecules produced by phytopathogens, we isolated genes that encode chalcone synthase (CHS) in Pisum sativum. We have obtained seven independent genomic clones that contain at least seven classes of CHS genes, identified by the hybridization analysis to CHS cDNA and by the restriction mapping analysis. Two of the genomic clones (clone 5 and 6) each contain two CHS genes in a tandem repeat. The nucleotide sequence analysis of CHS genomic clone 5 revealed that PsCHS1 and PsCHS2 were corresponding genes of the CHS cDNA clones, pCC6 and pCC2, respectively, as reported earlier. Both genes are interrupted by a single intron of 88 nucleotides with identical sequences, although exonic sequences and 5'-flanking sequences are divergent. Nucleotide sequences of the introns in five other classes of CHS genes showed that three classes had an intron of 87 nt with a striking homology to each other, but that the intron of the other two classes of CHS genes showed heterogeneity both in size and nucleotide sequence. 5'-upstream regions of PsCHS1 and PsCHS2 did not show sequence homology except the 31 bp identical sequence that contains the CCTACC motif resembling the box-1 sequence. Both PsCHS1 and PsCHS2 genes are shown to be induced by fungal elicitor by a primer extension analysis and a transient transformation analysis using pea protoplasts prepared from suspension cultured-cells.
Phosphorylation of a polypeptide of approximately 120 kD in pea (Pisum sativum L.) plasma membranes in response to blue light has been shown to be involved in phototropic curvature, but the relationship of this protein to the kinase and photoreceptor acting upon it is uncertain. Using two-phase aqueous partitioning to isolate right-side-out plasma membrane vesicles, we have obtained evidence suggesting that the photoreceptor, kinase, and substrate are localized to the plasma membrane fraction. Latent phosphorylation accessible through Triton X-100 or freeze/thaw treatments of purified plasma membrane vesicles indicates that at least the kinase moiety is present on the internal face of the plasma membrane. Effects of solubilization of vesicles on fluence-response characteristics and on phosphorylation levels provide evidence that the receptor, kinase, and protein substrate are present together in individual mixed detergent micelles, either as a stable complex or as domains of a single polypeptide. In vivo blue-light irradiation results in a small but significant decrease in mobility of the 120-kD phosphorylated protein on sodium dodecylsulfate gel electrophoresis. This mobility shift is evident on Coomassie-stained gels and on western blots probed with polyclonal antibodies raised against the 120-kD protein. Among the plasma membrane proteins bound to the reactive nucleotide analog fluorosulfonylbenzoyladenine (FSBA), a distinct protein band at 120 kD can be detected on blots probed with anti-FSBA antibodies. This band exhibits an in vivo light-dependent mobility shift identical to that observed for the protein band and antibodies specific for the 120-kD protein, implying that the 120-kD protein has an integral nucleotide binding site and consistent with the possibility that the substrate protein is also a kinase.
Efforts to identify cDNA clones encoding chloroplastic envelope membrane proteins of Pisum sativum L. led to the isolation of a clone encoding a 92 kDa protein found in both the inner envelope membrane and the soluble fraction of chloroplasts. Sequential transcription and translation from the insert of this clone yielded a 102 kDa protein that could be imported into chloroplasts and processed to a 92 kDa form. Although the protein was identified because it reacted with antibodies to chloroplastic envelope proteins, the imported 92 kDa protein was recovered primarily in the soluble fraction of chloroplasts. The deduced amino acid sequence of this protein has strong similarity to the Clp proteins, a recently described family of highly conserved proteins present in all organisms examined to date. The physiological significance of the presence of this protein in chloroplasts is discussed.
Protein farnesyltransferase is a heterodimeric enzyme that attaches a farnesyl moiety to C-terminal cysteine residues. Both the alpha and beta subunits have recently been cloned and sequenced from yeast and rat. Degenerate oligonucleotides, corresponding to conserved regions of the beta subunit, were used as primers for the polymerase chain reaction to amplify cDNA synthesized from total cellular RNA from the apical buds of pea (Pisum sativum L.) seedlings. The 171-bp fragment obtained encodes an open reading frame of 57 amino acids showing 65% identity to the rat protein farnesyltransferase beta subunit. Using this fragment to screen a pea cDNA library, one full-length cDNA clone, designated PsFTb, was obtained that contains an open reading frame encoding a polypeptide of 419 amino acids. The predicted amino acid sequence exhibits 48 and 40% identity to the rat and yeast beta subunits, respectively, indicating that this cDNA encodes a pea homolog of the beta subunit of farnesyltransferase. Gel blot hybridizations show that PsFTb is likely to be encoded by a single-copy gene and is expressed as a transcript of approximately 1.7 kb. During photoregulated leaf development in continuous white light, PsFTb transcript levels within apical buds decline by approximately 5-fold.
RNA-binding proteins are known to mediate the post-transcriptional regulation of genes in many organisms. Recently they have been found to be important in the expression of plastid genes. We have purified a group of three single-stranded nucleic-acid-specific acidic proteins (33, 30 and 28 kDa) from chloroplast extracts of pea (Pisum sativum L.), using single-stranded DNA affinity chromatography. All of them have acidic amino termini but the amino acid sequences are unique to each polypeptide, with partial similarities to the recently reported ribonucleoproteins from tobacco chloroplasts. The pea proteins are also antigenically distinct, as shown by Western blot analysis using polyclonal antisera for purified proteins. Further, from their large nucleic-acid-binding domains and the polynucleotide substrate affinities, they are predicted to belong to a family of pea plastid ribonucleoproteins. In vivo radiolabeling of proteins in the presence of translational inhibitors as well as in vitro translation of leaf tissue RNA suggest that these proteins are encoded in the nucleus. Antibody cross-reactivity experiments reveal that their genes are conserved during plastid evolution.
Eggplant mosaic virus (EMV) and ononis yellow mosaic virus (OYMV) are two tymoviruses that have ssRNA genomes of about 6.2 kb and 6.3 kb, and which infect solanaceous and leguminous hosts, respectively. Full-length cDNA clones of these viruses were constructed with a T7 promoter adjacent to the 5' terminus of the DNA copy of the viral genome, and with unique restriction endonuclease sites at the 3' terminus. This allowed RNA to be transcribed from the DNA encoding the genome. The transcript RNA was infectious when inoculated to Nicotiana glutinosa (for EMV) and Pisum sativum (for OYMV). These clones, together with clones of turnip yellow mosaic tymovirus, which infects brassicas, have been used to construct hybrids in which the virion protein gene was exchanged between EMV or OYMV and turnip yellow mosaic virus. These and other hybrids are being used to investigate the molecular basis for host range differences in tymoviruses.
Restriction fragment length polymorphisms have been used to determine the chromosomal location of the genes encoding the glycine decarboxylase complex (GDC) and serine hydroxymethyltransferase (SHMT) of pea leaf mitochondria. The genes encoding the H subunit of GDC and the genes encoding SHMT both show linkage to the classical group I marker i. In addition, the genes for the P protein of GDC show linkage to the classic group I marker a. The genes for the L and T proteins of GDC are linked to one another and are probably situated on the satellite of chromosome 7. The mRNAs encoding the five polypeptides that make up GDC and SHMT are strongly induced when dark-grown etiolated pea seedlings are placed in the light. Similarly, when mature plants are placed in the dark for 48 h, the levels of both GDC protein and SHMT mRNAs decline dramatically and then are induced strongly when these plants are returned to the light. During both treatments a similar pattern of mRNA induction is observed, with the mRNA encoding the P protein of GDC being the most rapidly induced and the mRNA for the H protein the slowest. Whereas during the greening of etiolated seedlings the polypeptides of GDC and SHMT show patterns of accumulation similar to those of the corresponding mRNAs, very little change in the level of the polypeptides is seen when mature plants are placed in the dark and then re-exposed to the light.
In a search for plant genes expressed during early symbiotic interactions between Medicago sativa and Rhizobium meliloti, we have isolated and characterized two alfalfa genes which have strong sequence similarity to members of the Enod12 gene family of Pisum sativum. The M. sativa genes, MsEnod12A and B, encode putative protein products of 8066 Da and 12849 Da, respectively, each with a signal sequence at the N-terminus followed by a repetitive proline-rich region. Based on their expression during the initial period of nodule development, MsEnod12A and B are alfalfa early nodulin genes.
A number of early nodulin genes are expressed in specific cell types as pea (Pisum sativum) root nodules develop. The Pisum sativum early nodulin PsENOD2 is detected only in the uninfected cells of the nodule parenchyma, whereas PsENOD12 is expressed at two spatially removed sites: in root hairs and adjacent cortical cells, both of which can be invaded by Rhizobium entering through infection threads, and in derivatives of newly divided root inner cortical cells that establish the nodule primordium. We tested whether Rhizobium infection is required for triggering PsENOD12 gene expression by inducing nodule-like structures on Afghanistan pea roots with the auxin transport inhibitor N-(1-naphthyl)phthalamic acid (NPA). These nodule-like structures lack infection threads but resemble Rhizobium-induced nodules in other aspects. For one, both PsENOD2 and PsENOD12 transcripts were detected in these structures. PsENOD2 mRNA was localized by in situ hybridization to a zone equivalent to the nodule parenchyma of Rhizobium-induced nodules, whereas PsENOD12 transcripts were detected in a group of cells comparable to the nodule primordium of developing nodules. In addition, PsENOD12 mRNA was detected in uninfected root hairs 48 h after NPA treatment. These results indicate that infection is not a trigger for PsENOD12 gene expression in Afghanistan pea and rather suggest that the expression of the PsENOD2 and PsENOD12 genes is correlated with the differentiation of specific cell types in the developing nodule.
NADPH: protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase (pchlide reductase, EC 1.6.99.1) catalyzes the light-dependent reduction of protochlorophyllide in higher plants. Cloned cDNAs encoding two distinct pchlide reductases were isolated from a lambda gt11 library constructed from poly(A)+ RNA prepared from the cotyledons of dark-grown white pine (Pinus strobus) seedlings and a nuclear gene (lpcr) analogous to one of these cDNAs has been characterized from loblolly pine (P. taeda). The pine gene encodes an approximately 43 kDa precursor polypeptide consisting of a 334-amino acid mature protein and a 66-amino acid transit peptide. The deduced primary structures for the pine proteins are highly homologous to those reported from monocots and dicots. The coding portion of the pine lpcr gene is interrupted by four introns. The placement of these introns within the pine lpcr gene is identical to that observed in pea (Pisum sativum), suggesting conservation in gene organization between dicot and gymnosperm species. Western blot analysis using polyclonal antiserum against oat pchlide reductase detected in extracts of dark-grown pine cotyledons a single immunoreactive protein, which declined in abundance during a 48 h period of illumination with white light. Cotyledons of dark-grown seedlings were also found to accumulate high levels of pchlide reductase mRNA; however, little or no change in the steady-state levels of mRNA encoding pchlide reductase was observed in these tissues following illumination. Stem tissue of dark-grown seedlings did not contain significant levels of pchlide reductase mRNA, whereas stems of light-grown plants of the same age accumulated substantial amounts of the message. These results suggest that light and the developmental age of the tissue affect regulation of lpcr expression in pine.
Higher-order packaging of DNA in chromatin structures could be an essential step in the complex chain of events leading to activation/repression of eukaryotic gene expression. With the goal to investigate this aspect of transcriptional regulation of plant genes involved in symbiotic interactions between legumes and rhizobia we analyze here the molecular parameters of chromatin structure in functioning root nodules, callus and radicles of pea. Morphological intactness and the typical nucleosomal organization are preserved in purified nuclei isolated from all three sources. The calculated values of nucleosomal repeat changed from 185 +/- 5 bp in the nuclei of radicles to 168 +/- 5 bp and 195 +/- 6 bp in nodules and callus respectively. The observed changes are due to alterations in linker DNA lengths. The core histones are identical in all cases, but the subfractional composition of H1 linker histone is subjected to quantitative alterations. The most pronounced is the several-fold increase in content of the lowest-molecular-weight subfraction H1-6 which takes place during nodule development.
The PsMTA gene from pea (Pisum sativum) shares similarity with metallothionein (MT) genes and related sequences have also been isolated from a number of other higher-plant species. The proteins encoded by these genes have not yet been purified from plants and their functions remain unclear although, by analogy to MT, roles in the metabolism and detoxification of metal ions have been proposed. By contrast, correlation between transcript abundance and Fe availability has led to an alternative proposal that these genes are involved in mechanisms of Fe efficiency. Phenotypic effects of constitutive PsMTA expression were examined in Escherichia coli and Arabidopsis thaliana. Copper accumulation by E. coli cells expressing recombinant PsMTA protein was approximately 8-fold greater than in control cells. No significant effects on the accumulation of Zn or Cd were detected. In segregating A. thaliana progeny, derived from a transgenic F1 parent containing the PsMTA gene under the control of a CaMV 35S promoter, 75% of individuals accumulated more Cu (several-fold in some plants) than untransformed, control plants. These data suggest that PsMTA protein binds Cu in planta and that uncoupled (constitutive) expression of the PsMTA gene causes enhanced Cu accumulation. Roots of P. sativum plants grown under conditions of low Fe availability showed elevated activity of root surface Fe(III) reductase and accumulated more Cu than roots of plants grown in an Fe-supplemented solution. Changes in the expression of MT-like genes, coincident with changes in Fe availability, are consistent with a role in Cu homoeostasis.
Axillary buds of intact pea seedlings (Pisum sativum L. cv Alaska) do not grow and are said to be dormant. Decapitation of the terminal bud promotes the growth of these axillary buds, which then develop in the same manner as terminal buds. We previously showed that unique sets of proteins are expressed in dormant and growing buds. Here we describe the cloning, sequencing, and expression of a cDNA clone (pGB8) that is homologous to ribosomal protein L27 from rat. RNA corresponding to this clone increases 13-fold 3 h after decapitation, reaches a maximum enhancement of about 35-fold after 12 h, and persists at slightly reduced levels at later times. Terminal buds, root apices, and elongating internodes also contain pGB8 mRNA but fully expanded leaflets and fully elongated internodes do not. In situ hybridization analysis demonstrates that pGB8 mRNA increases in all parts of the bud within 1 h of decapitation. Under appropriate conditions, growing buds can be made to stop growing and become dormant; these buds subsequently can grow again. Therefore, buds have the capacity to undergo multiple cycles of growth and dormancy. RNA gel blots show that pGB8 expression is reduced to dormancy levels as soon as buds stop growing. However, in situ hybridization experiments show that pGB8 expression continues at growing-bud levels in the apical meristem for 2 d after it is reduced in the rest of the bud. When cultured stems containing buds are treated with indoleacetic acid at concentrations >/=10 mum, bud growth and expression of pGB8 in the buds are inhibited.
A gene encoding cytosolic ascorbate peroxidase (ApxI) from pea (Pisum sativum L.) was isolated and its nucleotide sequence determined. By homologous alignment between the ApxI cDNA (Mittler, R., and Zilinskas, B. (1991) FEBS Lett. 289, 257-259) and the genomic clone, positions of introns and exons were determined. The isolated ApxI gene was found to contain 9 introns, the first of which was located within the 5'-untranslated region of the mRNA. Southern blot analysis of pea genomic DNA suggests that in pea cytosolic ascorbate peroxidase is encoded by a single copy gene. Steady state ApxI transcript levels were found to increase in response to several stresses imposed by drought, heat, and application of ethephon, abscisic acid, and the superoxide-generating agent paraquat. Increases in ascorbate peroxidase activity in response to stresses were less marked than changes observed in transcript levels; cytosolic ascorbate peroxidase protein levels measured by immunoblot analysis remained unchanged.
Plastid DNA of the moss Physcomitrella patens has been sequenced. An open reading frame (ORF 315) was identified downstream from rbcL, between trnR-CCG and psaI. This ORF shares homology with zfpA, a putative regulatory gene in Pisum sativum. The moss ORF is preceded by a Shine-Dalgarno sequence, two plastid promoter consensus sequences, and three TATA boxes. A specific probe detected three transcripts of low abundance in the wild-type moss and a cytokinin-sensitive chloroplast mutant. Steady state levels of zfpA transcripts were different in the two genotypes. In mutant protonemata treated with cytokinin, steady state levels of the largest transcript decreased significantly.
An RNA polymerase activity has been purified from pea (Pisum sativum) chloroplast extracts with a distinct transcriptional specificity for a chloroplast messenger gene. This activity (ms-RNA pol) differs from the pea RNA polymerase preparation reported by Sun, Shapiro, Wu & Tewari [(1986) Plant Mol. Biol. 6, 429-439], which specifically transcribes only the rRNA gene (rb-RNA pol). The specificity of transcription has been assessed by the synthesis in vitro of discrete transcripts of predicted sizes using cloned promoter regions of the chloroplast psbA and 16 S rRNA genes. The ms-RNA pol preparation, with polypeptides ranging in apparent molecular mass from 22 to 180 kDa, correctly initiates transcription from recombinant plasmids containing the psbA promoter and does not support 16 S rRNA promoter-directed transcription. The two activities differ also in their response to Mn2+ ions. To investigate whether the two transcriptional activities share common functional polypeptides, monoclonal antibodies were developed against the rb-RNA pol preparation. Three clones were selected on the basis of their ability to inhibit transcription in vitro of the 16 S rRNA gene by rb-RNA pol. The antibodies from these clones independently recognized three polypeptides with molecular masses of 27, 90 and 95 kDa on immunoblots. Antibodies cross-reacting with the 90 kDa polypeptide completely eliminated the specific retardation of an end-labelled 16 S rRNA promoter fragment in a mobility-shift assay, whereas the antibodies against the 95 kDa polypeptide resulted in the formation of a ternary complex (enzyme-DNA-antibody). The antibodies cross-reacting with the 27 kDa polypeptide, however, did not alter the mobility of the retarded DNA-enzyme complex on the gel. These antibodies also inhibited transcription in vitro of the psbA gene by ms-RNA pol and recognized polypeptides of identical molecular masses in the ms-RNA pol. These results show that the three polypeptides are functional components of the chloroplast transcriptional complex and appear to be involved in the transcription of both rRNA and mRNA genes. Transcriptional specificity is probably conferred by ancillary transcription factor(s) which remain to be identified.
To measure transcript levels for individual members of the Cab (chlorophyll a/b protein) multigene family in pea under a range of developmental situations, we developed a system using cDNA synthesis, the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and chemiluminescence detection. In order to design gene-specific PCR primers for all genes, a partial genomic clone for a fifth, Type I LHCII (light-harvesting complex of photosystem II) gene, Cab-9 The Cab-9 sequence appears in the Genbank/EMBL databases under the accession number M86906 , was isolated and sequenced. All seven known Cab genes in pea are expressed in light-grown buds and leaves, including several genes previously known only from genomic clones. There appear to be at least two groups of Cab genes in pea which differ in their response to light and development. The first group (consisting of Cab-8, AB96, Cab-215 and Cab-315) includes Type I, Type II and Type III genes, shows a relatively strong response to red light, and has bud transcript levels similar to or slightly higher than leaves. The second group, consisting of the Type I genes Cab-9, AB80 and AB66, shows little or no transcript accumulation 24 h after a red light pulse, and has higher transcript levels in leaves than in buds. Transcript levels for genes in this second group appear to be lower than those of the first group in all developmental situations examined. These data indicate that there has been an evolutionary divergence of the responses to light and development among the Type I LHCII genes.
H-protein is the lipoyl-protein component of the glycine decarboxylase complex, which catalyses, with serine hydroxymethyltransferase, the mitochondrial step of photorespiration in plants. We have isolated and characterized the gene (gdcH) encoding the H-protein in pea (Pisum sativum L.). The H-protein gene is distributed in a stretch of about 1.55 kbp and contains three introns (75, 64 and 185 bp) located in the coding region. No intervening sequences were detected in the 5' and 3' non-coding regions. This intron-exon structure contrasts with the preliminary H-protein gene structures reported for human and chicken, where these genes (dispersed on 13 and 8 kbp genomic fragments respectively) are composed of five highly conserved exons and are interrupted by four long introns. Two main transcription sites were detected by primer extension of RNA. The first transcriptional initiation site was assigned the +1 position and correlated with a putative TATA box located at position -26. The second transcriptional start site was not correlated with a putative TATA box, but may be regulated by an 'initiator' element described by Smale & Baltimore [(1989) Cell (Cambridge, Mass.) 57, 103-113] which contains, within itself, the transcription start site. The presence of two potential promoters may be related to the specialized overexpression pattern of H-protein in leaves, in order to support photorespiration.
An antiserum raised against dehydrin from maize (Zea mays) recognised several polypeptides in extracts of pea (Pisum sativum) cotyledons. A cDNA expression library was prepared from mRNA of developing cotyledons, screened with the antiserum and positive clones were purified and characterised. The nucleotide sequence of one such clone, pPsB12, contained an open reading frame which would encode a polypeptide with regions of significant amino acid sequence similarity to dehydrins from other plant species. The deduced amino acid sequence of the pea dehydrin encoded by B12 is 197 amino acids in length, has a high glycine content (25.9%), lacks tryptophan and is highly hydrophilic. The polypeptide has an estimated molecular mass of 20.4 kDa and pI = 6.4. An in vitro synthesised product from the clone comigrates with one of the in vivo proteins recognised by the antiserum. A comparison of the pea dehydrin sequence with sequences from other species revealed conserved amino acid regions: an N-terminal DEYGNP and a lysine-rich block (KIKEKLPG), both of which are present in two copies. Unexpectedly, pea dehydrin lacks a stretch of serine residues which is conserved in other dehydrins. B12 mRNA and dehydrin proteins accumulated in dehydration-stressed seedlings, associated with elevated levels of endogenous abscisic acid (ABA). Applied ABA induced expression of dehydrins in unstressed seedlings. Dehydrin expression was rapidly reversed when seedlings were removed from the stress or from treatment with ABA and placed in water. During pea cotyledon development, dehydrin mRNA and proteins accumulated in mid to late embryogenesis. Dehydrin proteins were some of the most actively synthesised at about the time of maximum fresh weight and represent about 2% of protein in mature cotyledons.
The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to detect pea seedborne mosaic potyvirus (PSbMV) pathotype P1 RNA after reverse transcription of total nucleic acid preparations from pea (Pisum sativum) tissues. Tissues assayed for PSbMV included leaves, roots, petals, seed parts, and pollen. Three oligonucleotide primers in appropriate combination yielded two products of the predicted size: 730 and 1200 bp. The described methodology allows for rapid pathotype-specific PSbMV detection with utmost sensitivity and wide applicability.
AB96, a gene encoding a Pisum sativum chlorophyll a/b binding protein [Coruzzi et al. (1983) J. Biol. Chem. 258, 1399-1402], can be expressed in Escherichia coli and reconstituted with pigments by the procedure described by Plumley and Schmidt [(1987) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 84, 146-150]. Following purification by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, the reconstituted pigment-protein complex (CP2) is shown to have similar pigment-binding characteristics to native CP2 complexes isolated from thylakoid membranes. Therefore, the AB96 gene product contains binding sites for chlorophylls a and b and xanthophylls, all of which are necessary for optimal reconstitution in vitro. Absorption, fluorescence, and circular dichroism spectroscopy indicate that the pigments are oriented accurately and that chlorophylls a and b are adjoined for energy transfer. Studies with proteins produced after deletion mutagenesis of AB96 indicate that NH2-terminal amino acids 1-21 and COOH-terminal amino acids 219-228 do not play a role in pigment binding. In contrast, amino acids 50-57 and 204-212 (encompassing one of three conserved histidine residues) are essential for reconstitution. Residues near the presumed NH2- and COOH-terminal alpha-helix boundaries (22-49 and 213-218, respectively) affect the stability of reconstituted CP2 during electrophoresis at 4 degrees C. Correlation of diminished chlorophyll a binding with disappearance of a negative circular dichroism near 684 nm suggests that amino acids 213-218 near the COOH-terminal boundary of the third membrane-spanning helix affect the binding of some chlorophyll a molecules.
A pea leaf cDNA library constructed in lambda gt11 was screened with an antibody raised to the P subunit of glycine decarboxylase. One of the positive clones isolated was sequenced and shown to contain an open reading frame, which encoded the entire P subunit polypeptide. Aligning the deduced amino acid sequence with the amino acid sequence determined directly from the NH2 terminus of the mature P subunit shows the presence of a putative 86 amino acid leader sequence, presumably required for import into the mitochondria, and gives a Mr of the mature protein of 105,000. Comparison of this deduced amino acid sequence with the sequence of a pyridoxal phosphate-containing peptide isolated from the P subunit of chicken liver glycine decarboxylase shows remarkable conservation. The P subunit, however, shows little sequence homology with other published amino acid decarboxylases. Expression of the P subunit mRNA shows a pattern very similar to that of the corresponding polypeptide: it is strongly light induced and is expressed at a much higher level in leaves than in other tissues. Southern blot analysis suggests that the P subunit is encoded by a small multigene family.
Complementary DNA clones and a corresponding nuclear gene (lpcr) encoding the NADPH-dependent protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase (pchlide reductase, EC 1.6.99.1) have been characterized from pea (Pisum sativum L.). The pea lpcr gene encodes a 43,118 Da precursor polypeptide comprised of a transit peptide of 64 amino acids and a mature protein of 336 amino acids. The coding portion of the gene is interrupted by four introns, two of which are located within the transit peptide coding portion of the gene. The deduced primary structure for the pea protein is similar to those reported for Arabidopsis and two monocot species. Northern blot analysis revealed little to no decrease in steady-state levels of mRNA encoding the enzyme in etiolated leaves illuminated with continuous white light for up to 48 h. In contrast, western blot analysis showed that the major immunoreactive species present in whole leaf extracts decreased to nearly undetectable levels during this same 48 h period. These results suggest that pchlide reductase activity in pea is primarily regulated post-transcriptionally, most likely at the level of translation initiation/elongation or protein turnover.
We describe a family of stress-induced, developmentally regulated soybean genes for which cDNAs have been obtained from two different cultivars (Glycine max cv. Mandarin and Glycine max cv. Williams). The mRNAs corresponding to these cDNAs, called SAM22 and H4, respectively, accumulate predominantly in the roots of soybean seedlings but are present at high levels in the roots and leaves of mature plants. SAM22 accumulation is especially dramatic in senescent leaves. In addition, SAM22 accumulation can be induced on young leaves by wounding or by transpiration-mediated uptake of salicylic acid, methyl viologen, fungal elicitor, hydrogen peroxide or sodium phosphate (pH 6.9). Taken together, these data indicate that the genes corresponding to SAM22 and H4 are induced by various stresses and developmental cues. Southern blot analysis indicates that multiple copies of sequences related to SAM22 exist in the soybean genome. We also show that the nucleotide sequences of the cDNAs corresponding to SAM22 and H4 are 86% identical at the nucleotide level to each other and 70% identical at the amino acid level to the 'disease resistance response proteins' of Pisum sativum.
Several cDNA clones encoding delta 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase (P5CR, L-proline:NAD[P]+ 5-oxidoreductase, EC 1.5.1.2), which catalyzes the terminal step in proline biosynthesis, were isolated from a pea leaf library screened with a 32P-labeled Aval fragment of a soybean nodule P5CR cDNA (A.J. Delauney, D.P.S. Verma [1990] Mol Gen Genet 221: 299-305). DNA sequence analysis of one full-length 1.3-kb clone (pPPS3) indicated that the pea P5CR gene contains a single major open reading frame encoding a polypeptide of 28,242 Da. Genomic analysis suggested that two to three copies of the P5CR gene are present per haploid genome in pea. The primary structure of pea P5CR is 85% identical with that of soybean and exhibits significant homology to human, yeast, and Escherichia coli P5CR. The sequence of one of four highly conserved domains found in all prokaryotic and eukaryotic P5CRs is similar to the consensus sequence for the NAD(P)H-binding site of other enzymes. The pea P5CR cDNA hybridized to two transcripts, 1.3 and 1.1 kb in size, in polyadenylated RNA purified from leaf tissues of mature, light-grown plants (4 weeks old). Only the 1.3-kb transcript was detected in younger (1 week old) greened seedlings or in etiolated seedlings. In greened seedlings, steady-state levels of this 1.3-kb mRNA increased approximately 5-fold in root tissues within 6 h after plants were irrigated with 0.4 M NaCl, suggesting that expression of the P5CR gene is osmoregulated.
The pea (Pisum sativum L.) gene PSMTA has an ORF encoding a predicted protein with sequence similarity to class I metallothioneins (MTS). To examine the metal-binding properties of the PSMTA protein it has been expressed in E. coli as a carboxyterminal extension of glutathione-S-transferase (GST). Metal ions were associated with the expressed protein when purified from lysates of E. coli grown in metal supplemented media. The pH of half-dissociation of Zn, Cd and Cu ions from the recombinant fusion protein was determined to be 5.35, 3.95 and 1.45 respectively, compared with equivalent estimates of 4.50, 3.00 and 1.80 for equine renal MT.
The isoflavonoid phytoalexin pisatin is synthesized by pea (Pisum sativum L.) in response to microbial infection and certain other forms of stress. The terminal step in the biosynthesis of pisatin is catalyzation by the (+)-6a-hydroxymaackiain 3-O-methyltransferase (HMKMT). This enzyme, identified as a protein of Mr 43,000 by photoaffinity labeling (Preisig et al. (1989) Plant Physiol. 91, 559-566), was purified 280-fold from CuCl2-stressed pea seedlings and subjected to preparative sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Antibodies were raised in rabbit against this protein cut from the polyacrylamide gels. The antiserum against the purified enzyme inhibited HMKMT enzyme activity and showed high specificity for the Mr 43,000 protein on Western blots and in immunoprecipitations. This enzyme, present almost exclusively in the 95,000g supernatant after differential centrifugation, was induced in pea from a low constitutive level by treatment with CuCl2, suggesting that the HMKMT is newly synthesized in response to stress. HMKMT mRNA translational activity increased in peas with time after treatment with CuCl2. Peak translational activity occurred about 12 h after treatment, preceding peak enzyme activity by a few hours. Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) mRNA abundance increased coordinately with that of HMKMT. The increase in PAL mRNA translational activity in response to stress is known to reflect transcriptional activation of PAL genes. Thus, the induction by stress of enzyme activity both at an early step and at the terminal step in the phenylpropanoid/isoflavonoid biosynthetic pathway appears to be at the transcriptional level.
A 5.1 kb segment of pea chloroplast DNA containing the upstream region of petA was sequenced. RNAs produced from this DNA were characterized. This region encodes putative genes for psbK, trnQ, zfpA, psaI, ORF231, and petA. These genes are all on the same reading strand except for psbK. The gene organization is somewhat different from that of tobacco, rice, and liverwort, which lack the psbK-trnQ genes in this region and contain ORF184/185. Northern blot and primer extension analysis show that the pea transcript covers the zfpA-psaI-ORF231-petA gene cluster and trnQ. These results indicated that the psbK-trnQ genes have been rearranged and a new transcription unit was formed.
The diurnal and circadian expression of light-inducible chloroplast proteins, i.e. light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein (LHCP), early light-inducible protein (ELIP) and Fe-S Rieske, has been studied in young pea plantlets at the level of mRNA integrated into polysomal complexes and at the level of proteins. Under light-dark as well as constant light conditions the levels of the three nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins oscillate while the investigated plastid-encoded proteins, large subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (LSU), reaction center protein D1 and cytochrome f, do not show oscillations at the protein level. The levels of the nuclear-encoded polysome-bound mRNAs fluctuate in parallel with the changes in the levels of poly(A) RNA which were described previously. Under constant light conditions the oscillation at the level of polysomal bound mRNA is readily dampened while the steady-state levels of the investigated nuclear-encoded proteins still fluctuate. We conclude that the extent of expression of the genes for the nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins studied is controlled by a circadian ocillator primarily, but not exclusively, at the level of transcription.
Asparagine synthetase (AS) mRNA in Pisum sativum accumulates preferentially in plants grown in the dark. Nuclear run-on experiments demonstrate that expression of both the AS1 and AS2 genes is negatively regulated by light at the level of transcription. A decrease in the transcriptional rate of the AS1 gene can be detected as early as 20 min after exposure to light. Time course experiments reveal that the levels of AS mRNA fluctuate dramatically during a "normal" light/dark cycle. This is due to a direct effect of light and not to changes associated with circadian rhythm. A novel finding is that the light-repressed expression of the AS1 gene is as dramatic in nonphotosynthetic organs such as roots as it is in leaves. Experiments demonstrate that the small amount of light which passes through the soil is sufficient to repress AS1 expression in roots, indicating that light has a direct effect on AS1 gene expression in roots. The negative regulation of AS gene expression by light was shown to be a general phenomenon in plants which also occurs in nonlegumes such as Nicotiana plumbaginifolia and Nicotiana tabacum. Thus, the AS genes can serve as a model with which to dissect the molecular basis for light-regulated transcriptional repression in plants.
A differentially expressed maize gene has been cloned and sequenced. Transcriptional and translational start sites have been mapped and 2.5 kb of 5' flanking DNA were sequenced. The 8 kDa protein encoded by this gene shows striking similarity to the metallothionein-like proteins recently described in Pisum sativum and Mimulus guttatus. The maize MT-L gene message is very abundant in roots without exposure to high levels of metals, present at lower concentration in leaves and pith, and at very low concentration in seed.
We sequenced the nucleotides around the rpl2 gene, encoding the ribosomal protein L2, in pea (Pisum sativum cv. Alaska) chloroplasts and analyzed the expression of the rpl2 gene. During deetiolation, accumulation of the rpl2 transcript did not require de novo protein synthesis on chloroplastic ribosomes, in contrast to that of most chloroplast-encoded genes. This suggested that the mechanism involved in the expression of rpl2 differed from that of most chloroplast-encoded genes.
A homologue of the ubiquitous eukaryotic cell cycle regulatory gene, cdc2, has been cloned from Pisum sativum, the garden pea. A novel immunological strategy was devised and implemented for screening PCR products generated by degenerate oligonucleotide primers. We used PCR to construct a deletion derivative of an Escherichia coli expression plasmid carrying the Schizosaccharomyces pombe cdc2 gene. The deleted segment encoded the domain recognized by monoclonal antibody MAb-J4, a reagent which also detects a single protein in extracts of all plant species we have examined. PCR products, generated by appropriate cdc2 primers, were ligated into new restriction sites flanking the deletion, reconstituting the deleted epitope. This strategy, first validated on a cloned yeast cdc2 template as control, was applied to the highly efficient cloning of a cDNA segment comprising 60% of the pea cdc2 homologue. DNA sequencing revealed strong amino acid sequence conservation among the cdc2 gene products from pea, yeast and animal cells. Genomic Southern analysis indicated that the cdc2 gene occurs as a single copy in pea. An additional cdc2-like clone was recovered which displays amino acid sequence similarity with that of pea cdc2. The reported cloning and screening strategy, though limited by the availability of appropriate immunological reagents, provides not only an efficient means of screening heterogeneous PCR products generated by degenerate probes and/or low stringency PCR, but also product verification by immunological criteria.
Degenerate oligonucleotides, corresponding to conserved regions within the catalytic domain of known protein-serine/threonine kinases, were used as primers for the polymerase chain reaction to amplify cDNA synthesized from poly(A)+ RNA purified from the apical buds of 7-day-old pea seedlings. Five partial cDNAs were obtained and designated PsPK1 through PsPK5 (for Pisum sativum protein kinase) in order of decreasing length. The deduced amino acid sequences show that each member of the PsPK series is different in length, and, although their sequences are quite similar overall, each has a unique sequence. Moreover, each member of the PsPK series has structural features typical of members of the protein-serine/threonine kinase family of protein kinases. All are equally similar to cyclic nucleotide-dependent protein kinase and protein kinase C, suggesting that the pea homologs may be involved in signal transduction. DNA gel blots show that each PsPK cDNA is likely to be encoded by a single gene within the pea genome. RNA blot analyses show that the PsPK transcripts accumulate differentially during greening of etiolated seedlings. PsPK3 and PsPK5 transcripts show a large and rapid decline during deetiolation. In contrast, the level of PsPK4 RNA increases steadily during deetiolation whereas PsPK1 and PsPK2 transcripts show little change during the greening period. Thus light regulates changes in the levels of transcripts encoding putative protein kinases in plants.
The ENOD12 gene family in pea consists of two different members. The cDNA clone, pPsENOD12, represents the PsENOD12A gene. The second ENOD12 gene, PsENOD12B, was selected from a genomic library using pPsENOD12 as a probe and this gene was sequenced and characterized. The coding regions of the two genes are strikingly similar. Both encode proteins having a signal peptide sequence and a region with pentapeptide units rich in prolines. ENOD12A has a series of rather conserved repeating pentapeptide units, whereas in ENOD12B the number of pentapeptide units is less and these are less conserved. From the amino acid sequence it is obvious that the PsENOD12 genes encode proline-rich proteins which are closely related to proteins that have been identified as components of soybean cell walls (SbPRPs). Previously, Northern blot analyses had shown that ENOD12 genes are expressed in a tissue-specific manner. A high expression level is found in Rhizobium-infected roots and in nodules, whereas expression in flower and stem is lower. This raised the question of which gene is expressed where and when. The availability of the sequences of both ENOD12 genes allowed us to analyse the expression of the two genes separately. Specific oligonucleotides were used to copy the ENOD12 mRNAs and to amplify the cDNAs in a polymerase chain reaction. It was demonstrated that in all the tissues containing ENOD12 mRNA, both genes PsENOD12A and PsENOD12B are transcribed and that the relative amounts of PsENOD12A and PsENOD12B mRNA within each tissue are more or less equal. Moreover, the expression pattern during infection and nodule development is the same for the two genes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A gene encoding the preproprotein of the pea (Pisum sativum) lectin was expressed in transgenic potato plants using a cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter or a tobacco ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase small subunit (ssRubisco) promoter. Presence of the pea lectin to levels greater than 1% of total soluble leaf protein was detected by radioimmunoassay (RIA). The pattern of expression derived from the two promoters was established using both RIA and a squash-blot immunolocalisation technique. Western blotting demonstrated that the preproprotein was correctly processed, generating alpha and beta subunits that assembled to give an isolectin form observed in pea seeds and roots. It was also found that the haemagglutination activity and specificity of pea lectin synthesised in transgenic potato leaves was comparable to purified lectin from pea cotyledons.
The expression of nod genes of Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae in nodules of Pisum sativum was investigated at both the translational and transcriptional levels. By using immunoblots, it was found that the levels of NodA, NodI, NodE, and NodO proteins were reduced at least 14-fold in bacteriods compared with cultured cells, whereas NodD protein was reduced only 3-fold. Northern (RNA) blot hybridization, RNase protection assays, and in situ RNA hybridization together showed that, except for the nodD transcript, none of the other nod gene transcripts were present in bacteroids. The amount of nodD transcript in bacteroids was reduced only two- to threefold compared with that in cultured cells. Identical results were found with a Rhizobium strain harboring multicopies of nodD and with a strain containing a NodD protein (NodD604) which is activated independently of flavonoids. Furthermore, it was found that mature pea nodules contain inhibitors of induced nod gene transcription but that NodD604 was insensitive to these compounds. In situ RNA hybridization on sections from P. sativum and Vicia hirsuta nodules showed that transcription of inducible nod genes is switched off before the bacteria differentiate into bacteroids. This is unlikely to be due to limiting amounts of NodD, the absence of inducing compounds, or the presence of anti-inducers. The observed switch off of transcription during the development of symbiosis is a general phenomenon and is apparently caused by a yet unknown, negative regulation mechanism.
The cab and psb A RNA transcript levels have been determined in Pisum sativum leaves exposed to supplementary ultraviolet-B radiation. The nuclear-encoded cab transcripts are reduced to low levels after only 4 h of UV-B treatment and are undetectable after 3 days exposure. In contrast, the chloroplast-encoded psb A transcript levels, although reduced, are present for at least 3 days. After short periods of UV-B exposure (4 h or 8 h), followed by recovery under control conditions, cab RNA transcript levels had not recovered after 1 day, but were re-established to ca. 60% of control levels after 2 more days. Increased irradiance during exposure to UV-B reduced the effect upon cab transcripts, although the decrease was still substantial. These results indicate rapid changes in the cellular regulation of gene expression in response to supplementary UV-B and suggest increased UV-B radiation may have profound consequences for future productivity of sensitive crop species.
In soybean (Glycine max L.), pathogen attack induces the formation of glyceollin-type phytoalexins. The biosynthetic key enzyme is a reductase which synthesizes 4,2', 4'-trihydroxychalcone in co-action with chalcone synthase. Screening of a soybean cDNA library from elicitor-induced RNA in lambda gt11 yielded two classes of reductase-specific clones. The deduced proteins match to 100% and 95%, respectively, with 229 amino acids sequenced in the purified plant protein. Four clones of class A were expressed in Escherichia coli, and the proteins were tested for enzyme activity in extracts supplemented with chalcone synthase. All were active in 4,2',4'-trihydroxychalcone formation, and the quantification showed that shorter lengths of the cDNAs at the 5' end correlated with progressively decreasing enzyme activities. Genomic blots with DNA from plants capable of 4,2',4'-trihydroxychalcone synthesis revealed related sequences in bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) and peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.), but not in pea (Pisum sativum L.). No hybridization was observed with parsley (Petroselinum crispum) and carrot (Daucus carota) which synthesize other phytoalexins. The reductase protein contains a leucine-zipper motif and reveals a marked similarity with other oxidoreductases most of which are involved in carbohydrate metabolism.
An 873-basepairs promoter fragment (-833 to +40), of the legA (legumin seed storage protein) gene of pea is known to be fully functional in transgenic plants. This fragment has been enzymically cleaved, and the products examined for the ability to interact specifically with nuclear proteins. Use of DNA-binding and mobility-shift assays has shown that promoter sequences between -316 and +40 do not form stable complexes with seed nuclear extracts. Fragments from -549 to -316 and -833 to -582, however, did interact strongly with seed, but not leaf, nuclear proteins. Each probe reacted similarly to form three distinct and stable complexes, although only the complex with least mobility appeared to be specific when challenged with competitor DNA fragments. Competitor studies also indicate that a single factor (designated LABF1) forms these specific low-mobility complexes with both probes. Fractionation of seed nuclear proteins by sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, followed by elution and renaturation, shows that LABF1 activity resides in the 84 000- to 116 000-Mr size range of polypeptides. The tissue-specific activity of LABF1 is temporally correlated with legumin gene expression, a relationship consistent with suggestions that this factor may act as a transcriptional enhancer.
We have analyzed the fluence-response and time-course characteristics, and the requirements for protein synthesis, for the blue-light (BL) regulated transcription of the nuclear-coded Cab, pEA207, and pEA25 gene families in pea (Pisum sativum L.). Fluence-response curves indicate two BL responses: a blue low-fluence (BLF) response with a threshold at or below 10(-1) μmol·m(-2) of BL and a blue high-fluence (BHF) response with a threshold between 10(1) and 10(3) μmol·m(-2) of BL. Excitation of the photomorphogenic system responsible for the BLF response results in increased Cab, and decreased pEA25, transcription. Excitation of the photomorphogenic system responsible for the BHF response results in decreased pEA207 transcription and induction of turnover for Cab RNA and pEA207 RNA. Altered rates of transcription for the Cab and pEA207 gene families are apparent within 15 min of BL treatment and remain in effect for at least 24 h. The effect of BL on pEA25 transcription is not apparent until 3-5 h after the BL treatment. Cycloheximide, an inhibitor of cytoplasmic protein synthesis, has no effect on the altered rates of pEA207 and Cab transcription. We conclude from these results that the BLF response for Cab transcription and the BHF response for pEA207 transcription probably occurs without the expression of intervening regulatory genes coded within the nucleus or the translation of pre-existing transcripts derived from nuclear-coded genes.
Two different molecular species of phytochrome apoprotein in terms of amino-acid sequences, phytochrome I (PI) and phytochrome II (PII), are found in pea tissues (H. Abe et al., 1989, Plant Cell Physiol. 30, 1089-1097). The single-copy pea PI gene produces at least three distinct transcripts (mRNAs 1, 2 and 3), differing in the length of the 5' non-coding sequence. The abundance of PI mRNA1 and mRNA2 in pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Alaska) seedlings was determined using a primer extension assay. When dark-grown seedlings pretreated with a red light pulse or white-light-grown seedlings were briefly irradiated with far-red light (FR) 4h after transfer to darkness, the abundance of PI mRNA1 and mRNA2 significantly increased within a few hours. This effect was also observed when the FR was given after a 16-h dark incubation period. This FR effect was reversed by a subsequent irradiation with red light. Therefore, this photoreversible effect, observed during the prolonged dark period, can be ascribed to a phytochrome pool that is stable in its FR-absorbing form (Pfr).
The nucleotide sequence of an Escherichia coli gene which presumably encodes the H-protein of the glycine cleavage (GCV) enzyme complex is presented. The gene, designated gcvH, encodes a polypeptide of 128 amino acids with a calculated molecular weight of 13,665 daltons. The translation start site was determined by N-terminal amino acid sequence analysis of a gcvH-lacZ encoded fusion protein. The E. coli H-protein shows extensive homology with the H-proteins from the pea (Pisum sativum) and the chicken liver GCV enzyme complexes. 85 of 128 amino acid residues are identical or chemically similar between the E. coli and the pea H-proteins, and 74 of 128 amino acid residues are identical or chemically similar between the E. coli and the chicken liver H-proteins. All three proteins have identical amino acid sequences from residues 61-65. This sequence contains the lysyl residue involved in lipoic acid attachment in the chicken liver H-protein.
Storage protein gene expression has been studied in relation to mitotic activity to ascertain whether these processes are linked during embryo development in pea. Sections from immature pea embryos were probed by in situ hybridisation to show the pattern of vicilin storage protein gene expression. In addition, the location of mitotic cells was identified using fluorescence microscopy. Vicilin mRNA was first localised in the parenchyma cells of the upper adaxial region of the cotyledons. As the embryos increased in fresh weight, gene expression spread from this region, in a wave-like manner, down and across the cotyledons. The gene was only expressed in those regions of the embryo that lacked mitotic activity.
RbcS-3A, the most highly expressed member of the pea multigene family encoding the small subunit of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase, is expressed in a light-dependent and organ-specific manner. In order to further delineate the sequences which mediate this complex pattern of regulation, putative regulatory sequences were assayed for function in transgenic tobacco plants in the context of an inactive 5' deleted rbcS-3A test gene. We have identified a minimal functional unit of 58 bp which is able to confer organ-specific transcriptional activity. It contains two sequences conserved among the pea rbcS family members, namely box II (-151 to -138; GTGTGGTTAATATG) and box III (-125 to -114; ATCATTTTCACT). These sequences bind the nuclear factor termed GT-1 in vitro. Substitution mutations within this 58 bp element have demonstrated that sequences upstream of, or located between, boxes II and III are not required for the transcriptional activity conferred by this element. Distance and orientation of these sequences from the gene are not critical for activity within the limits tested. DNA fragments upstream of nucleotide -170 of rbcS-3A that contain other GT-1 binding sites can also confer regulated expression upon the rbcS-3A promoter deleted to -50. Multimers of individual motifs, namely four tandem copies of boxes II and III, are unable to drive expression of the deleted promoter. These observations suggest that while GT-1 binding is necessary for promoter activity it is by itself not sufficient.
We have investigated the photoreceptors controlling transcription of genes encoding the small subunit (rbcS) of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase-oxygenase in green leaf tissue of pea (Pisum sativum). RbcS transcription was measured by hybridising labelled transcripts of isolated nuclei to rbcS cDNA clones. Transfer of green Pisum leaf tissue to darkness for 5 h causes a substantial decrease in the rate of rbcS transcription and the rate is restored rapidly when the plants are returned to white light. Low fluence rates of red light are ineffective in restoring the rate of rbcS transcription, suggesting that phytochrome alone does not fully mediate the response. Blue light is similarly effective to white light of an equal fluence rate (120 mumol m-2 s-1) in restoring the rate of rbcS transcription in the dark-treated plants, indicating that a blue light photoreceptor is involved. However, red light at the same fluence rate produces about 65% of the effect of blue or white light, showing that the blue light photoreceptor is not the only photoreceptor controlling rbcS transcription in the green leaf tissue. The identity of the photoreceptor responsible for the red light effect is discussed. Similar effects of blue and red light are observed at the level of transcript abundance in dark-grown pea leaf tissue given a brief illumination with red light, which potentiates the tissue for rapid transcript accumulation in white light.
We have isolated and characterized cDNA clones encoding the H-protein of the glycine-cleavage system of pea (Pisum sativum) leaf mitochondria. The deduced primary structure revealed that the 131-amino-acid polypeptide is cytoplasmically synthesized with a 34-amino-acid mitochondrial targeting peptide. The lipoate-binding site was assigned to be lysine-63, as deduced from a sequence comparison with several lipoate-bearing proteins. The expression of the gene encoding H-protein was shown to occur specifically in the leaf tissue, with light exerting an additional effect by increasing the mRNA levels severalfold. Two polyadenylation sites were found in the mRNA, and a single-copy gene encoding the H-protein was detected in pea genome.
Leaf mesophyll protoplasts isolated from pea (Pisum sativum L.) genotypes Century and PI244253 showed transient expression of β-glucuronidase (GUS) when electroporated with plasmid DNA containing various promoter-leader sequence constructs driving the GUS gene. The optimum conditions for transient expression were: using protoplasts isolated from leaf material that had been kept in the dark for 90 h; electroporating at 250 V and 960 μF; and using 125 μg of calf thymus carrier DNA and 75 μ of plasmid DNA. PI244253 had 5 to 20 times the GUS activity levels of Century. Similar levels of transient expression were obtained using either the nopaline synthase or cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (35S) promoters. These levels were lower than that obtained using a duplicated 35S promoter derivative. The presence of an untranslated coat protein mRNA leader sequence from alfalfa mosaic virus between each promoter and the GUS gene resulted in increased GUS activity. Leaf mesophyll protoplasts and root protoplasts of PI244253 did not differ in levels of transient expression.
The complete nucleotide sequence of the rDNA large spacer region was determined for two related legume plants, Vicia faba and Pisum sativum. In the large spacers of both plants, there were one or several tandem arrays of repeated sequences which account well for the length heterogeneity of the rDNA repeating units. When the entire lengths of Vicia and Pisum rDNA large spacers were compared, significant sequence similarity ranging from approximately 50 to 80% was observed, thus a close phylogenetical relationship was revealed. However, organization patterns of these rDNA spacers were clearly different from each other. The Pisum rDNA large spacer contained only one type of repeated sequence of about 175 bp, whereas the Vicia contained five kinds of repeated sequence. In addition, the initiation site for transcription was tentatively determined by S1 protection experiment.
We report the transcriptional analysis of the mitochondrial (mt) gene encoding cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COXI). A probe made from the protein-coding region of the pea coxI gene hybridized to four RNA transcripts, two of which are much larger than necessary to encode the COXI polypeptide. The RNA hybridization was repeated with a series of sequential probes made from the 5'-untranslated region. The results of these experiments indicated that all four transcripts initiate between 2.8 and 2.1 kb upstream from the protein-coding region. Furthermore, the pattern of hybridization to these sequential probes was unusual, suggesting that introns are spliced out of the 5'-transcribed, but untranslated, region. A sequence located within one of the sequential probes is repeated elsewhere in the pea mt genome. Transcript termini were mapped for the 5' and 3' ends and putative regulatory sequences were located.
A gene for a light-harvesting chlorophyll (Chl) a/b-binding protein (LHCP) from pea (Pisum sativum L.) has been cloned in a bacterial expression vector. Bacteria (Escherichia coli) transformed with this construct produced up to 20% of their protein as pLHCP, a derivative of the authentic precursor protein coded for by the pea gene with three amino-terminal amino acids added and-or exchanged, or as a truncated LHCP carrying a short amino-terminal deletion into the mature protein sequence. Following the procedure of Plumley and Schmidt (1987, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA84, 146-150), all bacteria-produced LHCP derivatives can be reconstituted with acetone extracts from pea thylakoids or with isolated pigments to yield pigment-protein complexes that are stable during partially denaturing polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. The spectroscopic properties of these complexes closely resemble those of the light-harvesting complex associated with photosystem II (LHCII) isolated from pea thylakoids. The pigment requirement for the reconstitution is highly specific for the pigments found in native LHCII: Chl a and b as well as at least two out of three xanthophylls are necessary. Varying the Chl a:Chl b ratios in the reconstitution mixtures changes the yields of complex formed but not the Chl a:Chl b ratio in the complex. We conclude that LHCP-pigment assembly in vitro is highly specific and that the complexes formed are structurally similar to LHCII. The N-terminal region of the protein can be varied without affecting complex formation and therefore does not seem to be involved in pigment binding.
Rocket immunoelectrophoresis was used to measure the accumulation of storage proteins in developing cotyledons of two Pisum sativum (pea) genotypes, that were close to isogenic except for the nature of the allele at the r locus. There was a marked decrease in legumin accumulation in the rr (wrinkled-seeded) genotype compared to the RR (round-seeded) genotype. The accumulation of vicilin did not differ greatly between the two genotypes. Pulse-labelling studies indicated that the differences in rates of accumulation of legumin between the rr and RR genotypes were a consequence of differences in rates of protein synthesis. Measurements of relative amounts of specific mRNAs, using cDNA clones as probes, showed lower amounts of legumin mRNA in developing cotyledons of the rr, compared to the RR, genotype. Both vicilin mRNAs and convicilin mRNA, the latter of which shows a similar temporal pattern of expression to those of the major legumin species, are relatively unaffected by the nature of the allele at the r locus. Nuclear run-on transcription experiments indicated no differences in the rate of synthesis of legumin transcripts in the rr and RR near-isolines. The consequences of homozygosity for the r allele on storage protein mRNA levels in vitro may be mimicked by manipulating the sucrose concentration of the culture medium.
Chloroplast and cytosolic isoforms of glutamine synthetase (GS; EC 6.3.1.2) are encoded by separate nuclear genes in plants. Here we report that the promoters for chloroplast GS2 and cytosolic GS3A of Pisum sativum confer nonoverlapping, cell-specific expression patterns on the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in transgenic tobacco. The promoter for chloroplast GS2 directs GUS expression within photosynthetic cell types (e.g., palisade parenchymal cells of the leaf blade, chlorenchymal cells of the midrib and stem, and photosynthetic cells of tobacco cotyledons). The promoter for chloroplast GS2 retains the ability to confer light-regulated gene expression in the heterologous transgenic tobacco system in a manner analogous to the light-regulated expression of the cognate gene for chloroplast GS2 in pea. These expression patterns reflect the physiological role of the chloroplast GS2 isoform in the assimilation of ammonia generated by nitrite reduction and photorespiration. In contrast, the promoter for cytosolic GS3A directs expression of GUS specifically within the phloem elements in all organs of mature plants. This phloem-specific expression pattern suggests that the cytosolic GS3A isoenzyme functions to generate glutamine for intercellular nitrogen transport. In germinating seedlings, the intense expression of the cytosolic GS3A-GUS transgene in the vasculature of cotyledons reveals a role for cytosolic GS in the mobilization of seed storage reserves. The distinct, cell-specific patterns of expression conferred by the promoters for chloroplast GS2 and cytosolic GS3A indicate that the corresponding GS isoforms perform separate metabolic functions.
Convicilin, a trimeric globulin of pea (Pisum sativum L.) seeds, is closely related to vicilin and composed of polypeptides of 68.2 kilodaltons. A partial copy DNA (cDNA) clone encoding convicilin was isolated, sequenced, and used to select a convicilin gene from a pea genomic library. A part of the genomic clone was sequenced to obtain the coding sequences missing in the cDNA clone and a further 1 kilobase 5' to the start of transcription were also obtained. The entire sequence of convicilin was deduced from the combined genomic and cDNA sequences. The complete gene encoding convicilin was transferred to tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) and the characteristics of its expression in the seeds of transgenic plants were studied. An unprocessed polypeptide, which was found only in the seeds of the transgenic plants, was identical in size to pea convicilin, and was recognized by vicilin antibodies. Convicilin, which does not undergo posttranslational cleavage in peas, was partially processed to polypeptides of a relative molecular mass (Mr) of approx. 50000 in transgenic tobacco seeds. There was a twofold variation in the level of convicilin accumulated by the mature seeds of a number of transgenic plants and this was well correlated with the number of gene copies incorporated in the different transformants. In the seeds of tobacco plants that contained a single copy of the transferred gene it was estimated that convicilin comprised up to 2% of the seed protein. Thus, using a combination of gene sequencing and expression in a heterologous host we believe we have characterized the gene corresponding to theCvc locus, whereas the gene described by D. Bown et al. (1988, Biochem J.,251, 717-726) probably encodes a minor convicilin-related protein.
The nucleotide (nt) sequence of the Rhizobium leguminosarum nifH promoter region contains a consensus promoter, a consensus upstream activator sequence (UAS), a pseudo (psi) promoter and a psi UAS. We mapped the transcription start point for the consensus promoter sequence by primer extension. This promoter differs from the consensus in one of the four supposedly invariant nt and can be activated by the Klebsiella pneumoniae nifA product in Escherichia coli. Under these conditions the psi promoter and psi UAS do not function. A low-copy-number plasmid construct containing the psi UAS as well as the consensus UAS delayed the onset of symbiotic nitrogen fixation in nodules induced on Pisum sativum. Studies of high-copy-number nifH promoter constructs showed that partial deletion of the consensus UAS does not alter the ability to inhibit nitrogen fixation by titration of NifA suggesting that NifA can also complex with RNA polymerase containing the alternative sigma-factor RpoN.
rRNA gene transcription rates were determined during light-mediated leaf development in Pisum sativum. The rate of transcription was observed to increase within 1 day of exposure to light and return to control levels 4 days after exposure. A striking similarity was observed between periods of elevated rRNA gene transcription and increased mitotic activity, suggesting a possible link between the two events.
Nucleotide sequence analysis of cDNAs for asparagine synthetase (AS) of Pisum sativum has uncovered two distinct AS mRNAs (AS1 and AS2) encoding polypeptides that are highly homologous to the human AS enzyme. The amino-terminal residues of both AS1 and AS2 polypeptides are identical to the glutamine-binding domain of the human AS enzyme, indicating that the full-length AS1 and AS2 cDNAs encode glutamine-dependent AS enzymes. Analysis of nuclear DNA shows that AS1 and AS2 are each encoded by single genes in P.sativum. Gene-specific Northern blot analysis reveals that dark treatment induces high-level accumulation of AS1 mRNA in leaves, while light treatment represses this effect as much as 30-fold. Moreover, the dark-induced accumulation of AS1 mRNA was shown to be a phytochrome-mediated response. Both AS1 and AS2 mRNAs also accumulate to high levels in cotyledons of germinating seedlings and in nitrogen-fixing root nodules. These patterns of AS gene expression correlate well with the physiological role of asparagine as a nitrogen transport amino acid during plant development.
Mutational analysis of Pisum sativum L. was used to search for constitutive proteins that might function in nodule formation. The sym 5 locus is a mutational hot spot, represented by seven independently derived mutant lines with decreased nodulation. Comparison of two-dimensional polyacrylamide gels of in vitro-translated root RNA showed a consistent difference in the migrational pattern of one peptide. In the nodulating parental cultivar 'Sparkle', a 66 kDa peptide had a pI of 5.9. In four of the five tested sym 5 mutants, the 66 kDa peptide had a more acidic pI of 5.8. This 66 kDa peptide is found in lateral root, tap root, and shoot. Its expression was independent of rhizobial inoculation, root temperature, or light.
The pea cDNA clone pPsENOD12 represents a gene involved in the infection process during Pisum sativum L.-Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae symbiosis. The ENOD12 protein is composed of pentapeptides containing two hydroxyprolines. The expression of the ENOD12 gene is induced in cells through which the infection thread is migrating, but also in cells that do not yet contain an infection thread. Soluble compounds from Rhizobium are involved in eliciting ENOD12 gene expression. Rhizobium common and host-specific nodulation genes are essential for the production of these compounds. Two ENOD12 genes are expressed in nodules and in stem tissue of uninoculated plants. The gene represented by the cloned ENOD12 mRNA is also expressed in flowers, but a different transcription start may be used.
The glycine decarboxylase multienzyme complex is located in the mitochondrial matrix and catalyzes a key reaction of the photorespiratory C-2 cycle of C3 plants. The cDNA encoding the smallest subunit, the 13,900-dalton H-protein, of the glycine decarboxylase complex from pea (Pisum sativum) leaves was cloned, identified, characterized, and sequenced. The 678-nucleotide sequence contained a 495-nucleotide open reading frame capable of encoding the 165-amino-acid H-protein precursor. The N terminus of this protein contains a 34-amino-acid sequence which does not appear in the mature protein. This presequence resembles the amphiphilic helices observed with mitochondrial leader sequences in yeast. The 131-amino-acid mature protein from peas shares substantial homology with the enzyme isolated from chicken liver. The abundance of the H-protein mRNA was about 5-fold greater in light-grown pea seedlings compared to dark-grown seedlings. The amount of H-protein transcript increased within 4 h after the plants were transferred to white light and continued to increase up to 24 h. The time course for the accumulation of the H-protein mRNA was similar to that for the mRNA of the small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase.
Cloning and sequencing of two cDNAs from mRNA of maturing pea (Pisum sativum) seeds allowed the deduction of the complete amino acid sequence of a lipoxygenase polypeptide which is most similar to that of soya-bean lipoxygenase 2. The predicted Mr of this polypeptide is 97134, and its sequence permits comparisons between the lox2-type and the lox3-type lipoxygenase isoforms from pea and soya bean (Glycine max).
In the common bean, Phaseolus vulgaris, two loci encode cytosolic glucosephosphate isomerase (GPI) subunits, whereas in the garden pea, Pisum sativum, only one locus is expressed. As a working model, we proposed that this change in isozyme number was produced by a gene-duplication event in the lineage leading to Phaseolus after divergence from that leading to Pisum. This model was tested by analyzing the GPI phenotypes in 119 legume genera, representing all three subfamilies and 23 of the 30 tribes of the Papilionoideae. The duplication was detected in 13 of the 20 papilionoid tribes surveyed, including several members of the putatively primitive tribe Sophoreae. Thus, the duplication appears to be an ancient event, a finding incompatible with the initial hypothesis. Instead, gene silencing is postulated to account for the absence of the duplicated phenotype in many tribes, including such advanced groups as Vicieae, Trifolieae, and Cicereae. Furthermore, silencing has occurred numerous times at lower taxonomic levels, including the subtribe Phaseolinae (Phaseoleae), a monophyletic group in which ten genera were found to have duplicated phenotypes and only one (Strophostyles) appeared to have an unduplicated phenotype. Analysis of GPI phenotypes also revealed numerous cases of partial silencing of duplicate loci as well as nearly equal expression of both loci in many, taxonomically widely scattered species. If our revised hypothesis is correct, this latter result implies that most of the subtribes had formed before significant divergence between the GPI isozymes occurred and, thus, that the radiation of the Papilionoideae was rapid relative to the rate of gene silencing.
There have been numerous recent reports documenting phosphorylation of DNA-binding proteins [Montminy and Bilezikjian (1987); Sorger, Lewis, and Pelham (1987); Hoeffler, Kovelman, and Roeder (1988); Jones et al. (1988); Prywes et al. (1988); Sorger and Pelham (1988); Yamamoto et al. (1988)], and the transcriptional regulatory activity of at least one of these proteins appears to be modulated by this modification [Montminy and Bilezikjian (1987); Yamamoto et al. (1988)]. We report here on a plant nuclear protein, the DNA-binding activity of which is strongly affected by phosphorylation. This protein, AT-1, binds to specific AT-rich elements (the AT-1 box) within promoters of certain nuclear genes encoding the small subunit of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase and the polypeptide components of the light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b protein complex. A consensus sequence of AATATTTTTATT was derived for the AT-1 box. We demonstrate that the DNA-binding ability of AT-1, from nuclear extracts of pea, can be reversibly modulated by phosphorylation. AT-1 is active in the nonphosphorylated form and loses all DNA-binding ability as a result of phosphorylation. The kinase that phosphorylates AT-1 uses both Mg-ATP and Mg-GTP as a substrate and is inhibited by heparin and spermine, indicative of an NII-type casein kinase.
At least three classes of legumin, encoded by the gene families legA, legJ and legS, and a lectin, encoded by a single gene, accumulate in the developing cotyledons of Pisum sativum L. Transcription rates for the genes encoding these proteins were measured in nuclei isolated from cotyledons at 12 and 16 days after flowering (DAF). The steady-state levels of the corresponding mRNA species were also measured in absolute terms throughout cotyledon development, from 8-9 to 28 DAF. When transcription rates and steady-state mRNA levels of the different gene families are compared, there is little correlation. This indicates a posttranscriptional regulation of the level of expression of these storage proteins in the developing cotyledons. Expression of the legumin genes is known to be seed-specific, whereas expression of the lectin gene is found in both seed and root. When transcription rates were measured in leaf nuclei the levels of legumin and lectin transcripts detected approached background levels, indicating that these genes are either inactive or transcribed at very low levels in leaves; however, the rate of transcription of the chlorophyll a/b-binding protein gene was high. This points to transcriptional control as the major factor in the organ-specificity of legumin and lectin expression.
In Pisum sativum, two classes of genes encode distinct isoforms of cytosolic glutamine synthetase (GS). The first class comprises two nearly identical or "twin" GS genes (GS341 and GS132), while the second comprises a single GS gene (GS299) distinct in both coding and noncoding regions from the "twin" GS genes. Gene-specific analyses were used to monitor the individual contribution of each gene for cytosolic GS during root nodule development and in cotyledons during germination, two contexts where large amounts of ammonia must be assimilated by GS for nitrogen transport. mRNAs corresponding to all three genes for cytosolic GS were shown to accumulate coordinately during a time course of nodule development. All the GS mRNAs also accumulate to wild-type levels in mutant nodules formed by a nifD(-) strain of Rhizobium leguminosarum indicating that induced GS expression in pea root nodules does not depend on the production of ammonia. Distinct patterns of expression for the two classes of GS genes were observed in certain mutant root nodules and most dramatically in cotyledons of germinating seedlings. The different patterns of expression between the two classes of genes for cytosolic GS suggests that their distinct gene products may serve nonoverlapping functions during pea development.
A gene of the chloroplast genome has been designated the psbG gene on the basis that in maize the gene product is a 24-kDa polypeptide of photosystem two (PS2) (Steinmetz, A. A., Castroviejo, M., Sayre, R. T., and Bogorad, L. (1986) J. Biol. Chem. 261, 2485-2488). We have located and sequenced the equivalent gene in wheat (Triticum aestivum) and have raised specific antibodies to the gene product following its expression in Escherichia coli as a beta-galactosidase fusion protein. Using these antibodies, we have investigated the location of the gene product in various thylakoid membrane fractions of pea (Pisum sativum). The gene product of apparent molecular mass 27-28 kDa is severely depleted in PS2-enriched membrane preparations and its distribution between stromal and granal regions of the membrane is distinct to that of the psbC gene product which is known to be a core polypeptide of PS2. We therefore conclude that psbG does not code for a component of PS2 but instead suggest that it is present in a novel protein complex of the thylakoid membrane. On the basis of 1) the conserved overlap between psbG and ndhC, a chloroplast gene which shows significant homology to a mitochondrial gene that codes for a subunit of the NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase of mitochondria, and 2) sequence similarity between the psbG gene product and the ndh gene product of E. coli, which codes for a respiratory NADH dehydrogenase, we propose that this ill-defined complex functions as a NADH or NADPH-plastoquinone oxidoreductase.
In mung bean (Vigna radiata, formerly Phaseolus aureus) one length heterogeneity in the intergenic spacer (IGS) of the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) is due to a variable number of 175-bp subrepeats. This spacer region downstream of the 25S rRNA coding region was characterized by sequencing the 2.4 kb EcoRI/HindIII fragment of a 10.5 kb mung bean rDNA repeat. Within the 175-bp repetitive elements a sequence was detected showing strong similarity to the T2/T3-box (GACTTGC) found in Xenopus rDNA and involved in termination and enhancing transcription. In mung bean this sequence partly forms the stem of a possible stem-loop structure at the 3'end of each subrepeat. Nuclease mapping of transcription termination sites (TTS) results in two signals, 65 bp and 315 bp downstream of the 3'end of the 25S rRNA coding region. The longer transcript terminates 20 bp downstream of the stem-loop structure at the end of the first 175-bp subrepeat. A spacer model is proposed which allows "readthrough enhancement". No cross-hybridization was observed between the 180-bp subrepeats in pea (Pisum sativum) rDNA and the mung bean 175-bp subrepeat.
We have isolated, mapped, and sequenced a genomic clone containing the ferredoxin I (Fed-1) gene from Pisum sativum. The gene is present as a single copy per haploid genome. It has no introns, and it specifies a 753-nucleotide transcript encoding a 149-amino acid protein including a 52-residue transit peptide. Upstream sequences from Fed-1 contain several elements with similarity to transcriptional regulatory elements from RbcS and Cab genes, and gel mobility shift assays show that nuclear extracts from light-grown pea leaves contain one or more DNA binding activities specific for Fed-1 5'-flanking sequences. RbcS and Cab regulatory sequences are only weak competitors for this binding, however, and the RbcS and Cab similarities mostly lie outside of the region essential for binding. These data are discussed in terms of previously observed physiological differences between the light responses of Fed-1 and other genes.
We report a striking example of organ and stage specific gene expression in pea (Pisum sativum L.). We have identified a transcript to a previously isolated cDNA clone, pEA207 (WF Thompson et al. (1983) Planta 158: 487-500) which accumulates in the actively growing bud of the pea plant and is either absent or present at very low levels in the expanded leaves below the bud. The deduced amino acid sequence of pEA207 shows 49% similarity to the phytohemagglutinin lectin sequence of kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) (LM Hoffman, DD Donaldson (1985) EMBO J 4: 883-889) and 37% similarity to that of the major pea seed lectin sequence (TJV Higgins et al. (1983) J Biol Chem 258: 9544-9549). It is also similar to seed lectins from five other legumes. All of the residues directly involved in metal binding by lectins are present in this sequence. We discuss the possibility that pEA207 encodes a sugar binding lectin-like polypeptide associated with the cell walls of actively growing plant cells.
In Pisum sativum, distinct chloroplast and cytosolic forms of glutamine synthetase (GS) are encoded by homologous nuclear genes that are differentially expressed in vivo (Tingey, S. V., Tsai, F.-Y., Edwards, J. W., Walker, E. L., and Coruzzi, G. M. [1988]. J. Biol. Chem. 263, 9651-9657). In leaves, light selectively affects the expression of the nuclear gene for chloroplast GS2. Differences in the maximal levels of GS2 mRNA in etiolated plants treated with red or white light indicate that only part of the white-light-induced accumulation of GS2 mRNA is due to a phytochrome-mediated response. The kinetics of GS2 mRNA accumulation in response to white-light illumination of etiolated or dark-adapted green plants indicates that GS2 mRNA accumulates more rapidly in plants containing mature, photosynthetically competent chloroplasts. Other evidence that GS2 mRNA levels are affected by the metabolic status of chloroplasts concerns the selective induction of GS2 mRNA in plants grown under conditions that result in the production of photorespiratory ammonia. These results indicate that the light-induced accumulation of GS2 mRNA in leaves results from the action of phytochrome as well as light-induced changes in chloroplast metabolism.
The contributions of various nod genes from Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viceae to host-specific nodulation have been assessed by transferring specific genes and groups of genes to R. leguminosarum bv. trifolii and testing the levels of nodulation on Pisum sativum (peas) and Vicia hirsuta. Many of the nod genes are important in determination of host-specificity; the nodE gene plays a key (but not essential) role and the efficiency of transfer of host specific nodulation increased with additional genes such that nodFE < nodFEL < nodFELMN. In addition the nodD gene was shown to play an important role in host-specific nodulation of peas and Vicia whilst other genes in the nodABCIJ gene region also appeared to be important. In a reciprocal series of experiments involving nod genes cloned from R. leguminosarum bv. trifolii it was found that the nodD gene enabled bv. viciae to nodulate Trifolium pratense (red clover) but the nodFEL gene region did not. The bv. trifolii nodD or nodFEL genes did significantly increase nodulation of Trifolium subterraneum (sub-clover) by R. leguminosarum bv. viciae. It is concluded that host specificity determinants are encoded by several different nod genes.
A cDNA encoding the chloroplastic copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase of pea (Pisum sativum L.) was isolated from a cDNA library constructed in lambda gt11 from leaf mRNA. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the 875-base-pair clone revealed that it contained the complete coding sequence of the mature superoxide dismutase isozyme subunit, along with sequence information for a 48-amino acid N-terminal transit peptide. The deduced amino acid sequence of the mature subunit proved to be 64-87% homologous with amino acid sequences of copper/zinc-superoxide dismutases from other plant species. In vitro transcription, followed by cell-free translation, of the cDNA resulted in the formation of a 23.5-kDa precursor polypeptide, which, upon incubation with isolated pea chloroplasts, was imported and processed to its mature subunit molecular mass of 17.4 kDa.
Complementary DNA and genomic DNA that code for phytochrome apoprotein in Pisum sativum cv. Alaska were cloned in λgt11 and λEMBL3, respectively, and sequenced. Southern and slot-blot analysis of pea nuclear DNA showed that there was only one copy of phytochrome gene (phy) per haploid genome. The phy gene, which consisted of five exons and four short introns, coded for a polypeptide comprising 1124 amino acid residues. Detailed analysis of the 5' end of phy transcripts by nuclease S1 mapping and primer extension demonstrated the presence of three distinct transcripts (RNAs 1,2, and 3) differing in the length of the 5' non-coding sequence (63, 285, and about 465 nucleotides long, respectively). A short upstream open reading frame was found in RNA 2, while RNA 3 contained an additional upstream open reading frame. The relative levels of RNAs 1, 2, and 3 per unit weight of poly(A)(+) RNA, which were semi-quantitatively estimated by nuclease S1 mapping, primer extension, and Northern hybridization, were 88, 11, and 1 in the dark, and 1, 6, and 6 in the light, respectively. Shifting of the plants from the dark to the light confirmed that the levels of the three transcripts were regulated by light in different ways, namely, elevated (RNA 3), weakly reduced (RNA 2), and strongly reduced (RNA 1).
A 5.5 kb Eco RI fragment containing a vicilin gene was selected from a Pisum sativum genomic library, and the protein-coding region and adjacent 5' and 3' regions were sequenced. A DNA construction comprising this 5.5 kb fragment together with a gene for neomycin phosphotransferase II was stably introduced into tobacco using an Agrobacterium tumefaciens binary vector, and the fidelity of expression of the pea vicilin gene in its new host was studied. The seeds of eight transgenic tobacco plants showed a sixteen-fold range in the level of accumulated pea vicilin. The level of accumulation of vicilin protein and mRNA correlated with the number of integrated copies of the vicilin gene. Pea vicilin was confined to the seeds of transgenic tobacco. Using immunogold labelling, vicilin was detected in protein bodies of eight out of ten embryos (axes plus cotyledons) and, at a much lower level, in two out of eleven endosperms. Pea vicilin was synthesized early in tobacco seed development; some molecules were cleaved as is the case in pea seeds, yielding a major parental component of M r∼50000 together with a range of smaller polypeptides.
A near full-length cDNA for a pea (Pisum sativum) seed lipoxygenase was isolated and sequenced. It has a protein coding sequence (2583 bp), 5' (59 bp) and 3' (191 bp) non-coding regions, and a poly(A) tail (20 bp). The predicted amino acid sequence indicates a polypeptide of Mr 97,628 that shows about 86% amino acid identity with a soya-bean lipoxygenase 3 protein sequence [Yenofsky, Fine & Liu (1988) Mol. Gen. Genet. 211, 215-222]. The cDNA directs the transcription of mRNA that can be translated to give an anti-lipoxygenase-precipitable polypeptide in vitro.
Two nuclear-coded heat-shock proteins (HSP) of pea (Pisum sativum) are synthesized as larger precursors of 26 kDa and 30 kDa in vitro. They are transported post-translationally into isolated, homologous chloroplasts where they are processed to mature proteins of 22 kDa and 25 kDa, respectively. When the chloroplasts used for the transport are isolated from control plants grown at 25 degrees C the 22-kDa and 25-kDa HSPs are located in the stroma of the chloroplasts. However, when chloroplasts are prepared from heat-shocked plants both proteins are found bound to the thylakoid membranes. The transition of the non-binding to the binding status is comparatively sharp and occurs between 36 degrees C and 40 degrees C in the variety 'Rosa Krone'. The transition temperature has been determined at 38 degrees C for 'Rosa Krone' and at 40 degrees C for the variety 'Golf'. At 42 degrees C, 15-min treatment of the plants is sufficient to induce membrane binding, which persists for at least 4-6 h (but not for 24 h) after return to the ambient temperature. Once lost, membrane binding can be reinduced by a second heat-shock treatment in vivo. High light intensities during the heat shock interfere with the binding capacity for heat-shock proteins.
A 3.4-kilobase genomic DNA fragment from Pisum sativum L. containing the LegA gene, which encodes a major legumin storage protein, was transferred to Nicotiana plumbaginifolia using an Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain containing the Bin 19 binary vector system. Northern hybridisation analysis of legA-transformed plants demonstrated that legumin-specific RNA was present in developing seeds but not in developing leaves. Legumin protein was immunologically detected in the mature seeds of legA-transformed plants, and was present as the correct-size protein composed of disulphide-bonded polypeptides. It is concluded that the transferred pea genomic fragment contains all the information necessary for seed-specific expression of the legA gene, and for correct processing of the primary transcript and the precursor legumin protein.
Work using a full-length cDNA clone has revealed that the plastid-located glutamine synthetase (GS) of Phaseolus vulgaris is encoded by a single nuclear gene. Nucleotide sequencing has shown that this cDNA is more closely related to a cDNA encoding the plastidic GS of Pisum sativum than to cDNAs encoding three different cytosolic GS subunits of P. vulgaris. The plastid GS subunits are initially synthesized as higher M r (47000) precursors containing an N-terminal presequence of about 50 amino acids which is structurally similar to the presequences of other nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins. The precursor has been synthesized in vitro and is imported by isolated pea chloroplasts and processed to two polypeptides of the same size as native P. vulgaris chloroplast GS subunits (M r 42000). Experiments with fusion proteins show that the N-terminal 68 amino acids of this precursor allow the cytosolic GS subunit β also to be imported and processed by isolated chloroplasts. Polyadenylated mRNA specifically related to the plastidic GS gene is most highly abundant in chloroplast-containing organs (leaves and stems) but is also detectable in roots and nodules.
The expression of a lectin gene in pea (Pisum sativum L.) roots has been investigated using the copy DNA of a pea seed lectin as a probe. An mRNA which has the same size as the seed mRNA but which is about 4000 times less abundant has been detected in 21-d-old roots. The probe detected lectin expression as early as 4 d after sowing, with the highest level being reached at 10 d, i.e. just before nodulation. In later stages (16-d- and 21-d-old roots), expression was substantially decreased. The correlation between infection by Rhizobium leguminosarum and lectin expression in pea roots has been investigated by comparing root lectin mRNA levels in inoculated plants and in plants grown under conditions preventing nodulation. Neither growth in a nitrate concentration which inhibited nodulation nor growth in the absence of Rhizobium appreciably affected lectin expression in roots.
A genomic clone from pea (Pisum sativum L.) contains all of one gene encoding a 'minor' (B-type) legumin polypeptide, and most of a second very similar gene. The two genes, designated LegJ and LegK, are arranged in tandem, separated by approx. 6 kb. A complete sequence of gene LegJ and its flanking sequences is given, with as much of the sequence of gene LegK as is present on the genomic clone. Hybridization of 3' flanking sequence probes to seed mRNA, and sequence comparisons with cDNA species, suggested that gene LegJ, and probably gene LegK, was expressed. The partial amino acid sequences of 'minor' legumin alpha- and beta-polypeptides were used to confirm the identity of these genes. The transciption start in gene LegJ was mapped. The 5' flanking sequence of gene LegJ contains a sequence conserved in legumin genes from pea and other species, which is likely to have functional significance in control of gene expression. Sequence comparisons with legumin genes and cDNA species from Vicia faba and soya bean show that separation of legumin genes into A- and B-type subfamilies occurred before separation of the Viciae and Glycinae tribes.
Since indirect experimental evidence suggested that penetration of Fusarium solani f. sp. pisi into its host (Pisum sativum) involved pectin-degrading enzymes (W. Köller, C. R. Allan, and P. E. Kolattukudy (1982) Physiol, Plant Pathol. 20, 47-60), direct tests were made for the production of such degradative enzymes by this pathogen. When the organism was grown on pectin, a pectate lyase (EC 4.2.2.2) was released into the media. This lyase was purified to apparent homogeneity from the culture filtrate by a two-step process involving passage through DEAE-Sephacel followed by hydrophobic interaction chromatography on octyl-Sepharose. The enzyme cleaved polygalacturonate chains in an endo fashion. The molecular mass of the mature extracellular form of this enzyme was estimated to be 26 kDa. The isoelectric point of the enzyme was 8.3 and the optimum pH for activity was 9.4. Calcium was required for activity and evidence is presented that calcium probably interacts with the substrate rather than the enzyme. When antibodies prepared against this enzyme were used for Western blot analysis of the extracellular culture fluid, a single band was observed at 26 kDa. Following in vitro translation of poly(A)+ RNA, a 29-kDa precursor polypeptide was precipitated by the antibodies. Antibodies inhibited both the catalytic activity of the enzyme and the ability of the fungus to infect pea stems, strongly suggesting that this lyase is involved in pathogenesis.
A nuclear gene encoding a light-induced transiently expressed protein that is localized in the chloroplast has been isolated from an EMBL3 library of pea DNA. The gene is a member of a multigene family. The sequence of the gene contains the complete reading frame of previously characterized cDNA clones and two introns in the 5' region of the protein coding sequence. Primer extension and S1 nuclease studies have defined the cap site. Two TATA boxes are found 5' to the initiating methionine codon. Only a limited homology is found between the presequence of the gene and transit sequences of other previously sequenced precursors. Isolated nuclei of pea have been labelled and the in vitro synthesized transcripts analysed. The results show that the light-dependent expression of the gene family is regulated at the level of transcription.
Three genomic clones for anaerobically inducible alcohol dehydrogenase (Adh) have been isolated from Pisum sativum cv. "Greenfeast" via cDNA cloning. One of these contains a complete gene, has exon sequences corresponding to one of the cDNA sequences and is likely to be an expressed gene. This gene has a structure similar to the Adh genes of maize, with introns in the same positions in the coding sequence but differing in their lengths and nucleotide sequences. At the nucleotide level the coding sequence is 75% homologous to both maize Adh1 and Adh2 and 80% homologous to the Adh gene from Arabidopsis, but has an extra coding triplet in exon 1 that is not found in the other plant Adh genes. The non-translated regions of all the gene transcripts are widely divergent between species. A short segment of the pea Adh promoter region (-290 to +57) was fused to a reporter gene and introduced into protoplasts of Nicotiana plumbaginifolia by electroporation. Transient expression of the introduced gene increased markedly when the transfected protoplasts were incubated under anaerobic conditions, showing that cis-acting regulatory signals necessary for anaerobic control of expression reside in the -290 to +57 segment. Sequence comparisons between this region and the corresponding regions of maize and Arabidopsis Adh genes have identified short sequences that may be involved in the anaerobic regulation of plant Adh genes.
Prominent features of the cytosine methylation pattern of the Pisum sativum nuclear ribosomal RNA genes have been defined. Cytosine methylation within the C-C-G-G sequence was studied using the restriction enzymes HpaII and MspI and gel blot hybridizations of the restriction digests. The extent to which particular features of the methylation pattern change during seedling development has also been determined. Total cellular DNA, purified from defined sections of pea seedlings grown under different lighting conditions, was analyzed with DNA hybridization probes derived from different portions of a cloned member of the nuclear rRNA gene family. By use of an indirect end-labeling technique, a map of 23 cleavable HpaII and/or MspI sites in genomic rDNA was constructed. The map covers about 90% of the rDNA repeat including the entire non-transcribed spacer region and most of the rRNA coding sequences. One notable feature of the map is that the most prominent HpaII site, located about 800 base-pairs upstream from the 5' end of the mature 18 S rRNA, is cleaved only in one of the two most abundant rDNA length variants (the short variant). With a gel blot assay specific for cleavage at this site, we estimated the HpaII sensitivity of DNA preparations from several stages of pea seedling development. We find that, while methylation is generally low in young seedlings, DNA obtained from the apical buds of pea seedlings is highly methylated. Further, the methylation level of rDNA within the pea bud decreases as the buds are allowed to develop under continuous white light. Our data, taken together with published studies on pea seedling development, indicate that cytosine methylation levels may be related to the regulated expression of the nuclear rRNA genes in pea.
DNA sequences encoding ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase small subunit precursor from Pisum sativum L. have been transcribed from plasmids containing the SP6 promoter, and translated in a wheat germ cell-free system. The small subunit precursor polypeptide, its N-terminal leader sequence (transit peptide) and the mature small subunit have each been synthesized independently from three different plasmid constructs. The precursor polypeptide is imported into isolated pea chloroplasts and processed to the mature small subunit by a stromal proteinase. The mature polypeptide is neither imported, nor subject to proteolysis by stromal extracts. The transit peptide alone is very rapidly degraded by a stromal proteinase activity which can be inhibited by EDTA or 1,10-phenanthroline. The use of these gene constructs helps to establish the crucial role of the transit peptide in protein import into the chloroplast.
Considerable information is now available concerning the 7 S seed storage proteins of legumes and the genes that encode them. Our study compares the gene encoding a beta-type subunit of phaseolin (Pvu beta), the 7 S protein of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), with the gene encoding an alpha'-subunit of beta-conglycinin (Gma alpha'), the 7 S protein of soybean (Glycine max). The comparison involves 2880 base pairs of Pvu beta and 3636 base pairs of Gma alpha' and includes approximately 1 kilobase pair of 5'-flanking sequences, and 5' and 3' untranslated sequences, as well as the six exons and five introns that are found to occur in similar positions in both genes. Conserved sequences in the 5'-flanking regions of these genes are discussed in light of their potential regulatory role. Published sequences for 7 S genes of pea (Pisum sativum) permit the inference of the nature and direction of evolutionary change and, in particular, show that the major size difference between the large Gma alpha' polypeptide and the smaller polypeptides of pea and common bean is due to a large insertion in the first exon of Gma alpha'. Comparisons of protein primary structure, potential glycosylation sites, and predicted protein hydropathy show that strongly conserved features of 7 S proteins cut across exon boundaries and that nonconserved regions exist that may have potential for protein modification.
In order to explore the molecular basis for the glycopeptide specificity of legume lectins, we have developed an experimental system in which specific amino acid alterations can be introduced into the carbohydrate binding site of pea lectin. This system is based on the production of pea lectin in Escherichia coli. The plasmid coding for the lectin was constructed from two lectin cDNA sequences isolated from Pisum sativum seeds (Higgins, T. J. V., Chandler, P. M., Zurawski, G., Button, S. C., and Spencer, D. (1983) J. Biol. Chem. 258, 9544-9549) and an expression vector based on the gene for the outer membrane lipoprotein of E. coli (Nakamura, K., and Inouye, M. (1982) EMBO J. 1, 771-775). The lectin is produced as a single polypeptide chain and forms insoluble aggregates in E. coli cells (2-5 mg/liter). Functional lectin is recovered by solubilization of the aggregates in guanidinium hydrochloride, renaturation in the presence of MnCl2 and CaCl2, and affinity purification on Sephadex. This procedure yields a homogeneous 28,000-dalton protein. Comparison of the recombinant lectin with natural pea lectin in an inhibition of hemagglutination assay demonstrated that there is no detectable difference in the carbohydrate binding properties of the two lectins.
Using enzymological and immunological methods we have investigated the relationship between chalcone synthase and the A locus, a major gene involved in the control of anthocyanin expression in pea (Pisum sativum L.) flowers. Pea plants containing the dominant allele A usually synthesize anthocyanins in the petal tissue, whereas plants homozygous for the a allele do not produce anthocyanins. We sought to determine whether or not the A locus also controlled the presence or absence of chalcone synthase, the first enzyme of the flavonoid pathway in the flowers of three genetic lines (A, purple-violet flowers; A,am, white flowers with sometimes pink edges; and a, white flowers). Chalcone synthase was found to be present in all three genetic lines by enzyme activity measurement, indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and Western blotting. Spectroscopic investigations showed that only the genetic lines A and A,am contained anthocyanins and flavonol glycosides, respectively, in the flowers; line a accumulated p-coumaric acid or its derivatives. These data suggest that the A locus in Pisum is not the structural gene for chalcone synthase and it does not appear to regulate the expression of this enzyme.
A nucleoside triphosphatase (NTPase) present in highly purified preparations of pea nuclei was partially characterized. The activity of this enzyme was stimulated by divalent cations (Mg2+ = Mn2+ > Ca2+), but was not affected by the monovalent cations, Na+ and K+. The Mg(2+)-dependent activity was further stimulated by concentrations of Ca2+ in the low micromolar range. It could catalyze the hydrolysis of ATP, GTP, UTP, and CTP, all with a pH optimum of 7.5. The nuclear NTPase activity was not inhibited by vanadate, oligomycin, or nitrate, but was inhibited by relatively low concentrations of quercetin and the calmodulin inhibitor, compound 48/80. The NTPase was stimulated more than 50% by red light, and this effect was reversed by subsequent irradiation with far-red light. The photoreversibility of the stimulation indicated that the photoreceptor for this response was phytochrome, an important regulator of photomorphogenesis and gene expression in plants.
A lipoxygenase cDNA clone, pCD45, was identified in a Pisum sativum L. (pea) seed mRNA cDNA library by hybrid-release/translation followed by immunoprecipitation with antiserum raised against lipoxygenase from Glycine max L. (soya bean). pCD45 hybrid-selected an mRNA encoding the larger of the two polypeptides of Mr approximately 95 000 that were immunoprecipitated from cell-free translation products of pea seed poly(A)-containing RNA by the G. max anti-lipoxygenase. 'Northern'-blot analysis showed the mRNA that hybridized to pCD45 to be approximately 3000 nucleotides in length. Three to five copies of the lipoxygenase gene corresponding to pCD45 were estimated to be present per haploid Pisum genome; hybridization of the cDNA insert from pCD45 to G. max DNA was also detected.
The effects of sulphur deficiency on the expression of storage-protein genes in developing pea (Pisum sativum) cotyledons were studied. Legumin-gene transcription was decreased by S-deficiency, but not to the same extent as the decrease in the level of legumin mRNA. Vicilin-gene transcription was not significantly affected. Control of gene expression may thus occur during transcription and/or post-transcriptional events.
We have investigated the regulatory functions of the 5'-flanking sequences of a chlorophyll a/b-binding protein gene from Pisum sativum, using the neomycin phosphotransferase (II) activity from Tn5 as an enzymatic reporter. We show that 0.4 kb of the upstream flanking sequences of this gene are sufficient for both organ-specific and light-regulated expression of our chimaeric constructs in transformed tobacco plants. In addition, we show that sequences farther upstream have a significant influence on the level of transcription of these constructions.
The expression of plant genes involved in the pea-Rhizobium symbiosis was studied by analysing mRNA from root nodules. The RNA was translated in vitro and the translation products were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. The results show differential expression of nodulin genes during root nodule development. One gene encoding N-40' is expressed at a significant level 5 days before the leghemoglobin genes. Most other nodulin genes are expressed more of less concomitantly with the leghemoglobin genes whereas the N-21 mRNA is only present late during the development. In the development of ineffective root nodules induced by infection with different nod+fix- mutants of R. leguminosarum all nodulin genes are expressed except for the N-21 gene. The results suggest that neither bacteroid development, heme excretion nor nitrogen fixation are essential for the induction of nodulin gene expression in the host plant. Further, it appears that the amount of leghemoglobin in ineffective nodules is regulated at a post-transcriptional level.
The nucleotide sequence of a 1082 bp fragment from the pea (Pisum sativum) chloroplast genome is presented. This fragment contains genes for tRNAGlu, tRNATyr and tRNAAsp as well as an open reading frame (ORF) of 91 codons on one strand and two ORFs of 52 and 59 codons on the complementary strand. The tRNAAsp gene is located entirely within the ORF of 91 codons. The first 366 bp of the fragment correspond to 376 bp at one end of a recently published (1) sequence from the broad bean (Vicia faba) chloroplast genome. These regions contain the tRNAGlu and tRNATyr genes, which are identical and separated by 60 bp in both species. These two genes are probably cotranscribed. The intergenic regions in the corresponding segments from the two species are, except for a 10 bp deletion in the pea sequence, 94% homologous.
Chloroplast development in higher plants is light dependent, and is accompanied by the synthesis of chlorophyll and the accumulation of many chloroplast polypeptides. There is a 100-fold greater content of the photosynthetic enzyme, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase-oxygenase, in light-grown seedlings of Pisum sativum than in dark-grown seedlings. Following the illumination of dark-grown seedlings, there is a parallel increase in the content of both the mRNA and the polypeptide of the small subunit of the carboxylase; this subunit is a product of the nuclear genome. The increases in the mRNA and the polypeptide of the large subunit, which is a product of the chloroplast genome, show less synchronicity. Studies with isolated leaf nuclei show that the increase in small subunit mRNA is mediated primarily at the level of transcription. Three distinct effects of light on transcription of small subunit genes have been found; a rapid (approximately 1 h) burst, followed by a decline, when etiolated plants are first exposed to light; a slow (approximately 36 h) development of the competence to transcribe rapidly after the initial burst; rapid (approximately 20 min) switches in both directions when fully greened plants are exposed to light-dark transitions.
A chimaeric gene, consisting of the 5'-flanking region of a member of the Pisum sativum gene family encoding ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase linked to the coding region of a bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene, has been introduced into the genome of the plant Nicotiana tabacum using a Ti plasmid of Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The expression of the chimaeric gene is light-inducible in chloroplast-containing transformed tissue.
One of several genes coding for the major pea storage protein, legumin, has been completely sequenced. The sequence covers the whole of the transcribed region, plus 5' and 3' untranscribed sequences. The predicted protein sequence starts with a signal peptide and is followed by the legumin alpha polypeptide sequence of 36. 44kd and the beta polypeptide sequence of 20. 19kd . Compared to other legume storage proteins, the alpha and beta polypeptide sequences encoded by this legumin gene, which contain 3 met and 5 cys residues, are relatively rich in the sulphur amino acids. The coding sequence is interrupted by three introns which show boundary sequences typical of higher plant genes. The 5' end of the gene sequence contains a 'TATA box', a ' CAAT box' and a sequence showing some homology to an ' AGGA box'. An extra sequence, identical to the normal polyadenylation signal of the legumin message is seen in the 3' untranscribed region. The structure of the gene and the possible significance of secondary structures in the nascent RNA transcript in affecting the choice of polyadenylation site is discussed.
Two types of storage protein, vicillin and legumin, occur in the developing pea seed. Storage-protein gene expression has been studied during cotyledon development by assaying specific transcripts produced by nuclei isolated at different stages, and from pea leaves. The proportion of vicilin to legumin transcripts changed during development: vicilin transcripts predominated at 9 and 11 days after flower opening (d.a.f.) and were similar in amount to legumin at 14 d.a.f., whereas at 18 d.a.f., legumin transcripts predominated and little vicilin transcription was observed. The rate of storage-protein transcription correlated with previously determined (Gatehouse et al. 1982) mRNA levels during seed development; these transcripts were not detected in similar assays using leaf nuclei. Transcription by cotyledonary nuclei for short times indicated that post-transcriptional processing may be a factor in regulating mRNA levels, at least in the earlier part of seed development.
An 80 000-Mr polypeptide, which bound to anti-legumin IgG, was detected among labelled polypeptides from cotyledons at late stages of development. When poly(A)-containing RNA from similar cotyledons was translated in a cell-free protein-synthesizing system, an 80 000-Mr polypeptide was also detected. Immunoprecipitation of translation products with anti-legumin IgG showed that, in addition to the major legumin precursor polypeptides of Mr approximately 60 000, the 80 000-Mr polypeptide was specifically immunoprecipitated. A cDNA clone, pCD32, was found to select an RNA coding for an 80 000-Mr polypeptide in hybrid-selection experiments. Additional minor polypeptides of Mr 63 000 and 65 000 were present in translation products of RNA selected by pCD32; all three polypeptides were immunoprecipitated by anti-legumin IgG. Thermal elution of RNAs bound to pCD32 showed that the affinity of pCD32 to the RNA coding for the 80 000-Mr polypeptide was greater than to the RNAs coding for the 63 000-Mr and 65 000-Mr polypeptides. In similar hybrid-selection experiments, another cDNA clone, pCD40, selected RNAs coding predominantly for polypeptides of Mr 63 000 and 65 000. A minor polypeptide of Mr 80 000 was also detected among these products; again all three polypeptides were immunoprecipitated by anti-legumin IgG. Peptide mapping revealed close similarities between the 80000-Mr polypeptide and the 63 000-Mr/65 000-Mr polypeptides obtained by translation of RNAs selected by pCD32. There were similarities also between maps obtained from translation products of RNA selected by pCD32 and those obtained from anti-legumin IgG immunoprecipitates of total translation products of poly(A)-containing RNA.
The light environment during plant growth determines the structural and functional properties of higher plant chloroplasts, thus revealing a dynamically regulated developmental system. Pisum sativum plants growing under intermittent illumination showed chloroplasts with fully functional photosystem (PS) II and PSI reaction centers that lacked the peripheral chlorophyll (Ch1) a/b and Ch1 a light-harvesting complexes (LHC), respectively. The results suggest a light flux differential threshold regulation in the biosynthesis of the photosystem core and peripheral antenna complexes. Sun-adapted species and plants growing under far-red-depleted illumination showed grana stacks composed of few (3-5) thylakoids connected with long intergrana (stroma) thylakoids. They had a PSII /PSI reaction center ratio in the range 1.3-1.9. Shade-adapted species and plants growing under far-red-enriched illumination showed large grana stacks composed of several thylakoids, often extending across the entire chloroplast body, and short intergrana stroma thylakoids. They had a higher PSII /PSI reaction center ratio, in the range of 2.2-4.0. Thus, the relative extent of grana and stroma thylakoid formation corresponds with the relative amounts of PSII and PSI in the chloroplast, respectively. The structural and functional adaptation of the photosynthetic membrane system in response to the quality of illumination involves mainly a control on the rate of PSII and PSI complex biosynthesis.
Xenopus oocytes injected with poly(A)-containing RNA from developing cotyledons of field beans (Vicia faba L. var. minor) synthesize precursor polypeptides to the major storage globulins legumin and vicilin. These polypeptides are secreted into the medium without proteolytic cleavage of the legumin propolypeptides into the mature disulfide-linked alpha and beta chains. Similarly, storage globulin polypeptides from pea (Pisum sativum L.) and french bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) were secreted from oocytes. Inhibition of glycosylation by tunicamycin does not prevent secretion. This first report on the secretion of plant polypeptides by Xenopus oocytes shows that (a) intracellular deposition of storage proteins in membrane-bounded organelles (protein bodies) of plants and extracellular secretion have step(s) in common, and (b) the cell, in addition to the mRNA, determines the final destination of these polypeptides.
A cDNA plasmid bank has been constructed using mRNA from developing pea seeds and three cDNAs coding for vicilin polypeptides have been selected. These cDNAs have been sequenced and between them cover the whole of the coding sequence plus part of the 5' and 3' untranslated regions. Comparison with amino acid sequence data from the protein indicates that vicilin is synthesised as preprovicilin with subsequent removal of a signal peptide and a C-terminal peptide as well as post translational endo-proteolytic cleavage. The cDNAs represent two different classes of vicilin genes whilst amino acid data show that there are at least three major classes of vicilin polypeptide. The vicilin sequences show extensive homology with conglycinin and phaseolin except in the regions of the internal proteolytic cleavages. The evolutionary significance of this relationship is discussed.
The tissue-specific syntheses of seed storage proteins in the cotyledons of developing pea (Pisum sativum L.) seeds have been demonstrated by estimates of their qualitative and quantitative accumulation by sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis and rocket immunoelectrophoresis respectively. Vicilin-fraction proteins initially accumulated faster than legumin, but whereas legumin was accumulated throughout development, different components of the vicilin fraction had their predominant periods of synthesis at different stages of development. The translation products in vitro of polysomes isolated from cotyledons at different stages of development reflected the synthesis in vivo of storage-protein polypeptides at corresponding times. The levels of storage-protein mRNA species during development were estimated by 'Northern' hybridization using cloned complementary-DNA probes. This technique showed that the levels of legumin and vicilin (47000-Mr precursors) mRNA species increased and decreased in agreement with estimated rates of synthesis of the respective polypeptides. The relative amounts of these messages, estimated by kinetic hybridization were also consistent. Legumin mRNA was present in leaf poly(A)+ RNA at less than one-thousandth of the level in cotyledon poly(A)+ (polyadenylated) RNA, demonstrating tissue-specific expression. Evidence is presented that storage-protein mRNA species are relatively long-lived, and it is suggested that storage-protein synthesis is regulated primarily at the transcriptional level.
Velocity sedimentation in alkaline sucrose gradients, single cell autoradiography and cytophotometry were used to determine if protein synthesis is required for the maturation of nascent replicons to chromosomal-sized molecules in cultured pea-root cells. The results obtained showed that cycloheximide at 5 and 10 microgram/ml, added either before or during labeling with tritiated thymidine, blocked maturation of nascent DNA at an intermediate size of 72-140 X 10(6) daltons single-stranded DNA. To reach this size, nascent replicons - which are 18 X 10(6) daltons single-stranded DNA each - were replicated and groups of 4-8 replicons were joined even though protein synthesis was reduced to 15% of the control. Further maturation of the nascent molecules to chromosomal size, however, was prevented and this resulted in the accumulation of nascent molecules in the 72-140 X 10(6) daltons range. The experiments also showed that the joining of nascent replicons is not an absolute function of late S or G2 phase of the cell cycle, since cells treated with cycloheximide and blocked in mid-S phase had nascent DNA of a size corresponding to 4-8 joined replicons. Finally, the results support the hypothesis that at least one step in the process of nascent DNA maturation may require replication, during late-S phase, of DNA segments that are interspersed within replicon-clusters that replicate early in the S phase.
Leghaemoglobin genes in soybean (Glycine max) are present as a moderately reiterated family of sequences. Since there are identical restriction site patterns of these sequences in DNA isolated from leaf, root, or nodule tissue, the data suggest that no major changes in the organization or methylation of leghaemoglobin genes occur during their induction. Cloned soybean leghaemoglobin-cDNA cross hybridized with RNA from root nodules of kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), and to a lesser extent, of pea (Pisum sativum) indicating sequence homology in the leghaemoglobin genes of these species. Hybridization to the genomic DNA restriction fragments of two other species, Glycine soja and Vicia faba, also indicated interspecies sequence homologies. Several restriction fragments appear to be common to all species examined. The induction of these genes occurs following infection of the plant by Rhizobium and is independent of the appearance of nitrogenase activity in the nodules. The level of expression is, however, influenced by various mutations in Rhizobium that result in the development of ineffective (nonnitrogen fixing) nodules.
The chloroplast enzyme, ribulosebisphosphate carboxylase, consists of large subunit polypeptides encoded in the chloroplast genome and small subunit polypeptides encoded in the nuclear genome. Cloned DNA complementary to the small subunit mRNA hybridizes to a single RNA species of 900-1000 nucleotides in both total and poly(A)-containing RNA from leaves of Pisum sativum, but does not hybridize to chloroplast RNA. Small subunit cDNA hybridizes to at least three RNA species from nuclei, two of which are of higher molecular weight than the mature mRNA. A cloned large subunit DNA sequence hybridizes to a single species of Pisum chloroplast RNA containing approximately 1700 nucleotides, but does not hybridize to nuclear RNA. The light-stimulation of carboxylase accumulation reflects increases in the amounts of transcripts for both subunits in total leaf RNA. Transcripts of the small subunit gene are more abundant in nuclear RNA from light-grown leaves than in that from dark-grown leaves. These results suggest that the stimulation of carboxylase accumulation by light is mediated at the level of either transcription or RNA turnover in both nucleus and chloroplast.
mRNAs in developing cotyledons of Pisum sativum (L) coding for the major storage proteins, vicilin and legumin, were partially purified and characterized. Both vicilin (47 000 and 50 000 daltons) and legumin (60 000) precursor subunits were translated in the reticulocyte lysate cell-free system when driven by 18 S poly(A)+-RNA. Total poly(A)+-RNA, purified twice by oligo(dT)-cellulose chromatography, migrated on dissociating gels on electrophoresis as a polydisperse peak with three maxima at 18, 14 and 12 S. This mRNA preparation was used as a template for the synthesis of single- and double-stranded cDNAs under optimized reaction conditions. Analysis of single-stranded cDNA on dissociating gels showed a polydisperse profile, with three major components of molecular weights 3.7 x 10(5), 2.3 X 10(5) and 2.0 X 10(5). The double-stranded cDNA preparation contained some contaminating single strands, some partially double-stranded molecules formed by continuation of looped first strands, and some molecules which were primarily single strands protected by partial second strands. Restriction endonucleases cut the double-stranded cDNA preparation into several discrete fragments.
Protein synthesis in the leaves of green pea seedlings (Pisum sativum) is examined by short term labeling with [35S]methionine and autoradiography of the labeled proteins after fractionation by sodium dodecyl sulfate-acrylamide gel electrophoresis. The two subunits of ribulose-1,5-diphosphate carboxylase and the chloroplast lamellar proteins are identified as the major proteins being synthesized. Three protein chlorophyll complexes are characterized by sodium dodecyl sulfate-acrylamide gel electrophoresis; all three complexes are disrupted by heating to 100 degrees in sodium dodecyl sulfate solution. Studies with inhibitors of protein synthesis indicate that the large subunit of ribulos-1,5-diphosphate carboxylase is synthesized in the chloroplast, in contrast to the majority of the soluble proteins, including the small subunit of ribulose-1,5-diphosphate carboxylase, which is synthesized in the cytoplasm. PII protein, the major lamellar protein associated with photosystem II, is also synthesized on cytoplasmic ribosomes. However, many of the lamellar proteins are synthesized within the chloroplast. Integration into the lamellar system of at least one of the chloroplast-synthesized proteins is shown to be dependent on cytoplasmic protein synthesis.
1. Proteinaceous factors contained in a 0.5m-KCl extract of ribosomes from pea cotyledons form a ternary complex at 0 degrees C with [(14)C]phenylalanyl-tRNA and poly(U). The complex is measured by its quantitative retention on Millipore filters. 2. Complex-assembly is optimal at 5mm-Mg(2+) and is independent of GTP and ribosomes. 3. The addition of ribosomes is required to stabilize the complex at 34 degrees C. The complex binds to a puromycin-sensitive site on the ribosome. 4. Soluble factors from the 250000g supernatant of pea cotyledon form a Millipore-retainable complex dependent on GTP and ribosomes. 5. Complex-formation by soluble factors has a Mg(2+) optimum of 10-12mm and forms a puromycin-insensitive complex with ribosomes. 6. The function of the ribosomal protein factors and the supernatant fraction in initiation of protein synthesis is discussed.
A new method is described for the preparation of active, nucleus-free nucleoli and chromatin in relatively high purity and in sufficient quantities to permit biochemical and electron microscopic investigation. This method consists of disintegrating previously isolated nuclei by grinding with glass beads in an isotonic medium thus liberating structurally intact nucleoli and chromatin threads. Nucleoli and chromatin are then purified by differential centrifugation in Ficoll solutions. A study of the chemical composition, submicroscopic structure, and biological activity of the nucleolar preparation has been made. An equivalent study of the chromatin material has also been carried out in order to assess the significance of chromosomal contamination in nucleolar protein synthesis. The isolated nucleoli rapidly incorporate leucine-C(14) into acid and base stable compounds in vitro. Such incorporation lasts for 20 minutes at 37 degrees C and is enhanced by the addition of an energy-regenerating system and a complete amino acid mixture. It is independent of the nuclear Ph 5 enzymes. The bulk of the incorporated label is recovered in the residual, ribosome-like nucleolar protein fraction and a small percentage is found in the acid-extractable basic proteins. The rate of protein synthesis by isolated nucleoli is more rapid than that occurring in the chromatin fraction. This is taken as an additional proof that the nucleolus is the principal site of protein synthesis in the interphase pea nucleus.
Salt stress severely restricts plant growth and productivity. TCP genes, which are plant-specific transcription factors, play a crucial role in the stress response. However, their functions in pea (
Like many gram-negative phytopathogenic bacteria, Ralstonia solanacearum uses a type III secretion system to deliver into host cells a cocktail of effector proteins that can interfere with plant defenses and promote infection. One of these effectors, the nuclear-targeted PopP2 acetyltransferase, was reported to inhibit many defensive WRKY transcription factors through acetylation. To gain a better understanding of the mechanisms by which PopP2 might exert its virulence functions, we searched for other PopP2-interacting partners. Here we report the identification of the Arabidopsis thaliana AT-Rich Interaction Domain protein 3 (ARID3) and its close homologs, ARID2 and ARID4, as additional targets of PopP2. These ARID proteins are core components of the chromatin remodeling PEAT complexes that regulate gene expression through histone (de)acetylation and deubiquitination. In yeast, PopP2 binds the conserved C-terminal part of ARID2/3/4, which contains an α-crystallin domain putatively involved in their homo-oligomerization. ARID2/3/4 behave as substrates of PopP2 acetyltransferase activity, which causes the acetylation of several lysine residues conserved between these three proteins and located near their α-crystallin domain. Interestingly, while PopP2 negatively affects ARID3 and ARID4 self-interactions in planta, it promotes the interaction of ARID3 and ARID4 with PWWP1, another component of PEAT complexes, with which PopP2 can also interact. This study also reveals that disruption of ARID2/3/4 results in reduced growth of R. solanacearum. Overall, our data are consistent with a model in which PopP2 targets several components of PEAT complexes to interfere with their epigenetic regulatory functions and promote Ralstonia infection in Arabidopsis.
The phytohormone strigolactone (SL) inhibits shoot branching, whereas the signalling metabolite trehalose 6-phosphate (Tre6P) promotes branching. How Tre6P and SL signalling may interact and which molecular mechanisms might be involved remains largely unknown. Transcript profiling of Arabidopsis SL mutants revealed a cluster of differentially expressed genes highly enriched in the Tre6P pathway compared with wild-type (WT) plants or brc1 mutants. Tre6P-related genes were also differentially expressed in axillary buds of garden pea (Pisum sativum) SL mutants. Tre6P levels were elevated in the SL signalling mutant more axillary (max) growth 2 compared with other SL mutants or WT plants indicating a role of MAX2-dependent SL signalling in regulating Tre6P levels. A transgenic approach to increase Tre6P levels demonstrated that all SL mutant lines and brc1 flowered earlier, showing all of these mutants were responsive to Tre6P. Elevated Tre6P led to increased branching in WT plants but not in max2 and max4 mutants, indicating some dependency between the SL pathway and Tre6P regulation of shoot branching. By contrast, elevated Tre6P led to an enhanced branching phenotype in brc1 mutants indicating independence between BRC1 and Tre6P. A model is proposed whereby SL signalling represses branching via Tre6P and independently of the BRC1 pathway.
Celiac disease (CD) is an allergic intestinal disease caused mainly by gliadin in wheat, which is widespread in the population and currently lacks effective treatment. α-Gliadin peptides cause cellular damage by substantially increasing cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. This study investigates the protective effect of 11 pea-derived peptides (PPs) on ɑ-gliadin peptide (P31-43) treated Caco-2 cells. Results show that cells treated with PP2, PP5, and PP6 peptides significantly reduce the cell mortality caused by P31-43. Three PPs significantly reduce the P31-43-induced decrease in ROS levels to control levels, and there is no difference between them and the vitamin C (Vc) group. The results in terms of antioxidant-related enzymes show that PPs significantly decrease superoxide dismutase activity (SOD), glutathione reductases (GR), and glutathione (GSH)/oxidized glutathione (GSSG) levels, thus significantly enhancing the antioxidant level of cells. By studying the key proteins of the Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1)/NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) pathway, it is found that PPs activate the Keap1/Nrf2 signaling pathway. The study finds that peptides from peas can effectively alleviate ɑ-gliadin peptide-induced cell damage. The discovery of these food-derived peptides provides novel potential solutions for the prevention and treatment of CD.
The afila (af) mutation causes the replacement of leaflets by a branched mass of tendrils in the compound leaves of pea - Pisum sativum L. This mutation was first described in 1953, and several reports of spontaneous af mutations and induced mutants with a similar phenotype exist. Despite widespread introgression into breeding material, the nature of af and the origin of the alleles used remain unknown. Here, we combine comparative genomics with reverse genetic approaches to elucidate the genetic determinants of af. We also investigate haplotype diversity using a set of AfAf and afaf cultivars and breeding lines and molecular markers linked to seven consecutive genes. Our results show that deletion of two tandemly arranged genes encoding Q-type Cys(2)His(2) zinc finger transcription factors, PsPALM1a and PsPALM1b, is responsible for the af phenotype in pea. Eight haplotypes were identified in the af-harbouring genomic region on chromosome 2. These haplotypes differ in the size of the deletion, covering more or less genes. Diversity at the af locus is valuable for crop improvement and sheds light on the history of pea breeding for improved standing ability. The results will be used to understand the function of PsPALM1a/b and to transfer the knowledge for innovation in related crops.
Squamous promoter binding protein-like (SPL) genes encode plant-specific transcription factors (TFs) that play essential roles in modulating plant growth, development, and stress response. Pea (Pisum sativum L.) is a coarse grain crop of great importance in food production, biodiversity conservation and molecular genetic research, providing genetic information and nutritional resources for improving agricultural production and promoting human health. However, only limited researches on the structure and functions of SPL genes exist in pea (PsSPLs). In this study, we identified 22 PsSPLs and conducted a genome-wide analysis of their physical characteristics, chromosome distribution, gene structure, phylogenetic evolution and gene expression patterns. As a result, the PsSPLs were unevenly distributed on the seven chromosomes of pea and harbored the SBP domain, which is composed of approximately 76 amino acid residues. The phylogenetic analysis revealed that the PsSPLs clustered into eight subfamilies and showed high homology with SPL genes in soybean. Further analysis showed the presence of segmental duplications in the PsSPLs. The expression patterns of 22 PsSPLs at different tissues, developmental stages and under various stimulus conditions were evaluated by qRT-PCR method. It was found that the expression patterns of PsSPLs from the same subfamily were similar in different tissues, the transcripts of most PsSPLs reached the maximum peak value at 14 days after anthesis in the pod. Abiotic stresses can cause significantly up-regulated PsSPL19 expression with spatiotemporal specificity, in addition, four plant hormones can cause the up-regulated expression of most PsSPLs including PsSPL19 in a time-dependent manner. Therefore, PsSPL19 could be a key candidate gene for signal transduction during pea growth and development, pod formation, abiotic stress and plant hormone response. Our findings should provide insights for the elucidating of development regulation mechanism and breeding for resistance to abiotic stress pea.
Semi-leafless represents an advantageous plant architecture in pea breeding due to its ability to enhance resistance to lodging and potentially to powdery mildew. The introduction of semi-leafless pea varieties is considered a seminal advancement in pea breeding over the past half-century. The afila (af) mutation leads to the replacement of lateral leaflets by highly branched tendrils; combined with the semi-dwarfing le mutation, it forms the semi-leafless cultivated variety. In this study, we identified that mutations in two tandemly-arrayed genes encoding Cys(2)His(2) zinc finger transcription factors, PsPALM1a and PsPALM1b, were closely associated with the afila phenotype. These two genes may be deleted in the af mutant. In situ hybridization showed that both genes exhibit specific expression in early leaflet primordia. Furthermore, suppression of PsPALM1a/PsPALM1b resulted in a high frequency of conversion of lateral leaflets into tendrils. In conclusion, our study provides genetic evidence demonstrating that mutations in PsPALM1a and PsPALM1b are responsible for the af locus, contributing to a better understanding of compound leaf formation in peas and offering new insights for breeding applications related to afila.
Monocarpic plants have a single reproductive phase in their life. Therefore, flower and fruit production are restricted to the length of this period. This reproductive strategy involves the regulation of flowering cessation by a coordinated arrest of the growth of the inflorescence meristems, optimizing resource allocation to ensure seed filling. Flowering cessation appears to be a regulated phenomenon in all monocarpic plants. Early studies in several species identified seed production as a major factor triggering inflorescence proliferative arrest. Recently, genetic factors controlling inflorescence arrest, in parallel to the putative signals elicited by seed production, have started to be uncovered in Arabidopsis, with the MADS-box gene
Aphanomyces euteiches is a soil-borne oomycete that causes root rot in pea and other legume species. Symptoms of Aphanomyces root rot (ARR) include root discoloration and wilting, leading to significant yield losses in pea production. Resistance to ARR is known to be polygenic but the roles of single genes in the pea immune response are still poorly understood. This study uses transcriptomics to elucidate the immune response of two pea genotypes varying in their levels of resistance to A. euteiches. In this study, we inoculated roots of the pea (P. sativum L.) genotypes 'Linnea' (susceptible) and 'PI180693' (resistant) with two different A. euteiches strains varying in levels of virulence. The roots were harvested at 6 h post-inoculation (hpi), 20 hpi and 48 hpi, followed by differential gene expression analysis. Our results showed a time- and genotype-dependent immune response towards A. euteiches infection, involving several WRKY and MYB-like transcription factors, along with genes associated with jasmonic acid (JA) and abscisic acid (ABA) signaling. By cross-referencing with genes segregating with partial resistance to ARR, we identified 39 candidate disease resistance genes at the later stage of infection. Among the genes solely upregulated in the resistant genotype 'PI180693', Psat7g091800.1 was polymorphic between the pea genotypes and encoded a Leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase reminiscent of the Arabidopsis thaliana FLAGELLIN-SENSITIVE 2 receptor. This study provides new insights into the gene expression dynamics controlling the immune response of resistant and susceptible pea genotypes to A. euteiches infection. We present a set of 39 candidate disease resistance genes for ARR in pea, including the putative immune receptor Psat7g091800.1, for future functional validation.
The WRKY gene family is one of the largest families of transcription factors in higher plants, and WRKY transcription factors play important roles in plant growth and development as well as in response to abiotic stresses; however, the WRKY gene family in pea has not been systematically reported. In this study, 89 pea WRKY genes were identified and named according to the random distribution of PsWRKY genes on seven chromosomes. The gene family was found to have nine pairs of tandem duplicates and 19 pairs of segment duplicates. Phylogenetic analyses of the PsWRKY and 60 Arabidopsis WRKY proteins were performed to determine their homology, and the PsWRKYs were classified into seven subfamilies. Analysis of the physicochemical properties, motif composition, and gene structure of pea WRKYs revealed significant differences in the physicochemical properties within the PsWRKY family; however, their gene structure and protein-conserved motifs were highly conserved among the subfamilies. To further investigate the evolutionary relationships of the PsWRKY family, we constructed comparative syntenic maps of pea with representative monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous plants and found that it was most recently homologous to the dicotyledonous WRKY gene families. Cis-acting element analysis of PsWRKY genes revealed that this gene family can respond to hormones, such as abscisic acid (ABA), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), gibberellin (GA), methyl jasmonate (MeJA), and salicylic acid (SA). Further analysis of the expression of 14 PsWRKY genes from different subfamilies in different tissues and fruit developmental stages, as well as under five different hormone treatments, revealed differences in their expression patterns in the different tissues and fruit developmental stages, as well as under hormone treatments, suggesting that PsWRKY genes may have different physiological functions and respond to hormones. In this study, we systematically identified WRKY genes in pea for the first time and further investigated their physicochemical properties, evolution, and expression patterns, providing a theoretical basis for future studies on the functional characterization of pea WRKY genes during plant growth and development.
The transition from seed to seedling represents a critical developmental step in the life cycle of higher plants, dramatically affecting plant ontogenesis and stress tolerance. The release from dormancy to acquiring germination ability is defined by a balance of phytohormones, with the substantial contribution of abscisic acid (ABA), which inhibits germination. We studied the embryonic axis of
Agriculture is particularly impacted by global changes, drought being a main limiting factor of crop production. Here, we focus on pea (Pisum sativum), a model legume cultivated for its seed nutritional value. A water deficit (WD) was applied during its early reproductive phase, harvesting plant organs at two key developmental stages, either at the embryonic or the seed-filling stages. We combined phenotypic, physiological and transcriptome analyses to better understand the adaptive response to drought. First, we showed that apical growth arrest is a major phenotypic indicator of water stress. Sugar content was also greatly impacted, especially leaf fructose and starch contents. Our RNA-seq analysis identified 2001 genes regulated by WD in leaf, 3684 genes in root and 2273 genes in embryonic seed, while only 80 genes were regulated during seed-filling. Hence, a large transcriptional reprogramming occurred in response to WD in seeds during early embryonic stage, but no longer during the later stage of nutritional filling. Biological processes involved in transcriptional regulation, carbon transport and metabolism were greatly regulated by WD in both source and sink organs, as illustrated by the expression of genes encoding transcription factors, sugar transporters and enzymes of the starch synthesis pathway. We then looked at the transcriptomic changes during seed development, highlighting a transition from monosaccharide utilization at the embryonic stage to sucrose transport feeding the starch synthesis pathway at the seed-filling stage. Altogether, our study presents an integrative picture of sugar transport and metabolism in response to drought and during seed development at a genome-wide level.
Basic leucine zipper (bZIP) protein is a plant-specific transcription factor involved in various biological processes, including light signaling, seed maturation, flower development, cell elongation, seed accumulation protein, and abiotic and biological stress responses. However, little is known about the pea bZIP family. In this study, we identified 87 bZIP genes in pea, named PsbZIP1 ~ PsbZIP87, via homology analysis using Arabidopsis. The genes were divided into 12 subfamilies and distributed unevenly in 7 pea chromosomes. PsbZIPs in the same subfamily contained similar intron/exon organization and motif composition. 1 tandem repeat event and 12 segmental duplication events regulated the expansion of the PsbZIP gene family. To better understand the evolution of the PsbZIP gene family, we conducted collinearity analysis using Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa Japonica, Fagopyrum tataricum, Solanum lycopersicum, Vitis vinifera, and Brachypodium distachyon as the related species of pea. In addition, interactions between PsbZIP proteins and promoters containing hormone- and stress-responsive cis-acting elements suggest that the regulation of PsbZIP expression was complex. We also evaluated the expression patterns of bZIP genes in different tissues and at different fruit development stages, all while subjecting them to five hormonal treatments. These results provide a deeper understanding of PsbZIP gene family evolution and resources for the molecular breeding of pea. The findings suggested that PsbZIP genes, specifically PSbZIP49, play key roles in the development of peas and their response to various hormones.
Green pea hull is a processing byproduct of green pea and rich in polyphenols. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic metabolic disease characterized by accumulation of lipids in the liver for which there are no effective treatment strategies. Here, a mouse model of NAFLD induced by a DSS+high-fat diet (HFD) was established to investigate the effect of green pea hull polyphenol extract (EGPH). The results show that EGPH relief of NAFLD was a combined effect, including reducing hepatic fat accumulation, improving antioxidant activity and blood lipid metabolism, and maintaining glucose homeostasis. Increased intestinal permeability aggravated NAFLD. Combined metabolomics and transcriptomic analysis showed that vitamin B6 is the key target substance for EGPH to alleviate NAFLD, and it may be the intestinal flora metabolite. After EGPH intervention, the level of vitamin B6 in mice was significantly increased, and more than 60% in the blood enters the liver, which activated or inhibited PPAR and TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathways to relieve NAFLD. Our research could be a win-win for expanding the use of green pea hull and the search for NAFLD prophylactic drugs.
Understanding how nutrient stress impacts plant growth is fundamentally important to the development of approaches to improve crop production under nutrient limitation. Here we applied single-cell RNA sequencing to shoot apices of Pisum sativum grown under boron (B) deficiency. We identified up to 15 cell clusters based on the clustering of gene expression profiles and verified cell identity with cell-type-specific marker gene expression. Different cell types responded differently to B deficiency. Specifically, the expression of photosynthetic genes in mesophyll cells (MCs) was down-regulated by B deficiency, consistent with impaired photosynthetic rate. Furthermore, the down-regulation of stomatal development genes in guard cells, including homologs of MUTE and TOO MANY MOUTHS, correlated with a decrease in stomatal density under B deficiency. We also constructed the developmental trajectory of the shoot apical meristem (SAM) cells and a transcription factor interaction network. The developmental progression of SAM to MC was characterized by up-regulation of genes encoding histones and chromatin assembly and remodeling proteins including homologs of FASCIATA1 (FAS1) and SWITCH DEFECTIVE/SUCROSE NON-FERMENTABLE (SWI/SNF) complex. However, B deficiency suppressed their expression, which helps to explain impaired SAM development under B deficiency. These results represent a major advance over bulk-tissue RNA-seq analysis in which cell-type-specific responses are lost and hence important physiological responses to B deficiency are missed. The reported findings reveal strategies by which plants adapt to B deficiency thus offering breeders a set of specific targets for genetic improvement. The reported approach and resources have potential applications well beyond P. sativum species and could be applied to various legumes to improve their adaptability to multiple nutrient or abiotic stresses.
Field pea (Pisum sativum L, 2n = 14) is a popular temperate legume with high economic value. Heat shock factors (HSFs) are the core element in the regulatory mechanism of heat stress responses. HSFs in pea (P. sativum) have not been characterized and their role remains unclear in different abiotic stresses. To address this knowledge gap, the current study aimed to characterize the HSF gene family in pea. We identified 38 PsHsf members in P. sativum, which are distributed on the seven chromosomes, and based on phylogenetic analysis, we classified them into three representative classes i.e. A, B, and C. Conserved motif and gene structure analysis confirmed a high degree of similarity among the members of the same class. Additionally, identified cis-acting regulatory elements (CAREs) related to abiotic responses, development, growth, and hormone signaling provides crucial insights into the regulatory mechanisms of PsHsfs. Our research revealed instances of gene duplication in PsHsf gene family, suggesting that this mechanism could be driving the expansion of the PsHsf gene family. Moreover, Expression analysis of PsHsfs exhibited upregulation under heat stress (HS), salt stress (SS), and drought stress (DS) showing their phenomenal role in stress conditions. PsHsfs protein interaction network suggested their involvement in stress-responsive mechanisms. Further transactivation potential was checked for spliced variant of PsHsfA2a (PsHsfA2aI, PsHsfA2aII, and PsHsfA2aIII), PsHsfA3, PsHsfA6b, PsHsfA9, PsHsfB1a, and PsHsfB2a. Overall, these findings provide valuable insight into the evolutionary relationship of PsHsf gene family and their role in abiotic stress responses.
AP2/ERF (APETALA2/Ethylene Response Factor) is a family of transcription factors that play essential roles in regulating gene expression in response to various environmental stimuli, including biotic and abiotic stresses, hormone signaling, and developmental processes. Pisum sativum (L.), commonly known as garden pea, is a winter crop sensitive to high temperatures and can also be affected by extreme cold and drought conditions. This study performed a genome-wide analysis of AP2/ERF genes and identified 153 AP2/ERF genes in P. sativum. Based on the conserved AP2/ERF domain and sequence homology, they were classified into AP2 (APETALA2), ERF (Ethylene Response Factor), DREB (Dehydration responsive element-binding), RAV (Related to Abscisic Acid Insensitive 3/ Viviparous 1) and Soloist subfamily. The DREB and ERF subfamily were further divided into groups A1-6 and B1-B6. Tandem and segmental duplication events were more frequent in the ERF subfamily, which can have important implications for their evolution and functional diversification. Under cold stress, the expression of DREB1A was highly induced in leaves, whereas DREB1B was suppressed. Similarly, the DREB2A, DREB2C, DREB2E, and DREB2F were induced in leaves under drought stress. The putative target genes of AP2/ERF transcription factors are highly diversified, suggesting that they play essential roles in various physiological responses in plants, including responses to biotic and abiotic stresses as well as developmental processes. Thus, this study of AP2/ERF genes and their functions provides valuable insight into how P. sativum responds to different environmental conditions, including cold and drought stresses.
MYB transcriptional regulators belong to one of the most significant transcription factors families in plants, among which R2R3-MYB transcription factors are involved in plant growth and development, hormone signal transduction, and stress response. Two R2R3-MYB transcription factors, FLP and its paralogous AtMYB88, redundantly regulate the symmetrical division of guard mother cells (GMCs), and abiotic stress response in Arabidopsis thaliana. Only one orthologue gene of FLP was identified in pea (Pisum sativum FLP; PsFLP). In this study, we explored the gene function of PsFLP by virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) technology. The phenotypic analysis displayed that the silencing of PsFLP expression led to the abnormal development of stomata and the emergence of multiple guard cells tightly united. In addition, the abnormal stomata of flp could be fully rescued by PsFLP driven by the FLP promoter. In conclusion, the results showed that PsFLP plays a conservative negative role in regulating the symmetric division of GMC during stomatal development. Based on real-time quantitative PCR, the relative expressions of AAO3, NCED3, and SnRK2.3 significantly increased in the flp pFLP::PsFLP plants compared to mutant, indicating that PsFLP might be involved in drought stress response. Thus, PsFLP regulates the genes related to cell cycle division during the stomatal development of peas and participates in response to drought stress. The study provides a basis for further research on its function and application in leguminous crop breeding.
The MADS-box gene family is widely distributed in higher plants and the members of the angiosperm-specific APETALA1/FRUITFULL (AP1/FUL) subfamily plays important roles in the regulation of plant reproductive development. Recent studies revealed that the AP1/FUL subfamily member Dt2, VEGETATIVE1/PsFRUITFULc (VEG1/PsFULc) and MtFRUITFULc (MtFULc) are essential for the stem growth, branching and inflorescence development in legume species soybean (Glycine max), pea (Pisum sativum) and Medicago truncatula. However, the biological function of their homologue in Arabidopsis thaliana, AGAMOUS-LIKE 79 (AGL79), has not been well elucidated. In this study, we investigated the developmental roles of Arabidopsis AGL79 by CRISPR/Cas9-mutagenesis and molecular and physiological analyses. We found that AGL79 mainly acts as a transcriptional repressor and positively regulates Arabidopsis flowering time. We further revealed that AGL79 interacts with SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CO1 (SOC1) and represses the expression of TERMINAL FLOWER 1 (TFL1). Our results demonstrated the AGL79-mediated flowering regulation in Arabidopsis and added an additional layer of complexity to the understanding of flowering time regulation in dicot plants.
Food-derived antioxidant peptides can be explored as natural antioxidants due to their potential health benefits. In this study, antioxidant peptides were isolated and purified from pea protein hydrolysates (PPH). The DPPH and ABTS radical scavenging activities were used as indexes to purify the antioxidant peptides by a series of purification steps including ultrafiltration, ion exchange chromatography, G25 gel filtration chromatography, and reversed-phase chromatography. Three novel antioxidant peptides YLVN, EEHLCFR and TFY were identified, which all exhibited strong antioxidant activity in vitro. EEHLCFR showed stronger DPPH scavenging activity with an IC
Wing dimorphism in insects is an evolutionarily adaptive trait to maximize insect fitness under various environments, by which the population could be balanced between dispersing and reproduction. Most studies concern the regulatory mechanisms underlying the stimulation of wing morph in aphids, but relatively little research addresses the molecular basis of wing loss. Here, we found that, while developing normally in winged-destined pea aphids, the wing disc in wingless-destined aphids degenerated 30-hr postbirth and that this degeneration was due to autophagy rather than apoptosis. Activation of autophagy in first instar nymphs reduced the proportion of winged aphids, and suppression of autophagy increased the proportion.
Regulation of plant hormonal status is one of the major targets of symbiotic signaling during nodule formation in legume plants. However, the genetic and hormonal networks that regulate transition to differentiation of nodules are not well-characterized in legume plants. Analysis of plant mutants forming nodules impaired in rhizobial infection allowed us to identify some regulators involved in the control of the later stages of nodule development. In the current work, we extend our earlier studies on the influence of exogenously applied cytokinin on the later stages of nodule morphogenesis using pea
Flavonoids are important secondary metabolites in the plant growth and development process. As a medicinal plant, pigeon pea is rich in secondary metabolites. As a flavonoid, there are few studies on the regulation mechanism of naringenin in plant stress resistance. In our study, we found that naringenin can increase the pigeon pea's ability to tolerate salt and influence the changes that occur in flavonoids including naringenin, genistein and biochanin A. We analyzed the transcriptome data after 1 mM naringenin treatment, and identified a total of 13083 differentially expressed genes. By analyzing the metabolic pathways of these differentially expressed genes, we found that these differentially expressed genes were enriched in the metabolic pathways of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, starch and sucrose metabolism and so on. We focused on the analysis of flavonoid biosynthesis related pathways. Among them, the expression levels of enzyme genes CcIFS, CcCHI and CcCHS in the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway had considerably higher expression levels. By counting the number of transcription factors and the binding sites on the promoter of the enzyme gene, we screened the transcription factors CcMYB62 and CcbHLH35 related to flavonoid metabolism. Among them, CcMYB62 has a higher expression level than the others. The hairy root transgene showed that CcMYB62 could induce the upregulation of CcCHI, and promote the accumulation of naringenin, genistein and biochanin A. Our study revealed the molecular mechanism of naringenin regulating flavonoid biosynthesis under salt stress in pigeon pea, and provided an idea for the role of flavonoids in plant resistance to abiotic stresses.
Pea is a conventional grain-feed-grass crop in Tibet and the only high-protein legume in the region; therefore, it plays an important role in Tibetan food and grass security. Zinc finger-homeodomain (ZF-HD) belongs to a family of homozygous heterotypic cassette genes, which play an important role in plant growth, development, and response to adversity stress. Using a bioinformatics approach, 18 PsZF-HD family members were identified. These genes were distributed across seven chromosomes and two scaffold fragments, and evolutionary analysis classified them into two subgroups, MIF and ZHD. The MIF subgroup was subdivided into three subclasses (PsMIFⅠ-III), and the ZHD subgroup was subdivided into five subclasses (ZHDⅠ-V). The PsZF-HD members were named PsMIF1-PsMIF4 and PsZHD1-PsZHD14. Twelve conserved motifs and four conserved domains were identified from PsZF-HD family, of which MIF subgroup only contained one domain, while ZHD subgroup contained two types of domains. In addition, there were significant differences in the three-dimensional structures of the protein members of the two subgroups. Most PsZF-HD genes had no introns (13/18), and only five genes had one intron. Forty-five cis-acting elements were predicted and screened, involving four categories: light response, stress, hormone, and growth and development. Transcriptome analysis of different tissues during pea growth and development showed that
Inflammatory bowel disease remains a global burden with rapidly increasing incidence and prevalence in both industrialized countries and developing countries. In this study, we prepared pea albumin from pea seeds and determined its beneficial effects being anti-inflammatory and on gut microbiota modulation in dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-challenged mice. Six-week-old C57BL/6N male mice received an equivalent volume (200 μL) of sterile phosphate balanced solution, 0.375, 0.75, or 1.50 g/kg body weight (BW) of pea albumin that was subjected to 2.0% DSS for 7 days to induce colitis. On day 17 of the experiment, all mice were sacrificed after blood sample collection, and colon tissue and colon contents were collected. BW change curve, colon length, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, mucus staining, immunofluorescence staining of T cells and macrophages, cytokines, pro-inflammatory genes expression, nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) and signal transducer, and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling pathways as well as 16S DNA sequence were measured. Our results show that pea albumin alleviates DSS-induced BW loss, colon length shortening, enhanced MPO activity, cytokines secretion, mucus deficiency, and inflammatory cell infiltration, as well as enhanced pro-inflammatory genes expression. In addition, the overactivation of NF-κB and STAT3 following DSS exposure is attenuated by pea albumin administration. Of particular interest, pea albumin oral administration restored gut microbiota dysbiosis as evidenced by enhanced α-diversity, restored β-diversity, and promoted relative abundance of Taken together, the data provided herein demonstrated that pea albumin plays a protective role in DSS-induced colitis by reducing inflammatory cell infiltration, pro-inflammatory genes expression and pro-inflammatory cytokines release, inactivation of NF-κB signal, and gut microbiota modulation.
The seed-to-seedling transition is a crucial step in the plant life cycle. The transition occurs at the end of seed germination and corresponds to the initiation of embryonic root growth. To improve our understanding of how a seed transforms into a seedling, we germinated the
Lipids play a crucial role in the entry and egress of viruses, regardless of whether they are naked or enveloped. Recent evidence shows that lipid involvement in viral infection goes much further. During replication, many viruses rearrange internal lipid membranes to create niches where they replicate and assemble. Because of the close connection between lipids and inflammation, the derangement of lipid metabolism also results in the production of inflammatory stimuli. Due to its pivotal function in the viral life cycle, lipid metabolism has become an area of intense research to understand how viruses seize lipids and to design antiviral drugs targeting lipid pathways. Palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) is a lipid-derived peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-α (PPAR-α) agonist that also counteracts SARS-CoV-2 entry and its replication. Our work highlights for the first time the antiviral potency of PEA against SARS-CoV-2, exerting its activity by two different mechanisms. First, its binding to the SARS-CoV-2 S protein causes a drop in viral infection of ~70%. We show that this activity is specific for SARS-CoV-2, as it does not prevent infection by VSV or HSV-2, other enveloped viruses that use different glycoproteins and entry receptors to mediate their entry. Second, we show that in infected Huh-7 cells, treatment with PEA dismantles lipid droplets, preventing the usage of these vesicular bodies by SARS-CoV-2 as a source of energy and protection against innate cellular defenses. This is not surprising since PEA activates PPAR-α, a transcription factor that, once activated, generates a cascade of events that leads to the disruption of fatty acid droplets, thereby bringing about lipid droplet degradation through β-oxidation. In conclusion, the present work demonstrates a novel mechanism of action for PEA as a direct and indirect antiviral agent against SARS-CoV-2. This evidence reinforces the notion that treatment with this compound might significantly impact the course of COVID-19. Indeed, considering that the protective effects of PEA in COVID-19 are the current objectives of two clinical trials (NCT04619706 and NCT04568876) and given the relative lack of toxicity of PEA in humans, further preclinical and clinical tests will be needed to fully consider PEA as a promising adjuvant therapy in the current COVID-19 pandemic or against emerging RNA viruses that share the same route of replication as coronaviruses.
Aphids are paradigmatic photoperiodic animals often used to study the role of the circadian clock in the seasonal response. Previously, we described some elements of the circadian clock core (genes period and timeless) and output (melatonin, AANATs and PTTH) that could have a role in the regulation of the aphid seasonal response. More recently, we identified two opsins (C-ops and SWO4) as candidate input photoperiodic receptors. In the present report, we focus on the study of cryptochromes (cry) as photoreceptors of the circadian clock and discuss their involvement in the seasonal response. We analyse the expression of cry1 and cry2 genes in a circadian and seasonal context, and map their expression sites in the brain. We observe a robust rhythmic expression of cry2 peaking at dusk in phase with core clock genes period and timeless, while cry1 shows a weaker rhythm. Changes in cry1 and cry2 expression correlate with activation of the seasonal response, suggesting a possible link. Finally, we map the expression of cry1 and cry2 genes to clock neurons in the pars lateralis, a region essential for the photoperiodic response. Our results support a role for cry as elements of the aphid circadian clock and suggest a role in photoreception for cry1 and in clock repression for cry2.
DWARF53 (D53) in rice (Oryza sativa) and its homologs in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), SUPPRESSOR OF MAX2-LIKE 6 (SMXL6), SMXL7 and SMXL8, are well established negative regulators of strigolactone (SL) signalling in shoot branching regulation. Little is known of pea (Pisum sativum) homologs and whether D53 and related SMXLs are specific to SL signalling pathways. Here, we identify two allelic pea mutants, dormant3 (dor3), and demonstrate through gene mapping and sequencing that DOR3 corresponds to a homolog of D53 and SMXL6/SMXL7, designated PsSMXL7. Phenotype analysis, gene expression, protein and hormone quantification assays were performed to determine the role of PsSMXL7 in regulation of bud outgrowth and the role of PsSMXL7 and D53 in integrating SL and cytokinin (CK) responses. Like D53 and related SMXLs, we show that PsSMXL7 can be degraded by SL and induces feedback upregulation of PsSMXL7 transcript. Here we reveal a system conserved in pea and rice, whereby CK also upregulates PsSMXL7/D53 transcripts, providing a clear mechanism for SL and CK cross-talk in the regulation of branching. To further deepen our understanding of the branching network in pea, we provide evidence that SL acts via PsSMXL7 to modulate auxin content via PsAFB5, which itself regulates expression of SL biosynthesis genes. We therefore show that PsSMXL7 is key to a triple hormone network involving an auxin-SL feedback mechanism and SL-CK cross-talk.
Comparative transcriptome analysis of Erysiphe pisi-infected pea (Pisum sativum) genotypes JI-2480 (resistant) and Arkel (susceptible) at 72 hours post-inoculation (hpi) was carried to detect molecular components involved in compatible and incompatible interactions. Differential gene expression was observed in Arkel and JI-2480 genotype at 72 hpi with E. pisi isolate (Ep01) using EdgeR software. Out of 32 217 transcripts, 2755 transcripts showed significantly altered gene expression in case of plants while 530 were related to E. pisi (P < 0.05). The higher transcript number of differentially expressed genes demonstrated peak activity of pathogenicity genes in plants at 72 hpi. Glycolysis was observed to be the major pathway for energy source during fungal growth. Differential gene expression of plant transcripts revealed significant expression of putative receptor and regulatory sequences involved in defense in the resistant, JI-2480 compared to susceptible, Arkel genotype. Expression of genes involved in defense and hormonal signaling, genes related to hypersensitive response, reactive oxygen species and phenylpropanoid pathway in JI-2480 indicated their crucial role in disease resistance against E. pisi. Down-regulation of transcription factors like-WRKY-28 and up-regulation of several putative pattern recognition receptors in JI-2480 compared to Arkel also suggested activation of host-mediated defense responses against E. pisi in pea.
Single three-amino acid loop extension (TALE) homeodomain proteins, including the KNOTTED-like (KNOX) and BEL-like (BELL) families in plants, usually work as heterodimeric transcription factor complexes to regulate different developmental processes, often via effects on phytohormonal pathways. Nitrogen-fixing nodule formation in legumes is regulated by different families of homeodomain transcription factors. Whereas the role of KNOX transcription factors in the control of symbiosis was studied early, BELL transcription factors have received less attention. Here, we report the identification and expression analysis of
Analyses of natural variation and the use of mutagenesis and molecular-biological approaches have revealed 50 symbiotic regulatory genes in pea (
Flowering plants display a vast diversity of inflorescence architecture, which plays an important role in determining seed yield and fruit production. Unlike the model eudicot Arabidopsis thaliana that has simple inflorescences, most legume plants have compound types of inflorescences. Recent studies in the model legume species Pisum sativum and Medicago truncatula showed that the MADS-box transcription factors VEGETATIVE1/PsFRUITFULc/MtFRUITFULc (VEG1/PsFULc and MtFULc) are essential for the development of compound inflorescences by specifying the secondary inflorescence meristem identity. In this study, we report the isolation and characterization of two new mtfulc alleles by screening the M. truncatula Tnt1 insertion mutant collection. We found that MtFULc specifies M. truncatula secondary inflorescence meristem identity in a dose-dependent manner. Biochemical analysis and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays revealed that MtFULc acts as a transcriptional repressor to directly repress the expression of MtTFL1 through its promoter and 3' intergenic region. Comprehensive genetic analysis suggest MtFULc coordinates with the primary inflorescence meristem maintainer MtTFL1 and floral meristem regulator MtPIM to control M. truncatula inflorescence development. Our findings help to elucidate the mechanism of MtFULc-mediated regulation of secondary inflorescence meristem identity and provide insights into understanding the genetic regulatory network underlying compound inflorescence development in legumes.
Recent findings indicate that Nod factor signalling is tightly interconnected with phytohormonal regulation that affects the development of nodules. Since the mechanisms of this interaction are still far from understood, here the distribution of cytokinin and auxin in pea (Pisum sativum) nodules was investigated. In addition, the effect of certain mutations blocking rhizobial infection and subsequent plant cell and bacteroid differentiation on cytokinin distribution in nodules was analysed. Patterns of cytokinin and auxin in pea nodules were profiled using both responsive genetic constructs and antibodies. In wild-type nodules, cytokinins were found in the meristem, infection zone and apical part of the nitrogen fixation zone, whereas auxin localization was restricted to the meristem and peripheral tissues. We found significantly altered cytokinin distribution in sym33 and sym40 pea mutants defective in IPD3/CYCLOPS and EFD transcription factors, respectively. In the sym33 mutants impaired in bacterial accommodation and subsequent nodule differentiation, cytokinin localization was mostly limited to the meristem. In addition, we found significantly decreased expression of LOG1 and A-type RR11 as well as KNOX3 and NIN genes in the sym33 mutants, which correlated with low cellular cytokinin levels. In the sym40 mutant, cytokinins were detected in the nodule infection zone but, in contrast to the wild type, they were absent in infection droplets. In conclusion, our findings suggest that enhanced cytokinin accumulation during the late stages of symbiosis development may be associated with bacterial penetration into the plant cells and subsequent plant cell and bacteroid differentiation.
Vascular oxidative stress, inflammatory response, and proliferation are crucial mediators of vascular dysfunction which contribute to the pathology of hypertension. A tripeptide, LRW (Leu-Arg-Trp), was characterized from pea protein legumin, and its previously studied isomer IRW (Ile-Arg-Trp) was reported to exhibit antihypertensive activity via activation of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2. The objective of the current study was to explore the effects of LRW on vascular stress in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) under angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced cellular stress. LRW treatment could decrease Ang II-triggered superoxide production, inflammation, and proliferation in VSMCs. The abovementioned advantageous effects appeared to involve the upregulation of the ACE2-Ang-(1-7)-MasR axis and modulation of the nuclear factor-κB pathway. These findings specified the prospective role of LRW as a functional food ingredient or nutraceutical in the prevention of cardiovascular diseases, particularly hypertension and vascular damage.
Pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan) is an important orphan crop mainly grown by smallholder farmers in India and Africa. Here, we present the first pigeon pea pangenome based on 89 accessions mainly from India and the Philippines, showing that there is significant genetic diversity in Philippine individuals that is not present in Indian individuals. Annotation of variable genes suggests that they are associated with self-fertilization and response to disease. We identified 225 SNPs associated with nine agronomically important traits over three locations and two different time points, with SNPs associated with genes for transcription factors and kinases. These results will lead the way to an improved pigeon pea breeding programme.
Protein glycation is usually referred to as an array of non-enzymatic post-translational modifications formed by reducing sugars and carbonyl products of their degradation. The resulting advanced glycation end products (AGEs) represent a heterogeneous group of covalent adducts, known for their pro-inflammatory effects in mammals, and impacting on pathogenesis of metabolic diseases and ageing. In plants, AGEs are the markers of tissue ageing and response to environmental stressors, the most prominent of which is drought. Although water deficit enhances protein glycation in leaves, its effect on seed glycation profiles is still unknown. Moreover, the effect of drought on biological activities of seed protein in mammalian systems is still unstudied with respect to glycation. Therefore, here we address the effects of a short-term drought on the patterns of seed protein-bound AGEs and accompanying alterations in pro-inflammatory properties of seed protein in the context of seed metabolome dynamics. A short-term drought, simulated as polyethylene glycol-induced osmotic stress and applied at the stage of seed filling, resulted in the dramatic suppression of primary seed metabolism, although the secondary metabolome was minimally affected. This was accompanied with significant suppression of NF-kB activation in human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells after a treatment with protein hydrolyzates, isolated from the mature seeds of drought-treated plants. This effect could not be attributed to formation of known AGEs. Most likely, the prospective anti-inflammatory effect of short-term drought is related to antioxidant effect of unknown secondary metabolite protein adducts, or down-regulation of unknown plant-specific AGEs due to suppression of energy metabolism during seed filling.
Pea powdery mildew (PM) is an important fungal disease caused by an obligate biotroph, Erysiphe pisi (Ep), which significantly impacts pea production worldwide. The phytopathogen secretes a plethora of effectors, primarily through specialized infection structures termed haustoria, to establish a dynamic relationship with its host. To identify Ep effector candidates, a cDNA library of enriched haustoria from Ep-infected pea leaves was sequenced. The Ep transcriptome encodes 622 Ep candidate secreted proteins (CSPs), of which 167 were predicted to be candidate secreted effector proteins (CSEPs). Phylogenetic analysis indicates that Ep CSEPs are highly diverse, but, unlike cereal PM CSEPs, exhibit extensive sequence similarity with effectors from other PMs. Quantitative real-time PCR of a subset of EpCSEP/CSPs revealed that the majority are preferentially expressed in haustoria and exhibit infection stage-specific expression patterns. The functional roles of EpCSEP001, EpCSEP009 and EpCSP083 were probed by host-induced gene silencing (HIGS) via a double-stranded (ds) RNA-mediated RNAi approach. Foliar application of individual EpCSEP/CSP dsRNAs resulted in a marked reduction in PM disease symptoms. These findings were consistent with microscopic and molecular studies, suggesting that these Ep CSEP/CSPs play important roles in pea PM pathogenesis. Homology modelling revealed that EpCSEP001 and EpCSEP009 are analogous to fungal ribonucleases and belong to the RALPH family of effectors. This is the first study to identify and functionally validate candidate effectors from the agriculturally relevant pea PM, and highlights the utility of transcriptomics and HIGS to elucidate the key proteins associated with Ep pathogenesis.
The key event that initiates nodule organogenesis is the perception of bacterial signal molecules, the Nod factors, triggering a complex of responses in epidermal and cortical cells of the root. The Nod factor signaling pathway interacts with plant hormones, including cytokinins and gibberellins. Activation of cytokinin signaling through the homeodomain-containing transcription factors KNOX is essential for nodule formation. The main regulators of gibberellin signaling, the DELLA proteins are also involved in regulation of nodule formation. However, the interaction between the cytokinin and gibberellin signaling pathways is not fully understood. Here, we show in
The leading cause of death in cancer patients is metastasis, for which an effective treatment is still necessary. During metastasis, cancer cells aberrantly express several glycans that are correlated with poor patient outcome. This study was aimed toward exploring the effects of O-GlcNAcylation on membranous N-glycans that are associated with the progression of cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). Global O-GlcNAcylation in CCA cells was depleted using specific siRNA against O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT), which transfers GlcNAc to the acceptor proteins. Using an HPLC-Chip/Time-of-Flight (Chip/TOF) MS system, the N-glycans associated with O-GlcNAcylation were identified by comparing the membranous N-glycans of siOGT-treated cells with those of scramble siRNA-treated cells. In parallel, the membranous N-glycans of the parental cells (KKU-213 and KKU-214) were compared with those of the highly metastatic cells (KKU-213L5 and KKU-214L5). Together, these data revealed that high mannose (Hex
Strigolactones (SLs) influence the ability of legumes to associate with nitrogen-fixing bacteria. In this study, we determine the precise stage at which SLs influence nodulation. We show that SLs promote infection thread formation, as a null SL-deficient pea (
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated phosphorylation cascade is a vital component of plant cellular signalling. Despite this, MAPK signalling cascade is less characterized in crop legumes. To fill this void, we present here a comprehensive phylogeny of MAPK kinases (MKKs) and MAPKs identified from 16 legume species belonging to genistoid (Lupinus angustifolius), dalbergioid (Arachis spp.), phaseoloid (Glycine max, Cajanus cajan, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Vigna spp.), and galegoid (Cicer arietinum, Lotus japonicus, Medicago truncatula, Pisum sativum, Trifolium spp., and Vicia faba) clades. Using the genes of the diploid crop chickpea (C. arietinum), an exhaustive interaction analysis was performed between MKKs and MAPKs by split-ubiquitin based yeast two-hybrid (Y2H). Twenty seven interactions of varying strengths were identified between chickpea MKKs and MAPKs. These interactions were verified in planta by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). As a first report in plants, four intra-molecular interactions of weak strength were identified within chickpea MKKs. Additionally; two TEOSINTE-BRANCHED1/CYCLOIDEA/PCF (TCP) transcription factors of class I were identified as novel down-stream interacting partners of seven MAPKs. We propose that this highly reliable MAPK interaction network, presented here for chickpea, can be utilized as a reference for legumes and thus will help in deciphering their role in legume-specific events.
Obesity is a risk factor for developing inflammatory bowel disease. Pea is unique with its high content of dietary fiber, polyphenolics, and glycoproteins, all of which are known to be health beneficial. We aimed to investigate the impact of green pea (GP) supplementation on the susceptibility of high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice to dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis. Six-week-old C57BL/6J female mice were fed a 45% HFD or HFD supplemented with 10% GP. After 7-week dietary supplementation, colitis was induced by adding 2.5% DSS in drinking water for 7 days followed by a 7-day recovery period. GP supplementation ameliorated the disease activity index score in HFD-fed mice during the recovery stage, and reduced neutrophil infiltration, mRNA expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and inflammatory markers interleukin (IL)-6, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), IL-17, interferon-γ (IFN-γ), and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in HFD-fed mice. Further, GP supplementation increased mucin 2 content and mRNA expression of goblet cell differentiation markers including Trefoil factor 3 (Tff3), Krüppel-like factor 4 (Klf4), and SAM pointed domain ETS factor 1 (Spdef1) in HFD-fed mice. In addition, GP ameliorated endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress as indicated by the reduced expression of Activating transcription factor-6 (ATF-6) protein and its target genes chaperone protein glucose-regulated protein 78 (Grp78), the CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein homologous protein (CHOP), the ER degradation-enhancing α-mannosidase-like 1 protein (Edem1), and the X-box binding protein 1 (Xbp1) in HFD-fed mice. In conclusion, GP supplementation ameliorated the severity of DSS-induced colitis in HFD-fed mice, which was associated with the suppression of inflammation, mucin depletion, and ER stress in the colon.
Improving nutritional seed quality is an important challenge in grain legume breeding. However, the genes controlling the differential accumulation of globulins, which are major contributors to seed nutritional value in legumes, remain largely unknown. We combined a search for protein quantity loci with genome-wide association studies on the abundance of 7S and 11S globulins in seeds of the model legume species Medicago truncatula. Identified genomic regions and genes carrying polymorphisms linked to globulin variations were then cross-compared with pea (Pisum sativum), leading to the identification of candidate genes for the regulation of globulin abundance in this crop. Key candidates identified include genes involved in transcription, chromatin remodeling, post-translational modifications, transport and targeting of proteins to storage vacuoles. Inference of a gene coexpression network of 12 candidate transcription factors and globulin genes revealed the transcription factor ABA-insensitive 5 (ABI5) as a highly connected hub. Characterization of loss-of-function abi5 mutants in pea uncovered a role for ABI5 in controlling the relative abundance of vicilin, a sulfur-poor 7S globulin, in pea seeds. This demonstrates the feasibility of using genome-wide association studies in M. truncatula to reveal genes that can be modulated to improve seed nutritional value.
The wing polyphenism of pea aphids is a compelling laboratory model with which to study the molecular mechanisms underlying phenotypic plasticity. In this polyphenism, environmental stressors such as high aphid density cause asexual, viviparous adult female aphids to alter the developmental fate of their embryos from wingless to winged morphs. This polyphenism is transgenerational, in that the pea aphid mother experiences the environmental signals, but it is her offspring that are affected. Previous research suggested that the steroid hormone ecdysone may play a role in this polyphenism. Here, we analyzed ecdysone-related gene expression patterns and found that they were consistent with a down-regulation of the ecdysone pathway being involved in the production of winged offspring. We therefore predicted that reduced ecdysone signaling would result in more winged offspring. Experimental injections of ecdysone or its analog resulted in a decreased production of winged offspring. Conversely, interfering with ecdysone signaling using an ecdysone receptor antagonist or knocking down the ecdysone receptor gene with RNAi resulted in an increased production of winged offspring. Our results are therefore consistent with the idea that ecdysone plays a causative role in the regulation of the proportion of winged offspring produced in response to crowding in this polyphenism. Our results also show that an environmentally regulated maternal hormone can mediate phenotype production in the next generation, as well as provide significant insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the functioning of transgenerational phenotypic plasticity.
The preservation of our genetic resources and production of high-quality seeds depends on their ability to remain viable and vigorous during storage. In a quantitative trait locus analysis on seed longevity in Medicago truncatula, we identified the bZIP transcription factor ABSCISIC ACID INSENSITIVE5 (ABI5). Characterization of Mt-abi5 insertion mutant seeds revealed that both the acquisition of longevity and dormancy were severely impaired. Using transcriptomes of developing Mt-abi5 seeds, we created a gene coexpression network and revealed ABI5 as a regulator of gene modules with functions related to raffinose family oligosaccharide (RFO) metabolism, late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins, and photosynthesis-associated nuclear genes (PhANGs). Lower RFO contents in Mt-abi5 seeds were linked to the regulation of SEED IMBIBITION PROTEIN1 Proteomic analysis confirmed that a set of LEA polypeptides was reduced in mature Mt-abi5 seeds, whereas the absence of repression of PhANG in mature Mt-abi5 seeds was accompanied by chlorophyll and carotenoid retention. This resulted in a stress response in Mt-abi5 seeds, evident from an increase in α-tocopherol and upregulation of genes related to programmed cell death and protein folding. Characterization of abi5 mutants in a second legume species, pea (Pisum sativum), confirmed a role for ABI5 in the regulation of longevity, seed degreening, and RFO accumulation, identifying ABI5 as a prominent regulator of late seed maturation in legumes.
Three novel actinobacterial strains, GUI2(T), GUI42 and CR21 isolated from nodular tissues and the rhizosphere of a sweet pea plant collected in Cañizal, Spain were identified according to their 16S rRNA gene sequences as new members of the genus Micromonospora. The closest phylogenetic members were found to be Micromonospora saelicesensis (99.2%) "Micromonospora zeae" (99.1%), "Micromonospora jinlongensis" (99%), Micromonospora lupini (98.9%) and Micromonospora zamorensis (98.8%). To resolve their full taxonomic position, four additional genes (atpD, gyrB, recA, rpoB) were partially sequenced and compared to available Micromonospora type strain sequences. DNA-DNA hybridization, BOX-PCR and ARDRA profiles confirmed that these strains represent a novel genomic species. All strains contained meso-diaminopimelic and hydroxy-diaminopimelic acids in their cell wall. Their fatty acid profiles comprised iso-C15:0, iso-C16:0 and anteiso-C15:0 as major components. The polar lipids diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylinositol were found in the type strain GUI2(T) which also contained MK-10(H4) as the major menaquinone. Physiological and biochemical characteristics also differentiated the new isolates. Based on the integration of the above studies, strains GUI2(T), GUI42 and CR21 represent a novel Micromonospora species and we propose the name Micromonospora luteifusca sp. nov. The type strain is GUI2(T) (=CECT 8846(T); =DSM 100204(T)).
We previously showed that Stattic V (Stat3 inhibitory compound V) reduces human sperm motility and cellular ATP levels, increases intracellular Ca(2+) concentration, and promotes mitochondrial membrane depolarization resulting in increased levels of extracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS). As these alterations in cellular function are highly similar to what is observed in a cell undergoing apoptosis, our goal was to determine if the immobilizing effect of Stattic V on spermatozoa results from apoptosis or was because of an oxidative stress. To address this question, spermatozoa were incubated with Stattic V in combination with a caspase inhibitor, a proteasome inhibitor or a cell permeant ROS scavenger. Following incubation in different conditions, sperm motility was evaluated by CASA, acrosomal integrity by FITC conjugated Pisum sativum agglutinin (PSA-FITC) labeling, intracellular pH, and mitochondrial superoxide production by flow cytometry using BCECF and MitoSoxRed dye, respectively. Levels of reduced thiols were assessed by iodoacetamidofluorescein staining on total and on sperm surface proteins, and protein tyrosine phosphorylation was evaluated by western blot. The loss in sperm motility induced by Stattic V was associated with a slight intracellular acidification and an important increase in intracellular superoxide anion. Unlike caspase and proteasome inhibitors, low molecular weight thiols, such as N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), prevented Stattic V-induced sperm immobilization and increase responsiveness to acrosome reaction inducers. NAC also efficiently prevented the production of superoxide anion, mitochondrial membrane depolarization, intracellular acidification and the oxidation of protein free thiols caused by Stattic V. These results show that the deleterious effects of Stattic V on sperm functions are caused directly or indirectly by excessive intracellular ROS production without causing sperm apoptosis or necrosis.
KNOX transcription factors (TFs) regulate different aspects of plant development essentially through their effects on phytohormone metabolism. In particular, KNOX TF SHOOTMERISTEMLESS activates the cytokinin biosynthesis ISOPENTENYL TRANSFERASE (IPT) genes in the shoot apical meristem. However, the role of KNOX TFs in symbiotic nodule development and their possible effects on phytohormone metabolism during nodulation have not been studied to date. Cytokinin is a well-known regulator of nodule development, playing the key role in the regulation of cell division during nodule primordium formation. Recently, the activation of IPT genes was shown to take place during nodulation. Therefore, it was hypothesized that KNOX TFs may regulate nodule development and activate cytokinin biosynthesis upon nodulation. This study analysed the expression of different KNOX genes in Medicago truncatula Gaertn. and Pisum sativum L. Among them, the KNOX3 gene was upregulated in response to rhizobial inoculation in both species. pKNOX3::GUS activity was observed in developing nodule primordium. KNOX3 ectopic expression caused the formation of nodule-like structures on transgenic root without bacterial inoculation, a phenotype similar to one described previously for legumes with constitutive activation of the cytokinin receptor. Furthermore, in transgenic roots with MtKNOX3 knockdown, downregulation of A-type cytokinin response genes was found, as well as the MtIPT3 and LONELYGUY2 (MtLOG2) gene being involved in cytokinin activation. Taken together, these findings suggest that KNOX3 gene is involved in symbiotic nodule development and may regulate cytokinin biosynthesis/activation upon nodule development in legume plants.
Abiotic stress factors, especially low temperatures, drought, and salinity, represent the major constraints limiting agricultural production in temperate climate. Under the conditions of global climate change, the risk of damaging effects of abiotic stresses on crop production increases. Plant stress response represents an active process aimed at an establishment of novel homeostasis under altered environmental conditions. Proteins play a crucial role in plant stress response since they are directly involved in shaping the final phenotype. In the review, results of proteomic studies focused on stress response of major crops grown in temperate climate including cereals: common wheat (Triticum aestivum), durum wheat (Triticum durum), barley (Hordeum vulgare), maize (Zea mays); leguminous plants: alfalfa (Medicago sativa), soybean (Glycine max), common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), pea (Pisum sativum); oilseed rape (Brassica napus); potato (Solanum tuberosum); tobacco (Nicotiana tabaccum); tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum); and others, to a wide range of abiotic stresses (cold, drought, salinity, heat, imbalances in mineral nutrition and heavy metals) are summarized. The dynamics of changes in various protein functional groups including signaling and regulatory proteins, transcription factors, proteins involved in protein metabolism, amino acid metabolism, metabolism of several stress-related compounds, proteins with chaperone and protective functions as well as structural proteins (cell wall components, cytoskeleton) are briefly overviewed. Attention is paid to the differences found between differentially tolerant genotypes. In addition, proteomic studies aimed at proteomic investigation of multiple stress factors are discussed. In conclusion, contribution of proteomic studies to understanding the complexity of crop response to abiotic stresses as well as possibilities to identify and utilize protein markers in crop breeding processes are discussed.
The evolution of plant reproductive strategies has led to a remarkable diversity of structures, especially within the flower, a structure characteristic of the angiosperms. In flowering plants, sexual reproduction depends notably on the development of the gynoecium that produces and protects the ovules. In Arabidopsis thaliana, ovule initiation is promoted by the concerted action of auxin with CUC1 (CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON1) and CUC2, two genes that encode transcription factors of the NAC family (NAM/ATAF1,2/CUC). Here we highlight an additional role for CUC2 and CUC3 in Arabidopsis thaliana ovule separation. While CUC1 and CUC2 are broadly expressed in the medial tissue of the gynoecium, CUC2 and CUC3 are expressed in the placental tissue between developing ovules. Consistent with the partial overlap between CUC1, CUC2 and CUC3 expression patterns, we show that CUC proteins can physically interact, both in yeast cells and in planta. We found that the cuc2;cuc3 double mutant specifically harbours defects in ovule separation, producing fused seeds that share the seed coat, and suggesting that CUC2 and CUC3 promote ovule separation in a partially redundant manner. Functional analyses show that CUC transcription factors are also involved in ovule development in Cardamine hirsuta. Additionally we show a conserved expression pattern of CUC orthologues between ovule primordia in other phylogenetically distant species with different gynoecium architectures. Taken together these results suggest an ancient role for CUC transcription factors in ovule separation, and shed light on the conservation of mechanisms involved in the development of innovative structures.
The plant hormone auxin activates primary response genes by facilitating proteolytic removal of auxin/indole-3-acetic acid (AUX/IAA)-inducible repressors, which directly bind to transcriptional auxin response factors (ARF). Most AUX/IAA and ARF proteins share highly conserved C-termini mediating homotypic and heterotypic interactions within and between both protein families. The high-resolution NMR structure of C-terminal domains III and IV of the AUX/IAA protein PsIAA4 from pea (Pisum sativum) revealed a globular ubiquitin-like β-grasp fold with homologies to the Phox and Bem1p (PB1) domain. The PB1 domain of wild-type PsIAA4 features two distinct surface patches of oppositely charged amino acid residues, mediating front-to-back multimerization via electrostatic interactions. Mutations of conserved basic or acidic residues on either face suppressed PsIAA4 PB1 homo-oligomerization in vitro and confirmed directional interaction of full-length PsIAA4 in vivo (yeast two-hybrid system). Mixing of oppositely mutated PsIAA4 PB1 monomers enabled NMR mapping of the negatively charged interface of the reconstituted PsIAA4 PB1 homodimer variant, whose stoichiometry (1:1) and equilibrium binding constant (KD ∼ 6.4 μM) were determined by isothermal titration calorimetry. In silico protein-protein docking studies based on NMR and yeast interaction data derived a model of the PsIAA4 PB1 homodimer, which is comparable with other PB1 domain dimers, but indicated considerable differences between the homodimeric interfaces of AUX/IAA and ARF PB1 domains. Our study provides an impetus for elucidating the molecular determinants that confer specificity to complex protein-protein interaction circuits between members of the two central families of transcription factors important to the regulation of auxin-responsive gene expression.
It is known that two key groups of plant hormones--auxins and cytokinins--play an important role in plant tumor development. The formation of Agrobacterium-induced tumors results from the horizontal transfer of bacterial oncogenes involved in the biosynthesis of these hormones in the plant genome. The role of transcriptional factors in plant tumor development is poorly investigated. It can be assumed that tumor development associated with abnormal cell proliferation can be controlled by the same set of transcription factors that control normal cell proliferation and, in particular, transcription factors that regulate meristem activity. In the present study, we analyzed the histological organization and distribution of proliferating cells in tumors induced by Agrobacterium tumefaciens on pea hypocotyls. In addition, the expression of a set of meristem-specific genes with Agrobacterium tumefaciens-induced tumor development was analyzed. In general, our results indicate that meristematic structures are present in A. tumefaciens-induced tumors and that the development of such tumors is associated with increased expression of a key gene regulating the root apical meristem--the WOX5 gene.
Rhizobia are able to establish a beneficial interaction with legumes by forming a new organ, called the symbiotic root nodule, which is a unique ecological niche for rhizobial nitrogen fixation. Rhizobial infection has many similarities with pathogenic infection and induction of defence responses accompanies both interactions, but defence responses are induced to a lesser extent during rhizobial infection. However, strong defence responses may result from incompatible interactions between legumes and rhizobia due to a mutation in either macro- or microsymbiont. The aim of this research was to analyse different plant defence reactions in response to Rhizobium infection for several pea (Pisum sativum) mutants that result in ineffective symbiosis. Pea mutants were examined by histochemical and immunocytochemical analyses, light, fluorescence and transmission electron microscopy and quantitative real-time PCR gene expression analysis. It was observed that mutations in pea symbiotic genes sym33 (PsIPD3/PsCYCLOPS encoding a transcriptional factor) and sym40 (PsEFD encoding a putative negative regulator of the cytokinin response) led to suberin depositions in ineffective nodules, and in the sym42 there were callose depositions in infection thread (IT) and host cell walls. The increase in deposition of unesterified pectin in IT walls was observed for mutants in the sym33 and sym42; for mutant in the sym42, unesterified pectin was also found around degrading bacteroids. In mutants in the genes sym33 and sym40, an increase in the expression level of a gene encoding peroxidase was observed. In the genes sym40 and sym42, an increase in the expression levels of genes encoding a marker of hypersensitive reaction and PR10 protein was demonstrated. Thus, a range of plant defence responses like suberisation, callose and unesterified pectin deposition as well as activation of defence genes can be triggered by different pea single mutations that cause perception of an otherwise beneficial strain of Rhizobium as a pathogen.
EaDREB2 overexpressed in sugarcane enhanced tolerance to drought and salinity. When co-transformed with plant DNA helicase gene, DREB2 showed greater level of salinity tolerance than in single-gene transgenics. Drought is one of the most challenging agricultural issues limiting sustainable sugarcane production and can potentially cause up to 50 % yield loss. DREB proteins play a vital regulatory role in abiotic stress tolerance in plants. We previously reported that expression of EaDREB2 is enhanced by drought stress in Erianthus arundinaceus. In this study, we have isolated the DREB2 gene from E. arundinaceus, transformed one of the most popular sugarcane variety Co 86032 in tropical India with EaDREB2 through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation, pyramided the EaDREB2 gene with the gene coding for PDH45 driven by Port Ubi 2.3 promoter through particle bombardment and evaluated the V1 transgenics for soil deficit moisture and salinity stresses. Soil moisture stress was imposed at the tillering phase by withholding irrigation. Physiological, molecular and morphological parameters were used to assess drought tolerance. Salinity tolerance was assessed through leaf disc senescence and bud sprout assays under salinity stress. Our results indicate that overexpression of EaDREB2 in sugarcane enhances drought and salinity tolerance to a greater extent than the untransformed control plants. This is the first report of the co-transformation of EaDREB2 and PDH45 which shows higher salinity tolerance but lower drought tolerance than EaDREB2 alone. The present study seems to suggest that, for combining drought and salinity tolerance together, co-transformation is a better approach.
CRABS CLAW (CRC) is a member of the YABBY family of transcription factors involved in carpel morphogenesis, floral determinacy and nectary specification in arabidopsis. CRC orthologues have been functionally characterized across angiosperms, revealing additional roles in leaf vascular development and carpel identity specification in Poaceae. These studies support an ancestral role of CRC orthologues in carpel development, while roles in vascular development and nectary specification appear to be derived. This study aimed to expand research on CRC functional conservation to the legume family in order to better understand the evolutionary history of CRC orthologues in angiosperms. CRC orthologues from Pisum sativum and Medicago truncatula were identified. RNA in situ hybridization experiments determined the corresponding expression patterns throughout flower development. The phenotypic effects of reduced CRC activity were investigated in P. sativum using virus-induced gene silencing. CRC orthologues from P. sativum and M. truncatula showed similar expression patterns, mainly restricted to carpels and nectaries. However, these expression patterns differed from those of other core eudicots, most importantly in a lack of abaxial expression in the carpel and in atypical expression associated with the medial vein of the ovary. CRC downregulation in pea caused defects in carpel fusion and style/stigma development, both typically associated with CRC function in eudicots, but also affected vascular development in the carpel. The data support the conserved roles of CRC orthologues in carpel fusion, style/stigma development and nectary development. In addition, an intriguing new aspect of CRC function in legumes was the unexpected role in vascular development, which could be shared by other species from widely diverged clades within the angiosperms, suggesting that this role could be ancestral rather than derived, as so far generally accepted.
In Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae, quorum-sensing is regulated by CinR, which induces the cinIS operon. CinI synthesizes an AHL, whereas CinS inactivates PraR, a repressor. Mutation of praR enhanced biofilms in vitro. We developed a light (lux)-dependent assay of rhizobial attachment to roots and demonstrated that mutation of praR increased biofilms on pea roots. The praR mutant out-competed wild-type for infection of pea nodules in mixed inoculations. Analysis of gene expression by microarrays and promoter fusions revealed that PraR represses its own transcription and mutation of praR increased expression of several genes including those encoding secreted proteins (the adhesins RapA2, RapB and RapC, two cadherins and the glycanase PlyB), the polysaccharide regulator RosR, and another protein similar to PraR. PraR bound to the promoters of several of these genes indicating direct repression. Mutations in rapA2, rapB, rapC, plyB, the cadherins or rosR did not affect the enhanced root attachment or nodule competitiveness of the praR mutant. However combinations of mutations in rapA, rapB and rapC abolished the enhanced attachment and nodule competitiveness. We conclude that relief of PraR-mediated repression determines a lifestyle switch allowing the expression of genes that are important for biofilm formation on roots and the subsequent initiation of infection of legume roots.
Leaf form and development are controlled genetically. The ARP genes encode MYB transcription factors that interact with Class 1 KNOX genes in a regulatory module that controls meristem-leaf determinations and is highly conserved in plants. ARP loss of function alleles and subsequent KNOX1 overexpression cause many unusual leaf phenotypes including loss or partial loss of the ability to produce a lamina and production of "knots" on leaf blades. CRISPA (CRI) is the ARP gene in pea, and a number of its mutant alleles are known. We made morphological and anatomical evaluations of cri-1 mutant plants while controlling for genetic background and for heteroblastic effects, and we used aldehyde fixation and resin preparations for anatomical analysis. Further, we compared gene expression in WT and cri-1 shoot tips and HOP1/PsKN1 and CRI expression in other leaf mutants. The cri-1 plants had more extensive abnormalities in the proximal than in the distal regions of the leaf, including ectopic stipules, narrow leaflets, and shortened petioles with excessive adaxial expansion. "Knots" were morphologically and anatomically variable but consisted of vascularized out-pocketing of the adaxial leaflet surface. HOP1/PsKN1 and UNI mRNA levels were higher in cri-1 shoot tips, and some auxin-regulated genes were lower. Low LE expression suggests that the GA level is high in cri-1 shoot tips. The CRISPA gene of pea suppresses KNOX1 genes and UNI and functions to (1) maintain proximal-distal regions in their appropriate positions, (2) restrict excessive adaxial cell proliferation, and (3) promote laminar expansion.
Chickpea is the world's third most important legume crop and belongs to Fabaceae family but suffered from severe yield loss due to various biotic and abiotic stresses. Development of modern genomic tools such as molecular markers and identification of resistant genes associated with these stresses facilitate improvement in chickpea breeding towards abiotic stress tolerance. In this study, 1597 high-quality expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were generated from a cDNA library of variety Pusa 1105 root tissue after cadmium (Cd) treatment. Assembly of ESTs resulted in a total of 914 unigenes of which putative homology was obtained for 38.8 % of unigenes after BLASTX search. In terms of species distribution, majority of sequences found similarity with Medicago truncatula followed by Glycine max, Vitis vinifera and Populus trichocarpa and Pisum sativum sequences. Functional annotation was assigned using Blast2Go, and the Gene Ontology (GO) terms were categorized into biological process, molecular function and cellular component. Approximately 10.83 % of unigenes were assigned at least one GO term. Moreover, in the distribution of transcripts into various biological pathways, 20 of the annotated transcripts were assigned to ten pathways in KEGG database. A majority of the genes were found to be involved in sulphur and nitrogen metabolism. In the quantitative real-time PCR analysis, five of the transcription factors and three of the transporter genes were found to be highly expressed after Cd treatment. Besides, the utility of ESTs was demonstrated by exploiting them for the development of 83 genic molecular markers including EST-simple sequence repeats and intron targeted polymorphism that would assist in tagging of genes related to metal stress for future prospects.
A gene encoding a homolog to the cation diffusion facilitator protein DmeF from Cupriavidus metallidurans has been identified in the genome of Rhizobium leguminosarum UPM791. The R. leguminosarum dmeF gene is located downstream of an open reading frame (designated dmeR) encoding a protein homologous to the nickel- and cobalt-responsive transcriptional regulator RcnR from Escherichia coli. Analysis of gene expression showed that the R. leguminosarum dmeRF genes are organized as a transcriptional unit whose expression is strongly induced by nickel and cobalt ions, likely by alleviating the repressor activity of DmeR on dmeRF transcription. An R. leguminosarum dmeRF mutant strain displayed increased sensitivity to Co(II) and Ni(II), whereas no alterations of its resistance to Cd(II), Cu(II), or Zn(II) were observed. A decrease of symbiotic performance was observed when pea plants inoculated with an R. leguminosarum dmeRF deletion mutant strain were grown in the presence of high concentrations of nickel and cobalt. The same mutant induced significantly lower activity levels of NiFe hydrogenase in microaerobic cultures. These results indicate that the R. leguminosarum DmeRF system is a metal-responsive efflux mechanism acting as a key element for metal homeostasis in R. leguminosarum under free-living and symbiotic conditions. The presence of similar dmeRF gene clusters in other Rhizobiaceae suggests that the dmeRF system is a conserved mechanism for metal tolerance in legume endosymbiotic bacteria.
In a previous work, it was shown that bicarbonate (one of the most important factors causing Fe chlorosis in Strategy I plants) can limit the expression of several genes involved in Fe acquisition. Hypoxia is considered another important factor causing Fe chlorosis, mainly on calcareous soils. However, to date it is not known whether hypoxia aggravates Fe chlorosis by affecting bicarbonate concentration or by specific negative effects on Fe acquisition. Results found in this work show that hypoxia, generated by eliminating the aeration of the nutrient solution, can limit the expression of several Fe acquisition genes in Fe-deficient Arabidopsis, cucumber and pea plants, like the genes for ferric reductases AtFRO2, PsFRO1 and CsFRO1; iron transporters AtIRT1, PsRIT1 and CsIRT1; H(+) -ATPase CsHA1; and transcription factors AtFIT, AtbHLH38, and AtbHLH39. Interestingly, the limitation of the expression of Fe-acquisition genes by hypoxia did not occur in the Arabidopsis ethylene constitutive mutant ctr1, which suggests that the negative effect of hypoxia is related to ethylene, an hormone involved in the upregulation of Fe acquisition genes. As for hypoxia, results obtained by applying bicarbonate to the nutrient solution suggests that ethylene is also involved in its negative effect, since ACC (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid; ethylene precursor) partially reversed the negative effect of bicarbonate on the expression of Fe acquisition genes. Taken together, the results obtained show that hypoxia and bicarbonate could induce Fe chlorosis by limiting the expression of Fe acquisition genes, probably because each factor negatively affects different steps of ethylene synthesis and/or signaling.
In angiosperms, leaf and stipule architectures are inherited species-specific traits. Variation in leaf and stipule sizes, and forms result from the interaction between abiotic and biotic stimuli, and gene regulatory network(s) that underlie the leaf and stipule developmental programme(s). Here, correspondence between variation in leaf and stipule architectures described for extant angiosperms and that induced mutationally and by imposition of stress in model angiosperm species, especially in Pisum sativum, was detected. Following inferences were drawn from the observations. (i) Several leaf forms in P. sativum have origin in fusion of stipule and leaf primordia. Perfoliate (and amplexicaul and connate) simple sessile leaves and sessile adnate leaves are the result of such primordial fusions. Reversal of changes in the gene regulatory network responsible for fusion products are thought to restore original stipule and leaf conditions. (ii) Compound leaf formation in several different model plants, is a result of promotion of pathways for such condition by gene regulatory networks directed by KNOx1 and LEAFY transcription factors or intercalation of the gene networks directed by them. (iii) Gene regulatory network for compound leaves in P. sativum when mutated generates highly complex compound leaves on one hand and simple leaves on other hand. These altered conditions are mutationally reversible. (vi) Simple leaves in model plants such as Arabidopsis thaliana despite overexpression of KNOx1 orthologues do not become compound. (v) All forms of leaves, including simple leaf, probably have origins in a gene regulatory network of the kind present in P. sativum.
Gene expression profiles of the biological control strain Pseudomonas protegens Pf-5 inhabiting pea seed surfaces were revealed using a whole-genome oligonucleotide microarray. We identified genes expressed by Pf-5 under the control of two global regulators (GacA and RpoS) known to influence biological control and secondary metabolism. Transcript levels of 897 genes, including many with unknown functions as well as those for biofilm formation, cyclic diguanylate (c-di-GMP) signalling, iron homeostasis and secondary metabolism, were influenced by one or both regulators, providing evidence for expression of these genes by Pf-5 on seed surfaces. Comparison of the GacA and RpoS transcriptomes defined for Pf-5 grown on seed versus in broth culture overlapped, but most genes were regulated by GacA or RpoS under only one condition, likely due to differing levels of expression in the two conditions. We quantified secondary metabolites produced by Pf-5 and gacA and rpoS mutants on seed and in culture, and found that production profiles corresponded generally with biosynthetic gene expression profiles. Future studies evaluating biological control mechanisms can now focus on genes expressed by Pf-5 on seed surfaces, the habitat where the bacterium interacts with seed-infecting pathogens to suppress seedling diseases.
Previous research showed that auxin, ethylene, and nitric oxide (NO) can activate the expression of iron (Fe)-acquisition genes in the roots of Strategy I plants grown with low levels of Fe, but not in plants grown with high levels of Fe. However, it is still an open question as to how Fe acts as an inhibitor and which pool of Fe (e.g., root, phloem, etc.) in the plant acts as the key regulator for gene expression control. To further clarify this, we studied the effect of the foliar application of Fe on the expression of Fe-acquisition genes in several Strategy I plants, including wild-type cultivars of Arabidopsis [Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh], pea [Pisum sativum L.], tomato [Solanum lycopersicon Mill.], and cucumber [Cucumis sativus L.], as well as mutants showing constitutive expression of Fe-acquisition genes when grown under Fe-sufficient conditions [Arabidopsis opt3-2 and frd3-3, pea dgl and brz, and tomato chln (chloronerva)]. The results showed that the foliar application of Fe blocked the expression of Fe-acquisition genes in the wild-type cultivars and in the frd3-3, brz, and chln mutants, but not in the opt3-2 and dgl mutants, probably affected in the transport of a Fe-related repressive signal in the phloem. Moreover, the addition of either ACC (ethylene precursor) or GSNO (NO donor) to Fe-deficient plants up-regulated the expression of Fe-acquisition genes, but this effect did not occur in Fe-deficient plants sprayed with foliar Fe, again suggesting the existence of a Fe-related repressive signal moving from leaves to roots.
During organ development, many key regulators have been identified in plant genomes, which play a conserved role among plant species to control the organ identities and/or determine the organ size and shape. It is intriguing whether these key regulators can acquire diverse function and be integrated into different molecular pathways among different species, giving rise to the immense diversity of organ forms in nature. In this study, we have characterized and cloned LATHYROIDES (LATH), a classical locus in pea, whose mutation displays pleiotropic alteration of lateral growth of organs and predominant effects on tendril and dorsal petal development. LATH encodes a WUSCHEL-related homeobox1 (WOX1) transcription factor, which has a conserved function in determining organ lateral growth among different plant species. Furthermore, we showed that LATH regulated the expression level of TENDRIL-LESS (TL), a key factor in the control of tendril development in compound leaf, and LATH genetically interacted with LOBED STANDARD (LST), a floral dorsal factor, to affect the dorsal petal identity. Thus, LATH plays multiple roles during organ development in pea: it maintains a conserved function controlling organ lateral outgrowth, and modulates organ identities in compound leaf and zygomorphic flower development, respectively. Our data indicated that a key regulator can play important roles in different aspects of organ development and dedicate to the complexity of the molecular mechanism in the control of organ development so as to create distinct organ forms in different species.
Thioredoxins (TRXs) f and m are key components in the light regulation of photosynthetic metabolism via thiol-dithiol modulation in chloroplasts of leaves; however, little is known about the factors modulating the expression of these proteins. To investigate the effect of sugars as photosynthetic products on the expression of PsTRX f and m1 genes, sucrose and glucose were externally supplied to pea plants during the day. There was an increase in the mRNA levels of PsTRX f and m1 genes in response mainly to glucose. When leaf discs were incubated for up to 4h in the dark, glucose also led to an increase in both mRNA and protein levels of TRXs f and m, while sucrose had no substantial effect. Expression of PsDOF7, a carbon metabolism-related transcription factor gene, was also induced by glucose. Protein-DNA interaction showed that PsDOF7 binds specifically to the DOF core located in PsTRX f and m1 gene promoters. Transient expression in agroinfiltrated pea leaves demonstrated that PsDOF7 activated transcription of both promoters. The incubation of leaf discs in dithiotreitol (DTT) to increase the redox status led to a marked increase in the mRNA and protein levels of both TRXs within 4h. The increase in TRX protein levels occurred after 1h DTT feeding, implying a rapid effect of the thiol status on TRX f and m1 protein turnover rates, while transcriptional regulation took 3h to proceed. These results show that the protein levels of both TRXs are under short-term control of the sugar and thiol status in plants.
Plants exhibit various kinds of movements that have fascinated scientists and the public for centuries. Physiological studies in plants with the so-called motor organ or pulvinus suggest that cells at opposite sides of the pulvinus mediate leaf or leaflet movements by swelling and shrinking. How motor organ identity is determined is unknown. Using a genetic approach, we isolated a mutant designated elongated petiolule1 (elp1) from Medicago truncatula that fails to fold its leaflets in the dark due to loss of motor organs. Map-based cloning indicated that ELP1 encodes a putative plant-specific LOB domain transcription factor. RNA in situ analysis revealed that ELP1 is expressed in primordial cells that give rise to the motor organ. Ectopic expression of ELP1 resulted in dwarf plants with petioles and rachises reduced in length, and the epidermal cells gained characteristics of motor organ epidermal cells. By identifying ELP1 orthologs from other legume species, namely pea (Pisum sativum) and Lotus japonicus, we show that this motor organ identity is regulated by a conserved molecular mechanism.
Unravelling the basis of variation in inflorescence architecture is important to understanding how the huge diversity in plant form has been generated. Inflorescences are divided between simple, as in Arabidopsis, with flowers directly formed at the main primary inflorescence axis, and compound, as in legumes, where they are formed at secondary or even higher order axes. The formation of secondary inflorescences predicts a novel genetic function in the development of the compound inflorescences. Here we show that in pea this function is controlled by VEGETATIVE1 (VEG1), whose mutation replaces secondary inflorescences by vegetative branches. We identify VEG1 as an AGL79-like MADS-box gene that specifies secondary inflorescence meristem identity. VEG1 misexpression in meristem identity mutants causes ectopic secondary inflorescence formation, suggesting a model for compound inflorescence development based on antagonistic interactions between VEG1 and genes conferring primary inflorescence and floral identity. Our study defines a novel mechanism to generate inflorescence complexity.
Plasmid curing has shown that the ability to use glycerol as a carbon source is plasmid-encoded in Rhizobium leguminosarum. We isolated the locus responsible for glycerol utilization from plasmid pRleVF39c in R. leguminosarum bv. viciae VF39. This region was analyzed by DNA sequencing and mutagenesis. The locus encompasses a gene encoding GlpR (a DeoR regulator), genes encoding an ABC transporter, and genes glpK and glpD, encoding a kinase and dehydrogenase, respectively. All the genes except the regulatory gene glpR were organized into a single operon, and were required for growth on glycerol. The glp operon was strongly induced by both glycerol and glycerol 3-phosphate, as well as by pea seed exudate. GlpR repressed the operon in the absence of inducer. Mutation of genes encoding the ABC transporter abolished all transport of glycerol in transport assays using radiolabelled glycerol. This confirms that, unlike in other organisms such as Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which use facilitated diffusion, glycerol uptake occurs by an active process in R. leguminosarum. Since the glp locus is highly conserved in all sequenced R. leguminosarum and Rhizobium etli strains, as well as in Sinorhizobium spp. and Agrobacterium spp. and other alphaproteobacteria, this process for glycerol uptake is probably widespread. Mutants unable to use glycerol were deficient in competitiveness for nodulation of peas compared with the wild-type, suggesting that glycerol catabolism confers an advantage upon the bacterium in the rhizosphere or in the infection thread.
In legumes, the symbiotic nodules are formed as a result of dedifferentiation and reactivation of cortical root cells. A shoot-acting receptor complex, similar to the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) CLAVATA1 (CLV1)/CLV2 receptor, regulating development of the shoot apical meristem, is involved in autoregulation of nodulation (AON), a mechanism that systemically controls nodule number. The targets of CLV1/CLV2 in the shoot apical meristem, the WUSCHEL (WUS)-RELATED HOMEOBOX (WOX) family transcription factors, have been proposed to be important regulators of apical meristem maintenance and to be expressed in apical meristem "organizers." Here, we focus on the role of the WOX5 transcription factor upon nodulation in Medicago truncatula and pea (Pisum sativum) that form indeterminate nodules. Analysis of temporal WOX5 expression during nodulation with quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and promoter-reporter fusion revealed that the WOX5 gene was expressed during nodule organogenesis, suggesting that WOX genes are common regulators of cell proliferation in different systems. Furthermore, in nodules of supernodulating mutants, defective in AON, WOX5 expression was higher than that in wild-type nodules. Hence, a conserved WUS/WOX-CLV regulatory system might control cell proliferation and differentiation not only in the root and shoot apical meristems but also in nodule meristems. In addition, the link between nodule-derived CLE peptides activating AON in different legumes and components of the AON system was investigated. We demonstrate that the identified AON component, NODULATION3 of pea, might act downstream from or beside the CLE peptides during AON.
Two-component signal transduction systems (TCS) are a main strategy used by bacteria to sense and adapt to changes in their environment. In the legume symbiont Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar viciae VF39, mutation of chvG, a histidine kinase, caused a number of pleiotropic phenotypes. ChvG mutants are unable to grow on proline, glutamate, histidine, or arginine as the sole carbon source. The chvG mutant secreted smaller amounts of acidic and neutral surface polysaccharides and accumulated abnormally large amounts of poly-ß-hydroxybutyrate. Mutation of chvG caused symbiotic defects on peas, lentils, and vetch; nodules formed by the chvG mutant were small and white and contained only a few cells that had failed to differentiate into bacteroids. Mutation of chvG also destabilized the outer membrane of R. leguminosarum, resulting in increased sensitivity to membrane stressors. Constitutive expression of ropB, the outer membrane protein-encoding gene, restored membrane stability and rescued the sensitivity phenotypes described above. Similar phenotypes have been described for mutations in other ChvG-regulated genes encoding a conserved operon of unknown function and in the fabXL genes required for synthesis of the lipid A very-long-chain fatty acid, suggesting that ChvG is a key component of the envelope stress response in Rhizobium leguminosarum. Collectively, the results of this study demonstrate the important and unique role the ChvG/ChvI TCS plays in the physiology, metabolism, and symbiotic competency of R. leguminosarum.
The function of PsBRC1, the pea (Pisum sativum) homolog of the maize (Zea mays) TEOSINTE BRANCHED1 and the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) BRANCHED1 (AtBRC1) genes, was investigated. The pea Psbrc1 mutant displays an increased shoot-branching phenotype, is able to synthesize strigolactone (SL), and does not respond to SL application. The level of pleiotropy of the SL-deficient ramosus1 (rms1) mutant is higher than in the Psbrc1 mutant, rms1 exhibiting a relatively dwarf phenotype and more extensive branching at upper nodes. The PsBRC1 gene is mostly expressed in the axillary bud and is transcriptionally up-regulated by direct application of the synthetic SL GR24 and down-regulated by the cytokinin (CK) 6-benzylaminopurine. The results suggest that PsBRC1 may have a role in integrating SL and CK signals and that SLs act directly within the bud to regulate its outgrowth. However, the Psbrc1 mutant responds to 6-benzylaminopurine application and decapitation by increasing axillary bud length, implicating a PsBRC1-independent component of the CK response in sustained bud growth. In contrast to other SL-related mutants, the Psbrc1 mutation does not cause a decrease in the CK zeatin riboside in the xylem sap or a strong increase in RMS1 transcript levels, suggesting that the RMS2-dependent feedback is not activated in this mutant. Surprisingly, the double rms1 Psbrc1 mutant displays a strong increase in numbers of branches at cotyledonary nodes, whereas branching at upper nodes is not significantly higher than the branching in rms1. This phenotype indicates a localized regulation of branching at these nodes specific to pea.
Cytokinin (CK) has long been implicated as a promoter of bud outgrowth in plants, but exactly how this is achieved in coordination with other plant hormones is unclear. The recent discovery of strigolactones (SLs) as the long-sought branch-inhibiting hormone allowed us to test how CK and SL coordinately regulate bud outgrowth in pea (Pisum sativum). We found that SL-deficient plants are more sensitive to stimulation of bud growth by low concentrations of locally applied CK than wild-type plants. Furthermore, in contrast with SL mutant plants, buds of wild-type plants are almost completely resistant to stimulation by CK supplied to the vasculature. Regardless of whether the exogenous hormones were supplied locally or to the xylem stream, SL and CK acted antagonistically on bud outgrowth. These data suggest that SLs do not affect the delivery of CK to axillary buds and vice versa. Rather, these data combined with dose-response experiments suggest that SLs and CK can act directly in buds to control their outgrowth. These hormones may converge at a common point in the bud outgrowth regulatory pathway. The expression of pea BRANCHED1, a TCP transcription factor expressed strongly in buds and thought to act downstream of SLs in shoot branching, is regulated by CK and SL without a requirement for protein synthesis and in a manner that correlates with observed bud growth responses.
In recent years, the role of WOX genes encoding homeodomain transcription factors in the development of the apical meristem of shoots and roots has been actively investigated. However, the role of WOX genes in the control of the cell proliferation in other meristem types is poorly studied. In our work, we have studied the role of the WOX5 gene in the development of the meristem in nitrogen-fixing nodules developing on the roots of legumes in a symbiosis with rhizobia. We have shown that the WOX5 gene is involved in the development of the nodule meristem in legumes, have quantitatively evaluated the gene's expression at different nodule formation stages, and have studied the localization of its expression using a construction containing the WOX5 promoter conjugated with a reporter gene. The role of the WOX5 transcription factor in the nodule organogenesis and its possible interaction with the hormonal system in the course of the nodule development has been discussed.
Helicases are motor proteins that can transiently catalyze the unwinding of energetically stable duplex DNA or RNA molecules by using ATP hydrolysis as the source of energy. Many helicases share a core region of highly conserved sequence motifs, and belong to the rapidly growing DEAD-box protein family. Pea DNA helicase 45 (PDH45), that exhibits striking homology with eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A (eIF4A), contains ATP-dependent DNA and RNA helicase, DNA-dependent ATPase, and ATP-binding activities. The transcript of the PDH45 gene was reported to be upregulated in pea plant in response to high salinity, cold stress, abscisic acid (ABA), dehydration and early wounding. The first direct evidence that overexpression of PDH45 confers salinity stress tolerance without yield loss has also been reported. A promoter analysis of PDH45 gene has not been studied. The cis-regulatory elements present on promoter region of the gene act as binding sites for RNA polymerase and transcription factors and control the regulation of gene expression. Here we report the promoter of the PDH45 gene that contains stress-responsive cis-regulatory elements which may be responsible for regulating the expression of PDH45 under abiotic stress conditions.
This chapter focuses on the techniques of chloroplast isolation; their fractionation into envelopes, stroma, and thylakoids; and their further use for in vitro protein transport assays. In addition to the isolation of thylakoids, this chapter also describes the experimental steps of both protein translocation across the thylakoid membrane and protein integration into the membrane. Protein translocation and integration can be analysed by the radioactive labelling of substrate proteins using an in vitro transcription and translation system. The translocated or integrated proteins can then be detected by autoradiography. Our protocol allows the analysis of these transport systems in wild-type Arabidopsis or mutants that lack or overexpress soluble or membrane transport factors that could be of potential interest.
Aspects of transcriptional regulation in plants, such as the order in which transcriptional factors and the preinitiation complex are assembled, are obscure because studies carried out under conditions in which native chromatin structure is preserved are still few in comparison with those carried out under other conditions. In vivo chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments were used here to study the regulation of Pisum sativum psp54, which codes for the precursor of a chromatin-associated protein in dry seeds. Antibodies against PsSNF5, a component of the SWI/SNF remodelling complex, and against the transcriptional factor Pisum sativum abscisic acid insensitive 3 (PsABI3) were raised and used for ChIP experiments, which showed that both factors are bound to the psp54 promoter only when the gene is actively expressed during seed maturation and germination. However, RNA polymerase II appeared to be bound to the inactive promoter, which was poised for transcription, before the assembly of factors. Micrococcal nuclease protection assays showed that chromatin conformation at the proximal psp54 promoter changes in shifting from the active to inactive state. The changes in the promoter chromatin of psp54 are discussed. Stalled polymerase is described for the first time at the promoter of a non-heat-shock plant gene.
Leaf morphogenesis, including that of compound leaves, provides the basis for the great diversity of leaf form among higher plants. Leaf form is an important character by which plants adapt to their environment. The common garden pea provides a developmental model system for understanding leaf development in the legumes and a contrasting one for other groups of plants. We used genetic, tissue culture, and physiological methods, as well as DR5::GUS expression and qRT-PCR, to explore the interactions between the hormones gibberellic acid (GA) and auxin and Unifoliata ( UNI ) gene expression that control leaf morphogenesis in pea. Rate of increase in leaf complexity during shoot ontogeny (i.e., heteroblasty) and adult leaf complexity are controlled by GA through UNI . Leaves on greenhouse-grown uni-tac mutants are rescued by weekly GA or auxin applications. Auxin responsiveness is reduced in uni-tac shoot and root tips and in wild-type shoot tips treated with auxin transport inhibitors. GA and auxin increase UNI mRNA levels in uni-tac as well as that of other transcription factors. GA and auxin positively promote leaf dissection during leaf morphogenesis in pea by prolonging the time during which acropetally initiated pinna pairs are produced. GA-generated elaboration of leaf morphogenesis is in distinct contrast to that in other species, such as tomato and Cardamine . Instead, GA and auxin play common and supportive roles in pea leaf morphogenesis as they do in many other aspects of plant development
In legumes, perception of rhizobial lipochitooligosacharide-based molecules (Nod factors) and subsequent signal transduction triggers transcription of plant symbiosis-specific genes (early nodulins). We present genetic dissection of Nod factor-controlled processes in Pisum sativum using two early nodulin genes PsENOD12a and PsENOD5, that are differentially up-regulated during symbiosis. A novel set of non-nodulating pea mutants in fourteen loci was examined, among which seven loci are not described in Lotus japonicus and Medicago truncatula. Mutants defective in Pssym10, Pssym8, Pssym19, Pssym9 and Pssym7 exhibited no PsENOD12a and PsENOD5 activation in response to Nod factor-producing rhizobia. Thus, a conserved signalling module from the LysM receptor kinase encoded by Pssym10 down to the GRAS transcription factor encoded by Pssym7 is essential for Nod factor-induced gene expression. Of the two investigated genes, PsENOD5 was more strictly regulated; not only requiring the SYM10-SYM7 module, but also SYM35 (NIN transcription factor), SYM14, SYM16 and SYM34. Since Pssym35, Pssym14, Pssym34 and Pssym16 mutants show arrested infection and nodule formation at various stages, PsENOD5 expression seems to be essential for later symbiotic events, when rhizobia enter into plant tissues. Activation of PsENOD12a only requires components involved in early steps of signalling and can be considered as a marker of early symbiotic events preceding infection.
Chloroplastic thioredoxins f and m (TRX f and TRX m) mediate light regulation of carbon metabolism through the activation of Calvin cycle enzymes. The role of TRX f and m in the activation of Calvin cycle enzymes is best known among the TRX family. However, the discoveries of new potential targets extend the functions of chloroplastic TRXs to other processes in non-photosynthetic tissues. As occurs with numerous chloroplast proteins, their expression comes under light regulation. Here, the focus is on the light regulation of TRX f and TRX m in pea and Arabidopsis during the day/night cycle that is maintained during the subjective night. In pea (Pisum sativum), TRX f and TRX m1 expression is shown to be governed by a circadian oscillation exerted at both the transcriptional and protein levels. Binding shift assays indicate that this control probably involves the interaction of the CCA1 transcription factor and an evening element (EE) located in the PsTRX f and PsTRX m1 promoters. In Arabidopsis, among the multigene family of TRX f and TRX m, AtTRX f2 and AtTRX m2 mRNA showed similar circadian oscillatory regulation, suggesting that such regulation is conserved in plants. However, this oscillation was disrupted in plants overexpressing CCA1 (cca1-ox) or repressing CCA1 and LHY (cca1-lhy). The physiological role of the oscillatory regulation of chloroplastic TRX f and TRX m in plants during the day/night cycle is discussed.
The pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum) is the first whole genome sequenced insect with a hemimetabolic development and an emerging model organism for studies in ecology, evolution and development. The insect steroid moulting hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) controls and coordinates development in insects, especially the moulting/metamorphosis process. We, therefore present here a comprehensive characterization of the Halloween genes phantom, disembodied, shadow, shade, spook and spookiest, coding for the P450 enzymes that control the biosynthesis of 20E. Regarding the presence of nuclear receptors in the pea aphid genome, we found 19 genes, representing all of the seven known subfamilies. The annotation and phylogenetic analysis revealed a strong conservation in the class of Insecta. But compared with other sequenced insect genomes, three orthologues are missing in the Acyrthosiphon genome, namely HR96, PNR-like and Knirps. We also cloned the EcR, Usp, E75 and HR3. Finally, 3D-modelling of the ligand-binding domain of Ap-EcR exhibited the typical canonical structural scaffold with 12 alpha-helices associated with a short hairpin of two antiparallel beta-strands. Upon docking, 20E was located in the hormone-binding groove, supporting the hypothesis that EcR has a role in 20E signalling.
The molecular basis of circadian clocks is highly evolutionarily conserved and has been best characterized in Drosophila and mouse. Analysis of the Acyrthosiphon pisum genome revealed the presence of orthologs of the following genes constituting the core of the circadian clock in Drosophila: period (per), timeless (tim), Clock, cycle, vrille, and Pdp1. However, the presence in A. pisum of orthologs of a mammal-type in addition to a Drosophila-type cryptochrome places the putative aphid clockwork closer to the ancestral insect system than to the Drosophila one. Most notably, five of these putative aphid core clock genes are highly divergent and exhibit accelerated rates of change (especially per and tim orthologs) suggesting that the aphid circadian clock has evolved to adapt to (unknown) aphid-specific needs. Additionally, with the exception of jetlag (absent in the aphid) other genes included in the Drosophila circadian clock repertoire were found to be conserved in A. pisum. Expression analysis revealed circadian rhythmicity for some core genes as well as a significant effect of photoperiod in the amplitude of oscillations.
In the dipteran Drosophila, the genes bicoid and hunchback work synergistically to pattern the anterior blastoderm during embryogenesis. bicoid, however, appears to be an innovation of the higher Diptera. Hence, in some non-dipteran insects, anterior specification instead relies on a synergistic interaction between maternally transcribed hunchback and orthodenticle. Here we describe how orthologues of hunchback and orthodenticle are expressed during oogenesis and embryogenesis in the parthenogenetic and viviparous form of the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum. A. pisum hunchback (Aphb) mRNA is localized to the anterior pole in developing oocytes and early embryos prior to blastoderm formation - a pattern strongly reminiscent of bicoid localization in Drosophila. A. pisum orthodenticle (Apotd), on the other hand, is not expressed prior to gastrulation, suggesting that it is the asymmetric localization of Aphb, rather than synergy between Aphb and Apotd, that regulates anterior specification in asexual pea aphids.
Aphids exhibit unique attributes, such as polyphenisms and specialized cells to house endosymbionts, that make them an interesting system for studies at the interface of ecology, evolution and development. Here we present a comprehensive characterization of the developmental genes in the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum, and compare our results to other sequenced insects. We investigated genes involved in fundamental developmental processes such as establishment of the body plan and organogenesis, focusing on transcription factors and components of signalling pathways. We found that most developmental genes were well conserved in the pea aphid, although many lineage-specific gene duplications and gene losses have occurred in several gene families. In particular, genetic components of transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) Wnt, JAK/STAT (Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription) and EGF (Epidermal Growth Factor) pathways appear to have been significantly modified in the pea aphid.
Reverse transcription quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction is the most accurate measure of gene expression in biological systems. The data are analyzed through a process called normalization. Internal standards are essential for determining the relative gene expression in different samples. For this purpose, reference genes are selected based on their constitutive expression across samples. At present, there has not yet been any reference gene identified in any organism that is universally optimal across different tissue types or disease situations. Our goal was to test the regulation of 11 potential references for pea. These included eight commonly used and three new candidates. Twenty-six samples, including different tissues, treatments and genotypes, were addressed in this analysis. For reliable data normalization, the most suitable combination of reference genes in each experimental set was constructed with at least two out the five more stably expressed references in the whole experimental series (i.e. protein phosphatase 2A, beta-tubulin, GH720838, actin and GH720808). To validate the determined measure of gene-stability, the gene-specific variation was calculated using different normalization factors. The most non-specific variation was removed when the most stable genes were used, highlighting the importance of the adequate choice of internal controls in gene expression experiments. The set of reference genes presented here will provide useful guidelines as starting point for reference gene selection in pea studies under conditions other than those tested here.
Photosynthetic eukaryotes strongly depend on chloroplast metabolic pathways. Most if not all involve nuclear encoded proteins. These are synthesized as cytosolic preproteins with N-terminal, cleavable targeting sequences (transit peptide). Preproteins are imported by a major pathway composed of two proteins complexes: TOC and TIC (Translocon of the Outer and Inner membranes of the Chloroplasts, respectively). These selectively recognize the preproteins and facilitate their transport across the chloroplast envelope. The TOC core complex consists of three types of components, each belonging to a small family: Toc34, Toc75 and Toc159. Toc34 and Toc159 isoforms represent a subfamily of the GTPase superfamily. The members of the Toc34 and Toc159 subfamily act as GTP-dependent receptors at the chloroplast surface and distinct members of each occur in defined, substrate-specific TOC complexes. Toc75, a member of the Omp85 family, is conserved from prokaryotes and functions as the unique protein-conducting channel at the outer membrane. In this review we will describe the current state of knowledge regarding the composition and function of the TOC complex.
Controversial data on the lipid-lowering effect of dietary pea proteins have been provided and the mechanisms behind this effect are not completely understood. The aim of the study was to evaluate a possible hypolipidemic activity of a pea protein isolate and to determine whether pea proteins could affect the hepatic lipid metabolism through regulation of genes involved in cholesterol and fatty acid homeostasis. Rats were fed Nath's hypercholesterolemic diets for 28 days, the protein sources being casein or a pea protein isolate from Pisum sativum. After 14 and 28 days of dietary treatment, rats fed pea proteins had markedly lower plasma cholesterol and triglyceride levels than rats fed casein (p<0.05). Pea protein-fed rats displayed higher hepatic mRNA levels of LDL receptor versus those fed casein (p<0.05). Hepatic mRNA concentration of genes involved in fatty acids synthesis, such as fatty acid synthase and stearoyl-CoA desaturase, was lower in pea protein-fed rats than in rats fed casein (p<0.05). In conclusion, the present study demonstrates a marked cholesterol and triglyceride-lowering activity of pea proteins in rats. Moreover, pea proteins appear to affect cellular lipid homeostasis by upregulating genes involved in hepatic cholesterol uptake and by downregulating fatty acid synthesis genes.
Light regulation of gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis occurs in several species, but the signaling pathway through which this occurs has not been clearly established. We have isolated a new pea (Pisum sativum) mutant, long1, with a light-dependent elongated phenotype that is particularly pronounced in the epicotyl and first internode. The long1 mutation impairs signaling from phytochrome and cryptochrome photoreceptors and interacts genetically with a mutation in LIP1, the pea ortholog of Arabidopsis thaliana COP1. Mutant long1 seedlings show a dramatic impairment in the light regulation of active GA levels and the expression of several GA biosynthetic genes, most notably the GA catabolism gene GA2ox2. The long1 mutant carries a nonsense mutation in a gene orthologous to the ASTRAY gene from Lotus japonicus, a divergent ortholog of the Arabidopsis bZIP transcription factor gene HY5. Our results show that LONG1 has a central role in mediating the effects of light on GA biosynthesis in pea and demonstrate the importance of this regulation for appropriate photomorphogenic development. By contrast, LONG1 has no effect on GA responsiveness, implying that interactions between LONG1 and GA signaling are not a significant component of the molecular framework for light-GA interactions in pea.
A suppression subtraction hybridization (SSH) cDNA library had been constructed to identify differentially expressed genes. Based on the sequence of an expressed sequence tag (EST) homologous to Pisum sativum zinc finger protein mRNA (Accession number: AF160911), the full-length cDNA of 1,676 nucleotides was cloned from alfalfa by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). It was designated as MsZFN, encoding a protein of 418 amino acids. The amino acid sequence compared by blast revealed high homology with zinc finger protein of other plants. Sequence comparison showed that there were five conserved typical zinc finger motifs, and one sugar transfer protein signature. The calculated molecular weight of the MsZFN protein was 45.8 k Da, and theoretical isoelectric point was 8.13. The MsZFN localized in nucleus. Under normal growth conditions, differential expression of MsZFN exhibited that the expression was the highest in leaf and the lowest in root. MsZFN was quickly and transiently induced by NaCl treatment and reached its maximum at 30 min.
Diversity in leaf shape is produced by alterations of the margin: for example, deep dissection leads to leaflet formation and less-pronounced incision results in serrations or lobes. By combining gene silencing and mutant analyses in four distantly related eudicot species, we show that reducing the function of NAM/CUC boundary genes (NO APICAL MERISTEM and CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON) leads to a suppression of all marginal outgrowths and to fewer and fused leaflets. We propose that NAM/CUC genes promote formation of a boundary domain that delimits leaflets. This domain has a dual role promoting leaflet separation locally and leaflet formation at distance. In this manner, boundaries of compound leaves resemble boundaries functioning during animal development.
It has been shown that some dietary plant proteins beneficially influence lipid metabolism in animals. The effect of pea protein in this respect however has not yet been investigated. Therefore, we studied the effect of purified pea protein on the lipid metabolism in rats. Twenty-four rats received diets with either 200 g/kg of casein or purified pea protein for 16 days. Concentrations of triacylglycerols in liver, plasma and lipoproteins did not differ between both groups of rats. However, rats fed the pea protein diet had a lower concentration of total cholesterol in the liver and the very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) fraction than rats fed the casein diet (p < 0.05); cholesterol concentration in plasma, low density lipoproteins (LDL) and high density lipoproteins (HDL) did not differ between both groups. Rats fed pea protein moreover had an increased mRNA concentration of cholesterol-7alpha-hydroxylase in the liver and an increased amount of bile acids excreted via faeces compared with rats fed casein (p < 0.05). Concomitantly, mRNA concentrations of sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-2 and its target genes 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase and LDL receptor in the liver were increased in rats fed pea protein (p < 0.05). The data of this study suggests that pea protein stimulates formation and excretion of bile acids, which leads to a reduced hepatic cholesterol concentration and a reduced secretion of cholesterol via VLDL. An increased gene expression of SREBP-2 and its target genes HMG-CoA reductase and LDL receptor may be a means to compensate for the increased loss of cholesterol for bile acid synthesis.
Pathogenesis-related proteins belonging to group 10 (PR10) are elevated in response to biotic and abiotic stresses in plants. Previously, we have shown a drastic salinity-induced increase in the levels of ABR17, a member of the PR10 family, in pea. Furthermore, we have also demonstrated that the constitutive expression of pea ABR17 cDNA in Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica napus enhances their germination and early seedling growth under stress. Although it has been reported that several members of the PR10 family including ABR17 possess RNase activity, the exact mechanism by which the aforementioned characteristics are conferred by ABR17 is unknown at this time. We hypothesized that a study of differences in transcriptome between wild type (WT) and ABR17 transgenic A. thaliana may shed light on this process. The molecular changes brought about by the expression of pea ABR17 cDNA in A. thaliana in the presence or absence of salt stress were investigated using microarrays consisting of 70-mer oligonucleotide probes representing 23,686 Arabidopsis genes. Statistical analysis identified number of genes which were over represented among up- or down-regulated transcripts in the transgenic line. Our results highlight the important roles of many abscisic acid (ABA) and cytokinin (CK) responsive genes in ABR17 transgenic lines. Although the transcriptional changes followed a general salt response theme in both WT and transgenic seedlings under salt stress, many genes exhibited differential expression patterns when the transgenic and WT lines were compared. These genes include plant defensins, heat shock proteins, other defense related genes, and several transcriptional factors. Our microarray results for selected genes were validated using quantitative real-time PCR. Transcriptional analysis in ABR17 transgenic Arabidopsis plants, both under normal and saline conditions, revealed significant changes in abundance of transcripts for many stress responsive genes, as well as those related to plant growth and development. Our results also suggest that ABR17 may mediate stress tolerance through the modulation of many ABA- and CK-responsive genes and may further our understanding of the role of ABR17 in mediating plant stress responses.
Floral zygomorphy (flowers with bilateral symmetry) has multiple origins and typically manifests two kinds of asymmetries, dorsoventral (DV) and organ internal (IN) asymmetries in floral and organ planes, respectively, revealing the underlying key regulators in plant genomes that generate and superimpose various mechanisms to build up complexity and different floral forms during plant development. In this study, we investigate the loci affecting these asymmetries during the development of floral zygomorphy in pea (Pisum sativum L.). Two genes, LOBED STANDARD 1 (LST1) and KEELED WINGS (K), were cloned that encode TCP transcription factors and have divergent functions to constitute the DV asymmetry. A previously undescribed regulator, SYMMETRIC PETALS 1 (SYP1), has been isolated as controlling IN asymmetry. Genetic analysis demonstrates that DV and IN asymmetries could be controlled independently by the two kinds of regulators in pea, and their interactions help to specify the type of zygomorphy. Based on the genetic analysis in pea, we suggest that variation in both the functions and interactions of these regulators could give rise to the wide spectrum of floral symmetries among legume species and other flowering plants.
The application of nitrogen to legumes regulates seed metabolism and composition. We recently showed that the seed-specific overexpression of amino acid permease VfAAP1 increases amino acid supply, and the levels of N and protein in the seeds. Two consecutive field trials using Pisum sativum AAP1 lines confirmed increases in the levels of N and globulin in seed; however, compensatory changes of sucrose/starch and individual seed weight were also observed. We present a comprehensive analysis of AAP1 seeds using combinatorial transcript and metabolite profiling to monitor the effects of nitrogen supply on seed metabolism. AAP1 seeds have increased amino acids and stimulated gene expression associated with storage protein synthesis, maturation, deposition and vesicle trafficking. Transcript/metabolite changes reveal the channelling of surplus N into the transient storage pools asparagine and arginine, indicating that asparagine synthase is transcriptionally activated by high N levels and/or C limitation. Increased C-acceptor demand for amino acid synthesis, resulting from elevated levels of N in seeds, initiates sucrose mobilization and sucrose-dependent pathways via sucrose synthase, glycolysis and the TCA cycle. The AAP1 seeds display a limitation in C, which leads to the catabolism of arginine, glutamic acid and methionine to putrescine, beta-alanine and succinate. Mitochondria are involved in the coordination of C/N metabolism, with branched-chain amino acid catabolism and a gamma-amino-butyric acid shunt. AAP1 seeds contain higher levels of ABA, which is possibly involved in storage-associated gene expression and the N-dependent stimulation of sucrose mobilization, indicating that a signalling network of C, N and ABA is operating during seed maturation. These results demonstrate that legume seeds have a high capacity to regulate N:C ratios, and highlight the importance of mitochondria in the control of N-C balance and amino acid homeostasis.
Ran/TC4 is the only known member of the family of small GTP-binding proteins primarily localized inside the nucleus. We cloned a pea Ran gene (PsRan1) and characterized its expression in tissues, and under different light sources. PsRan1 is a member of a highly homologous multigene family, and it encodes a protein containing plant-specific amino acids in its sequence. It is ubiquitously expressed in pea tissues with high expression in radicles. The amount of total mRNA transcripts representing multiple Ran family members increased in response to very low-fluence R, while the amount of mRNA transcript encoding PsRan1 specifically was not affected by various light treatments. In addition, Ran genes in Arabidopsis were also differentially expressed in various mutants defective in phytochromes or the light-responding HY5 protein, such as phyA, phyB, and hy5. AtRan1 and AtRan3 gene expression was significantly reduced in the phyA mutant background compared to that in Ler-0 wild type plants. AtRan1 expression was also decreased in the phyB background. In contrast, the expression of AtRan2 did not vary in the hy5 and phytochrome mutant backgrounds examined. Interestingly, expression of AtRan1 was significantly reduced in hy5 plants, while AtRan3 expression was increased in the same plants. From these results, we conclude that Ran gene expression is differentially regulated by various light sources and phytochrome-mediated signaling pathways.
Studies of apical dominance have benefited greatly from two-branch assays in pea and bean, in which the shoot system is trimmed back to leave only two active cotyledonary axillary branches. In these two-branch shoots, a large body of evidence shows that one actively growing branch is able to inhibit the growth of the other, prompting studies on the nature of the inhibitory signals, which are still poorly understood. Here, we describe the establishment of two-branch assays in Arabidopsis, using consecutive branches on the bolting stem. As with the classical studies in pea and bean, these consecutive branches are able to inhibit one another's growth. Not only can the upper branch inhibit the lower branch, but also the lower branch can inhibit the upper branch, illustrating the bi-directional action of the inhibitory signals. Using mutants, we show that the inhibition is partially dependent on the MAX pathway and that while the inhibition is clearly transmitted across the stem from the active to the inhibited branch, the vascular connectivity of the two branches is weak, and the MAX pathway is capable of acting unilaterally in the stem.
Bicarbonate is considered one of the most important factors causing Fe chlorosis in Strategy I plants, mainly on calcareous soils. Most of its negative effects have been attributed to its capacity to buffer a high pH in soils, which can diminish both Fe solubility and root ferric reductase activity. Besides its pH-mediated effects, previous work has shown that bicarbonate can inhibit the induction of enhanced ferric reductase activity in Fe-deficient Strategy I plants. However, to date it is not known whether bicarbonate affects the upregulation of the ferric reductase gene and other genes involved in Fe acquisition. The objective of this work has been to study the effect of bicarbonate on the expression of several Fe acquisition genes in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana L.), pea (Pisum sativum L.), tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) and cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) plants. Genes for ferric reductases AtFRO2, PsFRO1, LeFRO1 and CsFRO1; iron transporters AtITR1, PsRIT1, LeIRT1 and CsIRT1; H
Genes controlling the transition to flowering have been studied in several species, including Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa), but have not yet received much attention in legumes. Here, we describe a new allelic series of late-flowering, photoperiod-insensitive mutants in the pea (Pisum sativum) LATE BLOOMER1 (LATE1) gene and show that LATE1 is an ortholog of Arabidopsis GIGANTEA. Mutants display defects in phytochrome B-dependent deetiolation under red light and in the diurnal regulation of pea homologs of several Arabidopsis circadian clock genes, including TIMING OF CAB1, EARLY FLOWERING4, and CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED1/LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL. LATE1 itself shows strongly rhythmic expression with a small but distinct acute peak following dark-to-light transfer. Mutations in LATE1 prevent the induction of a FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) homolog FTL in long days but cause only minor alteration to the rhythmic expression pattern of the only known group Ia CONSTANS homolog COLa. The late-flowering phenotype of late1 mutants can be completely rescued by grafting to the wild type, but this rescue is not associated with a significant increase in FTL transcript level in shoot apices. Genetic interactions of late1 with the photoperiod-insensitive, early-flowering sterile nodes (sn) mutant and impairment of the LATE1 diurnal expression rhythm in sn plants suggest that SN may also affect the circadian clock. These results show that several functions of Arabidopsis GIGANTEA are conserved in its pea ortholog and demonstrate that genetic pathways for photoperiodic flowering are likely to be conserved between these two species. They also suggest that in addition to its role in the floral transition, LATE1 also acts throughout reproductive development.
Mung bean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV) is a member of genus begomoviridae and its genome comprises of bipartite (two components, namely DNA-A and DNA-B), single-stranded, circular DNA of about 2.7 kb. During rolling circle replication (RCR) of the DNA, the stability of the genome and maintenance of the stem-loop structure of the replication origin is crucial. Hence the role of host single-stranded DNA-binding protein, Replication protein A (RPA), in the RCR of MYMIV was examined. Two RPA subunits, namely the RPA70 kDa and RPA32 kDa, were isolated from pea and their roles were validated in a yeast system in which MYMIV DNA replication has been modelled. Here, we present evidences that only the RPA32 kDa subunit directly interacted with the carboxy terminus of MYMIV-Rep both in vitro as well as in yeast two-hybrid system. RPA32 modulated the functions of Rep by enhancing its ATPase and down regulating its nicking and closing activities. The possible role of these modulations in the context of viral DNA replication has been discussed. Finally, we showed the positive involvement of RPA32 in transient replication of the plasmid DNA bearing MYMIV replication origin using an in planta based assay.
Chaltone synthase (CHS) is a key speed-limiting enzyme in the phenylpropanoid pathway which plays an important role in plant defense response against pathogens. In the PsCHS1 promoter, there is an AT-rich element (ATRE) which is required for the maximal elicitor-mediated activation. However, the transcription activator of the ATRE and its regulation mechanism in pea keep unclear. In this paper, a new ATRE-binding factor was isolated from an elicitor-induced pea cDNA expression library and was designated as PsATF1. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) indicated the ATRE-specific binding activity of PsATF1. Beta-galactosidase assays in yeast cells suggested that PsATF1 possessed transcription-activating activity because PsATF1 activated the expression of the reporter gene even without the GAL4 activation domain (AD). The current study also examined the co-activation effects of PsATF1 with another transcription factor PsGBF on ATRE or PsCHS1 promoter through a transient expression system. The present work reports that PsATF1 acts as a complete transcription activator and first indicates that there are combined effects of PsATF1 with PsGBF on the activation of PsCHS1 promoter. These results provide theoretical basis to the plant defense gene expression mechanism regulated by multiple activators.
Comparative studies help shed light on how the huge diversity in plant forms found in nature has been produced. We use legume species to study developmental differences in inflorescence architecture and flower ontogeny with classical models such as Arabidopsis thaliana or Antirrhinum majus. Whereas genetic control of these processes has been analyzed mostly in pea (Pisum sativum), Medicago truncatula is emerging as a promising alternative system for these studies due to the availability of a range of genetic tools. To assess the use of the retrotransposon Tnt1 for reverse genetics in M. truncatula, we screened a small Tnt1-mutagenized population using degenerate primers for MADS-box genes, known controllers of plant development. We describe here the characterization of mtpim, a new mutant caused by the insertion of Tnt1 in a homolog to the PROLIFERATING INFLORESCENCE MERISTEM (PIM)/APETALA1 (AP1)/SQUAMOSA genes. mtpim shows flower-to-inflorescence conversion and altered flowers with sepals transformed into leaves, indicating that MtPIM controls floral meristem identity and flower development. Although more extreme, this phenotype resembles the pea pim mutants, supporting the idea that M. truncatula could be used to complement analysis of reproductive development already initiated in pea. In fact, our study reveals aspects not shown by analysis of pea mutants: that the mutation in the AP1 homolog interferes with the specification of floral organs from common primordia and causes conversion of sepals into leaves, in addition to true conversion of flowers into inflorescences. The isolation of mtpim represents a proof of concept demonstrating that Tnt1 populations can be efficiently used in reverse genetics screenings in M. truncatula.
With the use of in vivo recombination theory, the screening time of yeast one-hybrid system was decreased in the present study. A basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) protein PsGBF was successfully obtained from a glutathione (GSH)-induced pea cDNA library using the G-box cis-element of the PsCHS1 promoter as a bait. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) and beta-galactosidase assay results suggested that PsGBF possesses both G-box-specific binding and transcription-activating activities. The specific interaction of PsGBF with G-box was further confirmed by in vivo transient expression assays in tobacco. The current study examined the combination effect of G-box with Box I elements in the interaction with PsGBF or OsMYC. The results indicated that PsGBF bound with the G-box, but not the Box I element. Moreover, this combination effect of G-box and Box I only associated with PsGBF but not with other bHLH-type proteins such as OsMYC.
The Unifoliata (Uni) gene plays a major role in development of the compound leaf in pea, but its regulation is unknown. In this study, we examined the effects of plant hormones on the expression of Uni, PsPK2 (the gene for a pea homolog of Arabidopsis PID, a regulator of PIN1 targeting), PsPIN1 (the major gene for a putative auxin efflux carrier) and LE (a gibberellin biosynthesis gene, GA3ox), and also examined mutual hormonal regulation of these genes, in pea shoot tips, including a number of mutants. The Uni promoter possessed putative auxin and gibberellin response elements. The PsPIN1 mRNA levels were increased in afila, which replaces leaflets with branched tendrils; and reduced in tendrilless, which replaces tendrils with leaflets, compared with the wild type (WT). In contrast, mRNA levels of LE were increased in uni and tendrilless and decreased in afila compared with the WT. Uni, PsPK2 and PsPIN1 are positively regulated by gibberellin and auxin, and were induced to higher levels by simultaneous application of auxin and gibberellin. Auxin induction of Uni, PsPK2 and PsPIN1 did not require de novo protein synthesis. LE was positively regulated by auxin and cytokinin. In conclusion, these results support the hypothesis that auxin and gibberellin positively regulate Uni, which controls pea compound leaf development. Also, Uni, PsPIN1, PsPK2 and LE are expressed differentially in the leaf mutants, suggesting that mutual regulation by auxin and gibberellin promotes compound leaf development.
OEP16, a channel protein of the outer membrane of chloroplasts, has been implicated in amino acid transport and in the substrate-dependent import of protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase A. Two major clades of OEP16-related sequences were identified in land plants (OEP16-L and OEP16-S), which arose by a gene duplication event predating the divergence of seed plants and bryophytes. Remarkably, in angiosperms, OEP16-S genes evolved by gaining an additional exon that extends an interhelical loop domain in the pore-forming region of the protein. We analysed the sequence, structure and expression of the corresponding Arabidopsis genes (atOEP16-S and atOEP16-L) and demonstrated that following duplication, both genes diverged in terms of expression patterns and coding sequence. AtOEP16-S, which contains multiple G-box ABA-responsive elements (ABREs) in the promoter region, is regulated by ABI3 and ABI5 and is strongly expressed during the maturation phase in seeds and pollen grains, both desiccation-tolerant tissues. In contrast, atOEP-L, which lacks promoter ABREs, is expressed predominantly in leaves, is induced strongly by low-temperature stress and shows weak induction in response to osmotic stress, salicylic acid and exogenous ABA. Our results indicate that gene duplication, exon gain and regulatory sequence evolution each played a role in the divergence of OEP16 homologues in plants.
In the thylakoid membrane of chloroplasts as well as in the cytoplasmic membrane of bacteria, the DeltapH/Tat-dependent protein transport pathway is responsible for the translocation of folded proteins. Using the chimeric 16/23 protein as model substrate in thylakoid transport experiments, we dissected the transport process into several distinct steps that are characterized by specific integral translocation intermediates. Formation of the early translocation intermediate Ti-1, which still exposes the N and the C terminus to the stroma, is observed with thylakoids pretreated with (i) solutions of chaotropic salts or alkaline pH, (ii) protease, or (iii) antibodies raised against TatA, TatB, or TatC. Membrane insertion takes place even into liposomes, demonstrating that proteinaceous components are not required. This suggests that Tat-dependent transport may be initiated by the unassisted insertion of the substrate into the lipid bilayer, and that interaction with the Tat translocase takes place only in later stages of the process.
The cryptochromes are a family of blue light photoreceptors that play important roles in the control of plant development. We have characterised the cryptochrome gene family in the model legume garden pea (Pisum sativum L.). Pea contains three expressed cryptochrome genes; a single CRY1 orthologue, and two distinct CRY2 genes that we have termed CRY2a and CRY2b. Genomic southern blots indicate that there are unlikely to be more CRY genes in pea. Each of the three genes encodes a full-length CRY protein that contains all the major domains characteristic of other higher plant cryptochromes. Database searches have identified Medicago truncatula expressed sequence tags (ESTs) corresponding to all three genes, whereas only a single CRY2 is represented in EST collections from the more distantly related legumes soybean and Lotus japonicus. The proteins encoded by the pea and Medicago CRY2b genes are distinguished from other CRY2 proteins by their shorter C-terminus. Expression analyses have identified marked differences in the regulation of the three genes, with CRY2b expression in particular distinguished by high-amplitude diurnal cycling and rapid repression in seedlings transferred from darkness to blue light.
Brassica napus complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) clones encoding a DNA-binding protein, BnPEND, were isolated by Southwestern screening. A distinctive feature of the protein was a bZIP-like sequence in the amino-terminal portion, which, after expression in Escherichia coli, bound DNA. BnPEND transcripts were present in B. napus roots and flower buds, and to a lesser extent in stems, flowers and young leaves. Treatment in the dark for 72 h markedly increased the amount of BnPEND transcript in leaves of all ages. Sequence comparison showed that BnPEND was similar to a presumed transcription factor from B. napus, GSBF1, a protein deduced from an Arabidopsis thaliana cDNA (BX825084) and the PEND protein from Pisum sativum, believed to anchor the plastid DNA to the envelope early during plastid development. Homology to expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences from additional species suggested that BnPEND homologues are widespread among the angiosperms. Transient expression of BnPEND fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) in Nicotiana benthamiana epidermal cells showed that BnPEND is a plastid protein, and that the 15 amino acids at the amino-terminal contain information about plastid targeting. Expression of BnPEND in Nicotiana tabacum from the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus 35S promoter gave stable transformants with different extents of white to light-green areas in the leaves, and even albino plants. In the white areas, but not in adjacent green tissue, the development of palisade cells and chloroplasts was disrupted. Our data demonstrate that the BnPEND protein, when over-expressed at an inappropriate stage, functionally blocks the development of plastids and leads to altered leaf anatomy, possibly by preventing the release of plastid DNA from the envelope.
Current understanding of floral development is mainly based on what we know from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and Antirrhinum majus. However, we can learn more by comparing developmental mechanisms that may explain morphological differences between species. A good example comes from the analysis of genes controlling flower development in pea (Pisum sativum), a plant with more complex leaves and inflorescences than Arabidopsis and Antirrhinum, and a different floral ontogeny. The analysis of UNIFOLIATA (UNI) and STAMINA PISTILLOIDA (STP), the pea orthologs of LEAFY and UNUSUAL FLORAL ORGANS, has revealed a common link in the regulation of flower and leaf development not apparent in Arabidopsis. While the Arabidopsis genes mainly behave as key regulators of flower development, where they control the expression of B-function genes, UNI and STP also contribute to the development of the pea compound leaf. Here, we describe the characterization of P. sativum PISTILLATA (PsPI), a pea MADS-box gene homologous to B-function genes like PI and GLOBOSA (GLO), from Arabidopsis and Antirrhinum, respectively. PsPI encodes for an atypical PI-type polypeptide that lacks the highly conserved C-terminal PI motif. Nevertheless, constitutive expression of PsPI in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and Arabidopsis shows that it can specifically replace the function of PI, being able to complement the strong pi-1 mutant. Accordingly, PsPI expression in pea flowers, which is dependent on STP, is identical to PI and GLO. Interestingly, PsPI is also transiently expressed in young leaves, suggesting a role of PsPI in pea leaf development, a possibility that fits with the established role of UNI and STP in the control of this process.
Rhizobial bacteria enter a symbiotic interaction with legumes, activating diverse responses in roots through the lipochito oligosaccharide signaling molecule Nod factor. Here, we show that NSP2 from Medicago truncatula encodes a GRAS protein essential for Nod-factor signaling. NSP2 functions downstream of Nod-factor-induced calcium spiking and a calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase. We show that NSP2-GFP expressed from a constitutive promoter is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum/nuclear envelope and relocalizes to the nucleus after Nod-factor elicitation. This work provides evidence that a GRAS protein transduces calcium signals in plants and provides a possible regulator of Nod-factor-inducible gene expression.
Plastid DNA is a circular molecule of 120-150 kbp, which is organized into a protein-DNA complex called a nucleoid. Although various plastids other than chloroplasts exist, such as etioplasts, amyloplasts and chromoplasts, it is not easy to observe plastid nucleoids within the cells of many non-green tissues. The PEND (plastid envelope DNA-binding) protein is a DNA-binding protein in the inner envelope membrane of developing chloroplasts, and a DNA-binding domain called cbZIP is present at its N-terminus. We made various PEND-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins using the cbZIP domains from various plants, and found that they were localized in the chloroplast nucleoids in transient expression in leaf protoplasts. In stable transformants of Arabidopsis thaliana, PEND-GFP fusion proteins were also localized in the nucleoids of various plastids. We have succeeded in visualizing plastid nucleoids in various intact tissues using this stable transformant. This technique is useful in root, flower and pollen, in which it had been difficult to observe plastid nucleoids. The relative arrangement of nucleoids within a chloroplast was kept unchanged when the chloroplast moved within a cell. During the division of plastid, nucleoids formed a network structure, which made possible equal partition of nucleoids.
Lhcb1-2 from pea was constitutively expressed in transgenic tobacco plants and assessed for functional impact. The successful assembly of the encoded proteins into LHCII trimers was confirmed by electrospray tandem mass spectrometry. Constitutive production of LHCb1-2 led to increased number of thylakoid membranes per chloroplast, increased grana stacking, higher chloroplast numbers per palisade cell and increased photosynthetic capacity at low irradiance, both on a chlorophyll and leaf area basis. The transgenic plants also displayed increased cell volume, larger leaves, higher leaf number per plant at flowering, increased biomass and increased seed weight, when grown under low irradiance levels. Under high irradiance, both transgenic and wild type plants displayed similar photosynthetic rates when tested at 25 degrees C; however, the non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) and qE values increased in the transgenic plants. The exposure of transgenic plants to a photoinhibitory treatment (4 degrees C for 4 h, under continuous illumination) resulted in more detrimental impairment of photosynthesis, since recovery was slower than the non-transgenic plants. These data indicate that constitutive expression of additional Lhcb1-2 transgenes led to a series of changes at all levels of the plant (cellular, leaf and whole organism), and a delay in flowering and senescence. The additional production of the pea protein appears to be accommodated by increasing cellular structures such as the number of thylakoids per chloroplast, organelle volume, organelles per cell, and leaf expansion. The presence of the trimeric pea protein in the tobacco LHCII, however, caused a possible change in the organization of the associated super-complex, that in turn limited photosynthesis at low temperature.
Translocation of proteins across membranes is essential for the biogenesis of each cell and is achieved by proteinaceous complexes. We analyzed the translocation complex of the intermembrane space from chloroplasts and identified a 12-kDa protein associated with the Toc machinery. Toc12 is an outer envelope protein exposing a soluble domain into the intermembrane space. Toc12 contains a J-domain and stimulates the ATPase activity of DnaK. The conformational stability and the ability to stimulate Hsp70 are dependent on a disulfide bridge within the loop region of the J-domain, suggesting a redox-regulated activation of the chaperone. Toc12 is associated with Toc64 and Tic22. Its J-domain recruits the Hsp70 of outer envelope membrane to the intermembrane space translocon and facilitates its interaction to the preprotein.
Seedling apical hook development involves a complex interplay of hormones and light in the regulation of differential cell growth. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms that integrate these diverse signals to control bending of the embryonic stem are poorly understood. The Arabidopsis ethylene-regulated HOOKLESS1 (HLS1) gene is essential for apical hook formation. Herein, we identify two auxin response regulators that act downstream of HLS1 to control cell elongation in the hypocotyl. Extragenic suppressors of hls1 were identified as mutations in AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR 2 (ARF2). The level of ARF2 protein was decreased by ethylene, and this response required HLS1. Exposure to light decreased HLS1 protein levels and evoked a concomitant increase in ARF2 accumulation. These studies demonstrate that both ethylene and light signals affect differential cell growth by acting through HLS1 to modulate the auxin response factors, pinpointing HLS1 as a key integrator of the signaling pathways that control hypocotyl bending.
Type 1 phototropin, one of the blue light receptors responsible for phototropism, is encoded in peas by at least two genes, PsPHOT1A and PsPHOT1B (formerly PsPK4 and PsPK5), both of which are more similar to Arabidopsis PHOT1 than to Arabidopsis PHOT2. We show here that PsPHOT1B encodes a full-length phototropin, whose expression pattern suggests that Psphot1b is the predominant phot1-type phototropin in etiolated seedlings. The gene encoding the other type 1 phototropin, PsPHOT1A, is expressed at low levels, with its highest levels in the leaves and stems of more mature, light-grown plants. Studies with phyA, phyB and the phyAphyB double mutants show that phyA and phyB have partially redundant roles in the reduction of PsPHOT1B expression under red light.
Retrotransposons are major, dispersed components of most eukaryotic genomes. They replicate by a cycle of transcription, reverse transcription, and integration of new copies, without excising from the genome in the process. Because they represent a major share of the genome, cause easily detectable genetic changes having known ancestral and derived states, and contain conserved regions for which polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers may be designed, retrotransposon insertions can be exploited as powerful molecular marker systems. Here, we describe the background and strategies, as well as give detailed laboratory protocols, for four key retrotransposon-based methods: SSAP, IRAP, REMAP, and RBIP. The SSAP, IRAP, and REMAP methods are multiplex and generate anonymous marker bands; RBIP scores individual loci, much as microsatellite-based marker systems do. The methods are variously suited to marker detection on agarose and polyacrylamide slab gels, slab and capillary sequencing devices, and arrays on solid supports. The different strengths and weaknesses of these approaches and their performance relative to conventional marker methods are discussed, together with their applicability to marker-assisted breeding, phylogenetic analyses, biodiversity determinations, and evolutionary studies.
Ectopic expression in Arabidopsis of a pea (Pisum sativum) cDNA (2ox2) encoding a gibberellin (GA) 2-oxidase (PsGA2ox2), involved in the deactivation of biologically active GAs, has been used to establish a role for GAs in promoting pollen tube growth. One line, 35S:2ox2/28c, when homozygous for the transgene, exhibits a novel small fruit phenotype. The 28c transgene reduces pollen tube growth, and this results in a reduced number of fertilized seeds that are only present at the end of the silique nearest the stigma. To confirm that the 28c pollen tube phenotype is due to sense expression of the 2ox2 mRNA, a "hairpin" RNA interface silencing construct, designed to silence 2ox2 expression, has been used to restore pollen tube growth and fruit development. The interaction between 28c and other mutants with increased GA response has also been examined to provide further evidence that GAs play an important role in pollen tube growth. Based on the ability of mutant alleles to suppress the 35S:2ox2/28c phenotype, we define new roles for the gar2-1 and rga alleles in GA signaling during pollen tube elongation in addition to their previously established roles in vegetative tissues. In contrast to the constitutive GA response observed in internodes and leaves lacking RGA and GAI, the rga-2 gai-d5 mutant combination is only a partial suppressor of the 28c phenotype. Because the dominant dwarfing gai-1 allele reduces GA response in vegetative tissues, its effect on plant fertility has been examined. Although gai-1 reduces seed set, this appears to reflect defects in reproductive development other than pollen tube function. Finally, we show that the genetic background (Landsberg erecta or Columbia) modifies the 28c phenotype and that this effect is not due to the ER/er difference between these two ecotypes.
The genetic structure and evolutionary history of the genus Pisum were studied exploiting our germplasm collection to compare the contribution of different mechanisms to the generation of diversity. We used sequence-specific amplification polymorphism (SSAP) markers to assess insertion site polymorphism generated by a representative of each of the two major groups of LTR-containing retrotransposons, PDR1 (Ty1/copia-like) and Cyclops (Ty3/gypsy-like), together with Pis1, a member of the En/Spm transposon superfamily. The analysis of extended sets of the four main Pisum species, P. fulvum, P. elatius, P. abyssinicum, and P. sativum, together with the reference set, revealed a distinct pattern of the NJ (Neighbor-Joining) tree for each basic lineage, which reflects the different evolutionary history of each species. The SSAP markers showed that Pisum is exceptionally polymorphic for an inbreeding species. The patterns of phylogenetic relationships deduced from different transposable elements were in general agreement. The retrotransposon-derived markers gave a clearer separation of the main lineages than the Pis1 markers and were able to distinguish the truly wild form of P. elatius from the antecedents of P. sativum. There were more species-specific and unique PDR1 markers than Pis1 markers in P. fulvum and P. elatius, pointing to PDR1 activity during speciation and diversification, but the proportion of these markers is low. The overall genetic diversity of Pisum and the extreme polymorphism in all species, except P. abyssinicum, indicate a high contribution of recombination between multiple ancestral lineages compared to transposition within lineages. The two independently domesticated pea species, P. abyssinicum and P. sativum, arose in contrasting ways from the common processes of hybridization, introgression, and selection without associated transpositional activity.
The PDA1 gene of the filamentous fungus Nectria haematococca MPVI (anamorph: Fusarium solani) encodes pisatin demethylase, a cytochrome P450. Pisatin is a fungistatic isoflavonoid produced by garden pea (Pisum sativum), a host for this fungus. Pisatin demethylase detoxifies pisatin and functions as a virulence factor for this fungus. Pisatin induces PDA1 expression both in cultured mycelia as well as during pathogenesis on pea. The regulatory element within PDA1 that provides pisatin-responsive expression was identified using a combination of in vivo functional analysis and in vitro binding analysis. The 40 bp pisatin-responsive element is located 635 bp upstream of the PDA1 transcription start site. This element was sufficient to provide strong pisatin-induced expression to a minimal promoter in vivo and was required for pisatin regulation of the PDA1 promoter. A gene encoding a DNA-binding protein specific to this 40 bp element was isolated from a N. haematococca cDNA library using the yeast one-hybrid screen. The cloned gene possesses sequence motifs found in the binuclear zinc (Cys 6-Zn 2) family of transcription factors unique to fungi. The results suggest that it is a regulator of this fungal cytochrome P450 gene and may provide pisatin-responsive regulation.
Rhizobium leguminosarum fur mutants were unaffected in Fe-dependent regulation of several operons that specify different Fe uptake systems, yet cloned R. leguminosarum fur partially corrected an Escherichia coli fur mutant and R. leguminosarum Fur protein bound to canonical fur boxes. The lack of a phenotype in fur mutants is not due to functional redundancy with Irr, another member of the Fur superfamily found in the rhizobia, since irr fur double mutants are also unaffected in Fe-responsive regulation of several operons involved in Fe uptake. Neither Irr nor Fur is needed for symbiotic N(2) fixation on peas. As in Bradyrhizobium japonicum, irr mutants accumulated protoporphyrin IX. R. leguminosarum irr is not regulated by Fur and its Irr protein lacks the motif needed for haem-dependent post-translational modification that occurs in B. japonicum Irr. The similarities and differences in the Fur superfamily in the rhizobia and other Gram-negative bacteria are discussed.
To study flower development in the model legume Lotus japonicus, a population of transgenic plants containing a maize transposable element (Ac) in their genome was screened for floral mutants. One mutation named proliferating floral organs (pfo) causes plants to produce a large number of sepal-like organs instead of normal flowers. It segregates as a single recessive Mendelian locus, and causes sterility. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that pfo affects the identity, number and arrangement of floral organs. Sepal-like organs form in the first whorl, and secondary floral meristems are produced in the next whorl. These in turn produce sepal-like organs in the first whorl and floral meristems in the second whorl, and the process is reiterated. Petals and stamens are absent while carpels are either absent or reduced. The pfo phenotype was correlated with the presence of an Ac insertion yielding a 1.6-kb HindIII restriction fragment on Southern blots. Both the mutant phenotype and this Ac element are unstable. Using the transposon as a tag, the Pfo gene was isolated. Conceptual translation of Pfo predicts a protein containing an F-box, with high overall similarity to the Antirrhinum FIMBRIATA, Arabidopsis UNUSUAL FLORAL ORGANS and Pisum sativum Stamina pistilloida proteins. This suggests that Pfo may regulate floral organ identity and meristem determinacy by targeting proteins for ubiquitination.
The expression of nuclear genes encoding photosynthesis-related proteins is regulated by signals from plastids. To investigate how the pea PetE gene encoding plastocyanin is regulated by plastid signals, the effects of norflurazon, lincomycin and 3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea (DCMU), specific inhibitors of plastid-located processes generating plastid signals, have been examined. RNA-gel blot analysis of 7-day-old pea and tobacco seedlings containing the pea PetE gene showed that treatment with norflurazon and lincomycin, but not DCMU, decreased the accumulation of transcripts of pea PetE and endogenous Lhcb1 genes. Analysis of chimeric PetE gene constructs in tobacco seedlings showed that an intact PetE mRNA 5' terminus and elements within the PetE coding region were required to confer sensitivity to norflurazon and lincomycin, suggesting post-transcriptional regulation. Analysis of 4-week-old tobacco plants containing chimeric PetE constructs showed that DCMU treatment decreased the accumulation of pea PetE and Lhcb1 transcripts, but had opposite effects on the transcription of the genes in nuclear run-on assays. DCMU upregulated transcription from the pea PetE promoter whereas transcription of tobacco Lhcb1 genes was decreased. These experiments provide evidence for multiple plastid signals operating at different developmental stages and affecting transcriptional and post-transcriptional processes regulating expression of the pea PetE gene.
Protein lysine methylation by SET domain enzymes regulates chromatin structure, gene silencing, transcriptional activation, plant metabolism, and other processes. The 2.6 A resolution structure of Rubisco large subunit methyltransferase in a pseudo-bisubstrate complex with S-adenosylhomocysteine and a HEPES ion reveals an all-beta architecture for the SET domain embedded within a larger alpha-helical enzyme fold. Conserved regions of the SET domain bind S-adenosylmethionine and substrate lysine at two sites connected by a pore. We propose that methyl transfer is catalyzed by a conserved Tyr at a narrow pore connecting the sites. The cofactor enters by a "back door" on the opposite side of the enzyme from substrate, promoting highly specific protein recognition and allowing addition of multiple methyl groups.
RNA editing in higher-plant chloroplasts involves C-to-U conversions at specific sites. Although in vivo analyses have been performed, little is known about the biochemical aspects of chloroplast editing reactions. Here we improved our original in vitro system and devised a procedure for preparing active chloroplast extracts not only from tobacco plants but also from pea plants. Using our tobacco in vitro system, cis-acting elements were defined for psbE and petB mRNAs. Distinct proteins were found to bind specifically to each cis-element, a 56-kDa protein to the psbE site and a 70-kDa species to the petB site. Pea chloroplasts lack the corresponding editing site in psbE since T is already present in the DNA. Parallel in vitro analyses with tobacco and pea extracts revealed that the pea plant has no editing activity for psbE mRNAs and lacks the 56-kDa protein, whereas petB mRNAs are edited and the 70-kDa protein is also present. Therefore, coevolution of an editing site and its cognate trans-factor was demonstrated biochemically in psbE mRNA editing between tobacco and pea plants.
SQUAMOSA and APETALA1 are floral meristem identity genes from snapdragon (Antirrhinum majus) and Arabidopsis, respectively. Here, we characterize the floral meristem identity mutation proliferating inflorescence meristem (pim) from pea (Pisum sativum) and show that it corresponds to a defect in the PEAM4 gene, a homolog of SQUAMOSA and APETALA1. The PEAM4 coding region was deleted in the pim-1 allele, and this deletion cosegregated with the pim-1 mutant phenotype. The pim-2 allele carried a nucleotide substitution at a predicted 5' splice site that resulted in mis-splicing of pim-2 mRNA. PCR products corresponding to unspliced and exon-skipped mRNA species were observed. The pim-1 and pim-2 mutations delayed floral meristem specification and altered floral morphology significantly but had no observable effect on vegetative development. These floral-specific mutant phenotypes and the restriction of PIM gene expression to flowers contrast with other known floral meristem genes in pea that additionally affect vegetative development. The identification of PIM provides an opportunity to compare pathways to flowering in species with different inflorescence architectures.
A common characteristic among fungal pathogens of plants is that each specializes on a narrow range of specific plants as hosts. One adaptation to a specific host plant is the recognition of the host's chemicals which can be used to trigger genes or developmental pathways needed for pathogenesis. The production of characteristic flavonoids by plants, particularly those exuded from roots by legumes, appear to be used as signals for various microbes, including symbionts as well as pathogens. Nectria haematococca MPVI (anamorph: Fusarium solani) is a soil-borne pathogen of garden pea (Pisum sativum) which serves as a useful model in studying host flavonoid recognition. This fungus displays flavonoid induction of specific pathogenicity genes as well as stimulation of development needed for pathogenesis. Here, we summarize the study of flavonoid-inducible signal pathways which regulate these trait, through identification of transcription factors and regulatory components which control these responses. The characterization of the components a pathogen uses to specifically recognize its host provides insights into the host adaptation process at the molecular level.
DNA fragments containing the 5' promoter regions of the Pisum sativum sadA and sadC genes were amplified from genomic DNA, cloned and sequenced. These sequences contain a number of conserved cis-acting elements, which are potentially involved in stress-induced transcription of the sad genes. To determine whether any of the identified elements are active in binding nuclear factors in vitro, 11 60-bp overlapping (by 30 bp) DNA probe fragments covering the proximal sadC promoter sequence (360 bp) were used in electrophoretic mobility shift assays with competition. Binding activities were compared in nuclear extracts from control, UV-B-stressed and wounded pea leaves. The pattern of DNA binding was almost identical with all three extracts, with one 30-bp region being the predominant site for factor binding. Using overlapping sub-fragments of this region, the majority of the specific binding could be attributed to the novel 11-bp GC-rich sequence GTGGCGCCCAC. An almost identical sequence is conserved in the sadA promoter. This motif has features in common with a number of recognised cis-elements, which suggests a possible binding site for factors which play a role in regulating sad gene transcription.
Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae UPM791 induces hydrogenase activity in pea (Pisum sativum L.) bacteroids but not in free-living cells. The symbiotic induction of hydrogenase structural genes (hupSL) is mediated by NifA, the general regulator of the nitrogen fixation process. So far, no culture conditions have been found to induce NifA-dependent promoters in vegetative cells of this bacterium. This hampers the study of the R. leguminosarum hydrogenase system. We have replaced the native NifA-dependent hupSL promoter with the FnrN-dependent fixN promoter, generating strain SPF25, which expresses the hup system in microaerobic free-living cells. SPF25 reaches levels of hydrogenase activity in microaerobiosis similar to those induced in UPM791 bacteroids. A sixfold increase in hydrogenase activity was detected in merodiploid strain SPF25(pALPF1). A time course induction of hydrogenase activity in microaerobic free-living cells of SPF25(pALPF1) shows that hydrogenase activity is detected after 3 h of microaerobic incubation. Maximal hydrogen uptake activity was observed after 10 h of microaerobiosis. Immunoblot analysis of microaerobically induced SPF25(pALPF1) cell fractions indicated that the HupL active form is located in the membrane, whereas the unprocessed protein remains in the soluble fraction. Symbiotic hydrogenase activity of strain SPF25 was not impaired by the promoter replacement. Moreover, bacteroids from pea plants grown in low-nickel concentrations induced higher levels of hydrogenase activity than the wild-type strain and were able to recycle all hydrogen evolved by nodules. This constitutes a new strategy to improve hydrogenase activity in symbiosis.
Gibberellin A(1) (GA(1)) levels drop significantly in wild-type pea (Pisum sativum) plants within 4 h of exposure to red, blue, or far-red light. This response is controlled by phytochrome A (phyA) (and not phyB) and a blue light receptor. GA(8) levels are increased in response to 4 h of red light, whereas the levels of GA(19), GA(20), and GA(29) do not vary substantially. Red light appears to control GA(1) levels by down-regulating the expression of Mendel's LE (PsGA3ox1) gene that controls the conversion of GA(20) to GA(1), and by up-regulating PsGA2ox2, which codes for a GA 2-oxidase that converts GA(1) to GA(8). This occurs within 0.5 to 1 h of exposure to red light. Similar responses occur in blue light. The major GA 20-oxidase gene expressed in shoots, PsGA20ox1, does not show substantial light regulation, but does show up-regulation after 4 h of red light, probably as a result of feedback regulation. Expression of PsGA3ox1 shows a similar feedback response, whereas PsGA2ox2 shows a feed-forward response. These results add to our understanding of how light reduces shoot elongation during de-etiolation.
Complementary DNA encoding a DNA-binding protein, designated PLATZ1 (plant AT-rich sequence- and zinc-binding protein 1), was isolated from peas. The amino acid sequence of the protein is similar to those of other uncharacterized proteins predicted from the genome sequences of higher plants. However, no paralogous sequences have been found outside the plant kingdom. Multiple alignments among these paralogous proteins show that several cysteine and histidine residues are invariant, suggesting that these proteins are a novel class of zinc-dependent DNA-binding proteins with two distantly located regions, C-x(2)-H-x(11)-C-x(2)-C-x((4-5))-C-x(2)-C-x((3-7))-H-x(2)-H and C-x(2)-C-x((10-11))-C-x(3)-C. In an electrophoretic mobility shift assay, the zinc chelator 1,10-o-phenanthroline inhibited DNA binding, and two distant zinc-binding regions were required for DNA binding. A protein blot with (65)ZnCl(2) showed that both regions are required for zinc-binding activity. The PLATZ1 protein non-specifically binds to A/T-rich sequences, including the upstream region of the pea GTPase pra2 and plastocyanin petE genes. Expression of the PLATZ1 repressed those of the reporter constructs containing the coding sequence of luciferase gene driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S90 promoter fused to the tandem repeat of the A/T-rich sequences. These results indicate that PLATZ1 is a novel class of plant-specific zinc-dependent DNA-binding protein responsible for A/T-rich sequence-mediated transcriptional repression.
The photosystem I subunit PsaK spans the thylakoid membrane twice, with the N and C termini both located in the lumen. The insertion mechanism of a thylakoid membrane protein adopting this type of topology has not been studied before, and we have used in vitro assays to determine the requirements for PsaK insertion into thylakoids. PsaK inserts with high efficiency and we show that one transmembrane span (the C-terminal region) can insert independently of the other, indicating that a "hairpin"-type mechanism is not essential. Insertion of PsaK does not require stromal extract, indicating that signal recognition particle (SRP) is not involved. Removal of nucleoside triphosphates inhibits insertion only slightly, both in the presence and absence of stroma, suggesting a mild stimulatory effect of a factor in the translation system and again ruling out an involvement of SRP or its partner protein, FtsY. We, furthermore, find no evidence for the involvement of known membrane-bound translocation apparatus; proteolysis of thylakoids destroys the Sec and Tat translocons but does not block PsaK insertion, and antibodies against the Oxa1/YidC homolog, Alb3, block the SRP-dependent insertion of Lhcb1 but again have no effect on PsaK insertion. Because YidC is required for the efficient insertion of every membrane protein tested in Escherichia coli (whether SRP-dependent or -independent), PsaK is the first protein identified as being independent of YidC/Alb3-type factors in either thylakoids or bacteria. The data raise the possibility of a wholly spontaneous insertion pathway.
The interactions of phytochrome A (phyA) and phytochrome B (phyB) in the photocontrol of vegetative and reproductive development in pea have been investigated using null mutants for each phytochrome. White-light-grown phyA phyB double mutant plants show severely impaired de-etiolation both at the seedling stage and later in development, with a reduced rate of leaf production and swollen, twisted internodes, and enlarged cells in all stem tissues. PhyA and phyB act in a highly redundant manner to control de-etiolation under continuous, high-irradiance red light. The phyA phyB double mutant shows no significant residual phytochrome responses for either de-etiolation or shade-avoidance, but undergoes partial de-etiolation in blue light. PhyB is shown to inhibit flowering under both long and short photoperiods and this inhibition is required for expression of the promotive effect of phyA. PhyA is solely responsible for the promotion of flowering by night-breaks with white light, whereas phyB appears to play a major role in detection of light quality in end-of-day light treatments, night breaks and day extensions. Finally, the inhibitory effect of phyB is not graft-transmissible, suggesting that phyB acts in a different manner and after phyA in the control of flower induction.
Light-induced changes in the volume of protoplasts bathed in a medium of constant osmolarity are useful indications of light-dependent cellular osmoregulation. With this in mind, we investigated the effect of light on the volume of protoplasts isolated from the elongating stems of pea (Pisum sativum) seedlings raised under red light. The protoplasts were isolated separately from epidermal peels and the remaining peeled stems. Under continuous red light, the protoplasts of peeled stems swelled steadily, but those of epidermal peels maintained a constant volume. Experiments employing far-red light and phytochrome-deficient mutants revealed that the observed swelling is a light-induced response mediated mainly by phytochromes A and B with a little greater contribution by phytochrome A. Protoplasts of epidermal peels and peeled stems shrank transiently in response to a pulse of blue light. The blue light responsiveness in this shrinking response, which itself is probably mediated by cryptochrome, is under the strict control of phytochromes A and B with equal contributions by these phytochromes. We suggest that the swelling response participates in the maintenance of high tissue tension of elongating stems and that the shrinking response is involved in stem growth inhibition. Other findings include the following: The swelling is caused by uptake of K+ and Cl-. The presence of Ca2+ in the bathing medium is required for phytochrome signaling in the swelling response, but not in the response establishing blue light responsiveness. Phytochrome A mediates the two responses in a totally red/far-red light reversible manner, as does phytochrome B.
The chromatin structure of the pea plastocyanin gene (PetE) was examined at three different transcriptional states by investigating the acetylation states of histones H3 and H4 and the nuclease accessibility of the gene in pea roots, etiolated shoots, and green shoots. The acetylation states of histones associated with different regions of PetE were analyzed by chromatin immunoprecipitation with antibodies specific for acetylated or nonacetylated histone H3 or H4 tails, followed by polymerase chain reaction quantification. Comparison of pea tissues indicated that histone hyperacetylation was associated with increased PetE transcription in green shoots. Moreover, hyperacetylation of both histones H3 and H4 was targeted to the enhancer/promoter region in green shoots, suggesting that only specific nucleosomes along the gene were modified. Time-course digestions of nuclei with micrococcal nuclease and DNaseI indicated that the enhancer/promoter region was more resistant to digestion in the inactive gene in pea roots than was the same region in the active gene in shoots, whereas the transcribed region of PetE was digested similarly among the tissues. This finding indicates that transcription is accompanied by changes in the nuclease accessibility of the enhancer/promoter region only. Moreover, these results indicate that the changes in nuclease accessibility are organ specific, whereas histone hyperacetylation is light dependent, and they suggest that changes in nuclease accessibility precede histone hyperacetylation during PetE activation.
Structural features of cytochrome f necessary for assembly into the cytochrome bf complex were examined in isolated pea chloroplasts following import of (35)S-labelled chimeric precursor proteins, consisting of the presequence of the small subunit of Rubisco fused to the turnip cytochrome f precursor. Assembly was detected by nondenaturing gel electrophoresis of dodecyl maltoside-solubilized thylakoid membranes. A cytochrome f polypeptide unable to bind haem because of mutagenesis of Cys21 and Cys24 to alanine residues was assembled into the complex and had similar stability to the wild-type polypeptide. This indicates that covalent haem binding to cytochrome f is not necessary for assembly of the protein into the cytochrome bf complex. A truncated protein lacking the C-terminal 33 amino acid residues, including the transmembrane span and the stroma-exposed region, was translocated across the thylakoid membrane, had a similar stability to wild-type cytochrome f but was not assembled into the complex. This indicates that the C-terminal region of cytochrome f is important for assembly into the complex. A mutant cytochrome f unable to bind haem and lacking the C-terminal region was also translocated across the thylakoid membrane but was extremely labile, indicating that, in the absence of the C-terminal membrane anchor, haem-less cytochrome f is recognized by a thylakoid proteolytic system.
Isolation and characterization of two severe alleles at the Stamina pistilloida (Stp) locus reveals that Stp is involved in a wide range of developmental processes in the garden pea. The most severe allele, stp-4, results in flowers consisting almost entirely of sepals and carpels. Production of ectopic secondary flowers in stp-4 plants suggests that Stp is involved in specifying floral meristem identity in pea. The stp mutations also reduce the complexity of the compound pea leaf, and primary inflorescences often terminate prematurely in an aberrant sepaloid flower. In addition, stp mutants were shorter than their wild-type siblings due to a reduction in cell number in their internodes. Fewer cells were also found in the epidermis of the leaf rachis of stp mutants. Examination of the effects of stp-4 in double mutant combinations with af, tl, det, and veg2-2-mutations known to influence leaf, inflorescence, and flower development in pea-suggests that Stp function is independent of these genes. A synergistic interaction between weak mutant alleles at Stp and Uni indicated that these two genes act together, possibly to regulate primordial growth. Molecular analysis revealed that Stp is the pea homolog of the Antirrhinum gene Fimbriata (Fim) and of UNUSUAL FLORAL ORGANS (UFO) from Arabidopsis. Differences between Fim/UFO and Stp mutant phenotypes and expression patterns suggest that expansion of Stp activity into the leaf was an important step during evolution of the compound leaf in the garden pea.
Auxin/indole-3-acetic acid (Aux/IAA) genes encode short-lived transcription factors that are induced as a primary response to the plant growth hormone IAA or auxin. Gain-of-function mutations in Arabidopsis genes, SHY2/IAA3, AXR3/IAA17, and AXR2/IAA7 cause pleiotropic phenotypes consistent with enhanced auxin responses, possibly by increasing Aux/IAA protein stability. Semidominant mutations shy2-1D, shy2-2, axr3-1, and axr2-1 induce ectopic light responses in dark-grown seedlings. Because genetic studies suggest that the shy2-1D and shy2-2 mutations bypass phytochrome requirement for certain aspects of photomorphogenesis, we tested whether SHY2/IAA3 and related Aux/IAA proteins interact directly with phytochrome and whether they are substrates for its protein kinase activity. Here we show that recombinant Aux/IAA proteins from Arabidopsis and pea (Pisum sativum) interact in vitro with recombinant phytochrome A from oat (Avena sativa). We further show that recombinant SHY2/IAA3, AXR3/IAA17, IAA1, IAA9, and Ps-IAA4 are phosphorylated by recombinant oat phytochrome A in vitro. Deletion analysis of Ps-IAA4 indicates that phytochrome A phosphorylation occurs on the N-terminal half of the protein. Metabolic labeling and immunoprecipitation studies with affinity-purified antibodies to IAA3 demonstrate increased in vivo steady-state levels of mutant IAA3 in shy2-2 plants and phosphorylation of the SHY2-2 protein in vivo. Phytochrome-dependent phosphorylation of Aux/IAA proteins is proposed to provide one molecular mechanism for integrating auxin and light signaling in plant development.
The pea lip1 (light-independent photomorphogenesis1) mutant shows many of the characteristics of light-grown development when grown in continuous darkness. To investigate the identity of LIP1, cDNAs encoding the pea homolog of COP1, a repressor of photomorphogenesis identified in Arabidopsis, were isolated from wild-type and lip1 pea seedlings. lip1 seedlings contained a wild-type COP1 transcript as well as a larger COP1' transcript that contained an internal in-frame duplication of 894 bp. The COP1' transcript segregated with the lip1 phenotype in F(2) seedlings and could be translated in vitro to produce a protein of approximately 100 kD. The COP1 gene in lip1 peas contained a 7.5-kb duplication, consisting of exons 1 to 7 of the wild-type sequence, located 2.5 kb upstream of a region of genomic DNA identical to the wild-type COP1 DNA sequence. Transcription and splicing of the mutant COP1 gene was predicted to produce the COP1' transcript, whereas transcription from an internal promoter in the 2.5-kb region of DNA located between the duplicated regions of COP1 would produce the wild-type COP1 transcript. The presence of small quantities of wild-type COP1 transcripts may reduce the severity of the phenotype produced by the mutated COP1' protein. The genomic DNA sequences of the COP1 gene from wild-type and lip1 peas and the cDNA sequences of COP1 and COP1' transcripts have been submitted to the EMBL database under the EMBL accession numbers AJ276591, AJ276592, AJ289773, and AJ289774, respectively.
In gram-negative bacteria, many important changes in gene expression and behavior are regulated in a population density-dependent fashion by N-acyl homoserine lactone (AHL) signal molecules. Exudates from pea (Pisum sativum) seedlings were found to contain several separable activities that mimicked AHL signals in well-characterized bacterial reporter strains, stimulating AHL-regulated behaviors in some strains while inhibiting such behaviors in others. The chemical nature of the active mimic compounds is currently unknown, but all extracted differently into organic solvents than common bacterial AHLs. Various species of higher plants in addition to pea were found to secrete AHL mimic activities. The AHL signal-mimic compounds could prove to be important in determining the outcome of interactions between higher plants and a diversity of pathogenic, symbiotic, and saprophytic bacteria.
The fnrN gene from Rhizobium leguminosarum UPM791 controls microaerobic expression of both nitrogen fixation and hydrogenase activities in symbiotic cells. Two copies of fnrN are present in this strain, one chromosomal (fnrN1) and the other located in the symbiotic plasmid (fnrN2). Their expression was studied by cloning the regulatory regions in lacZ promoter-probe vectors. The fnrN genes were found to be autoregulated: they are expressed only at basal levels under aerobic conditions; they are highly expressed under microaerobic conditions; and they are expressed at basal levels in the double mutant DG2 (fnrN1 fnrN2) under any condition. The promoters of both genes contain two FnrN-binding sequences (anaeroboxes), centred at positions -12.5 (proximal anaerobox) and -44.5 (distal anaerobox). Expression analysis and gel retardation experiments with fnrN1-derivative promoter mutants altered in key bases of the anaerobox sequences demonstrated that binding of FnrN1 to the distal anaerobox is necessary for microaerobic activation of transcription, and that binding of FnrN1 to the proximal anaerobox results in transcriptional repression. The apparent affinity of FnrN1 for the proximal anaerobox was fivefold lower than for the distal anaerobox, resulting in repression of transcription of fnrN1 only at high-FnrN1 concentrations. This positive and negative autoregulation mechanism ensures an equilibrated expression of fnrN in response to microaerobic conditions.
Microtubules are thought to be major determinants of plant morphogenesis, through effects on planes of cell division and on directions of differential cell expansion. In differentiation and redifferentiation processes, tubulin expression may prove a useful early indicator of cell activity. We examined the expression and localization of the pea alpha-tubulin gene TubA1 in situ and in transgenic alfalfa (Medicago sativa) to explore its use as a probe for plant development, and as a test case for correct developmental expression between two legume species commonly compared for studies of symbiosis with Rhizobium. The TubA1 mRNA was more abundant in root tips and immature leaves than in other tissues of pea. The promoter of TubA1 was fused to beta-glucuronidase (GUS) to analyze alpha-tubulin expression in transgenic alfalfa. Transient assays indicated that the TubA1 gene is transcribed at moderate levels compared to the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Histochemical staining for GUS activity confirmed a correlation between TubA1 expression and cell division in nodules, roots and leaves. TubA1 promoter activity was first detected in the inner cortex of the root between 18 h and 24 h after spot inoculation with Rhizobium meliloti. Expression of a c-myc epitope fused to the carboxy-terminus of TubA1 resulted in an incorporation into the microtubular cytoskeleton, demonstrating the effectiveness of at least one epitope tag in creating functional tubulin fusions.
Introduction by electroporation of different parsley (Petroselinum crispum) CHS-promoter/beta-glucuronidase(GUS)-reporter constructs into pea (Pisum sativum L.) protoplasts leads to a high constitutive GUS-expression and to the loss of the light-inducibility seen in the homologous parsley protoplast system. These results indicate that Unit 1 of the parsley CHS-promoter is only partly responsible for the GUS-expression detected. Instead, additional cis-elements, which are located downstream within 100 bp from the transcriptional start site, mediate the de-repression in pea protoplasts. In contrast, in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) cells, the GUS expression from the heterologous CHS/GUS construct is controlled by elements between Unit 1 and -100 bp. In both pea and yeast cells, transcription factors different from those regulating UV-responsiveness in parsley, are probably mediating the constitutive expression from the heterologous construct. The results with pea protoplasts imply that protoplastation of pea leaf cells itself induces de-repression as a result of stress to the protoplasts. This notion was strengthened by the finding that mRNA levels of the endogenous chalcone synthase were drastically increased as the result of the protoplastation procedure.
Since some heat-inducible genes [heat shock (hs) genes] can be induced by virus infection in pea [e.g. Hsp70; Aranda et al. 1996, Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 93, 15289-15293], we have investigated the effect that heat and virus replication may have on the expression of a heat-shock transcription factor gene (Hsf). We have characterized what appears to be the only member of the Hsf family in pea, PsHsfA. Similar to Hsp70, PsHsfA is heat-inducible in vegetative and embryonic tissues, which is concordant with the presence of heat shock elements (HSEs) and stress responsive elements (STREs) on its promoter sequence. The expression of PsHsfA during virus replication was studied in pea cotyledons and leaves, and compared to that of Hsp70. In situ hybridization experiments showed that whereas Hsp70 is induced, there is no detectable increased accumulation of PsHsfA RNA associated with the replication of pea seed-borne mosaic potyvirus (PSbMV). These experiments indicate that there is a selective control of virus-induced hs gene expression, and suggest that different regulatory pathways control hs gene expression during heat shock and virus replication.
We have isolated and sequenced four overlapping cDNA clones to identify the full-length cDNA for topoisomerase II (PsTopII) from pea. Using degenerate primers, based on the conserved amino acid sequences of other eukaryotic type II topoisomerases, a 680 bp fragment was PCR-amplified with pea cDNA as template. This fragment was used as a probe to screen an oligo-dT-primed pea cDNA library. A partial cDNA clone was isolated that was truncated at the 3' end. RACE-PCR was employed to isolate the remaining portion of the gene. The total size of PsTopII is 4639 bp with an open reading frame of 4392 bp. The deduced amino acid sequence shows a strong homology to other eukaryotic topoisomerase II (topo II) at the N-terminus end. The topo II transcript was abundant in proliferative tissues. We also show that the level of topo II transcripts could be stimulated by exogenous application of growth factors that induced proliferation in vitro cultures. Light irradiation to etiolated tissue strongly stimulated the expression of topo II. These results suggest that topo II gene expression is up-regulated in response to light and hormones and correlates with cell proliferation. Besides, we have also isolated and analysed the 5'-flanking region of the pea TopII gene. This is first report on the isolation of a putative promoter for topoisomerase II from plants.
Gibberellin (GA) 20-oxidase (GA 20-ox) and GA 3beta-hydroxylase (GA 3beta-hy) are enzymes that catalyze the late steps in the formation of active GAs, and are potential control points in the regulation of GA biosynthesis by light. We have investigated the photoregulation of the GA 20-ox and GA 3beta-hy transcript levels in pea (Pisum sativum L.). The GA 20-ox transcript level was higher in light-grown seedlings than in etiolated seedlings, whereas GA 3beta-hy mRNA accumulation was higher in etiolated seedlings. However, transfer of etiolated seedlings to light led to a 5-fold increase in the expression of both transcripts 4 h after transfer. GA 20-ox mRNA accumulation is regulated by both phytochromes A and B. Transfer to light also resulted in a 6-fold decrease in GA(1) levels within 2 h. These results suggest that the light-induced drop in GA(1) level is not achieved through regulation of GA 20-ox and GA 3beta-hy mRNA accumulation. The application of exogenous GA(1) to apical buds of etiolated seedlings prior to light treatments inhibited the light-induced accumulation of both GA 20-ox and GA 3beta-hy mRNA, suggesting that negative feedback regulation is an important mechanism in the regulation of GA 20-ox and GA 3beta-hy mRNA accumulation during de-etiolation of pea seedlings.
Pea seedlings grown in continuous red light accumulate significant levels of Lhcb1 RNA. When treated with a single pulse of blue light with a total fluence >10(4) micromol m(-2), the rate of Lhcb1 transcription is increased, whereas the level of Lhcb1 RNA is unchanged from that in control seedlings. This RNA destabilization response occurs in developing leaves but not in the apical bud. The data presented here indicate that the same response occurs in the cotyledons of etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings. The blue light-induced destabilization response persists in long hypocotyl hy4 and phytochrome phyA, phyB, and hy1 mutants as well as in far-red light-grown seedlings, indicating that neither CRY1 (encoded by the hy4 locus) nor phytochrome is the sole photoreceptor. Studies with transgenic plants indicate that the destabilization element in the pea Lhcb1*4 transcript resides completely in the 5' untranslated region.
A DNA-binding protein, VsENBP1, previously isolated from Vicia sativa was shown to bind in a sequence-specific manner to the early nodulin ENOD12 gene promoter from Pisum sativum. Here, the functional importance of the VsENBP1 binding sites on the PsENOD12B promoter has been studied in vivo. A promoter-gusA fusion in which a mutation was introduced at the putative target sequence, AATAA, was inactive in nodules of transgenic Vicia hirsuta roots. Gel retardation assays showed that VsENBP1 does not bind to the mutated promoter segment, suggesting that VsENBP1 activates the PsENOD12B expression in nodules through its interaction with its target sequence. In the presence of the 35S enhancer, an ENOD12 promoter-GUS construct gave expression in root vascular tissue in addition to the root nodules. Overexpression of Vsenbp1 in transgenic V. hirsuta roots reduced the leaky expression in root vascular tissue in contrast to nodules in which a small increase in GUS expression was observed. The results indicate that VsENBP1 acts as a repressor of ENOD12 expression in root tissue.
The analysis of pea rbcS-3A promoter sequence showed that BoxII was necessary for the control of rbcS-3A gene expression by light. GT-1, a DNA-binding protein that interacts with BoxII in vitro, is a good candidate for being a light-modulated molecular switch controlling gene expression. However, the relationship between GT-1 activity and light-responsive gene activation still remains hypothetical. Because no marked de novo synthesis was detected after light treatment, light may induce post-translational modifications of GT-1 such as phosphorylation or dephosphorylation. Here, we show that recombinant GT-1 (hGT-1) of Arabidopsis can be phosphorylated by various mammalian kinase activities in vitro. Whereas phosphorylation by casein kinase II had no apparent effect on hGT-1 DNA binding, phosphorylation by calcium/calmodulin kinase II (CaMKII) increased the binding activity 10-20-fold. Mass spectrometry analyses of the phosphorylated hGT-1 showed that amongst the 6 potential phosphorylatable residues (T86, T133, S175, T179, S198 and T278), only T133 and S198 are heavily modified. Analyses of mutants altered at T86, T133, S175, T179, S198 and T278 demonstrated that phosphorylation of T133 can account for most of the stimulation of DNA-binding activity by CaMKII, indicating that this residue plays an important role in hGT-1/BoxII interaction. We further showed that nuclear GT-1 DNA-binding activity to BoxII was reduced by treatment with calf intestine phosphatase in extracts prepared from light-grown plants but not from etiolated plants. Taken together, our results suggest that GT-1 may act as a molecular switch modulated by calcium-dependent phosphorylation and dephosphorylation in response to light signals.
It was previously shown that in pea (Pisum sativum), rDNA repeats contain a polar replication fork barrier that blocks progression of the replication machinery moving in the direction opposite to transcription. This barrier maps in the untranscribed spacer close to the 3' end of the 25S gene. Very similar barriers are also found in the rDNA of yeast, Xenopus and mammalian cultured cells. This high conservation indicates that the rDNA barrier plays a relevant biological role. Progression of replication forks through the DNA sequence where the barrier maps in pea was investigated in plasmids replicating in Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. No barrier was detected in these heterologous systems, indicating that the DNA sequence by itself was insufficient to block the replication machinery. Therefore, trans-acting factors were likely to be required. Taking advantage of the natural sequence heterogeneity in pea rDNA, we obtained evidence that a 27 bp imperfect tandem repeat is involved in the arrest of replication. Moreover, nuclear protein(s) specifically bound to this repeat suggesting that this DNA/protein complex is responsible for the polar arrest of replication forks.
As part of a programme to identify seed coat-specific transcripts in pea (Pisum sativum cv. Finale) using the differential display method, we identified and isolated a cDNA encoding a MADS box transcription factor. The predicted peptide contains 247 amino acids with the conserved N-terminal MADS box and is closely related to the AP1/AGL9 subfamily of the MADS box proteins. In addition to weak expression in petals, stamens and carpels, this MADS box mRNA is specifically expressed in the seed coat during seed development.
The relationship between co-suppression and DNA methylation was explored in transgenic plants showing inducible co-suppression following infection with a cytoplasmically replicating RNA virus. Induction resulted in a loss of transgene mRNA and resistance to further infection, factors typical of post-transcriptional gene silencing. In infected plants, de novo methylation of the transgene appeared to precede the onset of resistance and only occurred in plants where the outcome was co-suppression. The methylation was limited to sequences homologous to the viral RNA and occurred at both symmetric and non-symmetric sites on the DNA. Although methylation is predicted to occur in mitotic cells, the virus was found not to access the meristem. A diffusible sequence-specific signal may account for the epigenetic changes in those tissues.
The transcription factor AtMYB2 binds to two sequence motifs in the promoter of the Arabidopsis ADH1 gene. The binding to the GT-motif (5'-TGGTTT-3') is essential for induction of ADH1 by low oxygen, while binding to the second motif, MBS-2, is not essential for induction. We show that AtMYB2 is induced by hypoxia with kinetics compatible with a role in the regulation of ADH1. Like ADH1, AtMYB2 has root-limited expression. When driven by a constitutive promoter, AtMYB2 is able to transactivate ADH1 expression in transient assays in both Arabidopsis and Nicotiana plumbaginifolia protoplasts, and in particle bombardment of Pisum sativum leaves. Mutation of the GT-motif abolished binding of AtMYB2 and caused loss of activity of the ADH1 promoter in both transient assays and transgenic Arabidopsis plants. These results are consistent with AtMYB2 being a key regulatory factor in the induction of the ADH1 promoter by low oxygen.
We have isolated and characterized a genomic clone encoding the 41 kDa monomer T-protein. This gene called gdcT spans approximately 3 kbp and is composed of four exons interrupted by three introns (321, 691 and 114 bp). The splice sites for donor and acceptor are in agreement with the canonical GT/AG rule. Primer extension strongly suggests the presence of two major transcription start sites. The first transcription start site around 43 bases downstream of a putative TATA box was assigned the +1 position. The second (+31) is not correlated with a putative TATA box, but revealed a pyrimidine-rich region which is very similar to the initiator element. Sequence analysis of the 5'-upstream region of the gene reveals three consensus regions found in the nuclear genes encoding the chloroplastic proteins of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (rbcS) and the chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (cab) such as an AT-rich sequence localized at -539 to -530, a box II core sequence GGTTAA (-123 to -118) and between -364 and -354 a tandem GATA motif. These elements are known to be involved respectively in the regulation of light-responsiveness and cell-type specificity expression of plant genes. Gel shift assays indicate that the box II core sequence could bind protein nuclear factors similar to the trans-acting factor which interact with corresponding promoter region of rbcS gene.
Plastid nucleoids are known to bind to the envelope membrane in developing chloroplasts. Here, plastid DNA is extensively replicated. We previously detected a DNA binding protein in the inner envelope membranes of developing plastids in pea and named it PEND (for plastid envelope DNA binding) protein. In this study, we report on the structure and molecular characterization of a cDNA for the PEND protein. As a result of screening cDNA libraries in lambdagt11 with one of the target sequences of the PEND protein as a probe, we obtained a clone (PD2) for a novel DNA binding protein consisting of 633 amino acid residues. Analysis of the N-terminal sequence of the purified PEND protein indicated that the transit peptide is just 16 residues long. The PEND protein was detected specifically in the plastid envelope membrane of young unopened leaf buds by immunoblot analysis. The PEND protein consists of a basic region plus zipper region, an unprecedented sextuple repeat region, and a putative membrane-spanning region. The basic region with a zipper region seems to have diverged from that of other plant transcription factors. In addition, the PEND protein could be a distant homolog of the trans-Golgi network integral membrane proteins. The PEND protein is therefore a novel type of DNA binding protein that binds to the membrane as an intrinsic membrane protein.
Cop1 protein plays an important role in seedling development of higher plants. The cDNA of cop1 gene from pea (Pisum sativum) was cloned and sequenced. Cop1 protein of pea is predicted to have 672 amino acids and a molecular mass of 76 kDa. Sequence comparison between Cop1 proteins of pea and Arabidopsis thaliana revealed that the two Cop1 proteins were highly homologous in the regions with functional domains and at the C-terminus. Immunoblotting performed with polyclonal antibodies against recombinant Cop1 of pea showed that Cop1 protein was present in seedlings germinated both in light and darkness.
Irradiation of etiolated Arabidopsis or pea, or dim-red-light-grown pea seedling with a single, short (under 10 s) pulse of blue light (threshold at 0.1 mumol/m2) is sufficient to induce the expression of specific members of the Lhcb gene family including the pea Lhcb1*4 gene and the Arabidopsis Lhcb1*3 gene. Other Lhcb genes, such as the pea Lhcb1*3 gene and the Arabidopsis Lhcb1*1 and 1*2 genes are unaffected by this blue-light treatment. Transgenic Arabidopsis bearing pea Lhcb1*3::Gus (beta-glucuronidase), pea Lhcb1*4::Gus or Arabidopsis Lhcb1*3::Gus constructs were used to determine if pea and Arabidopsis employ a similar mechanism to achieve blue-light induced Lhcb expression. Examination of the respective Gus expression patterns in white-light-grown seedlings indicates that the pea promoters are active and properly expressed in the Arabidopsis background. Irradiation of dark-grown Arabidopsis with a 20 s pulse of blue light with a total fluence of 100 mumol/m-2 results in expression of the pea Lhcb1*4::Gus (beta-glucuronidase) construct, but not of the pea Lhcb1*3::Gus construct indicating that the pea promoters respond correctly to blue light in the Arabidopsis background. Fluence-response, time-course and reciprocity characteristics for the blue-light-induced expression of the pea Lhcb1*4::Gus construct closely resemble those of the endogenous Arabidopsis Lhcb genes, confirming the proper interpretation of the Arabidopsis blue-light-signaling mechanism by the pea Lhcb1*4 promoter and suggesting that the signaling mechanisms in the two plants are very similar, if not identical. Fluence response data for the steady-state level of transcript derived from an Arabidopsis Lhcb1*3::Gus construct extending 200 bp upstream of the site of transcription indicate that the blue light responsive elements(s) are contained within this 200 bp region.
Plant Myb proteins represent a group of transcription factors which have a DNA-binding domain similar to that found in the products of the animal myb proto-oncogenes. Members of the Myb family regulate the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoids, including anthocyanin and phlobaphene pigments, in several species. In this study, PCR with degenerate primers was used to analyse the presence of myb-like genes in pea (Pisum sativum L.). A fragment representing a flower bud-expressed gene, designated myb26, was recovered, and a full length cDNA was isolated from a pea flower bud cDNA library. The predicted protein is 217 amino acids long and its Myb-domain and carboxy terminal region show extensive homology to the snap-dragon proteins Myb305 and Myb340, both of which regulate phenylpropanoid biosynthesis. Expression of myb26 is flower-specific and parallels the expression of flavonoid biosynthetic genes, increasing as the flower bud matures and intensifies in colour. However, myb26 represents neither of the two known regulatory genes for anthocyanin production in pea, nor does it complement mutants of the myb-like anthocyanin regulatory gene an2 in petunia. Myb26 was expressed in E. coli as a fusion protein. It was shown that in vitro Myb26 recognizes the c-Myb and P-box-like binding sites representing cis-elements in the promoter regions of several phenylpropanoid biosynthetic genes. The results suggest that myb26 is a previously undefined gene involved in regulation of some aspect of phenylpropanoid production in pea.
Here, we examine the cis-elements and trans-factors affecting the expression of asparagine synthetase (AS) genes whose transcription is negatively regulated by light. The promoters for the AS1 and AS2 genes of pea were isolated, sequenced, and functionally dissected for their ability to confer regulated expression to the GUS reporter gene in transgenic tobacco. Histochemical analysis of transgenic plants demonstrated that the AS1 and AS2 promoters show identical patterns of cell-specific expression. The more highly active AS1 promoter was further demonstrated to confer negative light-regulation to the GUS gene in transgenic tobacco. Deletion analysis and gain-of-function experiments showed that 124 bp of the AS1 promoter was sufficient to confer light-activated repression to a heterologous promoter. Potential conserved transcription regulatory elements, Box B, Box C, and Box C' within this region were shown to bind to nuclear proteins by gel shift analysis. A light-specific DNA:protein interaction was detected with Box B. The nuclear factors that bind to Box C and C' elements of AS1 are competed by a putative repressor element 'RE1' defined previously in the oat phytochrome gene whose transcription is also repressed by light. The Box B and C/C'-Box/RE1-binding factors were found in nuclear extracts of tobacco, pea, and Arabidopsis and may therefore be universal factors involved in light-activated transcriptional repression.
Pea (Pisum sativum L. cv. Greenfeast) plants were exposed to supplementary ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation (biologically effective dose rates normalised to 300 nm, UV-B[BE,300]: 0.18, 0.32 or 1.4 W m[-2]). Leaf nicotinamide, trigonelline, GSHtot (total glutathione) and GSSG (oxidised glutathione) levels remained unchanged after exposure to the lowest dose rates. 1.4 W m(-2) UV-B(BE,300) gave rise to 60-fold and 4.5-fold increases in GSSG and GSHtot, respectively. 3.5-fold and 9.5-fold increases were found in nicotinamide and trigonelline, respectively. cab (Chlorophyll-a/b-binding protein) transcript levels decreased and CHS (chalcone synthase) and PAL (phenylalanine ammonia-lyase) mRNA increased after shorter UV-B exposures (hours) to the higher dose rate of UV-B, and after exposure to the intermediate dose rate. CHS and PAL mRNAs also increased after prolonged exposure to the lowest dose rate. cab transcripts completely disappeared, whereas CHS and PAL mRNA levels rose by 60-fold and 17-fold, respectively, after 12 h exposure at the highest dose rate and 12 h of development. Our results indicate that nicotinamide or trigonelline do not function as signalling compounds for CHS and PAL gene expression. Elevated nicotinamide and trigonelline levels occur in response to UV-B, but only at UV-B doses high enough to cause oxidative stress.
The plant hormone indoleacetic acid (IAA) transcriptionally activates early genes in plants. The Aux/IAA family of early genes encodes proteins that are short-lived and nuclear-localized. They also contain a putative prokaryotic betaalphaalpha DNA binding motif whose formation requires protein dimerization. Here, we show that the pea PS-IAA4 and Arabidopsis IAA1 and IAA2 proteins perform homo- and heterotypic interactions in yeast using the two-hybrid system. Gel-filtration chromatography and chemical cross-linking experiments demonstrate that the PS-IAA4 and IAA1 proteins interact to form homodimers in vitro. Deletion analysis of PS-IAA4 indicates that the betaalphaalpha containing acidic C terminus of the protein is necessary for homotypic interactions in the yeast two-hybrid system. Screening an Arabidopsis lambda-ACT cDNA library using IAA1 as a bait reveals heterotypic interactions of IAA1 with known and newly discovered members of the Arabidopsis Aux/IAA gene family. The new member IAA24 has similarity to ARF1, a transcription factor that binds to an auxin response element. Combinatorial interactions among the various members of the Aux/IAA gene family may regulate a variety of late genes as well as serve as autoregulators of early auxin-regulated gene expression. These interactions provide a molecular basis for the developmental and tissue-specific manner of auxin action.
Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae UPM791 contains a second copy of the fnrN gene, which encodes a redox-sensitive transcriptional activator functionally homologous to Escherichia coli Fnr. This second copy (fnrN2) is located in the symbiotic plasmid, while fnrN1 is in the chromosome. Isolation and sequencing of the fnrN2 gene revealed that the deduced amino acid sequence of FnrN2 is 87.5% identical to the sequence of FnrN1, including a conserved cysteine-rich motif characteristic of Fnr-like proteins. Individual R. leguminosarum fnrN1 and fnrN2 mutants exhibited a Fix+ phenotype and near wild-type levels of nitrogenase and hydrogenase activities in pea (Pisum sativum L.) nodules. In contrast, an fnrN1 fnrN2 double mutant formed ineffective nodules lacking both nitrogenase and hydrogenase activities. Unlike the wild-type strain and single fnrN1 or fnrN2 mutants, the fnrN1 fnrN2 double mutant was unable to induce micro-oxic or bacteroid activation of the hypBFCDEX operon, which encodes proteins essential for hydrogenase synthesis. In the search for symbiotic genes that could be controlled by FnrN, a fixNOQP operon, putatively encoding a micro-oxically induced, bacteroid-specific cbb3-type terminal cytochrome oxidase, was isolated from strain UPM791 and partially sequenced. The fixNOQP operon was present in a single copy located in the symbiotic plasmid, and an anaerobox was identified in the fixN promoter region. Consistent with this, a fixNOQP'-lacZ fusion was shown to be highly induced in micro-oxic cells of the wild-type strain. A high level of micro-oxic induction was also observed in single fnrN1 and fnrN2 mutants, but no detectable induction was observed in the fnrN1 fnrN2 double mutant. The lack of expression of fixNOQP in the fnrN1 fnrN2 double mutant is likely to cause the observed Fix- phenotype. These data demonstrate that, contrary to the situation in other rhizobia, FnrN controls both hydrogenase and nitrogenase activities of R. leguminosarum bv. viciae UPM791 in the nodule and suggest that this strain lacks a functional fixK gene.
Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae expresses an uptake hydrogenase in symbiosis with peas (Pisum sativum) but, unlike all other characterized hydrogen-oxidizing bacteria, cannot express it in free-living conditions. The hydrogenase-specific transcriptional activator gene hoxA described in other species was shown to have been inactivated in R. leguminosarum by accumulation of frameshift and deletion mutations. Symbiotic transcription of hydrogenase structural genes hupSL originates from a -24/-12 type promoter (hupSp). A regulatory region located in the -173 to -88 region was essential for promoter activity in R. leguminosarum. Activation of hupSp was observed in Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia coli cells expressing the K. pneumoniae nitrogen fixation regulator NifA, and in E. coli cells expressing R. meliloti NifA. This activation required direct interaction of NifA with the essential -173 to -88 regulatory region. However, no sequences resembling known NifA-binding sites were found in or around this region. NifA-dependent activation was also observed in R. etli bean bacteroids. NifA-dependent hupSp activity in heterologous hosts was also absolutely dependent on the RpoN sigma-factor and on integration host factor. Proteins immunologically related to integration host factor were identified in R. leguminosarum. The data suggest that hupSp is structurally and functionally similar to nitrogen fixation promoters. The requirement to coordinate nitrogenase-dependent H2 production and H2 oxidation in nodules might be the reason for the loss of HoxA in R. leguminosarum and the concomitant NifA control of hup gene expression. This evolutionary acquired control would ensure regulated synthesis of uptake hydrogenase in the most common H2-rich environment for rhizobia, the legume nodule.
Petal senescence is an example of a highly reproducible cell death programme. In this programme, DNA is fragmented internucleosomally and cells with condensed nuclei containing an increased number of 5' ends can be detected with the TUNEL technique. The pea homologue of defender against apoptotic death (dad), a gene described to suppress endogenous programmed cell death in Caenorhabditis elegans and mammals was isolated. Expression studies show that dad declines dramatically upon flower anthesis disappearing in senescent petals, and is down-regulated by the plant hormone ethylene.
Three cDNAs (ext3, ext127, and ext26), originally isolated by differential screening from a root-hair cDNA library of Vigna unguiculata, were found to encode extensin-like cell wall proteins. Transcripts homologous to these cDNAs were only detected in root hairs where mRNA levels decreased 1 day after inoculation with rhizobia. This coincided with the onset of root-hair deformation, the first morphological step in the Rhizobium-legume interaction. Decreases in transcript levels following inoculation with wild-type Rhizobium sp. NGR234 were more pronounced than with NGR delta nodABC, a mutant deficient in Nod-factor production. Inoculation with a rhizobial strain carrying a mutation in a gene encoding a transcriptional activator for nod genes (NGR delta nodD1) did not repress mRNA levels, indicating that a second nodulation signal may be present that is nodD dependent. Application of purified NodNGR factors only affected transcript levels of ext3. The genomic locus of the gene homologous to ext26 (Ext26G) was cloned. In the 5' flanking region, several potential TATA boxes and CAP signals were identified. Part of the promoter region shares homology with the Pisum sativum seed lectin promoter and the Nicotiana tabacum nitrate reductase promoter region. Nonetheless, the function of these homologous regions in gene regulation is unknown.
The pea genes PsENOD12A and PsENOD12B are expressed in the root hairs shortly after infection with the nitrogen-fixing bacterium Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae or after application of purified Nod factors. A 199 bp promoter fragment of the PsENOD12B gene contains sufficient information for Nod factor-induced tissue-specific expression. We have isolated a Vicia sativa cDNA encoding a 1641 amino acid protein, ENBP1, that interacts with the 199 bp ENOD12 promoter. Two different DNA-binding domains were identified in ENBP1. A domain containing six AT-hooks interacts specifically with an AT-rich sequence located between positions -95 and -77 in the PsENOD12B promoter. A second domain in ENBP1 is a cysteine-rich region that binds to the ENOD12 promoter in a sequence non-specific but metal-dependent way. ENBP1 is expressed in the same cell types as ENOD12. However, additional expression is observed in the nodule parenchyma and meristem. The presence of three small overlapping ORFs in the 5'-untranslated region of the ENBP1 cDNA indicates that ENBP1 expression might be regulated at the translational level. The interaction of ENBP1 with a conserved AT-rich element within the ENOD12 promoter and the presence of the ENBP1 transcript in cells expressing ENOD12 strongly suggest that ENBP1 is a transcription factor involved in the regulation of ENOD12. Finally, the C-terminal region of ENBP1 shows strong homology to a protein from rat that is specifically expressed in testis tissue.
Plasmid pAL618 contains the genetic determinants for H2 uptake (hup) from Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae, including a cluster of 17 genes named hupSLCDEFGHIJK-hypABFCDE. A 1.7-kb segment of insert DNA located downstream of hypE has now been sequenced, thus completing the sequence of the 20441-bp insert DNA in plasmid pAL618. An open reading frame (designated hypX) encoding a protein with a calculated M(r) of 62300 that exhibits extensive sequence similarity with HoxX from Alcaligenes eutrophus (52% identity) and Bradyrhizobium japonicum (57% identity) was identified 10 bp downstream of hypE. Nodule bacteroids produced by hypX mutants in pea (Pisum sativum L.) plants grown at optimal nickel concentrations (100 microM) for hydrogenase expression, exhibited less than 5% of the wild-type levels of hydrogenase activity. These bacteroids contained wild-type levels of mRNA from hydrogenase structural genes (hupSL) but accumulated large amounts of the immature form of HupL protein. The Hup-deficient mutants were complemented for normal hydrogenase activity and nickel-dependent maturation of HupL by a hypX gene provided in trans. From expression analysis of hypX-lacZ fusion genes, it appears that hypX gene is transcribed from the FnrN-dependent hyp promoter, thus placing hypX in the hyp operon (hypBFCDEX). Comparisons of the HypX/HoxX sequences with those in databases provided unexpected insights into their function in hydrogenase synthesis. Similarities were restricted to two distinct regions in the HypX/HoxX sequences. Region I, corresponding to a sequence conserved in N10-formyltetrahydrofolate-dependent enzymes involved in transferring one-carbon units (C1), was located in the N-terminal half of the protein, whereas region II, corresponding to a sequence conserved in enzymes of the enoyl-CoA hydratase/isomerase family, was located in the C-terminal half. These similarities strongly suggest that HypX/HoxX have dual functions: binding of the C1 donor N10-formyltetrahydrofolate and transfer of the C1 to an unknown substrate, and catalysis of a reaction involving polarization of the C = O bond of an X-CO-SCoA substrate. These results also suggest the involvement of a small organic molecule, possibly synthesized with the participation of an X-CO-SCoA precursor and of formyl groups, in the synthesis of the metal-containing active centre of hydrogenase.
Trg-31 is a pea gene which is rapidly induced in response to dehydration stress. Trg-31 belongs to a family of membrane intrinsic proteins that play a role in facilitating inter-membrane transport. In order to understand the mechanism of regulation of Trg-31 expression we defined the cis-acting elements of the Trg-31 promoter and the trans-acting factors that interact with them. Deletion analysis of the Trg-31 promoter in transgenic tobacco plants indicated the presence of two positive regulatory region: (1) between the -1412 to -1066 nucleotides and (2) between the -559 to -391 nucleotides, with respect to the transcription initiation site. A negative regulatory element was also identified between -1066 and -559 nucleotides. All three regulatory regions specifically regulated Trg-31 induction in leaf tissue and had little or no effect on Trg-31 induction in root tissue. Gel-mobility shift assays indicated the presence of leaf nuclear proteins that interacted with the -1412 to -1066 and -1066 to -559 regions and an 'ABRE-like' sequence at -74 in the 5' promoter region of Trg-31.
The C2H2 TFIIIA/Krüppel class of zinc finger proteins are an important group of regulatory nucleic acid binding factors and have been extensively studied in humans, Drosophila and yeast. We have employed 3' RACE PCR, using a highly degenerate oligonucleotide primer, for the facile isolation of a C2H2 zinc finger protein cDNA (Pszf1) from pea petals. The Pszf1 cDNA open reading frame potentially encodes a protein with two widely separated zinc fingers similar to zinc finger proteins from petunia and wheat. This class of two-fingered zinc finger proteins, possessing a wide and variable linker sequence, appears to be unique to plants. Three regions outside the zinc finger domains are also conserved between the members of the plant zinc finger protein family and one of these regions is a candidate nuclear localisation signal. The Pszf1 amino acid sequence is most similar to that of the petunia Epf1 protein, they possess an interfinger linker sequence of approximately the same length and they have a similar expression pattern with maximal transcript accumulation in mature petals, suggesting that Pszf1 may be the pea homologue of the petunia Epf1 zinc finger gene.
Pea (Pisum sativum L.) bacteroids produced by Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. viciae UPM791 synthesize a membrane-bound (NiFe) hydrogenase which oxidizes H2 arising from the nitrogen fixation process in root nodules. Synthesis of the active enzyme requires the products of the structural genes hupSL and an array of accessory proteins from at least 15 additional genes, including the gene cluster hypABFCDE, likely involved in nickel metabolism. Unlike the hupSL genes, which are expressed only in symbiosis, the hypBFCDE operon was also activated in vegetative cells in response to low pO2 in the culture medium. In microaerobic cells and in bacteroids, transcription of the hypBFCDE operon occurred from a promoter, P5b, with a transcription initiation site located 190 bp upstream of the ATG start codon of hypB, within the coding sequence of hypA. Transcription start site 5b was preceded by an Fnr box (anaerobox), 5'-TTGAgccatgTCAA-3', centered at position -39.5. Expression of the P5b promoter in the heterologous Rhizobium meliloti bacterial host was dependent on the presence of an active fixK gene. A 2.6-kb EcoRI fragment was isolated from an R. leguminosarum bv. viciae UPM791 gene bank by complementing an R. meliloti FixK- mutant. Sequencing of this DNA fragment identified an fnrN gene, and cassette insertion mutagenesis demonstrated that R. leguminosarum bv. viciae fnrN is able to replace the R. meliloti fixK gene for activation of both the R. leguminosarum bv. viciae hypBFCDE operon and the R. meliloti fix genes. However, bacteroids from a genomic FnrN- mutant of R. leguminosarum bv. viciae exhibited wild-type levels of hydrogenase activity. Microaerobic expression of P(5b) was reduced to ca. 50% of the wild-type level in the FnrN(-) mutant. These results indicate that hyp gene expression escapes mutagenesis of the fnrN gene and suggest the existence of a second fnr-like gene in R. leguminosarum by. viciae. Southern blot analysis with an fnrN internal probe revealed the presence of a second genomic region with homology to fnrN.
ENOD12 is one of the first nodulin genes expressed upon inoculation with Rhizobium and also purified Nod factors are able to induce ENOD12 expression. The ENOD12 gene family in pea (Pisum sativum) has two members. A cDNA clone representing PsENOD12A [26] and a PsENOD12B genomic clone [7] have been previously described. The isolation and characterization of a PsENOD12A genomic clone is presented in this paper. By using a Vicia hirsuta-Agrobacterium rhizogenes transformation system it is shown that both genes have a similar expression pattern in transgenic V. hirsuta root nodules. Promoter analyses of both PsENOD12 promoters showed that the 200 bp immediately upstream of the transcription start are sufficient to direct nodule-specific and Nod factor-induced gene expression.
Transcripts of higher plant mitochondria are modified post-transcriptionally by RNA editing. To distinguish between the mechanisms by which the cytidine to uridine transition could occur a combined transcription/RNA editing assay and an in vitro RNA editing system were investigated. Mitochondria isolated from etiolated pea seedlings and potato tubers were supplied with [alpha-32P]CTP to radiolabel the mitochondrial run-on transcripts. High molecular weight run-on transcripts were isolated and hydrolyzed, and nucleotide identities were analyzed by one- and two-dimensional thin layer chromatography. The amount of label comigrating with UMP nucleotides increases with extended incubation times. Analogous products were obtained by incubation of [alpha-32P]CTP or [5-3H]CTP radiolabeled in vitro transcripts with a mitochondrial lysate from pea mitochondria. 5-3H label of the cytosine base was detected in the UMP spot after incubation of in vitro transcripts with mitochondrial lysate. These results are consistent with a deamination reaction involved in this post-transcriptional C to U modification process. To prove that cytidines are deaminated specifically in vitro transcripts were reisolated after incubation and analyzed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Sequence analysis clearly shows that only cytidines at editing sites are edited while residual cytidines are not modified and suggests that site-specific factors are involved in RNA editing of plant mitochondria.
The glutamine synthetase (GS) gene family in pea (Pisum sativum) consists of four nuclear genes encoding distinct isoenzymes. Molecular studies have show that the GS2 gene encoding chloroplast-localized GS is expected in specific cell types and is regulated by diverse factors such as light and photorespiration. Here, we present the nucleotide sequence of the pea GS2 gene promoter. To identify the elements involved in regulation of GS2 expression, GS2 promoter-deletion analyses were performed using GS2-GUS fusions in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum). This analysis revealed that the GS2 transit peptide is not required for mesophyll cell-specific expression of beta-glucuronidase (GUS). GUS activity was induced 2- to 4-fold in light-grown versus etiolated T1 seedlings. However, high levels of GUS activity were observed in etiolated seedlings. This observation demonstrated that regulation of expression of GS2, a nonphotosynthetic light-regulated gene, involves additional factors. A 323-bp GS2 promoter sequence is sufficient to confer light regulation to the GUS reporter gene in leaves of mature transgenic tobacco. Light-regulated expression of this pea gene promoter is observed in both tobacco and Arabidopsis, suggesting that the regulatory elements are conserved. Gel-shift analysis detected DNA-protein complexes formed with potential transcription elements within this short, light-responsive GS2 promoter fragment.
Both elicitor and supprescin (suppressor) are present in the pycnospore germination fluid of a pea pathogen Mycospharella pinodes. A nuclear run-on assay revealed that supprescin rapidly deactivated elicitor-triggered transcription of the gene encoding phenylalnine ammonia-lyase in pea epicotyl tissues. The mechanism underlying the deactivation of the plant defense gene by signal molecules secreted from the fungal pathogen was investigated. Cis-acting sequences and trans-acting factors responsive to supprescin in a TATA-proximal region of a member of the phenylalanine ammonia-lyase gene family in pea were examined in vitro. Gel mobility-shift assays and DNase I footprinting analysis revealed that the promoter region of PSPAL2 was modified by the binding of nuclear factors at multiple sites that were possibly involved in supprescin-mediated deactivation. The prominent changes by supprescin were observed at boxes 2 and 4 and near exonic sequences.
Early light-inducible proteins (ELIPs) are nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins whose genes are transiently transcribed during the greening process of etiolated plants. In the present work the regulation of ELIP gene expression by blue and red light has been investigated in plumulas of etiolated pea plants (Pisum sativum). The results show that the steady-state level of ELIP transcripts is controlled by a combined action of phytochrome and blue light receptor systems and, in addition, depends on the age of the seedlings. Both a low-light fluence system of blue and a very-low-fluence system of red light are involved in ELIP induction. The threshold for accumulation of ELIP transcripts was as low as 10-5 [mu]E m-2 s-1 for both light qualities but a different pattern of accumulation was obtained in blue and in red light. Blue light not only acts at the level of transcription but also regulates the stability of the ELIP transcripts in a light intensity-dependent manner. Moreover, it is shown that product(s) of nuclear gene(s) negatively regulate the steady-state level of ELIP transcripts during the 1st h of illumination with red light. Preillumination of seedlings with white light abolishes this repression. Accumulation of ELIP transcripts requires "plastid factors" in both blue and red light qualities.
We have isolated the Pisum sativum (pea) lox1:Ps:3 gene which encodes a lipoxygenase that is 84% identical in coding sequence to the LOX-3 gene from Glycine max (soybean). The 10028 bp sequence includes 5895 bp 5' to the transcription start site and 707 bp 3' to the stop codon. The coding region of lox1:Ps:3 contains eight introns, at positions equivalent to those in the soybean LOX-3 and L-4, the Phaseolus vulgaris (Frenchbean) LOX1, and the Pisum sativum lox1:Ps:2 genes. The first intron is unusually small. The 5'-flanking sequence contains two regions that have the potential to form hairpin structures, but few motifs known to interact with transcription factors. Despite their similarity in terms of expression, the lox1:Ps:3 and lox1:Ps:2 genes have little similarity within their 5'-flanking regions.
Previously, it has been shown that a trimer of a 22 bp fragment of the promoter of the seed-specific pea lectin gene confers high expression in seed. Here it is reported that this fragment contains a binding site for the cloned basic domain/leucine zipper (bZIP) proteins TGA1a and Opaque-2 (O2). Gel shift assays, DNasel footprinting and methylation interference assays using purified TGA1a were performed to determine whether additional binding sites are present in the psl promoter. Within the 469 bp upstream region only one other TGA1a binding site was found, which is much weaker than the one present in the 22 bp element. Both O2 and TGA1a bound to the odd base palindromic C-box sequence, ATGAGTCAT, present within the 22 bp fragment. The 22 bp fragment also contains the sequence CACGTA, which contains the ACGT core usually found in binding sites for bZIP proteins. However, this sequence did not significantly contribute to bZIP protein binding. The binding affinity of TGA1a for the odd base palindromic sequence was low relative to a high-affinity C-box (ATGACGTCAT). By contrast, O2 strongly bound to the odd base C-box; the affinity was comparable with that for high-affinity G-(GACACGTGTC) and C-boxes. It is concluded that the presence of an ACGT core sequence is not a prerequisite for high-affinity binding of O2.
The PDA1 promoter of the phytopathogenNectria haematococca MPVI (anamorph Fusarium solani) offers a model for regulation of a fungal virulence gene in response to plant host-specific signals. Expression of the PDA1 gene, encoding pisatin demethylase, is induced in culture by pisatin, the isoflavanoid phytoalexin of pea. This pisatin induction is suppressed by nutritional factors. We have been studying the mechanism of pisatin induction through in vitro identification of regulatory factors and regulatory elements of the PDA1 promoter. We have developed an in vitro transcription system for N. haematococca which accurately initiates at the PDA1 promoter and reflects the pisatin induction of PDA1 mRNA observed in vivo. This in vitro activity allowed a functional test of a limited set of 5' upstream deletions in the PDA1 promoter. In vitro binding studies have identified a DNA binding factor which is appears in mycelial extract after treatment of the mycelium with pisatin. This pisatin-responsive factor binds to a minimum size region of 35 bp approximately 500 bp upstream of the transcription initiation site. Tests using the in vitro transcription assay and in vivo competition both indicate a role for this binding region in the high expression of PDA1 under pisatin-induced conditions. Southwestern blotting has identified one component of this binding activity to be a approximately 35 kDa protein. The availability of these functional and structural tests of function, in conjunction with complementary in vivo tests, allow the detailed dissection of the signal pathway leading from exposure of the cell to pisatin towards the activation of PDA1 transcription.
An RNA polymerase activity has been purified from pea (Pisum sativum) chloroplast extracts with a distinct transcriptional specificity for a chloroplast messenger gene. This activity (ms-RNA pol) differs from the pea RNA polymerase preparation reported by Sun, Shapiro, Wu & Tewari [(1986) Plant Mol. Biol. 6, 429-439], which specifically transcribes only the rRNA gene (rb-RNA pol). The specificity of transcription has been assessed by the synthesis in vitro of discrete transcripts of predicted sizes using cloned promoter regions of the chloroplast psbA and 16 S rRNA genes. The ms-RNA pol preparation, with polypeptides ranging in apparent molecular mass from 22 to 180 kDa, correctly initiates transcription from recombinant plasmids containing the psbA promoter and does not support 16 S rRNA promoter-directed transcription. The two activities differ also in their response to Mn2+ ions. To investigate whether the two transcriptional activities share common functional polypeptides, monoclonal antibodies were developed against the rb-RNA pol preparation. Three clones were selected on the basis of their ability to inhibit transcription in vitro of the 16 S rRNA gene by rb-RNA pol. The antibodies from these clones independently recognized three polypeptides with molecular masses of 27, 90 and 95 kDa on immunoblots. Antibodies cross-reacting with the 90 kDa polypeptide completely eliminated the specific retardation of an end-labelled 16 S rRNA promoter fragment in a mobility-shift assay, whereas the antibodies against the 95 kDa polypeptide resulted in the formation of a ternary complex (enzyme-DNA-antibody). The antibodies cross-reacting with the 27 kDa polypeptide, however, did not alter the mobility of the retarded DNA-enzyme complex on the gel. These antibodies also inhibited transcription in vitro of the psbA gene by ms-RNA pol and recognized polypeptides of identical molecular masses in the ms-RNA pol. These results show that the three polypeptides are functional components of the chloroplast transcriptional complex and appear to be involved in the transcription of both rRNA and mRNA genes. Transcriptional specificity is probably conferred by ancillary transcription factor(s) which remain to be identified.
Two protein factors binding to the regulatory region of the pea chlorophyl a/b binding protein gene AB80 have been identified. One of these factors is found only in green tissue but not in etiolated or root tissue. The second factor (denominated ABF-2) binds to a DNA sequence element that contains a direct heptamer repeat TCTCAAA. It was found that presence of both of the repeats is essential for binding. ABF-2 is present in both green and etiolated tissue and in roots and factors analogous to ABF-2 are present in several plant species. Computer analysis showed that the TCTCAAA motif is present in the regulatory region of several plant genes.
The nucleotide (nt) sequence of the Rhizobium leguminosarum nifH promoter region contains a consensus promoter, a consensus upstream activator sequence (UAS), a pseudo (psi) promoter and a psi UAS. We mapped the transcription start point for the consensus promoter sequence by primer extension. This promoter differs from the consensus in one of the four supposedly invariant nt and can be activated by the Klebsiella pneumoniae nifA product in Escherichia coli. Under these conditions the psi promoter and psi UAS do not function. A low-copy-number plasmid construct containing the psi UAS as well as the consensus UAS delayed the onset of symbiotic nitrogen fixation in nodules induced on Pisum sativum. Studies of high-copy-number nifH promoter constructs showed that partial deletion of the consensus UAS does not alter the ability to inhibit nitrogen fixation by titration of NifA suggesting that NifA can also complex with RNA polymerase containing the alternative sigma-factor RpoN.
Dehydration response element binding factors (DREBs) are a family of plant-specific transcription factors that regulate plant responses. In this study, members of the SiDREB gene family were identified and analyzed in terms of their physicochemical properties, phylogeny, and structure of the encoded proteins. The expression patterns of the DREB transcription factors in foxtail millet under stress were analysed by combining the qRT-PCR data for foxtail millet after exposure to low temperature, abscisic acid (ABA), and osmotic stress (20% PEG 6000). There were 56 SiDREB genes, which were divided into six subgroups, that were located on nine chromosomes of foxtail millet. Chromosomal localization showed that the SiDREB genes were unevenly distributed across nine foxtail millet chromosomes. Furthermore, qRT‒PCR experiments revealed that 19 SiDREB genes play a role in the response to abiotic stress and ABA. The results of this study lay a foundation for further research on the functions of the DREB genes in foxtail millet and will be beneficial foe the genetic improvement of this species.
Conserved non-coding sequences (CNS) are islands of non-coding sequences conserved across species and play an important role in regulating the spatiotemporal expression of genes. Identification of CNS provides valuable information about potentially functional genomic elements, regulatory regions, and helps to gain insights into the genetic basis of crop agronomic traits. Here, we comprehensively analyze CNS in maize, by comparing the genomes of maize inbred line B73 (Zea mays ssp. mays), its close wild relative Zea mays spp. mexicana, and other grasses in Poaceae, including sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), foxtail millet (Setaria italica) and two adlay (Coix lacryma) cultivars. There were 289,931 CNS found in two syntenic gene pairs, while 51,701 CNS were conserved within at least three species. To explore the regulatory characteristics of the CNS identified, the flanking regions of CNS were compared with the peaks called using both transposase-accessible chromatin with high-throughput sequencing (ATAC-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation with high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-Seq) data of histone modifications. It was found that CNS in maize were enriched in open chromatin regions compared with randomly selected non-coding regions of similar length. A significant enrichment of transcription factor binding sites was found within CNS sequences, including different transcription factors involved in abiotic stress response, such as OBP (OBF-BINDING PROTEIN) family and Adof1 (Encodes dof zinc finger protein). To investigate the epigenetic modification patterns in CNS, ChIP-Seq data for histone modifications H3K9ac, H3K4me3, H3K36me3, H3K9me3, and H3K27ac were further analyzed to depict the changes along CNS. Our findings revealed significantly elevated levels of transcription-promoting histone modifications in the CNS regions compared to randomly selected non-coding sequences with an equal number and similar length. Notably, CNS were also identified on both Vgt1 (Vegetative to generative transition 1) and ZmCCT10. In addition, CNS with potential functions were identified based on SNPs within CNS significantly associated with various agronomic traits in maize, which holds potential utility in molecular breeding for maize. In summary, we identified and characterized CNS in maize through genomic comparative analysis, which provides valuable insights into their potential regulatory effects on gene expression and phenotypic variation.
Pollen development and germination play a crucial role in the sexual reproduction of plants. This study analysis of transcriptional dynamics of foxtail millet pollen with other tissues and organs (ovule, glume, seedling and root) through RNA-sequencing revealed that a total of 940 genes were up-regulated in foxtail millet pollen. Based on this, we analyzed the genes involved in pollen tube growth of receptor kinases and small peptides, calcium signaling, small G proteins, vesicle transport, cytoskeleton, cell wall correlation, and transcription factors that are up-regulated in pollen. At the same time, we compared the gene expression of foxtail millet pollen and mature anthers, and found that a large number of transcription factors were specific expressed in mature anthers. In addition, we verified the accuracy of the transcriptome data using RT-qPCR. Finally, employed the antisense Oligonucleotide (as-ODN) system found that inhibiting SiPME67 expression would cause abnormal growth of pollen tube subapical. In summary, we preliminarily analyzed the genes that were up-regulated in foxtail millet pollen, which provided a reference for understanding the male sterility mechanism of foxtail millet in the future and theoretical basis for creating new male sterility lines.
Nitrogen is a critical factor in plant growth, development, and crop yield. NODULE-INCEPTION-like proteins (NLPs), which are plant-specific transcription factors, function as nitrate sensors and play a vital role in the nitrogen response of plants. However, the genome-wide identification of the
In photoperiod-sensitive plants, the CO-like gene (CONSTANS-like, COL) has a crucial function in regulating the timing of flowering. The blooming period in foxtail millet is greatly influenced by the duration of daylight; however, there is a scarcity of data regarding the molecular properties of the COL genes in the foxtail millet. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of the COL gene family in foxtail millet at the genome-wide level. We identified 11 SiCOL genes and performed gene structure analysis, which showed pronounced variation in gene length and intron number among the genes. The examination of COL proteins in foxtail millet and other plant species using phylogenetic analysis revealed that they could be clustered into three distinct groups. Cis-element analysis identified elements related to light-responsiveness, hormones, and abiotic stress in the promoter region of the SiCOL gene. Furthermore, tissue-specific expression analysis showed widespread expression of all 11 SiCOL genes in various foxtail millet tissues and organs, particularly in leaves and panicles. Collinearity analysis identified 14 syntenic gene pairs in both foxtail millet and rice. The results also revealed diurnal oscillations in the transcription levels of SiCOL genes under different light conditions. Moreover, among the 11 genes, SiCO, SiCOL1, and SiCOL6 expression levels were negatively correlated with flowering time variation in two foxtail cultivars. Additionally, upon constructing a network of predicted molecular interactions, FLOWER LOCUS-like (FTL) and Phytochromea A (PHY A) were suggested to potentially interact with SiCO, SiCOL1, and SiCOL6. SiCO, SiCOL1, and SiCOL6 have the potential for flowering and heading in foxtail millet. This research enhances our comprehension of the role and control of the SiCOL gene family constituents in foxtail millet, establishing a basis for future investigations.
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv.) is an environmentally friendly crop that meets the current requirements of international food security and is widely accepted as a photosynthesis research model. However, whether exogenous sucrose treatment has a positive effect on foxtail millet growth remains unknown. Here, we employed physiological and molecular approaches to identify photosynthesis and source capacity associated with exogenous sucrose during the growth of Jingu 21 seedlings. RNA-seq analysis showed that some differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to photosynthesis and carotenoid biosynthesis were induced by exogenous sucrose and that most of these genes were up-regulated. An increase in gas exchange parameters, chlorophyll content, and chlorophyll fluorescence of Jingu 21 was noted after exogenous sucrose addition. Furthermore, exogenous sucrose up-regulated genes encoding sucrose and hexose transporters and enhanced starch and sucrose metabolism. More DEGs were up-regulated by sucrose, the nonstructural carbohydrate (NSC) content in the leaves increased and energy metabolism and sucrose loading subsequently improved, ultimately enhancing photosynthesis under normal and dark conditions. Further analysis revealed that WRKYs, ERFs, HY5, RAP2, and ABI5 could be key transcription factors involved in growth regulation. These results indicate that exogenous sucrose affects the normal photosynthetic performance of foxtail millet by increasing NSC transport and loading. They improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of the effects of exogenous sucrose on photosynthesis in foxtail millet, providing an effective measure to enhance source-sink relationships and improve yield.
The study established split-root system (SRS) in foxtail millet, and identified the molecular regulatory mechanisms and metabolic pathways related to systemic nitrogen signaling based on this system and transcriptome analysis. The growth of crops is primarily constrained by the availability of nitrogen (N), an essential nutrient. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) is a significant orphan crop known for its strong tolerance to barren conditions. Despite this, the signaling pathway of nitrogen in foxtail millet remains largely unexplored. Identifying the candidate genes responsible for nitrogen response in foxtail millet is crucial for enhancing its agricultural productivity. This study utilized the split-root system (SRS) in foxtail millet to uncover genes associated with Systemic Nitrogen Signaling (SNS). Transcriptome analysis of the SRS revealed 2158 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) implicated in SNS, including those involved in cytokinin synthesis, transcription factors, E3 ubiquitin ligase, and ROS metabolism. Silencing of SiIPT5 and SiATL31 genes through RNAi in transgenic plants resulted in reduced SNS response, indicating their role in the nitrogen signaling pathway of foxtail millet. Furthermore, the induction of ROS metabolism-related genes in response to KNO
Among the largest transcription factor families in plants, bZIPs are crucial for various developmental and physiological processes, particularly abiotic stress resistance.
The NODULE-INCEPTION-like protein (NLP) family is a plant-specific transcription factor (TF) family involved in nitrate transport and assimilation in plants, which are essential for improving plant nitrogen use efficiency. Currently, the molecular nature and evolutionary trajectory of NLP genes in the C4 model crop foxtail millet are unknown. Therefore, we performed a comprehensive analysis of NLP and molecular evolution in foxtail millet by scanning the genomes of foxtail millet and representative species of the plant kingdom. We identified seven NLP genes in the foxtail millet genome, all of which are individually and separately distributed on different chromosomes. They were not structurally identical to each other and were mainly expressed on root tissues. We unearthed two key genes (
Nitrogen (N) is a macronutrient limiting crop productivity with varied requirements across species and genotypes. Understanding the mechanistic basis of N responsiveness by comparing contrasting genotypes could inform the development and selection of varieties with lower N demands, or inform agronomic practices to sustain yields with lower N inputs. Given the established role of millets in ensuring climate-resilient food and nutrition security, we investigated the physiological and genetic basis of nitrogen responsiveness in foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.). We had previously identified genotypic variants linked to N responsiveness, and here we dissect the mechanistic basis of the trait by examining the physiological and molecular behaviour of N responsive (NRp-SI58) and non-responsive (NNRp-SI114) accessions at high and low N. Under high N, NRp-SI58 allocates significantly more biomass to nodes, internodes and roots, more N to developing grains, and is more effective at remobilizing flag leaf N compared with NNRp-SI114. Post-anthesis flag leaf gene expression suggests that differences in N induce much higher transcript abundance in NNRp-SI114 than NRp-SI58, a large proportion of which is potentially regulated by APETALA2 (AP2) transcription factors. Overall, the study provides novel insights into the regulation and manipulation of N responsiveness in S. italica.
WUSCHEL-related homeobox (WOX) transcription factors are unique to plants and play pivotal roles in plant development and stress responses. In this investigation, we acquired protein sequences of foxtail millet
Grass leaves are invariantly strap shaped with an elongated distal blade and a proximal sheath that wraps around the stem. Underpinning this shape is a scaffold of leaf veins, most of which extend in parallel along the proximo-distal leaf axis. Differences between species are apparent both in the vein types that develop and in the distance between veins across the medio-lateral leaf axis. A prominent engineering goal is to increase vein density in leaves of C
Selenium-enriched foxtail millet ( To unravel the molecular mechanisms governing selenium accumulation and transportation in foxtail millet, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of selenium content and transcriptome responses in foxtail millet spikelets across different days (3, 5, 7, and 12) under Na Foxtail millet subjected to selenium fertilizer exhibited significantly elevated selenium levels in each tissue compared to the untreated control. Selenate was observed to be transported and accumulated sequentially in the leaf, stem, and spikes. Transcriptome analysis unveiled a substantial upregulation in the transcription levels of genes associated with selenium metabolism and transport, including sulfate, phosphate, and nitrate transporters, ABC transporters, antioxidants, phytohormone signaling, and transcription factors. These genes demonstrated intricate interactions, both synergistic and antagonistic, forming a complex network that regulated selenate transport mechanisms. Gene co-expression network analysis highlighted three transcription factors in the tan module and three transporters in the turquoise module that significantly correlated with selenium accumulation and transportation. Expression of sulfate transporters (SiSULTR1.2b and SiSULTR3.1a), phosphate transporter (PHT1.3), nitrate transporter 1 (NRT1.1B), glutathione S-transferase genes (GSTs), and ABC transporter (ABCC13) increased with SeO This study provides preliminary insights into the mechanisms of selenium accumulation and transportation in foxtail millet. The findings hold theoretical significance for the cultivation of selenium-enriched foxtail millet.
Photosynthetic efficiency is reduced by the dual role of Rubisco, which acts either as a carboxylase or as an oxygenase, the latter leading to photorespiration. C
Chloroplasts are the site of photosynthesis. In land plants, chloroplast biogenesis is regulated by a family of transcription factors named GOLDEN2-like (GLK). In C
In flowering plants, C4 photosynthesis is superior to C3 type in carbon fixation efficiency and adaptation to extreme environmental conditions, but the mechanisms behind the assembly of C4 machinery remain elusive. This study attempts to dissect the evolutionary divergence from C3 to C4 photosynthesis in five photosynthetic model plants from the grass family, using a combined comparative transcriptomics and deep learning technology. By examining and comparing gene expression levels in bundle sheath and mesophyll cells of five model plants, we identified 16 differentially expressed signature genes showing cell-specific expression patterns in C3 and C4 plants. Among them, two showed distinctively opposite cell-specific expression patterns in C3 vs. C4 plants (named as FOGs). The in silico physicochemical analysis of the two FOGs illustrated that C3 homologous proteins of LHCA6 had low and stable pI values of ~6, while the pI values of LHCA6 homologs increased drastically in C4 plants
Abscission is predetermined in specialized cell layers called the abscission zone (AZ) and activated by developmental or environmental signals. In the grass family, most identified AZ genes regulate AZ anatomy, which differs among lineages. A YABBY transcription factor, SHATTERING1 (SH1), is a domestication gene regulating abscission in multiple cereals, including rice and Setaria. In rice, SH1 inhibits lignification specifically in the AZ. However, the AZ of Setaria is nonlignified throughout, raising the question of how SH1 functions in species without lignification. Crispr-Cas9 knockout mutants of SH1 were generated in Setaria viridis and characterized with histology, cell wall and auxin immunofluorescence, transmission electron microscopy, hormonal treatment and RNA-Seq analysis. The sh1 mutant lacks shattering, as expected. No differences in cell anatomy or cell wall components including lignin were observed between sh1 and the wild-type (WT) until abscission occurs. Chloroplasts degenerated in the AZ of WT before abscission, but degeneration was suppressed by auxin treatment. Auxin distribution and expression of auxin-related genes differed between WT and sh1, with the signal of an antibody to auxin detected in the sh1 chloroplast. SH1 in Setaria is required for activation of abscission through auxin signaling, which is not reported in other grass species.
Low-temperature stress limits the growth and development of foxtail millet. Freezing stress caused by sudden temperature drops, such as late-spring coldness, often occurs in the seedling stage of foxtail millet. However, the ability and coping strategies of foxtail millet to cope with such stress are not clear. In the present study, we analyzed the self-regulatory mechanisms of freezing stress in foxtail millet. We conducted a physiological study on foxtail millet leaves at -4 °C for seven different durations (0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 h). Longer freezing time increased cell-membrane damage, relative conductance, and malondialdehyde content. This led to osmotic stress in the leaves, which triggered an increase in free proline, soluble sugar, and soluble protein contents. The increases in these substances helped to reduce the damage caused by stress. The activities of superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, and catalase increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) content. The optimal time point for the response to freezing stress was 8 h after exposure. The transcriptome analysis of samples held for 8 h at -4 °C revealed 6862 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), among which the majority are implicated in various pathways, including the starch and sucrose metabolic pathways, antioxidant enzyme pathways, brassinolide (BR) signaling pathway, and transcription factors, according to Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment. We investigated possible crosstalk between BR signals and other pathways and found that BR signaling molecules were induced in response to freezing stress. The beta-amylase (BAM) starch hydrolase signal was enhanced by the BR signal, resulting in the accelerated degradation of starch and the formation of sugars, which served as emerging ROS scavengers and osmoregulators to resist freezing stress. In conclusion, crosstalk between BR signal transduction, and both starch and sucrose metabolism under freezing stress provides a new perspective for improving freezing resistance in foxtail millet.
CRISPR/Cas-based transcriptional activators have been developed to induce gene expression in eukaryotic and prokaryotic organisms. The main advantages of CRISPR/Cas-based systems is that they can achieve high levels of transcriptional activation and are very easy to program via pairing between the guide RNA and the DNA target strand. SunTag is a second-generation system that activates transcription by recruiting multiple copies of an activation domain (AD) to its target promoters. SunTag is a strong activator; however, in some species it is difficult to stably express. To overcome this problem, we designed MoonTag, a new activator that works on the same basic principle as SunTag, but whose components are better tolerated when stably expressed in transgenic plants. We demonstrate that MoonTag is capable of inducing high levels of transcription in all plants tested. In Setaria, MoonTag is capable of inducing high levels of transcription of reporter genes as well as of endogenous genes. More important, MoonTag components are expressed in transgenic plants to high levels without any deleterious effects. MoonTag is also able to efficiently activate genes in eudicotyledonous species such as Arabidopsis and tomato. Finally, we show that MoonTag activation is functional across a range of temperatures, which is promising for potential field applications.
The Heat Shock Factor (HSF) transcription factor family is a central and required component of plant heat stress responses and acquired thermotolerance. The HSF family has dramatically expanded in plant lineages, often including a repertoire of 20 or more genes. Here we assess and compare the composition, heat responsiveness, and chromatin profiles of the HSF families in maize and
Early maturity is an important agronomic trait in most crops, because it can solve the problem of planting in stubble for multiple cropping as well as make full use of light and temperature resources in alpine regions, thereby avoiding damage from low temperatures in the early growth period and early frost damage in the late growth period to improve crop yield and quality. The expression of genes that determine flowering affects flowering time, which directly affects crop maturity and indirectly affects crop yield and quality. Therefore, it is important to analyze the regulatory network of flowering for the cultivation of early-maturing varieties. Foxtail millet (
Drought is a major limiting factor affecting grain production. Drought-tolerant crop varieties are required to ensure future grain production. Here, 5597 DEGs were identified using transcriptome data before and after drought stress in foxtail millet (
Nitrogen fertilizers significantly increase crop yield; however, the negative impact of excessive nitrogen use on the environment and soil requires urgent attention. Improving crop nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) is crucial to increase yields and protect the environment. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.), a gramineous crop with significant tolerance to barren croplands, is an ideal model crop for studying abiotic stress resistance in gramineous crops. However, knowledge of the regulatory network for NUE in foxtail millet is fragmentary. Herein, we identified an R2R3-like MYB transcription factor in foxtail millet, SiMYB30, which belongs to MYB subfamily 17. The expression of SiMYB30 is responsive to low nitrogen (LN) concentration. Compared with wildtype Kitaake, seedlings of rice lines overexpressing SiMYB30 showed significantly increased shoot fresh and dry weights, plant height, and root area under LN treatment indoors. Consistently, overexpression of SiMYB30 in field experiments significantly increased grain and stem nitrogen contents, grain yield per plant, and stem weight in rice. Furthermore, qRT-PCR revealed that SiMYB30 effectively activated the expression of nitrogen uptake-related genes-OsNRT1, OsNRT1.1B, and OsNPF2.4-and nitrogen assimilation-related genes-OsGOGAT1, OsGOGAT2, and OsNIA2. Notably, SiMYB30 directly bound to the promoter of OsGOGAT2 and regulated its expression. These results highlight the novel and pivotal role of SiMYB30 in improving crop NUE.
R2R3-MYB transcription factors play an important role in the synthesis of phenylpropanoid-derived compounds, which in turn provide salt tolerance in plant. In this study, we found that the expression of foxtail millet R2R3-MYB factor SiMYB16 can be induced by salt and drought. SiMYB16 is localized in the nucleus and acts as a transcriptional activator. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that SiMYB16 belongs to the R2R3-MYB transcription factor family subgroup 24. Transgenic rice expressing SiMYB16 (OX16) had a higher survival rate, lower malondialdehyde content, and heavier fresh weight compared with type (WT) under salt stress conditions. The transgenic plants also had a higher germination rate in salt treatment conditions and higher yield in the field compared with wild-type plants. Transcriptome analysis revealed that the up-regulated differential expression genes in the transgenic rice were mainly involved in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, fatty acid elongation, phenylalanine metabolism, and flavonoid biosynthesis pathways. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis also showed that the genes encoding the major enzymes in the lignin and suberin biosynthesis pathways had higher expression level in SiMYB16 transgenic plants. Correspondingly, the content of flavonoid and lignin, and the activity of fatty acid synthase increased in SiMYB16 transgenic rice compared with wild-type plants under salt stress treatment. These results indicate that SiMYB16 gene can enhance plant salt tolerance by regulating the biosynthesis of lignin and suberin.
Although several aspects of lignin metabolism have been extensively characterized, the mechanism(s) by which lignin monomers are transported across the plasma membrane remains largely unknown. Biochemical, proteomic, expression and co-expression analyses from several plant species support the involvement of active transporters, mainly those belonging to the ABC superfamily. Here, we report on the genome-wide characterization of the ABCG gene subfamily in the model C4 grass Setaria viridis and further identification of the members potentially involved in monolignol transport. A total of 48 genes encoding SvABCGs were found in the S. viridis genome, from which 21 SvABCGs were classified as full-size transporters and 27 as half-size transporters. Comprehensive analysis of the ABCG subfamily in S. viridis based on expression and co-expression analyses support a role for SvABCG17 in monolignol transport: (i) SvABCG17 is orthologous to AtABCG29, a monolignol transporter in Arabidopsis thaliana; (ii) SvABCG17 displays a similar expression profile to that of lignin biosynthetic genes in a set of different S. viridis tissues and along the elongating internode; (iii) SvABCG17 is highly co-expressed with lignin-related genes in a public transcriptomic database; (iv) SvABCG17displays particularly high expression in the top of the S. viridis elongating internode, a tissue undergoing active lignification; (v) SvABCG17 mRNA localization coincides with the histochemical pattern of lignin deposition; and (vi) the promoter of SvABCG17 is activated by secondary cell wall-associated transcription factors, especially by lignin-specific activators of the MYB family. Further studies might reveal further aspects of this potential monolignol transporter, including its real substrate specificity and whether it works redundantly with other ABC members during S. viridis lignification.
Grass inflorescences support floral structures that each bear a single grain, where variation in branch architecture directly impacts yield. The maize (Zea mays) RAMOSA1 (ZmRA1) transcription factor acts as a key regulator of inflorescence development by imposing branch meristem determinacy. Here, we show RA1 transcripts accumulate in boundary domains adjacent to spikelet meristems in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor, Sb) and green millet (Setaria viridis, Sv) inflorescences similar as in the developing maize tassel and ear. To evaluate the functional conservation of syntenic RA1 orthologs and promoter cis sequences in maize, sorghum, and setaria, we utilized interspecies gene transfer and assayed genetic complementation in a common inbred background by quantifying recovery of normal branching in highly ramified ra1-R mutants. A ZmRA1 transgene that includes endogenous upstream and downstream flanking sequences recovered normal tassel and ear branching in ra1-R. Interspecies expression of two transgene variants of the SbRA1 locus, modeled as the entire endogenous tandem duplication or just the nonframeshifted downstream copy, complemented ra1-R branching defects and induced unusual fasciation and branch patterns. The SvRA1 locus lacks conserved, upstream noncoding cis sequences found in maize and sorghum; interspecies expression of a SvRA1 transgene did not or only partially recovered normal inflorescence forms. Driving expression of the SvRA1 coding region by the ZmRA1 upstream region, however, recovered normal inflorescence morphology in ra1-R. These data leveraging interspecies gene transfer suggest that cis-encoded temporal regulation of RA1 expression is a key factor in modulating branch meristem determinacy that ultimately impacts grass inflorescence architecture.
Water deficit is a major constraint for crops of economic importance in almost all agricultural regions. However, plants have an active defense system to adapt to these adverse conditions, acting in the reprogramming of gene expression responsible for encoding microRNAs (miRNAs). These miRNAs promote the regulation to the target gene expression by the post-transcriptional (PTGS) and transcriptional gene silencing (TGS), modulating several pathways including defense response to water deficit. The broader knowledge of the miRNA expression profile and its regulatory networks in response to water deficit can provide evidence for the development of new biotechnological tools for genetic improvement of several important crops. In this study, we used The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-022-01226-z.
Genetic and environmental factors collectively determine plant growth and yield. In the past 20 years, genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have been conducted on crops to decipher genetic loci that contribute to growth and yield, however, plant genotype appears to be insufficient to explain the trait variations. Here, we unravel the associations between genotypic, phenotypic, and rhizoplane microbiota variables of 827 foxtail millet cultivars by an integrated GWAS, microbiome-wide association studies (MWAS) and microbiome genome-wide association studies (mGWAS) method. We identify 257 rhizoplane microbial biomarkers associated with six key agronomic traits and validated the microbial-mediated growth effects on foxtail millet using marker strains isolated from the field. The rhizoplane microbiota composition is mainly driven by variations in plant genes related to immunity, metabolites, hormone signaling and nutrient uptake. Among these, the host immune gene FLS2 and transcription factor bHLH35 are widely associated with the microbial taxa of the rhizoplane. We further uncover a plant genotype-microbiota interaction network that contributes to phenotype plasticity. The microbial-mediated growth effects on foxtail millet are dependent on the host genotype, suggesting that precision microbiome management could be used to engineer high-yielding cultivars in agriculture systems.
Low temperature and end-of-day far-red (EOD-FR) light signaling are two key factors limiting plant production and geographical location worldwide. However, the transcriptional dynamics of EOD-FR light conditions during chilling stress remain poorly understood. Here, we performed a comparative RNA-Seq-based approach to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to EOD-FR and chilling stress in
Transcription factors (TFs) play important roles in plants. Among the major TFs, GATA plays a crucial role in plant development, growth, and stress responses. However, there have been few studies on the GATA gene family in foxtail millet (Setaria italica). The release of the foxtail millet reference genome presents an opportunity for the genome-wide characterization of these GATA genes. In this study, we identified 28 GATA genes in foxtail millet distributed on seven chromosomes. According to the classification method of GATA members in Arabidopsis, SiGATA was divided into four subfamilies, namely subfamilies I, II, III, and IV. Structural analysis of the SiGATA genes showed that subfamily III had more introns than other subfamilies, and a large number of cis-acting elements were abundant in the promoter region of the SiGATA genes. Three tandem duplications and five segmental duplications were found among SiGATA genes. Tissue-specific results showed that the SiGATA genes were mainly expressed in foxtail millet leaves, followed by peels and seeds. Many genes were significantly induced under the eight abiotic stresses, such as SiGATA10, SiGATA16, SiGATA18, and SiGATA25, which deserve further attention. Collectively, these findings will be helpful for further in-depth studies of the biological function of SiGATA, and will provide a reference for the future molecular breeding of foxtail millet.
In C4 plants, the pyruvate (Pyr), phosphate dikinase regulatory protein (PDRP) regulates the activity of the C4 pathway enzyme Pyr, phosphate dikinase (PPDK) in a light-/dark-dependent manner. The importance of this regulatory action to C4 pathway function and overall C4 photosynthesis is unknown. To resolve this question, we assessed in vivo PPDK phospho-regulation and whole leaf photophysiology in a CRISPR-Cas9 PDRP knockout (KO) mutant of the NADP-ME C4 grass green millet (Setaria viridis). PDRP enzyme activity was undetectable in leaf extracts from PDRP KO lines. Likewise, PPDK phosphorylated at the PDRP-regulatory Thr residue was immunologically undetectable in leaf extracts. PPDK enzyme activity in rapid leaf extracts was constitutively high in the PDRP KO lines, irrespective of light or dark pretreatment of leaves. Gas exchange analysis of net CO2 assimilation revealed PDRP KO leaves had markedly slower light induction kinetics when leaves transition from dark to high-light or low-light to high-light. In the initial 30 min of the light induction phase, KO leaves had an ∼15% lower net CO2 assimilation rate versus the wild-type (WT). Despite the impaired slower induction kinetics, we found growth and vigor of the KO lines to be visibly indistinguishable from the WT when grown in normal air and under standard growth chamber conditions. However, the PDRP KO plants grown under a fluctuating light regime exhibited a gradual multi-day decline in Fv/Fm, indicative of progressive photosystem II damage due to the absence of PDRP. Collectively, our results demonstrate that one of PDRP's functions in C4 photosynthesis is to ensure optimal photosynthetic light induction kinetics during dynamic changes in incident light.
Chinese chestnut is an economically important tree species whose yield and quality are seriously affected by red spider attack. Tannins is one of the most important class secondary metabolites in plants, and is closely associated with plant defense mechanisms against insect and herbivory. In our previous studies, it was revealed that several low-tannin foxtail millet varieties growing under the Chinese chestnut trees could attract red spiders to feed on their leaves and protect the chestnut trees from the infestation of red spiders, meanwhile, the growth and yield of foxtail millet plants themselves were not greatly affected. To identify genes related to leaf tannin content and selection of foxtail millet germplasm resources with low tannin content for interplanting with Chinese chestnut and preventing the red spider attack, the leaves of 4 varieties with different levels of tannin content were harvested for comparative transcriptome analysis. In total, 335 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. For acquisition of gene functions and biological pathways they involved in, gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses were performed, and several DEGs were found to possibly participate in the tannins biosynthesis pathway and transport processes of precursors. In addition, according to the PlantTFDB database, some transcription factors were predicted among the DEGs, suggesting their role in regulation of tannins biosynthesis pathway. Our results provide valuable gene resources for understanding the biosynthesis and regulation mechanisms of tannins in foxtail millet, and pave the way for speeding up the breeding of low-tannin varieties through marker-assisted selection, which could be utilized for interplanting with Chinese chestnut trees to confer protection against red spider attack.
Modification of histone acetylation is a ubiquitous and reversible process in eukaryotes and prokaryotes and plays crucial roles in the regulation of gene expression during plant development and stress responses. Histone acetylation is co-regulated by histone acetyltransferase (HAT) and histone deacetylase (HDAC). HAT plays an essential regulatory role in various growth and development processes by modifying the chromatin structure through interactions with other histone modifications and transcription factors in eukaryotic cells, affecting the transcription of genes. Comprehensive analyses of HAT genes have been performed in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. However, little information is available on the HAT genes in foxtail millet (Setaria italica [L.] P. Beauv). In this study, 24 HAT genes (SiHATs) were identified and divided into four groups with conserved gene structures via motif composition analysis. Phylogenetic analysis of the genes was performed to predict functional similarities between Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, and foxtail millet; 19 and 2 orthologous gene pairs were individually identified. Moreover, all identified HAT gene pairs likely underwent purified selection based on their non-synonymous/synonymous nucleotide substitutions. Using published transcriptome data, we found that SiHAT genes were preferentially expressed in some tissues and organs. Stress responses were also examined, and data showed that SiHAT gene transcription was influenced by drought, salt, low nitrogen, and low phosphorus stress, and that the expression of four SiHATs was altered as a result of infection by Sclerospora graminicola. Results indicated that histone acetylation may play an important role in plant growth and development and stress adaptations. These findings suggest that SiHATs play specific roles in the response to abiotic stress and viral infection. This study lays a foundation for further analysis of the biological functions of SiHATs in foxtail millet.
Among the major transcription factors, SPL plays a crucial role in plant growth, development, and stress response. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica), as a C4 crop, is rich in nutrients and is beneficial to human health. However, research on the foxtail millet SPL (SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING-LIKE) gene family is limited. RESULTS: In this study, a total of 18 SPL genes were identified for the comprehensive analysis of the whole genome of foxtail millet. These SiSPL genes were divided into seven subfamilies (I, II, III, V, VI, VII, and VIII) according to the classification of the Arabidopsis thaliana SPL gene family. Structural analysis of the SiSPL genes showed that the number of introns in subfamilies I and II were much larger than others, and the promoter regions of SiSPL genes were rich in different cis-acting elements. Among the 18 SiSPL genes, nine genes had putative binding sites with foxtail millet miR156. No tandem duplication events were found between the SiSPL genes, but four pairs of segmental duplications were detected. The SiSPL genes expression were detected in different tissues, which was generally highly expressed in seeds development process, especially SiSPL6 and SiSPL16, which deserve further study. The results of the expression levels of SiSPL genes under eight types of abiotic stresses showed that many stress responsive genes, especially SiSPL9, SiSPL10, and SiSPL16, were highly expressed under multiple stresses, which deserves further attention. In this research, 18 SPL genes were identified in foxtail millet, and their phylogenetic relationships, gene structural features, duplication events, gene expression and potential roles in foxtail millet development were studied. The findings provide a new perspective for the mining of the excellent SiSPL gene and the molecular breeding of foxtail millet.
Loss of seed shattering was a key step during cereal domestication, and it greatly facilitated seed harvest of the staple cereal foxtail millet (Setaria italica) because the cereal has very small seeds. However, the genetic basis for this loss has been largely unknown. Here, we combined comparative and association mapping to identify an 855-bp Harbinger transposable element insertion in the second exon of the foxtail millet gene shattering1 (sh1) that was responsible for the loss of seed shattering. The sh1 gene encodes zinc finger and YABBY domains. The insert prevents transcription of the second exon, causing partial loss of the zinc finger domain and then loss of natural seed shattering. Specifically, sh1 functions as a transcription repressor and represses the transcription of genes associated with lignin synthesis in the abscission zone, including CAD2. The diversity of sh1 is highly reduced in foxtail millet, consistent with either a severe domestication bottleneck or a selective sweep. Phylogenetic analysis of sh1 further revealed a single origin of foxtail millet in China. Our results support the theories that transposons were the most active factors in genome evolution driving loss of natural seed shattering during foxtail millet domestication and that sh1 underwent parallel selection during domestication across different cereal species.
Characterization of drought-tolerance mechanisms during the jointing stage in foxtail millet under water-limited conditions is essential for improving the grain yield of this C
Salt stress is a major threat to crop quality and yield. Most experiments on salt stress-related genes have been conducted at the laboratory or greenhouse scale. Consequently, there is a lack of research demonstrating the merit of exploring these genes in field crops. Here, we found that the R2R3-MYB transcription factor
Most plant roots have multiple cortex layers that make up the bulk of the organ and play key roles in physiology, such as flood tolerance and symbiosis. However, little is known about the formation of cortical layers outside of the highly reduced anatomy of
GRAS transcription factors perform indispensable functions in various biological processes, such as plant growth, fruit development, and biotic and abiotic stress responses. The development of whole-genome sequencing has allowed the GRAS gene family to be identified and characterized in many species. However, thorough in-depth identification or systematic analysis of GRAS family genes in foxtail millet has not been conducted. In this study, 57 GRAS genes of foxtail millet (SiGRASs) were identified and renamed according to the chromosomal distribution of the SiGRAS genes. Based on the number of conserved domains and gene structure, the SiGRAS genes were divided into 13 subfamilies via phylogenetic tree analysis. The GRAS genes were unevenly distributed on nine chromosomes, and members of the same subfamily had similar gene structures and motif compositions. Genetic structure analysis showed that most SiGRAS genes lacked introns. Some SiGRAS genes were derived from gene duplication events, and segmental duplications may have contributed more to GRAS gene family expansion than tandem duplications. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction showed significant differences in the expression of SiGRAS genes in different tissues and stages of fruits development, which indicated the complexity of the physiological functions of SiGRAS. In addition, exogenous paclobutrazol treatment significantly altered the transcription levels of DELLA subfamily members, downregulated the gibberellin content, and decreased the plant height of foxtail millet, while it increased the fruit weight. In addition, SiGRAS13 and SiGRAS25 may have the potential for genetic improvement and functional gene research in foxtail millet. Collectively, this study will be helpful for further analysing the biological function of SiGRAS. Our results may contribute to improving the genetic breeding of foxtail millet.
Members of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor family perform indispensable functions in various biological processes, such as plant growth, seed maturation, and abiotic stress responses. However, the bHLH family in foxtail millet (Setaria italica), an important food and feed crop, has not been thoroughly studied. In this study, 187 bHLH genes of foxtail millet (SibHLHs) were identified and renamed according to the chromosomal distribution of the SibHLH genes. Based on the number of conserved domains and gene structure, the SibHLH genes were divided into 21 subfamilies and two orphan genes via phylogenetic tree analysis. According to the phylogenetic tree, the subfamilies 15 and 18 may have experienced stronger expansion in the process of evolution. Then, the motif compositions, gene structures, chromosomal spread, and gene duplication events were discussed in detail. A total of sixteen tandem repeat events and thirty-eight pairs of segment duplications were identified in bHLH family of foxtail millet. To further investigate the evolutionary relationship in the SibHLH family, we constructed the comparative syntenic maps of foxtail millet associated with representative monocotyledons and dicotyledons species. Finally, the gene expression response characteristics of 15 typical SibHLH genes in different tissues and fruit development stages, and eight different abiotic stresses were analysed. The results showed that there were significant differences in the transcription levels of some SibHLH members in different tissues and fruit development stages, and different abiotic stresses, implying that SibHLH members might have different physiological functions. In this study, we identified 187 SibHLH genes in foxtail millet and further analysed the evolution and expression patterns of the encoded proteins. The findings provide a comprehensive understanding of the bHLH family in foxtail millet, which will inform further studies on the functional characteristics of SibHLH genes.
MADS-box transcription factors play vital roles in multiple biological processes in plants. At present, a comprehensive investigation into the genome-wide identification and classification of
Foxtail millet (FM) is receiving ongoing increased attention due to its beneficial health effects, including the hypoglycemic effect. However, the underlying mechanisms of the hypoglycemic effect have been underexplored. In the present study, the hypoglycemic effect of FM supplementation was confirmed again in high-fat diet and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats with significantly decreased fasting glucose (FG), glycated serum protein, and areas under the glucose tolerance test (
Inflorescence architecture in cereal crops directly impacts yield potential through regulation of seed number and harvesting ability. Extensive architectural diversity found in inflorescences of grass species is due to spatial and temporal activity and determinacy of meristems, which control the number and arrangement of branches and flowers, and underlie plasticity. Timing of the floral transition is also intimately associated with inflorescence development and architecture, yet little is known about the intersecting pathways and how they are rewired during development. Here, we show that a single mutation in a gene encoding an AP1/FUL-like MADS-box transcription factor significantly delays flowering time and disrupts multiple levels of meristem determinacy in panicles of the C4 model panicoid grass, Setaria viridis. Previous reports of AP1/FUL-like genes in cereals have revealed extensive functional redundancy, and in panicoid grasses, no associated inflorescence phenotypes have been described. In S. viridis, perturbation of SvFul2, both through chemical mutagenesis and gene editing, converted a normally determinate inflorescence habit to an indeterminate one, and also repressed determinacy in axillary branch and floral meristems. Our analysis of gene networks connected to disruption of SvFul2 identified regulatory hubs at the intersection of floral transition and inflorescence determinacy, providing insights into the optimization of cereal crop architecture.
Certain synthetic herbicides can act synergistically with specific bioherbicides. In this study, a sethoxydim herbicide at 0.1× label rate improved biocontrol of herbicide-sensitive green foxtail (Setaria viridis, GFT) by Pyricularia setariae (a fungal bioherbicide agent), but did not change the efficacy on a herbicide-resistant GFT biotype. Reference transcriptomes were constructed for both GFT biotypes via de novo assembly of RNA-seq data. GFT plants treated with herbicide alone, fungus alone and herbicide + fungus were compared for weed-control efficacy and differences in transcriptomes. On herbicide-sensitive GFT, sethoxydim at the reduced rate induced ABA-activated signaling pathways and a bZIP transcription factor 60 (TF bZIP60), while improved the efficacy of biocontrol. The herbicide treatment did not increase these activities or improve biocontrol efficacy on herbicide-resistant plants. An exogenous application of ABA to herbicide-sensitive plants also enhanced bZIP60 expression and improved biocontrol efficacy, which supported the results of transcriptome analysis that identified the involvement of ABA and bZIP60 in impaired plant defense against P. setariae. It is novel to use transcriptome analysis to decipher the molecular basis for synergy between a synthetic herbicide and a bioherbicide agent. A better understanding of the mechanism underlining the synergy may facilitate the development of weed biocontrol.
A novel MADS-box member SiMADS34 is essential for regulating inflorescence architecture and grain yield in Setaria italica. MADS-box transcription factors participate in regulating various developmental processes in plants. Inflorescence architecture is one of the most important agronomic traits and is closely associated with grain yield in most staple crops. Here, we isolated a panicle development mutant simads34 from a foxtail millet (Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv.) EMS mutant library. The mutant showed significantly altered inflorescence architecture and decreased grain yield. Investigation of agronomic traits revealed increased panicle width by 16.8%, primary branch length by 10%, and number of primary branches by 30.9%, but reduced panicle length by 25.2%, and grain weight by 25.5% in simads34 compared with wild-type plants. Genetic analysis of a simads34 × SSR41 F
A genomic resource of drought stress responsive genes/ESTs was generated using Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH) approach in a drought stress tolerant Pennisetum glaucum genotype 841B. Fifty five days old plants were subjected to drought stress after withholding water for different time intervals (10 days, 15 days, 20 days and 25 days). A forward subtractive cDNA library was prepared from isolated RNA of leaf tissue. Differential gene expression under drought stress was validated for selected nine contigs by RT-qPCR. A transcript homologous to Setaria italica ASR3 upregulated under drought stress was isolated from genotype 841B and characterized. Heterologous expression of PgASR3 was validated in Arabidopsis and confirmed under multiple abiotic stress conditions. A total of four independent transgenic lines overexpressing gene PgASR3 were analyzed by Southern blot at T
This report reveals the effects of salt on the photosynthetic electron transport and transcriptome of the glycophyte Setaria viridis (S. viridis) and its salt-tolerant close relative halophyte Spartina alterniflora (S. alterniflora). S. viridis was unable to survive exposed to sodium chloride (NaCl) levels higher than 100 mM, in contrast, S. alterniflora could tolerate NaCl up to 550 mM, with negligible effect on gas exchange related parameters and conductance of electrons transport chain (g
Leaf architecture directly determines canopy structure, and thus, grain yield in crops. Leaf droopiness is an agronomic trait primarily affecting the cereal leaf architecture but the genetic basis and underlying molecular mechanism of this trait remain unclear. Here, we report that DROOPY LEAF1 (DPY1), an LRR receptor-like kinase, plays a crucial role in determining leaf droopiness by controlling the brassinosteroid (BR) signaling output in
Coarse cereal intake has been reported to be associated with reduced risk of colorectal cancer. However, evidence from intervention studies is absent and the molecular basis of this phenomenon remains largely unexplored. This study sought to investigate the effects of foxtail millet and rice, two common staple grains in Asia, on the progression of colitis-associated colorectal cancer (CAC) and define the mechanism involved. In total, 40 BALB/c mice were randomized into four groups. The Normal and azoxymethane/dextran sodium sulfate (AOM/DSS) groups were supplied with an AIN-93G diet, while the millet- and rice-treated groups were supplied with a modified AIN-93G diet. Compared to the AOM/DSS-induced CAC mice supplemented with rice, an increased survival rate, suppressed tumor burden, and reduced disease activity index were observed in the millet-treated group. The levels of IL-6 and IL-17 were decreased in the millet-treated group compared to both the AOM/DSS and AOM/DSS + rice groups. Millet treatment inhibited the phosphorylation of STAT3 and the related signaling proteins involved in cell proliferation, survival and angiogenesis. These beneficial effects were mediated by the activation of gut receptors AHR and GPCRs via the microbial metabolites (indole derivates and short-chain fatty acids) of foxtail millet. Moreover, millet-treatment increased the abundance of
Grain filling is an importantly developmental process which is associated with the yield and quality of foxtail millet (
Deep sequencing of DNase-I treated chromatin (DNase-seq) can be used to identify DNase I-hypersensitive sites (DHSs) and facilitates genome-scale mining of de novo
Plants have developed various sophisticated mechanisms to cope up with climate extremes and different stress conditions, especially by involving specific transcription factors (TFs). The members of the WRKY TF family are well known for their role in plant development, phytohormone signaling and developing resistance against biotic or abiotic stresses. In this study, we performed a genome-wide screening to identify and analyze the WRKY TFs in pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum; PgWRKY), which is one of the most widely grown cereal crops in the semi-arid regions. A total number of 97 putative PgWRKY proteins were identified and classified into three major Groups (I-III) based on the presence of WRKY DNA binding domain and zinc-finger motif structures. Members of Group II have been further subdivided into five subgroups (IIa-IIe) based on the phylogenetic analysis. In-silico analysis of PgWRKYs revealed the presence of various cis-regulatory elements in their promoter region like ABRE, DRE, ERE, EIRE, Dof, AUXRR, G-box, etc., suggesting their probable involvement in growth, development and stress responses of pearl millet. Chromosomal mapping evidenced uneven distribution of identified 97 PgWRKY genes across all the seven chromosomes of pearl millet. Synteny analysis of PgWRKYs established their orthologous and paralogous relationship among the WRKY gene family of Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa and Setaria italica. Gene ontology (GO) annotation functionally categorized these PgWRKYs under cellular components, molecular functions and biological processes. Further, the differential expression pattern of PgWRKYs was noticed in different tissues (leaf, stem, root) and under both drought and salt stress conditions. The expression pattern of PgWRKY33, PgWRKY62 and PgWRKY65 indicates their probable involvement in both dehydration and salinity stress responses in pearl millet. Functional characterization of identified PgWRKYs can be useful in delineating their role behind the natural stress tolerance of pearl millet against harsh environmental conditions. Further, these PgWRKYs can be employed in genome editing for millet crop improvement.
The bHLH transcription factor, PPLS1, interacts with SiMYB85 to control the color of pulvinus and leaf sheath by regulating anthocyanin biosynthesis in foxtail millet (Setaria italica). Foxtail millet (Setaria italica), a self-pollinated crop with numerous small florets, is difficult for cross-pollination. The color of pulvinus and leaf sheath with purple being dominant to green is an indicative character and often used for screening authentic hybrids in foxtail millet crossing. Deciphering molecular mechanism controlling this trait would greatly facilitate genetic improvement of cultivars in foxtail millet. Here, using the F
Atherosclerosis is one of the main causes of cardiovascular diseases. Our previous study indicated that a type of peroxidase derived from foxtail millet bran (FMBP) had prominent antitumor activities. In the present study, we found that FMBP had potential antiatherosclerosis effects. The results showed that FMBP treatment strongly suppressed lipid phagocytosis in both HASMCs and THP-1 cells by 52% and 49%, respectively. Further, FMBP significantly inhibited HASMCs migration by promoting transformation of HASMCs from synthetic to contractile, leading to the decrease of lipid phagocytosis. Simultaneously, FMBP repressed lipid uptake by reducing the expression of CD36 in THP-1 cells. In addition, FMBP reduced the secretion of inflammatory factor IL-1β by inhibiting the expression of STAT3 in THP-1 cells. Interestingly, FMBP also had the same effects in models of atherosclerosis constructed with ApoE-/- mice, including decreased aortic lesion area, repressed aortic sinus CD36 and STAT3 expression, and elevated serum HDL-C concentration. Collectively, these results indicate that FMBP has great potential in preventing the development of atherosclerosis.
Potassium (K) is essential to plant growth and development. Foxtail millet (Setaria italic L.) is an important fodder grain crop in arid and semi-arid regions of Asia and Africa because of its strong tolerance to drought and barren stresses. The molecular mechanisms of physiological and biochemical responses and regulations to various abiotic stresses such as low potassium conditions in foxtail millet are not fully understood, which hinders the research and exploitation of this valuable resource. In this research, we demonstrated that the millet variety Longgu 25 was the most insensitive variety to low potassium stress among other five varieties. The transcriptome analysis of Longgu 25 variety revealed a total of 26,192 and 26,849 genes from the K This study provides a global view of transcriptomic resources relevant to the K
Foxtail millet is very a drought-tolerant crop. Basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors are involved in many drought-stress responses, but foxtail millet bHLH genes have been scarcely examined. We identified 149 foxtail millet bHLH genes in a genome-wide analysis and performed Swiss-Prot, GO, and KEGG pathway analyses for these genes. Phylogenetic analyses placed the genes into 25 clades, with some remaining orphans. We identified homologs based on gene trees and Swiss-Prot annotation. We also inferred that some homologs underwent positive selection in foxtail millet ancestors, and selected motifs differed among homologs. Expression of eight foxtail millet bHLH genes varied with drought stress. One of these genes was localized to a QTL that contributes to drought tolerance in foxtail millet. We also perform a cis-acting regulatory element analysis on foxtail millet bHLH genes and some drought-induced genes. Foxtail millet bHLH genes were inferred to have a possible key role in drought tolerance. This study clarifies both the function of foxtail millet bHLH genes and drought tolerance in foxtail millet.
The morphological and functional diversity of plant form is governed by dynamic gene regulatory networks. In cereal crops, grain and/or pollen-bearing inflorescences exhibit vast architectural diversity and developmental complexity, yet the underlying genetic framework is only partly known.
Trihelix transcription factors (TTF) play important roles in plant growth and response to adversity stress. Until now, genome-wide identification and analysis of this gene family in foxtail millet has not been available. Here, we identified TTF genes in the foxtail millet and its grass relatives, and characterized their functional domains. As to sequence divergence, TTF genes were previously divided into five subfamilies, I-V. We found that Trihelix family members in foxtail millet and other grasses mostly preserved their ancestral chromosomal locations during millions of years' evolution. Six amino acid sites of the SIP1 subfamily possibly were likely subjected to significant positive selection. Highest expression level was observed in the spica, with the SIP1 subfamily having highest expression level. As to the origination and expansion of the gene family, notably we showed that a subgroup of subfamily IV was the oldest, and therefore was separated to define a new subfamily O. Overtime, starting from the subfamily O, certain genes evolved to form subfamilies III and I, and later from subfamily I to develop subfamilies II and V. The oldest gene, Si1g016284, has the most structural changes, and a high expression in different tissues. What's more interesting is that it may have bridge the interaction with different proteins. By performing phylogenetic analysis using non-plant species, notably we showed that a subgroup of subfamily IV was the oldest, and therefore was separated to define a new subfamily O. Starting from the subfamily O, certain genes evolved to form other subfamilies. Our work will contribute to understanding the structural and functional innovation of Trihelix transcription factor, and the evolutionary trajectory.
HD-Zip proteins represent the major transcription factors in higher plants, playing essential roles in plant development and stress responses. Foxtail millet is a crop to investigate the systems biology of millet and biofuel grasses and the HD-Zip gene family has not been studied in foxtail millet. For further investigation of the expression profile of the HD-Zip gene family in foxtail millet, a comprehensive genome-wide expression analysis was conducted in this study. We found 47 protein-encoding genes in foxtail millet using BLAST search tools; the putative proteins were classified into four subfamilies, namely, subfamilies I, II, III, and IV. Gene structure and motif analysis indicate that the genes in one subfamily were conserved. Promotor analysis showed that HD-Zip gene was involved in abiotic stress. Duplication analysis revealed that 8 (~17%) hdz genes were tandemly duplicated and 28 (58%) were segmentally duplicated; purifying duplication plays important roles in gene expansion. Microsynteny analysis revealed the maximum relationship in foxtail millet-sorghum and foxtail millet-rice. Expression profiling upon the abiotic stresses of drought and high salinity and the biotic stress of ABA revealed that some genes regulated responses to drought and salinity stresses via an ABA-dependent process, especially
Myeloblastosis (MYB) transcription factors are one of the largest families of transcription factors in higher plants. They play an important role in plant development, defense response processes, and non-biological stresses, i.e., drought stress. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.), originated in China, is resistant to drought and low nutrition stresses and has been regarded as an ideal material for studying abiotic stress resistance in monocotyledon. In this study, we ran a transcription profile analysis of zheng 204 under low-nitrogen conditions and identified a MYB-like transcription factor SiMYB42, which was up-regulated under low-nitrogen stress. Phylogenetic tree analysis showed that SiMYB42 belongs to R2R3-MYB subfamily and has two MYB conserved domains. Expression pattern analysis showed that SiMYB42 was significantly up-regulated under various stress conditions, including low-nitrogen stress, high salt, drought and ABA conditions. The results of subcellular localization, quantitative real-time PCR and transcriptional activation analysis indicated that SiMYB42 protein localizes to the nucleus and cell membrane of plant cells, mainly expressed in the leaf or root of foxtail millet, and has transcription activation activity. Functional analysis showed that there was no significant difference between transgenic SiMYB42 Arabidopsis and wild-type (WT) Arabidopsis under normal conditions; however, under low-nitrogen condition, the root length, surface area and seedling fresh weight in transgenic SiMYB42 Arabidopsis, were significantly higher than their counterparts in WT. These results suggest that SiMYB42 transgenic plants exhibit higher tolerance to low-nitrogen stress. Expression levels of nitrate transporters genes NRT2.1, NRT2.4 and NRT2.5, which are the transcriptional targets of SiMYB42, were higher in transgenic SiMYB42 Arabidopsis plants than those in WT; the promoter regions of NRT2.1, NRT2.4 and NRT2.5 all have MYB binding sites. These results indicate that SiMYB42 might enhance foxtail millet tolerance to low-nitrogen condition through regulating the expression of nitrate transporter genes. This study reveals the possible functions of SiMYB42 in a low-nitrogen stress response pathway, and provides a foundation for further understanding the entire regulation network of foxtail millet in response to low-nitrogen stress.
The foxtail millet NAC transcription factor NAC1, an ortholog of Arabidopsis NAP, is induced by ABA and senescence and accelerates leaf senescence by promoting ABA biosynthesis. Leaf senescence, a unique developmental stage involving macromolecule degradation and nutrient remobilization, is finely tuned and tightly controlled by different gene families. NO APICAL MERISTEM, ARABIDOPSIS ATAF1, and CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON (NAC) transcription factors have been demonstrated to be involved in the modulation of leaf senescence in many land plant species. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.), an important food and fodder crop, has been studied for its strong stress tolerance and potential to be a biofuel model plant. However, the functional roles of senescence-associated NACs in foxtail millet are still unknown. In this study, we characterized a nuclear localized NAC transcription factor, SiNAC1, which is induced by senescence and concentrated in senescent leaves in foxtail millet. SiNAC1 also positively responds to abscisic acid (ABA) treatment in foxtail millet. Moreover, SiNAC1 promotes the natural and dark-induced leaf senescence by an ABA-dependent manner in Arabidopsis thaliana. NCED2 and NCED3 are elevated by SiNAC1 overexpression, which subsequently promotes ABA biosynthesis in Arabidopsis. Finally, as a homolog of AtNAP, SiNAC1 can partially rescue the delayed leaf senescence phenotype in atnap mutants. Overall, our results demonstrate that SiNAC1 functions as a positive regulator of leaf senescence and is involved in a positive feedback loop via ABA biosynthesis and leaf senescence.
Understanding drought-tolerance mechanisms and identifying genetic dominance are important for crop improvement. Setaria italica, which is extremely drought-tolerant, has been regarded as a model plant for studying stress biology. Moreover, different genotypes of S. italica have evolved various drought-tolerance/avoidance mechanisms that should be elucidated. Physiological and transcriptomic comparisons between drought-tolerant S. italica cultivar 'Yugu1' and drought-sensitive 'An04' were conducted. 'An04' had higher yields and more efficient photosystem activities than 'Yugu1' under well-watered conditions, and this was accompanied by positive brassinosteroid regulatory actions. However, 'An04's growth advantage was severely repressed by drought, while 'Yugu1' maintained normal growth under a water deficiency. High-throughput sequencing suggested that the S. italica transcriptome was severely remodelled by genotype × environment interactions. Expression profiles of genes related to phytohormone metabolism and signalling, transcription factors, detoxification, and other stress-related proteins were characterised, revealing genotype-dependent and -independent drought responses in different S. italica genotypes. Combining our data with drought-tolerance-related QTLs, we identified 20 candidate genes that contributed to germination and early seedling' drought tolerance in S. italica. Our analysis provides a comprehensive picture of how different S. italica genotypes respond to drought, and may be used for the genetic improvement of drought tolerance in Poaceae crops.
Panicle development is an important agronomic trait that aids in determining crop productivity. Foxtail millet and its wild ancestor green foxtail have recently been used as model systems to dissect gene functions. Here, we characterized a recessive mutant of foxtail millet, loose-panicle 1 (lp1), which showed pleiotropic phenotypes, such as a lax primary branching pattern, aberrant branch morphology, semi-dwarfism, and enlarged seed size. The loose panicle phenotype was attributed to increased panicle lengths and decreased primary branch numbers. Map-based cloning, combined with high-throughput sequencing, revealed that LP1, which encodes a novel WRKY transcription factor, is responsible for the mutant phenotype. A phylogenetic analysis revealed that LP1 belongs to the Group I WRKY subfamily, which possesses two WRKY domains (WRKY I and II). A single G-to-A transition in the fifth intron of LP1 resulted in three disorganized splicing events in mutant plants. For each of these aberrant splice variants, the normal C2H2 motif in the WRKY II domain was completely disrupted, resulting in a loss-of-function mutation. LP1 mRNA was expressed in all of the tissues examined, with higher expression levels observed in inflorescences, roots, and seeds at the grain-filling stage. A subcellular localization analysis showed that LP1 predominantly accumulated in the nucleus, which confirmed its role as a transcriptional regulator. This study provides novel insights into the roles of WRKY proteins in regulating reproductive organ development in plants and may help to develop molecular markers associated with crop yields.
TRANSPARENT TESTA GLABRA 1 of Arabidopsis thaliana (AtTTG1) is a WD40 repeat transcription factor that plays multiple roles in plant growth and development, particularly in seed metabolite production. In the present study, to determine whether SiTTG1 of the phylogenetically distant monocot foxtail millet (Setaria italica) has similar functions, we used transgenic Arabidopsis and Nicotiana systems to explore its activities. We found that SiTTG1 functions as a transcription factor. Overexpression of the SiTTG1 gene rescued many of the mutant phenotypes in Arabidopsis ttg1-13 plants. Additionally, SiTTG1 overexpression fully corrected the reduced expression of mucilage biosynthetic genes, and the induced expression of genes involved in accumulation of seed fatty acids and storage proteins in developing seeds of ttg1-13 plants. Ectopic expression of SiTTG1 restored the sensitivity of the ttg1-13 mutant to salinity and high glucose stresses during germination and seedling establishment, and restored altered expression levels of some stress-responsive genes in ttg1-13 seedlings to the wild type level under salinity and glucose stresses. Our results provide information that will be valuable for understanding the function of TTG1 from monocot to dicot species and identifying a promising target for genetic manipulation of foxtail millet to improve the amount of seed metabolites.
Dof (DNA binding with one finger) proteins, which constitute a class of transcription factors found exclusively in plants, are involved in numerous physiological and biochemical reactions affecting growth and development. A genome-wide analysis of SiDof genes was performed in this study. Thirty five SiDof genes were identified and those genes were unevenly distributed across nine chromosomes in the Seteria italica genome. Protein lengths, molecular weights, and theoretical isoelectric points of SiDofs all vary greatly. Gene structure analysis demonstrated that most SiDof genes lack introns. Phylogenetic analysis of SiDof proteins and Dof proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana, rice, sorghum, and Setaria viridis revealed six major groups. Analysis of RNA-Seq data indicated that SiDof gene expression levels varied across roots, stems, leaves, and spike. In addition, expression profiling of SiDof genes in response to stress suggested that SiDof 7 and SiDof 15 are involved in drought stress signalling. Overall, this study could provide novel information on SiDofs for further investigation in foxtail millet.
Comparisons between C We report the assembly of the nuclear and chloroplast genomes of D. oligosanthes, from high-throughput short read sequencing data and a comparative transcriptomics analysis of the developing leaf of D. oligosanthes, S. viridis, and S. bicolor. Physiological and anatomical characterizations verified that D. oligosanthes utilizes the C The phylogenetic location of D. oligosanthes makes it an ideal C
Jasmonic acid (JA) signaling pathway in plants is activated against various developmental processes as well as biotic and abiotic stresses. The Jasmonate ZIM-domain (JAZ) protein family, the key regulator of plant JA signaling pathway, also participates in phytohormone crosstalk. This is the first study revealing the in vivo interactions of finger millet (Eleusine coracana (L.) Gaertn.) JAZ protein (EcJAZ) under methyl jasmonate (MJ) treatment. The aim of the study was to explore not only the JA signaling pathway but also the phytohormone signaling crosstalk of finger millet, a highly important future crop. From the MJ-treated finger millet seedlings, the EcJAZ interacting proteins were purified by affinity chromatography with the EcJAZ-matrix. Twenty-one proteins of varying functionalities were successfully identified by MALDI-TOF-TOF Mass spectrometry. Apart from the previously identified JAZ binding proteins, most prominently, EcJAZ was found to interact with transcription factors like NAC, GATA and also with Cold responsive protein (COR), etc. that might have extended the range of functionalities of JAZ proteins. Moreover, to evaluate the interactions of EcJAZ in the JA-co-receptor complex, we generated ten in-silico models containing the EcJAZ degron and the COI1-SKP1 of five monocot cereals viz., rice, wheat, maize, Sorghum and Setaria with JA-Ile or coronatine. Our results indicated that the EcJAZ protein of finger millet could act as the signaling hub for the JA and other phytohormone signaling pathways, in response to a diverse set of stressors and developmental cues to provide survival fitness to the plant.
Apomixis, asexual reproduction through seed, enables breeders to identify and faithfully propagate superior heterozygous genotypes by seed without the disadvantages of vegetative propagation or the expense and complexity of hybrid seed production. The availability of new tools such as genotyping by sequencing and bioinformatics pipelines for species lacking reference genomes now makes the construction of dense maps possible in apomictic species, despite complications including polyploidy, multisomic inheritance, self-incompatibility, and high levels of heterozygosity. In this study, we developed saturated linkage maps for the maternal and paternal genomes of an interspecific Brachiaria ruziziensis (R. Germ. and C. M. Evrard) × B. decumbens Stapf. F1 mapping population in order to identify markers linked to apomixis. High-resolution molecular karyotyping and comparative genomics with Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv provided conclusive evidence for segmental allopolyploidy in B. decumbens, with strong preferential pairing of homologs across the genome and multisomic segregation relatively more common in chromosome 8. The apospory-specific genomic region (ASGR) was mapped to a region of reduced recombination on B. decumbens chromosome 5. The Pennisetum squamulatum (L.) R.Br. PsASGR-BABY BOOM-like (psASGR-BBML)-specific primer pair p779/p780 was in perfect linkage with the ASGR in the F1 mapping population and diagnostic for reproductive mode in a diversity panel of known sexual and apomict Brachiaria (Trin.) Griseb. and P. maximum Jacq. germplasm accessions and cultivars. These findings indicate that ASGR-BBML gene sequences are highly conserved across the Paniceae and add further support for the postulation of the ASGR-BBML as candidate genes for the apomictic function of parthenogenesis.
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is a diploid C4 panicoid species. Because of its prominent drought resistance, small genome size, self-pollination, and short life cycle, foxtail millet has become an ideal model system for studying drought tolerance of crops. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous, small RNAs that play important regulatory roles in the development and stress response in plants. In this study, we applied Illumina sequencing to systematically investigate the drought-responsive miRNAs derived from S. italica inbred An04-4783 seedlings grown under control and drought conditions. Degradome sequencing was applied to confirm the targets of these miRNAs at a global level. A total of 81 known miRNAs belonging to 28 families were identified, among which 14 miRNAs were upregulated and four were downregulated in response to drought. In addition, 72 potential novel miRNAs were identified, three of which were differentially expressed under drought conditions. Degradome sequencing analysis showed that 56 and 26 genes were identified as targets of known and novel miRNAs, respectively. Our analysis revealed post-transcriptional remodeling of cell development, transcription factors, ABA signaling, and cellar homeostasis in S.italica in response to drought. This preliminary characterization provided useful information for further studies on the regulatory networks of drought-responsive miRNAs in foxtail millet.
Almost all C4 plants require the co-ordination of the adjacent and fully differentiated cell types, mesophyll (M) and bundle sheath (BS). The C4 photosynthetic pathway operates through two distinct subtypes based on how malate is decarboxylated in BS cells; through NAD-malic enzyme (NAD-ME) or NADP-malic enzyme (NADP-ME). The diverse or unique cell-specific molecular features of M and BS cells from separate C4 subtypes of independent lineages remain to be determined. We here provide an M/BS cell type-specific transcriptome data set from the monocot NAD-ME subtype switchgrass (Panicum virgatum). A comparative transcriptomics approach was then applied to compare the M/BS mRNA profiles of switchgrass, monocot NADP-ME subtype C4 plants maize and Setaria viridis, and dicot NAD-ME subtype Cleome gynandra. We evaluated the convergence in the transcript abundance of core components in C4 photosynthesis and transcription factors to establish Kranz anatomy, as well as gene distribution of biological functions, in these four independent C4 lineages. We also estimated the divergence between NAD-ME and NADP-ME subtypes of C4 photosynthesis in the two cell types within C4 species, including differences in genes encoding decarboxylating enzymes, aminotransferases, and metabolite transporters, and differences in the cell-specific functional enrichment of RNA regulation and protein biogenesis/homeostasis. We suggest that C4 plants of independent lineages in both monocots and dicots underwent convergent evolution to establish C4 photosynthesis, while distinct C4 subtypes also underwent divergent processes for the optimization of M and BS cell co-ordination. The comprehensive data sets in our study provide a basis for further research on evolution of C4 species.
A set of novel and known dehydration-responsive miRNAs have been identified in foxtail millet. These findings provide new insights into understanding the functional role of miRNAs and their respective targets in regulating plant response to dehydration stress. MicroRNAs perform significant regulatory roles in growth, development and stress response of plants. Though the miRNA-mediated gene regulatory networks under dehydration stress remain largely unexplored in plant including foxtail millet (Setaria italica), which is a natural abiotic stress tolerant crop. To find out the dehydration-responsive miRNAs at the global level, four small RNA libraries were constructed from control and dehydration stress treated seedlings of two foxtail millet cultivars showing contrasting tolerance behavior towards dehydration stress. Using Illumina sequencing technology, 55 known and 136 novel miRNAs were identified, representing 22 and 48 miRNA families, respectively. Eighteen known and 33 novel miRNAs were differentially expressed during dehydration stress. After the stress treatment, 32 dehydration-responsive miRNAs were up-regulated in tolerant cultivar and 22 miRNAs were down-regulated in sensitive cultivar, suggesting that miRNA-mediated molecular regulation might play important roles in providing contrasting characteristics to these cultivars. Predicted targets of identified miRNAs were found to encode various transcription factors and functional enzymes, indicating their involvement in broad spectrum regulatory functions and biological processes. Further, differential expression patterns of seven known miRNAs were validated by northern blot and expression of ten novel dehydration-responsive miRNAs were confirmed by SL-qRT PCR. Differential expression behavior of five miRNA-target genes was verified under dehydration stress treatment and two of them also validated by RLM RACE. Overall, the present study highlights the importance of dehydration stress-associated post-transcriptional regulation governed by miRNAs and their targets in a naturally stress-tolerant model crop.
Transcription factors (TFs) are major players in stress signaling and constitute an integral part of signaling networks. Among the major TFs, WRKY proteins play pivotal roles in regulation of transcriptional reprogramming associated with stress responses. In view of this, genome- and transcriptome-wide identification of WRKY TF family was performed in the C4model plants, Setaria italica (SiWRKY) and S. viridis (SvWRKY), respectively. The study identified 105 SiWRKY and 44 SvWRKY proteins that were computationally analyzed for their physicochemical properties. Sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis classified these proteins into three major groups, namely I, II, and III with majority of WRKY proteins belonging to group II (53 SiWRKY and 23 SvWRKY), followed by group III (39 SiWRKY and 11 SvWRKY) and group I (10 SiWRKY and 6 SvWRKY). Group II proteins were further classified into 5 subgroups (IIa to IIe) based on their phylogeny. Domain analysis showed the presence of WRKY motif and zinc finger-like structures in these proteins along with additional domains in a few proteins. All SiWRKY genes were physically mapped on the S. italica genome and their duplication analysis revealed that 10 and 8 gene pairs underwent tandem and segmental duplications, respectively. Comparative mapping of SiWRKY and SvWRKY genes in related C4 panicoid genomes demonstrated the orthologous relationships between these genomes. In silico expression analysis of SiWRKY and SvWRKY genes showed their differential expression patterns in different tissues and stress conditions. Expression profiling of candidate SiWRKY genes in response to stress (dehydration and salinity) and hormone treatments (abscisic acid, salicylic acid, and methyl jasmonate) suggested the putative involvement of SiWRKY066 and SiWRKY082 in stress and hormone signaling. These genes could be potential candidates for further characterization to delineate their functional roles in abiotic stress signaling.
Six foxtail millet ASR genes were regulated by various stress-related signals. Overexpression of ASR1 increased drought and oxidative tolerance by controlling ROS homeostasis and regulating oxidation-related genes in tobacco plants. Abscisic acid stress ripening (ASR) proteins with ABA/WDS domains constituted a class of plant-specific transcription factors, playing important roles in plant development, growth and abiotic stress responses. However, only a few ASRs genes have been characterized in crop plants and none was reported so far in foxtail millet (Setaria italic), an important drought-tolerant crop and model bioenergy grain crop. In the present study, we identified six foxtail millet ASR genes. Gene structure, protein alignments and phylogenetic relationships were analyzed. Transcript expression patterns of ASR genes revealed that ASRs might play important roles in stress-related signaling and abiotic stress responses in diverse tissues in foxtail millet. Subcellular localization assays showed that SiASR1 localized in the nucleus. Overexpression of SiASR1 in tobacco remarkably increased tolerance to drought and oxidative stresses, as determined through developmental and physiological analyses of germination rate, root growth, survival rate, relative water content, ion leakage, chlorophyll content and antioxidant enzyme activities. Furthermore, expression of SiASR1 modulated the transcript levels of oxidation-related genes, including NtSOD, NtAPX, NtCAT, NtRbohA and NtRbohB, under drought and oxidative stress conditions. These results provide a foundation for evolutionary and functional characterization of the ASR gene family in foxtail millet.
Employing reference genes to normalize the data generated with quantitative PCR (qPCR) can increase the accuracy and reliability of this method. Previous results have shown that no single housekeeping gene can be universally applied to all experiments. Thus, the identification of a suitable reference gene represents a critical step of any qPCR analysis. Setaria viridis has recently been proposed as a model system for the study of Panicoid grasses, a crop family of major agronomic importance. Therefore, this paper aims to identify suitable S. viridis reference genes that can enhance the analysis of gene expression in this novel model plant. The first aim of this study was the identification of a suitable RNA extraction method that could retrieve a high quality and yield of RNA. After this, two distinct algorithms were used to assess the gene expression of fifteen different candidate genes in eighteen different samples, which were divided into two major datasets, the developmental and the leaf gradient. The best-ranked pair of reference genes from the developmental dataset included genes that encoded a phosphoglucomutase and a folylpolyglutamate synthase; genes that encoded a cullin and the same phosphoglucomutase as above were the most stable genes in the leaf gradient dataset. Additionally, the expression pattern of two target genes, a SvAP3/PI MADS-box transcription factor and the carbon-fixation enzyme PEPC, were assessed to illustrate the reliability of the chosen reference genes. This study has shown that novel reference genes may perform better than traditional housekeeping genes, a phenomenon which has been previously reported. These results illustrate the importance of carefully validating reference gene candidates for each experimental set before employing them as universal standards. Additionally, the robustness of the expression of the target genes may increase the utility of S. viridis as a model for Panicoid grasses.
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is the sixth most important cereal in the world. In particular, the millet-derived active components play important roles in disease prevention. In this study, we found that a peroxidase from foxtail millet bran, named FMBP, displayed profound inhibitory effects on the growth of human colon cancer cells, but not on that of the normal colon epithelial cells. Mechanistic investigations suggested that the selective anti-cancer effects of FMBP were mainly achieved by inducing more accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in colon cancer cells than normal cells. The preferential ROS accumulation in cancer cells by FMBP appears to be partially attributed to the down-regulation of NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) expression, and the reduction of catalase activities and glutathione contents. The increased ROS accumulation is speculated to block the STAT3 signaling pathway, which results in the anti-proliferative effects on colon cancer cells. Therefore, these results suggest that the millet bran-derived peroxidase has a therapeutic potential in the management of colon cancer.
Growth-defence balance is the selective partitioning of resources between biomass accumulation and defence responses. Although it is generally postulated that reallocation of limited carbon pools drives the antagonism between growth and defence, little is known about the mechanisms underlying this regulation. Jasmonates (JAs) are a group of oxylipins that are required for a broad range of responses from defence against insects to reproductive growth. Application of JAs to seedlings also leads to inhibited growth and repression of photosynthesis, suggesting a role for JAs in regulating growth-defence balance. The majority of JA research uses dicot models such as Arabidopsis and tomato, while understanding of JA biology in monocot grasses, which comprise most bioenergy feedstocks, food for human consumption, and animal feed, is limited. Interestingly, JA mutants of grasses exhibit unique phenotypes compared with well-studied dicot models. Gene expression analyses in bioenergy grasses also suggest roles for JA in rhizome development, which has not been demonstrated in Arabidopsis. In this review we summarize current knowledge of JA biology in panicoid grasses-the group that consists of the world's emerging bioenergy grasses such as switchgrass, sugarcane, Miscanthus, and sorghum. We discuss outstanding questions regarding the role of JAs in panicoid grasses, and highlight the importance of utilizing emerging grass models for molecular studies to provide a basis for engineering bioenergy grasses that can maximize biomass accumulation while efficiently defending against stress.
The APETALA2/ethylene-responsive element binding factor (AP2/ERF) family is one of the largest transcription factor (TF) families in plants that includes four major sub-families, namely AP2, DREB (dehydration responsive element binding), ERF (ethylene responsive factors) and RAV (Related to ABI3/VP). AP2/ERFs are known to play significant roles in various plant processes including growth and development and biotic and abiotic stress responses. Considering this, a comprehensive genome-wide study was conducted in foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.). A total of 171 AP2/ERF genes were identified by systematic sequence analysis and were physically mapped onto nine chromosomes. Phylogenetic analysis grouped AP2/ERF genes into six classes (I to VI). Duplication analysis revealed that 12 (∼7%) SiAP2/ERF genes were tandem repeated and 22 (∼13%) were segmentally duplicated. Comparative physical mapping between foxtail millet AP2/ERF genes and its orthologs of sorghum (18 genes), maize (14 genes), rice (9 genes) and Brachypodium (6 genes) showed the evolutionary insights of AP2/ERF gene family and also the decrease in orthology with increase in phylogenetic distance. The evolutionary significance in terms of gene-duplication and divergence was analyzed by estimating synonymous and non-synonymous substitution rates. Expression profiling of candidate AP2/ERF genes against drought, salt and phytohormones revealed insights into their precise and/or overlapping expression patterns which could be responsible for their functional divergence in foxtail millet. The study showed that the genes SiAP2/ERF-069, SiAP2/ERF-103 and SiAP2/ERF-120 may be considered as potential candidate genes for further functional validation as well for utilization in crop improvement programs for stress resistance since these genes were up-regulated under drought and salinity stresses in ABA dependent manner. Altogether the present study provides new insights into evolution, divergence and systematic functional analysis of AP2/ERF gene family at genome level in foxtail millet which may be utilized for improving stress adaptation and tolerance in millets, cereals and bioenergy grasses.
MYB proteins represent one of the largest transcription factor families in plants, playing important roles in diverse developmental and stress-responsive processes. Considering its significance, several genome-wide analyses have been conducted in almost all land plants except foxtail millet. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) is a model crop for investigating systems biology of millets and bioenergy grasses. Further, the crop is also known for its potential abiotic stress-tolerance. In this context, a comprehensive genome-wide survey was conducted and 209 MYB protein-encoding genes were identified in foxtail millet. All 209 S. italica MYB (SiMYB) genes were physically mapped onto nine chromosomes of foxtail millet. Gene duplication study showed that segmental- and tandem-duplication have occurred in genome resulting in expansion of this gene family. The protein domain investigation classified SiMYB proteins into three classes according to number of MYB repeats present. The phylogenetic analysis categorized SiMYBs into ten groups (I-X). SiMYB-based comparative mapping revealed a maximum orthology between foxtail millet and sorghum, followed by maize, rice and Brachypodium. Heat map analysis showed tissue-specific expression pattern of predominant SiMYB genes. Expression profiling of candidate MYB genes against abiotic stresses and hormone treatments using qRT-PCR revealed specific and/or overlapping expression patterns of SiMYBs. Taken together, the present study provides a foundation for evolutionary and functional characterization of MYB TFs in foxtail millet to dissect their functions in response to environmental stimuli.
Transcription factors (TFs) contain DNA-binding domains (DBDs) and regulate gene expression by binding to specific DNA sequences. In addition, there are proteins, called transcription coregulators (TCs), which lack DBDs but can alter gene expression through interaction with TFs or RNA Polymerase II. Therefore, it is interesting to identify and classify the TFs and TCs in a genome. In this study, maize (Zea mays) and foxtail millet (Setaria italica), two important species for the study of C4 photosynthesis and kranz anatomy, were selected. We conducted a comprehensive genome-wide annotation of TFs and TCs in maize B73 and in two strains of foxtail millet, Zhang gu and Yugu1, and classified them into families. To gain additional support for our predictions, we searched for their homologous genes in Arabidopsis or rice and studied their gene expression level using RNA-seq and microarray data. We identified many new TF and TC families in these two species, and described some evolutionary and functional aspects of the 9 new maize TF families. Moreover, we detected many pseudogenes and transposable elements in current databases. In addition, we examined tissue expression preferences of TF and TC families and identified tissue/condition-specific TFs and TCs in maize and millet. Finally, we identified potential C4-related TF and TC genes in maize and millet. Our results significantly expand current TF and TC annotations in maize and millet. We provided supporting evidence for our annotation from genomic and gene expression data and identified TF and TC genes with tissue preference in expression. Our study may facilitate the study of regulation of gene expression, tissue morphogenesis, and C4 photosynthesis in maize and millet. The data we generated in this study are available at http://sites.google.com/site/jjlmmtf.
The DREB (dehydration-responsive element binding)-type transcription factors regulate the expression of stress-inducible genes by binding the DRE/CRT cis-elements in promoter regions. The upstream transcription factors that regulate the transcription of DREB transcription factors have not been clearly defined, although the function of DREB transcription factors in abiotic stress is known. In this study, an abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive DREB-binding protein gene (SiARDP) was cloned from foxtail millet (Setaria italica). The transcript level of SiARDP increased not only after drought, high salt, and low temperature stresses, but also after an ABA treatment in foxtail millet seedlings. Two ABA-responsive elements (ABRE1: ACGTGTC; ABRE2: ACGTGGC) exist in the promoter of SiARDP. Further analyses showed that two ABA-responsive element binding (AREB)-type transcription factors, SiAREB1 and SiAREB2, could physically bind to the ABRE core element in vitro and in vivo. The constitutive expression of SiARDP in Arabidopsis thaliana enhanced drought and salt tolerance during seed germination and seedling development, and overexpression of SiARDP in foxtail millet improved drought tolerance. The expression levels of target genes of SiARDP were upregulated in transgenic Arabidopsis and foxtail millet. These results reveal that SiARDP, one of the target genes of SiAREB, is involved in ABA-dependent signal pathways and plays a critical role in the abiotic stress response in plants.
Foxtail millet has recently been regarded as a model crop for studying the systems biology of millets and bioenergy grass species. For expediting the functional genomic studies in this model crop as well as in the related millets and bioenergy grasses, we have developed a comprehensive transcription factor database. Our foxtail millet transcription factors database (FmTFDb: http://59.163.192.91/FmTFDb/index.html ) encompasses 2,297 putative TFs in 55 families along with its sequence features, chromosomal locations, tissue-specific gene expression data, gene ontology (GO) assignment, and phylogeny. FmTFDb is intended to provide the users an unrestricted public access in retrieving and visualizing the individual members of a TF family through a set of query interfaces and analysis tools, including the BLAST search, annotation query interfaces, and tools to identify enriched GO terms and to visualize physical maps. This FmTFDb will serve as a promising central resource for researchers as well as breeders who are dedicated towards crop improvement of millets and bioenergy grasses.
Heat stress transcription factors (Hsfs) regulate gene expression in response to heat and many other environmental stresses in plants. Understanding the adaptive evolution of Hsf genes in the grass family will provide potentially useful information for the genetic improvement of modern crops to handle increasing global temperatures. In this work, we performed a genome-wide survey of Hsf genes in 5 grass species, including rice, maize, sorghum, Setaria, and Brachypodium, by describing their phylogenetic relationships, adaptive evolution, and expression patterns under abiotic stresses. The Hsf genes in grasses were divided into 24 orthologous gene clusters (OGCs) based on phylogeneitc relationship and synteny, suggesting that 24 Hsf genes were present in the ancestral grass genome. However, 9 duplication and 4 gene-loss events were identified in the tested genomes. A maximum-likelihood analysis revealed the effects of positive selection in the evolution of 11 OGCs and suggested that OGCs with duplicated or lost genes were more readily influenced by positive selection than other OGCs. Further investigation revealed that positive selection acted on only one of the duplicated genes in 8 of 9 paralogous pairs, suggesting that neofunctionalization contributed to the evolution of these duplicated pairs. We also investigated the expression patterns of rice and maize Hsf genes under heat, salt, drought, and cold stresses. The results revealed divergent expression patterns between the duplicated genes. This study demonstrates that neofunctionalization by changes in expression pattern and function following gene duplication has been an important factor in the maintenance and divergence of grass Hsf genes.
Remorin proteins (REMs) form a plant-specific protein family, with some REMs being responsive to abiotic stress. However, the precise functions of REMs in abiotic stress tolerance are not clear. In this study, we identified 11 remorin genes from foxtail millet (Setaria italica) and cloned a remorin gene, SiREM6, for further investigation. The transcript level of SiREM6 was increased by high salt stress, low temperature stress and abscisic acid (ABA) treatment, but not by drought stress. The potential oligomerization of SiREM6 was examined by negative staining electron microscopy. The overexpression of SiREM6 improved high salt stress tolerance in transgenic Arabidopsis at the germination and seedling stages as revealed by germination rate, survival rate, relative electrolyte leakage and proline content. The SiREM6 promoter contains two dehydration responsive elements (DRE) and one ABA responsive element (ABRE). An ABA responsive DRE-binding transcription factor, SiARDP, and an ABRE-binding transcription factor, SiAREB1, were cloned from foxtail millet. SiARDP could physically bind to the DREs, but SiAREB1 could not. These results revealed that SiREM6 is a target gene of SiARDP and plays a critical role in high salt stress tolerance.
C2H2 type of zinc finger transcription factors (TFs) play crucial roles in plant stress response and hormone signal transduction. Hence considering its importance, genome-wide investigation and characterization of C2H2 zinc finger proteins were performed in Arabidopsis, rice and poplar but no such study was conducted in foxtail millet which is a C4 Panicoid model crop well known for its abiotic stress tolerance. The present study identified 124 C2H2-type zinc finger TFs in foxtail millet (SiC2H2) and physically mapped them onto the genome. The gene duplication analysis revealed that SiC2H2s primarily expanded in the genome through tandem duplication. The phylogenetic tree classified these TFs into five groups (I-V). Further, miRNAs targeting SiC2H2 transcripts in foxtail millet were identified. Heat map demonstrated differential and tissue-specific expression patterns of these SiC2H2 genes. Comparative physical mapping between foxtail millet SiC2H2 genes and its orthologs of sorghum, maize and rice revealed the evolutionary relationships of C2H2 type of zinc finger TFs. The duplication and divergence data provided novel insight into the evolutionary aspects of these TFs in foxtail millet and related grass species. Expression profiling of candidate SiC2H2 genes in response to salinity, dehydration and cold stress showed differential expression pattern of these genes at different time points of stresses.
Leaves of almost all C4 lineages separate the reactions of photosynthesis into the mesophyll (M) and bundle sheath (BS). The extent to which messenger RNA profiles of M and BS cells from independent C4 lineages resemble each other is not known. To address this, we conducted deep sequencing of RNA isolated from the M and BS of Setaria viridis and compared these data with publicly available information from maize (Zea mays). This revealed a high correlation (r=0.89) between the relative abundance of transcripts encoding proteins of the core C4 pathway in M and BS cells in these species, indicating significant convergence in transcript accumulation in these evolutionarily independent C4 lineages. We also found that the vast majority of genes encoding proteins of the C4 cycle in S. viridis are syntenic to homologs used by maize. In both lineages, 122 and 212 homologous transcription factors were preferentially expressed in the M and BS, respectively. Sixteen shared regulators of chloroplast biogenesis were identified, 14 of which were syntenic homologs in maize and S. viridis. In sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), a third C4 grass, we found that 82% of these trans-factors were also differentially expressed in either M or BS cells. Taken together, these data provide, to our knowledge, the first quantification of convergence in transcript abundance in the M and BS cells from independent lineages of C4 grasses. Furthermore, the repeated recruitment of syntenic homologs from large gene families strongly implies that parallel evolution of both structural genes and trans-factors underpins the polyphyletic evolution of this highly complex trait in the monocotyledons.
The NAC proteins represent a major plant-specific transcription factor family that has established enormously diverse roles in various plant processes. Aided by the availability of complete genomes, several members of this family have been identified in Arabidopsis, rice, soybean and poplar. However, no comprehensive investigation has been presented for the recently sequenced, naturally stress tolerant crop, Setaria italica (foxtail millet) that is famed as a model crop for bioenergy research. In this study, we identified 147 putative NAC domain-encoding genes from foxtail millet by systematic sequence analysis and physically mapped them onto nine chromosomes. Genomic organization suggested that inter-chromosomal duplications may have been responsible for expansion of this gene family in foxtail millet. Phylogenetically, they were arranged into 11 distinct sub-families (I-XI), with duplicated genes fitting into one cluster and possessing conserved motif compositions. Comparative mapping with other grass species revealed some orthologous relationships and chromosomal rearrangements including duplication, inversion and deletion of genes. The evolutionary significance as duplication and divergence of NAC genes based on their amino acid substitution rates was understood. Expression profiling against various stresses and phytohormones provides novel insights into specific and/or overlapping expression patterns of SiNAC genes, which may be responsible for functional divergence among individual members in this crop. Further, we performed structure modeling and molecular simulation of a stress-responsive protein, SiNAC128, proffering an initial framework for understanding its molecular function. Taken together, this genome-wide identification and expression profiling unlocks new avenues for systematic functional analysis of novel NAC gene family candidates which may be applied for improvising stress adaption in plants.
A differentially expressed transcript, encoding a putative WD protein (Setaria italica WD40; SiWD40), was identified in foxtail millet. Tertiary structure modeling revealed that its C-terminus possesses eight blade β-propeller architecture. Its N-terminal has three α-helices and two 3(10)-helices and was highly induced by different abiotic stresses. The SiWD40:GFP fusion protein was nuclear localized. Promoter analysis showed the presence of many cis-acting elements, including two dehydration responsive elements (DRE). A stress-responsive SiAP2 domain containing protein could specifically bind to these elements in the SiWD40 promoter. Thus, for the first time, we report that DREs probably regulate expression of SiWD40 during environmental stress. Molecular docking analysis revealed that the circumference of the β-propeller structure was involved in an interaction with a SiCullin4 protein, supporting the adaptability of SiWD40 to act as a scaffold. Our study thus provides a vital clue for near future research on the stress-regulation of WD proteins.
The NAC (NAM/ATAF1,2/CUC2) proteins are among the largest family of plant transcription factors. Its members have been associated with diverse plant processes and intricately regulate the expression of several genes. Inspite of this immense progress, knowledge of their DNA-binding properties are still limited. In our recent publication,1 we reported isolation of a membrane-associated NAC domain protein from Setaria italica (SiNAC). Transactivation analysis revealed that it was a functionally active transcription factor as it could stimulate expression of reporter genes in vivo. Truncations of the transmembrane region of the protein lead to its nuclear localization. Here we describe expression and purification of SiNAC DNA-binding domain. We further report identification of a novel DNA-binding site, [C/G][A/T][T/A][G/C]TC[C/G][A/T][C/G][G/C] for SiNAC by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. The SiNAC-GST protein could bind to the NAC recognition sequence in vitro as well as to sequences where some bases had been reshuffled. The results presented here contribute to our understanding of the DNA-binding specificity of SiNAC protein.
The dietary intake of whole grains is known to reduce the incidence of chronic diseases such as obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and cancer. To investigate whether there are anti-adipogenic activities in various Korean cereals, we assessed water extracts of nine cereals. The results showed that treatment of 3T3-L1 adipocytes with Sorghum bicolor L. Moench, Setaria italica Beauvois, or Panicum miliaceum L. extract significantly inhibited adipocyte differentiation, as determined by measuring oil red-O staining, triglyceride accumulation, and glycerol 3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity. Among the nine cereals, P. miliaceum L. showed the highest anti-adipogenic activity. The effects of P. miliaceum L. on mRNA expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1, and the CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-α were evaluated, revealing that the extract significantly decreased the expression of these genes in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, P. miliaceum L. extract changed the ratio of monounsaturated fatty acids to saturated fatty acids in adipocytes, which is related to biological activity and cell characteristics. These results suggest that some cereals efficiently suppress adipogenesis in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. In particular, the effect of P. miliaceum L. on adipocyte differentiation is associated with the downregulation of adipogenic genes and fatty acid accumulation in adipocytes.
The DREB genes code for important plant transcription factors involved in the abiotic stress response and signal transduction. Characterization of DREB genes and development of functional markers for effective alleles is important for marker-assisted selection in foxtail millet. Here the characterization of a cDNA (SiDREB2) encoding a putative dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2 from foxtail millet and the development of an allele-specific marker (ASM) for dehydration tolerance is reported. A cDNA clone (GenBank accession no. GT090998) coding for a putative DREB2 protein was isolated as a differentially expressed gene from a 6 h dehydration stress SSH library. A 5' RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA ends) was carried out to obtain the full-length cDNA, and sequence analysis showed that SiDREB2 encoded a polypeptide of 234 amino acids with a predicted mol. wt of 25.72 kDa and a theoretical pI of 5.14. A theoretical model of the tertiary structure shows that it has a highly conserved GCC-box-binding N-terminal domain, and an acidic C-terminus that acts as an activation domain for transcription. Based on its similarity to AP2 domains, SiDREB2 was classified into the A-2 subgroup of the DREB subfamily. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis showed significant up-regulation of SiDREB2 by dehydration (polyethylene glycol) and salinity (NaCl), while its expression was less affected by other stresses. A synonymous single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) associated with dehydration tolerance was detected at the 558th base pair (an A/G transition) in the SiDREB2 gene in a core set of 45 foxtail millet accessions used. Based on the identified SNP, three primers were designed to develop an ASM for dehydration tolerance. The ASM produced a 261 bp fragment in all the tolerant accessions and produced no amplification in the sensitive accessions. The use of this ASM might be faster, cheaper, and more reproducible than other SNP genotyping methods, and thus will enable marker-aided breeding of foxtail millet for dehydration tolerance.
The plant-specific NAC (NAM, ATAF, and CUC) transcription factors have diverse role in development and stress regulation. A transcript encoding NAC protein, termed SiNAC was identified from a salt stress subtractive cDNA library of S. italica seedling (Puranik et al., J Plant Physiol 168:280-287, 2011). This single/low copy gene containing four exons and four introns within the genomic-sequence encoded a protein of 462 amino acids. Structural analysis revealed that highly divergent C terminus contains a transmembrane domain. The NAC domain consisted of a twisted antiparallel beta-sheet packing against N terminal alpha helix on one side and a shorter helix on the other side. The domain was predicted to homodimerize and control DNA-binding specificity. The physicochemical features of the SiNAC homodimer interface justified the dimeric form of the predicted model. A 1539 bp fragment upstream to the start codon of SiNAC gene was cloned and in silico analysis revealed several putative cis-acting regulatory elements within the promoter sequence. Transactivation analysis indicated that SiNAC activated expression of reporter gene and the activation domain lied at the C terminal. The SiNAC:GFP was detected in the nucleus and cytoplasm while SiNAC ΔC(1-158):GFP was nuclear localized in onion epidermal cells. SiNAC transcripts mostly accumulated in young spikes and were strongly induced by dehydration, salinity, ethephon, and methyl jasmonate. These results suggest that SiNAC encodes a membrane associated NAC-domain protein that may function as a transcriptional activator in response to stress and developmental regulation in plants.
Soil salinity represents a major abiotic stress that adversely affects crop growth and productivity. In this study, 21-day-old seedlings of two foxtail millet (Setaria italica) cultivars differing in salt tolerance were found to also differ in lipid peroxidation, ion balance and activity of antioxidative enzymes (glutathione reductase and catalase) under short-term salinity stress (250 mM NaCl for 1-48 h). With the aim of better understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying plant responses to short-term salinity stress, two suppression subtractive hybridization cDNA libraries (forward and reverse) were constructed of these cultivars. A total of 249 non-redundant ESTs was identified by random EST sequencing and grouped into 11 functional categories. Macroarray analysis of these clones showed that 159 (63.9%) were differentially expressed (≥ 2-fold) in response to salinity stress, with 115 (72.3%) up and 44 (27.7%) down-regulated. A data search of transcriptional profiling under salinity stress in other species revealed that 81 (51%) of the 159 differentially expressed transcripts found in foxtail millet have not been reported in previous studies. Hence, these new transcripts may represent untapped gene sources allowing specific responses to short-term salt-stress in an orphan crop known to possess a natural adaptation capacity to abiotic stress. Quantitative real-time PCR of 21 highly up-regulated (≥ 2.5-fold) transcripts showed temporal variation in expression in both cultivars under salinity. Among them, several transcription factors and signalling genes were preferentially expressed in the tolerant cultivar. These results suggest that the tolerant cultivar possesses more effective signal-perception mechanisms for metabolic adjustments in plants under harsh saline conditions. Our findings provide evidence that the unknown genes identified in this study, in addition to several known genes, may play important roles in stress tolerance mechanisms present in foxtail millet.
A SiPf40 gene was identified from an immature seed cDNA library of foxtail millet (Setaria italica). This gene encodes for a 29.4 KDa protein containing eight potential transmembrane domains and a highly conserved ZIP signature motif typical of ZIPs (zinc or iron transporter proteins) family. Other SiPf40 potential homologous genes have also been identified in rice, maize, wheat and Arabidopsis by Southern analysis. Expression data showed that this gene is preferentially expressed in millet hypocotyl and bud; however, a minimal level of constitutive expression could be detected in other foxtail millet tissues. Overexpression of SiPf40 gene causes extra branches in tobacco and extra tillering in millet associated with vessel enlarging and xylary fibers increasing, whereas the tiller number decreases in SiPf40 gene silenced plants. Moreover, IAA content decreased significantly in shoot apex of the transgenic tobacco overexpressing SiPf40 gene. All together, these morphological alterations indicate that SiPf40 gene is essential for lateral shoots growth.
Grass species differ in many aspects of inflorescence architecture, but in most cases the genetic basis of the morphological difference is unknown. To investigate the genes underlying the morphology in one such instance, we undertook a developmental and QTL analysis of inflorescence differences between the cereal grain foxtail millet and its presumed progenitor green millet. Inflorescence differences between these two species are the result of changes in primary branch number and density, spikelet number, and bristle (sterile branchlet) number; these differences also account for inflorescence variation within the clade of 300+ species that share the presence of bristles in the inflorescence. Fourteen replicated QTL were detected for the four inflorescence traits, and these are suggested to represent genes that control differences between the species. Comparative mapping using common markers from rice and maize allowed a number of candidate genes from maize to be localized to QTL regions in the millet genome. Searches of regions of the sequenced rice genome orthologous to QTL regions on foxtail millet identified a number of transcription factors and hormone pathway genes that may be involved in control of inflorescence branching.
Glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase (GDPD) catalyzes the hydrolysis of glycerophosphodiesters into sn-glycerol-3-phosphate (G-3-P) and corresponding alcohols, which is integral to various physiological processes in plants. However, our comprehension of the
Soil salinization and alkalization are becoming increasingly severe in recent decades, which poses serious threats to crop production and food security in the world. Foxtail millet (
Sugar will eventually be exported transporters (SWEETs), an original family of sugar transporters that facilitate the cell membrane flux traversing and govern long-distance sugar distribution throughout plant development. SWEETs playvital roles in various developmental processes including phloem loading, pollen nutrition, seed filling, and pathogen nutrition. Although the SWEET family has been systematically reported in different organisms, research on foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) has not been reported. In this study, 24 SiSWEETs were identified in the foxtail millet genome using bioinformatics analysis and were divided into four groups. Chromosome mapping showed that SiSWEETs were distributed on seven chromosomes, the size of the encoded amino acids ranged between 231 and 320, the SiSWEETs all contained the Sugar_tr (PF03083) conserved domain, and five conserved motifs were identified. Cis-acting elements in the SiSWEET promoter region showed light-response elements in all genes, and most genes were hormone- and stress-response elements. Expression profile analysis demonstrated that SiSWEET13a had considerably high leaf top 2-3 expression after heading, and responded to exogenous sucrose. Subcellular localization analysis revealed that SiSWEET13a was localized to the plasma membrane. SiSWEET13a overexpression promoted growth and decreased the starch and sugar contents of leaves in transgenic A. thaliana, and the starch accumulation phenotype was partially complemented by SiSWEET13a overexpression in the double mutant. Y2H and BiFC assays demonstrated that SiSWEET13a interacts with G protein receptors (GPR107) and aquaporin (PIP1). These findings provide a comprehensive characterization of SWEET genes in Setaria italica and offer insights into the biological functions of SiSWEET13a in plant growth and development.
PYL (pyrabactin resistance-like) functions not only as a receptor but also as a crucial component in the ABA signaling pathway. Nevertheless, the functions of the SiPYL genes in foxtail millet remain largely unexplored. In this study, a comprehensive bioinformatics-based analysis of the PYL gene family in foxtail millet was conducted across the whole genome. As a result, ten SiPYL genes were identified and subsequently classified into three groups. Additionally, an in-depth investigation was carried out on the gene structure, conserved motifs, chromosomal localization, cis-acting elements, collinearity, and expression patterns of these SiPYL genes. The expression profiles of SiPYL family members under drought, salt, and ABA treatments suggested that they might adopt distinct strategies in response to adverse environmental conditions. Based on the qRT-PCR results, we found that the transcript levels of SiPYL3 were significantly upregulated under various abiotic stress conditions. Functional verification demonstrated that SiPYL3 might play a role in weakening drought resistance while positively modulating salt tolerance during the seedling stage. Furthermore, the overexpression of SiPYL3 leads to an increase in both the grain number and grain weight in rice. The outcomes of haplotype analysis indicated that SiPYL3
In order to clarify the regulation mechanism of selenium (Se) on foxtail millet quality formation and metabolism, the effects of different Se fertilizers (no application of S1, optimal for Se S2, high Se S3) on yield, quality, and metabolic characteristics of Jingu 21 and Jingu 40 (Se-rich varieties) were studied. The results showed that S2 treated foxtail millet yield was the highest, the content of fat and starch in Jingu 21 increased, the content of protein decreased, the content of protein in Jingu 40 increased, and the content of starch and fiber decreased. S3 treatment reduced the content of fat and fiber and increased the content of starch. The peak viscosity and breakdown value of Jingu 21 decreased under S2 treatment. Metabolomics analysis revealed that S2 promoted flavonoid accumulation (Taxifolin, Epicatechin, etc.) and inhibition of L-histidine expression in Jingu 21 by regulating flavonoid and histidine metabolism pathways, leading to reduced protein content, increased fat and starch content, and lower peak viscosity and breakdown value, thereby affecting foxtail millet quality formation. S2 treatment activated the stilbenoid, diarylheptanoid, and gingerol biosynthesis pathways of Jingu40, reducing the synthesis of demethoxycurcumin and chlorogenic acid, increasing protein content and decreasing fat content. S3 treatment activated the tyrosine metabolism pathway of Jingu40, up-regulated L-tyrosine and gentisic acid expression, which increased protein content and decreased fat content, thus affecting foxtail millet quality. This study provides a theoretical basis for the safe use of foxtail millet Se fertilizer, high-quality cultivation, and the development of Se-enriched functional foods.
Leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinases (LRR-RLKs) are involved in the regulation of various biological processes, including plant growth, development, and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. Foxtail millet (
The molecular mechanism of cleistogamy in foxtail millet was analyzed. We found that changes of cell wall components caused the abnormal development of the lodicule. Outcrossing between cultivated crops and their associated wild species may result in the loss of favorable agricultural traits in the progeny or the drift of genetically modified (GM) organisms in future generations. In this study, we found a cleistogamy mutant with an abnormal development of the lodicules. The lodicules were sampled when the florets just to bloom for RNA-seq analysis. Our results showed that, compared with the wild type, the mutant had more enriched pathways related to cell wall synthesis or decomposition. Staining of the lodicule cell wall showed that the mutant had relatively lower amounts of callose and cellulose than the wild type. The content of pectin methylation in the lodicule cell wall of the mutant was lower than that of the wild type. In summary, we analyzed the causes of cleistogamy phenotype in foxtail millet. Transcriptome data analysis revealed that this was probably caused by dysplasia of the lodicule cell wall. Cytochemical staining and immunofluorescence tests showed that the changes of the components in the cell wall caused the abnormal development of the lodicule. Overall, this study sheds light on the potential molecular mechanism of cleistogamy of foxtail millet and provides a theoretical basis for subsequent research.
Dehydration response element binding proteins (DREBs) play a vital role in transcriptional regulators in enhancing plant tolerance to abiotic stress. To investigate the biological functions of the DREB gene family (
Plants employ peptide ligands to coordinate development and integrate environmental signals via dedicated cascades (#ref-0013). Epidermal patterning factor (EPF), plays a significant role in regulating stomatal density, seed germination and panicle development (#ref-0008). EPF/EPFL enhance drought tolerance by reducing stomatal density have been reported in multiple species, including Hordeum vulgare, Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus spp., Vitis vinifera, Sorghum bicolor and Brassica napus (#ref-0001). Our previous study has shown that EPF can mediate drought resistance in foxtail millet by regulating stomatal density (#ref-0004). Furthermore, evidence suggests that plants can regulate photosynthesis through stomatal modification, ultimately enhancing yield (#ref-0005). Beyond stomatal density regulation, the EPF/EPFL gene family modulates seed germination through phytohormone signalling and regulates inflorescence development via ligand-receptor interactions (#ref-0007). OsEPFLs act as upstream ligands for the OsER1 receptor, activating the MAPK signalling cascade to regulate panicle morphogenesis (#ref-0002). In this study, we sought to elucidate how SiEPF2 balances drought resistance and yield in foxtail millet by modulating stomatal density and panicle morphology. Our findings not only provide novel insights into SiEPF2's role in abiotic stress responses but also contribute valuable genetic resources for high-yield breeding programmes in millet crops.
Foxtail millet ( The study combines advanced bioinformatics and experimental validation. It uses phylogenetic, motif, domain, synteny analyses, miRNA prediction, and quantitative expression profiling under stress. Phylogenetic analysis reveals new sub-clades and trajectories. Motif and domain analyses find new conserved elements. Statistical models show unique selective forces. Synteny analysis identifies genomic architecture and new blocks. miRNA prediction reveals gene-miRNA interactions, and expression profiling shows new patterns. The research offers new insights into the BRX family's role in foxtail millet's growth and stress responses, laying a foundation for crop genetic improvement and enhancing stress resilience for global food security.
Kernel color is an important characteristic of foxtail millet (Setaria italica) associated with its market ability, quality, and nutritional value, which is mainly due to the accumulation of carotenoids. Despite its importance, the genetic basis of carotenoid variation in foxtail millet remains largely unexplored. Herein, the molecular mechanisms governing carotenoid accumulation in the kernel of foxtail millet were investigated by an exhaustive methodology encompassing Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS), Bulk Segregant Analysis sequencing (BSA-seq), and integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses. The total carotenoid content in kernels across 201 foxtail millet germplasms showed a spectrum of variations, which indicated that the kernel color is a quantitative genetic trait controlled by multiple genes. Using GWAS on these germplasms and BSA-seq on an F These findings provide crucial genetic insights for the molecular mechanisms involved in carotenoid metabolism and lay a solid foundation for millet color breeding in foxtail millet.
Dehydration response element binding factors (DREBs) are a family of plant-specific transcription factors that regulate plant responses. In this study, members of the SiDREB gene family were identified and analyzed in terms of their physicochemical properties, phylogeny, and structure of the encoded proteins. The expression patterns of the DREB transcription factors in foxtail millet under stress were analysed by combining the qRT-PCR data for foxtail millet after exposure to low temperature, abscisic acid (ABA), and osmotic stress (20% PEG 6000). There were 56 SiDREB genes, which were divided into six subgroups, that were located on nine chromosomes of foxtail millet. Chromosomal localization showed that the SiDREB genes were unevenly distributed across nine foxtail millet chromosomes. Furthermore, qRT‒PCR experiments revealed that 19 SiDREB genes play a role in the response to abiotic stress and ABA. The results of this study lay a foundation for further research on the functions of the DREB genes in foxtail millet and will be beneficial foe the genetic improvement of this species.
Hexokinases (HXKs) in plants are multifunctional enzymes that not only phosphorylate hexose but also function as glucose sensors, integrating nutrient, light, and hormone signaling networks to regulate cell metabolism and signaling pathways, thereby controlling growth and development in response to environmental changes. To date, limited information is available regarding the
Edenia gomezpompae, an endophytic fungus derived from plants, produced a diverse array of preussomerins, a type of spirobisnaphthalenes featuring two spiroketal groups, which exhibited significant antibacterial, antifungal, and cytotoxic activities. Structurally, the biosynthesis of preussomerins might be related to the biosynthesis of 1,8-dihydroxynaphthalene (DHN), a precursor of DHN-melanin. However, the absence of efficient gene-editing tools for E. gomezpompae has hindered the biosynthetic study of preussomerins. In this study, we developed a CRISPR/Cas9-based gene editing system for E. gomezpompae SV2 that was isolated from the stem of Setaria viridis, by utilizing the endogenous U6 snRNA promoter to drive sgRNA expression. Using this system, we successfully disrupted the polyketide synthase (PKS)-encoding gene, Egpks, a putative 1,3,6,8-tetrahydroxynaphthalene synthase gene involved in the biosynthesis of DHN-melanin, with an editing efficiency up to 92% and a knockout efficiency of 71% when employing the U6 snRNA-3 promoter. Furthermore, the disrupted mutant (∆Egpks) displayed white hyphae and lost the ability to produce preussomerins. These results provided a foundational tool for genetic manipulation in E. gomezpompae and revealed the role of EgPKS in the biosynthesis of preussomerin-type spirobisnaphthalenes.
Apart from directly affecting the growth and development of crops, Cd in the soil can easily enter the human body through the food chain and pose a threat to human health. Therefore, understanding the toxicity of Cd to specific crops and the molecular mechanisms of their response to Cd is essential. In this study, hydroponic experiments were utilized to study the response of foxtail millet to Cd stress through phenotypic investigation, enzyme activity determination, ultrastructure, ionome, transcriptome and metabolome. With the increase in cadmium concentration, both the growth and photosynthetic capacity of foxtail millet seedlings are severely inhibited. The ultrastructure of cells is damaged, cells are deformed, chloroplasts swell and disappear, and cell walls thicken. Cd stress affects the absorption, transport, and redistribution of beneficial metal ions in the seedlings. Multi-omics analysis reveals the crucial roles of glycolysis, glutathione metabolism and phenylpropanoid and lignin biosynthesis pathways in Cd detoxification via energy metabolism, the antioxidant system and cell wall changes. Finally, a schematic diagram of foxtail millet in response to Cd stress was we preliminarily drew. This work provides a basic framework for further revealing the molecular mechanism of Cd tolerance in foxtail millet.
Wild and weedy relatives of domesticated plants contain genetic variants that can be beneficial for crop improvement through agricultural biotechnology. Through comparisons of the responses of wild ancestors and cultivars to abiotic stress, important information for targeted plant breeding can be obtained. Here, wild ancestral green foxtail (GWC) and two foxtail millet cultivars (landrace Qitoubai, QG, and modern cultivar Jingu21, G21) were selected to detect different responses to drought stress at the 6-leaf stage. The results showed that drought resulted in the largest decrease in biomass in the G21 (57.3%) compared with 53.2% and 32.5% in QG and GWC, respectively. The cultivar G21 exhibited the highest whole plant transpiration and root exudation index under drought conditions, followed by QG and then GWC. Under drought stress, abscisic acid (ABA) content was the highest in GWC followed by QG and G21. Two genes involved in the ABA pathway were downregulated in G21 plants, but not in GWC and QG plants under drought stress. The expression of the β-amylase and SWEET gene was upregulated by drought stress in landrace and green foxtail, whereas the expression was less affected in the modern cultivar, which could contribute to a higher non-structural carbon content. Overexpression of β-amylase in Arabidopsis thaliana (OE) increased OE plant biomass significantly, showing that β-amylase could be involved in adapting to drought in foxtail. Taking together, the smaller increase in drought-induced ABA content and decreased ABA response induced high leaf transpiration, which provided a strong transpiration pull, increasing root water uptake and root absorption capacity, thereby resulting in low soil water content in G21. The higher non-structural carbon content provided more osmotic regulatory substances, helping to maintain water status in leaves of GWC. These data can be used to inform future plant breeding efforts aimed at further improving drought resistance in important grain crops.
Soil salinity is a significant abiotic factor affecting crop yield and global distribution, hence selecting salt-tolerant crop species is crucial for food security. Foxtail millet is a resilient crop suitable for hilly, salinity, and drought-prone areas due to its ability to withstand environmental stressors. In this study, foxtail millet was subjected to high NaCl concentrations (150 mM and 200 mM) and selenium (1 μM, 5 μM, and 10 μM) as a stress mitigator. Increased salinity in foxtail plants hampered the growth with decreased pigment levels, increased H₂O₂ levels (153.6%), lipid peroxidation (32.1%), and electrolyte leakage (155.5%). The application of 1 μM Se positively influenced the root-to-shoot ratio (R) (59.2%), photosynthetic pigments, phenolic content (25.1%), flavonoid content (7%) and hence the antioxidant potential of the salt stressed plants there by decreasing the H₂O₂ levels (26.8%) and suggesting a greater ability to scavenge radicals. Both NaCl and Se induced the AsA-GSH pathway. Se supplementation significantly improved AsA-GSH pathway components such as AsA/DHA (40.8%) and GSH/GSSG ratios (39.6%) in salt-stressed foxtail millet, reducing oxidative stress and efficiently neutralizing H₂O₂. Gene expression validation confirmed that SiAPX, SiDHAR, SiMDHAR, and SiGR showed significant upregulation with 1 μM Se application in salt-stressed foxtail millet plants. However, higher Se concentrations (5 μM and 10 μM) led to a reduced fresh weight along with R, increased the MDA and H₂O₂ levels, and did not positively contribute to osmolyte accumulation or improve the AsA/DHA and GSH/GSSG ratios. Elevated Se levels also led to a decreased antioxidant potential. Among the enzymes of the AsA-GSH cycle, higher Se concentrations negatively affected APX, DHAR, MDHAR, and GR activities, indicating stress aggravation rather than mitigation at elevated doses.
Conserved non-coding sequences (CNS) are islands of non-coding sequences conserved across species and play an important role in regulating the spatiotemporal expression of genes. Identification of CNS provides valuable information about potentially functional genomic elements, regulatory regions, and helps to gain insights into the genetic basis of crop agronomic traits. Here, we comprehensively analyze CNS in maize, by comparing the genomes of maize inbred line B73 (Zea mays ssp. mays), its close wild relative Zea mays spp. mexicana, and other grasses in Poaceae, including sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), foxtail millet (Setaria italica) and two adlay (Coix lacryma) cultivars. There were 289,931 CNS found in two syntenic gene pairs, while 51,701 CNS were conserved within at least three species. To explore the regulatory characteristics of the CNS identified, the flanking regions of CNS were compared with the peaks called using both transposase-accessible chromatin with high-throughput sequencing (ATAC-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation with high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-Seq) data of histone modifications. It was found that CNS in maize were enriched in open chromatin regions compared with randomly selected non-coding regions of similar length. A significant enrichment of transcription factor binding sites was found within CNS sequences, including different transcription factors involved in abiotic stress response, such as OBP (OBF-BINDING PROTEIN) family and Adof1 (Encodes dof zinc finger protein). To investigate the epigenetic modification patterns in CNS, ChIP-Seq data for histone modifications H3K9ac, H3K4me3, H3K36me3, H3K9me3, and H3K27ac were further analyzed to depict the changes along CNS. Our findings revealed significantly elevated levels of transcription-promoting histone modifications in the CNS regions compared to randomly selected non-coding sequences with an equal number and similar length. Notably, CNS were also identified on both Vgt1 (Vegetative to generative transition 1) and ZmCCT10. In addition, CNS with potential functions were identified based on SNPs within CNS significantly associated with various agronomic traits in maize, which holds potential utility in molecular breeding for maize. In summary, we identified and characterized CNS in maize through genomic comparative analysis, which provides valuable insights into their potential regulatory effects on gene expression and phenotypic variation.
Repetitive DNA contributes significantly to plant genome size, adaptation, and evolution. However, little is understood about the transcription of repeats. This is addressed here in the plant green foxtail millet (Setaria viridis). First, we used RepeatExplorer2 to calculate the genome proportion (GP) of all repeat types and compared the GP of long terminal repeat (LTR) retroelements against annotated complete and incomplete LTR retroelements (Ty1/copia and Ty3/gypsy) identified by DANTE in a whole genome assembly. We show that DANTE-identified LTR retroelements can comprise ∼0.75% of the inflorescence poly-A transcriptome and ∼0.24% of the stem ribo-depleted transcriptome. In the RNA libraries from inflorescence tissue, both LTR retroelements and DNA transposons identified by RepeatExplorer2 were highly abundant, where they may be taking advantage of the reduced epigenetic silencing in the germ line to amplify. Typically, there was a higher representation of DANTE-identified LTR retroelements in the transcriptome than RepeatExplorer2-identified LTR retroelements, potentially reflecting the transcription of elements that have insufficient genomic copy numbers to be detected by RepeatExplorer2. In contrast, for ribo-depleted libraries of stem tissues, the reverse was observed, with a higher transcriptome representation of RepeatExplorer2-identified LTR retroelements. For RepeatExplorer2-identified repeats, we show that the GP of most Ty1/copia and Ty3/gypsy families were positively correlated with their transcript proportion. In addition, guanine- and cytosine-rich repeats with high sequence similarity were also the most abundant in the transcriptome, and these likely represent young elements that are most capable of amplification due to their ability to evade epigenetic silencing.
Translating biological knowledge from Arabidopsis to crop species is important to advance agriculture and secure food production in the face of dwindling fertilizer resources and biotic and abiotic stresses. However, it is often not trivial to identify functional homologs (orthologs) of Arabidopsis genes in crops. Combining sequence and expression data can improve the correct prediction of orthologs. Here, we conducted a large-scale RNA sequencing based transcriptomics study of Arabidopsis, Medicago, Brachypodium, and Setaria grown side-by-side in phosphorus (P)-sufficient and P-limited conditions to generate comparable transcriptomics datasets. Comparison of top 200 P-limitation-induced genes in Arabidopsis revealed that ~80% of these genes have identifiable close homologs in the other three species but only ~50% retain their P-limitation response in the legume and grasses. Most of the hallmark genes of the P-starvation response were found conserved in all four species. This study reveals many known, novel, unannotated, conserved, and species-specific forms of regulation of the transcriptional P-starvation response. Identification and experimental verification of expressologs by independent RT-qPCR for P-limitation marker genes in Prunus showed the usefulness of comparative transcriptomics in pinpointing the functional orthologs in diverse crop species. This study provides an unprecedented resource for functional genomics and translational research to create P-efficient crops.
Many C4 plants are used as food and fodder crops and often display improved resource use efficiency compared to C3 plants. However, the response of C4 plants to future extreme conditions such as heatwaves is less understood. Here, Setaria viridis, an emerging C4 model grass, was grown under long-term high-temperature stress for 2 wk (42 °C, compared to 28 °C). This resulted in stunted growth, but surprisingly had little impact on leaf thickness, leaf area-based photosynthetic rates, and bundle sheath leakiness. Dark respiration rates increased, and there were major alterations in carbon and nitrogen metabolism in the heat-stressed plants. Abscisic acid and indole-3-acetic acid-amino acid conjugates accumulated in the heat-stressed plants, consistent with transcriptional changes. Leaf transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics analyses were carried out and mapped onto the metabolic pathways of photosynthesis, respiration, carbon/nitrogen metabolism, and phytohormone biosynthesis and signaling. An in-depth analysis of correlations between transcripts and their corresponding proteins revealed strong differences between groups in the strengths and signs of correlations. Overall, many stress signaling pathways were upregulated, consistent with multiple signals leading to reduced plant growth. A systems-based model of the plant response to long-term heat stress is presented based on the oxidative stress, phytohormone, and sugar signaling pathways.
Adapter proteins (APs) complex is a class of heterotetrameric complexes comprising of 4-subunits with important regulatory functions in eukaryotic cell membrane vesicle trafficking. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) is a significant C This research conducted genome-wide identification and systematical analysis of AP complexes in foxtail millet. 33 SiAP complex genes were identified and classified into 7 groups, distributed unevenly across 9 chromosomes in foxtail millet. Among these genes, 11 segmental duplication pairs were found. Out of the 33 SiAP complex genes, 24 exhibited collinear relationships with Setaria viridis, while only one showed relationship with Arabidopsis thaliana. Gene structure and motif composition were investigated to understand the function and evolution of these SiAP complex genes. Furthermore, these promoter region of the SiAP complex genes contains 49 cis-elements that are associated with responses to light, hormones, abiotic stress, growth and development. The interaction network between the SiAP complexes was analyzed, and there were strong interactions among the SiAP complex proteins. Expression patterns of SiAP complex genes in different organs and developmental stages of foxtail millet were investigated. The majority of the SiAP complex genes exhibited expressed in multiple tissues, with some genes being predominantly expressed in specific tissues. Subsequently, we selected SiAP4M and SiAP2M for validation of subcellular localization. The signal of 35 S:: SiAP4M: GFP (Long) and 35 S:: SiAP4M: GFP (Short) fused proteins were primarily observed in the nucleus, while the signal of 35 S:: SiAP2M: GFP fused proteins was widely distributed on the cell membrane and vesicles. Overall, this study presents a comprehensive map of the SiAP complexes in foxtail millet. These findings not only administer to understanding the biological functions of AP complexes in foxtail millet growth and development but also offer insights for enhancing genetic breeding in this crop.
As modern industrial activities have advanced, the prevalence of microplastics and nanoplastics in the environment has increased, thereby impacting plant growth. Potassium is one of the most crucial nutrient cations for plant biology. Understanding how polyethylene terephthalate (PET) treatment affects potassium uptake will deepen our understanding of plant response mechanisms to plastic pollution. In this study, we examined the impact of PET micro- and nanoplastics on foxtail millet seedling growth and potassium accumulation. Additionally, we measured reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, antioxidant enzyme activities, and the expression levels of the corresponding enzyme-encoding genes. Our findings indicated that the germination and seedling growth of foxtail millet were not significantly affected by exposure to PET plastics. However, the ROS levels in foxtail millet increased under these conditions. This increase in ROS led to the upregulation of several genes involved in K Our research indicates that PET nanoplastic treatment induces the expression of genes related to K
Pollen development and germination play a crucial role in the sexual reproduction of plants. This study analysis of transcriptional dynamics of foxtail millet pollen with other tissues and organs (ovule, glume, seedling and root) through RNA-sequencing revealed that a total of 940 genes were up-regulated in foxtail millet pollen. Based on this, we analyzed the genes involved in pollen tube growth of receptor kinases and small peptides, calcium signaling, small G proteins, vesicle transport, cytoskeleton, cell wall correlation, and transcription factors that are up-regulated in pollen. At the same time, we compared the gene expression of foxtail millet pollen and mature anthers, and found that a large number of transcription factors were specific expressed in mature anthers. In addition, we verified the accuracy of the transcriptome data using RT-qPCR. Finally, employed the antisense Oligonucleotide (as-ODN) system found that inhibiting SiPME67 expression would cause abnormal growth of pollen tube subapical. In summary, we preliminarily analyzed the genes that were up-regulated in foxtail millet pollen, which provided a reference for understanding the male sterility mechanism of foxtail millet in the future and theoretical basis for creating new male sterility lines.
As components of a family of proteins with peptidyl-prolyl isomerase activity family, FKBP (FK506-binding protein) and CYP (Cyclophilins) exert crucial roles in various physiological and biochemical processes such as cell signal transduction and stress resistance. The functions of the FKBP or CYP family have been extensively discussed in various organisms, while the comprehensive characterization of this family in The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-024-01530-w.
Nitrogen is a critical factor in plant growth, development, and crop yield. NODULE-INCEPTION-like proteins (NLPs), which are plant-specific transcription factors, function as nitrate sensors and play a vital role in the nitrogen response of plants. However, the genome-wide identification of the
Plasmodesmata (PD) are nanochannels that facilitate cell-to-cell transport in plants. More productive and photosynthetically efficient C
SiDVLs inhibit auxin signaling to regulate root growth by enhancing the expression of Aux/IAAs and reducing the protein accumulation of PINs. The DEVIL/ ROTUNDIFOLIA (DVL/RTFL), a small polypeptide family, is conserved in seed plants and important in regulating plant growth and development. However, the molecular mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, 27 SiDVLs were identified in foxtail millet genome. Overexpression of three SiDVLs in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) strongly repressed the plant growth, especially the root growth. We demonstrate that overexpression of SiDVLs enhances Auxin/Indole-3-Acetic Acids (Aux/IAAs) transcription, thereby weakening auxin signaling in the roots. Furthermore, SiDVLs reduced the protein levels of the auxin transporters PIN-formed 1 (PIN1), PIN2, and PIN7 in the roots. The impaired auxin signaling reduces the cell division and elongation. In conclusion, SiDVLs suppress cell division and elongation in root by inhibiting auxin signaling and transport, which lead to the reduced root growth.
In photoperiod-sensitive plants, the CO-like gene (CONSTANS-like, COL) has a crucial function in regulating the timing of flowering. The blooming period in foxtail millet is greatly influenced by the duration of daylight; however, there is a scarcity of data regarding the molecular properties of the COL genes in the foxtail millet. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of the COL gene family in foxtail millet at the genome-wide level. We identified 11 SiCOL genes and performed gene structure analysis, which showed pronounced variation in gene length and intron number among the genes. The examination of COL proteins in foxtail millet and other plant species using phylogenetic analysis revealed that they could be clustered into three distinct groups. Cis-element analysis identified elements related to light-responsiveness, hormones, and abiotic stress in the promoter region of the SiCOL gene. Furthermore, tissue-specific expression analysis showed widespread expression of all 11 SiCOL genes in various foxtail millet tissues and organs, particularly in leaves and panicles. Collinearity analysis identified 14 syntenic gene pairs in both foxtail millet and rice. The results also revealed diurnal oscillations in the transcription levels of SiCOL genes under different light conditions. Moreover, among the 11 genes, SiCO, SiCOL1, and SiCOL6 expression levels were negatively correlated with flowering time variation in two foxtail cultivars. Additionally, upon constructing a network of predicted molecular interactions, FLOWER LOCUS-like (FTL) and Phytochromea A (PHY A) were suggested to potentially interact with SiCO, SiCOL1, and SiCOL6. SiCO, SiCOL1, and SiCOL6 have the potential for flowering and heading in foxtail millet. This research enhances our comprehension of the role and control of the SiCOL gene family constituents in foxtail millet, establishing a basis for future investigations.
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv.) is an environmentally friendly crop that meets the current requirements of international food security and is widely accepted as a photosynthesis research model. However, whether exogenous sucrose treatment has a positive effect on foxtail millet growth remains unknown. Here, we employed physiological and molecular approaches to identify photosynthesis and source capacity associated with exogenous sucrose during the growth of Jingu 21 seedlings. RNA-seq analysis showed that some differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to photosynthesis and carotenoid biosynthesis were induced by exogenous sucrose and that most of these genes were up-regulated. An increase in gas exchange parameters, chlorophyll content, and chlorophyll fluorescence of Jingu 21 was noted after exogenous sucrose addition. Furthermore, exogenous sucrose up-regulated genes encoding sucrose and hexose transporters and enhanced starch and sucrose metabolism. More DEGs were up-regulated by sucrose, the nonstructural carbohydrate (NSC) content in the leaves increased and energy metabolism and sucrose loading subsequently improved, ultimately enhancing photosynthesis under normal and dark conditions. Further analysis revealed that WRKYs, ERFs, HY5, RAP2, and ABI5 could be key transcription factors involved in growth regulation. These results indicate that exogenous sucrose affects the normal photosynthetic performance of foxtail millet by increasing NSC transport and loading. They improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of the effects of exogenous sucrose on photosynthesis in foxtail millet, providing an effective measure to enhance source-sink relationships and improve yield.
Rising temperatures due to the current climate crisis will soon have devastating impacts on crop performance and resilience. In particular, CO2 assimilation is dramatically limited at high temperatures. CO2 assimilation is accomplished by rubisco, which is inhibited by the binding of inhibitory sugar phosphates to its active site. Plants therefore utilize the essential chaperone rubisco activase (RCA) to remove these inhibitors and enable continued CO2 fixation. However, RCA does not function at moderately high temperatures (42°C), resulting in impaired rubisco activity and reduced CO2 assimilation. We set out to understand temperature-dependent RCA regulation in four different C4 plants, with a focus on the crop plants maize (two cultivars) and sorghum, as well as the model grass Setaria viridis (setaria) using gas exchange measurements, which confirm that CO2 assimilation is limited by carboxylation in these organisms at high temperatures (42°C). All three species express distinct complements of RCA isoforms and each species alters the isoform and proteoform abundances in response to heat; however, the changes are species-specific. We also examine whether the heat-mediated inactivation of RCA is due to biochemical regulation rather than simple thermal denaturation. We reveal that biochemical regulation affects RCA function differently in different C4 species, and differences are apparent even between different cultivars of the same species. Our results suggest that each grass evolved different strategies to maintain RCA function during stress and we conclude that a successful engineering approach aimed at improving carbon capture in C4 grasses will need to accommodate these individual regulatory mechanisms.
The study established split-root system (SRS) in foxtail millet, and identified the molecular regulatory mechanisms and metabolic pathways related to systemic nitrogen signaling based on this system and transcriptome analysis. The growth of crops is primarily constrained by the availability of nitrogen (N), an essential nutrient. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) is a significant orphan crop known for its strong tolerance to barren conditions. Despite this, the signaling pathway of nitrogen in foxtail millet remains largely unexplored. Identifying the candidate genes responsible for nitrogen response in foxtail millet is crucial for enhancing its agricultural productivity. This study utilized the split-root system (SRS) in foxtail millet to uncover genes associated with Systemic Nitrogen Signaling (SNS). Transcriptome analysis of the SRS revealed 2158 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) implicated in SNS, including those involved in cytokinin synthesis, transcription factors, E3 ubiquitin ligase, and ROS metabolism. Silencing of SiIPT5 and SiATL31 genes through RNAi in transgenic plants resulted in reduced SNS response, indicating their role in the nitrogen signaling pathway of foxtail millet. Furthermore, the induction of ROS metabolism-related genes in response to KNO
In plants, RopGEF-mediated ROP signaling is pivotal in cellular signaling pathways, including apical growth, pollen germination and perception, intercellular recognition, as well as in responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. In this study, we retrieved a total of 37 RopGEF members from three C
Tubby-like proteins (TLPs) are a group of proteins found in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. They are significant in various physiological and biochemical processes, especially in plants' response to abiotic stress. However, the role of TLP in foxtail millet (Setaria italica) remains unclear. The millet genome has 16 members of the TLP family with typical Tub domains, which can be sorted into five subgroups based on gene structure, motif, and protein domain distribution. SiTLPs were discovered to be predominantly located in the nucleus and also had extracellular distribution. The interspecific evolutionary analysis indicated that SiTLPs had a closer evolutionary relationship with monocots and were consistent with the morphological classification of foxtail millet. When subjected to salt stress, the abundance of SiTLP was affected, and qRT-PCR results showed that the expression levels of certain SiTLP members were induced by salt stress while others remained unresponsive. Except for SiTLP14, all other SiTLP genes were up-regulated in response to high-temperature stress, implying a potentially crucial role for SiTLP in mitigating high-temperature-induced damage. This study provides valuable insights into understanding the functional significance of the TLP gene family in foxtail millet.
Among the largest transcription factor families in plants, bZIPs are crucial for various developmental and physiological processes, particularly abiotic stress resistance.
Foxtail millet is one of the oldest crops, and its endosperm contains up to 70% of starch. Grain filling is an important starch accumulation process associated with foxtail millet yield and quality. However, the molecular mechanisms of grain filling in foxtail millet are relatively unclear. Here, we investigate the genes and regulated miRNAs associated with starch synthesis and metabolism in foxtail millet using high-throughput small RNA, mRNA and degradome sequencing. The regulation of starch synthesis and quality is carried out mainly at the 15 DAA to 35 DAA stage during grain filling. The DEGs between waxy and non-waxy foxtail millet were significant, especially for
The indeterminate domain proteins (IDD proteins) play essential roles in the growth and development of various plant tissues and organs across different developmental stages, but members of this gene family have not yet been characterized in foxtail millet (
ERECTA (ER) is a type of receptor-like kinase that contributes a crucial mission in various aspects of plant development, physiological metabolism, and abiotic stresses responses. This study aimed to explore the functional characteristics of the SiER family genes in millet (Setaria italica L.), focusing on the growth phenotype and drought resistance of Arabidopsis overexpressed SiER4_X1 and SiER1_X4 genes (SiERs ). The results revealed that overexpression of SiER4_X1 and SiER1_X4 genes in Arabidopsis significantly enhanced the leaf number, expanded leaf length and width, further promoted the silique number, length and diameter, and plant height and main stem thickness, ultimately leading to a substantial increase in individual plant biomass. Compared to the wild-type (WT), through simulated drought stress, the expression level of SiER genes was notably upregulated, transgenic Arabidopsis seeds exhibited stronger germination rates and root development; after experiencing drought conditions, the activities of antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase and peroxidase) increased, while the levels of malondialdehyde and relative electrical conductivity decreased. These results indicate that overexpression of SiERs significantly enhanced both biomass production and drought resistance in Arabidopsis . The SiER4_X1 and SiER1_X4 genes emerge as promising candidate genes for improving biomass production and drought resistance in forage plants.
In recent years, covalent modifications on RNA nucleotides have emerged as pivotal moieties influencing the structure, function, and regulatory processes of RNA Polymerase II transcripts such as mRNAs and lncRNAs. However, our understanding of their biological roles and whether these roles are conserved across eukaryotes remains limited. In this study, we leveraged standard polyadenylation-enriched RNA-sequencing data to identify and characterize RNA modifications that introduce base-pairing errors into cDNA reads. Our investigation incorporated data from three Poaceae (Zea mays, Sorghum bicolor, and Setaria italica), as well as publicly available data from a range of stress and genetic contexts in Sorghum and Arabidopsis thaliana. We uncovered a strong enrichment of RNA covalent modifications (RCMs) deposited on a conserved core set of nuclear mRNAs involved in photosynthesis and translation across these species. However, the cohort of modified transcripts changed based on environmental context and developmental program, a pattern that was also conserved across flowering plants. We determined that RCMs can partly explain accession-level differences in drought tolerance in Sorghum, with stress-associated genes receiving a higher level of RCMs in a drought tolerant accession. To address function, we determined that RCMs are significantly enriched near exon junctions within coding regions, suggesting an association with splicing. Intriguingly, we found that these base-pair disrupting RCMs are associated with stable mRNAs, are highly correlated with protein abundance, and thus likely associated with facilitating translation. Our data point to a conserved role for RCMs in mRNA stability and translation across the flowering plant lineage.
Plant height (PH) is a crucial trait for strengthening lodging resistance and boosting yield in foxtail millet. To identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) and candidate genes associated with PH, we first developed a genetic map using a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from a cross between Aininghuang and Jingu 21. Then, PH phenotyping data and four variations of best linear unbiased prediction (BLUP) were collected from nine environments and three development stages. Next, QTL mapping was conducted using both unconditional and conditional QTL methods. Subsequently, candidate genes were predicted via transcriptome analysis of parental samples at three developmental stages. The results revealed that the genetic map, based on re-sequencing, consisted of 4,360 bin markers spanning 1,016.06 cM with an average genetic distance of 0.23 cM. A total of 19 unconditional QTL, accounting for 5.23%-35.36% of the phenotypic variation explained (PVE), which included 7 major and 4 stable QTL, were identified. Meanwhile, 13 conditional QTL, explaining 5.88%-40.35% of PVE, including 5 major and 3 stable QTL, were discovered. Furthermore, four consistent and stable QTL were identified. Finally, eight candidate genes were predicted through RNA-seq and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Those findings provide a crucial foundation for understanding the genetic mechanisms underlying PH development and facilitate molecular marker-assisted breeding of ideal plant types in foxtail millet.
Drought stress triggers sugar accumulation in plants, providing energy and aiding in protection against oxidative damage. Plant hardening under mild stress conditions has been shown to enhance plant resistance to severe stress conditions. While sugar accumulation and metabolism under drought stress have been well-documented in crop plants, the effect of drought acclimation treatment on sugar accumulation and metabolism has not yet been explored. In this study, we investigated the impact of drought stress acclimation on sugar accumulation and metabolism in the leaves and root tissues of two commonly cultivated foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) genotypes, 'PI 689680' and 'PI 662292'. Quantification of total sugars (soluble sugar, fructose, glucose, and sucrose), their related enzymes (SPS, SuSy, NI, and AI), and the regulation of their related transcripts (SiSPS1, SiSuSy1, SiSWEET6, SiA-INV, and SiC-INV) revealed that drought-acclimated (DA) plants exhibited levels of these indicators comparable to those of control plants. However, under subsequent drought stress conditions, both the leaves and roots of non-acclimated plants accumulated higher levels of total sugars, displayed increased activity of sugar metabolism enzymes, and showed elevated expression of sugar metabolism-related transcripts compared to drought-acclimated plants. Thus, acclimation-induced restriction of sugar accumulation, transport, and metabolism could be one of the metabolic processes contributing to enhanced drought tolerance in millet. This study advocates for the use of acclimation as an effective strategy to mitigate the negative impacts of drought-induced metabolic disturbances in millet, thereby enhancing global food security and promoting sustainable agricultural systems.
Drought stress is a major constraint on crop development, potentially causing huge yield losses and threatening global food security. Improving Crop's stress tolerance is usually associated with a yield penalty. One way to balance yield and stress tolerance is modification specific gene by emerging precision genome editing technology. However, our knowledge of yield-related drought-tolerant genes is still limited. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) has a remarkable tolerance to drought and is considered to be a model C4 crop that is easy to engineer. Here, we have identified 46 drought-responsive candidate genes by performing a machine learning-based transcriptome study on two drought-tolerant and two drought-sensitive foxtail millet cultivars. A total of 12 important drought-responsive genes were screened out by principal component analysis and confirmed experimentally by qPCR. Significantly, by investigating the haplotype of these genes based on 1844 germplasm resources, we found two genes (Seita.5G251300 and Seita.8G036300) exhibiting drought-tolerant haplotypes that possess an apparent advantage in 1000 grain weight and main panicle grain weight without penalty in grain weight per plant. These results demonstrate the potential of Seita.5G251300 and Seita.8G036300 for breeding drought-tolerant high-yielding foxtail millet. It provides important insights for the breeding of drought-tolerant high-yielding crop cultivars through genetic manipulation technology.
This study aims to determine the effects of copper, copper oxide nanoparticles, aluminium, and aluminium oxide nanoparticles on the growth rate and expression of ACT-1, CDPK, LIP, NFC, P5CR, P5CS, GR, and SiZIP1 genes in five days old seedling of Setaria italica ssp. maxima, cultivated in hydroponic culture. Depending on their concentration (ranging from 0.1 to 1.8 mg L
Green foxtail [Setaria viridis (L.)] is one of the most abundant and troublesome annual grass weeds in alfalfa fields in Northeast China. Synthetic auxin herbicide is widely used in agriculture, while how auxin herbicide affects tillering on perennial grass weeds is still unclear. A greenhouse experiment was conducted to examine the effects of auxin herbicide 2,4-D on green foxtail growth, especially on tillers. In the study, 2,4-D isooctyl ester was used. There was an inhibition of plant height and fresh weight on green foxtail after application. The photosynthetic rate of the leaves was dramatically reduced and there was an accumulation of malondialdehyde (MDA) content. Moreover, applying 2,4-D isooctyl ester significantly reduced the tillering buds at rates between 2100 and 8400 ga. i. /ha. Transcriptome results showed that applying 2,4-D isooctyl ester on leaves affected the phytohormone signal transduction pathways in plant tillers. Among them, there were significant effects on auxin, cytokinin, abscisic acid (ABA), gibberellin (GA), and brassinosteroid signaling. Indeed, external ABA and GA on leaves also limited tillering in green foxtail. These data will be helpful to further understand the responses of green foxtail to 2, 4-D isooctyl ester, which may provide a unique perspective for the development and identification of new target compounds that are effective against this weed species.
Agricultural soils contaminated with heavy metals poison crops and disturb the normal functioning of rhizosphere microbial communities. Different crops and rhizosphere microbial communities exhibit different heavy metal resistance mechanisms. Here, indoor pot studies were used to assess the mechanisms of grain and soil rhizosphere microbial communities on chromium (Cr) stress. Millet grain variety 'Jingu 21' (
Amino acid permeases (AAPs) transporters are crucial for the long-distance transport of amino acids in plants, from source to sink. While
Drought severely impacts plant development and reproduction, reducing biomass and seed number, and altering flowering patterns. Drought-tolerant
The SiMBR genes in foxtail millet were identified and studied. Heterologous expression of SiMBR2 in Arabidopsis can improve plant tolerance to drought stress by decreasing the level of reactive oxygen species. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.), a C4 crop recognized for its exceptional resistance to drought stress, presents an opportunity to improve the genetic resilience of other crops by examining its unique stress response genes and understanding the underlying molecular mechanisms of drought tolerance. In our previous study, we identified several genes linked to drought stress by transcriptome analysis, including SiMBR2 (Seita.7G226600), a member of the MED25 BINDING RING-H2 PROTEIN (MBR) gene family, which is related to protein ubiquitination. Here, we have identified ten SiMBR genes in foxtail millet and conducted analyses of their structural characteristics, chromosomal locations, cis-acting regulatory elements within their promoters, and predicted transcription patterns specific to various tissues or developmental stages using bioinformatic approaches. Further investigation of the stress response of SiMBR2 revealed that its transcription is induced by treatments with salicylic acid and gibberellic acid, as well as by salt and osmotic stresses, while exposure to high or low temperatures led to a decrease in its transcription levels. Heterologous expression of SiMBR2 in Arabidopsis thaliana enhanced the plant's tolerance to water deficit by reducing the accumulation of reactive oxygen species under drought stress. In summary, this study provides support for exploring the molecular mechanisms associated with drought resistance of SiMBR genes in foxtail millet and contributing to genetic improvement and molecular breeding in other crops.
Brassinosteroids (BRs) are important regulators that control myriad aspects of plant growth and development, including biotic and abiotic stress responses, such that modulating BR homeostasis and signaling presents abundant opportunities for plant breeding and crop improvement. Enzymes and other proteins involved in the biosynthesis and signaling of BRs are well understood from molecular genetics and phenotypic analysis in Arabidopsis thaliana; however, knowledge of the molecular functions of these genes in other plant species, especially cereal crop plants, is minimal. In this manuscript, we comprehensively review functional studies of BR genes in Arabidopsis, maize, rice, Setaria, Brachypodium, and soybean to identify conserved and diversified functions across plant species and to highlight cases for which additional research is in order. We performed phylogenetic analysis of gene families involved in the biosynthesis and signaling of BRs and re-analyzed publicly available transcriptomic data. Gene trees coupled with expression data provide a valuable guide to supplement future research on BRs in these important crop species, enabling researchers to identify gene-editing targets for BR-related functional studies.
Chilling stress threatens plant growth and development, particularly affecting membrane fluidity and cellular integrity. Understanding plant membrane responses to chilling stress is important for unraveling the molecular mechanisms of stress tolerance. Whereas core transcriptional responses to chilling stress and stress tolerance are conserved across species, the associated changes in membrane lipids appear to be less conserved, as which lipids are affected by chilling stress varies by species. Here, we investigated changes in gene expression and membrane lipids in response to chilling stress during one 24 h cycle in chilling-tolerant foxtail millet (Setaria italica), and chilling-sensitive sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and Urochloa (browntop signal grass, Urochloa fusca, lipids only), leveraging their evolutionary relatedness and differing levels of chilling stress tolerance. We show that most chilling-induced lipid changes are conserved across the three species, while we observed distinct, time-specific responses in chilling-tolerant foxtail millet, indicating the presence of a finely orchestrated adaptive mechanism. We detected rhythmicity in lipid responses to chilling stress in the three grasses, which were also present in Arabidopsis thaliana, suggesting the conservation of rhythmic patterns across species and highlighting the importance of accounting for time of day. When integrating lipid datasets with gene expression profiles, we identified potential candidate genes that showed corresponding transcriptional changes in response to chilling stress, providing insights into the differences in regulatory mechanisms between chilling-sensitive sorghum and chilling-tolerant foxtail millet.
Nitrogen (N) is a macronutrient limiting crop productivity with varied requirements across species and genotypes. Understanding the mechanistic basis of N responsiveness by comparing contrasting genotypes could inform the development and selection of varieties with lower N demands, or inform agronomic practices to sustain yields with lower N inputs. Given the established role of millets in ensuring climate-resilient food and nutrition security, we investigated the physiological and genetic basis of nitrogen responsiveness in foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.). We had previously identified genotypic variants linked to N responsiveness, and here we dissect the mechanistic basis of the trait by examining the physiological and molecular behaviour of N responsive (NRp-SI58) and non-responsive (NNRp-SI114) accessions at high and low N. Under high N, NRp-SI58 allocates significantly more biomass to nodes, internodes and roots, more N to developing grains, and is more effective at remobilizing flag leaf N compared with NNRp-SI114. Post-anthesis flag leaf gene expression suggests that differences in N induce much higher transcript abundance in NNRp-SI114 than NRp-SI58, a large proportion of which is potentially regulated by APETALA2 (AP2) transcription factors. Overall, the study provides novel insights into the regulation and manipulation of N responsiveness in S. italica.
Cell wall invertase (CIN) is a vital member of plant invertase (INV) and plays a key role in the breakdown of sucrose. This enzyme facilitates the hydrolysis of sucrose into glucose and fructose, which is crucial for various aspects of plant growth and development. However, the function of CIN genes in foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is less studied. In this research, we used the blast-p of NCBI and TBtools for bidirectional comparison, and a total of 13 CIN genes (named SiCINs) were identified from foxtail millet by using Arabidopsis and rice CIN sequences as reference sequences. The phylogenetic tree analysis revealed that the CIN genes can be categorized into three subfamilies: group 1, group 2, and group 3. Furthermore, upon conducting chromosomal localization analysis, it was observed that the 13 SiCINs were distributed unevenly across five chromosomes. Cis-acting elements of SiCIN genes can be classified into three categories: plant growth and development, stress response, and hormone response. The largest number of cis-acting elements were those related to light response (G-box) and the cis-acting elements related to seed-specific regulation (RY-element). qRT-PCR analysis further confirmed that the expression of SiCIN7 and SiCIN8 in the grain was higher than that in any other tissues. The overexpression of SiCIN7 in Arabidopsis improved the grain size and thousand-grain weight, suggesting that SiCIN7 could positively regulate grain development. Our findings will help to further understand the grain-filling mechanism of SiCIN and elucidate the biological mechanism underlying the grain development of SiCIN.
Foxtail millet is an important cereal crop that is relatively sensitive to salt stress, with its yield significantly affected by such stress. Alternative splicing (AS) widely affects plant growth, development, and adaptability to stressful environments. Through RNA-seq analysis of foxtail millet under different salt treatment periods, 2078 AS events were identified, and analyses were conducted on differential gene (DEG), differential alternative splicing gene (DASG), and overlapping gene. To investigate the regulatory mechanism of AS in response to salt stress in foxtail millet, the foxtail millet AS genes
Trypsin inhibitors derived from plants have various pharmacological activities and promising clinical applications. In our previous study, a Bowman-Birk-type major trypsin inhibitor from foxtail millet bran (FMB-BBTI) was extracted with antiatherosclerotic activity. Currently, we found that FMB-BBTI possesses a prominent anticolorectal cancer (anti-CRC) activity. Further, a recombinant FMB-BBTI (rFMB-BBTI) was successfully expressed in a soluble manner in host strain
WUSCHEL-related homeobox (WOX) transcription factors are unique to plants and play pivotal roles in plant development and stress responses. In this investigation, we acquired protein sequences of foxtail millet
DNA methylation is a highly conserved epigenetic modification involved in many biological processes, including growth and development, stress response, and secondary metabolism. DNA demethylase (DNA-deMTase) genes have been identified in some plant species; however, there are no reports on the identification and analysis of DNA-deMTase genes in Foxtail millet (
Leaf senescence, a pivotal process in plants, directly influences both crop yield and nutritional quality. Foxtail millet (
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) is a chemically reactive chemical substance containing oxygen and a natural by-product of normal oxygen metabolism. Excessive ROS affect the growth process of crops, which will lead to the decrease of yield. Nitrogen, as a critical nutrient element in plants and plays a vital role in plant growth and crop production. Nitrate is the primary nitrogen source available to plants in agricultural soil and various natural environments. However, the molecular mechanism of ROS-nitrate crosstalk is still unclear. In this study, we used the foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) as the material to figure it out. Here, we show that excessive NaCl inhibits nitrate-promoted plant growth and nitrogen use efficiency (NUE). NaCl induces ROS accumulation in roots, and ROS inhibits nitrate-induced gene expression in a short time. Surprisingly, low concentration ROS slight promotes and high concentration of ROS inhibits foxtail millet growth under long-term H
Sulfur (S) is a mineral nutrient essential for plant growth and development, which is incorporated into diverse molecules fundamental for primary and secondary metabolism, plant defense, signaling, and maintaining cellular homeostasis. Although, S starvation response is well documented in the dicot model Arabidopsis thaliana, it is not clear if the same transcriptional networks control the response also in the monocots. We performed series of physiological, expression, and metabolite analyses in two model monocot species, one representing the C Our analysis shows that S-deficiency seems to have different physiological consequences in the two monocot species and their nutrient homeostasis might be under distinct control mechanisms.
Grass leaves are invariantly strap shaped with an elongated distal blade and a proximal sheath that wraps around the stem. Underpinning this shape is a scaffold of leaf veins, most of which extend in parallel along the proximo-distal leaf axis. Differences between species are apparent both in the vein types that develop and in the distance between veins across the medio-lateral leaf axis. A prominent engineering goal is to increase vein density in leaves of C
Selenium-enriched foxtail millet ( To unravel the molecular mechanisms governing selenium accumulation and transportation in foxtail millet, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of selenium content and transcriptome responses in foxtail millet spikelets across different days (3, 5, 7, and 12) under Na Foxtail millet subjected to selenium fertilizer exhibited significantly elevated selenium levels in each tissue compared to the untreated control. Selenate was observed to be transported and accumulated sequentially in the leaf, stem, and spikes. Transcriptome analysis unveiled a substantial upregulation in the transcription levels of genes associated with selenium metabolism and transport, including sulfate, phosphate, and nitrate transporters, ABC transporters, antioxidants, phytohormone signaling, and transcription factors. These genes demonstrated intricate interactions, both synergistic and antagonistic, forming a complex network that regulated selenate transport mechanisms. Gene co-expression network analysis highlighted three transcription factors in the tan module and three transporters in the turquoise module that significantly correlated with selenium accumulation and transportation. Expression of sulfate transporters (SiSULTR1.2b and SiSULTR3.1a), phosphate transporter (PHT1.3), nitrate transporter 1 (NRT1.1B), glutathione S-transferase genes (GSTs), and ABC transporter (ABCC13) increased with SeO This study provides preliminary insights into the mechanisms of selenium accumulation and transportation in foxtail millet. The findings hold theoretical significance for the cultivation of selenium-enriched foxtail millet.
E3 ubiquitin ligases are central modifiers of plant signaling pathways that regulate protein function, localization, degradation, and other biological processes by linking ubiquitin to target proteins. E3 ubiquitin ligases include proteins with the U-box domain. However, there has been no report about the foxtail millet (
ABA Insensitive 5 (ABI5) is a basic leucine zipper transcription factor that crucially influences plant growth, development, and stress response. However, there is minimal research on the ABI5 family in foxtail millet. In this study, 16 ABI5 genes were identified in foxtail millet, and their sequence composition, gene structures, cis-acting elements, chromosome positions, and gene replication events were analyzed. To more thoroughly evaluate the developmental mechanisms of the SiABI5 family during evolution, we selected three dicotyledons (S. lycopersicum, A. thaliana, F. tataricum) and three (Z. mays, O. sativa, S. bicolor) specific representative monocotyledons associated with foxtail millet for comparative homology mapping. The results showed that foxtail millet ABI5 genes had the best homology with maize. A promoter sequence analysis showed that the SiABI5s contain numerous cis-acting elements related to hormone and stress responses, indicating that the regulation of SiABI5 expression was complex. The expression responses of 16 genes in different tissues, seed germination, and ear development were analyzed. A total of six representative genes were targeted from five subfamilies to characterize their gene expression responses to four different abiotic stresses. Overexpression of SiABI5.12 confers tolerance to osmotic stress in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana, which demonstrated the function of SiABI5 responded to abiotic stress. In summary, our research results comprehensively characterized the SiABI5 family and can provide a valuable reference for demonstrating the role of SiABI5s in regulating abiotic stress responses in foxtail millet.
Amino acid/auxin permease (AAAP) genes encode a large family of protein transporters that play important roles in various aspects of plant growth and development. Here, we performed genome-wide identification of members in the foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) AAAP family (SiAAAP) and their saline-alkali stress-induced expression patterns, resulting in the identification of 65 SiAAAP genes, which could be divided into eight subfamilies. Except for SiAAAP65, the remaining 64 genes were located on nine chromosomes of foxtail millet. Gene structure and conserved motif analyses indicated that the members in the same subfamily are highly conserved. Gene duplication event analysis suggested that tandem duplication may be the main factor driving the expansion of this gene family, and Ka/Ks analysis indicated that all the duplicated genes have undergone purifying selection. Transcriptome analysis showed differential expression of SiAAAPs in roots, stems, leaves, and tassel inflorescence. Analysis of cis-acting elements in the promoter indicated that SiAAAPs contain stress-responsive cis-acting elements. Under saline-alkali stress, qRT-PCR analysis showed that SiAAP3, SiLHT2, and SiAAP16 were differentially expressed between salt-alkali tolerant millet variety JK3 and salt-alkali sensitive millet variety B175. These results suggest that these genes may be involved in or regulate the response to saline-alkali stress, providing a theoretical basis for further studying the function of SiAAAPs.
Photosynthetic efficiency is reduced by the dual role of Rubisco, which acts either as a carboxylase or as an oxygenase, the latter leading to photorespiration. C
Two major genetic loci, qTN5.1 and qAB9.1, were identified and finely mapped to the 255 Kb region with one potential candidate gene for tiller number and the 521 Kb region with eight candidate genes for axillary branch number, respectively. Vegetative branching including tillering and axillary branching are vital traits affecting both the plant architecture and the biomass in cereal crops. However, the mechanism underlying the formation of vegetative branching in foxtail millet is largely unknown. Here, a foxtail millet cultivar and its bushy wild relative Setaria viridis accession were used to construct segregating populations to identify candidate genes regulating tiller number and axillary branch number. Transcriptome analysis using vegetative branching bud samples of parental accessions was performed, and key differentially expressed genes and pathways regulating vegetative branching were pointed out. Bulk segregant analysis on their F
The nucleotide binding site leucine rich repeat (NBLRR) genes significantly regulate defences against phytopathogens in plants. The genome-wide identification and analysis of NBLRR genes have been performed in several species. However, the detailed evolution, structure, expression of NBLRRs and functional response to Magnaporthe grisea are unknown in finger millet (Eleusine coracana (L.) Gaertn.). The genome-wide scanning of the finger millet genome resulted in 116 NBLRR (EcNBLRRs1-116) encompassing 64 CC-NB-LRR, 47 NB-LRR and 5 CC The identification and expression analysis of EcNBLRRs showed the role of EcNBLRR genes in assigning blast resistance in finger millet. These results pave the foundation for in-depth and targeted functional analysis of EcNBLRRs through genome editing and transgenic approaches.
The C4 photosynthetic pathway provided a major advantage to plants growing in hot, dry environments, including the ancestors of our most productive crops. Two traits were essential for the evolution of this pathway: increased vein density and the functionalization of bundle sheath cells for photosynthesis. Although GRAS transcriptional regulators, including SHORT ROOT (SHR), have been implicated in mediating leaf patterning in both C3 and C4 species, little is known about what controls the specialized features of the cells that mediate C4 metabolism and physiology. We show in the model monocot,
The transcriptome is beneficial for dissecting the mechanism of millet in response to low potassium stress and SiSnRK2.6 was identified as a potential target for improving low potassium stress tolerance. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.), which originated in China, has high nutrient utilization character. Nevertheless, the molecular mechanism of its tolerance to low potassium stress is largely unclear. In this research, the low potassium tolerant variety "Yugu28" was screened out by low potassium stress treatment, and the transcriptome of "Yugu28" under low potassium stress was comprehensively analyzed. A total of 4254 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, including 1618 up-regulated and 2636 down-regulated genes, respectively. In addition, there were 302 transcription factor (TF) genes in the DEGs and MYB TFs accounted for the highest proportion, which was 14.9%. After functional analysis of all DEGs, a total of 7 genes involved in potassium transport and potassium ion channels and 50 genes corresponding to hormones were screened. The expression levels of randomly selected 17 DEGs were verified by qRT-PCR and the results coincided well with the RNA-seq analysis, indicating the reliability of our transcriptome data. Moreover, one of the ABA signaling pathway genes, SiSnRK2.6, was identified and selected for further functional verification. Compared with the wild type, transgenic rice with ecotopic expression of SiSnRK2.6 showed remarkably increased root length and root number, indicating that overexpression of SiSnRK2.6 can enhance the resistance of transgenic plants to low potassium stress.
Eleven QTLs for agronomic traits were identified by RTM- and MLM-GWAS, putative candidate genes were predicted and two markers for grain weight were developed and validated. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica), the second most cultivated millet crop after pearl millet, is an important grain crop in arid regions. Seven agronomic traits of 408 diverse foxtail millet accessions from 15 provinces in China were evaluated in three environments. They were clustered into two divergent groups based on genotypic data using ADMIXTURE, which was highly consistent with their geographical distribution. Two models for genome-wide association studies (GWAS), namely restricted two-stage multi-locus multi-allele (RTM)-GWAS and mixed linear model (MLM)-GWAS, were used to dissect the genetic architecture of the agronomic traits based on 13,723 SNPs. Eleven quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for seven traits were identified using two models (RTM- and MLM-GWAS). Among them, five were considered stable QTLs that were identified in at least two environments using MLM-GWAS. One putative candidate gene (SETIT_006045mg, Chr4: 744,701-746,852) that can enhance grain weight per panicle was identified based on homologous gene comparison and gene expression analysis and was validated by haplotype analysis of 330 accessions with high-depth (10×) resequencing data (unpublished). In addition, homologous gene comparison and haplotype analysis identified one putative foxtail millet ortholog (SETIT_032906mg, Chr2: 5,020,600-5,029,771) with rice affecting the target traits. Two markers (cGWP6045 and kTGW2906) were developed and validated and can be used for marker-assisted selection of foxtail millet with high grain weight. The results provide a fundamental resource for foxtail millet genetic research and breeding and demonstrate the power of integrating RTM- and MLM-GWAS approaches as a complementary strategy for investigating complex traits in foxtail millet.
Drought is one of the leading environmental constraints that affect the growth and development of plants and, ultimately, their yield and quality. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is a natural stress-resistant plant and an ideal model for studying plant drought resistance. In this study, two varieties of foxtail millet with different levels of drought resistance were used as the experimental material. The soil weighing method was used to simulate drought stress, and the differences in growth, photosynthetic physiology, metabolite metabolism, and gene transcriptional expression under drought stress were compared and analyzed. We aimed to determine the physiological and key metabolic regulation pathways of the drought-tolerant millet in resistance to drought stress. The results showed that drought-tolerant millet exhibited relatively stable growth and photosynthetic parameters under drought stress while maintaining a relatively stable level of photosynthetic pigments. The metabolomic, transcriptomic, and gene co-expression network analysis confirmed that the key to adaptation to drought by millet was to enhance lignin metabolism, promote the metabolism of fatty acids to be transformed into cutin and wax, and improve ascorbic acid circulation. These findings provided new insights into the metabolic regulatory network of millet adaptation to drought stress.
The impact of climate change-induced drought stress on global food security and environmental sustainability is a serious concern. While previous research has highlighted the potential benefits of drought hardening in improving plants' ability to withstand drought, the exact underlying physiological mechanisms in millet plants ( The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-023-01366-w.
The rapid accumulation of sequenced plant genomes in the past decade has outpaced the still difficult problem of genome-wide protein-coding gene annotation. A substantial fraction of protein-coding genes in all plant genomes are poorly annotated or unannotated and remain functionally uncharacterized. We identified unannotated proteins in three model organisms representing distinct branches of the green lineage (Viridiplantae):
Plant respiratory burst oxidase homolog (Rboh) gene family produces reactive oxygen species (ROS), and it plays key roles in plant-microbe interaction. Most Rboh gene family-related studies mainly focused on dicotyledonous plants; however, little is known about the roles of Rboh genes in gramineae. A total of 106 Rboh genes were identified in seven gramineae species, including Zea mays, Sorghum bicolor, Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa, Setaria italica, Hordeum vulgare, and Triticum aestivum. The Rboh protein sequences showed high similarities, suggesting that they may have conserved functions across different species. Duplication mode analysis detected whole-genome/segmental duplication (WGD)/(SD) and dispersed in the seven species. Interestingly, two local duplication (LD, including tandem and proximal duplication) modes were found in Z. mays, S. italica and H. vulgare, while four LD were detected in T. aestivum, indicating that these genes may have similar functions. Collinearity analysis indicated that Rboh genes are at a stable evolution state in all the seven species. Besides, Rboh genes from Z. mays were closely related to those from S. bicolor, consistent with the current understanding of plant evolutionary history. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the genes in the subgroups I and II may participate in plant-AM fungus symbiosis. Cis-element analysis showed that different numbers of elements are related to fungal induction in the promoter region. Expression profiles of Rboh genes in Z. mays suggested that Rboh genes had distinct spatial expression patterns. By inoculation with AM fungi, our transcriptome analysis showed that the expression of Rboh genes varies upon AM fungal inoculation. In particularly, ZmRbohF was significantly upregulated after inoculation with AM fungi. pZmRbohF::GUS expression analyses indicated that ZmRbohF was induced by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in maize. By comparing WT and ZmRbohF mutant, we found ZmRbohF had limited impact on the establishment of maize-AM fungi symbiosis, but play critical roles in regulating the proper development of arbuscules. This study provides a comprehensive analysis of the evolution relationship of Rboh genes in seven gramineae species. Results showed that several Rboh genes regulate maize-AM fungal symbiosis process. This study provides valuable information for further studies of Rboh genes in gramineae.
Panicle development and grain production in crop species are essential breeding characteristics affected by the synthesis of auxin, which is influenced by flavin monooxygenase-encoding genes such as
Salt stress is a prevailing abiotic stress in nature, with soil salinization becoming a pressing issue worldwide. High soil salinity severely hampers plant growth and leads to reduced crop yields. Hydrogen sulfide (H
Climate change inflicts several stresses on plants, of which dehydration stress severely affects growth and productivity. C4 plants possess better adaptability to dehydration stress; however, the role of epigenetic modifications underlying this trait is unclear. In particular, the molecular links between histone modifiers and their regulation remain elusive. In this study, genome-wide H3K9 acetylation (H3K9ac) enrichment using ChIP-sequencing was performed in two foxtail millet cultivars with contrasting dehydration tolerances (IC403579, cv. IC4-tolerant, and IC480117, cv. IC41-sensitive). It revealed that a histone deacetylase, SiHDA9, was significantly up-regulated in the sensitive cultivar. Further characterization indicated that SiHDA9 interacts with SiHAT3.1 and SiHDA19 to form a repressor complex. SiHDA9 might be recruited through the SiHAT3.1 recognition sequence onto the upstream of dehydration-responsive genes to decrease H3K9 acetylation levels. The silencing of SiHDA9 resulted in the up-regulation of crucial genes, namely, SiRAB18, SiRAP2.4, SiP5CS2, SiRD22, SiPIP1;4, and SiLHCB2.3, which imparted dehydration tolerance in the sensitive cultivar (IC41). Overall, the study provides mechanistic insights into SiHDA9-mediated regulation of dehydration stress response in foxtail millet.
Drought is a major environmental factor that limits agricultural crop productivity and threatens food security. Foxtail millet is a model crop with excellent abiotic stress tolerance and is consequently an important subject for obtaining a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying plant responses to drought and recovery. Here the physiological and proteomic responses of foxtail millet (cultivar Yugu1) leaves and roots to drought treatments and recovery were evaluated. Drought-treated foxtail millet exhibited increased relative electrolyte leakage and decreased relative water content and chlorophyll content compared to control and rewatering plants. A global analysis of protein profiles was evaluated for drought-treated and recovery treatment leaves and roots. We also identified differentially abundant proteins in drought and recovery groups, enabling comparisons between leaf and root tissue responses to the conditions. The principal component analysis suggested a clear distinction between leaf and root proteomes for the drought-treated and recovery treatment plants. Gene Ontology enrichment and co-expression analyses indicated that the biological responses of leaves differed from those in roots after drought and drought recovery. These results provide new insights and data resources to investigate the molecular basis of tissue-specific functional responses of foxtail millet during drought and recovery, thereby significantly informing crop breeding.
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica), a vital drought-resistant crop, plays a significant role in ensuring food and nutritional security. However, its drought resistance mechanism is not fully understood. N
Salinity stress is a major threat to crop growth and productivity. Millets are stress-tolerant crops that can withstand the environmental constraints. Foxtail millet is widely recognized as a drought and salinity-tolerant crop owing to its efficient ROS scavenging mechanism. Ascorbate peroxidase (APX) is one of the reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging enzymes that leads to hydrogen peroxide (H
Dirigent (DIR) proteins play essential roles in regulating plant growth and development, as well as enhancing resistance to abiotic and biotic stresses. However, the whole-genome identification and expression profiling analysis of
In flowering plants, C4 photosynthesis is superior to C3 type in carbon fixation efficiency and adaptation to extreme environmental conditions, but the mechanisms behind the assembly of C4 machinery remain elusive. This study attempts to dissect the evolutionary divergence from C3 to C4 photosynthesis in five photosynthetic model plants from the grass family, using a combined comparative transcriptomics and deep learning technology. By examining and comparing gene expression levels in bundle sheath and mesophyll cells of five model plants, we identified 16 differentially expressed signature genes showing cell-specific expression patterns in C3 and C4 plants. Among them, two showed distinctively opposite cell-specific expression patterns in C3 vs. C4 plants (named as FOGs). The in silico physicochemical analysis of the two FOGs illustrated that C3 homologous proteins of LHCA6 had low and stable pI values of ~6, while the pI values of LHCA6 homologs increased drastically in C4 plants
Enhancing the absorption and utilization of phosphorus by crops is an important aim for ensuring food security worldwide. However, the gene regulatory network underlying phosphorus use in foxtail millet remains unclear. In this study, the molecular mechanism underlying low-phosphorus (LP) responsiveness in foxtail millet was evaluated using a comparative transcriptome analysis. LP reduced the chlorophyll content in shoots, increased the anthocyanin content in roots, and up-regulated purple acid phosphatase and phytase activities as well as antioxidant systems (CAT, POD, and SOD). Finally, 13 differentially expressed genes related to LP response were identified and verified using transcriptomic data and qRT-PCR. Two gene co-expression network modules related to phosphorus responsiveness were positively correlated with POD, CAT, and PAPs. Of these,
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade pathway is a highly conserved plant cell signaling pathway that plays an important role in plant growth and development and stress response. Currently, MAPK cascade genes have been identified and reported in a variety of plants including
Nitrate is the main form of inorganic nitrogen that crop absorbs, and nitrate transporter 2 (NRT2) is a high affinity transporter using nitrate as a specific substrate. When the available nitrate is limited, the high affinity transport systems are activated and play an important role in the process of nitrate absorption and transport. Most NRT2 cannot transport nitrates alone and require the assistance of a helper protein belonging to nitrate assimilation related family (NAR2) to complete the absorption or transport of nitrates. Crop nitrogen utilization efficiency is affected by environmental conditions, and there are differences between varieties, so it is of great significance to develop varieties with high nitrogen utilization efficiency.
Abscission is predetermined in specialized cell layers called the abscission zone (AZ) and activated by developmental or environmental signals. In the grass family, most identified AZ genes regulate AZ anatomy, which differs among lineages. A YABBY transcription factor, SHATTERING1 (SH1), is a domestication gene regulating abscission in multiple cereals, including rice and Setaria. In rice, SH1 inhibits lignification specifically in the AZ. However, the AZ of Setaria is nonlignified throughout, raising the question of how SH1 functions in species without lignification. Crispr-Cas9 knockout mutants of SH1 were generated in Setaria viridis and characterized with histology, cell wall and auxin immunofluorescence, transmission electron microscopy, hormonal treatment and RNA-Seq analysis. The sh1 mutant lacks shattering, as expected. No differences in cell anatomy or cell wall components including lignin were observed between sh1 and the wild-type (WT) until abscission occurs. Chloroplasts degenerated in the AZ of WT before abscission, but degeneration was suppressed by auxin treatment. Auxin distribution and expression of auxin-related genes differed between WT and sh1, with the signal of an antibody to auxin detected in the sh1 chloroplast. SH1 in Setaria is required for activation of abscission through auxin signaling, which is not reported in other grass species.
Low-temperature stress limits the growth and development of foxtail millet. Freezing stress caused by sudden temperature drops, such as late-spring coldness, often occurs in the seedling stage of foxtail millet. However, the ability and coping strategies of foxtail millet to cope with such stress are not clear. In the present study, we analyzed the self-regulatory mechanisms of freezing stress in foxtail millet. We conducted a physiological study on foxtail millet leaves at -4 °C for seven different durations (0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 h). Longer freezing time increased cell-membrane damage, relative conductance, and malondialdehyde content. This led to osmotic stress in the leaves, which triggered an increase in free proline, soluble sugar, and soluble protein contents. The increases in these substances helped to reduce the damage caused by stress. The activities of superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, and catalase increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) content. The optimal time point for the response to freezing stress was 8 h after exposure. The transcriptome analysis of samples held for 8 h at -4 °C revealed 6862 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), among which the majority are implicated in various pathways, including the starch and sucrose metabolic pathways, antioxidant enzyme pathways, brassinolide (BR) signaling pathway, and transcription factors, according to Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment. We investigated possible crosstalk between BR signals and other pathways and found that BR signaling molecules were induced in response to freezing stress. The beta-amylase (BAM) starch hydrolase signal was enhanced by the BR signal, resulting in the accelerated degradation of starch and the formation of sugars, which served as emerging ROS scavengers and osmoregulators to resist freezing stress. In conclusion, crosstalk between BR signal transduction, and both starch and sucrose metabolism under freezing stress provides a new perspective for improving freezing resistance in foxtail millet.
Plant genomes encode many receptor-like kinases (RLKs) that localize to the cell surface and perceive a wide variety of environmental cues to initiate downstream signaling cascades. Whether these RLKs participate in dehydration stress signaling in plants is largely unknown. DROOPY LEAF1 (DPY1), a leucine-rich repeat (LRR)-RLK, was recently shown to regulate plant architecture by orchestrating early brassinosteroid signaling in foxtail millet (Setaria italica). Here, we show that DPY1 is essential for the acclimation of foxtail millet to drought stress. DPY1 can be phosphorylated and activated in response to osmotic stress and is required for more than half of osmotic stress-induced global phosphorylation events, including the phosphorylation of sucrose nonfermenting kinase 2s (SnRK2s), the central kinases involved in osmotic stress. DPY1 acts upstream of STRESS-ACTIVATED PROTEIN KINASE 6 (SAPK6, a subclass I SnRK2) and is required for full SAPK6 activation, thereby allowing regulation of downstream genes to mount a response against drought stress. These signaling events are largely independent of DPY1-mediated brassinosteroid signaling. The DPY1-SAPK6 module is specific to seed plants and is absent in ancestral nonseed plants. Our findings reveal a dehydration stress-activated RLK that plays an indispensable role in osmotic stress signaling and mediates SnRK2 activation at the cell surface.
The cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (CYP450) are the largest enzyme family in plant metabolism and widely involved in the biosynthesis of primary and secondary metabolites. Foxtail millet (
A gene family refers to a group of genes that share a common ancestry and encode proteins or RNA molecules with similar functions or structural features. Gene families play a crucial role in determining the traits of plants and can be utilized to develop new crop varieties. Therefore, a comprehensive database of gene family is significant for gaining deep insight into crops. To address this need, we have developed CropGF (https://bis.zju.edu.cn/cropgf), a comprehensive visual platform that encompasses six important crops (rice, wheat, maize, barley, sorghum and foxtail millet) and one model plant (Arabidopsis), as well as genomics, transcriptomics and proteomics data for gene family mining and analysis, covering a total of 314 611 genes and 4399 types of domains. CropGF provides a versatile search system that allows for the identification of gene families and their members in a single crop or multiple crops. Users can customize their search based on gene family domains and/or homology using keywords or BLAST. To enhance usability, we have collected the corresponding ID information from various public databases for both genes and domains. Furthermore, CropGF comprises numerous downstream analysis modules, such as ka/ks analysis, phylogenetic tree construction, subcellular localization analysis and more. These visually-displayed modules provide intuitive insights into gene expression patterns, gene family expansion and functional relationships across different molecular levels and different species. We believe that CropGF will be a valuable resource for deep mining and analysis in future studies of crop gene families. Database URL https://bis.zju.edu.cn/cropgf.
Plant malectin/malectin-like receptor-like kinases (MRLKs) play crucial roles throughout the life course of plants. Here, we identified 23 SiMRLK genes from foxtail millet. All the SiMRLK genes were named according to the chromosomal distribution of the
Setaria italica (foxtail millet), a founder crop of East Asian agriculture, is a model plant for C4 photosynthesis and developing approaches to adaptive breeding across multiple climates. Here we established the Setaria pan-genome by assembling 110 representative genomes from a worldwide collection. The pan-genome is composed of 73,528 gene families, of which 23.8%, 42.9%, 29.4% and 3.9% are core, soft core, dispensable and private genes, respectively; 202,884 nonredundant structural variants were also detected. The characterization of pan-genomic variants suggests their importance during foxtail millet domestication and improvement, as exemplified by the identification of the yield gene SiGW3, where a 366-bp presence/absence promoter variant accompanies gene expression variation. We developed a graph-based genome and performed large-scale genetic studies for 68 traits across 13 environments, identifying potential genes for millet improvement at different geographic sites. These can be used in marker-assisted breeding, genomic selection and genome editing to accelerate crop improvement under different climatic conditions.
CRISPR/Cas-based transcriptional activators have been developed to induce gene expression in eukaryotic and prokaryotic organisms. The main advantages of CRISPR/Cas-based systems is that they can achieve high levels of transcriptional activation and are very easy to program via pairing between the guide RNA and the DNA target strand. SunTag is a second-generation system that activates transcription by recruiting multiple copies of an activation domain (AD) to its target promoters. SunTag is a strong activator; however, in some species it is difficult to stably express. To overcome this problem, we designed MoonTag, a new activator that works on the same basic principle as SunTag, but whose components are better tolerated when stably expressed in transgenic plants. We demonstrate that MoonTag is capable of inducing high levels of transcription in all plants tested. In Setaria, MoonTag is capable of inducing high levels of transcription of reporter genes as well as of endogenous genes. More important, MoonTag components are expressed in transgenic plants to high levels without any deleterious effects. MoonTag is also able to efficiently activate genes in eudicotyledonous species such as Arabidopsis and tomato. Finally, we show that MoonTag activation is functional across a range of temperatures, which is promising for potential field applications.
Understanding the molecular mechanisms that regulate grain yield is important for improving agricultural productivity. Protein ubiquitination controls various aspects of plant growth but lacks understanding on how E2-E3 enzyme pairs impact grain yield in major crops. Here, we identified a RING-type E3 ligase SGD1 and its E2 partner SiUBC32 responsible for grain yield control in Setaria italica. The conserved role of SGD1 was observed in wheat, maize, and rice. Furthermore, SGD1 ubiquitinates the brassinosteroid receptor BRI1, stabilizing it and promoting plant growth. Overexpression of an elite SGD1 haplotype improved grain yield by about 12.8% per plant, and promote complex biological processes such as protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum, stress responses, photosystem stabilization, and nitrogen metabolism. Our research not only identifies the SiUBC32-SGD1-BRI1 genetic module that contributes to grain yield improvement but also provides a strategy for exploring key genes controlling important traits in Poaceae crops using the Setaria model system.
Developing innovative and effective herbicides is of utmost importance since weed management has become a worldwide agricultural production concern, resulting in severe economic losses every year. In this study, a series of new pyrimidinedione compounds were developed via combination of pyrimidinediones with N-phenylacetamide moiety. The herbicidal activity test (37.5-150 g of ai/ha) indicated that most of the new derivatives exhibited excellent herbicidal activity against dicotyledonous weeds, but less against grasses. Among them, compound 34 was identified as the best postemergence herbicidal activities against six species of weeds (Amaranthus retrof lexus, AR; Abutilon theophrasti, AT; Veronica polita, VP; Echinochloa crusgalli, EC; Digitaria sanguinalis, DS; Setaria viridis, SV), which were comparable to the commercial control agent saflufenacil (≥90%). The protoporphyrinogen oxidase (PPO; EC. 1.3.3.4) activity experiment suggested that compound 34 could significantly reduce the PPO content in weeds, the relative expression levels of the PPO gene were verified by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and the results were consistent with the trend of the enzyme activity data. Molecular docking showed that compound 34 could occupy the PPO enzyme catalytic substrate pocket, which played an excellent inhibitory effect on the activity of receptor protein. Meanwhile, the tolerance of compound 34 to cotton was better than that of the commercial agent saflufenacil at 150 g of ai/ha. Thus, compound 34 exhibits the potential to be a new PPO herbicide for weed control in cotton fields. This study provided a basis for the subsequent structural modification and mechanism research of pyrimidinedione derivatives.
Valine-glutamine (VQ) motif-containing proteins are transcriptional regulatory cofactors that play critical roles in plant growth and response to biotic and abiotic stresses. However, information on the
Different plant species within the grasses were parallel targets of domestication, giving rise to crops with distinct evolutionary histories and traits
C3 and C4 grasses directly and indirectly provide the vast majority of calories to the human diet, yet our understanding of the molecular mechanisms driving photosynthetic productivity in grasses is largely unexplored. Ground meristem cells divide to form mesophyll or vascular initial cells early in leaf development in C3 and C4 grasses. Here we define a genetic circuit composed of SHORT ROOT (SHR), INDETERMINATE DOMAIN (IDD), and PIN-FORMED (PIN) family members that specifies vascular identify and ground cell proliferation in leaves of both C3 and C4 grasses. Ectopic expression and loss-of-function mutant studies of SHR paralogs in the C3 plant Oryza sativa (rice) and the C4 plant Setaria viridis (green millet) revealed the roles of these genes in both minor vein formation and ground cell differentiation. Genetic and in vitro studies further suggested that SHR regulates this process through its interactions with IDD12 and 13. We also revealed direct interactions of these IDD proteins with a putative regulatory element within the auxin transporter gene PIN5c. Collectively, these findings indicate that a SHR-IDD regulatory circuit mediates auxin transport by negatively regulating PIN expression to modulate minor vein patterning in the grasses.
The Heat Shock Factor (HSF) transcription factor family is a central and required component of plant heat stress responses and acquired thermotolerance. The HSF family has dramatically expanded in plant lineages, often including a repertoire of 20 or more genes. Here we assess and compare the composition, heat responsiveness, and chromatin profiles of the HSF families in maize and
Early maturity is an important agronomic trait in most crops, because it can solve the problem of planting in stubble for multiple cropping as well as make full use of light and temperature resources in alpine regions, thereby avoiding damage from low temperatures in the early growth period and early frost damage in the late growth period to improve crop yield and quality. The expression of genes that determine flowering affects flowering time, which directly affects crop maturity and indirectly affects crop yield and quality. Therefore, it is important to analyze the regulatory network of flowering for the cultivation of early-maturing varieties. Foxtail millet (
Plant-specific lateral organ boundaries domain (LBD) proteins play important roles in plant growth and development. Foxtail millet (
This paper sheds light on the evolution and expression patterns of MADS genes in Setaria and Panicum virgatum. SiMADS51 and SiMADS64 maybe involved in the ABA-dependent pathway of drought response. The MADS gene family is a key regulatory factor family that controls growth, reproduction, and response to abiotic stress in plants. However, the molecular evolution of this family is rarely reported. Here, a total of 265 MADS genes were identified in Setaria italica (foxtail millet), Setaria viridis (green millet), and Panicum virgatum (switchgrass) and analyzed by bioinformatics, including physicochemical characteristics, subcellular localization, chromosomal position and duplicate, motif distribution, genetic structure, genetic evolvement, and expression patterns. Phylogenetic analysis was used to categorize these genes into M and MIKC types. The distribution of motifs and gene structure were similar for the corresponding types. According to a collinearity study, the MADS genes have been mostly conserved during evolution. The principal cause of their expansion is segmental duplication. However, the MADS gene family tends to shrink in foxtail millet, green millet, and switchgrass. The MADS genes were subjected to purifying selection, but several positive selection sites were also identified in three species. And most of the promoters of MADS genes contain cis-elements related to stress and hormonal response. RNA-seq and quantitative Real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis also were examined. SiMADS genes expression levels are considerably changed in reaction to various treatments, following qRT-PCR analysis. This sheds fresh light on the evolution and expansion of the MADS family in foxtail millet, green millet, and switchgrass, and lays the foundation for further research on their functions.
The accumulation of fragmented extracellular DNA reduces conspecific seed germination and plantlet growth in a concentration-dependent manner. This self-DNA inhibition was repeatedly reported, but the underlying mechanisms are not fully clarified. We investigated the species-specificity of self-DNA inhibition in cultivated vs. weed congeneric species (respectively,
Drought is a major limiting factor affecting grain production. Drought-tolerant crop varieties are required to ensure future grain production. Here, 5597 DEGs were identified using transcriptome data before and after drought stress in foxtail millet (
Compared with traditional staple crops, foxtail millet grain is rich in nutrition and beneficial to human health. Foxtail millet is also tolerance to various abiotic stresses, including drought, making it a good plant for growing in barren land. The study on the composition of metabolites and its dynamics changes during grain development is helpful to understand the process of foxtail millet grain formation. In our study, metabolic and transcriptional analysis were used to uncover the metabolic processes that could influence grain filling in foxtail millet. A total of 2104 known metabolites, belonging to 14 categories, were identified during grain filling. Functional analysis of DAMs and DEGs revealed a stage-specific metabolic properties in foxtail millet grain filling. Some important metabolic processes, such as flavonoid biosynthesis, glutathione metabolism, linoleic acid metabolism, starch and sucrose metabolism and valine, leucine and isoleucine biosynthesis were co-mapped for DEGs and DAMs. Thus, we constructed a gene-metabolite regulatory network of these metabolic pathways to explain their potential functions during grain filling. Our study showed the important metabolic processes during grain filling and focused on the dynamic changes of related metabolites and genes at different stages, which provided a reference for us to better understand and improve foxtail millet grain development and yield.
CRISPR/Cas-based transcriptional activators have been developed to induce gene expression in eukaryotic and prokaryotic organisms. The main advantages of CRISPR-Cas based systems is that they can achieve high levels of transcriptional activation and are very easy to program via pairing between the guide RNA and the DNA target strand. SunTag is a second-generation system that activates transcription by recruiting multiple copies of an activation domain (AD) to its target promoters. SunTag is a strong activator; however, in some species it is difficult to stably express. To overcome this problem, we designed MoonTag, a new activator that worked on the same basic principle as SunTag, but whose components are better tolerated when stably expressed in transgenic plants. We demonstrate that MoonTag is capable of inducing high levels of transcription in all plants tested. In Setaria, MoonTag is capable of inducing high levels of transcription of reporter genes as well as of endogenous genes. More important, MoonTag components are expressed in transgenic plants to high levels without any deleterious effects. MoonTag is also able to efficiently activate genes in eudicotyledonous species such as Arabidopsis and tomato. Finally, we show that MoonTag activation is functional across a range of temperatures, which is promising for potential field applications.
Nitrogen fertilizers significantly increase crop yield; however, the negative impact of excessive nitrogen use on the environment and soil requires urgent attention. Improving crop nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) is crucial to increase yields and protect the environment. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.), a gramineous crop with significant tolerance to barren croplands, is an ideal model crop for studying abiotic stress resistance in gramineous crops. However, knowledge of the regulatory network for NUE in foxtail millet is fragmentary. Herein, we identified an R2R3-like MYB transcription factor in foxtail millet, SiMYB30, which belongs to MYB subfamily 17. The expression of SiMYB30 is responsive to low nitrogen (LN) concentration. Compared with wildtype Kitaake, seedlings of rice lines overexpressing SiMYB30 showed significantly increased shoot fresh and dry weights, plant height, and root area under LN treatment indoors. Consistently, overexpression of SiMYB30 in field experiments significantly increased grain and stem nitrogen contents, grain yield per plant, and stem weight in rice. Furthermore, qRT-PCR revealed that SiMYB30 effectively activated the expression of nitrogen uptake-related genes-OsNRT1, OsNRT1.1B, and OsNPF2.4-and nitrogen assimilation-related genes-OsGOGAT1, OsGOGAT2, and OsNIA2. Notably, SiMYB30 directly bound to the promoter of OsGOGAT2 and regulated its expression. These results highlight the novel and pivotal role of SiMYB30 in improving crop NUE.
In plants, autophagy plays an important role in regulating intracellular degradation and amino acid recycling in response to nutrient starvation, senescence, and other environmental stresses. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) shows strong resistance to various abiotic stresses; however, current understanding of the regulation network of abiotic stress resistance in foxtail millet remains limited. In this study, we aimed to determine the autophagy-related gene SiATG8a in foxtail millet. We found that SiATG8a was mainly expressed in the stem and was induced by low-phosphorus (LP) stress. Overexpression of SiATG8a in wheat (Triticum aestivum) significantly increased the grain yield and spike number per m
R2R3-MYB transcription factors play an important role in the synthesis of phenylpropanoid-derived compounds, which in turn provide salt tolerance in plant. In this study, we found that the expression of foxtail millet R2R3-MYB factor SiMYB16 can be induced by salt and drought. SiMYB16 is localized in the nucleus and acts as a transcriptional activator. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that SiMYB16 belongs to the R2R3-MYB transcription factor family subgroup 24. Transgenic rice expressing SiMYB16 (OX16) had a higher survival rate, lower malondialdehyde content, and heavier fresh weight compared with type (WT) under salt stress conditions. The transgenic plants also had a higher germination rate in salt treatment conditions and higher yield in the field compared with wild-type plants. Transcriptome analysis revealed that the up-regulated differential expression genes in the transgenic rice were mainly involved in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, fatty acid elongation, phenylalanine metabolism, and flavonoid biosynthesis pathways. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis also showed that the genes encoding the major enzymes in the lignin and suberin biosynthesis pathways had higher expression level in SiMYB16 transgenic plants. Correspondingly, the content of flavonoid and lignin, and the activity of fatty acid synthase increased in SiMYB16 transgenic rice compared with wild-type plants under salt stress treatment. These results indicate that SiMYB16 gene can enhance plant salt tolerance by regulating the biosynthesis of lignin and suberin.
Auxin performs important functions in plant growth and development processes, as well as abiotic stress. Small auxin-up RNA (SAUR) is the largest gene family of auxin-responsive factors. However, the knowledge of the SAUR gene family in foxtail millet is largely obscure. In the current study, 72 SiSAUR genes were identified and renamed according to their chromosomal distribution in the foxtail millet genome. These SiSAUR genes were unevenly distributed on nine chromosomes and were classified into three groups through phylogenetic tree analysis. Most of the SiSAUR members from the same group showed similar gene structure and motif composition characteristics. Analysis of cis-acting elements showed that many hormone and stress response elements were identified in the promoter region of SiSAURs. Gene replication analysis revealed that many SiSAUR genes were derived from gene duplication events. We also found that the expression of 10 SiSAURs was induced by abiotic stress and exogenous hormones, which indicated that SiSAUR genes may participated in complex physiological processes. Overall, these results will be valuable for further studies on the biological role of SAUR genes in foxtail development and response to stress conditions and may shed light on the improvement of the genetic breeding of foxtail millet.
The highly conserved tubby-like proteins (TLPs) play key roles in animal neuronal development and plant growth. The abiotic stress tolerance function of TLPs has been widely explored in plants, however, little is known about comparative studies of TLPs within crops. Bioinformatic identification, phylogenetic analysis, Cis-element analysis, expression analysis, Cis-element analysis, expression analysis and so on were explored to analysis the TLP gene family of multiple crops. In this study, a comprehensive analysis of Combined yeast two-hybrid system and pull down assay, we suggested that the
Nitrogen (N) is essential for plant growth and yield production and can be taken up from soil in the form of nitrate or peptides. The Bioinformatic analysis was used to identify and characterize the NPF genes in Setaria. RNA-seq was employed to analyze time-series low nitrate stress response of the SiNPF genes. Yeast and Arabidopsis mutant complementation were used to test the nitrate transport ability of SiNRT1.1B1 and SiNRT1.1B2. We identified 92 and 88 putative Taken together, our study provides a comprehensive understanding of the
Although several aspects of lignin metabolism have been extensively characterized, the mechanism(s) by which lignin monomers are transported across the plasma membrane remains largely unknown. Biochemical, proteomic, expression and co-expression analyses from several plant species support the involvement of active transporters, mainly those belonging to the ABC superfamily. Here, we report on the genome-wide characterization of the ABCG gene subfamily in the model C4 grass Setaria viridis and further identification of the members potentially involved in monolignol transport. A total of 48 genes encoding SvABCGs were found in the S. viridis genome, from which 21 SvABCGs were classified as full-size transporters and 27 as half-size transporters. Comprehensive analysis of the ABCG subfamily in S. viridis based on expression and co-expression analyses support a role for SvABCG17 in monolignol transport: (i) SvABCG17 is orthologous to AtABCG29, a monolignol transporter in Arabidopsis thaliana; (ii) SvABCG17 displays a similar expression profile to that of lignin biosynthetic genes in a set of different S. viridis tissues and along the elongating internode; (iii) SvABCG17 is highly co-expressed with lignin-related genes in a public transcriptomic database; (iv) SvABCG17displays particularly high expression in the top of the S. viridis elongating internode, a tissue undergoing active lignification; (v) SvABCG17 mRNA localization coincides with the histochemical pattern of lignin deposition; and (vi) the promoter of SvABCG17 is activated by secondary cell wall-associated transcription factors, especially by lignin-specific activators of the MYB family. Further studies might reveal further aspects of this potential monolignol transporter, including its real substrate specificity and whether it works redundantly with other ABC members during S. viridis lignification.
Foxtail millet is commonly used as a food and forage grass. ERECTA (ER) is a receptor-like kinase that can improve plant biomass and stress resistance. The sorghum
N responsiveness is the capacity to perceive and induce morpho-physiological adaptation to external and internal Nitrogen (N). Crop productivity is propelled by N fertilizer and requires the breeding/selection of cultivars with intrinsically high N responsiveness. This trait has many advantages in being more meaningful in commercial/environmental context, facilitating in-season N management and not being inversely correlated with N availability over processes regulating NUE. Current lack of its understanding at the physio-genetic basis is an impediment to select for cultivars with a predictably high N response. To dissect physio-genetic basis of N responsiveness in 142 diverse population of foxtail millet, Setaria italica (L.) by employing contrasting N fertilizer nutrition regimes. We phenotyped S. italica accessions for major yield related traits under low (N10, N25) and optimal (N100) growth conditions and genotyped them to subsequently perform a genome-wide association study to identify genetic loci associated with nitrogen responsiveness trait. Groups of accessions showing contrasting trait performance and allelic forms of specific linked genetic loci (showing haplotypes) were further accessed for N dependent transcript abundances of their proximal genes. Our study show that N dependent yield rise in S. italica is driven by grain number whose responsiveness to N availability is genetically underlined. We identify 22 unique SNP loci strongly associated with this trait out of which six exhibit haplotypes and consistent allelic variation between lines with contrasting N dependent grain number response and panicle architectures. Furthermore, differential transcript abundances of specific genes proximally linked to these SNPs in same lines is indicative of their N dependence in a genotype specific manner. The study demonstrates the value/ potential of N responsiveness as a selection trait and identifies key genetic components underlying the trait in S. italica. This has major implications for improving crop N sustainability and food security.
Grass inflorescences support floral structures that each bear a single grain, where variation in branch architecture directly impacts yield. The maize (Zea mays) RAMOSA1 (ZmRA1) transcription factor acts as a key regulator of inflorescence development by imposing branch meristem determinacy. Here, we show RA1 transcripts accumulate in boundary domains adjacent to spikelet meristems in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor, Sb) and green millet (Setaria viridis, Sv) inflorescences similar as in the developing maize tassel and ear. To evaluate the functional conservation of syntenic RA1 orthologs and promoter cis sequences in maize, sorghum, and setaria, we utilized interspecies gene transfer and assayed genetic complementation in a common inbred background by quantifying recovery of normal branching in highly ramified ra1-R mutants. A ZmRA1 transgene that includes endogenous upstream and downstream flanking sequences recovered normal tassel and ear branching in ra1-R. Interspecies expression of two transgene variants of the SbRA1 locus, modeled as the entire endogenous tandem duplication or just the nonframeshifted downstream copy, complemented ra1-R branching defects and induced unusual fasciation and branch patterns. The SvRA1 locus lacks conserved, upstream noncoding cis sequences found in maize and sorghum; interspecies expression of a SvRA1 transgene did not or only partially recovered normal inflorescence forms. Driving expression of the SvRA1 coding region by the ZmRA1 upstream region, however, recovered normal inflorescence morphology in ra1-R. These data leveraging interspecies gene transfer suggest that cis-encoded temporal regulation of RA1 expression is a key factor in modulating branch meristem determinacy that ultimately impacts grass inflorescence architecture.
Panicle traits are important factors affecting yield, and their improvement has long been a critical goal in foxtail millet breeding. In order to understand the genetic basis of panicle formation, a large-scale genome-wide association study (GWAS) was performed in this study for six panicle-related traits based on 706,646 high-polymorphism SNP loci in 407 accessions. As a result, 87 quantitative trait loci (QTL) regions with a physical distance of less than 100 kb were detected to be associated with these traits in three environments. Among them, 27 core regions were stably detected in at least two environments. Based on rice-foxtail millet homologous comparison, expression, and haplotype analysis, 27 high-confidence candidate genes in the QTL regions, such as
Downy mildew of foxtail millet, which is caused by the biotrophic oomycete Sclerospora graminicola (Sacc.) Schroeter, is one of the most disruptive diseases. The foxtail millet-S. graminicola interaction is largely unexplored. Transcriptome sequencing technology can help to reveal the interaction mechanism between foxtail millet and its pathogens. Transmission electron microscopy observations of leaves infected with S. graminicola showed that the structures of organelles in the host cells gradually became deformed and damaged, or even disappeared from the 3- to 7-leaf stages. However, organelles in the leaves of resistant variety were rarely damaged. Moreover, the activities of seven cell wall degrading enzymes in resistant and susceptible varieties were also quite different after pathogen induction and most of enzymes activities were significantly higher in the susceptible variety JG21 than in the resistant variety G1 at all stages. Subsequently, we compared the transcriptional profiles between the G1 and JG21 in response to S. graminicola infection at 3-, 5-, and 7-leaf stages using RNA-Seq technology. A total of 473 and 1433 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the resistant and susceptible varieties, respectively. The pathway analysis of the DEGs showed that the highly enriched categories were related to glutathione metabolism, plant hormone signalling, phenylalanine metabolism, and cutin, suberin and wax biosynthesis. Some defence-related genes were also revealed in the DEGs, including leucine-rich protein kinase, Ser/Thr protein kinase, peroxidase, cell wall degrading enzymes, laccases and auxin response genes. Our results also confirmed the linkage of transcriptomic data with qRT-PCR data. In particular, LRR protein kinase encoded by Seita.8G131800, Ser/Thr protein kinase encoded by Seita.2G024900 and Seita. 2G024800, which have played an essential resistant role during the infection by S. graminicola. Transcriptome sequencing revealed that host resistance to S. graminicola was likely due to the activation of defence-related genes, such as leucine-rich protein kinase and Ser/Thr protein kinase. Our study identified pathways and genes that contribute to the understanding of the interaction between foxtail millet and S. graminicola at the transcriptomic level. The results will help us better understand the resistance mechanism of foxtail millet against S. graminicola.
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) is a millet species with high tolerance to stressful environments. Plant non-specific lipid transfer proteins (nsLTPs) are a kind of small, basic proteins involved in many biological processes. So far, the genome of S. italica has been fully sequenced, and a comprehensive understanding of the evolution and expression of the nsLTP family is still lacking in foxtail millet. Forty-five nsLTP genes were identified in S. italica and clustered into 5 subfamilies except three single genes (SinsLTP38, SinsLTP7, and SinsLTP44). The proportion of SinsLTPs was different in each subfamily, and members within the same subgroup shared conserved exon-intron structures. Besides, 5 SinsLTP duplication events were investigated. Both tandem and segmental duplication contributed to nsLTP expansion in S. italica, and the duplicated SinsLTPs had mainly undergone purifying selection pressure, which suggested that the function of the duplicated SinsLTPs might not diverge much. Moreover, we identified the nsLTP members in 5 other monocots, and 41, 13, 10, 4, and 1 orthologous gene pairs were identified between S. italica and S. viridis, S. bicolor, Z. mays, O. sativa, and B. distachyon, respectively. The functional divergence within the nsLTP orthologous genes might be limited. In addition, the tissue-specific expression patterns of the SinsLTPs were investigated, and the expression profiles of the SinsLTPs in response to abiotic stress were analyzed, all the 10 selected SinsLTPs were responsive to drought, salt, and cold stress. Among the selected SinsLTPs, 2 paired duplicated genes shared almost equivalent expression profiles, suggesting that these duplicated genes might retain some essential functions during subsequent evolution. The present study provided the first systematic analysis for the phylogenetic classification, conserved domain and gene structure, expansion pattern, and expression profile of the nsLTP family in S. italica. These findings could pave a way for further comparative genomic and evolution analysis of nsLTP family in foxtail millet and related monocots, and lay the foundation for the functional analysis of the nsLTPs in S. italica.
Water deficit is a major constraint for crops of economic importance in almost all agricultural regions. However, plants have an active defense system to adapt to these adverse conditions, acting in the reprogramming of gene expression responsible for encoding microRNAs (miRNAs). These miRNAs promote the regulation to the target gene expression by the post-transcriptional (PTGS) and transcriptional gene silencing (TGS), modulating several pathways including defense response to water deficit. The broader knowledge of the miRNA expression profile and its regulatory networks in response to water deficit can provide evidence for the development of new biotechnological tools for genetic improvement of several important crops. In this study, we used The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-022-01226-z.
Plant growth and development are dependent on complex regulatory networks to adapt various environments. The growth regulatory factor (GRF) and GRF-interacting factor (GIF) families have been shown to control growth in various plant species. There are growing evidences that The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-022-01234-z.
High temperature-induced crop failures are prominent nowadays in major staples, including rice, wheat, and maize; however, crops such as foxtail millet (Setaria italica) are resilient to temperature stress. In this study, a novel small heat shock protein of foxtail millet, SisHSP21.9, is identified and characterized for its role in conferring tolerance to high-temperature stress. SisHSP21.9 is a panicoid-specific gene, which is highly upregulated during high-temperature in leaves, and the protein is localized in the chloroplast. Its expression is directly regulated by heat shock factor, SiHSFA2e, during temperature stress. Further, overexpression of SiHSP21.9 in rice enhanced the survival of transgenics during high-temperature stress (> 80% survival frequency), and the transgenic lines showed improved plant architecture and overall grain yield. Compared to WT plants, transgenic lines maintained optimal photosynthesis rates with higher photosystem efficiencies at high temperatures, and this is conferred through protecting the components of photosystems, chlorophyll-binding proteins, and chloroplast-localized functional proteins by SisHSP21.9. Prolonged high-temperature stress showed minimal damage to chloroplast proteins resulting in comparatively lower yield loss (35-37%) in transgenic lines. Altogether, the study suggests that SisHSP21.9 is a potential candidate for designing thermotolerant crops for climate-resilient agriculture; however, further research is needed because tolerance to abiotic stresses is polygenic.
A stereo interplanting system with foxtail millet beneath chestnut trees is an effective planting method to raise the utilization of land in chestnut orchards, increase yields and improve quality of chestnut nuts. Consequently, exploration of genes involved in shade tolerance response in foxtail millet and breeding shade-tolerant varieties have become urgent issues. In this study, RNA-seq of leaf samples from two shade-tolerant varieties and three shade-intolerant varieties of foxtail millet at the booting stage was performed. Comparisons between the varieties revealed that 70 genes were commonly differentially expressed. Moreover, the ratio of net photosynthetic rate under shaded environment to that under light environment could be used as an indicator of shade tolerance. Subsequently, weighted gene co-expression network analysis was employed to construct a co-expression network and modules were correlated with this ratio. A total of 375 genes were identified as potentially relevant to shade tolerance, among which nine genes were also present in the 70 differentially expressed genes, which implied that they were good candidates for genes involved in shade tolerance. Our results provide valuable resources for elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying shade tolerance and will contribute to breeding of shade-tolerant foxtail millet that are adapted to the shaded environment under chestnut trees.
MicroRNAs play critical roles in growth, development and abiotic stress responses. SimR396d is a miRNA whose expression level is much higher in foxtail millet roots than other tissues. Whether SimR396d is involved in foxtail millet root growth and response to abiotic stress is still unknown. Here, we demonstrate that SimiR396d modulates both drought response and root growth in foxtail millet. The expression of SimiR396d is induced by PEG treatment. Overexpression of SimiR396d enhances drought tolerance and root length, while knockdown SimiR396d expression using target mimics of SimiR396d (MIM396) resulted in reduced drought tolerance and shortened root length. Furthermore, we identified and confirmed a plant-specific transcription factor, growth-regulating factor 1 (SiGRF1), as a direct target of SimiR396d. Overexpression of SiGRF1 in foxtail millet resulted in suppressed root growth and reduced sensitivity to drought stress. Moreover, ethylene signaling is necessary for SimiR396d and SiGRF1 to participate in the regulation of plant root growth. These results revealed a pivotal role of SimiR396d in drought tolerance and root growth in foxtail millet. SimiR396d-SiGRF1 regulatory module provides a strategy to improve drought-stress resistance of crop.
Thioredoxins (TRXs) are small-molecule proteins with redox activity that play very important roles in the growth, development, and stress resistance of plants. Foxtail millet (
Sulfate assimilation is an essential pathway of plant primary metabolism, regulated by the demand for reduced sulfur (S). The S-containing tripeptide glutathione (GSH) is the key signal for such regulation in Arabidopsis, but little is known about the conservation of these regulatory mechanisms beyond this model species. Using two model monocot species, C3 rice (Oryza sativa) and C4Setaria viridis, and feeding of cysteine or GSH, we aimed to find out how conserved are the regulatory mechanisms described for Arabidopsis in these species. We showed that while in principle the regulation is similar, there are many species-specific differences. For example, thiols supplied by the roots are translocated to the shoots in rice but remain in the roots of Setaria. Cysteine and GSH concentrations are highly correlated in Setaria, but not in rice. In both rice and Setaria, GSH seems to be the signal for demand-driven regulation of sulfate assimilation. Unexpectedly, we observed cysteine oxidation to sulfate in both species, a reaction that does not occur in Arabidopsis. This reaction is dependent on sulfite oxidase, but the enzyme(s) releasing sulfite from cysteine still need to be identified. Altogether our data reveal a number of unique features in the regulation of S metabolism in the monocot species and indicate the need for using multiple taxonomically distinct models to better understand the control of nutrient homeostasis, which is important for generating low-input crop varieties.
Anthocyanin is a natural pigment that has a functional role in plants to attract pollinating insects and is important in stress response. Foxtail millet (
Phytochromes play vital roles in the regulation of flowering time, but little is known in Panicoideae species, especially the C
Low temperature and end-of-day far-red (EOD-FR) light signaling are two key factors limiting plant production and geographical location worldwide. However, the transcriptional dynamics of EOD-FR light conditions during chilling stress remain poorly understood. Here, we performed a comparative RNA-Seq-based approach to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to EOD-FR and chilling stress in
Transcription factors (TFs) play important roles in plants. Among the major TFs, GATA plays a crucial role in plant development, growth, and stress responses. However, there have been few studies on the GATA gene family in foxtail millet (Setaria italica). The release of the foxtail millet reference genome presents an opportunity for the genome-wide characterization of these GATA genes. In this study, we identified 28 GATA genes in foxtail millet distributed on seven chromosomes. According to the classification method of GATA members in Arabidopsis, SiGATA was divided into four subfamilies, namely subfamilies I, II, III, and IV. Structural analysis of the SiGATA genes showed that subfamily III had more introns than other subfamilies, and a large number of cis-acting elements were abundant in the promoter region of the SiGATA genes. Three tandem duplications and five segmental duplications were found among SiGATA genes. Tissue-specific results showed that the SiGATA genes were mainly expressed in foxtail millet leaves, followed by peels and seeds. Many genes were significantly induced under the eight abiotic stresses, such as SiGATA10, SiGATA16, SiGATA18, and SiGATA25, which deserve further attention. Collectively, these findings will be helpful for further in-depth studies of the biological function of SiGATA, and will provide a reference for the future molecular breeding of foxtail millet.
Chinese chestnut is an economically important tree species whose yield and quality are seriously affected by red spider attack. Tannins is one of the most important class secondary metabolites in plants, and is closely associated with plant defense mechanisms against insect and herbivory. In our previous studies, it was revealed that several low-tannin foxtail millet varieties growing under the Chinese chestnut trees could attract red spiders to feed on their leaves and protect the chestnut trees from the infestation of red spiders, meanwhile, the growth and yield of foxtail millet plants themselves were not greatly affected. To identify genes related to leaf tannin content and selection of foxtail millet germplasm resources with low tannin content for interplanting with Chinese chestnut and preventing the red spider attack, the leaves of 4 varieties with different levels of tannin content were harvested for comparative transcriptome analysis. In total, 335 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. For acquisition of gene functions and biological pathways they involved in, gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses were performed, and several DEGs were found to possibly participate in the tannins biosynthesis pathway and transport processes of precursors. In addition, according to the PlantTFDB database, some transcription factors were predicted among the DEGs, suggesting their role in regulation of tannins biosynthesis pathway. Our results provide valuable gene resources for understanding the biosynthesis and regulation mechanisms of tannins in foxtail millet, and pave the way for speeding up the breeding of low-tannin varieties through marker-assisted selection, which could be utilized for interplanting with Chinese chestnut trees to confer protection against red spider attack.
Pearl millet is an important crop of the arid and semi-arid ecologies to sustain food and fodder production. The greater tolerance to drought stress attracts us to examine its cellular and molecular mechanisms via functional genomics approaches to augment the grain yield. Here, we studied the drought response of 48 inbreds representing four different maturity groups at the flowering stage. A set of 74 drought-responsive genes were separated into five major phylogenic groups belonging to eight functional groups, namely ABA signaling, hormone signaling, ion and osmotic homeostasis, TF-mediated regulation, molecular adaptation, signal transduction, physiological adaptation, detoxification, which were comprehensively studied. Among the conserved motifs of the drought-responsive genes, the protein kinases and
Foxtail millet [Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv.] does not show high yield and biomass compared with maize (Zea mays L.) although it is a C
Modification of histone acetylation is a ubiquitous and reversible process in eukaryotes and prokaryotes and plays crucial roles in the regulation of gene expression during plant development and stress responses. Histone acetylation is co-regulated by histone acetyltransferase (HAT) and histone deacetylase (HDAC). HAT plays an essential regulatory role in various growth and development processes by modifying the chromatin structure through interactions with other histone modifications and transcription factors in eukaryotic cells, affecting the transcription of genes. Comprehensive analyses of HAT genes have been performed in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. However, little information is available on the HAT genes in foxtail millet (Setaria italica [L.] P. Beauv). In this study, 24 HAT genes (SiHATs) were identified and divided into four groups with conserved gene structures via motif composition analysis. Phylogenetic analysis of the genes was performed to predict functional similarities between Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, and foxtail millet; 19 and 2 orthologous gene pairs were individually identified. Moreover, all identified HAT gene pairs likely underwent purified selection based on their non-synonymous/synonymous nucleotide substitutions. Using published transcriptome data, we found that SiHAT genes were preferentially expressed in some tissues and organs. Stress responses were also examined, and data showed that SiHAT gene transcription was influenced by drought, salt, low nitrogen, and low phosphorus stress, and that the expression of four SiHATs was altered as a result of infection by Sclerospora graminicola. Results indicated that histone acetylation may play an important role in plant growth and development and stress adaptations. These findings suggest that SiHATs play specific roles in the response to abiotic stress and viral infection. This study lays a foundation for further analysis of the biological functions of SiHATs in foxtail millet.
Nitrogen (N) deficiency is a primary limiting factor for crop production worldwide. Previously, we reported root system architectural modifications of hydroponically cultured foxtail millet [Setaria italica (L.) Beauv.] to facilitate N translocation under N limitation. Here, we investigated foxtail millet for its shoot adaptation to low N in terms of internal N regulation under hydroponic culture. The results of this study revealed that the shoot N and nitrate (NO
The plant hormones gibberellins (GAs) regulate plant growth and development and are closely related to the yield of cash crops. The GA oxidases (GAoxs), including the GA2ox, GA3ox, and GA20ox subfamilies, play pivotal roles in GAs' biosynthesis and metabolism, but their classification and evolutionary pattern in Gramineae crops remain unclear. We thus conducted a comparative genomic study of
The responsive patterns of phytochrome gene family members to photoperiod and abiotic stresses were comparatively analyzed and the favorable natural variation sites of these genes were identified. This would help understand the mechanism of phytochrome gene family in photoperiod-regulated growth and development and abiotic stress response. In addition, it may facilitate the molecular marker assisted selection of key traits in foxtail millet. In this study, we used RT-PCR to clone three phytochrome genes
Among the major transcription factors, SPL plays a crucial role in plant growth, development, and stress response. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica), as a C4 crop, is rich in nutrients and is beneficial to human health. However, research on the foxtail millet SPL (SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING-LIKE) gene family is limited. RESULTS: In this study, a total of 18 SPL genes were identified for the comprehensive analysis of the whole genome of foxtail millet. These SiSPL genes were divided into seven subfamilies (I, II, III, V, VI, VII, and VIII) according to the classification of the Arabidopsis thaliana SPL gene family. Structural analysis of the SiSPL genes showed that the number of introns in subfamilies I and II were much larger than others, and the promoter regions of SiSPL genes were rich in different cis-acting elements. Among the 18 SiSPL genes, nine genes had putative binding sites with foxtail millet miR156. No tandem duplication events were found between the SiSPL genes, but four pairs of segmental duplications were detected. The SiSPL genes expression were detected in different tissues, which was generally highly expressed in seeds development process, especially SiSPL6 and SiSPL16, which deserve further study. The results of the expression levels of SiSPL genes under eight types of abiotic stresses showed that many stress responsive genes, especially SiSPL9, SiSPL10, and SiSPL16, were highly expressed under multiple stresses, which deserves further attention. In this research, 18 SPL genes were identified in foxtail millet, and their phylogenetic relationships, gene structural features, duplication events, gene expression and potential roles in foxtail millet development were studied. The findings provide a new perspective for the mining of the excellent SiSPL gene and the molecular breeding of foxtail millet.
The mechanism underlying folate degradation in foxtail millet grains remains unclear. Here, we identified
Purple acid phosphatases belong to metallo-phosphatase family. Intracellular phosphatases are crucial for phosphorus (P) distribution in the cell and are highly induced in phosphorus-deprived conditions in the soil. Disparate PAP isoforms exist within discrete subcellular compartments in Setaria italica and their expression in P deprived conditions fosters phosphorus amelioration. We isolated the SiPAP18 gene and developed the homology SiPAP18 protein model based on the crystal structure of the Kidney bean PvPAP (PDB ID: 2QFP) as template (sequence similarity 42.7%) using Modeller 9.12 with adequate validation. Structure model analysis shows the significance of five conserved signatures with seven metal-paired amino acid residues during P-deprivation induced phosphorus amelioration.
Drought is one of the main environmental stresses that negatively impacts vegetative and reproductive yield. Water deficit responses are determined by the duration and intensity of the stress, which, together with plant genotype, will define the chances of plant survival. The metabolic adjustments in response to water deficit are complex and involve gene expression modulation regulated by DNA-binding proteins and epigenetic modifications. This last mechanism may also regulate the activity of transposable elements, which in turn impact the expression of nearby loci. Setaria italica plants submitted to five water deficit regimes were analyzed through a phenotypical approach, including growth, physiological, RNA-seq and sRNA-seq analyses. The results showed a progressive reduction in yield as a function of water deficit intensity associated with signaling pathway modulation and metabolic adjustments. We identified a group of loci that were consistently associated with drought responses, some of which were related to water deficit perception, signaling and regulation. Finally, an analysis of the transcriptome and sRNAome allowed us to identify genes putatively regulated by TE- and sRNA-related mechanisms and an intriguing positive correlation between transcript levels and sRNA accumulation in gene body regions. These findings shed light on the processes that allow S. italica to overcome drought and survive under water restrictive conditions.
Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CPKs) play an important role in plant regulation of growth and development, and in the responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. In the present study, we analyzed Moso bamboo (Phyllostachys edulis) CPK genes and their closely related five gene families (Brachypodium distachyon, Hordeum vulgare L., Oryza sativa, Setaria italica, and Zea mays) comprehensively, including phylogenetic relationships, gene structures, and synteny analysis. Thirty Moso bamboo CPKs were divided into four subgroups; in each subgroup, the constituent parts of gene structure were relatively conserved. Furthermore, analysis of expression profiles showed that most PheCPK genes are significantly upregulated under drought and cold stress, especially PheCPK1. Overexpression of PheCPK1 in Arabidopsis reduced plant tolerance to drought stress, as determined through physiological analyses of the relative water content, relative electrical leakage, and malondialdehyde content. It also activated the expressions of stress-related genes. In addition, overexpression of PheCPK1 in Arabidopsis exhibited significantly decreased reactive oxygen species (ROS)-scavenging ability. Taken together, these results suggest that PheCPK1 may act as a negative regulator involved in the drought stress responses.
The DOMAINS REARRANGED METHYLTRANSFERASEs (DRMs) are crucial for RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM) in plant species. Setaria viridis is a model monocot species with a relatively compact genome that has limited transposable element (TE) content. CRISPR-based genome editing approaches were used to create loss-of-function alleles for the two putative functional DRM genes in S. viridis to probe the role of RdDM. Double mutant (drm1ab) plants exhibit some morphological abnormalities but are fully viable. Whole-genome methylation profiling provided evidence for the widespread loss of methylation in CHH sequence contexts, particularly in regions with high CHH methylation in wild-type plants. Evidence was also found for the locus-specific loss of CG and CHG methylation, even in some regions that lack CHH methylation. Transcriptome profiling identified genes with altered expression in the drm1ab mutants. However, the majority of genes with high levels of CHH methylation directly surrounding the transcription start site or in nearby promoter regions in wild-type plants do not have altered expression in the drm1ab mutant, even when this methylation is lost, suggesting limited regulation of gene expression by RdDM. Detailed analysis of the expression of TEs identified several transposons that are transcriptionally activated in drm1ab mutants. These transposons are likely to require active RdDM for the maintenance of transcriptional repression.
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is rich in nutrients and extremely beneficial to human health. We identified and comprehensively analyzed 89 MADS-box genes in the foxtail millet genome. According to the classification of MADS-box genes in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, the SiMADS-box genes were divided into M-type (37) and MIKC-type (52). During evolution, the differentiation of MIKC-type MADS-box genes occurred before that of monocotyledons and dicotyledons. The SiMADS-box gene structure has undergone much differentiation, and the number of introns in the MIKC-type subfamily is much greater than that in the M-type subfamily. Analysis of gene duplication events revealed that MIKC-type MADS-box gene segmental duplication accounted for the vast majority of gene duplication events, and MIKC-type MADS-box genes played a major role in the amplification of SiMADS-box genes. Collinearity analysis showed highest collinearity between foxtail millet and maize MADS-box genes. Analysis of tissue-specific expression showed that SiMADS-box genes are highly expressed throughout the grain-filling process. Expression analysis of SiMADS-box genes under eight different abiotic stresses revealed many stress-tolerant genes, with induced expression of SiMADS33 and SiMADS78 under various stresses warranting further attention. Further, some SiMADS-box proteins may interact under external stress. This study provides insights for MADS-box gene mining and molecular breeding of foxtail millet in the future.
Directional transport of auxin is critical for inflorescence and floral development in flowering plants, but the role of auxin influx carriers (AUX1 proteins) has been largely overlooked. Taking advantage of available AUX1 mutants in green millet (Setaria viridis) and maize (Zea mays), we uncover previously unreported aspects of plant development that are affected by auxin influx, including higher order branches in the inflorescence, stigma branch number, glume (floral bract) development, and plant fertility. However, disruption of auxin flux does not affect all parts of the plant, with little obvious effect on inflorescence meristem size, time to flowering, and anther morphology. In double mutant studies in maize, disruptions of ZmAUX1 also affect vegetative development. A green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged construct of the Setaria AUX1 protein Sparse Panicle1 (SPP1) under its native promoter showed that SPP1 localizes to the plasma membrane of outer tissue layers in both roots and inflorescences, and accumulates specifically in inflorescence branch meristems, consistent with the mutant phenotype and expected auxin maxima. RNA-seq analysis indicated that most gene expression modules are conserved between mutant and wild-type plants, with only a few hundred genes differentially expressed in spp1 inflorescences. Using clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-Cas9 technology, we disrupted SPP1 and the other four AUX1 homologs in S. viridis. SPP1 has a larger effect on inflorescence development than the others, although all contribute to plant height, tiller formation, and leaf and root development. The AUX1 importers are thus not fully redundant in S. viridis. Our detailed phenotypic characterization plus a stable GFP-tagged line offer tools for future dissection of the function of auxin influx proteins.
Drought stress is a serious factor affecting crop growth and production worldwide. The circadian clock has been identified as key to improving regional adaptability of plants. However, our understanding of the contribution of the circadian clock to drought response and the impacts of drought stress on the circadian clock in plants is still limited. To explore the interactions between the circadian clock and drought stress, foxtail millet seedlings were treated with simulated drought (20% polyethylene glycol-6000) treatment starting at the day (DD) onset zeitgeber time 0 (ZT0, lights on) and at the night (DN) onset zeitgeber time 16 (ZT16, lights off). A high temporal-resolution transcriptomic investigation was performed using DD and DN samples collected at intervals of 2 or 4 h within a 24-h drought-treatment period. Overall, we identified 13 294 drought-responsive genes (DRGs). Among these DRGs, 7931 were common between DD and DN samples, 2638 were specific to DD, and 2725 were specific to DN. Additionally, we identified 1257 circadian genes, of which 67% were DRGs. Interestingly, with drought treatment starting at the day for 8, 12 or 16 h, the circadian phase shifted to 12 h. We also found that the circadian clock led to different day and night drought-responsive pathways. The identification of DRG_Clock (DRG and circadian clock) and DRG_NonClock (DRG and not circadian clock) genes provides a reference for selecting candidate drought resistance genes. Our work reveals the temporal drought-response process and crosstalk between drought stress and the circadian clock in foxtail millet.
The grains of foxtail millet are enriched in carotenoids, which endow this plant with a yellow color and extremely high nutritional value. However, the underlying molecular regulation mechanism and gene coexpression network remain unclear. The carotenoid species and content were detected by HPLC for two foxtail millet varieties at three panicle development stages. Based on a homologous sequence BLAST analysis, these genes related to carotenoid metabolism were identified from the foxtail millet genome database. The conserved protein domains, chromosome locations, gene structures and phylogenetic trees were analyzed using bioinformatics tools. RNA-seq was performed for these samples to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). A Pearson correlation analysis was performed between the expression of genes related to carotenoid metabolism and the content of carotenoid metabolites. Furthermore, the expression levels of the key DEGs were verified by qRT-PCR. The gene coexpression network was constructed by a weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA). The major carotenoid metabolites in the panicles of DHD and JG21 were lutein and β-carotene. These carotenoid metabolite contents sharply decreased during the panicle development stage. The lutein and β-carotene contents were highest at the S1 stage of DHD, with values of 11.474 μg /100 mg and 12.524 μg /100 mg, respectively. Fifty-four genes related to carotenoid metabolism were identified in the foxtail millet genome. Cis-acting element analysis showed that these gene promoters mainly contain 'plant hormone', 'drought stress resistance', 'MYB binding site', 'endosperm specific' and 'seed specific' cis-acting elements and especially the 'light-responsive' and 'ABA-responsive' elements. In the carotenoid metabolic pathways, SiHDS, SiHMGS3, SiPDS and SiNCED1 were more highly expressed in the panicle of foxtail millet. The expression of SiCMT, SiAACT3, SiPSY1, SiZEP1/2, and SiCCD8c/8d was significantly correlated with the lutein content. The expression of SiCMT, SiHDR, SiIDI2, SiAACT3, SiPSY1, and SiZEP1/2 was significantly correlated with the content of β-carotene. WGCNA showed that the coral module was highly correlated with lutein and β-carotene, and 13 structural genes from the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway were identified. Network visualization revealed 25 intramodular hub genes that putatively control carotenoid metabolism. Based on the integrative analysis of the transcriptomics and carotenoid metabonomics, we found that DEGs related to carotenoid metabolism had a stronger correlation with the key carotenoid metabolite content. The correlation analysis and WGCNA identified and predicted the gene regulation network related to carotenoid metabolism. These results lay the foundation for exploring the key target genes regulating carotenoid metabolism flux in the panicle of foxtail millet. We hope that these target genes could be used to genetically modify millet to enhance the carotenoid content in the future.
The plant extracellular space, including the apoplast and plasma membrane, is the initial site of plant-pathogen interactions. Pathogens deliver numerous secreted proteins, called effectors, into this region to suppress plant immunity and establish infection. Downy mildew caused by the oomycete pathogen Sclerospora graminicola (Sg) is an economically important disease of Poaceae crops including foxtail millet (Setaria italica). We previously reported the genome sequence of Sg and showed that the jacalin-related lectin (JRL) gene family has significantly expanded in this lineage. However, the biological functions of JRL proteins remained unknown. Here, we show that JRL from Sg (SgJRL) functions as an apoplastic virulence effector. We identified eight SgJRLs by protein mass spectrometry analysis of extracellular fluid from Sg-inoculated foxtail millet leaves. SgJRLs consist of a jacalin-like lectin domain and an N-terminal putative secretion signal; SgJRL expression is induced by Sg infection. Heterologous expression of three SgJRLs with N-terminal secretion signal peptides in Nicotiana benthamiana enhanced the virulence of the pathogen Phytophthora palmivora inoculated onto the same leaves. Of the three SgJRLs, SG06536 fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) localized to the apoplastic space in N. benthamiana leaves. INF1-mediated induction of defence-related genes was suppressed by co-expression of SG06536-GFP. These findings suggest that JRLs are novel apoplastic effectors that contribute to pathogenicity by suppressing plant defence responses.
Grain filling affects grain weight and quality and is among the most critical factors in determining the yield and quality of cereal crops. Though hybrids have larger panicles and numerous spikelets with a larger sink capacity than conventional varieties, data on the grain filling commonalities and differences between foxtail millet varieties with different panicle types remain sparse. In this study, we found that "Zhang Gu 13" (ZG, large panicle) exhibits a significantly higher panicle weight than "Yu Gu 18" (YG, conventional panicle) at the early stage of grain filling, but the weight of YG increased rapidly and gradually overtook ZG during the middle stages. A temporal expression pattern analysis demonstrated that the genes involved in photosynthesis, metabolic pathways, and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis were downregulated, while those related to peroxisome function, purine metabolism, and zeatin biosynthesis were upregulated during grain filling in both varieties. A total of 6,832 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in both varieties, with the majority identified at the early and late stages. A Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis further revealed that the upregulated DEGs in YG were associated with gibberellin (GA) biosynthesis, ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters, and plant hormone signal transduction. Photosynthesis-related DEGs, such as photosystem and antenna proteins, were significantly upregulated in ZG. This study provides preliminary insights into the differences in gene expression and molecular mechanisms of grain filling between ZG and YG in the North China summer-sowing region.
Growth-regulating factor (GRF) is a multigene family that plays a vital role in the growth and development of plants. In the past, the GRF family of many plants has been studied. However, there is not a report about identification and evolution of GRF in foxtail millet (
Characterization of drought-tolerance mechanisms during the jointing stage in foxtail millet under water-limited conditions is essential for improving the grain yield of this C
Salt stress is a major threat to crop quality and yield. Most experiments on salt stress-related genes have been conducted at the laboratory or greenhouse scale. Consequently, there is a lack of research demonstrating the merit of exploring these genes in field crops. Here, we found that the R2R3-MYB transcription factor
Most plant roots have multiple cortex layers that make up the bulk of the organ and play key roles in physiology, such as flood tolerance and symbiosis. However, little is known about the formation of cortical layers outside of the highly reduced anatomy of
Plant lipoxygenases (LOXs), a kind of non-heme iron-containing dioxygenases, participate plant physiological activities (especially in response to biotic and abiotic stresses) through oxidizing various lipids. However, there was few investigations on LOXs in foxtail millet (
Water deficits are responsible for countless agricultural losses. Among the affected crops, C4 plants are of special interest due to their high water and nitrogen use efficiency. Two accessions of Setaria viridis (Ast-1 and A10.1) with contrasting responses to water deficit were used in the current work to better understand the mechanisms behind drought tolerance in C4 species. Our results showed that although the A10.1 accession exhibited a reduced size and lower Rfd values in comparison to Ast-1, it had overall higher Fv/Fm and lower NPQ values in well-watered conditions. The water deficit induction was performed with PEG-8000 at the grain-filling stage using dehydration cycles. Analysis of physiological measurements showed the A10.1 accession as being more tolerant to multiple water deficit exposures. In addition, PCA identified a clear difference in the pattern of drought response of the accessions. Four drought marker genes previously described in the literature were chosen to evaluate the response at the molecular level: SvP5CS2, SvDHN1, SvNAC6, and SvWRKY1. Besides confirming that Ast-1 is a more sensitive accession, the expression analysis revealed that SvNAC1 might better monitor drought stress, while SvWRKY1 was able to differentiate the two accessions. Distinct evolutionary histories of each accession may be behind their differences in response to water deficits.
In plants, histone modification (HM) genes participate in various developmental and defense processes. Gramineae plants (e.g., Triticum aestivum, Hordeum vulgare, Sorghum bicolor, Setaria italica, Setaria viridis, and Zea mays) are important crop species worldwide. However, little information on HM genes is in Gramineae species. Here, we identified 245 TaHMs, 72 HvHMs, 84 SbHMs, 93 SvHMs, 90 SiHMs, and 90 ZmHMs in the above six Gramineae species, respectively. Detailed information on their chromosome locations, conserved domains, phylogenetic trees, synteny, promoter elements, and gene structures were determined. Among the HMs, most motifs were conserved, but several unique motifs were also identified. Our results also suggested that gene and genome duplications potentially impacted the evolution and expansion of HMs in wheat. The number of orthologous gene pairs between rice (Oryza sativa) and each Gramineae species was much greater than that between Arabidopsis and each Gramineae species, indicating that the dicotyledons shared common ancestors. Moreover, all identified HM gene pairs likely underwent purifying selection based on to their non-synonymous (Ka)/synonymous (Ks) nucleotide substitutions. Using published transcriptome data, changes in TaHM gene expression in developing wheat grains treated with brassinosteroid, brassinazole, or activated charcoal were investigated. In addition, the transcription models of ZmHMs in developing maize seeds and after gibberellin treatment were also identified. We also examined plant stress responses and found that heat, drought, salt, insect feeding, nitrogen, and cadmium stress influenced many TaHMs, and drought altered the expression of several ZmHMs. Thus, these findings indicate their important functions in plant growth and stress adaptations. Based on a comprehensive analysis of Gramineae HMs, we found that TaHMs play potential roles in grain development, brassinosteroid- and brassinazole-mediated root growth, activated charcoal-mediated root and leaf growth, and biotic and abiotic adaptations. Furthermore, ZmHMs likely participate in seed development, gibberellin-mediated leaf growth, and drought adaptation.
Photosynthetic efficiency and sink demand are tightly correlated with rates of phloem loading, where maintaining low cytosolic sugar concentrations is paramount to prevent the downregulation of photosynthesis. Sugars Will Eventually be Exported Transporters (SWEETs) are thought to have a pivotal role in the apoplastic phloem loading of C
GRAS transcription factors perform indispensable functions in various biological processes, such as plant growth, fruit development, and biotic and abiotic stress responses. The development of whole-genome sequencing has allowed the GRAS gene family to be identified and characterized in many species. However, thorough in-depth identification or systematic analysis of GRAS family genes in foxtail millet has not been conducted. In this study, 57 GRAS genes of foxtail millet (SiGRASs) were identified and renamed according to the chromosomal distribution of the SiGRAS genes. Based on the number of conserved domains and gene structure, the SiGRAS genes were divided into 13 subfamilies via phylogenetic tree analysis. The GRAS genes were unevenly distributed on nine chromosomes, and members of the same subfamily had similar gene structures and motif compositions. Genetic structure analysis showed that most SiGRAS genes lacked introns. Some SiGRAS genes were derived from gene duplication events, and segmental duplications may have contributed more to GRAS gene family expansion than tandem duplications. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction showed significant differences in the expression of SiGRAS genes in different tissues and stages of fruits development, which indicated the complexity of the physiological functions of SiGRAS. In addition, exogenous paclobutrazol treatment significantly altered the transcription levels of DELLA subfamily members, downregulated the gibberellin content, and decreased the plant height of foxtail millet, while it increased the fruit weight. In addition, SiGRAS13 and SiGRAS25 may have the potential for genetic improvement and functional gene research in foxtail millet. Collectively, this study will be helpful for further analysing the biological function of SiGRAS. Our results may contribute to improving the genetic breeding of foxtail millet.
Members of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor family perform indispensable functions in various biological processes, such as plant growth, seed maturation, and abiotic stress responses. However, the bHLH family in foxtail millet (Setaria italica), an important food and feed crop, has not been thoroughly studied. In this study, 187 bHLH genes of foxtail millet (SibHLHs) were identified and renamed according to the chromosomal distribution of the SibHLH genes. Based on the number of conserved domains and gene structure, the SibHLH genes were divided into 21 subfamilies and two orphan genes via phylogenetic tree analysis. According to the phylogenetic tree, the subfamilies 15 and 18 may have experienced stronger expansion in the process of evolution. Then, the motif compositions, gene structures, chromosomal spread, and gene duplication events were discussed in detail. A total of sixteen tandem repeat events and thirty-eight pairs of segment duplications were identified in bHLH family of foxtail millet. To further investigate the evolutionary relationship in the SibHLH family, we constructed the comparative syntenic maps of foxtail millet associated with representative monocotyledons and dicotyledons species. Finally, the gene expression response characteristics of 15 typical SibHLH genes in different tissues and fruit development stages, and eight different abiotic stresses were analysed. The results showed that there were significant differences in the transcription levels of some SibHLH members in different tissues and fruit development stages, and different abiotic stresses, implying that SibHLH members might have different physiological functions. In this study, we identified 187 SibHLH genes in foxtail millet and further analysed the evolution and expression patterns of the encoded proteins. The findings provide a comprehensive understanding of the bHLH family in foxtail millet, which will inform further studies on the functional characteristics of SibHLH genes.
Excess soluble salts in saline soils are harmful to most plants. Understanding the biochemical responses to salts in plants and studying the salt tolerance-associated genetic resources in nature will contribute to the improvement of salt tolerance in crops. As an emerging model crop, foxtail millet (
Accurate genome annotations are essential to modern biology; however, they remain challenging to produce. Variation in gene structure and expression across species, as well as within an organism, make correctly annotating genes arduous; an issue exacerbated by pitfalls in current in silico methods. These issues necessitate complementary approaches to add additional confidence and rectify potential misannotations. Integration of epigenomic data into genome annotation is one such approach. In this study, we utilized sets of histone modification data, which are precisely distributed at either gene bodies or promoters to evaluate the annotation of the Zea mays genome. We leveraged these data genome wide, allowing for identification of annotations discordant with empirical data. In total, 13,159 annotation discrepancies were found in Z. mays upon integrating data across three different tissues, which were corroborated using RNA-based approaches. Upon correction, genes were extended by an average of 2128 base pairs, and we identified 2529 novel genes. Application of this method to five additional plant genomes identified a series of misannotations, as well as identified novel genes, including 13,836 in Asparagus officinalis, 2724 in Setaria viridis, 2446 in Sorghum bicolor, 8631 in Glycine max, and 2585 in Phaseolous vulgaris. This study demonstrates that histone modification data can be leveraged to rapidly improve current genome annotations across diverse plant lineages.
BES/BZR family genes have vital roles in plant growth, development, and adaptation to environmental stimuli. However, they have not yet been characterized and systematically analyzed in wheat and foxtail millet. In the current study, five common and two unique BES/BZR genes were identified by genome-wide analysis in wheat and foxtail millet, respectively. These genes were unevenly distributed on 14 and five chromosomes of wheat and foxtail millet, respectively, and clustered in two subgroups in a phylogenetic analysis. The BES/BZR gene family members in each subgroup contained similar conserved motifs. Investigation of cis-acting elements and expression profile analysis revealed that the BES/BZR genes were predominantly expressed in leaf tissues of wheat and foxtail millet seedlings and responded to brassinosteroid, abscisic acid, and NaCl treatments. Our results provide a basis for future studies on the function and molecular mechanisms of the BES/BZR gene family in wheat, foxtail millet, and other plants.
Plants have evolved many leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinases (LRR-RLKs) that control all aspects of plant life in a kinase-dependent or -independent manner. DROOPY LEAF1 (DPY1), which is a subfamily II LRR-RLK authentic kinase, controls leaf droopiness by negatively regulating early brassinosteroid (BR) signaling in foxtail millet. In this study, we proved that overexpressing kinase-inactive DPY1 does not rescue the droopy leaf phenotype of
Grain filling is a crucial process for crop yield and quality. Certain studies already gained insight into the molecular mechanism of grain filling. However, it is unclear whether epigenetic modifications are associated with grain filling in foxtail millet. Global DNA methylation and transcriptome analysis were conducted in foxtail millet spikelets during different stages to interpret the epigenetic effects of the grain filling process. The study employed the whole-genome bisulfite deep sequencing and advanced bioinformatics to sequence and identify all DNA methylation during foxtail millet grain filling; the DNA methylation-mediated gene expression profiles and their involved gene network and biological pathway were systematically studied. One context of DNA methylation, namely, CHH methylation, was accounted for the largest percentage, and it was gradually increased during grain filling. Among all developmental stages, the methylation levels were lowest at T2, followed by T4, which mainly occurred in CHG. The distribution of differentially methylated regions (DMR) was varied in the different genetic regions for three contexts. In addition, gene expression was negatively associated with DNA methylation. Evaluation of the interconnection of the DNA methylome and transcriptome identified some stage-specific differentially expressed genes associated with the DMR at different stages compared with the T1 developmental stage, indicating the potential function of epigenetics on the expression regulation of genes related to the specific pathway at different stages of grain development. The results demonstrated that the dynamic change of DNA methylation plays a crucial function in gene regulation, revealing the potential function of epigenetics in grain development in foxtail millet.
Auxin response factors (ARFs) play crucial roles in auxin-mediated response, whereas molecular genetics of
C4 plants are superior to C3 plants in terms of productivity and limited photorespiration. PPDK (pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase) and NADP-ME (NADP-dependent malic enzyme) are two important photosynthetic C4-specific enzymes present in the mesophyll cells of C4 plants. To evaluate the effect of C4 enzymes in rice, we developed transgenic rice lines by separately introducing Setaria italica PPDK [SiPPDK] and S. italica ME [SiME] gene constructs under the control of the green tissue-specific maize PPDK promoter. Rice plant lines for both constructs were screened using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), Southern hybridization, and expression analysis. The best transgenic plant lines for each case were selected for physiological and biochemical characterization. The results from qRT-PCR and enzyme activity analysis revealed higher expression and activity of both PPDK and NADP-ME genes compared with the nontransformed and empty-vector-transformed plants. The average photosynthetic efficiency of transgenic plant lines carrying the PPDK and NADP-ME genes increased by 18% and 12%, respectively, and was positively correlated with the increased accumulation of photosynthetic pigment. The decrease in Fv/Fm, increased electron transport rate (ETR), and increased photochemical quenching (qP) compared with nontransformed control plants suggest that transgenic rice plants transferred more absorbed light energy to photochemical reactions than wild-type plants. SiME-transgenic plants displayed reduced leaf malate content and superior performance under water deficit conditions. Interestingly, the transgenic plants showed yield enhancement by exhibiting increased plant height, panicle length, panicle weight and thousand grain weight. Overall, the exogenous foxtail millet C4 gene PPDK enhanced photosynthesis and yield to a greater extent than NADP-ME.
MADS-box transcription factors play vital roles in multiple biological processes in plants. At present, a comprehensive investigation into the genome-wide identification and classification of
Amino acid transporters (AATs) plays an essential roles in growth and development of plants, including amino acids long-range transport, seed germination, quality formation, responsiveness to pathogenic bacteria and abiotic stress by modulating the transmembrane transfer of amino acids. In this study, we performed a genome-wide screening to analyze the AAT genes in foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.), especially those associated with quality formation and abiotic stresses response. A total number of 94 AAT genes were identified and divided into 12 subfamilies by their sequence characteristics and phylogenetic relationship. A large number (58/94, 62%) of AAT genes in foxtail millet were expanded via gene duplication, involving 13 tandem and 12 segmental duplication events. Tandemly duplicated genes had a significant impact on their functional differentiation via sequence variation, structural variation and expression variation. Further comparison in multiple species showed that in addition to paralogous genes, the expression variations of the orthologous AAT genes also contributed to their functional differentiation. The transcriptomic comparison of two millet cultivars verified the direct contribution of the AAT genes such as SiAAP1, SiAAP8, and SiAUX2 in the formation of grain quality. In addition, the qRT-PCR analysis suggested that several AAT genes continuously responded to diverse abiotic stresses, such as SiATLb1, SiANT1. Finally, combined with the previous studies and analysis on sequence characteristics and expression patterns of AAT genes, the possible functions of the foxtail millet AAT genes were predicted. This study for the first time reported the evolutionary features, functional differentiation, roles in the quality formation and response to abiotic stresses of foxtail millet AAT gene family, thus providing a framework for further functional analysis of SiAAT genes, and also contributing to the applications of AAT genes in improving the quality and resistance to abiotic stresses of foxtail millet, and other cereal crops.
PTI1 (Pto-interacting 1) protein kinase belongs to the receptor-like cytoplasmic kinase (RLCK) group of receptor-like protein kinases (RLK), but lack extracellular and transmembrane domains. PTI1 was first identified in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) and named SlPTI1, which has been reported to interact with bacterial effector Pto, a serine/threonine protein kinase involved in plant resistance to bacterial disease. Briefly, the host PTI1 specifically recognizes and interacts with the bacterial effector AvrPto, which triggers hypersensitive cell death to inhibit the pathogen growth in the local infection site. Previous studies have demonstrated that PTI1 is associated with oxidative stress and hypersensitivity. We identified 12 putative PTI1 genes from the genome of foxtail millet (Setaria italica) in this study. Gene replication analysis indicated that both segmental replication events played an important role in the expansion of PTI1 gene family in foxtail millet. The PTI1 family members of model plants, i.e. S. italica, Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), rice (Oryza sativa), maize (Zea mays), S. lycopersicum, and soybean (Glycine max), were classified into six major categories according to the phylogenetic analysis, among which the PTI1 family members in foxtail millet showed higher degree of homology with those of rice and maize. The analysis of a complete set of SiPTI1 genes/proteins including classification, chromosomal location, orthologous relationships and duplication. The tissue expression characteristics revealed that SiPTI1 genes are mainly expressed in stems and leaves. Experimental qRT-PCR results demonstrated that 12 SiPTI1 genes were induced by multiple stresses. Subcellular localization visualized that all of foxtail millet SiPTI1s were localized to the plasma membrane. Additionally, heterologous expression of SiPTI1-5 in yeast and E. coli enhanced their tolerance to salt stress. Our results contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of the roles of PTI1 protein kinases and will be useful in prioritizing particular PTI1 for future functional validation studies in foxtail millet.
Brassinosteroids (BRs) play important roles in plant growth and development. Although BR receptors have been intensively studied in Arabidopsis, those in foxtail millet remain largely unknown. Here, we show that the BR signaling function of BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1) is conserved between Arabidopsis and foxtail millet, a new model species for C4 and Panicoideae grasses. We identified four putative BR receptor genes in the foxtail millet genome: SiBRI1, SiBRI1-LIKE RECEPTOR KINASE 1 (SiBRL1), SiBRL2 and SiBRL3. Phylogenetic analysis was used to classify the BR receptors in dicots and monocots into three branches. Analysis of their expression patterns by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) showed that these receptors were ubiquitously expressed in leaves, stems, dark-grown seedlings, roots and non-flowering spikelets. GFP fusion experiments verified that SiBRI1 localized to the cell membrane. We also explored the SiBRI1 function in Arabidopsis through complementation experiments. Ectopic overexpression of SiBRI1 in an Arabidopsis BR receptor loss-of-function mutant, bri1-116, mostly reversed the developmental defects of the mutant. When SiBRI1 was overexpressed in foxtail millet, the plants showed a drooping leaf phenotype and root development inhibition, lateral root initiation inhibition, and the expression of BR synthesis genes was inhibited. We further identified BRI1-interacting proteins by immunoprecipitation (IP)-mass spectrometry (MS). Our results not only demonstrate that SiBRI1 plays a conserved role in BR signaling in foxtail millet but also provide insight into the molecular mechanism of SiBRI1.
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is an excellent source of beneficial natural fatty acids and phytosterols. However, the mechanisms underlying the dynamic changes of fatty acids and phytosterols during seed development are unknown. In this study, a comprehensive dynamic change analysis of the bioactive compounds during seed development was conducted in two cultivars with different crude fat content (high-fat, JG 35 [5.40%]; and low-fat, JG 39 [2.90%]). GC-FID/MS analysis showed that the proportion of unsaturated fatty acids (UFAs) were higher than the saturated fatty acids (SFAs). UFA content first increased, then decreased during seed development, while SFA content showed the opposite trend. Oil contents continuously increased with seed development, especially at the S2 stage. Phytosterol contents initially increased, then decreased with seed development. Transcriptome analysis revealed that 152 genes were associated with fatty acid metabolism and phytosterol biosynthesis, of which 46 and 62 were related to UFA and phytosterol biosynthesis, respectively. Furthermore, the key genes involved in fatty acid synthesis (ACCase and FATA/B), triacylglycerol biosynthesis (LACS, GPAT, and DGAT), and phytosterols synthesis (CAS1, STM1, EGR6, and DWF1) were overexpressed. This led to maximum UFA, oil, and phytosterol accumulation in JG 35 at the S2 stage. This study reveals the mechanism behind the dynamic changes of fatty acid and phytosterol contents in foxtail millet during seed development.
Foxtail millet grain has higher folate content than other cereal crops. However, the folate metabolite content and the expression patterns of folate metabolite-related genes are unknown. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to investigate 12 folate metabolites in a foxtail millet panicle. The content of total folate and derivatives gradually decreased during panicle development. Polyglutamate 5-formyl-tetrahydrofolate was the major form. Twenty-eight genes involved in the folate metabolic pathway were identified through bioinformatic analysis. These genes in Setaria italica, S. viridis and Zea mays showed genomic collinearity. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the folate-related genes were closely related among the C4 plants compared to C3 plants. The gene expressions were then studied at three panicle development stages. The gene expression patterns were classified into two groups, namely SiADCL1 and SiGGH as two key enzymes, which are responsible for folate synthesis and degradation; their expression levels were highest at the early panicle development stage, up to 179.11- and 163.88-fold, respectively. Their expression levels had a similar downward trend during panicle development and were significantly positively correlated with the concentration of total folate and folate derivatives. However, SiSHMT3 expression levels were significantly negatively correlated with total folate concentration. Besides being the major determinants of folate and folate derivatives accumulation, SiADCL1 and SiGGH expression levels are key limiting factors in the foxtail millet panicle. Therefore, SiADCL1 and SiGGH expression levels can be targeted in genetic modification studies to improve folate content in foxtail millet seeds in the future. © 2021 Society of Chemical Industry.
C-terminally encoded peptides (CEPs) are small peptides, typically post-translationally modified, and highly conserved in many species. CEPs are known to inhibit plant growth and development, but the mechanisms are not well understood. In this study, 14 CEPs were identified in Setaria italica and divided into two groups. The transcripts of most SiCEPs were more abundant in roots than in other detected tissues. SiCEP3, SiCEP4, and SiCEP5 were also highly expressed in panicles. Moreover, expression of all SiCEPs was induced by abiotic stresses and phytohormones. SiCEP3 overexpression and application of synthetic SiCEP3 both inhibited seedling growth. In the presence of abscisic acid (ABA), growth inhibition and ABA content in seedlings increased with the concentration of SiCEP3. Transcripts encoding eight ABA transporters and six ABA receptors were induced or repressed by synthetic SiCEP3, ABA, and their combination. Further analysis using loss-of-function mutants of Arabidopsis genes functioning as ABA transporters, receptors, and in the biosynthesis and degradation of ABA revealed that SiCEP3 promoted ABA import at least via NRT1.2 (NITRATE TRANSPORTER 1.2) and ABCG40 (ATP-BINDING CASSETTE G40). In addition, SiCEP3, ABA, or their combination inhibited the kinase activities of CEP receptors AtCEPR1/2. Taken together, our results indicated that the CEP-CEPR module mediates ABA signaling by regulating ABA transporters and ABA receptors in planta.
Multi-environment QTL mapping identified 23 stable loci and 34 co-located QTL clusters for panicle architecture and grain yield-related traits, which provide a genetic basis for foxtail millet yield improvement. Panicle architecture and grain weight, both of which are influenced by genetic and environmental factors, have significant effects on grain yield potential. Here, we used a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population of 333 lines of foxtail millet, which were grown in 13 trials with varying environmental conditions, to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling nine agronomic traits related to panicle architecture and grain yield. We found that panicle weight, grain weight per panicle, panicle length, panicle diameter, and panicle exsertion length varied across different geographical locations. QTL mapping revealed 159 QTL for nine traits. Of the 159 QTL, 34 were identified in 2 to 12 environments, suggesting that the genetic control of panicle architecture in foxtail millet is sensitive to photoperiod and/or other environmental factors. Eighty-eight QTL controlling different traits formed 34 co-located QTL clusters, including the triple QTL cluster qPD9.2/qPL9.5/qPEL9.3, which was detected 23 times in 13 environments. Several candidate genes, including Seita.2G388700, Seita.3G136000, Seita.4G185300, Seita.5G241500, Seita.5G243100, Seita.9G281300, and Seita.9G342700, were identified in the genomic intervals of multi-environmental QTL or co-located QTL clusters. Using available phenotypic and genotype data, we conducted haplotype analysis for Seita.2G002300 and Seita.9G064000,which showed high correlations with panicle weight and panicle exsertion length, respectively. These results not only provided a basis for further fine mapping, functional studies and marker-assisted selection of traits related to panicle architecture in foxtail millet, but also provide information for comparative genomics analyses of cereal crops.
Foxtail millet (FM) is receiving ongoing increased attention due to its beneficial health effects, including the hypoglycemic effect. However, the underlying mechanisms of the hypoglycemic effect have been underexplored. In the present study, the hypoglycemic effect of FM supplementation was confirmed again in high-fat diet and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats with significantly decreased fasting glucose (FG), glycated serum protein, and areas under the glucose tolerance test (
The CLAVATA pathway controls meristem size during inflorescence development in both eudicots and grasses, and is initiated by peptide ligands encoded by
Allelopathy means that one plant produces chemical substances to affect the growth and development of other plants. Usually, allelochemicals can stimulate or inhibit the germination and growth of plants, which have been considered as potential strategy for drug development of environmentally friendly biological herbicides. Obviously, the discovery of plant materials with extensive sources, low cost and markedly allelopathic effect will have far-reaching ecological impacts as the biological herbicide. At present, a large number of researches have already reported that certain plant-derived allelochemicals can inhibit weed growth. In this study, the allelopathic effect of Artemisia argyi was investigated via a series of laboratory experiments and field trial. Firstly, water-soluble extracts exhibited the strongest allelopathic inhibitory effects on various plants under incubator conditions, after the different extracts authenticated by UPLC-Q-TOF-MS. Then, the allelopathic effect of the A. argyi was systematacially evaluated on the seed germination and growth of Brassica pekinensis, Lactuca sativa, Oryza sativa, Portulaca oleracea, Oxalis corniculata and Setaria viridis in pot experiments, it suggested that the A. argyi could inhibit both dicotyledons and monocotyledons not only by seed germination but also by seedling growth. Furthermore, field trial showed that the A. argyi significantly inhibited the growth of weeds in Chrysanthemum morifolium field with no adverse effect on the growth of C. morifolium. At last, RNA-Seq analysis and key gene detection analysis indicated that A.argyi inhibited the germination and growth of weed via multi-targets and multi-paths while the inhibiting of chlorophyll synthesis of target plants was one of the key mechanisms. In summary, the A. argyi was confirmed as a potential raw material for the development of preventive herbicides against various weeds in this research. Importantly, this discovery maybe provide scientific evidence for the research and development of environmentally friendly herbicides in the future.
Based on the high-density variation map, we identified genome-level evidence for local adaptation and demonstrated that Siprr37 with transposon insertion contributes to the fitness of foxtail millet in the northeastern ecoregion. Adaptation is a robust way through which plants are able to overcome environmental constraints. The mechanisms of adaptation in heterogeneous natural environments are largely unknown. Deciphering the genomic basis of local adaptation will contribute to further improvement in domesticated plants. To this end, we describe a high-depth (19.4 ×) haplotype map of 3.02 million single nucleotide polymorphisms in foxtail millet (Setaria italica) from whole-genome resequencing of 312 accessions. In the genome-wide scan, we identified a set of improvement signals (including the homologous gene of OsIPA1, a key gene controlling ideal plant architecture) related to the geographical adaptation to four ecoregions in China. In particular, based on the genome-wide association analysis results, we identified the contribution of a pseudo-response regulator gene, SiPRR37, to heading date adaptation in foxtail millet. We observed the expression changes of SiPRR37 resulted from a key Tc1-Mariner transposon insertion in the first intron. Positive selection analyses revealed that SiPRR37 mainly contributed to the adaptation of northeastern ecoregions. Taken together, foxtail millet adapted to the northeastern region by regulating the function of SiPRR37, which sheds lights on genome-level evidence for adaptive geographical divergence. Besides, our data provide a nearly complete catalog of genomic variation aiding the identification of functionally important variants.
The purpose of this data set is to capture the complete diurnal (i.e., daily) transcriptome of fully expanded third leaves from the C4 panacoid grasses sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), maize (Zea mays), and foxtail millet (Setaria italica) with RNA-seq transcriptome profiling. These data are the cornerstone of a larger project that examined the conservation and divergence of gene expression networks within these crop plants. This data set focuses on temporal changes in gene expression to identify the network architecture responsible for daily regulation of plant growth and metabolic activities. The power of this data set is fine temporal resolution combined with continuous sampling over multiple days. The data set is 72 individual RNA-seq samples representing 24 time course samples each for sorghum, maize, and foxtail millet plants cultivated in a growth chamber under equal intervals of light and darkness. The 24 samples are separated by 3-h intervals so that the data set is a fine scale 72-h analysis of gene expression in the leaves of each plant type. FASTQ files from Illumina sequencing are available at the National Center for Biotechnology Information Sequence Read Archive.
Auxin is critical to plant growth and development, as well as stress responses. Small auxin-up RNA (SAUR) is the largest family of early auxin responsive genes in higher plants. However, the function of few SAUR genes is known owing to functional redundancy among the many family members. In this study, we conducted a phylogenetic analysis using protein sequences of 795 SAURs from Anthoceros angustus, Marchantia polymorpha, Physcomitrella patens, Selaginella moellendorffii, Ginkgo biloba, Gnetum montanum, Amborella trichopoda, Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Zea mays, Glycine max, Medicago truncatula and Setaria italica. The phylogenetic trees showed that the SAUR proteins could be divided into 10 clades and three subfamilies, and that SAUR proteins of three bryophyte species were only located in subfamily III, which suggested that they may be ancestral. From bryophyta to anthophyta, SAUR family have appeared very large expansion. The number of SAUR gene in Fabaceae species was considerably higher than that in other plants, which may be associated with independent whole genome duplication event in the Fabaceae lineages. The phylogenetic trees also showed that SAUR genes had expanded independently monocotyledons and dicotyledons in angiosperms. Conserved motif and protein structure prediction revealed that SAUR proteins were highly conserved among higher plants, and two leucine residues in motif I were observed in almost all SAUR proteins, which suggests the residues plays a critical role in the stability and function of SAUR proteins. Expression analysis of SAUR genes using publicly available RNA-seq data from rice and soybean indicated functional similarity of members in the same clade, which was also further confirmed by qRT-PCR. Summarization of SAUR functions also showed that SAUR functions were usually consistent within a subclade. This study provides insights into the evolution and function of the SAUR gene family from bryophyta to anthophyta, particularly in Fabaceae plants. Future investigation to understand the functions of SAUR family members should employ a clade as the study unit.
Certain synthetic herbicides can act synergistically with specific bioherbicides. In this study, a sethoxydim herbicide at 0.1× label rate improved biocontrol of herbicide-sensitive green foxtail (Setaria viridis, GFT) by Pyricularia setariae (a fungal bioherbicide agent), but did not change the efficacy on a herbicide-resistant GFT biotype. Reference transcriptomes were constructed for both GFT biotypes via de novo assembly of RNA-seq data. GFT plants treated with herbicide alone, fungus alone and herbicide + fungus were compared for weed-control efficacy and differences in transcriptomes. On herbicide-sensitive GFT, sethoxydim at the reduced rate induced ABA-activated signaling pathways and a bZIP transcription factor 60 (TF bZIP60), while improved the efficacy of biocontrol. The herbicide treatment did not increase these activities or improve biocontrol efficacy on herbicide-resistant plants. An exogenous application of ABA to herbicide-sensitive plants also enhanced bZIP60 expression and improved biocontrol efficacy, which supported the results of transcriptome analysis that identified the involvement of ABA and bZIP60 in impaired plant defense against P. setariae. It is novel to use transcriptome analysis to decipher the molecular basis for synergy between a synthetic herbicide and a bioherbicide agent. A better understanding of the mechanism underlining the synergy may facilitate the development of weed biocontrol.
Three QTL for resistance to leaf blast were identified on chromosomes 1, 2, and 8 of the foxtail millet cultivar Yugu 5. Leaf blast disease of foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is caused by Pyricularia spp., can infect all the aboveground parts of plants, and is the most frequently observed blast disease in China. Lack of information on genetic control of disease resistance impedes developing leaf blast-resistant cultivars. An F
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been reported to play critical roles in diverse growth and development processes in plants. However, the systematic identification and characterization of lncRNAs in foxtail millet is nearly blank. In this study, we performed high-throughput sequencing of young spikelets from four foxtail millet varieties in different yield levels at booting stage. As a result, a total of 12,378 novel lncRNAs were identified, and 70 were commonly significantly differentially expressed in comparisons between high-yield varieties and conventional varieties, suggesting that they involved in yield formation and regulation in foxtail millet. Functional analysis revealed that among the 70 significantly differentially expressed lncRNAs, 67 could transcriptionally modulate target genes in cis and in trans. Moreover, 18 lncRNAs related to grain yield in foxtail millet were predicted to function as miRNA target mimics and regulate gene expression by competing for the interaction between miRNAs and their target mRNAs. Our results will provide materials for elucidation of the molecular mechanisms of lncRNAs participate in yield regulation, and will contribute to high yield foxtail millet breeding.
A novel MADS-box member SiMADS34 is essential for regulating inflorescence architecture and grain yield in Setaria italica. MADS-box transcription factors participate in regulating various developmental processes in plants. Inflorescence architecture is one of the most important agronomic traits and is closely associated with grain yield in most staple crops. Here, we isolated a panicle development mutant simads34 from a foxtail millet (Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv.) EMS mutant library. The mutant showed significantly altered inflorescence architecture and decreased grain yield. Investigation of agronomic traits revealed increased panicle width by 16.8%, primary branch length by 10%, and number of primary branches by 30.9%, but reduced panicle length by 25.2%, and grain weight by 25.5% in simads34 compared with wild-type plants. Genetic analysis of a simads34 × SSR41 F
The selection of transcription terminators (TTs) for pairing with high expressing constitutive promoters in chimeric constructs is crucial to deliver optimal transgene expression in plants. In this study, the use of the native combinations of four polyubiquitin gene promoters and corresponding TTs resulted in up to >3-fold increase in transgene expression in maize. Of the eight polyubiquitin promoter and TT regulatory elements utilized, seven were novel and identified from the polyubiquitin genes of
This is a first comprehensive study to analyze the 12 PHT1 family phosphate transporter genes in 20 foxtail millet genotypes for the improvement of millets and other crops for phosphate use efficiency. Phosphorus (P), absorbed from soil solutions as inorganic phosphate (Pi), is a limiting nutrient for plant growth and yield. Twenty genotypes of foxtail millet (Setaria italica) with contrasting degree of growth and Pi uptake responses under low Pi (LP) and high Pi (HP) supply were chosen based on a previous study. To gain molecular insights, expression dynamics of 12 PHosphate Transporter 1 (PHT1) family (SiPHT1;1 to 1;12) genes were analyzed in these 20 genotypes and compared with their Pi and total P (TP) contents. SiPHT1;1, 1;2, 1;3 and 1;8 genes were expressed in shoot tissues of three (ISe 1209, ISe 1305 and Co-6) of the LP best performing genotypes (LPBG); however, they were expressed in only one of the LP worst performing genotype (LPWG) (ISe 748). More importantly, this is correlating with higher shoot Pi and TP contents of the LPBG compared to LPWG. Apart from this condition, expression of SiPHT1 genes and their Pi and TP contents do not correlate directly for many genotypes in other conditions; genotypes with low Pi and TP contents induced more SiPHT1 genes and vice versa. Promoter analysis revealed that genotype ISe 1888 with a high level of SiPHT1;8 expression possesses two additional root box motifs compared to other genotypes. The PHT1 family genes seem to play a key role for LP stress tolerance in foxtail millet and further studies will help to improve the P-use efficiency in foxtail millet and other cereals.
The chloroplast RNA splicing and ribosome maturation (CRM) domain is a RNA-binding domain found in a plant-specific protein family whose characterized members play essential roles in splicing group I and group II introns in mitochondria and chloroplasts. Together, these proteins are required for splicing of the majority of the approximately 20 chloroplast introns in land plants. Here, we provide evidence from Setaria viridis and maize that an uncharacterized member of this family, CRM Family Member1 (CFM1), promotes the splicing of most of the introns that had not previously been shown to require a CRM domain protein. A Setaria mutant expressing mutated CFM1 was strongly disrupted in the splicing of three chloroplast tRNAs: trnI, trnV and trnA. Analyses by RNA gel blot and polysome association suggest that the tRNA deficiencies lead to compromised chloroplast protein synthesis and the observed whole-plant chlorotic phenotypes. Co-immunoprecipitation data demonstrate that the maize CFM1 ortholog is bound to introns whose splicing is disrupted in the cfm1 mutant. With these results, CRM domain proteins have been shown to promote the splicing of all but two of the introns found in angiosperm chloroplast genomes.
Using a fixed RIL population derived from a widely used foxtail millet backbone breeding line and an elite cultivar, we constructed a high-density bin map and identified six novel multi-environment effect QTLs and seven candidate genes for dwarf phenotype. Plant height is an important trait that determines tradeoffs between competition and resource allocation, which is crucial for yield potential. To improve the C4 model plant foxtail millet (Setaria italica) productivity, it is necessary to isolate plant height-related genes that contribute to ideal plant architecture in breeding. In the present study, we generated a foxtail millet population of 333 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between a backbone line Ai 88 and an elite cultivar Liaogu 1. We evaluated plant height in 13 environmental conditions across 4 years, the mean plant height of the RIL population ranged from 89.5 to 149.9 cm. Using deep re-sequencing data, we constructed a high-density bin map with 3744 marker bins. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping identified 26 QTLs significantly associated with plant height. Of these, 13 QTLs were repeatedly detected under multiple environments, including six novel QTLs that have not been reported before. Seita.1G242300, a gene encodes gibberellin 2-oxidase-8, which was detected in nine environments in a 1.54-Mb interval of qPH1.3, was considered as an important candidate gene. Moreover, other six genes involved in GA biosynthesis or signaling pathways, and fifteen genes encode F-box domain proteins which might function as E3 ligases, were also considered as candidate genes in different QTLs. These QTLs and candidate genes identified in this study will help to elucidate the genetic basis of foxtail millet plant height, and the linked markers will be useful for marker-assistant selection of varieties with ideal plant architecture and high yield potential.
Heterotrimeric G-proteins are key modulators of multiple signaling and development pathways in plants and regulate many agronomic traits, including architecture and grain yield. Regulator of G-protein signaling (RGS) proteins are an integral part of the G-protein networks; however, these are lost in many monocots. To assess if the loss of RGS in specific plants has resulted in altered G-protein networks and the extent to which RGS function is conserved across contrasting monocots, we explored G-protein-dependent developmental pathways in
A genomic resource of drought stress responsive genes/ESTs was generated using Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH) approach in a drought stress tolerant Pennisetum glaucum genotype 841B. Fifty five days old plants were subjected to drought stress after withholding water for different time intervals (10 days, 15 days, 20 days and 25 days). A forward subtractive cDNA library was prepared from isolated RNA of leaf tissue. Differential gene expression under drought stress was validated for selected nine contigs by RT-qPCR. A transcript homologous to Setaria italica ASR3 upregulated under drought stress was isolated from genotype 841B and characterized. Heterologous expression of PgASR3 was validated in Arabidopsis and confirmed under multiple abiotic stress conditions. A total of four independent transgenic lines overexpressing gene PgASR3 were analyzed by Southern blot at T
This report reveals the effects of salt on the photosynthetic electron transport and transcriptome of the glycophyte Setaria viridis (S. viridis) and its salt-tolerant close relative halophyte Spartina alterniflora (S. alterniflora). S. viridis was unable to survive exposed to sodium chloride (NaCl) levels higher than 100 mM, in contrast, S. alterniflora could tolerate NaCl up to 550 mM, with negligible effect on gas exchange related parameters and conductance of electrons transport chain (g
Leaf architecture directly determines canopy structure, and thus, grain yield in crops. Leaf droopiness is an agronomic trait primarily affecting the cereal leaf architecture but the genetic basis and underlying molecular mechanism of this trait remain unclear. Here, we report that DROOPY LEAF1 (DPY1), an LRR receptor-like kinase, plays a crucial role in determining leaf droopiness by controlling the brassinosteroid (BR) signaling output in
Salinity stress has become an expanding threat to food security worldwide. Revealing the mechanisms of salinity tolerance in plants has immense significance. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) has been regarded as a model crop for exploring mechanisms under stress, considering its extreme adaptation abilities to adverse ecologies. In present study, two foxtail millet cultivars of Yugu2 and An04 with contrasting salt tolerance properties were investigated through integrative analyses of transcriptomics and metabolomics. In the transcriptomics results, 8887 and 12,249 DEGs were identified in Yugu2 and An04 in response to salinity, respectively, and 3149 of which were overlapped between two varieties. These salinity-responsive genes indicated that ion transport, redox homeostasis, phytohormone metabolism, signaling and secondary metabolism were enriched in Yugu2 by GO and KEGG analyses. The integrative omics analysis implied that phenylpropanoid, flavonoid and lignin biosynthesis pathways, and lysophospholipids were vital in determining the foxtail millet salinity tolerance. Importantly, the tolerance of Yugu2 attributed to higher efficiencies of ion channel and antioxidant system. All these provide a comprehensive regulatory network of foxtail millet to cope with salinity, and shed some lights on salt tolerance which is relevant for other cereal crops.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play an important function in plant growth and development as well as response to stresses. However, little information was known in foxtail millet; no study was reported on lncRNAs in plant response to herbicide treatment. In this study, by using deep sequencing and advanced bioinformatic analysis, a total of 2547 lncRNAs were identified, including 787 known and 1760 novel lncRNAs. These lncRNAs are distributed across all 9 chromosomes, and the majority were located in the intergenic region with 1-2 exons. These lncRNAs were differentially expressed between different genotypes under different herbicide treatments. lncRNAs regulate plant growth and development as well as response to herbicide treatments through targeting protein-coding genes that directly relate to chemical metabolism and defense system. Multiple potential target genes and lncRNA-mRNA-miRNA gene networks were discovered. These results elucidate the potential roles of lncRNAs in plant response to herbicides.
Grain filling is an importantly developmental process which is associated with the yield and quality of foxtail millet (
Polyol transporters (PLTs), also called polyol/monosaccharide transporters, is of significance in determining plant development and sugar transportation. However, the diverged evolutionary patterns of the
The circadian clock drives endogenous 24-h rhythms that allow organisms to adapt and prepare for predictable and repeated changes in their environment throughout the day-night (diurnal) cycle. Many components of the circadian clock in Arabidopsis thaliana have been functionally characterized, but comparatively little is known about circadian clocks in grass species including major crops like maize and sorghum. Comparative research based on protein homology and diurnal gene expression patterns suggests the function of some predicted clock components in grasses is conserved with their Arabidopsis counterparts, while others have diverged in function. Our analysis of diurnal gene expression in three panicoid grasses sorghum, maize, and foxtail millet revealed conserved and divergent evolution of expression for core circadian clock genes and for the overall transcriptome. We find that several classes of core circadian clock genes in these grasses differ in copy number compared to Arabidopsis, but mostly exhibit conservation of both protein sequence and diurnal expression pattern with the notable exception of maize paralogous genes. We predict conserved cis-regulatory motifs shared between maize, sorghum, and foxtail millet through identification of diurnal co-expression clusters for a subset of 27,196 orthologous syntenic genes. In this analysis, a Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel based method to control for background variation identified significant enrichment for both expected and novel 6-8 nucleotide motifs in the promoter regions of genes with shared diurnal regulation predicted to function in common physiological activities. This study illustrates the divergence and conservation of circadian clocks and diurnal regulatory networks across syntenic orthologous genes in panacoid grass species. Further, conserved local regulatory sequences contribute to the architecture of these diurnal regulatory networks that produce conserved patterns of diurnal gene expression.
Foxtail millet [Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv.] is an excellent crop known for its superior level of drought tolerance across the world. Especially, less water is needed during its germination period than the other cereal crops. However, the knowledge of the mechanisms underlying the abiotic stress effects on seed germination of foxtail millet is largely unknown. The water uptake pattern of foxtail millet seeds was ploted during germination period, according to which the germination time course of millet was separated into three phases. We sequenced the transcriptome of foxtail millet seeds, which were treated by PEG during different germination phases after sowing. The transcriptional studies revealed that more DEGs were identified during the further increase in water uptake period (phase III) than during the rapid initial uptake period (phase I) and the plateau period (phase II) under PEG stress. The pathway analysis of DEGs showed that the highly enriched categories were related to phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, plant hormone signal transduction and phenylalanine metabolism during phase III. The 20 phenylpropanoids-related genes of germinating foxtail millet were found to be down-regulated during the further increase in water uptake period under PEG stress. Further expression analysis identified 4 genes of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase, 4-coumarate-CoA ligase 3, cinnamoyl-CoA reductase 1, cationic peroxidase SPC4 in phenylpropanoids-related pathway, which played important roles in foxtail millet in response to PEG stress during different germination periods. The studies of metabolites in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway revealed that higher amount of cinnamic acid was accumulated in germinating seeds under PEG stress, while the contents of p-coumaric acid, caffeic acid, ferulic acid and sinapic acid were decreased. And the effects of five phenolic compounds on germination and growth of foxtail millet showed that 1 mM concentration of cinnamic acid inhibited shoot and root growth, especially root development. Ferulic acid, caffeic acid, sinapic acid and p-coumaric acid could increase the root length and root/sprout in lower concentration. These findings suggest that key genes and metabolites of foxtail millet related with phenylpropanoids pathway may play prominent roles in the regulation of resistance to drought during germination. Foxtail millet can probably avoid drought by regulating the levels of endogenous allelochemicals.
Food insecurity is a looming threat for the burgeoning world population. Phosphorus (P), which is absorbed from soil as inorganic phosphate (Pi), is an essential macronutrient for the growth of all agricultural crops. This study reports phenotype analysis for P responses in natural field and greenhouse conditions, using 54 genotypes of foxtail millet (Setaria italica) representing wide geographic origins. The genotype responses were assessed in natural field conditions in two different seasons (monsoon and summer) under Pi-fertilized (P+) and unfertilized (P-) soil for eight above-ground traits. Enormous variations were seen among the genotypes in phenotypic responses for all the measured parameters under low P stress conditions. Variations were significant for plant height, leaf number and length, tillering ability and seed yield traits. Genotypes ISe 1234 and ISe 1541 were P+ responders, and the genotypes ISe 1181, ISe 1655, ISe 783 and ISe 1892 showed tolerance to low P for total seed yield. Genotypes that performed well under P- conditions were almost as productive as genotypes that performed well under P+ conditions suggesting some genotypes are well adapted to nutrient-poor soils. In the greenhouse, most of the genotypes produced changes in root architecture that are characteristic of P- stress, but to differing degrees. Significant variation was seen in root hair density and root hair number and in fresh and dry weight of shoot and root under P- stress. However, there was not much difference in the shoot and root total P and Pi levels of five selected high and low responding genotypes. We noticed contrasting responses in the greenhouse and natural field experiments for most of these genotypes. The leads from the study form the basis for breeding and improvement of foxtail millet for better Pi-use efficiency.
The aim of this study was to determine the effects and underlying molecular mechanisms of humic acid (HA) on foxtail millet (Setaria italica Beauv.) under drought conditions. The rainless climate of the Shanxi Province (37°42'N, 112°58'E) in China provides a natural simulation of drought conditions. Two foxtail millet cultivars, Jingu21 and Zhangza10, were cultivated in Shanxi for two consecutive years (2017-2018) based on a split-plot design. Plant growth, grain quality, and mineral elements were analyzed in foxtail millet treated with HA (50, 100, 200, 300, and 400 mg L-1) and those treated with clear water. Transcriptome sequencing followed by bioinformatics analysis was performed on plants in the normal control (CK), drought treatment (D), and drought + HA treatment (DHA) groups. Results were verified using real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). HA at a concentration of 100-200 mg L-1 caused a significant increase in the yield of foxtail millet and had a positive effect on dry weight and root-shoot ratio. HA also significantly increased P, Fe, Cu, Zn, and Mg content in grains. Moreover, a total of 1098 and 409 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in group D vs. CK and D vs. DHA, respectively. A protein-protein interaction network and two modules were constructed based on DEGs (such as SETIT_016654mg) between groups D and DHA. These DEGs were mainly enriched in the metabolic pathway. In conclusion, HA (100 mg L-1) was found to promote the growth of foxtail millet under drought conditions. Furthermore, SETIT_016654mg may play a role in the effect of HA on foxtail millet via control of the metabolic pathway. This study lays the foundation for research into the molecular mechanisms that underlie the alleviating effects of HA on foxtail millet under drought conditions.
Deep sequencing of DNase-I treated chromatin (DNase-seq) can be used to identify DNase I-hypersensitive sites (DHSs) and facilitates genome-scale mining of de novo
Terpenoid metabolism plays vital roles in stress defense and the environmental adaptation of monocot crops. Here, we describe the identification of the terpene synthase (TPS) gene family of the panicoid food and bioenergy model crop foxtail millet (Setaria italica). The diploid S. italica genome contains 32 TPS genes, 17 of which were biochemically characterized in this study. Unlike other thus far investigated grasses, S. italica contains TPSs producing all three ent-, (+)- and syn-copalyl pyrophosphate stereoisomers that naturally occur as central building blocks in the biosynthesis of distinct monocot diterpenoids. Conversion of these intermediates by the promiscuous TPS SiTPS8 yielded different diterpenoid scaffolds. Additionally, a cytochrome P450 monooxygenase (CYP99A17), which genomically clustered with SiTPS8, catalyzes the C19 hydroxylation of SiTPS8 products to generate the corresponding diterpene alcohols. The presence of syntenic orthologs to about 19% of the S. italica TPSs in related grasses supports a common ancestry of selected pathway branches. Among the identified enzyme products, abietadien-19-ol, syn-pimara-7,15-dien-19-ol and germacrene-d-4-ol were detectable in planta, and gene expression analysis of the biosynthetic TPSs showed distinct and, albeit moderately, inducible expression patterns in response to biotic and abiotic stress. In vitro growth-inhibiting activity of abietadien-19-ol and syn-pimara-7,15-dien-19-ol against Fusarium verticillioides and Fusarium subglutinans may indicate pathogen defensive functions, whereas the low antifungal efficacy of tested sesquiterpenoids supports other bioactivities. Together, these findings expand the known chemical space of monocot terpenoid metabolism to enable further investigations of terpenoid-mediated stress resilience in these agriculturally important species.
Plants have developed various sophisticated mechanisms to cope up with climate extremes and different stress conditions, especially by involving specific transcription factors (TFs). The members of the WRKY TF family are well known for their role in plant development, phytohormone signaling and developing resistance against biotic or abiotic stresses. In this study, we performed a genome-wide screening to identify and analyze the WRKY TFs in pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum; PgWRKY), which is one of the most widely grown cereal crops in the semi-arid regions. A total number of 97 putative PgWRKY proteins were identified and classified into three major Groups (I-III) based on the presence of WRKY DNA binding domain and zinc-finger motif structures. Members of Group II have been further subdivided into five subgroups (IIa-IIe) based on the phylogenetic analysis. In-silico analysis of PgWRKYs revealed the presence of various cis-regulatory elements in their promoter region like ABRE, DRE, ERE, EIRE, Dof, AUXRR, G-box, etc., suggesting their probable involvement in growth, development and stress responses of pearl millet. Chromosomal mapping evidenced uneven distribution of identified 97 PgWRKY genes across all the seven chromosomes of pearl millet. Synteny analysis of PgWRKYs established their orthologous and paralogous relationship among the WRKY gene family of Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa and Setaria italica. Gene ontology (GO) annotation functionally categorized these PgWRKYs under cellular components, molecular functions and biological processes. Further, the differential expression pattern of PgWRKYs was noticed in different tissues (leaf, stem, root) and under both drought and salt stress conditions. The expression pattern of PgWRKY33, PgWRKY62 and PgWRKY65 indicates their probable involvement in both dehydration and salinity stress responses in pearl millet. Functional characterization of identified PgWRKYs can be useful in delineating their role behind the natural stress tolerance of pearl millet against harsh environmental conditions. Further, these PgWRKYs can be employed in genome editing for millet crop improvement.
The bHLH transcription factor, PPLS1, interacts with SiMYB85 to control the color of pulvinus and leaf sheath by regulating anthocyanin biosynthesis in foxtail millet (Setaria italica). Foxtail millet (Setaria italica), a self-pollinated crop with numerous small florets, is difficult for cross-pollination. The color of pulvinus and leaf sheath with purple being dominant to green is an indicative character and often used for screening authentic hybrids in foxtail millet crossing. Deciphering molecular mechanism controlling this trait would greatly facilitate genetic improvement of cultivars in foxtail millet. Here, using the F
A simple and robust Agrobacterium-mediated gene expression system in the C4 panicoid model crop, foxtail millet has been developed with up to 27 % transformation efficiency. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) is a model crop to study C
Little is known regarding insect defense pathways in Setaria viridis (setaria), a model system for panicoid grasses, including Zea mays (maize). It is thus of interest to compare insect herbivory responses of setaria and maize. Here we use metabolic, phylogenetic, and gene expression analyses to measure a subset of jasmonic acid (JA)-related defense responses to leaf-chewing caterpillars. Phylogenetic comparisons of known defense-related maize genes were used to identify putative orthologs in setaria, and candidates were tested by quantitative PCR to determine transcriptional responses to insect challenge. Our findings show that while much of the core JA-related metabolic and genetic responses appear conserved between setaria and maize, production of downstream secondary metabolites such as benzoxazinoids and herbivore-induced plant volatiles are dissimilar. This diversity of chemical defenses and gene families involved in secondary metabolism among grasses presents new opportunities for cross species engineering. The high degree of genetic similarity and ease of orthologous gene identification between setaria and maize make setaria an excellent species for translational genetic studies, but the species specificity of downstream insect defense chemistry makes some pathways unamenable to cross-species comparisons.
Five laccase genes are potentially involved in developmental lignification in the model C4 grass Setaria viridis and their different tissue specificities suggest subfunctionalization events. Plant laccases are copper-containing glycoproteins involved in monolignol oxidation and, therefore, their activity is essential for lignin polymerization. Although these enzymes belong to large multigene families with highly redundant members, not all of them are thought to be involved in lignin metabolism. Here, we report on the genome-wide characterization of the laccase gene family in the model C4 grass Setaria viridis and further identification of the members potentially involved in monolignol oxidation. A total of 52 genes encoding laccases (SvLAC1 to SvLAC52) were found in the genome of S. viridis, and phylogenetic analyses showed that these genes were heterogeneously distributed among the characteristic six subclades of the family and are under relaxed selective constraints. The observed expansion in the total number of genes in this species was mainly caused by tandem duplications within subclade V, which accounts for 68% of the whole family. Comparative phylogenetic analyses showed that the expansion of subclade V is specifically observed for the Paniceae tribe within the Panicoideae subfamily in grasses. Five SvLAC genes (SvLAC9, SvLAC13, SvLAC15, SvLAC50, and SvLAC52) fulfilled the criteria established to identify lignin-related candidates: (1) phylogenetic proximity to previously characterized lignin-related laccases from other species, (2) similar expression pattern to that observed for lignin biosynthetic genes in the S. viridis elongating internode, and (3) high expression in S. viridis tissues undergoing active lignification. In addition, in situ hybridization experiments not only confirmed that these selected SvLAC genes were expressed in lignifying cells, but also that their expression showed different tissue specificities, suggesting subfunctionalization events within the family. These five laccase genes are strong candidates to be involved in lignin polymerization in S. viridis and might be good targets for lignin bioengineering strategies.
Soil salinity is a global environmental challenge for crop production. Understanding the uptake and transport properties of salt in plants is crucial to evaluate their potential for growth in high salinity soils and as a basis for engineering varieties with increased salt tolerance. Positron emission tomography (PET), traditionally used in medical and animal imaging applications for assessing and quantifying the dynamic bio-distribution of molecular species, has the potential to provide useful measurements of salt transport dynamics in an intact plant. Here we report on the feasibility of studying the dynamic transport of
Plant viruses can be engineered to carry sequences that direct silencing of target host genes, expression of heterologous proteins, or editing of host genes. A set of foxtail mosaic virus (FoMV) vectors was developed that can be used for transient gene expression and single guide RNA delivery for Cas9-mediated gene editing in maize,
CBL-interacting protein kinases (CIPKs) have been shown to regulate a variety of environmental stress-related signalling pathways in plants. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv) is known worldwide as a relatively stress-tolerant C4 crop species. Although the foxtail millet genome sequence has been released, little is known about the functions of CIPKs in foxtail millet. Therefore, a systematic genome-wide analysis of CIPK genes in foxtail millet was performed. In total, 35 CIPK members were identified in foxtail millet and divided into four subgroups (I to IV) on the basis of their phylogenetic relationships. Phylogenetic and gene structure analyses clearly divided all SiCIPKs into intron-poor and intron-rich clades. Cis-element analysis subsequently indicated that these SiCIPKs may be involved in responses to abiotic stimuli, hormones, and light signalling during plant growth and development, and stress-induced expression profile analysis revealed that all the SiCIPKs are involved in various stress signalling pathways. These results suggest that the CIPK genes in foxtail millet exhibit the basic characteristics of CIPK family members and play important roles in response to abiotic stresses. The results of this study will contribute to future functional characterization of abiotic stress responses mediated by CIPKs in foxtail millet.
Although sugar regulates photosynthesis, the signalling pathways underlying this process remain elusive, especially for C4 crops. To address this knowledge gap and identify potential candidate genes, we treated Setaria viridis (C4 model) plants acclimated to medium light intensity (ML, 500 µmol m-2 s-1) with low (LL, 50 µmol m-2 s-1) or high (HL, 1000 µmol m-2 s-1) light for 4 d and observed the consequences on carbon metabolism and the transcriptome of source leaves. LL impaired photosynthesis and reduced leaf content of signalling sugars (glucose, sucrose, and trehalose-6-phosphate). In contrast, HL strongly induced sugar accumulation without repressing photosynthesis. LL more profoundly impacted the leaf transcriptome, including photosynthetic genes. LL and HL contrastingly altered the expression of hexokinase (HXK) and sucrose-non-fermenting 1 (Snf1)-related protein kinase 1 (SnRK1) sugar sensors and trehalose pathway genes. The expression of key target genes of HXK and SnRK1 were affected by LL and sugar depletion, while surprisingly HL and strong sugar accumulation only slightly repressed the SnRK1 signalling pathway. In conclusion, we demonstrate that LL profoundly impacted photosynthesis and the transcriptome of S. viridis source leaves, while HL altered sugar levels more than LL. We also present the first evidence that sugar signalling pathways in C4 source leaves may respond to light intensity and sugar accumulation differently from C3 source leaves.
Abscission is a process in which plants shed their parts, and is mediated by a particular set of cells, the abscission zone (AZ). In grasses (Poaceae), the position of the AZ differs among species, raising the question of whether its anatomical structure and genetic control are conserved. The ancestral position of the AZ was reconstructed. A combination of light microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, RNA-Seq analyses and RNA in situ hybridisation were used to compare three species, two (weedy rice and Brachypodium distachyon) with the AZ in the ancestral position and one (Setaria viridis) with the AZ in a derived position below a cluster of flowers (spikelet). Rice and Brachypodium are more similar anatomically than Setaria. However, the cell wall properties and the transcriptome of rice and Brachypodium are no more similar to each other than either is to Setaria. The set of genes expressed in the studied tissues is generally conserved across species, but the precise developmental and positional patterns of expression and gene networks are almost entirely different. Transcriptional regulation of AZ development appears to be extensively rewired among the three species, leading to distinct anatomical and morphological outcomes.
The core set of biosynthetic genes potentially involved in developmental lignification was identified in the model C4 grass Setaria viridis. Lignin has been recognized as a major recalcitrant factor negatively affecting the processing of plant biomass into bioproducts. However, the efficient manipulation of lignin deposition in order to generate optimized crops for the biorefinery requires a fundamental knowledge of several aspects of lignin metabolism, including regulation, biosynthesis and polymerization. The current availability of an annotated genome for the model grass Setaria viridis allows the genome-wide characterization of genes involved in the metabolic pathway leading to the production of monolignols, the main building blocks of lignin. Here we performed a comprehensive study of monolignol biosynthetic genes as an initial step into the characterization of lignin metabolism in S. viridis. A total of 56 genes encoding bona fide enzymes catalyzing the consecutive ten steps of the monolignol biosynthetic pathway were identified in the S. viridis genome. A combination of comparative phylogenetic studies, high-throughput expression analysis and quantitative RT-PCR analysis was further employed to identify the family members potentially involved in developmental lignification. Accordingly, 14 genes clustered with genes from closely related species with a known function in lignification and showed an expression pattern that correlates with lignin deposition. These genes were considered the "core lignin toolbox" responsible for the constitutive, developmental lignification in S. viridis. These results provide the basis for further understanding lignin deposition in C4 grasses and will ultimately allow the validation of biotechnological strategies to produce crops with enhanced processing properties.
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is a nutrient-rich food source traditionally grown in arid and semi-arid areas, as it is well adapted to drought climate. Yet there is limited information as how the crop responses to the changing climate. In order to investigate the response of foxtail millet to elevated [CO
Plant cell walls play a fundamental role in several ways, providing structural support for cells, resistance against pathogens and facilitating the communication between cells. The glycosyltransferase family 8 (GT8) is involved in the formation of the plant cell wall. However, the evolutionary relationship and the functional differentiation of this important gene family remain obscure in Gramineae crop genomes. In the present investigation, we identified 269 GT8 genes in the seven Gramineae representative crop genomes, namely, 33 in
Cysteine is the first organic molecule generated during the assimilation of sulfate. As such, cysteine and its derivatives are always essential signal molecules and thus have important roles in the regulation of many plant processes. O-acetylserine (thiol) lyase (OASTL) catalyzes the last step of the biosynthesis of cysteine. At present, detailed and comprehensive work about these enzymes has only been reported from the plant Arabidopsis thaliana, though sporadic studies on OASTL have been conducted on other dicots, such as spinach and soybean. However, few reports on the functions of OASTLs in monocots have been found in the literature. Here in this study, we obtained four SiOASTL genes (SiOASTL7, SiOASTL8, SiOASTL9 and SiOASTL10) from foxtail millet and analyzed their potential functions. Phylogenetically, the four SiOASTL genes did not belong to any published subfamily of the OASTL genes; instead they constituted a new subfamily specific to the OASTL genes from monocots. In sequencing, we found that with the exception of the pseudogene SiOASTL8, proteins encoded by the other three genes exhibited high similarity with OASTL proteins from Arabidopsis, though the critical PLP-binding sites of both SiOASTL7 and SiOASTL10 were missing. The enzymatic activity assays demonstrated that SiOASTL9 has the ability to catalyze the biosynthesis of both cysteine and S-sulfocysteine, while SiOASTL7 and SiOASTL10 did not possess any previously reported catalyzing abilities. In addition, the gene expression pattern analysis showed that all four genes were widely expressed in various tissues of foxtail millet, and all had a preference in the leaves. Under abiotic stresses, the expression of these genes could be induced by salt and drought stress. Our finding that cadmium could only up-regulate the transcription of SlOASTL8 and SlOASTL9, further indicates the diversified responses of SiOASTLs to abiotic stresses.
In the present study, we investigated whether Ca2+ application alleviates salinity-induced damage in foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.). We evaluated the stress-related ion balance, physiological activity and gene expression involved in plant defences against salinity exposure. Twenty-one-day-old foxtail millet was maintained in sand culture for 7 days and subjected to one of seven treatments: half-strength modified Hoagland solution (the control), 1.0% NaCl, 1.0% NaCl+2.5mM Ca2+, 1.0% NaCl+5.0mM Ca2+, 1.0% NaCl+7.5mM Ca2+, 1.0% NaCl+10.0mM Ca2+, 1.0% NaCl+12.5mM Ca2+. The addition of Ca2+ significantly increased shoot and root height and weight relative to calcium absent treatment and corrected the ion imbalance by increasing Ca2+, Mg2+ and K+, and decreasing Na+ in the leaves and roots. It increased chlorophyll content and root activity and decreased the relative electrolyte leakage in the roots and leaves. Calcium application significantly upregulated superoxide dismutase and catalase, increased total protein, and decreased malondialdehyde and H2O2. Finally, the addition of Ca2+ upregulated the expression of APX, SOD and CAT. It was found that 10.0mM Ca2+ was the optimal concentration for alleviating salt stress injury in foxtail millet.
Chromatins are not randomly packaged in the nucleus and their organization plays important roles in transcription regulation, which is best studied in the mammalian models. Using in situ Hi-C, we have compared the 3D chromatin architectures of rice mesophyll and endosperm, foxtail millet bundle sheath and mesophyll, and maize bundle sheath, mesophyll and endosperm tissues. We found that their global A/B compartment partitions are stable across tissues, while local A/B compartment has tissue-specific dynamic associated with differential gene expression. Plant domains are largely stable across tissues, while new domain border formations are often associated with transcriptional activation in the region. Genes inside plant domains are not conserved across species, and lack significant co-expression behavior unlike those in mammalian TADs. Although we only observed chromatin loops between gene islands in the large genomes, the maize loop gene pairs' syntenic orthologs have shorter physical distances in small genome monocots, suggesting that loops instead of domains might have conserved biological function. Our study showed that plants' chromatin features might not have conserved biological functions as the mammalian ones.
LIM proteins have been found to play important roles in many life activities, including the regulation of gene expression, construction of the cytoskeleton, signal transduction and metabolic regulation. Because of their important roles in many aspects of plant development,
Abscisic acid (ABA) is an essential phytohormone that regulates growth, development and adaptation of plants to environmental stresses. In Arabidopsis and other higher plants, ABA signal transduction involves three core components namely PYR/PYL/RCAR ABA receptors (PYLs), type 2C protein phosphatases (PP2Cs) and class III SNF-1-related protein kinase 2 (SnRK2s). In the present study, we reported the identification and characterization of the core ABA signaling components in Setaria viridis, an emerging model plant for cereals and feedstock crops presenting C4 metabolism, leading to the identification of eight PYL (SvPYL1 to 8), twelve PP2C (SvPP2C1 to 12) and eleven SnRK2 (SvSnRK2.1 through SvSnRK2.11) genes. In order to study the expression profiles of these genes, two different S. viridis accessions (A10.1 and Ast-1) were submitted to drought, salinity and cold stresses, in addition to application of exogenous ABA. Differential gene expression profiles were observed in each treatment and plant genotype, demonstrating variations of ABA stress responses within the same species. These differential responses to stresses were also assessed by physiological measurements such as photosynthesis, stomatal conductance and transpiration rate. This study allows a detailed analysis of gene expression of the core ABA signaling components in Setaria viridis submitted to different treatments and provides suitable targets for genetic engineering of C4 plants aiming tolerance to abiotic stresses.
The introgression of apomixis in major seed crops, would guarantee self-seeding of superior heterotic seeds over generations. In the grass species Paspalum simplex, apomixis is controlled by a single locus in which recombination is blocked. In the perspective of isolating the genetic determinants of apomixis, we report data on sequencing, in silico mapping and expression analysis of some of the genes contained in two cloned genomic regions of the apomixis locus of P. simplex. In silico mapping allowed us to identify a conserved synteny group homoeologous to the apomixis locus, located on a telomeric position of chromosomes 12, 8, 3 and 4 of rice, Sorghum bicolor, Setaria italica and Brachypodium distachyum, respectively, and on a more centromeric position of maize chromosome 1. Selected genes of the apomixis locus expressed sense and antisense transcripts in reproductively committed cells of sexual and apomictic ovules. Some of the genes considered here expressed apomixis-specific allelic variants which showed partial non-overlapping expression patterns with alleles shared by sexual and apomictic reproductive phenotypes. Our findings open new routes for the isolation of the genetic determinants of apomixis and, in perspective, for its introgression in crop grasses.
Potassium (K) is essential to plant growth and development. Foxtail millet (Setaria italic L.) is an important fodder grain crop in arid and semi-arid regions of Asia and Africa because of its strong tolerance to drought and barren stresses. The molecular mechanisms of physiological and biochemical responses and regulations to various abiotic stresses such as low potassium conditions in foxtail millet are not fully understood, which hinders the research and exploitation of this valuable resource. In this research, we demonstrated that the millet variety Longgu 25 was the most insensitive variety to low potassium stress among other five varieties. The transcriptome analysis of Longgu 25 variety revealed a total of 26,192 and 26,849 genes from the K This study provides a global view of transcriptomic resources relevant to the K
The C-terminally encoded peptide (CEP) family has been shown to play vital roles in plant growth. Although a genome-wide analysis of this family has been performed in Arabidopsis, little is known regarding CEPs in apple ( Here, a comprehensive bioinformatics approach was applied to identify MdCEPs in apple, and 12 MdCEP1 peptide had an inhibitory effect on root growth of apple seedlings, indicating that MdCEP1 played a negative role in root development. In addition, the serine and glycine residues remained conserved within the CEP domains, and MdCEP1 lost its function after mutation of these two key amino acids, suggesting that Ser Taken together, Ser
Aquaporins are versatile proteins involved in several biological as well as molecular functions, and they have been extensively studied in various plant systems. Increasing evidences indicate their role in biotic and abiotic stresses, and therefore, studying these proteins in a naturally stress-tolerant crop would provide further insights into the roles of this important protein family. Given this, the present study was performed in foxtail millet (Setaria italica), a model plant for studying biofuel, stress tolerance, and C
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv.), the second most cultivated millet species, is well adapted to diverse environments and remains an important cereal food and forage crop in arid and semiarid regions worldwide. A symbolic crop for indigenous Austronesian peoples, foxtail millet has been cultivated in Taiwan for more than 5,000 years, and landraces reflect diversifying selection for various food applications. A total of 124 accessions collected within Taiwan were assessed for Wx genotypes. Four identified Wx alleles, I, III, IV, and IX were caused by insertion of various transposable elements (TEs) and resulted in endosperm with non-waxy, low amylose content (AC), and waxy, respectively. A total of 16.9%, 4.0%, 49.2%, and 29.8% of accessions were classified as type I, III, IV, and IX, respectively; approximately half of the accessions belonged to the waxy type, indicating that glutinous grains were favored for making traditional food and wine. The TE insertion affected splicing efficiency rather than accuracy, leading to significantly reduced expression of wx in types III, IV, and IX, although their transcripts were the same as wild-type, type I. Consequently, the granule-bound starch synthase I (GBSSI) contents of the three mutated genotypes were relatively low, leading to waxy or low AC endosperm, and the Wx genotypes could explain 78% of variance in AC. The geographic distribution of Wx genotypes are associated with culinary preferences and migration routes of Taiwanese indigenous peoples-in particular, the genotype of landraces collected from Orchid Island was distinct from those from Taiwan Island. This information on the major gene regulating starch biosynthesis in foxtail millet endosperm can be applied to breeding programs for grain quality, and contributes to knowledge of Austronesian cultures.
Superoxide dismutases (SODs) play important roles in plant growth, development, and response to abiotic stresses. Despite SOD gene families have been identified in various plant species, little is known in foxtail millet (
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L. P. Beauv) has been considered as a tractable model crop in recent years due to its short growing cycle, lower amount of repetitive DNA, inbreeding nature, small diploid genome, and outstanding abiotic stress-tolerance characteristics. With modern agriculture facing various adversities, it's urgent to dissect the mechanisms of how foxtail millet responds and adapts to drought and stress on the proteomic-level. In this research, a total of 2474 differentially expressed proteins were identified by quantitative proteomic analysis after subjecting foxtail millet seedlings to drought conditions. 321 of these 2474 proteins exhibited significant expression changes, including 252 up-regulated proteins and 69 down-regulated proteins. The resulting proteins could then be divided into different categories, such as stress and defense responses, photosynthesis, carbon metabolism, ROS scavenging, protein synthesis, etc., according to Gene Ontology annotation. Proteins implicated in fatty acid and amino acid metabolism, polyamine biosynthesis, hormone metabolism, and cell wall modifications were also identified. These obtained differential proteins and their possible biological functions under drought stress all suggested that various physiological and metabolic processes might function cooperatively to configure a new dynamic homeostasis in organisms. The expression patterns of five drought-responsive proteins were further validated using western blot analysis. The qRT-PCR was also carried out to analyze the transcription levels of 21 differentially expressed proteins. The results showed large inconsistency in the variation between proteins and the corresponding mRNAs, which showed once again that post-transcriptional modification performs crucial roles in regulating gene expression. The results offered a valuable inventory of proteins that may be involved in drought response and adaption, and provided a regulatory network of different metabolic pathways under stress stimulation. This study will illuminate the stress tolerance mechanisms of foxtail millet, and shed some light on crop germplasm breeding and innovation.
Foxtail millet is very a drought-tolerant crop. Basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors are involved in many drought-stress responses, but foxtail millet bHLH genes have been scarcely examined. We identified 149 foxtail millet bHLH genes in a genome-wide analysis and performed Swiss-Prot, GO, and KEGG pathway analyses for these genes. Phylogenetic analyses placed the genes into 25 clades, with some remaining orphans. We identified homologs based on gene trees and Swiss-Prot annotation. We also inferred that some homologs underwent positive selection in foxtail millet ancestors, and selected motifs differed among homologs. Expression of eight foxtail millet bHLH genes varied with drought stress. One of these genes was localized to a QTL that contributes to drought tolerance in foxtail millet. We also perform a cis-acting regulatory element analysis on foxtail millet bHLH genes and some drought-induced genes. Foxtail millet bHLH genes were inferred to have a possible key role in drought tolerance. This study clarifies both the function of foxtail millet bHLH genes and drought tolerance in foxtail millet.
The morphological and functional diversity of plant form is governed by dynamic gene regulatory networks. In cereal crops, grain and/or pollen-bearing inflorescences exhibit vast architectural diversity and developmental complexity, yet the underlying genetic framework is only partly known.
Trihelix transcription factors (TTF) play important roles in plant growth and response to adversity stress. Until now, genome-wide identification and analysis of this gene family in foxtail millet has not been available. Here, we identified TTF genes in the foxtail millet and its grass relatives, and characterized their functional domains. As to sequence divergence, TTF genes were previously divided into five subfamilies, I-V. We found that Trihelix family members in foxtail millet and other grasses mostly preserved their ancestral chromosomal locations during millions of years' evolution. Six amino acid sites of the SIP1 subfamily possibly were likely subjected to significant positive selection. Highest expression level was observed in the spica, with the SIP1 subfamily having highest expression level. As to the origination and expansion of the gene family, notably we showed that a subgroup of subfamily IV was the oldest, and therefore was separated to define a new subfamily O. Overtime, starting from the subfamily O, certain genes evolved to form subfamilies III and I, and later from subfamily I to develop subfamilies II and V. The oldest gene, Si1g016284, has the most structural changes, and a high expression in different tissues. What's more interesting is that it may have bridge the interaction with different proteins. By performing phylogenetic analysis using non-plant species, notably we showed that a subgroup of subfamily IV was the oldest, and therefore was separated to define a new subfamily O. Starting from the subfamily O, certain genes evolved to form other subfamilies. Our work will contribute to understanding the structural and functional innovation of Trihelix transcription factor, and the evolutionary trajectory.
The rhizosheath, a layer of soil particles that adheres firmly to the root surface by a combination of root hairs and mucilage, may improve tolerance to drought stress. Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv. (foxtail millet), a member of the Poaceae family, is an important food and fodder crop in arid regions and forms a larger rhizosheath under drought conditions. Rhizosheath formation under drought conditions has been studied, but the regulation of root hair growth and rhizosheath size in response to soil moisture remains unclear. To address this question, in this study we monitored root hair growth and rhizosheath development in response to a gradual decline in soil moisture. Here, we determined that a soil moisture level of 10%-14% (w/w) stimulated greater rhizosheath production compared to other soil moisture levels. Root hair density and length also increased at this soil moisture level, which was validated by measurement of the expression of root hair-related genes. These findings contribute to our understanding of rhizosheath formation in response to soil water stress.
Lack of an efficient transformation system has hampered the molecular breeding of Agaricus bisporus. Here, we describe a highly efficient Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system for A. bisporus using foxtail millet (Setaria italica L. Beauv) grains as cultivation and infection media. Mycelium-millet complexes were prepared for co-culture and treated with ultrasonication for 10 s to improve infection efficiency. After a 72-h culture period, the newly grown mycelium-surrounded millet grain was transferred to selection medium supplemented with 200 μg/mL cefotaxime and 15 μg/mL hygromycin B (hyg) to screen positive transformants. Putative transformants were analyzed for the presence of the hyg gene by polymerase chain reaction and Southern blotting. Expression of eGFP in A. bisporus transformants was detected by fluorescence imaging, and the β-glucuronidase (GUS) protein was detected by histochemical staining. Our protocol resulted in an average 53.85% transformation frequency, and over 85% of the transformants tested remained mitotically stable, even after five successive rounds of subculturing. A feasible method for A. bisporus mushroom transformation using foxtail millet as an innovative culture medium was developed, which will benefit future functional genetic studies of this mushroom.
HD-Zip proteins represent the major transcription factors in higher plants, playing essential roles in plant development and stress responses. Foxtail millet is a crop to investigate the systems biology of millet and biofuel grasses and the HD-Zip gene family has not been studied in foxtail millet. For further investigation of the expression profile of the HD-Zip gene family in foxtail millet, a comprehensive genome-wide expression analysis was conducted in this study. We found 47 protein-encoding genes in foxtail millet using BLAST search tools; the putative proteins were classified into four subfamilies, namely, subfamilies I, II, III, and IV. Gene structure and motif analysis indicate that the genes in one subfamily were conserved. Promotor analysis showed that HD-Zip gene was involved in abiotic stress. Duplication analysis revealed that 8 (~17%) hdz genes were tandemly duplicated and 28 (58%) were segmentally duplicated; purifying duplication plays important roles in gene expansion. Microsynteny analysis revealed the maximum relationship in foxtail millet-sorghum and foxtail millet-rice. Expression profiling upon the abiotic stresses of drought and high salinity and the biotic stress of ABA revealed that some genes regulated responses to drought and salinity stresses via an ABA-dependent process, especially
Myeloblastosis (MYB) transcription factors are one of the largest families of transcription factors in higher plants. They play an important role in plant development, defense response processes, and non-biological stresses, i.e., drought stress. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.), originated in China, is resistant to drought and low nutrition stresses and has been regarded as an ideal material for studying abiotic stress resistance in monocotyledon. In this study, we ran a transcription profile analysis of zheng 204 under low-nitrogen conditions and identified a MYB-like transcription factor SiMYB42, which was up-regulated under low-nitrogen stress. Phylogenetic tree analysis showed that SiMYB42 belongs to R2R3-MYB subfamily and has two MYB conserved domains. Expression pattern analysis showed that SiMYB42 was significantly up-regulated under various stress conditions, including low-nitrogen stress, high salt, drought and ABA conditions. The results of subcellular localization, quantitative real-time PCR and transcriptional activation analysis indicated that SiMYB42 protein localizes to the nucleus and cell membrane of plant cells, mainly expressed in the leaf or root of foxtail millet, and has transcription activation activity. Functional analysis showed that there was no significant difference between transgenic SiMYB42 Arabidopsis and wild-type (WT) Arabidopsis under normal conditions; however, under low-nitrogen condition, the root length, surface area and seedling fresh weight in transgenic SiMYB42 Arabidopsis, were significantly higher than their counterparts in WT. These results suggest that SiMYB42 transgenic plants exhibit higher tolerance to low-nitrogen stress. Expression levels of nitrate transporters genes NRT2.1, NRT2.4 and NRT2.5, which are the transcriptional targets of SiMYB42, were higher in transgenic SiMYB42 Arabidopsis plants than those in WT; the promoter regions of NRT2.1, NRT2.4 and NRT2.5 all have MYB binding sites. These results indicate that SiMYB42 might enhance foxtail millet tolerance to low-nitrogen condition through regulating the expression of nitrate transporter genes. This study reveals the possible functions of SiMYB42 in a low-nitrogen stress response pathway, and provides a foundation for further understanding the entire regulation network of foxtail millet in response to low-nitrogen stress.
Setaria viridis is one of the most important model grasses in studying monocot plant biology. Transient gene expression study is a very important tool in plant biotechnology, functional genomics, and CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing technology via particle bombardment. In this study, a particle bombardment-mediated protocol was developed to introduce DNA into Setaria viridis in vitro leaf explants. In addition, physical and biological parameters, such as helium pressure, distance from stopping screen to the target tissues, DNA concentration, and number of bombardments, were tested and optimized. Optimum concentration of transient GFP expression was achieved using 1.5 ug plasmid DNA with 0.6 mm gold particles and 6 cm bombardment distance, using 1,100 psi. Doubling the bombardment instances provides the maximum number of foci of transient GFP expression. This simple protocol will be helpful for genomics studies in the S. viridis monocot model.
Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) is the key platform for the quantitative analysis of gene expression in a wide range of experimental systems and conditions. However, the accuracy and reproducibility of gene expression quantification via RT-qPCR is entirely dependent on the identification of reliable reference genes for data normalisation. Green foxtail ( Eleven putative candidate reference genes were identified and examined across thirteen different This approach readily demonstrated the suitably of the three selected reference genes for the accurate and reliable normalisation of
Heterotrimeric G-proteins are key regulators of a multitude of growth and development pathways in eukaryotes. Along with the conserved G-protein components found in all organisms, plants have certain novel variants with unique architecture, which may be involved in the regulation of plant-specific traits. The higher plant-specific type III (or Class C) Gγ protein, which possesses a large C terminal extension, represented by AGG3 in Arabidopsis, is one such variant of canonical Gγ proteins. The type III Gγ proteins are involved in regulation of many agronomically important traits in plants, including seed yield, organ size regulation, abscisic acid (ABA)-dependent signaling and stress responses, and nitrogen use efficiency. However, the extant data, especially in the monocots, present a relatively complex and sometimes contradictory picture of the regulatory role of these proteins. It remains unclear if the positive traits observed in certain naturally occurring populations are due to the presence of specific allelic variants of the proteins or due to the altered expression of the gene itself. To address these possibilities, we have overexpressed the Arabidopsis
Despite the differences of the host, parasitic nematodes may share commonalities in their parasitizing genes. Setaria digitata novel protein (SDNP) is such an entity which is parasitic nematode-specific and having sequence similarities with those of W. bancrofti, B. malayi, Loa loa and Onchocerca volvulus. Post-transcriptional gene silencing by siRNA mediated RNA interference (RNAi) is a widely used technique in functional genomics. Though the technique has been used in several free-living, plant and animal parasitic nematodes, it has not yet been tried out for the filarial worm S. digitata. In this study, we developed an effective siRNA delivery method by microinjection and utilized the siRNAi tool to knockdown SDNP to study the phenotypic and cellular changes associated with the interference. qPCR analysis revealed, a significant reduction of SDNP transcript levels following siRNA microinjection into S. digitata adult worms. Similarly, immunohistochemical staining indicated a reduction of SDNP protein expression. Furthermore, worms treated with siRNA showed a significant reduction of microfilariae release together with embryonic lethality by arresting an early developmental stage compared to non-treated worms. A distinct motility reduction was also observed in treated worms compared to non-treated counterparts. This is the first report of the amenability of S. digitata to the siRNA induced RNAi. The presence of inter-domain linkers of muscle-specific twitchin kinase and calcium-dependent protein kinase isoform CDPK1 together with what our results revealed suggest that SDNP is most likely a protein involved in muscle movement and growth and development of the nematode. Hence SDNP has the characteristics of a potential drug target.
Feruloylation of arabinoxylan (AX) in grass cell walls is a key determinant of recalcitrance to enzyme attack, making it a target for improvement of grass crops, and of interest in grass evolution. Definitive evidence on the genes responsible is lacking so we studied a candidate gene that we identified within the BAHD acyl-CoA transferase family. We used RNA interference (RNAi) silencing of orthologs in the model grasses Setaria viridis (SvBAHD01) and Brachypodium distachyon (BdBAHD01) and determined effects on AX feruloylation. Silencing of SvBAHD01 in Setaria resulted in a c. 60% decrease in AX feruloylation in stems consistently across four generations. Silencing of BdBAHD01 in Brachypodium stems decreased feruloylation much less, possibly due to higher expression of functionally redundant genes. Setaria SvBAHD01 RNAi plants showed: no decrease in total lignin, approximately doubled arabinose acylated by p-coumarate, changes in two-dimensional NMR spectra of unfractionated cell walls consistent with biochemical estimates, no effect on total biomass production and an increase in biomass saccharification efficiency of 40-60%. We provide the first strong evidence for a key role of the BAHD01 gene in AX feruloylation and demonstrate that it is a promising target for improvement of grass crops for biofuel, biorefining and animal nutrition applications.
Inflorescence architecture is a key determinant of yield potential in many crops and is patterned by the organization and developmental fate of axillary meristems. In cereals, flowers and grain are borne from spikelets, which differentiate in the final iteration of axillary meristem branching. In
Phosphate is an essential nutrient for plant growth and is acquired from the environment and distributed within the plant in part through the action of phosphate transporters of the PHT1 family. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is an orphan crop essential to the food security of many small farmers in Asia and Africa and is a model system for other millets. A novel Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and direct plant regeneration procedure was developed from shoot apex explants and used to downregulate expression of 3 members of the PHT1 phosphate transporter family SiPHT1;2 SiPHT1;3 and SiPHT1;4. Transformants were recovered with close to 10% efficiency. The downregulation of individual transporters was confirmed by RT-PCR. Downregulation of individual transporters significantly reduced the total and inorganic P contents in shoot and root tissues and increased the number of lateral roots and root hairs showing they have non-redundant roles. Downregulation of SiPHT1;2 had the strongest effect on total and inorganic P in shoot and root tissues. Complementation experiments in S. cerevisiae provide evidence for the ability of SiPHT1;1, 1;2, 1;3, 1;7 and 1;8 to function as high affinity Pi transporters. This work will aid development of improved millet varieties for global food security.
Plant responses to the environment are shaped by external stimuli and internal signaling pathways. In both the model plant
The foxtail millet NAC transcription factor NAC1, an ortholog of Arabidopsis NAP, is induced by ABA and senescence and accelerates leaf senescence by promoting ABA biosynthesis. Leaf senescence, a unique developmental stage involving macromolecule degradation and nutrient remobilization, is finely tuned and tightly controlled by different gene families. NO APICAL MERISTEM, ARABIDOPSIS ATAF1, and CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON (NAC) transcription factors have been demonstrated to be involved in the modulation of leaf senescence in many land plant species. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.), an important food and fodder crop, has been studied for its strong stress tolerance and potential to be a biofuel model plant. However, the functional roles of senescence-associated NACs in foxtail millet are still unknown. In this study, we characterized a nuclear localized NAC transcription factor, SiNAC1, which is induced by senescence and concentrated in senescent leaves in foxtail millet. SiNAC1 also positively responds to abscisic acid (ABA) treatment in foxtail millet. Moreover, SiNAC1 promotes the natural and dark-induced leaf senescence by an ABA-dependent manner in Arabidopsis thaliana. NCED2 and NCED3 are elevated by SiNAC1 overexpression, which subsequently promotes ABA biosynthesis in Arabidopsis. Finally, as a homolog of AtNAP, SiNAC1 can partially rescue the delayed leaf senescence phenotype in atnap mutants. Overall, our results demonstrate that SiNAC1 functions as a positive regulator of leaf senescence and is involved in a positive feedback loop via ABA biosynthesis and leaf senescence.
Understanding drought-tolerance mechanisms and identifying genetic dominance are important for crop improvement. Setaria italica, which is extremely drought-tolerant, has been regarded as a model plant for studying stress biology. Moreover, different genotypes of S. italica have evolved various drought-tolerance/avoidance mechanisms that should be elucidated. Physiological and transcriptomic comparisons between drought-tolerant S. italica cultivar 'Yugu1' and drought-sensitive 'An04' were conducted. 'An04' had higher yields and more efficient photosystem activities than 'Yugu1' under well-watered conditions, and this was accompanied by positive brassinosteroid regulatory actions. However, 'An04's growth advantage was severely repressed by drought, while 'Yugu1' maintained normal growth under a water deficiency. High-throughput sequencing suggested that the S. italica transcriptome was severely remodelled by genotype × environment interactions. Expression profiles of genes related to phytohormone metabolism and signalling, transcription factors, detoxification, and other stress-related proteins were characterised, revealing genotype-dependent and -independent drought responses in different S. italica genotypes. Combining our data with drought-tolerance-related QTLs, we identified 20 candidate genes that contributed to germination and early seedling' drought tolerance in S. italica. Our analysis provides a comprehensive picture of how different S. italica genotypes respond to drought, and may be used for the genetic improvement of drought tolerance in Poaceae crops.
Panicle development is an important agronomic trait that aids in determining crop productivity. Foxtail millet and its wild ancestor green foxtail have recently been used as model systems to dissect gene functions. Here, we characterized a recessive mutant of foxtail millet, loose-panicle 1 (lp1), which showed pleiotropic phenotypes, such as a lax primary branching pattern, aberrant branch morphology, semi-dwarfism, and enlarged seed size. The loose panicle phenotype was attributed to increased panicle lengths and decreased primary branch numbers. Map-based cloning, combined with high-throughput sequencing, revealed that LP1, which encodes a novel WRKY transcription factor, is responsible for the mutant phenotype. A phylogenetic analysis revealed that LP1 belongs to the Group I WRKY subfamily, which possesses two WRKY domains (WRKY I and II). A single G-to-A transition in the fifth intron of LP1 resulted in three disorganized splicing events in mutant plants. For each of these aberrant splice variants, the normal C2H2 motif in the WRKY II domain was completely disrupted, resulting in a loss-of-function mutation. LP1 mRNA was expressed in all of the tissues examined, with higher expression levels observed in inflorescences, roots, and seeds at the grain-filling stage. A subcellular localization analysis showed that LP1 predominantly accumulated in the nucleus, which confirmed its role as a transcriptional regulator. This study provides novel insights into the roles of WRKY proteins in regulating reproductive organ development in plants and may help to develop molecular markers associated with crop yields.
Receptor like protein kinases (RLKs) play vital roles in both plant development and stress conditions. Using drought-treated "Yugu 1" as materials, a drought-responsive RLK gene, SiRLK35, was isolated through iTRAQ analysis. In this study, the further analyses of the gene functions were carried out. First, full-length SiRLK35 was amplified by PCR using the cDNA of foxtail millet seedlings as a template. The expression patterns of SiRLK35 under NaCl, PEG, ABA, GA and MeJA treatment were analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), and we found that the expression of SiRLK35 could be induced under different treatments, especially under NaCl treatment. Second, the prokaryotic expression plasmid of SiRLK35 was constructed, and the salt resistance of SiRLK35 was detected by the bacterial plaque growth method. And we uncovered that the growth and tolerance of SiRLK35-containing Escherichia coli strains were in better conditions than control under the NaCl stress. Lastly, pCambia1301P-SiRLK35 was constructed and transformed into rice to obtain transgenic plants. The tolerance of transgenic rice plants to salt stress was higher than that of controls through physiological analysis. We propose that SiRLK35 may participate in salt and stress resistance processes, which could provide potential theoretical foundation for the stress resistance varieties cultivation and breeding of foxtail millet.
Small Heat Shock Proteins (sHSPs)/HSP20 are molecular chaperones that protect plants by preventing protein aggregation during abiotic stress conditions, especially heat stress. Due to global climate change, high temperature is emerging as a major threat to wheat productivity. Thus, the identification of HSP20 and analysis of HSP transcriptional regulation under different abiotic stresses in wheat would help in understanding the role of these proteins in abiotic stress tolerance. We used sequences of known rice and Arabidopsis HSP20 HMM profiles as queries against publicly available wheat genome and wheat full length cDNA databases (TriFLDB) to identify the respective orthologues from wheat. 163 TaHSP20 (including 109 sHSP and 54 ACD) genes were identified and classified according to the sub-cellular localization and phylogenetic relationship with sequenced grass genomes (Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor, Zea mays, Brachypodium distachyon and Setaria italica). Spatio-temporal, biotic and abiotic stress-specific expression patterns in normalized RNA seq and wheat array datasets revealed constitutive as well as inductive responses of HSP20 in different tissues and developmental stages of wheat. Promoter analysis of TaHSP20 genes showed the presence of tissue-specific, biotic, abiotic, light-responsive, circadian and cell cycle-responsive cis-regulatory elements. 14 TaHSP20 family genes were under the regulation of 8 TamiRNA genes. The expression levels of twelve HSP20 genes were studied under abiotic stress conditions in the drought- and heat-tolerant wheat genotype C306. Of the 13 TaHSP20 genes, TaHSP16.9H-CI showed high constitutive expression with upregulation only under salt stress. Both heat and salt stresses upregulated the expression of TaHSP17.4-CI, TaHSP17.7A-CI, TaHSP19.1-CIII, TaACD20.0B-CII and TaACD20.6C-CIV, while TaHSP23.7-MTI was specifically induced only under heat stress. Our results showed that the identified TaHSP20 genes play an important role under different abiotic stress conditions. Thus, the results illustrate the complexity of the TaHSP20 gene family and its stress regulation in wheat, and suggest that sHSPs as attractive breeding targets for improvement of the heat tolerance of wheat.
Drought and other types of abiotic stresses negatively affect plant growth and crop yields. The abscisic acid-, stress-, and ripening-induced (ASR) proteins play important roles in the protection of plants against abiotic stress. However, the regulatory pathway of the gene encoding this protein remains to be elucidated. In this study, the foxtail millet (
Genome-wide methylation analysis of foxtail millet cultivars contrastingly differing in salinity tolerance revealed DNA demethylation events occurring in tolerant cultivar under salinity stress, eventually modulating the expression of stress-responsive genes. Reduced productivity and significant yield loss are the adverse effects of environmental conditions on physiological and biochemical pathways in crop plants. In this context, understanding the epigenetic machinery underlying the tolerance traits in a naturally stress tolerant crop is imperative. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is known for its better tolerance to abiotic stresses compared to other cereal crops. In the present study, methylation-sensitive amplified polymorphism (MSAP) technique was used to quantify the salt-induced methylation changes in two foxtail millet cultivars contrastingly differing in their tolerance levels to salt stress. The study highlighted that the DNA methylation level was significantly reduced in tolerant cultivar compared to sensitive cultivar. A total of 86 polymorphic MSAP fragments were identified, sequenced and functionally annotated. These fragments showed sequence similarity to several genes including ABC transporter, WRKY transcription factor, serine threonine-protein phosphatase, disease resistance, oxidoreductases, cell wall-related enzymes and retrotransposon and transposase like proteins, suggesting salt stress-induced methylation in these genes. Among these, four genes were chosen for expression profiling which showed differential expression pattern between both cultivars of foxtail millet. Altogether, the study infers that salinity stress induces genome-wide DNA demethylation, which in turn, modulates expression of corresponding genes.
TRANSPARENT TESTA GLABRA 1 of Arabidopsis thaliana (AtTTG1) is a WD40 repeat transcription factor that plays multiple roles in plant growth and development, particularly in seed metabolite production. In the present study, to determine whether SiTTG1 of the phylogenetically distant monocot foxtail millet (Setaria italica) has similar functions, we used transgenic Arabidopsis and Nicotiana systems to explore its activities. We found that SiTTG1 functions as a transcription factor. Overexpression of the SiTTG1 gene rescued many of the mutant phenotypes in Arabidopsis ttg1-13 plants. Additionally, SiTTG1 overexpression fully corrected the reduced expression of mucilage biosynthetic genes, and the induced expression of genes involved in accumulation of seed fatty acids and storage proteins in developing seeds of ttg1-13 plants. Ectopic expression of SiTTG1 restored the sensitivity of the ttg1-13 mutant to salinity and high glucose stresses during germination and seedling establishment, and restored altered expression levels of some stress-responsive genes in ttg1-13 seedlings to the wild type level under salinity and glucose stresses. Our results provide information that will be valuable for understanding the function of TTG1 from monocot to dicot species and identifying a promising target for genetic manipulation of foxtail millet to improve the amount of seed metabolites.
Lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) are a class of cysteine-rich soluble proteins having small molecular weights. LTPs participate in flower and seed development, cuticular wax deposition, also play important roles in pathogen and abiotic stress responses. A non-specific LTP gene (
Dof (DNA binding with one finger) proteins, which constitute a class of transcription factors found exclusively in plants, are involved in numerous physiological and biochemical reactions affecting growth and development. A genome-wide analysis of SiDof genes was performed in this study. Thirty five SiDof genes were identified and those genes were unevenly distributed across nine chromosomes in the Seteria italica genome. Protein lengths, molecular weights, and theoretical isoelectric points of SiDofs all vary greatly. Gene structure analysis demonstrated that most SiDof genes lack introns. Phylogenetic analysis of SiDof proteins and Dof proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana, rice, sorghum, and Setaria viridis revealed six major groups. Analysis of RNA-Seq data indicated that SiDof gene expression levels varied across roots, stems, leaves, and spike. In addition, expression profiling of SiDof genes in response to stress suggested that SiDof 7 and SiDof 15 are involved in drought stress signalling. Overall, this study could provide novel information on SiDofs for further investigation in foxtail millet.
Methyl jasmonate (MeJA), a vital cellular regulator, mediates diverse developmental processes and defense responses against environmental stresse. Recently, a novel gasotransmitter, hydrogen sulfide (H2S), was found to have similar functions, but the interactions between H2S and MeJA in the acquisition of cadmium (Cd) tolerance have not been reported. Treating foxtail millet with 1 microM MeJA not only enhanced Cd tolerance and alleviated growth inhibitions but also decreased the contents of hydrogen peroxide, malondialdehyde and Cd in seedlings under 200 microM of Cd stress. Exogenous application of MeJA inhibited the transcript levels of the Natural Resistance-Associated Macrophage Protein (NRAMP1 and NRAMP6) and intensified Cd-induced expression of the homeostasis-related genes (MTP1, MTP12, CAX2 and ZIP4, besides HMA3). In addition, treatment with MeJA induced the production of endogenous H2S. Fumigation with sodium hydrosulfide (H2S donor) significantly enhanced MeJA-induced Cd tolerance, but this ability was weakened when H2S biosynthesis was inhibited with hydroxylamine. These results suggest that pretreatment with MeJA alleviated Cd stress and that this improvement was mediated by H2S in foxtail millet.
Pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) proteins are encoded by a large gene family of approximately 450 members in Arabidopsis and 477 in rice, which characterized by tandem repetitions of a degenerate 35 amino acid characteristic sequence motifs. A large majority of the PPR genes in the higher plants are localized in organelles. Their functions remain as yet largely unknown. The majority of characterized PPR proteins have been found to function in modulating the expression plastid and mitochondrial genes in plants. Here, a genome-wide identification and comparison of the PPR genes from 5 organisms was performed, including the moss Physcomitrella patens, the lycophyte Selaginella moellendorffii, the eudicot Arabidopsis, and the monocots rice and foxtail millet. It appears that the expansion of this gene family prior to the divergence of the euphyllophytes and the lycophytes in land plants. The duplication and divergence rates of the foxtail millet PPR genes (SiPPRs) showed that the expansion period of this gene family around 400 Mya, and indicated that genome segmental duplication was very likely the primary mechanism underlying the expansion of the PPR gene family in vascular plants. An analysis of a complete set of SiPPR genes/proteins that included classification, chromosomal location, orthologous relationships, duplication analysis, and auxiliary motifs is presented. Expression analysis of the SiPPR genes under stress conditions revealed that the expression of 24 SiPPR genes was responsive to abiotic stress. Subcellular localization analysis of 11 PPR proteins indicated that 5 proteins were localized to chloroplasts, that 4 were localized to mitochondria, and that 2 were localized to the cytoplasm. Our results contribute to a more comprehensive understanding the roles of PPR proteins and will be useful in the prioritization of particular PPR proteins for subsequent functional validation studies in foxtail millet.
Autophagy is a cellular degradation process that is highly evolutionarily-conserved in yeast, plants, and animals. In plants, autophagy plays important roles in regulating intracellular degradation and recycling of amino acids in response to nutrient starvation, senescence, and other environmental stresses. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) has strong resistance to stresses and has been proposed as an ideal material for use in the study of the physiological mechanisms of abiotic stress tolerance in plants. Although the genome sequence of foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is available, the characteristics and functions of abiotic stress-related genes remain largely unknown for this species. A total of 37 putative ATG (autophagy-associated genes) genes in the foxtail millet genome were identified. Gene duplication analysis revealed that both segmental and tandem duplication events have played significant roles in the expansion of the ATG gene family in foxtail millet. Comparative synteny mapping between the genomes of foxtail millet and rice suggested that the ATG genes in both species have common ancestors, as their ATG genes were primarily located in similar syntenic regions. Gene expression analysis revealed the induced expression of 31 SiATG genes by one or more phytohormone treatments, 26 SiATG genes by drought, salt and cold, 24 SiATG genes by darkness and 25 SiATG genes by nitrogen starvation. Results of qRT-PCR showing that among 37 SiATG genes, the expression level of SiATG8a was the highest after nitrogen starvation treatment 24 h, suggesting its potential role in tolerance to nutrient starvation. Moreover, the heterologous expression of SiATG8a in rice improved nitrogen starvation tolerance. Compared to wild type rice, the transgenic rice performed better and had higher aboveground total nitrogen content when the plants were grown under nitrogen starvation conditions. Our results deepen understanding about the characteristics and functions of ATG genes in foxtail millet and also identify promising new genetic resources that should be of use in future efforts to develop varieties of foxtail millet and other crop species that have resistance to nitrogen deficiency stress.
The emerging model Setaria viridis with its C4 photosynthesis and adaptation to hot and dry locations is a promising system to investigate water use and abiotic stress tolerance. We investigated the physiological plasticity of six S. viridis natural accessions that originated from different regions of the world under normal conditions and conditions of water-deficit stress and high temperatures. Accessions Zha-1, A10.1 and Ula-1 showed significantly higher leaf water potential (Ψleaf), photosynthesis (A), transpiration (E), and stomatal conductance (gs) rates compared to Ast-1, Aba-1 and Sha-1 when grown under stress conditions. Expression analysis of genes associated with C4 photosynthesis, aquaporins, ABA biosynthesis and signaling including genes involved in stress revealed an increased sensitivity of Ast-1, Aba-1 and Sha-1 to stresses. Correlation analysis of gene expression data with physiological and biochemical changes characterized A10.1 and Ast-1 as two extreme tolerant and sensitive accessions originated from United States and Azerbaijan under water-deficit and heat stress, respectively. Although preliminary, our study demonstrated the plasticity of S. viridis accessions under stress, and allows the identification of tolerant and sensitive accessions that could be use to study the mechanisms associated with stress tolerance and to characterize of the regulatory networks involved in C4 grasses.
Heat shock proteins (HSPs) perform significant roles in conferring abiotic stress tolerance to crop plants. In view of this, HSPs and their encoding genes were extensively characterized in several plant species; however, understanding their structure, organization, evolution and expression profiling in a naturally stress tolerant crop is necessary to delineate their precise roles in stress-responsive molecular machinery. In this context, the present study has been performed in C4 panicoid model, foxtail millet, which resulted in identification of 20, 9, 27, 20 and 37 genes belonging to SiHSP100, SiHSP90, SiHSP70, SiHSP60 and SisHSP families, respectively. Comprehensive in silico characterization of these genes followed by their expression profiling in response to dehydration, heat, salinity and cold stresses in foxtail millet cultivars contrastingly differing in stress tolerance revealed significant upregulation of several genes in tolerant cultivar. SisHSP-27 showed substantial higher expression in response to heat stress in tolerant cultivar, and its over-expression in yeast system conferred tolerance to several abiotic stresses. Methylation analysis of SiHSP genes suggested that, in susceptible cultivar, higher levels of methylation might be the reason for reduced expression of these genes during stress. Altogether, the study provides novel clues on the role of HSPs in conferring stress tolerance.
SET domain-containing genes catalyse histone lysine methylation, which alters chromatin structure and regulates the transcription of genes that are involved in various developmental and physiological processes. The present study identified 53 SET domain-containing genes in C4 panicoid model, foxtail millet (Setaria italica) and the genes were physically mapped onto nine chromosomes. Phylogenetic and structural analyses classified SiSET proteins into five classes (I-V). RNA-seq derived expression profiling showed that SiSET genes were differentially expressed in four tissues namely, leaf, root, stem and spica. Expression analyses using qRT-PCR was performed for 21 SiSET genes under different abiotic stress and hormonal treatments, which showed differential expression of these genes during late phase of stress and hormonal treatments. Significant upregulation of SiSET gene was observed during cold stress, which has been confirmed by over-expressing a candidate gene, SiSET14 in yeast. Interestingly, hypermethylation was observed in gene body of highly differentially expressed genes, whereas methylation event was completely absent in their transcription start sites. This suggested the occurrence of demethylation events during various abiotic stresses, which enhance the gene expression. Altogether, the present study would serve as a base for further functional characterization of SiSET genes towards understanding their molecular roles in conferring stress tolerance.
The urgent need for major gains in industrial crops productivity and in biofuel production from bioenergy grasses have reinforced attention on understanding C4 photosynthesis. Systems biology studies of C4 model plants may reveal important features of C4 metabolism. Here we chose foxtail millet (Setaria italica), as a C4 model plant and developed protocols to perform systems biology studies. As part of the systems approach, we have developed and used a genome-scale metabolic reconstruction in combination with the use of multi-omics technologies to gain more insights into the metabolism of S. italica. mRNA, protein, and metabolite abundances, were measured in mature and immature stem/leaf phytomers, and the multi-omics data were integrated into the metabolic reconstruction framework to capture key metabolic features in different developmental stages of the plant. RNA-Seq reads were mapped to the S. italica resulting for 83% coverage of the protein coding genes of S. italica. Besides revealing similarities and differences in central metabolism of mature and immature tissues, transcriptome analysis indicates significant gene expression of two malic enzyme isoforms (NADP- ME and NAD-ME). Although much greater expression levels of NADP-ME genes are observed and confirmed by the correspondent protein abundances in the samples, the expression of multiple genes combined to the significant abundance of metabolites that participates in C4 metabolism of NAD-ME and NADP-ME subtypes suggest that S. italica may use mixed decarboxylation modes of C4 photosynthetic pathways under different plant developmental stages. The overall analysis also indicates different levels of regulation in mature and immature tissues in carbon fixation, glycolysis, TCA cycle, amino acids, fatty acids, lignin, and cellulose syntheses. Altogether, the multi-omics analysis reveals different biological entities and their interrelation and regulation over plant development. With this study, we demonstrated that this systems approach is powerful enough to complement the functional metabolic annotation of bioenergy grasses.
Major intrinsic proteins (MIPs), commonly known as aquaporins, transport not only water in plants but also other substrates of physiological significance and heavy metals. In most of the higher plants, MIPs are divided into five subfamilies (PIPs, TIPs, NIPs, SIPs and XIPs). Herein, we identified 68, 42, 38 and 28 full-length MIPs, respectively in the genomes of four monocot grass plants, specifically Panicum virgatum, Setaria italica, Sorghum bicolor and Brachypodium distachyon. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the grass plants had only four MIP subfamilies including PIPs, TIPs, NIPs and SIPs without XIPs. Based on structural analysis of the homology models and comparing the primary selectivity-related motifs [two NPA regions, aromatic/arginine (ar/R) selectivity filter and Froger's positions (FPs)] of all plant MIPs that have been experimentally proven to transport non-aqua substrates, we predicted the transport profiles of all MIPs in the four grass plants and also in eight other plants. Groups of MIP subfamilies based on ar/R selectivity filter and FPs were linked to the non-aqua transport profiles. We further deciphered the substrate selectivity profiles of the MIPs in the four grass plants and compared them with their counterparts in rice, maize, soybean, poplar, cotton, Arabidopsis thaliana, Physcomitrella patens and Selaginella moellendorffii. In addition to two NPA regions, ar/R filter and FPs, certain residues, especially in loops B and C, contribute to the functional distinctiveness of MIP groups. Expression analysis of transcripts in different organs indicated that non-aqua transport was related to expression of MIPs since most of the unexpressed MIPs were not predicted to facilitate the transport of non-aqua molecules. Among all MIPs in every plant, TIP (BdTIP1;1, SiTIP1;2, SbTIP2;1 and PvTIP1;2) had the overall highest mean expression. Our study generates significant information for understanding the diversity, evolution, non-aqua transport profiles and insight into comparative transport selectivity of plant MIPs, and provides tools for the development of transgenic plants.
Real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) expression analysis is a powerful analytical technique, but reliable results depend on the use of stable reference genes for proper normalization. This study proposed to test the expression stability of 13 candidate reference genes in Setaria viridis, a monocot species recently proposed as a new C4 model plant. Gene expression stability of these genes was assayed across different tissues and developmental stages of Setaria and under drought or aluminum stress. In general, our results showed Protein Kinase, RNA Binding Protein and SDH as the most stable genes. Moreover, pairwise analysis showed that two reference genes were sufficient to normalize the gene expression data under each condition. By contrast, GAPDH and ACT were the least stably expressed genes tested. Validation of suitable reference genes was carried out to profile the expression of P5CS and GolS during abiotic stress. In addition, normalization of gene expression of SuSy, involved in sugar metabolism, was assayed in the developmental dataset. This study provides a list of reliable reference genes for transcript normalization in S. viridis in different tissues and stages of development and under abiotic stresses, which will facilitate genetic studies in this monocot model plant.
C4 photosynthesis is characterized by a CO2-concentrating mechanism between mesophyll (M) and bundle sheath (BS) cells of leaves. This generates high metabolic fluxes between these cells, through interconnecting plasmodesmata (PD). Quantification of these symplastic fluxes for modeling studies requires accurate quantification of PD, which has proven difficult using transmission electron microscopy. Our new quantitative technique combines scanning electron microscopy and 3D immunolocalization in intact leaf tissues to compare PD density on cell interfaces in leaves of C3 (rice [Oryza sativa] and wheat [Triticum aestivum]) and C4 (maize [Zea mays] and Setaria viridis) monocot species. Scanning electron microscopy quantification of PD density revealed that C4 species had approximately twice the number of PD per pitfield area compared with their C3 counterparts. 3D immunolocalization of callose at pitfields using confocal microscopy showed that pitfield area per M-BS interface area was 5 times greater in C4 species. Thus, the two C4 species had up to nine times more PD per M-BS interface area (S. viridis, 9.3 PD µm(-2); maize, 7.5 PD µm(-2); rice 1.0 PD µm(-2); wheat, 2.6 PD µm(-2)). Using these anatomical data and measured photosynthetic rates in these C4 species, we have now calculated symplastic C4 acid flux per PD across the M-BS interface. These quantitative data are essential for modeling studies and gene discovery strategies needed to introduce aspects of C4 photosynthesis to C3 crops.
Plant viruses have been widely used as vectors for foreign gene expression and virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS). A limited number of viruses have been developed into viral vectors for the purposes of gene expression or VIGS in monocotyledonous plants, and among these, the tripartite viruses Brome mosaic virus and Cucumber mosaic virus have been shown to induce VIGS in maize (Zea mays). We describe here a new DNA-based VIGS system derived from Foxtail mosaic virus (FoMV), a monopartite virus that is able to establish systemic infection and silencing of endogenous maize genes homologous to gene fragments inserted into the FoMV genome. To demonstrate VIGS applications of this FoMV vector system, four genes, phytoene desaturase (functions in carotenoid biosynthesis), lesion mimic22 (encodes a key enzyme of the porphyrin pathway), iojap (functions in plastid development), and brown midrib3 (caffeic acid O-methyltransferase), were silenced and characterized in the sweet corn line Golden × Bantam. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the FoMV infectious clone establishes systemic infection in maize inbred lines, sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and green foxtail (Setaria viridis), indicating the potential wide applications of this viral vector system for functional genomics studies in maize and other monocots.
Seed storage proteins (SSP) in cereals provide essential nutrition for humans and animals. Genes encoding these proteins have undergone rapid evolution in different grass species. To better understand the degree of divergence, we analyzed this gene family in the subfamily Chloridoideae, where the genome of teff (Eragrostis tef) has been sequenced. We find gene duplications, deletions, and rapid mutations in protein-coding sequences. The main SSPs in teff, like other grasses, are prolamins, here called eragrostins. Teff has γ- and δ-prolamins, but has no β-prolamins. One δ-type prolamin (δ1) in teff has higher methionine (33%) levels than in maize (23-25%). The other δ-type prolamin (δ2) has reduced methionine residues (<10%) and is phylogenetically closer to α prolamins. Prolamin δ2 in teff represents an intermediate between δ and α types that appears to have been lost in maize and other Panicoideae, and was replaced by the expansion of α-prolamins. Teff also has considerably larger numbers of α-prolamin genes, which we further divide into five sub-groups, where α2 and α5 represent the most abundant α-prolamins both in number and in expression. In addition, indolines that determine kernel softness are present in teff and the panicoid cereal called foxtail millet (Setaria italica) but not in sorghum or maize, indicating that these genes were only recently lost in some members of the Panicoideae Moreover, this study provides not only information on the evolution of SSPs in the grass family but also the importance of α-globulins in protein aggregation and germplasm divergence.
Dendrobium officinale is one of the most well-known traditional Chinese medicines, and polysaccharide is its main active ingredient. Many studies have investigated the synthesis and accumulation mechanisms of polysaccharide, but until recently, little was known about the molecular mechanism of how polysaccharide is synthesized because no related genes have been cloned. In this study, we cloned an alkaline/neutral invertase gene from D. officinale (DoNI) by the rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) method. DoNI was 2231 bp long and contained an open reading frame that predicted a 62.8-kDa polypeptide with 554-amino acid residues. An alkaline/neutral invertase conserved domain was predicted from this deduced amino acid sequence, and DoNI had a similar deduced amino acid sequence to Setaria italica and Oryza brachyantha. We also found that DoNI expression in different tissues was closely related to DoNI activity, and more importantly, polysaccharide level. Our results indicate that DoNI is associated with polysaccharide accumulation in D. officinale.
ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs) have been reported to function in diverse physiological and molecular activities. Recent evidences also demonstrate the involvement of ARFs in conferring tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses in plant species. In the present study, 23 and 25 ARF proteins were identified in C3 model- rice and C4 model- foxtail millet, respectively. These proteins are classified into four classes (I-IV) based on phylogenetic analysis, with ARFs in classes I-III and ARF-like proteins (ARLs) in class IV. Sequence alignment and domain analysis revealed the presence of conserved and additional motifs, which may contribute to neo- and sub-functionalization of these proteins. Promoter analysis showed the presence of several cis-regulatory elements related to stress and hormone response, indicating their role in stress regulatory network. Expression analysis of rice ARFs and ARLs in different tissues, stresses and abscisic acid treatment highlighted temporal and spatial diversification of gene expression. Five rice cultivars screened for allelic variations in OsARF genes showed the presence of allelic polymorphisms in few gene loci. Altogether, the study provides insights on characteristics of ARF/ARL genes in rice and foxtail millet, which could be deployed for further functional analysis to extrapolate their precise roles in abiotic stress responses.
C4 photosynthesis is used by only three percent of all flowering plants, but explains a quarter of global primary production, including some of the worlds' most important cereals and bioenergy grasses. Recent advances in our understanding of C4 development can be attributed to the application of comparative transcriptomics approaches that has been fueled by high throughput sequencing. Global surveys of gene expression conducted between different developmental stages or on phylogenetically closely related C3 and C4 species are providing new insights into C4 function, development and evolution. Importantly, through co-expression analysis and comparative genomics, these studies help define novel candidate genes that transcend traditional genetic screens. In this review, we briefly summarize the major findings from recent transcriptomic studies, compare and contrast these studies to summarize emerging consensus, and suggest new approaches to exploit the data. Finally, we suggest using Setaria viridis as a model system to relieve a major bottleneck in genetic studies of C4 photosynthesis, and discuss the challenges and new opportunities for future comparative transcriptomic studies.
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is a diploid C4 panicoid species. Because of its prominent drought resistance, small genome size, self-pollination, and short life cycle, foxtail millet has become an ideal model system for studying drought tolerance of crops. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous, small RNAs that play important regulatory roles in the development and stress response in plants. In this study, we applied Illumina sequencing to systematically investigate the drought-responsive miRNAs derived from S. italica inbred An04-4783 seedlings grown under control and drought conditions. Degradome sequencing was applied to confirm the targets of these miRNAs at a global level. A total of 81 known miRNAs belonging to 28 families were identified, among which 14 miRNAs were upregulated and four were downregulated in response to drought. In addition, 72 potential novel miRNAs were identified, three of which were differentially expressed under drought conditions. Degradome sequencing analysis showed that 56 and 26 genes were identified as targets of known and novel miRNAs, respectively. Our analysis revealed post-transcriptional remodeling of cell development, transcription factors, ABA signaling, and cellar homeostasis in S.italica in response to drought. This preliminary characterization provided useful information for further studies on the regulatory networks of drought-responsive miRNAs in foxtail millet.
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv), which belongs to the Panicoideae tribe of the Poaceae, is an important grain crop widely grown in Northern China and India. It is currently developing into a novel model species for functional genomics of the Panicoideae as a result of its fully available reference genome sequence, small diploid genome (2n=18, ~510Mb), short life cycle, small stature and prolific seed production. Argonaute 1 (AGO1), belonging to the argonaute (AGO) protein family, recruits small RNAs and regulates plant growth and development. Here, we characterized an AGO1 mutant (siago1b) in foxtail millet, which was induced by ethyl methanesulfonate treatment. The mutant exhibited pleiotropic developmental defects, including dwarfing stem, narrow and rolled leaves, smaller panicles and lower rates of seed setting. Map-based cloning analysis demonstrated that these phenotypic variations were attributed to a C-A transversion, and a 7-bp deletion in the C-terminus of the SiAGO1b gene in siago1b Yeast two-hybrid assays and BiFC experiments revealed that the mutated region was an essential functional motif for the interaction between SiAGO1b and SiHYL1. Furthermore, 1598 differentially expressed genes were detected via RNA-seq-based comparison of SiAGO1b and wild-type plants, which revealed that SiAGO1b mutation influenced multiple biological processes, including energy metabolism, cell growth, programmed death and abiotic stress responses in foxtail millet. This study may provide a better understanding of the mechanisms by which SiAGO1b regulates the growth and development of crops.
The architecture of a plant affects its ability to compete for light and to respond to environmental stresses, thus affecting overall fitness and productivity. Two components of architecture, branching and height, were studied in 182 F7 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) at the vegetative, flowering and mature developmental stages in the panicoid C4 model grass system, Setaria. The RIL population was derived from a cross between domesticated S. italica (foxtail millet) and its wild relative S. viridis (green foxtail). In both field and greenhouse trials the wild parent was taller initially, started branching earlier, and flowered earlier, while the domesticated parent was shorter initially, but flowered later, producing a robust tall plant architecture with more nodes and leaves on the main culm and few or no branches. Biomass was highly correlated with height of the plant and number of nodes on the main culm, and generally showed a negative relationship with branch number. However, several of the RILs with the highest biomass in both trials were significantly more branched than the domesticated parent of the cross. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) analyses indicate that both height and branching are controlled by multiple genetic regions, often with QTL for both traits colocalizing in the same genomic regions. Genomic positions of several QTL colocalize with QTL in syntenic regions in other species and contain genes known to control branching and height in sorghum, maize, and switchgrass. Included in these is the ortholog of the rice SD-1 semi-dwarfing gene, which underlies one of the major Setaria height QTL. Understanding the relationships between height and branching patterns in Setaria, and their genetic control, is an important step to gaining a comprehensive knowledge of the development and genetic regulation of panicoid grass architecture.
Traditional method of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation through the generation of tissue culture had limited success for Setaria viridis, an emerging C4 monocot model. Here we present an efficient in planta method for Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation of S. viridis using spike dip. Pre-anthesis developing spikes were dipped into a solution of Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL1 harboring the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV35S) promoter to standardize and optimize conditions for transient as well as stable transformations. A transformation efficiency of 0.8 ± 0.1% was obtained after dipping of 5-day-old S3 spikes for 20 min in Agrobacterium cultures containing S. viridis spike-dip medium supplemented with 0.025% Silwet L-77 and 200 μm acetosyringone. Reproducibility of this method was demonstrated by generating stable transgenic lines expressing β-glucuronidase plus (GUSplus), green fluorescent protein (GFP) and Discosoma sp. red fluorescent protein (DsRed) reporter genes driven by either CaMV35S or intron-interrupted maize ubiquitin (Ubi) promoters from three S. viridis genotypes. Expression of these reporter genes in transient assays as well as in T1 stable transformed plants was monitored using histochemical, fluorometric GUS activity and fluorescence microscopy. Molecular analysis of transgenic lines revealed stable integration of transgenes into the genome, and inherited transgenes expressed in the subsequent generations. This approach provides opportunities for the high-throughput transformation and potentially facilitates translational research in a monocot model plant.
Recently, there has been interest in establishing a monocot C4 model species with a small genome, short lifecycle, and capacity for genetic transformation. Setaria viridis has been adopted to fill this role, since reports of Agrobacterium-mediated transformation in 2010, and sequencing of its genome in 2012. To date, S. viridis has primarily been used to further our understanding of C4 photosynthesis, but is also an ideal system for the study of biomass crops, which are almost exclusively C4 panicoid grasses. Biogenesis of stem tissue, its cell wall composition, and soluble sugar content are important determinants of bioenergy crop yields. Here we show that a developing S. viridis internode is a valuable experimental system for gene discovery in relation to these important bioenergy feedstock traits. The rate of maximal stem biomass accumulation in S. viridis A10 under long day growth was at the half-head emergence developmental stage. At this stage of development, internode 5 (of 7) was found to be rapidly expanding with an active meristem, a zone of cell expansion (primary cell walls), a transitional zone where cell expansion ceased and secondary cell wall deposition was initiated, and a mature zone that was actively accumulating soluble sugars. A simple method for identifying these zones was established allowing rapid dissection and snap-freezing for RNAseq analysis. A transcriptome profile was generated for each zone showing a transition from cell division and nucleic acid synthesis/processing in the meristem, to metabolism, energy synthesis, and primary cell wall synthesis in the cell expansion zone, to secondary cell wall synthesis in the transitional zone, to sugar transport, and photosynthesis in the mature zone. The identification of these zones has provided a valuable experimental system for investigating key bioenergy traits, including meristematic activity, cell wall biosynthesis, and soluble sugar accumulation, in a C4 panicoid grass that has genetic resources, a short life cycle, and small stature allowing controlled experimental conditions in growth cabinets. Here we have presented a comprehensive map of gene expression and metabolites in this experimental system to facilitate gene discovery and controlled hypothesis testing for bioenergy research in S. viridis.
Almost all C4 plants require the co-ordination of the adjacent and fully differentiated cell types, mesophyll (M) and bundle sheath (BS). The C4 photosynthetic pathway operates through two distinct subtypes based on how malate is decarboxylated in BS cells; through NAD-malic enzyme (NAD-ME) or NADP-malic enzyme (NADP-ME). The diverse or unique cell-specific molecular features of M and BS cells from separate C4 subtypes of independent lineages remain to be determined. We here provide an M/BS cell type-specific transcriptome data set from the monocot NAD-ME subtype switchgrass (Panicum virgatum). A comparative transcriptomics approach was then applied to compare the M/BS mRNA profiles of switchgrass, monocot NADP-ME subtype C4 plants maize and Setaria viridis, and dicot NAD-ME subtype Cleome gynandra. We evaluated the convergence in the transcript abundance of core components in C4 photosynthesis and transcription factors to establish Kranz anatomy, as well as gene distribution of biological functions, in these four independent C4 lineages. We also estimated the divergence between NAD-ME and NADP-ME subtypes of C4 photosynthesis in the two cell types within C4 species, including differences in genes encoding decarboxylating enzymes, aminotransferases, and metabolite transporters, and differences in the cell-specific functional enrichment of RNA regulation and protein biogenesis/homeostasis. We suggest that C4 plants of independent lineages in both monocots and dicots underwent convergent evolution to establish C4 photosynthesis, while distinct C4 subtypes also underwent divergent processes for the optimization of M and BS cell co-ordination. The comprehensive data sets in our study provide a basis for further research on evolution of C4 species.
In plants, resistance (R) genes are involved in pathogen recognition and subsequent activation of innate immune responses. The nucleotide-binding site-leucine-rich repeat (NBS-LRR) genes family forms the largest R-gene family among plant genomes and play an important role in plant disease resistance. In this paper, comprehensive analysis of NBS-encoding genes is performed in the whole Setaria italica genome. A total of 96 NBS-LRR genes are identified, and comprehensive overview of the NBS-LRR genes is undertaken, including phylogenetic analysis, chromosome locations, conserved motifs of proteins, and gene expression. Based on the domain, these genes are divided into two groups and distributed in all Setaria italica chromosomes. Most NBS-LRR genes are located at the distal tip of the long arms of the chromosomes. Setaria italica NBS-LRR proteins share at least one nucleotide-biding domain and one leucine-rich repeat domain. Our results also show the duplication of NBS-LRR genes in Setaria italica is related to their gene structure.
It was reported that Nuclear Factor Y (NF-Y) genes were involved in abiotic stress in plants. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica), an elite stress tolerant crop, provided an impetus for the investigation of the NF-Y families in abiotic responses. In the present study, a total of 39 NF-Y genes were identified in foxtail millet. Synteny analyses suggested that foxtail millet NF-Y genes had experienced rapid expansion and strong purifying selection during the process of plant evolution. De novo transcriptome assembly of foxtail millet revealed 11 drought up-regulated NF-Y genes. SiNF-YA1 and SiNF-YB8 were highly activated in leaves and/or roots by drought and salt stresses. Abscisic acid (ABA) and H2O2 played positive roles in the induction of SiNF-YA1 and SiNF-YB8 under stress treatments. Transient luciferase (LUC) expression assays revealed that SiNF-YA1 and SiNF-YB8 could activate the LUC gene driven by the tobacco (Nicotiana tobacam) NtERD10, NtLEA5, NtCAT, NtSOD, or NtPOD promoter under normal or stress conditions. Overexpression of SiNF-YA1 enhanced drought and salt tolerance by activating stress-related genes NtERD10 and NtCAT1 and by maintaining relatively stable relative water content (RWC) and contents of chlorophyll, superoxide dismutase (SOD), peroxidase (POD), catalase (CAT) and malondialdehyde (MDA) in transgenic lines under stresses. SiNF-YB8 regulated expression of NtSOD, NtPOD, NtLEA5, and NtERD10 and conferred relatively high RWC and chlorophyll contents and low MDA content, resulting in drought and osmotic tolerance in transgenic lines under stresses. Therefore, SiNF-YA1 and SiNF-YB8 could activate stress-related genes and improve physiological traits, resulting in tolerance to abiotic stresses in plants. All these results will facilitate functional characterization of foxtail millet NF-Ys in future studies.
A set of novel and known dehydration-responsive miRNAs have been identified in foxtail millet. These findings provide new insights into understanding the functional role of miRNAs and their respective targets in regulating plant response to dehydration stress. MicroRNAs perform significant regulatory roles in growth, development and stress response of plants. Though the miRNA-mediated gene regulatory networks under dehydration stress remain largely unexplored in plant including foxtail millet (Setaria italica), which is a natural abiotic stress tolerant crop. To find out the dehydration-responsive miRNAs at the global level, four small RNA libraries were constructed from control and dehydration stress treated seedlings of two foxtail millet cultivars showing contrasting tolerance behavior towards dehydration stress. Using Illumina sequencing technology, 55 known and 136 novel miRNAs were identified, representing 22 and 48 miRNA families, respectively. Eighteen known and 33 novel miRNAs were differentially expressed during dehydration stress. After the stress treatment, 32 dehydration-responsive miRNAs were up-regulated in tolerant cultivar and 22 miRNAs were down-regulated in sensitive cultivar, suggesting that miRNA-mediated molecular regulation might play important roles in providing contrasting characteristics to these cultivars. Predicted targets of identified miRNAs were found to encode various transcription factors and functional enzymes, indicating their involvement in broad spectrum regulatory functions and biological processes. Further, differential expression patterns of seven known miRNAs were validated by northern blot and expression of ten novel dehydration-responsive miRNAs were confirmed by SL-qRT PCR. Differential expression behavior of five miRNA-target genes was verified under dehydration stress treatment and two of them also validated by RLM RACE. Overall, the present study highlights the importance of dehydration stress-associated post-transcriptional regulation governed by miRNAs and their targets in a naturally stress-tolerant model crop.
Transcription factors (TFs) are major players in stress signaling and constitute an integral part of signaling networks. Among the major TFs, WRKY proteins play pivotal roles in regulation of transcriptional reprogramming associated with stress responses. In view of this, genome- and transcriptome-wide identification of WRKY TF family was performed in the C4model plants, Setaria italica (SiWRKY) and S. viridis (SvWRKY), respectively. The study identified 105 SiWRKY and 44 SvWRKY proteins that were computationally analyzed for their physicochemical properties. Sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis classified these proteins into three major groups, namely I, II, and III with majority of WRKY proteins belonging to group II (53 SiWRKY and 23 SvWRKY), followed by group III (39 SiWRKY and 11 SvWRKY) and group I (10 SiWRKY and 6 SvWRKY). Group II proteins were further classified into 5 subgroups (IIa to IIe) based on their phylogeny. Domain analysis showed the presence of WRKY motif and zinc finger-like structures in these proteins along with additional domains in a few proteins. All SiWRKY genes were physically mapped on the S. italica genome and their duplication analysis revealed that 10 and 8 gene pairs underwent tandem and segmental duplications, respectively. Comparative mapping of SiWRKY and SvWRKY genes in related C4 panicoid genomes demonstrated the orthologous relationships between these genomes. In silico expression analysis of SiWRKY and SvWRKY genes showed their differential expression patterns in different tissues and stress conditions. Expression profiling of candidate SiWRKY genes in response to stress (dehydration and salinity) and hormone treatments (abscisic acid, salicylic acid, and methyl jasmonate) suggested the putative involvement of SiWRKY066 and SiWRKY082 in stress and hormone signaling. These genes could be potential candidates for further characterization to delineate their functional roles in abiotic stress signaling.
Several underutilized grasses have excellent potential for use as bioenergy feedstock due to their lignocellulosic biomass. Genomic tools have enabled identification of lignocellulose biosynthesis genes in several sequenced plants. However, the non-availability of whole genome sequence of bioenergy grasses hinders the study on bioenergy genomics and their genomics-assisted crop improvement. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.; Si) is a model crop for studying systems biology of bioenergy grasses. In the present study, a systematic approach has been used for identification of gene families involved in cellulose (CesA/Csl), callose (Gsl) and monolignol biosynthesis (PAL, C4H, 4CL, HCT, C3H, CCoAOMT, F5H, COMT, CCR, CAD) and construction of physical map of foxtail millet. Sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis of identified proteins showed that monolignol biosynthesis proteins were highly diverse, whereas CesA/Csl and Gsl proteins were homologous to rice and Arabidopsis. Comparative mapping of foxtail millet lignocellulose biosynthesis genes with other C4 panicoid genomes revealed maximum homology with switchgrass, followed by sorghum and maize. Expression profiling of candidate lignocellulose genes in response to different abiotic stresses and hormone treatments showed their differential expression pattern, with significant higher expression of SiGsl12, SiPAL2, SiHCT1, SiF5H2, and SiCAD6 genes. Further, due to the evolutionary conservation of grass genomes, the insights gained from the present study could be extrapolated for identifying genes involved in lignocellulose biosynthesis in other biofuel species for further characterization.
Autophagy is an evolutionarily conserved biological process in all eukaryotes for the degradation of intracellular components for nutrient recycling. Autophagy is known to be involved in responses to low nitrogen stress in Arabidopsis. Foxtail millet has strong abiotic stress resistance to both low nutrient and drought stress. However, to date, there have only been a few genes reported to be related with abiotic stress resistance in foxtail millet. In this study, we identified an autophagy-related gene, SiATG8a, from foxtail millet. SiATG8a is mainly expressed in stems and its expression was dramatically induced by drought stress and nitrogen starvation treatments. SiATG8a was localized in the membrane and cytoplasm of foxtail millet. Overexpression of SiATG8a in Arabidopsis conferred tolerance to both nitrogen starvation and to drought stress. Under nitrogen starvation conditions, the SiATG8a transgenic plants had larger root and leaf areas and accumulated more total nitrogen than wild-type plants. The transgenic plants had lower total protein concentrations than did the WT plants. Under drought stress, the SiATG8a transgenic plants had higher survival rates, chlorophyll content, and proline content, but had lower MDA content than wild type plants. Taken together, our results represent the first identified case where overexpression of autophagy related gene can simultaneously improve plant resistance to low nitrogen and drought stresses. These findings implicate plant autophagy in plant stress responses to low nitrogen and drought and should be helpful in efforts to improve stresses resistance to nitrogen starvation and drought of crops by genetic transformation.
Setaria italica and its wild ancestor Setaria viridis are emerging as model systems for genetics and functional genomics research. However, few systematic gene mapping or functional analyses have been reported in these promising C4 models. We herein isolated the yellow-green leaf mutant (siygl1) in S. italica using forward genetics approaches. Map-based cloning revealed that SiYGL1, which is a recessive nuclear gene encoding a magnesium-chelatase D subunit (CHLD), is responsible for the mutant phenotype. A single Phe to Leu amino acid change occurring near the ATPase-conserved domain resulted in decreased chlorophyll (Chl) accumulation and modified chloroplast ultrastructure. However, the mutation enhanced the light-use efficiency of the siygl1 mutant, suggesting that the mutated CHLD protein does not completely lose its original activity, but instead, gains novel features. A transcriptional analysis of Chl a oxygenase revealed that there is a strong negative feedback control of Chl b biosynthesis in S. italica. The SiYGL1 mRNA was expressed in all examined tissues, with higher expression observed in the leaves. Comparison of gene expression profiles in wild-type and siygl1 mutant plants indicated that SiYGL1 regulates a subset of genes involved in photosynthesis (rbcL and LHCB1), thylakoid development (DEG2) and chloroplast signaling (SRP54CP). These results provide information regarding the mutant phenotype at the transcriptional level. This study demonstrated that the genetic material of a Setaria species could be ideal for gene discovery investigations using forward genetics approaches and may help to explain the molecular mechanisms associated with leaf color variation.
The C4 pathway is a highly complex trait that increases photosynthetic efficiency in more than 60 plant lineages. Although the majority of C4 plants occupy disturbed, arid, and nutrient-poor habitats, some grow in high-nutrient, waterlogged conditions. One such example is Echinochloa glabrescens, which is an aggressive weed of rice paddies. We generated comprehensive transcriptome datasets for C4 E. glabrescens and C3 rice to identify genes associated with adaption to waterlogged, nutrient-replete conditions, but also used the data to better understand how C4 photosynthesis operates in these conditions. Leaves of E. glabrescens exhibited classical Kranz anatomy with lightly lobed mesophyll cells having low chloroplast coverage. As with rice and other hygrophytic C3 species, leaves of E. glabrescens accumulated a chloroplastic phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase protein, albeit at reduced amounts relative to rice. The arid-grown species Setaria italica (C4) and Brachypodium distachyon (C3) were also found to accumulate chloroplastic phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase. We identified a molecular signature associated with C4 photosynthesis in nutrient-replete, waterlogged conditions that is highly similar to those previously reported from C4 plants that grow in more arid conditions. We also identified a cohort of genes that have been subjected to a selective sweep associated with growth in paddy conditions. Overall, this approach highlights the value of using wild species such as weeds to identify adaptions to specific conditions associated with high-yielding crops in agriculture.
mRNA degradation plays an important role in the determination of mRNA abundance and can quickly regulate gene expression. The production of uncapped mRNAs, an important mechanism of mRNA degradation, can be initiated by decapping enzymes, endonucleases or small RNAs such as microRNAs (miRNAs). Little is known, however, about the role of uncapped mRNAs in plants under environmental stress. Using a novel approach called parallel analysis of RNA ends (PARE), we performed a global study of uncapped mRNAs under drought stress in foxtail millet (Setaria italica [L.] P. Beauv.). When both gene degradation (PARE) and gene transcription (RNA-sequencing) data were considered, four types of mRNA decay patterns were identified under drought stress. In addition, 385 miRNA-target interactions were identified in the PARE data using PAREsnip. The PARE analysis also suggested that two miRNA hairpin processing mechanisms--loop-last and loop-first processing--operate in foxtail millet, with both miR319 and miR156 gene families undergoing precise processing via the unusual loop-first mechanism. Finally, we found 11 C4 photosynthesis-related enzymes encoded by drought-responsive genes. We performed a global analysis of mRNA degradation under drought stress and uncovered diverse drought-response mechanisms in foxtail millet. This information will deepen our understanding of mRNA expression under stressful environmental conditions in gramineous plants. In addition, PARE analysis identified many miRNA targets and revealed miRNA-precursor processing modes in foxtail millet.
Six foxtail millet ASR genes were regulated by various stress-related signals. Overexpression of ASR1 increased drought and oxidative tolerance by controlling ROS homeostasis and regulating oxidation-related genes in tobacco plants. Abscisic acid stress ripening (ASR) proteins with ABA/WDS domains constituted a class of plant-specific transcription factors, playing important roles in plant development, growth and abiotic stress responses. However, only a few ASRs genes have been characterized in crop plants and none was reported so far in foxtail millet (Setaria italic), an important drought-tolerant crop and model bioenergy grain crop. In the present study, we identified six foxtail millet ASR genes. Gene structure, protein alignments and phylogenetic relationships were analyzed. Transcript expression patterns of ASR genes revealed that ASRs might play important roles in stress-related signaling and abiotic stress responses in diverse tissues in foxtail millet. Subcellular localization assays showed that SiASR1 localized in the nucleus. Overexpression of SiASR1 in tobacco remarkably increased tolerance to drought and oxidative stresses, as determined through developmental and physiological analyses of germination rate, root growth, survival rate, relative water content, ion leakage, chlorophyll content and antioxidant enzyme activities. Furthermore, expression of SiASR1 modulated the transcript levels of oxidation-related genes, including NtSOD, NtAPX, NtCAT, NtRbohA and NtRbohB, under drought and oxidative stress conditions. These results provide a foundation for evolutionary and functional characterization of the ASR gene family in foxtail millet.
Employing reference genes to normalize the data generated with quantitative PCR (qPCR) can increase the accuracy and reliability of this method. Previous results have shown that no single housekeeping gene can be universally applied to all experiments. Thus, the identification of a suitable reference gene represents a critical step of any qPCR analysis. Setaria viridis has recently been proposed as a model system for the study of Panicoid grasses, a crop family of major agronomic importance. Therefore, this paper aims to identify suitable S. viridis reference genes that can enhance the analysis of gene expression in this novel model plant. The first aim of this study was the identification of a suitable RNA extraction method that could retrieve a high quality and yield of RNA. After this, two distinct algorithms were used to assess the gene expression of fifteen different candidate genes in eighteen different samples, which were divided into two major datasets, the developmental and the leaf gradient. The best-ranked pair of reference genes from the developmental dataset included genes that encoded a phosphoglucomutase and a folylpolyglutamate synthase; genes that encoded a cullin and the same phosphoglucomutase as above were the most stable genes in the leaf gradient dataset. Additionally, the expression pattern of two target genes, a SvAP3/PI MADS-box transcription factor and the carbon-fixation enzyme PEPC, were assessed to illustrate the reliability of the chosen reference genes. This study has shown that novel reference genes may perform better than traditional housekeeping genes, a phenomenon which has been previously reported. These results illustrate the importance of carefully validating reference gene candidates for each experimental set before employing them as universal standards. Additionally, the robustness of the expression of the target genes may increase the utility of S. viridis as a model for Panicoid grasses.
Although lipo-chitooligosaccharides (LCOs) are important signal molecules for plant-symbiont interactions, a number of reports suggest that LCOs can directly impact plant growth and development, separate from any role in plant symbioses. In order to investigate this more closely, maize and Setaria seedlings were treated with LCO and their growth was evaluated. The data indicate that LCO treatment significantly enhanced root growth. RNA-seq transcriptomic analysis of LCO-treated maize roots identified a number of genes whose expression was significantly affected by the treatment. Among these genes, some LCO-up-regulated genes are likely involved in root growth promotion. Interestingly, some stress-related genes were down-regulated after LCO treatment, which might indicate reallocation of resources from defense responses to plant growth. The promoter activity of several LCO-up-regulated genes using a β-glucuronidase reporter system was further analysed. The results showed that the promoters were activated by LCO treatment. The data indicate that LCO can directly impact maize root growth and gene expression.
Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is an important food and fodder grain crop that is grown for human consumption. Production of this species is affected by several plant diseases, such as rust. The cultivar Shilixiang has been identified as resistant to the foxtail millet rust pathogen, Uromyces setariae-italicae. In order to identify signaling pathways and genes related to the plant's defense mechanisms against rust, the Shilixiang cultivar was used to construct a digital gene expression (DGE) library during the interaction of foxtail millet with U. setariae-italicae. In this study, we determined the most abundant differentially expressed signaling pathways of up-regulated genes in foxtail millet and identified significantly up-regulated genes. Finally, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis was used to analyze the expression of nine selected genes, and the patterns observed agreed well with DGE analysis. Expression levels of the genes were also compared between a resistant cultivar Shilixiang and a susceptible cultivar Yugu-1, and the result indicated that expression level of Shilixiang is higher than that of Yugu-1. This study reveals the relatively comprehensive mechanisms of rust-responsive transcription in foxtail millet.
14-3-3 proteins are a large multigenic family of regulatory proteins ubiquitously found in eukaryotes. In plants, 14-3-3 proteins are reported to play significant role in both development and response to stress stimuli. Therefore, considering their importance, genome-wide analyses have been performed in many plants including Arabidopsis, rice and soybean. But, till date, no comprehensive investigation has been conducted in any C4 panicoid crops. In view of this, the present study was performed to identify 8, 5 and 26 potential 14-3-3 gene family members in foxtail millet (Si14-3-3), sorghum (Sb14-3-3) and maize (Zm14-3-3), respectively. In silico characterization revealed large variations in their gene structures; segmental and tandem duplications have played a major role in expansion of these genes in foxtail millet and maize. Gene ontology annotation showed the participation of 14-3-3 proteins in diverse biological processes and molecular functions, and in silico expression profiling indicated their higher expression in all the investigated tissues. Comparative mapping was performed to derive the orthologous relationships between 14-3-3 genes of foxtail millet and other Poaceae members, which showed a higher, as well as similar percentage of orthology among these crops. Expression profiling of Si14-3-3 genes during different time-points of abiotic stress and hormonal treatments showed a differential expression pattern of these genes, and sub-cellular localization studies revealed the site of action of Si14-3-3 proteins within the cells. Further downstream characterization indicated the interaction of Si14-3-3 with a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling phosphoprotein (SiRSZ21A) in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, and this demonstrates that Si14-3-3 might regulate the splicing events by binding with phosphorylated SiRSZ21A. Taken together, the present study is a comprehensive analysis of 14-3-3 gene family members in foxtail millet, sorghum and maize, which provides interesting information on their gene structure, protein domains, phylogenetic and evolutionary relationships, and expression patterns during abiotic stresses and hormonal treatments, which could be useful in choosing candidate members for further functional characterization. In addition, demonstration of interaction between Si14-3-3 and SiRSZ21A provides novel clues on the involvement of 14-3-3 proteins in the splicing events.
Lymphatic filariasis is a major neglected tropical disease. Diospyros perigrena Gurke (Ebenaceae) was selected for antifilarial chemotherapy because of unavailability of proper medicine. In India, different parts of this plant were used for the treatment of diabetes, diarrhea, dysentery, cholera, mouth ulcers, and wounds. The present study was undertaken to access antifilarial potential and mechanism of action of n-butanol extract (NBE) of D. perigrena stem bark on Setaria cervi Rudolphi (Onchocercidae). In vitro efficacy and apoptotic mechanism were evaluated by Hoechst, TUNEL, DNA fragmentation assay, pro- and anti-apoptotic gene expression in NBE (250, 125, 62.5, 31.25, and 15.6 µg/ml)-treated S. cervi after 24 h of incubation. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) up-regulation was also determined by GSH, GST, SOD assays, and super oxide anion level. Significant in vitro antifilarial activity of NBE was found 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50): adult = 57.6 μg/ml, microfilariae (mf) = 56.1 μg/ml, and lethal dose (LD100) in mf is 187.17 μg/ml) after 24 h of treatment. NBF-induced apoptosis was proved by Hoechst, TUNEL, RT-PCR, and Western blot method. NBF (250 µg/ml) decreased the level of GSH (17.8%) and GST (65.4%), increased SOD activity (1.42-fold) and super oxide anion production (1.32-fold) in the treated parasite which culminated into ROS up-regulation. NBE induced apoptosis in different life cycle stages of S. cervi. In future, a detailed study of NBF will give us a novel antifilarial compound which will be used for antifilarial chemotherapy.
Growth-defence balance is the selective partitioning of resources between biomass accumulation and defence responses. Although it is generally postulated that reallocation of limited carbon pools drives the antagonism between growth and defence, little is known about the mechanisms underlying this regulation. Jasmonates (JAs) are a group of oxylipins that are required for a broad range of responses from defence against insects to reproductive growth. Application of JAs to seedlings also leads to inhibited growth and repression of photosynthesis, suggesting a role for JAs in regulating growth-defence balance. The majority of JA research uses dicot models such as Arabidopsis and tomato, while understanding of JA biology in monocot grasses, which comprise most bioenergy feedstocks, food for human consumption, and animal feed, is limited. Interestingly, JA mutants of grasses exhibit unique phenotypes compared with well-studied dicot models. Gene expression analyses in bioenergy grasses also suggest roles for JA in rhizome development, which has not been demonstrated in Arabidopsis. In this review we summarize current knowledge of JA biology in panicoid grasses-the group that consists of the world's emerging bioenergy grasses such as switchgrass, sugarcane, Miscanthus, and sorghum. We discuss outstanding questions regarding the role of JAs in panicoid grasses, and highlight the importance of utilizing emerging grass models for molecular studies to provide a basis for engineering bioenergy grasses that can maximize biomass accumulation while efficiently defending against stress.
The APETALA2/ethylene-responsive element binding factor (AP2/ERF) family is one of the largest transcription factor (TF) families in plants that includes four major sub-families, namely AP2, DREB (dehydration responsive element binding), ERF (ethylene responsive factors) and RAV (Related to ABI3/VP). AP2/ERFs are known to play significant roles in various plant processes including growth and development and biotic and abiotic stress responses. Considering this, a comprehensive genome-wide study was conducted in foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.). A total of 171 AP2/ERF genes were identified by systematic sequence analysis and were physically mapped onto nine chromosomes. Phylogenetic analysis grouped AP2/ERF genes into six classes (I to VI). Duplication analysis revealed that 12 (∼7%) SiAP2/ERF genes were tandem repeated and 22 (∼13%) were segmentally duplicated. Comparative physical mapping between foxtail millet AP2/ERF genes and its orthologs of sorghum (18 genes), maize (14 genes), rice (9 genes) and Brachypodium (6 genes) showed the evolutionary insights of AP2/ERF gene family and also the decrease in orthology with increase in phylogenetic distance. The evolutionary significance in terms of gene-duplication and divergence was analyzed by estimating synonymous and non-synonymous substitution rates. Expression profiling of candidate AP2/ERF genes against drought, salt and phytohormones revealed insights into their precise and/or overlapping expression patterns which could be responsible for their functional divergence in foxtail millet. The study showed that the genes SiAP2/ERF-069, SiAP2/ERF-103 and SiAP2/ERF-120 may be considered as potential candidate genes for further functional validation as well for utilization in crop improvement programs for stress resistance since these genes were up-regulated under drought and salinity stresses in ABA dependent manner. Altogether the present study provides new insights into evolution, divergence and systematic functional analysis of AP2/ERF gene family at genome level in foxtail millet which may be utilized for improving stress adaptation and tolerance in millets, cereals and bioenergy grasses.
Late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins are involved in protecting higher plants from damage caused by environmental stresses. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is an important cereal crop for food and feed in semi-arid areas. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying tolerance to these conditions are not well defined. Here, we characterized a novel atypical LEA gene named SiLEA14 from foxtail millet. It contains two exons separated by one intron. SiLEA14 was expressed in roots, stems, leaves, inflorescences and seeds at different levels under normal growth conditions. In addition, SiLEA14 was dramatically induced by osmotic stress, NaCl and exogenous abscisic acid. The SiLEA14 protein was localized in the nucleus and the cytoplasm. Overexpression of SiLEA14 improved Escherichia coli growth performance compared with the control under salt stress. To further assess the function of SiLEA14 in plants, transgenic Arabidopsis and foxtail millet plants that overexpressed SiLEA14 were obtained. The transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings showed higher tolerance to salt and osmotic stress than the wild type (WT). Similarly, the transgenic foxtail millet showed improved growth under salt and drought stresses compared with the WT. Taken together, our results indicated that SiLEA14 is a novel atypical LEA protein and plays important roles in resistance to abiotic stresses in plants. We characterized a novel atypical LEA gene SiLEA14 from foxtail millet, which plays important roles in plant abiotic stress resistance. Modification of SiLEA14 expression may improve abiotic stress resistance in agricultural crops.
Polyamines can regulate the expression of antioxidant enzymes and impart plants tolerance to abiotic stresses. A comparative analysis of polyamines, their biosynthetic enzymes at kinetic and at transcriptional level, and their role in regulating the induction of antioxidant defense enzymes under salt stress condition in two foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) cultivars, namely Prasad, a salt-tolerant, and Lepakshi, a salt-sensitive cultivar was conducted. Salt stress resulted in elevation of free polyamines due to increase in the activity of spermidine synthase and S-adenosyl methionine decarboxylase enzymes in cultivar Prasad compared to cultivar Lepakshi under different levels of NaCl stress. These enzyme activities were further confirmed at the transcript level via qRT-PCR analysis. The cultivar Prasad showed a greater decrease in diamine oxidase and polyamine oxidase activity, which results in the accumulation of polyamine pools over cultivar Lepakshi. Generation of free radicals, such as O 2 (·-) and H2O2, was also analyzed quantitatively. A significant increase in O 2 (·-) and H2O2 in the cultivar Lepakshi compared with cultivar Prasad was recorded in overall pool sizes. Further, histochemical staining showed lesser accumulation of O 2 (·-) and of H2O2 in the leaves of cultivar Prasad than cultivar Lepakshi. Our results also suggest the ability of polyamine oxidation in regulating the induction of antioxidative defense enzymes, which involve in the elimination of toxic levels of O 2 (·-) and H2O2, such as Mn-superoxide dismutase, catalase and ascorbate peroxidase. The contribution of polyamines in modulating antioxidative defense mechanism in NaCl stress tolerance is discussed.
Viral diseases cause significant losses in global agricultural production, yet little is known about grass antiviral defense mechanisms. We previously reported on host immune responses triggered by Panicum mosaic virus (PMV) and its satellite virus (SPMV) in the model C3 grass Brachypodium distachyon. To aid comparative analyses of C3 and C4 grass antiviral defenses, here, we establish B. distachyon and Setaria viridis (a C4 grass) as compatible hosts for seven grass-infecting viruses, including PMV and SPMV, Brome mosaic virus, Barley stripe mosaic virus, Maize mild mottle virus, Sorghum yellow banding virus, Wheat streak mosaic virus (WSMV), and Foxtail mosaic virus (FoMV). Etiological and molecular characterization of the fourteen grass-virus pathosystems showed evidence for conserved crosstalk among salicylic acid (SA), jasmonic acid, and ethylene pathways in B. distachyon and S. viridis. Strikingly, expression of PHYTOALEXIN DEFICIENT4, an upstream modulator of SA signaling, was consistently suppressed during most virus infections in B. distachyon and S. viridis. Hierarchical clustering analyses further identified unique antiviral responses triggered by two morphologically similar viruses, FoMV and WSMV, and uncovered other host-dependent effects. Together, the results of this study establish B. distachyon and S. viridis as models for the analysis of plant-virus interactions and provide the first framework for conserved and unique features of C3 and C4 grass antiviral defenses.
MYB proteins represent one of the largest transcription factor families in plants, playing important roles in diverse developmental and stress-responsive processes. Considering its significance, several genome-wide analyses have been conducted in almost all land plants except foxtail millet. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) is a model crop for investigating systems biology of millets and bioenergy grasses. Further, the crop is also known for its potential abiotic stress-tolerance. In this context, a comprehensive genome-wide survey was conducted and 209 MYB protein-encoding genes were identified in foxtail millet. All 209 S. italica MYB (SiMYB) genes were physically mapped onto nine chromosomes of foxtail millet. Gene duplication study showed that segmental- and tandem-duplication have occurred in genome resulting in expansion of this gene family. The protein domain investigation classified SiMYB proteins into three classes according to number of MYB repeats present. The phylogenetic analysis categorized SiMYBs into ten groups (I-X). SiMYB-based comparative mapping revealed a maximum orthology between foxtail millet and sorghum, followed by maize, rice and Brachypodium. Heat map analysis showed tissue-specific expression pattern of predominant SiMYB genes. Expression profiling of candidate MYB genes against abiotic stresses and hormone treatments using qRT-PCR revealed specific and/or overlapping expression patterns of SiMYBs. Taken together, the present study provides a foundation for evolutionary and functional characterization of MYB TFs in foxtail millet to dissect their functions in response to environmental stimuli.
Transcription factors (TFs) contain DNA-binding domains (DBDs) and regulate gene expression by binding to specific DNA sequences. In addition, there are proteins, called transcription coregulators (TCs), which lack DBDs but can alter gene expression through interaction with TFs or RNA Polymerase II. Therefore, it is interesting to identify and classify the TFs and TCs in a genome. In this study, maize (Zea mays) and foxtail millet (Setaria italica), two important species for the study of C4 photosynthesis and kranz anatomy, were selected. We conducted a comprehensive genome-wide annotation of TFs and TCs in maize B73 and in two strains of foxtail millet, Zhang gu and Yugu1, and classified them into families. To gain additional support for our predictions, we searched for their homologous genes in Arabidopsis or rice and studied their gene expression level using RNA-seq and microarray data. We identified many new TF and TC families in these two species, and described some evolutionary and functional aspects of the 9 new maize TF families. Moreover, we detected many pseudogenes and transposable elements in current databases. In addition, we examined tissue expression preferences of TF and TC families and identified tissue/condition-specific TFs and TCs in maize and millet. Finally, we identified potential C4-related TF and TC genes in maize and millet. Our results significantly expand current TF and TC annotations in maize and millet. We provided supporting evidence for our annotation from genomic and gene expression data and identified TF and TC genes with tissue preference in expression. Our study may facilitate the study of regulation of gene expression, tissue morphogenesis, and C4 photosynthesis in maize and millet. The data we generated in this study are available at http://sites.google.com/site/jjlmmtf.
Phosphorus (P) is an essential element which plays several key roles in all living organisms. Setaria italica (foxtail millet) is a model species for panacoid grasses including several millet species widely grown in arid regions of Asia and Africa, and for the bioenergy crop switchgrass. The growth responses of S. italica to different levels of inorganic phosphate (Pi) and to colonisation with the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Funneliformis mosseae (syn. Glomus mosseae) were studied. Phosphate is taken up from the environment by the PHT1 family of plant phosphate transporters, which have been well characterized in several plant species. Bioinformatic analysis identified 12 members of the PHT1 gene family (SiPHT1;1-1;12) in S. italica, and RT and qPCR analysis showed that most of these transporters displayed specific expression patterns with respect to tissue, phosphate status and arbuscular mycorrhizal colonisation. SiPHT1;2 was found to be expressed in all tissues and in all growth conditions tested. In contrast, expression of SiPHT1;4 was induced in roots after 15 days growth in hydroponic medium of low Pi concentration. Expression of SiPHT1;8 and SiPHT1;9 in roots was selectively induced by colonisation with F. mosseae. SiPHT1;3 and SiPHT1;4 were found to be predominantly expressed in leaf and root tissues respectively. Several other transporters were expressed in shoots and leaves during growth in low Pi concentrations. This study will form the basis for the further characterization of these transporters, with the long term goal of improving the phosphate use efficiency of foxtail millet.
pF128 drives GUS specifically expressed in transgenic seeds of foxtail millet and Zea mays with higher activity than the constitutive CaMV35S promoter and the maize seed-specific 19Z promoter. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica), a member of the Poaceae family, is an important food and fodder crop in arid regions. Foxtail millet is an excellent C4 crop model owing to its small genome (~490 Mb), self-pollination and availability of a complete genome sequence. F128 was isolated from a cDNA library of foxtail millet immature seeds. Real-time PCR analysis revealed that F128 mRNA was specifically expressed in immature and mature seeds. The highest F128 mRNA level was observed 5 days after pollination and gradually decreased as the seed matured. Sequence analysis suggested that the protein encoded by F128 is likely a protease inhibitor/seed storage protein/lipid-transfer protein. The 1,053 bp 5' flanking sequence of F128 (pF128) was isolated and fused to the GUS reporter gene. The corresponding vector was then transformed into Arabidopsis thaliana, foxtail millet and Zea mays. GUS analysis revealed that pF128 drove GUS expression efficiently and specifically in the seeds of transgenic Arabidopsis, foxtail millet and Zea mays. GUS activity was also detected in Arabidopsis cotyledons. Activity of pF128 was higher than that observed for the constitutive CaMV35S promoter and the maize seed-specific 19 Zein (19Z) promoter. These results indicate that pF128 is a seed-specific promoter. Its application is expected to be of considerable value in plant genetic engineering.
The DREB (dehydration-responsive element binding)-type transcription factors regulate the expression of stress-inducible genes by binding the DRE/CRT cis-elements in promoter regions. The upstream transcription factors that regulate the transcription of DREB transcription factors have not been clearly defined, although the function of DREB transcription factors in abiotic stress is known. In this study, an abscisic acid (ABA)-responsive DREB-binding protein gene (SiARDP) was cloned from foxtail millet (Setaria italica). The transcript level of SiARDP increased not only after drought, high salt, and low temperature stresses, but also after an ABA treatment in foxtail millet seedlings. Two ABA-responsive elements (ABRE1: ACGTGTC; ABRE2: ACGTGGC) exist in the promoter of SiARDP. Further analyses showed that two ABA-responsive element binding (AREB)-type transcription factors, SiAREB1 and SiAREB2, could physically bind to the ABRE core element in vitro and in vivo. The constitutive expression of SiARDP in Arabidopsis thaliana enhanced drought and salt tolerance during seed germination and seedling development, and overexpression of SiARDP in foxtail millet improved drought tolerance. The expression levels of target genes of SiARDP were upregulated in transgenic Arabidopsis and foxtail millet. These results reveal that SiARDP, one of the target genes of SiAREB, is involved in ABA-dependent signal pathways and plays a critical role in the abiotic stress response in plants.
Foxtail millet has recently been regarded as a model crop for studying the systems biology of millets and bioenergy grass species. For expediting the functional genomic studies in this model crop as well as in the related millets and bioenergy grasses, we have developed a comprehensive transcription factor database. Our foxtail millet transcription factors database (FmTFDb: http://59.163.192.91/FmTFDb/index.html ) encompasses 2,297 putative TFs in 55 families along with its sequence features, chromosomal locations, tissue-specific gene expression data, gene ontology (GO) assignment, and phylogeny. FmTFDb is intended to provide the users an unrestricted public access in retrieving and visualizing the individual members of a TF family through a set of query interfaces and analysis tools, including the BLAST search, annotation query interfaces, and tools to identify enriched GO terms and to visualize physical maps. This FmTFDb will serve as a promising central resource for researchers as well as breeders who are dedicated towards crop improvement of millets and bioenergy grasses.
Recent genomic sequencing of the foxtail millet, an abiotic, stress-tolerant crop, has provided a great opportunity for novel gene discovery and functional analysis of this popularly-grown grass. However, few stress-mediated gene families have been studied. Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) comprise a gene superfamily encoding NAD (P) +-dependent enzymes that play the role of "aldehyde scavengers", which indirectly detoxify cellular ROS and reduce the effect of lipid peroxidation meditated cellular toxicity under various environmental stresses. In the current paper, we identified a total of 20 ALDH genes in the foxtail millet genome using a homology search and a phylogenetic analysis and grouped them into ten distinct families based on their amino acid sequence identity. Furthermore, evolutionary analysis of foxtail millet reveals that both tandem and segmental duplication contributed significantly to the expansion of its ALDH genes. The exon-intron structures of members of the same family in foxtail millet or the orthologous genes in rice display highly diverse distributions of their exonic and intronic regions. Also, synteny analysis shows that the majority of foxtail millet and rice ALDH gene homologs exist in the syntenic blocks between the two, implying that these ALDH genes arose before the divergence of cereals. Semi-quantitative and real-time quantitative PCR data reveals that a few SiALDH genes are expressed in an organ-specific manner and that the expression of a number of foxtail millet ALDH genes, such as, SiALDH7B1, SiALDH12A1 and SiALDH18B2 are up-regulated by osmotic stress, cold, H2O2, and phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA). Furthermore, the transformation of SiALDH2B2, SiALDH10A2, SiALDH5F1, SiALDH22A1, and SiALDH3E2 into Escherichia coli (E.coli) was able to improve their salt tolerance. Taken together, our results show that genome-wide identification characteristics and expression analyses provide unique opportunities for assessing the functional roles of foxtail millet ALDH genes in stress responses.
Heat stress transcription factors (Hsfs) regulate gene expression in response to heat and many other environmental stresses in plants. Understanding the adaptive evolution of Hsf genes in the grass family will provide potentially useful information for the genetic improvement of modern crops to handle increasing global temperatures. In this work, we performed a genome-wide survey of Hsf genes in 5 grass species, including rice, maize, sorghum, Setaria, and Brachypodium, by describing their phylogenetic relationships, adaptive evolution, and expression patterns under abiotic stresses. The Hsf genes in grasses were divided into 24 orthologous gene clusters (OGCs) based on phylogeneitc relationship and synteny, suggesting that 24 Hsf genes were present in the ancestral grass genome. However, 9 duplication and 4 gene-loss events were identified in the tested genomes. A maximum-likelihood analysis revealed the effects of positive selection in the evolution of 11 OGCs and suggested that OGCs with duplicated or lost genes were more readily influenced by positive selection than other OGCs. Further investigation revealed that positive selection acted on only one of the duplicated genes in 8 of 9 paralogous pairs, suggesting that neofunctionalization contributed to the evolution of these duplicated pairs. We also investigated the expression patterns of rice and maize Hsf genes under heat, salt, drought, and cold stresses. The results revealed divergent expression patterns between the duplicated genes. This study demonstrates that neofunctionalization by changes in expression pattern and function following gene duplication has been an important factor in the maintenance and divergence of grass Hsf genes.
C2H2 type of zinc finger transcription factors (TFs) play crucial roles in plant stress response and hormone signal transduction. Hence considering its importance, genome-wide investigation and characterization of C2H2 zinc finger proteins were performed in Arabidopsis, rice and poplar but no such study was conducted in foxtail millet which is a C4 Panicoid model crop well known for its abiotic stress tolerance. The present study identified 124 C2H2-type zinc finger TFs in foxtail millet (SiC2H2) and physically mapped them onto the genome. The gene duplication analysis revealed that SiC2H2s primarily expanded in the genome through tandem duplication. The phylogenetic tree classified these TFs into five groups (I-V). Further, miRNAs targeting SiC2H2 transcripts in foxtail millet were identified. Heat map demonstrated differential and tissue-specific expression patterns of these SiC2H2 genes. Comparative physical mapping between foxtail millet SiC2H2 genes and its orthologs of sorghum, maize and rice revealed the evolutionary relationships of C2H2 type of zinc finger TFs. The duplication and divergence data provided novel insight into the evolutionary aspects of these TFs in foxtail millet and related grass species. Expression profiling of candidate SiC2H2 genes in response to salinity, dehydration and cold stress showed differential expression pattern of these genes at different time points of stresses.
MiRNAs are a novel group of non-coding small RNAs that negatively regulate gene expression. Many miRNAs have been identified and investigated extensively in plant species with sequenced genomes. However, few miRNAs have been identified in foxtail millet (Setaria italica), which is an ancient cereal crop of great importance for dry land agriculture. In this study, 271 foxtail millet miRNAs belonging to 44 families were identified using a bioinformatics approach. Twenty-three pairs of sense/antisense miRNAs belonging to 13 families, and 18 miRNA clusters containing members of 8 families were discovered in foxtail millet. We identified 432 potential targets for 38 miRNA families, most of which were predicted to be involved in plant development, signal transduction, metabolic pathways, disease resistance, and environmental stress responses. Gene ontology (GO) analysis revealed that 101, 56, and 23 target genes were involved in molecular functions, biological processes, and cellular components, respectively. We investigated the expression patterns of 43 selected miRNAs using qRT-PCR analysis. All of the miRNAs were expressed ubiquitously with many exhibiting different expression levels in different tissues. We validated five predicted targets of four miRNAs using the RNA ligase mediated rapid amplification of cDNA end (5'-RLM-RACE) method.
Domestication is a multifaceted evolutionary process, involving changes in individual genes, genetic interactions, and emergent phenotypes. There has been extensive discussion of the phenotypic characteristics of plant domestication, and recent research has started to identify the specific genes and mutational mechanisms that control domestication traits. However, there is an apparent disconnect between the simple genetic architecture described for many crop domestication traits, which should facilitate rapid phenotypic change under selection, and the slow rate of change reported from the archeobotanical record. A possible explanation involves the middle ground between individual genetic changes and their expression during development, where gene-by-gene (epistatic) and gene-by-environment interactions can modify the expression of phenotypes and opportunities for selection. These aspects of genetic architecture have the potential to significantly slow the speed of phenotypic evolution during crop domestication and improvement. Here we examine whether epistatic and gene-by-environment interactions have shaped how domestication traits have evolved. We review available evidence from the literature, and we analyze two domestication-related traits, shattering and flowering time, in a mapping population derived from a cross between domesticated foxtail millet and its wild progenitor. We find that compared with wild progenitor alleles, those favored during domestication often have large phenotypic effects and are relatively insensitive to genetic background and environmental effects. Consistent selection should thus be able to rapidly change traits during domestication. We conclude that if phenotypic evolution was slow during crop domestication, this is more likely due to cultural or historical factors than epistatic or environmental constraints.
Leaves of almost all C4 lineages separate the reactions of photosynthesis into the mesophyll (M) and bundle sheath (BS). The extent to which messenger RNA profiles of M and BS cells from independent C4 lineages resemble each other is not known. To address this, we conducted deep sequencing of RNA isolated from the M and BS of Setaria viridis and compared these data with publicly available information from maize (Zea mays). This revealed a high correlation (r=0.89) between the relative abundance of transcripts encoding proteins of the core C4 pathway in M and BS cells in these species, indicating significant convergence in transcript accumulation in these evolutionarily independent C4 lineages. We also found that the vast majority of genes encoding proteins of the C4 cycle in S. viridis are syntenic to homologs used by maize. In both lineages, 122 and 212 homologous transcription factors were preferentially expressed in the M and BS, respectively. Sixteen shared regulators of chloroplast biogenesis were identified, 14 of which were syntenic homologs in maize and S. viridis. In sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), a third C4 grass, we found that 82% of these trans-factors were also differentially expressed in either M or BS cells. Taken together, these data provide, to our knowledge, the first quantification of convergence in transcript abundance in the M and BS cells from independent lineages of C4 grasses. Furthermore, the repeated recruitment of syntenic homologs from large gene families strongly implies that parallel evolution of both structural genes and trans-factors underpins the polyphyletic evolution of this highly complex trait in the monocotyledons.
Paspalum dilatatum Poir. (common name dallisgrass) is a native grass species of South America, with special relevance to dairy and red meat production. P. dilatatum exhibits higher forage quality than other C4 forage grasses and is tolerant to frost and water stress. This species is predominantly cultivated in an apomictic monoculture, with an inherent high risk that biotic and abiotic stresses could potentially devastate productivity. Therefore, advanced breeding strategies that characterise and use available genetic diversity, or assess germplasm collections effectively are required to deliver advanced cultivars for production systems. However, there are limited genomic resources available for this forage grass species. Transcriptome sequencing using second-generation sequencing platforms has been employed using pooled RNA from different tissues (stems, roots, leaves and inflorescences) at the final reproductive stage of P. dilatatum cultivar Primo. A total of 324,695 sequence reads were obtained, corresponding to c. 102 Mbp. The sequences were assembled, generating 20,169 contigs of a combined length of 9,336,138 nucleotides. The contigs were BLAST analysed against the fully sequenced grass species of Oryza sativa subsp. japonica, Brachypodium distachyon, the closely related Sorghum bicolor and foxtail millet (Setaria italica) genomes as well as against the UniRef 90 protein database allowing a comprehensive gene ontology analysis to be performed. The contigs generated from the transcript sequencing were also analysed for the presence of simple sequence repeats (SSRs). A total of 2,339 SSR motifs were identified within 1,989 contigs and corresponding primer pairs were designed. Empirical validation of a cohort of 96 SSRs was performed, with 34% being polymorphic between sexual and apomictic biotypes. The development of genetic and genomic resources for P. dilatatum will contribute to gene discovery and expression studies. Association of gene function with agronomic traits will significantly enable molecular breeding and advance germplasm enhancement.
WD40 proteins play a crucial role in diverse protein-protein interactions by acting as scaffolding molecules and thus assisting in the proper activity of proteins. Hence, systematic characterization and expression profiling of these WD40 genes in foxtail millet would enable us to understand the networks of WD40 proteins and their biological processes and gene functions. In the present study, a genome-wide survey was conducted and 225 potential WD40 genes were identified. Phylogenetic analysis categorized the WD40 proteins into 5 distinct sub-families (I-V). Gene Ontology annotation revealed the biological roles of the WD40 proteins along with its cellular components and molecular functions. In silico comparative mapping with sorghum, maize and rice demonstrated the orthologous relationships and chromosomal rearrangements including duplication, inversion and deletion of WD40 genes. Estimation of synonymous and non-synonymous substitution rates revealed its evolutionary significance in terms of gene-duplication and divergence. Expression profiling against abiotic stresses provided novel insights into specific and/or overlapping expression patterns of SiWD40 genes. Homology modeling enabled three-dimensional structure prediction was performed to understand the molecular functions of WD40 proteins. Although, recent findings had shown the importance of WD40 domains in acting as hubs for cellular networks during many biological processes, it has invited a lesser research attention unlike other common domains. Being a most promiscuous interactors, WD40 domains are versatile in mediating critical cellular functions and hence this genome-wide study especially in the model crop foxtail millet would serve as a blue-print for functional characterization of WD40s in millets and bioenergy grass species. In addition, the present analyses would also assist the research community in choosing the candidate WD40s for comprehensive studies towards crop improvement of millets and biofuel grasses.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of short non-coding, endogenous RNAs that play key roles in many biological processes in both animals and plants. Although many miRNAs have been identified in a large number of organisms, the miRNAs in foxtail millet (Setaria italica) have, until now, been poorly understood. In this study, two replicate small RNA libraries from foxtail millet shoots were sequenced, and 40 million reads representing over 10 million unique sequences were generated. We identified 43 known miRNAs, 172 novel miRNAs and 2 mirtron precursor candidates in foxtail millet. Some miRNA*s of the known and novel miRNAs were detected as well. Further, eight novel miRNAs were validated by stem-loop RT-PCR. Potential targets of the foxtail millet miRNAs were predicted based on our strict criteria. Of the predicted target genes, 79% (351) had functional annotations in InterPro and GO analyses, indicating the targets of the miRNAs were involved in a wide range of regulatory functions and some specific biological processes. A total of 69 pairs of syntenic miRNA precursors that were conserved between foxtail millet and sorghum were found. Additionally, stem-loop RT-PCR was conducted to confirm the tissue-specific expression of some miRNAs in the four tissues identified by deep-sequencing. We predicted, for the first time, 215 miRNAs and 447 miRNA targets in foxtail millet at a genome-wide level. The precursors, expression levels, miRNA* sequences, target functions, conservation, and evolution of miRNAs we identified were investigated. Some of the novel foxtail millet miRNAs and miRNA targets were validated experimentally.
Lymphatic filariasis, a global cause of morbidity needs much more attention in developing potent therapeutics that can be effective against both microfilariae (mf) and adults. Efficient botanicals that can induce apoptosis of filarial parasites possibly can provide a direction towards developing new class of antifilarials. In this work we have evaluated the antifilarial efficacy of an optimized polyphenol rich ethanolic extract of Azadirachta indica leaves (EEA). A. indica A. Juss has been widely used in the traditional Indian medicinal system 'Ayurveda' for the treatment of a variety of ailments. A thorough investigation towards biochemical and molecular mechanisms describing ROS mediated apoptosis in Setaria cervi was performed. Motility reduction, MTT reduction assay and dye exclusion test have confirmed the micro- and macrofilaricidal potential of EEA. Alterations were visible in mf and trichrome stained section of EEA-treated adult worms. We have found cellular disturbances in EEA-treated parasites characterized by chromatin condensation, in situ DNA fragmentation and nucleosomal DNA laddering. Depletion in worm GSH level and elevation in parasite GST, SOD, catalase, GPx and superoxide anion indicated the generation of ROS. Our results provided experimental evidence supporting that EEA causes a decreased expression of anti-apoptotic genes and increased pro-apoptotic gene expression at the level of both transcription and translation. Here we are reporting for the first time that antifilarial activity of EEA is mediated by ROS up regulation and apoptosis.
Drought is a major abiotic stress that affects plant growth, production, and survival. Plants have evolved sophisticated and highly complex reactions to drought stress, including large-scale transcriptome reconfiguration. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is a member of the Poaceae family. Because of its outstanding tolerance to drought stress foxtail millet has the potential to become a new model organism. To enrich our knowledge of the processes that contribute to drought resistance, we have used a deep sequencing approach to generate a genome-wide transcriptome of foxtail millet after exposure to simulated drought stress. A large number of differentially expressed genes were characterized; in particular, we examined the roles of small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) in response to a water-deficit condition. These RNAs have remained largely unexplored in previous studies of stress-induced transcriptomes. We found that the reduced levels of 24-nt siRNA flanking genes were associated, for the most part, with proximal up-regulated genes, indicating a potential effect of 24-nt siRNAs on drought-regulated gene expression. Several lncRNAs that responded to the simulated drought stress were also identified, and we found that one of them shared sequence conservation and colinearity with its counterpart in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). Our findings provide new insights into drought-induced changes in the foxtail millet transcriptome.
Gene promoters perceive numerous signals and integrate this information into a single response, the transcriptional activity of a gene. It was speculated that covalent modification of histones on the promoters might have an important function in storage and integration of signals. Using the genes for the core proteins of C4 metabolism in maize as a model, we associated the perception of specific signals with the establishment of individual histone modifications. Core elements of the histone code defined in these studies are conserved on all C4 genes and on other maize genes that respond to similar stimuli. Moreover, the code is used in independent C4 lineages. However, our data also advise caution because interpretation of histone modifications might differ dependent on the promoter position of the modification. The model provided here constitutes a starting point for genome-wide decoding of stimulus-modification pairs in epigenetic gene regulation.
C4 photosynthesis is a complex trait that has a high degree of natural variation, involving anatomical and biochemical changes relative to the ancestral C3 state. It has evolved at least 66 times across a variety of lineages and the evolutionary route from C3 to C4 is likely conserved but not necessarily genetically identical. As such, a variety of C4 species are needed to identify what is fundamental to the C4 evolutionary process in a global context. In order to identify the genetic components of C4 form and function, a number of species are used as genetic models. These include Zea mays (maize), Sorghum bicolor (sorghum), Setaria viridis (Setaria), Flaveria bidentis, and Cleome gynandra. Each of these species has different benefits and challenges associated with its use as a model organism. Here, we propose that RNA profiling of a large sampling of C4, C3-C4, and C3 species, from as many lineages as possible, will allow identification of candidate genes necessary and sufficient to confer C4 anatomy and/or biochemistry. Furthermore, C4 model species will play a critical role in the functional characterization of these candidate genes and identification of their regulatory elements, by providing a platform for transformation and through the use of gene expression profiles in mesophyll and bundle sheath cells and along the leaf developmental gradient. Efforts should be made to sequence the genomes of F. bidentis and C. gynandra and to develop congeneric C3 species as genetic models for comparative studies. In combination, such resources would facilitate discovery of common and unique C4 regulatory mechanisms across genera.
The NAC proteins represent a major plant-specific transcription factor family that has established enormously diverse roles in various plant processes. Aided by the availability of complete genomes, several members of this family have been identified in Arabidopsis, rice, soybean and poplar. However, no comprehensive investigation has been presented for the recently sequenced, naturally stress tolerant crop, Setaria italica (foxtail millet) that is famed as a model crop for bioenergy research. In this study, we identified 147 putative NAC domain-encoding genes from foxtail millet by systematic sequence analysis and physically mapped them onto nine chromosomes. Genomic organization suggested that inter-chromosomal duplications may have been responsible for expansion of this gene family in foxtail millet. Phylogenetically, they were arranged into 11 distinct sub-families (I-XI), with duplicated genes fitting into one cluster and possessing conserved motif compositions. Comparative mapping with other grass species revealed some orthologous relationships and chromosomal rearrangements including duplication, inversion and deletion of genes. The evolutionary significance as duplication and divergence of NAC genes based on their amino acid substitution rates was understood. Expression profiling against various stresses and phytohormones provides novel insights into specific and/or overlapping expression patterns of SiNAC genes, which may be responsible for functional divergence among individual members in this crop. Further, we performed structure modeling and molecular simulation of a stress-responsive protein, SiNAC128, proffering an initial framework for understanding its molecular function. Taken together, this genome-wide identification and expression profiling unlocks new avenues for systematic functional analysis of novel NAC gene family candidates which may be applied for improvising stress adaption in plants.
C4 photosynthesis evolved more than 60 times independently in different plant lineages. Each time, multiple genes were recruited into C4 metabolism. The corresponding promoters acquired new regulatory features such as high expression, light induction, or cell type-specific expression in mesophyll or bundle sheath cells. We have previously shown that histone modifications contribute to the regulation of the model C4 phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (C4-Pepc) promoter in maize (Zea mays). We here tested the light- and cell type-specific responses of three selected histone acetylations and two histone methylations on five additional C4 genes (C4-Ca, C4-Ppdk, C4-Me, C4-Pepck, and C4-RbcS2) in maize. Histone acetylation and nucleosome occupancy assays indicated extended promoter regions with regulatory upstream regions more than 1,000 bp from the transcription initiation site for most of these genes. Despite any detectable homology of the promoters on the primary sequence level, histone modification patterns were highly coregulated. Specifically, H3K9ac was regulated by illumination, whereas H3K4me3 was regulated in a cell type-specific manner. We further compared histone modifications on the C4-Pepc and C4-Me genes from maize and the homologous genes from sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and Setaria italica. Whereas sorghum and maize share a common C4 origin, C4 metabolism evolved independently in S. italica. The distribution of histone modifications over the promoters differed between the species, but differential regulation of light-induced histone acetylation and cell type-specific histone methylation were evident in all three species. We propose that a preexisting histone code was recruited into C4 promoter control during the evolution of C4 metabolism.
Setaria viridis is an emerging model species for genetic studies of C4 photosynthesis. Many basic molecular resources need to be developed to support for this species. In this paper, we performed a comprehensive transcriptome analysis from multiple developmental stages and tissues of S. viridis using next-generation sequencing technologies. Sequencing of the transcriptome from multiple tissues across three developmental stages (seed germination, vegetative growth, and reproduction) yielded a total of 71 million single end 100 bp long reads. Reference-based assembly using Setaria italica genome as a reference generated 42,754 transcripts. De novo assembly generated 60,751 transcripts. In addition, 9,576 and 7,056 potential simple sequence repeats (SSRs) covering S. viridis genome were identified when using the reference based assembled transcripts and the de novo assembled transcripts, respectively. This identified transcripts and SSR provided by this study can be used for both reverse and forward genetic studies based on S. viridis.
A differentially expressed transcript, encoding a putative WD protein (Setaria italica WD40; SiWD40), was identified in foxtail millet. Tertiary structure modeling revealed that its C-terminus possesses eight blade β-propeller architecture. Its N-terminal has three α-helices and two 3(10)-helices and was highly induced by different abiotic stresses. The SiWD40:GFP fusion protein was nuclear localized. Promoter analysis showed the presence of many cis-acting elements, including two dehydration responsive elements (DRE). A stress-responsive SiAP2 domain containing protein could specifically bind to these elements in the SiWD40 promoter. Thus, for the first time, we report that DREs probably regulate expression of SiWD40 during environmental stress. Molecular docking analysis revealed that the circumference of the β-propeller structure was involved in an interaction with a SiCullin4 protein, supporting the adaptability of SiWD40 to act as a scaffold. Our study thus provides a vital clue for near future research on the stress-regulation of WD proteins.
We generated a high-quality reference genome sequence for foxtail millet (Setaria italica). The ∼400-Mb assembly covers ∼80% of the genome and >95% of the gene space. The assembly was anchored to a 992-locus genetic map and was annotated by comparison with >1.3 million expressed sequence tag reads. We produced more than 580 million RNA-Seq reads to facilitate expression analyses. We also sequenced Setaria viridis, the ancestral wild relative of S. italica, and identified regions of differential single-nucleotide polymorphism density, distribution of transposable elements, small RNA content, chromosomal rearrangement and segregation distortion. The genus Setaria includes natural and cultivated species that demonstrate a wide capacity for adaptation. The genetic basis of this adaptation was investigated by comparing five sequenced grass genomes. We also used the diploid Setaria genome to evaluate the ongoing genome assembly of a related polyploid, switchgrass (Panicum virgatum).
In the reported work the in vitro activity of a methanolic extract of leaves of Hibiscus mutabilis (Malvaceae) against bovine Setaria cervi worms has been investigated. Bioassay-guided fractionation led to isolation of ferulic acid from ethyl acetate fraction. The crude extract and ferulic acid, the active molecule, showed significant microfilaricidal as well as macrofilaricidal activities against the microfilaria (L(1)) and adult of S. cervi by both a worm motility and MTT reduction assay. The findings thus provide a new lead for development of a filaricidal drug from natural products. To examine the possible mechanism of action of ferulic acid, the involvement of apoptosis in adult worms of S. cervi was investigated. We found extreme cellular disturbances in ferulic acid-treated adult worms characterized by chromatin condensation, in situ DNA fragmentation and nucleosomal DNA laddering. In this work we are reporting for the first time that ferulic acid exerts its antifilarial effect through induction of apoptosis and by downregulating and altering the level of some key antioxidants (GSH, GST and SOD) of the filarial nematode S. cervi. Our results have provided experimental evidence supporting that ferulic acid causes an increased proapoptotic gene expression and decreased expression of anti-apoptotic genes simultaneously with an elevated level of ROS and gradual dose dependent decline of parasitic GSH level. We also observed a gradual dose dependent elevation of GST and SOD activity in the ferulic acid treated worms.
Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) is a C4 perennial grass and widely popular as an important bioenergy crop. To accelerate the pace of developing high yielding switchgrass cultivars adapted to diverse environmental niches, the generation of genomic resources for this plant is necessary. The large genome size and polyploid nature of switchgrass makes whole genome sequencing a daunting task even with current technologies. Exploring the transcriptional landscape using next generation sequencing technologies provides a viable alternative to whole genome sequencing in switchgrass. Switchgrass cDNA libraries from germinating seedlings, emerging tillers, flowers, and dormant seeds were sequenced using Roche 454 GS-FLX Titanium technology, generating 980,000 reads with an average read length of 367 bp. De novo assembly generated 243,600 contigs with an average length of 535 bp. Using the foxtail millet genome as a reference greatly improved the assembly and annotation of switchgrass ESTs. Comparative analysis of the 454-derived switchgrass EST reads with other sequenced monocots including Brachypodium, sorghum, rice and maize indicated a 70-80% overlap. RPKM analysis demonstrated unique transcriptional signatures of the four tissues analyzed in this study. More than 24,000 ESTs were identified in the dormant seed library. In silico analysis indicated that there are more than 2000 EST-SSRs in this collection. Expression of several orphan ESTs was confirmed by RT-PCR. We estimate that about 90% of the switchgrass gene space has been covered in this analysis. This study nearly doubles the amount of EST information for switchgrass currently in the public domain. The celerity and economical nature of second-generation sequencing technologies provide an in-depth view of the gene space of complex genomes like switchgrass. Sequence analysis of closely related members of the NAD(+)-malic enzyme type C4 grasses such as the model system Setaria viridis can serve as a viable proxy for the switchgrass genome.
Introns are noncoding sequences in a gene that are transcribed to precursor mRNA but spliced out during mRNA maturation and are abundant in eukaryotic genomes. The availability of codominant molecular markers and saturated genetic linkage maps have been limited in foxtail millet (Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv.). Here, we describe the development of 98 novel intron length polymorphic (ILP) markers in foxtail millet using sequence information of the model plant rice. A total of 575 nonredundant expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences were obtained, of which 327 and 248 unique sequences were from dehydration- and salinity-stressed suppression subtractive hybridization libraries, respectively. The BLAST analysis of 98 EST sequences suggests a nearly defined function for about 64% of them, and they were grouped into 11 different functional categories. All 98 ILP primer pairs showed a high level of cross-species amplification in two millets and two nonmillets species ranging from 90% to 100%, with a mean of ∼97%. The mean observed heterozygosity and Nei's average gene diversity 0.016 and 0.171, respectively, established the efficiency of the ILP markers for distinguishing the foxtail millet accessions. Based on 26 ILP markers, a reasonable dendrogram of 45 foxtail millet accessions was constructed, demonstrating the utility of ILP markers in germplasm characterizations and genomic relationships in millets and nonmillets species.
The DREB genes code for important plant transcription factors involved in the abiotic stress response and signal transduction. Characterization of DREB genes and development of functional markers for effective alleles is important for marker-assisted selection in foxtail millet. Here the characterization of a cDNA (SiDREB2) encoding a putative dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2 from foxtail millet and the development of an allele-specific marker (ASM) for dehydration tolerance is reported. A cDNA clone (GenBank accession no. GT090998) coding for a putative DREB2 protein was isolated as a differentially expressed gene from a 6 h dehydration stress SSH library. A 5' RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA ends) was carried out to obtain the full-length cDNA, and sequence analysis showed that SiDREB2 encoded a polypeptide of 234 amino acids with a predicted mol. wt of 25.72 kDa and a theoretical pI of 5.14. A theoretical model of the tertiary structure shows that it has a highly conserved GCC-box-binding N-terminal domain, and an acidic C-terminus that acts as an activation domain for transcription. Based on its similarity to AP2 domains, SiDREB2 was classified into the A-2 subgroup of the DREB subfamily. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis showed significant up-regulation of SiDREB2 by dehydration (polyethylene glycol) and salinity (NaCl), while its expression was less affected by other stresses. A synonymous single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) associated with dehydration tolerance was detected at the 558th base pair (an A/G transition) in the SiDREB2 gene in a core set of 45 foxtail millet accessions used. Based on the identified SNP, three primers were designed to develop an ASM for dehydration tolerance. The ASM produced a 261 bp fragment in all the tolerant accessions and produced no amplification in the sensitive accessions. The use of this ASM might be faster, cheaper, and more reproducible than other SNP genotyping methods, and thus will enable marker-aided breeding of foxtail millet for dehydration tolerance.
The plant-specific NAC (NAM, ATAF, and CUC) transcription factors have diverse role in development and stress regulation. A transcript encoding NAC protein, termed SiNAC was identified from a salt stress subtractive cDNA library of S. italica seedling (Puranik et al., J Plant Physiol 168:280-287, 2011). This single/low copy gene containing four exons and four introns within the genomic-sequence encoded a protein of 462 amino acids. Structural analysis revealed that highly divergent C terminus contains a transmembrane domain. The NAC domain consisted of a twisted antiparallel beta-sheet packing against N terminal alpha helix on one side and a shorter helix on the other side. The domain was predicted to homodimerize and control DNA-binding specificity. The physicochemical features of the SiNAC homodimer interface justified the dimeric form of the predicted model. A 1539 bp fragment upstream to the start codon of SiNAC gene was cloned and in silico analysis revealed several putative cis-acting regulatory elements within the promoter sequence. Transactivation analysis indicated that SiNAC activated expression of reporter gene and the activation domain lied at the C terminal. The SiNAC:GFP was detected in the nucleus and cytoplasm while SiNAC ΔC(1-158):GFP was nuclear localized in onion epidermal cells. SiNAC transcripts mostly accumulated in young spikes and were strongly induced by dehydration, salinity, ethephon, and methyl jasmonate. These results suggest that SiNAC encodes a membrane associated NAC-domain protein that may function as a transcriptional activator in response to stress and developmental regulation in plants.
C4 photosynthesis is an adaptation that evolved to alleviate the detrimental effects of photorespiration as a result of the gradual decline in atmospheric carbon dioxide levels. In most C4 plants, two cell types, bundle sheath and mesophyll, cooperate in carbon fixation, and, in so doing, are able to alleviate photorespiratory losses. Although much of the biochemistry is well characterized, little is known about the genetic mechanisms underlying the cell-type specificity driving C4 . However, several studies have shown that regulation acts at multiple levels, including transcriptional, post-transcriptional, post-translational and epigenetic. One example of such a regulatory mechanism is the cell-specific accumulation of major photorespiratory transcripts/proteins in bundle sheath cells, where ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase is localized. Although many of the genes are expressed in the bundle sheath, some are expressed in both cell types, implicating post-transcriptional control mechanisms. Recently, ultra-high-throughput sequencing techniques and sophisticated mass spectrometry instrumentation have provided new opportunities to further our understanding of C4 regulation. Computational pipelines are being developed to accommodate the mass of data associated with these techniques. Finally, we discuss a readily transformable C4 grass--Setaria viridis--that has great potential to serve as a model for the genetic dissection of C4 photosynthesis in the grasses.
Plant architecture determines grain production in rice (Oryza sativa) and is affected by important agronomic traits such as tillering, plant height, and panicle morphology. Many key genes involved in controlling the initiation and outgrowth of axillary buds, the elongation of stems, and the architecture of inflorescences have been isolated and analyzed. Previous studies have shown that SiPf40, which was identified from a foxtail millet (Setaria italica) immature seed cDNA library, causes extra branches and tillers in SiPf40-transgenic tobacco and foxtail millet, respectively. To reconfirm its function, we generated transgenic rice plants overexpressing SiPf40 under the control of the ubiquitin promoter. SiPf40-overexpressing transgenic plants have a greater tillering number and a wider tiller angle than wild-type plants. Their root architecture is modified by the promotion of lateral root development, and the distribution of xylem and phloem in the vascular bundle is affected. Analysis of hormone levels showed that the ratios of indole-3-acetic acid/zeatin (IAA/ZR) and IAA/gibberellic acid (IAA/GA) decreased in SiPf40-transgenic plants compared with wild-type plants. These findings strongly suggest that SiPf40 plays an important role in plant architecture.
Soil salinity represents a major abiotic stress that adversely affects crop growth and productivity. In this study, 21-day-old seedlings of two foxtail millet (Setaria italica) cultivars differing in salt tolerance were found to also differ in lipid peroxidation, ion balance and activity of antioxidative enzymes (glutathione reductase and catalase) under short-term salinity stress (250 mM NaCl for 1-48 h). With the aim of better understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying plant responses to short-term salinity stress, two suppression subtractive hybridization cDNA libraries (forward and reverse) were constructed of these cultivars. A total of 249 non-redundant ESTs was identified by random EST sequencing and grouped into 11 functional categories. Macroarray analysis of these clones showed that 159 (63.9%) were differentially expressed (≥ 2-fold) in response to salinity stress, with 115 (72.3%) up and 44 (27.7%) down-regulated. A data search of transcriptional profiling under salinity stress in other species revealed that 81 (51%) of the 159 differentially expressed transcripts found in foxtail millet have not been reported in previous studies. Hence, these new transcripts may represent untapped gene sources allowing specific responses to short-term salt-stress in an orphan crop known to possess a natural adaptation capacity to abiotic stress. Quantitative real-time PCR of 21 highly up-regulated (≥ 2.5-fold) transcripts showed temporal variation in expression in both cultivars under salinity. Among them, several transcription factors and signalling genes were preferentially expressed in the tolerant cultivar. These results suggest that the tolerant cultivar possesses more effective signal-perception mechanisms for metabolic adjustments in plants under harsh saline conditions. Our findings provide evidence that the unknown genes identified in this study, in addition to several known genes, may play important roles in stress tolerance mechanisms present in foxtail millet.
Phospholipase D (PLD) plays an important role in various physiological processes in plants, including drought tolerance. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of the full-length cDNA of PLDalpha1 from foxtail millet, which is a cereal crop with high water use efficiency. The expression pattern of the SiPLDalpha1 gene in foxtail millet revealed that it is up-regulated under dehydration, ABA and NaCl treatments. Heterologous overexpression of SiPLDalpha1 in Arabidopsis can significantly enhance their sensitivity to ABA, NaCl and mannitol during post-germination growth. Under water deprivation, overexpression of SiPLDalpha1 in Arabidopsis resulted in significantly enhanced tolerance to drought stress, displaying higher biomass and RWC, lower ion leakage and higher survival percentages than the wild type. Further analysis indicated that transgenic plants showed increased transcription of the stress-related genes, RD29A, RD29B, RAB18 and RD22, and the ABA-related genes, ABI1 and NCED3 under dehydration conditions. These results demonstrate that SiPLDalpha1 is involved in plant stress signal transduction, especially in the ABA signaling pathway. Moreover, no obvious adverse effects on growth and development in the 35S::SiPLDalpha1 transgenic plants implied that SiPLDalpha1 is a good candidate gene for improving crop drought tolerance.
Dehydration stress is one of the most important abiotic stresses that adversely influence crop growth and productivity. With the aim to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying dehydration stress tolerance in foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.), a drought tolerant crop, we examined its transcriptome changes at two time points (early and late) of dehydration stress. Two suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) forward libraries were constructed from 21-day old seedlings of tolerant cv. Prasad at 0.5 and 6h PEG-induced dehydration stress. A total of 327 unique ESTs were identified from both libraries and were classified into 11 different categories according to their putative functions. The plant response against dehydration stress was complex, representing major transcripts involved in metabolism, stress, signaling, transcription regulation, translation and proteolysis. By Reverse Northern (RN) technique we identified the differential expression pattern of 327 transcripts, 86 (about 26%) of which showed > or = 1.7-fold induction. Further the obtained results were validated by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) to have a comparative expression profiling of randomly chosen 9 up-regulated transcripts (> or =2.5 fold induction) between cv. Prasad (tolerant) and cv. Lepakshi (sensitive) upon dehydration stress. These transcripts showed a differential expression pattern in both cultivars at different time points of stress treatment as analyzed by qRT-PCR. The possible relationship of the identified transcripts with dehydration tolerance mechanism is discussed.
A SiPf40 gene was identified from an immature seed cDNA library of foxtail millet (Setaria italica). This gene encodes for a 29.4 KDa protein containing eight potential transmembrane domains and a highly conserved ZIP signature motif typical of ZIPs (zinc or iron transporter proteins) family. Other SiPf40 potential homologous genes have also been identified in rice, maize, wheat and Arabidopsis by Southern analysis. Expression data showed that this gene is preferentially expressed in millet hypocotyl and bud; however, a minimal level of constitutive expression could be detected in other foxtail millet tissues. Overexpression of SiPf40 gene causes extra branches in tobacco and extra tillering in millet associated with vessel enlarging and xylary fibers increasing, whereas the tiller number decreases in SiPf40 gene silenced plants. Moreover, IAA content decreased significantly in shoot apex of the transgenic tobacco overexpressing SiPf40 gene. All together, these morphological alterations indicate that SiPf40 gene is essential for lateral shoots growth.
Plant growth and productivity are affected by various abiotic stresses such as heat, drought, cold, salinity, etc. The mechanism of salt tolerance is one of the most important subjects in plant science as salt stress decreases worldwide agricultural production. In our present study we used cDNA-AFLP technique to compare gene expression profiles of a salt tolerant and a salt-sensitive cultivar of foxtail millet (Seteria italica) in response to salt stress to identify early responsive differentially expressed transcripts accumulated upon salt stress and validate the obtained result through quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The expression profile was compared between a salt tolerant (Prasad) and susceptible variety (Lepakshi) of foxtail millet in both control condition (L0 and P0) and after 1 h (L1 and P1) of salt stress. We identified 90 transcript-derived fragments (TDFs) that are differentially expressed, out of which 86 TDFs were classified on the basis of their either complete presence or absence (qualitative variants) and 4 on differential expression pattern levels (quantitative variants) in the two varieties. Finally, we identified 27 non-redundant differentially expressed cDNAs that are unique to salt tolerant variety which represent different groups of genes involved in metabolism, cellular transport, cell signaling, transcriptional regulation, mRNA splicing, seed development and storage, etc. The expression patterns of seven out of nine such genes showed a significant increase of differential expression in tolerant variety after 1 h of salt stress in comparison to salt-sensitive variety as analyzed by qRT-PCR. The direct and indirect relationship of identified TDFs with salinity tolerance mechanism is discussed.
Foxtail millet is a gramineous crop with low water requirement. Despite its high water use efficiency, less attention has been paid to the molecular genetics of foxtail millet. This article reports the construction of subtracted cDNA libraries from foxtail millet seedlings under dehydration stress and the expression profile analysis of 1947 UniESTs from the subtracted cDNA libraries by a cDNA microarray. The results showed that 95 and 57 ESTs were upregulated by dehydration stress, respectively, in roots and shoots of seedlings and that 10 and 27 ESTs were downregulated, respectively, in roots and shoots. The expression profile analysis showed that genes induced in foxtail millet roots were different from those in shoots during dehydration stress and that the early response to dehydration stress in foxtail millet roots was the activation of the glycolysis metabolism. Moreover, protein degradation pathway may also play a pivotal role in drought-tolerant responses of foxtail millet. Finally, Northern blot analysis validated well the cDNA microarray data.
Foxtail millet is a gramineous crop with low water requirement. Cloning of osmotic responses-related genes from foxtail millet is a key step for understanding the mechanism of its tolerance to drought. Here we reported the cloning and characterization of a cDNA (SiOPR1) encoding a putative 12-oxophytodienoic acid reductase 1 from foxtail millet by using RACE methods. Sequence analysis showed that SiOPR1 encoded a polypeptide of 374 amino acids with a predicted molecular mass of 41.9 kDa and pI of 5.14. Multiple alignment result showed that OPR1 protein was very conservative among gramineous crops. RNA gel blot analysis results indicated that SiOPR1 was up-regulated by osmotic stress, and its expression was limited in the roots of foxtail millet. However, SiOPR1 expression was not affected by ABA, NaCl and MeJA treatments both in roots and shoots. Therefore, it is suggested that SiOPR1 gene play an important role in response to drought stress.
Using a macro array filter with 711 cDNA inserts representing 620 unigenes selected from a barley EST collection, we identified transcripts differentially expressed in salt (NaCl)-treated tolerant (cv. Prasad) and sensitive (cv. Lepakshi) seedlings of foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.). Transcripts of hydrogen peroxide scavenging enzymes such as phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (PHGPX), ascorbate peroxidase (APX) and catalase 1 (CAT1) in addition to some genes of cellular metabolism were found to be especially up-regulated at high salinity in the tolerant line. To analyse this process at the protein level we examined protein expression patterns under various stress conditions. A 25 kD protein with a pI of 4.8 was found to be induced prominently under high salt concentrations (250 mmol/L). This salt-induced 25 kD protein has been purified and identified by peptide sequencing as PHGPX protein. The increase of the PHGPX protein level under salt stress in the tolerant line parallels the PHGPX mRNA results of array analysis but was more pronounced. We cloned and characterized the foxtail millet PHGPX cDNA, which shows 85% and 95% homology at the DNA and protein level, respectively, to one stress-induced member of the small barley PHGPX gene family encoding non-selenium glutathione peroxidases. As shown by Southern blot analysis, a small family of PHGPX genes exists in foxtail millet, too. The specific expression pattern of the PHGPX gene in salt-induced tolerant millet seedlings suggests that its product plays an important role in the defense reaction against salt-induced oxidative damage and that the characterized glutathione peroxidase is one of the components conferring resistance against salt to the tolerant foxtail millet cultivar.
The origin and evolution of the waxy type of foxtail millet [Setaria italica (L.) P. Beauv] were studied by analyzing structural variation in the Waxy gene. Initially, the Waxy gene was amplified by RT-PCR, RACE and genomic PCR from a non-waxy strain to determine the structure of the wild-type gene. Secondly, we screened by PCR for polymorphisms at the Waxy locus in 79 strains with various waxy phenotypes. We then carried out genomic Southern analysis on 67 strains and identified seven RFLP classes which were designated as types I-VII. RFLP type was correlated with phenotype, such that types I and II corresponded to non-waxy, types III and VI to low-amylose, and types IV, V and VII to waxy phenotypes. The differences between RFLP types could be attributed to insertions in the Waxy gene. Types II and VI were caused by the insertion of a Tourist element into intron 1 and a SINE-like sequence into intron 12, respectively. Types III, IV, V and VII were characterized by the insertion of large sequences into the Waxy gene that may alter the expression of the gene. Thus, multiple, independent insertions in the Waxy gene appear to have caused the loss-of-function waxy phenotypes. Furthermore, the geographical distributions of the three RFLP types associated with the waxy phenotype (types IV, V and VII) were distinct, with type IV being found mainly in Taiwan and Japan, type V in Korea, and type VII in Myanmar. These results indicate a polyphyletic origin for the waxy phenotype in landraces of foxtail millet.
This study first identifies the SbC1, an R2R3-MYB transcription factor, specifically function as the key positive regulator for anthocyanin biosynthesis in sorghum coleoptiles. Anthocyanins are pivotal in plant growth, development, and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying anthocyanin biosynthesis in sorghum, one of the major cereal crops worldwide, remain largely unexplored. Here, through genome-wide association study (GWAS), virus induced gene silencing (VIGS) experiment and haplotype analysis, we identified a key R2R3-MYB gene, SbC1, that specifically regulates anthocyanin accumulation in sorghum coleoptiles but not in grain. Further transcriptomic analysis of the coleoptiles of the cultivars HYZ (SbC1) and QKY (sbc1-a mutant allele) demonstrated the positive regulatory role of SbC1 in anthocyanin biosynthesis genes. The SbC1 protein predominantly localizes within the cell nucleus, where it interacts with Tan1. The interaction between SbC1 and Tan1 was confirmed through split-luciferase (Split-LUC), yeast two-hybrid (Y2H), and coimmunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assays. Comparative genomic analysis suggested that the R2R3-MYB transcription factors responsible for anthocyanin biosynthesis exhibit a similar molecular genetic basis in the parallel evolution of organ decoloration across different cereals. Addationnaly, overexpression of SbC1 in the rice Osc1 mutant complete rescue the anthocyanin accumulation defection and enhanced drought resistance compared with the control. In summary, for the first time, we identified the key transcription factor that specifically governs anthocyanin biosynthesis in sorghum coleoptiles. This discovery represents a significant breakthrough in understanding the molecular mechanisms of anthocyanin accumulation in sorghum and offers valuable genetic resources for plant breeding and biotechnology.
The timing of flowering is determined by a complex genetic architecture integrating signals from a diverse set of external and internal stimuli and plays a key role in determining plant fitness and adaptation. However, significant divergence in the identities and functions of many flowering time pathway components has been reported among plant species. Here, we employ a combination of genome and transcriptome wide association studies to identify genetic determinants of variation in flowering time across multiple environments in a large panel of primarily photoperiod-insensitive sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), a major crop that has, to date, been the subject of substantially less genetic investigation than its relatives. Gene families that form core components of the flowering time pathway in other species, FT-like and SOC1-like genes, appear to play similar roles in sorghum, but the genes identified are not orthologous to the primary FT-like or SOC1-like genes that play similar roles in related species. The ageing pathway appears to play a role in determining non-photoperiod determined variation in flowering time in sorghum. Two components of this pathway were identified in a transcriptome wide association study, while a third was identified via genome-wide association. Our results demonstrate that while the functions of larger gene families are conserved, functional data from even closely related species is not a reliable guide to which gene copies will play roles in determining natural variation in flowering time.
Cadmium (Cd) stress significantly affects the growth, development, and utilization of sorghum. Although the molecular pathways responding to Cd stress in sorghum remain incompletely understood, glutathione transferase (GST) is recognized for its critical role in plant responses to heavy metals and detoxification processes. In this study, we examined the influence of SbGST40 on Cd accumulation in sorghum. Our results indicate that SbGST40 is responsive to Cd stress, with its overexpression markedly enhancing Cd tolerance in sorghum while inhibiting Cd accumulation. Furthermore, we discovered that SbWRKY10 directly interacts with the promoter region of SbGST40, thereby augmenting its transcriptional activity. Additionally, SbMPK13 directly interacts with and phosphorylates SbWRKY10. Notably, in sorghum lines that overexpress SbMPK13, the protein stability of SbWRKY10 is enhanced, further amplifying the regulatory influence of SbWRKY10 on SbGST40 expression. Collectively, our findings elucidate the role of the module comprising SbMPK13, SbWRKY10, and SbGST40, which is crucial for mediating Cd accumulation in sorghum.
Plant NAC transcription factors (TFs) are essential genes that modulate plant responses to abiotic stress. In this study, we identified a novel NAC TF, SbNAC074, in sorghum, which exhibits a response to salt stress. Overexpression of SbNAC074 in tobacco significantly enhanced the salt tolerance of transgenic plants. Measurements of stress-related physiological indicators revealed that the overexpression of SbNAC074 led to a reduction in the accumulation of malondialdehyde (MDA) and hydrogen peroxide (H
Abscisic acid (ABA) seed priming impacts plant growth and stress resistance, yet its precise physiological and molecular mechanisms remain elusive. This study explored the role of ABA-priming in enhancing drought acclimation in sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor Moench) using physiological assessments and comparative transcriptomics. Under drought stress, ABA-primed seedlings exhibited increased plant height, larger leaves, and higher leaf water content compared to non-primed plants. While drought negatively affected photosynthesis through the regulation of photosystem I and II, ABA-priming improved photosynthesis and WUE by involving in differential expression of photosystem II genes. ABA-priming promoted the accumulation of cuticular wax and cutin, effectively reducing leaf water loss. Drought triggered endogenous ABA production via ABA inactivation genes (UGT, BGLU), while ABA-priming activated auxin (IAA) biosynthesis via YUCCA, enhancing auxin-mediated responses and gibberellic acid (GA) signalling. The synergistic action of ABA and IAA culminated in enhanced drought tolerance. Additionally, ABA-priming and drought stress regulated NAC transcription factors, with SbNAC21-1 emerging as a pivotal transcriptional activator intricately linked to auxin signalling. Overexpression of SbNAC21-1 in Arabidopsis effectively enhanced drought tolerance. These findings offer valuable insights into the intricate mechanisms underpinning the beneficial effects of ABA-priming, ultimately enhancing plant adaptability to environmental stressors.
Low temperature at the seedling stage adversely affects sorghum growth and development and limits its geographical distribution. APETALA2/Ethylene-Responsive transcription factors (AP2/ERFs), one of the largest transcription factor families in plants, play essential roles in growth, development, and responses to abiotic stresses. However, the roles of AP2/ERF genes in cold tolerance in sorghum and the mechanisms underlying their effects remain largely unknown. Here, transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed on the leaves of sorghum seedlings before and after cold treatment. Several candidate genes for cold tolerance and regulation pathways involved in "photosynthesis" under cold stress were identified via Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment. Additionally, the AP2/ERF family gene
Phytophthora blight is a highly destructive soil-borne disease caused by Phytophthora capsici Leonian, which threatens pepper production. The molecular mechanism of pepper resistance to phytophthora blight is unclear, and the excavation and functional analysis of resistant genes are the bases and prerequisites for phytophthora blight-resistant breeding. We aimed to analyze the expression patterns of key genes in the plant-pathogen interaction metabolic pathway and propose a working model of the pepper defense signal network against Phytophthora capsici infection. The 'ZCM334' pepper material used in this study is a high-generation inbred line that is immune to Phytophthora capsici and shows no signs of infection after inoculation. Comparative transcriptome analysis of the roots of 'ZCM334' and the susceptible material 'Early Calwonder' revealed significant differences in their gene expression profiles at different stages after inoculation. Most differentially expressed genes were significantly enriched in the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, plant-pathogen interaction, and fatty acid degradation metabolic pathways. Some defense genes and transcription factors significant in pepper resistance to phytophthora blight were identified, including PR1, RPP13, FLS2, CDPK, CML, MAPK, RLP, RLK, WRYK, ERF, MYB, and bHLH, most of which were regulated after inoculation. A working model was constructed for the defense signal network of pepper against Phytophthora capsici. These data provide a valuable source of information for improving our understanding of the potential molecular mechanisms by which pepper plants resist infection by Phytophthora capsici. The identification of key genes and metabolic pathways provides avenues for further exploring the immune mechanism of 'ZCM334' resistance to phytophthora blight.
Sugarcane, which provides 80% of global table sugar and 40% of biofuel, presents unique breeding challenges due to its highly polyploid, heterozygous, and frequently aneuploid genome. Significant progress has been made in developing genetic resources, including the recently completed reference genome of the sugarcane cultivar R570 and pan-genomic resources from sorghum, a closely related diploid species. Biotechnological approaches including RNA interference (RNAi), overexpression of transgenes, and gene editing technologies offer promising avenues for accelerating sugarcane improvement. These methods have successfully targeted genes involved in important traits such as sucrose accumulation, lignin biosynthesis, biomass oil accumulation, and stress response. One of the main transformation methods-biolistic gene transfer or Agrobacterium-mediated transformation-coupled with efficient tissue culture protocols, is typically used for implementing these biotechnology approaches. Emerging technologies show promise for overcoming current limitations. The use of morphogenic genes can help address genotype constraints and improve transformation efficiency. Tissue culture-free technologies, such as spray-induced gene silencing, virus-induced gene silencing, or virus-induced gene editing, offer potential for accelerating functional genomics studies. Additionally, novel approaches including base and prime editing, orthogonal synthetic transcription factors, and synthetic directed evolution present opportunities for enhancing sugarcane traits. These advances collectively aim to improve sugarcane's efficiency as a crop for both sugar and biofuel production. This review aims to discuss the progress made in sugarcane methodologies, with a focus on RNAi and gene editing approaches, how RNAi can be used to inform functional gene targets, and future improvements and applications.
Forward genetic screens of mutant populations are fundamental for functional genomics studies. However, isolating independent mutant alleles to molecularly identify causal genes is challenging in species recalcitrant to genetic manipulation. Here, we demonstrate that classic seed ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) mutagenesis coupled with genome sequencing can overcome this limitation in sorghum. We used this method to generate new mutant alleles of sorghum MALE STERILE 8 (MS8) and identified the causal locus for the ms8 phenotype as Sobic.004G270900, which encodes the sorghum ortholog of maize bhlh122, a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor required for male fertility in maize. Bulked segregant analysis mapped ms8-1 to a region on chromosome 4 containing Sobic.004G270900. Seeds from heterozygous MS8/ms8-1 plants were mutagenized and screened for chimeric inflorescences containing sectors with white, sterile anthers resembling the ms8-1 homozygous phenotype. DNA sequencing of sterile and fertile sectors from a single chimeric inflorescence revealed two mutations in Sobic.004G270900 within the sterile sector, but not the fertile sector. Isolation of this loss-of-function allele (ms8-2) established Sobic.004G270900 as the causative locus for male sterility in the ms8 mutant. We generated additional alleles of MS8 in a different genetic background using CRISPR/Cas9-based gene editing, where deletions in Sobic.004G270900 also resulted in male sterility. Our work identified a gene underlying male sterility in sorghum and provides a novel and straightforward genetic tool for researchers who lack access to advanced transformation facilities to validate gene candidates. Unlike gene editing, no prior knowledge of candidate genes is required for targeted seed EMS mutagenesis to aid identification of causal loci.
Identifying key regulators of important genes in non-model crop species is challenging due to limited multi-omics resources. To address this, we introduce the network-enabled gene discovery pipeline NEEDLE, a user-friendly tool that systematically generates coexpression gene network modules, measures gene connectivity, and establishes network hierarchy to pinpoint key transcriptional regulators from dynamic transcriptome datasets. After validating its accuracy with two independent datasets, we applied NEEDLE to identify transcription factors (TFs) regulating the expression of cellulose synthase-like F6 (CSLF6), a crucial cell wall biosynthetic gene, in Brachypodium and sorghum. Our analyses uncover regulators of CSLF6 and also shed light on the evolutionary conservation or divergence of gene regulatory elements among grass species. These results highlight NEEDLE's capability to provide biologically relevant TF predictions and demonstrate its value for non-model plant species with dynamic transcriptome datasets.
Salinity tolerance in brewing sorghum is a very important trait, especially in areas that are affected by soil salinity. In order to elucidate the mechanism underlying salt tolerance, we conducted a comparative analysis of the transcriptome and metabolome in two distinct sweet sorghum genotypes, namely the salt-tolerant line NY1298 and the salt-sensitive line MY1176, following exposure to salt treatment. Our initial findings indicate the presence of genotype-specific responses in brewing sorghum under salt stress conditions. Notably, there were variations in the expression of genes and metabolites among different genotypes in response to high-salt stress. Specifically, certain transcription factors belonging to the WRKY, MYB, and NAC families were identified as being involved in the response to increased external salinity. WGCNA analysis identified stage-specific gene expression for different salinity gradients in each cultivar, and explored the gene function by KEGG enrichment analysis. Combined analysis of DEGs and DEMs in hormone synthesis found AUX/IAA, SAUR, CRE1, A-ARR, PP2C, SNRK2 genes, and 3-indoleacetic acid and jasmonic acid were evidently differential expression among different salt concentrations. Taken together, our study carried out a comprehensive overview of two genotypes of brewing sorghum gene and metabolite expression differences in response to salt stress, and expanded the understanding of responsive mechanism of brewing sorghum to salt stress.
Sugar, the primary product of photosynthesis, is a vital requirement for cell activities. Allocation of sugar from source to sink tissues is facilitated by sugar transporters (ST). These STs belong to the Major Facilitator Superfamily (MFS), the largest family of STs in plants. In this study, we performed genome wide and gene expression data analysis to identify the putative ST genes in
Conserved non-coding sequences (CNS) are islands of non-coding sequences conserved across species and play an important role in regulating the spatiotemporal expression of genes. Identification of CNS provides valuable information about potentially functional genomic elements, regulatory regions, and helps to gain insights into the genetic basis of crop agronomic traits. Here, we comprehensively analyze CNS in maize, by comparing the genomes of maize inbred line B73 (Zea mays ssp. mays), its close wild relative Zea mays spp. mexicana, and other grasses in Poaceae, including sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), foxtail millet (Setaria italica) and two adlay (Coix lacryma) cultivars. There were 289,931 CNS found in two syntenic gene pairs, while 51,701 CNS were conserved within at least three species. To explore the regulatory characteristics of the CNS identified, the flanking regions of CNS were compared with the peaks called using both transposase-accessible chromatin with high-throughput sequencing (ATAC-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation with high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-Seq) data of histone modifications. It was found that CNS in maize were enriched in open chromatin regions compared with randomly selected non-coding regions of similar length. A significant enrichment of transcription factor binding sites was found within CNS sequences, including different transcription factors involved in abiotic stress response, such as OBP (OBF-BINDING PROTEIN) family and Adof1 (Encodes dof zinc finger protein). To investigate the epigenetic modification patterns in CNS, ChIP-Seq data for histone modifications H3K9ac, H3K4me3, H3K36me3, H3K9me3, and H3K27ac were further analyzed to depict the changes along CNS. Our findings revealed significantly elevated levels of transcription-promoting histone modifications in the CNS regions compared to randomly selected non-coding sequences with an equal number and similar length. Notably, CNS were also identified on both Vgt1 (Vegetative to generative transition 1) and ZmCCT10. In addition, CNS with potential functions were identified based on SNPs within CNS significantly associated with various agronomic traits in maize, which holds potential utility in molecular breeding for maize. In summary, we identified and characterized CNS in maize through genomic comparative analysis, which provides valuable insights into their potential regulatory effects on gene expression and phenotypic variation.
The Arabidopsis transcription factor ATAF1 negatively regulates thermomorphogenesis by inhibiting the expression of key genes involved in thermoresponsive elongation. DET1-mediated ubiquitination promotes ATAF1 degradation. In response to warmer, non-stressful average temperatures, plants have evolved an adaptive morphologic response called thermomorphogenesis to increase their fitness. This adaptive morphologic development is regulated by transcription factors (TFs) that control the expression of heat-induced genes that gate thermoresponsive growth. No apical meristem (NAM), Arabidopsis thaliana-activating factor 1/2 (ATAF1/2), and cup-shaped cotyledon 2 (CUC2) (collectively known as NAC) TFs regulate morphogenesis and respond to temperature stress, but whether they regulate thermomorphogenesis remains largely unknown. Here, we identified ATAF1 as a negative regulator of thermomorphogenesis and revealed that the E3-ligase component de-etiolated 1 (DET1) mediated ATAF1 ubiquitination and degradation. Our results revealed that ATAF1 negatively regulates warm temperature-induced hypocotyl elongation and inhibits the expression of thermoresponsive genes. Moreover, ATAF1 directly targeted and repressed the expression of YUCCA 8 (YUC8) and phytochrome interacting factor 4 (PIF4), two key regulators involved in elongation. At the post-translational level, elevated ambient temperatures negatively modulated the stability of ATAF1 by inducing the DET1-mediated ubiquitination pathway. Our results demonstrated the presence of a DET1-ATAF1-PIF4/YUC8 control module for thermomorphogenesis in plants, which may increase fitness by fine-tuning thermoresponsive gene expression under warm temperatures.
Manipulating plant height is an essential component of crop improvement. Plant height was generally reduced through breeding in wheat, rice, and sorghum to resist lodging and increase grain yield but kept high for bioenergy crops. Here, we positionally cloned a plant height quantitative trait locus (QTL) qHT7.1 as a MYB transcription factor controlling internode elongation, cell proliferation, and cell morphology in sorghum. A 740 bp transposable element insertion in the intronic region caused a partial mis-splicing event, generating a novel transcript that included an additional exon and a premature stop codon, leading to short plant height. The dominant allele had an overall higher expression than the recessive allele across development and internode position, while both alleles' expressions peaked at 46 days after planting and progressively decreased from the top to lower internodes. The orthologue of qHT7.1 was identified to underlie the brachytic1 (br1) locus in maize. A large insertion in exon 3 and a 160 bp insertion at the promoter region were identified in the br1 mutant, while an 18 bp promoter insertion was found to be associated with reduced plant height in a natural recessive allele. CRISPR/Cas9-induced gene knockout of br1 in two maize inbred lines showed significant plant height reduction. These findings revealed functional connections across natural, mutant, and edited alleles of this MYB transcription factor in sorghum and maize. This enriched our understanding of plant height regulation and enhanced our toolbox for fine-tuning plant height for crop improvement.
Flavonoids in Musaceae are involved in pigmentation and stress responses, including cold resistance, and are a component of the healthy human diet. Identification and analysis of the sequence and copy number of flavonoid biosynthetic genes are valuable for understanding the nature and diversity of flavonoid evolution in Musaceae species. In this study, we identified 71-80 flavonoid biosynthetic genes in chromosome-scale genome sequence assemblies of Musaceae, including those of
Plant architecture is a major determinant of planting density, which enhances productivity potential for crops per unit area. Genomic prediction is well positioned to expedite genetic gain of plant architectural traits since they are typically highly heritable. Additionally, the adaptation of genomic prediction models to query predictive abilities of markers tagging certain genomic regions could shed light on the genetic architecture of these traits. Here, we leveraged transcriptional networks from a prior study that contextually described developmental progression during tassel and leaf organogenesis in maize (Zea mays) to inform genomic prediction models for architectural traits. Since these developmental processes underlie tassel branching and leaf angle, 2 important agronomic architectural traits, we tested whether genes prioritized from these networks quantitatively contribute to the genetic architecture of these traits. We used genomic prediction models to evaluate the ability of markers in the vicinity of prioritized network genes to predict breeding values of tassel branching and leaf angle traits for 2 diversity panels in maize and diversity panels from sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and rice (Oryza sativa). Predictive abilities of markers near these prioritized network genes were similar to those using whole-genome marker sets. Notably, markers near highly connected transcription factors from core network motifs in maize yielded predictive abilities that were significantly greater than expected by chance in not only maize but also closely related sorghum. We expect that these highly connected regulators are key drivers of architectural variation that are conserved across closely related cereal crop species.
Black pericarp sorghum has notable value due to the biosynthesis of 3-deoxyanthocyanidins (3-DOAs), a rare class of bioactive polyphenols valued as antioxidant food additives and as bioactive compounds with cytotoxicity to human cancer cells. A metabolic and transcriptomic study was conducted to ascertain the cellular events leading to the activation of 3-DOA biosynthesis in black sorghum pericarp. Prolonged exposure of pericarp during grain maturation to high-fluence ultraviolet (UV) light resulted in elevated levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the activation of 3-DOA biosynthesis in pericarp tissues. In conjunction with 3-DOA biosynthesis was the transcriptional activation of specific family members of early and late flavonoid biosynthesis pathway genes as well as the downstream activation of defense-related pathways. Promoter analysis of genes highly correlated with 3-DOA biosynthesis in black pericarp were enriched in MYB and HHO5/ARR-B motifs. Light microscopy studies of black pericarp tissues suggest that 3-DOAs are predominantly localized in the epicarp and are associated with the cell wall. A working model of UV-induced 3-DOA biosynthesis in black pericarp is proposed that shares features of plant immunity associated with pathogen attack or mechanical wounding. The present model depicts ROS accumulation, the transcriptional activation of receptor kinases and transcription factors (TFs) including NAC, WRKY, bHLH, AP2, and C2H2 Zinc finger domain. This study identified key biosynthetic and regulatory genes of 3-DOA accumulation in black pericarp and provided a deeper understanding of the gene networks and cellular events controlling this tissue-and genotype-specific trait.
Ethylene-insensitive 3/Ethylene-insensitive3-like proteins (EIN3/EIL) represent a group of transcription factors critical for the ethylene signaling transduction that manipulate downstream ethylene-responsive genes, thereby regulating plant growth, development, and stress responses. However, the identification, evolution, and divergence of the EIL family remain to be studied in
In agronomically important C4 grasses, efficient CO2 delivery to Rubisco is facilitated by NADP-malic enzyme (C4NADP-ME), which decarboxylates malate in bundle sheath cells. However, understanding the molecular regulation of the C4NADP-ME gene in sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) is hindered by its complex genetic background. Enzymatic activity assays demonstrated that decarboxylation in sugarcane Saccharum spontaneum predominantly relies on the NADP-ME pathway, similar to sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and maize (Zea mays). Comparative genomics analysis revealed the recruitment of 8 core C4 shuttle genes, including C4NADP-ME (SsC4NADP-ME2), in the C4 pathway of sugarcane. Contrasting to sorghum and maize, the expression of SsC4NADP-ME2 in sugarcane is regulated by different transcription factors (TFs). We propose a gene regulatory network for SsC4NADP-ME2, involving candidate TFs identified through gene coexpression analysis and yeast 1-hybrid experiment. Among these, ABA INSENSITIVE5 (ABI5) was validated as the predominant regulator of SsC4NADP-ME2 expression, binding to a G-box within its promoter region. Interestingly, the core element ACGT within the regulatory G-box was conserved in sugarcane, sorghum, maize, and rice (Oryza sativa), suggesting an ancient regulatory code utilized in C4 photosynthesis. This study offers insights into SsC4NADP-ME2 regulation, crucial for optimizing sugarcane as a bioenergy crop.
Growth-regulating factor (GRF) is a plant-specific family of transcription factors crucial for meristem development and plant growth. Sorghum (
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) is a multipurpose crop grown for food, fodder, and bioenergy production. Its cultivated varieties, along with their wild counterparts, contribute to the core genetic pool. Despite the availability of several re-sequenced sorghum genomes, a variable portion of sorghum genomes is not reported during reference genome assembly and annotation. The present analysis used 223 publicly available RNA-seq datasets from seven sweet sorghum cultivars to construct superTranscriptome. This approach yielded 45,864 Representative Transcript Assemblies (RTAs) that showcased intriguing Presence/Absence Variation (PAV) across 15 published sorghum genomes. We found 301 superTranscripts were exclusive to sweet sorghum, including 58 de novo genes encoded core and linker histones, zinc finger domains, glucosyl transferases, cellulose synthase, etc. The superTranscriptome added 2,802 new protein-coding genes to the Sweet Sorghum Reference Genome (SSRG), of which 559 code for different transcription factors (TFs). Our analysis revealed that MULE-like transposases were abundant in the sweet sorghum genome and could play a hidden role in the evolution of sweet sorghum. We observed large deletions in the D locus and terminal deletions in four other NAC encoding loci in the SSRG compared to its wild progenitor (353) suggesting non-functional NAC genes contributed to trait development in sweet sorghum. Moreover, superTranscript-based methods for Differential Exon Usage (DEU) and Differential Gene Expression (DGE) analyses were more accurate than those based on the SSRG. This study demonstrates that the superTranscriptome can enhance our understanding of fundamental sorghum mechanisms, improve genome annotations, and potentially even replace the reference genome.
Squamosa promoter-binding protein-like (SPL) is a plant-specific transcription factor that is widely involved in the regulation of plant growth and development, including flower and grain development, stress responses, and secondary metabolite synthesis. However, this gene family has not been comprehensively evaluated in barley, the most adaptable cereal crop with a high nutritional value. In this study, a total of 15 HvSPL genes were identified based on the Hordeum vulgare genome. These genes were named HvSPL1 to HvSPL15 based on the chromosomal distribution of the HvSPL genes and were divided into seven groups (I, II, III, V, VI, VII, and VIII) based on the phylogenetic tree analysis. Chromosomal localization revealed one pair of tandem duplicated genes and one pair of segmental duplicated genes. The HvSPL genes exhibited the highest collinearity with the monocotyledonous plant, Zea mays (27 pairs), followed by Oryza sativa (18 pairs), Sorghum bicolor (16 pairs), and Arabidopsis thaliana (3 pairs), and the fewest homologous genes with Solanum lycopersicum (1 pair). The distribution of the HvSPL genes in the evolutionary tree was relatively scattered, and HvSPL proteins tended to cluster with SPL proteins from Z. mays and O. sativa, indicating a close relationship between HvSPL and SPL proteins from monocotyledonous plants. Finally, the spatial and temporal expression patterns of the 14 HvSPL genes from different subfamilies were determined using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Based on the results, the HvSPL gene family exhibited tissue-specific expression and played a regulatory role in grain development and abiotic stress. HvSPL genes are highly expressed in various tissues during seed development. The expression levels of HvSPL genes under the six abiotic stress conditions indicated that many genes responded to stress, especially HvSPL8, which exhibited high expression under multiple stress conditions, thereby warranting further attention. In this study, 15 SPL gene family members were identified in the genome of Hordeum vulgare, and the phylogenetic relationships, gene structure, replication events, gene expression, and potential roles of these genes in millet development were studied. Our findings lay the foundation for exploring the HvSPL genes and performing molecular breeding of barley.
Pearl millet is a nutri-cereal that is mostly grown in harsh environments, making it an ideal crop to study heat tolerance mechanisms at the molecular level. Despite having a better-inbuilt tolerance to high temperatures than other crops, heat stress negatively affects the crop, posing a threat to productivity gain. Hence, to understand the heat-responsive genes, the leaf and root samples of two contrasting pearl millet inbreds, EGTB 1034 (heat tolerant) and EGTB 1091 (heat sensitive), were subjected to heat-treated conditions and generated genome-wide transcriptomes. We discovered 13,464 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), of which 6932 were down-regulated and 6532 up-regulated in leaf and root tissues. The pairwise analysis of the tissue-based transcriptome data of the two genotypes demonstrated distinctive genotype and tissue-specific expression of genes. The root exhibited a higher number of DEGs compared to the leaf, emphasizing different adaptive strategies of pearl millet. A large number of genes encoding ROS scavenging enzymes, WRKY, NAC, enzymes involved in nutrient uptake, protein kinases, photosynthetic enzymes, and heat shock proteins (HSPs) and several transcription factors (TFs) involved in cross-talking of temperature stress responsive mechanisms were activated in the stress conditions. Ribosomal proteins emerged as pivotal hub genes, highly interactive with key genes expressed and involved in heat stress response. The synthesis of secondary metabolites and metabolic pathways of pearl millet were significantly enriched under heat stress. Comparative synteny analysis of HSPs and TFs in the foxtail millet genome demonstrated greater collinearity with pearl millet compared to proso millet, rice, sorghum, and maize. In this study, 1906 unannotated DEGs were identified, providing insight into novel participants in the molecular response to heat stress. The identified genes hold promise for expediting varietal development for heat tolerance in pearl millet and similar crops, fostering resilience and enhancing grain yield in heat-prone environments.
Auxin Response Factors (ARFs) make up a plant-specific transcription factor family that mainly couples perception of the phytohormone, auxin, and gene expression programs and plays an important and multi-faceted role during plant growth and development. Lemongrass (
Drought stress is one of the most severe natural disasters in terms of its frequency, length, impact intensity, and associated losses, making it a significant threat to agricultural productivity. Sorghum (
Sugarcane aphid has emerged as a major pest of sorghum recently, and a few sorghum accessions were identified for resistance to this aphid so far. However, the molecular and genetic mechanisms underlying this resistance are still unclear. To understand these mechanisms, transcriptomics was conducted in resistant Tx2783 and susceptible BTx623 sorghum genotypes infested with sugarcane aphids. A principal component analysis revealed differences in the transcriptomic profiles of the two genotypes. The pathway analysis of the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) indicated the upregulation of a set of genes related to signal perception (nucleotide-binding, leucine-rich repeat proteins), signal transduction [mitogen-activated protein kinases signaling, salicylic acid (SA), and jasmonic acid (JA)], and plant defense (transcription factors, flavonoids, and terpenoids). The upregulation of the selected DEGs was verified by real-time quantitative PCR data analysis, performed on the resistant and susceptible genotypes. A phytohormone bioassay experiment showed a decrease in aphid population, plant mortality, and damage in the susceptible genotype when treated with JA and SA. Together, the results indicate that the set of genes, pathways, and defense compounds is involved in host plant resistance to aphids. These findings shed light on the specific role of each DEG, thus advancing our understanding of the genetic and molecular mechanisms of host plant resistance to aphids.
Plant growth and development are severely threatened by drought and salt stresses. Compared with structural genes, transcription factors (TFs) play more pivotal roles in plant growth and stress adaptation. However, the underlying mechanisms of sorghum adapting to drought and salt are insufficient, and systematic analysis of TFs in response to the above stresses is lacking. In this study, TFs were identified in sorghum and model plants (Arabidopsis thaliana and rice), and gene number and conserved domain were compared between sorghum and model plants. According to syntenic analysis, the expansion of sorghum and rice TFs may be due to whole-genome duplications. Between sorghum and model plants TFs, specific conserved domains were identified and they may be related to functional diversification of TFs. Forty-five key genes in sorghum, including four TFs, were likely responsible for drought adaption based on differently expression analysis. MiR5072 and its target gene (Sobic.001G449600) may refer to the determination of sorghum drought resistance according to small RNA and degradome analysis. Six genes were associated with drought adaptation of sorghum based on weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Similarly, the core genes in response to salt were also characterized using the above methods. Finally, 15 candidate genes, particularly two TFs (Sobic.004G300300, HD-ZIP; Sobic.003G244100, bZIP), involved in combined drought and salt resistance of sorghum were identified. In summary, the findings in this study help clarify the molecular mechanisms of sorghum responding to drought and salt. We identified candidate genes and provide important genetic resource for potential development of drought-tolerant and salt-tolerant sorghum plants.
Phospholipases constitute a diverse category of enzymes responsible for the breakdown of phospholipids. Their involvement in signal transduction with a pivotal role in plant development and stress responses is well documented. In the present investigation, a thorough genome-wide analysis revealed that the pearl millet genome contains at least 44 phospholipase genes distributed across its 7 chromosomes, with chromosome one harbouring the highest number of these genes. The synteny analysis suggested a close genetic relationship of pearl millet phospholipases with that of foxtail millet and sorghum. All identified genes were examined to unravel their gene structures, protein attributes, cis-regulatory elements, and expression patterns in two pearl millet genotypes contrasting for rancidity. All the phospholipases have a high alpha-helix content and distorted regions within the predicted secondary structures. Moreover, many of these enzymes possess binding sites for both metal and non-metal ligands. Additionally, the putative promoter regions associated with these genes exhibit multiple copies of cis-elements specifically responsive to biotic and abiotic stress factors and signaling molecules. The transcriptional profiling of 44 phospholipase genes in two genotypes contrasting for rancidity across six key tissues during pearl millet growth revealed a predominant expression in grains, followed by seed coat and endosperm. Specifically, the genes PgPLD-alpha1-1, PgPLD-alpha1-5, PgPLD-delta1-7a, PgPLA1-II-1a, and PgPLD-delta1-2a exhibited notable expression in grains of both the genotypes while showing negligible expression in the other five tissues. The sequence alignment of putative promoters revealed several variations including SNPs and InDels. These variations resulted in modifications to the corresponding cis-acting elements, forming distinct transcription factor binding sites suggesting the transcriptional-level regulation for these five genes in pearl millet. The current study utilized a genome-wide computational analysis to characterize the phospholipase gene family in pearl millet. A comprehensive expression profile of 44 phospholipases led to the identification of five grain-specific candidates. This underscores a potential role for at least these five genes in grain quality traits including the regulation of rancidity in pearl millet. Therefore, this study marks the first exploration highlighting the possible impact of phospholipases towards enhancing agronomic traits in pearl millet.
We identified a SbPLSH1gene conferring purple leaf sheath in sorghum (sorghumbicolor(L.) Moench)and developed a functional markerfor it. The purple leaf sheath of sorghum, a trait mostly related to anthocyanin deposition, is a visually distinguishable morphological marker widely used to evaluate the purity of crop hybrids. We aimed to dissect the genetic mechanism for leaf sheath color to mine the genes regulating this trait. In this study, two F
Saccharum spontaneum L. is a closely related species of sugarcane and has become an important genetic component of modern sugarcane cultivars. Stem development is one of the important factors for affecting the yield, while the molecular mechanism of stem development remains poorly understanding in S. spontaneum. Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) is a vital component of both primary and secondary metabolism, contributing significantly to plant growth, development and stress defense. However, the current knowledge about PAL genes in S. spontaneum is still limited. Thus, identification and characterization of the PAL genes by transcriptome analysis will provide a theoretical basis for further investigation of the function of PAL gene in sugarcane. In this study, 42 of PAL genes were identified, including 26 SsPAL genes from S. spontaneum, 8 ShPAL genes from sugarcane cultivar R570, and 8 SbPAL genes from sorghum. Phylogenetic analysis showed that SsPAL genes were divided into three groups, potentially influenced by long-term natural selection. Notably, 20 SsPAL genes were existed on chromosomes 4 and 5, indicating that they are highly conserved in S. spontaneum. This conservation is likely a result of the prevalence of whole-genome replications within this gene family. The upstream sequence of PAL genes were found to contain conserved cis-acting elements such as G-box and SP1, GT1-motif and CAT-box, which collectively regulate the growth and development of S. spontaneum. Furthermore, quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis showed that SsPAL genes of stem had a significantly upregulated than that of leaves, suggesting that they may promote the stem growth and development, particularly in the + 6 stem (The sixth cane stalk from the top to down) during the growth stage. The results of this study revealed the molecular characteristics of SsPAL genes and indicated that they may play a vital role in stem growth and development of S. spontaneum. Altogether, our findings will promote the understanding of the molecular mechanism of S. spontaneum stem development, and also contribute to the sugarcane genetic improving.
Expression profiling of NF-Y transcription factors during dehydration and salt stress in finger millet genotypes contrastingly differing in tolerance levels identifies candidate genes for further characterization and functional studies. The Nuclear Factor-Y (NF-Y) transcription factors are known for imparting abiotic stress tolerance in different plant species. However, there is no information on the role of this transcription factor family in naturally drought-tolerant crop finger millet (Eleusine coracana L.). Therefore, interpretation of expression profiles against drought and salinity stress may provide valuable insights into specific and/or overlapping expression patterns of Eleusine coracana Nuclear Factor-Y (EcNF-Y) genes. Given this, we identified 59 NF-Y (18 NF-YA, 23 NF-YB, and 18 NF-YC) encoding genes and designated them EcNF-Y genes. Expression profiling of these genes was performed in two finger millet genotypes, PES400 (dehydration and salt stress tolerant) and VR708 (dehydration and salt stress sensitive), subjected to PEG-induced dehydration and salt (NaCl) stresses at different time intervals (0, 6, and 12 h). The qRT-PCR expression analysis reveals that the six EcNF-Y genes namely EcNF-YA1, EcNF-YA5, EcNF-YA16, EcNF-YB6, EcNF-YB10, and EcNF-YC2 might be associated with tolerance to both dehydration and salinity stress in early stress condition (6 h), suggesting the involvement of these genes in multiple stress responses in tolerant genotype. In contrast, the transcript abundance of finger millet EcNF-YA5 genes was also observed in the sensitive genotype VR708 under late stress conditions (12 h) of both dehydration and salinity stress. Therefore, the EcNF-YA5 gene might be important for adaptation to salinity and dehydration stress in sensitive finger millet genotypes. Therefore, this gene could be considered as a susceptibility determinant, which can be edited to impart tolerance. The phylogenetic analyses revealed that finger millet NF-Y genes share strong evolutionary and functional relationship to NF-Ys governing response to abiotic stresses in rice, sorghum, maize, and wheat. This is the first report of expression profiling of EcNF-Ys genes identified from the finger millet genome and reveals potential candidate for enhancing dehydration and salt tolerance.
Although much less common than anthocyanins, 3-Deoxyanthocyanidins (3-DAs) and their glucosides can be found in cereals such as red sorghum. It is speculated that their bioavailability is higher than that of anthocyanins. Thus far, little is known regarding the therapeutic effects of 3-DAs and their O-β-D-glucosides on cancer, including prostate cancer. Thus, we evaluated their potential to decrease cell viability, to modulate the activity of transcription factors such as NFκB, CREB, and SOX, and to regulate the expression of the gene
Cyanogenic glucosides are specialized metabolites produced by over 3000 species of higher plants from more than 130 families. The deployment of cyanogenic glucosides is influenced by biotic and abiotic factors in addition to being developmentally regulated, consistent with their roles in plant defense and stress mitigation. Despite their ubiquity, very little is known regarding the molecular mechanisms that regulate their biosynthesis. The biosynthetic pathway of dhurrin, the cyanogenic glucoside found in the important cereal crop sorghum (
SbMYC2 functions as a key regulator under JA signaling in enhancing drought tolerance of sorghum through direct activating SbGR1. Drought stress is one of the major threats to crop yield. In response to drought stress, functions of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors (TFs) have been reported in Arabidopsis and rice, but little is known for sorghum. Here, we characterized the function of SbMYC2, a bHLH TF in sorghum, and found that SbMYC2 responded most significantly to PEG-simulated drought stress and JA treatments. Overexpression of SbMYC2 significantly enhanced drought tolerance in Arabidopsis, rice and sorghum. In addition, it reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and increased chlorophyll content in sorghum leaves. While silencing SbMYC2 by virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) resulted in compromised drought tolerance of sorghum seedlings. Moreover, SbMYC2 can directly activate the expression of GLUTATHIONE-DISULFIDE REDUCTASE gene SbGR1. SbGR1 silencing led to significantly weakened drought tolerance of sorghum, and higher ROS accumulation and lower chlorophyll content in sorghum leaves were detected. In addition, SbMYC2 can interact with SbJAZs, suppressors of JA signaling, and thus can mediate JA signaling to activate SbGR1, thereby regulating sorghum's tolerance to drought stress. Overall, our findings demonstrate that bHLH TF SbMYC2 plays an important role in sorghum's response to drought stress, thus providing one theoretical basis for genetic enhancement of sorghum and even rice.
Wheat streak mosaic virus (WSMV) and Triticum mosaic virus (TriMV) are components of the wheat streak mosaic virus disease complex in the Great Plains region of the U.S.A. and elsewhere. Co-infection of wheat with WSMV and TriMV causes synergistic interaction with more severe disease symptoms compared to single infections. Plants are equipped with multiple antiviral mechanisms, of which regulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) is a potentially effective constituent. In this investigation, we have analyzed the total and relative expression of miRNA transcriptome in two wheat cultivars, Arapahoe (susceptible) and Mace (temperature-sensitive-resistant), that were mock-inoculated or inoculated with WSMV, TriMV, or both at 18 °C and 27 °C. Our results showed that the most abundant miRNA family among all the treatments was miRNA166, followed by 159a and 168a, although the order of the latter two changed depending on the infections. When comparing infected and control groups, twenty miRNAs showed significant upregulation, while eight miRNAs were significantly downregulated. Among them, miRNAs 9670-3p, 397-5p, and 5384-3p exhibited the most significant upregulation, whereas miRNAs 319, 9773, and 9774 were the most downregulated. The comparison of infection versus the control group for the cultivar Mace showed temperature-dependent regulation of these miRNAs. The principal component analysis confirmed that less abundant miRNAs among differentially expressed miRNAs were strongly correlated with the inoculated symptomatic wheat cultivars. Notably, miRNAs 397-5p, 398, and 9670-3p were upregulated in response to WSMV and TriMV infections, an observation not yet reported in this context. The significant upregulation of these three miRNAs was further confirmed with RT-qPCR analysis; in general, the RT-qPCR results were in agreement with our computational analysis. Target prediction analysis showed that the miRNAs standing out in our analysis targeted genes involved in defense response and regulation of transcription. Investigation into the roles of these miRNAs and their corresponding targets holds promise for advancing our understanding of the mechanisms of virus infection and possible manipulation of these factors for developing durable virus resistance in crop plants.
The small YABBY plant-specific transcription factor has a prominent role in regulating plant growth progress and responding to abiotic stress. Here, a total of 16 PvYABBYs from switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) were identified and classified into four distinct subgroups. Proteins within the same subgroup exhibited similar conserved motifs and gene structures. Synteny analyses indicated that segmental duplication contributed to the expansion of the YABBY gene family in switchgrass and that complex duplication events occurred in rice, maize, soybean, and sorghum. Promoter regions of PvYABBY genes contained numerous cis-elements related to stress responsiveness and plant hormones. Expression profile analysis indicated higher expression levels of many PvYABBY genes during inflorescence development and seed maturation, with lower expression levels during root growth. Real-time quantitative PCR analysis demonstrated the sensitivity of multiple YABBY genes to PEG, NaCl, ABA, and GA treatments. The overexpression of PvYABBY14 in Arabidopsis resulted in increased root length after treatment with GA and ABA compared to wild-type plants. Taken together, our study provides the first genome-wide overview of the YABBY transcription factor family, laying the groundwork for understanding the molecular basis and regulatory mechanisms of PvYABBY14 in response to ABA and GA responses in switchgrass.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) is an important cereal crop grown worldwide because of its multipurpose uses such as food, forage, and bioenergy feedstock and its wide range of adaption even in marginal environments. Greenbug can cause severe damage to sorghum plants and yield loss. Plant NAC transcription factors (TFs) have been reported to have diverse functions in plant development and plant defense but has not been studied in sorghum yet. In this study, a comprehensive analysis of the sorghum NAC (SbNAC) gene family was conducted through genome-wide analysis. A total of 112 NAC genes has been identified in the sorghum genome. These SbNAC genes are phylogenetically clustered into 15 distinct subfamilies and unevenly distribute in clusters at the telomeric ends of each chromosome. Twelve pairs of SbNAC genes are possibly involved in the segmental duplication among nine chromosomes except chromosome 10. Structure analysis showed the diverse structures with a highly variable number of exons in the SbNAC genes. Furthermore, most of the SbNAC genes showed specific temporal and spatial expression patterns according to the results of RNA-seq analysis, suggesting their diverse functions during sorghum growth and development. We have also identified nine greenbug-inducible SbNAC genes by comparing the expression profiles between two sorghum genotypes (susceptible BTx623 and resistant PI607900) in response to greenbug infestation. Our systematic analysis of the NAC gene expression profiles provides both a preliminary survey into their roles in plant defense against insect pests and a useful reference for in-depth characterization of the SbNAC genes and the regulatory network that contributes genetic resistance to aphids.
A fundamental developmental switch for plants is transition from vegetative to floral growth, which integrates external and internal signals. INDETERMINATE1 (Id1) family proteins are zinc finger transcription factors that activate flowering in grasses regardless of photoperiod. Mutations in maize Mapping of two recessive late flowering mutants from a pedigreed sorghum EMS mutant library identified two distinct mutations in the These results demonstrate a conserved role for
Plant breeding and genetics play a major role in the adaptation of plants to meet human needs. The current requirement to make agriculture more sustainable can be partly met by a greater reliance on biological nitrogen fixation by symbiotic diazotrophic microorganisms that provide crop plants with ammonium. Select accessions of the cereal crop sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) form mucilage-producing aerial roots that harbor nitrogen-fixing bacteria. Breeding programs aimed at developing sorghum varieties that support diazotrophs will benefit from a detailed understanding of the genetic and environmental factors contributing to aerial root formation. A genome-wide association study of the sorghum minicore, a collection of 242 landraces, and 30 accessions from the sorghum association panel was conducted in Florida and Wisconsin and under 2 fertilizer treatments to identify loci associated with the number of nodes with aerial roots and aerial root diameter. Sequence variation in genes encoding transcription factors that control phytohormone signaling and root system architecture showed significant associations with these traits. In addition, the location had a significant effect on the phenotypes. Concurrently, we developed F2 populations from crosses between bioenergy sorghums and a landrace that produced extensive aerial roots to evaluate the mode of inheritance of the loci identified by the genome-wide association study. Furthermore, the mucilage collected from aerial roots contained polysaccharides rich in galactose, arabinose, and fucose, whose composition displayed minimal variation among 10 genotypes and 2 fertilizer treatments. These combined results support the development of sorghums with the ability to acquire nitrogen via biological nitrogen fixation.
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major factor limiting crop yields in acid soils. Sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) is a high-efficient energy crop widely grown in tropical and subtropical regions of the world, where acid soil is common and Al toxicity is widespread. Here, we characterized a transcription factor SbHY5 in sweet sorghum, which mediated light to promote plant Al stress adaptation. The expression of SbHY5 was induced by Al stress and increasing light intensity. The overexpression of SbHY5 improved Al tolerance in transgenic plants, which was associated with increased citrate secretion and reduced Al content in roots. Meanwhile, SbHY5 was found to localize to the nucleus and displayed transcriptional activity. SbHY5 directly activated the expression of SbMATE, indicating that a HY5-MATE-dependent citrate secretion pathway is involved in Al tolerance in plants. SbSTOP1 was reported as a key transcription factor, regulating several Al tolerance genes. Here, inspiringly, we found that SbHY5 directly promoted the transcription of SbSTOP1, implying the existence of HY5-STOP1-Al tolerance genes-mediated regulatory pathways. Besides, SbHY5 positively regulated its own transcription. Our findings revealed a novel regulatory network in which a light signaling factor, SbHY5, confers Al tolerance in plants by modulating the expression of Al stress response genes.
Salt stress adversely affects plant growth and development. It is necessary to understand the underlying salt response mechanism to improve salt tolerance in plants. MYB transcription factors can regulate plant responses to salt stress. However, only a few studies have explored the role of MYB TFs in Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench. So we decided to make a systematic analysis and research on the sorghum MYB family. A total of 210 MYB genes in sorghum were identified in this study. Furthermore, 210 MYB genes were distributed across ten chromosomes, named SbMYB1-SbMYB210. To study the phylogeny of the identified TFs, 210 MYB genes were divided into six subfamilies. We further demonstrated that SbMYB genes have evolved under strong purifying selection. SbMYBAS1 (SbMYB119) was chosen as the study object, which the expression decreased under salt stress conditions. Further study of the SbMYBAS1 showed that SbMYBAS1 is located in the nucleus. Under salt stress conditions, Arabidopsis plants overexpressed SbMYBAS1 showed significantly lower dry/fresh weight and chlorophyll content but significantly higher membrane permeability, MDA content, and Na
Bioenergy sorghum is a drought-tolerant high-biomass C4 grass targeted for production on annual cropland marginal for food crops due primarily to abiotic constraints. To better understand the overall contribution of stem wax to bioenergy sorghum's resilience, the current study characterized sorghum stem cuticular wax loads, composition, morphometrics, wax pathway gene expression and regulation using vegetative phase Wray, R07020, and TX08001 genotypes. Wax loads on sorghum stems (~103-215 µg/cm
The LIM domain-containing proteins are dominantly found in plants and play a significant role in various biological processes such as gene transcription as well as actin cytoskeletal organization. Nevertheless, genome-wide identification as well as functional analysis of the LIM gene family have not yet been reported in the economically important plant sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.). Therefore, we conducted an in silico identification and characterization of LIM genes in S. bicolor genome using integrated bioinformatics approaches. Based on phylogenetic tree analysis and conserved domain, we identified five LIM genes in S. bicolor (SbLIM) genome corresponding to Arabidopsis LIM (AtLIM) genes. The conserved domain, motif as well as gene structure analyses of the SbLIM gene family showed the similarity within the SbLIM and AtLIM members. The gene ontology (GO) enrichment study revealed that the candidate LIM genes are directly involved in cytoskeletal organization and various other important biological as well as molecular pathways. Some important families of regulating transcription factors such as ERF, MYB, WRKY, NAC, bZIP, C2H2, Dof, and G2-like were detected by analyzing their interaction network with identified SbLIM genes. The cis-acting regulatory elements related to predicted SbLIM genes were identified as responsive to light, hormones, stress, and other functions. The present study will provide valuable useful information about LIM genes in sorghum which would pave the way for the future study of functional pathways of candidate SbLIM genes as well as their regulatory factors in wet-lab experiments.
In flowering plants, C4 photosynthesis is superior to C3 type in carbon fixation efficiency and adaptation to extreme environmental conditions, but the mechanisms behind the assembly of C4 machinery remain elusive. This study attempts to dissect the evolutionary divergence from C3 to C4 photosynthesis in five photosynthetic model plants from the grass family, using a combined comparative transcriptomics and deep learning technology. By examining and comparing gene expression levels in bundle sheath and mesophyll cells of five model plants, we identified 16 differentially expressed signature genes showing cell-specific expression patterns in C3 and C4 plants. Among them, two showed distinctively opposite cell-specific expression patterns in C3 vs. C4 plants (named as FOGs). The in silico physicochemical analysis of the two FOGs illustrated that C3 homologous proteins of LHCA6 had low and stable pI values of ~6, while the pI values of LHCA6 homologs increased drastically in C4 plants
The GATA family of transcription factors is zinc finger DNA binding proteins involved in a variety of biological processes, including plant growth and development and response to biotic/abiotic stresses, and thus play an essential role in plant response to environmental changes. However, the
Molecular biology aims to understand cellular responses and regulatory dynamics in complex biological systems. However, these studies remain challenging in non-model species due to poor functional annotation of regulatory proteins. To overcome this limitation, we develop a multi-layer neural network that determines protein functionality directly from the protein sequence. We annotate kinases and phosphatases in Glycine max. We use the functional annotations from our neural network, Bayesian inference principles, and high resolution phosphoproteomics to infer phosphorylation signaling cascades in soybean exposed to cold, and identify Glyma.10G173000 (TOI5) and Glyma.19G007300 (TOT3) as key temperature regulators. Importantly, the signaling cascade inference does not rely upon known kinase motifs or interaction data, enabling de novo identification of kinase-substrate interactions. Conclusively, our neural network shows generalization and scalability, as such we extend our predictions to Oryza sativa, Zea mays, Sorghum bicolor, and Triticum aestivum. Taken together, we develop a signaling inference approach for non-model species leveraging our predicted kinases and phosphatases.
Drought, as a widespread environmental factor in nature, has become one of the most critical factors restricting the yield of forage grass. Sudangrass (
Because of its significance for plant male fertility and, hence, direct impact on crop yield, pollen exine development has inspired decades of scientific inquiry. However, the molecular mechanism underlying exine formation and thickness remains elusive. In this study, we identified that a previously unrecognized repressor, ZmMS1/ZmLBD30, controls proper pollen exine development in maize. Using an ms1 mutant with aberrantly thickened exine, we cloned a male-sterility gene, ZmMs1, which encodes a tapetum-specific lateral organ boundary domain transcription factor, ZmLBD30. We showed that ZmMs1/ZmLBD30 is initially turned on by a transcriptional activation cascade of ZmbHLH51-ZmMYB84-ZmMS7, and then it serves as a repressor to shut down this cascade via feedback repression to ensure timely tapetal degeneration and proper level of exine. This activation-feedback repression loop regulating male fertility is conserved in maize and sorghum, and similar regulatory mechanism may also exist in other flowering plants such as rice and Arabidopsis. Collectively, these findings reveal a novel regulatory mechanism of pollen exine development by which a long-sought master repressor of upstream activators prevents excessive exine formation.
Sweet sorghum is an important bioenergy grass and valuable forage with a strong adaptability to saline environments. However, little is known about the mechanisms of sweet sorghum coping with ion toxicity under salt stresses. Here, we first evaluated the salt tolerance of a sweet sorghum cultivar "Lvjuren" and determined its ion accumulation traits under NaCl treatments; then, we explored key genes involved in Na
The quality and yields of Sorghum bicolo r plants are seriously affected by saline-alkali conditions. NAC (NAM, ATAF, and CUC) transcription factors are plant specific and have various functions in plant development and response to various stresses. To investigate how GsNAC2 functions in sorghum responses to saline-alkali treatment, the characteristics of GsNAC2 were analysed by bioinformatics methods, and NaHCO3 :Na2 CO3 (5:1, 75mM, pH 9.63) saline-alkali stress solution was applied when sorghum plants were 2weeks old. The research results show that GsNAC2 belongs to the NAC gene family. GsNAC2 was significantly induced by saline-alkali treatment and strongly expressed in sorghum leaves. GsNAC2 -overexpressing sorghum plants had increased plant height, dry weight, moisture content, root activity, leaf length, chlorophyll content, stomatal conductance, relative root activity, relative chlorophyll content, relative stomatal conductance, and relative transpiration rate after saline-alkali treatment. Lower H2 O2 and O2 - levels, relative permeability of the plasma membrane, and malondialdehyde (MDA) content were found in GsNAC2 -overexpressing sorghum. In transcriptome analysis, clusters of orthologous groups (COG) analysis showed that a high proportion of differentially-expressed genes (DEGs) participated in defence mechanisms at each processing time, and 18 DEGs related to synthetic glutathione were obtained. Gene expression analysis revealed that key genes in glutathione biosynthesis pathways were upregulated. GR and GSH-Px activities were increased, and GSH accumulated more with the overexpression of GsNAC2 after saline-alkali treatment. Furthermore, these results suggest that GsNAC2 acts as a potentially important regulator in response to saline-alkali stress and may be used in molecular breeding to improve crop yields under adverse environmental conditions.
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a primary limiting factor for crop production in acidic soils. The WRKY transcription factors play important roles in regulating plant growth and stress resistance. In this study, we identified and characterized two WRKY transcription factors, SbWRKY22 and SbWRKY65, in sweet sorghum (
Plant nuclear factor (NF-Y) is a transcriptional activating factor composed of three subfamilies: NF-YA, NF-YB, and NF-YC. These transcriptional factors are reported to function as activators, suppressors, and regulators under different developmental and stress conditions in plants. However, there is a lack of systematic research on the
Leaf senescence is a complex biological process regulated at multiple levels, including chromatin remodeling, transcription, post-transcription, translation, and post-translational modifications. Transcription factors (TFs) are crucial regulators of leaf senescence, with NAC and WRKY families being the most studied. This review summarizes the progress made in understanding the regulatory roles of these families in leaf senescence in Arabidopsis and various crops such as wheat, maize, sorghum, and rice. Additionally, we review the regulatory functions of other families, such as ERF, bHLH, bZIP, and MYB. Unraveling the mechanisms of leaf senescence regulated by TFs has the potential to improve crop yield and quality through molecular breeding. While significant progress has been made in leaf senescence research in recent years, our understanding of the molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying this process is still incomplete. This review also discusses the challenges and opportunities in leaf senescence research, with suggestions for possible strategies to address them.
Sudan grass is a high-quality forage of sorghum. The degree of lignification of Sudan grass is the main factor affecting its digestibility in ruminants such as cattle and sheep. Almost all lignocellulose in Sudan grass is stored in the secondary cell wall, but the mechanism and synthesis of the secondary cell wall in Sudan grass is still unclear. In order to study the mechanism of secondary cell wall synthesis in Sudan grass, we used an in vitro induction system of Sudan grass secondary cell wall. Through transcriptome sequencing, it was found that the
Sorghum is a resilient and widely cultivated grain crop used for feed and food. However, it's grain is deficient in lysine, an essential amino acid. This is due to the primary seed storage proteins, the alpha-kafirins, lacking lysine. It has been observed that reductions in alpha-kafirin protein results in rebalancing of the seed proteome and a corresponding increase in non-kafirin proteins which leads to an increased lysine content. However, the mechanisms underlying proteome rebalancing are unclear. This study characterizes a previously developed gene edited sorghum line, with deletions at the alpha kafirin locus. A single consensus guide RNA leads to tandem deletion of multiple members of the gene family in addition to the small target site mutations in remaining genes. RNA-seq and ATAC-seq were utilized to identify changes in gene expression and chromatin accessibility in developing kernels in the absence of most alpha-kafirin expression. Several differentially accessible chromatin regions and differentially expressed genes were identified. Additionally, several genes upregulated in the edited sorghum line were common with their syntenic orthologues differentially expressed in maize prolamin mutants. ATAC-seq showed enrichment of the binding motif for ZmOPAQUE 11, perhaps indicating the transcription factor's involvement in the kernel response to reduced prolamins. Overall, this study provides a resource of genes and chromosomal regions which may be involved in sorghum's response to reduced seed storage proteins and the process of proteome rebalancing.
The cyanogenic glucoside, dhurrin, present in Sorghum bicolor is thought to have multiple functions, including in defence against herbivory. The hormone methyl jasmonate (MeJA) is also induced by herbivory and is key to instigating defence processes in plants. To investigate whether dhurrin is induced in response to herbivore attack and also to the associated presence of MeJA, sorghum plants were either wounded or exogenous MeJA was applied. We show that specific wounding (pin board and perforation) and the application of MeJA increases dhurrin concentration in leaves and sheath tissue 12 h after treatment. Quantitative PCR shows that the expression of two genes, SbCYP79A1 and SbUGT85B1, involved in the synthesis of dhurrin are significantly induced by exogenous MeJA and by wounding. Analysis of 2 kb of sequence upstream of the start codon of SbCYP79A1 identifies several cis-acting elements that have been linked to MeJA induction. A promoter deletion series, coupled to GFP, and transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana suggests that there are potentially three sequence motifs (~-925 to -976) involved in the binding of transcription factors that result in increased expression of SbCYP79A1 and the synthesis of dhurrin in response to MeJA.
Drought is a major limiting factor affecting grain production. Drought-tolerant crop varieties are required to ensure future grain production. Here, 5597 DEGs were identified using transcriptome data before and after drought stress in foxtail millet (
Salinity and drought are significant abiotic stresses causing a considerable loss of seed and biomass yield in most commercial crops. Some of the most critical players in the abscisic acid pathway are drought responsive element binding (DREB) proteins that are a part of AP2/ethylene response factor transcription factors that bind to promoters of some family genes needed to be expressed under abiotic stresses. In this study, salt- and drought-tolerant maize plants were produced from immature maize embryos bombarded by the sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) DREB2 gene that is linked to hygromycin resistance (hpt) genes. The putative transgenic calli were transferred to an N6 medium containing 1 mg/L benzylaminopurine and 50 mg/L hygromycin. Regeneration was completed after 4 weeks on selective media under a 16/8 h light/dark condition at 25°C. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and reverse transcription-PCR approved the existence of upstream promoter (rd29a), hpt gene, and the expression of the DREB2 in transgenes up to the third generation (T2). It was found that the K+/Na+ ratio and the amount of proline as a screening indicator were higher in transgenic plants compared to their wild types. This result is a promising model to enhance maize tolerance to abiotic stressors.
Mosaic viral diseases affect sugarcane productivity worldwide. Mining disease resistance-associated molecular markers or genes is a key component of disease resistance breeding programs. In the present study, 285 F
Drought stress severely threatens the yield of cereal crops. Therefore, understanding the molecular mechanism of drought stress response of plants is crucial for developing drought-tolerant cultivars. NAC transcription factors (TFs) play important roles in abiotic stress of plants, but the functions of NAC TFs in sorghum are largely unknown. Here, we characterized a sorghum NAC gene,
The onset of leaf de-greening and senescence is governed by a complex regulatory network including environmental cues and internal factors such as transcription factors (TFs) and phytohormones, in which ethylene (ET) is one key inducer. However, the detailed mechanism of ET signalling for senescence regulation is still largely unknown. Here, we found that the WRKY TF SbWRKY50 from Sorghum bicolor L., a direct target of the key component ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE 3 in ET signalling, functioned for leaf senescence repression. The clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR-associated protein9-edited SbWRKY50 mutant (SbWRKY5O-KO) of sorghum displayed precocious senescent phenotypes, while SbWRKY50 overexpression delayed age-dependent and dark-induced senescence in sorghum. SbWRKY50 negatively regulated chlorophyll degradation through direct binding to the promoters of several chlorophyll catabolic genes. In addition, SbWRKY50 recruited the Polycomb repressive complex 1 through direct interaction with SbBMI1A, to induce histone 2A mono-ubiquitination accumulation on the chlorophyll catabolic genes for epigenetic silencing and thus delayed leaf senescence. Especially, SbWRKY50 can suppress early steps of chlorophyll catabolic pathway via directly repressing SbNYC1 (NON-YELLOW COLORING 1). Other senescence-related hormones could also influence leaf senescence through repression of SbWRKY50. Hence, our work shows that SbWRKY50 is an essential regulator downstream of ET and SbWRKY50 also responds to other phytohormones for senescence regulation in sorghum.
SbMYBHv33 negatively regulated biomass accumulation and salt tolerance in sorghum and Arabidopsis by regulating reactive oxygen species accumulation and ion levels. Salt stress is one of the main types of environmental stress leading to a reduction in crop yield worldwide. Plants have also evolved a variety of corresponding regulatory pathways to resist environmental stress damage. This study aimed to identify a SbMYBHv33 transcription factor that downregulates in salt, drought, and abscisic acid (ABA) in the salt-tolerant inbred line sorghum M-81E. The findings revealed that overexpression of SbMYBHv33 in sorghum significantly reduced sorghum biomass accumulation at the seedling stage and also salinity tolerance. Meanwhile, a heterologous transformation of Arabidopsis with SbMYBHv33 produced a similar phenotype. The loss of function of the Arabidopsis homolog of SbMYBHv33 resulted in longer roots and increased salt tolerance. Under normal conditions, SbMYBHV33 overexpression promoted the expression of ABA pathway genes in sorghum and inhibited growth. Under salt stress conditions, the gene expression of SbMYBHV33 decreased in the overexpressed lines, and the promotion of these genes in the ABA pathway was attenuated. This might be an important reason for the difference in growth and stress resistance between SbMYBHv33-overexpressed sorghum and ectopic expression Arabidopsis. Hence, SbMYBHv33 is an important component of sorghum growth and development and the regulation of salt stress response, and it could negatively regulate salt tolerance and biomass accumulation in sorghum.
Nitrogen metabolism (NM) plays an essential role in response to abiotic stresses for plants. Enzyme activities have been extensively studied for nitrogen metabolism-associated pathways, but the knowledge of nitrogen metabolism-associated genes involved in stress response is still limited, especially for rice. In this study, we performed the genome-wide characterization of the genes putatively involved in nitrogen metabolism. A total of 1110 potential genes were obtained to be involved in nitrogen metabolism from eight species (
Salt stress is one of the major causes of reduced crop production, limiting agricultural development globally. Plants have evolved with complex systems to maintain the balance between growth and stress responses, where signaling pathways such as hormone signaling play key roles. Recent studies revealed that hormones are modulated by microRNAs (miRNAs). Previously, two sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) inbred lines with different salt tolerance were identified: the salt-tolerant M-81E and the salt-sensitive Roma. The levels of endogenous hormones in M-81E and Roma varied differently under salt stress, showing a different balance between growth and stress responses. miRNA and degradome sequencing showed that the expression of many upstream transcription factors regulating signal transduction and hormone-responsive genes was directly induced by differentially expressed miRNAs, whose levels were very different between the two sweet sorghum lines. Furthermore, the effects of representative miRNAs on salt tolerance in sorghum were verified through a transformation system mediated by Agrobacterium rhizogenes. Also, miR-6225-5p reduced the level of Ca
Grass inflorescences support floral structures that each bear a single grain, where variation in branch architecture directly impacts yield. The maize (Zea mays) RAMOSA1 (ZmRA1) transcription factor acts as a key regulator of inflorescence development by imposing branch meristem determinacy. Here, we show RA1 transcripts accumulate in boundary domains adjacent to spikelet meristems in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor, Sb) and green millet (Setaria viridis, Sv) inflorescences similar as in the developing maize tassel and ear. To evaluate the functional conservation of syntenic RA1 orthologs and promoter cis sequences in maize, sorghum, and setaria, we utilized interspecies gene transfer and assayed genetic complementation in a common inbred background by quantifying recovery of normal branching in highly ramified ra1-R mutants. A ZmRA1 transgene that includes endogenous upstream and downstream flanking sequences recovered normal tassel and ear branching in ra1-R. Interspecies expression of two transgene variants of the SbRA1 locus, modeled as the entire endogenous tandem duplication or just the nonframeshifted downstream copy, complemented ra1-R branching defects and induced unusual fasciation and branch patterns. The SvRA1 locus lacks conserved, upstream noncoding cis sequences found in maize and sorghum; interspecies expression of a SvRA1 transgene did not or only partially recovered normal inflorescence forms. Driving expression of the SvRA1 coding region by the ZmRA1 upstream region, however, recovered normal inflorescence morphology in ra1-R. These data leveraging interspecies gene transfer suggest that cis-encoded temporal regulation of RA1 expression is a key factor in modulating branch meristem determinacy that ultimately impacts grass inflorescence architecture.
Stem structural failure, or lodging, affects many crops including sorghum, and can cause large yield losses. Lodging is typically caused by mechanical forces associated with severe weather like high winds, but exposure to sub-catastrophic forces may strengthen stems and improve lodging resistance. The responses of sorghum internodes at different developmental stages were examined at 2 and 26 h after initiating moderate mechanical stimulation with an automated apparatus. Transcriptome profiling revealed that mechanical stimulation altered the expression of over 900 genes, including transcription factors, cell wall-related and hormone signaling-related genes. IAA, GA
Water deficit is a major constraint for crops of economic importance in almost all agricultural regions. However, plants have an active defense system to adapt to these adverse conditions, acting in the reprogramming of gene expression responsible for encoding microRNAs (miRNAs). These miRNAs promote the regulation to the target gene expression by the post-transcriptional (PTGS) and transcriptional gene silencing (TGS), modulating several pathways including defense response to water deficit. The broader knowledge of the miRNA expression profile and its regulatory networks in response to water deficit can provide evidence for the development of new biotechnological tools for genetic improvement of several important crops. In this study, we used The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-022-01226-z.
Auxin is a crucial phytohormone that has various effects on the regulators of plant growth and development. Auxin signal transduction is mainly controlled by two gene families: auxin response factor (ARF) and auxin/indole-3-acetic acid (Aux/IAA). ARFs are plant-specific transcription factors that bind directly to auxin response elements in the promoters of auxin-responsive genes. ARF proteins contain three conserved regions: a conserved N-terminal B3 DNA-binding domain, a variable intermediate middle region domain that functions in activation or repression, and a C-terminal domain including the Phox and Bem1p region for dimerization, similar to the III and IV elements of Aux/IAA, which facilitate protein-protein interaction through homodimerization of ARF proteins or heterodimerization of ARF and Aux/IAA proteins. In the two decades following the identification of the first ARF, 23 ARF members have been identified and characterized in Arabidopsis. Using whole-genome sequencing, 22, 25, 23, 25, and 36 ARF genes have been identified in tomato, rice, wheat, sorghum, and maize, respectively, in addition to which the related biofunctions of some ARFs have been reported. ARFs play crucial roles in regulating the growth and development of roots, leaves, flowers, fruits, seeds, responses to biotic and abiotic stresses, and phytohormone signal crosstalk. In this review, we summarize the research progress on the structures and functions of ARFs in Arabidopsis, tomato, and cereal crops, to provide clues for future basic research on phytohormone signaling and the molecular design breeding of crops.
OsiCRY2 is involved in light-regulated plant development and plays a role in regulating photomorphogenesis, plant height, flowering and most strikingly partial photomorphogenesis in dark. Cryptochrome 2 (CRY2), the blue/UV-A light photoreceptor in plants, has been reported to regulate photoperiod-dependent flowering and seedling photomorphogenesis (under low-intensity light). Among monocots, CRY2 has been reported from japonica rice, wheat, sorghum and barley. The two sub-species of rice, indica and japonica, exhibit a high degree of genetic variation and morphological and physiological differences. This article describes the characterization of CRY2 of indica rice (OsiCRY2). While the transcript levels of OsiCRY2 did not change significantly under blue light, its protein levels were found to decline with increased time duration under blue light. For phenotypic characterization, OsiCRY2 over-expression (OX) transgenics were generated in Oryza sativa Pusa Sugandh 2 (PS2) cultivar, a highly scented Basmati cultivar. The OsiCRY2
Genome editing system based on the CRISPR/Cas (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats) technology is a milestone for biology. However, public concerns regarding genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and recalcitrance in the crop of choice for regeneration have limited its application. Cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs) are derived from protein transduction domains (PTDs) that can take on various cargoes across the plant wall, and membrane of target cells. Selected CPPs show mild cytotoxicity and are a suitable delivery tool for DNA-free genome editing. Moreover, CPPs may also be applied for the transient delivery of morphogenic transcription factors, also known as developmental regulators (DRs), to overcome the bottleneck of the crop of choice regeneration. In this review, we introduce a brief history of cell-penetrating peptides and discuss the practice of CPP-mediated DNA-free transfection and the prospects of this potential delivery tool for improving crop genome editing.
Understanding the genetic control and inheritance of grain quality traits is instrumental in facilitating end-use quality improvement. This study was conducted to identify and map quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling protein, starch, and amylose content in grain sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] grown under variable environmental conditions. A recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from a cross between RTx430 and SC35 was evaluated in six environments across Hays and Manhattan, KS. Significant variation was observed in genotype, environment, and genotype × environment interaction for all three quality traits. Unlike the RILs, the two parental lines did not show significant differences for these traits. However, significant transgressive segregation was observed for all traits resulting in phenotypic performance extending beyond the two parents. A total of seven protein, 10 starch, and 10 amylose content QTL were identified. Chromosomal regions and phenotypic variation (PVE) of QTL were variable across growing conditions. Quantitative trait loci hotspots for all three traits were detected on chromosomes 1 (115.2-119.2 cM) and 2 (118.2-127.4 cM). Candidate gene analysis indicated that these QTL hotspots were conditioned by several transcription factors, such as Cytochrome P450 and basic helix-loop-helix DNA binding protein, which regulate starch and protein accumulation in the grain. The identified genomic regions and underlying candidate genes provide a starting point for further validation and marker-assisted gene pyramiding to improve sorghum grain quality.
SbWRKY55 functions as a key component of the ABA-mediated signaling pathway; transgenic sorghum regulates plant responses to saline environments and will help save arable land and ensure food security. Salt tolerance in plants is triggered by various environmental stress factors and endogenous hormonal signals. Numerous studies have shown that WRKY transcription factors are involved in regulating plant salt tolerance. However, the underlying mechanism for WRKY transcription factors regulated salt stress response and signal transduction pathways remains largely unknown. In this study, the SbWRKY55 transcription factor was found to be the key component for reduced levels of salt and abscisic acid in SbWRKY55 overexpression significantly reduced salt tolerance in sorghum and Arabidopsis. Mutation of the homologous gene AtWRKY55 in A. thaliana significantly enhanced salt tolerance, and SbWRKY55 supplementation in the mutants restored salt tolerance. In the transgenic sorghum with SbWRKY55 overexpression, the expression levels of genes involved in the abscisic acid (ABA) pathway were altered, and the endogenous ABA content decreased. Yeast one-hybrid assays and dual-luciferase reporter assay showed that SbWRKY55 binds directly to the promoter of SbBGLU22 and inhibits its expression level. In addition, both in vivo and in vitro biochemical analyses showed that SbWRKY55 interacts with the FYVE zinc finger protein SbFYVE1, blocking the ABA signaling pathway. This could be an important feedback regulatory pathway to balance the SbWRKY55-mediated salt stress response. In summary, the results of this study provide convincing evidence that SbWRKY55 functions as a key component in the ABA-mediated signaling pathway, highlighting the dual role of SbWRKY55 in ABA signaling. This study also showed that SbWRKY55 could negatively regulate salt tolerance in sorghum.
Bio-based fuels have become popular being efficient, cost-effective, and eco-friendly alternatives to fossil fuels. Among plant sources exploited as feedstocks, C
The NGATHA (NGA) transcription factor (TF) belongs to the ABI3/VP1 (RAV) transcriptional subfamily, a subgroup of the B3 superfamily, which is relatively well-studied in Arabidopsis. However, limited data are available on the contributions of NGA TF in other plant species. In this study, 207 NGA gene family members were identified from a genome-wide search against
Since 2013, the sorghum aphid (SA), Melanaphis sorghi (Theobald), has been a serious pest that hampers all types of sorghum production in the U.S. Known sorghum aphid resistance in sorghum is limited to a few genetic regions on SBI-06. In this study, a subset of the Sorghum Association Panel (SAP) was used along with some additional lines to identify genomic regions that confer sorghum aphid resistance. SAP lines were grown in the field and visually evaluated for SA resistance during the growing seasons of 2019 and 2020 in Tifton, GA. In 2020, the SAP accessions were also evaluated for SA resistance in the field using drone-based high throughput phenotyping (HTP). Flowering time was recorded in the field to confirm that our methods were sufficient for identifying known quantitative trait loci (QTL). This study combined phenotypic data from field-based visual ratings and reflectance data to identify genome-wide associated (GWAS) marker-trait associations (MTA) using genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) data. Several MTAs were identified for SA-related traits across the genome, with a few common markers that were consistently identified on SBI-08 and SBI-10 for aphid count and plant damage, as well as loci for reflectance-based traits on SBI-02, SBI-03, and SBI-05. Candidate genes encoding leucine-rich repeats (LRR), Avr proteins, lipoxygenases (LOXs), calmodulins (CAM) dependent protein kinase, WRKY transcription factors, flavonoid biosynthesis genes, and 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid reductase were identified near SNPs that had significant associations with different SA traits. In this study, flowering time-related genes were also identified as a positive control for the methods. The total phenotypic variation explained by significant SNPs across SA-scored traits, reflectance data, and flowering time ranged from 6 to 61%, while the heritability value ranged from 4 to 69%. This study identified three new sources of resistant lines to sorghum aphid. These results supported the existing literature, and also revealed several new loci. Markers identified in this study will support marker-assisted breeding for sorghum aphid resistance.
Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that are located in the promoter regions of genes and affect the binding of transcription factors (TFs) are called regulatory SNPs (rSNPs). Their identification can be highly valuable for the interpretation of genome-wide association studies (GWAS), since rSNPs can reveal the biologically causative variant and decipher the regulatory mechanisms behind a phenotype. In our previous work, we presented agReg-SNPdb, a database of regulatory SNPs for agriculturally important animal species. To complement this previous work, in this study we present the extension agReg-SNPdb-Plants storing rSNPs and their predicted effects on TF-binding for 13 agriculturally important plant species and subspecies (
Efficient acquisition and use of available phosphorus from the soil is crucial for plant growth, development, and yield. With an ever-increasing acreage of croplands with suboptimal available soil phosphorus, genetic improvement of sorghum germplasm for enhanced phosphorus acquisition from soil is crucial to increasing agricultural output and reducing inputs, while confronted with a growing world population and uncertain climate.
Salinity stress is one of the most important abiotic stresses that causes great losses in crop production worldwide. Identifying the molecular mechanisms of salt resistance in sorghum will help develop salt-tolerant crops with high yields. Sorghum (
Drought is one of the main abiotic stresses influencing crop production all over the world. Membranes are sensitive to drought stress and easy to be degraded and modified. Lipidome and transcriptome analyses were applied to analyze the responses of membrane lipids to drought stress in two sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) cultivars, drought-sensitive cv. Hongyingzi and drought-tolerant cv. Kangsi. In total, 156 lipid compounds were identified and the contents of the predominant ones changed significantly under drought stress. Drought significantly decreased the unsaturation indices (UI) of digalactosyl-diacylglycerol (DGDG), monogalactosyl-diacylglycerol (MGDG), phosphatidylglycerol (PG) and phosphatidylcholine (PC) in both cultivars, except for insignificant changes of UI for DGDG in cv. Kangsi. Transcriptome sequencing analysis identified genes related to membrane lipid remodeling such as phospholipase D α1 (PLDα1), phospholipase D δ (PLDδ), and phospholipase A 2 (PLA2). By integrating transcriptome data and lipidome data, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) identified hub genes, transcription factors and the genes involved in lipid metabolism. Then, the protein and protein interaction (PPI) was analyzed using STRING and the possible candidate genes regulating membrane lipids under drought stress were obtained, including CCT2, CER1, DGK1, DGK5, EMB3174, KCS4, LCB2, PAH1, PLDP1, PKP-β1, and KCS11. The results from this study have the potential to accelerate the process to breed drought-tolerant sorghum lines.
Sweet sorghum is a C4 crop that can be grown for silage forage, fiber, syrup and fuel production. It is generally considered a salt-tolerant plant. However, the salt tolerance ability varies among genotypes, and the mechanism is not well known. To further uncover the salt tolerance mechanism, we performed comparative transcriptome analysis with RNA samples in two sweet sorghum genotypes showing different salt tolerance abilities (salt-tolerant line RIO and salt-sensitive line SN005) upon salt treatment. These response processes mainly focused on secondary metabolism, hormone signaling and stress response. The expression pattern cluster analysis showed that RIO-specific response genes were significantly enriched in the categories related to secondary metabolic pathways. GO enrichment analysis indicated that RIO responded earlier than SN005 in the 2 h after treatment. In addition, we identified more transcription factors (TFs) in RIO than SN005 that were specifically expressed differently in the first 2 h of salt treatment, and the pattern of TF change was obviously different. These results indicate that an early response in secondary metabolism might be essential for salt tolerance in sweet sorghum. In conclusion, we found that an early response, especially in secondary metabolism and hormone signaling, might be essential for salt tolerance in sweet sorghum.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade plays a crucial role in regulating many important biological processes in plants. Here, we identified and characterized eight MAPKK and 49 MAPKKK genes in sorghum and analyzed their differential expression under drought treatment; we also characterized 16 sorghum MAPK genes. RNA-seq analysis revealed that 10 MAPK cascade genes were involved in drought stress response at the transcriptome level in sorghum. Overexpression of SbMPK14 in Arabidopsis and maize resulted in hypersensitivity to drought by promoting water loss, indicating that SbMPK14 functions as a negative regulator of the drought response. Subsequent transcriptome analysis and qRT-PCR verification of maize SbMPK14 overexpression lines revealed that SbMPK14 likely increases plant drought sensitivity by suppressing the activity of specific ERF and WRKY transcription factors. This comprehensive study provides valuable insight into the mechanistic basis of MAPK cascade gene function and their responses to drought in sorghum.
As one of the largest transcription factor families in plants, the APETALA2/Ethylene-Responsive Factor (AP2/ERF) superfamily is involved in various biological processes and plays significant roles in plant growth, development and responses to various stresses. Although identification and characterization of AP2/ERF superfamily genes have been accomplished in many plant species, very little is known regarding the structure and function of AP2/ERF genes in maize. In this study, a total of 214 genes encoding ZmAP2/ERF proteins with complete AP2/ERF domain were eventually identified according to the AGPv4 version of the maize B73 genome. Based on the number of AP2/ERF domain and similarities of amino acid sequences among AP2/ERF proteins from Arabidopsis, rice and maize, all 214 putative ZmAP2/ERF proteins were categorized into three distinct families, including the AP2 family (44), the ERF family (166) and the RAV family (4), respectively. Among them, the ERF family was further subdivided into two diverse subfamilies, including the DREB and ERF subfamilies with 61 and 105 members, respectively. Further, based on phylogenetic analysis, the members of DREB and ERF subfamilies were subdivided into four (Group I-IV) and eight (Group V-XII) groups, respectively. The characteristics of exon-intron structure of these putative ZmAP2/ERF genes and conserved protein motifs of their encoded ZmAP2/ERF proteins were also presented respectively, which was in accordance with the results of group classification. Promoter analysis suggested that ZmAP2/ERF genes shared many stress- and hormone-related cis-regulatory elements. Gene duplication and synteny analysis revealed that tandem or segmental duplication and purifying selection might play significant roles in evolution and functional differentiation of AP2/ERF superfamily genes among three various gramineous species (maize, rice and sorghum). Using RNA-seq data, transcriptome analysis indicated that the majority of ZmAP2/ERF genes displayed differential expression patterns at different developmental stages of maize. In addition, the following analyses of co-expression network among ZmAP2/ERF genes and protein protein interaction between ZmAP2 and ZmERF proteins further enabled us to understand the regulatory relationship among members of the AP2/ERF superfamily in maize. Furthermore, by quantitative real-time PCR analysis, twenty-seven selected ZmAP2/ERF genes were further confirmed to respond to three different abiotic stresses, suggesting their potential roles in various abiotic stress responses. Collectively, these results revealed that these ZmAP2/ERF genes play essential roles in abiotic stress tolerance. Taken together, the present study will serve to present an important theoretical basis for further exploring the function and regulatory mechanism of ZmAP2/ERF genes in the growth, development, and adaptation to abiotic stresses in maize.
Sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] is a tropical grass that can be used as a bioenergy crop but commonly suffers from stem structural failure (lodging) when exposed to mechanical stimuli, such as rain and wind. Mechanical stimulation can trigger adaptive growth in plant stems (thigmomorphogenesis) by activating regulatory networks of hormones, proteins, transcription factors, and targeted genes, which ultimately alters their physiology, morphology, and biomechanical properties. The goals of this study are 1) to investigate differences in the morpho-anatomical-biomechanical properties of internodes from control and mechanically-stimulated plants and 2) to examine whether the changes also depend on the plant developmental stages at the time of stimulation. The sweet sorghum cultivar Della was grown in a greenhouse under two growth conditions: with and without mechanical stimulation. The mechanical stimulation involved periodic bending of the stems in one direction during a seven-week growth period. At maturity, the anatomical traits of the stimulated and non-stimulated stems were characterized, including internode lengths and diameters, and biomechanical properties, including elastic (instantaneous) modulus, flexural stiffness, strength, and time-dependent compliance under bending. The morpho-anatomical and biomechanical characteristics of two internodes of the stems that were at different stages of development at the time of mechanical stimulation were examined. Younger internodes were more responsive and experienced more pronounced changes in length due to the stimulation when compared to the older internodes. Statistical analyses showed differences between the stimulated and non-stimulated stems in terms of both their anatomical and biomechanical properties. Mechanical stimulation produced shorter internodes with slightly larger diameters, as well as softer (more compliant) and stronger stems.
Sorghum damping-off, caused by Fusarium solani (Mart.) Sacc., is a serious disease which causes economic loss in sorghum production. In this study, antagonistic activity of lavender essential oil (EO) at 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.25, 1.5, and 1.6% against F. solani was studied in vitro. Their effects on regulation of three SbWRKY transcription factors, the response factor JERF3 and eight defense-related genes, which mediate different signaling pathways, in sorghum were investigated. Effects of application under greenhouse conditions were also evaluated. The results showed that lavender EO possesses potent antifungal activity against F. solani. A complete inhibition in the fungal growth was recorded for lavender EO at 1.6%. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometric analysis revealed that EO antifungal activity is most likely attributed to linalyl anthranilate, α-terpineol, eucalyptol, α-Pinene, and limonene. Observations using transmission electron microscopy revealed many abnormalities in the ultrastructures of the fungal mycelium as a response to treating with lavender EO, indicating that multi-mechanisms contributed to their antagonistic behavior. Results obtained from Real-time PCR investigations demonstrated that the genes studied were overexpressed, to varying extents in response to lavender EO. However, SbWRKY1 was the highest differentially expressed gene followed by JERF3, which suggest they play primary role(s) in synchronously organizing the transcription-regulatory-networks enhancing the plant resistance. Under greenhouse conditions, treating of sorghum grains with lavender EO at 1.5% prior to infection significantly reduced disease severity. Moreover, the growth parameters evaluated, the activities of antioxidant enzymes, and total phenolic and flavonoid contents were all enhanced. In contrast, lipid peroxidation was highly reduced. Results obtained from this study support the possibility of using lavender EO for control of sorghum damping-off. However, field evaluation is highly needed prior to any usage recommendation.
A WRKY transcription factor identified through forward genetics is associated with sorghum resistance to the sugarcane aphid and through heterologous expression reduces aphid populations in multiple plant species. Crop plant resistance to insect pests is based on genetically encoded traits which often display variability across diverse germplasm. In a comparatively recent event, a predominant sugarcane aphid (SCA: Melanaphis sacchari) biotype has become a significant agronomic pest of grain sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). To uncover candidate genes underlying SCA resistance, we used a forward genetics approach combining the genetic diversity present in the Sorghum Association Panel (SAP) and the Bioenergy Association Panel (BAP) for a genome-wide association study, employing an established SCA damage rating. One major association was found on Chromosome 9 within the WRKY transcription factor 86 (SbWRKY86). Transcripts encoding SbWRKY86 were previously identified as upregulated in SCA-resistant germplasm and the syntenic ortholog in maize accumulates following Rhopalosiphum maidis infestation. Analyses of SbWRKY86 transcripts displayed patterns of increased SCA-elicited accumulation in additional SCA-resistant sorghum lines. Heterologous expression of SbWRKY86 in both tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) and Arabidopsis resulted in reduced population growth of green peach aphid (Myzus persicae). Comparative RNA-Seq analyses of Arabidopsis lines expressing 35S:SbWRKY86-YFP identified changes in expression for a small network of genes associated with carbon-nitrogen metabolism and callose deposition, both contributing factors to defense against aphids. As a test of altered plant responses, 35S:SbWRKY86-YFP Arabidopsis lines were activated using the flagellin epitope elicitor, flg22, and displayed significant increases in callose deposition. Our findings indicate that both heterologous and increased native expression of the transcription factor SbWRKY86 contributes to reduced aphid levels in diverse plant models.
Transcription factors are regulatory proteins known to modulate gene expression. These are the critical component of signaling pathways and help in mitigating various developmental and stress responses. Among them, bZIP, BBR, and BZR transcription factor families are well known to play a crucial role in regulating growth, development, and defense responses. However, limited data is available on these transcription factors in Triticum aestivum. In this study, bZIP, BBR, and BZR sequences from Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa, Oryza barthii, Oryza brachyantha, T. aestivum, Triticum urartu, Sorghum bicolor, Zea mays were retrieved, and dendrograms were constructed to analyze the evolutionary relatedness among them. The sequences clustered into one group indicated a degree of evolutionary correlation highlighting the common lineage of cereal grains. This analysis also exhibited that these genes were highly conserved among studied monocots emphasizing their common ancestry. Furthermore, these transcription factor genes were evaluated for envisaging conserved motifs, gene structure, and subcellular localization in T. aestivum. This comprehensive computational analysis has provided an insight into transcription factor evolution that can also be useful in developing approaches for future functional characterization of these genes in T. aestivum. Furthermore, the data generated can be beneficial in future for genetic manipulation of economically important plants.
SQUAMOSA promoter binding proteins (SBPs) genes encode a family of plant-specific transcription factors involved in various growth and development processes, including flower and fruit development, leaf initiation, phase transition, and embryonic development. The SBP gene family has been identified and characterized in many species, but no systematic analysis of the SBP gene family has been carried out in sugarcane. In the present study, a total of 50 sequences for 30 SBP genes were identified by the genome-wide analysis and designated SsSBP1 to SsSBP30 based on their chromosomal distribution. According to the phylogenetic tree, gene structure and motif features, the SsSBP genes were classified into eight groups (I to VIII). By synteny analysis, 27 homologous gene pairs existed in SsSBP genes, and 37 orthologous gene pairs between sugarcane and sorghum were found. Expression analysis in different tissues, including vegetative and reproductive organs, showed differential expression patterns of SsSBP genes, indicating their functional diversity in the various developmental processes. Additionally, 22 SsSBP genes were predicted as the potential targets of miR156. The differential expression pattern of miR156 exhibited a negative correlation of transcription levels between miR156 and the SsSBP gene in different tissues. The sugarcane genome possesses 30 SsSBP genes, and they shared similar gene structures and motif features in their subfamily. Based on the transcriptional and qRT-PCR analysis, most SsSBP genes were found to regulate the leaf initial and female reproductive development. The present study comprehensively and systematically analyzed SBP genes in sugarcane and provided a foundation for further studies on the functional characteristics of SsSBP genes during different development processes.
Salinity stress has become a significant concern to global food security. Revealing the mechanisms that enable plants to survive under salinity has immense significance. Sorghum has increasingly attracted researchers interested in understanding the survival and adaptation strategies to high salinity. However, systematic analysis of the DEGs (differentially expressed genes) and their relative expression has not been reported in sorghum under salt stress. The de novo transcriptomic analysis of sorghum under different salinity levels from 60 to 120 mM NaCl was generated using Illumina HiSeq. Approximately 323.49 million high-quality reads, with an average contig length of 1145 bp, were assembled de novo. On average, 62% of unigenes were functionally annotated to known proteins. These DEGs were mainly involved in several important metabolic processes, such as carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, cell wall biogenesis, photosynthesis, and hormone signaling. SSG 59-3 alleviated the adverse effects of salinity by suppressing oxidative stress (H
Transcription factors, including trihelix transcription factors, play vital roles in various growth and developmental processes and in abiotic stress responses in plants. The trihelix gene has been systematically studied in some dicots and monocots, including Arabidopsis, tomato, chrysanthemum, soybean, wheat, corn, rice, and buckwheat. However, there are no related studies on sorghum. In this study, a total of 40 sorghum trihelix (SbTH) genes were identified based on the sorghum genome, among which 34 were located in the nucleus, 5 in the chloroplast, 1 (SbTH38) in the cytoplasm, and 1 (SbTH23) in the extracellular membrane. Phylogenetic analysis of the SbTH genes and Arabidopsis and rice trihelix genes indicated that the genes were clustered into seven subfamilies: SIP1, GTγ, GT1, GT2, SH4, GTSb8, and orphan genes. The SbTH genes were located in nine chromosomes and none on chromosome 10. One pair of tandem duplication gene and seven pairs of segmental duplication genes were identified in the SbTH gene family. By qPCR, the expression of 14 SbTH members in different plant tissues and in plants exposed to six abiotic stresses at the seedling stage were quantified. Except for the leaves in which the genes were upregulated after only 2 h exposure to high temperature, the 12 SbTH genes were significantly upregulated in the stems of sorghum seedlings after 24 h under the other abiotic stress conditions. Among the selected genes, SbTH10/37/39 were significantly upregulated, whereas SbTH32 was significantly downregulated under different stress conditions. In this study, we identified 40 trihelix genes in sorghum and found that gene duplication was the main force driving trihelix gene evolution in sorghum. The findings of our study serve as a basis for further investigation of the functions of SbTH genes and providing candidate genes for stress-resistant sorghum breeding programmes and increasing sorghum yield.
bHLH family proteins play an important role in plant stress response. However, the molecular mechanism regulating the salt response of bHLH is largely unknown. This study aimed to investigate the function and regulating mechanism of the sweet sorghum SbbHLH85 during salt stress. The results showed that SbbHLH85 was different from its homologs in other species. Also, it was a new atypical bHLH transcription factor and a key gene for root development in sweet sorghum. The overexpression of SbbHLH85 resulted in significantly increased number and length of root hairs via ABA and auxin signaling pathways, increasing the absorption of Na
Whole genome duplication (WGD) in plants is typically followed by genomic downsizing, where large portions of the new genome are lost. Whether this downsizing is accompanied by increased or decreased evolutionary rates of the remaining genes is poorly known, not least because homeolog pairings are often obscured by chromosomal rearrangement. Here, we use the newly published genome from a sedge, namely Kobresia littledalei, and CRISPR/Cas-9 editing to investigate how the Rho WGD event 70 million years ago (MYA) affected transcription factor evolutionary rates, fates, and function in rice (Oryza sativa) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). We focus on the 30-member DNA-binding with one zinc finger (Dof) transcription factor family in both crops due to their agronomic importance. Using the known speciation dates of rice from Kobresia (97 MYA) and sorghum (50 MYA), we find that rates of amino acid substitution in the critical Dof domain region were over twofold higher during the 20-million-year period following the WGD than before or afterward. Through comparison of synteny blocks, we report that at least 11% of Dof genes were purged from 70 to 50 MYA, while only 6% have been lost in the most recent 50-million-year interval. CRISPR/Cas9 editing revealed widespread fitness-related defects in flowering and lack of redundancy of paired members, as well as significant differences in expression between gene pairs. Together these findings demonstrate the strength of Dof genes as a model for deep evolutionary study and offer one of the most detailed portraits yet of the Rho WGD impact on a gene lineage.
Sorghum is one of the staple crops for millions of people in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) and South Asia (SA). The future climate in these sorghum production regions is likely to have unexpected short or long episodes of drought and/or high temperature (HT), which can cause significant yield losses. Therefore, to achieve food and nutritional security, drought and HT stress tolerance ability in sorghum must be genetically improved. Drought tolerance mechanism, stay green, and grain yield under stress has been widely studied. However, novel traits associated with drought (restricted transpiration and root architecture) need to be explored and utilized in breeding. In sorghum, knowledge on the traits associated with HT tolerance is limited. Heat shock transcription factors, dehydrins, and genes associated with hormones such as auxin, ethylene, and abscisic acid and compatible solutes are involved in drought stress modulation. In contrast, our understanding of HT tolerance at the omic level is limited and needs attention. Breeding programs have exploited limited traits with narrow genetic and genomic resources to develop drought or heat tolerant lines. Reproductive stages of sorghum are relatively more sensitive to stress compared to vegetative stages. Therefore, breeding should incorporate appropriate pre-flowering and post-flowering tolerance in a broad genetic base population and in heterotic hybrid breeding pipelines. Currently, more than 240 QTLs are reported for drought tolerance-associated traits in sorghum prospecting discovery of trait markers. Identifying traits and better understanding of physiological and genetic mechanisms and quantification of genetic variability for these traits may enhance HT tolerance. Drought and HT tolerance can be improved by better understanding mechanisms associated with tolerance and screening large germplasm collections to identify tolerant lines and incorporation of those traits into elite breeding lines. Systems approaches help in identifying the best donors of tolerance to be incorporated in the SSA and SA sorghum breeding programs. Integrated breeding with use of high-throughput precision phenomics and genomics can deliver a range of drought and HT tolerant genotypes that can improve yield and resilience of sorghum under drought and HT stresses.
Miscanthus sinensis Andersson is a perennial grass that exhibits remarkable lignocellulose characteristics suitable for sustainable bioenergy production. However, knowledge of the genetic resources of this species is relatively limited, which considerably hampers further work on its biology and genetic improvement. In this study, through analyzing the transcriptome of mixed samples of leaves and stems using the latest PacBio Iso-Seq sequencing technology combined with Illumina HiSeq, we report the first full-length transcriptome dataset of M. sinensis with a total of 58.21 Gb clean data. An average of 15.75 Gb clean reads of each sample were obtained from the PacBio Iso-Seq system, which doubled the data size (6.68 Gb) obtained from the Illumina HiSeq platform. The integrated analyses of PacBio- and Illumina-based transcriptomic data uncovered 408,801 non-redundant transcripts with an average length of 1,685 bp. Of those, 189,406 transcripts were commonly identified by both methods, 169,149 transcripts with an average length of 619 bp were uniquely identified by Illumina HiSeq, and 51,246 transcripts with an average length of 2,535 bp were uniquely identified by PacBio Iso-Seq. Approximately 96 % of the final combined transcripts were mapped back to the Miscanthus genome, reflecting the high quality and coverage of our sequencing results. When comparing our data with genomes of four species of Andropogoneae, M. sinensis showed the closest relationship with sugarcane with up to 93 % mapping ratios, followed by sorghum with up to 80 % mapping ratios, indicating a high conservation of orthologs in these three genomes. Furthermore, 306,228 transcripts were successfully annotated against public databases including cell wall related genes and transcript factor families, thus providing many new insights into gene functions. The PacBio Iso-Seq data also helped identify 3,898 alternative splicing events and 2,963 annotated AS isoforms within 10 function categories. Taken together, the present study provides a rich data set of full-length transcripts that greatly enriches our understanding of M. sinensis transcriptomic resources, thus facilitating further genetic improvement and molecular studies of the Miscanthus species.
Sugarcane (Saccharum) is the most critical sugar crop worldwide. As one of the most enriched transcription factor families in plants, MYB genes display a great potential to contribute to sugarcane improvement by trait modification. We have identified the sugarcane MYB gene family at a whole-genome level through systematic evolution analyses and expression profiling. R2R3-MYB is a large subfamily involved in many plant-specific processes. A total of 202 R2R3-MYB genes (356 alleles) were identified in the polyploid Saccharum spontaneum genomic sequence and classified into 15 subgroups by phylogenetic analysis. The sugarcane MYB family had more members by a comparative analysis in sorghum and significant advantages among most plants, especially grasses. Collinearity analysis revealed that 70% of the SsR2R3-MYB genes had experienced duplication events, logically suggesting the contributors to the MYB gene family expansion. Functional characterization was performed to identify 56 SsR2R3-MYB genes involved in various plant bioprocesses with expression profiling analysis on 60 RNA-seq databases. We identified 22 MYB genes specifically expressed in the stem, of which RT-qPCR validated MYB43, MYB53, MYB65, MYB78, and MYB99. Allelic expression dominance analysis implied the differential expression of alleles might be responsible for the high expression of MYB in the stem. MYB169, MYB181, MYB192 were identified as candidate C This is the first report on genome-wide analysis of the MYB gene family in sugarcane. SsMYBs probably played an essential role in stem development and the adaptation of various stress conditions. The results will provide detailed insights and rich resources to understand the functional diversity of MYB transcription factors and facilitate the breeding of essential traits in sugarcane.
Abiotic stresses (AbS), such as drought, salinity, and thermal stresses, could highly affect the growth and development of plants. For decades, researchers have attempted to unravel the mechanisms of AbS for enhancing the corresponding tolerance of plants, especially for crop production in agriculture. In the present communication, we summarized the significant factors (atmosphere, soil and water) of AbS, their regulations, and integrated omics in the most important cereal crops in the world, especially rice, wheat, sorghum, and maize. It has been suggested that using systems biology and advanced sequencing approaches in genomics could help solve the AbS response in cereals. An emphasis was given to holistic approaches such as, bioinformatics and functional omics, gene mining and agronomic traits, genome-wide association studies (GWAS), and transcription factors (TFs) family with respect to AbS. In addition, the development of omics studies has improved to address the identification of AbS responsive genes and it enables the interaction between signaling pathways, molecular insights, novel traits and their significance in cereal crops. This review compares AbS mechanisms to omics and bioinformatics resources to provide a comprehensive view of the mechanisms. Moreover, further studies are needed to obtain the information from the integrated omics databases to understand the AbS mechanisms for the development of large spectrum AbS-tolerant crop production.
This study aimed to evaluate the effect of dry heated sorghum BRS 305 hybrid flour, as a rich source of resistant starch and tannins, on inflammation and oxidative stress in animals fed with a high-fat high-fructose diet. Phase 1 (8 weeks): male Wistar rats were divided into a group fed with an AIN-93 M diet (
A novel genic male-sterile mutant ms40 was obtained from EMS treated RP125. The key candidate gene ZmbHLH51 located on chromosome 4 was identified by map-based cloning. This study further enriched the male sterile gene resources for both production applications and theoretical studies of abortion mechanisms. Maize male-sterile mutant 40 (ms40) was obtained from the progeny of the ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) treated inbred line RP125. Genetic analysis indicated that the sterility was controlled by a single recessive nuclear gene. Cytological observation of anthers revealed that the cuticles of ms40 anthers were abnormal, and no Ubisch bodies were observed on the inner surface of ms40 anthers through scanning electron microscopy(SEM). Moreover, its tapetum exhibited delayed degradation and then blocked the formation of normal microspores. Using map-based cloning strategy, the ms40 locus was found to locate in a 282-kb interval on chromosome 4, and five annotated genes were predicted within this region. PCR-based sequencing detected a single non-synonymous SNP (G > A) that changed glycine (G) to arginine (A) in the seventh exon of Zm00001d053895, while no sequence difference between ms40 and RP125 was found for the other four genes. Zm00001d053895 encodes the bHLH transcription factor ZmbHLH51 which is localized in the nucleus. Phylogenetic analysis showed that ZmbHLH51 had the highest homology with Sb04g001650, a tapetum degeneration retardation (TDR) bHLH transcription factor in Sorghum bicolor. Co-expression analysis revealed a total of 1192 genes co-expressed with ZmbHLH51 in maize, 647 of which were anther-specific genes. qRT-PCR results suggested the expression levels of some known genes related to anther development were affected in ms40. In summary, these findings revealed the abortion characteristics of ms40 anthers and lay a foundation for further studies on the mechanisms of male fertility.
Loss of the awn in some cereals, including sorghum, is a key transition during cereal domestication or improvement that has facilitated grain harvest and storage. The genetic basis of awn loss in sorghum during domestication or improvement remains unknown. Here, we identified the awn1 gene encoding a transcription factor with the ALOG domain that is responsible for awn loss during sorghum domestication or improvement. awn1 arose from a gene duplication on chromosome 10 that translocated to chromosome 3, recruiting a new promoter from the neighboring intergenic region filled with "noncoding DNA" and recreating the first exon and intron. awn1 acquired high expression after duplication and represses the elongation of awns in domesticated sorghum. Comparative mapping revealed high collinearity at the awn1 paralog locus on chromosome 10 across cereals, and awn growth and development were successfully reactivated on the rice spikelet by inactivating the rice awn1 ortholog. RNA-seq and DAP-seq revealed that as a transcriptional repressor, AWN1 bound directly to a motif in the regulatory regions of three MADS genes related to flower development and two genes, DL and LKS2, involved in awn development. AWN1 downregulates the expression of these genes, thereby repressing awn elongation. The preexistence of regulatory elements in the neighboring intergenic region of awn1 before domestication implicates that noncoding DNA may serve as a treasure trove for evolution during sorghum adaptation to a changing world. Taken together, our results suggest that gene duplication can rapidly drive the evolution of gene regulatory networks in plants.
GRAS, an important family of transcription factors, have played pivotal roles in regulating numerous intriguing biological processes in plant development and abiotic stress responses. Since the sequencing of the sorghum genome, a plethora of genetic studies were mainly focused on the genomic information. The indepth identification or genome-wide analysis of GRAS family genes, especially in Sorghum bicolor, have rarely been studied. A total of 81 SbGRAS genes were identified based on the S. bicolor genome. They were named SbGRAS01 to SbGRAS81 and grouped into 13 subfamilies (LISCL, DLT, OS19, SCL4/7, PAT1, SHR, SCL3, HAM-1, SCR, DELLA, HAM-2, LAS and OS4). SbGRAS genes are not evenly distributed on the chromosomes. According to the results of the gene and motif composition, SbGRAS members located in the same group contained analogous intron/exon and motif organizations. We found that the contribution of tandem repeats to the increase in sorghum GRAS members was slightly greater than that of fragment repeats. By quantitative (q) RT-PCR, the expression of 13 SbGRAS members in different plant tissues and in plants exposed to six abiotic stresses at the seedling stage were quantified. We further investigated the relationship between DELLA genes, GAs and grain development in S. bicolor. The paclobutrazol treatment significantly increased grain weight, and affected the expression levels of all DELLA subfamily genes. SbGRAS03 is the most sensitive to paclobutrazol treatment, but also has a high response to abiotic stresses. Collectively, SbGRAs play an important role in plant development and response to abiotic stress. This systematic analysis lays the foundation for further study of the functional characteristics of GRAS genes of S. bicolor.
The dehydration-responsive element-binding proteins (DREBs) are important transcription factors that interact with a DRE/CRT (C-repeat) sequence and involve in response to multiple abiotic stresses in plants. Modern sugarcane are hybrids from the cross between Saccharum spontaneum and Saccharum officinarum, and the high sugar content is considered to the attribution of S. officinaurm, while the stress tolerance is attributed to S. spontaneum. To understand the molecular and evolutionary characterization and gene functions of the DREBs in sugarcane, based on the recent availability of the whole genome information, the present study performed a genome-wide in silico analysis of DREB genes and transcriptome analysis in the polyploidy S. spontaneum. Twelve DREB1 genes and six DREB2 genes were identified in S. spontaneum genome and all proteins contained a conserved AP2/ERF domain. Eleven SsDREB1 allele genes were assumed to be originated from tandem duplications, and two of them may be derived after the split of S. spontaneum and the proximal diploid species sorghum, suggesting tandem duplication contributed to the expansion of DREB1-type genes in sugarcane. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that one DREB2 gene was lost during the evolution of sugarcane. Expression profiling showed different SsDREB genes with variable expression levels in the different tissues, indicating seven SsDREB genes were likely involved in the development and photosynthesis of S. spontaneum. Furthermore, SsDREB1F, SsDREB1L, SsDREB2D, and SsDREB2F were up-regulated under drought and cold condition, suggesting that these four genes may be involved in both dehydration and cold response in sugarcane. These findings demonstrated the important role of DREBs not only in the stress response, but also in the development and photosynthesis of S. spontaneum.
A number of mutational changes in transcriptional regulators of defense metabolism have occurred during plant domestication and improvement. Plant domestication and improvement entail genetic changes that underlie divergence in development and metabolism, providing a tremendous model of biological evolution. Plant metabolism produces numerous specialized alkaloids, terpenoids, phenolics, and cyanogenic glucosides with indispensable roles in defense against herbivory and microbial infection. Many compounds toxic or deterrent to predators have been eliminated through domestication and breeding. Series of genes involved in defense metabolism are coordinately regulated by transcription factors that specifically recognize cis-regulatory elements in promoter regions of downstream target genes. Recent developments in DNA sequencing technologies and genomic approaches have facilitated studies of the metabolic and genetic changes in chemical defense that have occurred via human-mediated selection, many of which result from mutations in transcriptional regulators of defense metabolism. In this article, we review such examples in almond (Prunus dulcis), cucumber (Cucumis sativus), pepper (Capsicum spp.), potato (Solanum tuberosum), quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and related species and discuss insights into the evolution and regulation of metabolic pathways for specialized defense compounds.
Basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) is a superfamily of transcription factors that is widely found in plants and animals, and is the second largest transcription factor family in eukaryotes after MYB. They have been shown to be important regulatory components in tissue development and many different biological processes. However, no systemic analysis of the bHLH transcription factor family has yet been reported in Sorghum bicolor. We conducted the first genome-wide analysis of the bHLH transcription factor family of Sorghum bicolor and identified 174 SbbHLH genes. Phylogenetic analysis of SbbHLH proteins and 158 Arabidopsis thaliana bHLH proteins was performed to determine their homology. In addition, conserved motifs, gene structure, chromosomal spread, and gene duplication of SbbHLH genes were studied in depth. To further infer the phylogenetic mechanisms in the SbbHLH family, we constructed six comparative syntenic maps of S. bicolor associated with six representative species. Finally, we analyzed the gene-expression response and tissue-development characteristics of 12 typical SbbHLH genes in plants subjected to six different abiotic stresses. Gene expression during flower and fruit development was also examined. This study is of great significance for functional identification and confirmation of the S. bicolor bHLH superfamily and for our understanding of the bHLH superfamily in higher plants.
Targeted engineering of plant gene expression holds great promise for ensuring food security and for producing biopharmaceuticals in plants. However, this engineering requires thorough knowledge of cis-regulatory elements to precisely control either endogenous or introduced genes. To generate this knowledge, we used a massively parallel reporter assay to measure the activity of nearly complete sets of promoters from Arabidopsis, maize and sorghum. We demonstrate that core promoter elements-notably the TATA box-as well as promoter GC content and promoter-proximal transcription factor binding sites influence promoter strength. By performing the experiments in two assay systems, leaves of the dicot tobacco and protoplasts of the monocot maize, we detect species-specific differences in the contributions of GC content and transcription factors to promoter strength. Using these observations, we built computational models to predict promoter strength in both assay systems, allowing us to design highly active promoters comparable in activity to the viral 35S minimal promoter. Our results establish a promising experimental approach to optimize native promoter elements and generate synthetic ones with desirable features.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small non-coding RNAs that play an important role in post-transcriptional gene regulation in plants and animals by targeting messenger RNAs (mRNAs) for cleavage or repressing translation of specific mRNAs. The first miRNA identified in plants, miRNA156 (miR156), targets the SQUAMOSA promoter-binding protein-like (SPL) transcription factors, which play critical roles in plant phase transition, flower and plant architecture, and fruit development. We identified multiple copies of
The plant specific TIFY (previously known as ZIM) transcription factor (TF) family plays crucial roles in cross talk between Jasmonic Acid and other phytohormones like gibberellins, salicylic acid, abscisic acid, auxin, and ethylene signaling pathways. Wheat yield is severely affected by rust diseases and many abiotic stresses, where different phytohormone signaling pathways are involved. TIFYs have been studied in many plants yet reports describing their molecular structure and function in wheat are lacking. In the present study, we have identified 23 novel TIFY genes in wheat genome using in silico approaches. The identified proteins were characterized based on their conserved domains and phylogenetically classified into nine subfamilies. Chromosomal localization of the identified TIFY genes showed arbitrary distribution. Forty cis-acting elements including phytohormone, stress and light receptive elements were detected in the upstream regions of TIFY genes. Seventeen wheat microRNAs targeted the identified wheat TIFY genes. Gene ontological studies revealed their major contribution in defense response and phytohormone signaling. Secondary structure of TIFY proteins displayed the characteristic alpha-alpha-beta fold. Synteny analyses indicated all wheat TIFY genes had orthologous sequences in sorghum, rice, maize, barley and Brachypodium indicating presence of similar TIFY domains in monocot plants. Six TIFY genes had been cloned from wheat genomic and cDNA. Sequence characterization revealed similar characteristics as the in silico identified novel TIFY genes. Tertiary structures predicted the active sites in these proteins to play critical roles in DNA binding. Expression profiling of TIFY genes showed their contribution during incompatible and compatible leaf rust infestation. TIFY genes were also highly expressed during the initial hours of phytohormone induced stress. This study furnishes fundamental information on characterization and putative functions of TIFY genes in wheat.
Sorghum grain mold is the most important disease of the crop. The disease results from simultaneous infection of the grain by multiple fungal species. Host responses to these fungi and the underlying molecular and cellular processes are poorly understood. To understand the genetic, molecular and biochemical components of grain mold resistance, transcriptome profiles of the developing grain of resistant and susceptible sorghum genotypes were studied. The developing kernels of grain mold resistant RTx2911 and susceptible RTx430 sorghum genotypes were inoculated with a mixture of fungal pathogens mimicking the species complexity of the disease under natural infestation. Global transcriptome changes corresponding to multiple molecular and cellular processes, and biological functions including defense, secondary metabolism, and flavonoid biosynthesis were observed with differential regulation in the two genotypes. Genes encoding pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), regulators of growth and defense homeostasis, antimicrobial peptides, pathogenesis-related proteins, zein seed storage proteins, and phytoalexins showed increased expression correlating with resistance. Notably, SbLYK5 gene encoding an orthologue of chitin PRR, defensin genes SbDFN7.1 and SbDFN7.2 exhibited higher expression in the resistant genotype. The SbDFN7.1 and SbDFN7.2 genes are tightly linked and transcribed in opposite orientation with a likely common bidirectional promoter. Interestingly, increased expression of JAZ and other transcriptional repressors were observed that suggested the tight regulation of plant defense and growth. The data suggest a pathogen inducible defense system in the developing grain of sorghum that involves the chitin PRR, MAPKs, key transcription factors, downstream components regulating immune gene expression and accumulation of defense molecules. We propose a model through which the biosynthesis of 3-deoxyanthocynidin phytoalexins, defensins, PR proteins, other antimicrobial peptides, and defense suppressing proteins are regulated by a pathogen inducible defense system in the developing grain. The transcriptome data from a rarely studied tissue shed light into genetic, molecular, and biochemical components of disease resistance and suggested that the developing grain shares conserved immune response mechanisms but also components uniquely enriched in the grain. Resistance was associated with increased expression of genes encoding regulatory factors, novel grain specific antimicrobial peptides including defensins and storage proteins that are potential targets for crop improvement.
TAZ (transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding) zinc finger domains, also known as transcription adaptor putative zinc finger domains, that control diverse function in plant growth and development. Here, in the present study, we evaluated the role of the TAZ domain-containing gene in response to various heavy metals. Initially, we found a total of 3, 7, 8, 9, 9, 9, 7, 14, 6, 10, and 6 proteins containing TAZ domain in stiff brome, millet, sorghum, potato, pepper, maize, rice, apple, peach, pear, and tomato genome that could trigger the plant resistance against various heavy metals, respectively. Various in-silico approaches were applied such as duplication, phylogenetic analysis, and gene structure, to understand the basic features of the TAZ domain-containing genes in plants. Gene expression analyses were also performed under heavy metals (Cr, Zn, Ni, Cd, Co, Fe, Mn, and Pb). The results of quantitative real-time PCR analysis indicated that the TAZ gene family members were differentially expressed under different heavy metals. We further characterized the functions of the TAZ domain-containing gene under the heavy metal stresses by overexpressing the OsTAZ4 gene in Arabidopsis. The TAZ genes could promote plant resistance against various heavy metals by interacting with OsMYB34 and OsFHA9 transcription factors. The results will contribute to elucidate the relationship of TAZ proteins with heavy metals stresses and also ascertain the biological function in plant growth and development.
Phenotypes such as branching, photoperiod sensitivity, and height were modified during plant domestication and crop improvement. Here, we perform quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping of these and other agronomic traits in a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from an interspecific cross between Sorghum propinquum and Sorghum bicolor inbred Tx7000. Using low-coverage Illumina sequencing and a bin-mapping approach, we generated ∼1920 bin markers spanning ∼875 cM. Phenotyping data were collected and analyzed from two field locations and one greenhouse experiment for six agronomic traits, thereby identifying a total of 30 QTL. Many of these QTL were penetrant across environments and co-mapped with major QTL identified in other studies. Other QTL uncovered new genomic regions associated with these traits, and some of these were environment-specific in their action. To further dissect the genetic underpinnings of tillering, we complemented QTL analysis with transcriptomics, identifying 6189 genes that were differentially expressed during tiller bud elongation. We identified genes such as Dormancy Associated Protein 1 (DRM1) in addition to various transcription factors that are differentially expressed in comparisons of dormant to elongating tiller buds and lie within tillering QTL, suggesting that these genes are key regulators of tiller elongation in sorghum. Our study demonstrates the usefulness of this RIL population in detecting domestication and improvement-associated genes in sorghum, thus providing a valuable resource for genetic investigation and improvement to the sorghum community.
Millets are the strategic food crops in arid and drought-prone ecologies. Millets, by virtue of nature, are very well-adapted to drought conditions and able to produce sustainable yield. Millets have important nutrients that can help prevent micro-nutrient malnutrition. As a result of the adverse effect of climate change and widespread malnutrition, millets have attained a strategic position to sustain food and nutritional security. Although millets can adapt well to the drought ecologies where other cereals fail completely, the yield level is very low under stress. There is a tremendous opportunity to increase the genetic potential of millet crops in dry lands when the genetics of the drought-tolerance mechanism is fully explained. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are the class of small RNAs that control trait expression. They are part of the gene regulation but little studied in millets. In the present study, novel miRNAs and gene targets were identified from the genomic resources of pearl millet, sorghum, foxtail millet, finger millet, and proso millet through
Crop tolerance to multiple abiotic stresses has long been pursued as a Holy Grail in plant breeding efforts that target crop adaptation to tropical soils. On tropical, acidic soils, aluminum (Al) toxicity, low phosphorus (P) availability and drought stress are the major limitations to yield stability. Molecular breeding based on a small suite of pleiotropic genes, particularly those with moderate to major phenotypic effects, could help circumvent the need for complex breeding designs and large population sizes aimed at selecting transgressive progeny accumulating favorable alleles controlling polygenic traits. The underlying question is twofold: do common tolerance mechanisms to Al toxicity, P deficiency and drought exist? And if they do, will they be useful in a plant breeding program that targets stress-prone environments. The selective environments in tropical regions are such that multiple, co-existing regulatory networks may drive the fixation of either distinctly different or a smaller number of pleiotropic abiotic stress tolerance genes. Recent studies suggest that genes contributing to crop adaptation to acidic soils, such as the major Arabidopsis Al tolerance protein, AtALMT1, which encodes an aluminum-activated root malate transporter, may influence both Al tolerance and P acquisition via changes in root system morphology and architecture. However,
With the perpetuation of soil salinization, it is imperative to improve the salt and alkaline tolerance of crops.
Sugarcane is the most important sugar and biofuel crop. MADS-box genes encode transcription factors that are involved in developmental control and signal transduction in plants. Systematic analyses of MADS-box genes have been reported in many plant species, but its identification and characterization were not possible until a reference genome of autotetraploid wild type sugarcane specie, Saccharum spontaneum is available recently. We identified 182 MADS-box sequences in the S. spontaneum genome, which were annotated into 63 genes, including 6 (9.5%) genes with four alleles, 21 (33.3%) with three, 29 (46%) with two, 7 (11.1%) with one allele. Paralogs (tandem duplication and disperse duplicated) were also identified and characterized. These MADS-box genes were divided into two groups; Type-I (21 Mα, 4 Mβ, 4 Mγ) and Type-II (32 MIKCc, 2 MIKC*) through phylogenetic analysis with orthologs in Arabidopsis and sorghum. Structural diversity and distribution of motifs were studied in detail. Chromosomal localizations revealed that S. spontaneum MADS-box genes were randomly distributed across eight homologous chromosome groups. The expression profiles of these MADS-box genes were analyzed in leaves, roots, stem sections and after hormones treatment. Important alleles based on promoter analysis and expression variations were dissected. qRT-PCR analysis was performed to verify the expression pattern of pivotal S. spontaneum MADS-box genes and suggested that flower timing genes (SOC1 and SVP) may regulate vegetative development.
Anthracnose is a damaging disease of sorghum caused by the fungal pathogen Colletotrichum sublineolum. Genome-wide mRNA and microRNA (miRNA) profiles of resistant and susceptible sorghum genotypes were studied to understand components of immune responses, and fungal induced miRNA and target gene networks. A total of 18 mRNA and 12 miRNA libraries from resistant and susceptible sorghum lines were sequenced prior to and after inoculation with C. sublineolum. Significant differences in transcriptomes of the susceptible and resistant genotypes were observed with dispersion distance and hierarchical cluster tree analyses. Of the total 33,032 genes predicted in the sorghum genome, 19,593 were induced by C. sublineolum, and 15,512 were differentially expressed (DEGs) between the two genotypes. The resistant line was marked by significant reprogramming of the transcriptome at 24 h post inoculation (hpi), and a decrease at 48 hpi, whereas the susceptible line displayed continued changes in gene expression concordant with elevated fungal growth in the susceptible genotype. DEGs encode proteins implicated in diverse functions including photosynthesis, synthesis of tetrapyrrole, carbohydrate and secondary metabolism, immune signaling, and chitin binding. Genes encoding immune receptors, MAPKs, pentatricopeptide repeat proteins, and WRKY transcription factors were induced in the resistant genotype. In a parallel miRNA profiling, the susceptible line displayed greater number of differentially expressed miRNAs than the resistant line indicative of a widespread suppression of gene expression. Interestingly, we found 75 miRNAs, including 36 novel miRNAs, which were differentially expressed in response to fungal inoculation. The expression of 50 miRNAs was significantly different between resistant and susceptible lines. Subsequently, for 35 differentially expressed miRNAs, the corresponding 149 target genes were identified. Expression of 56 target genes were significantly altered after inoculation, showing inverse expression with the corresponding miRNAs. We provide insights into genome wide dynamics of mRNA and miRNA profiles, biological and cellular processes underlying host responses to fungal infection in sorghum. Resistance is correlated with early transcriptional reprogramming of genes in various pathways. Fungal induced genes, miRNAs and their targets with a potential function in host responses to anthracnose were identified, opening avenues for genetic dissection of resistance mechanisms.
A "smart canopy" ideotype has been proposed with leaves being upright at the top and more horizontal toward the bottom of the plant to maximize light interception and conversion efficiencies, and thus increasing yield. The genetic control of leaf angle has, to date, been studied on one or two leaves, or data have been merged from multiple leaves to generate average values. This approach has limited our understanding of the diversity of leaf angles across layers and their genetic control. Genome-wide association studies and quantitative trait loci mapping studies in sorghum (
Human colon cancer is the third leading cause of mortality in the United States and worldwide. Chemoprevention using diet is widely accepted as a promising approach for cancer management. Numerous population studies indicate a negative correlation between the incidence of colon cancer and consumption of whole grains with a high content of bioactive phenolic compounds. In the current study, we evaluated the anticancer properties of a high phenolic sorghum bran extract prepared using 70% ethanol with 5% citric acid solvent at room temperature. A significant dose-dependent suppression of cell proliferation was observed in human colon cancer cells treated with the high phenolic sorghum bran extract. Apoptosis and S phase growth arrest were induced, while cell migration and invasion were inhibited by this treatment; these effects were accompanied by altered expression of apoptosis, cell cycle, and metastasis-regulating genes. We also found that the high phenolic sorghum bran extract stimulated DNA damage in association with induction of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and c-Jun-NH
Mosaic is a historically important viral disease of sugarcane in Louisiana caused by Sugarcane mosaic virus and, currently, by Sorghum mosaic virus (SrMV). Sugarcane clones can have variable responses to mosaic for different traits, including susceptibility to infection and yield loss. Disease incidence and rate of increase within a multiple-year crop cycle is affected by susceptibility and other epidemiological factors, possibly including recovery from symptom expression and virus infection. Recovery (defined as the emergence of asymptomatic plants from buds on planted symptomatic stalks) and the impact of mosaic on yield components were evaluated in two sugarcane cultivars, HoCP 09-804 and L 10-147. Recovery varied between the two cultivars. Across two experiments, L 10-147 had a higher frequency of recovery (range 9.4 to 19.8%) than HoCP 09-804 (range 0.9 to 2.3%). A reverse-transcription PCR assay did not detect SrMV in 96.5% of 143 L 10-147 leaf samples and 83.3% of 6 HoCP 09-804 leaf samples collected from recovered plants. When comparing symptomatic and asymptomatic plantings, mosaic reduced cane and sucrose yield in HoCP 09-804 but not L 10-147, suggesting a possible association between recovery and tolerance to virus infection.
APETALA2/ETHYLENE RESPONSIVE FACTOR (AP2/ERF) transcription factors play essential roles in plant growth, development, metabolism, and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. However, few studies concerning AP2/ERF genes in sugarcane which are the most critical sugar and energy crops worldwide. A total of 218 AP2/ERF genes were identified in the Saccharum spontaneum genome. Phylogenetic analysis showed that these genes could be divided into four groups, including 43 AP2s, 160 ERFs and Dehydration-responsive element-binding (DREB) factors, 11 ABI3/VPs (RAV), and four Soloist genes. These genes were unevenly distributed on 32 chromosomes. The structural analysis of SsAP2/ERF genes showed that 91 SsAP2/ERFs lacked introns. Sugarcane and sorghum had a collinear relationship between 168 SsAP2/ERF genes and sorghum AP2/ERF genes that reflected their similarity. Multiple cis-regulatory elements (CREs) present in the SsAP2/ERF promoter were related to abiotic stresses, suggesting that SsAP2/ERF activity could contribute to sugarcane adaptation to environmental changes. The tissue-specific analysis showed spatiotemporal expression of SsAP2/ERF in the stems and leaves of sugarcane at different development stages. In ten sugarcane samples, 39 SsAP2/ERFs were not expressed, whereas 58 SsAP2/ERFs were expressed in all samples. Quantitative PCR experiments showed that SsERF52 expression was up-regulated under salt stress, but suppressed under dehydration stress. SsSoloist4 had the most considerable upregulation in response to treatment with the exogenous hormones ABA and GA. Within 3 h of ABA or PEG6000 treatment, SsSoloist4 expression was up-regulated, indicating that this gene could play a role in the responses to ABA and GA-associated dehydration stress. Analysis of AP2/ERF gene expression patterns under different treatments indicated that SsAP2/ERF genes played an essential role in dehydration and salt stress responses of S. spontaneum. In this study, a total of 218 members of the AP2 / ERF superfamily were identified in sugarcane, and their genetic structure, evolution characteristics, and expression patterns were studied and analyzed. The results of this study provide a foundation for future analyses to elucidate the importance of AP2/ERF transcription factors in the function and molecular breeding of sugarcane.
Among various abiotic stresses, water deficit hit the first in the list followed by heavy metal stresses as a serious environmental growth-limiting factor that restricts the global crop yield. Molecular approaches will help us to trace key regulators which are involved in stress-related phenomenon to enhance crop productivity. The present study functionally characterized one of the key regulators, OsMYB-R1 in Arabidopsis. Phylogenetic analyses indicated that OsMYB-R1 had a close relationship with Sorghum bicolour and Zea mays. Ectopic expression of OsMYB-R1 in Arabidopsis resulted in improved tolerance to PEG/drought and chromium stress in addition to conferring no tolerance to salinity stress. Further RNA seq. data revealed that OsMYB-R1 regulates the expression of key genes that improve the root architecture and maintain the cellular homeostasis of transgenic lines through an efficient anti-oxidant system. It also reveals the differential gene expression of stress-responsive and hormone-responsive genes, which indicate the intricate network of defense regulatory machinery activated in transgenic lines. Additionally, salicylic acid (SA) plays a significant role in promoting the growth of the OsMYB-R1 over-expressing plants and increased GUS intensity in SA treated OsMYB-R1 promoter plants demonstrate the explicit role of SA signaling in overcoming stress tolerance. Whereas no significant change was observed in OsMYB-R1 over-expressing plants after ABA and MeJA treatment. Overall, OsMYB-R1 is a promising gene resource for improving abiotic stress tolerance in other crops, especially in dicotyledon plants.
Aphid herbivory elicits plant defense-related networks that are influenced by host genetics. Plants of the upland switchgrass (
WRKY transcription factors regulate diverse biological processes in plants, including abiotic and biotic stress responses, and constitute one of the largest transcription factor families in higher plants. Although the past decade has seen significant progress towards identifying and functionally characterizing WRKY genes in diverse species, little is known about the WRKY family in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) moench). Here we report the comprehensive identification of 94 putative WRKY transcription factors (SbWRKYs). The SbWRKYs were divided into three groups (I, II, and III), with those in group II further classified into five subgroups (IIa-IIe), based on their conserved domains and zinc finger motif types. WRKYs from the model plant Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) were used for the phylogenetic analysis of all SbWRKY genes. Motif analysis showed that all SbWRKYs contained either one or two WRKY domains and that SbWRKYs within the same group had similar motif compositions. SbWRKY genes were located on all 10 sorghum chromosomes, and some gene clusters and two tandem duplications were detected. SbWRKY gene structure analysis showed that they contained 0-7 introns, with most SbWRKY genes consisting of two introns and three exons. Gene ontology (GO) annotation functionally categorized SbWRKYs under cellular components, molecular functions and biological processes. A cis-element analysis showed that all SbWRKYs contain at least one stress response-related cis-element. We exploited publicly available microarray datasets to analyze the expression profiles of 78 SbWRKY genes at different growth stages and in different tissues. The induction of SbWRKYs by different abiotic stresses hinted at their potential involvement in stress responses. qRT-PCR analysis revealed different expression patterns for SbWRKYs during drought stress. Functionally characterized WRKY genes in Arabidopsis and other species will provide clues for the functional characterization of putative orthologs in sorghum. Thus, the present study delivers a solid foundation for future functional studies of SbWRKY genes and their roles in the response to critical stresses such as drought.
The Ethylene-Response Factor (ERF) subfamily transcription factors (TFs) belong to the APETALA2/Ethylene-Responsive Factor (AP2/ERF) superfamily and play a vital role in plant growth and development. However, identification and analysis of the ERF subfamily genes in maize have not yet been performed at genome-wide level. In this study, a total of 76 ERF subfamily TFs were identified and were found to be unevenly distributed on the maize chromosomes. These maize ERF (ZmERF) TFs were classified into six groups, namely groups B1 to B6, based on phylogenetic analysis. Synteny analysis showed that 50, 54, and 58 of the
An understanding of flower and panicle development is crucial for improving yield and quality in majority of grass crops. In this study, we used mapping-based cloning to identify
Large scale cultivation of sorghum for food, feed, and biofuel requires concerted efforts for engineering multipurpose cultivars with optimised agronomic traits. Due to their vital role in regulating the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoid-derived compounds, biomass composition, biotic, and abiotic stress response, R2R3-MYB family transcription factors are ideal targets for improving environmental resilience and economic value of sorghum. We used diverse computational biology tools to survey the sorghum genome to identify R2R3-MYB transcription factors followed by their structural and phylogenomic analysis. We used in-house generated as well as publicly available high throughput expression data to analyse the R2R3 expression patterns in various sorghum tissue types. We have identified a total of 134 R2R3-MYB genes from sorghum and developed a framework to predict gene functions. Collating information from the physical location, duplication, structural analysis, orthologous sequences, phylogeny, and expression patterns revealed the role of duplications in clade-wise expansion of the R2R3-MYB family as well as intra-clade functional diversification. Using publicly available and in-house generated RNA sequencing data, we provide MYB candidates for conditioning biofuel syndrome by engineering phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and sugar signalling pathways in sorghum. The results presented here are pivotal to prioritize MYB genes for functional validation and optimize agronomic traits in sorghum.
Deep sequencing of DNase-I treated chromatin (DNase-seq) can be used to identify DNase I-hypersensitive sites (DHSs) and facilitates genome-scale mining of de novo
Heat shock transcription factor (Hsf) plays a transcriptional regulatory role in plants during heat stress and other abiotic stresses. 31 non-redundant ZmHsf genes from maize were identified and clustered in the reference genome sequenced by Single Molecule Real Time (SMRT). The amino acid length, chromosome location, and presence of functional domains and motifs of all ZmHsfs sequences were analyzed and determined. Phylogenetics and collinearity analyses reveal gene duplication events in Hsf family and collinearity blocks shared by maize, rice and sorghum. The results of RNA-Seq analysis of anthesis and post-anthesis periods in maize show different expression patterns of ZmHsf family members. Specially, ZmHsf26 of A2 subclass and ZmHsf23 of A6 subclass were distinctly up-regulated after heat shock (HS) at post-anthesis stage. Nanopore transcriptome sequencing of maize seedlings showed that alternative splicing (AS) events occur in ZmHsf04 and ZmHsf17 which belong to subclass A2 after heat shock. Through sequence alignment, semi-quantitative and quantitative RT-PCR, we found that intron retention events occur in response to heat shock, and newly splice isoforms, ZmHsf04-II and ZmHsf17-II, were transcribed. Both new isoforms contain several premature termination codons in their introns which may lead to early termination of translation. The ZmHsf04 expression was highly increased than that of ZmHsf17, and the up-regulation of ZmHsf04-I transcription level were significantly higher than that of ZmHsf04-II after HS.
G-quadruplexes are nucleic acid secondary structures formed by a stack of square planar G-quartets. G-quadruplexes were implicated in many biological functions including telomere maintenance, replication, transcription, and translation, in many species including humans and plants. For wheat, however, though it is one of the world's most important staple food, no G-quadruplex studies have been reported to date. Here, we computationally identify putative G4 structures (G4s) in wheat genome for the first time and compare its distribution across the genome against five other genomes (human, maize, Arabidopsis, rice, and sorghum). We identified close to 1 million G4 motifs with a density of 76 G4s/Mb across the whole genome and 93 G4s/Mb over genic regions. Remarkably, G4s were enriched around three regions, two located on the antisense and one on the sense strand at the following positions: 1) the transcription start site (TSS) (antisense), 2) the first coding domain sequence (CDS) (antisense), and 3) the start codon (sense). Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the gene models containing G4 motifs within these peaks were associated with specific gene ontology (GO) terms, such as developmental process, localization, and cellular component organization or biogenesis. We investigated genes encoding MADS-box transcription factors and showed examples of G4 motifs within critical regulatory regions in the VRN-1 genes in wheat. Furthermore, comparison with other plants showed that monocots share a similar distribution of G4s, but Arabidopsis shows a unique G4 distribution. Our study shows for the first time the prevalence and possible functional roles of G4s in wheat.
Most sorghum biomass accumulates in stem secondary cell walls (SCW). As sorghum stems are used as raw materials for various purposes such as feed, energy and fiber reinforced polymers, identifying the genes responsible for SCW establishment is highly important. Taking advantage of studies performed in model species, most of the structural genes contributing at the molecular level to the SCW biosynthesis in sorghum have been proposed while their regulatory factors have mostly not been determined. Validation of the role of several MYB and NAC transcription factors in SCW regulation in Arabidopsis and a few other species has been provided. In this study, we contributed to the recent efforts made in grasses to uncover the mechanisms underlying SCW establishment. We reported updated phylogenies of NAC and MYB in 9 different species and exploited findings from other species to highlight candidate regulators of SCW in sorghum. We acquired expression data during sorghum internode development and used co-expression analyses to determine groups of co-expressed genes that are likely to be involved in SCW establishment. We were able to identify two groups of co-expressed genes presenting multiple evidences of involvement in SCW building. Gene enrichment analysis of MYB and NAC genes provided evidence that while NAC SECONDARY WALL THICKENING PROMOTING FACTOR NST genes and SECONDARY WALL-ASSOCIATED NAC DOMAIN PROTEIN gene functions appear to be conserved in sorghum, NAC master regulators of SCW in sorghum may not be as tissue compartmentalized as in Arabidopsis. We showed that for every homolog of the key SCW MYB in Arabidopsis, a similar role is expected for sorghum. In addition, we unveiled sorghum MYB and NAC that have not been identified to date as being involved in cell wall regulation. Although specific validation of the MYB and NAC genes uncovered in this study is needed, we provide a network of sorghum genes involved in SCW both at the structural and regulatory levels.
APETALA2/Ethylene-Responsive transcription factors (AP2/ERF), with their multifunctional roles in plant development, hormone signaling and stress tolerance, are important candidates for engineering crop plants. Here, we report identification and analysis of gene structure, phylogenetic distribution, expression, chromosomal localization and
WRKY transcription factors have been suggested to play important roles in response and adaptation to drought stress. However, how sorghum WRKY transcription factors function in drought stress is still unclear. Here, we identify a WRKY transcription factor of sorghum, SbWRKY30, which is induced significantly by drought stress. SbWRKY30 is mainly expressed in sorghum taproot and leaf. SbWRKY30 has transcriptional activation activity and functions in the nucleus. Heterologous expression of SbWRKY30 confers tolerance to drought stress in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice by affecting root architecture. In addition, SbWRKY30 transgenic Arabidopsis and rice plants have higher proline contents and SOD, POD, and CAT activities but lower MDA contents than wild-type plants after drought stress. As a homologous gene of the drought stress-responsive gene RD19 of Arabidopsis, SbRD19 overexpression in Arabidopsis improved the drought tolerance of plants relative to wild-type plants. Further analysis demonstrated that SbWRKY30 could induce SbRD19 expression through binding to the W-box element in the promoter of SbRD19. These results suggest that SbWRKY30 functions as a positive regulator in response to drought stress. Therefore, SbWRKY30 may serve as a promising candidate gene for molecular breeding to generate drought-tolerant crops.
Plants have evolved complex mechanisms to respond to the fluctuation of available nitrogen (N) in soil, but the genetic mechanisms underlying the N response in crops are not well-documented. In this study, we generated a time series of NO
The WRKY transcription factor family is involved in responding to biotic and abiotic stresses. Its members contain a typical WRKY domain and can regulate plant physiological responses by binding to W-boxes in the promoter regions of downstream target genes. We identified the sweet sorghum SbWRKY50 (Sb09g005700) gene, which encodes a typical class II of the WRKY family protein that localizes to the nucleus and has transcriptional activation activity. The expression of SbWRKY50 in sweet sorghum was reduced by salt stress, and its ectopic expression reduced the salt tolerance of Arabidopsis thaliana plants. Compared with the wild type, the germination rate, root length, biomass and potassium ion content of SbWRKY50 over-expression plants decreased significantly under salt-stress conditions, while the hydrogen peroxide, superoxide anion and sodium ion contents increased. Real-time PCR results showed that the expression levels of AtSOS1, AtHKT1 and genes related to osmotic and oxidative stresses in over-expression strains decreased under salt-stress conditions. Luciferase complementation imaging and yeast one-hybrid assays confirmed that SbWRKY50 could directly bind to the upstream promoter of the SOS1 gene in A. thaliana. However, in sweet sorghum, SbWRKY50 could directly bind to the upstream promoters of SOS1 and HKT1. These results suggest that the new WRKY transcription factor SbWRKY50 participates in plant salt response by controlling ion homeostasis. However, the regulatory mechanisms are different in sweet sorghum and Arabidopsis, which may explain their different salt tolerance levels. The data provide information that can be applied to genetically modifying salt tolerance in different crop varieties.
Apoplastic barriers in the endodermis, such as Casparian strips and suberin lamellae, control the passage of water and minerals into the stele. Apoplastic barriers are thus thought to contribute to salt exclusion in salt-excluding plants such as sweet sorghum (
Because of their sessile lifestyle, plants are inescapably exposed to various kinds of environmental stresses throughout their lifetime. Therefore, to regulate their growth and development, plants constantly monitor the environmental signals and respond appropriately. However, these environmental stress factors, along with some endogenous metabolites, generated in response to environmental stress factors often induce various forms of DNA damage in plants and thus promote genome instability. To maintain the genomic integrity, plants have developed an extensive, sophisticated and coordinated cellular signaling mechanism known as DNA damage response or DDR. DDR evokes a signaling process which initiates with the sensing of DNA damage and followed by the subsequent activation of downstream pathways in many directions to repair and eliminate the harmful effects of DNA damages. SUPPRESSOR OF GAMMA RESPONSE 1 (SOG1), one of the newly identified components of DDR in plant genome, appears to play central role in this signaling network. SOG1 is a member of NAC [NO APICAL MERISTEM (NAM), ARABIDOPSIS TRANSCRIPTION ACTIVATION FACTOR (ATAF), CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON (CUC)] domain family of transcription factors and involved in a diverse array of function in plants, encompassing transcriptional response to DNA damage, cell cycle checkpoint functions, ATAXIA-TELANGIECTASIA-MUTATED (ATM) or ATAXIA TELANGIECTASIA AND RAD3-RELATED (ATR) mediated activation of DNA damage response and repair, functioning in programmed cell death and regulation of induction of endoreduplication. Although most of the functional studies on SOG1 have been reported in Arabidopsis, some recent reports have indicated diverse functions of SOG1 in various other plant species, including Glycine max, Medicago truncatula, Sorghum bicolour, Oryza sativa and Zea mays, respectively. The remarkable functional diversity shown by SOG1 protein indicates its multitasking capacity. In this review, we integrate information mainly related to functional aspects of SOG1 in the context of DDR in plants. Considering the important role of SOG1 in DDR and its functional diversity, in-depth functional study of this crucial regulatory protein can provide further potential information on genome stability maintenance mechanism in plants in the context of changing environmental condition.
Drought is a major limiting factor of crop yields. In response to drought, plants reprogram their gene expression, which ultimately regulates a multitude of biochemical and physiological processes. The timing of this reprogramming and the nature of the drought-regulated genes in different genotypes are thought to confer differential tolerance to drought stress. Sorghum is a highly drought-tolerant crop and has been increasingly used as a model cereal to identify genes that confer tolerance. Also, there is considerable natural variation in resistance to drought in different sorghum genotypes. Here, we evaluated drought resistance in four genotypes to polyethylene glycol (PEG)-induced drought stress at the seedling stage and performed transcriptome analysis in seedlings of sorghum genotypes that are either drought-resistant or drought-sensitive to identify drought-regulated changes in gene expression that are unique to drought-resistant genotypes of sorghum. Our analysis revealed that about 180 genes are differentially regulated in response to drought stress only in drought-resistant genotypes and most of these (over 70%) are up-regulated in response to drought. Among these, about 70 genes are novel with no known function and the remaining are transcription factors, signaling and stress-related proteins implicated in drought tolerance in other crops. This study revealed a set of drought-regulated genes, including many genes encoding uncharacterized proteins that are associated with drought tolerance at the seedling stage.
The heterogeneous distribution of soil salinity across the rhizosphere can moderate salt injury and improve sorghum growth. However, the essential molecular mechanisms used by sorghum to adapt to such environmental conditions remain uncharacterized. The present study evaluated physiological parameters such as the photosynthetic rate, antioxidative enzyme activities, leaf Na+ and K+ contents, and osmolyte contents and investigated gene expression patterns via RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis under various conditions of nonuniformly distributed salt. Totals of 5691 and 2047 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the leaves and roots, respectively, were identified by RNA-seq under nonuniform (NaCl-free and 200 mmol·L-1 NaCl) and uniform (100 mmol·L-1 and 100 mmol·L-1 NaCl) salinity conditions. The expression of genes related to photosynthesis, Na+ compartmentalization, phytohormone metabolism, antioxidative enzymes, and transcription factors (TFs) was enhanced in leaves under nonuniform salinity stress compared with uniform salinity stress. Similarly, the expression of the majority of aquaporins and essential mineral transporters was upregulated in the NaCl-free root side in the nonuniform salinity treatment, whereas abscisic acid (ABA)-related and salt stress-responsive TF transcripts were more abundant in the high-saline root side in the nonuniform salinity treatment. In contrast, the expression of the DEGs identified in the nonuniform salinity treatment remained virtually unaffected and was even downregulated in the uniform salinity treatment. The transcriptome findings might be supportive of the increased photosynthetic rate, reduced Na+ levels, increased antioxidative capability in the leaves and, consequently, the growth recovery of sorghum under nonuniform salinity stress as well as the inhibited sorghum growth under uniform salinity conditions. The increased expression of salt resistance genes activated in response to the nonuniform salinity distribution implied that the cross-talk between the nonsaline and high-saline sides of the roots exposed to nonuniform salt stress is potentially regulated.
WRKY is one of the largest transcription factor families in plants and plays important roles in the regulation of developmental and physiological processes. To date, the WRKY gene family has not been identified in Saccharum species because of its complex polyploid genome. In this study, a total of 294 sequences for 154 SsWRKY genes were identified in the polyploid Saccharum spontaneum genome and then named on the basis of their chromosome locations, including 13 (8.4%) genes with four alleles, 29 (18.8%) genes with three alleles and 41 (26.6%) genes with two alleles. Among them, 73.8% and 16.0% of the SsWRKY genes originated from segmental duplications and tandem duplications, respectively. The WRKY members exhibited conserved gene structures and amino acid sequences among the allelic haplotypes, which were accompanied by variations in intron sizes. Phylogenetic and collinearity analyses revealed that 27 SsWRKYs originated after the split of sorghum and Saccharum, resulting in a significantly higher number of WRKYs in sugarcane than in the proximal diploid species sorghum. The analysis of RNA-seq data revealed that SsWRKYs' expression profiles in 46 different samples including different developmental stages revealed distinct temporal and spatial patterns with 52 genes expressed in all tissues, four genes not expressed in any tissues and 21 SsWRKY genes likely to be involved in photosynthesis. The comprehensive analysis of SsWRKYs' expression will provide an important and valuable foundation for further investigation of the regulatory mechanisms of WRKYs in physiological roles in sugarcane S. spontaneum.
In field conditions, crops are adversely affected by a wide range of abiotic stresses including drought, cold, salt, and heat, as well as biotic stresses including pests and pathogens. These stresses can have a marked effect on crop yield. The present and future effects of climate change necessitate the improvement of crop stress tolerance. Plants have evolved sophisticated stress response strategies, and genes that encode transcription factors (TFs) that are master regulators of stress-responsive genes are excellent candidates for crop improvement. Related examples in recent studies include TF gene modulation and overexpression approaches in crop species to enhance stress tolerance. However, much remains to be discovered about the diverse plant TFs. Of the >80 TF families, only a few, such as NAC, MYB, WRKY, bZIP, and ERF/DREB, with vital roles in abiotic and biotic stress responses have been intensively studied. Moreover, although significant progress has been made in deciphering the roles of TFs in important cereal crops, fewer TF genes have been elucidated in sorghum. As a model drought-tolerant crop, sorghum research warrants further focus. This review summarizes recent progress on major TF families associated with abiotic and biotic stress tolerance and their potential for crop improvement, particularly in sorghum. Other TF families and non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression are discussed briefly. Despite the emphasis on sorghum, numerous examples from wheat, rice, maize, and barley are included. Collectively, the aim of this review is to illustrate the potential application of TF genes for stress tolerance improvement and the engineering of resistant crops, with an emphasis on sorghum.
Auxin response factor (ARF) is a transcription factor that can specifically bind to the promoter of auxin-responsive genes in plants and plays an important regulatory role in plant growth and development. The previous studies have predicted 25
This study focused on identifying bladder cancer (BC)-associated genes, transcription factors (TFs), and microRNAs (miRNAs). Two microarray data sets GSE37815 and GSE40355 were utilized to screen common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with BC. Then, functional enrichment analysis was performed for elucidating the involved functions of DEGs. Subsequently, the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and submodule of PPI network were analyzed. Finally, the regulation relationships of TF-DEGs and miRNA-DEGs were obtained to construct miRNA-target-TF regulatory network. DEGs were identified across BC and normal bladder tissues samples. Functional enrichment analysis results showed that most upregulated DEGs were closely associated with the Gene Ontology function of "mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint" and pathway of "Cell cycle," whereas most downregulated DEGs were significantly associated with "Complement and coagulation cascades" pathway (e.g.,
Members of the plant Heme Activator Protein (HAP) or NUCLEAR FACTOR Y (NF-Y) are trimeric transcription factor complexes composed of the NF-YA, NF-YB and NF-YC subfamilies. They bind to the CCAAT box in the promoter regions of the target genes and regulate gene expressions. Plant NF-Ys were reported to be involved in adaptation to several abiotic stresses as well as in development. In silico analysis of Sorghum bicolor genome resulted in the identification of a total of 42 NF-Y genes, among which 8 code for the SbNF-YA, 19 for SbNF-YB and 15 for the SbNF-YC subunits. Analysis was also performed to characterize gene structures, chromosomal distribution, duplication status, protein subcellular localizations, conserved motifs, ancestral protein sequences, miRNAs and phylogenetic tree construction. Phylogenetic relationships and ortholog predictions displayed that sorghum has additional NF-YB genes with unknown functions in comparison with Arabidopsis. Analysis of promoters revealed that they harbour many stress-related cis-elements like ABRE and HSE, but surprisingly, DRE and MYB elements were not detected in any of the subfamilies. SbNF-YA1, 2, and 6 were found upregulated under 200 mM salt and 200 mM mannitol stresses. While NF-YA7 appeared associated with high temperature (40°C) stress, NF-YA8 was triggered by both cold (4°C) and high temperature stresses. Among NF-YB genes, 7, 12, 15, and 16 were induced under multiple stress conditions such as salt, mannitol, ABA, cold and high temperatures. Likewise, NF-YC 6, 11, 12, 14, and 15 were enhanced significantly in a tissue specific manner under multiple abiotic stress conditions. Majority of the mannitol (drought)-inducible genes were also induced by salt, high temperature stresses and ABA. Few of the high temperature stress-induced genes are also induced by cold stress (NF-YA2, 4, 6, 8, NF-YB2, 7, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 17, NF-YC4, 6, 12, and 13) thus suggesting a cross talk among them. This work paves the way for investigating the roles of diverse sorghum NF-Y proteins during abiotic stress responses and provides an insight into the evolution of diverse NF-Y members.
Azotobacters have been used as biofertilizer since more than a century. Azotobacters fix nitrogen aerobically, elaborate plant hormones, solubilize phosphates and also suppress phytopathogens or reduce their deleterious effect. Application of wild type Azotobacters results in better yield of cereals like corn, wheat, oat, barley, rice, pearl millet and sorghum, of oil seeds like mustard and sunflower, of vegetable crops like tomato, eggplant, carrot, chillies, onion, potato, beans and sugar beet, of fruits like mango and sugar cane, of fiber crops like jute and cotton and of tree like oak. In addition to the structural genes of the enzyme nitrogenase and of other accessory proteins, A. vinelandii chromosomes contain the regulatory genes nifL and nifA. NifA must bind upstream of the promoters of all nif operons for enabling their expression. NifL on activation by oxygen or ammonium, interacts with NifA and neutralizes it. Nitrogen fixation has been enhanced by deletion of nifL and by bringing nifA under the control of a constitutive promoter, resulting in a strain that continues to fix nitrogen in presence of urea fertilizer. Additional copies of nifH (the gene for the Fe-protein of nitrogenase) have been introduced into A. vinelandii, thereby augmenting nitrogen fixation. The urease gene complex ureABC has been deleted, the ammonia transport gene amtB has been disrupted and the expression of the glutamine synthase gene has been regulated to enhance urea and ammonia excretion. Gluconic acid has been produced by introducing the glucose dehydrogenase gene, resulting in enhanced solubilization of phosphate.
As one of the most important transcription factor families, GRAS proteins are involved in numerous regulatory processes, especially plant growth and development. However, they have not been systematically analyzed in Brachypodium distachyon, a new model grass. In this study, 48 BdGRAS genes were identified. Duplicated genes account for 41.7% of them and contribute to the expansion of this gene family. 33, 39, 35 and 35 BdGRAS genes were identified by synteny with their orthologs in rice, sorghum, maize and wheat genome, respectively, indicating close relationships among these species. Based on their phylogenic relationships to GRAS genes in rice and maize, BdGRAS genes can be divided into ten subfamilies in which members of the same subfamily showed similar protein sequences, conserved motifs and gene structures, suggesting possible conserved functions. Although expression variation is high, some BdGRAS genes are tissue-specific, phytohormones- or abiotic stresses-responsive, and they may play key roles in development, signal transduction pathways and stress responses. In addition, DELLA genes BdSLR1 and BdSLRL1 were functionally characterized to play a role in plant growth via the GA signal pathway, consistent with GO annotations and KEGG pathway analyses. Systematic analyses of BdGRAS genes indicated that members of the same subfamily may play similar roles. This was supported by the conserved functions of BdSLR1 and BdSLRL1 in GA pathway. These results laid a foundation for further functional elucidation of BdGRAS genes, especially, BdSLR1 and BdSLRL1.
WRKY transcription factors are key regulators in regulating abiotic or biotic stress response in Arabidopsis. Previous studies showed that WRKY30 expression was induced by oxidative stress treatment, fungal elicitor, SA and ABA. However, functions of WRKY30 on viral defense are not well studied. Here, we found that Arabidopsis WRKY DNA binding protein 30 (WRKY30) plays essential roles in regulating Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) resistance. The expression of WRKY30 was induced by CMV infection and wrky30 mutant displayed more susceptibility (including higher oxidative damages, induced reactive oxygen species synthesis and more PSII photochemistry compromise), while WRKY30 overexpression plants (WRKY30OX) exhibited more resistance to CMV infection. Moreover BRs-induced CMV tolerance is partly dependent on WRKY30. And WRKY30 expression increased after BL treatment. All these demonstrated that WRKY30 works as a positive regulator in plant CMV resistance process.
SPLs are plant-specific transcription factors that play important regulatory roles in plant growth and development. Systematic analysis of the SPL family has been performed in numerous plants, such as Arabidopsis, rice, and Populus. However, no comparative analysis has been performed across different species to examine evolutionary features. In this study, we present a comparative analysis of SPLs in different species. The results showed that 84 SPLs of the four species can be divided into six groups according to phylogeny. We found that most of the SPL-containing regions in maize showed extensive conservation with duplicated regions of rice and sorghum. A gene duplication analysis in maize indicated that ZmSPLs showed a significant excess of segmental duplication. The Ka/Ks analysis indicated that 9 out of 18 duplicated pairs in maize experienced positive selection, while SPL gene pairs of rice and sorghum mainly evolved under purifying selection, suggesting novel evolutionary features for ZmSPLs. The 31 ZmSPLs were further analyzed by describing their gene structure, phylogenetic relationships, chromosomal location, and expression, Among the ZmSPLs, 13 were predicated to be targeted by miR156s and involved in drought stress response. These results provide the foundation for future functional analyses of ZmSPLs.
The Teosinte-branched 1/Cycloidea/Proliferating (TCP) plant-specific transcription factors (TFs) have been demonstrated to play a fundamental role in plant development and organ patterning. However, it remains unknown whether or not the
Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) is a low input, high biomass perennial grass being developed for the bioenergy sector. Upland and lowland cultivars can differ in their responses to insect herbivory. Fall armyworm [FAW; Spodoptera frugiperda JE Smith (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae)] is a generalist pest of many plant species and can feed on switchgrass as well. Here, in two different trials, FAW larval mass were significantly reduced when fed on lowland cultivar Kanlow relative to larvae fed on upland cultivar Summer plants after 10 days. Hormone content of plants indicated elevated levels of the plant defense hormone jasmonic acid (JA) and its bioactive conjugate JA-Ile although significant differences were not observed. Conversely, the precursor to JA, 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid (OPDA) levels were significantly different between FAW fed Summer and Kanlow plants raising the possibility of differential signaling by OPDA in the two cultivars. Global transcriptome analysis revealed a stronger response in Kanlow plant relative to Summer plants. Among these changes were a preferential upregulation of several branches of terpenoid and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis in Kanlow plants suggesting that enhanced biosynthesis or accumulation of antifeedants could have negatively impacted FAW larval mass gain on Kanlow plants relative to Summer plants. A comparison of the switchgrass-FAW RNA-Seq dataset to those from maize-FAW and switchgrass-aphid interactions revealed that key components of plant responses to herbivory, including induction of JA biosynthesis, key transcription factors and JA-inducible genes were apparently conserved in switchgrass and maize. In addition, these data affirm earlier studies with FAW and aphids that the cultivar Kanlow can provide useful genetics for the breeding of switchgrass germplasm with improved insect resistance.
Sorghum is often exposed to suboptimal low temperature stress under field conditions, particularly at the seedling establishment stage. Enhancing chilling tolerance will facilitate earlier planting and so minimize the negative impacts of other stresses experienced at later growth stages. Genome-wide association mapping was performed on a sorghum association panel grown under control (30/20 °C; day/night) and chilling (20/10 °C) conditions. Genomic regions on chromosome 7, controlling the emergence index and seedling (root and shoot) vigor, were associated with increased chilling tolerance but they did not co-localize with undesirable tannin content quantitative trait loci (QTLs). Shoot and root samples from highly contrasting haplotype pairs expressing differential responses to chilling stress were used to identify candidate genes. Three candidate genes (an alpha/beta hydrolase domain protein, a DnaJ/Hsp40 motif-containing protein, and a YTH domain-containing RNA-binding protein) were expressed at significantly higher levels under chilling stress in the tolerant haplotype compared with the sensitive haplotype and BTx623. Moreover, two CBF/DREB1A transcription factors on chromosome 2 showed a divergent response to chilling in the contrasting haplotypes. These studies identify haplotype differences on chromosome 7 that modulate chilling tolerance by either regulating CBF or feeding back into this signaling pathway. We have identified new candidate genes that will be useful markers in ongoing efforts to develop tannin-free chilling-tolerant sorghum hybrids.
In this study we examined the role of sorghum flavonoids in providing resistance against corn leaf aphid (CLA) Rhopalosiphum maidis. In sorghum, accumulation of these flavonoids is regulated by a MYB transcription factor, yellow seed1 (y1). Functional y1 alleles accumulate 3-deoxyflavonoids (3-DFs) and 3-deoxyanthocyanidins (3-DAs) whereas null y1 alleles fail to accumulate these compounds. We found that significantly higher numbers of alate CLA adults colonized null y1 plants as compared to functional y1 plants. Controlled cage experiments and pairwise choice assays demonstrated that apterous aphids preferred to feed and reproduce on null y1 plants. These near-isogenic sorghum lines do not differ in their epicuticular wax content and were also devoid of any leaf trichomes. Significantly higher mortality of CLA was observed on artificial aphid diet supplemented with flavonoids obtained from functional y1 plants as compared to null y1 plants or the relevant controls. Our results demonstrate that the proximate mechanism underlying the deleterious effects on aphids is y1-regulated flavonoids which are important defense compounds against CLA.
High-affinity K+ (HKT) gene family is regulated the transport of Na+ and maintain the balance between Na+ and K+ in the process of plant growth, development and response to abiotic stress. Despite this fact, systemic and comprehensive studies on HKT in multiply plants remains unknown. A total of 29 HKT genes distributed on nine species were identified. Phylogenetic tree analysis results indicated that HKT genes were divided into five homology subfamilies. Combining structural analysis with protein contains five highly conservative motifs, HKT family has similar gene structures and special gene characteristics. Finally, the expression patterns of HKT showed two different dramatic changes in different organs and tissues under different salt stress in multiply plants. This study has many implications for research into the comparative genomics analysis of HTK gene family, which revealed regulation mechanism of HKT genes, is valuable for understanding development and response to abiotic stress in plant.
SbNAC genes (131) encoding 183 proteins were identified from the sorghum genome and characterized. The expression patterns of SbSNACs were evaluated at three sampling time points under post-flowering drought stress. NAC proteins are specific transcription factors in plants, playing vital roles in development and response to various environmental stresses. Despite the fact that Sorghum bicolor is well-known for its drought-tolerance, it suffers from grain yield loss due to pre and post-flowering drought stress. In the present study, 131 SbNAC genes encoding 183 proteins were identified from the sorghum genome. The phylogenetic trees were constructed based on the NAC domains of sorghum, and also based on sorghum with Arabidopsis and 8 known NAC domains of other plants, which classified the family into 15 and 19 subfamilies, respectively. Based on the obtained results, 13 SbNAC proteins joined the SNAC subfamily, and these proteins are expected to be involved in response to abiotic stresses. Promoter analysis revealed that all SbNAC genes comprise different stress-associated cis-elements in their promoters. UTRs analysis indicated that 101 SbNAC transcripts had upstream open reading frames, while 39 of the transcripts had internal ribosome entry sites in their 5'UTR. Moreover, 298 miRNA target sites were predicted to exist in the UTRs of SbNAC transcripts. The expression patterns of SbSNACs were evaluated in three genotypes at three sampling time points under post-flowering drought stress. Based on the results, it could be suggested that some gene members are involved in response to drought stress at the post-flowering stage since they act as positive or negative transcriptional regulators. Following further functional analyses, some of these genes might be perceived to be promising candidates for breeding programs to enhance drought tolerance in crops.
B-box (BBX) proteins play important roles in plant growth regulation and development including photomorphogenesis, photoperiodic regulation of flowering, and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. In the present study we retrieved total 131 BBX members from five Poaceae species including 36 from maize, 30 from rice, 24 from sorghum, 22 from stiff brome, and 19 from Millet. All the BBX genes were grouped into five subfamilies on the basis of their phylogenetic relationships and structural features. The expression profiles of 12 OsBBX genes in different tissues were evaluated through qRT-PCR, and we found that most rice BBX members showed high expression level in the heading stage compared to seedling and booting stages. The expression of OsBBX1, OsBBX2, OsBBX8, OsBBX19, and OsBBX24 was strongly induced by abiotic stresses such as drought, cold and salt stresses. Furthermore, the expression of OsBBX2, OsBBX7, OsBBX17, OsBBX19, and OsBBX24 genes was up-regulated under GA, SA and MeJA hormones at different time points. Similarly, the transcripts level of OsBBX1, OsBBX7, OsBBX8, OsBBX17, and OsBBX19 genes were significantly affected by heavy metals such as Fe, Ni, Cr and Cd. Change in the expression pattern of BBX members in response to abiotic, hormone and heavy metal stresses signifies their potential roles in plant growth and development and in response to multivariate stresses. The findings suggest that BBX genes could be used as potential genetic markers for the plants, particularly in functional analysis and determining their roles under multivariate stresses.
The development of lysigenous aerenchyma starts with cell expansion and degradation of pectin from the middle lamella, leading to cell wall modification, and culminating with cell separation. Here we report that nutritional starvation of sugarcane induced gene expression along sections of the first 5 cm of the root and between treatments. We selected two candidate genes: a RAV transcription factor, from the ethylene response factors superfamily, and an endopolygalacturonase (EPG), a glycosyl hydrolase related to homogalacturonan hydrolysis from the middle lamella. epg1 and rav1 transcriptional patterns suggest they are essential genes at the initial steps of pectin degradation during aerenchyma development in sugarcane. Due to the high complexity of the sugarcane genome, rav1 and epg1 were sequenced from 17 bacterial artificial chromosome clones containing hom(e)ologous genomic regions, and the sequences were compared with those of Sorghum bicolor. We used one hom(e)olog sequence from each gene for transactivation assays in tobacco. rav1 was shown to bind to the epg1 promoter, repressing β-glucuronidase activity. RAV repression upon epg1 transcription is the first reported link between ethylene regulation and pectin hydrolysis during aerenchyma formation. Our findings may help to elucidate cell wall degradation in sugarcane and therefore contribute to second-generation bioethanol production.
Acidic soils, where aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major agricultural constraint, are globally widespread and are prevalent in developing countries. In sorghum, the root citrate transporter SbMATE confers Al tolerance by protecting root apices from toxic Al
The flag leaf of rice (Oryza sativa L.) is an important determinant of plant type characteristics and grain yield. Identification of flag leaf mutants of rice is crucial to elucidate the molecular mechanism of flag-leaf development, and for exploitation of rice germplasm resources. In this study, we describe a mutant designated short and narrow flag leaf 1 (snfl1). Histological analysis showed that the length of epidermal cells and number of longitudinal veins were decreased in the flag leaf of the snfl1 mutant. Map-based cloning indicated that a member of the GATA family of transcription factors is a candidate gene for SNFL1. A single-nucleotide transition at the last base in the single intron of snfl1 led to variation in alternative splicing and early termination of translation. Complemented transgenic plants harbouring the candidate SNFL1 gene rescued the snfl1 mutant. Analysis of RT-PCR and the SNFL1 promoter by means of a GUS fusion expression assay showed that abundance of SNFL1 transcripts was higher in the culm, leaf sheath, and root. Expression of the SNFL1-GFP fusion protein in rice protoplasts showed that SNFL1 was localized in nucleus. We conclude that SNFL1 is an important regulator of leaf development, the identification of which might have important implications for future research on GATA transcription factors.
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a primary limiting factor for crop production in acid soils. Callose deposition, an early indicator and likely a contributor to Al toxicity, is induced rapidly in plant roots under Al stress. SbGlu1, encoding a β-1,3-glucanase for callose degradation, showed important roles in sorghum Al resistance, yet its regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. The STOP1 transcription factors mediate Al signal transduction in various plants. Here, we identified their homolog in sweet sorghum, SbSTOP1, transcriptionally activated the expression of SbGlu1. Moreover, the DNA sequence recognized by SbSTOP1 on the promoter of SbGlu1 lacked the reported cis-acting element. Complementation lines of Atstop1 with SbSTOP1 revealed enhanced transcription levels of SbGlu1 homologous gene and reduced callose accumulation in Arabidopsis. These results indicate, for the first time, that SbSTOP1 is involved in the modulation of callose deposition under Al stress via transcriptional regulation of a β-1,3-glucanase gene.
In Arabidopsis, a long day flowering plant, CONSTANS (CO) acts as a transcriptional activator of flowering under long day (LD) condition. In rice, a short day flowering plant, Hd1, the ortholog of CO, plays dual functions in respond to day-length, activates flowering in short days and represses flowering in long days. In addition, alleles of Hd1 account for ~ 44% of the variation in flowering time observed in cultivated rice and sorghum. How does it work in bamboo? The function of CO in bamboo is similar to that in Arabidopsis? Two CO homologous genes, PvCO1 and PvCO2, in Phyllostachys violascens were identified. Alignment analysis showed that the two PvCOLs had the highest sequence similarity to rice Hd1. Both PvCO1 and PvCO2 expressed in specific tissues, mainly in leaf. The PvCO1 gene had low expression before flowering, high expression during the flowering stage, and then declined to low expression again after flowering. In contrast, expression of PvCO2 was low during the flowering stage, but rapidly increased to a high level after flowering. The mRNA levels of both PvCOs exhibited a diurnal rhythm. Both PvCO1 and PvCO2 proteins were localized in nucleus of cells. PvCO1 could interact with PvGF14c protein which belonged to 14-3-3 gene family through B-box domain. Overexpression of PvCO1 in Arabidopsis significantly caused late flowering by reducing the expression of AtFT, whereas, transgenic plants overexpressing PvCO2 showed a similar flowering time with WT under LD conditions. Taken together, these results suggested that PvCO1 was involved in the flowering regulation, and PvCO2 may either not have a role in regulating flowering or act redundantly with other flowering regulators in Arabidopsis. Our data also indicated regulatory divergence between PvCOLs in Ph. violascens and CO in Arabidopsis as well as Hd1 in Oryza sativa. Our results will provide useful information for elucidating the regulatory mechanism of COLs involved in the flowering. Unlike to the CO gene in Arabidopsis, PvCO1 was a negative regulator of flowering in transgenic Arabidopsis under LD condition. It was likely that long period of vegetative growth of this bamboo species was related with the regulation of PvCO1.
Biotic and abiotic stresses negatively affect fitness, biomass production, and crop yield in plants. The dehydration-responsive element-binding proteins (
Sea-island cotton (Gossypium barbadense) has drawn great attention in the textile industry for its comprehensive resistance and superior fiber properties. However, the mechanisms involved in fiber growth and development are unclear. As TCP transcription factors play important roles in plant growth and development, this study investigated the TCP family genes in G. barbadense (GbTCP). We identified 75 GbTCP genes, of which 68 had no introns. Phylogenetic analyses categorized the GbTCP transcription factors into 11 groups. Genomic analyses showed that 66 genes are located on 21 chromosomes. Phylogenetic analyses of G. arboreum, G. raimondii, G. hirsutum, G. barbadense, Theobroma cacao, Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor, and Zea mays, Picea abies, Sphagnum fallax and Physcomitrella patens, categorized 373 TCP genes into two classes (Classes I and II). By studying the structures of TCP genes in sea-island cotton, we identified genes from the same evolutionary branches that showed similar motif patterns. qRT-PCR results suggested that the GbTCPs had different expression patterns in fibers at various developmental stages of cotton, with several showing specific expression patterns during development. This report helps lay the foundation for future investigations of TCP functions and molecular mechanisms in sea-island cotton fiber development.
The morphological and functional diversity of plant form is governed by dynamic gene regulatory networks. In cereal crops, grain and/or pollen-bearing inflorescences exhibit vast architectural diversity and developmental complexity, yet the underlying genetic framework is only partly known.
Pith parenchyma cells store water in various plant organs. These cells are especially important for producing sugar and ethanol from the sugar juice of grass stems. In many plants, the death of pith parenchyma cells reduces their stem water content. Previous studies proposed that a hypothetical
The study investigated the effect of extruded sorghum flour (ESF) in a high fat diet (HFD) on biometric measurements and hepatic lipogenesis. Male Wistar rats were fed a normal diet (AIN-93M), HFD, HFD plus ESF replacing 50% cellulose and 100% corn starch (HFDS50), or HFD plus ESF replacing 100% cellulose and 100% corn starch (HFDS100) for eight weeks. ESF reduced the body mass index and liver weight of obese rats. Additionally, ESF reduced hepatic lipogenesis by increasing adiponectin 2 receptor gene expression and gene and protein expressions of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα), while reducing the gene expression of sterol regulatory element-binding transcription factor 1. Molecular docking analysis revealed the affinity of ESF compounds (luteolinidin, apigeninidin, 5-methoxy-luteolinidin, and 7-methoxy-apigeninidin) with the PPAR-α receptor. Histological analysis confirmed the decreased grade of hepatic steatosis in obese rats. These data indicate the potential of ESF to reduce metabolic risk of hepatic steatosis associated with lipogenesis and obesity.
The CONSTANS-LIKE (COL) gene has an important role both in regulation flowering through photoperiodic control and response to abiotic stress. In the present study, we performed a genome-wide analysis of maize COL gene family and identified 19 non-redundant ZmCOL genes, which were unequally distributed on ten maize chromosomes. Analysis of compound phylogenetic tree (maize, sorghum, rice and Arabidopsis) showed high bootstrap, as well as conserved domain and semblable gene structures among members within the same clade, revealing that COL genes in same clade were from the common ancestral and prior to the divergence of monocots and dicots lineages. Calculation of Ka/Ks ratio demonstrated that most duplicated ZmCOLs experienced purifying selection, which suggested limited functional divergence after duplication events. Comparing interspecies gene collinearity between three major grasses species, extensive microsynteny was detected among maize, sorghum and rice COL-containing segments. Additionally, several light-responsive and one ABA-responsive cis-elements could be detected for ZmCOL genes in group A. Therefore, qRT-PCR was performed to explore the expression patterns of ZmCOL genes in group A under light/dark conditions and ABA treatment. Our results laid the foundation for functional characterization of ZmCOL proteins and uncovering the biological roles of COL genes in response to stress in future.
Ultraviolet irradiation-induced hyperpigmentation of the skin is associated with excessive melanin production in melanocytes. Tyrosinase (TYR) is a key enzyme catalyzing the rate-limiting step in melanogenesis. TYR expression is controlled by microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) expression. Sorghum is a cereal crop widely used in a variety of foods worldwide. Sorghum contains many bioactive compounds and is beneficial to human health. However, the effects of sorghum in anti-melanogenesis have not been well characterized. In this study, the biological activity of sorghum ethanolic extract (SEE) on α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-MSH)-induced TYR expression was evaluated in B16F10 melanoma cells. SEE attenuated α-MSH-induced
HD-Zip proteins represent the major transcription factors in higher plants, playing essential roles in plant development and stress responses. Foxtail millet is a crop to investigate the systems biology of millet and biofuel grasses and the HD-Zip gene family has not been studied in foxtail millet. For further investigation of the expression profile of the HD-Zip gene family in foxtail millet, a comprehensive genome-wide expression analysis was conducted in this study. We found 47 protein-encoding genes in foxtail millet using BLAST search tools; the putative proteins were classified into four subfamilies, namely, subfamilies I, II, III, and IV. Gene structure and motif analysis indicate that the genes in one subfamily were conserved. Promotor analysis showed that HD-Zip gene was involved in abiotic stress. Duplication analysis revealed that 8 (~17%) hdz genes were tandemly duplicated and 28 (58%) were segmentally duplicated; purifying duplication plays important roles in gene expansion. Microsynteny analysis revealed the maximum relationship in foxtail millet-sorghum and foxtail millet-rice. Expression profiling upon the abiotic stresses of drought and high salinity and the biotic stress of ABA revealed that some genes regulated responses to drought and salinity stresses via an ABA-dependent process, especially
Grain number per panicle (GNP) is a major determinant of grain yield in cereals. However, the mechanisms that regulate GNP remain unclear. To address this issue, we isolate a series of sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] multiseeded (msd) mutants that can double GNP by increasing panicle size and altering floral development so that all spikelets are fertile and set grain. Through bulk segregant analysis by next-generation sequencing, we identify MSD1 as a TCP (Teosinte branched/Cycloidea/PCF) transcription factor. Whole-genome expression profiling reveals that jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthetic enzymes are transiently activated in pedicellate spikelets. Young msd1 panicles have 50% less JA than wild-type (WT) panicles, and application of exogenous JA can rescue the msd1 phenotype. Our results reveal a new mechanism for increasing GNP, with the potential to boost grain yield, and provide insight into the regulation of plant inflorescence architecture and development.
The present study identified several important candidate Pi regulation genes of maize and provides a better understanding on the generation of PHR genes in gramineous plants. Plants have evolved adaptive responses to cope with low phosphate (Pi) soils. The previous studies have indicated that phosphate starvation response (PHR) genes play central roles in regulating plant Pi starvation responses. However, the investigation of PHR family in gramineous plants is limited. In this study, we identified 64 PHR genes in four gramineous plants, including maize, rice, sorghum, and brachypodium, and conducted systematical analyses on phylogenetic, structure, collinearity, and expression pattern of these PHR genes. Genome synteny analysis revealed that a number of PHR genes were present in the corresponding syntenic blocks of maize, rice, sorghum, and brachypodium, indicating that large-scale duplication events contributed significantly to the expansion and evolution of PHR genes in these gramineous plants. Gene expression analysis showed that many PHR genes were expressed in various tissues, suggesting that these genes are involved in Pi redistribution and allocation. In addition, the expression levels of PHR genes from maize and rice under low Pi stress conditions revealed that some PHRs may play an important role in Pi starvation response. Our results provided a better understanding on the generation of PHR genes in gramineous plants and identified several important candidate Pi regulation genes of maize.
Maize (Zea mays L.) displays an exceptional degree of structural genomic diversity [1, 2]. In addition, variation in gene expression further contributes to the extraordinary phenotypic diversity and plasticity of maize. This study provides a systematic investigation on how distantly related homozygous maize inbred lines affect the transcriptomic plasticity of their highly heterozygous F
Chilling temperatures (0 to 15°C) are a major constraint for temperate cultivation of tropical-origin crops, including the cereal crop sorghum ( [L.] Moench). Northern Chinese sorghums have adapted to early-season chilling, but molecular mechanisms of chilling tolerance are unknown. We used RNA sequencing of seedlings to compare the chilling-responsive transcriptomes of a chilling-tolerant Chinese accession with a chilling-sensitive US reference line, and mass spectrometry to compare chilling-responsive lipidomes of four chilling-tolerant Chinese accessions with two US reference lines. Comparative transcriptomics revealed chilling-induced up-regulation of cold-response regulator C-repeat binding factor (CBF) transcription factor and genes involved in reactive oxygen detoxification, jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthesis, and lipid remodeling phospholipase Dα1 (α) gene in the chilling-tolerant Chinese line. Lipidomics revealed conserved chilling-induced increases in lipid unsaturation, as well as lipid remodeling of photosynthetic membranes that is specific to chilling-tolerant Chinese accessions. Our results point to CBF-mediated transcriptional regulation, galactolipid and phospholipid remodeling, and JA as potential molecular mechanisms underlying chilling adaptation in Chinese sorghums. These molecular systems underlying chilling response could be targeted in molecular breeding for chilling tolerance.
Secondary walls are the most abundant biomass produced by plants, and they consist mainly of lignin, cellulose and hemicellulose. Understanding how secondary wall biosynthesis is regulated could potentially provide genetic tools for engineering biomass components, especially in maize and Sorghum bicolor. Although many works have focused on secondary wall biosynthesis in dicotyledons, little has been reported for these monocotyledons. In this study, we cloned two NAC transcriptional factor genes, ZmNST3 and ZmNST4, and analyzed their functions in maize secondary wall formation process. ZmNST3 and ZmNST4 were expressed specifically in secondary wall-forming cells, expression of ZmNST3/4 can restore the pendent phenotype of Arabidopsis nst1nst3 double mutant. ZmNST3/4-overexpressing Arabidopsis and maize displayed a thickened secondary wall in the stem, and knockdown maize showed defective secondary wall deposition. ZmNST3/4 could regulate the expression of ZmMYB109/128/149. Our results revealed that ZmNST3/4 are master switches of the maize secondary wall biosynthesis process and provides new evidence that the secondary wall regulatory pathway is conserved in different plant species.
Aberrant inflammation as a result of activation of the transmembrane protein Toll-like receptor 4 belonging to pattern recognition receptor and subsequent phosphorylation of signaling proteins facilitated by reactive oxygen species has been linked to a myriad of diseases. Sorghum is a drought-resistant cereal with health promoting properties associated with its biologically active substances such as kafirin. Kafirin is an alcohol soluble protein and accounts for as much as 70% of the total proteins in sorghum. The objective was to determine the effect of kafirin on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammation in THP-1 human macrophages. THP-1 human monocytic leukemia cells were differentiated into macrophages by phorbol-12-myristate 13-acetate followed by treatment of LPS with or without 50 μg/mL or 100 μg/mL concentrations of kafirin. Kafirin at 100 μg/mL reduced the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α by 28.3%, 74.0%, and 81.4%, respectively. Kafirin reduced production of intracellular reactive oxygen species is associated with reduced phosphorylation of extracellular regulated kinase1/2 and c-JUN N-terminal kinase and nuclear translocation of p65 and c-JUN transcription factors. Our results showed for the first time the anti-inflammatory property of kafirin purified from sorghum in LPS-induced THP-1 human macrophages.
This work provides the bioinformatics, expression pattern and functional analyses of cryptochrome 1a from sweet sorghum (SbCRY1a), together with an exploration of the signaling mechanism mediated by SbCRY1a. Sweet sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] is considered to be an ideal candidate for biofuel production due to its high efficiency of photosynthesis and the ability to maintain yield under harsh environmental conditions. Blue light receptor cryptochromes regulate multiple aspects of plant growth and development. Here, we reported the function and signal mechanism of sweet sorghum cryptochrome 1a (SbCRY1a) to explore its potential for genetic improvement of sweet sorghum varieties. SbCRY1a transcripts experienced almost 24 h diurnal cycling; however, its protein abundance showed no oscillation. Overexpression of SbCRY1a in Arabidopsis rescued the phenotype of cry1 mutant in a blue light-specific manner and regulated HY5 accumulation under blue light. SbCRY1a protein was present in both nucleus and cytoplasm. The photoexcited SbCRY1a interacted directly with a putative RING E3 ubiquitin ligase constitutive photomorphogenesis 1 (COP1) from sweet sorghum (SbCOP1) instead of SbSPA1 to suppress SbCOP1-SbHY5 interaction responding to blue light. These observations indicate that the function and signaling mechanism of cryptochromes are basically conservative between monocotyledons and dicotyledons. Moreover, SbCRY1a-overexpressed transgenic Arabidopsis showed oversensitive to abscisic acid (ABA) and salinity. The ABA-responsive gene ABI5 was up-regulated evidently in SbCRY1a transgenic lines, suggesting that SbCRY1a might regulate ABA signaling through the HY5-ABI5 regulon.
Colonic effects of extruded whole-grain sorghum diets were evaluated using a model of growing rats. In all, twenty-four male Wistar rats were fed control (C), extruded white sorghum (EWS) or red sorghum (ERS). Consumption of sorghum diets showed satiety properties, with reduction of caecal pH, and lower activity of β-glucosidase and β-glucuronidase enzymes. Decreased copper zinc superoxide dismutase and manganese superoxide dismutase and increased catalase and glutathione peroxidase levels were observed in colonic mucosa. The induction of antioxidant enzymes occurred through the activation of the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 protein and its subsequent translocation into the nucleus. ERS was able to decrease the proliferation of proximal mucosa of colon, demonstrating a possible effect against colorectal tumourigenesis. EWS increased proliferation and also apoptosis, ensuring the re-establishment of homoeostasis of the colonic mucosa. No antioxidant systemic effect (serum or hepatic level) was observed. It is likely that despite the extrusion the low bioavailability of the phenolic compounds of sorghum diets caused them to exert mainly acute effects at the colon level. Extruded whole-grain sorghum is a good functional ingredient that might be promising in dietary prevention of intestinal diseases.
MYB transcription factors are widespread in plants and play key roles in plant development. Although MYB transcription factors have been thoroughly characterized in many plants, genome-wide analysis of the MYB gene family has not yet been undertaken in Brachypodium distachyon. In this study, 122 BdMYB transcription factors were identified, comprising 85 MYB-R2R3, 34 MYB-related and three MYB-R1R2R3. Phylogenetic analysis showed that BdMYBs, OsMYBs and AtMYBs with similar functions were clustered in the same subgroup, and the phylogenetic relationships of BdMYB transcription factors were supported by highly conserved motifs and gene structures. Two cis-elements were found in the promoters of BdMYB genes. One is related to plant growth/development, the other is related to stress responses. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis indicated that most of the BdMYB genes are involved in various biological processes. The chromosome distribution pattern strongly indicated that genome-wide tandem and segment duplication mainly contributed to the expansion of the BdMYB gene family. Synteny analysis showed that 56, 58 and 61 BdMYB genes were orthologous to rice, maize and sorghum, respectively. We further demonstrated that BdMYB genes have evolved under strong purifying selection. The expression profiles indicated that most BdMYB genes might participate in floral development and respond to abiotic stresses. Additionally, 338 pairs of proteins were predicted to interact by constructing the interaction network. This work laid the foundation and provided clues for understanding the biological functions of these transcription factors.
As a superfamily of transcription factors (TFs), the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins have been characterized functionally in many plants with a vital role in the regulation of diverse biological processes including growth, development, response to various stresses, and so on. However, no systemic analysis of the bHLH TFs has been reported in Brachypodium distachyon, an emerging model plant in Poaceae. A total of 146 bHLH TFs were identified in the Brachypodium distachyon genome and classified into 24 subfamilies. BdbHLHs in the same subfamily share similar protein motifs and gene structures. Gene duplication events showed a close relationship to rice, maize and sorghum, and segment duplications might play a key role in the expansion of this gene family. The amino acid sequence of the bHLH domains were quite conservative, especially Leu-27 and Leu-54. Based on the predicted binding activities, the BdbHLHs were divided into DNA binding and non-DNA binding types. According to the gene ontology (GO) analysis, BdbHLHs were speculated to function in homodimer or heterodimer manner. By integrating the available high throughput data in public database and results of quantitative RT-PCR, we found the expression profiles of BdbHLHs were different, implying their differentiated functions. One hundred fourty-six BdbHLHs were identified and their conserved domains, sequence features, phylogenetic relationship, chromosomal distribution, GO annotations, gene structures, gene duplication and expression profiles were investigated. Our findings lay a foundation for further evolutionary and functional elucidation of BdbHLH genes.
Discriminatory co-expression of maize BBM and WUS transcriptional factor genes promoted somatic embryogenesis and efficient Agrobacterium -mediated transformation of recalcitrant maize inbred B73 and sorghum P898012 genotypes without use of a selectable marker gene. The use of morphogenic regulators to overcome barriers in plant transformation is a revolutionary breakthrough for basic plant science and crop applications. Current standard plant transformation systems are bottlenecks for genetic, genomic, and crop improvement studies. We investigated the differential use of co-expression of maize transcription factors BABY BOOM and WUSCHEL2 coupled with a desiccation inducible CRE/lox excision system to enable regeneration of stable transgenic recalcitrant maize inbred B73 and sorghum P898012 without a chemical selectable marker. The PHP78891 expression cassette contains CRE driven by the drought inducible maize RAB17
Members of the basic leucine zipper family, as bZIP19, are considered to be essential regulators of the adaptation to zinc deficiency. Knowing that this gene as well as its targets are conserved in the plant kingdom, we followed an in silico approach to identify and characterize the bzip19 gene in cereals. Through BLASTp in Phytozome database, 33 bzip19 genes were identified on the genomes of Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor, Zea mays, Glycine max, Triticum aestivum, and Brachypodium distachyon. The analysis of conserved motifs and bZIP domains was performed using MEME and PFAM databases. In 25 of these genes, CysHis-motifs at the basic N-terminal region were found. This motif is conserved in group bZIP and suggested to play a role as a Zn-sensor. Regarding their phylogeny, it was possible to infer orthologous groups and explore the evolutionary relationship between these BZIP19 proteins. Data mining allowed us to select eight putative orthologous whose expression profile was analyzed under stress conditions in the Genevestigator platform. The comparison between the expression profiles of these eight putative orthologous and the original Arabidopsis bzip19 also seems to indicate conserved transcriptional regulation. Thus, considering that modified expression of bZIP19 genes has already been confirmed as an efficient tool to improve Arabidopsis tolerance to Zn deficiency, and that these new bZIP orthologous have a high level of conservation when compared to the original bZIP19 sequence, they can be useful for the development of tolerant crops enabling plants to grow in areas of low zinc bioavailability.
Sugarcane, one of the most photosynthetically efficient crops, is an important source of sugar and feedstock for green energy and co-generation. The high level of polyploidy and genomic peculiarities in this crop point towards a complex mechanism of regulation for the economically important traits like sugar content, cane yield related traits, resistance to biotic and abiotic stresses etc. The regulatory pathways for these traits comprise of a number of genes, transcription factors and different categories of RNAs like small interference RNAs (siRNAs), and Micro RNAs (miRNAs). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are found to play an important regulatory role in many crops. As in other crops, several miRNAs have been identified in sugarcane too and these are speculated to have a role in regulating the various metabolic processes. Role of miRNAs in relation to drought tolerance has been studied to a great extent in this crop. miRNAs have been predicted to be linked to expression of other traits like disease resistance, salinity tolerance, waterlogging and axillary bud growth in sugarcane. miRNAs can have a significant role in biomass production in sugarcane, as reported in several biofuel crops. Till now, miRNAs linked to sugar accumulation have not been identified in sugarcane, but studies suggest an important role for miRNAs in sugar metabolic pathway in crops like
Bioenergy sorghum accumulates 75% of shoot biomass in stem internodes. Grass stem internodes are formed during vegetative growth and elongate in response to developmental and environmental signals. To identify genes and molecular mechanisms that modulate the extent of internode growth, we conducted microscopic and transcriptomic analyses of four successive sub-apical vegetative internodes representing different stages of internode development of the bioenergy sorghum genotype R.07020. Stem internodes of sorghum genotype R.07020 are formed during the vegetative phase and their length is enhanced by environmental signals such as shade and floral induction in short days. During vegetative growth, the first visible and youngest sub-apical internode was ~0.7 cm in length, whereas the fourth fully expanded internode was ~5 cm in length. Microscopic analyses revealed that all internode tissue types including pith parenchyma and vascular bundles are present in the four successive internodes. Growth in the first two sub-apical internodes occurred primarily through an increase in cell number consistent with expression of genes involved in the cell cycle and DNA replication. Growth of the 3rd internode was associated with an increase in cell length and growth cessation in the 4th internode was associated with up-regulation of genes involved in secondary cell wall deposition. The expression of genes involved in hormone metabolism and signaling indicates that GA, BR, and CK activity decreased while ethylene, ABA, and JA increased in the 3rd/4th internodes. While the level of auxin appears to be increasing as indicated by the up-regulation of ARFs, down-regulation of TIR during development indicates that auxin signaling is also modified. The expression patterns of transcription factors are closely associated with their role during the development of the vegetative internodes. Microscopic and transcriptome analyses of four successive sub-apical internodes characterized the developmental progression of vegetative stem internodes from initiation through full elongation in the sorghum genotype R.07020. Transcriptome profiling indicates that dynamic variation in the levels and action of GA, CK, IAA, BR, ethylene, ABA, and JA modulate gene expression and growth during internode growth and development. This study provides detailed microscopic and transcriptomic data useful for identifying genes and molecular pathways regulating internode elongation in response to various developmental and environmental signals.
Laccase is a key enzyme in plant lignin biosynthesis as it catalyzes the final step of monolignols polymerization. Sweet sorghum [
The B-box proteins play key roles in plant development. The double B-box (DBB) family is one of the subfamily of the B-box family, with two B-box domains and without a CCT domain. In this study, 12 maize double B-box genes (ZmDBBs) were identified through a genome-wide survey. Phylogenetic analysis of DBB proteins from maize, rice, Sorghum bicolor, Arabidopsis, and poplar classified them into five major clades. Gene duplication analysis indicated that segmental duplications made a large contribution to the expansion of ZmDBBs. Furthermore, a large number of cis-acting regulatory elements related to plant development, response to light and phytohormone were identified in the promoter regions of the ZmDBB genes. The expression patterns of the ZmDBB genes in various tissues and different developmental stages demonstrated that ZmDBBs might play essential roles in plant development, and some ZmDBB genes might have unique function in specific developmental stages. In addition, several ZmDBB genes showed diurnal expression pattern. The expression levels of some ZmDBB genes changed significantly under light/dark treatment conditions and phytohormone treatments, implying that they might participate in light signaling pathway and hormone signaling. Our results will provide new information to better understand the complexity of the DBB gene family in maize.
Anthurium amnicola Dressler possesses a number of desirable and novel ornamental traits such as a purple-colored upright spathe, profuse flowering, and floral scent, some of which have been introgressed into modern Anthurium cultivars. As a first step in identifying genes associated with these traits, the transcriptome from root, leaf, spathe, and spadix from an accession of A. amnicola was assembled, resulting in 28,019 putative transcripts representing 19,458 unigenes. Genes involved in pigmentation, including those for the metabolism of chlorophyll and the biosynthesis of carotenoids, phenylpropanoids, and flavonoids were identified. The expression levels of one MYB transcription factor was highly correlated with naringenin 3-dioxygenase (F3H) and dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) in leaves, whereas a bHLH transcription factor was highly correlated with flavonoid 3'-monooxygenase (F3'H) and a DFR in spathes, suggesting that these two transcription factors might regulate flavonoid and anthocyanin synthesis in A. amnicola. Gene sequence and expression data from four major organs of A. amnicola provide novel basal information for understanding the genetic bases of ornamental traits and the determinants and evolution of form and function in the Araceae.
We have demonstrated that polyphenol-rich sorghum bran diets alter fecal microbiota; however, little is known regarding their effect on colon inflammation. Our aim was to characterize the effect of sorghum bran diets on intestinal homeostasis during dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (
Aphid infestation of switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) has the potential to reduce yields and biomass quality. Although switchgrass-greenbug (Schizaphis graminum; GB) interactions have been studied at the whole plant level, little information is available on plant defense responses at the molecular level. The global transcriptomic response of switchgrass cv Summer to GB was monitored by RNA-Seq in infested and control (uninfested) plants harvested at 5, 10, and 15 days after infestation (DAI). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in infested plants were analyzed relative to control uninfested plants at each time point. DEGs in GB-infested plants induced by 5-DAI included an upregulation of reactive burst oxidases and several cell wall receptors. Expression changes in genes linked to redox metabolism, cell wall structure, and hormone biosynthesis were also observed by 5-DAI. At 10-DAI, network analysis indicated a massive upregulation of defense-associated genes, including NAC, WRKY, and MYB classes of transcription factors and potential ancillary signaling molecules such as leucine aminopeptidases. Molecular evidence for loss of chloroplastic functions was also detected at this time point. Supporting these molecular changes, chlorophyll content was significantly decreased, and ROS levels were elevated in infested plants 10-DAI. Total peroxidase and laccase activities were elevated in infested plants at 10-DAI relative to control uninfested plants. The net result appeared to be a broad scale defensive response that led to an apparent reduction in C and N assimilation and a potential redirection of nutrients away from GB and towards the production of defensive compounds, such as pipecolic acid, chlorogenic acid, and trehalose by 10-DAI. By 15-DAI, evidence of recovery in primary metabolism was noted based on transcript abundances for genes associated with carbon, nitrogen, and nutrient assimilation. Extensive remodeling of the plant transcriptome and the production of ROS and several defensive metabolites in an upland switchgrass cultivar were observed in response to GB feeding. The early loss and apparent recovery in primary metabolism by 15-DAI would suggest that these transcriptional changes in later stages of GB infestation could underlie the recovery response categorized for this switchgrass cultivar. These results can be exploited to develop switchgrass lines with more durable resistance to GB and potentially other aphids.
Seminal roots of maize are pivotal for early seedling establishment. The maize mutant rootless concerning crown and seminal roots (rtcs) is defective in seminal root initiation during embryogenesis. In this study, the transcriptomes of wild-type and rtcs embryos were analyzed by RNA-Seq based on histological results at three stages of seminal root primordia formation. Hierarchical clustering highlighted that samples of each genotype grouped together along development. Determination of their gene activity status revealed hundreds of genes specifically transcribed in wild-type or rtcs embryos, while K-mean clustering revealed changes in gene expression dynamics between wild-type and rtcs during embryo development. Pairwise comparisons of rtcs and wild-type embryo transcriptomes identified 131 transcription factors among 3526 differentially expressed genes [false discovery rate (FDR) <5% and |log2Fc|≥1]. Among those, functional annotation highlighted genes involved in cell cycle control and phytohormone action, particularly auxin signaling. Moreover, in silico promoter analyses identified putative RTCS target genes associated with transcription factor action and hormone metabolism and signaling. Significantly, non-syntenic genes that emerged after the separation of maize and sorghum were over-represented among genes displaying RTCS-dependent expression during seminal root primordia formation. This might suggest that these non-syntenic genes came under the transcriptional control of the syntenic gene rtcs during seminal root evolution. Taken together, this study provides first insights into the molecular framework underlying seminal root initiation in maize and provides a starting point for further investigations of the molecular networks underlying RTCS-dependent seminal root initiation.
Cereals and legumes are traditionally consumed together in many cultures, and may provide complementary health benefits beyond what is known about improved indispensable amino acid intake. Here, we use an in vitro model of inflammatory pathways to investigate whether the different flavonoids in sorghum and cowpea could synergistically reduce inflammation. Interactive effect of combining apigenin and quercetin, as well as extracts (70% acetone, v/v) from a flavone-dominated white sorghum and flavonol-dominated white cowpea, against LPS-induced NF-κB and downstream cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8) gene and protein expression was evaluated using the CCD18Co colon myofibroblasts. Combination of apigenin and quercetin, and sorghum and cowpea extracts synergistically downregulated LPS-induced NF-κB gene and protein expression in a dose-dependent manner, with additive effect producing IC Combining the structurally related cereal flavones and legume flavonols elicit strong synergistic anti-inflammatory response in LPS-stimulated nonmalignant colonocytes, likely by targeting interdependent mechanisms.
From cold-treated HcDREB2, a stress-inducible but ABA-independent transcription factor gene, can transactivate downstream genes by binding to the DRE cis-element. The current results are a foundation for making use of this stress tolerance gene in future
Colletotrichum graminicola and C. sublineola cause anthracnose leaf and stalk diseases of maize and sorghum, respectively. In spite of their close evolutionary relationship, the two species are completely host-specific. Host specificity is often attributed to pathogen virulence factors, including specialized secondary metabolites (SSM), and small-secreted protein (SSP) effectors. Genes relevant to these categories were manually annotated in two co-occurring, contemporaneous strains of C. graminicola and C. sublineola. A comparative genomic and phylogenetic analysis was performed to address the evolutionary relationships among these and other divergent gene families in the two strains. Inoculation of maize with C. sublineola, or of sorghum with C. graminicola, resulted in rapid plant cell death at, or just after, the point of penetration. The two fungal genomes were very similar. More than 50% of the assemblies could be directly aligned, and more than 80% of the gene models were syntenous. More than 90% of the predicted proteins had orthologs in both species. Genes lacking orthologs in the other species (non-conserved genes) included many predicted to encode SSM-associated proteins and SSPs. Other common groups of non-conserved proteins included transporters, transcription factors, and CAZymes. Only 32 SSP genes appeared to be specific to C. graminicola, and 21 to C. sublineola. None of the SSM-associated genes were lineage-specific. Two different strains of C. graminicola, and three strains of C. sublineola, differed in no more than 1% percent of gene sequences from one another. Efficient non-host recognition of C. sublineola by maize, and of C. graminicola by sorghum, was observed in epidermal cells as a rapid deployment of visible resistance responses and plant cell death. Numerous non-conserved SSP and SSM-associated predicted proteins that could play a role in this non-host recognition were identified. Additional categories of genes that were also highly divergent suggested an important role for co-evolutionary adaptation to specific host environmental factors, in addition to aspects of initial recognition, in host specificity. This work provides a foundation for future functional studies aimed at clarifying the roles of these proteins, and the possibility of manipulating them to improve management of these two economically important diseases.
Atrazine (ATR) is an herbicide broadly used in the world to control weeds in corn and sorghum fields, and it is potentially toxic for the dopaminergic system. Alterations in dopaminergic markers after ATR administration in rats and C57BL/6 mice have been reported. Behaviorally, it has been observed that ATR exposure causes hypoactivity shortly after its administration. To understand how acute ATR administration induces hypoactivity, we set out to map the brain areas responsive to ATR using c-Fos as a marker of neuronal activity, and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) as a marker of dopaminergic neurons. The levels of glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were measured using high performance liquid chromatography, and spontaneous locomotor activity was evaluated as well. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received a systemic injection of 1% methyl cellulose (vehicle) or 100mg ATR/kg body weight to evaluate locomotor activity immediately after injection, c-Fos and TH immunohistochemistry in forebrain, midbrain and hindbrain, or glutamate and GABA content in various brain areas 90min after injection. To assess the possible involvement of the GABAergic system on ATR effects we tested the effects of a GABA-B antagonist. We found statistically significant decreases in locomotor activity, which were partially reversed by the GABA-B antagonist, and increases in the number of c-Fos-positive cells in thalamus, central amygdala, subthalamic nucleus, superior colliculus, and substantia nigra, TH positive cells were not selectively activated by ATR. The acute administration of ATR did not affect GABA or glutamate tissue levels but significantly decreased locomotor activity. These results corroborate the hypoactivity-inducing effect of ATR, and show that non-dopaminergic cells respond to the acute administration of ATR. The activation of cell populations in the basal ganglia and their target nuclei may contribute to the acute behavioral effects of ATR.
Dof (DNA binding with one finger) proteins, which constitute a class of transcription factors found exclusively in plants, are involved in numerous physiological and biochemical reactions affecting growth and development. A genome-wide analysis of SiDof genes was performed in this study. Thirty five SiDof genes were identified and those genes were unevenly distributed across nine chromosomes in the Seteria italica genome. Protein lengths, molecular weights, and theoretical isoelectric points of SiDofs all vary greatly. Gene structure analysis demonstrated that most SiDof genes lack introns. Phylogenetic analysis of SiDof proteins and Dof proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana, rice, sorghum, and Setaria viridis revealed six major groups. Analysis of RNA-Seq data indicated that SiDof gene expression levels varied across roots, stems, leaves, and spike. In addition, expression profiling of SiDof genes in response to stress suggested that SiDof 7 and SiDof 15 are involved in drought stress signalling. Overall, this study could provide novel information on SiDofs for further investigation in foxtail millet.
Comparisons between C We report the assembly of the nuclear and chloroplast genomes of D. oligosanthes, from high-throughput short read sequencing data and a comparative transcriptomics analysis of the developing leaf of D. oligosanthes, S. viridis, and S. bicolor. Physiological and anatomical characterizations verified that D. oligosanthes utilizes the C The phylogenetic location of D. oligosanthes makes it an ideal C
This piece of the submission is being sent via mail. Leaf senescence is essential for the nutrient economy of crops and is executed by so-called senescence-associated genes (SAGs). Here we explored the monocot C
The F-box protein 7 (FBXO7) mutations have been identified in families with early-onset parkinsonism and pyramidal tract signs, and designated as PARK15. In addition, FBXO7 mutations were found in typical and young onset Parkinson's disease (PD). Evidence has also shown that FBXO7 plays an important role in the development of dopaminergic neurons and increased stability and overexpression of FBXO7 may be beneficial to PD. We screened extracts of medicinal herbs to enhance FBXO7 expression for neuroprotection in MPP Promoter reporter assay in HEK-293 cells was used to examine the cis/trans elements controlling FBXO7 expression and to screen extracts of medicinal herbs enhancing FBXO7 expression. MTT assay was performed to assess cell viability of MPP We demonstrated that -202--57 region of the FBXO7 promoter is likely to contain sequences that are bound by positive trans protein factors to activate FBXO7 expression and GATA2 is the main trans protein factor enhancing FBXO7 expression. Extracts of medicinal herbs Oenanthe javanica (Blume) DC. (Umbelliferae), Casuarina equisetifolia L. (Casuarinaceae), and Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench (Gramineae) improved cell viability of both MPP Collectively, our study provides new targets, FBXO7 and its regulator GATA2, for the development of potential treatments of PD.
Jasmonic acid (JA) signaling pathway in plants is activated against various developmental processes as well as biotic and abiotic stresses. The Jasmonate ZIM-domain (JAZ) protein family, the key regulator of plant JA signaling pathway, also participates in phytohormone crosstalk. This is the first study revealing the in vivo interactions of finger millet (Eleusine coracana (L.) Gaertn.) JAZ protein (EcJAZ) under methyl jasmonate (MJ) treatment. The aim of the study was to explore not only the JA signaling pathway but also the phytohormone signaling crosstalk of finger millet, a highly important future crop. From the MJ-treated finger millet seedlings, the EcJAZ interacting proteins were purified by affinity chromatography with the EcJAZ-matrix. Twenty-one proteins of varying functionalities were successfully identified by MALDI-TOF-TOF Mass spectrometry. Apart from the previously identified JAZ binding proteins, most prominently, EcJAZ was found to interact with transcription factors like NAC, GATA and also with Cold responsive protein (COR), etc. that might have extended the range of functionalities of JAZ proteins. Moreover, to evaluate the interactions of EcJAZ in the JA-co-receptor complex, we generated ten in-silico models containing the EcJAZ degron and the COI1-SKP1 of five monocot cereals viz., rice, wheat, maize, Sorghum and Setaria with JA-Ile or coronatine. Our results indicated that the EcJAZ protein of finger millet could act as the signaling hub for the JA and other phytohormone signaling pathways, in response to a diverse set of stressors and developmental cues to provide survival fitness to the plant.
SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING PROTEIN-box (SBP-box) family genes encoding plant-specific transcription factors are involved in many aspects of crop genetic improvement such as yield, plant-type and stress-resistance. The SBP-box gene family have important practical applications. In this study, 18 SBP-box genes were identified from the reference genome of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) using bioinformatics. These genes distributed on nine chromosomes while eight of them located in the segmental duplication region. Phylogenetic reconstruction resulted in six subfamilies of SBP-box genes, among which SbSBP12, SbSBP3 and SbSBP15 are orthologous to ZmLG1, ZmTGA1 and ZmUB2/3 in corn, respectively. RNA-seq data analysis indicated that SbSBP-box genes show the highest expression level in primordial inflorescences. Moreover, SbSBP9 and SbSBP17 exhibited a tissue specific expression in primordial inflorescences. The expression levels of SbSBP5, SbSBP8 and SbSBP18 were increased in response to exogenous ABA and PEG,indicating that SbSBP-box genes are involved in the defense response against abiotic stresses in sorghum. This research provides references for cloning important genes in SbSBP-box gene family. Genes identified in this study could be considered as candidate genes for genetic improvement of sorghum.
The productivity of maize (Zea mays L.) depends on the development of chloroplasts, and G2-like transcription factors play a central role in regulating chloroplast development. In this study, we identified 59 G2-like genes in the B73 maize genome and systematically analyzed these genes at the molecular and evolutionary levels. Based on gene structure character, motif compositions and phylogenetic analysis, maize G2-like genes (ZmG1- ZmG59) were divided into seven groups (I-VII). By synteny analysis, 18 collinear gene pairs and strongly conserved microsyntny among regions hosting G2-like genes across maize and sorghum were found. Here, we showed that the vast majority of ZmG gene duplications resulted from whole genome duplication events rather than tandem duplications. After gene duplication events, some ZmG genes were silenced. The functions of G2-like genes were multifarious and most genes that are expressed in green tissues may relate to maize photosynthesis. The qRT-PCR showed that the expression of these genes was sensitive to low temperature and drought. Furthermore, we analyzed differences of ZmGs specific to cultivars in temperate and tropical regions at the population level. Interestingly, the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis revealed that nucleotide polymorphism associated with different temperature zones. Above all, G2-like genes were highly conserved during evolution, but polymorphism could be caused due to a different geographical location. Moreover, G2-like genes might be related to cold and drought stresses.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench) has excellent agronomic traits and biological properties, such as heat and drought-tolerance. It is a C4 grass and potential bioenergy-producing plant, which makes it an important crop worldwide. With the sorghum genome sequence released, it is essential to establish a sorghum functional genomics data mining platform. We collected genomic data and some functional annotations to construct a sorghum functional genomics database (SorghumFDB). SorghumFDB integrated knowledge of sorghum gene family classifications (transcription regulators/factors, carbohydrate-active enzymes, protein kinases, ubiquitins, cytochrome P450, monolignol biosynthesis related enzymes, R-genes and organelle-genes), detailed gene annotations, miRNA and target gene information, orthologous pairs in the model plants Arabidopsis, rice and maize, gene loci conversions and a genome browser. We further constructed a dynamic network of multidimensional biological relationships, comprised of the co-expression data, protein-protein interactions and miRNA-target pairs. We took effective measures to combine the network, gene set enrichment and motif analyses to determine the key regulators that participate in related metabolic pathways, such as the lignin pathway, which is a major biological process in bioenergy-producing plants.Database URL: http://structuralbiology.cau.edu.cn/sorghum/index.html.
ZmMYB31 and ZmMYB42 are R2R3-MYB transcription factors implicated in the regulation of phenylpropanoid genes in maize. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the regulatory function of MYB31 and MYB42 is conserved in other monocots, specifically in sorghum and rice. We demonstrate that syntelogs of MYB31 and MYB42 do bind to phenylpropanoid genes that function in all stages of the pathway and in different tissues along the developmental gradient of seedling leaves. We found that caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT1) is a common target of MYB31 and MYB42 in the mature leaf tissues of maize, sorghum and rice, as evidenced by Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments. In contrast, 4-coumarate-CoA ligase (4CL2), ferulate-5-hydroxylase (F5H), and caffeoyl shikimate esterase (CSE), were targeted by MYB31 or MYB42, but in a more species-specific fashion. Our results revealed MYB31 and MYB42 participation in auto- and cross-regulation in all three species. Apart from a limited conservation of regulatory modules, MYB31 and MYB42 syntelogs appear to have undergone subfunctionalization following gene duplication and divergence of maize, sorghum, and rice. Elucidating the different regulatory roles of these syntelogs in the context of positive transcriptional activators may help guide attempts to alter the flux of intermediates towards lignin production in biofuel grasses.
DNA binding with one finger (Dof) proteins represent a family of plant specific transcription factors associated with diverse biological processes, such as seed maturation and germination, phytohormone and light mediated regulation, and plant responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. In present study, a total of 21 Dof genes from Sorghum bicolor were cloned, sequenced and in silico characterized for homology search, revealing their identity to Dof like proteins. The expression profiling of SbDof genes using quantitative RT-PCR in different tissue types and also under drought and salt stresses was attempted. The SbDof genes displayed differential expression either in their transcript abundance or in their expression patterns under normal growth condition. Two of the SbDof genes namely SbDof8 and SbDof12 showed comparatively high level of transcript abundance in all the tissue types tested; whereas some of the SbDof genes showed a distinct tissue specific expression pattern. Further a total of 13 SbDof genes showed differential expression when subjected to either of the abiotic stress i.e. drought or salinity. Three of the SbDof genes namely SbDof12, SbDof19 and SbDof24 were found to be up-regulated in response to drought and salt stress. Comparative analysis of SbDof genes expression revealed existence of a complex transcriptional and functional diversity across plant growth and developmental stages.
C4 photosynthesis is considered one of the most remarkable examples of evolutionary convergence in eukaryotes. However, it is unknown whether the evolution of C4 photosynthesis required the evolution of new genes. Genome-wide gene-tree species-tree reconciliation of seven monocot species that span two origins of C4 photosynthesis revealed that there was significant parallelism in the duplication and retention of genes coincident with the evolution of C4 photosynthesis in these lineages. Specifically, 21 orthologous genes were duplicated and retained independently in parallel at both C4 origins. Analysis of this gene cohort revealed that the set of parallel duplicated and retained genes is enriched for genes that are preferentially expressed in bundle sheath cells, the cell type in which photosynthesis was activated during C4 evolution. Furthermore, functional analysis of the cohort of parallel duplicated genes identified SWEET-13 as a potential key transporter in the evolution of C4 photosynthesis in grasses, and provides new insight into the mechanism of phloem loading in these C4 species. C4 photosynthesis, gene duplication, gene families, parallel evolution.
A genome-wide scanning of Sorghum bicolor resulted in the identification of 25 SbHsf genes. Phylogenetic analysis shows the ortholog genes that are clustered with only rice, representing a common ancestor. Promoter analysis revealed the identification of different cis-acting elements that are responsible for abiotic as well as biotic stresses. Hsf domains like DBD, NLS, NES, and AHA have been analyzed for their sequence similarity and functional characterization. Tissue specific expression patterns of Hsfs in different tissues like mature embryo, seedling, root, and panicle were studied using real-time PCR. While Hsfs4 and 22 are highly expressed in panicle, 4 and 9 are expressed in seedlings. Sorghum plants were exposed to different abiotic stress treatments but no expression of any Hsf was observed when seedlings were treated with ABA. High level expression of Hsf1 was noticed during high temperature as well as cold stresses, 4 and 6 during salt and 5, 6, 10, 13, 19, 23 and 25 during drought stress. This comprehensive analysis of SbHsf genes will provide an insight on how these genes are regulated in different tissues and also under different abiotic stresses and help to determine the functions of Hsfs during drought and temperature stress tolerance.
Phytochrome B (phyB) enables plants to modify shoot branching or tillering in response to varying light intensities and ratios of red and far-red light caused by shading and neighbor proximity. Tillering is inhibited in sorghum genotypes that lack phytochrome B (58M, phyB-1) until after floral initiation. The growth of tiller buds in the first leaf axil of wild-type (100M, PHYB) and phyB-1 sorghum genotypes is similar until 6 d after planting when buds of phyB-1 arrest growth, while wild-type buds continue growing and develop into tillers. Transcriptome analysis at this early stage of bud development identified numerous genes that were up to 50-fold differentially expressed in wild-type/phyB-1 buds. Up-regulation of terminal flower1, GA2oxidase, and TPPI could protect axillary meristems in phyB-1 from precocious floral induction and decrease bud sensitivity to sugar signals. After bud growth arrest in phyB-1, expression of dormancy-associated genes such as DRM1, GT1, AF1, and CKX1 increased and ENOD93, ACCoxidase, ARR3/6/9, CGA1, and SHY2 decreased. Continued bud outgrowth in wild-type was correlated with increased expression of genes encoding a SWEET transporter and cell wall invertases. The SWEET transporter may facilitate Suc unloading from the phloem to the apoplast where cell wall invertases generate monosaccharides for uptake and utilization to sustain bud outgrowth. Elevated expression of these genes was correlated with higher levels of cytokinin/sugar signaling in growing buds of wild-type plants.
The WRKY gene family, which encodes proteins in the regulation processes of diverse developmental stages, is one of the largest families of transcription factors in higher plants. In this study, by searching for interspecies gene colinearity (microsynteny) and dating the age distributions of duplicated genes, we found 35 chromosomal segments of subgroup I genes of WRKY family (WRKY I) in four Gramineae species (Brachypodium, rice, sorghum, and maize) formed eight orthologous groups. After a stepwise gene-by-gene reciprocal comparison of all the protein sequences in the WRKY I gene flanking areas, highly conserved regions of microsynteny were found in the four Gramineae species. Most gene pairs showed conserved orientation within syntenic genome regions. Furthermore, tandem duplication events played the leading role in gene expansion. Eventually, environmental selection pressure analysis indicated strong purifying selection for the WRKY I genes in Gramineae, which may have been followed by gene loss and rearrangement. The results presented in this study provide basic information of Gramineae WRKY I genes and form the foundation for future functional studies of these genes. High level of microsynteny in the four grass species provides further evidence that a large-scale genome duplication event predated speciation.
The phenylpropanoid biosynthetic pathway that generates lignin subunits represents a significant target for altering the abundance and composition of lignin. The global regulators of phenylpropanoid metabolism may include MYB transcription factors, whose expression levels have been correlated with changes in secondary cell wall composition and the levels of several other aromatic compounds, including anthocyanins and flavonoids. While transcription factors correlated with downregulation of the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway have been identified in several grass species, few transcription factors linked to activation of this pathway have been identified in C4 grasses, some of which are being developed as dedicated bioenergy feedstocks. In this study we investigated the role of SbMyb60 in lignin biosynthesis in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), which is a drought-tolerant, high-yielding biomass crop. Ectopic expression of this transcription factor in sorghum was associated with higher expression levels of genes involved in monolignol biosynthesis, and led to higher abundances of syringyl lignin, significant compositional changes to the lignin polymer and increased lignin concentration in biomass. Moreover, transgenic plants constitutively overexpressing SbMyb60 also displayed ectopic lignification in leaf midribs and elevated concentrations of soluble phenolic compounds in biomass. Results indicate that overexpression of SbMyb60 is associated with activation of monolignol biosynthesis in sorghum. SbMyb60 represents a target for modification of plant cell wall composition, with the potential to improve biomass for renewable uses.
The Trihelix transcription factor family plays an essential role in plant growth, development and stress response. However, the studies about identification and analysis of this gene family in rice on the genome-wide level have not been reported. In this study, 31 members of the Trihelix family, which contain highly conserved and characteristic trihelix domain through sequence clustering and functional domains analysis, were identified in rice genome database using bioinformatic tools. These members could be classified into 5 subfamilies (I~V) based on the evolutionary relationship and domain characteristics. Clustering analyses of the Trihelix family in rice, Arabidopsis, Brachypodium distachyom and Sorghum bicolor showed that each species contained different members of subfamily although the classification of the Trihelix family were consistent in these four species, which indicated that the differentiation of the Trihelix gene family occur earlier than that of these species. The conserved motifs in the Trihelix family of rice analyzed using the MEME program were highly consistent with the results of clustering analyses. Intraspecific and interspecific chromosomal replication in partial Trihelix family members were found to exist in rice and between rice and other species through chromosome replication analysis. Microarray data analysis revealed diverse expression patterns of Trihelix family genes in different tissues of rice or in response to six different phytohormones. Moreover, 20 members of the Trihelix transcription factor family were found to interact with other proteins in rice using RiceFRIEND online database analysis. Therefore, our results preliminarily identified the evolution, chromosome distribution and replication, expression patterns, phytohormones response of the Trihelix transcription factor family and the interaction between trihelix family proteins and other proteins in rice, which will provide a basis to further reveal the molecular evolution and biological function of the Trihelix transcription factor family.
Sorghum is a versatile cereal crop, with excellent heat and drought tolerance. However, it is susceptible to early-season cold stress (12-15 °C) which limits stand-establishment and seedling growth. To gain further insights on the molecular mechanism of cold tolerance in sorghum we performed transcriptome profiling between known cold sensitive and tolerant sorghum lines using RNA sequencing technology under control and cold stress treatments. Here we report on the identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between contrasting sorghum genotypes, HongkeZi (cold tolerant) and BTx623 (cold sensitive) under cool and control temperatures using RNAseq approach to elucidate the molecular basis of sorghum response to cold stress. Furthermore, we validated bi-allelic variants in the form of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) between the cold susceptible and tolerant lines of sorghum. An analysis of transcriptome profile showed that in response to cold, a total of 1910 DEGs were detected under cold and control temperatures in both genotypes. We identified a subset of genes under cold stress for downstream analysis, including transcription factors that exhibit differential abundance between the sensitive and tolerant genotypes. We identified transcription factors including Dehydration-responsive element-binding factors, C-repeat binding factors, and Ethylene responsive transcription factors as significantly upregulated during cold stress in cold tolerant HKZ. Additionally, specific genes such as plant cytochromes, glutathione s-transferases, and heat shock proteins were found differentially regulated under cold stress between cold tolerant and susceptible genotype of sorghum. A total of 41,603 SNP were identified between the cold sensitive and tolerant genotypes with minimum read of four. Approximately 89 % of the 114 SNP sites selected for evaluation were validated using endpoint genotyping technology. A new strategy which involved an integrated analysis of differential gene expression and identification of bi-allelic single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) was conducted to determine and analyze differentially expressed genes and variation involved in cold stress response of sorghum. The results gathered provide an insight into the complex mechanisms associated with cold response in sorghum, which involve an array of transcription factors and genes which were previously related to abiotic stress response. This study also offers resource for gene based SNP that can be applied towards targeted genomic studies of cold tolerance in sorghum and other cereal crops.
CCCH zinc finger proteins, which are characterized by the presence of three cysteine residues and one histidine residue, play important roles in RNA processing in plants. Subfamily IX CCCH proteins were recently shown to function in stress tolerances. In this study, we analyzed CCCH IX genes in Zea mays, Oryza sativa, and Sorghum bicolor. These genes, which are almost intronless, were divided into four groups based on phylogenetic analysis. Microsynteny analysis revealed microsynteny in regions of some gene pairs, indicating that segmental duplication has played an important role in the expansion of this gene family. In addition, we calculated the dates of duplication by Ks analysis, finding that all microsynteny blocks were formed after the monocot-eudicot divergence. We found that deletions, multiplications, and inversions were shown to have occurred over the course of evolution. Moreover, the Ka/Ks ratios indicated that the genes in these three grass species are under strong purifying selection. Finally, we investigated the evolutionary patterns of some gene pairs conferring tolerance to abiotic stress, laying the foundation for future functional studies of these transcription factors.
Stress tolerance in plants is a coordinated action of multiple stress response genes that also cross talk with other components of the stress signal transduction pathways. The expression and regulation of stress-induced genes are largely regulated by specific transcription factors, families of which have been reported in several plant species, such as Arabidopsis, rice and Populus. In sorghum, the majority of such factors remain unexplored. We used 2DE refined with MALDI-TOF techniques to analyze drought stress-induced proteins in sorghum. A total of 176 transcription factors from the MYB, AUX_ARF, bZIP, AP2 and WRKY families of drought-induced proteins were identified. We developed a method based on semantic similarity of gene ontology terms (GO terms) to identify the transcription factors. A threshold value (≥ 90%) was applied to retrieve total 1,493 transcription factors with high semantic similarity from selected plant species. It could be concluded that the identified transcription factors regulate their target proteins with endogenous signals and environmental cues, such as light, temperature and drought stress. The regulatory network and cis-acting elements of the identified transcription factors in distinct families are involved in responsiveness to auxin, abscisic acid, defense, stress and light. These responses may be highly important in the modulation of plant growth and development.
Heritable phenotypic alterations occurring during plant ontogenesis under the influence of environmental factors are among the most intriguing genetic phenomena. It was found that male-sterile sorghum hybrids in the 9E cytoplasm from the F1 and F2 generations, which were obtained by crossing CMS lines with different fertile lines grown in field conditions, were transferred to greenhouse produce fertile tillers. Lines created by the self-pollination of revertant tillers exhibit complete male fertility upon cultivation under various environments (in the field, Tdry plot,(y) Tirrigated plot(y)). In a number of test-crosses of revertants to CMS lines in the 9E cytoplasm, restoration of male fertility in F1 hybrids was found, indicating that revertants possess functional fertility-restoring genes. A high positive correlation was found between the fertility level of the test-cross hybrids and the hydrothermal coefficient (the ratio of the sum of precipitation to the sum of temperatures) during the booting stage and pollen maturation (r = 0.75...0.91; P<0.01), suggesting that a high level of plant water availability is needed for the expression of fertility-restoring genes of revertants. These data show that the fertility-restoring genes for the 9E cytoplasm are dominant in conditions of high water availability and recessive in drought conditions; reversions to male fertility are due to up-regulation of fertility-restoring genes by a high level of water availability. Comparative MSAP-analysis of DNA of male-sterile and male-fertile test-cross hybrids using HpaII/MspI restrictases and primers to polygalacturonase gene ADPG2, which is required for cell separation during reproductive development, and gene MYB46, the transcription factor regulating secondary wall biosynthesis, revealed differences in the number and the length of amplified fragments. Changes in the methylation of these genes in conditions of drought stress are apparently the reason for male sterility of sorghum hybrids in the 9E cytoplasm. These data demonstrate that methylation of nuclear genes in sterility-inducing cytoplasm may be one of mechanisms causing the CMS phenomenon.
Allele phylogenetic analysis of the sorghum flowering-time gene PRR37 provided new insight into the human-mediated selection of a key adaptive gene that occurred during sorghum's diversification and worldwide dispersal. The domestication and spread of the tropical cereal sorghum is associated with the historic movement of humans. We show that an allelic series at PRR37 (pseudo-response regulator 37), a circadian clock-associated transcription factor, was selected in long-day ecosystems worldwide to permit floral initiation and grain production. We identified a series of loss-of-function (photoperiod-insensitive) alleles encoding truncated PRR37 proteins, alleles with key amino acid substitutions in the pseudo-receiver domain, and a novel splice variant in which the pseudo-receiver domain is truncated. Each PRR37 allelic variant was traced to a specific geographic location or specialized agronomic type. We present a graphical model that shows evidence of human selection and gene flow of the PRR37 allelic variants during the global dispersal and agronomic diversification of sorghum. With the recent identification of the Ghd7 gene as an important regulator of flowering date in sorghum, we briefly examine whether loss-of-function Ghd7 allelic variants were selected prior to the human-mediated movement of sorghum from its equatorial center of origin to temperate climates worldwide.
Growth-defence balance is the selective partitioning of resources between biomass accumulation and defence responses. Although it is generally postulated that reallocation of limited carbon pools drives the antagonism between growth and defence, little is known about the mechanisms underlying this regulation. Jasmonates (JAs) are a group of oxylipins that are required for a broad range of responses from defence against insects to reproductive growth. Application of JAs to seedlings also leads to inhibited growth and repression of photosynthesis, suggesting a role for JAs in regulating growth-defence balance. The majority of JA research uses dicot models such as Arabidopsis and tomato, while understanding of JA biology in monocot grasses, which comprise most bioenergy feedstocks, food for human consumption, and animal feed, is limited. Interestingly, JA mutants of grasses exhibit unique phenotypes compared with well-studied dicot models. Gene expression analyses in bioenergy grasses also suggest roles for JA in rhizome development, which has not been demonstrated in Arabidopsis. In this review we summarize current knowledge of JA biology in panicoid grasses-the group that consists of the world's emerging bioenergy grasses such as switchgrass, sugarcane, Miscanthus, and sorghum. We discuss outstanding questions regarding the role of JAs in panicoid grasses, and highlight the importance of utilizing emerging grass models for molecular studies to provide a basis for engineering bioenergy grasses that can maximize biomass accumulation while efficiently defending against stress.
Sorghum responds to the ingress of the fungal pathogen Colletotrichum sublineolum through the biosynthesis of 3-deoxyanthocyanidin phytoalexins at the site of primary infection. Biosynthesis of 3-deoxyanthocyanidins in sorghum requires a MYB transcription factor encoded by yellow seed1 (y1), an orthologue of the maize gene pericarp color1 (p1). Maize lines with a functional p1 and flavonoid structural genes do not produce foliar 3-deoxyanthocyanidins in response to fungal ingress. To perform a comparative metabolic analysis of sorghum and maize 3-deoxyanthocyanidin biosynthetic pathways, we developed transgenic maize lines expressing the sorghum y1 gene. In maize, the y1 transgene phenocopied p1-regulated pigment accumulation in the pericarp and cob glumes. LC-MS profiling of fungus-challenged Y1-maize leaves showed induction of 3-deoxyanthocyanidins, specifically luteolinidin. Y1-maize plants also induced constitutive and higher levels of flavonoids in leaves. In response to Colletotrichum graminicola, Y1-maize showed a resistance response.
In eukaryotes, alternative splicing (AS) promotes transcriptome and proteome diversity. The extent of genome-wide AS changes occurring during a plant-microbe interaction is largely unknown. Here, using high-throughput, paired-end RNA sequencing, we generated an isoform-level spliceome map of Brachypodium distachyon infected with Panicum mosaic virus and its satellite virus. Overall, we detected ∼44,443 transcripts in B. distachyon, ∼30% more than those annotated in the reference genome. Expression of ∼28,900 transcripts was ≥2 fragments per kilobase of transcript per million mapped fragments, and ∼42% of multi-exonic genes were alternatively spliced. Comparative analysis of AS patterns in B. distachyon, rice (Oryza sativa), maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), Arabidopsis thaliana, potato (Solanum tuberosum), Medicago truncatula, and poplar (Populus trichocarpa) revealed conserved ratios of the AS types between monocots and dicots. Virus infection quantitatively altered AS events in Brachypodium with little effect on the AS ratios. We discovered AS events for >100 immune-related genes encoding receptor-like kinases, NB-LRR resistance proteins, transcription factors, RNA silencing, and splicing-associated proteins. Cloning and molecular characterization of SCL33, a serine/arginine-rich splicing factor, identified multiple novel intron-retaining splice variants that are developmentally regulated and modulated during virus infection. B. distachyon SCL33 splicing patterns are also strikingly conserved compared with a distant Arabidopsis SCL33 ortholog. This analysis provides new insights into AS landscapes conserved among monocots and dicots and uncovered AS events in plant defense-related genes.
The APETALA2/ethylene-responsive element binding factor (AP2/ERF) family is one of the largest transcription factor (TF) families in plants that includes four major sub-families, namely AP2, DREB (dehydration responsive element binding), ERF (ethylene responsive factors) and RAV (Related to ABI3/VP). AP2/ERFs are known to play significant roles in various plant processes including growth and development and biotic and abiotic stress responses. Considering this, a comprehensive genome-wide study was conducted in foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.). A total of 171 AP2/ERF genes were identified by systematic sequence analysis and were physically mapped onto nine chromosomes. Phylogenetic analysis grouped AP2/ERF genes into six classes (I to VI). Duplication analysis revealed that 12 (∼7%) SiAP2/ERF genes were tandem repeated and 22 (∼13%) were segmentally duplicated. Comparative physical mapping between foxtail millet AP2/ERF genes and its orthologs of sorghum (18 genes), maize (14 genes), rice (9 genes) and Brachypodium (6 genes) showed the evolutionary insights of AP2/ERF gene family and also the decrease in orthology with increase in phylogenetic distance. The evolutionary significance in terms of gene-duplication and divergence was analyzed by estimating synonymous and non-synonymous substitution rates. Expression profiling of candidate AP2/ERF genes against drought, salt and phytohormones revealed insights into their precise and/or overlapping expression patterns which could be responsible for their functional divergence in foxtail millet. The study showed that the genes SiAP2/ERF-069, SiAP2/ERF-103 and SiAP2/ERF-120 may be considered as potential candidate genes for further functional validation as well for utilization in crop improvement programs for stress resistance since these genes were up-regulated under drought and salinity stresses in ABA dependent manner. Altogether the present study provides new insights into evolution, divergence and systematic functional analysis of AP2/ERF gene family at genome level in foxtail millet which may be utilized for improving stress adaptation and tolerance in millets, cereals and bioenergy grasses.
MYB proteins represent one of the largest transcription factor families in plants, playing important roles in diverse developmental and stress-responsive processes. Considering its significance, several genome-wide analyses have been conducted in almost all land plants except foxtail millet. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) is a model crop for investigating systems biology of millets and bioenergy grasses. Further, the crop is also known for its potential abiotic stress-tolerance. In this context, a comprehensive genome-wide survey was conducted and 209 MYB protein-encoding genes were identified in foxtail millet. All 209 S. italica MYB (SiMYB) genes were physically mapped onto nine chromosomes of foxtail millet. Gene duplication study showed that segmental- and tandem-duplication have occurred in genome resulting in expansion of this gene family. The protein domain investigation classified SiMYB proteins into three classes according to number of MYB repeats present. The phylogenetic analysis categorized SiMYBs into ten groups (I-X). SiMYB-based comparative mapping revealed a maximum orthology between foxtail millet and sorghum, followed by maize, rice and Brachypodium. Heat map analysis showed tissue-specific expression pattern of predominant SiMYB genes. Expression profiling of candidate MYB genes against abiotic stresses and hormone treatments using qRT-PCR revealed specific and/or overlapping expression patterns of SiMYBs. Taken together, the present study provides a foundation for evolutionary and functional characterization of MYB TFs in foxtail millet to dissect their functions in response to environmental stimuli.
Heat stress transcription factors (Hsfs) regulate gene expression in response to heat and many other environmental stresses in plants. Understanding the adaptive evolution of Hsf genes in the grass family will provide potentially useful information for the genetic improvement of modern crops to handle increasing global temperatures. In this work, we performed a genome-wide survey of Hsf genes in 5 grass species, including rice, maize, sorghum, Setaria, and Brachypodium, by describing their phylogenetic relationships, adaptive evolution, and expression patterns under abiotic stresses. The Hsf genes in grasses were divided into 24 orthologous gene clusters (OGCs) based on phylogeneitc relationship and synteny, suggesting that 24 Hsf genes were present in the ancestral grass genome. However, 9 duplication and 4 gene-loss events were identified in the tested genomes. A maximum-likelihood analysis revealed the effects of positive selection in the evolution of 11 OGCs and suggested that OGCs with duplicated or lost genes were more readily influenced by positive selection than other OGCs. Further investigation revealed that positive selection acted on only one of the duplicated genes in 8 of 9 paralogous pairs, suggesting that neofunctionalization contributed to the evolution of these duplicated pairs. We also investigated the expression patterns of rice and maize Hsf genes under heat, salt, drought, and cold stresses. The results revealed divergent expression patterns between the duplicated genes. This study demonstrates that neofunctionalization by changes in expression pattern and function following gene duplication has been an important factor in the maintenance and divergence of grass Hsf genes.
Abiotic stresses which include drought and heat are amongst the main limiting factors for plant growth and crop productivity. In the field, these stress types are rarely presented individually and plants are often subjected to a combination of stress types. Sorghum bicolor is a cereal crop which is grown in arid and semi-arid regions and is particularly well adapted to the hot and dry conditions in which it originates and is now grown as a crop. In order to better understand the mechanisms underlying combined stress tolerance in this important crop, we have used microarrays to investigate the transcriptional response of Sorghum subjected to heat and drought stresses imposed both individually and in combination. Microarrays consisting of 28585 gene probes identified gene expression changes equating to ~4% and 18% of genes on the chip following drought and heat stresses respectively. In response to combined stress ~20% of probes were differentially expressed. Whilst many of these transcript changes were in common with those changed in response to heat or drought alone, the levels of 2043 specific transcripts (representing 7% of all gene probes) were found to only be changed following the combined stress treatment. Ontological analysis of these 'unique' transcripts identified a potential role for specific transcription factors including MYB78 and ATAF1, chaperones including unique heat shock proteins (HSPs) and metabolic pathways including polyamine biosynthesis in the Sorghum combined stress response. These results show evidence for both cross-talk and specificity in the Sorghum response to combined heat and drought stress. It is clear that some aspects of the combined stress response are unique compared to those of individual stresses. A functional characterization of the genes and pathways identified here could lead to new targets for the enhancement of plant stress tolerance, which will be particularly important in the face of climate change and the increasing prevalence of these abiotic stress types.
C2H2 type of zinc finger transcription factors (TFs) play crucial roles in plant stress response and hormone signal transduction. Hence considering its importance, genome-wide investigation and characterization of C2H2 zinc finger proteins were performed in Arabidopsis, rice and poplar but no such study was conducted in foxtail millet which is a C4 Panicoid model crop well known for its abiotic stress tolerance. The present study identified 124 C2H2-type zinc finger TFs in foxtail millet (SiC2H2) and physically mapped them onto the genome. The gene duplication analysis revealed that SiC2H2s primarily expanded in the genome through tandem duplication. The phylogenetic tree classified these TFs into five groups (I-V). Further, miRNAs targeting SiC2H2 transcripts in foxtail millet were identified. Heat map demonstrated differential and tissue-specific expression patterns of these SiC2H2 genes. Comparative physical mapping between foxtail millet SiC2H2 genes and its orthologs of sorghum, maize and rice revealed the evolutionary relationships of C2H2 type of zinc finger TFs. The duplication and divergence data provided novel insight into the evolutionary aspects of these TFs in foxtail millet and related grass species. Expression profiling of candidate SiC2H2 genes in response to salinity, dehydration and cold stress showed differential expression pattern of these genes at different time points of stresses.
In this study, we carried out an evolutionary, transcriptional, and functional analyses of the trihelix transcription factor family. A total of 319 trihelix members, identified from 11 land plant species, were classified into five clades. The results of phylogeny indicate the binding domains of GT1 and GT2 diverged early in the existence of land plants. Genomic localization revealed that the trihelix family members were highly conserved among cereal species, even though some homeologs generated during the tetraploidy of maize were lost. Three-dimensional structural analyses and an examination of subcellular localization of this family supported the involvement of all five clades in transcriptional regulation. Furthermore, the family members from all clades in sorghum and rice showed a broad and dynamic expression pattern in response to abiotic stresses, indicating regulatory subfunctionalization of their original functions. This finding is further supported by the phenotypes of enhanced tolerance to cold, salt, and drought in transgenic plants overexpressing Sb06g023980 and Sb06g024110. In contrast, few Arobidopsis genes showed inducible expression under abiotic stress conditions, which may indicate a functional shift. Finally, our co-expression analysis points to the involvement of this family in various metabolic processes, implying their further functional divergence.
bZIP proteins are one of the largest transcriptional regulators playing crucial roles in plant development, physiological processes, and biotic/abiotic stress responses. Despite the availability of recently published draft genome sequence of Cucumis sativus, no comprehensive investigation of these family members has been presented for cucumber. We have identified 64 bZIP transcription factor-encoding genes in the cucumber genome. Based on structural features of their encoded proteins, CsbZIP genes could be classified into 6 groups. Cucumber bZIP genes were expanded mainly by segmental duplication rather than tandem duplication. Although segmental duplication rate of the CsbZIP genes was lower than that of Arabidopsis, rice and sorghum, it was observed as a common expansion mechanism. Some orthologous relationships and chromosomal rearrangements were observed according to comparative mapping analysis with other species. Genome-wide expression analysis of bZIP genes indicated that 64 CsbZIP genes were differentially expressed in at least one of the ten sampled tissues. A total of 4 CsbZIP genes displayed higher expression values in leaf, flowers and root tissues. The in silico micro-RNA (miRNA) and target transcript analyses identified that a total of 21 CsbZIP genes were targeted by 38 plant miRNAs. CsbZIP20 and CsbZIP22 are the most targeted by miR165 and miR166 family members, respectively. We also analyzed the expression of ten CsbZIP genes in the root and leaf tissues of drought-stressed cucumber using quantitative RT-PCR. All of the selected CsbZIP genes were measured as increased in root tissue at 24th h upon PEG treatment. Contrarily, the down-regulation was observed in leaf tissues of all analyzed CsbZIP genes. CsbZIP12 and CsbZIP44 genes showed gradual induction of expression in root tissues during time points. This genome-wide identification and expression profiling provides new opportunities for cloning and functional analyses, which may be used in further studies for improving stress tolerance in plants.
Leaves of almost all C4 lineages separate the reactions of photosynthesis into the mesophyll (M) and bundle sheath (BS). The extent to which messenger RNA profiles of M and BS cells from independent C4 lineages resemble each other is not known. To address this, we conducted deep sequencing of RNA isolated from the M and BS of Setaria viridis and compared these data with publicly available information from maize (Zea mays). This revealed a high correlation (r=0.89) between the relative abundance of transcripts encoding proteins of the core C4 pathway in M and BS cells in these species, indicating significant convergence in transcript accumulation in these evolutionarily independent C4 lineages. We also found that the vast majority of genes encoding proteins of the C4 cycle in S. viridis are syntenic to homologs used by maize. In both lineages, 122 and 212 homologous transcription factors were preferentially expressed in the M and BS, respectively. Sixteen shared regulators of chloroplast biogenesis were identified, 14 of which were syntenic homologs in maize and S. viridis. In sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), a third C4 grass, we found that 82% of these trans-factors were also differentially expressed in either M or BS cells. Taken together, these data provide, to our knowledge, the first quantification of convergence in transcript abundance in the M and BS cells from independent lineages of C4 grasses. Furthermore, the repeated recruitment of syntenic homologs from large gene families strongly implies that parallel evolution of both structural genes and trans-factors underpins the polyphyletic evolution of this highly complex trait in the monocotyledons.
The high frequency of alternative splicing among the serine/arginine-rich (SR) family of proteins in plants has been linked to important roles in gene regulation during development and in response to environmental stress. In this article, we have searched and manually annotated all the SR proteins in the genomes of maize and sorghum. The experimental validation of gene structure by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed, with few exceptions, that SR genes produced multiple isoforms of transcripts by alternative splicing. Despite sharing high structural similarity and conserved positions of the introns, the profile of alternative splicing diverged significantly between maize and sorghum for the vast majority of SR genes. These include many transcript isoforms discovered by RT-PCR and not represented in extant expressed sequence tag (EST) collection. However, we report the occurrence of various maize and sorghum SR mRNA isoforms that display evolutionary conservation of splicing events with their homologous SR genes in Arabidopsis and moss. Our data also indicate an important role of both 5' and 3' untranslated regions in the regulation of SR gene expression. These observations have potentially important implications for the processes of evolution and adaptation of plants to land.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) is a high-yielding, stress tolerant energy crop for lignocellulosic-based biofuel production. Saccharification is a process by which hydrolytic enzymes break down lignocellulosic materials to fermentable sugars for biofuel production, and mapping and identifying genes underlying saccharification yield is an important first step to genetically improve the plant for higher biofuel productivity. In this study, we used the ICRISAT sorghum mini core germplasm collection and 14 739 single nucleotide polymorphism markers to map saccharification yield. Seven marker loci were associated with saccharification yield and five of these loci were syntenic with regions in the maize genome that contain quantitative trait loci underlying saccharification yield and cell wall component traits. Candidate genes from the seven loci were identified but must be validated, with the most promising candidates being β-tubulin, which determines the orientation of cellulose microfibrils in plant secondary cell walls, and NST1, a master transcription factor controlling secondary cell wall biosynthesis in fibers. Other candidate genes underlying the different saccharification loci included genes that play a role in vascular development and suberin deposition in plants. The identified loci and candidate genes provide information into the factors controlling saccharification yield and may facilitate increasing biofuel production in sorghum.
Transcription initiation, essential to gene expression regulation, involves recruitment of basal transcription factors to the core promoter elements (CPEs). The distribution of currently known CPEs across plant genomes is largely unknown. This is the first large scale genome-wide report on the computational prediction of CPEs across eight plant genomes to help better understand the transcription initiation complex assembly. The distribution of thirteen known CPEs across four monocots (Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa ssp. japonica, Sorghum bicolor, Zea mays) and four dicots (Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus trichocarpa, Vitis vinifera, Glycine max) reveals the structural organization of the core promoter in relation to the TATA-box as well as with respect to other CPEs. The distribution of known CPE motifs with respect to transcription start site (TSS) exhibited positional conservation within monocots and dicots with slight differences across all eight genomes. Further, a more refined subset of annotated genes based on orthologs of the model monocot (O. sativa ssp. japonica) and dicot (A. thaliana) genomes supported the positional distribution of these thirteen known CPEs. DNA free energy profiles provided evidence that the structural properties of promoter regions are distinctly different from that of the non-regulatory genome sequence. It also showed that monocot core promoters have lower DNA free energy than dicot core promoters. The comparison of monocot and dicot promoter sequences highlights both the similarities and differences in the core promoter architecture irrespective of the species-specific nucleotide bias. This study will be useful for future work related to genome annotation projects and can inspire research efforts aimed to better understand regulatory mechanisms of transcription.
The precise adjustment of the timing of dormancy release according to final grain usage is still a challenge for many cereal crops. Grain sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] shows wide intraspecific variability in dormancy level and susceptibility to pre-harvest sprouting (PHS). Both embryo sensitivity to abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellin (GA) metabolism play an important role in the expression of dormancy of the developing sorghum grain. In previous works, it was shown that, simultaneously with a greater embryo sensitivity to ABA and higher expression of SbABA-INSENSITIVE 4 (SbABI4) and SbABA-INSENSITIVE 5 (SbABI5), dormant grains accumulate less active GA4 due to a more active GA catabolism. In this work, it is demonstrated that the ABA signalling components SbABI4 and SbABI5 interact in vitro with a fragment of the SbGA 2-OXIDASE 3 (SbGA2ox3) promoter containing an ABA-responsive complex (ABRC). Both transcription factors were able to bind the promoter, although not simultaneously, suggesting that they might compete for the same cis-acting regulatory sequences. A biological role for these interactions in the expression of dormancy of sorghum grains is proposed: either SbABI4 and/or SbABI5 activate transcription of the SbGA2ox3 gene in vivo and promote SbGA2ox3 protein accumulation; this would result in active degradation of GA4, thus preventing germination of dormant grains. A comparative analysis of the 5'-regulatory region of GA2oxs from both monocots and dicots is also presented; conservation of the ABRC in closely related GA2oxs from Brachypodium distachyon and rice suggest that these species might share the same regulatory mechanism as proposed for grain sorghum.
Transcriptomic data for Sorghum propinquum, the wild-type sorghum, are limited in public databases. S. propinquum has a subterranean rhizome and transcriptome data will help in understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying rhizome formation. We sequenced the transcriptome of S. propinquum aerial-shoot and rhizome using an Illumina platform. More than 70 % of the genes in the S. propinquum genome were expressed in aerial-shoot and rhizome. The expression patterns of 1963 and 599 genes, including transcription factors, were specific or enriched in aerial-shoot and rhizome respectively, indicating their possible roles in physiological processes in these tissues. Comparative analysis revealed several cis-elements, ACGT box, GCCAC, GATC and TGACG box, which showed significantly higher abundance in aerial-shoot-specific genes. In rhizome-specific genes MYB and ROOTMOTIFTAPOX1 motifs, and 10 promoter and cytokinin-responsive elements were highly enriched. Of the S. propinquum genes, 27.9 % were identified as alternatively spliced and about 60 % of the alternative splicing (AS) events were tissue-specific, suggesting that AS played a crucial role in determining tissue-specific cellular function. The transcriptome data, especially the co-localized rhizome-enriched expressed transcripts that mapped to the publicly available rhizome-related quantitative trait loci, will contribute to gene discovery in S. propinquum and to functional studies of the sorghum genome. Deep transcriptome sequencing revealed a clear difference in the expression patterns of genes between aerial-shoot and rhizome in S. propinquum. This data set provides essential information for future studies into the molecular genetic mechanisms involved in rhizome formation.
The worldwide production of maize (Zea mays L.) is frequently impacted by water scarcity and as a result, increased drought tolerance is a priority target in maize breeding programs. While DREB transcription factors have been demonstrated to play a central role in desiccation tolerance, whether or not natural sequence variations in these genes are associated with the phenotypic variability of this trait is largely unknown. In the present study, eighteen ZmDREB genes present in the maize B73 genome were cloned and systematically analyzed to determine their phylogenetic relationship, synteny with rice, maize and sorghum genomes; pattern of drought-responsive gene expression, and protein transactivation activity. Importantly, the association between the nucleic acid variation of each ZmDREB gene with drought tolerance was evaluated using a diverse population of maize consisting of 368 varieties from tropical and temperate regions. A significant association between the genetic variation of ZmDREB2.7 and drought tolerance at seedling stage was identified. Further analysis found that the DNA polymorphisms in the promoter region of ZmDREB2.7, but not the protein coding region itself, was associated with different levels of drought tolerance among maize varieties, likely due to distinct patterns of gene expression in response to drought stress. In vitro, protein-DNA binding assay demonstrated that ZmDREB2.7 protein could specifically interact with the target DNA sequences. The transgenic Arabidopsis overexpressing ZmDREB2.7 displayed enhanced tolerance to drought stress. Moreover, a favorable allele of ZmDREB2.7, identified in the drought-tolerant maize varieties, was effective in imparting plant tolerance to drought stress. Based upon these findings, we conclude that natural variation in the promoter of ZmDREB2.7 contributes to maize drought tolerance, and that the gene and its favorable allele may be an important genetic resource for the genetic improvement of drought tolerance in maize.
Transcription factors (TFs) are an important target in understanding the regulation of plant responses to environmental stress including moisture stress. Members of the same TF family may differ in their response to moisture stress. The expression pattern could vary between shoot and root tissues depending on level of moisture stress. A set of five rarely studied TF families viz., MADS-box (MCM1, AGAMOUS, DEFICIENS and SRF), Auxin Responsive Factor (ARF), Heme Activator Protein 2 (HAP2), Multiprotein Bridging Factor (MBF) and Homeobox (HB) together having 20 members in sorghum, were expression analyzed through quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) in well watered and moisture stressed shoot and root tissues of sorghum using SYBR Green® to quantify dsDNA synthesis. Fluorescence values were used to calculate PCR efficiency by using LinRegPCR. The PTSb00029.1 and PTSb00033.1 of ARF family and PTSb00174.1 and PTSb00175.1 of HB family recorded 2 to 5, PTSb00221.1 and PTSb00208.1 of MADS family and PTSb00128.1 of HAP2 family recorded 5 to 10 fold up-regulation under moisture stress regimes. The PTSb00128.1, a HAP2 family member, recorded 15 fold up-regulation in mild moisture stressed root tissues. TF genes such as PTSb00218.1, PTSb00220.1, PTSb00031.1, PTSb00032.1, PTSb00034.1 and PTSb00223.1 were found down regulating in both tissues types under moisture stress condition. However, the PTSb00128.1, PTSb00221.1, PTSb00029.1, PTSb00033.1 and PTSb00174.1 TFs were found up-regulating to varied levels in mild and severe moisture stressed root tissues only. Verification of qRT-PCR results was done by in situ hybridization (ISH) of randomly selected two TF genes in shoot and root tissues of sorghum. Taken together, moisture stress triggered up-regulation of more genes in root tissue compared to shoot tissue in sorghum.
Sorghum is not only an important cereal crop but also a biofuel crop. The sorghum brown midrib mutant 6 (bmr6) has a reduced lignin content in the cell walls and vascular tissues, which could potentially be advantageous for cellulosic biofuel production. Meanwhile, both dry matter yield and plant height were decreased in the bmr6 mutant. To identify genes affected in the mutant, differential gene expression analysis was performed for bmr6 and the wild type. As a result, a total of 1,052 differentially expressed genes were detected between the two samples, of which 166 genes were downregulated and 886 genes were upregulated. Five hundred seventy-nine of the 1,052 differentially expressed genes could be assigned to 154 documented pathways. These pathways mainly included primary and secondary metabolism. Therefore, mutation of the bmr6 gene, which impaired the biosynthesis of lignin, ultimately affected the expression of these genes associated with the growth and development of sorghum. Except for the bmr6 gene, 11 key enzyme genes of monolignols biosynthesis were upregulated. Promoter analysis identified that these genes have common MYB sites. It revealed that a feedback mechanism existed in the pathway and a MYB1 transcription factor (Sb02g031190) could associate with the upregulation of these genes in sorghum. In this study, we investigated gene expressions at a global level in sorghum bmr6 mutant and provided valuable insights into the mechanisms of lignin biosynthesis.
Waterlogging causes extensive damage to maize crops in tropical and subtropical regions. The identification of tolerance genes and their interactions at the molecular level will be helpful to engineer tolerant genotypes. A whole-genome transcriptome assay revealed the specific role of genes in response to waterlogging stress in susceptible and tolerant genotypes. Genes involved in the synthesis of ethylene and auxin, cell wall metabolism, activation of G-proteins and formation of aerenchyma and adventitious roots, were upregulated in the tolerant genotype. Many transcription factors, particularly ERFs, MYB, HSPs, MAPK, and LOB-domain protein were involved in regulation of these traits. Genes responsible for scavenging of ROS generated under stress were expressed along with those involved in carbohydrate metabolism. The physical locations of 21 genes expressed in the tolerant genotype were found to correspond with the marker intervals of known QTLs responsible for development of adaptive traits. Among the candidate genes, most showed synteny with genes of sorghum and foxtail millet. Co-expression analysis of 528 microarray samples including 16 samples from the present study generated seven functional modules each in the two genotypes, with differing characteristics. In the tolerant genotype, stress genes were co-expressed along with peroxidase and fermentation pathway genes.
Sorghum is a principal cereal food in a number of parts of the world and is critical in folk medicine in Asia and Africa. However, its effects on bone are unknown. Growth hormone (GH) is a regulator of bone growth and bone metabolism. GH activates several signaling pathways, including the Janus kinase (Jak)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathways, thereby regulating expression of genes, including insulin‑like growth factor (IGF)‑1. Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) induce the differentiation of cells of the osteoblastic lineage, increasing the pool of IGF‑1 target cells, the mature osteoblasts. In the present study, the effects of Hwanggeumchal sorghum extracts (HSE) on GH signaling via the Jak/STAT pathway in osteoblasts were investigated. HSE was not observed to be toxic to osteoblastic cells and increased the expression of BMP7 and GH‑related proteins, including STAT5B, p‑STAT5B, IGF‑1 receptor (IGF-1R), growth receptor hormone (GHR) and Jak2 in MC3T3‑E1 cells. In addition, HSE increased BMP7 and GHR mRNA expression in MC3T3‑E1 cells. The expression of HSE‑induced BMP7 and GHR was inhibited by AG490, a Jak2 kinase inhibitor. The observations indicate that HSE‑induced signaling is similar to GH signaling via the GHR‑Jak2 signaling axis. Using small interference RNA (siRNA) analysis, STAT5B was found to play an essential role in HSE‑induced BMP7 and GH signaling in MC3T3‑E1 cells. Results of the current study indicate that HSE promotes bone growth through activation of STAT5B.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small endogenous genes regulators which regulate different processes underlying plant adaptation to abiotic stresses. To gain a deep understanding of role of miRNAs in plants, in the present study, we computationally analyzed different sorghum miRNAs in the drought-induced gene sequences. Homologous miRNA were identified using different plant miRNA databases. Using previously established genes databases, various targets of sorghum miRNAs were predicted viz: transcription factors, chaperonins, metabolic enzymes and other gene targets necessary for proper plant development. Analysis of cis-elements provides molecular evidence for the possible involvement of miRNAs in the process of abiotic stress tolerance in sorghum. Based on these results, it was suggested that miRNAs may play an important role in water stress tolerance.
The ethylene response factor (ERF) family are members of the APETALA2 (AP2)/ERF transcription factor superfamily; they are known to play an important role in plant adaptation to biotic and abiotic stress. ERF genes have been studied in Arabidopsis, rice, grape, and maize; however, there are few reports of ERF genes in sorghum. We identified 105 sorghum ERF (SbERF) genes, which were categorized into 12 groups (A-1 to A-6 and B-1 to B-6) based on their sequence similarity, and this new method of classification for ERF genes was then further characterized. A comprehensive bioinformatic analysis of SbERF genes was performed using a sorghum genomic database, to analyze the phylogeny of SbERF genes, identify other conserved motifs apart from the AP2/ERF domain, map SbERF genes to the 10 sorghum chromosomes, and determine the tissue-specific expression patterns of SbERF genes. Gene clustering indicates that SbERF genes were generated by tandem duplications. Comparison of SbERF genes with maize ERF homologs suggests lateral gene transfer between monocot species. These results can contribute to our understanting of the evolution of the ERF gene family.
EPF1-EPF2 and EPFL9/Stomagen act antagonistically in regulating leaf stomatal density. The aim of this study was to elucidate the evolutionary functional divergence of EPF/EPFL family genes. Phylogenetic analyses showed that AtEPFL9/Stomagen-like genes are conserved only in vascular plants and are closely related to AtEPF1/EPF2-like genes. Modeling showed that EPF/EPFL peptides share a common 3D structure that is constituted of a scaffold and loop. Molecular dynamics simulation suggested that AtEPF1/EPF2-like peptides form an additional disulfide bond in their loop regions and show greater flexibility in these regions than AtEPFL9/Stomagen-like peptides. This study uncovered the evolutionary relationship and the conformational divergence of proteins encoded by the EPF/EPFL family genes.
Basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) genes are important regulators of development in plants. SbbHLH1, a Sorghum bicolor bHLH sequence, was isolated from a suppression subtractive hybridization library constructed using 13 independent brown midrib (bmr) mutants as the tester and wild-type sorghum as the driver. The gene was upregulated in at least five of the mutants at the five- to seven-leaf stage. Using a yeast expression system, the N-terminal portion of SbbHLH1 was shown to be required for proper transactivation. Its heterologous expression in Arabidopsis thaliana markedly reduced the plant's lignin content. It downregulated the lignin synthesis genes 4CL1, HCT, COMT, PAL1, and CCR1, and upregulated the transcription factors MYB83, MYB46, and MYB63. The hypothesis is proposed that SbbHLH1 has stronger effect on the regulation of lignin synthesis than the various MYB transcription factors, with a possible feedback mechanism acting on the MYB transcriptional regulators.
Plant height and maturity are two critical traits in sorghum breeding. To develop molecular tools and to identify genes underlying the traits for molecular breeding, we developed 14,739 SNP markers used to genotype the complete sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] mini core collection. The collection was evaluated in four rainy and three post-rainy season environments for plant height and maturity. Association analysis identified six marker loci linked to height and ten to maturity in at least two environments with at least two SNPs in each locus. Of these, 14 were in close proximity to previously mapped height/maturity QTL in sorghum. Candidate genes for maturity or plant height close to the marker loci include a sugar transporter (SbSUC9), an auxin response factor (SbARF3), an FLC and FT regulator (SbMED12), and a photoperiod response gene (SbPPR1) for maturity and peroxidase 53, and an auxin transporter (SbLAX4) for plant height. Linkage disequilibrium analysis showed that SbPPR1 and SbARF3 were in regions with reduced sequence variation among early-maturing accessions, suggestive of past purifying selection. We also found a linkage disequilibrium block that existed only among the accessions with short plant height in rainy season environments. The block contains a gene homologous to the Arabidopsis flowering time gene, LUMINIDEPENDENS (LD). Functional LD promotes early maturity while mutation delays maturity, affecting plant height. Previous studies also found reduced sequence variations within this gene. These newly-mapped SNP markers will facilitate further efforts to identify plant height or maturity genes in sorghum.
The recent development of RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) technology has enabled us to analyze the transcriptomes of plants and their pathogens simultaneously. However, RNA-seq often relies on aligning reads to a reference genome and is thus unsuitable for analyzing most plant pathogens, as their genomes have not been fully sequenced. Here, we analyzed the transcriptomes of Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench and its pathogen Bipolaris sorghicola simultaneously by using RNA-seq in combination with de novo transcriptome assembly. We sequenced the mixed transcriptome of the disease-resistant sorghum cultivar SIL-05 and B. sorghicola in infected leaves in the early stages of infection (12 and 24 h post-inoculation) by using Illumina mRNA-Seq technology. Sorghum gene expression was quantified by aligning reads to the sorghum reference genome. For B. sorghicola, reads that could not be aligned to the sorghum reference genome were subjected to de novo transcriptome assembly. We identified genes of B. sorghicola for growth of this fungus in sorghum, as well as genes in sorghum for the defense response. The genes of B. sorghicola included those encoding Woronin body major protein, LysM domain-containing intracellular hyphae protein, transcriptional factors CpcA and HacA, and plant cell-wall degrading enzymes. The sorghum genes included those encoding two receptors of the simple eLRR domain protein family, transcription factors that are putative orthologs of OsWRKY45 and OsWRKY28 in rice, and a class III peroxidase that is a homolog involved in disease resistance in the Poaceae. These defense-related genes were particularly strongly induced among paralogs annotated in the sorghum genome. Thus, in the absence of genome sequences for the pathogen, simultaneous transcriptome analysis of plant and pathogen by using de novo assembly was useful for identifying putative key genes in the plant-pathogen interaction.
Transcription factor binding is regulated by several interactions, primarily involving cis-element binding. These binding sites maintain specificity by means of their sequence, and other additional factors such as inter-motif distance and spacer specificity. The ACGT core sequence has been established as a functionally important cis-element which frequently regulates gene expression in synergy with other cis-elements. In this study, we used two monocotyledonous - Oryza sativa and Sorghum bicolor, and two dicotyledonous species - Arabidopsis thaliana and Glycine max to analyze the conservation of co-occurring ACGT core elements in plant promoters with respect to spacer distance between them. Using data generated from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, we also identified conserved regions across all spacers and possible conditions regulating gene promoters with multiple ACGT cis-elements. Our data indicated specific predominant spacer lengths between co-occurring ACGT elements, but these lengths were not universally conserved across all species under analysis. However, the frequency distribution indicated local regions of high correlation among monocots and dicots. Sequence specificity data clearly revealed a preference for G at the first and C at the terminal position of a spacer sequence, suggesting that the G-box motif is the most prevalent for the ACGT class of promoters. Using gene expression databases, we also observed trends suggesting that co-occurring ACGT elements are responsible for gene regulation in response to exogenous stress. Conservation in patterns of ACGT (N) ACGT among orthologous genes also indicated the possibility that emergence of functional significance across species was a result of parallel evolution of these cis-elements. Although the importance of ACGT elements has been acknowledged for several plant species, ours is the first study that attempts to compare their occurrence across four species and analyze conservation among them. The apparent preference for particular spacer distances suggest that these motifs might be implicated in important physiological functions which are yet to be identified. Variations in correlation patterns among monocots and dicots might arise out of differences in transcriptional regulation in the two classes. In accordance with literature, we established the involvement of co-occurring ACGT elements in stress responses and showed how this regulation differs with variation in the ACGT (N) ACGT motif. We believe that our study will be an essential resource in determining optimum spacer length and spacer sequence between ACGT elements for promoter design in future.
Ginger (Zingiber officinale) and turmeric (Curcuma longa) accumulate important pharmacologically active metabolites at high levels in their rhizomes. Despite their importance, relatively little is known regarding gene expression in the rhizomes of ginger and turmeric. In order to identify rhizome-enriched genes and genes encoding specialized metabolism enzymes and pathway regulators, we evaluated an assembled collection of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from eight different ginger and turmeric tissues. Comparisons to publicly available sorghum rhizome ESTs revealed a total of 777 gene transcripts expressed in ginger/turmeric and sorghum rhizomes but apparently absent from other tissues. The list of rhizome-specific transcripts was enriched for genes associated with regulation of tissue growth, development, and transcription. In particular, transcripts for ethylene response factors and AUX/IAA proteins appeared to accumulate in patterns mirroring results from previous studies regarding rhizome growth responses to exogenous applications of auxin and ethylene. Thus, these genes may play important roles in defining rhizome growth and development. Additional associations were made for ginger and turmeric rhizome-enriched MADS box transcription factors, their putative rhizome-enriched homologs in sorghum, and rhizomatous QTLs in rice. Additionally, analysis of both primary and specialized metabolism genes indicates that ginger and turmeric rhizomes are primarily devoted to the utilization of leaf supplied sucrose for the production and/or storage of specialized metabolites associated with the phenylpropanoid pathway and putative type III polyketide synthase gene products. This finding reinforces earlier hypotheses predicting roles of this enzyme class in the production of curcuminoids and gingerols. A significant set of genes were found to be exclusively or preferentially expressed in the rhizome of ginger and turmeric. Specific transcription factors and other regulatory genes were found that were common to the two species and that are excellent candidates for involvement in rhizome growth, differentiation and development. Large classes of enzymes involved in specialized metabolism were also found to have apparent tissue-specific expression, suggesting that gene expression itself may play an important role in regulating metabolite production in these plants.
Senescence is a developmental process which in annual crop plants overlaps with the reproductive phase. Senescence might reduce crop yield when it is induced prematurely under adverse environmental conditions. This review covers the role of senescence for the productivity of crop plants. With the aim to enhance productivity, a number of functional stay-green cultivars have been selected by conventional breeding, in particular of sorghum and maize. In many cases, a positive correlation between leaf area duration and yield has been observed, although in a number of other cases, stay-green cultivars do not display significant effects with regards to productivity. In several crops, the stay-green phenotype is observed to be associated with a higher drought resistance and a better performance under low nitrogen conditions. Among the approaches used to achieve stay-green phenotypes in transgenic plants, the expression of the IPT gene under control of senescence-associated promoters has been the most successful. The promoters employed for senescence-regulated expression contain cis-elements for binding of WRKY transcription factors and factors controlled by abscisic acid. In most crops transformed with such constructs the stay-green character has led to increased biomass, but only in few cases to increased seed yield. A coincidence of drought stress resistance and stay-green trait is observed in many transgenic plants.
Expansion and contraction of microRNA (miRNA) families can be studied in sequenced plant genomes through sequence alignments. Here, we focused on miR169 in sorghum because of its implications in drought tolerance and stem-sugar content. We were able to discover many miR169 copies that have escaped standard genome annotation methods. A new miR169 cluster was found on sorghum chromosome 1. This cluster is composed of the previously annotated sbi-MIR169o together with two newly found MIR169 copies, named sbi-MIR169t and sbi-MIR169u. We also found that a miR169 cluster on sorghum chr7 consisting of sbi-MIR169l, sbi-MIR169m, and sbi-MIR169n is contained within a chromosomal inversion of at least 500 kb that occurred in sorghum relative to Brachypodium, rice, foxtail millet, and maize. Surprisingly, synteny of chromosomal segments containing MIR169 copies with linked bHLH and CONSTANS-LIKE genes extended from Brachypodium to dictotyledonous species such as grapevine, soybean, and cassava, indicating a strong conservation of linkages of certain flowering and/or plant height genes and microRNAs, which may explain linkage drag of drought and flowering traits and would have consequences for breeding new varieties. Furthermore, alignment of rice and sorghum orthologous regions revealed the presence of two additional miR169 gene copies (miR169r and miR169s) on sorghum chr7 that formed an antisense miRNA gene pair. Both copies are expressed and target different set of genes. Synteny-based analysis of microRNAs among different plant species should lead to the discovery of new microRNAs in general and contribute to our understanding of their evolution.
The potential contribution of upstream sequence variation to the unique features of orthologous genes is just beginning to be unraveled. A core subset of stress-associated bZIP transcription factors from rice (Oryza sativa) formed ten clusters of orthologous groups (COG) with genes from the monocot sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and dicot Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The total cis-regulatory information content of each stress-associated COG was examined by phylogenetic footprinting to reveal ortholog-specific, lineage-specific and species-specific conservation patterns. The most apparent pattern observed was the occurrence of spatially conserved 'core modules' among the COGs but not among paralogs. These core modules are comprised of various combinations of two to four putative transcription factor binding site (TFBS) classes associated with either developmental or stress-related functions. Outside the core modules are specific stress (ABA, oxidative, abiotic, biotic) or organ-associated signals, which may be functioning as 'regulatory fine-tuners' and further define lineage-specific and species-specific cis-regulatory signatures. Orthologous monocot and dicot promoters have distinct TFBS classes involved in disease and oxidative-regulated expression, while the orthologous rice and sorghum promoters have distinct combinations of root-specific signals, a pattern that is not particularly conserved in Arabidopsis. Patterns of cis-regulatory conservation imply that each ortholog has distinct signatures, further suggesting that they are potentially unique in a regulatory context despite the presumed conservation of broad biological function during speciation. Based on the observed patterns of conservation, we postulate that core modules are likely primary determinants of basal developmental programming, which may be integrated with and further elaborated by additional intrinsic or extrinsic signals in conjunction with lineage-specific or species-specific regulatory fine-tuners. This synergy may be critical for finer-scale spatio-temporal regulation, hence unique expression profiles of homologous transcription factors from different species with distinct zones of ecological adaptation such as rice, sorghum and Arabidopsis. The patterns revealed from these comparisons set the stage for further empirical validation by functional genomics.
Ultraconserved elements (UCEs), stretches of DNA that are identical between distantly related species, are enigmatic genomic features whose function is not well understood. First identified and characterized in mammals, UCEs have been proposed to play important roles in gene regulation, RNA processing, and maintaining genome integrity. However, because all of these functions can tolerate some sequence variation, their ultraconserved and ultraselected nature is not explained. We investigated whether there are highly conserved DNA elements without genic function in distantly related plant genomes. We compared the genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana and Vitis vinifera; species that diverged ∼115 million years ago (Mya). We identified 36 highly conserved elements with at least 85% similarity that are longer than 55 bp. Interestingly, these elements exhibit properties similar to mammalian UCEs, such that we named them UCE-like elements (ULEs). ULEs are located in intergenic or intronic regions and are depleted from segmental duplications. Like UCEs, ULEs are under strong purifying selection, suggesting a functional role for these elements. As their mammalian counterparts, ULEs show a sharp drop of A+T content at their borders and are enriched close to genes encoding transcription factors and genes involved in development, the latter showing preferential expression in undifferentiated tissues. By comparing the genomes of Brachypodium distachyon and Oryza sativa, species that diverged ∼50 Mya, we identified a different set of ULEs with similar properties in monocots. The identification of ULEs in plant genomes offers new opportunities to study their possible roles in genome function, integrity, and regulation.
A pair of GOLDEN2-LIKE transcription factors is required for normal chloroplast development in land plant species that encompass the range from bryophytes to angiosperms. In the C(4) plant maize, compartmentalized function of the two GLK genes in bundle sheath and mesophyll cells regulates dimorphic chloroplast differentiation, whereas in the C(3) plants Physcomitrella patens and Arabidopsis thaliana the genes act redundantly in all photosynthetic cells. To assess whether the cell-specific function of GLK genes is unique to maize, we analyzed gene expression patterns in the C(4) monocot Sorghum bicolor and C(4) eudicot Cleome gynandra. Compartmentalized expression was observed in S. bicolor, consistent with the development of dimorphic chloroplasts in this species, but not in C. gynandra where bundle sheath and mesophyll chloroplasts are morphologically similar. The generation of single and double mutants demonstrated that GLK genes function redundantly in rice, as in other C(3) plants, despite the fact that GLK gene duplication in monocots preceded the speciation of rice, maize and sorghum. Together with phylogenetic analyses of GLK gene sequences, these data have allowed speculation on the evolutionary trajectory of GLK function. Based on current evidence, most species that retain single GLK genes belong to orders that contain only C(3) species. We therefore propose that the ancestral state is a single GLK gene, and hypothesize that GLK gene duplication enabled sub-functionalization, which in turn enabled cell-specific function in C(4) plants with dimorphic chloroplasts. In this scenario, GLK gene duplication preconditioned the evolution of C(4) physiology that is associated with chloroplast dimorphism.
Plant stilbenes are a small group of phenylpropanoids, which have been detected in at least 72 unrelated plant species and accumulate in response to biotic and abiotic stresses such as infection, wounding, UV-C exposure and treatment with chemicals. Stilbenes are formed via the phenylalanine/polymalonate-route, the last step of which is catalyzed by the enzyme stilbene synthase (STS), a type III polyketide synthase (PKS). Stilbene synthases are closely related to chalcone synthases (CHS), the key enzymes of the flavonoid pathway, as illustrated by the fact that both enzymes share the same substrates. To date, STSs have been cloned from peanut, pine, sorghum and grapevine, the only stilbene-producing fruiting-plant for which the entire genome has been sequenced. Apart from sorghum, STS genes appear to exist as a family of closely related genes in these other plant species. In this study a complete characterization of the STS multigenic family in grapevine has been performed, commencing with the identification, annotation and phylogenetic analysis of all members and integration of this information with a comprehensive set of gene expression analyses including healthy tissues at differential developmental stages and in leaves exposed to both biotic (downy mildew infection) and abiotic (wounding and UV-C exposure) stresses. At least thirty-three full length sequences encoding VvSTS genes were identified, which, based on predicted amino acid sequences, cluster in 3 principal groups designated A, B and C. The majority of VvSTS genes cluster in groups B and C and are located on chr16 whereas the few gene family members in group A are found on chr10. Microarray and mRNA-seq expression analyses revealed different patterns of transcript accumulation between the different groups of VvSTS family members and between VvSTSs and VvCHSs. Indeed, under certain conditions the transcriptional response of VvSTS and VvCHS genes appears to be diametrically opposed suggesting that flow of carbon between these two competing metabolic pathways is tightly regulated at the transcriptional level. This study represents an overview of the expression pattern of each member of the STS gene family in grapevine under both constitutive and stress-induced conditions. The results strongly indicate the existence of a transcriptional subfunctionalization amongst VvSTSs and provide the foundation for further functional investigations about the role and evolution of this large gene family. Moreover, it represents the first study to clearly show the differential regulation of VvCHS and VvSTS genes, suggesting the involvement of transcription factors (TFs) in both the activation and repression of these genes.
Arabidopsis Thaliana HARDY (AtHRD) is a gene with an APETELA 2 / Ethylene Responsive Factor (AP2/ERF) domain linked to improved performance under drought in rice. We hypothesized that the sorghum genome could possess a similar gene product and were motivated to conduct a computational genome scale mining for the protein and analyse its structural and functional properties. AtHRD sequence was used as a query to BLAST against the sorghum genome dataset followed by multiple alignment analysis. A homology model of the target was built using a template detected based on the pair-wise comparison of hidden Markov models for alignments. DNA docking with a matrix of homologous interface contacts was done. Functional and structural analysis of the query and target was conducted using various online servers. A High-scoring segment pair from Chromosome 6 of the sorghum genome in the region between 54948120 and 54948668 had 68 amino acid similarities out of the 184 residues and was 1.4% above twilight zone threshold. The homology model showed 86.8% residues in most favoured regions. The target protein which had an AP2/ERF domain when docked with GCC box DNA motif had conserved residues involved in binding; it had a long unstructured region beyond the AP2 domain with several motifs for the recognition of serine/threonine protein kinase group. The protein model showed that it could bind to a GCC box which is present in several drought responsive genes. The presence of possible signalling domains and intrinsic disorder in the target protein suggest that this could play a role in drought tolerance which is an inherent character of sorghum. These results offer a jumpstart for validation experiments which could pave the way for cis/trans genic improvement of a range of crops.
Cancer is one of the highly virulent diseases known to humankind with a high mortality rate. Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women worldwide. Sorghum is a principal cereal food in many parts of the world, and is critical in folk medicine of Asia and Africa. In the present study, we analyzed the effects of HSE in metastatic breast cancer. Preliminary studies conducted on MDA-MB 231 and MCF-7 xenograft models showed tumor growth suppression by HSE. Western blotting studies conducted both in vivo and in vitro to check the effect of HSE in Jak/STAT pathways. Anti-metastatic effects of HSE were confirmed using both MDA-MB 231 and MCF-7 metastatic animal models. These studies showed that HSE can modulate Jak/STAT pathways, and it hindered the STAT5b/IGF-1R and STAT3/VEGF pathways not only by down-regulating the expression of these signal molecules and but also by preventing their phosphorylation. The expression of angiogenic factors like VEGF, VEGF-R2 and cell cycle regulators like cyclin D, cyclin E, and pRb were found down-regulated by HSE. In addition, it also targets Brk, p53, and HIF-1α for anti-cancer effects. HSE induced G1 phase arrest and migration inhibition in MDA-MB 231 cells. The metastasis of breast cancer to the lungs also found blocked by HSE in the metastatic animal model. Usage of HS as a dietary supplement is an inexpensive natural cancer therapy, without any side effects. We strongly recommend the use of HS as an edible therapeutic agent as it possesses tumor suppression, migration inhibition, and anti-metastatic effects on breast cancer.
MicroRNA-regulation of gene expression plays a key role in the development and response to biotic and abiotic stresses. Deep sequencing analyses accelerate the process of small RNA discovery in many plants and expand our understanding of miRNA-regulated processes. We therefore undertook small RNA sequencing of sugarcane miRNAs in order to understand their complexity and to explore their role in sugarcane biology. A bioinformatics search was carried out to discover novel miRNAs that can be regulated in sugarcane plants submitted to drought and salt stresses, and under pathogen infection. By means of the presence of miRNA precursors in the related sorghum genome, we identified 623 candidates of new mature miRNAs in sugarcane. Of these, 44 were classified as high confidence miRNAs. The biological function of the new miRNAs candidates was assessed by analyzing their putative targets. The set of bona fide sugarcane miRNA includes those likely targeting serine/threonine kinases, Myb and zinc finger proteins. Additionally, a MADS-box transcription factor and an RPP2B protein, which act in development and disease resistant processes, could be regulated by cleavage (21-nt-species) and DNA methylation (24-nt-species), respectively. A large scale investigation of sRNA in sugarcane using a computational approach has identified a substantial number of new miRNAs and provides detailed genotype-tissue-culture miRNA expression profiles. Comparative analysis between monocots was valuable to clarify aspects about conservation of miRNA and their targets in a plant whose genome has not yet been sequenced. Our findings contribute to knowledge of miRNA roles in regulatory pathways in the complex, polyploidy sugarcane genome.
Multicellular eukaryotes demonstrate nongenetic, heritable phenotypic versatility in their adaptation to environmental changes. This inclusive inheritance is composed of interacting epigenetic, maternal, and environmental factors. Yet-unidentified maternal effects can have a pronounced influence on plant phenotypic adaptation to changing environmental conditions. To explore the control of phenotypy in higher plants, we examined the effect of a single plant nuclear gene on the expression and transmission of phenotypic variability in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). MutS HOMOLOG1 (MSH1) is a plant-specific nuclear gene product that functions in both mitochondria and plastids to maintain genome stability. RNA interference suppression of the gene elicits strikingly similar programmed changes in plant growth pattern in six different plant species, changes subsequently heritable independent of the RNA interference transgene. The altered phenotypes reflect multiple pathways that are known to participate in adaptation, including altered phytohormone effects for dwarfed growth and reduced internode elongation, enhanced branching, reduced stomatal density, altered leaf morphology, delayed flowering, and extended juvenility, with conversion to perennial growth pattern in short days. Some of these effects are partially reversed with the application of gibberellic acid. Genetic hemicomplementation experiments show that this phenotypic plasticity derives from changes in chloroplast state. Our results suggest that suppression of MSH1, which occurs under several forms of abiotic stress, triggers a plastidial response process that involves nongenetic inheritance.
In the present study, four full-length Dof (DNA-binding with one finger) genes from Sorghum bicolor namely SbDof1, SbDof19, SbDof23, and SbDof24 were PCR amplified, gel eluted, cloned, and sequenced (accession number HQ540084, HQ540085, HQ540086, and HQ540087, respectively). These sequences were further characterized in silico by subjecting them to homology search, multiple sequence alignment, phylogenetic tree construction, and protein functional analysis, revealing their identity to Dof like proteins. Phylogenetic analysis of cloned SbDof genes along with other reported Dof proteins revealed existence of two major groups A and B, while group A was further bifurcated into two sub-groups (viz., I and II). Motif scan analysis of SbDof proteins revealed the presence of glycine- and alanine-rich profiles in SbDof1, while proline-rich profile was observed in SbDof23. Asparagines, methionine, and serine-rich profiles were common in case of both SbDof19 and SbDof24 proteins. The three dimensional structures of SbDof proteins were predicted by I-TASSER server based on multiple threading method. The modeled structures were refined by energy minimization and their stereo chemical qualities were validated by PROCHECK and QMEAN server indicating the acceptability of the predicted models. The final models were submitted to PMDB database with assigned PMDB IDs, i.e., PM0077395, PM0077396, PM0077397, PM0077398, and PM0076448 for SbDof1, SbDof19, SbDof23, SbDof24, and Dof domain, respectively. Based on gene ontology (GO) terms in I-TASSER server putative functions of modeled SbDof proteins were also predicted.
Sugar metabolism was studied in sweet sorghum (SSV74) that is known to store sugars in the mature internodes and which is reported to give grain yields twice that of a grain sorghum variety (SPV1616). Comparison of sugar accumulation in these two varieties was carried out at three stages of growth and in the upper and lower internodes. In spite of large differences in the level of sugar accumulation, osmolarity of the sap did not vary as significantly in the two varieties. Significant contribution of variety, stage and internode position was seen for the variation observed in sugar content. Though the activities of sugar metabolizing enzymes namely sucrose synthase (in the synthesis and cleavage directions), sucrose phosphate synthase and invertase (cytoplasmic and vacuolar) also varied in a stage- and internode-specific manner in the two varieties, these enzymes did not contribute significantly to the variation observed in sugar content. Transcriptional expression of one sucrose synthase (SUC1), two sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS2 and SPS3) and a vacuolar invertase (INV3) gene were lower in sweet sorghum as compared to grain sorghum. Sweet sorghum also showed lower expression of two sucrose transporters (SUT1 and SUT4), which correlated to higher sugar accumulation in this variety. Differential expression of the sugar metabolizing enzymes and sucrose transporters in sweet and grain sorghum suggest a role for signaling molecules and transcription factors in regulating sugar accumulation observed in the mature internodes of sweet sorghum, which needs to be investigated.
Higher plants exhibit remarkable phenotypic plasticity allowing them to adapt to an extensive range of environmental conditions. Sorghum is a cereal crop that exhibits exceptional tolerance to adverse conditions, in particular, water-limiting environments. This study utilized next generation sequencing (NGS) technology to examine the transcriptome of sorghum plants challenged with osmotic stress and exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) in order to elucidate genes and gene networks that contribute to sorghum's tolerance to water-limiting environments with a long-term aim of developing strategies to improve plant productivity under drought. RNA-Seq results revealed transcriptional activity of 28,335 unique genes from sorghum root and shoot tissues subjected to polyethylene glycol (PEG)-induced osmotic stress or exogenous ABA. Differential gene expression analyses in response to osmotic stress and ABA revealed a strong interplay among various metabolic pathways including abscisic acid and 13-lipoxygenase, salicylic acid, jasmonic acid, and plant defense pathways. Transcription factor analysis indicated that groups of genes may be co-regulated by similar regulatory sequences to which the expressed transcription factors bind. We successfully exploited the data presented here in conjunction with published transcriptome analyses for rice, maize, and Arabidopsis to discover more than 50 differentially expressed, drought-responsive gene orthologs for which no function had been previously ascribed. The present study provides an initial assemblage of sorghum genes and gene networks regulated by osmotic stress and hormonal treatment. We are providing an RNA-Seq data set and an initial collection of transcription factors, which offer a preliminary look into the cascade of global gene expression patterns that arise in a drought tolerant crop subjected to abiotic stress. These resources will allow scientists to query gene expression and functional annotation in response to drought.
Transcription factors of the plant-specific homeodomain leucine zipper IV (HD-ZIP IV) family have been found from moss to higher plants, and several family members have been associated with epidermis-related expression and/or function. In maize (Zea mays), four of the five characterized HD-ZIP IV family members are expressed specifically in the epidermis, one contributes to trichome development, and target genes of another one are involved in cuticle biosynthesis. Assessing the phylogeny, synteny, gene structure, expression, and regulation of the entire family in maize, 12 novel ZmHDZIV genes were identified in the recently sequenced maize genome. Among the 17 genes, eight form homeologous pairs duplicated after the split of maize and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), whereas a fifth duplication is shared with sorghum. All 17 ZmHDZIV genes appear to be derived from a basic module containing seven introns in the coding region. With one possible exception, all 17 ZmHDZIV genes are expressed and show preferential expression in immature reproductive organs. Fourteen of 15 ZmHDZIV genes with detectable expression in laser-dissected tissues exhibit a moderate to very strong expression preference for the epidermis, suggesting that at least in maize, the majority of HD-ZIP IV family members may have epidermis-related functions. Thirteen ZmHDZIV genes carry conserved motifs of 19 and 21 nucleotides in their 3' untranslated region. The strong evolutionary conservation and the size of the conserved motifs in the 3' untranslated region suggest that the expression of HD-ZIP IV genes may be regulated by small RNAs.
The dietary intake of whole grains is known to reduce the incidence of chronic diseases such as obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and cancer. To investigate whether there are anti-adipogenic activities in various Korean cereals, we assessed water extracts of nine cereals. The results showed that treatment of 3T3-L1 adipocytes with Sorghum bicolor L. Moench, Setaria italica Beauvois, or Panicum miliaceum L. extract significantly inhibited adipocyte differentiation, as determined by measuring oil red-O staining, triglyceride accumulation, and glycerol 3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity. Among the nine cereals, P. miliaceum L. showed the highest anti-adipogenic activity. The effects of P. miliaceum L. on mRNA expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1, and the CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-α were evaluated, revealing that the extract significantly decreased the expression of these genes in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, P. miliaceum L. extract changed the ratio of monounsaturated fatty acids to saturated fatty acids in adipocytes, which is related to biological activity and cell characteristics. These results suggest that some cereals efficiently suppress adipogenesis in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. In particular, the effect of P. miliaceum L. on adipocyte differentiation is associated with the downregulation of adipogenic genes and fatty acid accumulation in adipocytes.
The interactions between transcription factors (TFs) and cis-regulatory DNA sequences control gene expression, constituting the essential functional linkages of gene regulatory networks. The aim of this study is to identify and integrate all putative TFs from six grass species: Brachypodium distachyon, maize, rice, sorghum, barley, and wheat with significant information into an integrative database (GramineaeTFDB) for comparative genomics and functional genomics. For each TF, sequence features, promoter regions, domain alignments, GO assignment, FL-cDNA information, if available, and cross-references to various public databases and genetic resources are provided. Additionally, GramineaeTFDB possesses a tool which aids the users to search for putative cis-elements located in the promoter regions of TFs and predict the functions of the TFs using cis-element-based functional prediction approach. We also supplied hyperlinks to expression profiles of those TF genes of maize, rice, and barley, for which data are available. Furthermore, information about the availability of FOX and Ds mutant lines for rice and maize TFs, respectively, are also accessible through hyperlinks. Our study provides an important user-friendly public resource for functional analyses and comparative genomics of grass TFs, and understanding of the architecture of transcriptional regulatory networks and evolution of the TFs in agriculturally important cereal crops.
Auxin response factors (ARFs), member of the plant-specific B3 DNA binding superfamily, target specifically to auxin response elements (AuxREs) in promoters of primary auxin-responsive genes and heterodimerize with Aux/IAA proteins in auxin signaling transduction cascade. In previous research, we have isolated and characterized maize Aux/IAA genes in whole-genome scale. Here, we report the comprehensive analysis of ARF genes in maize. A total of 36 ARF genes were identified and validated from the B73 maize genome through an iterative strategy. Thirty-six maize ARF genes are distributed in all maize chromosomes except chromosome 7. Maize ARF genes expansion is mainly due to recent segmental duplications. Maize ARF proteins share one B3 DNA binding domain which consists of seven-stranded β sheets and two short α helixes. Twelve maize ARFs with glutamine-rich middle regions could be as activators in modulating expression of auxin-responsive genes. Eleven maize ARF proteins are lack of homo- and heterodimerization domains. Putative cis-elements involved in phytohormones and light signaling responses, biotic and abiotic stress adaption locate in promoters of maize ARF genes. Expression patterns vary greatly between clades and sister pairs of maize ARF genes. The B3 DNA binding and auxin response factor domains of maize ARF proteins are primarily subjected to negative selection during selective sweep. The mixed selective forces drive the diversification and evolution of genomic regions outside of B3 and ARF domains. Additionally, the dicot-specific proliferation of ARF genes was detected. Comparative genomics analysis indicated that maize, sorghum and rice duplicate chromosomal blocks containing ARF homologs are highly syntenic. This study provides insights into the distribution, phylogeny and evolution of ARF gene family.
In the present study Dof1 gene of finger millet was cloned and sequenced. In silico analysis reveals 61% identity with the Sorghum bicolor and 57% identity with the Oryza sativa Dof1 sequence. A comparative analysis of gene sequences from different crops and three finger millet genotypes {Brown (PRM-1), Golden (PRM-701) and White (PRM-801)} differing in grain colour, yield and photosynthetic efficiency showed a high degree of sequence identity of Dof1 sequence gene ranging from 22 to 70% as evident from distance matrix of the built phylogenetic tree showing two major clusters. A total of five conserved motifs were observed in Dof1 sequences of different cereals. Motif 1 with multilevel consensus sequence CKNCRRYWTKGGAMRNVPVG contains zinc finger Dof domain. Motif 3 and motif 5 contains protein kinase phosphorylation site. Motif 2 contains Dof domain and zinc finger N-glycosylation site while motif 4 is involved in Zinc finger type profiling. Further, we studied the spatial distribution of Dof1 gene in three vegetative tissues (root, stem and flag leaf) as well as four stages of developing spikes (S1, S2, S3 and S4) of the three finger millet genotypes using qualitative and quantitative PCR based approaches. Physiological parameters (plant height, leaf area, chlorophyll content, SPAD value and photosynthetic efficiency) at the time of flowering was found to be highest in white (PRM-801) genotype followed by golden (PRM-701) and brown (PRM-1) genotype. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR and quantitative real-time PCR analysis revealed that the expression of Dof1 is highest in leaves and lowest in roots, which suggests its role in regulation of photosynthesis-related genes and carbon skeleton synthesis. Also at grain maturity stage, expression of Dof1 was higher in white (PRM-801) genotype followed by golden (PRM-701) and brown (PRM-1) genotype. The result is suggestive of Dof1 role in the accumulation of grain protein and yield attribute through regulation of key enzymes involved in source to sink relationship during grain filling stage.
Ears are the seed-bearing inflorescences of maize (Zea mays) plants and represent a crucial component of maize yield. The first step in the formation of ears is the initiation of axillary meristems in the axils of developing leaves. In the classic maize mutant barren stalk fastigiate1 (baf1), first discovered in the 1950s, ears either do not form or, if they do, are partially fused to the main stalk. We positionally cloned Baf1 and found that it encodes a transcriptional regulator containing an AT-hook DNA binding motif. Single coorthologs of Baf1 are found in syntenic regions of brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon), rice (Oryza sativa), and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), suggesting that the gene is likely present in all cereal species. Protein-protein interaction assays suggest that BAF1 is capable of forming homodimers and heterodimers with other members of the AT-hook family. Another transcriptional regulator required for ear initiation is the basic helix-loop-helix protein BARREN STALK1 (BA1). Genetic and expression analyses suggest that Baf1 is required to reach a threshold level of Ba1 expression for the initiation of maize ears. We propose that Baf1 functions in the demarcation of a boundary region essential for the specification of a stem cell niche.
Flax, Linum usitatissimum L., is an important crop whose seed oil and stem fiber have multiple industrial applications. Flax seeds are also well-known for their nutritional attributes, viz., omega-3 fatty acids in the oil and lignans and mucilage from the seed coat. In spite of the importance of this crop, there are few molecular resources that can be utilized toward improving seed traits. Here, we describe flax embryo and seed development and generation of comprehensive genomic resources for the flax seed. We describe a large-scale generation and analysis of expressed sequences in various tissues. Collectively, the 13 libraries we have used provide a broad representation of genes active in developing embryos (globular, heart, torpedo, cotyledon and mature stages) seed coats (globular and torpedo stages) and endosperm (pooled globular to torpedo stages) and genes expressed in flowers, etiolated seedlings, leaves, and stem tissue. A total of 261,272 expressed sequence tags (EST) (GenBank accessions LIBEST_026995 to LIBEST_027011) were generated. These EST libraries included transcription factor genes that are typically expressed at low levels, indicating that the depth is adequate for in silico expression analysis. Assembly of the ESTs resulted in 30,640 unigenes and 82% of these could be identified on the basis of homology to known and hypothetical genes from other plants. When compared with fully sequenced plant genomes, the flax unigenes resembled poplar and castor bean more than grape, sorghum, rice or Arabidopsis. Nearly one-fifth of these (5,152) had no homologs in sequences reported for any organism, suggesting that this category represents genes that are likely unique to flax. Digital analyses revealed gene expression dynamics for the biosynthesis of a number of important seed constituents during seed development. We have developed a foundational database of expressed sequences and collection of plasmid clones that comprise even low-expressed genes such as those encoding transcription factors. This has allowed us to delineate the spatio-temporal aspects of gene expression underlying the biosynthesis of a number of important seed constituents in flax. Flax belongs to a taxonomic group of diverse plants and the large sequence database will allow for evolutionary studies as well.
The TCP family is an ancient group of plant developmental transcription factors that regulate cell division in vegetative and reproductive structures and are essential in the establishment of flower zygomorphy. In-depth research on eudicot TCPs has documented their evolutionary and developmental role. This has not happened to the same extent in monocots, although zygomorphy has been critical for the diversification of Orchidaceae and Poaceae, the largest families of this group. Investigating the evolution and function of TCP-like genes in a wider group of monocots requires a detailed phylogenetic analysis of all available sequence information and a system that facilitates comparing genetic and functional information. The phylogenetic relationships of TCP-like genes in monocots were investigated by analysing sequences from the genomes of Zea mays, Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa and Sorghum bicolor, as well as EST data from several other monocot species. All available monocot TCP-like sequences are associated in 20 major groups with an average identity ≥64 % and most correspond to well-supported clades of the phylogeny. Their sequence motifs and relationships of orthology were documented and it was found that 67 % of the TCP-like genes of Sorghum, Oryza, Zea and Brachypodium are in microsyntenic regions. This analysis suggests that two rounds of whole genome duplication drove the expansion of TCP-like genes in these species. A system of classification is proposed where putative or recognized monocot TCP-like genes are assigned to a specific clade of PCF-, CIN- or CYC/tb1-like genes. Specific biases in sequence data of this family that must be tackled when studying its molecular evolution and phylogeny are documented. Finally, the significant retention of duplicated TCP genes from Zea mays is considered in the context of balanced gene drive.
Plant bZIP transcription factors play crucial roles in multiple biological processes. However, little is known about the sorghum bZIP gene family although the sorghum genome has been completely sequenced. In this study, we have carried out a genome-wide identification and characterization of this gene family in sorghum. Our data show that the genome encodes at least 92 bZIP transcription factors. These bZIP genes have been expanded mainly by segmental duplication. Such an expansion mechanism has also been observed in rice, arabidopsis and many other plant organisms, suggesting a common expansion mode of this gene family in plants. Further investigation shows that most of the bZIP members have been present in the most recent common ancestor of sorghum and rice and the major expansion would occur before the sorghum-rice split era. Although these bZIP genes have been duplicated with a long history, they exhibited limited functional divergence as shown by nonsynonymous substitutions (Ka)/synonymous substitutions (Ks) analyses. Their retention was mainly due to the high percentages of expression divergence. Our data also showed that this gene family might play a role in multiple developmental stages and tissues and might be regarded as important regulators of various abiotic stresses and sugar signaling.
The Dof (DNA binding with One Finger) family represents a classic zinc-finger transcription factors involved with multifarious roles exclusively in plants. There exists great diversity in terms of number of Dof genes observed in different crops. In current study, a total of 28 putative Dof genes have been predicted in silico from the recently available whole genome shotgun sequence of Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench (with assigned accession numbers TPA:BK006983-BK007006 and TPA:BK007079-BK007082). The predicted SbDof genes are distributed on nine out of ten chromosomes of sorghum and most of these genes lack introns based on canonical intron/exon structure. Phylogenetic analysis of 28 SbDof proteins resulted in four subgroups constituting six clusters. The comparative phylogenetic analysis of these Dof proteins along with 30 rice and 36 Arabidopsis Dof proteins revealed six major groups similar to what has been observed earlier for rice and Arabidopsis. Motif analysis revealed the presence of conserved 50-52 amino acids Dof domain uniformly distributed across all the 28 Dof proteins of sorghum. The in silico cis-regulatory elements analysis of these SbDof genes suggested its diverse functions associated with light responsiveness, endosperm specific gene expression, hormone responsiveness, meristem specific expression and stress responsiveness.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small regulatory RNAs, some of which are conserved in diverse plant genomes. Therefore, computational identification and further experimental validation of miRNAs from non-model organisms is both feasible and instrumental for addressing miRNA-based gene regulation and evolution. Sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) is an important biofuel crop with publicly available expressed sequence tag and genomic survey sequence databases, but little is known about miRNAs and their targets in this highly polyploid species. In this study, we have computationally identified 19 distinct sugarcane miRNA precursors, of which several are highly similar with their sorghum homologs at both nucleotide and secondary structure levels. The accumulation pattern of mature miRNAs varies in organs/tissues from the commercial sugarcane hybrid as well as in its corresponding founder species S. officinarum and S. spontaneum. Using sugarcane MIR827 as a query, we found a novel MIR827 precursor in the sorghum genome. Based on our computational tool, a total of 46 potential targets were identified for the 19 sugarcane miRNAs. Several targets for highly conserved miRNAs are transcription factors that play important roles in plant development. Conversely, target genes of lineage-specific miRNAs seem to play roles in diverse physiological processes, such as SsCBP1. SsCBP1 was experimentally confirmed to be a target for the monocot-specific miR528. Our findings support the notion that the regulation of SsCBP1 by miR528 is shared at least within graminaceous monocots, and this miRNA-based post-transcriptional regulation evolved exclusively within the monocots lineage after the divergence from eudicots. Using publicly available nucleotide databases, 19 sugarcane miRNA precursors and one new sorghum miRNA precursor were identified and classified into 14 families. Comparative analyses between sugarcane and sorghum suggest that these two species retain homologous miRNAs and targets in their genomes. Such conservation may help to clarify specific aspects of miRNA regulation and evolution in the polyploid sugarcane. Finally, our dataset provides a framework for future studies on sugarcane RNAi-dependent regulatory mechanisms.
This study was undertaken to investigate the hypothesis that whole grain consumption would have beneficial effects on lipid profiles, antioxidant status, and the inflammation state of hyperlipidemic rats compared to those resulting from a white rice (WR) diet. Forty-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 24) were fed a high-fat diet (188.3 kJ% energy as fat) for 8 weeks to induce hyperlipidemia and were then randomly divided into 4 groups (n = 6 each) that were fed diets containing WR (control), sorghum, foxtail millet (FM), or proso millet for the next 5 weeks. Blood lipid profiles, hepatic antioxidant parameters, and inflammation-related measurements were determined in all of the groups. The concentrations of serum triglycerides were significantly lower in the FM and proso millet groups compared to those of the WR and sorghum groups. The concentrations of serum total, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol were significantly higher in the sorghum group than in the WR, FM, and proso millet groups. Hepatic catalase, superoxide dismutase, and glutathione activities, as well as thiobarbituric acid reactive substance levels were not significantly different between the groups. Levels of C-reactive protein were significantly lower in the FM group than in the WR, sorghum, and proso millet groups. Inhibitor kappaB-alpha was expressed in the liver cytosolic fraction, and nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-kappaB (p65) into the liver nucleus was blocked in all groups. In conclusion, FM and proso millet may prevent cardiovascular disease by reducing plasma triglycerides in hyperlipidemic rats; in contrast, sorghum increases total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, and LDL-cholesterol concentrations.
Genes coding for drought response element binding (DREB) proteins regulate transcription of a large number of downstream genes involved in the plant response to abiotic stresses. However the regulation of DREB genes themselves is not well understood. Using a bioinformatics approach, we identified the over-represented motifs in promoters of DREB genes of sorghum and rice as compared to all the other promoters in their genomes. Aligned orthologous promoter pairs of sorghum and rice DREBs were then used to identify co-localized motifs from among the over-represented ones, assuming that such motifs were likely to play a regulatory role. Finally the motifs over-represented in sorghum DREBs in comparison to their rice orthologs were identified. Results indicated over-representation of motifs pertaining to calcium, light, sugar, and hormone signaling in the DREB promoters. The co-localized motifs in DREB promoters were mainly those involved in abscisic acid-, light- and calcium-mediated regulation. These motifs along with others pertaining to ethylene signaling were over-represented in sorghum DREB promoters as compared to their orthologs from rice and could possibly contribute to its drought tolerance. Besides calcium, an integration of abscisic acid, ethylene, auxin and methyl jasmonate signaling was probably involved in regulating expression of the drought response through DREB transcription factors.
The ethylene-responsive element binding factor-associated amphiphilic repression (EAR) motif is a transcriptional regulatory motif identified in members of the ethylene-responsive element binding factor, C2H2, and auxin/indole-3-acetic acid families of transcriptional regulators. Sequence comparison of the core EAR motif sites from these proteins revealed two distinct conservation patterns: LxLxL and DLNxxP. Proteins containing these motifs play key roles in diverse biological functions by negatively regulating genes involved in developmental, hormonal, and stress signaling pathways. Through a genome-wide bioinformatics analysis, we have identified the complete repertoire of the EAR repressome in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) comprising 219 proteins belonging to 21 different transcriptional regulator families. Approximately 72% of these proteins contain a LxLxL type of EAR motif, 22% contain a DLNxxP type of EAR motif, and the remaining 6% have a motif where LxLxL and DLNxxP are overlapping. Published in vitro and in planta investigations support approximately 40% of these proteins functioning as negative regulators of gene expression. Comparative sequence analysis of EAR motif sites and adjoining regions has identified additional preferred residues and potential posttranslational modification sites that may influence the functionality of the EAR motif. Homology searches against protein databases of poplar (Populus trichocarpa), grapevine (Vitis vinifera), rice (Oryza sativa), and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) revealed that the EAR motif is conserved across these diverse plant species. This genome-wide analysis represents the most extensive survey of EAR motif-containing proteins in Arabidopsis to date and provides a resource enabling investigations into their biological roles and the mechanism of EAR motif-mediated transcriptional regulation.
In Sorghum bicolor, a group of phytoalexins are induced at the site of infection by Colletotrichum sublineolum, the anthracnose fungus. These compounds, classified as 3-deoxyanthocyanidins, have structural similarities to the precursors of phlobaphenes. Sorghum yellow seed1 (y1) encodes a MYB transcription factor that regulates phlobaphene biosynthesis. Using the candystripe1 transposon mutagenesis system in sorghum, we have isolated functional revertants as well as loss-of-function alleles of y1. These near-isogenic lines of sorghum show that, compared to functionally revertant alleles, loss of y1 lines do not accumulate phlobaphenes. Molecular characterization of two null y1 alleles shows a partial internal deletion in the y1 sequence. These null alleles, designated as y1-ww1 and y1-ww4, do not accumulate 3-deoxyanthocyanidins when challenged with the nonpathogenic fungus Cochliobolus heterostrophus. Further, as compared to the wild-type allele, both y1-ww1 and y1-ww4 show greater susceptibility to the pathogenic fungus C. sublineolum. In fungal-inoculated wild-type seedlings, y1 and its target flavonoid structural genes are coordinately expressed. However, in y1-ww1 and y1-ww4 seedlings where y1 is not expressed, steady-state transcripts of its target genes could not be detected. Cosegregation analysis showed that the functional y1 gene is genetically linked with resistance to C. sublineolum. Overall results demonstrate that the accumulation of sorghum 3-deoxyanthocyanidin phytoalexins and resistance to C. sublineolum in sorghum require a functional y1 gene.
Full-length cDNA (FLcDNA) sequencing establishes the precise primary structure of individual gene transcripts. From two libraries representing 27 B73 tissues and abiotic stress treatments, 27,455 high-quality FLcDNAs were sequenced. The average transcript length was 1.44 kb including 218 bases and 321 bases of 5' and 3' UTR, respectively, with 8.6% of the FLcDNAs encoding predicted proteins of fewer than 100 amino acids. Approximately 94% of the FLcDNAs were stringently mapped to the maize genome. Although nearly two-thirds of this genome is composed of transposable elements (TEs), only 5.6% of the FLcDNAs contained TE sequences in coding or UTR regions. Approximately 7.2% of the FLcDNAs are putative transcription factors, suggesting that rare transcripts are well-enriched in our FLcDNA set. Protein similarity searching identified 1,737 maize transcripts not present in rice, sorghum, Arabidopsis, or poplar annotated genes. A strict FLcDNA assembly generated 24,467 non-redundant sequences, of which 88% have non-maize protein matches. The FLcDNAs were also assembled with 41,759 FLcDNAs in GenBank from other projects, where semi-strict parameters were used to identify 13,368 potentially unique non-redundant sequences from this project. The libraries, ESTs, and FLcDNA sequences produced from this project are publicly available. The annotated EST and FLcDNA assemblies are available through the maize FLcDNA web resource (www.maizecdna.org).
Transcription factors (TFs) are major players in gene regulatory networks and interactions between TFs and their target genes furnish spatiotemporal patterns of gene expression. Establishing the architecture of regulatory networks requires gathering information on TFs, their targets in the genome, and the corresponding binding sites. We have developed GRASSIUS (Grass Regulatory Information Services) as a knowledge-based Web resource that integrates information on TFs and gene promoters across the grasses. In its initial implementation, GRASSIUS consists of two separate, yet linked, databases. GrassTFDB holds information on TFs from maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), sugarcane (Saccharum spp.), and rice (Oryza sativa). TFs are classified into families and phylogenetic relationships begin to uncover orthologous relationships among the participating species. This database also provides a centralized clearinghouse for TF synonyms in the grasses. GrassTFDB is linked to the grass TFome collection, which provides clones in recombination-based vectors corresponding to full-length open reading frames for a growing number of grass TFs. GrassPROMDB contains promoter and cis-regulatory element information for those grass species and genes for which enough data are available. The integration of GrassTFDB and GrassPROMDB will be accomplished through GrassRegNet as a first step in representing the architecture of grass regulatory networks. GRASSIUS can be accessed from www.grassius.org.
In plant tissue culture, developmental disturbance and mutagenic factors are involved in channeling an individual totipotent cell to an intact plant. Comparing a pair of sorghum reciprocal F(1) hybrids with their parental pure lines revealed a dramatic difference in the occurrence of both genetic and DNA methylation alterations in the respective regenerated plants. In contrast to those of the pure lines, regenerated plants of hybrids exhibit significantly enhanced genetic and epigenetic stability. The genetic changes detected by amplified fragment length polymorphism and the DNA methylation alterations detected by methylation-sensitive amplified polymorphism are intimately correlated with each other, suggesting a common mechanism underlying both kinds of instabilities. Markedly altered transcription of genes encoding four putative sorghum DNA methyltransferases and two 5-methylcytosine glycosylases with nucleotide sequences orthologous to Arabidopsis counterparts was induced by tissue culture. The steady-state transcript levels of these genes were negatively correlated with genetic and methylation alterations. A salient observation is that tissue culture-induced transcription of genes encoding DNA methyltransferases and 5-methylcytosine glycosylases in calli and/or regenerated plants of the hybrids was remarkably coordinated, but is largely uncoordinated and stochastically altered in calli and/or regenerated plants of the pure lines. We suggest that the uncoordinated regulation of expression of DNA methyltransferases and 5-methylcytosine glycosylases is a major cause of the high incidence of genetic and DNA methylation alterations in cultures of pure lines, but coordinated up-regulated expression of these enzymes in cultures of the F(1) hybrids fortified their genetic and epigenetic stability.
Aluminum-activated root malate and citrate exudation play an important role in plant Al tolerance. This paper characterizes AtMATE, a homolog of the recently discovered sorghum and barley Al-tolerance genes, shown here to encode an Al-activated citrate transporter in Arabidopsis. Together with the previously characterized Al-activated malate transporter, AtALMT1, this discovery allowed us to examine the relationship in the same species between members of the two gene families for which Al-tolerance genes have been identified. AtMATE is expressed primarily in roots and is induced by Al. An AtMATE T-DNA knockdown line exhibited very low AtMATE expression and Al-activated root citrate exudation was abolished. The AtALMT1 AtMATE double mutant lacked both Al-activated root malate and citrate exudation and showed greater Al sensitivity than the AtALMT1 mutant. Therefore, although AtALMT1 is a major contributor to Arabidopsis Al tolerance, AtMATE also makes a significant but smaller contribution. The expression patterns of AtALMT1 and AtMATE and the profiles of Al-activated root citrate and malate exudation are not affected by the presence or absence of the other gene. These results suggest that AtALMT1-mediated malate exudation and AtMATE-mediated citrate exudation evolved independently to confer Al tolerance in Arabidopsis. However, a link between regulation of expression of the two transporters in response to Al was identified through work on STOP1, a transcription factor that was previously shown to be necessary for AtALMT1 expression. Here we show that STOP1 is also required for AtMATE expression and Al-activated citrate exudation.
Apomixis, asexual reproduction through seed, is widespread among angiosperm families. Gametophytic apomixis in Pennisetum squamulatum and Cenchrus ciliaris is controlled by the apospory-specific genomic region (ASGR), which is highly conserved and macrosyntenic between these species. Thirty-two ASGR bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) isolated from both species and one ASGR-recombining BAC from P. squamulatum, which together cover approximately 2.7 Mb of DNA, were used to investigate the genomic structure of this region. Phrap assembly of 4,521 high-quality reads generated 1,341 contiguous sequences (contigs; 730 from the ASGR and 30 from the ASGR-recombining BAC in P. squamulatum, plus 580 from the C. ciliaris ASGR). Contigs containing putative protein-coding regions unrelated to transposable elements were identified based on protein similarity after Basic Local Alignment Search Tool X analysis. These putative coding regions were further analyzed in silico with reference to the rice (Oryza sativa) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) genomes using the resources at Gramene (www.gramene.org) and Phytozome (www.phytozome.net) and by hybridization against sorghum BAC filters. The ASGR sequences reveal that the ASGR (1) contains both gene-rich and gene-poor segments, (2) contains several genes that may play a role in apomictic development, (3) has many classes of transposable elements, and (4) does not exhibit large-scale synteny with either rice or sorghum genomes but does contain multiple regions of microsynteny with these species.
The INDETERMINATE1 (ID1) transcription factor is a key regulator of the transition to flowering in maize. ID1 is expressed in immature leaves where it controls the production or transmission of leaf-derived florigenic signals. Loss-of-function id1 mutants make many more leaves than normal plants and produce aberrant flowers; however, they exhibit no obvious developmental defects in early growth stages. A maize oligonucleotide microarray was used to assess the molecular differences between immature leaves of wild-type and id1 mutant plants prior to the floral transition. This analysis revealed 55 genes with a significant 2-fold difference in expression; 22 are down-regulated and 33 are up-regulated in id1 mutants. Most prominent is a novel family of three beta-glucosidase genes that are most closely related to sorghum dhurrinases. These genes, termed Zmdhr1, Zmdhr2, and Zmdhr3, are undetectable in immature leaves of id1 mutants and are expressed exclusively in normal immature leaves in a pattern identical to the ID1 gene. Other down-regulated genes include a group of four zinc finger protein-encoding genes that are unrelated to ID1. A significant number of genes up-regulated in id1 mutant immature leaves have potential roles in photosynthesis and carbon fixation, substantiating a possible connection between floral induction and assimilate partitioning. Finally, expression of these genes was compared in florally induced versus uninduced teosinte, a photoperiod-sensitive progenitor of day-neutral maize. Only a few genes showed expression differences, suggesting that ID1 acts in a novel autonomous floral induction pathway that is distinct from the photoperiod induction pathway.
Isoamyl acetate, produced via fermentation, is a natural flavor chemical with applications in the food industry. Two alcohol acetyltransferases from Saccharomyces cerevisiae (ATF1 and ATF2) can catalyze the esterification of isoamyl alcohol with acetyl coenzyme A. The respective genes were cloned and expressed in an appropriate ack-pta(-) strain of Escherichia coli. The engineered strains produce isoamyl acetate when isoamyl alcohol is added to the culture medium. Aerobic shake flask experiments examined isoamyl acetate production over various growth times, temperatures, and initial optical densities. The strain carrying the pBAD-ATF1 plasmid exhibited a high molar ester yield from glucose (1.13) after 48 h of aerobic growth at 25 degrees C. Low-cost media components, such as fusel oil, sorghum glucose and corn steep liquor, were found to give a high yield of isoamyl acetate. High-cell-density gave an increased isoamyl acetate yield of 0.18 g/g of glucose consumed.
Flowering time is a fundamental trait of maize adaptation to different agricultural environments. Although a large body of information is available on the map position of quantitative trait loci for flowering time, little is known about the molecular basis of quantitative trait loci. Through positional cloning and association mapping, we resolved the major flowering-time quantitative trait locus, Vegetative to generative transition 1 (Vgt1), to an approximately 2-kb noncoding region positioned 70 kb upstream of an Ap2-like transcription factor that we have shown to be involved in flowering-time control. Vgt1 functions as a cis-acting regulatory element as indicated by the correlation of the Vgt1 alleles with the transcript expression levels of the downstream gene. Additionally, within Vgt1, we identified evolutionarily conserved noncoding sequences across the maize-sorghum-rice lineages. Our results support the notion that changes in distant cis-acting regulatory regions are a key component of plant genetic adaptation throughout breeding and evolution.
To clarify the molecular mechanism that regulates iron (Fe) acquisition in graminaceous plants, a time-course analysis of gene expression during Fe deficiency stress was conducted using a rice 22K oligo-DNA microarray. Twenty-one genes for proteins that function in gene regulation were induced by Fe deficiency. Of these genes, a putative basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor gene, named OsIRO2, was strongly expressed in both roots and shoots during Fe deficiency stress. The expression of OsIRO2 was induced exclusively by Fe deficiency, and not by deficiencies in other metals. Expression of the barley HvIRO2 gene, which is a homologue of OsIRO2, was also induced by Fe deficiency. An in silico search revealed that IRO2 is highly conserved among graminaceous plants, which include wheat, sorghum, and maize. The cyclic amplification and selection of targets (CASTing) technique revealed that OsIRO2 bound preferentially to the sequence 5'-ACCACGTGGTTTT-3', and the electrophoretic mobility shift assay revealed 5'-CACGTGG-3' as the core sequence for OsIRO2 binding. Sequences similar to the OsIRO2-binding sequence were found upstream of several genes that are involved in Fe acquisition, such as OsNAS1, OsNAS3, OsIRT1, OsFDH, OsAPT1, and IDS3. The core sequence of the OsIRO2-binding sequence occurred more frequently in the upstream regions of Fe deficiency-inducible genes than in the corresponding regions of non-inducible genes. These results suggest that IRO2 is involved in the regulation of gene expression under Fe-deficient conditions.
The maize INDETERMINATE1 gene, ID1, is a key regulator of the transition to flowering and the founding member of a transcription factor gene family that encodes a protein with a distinct arrangement of zinc finger motifs. The zinc fingers and surrounding sequence make up the signature ID domain (IDD), which appears to be found in all higher plant genomes. The presence of zinc finger domains and previous biochemical studies showing that ID1 binds to DNA suggests that members of this gene family are involved in transcriptional regulation. Comparison of IDD genes identified in Arabidopsis and rice genomes, and all IDD genes discovered in maize EST and genomic databases, suggest that ID1 is a unique member of this gene family. High levels of sequence similarity amongst all IDD genes from maize, rice and Arabidopsis suggest that they are derived from a common ancestor. Several unique features of ID1 suggest that it is a divergent member of the maize IDD family. Although no clear ID1 ortholog was identified in the Arabidopsis genome, highly similar genes that encode proteins with identity extending beyond the ID domain were isolated from rice and sorghum. Phylogenetic comparisons show that these putative orthologs, along with maize ID1, form a group separate from other IDD genes. In contrast to ID1 mRNA, which is detected exclusively in immature leaves, several maize IDD genes showed a broad range of expression in various tissues. Further, Western analysis with an antibody that cross-reacts with ID1 protein and potential orthologs from rice and sorghum shows that all three proteins are detected in immature leaves only. Comparative genomic analysis shows that the IDD zinc finger family is highly conserved among both monocots and dicots. The leaf-specific ID1 expression pattern distinguishes it from other maize IDD genes examined. A similar leaf-specific localization pattern was observed for the putative ID1 protein orthologs from rice and sorghum. These similarities between ID1 and closely related genes in other grasses point to possible similarities in function.
Light is one of the environmental signals that regulate the development of shoot architecture. Molecular mechanisms regulating shoot branching by light signals have not been investigated in detail. Analyses of light signaling mutants defective in branching provide insight into the molecular events associated with the phenomenon. It is well documented that phytochrome B (phyB) mutant plants display constitutive shade avoidance responses, including increased plant height and enhanced apical dominance. We investigated the phyB-1 mutant sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and analyzed the expression of the sorghum Teosinte Branched1 gene (SbTB1), which encodes a putative transcription factor that suppresses bud outgrowth, and the sorghum dormancy-associated gene (SbDRM1), a marker of bud dormancy. Buds are formed in the leaf axils of phyB-1; however, they enter into dormancy soon after their formation. The dormant state of phyB-1 buds is confirmed by the high level of expression of the SbDRM1 gene. The level of SbTB1 mRNA is higher in the buds of phyB-1 compared to wild type, suggesting that phyB mediates the growth of axillary shoots in response to light signals in part by regulating the mRNA abundance of SbTB1. These results are confirmed by growing wild-type seedlings with supplemental far-red light that induces shade avoidance responses. We hypothesize that active phyB (Pfr) suppresses the expression of the SbTB1 gene, thereby inducing bud outgrowth, whereas environmental conditions that inactivate phyB allow increased expression of SbTB1, thereby suppressing bud outgrowth.
Sequence characterization of the genomic region of sorghum yellow seed 1 shows the presence of two genes that are arranged in a head to tail orientation. The two duplicated gene copies, y1 and y2 are separated by a 9.084 kbp intergenic region, which is largely composed of highly repetitive sequences. The y1 is the functional copy, while the y2 may represent a pseudogene; there are several sequence indels and rearrangements within the putative coding region of y2. The y1 gene encodes a R2R3 type of Myb domain protein that regulates the expression of chalcone synthase, chalcone isomerase and dihydroflavonol reductase genes required for the biosynthesis of 3-deoxyflavonoids. Expression of y1 can be observed throughout the plant and it represents a combination of expression patterns produced by different alleles of the maize p1. Comparative sequence analysis within the coding regions and flanking sequences of y1, y2 and their maize and teosinte orthologs show local rearrangements and insertions that may have created modified regulatory regions. These micro-colinearity modifications possibly are responsible for differential patterns of expression in maize and sorghum floral and vegetative tissues. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that sorghum y1 and y2 sequences may have arisen by gene duplication mechanisms and represent an evolutionarily parallel event to the duplication of maize p2 and p1 genes.
Genetic control of grass inflorescence architecture is critical given that cereal seeds provide most of the world's food. Seeds are borne on axillary branches, which arise from groups of stem cells in axils of leaves and whose branching patterns dictate most of the variation in plant form. Normal maize (Zea mays) ears are unbranched, and tassels have long branches only at their base. The ramosa2 (ra2) mutant of maize has increased branching with short branches replaced by long, indeterminate ones. ra2 was cloned by chromosome walking and shown to encode a LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARY domain transcription factor. ra2 is transiently expressed in a group of cells that predicts the position of axillary meristem formation in inflorescences. Expression in different mutant backgrounds places ra2 upstream of other genes that regulate branch formation. The early expression of ra2 suggests that it functions in the patterning of stem cells in axillary meristems. Alignment of ra2-like sequences reveals a grass-specific domain in the C terminus that is not found in Arabidopsis thaliana. The ra2-dm allele suggests this domain is required for transcriptional activation of ra1. The ra2 expression pattern is conserved in rice (Oryza sativa), barley (Hordeum vulgare), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and maize, suggesting that ra2 is critical for shaping the initial steps of grass inflorescence architecture.
The external appearance of flowering plants is determined to a large extent by the forms of flower-bearing branch systems, known as inflorescences, and their position in the overall structure of the plant. Branches and branching patterns are produced by tissues called shoot apical meristems. Thus, inflorescence architecture reflects meristem number, arrangement and activity, and the duration of meristem activity correlates with branch length. The inflorescences of maize, unlike those of related grasses such as rice and sorghum, predominantly lack long branches, giving rise to the tassel and familiar corncob. Here we report the isolation of the maize ramosa1 gene and show that it controls inflorescence architecture. Through its expression in a boundary domain near the nascent meristem base, ramosa1 imposes short branch identity as branch meristems are initiated. A second gene, ramosa2, acts through ramosa1 by regulating ramosa1 gene expression levels. ramosa1 encodes a transcription factor that appears to be absent in rice, is heterochronically expressed in sorghum, and may have played an important role in maize domestication and grass evolution.
C4 plants, including maize, Flaveria, amaranth, sorghum, and an amphibious sedge Eleocharis vivipara, have been employed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms and signaling pathways that control C4 photosynthesis gene expression. Current evidence suggests that pre-existing genes were recruited for the C4 pathway after acquiring potent and surprisingly diverse regulatory elements. This review emphasizes recent advances in our understanding of the creation of C4 genes, the activities of the C4 gene promoters consisting of synergistic and combinatorial enhancers and silencers, the use of 5' and 3' untranslated regions for transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulations, and the function of novel transcription factors. The research has also revealed new insights into unique or universal mechanisms underlying cell-type specificity, coordinate nuclear-chloroplast actions, hormonal, metabolic, stress and light responses, and the control of enzymatic activities by phosphorylation and reductive processes.
Myb domain proteins contain a conserved DNA-binding domain composed of one to four conserved repeat motifs. In animals, Myb proteins are encoded by a small gene family and commonly contain three repeat motifs (R1R2R3); whereas, plant Myb proteins are encoded by a very large and diverse gene family in which a motif containing two repeats (R2R3) is the most common. In contrast to the conservation in the Myb domain, other regions of Myb proteins are highly variable. To explore the evolutionary origin of Myb genes, we cloned and sequenced Myb domains from maize and sorghum, and conducted a comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of Myb genes. The results indicate that the origins of individual Myb repeats are strikingly distinct, and that the R2 repeat has evolved more slowly than the R1 and R3 repeats. However, it is not clear which repeat is the most ancient one. The evidence also suggests that R2R3 and R1R2R3 Myb genes co-existed in eukaryotes before the divergence of plants and animals. Based on our results, we propose that R1R2R3 Myb genes were derived from R2R3 Myb genes by gain of the R1 repeat through an ancient intragenic duplication; this gain model is more parsimonious than the previous proposal that R2R3 Myb genes were derived from R1R2R3 Mybs by loss of the R1 repeat. A separate group of diverse non-typical Myb proteins exhibits a polyphyletic origin and a complex evolutionary pattern. Finally, a small group of ancient Myb paralogs prior to the amplification of current Myb genes is identified. Together, these results support a new model for the ordered evolution of Myb gene family.
Two maize genes with predicted translational similarity to the Arabidopsis FIE (Fertilization-Independent Endosperm) protein, a repressor of endosperm development in the absence of fertilization, were cloned and analyzed. Genomic sequences of fie1 and fie2 show significant homology within coding regions but none within introns or 5' upstream. The fie1 gene is expressed exclusively in the endosperm of developing kernels starting at approximately 6 days after pollination. fie1 is an imprinted gene showing no detectable expression of the paternally derived fie1 allele during kernel development. Conversely, fie2 is expressed in the embryo sac before pollination. After pollination, its expression persists, predominantly in the embryo and at lower levels in the endosperm. The paternal fie2 allele is not expressed early in kernel development, but its transcription is activated at 5 days after pollination. fie2 is likely to be a functional ortholog of the Arabidopsis FIE gene, whereas fie1 has evolved a distinct function. The maize FIE2 and sorghum FIE proteins form a monophyletic group, sharing a closer relationship to each other than to the FIE1 protein, suggesting that maize fie genes originated from two different ancestral genomes.
Human herpesvirus-8 (HHV-8) is etiologically associated with Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), body cavity-based lymphoma (BCBL), and multicentric Castleman's disease (MCD). These HHV-8-associated diseases arise predominantly in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) patients. Human interleukin-6 (huIL-6) elevated in the serum of AIDS patients is suggested to stimulate the growth of KS and BCBL and to augment the symptoms of MCD. To determine whether huIL-6 stimulates HHV-8 replication directly, expression of the HHV-8 ORF-50 immediate-early gene (transcription activator) and ORF-26 late lytic gene (a capsid protein) was assessed in a BCBL-1 cell line stimulated by huIL-6 by means of real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. huIL-6 induced both ORF-50 and ORF-26 expression, and the maximal ORF-50 expression appeared earlier than that of ORF-26. The data indicate that huIL-6 reactivates HHV-8 in BCBL-1 cells through inducing ORF-50. We also confirmed the previously reported activities of HHV-8-encoded huIL-6 homologue (viral interleukin-6 [vIL-6]) on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) replication in U1 cell line and huIL-6 production by MT-4 T cells, and utilizing monoclonal antibodies to the huIL-6 receptor components, we elucidated that gp130 is the signaling molecule necessary for these vIL-6 activities. These data suggest the possible existence of interaction between HIV and HHV-8 via IL-6, and that the blockade of IL-6 signal by anti-IL-6R antibody or anti-gp130 antibody can constitute a strategy to treat HIV/HHV-8 dually infected patients.
The content of the cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) varies depending on plant age and growth conditions. The cyanide potential is highest shortly after onset of germination. At this stage, nitrogen application has no effect on dhurrin content, whereas in older plants, nitrogen application induces an increase. At all stages, the content of dhurrin correlates well with the activity of the two biosynthetic enzymes, CYP79A1 and CYP71E1, and with the protein and mRNA level for the two enzymes. During development, the activity of CYP79A1 is lower than the activity of CYP71E1, suggesting that CYP79A1 catalyzes the rate-limiting step in dhurrin synthesis as has previously been shown using etiolated seedlings. The site of dhurrin synthesis shifts from leaves to stem during plant development. In combination, the results demonstrate that dhurrin content in sorghum is largely determined by transcriptional regulation of the biosynthetic enzymes CYP79A1 and CYP71E1.
Vp1 is a seed-specific gene involved in the control of dormancy and germination. We here present the complete sequence of the sorghum vp1 promoter/enhancer region highlighting its main features, especially the lack of canonical TATA and CAAT boxes and the presence of elements responsive to abscisic acid and light. The region closest to the start of transcription is highly homologous to the partial proximal sequence reported for the maize vp1 promoter. This region is interrupted by a 57-nt stretch containing 14 CT microsatellite repeats. We observed a poor overall homology to the promoter from abi3 gene, the Arabidopsis counterpart bearing a similar coding sequence. However, there exists a high degree of homology (89%) between a TATA-rich 103-bp stretch of the sorghum vp1 promoter located about 700 nt upstream of the startpoint and miniature inverted transposable elements (MITEs) interspersed within the sorghum seed-specific kafirin cluster. This sorghum MITE-like element displays considerable homology (68%) to the TATA-less promoter from the sorghum NADP-malate dehydrogenase gene and lesser similarity to the Tourist, Pilgrim and Batuta MITEs previously identified within the promoter from the maize Abp1 (auxin-binding protein) gene.
Pre-harvest sprouting (PHS) in sorghum is related to the lack of a normal dormancy level during seed development and maturation. Based on previous evidence that seed dormancy in maize is controlled by the vp1 gene, we used a PCR-based approach to isolate two Sorghum bicolor genomic and cDNA clones from two genotypes exhibiting different PHS behaviour and sensitivity to abscisic acid (ABA). The two 699 amino acid predicted protein sequences differ in two residues at positions 341 (Gly or Cys within the repression domain) and 448 (Pro or Ser) and show over 80, 70 and 60% homology to maize, rice and oat VP1 proteins respectively. Expression analysis of the sorghum vp1 gene in the two lines shows a slightly higher level of vp1 mRNA in the embryos susceptible to PHS than in those resistant to PHS during embryogenesis. However, timing of expression was different between these genotypes during this developmental process. Whereas for the former the main peak of expression was observed at 20 days after pollination (DAP), the peak in the latter was found at later developmental stages when seed maturation was almost complete. Under favourable germination conditions and in the presence of fluridone (an inhibitor of ABA biosynthesis), sorghum vp1 mRNA showed to be consistently correlated with sensitivity to ABA but not with ABA content and dormancy.
A series of endosperm transfer layer-specific transcripts has been identified in maize by differential screening of a cDNA library of transcripts at 10 days after pollination. Sequence comparisons revealed among this class of cDNAs a novel, small gene family of highly diverged sequences encoding basal layer antifungal proteins (BAPs). The bap genes mapped to two loci on chromosomes 4 and 10. So far, bap-homologous sequences have been detected only in maize, teosinte and sorghum, and are not present in grasses outside the Andropogoneae tribe. BAP2 is synthesized as a pre-proprotein, and is processed by successive removal of a signal peptide and a 29-residue prodomain. The proprotein can be detected exclusively in microsomal membrane-containing fractions of kernel extracts. Immunolocalization reveals BAP2 to be predominantly located in the placentochalazal cells of the pedicel, adjacent to the basal endosperm transfer layer (BETL) cells, although the BAP2 transcript is found only in the BETL cells. The biological roles of BAP2 propeptide and mature peptide have been investigated by heterologous expression of the proprotein in Escherichia coli, and by tests of its fungistatic activity and that of the fully processed form in vitro. The mature BAP2 peptide exhibits potent broad-range activity against a range of filamentous fungi, including several plant pathogens.
Although sequences representing members of the phytochrome (phy) family of photoreceptors have been reported in numerous species across the phylogenetic spectrum, relatively few phytochrome genes (PHY) have been fully characterized. Using rice, we have cloned and characterized the first PHYC gene from a monocot. Comparison of genomic and cDNA PHYC sequences shows that the rice PHYC gene contains three introns in the protein-coding region typical of most angiosperm PHY genes, in contrast to Arabidopsis PHYC, which lacks the third intron. Mapping of the transcription start site and 5'-untranslated region of the rice PHYC transcript indicates that it contains an unusually long, intronless, 5'-untranslated leader sequence of 715 bp. PHYC mRNA levels are relatively low compared to PHYA and PHYB mRNAs in rice seedlings, and are similar in dark- and light-treated seedlings, suggesting relatively low constitutive expression. Genomic mapping shows that the PHYA, PHYB, and PHYC genes are all located on chromosome 3 of rice, in synteny with these genes in linkage group C (sometimes referred to as linkage group A) of sorghum. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that rice phyC is closely related to sorghum phyC, but relatively strongly divergent from Arabidopsis phyC, the only full-length dicot phyC sequence available.
The non-coding chloroplast DNA sequences of the trnL (UAA) intron and the trnL-trnF (GAA) intergeneric spacer (IGS), the coding sequences of nuclear 18S rDNA, and the transcription factor Vp1 of the cereal tef (Eragrostis tef (Zucc.) Trotter) were studied. No intraspecific variation was found among the 6 studied tef varieties. However, the study displayed that Eragrostis tef has a number of unique traits compared to other grasses. Phylogenetic analysis of the chloroplast DNA gave three grass clades, joining Eragrostis with sorghum and maize in one. In the analysis of the 18S rDNA sequences, the three grass species were joined in a monophyletic trichotomy in the cladogram, in which maize is the most divergent, rice the least and tef intermediate. The Vp1 is highly conserved. The Vp1 phylogeny showed that the tef Vp1-sequence is the hitherto most divergent Vp1-sequence reported from a grass.
Physical mapping of BACs by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) was used to analyze the liguleless (lg-1) linkage group in sorghum and compare it to the conserved region in rice and maize. Six liguleless-associated rice restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers were used to select 16 homeologous sorghum BACs, which were in turn used to physically map the liguleless linkage group in sorghum. Results show a basic conservation of the liguleless region in sorghum relative to the linkage map of rice. One marker which is distal in rice is more medial in sorghum, and another marker which is found within the linkage group in rice is on a different chromosome in sorghum. BACs associated with linkage group I hybridize to chromosome It, which was identified by using FISH in a sorghum cytogenetic stock trisomic for chromosome I (denoted It), and a BAC associated with linkage group E hybridized to an unidentified chromosome. Selected BACs, representing RFLP loci, were end-cloned for RFLP mapping, and the relative linkage order of these clones was in full agreement with the physical data. Similarities in locus order and the association of RFLP-selected BAC markers with two different chromosomes were found to exist between the linkage map of the liguleless region in maize and the physical map of the liguleless region in sorghum.
The seed storage proteins of Coix, sorghum and maize are codified by homologous genes which are coordinately expressed in the endosperm in a temporal-specific fashion. Opaque2 (O2), a bZIP protein originally isolated from maize, has been described as a transcription activator of alpha- and beta-prolamin genes. The isolation and characterization of cDNA and genomic clones encoding the Opaque2 homologue from Coix are reported here. The coding region of the Coix O2 gene is interrupted by five introns and codifies a polypeptide of 408 amino acids. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with two different sequences of maize O2 protein showed that the Coix O2 protein is similar to the maize O2 isolated from W22 maize inbred line. The Coix O2 protein has the same binding specificity and expression pattern of the maize O2. The O2 proteins together with OHP1, OsBZIPPA, SPA, CPRF2 and RITA1 were assigned to one of the five bZIP plant families in an updated classification of plant bZIP according to bZIP domain similarity.
The Ma3 gene is one of six genes that regulate the photoperiodic sensitivity of flowering in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench). The ma3R mutation of this gene causes a phenotype that is similar to plants that are known to lack phytochrome B, and ma3 sorghum lacks a 123-KD phytochrome that predominates in light-grown plants and that is present in non-ma3 plants. A population segregating for Ma3 and ma3 was created and used to identify two randomly amplified polymorphic DNA markers linked to Ma3. These two markers were cloned and mapped in a recombinant inbred population as restriction fragment length polymorphisms. cDNA clones of PHYA and PHYC were cloned and sequenced from a cDNA library prepared from green sorghum leaves. Using a genome-walking technique, a 7941-bp partial sequence of PHYB, was determined from genomic DNA from ma3 sorghum. PHYA, PHYB, and PHYC all mapped to the same linkage group. The Ma3-linked markers mapped with PHYB more than 121 centimorgans from PHYA and PHYC. A frameshift mutation resulting in a premature stop codon was found in the PHYB sequence from ma3 sorghum. Therefore, we conclude that the Ma3 locus in sorghum is a PHYB gene that encodes a 123-kD phytochrome.
A 165 bp deletion in the middle of rpoC2, the plastid gene which encodes the RNA polymerase beta" subunit, was identified in the small-anthered types of CMS sorghum, Sorghum bicolor (L.). Moench, containing A1, A2, A5, and A6 cytoplasms. It was previously shown that the amino acid sequence deleted in these CMS lines is in a monocot-specific region that contains several protein motifs that are characteristic of several transcription factors. Using primers flanking the deletion in PCR analyses, various types of CMS lines, some of which are used in hybrid sorghum production, were classified into two groups. CMS lines containing A1, A2, A5, A6 cytoplasms display the deletion in rpoC2. These lines have small anthers in which pollen development is arrested at an early stage and in which usually only empty exines are found. CMS lines containing A3, A4, and 9E cytoplasms do not possess the deletion. These lines have large anthers in which pollen degenerates at a later stage. Run-on transcription assays using 15 chloroplast genes showed that chloroplast gene transcription rates are similar in CMS and fertile (maintainer and restorer) lines and F1 in seedling leaves. Analyses of RNA blots indicated that rbcL, rpoB and rpoC2 transcripts are accumulated mainly in the leaves and low in the inflorescence tissues and pollen. These data document plastid gene expression in leaves and non-photosynthetic tissues from CMS and fertile lines of sorghum.
The Opaque-2 (O2) gene from maize encodes a transcriptional activator of the b-ZIP class. We have isolated and characterized a gene from sorghum, related in sequence to the O2 gene from maize. A single copy of the gene is present in sorghum. Both genomic and cDNA sequences of the O2-related sorghum gene were determined. The sequence is highly homologous to maize O2 both in the promoter and in the coding region. The most closely related sequences contain the b-ZIP domain with only 11 amino acid substitutions in a total of 122 residues. In transient expression assays, the sorghum O2-related coding sequence, expressed from a CaMV 35S promoter, activates expression from the maize b-32 promoter as effectively as that obtained with the maize O2 sequence.
A dodecapeptide of A-gliadin, which shares amino acid homologies with the E1b protein of adenovirus 12, was used to produce murine monoclonal antibodies. Five monoclonal antibodies were produced and were screened by enzyme linked immunosorbant assay, immunodot assay, and immunoblotting. The antibodies were tested against whole wheat gliadin and its alpha, beta, gamma, and omega subfractions, and the prolamins of rye, barley, oats, maize, millet, rice, and sorghum. Four of the five antibodies cross reacted with one or more of the coeliac non-toxic cereals--maize, millet, sorghum, and rice. The monoclonal antibody that did not cross react with these non-toxic cereals, did not recognize Frazer's fraction III, a peptic-tryptic digest of wheat gluten which is known to be toxic. The results suggest that the A-gliadin dodecapeptide shares a region of homology with cereals that do not exacerbate coeliac disease. This study does not support the hypothesis that prior infection with adenovirus 12 is a precipitating factor in coeliac disease.
Sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) is a preeminent sugar and bioenergy crop and has great economic importance in tropical countries. A major disease affecting this crop is yellow leaf disease, caused by sugarcane yellow leaf virus (SCYLV, Polerovirus SCYLV, Solemoviridae). The sugarcane aphid Melanaphis sacchari is considered the main vector of SCYLV, and the closely related sorghum aphid Melanaphis sorghi, which has recently emerged as a pest of great relevance in sorghum, has also been suspected to be a vector. Genetic resistance is an important resource for preventing yield losses caused by SCYLV and its vectors, but knowledge on the underlying molecular mechanisms is lacking. Therefore, the present work aimed to investigate the transcriptomic responses of sugarcane to SCYLV and M. sorghi, which was reported to transmit this virus for the first time herein. Two sugarcane cultivars, one susceptible and one tolerant to SCYLV, were fed upon by aviruliferous and viruliferous aphids. The transcriptome of the plants was assessed via RNA-Seq via differential gene expression analyses and a gene coexpression network. The susceptible cultivar showed an incipient reaction to both M. sorghi and SCYLV, with very few differentially expressed genes (DEGs) identified in comparison with aphid-free plants. The response of the tolerant cultivar to aviruliferous M. sorghi involved pathways typically associated with defense against herbivory, which were also enriched in coexpression network modules in which DEGs were overrepresented. Some of these genes were hubs in their respective modules, indicating that they are potential key regulators of defense responses. However, these responses were diminished when viruliferous aphids were used, and other processes linked to infection with SCYLV were altered. These results indicated that SCYLV could affect sugarcane defense responses to its vector, similar to other viruses of the same genus. Possible implications for the epidemiology and impact of SCYLV and M. sorghi are discussed.
Sorghum has a strong tolerance to multi-abiotic stresses such as drought, heat, poor soil fertility, and salinity, yet its growth and development are significantly affected by extreme abiotic stresses, ultimately reducing grain yield. Peroxidase (POD) proteins, which are members of the oxidoreductase enzyme family, play an important role in protecting plants against multi-abiotic stress. However, this gene family has rarely been studied in sorghum. In this study, 114 POD gene members (SbPODs) were identified in sorghum and distributed unevenly throughout 10 chromosomes. Phylogenetic analysis clustered these genes into 12 subgroups. Gene structure and motif analyses showed the structural and functional diversity among the subgroups. These genes have undergone 16 segmental duplication and 32 tandem duplication events, indicating that both segmental and tandem duplications are major contributors to the expansion of the SbPOD gene family. Most duplicated SbPODs have undergone purifying selection with limited functional divergence during duplication events. Compared with maize, rice, and Arabidopsis, SbPOD gene family not only occurred the duplication on the whole-genome level, but also existed independent duplication events. The qRT-PCR results showed twenty SbPOD genes exhibited differential expression patterns in leaves under NaCl, H Totally, 114 POD gene members were identified in sorghum by a series of bioinformatics analysis. The expression patterns of some members of SbPOD gene family exhibited significantly difference under various stress conditions. These findings not only provide valuable insights into the evolutionary dynamics of the SbPOD gene family, but also lay a foundation for further studies on the functions of POD genes.
Sorghum bicolor is a drought- and heat-tolerant cereal widely cultivated in arid regions. However, like other important grasses, it is susceptible to ergot disease caused by Claviceps species, which infect ovary tissues and reduce grain yield. To combat this disease, targeted biotechnological strategies are needed. In this study, we conducted a genome-wide identification and classification of lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) in S. bicolor, uncovering 68 putative genes grouped into five families. In silico analyses of gene expression and promoter sequences identified two LTP genes, SbLTP1.4 and SbLTP1.5, as strong candidates for flower-specific biotechnological applications. Their promoters were functionally tested in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana, revealing distinct spatial and stress-responsive expression profiles. The SbLTP1.4 promoter was active in stigmas, floral peduncles, styles, and young leaves, and was strongly induced by both biotic and abiotic stress. In contrast, SbLTP1.5 promoter displayed low and stigma-specific expression, with no detectable stress responsiveness. Promoter analysis also revealed conserved transcription factor binding sites across orthologous genes in other economically important grasses, supporting the potential transferability of this strategy to related species. These findings introduce novel tissue-specific promoters for the targeted expression of antimicrobial proteins in reproductive tissues, offering a promising tool to control Claviceps infections and enhance crop resilience in cereals and forage grasses.
A genome-wide analysis identified 12 stress-associated protein (SAP) genes in The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-025-04424-0.
The key factors for genome-editing in plants using CRISPR/Cas9, such as the Cas9 nuclease and guide RNA (gRNA) are typically expressed from a construct that is integrated into the plant genome. However, the presence of foreign DNA in the host genome causes genetic and regulatory concerns, particularly for commercialization. To address this issue, we developed an accelerated pipeline for generating transgene-free genome-edited sorghum ( The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s42994-025-00204-9.
Drought stress significantly impairs growth and microbial interactions in sorghum. This study explores the transcriptional and microbial shifts in sorghum under drought, revealing key adaptations to water deficit. LC-MS (liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry) analyses revealed that drought stress induced abscisic acid while significantly reducing jasmonic acid levels in sorghum roots, likely due to resource conservation strategies during drought. Transcriptional reprogramming highlighted the upregulation of genes in the roots involved in mineral homeostasis (Ferritin 1, Iron dehydrogenase, Nitrate transporter 1), hormone signaling (Ethylene-insensitive protein 3, Gibberellin 2-oxidase), and osmotic regulation (Aquaporin, Dehydrin), underlining key adaptive responses to maintain nutrient uptake, redox status, and cellular turgor. In Fe-supplemented plants, increased Fe in roots correlated with increased Ferritin 1 expression, improved plant health, and reduced Fenton reaction rate and H
Recent advancements in monocot transformation, using leaf tissue as explant material, have expanded the number of grass species capable of transgenesis. However, the complexity of vectors and reliance on inducible excision of essential morphogenic regulators have so far limited widespread application. Plant RNA viruses, such as Foxtail Mosaic Virus (FoMV), present a unique opportunity to express morphogenic regulator genes, such as Babyboom (Bbm), Wuschel2 (Wus2), Wuschel-like homeobox protein 2a (Wox2a) and the GROWTH-REGULATING FACTOR 4 (GRF4) GRF-INTERACTING FACTOR 1 (GIF1) fusion protein transiently in leaf explant tissues. Furthermore, altruistic delivery of conventional and viral vectors could provide opportunities to simplify vectors used for leaf transformation-facilitating vector optimization and reducing reliance on morphogenic regulator gene integration. In this study, both viral and conventional T-DNA vectors were tested for their ability to promote the formation of embryonic calli, a critical step in leaf transformation protocols, using Sorghum bicolor leaf explants. Although conventional leaf transformation vectors yielded viable embryonic calli (43.2 ± 2.9%: GRF4-GIF1, 50.2 ± 3%: Bbm/Wus2), altruistic conventional vectors employing the GRF4-GIF1 morphogenic regulator resulted in improved efficiencies (61.3 ± 4.7%). Altruistic delivery was further enhanced with the use of viral vectors employing both GRF4-GIF1 and Bbm/Wus2 regulators, resulting in 75.1 ± 2.3% and 79.2 ± 2.5% embryonic calli formation, respectively. Embryonic calli generated from both conventional and viral vectors produced shoots expressing fluorescent reporters, which were confirmed using molecular analysis. This work provides an important proof-of-concept for the use of both altruistic vectors and viral-expressed morphogenic regulators for improving plant transformation.
For a long time, sorghum breeding has focused on improving yield and quality traits, whereas little research has been conducted on drought resistance. To this end, this study evaluated the phenotypes of two sorghum varieties (GL98 and GL220) under drought stress and normal conditions, and sequenced their transcriptomes and metabolomes. After drought stress, the growth rates of the roots and shoots of GL220 exceeded those of GL98 at 72 h. A total of 6,344 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified
Glycerophosphodiester phosphodiesterase (GDPD) catalyzes the hydrolysis of glycerophosphodiesters into sn-glycerol-3-phosphate (G-3-P) and corresponding alcohols, which is integral to various physiological processes in plants. However, our comprehension of the
Meristems are major determinants of plant architecture, diversification, and acclimation to environmental stresses. Moreover, meristems play also a major role during crop domestication and are fundamentally important for the productivity of crop plants as they directly determine biomass and grain yield. While vegetative meristems shape the basic plant body plan and produce all above- and below-ground parts of plants, some vegetative meristems transit to reproductive meristems, forming sexual organs and germ cells. Most knowledge about plant meristems was generated using the model plant Arabidopsis. Compared with Arabidopsis, architecture of grass or cereals, including crops like maize, wheat, barley, rice and sorghum, is more complex: cereals produce additional organs like a coleoptile, seminal roots originating from the scutellar nodes in the embryo and shoot-borne crown roots as well as highly complex inflorescence meristems with meristem types absent in eudicots. Moreover, studies in cereals indicated that paradigms based on studies using Arabidopsis are not universally applicable. This review therefore aims to provide a comprehensive overview about the initiation, establishment, maintenance, and function of the various cereal meristems and their stem cell niches that shape our most important crop plants. Stem cell-like systems involved in leaf pattering and germline formation are also considered. The focus is also on the significant progress that has been made recently using novel tools to elucidate gene regulatory networks underlying the development and function of the various cereal meristems.
This study investigates how two harpin proteins, HrpZ and Hpa1, modulate plant immunity as potential alternatives to pesticides. Despite the established importance of SA in immunity, its regulatory complexity and gene expression dynamics are partially elucidated. We examined the effect of HrpZ and Hpa1 on the SA signalling pathway and the expression of seven marker genes ( The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-025-01601-6.
Aldo-keto reductases (AKRs) are ubiquitous in nature and are able to reduce a wide range of substrates, from simple sugars to potentially toxic aldehydes. In plants, AKRs are involved in key metabolic processes including reactive aldehyde detoxification. This study aimed to (i) delineate a maize gene family encoding aldo keto reductase-4s (AKR4s) (ii) help bridge sequence-to-function gaps among them, and (iii) focus on a family member implicated in embryo specific stress metabolism. We employed a genome-wide analysis approach to identify maize genes encoding AKR4s, defining and annotating a 15-member gene family that clustered into three subgroups. Expression profiling, validated through wet lab experiments, revealed distinct functional roles: (i) AKR4C Zm-1 functions in aldehyde detoxification during stress, (ii) AKR4C Zm-2 includes stress-responsive AKRs with diverse substrate affinities, and (iii) AKR4A/B Zm-3 contributes to specialized metabolites like phytosiderophores for iron transport. To investigate the impact of sequence variation on function, we characterized ZmAKR4C13, a representative of AKR4C Zm-1. Its mRNA and protein were predominantly localized in embryos, suggesting a specialized role. Recombinant ZmAKR4C13 efficiently reduced methylglyoxal and small aldehydes but showed poor activity toward aldoses larger than four carbons. Crystallographic analysis identified a size constraint at the active site, attributed to the bulkier LEU residue at position 294. Collectively, our results emphasize how subtle modifications in active-site architecture influence AKR substrate specificity. They also demonstrate a potential role of maize ZmAKR4C13 in detoxifying methylglyoxal and other small metabolites that could contribute to stress signaling in embryos.
Epicuticular wax blooms are associated with improved drought resistance in many species, including Sorghum bicolor. While the role of wax in drought resistance is well-known, we report new insights into how light and drought dynamically influence wax production. We investigated how wax quantity and composition are modulated over time and in response to different environmental stressors, as well as the molecular and genetic mechanisms involved in such. We combined an in vitro wax induction protocol with GC-MS and RNA-seq measurements to propose a putative signaling pathway for wax bloom induction in sorghum. We also explored the potential of spectrophotometry to aid in monitoring wax bloom dynamics. Spectrophotometric analysis showed primary differences in reflectance between bloom-rich and bloomless tissue surfaces in the 230-500 nm range of the spectrum, corresponding to the blue color channel of photographic data. Our smartphone-based system detected significant differences in wax production between control and shade treatment groups, demonstrating its potential for candidate screening. Overall, our data suggest that wax extrusion can be rapidly modulated in response to light, occurring within days compared to the months required for the changes observed under greenhouse drought/simulated shade conditions. These results highlight the dynamic nature of wax modulation in response to varying environmental stimuli, especially light and water availability.
This study first identifies the SbC1, an R2R3-MYB transcription factor, specifically function as the key positive regulator for anthocyanin biosynthesis in sorghum coleoptiles. Anthocyanins are pivotal in plant growth, development, and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying anthocyanin biosynthesis in sorghum, one of the major cereal crops worldwide, remain largely unexplored. Here, through genome-wide association study (GWAS), virus induced gene silencing (VIGS) experiment and haplotype analysis, we identified a key R2R3-MYB gene, SbC1, that specifically regulates anthocyanin accumulation in sorghum coleoptiles but not in grain. Further transcriptomic analysis of the coleoptiles of the cultivars HYZ (SbC1) and QKY (sbc1-a mutant allele) demonstrated the positive regulatory role of SbC1 in anthocyanin biosynthesis genes. The SbC1 protein predominantly localizes within the cell nucleus, where it interacts with Tan1. The interaction between SbC1 and Tan1 was confirmed through split-luciferase (Split-LUC), yeast two-hybrid (Y2H), and coimmunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assays. Comparative genomic analysis suggested that the R2R3-MYB transcription factors responsible for anthocyanin biosynthesis exhibit a similar molecular genetic basis in the parallel evolution of organ decoloration across different cereals. Addationnaly, overexpression of SbC1 in the rice Osc1 mutant complete rescue the anthocyanin accumulation defection and enhanced drought resistance compared with the control. In summary, for the first time, we identified the key transcription factor that specifically governs anthocyanin biosynthesis in sorghum coleoptiles. This discovery represents a significant breakthrough in understanding the molecular mechanisms of anthocyanin accumulation in sorghum and offers valuable genetic resources for plant breeding and biotechnology.
Bioenergy sorghum is a highly productive drought tolerant C4 grass that accumulates ~ 80% of its harvested biomass in ~ 4 m long stems comprised of > 40 internodes that develop sequentially during an extended vegetative growth phase. Following elongation of each internode, internode density increases ~ threefold to fourfold primarily due to the accumulation of cell walls composed of cellulose, glucuronoarabinoxylan and lignin. Lignin accumulates initially on cell walls of sclerenchyma cells surrounding vascular bundles and later on cell walls of the stem rind and stem core pith parenchyma. Many genes involved in cell wall biosynthesis were expressed continuously during the stem internode densification process whereas others showed dynamic patterns of expression (high to low, low to high). Several CESA genes involved in primary cell wall cellulose synthesis were expressed in the stem rind and core throughout the stem densification phase. In contrast, CESA genes involved in secondary cell wall biogenesis were expressed continuously in the stem rind but downregulated in the stem core shortly after completion of internode elongation. Overall, accumulation of cell wall biomass in elongated internodes during stem densification increases stem mechanical strength and biomass bulk density while modifying biomass composition in ways that could impact the amount and release of cellulosic sugars and lignin-derived bioproducts.
The timing of flowering is determined by a complex genetic architecture integrating signals from a diverse set of external and internal stimuli and plays a key role in determining plant fitness and adaptation. However, significant divergence in the identities and functions of many flowering time pathway components has been reported among plant species. Here, we employ a combination of genome and transcriptome wide association studies to identify genetic determinants of variation in flowering time across multiple environments in a large panel of primarily photoperiod-insensitive sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), a major crop that has, to date, been the subject of substantially less genetic investigation than its relatives. Gene families that form core components of the flowering time pathway in other species, FT-like and SOC1-like genes, appear to play similar roles in sorghum, but the genes identified are not orthologous to the primary FT-like or SOC1-like genes that play similar roles in related species. The ageing pathway appears to play a role in determining non-photoperiod determined variation in flowering time in sorghum. Two components of this pathway were identified in a transcriptome wide association study, while a third was identified via genome-wide association. Our results demonstrate that while the functions of larger gene families are conserved, functional data from even closely related species is not a reliable guide to which gene copies will play roles in determining natural variation in flowering time.
Cadmium (Cd) stress significantly affects the growth, development, and utilization of sorghum. Although the molecular pathways responding to Cd stress in sorghum remain incompletely understood, glutathione transferase (GST) is recognized for its critical role in plant responses to heavy metals and detoxification processes. In this study, we examined the influence of SbGST40 on Cd accumulation in sorghum. Our results indicate that SbGST40 is responsive to Cd stress, with its overexpression markedly enhancing Cd tolerance in sorghum while inhibiting Cd accumulation. Furthermore, we discovered that SbWRKY10 directly interacts with the promoter region of SbGST40, thereby augmenting its transcriptional activity. Additionally, SbMPK13 directly interacts with and phosphorylates SbWRKY10. Notably, in sorghum lines that overexpress SbMPK13, the protein stability of SbWRKY10 is enhanced, further amplifying the regulatory influence of SbWRKY10 on SbGST40 expression. Collectively, our findings elucidate the role of the module comprising SbMPK13, SbWRKY10, and SbGST40, which is crucial for mediating Cd accumulation in sorghum.
Cis-regulatory elements (CREs) direct precise gene expression for development and environmental response, yet their spatial organization in crops is largely unknown. We introduce transposase-accessible chromosome conformation capture (TAC-C), a method integrating ATAC-seq and Hi-C to capture fine-scale chromatin interactions in four major crops: rice, sorghum, maize, and wheat. TAC-C reveals a strong association between chromatin interaction frequency and gene expression, particularly emphasizing the conserved roles of chromatin interaction hub anchors and hub genes across crop species. Integrating chromatin structure with population genetics data highlights that chromatin loops connect distal regulatory elements to phenotypic variation. In addition, asymmetrical open chromatin interactions among subgenomes, driven by transposon insertions and sequence variations, contribute to biased homoeolog expression. Furthermore, TaSPL7/15 regulate photosynthesis-related genes through chromatin interactions, with enhanced photosynthetic efficiency and starch content in
The infectivity and virulence of Metarhizium pingshaense was tested against three major pests: Chilo infuscatellus (sugarcane early shoot borer), C. sacchariphagus indicus (sugarcane internode borer) and C. partellus (sorghum stem borer). Bioassay studies indicated high pathogenicity of this fungus against all the three species with the highest mortality recorded in C. sacchariphagus indicus (96%), followed by C. infuscatellus (93%) and C. partellus (83%). The median lethal concentrations of M. pingshaense against late-instar larvae were 4.6 × 10
Sorghum grains are rich in phenolic compounds, which are noted for their anticancer, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties, as well as volatile compounds (VOCs) that contribute to aroma and fermentation processes. There is a known close relationship between sorghum coat color and phenolic compound content (PCC), particularly flavonoids which are pigments that confer red and purple colors in flowers and seeds. Our results showed that black seeds had the highest total tannin content (TTC) and ketone content, which were measured at 457.7 mg CE g-1 and 96 g 100 g-1, respectively, which were 4.87 and 1.35 - fold higher than those of white seeds. L* showed a negative correlation between TTC (r = -0.770, P < 0.01) and ketone (r = -0.814, P < 0.01), while TFC and a* showed a strong positive correlation (r = 0.829, P < 0.001). RNA sequencing analysis identified 1,422 up-regulated and 1,586 down-regulated differentially expressed genes. Weighted gene co-expression analysis highlighted two color-related gene modules: the magenta 2 module associated with TTC, TPC, VOCs and L* value, and the blue module associated with TFC, and a* values. Hub genes identified within these modules included ABCB28 in the magenta 2 module, and PTCD1 and ANK in the blue module. We confirmed the relationship between PCC, VOCs, and seed coat color, with darker seed coat colors showing higher tannin, ketone contents and redder colors indicating higher flavonoid content. Network analysis helped pinpoint key genes involved in these traits. This study will provide essential data for improving the food and industrial use of sorghum.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) plays a critical role in global agriculture, serving as a staple food source and contributing significantly to various industries. However, sorghum cultivation faces significant challenges, particularly from pests like the sugarcane aphid (SCA), which can cause substantial damage to crops. In this study, we investigated the role of the caffeoyl coenzyme-A O-methyltransferase (CCoAOMT) gene in sorghum defense against SCA. Feeding by SCA induced the expression of the SbCCoAOMT gene, which is involved in the monolignol biosynthesis pathway. Aphid no-choice and choice bioassays revealed that SbCCoAOMT overexpression in sorghum resulted in reduced SCA reproduction and decreased aphid settling, respectively, compared to wild-type (RTx430) plants. Furthermore, electrical penetration graph (EPG) studies revealed that SbCCoAOMT overexpression restricts aphid feeding from the sieve elements. SCA feeding also induced the accumulation of lignin in sorghum wild-type and SbCCoAOMT overexpression plants. Moreover, artificial diet aphid feeding bioassays with hydroxycinnamic acids, ferulic and sinapic acids, showed direct adverse effects on SCA reproduction. Our findings highlight the potential of genetic modification to enhance sorghum resistance to SCA and emphasize the importance of lignin-related genes in plant defense mechanisms. This study offers valuable insights into developing aphid-resistant sorghum varieties and suggests avenues for further research on enhancing plant defenses against biotic stresses.
Micronutrient stress impacts growth, biomass production, and grain yield in crops. Multi-omics studies are valuable resources in identifying genes for functional studies and trait improvement, such as accumulation of Fe or Zn under deficient or excess conditions for bioenergy or grain agriculture. We conducted transcriptomics and ionomics analyses on Sorghum bicolor BTx623, grown under Fe and Zn limited and excess conditions over a 21-day period. To identify early and late transcriptional response in roots and leaves, 180 RNAseq libraries were sequenced for differential expression and co-expression network analyses. Fe and Zn accumulation was measured using ICP-MS at each time point, and a fluorometer was used to estimate chlorophyll content in leaves. Among the four treatments, Fe limitation and Zn excess resulted in the largest phenotypic effects and transcriptional response in roots and leaves. Several of the reduction (Strategy I) and chelation (Strategy II) strategy genes that improve bioavailability of Fe and Zn in plant roots often used by non-grass and grass species, respectively, were differentially expressed. Gene regulatory network (GRN) analysis of roots revealed enrichment of genes from Fe limiting and Zn excess which strongly connect to homologues of SbFIT, SbPYE, and SbBTS as hub genes. The GRN for leaf responses showed homologues of SbPYE and SbBTS as hubs connecting genes for chloroplast biosynthesis, Fe-S cluster assembly, photosynthesis, and ROS scavenging. Expression analyses suggest sorghum uses Strategy II genes for Fe and Zn uptake, as expected, but can also utilize Strategy I genes, which may be advantageous in variable moisture environments. We found strong overlap between Fe and Zn responsive GRNs, indicative of micronutrient crosstalk. We also found conservation of root and leaf GRNs, and known homologous genes suggest strong constraints on homeostasis networks in plants. These data will provide a resource for functional genetics to enhance micronutrient transport in sorghum, and opportunities to conduct further comparative GRN analysis across diverse crops species.
Water use efficiency is an important target for breeding of improved drought resistance. Minimizing leaf transpirational water loss plays a key role in drought resistance. But this reduces CO
Chitinase, a key enzyme family within the pathogenesis-related (PR) protein, plays a crucial role in plant defense by degrading chitin, a major component of fungal cell walls. The HvCHT genes in barley are involved in responses to biotic and abiotic stresses, although their full range of functions is not yet fully understood. In this study, we identified 24 potential HvCHT genes through a genome-wide analysis. The comparative synteny analysis showed conserved relationships between HvCHT genes and their homologs in Sorghum bicolor, Oryza sativa, and Arabidopsis thaliana. Chromosomal mapping, gene structure, characterization, protein motif analysis, and miRNA regulation were performed to gain insight into the genetic structures of these genes. Segmental duplication events observed in the HvCHT family suggest an important role in the evolutionary development of these genes. Additionally, cis-regulatory element analysis revealed the presence of light-responsive elements, and regulators for Abscisic acid, methyl jasmonate (MeJA), salicylic acid, and gibberellins, indicating potential involvement in stress responses. Transcriptomic data showed differential expression of HvCHT genes in response to salt stress, with distinct patterns observed in leaf and root tissues. Furthermore, the genes defensive responses to drought stress and Fusarium infection were characterized across multiple time points. Notably, qRT-PCR analysis confirmed the upregulation of HvCHT1, HvCHT4, and HvCHT17, highlighting their potential involvement in stress-related pathways. These findings provide a comprehensive overview of the HvCHT genes role in barley defense mechanisms, underlining their regulatory functions in biotic and abiotic stressors. The results lay the groundwork for future functional studies on HvCHT genes, with the potential to enhance stress tolerance in crops. Not applicable.
Dehydration response element binding proteins (DREBs) play a vital role in transcriptional regulators in enhancing plant tolerance to abiotic stress. To investigate the biological functions of the DREB gene family (
Excessive Cadmium (Cd) content in soil poses a significant threat to plant growth and human health. Heavy metal-associated isoprenylated plant proteins (HIPPs) are pivotal regulators of metal homeostasis and detoxification. While Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) is a promising phytoremediation crops, the functional roles of its HIPPs family remain poorly characterized. Here, we identified 45 SbHIPP genes in sorghum through genome-wide analysis. Among these, SbHIPP40 exhibited predominantly expression in leaves and roots, with marked upregulated under Cd exposure. Subcellular localization assays revealed nuclear and plasma membrane targeting of SbHIPP40. Functional validation in yeast demonstrated SbHIPP40 overexpression enhanced Cd tolerance in the ycf1 mutant strain. Transgenic rice SbHIPP40 overexpressing accumulated 1.68-3.92 fold higher Cd in stems, leaves, and grains compared to wild-type plants. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that SbHIPP40 modulates key pathway in signal transduction and stress responses. Mutagenesis studies highlighted the indispensable role of the HMA domain in Cd binding, as its deleting drastically reduced Cd accumulation and impaired yeast growth, whereas truncation of other domain, such as isoprenylation motif, had no significant effect. Our findings establish SbHIPP40 as a pivotal Cd accumulator via its HMA domain, advancing understanding of sorghum's Cd detoxification mechanisms and offering a genetic resource for enhancing phytoremediation strategies.
Plant NAC transcription factors (TFs) are essential genes that modulate plant responses to abiotic stress. In this study, we identified a novel NAC TF, SbNAC074, in sorghum, which exhibits a response to salt stress. Overexpression of SbNAC074 in tobacco significantly enhanced the salt tolerance of transgenic plants. Measurements of stress-related physiological indicators revealed that the overexpression of SbNAC074 led to a reduction in the accumulation of malondialdehyde (MDA) and hydrogen peroxide (H
Exserohilum turcicum causes northern corn leaf blight and sorghum leaf blight. While the same species cause disease in both crops, the strains are host-specific. Here, we report the sequence and de novo annotated assemblies of one sorghum- and one maize-specific E. turcicum strain. The strains were sequenced using the PacBio Sequel II system. The total genome length for both assemblies was between 44 and 45 Mb with N50 of ∼2.5 Mb. Ninety-eight percent of the Benchmarking Universal Single-Copy Orthologs (BUSCO) for both assemblies had complete status. The estimated number of genes was 11,762 and 12,029 in the sorghum- and maize-specific isolates, respectively. Funannotate, EffectorP, SignalP, and transcriptome data were used to create functional annotation of each genome. The whole-genome comparison identified ten large-scale inversions and three translocations between the maize- and sorghum-specific strains, along with homologous genes and gene duplications. RNA was sequenced from the maize- and sorghum-specific isolate 10 days post-inoculation in maize and sorghum and from axenic cultures. Gene expression data from planta and axenic growth experiments were compared for each strain. Candidate host-specificity genes were identified by combining results from whole-genome comparison, synteny analysis, gene annotations, and transcriptome data. Overall, this study identified several candidate host-specificity genes that provide insights into E. turcicum interaction with its hosts.
Plants employ peptide ligands to coordinate development and integrate environmental signals via dedicated cascades (#ref-0013). Epidermal patterning factor (EPF), plays a significant role in regulating stomatal density, seed germination and panicle development (#ref-0008). EPF/EPFL enhance drought tolerance by reducing stomatal density have been reported in multiple species, including Hordeum vulgare, Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus spp., Vitis vinifera, Sorghum bicolor and Brassica napus (#ref-0001). Our previous study has shown that EPF can mediate drought resistance in foxtail millet by regulating stomatal density (#ref-0004). Furthermore, evidence suggests that plants can regulate photosynthesis through stomatal modification, ultimately enhancing yield (#ref-0005). Beyond stomatal density regulation, the EPF/EPFL gene family modulates seed germination through phytohormone signalling and regulates inflorescence development via ligand-receptor interactions (#ref-0007). OsEPFLs act as upstream ligands for the OsER1 receptor, activating the MAPK signalling cascade to regulate panicle morphogenesis (#ref-0002). In this study, we sought to elucidate how SiEPF2 balances drought resistance and yield in foxtail millet by modulating stomatal density and panicle morphology. Our findings not only provide novel insights into SiEPF2's role in abiotic stress responses but also contribute valuable genetic resources for high-yield breeding programmes in millet crops.
Abscisic acid (ABA) seed priming impacts plant growth and stress resistance, yet its precise physiological and molecular mechanisms remain elusive. This study explored the role of ABA-priming in enhancing drought acclimation in sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor Moench) using physiological assessments and comparative transcriptomics. Under drought stress, ABA-primed seedlings exhibited increased plant height, larger leaves, and higher leaf water content compared to non-primed plants. While drought negatively affected photosynthesis through the regulation of photosystem I and II, ABA-priming improved photosynthesis and WUE by involving in differential expression of photosystem II genes. ABA-priming promoted the accumulation of cuticular wax and cutin, effectively reducing leaf water loss. Drought triggered endogenous ABA production via ABA inactivation genes (UGT, BGLU), while ABA-priming activated auxin (IAA) biosynthesis via YUCCA, enhancing auxin-mediated responses and gibberellic acid (GA) signalling. The synergistic action of ABA and IAA culminated in enhanced drought tolerance. Additionally, ABA-priming and drought stress regulated NAC transcription factors, with SbNAC21-1 emerging as a pivotal transcriptional activator intricately linked to auxin signalling. Overexpression of SbNAC21-1 in Arabidopsis effectively enhanced drought tolerance. These findings offer valuable insights into the intricate mechanisms underpinning the beneficial effects of ABA-priming, ultimately enhancing plant adaptability to environmental stressors.
Low temperature at the seedling stage adversely affects sorghum growth and development and limits its geographical distribution. APETALA2/Ethylene-Responsive transcription factors (AP2/ERFs), one of the largest transcription factor families in plants, play essential roles in growth, development, and responses to abiotic stresses. However, the roles of AP2/ERF genes in cold tolerance in sorghum and the mechanisms underlying their effects remain largely unknown. Here, transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed on the leaves of sorghum seedlings before and after cold treatment. Several candidate genes for cold tolerance and regulation pathways involved in "photosynthesis" under cold stress were identified via Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment. Additionally, the AP2/ERF family gene
Holo-omics provide a novel opportunity to study the interactions among fungi from different functional guilds in host plants in field conditions. We address the entangled responses of plant pathogenic and endophytic fungi associated with sorghum when droughted through the assembly of the most abundant fungal, endophyte genome from rhizospheric metagenomic sequences followed by a comparison of its metatranscriptome with the host plant metabolome and transcriptome. The rise in relative abundance of endophytic Acremonium persicinum (operational taxonomic unit 5 (OTU5)) in drought co-occurs with a rise in fungal membrane dynamics and plant metabolites, led by ethanolamine, a key phospholipid membrane component. The negative association between endophytic A. persicinum (OTU5) and plant pathogenic fungi co-occurs with a rise in expression of the endophyte's biosynthetic gene clusters coding for secondary compounds. Endophytic A. persicinum (OTU5) and plant pathogenic fungi are negatively associated under preflowering drought but not under postflowering drought, likely a consequence of variation in fungal fitness responses to changes in the availability of water and niche space caused by plant maturation over the growing season. Our findings suggest that the dynamic biotic interactions among host, beneficial and harmful microbiota in a changing environment can be disentangled by a blending of field observation, laboratory validation, holo-omics and ecological modelling.
The accumulation of the livestock-harming cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin in the vegetative tissues limits the use of sorghum as a major pasture crop. This study integrates transcriptomics and metabolomics data from the ICSV 93046, CSH 24-MF and ICSR 14001 genotypes, which differ in drought tolerance and cyanide potential (HCNp), to understand the molecular processes of cyanogenesis under drought stress conditions. While ICSV 93046 showed drought adaptation and reduced HCNp, ICSR 14001 and CSH 24-MF exhibited decreased drought stress tolerance with HCN accumulation. The differentially expressed gene (DEG) data showed drought-related genes were significantly upregulated in ICSV 93046 but downregulated in ICSR 14001. KEGG pathway analysis revealed enriched dhurrin biosynthesis and cyanoamino acid metabolism genes, with higher expression in ICSR 14001 than in ICSV 93046. WGCNA analysis revealed that hub genes are involved in drought-induced signalling components, such as phospholipases (PLPs) and lipoxygenases (LOXs), which are implicated in membrane protection. In drought-sensitive genotypes, stress-induced membrane damages lead to the release of dhurrin into the cytoplasm, thus elevating HCN content and activating defence responses. Conversely, the drought-adapted genotype could mitigate HCN production by averting membrane injury, thereby effectively modulating the oxidative stress and preventing the release of dhurrin into the cytoplasm.
Fasciclin-like arabinogalactan proteins (FLAs) are crucial for plant growth and development. Utilizing whole genome data, this study delineated the number of genes, gene structure, chromosomal localization, protein structure, evolutionary relationships, and Gene Ontology (GO) annotations of the
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench) is an important forage crop that contains the cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin that releases hydrogen cyanide when tissue is damaged. The acyanogenic (dhurrin-free) sorghum line tcd1 was developed to eliminate the risk of cyanide poisoning from sorghum forage. However, dhurrin may also play a role in nitrogen accumulation and storage. We tested whether dhurrin offers the cyanogenic sorghum line BTx623 a growth advantage relative to tcd1 , when nitrogen is limiting and variable. BTx623 and tcd1 were grown under two 42-day nitrogen treatments: high dose, low frequency ('surge') and low dose, high frequency ('pulse'). BTx623 exhibited no growth advantage or disadvantage compared to tcd1 under either treatment. Young BTx623 plants had high concentrations of dhurrin for defence but rapidly recycled this during nitrogen deficiency under the surge treatment, demonstrating dhurrin's role in both defence and nitrogen storage. At later stages, surge plants appeared to accumulate influxes of nitrogen in nitrate and amino acids but not dhurrin. There was evidence of gene expression promoting increased biosynthesis and reduced recycling of dhurrin following surge nitrogen applications but not pulse applications. These results deepen our understanding of dhurrin's role in nitrogen metabolism and demonstrate tcd1 's potential as a safe forage.
Nuclear factor Y alpha proteins (NF-YAs) are conserved transcription factor proteins crucial to plant growth and development that exhibit specific responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. Using bioinformatics approaches to investigate the
Phytophthora blight is a highly destructive soil-borne disease caused by Phytophthora capsici Leonian, which threatens pepper production. The molecular mechanism of pepper resistance to phytophthora blight is unclear, and the excavation and functional analysis of resistant genes are the bases and prerequisites for phytophthora blight-resistant breeding. We aimed to analyze the expression patterns of key genes in the plant-pathogen interaction metabolic pathway and propose a working model of the pepper defense signal network against Phytophthora capsici infection. The 'ZCM334' pepper material used in this study is a high-generation inbred line that is immune to Phytophthora capsici and shows no signs of infection after inoculation. Comparative transcriptome analysis of the roots of 'ZCM334' and the susceptible material 'Early Calwonder' revealed significant differences in their gene expression profiles at different stages after inoculation. Most differentially expressed genes were significantly enriched in the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, plant-pathogen interaction, and fatty acid degradation metabolic pathways. Some defense genes and transcription factors significant in pepper resistance to phytophthora blight were identified, including PR1, RPP13, FLS2, CDPK, CML, MAPK, RLP, RLK, WRYK, ERF, MYB, and bHLH, most of which were regulated after inoculation. A working model was constructed for the defense signal network of pepper against Phytophthora capsici. These data provide a valuable source of information for improving our understanding of the potential molecular mechanisms by which pepper plants resist infection by Phytophthora capsici. The identification of key genes and metabolic pathways provides avenues for further exploring the immune mechanism of 'ZCM334' resistance to phytophthora blight.
H3K36me3, catalyzed by ASHH proteins, serves as a positive histone mark associated with gene expression and plays a crucial role in plant development. In our study, we identified that sorghum SbASHH2 exhibits H3K36 methyltransferase activity. Immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that H3K36me3 rarely co-occurs with H3K27me3, and genome-wide profiling of these two marks indicates a non-overlapping distribution across the sorghum genome, underscoring the antagonistic relationship between H3K36me3 and H3K27me3. Furthermore, we observed that H2A.Z is deposited near the transcription start site (TSS) of genes enriched with H3K36me3, while genes with H2A.Z deposition in the gene body lack H3K36me3, suggesting an interplay between H3K36me3 and H2A.Z deposition. Our findings show that the high expression of photosynthesis genes in leaves is closely linked to H3K36me3 deposition, with only a small subset involving the removal of H3K27me3 or eviction of H2A.Z. This implies that H3K36me3 activates specific subsets of photosynthesis genes by antagonizing H3K27me3 or H2A.Z. Additionally, we found that the deposition of H3K36me3 on most photosynthesis genes is neither specific to mesophyll (M) nor bundle sheath (BS) cells and is independent of light induction. Our results emphasize the significance of H3K36me3 in the regulation of photosynthesis genes and lay the groundwork for further investigation into the mechanisms by which H3K36me3 contributes to gene regulation.
High transformation and gene editing efficiencies in sorghum-produced, transgene-free SDN1-edited plants exhibit precise mutations, reduced germination stimulants, and enhanced resistance to Striga infection. Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) is a primary food staple grain for millions in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). It is mainly constrained by the parasitic weed Striga, which causes up to 100% yield losses and affects over 60% of cultivable farmlands and livelihoods. In this study, CRISPR/Cas9 technology is utilized to induce mutations in core strigolactone (SL) biosynthetic genes, i.e., CCD7, CCD8, MAX1, in addition to an uncharacterized gene (DUF) in the fine-mapped 400 kb lgs1 region in sorghum to develop durable Striga resistance. Two sorghum cultivars were delivered with the expression cassettes through immature embryo-based Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Our study demonstrated transformation and gene editing efficiencies of ~ 70 and up to 17.5% (calculated based on the numuber of established plants), respectively, in two sorghum genotypes. Subsequent analysis of homozygous E
Transcriptional master regulators are often targeted to improve plant traits, but antagonistic pleiotropic effects of these regulators can hamper this approach. The Myb-bHLH-WDR (MBW) complex is a broadly conserved transcriptional regulator affecting pigmentation, biotic stress resistance, and abiotic stress tolerance. We investigated the function of sorghum grain pigmentation regulator
The high sequence and structural similarities between BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1) brassinosteroid (BR) receptors of Arabidopsis (AtBRI1) and sorghum (SbBRI1) prompted us to study the functionally conserved roles of BRI1 in both organisms. Introducing sorghum SbBRI1 in Arabidopsis bri1 mutants restores defective growth and developmental phenotypes to wild-type levels. Sorghum mutants for SbBRI1 show defective BR sensitivity and impaired plant growth and development throughout the entire sorghum life cycle. Embryonic analysis of sorghum primary root techniques permits to trace back root growth and development to early stages in an unprecedented way, revealing the functionally conserved roles of the SbBRI1 receptor in BR perception during meristem development. RNA-seq analysis uncovers the downstream regulation of the SbBRI1 pathway in cell wall biogenesis during cell growth. Together, these results uncover that the sorghum SbBRI1 protein plays functionally conserved roles in plant growth and development, while encouraging the study of BR pathways in sorghum and its implications for improving resilience in cereal crops.
Sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor Moench) seedling emergence and growth are significantly impeded by physical soil crusts (PSCs) in saline-alkaline soils. Abscisic acid (ABA) is a potent seed priming agent known for modulating plant physiological and metabolic responses under salinity stress. However, the influence of ABA priming on seedling emergence in PSCs remains unclear. This study conducted both pot and field experiment to examine the effects of ABA priming on enhancing seedling emergence under PSC conditions. ABA priming altered the balance of at least 24 endogenous phytohormones, including abscisic acid, jasmonic acid, gibberellins, ethylene, auxins, and cytokinins. Additionally, it reprogrammed starch and sucrose metabolism, resulting in the differential expression of genes encoding key enzymes such as AMY, BAM, and INV, which are crucial for converting complex sugars into readily available energy sources, thereby supporting seedling growth. Furthermore, 52 differentially expressed metabolites (DEMs) of flavonoids were identified in germinating seedlings, including 15 anthocyanins, 3 flavones, 7 flavonols, 6 isoflavones, 7 flavanones, and 14 other flavonoids. Genetic and metabolic co-expression network analysis, along with flavonoid biosynthesis pathway exploration, revealed that the biosynthesis of 17 key DEMs-including liquiritigenin, apigenin, kaempferide, syringetin, phloretin, formononetin, dihydrokaempferol, and xanthohumol-was regulated by 10 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with flavonoid biosynthesis. These DEGs encoded 7 enzymes critical for this pathway, including chalcone synthase, shikimate O-hydroxycinnamoyltransferase, bifunctional dihydroflavonol 4-reductase, naringenin 7-O-methyltransferase, and anthocyanidin reductase. This regulation, along with reduced levels of superoxide anion (O
Plant-microorganism interactions underlie many ecosystem roles, in particular the enhancement of plant nutrition through mutualistic relationships, such as the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis that affects a large proportion of land plants. The establishment of this interaction induces a wide range of signaling pathways in which lipids, and particularly sterols, may play a central role. However, their supported functions are poorly known. We performed a study on eleven model plants (banana, barrelclover, flax, grapevine, maize, pea, poplar, potato, rice, sorghum and tomato) to measure the sterol content and characterize the sterol composition of roots that were either non-colonized or colonized by the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal model Rhizophagus irregularis DAOM197198. Our results reveal a systematic increase in the content of C24-methyl sterols in crude extracts of colonized roots as compared to non-colonized roots. In addition, the transcripts of SMT1 and SMT2 (which encode enzymes that produce C24-methyl and C24-ethyl sterols, respectively) were differentially accumulated in colonized plant roots. No common regulation pattern was observed among plants. The phylogenetic relationship of members of the SMT1 and SMT2 families in more than 100 fully sequenced genomes of plants, ferns, mosses, algae and fungi has allowed the identification of unambiguous clades. Our results therefore highlight a conserved arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis-dependent regulation of the root sterol composition in angiosperms, with some plant specificities.
The phenomenon of multiple-grain spikelets is frequently observed in gramineous crops. In the case of dual-floret spikelets, the upper fertile floret develops normally to form a single grain, while the lower sterile floret undergoes abortion. Here we elucidate the role of Double-Grain 1 (DG1), a gene encoding a homeobox-domain-containing protein, in regulating the lower floret meristem activity and double-grain spikelet trait in sorghum. A 35.7-kb paracentric inversion in the DG1 promoter region leads to increased DG1 expression, probably by reducing repressive histone modifications. This increase in DG1 expression transforms the degenerated lower floret into a fertile one. The use of the superior DG1 allele results in an increase of approximately 40.7% to 46.1% in grain number per panicle and a 10.1% to 14.3% increase in overall grain yield. Our findings shed light on the sorghum double-grain spikelet characteristic, offering valuable insights for high-yield breeding designs in cereals.
Sorghum, the fifth most important food crop globally, is a source of silage forage, fiber, syrup, and biofuel. Moreover, it is widely recognized as an ideal model crop for studying stress biology becaused of its ability to tolerate multiple abiotic stresses, including high salt-alkali conditions, drought, and heat. However, functional genomics studies on sorghum have been challenging, primarily due to the limited availability of genetic resources and effective genetic transformation techniques. In this study, we developed the Sorghum Genomics and Mutation Database (SGMD), aiming to advance the genetic understanding of sorghum. Our effort encompassed a telomere-to-telomere genome assembly of an inbred sorghum line, E048, yielding 729.46 Mb of sequence data representing the complete genome. Alongside the high-quality sequence data, a gene expression atlas covering 13 distinct tissues was developed. We constructed a saturated ethyl methane sulfonate mutant library comprising 13,226 independent mutants. Causal genes in chlorosis and leafy mutants from the library were easily identified by leveraging the MutMap and MutMap+ methodologies, demonstrating the powerful application of this library for identifying functional genes. To facilitate sorghum research, we performed whole-genome sequencing of 179 M
Sucrose, the primary carbon form synthesized by photosynthesis, is transported via the phloem for proper plant development and productivity. However, long-distance sucrose transport can become unbalanced under adverse environmental conditions. Therefore, we highlight the influence of salt stress on sugar partitioning in source versus sink tissues in sorghum under generative development including the role of stress induced sucrose transporter expression. The two sorghum genotypes displayed different responses to salinity in terms of resource allocation, in Della sugar was translocated to the stem and roots, whereas in Razinieh sugars were directed towards the grains. In Della, the unloading of sucrose in the roots was associated with increased expression levels of SbSUT6 and SbSWEET6, while in the internodes, sucrose unloading correlated with elevated levels of SbSWEET13 and the ABA-dependent transcription factor SbbZIP-TF-TRAB1. Conversely, in Razinieh, the expression of SbSUT2 in the flag internodes was linked to enhanced panicle development. In addition, a differential activation of SbSWEET13 and SbSUT6 promoters by ABA and MeJA was elucidated using dual-luciferase reporter assay in sorghum protoplasts. Finally, we arrive at a model where dynamic remodeling of sugar transport during generative development is crucial for the response to salt stress, and more manifested in sink tissues.
C4 photosynthesis underpins the remarkable productivity of certain crops, including maize and sorghum. How the C4 pathway emerged from ancestral C3 relatives has been unclear. Swift et al. have deciphered how a pre-existing cis-regulatory code for bundle-sheath gene expression was conscripted to enable C4 photosynthesis.
Sorghum ( The SbDUF966 gene was identified and analyzed using bioinformatics methods in this study. We also analyzed the expression pattern of SbDUF966 in different tissues and stress conditions using RNA-seq and RT-qPCR. We explored its post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism by combining it with miRNA analysis. A total of six SbDUF966 genes were identified and categorized into two groups (Group I and Group II). Gene expression analysis showed that SbDUF966 exhibited specific expression in different tissues and developmental stages, and the expression response to abiotic stresses such as low temperature, high temperature, salinity, and flooding varied over time. In addition, 12 sorghum miRNAs were predicted as potential regulators of SbDUF966. The SbDUF966 gene family likely regulates sorghum's growth, development, and stress tolerance.
This study identified a SbABCB11 gene in sorghum that could enhance Cd translocation from roots to shoots, thus increasing Cd accumulation in shoots. Cadmium (Cd) is a widespread soil contaminant threatening human health. As an energy plant, sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) has great potential in phytoremediation of Cd-polluted soils. ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters perform critical roles in transport of Cd. However, there has not yet been a comprehensive analysis of the ABC gene family in sorghum. In this study, 142 ABC genes in sorghum were identified. Transcriptome study showed 41 SbABCs with differential expression patterns under Cd treatment. Candidate gene-based association study for Cd translocation factors identified five significant SNPs inside the annotated gene SbABCB11. Sequence analysis in different haplotypes demonstrated there were multiple long indel variations in the coding region of SbABCB11. Expression study indicated that SbABCB11-Hap3 was upregulated in roots after Cd treatment. Yeast complementary assay proved that SbABCB11 participated in the efflux of Cd, which was further supported by the localization of SbABCB11 on the plasma membrane. Transient suppression of SbABCB11 via antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotide (asODN) method reduced Cd accumulation in the shoots of sorghum by decreasing the release of Cd into the xylem. Our results provide new insights into the potential roles of SbABCs in sorghum. We revealed that SbABCB11 participated in translocation of Cd from roots to shoots, and there were significant variations in the translocation ability among different haplotypes of SbABCB11. These findings will be of help for the molecular breeding of sorghum germplasms suitable for the phytoremediation of Cd-contaminated soils.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), one of the world's most important monocot crops, suffers severe yield losses due to attack by a polyphagous insect pest, fall armyworm (FAW; Spodoptera frugiperda). Here, we show that the Brown midrib 12 (Bmr12) gene, which encodes the caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT) enzyme, promotes sorghum defense against FAW. Loss of Bmr12 function resulted in increased susceptibility, but enhanced resistance to FAW was observed in Bmr12-overexpression (OE) plants compared with wild-type (RTx430) plants. Although COMT is associated with modulating lignin levels, FAW infestation resulted in comparable lignin levels between bmr12 and Bmr12-OE sorghum plants. On the contrary, evidence presented here indicates that FAW feeding induced the accumulation of flavonoids, which was previously shown to have a negative impact on FAW growth and survival in Bmr12-OE plants compared with bmr12 and RTx430 plants. Furthermore, a combination of phytohormone profiling and transcriptomic analysis uncovered that COMT-mediated resistance to FAW depends on jasmonic acid (JA) and oxidative stress-associated pathways. Exogenous application of FAW oral secretions stimulated flavonoid accumulation in Bmr12-OE plants compared with bmr12 and RTx430 plants, indicating that COMT has an essential function in perceiving FAW oral cues. Taken together, the critical role of COMT in sorghum defense against FAW hinges upon the interplay between JA and its derivatives and hydrogen peroxide, which potentially helps to mount a robust flavonoid-based host defense upon caterpillar attack.
Parasitism with Striga poses a major threat to global food production. Striga germination and growth rely on strigolactones (SLs) exuded by crop roots under phosphate (Pi)-deficient conditions, although the mechanism of this host-parasite interaction remains elusive. In this study, transcriptomic and functional analyses of sorghum treated with Pi deficiency or the SL GR24
Phytosulfokine (PSK) signalling promotes drought adaptation in drought-sensitive plants. However, whether naturally drought-tolerant plants deploy PSK signalling in drought is unknown. We are using two sorghum varieties with different drought response phenotypes to investigate tolerance mechanisms. We show that PSK signalling components have high constitutive expression before stress in the drought-tolerant variety. In contrast, gene expression is low in the drought-sensitive variety and is induced after drought exposure. Ability of the drought-tolerant sorghum variety to maintain elevated PSK signalling under optimal water availability suggests that genetic and physiological factors driving drought tolerance may be linked to elevated constitutive PSK signalling.
Over the last 20 million years, the Andropogoneae tribe of grasses has evolved to dominate 17% of global land area. Domestication of these grasses in the last 10,000 years has yielded our most productive crops, including maize, sugarcane, and sorghum. The majority of Andropogoneae species, including maize, show a history of polyploidy - a condition that, while offering the evolutionary advantage of multiple gene copies, poses challenges to basic cellular processes, gene expression, and epigenetic regulation. Genomic studies of polyploidy have been limited by sparse sampling of taxa in groups with multiple polyploidy events. Here, we present 33 genome assemblies from 27 species, including chromosome-scale assemblies of maize relatives
Identifying key regulators of important genes in non-model crop species is challenging due to limited multi-omics resources. To address this, we introduce the network-enabled gene discovery pipeline NEEDLE, a user-friendly tool that systematically generates coexpression gene network modules, measures gene connectivity, and establishes network hierarchy to pinpoint key transcriptional regulators from dynamic transcriptome datasets. After validating its accuracy with two independent datasets, we applied NEEDLE to identify transcription factors (TFs) regulating the expression of cellulose synthase-like F6 (CSLF6), a crucial cell wall biosynthetic gene, in Brachypodium and sorghum. Our analyses uncover regulators of CSLF6 and also shed light on the evolutionary conservation or divergence of gene regulatory elements among grass species. These results highlight NEEDLE's capability to provide biologically relevant TF predictions and demonstrate its value for non-model plant species with dynamic transcriptome datasets.
Salinity tolerance in brewing sorghum is a very important trait, especially in areas that are affected by soil salinity. In order to elucidate the mechanism underlying salt tolerance, we conducted a comparative analysis of the transcriptome and metabolome in two distinct sweet sorghum genotypes, namely the salt-tolerant line NY1298 and the salt-sensitive line MY1176, following exposure to salt treatment. Our initial findings indicate the presence of genotype-specific responses in brewing sorghum under salt stress conditions. Notably, there were variations in the expression of genes and metabolites among different genotypes in response to high-salt stress. Specifically, certain transcription factors belonging to the WRKY, MYB, and NAC families were identified as being involved in the response to increased external salinity. WGCNA analysis identified stage-specific gene expression for different salinity gradients in each cultivar, and explored the gene function by KEGG enrichment analysis. Combined analysis of DEGs and DEMs in hormone synthesis found AUX/IAA, SAUR, CRE1, A-ARR, PP2C, SNRK2 genes, and 3-indoleacetic acid and jasmonic acid were evidently differential expression among different salt concentrations. Taken together, our study carried out a comprehensive overview of two genotypes of brewing sorghum gene and metabolite expression differences in response to salt stress, and expanded the understanding of responsive mechanism of brewing sorghum to salt stress.
Sugar, the primary product of photosynthesis, is a vital requirement for cell activities. Allocation of sugar from source to sink tissues is facilitated by sugar transporters (ST). These STs belong to the Major Facilitator Superfamily (MFS), the largest family of STs in plants. In this study, we performed genome wide and gene expression data analysis to identify the putative ST genes in
Sorghum bicolor: widely cultivated in Asia and Africa, faces increasing challenges from climate change, specifically from abiotic stresses like drought and salinity. This study evaluates how different sorghum genotypes respond to separate and combined stresses of drought and salinity. Carried out with three replications using a randomized complete block design, the experiment measured biochemical and physiological parameters, including stomatal conductance, chlorophyll content, and antioxidant enzyme activities. Molecular analysis focused on stress-responsive gene expression. Results indicated enhanced stress responses under combined conditions, with significant variation in antioxidant enzymatic activities among genotypes. Genotype-specific osmotic adjustments were observed through proline and glycine betaine accumulation. Physiological parameters such as chlorophyll content, cell membrane stability, stomatal conductance, and water potential were critical indicators of stress tolerance. Gene expression analysis revealed upregulation of stress-responsive genes, particularly under combined stress conditions. Correlation and principal component analysis analyses highlighted the interdependencies among traits, emphasizing their roles in oxidative stress mitigation. Samsorg-17 exhibited the highest resilience due to consistently high levels of catalase, superoxide dismutase, and glycine betaine, alongside superior physiological attributes. CRS-01 showed moderate resilience with the highest Na/K ratio and notable photosynthesis rate and relative water content, but was less consistent in biochemical markers under stress. Samsorg-42 demonstrated resilience under specific conditions but was generally less robust than Samsorg-17 across most indicators. These findings emphasize the importance of developing stress-resilient sorghum cultivars through targeted breeding programs to enhance tolerance to drought and salinity in sustainable agriculture.
Sorghum is an increasingly popular topic of research in elucidating survival and adaptation approaches to augmented salinity. Nonetheless, little is known about the outcome and modulatory networks involved in the gibberellic acid (GA3)-induced salt stress alleviation in sorghum. Here, we identified 50 mg/L GA3 as the optimal concentration for sorghum ('Jitian 3') development under salt stress. Based on genome-wide DNA methylation analysis, CpG sites displayed the most abundant methylation statuses among all stages, with a mean value of 68.2 %, then CHG (57.9 %), and CHH (21.2 %). We identified 18,032 differentially methylated regions (DMRs) in the GA3-exposed groups. In particular, we recognized 5943 DMR genes and 269 DMR-promoter genes. Using conjoint transcriptome and DNA methylation analyses, we identified 337 important methylated-genes, which were involved in "phenylpropanoid biosynthesis", "arginine and proline metabolism" and "tyrosine metabolism". Together, the aforementioned data provides an in-depth understanding of the epigenetic modulation of gene expression during GA3 treatment.
Conserved non-coding sequences (CNS) are islands of non-coding sequences conserved across species and play an important role in regulating the spatiotemporal expression of genes. Identification of CNS provides valuable information about potentially functional genomic elements, regulatory regions, and helps to gain insights into the genetic basis of crop agronomic traits. Here, we comprehensively analyze CNS in maize, by comparing the genomes of maize inbred line B73 (Zea mays ssp. mays), its close wild relative Zea mays spp. mexicana, and other grasses in Poaceae, including sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), foxtail millet (Setaria italica) and two adlay (Coix lacryma) cultivars. There were 289,931 CNS found in two syntenic gene pairs, while 51,701 CNS were conserved within at least three species. To explore the regulatory characteristics of the CNS identified, the flanking regions of CNS were compared with the peaks called using both transposase-accessible chromatin with high-throughput sequencing (ATAC-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation with high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-Seq) data of histone modifications. It was found that CNS in maize were enriched in open chromatin regions compared with randomly selected non-coding regions of similar length. A significant enrichment of transcription factor binding sites was found within CNS sequences, including different transcription factors involved in abiotic stress response, such as OBP (OBF-BINDING PROTEIN) family and Adof1 (Encodes dof zinc finger protein). To investigate the epigenetic modification patterns in CNS, ChIP-Seq data for histone modifications H3K9ac, H3K4me3, H3K36me3, H3K9me3, and H3K27ac were further analyzed to depict the changes along CNS. Our findings revealed significantly elevated levels of transcription-promoting histone modifications in the CNS regions compared to randomly selected non-coding sequences with an equal number and similar length. Notably, CNS were also identified on both Vgt1 (Vegetative to generative transition 1) and ZmCCT10. In addition, CNS with potential functions were identified based on SNPs within CNS significantly associated with various agronomic traits in maize, which holds potential utility in molecular breeding for maize. In summary, we identified and characterized CNS in maize through genomic comparative analysis, which provides valuable insights into their potential regulatory effects on gene expression and phenotypic variation.
This study seeks to improve the biomass extractability of Sorghum bicolor by targeting a critical enzyme, 4CL, through metabolic engineering of the lignin biosynthetic pathway at the post-transcriptional level. Sorghum bicolor L., a significant forage crop, offers a potential source of carbohydrate components for biofuel production. The high lignin content in sorghum stems often impedes the extractability of desired carbohydrate components for industrial use. Thus, the present study aimed to develop an improved variety of S. bicolor with reduced lignin through RNA interference of the endogenous 4-coumarate:CoA ligase (4CL) gene involved in the lignin biosynthetic pathway. The S. bicolor gene was isolated, characterized, and used to construct the RNAi-inducing hpRNA gene-silencing construct. Two independent transgenic sorghum lines were produced by introducing an hpRNA-induced gene-silencing cassette of the Sb4CL through Agrobacterium-mediated transformation in the shoot tips of S. bicolor. This was confirmed by PCR amplification of the hygromycin-resistance gene and Southern hybridization. The Sb4CL gene transcript and its enzymatic activity were found to reduce to varying degrees, as shown by northern hybridization and enzyme activity in the independent transgenic samples. Endogenous Sb4CL downregulation in sorghum stem tissue correlates with reduced lignin content to a maximum range of 25%. The transfer of the transgene in the second generation was also analyzed. Decreased lignin content in the transgenic lines was compensated by increased total cell wall carbohydrates such as cellulose (36.56%) and soluble sugars (59.72%) compared to untransformed plants. The study suggests that suppressing the Sb4CL gene effectively develops better sorghum varieties with lower lignin content. This can be useful for industrial purposes, as the enhanced carbohydrate content and favorable alteration of lignin content can lead to economic benefits.
The plant rhizosphere microbiome plays a crucial role in plant growth and health. Within this microbiome, bacteria dominate, exhibiting traits that benefit plants, such as facilitating nutrient acquisition, fixing nitrogen, controlling pathogens, and promoting root growth. This study focuses on designing synthetic bacterial consortia using key bacterial strains which have been mapped and then isolated from the sorghum rhizosphere microbiome. A large set of samples of the rhizosphere bacteriome of Sorghum bicolor was generated and analyzed across various genotypes and geographical locations. We assessed the taxonomic composition and structure of the sorghum root-associated bacterial community identifying the most prevalent and keystone taxa. A set of 321 bacterial strains was then isolated, and three multi-strain consortia were designed making use of the bacteriome data generated using culture independent methodology. Subsequently, co-existence and plant-growth promoting ability of three bacterial consortia were tested both in vitro and in planta. Consortia 3 promoted plant growth in growth-chamber conditions while Consortia 1 and 2 performed better in field-plot experiments. Despite these differences, bacterial community profiling confirmed the colonization of the inoculated consortia in the sorghum rhizosphere without significant alterations to the overall bacterial community compared to the non inoculated ones. In summary, this study focused on a method, using root bacteriome data, to design and test bacterial consortia for plant beneficial effects with the aim of translating microbiome knowledge into applications.
The plant UDP-glycosyltransferases (UGTs) regulate several metabolic processes during root growth and development by conjugating sugar moieties to various small molecules. RsUGT71B5 is a novel UDP-glycosyltransferase in Raphanus sativus L., but its biological function is not well established. In this study, we generated RsUGT71B5-overexpressing transgenic Arabidopsis lines to determine the mechanisms by which RsUGT71B5 regulated root growth and development. Ectopic overexpression of RsUGT71B5 significantly enhanced root growth and seedling development. In culture medium supplemented with 1-3% exogenous sucrose, RsUGT71B5 overexpression increased the root length and surface area in the transgenic Arabidopsis lines compared with the wild type. Furthermore, transgenic RsUGT71B5 overexpression partially suppressed the inhibitory effects of 12% sucrose on root growth and development. RNA sequencing data analysis identified 102 differential expressed genes (DEGs), including 56 upregulated and 46 downregulated genes, in the transgenic RsUGT71B5 overexpression lines (OE). QRT-PCR analyses confirmed significant upregulation of glutathione S-transferases such as AT1G02930 (GSTF6) and AT1G02920 (GSTF7) in the transgenic RsUGT71B5 overexpression lines. KEGG pathway analyses of the DEGs showed that RsUGT71B5 overexpression regulated glutathione and sugar metabolism. In summary, this study demonstrated that RsUGT71B5 regulated root growth and development by modulating glutathione and sugar metabolism.
Heat stress poses a significant challenge for maize production, especially during the spring when high temperatures disrupt cellular processes, impeding plant growth and development. The B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) associated athanogene (BAG) gene family is known to be relatively conserved across various species. It plays a crucial role as molecular chaperone cofactors that are responsible for programmed cell death and tumorigenesis. Once the plant is under heat stress, the BAG genes act as co-chaperones and modulate the molecular functions of HSP70/HSC70 saving the plant from the damage of high temperature stress. The study was planned to identify and characterize the BAG genes for heat stress responsiveness in maize. Twenty-one (21) BAG genes were identified in the latest maize genome. The evolutionary relationship of Zea mays BAGs (ZmBAGs) with Arabidopsis thaliana, Solanum lycopersicum, Theobroma cacao, Sorghum bicolor, Ananas comosus, Physcomitrium patens, Oryza sativa and Populus trichocarpa were represented by the phylogenetic analysis. Differential expressions of BAG gene family in leaf, endosperm, anther, silk, seed and developing embryo depict their contribution to the growth and development. The in-silico gene expression analysis indicated ZmBAG-8 (Zm00001eb170080), and ZmBAG-11 (Zm00001eb237960) showed higher expression under abiotic stresses (cold, heat and salinity). The RT-qPCR further confirmed the expression of ZmBAG-8 and ZmBAG-11 in plant leaf tissue across the contrasting inbred lines and their F
The evolution and development of flowers are biologically essential and of broad interest. Maize and sorghum have similar morphologies and phylogeny while harboring different inflorescence architecture. The difference in flower architecture between these two species is likely due to spatiotemporal gene expression regulation, and they are a good model for researching the evolution of flower development. In this study, we generated single nucleus and spatial RNA-seq data for maize ear, tassel, and sorghum inflorescence. By combining single nucleus and spatial transcriptome, we can track the spatial expression of single nucleus cluster marker genes and map single nucleus clusters to spatial positions. This ability provides great power to annotate the single nucleus clusters. Combining the cell cluster resolved transcriptome comparison with genome alignment, our analysis suggested that maize ear and tassel inflorescence diversity is associated with the maize-specific whole genome duplication. Taking sorghum as the outgroup, it is likely that the loss of gene expression profiling contributes to the inflorescence diversity between tassel and ear, resulting in the unisexual flower architecture of maize. The sequence of highly expressed genes in the tassel is more conserved than the highly expressed genes in the ear. This study provides a high-resolution atlas of gene activity during inflorescence development and helps to unravel the potential evolution associated with the differentiation of the ear and tassel in maize.
Cytochrome P450s of the CYP79 family catalyze two N-hydroxylation reactions, converting a selected number of amino acids into the corresponding oximes. The sorghum genome (Sorghum bicolor) harbours nine CYP79A encoding genes, and here sequence comparisons of the CYP79As along with their substrate recognition sites (SRSs) are provided. The substrate specificity of previously uncharacterized CYP79As was investigated by transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana and subsequent transformation of the oximes formed into the corresponding stable oxime glucosides catalyzed by endogenous UDPG-glucosyltransferases (UGTs). CYP79A61 uses phenylalanine as a substrate, whereas CYP79A91, CYP79A93, and CYP79A95 use valine and isoleucine as substrates, with CYP79A93 showing the ability also to use phenylalanine. CYP79A94 uses isoleucine as a substrate. Analysis of 249 sorghum transcriptomes from two different sorghum cultivars showed the expression levels and tissue-specific expression of the CYP79As. CYP79A1 is the committed gene in dhurrin formation and was the highest expressed gene in most tissues/organs. CYP79A61 was primarily expressed in fully developed leaf blades and leaf sheaths. CYP79A91 and CYP79A92 were expressed mainly in roots >200 cm below ground, while CYP79A93 and CYP79A94 were most highly expressed in the leaf collar and leaf sheath, respectively. The possible signalling effects of the oximes and their metabolites produced in different sorghum tissues are discussed.
Hexokinases (HXK) not only facilitate carbohydrate metabolism but also play important roles in sugar sensing in higher plants. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-024-04190-5.
Heat stress affects various components of photosynthetic machinery of which Rubisco activation inhibition due to heat sensitive Rubisco activase (RCA) is the most prominent. Detailed comparison of RCA coding genes identified a tandem duplication event in the grass family lineage where the duplicated genes showed very different evolutionary pattern. One of the two genes showed high level of sequence conservation whereas the second copy, although present only 1.5 kb away, was highly variable among various plant species because of loss of introns, alternative splicing and loss of the last exon coding redox regulated C-terminal extension domain. Gene specific expression analysis, both at the transcription as well as the protein level, showed very different expression pattern of the two RCA copies. Expression of the highly conserved copy was higher under normal plant growing conditions that decreased many folds under heat stress with substantial genotypic variation, but the variable copy showed much higher expression under heat stress conditions across all grass species. The cultivated rice has only one functional gene as the second copy became nonfunctional due to multiple deletions but Oryza brachyantha and Oryza australiensis still have two functional Rca genes. Detailed analysis of the promoter region of the two copies among various plant species showed insertion of several transposable elements harboring heat responsive elements in the heat inducible copy of the gene. The conserved RCA copy of wheat didn't have any transposable insertions whereas in that of maize has one heat shock element and sorghum had two. It would be interesting to study if the higher level of heat stress tolerance observed in sorghum and maize is associated with the differences observed for RCA. Key message This manuscript is reporting a grass family-specific tandem duplication event in RCA genes of cereals. The duplicated copies underwent neo-functionalization to evolve novel function to deal with heat stress. One copy of the tandem duplication maintained a high level of conservation whereas the second copy showed tremendous divergence to evolve species specific function of the gene. Specific function to respond to heat stress likely evolved via the insertion of various heat responsive elements carried by transposable elements.
Gene expression is a fundamental process for plants to express their phenotype, and its analysis is the basis of molecular studies. However, the instability of RNA often poses an obstacle to analyzing plants grown in fields or remote locations where the availability of liquid nitrogen or dry ice is limited. To deepen our understanding of plant phenotypes and tolerance to field-specific stresses, it is crucial to develop methodologies to maintain plant RNA intact and safely transfer it for downstream analyses such as qPCR and RNA-seq. In this study, the author developed a novel tissue preservation method that involved the infiltration of RNA preservation solution into the leaf apoplast using a syringe and subsequent storage at 4 °C. RNA-seq using samples stored for 5 d and principal component analyses showed that rice leaves treated with the infiltration method maintained the original transcriptome pattern better than those treated with the traditional method when the leaves were simply immersed in the solution. Additionally, it was also found that extracted RNA can be transported with minimum risk of degradation when it is bound to the membrane of RNA extraction kits. The developed infiltration method was applied to rice plants grown in a local farmer's field in northern Madagascar to analyze the expression of nutrient-responsive genes, suggesting nutrient imbalances in some of the fields examined. This study showed that the developed infiltration method was effective in preserving the transcriptome status of rice and sorghum leaves when liquid nitrogen or a deep freezer is not available. The developed method was useful for diagnosing plants in the field based on the expression of nutrient-responsive marker genes. Moreover, the method used to protect RNA samples from degradation during transportation offers the possibility to use them for RNA-seq. This novel technique could pave the way for revealing the molecular basis of plant phenotypes by accelerating gene expression analyses using plant samples that are unique in the field.
Elucidating the intricacies of the sugarcane genome is essential for breeding superior cultivars. This economically important crop originates from hybridizations of highly polyploid Saccharum species. However, the large size (10 Gb), high degree of polyploidy, and aneuploidy of the sugarcane genome pose significant challenges to complete genome sequencing, assembly, and annotation. One successful strategy for identifying candidate genes linked to agronomic traits, particularly those associated with sugar accumulation, leverages synteny and potential collinearity with related species. In this study, we explored synteny between sorghum and sugarcane. Genes from a sorghum Brix QTL were used to screen bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries from two Brazilian sugarcane varieties (IACSP93-3046 and SP80-3280). The entire region was successfully recovered, confirming synteny and collinearity between the species. Manual annotation identified 51 genes in the hybrid varieties that were subsequently confirmed to be present in Saccharum spontaneum. This study employed a multifaceted approach to identify candidate genes for sugar accumulation, including retrieving the genomic region of interest, performing a gene-by-gene analysis, analyzing RNA-seq data for internodes from Saccharum officinarum and S. spontaneum accessions, constructing a coexpression network to examine the expression patterns of genes within the studied region and their neighbors, and finally identifying differentially expressed genes (DEGs). This comprehensive approach led to the discovery of three candidate genes potentially involved in sugar accumulation: an ethylene-responsive transcription factor (ERF), an ABA 8'-hydroxylase, and a prolyl oligopeptidase (POP). These findings could be valuable for identifying additional candidate genes for other important agricultural traits and directly targeting candidate genes for further work in molecular breeding.
The Arabidopsis transcription factor ATAF1 negatively regulates thermomorphogenesis by inhibiting the expression of key genes involved in thermoresponsive elongation. DET1-mediated ubiquitination promotes ATAF1 degradation. In response to warmer, non-stressful average temperatures, plants have evolved an adaptive morphologic response called thermomorphogenesis to increase their fitness. This adaptive morphologic development is regulated by transcription factors (TFs) that control the expression of heat-induced genes that gate thermoresponsive growth. No apical meristem (NAM), Arabidopsis thaliana-activating factor 1/2 (ATAF1/2), and cup-shaped cotyledon 2 (CUC2) (collectively known as NAC) TFs regulate morphogenesis and respond to temperature stress, but whether they regulate thermomorphogenesis remains largely unknown. Here, we identified ATAF1 as a negative regulator of thermomorphogenesis and revealed that the E3-ligase component de-etiolated 1 (DET1) mediated ATAF1 ubiquitination and degradation. Our results revealed that ATAF1 negatively regulates warm temperature-induced hypocotyl elongation and inhibits the expression of thermoresponsive genes. Moreover, ATAF1 directly targeted and repressed the expression of YUCCA 8 (YUC8) and phytochrome interacting factor 4 (PIF4), two key regulators involved in elongation. At the post-translational level, elevated ambient temperatures negatively modulated the stability of ATAF1 by inducing the DET1-mediated ubiquitination pathway. Our results demonstrated the presence of a DET1-ATAF1-PIF4/YUC8 control module for thermomorphogenesis in plants, which may increase fitness by fine-tuning thermoresponsive gene expression under warm temperatures.
1988 lncRNAs were identified in sweet sorghum roots under cadmium treatment; lncRNA 15962 and lncRNA 11558 were validated to be the key lncRNAs involved in regulating cadmium accumulation and translocation. Cadmium (Cd) has become one of the most harmful and widespread pollutants with industry development. Sweet sorghum is an ideal plant for phytoremediation of Cd-contaminated soil. However, little is known about the regulatory role of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) associated with Cd stress response in sweet sorghum. Here, lncRNA-seq was carried out in the roots of two contrasting sweet sorghum genotypes (high-Cd accumulation genotype 'H18', and low-Cd accumulation genotype 'L69'). A total of 1988 lncRNAs were characterized, including 52 and 69 differentially expressed lncRNAs in 'H18' and 'L69' in response to Cd stress, respectively. Furthermore, the trans- or cis-target genes of lncRNAs were investigated. Then, 65 lncRNAs were characterized as the probable target of 117 miRNAs and 1888 genes were identified as putative cis-target genes of Cd-responsive lncRNAs. The dual-luciferase reporter assay indicated lncRNA 15962 may serve as the endogenous target mimics of sbi-miR5565e, which targeted two genes (Sobic.005G212900 and Sobic.009G144700) involved in cell wall metabolism. Four cis-target genes including SbYS1 which encoding a Cd chelate transporter, were up-regulated by overexpression of their corresponding lncRNAs in sweet sorghum protoplasts, suggesting the positive regulatory role of lncRNAs to these cis-target genes. Moreover, the expression of SbYS1 decreased when lncRNA 11558 was inhibited by exogenous miRNA application in 'H18' seedlings, further demonstrating the positive regulatory role of lncRNA 11558 to SbYS1. Altogether, our findings shed light on the regulatory role of lncRNAs associated with Cd accumulation and translocation in sweet sorghum.
Recent advancements in agricultural technology have highlighted the potential of eco-friendly innovations, such as plasma-activated water (PAW), for enhancing seed germination, growth, and biomass production. In this study, we investigated the effects of PAW irrigation on young sorghum seedlings through phenotypic and transcriptional analyses. We measured growth parameters, including seedling height, stem thickness, and biomass, across five sorghum varieties: BTx623, Sodamchal, Noeulchal, Baremae, and Hichal. Additionally, we performed detailed analyses of stem cross-sections to evaluate the structural changes induced by PAW. Whole transcriptome analysis was conducted to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and to perform Gene Ontology (GO) analysis. Phenotypic analysis revealed significant growth enhancements in PAW-treated seedlings compared to the control group, with notable increases in seedling height, stem thickness, and biomass. Stem cross-section analysis confirmed that PAW treatment led to the enlargement of primordia tissue, leaf sheath (LS1 and LS2), and overall stem tissue area. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that 78% of the DEGs were upregulated in response to PAW, indicating that PAW acts as a positive regulator of gene expression. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis further showed that PAW treatment predominantly upregulated genes associated with transmembrane transport, response to light stimulus, oxidoreductase activity, and transcriptional regulation. Additionally, an enriched AP2/EREBP transcription binding motif was identified. These findings suggest that PAW not only enhances sorghum seedling growth through transcriptional regulation but also has the potential to optimize agricultural practices by increasing crop yield. The upregulation of genes involved in critical biological processes underscores the need for further exploration of PAW's potential in improving the productivity of sorghum and possibly other crops.
The three-amino-acid-loop-extension (TALE) is a ubiquitous homeodomain transcription factor among plant species involved in regulating plant growth, development, and environmental responses. However, this has not been systematically analyzed or reported in sorghum. In this study, 23 SbTALE genes were identified using bioinformatics and other methods at the genome level of sorghum, classified into two families, KNOX and BEL1-like family, and localized on ten chromosomes. One pair of tandem duplicated and seven pairs of segmentally duplicated genes were found, and the conserved motifs of SbTALEs among the same subfamilies were highly conserved, with highly conserved gene structures. SbTALEs genes have the most collinear genes with monocotyledonous Zea mays and are more closely related; SbTALEs have undergone purification and diversification selection in the evolutionary process. Overall, except for SbTALE21 and SbTALE23, the expression of the other six SbTALEs was higher in the stems, whereas the expression of SbTALE21 and SbTALE23 was higher in the leaves. In sorghum grain development, the lowest relative expression of SbTALEs was observed in grains in the late stage, and the expression of SbTALE21 was higher in grains in the early stage and husks in the late stage. In addition, SbTALE14 and SbTALE21 showed higher expression in the roots and stems under the cold treatment, and SbTALE02 and SbTALE12 showed higher expression in the roots and stems under the PEG treatment. Under the four hormone treatments, the expression of eight SbTALEs was relatively low in stems, the expression of SbTALE13 was higher in leaves than in roots and stems, and the expression of SbTALE23 was higher under the MeJA and SA treatments. This study lays a theoretical foundation for the study of the biological function and mechanism of SbTALE genes and is of great significance for the mining of resistance genes and trait improvement.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of dietary fermented sorghum (FS) as a substitute for corn on growth performance, jejunal histomorphology, cecal short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) levels, and gene expression of tight junctions in broiler chickens. A total of 240 one-day-old male New Lohmann Indian River chicks were randomly divided into five groups, with each group receiving different dietary treatments: a control group (CTRL) with a basal diet, groups supplemented with 10% (NFS10) and 20% (NFS20) non-fermented sorghum, and groups supplemented with 10% (FS10) and 20% (FS20) fermented sorghum. Each group was further divided into six replications, with eight birds per replicate. Orthogonal contrasts were used to compare the feed treatments (fermented sorghum and non-fermented sorghum) to the control. The results revealed that the inclusion of 20% fermented sorghum significantly increased feed intake (FI, P = 0.005), body weight (BW; P = 0.025), and body weight gain (BWG; P = 0.010) compared to other groups. Additionally, the FS20 group exhibited a notable increase in villus height (P = 0.001). There were significant differences in cecal short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) production among the treatment groups (P < 0.05). Furthermore, fermented sorghum notably upregulated the gene expression of occludin (OCLN, P = 0.008), without significant impacts on the expression of claudin-1 (CLDN-1), junctional adhesion molecules-2 (JAM-2), and zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1). In conclusion, addition of 20% fermented sorghum in broiler diets could enhance growth performance and intestinal histomorphology, indicating its potential as a beneficial feed ingredient for poultry production.
Exploring the genes regulating rice fertility is of great value for studying the molecular mechanisms of rice reproductive development and production practices. In this study, we identified a sterile mutant from the mutant library induced by ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS), designated as
C4 crops have more efficient photosynthetic pathways that enable their higher photosynthetic capacities as well as nitrogen and water use efficiencies than C3 crops. Previous research has demonstrated that the genomes of C3 species include and express every gene needed for the C4 photosynthesis pathway. However, very little is known about the dynamics and evolutionary history of such genetic evolution in C4 plants. In this study, the genes encoding five key photosynthetic pathway enzymes in the genomes of C3 (rice), C4 (maize, sorghum, and foxtail millet), and CAM (pineapple) crops were identified and compared systematically. The numbers of genes in these photosynthetic enzymes were highest in the C4 crops like sorghum and foxtail millet, while only eight genes were identified in the CAM plant. However, 16 genes were identified in the C3 crop rice. Furthermore, we performed physical, chemical, gene structure and, cis-element analyses to obtain complete insights into these key genes. Tissue-specific expressions showed that most of the photosynthetic genes are expressed in the leaf tissues. Comparisons of the expression characteristics confirmed that the expression patterns of non-photosynthetic gene copies were relatively conserved among the species, while the C4 gene copies in the C4 species acquired new tissue expression patterns during evolution. Additionally, multiple sequence features that could affect C4 gene expressions and subcellular localization were found in the coding and promoter regions. Our research also highlights the variations in how different genes have evolved within the C4 photosynthetic pathway, and we confirmed that specific high expressions in the leaves and right distribution within the cells were crucial for the development of the C4 photosynthetic abilities. The findings of this study are expected to aid in understanding the evolutionary process of the C4 photosynthetic pathway in grasses as well as offer insights for modifying the C4 photosynthetic pathways in wheat, rice, and other significant C3 cereal crops.
Phospholipase C (PLC) is an essential enzyme involved in lipid signaling pathways crucial for regulating plant growth and responding to environmental stress. In sorghum, 11 PLC genes have been identified, comprising 6
Bioenergy sorghum's large and deep nodal root system and associated microbiome enables uptake of water and nutrients from and deposition of soil organic carbon into soil profiles, key contributors to the crop's resilience and sustainability. The goal of this study was to increase our understanding of bioenergy sorghum nodal root bud development. Sorghum nodal root bud initiation was first observed on the stem node of the 7
Manipulating plant height is an essential component of crop improvement. Plant height was generally reduced through breeding in wheat, rice, and sorghum to resist lodging and increase grain yield but kept high for bioenergy crops. Here, we positionally cloned a plant height quantitative trait locus (QTL) qHT7.1 as a MYB transcription factor controlling internode elongation, cell proliferation, and cell morphology in sorghum. A 740 bp transposable element insertion in the intronic region caused a partial mis-splicing event, generating a novel transcript that included an additional exon and a premature stop codon, leading to short plant height. The dominant allele had an overall higher expression than the recessive allele across development and internode position, while both alleles' expressions peaked at 46 days after planting and progressively decreased from the top to lower internodes. The orthologue of qHT7.1 was identified to underlie the brachytic1 (br1) locus in maize. A large insertion in exon 3 and a 160 bp insertion at the promoter region were identified in the br1 mutant, while an 18 bp promoter insertion was found to be associated with reduced plant height in a natural recessive allele. CRISPR/Cas9-induced gene knockout of br1 in two maize inbred lines showed significant plant height reduction. These findings revealed functional connections across natural, mutant, and edited alleles of this MYB transcription factor in sorghum and maize. This enriched our understanding of plant height regulation and enhanced our toolbox for fine-tuning plant height for crop improvement.
Salt stress is one of the significant challenges in sorghum production, greatly impacting the yield of Members of the This study identified 49 These findings offer valuable insights into the biological research on the role of the LLRLK gene family in Sorghum bicolor's response to salt stress. The functional characterization of SORBI_3004G304700 and the identification of haplotypes associated with salt tolerance provide valuable insights for molecular breeding and genetic enhancement of sorghum.
Flavonoids in Musaceae are involved in pigmentation and stress responses, including cold resistance, and are a component of the healthy human diet. Identification and analysis of the sequence and copy number of flavonoid biosynthetic genes are valuable for understanding the nature and diversity of flavonoid evolution in Musaceae species. In this study, we identified 71-80 flavonoid biosynthetic genes in chromosome-scale genome sequence assemblies of Musaceae, including those of
Plant biomass can significantly contribute to alternative energy sources. Sorghum bicolor is a promising plant for producing energy, but is susceptible to iron deficiency, which inhibits its cultivation in iron-limiting calcareous soils. The molecular basis for the susceptibility of sorghum to iron deficiency remains unclear. Here, we explored the sorghum genome to identify genes involved in iron uptake and translocation. Iron deficiency-responsive gene expression was comparable to that in other graminaceous plants. A nicotianamine synthase gene, SbNAS1, was induced in response to iron deficiency, and SbNAS1 showed enzyme activity. Sorghum secreted 2'-deoxymugineic acid and other phytosiderophores under iron deficiency, but their levels were relatively low. Intercropping of sorghum with barley or rice rescued iron deficiency symptoms of sorghum. To produce bioengineered sorghum with enhanced tolerance to iron deficiency, we introduced four cassettes into sorghum: 35S promoter-OsIRO2 for activation of iron acquisition-related gene expression, SbIRT1 promoter-Refre1/372 for enhanced ferric-chelate reductase activity, and barley IDS3, and HvNAS1 genomic fragments for enhanced production of phytosiderophores and nicotianamine. The resultant single sorghum line exhibited enhanced secretion of phytosiderophores, increased ferric-chelate reductase activity, and improved iron uptake and leaf greenness compared with non-transformants under iron-limiting conditions. Similar traits were also conferred to rice by introducing the four cassettes. Moreover, these rice lines showed similar or better tolerance in calcareous soils and increased grain iron accumulation compared with previous rice lines carrying two or three comparable cassettes. These results provide a molecular basis for the bioengineering of sorghum tolerant of low iron availability in calcareous soils.
Black pericarp sorghum has notable value due to the biosynthesis of 3-deoxyanthocyanidins (3-DOAs), a rare class of bioactive polyphenols valued as antioxidant food additives and as bioactive compounds with cytotoxicity to human cancer cells. A metabolic and transcriptomic study was conducted to ascertain the cellular events leading to the activation of 3-DOA biosynthesis in black sorghum pericarp. Prolonged exposure of pericarp during grain maturation to high-fluence ultraviolet (UV) light resulted in elevated levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the activation of 3-DOA biosynthesis in pericarp tissues. In conjunction with 3-DOA biosynthesis was the transcriptional activation of specific family members of early and late flavonoid biosynthesis pathway genes as well as the downstream activation of defense-related pathways. Promoter analysis of genes highly correlated with 3-DOA biosynthesis in black pericarp were enriched in MYB and HHO5/ARR-B motifs. Light microscopy studies of black pericarp tissues suggest that 3-DOAs are predominantly localized in the epicarp and are associated with the cell wall. A working model of UV-induced 3-DOA biosynthesis in black pericarp is proposed that shares features of plant immunity associated with pathogen attack or mechanical wounding. The present model depicts ROS accumulation, the transcriptional activation of receptor kinases and transcription factors (TFs) including NAC, WRKY, bHLH, AP2, and C2H2 Zinc finger domain. This study identified key biosynthetic and regulatory genes of 3-DOA accumulation in black pericarp and provided a deeper understanding of the gene networks and cellular events controlling this tissue-and genotype-specific trait.
Carotenoid cleavage oxygenases (CCOs) cleave carotenoid molecules to produce bioactive products that influence the synthesis of hormones such as abscisic acid (ABA) and strigolactones (SL), which regulate plant growth, development, and stress adaptation. Here, to explore the molecular characteristics of all members of the OsCCO family in rice, fourteen
N 6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification is a crucial and widespread molecular mechanism governing plant development and stress tolerance. The specific impact of m6A regulation on plants with inherently high salt tolerance remains unclear. Existing research primarily focuses on the overexpression or knockout of individual writer or eraser components to alter m6A levels. However, a comprehensive study simultaneously altering overall m6A modification levels within the same experiment is lacking. Such an investigation is essential to determine whether opposing changes in m6A modification levels exert entirely different effects on plant salt tolerance. In this study, we identified the major writer member mRNA adenosine methylase A (SbMTA) in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) as critical for sorghum survival. The sbmta mutant exhibits a phenotype characterized by reduced overall m6A, developmental arrest, and, ultimately, lethality. Overexpression of SbMTA increased m6A levels and salt tolerance, while overexpression of the m6A eraser alkylated DNA repair protein AlkB homolog 10B (SbALKBH10B) in sorghum showed the opposite phenotype. Comparative analyses between sorghum with different m6A levels reveal that SbMTA- and SbALKBH10B-mediated m6A alterations significantly impact the stability and expression levels of genes related to the abscisic acid signaling pathway and growth under salt stress. In summary, this study unveils the intricate relationship between m6A modifications and salt tolerance in sorghum, providing valuable insights into how m6A modification levels on specific transcripts influence responses to salt stress.
Rising temperatures due to the current climate crisis will soon have devastating impacts on crop performance and resilience. In particular, CO2 assimilation is dramatically limited at high temperatures. CO2 assimilation is accomplished by rubisco, which is inhibited by the binding of inhibitory sugar phosphates to its active site. Plants therefore utilize the essential chaperone rubisco activase (RCA) to remove these inhibitors and enable continued CO2 fixation. However, RCA does not function at moderately high temperatures (42°C), resulting in impaired rubisco activity and reduced CO2 assimilation. We set out to understand temperature-dependent RCA regulation in four different C4 plants, with a focus on the crop plants maize (two cultivars) and sorghum, as well as the model grass Setaria viridis (setaria) using gas exchange measurements, which confirm that CO2 assimilation is limited by carboxylation in these organisms at high temperatures (42°C). All three species express distinct complements of RCA isoforms and each species alters the isoform and proteoform abundances in response to heat; however, the changes are species-specific. We also examine whether the heat-mediated inactivation of RCA is due to biochemical regulation rather than simple thermal denaturation. We reveal that biochemical regulation affects RCA function differently in different C4 species, and differences are apparent even between different cultivars of the same species. Our results suggest that each grass evolved different strategies to maintain RCA function during stress and we conclude that a successful engineering approach aimed at improving carbon capture in C4 grasses will need to accommodate these individual regulatory mechanisms.
Hollowness is a physiological disorder that frequently occurs during the growth and postharvest storage phases of fleshy radish roots, significantly diminishing quality, yield, and marketability. However, the molecular mechanism for hollowness remains elusive. To identify the QTLs and potential candidate genes for hollowness tolerance in radish, F
Sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] has been receiving attention as a feedstock for lignocellulose biomass energy. During the combustion process, ash-containing silicon (Si) can be produced, which causes problems in furnace maintenance. Hence, lowering Si content in plants is crucial. However, limiting Si supply to crops is difficult in practice because Si is abundant in the soil. Previously, an Si uptake transporter (SbLsi1) has been identified, and an Si-depleted mutant has also been generated in the model sorghum variety BTx623. In this study, we aimed to investigate the changes induced by a mutation in SbLsi1 on the accumulation and structure of lignin in cell walls. Through chemical and NMR analyses, we demonstrated that the lsi1 mutation resulted in a significant increase in lignin accumulation levels as well as a significant reduction in Si content. At least some of the modification was induced by transcriptional changes, as suggested by the upregulation of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis-related genes in the mutant plants. These findings derived from the model variety could be useful for the future development of practical cultivars with high biomass and less Si content for bioenergy applications.
Ethylene-insensitive 3/Ethylene-insensitive3-like proteins (EIN3/EIL) represent a group of transcription factors critical for the ethylene signaling transduction that manipulate downstream ethylene-responsive genes, thereby regulating plant growth, development, and stress responses. However, the identification, evolution, and divergence of the EIL family remain to be studied in
Silique development exerts significant impacts on crop yield. CRPs (Cysteine-rich peptides) can mediate cell-cell communication during plant reproduction and development. However, the functional characterization and regulatory mechanisms of CRPs in silique development remain unclear. In this study, we identified many CRP genes downstream of the CRP gene
In plants, RopGEF-mediated ROP signaling is pivotal in cellular signaling pathways, including apical growth, pollen germination and perception, intercellular recognition, as well as in responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. In this study, we retrieved a total of 37 RopGEF members from three C
Drought is a critical issue in modern agriculture; therefore, there is a need to create crops with drought resilience. The complexity of plant responses to abiotic stresses, particularly in the field of brassinosteroid (BR) signalling, has been the subject of extensive research. In this study, we unveil compelling insights indicating that the BRASSINOSTEROID-INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1) receptor in Arabidopsis and Sorghum plays a critical role as a negative regulator of drought responses. Introducing untargeted mutation in the sorghum BRI1 receptor (SbBRI1) effectively enhances the plant's ability to withstand osmotic and drought stress. Through DNA Affinity Purification sequencing (DAP-seq), we show that the sorghum BRI1-EMS-SUPPRESSOR 1 (SbBES1) transcription factor, a downstream player of the BR signalling, binds to a conserved G-box binding motif, and it is responsible for regulating BR homeostasis, as its Arabidopsis ortholog AtBES1. We further characterized the drought tolerance of sorghum bri1 mutants and decipher SbBES1-mediated regulation of phenylpropanoid pathway. Our findings suggest that SbBRI1 signalling serves a dual purpose: under normal conditions, it regulates lignin biosynthesis by SbBES1, but during drought conditions, BES1 becomes less active, allowing the activation of the flavonoid pathway. This adaptive shift improves the photosynthetic rate and photoprotection, reinforcing crop adaptation to drought.
The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of sorghum with or without protease and NSP-ase on performance, jejunal histomorphology, caecal short-chain fatty acids (SCFA), and gene expression of barrier function in the broiler chickens. A total of 240 males New Lohmann strain MB 202 broiler chicks (1-day-old) were randomly placed into 12 treatments with 4 replications, 5 birds per replicate for 35 d. The diets were a factorial combination of 3 levels of sorghum (0, 10, and 20%), 2 concentrations of protease (with and without protease), and 2 concentrations of NSP-ase (with and without NSP-ase). Results showed that villus height (VH) was improved (P < 0.05) and villus to crypt ratio (VH:CD) tended (P = 0.05) to increase with inclusion of sorghum. Inclusion of sorghum upregulated (P < 0.05) expression of the gene anti-inflammatory IL-13, and downregulated (P < 0.05) gene of toll receptor (TLR) (TLR-3 and TLR-4), pro-inflammatory (IL-18, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and tight junction zona occluding-1 (ZO-1). The result further indicated a decrease (P < 0.05) in the concentration of SCFA. The birds fed diets with protease had lower (P < 0.05) expression of gene TLR-4 and TLR-3, pro-inflammatory (IL-6 and TNF-α), and anti-inflammatory IL-10. Inclusion of sorghum markedly (P < 0.05) interacted with protease, increasing the total of SCFA, acetate, and VH in the broiler. The bird offered diets with NSP-ase had higher (P < 0.05) expression genes of pro-inflammatory IL-18 and TNF-α. Inclusion of sorghum and NSP-ase significantly (P < 0.05) interacted, upregulating gene of tight junction ZO-1 and anti-inflammatory IL-13 but downregulating gene TLR-3, and pro-inflammatory IL-6, while the SCFA production was decreased. Inclusion of sorghum in the diet with or without enzymes did not affect broiler performance (P > 0.05). In conclusion, a diet with sorghum improved jejunal histomorphology without negatively affecting growth performance. Additionally, supplementation with enzymes enhanced intestinal immune responses by up-regulating anti-inflammatory, and downregulating pro-inflammatory gene expression.
Heavy metal stress threatens plant growth and productivity. In this study, we investigated the effects of CuSO
Maize (Zea mays) is one of the most important crops in the world, but its yield and quality are seriously affected by diverse diseases. Identifying broad-spectrum resistance genes is crucial for developing effective strategies to control the disease in maize. In a genome-wide study in maize, we identified a G-type lectin receptor kinase ZmLecRK1, as a new resistance protein against Pythium aphanidermatum, one of the causal pathogens of stalk rot in maize. Genetic analysis showed that the specific ZmLecRK1 allele can confer resistance to multiple pathogens in maize. The cell death and disease resistance phenotype mediated by the resistant variant of ZmLecRK1 requires the co-receptor ZmBAK1. A naturally occurring A404S variant in the extracellular domain of ZmLecRK1 determines the ZmLecRK1-ZmBAK1 interaction and the formation of ZmLecRK1-related protein complexes. Interestingly, the ZmLecRK1 susceptible variant was found to possess the amino acid S404 that is present in the ancestral variants of ZmLecRK1 and conserved among the majority of grass species, while the resistance variant of ZmLecRK1 with A404 is only present in a few maize inbred lines. Substitution of S by A at position 404 in ZmLecRK1-like proteins of sorghum and rice greatly enhances their ability to induce cell death. Further transcriptomic analysis reveals that ZmLecRK1 likely regulates gene expression related to the pathways in cell wall organization or biogenesis in response to pathogen infection. Taken together, these results suggest that the ZmLecRK1 resistance variant enhances its binding affinity to the co-receptor ZmBAK1, thereby enhancing the formation of active complexes for defense in maize. Our work highlights the biotechnological potential for generating disease-resistant crops by precisely modulating the activity of ZmLecRK1 and its homologs through targeted base editing.
Sorghum is the world's fifth-largest cereal crop, and anthracnose (Colletotrichum sublineola) is the main disease affecting sorghum. However, systematic research on the cellular structure, physiological and biochemical, and genes related to anthracnose resistance and disease resistance evaluation in sorghum is lacking in the field. Upon inoculation with anthracnose (C. sublineola) spores, disease-resistant sorghum (gz93) developed a relative lesion area (RLA) that was significantly smaller than that of the disease-susceptible sorghum (gz234). The leaf thickness, length and profile area of leaf mesophyll cells, upper and lower epidermal cells decreased in the lesion area, with a greater reduction observed in gz234 than in gz93. The damage caused by C. sublineola resulted in a greater decrease in the net photosynthetic rate (Pn) in gz234 than in gz93, with early-stage reduction due to stomatal limitation and late-stage reduction caused by lesions. Overall, the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), the content of proline (Pro), abscisic acid (ABA), jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA), and gibberellic acid (GA
NLRs are a group of specific plant receptors that recognizes effectors secreted by pathogens, activates downstream immune responses, and confers resistance to pathogens. Despite variations, the functions of some NLR genes may be conserved across species, but their role in sorghum remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the stunted and yellow ripple leaf mutant sbyr1 from sorghum BTx623. Map-based cloning revealed that SbYR1 was annotated as a coiled-coil NLR with three conserved domains, namely, RX-CC, NB-ARC, and LRR, with a Thr4Met mutation in the CC domain. Inoculation experiments revealed that the sbyr1 mutation enhanced tolerance to head smut disease in sorghum. To further verify the function of SbYR1, we analysed the transcriptomes and metabolomes of the shoots of sbyr1 and BTx623. The results indicated that both the DEGs and the DAMs were enriched in secondary metabolic pathways, such as the flavonoid, JA, and ABA pathways. The increased contents of JA and ABA as a downstream effect of sbyr1 suppressed growth, whereas the application of exogenous inhibitors of JA and ABA inhibited the endogenous hormones and thus caused sbyr1 to grow productively. Overexpression and homologous gene knockout in rice confirmed that sbyr1 affects plant growth and development. In conclusion, our study revealed that a CC domain mutation in SbYR1 influences plant growth and plays a role in resistance to head smut disease and downstream secondary metabolism. KEY MESSAGE: The Thr4Met mutation in the coiled-coil domain of the NLR receptor SbYR1 coordinates plant growth and stress tolerance in sorghum.
In agronomically important C4 grasses, efficient CO2 delivery to Rubisco is facilitated by NADP-malic enzyme (C4NADP-ME), which decarboxylates malate in bundle sheath cells. However, understanding the molecular regulation of the C4NADP-ME gene in sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) is hindered by its complex genetic background. Enzymatic activity assays demonstrated that decarboxylation in sugarcane Saccharum spontaneum predominantly relies on the NADP-ME pathway, similar to sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and maize (Zea mays). Comparative genomics analysis revealed the recruitment of 8 core C4 shuttle genes, including C4NADP-ME (SsC4NADP-ME2), in the C4 pathway of sugarcane. Contrasting to sorghum and maize, the expression of SsC4NADP-ME2 in sugarcane is regulated by different transcription factors (TFs). We propose a gene regulatory network for SsC4NADP-ME2, involving candidate TFs identified through gene coexpression analysis and yeast 1-hybrid experiment. Among these, ABA INSENSITIVE5 (ABI5) was validated as the predominant regulator of SsC4NADP-ME2 expression, binding to a G-box within its promoter region. Interestingly, the core element ACGT within the regulatory G-box was conserved in sugarcane, sorghum, maize, and rice (Oryza sativa), suggesting an ancient regulatory code utilized in C4 photosynthesis. This study offers insights into SsC4NADP-ME2 regulation, crucial for optimizing sugarcane as a bioenergy crop.
Growth-regulating factor (GRF) is a plant-specific family of transcription factors crucial for meristem development and plant growth. Sorghum (
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) is a multipurpose crop grown for food, fodder, and bioenergy production. Its cultivated varieties, along with their wild counterparts, contribute to the core genetic pool. Despite the availability of several re-sequenced sorghum genomes, a variable portion of sorghum genomes is not reported during reference genome assembly and annotation. The present analysis used 223 publicly available RNA-seq datasets from seven sweet sorghum cultivars to construct superTranscriptome. This approach yielded 45,864 Representative Transcript Assemblies (RTAs) that showcased intriguing Presence/Absence Variation (PAV) across 15 published sorghum genomes. We found 301 superTranscripts were exclusive to sweet sorghum, including 58 de novo genes encoded core and linker histones, zinc finger domains, glucosyl transferases, cellulose synthase, etc. The superTranscriptome added 2,802 new protein-coding genes to the Sweet Sorghum Reference Genome (SSRG), of which 559 code for different transcription factors (TFs). Our analysis revealed that MULE-like transposases were abundant in the sweet sorghum genome and could play a hidden role in the evolution of sweet sorghum. We observed large deletions in the D locus and terminal deletions in four other NAC encoding loci in the SSRG compared to its wild progenitor (353) suggesting non-functional NAC genes contributed to trait development in sweet sorghum. Moreover, superTranscript-based methods for Differential Exon Usage (DEU) and Differential Gene Expression (DGE) analyses were more accurate than those based on the SSRG. This study demonstrates that the superTranscriptome can enhance our understanding of fundamental sorghum mechanisms, improve genome annotations, and potentially even replace the reference genome.
Squamosa promoter-binding protein-like (SPL) is a plant-specific transcription factor that is widely involved in the regulation of plant growth and development, including flower and grain development, stress responses, and secondary metabolite synthesis. However, this gene family has not been comprehensively evaluated in barley, the most adaptable cereal crop with a high nutritional value. In this study, a total of 15 HvSPL genes were identified based on the Hordeum vulgare genome. These genes were named HvSPL1 to HvSPL15 based on the chromosomal distribution of the HvSPL genes and were divided into seven groups (I, II, III, V, VI, VII, and VIII) based on the phylogenetic tree analysis. Chromosomal localization revealed one pair of tandem duplicated genes and one pair of segmental duplicated genes. The HvSPL genes exhibited the highest collinearity with the monocotyledonous plant, Zea mays (27 pairs), followed by Oryza sativa (18 pairs), Sorghum bicolor (16 pairs), and Arabidopsis thaliana (3 pairs), and the fewest homologous genes with Solanum lycopersicum (1 pair). The distribution of the HvSPL genes in the evolutionary tree was relatively scattered, and HvSPL proteins tended to cluster with SPL proteins from Z. mays and O. sativa, indicating a close relationship between HvSPL and SPL proteins from monocotyledonous plants. Finally, the spatial and temporal expression patterns of the 14 HvSPL genes from different subfamilies were determined using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Based on the results, the HvSPL gene family exhibited tissue-specific expression and played a regulatory role in grain development and abiotic stress. HvSPL genes are highly expressed in various tissues during seed development. The expression levels of HvSPL genes under the six abiotic stress conditions indicated that many genes responded to stress, especially HvSPL8, which exhibited high expression under multiple stress conditions, thereby warranting further attention. In this study, 15 SPL gene family members were identified in the genome of Hordeum vulgare, and the phylogenetic relationships, gene structure, replication events, gene expression, and potential roles of these genes in millet development were studied. Our findings lay the foundation for exploring the HvSPL genes and performing molecular breeding of barley.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) is a highly nutritional multipurpose millet crop. However, the genetic and molecular regulatory mechanisms governing sorghum grain development and the associated agronomic traits remain unexplored. In this study, we performed a comprehensive transcriptomic analysis of pistils collected 1-2 days before pollination, and developing seeds collected -2, 10, 20 and 30 days after pollination of S. bicolor variety M35-1. Out of 31 337 genes expressed in these stages, 12 804 were differentially expressed in the consecutive stages of seed development. These exhibited 10 dominant expression patterns correlated with the distinct pathways and gene functions. Functional analysis, based on the pathway mapping, transcription factor enrichment and orthology, delineated the key patterns associated with pollination, fertilization, early seed development, grain filling and seed maturation. Furthermore, colocalization with previously reported quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for grain weight/size revealed 48 differentially expressed genes mapping to these QTL regions. Comprehensive literature mining integrated with QTL mapping and expression data shortlisted 25, 17 and 8 core candidates for engineering grain size, starch and protein content, respectively.
Lignin, a complex heterogenous polymer present in virtually all plant cell walls, plays a critical role in protecting plants from various stresses. However, little is known about how lignin modifications in sorghum will impact plant defense against sugarcane aphids (SCA), a key pest of sorghum. We utilized the sorghum brown midrib (bmr) mutants, which are impaired in monolignol synthesis, to understand sorghum defense mechanisms against SCA. We found that loss of Bmr12 function and overexpression (OE) of Bmr12 provided enhanced resistance and susceptibility to SCA, respectively, as compared with wild-type (WT; RTx430) plants. Monitoring of the aphid feeding behavior indicated that SCA spent more time in reaching the first sieve element phase on bmr12 plants compared with RTx430 and Bmr12-OE plants. A combination of transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses revealed that bmr12 plants displayed altered auxin metabolism upon SCA infestation and specifically, elevated levels of auxin conjugate indole-3-acetic acid-aspartic acid (IAA-Asp) were observed in bmr12 plants compared with RTx430 and Bmr12-OE plants. Furthermore, exogenous application of IAA-Asp restored resistance in Bmr12-OE plants, and artificial diet aphid feeding trial bioassays revealed that IAA-Asp is associated with enhanced resistance to SCA. Our findings highlight the molecular underpinnings that contribute to sorghum bmr12-mediated resistance to SCA.
Phytoremediation of cadmium (Cd)-polluted soil by using sweet sorghum displays a tremendous potential as it is a fast-growing, high biomass and Cd tolerant energy plant. Previous study has demonstrated SbNRT1.1B expression change is in accordance with enhanced Cd accumulation by external nitrate supply in sweet sorghum. Nevertheless, underlying mechanism of SbNRT1.1B response to Cd stress is still elusive. SbNRT1.1B exhibited a positive response to Cd stress in sweet sorghum. Overexpressing SbNRT1.1B increased primary root length, shoot fresh weight, nitrate and chlorophyll concentrations compared with Col-0 under Cd stress, while complementary SbNRT1.1B rescued these decreased values in mutant chl1-5. Cd concentrations in overexpressing SbNRT1.1B, complementary SbNRT1.1B and Col-0 lines were 3.2-4.1, 2.5-3.1 and 1.2-2.1 folds of that in chl1-5. Consistent with Cd concentrations, non-protein thiol (NPT), reduced glutathione (GSH) and phytochelatins (PCs) concentrations as well as the related genes expression levels showed the same trends under Cd stress. GSH biosynthesis inhibitor failed to reverse the patterns of GSH-dependent PCs concentrations changes in different lines, suggesting that SbNRT1.1B plays an upstream role in GSH-dependent PCs biosynthesis under Cd treatment. Altogether, SbNRT1.1B enhances nitrate concentrations contributing to increased chlorophyll concentrations and GSH-dependent PCs metabolites biosynthesis, thereby improving growth and Cd concentrations in plants.
Water scarcity is a major environmental constraint on plant growth in arid regions. Soluble sugars and amino acids are essential osmolytes for plants to cope with osmotic stresses. Sweet sorghum is an important bioenergy crop and forage with strong adaptabilities to adverse environments; however, the accumulation pattern and biosynthesis basis of soluble sugars and amino acids in this species under osmotic stresses remain elusive. Here, we investigated the physiological responses of a sweet sorghum cultivar to PEG-induced osmotic stresses, analyzed differentially accumulated soluble sugars and amino acids after 20% PEG treatment using metabolome profiling, and identified key genes involved in the biosynthesis pathways of soluble sugars and amino acids using transcriptome sequencing. The results showed that the growth and photosynthesis of sweet sorghum seedlings were significantly inhibited by more than 20% PEG. After PEG treatments, the leaf osmotic adjustment ability was strengthened, while the contents of major inorganic osmolytes, including K
The pollen wall protects pollen during dispersal and is critical for pollination recognition. In the Poaceae family, the pollen exine stereostructure exhibits a high degree of conservation with similar patterns across species. However, there remains controversy regarding the conservation of key factors involved in its formation among various Poaceae species.
Cadmium (Cd) pollution in the soil is a serious environmental issue worldwide. Phytoextraction of Cd-polluted soil is a cost-effective, sustainable and environmentally-friendly strategy. Agricultural fertilizer management is beneficial for promoting the Cd phytoremediation efficiency. Potassium (K) is the nutrient required in the largest amount cation by plants. Sweet sorghum exhibits a substantial phytoremediation potential of Cd-polluted soil. Clarifying the mechanism of K-mediated Cd accumulation in sweet sorghum is imperative. Sweet sorghum plants were grown hydroponically with an extra K supply in the presence or absence of Cd treatment. An extra K application significantly increased plant growth under non-Cd addition, while K lost the profitable effect under Cd stress. K supplementation remarkably enhanced Cd concentrations and Cd accumulation in shoots and roots of sweet sorghum. Transcriptome analysis demonstrated that zinc ion transport, cysteine and methionine metabolism, flavonoid biosynthesis and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathways might contribute to the increased Cd accumulation as affected by an extra K supply. Furthermore, SbZIP9, SbSTP8, SbYS1, SbMAG and SbFOMT-like were targeted as they closely correlated with both plant growth and Cd stress in sweet sorghum. SbFOMT-like showed an independent pathway, while SbZIP9, SbSTP8, SbYS1 and SbMAG displayed positive correlations mutually. Notably, SbZIP9 and SbFOMT-like were highly expressed when compared with other target genes. Taken together, SbZIP9 and SbFOMT-like were upregulated and downregulated by an extra K supply under Cd stress, suggesting that SbZIP9 and SbFOMT-like enhances and declines Cd accumulation as regulated by K addition in sweet sorghum respectively.
Shoot branches grow from axillary buds and play a crucial role in shaping shoot architecture and determining crop yield. Shade signals inactivate phytochrome B (phyB) and induce bud dormancy, thereby inhibiting shoot branching. Prior transcriptome profiling of axillary bud dormancy in a phyB-deficient mutant (58M,
Plant cell culture technology helps to obtain natural plant-derived metabolites. The callus of sorghum, a prominent cereal crop, possesses various metabolites with potential health benefits. However, the epigenetic mechanism regulating metabolic biosynthetic capabilities in sorghum remains unknown. Therefore, we conducted N6-methyladenine (6mA) methylome analysis using transcriptome profiling and metabolome analysis to investigate the role of 6mA alterations in two calluses having different biosynthetic capacities, which were derived from immature sorghum embryos. Our findings indicate that the 6mA upregulation within gene bodies is crucial in transcriptional activity potentially mediated by the DNA demethylase SbALKBH1. Furthermore, 6mA was significantly enriched in genes involved in the biosynthesis of flavonoids and isoflavonoids. This could serve as a novel source of bioactive compounds for human health. Thus, 6mA could play an essential role in flavonoid biosynthesis in the sorghum callus.
In recent years, covalent modifications on RNA nucleotides have emerged as pivotal moieties influencing the structure, function, and regulatory processes of RNA Polymerase II transcripts such as mRNAs and lncRNAs. However, our understanding of their biological roles and whether these roles are conserved across eukaryotes remains limited. In this study, we leveraged standard polyadenylation-enriched RNA-sequencing data to identify and characterize RNA modifications that introduce base-pairing errors into cDNA reads. Our investigation incorporated data from three Poaceae (Zea mays, Sorghum bicolor, and Setaria italica), as well as publicly available data from a range of stress and genetic contexts in Sorghum and Arabidopsis thaliana. We uncovered a strong enrichment of RNA covalent modifications (RCMs) deposited on a conserved core set of nuclear mRNAs involved in photosynthesis and translation across these species. However, the cohort of modified transcripts changed based on environmental context and developmental program, a pattern that was also conserved across flowering plants. We determined that RCMs can partly explain accession-level differences in drought tolerance in Sorghum, with stress-associated genes receiving a higher level of RCMs in a drought tolerant accession. To address function, we determined that RCMs are significantly enriched near exon junctions within coding regions, suggesting an association with splicing. Intriguingly, we found that these base-pair disrupting RCMs are associated with stable mRNAs, are highly correlated with protein abundance, and thus likely associated with facilitating translation. Our data point to a conserved role for RCMs in mRNA stability and translation across the flowering plant lineage.
Auxin Response Factors (ARFs) make up a plant-specific transcription factor family that mainly couples perception of the phytohormone, auxin, and gene expression programs and plays an important and multi-faceted role during plant growth and development. Lemongrass (
Trichoderma, a highly abundant soil fungus, may benefit plants, yet it remains understudied in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). In this study, sorghum plants were grown for 5 weeks in pots of soil with or without inoculation of T. afroharzianum T22. Inoculation with T. afroharzianum T22 significantly increased growth parameters and nutrient levels, demonstrating its beneficial role in sorghum. A split-root assay demonstrated that T. afroharzianum T22 is essential in both compartments of the pot for promoting plant growth, suggesting that local signals from this fungus drive symbiotic benefits in sorghum. RNA-seq analysis revealed that inoculation with T. afroharzianum T22 induced genes responsible for mineral transport (such as nitrate and aquaporin transporters), auxin response, sugar assimilation (hexokinase), and disease resistance (thaumatin) in sorghum roots. Microbial community analysis further unveiled the positive role of T. afroharzianum T22 in enriching Penicillium and Streptomyces while reducing disease-causing Fusarium in the roots. The microbial consortium, consisting of enriched microbiomes from bacterial and fungal communities, showed disrupted morphological features in plants inoculated with T. afroharzianum T22 in the absence of Streptomyces griseus. However, this disruption was not observed in the absence of Penicillium chrysogenum. These results indicate that S. griseus acts as a helper microbe in close association with T. afroharzianum T22 in the sorghum endosphere. This study provides the first comprehensive explanation of how T. afroharzianum T22 modulates host molecular determinants and endophytic helper microbes, thereby collectively promoting sorghum growth. These findings may facilitate the formulation of synthetic microbial inoculants dominated by T. afroharzianum T22 to enhance growth and stress resilience in sorghum and similar crops.
Sorghum seeds can discolor during storage. Treatment of seeds with citric acid improves sensory quality and antioxidant activity. This study compared the differences in phenotypic and antioxidant activity between citric acid-treated and water-treated sorghum seeds. The study used transcriptomics and metabolomics approaches to investigate the regulatory mechanisms. The ∆a, ∆b and ∆l values of citric acid-treated sorghum seeds significantly increased after 6 months of storage. The SOD, POD and CAT enzyme activities of the citric acid-treated group were 1.94, 1.91 and 2.45 times higher than those of the control, respectively. The joint transcriptome and metabolome analysis showed that the citric acid-induced changes were mainly focused on the flavonoid biosynthetic pathway. Citric acid treatment up-regulated CHS, ANR, MYB and bHLH genes and promoted flavonoid accumulation. In conclusion, citric acid treatment promotes flavonoid accumulation, delays sorghum seed discoloration, and enhances antioxidant activity and storage life.
Appropriate reference genes must be selected for accurate qRT-PCR data to conduct a thorough gene expression analysis in the sorghum aphid (
Cuticular wax (CW) is the first defensive barrier of plants that forms a waterproof barrier, protects the plant from desiccation, and defends against insects, pathogens, and UV radiation. Sorghum, an important grass crop with high heat and drought tolerance, exhibits a much higher wax load than other grasses and the model plant Arabidopsis. In this study, we explored the regulation of sorghum CW biosynthesis using a bloomless mutant. The CW on leaf sheaths of the bloomless 41 (bm41) mutant showed significantly reduced very long-chain fatty acids (VLCFAs), triterpenoids, alcohols, and other wax components, with an overall 86% decrease in total wax content compared with the wild type. Notably, the 28-carbon and 30-carbon VLCFAs were decreased in the mutants. Using bulk segregant analysis, we identified the causal gene of the bloomless phenotype as a leucine-rich repeat transmembrane protein kinase. Transcriptome analysis of the wild-type and bm41 mutant leaf sheaths revealed BM41 as a positive regulator of lipid biosynthesis and steroid metabolism. BM41 may regulate CW biosynthesis by regulating the expression of the gene encoding 3-ketoacyl-CoA synthase 6. Identification of BM41 as a new regulator of CW biosynthesis provides fundamental knowledge for improving grass crops' heat and drought tolerance by increasing CW.
The switch defective/sucrose non-fermentable (SWI/SNF) multisubunit complex plays an important role in the regulation of gene expression by remodeling chromatin structure. Three SWI/SNF complexes have been identified in
Cereal seeds are vital for food, feed, and agricultural sustainability because they store and provide essential nutrients to human and animal food and feed systems. Unraveling molecular processes in seed development is crucial for enhancing cereal grain yield and quality. We analyze spatiotemporal transcriptome and metabolome profiles during sorghum seed development in the inbred line 'BTx623'. Morphological and molecular analyses identify the key stages of seed maturation, specifying starch biosynthesis onset at 5 days post-anthesis (dpa) and protein at 10 dpa. Transcriptome profiling from 1 to 25 dpa reveal dynamic gene expression pathways, shifting from cellular growth and embryo development (1-5 dpa) to cell division, fatty acid biosynthesis (5-25 dpa), and seed storage compounds synthesis in the endosperm (5-25 dpa). Network analysis identifies 361 and 207 hub genes linked to starch and protein synthesis in the endosperm, respectively, which will help breeders enhance sorghum grain quality. The availability of this data in the sorghum reference genome line establishes a baseline for future studies as new pangenomes emerge, which will consider copy number and presence-absence variation in functional food traits.
The rhizosphere constitutes a dynamic interface between plant hosts and their associated microbial communities. Despite the acknowledged potential for enhancing plant fitness by manipulating the rhizosphere, the engineering of the rhizosphere microbiome through inoculation has posed significant challenges. These challenges are thought to arise from the competitive microbial ecosystem where introduced microbes must survive, and the absence of adaptation to the specific metabolic and environmental demands of the rhizosphere. Here, we engineered a synthetic rhizosphere community (SRC1) with the anticipation that it would exhibit a selective advantage in colonizing the host Sorghum bicolor, thereby potentially fostering its growth. SRC1 was assembled from bacterial isolates identified either for their potential role in community cohesion through network analysis or for their ability to benefit from host-specific exudate compounds. The growth performance of SRC1 was assessed in vitro on solid media, in planta under gnotobiotic laboratory conditions, and in the field. Our findings reveal that SRC1 cohesion is most robust when cultivated in the presence of the plant host under laboratory conditions, with lineages being lost from the community when grown either in vitro or in a native field setting. We establish that SRC1 effectively promotes the growth of both above- and below-ground plant phenotypes in both laboratory and native field contexts. Furthermore, in laboratory conditions, these growth enhancements correlate with the transcriptional dampening of lignin biosynthesis in the host. Collectively, these results underscore the potential utility of synthetic microbial communities for modulating crop performance in controlled and native environments alike.
Drought stress strongly affects crop yield. Although knowledge of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) has been updated continuously and rapidly, information about lncRNAs in drought resistance regulation is extremely limited in sorghum. Here, lncRNA-sequencing was performed with seedlings of a sorghum cultivar (Jinza29) under three water control treatments to investigate the mechanism of lncRNAs responsible for drought resistance in sorghum. A total of 377 differentially expressed lncRNAs (DElncRNAs) were identified. We also predicted 4322 and 2827 transcripts as potential cis-target and trans-target genes for drought-responsive lncRNAs, respectively. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis showed that those target genes exhibited marked enrichment into "oxidoreductase activity", "signal transducer activity", "DNA repair", "photosynthesis", "glutathione metabolism", and "phenylpropanoid biosynthesis" and other terms associated with abiotic stress resistance. Moreover, several lncRNAs were estimated to modulate the expression of other genes related to stress response and photosynthetic carbon metabolism. Additionally, we found 107 DElncRNAs that might be candidate target mimics for 56 miRNAs. LncRNAs play important roles in drought adaptation of sorghum through interacting with protein-encoding genes. The obtained results provided novel insights into the biological characteristics of lncRNAs and offered potential regulatory factors for genetically enhancing drought resistance in sorghum.
The OVATE gene family plays an important role in regulating the development of plant organs and resisting stress, but its expression characteristics and functions in sorghum have not been revealed. In this study, we identified 26 OVATE genes in the sorghum BTx623 genome, which were divided into four groups and distributed unevenly across 9 chromosomes. Evolutionary analysis showed that after differentiation between sorghum and Arabidopsis, the OVATE gene family may have experienced unique expansion events, and all OVATE family members were negatively selected. Transcriptome sequencing and RT-qPCR results showed that OVATE genes in sorghum showed diverse expression characteristics, such as gene SORBl_3001G468900 and SORBl_3009G173400 were significantly expressed in seeds, while SORBI_3005G042700 and SORBI_3002G417700 were only highly expressed in L1. Meantime, in the promoter region, a large number of hormone-associated cis-acting elements were identified, and these results suggest that members of the OVATE gene family may be involved in regulating specific development of sorghum leaves and seeds. This study improves the understanding of the OVATE gene family of sorghum and provides important clues for further exploration of the function of the OVATE gene family.
Drought stress is one of the most severe natural disasters in terms of its frequency, length, impact intensity, and associated losses, making it a significant threat to agricultural productivity. Sorghum (
The characterisation of PLA genes in the sorghum genome using in-silico methods revealed their essential roles in cellular processes, providing a foundation for further detailed studies. Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench is the fifth most cultivated crop worldwide, and it is used in many ways, but it has always gained less popularity due to the yield, pest, and environmental constraints. Improving genetic background and developing better varieties is crucial for better sorghum production in semi-arid tropical regions. This study focuses on the phospholipase A (PLA) family within sorghum, comprehensively characterising PLA genes and their expression across different tissues. The investigation identified 32 PLA genes in the sorghum genome, offering insights into their chromosomal localization, molecular weight, isoelectric point, and subcellular distribution through bioinformatics tools. PLA-like family genes are classified into three groups, namely patatin-related phospholipase A (pPLA), phospholipase A1 (PLA
Plant growth and development are severely threatened by drought and salt stresses. Compared with structural genes, transcription factors (TFs) play more pivotal roles in plant growth and stress adaptation. However, the underlying mechanisms of sorghum adapting to drought and salt are insufficient, and systematic analysis of TFs in response to the above stresses is lacking. In this study, TFs were identified in sorghum and model plants (Arabidopsis thaliana and rice), and gene number and conserved domain were compared between sorghum and model plants. According to syntenic analysis, the expansion of sorghum and rice TFs may be due to whole-genome duplications. Between sorghum and model plants TFs, specific conserved domains were identified and they may be related to functional diversification of TFs. Forty-five key genes in sorghum, including four TFs, were likely responsible for drought adaption based on differently expression analysis. MiR5072 and its target gene (Sobic.001G449600) may refer to the determination of sorghum drought resistance according to small RNA and degradome analysis. Six genes were associated with drought adaptation of sorghum based on weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Similarly, the core genes in response to salt were also characterized using the above methods. Finally, 15 candidate genes, particularly two TFs (Sobic.004G300300, HD-ZIP; Sobic.003G244100, bZIP), involved in combined drought and salt resistance of sorghum were identified. In summary, the findings in this study help clarify the molecular mechanisms of sorghum responding to drought and salt. We identified candidate genes and provide important genetic resource for potential development of drought-tolerant and salt-tolerant sorghum plants.
The sorghum aphid Melanaphis sacchari (Zehntner) (Homoptera: Aphididae) is an important insect in the late growth phase of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.). However, the mechanisms of sorghum response to aphid infestation are unclear. In this paper, the mechanisms of aphid resistance in different types of sorghum varieties were revealed by studying the epidermal cell structure and performing a transcriptome and metabolome association analysis of aphid-resistant and aphid-susceptible varieties. The epidermal cell results showed that the resistance of sorghum to aphids was positively correlated with epidermal cell regularity and negatively correlated with the intercellular space and leaf thickness. Transcriptome and metabolomic analyses showed that differentially expressed genes in the resistant variety HN16 and susceptible variety BTX623 were mainly enriched in the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway and differentially expressed metabolites were mainly related to isoflavonoid biosynthesis and flavonoid biosynthesis. The q-PCR results of key genes were consistent with the transcriptome expression results. Meanwhile, the metabolome test results showed that after aphidinfestation, naringenin and genistein were significantly upregulated in the aphid-resistant variety HN16 and aphid-susceptible variety BTX623 while luteolin was only significantly upregulated in BTX623. These results show that naringenin, genistein, and luteolin play important roles in plant resistance to aphid infestation. The results of exogenous spraying tests showed that a 1‰ concentration of naringenin and genistein is optimal for improving sorghum resistance to aphid feeding. In summary, the physical properties of the sorghum leaf structure related to aphid resistance were studied to provide a reference for the breeding of aphid-resistant varieties. The flavonoid biosynthesis pathway plays an important role in the response of sorghum aphids and represents an important basis for the biological control of these pests. The results of the spraying experiment provide insights for developing anti-aphid substances in the future.
Phospholipases constitute a diverse category of enzymes responsible for the breakdown of phospholipids. Their involvement in signal transduction with a pivotal role in plant development and stress responses is well documented. In the present investigation, a thorough genome-wide analysis revealed that the pearl millet genome contains at least 44 phospholipase genes distributed across its 7 chromosomes, with chromosome one harbouring the highest number of these genes. The synteny analysis suggested a close genetic relationship of pearl millet phospholipases with that of foxtail millet and sorghum. All identified genes were examined to unravel their gene structures, protein attributes, cis-regulatory elements, and expression patterns in two pearl millet genotypes contrasting for rancidity. All the phospholipases have a high alpha-helix content and distorted regions within the predicted secondary structures. Moreover, many of these enzymes possess binding sites for both metal and non-metal ligands. Additionally, the putative promoter regions associated with these genes exhibit multiple copies of cis-elements specifically responsive to biotic and abiotic stress factors and signaling molecules. The transcriptional profiling of 44 phospholipase genes in two genotypes contrasting for rancidity across six key tissues during pearl millet growth revealed a predominant expression in grains, followed by seed coat and endosperm. Specifically, the genes PgPLD-alpha1-1, PgPLD-alpha1-5, PgPLD-delta1-7a, PgPLA1-II-1a, and PgPLD-delta1-2a exhibited notable expression in grains of both the genotypes while showing negligible expression in the other five tissues. The sequence alignment of putative promoters revealed several variations including SNPs and InDels. These variations resulted in modifications to the corresponding cis-acting elements, forming distinct transcription factor binding sites suggesting the transcriptional-level regulation for these five genes in pearl millet. The current study utilized a genome-wide computational analysis to characterize the phospholipase gene family in pearl millet. A comprehensive expression profile of 44 phospholipases led to the identification of five grain-specific candidates. This underscores a potential role for at least these five genes in grain quality traits including the regulation of rancidity in pearl millet. Therefore, this study marks the first exploration highlighting the possible impact of phospholipases towards enhancing agronomic traits in pearl millet.
Analyze the evolutionary pattern of DNAJ protein genes in the Panicoideae, including pearl millet, to identify and characterize the biological function of PgDNAJ genes in pearl millet. Global warming has become a major factor threatening food security and human development. It is urgent to analyze the heat-tolerant mechanism of plants and cultivate crops that are adapted to high temperature conditions. The Panicoideae are the second largest subfamily of the Poaceae, widely distributed in warm temperate and tropical regions. Many of these species have been reported to have strong adaptability to high temperature stress, such as pearl millet, foxtail millet and sorghum. The evolutionary differences in DNAJ protein genes among 12 Panicoideae species and 10 other species were identified and analyzed. Among them, 79% of Panicoideae DNAJ protein genes were associated with retrotransposon insertion. Analysis of the DNAJ protein pan-gene family in six pearl millet accessions revealed that the non-core genes contained significantly more TEs than the core genes. By identifying and analyzing the distribution and types of TEs near the DNAJ protein genes, it was found that the insertion of Copia and Gypsy retrotransposons provided the source of expansion for the DNAJ protein genes in the Panicoideae. Based on the analysis of the evolutionary pattern of DNAJ protein genes in Panicoideae, the PgDNAJ was obtained from pearl millet through identification. PgDNAJ reduces the accumulation of reactive oxygen species caused by high temperature by activating ascorbate peroxidase (APX), thereby improving the heat resistance of plants. In summary, these data provide new ideas for mining potential heat-tolerant genes in Panicoideae, and help to improve the heat tolerance of other crops.
Sorghum germplasm showed grain Fe and Zn genetic variability, but a few varieties were biofortified with these minerals. This work contributes to narrowing this gap. Fe and Zn concentrations along with 55,068 high-quality GBS SNP data from 140 sorghum accessions were used in this study. Both micronutrients exhibited good variability with respective ranges of 22.09-52.55 ppm and 17.92-43.16 ppm. Significant marker-trait associations were identified on chromosomes 1, 3, and 5. Two major effect SNPs (S01_72265728 and S05_58213541) explained 35% and 32% of Fe and Zn phenotypic variance, respectively. The SNP S01_72265728 was identified in the cytochrome P450 gene and showed a positive effect on Fe accumulation in the kernel, while S05_58213541 was intergenic near Sobic.005G134800 (zinc-binding ribosomal protein) and showed negative effect on Zn. Tissue-specific in silico expression analysis resulted in higher levels of Sobic.003G350800 gene product in several tissues such as leaf, root, flower, panicle, and stem. Sobic.005G188300 and Sobic.001G463800 were expressed moderately at grain maturity and anthesis in leaf, root, panicle, and seed tissues. The candidate genes expressed in leaves, stems, and grains will be targeted to improve grain and stover quality. The haplotypes identified will be useful in forward genetics breeding.
Chilling stress threatens plant growth and development, particularly affecting membrane fluidity and cellular integrity. Understanding plant membrane responses to chilling stress is important for unraveling the molecular mechanisms of stress tolerance. Whereas core transcriptional responses to chilling stress and stress tolerance are conserved across species, the associated changes in membrane lipids appear to be less conserved, as which lipids are affected by chilling stress varies by species. Here, we investigated changes in gene expression and membrane lipids in response to chilling stress during one 24 h cycle in chilling-tolerant foxtail millet (Setaria italica), and chilling-sensitive sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and Urochloa (browntop signal grass, Urochloa fusca, lipids only), leveraging their evolutionary relatedness and differing levels of chilling stress tolerance. We show that most chilling-induced lipid changes are conserved across the three species, while we observed distinct, time-specific responses in chilling-tolerant foxtail millet, indicating the presence of a finely orchestrated adaptive mechanism. We detected rhythmicity in lipid responses to chilling stress in the three grasses, which were also present in Arabidopsis thaliana, suggesting the conservation of rhythmic patterns across species and highlighting the importance of accounting for time of day. When integrating lipid datasets with gene expression profiles, we identified potential candidate genes that showed corresponding transcriptional changes in response to chilling stress, providing insights into the differences in regulatory mechanisms between chilling-sensitive sorghum and chilling-tolerant foxtail millet.
We identified a SbPLSH1gene conferring purple leaf sheath in sorghum (sorghumbicolor(L.) Moench)and developed a functional markerfor it. The purple leaf sheath of sorghum, a trait mostly related to anthocyanin deposition, is a visually distinguishable morphological marker widely used to evaluate the purity of crop hybrids. We aimed to dissect the genetic mechanism for leaf sheath color to mine the genes regulating this trait. In this study, two F
Over evolutionary time, plants have developed sophisticated regulatory mechanisms to adapt to fluctuating nitrogen (N) environments, ensuring that their growth is balanced with their responses to N stress. This study explored the potential of L-tryptophan (Trp) in regulating sorghum root growth under conditions of N limitation. Here, two distinct sorghum genotypes (low-N tolerance 398B and low-N sensitive CS3541) were utilized for investigating effect of low-N stress on root morphology and conducting a comparative transcriptomics analysis. Our foundings indicated that 398B exhibited longer roots, greater root dry weights, and a higher Trp content compared to CS3541 under low-N conditions. Furthermore, transcriptome analysis revealed substantial differences in gene expression profiles related to Trp pathway and carbon (C) and N metabolism pathways between the two genotypes. Additional experiments were conducted to assess the effects of exogenous Trp treatment on the interplay between sorghum root growth and low-N tolerance. Our observations showed that Trp-treated plants developed longer root and had elevated levels of Trp and IAA under low-N conditons. Concurrently, these plants demonstrated stronger physiological activities in C and N metabolism when subjected to low-N stress. These results underscored the pivotal role of Trp on root growth and low-N stress responses by balancing IAA levels and C and N metabolism. This study not only deepens our understanding of how plants maintain growth plasticity during environmental stress but also provides valuable insights into the availability of amino acid in crops, which could be instrumental in developing strategies for promoting crop resilience to N deficiency.
The COMPASS-like complex, responsible for depositing H3K4 methylation, exhibits a conserved composition across yeast, plants, and animals, with functional analysis highlighting its crucial roles in plant development and stress response. In this study, we identified nine genes encoding four subunits of the COMPASS-like complex through homologous search. Phylogenetic analysis revealed the presence of two additional ASH2 genes in the sorghum genome, specifically expressed in endosperms, suggesting the formation of a unique COMPASS-like complex in sorghum endosperms. Y2H and BiFC protein-protein interaction tests demonstrated the interaction between SbRbBP5 and SbASH2A/B/C, while the association between other subunits appeared weak, possibly due to sequence variations in SbWDR5 or synergistic interactions among COMPASS-like complex subunits. The interaction between ATX1 and the C-Terminal Domain (CTD) of Pol II, reported in Arabidopsis, was not detected in sorghum. However, we made the novel discovery of transcriptional activation activity in RbBP5, which is conserved in sorghum, rice, and Arabidopsis, providing valuable insights into the mechanism by which the COMPASS-like complex regulates gene expression in plants.
Ionic and metal toxicity in plants is still a global problem for the environment, agricultural productivity and ultimately poses human health threats when these metal ions accumulate in edible organs of plants. Metal and ion transport from cytosol to the vacuole is considered an important component of metal and ion tolerance and a plant's potential utility in phytoremediation. Finger millet (Eleusine coracana) is an orphan crop but has prominent nutritional value in comparison to other cereals. Previous transcriptomic studies suggested that one of the calcium/proton exchanger (EcCAX3) is strongly upregulated during different developmental stages of spikes development in plant. This finding led us to speculate that high calcium accumulation in the grain might be because of CAX3 function. Moreover, phylogenetic analysis shows that EcCAX3 is more closely related to foxtail millet, sorghum and rice CAX3 protein. To decipher the functional role of EcCAX3, we have adopted complementation of yeast triple mutant K677 (Δpmc1Δvcx1Δcnb1), which has defective calcium transport machinery. Furthermore, metal tolerance assay shows that EcCAX3 expression conferred tolerance to different metal stresses in yeast. The gain-of-function study suggests that EcCAX3 overexpressing Arabidopsis plants shows better tolerance to higher concentration of different metal ions as compared to wild type Col-0 plants. EcCAX3-overexpression transgenic lines exhibits abundance of metal transporters and cation exchanger transporter transcripts under metal stress conditions. Furthermore, EcCAX3-overexpression lines have higher accumulation of macro- and micro-elements under different metal stress. Overall, this finding highlights the functional role of EcCAX3 in the regulation of metal and ion homeostasis and this could be potentially utilized to engineer metal fortification and generation of stress tolerant crops in near future.
Saccharum spontaneum L. is a closely related species of sugarcane and has become an important genetic component of modern sugarcane cultivars. Stem development is one of the important factors for affecting the yield, while the molecular mechanism of stem development remains poorly understanding in S. spontaneum. Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) is a vital component of both primary and secondary metabolism, contributing significantly to plant growth, development and stress defense. However, the current knowledge about PAL genes in S. spontaneum is still limited. Thus, identification and characterization of the PAL genes by transcriptome analysis will provide a theoretical basis for further investigation of the function of PAL gene in sugarcane. In this study, 42 of PAL genes were identified, including 26 SsPAL genes from S. spontaneum, 8 ShPAL genes from sugarcane cultivar R570, and 8 SbPAL genes from sorghum. Phylogenetic analysis showed that SsPAL genes were divided into three groups, potentially influenced by long-term natural selection. Notably, 20 SsPAL genes were existed on chromosomes 4 and 5, indicating that they are highly conserved in S. spontaneum. This conservation is likely a result of the prevalence of whole-genome replications within this gene family. The upstream sequence of PAL genes were found to contain conserved cis-acting elements such as G-box and SP1, GT1-motif and CAT-box, which collectively regulate the growth and development of S. spontaneum. Furthermore, quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis showed that SsPAL genes of stem had a significantly upregulated than that of leaves, suggesting that they may promote the stem growth and development, particularly in the + 6 stem (The sixth cane stalk from the top to down) during the growth stage. The results of this study revealed the molecular characteristics of SsPAL genes and indicated that they may play a vital role in stem growth and development of S. spontaneum. Altogether, our findings will promote the understanding of the molecular mechanism of S. spontaneum stem development, and also contribute to the sugarcane genetic improving.
Expression profiling of NF-Y transcription factors during dehydration and salt stress in finger millet genotypes contrastingly differing in tolerance levels identifies candidate genes for further characterization and functional studies. The Nuclear Factor-Y (NF-Y) transcription factors are known for imparting abiotic stress tolerance in different plant species. However, there is no information on the role of this transcription factor family in naturally drought-tolerant crop finger millet (Eleusine coracana L.). Therefore, interpretation of expression profiles against drought and salinity stress may provide valuable insights into specific and/or overlapping expression patterns of Eleusine coracana Nuclear Factor-Y (EcNF-Y) genes. Given this, we identified 59 NF-Y (18 NF-YA, 23 NF-YB, and 18 NF-YC) encoding genes and designated them EcNF-Y genes. Expression profiling of these genes was performed in two finger millet genotypes, PES400 (dehydration and salt stress tolerant) and VR708 (dehydration and salt stress sensitive), subjected to PEG-induced dehydration and salt (NaCl) stresses at different time intervals (0, 6, and 12 h). The qRT-PCR expression analysis reveals that the six EcNF-Y genes namely EcNF-YA1, EcNF-YA5, EcNF-YA16, EcNF-YB6, EcNF-YB10, and EcNF-YC2 might be associated with tolerance to both dehydration and salinity stress in early stress condition (6 h), suggesting the involvement of these genes in multiple stress responses in tolerant genotype. In contrast, the transcript abundance of finger millet EcNF-YA5 genes was also observed in the sensitive genotype VR708 under late stress conditions (12 h) of both dehydration and salinity stress. Therefore, the EcNF-YA5 gene might be important for adaptation to salinity and dehydration stress in sensitive finger millet genotypes. Therefore, this gene could be considered as a susceptibility determinant, which can be edited to impart tolerance. The phylogenetic analyses revealed that finger millet NF-Y genes share strong evolutionary and functional relationship to NF-Ys governing response to abiotic stresses in rice, sorghum, maize, and wheat. This is the first report of expression profiling of EcNF-Ys genes identified from the finger millet genome and reveals potential candidate for enhancing dehydration and salt tolerance.
Although much less common than anthocyanins, 3-Deoxyanthocyanidins (3-DAs) and their glucosides can be found in cereals such as red sorghum. It is speculated that their bioavailability is higher than that of anthocyanins. Thus far, little is known regarding the therapeutic effects of 3-DAs and their O-β-D-glucosides on cancer, including prostate cancer. Thus, we evaluated their potential to decrease cell viability, to modulate the activity of transcription factors such as NFκB, CREB, and SOX, and to regulate the expression of the gene
Cereal crops are crucial for global food security; however, they are susceptible to various environmental stresses that significantly hamper their productivity. In response, melatonin has emerged as a promising regulator, offering potential benefits for stress tolerance and crop growth. This review explores the effects of melatonin on maize, sorghum, millet, rice, barley, and wheat, aiming to enhance their resilience to stress. The application of melatonin has shown promising outcomes, improving water use efficiency and reducing transpiration rates in millet under drought stress conditions. Furthermore, it enhances the salinity and heavy metal tolerance of millet by regulating the activity of stress-responsive genes. Similarly, melatonin application in sorghum enhances its resistance to high temperatures, low humidity, and nutrient deficiency, potentially involving the modulation of antioxidant defense and aspects related to photosynthetic genes. Melatonin also exerts protective effects against drought, salinity, heavy metal, extreme temperatures, and waterlogging stresses in maize, wheat, rice, and barley crops by decreasing reactive oxygen species (ROS) production through regulating the antioxidant defense system. The molecular reactions of melatonin upregulated photosynthesis, antioxidant defense mechanisms, the metabolic pathway, and genes and downregulated stress susceptibility genes. In conclusion, melatonin serves as a versatile tool in cereal crops, bolstering stress resistance and promoting sustainable development. Further investigations are warranted to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms and refine application techniques to fully harness the potential role of melatonin in cereal crop production systems.
Cyanogenic glucosides are specialized metabolites produced by over 3000 species of higher plants from more than 130 families. The deployment of cyanogenic glucosides is influenced by biotic and abiotic factors in addition to being developmentally regulated, consistent with their roles in plant defense and stress mitigation. Despite their ubiquity, very little is known regarding the molecular mechanisms that regulate their biosynthesis. The biosynthetic pathway of dhurrin, the cyanogenic glucoside found in the important cereal crop sorghum (
Elucidating the relationship between non-coding regulatory element sequences and gene expression is crucial for understanding gene regulation and genetic variation. We explored this link with the training of interpretable deep learning models predicting gene expression profiles from gene flanking regions of the plant species Arabidopsis thaliana, Solanum lycopersicum, Sorghum bicolor, and Zea mays. With over 80% accuracy, our models enabled predictive feature selection, highlighting e.g. the significant role of UTR regions in determining gene expression levels. The models demonstrated remarkable cross-species performance, effectively identifying both conserved and species-specific regulatory sequence features and their predictive power for gene expression. We illustrated the application of our approach by revealing causal links between genetic variation and gene expression changes across fourteen tomato genomes. Lastly, our models efficiently predicted genotype-specific expression of key functional gene groups, exemplified by underscoring known phenotypic and metabolic differences between Solanum lycopersicum and its wild, drought-resistant relative, Solanum pennellii.
Sorghum plant color is the leaf sheath/leaf color and is associated with seed color, tannin and phenol content, head blight disease incidence, and phytoalexin production. In this study, we evaluated plant color of the sorghum mini core collection by scoring leaf sheath/leaf color at maturity as tan, red, or purple across three testing environments and performed genome-wide association mapping (GWAS) with 6,094,317 SNPs markers. Eight loci, one each on chromosomes 1, 2, 4, and 6 and two on chromosomes 5 and 9, were mapped. All loci contained one to three candidate genes. In
The gene expression landscape across different tissues and developmental stages reflects their biological functions and evolutionary patterns. Integrative and comprehensive analyses of all transcriptomic data in an organism are instrumental to obtaining a comprehensive picture of gene expression landscape. Such studies are still very limited in sorghum, which limits the discovery of the genetic basis underlying complex agricultural traits in sorghum. We characterized the genome-wide expression landscape for sorghum using 873 RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) datasets representing 19 tissues. Our integrative analysis of these RNA-seq data provides the most comprehensive transcriptomic atlas for sorghum, which will be valuable for the sorghum research community for functional characterizations of sorghum genes. Based on the transcriptome atlas, we identified 595 housekeeping genes (HKGs) and 2080 tissue-specific expression genes (TEGs) for the 19 tissues. We identified different gene features between HKGs and TEGs, and we found that HKGs have experienced stronger selective constraints than TEGs. Furthermore, we built a transcriptome-wide co-expression network (TW-CEN) comprising 35 modules with each module enriched in specific Gene Ontology terms. High-connectivity genes in TW-CEN tend to express at high levels while undergoing intensive selective pressure. We also built global and seed-preferential co-expression networks of starch synthesis pathways, which indicated that photosynthesis and microtubule-based movement play important roles in starch synthesis. The global transcriptome atlas of sorghum generated by this study provides an important functional genomics resource for trait discovery and insight into starch synthesis regulation in sorghum.
Crop growth and yield are affected by salinity, which causes oxidative damage to plant cells. Plants respond to salinity by maintaining cellular osmotic balance, regulating ion transport, and enhancing the expression of stress-responsive genes, thereby inducing tolerance. As a byproduct of heme oxygenase (HO)-mediated degradation of heme, carbon monoxide (CO) regulates plant responses to salinity. This study investigated a CO-mediated salt stress tolerance mechanism in sorghum seedlings during germination. Sorghum seeds were germinated in the presence of 250 mM NaCl only, or in combination with a CO donor (1 and 1.5 μM hematin), HO inhibitor (5 and 10 μM zinc protoporphyrin IX; ZnPPIX), and hemoglobin (0.1 g/L Hb). Salt stress decreased the germination index (47.73%) and root length (74.31%), while hydrogen peroxide (H
SbYS1 and its upstream transcription factor SbWRKY72 were involved in Cd tolerance and accumulation and are valuable for developing sweet sorghum germplasm with high-Cd tolerance or accumulation ability through genetic manipulation. Cadmium (Cd) is highly toxic and can severely affect human health. Sweet sorghum, as an energy crop, shows great potential in extracting cadmium from Cd-contaminated soils. However, its molecular mechanisms of Cd-tolerance and -accumulation remain largely unknown. Here, we isolated a YSL family gene SbYS1 from the sweet sorghum genotype with high Cd accumulation ability and the expression of SbYS1 in roots was induced by cadmium. GUS staining experiment exhibited that SbYS1 was expressed in the epidermis and parenchyma tissues of roots. Further subcellular localization analysis suggested that SbYS1 was localized in the endoplasmic reticulum and plasma membrane. Yeast transformed with SbYS1 exhibited a sensitive phenotype compared to the control when exposed to Cd-NA (chelates of cadmium and nicotianamine), indicating that SbYS1 may absorb cadmium in the form of Cd-NA. Arabidopsis overexpressing SbYS1 had a longer root length and accumulated less Cd in roots and shoots. SbWRKY72 bound to the promoter of SbYS1 and negatively regulated the expression of SbYS1. Transgenic Arabidopsis of SbWRKY72 showed higher sensitivity to cadmium and increased cadmium accumulation in roots. Our results provide references for improving the phytoremediation efficiency of sweet sorghum by genetic manipulation in the future.
The article highlights omics-based interventions in sorghum to combat food and nutritional scarcity in the future. Sorghum with its unique ability to thrive in adverse conditions, has become a tremendous highly nutritive, and multipurpose cereal crop. It is resistant to various types of climatic stressors which will pave its way to a future food crop. Multi-omics refers to the comprehensive study of an organism at multiple molecular levels, including genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics. Genomic studies have provided insights into the genetic diversity of sorghum and led to the development of genetically improved sorghum. Transcriptomics involves analysing the gene expression patterns in sorghum under various conditions. This knowledge is vital for developing crop varieties with enhanced stress tolerance. Proteomics enables the identification and quantification of the proteins present in sorghum. This approach helps in understanding the functional roles of specific proteins in response to stress and provides insights into metabolic pathways that contribute to resilience and grain production. Metabolomics studies the small molecules, or metabolites, produced by sorghum, provides information about the metabolic pathways that are activated or modified in response to environmental stress. This knowledge can be used to engineer sorghum varieties with improved metabolic efficiency, ultimately leading to better crop yields. In this review, we have focused on various multi-omics approaches, gene expression analysis, and different pathways for the improvement of Sorghum. Applying omics approaches to sorghum research allows for a holistic understanding of its genome function. This knowledge is invaluable for addressing challenges such as climate change, resource limitations, and the need for sustainable agriculture.
Genetic diversity is critical to crop breeding and improvement, and dissection of the genomic variation underlying agronomic traits can both assist breeding and give insight into basic biological mechanisms. Although recent genome analyses in plants reveal many structural variants (SVs), most current studies of crop genetic variation are dominated by single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The extent of the impact of SVs on global trait variation, as well as their utility in genome-wide selection, is not yet understood. In this study, we built an SV data set based on whole-genome resequencing of diverse sorghum lines (n = 363), validated the correlation of photoperiod sensitivity and variety type, and identified SV hotspots underlying the divergent evolution of cellulosic and sweet sorghum. In addition, we showed the complementary contribution of SVs for heritability of traits related to sorghum adaptation. Importantly, inclusion of SV polymorphisms in association studies revealed genotype-phenotype associations not observed with SNPs alone. Three-way genome-wide association studies (GWAS) based on whole-genome SNP, SV, and integrated SNP + SV data sets showed substantial associations between SVs and sorghum traits. The addition of SVs to GWAS substantially increased heritability estimates for some traits, indicating their important contribution to functional allelic variation at the genome level. Our discovery of the widespread impacts of SVs on heritable gene expression variation could render a plausible mechanism for their disproportionate impact on phenotypic variation. This study expands our knowledge of SVs and emphasizes the extensive impacts of SVs on sorghum.
Remorins (REMs) are plant-specific membrane-associated proteins that play important roles in plant-pathogen interactions and environmental adaptations. Group I REMs are extensively involved in virus infection. However, little is known about the Comparative genomics were employed to analyze the In this study, 65 These results reveal the origin, distribution and evolution of the
Knowing how chromosome recombination works is essential for plant breeding. It enables the design of crosses between different varieties to combine desirable traits and create new ones. This is because the meiotic crossovers between homologous chromatids are not purely random, and various strategies have been developed to describe and predict such exchange events. Recent studies have used methylation data to predict chromosomal recombination in rice using machine learning models. This approach proved successful due to the presence of a positive correlation between the CHH context cytosine methylation and recombination rates in rice chromosomes. This paper assesses the question if methylation can be used to predict recombination in four plant species: Arabidopsis, maize, sorghum, and tomato. The results indicate a positive association between CHH context methylation and recombination rates in certain plant species, with varying degrees of strength in their relationships. The CG and CHG methylation contexts show negative correlation with recombination. Methylation data was key effectively in predicting recombination in sorghum and tomato, with a mean determination coefficient of 0.65 ± 0.11 and 0.76 ± 0.05, respectively. In addition, the mean correlation values between predicted and experimental recombination rates were 0.83 ± 0.06 for sorghum and 0.90 ± 0.05 for tomato, confirming the significance of methylomes in both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous species. The predictions for Arabidopsis and maize were not as accurate, likely due to the comparatively weaker relationships between methylation contexts and recombination, in contrast to sorghum and tomato, where stronger associations were observed. To enhance the accuracy of predictions, further evaluations using data sets closely related to each other might prove beneficial. In general, this methylome-based method holds great potential as a reliable strategy for predicting recombination rates in various plant species, offering valuable insights to breeders in their quest to develop novel and improved varieties.
Molecular genetic understanding of flowering time regulation is crucial for sorghum development. GRAIN NUMBER, PLANT HEIGHT AND HEADING DATE 7 (SbGhd7) is one of the six classical loci conferring photoperiod sensitivity of sorghum flowering. However, its functions remain poorly studied. The molecular functions of SbGhd7 were characterized. The gene regulatory network controlled by SbGhd7 was constructed and validated. The biological roles of SbGhd7 and its major targets were studied. SbGhd7 overexpression (OE) completely prevented sorghum flowering. Additionally, we show that SbGhd7 is a major negative regulator of flowering, binding to the promoter motif TGAATG(A/T)(A/T/C) and repressing transcription of the major florigen FLOWERING LOCUS T 10 (SbFT10) and floral activators EARLY HEADING DATE (SbEhd1), FLAVIN-BINDING, KELCH REPEAT, F-BOX1 (SbFKF1) and EARLY FLOWERING 3 (SbELF3). Reinforcing the direct effect of SbGhd7, SbEhd1 OE activated the promoters of three functional florigens (SbFT1, SbFT8 and SbFT10), dramatically accelerating flowering. Our studies demonstrate that SbGhd7 is a major repressor of sorghum flowering by directly and indirectly targeting genes for flowering activation. The mechanism appears ancient. Our study extends the current model of floral transition regulation in sorghum and provides a framework for a comprehensive understanding of sorghum photoperiod response.
SbMYC2 functions as a key regulator under JA signaling in enhancing drought tolerance of sorghum through direct activating SbGR1. Drought stress is one of the major threats to crop yield. In response to drought stress, functions of basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors (TFs) have been reported in Arabidopsis and rice, but little is known for sorghum. Here, we characterized the function of SbMYC2, a bHLH TF in sorghum, and found that SbMYC2 responded most significantly to PEG-simulated drought stress and JA treatments. Overexpression of SbMYC2 significantly enhanced drought tolerance in Arabidopsis, rice and sorghum. In addition, it reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and increased chlorophyll content in sorghum leaves. While silencing SbMYC2 by virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) resulted in compromised drought tolerance of sorghum seedlings. Moreover, SbMYC2 can directly activate the expression of GLUTATHIONE-DISULFIDE REDUCTASE gene SbGR1. SbGR1 silencing led to significantly weakened drought tolerance of sorghum, and higher ROS accumulation and lower chlorophyll content in sorghum leaves were detected. In addition, SbMYC2 can interact with SbJAZs, suppressors of JA signaling, and thus can mediate JA signaling to activate SbGR1, thereby regulating sorghum's tolerance to drought stress. Overall, our findings demonstrate that bHLH TF SbMYC2 plays an important role in sorghum's response to drought stress, thus providing one theoretical basis for genetic enhancement of sorghum and even rice.
E3 ubiquitin ligases are central modifiers of plant signaling pathways that regulate protein function, localization, degradation, and other biological processes by linking ubiquitin to target proteins. E3 ubiquitin ligases include proteins with the U-box domain. However, there has been no report about the foxtail millet (
ABA Insensitive 5 (ABI5) is a basic leucine zipper transcription factor that crucially influences plant growth, development, and stress response. However, there is minimal research on the ABI5 family in foxtail millet. In this study, 16 ABI5 genes were identified in foxtail millet, and their sequence composition, gene structures, cis-acting elements, chromosome positions, and gene replication events were analyzed. To more thoroughly evaluate the developmental mechanisms of the SiABI5 family during evolution, we selected three dicotyledons (S. lycopersicum, A. thaliana, F. tataricum) and three (Z. mays, O. sativa, S. bicolor) specific representative monocotyledons associated with foxtail millet for comparative homology mapping. The results showed that foxtail millet ABI5 genes had the best homology with maize. A promoter sequence analysis showed that the SiABI5s contain numerous cis-acting elements related to hormone and stress responses, indicating that the regulation of SiABI5 expression was complex. The expression responses of 16 genes in different tissues, seed germination, and ear development were analyzed. A total of six representative genes were targeted from five subfamilies to characterize their gene expression responses to four different abiotic stresses. Overexpression of SiABI5.12 confers tolerance to osmotic stress in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana, which demonstrated the function of SiABI5 responded to abiotic stress. In summary, our research results comprehensively characterized the SiABI5 family and can provide a valuable reference for demonstrating the role of SiABI5s in regulating abiotic stress responses in foxtail millet.
Bioenergy sorghum is a low-input, drought-resilient, deep-rooting annual crop that has high biomass yield potential enabling the sustainable production of biofuels, biopower, and bioproducts. Bioenergy sorghum's 4-5 m stems account for ~80% of the harvested biomass. Stems accumulate high levels of sucrose that could be used to synthesize bioethanol and useful biopolymers if information about cell-type gene expression and regulation in stems was available to enable engineering. To obtain this information, laser capture microdissection was used to isolate and collect transcriptome profiles from five major cell types that are present in stems of the sweet sorghum Wray. Transcriptome analysis identified genes with cell-type-specific and cell-preferred expression patterns that reflect the distinct metabolic, transport, and regulatory functions of each cell type. Analysis of cell-type-specific gene regulatory networks (GRNs) revealed that unique transcription factor families contribute to distinct regulatory landscapes, where regulation is organized through various modes and identifiable network motifs. Cell-specific transcriptome data was combined with known secondary cell wall (SCW) networks to identify the GRNs that differentially activate SCW formation in vascular sclerenchyma and epidermal cells. The spatial transcriptomic dataset provides a valuable source of information about the function of different sorghum cell types and GRNs that will enable the engineering of bioenergy sorghum stems, and an interactive web application developed during this project will allow easy access and exploration of the data (https://mc-lab.shinyapps.io/lcm-dataset/).
Quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) can screen applicable reference genes of species, and reference genes can be used to reduce experimental errors. Sudan grass (
Sorghum, a short-day tropical plant, has been adapted for temperate grain production, in particular through the selection of variants at the MATURITY loci (Ma1-Ma6) that reduce photoperiod sensitivity. Ma3 encodes phytochrome B (phyB), a red/far-red photochromic biliprotein photoreceptor. The multi-domain gene product, comprising 1178 amino acids, autocatalytically binds the phytochromobilin chromophore to form the photoactive holophytochrome (Sb.phyB). This study describes the development of an efficient heterologous overproduction system which allows the production of large quantities of various holoprotein constructs, along with purification and crystallization procedures. Crystals of the Pr (red-light-absorbing) forms of NPGP, PGP and PG (residues 1-655, 114-655 and 114-458, respectively), each C-terminally tagged with His
The small YABBY plant-specific transcription factor has a prominent role in regulating plant growth progress and responding to abiotic stress. Here, a total of 16 PvYABBYs from switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) were identified and classified into four distinct subgroups. Proteins within the same subgroup exhibited similar conserved motifs and gene structures. Synteny analyses indicated that segmental duplication contributed to the expansion of the YABBY gene family in switchgrass and that complex duplication events occurred in rice, maize, soybean, and sorghum. Promoter regions of PvYABBY genes contained numerous cis-elements related to stress responsiveness and plant hormones. Expression profile analysis indicated higher expression levels of many PvYABBY genes during inflorescence development and seed maturation, with lower expression levels during root growth. Real-time quantitative PCR analysis demonstrated the sensitivity of multiple YABBY genes to PEG, NaCl, ABA, and GA treatments. The overexpression of PvYABBY14 in Arabidopsis resulted in increased root length after treatment with GA and ABA compared to wild-type plants. Taken together, our study provides the first genome-wide overview of the YABBY transcription factor family, laying the groundwork for understanding the molecular basis and regulatory mechanisms of PvYABBY14 in response to ABA and GA responses in switchgrass.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) is the fifth most important grain produced in the world. Interest for cultivating sorghum is increasing all over the world in the context of climate change, due to its low input and water requirements. Like other cultivated cereals, sorghum has significant nutritional value thanks to its protein, carbohydrate and dietary fiber content, these latter mainly consisting of cell wall polysaccharides. This work describes for the first time a transcriptomic analysis dedicated to identify the genes involved in the biosynthesis and remodelling of cell walls both in the endosperm and outer layers of sorghum grain during its development. Further analysis of these transcriptomic data will improve our understanding of cell wall assembly, which is a key component of grain quality. This research delineates the steps of our analysis, starting with the cultivation conditions and the grain harvest at different stages of development, followed by the laser microdissection applied to separate the endosperm from the outer layers. It also describes the procedures implemented to generate RNA libraries and to obtain a normalized and filtered table of transcript counts, and finally determine the number of putative cell wall-related genes already listed in literature.
Iron (Fe) deficiency is a common mineral stress in plants, including sorghum. Although the soil fungus Trichoderma harzianum has been shown to mitigate Fe deficiency in some circumstances, neither the range nor mechanism(s) of this process are well understood. In this study, high pH-induced Fe deficiency in sorghum cultivated in pots with natural field soil exhibited a significant decrease in biomass, photosynthetic rate, transpiration rate, stomatal conductance, water use efficiency, and Fe-uptake in both the root and shoot. However, the establishment of T. harzianum colonization in roots of Fe-deprived sorghum showed significant improvements in morpho-physiological traits, Fe levels, and redox status. Molecular detection of the fungal ThAOX1 (L-aminoacid oxidase) gene showed the highest colonization of T. harzianum in the root tips of Fe-deficient sorghum, a location thus targeted for further analysis. Expression studies by RNA-seq and qPCR in sorghum root tips revealed a significant upregulation of several genes associated with Fe uptake (SbTOM2), auxin synthesis (SbSAURX15), nicotianamine synthase 3 (SbNAS3), and a phytosiderophore transporter (SbYS1). Also induced was the siderophore synthesis gene (ThSIT1) in T. harzianum, a result supported by biochemical evidence for elevated siderophore and IAA (indole acetic acid) levels in roots. Given the high affinity of fungal siderophore to chelate insoluble Fe
RNA-Sequencing is widely used to investigate changes in gene expression at the transcription level in plants. Most plant RNA-Seq analysis pipelines base the normalization approaches on the assumption that total transcript levels do not vary between samples. However, this assumption has not been demonstrated. In fact, many common experimental treatments and genetic alterations affect transcription efficiency or RNA stability, resulting in unequal transcript abundance. The addition of synthetic RNA controls is a simple correction that controls for variation in total mRNA levels. However, adding spike-ins appropriately is challenging with complex plant tissue, and carefully considering how they are added is essential to their successful use. We demonstrate that adding external RNA spike-ins as a normalization control produces differences in RNA-Seq analysis compared to traditional normalization methods, even between two times of day in untreated plants. We illustrate the use of RNA spike-ins with 3' RNA-Seq and present a normalization pipeline that accounts for differences in total transcriptional levels. We evaluate the effect of normalization methods on identifying differentially expressed genes in the context of identifying the effect of the time of day on gene expression and response to chilling stress in sorghum.
The nucleotide binding site leucine rich repeat (NBLRR) genes significantly regulate defences against phytopathogens in plants. The genome-wide identification and analysis of NBLRR genes have been performed in several species. However, the detailed evolution, structure, expression of NBLRRs and functional response to Magnaporthe grisea are unknown in finger millet (Eleusine coracana (L.) Gaertn.). The genome-wide scanning of the finger millet genome resulted in 116 NBLRR (EcNBLRRs1-116) encompassing 64 CC-NB-LRR, 47 NB-LRR and 5 CC The identification and expression analysis of EcNBLRRs showed the role of EcNBLRR genes in assigning blast resistance in finger millet. These results pave the foundation for in-depth and targeted functional analysis of EcNBLRRs through genome editing and transgenic approaches.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) is an important cereal crop grown worldwide because of its multipurpose uses such as food, forage, and bioenergy feedstock and its wide range of adaption even in marginal environments. Greenbug can cause severe damage to sorghum plants and yield loss. Plant NAC transcription factors (TFs) have been reported to have diverse functions in plant development and plant defense but has not been studied in sorghum yet. In this study, a comprehensive analysis of the sorghum NAC (SbNAC) gene family was conducted through genome-wide analysis. A total of 112 NAC genes has been identified in the sorghum genome. These SbNAC genes are phylogenetically clustered into 15 distinct subfamilies and unevenly distribute in clusters at the telomeric ends of each chromosome. Twelve pairs of SbNAC genes are possibly involved in the segmental duplication among nine chromosomes except chromosome 10. Structure analysis showed the diverse structures with a highly variable number of exons in the SbNAC genes. Furthermore, most of the SbNAC genes showed specific temporal and spatial expression patterns according to the results of RNA-seq analysis, suggesting their diverse functions during sorghum growth and development. We have also identified nine greenbug-inducible SbNAC genes by comparing the expression profiles between two sorghum genotypes (susceptible BTx623 and resistant PI607900) in response to greenbug infestation. Our systematic analysis of the NAC gene expression profiles provides both a preliminary survey into their roles in plant defense against insect pests and a useful reference for in-depth characterization of the SbNAC genes and the regulatory network that contributes genetic resistance to aphids.
Cis-regulatory elements (CREs) are critical in regulating gene expression, and yet understanding of CRE evolution remains challenging. Here, we constructed a comprehensive single-cell atlas of chromatin accessibility in Oryza sativa, integrating data from 103,911 nuclei representing 126 discrete cell states across nine distinct organs. We used comparative genomics to compare cell-type resolved chromatin accessibility between O. sativa and 57,552 nuclei from four additional grass species (Zea mays, Sorghum bicolor, Panicum miliaceum, and Urochloa fusca). Accessible chromatin regions (ACRs) had different levels of conservation depending on the degree of cell-type specificity. We found a complex relationship between ACRs with conserved noncoding sequences, cell-type specificity, conservation, and tissue-specific switching. Additionally, we found that epidermal ACRs were less conserved compared to other cell types, potentially indicating that more rapid regulatory evolution has occurred in the L1-derived epidermal layer of these species. Finally, we identified and characterized a conserved subset of ACRs that overlapped the repressive histone modification H3K27me3, implicating them as potentially silencer-like CREs maintained by evolution. Collectively, this comparative genomics approach highlights the dynamics of plant cell-type-specific CRE evolution.
Microplastics can become potential transport carriers of other environmental pollutants (such as heavy metals), so the combined pollution of microplastics and heavy metals has attracted increasing attention from researchers. To explore the mechanism of plant growth-promoting bacteria VY-1 alleviating the combined pollution stress of heavy metals and microplastics in sorghum, the effects of inoculation on biomass and accumulation of heavy metals in sorghum were analyzed using a hydroponics experiment, and the effects of inoculation on gene expression in sorghum were analyzed via transcriptomics. The results showed that the combined pollution of polyethylene (PE) and cadmium (Cd) decreased the dry weight of above-ground and underground parts by 17.04% and 10.36%, respectively, compared with that under the single Cd pollution, which showed that the combined toxicity effect of the combined pollution on plant growth was enhanced. The inoculation of plant growth-promoting bacteria VY-1 could alleviate the toxicity of Cd-PE combined pollution and increase the length of aboveground and underground parts by 33.83% and 73.21% and the dry weight by 56.64% and 33.44%, respectively. Transcriptome sequencing showed that 904 genes were up-regulated after inoculation with VY-1. Inoculation with growth-promoting bacteria VY-1 could up-regulate the expression of several genes in the auxin, abscisic acid, flavonoid synthesis, and lignin biosynthesis pathways, which promoted the response ability of sorghum under Cd-PE combined pollution stress and improved its resistance. The above results indicated that plant growth-promoting bacteria could alleviate the stress of heavy metal and microplastic combined pollution by regulating plant gene expression, which provided a reference for plant-microbial joint remediation of heavy metal and microplastic combined pollution.
Pre-harvest sprouting of cereals greatly reduces yield and quality of the grains. Abscisic acid (ABA) is an essential phytohormone for the induction and maintenance of seed dormancy. In this study, the ABA responsive promoter-driven ABA biosynthesis gene system was introduced to common wheat (
The Cd tolerance protein SaCTP3, which responds to Cd stress, was identified in Sedum alfredii; however, how to improve the efficiency of phytoremediation of Cd-contaminated soil using the CTP gene remains unknown. In this study, the phytoremediation potential of SaCTP3 of Sedum alfredii was identified. In the yeast Cd-sensitive strain Δycf1 overexpressing SaCTP3, the accumulation of Cd was higher than that in the Δycf1 strain overexpressing an empty vector. Transgenic sorghum plants overexpression SaCTP3 were further constructed to verify the function of SaCTP3. Compared to wild-type plants, the SaCTP3-overexpressing lines exhibited higher Cd accumulation under 500 μM Cd conditions. The average Cd content inSaCTP3-overexpressing plants is more than four times higher than that of WT plants. This was accompanied by an enhanced ability to scavenge ROS, as evidenced by the significantly increased activities of peroxidase, catalase, and superoxide dismutase in response to Cd stress. Pot experiments further demonstrated that SaCTP3 overexpression resulted in improved soil Cd scavenging and photosynthetic abilities. After 20 days of growth, the average Cd content in the soil planted with SaCTP3-overexpressing sorghum decreased by 19.4%, while the residual Cd content in the soil planted with wild-type plants was only reduced by 5.4%. This study elucidated the role of SaCTP3 from S.alfredii, highlighting its potential utility in genetically modifying sorghum for the effective phytoremediation of Cd.
The present work studied the impact of different levels of PVC-microplastics (PVC-MPs), namely 0 (no PVC-MPs), 2, and 4 mg L
The objective of this data set was to identify transcriptional networks that control elongation of seedling leaf sheaths in the C4 grass Sorghum bicolor. One motivation was that leaf sheaths are a primary constituent of stems in grass seedlings; therefore, genes that control growth of this organ are important contributors to successful transition from the seedling stage to the mature plant stage and, ultimately, crop success. Since diurnal rhythms contribute to regulation of signaling networks responsible for growth, a time course representing the late afternoon and early evening was anticipated to pinpoint important control genes for stem growth. Ultimately, the expected outcome was discovery of transcript networks that integrate internal and external signals to fine tune leaf sheath growth and, consequently, plant height. The data set is RNAseq profiling of upper leaf sheaths collected from wild type Sorghum bicolor (BTx623 line) plants at four-hour intervals from 12.5 h after dawn to 20 h after dawn. Global transcript levels in leaves were determined by deep sequencing of mRNA from four individual seedlings at each time point. This data set contains sequences representing the spectrum of mRNAs from individual genes. This data set enables detection of significant changes in gene-level expression caused by the progression of the day from late afternoon to the middle of the night. This data set is useful to identify gene expression networks regulating growth in the leaf sheath, an organ that is a major contributor to the sorghum seedling stem and defines seedling height.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are typically non-coding RNAs of 18-26 nucleotides (nts) that are produced endogenously and regulated post-transcriptionally through degradation or translational repression. Since miRNAs are evolutionarily conserved, their preservation is essential for important regulatory functions in plant development, growth, and responses to environmental stress. Sorghum bicolor (sbi) is a valuable food and fodder crop which is grown worldwide. A range of sbi miRNAs were identified so far as being connected to plant development and stress responses. Herein, we employed a variety of bioinformatics tools for miRNA profiling in sbi and a PCR-based platform for the validation of these miRNAs. In total, 74 new conserved sbi miRNAs from 52 miRNA families have been predicted. Using the psRNA Target method, 10613 different protein targets of these predicted miRNAs have been attained. These targets include 54 GO-terms which have substantial targets in the biological, molecular, and cellular processes. We particularly found that the sbi-miR1861c and sbi-miR5050 are involved to regulate sulphur compound biosynthetic process, while the significant spliceosomal complex is regulated by sbi-miR815b and sbi-miR7768b. Also, we report that the pre-ribosome, electron transport chain, cell communication, cellular respiration, protein localization, and photosynthesis are controlled by sbi-miR2907b, sbi-miR530, sbi-miR7749, sbi-miR1858a, sbi-mi7729a, and sbi-miR417, respectively. The identification and validation of these novel sbi miRNAs shall contribute a lot in improving the crop yield and ensure sustainable agriculture.
A fundamental developmental switch for plants is transition from vegetative to floral growth, which integrates external and internal signals. INDETERMINATE1 (Id1) family proteins are zinc finger transcription factors that activate flowering in grasses regardless of photoperiod. Mutations in maize Mapping of two recessive late flowering mutants from a pedigreed sorghum EMS mutant library identified two distinct mutations in the These results demonstrate a conserved role for
Sorghum anthracnose caused by the fungus Colletotrichum sublineola (Cs) is a damaging disease of the crop. Here, we describe the identification of ANTHRACNOSE RESISTANCE GENES (ARG4 and ARG5) encoding canonical nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat (NLR) receptors. ARG4 and ARG5 are dominant resistance genes identified in the sorghum lines SAP135 and P9830, respectively, that show broad-spectrum resistance to Cs. Independent genetic studies using populations generated by crossing SAP135 and P9830 with TAM428, fine mapping using molecular markers, comparative genomics and gene expression studies determined that ARG4 and ARG5 are resistance genes against Cs strains. Interestingly, ARG4 and ARG5 are both located within clusters of duplicate NLR genes at linked loci separated by ~1 Mb genomic region. SAP135 and P9830 each carry only one of the ARG genes while having the recessive allele at the second locus. Only two copies of the ARG5 candidate genes were present in the resistant P9830 line while five non-functional copies were identified in the susceptible line. The resistant parents and their recombinant inbred lines carrying either ARG4 or ARG5 are resistant to strains Csgl1 and Csgrg suggesting that these genes have overlapping specificities. The role of ARG4 and ARG5 in resistance was validated through sorghum lines carrying independent recessive alleles that show increased susceptibility. ARG4 and ARG5 are located within complex loci displaying interesting haplotype structures and copy number variation that may have resulted from duplication. Overall, the identification of anthracnose resistance genes with unique haplotype stucture provides a foundation for genetic studies and resistance breeding.
Fungal pathogens typically use secreted effector proteins to suppress host immune activators to facilitate invasion. However, there is rarely evidence supporting the idea that fungal secretory proteins contribute to pathogenesis by transactivating host genes that suppress defense. We previously found that pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae induces rice Bsr-d1 to facilitate infection and hypothesized that a fungal effector mediates this induction. Here, we report that MoSPAB1 secreted by M. oryzae directly binds to the Bsr-d1 promoter to induce its expression, facilitating pathogenesis. Amino acids 103-123 of MoSPAB1 are required for its binding to the Bsr-d1 promoter. Both MoSPAB1 and rice MYBS1 compete for binding to the Bsr-d1 promoter to regulate Bsr-d1 expression. Furthermore, MoSPAB1 homologues are highly conserved among fungi. In particular, Colletotrichum fructicola CfSPAB1 and Colletotrichum sublineola CsSPAB1 activate kiwifruit AcBsr-d1 and sorghum SbBsr-d1 respectively, to facilitate pathogenesis. Taken together, our findings reveal a conserved module that may be widely utilized by fungi to enhance pathogenesis.
Drought stress adversely affects plant growth, often leading to total crop failure. Upon sensing soil water deficits, plants switch on biosynthesis of abscisic acid (ABA), a stress hormone for drought adaptation. Here, we used exogenous ABA application to dark-grown sorghum cell suspension cultures as an experimental system to understand how a drought-tolerant crop responds to ABA. We evaluated intracellular and secreted proteins using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification. While the abundance of only ~ 7% (46 proteins) intracellular proteins changed in response to ABA, ~32% (82 proteins) of secreted proteins identified in this study were ABA responsive. This shows that the extracellular matrix is disproportionately targeted and suggests it plays a vital role in sorghum adaptation to drought. Extracellular proteins responsive to ABA were predominantly defense/detoxification and cell wall-modifying enzymes. We confirmed that sorghum plants exposed to drought stress activate genes encoding the same proteins identified in the
The 26S proteasome is a molecular machine that catalyzes and degrades protein intracellularly with the help of its core complex called 20S proteasome. The 20S proteasomes degrade and cleave denatured, cytotoxic, damaged, and unwanted proteins via proteolysis and impart biotic and abiotic stress tolerance in model plants. This study identified 20 genes, namely, 10
The extensive use of herbicides has raised concerns about crop damage, necessitating the development of effective herbicide safeners. Fluxofenim has emerged as a promising herbicide safener; however, it's underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here, we screened two inbred lines 407B and HYZ to investigate the detoxication of fluxofenim in mitigating metolachlor damage in sorghum. Metolachlor inhibited seedling growth in both 407B and HYZ, while, fluxofenim could significantly restore the growth of 407B, but not effectively complement the growth of HYZ. Fluxofenim significantly increased the activities of glutathione-S-transferase (GST) to decrease metolachlor residue in 407B, but not in HYZ. This implys that fluxofenim may reduce metolachlor toxicity by regulating its metabolism. Furthermore, metolachlor suppressed AUX-related and JA-related genes expression, while up-regulated the expression of SA-related genes. Fluxofenim also restored the expression of AUX-related and JA-related genes inhibited by metolachlor and further increased expression of SA-related genes. Moreover, we noted a significant increase in the content of trans-zeatin O-glucoside (tZOG) and Gibberellin1 (GA1) after the fluxofenim treatment. In conclusion, fluxofenim may reduce the injury of herbicide by affecting herbicide metabolism and regulating hormone signaling pathway.
Soil salinization, an intractable problem, is becoming increasingly serious and threatening fragile natural ecosystems and even the security of human food supplies. Sorghum (
Plant respiratory burst oxidase homolog (Rboh) gene family produces reactive oxygen species (ROS), and it plays key roles in plant-microbe interaction. Most Rboh gene family-related studies mainly focused on dicotyledonous plants; however, little is known about the roles of Rboh genes in gramineae. A total of 106 Rboh genes were identified in seven gramineae species, including Zea mays, Sorghum bicolor, Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa, Setaria italica, Hordeum vulgare, and Triticum aestivum. The Rboh protein sequences showed high similarities, suggesting that they may have conserved functions across different species. Duplication mode analysis detected whole-genome/segmental duplication (WGD)/(SD) and dispersed in the seven species. Interestingly, two local duplication (LD, including tandem and proximal duplication) modes were found in Z. mays, S. italica and H. vulgare, while four LD were detected in T. aestivum, indicating that these genes may have similar functions. Collinearity analysis indicated that Rboh genes are at a stable evolution state in all the seven species. Besides, Rboh genes from Z. mays were closely related to those from S. bicolor, consistent with the current understanding of plant evolutionary history. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the genes in the subgroups I and II may participate in plant-AM fungus symbiosis. Cis-element analysis showed that different numbers of elements are related to fungal induction in the promoter region. Expression profiles of Rboh genes in Z. mays suggested that Rboh genes had distinct spatial expression patterns. By inoculation with AM fungi, our transcriptome analysis showed that the expression of Rboh genes varies upon AM fungal inoculation. In particularly, ZmRbohF was significantly upregulated after inoculation with AM fungi. pZmRbohF::GUS expression analyses indicated that ZmRbohF was induced by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in maize. By comparing WT and ZmRbohF mutant, we found ZmRbohF had limited impact on the establishment of maize-AM fungi symbiosis, but play critical roles in regulating the proper development of arbuscules. This study provides a comprehensive analysis of the evolution relationship of Rboh genes in seven gramineae species. Results showed that several Rboh genes regulate maize-AM fungal symbiosis process. This study provides valuable information for further studies of Rboh genes in gramineae.
The EPIDERMAL PATTERNING FACTOR (EPF) plays a crucial role in plant response to abiotic stress. While the EPF has been extensively studied in model plants such as
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major factor limiting crop yields in acid soils. Sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) is a high-efficient energy crop widely grown in tropical and subtropical regions of the world, where acid soil is common and Al toxicity is widespread. Here, we characterized a transcription factor SbHY5 in sweet sorghum, which mediated light to promote plant Al stress adaptation. The expression of SbHY5 was induced by Al stress and increasing light intensity. The overexpression of SbHY5 improved Al tolerance in transgenic plants, which was associated with increased citrate secretion and reduced Al content in roots. Meanwhile, SbHY5 was found to localize to the nucleus and displayed transcriptional activity. SbHY5 directly activated the expression of SbMATE, indicating that a HY5-MATE-dependent citrate secretion pathway is involved in Al tolerance in plants. SbSTOP1 was reported as a key transcription factor, regulating several Al tolerance genes. Here, inspiringly, we found that SbHY5 directly promoted the transcription of SbSTOP1, implying the existence of HY5-STOP1-Al tolerance genes-mediated regulatory pathways. Besides, SbHY5 positively regulated its own transcription. Our findings revealed a novel regulatory network in which a light signaling factor, SbHY5, confers Al tolerance in plants by modulating the expression of Al stress response genes.
The transgenic expression of rice triketone dioxygenase (TDO; also known as HIS1) can provide protection from triketone herbicides to susceptible dicot crops such as soybean. Triketones are phytotoxic inhibitors of plant hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenases (HPPD). The TDO gene codes for an iron/2-oxoglutarate-dependent oxidoreductase. We obtained an X-ray crystal structure of TDO using SeMet-SAD phasing to 3.16 Å resolution. The structure reveals that TDO possesses a fold like that of Arabidopsis thaliana 2-oxoglutarate‑iron-dependent oxygenase anthocyanidin synthase (ANS). Unlike ANS, this TDO structure lacks bound metals or cofactors, and we propose this is because the disordered flexible loop over the active site is sterically constrained from folding properly in the crystal lattice. A combination of mass spectrometry, nuclear magnetic resonance, and enzyme activity studies indicate that rice TDO oxidizes mesotrione in a series of steps; first producing 5-hydroxy-mesotrione and then oxy-mesotrione. Evidence suggests that 5-hydroxy-mesotrione is a much weaker inhibitor of HPPD than mesotrione, and oxy-mesotrione has virtually no inhibitory activity. Of the close homologues which have been tested, only corn and rice TDO have enzymatic activity and the ability to protect plants from mesotrione. Correlating sequence and structure has identified four amino acids necessary for TDO activity. Introducing these four amino acids imparts activity to a mesotrione-inactive TDO-like protein from sorghum, which may expand triketone herbicide resistance in new crop species.
Salt stress adversely affects plant growth and development. It is necessary to understand the underlying salt response mechanism to improve salt tolerance in plants. MYB transcription factors can regulate plant responses to salt stress. However, only a few studies have explored the role of MYB TFs in Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench. So we decided to make a systematic analysis and research on the sorghum MYB family. A total of 210 MYB genes in sorghum were identified in this study. Furthermore, 210 MYB genes were distributed across ten chromosomes, named SbMYB1-SbMYB210. To study the phylogeny of the identified TFs, 210 MYB genes were divided into six subfamilies. We further demonstrated that SbMYB genes have evolved under strong purifying selection. SbMYBAS1 (SbMYB119) was chosen as the study object, which the expression decreased under salt stress conditions. Further study of the SbMYBAS1 showed that SbMYBAS1 is located in the nucleus. Under salt stress conditions, Arabidopsis plants overexpressed SbMYBAS1 showed significantly lower dry/fresh weight and chlorophyll content but significantly higher membrane permeability, MDA content, and Na
Environmental pollution due to the improper use of the chemical fungicides represents a vital ecological problem, which affects human and animal health, as well as the microbial biodiversity and abundance in the soil. In this study, an endophytic fungus Aspergillus oryzae YRA3, isolated from the wild plant Atractylis carduus (Forssk.) C.Chr, was tested for its biocontrol activity against Rhizoctonia root rot of sorghum. The antagonistic potential of A. oryzae YRA3 was tested against Rhizoctonia solani in vitro. A full inhibition in the growth of R. solani was recorded indicating a strong antagonistic potential for this endophyte. To investigate the chemical composition of its metabolites, GC/MS analysis was used and thirty-two compounds in its culture filtrate were identified. Among these metabolites, some compounds with an antifungal background were detected including palmitic acid, 2-heptanone, and 2,3-butanediol. To these antifungal metabolites the antagonistic activity of A. oryzae YRA3 can be attributed. In the greenhouse experiment, treating of the infected sorghum plants with A. oryzae YRA3 significantly reduced severity of the Rhizoctonia root rot by 73.4%. An upregulation of the defensive genes (JERF3), (POD) and (CHI II) was recorded in sorghum roots when were inoculated with A. oryzae YRA3. In addition, an increment in the activity of peroxidase and polyphenol oxidase, as well as the total phenolic content in the sorghum roots was also recorded. Furthermore, the results obtained from the greenhouse experiment revealed a growth-promoting effect for inoculating the sorghum plants with A. oryzae YRA3. It can be concluded that A. oryzae YRA3 can be a probable biological agent to control this disease in sorghum. However, its evaluation under field conditions is highly needed in the future studies.
Bioenergy sorghum is a drought-tolerant high-biomass C4 grass targeted for production on annual cropland marginal for food crops due primarily to abiotic constraints. To better understand the overall contribution of stem wax to bioenergy sorghum's resilience, the current study characterized sorghum stem cuticular wax loads, composition, morphometrics, wax pathway gene expression and regulation using vegetative phase Wray, R07020, and TX08001 genotypes. Wax loads on sorghum stems (~103-215 µg/cm
Genomic imprinting refers to allele-specific expression of genes depending on parental origin, and it is regulated by epigenetic modifications. Intraspecific allelic variation for imprinting has been detected; however, the intraspecific genome-wide allelic epigenetic variation in maize and its correlation with imprinting variants remain unclear. Here, three reciprocal hybrids were generated by crossing Zea mays inbred lines CAU5, B73, and Mo17 in order to examine the intraspecific conservation of the imprinted genes in the kernel. The majority of imprinted genes exhibited intraspecific conservation, and these genes also exhibited interspecific conservation (rice, sorghum, and Arabidopsis) and were enriched in some specific pathways. By comparing intraspecific allelic DNA methylation in the endosperm, we found that nearly 15% of DNA methylation existed as allelic variants. The intraspecific whole-genome correlation between DNA methylation and imprinted genes indicated that DNA methylation variants play an important role in imprinting variants. Disruption of two conserved imprinted genes using CRISPR/Cas9 editing resulted in a smaller kernel phenotype. Our results shed light on the intraspecific correlation of DNA methylation variants and variation for imprinting in maize, and show that imprinted genes play an important role in kernel development.
We investigated the effects of graphene on the model herb Artemisia annua, which is renowned for producing artemisinin, a widely used pharmacological compound. Seedling growth and biomass were promoted when A. annua was cultivated with low concentrations of graphene, an effect which was attributed to a 1.4-fold increase in nitrogen uptake, a 15%-22% increase in chlorophyll fluorescence, and greater abundance of carbon cycling-related bacteria. Exposure to 10 or 20 mg/L graphene resulted in a ∼60% increase in H
Tef (Eragrostis tef) is a C We identified about 729 drought-responsive genes so far reported in six crop plants, including rice, wheat, maize, barley, sorghum, pearl millet, and the model plant Arabidopsis, and reported 20 genes having high-level of GO terms related to drought, and significantly enriched in several biological and molecular function categories. These genes were found to play diverse roles, including water and fluid transport, resistance to high salt, cold, and drought stress, abscisic acid (ABA) signaling, de novo DNA methylation, and transcriptional regulation in tef and other crops. Our analysis revealed substantial differences in the conserved domains of some tef genes from well-studied rice orthologs. We further analyzed the expression of sixteen tef orthologs using quantitative RT-PCR in response to PEG-induced osmotic stress. The findings showed differential regulation of some drought-responsive genes in shoots, roots, or both tissues. Hence, the genes identified in this study may be promising candidates for trait improvement in crops via transgenic or gene-editing technologies.
As important regulators of alternative splicing (AS) events, serine/arginine (SR)-rich proteins play indispensable roles in the growth and development of organisms. Until now, the study of SR genes has been lacking in plants. In the current study, we performed genome-wide analysis on the SR gene family in rice. A total of 24
Maize is often subjected to various environmental stresses. The strictosidine synthase-like (SSL) family is thought to catalyze the key step in the monoterpene alkaloids synthesis pathway in response to environmental stresses. However, the role of
Sorghum BRS 305 (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) is a cereal with high tannins and anthocyanins content and keep better the resistant starch when submitted to dry heat treatment. Our objective was to investigate the effects of BRS 305 dry heat treatment whole sorghum flour on satiety and antioxidant response in brain and adipose tissue of Wistar rats fed with a high fat high fructose diet (HFHF). Male Wistar rats were divided in two groups: control (n = 8) and HFHF (n = 16) for eight weeks. After, animals of HFHF group were divided: HFHF (n = 8) and HFHF + BRS 305 sorghum whole flour (n = 8), for 10 weeks. Sorghum consumption reduced gene expression of leptin, resistin, and endocannabinoid receptor 1 type (CB1) in adipose and brain tissues compared to HFHF group. In brain, sorghum consumption also promotes reduction in neuropeptide Y (NPY) gene expression. BRS305 sorghum consumption improved gene expression of sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) in adipose tissue, and in the brain increased heat shock protein 72 (HSP72), erythroid-derived nuclear factor 2 (NRF2), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activity compared to HFHF. In silicoanalysis showed interaction with PPARα, CB1, and leptin receptors. Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) concentrations in group HFHF + sorghum did not differ from HFHF group. Advanced glycation end products receptors (RAGEs) concentrations did not differ among experimental groups. Then, BRS 305 sorghum submitted to dry treatment was able to modulate gene expression of markers related to satiety and improve antioxidant capacity of rats fed with HFHF diet.
Nutrient-efficient root system architecture (RSA) is becoming an important breeding objective for generating crop varieties with improved nutrient and water acquisition efficiency. Genetic variants shaping soybean RSA is key in improving nutrient and water acquisition. Here, we report on the use of an improved 2-dimensional high-throughput root phenotyping platform that minimizes background noise by imaging pouch-grown root systems submerged in water. We also developed a background image cleaning Python pipeline that computationally removes images of small pieces of debris and filter paper fibers, which can be erroneously quantified as root tips. This platform was used to phenotype root traits in 286 soybean lines genotyped with 5.4 million single-nucleotide polymorphisms. There was a substantially higher correlation in manually counted number of root tips with computationally quantified root tips (95% correlation), when the background was cleaned of nonroot materials compared to root images without the background corrected (79%). Improvements in our RSA phenotyping pipeline significantly reduced overestimation of the root traits influenced by the number of root tips. Genome-wide association studies conducted on the root phenotypic data and quantitative gene expression analysis of candidate genes resulted in the identification of 3 putative positive regulators of root system depth, total root length and surface area, and root system volume and surface area of thicker roots (
In flowering plants, C4 photosynthesis is superior to C3 type in carbon fixation efficiency and adaptation to extreme environmental conditions, but the mechanisms behind the assembly of C4 machinery remain elusive. This study attempts to dissect the evolutionary divergence from C3 to C4 photosynthesis in five photosynthetic model plants from the grass family, using a combined comparative transcriptomics and deep learning technology. By examining and comparing gene expression levels in bundle sheath and mesophyll cells of five model plants, we identified 16 differentially expressed signature genes showing cell-specific expression patterns in C3 and C4 plants. Among them, two showed distinctively opposite cell-specific expression patterns in C3 vs. C4 plants (named as FOGs). The in silico physicochemical analysis of the two FOGs illustrated that C3 homologous proteins of LHCA6 had low and stable pI values of ~6, while the pI values of LHCA6 homologs increased drastically in C4 plants
Auxin response factor (ARF) is a critical regulator in the auxin signaling pathway, involved in a variety of plant biological processes. Here, gene members of 24
Hormones played a fundamental role in improvement of yield in cereal grasses. Natural variants affecting gibberellic acid (GA) and auxin pathways were used to breed semi-dwarf varieties of rice, wheat, and sorghum, during the "Green Revolution" in the 20th century. Since then, variants with altered GA and cytokinin homeostasis have been used to breed cereals with increased grain number. These yield improvements were enabled by hormonal regulation of intercalary and inflorescence meristems. Recent advances have highlighted additional pathways, beyond the traditional CLAVATA-WUSCHEL pathway, in the regulation of auxin and cytokinin in inflorescence meristems, and have expanded our understanding of the role of GA in intercalary meristems.
In the current genomic era, the search and deployment of new semi-dwarf alleles have continued to develop better plant types in all cereals. We characterized an agronomically optimal semi-dwarf mutation in Zea mays L. and a parallel polymorphism in Sorghum bicolor L. We cloned the maize brachytic1 (br1-Mu) allele by a modified PCR-based Sequence Amplified Insertion Flanking Fragment (SAIFF) approach. Histology and RNA-Seq elucidated the mechanism of semi-dwarfism. GWAS linked a sorghum plant height QTL with the Br1 homolog by resequencing a West African sorghum landraces panel. The semi-dwarf br1-Mu allele encodes an MYB transcription factor78 that positively regulates stalk cell elongation by interacting with the polar auxin pathway. Semi-dwarfism is due to differential splicing and low functional Br1 wild-type transcript expression. The sorghum ortholog, SbBr1, co-segregates with the major plant height QTL qHT7.1 and is alternatively spliced. The high frequency of the Sbbr1 allele in African landraces suggests that African smallholder farmers used the semi-dwarf allele to improve plant height in sorghum long before efforts to introduce Green Revolution-style varieties in the 1960s. Surprisingly, variants for differential splicing of Brachytic1 were found in both commercial maize and smallholder sorghum, suggesting parallel tuning of plant architecture across these systems.
Sorghum is one of the four major C4 crops that are considered to be tolerant to environmental extremes. Sorghum shows distinct growth responses to temperature stress depending on the sensitivity of the genetic background. About half of the transcripts in sorghum exhibit diurnal rhythmic expressions emphasizing significant coordination with the environment. However, an understanding of how molecular dynamics contribute to genotype-specific stress responses in the context of the time of day is not known. We examined whether temperature stress and the time of day impact the gene expression dynamics in thermo-sensitive and thermo-tolerant sorghum genotypes. We found that time of day is highly influencing the temperature stress responses, which can be explained by the rhythmic expression of most thermo-responsive genes. This effect is more pronounced in thermo-tolerant genotypes, suggesting a stronger regulation of gene expression by the time of day and/or by the circadian clock. Genotypic differences were mostly observed on average gene expression levels, which may be responsible for contrasting sensitivities to temperature stress in tolerant versus susceptible sorghum varieties. We also identified groups of genes altered by temperature stress in a time-of-day and genotype-specific manner. These include transcriptional regulators and several members of the Ca
Microplastics (MPs) can act as carriers for environmental pollutants; therefore, MPs combined with heavy metal pollution are attracting increasing attention from researchers. In this study, the potential of the plant growth-promoting bacterium Bacillus sp. SL-413 to mitigate the stress caused by exposure to both MPs and cadmium (Cd) in sorghum plants was investigated. The effects of inoculation on sorghum biomass were investigated using hydroponic experiments, and evaluation of Cd accumulation and enzyme activity changes and transcriptomics approaches were used to analyze its effect on sorghum gene expression. The results showed that combined polyethylene (PE) and Cd pollution reduced the length and the fresh and dry weights of sorghum plants and thus exerted a synergistic toxic effect. However, inoculation with the strains alleviated the stress caused by the combined pollution and significantly increased the biomass. Inoculation increased the dry weights of the aboveground and belowground parts by 11.5-44.6% and 14.9-38.4%, respectively. Plant physiological measurements indicated that inoculation reduced the reactive oxygen species (ROS) content of sorghum by 10.5-27.2% and thereby alleviated oxidative stress. Transcriptome sequencing showed that exposure to combined Cd+MP contamination induced downregulation of gene expression, particularly that of genes related to amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism, starch and sucrose metabolism, and plant hormone signal transduction, in sorghum. However, inoculation with Bacillus sp. SL-413 resulted in an increase in the proportion of upregulated genes involved in signal transduction, antioxidant defense, cell wall biology, and other metabolic pathways, which included the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, photosynthesis, flavonoid biosynthesis, and MAPK signaling pathways. The upregulation of these genes promoted the tolerance of sorghum under combined Cd+MP pollution stress and alleviated the stress induced by these conditions. This study provides the first demonstration that plant growth-promoting bacteria can alleviate the stress caused by combined pollution with MPs and Cd by regulating plant gene expression. These findings provide a reference for the combined plant-microbial remediation of MPs and Cd.
In plants, expansin genes are responsive to heavy metal exposure. To study the bioremediary potential of this important gene family, we discovered a root-expressed expansin gene in sorghum,
Reverse-transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) assay was developed for detection of groundnut bud necrosis virus (GBNV) causing potato stem necrosis disease. The isothermal temperatures, reaction periods and concentrations of reaction mixture were optimized where, the assay worked well at 65 °C for 50 min, 6 U of WarmStart Bst 2.0 DNA polymerase, 1.4 mM dNTPs and 2.0 mM MgSO
Along with global warming, resulting in crop production, exacerbating the global food crisis. Therefore, it is urgent to study the mechanism of plant heat resistance. However, crop resistance genes were lost due to long-term artificial domestication. By analyzing the potential heat tolerance genes and molecular mechanisms in other wild materials, more genetic resources can be provided for improving the heat tolerance of crops. Elephant grass (Pennisetum purpureum Schum.) has strong adaptability to heat stress and contains abundant heat-resistant gene resources. Through sequence structure analysis, a total of 36 RWP-RK members were identified in elephant grass. Functional analysis revealed their close association with heat stress. Four randomly selected RKDs (RKD1.1, RKD4.3, RKD6.6, and RKD8.1) were analyzed for expression, and the results showed upregulation under high temperature conditions, suggesting their active role in response to heat stress. The members of RWP-RK gene family (36 genes) in elephant grass were 2.4 times higher than that of related tropical crops, rice (15 genes) and sorghum (15 genes). The 36 RWPs of elephant grass contain 15 NLPs and 21 RKDs, and 73% of RWPs are related to WGD. Among them, combined with the DAP-seq results, it was found that RWP-RK gene family expansion could improve the heat adaptability of elephant grass by enhancing nitrogen use efficiency and peroxidase gene expression. RWP-RK gene family expansion in elephant grass is closely related to thermal adaptation evolution and speciation. The RKD subgroup showed a higher responsiveness than the NLP subgroup when exposed to high temperature stress. The promoter region of the RKD subgroup contains a significant number of MeJA and ABA responsive elements, which may contribute to their positive response to heat stress. These results provided a scientific basis for analyzing the heat adaptation mechanism of elephant grass and improving the heat tolerance of other crops.
Salicylic acid (SA) is a multi-functional endogenous phytohormone implicated in the growth, development, and metabolism of many plant species. This study evaluated the effects of different concentrations of SA (0, 25, 100, 200, and 500 mg/L) on the growth and cadmium (Cd) content of lettuce ( Our results showed that 100-200 mg/L SA significantly increased the plant height and biomass of lettuce under Cd stress. When SA concentration was 200 mg/L, the plant height and root length of lettuce increased by 19.42% and 22.77%, respectively, compared with Cd treatment alone. Moreover, 200 mg/L and 500mg/L SA concentrations could reduce peroxidase (POD) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities caused by Cd stress. When the concentration of exogenous SA was 500 mg/L, the POD and SOD activities of lettuce leaves decreased by 15.51% and 19.91%, respectively, compared with Cd treatment. A certain concentration of SA reduced the uptake of Cd by the lettuce root system and the transport of Cd from the lettuce root system to shoots by down-regulating the expression of In general, these results provide a reference for the mechanism by which SA reduces the Cd accumulation in vegetables and a theoretical basis for developing heavy metal blockers with SA components.
Heat shock protein 20 (HSP20) is a member of the heat stress-related protein family, which plays critical roles in plant growth, development, and response to abiotic stresses. Although many HSP20 genes have been associated with heat stress in numerous types of plants, little is known about the details of the HSP20 gene family in Coix. To investigate the mechanisms of the ClHSP20 response to heat and drought stresses, the ClHSP20 gene family in Coix was identified and characterized based on genome-wide analysis. A total of 32 putative ClHSP20 genes were identified and characterized in Coix. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that ClHSP20s were grouped into 11 subfamilies. The duplicated event analysis demonstrated that tandem duplication and segment duplication events played crucial roles in promoting the expansion of the ClHSP20 gene family. Synteny analysis showed that Coix shared the highest homology in 36 HSP20 gene pairs with wheat, followed by 22, 19, 15, and 15 homologous gene pairs with maize, sorghum, barley, and rice, respectively. The expression profile analysis showed that almost all ClHSP20 genes had different expression levels in at least one tissue. Furthermore, 22 of the 32 ClHSP20 genes responded to heat stress, with 11 ClHSP20 genes being significantly upregulated and 11 ClHSP20 genes being significantly downregulated. Furthermore, 13 of the 32 ClHSP20 genes responded to drought stress, with 6 ClHSP20 genes being significantly upregulated and 5 ClHSP20 genes being significantly downregulated. Thirty-two ClHSP20 genes were identified and characterized in the genome of Coix. Tandem and segmental duplication were identified as having caused the expansion of the ClHSP20 gene family. The expression patterns of the ClHSP20 genes suggested that they play a critical role in growth, development, and response to heat and drought stress. The current study provides a theoretical basis for further research on ClHSP20s and will facilitate the functional characterization of ClHSP20 genes.
The GATA family of transcription factors is zinc finger DNA binding proteins involved in a variety of biological processes, including plant growth and development and response to biotic/abiotic stresses, and thus play an essential role in plant response to environmental changes. However, the
Nitrate is the main form of inorganic nitrogen that crop absorbs, and nitrate transporter 2 (NRT2) is a high affinity transporter using nitrate as a specific substrate. When the available nitrate is limited, the high affinity transport systems are activated and play an important role in the process of nitrate absorption and transport. Most NRT2 cannot transport nitrates alone and require the assistance of a helper protein belonging to nitrate assimilation related family (NAR2) to complete the absorption or transport of nitrates. Crop nitrogen utilization efficiency is affected by environmental conditions, and there are differences between varieties, so it is of great significance to develop varieties with high nitrogen utilization efficiency.
The sugarcane aphid (SCA; Melanaphis sacchari) has emerged as a key pest on sorghum in the United States that feeds from the phloem tissue, drains nutrients, and inflicts physical damage to plants. Previously, it has been shown that SCA reproduction was low and high on sorghum SC265 and SC1345 plants, respectively, compared to RTx430, an elite sorghum male parental line (reference line). In this study, we focused on identifying the defense-related genes that confer resistance to SCA at early and late time points in sorghum plants with varied levels of SCA resistance. We used RNA-sequencing approach to identify the global transcriptomic responses to aphid infestation on RTx430, SC265, and SC1345 plants at early time points 6, 24, and 48 h post infestation (hpi) and after extended period of SCA feeding for 7 days. Aphid feeding on the SCA-resistant line upregulated the expression of 3827 and 2076 genes at early and late time points, respectively, which was relatively higher compared to RTx430 and SC1345 plants. Co-expression network analysis revealed that aphid infestation modulates sorghum defenses by regulating genes corresponding to phenylpropanoid metabolic pathways, secondary metabolic process, oxidoreductase activity, phytohormones, sugar metabolism and cell wall-related genes. There were 187 genes that were highly expressed during the early time of aphid infestation in the SCA-resistant line, including genes encoding leucine-rich repeat (LRR) proteins, ethylene response factors, cell wall-related, pathogenesis-related proteins, and disease resistance-responsive dirigent-like proteins. At 7 days post infestation (dpi), 173 genes had elevated expression levels in the SCA-resistant line and were involved in sucrose metabolism, callose formation, phospholipid metabolism, and proteinase inhibitors. In summary, our results indicate that the SCA-resistant line is better adapted to activate early defense signaling mechanisms in response to SCA infestation because of the rapid activation of the defense mechanisms by regulating genes involved in monolignol biosynthesis pathway, oxidoreductase activity, biosynthesis of phytohormones, and cell wall composition. This study offers further insights to better understand sorghum defenses against aphid herbivory.
The Asian corn borer (Ostrinia furnacalis) is an important agricultural pest causing serious damage to economic crops, such as corn and sorghum. The gut is the first line of defense against pathogens that enter through the mouth. Staphylococcus aureus was used to infect the O. furnacalis midgut to understand the midgut immune mechanism against exogenous pathogens to provide new ideas and methods for the prevention and control of O. furnacalis. A sequencing platform was used for genome assembly and gene expression. The unigene sequences were annotated and functionally classified by Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes. Significant differences were found in the induced expression profiles before and after infection. Some differentially expressed genes have important relations with lipid metabolism and immune mechanism, suggesting that they play an important role in the innate immune response of O. furnacalis. Furthermore, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction assay was used to identify the key genes involved in the signaling pathway, and the expression patterns of these key genes were confirmed. The results could help study the innate immune system of lepidopteran insects and provide theoretical support for the control of related pests and the protection of beneficial insects.
Because of its significance for plant male fertility and, hence, direct impact on crop yield, pollen exine development has inspired decades of scientific inquiry. However, the molecular mechanism underlying exine formation and thickness remains elusive. In this study, we identified that a previously unrecognized repressor, ZmMS1/ZmLBD30, controls proper pollen exine development in maize. Using an ms1 mutant with aberrantly thickened exine, we cloned a male-sterility gene, ZmMs1, which encodes a tapetum-specific lateral organ boundary domain transcription factor, ZmLBD30. We showed that ZmMs1/ZmLBD30 is initially turned on by a transcriptional activation cascade of ZmbHLH51-ZmMYB84-ZmMS7, and then it serves as a repressor to shut down this cascade via feedback repression to ensure timely tapetal degeneration and proper level of exine. This activation-feedback repression loop regulating male fertility is conserved in maize and sorghum, and similar regulatory mechanism may also exist in other flowering plants such as rice and Arabidopsis. Collectively, these findings reveal a novel regulatory mechanism of pollen exine development by which a long-sought master repressor of upstream activators prevents excessive exine formation.
Signal transduction mediated by heterotrimeric G proteins, which comprise the α, β, and γ subunits, is one of the most important signaling pathways in rice plants. RGA1, which encodes the Gα subunit of the G protein, plays an important role in the response to various types of abiotic stress, including salt, drought, and cold stress. However, the role of RGA1 in the response to heat stress remains unclear. The heat-resistant mutant ett1 (enhanced thermo-tolerance 1) with a new allele of the RGA1 gene was derived from an ethane methyl sulfonate-induced Zhonghua11 mutant. After 45 °C heat stress treatment for 36 h and recovery for 7 d, the survival rate of the ett1 mutants was significantly higher than that of wild-type (WT) plants. The malondialdehyde content was lower, and the maximum fluorescence quantum yield of photosystem II, peroxidase activity, and hsp expression were higher in ett1 mutants than in WT plants after 12 h of exposure to 45 °C. The RNA-sequencing results revealed that the expression of genes involved in the metabolism of carbohydrate, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, and energy was up-regulated in ett1 under heat stress. The carbohydrate content and the relative expression of genes involved in sucrose metabolism indicated that carbohydrate metabolism was accelerated in ett1 under heat stress. Energy parameters, including the adenosine triphosphate (ATP) content and the energy charge, were significantly higher in the ett1 mutants than in WT plants under heat stress. Importantly, exogenous glucose can alleviate the damages on rice seedling plants caused by heat stress. RGA1 negatively regulates the thermo-tolerance in rice seedling plants through affecting carbohydrate and energy metabolism.
Proanthocyanidins (PAs), flavonoid polymers involved in plant defense, are also beneficial to human health and ruminant nutrition. To date, there is little evidence for accumulation of PAs in maize (Zea mays), although maize makes anthocyanins and possesses the key enzyme of the PA pathway, anthocyanidin reductase (ANR). Here, we explore whether there is a functional PA biosynthesis pathway in maize using a combination of analytical chemistry and genetic approaches. The endogenous PA biosynthetic machinery in maize preferentially produces the unusual PA precursor (+)-epicatechin, as well as 4β-(S-cysteinyl)-catechin, as potential PA starter and extension units. Uncommon procyanidin dimers with (+)-epicatechin as starter unit are also found. Expression of soybean (Glycine max) anthocyanidin reductase 1 (ANR1) in maize seeds increases the levels of 4β-(S-cysteinyl)-epicatechin and procyanidin dimers mainly using (-)-epicatechin as starter units. Introducing a Sorghum bicolor transcription factor (SbTT2) specifically regulating PA biosynthesis into a maize inbred deficient in anthocyanin biosynthesis activates both anthocyanin and PA biosynthesis pathways, suggesting conservation of the PA regulatory machinery across species. Our data support the divergence of PA biosynthesis across plant species and offer perspectives for future agricultrural applications in maize.
Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) plays central roles in photosynthesis, respiration, amino acid synthesis, and seed development. PEPC is regulated by different post-translational modifications. Between them, the phosphorylation by PEPC-kinase (PEPCk) is widely documented. In this work, we simultaneously silenced the three sorghum genes encoding PEPCk (Sb
Type 2C protein phosphatases (PP2Cs) represent a major group of protein phosphatases in plants, some of which have already been confirmed to play important roles in diverse plant processes. In this study, analyses of the phylogenetics, gene structure, protein domain, chromosome localization, and collinearity, as well as an identification of the expression profile, protein-protein interaction, and subcellular location, were carried out on the PP2C family in wild sugarcane (
The quality and yields of Sorghum bicolo r plants are seriously affected by saline-alkali conditions. NAC (NAM, ATAF, and CUC) transcription factors are plant specific and have various functions in plant development and response to various stresses. To investigate how GsNAC2 functions in sorghum responses to saline-alkali treatment, the characteristics of GsNAC2 were analysed by bioinformatics methods, and NaHCO3 :Na2 CO3 (5:1, 75mM, pH 9.63) saline-alkali stress solution was applied when sorghum plants were 2weeks old. The research results show that GsNAC2 belongs to the NAC gene family. GsNAC2 was significantly induced by saline-alkali treatment and strongly expressed in sorghum leaves. GsNAC2 -overexpressing sorghum plants had increased plant height, dry weight, moisture content, root activity, leaf length, chlorophyll content, stomatal conductance, relative root activity, relative chlorophyll content, relative stomatal conductance, and relative transpiration rate after saline-alkali treatment. Lower H2 O2 and O2 - levels, relative permeability of the plasma membrane, and malondialdehyde (MDA) content were found in GsNAC2 -overexpressing sorghum. In transcriptome analysis, clusters of orthologous groups (COG) analysis showed that a high proportion of differentially-expressed genes (DEGs) participated in defence mechanisms at each processing time, and 18 DEGs related to synthetic glutathione were obtained. Gene expression analysis revealed that key genes in glutathione biosynthesis pathways were upregulated. GR and GSH-Px activities were increased, and GSH accumulated more with the overexpression of GsNAC2 after saline-alkali treatment. Furthermore, these results suggest that GsNAC2 acts as a potentially important regulator in response to saline-alkali stress and may be used in molecular breeding to improve crop yields under adverse environmental conditions.
A gene family refers to a group of genes that share a common ancestry and encode proteins or RNA molecules with similar functions or structural features. Gene families play a crucial role in determining the traits of plants and can be utilized to develop new crop varieties. Therefore, a comprehensive database of gene family is significant for gaining deep insight into crops. To address this need, we have developed CropGF (https://bis.zju.edu.cn/cropgf), a comprehensive visual platform that encompasses six important crops (rice, wheat, maize, barley, sorghum and foxtail millet) and one model plant (Arabidopsis), as well as genomics, transcriptomics and proteomics data for gene family mining and analysis, covering a total of 314 611 genes and 4399 types of domains. CropGF provides a versatile search system that allows for the identification of gene families and their members in a single crop or multiple crops. Users can customize their search based on gene family domains and/or homology using keywords or BLAST. To enhance usability, we have collected the corresponding ID information from various public databases for both genes and domains. Furthermore, CropGF comprises numerous downstream analysis modules, such as ka/ks analysis, phylogenetic tree construction, subcellular localization analysis and more. These visually-displayed modules provide intuitive insights into gene expression patterns, gene family expansion and functional relationships across different molecular levels and different species. We believe that CropGF will be a valuable resource for deep mining and analysis in future studies of crop gene families. Database URL https://bis.zju.edu.cn/cropgf.
Insect herbivores of different feeding guilds induced sorghum defenses through differential mechanisms, regardless of the order of herbivore arrival on sorghum plants. Sorghum, one of the world's most important cereal crops, suffers severe yield losses due to attack by insects of different feeding guilds. In most instances, the emergence of these pests are not secluded incidents and are followed by another or can also co-infest host plants. Sugarcane aphid (SCA) and fall armyworm (FAW) are the two most important destructive pests of sorghum, which belongs to sap-sucking and chewing feeding guilds, respectively. While the order of the herbivore arriving on the plants has been found to alter the defense response to subsequent herbivores, this is seldom studied with herbivores from different feeding guilds. In this study, we investigated the effects of sequential herbivory of FAW and SCA on sorghum defense responses and their underlying mechanism(s). Sequential feeding on the sorghum RTx430 genotype by either FAW primed-SCA or SCA primed-FAW were monitored to unravel the mechanisms underlying defense priming, and its mode of action. Regardless of the order of herbivore arrival on sorghum RTx430 plants, significant defense induction was observed in the primed state compared to the non-primed condition, irrespective of their feeding guild. Additionally, gene expression and secondary metabolite analysis revealed differential modulation of the phenylpropanoid pathway upon insect attack by different feeding guilds. Our findings suggest that priming in sorghum plants upon sequential herbivory induces defense by the accumulation of the total flavonoids and lignin/salicylic acid in FAW primed-SCA and SCA primed-FAW interaction, respectively.
Aerial root mucilage can enhance nitrogen fixation by providing sugar and low oxygen environment to the rhizosphere microbiome in Sierra Mixe maize. Aerial root mucilage has long been documented in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), but little is known about the biological significance, genotypic variation, and genetic regulation of this biological process. In the present study, we found that a large variation of mucilage secretion capacity existed in a sorghum panel consisting of 146 accessions. Mucilage secretion occurred primarily in young aerial roots under adequately humid conditions but decreased or stopped in mature long aerial roots or under dry conditions. The main components of the mucilage-soluble were glucose and fructose, as revealed by sugar profiling of cultivated and wild sorghum. The mucilage secretion capacity of landrace grain sorghum was significantly higher than that of wild sorghum. Transcriptome analysis revealed that 1844 genes were upregulated and 2617 genes were downregulated in mucilage secreting roots. Amongst these 4461 differentially expressed genes, 82 genes belonged to glycosyltransferases and glucuronidation pathways. Sobic.010G120200, encoding a UDP-glycosyltransferase, was identified by both GWAS and transcriptome analysis as a candidate gene, which may be involved in the regulation of mucilage secretion in sorghum through a negative regulatory mechanism.
Salinity is one of the major detrimental abiotic stresses at the forefront of deterring crop productivity globally. Although the exogenous application of phytohormones has formerly proven efficacious to plants, their effect on the moderately stress-tolerant crop "
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a primary limiting factor for crop production in acidic soils. The WRKY transcription factors play important roles in regulating plant growth and stress resistance. In this study, we identified and characterized two WRKY transcription factors, SbWRKY22 and SbWRKY65, in sweet sorghum (
Sorghum with longer mesocotyls is beneficialfor improving its deep tolerance, which is important for the seedling rates. Here, we perform transcriptome analysis between four different sorghum lines, with the aim of identifying the key genes regulating sorghum mesocotyl elongation. According to the mesocotyl length (ML) data, we constructed four comparison groups for the transcriptome analysis and detected 2705 common DEGs. GO and KEGG enrichment analysis showed that the most common category of DEGs were involved in cell wall, microtubule, cell cycle, phytohormone, and energy metabolism-related pathways. In the cell wall biological processes, the expression of
Plant nuclear factor (NF-Y) is a transcriptional activating factor composed of three subfamilies: NF-YA, NF-YB, and NF-YC. These transcriptional factors are reported to function as activators, suppressors, and regulators under different developmental and stress conditions in plants. However, there is a lack of systematic research on the
Chilling Tolerant Divergence 1 ( The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-023-03650-8.
Leaf senescence is a complex biological process regulated at multiple levels, including chromatin remodeling, transcription, post-transcription, translation, and post-translational modifications. Transcription factors (TFs) are crucial regulators of leaf senescence, with NAC and WRKY families being the most studied. This review summarizes the progress made in understanding the regulatory roles of these families in leaf senescence in Arabidopsis and various crops such as wheat, maize, sorghum, and rice. Additionally, we review the regulatory functions of other families, such as ERF, bHLH, bZIP, and MYB. Unraveling the mechanisms of leaf senescence regulated by TFs has the potential to improve crop yield and quality through molecular breeding. While significant progress has been made in leaf senescence research in recent years, our understanding of the molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying this process is still incomplete. This review also discusses the challenges and opportunities in leaf senescence research, with suggestions for possible strategies to address them.
Cytochrome P450 monooxygenase 98 (CYP98) is a critical rate-limiting enzyme of the phenylpropanoid pathway. One of the end-product of the phenylpropanoid pathway is a lignin monomer, although the occurrence of lignin in bryophytes is controversial. Here we investigated the functions of PpCYP98 in Physcomitrium patens by transcriptome and metabolome analyses. We identified 5266 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 68 differentially abundant secondary metabolites between wild-type and ΔPpCYP98 gametophores. Of the identified metabolites, 23 phenolic acids were identified, with only one showing upregulation. Among the phenolic acids, 4-coumaroyl tartaric acid and chlorogenic acid showed significant decreases. Declines were also observed in coniferylaldehyde and coniferin, precursor substances and downstream products of the lignin monomer coniferyl alcohol, respectively. Thus, the pre-lignin synthesis pathway already exists in bryophytes, and PpCYP98 plays vital roles in this pathway. Besides, most flavonoids show significant reductions, including eriodyctiol, dihydroquecetin, and dihydromyricetin, whereas naringenin chalone and dihydrokaempferol were increased after PpCYP98 knockout. Therefore, the synthesis of flavonoids shares the core pathway with phenylpropanoids and mainly starts from caffeoyl-CoA, that is the compound of divergence between the two pathways in moss. PpCYP98 showed systemic effects on metabolisms, including carbohydrate, fatty acid, and hormonal signaling transductions, suggesting that PpCYP98 might indirectly regulate carbon influx allocation. Our results demonstrated roles of PpCYP98 were essential for the development of the early landing plant.
Genetic underpinnings of host-pathogen interactions in the parasitic plant Striga hermonthica, a root parasitic plant that ravages cereals in sub-Saharan Africa, are unclear. We performed a comparative transcriptome study on five genotypes of sorghum exhibiting diverse resistance responses to S. hermonthica using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). We found that S. hermonthica elicits both basal and effector-triggered immunity-like a bona fide pathogen. The resistance response was genotype specific. Some resistance responses followed the salicylic acid-dependent signaling pathway for systemic acquired resistance characterized by cell wall reinforcements, lignification, and callose deposition, while in others the WRKY-dependent signaling pathway was activated, leading to a hypersensitive response. In some genotypes, both modes of resistance were activated, while in others either mode dominated the resistance response. Cell wall-based resistance was common to all sorghum genotypes but strongest in IS2814, while a hypersensitive response was specific to N13, IS9830, and IS41724. WGCNA further allowed for pinpointing of S. hermonthica resistance causative genes in sorghum, including glucan synthase-like 10 gene, a pathogenesis-related thaumatin-like family gene, and a phosphoinositide phosphatase gene. Such candidate genes will form a good basis for subsequent functional validation and possibly future resistance breeding.
Pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP)-triggered immunity (PTI) is the first line of defense in plant disease resistance. However, the molecular mechanisms of plant PTI vary across species, making it challenging to identify a core set of trait-associated genes. This study aimed to investigate key factors that influence PTI and identify the core molecular network in Sorghum bicolor, a C4 plant. We performed comprehensive weighted gene co-expression network analysis and temporal expression analysis of large-scale transcriptome data from various sorghum cultivars under different PAMP treatments. Our results revealed that the type of PAMP had a stronger influence on the PTI network than did the sorghum cultivar. Following PAMP treatment, 30 genes with stable downregulated expression and 158 genes with stable upregulated expression were identified, including genes encoding potential pattern recognition receptors whose expression was upregulated within 1 h of treatment. PAMP treatment altered the expression of resistance-related, signaling, salt-sensitive, heavy metal-related, and transporter genes. These findings provide novel insights into the core genes involved in plant PTI and are expected to facilitate the identification and application of resistance genes in plant breeding studies.
Different plant species within the grasses were parallel targets of domestication, giving rise to crops with distinct evolutionary histories and traits
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) widely participate in plant growth and development. The miR396 family, one of the most conserved miRNA families, remains poorly understood in sorghum. To reveal the evolution and expression pattern of Sbi-miR396 gene family in sorghum, bioinformatics analysis and target gene prediction were performed on the sequences of the Sbi-miR396 gene family members. The results showed that five Sbi-miR396 members, located on chromosomes 4, 6, and 10, were identified at the whole-genome level. The secondary structure analysis showed that the precursor sequences of all five Sbi-miR396 potentially form a stable secondary stem-loop structure, and the mature miRNA sequences were generated on the 5' arm of the precursors. Sequence analysis identified the mature sequences of the five sbi-miR396 genes were high identity, with differences only at the 1st, 9th and 21st bases at the 5' end. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that Sbi-miR396a, Sbi-miR396b, and Sbi-miR396c were clustered into Group I, and Sbi-miR396d and Sbi-miR396e were clustered into Group II, and all five sbi-miR396 genes were closely related to those of maize and foxtail millet. Expression analysis of different tissue found that Sbi-miR396d/e and Sbi-miR396a/b/c were preferentially and barely expressed, respectively, in leaves, flowers, and panicles. Target gene prediction indicates that the growth-regulating factor family members (SbiGRF1/2/3/4/5/6/7/8/10) were target genes of Sbi-miR396d/e. Thus, Sbi-miR396d/e may affect the growth and development of sorghum by targeting SbiGRFs. In addition, expression analysis of different tissues and developmental stages found that all Sbi-miR396 target genes, SbiGRFs, were barely expressed in leaves, root and shoot, but were predominantly expressed in inflorescence and seed development stage, especially SbiGRF1/5/8. Therefore, inhibition the expression of sbi-miR396d/e may increase the expression of SbiGRF1/5/8, thereby affecting floral organ and seed development in sorghum. These findings provide the basis for studying the expression of the Sbi-mir396 family members and the function of their target genes.
Biological nitrogen fixation converting atmospheric dinitrogen to ammonia is an important way to provide nitrogen for plants. Pseudomonas stutzeri DSM4166 is a diazotrophic Gram-negative bacterium isolated from the rhizosphere of cereal Sorghum nutans. Endogenous constitutive promoters are important for engineering of the nitrogen fixation pathway, however, they have not been systematically characterized in DSM4166. Twenty-six candidate promoters were identified from DSM4166 by RNA-seq analysis. These 26 promoters were cloned and characterized using the firefly luciferase gene. The strengths of nineteen promoters varied from 100 to 959% of the strength of the gentamicin resistance gene promoter. The strongest P12445 promoter was used to overexpress the biological nitrogen fixation pathway-specific positive regulator gene nifA. The transcription level of nitrogen fixation genes in DSM4166 were significantly increased and the nitrogenase activity was enhanced by 4.1 folds determined by the acetylene reduction method. The nifA overexpressed strain produced 359.1 µM of extracellular ammonium which was 25.6 times higher than that produced by the wild-type strain. The endogenous strong constitutive promoters identified in this study will facilitate development of DSM4166 as a microbial cell factory for nitrogen fixation and production of other useful compounds.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench) is a promising target for pro-vitamin A biofortification as it is a global staple crop, particularly in regions where vitamin A deficiency is prevalent. As with most cereal grains, carotenoid concentrations are low in sorghum, and breeding could be a feasible strategy to increase pro-vitamin A carotenoids to biologically relevant concentrations. However, there are knowledge gaps in the biosynthesis and regulation of sorghum grain carotenoids, which can limit breeding effectiveness. The aim of this research was to gain an understanding of the transcriptional regulation of a priori candidate genes in carotenoid precursor, biosynthesis, and degradation pathways. We used RNA sequencing of grain to compare the transcriptional profile of four sorghum accessions with contrasting carotenoid profiles through grain development. Most a priori candidate genes involved in the precursor MEP, carotenoid biosynthesis, and carotenoid degradation pathways were found to be differentially expressed between sorghum grain developmental stages. There was also differential expression of some of the a priori candidate genes between high and low carotenoid content groups at each developmental time point. Among these, we propose geranyl geranyl pyrophosphate synthase (GGPPS), phytoene synthase (PSY), and phytoene desaturase (PDS) as promising targets for pro-vitamin A carotenoid biofortification efforts in sorghum grain. A deeper understanding of the controls underlying biosynthesis and degradation of sorghum grain carotenoids is needed to advance biofortification efforts. This study provides the first insights into the regulation of sorghum grain carotenoid biosynthesis and degradation, suggesting potential gene targets to prioritize for molecular breeding.
Plant growth often encounters diverse abiotic stresses. As a global resource-based ecological problem, salinity is widely distributed and one of the major abiotic stresses affecting crop yields worldwide. Sorghum, a cereal crop with medium salt tolerance and great value for the development and utilization of salted soils, is an important source of food, brewing, energy, and forage production. However, in soils with high salt concentrations, sorghum experiences low emergence and suppressed metabolism. It has been demonstrated that the effects of salt stress on germination and seedling growth can be effectively mitigated to a certain extent by the exogenous amendment of hormonal gibberellin (GA). At present, most of the studies on sorghum salt tolerance at home and abroad focus on morphological and physiological levels, including the transcriptome analysis of the exogenous hormone on sorghum salt stress tolerance, the salt tolerance metabolism pathway, and the mining of key salt tolerance regulation genes. The high-throughput sequencing technology is increasingly widely used in the study of crop resistance, which is of great significance to the study of plant resistance gene excavation and mechanism. In this study, we aimed to review the effects of the exogenous hormone GA on leaf morphological traits of sorghum seedlings and further analyze the physiological response of sorghum seedling leaves and the regulation of sorghum growth and development. This review not only focuses on the role of GA but also explores the signal transduction pathways of GA and the performance of their responsive genes under salt stress, thus helping to further clarify the mechanism of regulating growth and production under salt stress. This will serve as a reference for the molecular discovery of key genes related to salt stress and the development of new sorghum varieties.
Sudan grass is a high-quality forage of sorghum. The degree of lignification of Sudan grass is the main factor affecting its digestibility in ruminants such as cattle and sheep. Almost all lignocellulose in Sudan grass is stored in the secondary cell wall, but the mechanism and synthesis of the secondary cell wall in Sudan grass is still unclear. In order to study the mechanism of secondary cell wall synthesis in Sudan grass, we used an in vitro induction system of Sudan grass secondary cell wall. Through transcriptome sequencing, it was found that the
Root system architecture (RSA), also known as root morphology, is critical in plant acquisition of soil resources, plant growth, and yield formation. Many QTLs associated with RSA or root traits in maize have been identified using several bi-parental populations, particularly in response to various environmental factors. In the present study, a meta-analysis of QTLs associated with root traits was performed in maize using 917 QTLs retrieved from 43 mapping studies published from 1998 to 2020. A total of 631 QTLs were projected onto a consensus map involving 19,714 markers, which led to the prediction of 68 meta-QTLs (MQTLs). Among these 68 MQTLs, 36 MQTLs were validated with the marker-trait associations available from previous genome-wide association studies for root traits. The use of comparative genomics approaches revealed several gene models conserved among the maize, sorghum, and rice genomes. Among the conserved genomic regions, the ortho-MQTL analysis uncovered 20 maize MQTLs syntenic to 27 rice MQTLs for root traits. Functional analysis of some high-confidence MQTL regions revealed 442 gene models, which were then subjected to in silico expression analysis, yielding 235 gene models with significant expression in various tissues. Furthermore, 16 known genes viz.,
Plant U-box (PUB) E3 ubiquitin ligases play essential roles in many biological processes and stress responses, but little is known about their functions in sorghum (
Sorghum is a resilient and widely cultivated grain crop used for feed and food. However, it's grain is deficient in lysine, an essential amino acid. This is due to the primary seed storage proteins, the alpha-kafirins, lacking lysine. It has been observed that reductions in alpha-kafirin protein results in rebalancing of the seed proteome and a corresponding increase in non-kafirin proteins which leads to an increased lysine content. However, the mechanisms underlying proteome rebalancing are unclear. This study characterizes a previously developed gene edited sorghum line, with deletions at the alpha kafirin locus. A single consensus guide RNA leads to tandem deletion of multiple members of the gene family in addition to the small target site mutations in remaining genes. RNA-seq and ATAC-seq were utilized to identify changes in gene expression and chromatin accessibility in developing kernels in the absence of most alpha-kafirin expression. Several differentially accessible chromatin regions and differentially expressed genes were identified. Additionally, several genes upregulated in the edited sorghum line were common with their syntenic orthologues differentially expressed in maize prolamin mutants. ATAC-seq showed enrichment of the binding motif for ZmOPAQUE 11, perhaps indicating the transcription factor's involvement in the kernel response to reduced prolamins. Overall, this study provides a resource of genes and chromosomal regions which may be involved in sorghum's response to reduced seed storage proteins and the process of proteome rebalancing.
The cyanogenic glucoside, dhurrin, present in Sorghum bicolor is thought to have multiple functions, including in defence against herbivory. The hormone methyl jasmonate (MeJA) is also induced by herbivory and is key to instigating defence processes in plants. To investigate whether dhurrin is induced in response to herbivore attack and also to the associated presence of MeJA, sorghum plants were either wounded or exogenous MeJA was applied. We show that specific wounding (pin board and perforation) and the application of MeJA increases dhurrin concentration in leaves and sheath tissue 12 h after treatment. Quantitative PCR shows that the expression of two genes, SbCYP79A1 and SbUGT85B1, involved in the synthesis of dhurrin are significantly induced by exogenous MeJA and by wounding. Analysis of 2 kb of sequence upstream of the start codon of SbCYP79A1 identifies several cis-acting elements that have been linked to MeJA induction. A promoter deletion series, coupled to GFP, and transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana suggests that there are potentially three sequence motifs (~-925 to -976) involved in the binding of transcription factors that result in increased expression of SbCYP79A1 and the synthesis of dhurrin in response to MeJA.
Drought is a major limiting factor affecting grain production. Drought-tolerant crop varieties are required to ensure future grain production. Here, 5597 DEGs were identified using transcriptome data before and after drought stress in foxtail millet (
Grasses derive from a family of monocotyledonous plants that includes crops of major economic importance such as wheat, rice, sorghum and barley, sharing a common ancestor some 100 million years ago. The genomic attributes of plant adaptation remain obscure and the consequences of recurrent whole genome duplications (WGD) or polyploidization events, a major force in plant evolution, remain largely speculative. We conducted a comparative analysis of omics data from ten grass species to unveil structural (inversions, fusions, fissions, duplications, substitutions) and regulatory (expression and methylation) basis of genome plasticity, as possible attributes of plant long lasting evolution and adaptation. The present study demonstrates that diverged polyploid lineages sharing a common WGD event often present the same patterns of structural changes and evolutionary dynamics, but these patterns are difficult to generalize across independent WGD events as a result of non-WGD factors such as selection and domestication of crops. Polyploidy is unequivocally linked to the evolutionary success of grasses during the past 100 million years, although it remains difficult to attribute this success to particular genomic consequences of polyploidization, suggesting that polyploids harness the potential of genome duplication, at least partially, in lineage-specific ways. Overall, the present study clearly demonstrates that post-polyploidization reprogramming is more complex than traditionally reported in investigating single species and calls for a critical and comprehensive comparison across independently polyploidized lineages.
Salinity and drought are significant abiotic stresses causing a considerable loss of seed and biomass yield in most commercial crops. Some of the most critical players in the abscisic acid pathway are drought responsive element binding (DREB) proteins that are a part of AP2/ethylene response factor transcription factors that bind to promoters of some family genes needed to be expressed under abiotic stresses. In this study, salt- and drought-tolerant maize plants were produced from immature maize embryos bombarded by the sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) DREB2 gene that is linked to hygromycin resistance (hpt) genes. The putative transgenic calli were transferred to an N6 medium containing 1 mg/L benzylaminopurine and 50 mg/L hygromycin. Regeneration was completed after 4 weeks on selective media under a 16/8 h light/dark condition at 25°C. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and reverse transcription-PCR approved the existence of upstream promoter (rd29a), hpt gene, and the expression of the DREB2 in transgenes up to the third generation (T2). It was found that the K+/Na+ ratio and the amount of proline as a screening indicator were higher in transgenic plants compared to their wild types. This result is a promising model to enhance maize tolerance to abiotic stressors.
The corn planthopper, Peregrinus maidis, is an economically important pest of maize and sorghum. Its feeding behaviour and the viruses it transmits can significantly reduce crop yield. The control of P. maidis and its associated viruses relies heavily on insecticides. However, control has proven difficult due to limited direct exposure of P. maidis to insecticides and rapid development of resistance. As such, alternative control methods are needed. In the absence of a genome assembly for this species, we first developed transcriptomic resources. Then, with the goal of finding targets for RNAi-based control, we identified members of the ATP-binding cassette transporter family and targeted specific members via RNAi. PmABCB_160306_3, PmABCE_118332_5 and PmABCF_24241_1, whose orthologs in other insects have proven important in development, were selected for knockdown. We found that RNAi-mediated silencing of PmABCB_160306_3 impeded ovary development; disruption of PmABCE_118332_5 resulted in localized melanization; and knockdown of PmABCE_118332_5 or PmABCF_24241_1 each led to high mortality within five days. Each phenotype is similar to that found when targeting the orthologous gene in other species and it demonstrates their potential for use in RNAi-based P. maidis control. The transcriptomic data and RNAi results presented here will no doubt assist with the development of new control methods for this pest.
During plant evolution, nucleotide-binding sites (NBS) and leucine-rich repeat (LRR) genes have made significant contributions to plant disease resistance. With many high-quality plant genomes sequenced, identification and comprehensive analyses of NBS-LRR genes at whole genome level are of great importance to understand and utilize them. In this study, we identified the NBS-LRR genes of 23 representative species at whole genome level, and researches on NBS-LRR genes of four monocotyledonous grass species, Saccharum spontaneum, Saccharum officinarum, Sorghum bicolor and Miscanthus sinensis, were focused. We found that whole genome duplication, gene expansion, and allele loss could be factors affecting the number of NBS-LRR genes in the species, and whole genome duplication is likely to be the main cause of the number of NBS-LRR genes in sugarcane. Meanwhile, we also found a progressive trend of positive selection on NBS-LRR genes. These studies further elucidated the evolutionary pattern of NBS-LRR genes in plants. Transcriptome data from multiple sugarcane diseases revealed that more differentially expressed NBS-LRR genes were derived from S. spontaneum than from S. officinarum in modern sugarcane cultivars, and the proportion was significantly higher than the expected. This finding reveals that S. spontaneum has a greater contribution to disease resistance for modern sugarcane cultivars. In addition, we observed allelespecific expression of seven NBS-LRR genes under leaf scald, and 125 NBS-LRR genes responding to multiple diseases were identified. Finally, we built a plant NBS-LRR gene database to facilitate subsequent analysis and use of NBSLRR genes obtained here. In conclusion, this study complemented and completed the research of plant NBS-LRR genes, and discussed how NBS-LRR genes responding to sugarcane diseases, which provided a guide and genetic resources for further research and utilization of NBS-LRR genes.
Seed germination is crucial for plant productivity, and the biochemical changes during germination affect seedling survival, plant health and yield. While the general metabolism of germination is extensively studied, the role of specialized metabolism is less investigated. We therefore analyzed the metabolism of the defense compound dhurrin during sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) grain germination and early seedling development. Dhurrin is a cyanogenic glucoside, which is catabolized into different bioactive compounds at other stages of plant development, but its fate and role during germination is unknown. We dissected sorghum grain into three different tissues and investigated dhurrin biosynthesis and catabolism at the transcriptomic, metabolomic and biochemical level. We further analyzed transcriptional signature differences of cyanogenic glucoside metabolism between sorghum and barley (Hordeum vulgare), which produces similar specialized metabolites. We found that dhurrin is de novo biosynthesized and catabolized in the growing embryonic axis as well as the scutellum and aleurone layer, two tissues otherwise mainly acknowledged for their involvement in release and transport of general metabolites from the endosperm to the embryonic axis. In contrast, genes encoding cyanogenic glucoside biosynthesis in barley are exclusively expressed in the embryonic axis. Glutathione transferase enzymes (GSTs) are involved in dhurrin catabolism and the tissue-resolved analysis of GST expression identified new pathway candidate genes and conserved GSTs as potentially important in cereal germination. Our study demonstrates a highly dynamic tissue- and species-specific specialized metabolism during cereal grain germination, highlighting the importance of tissue-resolved analyses and identification of specific roles of specialized metabolites in fundamental plant processes.
Sorghum is the fifth most important cereal crop. Here we performed molecular genetic analyses of the 'SUGARY FETERITA' (SUF) variety, which shows typical sugary endosperm traits (e.g., wrinkled seeds, accumulation of soluble sugars, and distorted starch). Positional mapping indicated that the corresponding gene was located on the long arm of chromosome 7. Within the candidate region of 3.4 Mb, a sorghum ortholog for maize
Drought tolerance is a highly complex trait controlled by numerous interconnected pathways with substantial variation within and across plant species. This complexity makes it difficult to distill individual genetic loci underlying tolerance, and to identify core or conserved drought-responsive pathways. Here, we collected drought physiology and gene expression datasets across diverse genotypes of the C4 cereals sorghum and maize and searched for signatures defining water-deficit responses. Differential gene expression identified few overlapping drought-associated genes across sorghum genotypes, but using a predictive modeling approach, we found a shared core drought response across development, genotype, and stress severity. Our model had similar robustness when applied to datasets in maize, reflecting a conserved drought response between sorghum and maize. The top predictors are enriched in functions associated with various abiotic stress-responsive pathways as well as core cellular functions. These conserved drought response genes were less likely to contain deleterious mutations than other gene sets, suggesting that core drought-responsive genes are under evolutionary and functional constraints. Our findings support a broad evolutionary conservation of drought responses in C4 grasses regardless of innate stress tolerance, which could have important implications for developing climate resilient cereals.
Mosaic viral diseases affect sugarcane productivity worldwide. Mining disease resistance-associated molecular markers or genes is a key component of disease resistance breeding programs. In the present study, 285 F
Drought stress is a major environmental hazard. Stomatal development is highly responsive to abiotic stress and has been used as a cellular marker for drought-tolerant crop selection. C3 and C4 crops have evolved into different photosynthetic systems and physiological responses to water deficits. The genome sequences of maize, sorghum, and sugarcane make it possible to explore the association of the stomatal response to drought stress with the evolution of the key stomatal regulators. In this study, phylogenic analysis, gene expression analysis and stomatal assay under drought stress were used to investigate the drought tolerance of C3 and C4 plants. Our data shows that C3 and C4 plants exhibit different drought responses at the cellular level. Drought represses the growth and stomatal development of C3 crops but has little effect on that of C4 plants. In addition, stomatal development is unresponsive to drought in drought-tolerant C3 crops but is repressed in drought-tolerant C4 plants. The different developmental responses to drought in C3 and C4 plants might be associated with the divergent expression of their
Sixteen Lhc genes representing 13 phylogenetic groups were identified from the full-length transcriptome of tigernut, exhibiting development regulation and diurnal fluctuation expression patterns in leaves. Nuclear encoded light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b-binding (Lhc) proteins play indispensable roles in oxygenic photosynthesis. In this study, we present the first transcriptome-based characterization of Lhc family genes in tigernut (Cyperus esculentus L.), a Cyperaceae C
Plant-specific Class III peroxidases (PRXs) play a crucial role in lignification, cell elongation, seed germination, and biotic and abiotic stresses. The class III peroxidase gene family in sugarcane were identified by bioinformatics methods and realtime fluorescence quantitative PCR. Eighty-two PRX proteins were characterized with a conserved PRX domain as members of the class III PRX gene family in R570 STP. The ShPRX family genes were divided into six groups by the phylogenetic analysis of sugarcane, Saccharum spontaneum, sorghum, rice, and These results help elucidate the structure, evolution, and functions of the class III
Drought stress severely threatens the yield of cereal crops. Therefore, understanding the molecular mechanism of drought stress response of plants is crucial for developing drought-tolerant cultivars. NAC transcription factors (TFs) play important roles in abiotic stress of plants, but the functions of NAC TFs in sorghum are largely unknown. Here, we characterized a sorghum NAC gene,
Transformation in grass species has traditionally relied on immature embryos and has therefore been limited to a few major Poaceae crops. Other transformation explants, including leaf tissue, have been explored but with low success rates, which is one of the major factors hindering the broad application of genome editing for crop improvement. Recently, leaf transformation using morphogenic genes Wuschel2 (Wus2) and Babyboom (Bbm) has been successfully used for Cas9-mediated mutagenesis, but complex genome editing applications, requiring large numbers of regenerated plants to be screened, remain elusive. Here we demonstrate that enhanced Wus2/Bbm expression substantially improves leaf transformation in maize and sorghum, allowing the recovery of plants with Cas9-mediated gene dropouts and targeted gene insertion. Moreover, using a maize-optimized Wus2/Bbm construct, embryogenic callus and regenerated plantlets were successfully produced in eight species spanning four grass subfamilies, suggesting that this may lead to a universal family-wide method for transformation and genome editing across the Poaceae.
Plants compete for light partly by over-producing chlorophyll in leaves. The resulting high light absorption is an effective strategy for out competing neighbors in mixed communities, but it prevents light transmission to lower leaves and limits photosynthesis in dense agricultural canopies. We used a CRISPR/Cas9-mediated approach to engineer rice plants with truncated light-harvesting antenna (TLA) via knockout mutations to individual antenna assembly component genes CpSRP43, CpSRP54a, and its paralog, CpSRP54b. We compared the photosynthetic contributions of these components in rice by studying the growth rates of whole plants, quantum yield of photosynthesis, chlorophyll density and distribution, and phenotypic abnormalities. Additionally, we investigated a Poales-specific duplication of CpSRP54. The Poales are an important family that includes staple crops such as rice, wheat, corn, millet, and sorghum. Mutations in any of these three genes involved in antenna assembly decreased chlorophyll content and light absorption and increased photosynthesis per photon absorbed (quantum yield). These results have significant implications for the improvement of high leaf-area-index crop monocultures.
Zinc deficiency altered shoot and root growth, plant biomass, yield, and ZIP family transporter gene expression in sorghum. Zinc (Zn) deficiency affects several crop plants' growth and yield, including sorghum. We have evaluated the sorghum under various concentrations of Zn supply for phenotypic changes, Zn content, and expression of Zn-regulated, iron-regulated transporter-like proteins (ZIP) family genes. Zn deficiency reduced the shoot and root growth, plant biomass, and yield by > 50%. The length and number of lateral roots were increased by more than 50% under deficient Zn compared to sufficient Zn. Ten SbZIP family transporter genes showed dynamic expression in shoot and root tissues of sorghum under deficient and sufficient Zn. SbZIP2, 5, 6, 7, and 8 were expressed in all tissues under deficient and sufficient Zn. SbZIP2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 10 were highly induced in shoot tissues by deficient Zn. The expression level of SbZIP6, 7, 8, and 9 was higher in root tissues under deficient Zn. The phylogenetic analysis revealed that most SbZIP family proteins are closely associated with the ZmZIP family of maize. The functional residues His177 and Gly182 are fully conserved in all SbZIP family transporters, as revealed by homology modeling and multiple sequence alignment. This study may provide a foundation for improving the Zn-use efficiency of sorghum.
The onset of leaf de-greening and senescence is governed by a complex regulatory network including environmental cues and internal factors such as transcription factors (TFs) and phytohormones, in which ethylene (ET) is one key inducer. However, the detailed mechanism of ET signalling for senescence regulation is still largely unknown. Here, we found that the WRKY TF SbWRKY50 from Sorghum bicolor L., a direct target of the key component ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE 3 in ET signalling, functioned for leaf senescence repression. The clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR-associated protein9-edited SbWRKY50 mutant (SbWRKY5O-KO) of sorghum displayed precocious senescent phenotypes, while SbWRKY50 overexpression delayed age-dependent and dark-induced senescence in sorghum. SbWRKY50 negatively regulated chlorophyll degradation through direct binding to the promoters of several chlorophyll catabolic genes. In addition, SbWRKY50 recruited the Polycomb repressive complex 1 through direct interaction with SbBMI1A, to induce histone 2A mono-ubiquitination accumulation on the chlorophyll catabolic genes for epigenetic silencing and thus delayed leaf senescence. Especially, SbWRKY50 can suppress early steps of chlorophyll catabolic pathway via directly repressing SbNYC1 (NON-YELLOW COLORING 1). Other senescence-related hormones could also influence leaf senescence through repression of SbWRKY50. Hence, our work shows that SbWRKY50 is an essential regulator downstream of ET and SbWRKY50 also responds to other phytohormones for senescence regulation in sorghum.
SbMYBHv33 negatively regulated biomass accumulation and salt tolerance in sorghum and Arabidopsis by regulating reactive oxygen species accumulation and ion levels. Salt stress is one of the main types of environmental stress leading to a reduction in crop yield worldwide. Plants have also evolved a variety of corresponding regulatory pathways to resist environmental stress damage. This study aimed to identify a SbMYBHv33 transcription factor that downregulates in salt, drought, and abscisic acid (ABA) in the salt-tolerant inbred line sorghum M-81E. The findings revealed that overexpression of SbMYBHv33 in sorghum significantly reduced sorghum biomass accumulation at the seedling stage and also salinity tolerance. Meanwhile, a heterologous transformation of Arabidopsis with SbMYBHv33 produced a similar phenotype. The loss of function of the Arabidopsis homolog of SbMYBHv33 resulted in longer roots and increased salt tolerance. Under normal conditions, SbMYBHV33 overexpression promoted the expression of ABA pathway genes in sorghum and inhibited growth. Under salt stress conditions, the gene expression of SbMYBHV33 decreased in the overexpressed lines, and the promotion of these genes in the ABA pathway was attenuated. This might be an important reason for the difference in growth and stress resistance between SbMYBHv33-overexpressed sorghum and ectopic expression Arabidopsis. Hence, SbMYBHv33 is an important component of sorghum growth and development and the regulation of salt stress response, and it could negatively regulate salt tolerance and biomass accumulation in sorghum.
The proteins with DNA-binding preference to the consensus DNA sequence (A/T) GATA (A/G) belong to a GATA transcription factor family, with a wide array of biological processes in plants. Cassava (
Adaptations by arthropod pests to host plant defenses of crops determine their impacts on agricultural production. The larval host range of western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), is restricted to maize and a few grasses. Resistance of D. v. virgifera to crop rotation practices and multiple insecticides contributes to its status as the most damaging pest of cultivated maize in North America and Europe. The extent to which adaptations by this pest contributes to host plant specialization remains unknown. A 2.42 Gb draft D. v. virgifera genome, Dvir_v2.0, was assembled from short shotgun reads and scaffolded using long-insert mate-pair, transcriptome and linked read data. K-mer analysis predicted a repeat content of ≥ 61.5%. Ortholog assignments for Dvir_2.0 RefSeq models predict a greater number of species-specific gene duplications, including expansions in ATP binding cassette transporter and chemosensory gene families, than in other Coleoptera. A majority of annotated D. v. virgifera cytochrome P450s belong to CYP4, 6, and 9 clades. A total of 5,404 transcripts were differentially-expressed between D. v. virgifera larvae fed maize roots compared to alternative host (Miscanthus), a marginal host (Panicum virgatum), a poor host (Sorghum bicolor) and starvation treatments; Among differentially-expressed transcripts, 1,908 were shared across treatments and the least number were between Miscanthus compared to maize. Differentially-expressed transcripts were enriched for putative spliceosome, proteosome, and intracellular transport functions. General stress pathway functions were unique and enriched among up-regulated transcripts in marginal host, poor host, and starvation responses compared to responses on primary (maize) and alternate hosts. Manual annotation of D. v. virgifera Dvir_2.0 RefSeq models predicted expansion of paralogs with gene families putatively involved in insecticide resistance and chemosensory perception. Our study also suggests that adaptations of D. v. virgifera larvae to feeding on an alternate host plant invoke fewer transcriptional changes compared to marginal or poor hosts. The shared up-regulation of stress response pathways between marginal host and poor host, and starvation treatments may reflect nutrient deprivation. This study provides insight into transcriptomic responses of larval feeding on different host plants and resources for genomic research on this economically significant pest of maize.
Nitrogen metabolism (NM) plays an essential role in response to abiotic stresses for plants. Enzyme activities have been extensively studied for nitrogen metabolism-associated pathways, but the knowledge of nitrogen metabolism-associated genes involved in stress response is still limited, especially for rice. In this study, we performed the genome-wide characterization of the genes putatively involved in nitrogen metabolism. A total of 1110 potential genes were obtained to be involved in nitrogen metabolism from eight species (
With No Lysine kinases (WNKs) represents a gene family that encodes Ser/Thr kinases, with anomalous disposition of catalytic lysine residue in subdomain I. In plants, WNKs had been linked to circadian rhythm, photoperiodic response and abiotic stress tolerance with mechanism yet undeciphered. In the present study, full-length CDS sequences of rice WNKs (OsWNK1 to 8) were cloned from indica cultivar IR64. A total of six highly conserved kinase subdomains were identified. Comparative analysis of protein sequences from six different species of rice showed varying magnitudes of substitution (76.2 %), deletion (15.4 %), and addition (8.4 %) events. ConSurf analysis coupled with CASTp results identified functional residues that were clustered together in modelled 3-D structures. Among post-translational modifications (PTMs) studied, 87.7 % of phosphorylation sites were predicted. Mined protein-protein interactions (PPIs) depicted OsWNKs to interact notably with other OsWNK members and with key proteins like PRR95 involved in photoperiodic response and protein phosphatase like PP2C involved in ABA signalling. Gene duplication analysis revealed two paralogous duplicated gene pairs: WNK6-WNK9 and WNK7-WNK8. Oryza sativa showed maximum syntenic relationship with Sorghum bicolor among the compared species. OsWNKs showed differential transcript expression profiles on treatment with plant growth regulators indicating its versatile role in plant growth and development.
Several species in the oomycete genus Peronosclerospora cause downy mildew on maize and can result in significant yield losses in Asia. Bio-surveillance of these pathogens is a high priority to prevent epidemics on maize in the United States and consequent damage to the US economy. The unresolved taxonomy and dearth of molecular resources for Peronosclerospora spp. hinder these efforts. P. sorghi is a pathogen of sorghum and maize with a global distribution, for which limited diversity has been detected in the southern USA. We characterized the genome, transcriptome, and mitogenome of an isolate, representing the US pathotype 6. The highly homozygous genome was assembled using 10× Genomics linked reads and scaffolded using Hi-C into 13 chromosomes. The total assembled length was 303.2 Mb, larger than any other oomycete previously assembled. The mitogenome was 38 kb, similar in size to other oomycetes, although it had a unique gene order. Nearly 20,000 genes were annotated in the nuclear genome, more than described for other downy mildew causing oomycetes. The 13 chromosomes of P. sorghi were highly syntenic with the 17 chromosomes of Peronospora effusa with conserved centromeric regions and distinct chromosomal fusions. The increased assembly size and gene count of P. sorghi is due to extensive retrotransposition, resulting in putative pseudogenization. Ancestral genes had higher transcript abundance and were enriched for differential expression. This study provides foundational resources for analysis of Peronosclerospora and comparisons to other oomycete genera. Further genomic studies of global Peronosclerospora spp. will determine the suitability of the mitogenome, ancestral genes, and putative pseudogenes for marker development and taxonomic relationships.
The highly conserved tubby-like proteins (TLPs) play key roles in animal neuronal development and plant growth. The abiotic stress tolerance function of TLPs has been widely explored in plants, however, little is known about comparative studies of TLPs within crops. Bioinformatic identification, phylogenetic analysis, Cis-element analysis, expression analysis, Cis-element analysis, expression analysis and so on were explored to analysis the TLP gene family of multiple crops. In this study, a comprehensive analysis of Combined yeast two-hybrid system and pull down assay, we suggested that the
Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL, EC 4.3.1.25) plays a crucial role in plant adaptation to biotic and abiotic stresses. However, the current knowledge about PAL proteins in sorghum is essentially lacking. Thus, in this study we aimed to analyze the PAL family genes in sorghum using a genome-wide approach and to explore the role of PAL genes in host plant resistance to aphids via SA-mediated defense signaling. Here, we report gene structural features of 8 PAL (SbPAL) genes in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), their phylogeny, protein motifs and promoter analysis. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the SbPAL genes were induced by sugarcane aphid (SCA) infestation and SbPAL exhibited differential gene expression in susceptible and resistant genotypes. PAL activity assays further validated upregulated expression of the SbPAL genes in a resistant genotype. In addition, exogenous application of SA reduced plant damage and suppressed aphid population growth and fecundity in susceptible genotype, suggesting that those SbPAL genes act as positive regulator of the SA-mediated defense signaling pathway to combat aphid pests in sorghum. This study provides insights for further examination of the defense role of PAL in sorghum against other pests and pathogens.
Salt stress is one of the major causes of reduced crop production, limiting agricultural development globally. Plants have evolved with complex systems to maintain the balance between growth and stress responses, where signaling pathways such as hormone signaling play key roles. Recent studies revealed that hormones are modulated by microRNAs (miRNAs). Previously, two sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) inbred lines with different salt tolerance were identified: the salt-tolerant M-81E and the salt-sensitive Roma. The levels of endogenous hormones in M-81E and Roma varied differently under salt stress, showing a different balance between growth and stress responses. miRNA and degradome sequencing showed that the expression of many upstream transcription factors regulating signal transduction and hormone-responsive genes was directly induced by differentially expressed miRNAs, whose levels were very different between the two sweet sorghum lines. Furthermore, the effects of representative miRNAs on salt tolerance in sorghum were verified through a transformation system mediated by Agrobacterium rhizogenes. Also, miR-6225-5p reduced the level of Ca
Foxtail millet is commonly used as a food and forage grass. ERECTA (ER) is a receptor-like kinase that can improve plant biomass and stress resistance. The sorghum
Grass inflorescences support floral structures that each bear a single grain, where variation in branch architecture directly impacts yield. The maize (Zea mays) RAMOSA1 (ZmRA1) transcription factor acts as a key regulator of inflorescence development by imposing branch meristem determinacy. Here, we show RA1 transcripts accumulate in boundary domains adjacent to spikelet meristems in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor, Sb) and green millet (Setaria viridis, Sv) inflorescences similar as in the developing maize tassel and ear. To evaluate the functional conservation of syntenic RA1 orthologs and promoter cis sequences in maize, sorghum, and setaria, we utilized interspecies gene transfer and assayed genetic complementation in a common inbred background by quantifying recovery of normal branching in highly ramified ra1-R mutants. A ZmRA1 transgene that includes endogenous upstream and downstream flanking sequences recovered normal tassel and ear branching in ra1-R. Interspecies expression of two transgene variants of the SbRA1 locus, modeled as the entire endogenous tandem duplication or just the nonframeshifted downstream copy, complemented ra1-R branching defects and induced unusual fasciation and branch patterns. The SvRA1 locus lacks conserved, upstream noncoding cis sequences found in maize and sorghum; interspecies expression of a SvRA1 transgene did not or only partially recovered normal inflorescence forms. Driving expression of the SvRA1 coding region by the ZmRA1 upstream region, however, recovered normal inflorescence morphology in ra1-R. These data leveraging interspecies gene transfer suggest that cis-encoded temporal regulation of RA1 expression is a key factor in modulating branch meristem determinacy that ultimately impacts grass inflorescence architecture.
Plants undergo dynamic metabolic changes at the cellular level upon insect infestation to better defend themselves. Phenylpropanoids, a hub of secondary plant metabolites, encompass a wide range of compounds that can contribute to insect resistance. Here, the role of sorghum (
In order to find similarity of the protein X in maize with other species we performed a BLASTP search to identify the maize ZmPR-1 family genes. We used a BLASTP search to identify the maize ZmPR-1 family genes that may show similarities between the protein X in maize and other species. A total of 17 ZmPR-1 genes were identified and these genes were unevenly distributed on 8 chromosomes of maize. All ZmPR-1 gene predicted proteins contained a conserved CAP domain, according to the results of multiple sequence alignment and gene structure analysis. Phylogenetic tree analysis of a total of 85 PR-1 protein sequences from maize, sorghum, rice and Arabidopsis showed that the PR-1 family proteins were divided into four categories, and the maize ZmPR-1 was closely related to sorghum PR-1. In the promoter of maize ZmPR-1 gene, hypothetical cis-elements related to fungal induction, defense stress response, plant hormones, low temperature and drought response were detected. Microarray data analysis showed that ZmPR-1 displayed a tissue-specific expression pattern at different developmental stages, and responded to the infections of five maize pathogens. In addition, we further verified that four ZmPR-1 genes (ZmPR-1-5, 12, 14 and 16) were not only significantly up-regulated after Setosphearia turcica infection, but also affected by exogenous cues such as SA, ABA, MeJA and H The ZmPR-1 family may be important in plant disease resistance. This study's data provide important clues for future research on the function of ZmPR-1 family genes.
A 28-day battery cage study was conducted to test the efficacy of tannin-free grain sorghum varieties fed to Cobb 500 male broiler chickens (n = 512) and challenged with Eimeria maxima (EM) and Clostridium perfringens (CP). Birds were fed 1 of 8 treatments (corn, red/bronze, white/tan, or U.S. No. 2 sorghum) and were grouped by challenge method (challenged with EM/CP or unchallenged). On d 14, birds in the challenge group were orally inoculated with ∼5,000 oocysts of EM, and on d 19, 20, and 21, birds were given a broth culture of CP with ∼10
Stem structural failure, or lodging, affects many crops including sorghum, and can cause large yield losses. Lodging is typically caused by mechanical forces associated with severe weather like high winds, but exposure to sub-catastrophic forces may strengthen stems and improve lodging resistance. The responses of sorghum internodes at different developmental stages were examined at 2 and 26 h after initiating moderate mechanical stimulation with an automated apparatus. Transcriptome profiling revealed that mechanical stimulation altered the expression of over 900 genes, including transcription factors, cell wall-related and hormone signaling-related genes. IAA, GA
Sorghum is one of the five most productive crops worldwide, but its yield is seriously limited by phosphate (Pi) availability. Although inorganic Pi signalling is well studied in Arabidopsis and rice, it remains largely unknown in sorghum. The sorghum sbpho2 mutant was identified, showing leaf necrosis and short roots. Map-based cloning identified SbPHO2 as Sobic.009G228100, an E2 conjugase gene that is a putative orthologue of the PHO2 genes in rice and Arabidopsis, which play important roles in Pi signalling. Pi starvation experiments and transformation of SbPHO2 into the rice ospho2 mutant further revealed that SbPHO2 is likely involved in Pi accumulation and root architecture alteration in sorghum. qRTPCR results showed that SbPHO2 was expressed in almost the entire plant, especially in the leaves. Furthermore, some typical Pi starvation-induced genes were induced in sbpho2 even under Pi-sufficient conditions, including Pi transporters, SPXs, phosphatases and lipid composition alteration-related genes. In addition to P accumulation in the shoots of sbpho2, concentrations of N, K, and other metal elements were also altered significantly in the sbpho2 plants. Nitrate uptake was also suppressed in the sbpho2 mutant. Consistent with this finding, the expression of several nitrate-, potassium- and other metal element-related genes was also altered in sbpho2. Furthermore, the results indicated that N-dependent control of the P starvation response is regulated via SbPHO2 in sorghum. Our results suggest that SbPHO2 participates in the regulation of the absorption of multiple nutrients, although PHO2 is a crucial and conserved component of Pi starvation signalling.
Wall-associated kinase (WAK) is widely involved in signal transduction, reproductive growth, responses to pathogen infection and metal ion stress in plants. In this study, 19, 12, and 37 SsWAK genes were identified in Saccharum spontaneum, Saccharum hybrid and Sorghum bicolor, respectively. Phylogenetic tree showed that they could be divided into three groups. These WAK genes contained multiple cis-acting elements related to stress, growth and hormone response. RNA-seq analysis demonstrated that SsWAK genes were constitutively expressed in different sugarcane tissues and involved in response to smut pathogen (Sporisorium scitamineum) stress. Additionally, ScWAK1 (GenBank Accession No. OP479864), was then isolated from sugarcane cultivar ROC22. It was highly expressed in leaves and roots and its expression could be induced under SA and MeJA stress. Besides, ScWAK1 was significantly downregulated in both smut-resistant and susceptible sugarcane cultivars in response to S. scitamineum infection. ScWAK1 was a membrane protein without self-activating activity. Furthermore, transient expression of ScWAK1 in Nicotiana benthamiana enhanced the susceptibility of tobacco to the inoculation of Ralstonia solanacearum and Fusarium solani var. coeruleum, suggesting its negative role in disease resistance. The present study reveals the origin, distribution and evolution of WAK gene family and provides potential gene resources for sugarcane molecular breeding.
Sorghum is an important food and feed crop globally; its production is hampered by anthracnose disease caused by the fungal pathogen Colletotrichum sublineola (Cs). Here, we report identification and characterization of ANTHRACNOSE RESISTANCE GENE 2 (ARG2) encoding a nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat (NLR) protein that confers race-specific resistance to Cs strains. ARG2 is one of a cluster of several NLR genes initially identified in the sorghum differential line SC328C that is resistant to some Cs strains. This cluster shows structural and copy number variations in different sorghum genotypes. Different sorghum lines carrying independent ARG2 alleles provided the genetic validation for the identity of the ARG2 gene. ARG2 expression is induced by Cs, and chitin induces ARG2 expression in resistant but not in susceptible lines. ARG2-mediated resistance is accompanied by higher expression of defense and secondary metabolite genes at early stages of infection, and anthocyanin and zeatin metabolisms are upregulated in resistant plants. Interestingly, ARG2 localizes to the plasma membrane when transiently expressed in Nicotiana benthamiana. Importantly, ARG2 plants produced higher shoot dry matter than near-isogenic lines carrying the susceptible allele suggesting an absence of an ARG2 associated growth trade-off. Furthermore, ARG2-mediated resistance is stable at a wide range of temperatures. Our observations open avenues for resistance breeding and for dissecting mechanisms of resistance.
Water deficit is a major constraint for crops of economic importance in almost all agricultural regions. However, plants have an active defense system to adapt to these adverse conditions, acting in the reprogramming of gene expression responsible for encoding microRNAs (miRNAs). These miRNAs promote the regulation to the target gene expression by the post-transcriptional (PTGS) and transcriptional gene silencing (TGS), modulating several pathways including defense response to water deficit. The broader knowledge of the miRNA expression profile and its regulatory networks in response to water deficit can provide evidence for the development of new biotechnological tools for genetic improvement of several important crops. In this study, we used The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-022-01226-z.
Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) have been known to possess bacteriocidal activity resulting from ribosomally synthesized antimicrobial peptides called bacteriocin. This study focused on the characterization of the bactericidal activity of bacteriocin PB2 and comprehensive detection of the pediocin ped-A1 from
The C2 domain family proteins in plants has been recently shown to be involved in the response to abiotic stress such as salt and drought stress. However, less information on C2 domain family members has been reported in The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-022-01222-3.
Drought is the major limiting factor that directly or indirectly inhibits the growth and reduces the productivity of sorghum (
Plant cell walls are interwoven structures recalcitrant to degradation. Native and adapted microbiomes can be particularly effective at plant cell wall deconstruction. Although most understanding of biological cell wall deconstruction has been obtained from isolates, cultivated microbiomes that break down cell walls have emerged as new sources for biotechnologically relevant microbes and enzymes. These microbiomes provide a unique resource to identify key interacting functional microbial groups and to guide the design of specialized synthetic microbial communities. To establish a system assessing comparative microbiome performance, parallel microbiomes were cultivated on sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) from compost inocula. Biomass loss and biochemical assays indicated that these microbiomes diverged in their ability to deconstruct biomass. Network reconstructions from gene expression dynamics identified key groups and potential interactions within the adapted sorghum-degrading communities, including Actinotalea, Filomicrobium, and Gemmatimonadetes populations. Functional analysis demonstrated that the microbiomes proceeded through successive stages that are linked to enzymes that deconstruct plant cell wall polymers. The combination of network and functional analysis highlighted the importance of cellulose-degrading Actinobacteria in differentiating the performance of these microbiomes. The two-tier cultivation of compost-derived microbiomes on sorghum led to the establishment of microbiomes for which community structure and performance could be assessed. The work reinforces the observation that subtle differences in community composition and the genomic content of strains may lead to significant differences in community performance. Video Abstract.
Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) is widely used to control pollination in the production of commercial F
OsiCRY2 is involved in light-regulated plant development and plays a role in regulating photomorphogenesis, plant height, flowering and most strikingly partial photomorphogenesis in dark. Cryptochrome 2 (CRY2), the blue/UV-A light photoreceptor in plants, has been reported to regulate photoperiod-dependent flowering and seedling photomorphogenesis (under low-intensity light). Among monocots, CRY2 has been reported from japonica rice, wheat, sorghum and barley. The two sub-species of rice, indica and japonica, exhibit a high degree of genetic variation and morphological and physiological differences. This article describes the characterization of CRY2 of indica rice (OsiCRY2). While the transcript levels of OsiCRY2 did not change significantly under blue light, its protein levels were found to decline with increased time duration under blue light. For phenotypic characterization, OsiCRY2 over-expression (OX) transgenics were generated in Oryza sativa Pusa Sugandh 2 (PS2) cultivar, a highly scented Basmati cultivar. The OsiCRY2
The aboveground parts of plants are covered with cuticle, a hydrophobic layer composed of cutin polyester and cuticular wax that can protect plants from various environmental stresses.
Phytochromes play vital roles in the regulation of flowering time, but little is known in Panicoideae species, especially the C
Sorghum ("Jitian 3") is a salt-tolerant seed cultivar used regularly in marginal lands, such as those with saline soils. Herein, we examined the potential of employing gibberellic acid (GA
Atrazine (ATZ) is part of a group of herbicides called triazines. ATZ is widely used in agricultural areas of Mexico, commonly used for the selective control of weeds in corn and sorghum crops. The exposure to ATZ can have serious human health effects since its use was associated with the development of cutaneous melanoma in an epidemiological study. The aim of this study was to evaluate the expression of maturation and apoptotic markers in primary skin cultures exposed to ATZ. The primary skin cultures were exposed to 0.1, and 10
Sorghum is vulnerable to many biotic and abiotic stresses, which cause considerable yield losses globally. Efforts to genetically characterize beneficial sorghum traits, including disease resistance, plant architecture, and tolerance to abiotic stresses, are ongoing. One challenge faced by sorghum researchers is its recalcitrance to transformation, which has slowed gene validation efforts and utilization for cultivar development. Here, we characterize the use of a foxtail mosaic virus (FoMV) vector for virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) by targeting two previously tested marker genes: phytoene desaturase (PDS) and ubiquitin (Ub). We additionally demonstrate VIGS of a subgroup of receptor-like cytoplasmic kinases (RLCKs) and report the role of these genes as positive regulators of early defence signalling. Silencing of subgroup 8 RLCKs also resulted in higher susceptibility to the bacterial pathogens Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae (B728a) and Xanthomonas vasicola pv. holcicola, demonstrating the role of these genes in host defence against bacterial pathogens. Together, this work highlights the utility of FoMV-induced gene silencing in the characterization of genes mediating defence responses in sorghum. Moreover, FoMV was able to systemically infect six diverse sorghum genotypes with high efficiency at optimal temperatures for sorghum growth and therefore could be extrapolated to study additional traits of economic importance.
Phosphorus is a non-renewable natural resource that will run out of reserves in the upcoming decades, making it essential to understanding the inheritance of nutrient use efficiency for selecting superior genotypes. This study investigated the additive and non-additive effects of commercially relevant traits for the popcorn crop (grain yield-GY, popping expansion-PE, and expanded popcorn volume per hectare-PV) in different conditions of phosphorus (P) availability in two locations in Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil. Six S
Sorghum is an important worldwide source of food, feed and fibres. Like most plants, it forms mutualistic symbioses with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF), but the nutritional basis of mycorrhiza-responsiveness is largely unknown. Here, we investigated the transcriptional and physiological responses of sorghum to two different AMF species, Rhizophagus irregularis and Funneliformis mosseae, under 16 different conditions of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) supply. Our experiment reveals fine-scale differences between two AMF species in the nutritional interactions with sorghum plants. Physiological and gene expression patterns (ammonium transporters: AMT; phosphate transporters: PHT) indicate the existence of generalist or specialist mycorrhizal pathway. While R. irregularis switched on the mycorrhizal pathway independently of the plant nutritional status, F. mosseae influenced the mycorrhizal pathway depending on the N-to-P plant ratio and soil supply. The differences between both AMF species suggest some AMT and PHT as ideal candidates to develop markers for improving efficiency of nutrient acquisition in sorghum under P and N limitation, and for the selection of plant genotypes.
The precise and accurate identification and quantification of transcriptional start sites (TSSs) is key to understanding the control of transcription. The core promoter consists of the TSS and proximal non-coding sequences, which are critical in transcriptional regulation. Therefore, the accurate identification of TSSs is important for understanding the molecular regulation of transcription. Existing protocols for TSS identification are challenging and expensive, leaving high-quality data available for a small subset of organisms. This sparsity of data impairs study of TSS usage across tissues or in an evolutionary context. To address these shortcomings, we developed Smart-Seq2 Rolling Circle to Concatemeric Consensus (Smar2C2), which identifies and quantifies TSSs and transcription termination sites. Smar2C2 incorporates unique molecular identifiers that allowed for the identification of as many as 70 million sites, with no known upper limit. We have also generated TSS data sets from as little as 40 pg of total RNA, which was the smallest input tested. In this study, we used Smar2C2 to identify TSSs in Glycine max (soybean), Oryza sativa (rice), Sorghum bicolor (sorghum), Triticum aestivum (wheat) and Zea mays (maize) across multiple tissues. This wide panel of plant TSSs facilitated the identification of evolutionarily conserved features, such as novel patterns in the dinucleotides that compose the initiator element (Inr), that correlated with promoter expression levels across all species examined. We also discovered sequence variations in known promoter motifs that are positioned reliably close to the TSS, such as differences in the TATA box and in the Inr that may prove significant to our understanding and control of transcription initiation. Smar2C2 allows for the easy study of these critical sequences, providing a tool to facilitate discovery.
The objective of this study was to reveal the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway in white (Z6), red (Z27) and black (HC4) seeds of the sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) using metabolomics and transcriptomics, to identify different flavonoid metabolites, and to analyze the differentially expressed genes involved in flavonoid biosynthesis. We analyzed the metabolomics and transcriptomics data of sweet sorghum seeds. Six hundred and fifty-one metabolites including 171 flavonoids were identified in three samples. Integrated analysis of transcriptomics and metabolomics showed that 8 chalcone synthase genes (gene19114, gene19115, gene19116, gene19117, gene19118, gene19120, gene19122 and gene19123) involved in flavonoid biosynthesis, were identified and play central role in change of color. Six flavanone including homoeriodictyol, naringin, prunin, naringenin, hesperetin and pinocembrin were main reason for the color difference. Our results provide valuable information on the flavonoid metabolites and the candidate genes involved in the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway in sweet sorghum seeds.
The DUF26 domain-containing protein is an extracellular structural protein, which plays an important role in signal transduction. Dongxiang wild rice (
Banana is one of the major food crops and its production is subject to many pests and diseases. Banana breeding exploits wild relatives and progenitor species for the introgression of resistant genes (R) into cultivated varieties to overcome these hurdles. With advances in sequencing technologies, whole-genome sequences are available for many
Red leaves are common in trees but rare in cereal crops. Red leaves can be used as raw materials for anthocyanin extraction and may have some adaptive significance for plants. In this study, we discovered a red leaf phenotype in the F
Recent focus on transcriptomic studies in food crops like rice, wheat and maize provide new opportunities to address issues related to agriculture and climate change. Re-analysis of such data available in public domain supplemented with annotations across molecular hierarchy can be of immense help to the plant research community, particularly co-expression networks representing transcriptionally coordinated genes that are often part of the same biological process. With this objective, we have developed NetREx, a Network-based Rice Expression Analysis Server, that hosts ranked co-expression networks of Oryza sativa using publicly available messenger RNA sequencing data across uniform experimental conditions. It provides a range of interactable data viewers and modules for analysing user-queried genes across different stress conditions (drought, flood, cold and osmosis) and hormonal treatments (abscisic and jasmonic acid) and tissues (root and shoot). Subnetworks of user-defined genes can be queried in pre-constructed tissue-specific networks, allowing users to view the fold change, module memberships, gene annotations and analysis of their neighbourhood genes and associated pathways. The web server also allows querying of orthologous genes from Arabidopsis, wheat, maize, barley and sorghum. Here, we demonstrate that NetREx can be used to identify novel candidate genes and tissue-specific interactions under stress conditions and can aid in the analysis and understanding of complex phenotypes linked to stress response in rice. Database URL: https://bioinf.iiit.ac.in/netrex/index.html.
Abiotic stress caused by unsuitable environmental changes brings serious impacts on the growth and development of sorghum, resulting in significant loss in yield and quality every year. Phospholipase D is one of the key enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of phospholipids, and participates in plants response to abiotic stresses and phytohormones, whereas as the main producers of Phosphatidic acid (PA) signal, the detailed information about Phospholipase D associated ( The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-022-01200-9.
Drought is a major environmental stress that limits growth and productivity in agricultural ecosystems limiting crop yield worldwide. Breeding crops for enhanced drought tolerance is a priority to preserve food security on the increasing world population. Recent work in Arabidopsis has shown that vascular brassinosteroid receptor BRL3 (Brassinosteroid insensitive like-3) transcriptionally controls the production of osmoprotectant metabolites that confer drought resistance without penalizing growth, offering new and exciting possibilities for biotechnological improvement of drought-resistant crops. In cereals, understanding transcriptional responses to drought is an essential step for the production of gene-edited drought-resistant cereals. In this chapter, we present a method to analyze the transcriptional responses to drought in Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench, our cereal of choice. Among the genes we tested, we found that drought marker gene SbDHN1 has a 1000-fold increase only after 1 day of drought, bringing possibilities for the development of molecular sensors for testing drought. Overall, this analysis is useful to set up conditions of high-throughput transcriptomic analysis of drought stressed plants before drought phenotype is observed.
Acyl carrier proteins (ACP) constitute a very conserved carrier protein family. Previous studies have found that ACP not only takes part in the fatty acid synthesis process of almost all organisms, but also participates in the regulation of plant growth, development, and metabolism, and makes plants adaptable to stresses. However, this gene family has not been systematically studied in sorghum. Nine ACP family members were identified in the sorghum genome, which were located on chromosomes 1, 2, 5, 7, 8 and 9, respectively. Evolutionary analysis among different species divided the ACP family into four subfamilies, showing that the SbACPs were more closely related to maize. The prediction results of subcellular localization showed that SbACPs were mainly distributed in chloroplasts and mitochondria, while fluorescence localization showed that SbACPs were mainly localized in chloroplasts in tobacco leaf. The analysis of gene structure revealed a relatively simple genetic structure, that there were 1-3 introns in the sorghum ACP family, and the gene structure within the same subfamily had high similarity. The amplification method of SbACPs was mainly large fragment replication, and SbACPs were more closely related to ACPs in maize and rice. In addition, three-dimensional structure analysis showed that all ACP genes in sorghum contained four α helices, and the second helix structure was more conserved, implying a key role in function. Cis-acting element analysis indicated that the SbACPs might be involved in light response, plant growth and development regulation, biotic and abiotic stress response, plant hormone regulation, and other physiological processes. What's more, qRT-PCR analysis uncovered that some of SbACPs might be involved in the adaptive regulation of drought and salt stresses, indicating the close relationship between fatty acids and the resistance to abiotic stresses in sorghum. In summary, these results showed a comprehensive overview of the SbACPs and provided a theoretical basis for further studies on the biological functions of SbACPs in sorghum growth, development and abiotic stress responses.
Lignin is an aromatic plant cell wall polymer that facilitates water transport through the vasculature of plants and is generated in large quantities as an inexpensive by-product of pulp and paper manufacturing and biorefineries. Although lignin's ability to reduce bacterial growth has been reported previously, its hydrophobicity complicates the ability to examine its biological effects on living cells in aqueous growth media. We recently described the ability to solvate lignin in Good's buffers with neutral pH, a breakthrough that allowed examination of lignin's antimicrobial effects against the human pathogen Staphylococcus aureus. These analyses showed that lignin damages the S. aureus cell membrane, causes increased cell clustering, and inhibits growth synergistically with tunicamycin, a teichoic acid synthesis inhibitor. In the present study, we examined the physiological and transcriptomic responses of S. aureus to lignin. Intriguingly, lignin restored the susceptibility of genetically resistant S. aureus isolates to penicillin and oxacillin, decreased intracellular pH, impaired normal cell division, and rendered cells more resistant to detergent-induced lysis. Additionally, transcriptome sequencing (RNA-Seq) differential expression (DE) analysis of lignin-treated cultures revealed significant gene expression changes (
SbWRKY55 functions as a key component of the ABA-mediated signaling pathway; transgenic sorghum regulates plant responses to saline environments and will help save arable land and ensure food security. Salt tolerance in plants is triggered by various environmental stress factors and endogenous hormonal signals. Numerous studies have shown that WRKY transcription factors are involved in regulating plant salt tolerance. However, the underlying mechanism for WRKY transcription factors regulated salt stress response and signal transduction pathways remains largely unknown. In this study, the SbWRKY55 transcription factor was found to be the key component for reduced levels of salt and abscisic acid in SbWRKY55 overexpression significantly reduced salt tolerance in sorghum and Arabidopsis. Mutation of the homologous gene AtWRKY55 in A. thaliana significantly enhanced salt tolerance, and SbWRKY55 supplementation in the mutants restored salt tolerance. In the transgenic sorghum with SbWRKY55 overexpression, the expression levels of genes involved in the abscisic acid (ABA) pathway were altered, and the endogenous ABA content decreased. Yeast one-hybrid assays and dual-luciferase reporter assay showed that SbWRKY55 binds directly to the promoter of SbBGLU22 and inhibits its expression level. In addition, both in vivo and in vitro biochemical analyses showed that SbWRKY55 interacts with the FYVE zinc finger protein SbFYVE1, blocking the ABA signaling pathway. This could be an important feedback regulatory pathway to balance the SbWRKY55-mediated salt stress response. In summary, the results of this study provide convincing evidence that SbWRKY55 functions as a key component in the ABA-mediated signaling pathway, highlighting the dual role of SbWRKY55 in ABA signaling. This study also showed that SbWRKY55 could negatively regulate salt tolerance in sorghum.
Bio-based fuels have become popular being efficient, cost-effective, and eco-friendly alternatives to fossil fuels. Among plant sources exploited as feedstocks, C
The NGATHA (NGA) transcription factor (TF) belongs to the ABI3/VP1 (RAV) transcriptional subfamily, a subgroup of the B3 superfamily, which is relatively well-studied in Arabidopsis. However, limited data are available on the contributions of NGA TF in other plant species. In this study, 207 NGA gene family members were identified from a genome-wide search against
S-metolachlor (MET) was used to prevent weed infestation in sorghum fields, but inappropriate application could result in phytotoxicity on sorghum. Exogenous gibberellin A Leaf deformity of sorghum caused by 200 mg/L MET was alleviated by treating sorghum shoots with 800 mg/L GA In this study, exogenous GA
Key Message Transcriptome analysis of SA sensitive and tolerant lines indicates that SA enhances anthracnose resistance in sorghum by upregulating the expression of some immune-related genes and pathways.Abstract Anthracnose caused by the hemibiotrophic pathogen Colletotrichum sublineolum is one of the most destructive diseases of sorghum, the fifth most important cereal crop in the world. Salicylic acid (SA) is a phytohormone essential for plant immunity; however, the role of SA in sorghum resistance to anthracnose has not been well explored. In this study, we found that Colletotrichum sublineolum infection induced the expression of SA-responsive genes and that exogenous SA enhanced resistance to anthracnose in the sorghum line BTx623. To rule out the possibility that SA triggers anthracnose resistance in sorghum by its direct toxic function on pathogen, an SA-tolerant line, WHEATLAND, was identified, and we found that SA treatment could not induce anthracnose resistance in WHEATLAND. Then, SA-induced transcriptome changes during Colletotrichum sublineolum infection in BTx623 and WHEATLAND were analyzed to explore the molecular mechanism of SA-triggered resistance. SA pretreatment regulated the expression of 2125 genes in BTx623 but only 524 genes in WHEATLAND during Colletotrichum sublineolum infection. The cutin, suberine and wax biosynthesis pathway involved in the plant immune response and the flavonoid biosynthesis pathway involved in anthracnose resistance were enriched in BTx623-specifically upregulated genes. Additionally, some immune-related genes, including multiple resistance genes, were differentially expressed in BTx623 and WHEATLAND. Taken together, our results revealed the mechanisms of SA-induced anthracnose resistance in sorghum at the transcriptional level and shed light on the possibility of enhancing sorghum resistance to anthracnose by activating the SA signaling pathway by molecular breeding.
The molecular mechanisms associated with secondary cell wall (SCW) deposition in sorghum remain largely uncharacterized. Here, we employed untargeted metabolomics and large-scale transcriptomics to correlate changes in SCW deposition with variation in global gene expression profiles and metabolite abundance along an elongating internode of sorghum, with a major focus on lignin and phenolic metabolism. To gain deeper insight into the metabolic and transcriptional changes associated with pathway perturbations, a bmr6 mutant [with reduced cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) activity] was analyzed. In the wild type, internode development was accompanied by an increase in the content of oligolignols, p-hydroxybenzaldehyde, hydroxycinnamate esters, and flavonoid glucosides, including tricin derivatives. We further identified modules of genes whose expression pattern correlated with SCW deposition and the accumulation of these target metabolites. Reduced CAD activity resulted in the accumulation of hexosylated forms of hydroxycinnamates (and their derivatives), hydroxycinnamaldehydes, and benzenoids. The expression of genes belonging to one specific module in our co-expression analysis correlated with the differential accumulation of these compounds and contributed to explaining this metabolic phenotype. Metabolomics and transcriptomics data further suggested that CAD perturbation activates distinct detoxification routes in sorghum internodes. Our systems biology approach provides a landscape of the metabolic and transcriptional changes associated with internode development and with reduced CAD activity in sorghum.
Aldehyde dehydrogenases (ALDHs) are a family of NAD(P) In this study, a total of 19 ALDH genes have been identified that have been grouped into ten families based on the criteria of the ALDH gene nomenclature committee. Segmental duplication assisted more in the enhancement of SbALDH gene family members than tandem duplication. All the identified SbALDH members made a cluster with monocot rice and maize in the phylogenetic tree rather than dicot species, suggesting the pre-eudicot-monocot separation of the ALDH superfamily members. The gene structure and protein domain were found to be mostly conserved in separate phylogenetic classes, indicating that each family played an important role in evolution. Expression analysis revealed that several SbALDHs were expressed in various tissues, developmental stages, and in response to abiotic stresses, indicating that they can play roles in plant growth, development, or stress adaptation. Interestingly, the majority of the SbALDH genes were found to be highly responsive to drought stress, and the SbALDH18B1 transcript showed maximum enhancement in all the stress conditions. The presence of cis-acting elements (mainly ABRE and MBS) in the promoter region of these genes might have a significant role in drought tolerance. Our findings add to the current understanding, evolutionary history, and contribution of SbALDHs in stress tolerance, and smooth the path of further functional validation of these genes.
Sorghum is a high-quality raw material for brewing white wine, and the starch content in seeds has a large impact on brewing quality. Transcriptomic data obtained from a glutinous variety (Liaonian3) and a non-glutinous variety (Liaoza10) at 3, 18, and 30 days after pollination were analyzed to identify genes associated with starch accumulation. The amylopectin content was significantly higher in Liaonian3 compared to Liaoza10, but the amylose content and total starch content were lower. There were 6634 differentially expressed genes found in Liaoza10 between 3 and 18 d after pollination, and 779 differentially expressed genes between 18 and 30 d after pollination. In Liaonian3, there were 6768 differentially expressed genes between 3 and 18 d after pollination, and 7630 differentially expressed genes between 18 and 30 d after pollination. Genes were grouped by expression profiles over the three time points and the profiles were analyzed for enrichment of gene ontology terms and biochemical pathways. Profile 1 (decreasing expression from 3 to 30 d) for Liaoza10 was enriched in ribosomes, metabolic pathways, and carbon metabolic pathways. Profile 0 (decreasing expression from 3 to 18 d and consistent expression from 18 to 30 d) was enriched in pathways related to sugar or starch metabolism. Although the starch accumulation rate in Liaonian3 and Liaoza10 showed a profile of increasing and then decreasing, the expression of genes related to starch synthesis gradually decreased with time since pollination, demonstrating the complexity of starch synthesis. According to orthologous gene alignment and expression analysis, 19 genes such as entrzID_8068390 and entrzID_8066807 were found to be the key genes for starch synthesis and glutinous and non-glutinous differentiation in sorghum grains.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) is the fifth important cereal and an industrial energy crop in the world. Growth Regulation Factors (GRFs) play an important role in response to environmental stress, however, the knowledge of GRFs relating to the pest resistance is lacking. Here, we identified 8 GRF genes harboring the typical QLQ (glutamine, leucine, glutamine) and WRC (tryptophan, arginine, cysteine) domains in Sorghum, which could be classified into 4 clades through phylogenetic analysis. The SbGRF genes express in most tissues, while more than half of them express at the highest level in inflorescence. To further investigate their possible role in stress response, we analyzed the transcriptomics data. The results showed that SbGRFs could respond to the abiotic stresses including heat, salt and drought stress. Furthermore, combined the data with qRT-PCR, SbGRF1, 2, 4 and 7 were identified as dominant genes response to the aphid-induced stress. SSR markers close to these genes were also searched. Above all, we summarized the SbGRFs and provided their potential roles in aphid response.
Sorghum has been recognized as a promising energy crop. The composition and structure of lignin in the cell wall are important factors that affect the quality of plant biomass as a bioenergy feedstock. Silicon (Si) supply may affect the lignin content and structure, as both Si and lignin are possibly involved in plant mechanical strength. However, our understanding regarding the interaction between Si and lignin in sorghum is limited. Therefore, in this study, we analyzed the lignin in the cell walls of sorghum seedlings cultured hydroponically with or without Si supplementation. Limiting the Si supply significantly increased the thioglycolic acid lignin content and thioacidolysis-derived syringyl/guaiacyl monomer ratio. At least part of the modification may be attributable to the change in gene expression, as suggested by the upregulation of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis-related genes under -Si conditions. The cell walls of the -Si plants had a higher mechanical strength and calorific value than those of the +Si plants. These results provide some insights into the enhancement of the value of sorghum biomass as a feedstock for energy production by limiting Si uptake.
Flower development and fertility are coordinately regulated by endogenous developmental signals, including the phytohormones jasmonates (JAs), auxin, and gibberellin, and environmental cues. JAs regulate stamen development and fertility under basal conditions, affect root growth and trichome formation under stress conditions, and control defense responses against insect herbivores and pathogens. Since the 1990s, an increasing number of studies have revealed the essential roles of JA biosynthesis, signaling, and crosstalk in regulation of flower development and fertility. Here, we summarize and present an updated overview of the JA pathway and its crosstalk in modulating flower/sexual organ development and fertility in Arabidopsis, tomato, rice, maize, and sorghum.
The awn, a needle-like structure extending from the tip of the lemma in grass species, plays a role in environmental adaptation and fitness. In some crops, awns appear to have been eliminated during domestication. Although numerous genes involved in awn development have been identified, several dominant genes that eliminate awns are also known to exist. For example, in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), the dominant awn-inhibiting gene has been known since 1921; however, its molecular features remain uncharacterized. In this study, we conducted quantitative trait locus analysis and a genome-wide association study of awn-related traits in sorghum and identified DOMINANT AWN INHIBITOR (DAI), which encodes the ALOG family protein on chromosome 3. DAI appeared to be present in most awnless sorghum cultivars, likely because of its effectiveness. Detailed analysis of the ALOG protein family in cereals revealed that DAI originated from a duplication of its twin paralog (DAIori) on chromosome 10. Observations of immature awns in near-isogenic lines revealed that DAI inhibits awn elongation by suppressing both cell proliferation and elongation. We also found that only DAI gained a novel function to inhibit awn elongation through an awn-specific expression pattern distinct from that of DAIori. Interestingly, heterologous expression of DAI with its own promoter in rice inhibited awn elongation in the awned cultivar Kasalath. We found that DAI originated from gene duplication, providing an interesting example of gain-of-function that occurs only in sorghum but shares its functionality with rice and sorghum.
C2H2 zinc finger protein (C2H2-ZFP) is one of the most important transcription factor families in higher plants. In this study, a total of 145
Brassinosteroid-related genes are involved in regulating plant growth and stress responses. However, systematic analysis is limited to Gramineae species, and their roles in plant architecture and salt stress remain unclear. In this study, we identified brassinosteroid-related genes in wheat, barley, maize, and sorghum and investigated their evolutionary relationships, conserved domains, transmembrane topologies, promoter sequences, syntenic relationships, and gene/protein structures. Gene and genome duplications led to considerable differences in gene numbers. Specific domains were revealed in several genes (i.e.,
Sweet sorghum has strong stress resistance and is considered a promising energy crop. In the present study, the effects of salt on the membrane lipid metabolism of two sweet sorghum inbred lines (salt-tolerant M-81E and salt-sensitive Roma) were analyzed. After treatment with 150 mM NaCl, higher levels of fresh weight and chlorophyll fluorescence, as well as lower levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) were found in salt-tolerant M-81E. Concomitantly, 702 and 1339 differentially expression genes (DEGs) in M-81E and Roma were identified in response to salt stress. We determined that most DEGs were related to glycerophospholipid metabolism, glycerolipid metabolism, and other membrane lipid metabolisms. Under NaCl treatment, the expression of the membrane-associated phospholipase A1 was down-regulated at the transcriptional level, along with an increased content of phosphatidylcholine (PC) in both cultivars. The inhibition of triacylglycerol (TAG) mobilization in M-81E delayed salt-induced leaf senescence. Furthermore, enhanced levels of glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase (GPAT) expression contributed to improved salt resistance in M-81E. The results of this study demonstrate membrane the role of lipid regulation in mediating salt-defensive responses in sweet sorghum and expand our understanding of the relationship between changes in membrane lipid content and salt resistance.
The plant hormones gibberellins (GAs) regulate plant growth and development and are closely related to the yield of cash crops. The GA oxidases (GAoxs), including the GA2ox, GA3ox, and GA20ox subfamilies, play pivotal roles in GAs' biosynthesis and metabolism, but their classification and evolutionary pattern in Gramineae crops remain unclear. We thus conducted a comparative genomic study of
In higher plants, sucrose synthase (Susy, EC 2.4.1.13) as an enzyme with a core function, involved in the synthesis and breakdown of sugars, and plays an important role in growth and metabolism. Although, the different genes encoding Susy isozyme proteins have been cloned and functionally verified in several plant species, to date detailed information about the The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-022-01166-8.
Sugarcane mosaic disease (SMD) is a major viral disease of sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) worldwide. Sorghum mosaic virus (SrMV) is the dominant pathogen of SMD in the sugarcane planting areas of China. There is no report on miRNAs and their regulatory networks in sugarcane response to SrMV infection. In this study, small RNA sequencing (sRNA-seq) of samples from the leaves of SMD-susceptible variety ROC22 and -resistant variety FN39 infected by SrMV was performed. A total of 132 mature miRNAs (55 known miRNAs and 77 novel miRNAs) corresponding to 1,037 target genes were identified. After the SrMV attack, there were 30 differentially expressed miRNAs (17 up-regulated and 13 down-regulated) in FN39 and 19 in ROC22 (16 up-regulated and 3 down-regulated). Besides, there were 18 and 7 variety-specific differentially expressed miRNAs for FN39 and ROC22, respectively. KEGG enrichment analysis showed that the differentially expressed miRNAs targeted genes involved in several disease resistance-related pathways, such as mRNA surveillance, plant pathway interaction, sulfur metabolism, and regulation of autophagy. The reliability of sequencing data, and the expression patterns / regulation relationships between the selected differentially expressed miRNAs and their target genes in ROC22 and FN39 were confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR. A regulatory network diagram of differentially expressed miRNAs and their predicted target genes in sugarcane response to SrMV infection was sketched. In addition, precursor sequences of three candidate differentially expressed novel miRNAs (nov_3741, nov_22650 and nov_40875) were cloned from the ROC22 leaf infected by SrMV. Transient overexpression demonstrated that they could induce the accumulation of hydrogen peroxide and the expression level of hypersensitive response marker genes, salicylic acid-responsive genes and ethylene synthesis-depended genes in Nicotiana benthamiana. It is thus speculated that these three miRNAs may be involved in regulating the early immune response of sugarcane plants following SrMV infection. This study lays a foundation for revealing the miRNA regulation mechanism in the interaction of sugarcane and SrMV, and also provides a resource for miRNAs and their predicted target genes for SrMV resistance improvement in sugarcane.
Pirins are nuclear bicupin proteins, encoded by genes that are one of several gene families that comprise the cupin superfamily in plants.
Plant hormone brassinosteroids (BRs) play key roles in plant adaptation to biotic stresses, including various pathogen infections. As a core factor in BR signaling, the transcription factor BRI1-EMS-SUPPRESSOR 1 (BES1) activates BR responses
Hexaploid-derived resistance genes exhibit complex inheritance and expression patterns in tetraploid backgrounds. This study aimed to characterize the inheritance patterns and genomic compatibilities of hexaploid-derived Fusarium head blight (FHB) resistance genes in tetraploid durum wheat (Triticum durum Desf.). Evaluation of FHB resistance for F
Abiotic stress can damage crops and reduce productivity. Among them, salt stress is related to water stress such as osmosis and ions, and like other abiotic stresses, it can affect the growth of plants by changing gene expressions. Investigating the profiles of gene expression under salt stress may help us understand molecular mechanisms of plants to cope with unfavorable conditions. To study salt tolerance in sorghum, physiological and comparative transcriptomic studies were performed using a Korean sorghum cultivar 'Sodamchal' which is considered sensitive to soil salinity. In this study, the samples were treated with two concentrations of NaCl [0 (control) and 150 mM], and the leaves and roots were harvested at 0, 3, and 9 days after the treatment. For the physiological study, the levels of anthocyanin, proline, reducing sugar, and chlorophyll were evaluated in the control and the treatment group at each sampling point. The results show that the cultivar 'Sodamchal' has salt-susceptible profiles. We also analyzed the transcription profile in the presence of 0 and 150 mM NaCl to confirm the candidate genes under the saline stress condition. Between the control and salt treatment, we found a total of 1506 and 1510 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the leaves and roots, respectively. We also built a gene co-expression network to determine the association of the candidate genes in terms of biological pathways. Through the co-expression network, genes related to salt stress such as AP2/ERF and Dehydrin were identified. This study provides the physiological and genic markers that could be used during intense salt stress in sorghum. These markers could be used to lay the foundation for the distribution of high-quality seeds that are tolerant to salt in the future.
Jasmonate ZIM-domain (JAZ) proteins are the key repressors of the jasmonic acid (JA) signal transduction pathway and play a crucial role in stress-related defense, phytohormone crosstalk and modulation of the growth-defense tradeoff. In this study, the sorghum genome was analyzed through genome-wide comparison and domain scan analysis, which led to the identification of 18 sorghum JAZ (SbJAZ) genes. All SbJAZ proteins possess the conserved TIFY and Jas domains and they formed a phylogenetic tree with five clusters related to the orthologs of other plant species. Similarly, evolutionary analysis indicated the duplication events as a major force of expansion of the SbJAZ genes and there was strong neutral and purifying selection going on. In silico analysis of the promoter region of the SbJAZ genes indicates that SbJAZ5, SbJAZ6, SbJAZ13, SbJAZ16 and SbJAZ17 are rich in stress-related cis-elements. In addition, expression profiling of the SbJAZ genes in response to phytohormones treatment (JA, ET, ABA, GA) and sugarcane aphid (SCA) was performed in two recombinant inbred lines (RILs) of sorghum, resistant (RIL 521) and susceptible (RIL 609) to SCA. Taken together, data generated from phytohormone expression and in silico analysis suggests the putative role of SbJAZ9 in JA-ABA crosstalk and SbJAZ16 in JA-ABA and JA-GA crosstalk to regulate certain physiological processes. Notably, upregulation of SbJAZ1, SbJAZ5, SbJAZ13 and SbJAZ16 in resistant RIL during JA treatment and SCA infestation suggests putative functions in stress-related defense and to balance the plant defense to promote growth. Overall, this report provides valuable insight into the organization and functional characterization of the sorghum JAZ gene family.
Drought is one of the main abiotic stresses influencing crop production all over the world. Membranes are sensitive to drought stress and easy to be degraded and modified. Lipidome and transcriptome analyses were applied to analyze the responses of membrane lipids to drought stress in two sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) cultivars, drought-sensitive cv. Hongyingzi and drought-tolerant cv. Kangsi. In total, 156 lipid compounds were identified and the contents of the predominant ones changed significantly under drought stress. Drought significantly decreased the unsaturation indices (UI) of digalactosyl-diacylglycerol (DGDG), monogalactosyl-diacylglycerol (MGDG), phosphatidylglycerol (PG) and phosphatidylcholine (PC) in both cultivars, except for insignificant changes of UI for DGDG in cv. Kangsi. Transcriptome sequencing analysis identified genes related to membrane lipid remodeling such as phospholipase D α1 (PLDα1), phospholipase D δ (PLDδ), and phospholipase A 2 (PLA2). By integrating transcriptome data and lipidome data, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) identified hub genes, transcription factors and the genes involved in lipid metabolism. Then, the protein and protein interaction (PPI) was analyzed using STRING and the possible candidate genes regulating membrane lipids under drought stress were obtained, including CCT2, CER1, DGK1, DGK5, EMB3174, KCS4, LCB2, PAH1, PLDP1, PKP-β1, and KCS11. The results from this study have the potential to accelerate the process to breed drought-tolerant sorghum lines.
Sweet sorghum is a C4 crop that can be grown for silage forage, fiber, syrup and fuel production. It is generally considered a salt-tolerant plant. However, the salt tolerance ability varies among genotypes, and the mechanism is not well known. To further uncover the salt tolerance mechanism, we performed comparative transcriptome analysis with RNA samples in two sweet sorghum genotypes showing different salt tolerance abilities (salt-tolerant line RIO and salt-sensitive line SN005) upon salt treatment. These response processes mainly focused on secondary metabolism, hormone signaling and stress response. The expression pattern cluster analysis showed that RIO-specific response genes were significantly enriched in the categories related to secondary metabolic pathways. GO enrichment analysis indicated that RIO responded earlier than SN005 in the 2 h after treatment. In addition, we identified more transcription factors (TFs) in RIO than SN005 that were specifically expressed differently in the first 2 h of salt treatment, and the pattern of TF change was obviously different. These results indicate that an early response in secondary metabolism might be essential for salt tolerance in sweet sorghum. In conclusion, we found that an early response, especially in secondary metabolism and hormone signaling, might be essential for salt tolerance in sweet sorghum.
The ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter family is one of the largest eukaryotic protein families. Its members play roles in numerous metabolic processes in plants by releasing energy for substrate transport across membranes through hydrolysis of ATP. Maize belongs to the monocotyledonous plant family, Gramineae, and is one of the most important food crops in the world. We constructed a phylogenetic tree with individual ABC genes from maize, rice, sorghum,
DNA methylation is a chromatin modification that plays an essential role in regulating gene expression and genome stability and it is typically associated with gene silencing and heterochromatin. Owing to its heritability, alterations in the patterns of DNA methylation have the potential to provide for epigenetic inheritance of traits. Contemporary epigenomic technologies provide information beyond sequence variation and could supply alternative sources of trait variation for improvement in crops such as sorghum. Yet, compared with other species such as maize and rice, the sorghum DNA methylome is far less well understood. The distribution of CG, CHG, and CHH methylation in the genome is different compared with other species. CG and CHG methylation levels peak around centromeric segments in the sorghum genome and are far more depleted in the gene dense chromosome arms. The genes regulating DNA methylation in sorghum are also yet to be functionally characterised; better understanding of their identity and functional analysis of DNA methylation machinery mutants in diverse genotypes will be important to better characterise the sorghum methylome. Here, we catalogue homologous genes encoding methylation regulatory enzymes in sorghum based on genes in Arabidopsis, maize, and rice. Discovering variation in the methylome may uncover epialleles that provide extra information to explain trait variation and has the potential to be applied in epigenome-wide association studies or genomic prediction. DNA methylation can also improve genome annotations and discover regulatory elements underlying traits. Thus, improving our knowledge of the sorghum methylome can enhance our understanding of the molecular basis of traits and may be useful to improve sorghum performance.
Certain Fusarium exometabolites have been reported to inhibit seed germination of the cereal-parasitizing witchweed, Striga hermonthica, in vitro. However, it is unknown if these exometabolites will consistently prevent S. hermonthica incidence in planta. The study screened a selection of known, highly phytotoxic Fusarium exometabolites, in identifying the most potent/efficient candidate (i.e., having the greatest effect at minimal concentration) to completely hinder S. hermonthica seed germination in vitro and incidence in planta, without affecting the host crop development and yield. In vitro germination assays of the tested Fusarium exometabolites (i.e., 1,4-naphthoquinone, equisetin, fusaric acid, hymeglusin, neosolaniol (Neo), T-2 toxin (T-2) and diacetoxyscirpenol (DAS)) as pre-Striga seed conditioning treatments at 1, 5, 10, 20, 50 and 100 µM, revealed that only DAS, out of all tested exometabolites, completely inhibited S. hermonthica seed germination at each concentration. It was followed by T-2 and Neo, as from 10 to 20 µM respectively. The remaining exometabolites reduced S. hermonthica seed germination as from 20 µM (P < 0. 0001). In planta assessment (in a S. hermonthica-sorghum parasitic system) of the exometabolites at 20 µM showed that, although, none of the tested exometabolites affected sorghum aboveground dry biomass (P > 0.05), only DAS completely prevented S. hermonthica incidence. Following a 14-d incubation of DAS in the planting soil substrate, bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and fungal 18S rRNA gene copy numbers of the soil microbial community were enhanced; which coincided with complete degradation of DAS in the substrate. Metabolic footprinting revealed that the S. hermonthica mycoherbicidal agent, Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. strigae (isolates Foxy-2, FK3), did not produce DAS; a discovery that corresponded with underexpression of key genes (Tri5, Tri4) necessary for Fusarium trichothecene biosynthesis (P < 0.0001). Among the tested Fusarium exometabolites, DAS exhibited the most promising herbicidal potential against S. hermonthica. Thus, it could serve as a new biocontrol agent for efficient S. hermonthica management. Further examination of DAS specific mode of action against the target weed S. hermonthica at low concentrations (≤ 20 µM), as opposed to non-target soil organisms, is required.
Silicon, one of the most prevalent elements in the soil, is beneficial for plant growth and defense against different stresses. The silicon transporter gene (Lsi) plays an important role in the uptake and transport of silicon in higher plants. In this study, a total of 32 Lsi genes, including 20 SsLsi in sugarcane wild species Saccharum spontaneum, 5 ShLsi in Saccharum hybrid cultivar R570 and 7 SbLsi in sugarcane related species Sorghum bicolor, were identified and classified into three groups. Bioinformatics analysis showed that instability, hydrophobicity, localization of cell membranes and vacuoles were the main features of the Lsi proteins. Whole genome and segmental duplication contributed to the main expansion of Lsi gene family. Collinearity analysis of the Lsi genes showed that S. spontanum and R570 had a collinear relationship with monocotyledonous plants S. bicolor and Oryza sativa, but not with dicotyledonous plants Arabidopsis thaliana and Vitis vinifera. The replicated Lsi genes were mainly subjected to strong selection pressure for purification. The diverse cis-regulatory elements in the promoter of SsLsi, ShLsi and SbLsi genes suggested that they were widely involved in the response of plants to various stresses and the regulation of the growth and development. Transcriptome data and real time quantitative PCR analysis showed that the Lsi genes exhibited different expression profiles in sugarcane tissues and under Sporisorium scitamineum, drought and cold stresses. In addition, the cDNA and genomic DNA sequences of ShLsi6 that was homologous to SsLsi1b gene was cloned from Saccharum hybrid cultivar ROC22. Transient expression analysis showed that, compared with the control, Nicotiana benthamiana leaves which overexpressed the ShLsi6 gene showed a high sensitivity after inoculation with tobacco pathogens Ralstonia solanacearum and Fusarium solani var. coeruleum. This study provides important information for further functional analysis of Lsi genes and resistant breeding in sugarcane.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade plays a crucial role in regulating many important biological processes in plants. Here, we identified and characterized eight MAPKK and 49 MAPKKK genes in sorghum and analyzed their differential expression under drought treatment; we also characterized 16 sorghum MAPK genes. RNA-seq analysis revealed that 10 MAPK cascade genes were involved in drought stress response at the transcriptome level in sorghum. Overexpression of SbMPK14 in Arabidopsis and maize resulted in hypersensitivity to drought by promoting water loss, indicating that SbMPK14 functions as a negative regulator of the drought response. Subsequent transcriptome analysis and qRT-PCR verification of maize SbMPK14 overexpression lines revealed that SbMPK14 likely increases plant drought sensitivity by suppressing the activity of specific ERF and WRKY transcription factors. This comprehensive study provides valuable insight into the mechanistic basis of MAPK cascade gene function and their responses to drought in sorghum.
Recent accumulation of genomic and transcriptomic information has facilitated genetic studies. Increasing evidence has demonstrated that translation is an important regulatory step, and the transcriptome does not necessarily reflect the profile of functional protein production. Deep sequencing of ribosome-protected mRNA fragments (ribosome profiling or Ribo-seq) has enabled genome-wide analysis of translation. Sorghum is a C4 cereal important not only as food but also as forage and a bioenergy resource. Its resistance to harsh environments has made it an agriculturally important research subject. Yet genome-wide translational profiles in sorghum are still missing. In this study, we took advantage of Ribo-seq and identified actively translated reading frames throughout the genome. We detected translation of 4,843 main open reading frames (ORFs) annotated in the sorghum reference genome version 3.1 and revealed a number of unannotated translational events. A comparison of the transcriptome and translatome between sorghums grown under normal and sulfur-deficient conditions revealed that gene expression is modulated independently at transcript and translation levels. Our study revealed the translational landscape of sorghum's response to sulfur and provides datasets that could serve as a fundamental resource to extend genetic research on sorghum, including studies on translational regulation.
As one of the largest transcription factor families in plants, the APETALA2/Ethylene-Responsive Factor (AP2/ERF) superfamily is involved in various biological processes and plays significant roles in plant growth, development and responses to various stresses. Although identification and characterization of AP2/ERF superfamily genes have been accomplished in many plant species, very little is known regarding the structure and function of AP2/ERF genes in maize. In this study, a total of 214 genes encoding ZmAP2/ERF proteins with complete AP2/ERF domain were eventually identified according to the AGPv4 version of the maize B73 genome. Based on the number of AP2/ERF domain and similarities of amino acid sequences among AP2/ERF proteins from Arabidopsis, rice and maize, all 214 putative ZmAP2/ERF proteins were categorized into three distinct families, including the AP2 family (44), the ERF family (166) and the RAV family (4), respectively. Among them, the ERF family was further subdivided into two diverse subfamilies, including the DREB and ERF subfamilies with 61 and 105 members, respectively. Further, based on phylogenetic analysis, the members of DREB and ERF subfamilies were subdivided into four (Group I-IV) and eight (Group V-XII) groups, respectively. The characteristics of exon-intron structure of these putative ZmAP2/ERF genes and conserved protein motifs of their encoded ZmAP2/ERF proteins were also presented respectively, which was in accordance with the results of group classification. Promoter analysis suggested that ZmAP2/ERF genes shared many stress- and hormone-related cis-regulatory elements. Gene duplication and synteny analysis revealed that tandem or segmental duplication and purifying selection might play significant roles in evolution and functional differentiation of AP2/ERF superfamily genes among three various gramineous species (maize, rice and sorghum). Using RNA-seq data, transcriptome analysis indicated that the majority of ZmAP2/ERF genes displayed differential expression patterns at different developmental stages of maize. In addition, the following analyses of co-expression network among ZmAP2/ERF genes and protein protein interaction between ZmAP2 and ZmERF proteins further enabled us to understand the regulatory relationship among members of the AP2/ERF superfamily in maize. Furthermore, by quantitative real-time PCR analysis, twenty-seven selected ZmAP2/ERF genes were further confirmed to respond to three different abiotic stresses, suggesting their potential roles in various abiotic stress responses. Collectively, these results revealed that these ZmAP2/ERF genes play essential roles in abiotic stress tolerance. Taken together, the present study will serve to present an important theoretical basis for further exploring the function and regulatory mechanism of ZmAP2/ERF genes in the growth, development, and adaptation to abiotic stresses in maize.
Thaumatin-like proteins (TLPs) are related to pathogenesis-related-5 (PR-5) family and involved in stress response. Herein, a total of 93
Genetic dissection of forage yield traits is critical to the development of sorghum as a forage crop. In the present study, association mapping was performed with 85,585 SNP markers on four forage yield traits, namely plant height (PH), tiller number (TN), stem diameter (SD), and fresh weight per plant (FW) among 245 sorghum accessions evaluated in four environments. A total of 338 SNPs or quantitative trait nucleotides (QTNs) were associated with the four traits, and 21 of these QTNs were detected in at least two environments, including four QTNs for PH, ten for TN, six for SD, and one for FW. To identify candidate genes, dynamic transcriptome expression profiling was performed at four stages of sorghum development. One hundred and six differentially expressed genes (DEGs) that were enriched in hormone signal transduction pathways were found in all stages. Weighted gene correlation network analysis for PH and SD indicated that eight modules were significantly correlated with PH and that three modules were significantly correlated with SD. The blue module had the highest positive correlation with PH and SD, and the turquoise module had the highest negative correlation with PH and SD. Eight candidate genes were identified through the integration of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and RNA sequencing. Sobic.004G143900, an indole-3-glycerol phosphate synthase gene that is involved in indoleacetic acid biosynthesis, was down-regulated as sorghum plants grew in height and was identified in the blue module, and Sobic.003G375100, an SD candidate gene, encoded a DNA repair RAD52-like protein 1 that plays a critical role in DNA repair-linked cell cycle progression. These findings demonstrate that the integrative analysis of omics data is a promising approach to identify candidate genes for complex traits.
Australian native species of sorghum contain negligible amounts of dhurrin in their leaves and the cyanogenesis process is regulated differently under water-stress in comparison to domesticated sorghum species. Cyanogenesis in forage sorghum is a major concern in agriculture as the leaves of domesticated sorghum are potentially toxic to livestock, especially at times of drought which induces increased production of the cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin. The wild sorghum species endemic to Australia have a negligible content of dhurrin in the above ground tissues and thus represent a potential resource for key agricultural traits like low toxicity. In this study we investigated the differential expression of cyanogenesis related genes in the leaf tissue of the domesticated species Sorghum bicolor and the Australian native wild species Sorghum macrospermum grown in glasshouse-controlled water-stress conditions using RNA-Seq analysis to analyse gene expression. The study identified genes, including those in the cyanogenesis pathway, that were differentially regulated in response to water-stress in domesticated and wild sorghum. In the domesticated sorghum, dhurrin content was significantly higher compared to that in the wild sorghum and increased with stress and decreased with age whereas in wild sorghum the dhurrin content remained negligible. The key genes in dhurrin biosynthesis, CYP79A1, CYP71E1 and UGT85B1, were shown to be highly expressed in S. bicolor. DHR and HNL encoding the dhurrinase and α-hydroxynitrilase catalysing bio-activation of dhurrin were also highly expressed in S. bicolor. Analysis of the differences in expression of cyanogenesis related genes between domesticated and wild sorghum species may allow the use of these genetic resources to produce more acyanogenic varieties in the future.
Sorghum damping-off, caused by Fusarium solani (Mart.) Sacc., is a serious disease which causes economic loss in sorghum production. In this study, antagonistic activity of lavender essential oil (EO) at 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.25, 1.5, and 1.6% against F. solani was studied in vitro. Their effects on regulation of three SbWRKY transcription factors, the response factor JERF3 and eight defense-related genes, which mediate different signaling pathways, in sorghum were investigated. Effects of application under greenhouse conditions were also evaluated. The results showed that lavender EO possesses potent antifungal activity against F. solani. A complete inhibition in the fungal growth was recorded for lavender EO at 1.6%. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometric analysis revealed that EO antifungal activity is most likely attributed to linalyl anthranilate, α-terpineol, eucalyptol, α-Pinene, and limonene. Observations using transmission electron microscopy revealed many abnormalities in the ultrastructures of the fungal mycelium as a response to treating with lavender EO, indicating that multi-mechanisms contributed to their antagonistic behavior. Results obtained from Real-time PCR investigations demonstrated that the genes studied were overexpressed, to varying extents in response to lavender EO. However, SbWRKY1 was the highest differentially expressed gene followed by JERF3, which suggest they play primary role(s) in synchronously organizing the transcription-regulatory-networks enhancing the plant resistance. Under greenhouse conditions, treating of sorghum grains with lavender EO at 1.5% prior to infection significantly reduced disease severity. Moreover, the growth parameters evaluated, the activities of antioxidant enzymes, and total phenolic and flavonoid contents were all enhanced. In contrast, lipid peroxidation was highly reduced. Results obtained from this study support the possibility of using lavender EO for control of sorghum damping-off. However, field evaluation is highly needed prior to any usage recommendation.
Gramene is an integrated bioinformatics resource for accessing, visualizing, and comparing plant genomes and biological pathways. Originally targeting grasses, Gramene has grown to host annotations for over 90 plant genomes including agronomically important cereals (e.g., maize, sorghum, wheat, teff), fruits and vegetables (e.g., apple, watermelon, clementine, tomato, cassava), specialty crops (e.g., coffee, olive tree, pistachio, almond), and plants of special or emerging interest (e.g., cotton, tobacco, cannabis, or hemp). For some species, the resource includes multiple varieties of the same species, which has paved the road for the creation of species-specific pan-genome browsers. The resource also features plant research models, including Arabidopsis and C4 warm-season grasses and brassicas, as well as other species that fill phylogenetic gaps for plant evolution studies. Its strength derives from the application of a phylogenetic framework for genome comparison and the use of ontologies to integrate structural and functional annotation data. This chapter outlines system requirements for end-users and database hosting, data types and basic navigation within Gramene, and provides examples of how to (1) explore Gramene's search results, (2) explore gene-centric comparative genomics data visualizations in Gramene, and (3) explore genetic variation associated with a gene locus. This is the first publication describing in detail Gramene's integrated search interface-intended to provide a simplified entry portal for the resource's main data categories (genomic location, phylogeny, gene expression, pathways, and external references) to the most complete and up-to-date set of plant genome and pathway annotations.
Global gene co-expression networks (GCNs) are powerful tools for functional genomics whereby putative functions and regulatory mechanisms can be inferred by gene co-expression. Cereal crops, such as Hordeum vulgare (barley) and Sorghum bicolor (sorghum), are among the most important plants to civilization. However, co-expression network tools for these plants are lacking. Here, we have constructed global GCNs for barley and sorghum using existing RNA-seq data sets. Meta-information was manually curated and categorized by tissue type to also build tissue-specific GCNs. To enable GCN searching and visualization, we implemented a website and database named PlantNexus. PlantNexus is freely available at https://plantnexus.ohio.edu/.
A WRKY transcription factor identified through forward genetics is associated with sorghum resistance to the sugarcane aphid and through heterologous expression reduces aphid populations in multiple plant species. Crop plant resistance to insect pests is based on genetically encoded traits which often display variability across diverse germplasm. In a comparatively recent event, a predominant sugarcane aphid (SCA: Melanaphis sacchari) biotype has become a significant agronomic pest of grain sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). To uncover candidate genes underlying SCA resistance, we used a forward genetics approach combining the genetic diversity present in the Sorghum Association Panel (SAP) and the Bioenergy Association Panel (BAP) for a genome-wide association study, employing an established SCA damage rating. One major association was found on Chromosome 9 within the WRKY transcription factor 86 (SbWRKY86). Transcripts encoding SbWRKY86 were previously identified as upregulated in SCA-resistant germplasm and the syntenic ortholog in maize accumulates following Rhopalosiphum maidis infestation. Analyses of SbWRKY86 transcripts displayed patterns of increased SCA-elicited accumulation in additional SCA-resistant sorghum lines. Heterologous expression of SbWRKY86 in both tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) and Arabidopsis resulted in reduced population growth of green peach aphid (Myzus persicae). Comparative RNA-Seq analyses of Arabidopsis lines expressing 35S:SbWRKY86-YFP identified changes in expression for a small network of genes associated with carbon-nitrogen metabolism and callose deposition, both contributing factors to defense against aphids. As a test of altered plant responses, 35S:SbWRKY86-YFP Arabidopsis lines were activated using the flagellin epitope elicitor, flg22, and displayed significant increases in callose deposition. Our findings indicate that both heterologous and increased native expression of the transcription factor SbWRKY86 contributes to reduced aphid levels in diverse plant models.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), the fifth most widely grown cereal crop globally, provides food security for millions of people. Anthracnose caused by the fungus Colletotrichum sublineola is a major disease of sorghum worldwide. We discovered a major fungal resistance locus in sorghum composed of the nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat receptor gene ANTHRACNOSE RESISTANCE GENE1 (ARG1) that is completely nested in an intron of a cis-natural antisense transcript (NAT) gene designated CARRIER OF ARG1 (CARG). Susceptible genotypes express CARG and two alternatively spliced ARG1 transcripts encoding truncated proteins lacking the leucine-rich repeat domains. In resistant genotypes, elevated expression of an intact allele of ARG1, attributed to the loss of CARG transcription and the presence of miniature inverted-repeat transposable element sequences, resulted in broad-spectrum resistance to fungal pathogens with distinct virulence strategies. Increased ARG1 expression in resistant genotypes is also associated with higher histone H3K4 and H3K36 methylation. In susceptible genotypes, lower ARG1 expression is associated with reduced H3K4 and H3K36 methylation and increased expression of NATs of CARG. The repressive chromatin state associated with H3K9me2 is low in CARG-expressing genotypes within the CARG exon and higher in genotypes with low CARG expression. Thus, ARG1 is regulated by multiple mechanisms and confers broad-spectrum, strong resistance to fungal pathogens.
SorghumBase provides a community portal that integrates genetic, genomic, and breeding resources for sorghum germplasm improvement. Public research and development in agriculture rely on proper data and resource sharing within stakeholder communities. For plant breeders, agronomists, molecular biologists, geneticists, and bioinformaticians, centralizing desirable data into a user-friendly hub for crop systems is essential for successful collaborations and breakthroughs in germplasm development. Here, we present the SorghumBase web portal ( https://www.sorghumbase.org ), a resource for the sorghum research community. SorghumBase hosts a wide range of sorghum genomic information in a modular framework, built with open-source software, to provide a sustainable platform. This initial release of SorghumBase includes: (1) five sorghum reference genome assemblies in a pan-genome browser; (2) genetic variant information for natural diversity panels and ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS)-induced mutant populations; (3) search interface and integrated views of various data types; (4) links supporting interconnectivity with other repositories including genebank, QTL, and gene expression databases; and (5) a content management system to support access to community news and training materials. SorghumBase offers sorghum investigators improved data collation and access that will facilitate the growth of a robust research community to support genomics-assisted breeding.
Carbon-based nanomaterials (CBNs) such as carbon nanotubes (CNTs) and graphene can be beneficial to crops exposed to abiotic stresses such as drought and high salinity. Our findings suggest that the improvement observed in stressed crops treated with CBNs can be associated with CBN-induced restoration of gene expression. When subjected to salt stress, sorghum seedlings showed modified expression in 51 stress-related genes. The introduction of CNTs or graphene into the salty growth medium resulted in the restoration of the expression of 29 affected genes, resembling that of untreated sorghum seedlings. RNA-Seq approach allowed us to analyze the total gene expression of CBN-treated rice exposed to water-deficit stress and gene expression of CBN-treated tomato plants exposed to salt stress. The application of CNTs or graphene resulted in full or partial restoration of expression of 458 and 1620 genes, respectively, affected by water-deficit stress in rice. Similarly, CBN treatment of NaCl-exposed tomato seedlings led to full or partial restoration of 1639 and 1391 salt-affected transcripts, respectively. Of the genes with restored expression, many of them were identified as major stress-response genes and major transcriptional factors (aquaporins, dehydrins, and heat shock proteins/co-chaperons,
The shifts in adaptive strategies revealed by ecological succession and the mechanisms that facilitate these shifts are fundamental to ecology. These adaptive strategies could be particularly important in communities of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) mutualistic with sorghum, where strong AMF succession replaces initially ruderal species with competitive ones and where the strongest plant response to drought is to manage these AMF. Although most studies of agriculturally important fungi focus on parasites, the mutualistic symbionts, AMF, constitute a research system of human-associated fungi whose relative simplicity and synchrony are conducive to experimental ecology. First, we hypothesize that, when irrigation is stopped to mimic drought, competitive AMF species should be replaced by AMF species tolerant to drought stress. We then, for the first time, correlate AMF abundance and host plant transcription to test two novel hypotheses about the mechanisms behind the shift from ruderal to competitive AMF. Surprisingly, despite imposing drought stress, we found no stress-tolerant AMF, probably due to our agricultural system having been irrigated for nearly six decades. Remarkably, we found strong and differential correlation between the successional shift from ruderal to competitive AMF and sorghum genes whose products (i) produce and release strigolactone signals, (ii) perceive mycorrhizal-lipochitinoligosaccharide (Myc-LCO) signals, (iii) provide plant lipid and sugar to AMF, and (iv) import minerals and water provided by AMF. These novel insights frame new hypotheses about AMF adaptive evolution and suggest a rationale for selecting AMF to reduce inputs and maximize yields in commercial agriculture.
The coronatine insensitive 1 (COI1) gene is the core member of jasmonate signaling pathway, which is closely related to plant biotic and abiotic resistance. However, there have been no reports on COI1 in sugarcane (Sacharum spp.). Hence, systematically investigating the characteristics of the COI1 multigene family in sugarcane can provide a means to study and manipulate the jasmonic acid signaling pathway. A total of 156 COI1 proteins were obtained from the genomes of 19 land plants, while none were obtained from five algae species. A phylogenetic tree demonstrated that these COI1 proteins were classified into four groups, while 31 proteins of SsCOI1 from Saccharum spontaneum, SbCOI1 from Sorghum bicolor, and ShCOI1 from Saccharum spp. hybrid cultivar R570 clustered into three groups. Synteny analysis and duplication patterns revealed that COI1 genes expanded through various genome replication events and could have experienced strong purifying selective pressure during evolution in S. spontaneum, S. bicolor, and R570. An investigation of cis-acting elements suggests that COI1 genes may be involved in plant growth and development and response to various stresses. Expression analysis implied that 21 SsCOI1 genes were constitutively expressed, and had positive responses to drought, cold, and Sporisorium scitamineum stresses with different expression patterns. Among them, seven SsCOI1 haplotype genes may play different roles in response to methyl jasmonate. Furthermore, the ShCOI1-4, ShCOI1-5, and ShCOI1-6 genes were cloned from Saccharum spp. hybrid cultivar ROC22. Real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) analysis demonstrated that these three ShCOI1 genes had divergent expression profiles in response to salicylic acid, abscisic acid, polyethylene glycol, cold, and S. scitamineum. These results suggest that COI1 genes may act in sugarcane growth, development, and response to various stresses via different regulatory mechanisms, which laying a foundation for the functional identification of the sugarcane COI1 gene.
Histone deacetylases (HDACs) play an important role in the regulation of gene expression, which is indispensable in plant growth, development, and responses to environmental stresses. In Arabidopsis and rice, the molecular functions of HDACs have been well-described. However, systematic analysis of the HDAC gene family and gene expression in response to biotic and abiotic stresses has not been reported for sorghum. We conducted a systematic analysis of the sorghum HDAC gene family and identified 19 SbHDACs mainly distributed on eight chromosomes. Phylogenetic tree analysis of SbHDACs showed that the gene family was divided into three subfamilies: RPD3/HDA1, SIR2, and HD2. Tissue-specific expression results showed that SbHDACs displayed different expression patterns in different tissues, indicating that these genes may perform different functions in growth and development. The expression pattern of SbHDACs under different stresses (high and low temperature, drought, osmotic and salt) and pathogen-associated molecular model (PAMPs) elf18, chitin, and flg22) indicated that SbHDAC genes may participate in adversity responses and biological stress defenses. Overexpression of SbHDA1, SbHDA3, SbHDT2 and SbSRT2 in Escherichia coli promoted the growth of recombinant cells under abiotic stress. Interestingly, we also showed that the sorghum acetylation level was enhanced when plants were under cold, heat, drought, osmotic and salt stresses. The findings will help us to understand the HDAC gene family in sorghum, and illuminate the molecular mechanism of the responses to abiotic and biotic stresses. We have identified and classified 19 HDAC genes in sorghum. Our data provides insights into the evolution of the HDAC gene family and further support the hypothesis that these genes are important for the plant responses to abiotic and biotic stresses.
Dehydration proteins (dehydrins, DHNs) confer tolerance to water-stress deficit in plants. We performed a comparative genomics and evolutionary study of DHN genes in four model
Salt stress is one of the major significant restrictions that hamper plant development and agriculture ecosystems worldwide. Novel climate-adapted cultivars and stress tolerance-enhancing molecules are increasingly appreciated to mitigate the detrimental impacts of adverse stressful conditions. Sorghum is a valuable source of food and a potential model for exploring and understanding salt stress dynamics in cereals and for gaining a better understanding of their physiological pathways. Herein, we evaluate the antioxidant scavengers, photosynthetic regulation, and molecular mechanism of ion exclusion transporters in sorghum genotypes under saline conditions. A pot experiment was conducted in two sorghum genotypes viz. SSG 59-3 and PC-5 in a climate-controlled greenhouse under different salt concentrations (60, 80, 100, and 120 mM NaCl). Salinity drastically affected the photosynthetic machinery by reducing the accumulation of chlorophyll pigments and carotenoids. SSG 59-3 alleviated the adverse effects of salinity by suppressing oxidative stress (H
The two-component signal transduction system (TCS) acts in a variety of physiological processes in lower organisms and has emerged as a key signaling system in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes, including plants. TCS genes assist plants in processes such as stress resistance, cell division, nutrition signaling, leaf senescence, and chloroplast division. In plants, this system is composed of three types of proteins: response regulators (RRs), histidine kinases (HKs), and histidine phosphotransfer proteins (HPs). We aimed to study the
Droughts negatively affect sorghum's productivity and nutritional quality. Across its diversity centers, however, there exist resilient genotypes that function differently under drought stress at various levels, including molecular and physiological. Sorghum is an economically important and a staple food crop for over half a billion people in developing countries, mostly in arid and semi-arid regions where drought stress is a major limiting factor. Although sorghum is generally considered tolerant, drought stress still significantly hampers its productivity and nutritional quality across its major cultivation areas. Hence, understanding both the effects of the stress and plant response is indispensable for improving drought tolerance of the crop. This review aimed at enhancing our understanding and provide more insights on drought tolerance in sorghum as a contribution to the development of climate resilient sorghum cultivars. We summarized findings on the effects of drought on the growth and development of sorghum including osmotic potential that impedes germination process and embryonic structures, photosynthetic rates, and imbalance in source-sink relations that in turn affect seed filling often manifested in the form of substantial reduction in grain yield and quality. Mechanisms of sorghum response to drought-stress involving morphological, physiological, and molecular alterations are presented. We highlighted the current understanding about the genetic basis of drought tolerance in sorghum, which is important for maximizing utilization of its germplasm for development of improved cultivars. Furthermore, we discussed interactions of drought with other abiotic stresses and biotic factors, which may increase the vulnerability of the crop or enhance its tolerance to drought stress. Based on the research reviewed in this article, it appears possible to develop locally adapted cultivars of sorghum that are drought tolerant and nutrient rich using modern plant breeding techniques.
Sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) is an important economic crop for both sugar and biomass, the yields of which are negatively affected by flowering. The molecular mechanisms controlling flowering in sugarcane are nevertheless poorly understood. RNA-seq data analysis and database searches have enabled a comprehensive description of the PEBP gene family in sugarcane. It is shown to consist of at least 13 FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT)-like genes, two MOTHER OF FT AND TFL (MFT)-like genes, and four TERMINAL FLOWER (TFL)-like genes. As expected, these genes all show very high homology to their corresponding genes in Sorghum, and also to FT-like, MFT-like, and TFL-like genes in maize, rice, and Arabidopsis. Functional analysis in Arabidopsis showed that the sugarcane ScFT3 gene can rescue the late flowering phenotype of the Arabidopsis ft-10 mutant, whereas ScFT5 cannot. High expression levels of ScFT3 in leaves of short day-induced sugarcane plants coincided with initial stages of floral induction in the shoot apical meristem as shown by histological analysis of meristem dissections. This suggests that ScFT3 is likely to play a role in floral induction in sugarcane; however, other sugarcane FT-like genes may also be involved in the flowering process.
Renewable fuels are needed to replace fossil fuels in the immediate future. Lignocellulosic bioenergy crops provide a renewable alternative that sequesters atmospheric carbon. To prevent displacement of food crops, it would be advantageous to grow biofuel crops on marginal lands. These lands will likely face more frequent and extreme drought conditions than conventional agricultural land, so it is crucial to see how proposed bioenergy crops fare under these conditions and how that may affect lignocellulosic biomass composition and saccharification properties. We found that while drought impacts the plant cell wall of
Sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] has been gaining attention as a feedstock for biomass energy production. While it is obvious that nitrogen (N) supply significantly affects sorghum growth and biomass accumulation, our knowledge is still limited regarding the effect of N on the biomass quality of sorghum, such as the contents and structures of lignin and other cell wall components. Therefore, in this study, we investigated the effects of N supply on the structure and composition of sorghum cell walls. The cell walls of hydroponically cultured sorghum seedlings grown under sufficient or deficient N conditions were analyzed using chemical, two-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance, gene expression, and immunohistochemical methods. We found that the level of N supply considerably affected the cell wall structure and composition of sorghum seedlings. Limitation of N led to a decrease in the syringyl/guaiacyl lignin unit ratio and an increase in the amount and alteration of tissue distribution of several hemicelluloses, including mixed linkage (1 → 3), (1 → 4)-β-D-glucan, and arabinoxylan. At least some of these cell wall alterations could be associated with changes in gene expression. Nitrogen status is thus one of the factors affecting the cell wall properties of sorghum seedlings.
Transcription factors are regulatory proteins known to modulate gene expression. These are the critical component of signaling pathways and help in mitigating various developmental and stress responses. Among them, bZIP, BBR, and BZR transcription factor families are well known to play a crucial role in regulating growth, development, and defense responses. However, limited data is available on these transcription factors in Triticum aestivum. In this study, bZIP, BBR, and BZR sequences from Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa, Oryza barthii, Oryza brachyantha, T. aestivum, Triticum urartu, Sorghum bicolor, Zea mays were retrieved, and dendrograms were constructed to analyze the evolutionary relatedness among them. The sequences clustered into one group indicated a degree of evolutionary correlation highlighting the common lineage of cereal grains. This analysis also exhibited that these genes were highly conserved among studied monocots emphasizing their common ancestry. Furthermore, these transcription factor genes were evaluated for envisaging conserved motifs, gene structure, and subcellular localization in T. aestivum. This comprehensive computational analysis has provided an insight into transcription factor evolution that can also be useful in developing approaches for future functional characterization of these genes in T. aestivum. Furthermore, the data generated can be beneficial in future for genetic manipulation of economically important plants.
Developing embryo and endosperm of sorghum show substantial and multifaceted differences in gene expression and alternative splicing, which are potentially relevant to heterosis. Differential regulation of gene expression and alternative splicing (AS) are major molecular mechanisms dictating plant growth and development, as well as underpinning heterosis in F1 hybrids. Here, using deep RNA-sequencing we analyzed differences in genome-wide gene expression and AS between developing embryo and endosperm, and between F1 hybrids and their pure-line parents in sorghum. We uncover dramatic differences in both gene expression and AS between embryo and endosperm with respect to gene features and functions, which are consistent with the fundamentally different biological roles of the two tissues. Accordingly, F1 hybrids showed substantial and multifaceted differences in gene expression and AS compared with their pure-line parents, again with clear tissue specificities including extents of difference, genes involved and functional enrichments. Our results provide useful transcriptome resources as well as novel insights for further elucidation of seed yield heterosis in sorghum and related crops.
In plants, α-Lipoic acid (ALA) is considered a dithiol short-chain fatty acid with several strong antioxidative properties. To date, no data are conclusive regarding its effects as an exogenous application on salt stressed sorghum plants. In this study, we investigated the effect of 20 µM ALA as a foliar application on salt-stressed sorghum plants (0, 75 and 150 mM as NaCl). Under saline conditions, the applied-ALA significantly (
Salt stress is one of the major constraints affecting plant growth and agricultural productivity worldwide. Sorghum is a valuable food source and a potential model for studying and better understanding the salt stress mechanics in the cereals and obtaining a more comprehensive knowledge of their cellular responses. Herein, we examined the effects of salinity on reserve mobilization, antioxidant potential, and expression analysis of starch synthesis genes. Our findings show that germination percentage is adversely affected by all salinity levels, more remarkably at 120 mM (36% reduction) and 140 mM NaCl (46% reduction) than in the control. Lipid peroxidation increased in salt-susceptible genotypes (PC-5: 2.88 and CSV 44F: 2.93 nmloe/g.FW), but not in tolerant genotypes. SSG 59-3 increased activities of α-amylase, and protease enzymes corroborated decreased starch and protein content, respectively. SSG 59-3 alleviated adverse effects of salinity by suppressing oxidative stress (H
Cereal-associated lactobacilli resist antimicrobial plant secondary metabolites. This study aimed to identify multi-drug-resistance (MDR) transporters in isolates from mahewu, a Zimbabwean fermented cereal beverage, and to determine whether these MDR-transporters relate to resistance against phenolic compounds and antibiotics. Comparative genomic analyses indicated that all seven mahewu isolates harbored multiple MATE and MFS MDR proteins. Strains of Lactiplantibacillus plantarum and Limosilactobacillus fermentum encoded for the same gene, termed mahewu phenolics resistance gene mprA, with more than 99% nucleotide identity, suggesting horizontal gene transfer. Strains of Lp. plantarum were more resistant than strains of Lm. fermentum to phenolic acids, other antimicrobials and antibiotics but the origins of strains were not related to resistance. The resistance of several strains exceeded EFSA thresholds for several antibiotics. Analysis of gene expression in one strain each of Lp. plantarum and Lm. fermentum revealed that at least one MDR gene in each strain was over-expressed during growth in wheat, sorghum and millet relative to growth in MRS5 broth. In addition, both strains over-expressed a phenolic acid reductase. The results suggest that diverse lactobacilli in mahewu share MDR transporters acquired by lateral gene transfer, and that these transporters mediate resistance to secondary plant metabolites and antibiotics.
In plants, histone modification (HM) genes participate in various developmental and defense processes. Gramineae plants (e.g., Triticum aestivum, Hordeum vulgare, Sorghum bicolor, Setaria italica, Setaria viridis, and Zea mays) are important crop species worldwide. However, little information on HM genes is in Gramineae species. Here, we identified 245 TaHMs, 72 HvHMs, 84 SbHMs, 93 SvHMs, 90 SiHMs, and 90 ZmHMs in the above six Gramineae species, respectively. Detailed information on their chromosome locations, conserved domains, phylogenetic trees, synteny, promoter elements, and gene structures were determined. Among the HMs, most motifs were conserved, but several unique motifs were also identified. Our results also suggested that gene and genome duplications potentially impacted the evolution and expansion of HMs in wheat. The number of orthologous gene pairs between rice (Oryza sativa) and each Gramineae species was much greater than that between Arabidopsis and each Gramineae species, indicating that the dicotyledons shared common ancestors. Moreover, all identified HM gene pairs likely underwent purifying selection based on to their non-synonymous (Ka)/synonymous (Ks) nucleotide substitutions. Using published transcriptome data, changes in TaHM gene expression in developing wheat grains treated with brassinosteroid, brassinazole, or activated charcoal were investigated. In addition, the transcription models of ZmHMs in developing maize seeds and after gibberellin treatment were also identified. We also examined plant stress responses and found that heat, drought, salt, insect feeding, nitrogen, and cadmium stress influenced many TaHMs, and drought altered the expression of several ZmHMs. Thus, these findings indicate their important functions in plant growth and stress adaptations. Based on a comprehensive analysis of Gramineae HMs, we found that TaHMs play potential roles in grain development, brassinosteroid- and brassinazole-mediated root growth, activated charcoal-mediated root and leaf growth, and biotic and abiotic adaptations. Furthermore, ZmHMs likely participate in seed development, gibberellin-mediated leaf growth, and drought adaptation.
Photosynthetic efficiency and sink demand are tightly correlated with rates of phloem loading, where maintaining low cytosolic sugar concentrations is paramount to prevent the downregulation of photosynthesis. Sugars Will Eventually be Exported Transporters (SWEETs) are thought to have a pivotal role in the apoplastic phloem loading of C
Developmental and organ-specific expression of genes in dhurrin biosynthesis, bio-activation, and recycling offers dynamic metabolic responses optimizing growth and defence responses in Sorghum. Plant defence models evaluate the costs and benefits of resource investments at different stages in the life cycle. Poor understanding of the molecular regulation of defence deployment and remobilization hampers accuracy of the predictions. Cyanogenic glucosides, such as dhurrin are phytoanticipins that release hydrogen cyanide upon bio-activation. In this study, RNA-seq was used to investigate the expression of genes involved in the biosynthesis, bio-activation and recycling of dhurrin in Sorghum bicolor. Genes involved in dhurrin biosynthesis were highly expressed in all young developing vegetative tissues (leaves, leaf sheath, roots, stems), tiller buds and imbibing seeds and showed gene specific peaks of expression in leaves during diel cycles. Genes involved in dhurrin bio-activation were expressed early in organ development with organ-specific expression patterns. Genes involved in recycling were expressed at similar levels in the different organ during development, although post-floral initiation when nutrients are remobilized for grain filling, expression of GSTL1 decreased > tenfold in leaves and NITB2 increased > tenfold in stems. Results are consistent with the establishment of a pre-emptive defence in young tissues and regulated recycling related to organ senescence and increased demand for nitrogen during grain filling. This detailed characterization of the transcriptional regulation of dhurrin biosynthesis, bioactivation and remobilization genes during organ and plant development will aid elucidation of gene regulatory networks and signalling pathways that modulate gene expression and dhurrin levels. In-depth knowledge of dhurrin metabolism could improve the yield, nitrogen use efficiency and stress resilience of Sorghum.
Sorghum research has entered an exciting and fruitful era due to the genetic, genomic, and breeding resources that are now available to researchers and plant breeders. As the world faces the challenges of a rising population and a changing global climate, new agricultural solutions will need to be developed to address the food and fiber needs of the future. To that end, sorghum will be an invaluable crop species as it is a stress-resistant C
SQUAMOSA promoter binding proteins (SBPs) genes encode a family of plant-specific transcription factors involved in various growth and development processes, including flower and fruit development, leaf initiation, phase transition, and embryonic development. The SBP gene family has been identified and characterized in many species, but no systematic analysis of the SBP gene family has been carried out in sugarcane. In the present study, a total of 50 sequences for 30 SBP genes were identified by the genome-wide analysis and designated SsSBP1 to SsSBP30 based on their chromosomal distribution. According to the phylogenetic tree, gene structure and motif features, the SsSBP genes were classified into eight groups (I to VIII). By synteny analysis, 27 homologous gene pairs existed in SsSBP genes, and 37 orthologous gene pairs between sugarcane and sorghum were found. Expression analysis in different tissues, including vegetative and reproductive organs, showed differential expression patterns of SsSBP genes, indicating their functional diversity in the various developmental processes. Additionally, 22 SsSBP genes were predicted as the potential targets of miR156. The differential expression pattern of miR156 exhibited a negative correlation of transcription levels between miR156 and the SsSBP gene in different tissues. The sugarcane genome possesses 30 SsSBP genes, and they shared similar gene structures and motif features in their subfamily. Based on the transcriptional and qRT-PCR analysis, most SsSBP genes were found to regulate the leaf initial and female reproductive development. The present study comprehensively and systematically analyzed SBP genes in sugarcane and provided a foundation for further studies on the functional characteristics of SsSBP genes during different development processes.
Omics technologies, namely genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, and phenomics, are becoming an integral part of virtually every commercial cereal crop breeding program, as they provide substantial dividends per unit time in both pre-breeding and breeding phases. Continuous advances in omics assure time efficiency and cost benefits to improve cereal crops. This review provides a comprehensive overview of the established omics methods in five major cereals, namely rice, sorghum, maize, barley, and bread wheat. We cover the evolution of technologies in each omics section independently and concentrate on their use to improve economically important agronomic as well as biotic and abiotic stress-related traits. Advancements in the (1) identification, mapping, and sequencing of molecular/structural variants; (2) high-density transcriptomics data to study gene expression patterns; (3) global and targeted proteome profiling to study protein structure and interaction; (4) metabolomic profiling to quantify organ-level, small-density metabolites, and their composition; and (5) high-resolution, high-throughput, image-based phenomics approaches are surveyed in this review.
Serotonin (Ser) and melatonin (Mel) serve as master regulators of plant growth and development by influencing diverse cellular processes. The enzymes namely, tryptophan decarboxylase (
Salinity stress has become a significant concern to global food security. Revealing the mechanisms that enable plants to survive under salinity has immense significance. Sorghum has increasingly attracted researchers interested in understanding the survival and adaptation strategies to high salinity. However, systematic analysis of the DEGs (differentially expressed genes) and their relative expression has not been reported in sorghum under salt stress. The de novo transcriptomic analysis of sorghum under different salinity levels from 60 to 120 mM NaCl was generated using Illumina HiSeq. Approximately 323.49 million high-quality reads, with an average contig length of 1145 bp, were assembled de novo. On average, 62% of unigenes were functionally annotated to known proteins. These DEGs were mainly involved in several important metabolic processes, such as carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, cell wall biogenesis, photosynthesis, and hormone signaling. SSG 59-3 alleviated the adverse effects of salinity by suppressing oxidative stress (H
Mota Maradi is a sorghum line that exhibits holistic salinity tolerance mechanisms, making it a viable potential donor in breeding efforts for improved sorghum lines. High soil salinity is one of the global challenges for crop growth and productivity. Understanding the salinity tolerance mechanisms in crops is necessary for genetic breeding of salinity-tolerant crops. In this study, physiological and molecular mechanisms in sorghum were identified through a comparative analysis between a Nigerien salinity-tolerant sorghum landrace, Mota Maradi, and the reference sorghum line, BTx623. Significant differences on physiological performances were observed, particularly on growth and biomass gain, photosynthetic rate, and the accumulation of Na
Transcription factors, including trihelix transcription factors, play vital roles in various growth and developmental processes and in abiotic stress responses in plants. The trihelix gene has been systematically studied in some dicots and monocots, including Arabidopsis, tomato, chrysanthemum, soybean, wheat, corn, rice, and buckwheat. However, there are no related studies on sorghum. In this study, a total of 40 sorghum trihelix (SbTH) genes were identified based on the sorghum genome, among which 34 were located in the nucleus, 5 in the chloroplast, 1 (SbTH38) in the cytoplasm, and 1 (SbTH23) in the extracellular membrane. Phylogenetic analysis of the SbTH genes and Arabidopsis and rice trihelix genes indicated that the genes were clustered into seven subfamilies: SIP1, GTγ, GT1, GT2, SH4, GTSb8, and orphan genes. The SbTH genes were located in nine chromosomes and none on chromosome 10. One pair of tandem duplication gene and seven pairs of segmental duplication genes were identified in the SbTH gene family. By qPCR, the expression of 14 SbTH members in different plant tissues and in plants exposed to six abiotic stresses at the seedling stage were quantified. Except for the leaves in which the genes were upregulated after only 2 h exposure to high temperature, the 12 SbTH genes were significantly upregulated in the stems of sorghum seedlings after 24 h under the other abiotic stress conditions. Among the selected genes, SbTH10/37/39 were significantly upregulated, whereas SbTH32 was significantly downregulated under different stress conditions. In this study, we identified 40 trihelix genes in sorghum and found that gene duplication was the main force driving trihelix gene evolution in sorghum. The findings of our study serve as a basis for further investigation of the functions of SbTH genes and providing candidate genes for stress-resistant sorghum breeding programmes and increasing sorghum yield.
bHLH family proteins play an important role in plant stress response. However, the molecular mechanism regulating the salt response of bHLH is largely unknown. This study aimed to investigate the function and regulating mechanism of the sweet sorghum SbbHLH85 during salt stress. The results showed that SbbHLH85 was different from its homologs in other species. Also, it was a new atypical bHLH transcription factor and a key gene for root development in sweet sorghum. The overexpression of SbbHLH85 resulted in significantly increased number and length of root hairs via ABA and auxin signaling pathways, increasing the absorption of Na
High salt environments can induce stress in different plants. The genes containing the ZAT domain constitute a family that belongs to a branch of the C
Stomata allow CO2 uptake by leaves for photosynthetic assimilation at the cost of water vapor loss to the atmosphere. The opening and closing of stomata in response to fluctuations in light intensity regulate CO2 and water fluxes and are essential for maintaining water-use efficiency (WUE). However, a little is known about the genetic basis for natural variation in stomatal movement, especially in C4 crops. This is partly because the stomatal response to a change in light intensity is difficult to measure at the scale required for association studies. Here, we used high-throughput thermal imaging to bypass the phenotyping bottleneck and assess 10 traits describing stomatal conductance (gs) before, during and after a stepwise decrease in light intensity for a diversity panel of 659 sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) accessions. Results from thermal imaging significantly correlated with photosynthetic gas exchange measurements. gs traits varied substantially across the population and were moderately heritable (h2 up to 0.72). An integrated genome-wide and transcriptome-wide association study identified candidate genes putatively driving variation in stomatal conductance traits. Of the 239 unique candidate genes identified with the greatest confidence, 77 were putative orthologs of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genes related to functions implicated in WUE, including stomatal opening/closing (24 genes), stomatal/epidermal cell development (35 genes), leaf/vasculature development (12 genes), or chlorophyll metabolism/photosynthesis (8 genes). These findings demonstrate an approach to finding genotype-to-phenotype relationships for a challenging trait as well as candidate genes for further investigation of the genetic basis of WUE in a model C4 grass for bioenergy, food, and forage production.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) is a model C4 crop made experimentally tractable by extensive genomic and genetic resources. Biomass sorghum is studied as a feedstock for biofuel and forage. Mechanistic modeling suggests that reducing stomatal conductance (gs) could improve sorghum intrinsic water use efficiency (iWUE) and biomass production. Phenotyping to discover genotype-to-phenotype associations remains a bottleneck in understanding the mechanistic basis for natural variation in gs and iWUE. This study addressed multiple methodological limitations. Optical tomography and a machine learning tool were combined to measure stomatal density (SD). This was combined with rapid measurements of leaf photosynthetic gas exchange and specific leaf area (SLA). These traits were the subject of genome-wide association study and transcriptome-wide association study across 869 field-grown biomass sorghum accessions. The ratio of intracellular to ambient CO2 was genetically correlated with SD, SLA, gs, and biomass production. Plasticity in SD and SLA was interrelated with each other and with productivity across wet and dry growing seasons. Moderate-to-high heritability of traits studied across the large mapping population validated associations between DNA sequence variation or RNA transcript abundance and trait variation. A total of 394 unique genes underpinning variation in WUE-related traits are described with higher confidence because they were identified in multiple independent tests. This list was enriched in genes whose Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) putative orthologs have functions related to stomatal or leaf development and leaf gas exchange, as well as genes with nonsynonymous/missense variants. These advances in methodology and knowledge will facilitate improving C4 crop WUE.
Organophosphate is the commonly used pesticide to control pest outbreak, such as those by aphids in many crops. Despite its wide use, however, necrotic lesion and/or cell death following the application of organophosphate pesticides has been reported to occur in several species. To understand this phenomenon, called organophosphate pesticide sensitivity (OPS) in sorghum, we conducted QTL analysis in a recombinant inbred line derived from the Japanese cultivar NOG, which exhibits OPS. Mapping OPS in this population identified a prominent QTL on chromosome 5, which corresponded to Organophosphate-Sensitive Reaction (OSR) reported previously in other mapping populations. The OSR locus included a cluster of three genes potentially encoding nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat (NB-LRR, NLR) proteins, among which NLR-C was considered to be responsible for OPS in a dominant fashion. NLR-C was functional in NOG, whereas the other resistant parent, BTx623, had a null mutation caused by the deletion of promoter sequences. Our finding of OSR as a dominant trait is important not only in understanding the diversified role of NB-LRR proteins in cereals but also in securing sorghum breeding free from OPS.
Whole genome duplication (WGD) in plants is typically followed by genomic downsizing, where large portions of the new genome are lost. Whether this downsizing is accompanied by increased or decreased evolutionary rates of the remaining genes is poorly known, not least because homeolog pairings are often obscured by chromosomal rearrangement. Here, we use the newly published genome from a sedge, namely Kobresia littledalei, and CRISPR/Cas-9 editing to investigate how the Rho WGD event 70 million years ago (MYA) affected transcription factor evolutionary rates, fates, and function in rice (Oryza sativa) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). We focus on the 30-member DNA-binding with one zinc finger (Dof) transcription factor family in both crops due to their agronomic importance. Using the known speciation dates of rice from Kobresia (97 MYA) and sorghum (50 MYA), we find that rates of amino acid substitution in the critical Dof domain region were over twofold higher during the 20-million-year period following the WGD than before or afterward. Through comparison of synteny blocks, we report that at least 11% of Dof genes were purged from 70 to 50 MYA, while only 6% have been lost in the most recent 50-million-year interval. CRISPR/Cas9 editing revealed widespread fitness-related defects in flowering and lack of redundancy of paired members, as well as significant differences in expression between gene pairs. Together these findings demonstrate the strength of Dof genes as a model for deep evolutionary study and offer one of the most detailed portraits yet of the Rho WGD impact on a gene lineage.
Accurate genome annotations are essential to modern biology; however, they remain challenging to produce. Variation in gene structure and expression across species, as well as within an organism, make correctly annotating genes arduous; an issue exacerbated by pitfalls in current in silico methods. These issues necessitate complementary approaches to add additional confidence and rectify potential misannotations. Integration of epigenomic data into genome annotation is one such approach. In this study, we utilized sets of histone modification data, which are precisely distributed at either gene bodies or promoters to evaluate the annotation of the Zea mays genome. We leveraged these data genome wide, allowing for identification of annotations discordant with empirical data. In total, 13,159 annotation discrepancies were found in Z. mays upon integrating data across three different tissues, which were corroborated using RNA-based approaches. Upon correction, genes were extended by an average of 2128 base pairs, and we identified 2529 novel genes. Application of this method to five additional plant genomes identified a series of misannotations, as well as identified novel genes, including 13,836 in Asparagus officinalis, 2724 in Setaria viridis, 2446 in Sorghum bicolor, 8631 in Glycine max, and 2585 in Phaseolous vulgaris. This study demonstrates that histone modification data can be leveraged to rapidly improve current genome annotations across diverse plant lineages.
Plants are equipped with a wide range of defensive mechanisms such as morphophysiological, biochemical, molecular, and hormonal signaling for protecting against insect-pest infestation. The infestation of a devastating pest shoot fly [Atherigona soccata (Rodani)] at seedling stage causes huge loss of sorghum crop productivity. In morphophysiological screening ICSV700, ICSV705, and IS18551 have been categorized as resistant, PSC-4 moderately resistant, SL-44 and SWARNA as susceptible. The present study focused on the role of defensive gene expression and its products viz: superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), glutathione reductase (GR), polyphenol oxidase (PPO), phenyl alanine ammonia lyase (PAL), responsive enzymes, and metabolites restoring redox status in sorghum plants against shoot fly infestation. In both leaf and stem tissue of sorghum genotypes, shoot fly infestation induced SOD, APX, DHAR, GR, PAL, and PPO activities while CAT activity was significantly declined at 15 and 21 days after emergence (DAE). IS18551 with resistant behavior showed upregulation of SOD, GR, APX, and DHAR along with accumulation of ascorbate, glutathione enhancing redox status of the plant during shoot fly infestation at later stage of infestation. While SWARNA with susceptible response exhibited enhanced activity of phenylpropanoid pathway enzymes PAL and PPO which in turn increased the levels of secondary metabolites like o-dihydroxyphenol and other phenols deterring the insect to attack the plant. The qRT-PCR data predicted that stress-responsive genes were initially unregulated in SWARNA; however, at 21 DAE, multifold higher expression of SOD, CAT, APX, and PPO (24.8-, 37.2-, 21.7-, and 17.9-fold respectively) in 1S18551 indicates the resistance behavior of this genotype against insect infestation owing to sustainable development capability.
Miscanthus sinensis Andersson is a perennial grass that exhibits remarkable lignocellulose characteristics suitable for sustainable bioenergy production. However, knowledge of the genetic resources of this species is relatively limited, which considerably hampers further work on its biology and genetic improvement. In this study, through analyzing the transcriptome of mixed samples of leaves and stems using the latest PacBio Iso-Seq sequencing technology combined with Illumina HiSeq, we report the first full-length transcriptome dataset of M. sinensis with a total of 58.21 Gb clean data. An average of 15.75 Gb clean reads of each sample were obtained from the PacBio Iso-Seq system, which doubled the data size (6.68 Gb) obtained from the Illumina HiSeq platform. The integrated analyses of PacBio- and Illumina-based transcriptomic data uncovered 408,801 non-redundant transcripts with an average length of 1,685 bp. Of those, 189,406 transcripts were commonly identified by both methods, 169,149 transcripts with an average length of 619 bp were uniquely identified by Illumina HiSeq, and 51,246 transcripts with an average length of 2,535 bp were uniquely identified by PacBio Iso-Seq. Approximately 96 % of the final combined transcripts were mapped back to the Miscanthus genome, reflecting the high quality and coverage of our sequencing results. When comparing our data with genomes of four species of Andropogoneae, M. sinensis showed the closest relationship with sugarcane with up to 93 % mapping ratios, followed by sorghum with up to 80 % mapping ratios, indicating a high conservation of orthologs in these three genomes. Furthermore, 306,228 transcripts were successfully annotated against public databases including cell wall related genes and transcript factor families, thus providing many new insights into gene functions. The PacBio Iso-Seq data also helped identify 3,898 alternative splicing events and 2,963 annotated AS isoforms within 10 function categories. Taken together, the present study provides a rich data set of full-length transcripts that greatly enriches our understanding of M. sinensis transcriptomic resources, thus facilitating further genetic improvement and molecular studies of the Miscanthus species.
A greater rate of phloem unloading and storage in the stem, not a higher rate of sugar production by photosynthesis or sugar export from leaves, is the main factor that results in sugar accumulation in sweet dwarf sorghum compared to grain sorghum. At maturity, the stem internodes of sweet sorghum varieties accumulate high concentrations of fermentable sugars and represent an efficient feedstock for bioethanol production. Although stem sugar accumulation is a heritable trait, additional factors that drive sugar accumulation in sorghum have not been identified. To identify the constraints on stem sugar accumulation in sweet sorghum, we used a combination of carbon-11 (
Fungi are an inexhaustible source of bioactive metabolites that can be driven to find medicines for chronic diseases, as Alzheimer's disease. In the present work, five species of soil-originated fungi (
Native African cereals (sorghum, millets) ensure food security to millions of low-income people from low fertility and drought-prone regions of Africa and Asia. In spite of their agronomic importance, the genetic bases of their phenotype and adaptations are still not well-understood. Here we focus on
Phosphorus (P) is an essential macronutrient, playing a role in developmental and metabolic processes in plants. To understand the local and systemic responses of sorghum to inorganic phosphorus (P
Lysine acetylation is one of the major post-translational modifications and plays critical roles in regulating gene expression and protein function. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are responsible for the removal of acetyl groups from the lysines of both histone and non-histone proteins. The RPD3 family is the most widely studied HDACs. This article summarizes the regulatory mechanisms of Arabidopsis RPD3 family in several growth and development processes, which provide a reference for studying the mechanisms of RPD3 family members in regulating plant development. Moreover, this review may provide ideas and clues for exploring the functions of other members of HDACs family.
Gene expression was analyzed at 0- and 24-h post-inoculation of two inbred sorghum cultivars known to differ in response to inoculation with
Late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) genes display distinct functions in response to abiotic stresses in plants. In pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum L.), a total of 21 PgLEA genes were identified and classified into six groups including LEA1, LEA2, LEA3, LEA5, LEA7, and dehydrins (DHN). Open reading frames (ORFs) of PgLEAs range from 291 bp (PgLEA1-1) to 945 bp (PgLEA2-11) and distributed randomly among the seven chromosomes. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that all PgLEA proteins are closely related to sorghum LEA proteins. The PgLEAs were found to be expressed differentially under high progressive vapor pressure deficit (VPD), PgLEA7 was significantly expressed under high VPD and was selected for functional validation. In silico analysis of the PgLEA promoter regions revealed abiotic stress-specific cis-acting elements such as ABRE, CCAAT, MYBS, and LTRE. Based on the type of motifs, PgLEAPC promoter (758 bp), its deletion 1 (PgLpd1, 349 bp) and deletion 2 (PgLpd2, 125 bp) were cloned into the plant expression vector pMDC164 having the promoter-less uidA gene. All the three plant expression vectors were introduced into tobacco through Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation to obtain T
Microbe associated molecular pattern (MAMPs) triggered immunity (MTI) is a key component of the plant innate immunity response to microbial recognition. However, most of our current knowledge of MTI comes from model plants (i.e.,
Histone acetylation plays important roles in eukaryotic chromatin modification and gene expression regulation. Acetylation levels are modulated by histone deacetylases (HDACs), which function as key epigenetic factors that regulate gene expression in response to various stresses. HDT701, a member of the HD2 subfamily of HDACs, plays crucial roles in plant responses to abiotic stress and pathogen infection. Here, we analysed the expression pattern of SbHDT701 in sorghum. Real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) results showed that expression of SbHDT701 was tissue-specific, and up-regulated under drought (d-mannitol) and salt (NaCl) stresses. We also determined the optimal expression conditions for SbHDT701 protein accumulation, and successfully expressed and purified SbHDT701 protein. Besides, overexpression of SbHDT701 in could promote the growth of recombinant cells under abiotic stress. SbHDT701 expression in Escherichia coli also increased acetylation modification levels following treatment with 750 mM NaCl, and 100 mM or 300 mM d-mannitol. In summary, the sorghum HDAC SbHDT701 mediates stress responses by enhancing acetylation modification levels.
The conserved oligomeric Golgi (COG) complex maintains correct Golgi structure and function during retrograde trafficking. Glycine max has 2 paralogs of each COG gene, with one paralog of each gene family having a defense function to the parasitic nematode Heterodera glycines. Experiments presented here show G. max COG paralogs functioning in defense are expressed specifically in the root cells (syncytia) undergoing the defense response. The expressed defense COG gene COG7-2-b is an alternate splice variant, indicating specific COG variants are important to defense. Transcriptomic experiments examining RNA isolated from COG overexpressing and RNAi roots show some COG genes co-regulate the expression of other COG complex genes. Examining signaling events responsible for COG expression, transcriptomic experiments probing MAPK overexpressing roots show their expression influences the relative transcript abundance of COG genes as compared to controls. COG complex paralogs are shown to be found in plants that are agriculturally relevant on a world-wide scale including Manihot esculenta, Zea mays, Oryza sativa, Triticum aestivum, Hordeum vulgare, Sorghum bicolor, Brassica rapa, Elaes guineensis and Saccharum officinalis and in additional crops significant to U.S. agriculture including Beta vulgaris, Solanum tuberosum, Solanum lycopersicum and Gossypium hirsutum. The analyses provide basic information on COG complex biology, including the coregulation of some COG genes and that MAPKs functioning in defense influence their expression. Furthermore, it appears in G. max and likely other crops that some level of neofunctionalization of the duplicated genes is occurring. The analysis has identified important avenues for future research broadly in plants.
Panicle is a harvesting organ of rice, and its morphology and development are closely associated with grain yield. The current study was carried on a mutant screened through an EMS (ethyl-methane sulphonate) mutagenized population of a Japonica cultivar Kitaake (WT). A mutant, named as asp-lsl (aberrant spikelet-long sterile lemma), showed a significant decrease in plant height, number of tillers, thousand-grains weight, seed setting rate, spikelet length, kernel length and effective number of grains per panicle as compared to WT. Asp-lsl showed a pleiotropic phenotype coupled with the obvious presence of a long sterile lemma. Cross-sections of lemma showed an increase in the cell volume rather than the number of cells. Genetic segregation analysis revealed its phenotypic trait is controlled by a single recessive nuclear gene. Primary and fine mapping indicated that candidate gene controlling the phenotype of asp-lsl was located in an interval of 212 kb on the short arm of chromosome 8 between RM22445 and RM22453. Further sequencing and indels markers analysis revealed LOC_Os08g06480 harbors a single base substitution (G→A), resulting in a change of 521st amino acid(Gly→Glu. The homology comparison and phylogenetic tree analysis revealed mutation was occurred in a highly conserved domain and had a high degree of similarity in Arabidopsis, corn, and sorghum. The CRISPR/Cas9 mutant line of ASP-LSL produced a similar phenotype as that of asp-lsl. Subcellular localization of ASP-LSL revealed that its protein is localized in the nucleus. Relative expression analysis revealed ASP-LSL was preferentially expressed in panicle, stem, and leaves. The endogenous contents of GA, CTK, and IAA were found significantly decreased in asp-lsl as compared to WT. Current study presents the novel phenotype of asp-lsl and also validate the previously reported function of OsREL2 (ROMOSA ENHANCER LOCI2), / ASP1(ABERRANT SPIKELET AND PANICLE 1).
As effects of global climate change intensify, the interaction of biotic and abiotic stresses increasingly threatens current agricultural practices. The secondary cell wall is a vanguard of resistance to these stresses. Fusarium thapsinum (Fusarium stalk rot) and Macrophomina phaseolina (charcoal rot) cause internal damage to the stalks of the drought tolerant C4 grass, sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench), resulting in reduced transpiration, reduced photosynthesis, and increased lodging, severely reducing yields. Drought can magnify these losses. Two null alleles in monolignol biosynthesis of sorghum (brown midrib 6-ref, bmr6-ref; cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase, CAD; and bmr12-ref; caffeic acid O-methyltransferase, COMT) were used to investigate the interaction of water limitation with F. thapsinum or M. phaseolina infection. The bmr12 plants inoculated with either of these pathogens had increased levels of salicylic acid (SA) and jasmonic acid (JA) across both watering conditions and significantly reduced lesion sizes under water limitation compared to adequate watering, which suggested that drought may prime induction of pathogen resistance. RNA-Seq analysis revealed coexpressed genes associated with pathogen infection. The defense response included phytohormone signal transduction pathways, primary and secondary cell wall biosynthetic genes, and genes encoding components of the spliceosome and proteasome. Alterations in the composition of the secondary cell wall affect immunity by influencing phenolic composition and phytohormone signaling, leading to the action of defense pathways. Some of these pathways appear to be activated or enhanced by drought. Secondary metabolite biosynthesis and modification in SA and JA signal transduction may be involved in priming a stronger defense response in water-limited bmr12 plants.
Sugarcane (Saccharum) is the most critical sugar crop worldwide. As one of the most enriched transcription factor families in plants, MYB genes display a great potential to contribute to sugarcane improvement by trait modification. We have identified the sugarcane MYB gene family at a whole-genome level through systematic evolution analyses and expression profiling. R2R3-MYB is a large subfamily involved in many plant-specific processes. A total of 202 R2R3-MYB genes (356 alleles) were identified in the polyploid Saccharum spontaneum genomic sequence and classified into 15 subgroups by phylogenetic analysis. The sugarcane MYB family had more members by a comparative analysis in sorghum and significant advantages among most plants, especially grasses. Collinearity analysis revealed that 70% of the SsR2R3-MYB genes had experienced duplication events, logically suggesting the contributors to the MYB gene family expansion. Functional characterization was performed to identify 56 SsR2R3-MYB genes involved in various plant bioprocesses with expression profiling analysis on 60 RNA-seq databases. We identified 22 MYB genes specifically expressed in the stem, of which RT-qPCR validated MYB43, MYB53, MYB65, MYB78, and MYB99. Allelic expression dominance analysis implied the differential expression of alleles might be responsible for the high expression of MYB in the stem. MYB169, MYB181, MYB192 were identified as candidate C This is the first report on genome-wide analysis of the MYB gene family in sugarcane. SsMYBs probably played an essential role in stem development and the adaptation of various stress conditions. The results will provide detailed insights and rich resources to understand the functional diversity of MYB transcription factors and facilitate the breeding of essential traits in sugarcane.
Osmotic stress is a severe condition frequently encountered by microorganisms; however, there is limited knowledge on the influence of hyperosmotic stress on the growth, development and pathogenicity of phytopathogenic fungi. Here, three osmotic conditions (0.4 M NaCl, 0.4 M KCl, and 0.6 M sorbitol supplemented in potato dextrose agar medium) were used to identify the effect of osmotic stress on the growth, development and pathogenicity of
Sorghum is a cereal crop with key agronomic traits of drought and heat stress tolerance, making it an ideal food and industrial commodity for hotter and more arid climates. These stress tolerances also present a useful scientific resource for studying the molecular basis for environmental resilience. Here we provide an extensive review of current transcriptome and proteome works conducted with laboratory, greenhouse, or field-grown sorghum plants exposed to drought, osmotic stress, or treated with the drought stress-regulatory phytohormone, abscisic acid. Large datasets from these studies reveal changes in gene/protein expression across diverse signaling and metabolic pathways. Together, the emerging patterns from these datasets reveal that the overall functional classes of stress-responsive genes/proteins within sorghum are similar to those observed in equivalent studies of other drought-sensitive model species. This highlights a monumental challenge of distinguishing key regulatory genes/proteins, with a primary role in sorghum adaptation to drought, from genes/proteins that change in expression because of stress. Finally, we discuss possible options for taking the research forward. Successful exploitation of sorghum research for implementation in other crops may be critical in establishing climate-resilient agriculture for future food security.
Iron (Fe) starvation in Strategy II plants is a major nutritional problem causing severe visual symptoms and yield reductions. This prompted us to investigate the physiological and molecular consequences of Fe deficiency responses at an early stage in sorghum plants. The Fe-starved sorghum did not show shoot biomass reduction, but the root length, biomass, and chlorophyll synthesis were severely affected. The chlorophyll
Spirodela polyrrhiza is a floating plant widely used in biomass utilization and eutrophication phytoremediation. It becomes a common aquatic plant everywhere with the increasingly serious eutrophication. It has been reported that S. polyrrhiza has a good effect on the remediation of eutrophication water. In order to study the absorption and transportation of phosphorus in S. polyrrhiza, we extracted RNA from S. polyrrhiza and then reverse transcribed it into cDNA, which was used as a template to amplify a specific fragment. The full-length sequence of the open reading frame (ORF) was 1 620 bp, encoding 539 amino acids, named SpPHT1;1, and the accession number in GenBank was MN720003. Bioinformatical analysis showed that SpPHT1;1 had no intron. The protein it encoded was a stable, hydrophobic protein with 11 transmembrane domains. SpPHT1;1 structure was similar to that of major facilitator superfamily (MFS) superfamily members. The cluster analysis showed that SpPHT1;1 was closely related to ZMPHT2 in maize and SBPHT1-8 in sorghum. So, it might belong to plant PHT1 family. The expression of SpPHT1;1 in leaf was significantly more than that of root under normal phosphorus condition. Low phosphorus condition could promote gene expression, and the relative expression level of SpPHT1;1 arrived at the peak at 48 h both in root and leaf. High phosphorus condition could inhibit gene expression. These results indicated that SpPHT1;1 expression would be affected by external phosphorus concentration. The results of this study are helpful for further research on the function of phosphate transporter. It also can provide theoretical basis for further development and utilization of S. polyrrhiza.
A novel genic male-sterile mutant ms40 was obtained from EMS treated RP125. The key candidate gene ZmbHLH51 located on chromosome 4 was identified by map-based cloning. This study further enriched the male sterile gene resources for both production applications and theoretical studies of abortion mechanisms. Maize male-sterile mutant 40 (ms40) was obtained from the progeny of the ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) treated inbred line RP125. Genetic analysis indicated that the sterility was controlled by a single recessive nuclear gene. Cytological observation of anthers revealed that the cuticles of ms40 anthers were abnormal, and no Ubisch bodies were observed on the inner surface of ms40 anthers through scanning electron microscopy(SEM). Moreover, its tapetum exhibited delayed degradation and then blocked the formation of normal microspores. Using map-based cloning strategy, the ms40 locus was found to locate in a 282-kb interval on chromosome 4, and five annotated genes were predicted within this region. PCR-based sequencing detected a single non-synonymous SNP (G > A) that changed glycine (G) to arginine (A) in the seventh exon of Zm00001d053895, while no sequence difference between ms40 and RP125 was found for the other four genes. Zm00001d053895 encodes the bHLH transcription factor ZmbHLH51 which is localized in the nucleus. Phylogenetic analysis showed that ZmbHLH51 had the highest homology with Sb04g001650, a tapetum degeneration retardation (TDR) bHLH transcription factor in Sorghum bicolor. Co-expression analysis revealed a total of 1192 genes co-expressed with ZmbHLH51 in maize, 647 of which were anther-specific genes. qRT-PCR results suggested the expression levels of some known genes related to anther development were affected in ms40. In summary, these findings revealed the abortion characteristics of ms40 anthers and lay a foundation for further studies on the mechanisms of male fertility.
The protein kinase (PK) superfamily is one of the largest superfamilies in plants and the core regulator of cellular signaling. Despite this substantial importance, the kinomes of sugarcane and sorghum have not been profiled. Here, we identified and profiled the complete kinomes of the polyploid
The possible molecular mechanisms regulating sorghum callus regeneration were revealed by RNA-sequencing. Plant callus regeneration has been widely applied in agricultural improvement. Recently, callus regeneration has been successfully applied in the genetic transformation of sorghum by using immature sorghum embryos as explants. However, the mechanism underlying callus regeneration in sorghum is still largely unknown. Here, we describe three types of callus (Callus I-III) with different redifferentiation abilities undergoing distinct induction from immature embryos of the Hiro-1 variety. Compared with nonembryonic Callus III, Callus I produced only some identifiable roots, and embryonic Callus II was sufficient to regenerate whole plants. Genome-wide transcriptome profiles were generated to reveal the underlying mechanisms. The numbers of differentially expressed genes for the three types of callus varied from 5906 to 8029. In accordance with the diverse regeneration abilities observed for different types of callus and leaf tissues, the principal component analysis revealed that the gene expression patterns of Callus I and Callus II were different from those of Callus III and leaves regenerated from Callus II. Notably, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) analyses, pharmacological treatment, and substance content determinations revealed that plant ribosomes, lignin metabolic processes, and metabolism of starch and sucrose were significantly enriched, suggesting that these factors are associated with callus regeneration. These results helped elucidate the molecular regulation of three types of callus with different regeneration abilities in sorghum.
In plants, Calcium (Ca A total of 34 CaCA genes in Saccharum spontaneum, 5 CaCA genes in Saccharum spp. R570, and 14 CaCA genes in Sorghum bicolor were identified and characterized. These genes consisted of the H This study systematically conducted comparative analyses of CaCA superfamily genes among S. spontaneum, R570, and S. bicolor, delineating their sequence and structure characteristics, classification, evolutionary history, and putative functions. These results not only provided rich gene resources for exploring the molecular mechanism of the CaCA superfamily genes but also offered guidance and reference for research on other gene families in Saccharum.
Loss of the awn in some cereals, including sorghum, is a key transition during cereal domestication or improvement that has facilitated grain harvest and storage. The genetic basis of awn loss in sorghum during domestication or improvement remains unknown. Here, we identified the awn1 gene encoding a transcription factor with the ALOG domain that is responsible for awn loss during sorghum domestication or improvement. awn1 arose from a gene duplication on chromosome 10 that translocated to chromosome 3, recruiting a new promoter from the neighboring intergenic region filled with "noncoding DNA" and recreating the first exon and intron. awn1 acquired high expression after duplication and represses the elongation of awns in domesticated sorghum. Comparative mapping revealed high collinearity at the awn1 paralog locus on chromosome 10 across cereals, and awn growth and development were successfully reactivated on the rice spikelet by inactivating the rice awn1 ortholog. RNA-seq and DAP-seq revealed that as a transcriptional repressor, AWN1 bound directly to a motif in the regulatory regions of three MADS genes related to flower development and two genes, DL and LKS2, involved in awn development. AWN1 downregulates the expression of these genes, thereby repressing awn elongation. The preexistence of regulatory elements in the neighboring intergenic region of awn1 before domestication implicates that noncoding DNA may serve as a treasure trove for evolution during sorghum adaptation to a changing world. Taken together, our results suggest that gene duplication can rapidly drive the evolution of gene regulatory networks in plants.
Durable disease resistance genes such as the wheat gene Lr34 are valuable sources of resistance for agricultural breeding programs. Lr34 encodes an ATP-binding cassette transporter protein involved in the transport of the phytohormone abscisic acid. Lr34 from wheat is functionally transferable to barley, maize, rice and sorghum. A pleiotropic effect of Lr34 induces the development of a senescence-like phenotype, referred to as leaf tip necrosis. We used Lr34-expressing wheat and transgenic barley plants to elucidate the role of abscisic acid in the development of leaf tip necrosis. Leaf tips in Lr34-expressing wheat and barley showed an accumulation of abscisic acid. No increase of Lr34 expression was detected in the leaf tip. Instead, the development of ectopic, Lr34-induced leaf tip necrosis after removing the leaf tip suggests an increased flux of abscisic acid towards the tip, where it accumulates and mediates the development of leaf tip necrosis. This redistribution of abscisic acid was also observed in adult transgenic barley plants with a high Lr34 expression level growing in the field and coincided with leaf tip necrosis as well as complete field resistance against Puccinia hordei and Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei. In a barley transgenic line with a lower Lr34 expression level, a quantitative resistance against Puccinia hordei was still observed, but without a significant redistribution of abscisic acid or apparent leaf tip necrosis. Thus, our results imply that fine-tuning the Lr34 expression level is essential to balance disease resistance versus leaf tip necrosis to deploy transgenic Lr34 in breeding programs.
GRAS, an important family of transcription factors, have played pivotal roles in regulating numerous intriguing biological processes in plant development and abiotic stress responses. Since the sequencing of the sorghum genome, a plethora of genetic studies were mainly focused on the genomic information. The indepth identification or genome-wide analysis of GRAS family genes, especially in Sorghum bicolor, have rarely been studied. A total of 81 SbGRAS genes were identified based on the S. bicolor genome. They were named SbGRAS01 to SbGRAS81 and grouped into 13 subfamilies (LISCL, DLT, OS19, SCL4/7, PAT1, SHR, SCL3, HAM-1, SCR, DELLA, HAM-2, LAS and OS4). SbGRAS genes are not evenly distributed on the chromosomes. According to the results of the gene and motif composition, SbGRAS members located in the same group contained analogous intron/exon and motif organizations. We found that the contribution of tandem repeats to the increase in sorghum GRAS members was slightly greater than that of fragment repeats. By quantitative (q) RT-PCR, the expression of 13 SbGRAS members in different plant tissues and in plants exposed to six abiotic stresses at the seedling stage were quantified. We further investigated the relationship between DELLA genes, GAs and grain development in S. bicolor. The paclobutrazol treatment significantly increased grain weight, and affected the expression levels of all DELLA subfamily genes. SbGRAS03 is the most sensitive to paclobutrazol treatment, but also has a high response to abiotic stresses. Collectively, SbGRAs play an important role in plant development and response to abiotic stress. This systematic analysis lays the foundation for further study of the functional characteristics of GRAS genes of S. bicolor.
An overview is presented of recent advances in our knowledge of responses and mechanisms rendering adaptation to saline conditions in sorghum. Different strategies deployed to enhance salinity stress tolerance in sorghum are also pointed out. Salinity stress is a growing problem worldwide. Sorghum is the fifth key crop among cereals. Understanding responses and tolerance strategies in sorghum would be therefore helpful effort for providing biomarkers for designing greatest salinity-tolerant sorghum genotypes. When sorghum exposed to salinity, salinity-tolerant genotypes most probably reprogram their gene expression to activate adaptive biochemical and physiological responses for survival. The review thus discusses the possible physiological and biochemical responses that confer salinity tolerance to sorghum under saline conditions. Although it is not characterized in sorghum, salinity perceiving and transmitting signals to downstream responses via signaling transduction pathways most likely are essential strategy for sorghum adaptation to salinity stress. Sorghum has also shown to withstand moderate saline environments and retain the germination, growth, and photosynthetic activities. Salinity-tolerant sorghum genotypes show the ability to exclude excessive Na
Genome-wide screening and A total of 36 This work paves the way for the utilization of chaperonin family genes for achieving abiotic stress tolerance in plants.
Flowering is of utmost relevance for the agricultural productivity of the sugarcane bioeconomy, but data and knowledge of the genetic mechanisms underlying its photoperiodic induction are still scarce. An understanding of the molecular mechanisms that regulate the transition from vegetative to reproductive growth in sugarcane could provide better control of flowering for breeding. This study aimed to investigate the transcriptome of +1 mature leaves of a sugarcane cultivar subjected to florally inductive and non-inductive photoperiodic treatments to identify gene expression patterns and molecular regulatory modules. We identified 7,083 differentially expressed (DE) genes, of which 5,623 showed significant identity to other plant genes. Functional group analysis showed differential regulation of important metabolic pathways involved in plant development, such as plant hormones (i.e., cytokinin, gibberellin, and abscisic acid), light reactions, and photorespiration. Gene ontology enrichment analysis revealed evidence of upregulated processes and functions related to the response to abiotic stress, photoprotection, photosynthesis, light harvesting, and pigment biosynthesis, whereas important categories related to growth and vegetative development of plants, such as plant organ morphogenesis, shoot system development, macromolecule metabolic process, and lignin biosynthesis, were downregulated. Also, out of 76 sugarcane transcripts considered putative orthologs to flowering genes from other plants (such as
A major limiting factor for plant growth is the aluminum (Al) toxicity in acidic soils, especially in tropical regions. The exclusion of Al from the root apex through root exudation of organic acids such as malate and citrate is one of the most ubiquitous tolerance mechanisms in the plant kingdom. Two families of anion channels that confer Al tolerance are well described in the literature, ALMT and MATE family. In this study, sugarcane plants constitutively overexpressing the Sorghum bicolor MATE gene (SbMATE) showed improved tolerance to Al when compared to non-transgenic (NT) plants, characterized by sustained root growth and exclusion of aluminum from the root apex based on the result obtained with hematoxylin staining. In addition, genome-wide analysis of the recently released sugarcane genome identified 11 ALMT genes and molecular studies showed potential new targets for aluminum tolerance. Our results indicate that the transgenic plants overexpressing the Sorghum bicolor MATE has an improved tolerance to Al. The expression profile of ALMT genes revels potential candidate genes to be used has an alternative for agricultural expansion in Brazil and other areas with aluminum toxicity in poor and acid soils.
Key miRNAs including sbi-miR169p/q, sbi-miR171g/j, sbi-miR172a/c/d, sbi-miR172e, sbi-miR319a/b, sbi-miR396a/b, miR408, sbi-miR5384, sbi-miR5565e and nov_23 were identified to function in the regulation of Cd accumulation and tolerance. As an energy plant, sweet sorghum shows great potential in the phytoremediation of Cd-contaminated soils. However, few studies have focused on the regulatory roles of miRNAs and their targets under Cd stress. In this study, comparative analysis of sRNAs, degradome and transcriptomics was conducted in high-Cd accumulation (H18) and low-Cd accumulation (L69) genotypes of sweet sorghum. A total of 38 conserved and 23 novel miRNAs with differential expressions were identified under Cd stress or between H18 and L69, and 114 target genes of 41 miRNAs were validated. Furthermore, 25 miRNA-mRNA pairs exhibited negatively correlated expression profiles and sbi-miR172e together with its target might participate in the distinct Cd tolerance between H18 and L69 as well as sbi-miR172a/c/d. Additionally, two groups of them: miR169p/q-nov_23 and miR408 were focused through the co-expression analysis, which might be involved in Cd uptake and tolerance by regulating their targets associated with transmembrane transportation, cytoskeleton activity, cell wall construction and ROS (reactive oxygen species) homeostasis. Further experiments exhibited that cell wall components of H18 and L69 were different when exposed to cadmium, which might be regulated by miR169p/q, miR171g/j, miR319a/b, miR396a/b, miR5384 and miR5565e through their targets. Through this study, we aim to reveal the potential miRNAs involved in sweet sorghum in response to Cd stress and provide references for developing high-Cd accumulation or high Cd-resistant germplasm of sweet sorghum that can be used in phytoremediation.
The dehydration-responsive element-binding proteins (DREBs) are important transcription factors that interact with a DRE/CRT (C-repeat) sequence and involve in response to multiple abiotic stresses in plants. Modern sugarcane are hybrids from the cross between Saccharum spontaneum and Saccharum officinarum, and the high sugar content is considered to the attribution of S. officinaurm, while the stress tolerance is attributed to S. spontaneum. To understand the molecular and evolutionary characterization and gene functions of the DREBs in sugarcane, based on the recent availability of the whole genome information, the present study performed a genome-wide in silico analysis of DREB genes and transcriptome analysis in the polyploidy S. spontaneum. Twelve DREB1 genes and six DREB2 genes were identified in S. spontaneum genome and all proteins contained a conserved AP2/ERF domain. Eleven SsDREB1 allele genes were assumed to be originated from tandem duplications, and two of them may be derived after the split of S. spontaneum and the proximal diploid species sorghum, suggesting tandem duplication contributed to the expansion of DREB1-type genes in sugarcane. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that one DREB2 gene was lost during the evolution of sugarcane. Expression profiling showed different SsDREB genes with variable expression levels in the different tissues, indicating seven SsDREB genes were likely involved in the development and photosynthesis of S. spontaneum. Furthermore, SsDREB1F, SsDREB1L, SsDREB2D, and SsDREB2F were up-regulated under drought and cold condition, suggesting that these four genes may be involved in both dehydration and cold response in sugarcane. These findings demonstrated the important role of DREBs not only in the stress response, but also in the development and photosynthesis of S. spontaneum.
A number of mutational changes in transcriptional regulators of defense metabolism have occurred during plant domestication and improvement. Plant domestication and improvement entail genetic changes that underlie divergence in development and metabolism, providing a tremendous model of biological evolution. Plant metabolism produces numerous specialized alkaloids, terpenoids, phenolics, and cyanogenic glucosides with indispensable roles in defense against herbivory and microbial infection. Many compounds toxic or deterrent to predators have been eliminated through domestication and breeding. Series of genes involved in defense metabolism are coordinately regulated by transcription factors that specifically recognize cis-regulatory elements in promoter regions of downstream target genes. Recent developments in DNA sequencing technologies and genomic approaches have facilitated studies of the metabolic and genetic changes in chemical defense that have occurred via human-mediated selection, many of which result from mutations in transcriptional regulators of defense metabolism. In this article, we review such examples in almond (Prunus dulcis), cucumber (Cucumis sativus), pepper (Capsicum spp.), potato (Solanum tuberosum), quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and related species and discuss insights into the evolution and regulation of metabolic pathways for specialized defense compounds.
Pathogens that infect more than one host offer an opportunity to study how resistance mechanisms have evolved across different species.
Basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) is a superfamily of transcription factors that is widely found in plants and animals, and is the second largest transcription factor family in eukaryotes after MYB. They have been shown to be important regulatory components in tissue development and many different biological processes. However, no systemic analysis of the bHLH transcription factor family has yet been reported in Sorghum bicolor. We conducted the first genome-wide analysis of the bHLH transcription factor family of Sorghum bicolor and identified 174 SbbHLH genes. Phylogenetic analysis of SbbHLH proteins and 158 Arabidopsis thaliana bHLH proteins was performed to determine their homology. In addition, conserved motifs, gene structure, chromosomal spread, and gene duplication of SbbHLH genes were studied in depth. To further infer the phylogenetic mechanisms in the SbbHLH family, we constructed six comparative syntenic maps of S. bicolor associated with six representative species. Finally, we analyzed the gene-expression response and tissue-development characteristics of 12 typical SbbHLH genes in plants subjected to six different abiotic stresses. Gene expression during flower and fruit development was also examined. This study is of great significance for functional identification and confirmation of the S. bicolor bHLH superfamily and for our understanding of the bHLH superfamily in higher plants.
Targeted engineering of plant gene expression holds great promise for ensuring food security and for producing biopharmaceuticals in plants. However, this engineering requires thorough knowledge of cis-regulatory elements to precisely control either endogenous or introduced genes. To generate this knowledge, we used a massively parallel reporter assay to measure the activity of nearly complete sets of promoters from Arabidopsis, maize and sorghum. We demonstrate that core promoter elements-notably the TATA box-as well as promoter GC content and promoter-proximal transcription factor binding sites influence promoter strength. By performing the experiments in two assay systems, leaves of the dicot tobacco and protoplasts of the monocot maize, we detect species-specific differences in the contributions of GC content and transcription factors to promoter strength. Using these observations, we built computational models to predict promoter strength in both assay systems, allowing us to design highly active promoters comparable in activity to the viral 35S minimal promoter. Our results establish a promising experimental approach to optimize native promoter elements and generate synthetic ones with desirable features.
Recent studies have demonstrated that drought leads to dramatic, highly conserved shifts in the root microbiome. At present, the molecular mechanisms underlying these responses remain largely uncharacterized. Here we employ genome-resolved metagenomics and comparative genomics to demonstrate that carbohydrate and secondary metabolite transport functionalities are overrepresented within drought-enriched taxa. These data also reveal that bacterial iron transport and metabolism functionality is highly correlated with drought enrichment. Using time-series root RNA-Seq data, we demonstrate that iron homeostasis within the root is impacted by drought stress, and that loss of a plant phytosiderophore iron transporter impacts microbial community composition, leading to significant increases in the drought-enriched lineage, Actinobacteria. Finally, we show that exogenous application of iron disrupts the drought-induced enrichment of Actinobacteria, as well as their improvement in host phenotype during drought stress. Collectively, our findings implicate iron metabolism in the root microbiome's response to drought and may inform efforts to improve plant drought tolerance to increase food security.
A total of seven glutathione reductase (GR) genes were identified in Triticum aestivum, which were used for comparative structural characterization, phylogenetic analysis and expression profiling with the GR genes of other cereal plants. The modulated gene expression and enzyme activity revealed the role of GRs in abiotic stress response in T. aestivum. Glutathione reductase (GR) is an enzymatic antioxidant that converts oxidized glutathione (GSSG) into reduced glutathione (GSH) through the ascorbate-glutathione cycle. In this study, a total of seven GR genes forming two homeologous groups were identified in the allohexaploid genome of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum). Besides, we identified three GR genes in each Aegilops tauschii, Brachypodium distachyon, Triticum urartu and Sorghum bicolor, which were used for comparative characterization. Phylogenetic analysis revealed the clustering of GR proteins into two groups; class I and class II, which were predicted to be localized in cytoplasm and chloroplast, respectively. The exon-intron and conserved motif patterns were almost conserved in each group, in which a maximum of 10 and 17 exons were present in chloroplastic and cytoplasmic GRs, respectively. The protein structure analysis confirmed the occurrence of conserved pyridine nucleotide disulfide oxidoreductase (Pyr_redox) and pyridine nucleotide disulfide oxidoreductase dimerization (Pyr_redox_dim) domains in each GR. The active site of GR proteins consisted of two conserved cysteine residues separated by four amino acid residues. Promoter analysis revealed the occurrence of growth and stress-related cis-active elements. Tissue-specific expression profiling suggested the involvement of GRs in both vegetative and reproductive tissue development in various plants. The differential expression of TaGR genes and enhanced GR enzyme activity suggested their roles under drought, heat, salt and arsenic stress. Interaction of GRs with other proteins and chemical compounds of the ascorbate-glutathione cycle revealed their coordinated functioning. The current study will provide a foundation for the validation of the precise role of each GR gene in future studies.
Apart from confinement of Ne1 to a 4.45 Mb genomic segment, markers closely linked to Ne2 were identified and incomplete dominance of both genes in conditioning necrosis severity was shown. Hybrid necrosis in plants is characterized by premature death of leaves or plants in F
Host genetics has recently been shown to be a driver of plant microbiome composition. However, identifying the underlying genetic loci controlling microbial selection remains challenging. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) represent a potentially powerful, unbiased method to identify microbes sensitive to the host genotype and to connect them with the genetic loci that influence their colonization. Here, we conducted a population-level microbiome analysis of the rhizospheres of 200 sorghum genotypes. Using 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing, we identify rhizosphere-associated bacteria exhibiting heritable associations with plant genotype, and identify significant overlap between these lineages and heritable taxa recently identified in maize. Furthermore, we demonstrate that GWAS can identify host loci that correlate with the abundance of specific subsets of the rhizosphere microbiome. Finally, we demonstrate that these results can be used to predict rhizosphere microbiome structure for an independent panel of sorghum genotypes based solely on knowledge of host genotypic information.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small non-coding RNAs that play an important role in post-transcriptional gene regulation in plants and animals by targeting messenger RNAs (mRNAs) for cleavage or repressing translation of specific mRNAs. The first miRNA identified in plants, miRNA156 (miR156), targets the SQUAMOSA promoter-binding protein-like (SPL) transcription factors, which play critical roles in plant phase transition, flower and plant architecture, and fruit development. We identified multiple copies of
Exploring the natural genetic variability and its exploitation for improved Nitrogen Use Efficiency (NUE) in sorghum is one of the primary goals in the modern crop improvement programs. The integrated strategies include high-throughput phenotyping, next generation sequencing (NGS)-based genotyping technologies, and
Miscanthus, a member of the Saccharinae subtribe that includes sorghum and sugarcane, has been widely studied as a feedstock for cellulosic biofuel production. Here, we report the sequencing and assembly of the Miscanthus floridulus genome by the integration of PacBio sequencing and Hi-C mapping, resulting in a chromosome-scale, high-quality reference genome of the genus Miscanthus. Comparisons among Saccharinae genomes suggest that Sorghum split first from the common ancestor of Saccharum and Miscanthus, which subsequently diverged from each other, with two successive whole-genome duplication events occurring independently in the Saccharum genus and one whole-genome duplication occurring in the Miscanthus genus. Fusion of two chromosomes occurred during rediploidization in M. floridulus and no significant subgenome dominance was observed. A survey of cellulose synthases (CesA) in M. floridulus revealed quite high expression of most CesA genes in growing stems, which is in agreement with the high cellulose content of this species. Resequencing and comparisons of 75 Miscanthus accessions suggest that M. lutarioriparius is genetically close to M. sacchariflorus and that M. floridulus is more distantly related to other species and is more genetically diverse. This study provides a valuable genomic resource for molecular breeding and improvement of Miscanthus and Saccharinae crops.
The plant specific TIFY (previously known as ZIM) transcription factor (TF) family plays crucial roles in cross talk between Jasmonic Acid and other phytohormones like gibberellins, salicylic acid, abscisic acid, auxin, and ethylene signaling pathways. Wheat yield is severely affected by rust diseases and many abiotic stresses, where different phytohormone signaling pathways are involved. TIFYs have been studied in many plants yet reports describing their molecular structure and function in wheat are lacking. In the present study, we have identified 23 novel TIFY genes in wheat genome using in silico approaches. The identified proteins were characterized based on their conserved domains and phylogenetically classified into nine subfamilies. Chromosomal localization of the identified TIFY genes showed arbitrary distribution. Forty cis-acting elements including phytohormone, stress and light receptive elements were detected in the upstream regions of TIFY genes. Seventeen wheat microRNAs targeted the identified wheat TIFY genes. Gene ontological studies revealed their major contribution in defense response and phytohormone signaling. Secondary structure of TIFY proteins displayed the characteristic alpha-alpha-beta fold. Synteny analyses indicated all wheat TIFY genes had orthologous sequences in sorghum, rice, maize, barley and Brachypodium indicating presence of similar TIFY domains in monocot plants. Six TIFY genes had been cloned from wheat genomic and cDNA. Sequence characterization revealed similar characteristics as the in silico identified novel TIFY genes. Tertiary structures predicted the active sites in these proteins to play critical roles in DNA binding. Expression profiling of TIFY genes showed their contribution during incompatible and compatible leaf rust infestation. TIFY genes were also highly expressed during the initial hours of phytohormone induced stress. This study furnishes fundamental information on characterization and putative functions of TIFY genes in wheat.
Introduction of C4 photosynthetic traits into C3 crops is an important strategy for improving photosynthetic capacity and productivity. Here, we report the research results of a variant line of sorghum-rice (SR) plant with big panicle and high spikelet density by introducing sorghum genome DNA into rice by spike-stalk injection. The whole-genome resequencing showed that a few sorghum genes could be integrated into the rice genome. Gene expression was confirmed for two C4 photosynthetic enzymes containing pyruvate, orthophosphate dikinase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase. Exogenous sorghum DNA integration induced a series of key traits associated with the C4 pathway called "proto-Kranz" anatomy, including leaf thickness, bundle sheath number and size, and chloroplast size in bundle sheath cells. Significantly, transgenic plants exhibited enhanced photosynthetic capacity resulting from both photosynthetic CO
Circadian rhythms regulate several physiological and developmental processes of plants. Hence, the identification of genes with the underlying circadian rhythmic features is pivotal. Though computational methods have been developed for the identification of circadian genes, all these methods are based on gene expression datasets. In other words, we failed to search any sequence-based model, and that motivated us to deploy the present computational method to identify the proteins encoded by the circadian genes. Support vector machine (SVM) with seven kernels, i.e., linear, polynomial, radial, sigmoid, hyperbolic, Bessel and Laplace was utilized for prediction by employing compositional, transitional and physico-chemical features. Higher accuracy of 62.48% was achieved with the Laplace kernel, following the fivefold cross- validation approach. The developed model further secured 62.96% accuracy with an independent dataset. The SVM also outperformed other state-of-art machine learning algorithms, i.e., Random Forest, Bagging, AdaBoost, XGBoost and LASSO. We also performed proteome-wide identification of circadian proteins in two cereal crops namely, Oryza sativa and Sorghum bicolor, followed by the functional annotation of the predicted circadian proteins with Gene Ontology (GO) terms. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first computational method to identify the circadian genes with the sequence data. Based on the proposed method, we have developed an R-package PredCRG ( https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/PredCRG/index.html ) for the scientific community for proteome-wide identification of circadian genes. The present study supplements the existing computational methods as well as wet-lab experiments for the recognition of circadian genes.
Bamboo, a fast-growing non-timber forest plant with many uses, is a valuable species for green development. However, bamboo flowering is very infrequent, extending, in general, for up to 120 years. Ecologically, bamboo species are generally better adapted to various environments than other grasses. Therefore, the species deserves a special status in what could be called Ecological Bioeconomy. An understanding of the genetic processes of bamboo can help us sustainably develop and manage bamboo forests. Transposable elements (TEs), jumping genes or transposons, are major genetic elements in plant genomes. The rapid development of the bamboo reference genome, at the chromosome level, reveals that TEs occupy over 63.24% of the genome. This is higher than found in rice, Brachypodium, and sorghum. The bamboo genome contains diverse families of TEs, which play a significant role in bamboo's biological processes including growth and development. TEs provide important clues for understanding the evolution of the bamboo genome. In this chapter, we briefly describe the current status of research on TEs in the bamboo genome, their regulation, and transposition mechanisms. Perspectives for future research are also provided.
Sorghum grain mold is the most important disease of the crop. The disease results from simultaneous infection of the grain by multiple fungal species. Host responses to these fungi and the underlying molecular and cellular processes are poorly understood. To understand the genetic, molecular and biochemical components of grain mold resistance, transcriptome profiles of the developing grain of resistant and susceptible sorghum genotypes were studied. The developing kernels of grain mold resistant RTx2911 and susceptible RTx430 sorghum genotypes were inoculated with a mixture of fungal pathogens mimicking the species complexity of the disease under natural infestation. Global transcriptome changes corresponding to multiple molecular and cellular processes, and biological functions including defense, secondary metabolism, and flavonoid biosynthesis were observed with differential regulation in the two genotypes. Genes encoding pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), regulators of growth and defense homeostasis, antimicrobial peptides, pathogenesis-related proteins, zein seed storage proteins, and phytoalexins showed increased expression correlating with resistance. Notably, SbLYK5 gene encoding an orthologue of chitin PRR, defensin genes SbDFN7.1 and SbDFN7.2 exhibited higher expression in the resistant genotype. The SbDFN7.1 and SbDFN7.2 genes are tightly linked and transcribed in opposite orientation with a likely common bidirectional promoter. Interestingly, increased expression of JAZ and other transcriptional repressors were observed that suggested the tight regulation of plant defense and growth. The data suggest a pathogen inducible defense system in the developing grain of sorghum that involves the chitin PRR, MAPKs, key transcription factors, downstream components regulating immune gene expression and accumulation of defense molecules. We propose a model through which the biosynthesis of 3-deoxyanthocynidin phytoalexins, defensins, PR proteins, other antimicrobial peptides, and defense suppressing proteins are regulated by a pathogen inducible defense system in the developing grain. The transcriptome data from a rarely studied tissue shed light into genetic, molecular, and biochemical components of disease resistance and suggested that the developing grain shares conserved immune response mechanisms but also components uniquely enriched in the grain. Resistance was associated with increased expression of genes encoding regulatory factors, novel grain specific antimicrobial peptides including defensins and storage proteins that are potential targets for crop improvement.
Cuticular wax and cutin are directly involved in the mechanisms by which plants acclimate to water-limited environments. However, how the two lipid forms balance their contributions to plant drought-tolerance is still not clear. The present study examined the responses of cutin monomers and cuticular waxes to drought stress in two sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) cultivars, drought-tolerant cv. Kangsi and drought-sensitive cv. Hongyingzi, by combining lipidomic and transcriptomic analysis. Drought increased total cutin contents by 41.3%, the contents of alkanoic acids by 72.6% and 2-hydroxyacids by 117.8% in Kangsi but unchanged those in Hongyingzi. The abundance of cutin monomers were relatively stable for cv Hongyingzi, excepting for a decrease of ω-hydroxyacids from 35.0% to 27.4% in drought-stressed plants. However, for cv Kangsi, the abundance of ω-hydroxyacids decreased from 36.8% to 21.0% and that of alkanoic acids increased from 30.5% to 37.1% in drought-stressed plants. Drought increased total wax coverage in Hongyingzi but reduced it in Kangsi. However, the abundance of aldehydes decreased from 51.2% to 39.3% in drought-stressed cv Kangsi, but increased from 25.2% to 36.1% in drought-stressed cv Hongyingzi. A decrease of sterols (by 76%) and an increase of primary alcohol (by 443%) was also observed in drought-stressed cv Hongyingzi. Transcriptome analysis also revealed that many genes implicated by homology in cutin monomer and cuticular wax biosynthesis also differed in their responses to drought stress between the two sorghum cultivars. Therefore, sorghum cultivars differed in their mechanisms in adjusting chemical profiles of both cutin and cuticular wax under water deficit condition.
Stomatal density (SD) and stomatal complex area (SCA) are important traits that regulate gas exchange and abiotic stress response in plants. Despite sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) adaptation to arid conditions, the genetic potential of stomata-related traits remains unexplored due to challenges in available phenotyping methods. Hence, identifying loci that control stomatal traits is fundamental to designing strategies to breed sorghum with optimized stomatal regulation. We implemented both classical and deep learning methods to characterize genetic diversity in 311 grain sorghum accessions for stomatal traits at two different field environments. Nearly 12,000 images collected from abaxial (Ab) and adaxial (Ad) leaf surfaces revealed substantial variation in stomatal traits. Our study demonstrated significant accuracy between manual and deep learning methods in predicting SD and SCA. In sorghum, SD was 32%-39% greater on the Ab versus the Ad surface, while SCA on the Ab surface was 2%-5% smaller than on the Ad surface. Genome-Wide Association Study identified 71 genetic loci (38 were environment-specific) with significant genotype to phenotype associations for stomatal traits. Putative causal genes underlying the phenotypic variation were identified. Accessions with similar SCA but carrying contrasting haplotypes for SD were tested for stomatal conductance and carbon assimilation under field conditions. Our findings provide a foundation for further studies on the genetic and molecular mechanisms controlling stomata patterning and regulation in sorghum. An integrated physiological, deep learning, and genomic approach allowed us to unravel the genetic control of natural variation in stomata traits in sorghum, which can be applied to other plants.
Jasmonates (JAs) are important for plants to coordinate growth, reproduction, and defense responses. In JA signaling, jasmonate ZIM-domain (JAZ) proteins serve as master regulators at the initial stage of herbivores attacks. Although discovered in many plant species, little in-depth characterization of JAZ gene expression has been reported in the agronomically important crop, maize (Zea mays L.). In this study 16 JAZ genes from the maize genome were identified and classified. Phylogenetic analyses were performed from maize, rice, sorghum, Brachypodium, and Arabidopsis using deduced protein sequences, total six clades were proposed and conservation was observed in each group, such as similar gene exon/intron structures. Synteny analysis across four monocots indicated these JAZ gene families had a common ancestor, and duplication events in maize genome may drive the expansion of JAZ gene family, including genome-wide duplication (GWD), transposon, and/or tandem duplication. Strong purifying selection acted on all JAZ genes except those in group 4, which were under neutral selection. Further, we cloned three paralogous JAZ gene pairs from two maize inbreds differing in JA levels and insect resistance, and gene polymorphisms were observed between two inbreds. Here we analyzed the composition and evolution of JAZ genes in maize with three other monocot plants. Extensive phylogenetic and synteny analysis revealed the expansion and selection fate of maize JAZ. This is the first study comparing the difference between two inbreds, and we propose genotype-specific JAZ gene expression might be present in maize plants. Since genetic redundancy in JAZ gene family hampers our understanding of their role in response to specific elicitors, we hope this research could be pertinent to elucidating the defensive responses in plants.
Spotted stem borer- Chilo partellus - a Lepidopteran insect pest of Sorghum bicolor is responsible for major economic losses. It is an oligophagous pest, which bores through the plant stem, causing 'deadheart' and hampering the development of the main cob. We applied a label-free quantitative proteomics approach on three genotypes of S. bicolor with differential resistance/ susceptibility to insect pests, intending to identify the S. bicolor's systemic protein complement contributing to C. partellus tolerance. The proteomes of S. bicolor with variable resistance to insect pests, ICSV700, IS2205 (resistant) and Swarna (susceptible) were investigated and compared using label-free quantitative proteomics to identify putative leaf proteins contributing to resistance to C. partellus. The multivariate analysis on a total of 967 proteins led to the identification of proteins correlating with insect resistance/susceptibility of S. bicolor. Upon C. partellus infestation S. bicolor responded by suppression of protein and amino acid biosynthesis, and induction of proteins involved in maintaining photosynthesis and responding to stresses. The gene ontology analysis revealed that C. partellus-responsive proteins in resistant S. bicolor genotypes were mainly involved in stress and defense, small molecule biosynthesis, amino acid metabolism, catalytic and translation regulation activities. At steady-state, the resistant S. bicolor genotypes displayed at least two-fold higher numbers of unique proteins than the susceptible genotype Swarna, mostly involved in catalytic activities. Gene expression analysis of selected candidates was performed on S. bicolor by artificial induction to mimic C. partellus infestation. The collection of identified proteins differentially expressed in resistant S. bicolor, are interesting candidates for further elucidation of their role in defense against insect pests.
Strigolactones (SLs), first identified as germination stimulants for root parasitic weeds, act as endogenous phytohormones regulating shoot branching and as root-derived signal molecules mediating symbiotic communications in the rhizosphere. Canonical SLs typically have an ABCD ring system and can be classified into orobanchol- and strigol-type based on the C-ring stereochemistry. Their simplest structures are 4-deoxyorobanchol (4DO) and 5-deoxystrigol (5DS), respectively. Diverse canonical SLs are chemically modified with one or more hydroxy or acetoxy groups introduced into the A- and/or B-ring of these simplest structures, but the biochemical mechanisms behind this structural diversity remain largely unexplored. Sorgomol in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench) is a strigol-type SL with a hydroxy group at C-9 of 5DS. In this study, we characterized sorgomol synthase. Microsomal fractions prepared from a high-sorgomol-producing cultivar of sorghum, Sudax, were shown to convert 5DS to sorgomol. A comparative transcriptome analysis identified SbCYP728B subfamily as candidate genes encoding sorgomol synthase. Recombinant SbCYP728B35 catalyzed the conversion of 5DS to sorgomol in vitro. Substrate specificity revealed that the C-8bS configuration in the C-ring of 5DS stereoisomers was essential for this reaction. The overexpression of SbCYP728B35 in Lotus japonicus hairy roots, which produce 5DS as an endogenous SL, also resulted in the conversion of 5DS to sorgomol. Furthermore, SbCYP728B35 expression was not detected in nonsorgomol-producing cultivar, Abu70, suggesting that this gene is responsible for sorgomol production in sorghum. Identification of the mechanism modifying parental 5DS of strigol-type SLs provides insights on how plants biosynthesize diverse SLs.
Methyl Jasmonate (MeJA) could promote the opening of sorghum florets, but the molecular mechanism remains unclear. We aimed to investigate the molecular mechanism of exogenous MeJA in promoting the opening of sorghum florets. Hybrid sorghum Aikang-8 was selected as the test material in this study. Sorghum plants of uniform growth with approximately 20%-25% florets open were selected and treated with 0, 0.5 and 2.0 mmol/L of MeJA. Totally there were 27 samples with lodicules removed were obtained at different time points and used for the transcriptome analysis using the BGISEQ_500RS platform. The results showed the sorghum florets opened earlier than the control after the treatment with exogenous MeJA, and the promotive effect increased along with the increase of exogenous MeJA concentration. The number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in plasma cells increased with the increase of MeJA concentration, whether up- or down-regulated, after the exogenous MeJA treatment. Besides, the number of metabolic pathways was also positively correlated with the concentration of MeJA. GO and KEGG analysis suggested the DEGs were mainly enriched in starch and sucrose metabolism-related pathways (i.e., LOC8063704, LOC8083539 and LOC8056206), plant hormone signal transduction pathways (i.e., LOC8084842, LOC8072010, and LOC8057408), energy metabolic pathway (i.e., LOC8076139) and the α-linolenic acid metabolic pathway (i.e., LOC8055636, LOC8057399, LOC8063048 and LOC110430730). Functional analysis of target genes showed that two genes named LOC-1 (LOC8063704) and LOC-2 (LOC8076139) could induce the earlier flowering of Arabidopsis thaliana. The results of this study suggest that exogenous MeJA treatments could induce the up- or down- regulation of genes related to starch and sucrose metabolism, -linolenic acid metabolism and plant hormone signal transduction pathways in the plasma cells of sorghum florets, thereby promoting the opening of sorghum florets.
TAZ (transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding) zinc finger domains, also known as transcription adaptor putative zinc finger domains, that control diverse function in plant growth and development. Here, in the present study, we evaluated the role of the TAZ domain-containing gene in response to various heavy metals. Initially, we found a total of 3, 7, 8, 9, 9, 9, 7, 14, 6, 10, and 6 proteins containing TAZ domain in stiff brome, millet, sorghum, potato, pepper, maize, rice, apple, peach, pear, and tomato genome that could trigger the plant resistance against various heavy metals, respectively. Various in-silico approaches were applied such as duplication, phylogenetic analysis, and gene structure, to understand the basic features of the TAZ domain-containing genes in plants. Gene expression analyses were also performed under heavy metals (Cr, Zn, Ni, Cd, Co, Fe, Mn, and Pb). The results of quantitative real-time PCR analysis indicated that the TAZ gene family members were differentially expressed under different heavy metals. We further characterized the functions of the TAZ domain-containing gene under the heavy metal stresses by overexpressing the OsTAZ4 gene in Arabidopsis. The TAZ genes could promote plant resistance against various heavy metals by interacting with OsMYB34 and OsFHA9 transcription factors. The results will contribute to elucidate the relationship of TAZ proteins with heavy metals stresses and also ascertain the biological function in plant growth and development.
Sorghum is an essential food crop for millions of people in the semi-arid regions of the world, where its production is severely limited by drought stress. Drought in the early stages of crop growth and development irreversibly interferes, which leads to poor yield. The effect of drought stress in sorghum was studied at physiological, biochemical, and molecular levels in a set of two genotypes differing in their tolerance to drought. Drought stress was imposed by restraining water for 10 days on 25 days old seedlings. A significant influence of water stress was observed on the considered morpho-physiological and biochemical traits. The genotype DRT1019 exhibited physiological and biochemical indicators of drought avoidance through delayed leaf rolling, osmotic adjustment, ideal gas-exchange system, solute accumulation, an increased level of enzyme synthesis and root trait expression as compared to the ICSV95022 genotype. Furthermore, differences in the metabolite changes viz. total carbohydrate, total amides, and lipids were found between the two genotypes under drought stress. In addition, transcript profiling of potential candidate drought genes such as SbTIP3-1, SbDHN1, SbTPS, and SbDREB1A revealed up-regulation in DRT1019, which corresponded with other important physiological and biochemical parameters exhibited in the genotype. In conclusion, this study provides an improved understanding of whole plant response to drought stress in sorghum. Additionally, our results provide promising candidate genes for drought tolerance in sorghum that can be used as potential markers for drought tolerance breeding programs.
Histones belong to a family of highly conserved proteins in eukaryotes. They pack DNA into nucleosomes as functional units of chromatin. Post-translational modifications (PTMs) of histones, which are highly dynamic and can be added or removed by enzymes, play critical roles in regulating gene expression. In plants, epigenetic factors, including histone PTMs, are related to their adaptive responses to the environment. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of epigenetic control can bring unprecedented opportunities for innovative bioengineering solutions. Herein, we describe a protocol to isolate the nuclei and purify histones from sorghum leaf tissue. The extracted histones can be analyzed in their intact forms by top-down mass spectrometry (MS) coupled with online reversed-phase (RP) liquid chromatography (LC). Combinations and stoichiometry of multiple PTMs on the same histone proteoform can be readily identified. In addition, histone tail clipping can be detected using the top-down LC-MS workflow, thus, yielding the global PTM profile of core histones (H4, H2A, H2B, H3). We have applied this protocol previously to profile histone PTMs from sorghum leaf tissue collected from a large-scale field study, aimed at identifying epigenetic markers of drought resistance. The protocol could potentially be adapted and optimized for chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-seq), or for studying histone PTMs in similar plants.
Maize (Zea mays L.) is a major cereal crop, with the United States accounting for over 40% of the worldwide production. Corn leaf aphid [CLA; Rhopalosiphum maidis (Fitch)] is an economically important pest of maize and several other monocot crops. In addition to feeding damage, CLA acts as a vector for viruses that cause devastating diseases in maize. We have shown previously that the maize inbred line Mp708, which was developed by classical plant breeding, provides heightened resistance to CLA. However, the transcriptomic variation conferring CLA resistance to Mp708 has not been investigated. In this study, we contrasted the defense responses of the resistant Mp708 genotype to those of the susceptible Tx601 genotype at the transcriptomic (mRNA-seq) and volatile blend levels. Our results suggest that there was a greater transcriptomic remodeling in Mp708 plants in response to CLA infestation compared to the Tx601 plants. These transcriptomic signatures indicated an activation of hormonal pathways, and regulation of sesquiterpenes and terpenoid synthases in a constitutive and inducible manner. Transcriptomic analysis also revealed that the resistant Mp708 genotype possessed distinct regulation of ethylene and jasmonic acid pathways before and after aphid infestation. Finally, our results also highlight the significance of constitutive production of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in Mp708 and Tx601 plants that may contribute to maize direct and/or indirect defense responses. This study provided further insights to understand the role of defense signaling networks in Mp708's resistance to CLA.
Virtually all land plants are coated in a cuticle, a waxy polyester that prevents nonstomatal water loss and is important for heat and drought tolerance. Here, we describe a likely genetic basis for a divergence in cuticular wax chemistry between
Phenotypes such as branching, photoperiod sensitivity, and height were modified during plant domestication and crop improvement. Here, we perform quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping of these and other agronomic traits in a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from an interspecific cross between Sorghum propinquum and Sorghum bicolor inbred Tx7000. Using low-coverage Illumina sequencing and a bin-mapping approach, we generated ∼1920 bin markers spanning ∼875 cM. Phenotyping data were collected and analyzed from two field locations and one greenhouse experiment for six agronomic traits, thereby identifying a total of 30 QTL. Many of these QTL were penetrant across environments and co-mapped with major QTL identified in other studies. Other QTL uncovered new genomic regions associated with these traits, and some of these were environment-specific in their action. To further dissect the genetic underpinnings of tillering, we complemented QTL analysis with transcriptomics, identifying 6189 genes that were differentially expressed during tiller bud elongation. We identified genes such as Dormancy Associated Protein 1 (DRM1) in addition to various transcription factors that are differentially expressed in comparisons of dormant to elongating tiller buds and lie within tillering QTL, suggesting that these genes are key regulators of tiller elongation in sorghum. Our study demonstrates the usefulness of this RIL population in detecting domestication and improvement-associated genes in sorghum, thus providing a valuable resource for genetic investigation and improvement to the sorghum community.
The biological pathways related to Arabidopsis seed development have been well studied and functional genes involved in it have been discovered. However, functional studies about maize seed development were more limited compared to Arabidopsis. Therefore, transferring knowledge from Arabidopsis into maize would facilitate functional studies about maize seed development. In this study, public transcriptome data of the two species related to seed development were obtained. Co-expression network in each species was compared by integrating orthology information. This conserved co-functional network contained 4510 maize and 4808 Arabidopsis genes, respectively. Most of these genes were expressed in throughout embryo, early or later endosperm/seed. These conserved co-functional genes were significantly enriched for members of PPR protein family, which was consistent with that PPR proteins play an important role in maize seed development. Spatial-temporally co-functional genes were discovered in the seed coat and embryo. Furthermore, 66 well-studied genes involved in Arabidopsis seed development were co-functional with 319 maize genes and one maize gene (GRMZM2G036050) was further confirmed using an EMS-induced seed defective mutant by bulked segregating RNA sequencing (BSR) analysis. Altogether, these results showed the potential of this approach to support functional studies in maize seed development by transferring knowledge from Arabidopsis.
Heterosis helps increase the biomass of many crops; however, while models for its mechanisms have been proposed, it is not yet fully understood. Here, we use a QTL analysis of the progeny of a high-biomass sorghum F
Root pressure, also manifested as profusive sap flowing from cut stems, is a phenomenon in some species that has perplexed biologists for much of the last century. It is associated with increased crop production under drought, but its function and regulation remain largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the initiation, mechanisms, and possible adaptive function of root pressure in six genotypes of
Maintenance of growth is important for sustaining yield under stress conditions. Hence, identification of genes involved in cell division and growth under abiotic stress is utmost important. Ras-related nuclear protein (Ran) is a small GTPase required for nucleocytoplasmic transport, mitotic progression, and nuclear envelope assembly in plants. In the present study, two Ran GTPase genes TaRAN1 and TaRAN2 were identified though genome-wide analysis in wheat (T. aestivum). Comparative analysis of Ran GTPases from wheat, barley, rice, maize, sorghum, and Arabidopsis revealed similar gene structure within phylogenetic clades and highly conserved protein structure. Expression analysis from expVIP platform showed ubiquitous expression of TaRAN genes across tissues and developmental stages. Under biotic and abiotic stresses, TaRAN1 expression was largely unaltered, while TaRAN2 showed stress specific response. In qRT-PCR analysis, TaRAN1 showed significantly higher expression as compared to TaRAN2 in shoot and root at seedling, vegetative, and reproductive stages. During progressive drought stress, TaRAN1 and TaRAN2 expression increase during early stress and restored to control level expression at higher stress levels in shoot. The steady-state level of transcripts was maintained to that of control in roots under drought stress. Under cold stress, expression of both the TaRAN genes decreased significantly at 3 h and became similar to control at 6 h in shoots, while salt stress significantly reduced the expression of TaRAN genes in shoots. The analysis suggests differential regulation of TaRAN genes under developmental stages and abiotic stresses. Delineating the molecular functions of Ran GTPases will help unravel the mechanism of stress induced growth inhibition in wheat.
Production of biofuels from lignocellulosic crop biomass is an alternative to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The biofuel production involves collecting biomass, breaking down cell wall components followed by the conversion of sugars to ethanol. The lingo-cellulosic biomass comprises 40-50% cellulose, 20-30% hemicellulose, and 10-25% lignin. Sorghum is a widely adapted energy crop for biofuel production. Biomass with low lignin, high cellulose, and high hemicellulose contents are exploited to attain maximum biofuel production efficiency. Resistance to lodging, pest, disease, and abiotic stresses related to cell wall components is well documented, and quantitative trait loci were identified to understand these traits' genetic correlation. Selection for reduced lignin and increased cellulose content in stover can increase the ethanol yield. The Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) is a complementary approach to evaluating the marker and phenotype associations among large diversity panels. Single nucleotide polymorphisms were scanned to identify loci associated with the traits of interest. In this study, the GWAS was performed on 245 sorghum minicore genotypes to analyze agronomic traits (days to 50%flowering, fresh biomass yield, dry biomass yield) and cell wall components (cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin). Further, in-silico validation of the candidate genes was performed in a global gene expression data from large-scale RNA sequencing studies in sorghum available in the NCBI GEO database was used. The objectives of this study are to evaluate native variations in biofuel related agronomic traits and stalk cell wall components and to identify significant SNPs or loci related to the cell wall components. In this article, an association mapping panel, comprising of 245 sorghum minicore germplasm accessions, was evaluated during two post rainy seasons of 2013 and 2014, and observations were recorded on the whole plot- for days to 50% flowering, fresh biomass yield (tha High broad-sense heritability was exhibited for all the traits in individual seasons along with significant genotype × environment interaction across seasons except lignin. Association mapping with a P < 1×10 This study reports large variability for agronomic and biofuel traits in the sorghum minicore collection with high heritability. The genetic architecture of cell wall components using the GWAS approach was studied and candidate genes for each component were annotated. These results give a better understanding of the genetic basis of the sorghum cell wall composition. The association analysis identified regions of the genome that could be targeted to enhance the quality of biomass and yield along with the desired composition promoting breeding efficiency for enhanced biofuel yield.
Malate transport shuttles atmospheric carbon into the Calvin-Benson cycle during NADP-ME C4 photosynthesis. Previous characterizations of several plant dicarboxylate transporters (DCT) showed that they efficiently exchange malate across membranes. Here, we identify and characterize a previously unknown member of the DCT family, DCT4, in Sorghum bicolor. We show that SbDCT4 exchanges malate across membranes and its expression pattern is consistent with a role in malate transport during C4 photosynthesis. SbDCT4 is not syntenic to the characterized photosynthetic gene ZmDCT2, and an ortholog is not detectable in the maize reference genome. We found that the expression patterns of DCT family genes in the leaves of Zea mays, and S. bicolor varied by cell type. Our results suggest that subfunctionalization, of members of the DCT family, for the transport of malate into the bundle sheath plastids, occurred during the process of independent recurrent evolution of C4 photosynthesis in grasses of the PACMAD clade. We also show that this subfunctionalization is lineage independent. Our results challenge the dogma that key C4 genes must be orthologues of one another among C4 species, and shed new light on the evolution of C4 photosynthesis.
Accessible chromatin regions (ACRs) provide physical scaffolds to recruit transcriptional co-regulators and displace their nearby nucleosomes in multiple plant species. Characterization of ACRs and investigation of their biological effects in
Sorgoleone, a hydrophobic compound exuded from root hair cells of Sorghum spp., accounts for much of the allelopathic activity of the genus. The enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of this compound have been identified and functionally characterized. Here, we report the successful assembly of the biosynthetic pathway and the significant impact of in vivo synthesized sorgoleone on the heterologous host Nicotiana benthamiana. A multigene DNA construct was prepared for the expression of genes required for sorgoleone biosynthesis in planta and deployed in N. benthamiana leaf tissues via Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression. RNA-sequencing was conducted to investigate the effects of sorgoleone, via expression of its biosynthesis pathway, on host gene expression. The production of sorgoleone in agroinfiltrated leaves as detected by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) resulted in the formation of necrotic lesions, indicating that the compound caused severe phytotoxicity to these tissues. RNA-sequencing profiling revealed significant changes in gene expression in the leaf tissues expressing the pathway during the formation of sorgoleone-induced necrotic lesions. Transcriptome analysis suggested that the compound produced in vivo impaired the photosynthetic system as a result of downregulated gene expression for the photosynthesis apparatus and elevated expression of proteasomal genes which may play a major role in the phytotoxicity of sorgoleone.
Wax accumulation on the sorghum surface plays an important role in drought tolerance by preventing non-stomatal water loss. Thereby, the effect of post-flowering drought stress (PFDS) on the epicuticular wax (EW) amount, relative water content (RWC), chlorophyll, and grain yield in sorghum drought contrasting genotypes were investigated. The experiment was conducted as a split-plot based on randomized complete block design (RCBD) with two water treatments (normal watering and water holding after 50% flowering stage), and three genotypes (Kimia and KGS23 as drought-tolerant and Sepideh as drought-susceptible). Scanning electron microscopy and GC-MS analyses were used to determine the wax crystals density and its compositions, respectively. In addition, based on literature reviews and publicly available datasets, six wax biosynthesis drought stress-responsive genes were chosen for expression analysis. The results showed that the amounts of EW and wax crystals density were increased in Kimia and Sepideh genotypes and no changed in KGS23 genotype under drought stress. Chemical compositions of wax were classified into six major groups including alkanes, fatty acids, aldehydes, esters, alcohols, and cyclic compounds. Alkanes increment in drought-tolerant genotypes led to make an effective barrier against the drought stress to control water losses. In addition, the drought-tolerant genotypes had higher levels of RWC compared to the drought-susceptible ones, resulted in higher yield produced under drought condition. According to the results, SbWINL1, FATB, and CER1 genes play important roles in drought-induced wax biosynthesis. The results of the present study revealed a comprehensive view of the wax and its compositions and some involved genes in sorghum under drought stress.
The purpose of this data set is to capture the complete diurnal (i.e., daily) transcriptome of fully expanded third leaves from the C4 panacoid grasses sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), maize (Zea mays), and foxtail millet (Setaria italica) with RNA-seq transcriptome profiling. These data are the cornerstone of a larger project that examined the conservation and divergence of gene expression networks within these crop plants. This data set focuses on temporal changes in gene expression to identify the network architecture responsible for daily regulation of plant growth and metabolic activities. The power of this data set is fine temporal resolution combined with continuous sampling over multiple days. The data set is 72 individual RNA-seq samples representing 24 time course samples each for sorghum, maize, and foxtail millet plants cultivated in a growth chamber under equal intervals of light and darkness. The 24 samples are separated by 3-h intervals so that the data set is a fine scale 72-h analysis of gene expression in the leaves of each plant type. FASTQ files from Illumina sequencing are available at the National Center for Biotechnology Information Sequence Read Archive.
For many plants, their symbiosis with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi plays a key role in the acquisition of mineral nutrients such as inorganic phosphate (Pi), in exchange for assimilated carbon. To study gene regulation and function in the symbiotic partners, we and others have used compartmented microcosms in which the extra-radical mycelium (ERM), responsible for mineral nutrient supply for the plants, was separated by fine nylon nets from the associated host roots and could be harvested and analysed in isolation. Here, we used such a model system to perform a quantitative comparative protein profiling of the ERM of Rhizophagus irregularis BEG75, forming a common mycorrhizal network (CMN) between poplar and sorghum roots under a long-term high- or low-Pi fertilization regime. Proteins were extracted from the ERM and analysed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. This workflow identified a total of 1301 proteins, among which 162 displayed a differential amount during Pi limitation, as monitored by spectral counting. Higher abundances were recorded for proteins involved in the mobilization of external Pi, such as secreted acid phosphatase, 3',5'-bisphosphate nucleotidase, and calcium-dependent phosphotriesterase. This was also the case for intracellular phospholipase and lysophospholipases that are involved in the initial degradation of phospholipids from membrane lipids to mobilize internal Pi. In Pi-deficient conditions. The CMN proteome was especially enriched in proteins assigned to beta-oxidation, glyoxylate shunt and gluconeogenesis, indicating that storage lipids rather than carbohydrates are fuelled in ERM as the carbon source to support hyphal growth and energy requirements. The contrasting pattern of expression of AM-specific fatty acid biosynthetic genes between the two plants suggests that in low Pi conditions, fatty acid provision to the fungal network is mediated by sorghum roots but not by poplar. Loss of enzymes involved in arginine synthesis coupled to the mobilization of proteins involved in the breakdown of nitrogen sources such as intercellular purines and amino acids, support the view that ammonium acquisition by host plants through the mycorrhizal pathway may be reduced under low-Pi conditions. This proteomic study highlights the functioning of a CMN in Pi limiting conditions, and provides new perspectives to study plant nutrient acquisition as mediated by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi.
The zig-zag model of host-pathogen interaction describes the relative strength of defense response across a spectrum of pathogen-induced plant phenotypes. A stronger defense response results in increased resistance. Here, we investigate the strength of pathogen virulence during disease and place these findings in the context of the zig-zag model. Xanthomonas vasicola pv. holcicola (Xvh) causes sorghum bacterial leaf streak. Despite being widespread, this disease has not been described in detail at the molecular level. We divided diverse sorghum genotypes into three groups based on disease symptoms: water-soaked lesions, red lesions, and resistance. Bacterial growth assays confirmed that these three phenotypes represent a range of resistance and susceptibility. To simultaneously reveal defense and virulence responses across the spectrum of disease phenotypes, we performed dual RNA-seq on Xvh-infected sorghum. Consistent with the zig-zag model, the expression of plant defense-related genes was strongest in the resistance interaction. Surprisingly, bacterial virulence genes related to the type III secretion system (T3SS) and type III effectors (T3Es) were also most highly expressed in the resistance interaction. This expression pattern was observed at multiple time points within the sorghum-Xvh pathosystem. Further, a similar expression pattern was observed in Arabidopsis infected with Pseudomonas syringae for effector-triggered immunity via AvrRps4 but not AvrRpt2. Specific metabolites were able to repress the Xvh virulence response in vitro and in planta suggesting a possible signaling mechanism. Taken together, these findings reveal multiple permutations of the continually evolving host-pathogen arms race from the perspective of host defense and pathogen virulence responses.
The stems of bioenergy sorghum hybrids at harvest are > 4 m long, contain > 40 internodes and account for ~ 80% of harvested biomass. In this study, bioenergy sorghum hybrids were grown at four planting densities (~ 20,000 to 132,000 plants/ha) under field conditions for 60 days to investigate the impact shading has on stem growth and biomass accumulation. Increased planting density induced a > 2-fold increase in sorghum internode length and a ~ 22% decrease in stem diameter, a typical shade avoidance response. Shade-induced internode elongation was due to an increase in cell length and number of cells spanning the length of internodes. SbGA3ox2 (Sobic.003G045900), a gene encoding the last step in GA biosynthesis, was expressed ~ 20-fold higher in leaf collar tissue of developing phytomers in plants grown at high vs. low density. Application of GA3 to bioenergy sorghum increased plant height, stem internode length, cell length and the number of cells spanning internodes. Prior research showed that sorghum plants lacking phytochrome B, a key photoreceptor involved in shade signaling, accumulated more GA1 and displayed shade avoidance phenotypes. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that increasing planting density induces expression of GA3-oxidase in leaf collar tissue, increasing synthesis of GA that stimulates internode elongation.
This report shows detailed characterization of LOX gene family in sorghum and provides new insight of sorghum LOX genes in genetic structure and their roles in plant response to infestation by sugarcane aphids. Lipoxygenases (LOXs) are monomeric, nonheme iron-containing dioxygenases that initiate the fatty acid oxidation pathway creating oxylipins and plant hormone jasmonate both have a key role in plant development and defense. To date, a comprehensive and systematic analysis of sorghum LOXs is still deficient. Thus, we performed a genome-wide analysis of the sorghum LOXs genome and identified nine LOXs genes. Detailed examination of protein sequences and phylogenetic analysis categorized the sorghum LOXs into two subclasses, 9-LOXs (SbLOX1, SbLOX3, SbLOX4, SbLOXm, and SbLOXo), 13-LOXs (SbLOX9, SbLOX5, and SbLOX2), and the unclassified SbLOX8. This classification was further supported by sequence similarity/identity matrix and subcellular localization analysis. The lipoxygenase domains, motifs, and vital amino acids were highly conserved in all sorghum LOX genes. In silico analysis of the promoter region of SbLOXs identified different hormones responsive cis-elements. Furthermore, to explore the roles of sorghum LOXs during sugarcane aphid feeding and exogenous MeJA application, expression analysis was conducted for all the eight LOXs in resistant (Tx2783) and susceptible (Tx7000) sorghum lines, respectively. As detailed in this report, the data generated from both genome-wide identification and expression analysis of lipoxygenase genes suggest the putative functions of two 13-LOXs (SbLOX9 and SbLOX5) and three 9-LOXs (SbLOX1, SbLOX3, and SbLOXo) in biosynthesis of jasmonic acid, green leaf volatiles and death acids, and all of them are involved in defense-related functions in plants. Furthermore, this report represents the first genome-wide analysis of the LOX gene family in sorghum, which will facilitate future studies to characterize the roles of each individual LOXs gene in aphid resistance and defense responses to other stresses.
Sorghum bicolor (SB) is rich in protective phytoconstituents with health benefits and regarded as a promising source of natural anti-diabetic substance. However, its comprehensive bioactive compound(s) and mechanism(s) against type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) have not been exposed. Hence, we implemented network pharmacology to identify its key compounds and mechanism(s) against T2DM. Compounds in SB were explored through GC-MS and screened by Lipinski's rule. Genes associated with the selected compounds or T2DM were extracted from public databases, and the overlapping genes between SB-compound related genes and T2DM target genes were identified using Venn diagram. Then, the networking between selected compounds and overlapping genes was constructed, visualized, and analyzed by RStudio. Finally, affinity between compounds and genes was evaluated via molecular docking. GC-MS analysis of SB detected a total of 20 compounds which were accepted by the Lipinski's rule. A total number of 16 compounds-related genes and T2DM-related genes (4,763) were identified, and 81 overlapping genes between them were selected. Gene set enrichment analysis exhibited that the mechanisms of SB against T2DM were associated with 12 signaling pathways, and the key mechanism might be to control blood glucose level by activating PPAR signaling pathway. Furthermore, the highest affinities were noted between four main compounds and six genes (FABP3-Propyleneglyco monoleate, FABP4-25-Oxo-27-norcholesterol, NR1H3-Campesterol, PPARA-β-sitosterol, PPARD-β-sitosterol, and PPARG-β-sitosterol). Our study overall suggests that the four key compounds detected in SB might ameliorate T2DM severity by activating the PPAR signaling pathway.
Millets are the strategic food crops in arid and drought-prone ecologies. Millets, by virtue of nature, are very well-adapted to drought conditions and able to produce sustainable yield. Millets have important nutrients that can help prevent micro-nutrient malnutrition. As a result of the adverse effect of climate change and widespread malnutrition, millets have attained a strategic position to sustain food and nutritional security. Although millets can adapt well to the drought ecologies where other cereals fail completely, the yield level is very low under stress. There is a tremendous opportunity to increase the genetic potential of millet crops in dry lands when the genetics of the drought-tolerance mechanism is fully explained. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are the class of small RNAs that control trait expression. They are part of the gene regulation but little studied in millets. In the present study, novel miRNAs and gene targets were identified from the genomic resources of pearl millet, sorghum, foxtail millet, finger millet, and proso millet through
Drought is the largest stress affecting agricultural crops, resulting in substantial reductions in yield. Plant adaptation to water stress is a complex trait involving changes in hormone signaling, physiology, and morphology. Sorghum (
Soils play important roles in biological productivity. While past work suggests that microbes affect soil health and respond to agricultural practices, it is not well known how soil management shapes crop host microbiomes. To elucidate the impact of management on microbial composition and function in the sorghum microbiome, we performed 16S rRNA gene and ITS2 amplicon sequencing and metatranscriptomics on soil and root samples collected from a site in California's San Joaquin Valley that is under long-term cultivation with 1) standard (ST) or no tilling (NT) and 2) cover-cropping (CC) or leaving the field fallow (NO). Our results revealed that microbial diversity, composition, and function change across tillage and cover type, with a heightened response in fungal communities, versus bacterial. Surprisingly, ST harbored greater microbial alpha diversity than NT, indicating that tillage may open niche spaces for broad colonization. Across management regimes, we observed class-level taxonomic level shifts. Additionally, we found significant functional restructuring across treatments, including enrichment for microbial lipid and carbohydrate transport and metabolism and cell motility with NT. Differences in carbon cycling were also observed, with increased prevalence of glycosyltransferase and glycoside hydrolase carbohydrate active enzyme families with CC. Lastly, treatment significantly influenced arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, which had the greatest prevalence and activity under ST, suggesting that soil practices mediate known beneficial plant-microbe relationships. Collectively, our results demonstrate how agronomic practices impact critical interactions within the plant microbiome and inform future efforts to configure trait-associated microbiomes in crops.
With the perpetuation of soil salinization, it is imperative to improve the salt and alkaline tolerance of crops.
Sugarcane is the most important sugar and biofuel crop. MADS-box genes encode transcription factors that are involved in developmental control and signal transduction in plants. Systematic analyses of MADS-box genes have been reported in many plant species, but its identification and characterization were not possible until a reference genome of autotetraploid wild type sugarcane specie, Saccharum spontaneum is available recently. We identified 182 MADS-box sequences in the S. spontaneum genome, which were annotated into 63 genes, including 6 (9.5%) genes with four alleles, 21 (33.3%) with three, 29 (46%) with two, 7 (11.1%) with one allele. Paralogs (tandem duplication and disperse duplicated) were also identified and characterized. These MADS-box genes were divided into two groups; Type-I (21 Mα, 4 Mβ, 4 Mγ) and Type-II (32 MIKCc, 2 MIKC*) through phylogenetic analysis with orthologs in Arabidopsis and sorghum. Structural diversity and distribution of motifs were studied in detail. Chromosomal localizations revealed that S. spontaneum MADS-box genes were randomly distributed across eight homologous chromosome groups. The expression profiles of these MADS-box genes were analyzed in leaves, roots, stem sections and after hormones treatment. Important alleles based on promoter analysis and expression variations were dissected. qRT-PCR analysis was performed to verify the expression pattern of pivotal S. spontaneum MADS-box genes and suggested that flower timing genes (SOC1 and SVP) may regulate vegetative development.
Climate change not only worries government representatives and organizations, but also attracts the attention of the scientific community in different contexts. In agriculture specifically, the cultivation and productivity of crops such as sugarcane, maize, and sorghum are influenced by several environmental factors. The effects of high atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide ([CO
Anthracnose is a damaging disease of sorghum caused by the fungal pathogen Colletotrichum sublineolum. Genome-wide mRNA and microRNA (miRNA) profiles of resistant and susceptible sorghum genotypes were studied to understand components of immune responses, and fungal induced miRNA and target gene networks. A total of 18 mRNA and 12 miRNA libraries from resistant and susceptible sorghum lines were sequenced prior to and after inoculation with C. sublineolum. Significant differences in transcriptomes of the susceptible and resistant genotypes were observed with dispersion distance and hierarchical cluster tree analyses. Of the total 33,032 genes predicted in the sorghum genome, 19,593 were induced by C. sublineolum, and 15,512 were differentially expressed (DEGs) between the two genotypes. The resistant line was marked by significant reprogramming of the transcriptome at 24 h post inoculation (hpi), and a decrease at 48 hpi, whereas the susceptible line displayed continued changes in gene expression concordant with elevated fungal growth in the susceptible genotype. DEGs encode proteins implicated in diverse functions including photosynthesis, synthesis of tetrapyrrole, carbohydrate and secondary metabolism, immune signaling, and chitin binding. Genes encoding immune receptors, MAPKs, pentatricopeptide repeat proteins, and WRKY transcription factors were induced in the resistant genotype. In a parallel miRNA profiling, the susceptible line displayed greater number of differentially expressed miRNAs than the resistant line indicative of a widespread suppression of gene expression. Interestingly, we found 75 miRNAs, including 36 novel miRNAs, which were differentially expressed in response to fungal inoculation. The expression of 50 miRNAs was significantly different between resistant and susceptible lines. Subsequently, for 35 differentially expressed miRNAs, the corresponding 149 target genes were identified. Expression of 56 target genes were significantly altered after inoculation, showing inverse expression with the corresponding miRNAs. We provide insights into genome wide dynamics of mRNA and miRNA profiles, biological and cellular processes underlying host responses to fungal infection in sorghum. Resistance is correlated with early transcriptional reprogramming of genes in various pathways. Fungal induced genes, miRNAs and their targets with a potential function in host responses to anthracnose were identified, opening avenues for genetic dissection of resistance mechanisms.
Miscanthus is a perennial wild grass that is of global importance for paper production, roofing, horticultural plantings, and an emerging highly productive temperate biomass crop. We report a chromosome-scale assembly of the paleotetraploid M. sinensis genome, providing a resource for Miscanthus that links its chromosomes to the related diploid Sorghum and complex polyploid sugarcanes. The asymmetric distribution of transposons across the two homoeologous subgenomes proves Miscanthus paleo-allotetraploidy and identifies several balanced reciprocal homoeologous exchanges. Analysis of M. sinensis and M. sacchariflorus populations demonstrates extensive interspecific admixture and hybridization, and documents the origin of the highly productive triploid bioenergy crop M. × giganteus. Transcriptional profiling of leaves, stem, and rhizomes over growing seasons provides insight into rhizome development and nutrient recycling, processes critical for sustainable biomass accumulation in a perennial temperate grass. The Miscanthus genome expands the power of comparative genomics to understand traits of importance to Andropogoneae grasses.
Serpins (serine protease inhibitors) constitute one of the largest and most widely distributed superfamilies of protease inhibitors and have been identified in nearly all organisms. To gain significant insights, a comprehensive in silico analysis of the serpin gene family was carried out in the model plant for temperate grasses
Plants reprogram gene expression as an adaptive response to survive high temperatures. While the identity and functions of intracellular heat stress-responsive proteins have been extensively studied, the heat response of proteins secreted to the extracellular matrix is unknown. Here, we used
A "smart canopy" ideotype has been proposed with leaves being upright at the top and more horizontal toward the bottom of the plant to maximize light interception and conversion efficiencies, and thus increasing yield. The genetic control of leaf angle has, to date, been studied on one or two leaves, or data have been merged from multiple leaves to generate average values. This approach has limited our understanding of the diversity of leaf angles across layers and their genetic control. Genome-wide association studies and quantitative trait loci mapping studies in sorghum (
Intracellular signaling is a critical determinant of the normal growth and development of plants. Signaling peptides, also known as peptide hormones, along with classical phytohormones, are the significant players of plant intracellular signaling. C-terminally encoded peptide (CEP), a 15-amino acid post-translationally peptide identified in Arabidopsis, plays a pivotal role in lateral root formation, nodulation, and act as long-distance root to shoot signaling molecule in N-starvation conditions. Expression of CEP gene members in Arabidopsis is perturbed by nitrogen starvation; however, not much is known regarding their role in other abiotic stress conditions. To gain a comprehensive insight into CEP biology, we identified CEP genes across diverse plant genera (
Protoplasts are commonly used in genetic and breeding research. In this study, the isolation of sorghum protoplasts was optimized and applied to transient gene expression and editing by CRISPR/Cas9. The protoplast was most viable in 0.5 M mannitol, which was the highest of three concentrations after 48- and 72-hours treatments. Using this method we can derive an average of 1.6×10
Molecular function ofRING E3 ligase SbHCI1is involved in ABA-mediated basal heat stress tolerancein sorghum. Global warming generally reduces plant survival, owing to the negative effects of high temperatures on plant development. However, little is known about the role of Really Interesting New Gene (RING) E3 ligase in the heat stress responses of plants. As such, the aim of the present study was to characterize the molecular functions of the Sorghum bicolor ortholog of the Oryza sativa gene for Heat- and Cold-Induced RING finger protein 1 (SbHCI1). Subcellular localization revealed that SbHCI1 was mainly associated with the cytosol and that it moved to the Golgi apparatus under heat stress conditions. The fluorescent signals of SbHCI1 substrate proteins were observed to migrate to the cytoplasm under heat stress conditions. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) and yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) assays revealed that SbHCI1 physically interacted with OsHCI1 ortholog partner proteins in the cytoplasm. Moreover, an in vitro ubiquitination assay revealed that SbHCI1 polyubiquitinated each of the three interacting proteins. The ectopic overexpression of SbHCI1 in Arabidopsis revealed that the protein was capable of inducing abscisic acid (ABA)-hypersensitivity and basal heat stress tolerance. Therefore, SbHCI1 possesses E3 ligase activity and may function as a positive regulator of heat stress responses through the modulation of interacting proteins.
The Salt Overly Sensitive (SOS) pathway is a crucial ion homeostasis process in crop plants trafficking excess Na
Herbicide application is crucial for weed management in most crop production systems, but for sorghum herbicide options are limited. Sorghum is sensitive to residual protoporphyrinogen oxidase (PPO)-inhibiting herbicides, such as fomesafen, and a long re-entry period is required before sorghum can be planted after its application. Improving sorghum for tolerance to such residual herbicides would allow for increased sorghum production and the expansion of herbicide options for growers. In this study, we observed sorghum tolerance to residual fomesafen. To investigate the underlying tolerance mechanism a genome-wide association mapping study was conducted using field-collected sorghum biomass panel (SBP) data, and a greenhouse assay was developed to confirm the field phenotypes. A total of 26 significant SNPs (FDR<0.05), spanning a 215.3 kb region on chromosome 3, were detected. The ten most significant SNPs included two in genic regions (Sobic.003G136800, and Sobic.003G136900) and eight SNPs in the intergenic region encompassing the genes Sobic.003G136700, Sobic.003G136800, Sobic.003G137000, Sobic.003G136900, and Sobic.003G137100. The gene Sobic.003G137100 (PPXI), which encodes the PPO1 enzyme, one of the targets of PPO-inhibiting herbicides, was located 12kb downstream of the significant SNP S03_13152838. We found that PPXI is highly conserved in sorghum and expression does not significantly differ between tolerant and sensitive sorghum lines. Our results suggest that PPXI most likely does not underlie the observed herbicide tolerance. Instead, the mechanism underlying herbicide tolerance in the SBP is likely metabolism-based resistance, possibly regulated by the action of multiple genes. Further research is necessary to confirm candidate genes and their functions.
Mechanosensitive ion channels are pore-forming transmembrane proteins that allow ions to move down their electrochemical gradient in response to mechanical stimuli. They participate in many plant developmental processes including the maintenance of plastid shape, pollen tube growth, etc. Herein, a total of 11, 10, 6, 30, 9, and 8 MSL genes were identified in Aegilops tauschii, Hordeum vulgare, Sorghum bicolor, Triticum aestivum, Triticum urartu, and Zea mays, respectively. These genes were located on various chromosomes of their respective cereal, while MSLs of T. urartu were found on scaffolds. The phylogenetic analysis, subcellular localization, and sequence homology suggested clustering of MSLs into two classes. These genes consisted of cis-regulatory elements related to growth and development, responsive to light, hormone, and stress. Differential expression of various MSL genes in tissue developmental stages and stress conditions revealed their precise role in development and stress responses. Altered expression during CaCl
APETALA2/ETHYLENE RESPONSIVE FACTOR (AP2/ERF) transcription factors play essential roles in plant growth, development, metabolism, and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. However, few studies concerning AP2/ERF genes in sugarcane which are the most critical sugar and energy crops worldwide. A total of 218 AP2/ERF genes were identified in the Saccharum spontaneum genome. Phylogenetic analysis showed that these genes could be divided into four groups, including 43 AP2s, 160 ERFs and Dehydration-responsive element-binding (DREB) factors, 11 ABI3/VPs (RAV), and four Soloist genes. These genes were unevenly distributed on 32 chromosomes. The structural analysis of SsAP2/ERF genes showed that 91 SsAP2/ERFs lacked introns. Sugarcane and sorghum had a collinear relationship between 168 SsAP2/ERF genes and sorghum AP2/ERF genes that reflected their similarity. Multiple cis-regulatory elements (CREs) present in the SsAP2/ERF promoter were related to abiotic stresses, suggesting that SsAP2/ERF activity could contribute to sugarcane adaptation to environmental changes. The tissue-specific analysis showed spatiotemporal expression of SsAP2/ERF in the stems and leaves of sugarcane at different development stages. In ten sugarcane samples, 39 SsAP2/ERFs were not expressed, whereas 58 SsAP2/ERFs were expressed in all samples. Quantitative PCR experiments showed that SsERF52 expression was up-regulated under salt stress, but suppressed under dehydration stress. SsSoloist4 had the most considerable upregulation in response to treatment with the exogenous hormones ABA and GA. Within 3 h of ABA or PEG6000 treatment, SsSoloist4 expression was up-regulated, indicating that this gene could play a role in the responses to ABA and GA-associated dehydration stress. Analysis of AP2/ERF gene expression patterns under different treatments indicated that SsAP2/ERF genes played an essential role in dehydration and salt stress responses of S. spontaneum. In this study, a total of 218 members of the AP2 / ERF superfamily were identified in sugarcane, and their genetic structure, evolution characteristics, and expression patterns were studied and analyzed. The results of this study provide a foundation for future analyses to elucidate the importance of AP2/ERF transcription factors in the function and molecular breeding of sugarcane.
Abscisic acid (ABA), a key phytohormone that controls plant growth and stress responses, is sensed by the pyrabactin resistance 1(PYR1)/PYR1-like (PYL)/regulatory components of the ABA receptor (RCAR) family of proteins. Comprehensive information on evolution and function of PYL gene family in rice (Oryza sativa) needs further investigation. This study made detailed analysis on evolutionary relationship between PYL family members, collinearity, synteny, gene structure, protein motifs, cis-regulatory elements (CREs), SNP variations, miRNAs targeting PYLs and expression profiles in different tissues and stress responses. Based on sequence homology with Arabidopsis PYL proteins, we identified a total of 13 PYLs in rice (BOP clade) and maize (PACCMAD clade), while other members of BOP (wheat - each diploid genome, barley and Brachypodium) and PACCMAD (sorghum and foxtail millet) have 8-9 PYLs. The phylogenetic analysis divided PYLs into three subfamilies that are structurally and functionally conserved across species. Gene structure and motif analysis of OsPYLs revealed that members of each subfamily have similar gene and motif structure. Segmental duplication appears be the driving force for the expansion of PYLs, and the majority of the PYLs underwent evolution under purifying selection in rice. 32 unique potential miRNAs that might target PYLs were identified in rice. Thus, the predicted regulation of PYLs through miRNAs in rice is more elaborate as compared with B. napus. Further, the miRNAs identified to in this study were also regulated by stresses, which adds additional layer of regulation of PYLs. The frequency of SAPs identified was higher in indica cultivars and were predominantly located in START domain that participate in ABA binding. The promoters of most of the OsPYLs have cis-regulatory elements involved in imparting abiotic stress responsive expression. In silico and q-RT-PCR expression analyses of PYL genes revealed multifaceted role of ABARs in shaping plant development as well as abiotic stress responses. The predicted miRNA mediated regulation of OsPYLs and stress regulated expression of all OsPYLs, at least, under one stress, lays foundation for further validation and fine tuning ABA receptors for stress tolerance without yield penalty in rice.
The Cadmium (Cd)-polluted soils are is an increasing concern worldwide. Phytoextraction of Cd pollutants by high biomass plants, such as sweet sorghum, is considered an environmentally-friendly, cost-effective and sustainable strategy for remediating this problem. Nitrogen (N) is a macronutrient essential for plant growth, development and stress resistance. Nevertheless, how nitrate, as an important form of N, affects Cd uptake, translocation and accumulation in sweet sorghum is still unclear. In the present study, a series of nitrate levels (N1, 0.5 mm; N2, 2 mm; N3, 4 mm; N4, 8 mm and N5, 16 mm) with or without added 5 μm CdCl
Among various abiotic stresses, water deficit hit the first in the list followed by heavy metal stresses as a serious environmental growth-limiting factor that restricts the global crop yield. Molecular approaches will help us to trace key regulators which are involved in stress-related phenomenon to enhance crop productivity. The present study functionally characterized one of the key regulators, OsMYB-R1 in Arabidopsis. Phylogenetic analyses indicated that OsMYB-R1 had a close relationship with Sorghum bicolour and Zea mays. Ectopic expression of OsMYB-R1 in Arabidopsis resulted in improved tolerance to PEG/drought and chromium stress in addition to conferring no tolerance to salinity stress. Further RNA seq. data revealed that OsMYB-R1 regulates the expression of key genes that improve the root architecture and maintain the cellular homeostasis of transgenic lines through an efficient anti-oxidant system. It also reveals the differential gene expression of stress-responsive and hormone-responsive genes, which indicate the intricate network of defense regulatory machinery activated in transgenic lines. Additionally, salicylic acid (SA) plays a significant role in promoting the growth of the OsMYB-R1 over-expressing plants and increased GUS intensity in SA treated OsMYB-R1 promoter plants demonstrate the explicit role of SA signaling in overcoming stress tolerance. Whereas no significant change was observed in OsMYB-R1 over-expressing plants after ABA and MeJA treatment. Overall, OsMYB-R1 is a promising gene resource for improving abiotic stress tolerance in other crops, especially in dicotyledon plants.
Thaumatin-like Proteins (TLPs) are known to play a vital role in plant defense, developmental processes and seed germination. We identified 19
In this study, soybean root distribution in an inter-cropping system was influenced by various environmental and biotic cues. However, it is still unknown how root development and distribution in inter-cropping responds to aboveground light conditions. Herein, soybeans were inter- and monocropped with P (phosphorus) treatments of 0 and 20 kg P ha yr
Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) is an important crop for biofuel production but it also serves as host for greenbugs (Schizaphis graminum Rondani; GB). Although transcriptomic studies have been done to infer the molecular mechanisms of plant defense against GB, little is known about the effect of GB infestation on the switchgrass protein expression and phosphorylation regulation. The global response of the switchgrass cultivar Summer proteome and phosphoproteome was monitored by label-free proteomics shotgun in GB-infested and uninfested control plants at 10 days post infestation. Peptides matching a total of 3,594 proteins were identified and 429 were differentially expressed proteins in GB-infested plants relative to uninfested control plants. Among these, 291 and 138 were up and downregulated by GB infestation, respectively. Phosphoproteome analysis identified 310 differentially phosphorylated proteins (DP) from 350 phosphopeptides with a total of 399 phosphorylated sites. These phosphopeptides had more serine phosphorylated residues (79%), compared to threonine phosphorylated sites (21%). Overall, KEGG pathway analysis revealed that GB feeding led to the enriched accumulation of proteins important for biosynthesis of plant defense secondary metabolites and repressed the accumulation of proteins involved in photosynthesis. Interestingly, defense modulators such as terpene synthase, papain-like cysteine protease, serine carboxypeptidase, and lipoxygenase2 were upregulated at the proteome level, corroborating previously published transcriptomic data.
The DnaJ/Hsp40s, are important components in the chaperone machine, and play pivotal roles in plant growth, development and stress tolerance. Sorghum, the semi-arid crop, is the drought resilient, model C
Aphid herbivory elicits plant defense-related networks that are influenced by host genetics. Plants of the upland switchgrass (
WRKY transcription factors regulate diverse biological processes in plants, including abiotic and biotic stress responses, and constitute one of the largest transcription factor families in higher plants. Although the past decade has seen significant progress towards identifying and functionally characterizing WRKY genes in diverse species, little is known about the WRKY family in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) moench). Here we report the comprehensive identification of 94 putative WRKY transcription factors (SbWRKYs). The SbWRKYs were divided into three groups (I, II, and III), with those in group II further classified into five subgroups (IIa-IIe), based on their conserved domains and zinc finger motif types. WRKYs from the model plant Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) were used for the phylogenetic analysis of all SbWRKY genes. Motif analysis showed that all SbWRKYs contained either one or two WRKY domains and that SbWRKYs within the same group had similar motif compositions. SbWRKY genes were located on all 10 sorghum chromosomes, and some gene clusters and two tandem duplications were detected. SbWRKY gene structure analysis showed that they contained 0-7 introns, with most SbWRKY genes consisting of two introns and three exons. Gene ontology (GO) annotation functionally categorized SbWRKYs under cellular components, molecular functions and biological processes. A cis-element analysis showed that all SbWRKYs contain at least one stress response-related cis-element. We exploited publicly available microarray datasets to analyze the expression profiles of 78 SbWRKY genes at different growth stages and in different tissues. The induction of SbWRKYs by different abiotic stresses hinted at their potential involvement in stress responses. qRT-PCR analysis revealed different expression patterns for SbWRKYs during drought stress. Functionally characterized WRKY genes in Arabidopsis and other species will provide clues for the functional characterization of putative orthologs in sorghum. Thus, the present study delivers a solid foundation for future functional studies of SbWRKY genes and their roles in the response to critical stresses such as drought.
MicroProteins are a class of small single-domain proteins that post-translationally regulate larger multidomain proteins from which they evolved or which they relate to. They disrupt the normal function of their targets by forming microProtein-target heterodimers through compatible protein-protein interaction (PPI) domains. Recent studies confirm the significance of microProteins in the fine-tuning of plant developmental processes such as shoot apical meristem maintenance and flowering time regulation. While there are a number of well-characterized microProteins in
An understanding of flower and panicle development is crucial for improving yield and quality in majority of grass crops. In this study, we used mapping-based cloning to identify
When exposed to drought stress many plants reprogram their gene expression to activate adaptive biochemical and physiological responses for survival. However, most of the well-studied adaptive responses are common between drought-sensitive and drought-tolerant species, making it difficult to identify the key mechanisms underpinning successful drought tolerance in crops. We developed a sorghum experimental system that compares between drought-sensitive (ICSB338) and enhanced drought-tolerant (SA1441) varieties. We show that sorghum activates a swift and robust stomatal shutdown to preserve leaf water content when water stress has been sensed. Water uptake is enhanced via increasing root cell water potential through the rapid biosynthesis of predominantly glycine betaine and an increased root-to-shoot ratio to explore more soil volume for water. In addition to stomatal responses, there is a prompt accumulation of proline in leaves and effective protection of chlorophyll during periods of water limitation. Root and stomatal functions rapidly recover from water limitation (within 24 h of re-watering) in the drought-tolerant variety, but recovery is impaired in the drought-sensitive sorghum variety. Analysis of the root proteome revealed complex protein networks that possibly underpin sorghum responses to water limitation. Common and unique protein changes between the two sorghum varieties provide new targets for future use in investigating sorghum drought tolerance.
Large scale cultivation of sorghum for food, feed, and biofuel requires concerted efforts for engineering multipurpose cultivars with optimised agronomic traits. Due to their vital role in regulating the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoid-derived compounds, biomass composition, biotic, and abiotic stress response, R2R3-MYB family transcription factors are ideal targets for improving environmental resilience and economic value of sorghum. We used diverse computational biology tools to survey the sorghum genome to identify R2R3-MYB transcription factors followed by their structural and phylogenomic analysis. We used in-house generated as well as publicly available high throughput expression data to analyse the R2R3 expression patterns in various sorghum tissue types. We have identified a total of 134 R2R3-MYB genes from sorghum and developed a framework to predict gene functions. Collating information from the physical location, duplication, structural analysis, orthologous sequences, phylogeny, and expression patterns revealed the role of duplications in clade-wise expansion of the R2R3-MYB family as well as intra-clade functional diversification. Using publicly available and in-house generated RNA sequencing data, we provide MYB candidates for conditioning biofuel syndrome by engineering phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and sugar signalling pathways in sorghum. The results presented here are pivotal to prioritize MYB genes for functional validation and optimize agronomic traits in sorghum.
Polyol transporters (PLTs), also called polyol/monosaccharide transporters, is of significance in determining plant development and sugar transportation. However, the diverged evolutionary patterns of the
Phenolic acids from Salvia miltiorrhiza have been widely used in nutritious, health-promoting products with an increasing demand. In the current study, two biosynthetic genes RAS (rosmarinic acid synthase) and CYP98A14 (a cytochrome P450-dependent monooxygenase) were successfully introduced into S. miltiorrhiza hairy roots. Overexpression of RAS and CYP98A14 resulted in higher content of phenolic acids (up to over 3-fold) in transgenic lines compared to the control. Meanwhile, DPPH results revealed that engineered S. miltiorrhiza hairy roots had stronger antioxidant activities than the control. In addition, phenolic acid crude extracts of the engineered hairy root lines overexpressing RAS or CYP98A14 showed improved antibacterial activities compared to the control lines. Our work exhibits a useful strategy for enhancement of phenolic acid production and bioactivities of S. miltiorrhiza hairy roots by genetic manipulation of RAS and CYP98A14, and also provides a new resource material to obtain active phenolic acids for food and healthy products.
The relative quantification of gene expression is mainly realized through reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). However, the accuracy of this technique is deeply influenced by the expression stability of the reference genes used for data normalization. Therefore, the selection of suitable reference genes for a given experimental condition is a prerequisite in gene expression studies. Dichelops melacanthus (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae) is an important phloem sap-sucking insect pest of soybean, wheat, and maize in Brazil. Most of the genetic and molecular biology studies require gene expression analysis. Nevertheless, there are no reports about reference genes for RT-qPCR data normalization in D. melacanthus. In this study, we evaluated the expression stability of nine candidate reference genes (nadh, sdhb, gapdh, fau, ef1a, rpl9, ube4a, gus and rps23) in different developmental stages, body parts, sex, starvation-induced stress and dsRNA exposure by RefFinder software that integrates the statistical algorithms geNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper, and ΔCt method. Our results showed that ef1a and nadh are the most stable reference genes for developmental stages, fau and rps23 for sex, ube4a and rps23 for body parts, rpl9 and fau for starvation stress, and nadh and sdhb for dsRNA exposure treatment. The reference genes selected in this work will be useful for further RT-qPCR analyses on D. melacanthus, facilitating future gene expression studies that can provide a better understanding of the developmental, physiological, and molecular processes of this important insect pest. Moreover, the knowledge gained from these studies can be helpful to design effective and sustainable pest management strategies.
Low availability of nitrogen (N) is often a major limiting factor to crop yield in most nutrient-poor soils. Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi are beneficial symbionts of most land plants that enhance plant nutrient uptake, particularly of phosphate. A growing number of reports point to the substantially increased N accumulation in many mycorrhizal plants; however, the contribution of AM symbiosis to plant N nutrition and the mechanisms underlying the AM-mediated N acquisition are still in the early stages of being understood. Here, we report that inoculation with AM fungus
The circadian clock drives endogenous 24-h rhythms that allow organisms to adapt and prepare for predictable and repeated changes in their environment throughout the day-night (diurnal) cycle. Many components of the circadian clock in Arabidopsis thaliana have been functionally characterized, but comparatively little is known about circadian clocks in grass species including major crops like maize and sorghum. Comparative research based on protein homology and diurnal gene expression patterns suggests the function of some predicted clock components in grasses is conserved with their Arabidopsis counterparts, while others have diverged in function. Our analysis of diurnal gene expression in three panicoid grasses sorghum, maize, and foxtail millet revealed conserved and divergent evolution of expression for core circadian clock genes and for the overall transcriptome. We find that several classes of core circadian clock genes in these grasses differ in copy number compared to Arabidopsis, but mostly exhibit conservation of both protein sequence and diurnal expression pattern with the notable exception of maize paralogous genes. We predict conserved cis-regulatory motifs shared between maize, sorghum, and foxtail millet through identification of diurnal co-expression clusters for a subset of 27,196 orthologous syntenic genes. In this analysis, a Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel based method to control for background variation identified significant enrichment for both expected and novel 6-8 nucleotide motifs in the promoter regions of genes with shared diurnal regulation predicted to function in common physiological activities. This study illustrates the divergence and conservation of circadian clocks and diurnal regulatory networks across syntenic orthologous genes in panacoid grass species. Further, conserved local regulatory sequences contribute to the architecture of these diurnal regulatory networks that produce conserved patterns of diurnal gene expression.
Equol is a metabolite of daidzein and has a higher biological activity than daidzein. High levels of non-starch polysaccharides can stimulate fermentation in the intestine leading to rapid conversion of daidzein into equol that has great potential to reduce obesity in postmenopausal women. In the present study, female Sprague-Dawley rats were used to establish a menopausal model by oral administration of formestane and to compare the protective effect of resistant starch on lipid metabolism, with or without soybean feed. The resistant starch was found to effectively control body weight and adipose tissue quality, while increasing the high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) concentration and lowering the glycerol, triacylglycerols (TG), total cholesterol (TC), and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) concentrations with soybean feed. Equol inhibited the expression of SREBPC1 gene by inhibiting SHP in the liver via transcription factor FXR, thereby inhibiting the synthesis of triglyceride and fatty acid in the liver. PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS: Intake of a certain amount of resistant starch while eating the soy product can better regulate lipid metabolism in menopausal obese rats compared to consumption of resistant starch alone. Studies have shown that resistant starch converts daidzein to Equol by regulating the structure of the intestinal flora and acts as an estrogen in menopausal rats. This research will further expand the health applications of resistant starch and provide useful information for the food industry.
Salinity is a major constraint limiting plant growth and productivity worldwide. Thus, understanding the mechanism underlying plant stress response is of importance to developing new approaches that will increase salt tolerance in crops. This study reports the effects of salt stress on
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) fulfills the demand for bioenergy resources and also provides substantial diet calories to the world's population. Therefore, many biological studies use sorghum as a research model for improvement of the domesticated food and bioenergy crops. Furthermore, leveraging genome editing systems in a plethora of grass plant species has been extensively studied with no exception in sorghum. However, a protocol that details the genome editing strategies using CRISPR/Cas9 and that combines an efficient tissue culture and transformation platform in sorghum based on Agrobacterium-mediated DNA transfer has yet to be reported. This protocol outlines the steps and workflow from design of sorghum CRISPR target sites using BTx623 as a reference genome, construction of sorghum CRISPR/Cas9 plasmids, tissue culture, to Agrobacterium-mediated transformation followed by genotyping of CRISPR/Cas9 induced mutants. © 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC. Basic Protocol 1: Construction of CRISPR/Cas9 expression vector to analysis of CRISPR-edited plants Basic Protocol 2: Stable transformation of sorghum Support Protocol: Management of sorghum plants in a greenhouse.
Elevating the lipid content in high-biomass forage crops has emerged as a new research platform for increasing energy density and improving livestock production efficiency associated with improved human health beneficial meat and milk quality. To gain insights of triacylglycerol (TAG) biosynthesis in forage sorghum, two type-1 diacylglycerol acyltransferase (designated as SbDGAT1-1 and SbDGAT1-2) were characterized for its in vivo function. SbDGAT1-2 is more abundantly expressed in embryo and bran during the early stage of the grain development in comparison to SbDGAT1-1. Heterologous expression of SbDGAT1 genes in TAG deficient H1246 strain restored the TAG accumulation capability with high substrate predilection towards 16:0, 16:1 and 18:1 fatty acids (FA). In parallel, we have identified N-terminal intrinsically disordered region (IDR) in SbDGAT1 proteins. To test the efficacy of the N-terminal region, truncated variants of SbDGAT1-1 (designated as SbDGAT1-1
Deep sequencing of DNase-I treated chromatin (DNase-seq) can be used to identify DNase I-hypersensitive sites (DHSs) and facilitates genome-scale mining of de novo
The molecular bases of aphid virulence to aphid crop plant resistance genes are poorly understood. The Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia, (Kurdjumov), and the greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), are global pest of cereal crops. Each species damages barley, oat, rye and wheat, but S. graminum includes fescue, maize, rice and sorghum in its host range. This study was conducted to compare and contrast the transcriptomes of S. graminum biotype I and D. noxia biotype 1 when each ingested phloem from leaves of varieties of bread wheat, Triticum aestivum L., containing no aphid resistance (Dn0), resistance to D. noxia biotype 1 (Dn4), or resistance to both D. noxia biotype 1 and S. graminum biotype I (Dn7, wheat genotype 94M370). Gene ontology enrichments, k-means analysis and KEGG pathway analysis indicated that 94M370 plants containing the Dn7 D. noxia resistance gene from rye had stronger effects on the global transcriptional profiles of S. graminum and D. noxia relative to those fed Dn4 plants. S. graminum responds to ingestion of phloem sap from 94M370 plants by expression of unigenes coding for proteins involved in DNA and RNA repair, and delayed tissue and structural development. In contrast, D. noxia displays a completely different transcriptome after ingesting phloem sap from Dn4 or 94M370 plants, consisting of unigenes involved primarily in detoxification, nutrient acquisition and structural development. These variations in transcriptional responses of D. noxia and S. graminum suggest that the underlying evolutionary mechanism(s) of virulence in these aphids are likely species specific, even in cases of cross resistance.
Heat shock transcription factor (Hsf) plays a transcriptional regulatory role in plants during heat stress and other abiotic stresses. 31 non-redundant ZmHsf genes from maize were identified and clustered in the reference genome sequenced by Single Molecule Real Time (SMRT). The amino acid length, chromosome location, and presence of functional domains and motifs of all ZmHsfs sequences were analyzed and determined. Phylogenetics and collinearity analyses reveal gene duplication events in Hsf family and collinearity blocks shared by maize, rice and sorghum. The results of RNA-Seq analysis of anthesis and post-anthesis periods in maize show different expression patterns of ZmHsf family members. Specially, ZmHsf26 of A2 subclass and ZmHsf23 of A6 subclass were distinctly up-regulated after heat shock (HS) at post-anthesis stage. Nanopore transcriptome sequencing of maize seedlings showed that alternative splicing (AS) events occur in ZmHsf04 and ZmHsf17 which belong to subclass A2 after heat shock. Through sequence alignment, semi-quantitative and quantitative RT-PCR, we found that intron retention events occur in response to heat shock, and newly splice isoforms, ZmHsf04-II and ZmHsf17-II, were transcribed. Both new isoforms contain several premature termination codons in their introns which may lead to early termination of translation. The ZmHsf04 expression was highly increased than that of ZmHsf17, and the up-regulation of ZmHsf04-I transcription level were significantly higher than that of ZmHsf04-II after HS.
Nitrogen (N) is a major nutrient element for crop growth. In plants, the members of the peptide transporter (PTR) gene family may involve in nitrate uptake and transport. Here, we identified PTR gene family in rice and analyzed their expression profile in near-isogenic lines. We identified 96, 85 and 78 PTR genes in Nipponbare, R498 and Oryza glaberrima, and the phylogenetic trees were similar in Asian cultivated rice and African cultivated rice. The number of PTR genes was higher in peanut (125) and soybean (127). The 521 PTR genes in rice, maize, sorghum, peanut, soybean and Arabidopsis could be classified into 4 groups, and their distribution was different between monocots and dicots. In Nipponbare genome, the 25 PTR genes were distributed in 5 segmental duplication regions on chromosome 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, and 10. The PTR genes in rice have 0-11 introns and 1-12 exons, and 16 of them have the NPF (NRT1/PTR family) domain. The results of RNA-seq showed that the number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between NIL15 and NIL19 at three stages were 928, 1467, and 1586, respectively. Under low N conditions, the number of differentially expressed PTR genes increased significantly. The RNA-seq data was analyzed using WGCNA to predict the potential interaction between genes. We classified the genes with similar expression pattern into one module, and obtained 25 target modules. Among these modules, three modules may be involved in rice N uptake and utilization, especially the brown module, in which hub genes were annotated as protein kinase that may regulate rice N metabolism. In this study, we comprehensively analyzed the PTR gene family in rice. 96 PTR genes were identified in Nippobare genome and 25 of them were located on five large segmental duplication regions. The Ka/Ks ratio indicated that many PTR genes had undergone positive selection. The RNA-seq results showed that many PTR genes were involved in rice nitrogen use efficiency (NUE), and protein kinases might play an important role in this process. These results provide a fundamental basis to improve the rice NUE via molecular breeding.
S-Adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) is a key enzyme involved in many important biological processes, such as ethylene and polyamine biosynthesis, transmethylation, and transsulfuration. Here, the SAM synthetase (SAMS) gene family was studied in ten different plants (Arabidopsis, tomato, eggplant, sunflower,
Ornithine aminotransferase (OAT, EC:2.6.1.13), alternatively known as ornithine delta aminotransferase (δOAT), is a pyridoxal phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzyme involved in the conversion of ornithine into glutamyl-5-semi-aldehyde (GSA) and vice versa. Up till now, there has been no study on OAT in wheat despite the success of its isolation from rice, maize, and sorghum. This study focuses on identification and molecular characterization of OAT in wheat. In total, three homeologous OAT genes in wheat genome were found on chromosome group 5, named as TaOAT-5AL, TaOAT-5BL, and TaOAT-5DL. Sequence alignment between gDNA and its corresponding cDNA obtained a total of ten exons and nine introns. A phylogenetic tree was constructed and results indicated that OATs shared highly conserved domains between monocots and eudicots, which was further illustrated by using WebLogo to generate a sequence logo. Further subcellular localization analysis indicated that they functioned in mitochondria. Protein-protein interactions supported their role in proline biosynthesis through interactions with genes, such as delta 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS) and pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductase (P5CR), involved in the proline metabolic pathway. Promoter analysis exposed the presence of several stress responsive elements, implying their involvement in stress regulation. Expression profiling illustrated that TaOAT was highly induced in the wheat plants exposed to drought or salt stress condition. Upregulated expression of TaOATs was observed in stamens and at the heading stage. A potential role of TaOAT genes during floret development was also revealed. Furthermore, the transgenic plants overexpressing TaOAT showed enhanced tolerance to drought stress by increasing proline accumulation. In addition, salt tolerance of the transgenic plants was also enhanced. TaOATs genes were involved in proline synthesis and nitrogen remobilization because they interacted with genes related to proline biosynthesis enzymes and arginine catabolism. In addition, TaOAT genes had a role in abiotic stress tolerance and a potential role in floret development. The results of this study may propose future research in the improvement of wheat resistance to abiotic stresses.
Cinnamate 4-hydroxylase (C4H; CYP73A) is a cytochrome P450 monooxygenase associated externally with the endoplasmic reticulum of plant cells. The enzyme uses NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase as a donor of electrons and hydroxylates cinnamic acid to form 4-coumaric acid in phenylpropanoid metabolism. In order to better understand the structure and function of this unique class of plant P450 enzymes, we have characterized the enzyme C4H1 from lignifying tissues of sorghum (
Drought tolerance is a crucial trait for crops to curtail the yield loss inflicted by water stress, yet genetic improvement efforts are challenged by the complexity of this character. The adaptation of sorghum to abiotic stress, its genotypic variability, and relatively small genome make this species well-suited to dissect the molecular basis of drought tolerance. The use of differential transcriptome analysis provides a snapshot of the bioprocesses underlying drought response as well as genes that might be determinants of the drought tolerance trait. RNA sequencing data were analyzed via gene ontology enrichment to compare the transcriptome profiles of two sorghum lines, the drought-tolerant SC56 and the drought-sensitive Tx7000. SC56 outperformed Tx7000 in wet conditions by upregulating processes driving growth and guaranteeing homeostasis. The drought tolerance of SC56 seems to be an intrinsic trait occurring through overexpressing stress tolerance genes in wet conditions, notably genes acting in defense against oxidative stress (SOD1, SOD2, VTC1, MDAR1, MSRB2, and ABC1K1). Similarly to wet conditions, under drought, SC56 enhanced its transmembrane transport and maintained growth-promoting mechanisms. Under drought, SC56 also upregulated stress tolerance genes that heighten the antioxidant capacity (SOD1, RCI3, VTE1, UCP1, FD1, and FD2), regulatory factors (CIPK1 and CRK7), and repressors of premature senescence (SAUL1). The differential expression analysis uncovered biological processes which upregulation enables SC56 to be a better accumulator of biomass and connects the drought tolerance trait to key stress tolerance genes, making this genotype a judicious choice for isolation of tolerance genes.
Biolistic DNA delivery has been considered a universal tool for genetic manipulation to transfer exotic genes to cells or tissues due to its simplicity, versatility, and high efficiency. It has been a preferred method for investigating plant gene function in most monocot crops. The first transgenic sorghum plants were successfully regenerated through biolistic DNA delivery in 1993, with a relatively low transformation efficiency of 0.3%. Since then, tremendous progress has been made in recent years where the highest transformation efficiency was reported at 46.6%. Overall, the successful biolistic DNA delivery system is credited to three fundamental cornerstones: robust tissue culture system, effective gene expression in sorghum, and optimal parameters of DNA delivery. In this chapter, the history, application, and current development of biolistic DNA delivery in sorghum are reviewed, and the prospect of sorghum genetic engineering is discussed.
Small RNAs comprise three families of noncoding regulatory RNAs that control gene expression by blocking mRNA translation or leading to mRNA cleavage. Such post-transcriptional negative regulation is relevant for both plant development and environmental adaptations. An important biotechnological application of miRNA identification is the discovery of regulators and effectors of cell wall degradation, which can improve/facilitate hydrolysis of cell wall polymers for second-generation bioethanol production. The recent characterization of plant innate cell wall modifications occurring during root aerenchyma development triggered by ethylene led to the possibility of prospection for mechanisms of cell wall disassembly in sugarcane. By using next-generation sequencing, 39 miRNAs were identified in root segments along the process of aerenchyma development. Among them, 31 miRNAs were unknown to the sugarcane miRBase repository but previously identified as produced by its relative
Most sorghum biomass accumulates in stem secondary cell walls (SCW). As sorghum stems are used as raw materials for various purposes such as feed, energy and fiber reinforced polymers, identifying the genes responsible for SCW establishment is highly important. Taking advantage of studies performed in model species, most of the structural genes contributing at the molecular level to the SCW biosynthesis in sorghum have been proposed while their regulatory factors have mostly not been determined. Validation of the role of several MYB and NAC transcription factors in SCW regulation in Arabidopsis and a few other species has been provided. In this study, we contributed to the recent efforts made in grasses to uncover the mechanisms underlying SCW establishment. We reported updated phylogenies of NAC and MYB in 9 different species and exploited findings from other species to highlight candidate regulators of SCW in sorghum. We acquired expression data during sorghum internode development and used co-expression analyses to determine groups of co-expressed genes that are likely to be involved in SCW establishment. We were able to identify two groups of co-expressed genes presenting multiple evidences of involvement in SCW building. Gene enrichment analysis of MYB and NAC genes provided evidence that while NAC SECONDARY WALL THICKENING PROMOTING FACTOR NST genes and SECONDARY WALL-ASSOCIATED NAC DOMAIN PROTEIN gene functions appear to be conserved in sorghum, NAC master regulators of SCW in sorghum may not be as tissue compartmentalized as in Arabidopsis. We showed that for every homolog of the key SCW MYB in Arabidopsis, a similar role is expected for sorghum. In addition, we unveiled sorghum MYB and NAC that have not been identified to date as being involved in cell wall regulation. Although specific validation of the MYB and NAC genes uncovered in this study is needed, we provide a network of sorghum genes involved in SCW both at the structural and regulatory levels.
Ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (UBCs), which catalyse the transfer of ubiquitin to substrate or E3 ligases, are key enzymes in ubiquitination modifications of target proteins. Current knowledge regarding the sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (SbUBC) family remains very limited. We identified 53 UBC-encoding genes in the sorghum genome and divided these into 18 groups according to their phylogenetic relationship with Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh., which was further supported by conserved motif and gene structure analyses. Different expression levels under a variety of abiotic stresses suggested that these might participate in distinct signalling pathways and that they underwent functional divergence during evolution. Furthermore, several SbUBC genes responded to single treatments, and individual SbUBC genes responded to multiple treatments, suggesting that sorghum UBCs may mediate crosstalk among different signalling pathways. Overall, the results provide valuable information for better understanding the classification and putative functions of sorghum UBC-encoding genes.
The G protein-coupled receptor is one of the major transmembrane proteins in plants. It consists of an α subunit, a β subunit and three γ subunits. Chilling tolerant divergence 1 (COLD1) includes a Golgi pH receptor (GPHR) domain, which maintains cell membrane organisation and dynamics, along with abscisic acid linked G protein-coupled receptor (ABA_GPCR) that regulates the signalling pathways during cold stress. In the present study, we performed characterisation of a homologous COLD1 from the economically important monocot species Oryza sativa L., Zea mays L., Sorghum bicolor (L.)Moench and Erianthus arundinaceus (L.) Beauv. IK 76-81, a wild relative of Saccharum. COLD1 was isolated from E. arundinaceus IK 76-81, analysed for its evolution, domain, membrane topology, followed by prediction of secondary, tertiary structures and functionally validated in all four different monocots. Gene expression studies of COLD1 revealed differential expression under heat, drought, salinity and cold stresses in selected monocots. This is the first study on regulation of native COLD1 during abiotic stress in monocots, which has opened up new leads for trait improvement strategies in this economically important crop species.
Ferulate 5-hydroxylase (F5H) of the monolignol pathway catalyzes the hydroxylation of coniferyl alcohol, coniferaldehyde and ferulic acid to produce 5-hydroxyconiferyl moieties, which lead to the formation of sinapic acid and syringyl (S) lignin monomers. In contrast, guaiacyl (G) lignin, the other major type of lignin monomer, is derived from polymerization of coniferyl alcohol. In this study, the effects of manipulating S-lignin biosynthesis in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) were evaluated. Overexpression of sorghum F5H (SbF5H), under the control of the CaMV 35S promoter, increased both S-lignin levels and the ratio of S/G lignin, while plant growth and development remained relatively unaffected. Maüle staining of stalk and leaf midrib sections from SbF5H overexpression lines indicated that the lignin composition was altered. Ectopic expression of SbF5H did not affect the gene expression of other monolignol pathway genes. In addition, brown midrib 12-ref (bmr12-ref), a nonsense mutation in the sorghum caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT) was combined with 35S::SbF5H through cross-pollination to examine effects on lignin synthesis. The stover composition from bmr12 35S::SbF5H plants more closely resembled bmr12 stover than 35S::SbF5H or wild-type (WT) stover; S-lignin and total lignin concentrations were decreased relative to WT or 35S::SbF5H. Likewise, expression of upstream monolignol biosynthetic genes was increased in both bmr12 and bmr12 35S::SbF5H relative to WT or 35S::SbF5H. Overall, these results indicated that overexpression of SbF5H did not compensate for the loss of COMT activity. KEY MESSAGE: Overexpression of F5H in sorghum increases S-lignin without increasing total lignin content or affecting plant growth, but it cannot compensate for the loss of COMT activity in monolignol synthesis.
APETALA2/Ethylene-Responsive transcription factors (AP2/ERF), with their multifunctional roles in plant development, hormone signaling and stress tolerance, are important candidates for engineering crop plants. Here, we report identification and analysis of gene structure, phylogenetic distribution, expression, chromosomal localization and
WRKY transcription factors have been suggested to play important roles in response and adaptation to drought stress. However, how sorghum WRKY transcription factors function in drought stress is still unclear. Here, we identify a WRKY transcription factor of sorghum, SbWRKY30, which is induced significantly by drought stress. SbWRKY30 is mainly expressed in sorghum taproot and leaf. SbWRKY30 has transcriptional activation activity and functions in the nucleus. Heterologous expression of SbWRKY30 confers tolerance to drought stress in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice by affecting root architecture. In addition, SbWRKY30 transgenic Arabidopsis and rice plants have higher proline contents and SOD, POD, and CAT activities but lower MDA contents than wild-type plants after drought stress. As a homologous gene of the drought stress-responsive gene RD19 of Arabidopsis, SbRD19 overexpression in Arabidopsis improved the drought tolerance of plants relative to wild-type plants. Further analysis demonstrated that SbWRKY30 could induce SbRD19 expression through binding to the W-box element in the promoter of SbRD19. These results suggest that SbWRKY30 functions as a positive regulator in response to drought stress. Therefore, SbWRKY30 may serve as a promising candidate gene for molecular breeding to generate drought-tolerant crops.
Sorghum is one of the most recalcitrant species for transformation. Considering the time and effort required for stable transformation in sorghum, establishing a transient system to screen the efficiency and full functionality of vector constructs is highly desirable. Here, we report an Agrobacterium-mediated transient transformation assay with intact sorghum leaves using green fluorescent protein as marker. It also provides a good monocot alternative to tobacco and protoplast assays with a direct, native and more reliable system for testing single guide RNA (sgRNA) expression construct efficiency. Given the simplicity and ease of transformation, high reproducibility, and ability to test large constructs, this method can be widely adopted to speed up functional genomic and genome editing studies.
Plants have evolved complex mechanisms to respond to the fluctuation of available nitrogen (N) in soil, but the genetic mechanisms underlying the N response in crops are not well-documented. In this study, we generated a time series of NO
Downy mildew (DM) is a major disease of maize that causes significant yield loss in subtropical and tropical regions around the world. A variety of DM strains have been reported, and the resistance to them is polygenically controlled. In this study, we analyzed the quantitative trait loci (QTLs) involved in resistance to
The WRKY transcription factor family is involved in responding to biotic and abiotic stresses. Its members contain a typical WRKY domain and can regulate plant physiological responses by binding to W-boxes in the promoter regions of downstream target genes. We identified the sweet sorghum SbWRKY50 (Sb09g005700) gene, which encodes a typical class II of the WRKY family protein that localizes to the nucleus and has transcriptional activation activity. The expression of SbWRKY50 in sweet sorghum was reduced by salt stress, and its ectopic expression reduced the salt tolerance of Arabidopsis thaliana plants. Compared with the wild type, the germination rate, root length, biomass and potassium ion content of SbWRKY50 over-expression plants decreased significantly under salt-stress conditions, while the hydrogen peroxide, superoxide anion and sodium ion contents increased. Real-time PCR results showed that the expression levels of AtSOS1, AtHKT1 and genes related to osmotic and oxidative stresses in over-expression strains decreased under salt-stress conditions. Luciferase complementation imaging and yeast one-hybrid assays confirmed that SbWRKY50 could directly bind to the upstream promoter of the SOS1 gene in A. thaliana. However, in sweet sorghum, SbWRKY50 could directly bind to the upstream promoters of SOS1 and HKT1. These results suggest that the new WRKY transcription factor SbWRKY50 participates in plant salt response by controlling ion homeostasis. However, the regulatory mechanisms are different in sweet sorghum and Arabidopsis, which may explain their different salt tolerance levels. The data provide information that can be applied to genetically modifying salt tolerance in different crop varieties.
Host-parasite coevolution can maintain high levels of genetic diversity in traits involved in species interactions. In many systems, host traits exploited by parasites are constrained by use in other functions, leading to complex selective pressures across space and time. Here, we study genome-wide variation in the staple crop
The glyoxalase pathway is evolutionarily conserved and involved in the glutathione-dependent detoxification of methylglyoxal (MG), a cytotoxic by-product of glycolysis. It acts via two metallo-enzymes, glyoxalase I (GLYI) and glyoxalase II (GLYII), to convert MG into D-lactate, which is further metabolized to pyruvate by D-lactate dehydrogenases (D-LDH). Since D-lactate formation occurs solely by the action of glyoxalase enzymes, its metabolism may be considered as the ultimate step of MG detoxification. By maintaining steady state levels of MG and other reactive dicarbonyl compounds, the glyoxalase pathway serves as an important line of defence against glycation and oxidative stress in living organisms. Therefore, considering the general role of glyoxalases in stress adaptation and the ability of Sorghum bicolor to withstand prolonged drought, the sorghum glyoxalase pathway warrants an in-depth investigation with regard to the presence, regulation and distribution of glyoxalase and D-LDH genes. Through this study, we have identified 15 GLYI and 6 GLYII genes in sorghum. In addition, 4 D-LDH genes were also identified, forming the first ever report on genome-wide identification of any plant D-LDH family. Our in silico analysis indicates homology of putatively active SbGLYI, SbGLYII and SbDLDH proteins to several functionally characterised glyoxalases and D-LDHs from Arabidopsis and rice. Further, these three gene families exhibit development and tissue-specific variations in their expression patterns. Importantly, we could predict the distribution of putatively active SbGLYI, SbGLYII and SbDLDH proteins in at least four different sub-cellular compartments namely, cytoplasm, chloroplast, nucleus and mitochondria. Most of the members of the sorghum glyoxalase and D-LDH gene families are indeed found to be highly stress responsive. This study emphasizes the role of glyoxalases as well as that of D-LDH in the complete detoxification of MG in sorghum. In particular, we propose that D-LDH which metabolizes the specific end product of glyoxalases pathway is essential for complete MG detoxification. By proposing a cellular model for detoxification of MG via glyoxalase pathway in sorghum, we suggest that different sub-cellular organelles are actively involved in MG metabolism in plants.
Apoplastic barriers in the endodermis, such as Casparian strips and suberin lamellae, control the passage of water and minerals into the stele. Apoplastic barriers are thus thought to contribute to salt exclusion in salt-excluding plants such as sweet sorghum (
Because of their sessile lifestyle, plants are inescapably exposed to various kinds of environmental stresses throughout their lifetime. Therefore, to regulate their growth and development, plants constantly monitor the environmental signals and respond appropriately. However, these environmental stress factors, along with some endogenous metabolites, generated in response to environmental stress factors often induce various forms of DNA damage in plants and thus promote genome instability. To maintain the genomic integrity, plants have developed an extensive, sophisticated and coordinated cellular signaling mechanism known as DNA damage response or DDR. DDR evokes a signaling process which initiates with the sensing of DNA damage and followed by the subsequent activation of downstream pathways in many directions to repair and eliminate the harmful effects of DNA damages. SUPPRESSOR OF GAMMA RESPONSE 1 (SOG1), one of the newly identified components of DDR in plant genome, appears to play central role in this signaling network. SOG1 is a member of NAC [NO APICAL MERISTEM (NAM), ARABIDOPSIS TRANSCRIPTION ACTIVATION FACTOR (ATAF), CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON (CUC)] domain family of transcription factors and involved in a diverse array of function in plants, encompassing transcriptional response to DNA damage, cell cycle checkpoint functions, ATAXIA-TELANGIECTASIA-MUTATED (ATM) or ATAXIA TELANGIECTASIA AND RAD3-RELATED (ATR) mediated activation of DNA damage response and repair, functioning in programmed cell death and regulation of induction of endoreduplication. Although most of the functional studies on SOG1 have been reported in Arabidopsis, some recent reports have indicated diverse functions of SOG1 in various other plant species, including Glycine max, Medicago truncatula, Sorghum bicolour, Oryza sativa and Zea mays, respectively. The remarkable functional diversity shown by SOG1 protein indicates its multitasking capacity. In this review, we integrate information mainly related to functional aspects of SOG1 in the context of DDR in plants. Considering the important role of SOG1 in DDR and its functional diversity, in-depth functional study of this crucial regulatory protein can provide further potential information on genome stability maintenance mechanism in plants in the context of changing environmental condition.
Drought is a major limiting factor of crop yields. In response to drought, plants reprogram their gene expression, which ultimately regulates a multitude of biochemical and physiological processes. The timing of this reprogramming and the nature of the drought-regulated genes in different genotypes are thought to confer differential tolerance to drought stress. Sorghum is a highly drought-tolerant crop and has been increasingly used as a model cereal to identify genes that confer tolerance. Also, there is considerable natural variation in resistance to drought in different sorghum genotypes. Here, we evaluated drought resistance in four genotypes to polyethylene glycol (PEG)-induced drought stress at the seedling stage and performed transcriptome analysis in seedlings of sorghum genotypes that are either drought-resistant or drought-sensitive to identify drought-regulated changes in gene expression that are unique to drought-resistant genotypes of sorghum. Our analysis revealed that about 180 genes are differentially regulated in response to drought stress only in drought-resistant genotypes and most of these (over 70%) are up-regulated in response to drought. Among these, about 70 genes are novel with no known function and the remaining are transcription factors, signaling and stress-related proteins implicated in drought tolerance in other crops. This study revealed a set of drought-regulated genes, including many genes encoding uncharacterized proteins that are associated with drought tolerance at the seedling stage.
Sorghum is a self-pollinated crop with multiple economic uses as cereal, forage, and biofuel feedstock. Hybrid breeding is a cornerstone for sorghum improvement strategies that currently relies on cytoplasmic male sterile lines. To engineer genic male sterility, it is imperative to examine the genetic components regulating anther/pollen development in sorghum. To this end, we have performed transcriptomic analysis from three temporal stages of developing anthers that correspond to meiotic, microspore and mature pollen stages. A total of 5286 genes were differentially regulated among the three anther stages with 890 of them exhibiting anther-preferential expression. Differentially expressed genes could be clubbed into seven distinct developmental trajectories using K-means clustering. Pathway mapping revealed that genes involved in cell cycle, DNA repair, regulation of transcription, brassinosteroid and auxin biosynthesis/signalling exhibit peak expression in meiotic anthers, while those regulating abiotic stress, carbohydrate metabolism, and transport were enriched in microspore stage. Conversely, genes associated with protein degradation, post-translational modifications, cell wall biosynthesis/modifications, abscisic acid, ethylene, cytokinin and jasmonic acid biosynthesis/signalling were highly expressed in mature pollen stage. High concurrence in transcriptional dynamics and cis-regulatory elements of differentially expressed genes in rice and sorghum confirmed conserved developmental pathways regulating anther development across species. Comprehensive literature survey in conjunction with orthology analysis and anther-preferential accumulation enabled shortlisting of 21 prospective candidates for in-depth characterization and engineering male fertility in sorghum.
Rice blast disease caused by Magnaporthe oryzae (M. oryzae) is one of the most serious diseases. Although previous research using two-dimensional gel-based proteomics to assess the proteins related to the rice blast resistance had been done, few proteins were identified. Here, we used the iTRAQ method to detect the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the durable resistant rice variety Gangyuan8 (GY8) and the susceptible rice variety Lijiangxintuanheigu (LTH) in response to M. oryzae invasion, and then transcriptome sequencing was used to assist analysis A total of 193 and 672 DEPs were specifically identified in GY8 and LTH, respectively, with only 46 similarly expressed DEPs being shared by GY8 and LTH.39 DEPs involved in plant-pathogen interaction, plant hormone signal transduction, fatty acid metabolism and peroxisome biosynthesis were significantly different between compatible interaction (LTH) and incompatible interaction (GY8). Some proteins participated in peroxide signal transduction and biosynthesis was down-regulated in GY8 but up-regulated in LTH. A lot of genes encoding pathogenesis-related gene (PR), such as chitinase and glucanase, were significantly up-regulated at both the transcriptome and proteome levels at 24 hours post-inoculation in GY8, but up-regulated at the transcriptome level and down-regulated at the proteome level in LTH. Our study reveals that the pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP)-triggered immunity defense system may be activated at the transcriptome level but was inhibited at the protein level in susceptible rice varieties after inoculation. The results may facilitate future studies of the molecular mechanisms of rice blast resistance.
Community assembly of crop-associated fungi is thought to be strongly influenced by deterministic selection exerted by the plant host, rather than stochastic processes. Here we use a simple, sorghum system with abundant sampling to show that stochastic forces (drift or stochastic dispersal) act on fungal community assembly in leaves and roots early in host development and when sorghum is drought stressed, conditions when mycobiomes are small. Unexpectedly, we find no signal for stochasticity when drought stress is relieved, likely due to renewed selection by the host. In our experimental system, the host compartment exerts the strongest effects on mycobiome assembly, followed by the timing of plant development and lastly by plant genotype. Using a dissimilarity-overlap approach, we find a universality in the forces of community assembly of the mycobiomes of the different sorghum compartments and in functional guilds of fungi.
Alternative polyadenylation (APA) regulates diverse developmental and physiological processes through its effects on gene expression, mRNA stability, translatability, and transport. Sorghum is a major cereal crop in the world and, despite its importance, not much is known about the role of post-transcriptional regulation in mediating responses to abiotic stresses in Sorghum. A genome-wide APA analysis unveiled widespread occurrence of APA in Sorghum in response to drought, heat, and salt stress. Abiotic stress treatments incited changes in poly(A) site choice in a large number of genes. Interestingly, abiotic stresses led to the re-directing of transcriptional output into non-productive pathways defined by the class of poly(A) site utilized. This result revealed APA to be part of a larger global response of Sorghum to abiotic stresses that involves the re-direction of transcriptional output into non-productive transcriptional and translational pathways. Large numbers of stress-inducible poly(A) sites could not be linked with known, annotated genes, suggestive of the existence of numerous unidentified genes whose expression is strongly regulated by abiotic stresses. Furthermore, we uncovered a novel stress-specific cis-element in intronic poly(A) sites used in drought- and heat-stressed plants that might play an important role in non-canonical poly(A) site choice in response to abiotic stresses.
Maize experienced a whole-genome duplication event approximately 5 to 12 million years ago. Because this event occurred after speciation from sorghum, the pre-duplication subgenomes can be partially reconstructed by mapping syntenic regions to the sorghum chromosomes. During evolution, maize has had uneven gene loss between each ancient subgenome. Fractionation and divergence between these genomes continue today, constantly changing genetic make-up and phenotypes and influencing agronomic traits. Here we regenerate the subgenome reconstructions for the most recent maize reference genome assembly. Based on both expression and abundance data for homeologous gene pairs across multiple tissues, we observed functional divergence of genes across subgenomes. Although the genes in the larger maize subgenome are often expressing more highly than their homeologs in the smaller subgenome, we observed cases where homeolog expression dominance switches in different tissues. We demonstrate for the first time that protein abundances are higher in the larger subgenome, but they also show tissue-specific dominance, a pattern similar to RNA expression dominance. We also find that pollen expression is uniquely decoupled from protein abundance. Our study shows that the larger subgenome has a greater range of functional assignments and that there is a relative lack of overlap between the subgenomes in terms of gene functions than would be suggested by similar patterns of gene expression and protein abundance. Our study also revealed that some reactions are catalyzed uniquely by the larger and smaller subgenomes. The tissue-specific, nonequivalent expression-level dominance pattern observed here implies a change in regulatory control which favors differentiated selective pressure on the retained duplicates leading to eventual change in gene functions.
The heterogeneous distribution of soil salinity across the rhizosphere can moderate salt injury and improve sorghum growth. However, the essential molecular mechanisms used by sorghum to adapt to such environmental conditions remain uncharacterized. The present study evaluated physiological parameters such as the photosynthetic rate, antioxidative enzyme activities, leaf Na+ and K+ contents, and osmolyte contents and investigated gene expression patterns via RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis under various conditions of nonuniformly distributed salt. Totals of 5691 and 2047 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the leaves and roots, respectively, were identified by RNA-seq under nonuniform (NaCl-free and 200 mmol·L-1 NaCl) and uniform (100 mmol·L-1 and 100 mmol·L-1 NaCl) salinity conditions. The expression of genes related to photosynthesis, Na+ compartmentalization, phytohormone metabolism, antioxidative enzymes, and transcription factors (TFs) was enhanced in leaves under nonuniform salinity stress compared with uniform salinity stress. Similarly, the expression of the majority of aquaporins and essential mineral transporters was upregulated in the NaCl-free root side in the nonuniform salinity treatment, whereas abscisic acid (ABA)-related and salt stress-responsive TF transcripts were more abundant in the high-saline root side in the nonuniform salinity treatment. In contrast, the expression of the DEGs identified in the nonuniform salinity treatment remained virtually unaffected and was even downregulated in the uniform salinity treatment. The transcriptome findings might be supportive of the increased photosynthetic rate, reduced Na+ levels, increased antioxidative capability in the leaves and, consequently, the growth recovery of sorghum under nonuniform salinity stress as well as the inhibited sorghum growth under uniform salinity conditions. The increased expression of salt resistance genes activated in response to the nonuniform salinity distribution implied that the cross-talk between the nonsaline and high-saline sides of the roots exposed to nonuniform salt stress is potentially regulated.
In this study we have cloned and characterized cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) involved in phenylpropanoid pathway which can be utilized for biomass modification for improved saccharification efficiency. The full length gene CAD is of 4 kb containing four exons and three introns, among which the exon 1 and 2 of 88 and 116 bp were conserved with sorghum and
Field experiments showed that Della and Rio had similar dynamics and internode patterns of sugar concentration, albeit distinct other phenotypes. Interestingly, cellulose synthases for primary cell wall and key genes in starch synthesis and degradation were coordinately upregulated in sweet genotypes. Sweet sorghums maintained active monolignol biosynthesis compared to the non-sweet genotypes. Comparative RNA-seq results support the role of candidate Comparisons of the expression dynamics of carbon metabolic genes across the RNA-seq data sets identify several candidate genes with contrasting expression patterns between sweet and non-sweet sorghum lines, including genes required for cellulose and monolignol synthesis (
WRKY is one of the largest transcription factor families in plants and plays important roles in the regulation of developmental and physiological processes. To date, the WRKY gene family has not been identified in Saccharum species because of its complex polyploid genome. In this study, a total of 294 sequences for 154 SsWRKY genes were identified in the polyploid Saccharum spontaneum genome and then named on the basis of their chromosome locations, including 13 (8.4%) genes with four alleles, 29 (18.8%) genes with three alleles and 41 (26.6%) genes with two alleles. Among them, 73.8% and 16.0% of the SsWRKY genes originated from segmental duplications and tandem duplications, respectively. The WRKY members exhibited conserved gene structures and amino acid sequences among the allelic haplotypes, which were accompanied by variations in intron sizes. Phylogenetic and collinearity analyses revealed that 27 SsWRKYs originated after the split of sorghum and Saccharum, resulting in a significantly higher number of WRKYs in sugarcane than in the proximal diploid species sorghum. The analysis of RNA-seq data revealed that SsWRKYs' expression profiles in 46 different samples including different developmental stages revealed distinct temporal and spatial patterns with 52 genes expressed in all tissues, four genes not expressed in any tissues and 21 SsWRKY genes likely to be involved in photosynthesis. The comprehensive analysis of SsWRKYs' expression will provide an important and valuable foundation for further investigation of the regulatory mechanisms of WRKYs in physiological roles in sugarcane S. spontaneum.
Climatic factors particularly increased atmospheric temperature (IAT) greatly alters plant microbe and heavy metal interactions and subsequently reduces plant growth and phytoremediation efficiency. The aim of the study was to assess the effects of inoculation of chromium reducing-thermotolerant plant growth promoting bacteria (CRT-PGPB) on plant growth, physiological responses and chromium (Cr) uptake by Sorghum bicolor under IAT condition. Three potential CRT-PGPB strains were isolated from Cr contaminated sites and identified as Bacillus cereus TCR17, Providencia rettgeri TCR21 and Myroides odoratimimus TCR22 through molecular characterization. These strains displayed the potential to reduce Cr
Iron (Fe) is a crucial micronutrient in plant metabolism; thus, iron homeostasis is critical for plant development. Permease in chloroplast 1 (PIC1) is the first protein determined in the chloroplast playing a role iron homeostasis. In the present study, the PIC1 gene was investigated at a genome-wide scale in four plant genomes; Arabidopsis, tomato, maize and sorghum. Based on the gene ontology database, 21 GO terms were found related to the PIC1 gene, most of which were involved in iron hemostasis and transport. The digital expression data revealed that the expression of the majority of PIC1 genes (62.5%) in Arabidopsis decreased under abiotic stress conditions. Expression profiles of tomato PIC1 (SlPIC1) and sorghum PIC1 (SbPIC1) genes were also analyzed under salt and drought stress conditions using Real Time-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). Our wet-lab studies demonstrated that the SbPIC1 gene was down-regulated under salt and drought stresses in all tissues, while SlPIC1 was up-regulated in all but root tissue under drought stress. Some structural variations were detected in predicted 3D structures of PIC1 proteins and the structural similarity values varied between 0.23 and 0.35. Consequently, these results may contribute to the understanding of the PIC1 gene in iron transport and homeostasis in plants.
Thaumatin-like protein kinases (TLPKs) are defense related proteins having antimicrobial property. Herein, we identified two TLPKs in the genome of Brachypodium distachyon and Oryza sativa, four in Hordeum vulgare and Sorghum bicolor, and 16 in Triticum aestivum. All the TLPKs were located at only one chromosome in each plant except T. aestivum, where they were located on chromosome 2 and chromosome 3. Paralogous analysis suggested the occurrence of one duplication event (DE) in each B. distachyon and O. sativa, two in H. vulgare while four DEs in T. aestivum genome during the evolution of TLPKs. The majority of TLPKs were intron less, while a few contains one or two introns. The introns were found in each 0, 1 and 2 phase. Protein structure analysis suggested the occurrence of a thaumatin and a kinase domain with a transmembrane (TM) helix in each TLPK. Further, a thaumatin family signature motif "GX[GF]XCXT[GA]DCX(1,2)GX(2,3)C", a "REDDD" motif and 16 cysteine residues were found conserved in the majority of TLPKs. Expression analysis indicated variable expression of TLPKs in various tissues of different cereal crops. They were high expressing in reproductive tissues in B. distachyon, while in leaves in T. aestivum. Modulated expression of TaTLPKs in the presence of fungal pathogen, and heat, drought and salt stress in T. aestivum suggested their roles in stress response. Co-expression analysis showed interaction of TLPKs with various development and stress related genes. The results indicated diverse roles of TLPKs, which can be utilized for the development of eco-friendly pest resistant crops in future.
Coix is a grass crop domesticated as early as the Neolithic era. It is still widely cultivated for both highly nutritional food and medicinal use. However, the genetic study and breeding of this crop are hindered by the lack of a sequenced genome. Here, we report de novo sequencing and assembly of the 1619-Mb genome of Coix, and annotation of 75.39% repeats and 39 629 protein-coding genes. Comparative genomics analysis showed that Coix is more closely related to sorghum than maize, but intriguingly only Coix and maize had a recent genome duplication event, which was not detected in sorghum. We further constructed a genetic map and mapped several important traits, especially the strength of hull. Selection of papery hull (thin: easy dehulling) from the stony hull (thick: difficult dehulling) in wild progenitors was a key step in Coix domestication. The papery hull makes seed easier to process and germinate. Anatomic and global transcriptome analysis revealed that the papery hull is a result of inhibition of cell division and wall biogenesis. We also successfully demonstrated that seed hull pressure resistance is controlled by two major quantitative trait loci (QTLs), which are associated with hull thickness and color, respectively. The two QTLs were further fine mapped within intervals of 250 kb and 146 kb, respectively. These resources provide a platform for evolutionary studies and will facilitate molecular breeding of this important crop.
This study provides new insights that alternative splicing participates with transcriptional control in defense responses to Colletotrichum sublineola in sorghum In eukaryotic organisms, alternative splicing (AS) is an important post-transcriptional mechanism to generate multiple transcript isoforms from a single gene. Protein variants translated from splicing isoforms may have altered molecular characteristics in signal transduction and metabolic activities. However, which transcript isoforms will be translated into proteins and the biological functions of the resulting proteoforms are yet to be identified. Sorghum is one of the five major cereal crops, but its production is severely affected by fungal diseases. For example, sorghum anthracnose caused by Colletotrichum sublineola greatly reduces grain yield and biomass production. In this study, next-generation sequencing technology was used to analyze C. sublineola-inoculated sorghum seedlings compared with mock-inoculated control. It was identified that AS regulation may be as important as traditional transcriptional control during defense responses to fungal infection. Moreover, several genes involved in flavonoid and phenylpropanoid biosynthetic pathways were found to undergo multiple AS modifications. Further analysis demonstrated that non-conventional targets of both 5'- and 3'-splice sites were alternatively used in response to C. sublineola infection. Splicing factors were also affected at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. As the first transcriptome report on C. sublineola infected sorghum, our work also suggested that AS plays crucial functions in defense responses to fungal invasion.
Determining the genetic control of root system architecture (RSA) in plants via large-scale genome-wide association study (GWAS) requires high-throughput pipelines for root phenotyping. We developed Core Root Excavation using Compressed-air (CREAMD), a high-throughput pipeline for the cleaning of field-grown roots, and Core Root Feature Extraction (COFE), a semiautomated pipeline for the extraction of RSA traits from images. CREAMD-COFE was applied to diversity panels of maize (
Iron (Fe) is an essential micronutrient that is frequently inaccessible to plants. Rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants employ the Combined Strategy for Fe uptake, which is composed by all features of Strategy II, common to all Poaceae species, and some features of Strategy I, common to non-Poaceae species. To understand the evolution of Fe uptake mechanisms, we analyzed the root transcriptomic response to Fe deficiency in O. sativa and its wild progenitor O. rufipogon. We identified 622 and 2,017 differentially expressed genes in O. sativa and O. rufipogon, respectively. Among the genes up-regulated in both species, we found Fe transporters associated with Strategy I, such as IRT1, IRT2 and NRAMP1; and genes associated with Strategy II, such as YSL15 and IRO2. In order to evaluate the conservation of these Strategies among other Poaceae, we identified the orthologs of these genes in nine species from the Oryza genus, maize and sorghum, and evaluated their expression profile in response to low Fe condition. Our results indicate that the Combined Strategy is not specific to O. sativa as previously proposed, but also present in species of the Oryza genus closely related to domesticated rice, and originated around the same time the AA genome lineage within Oryza diversified. Therefore, adaptation to Fe
Resistance genes composing the two-layer immune system of plants are thought as important markers for breeding pathogen-resistant crops. Many have been the attempts to establish relationships between the genomic content of Resistance Gene Analogs (RGAs) of modern sugarcane cultivars to its degrees of resistance to diseases such as smut. However, due to the highly polyploid and heterozygous nature of sugarcane genome, large scale RGA predictions is challenging. We predicted, searched for orthologs, and investigated the genomic features of RGAs within a recently released sugarcane elite cultivar genome, alongside the genomes of sorghum, one sugarcane ancestor (Saccharum spontaneum), and a collection of de novo transcripts generated for six modern cultivars. In addition, transcriptomes from two sugarcane genotypes were obtained to investigate the roles of RGAs differentially expressed (RGADE) in their distinct degrees of resistance to smut. Sugarcane references lack RGAs from the TNL class (Toll-Interleukin receptor (TIR) domain associated to nucleotide-binding site (NBS) and leucine-rich repeat (LRR) domains) and harbor elevated content of membrane-associated RGAs. Up to 39% of RGAs were organized in clusters, and 40% of those clusters shared synteny. Basically, 79% of predicted NBS-encoding genes are located in a few chromosomes. S. spontaneum chromosome 5 harbors most RGADE orthologs responsive to smut in modern sugarcane. Resistant sugarcane had an increased number of RGAs differentially expressed from both classes of RLK (receptor-like kinase) and RLP (receptor-like protein) as compared to the smut-susceptible. Tandem duplications have largely contributed to the expansion of both RGA clusters and the predicted clades of RGADEs. Most of smut-responsive RGAs in modern sugarcane were potentially originated in chromosome 5 of the ancestral S. spontaneum genotype. Smut resistant and susceptible genotypes of sugarcane have a distinct pattern of RGADE. TM-LRR (transmembrane domains followed by LRR) family was the most responsive to the early moment of pathogen infection in the resistant genotype, suggesting the relevance of an innate immune system. This work can help to outline strategies for further understanding of allele and paralog expression of RGAs in sugarcane, and the results should help to develop a more applied procedure for the selection of resistant plants in sugarcane.
The phosphate transporter (PHT) family mediates the uptake and translocation of the essential macronutrient phosphorus (P) in plants. In this study, 27 PHT proteins in
Sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] is an important cereal crop noted for its ability to survive water-limiting conditions. Herein, we present an analytical workflow to explore the changes in histone modifications through plant developmental stages and two drought stresses in two sorghum genotypes that differ in their response to drought. Top-down mass spectrometry (MS) is an ideal method to profile histone modifications and distinguish closely related histone proteoforms. We analyzed leaves of 48 plants and identified 26 unique histone proteins and 677 unique histone proteoforms (124 full-length and 553 truncated proteoforms). We detected trimethylation on nearly all H2B N-termini where acetylation is commonly expected. In addition, an unexpected modification on H2A histones was assigned to N-pyruvic acid 2-iminylation based on its unique neutral loss of CO
Distantly related maize (Zea mays L.) inbred lines exhibit an exceptional degree of structural genomic diversity, which is probably unique among plants. This study systematically investigated the developmental and genotype-dependent regulation of the primary root transcriptomes of a genetically diverse panel of maize F1-hybrids and their parental inbred lines. While we observed substantial transcriptomic changes during primary root development, we demonstrated that hybrid-associated gene expression patterns, including differential, non-additive, and allele-specific transcriptome profiles, are particularly robust to these developmental fluctuations. For instance, differentially expressed genes with preferential expression in hybrids were highly conserved during development in comparison to their parental counterparts. Similarly, in hybrids a major proportion of non-additively expressed genes with expression levels between the parental values were particularly conserved during development. Importantly, in these expression patterns non-syntenic genes that evolved after the separation of the maize and sorghum lineages were systemically enriched. Furthermore, non-syntenic genes were substantially linked to the conservation of all surveyed gene expression patterns during primary root development. Among all F1-hybrids, between ~40% of the non-syntenic genes with unexpected allelic expression ratios and ~60% of the non-syntenic differentially and non-additively expressed genes were conserved and therefore robust to developmental changes. Hence, the enrichment of non-syntenic genes during primary root development might be involved in the developmental adaptation of maize roots and thus the superior performance of hybrids.
The small heat shock proteins (sHsps/Hsp20s) are the molecular chaperones that maintain proper folding, trafficking and disaggregation of proteins under diverse abiotic stress conditions. In the present investigation, a genome-wide scan revealed the presence of a total of 47 sHsps in Sorghum bicolor (SbsHsps), distributed across 10 subfamilies, the major subfamily being P (plastid) group with 17 genes. Chromosomes 1 and 3 appear as the hot spot regions for SbsHsps, and majority of them were found acidic, hydrophilic, unstable and intron less. Interestingly, promoter analysis indicated that they are associated with both biotic and abiotic stresses, as well as plant development. Sorghum sHsps exhibited 15 paralogous and 20 orthologous duplications. Expression analysis of 15 genes selected from different subfamilies showed high transcript levels in roots and leaves implying that they are likely to participate in the developmental processes. SbsHsp genes were highly induced by diverse abiotic stresses inferring their critical role in mediating the environmental stress responses. Gene expression data revealed that SbsHsp-02 is a candidate gene expressed in all the tissues under varied stress conditions tested. Our results contribute to the understanding of the complexity of SbsHsp genes and help to analyse them further for functional validation.
ERECTA (ER) is a leucine-rich repeat-receptor-like kinase gene (LRR-RLK) encoding a protein isolated from Arabidopsis. Although the regulatory functions of ER genes have been widely explored in plant development and disease resistance, their roles in drought stress responses remain to be clarified. In this study, we cloned and characterized two ER genes, SbER1-1 and SbER2-1, from the drought-tolerant model plant sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.). Under drought stress, the two genes were expressed in the leaves and stems but not in the roots, and SbER2-1 transcript accumulation in the stem was increased. SbER2-1 was localized both on the plasma membrane and in the chloroplast. Moreover, SbER2-1 expression in Arabidopsis and maize conferred increased drought tolerance, especially in regard to water-use efficiency, increasing the net photosynthetic rate in maize under drought stress. Based on RNA-Seq analysis together with the physiological data, we conclude that the transgenic maize plants have upregulated phenylpropanoid metabolism and increased lignin accumulation under drought stress. Our results demonstrate that SbER2-1 plays an important role in response to drought stress. Furthermore, photosynthetic systems and phenylpropanoid metabolism are implicated in SbER2-1-mediated drought stress tolerance mechanisms. The use of genetic engineering to regulate SbER2-1 expression in plants and to breed new varieties tolerant to drought is a research field full of potential.
Assembling meaningful comparisons between species is a major limitation in studying the evolution of organismal form. To understand development in maize and sorghum, closely related species with architecturally distinct inflorescences, we collected RNA-seq profiles encompassing inflorescence body-plan specification in both species. We reconstructed molecular ontogenies from 40 B73 maize tassels and 47 BTx623 sorghum panicles and separated them into transcriptional stages. To discover new markers of inflorescence development, we used random forest machine learning to determine stage by RNA-seq. We used two descriptions of transcriptional conservation to identify hourglass-like stages during inflorescence development. Despite a relatively short 12 million years since their last common ancestor, we found maize and sorghum inflorescences are most different during their hourglass-like stages of development, following an inverse-hourglass model of development. We discuss whether agricultural selection may account for the rapid divergence signatures in these species and the observed separation of evolutionary pressure and developmental reprogramming.
In field conditions, crops are adversely affected by a wide range of abiotic stresses including drought, cold, salt, and heat, as well as biotic stresses including pests and pathogens. These stresses can have a marked effect on crop yield. The present and future effects of climate change necessitate the improvement of crop stress tolerance. Plants have evolved sophisticated stress response strategies, and genes that encode transcription factors (TFs) that are master regulators of stress-responsive genes are excellent candidates for crop improvement. Related examples in recent studies include TF gene modulation and overexpression approaches in crop species to enhance stress tolerance. However, much remains to be discovered about the diverse plant TFs. Of the >80 TF families, only a few, such as NAC, MYB, WRKY, bZIP, and ERF/DREB, with vital roles in abiotic and biotic stress responses have been intensively studied. Moreover, although significant progress has been made in deciphering the roles of TFs in important cereal crops, fewer TF genes have been elucidated in sorghum. As a model drought-tolerant crop, sorghum research warrants further focus. This review summarizes recent progress on major TF families associated with abiotic and biotic stress tolerance and their potential for crop improvement, particularly in sorghum. Other TF families and non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression are discussed briefly. Despite the emphasis on sorghum, numerous examples from wheat, rice, maize, and barley are included. Collectively, the aim of this review is to illustrate the potential application of TF genes for stress tolerance improvement and the engineering of resistant crops, with an emphasis on sorghum.
Functional divergence after gene duplication plays a central role in plant evolution. Among cereals, only Hordeum vulgare (barley), Triticum aestivum (wheat) and Secale cereale (rye) accumulate delphinidin-derived (blue) anthocyanins in the aleurone layer of grains, whereas Oryza sativa (rice), Zea mays (maize) and Sorghum bicolor (sorghum) do not. The underlying genetic basis for this natural occurrence remains elusive. Here, we mapped the barley Blx1 locus involved in blue aleurone to an approximately 1.13 Mb genetic interval on chromosome 4HL, thus identifying a trigenic cluster named MbHF35 (containing HvMYB4H, HvMYC4H and HvF35H). Sequence and expression data supported the role of these genes in conferring blue-coloured (blue aleurone) grains. Synteny analyses across monocot species showed that MbHF35 has only evolved within distinct Triticeae lineages, as a result of dispersed gene duplication. Phylogeny analyses revealed a shared evolution pattern for MbHF35 in Triticeae, suggesting that these genes have co-evolved together. We also identified a Pooideae-specific flavonoid 3',5'-hydroxylase (F3'5'H) lineage, termed here Mo_F35H2, which has a higher amino acid similarity with eudicot F3'5'Hs, demonstrating a scenario of convergent evolution. Indeed, selection tests identified 13 amino acid residues in Mo_F35H2 that underwent positive selection, possibly driven by protein thermostablility selection. Furthermore, through the interrogation of barley germplasm there is evidence that HvMYB4H and HvMYC4H have undergone human selection. Collectively, our study favours blue aleurone as a recently evolved trait resulting from environmental adaptation. Our findings provide an evolutionary explanation for the absence of blue anthocyanins in other cereals and highlight the importance of gene functional divergence for plant diversity and environmental adaptation.
Auxin response factor (ARF) is a transcription factor that can specifically bind to the promoter of auxin-responsive genes in plants and plays an important regulatory role in plant growth and development. The previous studies have predicted 25
Cell walls are basically complex with dynamic structures that are being involved in several growth and developmental processes, as well as responses to environmental stresses and the defense mechanism. Pectin is secreted into the cell wall in a highly methylesterified form. It is able to perform function after the de-methylesterification by pectin methylesterase (PME). Whereas, the pectin methylesterase inhibitor (PMEI) plays a key role in plant cell wall modification through inhibiting the PME activity. It provides pectin with different levels of degree of methylesterification to affect the cell wall structures and properties. The PME activity was analyzed in six tissues of
Bird predation during seed maturation causes great loss to agricultural production. In this study, through GWAS analysis of a large-scale sorghum germplasm diversity panel, we identified that Tannin1, which encodes a WD40 protein functioning in the WD40/MYB/bHLH complex, controls bird feeding behavior in sorghum. Metabolic profiling analysis showed that a group of sorghum accessions preferred by birds contain mutated tan1-a/b alleles and accumulate significantly lower levels of anthocyanins and condensed tannin compounds. In contrast, a variety of aromatic and fatty acid-derived volatiles accumulate at significantly higher levels in these bird-preference accessions. We subsequently conducted both sparrow feeding and sparrow volatile attractant assays, which confirmed, respectively, the antifeedant and attractant functions of these differentially accumulated metabolites. In addition, the connection between the biosynthesis pathway of anthocyanin and proanthocyanidin and the pathway of fatty acid-derived volatile biosynthesis was demonstrated by discovering that Tannin1 complex modulates fatty acid biosynthesis by regulating the expression of SbGL2 in sorghum, thus affecting the accumulation of fatty acid-derived volatiles. Taken together, our study identified Tannin1 as the gene underlying the major locus controlling bird feeding behavior in sorghum, illustrating an example of the identification of an ecologically impactful molecular mechanism from field observation and providing significant insights into the chemistry of bird-plant ecological interactions.
Oxidative stress is one of the primary factors leading to endothelial dysfunction, a major underlying cause of vascular disorders. This study aims to understand the key signalling pathways regulated by sorghum (Shawaya short black 1 variety; characterised to be very high in its antioxidant activity) under oxidative stress in endothelial cells. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were pre-treated with non-cytotoxic concentrations of phenolic-rich black sorghum extract (BSE) prior to induction of oxidative stress using hydrogen peroxide (H
This study focused on identifying bladder cancer (BC)-associated genes, transcription factors (TFs), and microRNAs (miRNAs). Two microarray data sets GSE37815 and GSE40355 were utilized to screen common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with BC. Then, functional enrichment analysis was performed for elucidating the involved functions of DEGs. Subsequently, the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and submodule of PPI network were analyzed. Finally, the regulation relationships of TF-DEGs and miRNA-DEGs were obtained to construct miRNA-target-TF regulatory network. DEGs were identified across BC and normal bladder tissues samples. Functional enrichment analysis results showed that most upregulated DEGs were closely associated with the Gene Ontology function of "mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint" and pathway of "Cell cycle," whereas most downregulated DEGs were significantly associated with "Complement and coagulation cascades" pathway (e.g.,
A major limitation for the utilization of sorghum forage is the production of the cyanogenic glycoside dhurrin in its leaves and stem that may cause the death of cattle feeding on it at the pre-flowering stage. Therefore, we attempted to develop transgenic sorghum plants with reduced levels of hydrogen cyanide (HCN) by antisense mediated down-regulation of the expression of cytochrome P450 CYP79A1, the key enzyme of the dhurrin biosynthesis pathway.
Members of the plant Heme Activator Protein (HAP) or NUCLEAR FACTOR Y (NF-Y) are trimeric transcription factor complexes composed of the NF-YA, NF-YB and NF-YC subfamilies. They bind to the CCAAT box in the promoter regions of the target genes and regulate gene expressions. Plant NF-Ys were reported to be involved in adaptation to several abiotic stresses as well as in development. In silico analysis of Sorghum bicolor genome resulted in the identification of a total of 42 NF-Y genes, among which 8 code for the SbNF-YA, 19 for SbNF-YB and 15 for the SbNF-YC subunits. Analysis was also performed to characterize gene structures, chromosomal distribution, duplication status, protein subcellular localizations, conserved motifs, ancestral protein sequences, miRNAs and phylogenetic tree construction. Phylogenetic relationships and ortholog predictions displayed that sorghum has additional NF-YB genes with unknown functions in comparison with Arabidopsis. Analysis of promoters revealed that they harbour many stress-related cis-elements like ABRE and HSE, but surprisingly, DRE and MYB elements were not detected in any of the subfamilies. SbNF-YA1, 2, and 6 were found upregulated under 200 mM salt and 200 mM mannitol stresses. While NF-YA7 appeared associated with high temperature (40°C) stress, NF-YA8 was triggered by both cold (4°C) and high temperature stresses. Among NF-YB genes, 7, 12, 15, and 16 were induced under multiple stress conditions such as salt, mannitol, ABA, cold and high temperatures. Likewise, NF-YC 6, 11, 12, 14, and 15 were enhanced significantly in a tissue specific manner under multiple abiotic stress conditions. Majority of the mannitol (drought)-inducible genes were also induced by salt, high temperature stresses and ABA. Few of the high temperature stress-induced genes are also induced by cold stress (NF-YA2, 4, 6, 8, NF-YB2, 7, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 17, NF-YC4, 6, 12, and 13) thus suggesting a cross talk among them. This work paves the way for investigating the roles of diverse sorghum NF-Y proteins during abiotic stress responses and provides an insight into the evolution of diverse NF-Y members.
Understanding male gametophyte development is essential to augment hybrid production in sorghum. Although small RNAs are known to critically influence anther/pollen development, their roles in sorghum reproduction have not been deciphered yet. Here, we report small RNA profiling and high-confidence annotation of microRNAs (miRNAs) from meiotic and post-meiotic anthers in sorghum. We identified 262 miRNAs (82 known and 180 novel), out of which 58 (35 known and 23 novel) exhibited differential expression between two stages. Out of 35 differentially expressed known miRNAs, 13 are known to regulate anther/pollen development in other plant species. We also demonstrated conserved spatiotemporal patterns of 21- and 24-nt phasiRNAs and their respective triggers, miR2118 and miR2275, in sorghum anthers as evidenced in other monocots. miRNA target identification yielded 5622 modules, of which 46 modules comprising 16 known and 8 novel miRNA families with 38 target genes are prospective candidates for engineering male fertility in grasses.
Hybrid proline-rich proteins (HyPRPs) belong to the family of 8-cysteine motif (8CM) containing proteins that play important roles in plant development processes, and tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses. To gain insight into the rice HyPRPs, we performed a systematic genome-wide analysis and identified 45
The genetics and responses to biotic stressors of tetraploid switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) lowland cultivar 'Kanlow' and upland cultivar Summer are distinct and can be exploited for trait improvement. In general, there is a paucity of data on the basal differences in transcription across tissue developmental times for switchgrass cultivars. Here, the changes in basal and temporal expression of genes related to leaf functions were evaluated for greenhouse grown 'Kanlow', and 'Summer' plants. Three biological replicates of the 4th leaf pooled from 15 plants per replicate were harvested at regular intervals beginning from leaf emergence through senescence. Increases and decreases in leaf chlorophyll and N content were similar for both cultivars. Likewise, multidimensional scaling (MDS) analysis indicated both cultivar-independent and cultivar-specific gene expression. Cultivar-independent genes and gene-networks included those associated with leaf function, such as growth/senescence, carbon/nitrogen assimilation, photosynthesis, chlorophyll biosynthesis, and chlorophyll degradation. However, many genes encoding nucleotide-binding leucine rich repeat (NB-LRRs) proteins and wall-bound kinases associated with detecting and responding to environmental signals were differentially expressed. Several of these belonged to unique cultivar-specific gene co-expression networks. Analysis of genomic resequencing data provided several examples of NB-LRRs genes that were not expressed and/or apparently absent in the genomes of Summer plants. It is plausible that cultivar (ecotype)-specific genes and gene-networks could be one of the drivers for the documented differences in responses to leaf-borne pathogens between these two cultivars. Incorporating broad resistance to plant pathogens in elite switchgrass germplasm could improve sustainability of biomass production under low-input conditions.
Azotobacters have been used as biofertilizer since more than a century. Azotobacters fix nitrogen aerobically, elaborate plant hormones, solubilize phosphates and also suppress phytopathogens or reduce their deleterious effect. Application of wild type Azotobacters results in better yield of cereals like corn, wheat, oat, barley, rice, pearl millet and sorghum, of oil seeds like mustard and sunflower, of vegetable crops like tomato, eggplant, carrot, chillies, onion, potato, beans and sugar beet, of fruits like mango and sugar cane, of fiber crops like jute and cotton and of tree like oak. In addition to the structural genes of the enzyme nitrogenase and of other accessory proteins, A. vinelandii chromosomes contain the regulatory genes nifL and nifA. NifA must bind upstream of the promoters of all nif operons for enabling their expression. NifL on activation by oxygen or ammonium, interacts with NifA and neutralizes it. Nitrogen fixation has been enhanced by deletion of nifL and by bringing nifA under the control of a constitutive promoter, resulting in a strain that continues to fix nitrogen in presence of urea fertilizer. Additional copies of nifH (the gene for the Fe-protein of nitrogenase) have been introduced into A. vinelandii, thereby augmenting nitrogen fixation. The urease gene complex ureABC has been deleted, the ammonia transport gene amtB has been disrupted and the expression of the glutamine synthase gene has been regulated to enhance urea and ammonia excretion. Gluconic acid has been produced by introducing the glucose dehydrogenase gene, resulting in enhanced solubilization of phosphate.
To grow and thrive plants must be able to adapt to both adverse environmental conditions and attack by a variety of pests. Elucidating the sophisticated mechanisms plants have developed to achieve this has been the focus of many studies. What is less well understood is how plants respond when faced with multiple stressors simultaneously. In this study, we assess the response of Zea mays (maize) to the combinatorial stress of flooding and infestation with the insect pest Spodoptera frugiperda (fall armyworm). This combined stress leads to elevated production of the defence hormone salicylic acid, which does not occur in the individual stresses, and the resultant salicylic acid-dependent increase in S. frugiperda resistance. Remodelling of phenylpropanoid pathways also occurs in response to this combinatorial stress leading to increased production of the anti-insect C-glycosyl flavones (maysins) and the herbivore-induced volatile phenolics, benzyl acetate, and phenethyl acetate. Furthermore, changes in cellular redox status also occur, as indicated by reductions in peroxidase and polyphenol oxidase activity. These data suggest that metabolite changes important for flooding tolerance and anti-insect defence may act both additively and synergistically to provide extra protection to the plant.
As one of the most important transcription factor families, GRAS proteins are involved in numerous regulatory processes, especially plant growth and development. However, they have not been systematically analyzed in Brachypodium distachyon, a new model grass. In this study, 48 BdGRAS genes were identified. Duplicated genes account for 41.7% of them and contribute to the expansion of this gene family. 33, 39, 35 and 35 BdGRAS genes were identified by synteny with their orthologs in rice, sorghum, maize and wheat genome, respectively, indicating close relationships among these species. Based on their phylogenic relationships to GRAS genes in rice and maize, BdGRAS genes can be divided into ten subfamilies in which members of the same subfamily showed similar protein sequences, conserved motifs and gene structures, suggesting possible conserved functions. Although expression variation is high, some BdGRAS genes are tissue-specific, phytohormones- or abiotic stresses-responsive, and they may play key roles in development, signal transduction pathways and stress responses. In addition, DELLA genes BdSLR1 and BdSLRL1 were functionally characterized to play a role in plant growth via the GA signal pathway, consistent with GO annotations and KEGG pathway analyses. Systematic analyses of BdGRAS genes indicated that members of the same subfamily may play similar roles. This was supported by the conserved functions of BdSLR1 and BdSLRL1 in GA pathway. These results laid a foundation for further functional elucidation of BdGRAS genes, especially, BdSLR1 and BdSLRL1.
Morphological and genetic markers indicate that in sorghum, the juvenile-to-adult phase transition occurs during the fourth and fifth leaf stages. This timing differs from those reported for other plants. The juvenile-to-adult (JA) phase transition is an important event for optimizing vegetative growth and reproductive success in plants. Among the Poaceae crops, which are a vital food source for humans, studies of the JA phase transition have been restricted to rice and maize. We studied the morphological and genetic changes that occur during the early development of sorghum and found that dramatic changes occur in shoot architecture during the early vegetative stages. Changes were observed in leaf size, leaf shape, numbers of trichomes, and size of the shoot apical meristem. In particular, the length/width ratios of the leaf blades in the fifth and upper leaves were completely different from those of the second to fourth leaves. The fifth and upper leaves have trichomes on their adaxial sides, which were absent on the lower leaves. We also analyzed expression of two microRNAs that are known to be molecular markers of the JA phase transition and found that expression of miR156 was highest in the second to fourth leaves and then was gradually down-regulated, whereas miR172 expression followed the opposite pattern. These results suggest that in sorghum, the second and third leaves represent the juvenile phase, the fourth and fifth leaves are in the transition stage, and the sixth and upper leaves are in the adult phase. Thus, the JA phase transition occurs during the fourth and fifth leaf stages. These findings are expected to be useful for understanding the early development of sorghum.
AT-hook motif nuclear localized (AHL) genes have diverse but poorly understood biological functions. We identified and analyzed 37 AHL genes in maize. We also discovered four and one additional AHLs in rice and sorghum, respectively, besides those reported earlier. The maize AHLs were classified into two clades (A and B) and three distinct types (I, II, and III) as also reported in Arabidopsis. Phylogenetic and ortholog analyses showed that, while the evolutionary classification was conserved in plants, expansion of the AHL gene family in maize was accompanied with new biological functions. Gene structure analysis showed that, while all but one Type-I AHLs lacked an intron, origin of Type-II and Type-III AHLs was associated with the gain of introns suggesting evolutionarily distinct temporal and spatial expression patterns and, likely, neofunctionalization. Gene duplication analysis revealed that AHLs in maize expanded via dispersive duplication further supporting their functional diversity. To discern these functions, we analyzed 71 transcriptomes from diverse tissues and developmental stages of maize and classified AHLs into eight groups with distinct temporal/spatial expression profiles. Coexpression analysis implicated 5 AHLs and 33 novel genes in networks specific to endosperm, seed, root, leaf, and reproductive tissues indicating their role in the development of these organs. Major processes coregulated by AHLs include pollen development, drought response, senescence, and wound response. We also identified interactions of AHL proteins in coregulating important processes including stress response. These novel insights into the role of AHLs in plant development provide a platform for functional analyses in maize and related grasses.
WRKY transcription factors are key regulators in regulating abiotic or biotic stress response in Arabidopsis. Previous studies showed that WRKY30 expression was induced by oxidative stress treatment, fungal elicitor, SA and ABA. However, functions of WRKY30 on viral defense are not well studied. Here, we found that Arabidopsis WRKY DNA binding protein 30 (WRKY30) plays essential roles in regulating Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) resistance. The expression of WRKY30 was induced by CMV infection and wrky30 mutant displayed more susceptibility (including higher oxidative damages, induced reactive oxygen species synthesis and more PSII photochemistry compromise), while WRKY30 overexpression plants (WRKY30OX) exhibited more resistance to CMV infection. Moreover BRs-induced CMV tolerance is partly dependent on WRKY30. And WRKY30 expression increased after BL treatment. All these demonstrated that WRKY30 works as a positive regulator in plant CMV resistance process.
Phosphorus (P) deficiency in soil is a worldwide issue and a major constraint on the production of sorghum, which is an important staple food, forage and energy crop. The depletion of P reserves and the increasing price of P fertilizer make fertilizer application impractical, especially in developing countries. Therefore, identifying sorghum accessions with low-P tolerance and understanding the underlying molecular basis for this tolerance will facilitate the breeding of P-efficient plants, thereby resolving the P crisis in sorghum farming. However, knowledge in these areas is very limited. The 29 sorghum accessions used in this study demonstrated great variability in their tolerance to low-P stress. The internal P content in the shoot was correlated with P tolerance. A low-P-tolerant accession and a low-P-sensitive accession were chosen for RNA-seq analysis to identify potential underlying molecular mechanisms. A total of 2089 candidate genes related to P starvation tolerance were revealed and found to be enriched in 11 pathways. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analyses showed that the candidate genes were associated with oxidoreductase activity. In addition, further study showed that malate affected the length of the primary root and the number of tips in sorghum suffering from low-P stress. Our results show that acquisition of P from soil contributes to low-P tolerance in different sorghum accessions; however, the underlying molecular mechanism is complicated. Plant hormone (including auxin, ethylene, jasmonic acid, salicylic acid and abscisic acid) signal transduction related genes and many transcriptional factors were found to be involved in low-P tolerance in sorghum. The identified accessions will be useful for breeding new sorghum varieties with enhanced P starvation tolerance.
In higher plants, the post-translational modification of target proteins via the attachment of molecules such as ubiquitin (Ub) mediates a variety of cellular functions via the Ub/26S proteasome system. Here, a really interesting new gene (RING)-H2 type E3 ligase, which regulates target proteins via the Ub/26S proteasome system, was isolated from a rice plant, and its other grass orthologs were examined to determine the evolution of its molecular function during speciation. The gene encoding Oryza sativa cytoplasmic-localized RING finger protein 1 (OsCLR1) was highly expressed under salt and drought stresses. By contrast, the three grass orthologs, SbCLR1 from Sorghum bicolor, ZmCLR1 from Zea mays and TaCLR1 from Triticum aestivum, showed different responses to these stresses. Despite these differences, all four orthologs exhibited E3 ligase activity with cytosol-targeted localization, demonstrating conserved molecular functions. Although OsCLR1-overexpressing plants showed higher survival rates under both salt and drought stresses than that of the wild type (WT) plants, this pattern was not observed in the other orthologs. In addition, OsCLR1-overexpressing plants exhibited lower germination rates in ABA than that of WT plants, whereas the three ortholog CLR1-overexpressing plants showed rates similar to the WT plants. These results indicate the positive regulation of OsCLR1 in response to salt and drought in an ABA-dependent manner. Despite the molecular functions of the three CLR1 orthologs remaining largely unknown, our results provide an insight into the evolutionary fate of CLR1 grass orthologs during speciation after the divergence from a common ancestor.
SPLs are plant-specific transcription factors that play important regulatory roles in plant growth and development. Systematic analysis of the SPL family has been performed in numerous plants, such as Arabidopsis, rice, and Populus. However, no comparative analysis has been performed across different species to examine evolutionary features. In this study, we present a comparative analysis of SPLs in different species. The results showed that 84 SPLs of the four species can be divided into six groups according to phylogeny. We found that most of the SPL-containing regions in maize showed extensive conservation with duplicated regions of rice and sorghum. A gene duplication analysis in maize indicated that ZmSPLs showed a significant excess of segmental duplication. The Ka/Ks analysis indicated that 9 out of 18 duplicated pairs in maize experienced positive selection, while SPL gene pairs of rice and sorghum mainly evolved under purifying selection, suggesting novel evolutionary features for ZmSPLs. The 31 ZmSPLs were further analyzed by describing their gene structure, phylogenetic relationships, chromosomal location, and expression, Among the ZmSPLs, 13 were predicated to be targeted by miR156s and involved in drought stress response. These results provide the foundation for future functional analyses of ZmSPLs.
Sweet sorghums were identified that accumulate up to ~9% of their total stem dry weight as starch. Starch accumulated preferentially in stem pith parenchyma in close proximity to vascular bundles. Stem starch accumulated slowly between floral initiation and anthesis and more rapidly between anthesis and 43 days post-anthesis before declining in parallel with tiller outgrowth. Genes involved in stem starch metabolism were identified through phylogenetic approaches and RNA-seq analysis of Della stem gene expression during the starch accumulation phase of development. Genes differentially expressed in stems were identified that are involved in starch biosynthesis (i.e., AGPase SS/LS, starch synthases, starch-branching enzymes), degradation (i.e., glucan-water dikinase, β-amylase, disproportionating enzyme, alpha-glucan phosphorylase) and amyloplast sugar transport (glucose-6-P translocator). Transcripts encoding AGPase SS and LS subunits with plastid localization were differentially induced during stem starch accumulation indicating that ADP-glucose for starch biosynthesis is primarily generated in stem plastids. Cytosolic heteroglucan metabolism may play a role in stem sucrose/starch accumulation because genes encoding cytosolic forms of the disproportionating enzyme and alpha-glucan phosphorylase were induced in parallel with stem sucrose/starch accumulation. Information on the stem starch pathway obtained in this study will be useful for engineering sorghum stems with elevated starch thereby improving forage quality and the efficiency of biomass conversion to biofuels and bio-products.
Sorghum glycine rich proline rich protein (SbGPRP1) exhibit antimicrobial properties and play a crucial role during biotic stress condition. Several proteins in plants build up the innate immune response system in plants which get triggered during the occurrence of biotic stress. Here we report the functional characterization of a glycine-rich proline-rich protein (SbGPRP1) from Sorghum which was previously demonstrated to be involved in abiotic stresses. Expression studies carried out with SbGPRP1 showed induced expression upon application of phytohormones like salicylic acid which might be the key in fine-tuning the expression level. Upon challenging the Sorghum plants with a compatible pathogen the SbGprp1 transcript was found to be upregulated. SbGPRP1 encodes a 197 amino acid polypeptide which was bacterially-expressed and purified for in vitro assays. Gram-positive bacteria like Bacillus and phytopathogen Rhodococcus fascians showed inhibited growth in the presence of the protein. The NPN assay, electrolytic leakage and SEM analysis showed membrane damage in bacterial cells. Ectopic expression of SbGPRP1 in tobacco plants led to enhanced tolerance towards infection caused by R. fascians. Though the N-terminal part of the protein showed disorderness the C-terminal end was quite capable of forming several α-helices which was correlated with CD spectroscopic analysis. Here, we have tried to determine the structural model for the protein and predicted the association of antimicrobial activity with the C-terminal region of the protein.
Alternative splicing (AS) promotes transcriptome and proteome diversity during growth, development, and stress responses in eukaryotes. Genome-wide studies of AS in sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) are lacking, mainly due to the absence of a high-quality sequenced reference genome, sugarcane's large, complex genome, and the variable chromosome numbers and polyploidy of sugarcane cultivars. Here, we analyzed changes in the sugarcane isoform-level transcriptome and AS landscape during infection with the smut fungus (Sporisorium scitamineum) using a hybrid approach involving Sorghum bicolor reference-based and Trinity de novo mapping tools. In total, this analysis detected 16,039 and 15,379 transcripts (≥2 FPKM) at 5 and 200 days after infection, respectively. A conservative estimate of isoform-level expression suggested that approximately 5,000 (14%) sugarcane genes undergo AS. Differential expression analysis of the alternatively spliced genes in healthy and smut-infected sugarcane revealed 896 AS events modulated at different stages of infection. Gene family and gene ontology functional enrichment analysis of the differentially spliced genes revealed overrepresentation of functional categories related to the cell wall, defense, and redox homeostasis pathways. Our study provides novel insight into the AS landscape of sugarcane during smut disease interactions.
Juncus effusus L. (family: Juncaceae; order: Poales) is a helophytic rush growing in temperate damp or wet terrestrial habitats and is of almost cosmopolitan distribution. The species has been studied intensively with respect to its interaction with co-occurring plants as well as microbes being involved in major biogeochemical cycles. J. effusus has biotechnological value as component of Constructed Wetlands where the plant has been employed in phytoremediation of contaminated water. Its genome has not been sequenced. In this study we carried out functional annotation and polymorphism analysis of de novo assembled RNA-Seq data from 18 genotypes using 249 million paired-end Illumina HiSeq reads and 2.8 million 454 Titanium reads. The assembly comprised 158,591 contigs with a mean contig length of 780 bp. The assembly was annotated using the dammit! annotation pipeline, which queries the databases OrthoDB, Pfam-A, Rfam, and runs BUSCO (Benchmarking Single-Copy Ortholog genes). In total, 111,567 contigs (70.3%) were annotated with functional descriptions, assigned gene ontology terms, and conserved protein domains, which resulted in 30,932 non-redundant gene sequences. Results of BUSCO and KEGG pathway analyses were similar for J. effusus as for the well-studied members of the Poales, Oryza sativa and Sorghum bicolor. A total of 566,433 polymorphisms were identified in transcribed regions with an average frequency of 1 polymorphism in every 171 bases. The transcriptome assembly was of high quality and genome coverage was sufficient for global analyses. This annotated knowledge resource can be utilized for future gene expression analysis, genomic feature comparisons, genotyping, primer design, and functional genomics in J. effusus.
The Teosinte-branched 1/Cycloidea/Proliferating (TCP) plant-specific transcription factors (TFs) have been demonstrated to play a fundamental role in plant development and organ patterning. However, it remains unknown whether or not the
Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) is a low input, high biomass perennial grass being developed for the bioenergy sector. Upland and lowland cultivars can differ in their responses to insect herbivory. Fall armyworm [FAW; Spodoptera frugiperda JE Smith (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae)] is a generalist pest of many plant species and can feed on switchgrass as well. Here, in two different trials, FAW larval mass were significantly reduced when fed on lowland cultivar Kanlow relative to larvae fed on upland cultivar Summer plants after 10 days. Hormone content of plants indicated elevated levels of the plant defense hormone jasmonic acid (JA) and its bioactive conjugate JA-Ile although significant differences were not observed. Conversely, the precursor to JA, 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid (OPDA) levels were significantly different between FAW fed Summer and Kanlow plants raising the possibility of differential signaling by OPDA in the two cultivars. Global transcriptome analysis revealed a stronger response in Kanlow plant relative to Summer plants. Among these changes were a preferential upregulation of several branches of terpenoid and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis in Kanlow plants suggesting that enhanced biosynthesis or accumulation of antifeedants could have negatively impacted FAW larval mass gain on Kanlow plants relative to Summer plants. A comparison of the switchgrass-FAW RNA-Seq dataset to those from maize-FAW and switchgrass-aphid interactions revealed that key components of plant responses to herbivory, including induction of JA biosynthesis, key transcription factors and JA-inducible genes were apparently conserved in switchgrass and maize. In addition, these data affirm earlier studies with FAW and aphids that the cultivar Kanlow can provide useful genetics for the breeding of switchgrass germplasm with improved insect resistance.
12-hydroxy-jasmonoyl-isoleucine (12OH-JA-Ile) is a metabolite in the catabolic pathway of the plant hormone jasmonate, and is synthesized by the cytochrome P450 subclade 94 enzymes. Contrary to the well-established function of jasmonoyl-isoleucine (JA-Ile) as the endogenous bioactive form of jasmonate, the function of 12OH-JA-Ile is unclear. Here, the potential role of 12OH-JA-Ile in jasmonate signaling and wound response was investigated. Exogenous application of 12OH-JA-Ile mimicked several JA-Ile effects including marker gene expression, anthocyanin accumulation and trichome induction in Arabidopsis thaliana. Genome-wide transcriptomics and untargeted metabolite analyses showed large overlaps between those affected by 12OH-JA-Ile and JA-Ile. 12OH-JA-Ile signaling was blocked by mutation in CORONATINE INSENSITIVE 1. Increased anthocyanin accumulation by 12OH-JA-Ile was additionally observed in tomato and sorghum, and was disrupted by the COI1 defect in tomato jai1 mutant. In silico ligand docking predicted that 12OH-JA-Ile can maintain many of the key interactions with COI1-JAZ1 residues identified earlier by crystal structure studies using JA-Ile as ligand. Genetic alternation of jasmonate metabolic pathways in Arabidopsis to deplete both JA-Ile and 12OH-JA-Ile displayed enhanced jasmonate deficient wound phenotypes and was more susceptible to insect herbivory than that depleted in only JA-Ile. Conversely, mutants overaccumulating 12OH-JA-Ile showed intensified wound responses compared with wild type with similar JA-Ile content. These data are indicative of 12OH-JA-Ile functioning as an active jasmonate signal and contributing to wound and defense response in higher plants.
The process of crop domestication often consists of two stages: initial domestication, where the wild species is first cultivated by humans, followed by diversification, when the domesticated species are subsequently adapted to more environments and specialized uses. Selective pressure to increase sugar accumulation in certain varieties of the cereal crop Sorghum bicolor is an excellent example of the latter; this has resulted in pronounced phenotypic divergence between sweet and grain-type sorghums, but the genetic mechanisms underlying these differences remain poorly understood. Here we present a new reference genome based on an archetypal sweet sorghum line and compare it to the current grain sorghum reference, revealing a high rate of nonsynonymous and potential loss of function mutations, but few changes in gene content or overall genome structure. We also use comparative transcriptomics to highlight changes in gene expression correlated with high stalk sugar content and show that changes in the activity and possibly localization of transporters, along with the timing of sugar metabolism play a critical role in the sweet phenotype. The high level of genomic similarity between sweet and grain sorghum reflects their historical relatedness, rather than their current phenotypic differences, but we find key changes in signaling molecules and transcriptional regulators that represent new candidates for understanding and improving sugar metabolism in this important crop.
Cyanogenic glycosides are defense compounds found in a wide range of plant species, including many crops. We demonstrate that the cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin, naturally found in sorghum, can be produced at high titers in
Plant cell walls play a fundamental role in several ways, providing structural support for cells, resistance against pathogens and facilitating the communication between cells. The glycosyltransferase family 8 (GT8) is involved in the formation of the plant cell wall. However, the evolutionary relationship and the functional differentiation of this important gene family remain obscure in Gramineae crop genomes. In the present investigation, we identified 269 GT8 genes in the seven Gramineae representative crop genomes, namely, 33 in
Cysteine-rich receptor-like kinases (CRK) constitute one of the largest subfamily of receptor-like kinases, which play crucial roles in plant development and stress response. In total, 43, 37, 36, 38 and 170 CRK genes including duplicated genes were identified in the genome of Brachypodium distachyon, Hordeum vulgare, Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor and Triticum aestivum, respectively. These CRK proteins were tightly clustered into four phylogenetic groups and exhibited close syntenic relationship among orthologous genes. Majority of CRK proteins contain a transmembrane domain for plasma membrane localization. The organization of exon/intron, domains and motifs were variably conserved. Tissue-specific expression suggested the involvement of certain CRK genes in plant development. Modulated expression revealed their specific stress-responsive functions. Co-expression and interaction analysis indicated their role in signaling. Ks value and divergence time analysis suggested duplication of TaCRK genes before the hybridization of T. aestivum sub-genomes. Expression comparison of duplicated TaCRK genes revealed functional retention, neofunctionalization or pseudo-functionalization. Recombinant expression of a stress-responsive gene TaCRK68-A in Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae displayed enhanced tolerance against heat, drought, cold and salinity stresses. The study suggested vital functions of CRKs during development and stresses, and provides the basis for functional characterization of each gene in future studies.
Gene duplication has played an important role in the evolution and domestication of flowering plants. Yet little is known about how plant duplicate genes evolve and are retained over long timescales, particularly those arising from small-scale duplication (SSD) rather than whole-genome duplication (WGD) events. We address this question in the Poaceae (grass) family by analyzing gene expression data from nine tissues of Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa japonica (rice), and Sorghum bicolor (sorghum). Consistent with theoretical predictions, expression profiles of most grass genes are conserved after SSD, suggesting that functional conservation is the primary outcome of SSD in grasses. However, we also uncover support for widespread functional divergence, much of which occurs asymmetrically via the process of neofunctionalization. Moreover, neofunctionalization preferentially targets younger (child) duplicate gene copies, is associated with RNA-mediated duplication, and occurs quickly after duplication. Further analysis reveals that functional divergence of SSD-derived genes is positively correlated with both sequence divergence and tissue specificity in all three grass species, and particularly with anther expression in B. distachyon. Our results suggest that SSD-derived grass genes often undergo rapid functional divergence that may be driven by natural selection on male-specific phenotypes. These observations are consistent with those in several animal species, suggesting that duplicate genes take similar evolutionary trajectories in plants and animals.
Sugarcane accumulates very high levels of sucrose in the culm. Elucidation of the molecular mechanisms that allows such high sucrose synthesis and accumulation (up to 650 mM) is made difficult by the complexity of the highly polyploid genome. Here we report the use of RNA Seq data to characterize the sucrose synthase (SuSy) genes expressed in the transcriptome of the mature sugarcane plant. Four SuSy gene families were identified in the sugarcane Iso-Seq long read transcriptome (SUGIT) through gene annotation of transcripts that mapped to reference SuSy genes from sorghum and maize. In total, 38, 19, 14, and 2 transcripts were identified for the four corresponding SuSy genes 1, 2, 4 and 7, respectively. Comparative studies using available SuSy genes from sorghum (1, 2, 4, 6, 7) and maize (1-7) revealed that the sugarcane SuSy genes were interrupted by multiple introns and that they share a highly conserved gene structure. Spatial expression of the four SuSy genes in sugarcane genotypes and in the progenitor species, Saccharum spontaneum and Saccharum officinarum, was studied in the leaf and root tissues and also in three regions of the culm tissue; top, middle and bottom internodes. Expression profiles indicated that all SuSy transcripts were differentially expressed between the top and bottom tissues, with high expression in the top tissues, lower expression in the bottom and moderate expression in the middle, indicating a gradient of SuSy activity in the sugarcane culm. Further, the root tissue had similar expression levels to that of the top internodes while leaf tissues showed lower expression. In the progenitors, SuSy7 was found to be highly expressed in S. officinarum while the other three SuSy genes had moderate expression in both the progenitors. The high expression of the SuSy genes in sink tissues, the top internodes and the roots suggests functional roles in sucrose utilization to support growth. The SuSy7 gene has not been previously reported in sugarcane. As sugarcane is unique in storing such high amounts of sucrose, it is possible that there are more SuSy genes/isoforms with specific expression patterns to be discovered in this complex system.
Wheat streak mosaic virus (WSMV; genus Tritimovirus; family Potyviridae) is an economically important wheat virus that is transmitted by the wheat curl mite (WCM; Aceria tosichella Keifer) in a persistent manner. Virus-vector coevolution may potentially influence vector gene expression to prolong viral association and thus increase virus transmission efficiency and spread. To understand the transcriptomic responses of WCM to WSMV, RNA sequencing was performed to assemble and analyse transcriptomes of WSMV viruliferous and aviruliferous mites. Among 7291 de novo-assembled unigenes, 1020 were differentially expressed between viruliferous and aviruliferous WCMs using edgeR at a false discovery rate ≤0.05. Differentially expressed unigenes were enriched for 108 gene ontology terms, with the majority of the unigenes showing downregulation in viruliferous mites in comparison to only a few unigenes that were upregulated. Protein family and metabolic pathway enrichment analyses revealed that most downregulated unigenes encoded enzymes and proteins linked to stress response, immunity and development. Mechanistically, these predicted changes in mite physiology induced by viral association could be suggestive of pathways needed for promoting virus-vector interactions. Overall, our data suggest that transcriptional changes in viruliferous mites facilitate prolonged viral association and alter WCM development to expedite population expansion, both of which could enhance viral transmission.
Glyoxalase pathway is a reactive carbonyl species (RCS) scavenging mechanism involved in the detoxification of methylglyoxal (MG), which is a reactive α-ketoaldehyde. In plants under abiotic stress, the cellular toxicity is reduced through glyoxalase pathway genes, i.e. Glyoxalase I (Gly I), Glyoxalase II (Gly II) and Glyoxalase III (Gly III). Salinity and water deficit stresses produce higher amounts of endogenous MG resulting in severe tissue damage. Thus, characterizing glyoxalase pathway genes that govern the MG metabolism should provide new insights on abiotic stress tolerance in Erianthus arundinaceus, a wild relative of sugarcane and commercial sugarcane hybrid (Co 86032). In this study, three glyoxalase genes (Glyoxalase I, II and III) from E. arundinaceus (a wild relative of sugarcane) and commercial sugarcane hybrid (Co 86032) were characterized. Comparative gene expression profiles (qRT-PCR) of Glyoxalase I, II and III under salinity and water deficit stress conditions revealed differential transcript expression with higher levels of Glyoxalase III in both the stress conditions. Significantly, E. arundinaceus had a higher expression level of glyoxalase genes compared to commercial sugarcane hybrid. On the other hand, gas exchange parameters like stomatal conductance and transpiration rate were declined to very low levels under both salt and drought induced stresses in commercial sugarcane hybrid when compared to E. arundinaceus. E. arundinaceus maintained better net photosynthetic rate compared to commercial sugarcane hybrid. The phylogenetic analysis of glyoxalase proteins showed its close evolutionary relationship with Sorghum bicolor and Zea mays. Glyoxalase I and II were predicted to possess 9 and 7 isoforms respectively whereas, Glyoxalase III couldn't be identified as it comes under uncharacterized protein identified in recent past. Chromosomal mapping is also carried out for glyoxalase pathway genes and its isoforms. Docking studies revealed the binding affinities of glyoxalase proteins in both E. arundinaceus and commercial sugarcane hybrid with their substrate molecules. This study emphasizes the role of Glyoxalase pathway genes in stress defensive mechanism which route to benefit in progressive plant adaptations and serves as potential candidates for development of salt and drought tolerant crops.
Worldwide cultivation of maize is often impacted negatively by drought stress. Hyperosmolality-gated calcium-permeable channels (OSCA) have been characterized as osmosensors in We predicted the protein domain structure and transmembrane regions by using the NCBI Conserved Domain Database database and TMHMM server separately. The phylogeny tree was built by Mega7. We used the mixed linear model in TASSEL to perform the family-based association analysis. In this report, 12
Sorghum bicolor is a drought-resilient facultative short-day C4 grass that is grown for grain, forage, and biomass. Adaptation of sorghum for grain production in temperate regions resulted in the selection of mutations in Maturity loci (Ma1 -Ma6) that reduced photoperiod sensitivity and resulted in earlier flowering in long days. Prior studies identified the genes associated with Ma1 (PRR37), Ma3 (PHYB), Ma5 (PHYC) and Ma6 (GHD7) and characterized their role in the flowering time regulatory pathway. The current study focused on understanding the function and identity of Ma2. Ma2 delayed flowering in long days by selectively enhancing the expression of SbPRR37 (Ma1) and SbCO, genes that co-repress the expression of SbCN12, a source of florigen. Genetic analysis identified epistatic interactions between Ma2 and Ma4 and located QTL corresponding to Ma2 on SBI02 and Ma4 on SBI10. Positional cloning and whole genome sequencing identified a candidate gene for Ma2, Sobic.002G302700, which encodes a SET and MYND (SYMD) domain lysine methyltransferase. Eight sorghum genotypes previously identified as recessive for Ma2 contained the mutated version of Sobic.002G302700 present in 80M (ma2) and one additional putative recessive ma2 allele was identified in diverse sorghum accessions.
The G protein-coupled receptor is one of the major transmembrane proteins in plants. It consists of an α subunit, a β subunit and three γ subunits. Chilling tolerant divergence 1 (COLD1) includes a Golgi pH receptor (GPHR) domain, which maintains cell membrane organisation and dynamics, along with abscisic acid linked G protein-coupled receptor (ABA_GPCR) that regulates the signalling pathways during cold stress. In the present study, we performed characterisation of a homologous COLD1 from the economically important monocot species Oryza sativa L., Zea mays L., Sorghum bicolor (L.)Moench and Erianthus arundinaceus (L.) Beauv. IK 76-81, a wild relative of Saccharum. COLD1 was isolated from E. arundinaceus IK 76-81, analysed for its evolution, domain, membrane topology, followed by prediction of secondary, tertiary structures and functionally validated in all four different monocots. Gene expression studies of COLD1 revealed differential expression under heat, drought, salinity and cold stresses in selected monocots. This is the first study on regulation of native COLD1 during abiotic stress in monocots, which has opened up new leads for trait improvement strategies in this economically important crop species.
Schizaphis graminum Rondani (Hemiptera: Aphididae) and Sipha flava Forbes (Hemiptera: Aphididae) are two common pests of bioenergy grasses. Despite the fact that they are both considered generalists, they differ in their ability to colonize Panicum virgatum cultivars. For example, S. flava colonizes both P. virgatum cv. Summer and P. virgatum cv. Kanlow whereas S. graminum can only colonize Summer. To study the molecular responses of these aphids to these two switchgrass cultivars, we generated de novo transcriptome assemblies and compared the expression profiles of aphids feeding on both cultivars to profiles associated with feeding on a highly susceptible sorghum host and a starvation treatment. Transcriptome assemblies yielded 8,428 and 8,866 high-quality unigenes for S. graminum and S. flava, respectively. Overall, S. graminum responded strongly to all three treatments after 12 h with an upregulation of unigenes coding for detoxification enzymes while major transcriptional changes were not observed in S. flava until 24 h. Additionally, while the two aphids responded to the switchgrass feeding treatment by downregulating unigenes linked to growth and development, their responses to Summer and Kanlow diverged significantly. Schizaphis graminum upregulated more unigenes coding for stress-responsive enzymes in the Summer treatment compared to S. flava; however, many of these unigenes were actually downregulated in the Kanlow treatment. In contrast, S. flava appeared capable of overcoming host defenses by upregulating a larger number of unigenes coding for detoxification enzymes in the Kanlow treatment. Overall, these findings are consistent with previous studies on the interactions of these two cereal aphids to divergent switchgrass hosts.
The wheat Lr34res allele, coding for an ATP-binding cassette transporter, confers durable resistance against multiple fungal pathogens. The Lr34sus allele, differing from Lr34res by two critical nucleotide polymorphisms, is found in susceptible wheat cultivars. Lr34res is functionally transferrable as a transgene into all major cereals, including rice, barley, maize, and sorghum. Here, we used transcriptomics, physiology, genetics, and in vitro and in vivo transport assays to study the molecular function of Lr34. We report that Lr34res results in a constitutive induction of transcripts reminiscent of an abscisic acid (ABA)-regulated response in transgenic rice. Lr34-expressing rice was altered in biological processes that are controlled by this phytohormone, including dehydration tolerance, transpiration and seedling growth. In planta seedling and in vitro yeast accumulation assays revealed that both LR34res and LR34sus act as ABA transporters. However, whereas the LR34res protein was detected in planta the LR34sus version was not, suggesting a post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism. Our results identify ABA as a substrate of the LR34 ABC transporter. We conclude that LR34res-mediated ABA redistribution has a major effect on the transcriptional response and physiology of Lr34res-expressing plants and that ABA is a candidate molecule that contributes to Lr34res-mediated disease resistance.
Herbicide safeners protect cereal crops from herbicide injury by inducing genes and proteins involved in detoxification reactions, such as glutathione
In rice (Oryza sativa), OsF2H and OsFNSII direct flavanones to independent pathways that form soluble flavone C-glycosides and tricin-type metabolites (both soluble and lignin-bound), respectively. Production of soluble tricin metabolites requires CYP75B4 as a chrysoeriol 5'-hydroxylase. Meanwhile, the close homologue CYP75B3 is a canonical flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase (F3'H). However, their precise roles in the biosynthesis of soluble flavone C-glycosides and tricin-lignins in cell walls remain unknown. We examined CYP75B3 and CYP75B4 expression in vegetative tissues, analyzed extractable flavonoid profiles, cell wall structure and digestibility of their mutants, and investigated catalytic activities of CYP75B4 orthologues in grasses. CYP75B3 and CYP75B4 showed co-expression patterns with OsF2H and OsFNSII, respectively. CYP75B3 is the sole F3'H in flavone C-glycosides biosynthesis, whereas CYP75B4 alone provides sufficient 3',5'-hydroxylation for tricin-lignin deposition. CYP75B4 mutation results in production of apigenin-incorporated lignin and enhancement of cell wall digestibility. Moreover, tricin pathway-specific 3',5'-hydroxylation activities are conserved in sorghum CYP75B97 and switchgrass CYP75B11. CYP75B3 and CYP75B4 represent two different pathway-specific enzymes recruited together with OsF2H and OsFNSII, respectively. Interestingly, the OsF2H-CYP75B3 and OsFNSII-CYP75B4 pairs appear to be conserved in grasses. Finally, manipulation of tricin biosynthesis through CYP75B4 orthologues can be a promising strategy to improve digestibility of grass biomass for biofuel and biomaterial production.
Maize dwarf mosaic virus (MDMV) and bermuda grass southern mosaic virus (BgSMV) is the most important cereal potyvirus in Iran. Expression of some key genes in maize plants susceptible and tolerant to MDMV or BgSMV and gene expression profile of MDMV and BgSMV compatible or incompatible to Johnson grass plants were studied. Time points of 1, 9, 24 and 72 h after inoculation with both viruses were investigated as well. By analyzing the expression of the genes, it was identified that in maize infected by MDMV and BgSMV, the transcript levels of the peroxiredoxin, GLP, SAM, NPR1 and chlorophyll a-b binding genes were significantly higher in the tolerant than in susceptible plants during the entire experiment. In the BgSMV inoculated Johnson grass plants, some of the genes related to plant defense responses including NPR1, peroxiredoxin and SAM had higher expression level than the Johnson grass plants inoculated by MDMV. Important genes in maize tolerance like NPR1 and MT-LP, were analyzed by trilinear decomposition analysis and genes clustering. The upregulated expression of genes at one-hour post inoculation showed that the plant response to viruses was activated at the early stage of infection. Keywords: MDMV; BgSMV; gene expression; quantitative real-time PCR; trilinear decomposition analysis.
Basal branching in grasses, or tillering, is an important trait determining both form and function of crops. Although similarities exist between eudicot and grass branching programs, one notable difference is that the tiller buds of grasses are covered by the subtending leaf, whereas eudicot buds are typically unconstrained. The current study shows that contact with the leaf sheath represses sorghum bud growth by providing a mechanical signal that cues the bud to refrain from rapid growth. Leaf removal resulted in massive reprogramming of the bud transcriptome that included signatures of epigenetic modifications and also implicated several hormones in the response. Bud abscisic acid transiently increased, then decreased following leaf removal relative to controls, and abscisic acid was necessary to repress bud growth in the presence of the leaf. Jasmonic acid (JA) levels and signalling increased in buds following leaf removal. Remarkably, application of JA to buds in situ promoted growth. The repression of bud growth by leaf contact shares characteristics of thigmomorphogenic responses in other systems, including the involvement of JA, though the JA effect is opposite. The repression of bud growth by leaf contact may represent a mechanism to time tillering to an appropriate developmental stage of the plant.
Many microbes used for the rapid discovery and development of metabolic pathways have sensitivities to final products and process reagents. Isopentenol (3-methyl-3-buten-1-ol), a biogasoline candidate, has an established heterologous gene pathway but is toxic to several microbial hosts. Reagents used in the pretreatment of plant biomass, such as ionic liquids, also inhibit growth of many host strains. We explored the use of We found We describe the successful expression of a heterologous mevalonate-based pathway in the Gram-positive industrial microorganism,
Metabolomics has emerged as a powerful approach to comprehensively interrogate cellular biochemistry. As such, we applied an untargeted liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry metabolomic strategy to elucidate metabolome changes in the anthracnose-causing hemibiotrophic sorghum pathogen, Colletotrichum sublineolum. An in vitro batch culture study model with different carbon sources, glucose, arabinose and rhamnose, were used to support fungal growth over a period of twelve days. Metabolites representing the intracellular and extracellular (secreted) metabolomes were extracted with methanol and subjected to LC-MS analyses. Chemometric modelling revealed a metabolic variation trajectory, comprising three distinct stages that metabolically describe the adaptation of the fungus to diminishing nutrients. Selected marker gene expression indicated stage one (0-3 d.p.i) as corresponding to the early logarithmic phase. Stage two can be interpreted as an intermediate transitionary stage with stage three corresponding to the stationary phase (9-12 d.p.i). Stage one was characterised by up-regulation of endo-metabolites such as ferricrocin, fatty acids and flavone-conjugates, while stage three was characterised by the secretion of phytotoxins, including colletotrichin and colletotric acid. Ultimately, results from our in vitro model reveal previously unknown insights into the dynamic aspects of metabolome reprogramming in the growth phases of Colletotrichum spp as determined by nutrients obtainable from plant cell walls.
The introgression of apomixis in major seed crops, would guarantee self-seeding of superior heterotic seeds over generations. In the grass species Paspalum simplex, apomixis is controlled by a single locus in which recombination is blocked. In the perspective of isolating the genetic determinants of apomixis, we report data on sequencing, in silico mapping and expression analysis of some of the genes contained in two cloned genomic regions of the apomixis locus of P. simplex. In silico mapping allowed us to identify a conserved synteny group homoeologous to the apomixis locus, located on a telomeric position of chromosomes 12, 8, 3 and 4 of rice, Sorghum bicolor, Setaria italica and Brachypodium distachyum, respectively, and on a more centromeric position of maize chromosome 1. Selected genes of the apomixis locus expressed sense and antisense transcripts in reproductively committed cells of sexual and apomictic ovules. Some of the genes considered here expressed apomixis-specific allelic variants which showed partial non-overlapping expression patterns with alleles shared by sexual and apomictic reproductive phenotypes. Our findings open new routes for the isolation of the genetic determinants of apomixis and, in perspective, for its introgression in crop grasses.
Decreasing freshwater supply has led to the consideration of treated wastewater as an alternative source for agricultural irrigation. However, the higher content of heavy metals restricts their use in agricultural purposes. In the current study, a set of 181 SSR markers were used to perform association mapping in a structured sorghum population consisting of 107 accessions evaluated under tap-water and heavy-metals-containing water irrigation conditions. Significant differences between optimal and stressed growing conditions were shown in all evaluated phenotypic traits. Association mapping revealed 14 significant associations between 12 SSR markers and heavy metals stress indices of phenotypic traits (R
Mitigation of deleterious effects of salinity promoted by exogenous proline can be partially explained by changes in proline enzymatic metabolism and expression of specific proline-related genes. Proline accumulation is a usual response to salinity. We studied the ability of exogenous proline to mitigate the salt harmful effects in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) leaves. Ten-day-old plants were cultivated in Hoagland's nutrient solution in either the absence or presence of salinity (NaCl at 75 mM) and sprayed with distilled water or 30 mM proline solution. Salinity deleterious effects were alleviated by exogenous proline 14 days after treatment, with a return in growth and recovery of leaf area and photosynthetic parameters. Part of the salinity response reflected an improvement in ionic homeostasis, provided by reduction in Na
The metabolome of a biological system provides a functional readout of the cellular state, thus serving as direct signatures of biochemical events that define the dynamic equilibrium of metabolism and the correlated phenotype. Hence, to elucidate biochemical processes involved in sorghum responses to fungal infection, a liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry-based untargeted metabolomic study was designed. Metabolic alterations of three sorghum cultivars responding to
Levansucrase gene (LmLEVS) was cloned from Leuconostoc mesenteroides MTCC 10508. The heterologous expression and purification of the truncated (TrLmLEVS) gene, lacking the N-terminal signal peptide, was performed in Escherichia coli. The recombinant enzyme (TrLmLEVS) was physico-kinetically characterized using sucrose as substrate. TrLmLEVS exhibited the maximum activity at pH 6 and temperature 30 °C. Thin layer chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography analyses unveiled the biosynthesis of fructooligosaccharides and levan by TrLmLEVS using sucrose as substrate. The catalytically synthesized polymer was characterized by Fourier-Transform Infrared Spectroscopy and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance analyses, confirming it as levan. TrLmLEVS was capable of catalyzing the transformation of raffinose-derived molecules, besides sucrose, into fructans. Further, TrLmLEVS was employed for the genesis of non-digestible fructans from sucrose-containing feedstocks like table sugar, jaggery, cane molasses, and sweet sorghum juice. The results suggest that Leu. mesenteroides MTCC 10508 levansucrase is a potential candidate for the production of levan-type biomolecules in plant-based food products.
The advanced biotechnology CRISPR/Cas9 as a powerful genome editing tool has displayed great potential for improving important agronomic traits such as yield and quality. It has gained momentum worldwide for gene function research of plants in recent years. As for cereals, numerous studies of CRISPR/Cas9 have been reported predominately on rice and quite a few on other cereals including maize, wheat, and barley. In contrast, there are only a couple of reports on sorghum up to date. In this chapter, the CRISPR/Cas9 system has been investigated for sorghum genome editing through biolistic bombardment. Two target genes, cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) and phytoene desaturase (PDS), have been investigated by CRISPR/Cas9 though bomboarment. Successful genome editing has been achieved within the sorghum genotype Tx430. Furthermore, sequencing PCR product of transgenic plants has confirmed that the CRISPR/Cas9 successfully edited the target gene in sorghum. Both homozygosis and heterozygosis editings of CAD gene have been confirmed in T
There are many moving parts involved in developing and taking a new commercial hybrid to market. Sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] hybrid development involves development of parental lines based on a cytoplasmic male sterile system including the pollen parent (R-line) and seed parents (A- and B-lines). New parental lines are developed by recombining existing elite parental lines to create new breeding populations or by adding specific traits of interest to existing parental lines by crossing elite lines with donor parents. Molecular markers are utilized to identify plants with particular traits of interest during parental line development. Newly developed parental lines are crossed together or with other elite parental lines to create new hybrid combinations. New hybrid combinations are evaluated in target geographies for improved yield, good agronomics, and specific traits of interest. Multi-year, multi-location evaluations are used to identify hybrid entries with improved yield, stable performance, and good agronomics. Evaluation of the parental lines involved in these new hybrids helps establish the produce ability and potential cost of goods which have direct impact on the potential commercial release of new hybrid products.
Late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins, the space fillers or molecular shields, are the hydrophilic protective proteins which play an important role during plant development and abiotic stress. The systematic survey and characterization revealed a total of 68 LEA genes, belonging to 8 families in Sorghum bicolor. The LEA-2, a typical hydrophobic family is the most abundant family. All of them are evenly distributed on all 10 chromosomes and chromosomes 1, 2, and 3 appear to be the hot spots. Majority of the S. bicolor LEA (SbLEA) genes are intron less or have fewer introns. A total of 22 paralogous events were observed and majority of them appear to be segmental duplications. Segmental duplication played an important role in SbLEA-2 family expansion. A total of 12 orthologs were observed with Arabidopsis and 13 with Oryza sativa. Majority of them are basic in nature, and targeted by chloroplast subcellular localization. Fifteen miRNAs targeted to 25 SbLEAs appear to participate in development, as well as in abiotic stress tolerance. Promoter analysis revealed the presence of abiotic stress-responsive DRE, MYB, MYC, and GT1, biotic stress-responsive W-Box, hormone-responsive ABA, ERE, and TGA, and development-responsive SKn cis-elements. This reveals that LEA proteins play a vital role during stress tolerance and developmental processes. Using microarray data, 65 SbLEA genes were analyzed in different tissues (roots, pith, rind, internode, shoot, and leaf) which show clear tissue specific expression. qRT-PCR analysis of 23 SbLEA genes revealed their abundant expression in various tissues like roots, stems and leaves. Higher expression was noticed in stems compared to roots and leaves. Majority of the SbLEA family members were up-regulated at least in one tissue under different stress conditions. The SbLEA3-2 is the regulator, which showed abundant expression under diverse stress conditions. Present study provides new insights into the formation of LEAs in S. bicolor and to understand their role in developmental processes under stress conditions, which may be a valuable source for future research.
High-affinity K+ (HKT) gene family is regulated the transport of Na+ and maintain the balance between Na+ and K+ in the process of plant growth, development and response to abiotic stress. Despite this fact, systemic and comprehensive studies on HKT in multiply plants remains unknown. A total of 29 HKT genes distributed on nine species were identified. Phylogenetic tree analysis results indicated that HKT genes were divided into five homology subfamilies. Combining structural analysis with protein contains five highly conservative motifs, HKT family has similar gene structures and special gene characteristics. Finally, the expression patterns of HKT showed two different dramatic changes in different organs and tissues under different salt stress in multiply plants. This study has many implications for research into the comparative genomics analysis of HTK gene family, which revealed regulation mechanism of HKT genes, is valuable for understanding development and response to abiotic stress in plant.
SbNAC genes (131) encoding 183 proteins were identified from the sorghum genome and characterized. The expression patterns of SbSNACs were evaluated at three sampling time points under post-flowering drought stress. NAC proteins are specific transcription factors in plants, playing vital roles in development and response to various environmental stresses. Despite the fact that Sorghum bicolor is well-known for its drought-tolerance, it suffers from grain yield loss due to pre and post-flowering drought stress. In the present study, 131 SbNAC genes encoding 183 proteins were identified from the sorghum genome. The phylogenetic trees were constructed based on the NAC domains of sorghum, and also based on sorghum with Arabidopsis and 8 known NAC domains of other plants, which classified the family into 15 and 19 subfamilies, respectively. Based on the obtained results, 13 SbNAC proteins joined the SNAC subfamily, and these proteins are expected to be involved in response to abiotic stresses. Promoter analysis revealed that all SbNAC genes comprise different stress-associated cis-elements in their promoters. UTRs analysis indicated that 101 SbNAC transcripts had upstream open reading frames, while 39 of the transcripts had internal ribosome entry sites in their 5'UTR. Moreover, 298 miRNA target sites were predicted to exist in the UTRs of SbNAC transcripts. The expression patterns of SbSNACs were evaluated in three genotypes at three sampling time points under post-flowering drought stress. Based on the results, it could be suggested that some gene members are involved in response to drought stress at the post-flowering stage since they act as positive or negative transcriptional regulators. Following further functional analyses, some of these genes might be perceived to be promising candidates for breeding programs to enhance drought tolerance in crops.
B-box (BBX) proteins play important roles in plant growth regulation and development including photomorphogenesis, photoperiodic regulation of flowering, and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. In the present study we retrieved total 131 BBX members from five Poaceae species including 36 from maize, 30 from rice, 24 from sorghum, 22 from stiff brome, and 19 from Millet. All the BBX genes were grouped into five subfamilies on the basis of their phylogenetic relationships and structural features. The expression profiles of 12 OsBBX genes in different tissues were evaluated through qRT-PCR, and we found that most rice BBX members showed high expression level in the heading stage compared to seedling and booting stages. The expression of OsBBX1, OsBBX2, OsBBX8, OsBBX19, and OsBBX24 was strongly induced by abiotic stresses such as drought, cold and salt stresses. Furthermore, the expression of OsBBX2, OsBBX7, OsBBX17, OsBBX19, and OsBBX24 genes was up-regulated under GA, SA and MeJA hormones at different time points. Similarly, the transcripts level of OsBBX1, OsBBX7, OsBBX8, OsBBX17, and OsBBX19 genes were significantly affected by heavy metals such as Fe, Ni, Cr and Cd. Change in the expression pattern of BBX members in response to abiotic, hormone and heavy metal stresses signifies their potential roles in plant growth and development and in response to multivariate stresses. The findings suggest that BBX genes could be used as potential genetic markers for the plants, particularly in functional analysis and determining their roles under multivariate stresses.
The development of lysigenous aerenchyma starts with cell expansion and degradation of pectin from the middle lamella, leading to cell wall modification, and culminating with cell separation. Here we report that nutritional starvation of sugarcane induced gene expression along sections of the first 5 cm of the root and between treatments. We selected two candidate genes: a RAV transcription factor, from the ethylene response factors superfamily, and an endopolygalacturonase (EPG), a glycosyl hydrolase related to homogalacturonan hydrolysis from the middle lamella. epg1 and rav1 transcriptional patterns suggest they are essential genes at the initial steps of pectin degradation during aerenchyma development in sugarcane. Due to the high complexity of the sugarcane genome, rav1 and epg1 were sequenced from 17 bacterial artificial chromosome clones containing hom(e)ologous genomic regions, and the sequences were compared with those of Sorghum bicolor. We used one hom(e)olog sequence from each gene for transactivation assays in tobacco. rav1 was shown to bind to the epg1 promoter, repressing β-glucuronidase activity. RAV repression upon epg1 transcription is the first reported link between ethylene regulation and pectin hydrolysis during aerenchyma formation. Our findings may help to elucidate cell wall degradation in sugarcane and therefore contribute to second-generation bioethanol production.
Plant mechanical strength contributes to lodging resistance and grain yield, making it an agronomically important trait in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). In this study, we isolated the brittle culm 1 (bc1) mutant and identified SbBC1 through map-based cloning. SbBC1, a homolog of rice OsBC1 and Arabidopsis thaliana AtCOBL4, encodes a COBRA-like protein that exhibits typical structural features of a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein. A single-nucleotide mutation in SbBC1 led to reduced mechanical strength, decreased cellulose content, and increased lignin content without obviously altering plant morphology. Transmission electron microscopy revealed reduced cell wall thickness in sclerenchyma cells of the bc1 mutant. SbBC1 is primarily expressed in developing sclerenchyma cells and vascular bundles in sorghum. RNA-seq analysis further suggested a possible mechanism by which SbBC1 mediates cellulose biosynthesis and cell wall remodeling. Our results demonstrate that SbBC1 participates in the biosynthesis of cellulose in the secondary cell wall and affects the mechanical strength of sorghum plants, providing additional genetic evidence for the roles of COBRA-like genes in cellulose biosynthesis in grasses.
Sorghum is an important crop grown worldwide for feed and fibre. Like most plants, it has the capacity to benefit from symbioses with arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi, and its diverse genotypes likely vary in their responses. Currently, the genetic basis of mycorrhiza-responsiveness is largely unknown. Here, we investigated transcriptional and physiological responses of sorghum accessions, founders of a bioenergy nested association mapping panel, for their responses to four species of AM fungi. Transcriptome comparisons across four accessions identified mycorrhiza-inducible genes; stringent filtering criteria revealed 278 genes that show mycorrhiza-inducible expression independent of genotype and 55 genes whose expression varies with genotype. The latter suggests variation in phosphate transport and defence across these accessions. The mycorrhiza growth and nutrient responses of 18 sorghum accessions varied tremendously, ranging from mycorrhiza-dependent to negatively mycorrhiza-responsive. Additionally, accessions varied in the number of AM fungi to which they showed positive responses, from one to several fungal species. Mycorrhiza growth and phosphorus responses were positively correlated, whereas expression of two mycorrhiza-inducible phosphate transporters, SbPT8 and SbPT9, correlated negatively with mycorrhizal growth responses. AM fungi improve growth and mineral nutrition of sorghum, and the substantial variation between lines provides the potential to map loci influencing mycorrhiza responses.
Acidic soils, where aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major agricultural constraint, are globally widespread and are prevalent in developing countries. In sorghum, the root citrate transporter SbMATE confers Al tolerance by protecting root apices from toxic Al
Members of the Early Salt Induced 3 (Esi3/RCI2/PMP3) gene family in plants have been shown to be induced in response to both biotic and abiotic stresses and to enhance stress tolerance in both transgenic plants and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Esi3 was first identified as a salt stress induced gene in the salt tolerant wild wheat grass, Lophopyrum elongatum, and subsequently homologous genes in many other species were found to be members of the gene family. These include Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa where they are referred to as Rare Cold Inducible 2 (RCI2), and Zea mays where they are referred to as Plasma Membrane Protein 3 (PMP3). This study characterizes the Esi3 family members in Triticum aestivum and explores the tissue specific expression patterns of the gene family members as well as their response to a variety of environmental stresses. The Esi3 gene family was found to have a total of 29 family members comprised of ten paralogous groups in the hexaploid T. aestivum. Each paralogous group contains three homeologous copies, one in each of the A, B and D genomes with the exception of Esi3-2 which is missing the B copy. The genes of the Esi3 gene family were also identified in four other monocot species, Aegilops tauschii, Hordeum vulgare, Secale cereale and Sorghum bicolor, and were confirmed or corrected for Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa and Zea mays, as well as the dicot Arabidopsis thaliana. Gene expression of the Esi3s was analyzed using tissue-specific, abiotic and biotic stress RNA-Seq 454 sequence libraries and Affymetrix microarray data for T. aestivum. Members of nearly all paralogous groups of the Esi3 genes in T. aestivum have altered gene expression in response to abiotic or biotic stress conditions. In addition, there are modest differences in gene expression among homeologous members of the gene family. This suggests that the Esi3 gene family plays an important role in the plants response to the stresses presented in this study. The Esi3-9 in T. aestivum has a unique N terminal extension placing it into Group III, a new group for the Esi3/RCI2/PMP3 gene family.
Adlay (Coix lacryma-jobi) is a tropical grass that has long been used in traditional Chinese medicine and is known for its nutritional benefits. Recent studies have shown that vitamin E compounds in adlay protect against chronic diseases such as cancer and heart disease. However, the molecular basis of adlay's health benefits remains unknown. Here, we generated adlay gene sets by de novo transcriptome assembly using long-read isoform sequencing (Iso-Seq) and short-read RNA-Sequencing (RNA-Seq). The gene sets obtained from Iso-seq and RNA-seq contained 31,177 genes and 57,901 genes, respectively. We confirmed the validity of the assembled gene sets by experimentally analyzing the levels of prolamin and vitamin E biosynthesis-associated proteins in adlay plant tissues and seeds. We compared the screened adlay genes with known gene families from closely related plant species, such as rice, sorghum and maize. We also identified tissue-specific genes from the adlay leaf, root, and young and mature seed, and experimentally validated the differential expression of 12 randomly-selected genes. Our study of the adlay transcriptome will provide a valuable resource for genetic studies that can enhance adlay breeding programs in the future.
Drought alone or in combination with other stresses forms the major crop production constraint worldwide. Sorghum, one of the most important cereal crops is affected by drought alone or in combination with co-occurring stresses; notwithstanding, sorghum has evolved adaptive responses to combined stresses. Furthermore, an impressive number of sorghum genes have been investigated for drought tolerance. However, the molecular mechanism underling drought response remains poorly understood. We employed a systems biology approach to elucidate regulatory and broad functional features of these genes. Their interaction network would provide insight into understanding the molecular mechanisms of drought tolerance and underpinning signal pathways. Functional analysis was undertaken to determine significantly enriched genesets for pathways involved in drought tolerance. Analysis of distinct pathway cross-talk network was performed and drought-specific subnetwork was extracted. Investigation of various data sources such as gene expression, regulatory pathways, sorghumCyc, sorghum protein-protein interaction (PPI) and Gene Ontology (GO) revealed 14 major drought stress related hub genes (DSRhub genes). Significantly enriched genesets have shown association with various biological processes underlying drought-related responses. Key metabolic pathways were significantly enriched in the drought-related genes. Systematic analysis of pathways cross-talk and gene interaction network revealed major cross-talk pathway modules associated with drought tolerance. Further investigation of the major DSRhub genes revealed distinct regulatory genes such as ZEP, NCED, AAO, and MCSU and CYP707A1. These were involved in the regulation of ABA biosynthesis and signal transduction. Other protein families, namely, aldehyde and alcohol dehydrogenases, mitogene activated protein kinases (MAPKs), and Ribulose-1,5-biphosphate carboxylase (RuBisCO) were shown to be involved in the drought-related responses. This shows a diversity of complex functional features in sorghum to respond to various abiotic stresses. Finally, we constructed a drought-specific subnetwork, characterized by unique candidate genes that were associated with DSRhub genes. According to our knowledge, this is the first in sorghum drought investigation that introduces pathway and network-based candidate gene approach for analysis of drought tolerance. We provide novel information about pathways cross-talk and signaling networks used in further systems level analysis for understanding the molecular mechanism behind drought tolerance and can, therefore, be adapted to other model and non-model crops.
Cysteine (Cys) is the first identified molecule in plant metabolism which includes both sulfur and nitrogen. It can be synthesized in three cellular compartments, containing chloroplast, cytoplasm and mitochondrion. The final step of cysteine biosynthesis is catalyzed by the O-acetylserine(thiol)lyase enzyme (OASTL, E.C. 4.2.99). In the present study, seven members of the OASTL gene family in the sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) genome were identified at a genome-wide scale and comparative bioinformatics analyses were performed between sorghum and Arabidopsis OASTLs. In all OASTL proteins, a pyridoxal-phosphate dependent domain structure (PALP, PF00291) was identified. The gene ontology annotations also revealed that all sorghum OASTL genes have KOG1252 (Cystathionine beta-synthase and related enzyme) and K01738 (cysteine synthase A) activities. In promotor sequences of OASTL genes, diverse cis-acting elements were found, including hormone and light responsiveness, abiotic stress responsiveness, and tissue-specific ones (meristem and endosperm). Sorghum OASTL genes demonstrated medium or high level expressions in anatomical parts and developmental stages based on the digital expression data. Expression of OASTL genes were also analyzed under cadmium (Cd) stress in sorghum by Real Time-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). The results exclusively showed that OASTL A1-2 gene was 1.12 fold up-regulated in roots, whereas cysteine synthase 26 was 2.25 fold down-regulated in leaves. The predicted 3D structure of OASTLs indicated some structural diversities as well as variations in the secondary structures.
The flag leaf of rice (Oryza sativa L.) is an important determinant of plant type characteristics and grain yield. Identification of flag leaf mutants of rice is crucial to elucidate the molecular mechanism of flag-leaf development, and for exploitation of rice germplasm resources. In this study, we describe a mutant designated short and narrow flag leaf 1 (snfl1). Histological analysis showed that the length of epidermal cells and number of longitudinal veins were decreased in the flag leaf of the snfl1 mutant. Map-based cloning indicated that a member of the GATA family of transcription factors is a candidate gene for SNFL1. A single-nucleotide transition at the last base in the single intron of snfl1 led to variation in alternative splicing and early termination of translation. Complemented transgenic plants harbouring the candidate SNFL1 gene rescued the snfl1 mutant. Analysis of RT-PCR and the SNFL1 promoter by means of a GUS fusion expression assay showed that abundance of SNFL1 transcripts was higher in the culm, leaf sheath, and root. Expression of the SNFL1-GFP fusion protein in rice protoplasts showed that SNFL1 was localized in nucleus. We conclude that SNFL1 is an important regulator of leaf development, the identification of which might have important implications for future research on GATA transcription factors.
Poaceae (grasses) is an agriculturally important and widely distributed family of plants with extraordinary phenotypic diversity, much of which was generated under recent lineage-specific evolution. Yet, little is known about the genes and functional modules involved in the lineage-specific divergence of grasses. Here, I address this question on a genome-wide scale by applying a novel branch-based statistic of lineage-specific expression divergence, LED, to RNA-seq data from nine tissues of the wild grass Brachypodium distachyon and its domesticated relatives Oryza sativa japonica (rice) and Sorghum bicolor (sorghum). I find that LED is generally smallest in B. distachyon and largest in O. sativa japonica, which underwent domestication earlier than S. bicolor, supporting the hypothesis that domestication may increase the rate of lineage-specific expression divergence in grasses. Moreover, in all three species, LED is positively correlated with protein-coding sequence divergence and tissue specificity, and negatively correlated with network connectivity. Further analysis reveals that genes with large LED are often primarily expressed in anther, implicating lineage-specific expression divergence in the evolution of male reproductive phenotypes. Gene ontology enrichment analysis also identifies an overrepresentation of terms related to male reproduction in the two domesticated grasses, as well as to those involved in host-pathogen defense in all three species. Last, examinations of genes with the largest LED reveal that their lineage-specific expression divergence may have contributed to antimicrobial functions in B. distachyon, to enhanced adaptation and yield during domestication in O. sativa japonica, and to defense against a widespread and devastating fungal pathogen in S. bicolor. Together, these findings suggest that lineage-specific expression divergence in grasses may increase under domestication and preferentially target rapidly evolving genes involved in male reproduction, host-pathogen defense, and the origin of domesticated phenotypes.
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a primary limiting factor for crop production in acid soils. Callose deposition, an early indicator and likely a contributor to Al toxicity, is induced rapidly in plant roots under Al stress. SbGlu1, encoding a β-1,3-glucanase for callose degradation, showed important roles in sorghum Al resistance, yet its regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. The STOP1 transcription factors mediate Al signal transduction in various plants. Here, we identified their homolog in sweet sorghum, SbSTOP1, transcriptionally activated the expression of SbGlu1. Moreover, the DNA sequence recognized by SbSTOP1 on the promoter of SbGlu1 lacked the reported cis-acting element. Complementation lines of Atstop1 with SbSTOP1 revealed enhanced transcription levels of SbGlu1 homologous gene and reduced callose accumulation in Arabidopsis. These results indicate, for the first time, that SbSTOP1 is involved in the modulation of callose deposition under Al stress via transcriptional regulation of a β-1,3-glucanase gene.
Most reliable transformation protocols for cereal crops, including sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench), rely on the use of immature embryo explants to generate embryogenic callus cells that are then transformed using Agrobacterium- or particle-bombardment-mediated DNA delivery. Subsequent to DNA transfer, most protocols rely on selectable markers for the recovery of stably transformed callus that is then regenerated to produce T
Sugarcane aphid (Melanaphis sacchari) outbreaks in sorghum that were first reported in 2013 are now the most significant threat to this crop in all major sorghum production areas in the U.S. The outcomes of interactions between sugarcane aphid and sorghum and thus the severity of the outbreaks depend on sorghum genotype and potentially also on the phenology of sorghum. Mechanisms underlying these interactions are not known, however. Thus, the goal of this research was to characterize transcriptional changes in a commercially available resistant and a susceptible genotype of sorghum at 2- and 6-wk post-emergence exposed to M. sacchari herbivory. The effects of sorghum age and genotype on the daily change in aphid densities were also evaluated in separate greenhouse experiments. A higher number of diffentially expressed genes (DEGs) was recovered from the 2-wk plants exposed to aphid herbivory compared to the 6-wk plants across genotypes. Further, gene ontology and pathway analysis indicated a suite of transcriptional changes in the resistant genotype that were weak or absent in the susceptible sorghum. Specifically, the aphid-resistant genotype exposed to M. sacchari up-regulated several genes involved in defense, which was particularly evident in the 2-wk plants that showed the most robust transcriptional responses. These transcriptional changes in the younger resistant sorghum were characterized by induction of hormone-signaling pathways, pathways coding for secondary metabolites, glutathion metabolism, and plant-pathogen interaction. Furthermore, the 2-wk resistant plants appeared to compensate for the effects of oxidative stress induced by sugarcane aphid herbivory with elevated expression of genes involved in detoxification. These transcriptional responses were reflected in the aphid population growth, which was significantly faster in the susceptible and older sorghum than in the resistant and younger plants. This experiment provided the first insights into molecular mechanisms underlying lower population growth of M. sacchari on the resistant sorghum genotype. Further, it appears that the younger resistant sorghum was able to mount a robust defense response following aphid herbivory, which was much weaker in the older sorghum. Several pathways and specific genes provide specific clues into the mechanisms underlying host plant resistance to this invasive insect.
SUN (Sad1/UNC-84) domain-containing proteins are highly conserved throughout evolution. They are localized to the inner membrane of the nuclear envelope and are involved in nuclear migration and nucleoskeleton formation. In the present study, a genome-wide investigation was performed in three dicotyledonous (Arabidopsis thaliana, Glycine max and Medicago truncatula) and three monocotyledonous (Oryza sativa, Zea mays and Sorghum bicolor) plants. A total of 56 SUN proteins encoded by 30 genes were identified. Based on their length, transmembrane topology, conserved domains and phylogenetic relationships, they could be divided into two previously defined groups- Cter-SUN and mid-SUN proteins. Expression of these genes was analyzed in different developmental stages, tissues and various unfavorable conditions such as salinity, drought, and hormonal treatment. Analyses indicated that the expression of SUN1/2 transcripts are ubiquitous; that of SUN3/4 are development/tissue regulated, and SUN5 are inflorescence stage-specific. This study provides an initial framework for the characterization and functional validation of the plant SUN family.
In Arabidopsis, a long day flowering plant, CONSTANS (CO) acts as a transcriptional activator of flowering under long day (LD) condition. In rice, a short day flowering plant, Hd1, the ortholog of CO, plays dual functions in respond to day-length, activates flowering in short days and represses flowering in long days. In addition, alleles of Hd1 account for ~ 44% of the variation in flowering time observed in cultivated rice and sorghum. How does it work in bamboo? The function of CO in bamboo is similar to that in Arabidopsis? Two CO homologous genes, PvCO1 and PvCO2, in Phyllostachys violascens were identified. Alignment analysis showed that the two PvCOLs had the highest sequence similarity to rice Hd1. Both PvCO1 and PvCO2 expressed in specific tissues, mainly in leaf. The PvCO1 gene had low expression before flowering, high expression during the flowering stage, and then declined to low expression again after flowering. In contrast, expression of PvCO2 was low during the flowering stage, but rapidly increased to a high level after flowering. The mRNA levels of both PvCOs exhibited a diurnal rhythm. Both PvCO1 and PvCO2 proteins were localized in nucleus of cells. PvCO1 could interact with PvGF14c protein which belonged to 14-3-3 gene family through B-box domain. Overexpression of PvCO1 in Arabidopsis significantly caused late flowering by reducing the expression of AtFT, whereas, transgenic plants overexpressing PvCO2 showed a similar flowering time with WT under LD conditions. Taken together, these results suggested that PvCO1 was involved in the flowering regulation, and PvCO2 may either not have a role in regulating flowering or act redundantly with other flowering regulators in Arabidopsis. Our data also indicated regulatory divergence between PvCOLs in Ph. violascens and CO in Arabidopsis as well as Hd1 in Oryza sativa. Our results will provide useful information for elucidating the regulatory mechanism of COLs involved in the flowering. Unlike to the CO gene in Arabidopsis, PvCO1 was a negative regulator of flowering in transgenic Arabidopsis under LD condition. It was likely that long period of vegetative growth of this bamboo species was related with the regulation of PvCO1.
Biotic and abiotic stresses negatively affect fitness, biomass production, and crop yield in plants. The dehydration-responsive element-binding proteins (
Fungal pathogens are a major constraint to global crop production; hence, plant genes encoding pathogen resistance are important tools for combating disease. A few resistance genes identified to date provide partial, durable resistance to multiple pathogens and the wheat (
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) is a drought tolerant crop, which is being developed as a bioenergy feedstock. The monolignol biosynthesis pathway is a major focus for altering the abundance and composition of lignin. Caffeoyl coenzyme-A O-methyltransferase (CCoAOMT) is an S-adenosyl methionine (SAM)-dependent O-methyltransferase that methylates caffeoyl-CoA to generate feruloyl-CoA, an intermediate required for the biosynthesis of both G- and S-lignin. SbCCoAOMT was overexpressed to assess the impact of increasing the amount of this enzyme on biomass composition. SbCCoAOMT overexpression increased both soluble and cell wall-bound (esterified) ferulic and sinapic acids, however lignin concentration and its composition (S/G ratio) remained unaffected. This increased deposition of hydroxycinnamic acids in these lines led to an increase in total energy content of the stover. In stalk and leaf midribs, the increased histochemical staining and autofluorescence in the cell walls of the SbCCoAOMT overexpression lines also indicate increased phenolic deposition within cell walls, which is consistent with the chemical analyses of soluble and wall-bound hydroxycinnamic acids. The growth and development of overexpression lines were similar to wild-type plants. Likewise, RNA-seq and metabolite profiling showed that global gene expression and metabolite levels in overexpression lines were also relatively similar to wild-type plants. Our results demonstrate that SbCCoAOMT overexpression significantly altered cell wall composition through increases in cell wall associated hydroxycinnamic acids without altering lignin concentration or affecting plant growth and development.
Sea-island cotton (Gossypium barbadense) has drawn great attention in the textile industry for its comprehensive resistance and superior fiber properties. However, the mechanisms involved in fiber growth and development are unclear. As TCP transcription factors play important roles in plant growth and development, this study investigated the TCP family genes in G. barbadense (GbTCP). We identified 75 GbTCP genes, of which 68 had no introns. Phylogenetic analyses categorized the GbTCP transcription factors into 11 groups. Genomic analyses showed that 66 genes are located on 21 chromosomes. Phylogenetic analyses of G. arboreum, G. raimondii, G. hirsutum, G. barbadense, Theobroma cacao, Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor, and Zea mays, Picea abies, Sphagnum fallax and Physcomitrella patens, categorized 373 TCP genes into two classes (Classes I and II). By studying the structures of TCP genes in sea-island cotton, we identified genes from the same evolutionary branches that showed similar motif patterns. qRT-PCR results suggested that the GbTCPs had different expression patterns in fibers at various developmental stages of cotton, with several showing specific expression patterns during development. This report helps lay the foundation for future investigations of TCP functions and molecular mechanisms in sea-island cotton fiber development.
The morphological and functional diversity of plant form is governed by dynamic gene regulatory networks. In cereal crops, grain and/or pollen-bearing inflorescences exhibit vast architectural diversity and developmental complexity, yet the underlying genetic framework is only partly known.
Sorghum bicolor is the fifth most commonly grown cereal worldwide and is remarkable for its drought and abiotic stress tolerance. For these reasons and the large size of biomass varieties, it has been proposed as a bioenergy crop. However, little is known about the genes underlying sorghum's abiotic stress tolerance and biomass yield. To uncover the genetic basis of drought tolerance in sorghum at a genome-wide level, we undertook a high-density phenomics genome wide association study (GWAS) in which 648 diverse sorghum lines were phenotyped at two locations in California once per week by drone over the course of a growing season. Biomass, height, and leaf area were measured by drone for individual field plots, subjected to two drought treatments and a well-watered control. The resulting dataset of ~ 171,000 phenotypic data-points was analyzed along with 183,989 genotype by sequence markers to reveal 213 high-quality, replicated, and conserved GWAS associations. The genomic intervals defined by the associations include many strong candidate genes, including those encoding heat shock proteins, antifreeze proteins, and other domains recognized as important to plant stress responses. The markers identified by our study can be used for marker assisted selection for drought tolerance and biomass. In addition, our results are a significant step toward identifying specific sorghum genes controlling drought tolerance and biomass yield.
Meiotic recombination is an evolutionary force that generates new genetic diversity upon which selection can act. Whereas multiple studies have assessed genome-wide patterns of recombination and specific cases of intragenic recombination, few studies have assessed intragenic recombination genome-wide in higher eukaryotes. We identified recombination events within or near genes in a population of maize recombinant inbred lines (RILs) using RNA-sequencing data. Our results are consistent with case studies that have shown that intragenic crossovers cluster at the 5' ends of some genes. Further, we identified cases of intragenic crossovers that generate transgressive transcript accumulation patterns, that is, recombinant alleles displayed higher or lower levels of expression than did nonrecombinant alleles in any of ∼100 RILs, implicating intragenic recombination in the generation of new variants upon which selection can act. Thousands of apparent gene conversion events were identified, allowing us to estimate the genome-wide rate of gene conversion at SNP sites (4.9 × 10-5). The density of syntenic genes (i.e., those conserved at the same genomic locations since the divergence of maize and sorghum) exhibits a substantial correlation with crossover frequency, whereas the density of nonsyntenic genes (i.e., those which have transposed or been lost subsequent to the divergence of maize and sorghum) shows little correlation, suggesting that crossovers occur at higher rates in syntenic genes than in nonsyntenic genes. Increased rates of crossovers in syntenic genes could be either a consequence of the evolutionary conservation of synteny or a biological process that helps to maintain synteny.
The Streptomyces spp. used in this work were previously isolated as diazotrophic endophytes from sorghum stems. Here, we characterized the Streptomyces spp. for their colonization ability, plant growth promotion and protection against fungal disease in three cereals. In vitro analysis by dual culture study showed inhibitory effect on the rice pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae B157 along with inhibition of the ubiquitous phytopathogen Rhizoctonia solani by the Streptomyces spp. used in this study. The active compounds responsible for phytopathogen inhibition were extracted with ethyl acetate and tested positive against the fungal pathogens. GC-MS based identification of the active compounds responsible for fungal pathogen inhibition showed them to be 2-(chloromethyl)-2-cyclopropyloxirane, 2, 4- ditert-butylphenol and 1-ethylthio-3-methyl-1, 3-butadiene in extracts of culture supernatants from the three different strains respectively. EGFP tagged Streptomyces strains showed profuse colonization in roots as well as aerial parts of cereal plants. Direct inhibitory action against M. oryzae B157 and R. solani correlated with the observation that upon fungal pathogen challenge, the bacterized rice, sorghum and wheat plants showed significantly good plant growth, particularly in aerial parts as compared to unbacterized controls. In addition, benefit was seen in inoculated healthy plants in terms of increase in wet weight of roots and shoots as compared to the uninoculated controls. The mechanism of biocontrol also involved induction of plant defense response as evidenced by the upregulation of PR10a, NPR1, PAL and LOX2 in Streptomyces colonized plants.
The ecology of fungi lags behind that of plants and animals because most fungi are microscopic and hidden in their substrates. Here, we address the basic ecological process of fungal succession in nature using the microscopic, arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) that form essential mutualisms with 70-90% of plants. We find a signal for temporal change in AMF community similarity that is 40-fold stronger than seen in the most recent studies, likely due to weekly samplings of roots, rhizosphere and soil throughout the 17 weeks from seedling to fruit maturity and the use of the fungal DNA barcode to recognize species in a simple, agricultural environment. We demonstrate the patterns of nestedness and turnover and the microbial equivalents of the processes of immigration and extinction, that is, appearance and disappearance. We also provide the first evidence that AMF species co-exist rather than simply co-occur by demonstrating negative, density-dependent population growth for multiple species. Our study shows the advantages of using fungi to test basic ecological hypotheses (e.g., nestedness v. turnover, immigration v. extinction, and coexistence theory) over periods as short as one season.
RNA-seq is a vital method for understanding gene structure and expression patterns. Typical RNA-seq analysis protocols use sequencing reads of length 50 to 150 nucleotides for alignment to the reference genome and assembly of transcripts. The resultant transcripts are quantified and used for differential expression and visualization. Existing tools and protocols for RNA-seq are vast and diverse; given their differences in performance, it is critical to select an analysis protocol that is scalable, accurate, and easy to use. Tuxedo, a popular alignment-based protocol for RNA-seq analysis, has been updated with HISAT2, StringTie, StringTie-merge, and Ballgown, and the updated protocol outperforms its predecessor. Similarly, new pseudo-alignment-based protocols like Kallisto and Sleuth reduce runtime and improve performance. However, these tools are challenging for researchers lacking command-line experience. Here, we describe two new RNA-seq analysis protocols, in which all tools are deployed on CyVerse Cyberinfrastructure with user-friendly graphical user interfaces, and validate their performance using plant RNA-seq data. © 2018 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
Pith parenchyma cells store water in various plant organs. These cells are especially important for producing sugar and ethanol from the sugar juice of grass stems. In many plants, the death of pith parenchyma cells reduces their stem water content. Previous studies proposed that a hypothetical
Zearalenone (ZEA) is one of mycotoxins which are from corn, sorghum and wheat. As an estrogenic compound, ZEA mainly affects animal growth and reproduction with causing abnormal reproduction capability. Previous studies have shown that ZEA poses adverse effects on follicular development, but the mechanism of genetic toxicity of ZEA is not understood. The purpose of this study was to explore the effects of ZEA exposure on granulosa cells which play vital roles during follicular development. Mouse granulosa cells were exposed to 10 μM or 30 μM ZEA for 72 h in vitro, and the differences in gene expression patterns between control and ZEA exposures were analyzed by RNA-seq. The data demonstrated that 30 μM ZEA had a significant effect on the gene expression, especially ZEA exposure increased the expression of many genes related to different kinds of cancers and cancer related pathways like Hippo signaling pathway and the related genes, such as Ccnd1, Smad3, Tead3, Yap1 and Wwtr1. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry confirmed the increase in the protein levels of YAP1, WWTR1 and CCND1 in 30 μM ZEA exposure group. Collectively, this investigation indicated that ZEA exposure promoted the expression of tumorigenesis genes in mouse granulosa cells to.
Caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT), the lignin biosynthesis gene modified in many brown-midrib high-digestibility mutants of maize and sorghum, was targeted for downregulation in the small grain temperate cereal, barley (Hordeum vulgare), to improve straw properties. Phylogenetic and expression analyses identified the barley COMT orthologue(s) expressed in stems, defining a larger gene family than in brachypodium or rice with three COMT genes expressed in lignifying tissues. RNAi significantly reduced stem COMT protein and enzyme activity, and modestly reduced stem lignin content while dramatically changing lignin structure. Lignin syringyl-to-guaiacyl ratio was reduced by ~50%, the 5-hydroxyguaiacyl (5-OH-G) unit incorporated into lignin at 10--15-fold higher levels than normal, and the amount of p-coumaric acid ester-linked to cell walls was reduced by ~50%. No brown-midrib phenotype was observed in any RNAi line despite significant COMT suppression and altered lignin. The novel COMT gene family structure in barley highlights the dynamic nature of grass genomes. Redundancy in barley COMTs may explain the absence of brown-midrib mutants in barley and wheat. The barley COMT RNAi lines nevertheless have the potential to be exploited for bioenergy applications and as animal feed.
The study investigated the effect of extruded sorghum flour (ESF) in a high fat diet (HFD) on biometric measurements and hepatic lipogenesis. Male Wistar rats were fed a normal diet (AIN-93M), HFD, HFD plus ESF replacing 50% cellulose and 100% corn starch (HFDS50), or HFD plus ESF replacing 100% cellulose and 100% corn starch (HFDS100) for eight weeks. ESF reduced the body mass index and liver weight of obese rats. Additionally, ESF reduced hepatic lipogenesis by increasing adiponectin 2 receptor gene expression and gene and protein expressions of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα), while reducing the gene expression of sterol regulatory element-binding transcription factor 1. Molecular docking analysis revealed the affinity of ESF compounds (luteolinidin, apigeninidin, 5-methoxy-luteolinidin, and 7-methoxy-apigeninidin) with the PPAR-α receptor. Histological analysis confirmed the decreased grade of hepatic steatosis in obese rats. These data indicate the potential of ESF to reduce metabolic risk of hepatic steatosis associated with lipogenesis and obesity.
The diacylglycerol acyltransferases (DGAT) (diacylglycerol:acyl-CoA acyltransferase, EC 2.3.1.20) are a key group of enzymes that catalyse the final and usually the most important rate-limiting step of triacylglycerol biosynthesis in plants and other organisms. Genes encoding four distinct functional families of DGAT enzymes have been characterised in the genome of the African oil palm, Elaeis guineensis. The contrasting features of the various isoforms within the four families of DGAT genes, namely DGAT1, DGAT2, DGAT3 and WS/DGAT are presented both in the oil palm itself and, for comparative purposes, in 12 other oil crop or model/related plants, namely Arabidopsis thaliana, Brachypodium distachyon, Brassica napus, Elaeis oleifera, Glycine max, Gossypium hirsutum, Helianthus annuus, Musa acuminata, Oryza sativa, Phoenix dactylifera, Sorghum bicolor, and Zea mays. The oil palm genome contains respectively three, two, two and two distinctly expressed functional copies of the DGAT1, DGAT2, DGAT3 and WS/DGAT genes. Phylogenetic analyses of the four DGAT families showed that the E. guineensis genes tend to cluster with sequences from P. dactylifera and M. acuminata rather than with other members of the Commelinid monocots group, such as the Poales which include the major cereal crops such as rice and maize. Comparison of the predicted DGAT protein sequences with other animal and plant DGATs was consistent with the E. guineensis DGAT1 being ER located with its active site facing the lumen while DGAT2, although also ER located, had a predicted cytosol-facing active site. In contrast, DGAT3 and some (but not all) WS/DGAT in E. guineensis are predicted to be soluble, cytosolic enzymes. Evaluation of E. guineensis DGAT gene expression in different tissues and developmental stages suggests that the four DGAT groups have distinctive physiological roles and are particularly prominent in developmental processes relating to reproduction, such as flowering, and in fruit/seed formation especially in the mesocarp and endosperm tissues.
The cellular uptake of dsRNA after dietary exposure is critical for RNAi efficiency; however, the mechanism of its uptake in many insects remains to be understood. In this study, we evaluated the roles of the endocytic pathway genes Clathrin heavy chain (Chc), Clathrin adaptor protein AP50, ADP ribosylation factor-like 1 (Arf72A), Vacuolar H+ ATPase 16 kDa subunit (Vha16), and small GTPase Rab7 and putative sid-1-like genes (silA and silC) in RNAi response in western corn rootworm (WCR) using a two-stage dsRNA exposure bioassay. Silencing of Chc, Vha16, and AP50 led to a significant decrease in the effects of laccase2 dsRNA reporter, indicating that these genes are involved in RNAi response. However, the knockdown of either Arf72A or Rab7 did not suppress the response to laccase2 dsRNA. The silencing of the silC gene did not lead to a significant reduction in mortality or increase in the expression of V-ATPase A reporter. While the silencing of the silA gene significantly decreased insect mortality, significant changes in V-ATPase A expression were not detected. These results suggest that clathrin-dependent endocytosis is a biological mechanism that plays an important role during RNAi response in WCR adults. The fact that no definitive support for the roles of silA or silC in RNAi response was obtained support the idea that RNAi response varies greatly in different insect species, demanding additional studies focused on elucidating their involvement in this mechanism.
Sweet sorghum accumulates large amounts of soluble sugar in its stem. However, a system-based understanding of this carbohydrate allocation process is lacking. Here, we compared the dynamic transcriptome and metabolome between the conversion line R9188 and its two parents, sweet sorghum RIO and grain sorghum BTx406 that have contrasting sugar-accumulating phenotypes. We identified two features of sucrose metabolism, stable concentrations of sugar phosphates in RIO and opposite trend of trehalose-6-phosphate (T6P) between RIO vs R9188/BTx406. Integration of transcriptome and metabolome revealed R9188 is partially active in starch metabolism together with medium sucrose level, whereas sweet sorghum had the highest sucrose concentration and remained highly active in sucrose, starch, and cell wall metabolism post-anthesis. Similar expression pattern of genes involved in sucrose degradation decreased the pool of sugar phosphates for precursors of starch and cell wall synthesis in R9188 and BTx406. Differential T6P signal between RIO vs R9188/BTx406 is associated with introgression of T6P regulators from BTx406 into R9188, including C-group bZIP and trehalose 6-phosphate phosphatase (TPP). The inverted T6P signalling in R9188 appears to down-regulate sucrose and starch metabolism partly through transcriptome reprogramming, whereas introgressed metabolic genes could be related to reduced cell wall metabolism. Our results show that coordinated primary metabolic pathways lead to high sucrose demand and accumulation in sweet sorghum, providing us with targets for genetic improvements of carbohydrate allocation in bioenergy crops.
Since the proposal of Brachypodium distachyon as a model for the grasses, over 500 Bdi-miRNAs have been annotated in miRBase making Brachypodium second in number only to rice. Other monocots, such as switchgrass, are completely absent from the miRBase database. While a significant number of miRNAs have been identified which are highly conserved across plants, little research has been done with respect to the conservation of miRNA targets. Plant responses to abiotic stresses are regulated by diverse pathways many of which involve miRNAs; however, it can be difficult to identify miRNA guided gene regulation when the miRNA is not the primary regulator of the target mRNA. To investigate miRNA target conservation and stress response involvement, a set of PARE (Parallel Analysis of RNA Ends) libraries totaling over two billion reads was constructed and sequenced from Brachypodium, switchgrass, and sorghum representing the first report of RNA degradome data from the latter two species. Analysis of this data provided not only PARE evidence for miRNA guided cleavage of over 7000 predicted target mRNAs in Brachypodium, but also evidence for miRNA guided cleavage of over 1000 homologous transcripts in sorghum and switchgrass. A pipeline was constructed to compare RNA-seq and PARE data made from Brachypodium plants exposed to various abiotic stress conditions. This resulted in the identification of 44 miRNA targets which exhibit stress regulated cleavage. Time course experiments were performed to reveal the relationship between miR393ab, miR169a, miR394ab, and their respective targets throughout the first 36 h of the cold stress response in Brachypodium. Knowledge gained from this study provides considerable insight into the RNA degradomes and the breadth of miRNA target conservation among these three species. Additionally, associations of a number of miRNAs and target mRNAs with the stress responses have been revealed which could aid in the development of stress tolerant transgenic crops.
Sorghum is the fifth most cultivated and consumed grain in the world. However, this grain is frequently contaminated with toxins from fungi. The present study evaluated the effects of environmental factors on tenuazonic acid (TeA) production by Epicoccum sorghinum in the field and in controlled laboratory conditions. In this study, 50 sorghum grain samples were collected from summer and autumn growing seasons and analyzed for TeA contamination using LC-MS/MS. To further understand the ecophysiology of this fungus, an isolated strain of E. sorghinum from the field was investigated for its development and TeA production under controlled environmental conditions in the laboratory. In the ecophysiological investigation, the effects of water activity (0.90, 0.95, 0.99) and temperature (18, 22, 26 and 30 °C) were evaluated on the radial growth, enzymatic production and expression of TAS1, which is the gene involved in TeA production. Results showed that in the field, the summer season presented the highest TeA average level in the grains (587.8 μg/kg) compared to level found in the autumn (440.5 μg/kg). The ecophysiological investigation confirmed that E. sorghinum produces more actively TeA under environmental conditions simulating the summer season. Optimum growth, maximum TAS1 gene expression, and higher extracellular enzymatic production were observed at 26 °C with a water activity of 0.99. Pearson correlation analyses showed that the production of TeA highly correlates with fungal growth. The present study demonstrates that abiotic factors in a combined approach of field and laboratory conditions will assist in predicting the driving environmental factors that could affect growth of E. sorghinum and TeA production in sorghum grains.
The aim of this study was to construct a cost-effective method for repeated bioethanol production using membrane (ultrafiltration permeation and nanofiltration concentration)-concentrated sweet sorghum juice by using flocculent Saccharomyces cerevisiae F118 strain. With low initial dry cell concentrations at around 0.28-0.35 g L
The last decade has seen significant strides in Agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation technology. This has not only expanded the number of crop species that can be transformed by Agrobacterium, but has also made it possible to routinely transform several recalcitrant crop species including cereals (e.g., maize, sorghum, and wheat). However, the technology is limited by the random nature of DNA insertions, genotype dependency, low frequency of quality events, and variation in gene expression arising from genomic insertion sites. A majority of these deficiencies have now been addressed by improving the frequency of quality events, developing genotype-independent transformation capability in maize, developing an Agrobacterium-based site-specific integration technology for precise gene targeting, and adopting Agrobacterium-delivered CRISPR-Cas genes for gene editing. These improved transformation technologies are discussed in detail in this chapter.
The CONSTANS-LIKE (COL) gene has an important role both in regulation flowering through photoperiodic control and response to abiotic stress. In the present study, we performed a genome-wide analysis of maize COL gene family and identified 19 non-redundant ZmCOL genes, which were unequally distributed on ten maize chromosomes. Analysis of compound phylogenetic tree (maize, sorghum, rice and Arabidopsis) showed high bootstrap, as well as conserved domain and semblable gene structures among members within the same clade, revealing that COL genes in same clade were from the common ancestral and prior to the divergence of monocots and dicots lineages. Calculation of Ka/Ks ratio demonstrated that most duplicated ZmCOLs experienced purifying selection, which suggested limited functional divergence after duplication events. Comparing interspecies gene collinearity between three major grasses species, extensive microsynteny was detected among maize, sorghum and rice COL-containing segments. Additionally, several light-responsive and one ABA-responsive cis-elements could be detected for ZmCOL genes in group A. Therefore, qRT-PCR was performed to explore the expression patterns of ZmCOL genes in group A under light/dark conditions and ABA treatment. Our results laid the foundation for functional characterization of ZmCOL proteins and uncovering the biological roles of COL genes in response to stress in future.
Two experiments were carried out to evaluate the effects of corn and sorghum with different processing methods on the expression of genes involved in volatile fatty acids transport and pH regulation, and ruminal keratinization in rumen epithelium of finishing bulls. For Exp. 1, five rumen cannulated Nellore bulls were used in a 5x5 Latin square arrangement, with 14 d for adaptation and 9 d for sample collection. Treatments were: dry ground corn, dry ground sorghum, reconstituted corn, reconstituted sorghum, and control (forage-based diet). Samples of rumen epithelium from ventral sac were excised, rinsed, snap-frozen and stored at -80°C until total RNA isolation and quantitative real-time PCR analysis. In the Exp. 2, 24 Nellore bulls were assigned to a completely randomized design lasting 168 d. Experimental treatments were similar to those at Exp. 1, but without the control treatment. After the experimental period, bulls were slaughtered and rumen epithelium samples were rapidly excised for further histological analysis. Rumen epithelial tissue from animals fed reconstituted corn had lower expression of downregulated-in-adenoma (P = 0.03) and Na+/H+ exchanger 2 (trend; P = 0.09). The expression of Na+/ H+ exchanger 1 (P = 0.10) and putative anion transporter (P = 0.06) tended to be lower in rumen epithelium of bulls fed reconstituted grains. Ruminal concentration of valerate was greater for animals fed reconstituted grain (P = 0.01). Likewise, animals fed reconstituted corn tended to have greater butyrate ruminal concentration (P = 0.08). Keratinized layer thickness did not differ among treatments (P > 0.10). Therefore, reconstituted grains (especially corn) decrease the mRNA expression of genes involved in volatile fatty acids transport and pH control in the rumen epithelium.
The complexity of polyploid Saccharum genomes hindered progress of genome research and crop improvement in sugarcane. To understand their genome structure, transcriptomes of 59 F
D1-cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) rice is a sporophytic cytoplasmic male-sterile rice developed from Dongxiang wild rice that exhibits a no-pollen-grain phenotype. A mitochondrial chimeric gene (orf182) was detected by mitochondrial genome sequencing and a comparative analysis. Orf182 is composed of three recombinant fragments, the largest of which is homologous to Sorghum bicolor mitochondrial sequences. In addition, orf182 was found only in wild rice species collected from China. Northern blot analysis showed that orf182 transcripts were affected by Rf genes in the isocytoplasmic restorer line DR7. Western blot analysis showed that the ORF182 product was localized in the mitochondria of the CMS line. An expression cassette containing orf182 fused to a mitochondrial transit peptide induced the maintainer line of male sterility, which lacked pollen grains in the anthers. Furthermore, the in vivo expression of orf182 also inhibited the growth of Escherichia coli, with lower respiration rate, excess accumulation of reactive oxygen species and decreased ATP levels. We conclude that the mitochondrial chimeric gene orf182 possesses a unique structure and origin differing from other identified mitochondrial CMS genes, and this gene is connected to non-pollen type of sporophytic male sterility in D1-CMS rice.
Drought stress triggers remarkable physiological changes and growth impediments, which significantly diminish plant biomass and crop yield. However, certain plant species show notable resilience, maintaining nearly normal yields under severe water deficits. For example, sorghum is a naturally drought-tolerant crop, which is ideal for studying plant adaptive responses to drought. Here we used sorbitol treatments to simulate drought-induced osmotic stress in sorghum cell suspension cultures and analysed fractions enriched for extracellular matrix proteins using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification technology. Sorbitol induced an overall increase in protein secretion, with putative redox proteins, proteases, and glycosyl hydrolases featuring prominently among the responsive proteins. Gene expression analysis of selected candidates revealed regulation at the transcriptional level. There was a notable differential gene expression between drought-tolerant and drought-sensitive sorghum varieties for some of the candidates. This study shows that protein secretion is a major component of the sorghum response to osmotic stress. Additionally, our data provide candidate genes, which may have putative functions in sorghum drought tolerance, and offer a pool of genes that could be developed as potential biomarkers for rapid identification of drought tolerant lines in plant breeding programs.
The development of high-yielding crops with drought tolerance is necessary to increase food, feed, fiber and fuel production. Methods that create similar environmental conditions for a large number of genotypes are essential to investigate plant responses to drought in gene discovery studies. Modern facilities that control water availability for each plant remain cost-prohibited to some sections of the research community. We present an alternative cost-effective automated irrigation system scalable for a high-throughput and controlled dry-down treatment of plants. This system was tested in sorghum using two experiments. First, four genotypes were subjected to ten days of dry-down to achieve three final Volumetric Water Content (VWC) levels: drought (0.10 and 0.20 m3 m-3) and control (0.30 m3 m-3). The final average VWC was 0.11, 0.22, and 0.31 m3 m-3, respectively, and significant differences in biomass accumulation were observed between control and drought treatments. Second, 42 diverse sorghum genotypes were subjected to a seven-day dry-down treatment for a final drought stress of 0.15 m3 m-3 VWC. The final average VWC was 0.17 m3 m-3, and plants presented significant differences in photosynthetic rate during the drought period. These results demonstrate that cost-effective automation systems can successfully control substrate water content for each plant, to accurately compare their phenotypic responses to drought, and be scaled up for high-throughput phenotyping studies.
Ultraviolet irradiation-induced hyperpigmentation of the skin is associated with excessive melanin production in melanocytes. Tyrosinase (TYR) is a key enzyme catalyzing the rate-limiting step in melanogenesis. TYR expression is controlled by microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) expression. Sorghum is a cereal crop widely used in a variety of foods worldwide. Sorghum contains many bioactive compounds and is beneficial to human health. However, the effects of sorghum in anti-melanogenesis have not been well characterized. In this study, the biological activity of sorghum ethanolic extract (SEE) on α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-MSH)-induced TYR expression was evaluated in B16F10 melanoma cells. SEE attenuated α-MSH-induced
HD-Zip proteins represent the major transcription factors in higher plants, playing essential roles in plant development and stress responses. Foxtail millet is a crop to investigate the systems biology of millet and biofuel grasses and the HD-Zip gene family has not been studied in foxtail millet. For further investigation of the expression profile of the HD-Zip gene family in foxtail millet, a comprehensive genome-wide expression analysis was conducted in this study. We found 47 protein-encoding genes in foxtail millet using BLAST search tools; the putative proteins were classified into four subfamilies, namely, subfamilies I, II, III, and IV. Gene structure and motif analysis indicate that the genes in one subfamily were conserved. Promotor analysis showed that HD-Zip gene was involved in abiotic stress. Duplication analysis revealed that 8 (~17%) hdz genes were tandemly duplicated and 28 (58%) were segmentally duplicated; purifying duplication plays important roles in gene expansion. Microsynteny analysis revealed the maximum relationship in foxtail millet-sorghum and foxtail millet-rice. Expression profiling upon the abiotic stresses of drought and high salinity and the biotic stress of ABA revealed that some genes regulated responses to drought and salinity stresses via an ABA-dependent process, especially
Pearl millet [Pennisetum glaucum (L.) R. Br.] is an important "orphan" cereal and the most widely grown of all the millet species worldwide. It is also the sixth most important cereal in the world after wheat, rice, maize, barley, and sorghum, being largely grown and used in West Africa as well as in India and Pakistan. The present study was carried out in the frame of a program designed to increase benefits and reduce potential health problems deriving from the consumption of pearl millet. The specific goal was to provide a database of information on the variability existing in pearl millet germplasm as to the amounts of phytate, the most relevant antinutrient compound, and the goitrogenic compounds C-glycosylflavones (C-GFs) accumulated in the grain.Results we obtained clearly show that, as indicated by the range in values, a substantial variability subsists across the investigated pearl millet inbred lines as regards the grain level of phytic acid phosphate, while the amount of C-GFs shows a very high variation. Suitable potential parents to be used in breeding programs can be therefore chosen from the surveyed material in order to create new germplasm with increased nutritional quality and food safety. Moreover, we report novel molecular data showing which genes are more relevant for phytic acid biosynthesis in the seeds as well as a preliminary analysis of a pearl millet orthologous gene for C-GFs biosynthesis. These results open the way to dissect the genetic determinants controlling key seed nutritional phenotypes and to the characterization of their impact on grain nutritional value in pearl millet.
The intimate interaction between plant host and associated microorganisms is crucial in determining plant fitness, and can foster improved tolerance to abiotic stresses and diseases. As the plant microbiome can be highly complex, low-cost, high-throughput methods such as amplicon-based sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene are often preferred for characterizing its microbial composition and diversity. However, the selection of appropriate methodology when conducting such experiments is critical for reducing biases that can make analysis and comparisons between samples and studies difficult. This protocol describes in detail a standardized methodology for the collection and extraction of DNA from soil, rhizosphere, and root samples. Additionally, we highlight a well-established 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing pipeline that allows for the exploration of the composition of bacterial communities in these samples, and can easily be adapted for other marker genes. This pipeline has been validated for a variety of plant species, including sorghum, maize, wheat, strawberry, and agave, and can help overcome issues associated with the contamination from plant organelles.
Premature leaf senescence (PLS), which has a significant impact on yield, is caused by various underlying mechanisms. Glycosyltransferases, which function in glycosyl transfer from activated nucleotides to aglycones, are involved in diverse biological processes, but their roles in rice leaf senescence remain elusive. Here, we isolated and characterized a leaf senescence-related gene from the
Na⁺ transporters play an important role during salt stress and development. The present study is aimed at genome-wide identification, in silico analysis of sodium-proton antiporter (NHX) and sodium-proton exchanger (NHE)-type transporters in
Tillering contributes to grain yield and plant architecture and therefore is an agronomically important trait in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). Here, we identified and functionally characterized a mutant of the Non-dormant Axillary Bud 1 (NAB1) gene from an ethyl methanesulfonate-mutagenized sorghum population. The nab1 mutants have increased tillering and reduced plant height. Map-based cloning revealed that NAB1 encodes a carotenoid-cleavage dioxygenase 7 (CCD7) orthologous to rice (Oryza sativa) HIGH-TILLERING DWARF1/DWARF17 and Arabidopsis thaliana MORE AXILLARY BRANCHING 3. NAB1 is primarily expressed in axillary nodes and tiller bases and NAB1 localizes to chloroplasts. The nab1 mutation causes outgrowth of basal axillary buds; removing these non-dormant basal axillary buds restored the wild-type phenotype. The tillering of nab1 plants was completely suppressed by exogenous application of the synthetic strigolactone analog GR24. Moreover, the nab1 plants had no detectable strigolactones and displayed stronger polar auxin transport than wild-type plants. Finally, RNA-seq showed that the expression of genes involved in multiple processes, including auxin-related genes, was significantly altered in nab1. These results suggest that NAB1 functions in strigolactone biosynthesis and the regulation of shoot branching via an interaction with auxin transport.
Sorghum is a crop plant that is grown for seeds, sucrose, forage and biofuel production. In all these applications, lignin is a superfluous component that decreases the efficiency of technological processes. Caffeoyl-coenzyme A O-methyltransferase (CCoAOMT) is an enzyme involved in monolignol synthesis that affects the efficiency of lignification and lignin composition. The sorghum genome harbors one CCoAOMT gene and six closely related CCoAOMT-like genes. The structures of four sorghum CCoAOMT-like enzymes suggest that these proteins might methylate caffeoyl coenzyme A and contribute to monolignol synthesis. In this study, two sorghum genes, CCoAOMT and one CCoAOMT-like, were found to be highly expressed in leaves, stems and immature seeds. The promoters of these genes possess clusters of transcription factor-binding sites specific for lignification, and this suggests that they are important for lignification. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that one sorghum CCoAOMT-like enzyme is closely related to ancestral cyanobacterial CCoAOMT-like proteins. The remaining CCoAOMT-like enzymes, including the one highly expressed in the leaves and stem, are closely related to CCoAOMT. Genes from these two groups possess different, evolutionarily conserved gene structures. The structure of the sorghum CCoAOMT-like protein from the ancestral clade was modeled and differences between enzymes from the two clades were analyzed. These results facilitate a better understanding of the evolution of genes involved in lignification, and provide valuable data for sorghum improvement through traditional breeding or molecular genetic techniques. The findings suggest that CCoAOMT-like genes might be recruited in lignification and raise questions of the frequency of such functional shifts.
Maize and sorghum are both important crops with similar overall plant architectures, but they have key differences, especially in regard to their inflorescences. To better understand these two organisms at the molecular level, we compared expression profiles of both protein-coding and noncoding transcripts in 11 matched tissues using single-molecule, long-read, deep RNA sequencing. This comparative analysis revealed large numbers of novel isoforms in both species. Evolutionarily young genes were likely to be generated in reproductive tissues and usually had fewer isoforms than old genes. We also observed similarities and differences in alternative splicing patterns and activities, both among tissues and between species. The maize subgenomes exhibited no bias in isoform generation; however, genes in the B genome were more highly expressed in pollen tissue, whereas genes in the A genome were more highly expressed in endosperm. We also identified a number of splicing events conserved between maize and sorghum. In addition, we generated comprehensive and high-resolution maps of poly(A) sites, revealing similarities and differences in mRNA cleavage between the two species. Overall, our results reveal considerable splicing and expression diversity between sorghum and maize, well beyond what was reported in previous studies, likely reflecting the differences in architecture between these two species.
Utilization of energy-rich crop residues by ruminants is restricted by the presence of lignin, which is recalcitrant to digestion. Application of lignin degrading enzymes on the lignocellulosic biomass exposes the cellulose for easy digestion by ruminants. Laccases have been found to be considerably effective in improving the digestibility by way of delignification. However, laccase yields from natural hosts are not sufficient for industrial scale applications, which restricts their use. A viable option would be to express the laccase gene in compatible hosts to achieve higher production yields. A codon-optimized synthetic variant of Schizophyllum commune laccase gene was cloned into a pPIC9K vector and expressed in P. pastoris GS115 (his4) under the control of an alcohol oxidase promoter. Colonies were screened for G418 resistance and the methanol utilization phenotype was established. The transformant yielded a laccase activity of 344 U·mL
Drought stress is a major obstacle to crop productivity, and the severity and frequency of drought are expected to increase in the coming century. Certain root-associated bacteria have been shown to mitigate the negative effects of drought stress on plant growth, and manipulation of the crop microbiome is an emerging strategy for overcoming drought stress in agricultural systems, yet the effect of drought on the development of the root microbiome is poorly understood. Through 16S rRNA amplicon and metatranscriptome sequencing, as well as root metabolomics, we demonstrate that drought delays the development of the early sorghum root microbiome and causes increased abundance and activity of monoderm bacteria, which lack an outer cell membrane and contain thick cell walls. Our data suggest that altered plant metabolism and increased activity of bacterial ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter genes are correlated with these shifts in community composition. Finally, inoculation experiments with monoderm isolates indicate that increased colonization of the root during drought can positively impact plant growth. Collectively, these results demonstrate the role that drought plays in restructuring the root microbiome and highlight the importance of temporal sampling when studying plant-associated microbiomes.
Architectural proteins play key roles in genome construction and regulate the expression of many genes, albeit the modulation of genome plasticity by these proteins is largely unknown. A critical screening of the architectural proteins in five crop species, viz.,
Crop response to the changing climate and unpredictable effects of global warming with adverse conditions such as drought stress has brought concerns about food security to the fore; crop yield loss is a major cause of concern in this regard. Identification of genes with multiple responses across environmental stresses is the genetic foundation that leads to crop adaptation to environmental perturbations. In this paper, we introduce an integrated approach to assess candidate genes for multiple stress responses across-species. The approach combines ontology based semantic data integration with expression profiling, comparative genomics, phylogenomics, functional gene enrichment and gene enrichment network analysis to identify genes associated with plant stress phenotypes. Five different ontologies, viz., Gene Ontology (GO), Trait Ontology (TO), Plant Ontology (PO), Growth Ontology (GRO) and Environment Ontology (EO) were used to semantically integrate drought related information. Target genes linked to Quantitative Trait Loci (QTLs) controlling yield and stress tolerance in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) and closely related species were identified. Based on the enriched GO terms of the biological processes, 1116 sorghum genes with potential responses to 5 different stresses, such as drought (18%), salt (32%), cold (20%), heat (8%) and oxidative stress (25%) were identified to be over-expressed. Out of 169 sorghum drought responsive QTLs associated genes that were identified based on expression datasets, 56% were shown to have multiple stress responses. On the other hand, out of 168 additional genes that have been evaluated for orthologous pairs, 90% were conserved across species for drought tolerance. Over 50% of identified maize and rice genes were responsive to drought and salt stresses and were co-located within multifunctional QTLs. Among the total identified multi-stress responsive genes, 272 targets were shown to be co-localized within QTLs associated with different traits that are responsive to multiple stresses. Ontology mapping was used to validate the identified genes, while reconstruction of the phylogenetic tree was instrumental to infer the evolutionary relationship of the sorghum orthologs. The results also show specific genes responsible for various interrelated components of drought response mechanism such as drought tolerance, drought avoidance and drought escape. We submit that this approach is novel and to our knowledge, has not been used previously in any other research; it enables us to perform cross-species queries for genes that are likely to be associated with multiple stress tolerance, as a means to identify novel targets for engineering stress resistance in sorghum and possibly, in other crop species.
Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) is the key platform for the quantitative analysis of gene expression in a wide range of experimental systems and conditions. However, the accuracy and reproducibility of gene expression quantification via RT-qPCR is entirely dependent on the identification of reliable reference genes for data normalisation. Green foxtail ( Eleven putative candidate reference genes were identified and examined across thirteen different This approach readily demonstrated the suitably of the three selected reference genes for the accurate and reliable normalisation of
ATP sulfurylase (ATPS, EC: 2.7.7.4) is a crucial enzyme for sulfate assimilation pathway in both plastids and cytosol in plants. In this study, genome-wide and comparative analyses of ATPSs in 11 higher plant species, including sequence and structural analyses have been performed. Expression of ATPS genes in sorghum under cadmium (Cd) and salinity (NaCl) stresses were also investigated to provide a model experimental data for the regulation of ATPS genes under stress conditions. Thirty-one ATPS genes from 11 plant species were found. It showed that ATPSs from different species have high sequence divergences, which cause structural differences among them. Phylogenetic analysis has shown that there are two major types of ATPSs evolved in dicots while monocots were evolved to have one type of ATPs. Finally, expression analysis of ATPS genes revealed tissue and stress dependent expression pattern, which indicates expressions of ATPS genes are tightly regulated.
Grain number per panicle (GNP) is a major determinant of grain yield in cereals. However, the mechanisms that regulate GNP remain unclear. To address this issue, we isolate a series of sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] multiseeded (msd) mutants that can double GNP by increasing panicle size and altering floral development so that all spikelets are fertile and set grain. Through bulk segregant analysis by next-generation sequencing, we identify MSD1 as a TCP (Teosinte branched/Cycloidea/PCF) transcription factor. Whole-genome expression profiling reveals that jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthetic enzymes are transiently activated in pedicellate spikelets. Young msd1 panicles have 50% less JA than wild-type (WT) panicles, and application of exogenous JA can rescue the msd1 phenotype. Our results reveal a new mechanism for increasing GNP, with the potential to boost grain yield, and provide insight into the regulation of plant inflorescence architecture and development.
The cell-wall-degrading enzymes (CWDE) secreted by necrotrophs are important virulence factors. Although not unequivocally demonstrated, it has been suggested that necrotrophs induce hosts to cooperate in disease development through manipulation of host CWDE. The necrotrophic fungus Macrophomina phaseolina causes charcoal rot disease in Sorghum bicolor. An RNA-seq experiment was conducted to investigate the behavior of sorghum CWDE-encoding genes after M. phaseolina inoculation. Results revealed M. phaseolina's ability to significantly upregulate pectin methylesterase-, polygalacturonase-, cellulase-, endoglucanase-, and glycosyl hydrolase-encoding genes in a charcoal rot-susceptible sorghum genotype (Tx7000) but not in a resistant genotype (SC599). For functional validation, crude enzyme mixtures were extracted from M. phaseolina- and mock-inoculated charcoal-rot-resistant (SC599 and SC35) and -susceptible (Tx7000 and BTx3042) sorghum genotype stalks. A gel diffusion assay (pectin substrate) revealed significantly increased pectin methylesterase activity in M. phaseolina-inoculated Tx7000 and BTx3042. Polygalacturonase activity was determined using a ruthenium red absorbance assay (535 nm). Significantly increased polygalacturonase activity was observed in two susceptible genotypes after M. phaseolina inoculation. The activity of cellulose-degrading enzymes was determined using a 2-cyanoacetamide fluorimetric assay (excitation and emission maxima at 331 and 383 nm, respectively). The assay revealed significantly increased cellulose-degrading enzyme activity in M. phaseolina-inoculated Tx7000 and BTx3042. These findings revealed M. phaseolina's ability to promote charcoal rot susceptibility in grain sorghum through induced host CWDE.
Sorgoleone, a major component of the hydrophobic root exudates of Sorghum spp., is probably responsible for many of the allelopathic properties attributed to members of this genus. Much of the biosynthetic pathway for this compound has been elucidated, with the exception of the enzyme responsible for the catalysis of the addition of two hydroxyl groups to the resorcinol ring. A library prepared from isolated Sorghum bicolor root hair cells was first mined for P450-like sequences, which were then analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) to identify those preferentially expressed in root hairs. Full-length open reading frames for each candidate were generated, and then analyzed biochemically using both a yeast expression system and transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated repression in transgenic S. bicolor was used to confirm the roles of these candidates in the biosynthesis of sorgoleone in planta. A P450 enzyme, designated CYP71AM1, was found to be capable of catalyzing the formation of dihydrosorgoleone using 5-pentadecatrienyl resorcinol-3-methyl ether as substrate, as determined by gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS). RNAi-mediated repression of CYP71AM1 in S. bicolor resulted in decreased sorgoleone contents in multiple independent transformant events. Our results strongly suggest that CYP71AM1 participates in the biosynthetic pathway of the allelochemical sorgoleone.
The present study identified several important candidate Pi regulation genes of maize and provides a better understanding on the generation of PHR genes in gramineous plants. Plants have evolved adaptive responses to cope with low phosphate (Pi) soils. The previous studies have indicated that phosphate starvation response (PHR) genes play central roles in regulating plant Pi starvation responses. However, the investigation of PHR family in gramineous plants is limited. In this study, we identified 64 PHR genes in four gramineous plants, including maize, rice, sorghum, and brachypodium, and conducted systematical analyses on phylogenetic, structure, collinearity, and expression pattern of these PHR genes. Genome synteny analysis revealed that a number of PHR genes were present in the corresponding syntenic blocks of maize, rice, sorghum, and brachypodium, indicating that large-scale duplication events contributed significantly to the expansion and evolution of PHR genes in these gramineous plants. Gene expression analysis showed that many PHR genes were expressed in various tissues, suggesting that these genes are involved in Pi redistribution and allocation. In addition, the expression levels of PHR genes from maize and rice under low Pi stress conditions revealed that some PHRs may play an important role in Pi starvation response. Our results provided a better understanding on the generation of PHR genes in gramineous plants and identified several important candidate Pi regulation genes of maize.
Maize (Zea mays L.) displays an exceptional degree of structural genomic diversity [1, 2]. In addition, variation in gene expression further contributes to the extraordinary phenotypic diversity and plasticity of maize. This study provides a systematic investigation on how distantly related homozygous maize inbred lines affect the transcriptomic plasticity of their highly heterozygous F
Our results show that Sorghum bicolor is able to recognize bacteria through its volatile compounds and differentially respond to beneficial or pathogens via eliciting nutritional or defense adaptive traits. Plants establish beneficial, harmful, or neutral relationships with bacteria. Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) emit volatile compounds (VCs), which may act as molecular cues influencing plant development, nutrition, and/or defense. In this study, we compared the effects of VCs produced by bacteria with different lifestyles, including Arthrobacter agilis UMCV2, Bacillus methylotrophicus M4-96, Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021, the plant pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1, and the commensal rhizobacterium Bacillus sp. L2-64, on S. bicolor. We show that VCs from all tested bacteria, except Bacillus sp. L2-64, increased biomass and chlorophyll content, and improved root architecture, but notheworthy A. agilis induced the release of attractant molecules, whereas P. aeruginosa activated the exudation of growth inhibitory compounds by roots. An analysis of the expression of iron-transporters SbIRT1, SbIRT2, SbYS1, and SbYS2 and genes related to plant defense pathways COI1 and PR-1 indicated that beneficial, pathogenic, and commensal bacteria could up-regulate iron transporters, whereas only beneficial and pathogenic species could induce a defense response. These results show how S. bicolor could recognize bacteria through their volatiles profiles and highlight that PGPR or pathogens can elicit nutritional or defensive traits in plants.
Calcium dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) play significant role in regulation of plant growth and development in response to various stresses including drought. A set of 32 CDPK genes identified in maize were further used for searching of orthologs in the model plant
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) is used as a raw material for biofuels because it accumulates sugars at high levels in the stem. Lodging of sorghum occurs when the soil is wet and very high winds blow across the field. In root lodging, the roots are pulled loose from the soil, causing the plant to fall over. Lodging reduces the yield of nonstructural carbohydrates. It is not yet clear which genes show changes in expression when sorghum falls over. We compared whole-gene expression in the mature stems of intact and lodged sorghum plants, with a focus on comparisons from the perspective of differences in sugar accumulation or degradation. Lodging decreased sucrose content, starch content, and ratio of sucrose to total sugars in the stems of the sorghum cultivar SIL-05. Particular paralogs of SWEET and TMT family genes, which encode sucrose or hexose transporters, or both, were significantly highly expressed in intact or lodged sorghum stems. In intact stems, genes encoding the glucose-6-phosphate translocator, aquaporins, and enzymes involved in photosynthesis and starch synthesis were highly expressed. In lodged sorghum stems, expression of genes associated with sucrose or starch degradation or energy production was increased. Notably, expression of genes encoding enzymes catalyzing irreversible reactions and associated with the first steps of these metabolic pathways (e.g. INV, SUS, and hexokinase- and fructokinase-encoding genes) was significantly increased by lodging. Expression of SUT, SPS, and SPP was almost the same in intact and lodged sorghum. Specific paralogs of sucrose-associated genes involved in metabolic pathways and in membrane transport were expressed in the stems of sorghum SIL-05 at the full-ripe stage. Root lodging drastically changed the expression of these genes from sucrose accumulation to degradation. The changes in gene expression resulted in decreases in sugar content and in the proportion of sucrose to hexoses in the stems of lodged plants.
Chilling temperatures (0 to 15°C) are a major constraint for temperate cultivation of tropical-origin crops, including the cereal crop sorghum ( [L.] Moench). Northern Chinese sorghums have adapted to early-season chilling, but molecular mechanisms of chilling tolerance are unknown. We used RNA sequencing of seedlings to compare the chilling-responsive transcriptomes of a chilling-tolerant Chinese accession with a chilling-sensitive US reference line, and mass spectrometry to compare chilling-responsive lipidomes of four chilling-tolerant Chinese accessions with two US reference lines. Comparative transcriptomics revealed chilling-induced up-regulation of cold-response regulator C-repeat binding factor (CBF) transcription factor and genes involved in reactive oxygen detoxification, jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthesis, and lipid remodeling phospholipase Dα1 (α) gene in the chilling-tolerant Chinese line. Lipidomics revealed conserved chilling-induced increases in lipid unsaturation, as well as lipid remodeling of photosynthetic membranes that is specific to chilling-tolerant Chinese accessions. Our results point to CBF-mediated transcriptional regulation, galactolipid and phospholipid remodeling, and JA as potential molecular mechanisms underlying chilling adaptation in Chinese sorghums. These molecular systems underlying chilling response could be targeted in molecular breeding for chilling tolerance.
Drought is the most disastrous abiotic stress that severely affects agricultural productivity worldwide. Understanding the biological basis of drought-regulated traits, requires identification and an in-depth characterization of genetic determinants using model organisms and high-throughput technologies. However, studies on drought tolerance have generally been limited to traditional candidate gene approach that targets only a single gene in a pathway that is related to a trait. In this study, we used sorghum, one of the model crops that is well adapted to arid regions, to mine genes and define determinants for drought tolerance using drought expression libraries and RNA-seq data. We provide an integrated and comparative in silico candidate gene identification, characterization and annotation approach, with an emphasis on genes playing a prominent role in conferring drought tolerance in sorghum. A total of 470 non-redundant functionally annotated drought responsive genes (DRGs) were identified using experimental data from drought responses by employing pairwise sequence similarity searches, pathway and interpro-domain analysis, expression profiling and orthology relation. Comparison of the genomic locations between these genes and sorghum quantitative trait loci (QTLs) showed that 40% of these genes were co-localized with QTLs known for drought tolerance. The genome reannotation conducted using the Program to Assemble Spliced Alignment (PASA), resulted in 9.6% of existing single gene models being updated. In addition, 210 putative novel genes were identified using AUGUSTUS and PASA based analysis on expression dataset. Among these, 50% were single exonic, 69.5% represented drought responsive and 5.7% were complete gene structure models. Analysis of biochemical metabolism revealed 14 metabolic pathways that are related to drought tolerance and also had a strong biological network, among categories of genes involved. Identification of these pathways, signifies the interplay of biochemical reactions that make up the metabolic network, constituting fundamental interface for sorghum defence mechanism against drought stress. This study suggests untapped natural variability in sorghum that could be used for developing drought tolerance. The data presented here, may be regarded as an initial reference point in functional and comparative genomics in the Gramineae family.
The domestication of diverse grain crops from wild grasses was a result of artificial selection for a suite of overlapping traits producing changes referred to in aggregate as 'domestication syndrome'. Parallel phenotypic change can be accomplished by either selection on orthologous genes or selection on non-orthologous genes with parallel phenotypic effects. To determine how often artificial selection for domestication traits in the grasses targeted orthologous genes, we employed resequencing data from wild and domesticated accessions of Zea (maize) and Sorghum (sorghum). Many 'classic' domestication genes identified through quantitative trait locus mapping in populations resulting from wild/domesticated crosses indeed show signatures of parallel selection in both maize and sorghum. However, the overall number of genes showing signatures of parallel selection in both species is not significantly different from that expected by chance. This suggests that while a small number of genes will extremely large phenotypic effects have been targeted repeatedly by artificial selection during domestication, the optimization part of domestication targeted small and largely non-overlapping subsets of all possible genes which could produce equivalent phenotypic alterations.
Secondary walls are the most abundant biomass produced by plants, and they consist mainly of lignin, cellulose and hemicellulose. Understanding how secondary wall biosynthesis is regulated could potentially provide genetic tools for engineering biomass components, especially in maize and Sorghum bicolor. Although many works have focused on secondary wall biosynthesis in dicotyledons, little has been reported for these monocotyledons. In this study, we cloned two NAC transcriptional factor genes, ZmNST3 and ZmNST4, and analyzed their functions in maize secondary wall formation process. ZmNST3 and ZmNST4 were expressed specifically in secondary wall-forming cells, expression of ZmNST3/4 can restore the pendent phenotype of Arabidopsis nst1nst3 double mutant. ZmNST3/4-overexpressing Arabidopsis and maize displayed a thickened secondary wall in the stem, and knockdown maize showed defective secondary wall deposition. ZmNST3/4 could regulate the expression of ZmMYB109/128/149. Our results revealed that ZmNST3/4 are master switches of the maize secondary wall biosynthesis process and provides new evidence that the secondary wall regulatory pathway is conserved in different plant species.
Sulfur is an essential element for all living organisms. Plants can convert inorganic sulfur into organic sulfur compounds by complex enzymatic steps. In this study, we conducted a genome-wide analysis of sulfate transporter genes (SULTRs) in the sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) genome and examined expression profiles of SbSULTR genes under 200 µM cadmium (Cd) exposure. As a result of sorghum genome analysis, 11 SULTR genes were identified, including SbSULTR1;1, SbSULTR1;2, SbSULTR1;3, SbSULTR2;1, SbSULTR2;2, SbSULTR3;1, SbSULTR3;2, SbSULTR3;3, SbSULTR3;4, SbSULTR3;5, and SbSULTR4. Given names are based on phylogeny and chromosomal locations. Except SbSULTR4, all SbSULTR proteins contained Sulfate_transp (PF00916), STAS (PF01740) domains and 12 trans-membrane domains. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that four major groups were identified such as SULTR1, 2, 3, and 4 groups and SULTR4 group was separated to other SULTR groups. In promotor sequences of SbSULTR genes, many diverse cis-acting elements were found mainly related with physiological processes such as light, stress and hormone responsiveness. The expression profiles of SbSULTR genes showed that SULTR1;2, 1;3, 3;3, and 3;5 genes up-regulated in root, while expression level of SULTR4 decreased under 200 µM Cd exposure. The predicted 3D structures of SULTR proteins showed some conformational changes, suggesting functional diversities of SbSULTRs. Finally, results of this study may contribute towards understanding SbSULTR genes and their regulations and roles in Cd stress in sorghum.
Bipolaris cookei (=Bipolaris sorghicola) causes target leaf spot, one of the most prevalent foliar diseases of sorghum. Little is known about the molecular basis of pathogenesis in B. cookei, in large part due to a paucity of resources for molecular genetics, such as a reference genome. Here, a draft genome sequence of B. cookei was obtained and analyzed. A hybrid assembly strategy utilizing Illumina and Pacific Biosciences sequencing technologies produced a draft nuclear genome of 36.1 Mb, organized into 321 scaffolds with L50 of 31 and N50 of 378 kb, from which 11,189 genes were predicted. Additionally, a finished mitochondrial genome sequence of 135,790 bp was obtained, which contained 75 predicted genes. Comparative genomics revealed that B. cookei possessed substantially fewer carbohydrate-active enzymes and secreted proteins than closely related Bipolaris species. Novel genes involved in secondary metabolism, including genes implicated in ophiobolin biosynthesis, were identified. Among 37 B. cookei genes induced during sorghum infection, one encodes a putative effector with a limited taxonomic distribution among plant pathogenic fungi. The draft genome sequence of B. cookei provided novel insights into target leaf spot of sorghum and is an important resource for future investigation.
The presence of non-coding introns is a characteristic feature of most eukaryotic genes. While the size of the introns, number of introns per gene and the number of intron-containing genes can vary greatly between sequenced eukaryotic genomes, the structure of a gene with reference to intron presence and positions is typically conserved in closely related species. Unexpectedly, the ABCB1 (ATP-Binding Cassette Subfamily B Member 1) gene which encodes a P-glycoprotein and underlies dwarfing traits in maize (br2), sorghum (dw3) and pearl millet (d2) displayed considerable variation in intron composition. An analysis of the ABCB1 gene structure in 80 angiosperms revealed that the number of introns ranged from one to nine. All introns in ABCB1 underwent either a one-time loss (single loss in one lineage/species) or multiple independent losses (parallel loss in two or more lineages/species) with the majority of losses occurring within the grass family. In contrast, the structure of the closest homolog to ABCB1, ABCB19, remained constant in the majority of angiosperms analyzed. Using known phylogenetic relationships within the grasses, we determined the ancestral branch-points where the losses occurred. Intron 7, the longest intron, was lost in only a single species, Mimulus guttatus, following duplication of ABCB1. Semiquantitative PCR showed that the M. guttatus ABCB1 gene copy without intron 7 had significantly lower transcript levels than the gene copy with intron 7. We further demonstrated that intron 7 carried two motifs that were highly conserved across the monocot-dicot divide. The ABCB1 gene structure is highly dynamic, while the structure of ABCB19 remained largely conserved through evolution. Precise removal of introns, preferential removal of smaller introns and presence of at least 2 bp of microhomology flanking most introns indicated that intron loss may have predominantly occurred through non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) repair of double strand breaks. Lack of microhomology in the exon upstream of lost phase I introns was likely due to release of the selective constraint on the penultimate base (3rd base in codon) of the terminal codon by the splicing machinery. In addition to size, the presence of regulatory motifs will make introns recalcitrant to loss.
The spatial organization of the genome plays an important role in the regulation of gene expression. However, the core structural features of animal genomes, such as topologically associated domains (TADs) and chromatin loops, are not prominent in the extremely compact Arabidopsis genome. In this study, we examine the chromatin architecture, as well as their DNA methylation, histone modifications, accessible chromatin, and gene expression, of maize, tomato, sorghum, foxtail millet, and rice with genome sizes ranging from 0.4 to 2.4 Gb. We found that these plant genomes can be divided into mammalian-like A/B compartments. At higher resolution, the chromosomes of these plants can be further partitioned to local A/B compartments that reflect their euchromatin, heterochromatin, and polycomb status. Chromatins in all these plants are organized into domains that are not conserved across species. They show similarity to the Drosophila compartment domains, and are clustered into active, polycomb, repressive, and intermediate types based on their transcriptional activities and epigenetic signatures, with domain border overlaps with the local A/B compartment junctions. In the large maize and tomato genomes, we observed extensive chromatin loops. However, unlike the mammalian chromatin loops that are enriched at the TAD border, plant chromatin loops are often formed between gene islands outside the repressive domains and are closely associated with active compartments. Our study indicates that plants have complex and unique 3D chromatin architectures, which require further study to elucidate their biological functions.
Sorghum bicolor is a drought tolerant C4 grass used for the production of grain, forage, sugar, and lignocellulosic biomass and a genetic model for C4 grasses due to its relatively small genome (approximately 800 Mbp), diploid genetics, diverse germplasm, and colinearity with other C4 grass genomes. In this study, deep sequencing, genetic linkage analysis, and transcriptome data were used to produce and annotate a high-quality reference genome sequence. Reference genome sequence order was improved, 29.6 Mbp of additional sequence was incorporated, the number of genes annotated increased 24% to 34 211, average gene length and N50 increased, and error frequency was reduced 10-fold to 1 per 100 kbp. Subtelomeric repeats with characteristics of Tandem Repeats in Miniature (TRIM) elements were identified at the termini of most chromosomes. Nucleosome occupancy predictions identified nucleosomes positioned immediately downstream of transcription start sites and at different densities across chromosomes. Alignment of more than 50 resequenced genomes from diverse sorghum genotypes to the reference genome identified approximately 7.4 M single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 1.9 M indels. Large-scale variant features in euchromatin were identified with periodicities of approximately 25 kbp. A transcriptome atlas of gene expression was constructed from 47 RNA-seq profiles of growing and developed tissues of the major plant organs (roots, leaves, stems, panicles, and seed) collected during the juvenile, vegetative and reproductive phases. Analysis of the transcriptome data indicated that tissue type and protein kinase expression had large influences on transcriptional profile clustering. The updated assembly, annotation, and transcriptome data represent a resource for C4 grass research and crop improvement.
This work provides the bioinformatics, expression pattern and functional analyses of cryptochrome 1a from sweet sorghum (SbCRY1a), together with an exploration of the signaling mechanism mediated by SbCRY1a. Sweet sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] is considered to be an ideal candidate for biofuel production due to its high efficiency of photosynthesis and the ability to maintain yield under harsh environmental conditions. Blue light receptor cryptochromes regulate multiple aspects of plant growth and development. Here, we reported the function and signal mechanism of sweet sorghum cryptochrome 1a (SbCRY1a) to explore its potential for genetic improvement of sweet sorghum varieties. SbCRY1a transcripts experienced almost 24 h diurnal cycling; however, its protein abundance showed no oscillation. Overexpression of SbCRY1a in Arabidopsis rescued the phenotype of cry1 mutant in a blue light-specific manner and regulated HY5 accumulation under blue light. SbCRY1a protein was present in both nucleus and cytoplasm. The photoexcited SbCRY1a interacted directly with a putative RING E3 ubiquitin ligase constitutive photomorphogenesis 1 (COP1) from sweet sorghum (SbCOP1) instead of SbSPA1 to suppress SbCOP1-SbHY5 interaction responding to blue light. These observations indicate that the function and signaling mechanism of cryptochromes are basically conservative between monocotyledons and dicotyledons. Moreover, SbCRY1a-overexpressed transgenic Arabidopsis showed oversensitive to abscisic acid (ABA) and salinity. The ABA-responsive gene ABI5 was up-regulated evidently in SbCRY1a transgenic lines, suggesting that SbCRY1a might regulate ABA signaling through the HY5-ABI5 regulon.
Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum), a perennial, polyploid, C4 warm-season grass is among the foremost herbaceous species being advanced as a source of biomass for biofuel end uses. At the end of every growing season, the aerial tissues senesce, and the below-ground rhizomes become dormant. Future growth is dependent on the successful over-wintering of the rhizomes. Although the importance of rhizome health to overall year-upon-year plant productivity has been long recognized, there is limited information on seasonal changes occurring during dormancy at both the transcriptome and metabolite levels. Here, global changes in transcriptomes and metabolites were investigated over two growing seasons in rhizomes harvested from field-grown plants. The objectives were: (a) synthesize information on cellular processes that lead to dormancy; and (b) provide models that could account for major metabolic pathways present in dormant switchgrass rhizomes. Overall, metabolism during dormancy appeared to involve discrete but interrelated events. One was a response to abscisic acid that resulted in dehydration, increases in osmolytes and upregulation of autophagic processes, likely through the target of rapamycin complex and sucrose non-fermentative-related kinase-based signaling cascades. Another was a recalibration of energy transduction through apparent reductions in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, increases in substrate level generation of ATP and reducing equivalents, and recycling of N and possibly CO
The natural products cyanogenic glycosides (CNglcs) are present in various forage plant species including Sorghum spp., Trifolium spp., and Lotus spp. The release of toxic hydrogen cyanide (HCN) from endogenous CNglcs, which is known as cyanogenesis, leads to a serious problem for animal consumption while as defensive secondary metabolites, CNglcs play multiple roles in plant development and responses to adverse environment. Therefore, it is highly important to fully uncover the molecular mechanisms of CNglc biosynthesis and regulation to manipulate the contents of CNglcs in forage plants for fine-tuning the balance between defensive responses and food safety. This review summarizes recent studies on the production, function, polymorphism, and regulation of CNglcs in forage plants, aiming to provide updated knowledge on the ways to manipulate CNglcs for further beneficial economic effects.
Since experimental elucidation of gene function is often laborious, various in silico methods have been developed to predict gene function of uncharacterized genes. Since functionally related genes are often expressed in the same tissues, conditions and developmental stages (co-expressed), functional annotation of characterized genes can be transferred to co-expressed genes lacking annotation. With genome-wide expression data available, the construction of co-expression networks, where genes are nodes and edges connect significantly co-expressed genes, provides unprecedented opportunities to predict gene function. However, the construction of such networks requires large volumes of high-quality data, multiple processing steps and a considerable amount of computation power. While efficient tools exist to process RNA-Seq data, pipelines which combine them to construct co-expression networks efficiently are currently lacking. LSTrAP (Large-Scale Transcriptome Analysis Pipeline), presented here, combines all essential tools to construct co-expression networks based on RNA-Seq data into a single, efficient workflow. By supporting parallel computing on computer cluster infrastructure, processing hundreds of samples becomes feasible as shown here for Arabidopsis thaliana and Sorghum bicolor, which comprised 876 and 215 samples respectively. The former was used here to show how the quality control, included in LSTrAP, can detect spurious or low-quality samples. The latter was used to show how co-expression networks are able to group known photosynthesis genes and imply a role in this process of several, currently uncharacterized, genes. LSTrAP combines the most popular and performant methods to construct co-expression networks from RNA-Seq data into a single workflow. This allows large amounts of expression data, required to construct co-expression networks, to be processed efficiently and consistently across hundreds of samples. LSTrAP is implemented in Python 3.4 (or higher) and available under MIT license from https://github.molgen.mpg.de/proost/LSTrAP.
MYB transcription factors are widespread in plants and play key roles in plant development. Although MYB transcription factors have been thoroughly characterized in many plants, genome-wide analysis of the MYB gene family has not yet been undertaken in Brachypodium distachyon. In this study, 122 BdMYB transcription factors were identified, comprising 85 MYB-R2R3, 34 MYB-related and three MYB-R1R2R3. Phylogenetic analysis showed that BdMYBs, OsMYBs and AtMYBs with similar functions were clustered in the same subgroup, and the phylogenetic relationships of BdMYB transcription factors were supported by highly conserved motifs and gene structures. Two cis-elements were found in the promoters of BdMYB genes. One is related to plant growth/development, the other is related to stress responses. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis indicated that most of the BdMYB genes are involved in various biological processes. The chromosome distribution pattern strongly indicated that genome-wide tandem and segment duplication mainly contributed to the expansion of the BdMYB gene family. Synteny analysis showed that 56, 58 and 61 BdMYB genes were orthologous to rice, maize and sorghum, respectively. We further demonstrated that BdMYB genes have evolved under strong purifying selection. The expression profiles indicated that most BdMYB genes might participate in floral development and respond to abiotic stresses. Additionally, 338 pairs of proteins were predicted to interact by constructing the interaction network. This work laid the foundation and provided clues for understanding the biological functions of these transcription factors.
Recombinant CanPI-7 (with four-Inhibitory Repeat Domains, IRDs), -22 (two-IRDs) and insect proteinase activities were estimated by proteinase assays, dot blot assays and Larval proteinases of Of the two PIs tested, CanPI-7 prevents induction of inhibitor insensitive proteinases in Ingestion of CanPIs, effectively retards
Copper (Cu) is a important micronutrient for plants, but it is extremely toxic to plants at high concentration and can inactivate and disturb protein structures. To explore the Cu stress-induced tolerance mechanism, the present study was conducted on the roots of sorghum seedlings exposed to 50 and 100 µM CuSO
Visualization of the intact embryo sac within the ovular/gynoecial tissues and clear identification of cell types can be logistically difficult and subject to interpretation. Cellular marker technologies have been available for the embryo sac, but have typically labeled only one cell type in a particular line. Here, we describe techniques for simultaneous labeling each cell type in the embryo sac and visualization methods for such in Arabidopsis, soybean, maize, and sorghum.
Brown midrib (bmr) mutants in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) and several other C4 grasses are associated with reduced lignin concentration, altered lignin composition and improved cell wall digestibility, which are desirable properties in biomass development for the emerging lignocellulosic biofuel industry. Studying bmr mutants has considerably expanded our understanding of the molecular basis underlying lignin biosynthesis and perturbation in grasses. In this study, we performed quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis, identified and cloned a novel cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase allele (SbCAD2) that has an 8-bp deletion in its 5'-untranslated region (UTR), conferring the spontaneous brown midrib trait and lignin reduction in the sorghum germplasm line PI 595743. Complementation test and gene expression analysis revealed that this non-coding region alteration is associated with the significantly reduced expression of the SbCAD2 in PI 595743 throughout its growth stages. Moreover, a promoter-GUS fusion study with transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants found that SbCAD2 promoter is functionally conserved, driving a specific expression pattern in lignifying vascular tissues. Taken together, our results revealed the genetic basis of bmr occurrence in this spontaneous sorghum mutant and suggested the regulatory region of the SbCAD2 can be a target site for optimizing lignin modification in sorghum and other bioenergy crops.
Domestication is known to strongly reduce genomic diversity through population bottlenecks. The resulting loss of polymorphism has been thoroughly documented in numerous cultivated species. Here we investigate the impact of domestication on the diversity of alternative transcript expressions using RNAseq data obtained on cultivated and wild sorghum accessions (ten accessions for each pool). In that aim, we focus on genes expressing two isoforms in sorghum and estimate the ratio between expression levels of those isoforms in each accession. Noticeably, for a given gene, one isoform can either be overexpressed or underexpressed in some wild accessions, whereas in the cultivated accessions, the balance between the two isoforms of the same gene appears to be much more homogenous. Indeed, we observe in sorghum significantly more variation in isoform expression balance among wild accessions than among domesticated accessions. The possibility exists that the loss of nucleotide diversity due to domestication could affect regulatory elements, controlling transcription or degradation of these isoforms. Impact on the isoform expression balance is discussed. As far as we know, this is the first time that the impact of domestication on transcript isoform balance has been studied at the genomic scale. This could pave the way towards the identification of key domestication genes with finely tuned isoform expressions in domesticated accessions while being highly variable in their wild relatives.
Among the wheat prolamins important for its end-use traits, α-gliadins are the most abundant, and are also a major cause of food-related allergies and intolerances. Previous studies of various wheat species estimated that between 25 and 150 α-gliadin genes reside in the Gli-2 locus regions. To better understand the evolution of this complex gene family, the DNA sequence of a 1.75-Mb genomic region spanning the Gli-2 locus was analyzed in the diploid grass, Aegilops tauschii, the ancestral source of D genome in hexaploid bread wheat. Comparison with orthologous regions from rice, sorghum, and Brachypodium revealed rapid and dynamic changes only occurring to the Ae. tauschii Gli-2 region, including insertions of high numbers of non-syntenic genes and a high rate of tandem gene duplications, the latter of which have given rise to 12 copies of α-gliadin genes clustered within a 550-kb region. Among them, five copies have undergone pseudogenization by various mutation events. Insights into the evolutionary relationship of the duplicated α-gliadin genes were obtained from their genomic organization, transcription patterns, transposable element insertions and phylogenetic analyses. An ancestral glutamate-like receptor (GLR) gene encoding putative amino acid sensor in all four grass species has duplicated only in Ae. tauschii and generated three more copies that are interspersed with the α-gliadin genes. Phylogenetic inference and different gene expression patterns support functional divergence of the Ae. tauschii GLR copies after duplication. Our results suggest that the duplicates of α-gliadin and GLR genes have likely taken different evolutionary paths; conservation for the former and neofunctionalization for the latter.
Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) is believed to play a role in plant growth, reproduction, and resistance to pathogens and pests. PPO causes browning of grains in cereals. In this study, genetic mapping of sorghum grain for phenol color reaction (PHR) was performed using a recombinant inbred line population. Only one locus was detected between SSR markers SM06072 and Xtxp176 on chromosome 6. Two linked orthologous genes (Sb06PPO1 and Sb06PPO2) within the mapped region were discovered and cloned. Transformation experiments using Nipponbare (a PHR negative rice cultivar) showed that Sb06PPO1 from LTR108 and two Sb06PPO2 alleles from both varieties could complement Nipponbare, whereas Sb06PPO1 from 654 could not. Subsequent quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) experiments showed that Sb06PPO1 and Sb06PPO2 functioned diversely, Sb06PPO1 was mainly expressed in young panicles before flowering. Sb06PPO2 was strongly expressed in flowering panicles, especially in hulls and branches at filling stage. Moreover, the expression of Sb06PPO1 was found to be significantly up-regulated by exogenous ABA and salt, whereas Sb06PPO2 was not changed significantly, further demonstrating functional differentiation between the two genes.
As a superfamily of transcription factors (TFs), the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins have been characterized functionally in many plants with a vital role in the regulation of diverse biological processes including growth, development, response to various stresses, and so on. However, no systemic analysis of the bHLH TFs has been reported in Brachypodium distachyon, an emerging model plant in Poaceae. A total of 146 bHLH TFs were identified in the Brachypodium distachyon genome and classified into 24 subfamilies. BdbHLHs in the same subfamily share similar protein motifs and gene structures. Gene duplication events showed a close relationship to rice, maize and sorghum, and segment duplications might play a key role in the expansion of this gene family. The amino acid sequence of the bHLH domains were quite conservative, especially Leu-27 and Leu-54. Based on the predicted binding activities, the BdbHLHs were divided into DNA binding and non-DNA binding types. According to the gene ontology (GO) analysis, BdbHLHs were speculated to function in homodimer or heterodimer manner. By integrating the available high throughput data in public database and results of quantitative RT-PCR, we found the expression profiles of BdbHLHs were different, implying their differentiated functions. One hundred fourty-six BdbHLHs were identified and their conserved domains, sequence features, phylogenetic relationship, chromosomal distribution, GO annotations, gene structures, gene duplication and expression profiles were investigated. Our findings lay a foundation for further evolutionary and functional elucidation of BdbHLH genes.
Cysteine-rich peptides (CRPs) are gaining recognition as regulators of cell-cell communication in plants. We identified 9556 CRPs in 12 plant species and analysed their evolutionary patterns. In most angiosperm plants, whole genome duplication and segmental duplication are the major factors driving the expansion of CRP family member genes, especially signal peptides. About 30% of the CRP genes were found clustered on the chromosomes, except in maize (Zea mays). Considerable collinearities between CRP genes between or within species reveal several syntenic regions on the chromosomes. Different subfamilies display diverse evolutionary rates, suggesting that these subfamilies are subjected to different selective pressures. CRPs in different duplication models also show contrasting evolutionary rates, although the underlying mechanism is unclear because of the complexity of gene evolution. The 1281 positively selected genes identified are probably generated within a certain period of time. While most of these belonged to maize and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), new CRP functions would also be expected. Up-regulation of 10 CRPs was observed in self-pollinated pear pistils and pollen tubes under self S-RNase treatments in vitro. The expression divergence between different CRP gene duplication types suggests that different duplication mechanisms affected the fate of the duplicated CRPs. Our analyses of the evolution of the CRP gene family provides a unique view of the evolution of this large gene family.
The expression of a barley alanine aminotransferase gene impacts agronomic outcomes in a C3 crop, wheat. The use of nitrogen-based fertilizers has become one of the major agronomic inputs in crop production systems. Strategies to enhance nitrogen assimilation and flux in planta are being pursued through the introduction of novel genetic alleles. Here an Agrobacterium-mediated approach was employed to introduce the alanine aminotransferase from barley (Hordeum vulgare), HvAlaAT, into wheat (Triticum aestivum) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), regulated by either constitutive or root preferred promoter elements. Plants harboring the transgenic HvAlaAT alleles displayed increased alanine aminotransferase (alt) activity. The enhanced alt activity impacted height, tillering and significantly boosted vegetative biomass relative to controls in wheat evaluated under hydroponic conditions, where the phenotypic outcome across these parameters varied relative to time of year study was conducted. Constitutive expression of HvAlaAT translated to elevation in wheat grain yield under field conditions. In sorghum, expression of HvAlaAT enhanced enzymatic activity, but no changes in phenotypic outcomes were observed. Taken together these results suggest that positive agronomic outcomes can be achieved through enhanced alt activity in a C3 crop, wheat. However, the variability observed across experiments under greenhouse conditions implies the phenotypic outcomes imparted by the HvAlaAT allele in wheat may be impacted by environment.
The Mediator complex, is an essential component of the RNA polymerase II general transcriptional machinery in eukaryotes. Mediator subunit 7 (MED7), a key subunit in the central module of this complex, plays an important role in gene transcriptional regulation. The present study isolated the full-length cDNA of the MED7 gene of sugarcane, hereby designated as ScMED7, which was characterized to harbor a 525-bp open reading frame that is predicted to encode a 174-amino acid protein with a molecular mass of 19.9 kDa and was localized to the nucleus and cytoplasm. ScMED7 contains one typical conserved domain of MED7 proteins and shares 98% homology with that from Sorghum bicolor (XP_002447862.1). ScMED7 was constitutively expressed, yet significantly higher in bud tissues. ScMED7 transcription was obviously induced by heavy metal (CdCl
Identifying interspecies changes in gene regulation, one of the two primary sources of phenotypic variation, is challenging on a genome-wide scale. The use of paired time-course data on cold-responsive gene expression in maize (
To investigate gene expression profiles of the thermotolerant yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain KKU-VN8, a potential high-ethanol producer, in response to various stresses during high-temperature ethanol fermentation using sweet sorghum juice (SSJ) under optimal conditions. The maximal ethanol concentration obtained by S. cerevisiae KKU-VN8 using SSJ at 40 °C was 66.6 g/l, with a productivity of 1.39 g/l/h and a theoretical ethanol yield of 81%. Quantitative RT-PCR assays were performed to investigate the gene expression profiles of S. cerevisiae KKU-VN8. Differential expression of genes encoding heat-shock proteins (HSP82, HSP104, SSA4), genes involved in trehalose metabolism (TPS1, TPS2, NTH1) and genes involved the glycolytic pathway (ADH1, ADH2, CDC19) at various time points during fermentation was observed. The expression levels of HSP82, HSP104, SSA4, ADH1 and CDC19 were significantly higher than those of the controls (10.2-, 4-, 8-, 8.9- and 5.9-fold higher, respectively). In contrast, the expression levels of TPS1, TPS2, NTH1 and ADH2 were approx. 2-fold less than those of the controls. The highly expressed genes encoding heat-shock proteins, HSP82 and SSA4, potentially play an important role in helping S. cerevisiae KKU-VN8 cope with various stresses that occur during high-temperature fermentation, leading to higher ethanol production efficiency.
The AGPase large subunit (shrunken-2) promoter was demonstrated to be active in the placentochalaza and endosperm of developing grain as well as the root tips in transgenic sorghum. The temporal and spatial expression patterns of the Sorghum bicolor Shrunken-2 (Sh2) promoter were evaluated using the green fluorescence protein reporter gene (gfp) in transgenic sorghum, within the context of upregulating starch biosynthesis in the developing grain. GFP fluorescence was analysed throughout development in various tissue types using confocal laser scanning microscopy techniques. Sh2 promoter activity was first detected in the placentochalaza region of the developing caryopsis and apoplasm adjacent to the nucellar epidermis at 7 days post anthesis (dpa) where fluorescence remained relatively constant until 17 dpa. Fluorescence in this region weakened by 20 dpa and disappeared by 25 dpa. Expression was also detected in the developing endosperm, but not until 12 dpa, continuing until 25 dpa. Whilst the endosperm expression was expected, the fluorescence detected in the placentochalaza was completely unexpected. Although transcript presence does not mean the resulting biochemistry is also present, these preliminary findings may suggest alternate spatial activity of ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase prior to uptake by the developing grain. Sh2 promoter activity was also unexpectedly detected in the root tips at all developmental time points. Sh2 promoter activity was not detected in any reproductive floral tissue (both pre and post anthesis) or in pollen. Similarly, no expression was detected in leaf tissue at any stage.
The Natural Resistance Associated Macrophage Protein (Nramp) members play diverse roles in metal transport in plants. Recent studies have showed that OsNrat1 (OsNramp4) encodes an Al transporter, which is required for rice Al tolerance. In this study, we functionally characterized a Nramp member in sorghum, SbNrat1, which is homologous to OsNrat1 with 88% identity. SbNrat1 was expressed in both roots and shoots, and its expression was not induced by Al treatment. When expressed in yeast, SbNrat1 transports trivalent Al ion, but not Mn and Cd. Furthermore, introduction of SbNrat1 into the rice mutant osnrat1 can rescue its sensitivity to Al. However, no correlation between Al tolerance and the expression level of SbNrat1 was found in thirteen sorghum cultivars tested. These results indicate that SbNrat1 functions as an Al transporter that is possibly involved in basic Al tolerance in sorghum.
Cadmium (Cd) is a widespread soil contaminant threatening human health. As an ideal energy plant, sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) has great potential in phytoremediation of Cd-polluted soils, although the molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. In this study, key factors responsible for differential Cd accumulation between two contrasting sweet sorghum genotypes (high-Cd accumulation one H18, and low-Cd accumulation one L69) were investigated. H18 exhibited a much higher ability of Cd uptake and translocation than L69. Furthermore, Cd uptake through symplasmic pathway and Cd concentrations in xylem sap were both higher in H18 than those in L69. Root anatomy observation found the endodermal apoplasmic barriers were much stronger in L69, which may restrict the Cd loading into xylem. The molecular mechanisms underlying these morpho-physiological traits were further dissected by comparative transcriptome analysis. Many genes involved in cell wall modification and heavy metal transport were found to be Cd-responsive DEGs and/or DEGs between these two genotypes. KEGG pathway analysis found phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway was over-represented, indicating this pathway may play important roles in differential Cd accumulation between two genotypes. Based on these results, a schematic representation of main processes involved in differential Cd uptake and translocation in H18 and L69 is proposed, which suggests that higher Cd accumulation in H18 depends on a multilevel coordination of efficient Cd uptake and transport, including efficient root uptake and xylem loading, less root cell wall binding, and weaker endodermal apoplasmic barriers.
A new epicuticular wax (bloom) locus has been identified and fine mapped to the 207.89 kb genomic region on chromosome 1. A putative candidate gene, Sobic.001G269200, annotated as GDSL-like lipase/acylhydrolase, is proposed as the most probable candidate gene involved in bloom synthesis/deposition. Deposition of epicuticular wax on plant aerial surface is one strategy that plants adapt to reduce non-transpiration water loss. Epicuticular wax (bloom)-less mutants in sorghum with their glossy phenotypes exhibit changes in the accumulation of epicuticular wax on leaf and culm surfaces. We report molecular mapping of a new sorghum locus, bloomless mutant (bm39), involved in epicuticular wax biosynthesis in sorghum. Inheritance studies involving a profusely bloom parent (BTx623) and a spontaneous bloomless mutant (RS647) indicated that the parents differed in a single gene for bloom synthesis. Bloomless was recessive to bloom deposition. Genetic mapping involving F
Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) detected in one mapping population may not be detected in other mapping populations at all the time. Therefore, before being used for marker assisted breeding, QTLs need to be validated in different environments and/or genetic backgrounds to rule out statistical anomalies. In this regard, we mapped the QTLs controlling various agronomic traits in a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population in response to Nitrogen (N) stress and validated these with the reported QTLs in our earlier study to find the stable and consistent QTLs across populations. Also, with Illumina RNA-sequencing we checked the differential expression of gene (DEG) transcripts between parents and pools of RILs with high and low nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) and overlaid these DEGs on to the common validated QTLs to find candidate genes associated with N-stress tolerance in sorghum. An F The validated QTLs among different mapping populations would be the most reliable and stable QTLs across germplasm. The DEG transcripts found in the validated QTL regions will serve as future candidate genes for enhancing NUE in sorghum using molecular approaches.
Discriminatory co-expression of maize BBM and WUS transcriptional factor genes promoted somatic embryogenesis and efficient Agrobacterium -mediated transformation of recalcitrant maize inbred B73 and sorghum P898012 genotypes without use of a selectable marker gene. The use of morphogenic regulators to overcome barriers in plant transformation is a revolutionary breakthrough for basic plant science and crop applications. Current standard plant transformation systems are bottlenecks for genetic, genomic, and crop improvement studies. We investigated the differential use of co-expression of maize transcription factors BABY BOOM and WUSCHEL2 coupled with a desiccation inducible CRE/lox excision system to enable regeneration of stable transgenic recalcitrant maize inbred B73 and sorghum P898012 without a chemical selectable marker. The PHP78891 expression cassette contains CRE driven by the drought inducible maize RAB17
Bacterial leaf streak of corn (Zea mays) recently reached epidemic levels in three corn-growing states, and has been detected in another six states in the central United States. Xanthomonas vasicola was identified as the causal agent of this disease. A multilocus sequence alignment of six housekeeping genes and comparison of average nucleotide identity from draft genome sequence were used to confirm phylogenetic relationships and classification of this bacteria relative to other X. vasicola strains. X. vasicola isolates from Nebraska and South Africa were highly virulent on corn and sugarcane and less virulent on sorghum but caused water-soaking symptoms that are typical of X. vasicola infection on the leaves of all three hosts. Based on host range and phylogenetic comparison, we propose the taxonomic designation of this organism to X. vasicola pv. vasculorum ( Cobb 1894 ) comb. nov. Polymerase chain reaction-based diagnostic assays were developed that distinguish X. vasicola pv. vasculorum and X. vasicola pv. holcicola from each other and from other Xanthomonas spp.
Members of the basic leucine zipper family, as bZIP19, are considered to be essential regulators of the adaptation to zinc deficiency. Knowing that this gene as well as its targets are conserved in the plant kingdom, we followed an in silico approach to identify and characterize the bzip19 gene in cereals. Through BLASTp in Phytozome database, 33 bzip19 genes were identified on the genomes of Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor, Zea mays, Glycine max, Triticum aestivum, and Brachypodium distachyon. The analysis of conserved motifs and bZIP domains was performed using MEME and PFAM databases. In 25 of these genes, CysHis-motifs at the basic N-terminal region were found. This motif is conserved in group bZIP and suggested to play a role as a Zn-sensor. Regarding their phylogeny, it was possible to infer orthologous groups and explore the evolutionary relationship between these BZIP19 proteins. Data mining allowed us to select eight putative orthologous whose expression profile was analyzed under stress conditions in the Genevestigator platform. The comparison between the expression profiles of these eight putative orthologous and the original Arabidopsis bzip19 also seems to indicate conserved transcriptional regulation. Thus, considering that modified expression of bZIP19 genes has already been confirmed as an efficient tool to improve Arabidopsis tolerance to Zn deficiency, and that these new bZIP orthologous have a high level of conservation when compared to the original bZIP19 sequence, they can be useful for the development of tolerant crops enabling plants to grow in areas of low zinc bioavailability.
Bioenergy sorghum accumulates 75% of shoot biomass in stem internodes. Grass stem internodes are formed during vegetative growth and elongate in response to developmental and environmental signals. To identify genes and molecular mechanisms that modulate the extent of internode growth, we conducted microscopic and transcriptomic analyses of four successive sub-apical vegetative internodes representing different stages of internode development of the bioenergy sorghum genotype R.07020. Stem internodes of sorghum genotype R.07020 are formed during the vegetative phase and their length is enhanced by environmental signals such as shade and floral induction in short days. During vegetative growth, the first visible and youngest sub-apical internode was ~0.7 cm in length, whereas the fourth fully expanded internode was ~5 cm in length. Microscopic analyses revealed that all internode tissue types including pith parenchyma and vascular bundles are present in the four successive internodes. Growth in the first two sub-apical internodes occurred primarily through an increase in cell number consistent with expression of genes involved in the cell cycle and DNA replication. Growth of the 3rd internode was associated with an increase in cell length and growth cessation in the 4th internode was associated with up-regulation of genes involved in secondary cell wall deposition. The expression of genes involved in hormone metabolism and signaling indicates that GA, BR, and CK activity decreased while ethylene, ABA, and JA increased in the 3rd/4th internodes. While the level of auxin appears to be increasing as indicated by the up-regulation of ARFs, down-regulation of TIR during development indicates that auxin signaling is also modified. The expression patterns of transcription factors are closely associated with their role during the development of the vegetative internodes. Microscopic and transcriptome analyses of four successive sub-apical internodes characterized the developmental progression of vegetative stem internodes from initiation through full elongation in the sorghum genotype R.07020. Transcriptome profiling indicates that dynamic variation in the levels and action of GA, CK, IAA, BR, ethylene, ABA, and JA modulate gene expression and growth during internode growth and development. This study provides detailed microscopic and transcriptomic data useful for identifying genes and molecular pathways regulating internode elongation in response to various developmental and environmental signals.
Invertases (INVs) are key enzymes regulating sucrose metabolism and are here revealed to be involved in responses to environmental stress in plants. To date, individual members of the invertase gene family and their expression patterns are unknown in sugarcane due to its complex genome despite their significance in sucrose metabolism. In this study, based on comparative genomics, eleven cDNA and twelve DNA sequences belonging to 14 non-redundant members of the invertase gene family were successfully cloned from sugarcane. A comprehensive analysis of the invertase gene family was carried out, including gene structures, phylogenetic relationships, functional domains, conserved motifs of proteins. The results revealed that the 14 invertase members from sugarcane could be clustered into three subfamilies, including 6 neutral/alkaline invertases (ShN/AINVs), and 8 acid invertases (ShAINVs). Faster divergence occurred in acid INVs than in neutral/alkaline INVs after the split of sugarcane and sorghum. At least a one-time gene duplication event was observed to have occurred in the four groups of acid INVs, whereas ShN/AINV1 and ShN/AINV2 in the β8 lineage were revealed to be the most recently duplicated genes among their paralogous genes in the β group of N/AINVs. Furthermore, comprehensive expression analysis of these genes was performed in sugarcane seedlings subjected to five abiotic stresses (drought, low temperature, glucose, fructose, and sucrose) using Quantitative Real-time PCR. The results suggested a functional divergence of INVs and their potential role in response to the five different treatments. Enzymatic activity in sugarcane seedlings was detected under five abiotic stresses treatments, and showed that the activities of all INVs were significantly inhibited in response to five different abiotic stresses, and that the neutral/alkaline INVs played a more prominent role in abiotic stresses than the acid INVs. In this study, we determined the INV gene family members of sugarcane by PCR cloning using sorghum as a reference, providing the first study of the INV gene family in sugarcane. Combining existing INV gene data from 7 plants with a comparative approach including a series of comprehensive analyses to isolate and identify INV gene family members proved to be highly successful. Moreover, the expression levels of INV genes and the variation of enzymatic activities associated with drought, low temperature, glucose, fructose, and sucrose are reported in sugarcane for the first time. The results offered useful foundation and framework for future research for understanding the physiological roles of INVs for sucrose accumulation in sugarcane.
A pathogenesis-related gene, ScPR10 , was isolated from sugarcane and its bio-function was characterized, demonstrating that ScPR10 was involved in plant defense responses to Sporisorium scitamineum , SrMV, SA, and MeJA stresses. Plant fungal and viral diseases are the major concerns in sugarcane industry. Many anti-fungal and antivirus components, including pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins, have been identified. The pathogenesis-related protein 10 (PR10) is the dominant group in PR families, involved in the plant defense mechanism. In this study, ScPR10 (GenBank Acc. No. KT887884), a 701-bp-length PR10 gene with a 483 bp-length open reading frame, was isolated from sugarcane. Its transient expression in the leaves of Nicotiana benthamiana indicated that the function role of ScPR10 is likely in the nucleus, and it increased the level of H
Seeds serve as a great model to study plant responses to drought stress, which is largely mediated by abscisic acid (ABA). The ABA responsive element (ABRE) is a key cis-regulatory element in ABA signalling. However, its consensus sequence (ACGTG(G/T)C) is present in the promoters of only about 40% of ABA-induced genes in rice aleurone cells, suggesting other ABREs may exist. To identify novel ABREs, RNA sequencing was performed on aleurone cells of rice seeds treated with 20 μM ABA. Gibbs sampling was used to identify enriched elements, and particle bombardment-mediated transient expression studies were performed to verify the function. Gene ontology analysis was performed to predict the roles of genes containing the novel ABREs. This study revealed 2443 ABA-inducible genes and a novel ABRE, designated as ABREN, which was experimentally verified to mediate ABA signalling in rice aleurone cells. Many of the ABREN-containing genes are predicted to be involved in stress responses and transcription. Analysis of other species suggests that the ABREN may be monocot specific. This study also revealed interesting expression patterns of genes involved in ABA metabolism and signalling. Collectively, this study advanced our understanding of diverse cis-regulatory sequences and the transcriptomes underlying ABA responses in rice aleurone cells.
Plant growth and productivity are strongly affected by limited water availability in drought prone environments. The current climate change scenario, characterized by long periods without precipitations followed by short but intense rainfall, forces plants to implement different strategies to cope with drought stress. Understanding how plants use water during periods of limited water availability is of primary importance to identify and select the best adapted genotypes to a certain environment. Two sorghum genotypes IS22330 and IS20351, previously characterized as drought tolerant and drought sensitive genotypes, were subjected to progressive drought stress through a dry-down experiment. A whole-canopy multi-chamber system was used to determine the
Waterlogging is a significant environmental constraint to crop production, and a better understanding of plant responses is critical for the improvement of crop tolerance to waterlogged soils. Aquaporins (AQPs) are a class of channel-forming proteins that play an important role in water transport in plants. This study aimed to examine the regulation of AQP genes under waterlogging stress and to characterize the genetic variability of AQP genes in sorghum (
Fatty alcohols in the C12-C18 range are used in personal care products, lubricants, and potentially biofuels. These compounds can be produced from the fatty acid pathway by a fatty acid reductase (FAR), yet yields from the preferred industrial host Saccharomyces cerevisiae remain under 2% of the theoretical maximum from glucose. Here we improved titer and yield of fatty alcohols using an approach involving quantitative analysis of protein levels and metabolic flux, engineering enzyme level and localization, pull-push-block engineering of carbon flux, and cofactor balancing. We compared four heterologous FARs, finding highest activity and endoplasmic reticulum localization from a Mus musculus FAR. After screening an additional twenty-one single-gene edits, we identified increasing FAR expression; deleting competing reactions encoded by DGA1, HFD1, and ADH6; overexpressing a mutant acetyl-CoA carboxylase; limiting NADPH and carbon usage by the glutamate dehydrogenase encoded by GDH1; and overexpressing the Δ9-desaturase encoded by OLE1 as successful strategies to improve titer. Our final strain produced 1.2g/L fatty alcohols in shake flasks, and 6.0g/L in fed-batch fermentation, corresponding to ~ 20% of the maximum theoretical yield from glucose, the highest titers and yields reported to date in S. cerevisiae. We further demonstrate high-level production from lignocellulosic feedstocks derived from ionic-liquid treated switchgrass and sorghum, reaching 0.7g/L in shake flasks. Altogether, our work represents progress towards efficient and renewable microbial production of fatty acid-derived products.
Sugarcane production is strongly influenced by drought, which is a limiting factor for agricultural productivity in the world. In this study, the gene expression profiles obtained by de novo assembly of the leaf transcriptome of two sugarcane cultivars that differ in their physiological response to water deficit were evaluated by the RNA-Seq method: drought-tolerant cultivar (SP81-3250) and drought-sensitive cultivar (RB855453). For this purpose, plants were grown in a greenhouse for 60 days and were then submitted to three treatments: control (-0.01 to -0.015 MPa), moderate water deficit (-0.05 to -0.055 MPa), and severe water deficit (-0.075 to -0.08 MPa). The plants were evaluated 30, 60, and 90 days after the beginning of treatment. Sequencing on an Illumina platform (RNA-Seq) generated more than one billion sequences, resulting in 177,509 and 185,153 transcripts for the tolerant and sensitive cultivar, respectively. These transcripts were aligned with sequences from Saccharum spp, Sorghum bicolor, Miscanthus giganteus, and Arabidopsis thaliana available in public databases. The differentially expressed genes detected during the prolonged period of water deficit permit to increase our understanding of the molecular patterns involved in the physiological response of the two cultivars. The tolerant cultivar differentially expressed a larger number of genes at 90 days, while in the sensitive cultivar the number of differentially expressed genes was higher in 30 days. Both cultivars perceived the lack of water, but the tolerant cultivar responded more slowly than the sensitive cultivar. The latter requires rapid activation of different water-deficit stress response mechanisms for its survival. This rapid activation of metabolic pathways in response to water stress does not appear to be the key mechanism of drought tolerance in sugarcane. There is still much to clarify on the molecular and physiological pattern of plants in response to drought.
Identifying and characterizing alternative splicing (AS) enables our understanding of the biological role of transcript isoform diversity. This study describes the use of publicly available RNA-Seq data to identify and characterize the global diversity of AS isoforms in maize using the inbred lines B73 and Mo17, and a related species, sorghum. Identification and characterization of AS within maize tissues revealed that genes expressed in seed exhibit the largest differential AS relative to other tissues examined. Additionally, differences in AS between the two genotypes B73 and Mo17 are greatest within genes expressed in seed. We demonstrate that changes in the level of alternatively spliced transcripts (intron retention and exon skipping) do not solely reflect differences in total transcript abundance, and we present evidence that intron retention may act to fine-tune gene expression across seed development stages. Furthermore, we have identified temperature sensitive AS in maize and demonstrate that drought-induced changes in AS involve distinct sets of genes in reproductive and vegetative tissues. Examining our identified AS isoforms within B73 × Mo17 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) identified splicing QTL (sQTL). The 43.3% of
Despite the economic importance of sugarcane in sugar and bioenergy production, there is not yet a reference genome available. Most of the sugarcane transcriptomic studies have been based on Saccharum officinarum gene indices (SoGI), expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and de novo assembled transcript contigs from short-reads; hence knowledge of the sugarcane transcriptome is limited in relation to transcript length and number of transcript isoforms. The sugarcane transcriptome was sequenced using PacBio isoform sequencing (Iso-Seq) of a pooled RNA sample derived from leaf, internode and root tissues, of different developmental stages, from 22 varieties, to explore the potential for capturing full-length transcript isoforms. A total of 107,598 unique transcript isoforms were obtained, representing about 71% of the total number of predicted sugarcane genes. The majority of this dataset (92%) matched the plant protein database, while just over 2% was novel transcripts, and over 2% was putative long non-coding RNAs. About 56% and 23% of total sequences were annotated against the gene ontology and KEGG pathway databases, respectively. Comparison with de novo contigs from Illumina RNA-Sequencing (RNA-Seq) of the internode samples from the same experiment and public databases showed that the Iso-Seq method recovered more full-length transcript isoforms, had a higher N50 and average length of largest 1,000 proteins; whereas a greater representation of the gene content and RNA diversity was captured in RNA-Seq. Only 62% of PacBio transcript isoforms matched 67% of de novo contigs, while the non-matched proportions were attributed to the inclusion of leaf/root tissues and the normalization in PacBio, and the representation of more gene content and RNA classes in the de novo assembly, respectively. About 69% of PacBio transcript isoforms and 41% of de novo contigs aligned with the sorghum genome, indicating the high conservation of orthologs in the genic regions of the two genomes. The transcriptome dataset should contribute to improved sugarcane gene models and sugarcane protein predictions; and will serve as a reference database for analysis of transcript expression in sugarcane.
Laccase is a key enzyme in plant lignin biosynthesis as it catalyzes the final step of monolignols polymerization. Sweet sorghum [
The B-box proteins play key roles in plant development. The double B-box (DBB) family is one of the subfamily of the B-box family, with two B-box domains and without a CCT domain. In this study, 12 maize double B-box genes (ZmDBBs) were identified through a genome-wide survey. Phylogenetic analysis of DBB proteins from maize, rice, Sorghum bicolor, Arabidopsis, and poplar classified them into five major clades. Gene duplication analysis indicated that segmental duplications made a large contribution to the expansion of ZmDBBs. Furthermore, a large number of cis-acting regulatory elements related to plant development, response to light and phytohormone were identified in the promoter regions of the ZmDBB genes. The expression patterns of the ZmDBB genes in various tissues and different developmental stages demonstrated that ZmDBBs might play essential roles in plant development, and some ZmDBB genes might have unique function in specific developmental stages. In addition, several ZmDBB genes showed diurnal expression pattern. The expression levels of some ZmDBB genes changed significantly under light/dark treatment conditions and phytohormone treatments, implying that they might participate in light signaling pathway and hormone signaling. Our results will provide new information to better understand the complexity of the DBB gene family in maize.
Anthurium amnicola Dressler possesses a number of desirable and novel ornamental traits such as a purple-colored upright spathe, profuse flowering, and floral scent, some of which have been introgressed into modern Anthurium cultivars. As a first step in identifying genes associated with these traits, the transcriptome from root, leaf, spathe, and spadix from an accession of A. amnicola was assembled, resulting in 28,019 putative transcripts representing 19,458 unigenes. Genes involved in pigmentation, including those for the metabolism of chlorophyll and the biosynthesis of carotenoids, phenylpropanoids, and flavonoids were identified. The expression levels of one MYB transcription factor was highly correlated with naringenin 3-dioxygenase (F3H) and dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) in leaves, whereas a bHLH transcription factor was highly correlated with flavonoid 3'-monooxygenase (F3'H) and a DFR in spathes, suggesting that these two transcription factors might regulate flavonoid and anthocyanin synthesis in A. amnicola. Gene sequence and expression data from four major organs of A. amnicola provide novel basal information for understanding the genetic bases of ornamental traits and the determinants and evolution of form and function in the Araceae.
Sucrose produced in source leaves is loaded into collection phloem, transported to sinks and unloaded for utilization or storage. In the context of long distance transport, sucrose transporters (SUTs) can function to load sucrose into collection phloem, retrieve leaked sucrose during long distance transport, and load sucrose into sink cells. SUTs have also been proposed to efflux sucrose under conditions of low proton motive force and low extracellular sucrose. The involvement of sucrose transporters in phloem unloading in a representative monocot stem, Sorghum bicolor, was evaluated during different stages of internode development. Transcript levels and functional properties of selected key transporters were measured, with both cellular and subcellular localization determined.
SbAP37 transcription factor contributes to a combination of abiotic stresses when applied simultaneously in rice. It modulates a plethora of proteins that might regulate the downstream pathways to impart salt stress tolerance. APETALA type of transcription factor was isolated from Sorghum bicolor (SbAP37), overexpressed in rice using a salt inducible abscisic acid 2 (ABA2) promoter through Agrobacterium tumefaciens following in planta method. Transgenics were confirmed by PCR amplification of SbAP37, hygromycin phosphotransferase (hptII) marker and ABA2 promoter and DNA blot analysis. Plants were exposed to 150 mM NaCl coupled with high day/night 36 ± 2/25 ± 2 °C temperatures and also drought stress by withholding water for 1-week separately at the booting stage. SbAP37 expression was 2.8- to 4.7-folds higher in transgenic leaf under salt, but 1.8- to 3.3-folds higher in roots under drought stress. Native gene expression analysis showed that it is expressed more in stem than in roots and leaves under 150 mM NaCl and 6% PEG stress. In the present study, proteomic analysis of transgenics exposed to 150 mM NaCl coupled with elevated temperatures was taken up using quadrupole time-of-flight (Q-TOF) mass spectrometry (MS). The leaf proteome revealed 11 down regulated, 26 upregulated, 101 common (shared), 193 newly synthesized proteins in transgenics besides 368 proteins in untransformed plants. Some of these protein sets appeared different and unique to combined stresses. Our results suggest that the SbAP37 has the potential to improve combined stress tolerance without causing undesirable phenotypic characters when used under the influence of ABA2 promoter.
Achromobacter insolitus is a newly described, Gram-negative, small (1-2 mm long) and coccoid pathogen that has been isolated from leg wound. Due to its potential threat to human beings, the type strain of this species LMG 6003T was completely sequenced in this study. The genomic analysis revealed that the genome of LMG 6003T consists of one circular DNA chromosome of 6 492 697 bp with a GC content of 65.10%. The entire genome contains 6208 predicted coding genes, 61 tRNAs and 13 rRNA genes. Comparative genome analysis between LMG 6003T and another selected 10 sequenced Achromobacter revealed that 725 genes only exist in LMG 6003T. In particular, these genes include several important pathogenic-related genes such as Type IV prepilin peptidase (TadV/CpaA), Type VI secretion lipoprotein (VasD) and type 1 fimbriae major subunit (FimA). Genomic island (GI) analysis also suggests the existence of GIs in LMG 6003T. All these results strongly suggest the unique genomic features in LMG 6003T against other Achromobacter species. This report will provide us with an extended understanding of A. insolitus at the genomic level and would be helpful for understanding the evolution of the Achromobacter genus.
We have demonstrated that polyphenol-rich sorghum bran diets alter fecal microbiota; however, little is known regarding their effect on colon inflammation. Our aim was to characterize the effect of sorghum bran diets on intestinal homeostasis during dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (
Imposition of different biotic and abiotic stress conditions results in an increase in intracellular levels of Ca
The ability of the wheat Lr34 multipathogen resistance gene (Lr34res) to function across a wide taxonomic boundary was investigated in transgenic Sorghum bicolor. Increased resistance to sorghum rust and anthracnose disease symptoms following infection with the biotrophic pathogen Puccinia purpurea and the hemibiotroph Colletotrichum sublineolum, respectively, occurred in transgenic plants expressing the Lr34res ABC transporter. Transgenic sorghum lines that highly expressed the wheat Lr34res gene exhibited immunity to sorghum rust compared to the low-expressing single copy Lr34res genotype that conferred partial resistance. Pathogen-induced pigmentation mediated by flavonoid phytoalexins was evident on transgenic sorghum leaves following P. purpurea infection within 24-72 h, which paralleled Lr34res gene expression. Elevated expression of flavone synthase II, flavanone 4-reductase and dihydroflavonol reductase genes which control the biosynthesis of flavonoid phytoalexins characterized the highly expressing Lr34res transgenic lines 24-h post-inoculation with P. purpurea. Metabolite analysis of mesocotyls infected with C. sublineolum showed increased levels of 3-deoxyanthocyanidin metabolites were associated with Lr34res expression, concomitant with reduced symptoms of anthracnose.
Abiotic stress and climate change is the major concern for plant growth and crop yield. Abiotic stresses lead to enhanced accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) consequently resulting in cellular damage and major losses in crop yield. One of the major scavengers of ROS is ascorbate (AA) which acts as first line of defense against external oxidants. An enzyme named ascorbate oxidase (AAO) is known to oxidize AA and deleteriously affect the plant system in response to stress. Genome-wide analysis of AAO gene family has led to the identification of five, three, seven, four, and six
Stem parenchyma is a major cell type that serves key metabolic functions for the plant especially in large grasses, such as sugarcane and sweet sorghum, where it serves to store sucrose or other products of photosynthesis. It is therefore desirable to understand the metabolism of this cell type as well as the mechanisms by which it provides its function for the rest of the plant. Ultimately, this information can be used to selectively manipulate this cell type in a controlled manner to achieve crop improvement. In this study, we show that Brachypodium distachyon is a useful model system for stem pith parenchyma biology. Brachypodium can be grown under condition where it resembles the growth patterns of important crops in that it produces large amounts of stem material with the lower leaves senescing and with significant stores of photosynthate located in the stem parenchyma cell types. We further characterize stem plastid morphology as a function of tissue types, as this organelle is central for a number of metabolic pathways, and quantify gene expression for the four main classes of starch biosynthetic genes. Notably, we find several of these genes differentially regulated between stem and leaf. These studies show, consistent with other grasses, that the stem functions as a specialized storage compartment in Brachypodium.
Sugarcane is an important sugar crop contributing up to about 80% of the world sugar production. Efforts to characterize the genes involved in sugar metabolism at the molecular level are growing since increasing sugar content is a major goal in the breeding of new sugarcane varieties. Fructokinases (FRK) are the main fructose phosphorylating enzymes with high substrate specificity and affinity. In this study, by combining comparative genomics approaches with BAC resources, seven fructokinase genes were identified in S. spontaneum. Phylogenetic analysis based on representative monocotyledon and dicotyledon plant species suggested that the FRK gene family is ancient and its evolutionary history can be traced in duplicated descending order: SsFRK4, SsFRK6/SsFRK7,SsFRK5, SsFRK3 and SsFRK1/SsFRK2. Among the close orthologs, the number and position of exons in FRKs were conserved; in contrast, the size of introns varied among the paralogous FRKs in Saccharum. Genomic constraints were analyzed within the gene alleles and between S. spontaneum and Sorghum bicolor, and gene expression analysis was performed under drought stress and with exogenous applications of plant hormones. FRK1, which was under strong functional constraint selection, was conserved among the gene allelic haplotypes, and displayed dominant expression levels among the gene families in the control conditions, suggesting that FRK1 plays a major role in the phosphorylation of fructose. FRK3 and FRK5 were dramatically induced under drought stress, and FRK5 was also found to increase its expression levels in the mature stage of Saccharum. Similarly, FRK3 and FRK5 were induced in response to drought stress in Saccharum. FRK2 and FRK7 displayed lower expression levels than the other FRK family members; FRK2 was under strong genomic selection constraints whereas FRK7 was under neutral selection. FRK7 may have become functionally redundant in Saccharum through pseudogenization. FRK4 and FRK6 shared the most similar expression pattern: FRK4 was revealed to have higher expression levels in mature tissues than in premature tissues of Saccharum, and FRK6 presented a slight increase under drought stress. Our study presents a comprehensive genomic study of the entire FRK gene family in Saccharum, providing the foundations for approaches to characterize the molecular mechanism regulated by the SsFRK family in sugarcane.
Aphid infestation of switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) has the potential to reduce yields and biomass quality. Although switchgrass-greenbug (Schizaphis graminum; GB) interactions have been studied at the whole plant level, little information is available on plant defense responses at the molecular level. The global transcriptomic response of switchgrass cv Summer to GB was monitored by RNA-Seq in infested and control (uninfested) plants harvested at 5, 10, and 15 days after infestation (DAI). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in infested plants were analyzed relative to control uninfested plants at each time point. DEGs in GB-infested plants induced by 5-DAI included an upregulation of reactive burst oxidases and several cell wall receptors. Expression changes in genes linked to redox metabolism, cell wall structure, and hormone biosynthesis were also observed by 5-DAI. At 10-DAI, network analysis indicated a massive upregulation of defense-associated genes, including NAC, WRKY, and MYB classes of transcription factors and potential ancillary signaling molecules such as leucine aminopeptidases. Molecular evidence for loss of chloroplastic functions was also detected at this time point. Supporting these molecular changes, chlorophyll content was significantly decreased, and ROS levels were elevated in infested plants 10-DAI. Total peroxidase and laccase activities were elevated in infested plants at 10-DAI relative to control uninfested plants. The net result appeared to be a broad scale defensive response that led to an apparent reduction in C and N assimilation and a potential redirection of nutrients away from GB and towards the production of defensive compounds, such as pipecolic acid, chlorogenic acid, and trehalose by 10-DAI. By 15-DAI, evidence of recovery in primary metabolism was noted based on transcript abundances for genes associated with carbon, nitrogen, and nutrient assimilation. Extensive remodeling of the plant transcriptome and the production of ROS and several defensive metabolites in an upland switchgrass cultivar were observed in response to GB feeding. The early loss and apparent recovery in primary metabolism by 15-DAI would suggest that these transcriptional changes in later stages of GB infestation could underlie the recovery response categorized for this switchgrass cultivar. These results can be exploited to develop switchgrass lines with more durable resistance to GB and potentially other aphids.
Seminal roots of maize are pivotal for early seedling establishment. The maize mutant rootless concerning crown and seminal roots (rtcs) is defective in seminal root initiation during embryogenesis. In this study, the transcriptomes of wild-type and rtcs embryos were analyzed by RNA-Seq based on histological results at three stages of seminal root primordia formation. Hierarchical clustering highlighted that samples of each genotype grouped together along development. Determination of their gene activity status revealed hundreds of genes specifically transcribed in wild-type or rtcs embryos, while K-mean clustering revealed changes in gene expression dynamics between wild-type and rtcs during embryo development. Pairwise comparisons of rtcs and wild-type embryo transcriptomes identified 131 transcription factors among 3526 differentially expressed genes [false discovery rate (FDR) <5% and |log2Fc|≥1]. Among those, functional annotation highlighted genes involved in cell cycle control and phytohormone action, particularly auxin signaling. Moreover, in silico promoter analyses identified putative RTCS target genes associated with transcription factor action and hormone metabolism and signaling. Significantly, non-syntenic genes that emerged after the separation of maize and sorghum were over-represented among genes displaying RTCS-dependent expression during seminal root primordia formation. This might suggest that these non-syntenic genes came under the transcriptional control of the syntenic gene rtcs during seminal root evolution. Taken together, this study provides first insights into the molecular framework underlying seminal root initiation in maize and provides a starting point for further investigations of the molecular networks underlying RTCS-dependent seminal root initiation.
Plant secondary cell walls constitute the majority of plant biomass. They are predominantly found in xylem cells, which are derived from vascular initials during vascularization. Little is known about these processes in grass species despite their emerging importance as biomass feedstocks. The targeted biofuel crop Sorghum bicolor has a sequenced and well-annotated genome, making it an ideal monocot model for addressing vascularization and biomass deposition. Here we generated tissue-specific transcriptome and DNA methylome data from sorghum shoots, roots and developing root vascular and nonvascular tissues. Many genes associated with vascular development in other species show enriched expression in developing vasculature. However, several transcription factor families varied in vascular expression in sorghum compared with Arabidopsis and maize. Furthermore, differential expression of genes associated with DNA methylation were identified between vascular and nonvascular tissues, implying that changes in DNA methylation are a feature of sorghum root vascularization, which we confirmed using tissue-specific DNA methylome data. Roots treated with a DNA methylation inhibitor also showed a significant decrease in root length. Tissues and organs can be discriminated based on their genomic methylation patterns and methylation context. Consequently, tissue-specific changes in DNA methylation are part of the normal developmental process.
Small Heat Shock Proteins (sHSPs)/HSP20 are molecular chaperones that protect plants by preventing protein aggregation during abiotic stress conditions, especially heat stress. Due to global climate change, high temperature is emerging as a major threat to wheat productivity. Thus, the identification of HSP20 and analysis of HSP transcriptional regulation under different abiotic stresses in wheat would help in understanding the role of these proteins in abiotic stress tolerance. We used sequences of known rice and Arabidopsis HSP20 HMM profiles as queries against publicly available wheat genome and wheat full length cDNA databases (TriFLDB) to identify the respective orthologues from wheat. 163 TaHSP20 (including 109 sHSP and 54 ACD) genes were identified and classified according to the sub-cellular localization and phylogenetic relationship with sequenced grass genomes (Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor, Zea mays, Brachypodium distachyon and Setaria italica). Spatio-temporal, biotic and abiotic stress-specific expression patterns in normalized RNA seq and wheat array datasets revealed constitutive as well as inductive responses of HSP20 in different tissues and developmental stages of wheat. Promoter analysis of TaHSP20 genes showed the presence of tissue-specific, biotic, abiotic, light-responsive, circadian and cell cycle-responsive cis-regulatory elements. 14 TaHSP20 family genes were under the regulation of 8 TamiRNA genes. The expression levels of twelve HSP20 genes were studied under abiotic stress conditions in the drought- and heat-tolerant wheat genotype C306. Of the 13 TaHSP20 genes, TaHSP16.9H-CI showed high constitutive expression with upregulation only under salt stress. Both heat and salt stresses upregulated the expression of TaHSP17.4-CI, TaHSP17.7A-CI, TaHSP19.1-CIII, TaACD20.0B-CII and TaACD20.6C-CIV, while TaHSP23.7-MTI was specifically induced only under heat stress. Our results showed that the identified TaHSP20 genes play an important role under different abiotic stress conditions. Thus, the results illustrate the complexity of the TaHSP20 gene family and its stress regulation in wheat, and suggest that sHSPs as attractive breeding targets for improvement of the heat tolerance of wheat.
An effective strategy for re-establishing K+ and Na+ homeostasis is a challenge for the improvement of plant performance in saline soil. Specifically, attempts to understand the mechanisms of Na+ extrusion from plant cells, the control of Na+ loading in the xylem and the partitioning of the accumulated Na+ between different plant organs are ongoing. Our goal was to provide insight into how an external nitrogen source affects Na+ accumulation in Sorghum bicolor under saline conditions. The NH4+ supply improved the salt tolerance of the plant by restricting Na+ accumulation and improving the K+/Na+ homeostasis in shoots, which was consistent with the high activity and expression of Na+/H+ antiporters and proton pumps in the plasma membrane and vacuoles in the roots, resulting in low Na+ loading in the xylem. Conversely, although NO3--grown plants had exclusion and sequestration mechanisms for Na+, these responses were not sufficient to reduce Na+ accumulation. In conclusion, NH4+ acts as an efficient signal to activate co-ordinately responses involved in the regulation of Na+ homeostasis in sorghum plants under salt stress, which leads to salt tolerance.
Cereals and legumes are traditionally consumed together in many cultures, and may provide complementary health benefits beyond what is known about improved indispensable amino acid intake. Here, we use an in vitro model of inflammatory pathways to investigate whether the different flavonoids in sorghum and cowpea could synergistically reduce inflammation. Interactive effect of combining apigenin and quercetin, as well as extracts (70% acetone, v/v) from a flavone-dominated white sorghum and flavonol-dominated white cowpea, against LPS-induced NF-κB and downstream cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8) gene and protein expression was evaluated using the CCD18Co colon myofibroblasts. Combination of apigenin and quercetin, and sorghum and cowpea extracts synergistically downregulated LPS-induced NF-κB gene and protein expression in a dose-dependent manner, with additive effect producing IC Combining the structurally related cereal flavones and legume flavonols elicit strong synergistic anti-inflammatory response in LPS-stimulated nonmalignant colonocytes, likely by targeting interdependent mechanisms.
Roots anchor plants to the soil and are essential for a successful plant growth and adaptation to the environment. Research on the primary root in the plant model system Arabidopsis thaliana has yielded important advances in the molecular and cellular understanding of root growth and development. Several studies have uncovered how the hormones brassinosteroids (BRs) control cell cycle and differentiation programs through different cell-specific signaling pathways that are key for root growth and development. Currently, an important challenge resides in the translation of the current knowledge on Arabidopsis roots into agronomically valuable species to improve the agricultural production and to meet the food security goals of the millennium. In this chapter, we characterize the primary root apex of the cereal Sorghum bicolor (L. Moench) (sorghum), analyze the physiological response of sorghum roots to BRs, and examine the phylogeny of the BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE1-like receptor family in Arabidopsis and its orthologous genes in sorghum. Overall, we support the use of sorghum as a suitable crop model species for the study of BR signaling in root growth and development. The methods presented enable any laboratory worldwide to use sorghum primary roots as a favorite organ for the study of growth and development in crops.
Silicate minerals are dominant soil components. Thus, plant roots are constantly exposed to silicic acid. High silicon intake, enabled by root silicon transporters, correlates with increased tolerance to many biotic and abiotic stresses. However, the underlying protection mechanisms are largely unknown. Here, we tested the hypothesis that silicon interacts with the plant hormones, and specifically, that silicic acid intake increases cytokinin biosynthesis. The reaction of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and Arabidopsis plants, modified to absorb high versus low amounts of silicon, to dark-induced senescence was monitored, by quantifying expression levels of genes along the senescence pathway and measuring tissue cytokinin levels. In both species, detached leaves with high silicon content senesced more slowly than leaves that were not exposed to silicic acid. Expression levels of genes along the senescence pathway suggested increased cytokinin biosynthesis with silicon exposure. Mass spectrometry measurements of cytokinin suggested a positive correlation between silicon exposure and active cytokinin concentrations. Our results indicate a similar reaction to silicon treatment in distantly related plants, proposing a general function of silicon as a stress reliever, acting via increased cytokinin biosynthesis.
From cold-treated HcDREB2, a stress-inducible but ABA-independent transcription factor gene, can transactivate downstream genes by binding to the DRE cis-element. The current results are a foundation for making use of this stress tolerance gene in future
The Nictaba family groups all proteins that show homology to Nictaba, the tobacco lectin. So far, Nictaba and an Arabidopsis thaliana homologue have been shown to be implicated in the plant stress response. The availability of more than 50 sequenced plant genomes provided the opportunity for a genome-wide identification of Nictaba -like genes in 15 species, representing members of the Fabaceae, Poaceae, Solanaceae, Musaceae, Arecaceae, Malvaceae and Rubiaceae. Additionally, phylogenetic relationships between the different species were explored. Furthermore, this study included domain organization analysis, searching for orthologous genes in the legume family and transcript profiling of the Nictaba -like lectin genes in soybean. Using a combination of BLASTp, InterPro analysis and hidden Markov models, the genomes of Medicago truncatula , Cicer arietinum , Lotus japonicus , Glycine max , Cajanus cajan , Phaseolus vulgaris , Theobroma cacao , Solanum lycopersicum , Solanum tuberosum , Coffea canephora , Oryza sativa , Zea mays, Sorghum bicolor , Musa acuminata and Elaeis guineensis were searched for Nictaba -like genes. Phylogenetic analysis was performed using RAxML and additional protein domains in the Nictaba-like sequences were identified using InterPro. Expression analysis of the soybean Nictaba -like genes was investigated using microarray data. Nictaba -like genes were identified in all studied species and analysis of the duplication events demonstrated that both tandem and segmental duplication contributed to the expansion of the Nictaba gene family in angiosperms. The single-domain Nictaba protein and the multi-domain F-box Nictaba architectures are ubiquitous among all analysed species and microarray analysis revealed differential expression patterns for all soybean Nictaba-like genes. Taken together, the comparative genomics data contributes to our understanding of the Nictaba -like gene family in species for which the occurrence of Nictaba domains had not yet been investigated. Given the ubiquitous nature of these genes, they have probably acquired new functions over time and are expected to take on various roles in plant development and defence.
Climate variability due to fluctuation in temperature is a worldwide concern that imperils crop production. The need to understand how the germplasm variation in major crops can be utilized to aid in discovering and developing breeding lines that can withstand and adapt to temperature fluctuations is more necessary than ever. Here, we analyzed the genetic variation associated with responses to thermal stresses in a sorghum association panel (SAP) representing major races and working groups to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that are associated with resilience to temperature stress in a major cereal crop. The SAP exhibited extensive variation for seedling traits under cold and heat stress. Genome-wide analyses identified 30 SNPs that were strongly associated with traits measured at seedling stage under cold stress and tagged genes that act as regulators of anthocyanin expression and soluble carbohydrate metabolism. Meanwhile, 12 SNPs were significantly associated with seedling traits under heat stress and these SNPs tagged genes that function in sugar metabolism, and ion transport pathways. Evaluation of co-expression networks for genes near the significantly associated SNPs indicated complex gene interactions for cold and heat stresses in sorghum. We focused and validated the expression of four genes in the network of Sb06g025040, a basic-helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor that was proposed to be involved in purple color pigmentation of leaf, and observed that genes in this network were upregulated during cold stress in a moderately tolerant line as compared to the more sensitive line. This study facilitated the tagging of genome regions associated with variation in seedling traits of sorghum under cold and heat stress. These findings show the potential of genotype information for development of temperature resilient sorghum cultivars and further characterization of genes and their networks responsible for adaptation to thermal stresses. Knowledge on the gene networks from this research can be extended to the other cereal crops to better understand the genetic basis of resilience to temperature fluctuations during plant developmental stages.
Whole genome duplication has played an important role in plant evolution and diversification. Sugarcane is an important crop with a complex hybrid polyploid genome, for which the process of adaptation to polyploidy is still poorly understood. In order to improve our knowledge about sugarcane genome evolution and the homo/homeologous gene expression balance, we sequenced and analyzed 27 BACs (Bacterial Artificial Chromosome) of sugarcane R570 cultivar, containing the putative single-copy genes LFY (seven haplotypes), PHYC (four haplotypes), and TOR (seven haplotypes). Comparative genomic approaches showed that these sugarcane loci presented a high degree of conservation of gene content and collinearity (synteny) with sorghum and rice orthologous regions, but were invaded by transposable elements (TE). All the homo/homeologous haplotypes of LFY, PHYC, and TOR are likely to be functional, because they are all under purifying selection (dN/dS ≪ 1). However, they were found to participate in a nonequivalently manner to the overall expression of the corresponding gene. SNPs, indels, and amino acid substitutions allowed inferring the S. officinarum or S. spontaneum origin of the TOR haplotypes, which further led to the estimation that these two sugarcane ancestral species diverged between 2.5 and 3.5 Ma. In addition, analysis of shared TE insertions in TOR haplotypes suggested that two autopolyploidization may have occurred in the lineage that gave rise to S. officinarum, after its divergence from S. spontaneum.
Near isogenic lines (NILs) of sweet sorghum genotype S35 into which individual stay green loci were introgressed, were used to understand the contribution of Stay green loci to stem sugar accumulation and its remobilization under drought stress exposure. Sugar and starch content, activities of sugar metabolism enzymes and levels of their expression were studied in the 3rd (source) leaf from panicle and the 5th (sugar storing) internode of the three lines, in irrigated plants and in plants exposed to a brief drought exposure at the panicle emergence stage. Annotation of genes in the respective Stay green loci introgressed in the NILs was carried out using bioinformatics tools. The leaves of NILs accumulated more photoassimilates and the internodes accumulated more sugar, as compared to the parent S35 line. Drought stress exposure led to a decrease in the starch and sugar levels in leaves of all three lines, while an increase in sugar levels was observed in internodes of the NILs. Sugar fluxes were accompanied by alterations in the activities of sugar metabolizing enzymes as well as the expression of genes related to sugar metabolism and transport. Remobilization of sugars from the stem internodes was apparent in the NILs when subjected to drought stress, since the peduncle, which supports the panicle, showed an increase in the sugar content, even when photoassimation in source leaves was reduced. Several genes related to carbohydrate metabolism were located in the Stay green loci, which probably contributed to variation in the parameters studied.
For proper control of biological activity, some key genes are highly expressed in a particular spatiotemporal domain. Mining of such spatiotemporally expressed genes using large-scale gene expression data derived from a broad range of experimental sources facilitates our understanding of genome-scale functional gene networks. However, comprehensive information on spatiotemporally expressed genes is lacking in plants. To collect such information, we devised a new index, Δdmax, which is the maximum difference in relative gene expression levels between sample runs which are neighboring when sorted by the levels. Employing this index, we comprehensively evaluated transcripts using large-scale RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) data stored in the Sequence Read Archive for eight plant species: Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis), Solanum lycopersicum (tomato), Solanum tuberosum (potato), Oryza sativa (rice), Sorghum bicolor (sorghum), Vitis vinifera (grape), Medicago truncatula (Medicago), and Glycine max (soybean). Based on the frequency distribution of the Δdmax values, approximately 70,000 transcripts showing 0.3 or larger Δdmax values were extracted for the eight species. Information on these genes including the Δdmax values, functional annotations, conservation among species, and experimental conditions where the genes show high expression levels is provided in a new database, CATchUP (http://plantomics.mind.meiji.ac.jp/CATchUP). The CATchUP database assists in identifying genes specifically expressed under particular conditions with powerful search functions and an intuitive graphical user interface.
Glyphosate-resistant (GR) Kochia scoparia has evolved in dryland chemical fallow systems throughout North America and the mechanism of resistance involves 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS) gene duplication. Agricultural fields in four states were surveyed for K. scoparia in 2013 and tested for glyphosate-resistance level and EPSPS gene copy number. Glyphosate resistance was confirmed in K. scoparia populations collected from sugarbeet fields in Colorado, Wyoming, and Nebraska, and Montana. Glyphosate resistance was also confirmed in K. scoparia accessions collected from wheat-fallow fields in Montana. All GR samples had increased EPSPS gene copy number, with median population values up to 11 from sugarbeet fields and up to 13 in Montana wheat-fallow fields. The results indicate that glyphosate susceptibility can be accurately diagnosed using EPSPS gene copy number.
How sucrose transporters (SUTs) regulate phloem unloading in monocot stems is poorly understood and particularly so for species storing high Suc concentrations. To this end, Sorghum bicolor SUTs SbSUT1 and SbSUT5 were characterized by determining their transport properties heterologously expressed in yeast or Xenopus laevis oocytes, and their in planta cellular and subcellular localization. The plasma membrane-localized SbSUT1 and SbSUT5 exhibited a strong selectivity for Suc and high Suc affinities in X. laevis oocytes at pH 5-SbSUT1, 6.3 ± 0.7 mm, and SbSUT5, 2.4 ± 0.5 mm Suc. The Suc affinity of SbSUT1 was dependent on membrane potential and pH. In contrast, SbSUT5 Suc affinity was independent of membrane potential and pH but supported high transport rates at neutral pH. Suc transport by the tonoplast localized SbSUT4 could not be detected using yeast or X. laevis oocytes. Across internode development, SUTs, other than SbSUT4, were immunolocalized to sieve elements, while for elongating and recently elongated internodes, SUTs also were detected in storage parenchyma cells. We conclude that apoplasmic Suc unloading from de-energized protophloem sieve elements in meristematic zones may be mediated by reversal of SbSUT1 and/or by uniporting SWEETs. Storage parenchyma localized SbSUT1 and SbSUT5 may accumulate Suc from the stem apoplasms of elongating and recently elongated internodes, whereas SbSUT4 may function to release Suc from vacuoles. Transiting from an apoplasmic to symplasmic unloading pathway as the stem matures, SbSUT1 and SbSUT5 increasingly function in Suc retrieval into metaphloem sieve elements to maintain a high turgor to drive symplasmic unloading by bulk flow.
The important cereal crop Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench biosynthesize and accumulate the defensive compound dhurrin during development. Previous work has suggested multiple roles for the compound including a function as nitrogen storage/buffer. Crucial for this function is the endogenous turnover of dhurrin for which putative pathways have been suggested but not confirmed. In this study, the biosynthesis and endogenous turnover of dhurrin in the developing sorghum grain was studied by metabolite profiling and time-resolved transcriptome analyses. Dhurrin was found to accumulate in the early phase of grain development reaching maximum amounts 25 days after pollination. During the subsequent maturation period, the dhurrin content was turned over, resulting in only negligible residual dhurrin amounts in the mature grain. Dhurrin accumulation correlated with the transcript abundance of the three genes involved in biosynthesis. Despite the accumulation of dhurrin, the grains were acyanogenic as demonstrated by the lack of hydrogen cyanide release from macerated grain tissue and by the absence of transcripts encoding dhurrinases. With the missing activity of dhurrinases, the decrease in dhurrin content in the course of grain maturation represents the operation of hitherto uncharacterized endogenous dhurrin turnover pathways. Evidence for the operation of two such pathways was obtained by metabolite profiling and time-resolved transcriptome analysis. By combining cluster- and phylogenetic analyses with the metabolite profiling, potential gene candidates of glutathione S-transferases, nitrilases and glycosyl transferases involved in these pathways were identified. The absence of dhurrin in the mature grain was replaced by a high content of proanthocyanidins. Cluster- and phylogenetic analyses coupled with metabolite profiling, identified gene candidates involved in proanthocyanidin biosynthesis in sorghum. The results presented in this article reveal the existence of two endogenous dhurrin turnover pathways in sorghum, identify genes putatively involved in these transformations and show that dhurrin in addition to its insect deterrent properties may serve as a storage form of reduced nitrogen. In the course of sorghum grain maturation, proanthocyanidins replace dhurrin as a defense compound. The lack of cyanogenesis in the developing sorghum grain renders this a unique experimental system to study CNglc synthesis as well as endogenous turnover.
Sorghum is a highly efficient C4 crop with potential to mitigate challenges associated with food, feed and fuel. TCP proteins are of particular interest for crop improvement programs due to their well-demonstrated roles in crop domestication and shaping plant architecture thereby, affecting agronomic traits. We identified 20 TCP genes from Sorghum. Except SbTCP8, all are either intronless or contain introns in the untranslated regions. Comparative phylogenetic analysis of Arabidopsis, rice, Brachypodium and Sorghum TCP proteins revealed two distinct classes categorized into ten sub-clades. Sub-clade F is dicot-specific, whereas A2, G1 and I1 groups only contained genes from grasses. Sub-clade B was missing in Sorghum, whereas group A1 was missing in rice indicating species-specific divergence of TCP proteins. TCP proteins of Sorghum are enriched in disorder promoting residues with class I containing higher percent disorder than class II proteins. Seven pairs of paralogous TCP genes were identified from Sorghum, five of which seem to predate Rice-Sorghum divergence. All of them have diverged in their expression. Based on the expression and orthology analysis, five Sorghum genes have been shortlisted for further investigation for their roles in regulating plant morphology. Whereas, three genes have been identified as candidates for engineering abiotic stress tolerance.
Biological data are generated at unprecedentedly exponential rates, posing considerable challenges in big data deposition, integration and translation. The BIG Data Center, established at Beijing Institute of Genomics (BIG), Chinese Academy of Sciences, provides a suite of database resources, including (i) Genome Sequence Archive, a data repository specialized for archiving raw sequence reads, (ii) Gene Expression Nebulas, a data portal of gene expression profiles based entirely on RNA-Seq data, (iii) Genome Variation Map, a comprehensive collection of genome variations for featured species, (iv) Genome Warehouse, a centralized resource housing genome-scale data with particular focus on economically important animals and plants, (v) Methylation Bank, an integrated database of whole-genome single-base resolution methylomes and (vi) Science Wikis, a central access point for biological wikis developed for community annotations. The BIG Data Center is dedicated to constructing and maintaining biological databases through big data integration and value-added curation, conducting basic research to translate big data into big knowledge and providing freely open access to a variety of data resources in support of worldwide research activities in both academia and industry. All of these resources are publicly available and can be found at http://bigd.big.ac.cn.
Dof (DNA binding with one finger) proteins, which constitute a class of transcription factors found exclusively in plants, are involved in numerous physiological and biochemical reactions affecting growth and development. A genome-wide analysis of SiDof genes was performed in this study. Thirty five SiDof genes were identified and those genes were unevenly distributed across nine chromosomes in the Seteria italica genome. Protein lengths, molecular weights, and theoretical isoelectric points of SiDofs all vary greatly. Gene structure analysis demonstrated that most SiDof genes lack introns. Phylogenetic analysis of SiDof proteins and Dof proteins from Arabidopsis thaliana, rice, sorghum, and Setaria viridis revealed six major groups. Analysis of RNA-Seq data indicated that SiDof gene expression levels varied across roots, stems, leaves, and spike. In addition, expression profiling of SiDof genes in response to stress suggested that SiDof 7 and SiDof 15 are involved in drought stress signalling. Overall, this study could provide novel information on SiDofs for further investigation in foxtail millet.
Class III peroxidases (CIIIPRX) catalyze the oxidation of monolignols, generate radicals, and ultimately lead to the formation of lignin. In general, CIIIPRX genes encode a large number of isozymes with ranges of in vitro substrate specificities. In order to elucidate the mode of substrate specificity of these enzymes, we characterized one of the CIIIPRXs (PviPRX9) from switchgrass (Panicum virgatum), a strategic plant for second-generation biofuels. The crystal structure, kinetic experiments, molecular docking, as well as expression patterns of PviPRX9 across multiple tissues and treatments, along with its levels of coexpression with the majority of genes in the monolignol biosynthesis pathway, revealed the function of PviPRX9 in lignification. Significantly, our study suggested that PviPRX9 has the ability to oxidize a broad range of phenylpropanoids with rather similar efficiencies, which reflects its role in the fortification of cell walls during normal growth and root development and in response to insect feeding. Based on the observed interactions of phenylpropanoids in the active site and analysis of kinetics, a catalytic mechanism involving two water molecules and residues histidine-42, arginine-38, and serine-71 was proposed. In addition, proline-138 and gluntamine-140 at the
Sorghum is a short day plant with strong photoperiod response and its cultivation for grain in temperate regions necessitated the development of photoperiod insensitive mutants that can flower rapidly in the long days of summer. Wild type genotypes grow vegetatively in summer accumulating significant biomass before floral transition ensues during the shorter days of fall. Thus, photoperiod insensitive mutants are grown for grain production while photoperiod sensitive wild type genotypes are grown for forage and biomass feedstock production in the United States. However, the molecular mechanism of photoperiod response and floral transition is poorly understood in sorghum. We have previously reported 3 FLOWERING LOCUS T homologues (SbFT1, SbFT8 and SbFT10) that serve as the ultimate mediators of photoperiod response and floral transition, but more work remains to be done to clearly define the molecular function of the upstream regulatory factors. One of the major QTL that accounts for 85% of the flowering time variation, which was reported to be encoding the PRR37 protein is now debated to be encoding the SbFT12 protein, raising further questions as to how SbFT12 may regulate sorghum florigens. Further molecular analyses will uncover the true nature of the day length sensors in sorghum and the mechanisms of their interactions with florigens to modulate photoperiod dependent vegetative growth and floral transition.
Genomic gene clusters for the biosynthesis of chemical defence compounds are increasingly identified in plant genomes. We previously reported the independent evolution of biosynthetic gene clusters for cyanogenic glucoside biosynthesis in three plant lineages. Here we report that the gene cluster for the cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin in Sorghum bicolor additionally contains a gene, SbMATE2, encoding a transporter of the multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) family, which is co-expressed with the biosynthetic genes. The predicted localisation of SbMATE2 to the vacuolar membrane was demonstrated experimentally by transient expression of a SbMATE2-YFP fusion protein and confocal microscopy. Transport studies in Xenopus laevis oocytes demonstrate that SbMATE2 is able to transport dhurrin. In addition, SbMATE2 was able to transport non-endogenous cyanogenic glucosides, but not the anthocyanin cyanidin 3-O-glucoside or the glucosinolate indol-3-yl-methyl glucosinolate. The genomic co-localisation of a transporter gene with the biosynthetic genes producing the transported compound is discussed in relation to the role self-toxicity of chemical defence compounds may play in the formation of gene clusters.
Schizaphis graminum (green bug; GB) and Sipha flava (yellow sugarcane aphid; YSA) are two cereal aphid species with broad host ranges capable of establishing on sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and several switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) cultivars. Switchgrass and sorghum are staple renewable bioenergy crops that are vulnerable to damage by aphids, therefore, identifying novel targets to control aphids has the potential to drastically improve yields and reduce losses in these bioenergy crops. Despite the wealth of genomic and transcriptomic information available from a closely related model aphid species, the pea aphid (Acyrthosiphon pisum), similar genomic information, including the identification of small RNAs, is still limited for GB and YSA. Deep sequencing of miRNAs expressed in GB and YSA was conducted and 72 and 56 miRNA candidates (including 14 and eight novel) were identified, respectively. Of the identified miRNAs, 45 were commonly expressed in both aphid species. Further, plant derived miRNAs were also detected in both aphid samples, including 13 (eight known and five novel) sorghum miRNAs and three (novel) barley miRNAs. In addition, potential aphid gene targets for the host plant-derived miRNAs were predicted. The establishment of miRNA repertoires in these two aphid species and the detection of plant-derived miRNA in aphids will ultimately lead to a better understanding of the role of miRNAs in regulating gene expression networks in these two aphids and the potential roles of plant miRNAs in mediating plant-insect interactions.
The abscisic acid (ABA) signaling pathway is known as one of the most important signaling pathways in plants and is mediated by multiple regulators. The genes SnRK2, PYR/PYL/RCAR, and ABF are relevant to both ABA-dependent and -independent signaling pathways. To elucidate the profile of these genes from Tibetan hulless barley (Hordeum vulgare L. var. nudum Hook. f.), we collected available sequences from RNA-Seq data, together with NCBI data from five other model plant species (Arabidopsis thaliana, Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa, Populus trichocarpa, and Sorghum bicolor). Gene trees of SnRK2, PYR/PYL/RCAR, and ABF were constructed using a neighbor joining (NJ) method. For all genes, we identified a dominant group in which all six species were represented. Three, four, and five groups were found in the NJ trees of SnRK2, PYR/PYL/RCAR, and ABF, respectively. For each gene, Tibetan hulless barley was divided into three groups. Our analyses indicated that Tibetan hulless barley was associated with B. distachyon. The NJ cluster analysis also suggested that Tibetan hulless barley was affiliated with S. bicolor (SnRK2), A. thaliana (PYR/PYL/RCAR), and O. sativa (ABF). These results illustrate a diverse expression of genes SnRK2, PYR/PYL/RCAR, and ABF, and suggest a relationship among the six species studied. Collectively, our characterization of the three components of the ABA signaling pathway may contribute to improve stress tolerance in Tibetan hulless barley.
Insecticidal cry and vip genes from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) have been used for control of lepidopteran insects in transgenic crops. However, novel genes are required for gene pyramiding to delay evolution of resistance to the currently deployed genes. Two PCR-based techniques were employed for screening of cry2-type genes in 129 Bt isolates from diverse habitats in India and 27 known Bt strains. cry2Ab-type genes were more prevalent than cry2Aa- and cry2Ac-type genes. Correlation between source of isolates and abundance of cry2-type genes was not observed. Full-length cry2A-type genes were amplified by PCR from 9 Bt isolates and 4 Bt strains. The genes from Bt isolates SK-758 from Sorghum grain dust and SK-793 from Chilli seeds warehouse, Andhra Pradesh, were cloned and sequenced. The gene from SK-758 (NCBI GenBank accession No. GQ866915) was novel, while that from SK-793 (NCBI GenBank accession No. GQ866914) was identical to the cry2Ab1 gene. The Bacillus thuringiensis Nomenclature Committee ( http://www.lifesci.sussex.ac.uk/home/Neil_Crickmore/Bt/toxins2.html ) named these genes cry2Af2 and cry2Ab16, respectively. The cry2Af2 gene was expressed in Escherichia coli and found to be toxic towards Helicoverpa armigera. The cry2Af2 gene will be useful for pyramiding in transgenic crops.
The interior of plants contains microorganisms (referred to as endophytes) that are distinct from those present at the root surface or in the surrounding soil. Herbaspirillum seropedicae strain SmR1, belonging to the betaproteobacteria, is an endophyte that colonizes crops, including rice, maize, sugarcane, and sorghum. Different approaches have revealed genes and pathways regulated during the interactions of H. seropedicae with its plant hosts. However, functional genomic analysis of transposon (Tn) mutants has been hampered by the lack of genetic tools. Here we successfully employed a combination of in vivo high-density mariner Tn mutagenesis and targeted Tn insertion site sequencing (Tn-seq) in H. seropedicae SmR1. The analysis of multiple gene-saturating Tn libraries revealed that 395 genes are essential for the growth of H. seropedicae SmR1 in tryptone-yeast extract medium. A comparative analysis with the Database of Essential Genes (DEG) showed that 25 genes are uniquely essential in H. seropedicae SmR1. The Tn mutagenesis protocol developed and the gene-saturating Tn libraries generated will facilitate elucidation of the genetic mechanisms of the H. seropedicae endophytic lifestyle. A focal point in the study of endophytes is the development of effective biofertilizers that could help to reduce the input of agrochemicals in croplands. Besides the ability to promote plant growth, a good biofertilizer should be successful in colonizing its host and competing against the native microbiota. By using a systematic Tn-based gene-inactivation strategy and massively parallel sequencing of Tn insertion sites (Tn-seq), it is possible to study the fitness of thousands of Tn mutants in a single experiment. We have applied the combination of these techniques to the plant-growth-promoting endophyte Herbaspirillum seropedicae SmR1. The Tn mutant libraries generated will enable studies into the genetic mechanisms of H. seropedicae-plant interactions. The approach that we have taken is applicable to other plant-interacting bacteria.
This piece of the submission is being sent via mail. Leaf senescence is essential for the nutrient economy of crops and is executed by so-called senescence-associated genes (SAGs). Here we explored the monocot C
Sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrids) is a major feedstock for commercial bioethanol production. The recent integration of conversion technologies that utilize lignocellulosic sugarcane residues as well as sucrose from stem internodes has elevated bioethanol yields. RNAi suppression of lignin biosynthetic enzymes is a successful strategy to improve the saccharification of lignocellulosic biomass. 4-coumarate:coenzyme A ligase (4CL) is a key enzyme in the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoid metabolites, such as lignin and flavonoids. Identifying a major 4CL involved in lignin biosynthesis among multiple isoforms with functional divergence is key to manipulate lignin biosynthesis. In this study, two full length 4CL genes (Sh4CL1 and Sh4CL2) were isolated and characterized in sugarcane. Phylogenetic, expression and RNA interference (RNAi) analysis confirmed that Sh4CL1 is a major lignin biosynthetic gene. An intragenic precision breeding strategy may facilitate the regulatory approval of the genetically improved events and was used for RNAi suppression of Sh4CL1. Both, the RNAi inducing cassette and the expression cassette for the mutated ALS selection marker consisted entirely of DNA sequences from sugarcane or the sexually compatible species Sorghum bicolor. Field grown sugarcane with intragenic RNAi suppression of Sh4CL1 resulted in reduction of the total lignin content by up to 16.5 % along with altered monolignol ratios without reduction in biomass yield. Mature, field grown, intragenic sugarcane events displayed 52-76 % improved saccharification efficiency of lignocellulosic biomass compared to wild type (WT) controls. This demonstrates for the first time that an intragenic approach can add significant value to lignocellulosic feedstocks for biofuel and biochemical production.
The F-box protein 7 (FBXO7) mutations have been identified in families with early-onset parkinsonism and pyramidal tract signs, and designated as PARK15. In addition, FBXO7 mutations were found in typical and young onset Parkinson's disease (PD). Evidence has also shown that FBXO7 plays an important role in the development of dopaminergic neurons and increased stability and overexpression of FBXO7 may be beneficial to PD. We screened extracts of medicinal herbs to enhance FBXO7 expression for neuroprotection in MPP Promoter reporter assay in HEK-293 cells was used to examine the cis/trans elements controlling FBXO7 expression and to screen extracts of medicinal herbs enhancing FBXO7 expression. MTT assay was performed to assess cell viability of MPP We demonstrated that -202--57 region of the FBXO7 promoter is likely to contain sequences that are bound by positive trans protein factors to activate FBXO7 expression and GATA2 is the main trans protein factor enhancing FBXO7 expression. Extracts of medicinal herbs Oenanthe javanica (Blume) DC. (Umbelliferae), Casuarina equisetifolia L. (Casuarinaceae), and Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench (Gramineae) improved cell viability of both MPP Collectively, our study provides new targets, FBXO7 and its regulator GATA2, for the development of potential treatments of PD.
SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING PROTEIN-box (SBP-box) family genes encoding plant-specific transcription factors are involved in many aspects of crop genetic improvement such as yield, plant-type and stress-resistance. The SBP-box gene family have important practical applications. In this study, 18 SBP-box genes were identified from the reference genome of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) using bioinformatics. These genes distributed on nine chromosomes while eight of them located in the segmental duplication region. Phylogenetic reconstruction resulted in six subfamilies of SBP-box genes, among which SbSBP12, SbSBP3 and SbSBP15 are orthologous to ZmLG1, ZmTGA1 and ZmUB2/3 in corn, respectively. RNA-seq data analysis indicated that SbSBP-box genes show the highest expression level in primordial inflorescences. Moreover, SbSBP9 and SbSBP17 exhibited a tissue specific expression in primordial inflorescences. The expression levels of SbSBP5, SbSBP8 and SbSBP18 were increased in response to exogenous ABA and PEG,indicating that SbSBP-box genes are involved in the defense response against abiotic stresses in sorghum. This research provides references for cloning important genes in SbSBP-box gene family. Genes identified in this study could be considered as candidate genes for genetic improvement of sorghum.
Glyoxalase I (Gly I) is a component of the glyoxalase system which is involved in the detoxification of methylglyoxal, a byproduct of glycolysis. In the present study, a gene of rice (Oryza sativa L., cv. Nipponbare) encoding Gly I was cloned and characterized. The quantitative real-time PCR analysis indicated that rice Gly I (OsGly I) was ubiquitously expressed in root, stem, leaf, leaf sheath and spikelet with varying abundance. OsGly I was markedly upregulated in response to NaCl, ZnCl
Herbaspirillum seropedicae is a diazotrophic β-Proteobacterium found endophytically associated with gramineae (Poaceae or graminaceous plants) such as rice, sorghum and sugar cane. In this work we show that nitrate-dependent growth in this organism is regulated by the master nitrogen regulatory two-component system NtrB-NtrC, and by NtrY-NtrX, which functions to specifically regulate nitrate metabolism. NtrY is a histidine kinase sensor protein predicted to be associated with the membrane and NtrX is the response regulator partner. The ntrYntrX genes are widely distributed in Proteobacteria. In α-Proteobacteria they are frequently located downstream from ntrBC, whereas in β-Proteobacteria these genes are located downstream from genes encoding an RNA methyltransferase and a proline-rich protein with unknown function. The NtrX protein of α-Proteobacteria has an AAA+ domain, absent in those from β-Proteobacteria. An ntrY mutant of H. seropedicae showed the wild-type nitrogen fixation phenotype, but the nitrate-dependent growth was abolished. Gene fusion assays indicated that NtrY is involved in the expression of genes coding for the assimilatory nitrate reductase as well as the nitrate-responsive two-component system NarX-NarL (narK and narX promoters, respectively). The purified NtrX protein was capable of binding the narK and narX promoters, and the binding site at the narX promoter for the NtrX protein was determined by DNA footprinting. In silico analyses revealed similar sequences in other promoter regions of H. seropedicae that are related to nitrate assimilation, supporting the role of the NtrY-NtrX system in regulating nitrate metabolism in H. seropedicae.
Biomass based alternative fuels offer a solution to the world's ever-increasing energy demand. With the ability to produce high biomass in marginal lands with low inputs, sorghum has a great potential to meet second-generation biofuel needs. Despite the sorghum crop importance in biofuel and fodder industry, there is no comprehensive information available on the cell wall related genes and gene families (biosynthetic and modification). It is important to identify the cell wall related genes to understand the cell wall biosynthetic process as well as to facilitate biomass manipulation. Genome-wide analysis using gene family specific Hidden Markov Model of conserved domains identified 520 genes distributed among 20 gene families related to biosynthesis/modification of various cell wall polymers such as cellulose, hemicellulose, pectin, and lignin. Chromosomal localization analysis of these genes revealed that about 65% of cell wall related genes were confined to four chromosomes (Chr. 1-4). Further, 56 tandem duplication events involving 169 genes were identified in these gene families which could be associated with expansion of genes within families in sorghum. Additionally, we also identified 137 Simple Sequence Repeats related to 112 genes and target sites for 10 miRNAs in some important families such as cellulose synthase, cellulose synthase-like, and laccases, etc. To gain further insight into potential functional roles, expression analysis of these gene families was performed using publically available data sets in various tissues and under abiotic stress conditions. Expression analysis showed tissue specificity as well as differential expression under abiotic stress conditions. Overall, our study provides a comprehensive information on cell wall related genes families in sorghum which offers a valuable resource to develop strategies for altering biomass composition by plant breeding and genetic engineering approaches.
The productivity of maize (Zea mays L.) depends on the development of chloroplasts, and G2-like transcription factors play a central role in regulating chloroplast development. In this study, we identified 59 G2-like genes in the B73 maize genome and systematically analyzed these genes at the molecular and evolutionary levels. Based on gene structure character, motif compositions and phylogenetic analysis, maize G2-like genes (ZmG1- ZmG59) were divided into seven groups (I-VII). By synteny analysis, 18 collinear gene pairs and strongly conserved microsyntny among regions hosting G2-like genes across maize and sorghum were found. Here, we showed that the vast majority of ZmG gene duplications resulted from whole genome duplication events rather than tandem duplications. After gene duplication events, some ZmG genes were silenced. The functions of G2-like genes were multifarious and most genes that are expressed in green tissues may relate to maize photosynthesis. The qRT-PCR showed that the expression of these genes was sensitive to low temperature and drought. Furthermore, we analyzed differences of ZmGs specific to cultivars in temperate and tropical regions at the population level. Interestingly, the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis revealed that nucleotide polymorphism associated with different temperature zones. Above all, G2-like genes were highly conserved during evolution, but polymorphism could be caused due to a different geographical location. Moreover, G2-like genes might be related to cold and drought stresses.
We produced a unique large data set of reference transcriptomes to obtain new knowledge about the evolution of plant genomes and crop domestication. For this purpose, we validated a RNA-Seq data assembly protocol to perform comparative population genomics. For the validation, we assessed and compared the quality of de novo Illumina short-read assemblies using data from two crops for which an annotated reference genome was available, namely grapevine and sorghum. We used the same protocol for the release of 26 new transcriptomes of crop plants and wild relatives, including still understudied crops such as yam, pearl millet and fonio. The species list has a wide taxonomic representation with the inclusion of 15 monocots and 11 eudicots. All contigs were annotated using BLAST, prot4EST and Blast2GO. A strong originality of the data set is that each crop is associated with close relative species, which will permit whole-genome comparative evolutionary studies between crops and their wild-related species. This large resource will thus serve research communities working on both crops and model organisms. All the data are available at http://arcad-bioinformatics.southgreen.fr/.
α-amylase is an important enzyme involved in starch degradation to provide energy to the germinating seedling. The present study was conducted to reveal structural and functional evolution of this gene among higher plants. Discounting polyploidy, most plant species showed only a single copy of the gene making multiple isoforms in different tissues and developmental stages. Genomic length of the gene ranged from 1472 bp in wheat to 2369 bp in soybean, and the size variation was mainly due to differences in the number and size of introns. In spite of this variation, the intron phase distribution and insertion sites were mostly conserved. The predicted protein size ranged from 414 amino acid (aa) in soybean to 449aa in Brachypodium. Overall, the protein sequence similarity among orthologs ranged from 56.4 to 97.4 %. Key motifs and domains along with their relative distances were conserved among plants although several species, genera, and class specific motifs were identified. The glycosyl hydrolase superfamily domain length varied from 342aa in soybean to 384aa in maize and sorghum while length of the C-terminal β-sheet domain was highly conserved with 61aa in all monocots and Arabidopsis but was 59aa in soybean and Medicago. Compared to rice, 3D structure of the proteins showed 89.8 to 91.3 % similarity among the monocots and 72.7 to 75.8 % among the dicots. Sequence and relative location of the five key aa required for the ligand binding were highly conserved in all species except rice.
Biomass accumulated preferentially in leaves of the sweet sorghum Della until floral initiation, then stems until anthesis, followed by panicles until grain maturity, and apical tillers. Sorghum stem RNA-seq transcriptome profiles and composition data were collected for approximately 100 days of development beginning at floral initiation. The analysis identified >200 differentially expressed genes involved in stem growth, cell wall biology, and sucrose accumulation. Genes encoding expansins and xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolases were differentially expressed in growing stem internodes. Genes encoding enzymes involved in the synthesis of cellulose, lignin, and glucuronoarabinoxylan were expressed at elevated levels in stems until approximately 7 days before anthesis and then down-regulated. CESA genes involved in primary and secondary cell wall synthesis showed different temporal patterns of expression. Following floral initiation, the level of sucrose and other non-structural carbohydrates increased to approximately 50% of the stem's dry weight. Stem sucrose accumulation was inversely correlated with >100-fold down-regulation of SbVIN1, a gene encoding a vacuolar invertase. Accumulation of stem sucrose was also correlated with cessation of leaf and stem growth at anthesis, decreased expression of genes involved in stem cell wall synthesis, and approximately 10-fold lower expression of SbSUS4, a gene encoding sucrose synthase that generates UDP-glucose from sucrose for cell wall biosynthesis. Genes for mixed linkage glucan synthesis (CSLF) and turnover were expressed at high levels in stems throughout development. Overall, the stem transcription profile resource and the genes and regulatory dynamics identified in this study will be useful for engineering sorghum stem composition for improved conversion to biofuels and bio-products.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench) has excellent agronomic traits and biological properties, such as heat and drought-tolerance. It is a C4 grass and potential bioenergy-producing plant, which makes it an important crop worldwide. With the sorghum genome sequence released, it is essential to establish a sorghum functional genomics data mining platform. We collected genomic data and some functional annotations to construct a sorghum functional genomics database (SorghumFDB). SorghumFDB integrated knowledge of sorghum gene family classifications (transcription regulators/factors, carbohydrate-active enzymes, protein kinases, ubiquitins, cytochrome P450, monolignol biosynthesis related enzymes, R-genes and organelle-genes), detailed gene annotations, miRNA and target gene information, orthologous pairs in the model plants Arabidopsis, rice and maize, gene loci conversions and a genome browser. We further constructed a dynamic network of multidimensional biological relationships, comprised of the co-expression data, protein-protein interactions and miRNA-target pairs. We took effective measures to combine the network, gene set enrichment and motif analyses to determine the key regulators that participate in related metabolic pathways, such as the lignin pathway, which is a major biological process in bioenergy-producing plants.Database URL: http://structuralbiology.cau.edu.cn/sorghum/index.html.
In the present study, we have screened 71, 713, 525, 119 and 241 mature miRNA variants from Hordeum vulgare, Oryza sativa, Brachypodium distachyon, Triticum aestivum, and Sorghum bicolor, respectively, and classified them with respect to their conservation status and expression levels. These Poaceae non-redundant miRNA species (1,669) were distributed over a total of 625 MIR families, among which only 54 were conserved across two or more plant species, confirming the relatively recent evolutionary differentiation of miRNAs in grasses. On the other hand, we have used 257 H. vulgare, 286T. aestivum, 119 B. distachyon, 269 O. sativa, and 139 S. bicolor NBS domains, which were either mined directly from the annotated proteomes, or predicted from whole genome sequence assemblies. The hybridization potential between miRNAs and their putative NBS genes targets was analyzed, revealing that at least 454 NBS genes from all five Poaceae were potentially regulated by 265 distinct miRNA species, most of them expressed in leaves and predominantly co-expressed in additional tissues. Based on gene ontology, we could assign these probable miRNA target genes to 16 functional groups, among which three conferring resistance to bacteria (Rpm1, Xa1 and Rps2), and 13 groups of resistance to fungi (Rpp8,13, Rp3, Tsn1, Lr10, Rps1-k-1, Pm3, Rpg5, and MLA1,6,10,12,13). The results of the present analysis provide a large-scale platform for a better understanding of biological control strategies of disease resistance genes in Poaceae, and will serve as an important starting point for enhancing crop disease resistance improvement by means of transgenic lines with artificial miRNAs.
Alternative splicing and alternative polyadenylation (APA) of pre-mRNAs greatly contribute to transcriptome diversity, coding capacity of a genome and gene regulatory mechanisms in eukaryotes. Second-generation sequencing technologies have been extensively used to analyse transcriptomes. However, a major limitation of short-read data is that it is difficult to accurately predict full-length splice isoforms. Here we sequenced the sorghum transcriptome using Pacific Biosciences single-molecule real-time long-read isoform sequencing and developed a pipeline called TAPIS (Transcriptome Analysis Pipeline for Isoform Sequencing) to identify full-length splice isoforms and APA sites. Our analysis reveals transcriptome-wide full-length isoforms at an unprecedented scale with over 11,000 novel splice isoforms. Additionally, we uncover APA of ∼11,000 expressed genes and more than 2,100 novel genes. These results greatly enhance sorghum gene annotations and aid in studying gene regulation in this important bioenergy crop. The TAPIS pipeline will serve as a useful tool to analyse Iso-Seq data from any organism.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) produces five leucine-derived hydroxynitrile glucosides (HNGs), of which only epiheterodendrin is a cyanogenic glucoside. The four non-cyanogenic HNGs are the β-HNG epidermin and the γ-HNGs osmaronin, dihydroosmaronin and sutherlandin. By analyzing 247 spring barley lines including landraces and old and modern cultivars, we demonstrated that the HNG level varies notably between lines whereas the overall ratio between the compounds is constant. Based on sequence similarity to the sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) genes involved in dhurrin biosynthesis, we identified a gene cluster on barley chromosome 1 putatively harboring genes that encode enzymes in HNG biosynthesis. Candidate genes were functionally characterized by transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana. Five multifunctional P450s, including two CYP79 family enzymes and three CYP71 family enzymes, and a single UDP-glucosyltransferase were found to catalyze the reactions required for biosynthesis of all five barley HNGs. Two of the CYP71 enzymes needed to be co-expressed for the last hydroxylation step in sutherlandin synthesis to proceed. This observation, together with the constant ratio between the different HNGs, suggested that HNG synthesis in barley is organized within a single multi-enzyme complex.
SWEET is a newly identified family of sugar transporters. Although SWEET transporters have been characterized by using Arabidopsis and rice, very little knowledge of sucrose accumulation in the stem region is available, as these model plants accumulate little sucrose in their stems. To elucidate the expression of key SWEET genes involved in sucrose accumulation of sorghum, we performed transcriptome profiling by RNA-seq, categorization using phylogenetic trees, analysis of chromosomal synteny, and comparison of amino acid sequences between SIL-05 (a sweet sorghum) and BTx623 (a grain sorghum). We identified 23 SWEET genes in the sorghum genome. In the leaf, SbSWEET8-1 was highly expressed and was grouped in the same clade as AtSWEET11 and AtSWEET12 that play a role in the efflux of photosynthesized sucrose. The key genes in sucrose synthesis (SPS3) and that in another step of sugar transport (SbSUT1 and SbSUT2) were also highly expressed, suggesting that sucrose is newly synthesized and actively exported from the leaf. In the stem, SbSWEET4-3 was uniquely highly expressed. SbSWEET4-1, SbSWEET4-2, and SbSWEET4-3 were categorized into the same clade, but their tissue specificities were different, suggesting that SbSWEET4-3 is a sugar transporter with specific roles in the stem. We found a putative SWEET4-3 ortholog in the corresponding region of the maize chromosome, but not the rice chromosome, suggesting that SbSWEET4-3 was copied after the branching of sorghum and maize from rice. In the panicle from the heading through to 36 days afterward, SbSWEET2-1 and SbSWEET7-1 were expressed and grouped in the same clade as rice OsSWEET11/Xa13 that is essential for seed development. SbSWEET9-3 was highly expressed in the panicle only just after heading and was grouped into the same clade as AtSWEET8/RPG1 that is essential for pollen viability. Five of 23 SWEET genes had SNPs that caused nonsynonymous amino acid substitutions between SIL-05 and BTx623. We determined the key SWEET genes for technological improvement of sorghum in the production of biofuels: SbSWEET8-1 for efflux of sucrose from the leaf; SbSWEET4-3 for unloading sucrose from the phloem in the stem; SbSWEET2-1 and SbSWEET7-1 for seed development; SbSWEET9-3 for pollen nutrition.
ZmMYB31 and ZmMYB42 are R2R3-MYB transcription factors implicated in the regulation of phenylpropanoid genes in maize. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the regulatory function of MYB31 and MYB42 is conserved in other monocots, specifically in sorghum and rice. We demonstrate that syntelogs of MYB31 and MYB42 do bind to phenylpropanoid genes that function in all stages of the pathway and in different tissues along the developmental gradient of seedling leaves. We found that caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT1) is a common target of MYB31 and MYB42 in the mature leaf tissues of maize, sorghum and rice, as evidenced by Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments. In contrast, 4-coumarate-CoA ligase (4CL2), ferulate-5-hydroxylase (F5H), and caffeoyl shikimate esterase (CSE), were targeted by MYB31 or MYB42, but in a more species-specific fashion. Our results revealed MYB31 and MYB42 participation in auto- and cross-regulation in all three species. Apart from a limited conservation of regulatory modules, MYB31 and MYB42 syntelogs appear to have undergone subfunctionalization following gene duplication and divergence of maize, sorghum, and rice. Elucidating the different regulatory roles of these syntelogs in the context of positive transcriptional activators may help guide attempts to alter the flux of intermediates towards lignin production in biofuel grasses.
Major intrinsic proteins (MIPs), commonly known as aquaporins, transport not only water in plants but also other substrates of physiological significance and heavy metals. In most of the higher plants, MIPs are divided into five subfamilies (PIPs, TIPs, NIPs, SIPs and XIPs). Herein, we identified 68, 42, 38 and 28 full-length MIPs, respectively in the genomes of four monocot grass plants, specifically Panicum virgatum, Setaria italica, Sorghum bicolor and Brachypodium distachyon. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the grass plants had only four MIP subfamilies including PIPs, TIPs, NIPs and SIPs without XIPs. Based on structural analysis of the homology models and comparing the primary selectivity-related motifs [two NPA regions, aromatic/arginine (ar/R) selectivity filter and Froger's positions (FPs)] of all plant MIPs that have been experimentally proven to transport non-aqua substrates, we predicted the transport profiles of all MIPs in the four grass plants and also in eight other plants. Groups of MIP subfamilies based on ar/R selectivity filter and FPs were linked to the non-aqua transport profiles. We further deciphered the substrate selectivity profiles of the MIPs in the four grass plants and compared them with their counterparts in rice, maize, soybean, poplar, cotton, Arabidopsis thaliana, Physcomitrella patens and Selaginella moellendorffii. In addition to two NPA regions, ar/R filter and FPs, certain residues, especially in loops B and C, contribute to the functional distinctiveness of MIP groups. Expression analysis of transcripts in different organs indicated that non-aqua transport was related to expression of MIPs since most of the unexpressed MIPs were not predicted to facilitate the transport of non-aqua molecules. Among all MIPs in every plant, TIP (BdTIP1;1, SiTIP1;2, SbTIP2;1 and PvTIP1;2) had the overall highest mean expression. Our study generates significant information for understanding the diversity, evolution, non-aqua transport profiles and insight into comparative transport selectivity of plant MIPs, and provides tools for the development of transgenic plants.
Cinnamoyl-CoA reductase (CCR) is the first enzyme in the monolignol-specific branch of the lignin biosynthetic pathway. In this research, three sorghum CCR genes including SbCCR1, SbCCR2-1 and SbCCR2-2 were cloned and characterized. Analyses of the structure and phylogeny of the three CCR genes showed evolutionary conservation of the functional domains and divergence of function. Transient expression assays in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves demonstrated that the three CCR proteins were localized in the cytoplasm. The expression analysis showed that the three CCR genes were induced by drought. But in 48 h, the expression levels of SbCCR1 and SbCCR2-2 did not differ between CK and the drought treatment; while the expression level of SbCCR2-1 in the drought treatment was higher than in CK. The expression of the SbCCR1 and SbCCR2-1 genes was not induced by sorghum aphid [Melanaphis sacchari (Zehntner)] attack, but SbCCR2-2 was significantly induced by sorghum aphid attack. It is suggested that SbCCR2-2 is involved in the process of pest defense. Absolute quantitative real-time PCR revealed that the three CCR genes were mainly expressed in lignin deposition organs. The gene copy number of SbCCR1 was significantly higher than those of SbCCR2-1 and SbCCR2-2 in the tested tissues, especially in stem. The results provide new insight into the functions of the three CCR genes in sorghum.
DNA binding with one finger (Dof) proteins represent a family of plant specific transcription factors associated with diverse biological processes, such as seed maturation and germination, phytohormone and light mediated regulation, and plant responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. In present study, a total of 21 Dof genes from Sorghum bicolor were cloned, sequenced and in silico characterized for homology search, revealing their identity to Dof like proteins. The expression profiling of SbDof genes using quantitative RT-PCR in different tissue types and also under drought and salt stresses was attempted. The SbDof genes displayed differential expression either in their transcript abundance or in their expression patterns under normal growth condition. Two of the SbDof genes namely SbDof8 and SbDof12 showed comparatively high level of transcript abundance in all the tissue types tested; whereas some of the SbDof genes showed a distinct tissue specific expression pattern. Further a total of 13 SbDof genes showed differential expression when subjected to either of the abiotic stress i.e. drought or salinity. Three of the SbDof genes namely SbDof12, SbDof19 and SbDof24 were found to be up-regulated in response to drought and salt stress. Comparative analysis of SbDof genes expression revealed existence of a complex transcriptional and functional diversity across plant growth and developmental stages.
Drought stress is the major environmental stress that affects plant growth and productivity. It triggers a wide range of responses detectable at molecular, biochemical and physiological levels. At the molecular level the response to drought stress results in the differential expression of several metabolic pathways. For this reason, exploring the subtle differences in gene expression of drought sensitive and drought tolerant genotypes enables the identification of drought-related genes that could be used for selection of drought tolerance traits. Genome-wide RNA-Seq technology was used to compare the drought response of two sorghum genotypes characterized by contrasting water use efficiency. The physiological measurements carried out confirmed the drought sensitivity of IS20351 and the drought tolerance of IS22330 genotypes, as previously studied. The expression of drought-related genes was more abundant in the drought sensitive genotype IS20351 compared to the tolerant genotype IS22330. Under drought stress Gene Ontology enrichment highlighted a massive increase in transcript abundance in the sensitive genotype IS20351 in "response to stress" and "abiotic stimulus", as well as for "oxidation-reduction reaction". "Antioxidant" and "secondary metabolism", "photosynthesis and carbon fixation process", "lipids" and "carbon metabolism" were the pathways most affected by drought in the sensitive genotype IS20351. In addition, genotype IS20351 showed a lower constitutive expression level of "secondary metabolic process" (GO:0019748) and "glutathione transferase activity" (GO:000004364) under well-watered conditions. RNA-Seq analysis proved to be a very useful tool to explore differences between sensitive and tolerant sorghum genotypes. Transcriptomics analysis results supported all the physiological measurements and were essential to clarify the tolerance of the two genotypes studied. The connection between differential gene expression and physiological response to drought unequivocally revealed the drought tolerance of genotype IS22330 and the strategy adopted to cope with drought stress.
Plant viruses have been widely used as vectors for foreign gene expression and virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS). A limited number of viruses have been developed into viral vectors for the purposes of gene expression or VIGS in monocotyledonous plants, and among these, the tripartite viruses Brome mosaic virus and Cucumber mosaic virus have been shown to induce VIGS in maize (Zea mays). We describe here a new DNA-based VIGS system derived from Foxtail mosaic virus (FoMV), a monopartite virus that is able to establish systemic infection and silencing of endogenous maize genes homologous to gene fragments inserted into the FoMV genome. To demonstrate VIGS applications of this FoMV vector system, four genes, phytoene desaturase (functions in carotenoid biosynthesis), lesion mimic22 (encodes a key enzyme of the porphyrin pathway), iojap (functions in plastid development), and brown midrib3 (caffeic acid O-methyltransferase), were silenced and characterized in the sweet corn line Golden × Bantam. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the FoMV infectious clone establishes systemic infection in maize inbred lines, sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and green foxtail (Setaria viridis), indicating the potential wide applications of this viral vector system for functional genomics studies in maize and other monocots.
Distantly related maize (Zea mays) inbred lines display an exceptional degree of genomic diversity. F1 progeny of such inbred lines are often more vigorous than their parents, a phenomenon known as heterosis. In this study, we investigated how the genetic divergence of the maize inbred lines B73 and Mo17 and their F1 hybrid progeny is reflected in differential, nonadditive, and allelic expression patterns in primary root tissues. In pairwise comparisons of the four genotypes, the number of differentially expressed genes between the two parental inbred lines significantly exceeded those of parent versus hybrid comparisons in all four tissues under analysis. No differentially expressed genes were detected between reciprocal hybrids, which share the same nuclear genome. Moreover, hundreds of nonadditive and allelic expression ratios that were different from the expression ratios of the parents were observed in the reciprocal hybrids. The overlap of both nonadditive and allelic expression patterns in the reciprocal hybrids significantly exceeded the expected values. For all studied types of expression - differential, nonadditive, and allelic - substantial tissue-specific plasticity was observed. Significantly, nonsyntenic genes that evolved after the last whole genome duplication of a maize progenitor from genes with synteny to sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) were highly overrepresented among differential, nonadditive, and allelic expression patterns compared with the fraction of these genes among all expressed genes. This observation underscores the role of nonsyntenic genes in shaping the transcriptomic landscape of maize hybrids during the early developmental manifestation of heterosis in root tissues of maize hybrids.
Sorghum production is affected by a wide array of biotic constraints, of which sorghum shoot fly, Atherigona soccata is the most important pest, which severely damages the sorghum crop during the seedling stage. Host plant resistance is one of the major components to control sorghum shoot fly, A. soccata. To understand the nature of gene action for inheritance of shoot fly resistance, we evaluated 10 parents, 45 F1's and their reciprocals in replicated trials during the rainy and postrainy seasons. The genotypes ICSV 700, Phule Anuradha, ICSV 25019, PS 35805, IS 2123, IS 2146, and IS 18551 exhibited resistance to shoot fly damage across seasons. Crosses between susceptible parents were preferred for egg laying by the shoot fly females, resulting in a susceptible reaction. ICSV 700, ICSV 25019, PS 35805, IS 2123, IS 2146, and IS 18551 exhibited significant and negative general combining ability (gca) effects for oviposition, deadheart incidence, and overall resistance score. The plant morphological traits associated with expression of resistance/susceptibility to shoot fly damage such as leaf glossiness, plant vigor, and leafsheath pigmentation also showed significant gca effects by these genotypes, suggesting the potential for use as a selection criterion to breed for resistance to shoot fly, A. soccata. ICSV 700, Phule Anuradha, IS 2146 and IS 18551 with significant positive gca effects for trichome density can also be utilized in improving sorghums for shoot fly resistance. The parents involved in hybrids with negative specific combining ability (sca) effects for shoot fly resistance traits can be used in developing sorghum hybrids with adaptation to postrainy season. The significant reciprocal effects of combining abilities for oviposition, leaf glossy score and trichome density suggested the influence of cytoplasmic factors in inheritance of shoot fly resistance. Higher values of variance due to specific combining ability (σ(2)s), dominance variance (σ(2)d), and lower predictability ratios than the variance due to general combining ability (σ(2)g) and additive variance (σ(2)a) for shoot fly resistance traits indicated the predominance of dominance type of gene action, whereas trichome density, leaf glossy score, and plant vigor score with high σ(2)g, additive variance, predictability ratio, and the ratio of general combining ability to the specific combining ability showed predominance of additive type of gene action indicating importance of heterosis breeding followed by simple selection in breeding shoot fly-resistant sorghums. Most of the traits exhibited high broadsense heritability, indicating high inheritance of shoot fly resistance traits.
Accurate and reliable gene expression data from qPCR depends on stable reference gene expression for potential gene functional analyses. In this study, 15 reference genes were selected and analyzed in various sample sets including abiotic stress treatments (salt, cold, water stress, heat, and abscisic acid) and tissues (leaves, roots, seedlings, panicle, and mature seeds). Statistical tools, including geNorm, NormFinder and RefFinder, were utilized to assess the suitability of reference genes based on their stability rankings for various sample groups. For abiotic stress, PP2A and CYP were identified as the most stable genes. In contrast, EIF4α was the most stable in the tissue sample set, followed by PP2A; PP2A was the most stable in all the sample set, followed by EIF4α. GAPDH, and UBC1 were the least stably expressed in the tissue and all the sample sets. These results also indicated that the use of two candidate reference genes would be sufficient for the optimization of normalization studies. To further verify the suitability of these genes for use as reference genes, SbHSF5 and SbHSF13 gene expression levels were normalized using the most and least stable sorghum reference genes in root and water stressed-leaf tissues of five sorghum varieties. This is the first systematic study of the selection of the most stable reference genes for qPCR-related assays in Sorghum bicolor that will potentially benefit future gene expression studies in sorghum and other closely related species.
Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC; E.C. 4.1.1.31) was characterized in developing and germinating sorghum seeds, focusing on the transcript and polypeptide abundance of multiple plant-type phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PTPC) genes, and the post-translational modification of each isoenzyme by phosphorylation versus monoubiquitination during germination. We observed high levels of SbPPC4 (Sb07g014960) transcripts during early development (stage I), and extensive transcript abundance of SbPPC2 (Sb02g021090) and SbPPC3 (Sb04g008720) throughout the entire life cycle of the seed. Although tandem mass spectrometry (MS) analysis of immunopurified PTPC indicated that four different PTPC isoenzymes were expressed in the developing and germinating seeds, SbPPC3 was the most abundant isozyme of the developing seed, and of the embryo and the aleurone layer of germinating seeds. In vivo phosphorylation of the different PTPC isoenzymes at their conserved N-terminal seryl phosphorylation site during germination was also established by MS/MS analysis. Furthermore, three of the four isoenzymes were partially monoubiquitinated, with MS/MS pinpointing SbPPC2 and SbPPC3 monoubiquitination at the conserved Lys-630 and Lys-624 residues, respectively. Our results demonstrate that monoubiquitination and phosphorylation simultaneously occur in vivo with different PTPC isozymes during seed germination. In addition, we show that PTPC monoubiquitination in germinating sorghum seeds always increases at stage II (emergence of the radicle), is maintained during the aerobic period of rapid cell division and reserve mobilization, and remains relatively constant until stage IV-V when coleoptiles initiate the formation of the photosynthetic tissues.
Seed storage proteins (SSP) in cereals provide essential nutrition for humans and animals. Genes encoding these proteins have undergone rapid evolution in different grass species. To better understand the degree of divergence, we analyzed this gene family in the subfamily Chloridoideae, where the genome of teff (Eragrostis tef) has been sequenced. We find gene duplications, deletions, and rapid mutations in protein-coding sequences. The main SSPs in teff, like other grasses, are prolamins, here called eragrostins. Teff has γ- and δ-prolamins, but has no β-prolamins. One δ-type prolamin (δ1) in teff has higher methionine (33%) levels than in maize (23-25%). The other δ-type prolamin (δ2) has reduced methionine residues (<10%) and is phylogenetically closer to α prolamins. Prolamin δ2 in teff represents an intermediate between δ and α types that appears to have been lost in maize and other Panicoideae, and was replaced by the expansion of α-prolamins. Teff also has considerably larger numbers of α-prolamin genes, which we further divide into five sub-groups, where α2 and α5 represent the most abundant α-prolamins both in number and in expression. In addition, indolines that determine kernel softness are present in teff and the panicoid cereal called foxtail millet (Setaria italica) but not in sorghum or maize, indicating that these genes were only recently lost in some members of the Panicoideae Moreover, this study provides not only information on the evolution of SSPs in the grass family but also the importance of α-globulins in protein aggregation and germplasm divergence.
Nuclear factor Y (NF-Y) is a heterotrimeric transcription factor (TF) complex with preferential binding to CCAAT elements of promoters, regulating gene expression in most of the higher eukaryotes. The availability of plant genome sequences have revealed multiple number of genes coding for the three subunits, namely NF-YA, NF-YB and NF-YC in contrast to single NF-Y gene for each subunit reported in yeast and animals. A total of 33 NF-YTF comprising of 8 NF-YA, 11 NF-YB and 14 NF-YC subunits were accessed from the sorghum genome. The bioinformatic characterization of NF-Y gene family of sorghum for gene structure, chromosome location, protein motif, phylogeny, gene duplication and in-silico expression under abiotic stresses have been attempted in the present study. The identified SbNF-Y genes are distributed on all the 10 chromosomes of sorghum with variability in the frequency and 18 out of 33 SbNF-Ys were found to be intronless. Segmental duplication event was found to be predominant feature based on gene duplication pattern study. Several orthologs and paralogs groups were disclosed through the comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of SbNF-Y proteins along with 36 Arabidopsis and 28 rice NF-Y proteins. In-silico expression analysis under abiotic stresses using rice transcriptome data revealed several of the sorghum NF-Y genes to be associated with salt, drought, cold and heat stresses.
Xylitol is a non-fermentable sugar alcohol used as sweetener. Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC13032 was metabolically engineered for xylitol production from the lignocellulosic pentose sugars xylose and arabinose. Direct conversion of xylose to xylitol was achieved through the heterologous expression of NAD(P)H-dependent xylose reductase (xr) gene from Rhodotorula mucilaginosa. Xylitol synthesis from arabinose was attained through polycistronic expression of l-arabinose isomerase (araA), d-psicose 3 epimerase (dpe) and l-xylulose reductase (lxr) genes from Escherichia coli, Agrobacterium tumefaciens and Mycobacterium smegmatis, respectively. Expression of xr and the synthetic araA-dpe-lxr operon under the control of IPTG-inducible Ptac promoter enabled production of xylitol from both xylose and arabinose in the mineral (CGXII) medium with glucose as carbon source. Additional expression of a pentose transporter (araTF) gene enhanced xylitol production by about four-fold compared to the parent strain. The constructed strain Cg-ax3 produced 6.7±0.4g/L of xylitol in batch fermentations and 31±0.5g/L of xylitol in fed-batch fermentations with a specific productivity of 0.28±0.05g/g cdw/h. The strain Cg-ax3 was also validated for xylitol production from pentose rich, acid pre-treated liquor of sorghum stover (SAPL) and the results were comparable in both SAPL (27±0.3g/L) and mineral medium (31±0.5g/L).
The fall armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda, Noctuidae, Lepidoptera) is one of the most important crop pests in the Americas, causing significant damage to maize, rice and sorghum. The mechanisms that determine its defences against pathogens are particularly relevant for the development of management and control strategies. We used an in silico approach to identify and characterize pathogen response genes (repat) present in different tissue libraries of S. fugiperda. The analyses revealed complete cDNA for nine repat genes; of these, repat15 and repat39 were found in libraries from a specific tissue--the midgut of larvae fed with xenobiotic substances. High expression levels of some genes were found in different libraries: 39 hits in repat30 in challenged hemocytes, 16 hits in repat31 in fat body, 10 hits in repat32 in fat body and 10 in challenged hemocytes, and 10 hits in repat38 in midgut of non-treated larvae and midgut of larvae fed with natural and xenobiotic substances. The genes corresponded to two ontology categories, stress response and immune response, and their phylogenetic relationships, nucleotide similarity, number of amino acid residues and molecular weights agree with what has been described for repat genes. It is noteworthy that proteins encoded by the repat genes of S. frugiperda have important defence functions in other tissues beyond midgut and that their functional categories are likely diverse, as they are related to cell envelope structure, energy metabolism, transport and binding.
Sudangrass, Sorghum sudanense, is an important forage in warm regions. But little is known about its genome. In this study, the transcriptomes of sudangrass S722 and sorghum Tx623B were sequenced by Illumina sequencing. More than 4Gb bases were sequenced for each library. For Tx623B and S722, 88.79% and 83.88% reads, respectively were matched to the Sorghum bicolor genome. A total of 2,397 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were detected by RNA-Seq between the two libraries, including 849 up-regulated genes and 1,548 down-regulated genes. These DEGs could be divided into three groups by annotation analysis. A total of 44,495 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were discovered by aligning S722 reads to the sorghum reference genome. Of these SNPs, 61.37% were transition, and this value did not differ much between different chromosomes. In addition, 16,928 insertion and deletion (indel) loci were identified between the two genomes. A total of 5,344 indel markers were designed, 15 of which were selected to construct the genetic map derived from the cross of Tx623A and Sa. It was indicated that the indel markers were useful and versatile between sorghum and sudangrass. Comparison of synonymous base substitutions (Ks) and non-synonymous base substitutions (Ka) between the two libraries showed that 95% orthologous pairs exhibited Ka/Ks<1.0, indicating that these genes were influenced by purifying selection. The results from this study provide important information for molecular genetic research and a rich resource for marker development in sudangrass and other Sorghum species.
C4 photosynthesis is considered one of the most remarkable examples of evolutionary convergence in eukaryotes. However, it is unknown whether the evolution of C4 photosynthesis required the evolution of new genes. Genome-wide gene-tree species-tree reconciliation of seven monocot species that span two origins of C4 photosynthesis revealed that there was significant parallelism in the duplication and retention of genes coincident with the evolution of C4 photosynthesis in these lineages. Specifically, 21 orthologous genes were duplicated and retained independently in parallel at both C4 origins. Analysis of this gene cohort revealed that the set of parallel duplicated and retained genes is enriched for genes that are preferentially expressed in bundle sheath cells, the cell type in which photosynthesis was activated during C4 evolution. Furthermore, functional analysis of the cohort of parallel duplicated genes identified SWEET-13 as a potential key transporter in the evolution of C4 photosynthesis in grasses, and provides new insight into the mechanism of phloem loading in these C4 species. C4 photosynthesis, gene duplication, gene families, parallel evolution.
Upon wounding or pathogen invasion, leaves of sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] plants with the P gene turn purple, whereas leaves with the recessive allele turn brown or tan. This purple phenotype is determined by the production of two 3-deoxyanthocyanidins, apigeninidin and luteolinidin, which are not produced by the tan-phenotype plants. Using map-based cloning in progeny from a cross between purple Nakei-MS3B (PP) and tan Greenleaf (pp) cultivars, we isolated this gene, which was located in a 27-kb genomic region around the 58.1 Mb position on chromosome 6. Four candidate genes identified in this region were similar to the maize leucoanthocyanidin reductase gene. None of them was expressed before wounding, and only the Sb06g029550 gene was induced in both cultivars after wounding. The Sb06g029550 protein was detected in Nakei-MS3B, but only slightly in Greenleaf, in which it may be unstable because of a Cys252Tyr substitution. A recombinant Sb06g029550 protein had a specific flavanone 4-reductase activity, and converted flavanones (naringenin or eriodictyol) to flavan-4-ols (apiforol or luteoforol) in vitro Our data indicate that the Sb06g029550 gene is involved in the 3-deoxyanthocyanidin synthesis pathway.
Comparisons of flowering plant genomes reveal multiple rounds of ancient polyploidy characterized by large intragenomic syntenic blocks. Three such whole-genome duplication (WGD) events, designated as rho (ρ), sigma (σ), and tau (τ), have been identified in the genomes of cereal grasses. Precise dating of these WGD events is necessary to investigate how they have influenced diversification rates, evolutionary innovations, and genomic characteristics such as the GC profile of protein-coding sequences. The timing of these events has remained uncertain due to the paucity of monocot genome sequence data outside the grass family (Poaceae). Phylogenomic analysis of protein-coding genes from sequenced genomes and transcriptome assemblies from 35 species, including representatives of all families within the Poales, has resolved the timing of rho and sigma relative to speciation events and placed tau prior to divergence of Asparagales and the commelinids but after divergence with eudicots. Examination of gene family phylogenies indicates that rho occurred just prior to the diversification of Poaceae and sigma occurred before early diversification of Poales lineages but after the Poales-commelinid split. Additional lineage-specific WGD events were identified on the basis of the transcriptome data. Gene families exhibiting high GC content are underrepresented among those with duplicate genes that persisted following these genome duplications. However, genome duplications had little overall influence on lineage-specific changes in the GC content of coding genes. Improved resolution of the timing of WGD events in monocot history provides evidence for the influence of polyploidization on functional evolution and species diversification.
The architecture of a plant affects its ability to compete for light and to respond to environmental stresses, thus affecting overall fitness and productivity. Two components of architecture, branching and height, were studied in 182 F7 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) at the vegetative, flowering and mature developmental stages in the panicoid C4 model grass system, Setaria. The RIL population was derived from a cross between domesticated S. italica (foxtail millet) and its wild relative S. viridis (green foxtail). In both field and greenhouse trials the wild parent was taller initially, started branching earlier, and flowered earlier, while the domesticated parent was shorter initially, but flowered later, producing a robust tall plant architecture with more nodes and leaves on the main culm and few or no branches. Biomass was highly correlated with height of the plant and number of nodes on the main culm, and generally showed a negative relationship with branch number. However, several of the RILs with the highest biomass in both trials were significantly more branched than the domesticated parent of the cross. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) analyses indicate that both height and branching are controlled by multiple genetic regions, often with QTL for both traits colocalizing in the same genomic regions. Genomic positions of several QTL colocalize with QTL in syntenic regions in other species and contain genes known to control branching and height in sorghum, maize, and switchgrass. Included in these is the ortholog of the rice SD-1 semi-dwarfing gene, which underlies one of the major Setaria height QTL. Understanding the relationships between height and branching patterns in Setaria, and their genetic control, is an important step to gaining a comprehensive knowledge of the development and genetic regulation of panicoid grass architecture.
One of the hallmarks of C4 plants is the division of labor between two different photosynthetic cell types, the mesophyll and the bundle sheath cells. C4 plants are of polyphyletic origin and, during the evolution of C4 photosynthesis, the expression of thousands of genes was altered and many genes acquired a cell type-specific or preferential expression pattern. Several lines of evidence, including computational modeling and physiological and phylogenetic analyses, indicate that alterations in the expression of a key photorespiration-related gene, encoding the glycine decarboxylase P subunit, was an early and important step during C4 evolution. Restricting the expression of this gene to the bundle sheath led to the establishment of a photorespiratory CO2 pump. We were interested in whether the expression of genes related to photorespiration remains bundle sheath specific in a fully optimized C4 species. Therefore we analyzed the expression of photorespiratory and C4 cycle genes using RNA in situ hybridization and transcriptome analysis of isolated mesophyll and bundle sheath cells in the C4 grass Sorghum bicolor It turns out that the C4 metabolism of Sorghum is based solely on the NADP-dependent malic enzyme pathway. The majority of photorespiratory gene expression, with some important exceptions, is restricted to the bundle sheath.
Plant chloroplasts are light-driven cell factories that have great potential to act as a chassis for metabolic engineering applications. Using plant chloroplasts, we demonstrate how photosynthetic reducing power can drive a metabolic pathway to synthesise a bio-active natural product. For this purpose, we stably engineered the dhurrin pathway from Sorghum bicolor into the chloroplasts of Nicotiana tabacum (tobacco). Dhurrin is a cyanogenic glucoside and its synthesis from the amino acid tyrosine is catalysed by two membrane-bound cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYP79A1 and CYP71E1) and a soluble glucosyltransferase (UGT85B1), and is dependent on electron transfer from a P450 oxidoreductase. The entire pathway was introduced into the chloroplast by integrating CYP79A1, CYP71E1, and UGT85B1 into a neutral site of the N. tabacum chloroplast genome. The two P450s and the UGT85B1 were functional when expressed in the chloroplasts and converted endogenous tyrosine into dhurrin using electrons derived directly from the photosynthetic electron transport chain, without the need for the presence of an NADPH-dependent P450 oxidoreductase. The dhurrin produced in the engineered plants amounted to 0.1-0.2% of leaf dry weight compared to 6% in sorghum. The results obtained pave the way for plant P450s involved in the synthesis of economically important compounds to be engineered into the thylakoid membrane of chloroplasts, and demonstrate that their full catalytic cycle can be driven directly by photosynthesis-derived electrons.
Miscanthus sinensis Anderss is a perennial C4-grass. It is a promising bioenergy plant, which has been proposed as general feedstock for biomass and lignocellulosic biofuel production. In this study, the flower and leaf buds transcriptomes of Miscanthus sinensis Anderss were sequenced by the platform of Illumina HiSeq 2000. In total 98 326 Unigenes were generated by de novo assembly with an average length of 822 bp and N50 of 1 023 bp. Based on the NR, NT, Swiss-Prot, KEGG, GO and COG databases (Evalue < le-5), 74 134 (75.40%) Unigenes were annotated. A total of 45 507 Unigenes were mapped into different GO terms. In KEGG pathways identification, 36 710 sequences were assigned to 128 KEGG pathways. Sorghum bicolor (37 731, 60.86%), Zea mays (16 258, 26.22%), and Oryza sativa (3 065, 4.94%) showed high similarity to Miscanthus sinensis Anderss. And 24 photosynthesis-related enzyme genes were identified. The result provides a foundation for further characterizing the functional genes in Miscanthus sinensis Anderss.
Red rot is a serious disease of sugarcane caused by the fungus Colletotrichum falcatum that has a colossal damage potential. The fungus, prevalent mainly in the Indian sub-continent, keeps on producing new pathogenic strains leading to breakdown of resistance in newly released varieties and hence the deployment of linked markers for marker-assisted selection for resistance to this disease can fine tune the breeding programme. This study based on a panel of 119 sugarcane genotypes fingerprinted for 944 SSR alleles was undertaken with an aim to identify marker-trait associations (MTAs) for resistance to red rot. Mixed linear model containing population structure and kinship as co-factor detected four MTAs that were able to explain 10-16 % of the trait variation, individually. Among the four MTAs, EST sequences diagnostic of three could be BLAST searched to the sorghum genome with significant sequence homology. Several genes encoding important plant defence related proteins, viz., cytochrome P450, Glycerol-3-phosphate transporter-1, MAP Kinase-4, Serine/threonine-protein kinase, Ring finger domain protein and others were localized to the vicinity of these MTAs. These positional candidate genes are worth of further investigation and possibly these could contribute directly to red rot resistance, and may find a potential application in marker-assisted sugarcane breeding.
Cadmium (Cd) stress may cause serious morphological and physiological abnormalities in addition to altering the proteome in plants. The present study was performed to explore Cd-induced morpho-physiological alterations and their potential associated mechanisms in Sorghum bicolor leaves at the protein level. Ten-day-old sorghum seedlings were exposed to different concentrations (0, 100, and 150 μM) of CdCl2, and different morpho-physiological responses were recorded. The effects of Cd exposure on protein expression patterns in S. bicolor were investigated using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) in samples derived from the leaves of both control and Cd-treated seedlings. The observed morphological changes revealed that the plants treated with Cd displayed dramatically altered shoot lengths, fresh weights and relative water content. In addition, the concentration of Cd was markedly increased by treatment with Cd, and the amount of Cd taken up by the shoots was significantly and directly correlated with the applied concentration of Cd. Using the 2-DE method, a total of 33 differentially expressed protein spots were analyzed using MALDI-TOF/TOF MS. Of these, treatment with Cd resulted in significant increases in 15 proteins and decreases in 18 proteins. Major changes were absorbed in the levels of proteins known to be involved in carbohydrate metabolism, transcriptional regulation, translation and stress responses. Proteomic results revealed that Cd stress had an inhibitory effect on carbon fixation, ATP production and the regulation of protein synthesis. Our study provides insights into the integrated molecular mechanisms involved in responses to Cd and the effects of Cd on the growth and physiological characteristics of sorghum seedlings. We have aimed to provide a reference describing the mechanisms involved in heavy metal damage to plants.
As a promising candidate for the second-generation C4 energy crop, Miscanthus lutarioriparius has well acclimated to the water-limited and high-light Loess Plateau in China by improving photosynthesis rate and water use efficiency (WUE) compared to its native habitat along Yangtze River. Photosynthetic genes were demonstrated as one major category of the candidate genes underlying the physiological superiority. To further study how photosynthetic genes interact to improve the acclimation potential of M. lutarioriparius, population expression patterns within photosynthesis pathway were explored between one mild environment and one harsh environment. We found that 108 transcripts in assembled transcriptome of M. lutarioriparius were highly similar to genes in three Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) photosynthesis pathways of sorghum and maize. Phylogenetic analyses using sorghum, maize, rice, and Arabidopsis genes of dark reaction identified 23 orthologs and 30 paralogs of M. lutarioriparius photosynthetic genes. These genes were also clustered into two kinds of expression pattern. 87% of transcripts in dark reaction were up-regulated and all 14 chloroplast-encoded transcripts in light reaction increased degradation in the harsh environment compared to the mild environment. Moreover, 80.8% of photosynthetic transcripts were coordinated at transcription level under the two environments. Interestingly, LHCI and PSI were significantly correlated with F-ATPase and C4 cycle. Overall, this study indicates the coordinated expression between cyclic electron transport (consisting of LHCI, PSI, and ATPase) and CO2-concentrating mechanism (C4 cycle) could account for photosynthesis plasticity on M. lutarioriparius acclimation potential.
Phytochrome B (phyB) enables plants to modify shoot branching or tillering in response to varying light intensities and ratios of red and far-red light caused by shading and neighbor proximity. Tillering is inhibited in sorghum genotypes that lack phytochrome B (58M, phyB-1) until after floral initiation. The growth of tiller buds in the first leaf axil of wild-type (100M, PHYB) and phyB-1 sorghum genotypes is similar until 6 d after planting when buds of phyB-1 arrest growth, while wild-type buds continue growing and develop into tillers. Transcriptome analysis at this early stage of bud development identified numerous genes that were up to 50-fold differentially expressed in wild-type/phyB-1 buds. Up-regulation of terminal flower1, GA2oxidase, and TPPI could protect axillary meristems in phyB-1 from precocious floral induction and decrease bud sensitivity to sugar signals. After bud growth arrest in phyB-1, expression of dormancy-associated genes such as DRM1, GT1, AF1, and CKX1 increased and ENOD93, ACCoxidase, ARR3/6/9, CGA1, and SHY2 decreased. Continued bud outgrowth in wild-type was correlated with increased expression of genes encoding a SWEET transporter and cell wall invertases. The SWEET transporter may facilitate Suc unloading from the phloem to the apoplast where cell wall invertases generate monosaccharides for uptake and utilization to sustain bud outgrowth. Elevated expression of these genes was correlated with higher levels of cytokinin/sugar signaling in growing buds of wild-type plants.
The sustainability of global crop production is critically dependent on improving tolerance of crop plants to various types of environmental stress. Thus, identification of genes that confer stress tolerance in crops has become a top priority especially in view of expected changes in global climatic patterns. Drought stress is one of the abiotic stresses that can result in dramatic loss of crop productivity. In this work, we show that transgenic expression of a highly conserved cell death suppressor, Bax Inhibitor-1 from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtBI-1), can confer increased tolerance of sugarcane plants to long-term (>20 days) water stress conditions. This robust trait is correlated with an increased tolerance of the transgenic sugarcane plants, especially in the roots, to induction of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress by the protein glycosylation inhibitor tunicamycin. Our findings suggest that suppression of ER stress in C4 grasses, which include important crops such as sorghum and maize, can be an effective means of conferring improved tolerance to long-term water deficit. This result could potentially lead to improved resilience and yield of major crops in the world.
Monocots represent a monophyletic clade of the angiosperms that - based on fossil and molecular records - originated at around the Early Cretaceous from aquatic and wetland ancestors. Among their members are important crops including maize, wheat, rice, sorghum and barley, accounting for the major source for the daily calorie uptake by humans. Reflecting this importance, the partly large and complex genomes of these plants were major targets for ambitious and innovative sequencing projects, which will be discussed in this review article.
Currently, molecular breeding is regarded as an important tool for the improvement of many crop species. However, in sorghum, recently heralded as an important bioenergy crop, progress in this field has been relatively slow and limited. In this review, we present existing efforts targeted at genetic characterization of sorghum mutants. We also comprehensively review the different attempts made toward the isolation of genes involved in agronomically important traits, including the dissection of some sorghum quantitative trait loci (QTLs). We also explore the current status of the use of transgenic techniques in sorghum, which should be crucial for advancing sorghum molecular breeding. Through this report, we provide a useful benchmark to help assess how much more sorghum genomics and molecular breeding could be improved.
The nucleotide-binding site (NBS)-leucine-rich repeat (LRR) gene family is crucially important for offering resistance to pathogens. To explore evolutionary conservation and variability of NBS-LRR genes across grass species, we identified 88, 107, 24, and 44 full-length NBS-LRR genes in sorghum, rice, maize, and Brachypodium, respectively. A comprehensive analysis was performed on classification, genome organization, evolution, expression, and regulation of these NBS-LRR genes using sorghum as a representative of grass species. In general, the full-length NBS-LRR genes are highly clustered and duplicated in sorghum genome mainly due to local duplications. NBS-LRR genes have basal expression levels and are highly potentially targeted by miRNA. The number of NBS-LRR genes in the four grass species is positively correlated with the gene clustering rate. The results provided a valuable genomic resource and insights for functional and evolutionary studies of NBS-LRR genes in grass species.
Sorghum-sudangrass hybrids are widely used for forage and silage in the animal husbandry industry due to their hardiness. The heterozygous first generation of sorghum-sudangrass hybrids displays performance superior to their homozygous, parental inbred lines. In order to study the molecular details underlying its heterosis, the leaves of sorghum-sudangrass hybrids and their parents were compared using mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Results showed that among the 996 proteins that were identified, 32 proteins showed 'additive accumulation expression patterns', indicating that the protein abundance in sorghum-sudangrass hybrids showed no significant difference from the average of their parents. Additionally, 74 proteins showed 'nonadditive accumulation expression patterns' (the proteins abundance in the hybrids showed significant difference from the average of their parents). Both additive and nonadditive proteins were mainly involved in photosynthesis and carbohydrate metabolism. More upregulated additive and nonadditive proteins were in the hybrids than in their parents, suggesting that additive and nonadditive proteins are essential to the vigor of sorghum-sudangrass hybrids. The nonadditive proteins were enriched in photosynthesis, carbohydrate metabolism, and protein oligomerization, but the additive proteins were not enriched in any pathway, which indicated that the nonadditive proteins could be greater contributors to heterosis than additive proteins. Furthermore, the highly activated photosynthetic pathway in nonadditive proteins implies that photosynthesis in hybrids is heightened to assimilate more organic matter, resulting in an increased yield. Our results provide a proof-of-concept that reveals the molecular components of heterosis in sorghum-sudangrass hybrid leaves and serves as an important step for future genetic manipulation of specific proteins to improve the performance of hybrids.
Determination of gene expression is an important tool to study biological processes and relies on the quality of the extracted RNA. Changes in gene expression profiles may be directly related to mutations in regulatory DNA sequences or alterations in DNA cytosine methylation, which is an epigenetic mark. Correlation of gene expression with DNA sequence or epigenetic mark polymorphism is often desirable; for this, a robust protocol to isolate high-quality RNA and DNA simultaneously from the same sample is required. Although commercial kits and protocols are available, they are mainly optimized for animal tissues and, in general, restricted to RNA or DNA extraction, not both. In the present study, we describe an efficient and accessible method to extract both RNA and DNA simultaneously from the same sample of various plant tissues, using small amounts of starting material. The protocol was efficient in the extraction of high-quality nucleic acids from several Arabidopsis thaliana tissues (e.g., leaf, inflorescence stem, flower, fruit, cotyledon, seedlings, root, and embryo) and from other tissues of non-model plants, such as Avicennia schaueriana (Acanthaceae), Theobroma cacao (Malvaceae), Paspalum notatum (Poaceae), and Sorghum bicolor (Poaceae). The obtained nucleic acids were used as templates for downstream analyses, such as mRNA sequencing, quantitative real time-polymerase chain reaction, bisulfite treatment, and others; the results were comparable to those obtained with commercial kits. We believe that this protocol could be applied to a broad range of plant species, help avoid technical and sampling biases, and facilitate several RNA- and DNA-dependent analyses.
The regulatory role of small non-coding RNAs that are 20-24 nucleotides in length has become the foremost area of research for biologists. A major class of small RNAs represented by the microRNAs (miRNAs), has been implicated in various aspects of plant development including leaf pattering, meristem function, root patterning etc. Recent findings support that miRNAs are regulated by drought and other abiotic stresses in various plant species. In this study, were report the expression profiling of 8 known abiotic stress deregulated miRNAs in 11 elite sorghum genotypes, under watered and drought conditions. Significant deregulation was observed with miR396, miR393, miR397-5p, miR166, miR167 and miR168. Among these, the expression levels of sbi-miR396 and sbi-miR398 were the highest in all the genotypes. The expression of sbi-miR396 was maximum in the grain sorghum HSD3226 under well-watered conditions and the profile shifted towards HSD3221 under drought stress. Forage accessions, N98 and Atlas, showed an opposite behavior in expression patterns of miR397-5p in drought physiologies. Such dynamic expression patterns could be indicative of prevailing drought tolerant mechanisms present in these sorghum accessions. This data provides insights into sorghum miRNAs which may have potential use in improving drought tolerance in sorghum and other cereal crops.
Sorghum is a typical short-day (SD) plant and its use in grain or biomass production in temperate regions depends on its flowering time control, but the underlying molecular mechanism of floral transition in sorghum is poorly understood. Here we characterized sorghum FLOWERING LOCUS T (SbFT) genes to establish a molecular road map for mechanistic understanding. Out of 19 PEBP genes, SbFT1, SbFT8 and SbFT10 were identified as potential candidates for encoding florigens using multiple approaches. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that SbFT1 clusters with the rice Hd3a subclade, while SbFT8 and SbFT10 cluster with the maize ZCN8 subclade. These three genes are expressed in the leaf at the floral transition initiation stage, expressed early in grain sorghum genotypes but late in sweet and forage sorghum genotypes, induced by SD treatment in photoperiod-sensitive genotypes, cooperatively repressed by the classical sorghum maturity loci, interact with sorghum 14-3-3 proteins and activate flowering in transgenic Arabidopsis plants, suggesting florigenic potential in sorghum. SD induction of these three genes in sensitive genotypes is fully reversed by 1 wk of long-day treatment, and yet, some aspects of the SD treatment may still make a small contribution to flowering in long days, indicating a complex photoperiod response mediated by SbFT genes.
Sorghum is an important C4 crop which relies on applied Nitrogen fertilizers (N) for optimal yields, of which substantial amounts are lost into the atmosphere. Understanding the genetic variation of sorghum in response to limited nitrogen supply is important for elucidating the underlying genetic mechanisms of nitrogen utilization. A bi-parental mapping population consisting of 131 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) was used to map quantitative trait loci (QTLs) influencing different agronomic traits evaluated under normal N (100 kg.ha(-1) fertilizer) and low N (0 kg.ha(-1) fertilizer) conditions. A linkage map spanning 1614 cM was developed using 642 polymorphic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) detected in the population using Genotyping-By-Sequencing (GBS) technology. Composite interval mapping detected a total of 38 QTLs for 11 agronomic traits tested under different nitrogen levels. The phenotypic variation explained by individual QTL ranged from 6.2 to 50.8%. Illumina RNA sequencing data generated on seedling root tissues revealed 726 differentially expressed gene (DEG) transcripts between parents, of which 108 were mapped close to the QTL regions. Co-localized regions affecting multiple traits were detected on chromosomes 1, 5, 6, 7 and 9. These potentially pleiotropic regions were coincident with the genomic regions of cloned QTLs, including genes associated with flowering time, Ma3 on chromosome 1 and Ma1 on chromosome 6, gene associated with plant height, Dw2 on chromosome 6. In these regions, RNA sequencing data showed differential expression of transcripts related to nitrogen metabolism (Ferredoxin-nitrate reductase), glycolysis (Phosphofructo-2-kinase), seed storage proteins, plant hormone metabolism and membrane transport. The differentially expressed transcripts underlying the pleiotropic QTL regions could be potential targets for improving sorghum performance under limited N fertilizer through marker assisted selection.
Heterosis is characterized by higher seed yields, plant biomass or other traits in heterozygotes or hybrids compared with their genetically divergent parents, which are often homozygous. Despite extensive investigation of heterosis and its wide application in crops such as maize, rice, wheat and sorghum, its molecular basis is still enigmatic. In the past century, some pioneers have proposed multigene models referring to the complementation of allelic and gene expression variation, which is likely to be an important contributor to heterosis. In addition, there are potential interactions of epigenetic variation involved in heterosis via novel mechanisms. At the level of gene expression, many recent studies have revealed that the heterosis phenomenon can be deciphered not only at the transcriptional level but also at the proteomic level. This review presents an update on the information supporting the involvement of proteomic patterns in heterosis and a possible future direction of the field. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Plant Proteomics--a bridge between fundamental processes and crop production, edited by Dr. Hans-Peter Mock.
Imprinting is an epigenetic phenomenon referring to allele-biased expression of certain genes depending on their parent of origin. Accumulated evidence suggests that, while imprinting is a conserved mechanism across kingdoms, the identities of the imprinted genes are largely species-specific. Using deep RNA sequencing of endosperm 14 days after pollination in sorghum, 5683 genes (29.27% of the total 19 418 expressed genes) were found to harbor diagnostic single nucleotide polymorphisms between two parental lines. The analysis of parent-of-origin expression patterns in the endosperm of a pair of reciprocal F1 hybrids between the two sorghum lines led to identification of 101 genes with ≥ fivefold allelic expression difference in both hybrids, including 85 maternal expressed genes (MEGs) and 16 paternal expressed genes (PEGs). Thirty of these genes were previously identified as imprinted in endosperm of maize (Zea mays), rice (Oryza sativa) or Arabidopsis, while the remaining 71 genes are sorghum-specific imprinted genes relative to these three plant species. Allele-biased expression of virtually all of the 14 tested imprinted genes (nine MEGs and five PEGs) was validated by pyrosequencing using independent sources of RNA from various developmental stages and dissected parts of endosperm. Forty-six imprinted genes (30 MEGs and 16 PEGs) were assayed by quantitative RT-PCR, and the majority of them showed endosperm-specific or preferential expression relative to embryo and other tissues. DNA methylation analysis of the 5' upstream region and gene body for seven imprinted genes indicated that, while three of the four PEGs were associated with hypomethylation of maternal alleles, no MEG was associated with allele-differential methylation.
The phenylpropanoid biosynthetic pathway that generates lignin subunits represents a significant target for altering the abundance and composition of lignin. The global regulators of phenylpropanoid metabolism may include MYB transcription factors, whose expression levels have been correlated with changes in secondary cell wall composition and the levels of several other aromatic compounds, including anthocyanins and flavonoids. While transcription factors correlated with downregulation of the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway have been identified in several grass species, few transcription factors linked to activation of this pathway have been identified in C4 grasses, some of which are being developed as dedicated bioenergy feedstocks. In this study we investigated the role of SbMyb60 in lignin biosynthesis in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), which is a drought-tolerant, high-yielding biomass crop. Ectopic expression of this transcription factor in sorghum was associated with higher expression levels of genes involved in monolignol biosynthesis, and led to higher abundances of syringyl lignin, significant compositional changes to the lignin polymer and increased lignin concentration in biomass. Moreover, transgenic plants constitutively overexpressing SbMyb60 also displayed ectopic lignification in leaf midribs and elevated concentrations of soluble phenolic compounds in biomass. Results indicate that overexpression of SbMyb60 is associated with activation of monolignol biosynthesis in sorghum. SbMyb60 represents a target for modification of plant cell wall composition, with the potential to improve biomass for renewable uses.
A high protein digestibility/high-lysine mutant P721Q (hdhl) with a multi-folded protein body morphology has been developed, with a 22kDa α-kafirin single point mutation having also been recently identified. Relatively little is known regarding the resulting cellular response in hdhl endosperm. The aim is to elucidate these biochemical changes. Two-dimentional gel electrophoresis showed an apparent increase of non-kafirin and a decrease in kafirins content in hdhl endosperm. Mass spectrometry data yielded the identity of differentially expressed non-kafirin proteins in hdhl, wild-type lines such as cytoskeleton and chaperones proteins, and also others involved in amino acids and carbohydrates biochemical synthesis pathways. Western blot analysis showed that chaperone proteins were more highly expressed in the hdhl than the wild-type sorghum and confirmed the non-kafirin proteins proteomic results. Two-dimentional gel electrophoresis showed that the γ-kafirin subunits content had decreased, and the 22kDa α-kafirin subunit was increased in hdhl without any apparent molecular mass change. The observed differential expression most likely led to proteins interactions between γ- and α-kafirin subunits in particular, which resulted in a kafirins packing differently to form the protein body's multi-folded morphology, while also improving its digestibility.
The Trihelix transcription factor family plays an essential role in plant growth, development and stress response. However, the studies about identification and analysis of this gene family in rice on the genome-wide level have not been reported. In this study, 31 members of the Trihelix family, which contain highly conserved and characteristic trihelix domain through sequence clustering and functional domains analysis, were identified in rice genome database using bioinformatic tools. These members could be classified into 5 subfamilies (I~V) based on the evolutionary relationship and domain characteristics. Clustering analyses of the Trihelix family in rice, Arabidopsis, Brachypodium distachyom and Sorghum bicolor showed that each species contained different members of subfamily although the classification of the Trihelix family were consistent in these four species, which indicated that the differentiation of the Trihelix gene family occur earlier than that of these species. The conserved motifs in the Trihelix family of rice analyzed using the MEME program were highly consistent with the results of clustering analyses. Intraspecific and interspecific chromosomal replication in partial Trihelix family members were found to exist in rice and between rice and other species through chromosome replication analysis. Microarray data analysis revealed diverse expression patterns of Trihelix family genes in different tissues of rice or in response to six different phytohormones. Moreover, 20 members of the Trihelix transcription factor family were found to interact with other proteins in rice using RiceFRIEND online database analysis. Therefore, our results preliminarily identified the evolution, chromosome distribution and replication, expression patterns, phytohormones response of the Trihelix transcription factor family and the interaction between trihelix family proteins and other proteins in rice, which will provide a basis to further reveal the molecular evolution and biological function of the Trihelix transcription factor family.
Sorghum is a versatile cereal crop, with excellent heat and drought tolerance. However, it is susceptible to early-season cold stress (12-15 °C) which limits stand-establishment and seedling growth. To gain further insights on the molecular mechanism of cold tolerance in sorghum we performed transcriptome profiling between known cold sensitive and tolerant sorghum lines using RNA sequencing technology under control and cold stress treatments. Here we report on the identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between contrasting sorghum genotypes, HongkeZi (cold tolerant) and BTx623 (cold sensitive) under cool and control temperatures using RNAseq approach to elucidate the molecular basis of sorghum response to cold stress. Furthermore, we validated bi-allelic variants in the form of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) between the cold susceptible and tolerant lines of sorghum. An analysis of transcriptome profile showed that in response to cold, a total of 1910 DEGs were detected under cold and control temperatures in both genotypes. We identified a subset of genes under cold stress for downstream analysis, including transcription factors that exhibit differential abundance between the sensitive and tolerant genotypes. We identified transcription factors including Dehydration-responsive element-binding factors, C-repeat binding factors, and Ethylene responsive transcription factors as significantly upregulated during cold stress in cold tolerant HKZ. Additionally, specific genes such as plant cytochromes, glutathione s-transferases, and heat shock proteins were found differentially regulated under cold stress between cold tolerant and susceptible genotype of sorghum. A total of 41,603 SNP were identified between the cold sensitive and tolerant genotypes with minimum read of four. Approximately 89 % of the 114 SNP sites selected for evaluation were validated using endpoint genotyping technology. A new strategy which involved an integrated analysis of differential gene expression and identification of bi-allelic single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) was conducted to determine and analyze differentially expressed genes and variation involved in cold stress response of sorghum. The results gathered provide an insight into the complex mechanisms associated with cold response in sorghum, which involve an array of transcription factors and genes which were previously related to abiotic stress response. This study also offers resource for gene based SNP that can be applied towards targeted genomic studies of cold tolerance in sorghum and other cereal crops.
Global climate change, increasingly erratic weather and a burgeoning global population are significant threats to the sustainability of future crop production. There is an urgent need for the development of robust measures that enable crops to withstand the uncertainty of climate change whilst still producing maximum yields. Resurrection plants possess the unique ability to withstand desiccation for prolonged periods, can be restored upon watering and represent great potential for the development of stress tolerant crops. Here, we describe the remarkable stress characteristics of Tripogon loliiformis, an uncharacterised resurrection grass and close relative of the economically important cereals, rice, sorghum, and maize. We show that T. loliiformis survives extreme environmental stress by implementing autophagy to prevent Programmed Cell Death. Notably, we identified a novel role for trehalose in the regulation of autophagy in T.loliiformis. Transcriptome, Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry, immunoblotting and confocal microscopy analyses directly linked the accumulation of trehalose with the onset of autophagy in dehydrating and desiccated T. loliiformis shoots. These results were supported in vitro with the observation of autophagosomes in trehalose treated T. loliiformis leaves; autophagosomes were not detected in untreated samples. Presumably, once induced, autophagy promotes desiccation tolerance in T.loliiformis, by removal of cellular toxins to suppress programmed cell death and the recycling of nutrients to delay the onset of senescence. These findings illustrate how resurrection plants manipulate sugar metabolism to promote desiccation tolerance and may provide candidate genes that are potentially useful for the development of stress tolerant crops.
Drought stress is the major environmental stress that affects more and more frequently plant growth and productivity due to the current climate change scenario. Unravelling the physiological mechanism underlying the response of plants to water stress and discover traits related to drought tolerance provide new and powerful tools for the selection in breeding programmes. Four genotypes of Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench were screened in a dry-down experiment using different approaches to discover physiological and molecular indicators of drought tolerance. Different strategies were identified in response to drought among the four genotypes and the two Sorghum race allowing to state the tolerance of durra race compared to the caudatum one and, within the durra race, the drought tolerance of the genotype IS22330. It retained high biomass production and high tolerance index, it had a low threshold of fraction of transpirable soil water and high capacity to recover leaf apparatus after drought stress. Furthermore in this study, the expression levels of four genes highlighted that they could be used as proxy for drought tolerance. Dehdrine (DHN) could be used for screening drought tolerance both in durra and in caudatum races. NADP-Malic Enzyme, Carbonic Anhydrase (CA) and Plasma membrane Intrinsic Protein (PIP2-5), being up-regulated by drought stress only in durra race, have a more limited, though nonetheless useful application. In the tolerant durra genotype IS22330 in particular, the regulation of stomatal openings was strongly related to NADP-Malic Enzyme expression.
Carbohydrates are differentially partitioned in sweet versus grain sorghums. While the latter preferentially accumulate starch in the grain, the former primarily store large amounts of sucrose in the stem. Previous work determined that neither sucrose metabolizing enzymes nor changes in Sucrose transporter (SUT) gene expression accounted for the carbohydrate partitioning differences. Recently, 2 additional classes of sucrose transport proteins, Tonoplast Sugar Transporters (TSTs) and SWEETs, were identified; thus, we examined whether their expression tracked sucrose accumulation in sweet sorghum stems. We determined 2 TSTs were differentially expressed in sweet vs. grain sorghum stems, likely underlying the massive difference in sucrose accumulation. A model illustrating potential roles for different classes of sugar transport proteins in sorghum sugar partitioning is discussed.
Sucrose, as the main product of photosynthesis, plays crucial roles in plant development. Although studies on general metabolism pathway were well documented, less information is available on the genome-wide identification of these genes, their expansion and evolutionary history as well as their biological functions. We focused on four sucrose metabolism related gene families including sucrose synthase, sucrose phosphate synthase, sucrose phosphate phosphatase and UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase. These gene families exhibited different expansion and evolutionary history as their host genomes experienced differentiated rates of the whole genome duplication, tandem and segmental duplication, or mobile element mediated gene gain and loss. They were evolutionarily conserved under purifying selection among species and expression divergence played important roles for gene survival after expansion. However, we have detected recent positive selection during intra-species divergence. Overexpression of 15 sorghum genes in Arabidopsis revealed their roles in biomass accumulation, flowering time control, seed germination and response to high salinity and sugar stresses. Our studies uncovered the molecular mechanisms of gene expansion and evolution and also provided new insight into the role of positive selection in intra-species divergence. Overexpression data revealed novel biological functions of these genes in flowering time control and seed germination under normal and stress conditions.
Several underutilized grasses have excellent potential for use as bioenergy feedstock due to their lignocellulosic biomass. Genomic tools have enabled identification of lignocellulose biosynthesis genes in several sequenced plants. However, the non-availability of whole genome sequence of bioenergy grasses hinders the study on bioenergy genomics and their genomics-assisted crop improvement. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.; Si) is a model crop for studying systems biology of bioenergy grasses. In the present study, a systematic approach has been used for identification of gene families involved in cellulose (CesA/Csl), callose (Gsl) and monolignol biosynthesis (PAL, C4H, 4CL, HCT, C3H, CCoAOMT, F5H, COMT, CCR, CAD) and construction of physical map of foxtail millet. Sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis of identified proteins showed that monolignol biosynthesis proteins were highly diverse, whereas CesA/Csl and Gsl proteins were homologous to rice and Arabidopsis. Comparative mapping of foxtail millet lignocellulose biosynthesis genes with other C4 panicoid genomes revealed maximum homology with switchgrass, followed by sorghum and maize. Expression profiling of candidate lignocellulose genes in response to different abiotic stresses and hormone treatments showed their differential expression pattern, with significant higher expression of SiGsl12, SiPAL2, SiHCT1, SiF5H2, and SiCAD6 genes. Further, due to the evolutionary conservation of grass genomes, the insights gained from the present study could be extrapolated for identifying genes involved in lignocellulose biosynthesis in other biofuel species for further characterization.
The productivity in sorghum is low, owing to various biotic and abiotic constraints. Combining insect resistance with desirable agronomic and morphological traits is important to increase sorghum productivity. Therefore, it is important to understand the variability for various agronomic traits, their heritabilities and nature of gene action to develop appropriate strategies for crop improvement. Therefore, a full diallel set of 10 parents and their 90 crosses including reciprocals were evaluated in replicated trials during the 2013-14 rainy and postrainy seasons. The crosses between the parents with early- and late-flowering flowered early, indicating dominance of earliness for anthesis in the test material used. Association between the shoot fly resistance, morphological, and agronomic traits suggested complex interactions between shoot fly resistance and morphological traits. Significance of the mean sum of squares for GCA (general combining ability) and SCA (specific combining ability) of all the studied traits suggested the importance of both additive and non-additive components in inheritance of these traits. The GCA/SCA, and the predictability ratios indicated predominance of additive gene effects for majority of the traits studied. High broad-sense and narrow-sense heritability estimates were observed for most of the morphological and agronomic traits. The significance of reciprocal combining ability effects for days to 50% flowering, plant height and 100 seed weight, suggested maternal effects for inheritance of these traits. Plant height and grain yield across seasons, days to 50% flowering, inflorescence exsertion, and panicle shape in the postrainy season showed greater specific combining ability variance, indicating the predominance of non-additive type of gene action/epistatic interactions in controlling the expression of these traits. Additive gene action in the rainy season, and dominance in the postrainy season for days to 50% flowering and plant height suggested G X E interactions for these traits.
Plant synthetic biology promises immense technological benefits, including the potential development of a sustainable bio-based economy through the predictive design of synthetic gene circuits. Such circuits are built from quantitatively characterized genetic parts; however, this characterization is a significant obstacle in work with plants because of the time required for stable transformation. We describe a method for rapid quantitative characterization of genetic plant parts using transient expression in protoplasts and dual luciferase outputs. We observed experimental variability in transient-expression assays and developed a mathematical model to describe, as well as statistical normalization methods to account for, this variability, which allowed us to extract quantitative parameters. We characterized >120 synthetic parts in Arabidopsis and validated our method by comparing transient expression with expression in stably transformed plants. We also tested >100 synthetic parts in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) protoplasts, and the results showed that our method works in diverse plant groups. Our approach enables the construction of tunable gene circuits in complex eukaryotic organisms.
Sorghum bicolor is one of the most important crops for food and bioethanol production. Its small diploid genome and resistance to environmental stress make sorghum an attractive model for studying the functional genomics of the Saccharinae and other C4 grasses. We analyzed the domain-based functional annotation of the cDNAs using the gene ontology (GO) categories for molecular function to characterize all the genes cloned in the full-length cDNA library of sorghum. The sorghum cDNA library successfully captured a wide range of cDNA-encoded proteins with various functions. To characterize the protein function of newly identified cDNAs, a search of their deduced domains and comparative analyses in the Oryza sativa and Zea mays genomes were carried out. Furthermore, genes on the sense strand corresponding to antisense transcripts were classified based on the GO of molecular function. To add more information about these genes, we have analyzed the expression profiles using RNA-Seq of three tissues (spikelet, seed and stem) during the starch-filling phase. We performed functional analysis of tissue-specific genes and expression analysis of genes of starch biosynthesis enzymes. This functional analysis of sorghum full-length cDNAs and the transcriptome information will facilitate further analysis of the Saccharinae and grass families.
Flavonoids are a class of distinct compounds produced by plant secondary metabolism that inhibit or promote plant development and have a relationship with auxin transport. We showed that, in terms of root development, Copaifera langsdorffii leaf extracts has an inhibitory effect on most flavonoid components compared with the application of exogenous flavonoids (glycosides and aglycones). These compounds alter the pattern of expression of the SHORT-ROOT and HD-ZIP III transcription factor gene family and cause morpho-physiological alterations in sorghum roots. In addition, to examine the flavonoid auxin interaction in stress, we correlated the responses with the effects of exogenous application of auxin and an auxin transport inhibitor. The results show that exogenous flavonoids inhibit primary root growth and increase the development of lateral roots. Exogenous flavonoids also change the pattern of expression of specific genes associated with root tissue differentiation. These findings indicate that flavonoid glycosides can influence the polar transport of auxin, leading to stress responses that depend on auxin.
Osmopriming with PEG has potential to improve seed germination, seedling emergence, and establishment, especially under stress conditions. This research investigated germination performance, seedling establishment, and effects of osmopriming with PEG on physiology in sorghum seedlings and their association with post-priming stress tolerance under various soil moisture stress conditions. Results showed that seed priming increased the environmental range suitable for sorghum germination and has potential to provide more uniform and synchronous emergence. Physiologically, seed priming strengthened the antioxidant activities of APX, CAT, POD, and SOD, as well as compatible solutes including free amino acid, reducing sugar, proline, soluble sugar, and soluble protein contents. As a result, seed priming reduced lipid peroxidation and stabilized the cell membrane, resulting in increased stress tolerance under drought or excessive soil moisture environments. Overall, results suggested that seed priming with PEG was effective in improving seed germination and seedling establishment of sorghum under adverse soil moisture conditions. Osmopriming effectively strengthened the antioxidant system and increased osmotic adjustment, likely resulting in increased stress tolerance.
Leaves of C4 crops usually have higher radiation, water and nitrogen use efficiencies compared to the C3 species. Engineering C4 traits into C3 crops has been proposed as one of the most promising ways to repeal the biomass yield ceiling. To better understand the function of C4 photosynthesis, and to identify candidate genes that are associated with the C4 pathways, a comparative transcription network analysis was conducted on leaf developmental gradients of three C4 species including maize, green foxtail and sorghum and one C3 species, rice. By combining the methods of gene co-expression and differentially co-expression networks, we identified a total of 128 C4 specific genes. Besides the classic C4 shuttle genes, a new set of genes associated with light reaction, starch and sucrose metabolism, metabolites transportation, as well as transcription regulation, were identified as involved in C4 photosynthesis. These findings will provide important insights into the differential gene regulation between C3 and C4 species, and a good genetic resource for establishing C4 pathways in C3 crops.
Stripe rust, a highly destructive foliar disease of wheat (Triticum aestivum), causes severe losses, which may be accompanied by reduced photosynthetic activity and accelerated leaf senescence. We used suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) to examine the mechanisms of resistance in the resistant wheat line L693 (Reg. No. GP-972, PI 672538), which was derived from a lineage that includes a wide cross between common and Thinopyrum intermedium. Sequencing of an SSH cDNA library identified 112 expressed sequence tags. In silico mapping placed one of these tags [GenBank: JK972238] on chromosome 1A. Primers based on [GenBank: JK972238] amplified a polymorphic band, which co-segregated with YrL693. We cloned a candidate gene encoding wheat copper-binding protein (WCBP1) by amplifying the polymorphic region, and we mapped WCBP1 to a 0.64 cM genetic interval. Brachypodium, rice, and sorghum have genes and genomic regions syntenic to this region. Sequence analysis suggested that the resistant WCBP1 allele might have resulted from a deletion of 36-bp sequence of the wheat genomic sequence, rather than direct transfer from Th. intermedium. qRT-PCR confirmed that WCBP1 expression changes in response to pathogen infection. The unique chromosomal location and expression mode of WCBP1 suggested that WCBP1 is the putative candidate gene of YrL693, which was involved in leaf senescence and photosynthesis related to plant responses to stripe rust infection during the grain-filling stage.
Brown midrib mutants in sorghum are associated with reduced lignin content and increased cell wall digestibility. In this study, we characterized a bmr-6 sorghum mutant, which shows reddish pigment in the midrib and stem after the fifth-leaf stage. Compared to wild type, Kalson lignin content of bmr-6 is decreased significantly. We used histological analysis to determine that the mutant exhibited a modified pattern of lignin staining and found an increased polysaccharide content. We cloned BMR-6 gene, a gene encoded a cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD), using a map-based cloning approach. Genetic complementation confirmed that CAD is responsible for the BMR-6 phenotype. BMR-6 gene was expressed in all tested sorghum tissues, with the highest being in midrib and stem. Transient expression assays in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves demonstrated cytomplasmic localization of BMR-6. We found that the expression level of bmr-6 was significantly decreased in the mutant but expression of SbCAD3 and SbCAD5 were significantly increased. Our results indicate that BMR-6 not only affects the distribution of lignin but also the biosynthesis of lignin in sorghum.
An in planta transformation protocol for sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) using shoot apical meristem of germinating seedlings is reported in this study. Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain, LBA4404 with pCAMBIA1303 vector and construct pCAMBIA1303TPS1 were individually used for transformation. Since, the transgene is integrated into the cells of already differentiated tissues, the T 0 plants were chimeric and stable integration was observed in T1 generation. β-Glucuronidase (GUS) expression in the seedlings and spikelets of emerging cob was the first indication of transformability in T0 generation which was further confirmed by PCR analysis using hpt and TPS1 gene-specific primers. Screening on 25 mg/L hygromycin combined with PCR analysis was used for selection of transformants in the T1 generation. Transformation efficiencies ranged between 34-38% and 26-34% using pCAMBIA1303 vector and construct pCAMBIA1303TPS1, respectively. Molecular characterization of the T2 transgenics using PCR, RT-PCR and Southern blot analyses further revealed the integration, expression and inheritance of the transgene. These results indicate the feasibility of the method to generate transgenics with pCAM-BIA1303 vector and construct pCAMBIA1303TPS1. The abiotic stress tolerance of TPS1 transgenics developed in the present study was evident by the ability of the transformants to tolerate 200 mM NaCl as well as higher root growth and biomass.
Smut fungi are biotrophic plant pathogens that exhibit a very narrow host range. The smut fungus Sporisorium reilianum exists in two host-adapted formae speciales: S. reilianum f. sp. reilianum (SRS), which causes head smut of sorghum, and S. reilianum f. sp. zeae (SRZ), which induces disease on maize. It is unknown why the two formae speciales cannot form spores on their respective non-favoured hosts. By fungal DNA quantification and fluorescence microscopy of stained plant samples, we followed the colonization behaviour of both SRS and SRZ on sorghum and maize. Both formae speciales were able to penetrate and multiply in the leaves of both hosts. In sorghum, the hyphae of SRS reached the apical meristems, whereas the hyphae of SRZ did not. SRZ strongly induced several defence responses in sorghum, such as the generation of H2 O2 , callose and phytoalexins, whereas the hyphae of SRS did not. In maize, both SRS and SRZ were able to spread through the plant to the apical meristem. Transcriptome analysis of colonized maize leaves revealed more genes induced by SRZ than by SRS, with many of them being involved in defence responses. Amongst the maize genes specifically induced by SRS were 11 pentatricopeptide repeat proteins. Together with the microscopic analysis, these data indicate that SRZ succumbs to plant defence after sorghum penetration, whereas SRS proliferates in a relatively undisturbed manner, but non-efficiently, on maize. This shows that host specificity is determined by distinct mechanisms in sorghum and maize.
Protein functional diversity at the post-transcriptional level is regulated through spliceosome mediated pre-mRNA alternative splicing (AS) events and that has been widely demonstrated to be a key player in regulating the functional diversity in plants. Identification and analysis of AS genes in cereal crop plants are critical for crop improvement and understanding regulatory mechanisms. We carried out the comparative analyses of the functional landscapes of the AS using the consensus assembly of expressed sequence tags and available mRNA sequences in four cereal plants. We identified a total of 8,734 in Oryza sativa subspecies (ssp) japonica, 2,657 in O. sativa ssp indica, 3,971 in Sorghum bicolor, and 10,687 in Zea mays AS genes. Among the identified AS events, intron retention remains to be the dominant type accounting for 23.5 % in S. bicolor, and up to 55.8 % in O. sativa ssp indica. We identified a total of 887 AS genes that were conserved among Z. mays, S. bicolor, and O. sativa ssp japonica; and 248 AS genes were found to be conserved among all four studied species or ssp. Furthermore, we identified 53 AS genes conserved with Brachypodium distachyon. Gene Ontology classification of AS genes revealed functional assignment of these genes in many biological processes with diverse molecular functions. AS is common in cereal plants. The AS genes identified in four cereal crops in this work provide the foundation for further studying the roles of AS in regulation of cereal plant growth and development. The data can be accessed at Plant Alternative Splicing Database (http://proteomics.ysu.edu/altsplice/).
Understanding the relationship between acid detergent lignin (ADL) and lodging resistance index (LRI) is essential for breeding new varieties of brown midrib (bmr) sudangrass (Sorghum sudanense (Piper) Stapf.). In this study, bmr-12 near isogenic lines and their wild-types obtained by back cross breeding were used to compare relevant forage yield and quality traits, and to analyze expression of the caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene using quantitative real time-PCR. The research showed that the mean ADL content of bmr-12 mutants (20.94 g kg(-1)) was significantly (P < 0.05) lower than measured in N-12 lines (43.45 g kg(-1)), whereas the LRI of bmr-12 mutants (0.29) was significantly (P < 0.05) higher than in N-12 lines (0.22). There was no significant correlation between the two indexes in bmr-12 materials (r = -0.44, P > 0.05). Sequence comparison of the COMT gene revealed two point mutations present in bmr-12 but not in the wild-type, the second mutation changed amino acid 129 of the protein from Gln (CAG) to a stop codon (UAG). The relative expression level of COMT gene was significantly reduced, which likely led to the decreased ADL content observed in the bmr-12 mutant.
Sorghum bicolor is an important cereal crop grown on the arid and semi-arid regions of >98 different countries. These regions are such that this crop is often subjected to low water conditions, which can compromise yields. Stay-green sorghum plants are able to retain green leaf area for longer under drought conditions and as such have higher yields than their senescent counterparts. However, the molecular and physiological basis of this drought tolerance is yet to be fully understood. Here, a transcriptomic approach was used to compare gene expression between stay-green (B35) and senescent (R16) sorghum varieties. Ontological analysis of the differentially expressed transcripts identified an enrichment of genes involved with the 'response to osmotic stress' Gene Ontology (GO) category. In particular, delta1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthase 2 (P5CS2) was highly expressed in the stay-green line compared with the senescent line, and this high expression was correlated with higher proline levels. Comparisons of the differentially expressed genes with those that lie in known stay-green qualitative trait loci (QTLs) revealed that P5CS2 lies within the Stg1 QTL. Polymorphisms in known cis-elements were identified in the putative promoter region of P5CS2 and these could be responsible for the differences in the expression of this gene. This study provides greater insight into the stay-green trait in sorghum. This will be greatly beneficial not only to improve our understanding of drought tolerance mechanisms in sorghum, but also to facilitate the improvement of future sorghum cultivars by marker-assisted selection (MAS).
Drought stress triggers mature leaf senescence, which supports plant survival and remobilization of nutrients; yet leaf senescence also critically decreases post-drought crop yield. Drought generally results in carbon/nitrogen imbalance, which is reflected in the increased carbon:nitrogen (C:N) ratio in mature leaves, and which has been shown to be involved in inducing leaf senescence under normal growth conditions. Yet the involvement of the carbon/nitrogen balance in regulation of drought-induced leaf senescence is unclear. To investigate the role of carbon/nitrogen balance in drought-induced senescence, sorghum seedlings were subjected to a gradual soil drought treatment. Leaf senescence symptoms and the C:N ratio, which was indicated by the ratio of non-structural carbohydrate to total N content, were monitored during drought progression. In this study, leaf senescence developed about 12 days after the start of drought treatment, as indicated by various senescence symptoms including decreasing photosynthesis, photosystem II photochemistry efficiency (Fv/Fm) and chlorophyll content, and by the differential expression of senescence marker genes. The C:N ratio was significantly enhanced 10 to 12 days into drought treatment. Leaf senescence occurred in the older (lower) leaves, which had higher C:N ratios, but not in the younger (upper) leaves, which had lower C:N ratios. In addition, a detached leaf assay was conducted to investigate the effect of carbon/nitrogen availability on drought-induced senescence. Exogenous application of excess sugar combined with limited nitrogen promoted drought-induced leaf senescence. Thus our results suggest that the carbon/nitrogen balance may be involved in the regulation of drought-induced leaf senescence.
Maize is a major staple food crop globally and contains various concentrations of vitamins. Folates are essential water-soluble B-vitamins that play an important role as one-carbon (C1) donors and acceptors in organisms. To gain an understanding of folate metabolism in maize, we performed an intensive in silico analysis to screen for genes involved in folate metabolism using publicly available databases, followed by examination of the transcript expression patterns and profiling of the folate derivatives in the kernels of two maize inbred lines. A total of 36 candidate genes corresponding to 16 folate metabolism-related enzymes were identified. The maize genome contains all the enzymes required for folate and C1 metabolism, characterized by highly conserved functional domains across all the other species investigated. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that these enzymes in maize are conserved throughout evolution and have a high level of similarity with those in sorghum and millet. The LC-MS analyses of two maize inbred lines demonstrated that 5-methyltetrahydrofolate was the major form of folate derivative in young seeds, while 5-formyltetrahydrofolate in mature seeds. Most of the genes involved in folate and C1 metabolism exhibited similar transcriptional expression patterns between these two maize lines, with the highest transcript abundance detected on day after pollination (DAP) 6 and the decreased transcript abundance on DAP 12 and 18. Compared with the seeds on DAP 30, 5-methyltetrahydrofolate was decreased and 5-formyltetrahydrofolate was increased sharply in the mature dry seeds. The enzymes involved in folate and C1 metabolism are conserved between maize and other plant species. Folate and C1 metabolism is active in young developing maize seeds at transcriptional levels.
Small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) namely microRNAs (miRNAs) and trans-acting small interfering RNAs (tasi-RNAs) play a crucial role in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression and thus the control plant development and stress responses. In order to identify drought-responsive miRNAs and tasi-RNAs in sorghum, we constructed small RNA libraries from a drought tolerant (M35-1) and susceptible (C43) sorghum genotypes grown under control and drought stress conditions, and sequenced by Illumina Genome Analyzer IIx. Ninety seven conserved and 526 novel miRNAs representing 472 unique miRNA families were identified from sorghum. Ninety-six unique miRNAs were found to be regulated by drought stress, of which 32 were up- and 49 were down-regulated (fold change ≥ 2 or ≤ -2) at least in one genotype, while the remaining 15 miRNAs showed contrasting drought-regulated expression pattern between genotypes. A maximum of 17 and 18 miRNAs was differentially regulated under drought stress condition in the sensitive and tolerant genotypes, respectively. These results suggest that genotype dependent stress responsive regulation of miRNAs may contribute, at least in part, to the differential drought tolerance of sorghum genotypes. We also identified two miR390-directed TAS3 gene homologs and the auxin response factors as tasi-RNA targets. We predicted more than 1300 unique target genes for the novel and conserved miRNAs. These target genes were predicted to be involved in different cellular, metabolic, response to stimulus, biological regulation, and developmental processes. Genome-wide identification of stress-responsive miRNAs, tasi-RNAs and their targets identified in this study will be useful in unraveling the molecular mechanisms underlying drought stress responses and genetic improvement of biomass production and stress tolerance in sorghum.
Carotenoids are crucial for plant growth and human health. The finding of ORANGE (OR) protein as a pivotal regulator of carotenogenesis offers a unique opportunity to comprehensively understand the regulatory mechanisms of carotenoid accumulation and develop crops with enhanced nutritional quality. Here, we demonstrated that alteration of a single amino acid in a wild-type OR greatly enhanced its ability to promote carotenoid accumulation. Whereas overexpression of OR from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana; AtOR) or from the agronomically important crop sorghum (Sorghum bicolor; SbOR) increased carotenoid levels up to 2-fold, expression of AtOR(His) (R90H) or SbOR(His) (R104H) variants dramatically enhanced carotenoid accumulation by up to 7-fold in the Arabidopsis calli. Moreover, we found that AtOR(Ala) (R90A) functioned similarly to AtOR(His) to promote carotenoid overproduction. Neither AtOR nor AtOR(His) greatly affected carotenogenic gene expression. AtOR(His) exhibited similar interactions with phytoene synthase (PSY) as AtOR in posttranscriptionally regulating PSY protein abundance. AtOR(His) triggered biogenesis of membranous chromoplasts in the Arabidopsis calli, which shared structures similar to chromoplasts found in the curd of the orange cauliflower (Brassica oleracea) mutant. By contrast, AtOR did not cause plastid-type changes in comparison with the controls, but produced plastids containing larger and electron-dense plastoglobuli. The unique ability of AtOR(His) in mediating chromoplast biogenesis is responsible for its induced carotenoid overproduction. Our study demonstrates OR(His/Ala) as powerful tools for carotenoid enrichment in plants, and provides insights into the mechanisms underlying OR(His)-regulated carotenoid accumulation.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) cultivars store non-structural carbohydrates predominantly as either starch in seeds (grain sorghums) or sugars in stems (sweet sorghums). Previous research determined that sucrose accumulation in sweet sorghum stems was not correlated with the activities of enzymes functioning in sucrose metabolism, and that an apoplasmic transport step may be involved in stem sucrose accumulation. However, the sucrose unloading pathway from stem phloem to storage parenchyma cells remains unelucidated. Sucrose transporters (SUTs) transport sucrose across membranes, and have been proposed to function in sucrose partitioning differences between sweet and grain sorghums. The purpose of this study was to characterize the key differences in carbohydrate accumulation between a sweet and a grain sorghum, to define the path sucrose may follow for accumulation in sorghum stems, and to determine the roles played by sorghum SUTs in stem sucrose accumulation. Dye tracer studies to determine the sucrose transport route revealed that, for both the sweet sorghum cultivar Wray and grain sorghum cultivar Macia, the phloem in the stem veins was symplasmically isolated from surrounding cells, suggesting sucrose was apoplasmically unloaded. Once in the phloem apoplasm, a soluble tracer diffused from the vein to stem parenchyma cell walls, indicating the lignified mestome sheath encompassing the vein did not prevent apoplasmic flux outside of the vein. To characterize carbohydrate partitioning differences between Wray and Macia, we compared the growth, stem juice volume, solute contents, SbSUTs gene expression, and additional traits. Contrary to previous findings, we detected no significant differences in SbSUTs gene expression within stem tissues. Phloem sieve tubes within sweet and grain sorghum stems are symplasmically isolated from surrounding cells; hence, unloading from the phloem likely occurs apoplasmically, thereby defining the location of the previously postulated step for sucrose transport. Additionally, no changes in SbSUTs gene expression were detected in sweet vs. grain sorghum stems, suggesting alterations in SbSUT transcript levels do not account for the carbohydrate partitioning differences between cultivars. A model illustrating sucrose phloem unloading and movement to stem storage parenchyma, and highlighting roles for sucrose transport proteins in sorghum stems is discussed.
Stress tolerance in plants is a coordinated action of multiple stress response genes that also cross talk with other components of the stress signal transduction pathways. The expression and regulation of stress-induced genes are largely regulated by specific transcription factors, families of which have been reported in several plant species, such as Arabidopsis, rice and Populus. In sorghum, the majority of such factors remain unexplored. We used 2DE refined with MALDI-TOF techniques to analyze drought stress-induced proteins in sorghum. A total of 176 transcription factors from the MYB, AUX_ARF, bZIP, AP2 and WRKY families of drought-induced proteins were identified. We developed a method based on semantic similarity of gene ontology terms (GO terms) to identify the transcription factors. A threshold value (≥ 90%) was applied to retrieve total 1,493 transcription factors with high semantic similarity from selected plant species. It could be concluded that the identified transcription factors regulate their target proteins with endogenous signals and environmental cues, such as light, temperature and drought stress. The regulatory network and cis-acting elements of the identified transcription factors in distinct families are involved in responsiveness to auxin, abscisic acid, defense, stress and light. These responses may be highly important in the modulation of plant growth and development.
Here, we show a mechanism for expansion regulation through mutations in the green revolution gene gibberellin20 (GA20)-oxidase and show that GAs control biosynthesis of the plants main structural polymer cellulose. Within a 12,000 mutagenized Sorghum bicolor plant population, we identified a single cellulose-deficient and male gametophyte-dysfunctional mutant named dwarf1-1 (dwf1-1). Through the Sorghum propinquum male/dwf1-1 female F2 population, we mapped dwf1-1 to a frameshift in GA20-oxidase. Assessment of GAs in dwf1-1 revealed ablation of GA. GA ablation was antagonistic to the expression of three specific cellulose synthase genes resulting in cellulose deficiency and growth dwarfism, which were complemented by exogenous bioactive gibberellic acid application. Using quantitative polymerase chain reaction, we found that GA was positively regulating the expression of a subset of specific cellulose synthase genes. To cross reference data from our mapped Sorghum sp. allele with another monocotyledonous plant, a series of rice (Oryza sativa) mutants involved in GA biosynthesis and signaling were isolated, and these too displayed cellulose deficit. Taken together, data support a model whereby suppressed expansion in green revolution GA genes involves regulation of cellulose biosynthesis.
Sweet sorghum is an annual C4 crop considered to be one of the most promising bio-energy crops due to its high sugar content in stem, yet it is poorly understood how this plant increases its sugar content in response to salt stress. In response to high NaCl, many of its major processes, such as photosynthesis, protein synthesis, energy and lipid metabolism, are inhibited. Interestingly, sugar content in sweet sorghum stems remains constant or even increases in several salt-tolerant species. In this study, the transcript profiles of two sweet sorghum inbred lines (salt-tolerant M-81E and salt-sensitive Roma) were analyzed in the presence of 0 mM or 150 mM NaCl in order to elucidate the molecular mechanisms that lead to higher sugar content during salt stress. We identified 864 and 930 differentially expressed genes between control plants and those subjected to salt stress in both M-81E and Roma strains. We determined that the majority of these genes are involved in photosynthesis, carbon fixation, and starch and sucrose metabolism. Genes important for maintaining photosystem structure and for regulating electron transport were less affected by salt stress in the M-81E line compared to the salt-sensitive Roma line. In addition, expression of genes encoding NADP(+)-malate enzyme and sucrose synthetase was up-regulated and expression of genes encoding invertase was down-regulated under salt stress in M-81E. In contrast, the expression of these genes showed the opposite trend in Roma under salt stress. The results we obtained revealed that the salt-tolerant genotype M-81E leads to increased sugar content under salt stress by protecting important structures of photosystems, by enhancing the accumulation of photosynthetic products, by increasing the production of sucrose synthetase and by inhibiting sucrose decomposition.
Arabinoxylans (AXs) are major components of plant cell walls in bread wheat and are important in bread-making and starch extraction. Furthermore, arabinoxylans are components of soluble dietary fibre that has potential health-promoting effects in human nutrition. Despite their high value for human health, few studies have been carried out on the genetics of AX content in durum wheat. The genetic variability of AX content was investigated in a set of 104 tetraploid wheat genotypes and regions attributable to AX content were identified through a genome wide association study (GWAS). The amount of arabinoxylan, expressed as percentage (w/w) of the dry weight of the kernel, ranged from 1.8% to 5.5% with a mean value of 4.0%. The GWAS revealed a total of 37 significant marker-trait associations (MTA), identifying 19 quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with AX content. The highest number of MTAs was identified on chromosome 5A (seven), where three QTL regions were associated with AX content, while the lowest number of MTAs was detected on chromosomes 2B and 4B, where only one MTA identified a single locus. Conservation of synteny between SNP marker sequences and the annotated genes and proteins in Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa and Sorghum bicolor allowed the identification of nine QTL coincident with candidate genes. These included a glycosyl hydrolase GH35, which encodes Gal7 and a glucosyltransferase GT31 on chromosome 1A; a cluster of GT1 genes on chromosome 2B that includes TaUGT1 and cisZog1; a glycosyl hydrolase that encodes a CelC gene on chromosome 3A; Ugt12887 and TaUGT1genes on chromosome 5A; a (1,3)-β-D-glucan synthase (Gsl12 gene) and a glucosyl hydrolase (Cel8 gene) on chromosome 7A. This study identifies significant MTAs for the AX content in the grain of tetraploid wheat genotypes. We propose that these may be used for molecular breeding of durum wheat varieties with higher soluble fibre content.
The presence of lignin reduces the quality of lignocellulosic biomass for forage materials and feedstock for biofuels. In C4 grasses, the brown midrib phenotype has been linked to mutations to genes in the monolignol biosynthesis pathway. For example, the Bmr6 gene in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) has been previously shown to encode cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD), which catalyzes the final step of the monolignol biosynthesis pathway. Mutations in this gene have been shown to reduce the abundance of lignin, enhance digestibility, and improve saccharification efficiencies and ethanol yields. Nine sorghum lines harboring five different bmr6 alleles were identified in an EMS-mutagenized TILLING population. DNA sequencing of Bmr6 revealed that the majority of the mutations impacted evolutionarily conserved amino acids while three-dimensional structural modeling predicted that all of these alleles interfered with the enzyme's ability to bind with its NADPH cofactor. All of the new alleles reduced in vitro CAD activity levels and enhanced glucose yields following saccharification. Further, many of these lines were associated with higher reductions in acid detergent lignin compared to lines harboring the previously characterized bmr6-ref allele. These bmr6 lines represent new breeding tools for manipulating biomass composition to enhance forage and feedstock quality.
Rice blast, caused by the ascomycete fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, is one of the most serious rice diseases worldwide. We previously developed an elite hybrid rice restorer line with high resistance to rice blast, Yahui2115 (YH2115). To identify the blast resistance genes in YH2115, we first performed expression profiling on previously reported blast resistance genes and disease assay on monogenic lines, and we found that Pi2, Pi9, and Pikm were the most likely resistance candidates in YH2115. Furthermore, RNA interference and linkage analysis demonstrated that silencing of Pi2 reduced the blast resistance of YH2115 and a Pi2 linkage marker was closely associated with blast resistance in an F2 population generated from YH2115. These data suggest that the broad-spectrum blast resistance gene Pi2 contributes greatly to the blast resistance of YH2115. Thus, YH2115 could be used as a new germplasm to facilitate rice blast resistance breeding in hybrid rice breeding programs.
Modifications in root morphology are important strategies to maximize soil exploitation under phosphorus starvation in plants. Here, we used two multiple interval models to map QTLs related to root traits, biomass accumulation and P content in a maize RIL population cultivated in nutrient solution. In addition, we searched for putative maize homologs to PSTOL1, a gene responsible to enhance early root growth, P uptake and grain yield in rice and sorghum. Based on path analysis, root surface area was the root morphology component that most strongly contributed to total dry weight and to P content in maize seedling under low-P availability. Multiple interval mapping models for single (MIM) and multiple traits (MT-MIM) were combined and revealed 13 genomic regions significantly associated with the target traits in a complementary way. The phenotypic variances explained by all QTLs and their epistatic interactions using MT-MIM (23.4 to 35.5 %) were higher than in previous studies, and presented superior statistical power. Some of these QTLs were coincident with QTLs for root morphology traits and grain yield previously mapped, whereas others harbored ZmPSTOL candidate genes, which shared more than 55 % of amino acid sequence identity and a conserved serine/threonine kinase domain with OsPSTOL1. Additionally, four ZmPSTOL candidate genes co-localized with QTLs for root morphology, biomass accumulation and/or P content were preferentially expressed in roots of the parental lines that contributed the alleles enhancing the respective phenotypes. QTL mapping strategies adopted in this study revealed complementary results for single and multiple traits with high accuracy. Some QTLs, mainly the ones that were also associated with yield performance in other studies, can be good targets for marker-assisted selection to improve P-use efficiency in maize. Based on the co-localization with QTLs, the protein domain conservation and the coincidence of gene expression, we selected novel maize genes as putative homologs to PSTOL1 that will require further validation studies.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to play important roles in plant development, growth and stress response. Sweet sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] is an important source of bioenergy due to the high sugar content in its stems. However, it is not clear how the miRNA is involved in sugar accumulation in sorghum stems. In order to identify the miRNAs in the stems and the leaves of sweet sorghum, we extracted RNAs of the stems and leaves of sweet sorghum (Rio) and grain sorghum (BTx623) at the heading and dough stages for high-throughput sequencing. A total of 179279048 reads were obtained from Illumina-based sequencing. Further analysis identified nine known miRNAs and twelve novel miRNAs that showed significantly and specifically differentially expressed in the stems of sweet sorghum. The target genes of the differentially expressed novel miRNAs include the transcription factor, glucosyltransferase, protein kinase, cytochrome P450, transporters etc. GO enrichment analysis showed that the predicted targets of these differentially expressed miRNAs participated in diverse physiological and metabolic processes. We performed RT-qRCR analysis on these miRNAs across eight different libraries to validate the miRNAs. Finally, we screened stem-specifically expressed novel miRNA and a leaf-specifically expressed novel miRNA in sweet sorghum comparing with grain sorghum. Our results provide a basis for further investigation of the potential role of these individual miRNAs in sugar accumulation.
Sequence analysis revealed that an SNP (A1855G) in CsBADH of cucumber accession PK2011T202 causes amino acid change in a highly conserved motif, Y163C. Gene mapping showed association between the SNP and the fragrance. Pandan-like fragrance is a value-added trait in several food crops such as rice, vegetable soybean and sorghum. The fragrance is caused by the volatile chemical 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP). Mutation(s) in betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (BADH2; also known as aminoaldehyde dehydrogenase 2) gene causes defective BADH2 and results in biosynthesis of 2AP. Recently, cucumber cultivars possessing pandan-like fragrance were discovered in Thailand. In this study, we report an association between CsBADH and the fragrance in cucumber accession "PK2011T202". Gene expression analysis of CsBADH in leaves of PK2011T202 and "301176" (non-fragrant) at various growth stages revealed that CsBADH was expressed in both accessions. Sequence comparison of CsBADH showed that PK2011T202 possesses a single base substitution (A1855G) in exon 5 which causes an amino acid change in a highly conserved motif of BADH, Y163C. Single nucleotide-amplified polymorphism markers were developed to detect the SNP polymorphism between the wild-type and fragrance alleles. Since CsBADH is located on chromosome 1, quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping was conducted for this chromosome using an F2 and a backcross populations developed from the cross between PK2011T202 and 301176. QTL analysis in both populations showed that the major QTL for fragrance, qFgr, was co-localized with the CsBADH. We concluded that the defect function of CsBADH is responsible for fragrance in cucumber PK2011T202.
This study describes the first detailed molecular characterization of the heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) gene from Sorghum bicolor, MN1618 designated as SbHsp70-1. The full-length cDNA of SbHsp70-1 consists of 2524 bp with a 1950 bp open reading frame, which encodes a protein of 649 amino acids. SbHsp70-1 is a cytoplasmic protein with high homology to other plant Hsp70s, especially grain crops. Recombinant SbHsp70-1 was able to bind and hydrolyse ATP in a dose-dependent manner, suggesting that SbHsp70-1 functions as an ATPase. Immunoblot assays showed that the expression of SbHsp70-1 is induced at temperatures of 37, 45, and 4 °C but reduced at 42 °C. In addition, the SbHsp70-1 mRNA transcript is constitutively expressed in both leaves and stem but is significantly increased upon heat shock at 42 °C. Upon cold shock at 4 °C, SbHsp70-1 mRNA transcript level increased in the leaf, but no significant change was observed in the stem. In addition, expression of the pET28a-SbHsp70-1 construct in Escherichia coli cells under heat stress resulted in their survival even at higher temperature (65 °C). Our results suggest that SbHsp70-1 is a heat-inducible protein that confer thermal tolerance to bacterial cells and can be claimed as a promising target to study stress tolerance in crops.
Plant breeding relies on creation of novel allelic combinations for desired traits. Identification and utilization of beneficial alleles, rare alleles and evolutionarily conserved genes in the germplasm (referred to as 'hidden' genes) provide an effective approach to achieve this goal. Here we show that a chemically induced null mutation in an evolutionarily conserved gene, FUWA, alters multiple important agronomic traits in rice, including panicle architecture, grain shape and grain weight. FUWA encodes an NHL domain-containing protein, with preferential expression in the root meristem, shoot apical meristem and inflorescences, where it restricts excessive cell division. Sequence analysis revealed that FUWA has undergone a bottleneck effect, and become fixed in landraces and modern cultivars during domestication and breeding. We further confirm a highly conserved role of FUWA homologs in determining panicle architecture and grain development in rice, maize and sorghum through genetic transformation. Strikingly, knockdown of the FUWA transcription level by RNA interference results in an erect panicle and increased grain size in both indica and japonica genetic backgrounds. This study illustrates an approach to create new germplasm with improved agronomic traits for crop breeding by tapping into evolutionary conserved genes.
Heritable phenotypic alterations occurring during plant ontogenesis under the influence of environmental factors are among the most intriguing genetic phenomena. It was found that male-sterile sorghum hybrids in the 9E cytoplasm from the F1 and F2 generations, which were obtained by crossing CMS lines with different fertile lines grown in field conditions, were transferred to greenhouse produce fertile tillers. Lines created by the self-pollination of revertant tillers exhibit complete male fertility upon cultivation under various environments (in the field, Tdry plot,(y) Tirrigated plot(y)). In a number of test-crosses of revertants to CMS lines in the 9E cytoplasm, restoration of male fertility in F1 hybrids was found, indicating that revertants possess functional fertility-restoring genes. A high positive correlation was found between the fertility level of the test-cross hybrids and the hydrothermal coefficient (the ratio of the sum of precipitation to the sum of temperatures) during the booting stage and pollen maturation (r = 0.75...0.91; P<0.01), suggesting that a high level of plant water availability is needed for the expression of fertility-restoring genes of revertants. These data show that the fertility-restoring genes for the 9E cytoplasm are dominant in conditions of high water availability and recessive in drought conditions; reversions to male fertility are due to up-regulation of fertility-restoring genes by a high level of water availability. Comparative MSAP-analysis of DNA of male-sterile and male-fertile test-cross hybrids using HpaII/MspI restrictases and primers to polygalacturonase gene ADPG2, which is required for cell separation during reproductive development, and gene MYB46, the transcription factor regulating secondary wall biosynthesis, revealed differences in the number and the length of amplified fragments. Changes in the methylation of these genes in conditions of drought stress are apparently the reason for male sterility of sorghum hybrids in the 9E cytoplasm. These data demonstrate that methylation of nuclear genes in sterility-inducing cytoplasm may be one of mechanisms causing the CMS phenomenon.
Plants produce a group of aldoxime metabolites that are well known as volatiles and as intermediates in cyanogenic glycoside and glucosinolate biosynthesis in particular plant families. Recently it has been demonstrated that aldoximes can also accumulate as part of direct plant defense in poplar. Cytochrome P450 enzymes of the CYP79 family were shown to be responsible for the formation of aldoximes from their amino acid precursors. Here we describe the identification and characterization of maize CYP79A61 which was heterologously expressed in yeast and Nicotiana benthamiana and shown to catalyze the formation of (E/Z)-phenylacetaldoxime and (E/Z)-indole-3-acetaldoxime from L-phenylalanine and L-tryptophan, respectively. Simulated herbivory on maize leaves resulted in an increased CYP79A61 transcript accumulation and in elevated levels of L-phenylalanine and (E/Z)-phenylacetaldoxime. Although L-tryptophan levels were also increased after the treatment, (E/Z)-indole-3-acetaldoxime could not be detected in the damaged leaves. However, simulated herbivory caused a significant increase in auxin concentration. Our data suggest that CYP79A61 might contribute to the formation of (E/Z)-phenylacetaldoxime in maize. Since aldoximes have been described as toxic compounds for insect herbivores and pathogens, the increased accumulation of (E/Z)-phenylacetaldoxime after simulated herbivory indicates that this compound plays a role in plant defense. In addition, it is conceivable that (E/Z)-indole-3-acetaldoxime produced by recombinant CYP79A61 could be further converted into the plant hormone indole-3-acetic acid after herbivore feeding in maize.
Allele phylogenetic analysis of the sorghum flowering-time gene PRR37 provided new insight into the human-mediated selection of a key adaptive gene that occurred during sorghum's diversification and worldwide dispersal. The domestication and spread of the tropical cereal sorghum is associated with the historic movement of humans. We show that an allelic series at PRR37 (pseudo-response regulator 37), a circadian clock-associated transcription factor, was selected in long-day ecosystems worldwide to permit floral initiation and grain production. We identified a series of loss-of-function (photoperiod-insensitive) alleles encoding truncated PRR37 proteins, alleles with key amino acid substitutions in the pseudo-receiver domain, and a novel splice variant in which the pseudo-receiver domain is truncated. Each PRR37 allelic variant was traced to a specific geographic location or specialized agronomic type. We present a graphical model that shows evidence of human selection and gene flow of the PRR37 allelic variants during the global dispersal and agronomic diversification of sorghum. With the recent identification of the Ghd7 gene as an important regulator of flowering date in sorghum, we briefly examine whether loss-of-function Ghd7 allelic variants were selected prior to the human-mediated movement of sorghum from its equatorial center of origin to temperate climates worldwide.
Long-established protein-coding genes may lose their coding potential during evolution ("unitary gene loss"). Members of the Poaceae family are a major food source and represent an ideal model clade for plant evolution research. However, the global pattern of unitary gene loss in Poaceae genomes as well as the evolutionary fate of lost genes are still less-investigated and remain largely elusive. Using a locally developed pipeline, we identified 129 unitary gene loss events for long-established protein-coding genes from four representative species of Poaceae, i.e. brachypodium, rice, sorghum and maize. Functional annotation suggested that the lost genes in all or most of Poaceae species are enriched for genes involved in development and response to endogenous stimulus. We also found that 44 mutated genomic loci of lost genes, which we referred as relics, were still actively transcribed, and of which 84% (37 of 44) showed significantly differential expression across different tissues. More interestingly, we found that there were totally five expressed relics may function as competitive endogenous RNA in brachypodium, rice and sorghum genome. Based on comparative genomics and transcriptome data, we firstly compiled a comprehensive catalogue of unitary gene loss events in Poaceae species and characterized a statistically significant functional preference for these lost genes as well showed the potential of relics functioning as competitive endogenous RNAs in Poaceae genomes.
Class III peroxidases (PRXs) are plant-specific enzymes that play key roles in the responses to biotic and abiotic stress during plant growth and development. In this study, we identified 119 nonredundant PRX genes (designated ZmPRXs). These PRX genes were divided into 18 groups based on their phylogenetic relationships. We performed systematic bioinformatics analysis of the PRX genes, including analysis of gene structures, conserved motifs, phylogenetic relationships and gene expression profiles. The ZmPRXs are unevenly distributed on the 10 maize chromosomes. In addition, these genes have undergone 16 segmental duplication and 12 tandem duplication events, indicating that both segmental and tandem duplication were the main contributors to the expansion of the maize PRX family. Ka/Ks analysis suggested that most duplicated ZmPRXs experienced purifying selection, with limited functional divergence during the duplication events, and comparative analysis among maize, sorghum and rice revealed that there were independent duplication events besides the whole-genome duplication of the maize genome. Furthermore, microarray analysis indicated that most highly expressed genes might play significant roles in root. We examined the expression of five candidate ZmPRXs under H2O2, SA, NaCl and PEG stress conditions using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), revealing differential expression patterns. This study provides useful information for further functional analysis of the PRX gene family in maize.
The focus of the review paper is to discuss how biotechnological innovations are opening new frontiers to mitigate nutrition in key agricultural crops with potential for large-scale health impact to people in Africa. The general objective of the Africa Biofortified Sorghum (ABS) project is to develop and deploy sorghum with enhanced pro-vitamin A to farmers and end-users in Africa to alleviate vitamin A-related micronutrient deficiency diseases. To achieve this objective the project technology development team has developed several promising high pro-vitamin A sorghum events. ABS 203 events are so far the most advanced and well-characterised lead events with about 12 μg β-carotene/g tissue which would supply about 40-50 % of the daily recommended vitamin A at harvest. Through gene expression optimisation other events with higher amounts of pro-vitamin A, including ABS 214, ABS 235, ABS 239 with 25, 30-40, 40-50 μg β-carotene/g tissue, respectively, have been developed. ABS 239 would provide twice recommended pro-vitamin A at harvest, 50-90 % after 3 months storage and 13-45 % after 6 months storage for children. Preliminary results of introgression of ABS pro-vitamin A traits into local sorghum varieties in target countries Nigeria and Kenya show stable introgression of ABS vitamin A into local farmer-preferred sorghums varieties. ABS gene Intellectual Property Rights and Freedom to Operate have been donated for use royalty free for Africa. Prior to the focus on the current target countries, the project was implemented by fourteen institutions in Africa and the USA. For the next 5 years, the project will complete ABS product development, complete regulatory science data package and apply for product deregulation in target African countries.
14-3-3 proteins are a large multigenic family of regulatory proteins ubiquitously found in eukaryotes. In plants, 14-3-3 proteins are reported to play significant role in both development and response to stress stimuli. Therefore, considering their importance, genome-wide analyses have been performed in many plants including Arabidopsis, rice and soybean. But, till date, no comprehensive investigation has been conducted in any C4 panicoid crops. In view of this, the present study was performed to identify 8, 5 and 26 potential 14-3-3 gene family members in foxtail millet (Si14-3-3), sorghum (Sb14-3-3) and maize (Zm14-3-3), respectively. In silico characterization revealed large variations in their gene structures; segmental and tandem duplications have played a major role in expansion of these genes in foxtail millet and maize. Gene ontology annotation showed the participation of 14-3-3 proteins in diverse biological processes and molecular functions, and in silico expression profiling indicated their higher expression in all the investigated tissues. Comparative mapping was performed to derive the orthologous relationships between 14-3-3 genes of foxtail millet and other Poaceae members, which showed a higher, as well as similar percentage of orthology among these crops. Expression profiling of Si14-3-3 genes during different time-points of abiotic stress and hormonal treatments showed a differential expression pattern of these genes, and sub-cellular localization studies revealed the site of action of Si14-3-3 proteins within the cells. Further downstream characterization indicated the interaction of Si14-3-3 with a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling phosphoprotein (SiRSZ21A) in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, and this demonstrates that Si14-3-3 might regulate the splicing events by binding with phosphorylated SiRSZ21A. Taken together, the present study is a comprehensive analysis of 14-3-3 gene family members in foxtail millet, sorghum and maize, which provides interesting information on their gene structure, protein domains, phylogenetic and evolutionary relationships, and expression patterns during abiotic stresses and hormonal treatments, which could be useful in choosing candidate members for further functional characterization. In addition, demonstration of interaction between Si14-3-3 and SiRSZ21A provides novel clues on the involvement of 14-3-3 proteins in the splicing events.
Ananas comosus var. bracteatus (Red Pineapple) is an important ornamental plant for its colorful leaves and decorative red fruits. Because of its complex genome, it is difficult to understand the molecular mechanisms involved in the growth and development. Thus high-throughput transcriptome sequencing of Ananas comosus var. bracteatus is necessary to generate large quantities of transcript sequences for the purpose of gene discovery and functional genomic studies. The Ananas comosus var. bracteatus transcriptome was sequenced by the Illumina paired-end sequencing technology. We obtained a total of 23.5 million high quality sequencing reads, 1,555,808 contigs and 41,052 unigenes. In total 41,052 unigenes of Ananas comosus var. bracteatus, 23,275 unigenes were annotated in the NCBI non-redundant protein database and 23,134 unigenes were annotated in the Swiss-Port database. Out of these, 17,748 and 8,505 unigenes were assigned to gene ontology categories and clusters of orthologous groups, respectively. Functional annotation against Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes Pathway database identified 5,825 unigenes which were mapped to 117 pathways. The assembly predicted many unigenes that were previously unknown. The annotated unigenes were compared against pineapple, rice, maize, Arabidopsis, and sorghum. Unigenes that did not match any of those five sequence datasets are considered to be Ananas comosus var. bracteatus unique. We predicted unigenes encoding enzymes involved in terpenoid and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis. The sequence data provide the most comprehensive transcriptomic resource currently available for Ananas comosus var. bracteatus. To our knowledge; this is the first report on the de novo transcriptome sequencing of the Ananas comosus var. bracteatus. Unigenes obtained in this study, may help improve future gene expression, genetic and genomics studies in Ananas comosus var. bracteatus.
Silicon (Si) is generally considered a beneficial element for the growth of higher plants, especially under stress conditions, but the mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we tested the hypothesis that Si improves salt tolerance through mediating important metabolism processes rather than acting as a mere mechanical barrier. Seedlings of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) growing in hydroponic culture were treated with NaCl (100 mm) combined with or without Si (0.83 mm). The result showed that supplemental Si enhanced sorghum salt tolerance by decreasing Na(+) accumulation. Simultaneously, polyamine (PA) levels were increased and ethylene precursor (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid: ACC) concentrations were decreased. Several key PA synthesis genes were up-regulated by Si under salt stress. To further confirm the role of PA in Si-mediated salt tolerance, seedlings were exposed to spermidine (Spd) or a PA synthesis inhibitor (dicyclohexylammonium sulphate, DCHA) combined with salt and Si. Exogenous Spd showed similar effects as Si under salt stress whereas exogenous DCHA eliminated Si-enhanced salt tolerance and the beneficial effect of Si in decreasing Na(+) accumulation. These results indicate that PAs and ACC are involved in Si-induced salt tolerance in sorghum and provide evidence that Si plays an active role in mediating salt tolerance.
Ethylene as a gas phytohormone plays significant roles in the whole life cycle of plants, ranging from growth and development to stress responses. A linear ethylene signaling pathway has been established in the dicotyledonous model plant Arabidopsis. However, the ethylene signaling mechanism in monocotyledonous plants such as rice is largely unclear. In this review, we compare the ethylene response phenotypes of dark-grown seedlings of Arabidopsis, rice, and other monocotyledonous plants (maize, wheat, sorghum, and Brachypodium distachyon) and pinpoint that rice has a distinct phenotype of root inhibition but coleoptile promotion in etiolated seedlings upon ethylene treatment. We further summarize the homologous genes of Arabidopsis ethylene signaling components in these monocotyledonous plants and discuss recent progress. Although conserved in most aspects, ethylene signaling in rice has evolved new features compared with that in Arabidopsis. These analyses provide novel insights into the understanding of ethylene signaling in the dicotyledonous Arabidopsis and monocotyledonous plants, particularly rice. Further characterization of rice ethylene-responsive mutants and their corresponding genes will help us better understand the whole picture of ethylene signaling mechanisms in plants.
Prolamins are the major seed storage proteins of grasses. In maize and related species, prolamins are classified into α-, β-, γ-, and δ-subclasses by their solubility properties. α-prolamins are encoded by multigene families and have a secondary structure that consists of tandem α-helix repeats. Maize has two α-prolamin subclasses, namely the 19 and 22 kDa subclasses that contain nine and 10 α-helix repeats, respectively. Here, we present an evolutionary study based on the structure, organization, and expression of α-prolamins in maize, sugarcane, sorghum, and coix. True 22 kDa subclasses containing 10 repeats are conserved in all four species, but true 19 kDa subclasses containing nine repeats are found only in maize and sugarcane. We discovered a 19 kDa-like α-coixin that, as in sorghum, is encoded by few genes. These data suggest that a 19 kDa progenitor present in the ancestor common to maize, coix, sorghum, and sugarcane was preserved at low copy number in coix and sorghum, while amplified into multigene family architecture in maize and sugarcane. The expression profiling of α-prolamins, verified by two-dimensional gels, showed highly conserved multispot composition for the 19 kDa α-prolamins in maize and sugarcane. Coix and sorghum did not present true 19 kDa α-prolamin spots. Our data show remarkable similarity between maize and sugarcane 19 kDa α-prolamins regarding both gene structure and expression. Since the multigene architecture of 19 kDa α-canein appeared after sugarcane diverged from sorghum, our data suggest that maize and sugarcane might have acquired the multigene family encoding these storage proteins from a common ancestor.
We previously reported that the SbROMT3syn recombinant protein catalyzes the production of the methylated resveratrol derivatives pinostilbene and pterostilbene by methylating substrate resveratrol in recombinant E. coli. To further study the production of stilbene compounds in E. coli by the expression of enzymes involved in stilbene biosynthesis, we isolated three stilbene synthase (STS) genes from rhubarb, peanut, and grape as well as two resveratrol O-methyltransferase (ROMT) genes from grape and sorghum. The ability of RpSTS to produce resveratrol in recombinant E. coli was compared with other AhSTS and VrSTS genes. Out of three STS, only AhSTS was able to produce resveratrol from p-coumaric acid. Thus, to improve the solubility of RpSTS, VrROMT, and SbROMT3 in E. coli, we synthesized the RpSTS, VrROMT and SbROMT3 genes following codon-optimization and expressed one or both genes together with the cinnamate/4-coumarate:coenzyme A ligase (CCL) gene from Streptomyces coelicolor. Our HPLC and LC-MS analyses showed that recombinant E. coli expressing both ScCCL and RpSTSsyn led to the production of resveratrol when p-coumaric acid was used as the precursor. In addition, incorporation of SbROMT3syn in recombinant E. coli cells produced resveratrol and its mono-methylated derivative, pinostilbene, as the major products from p-coumaric acid. However, very small amounts of pterostilbene were only detectable in the recombinant E. coli cells expressing the ScCCL, RpSTSsyn and SbROMT3syn genes. These results suggest that RpSTSsyn exhibits an enhanced enzyme activity to produce resveratrol and SbROMT3syn catalyzes the methylation of resveratrol to produce pinostilbene in E. coli cells.
Growth-defence balance is the selective partitioning of resources between biomass accumulation and defence responses. Although it is generally postulated that reallocation of limited carbon pools drives the antagonism between growth and defence, little is known about the mechanisms underlying this regulation. Jasmonates (JAs) are a group of oxylipins that are required for a broad range of responses from defence against insects to reproductive growth. Application of JAs to seedlings also leads to inhibited growth and repression of photosynthesis, suggesting a role for JAs in regulating growth-defence balance. The majority of JA research uses dicot models such as Arabidopsis and tomato, while understanding of JA biology in monocot grasses, which comprise most bioenergy feedstocks, food for human consumption, and animal feed, is limited. Interestingly, JA mutants of grasses exhibit unique phenotypes compared with well-studied dicot models. Gene expression analyses in bioenergy grasses also suggest roles for JA in rhizome development, which has not been demonstrated in Arabidopsis. In this review we summarize current knowledge of JA biology in panicoid grasses-the group that consists of the world's emerging bioenergy grasses such as switchgrass, sugarcane, Miscanthus, and sorghum. We discuss outstanding questions regarding the role of JAs in panicoid grasses, and highlight the importance of utilizing emerging grass models for molecular studies to provide a basis for engineering bioenergy grasses that can maximize biomass accumulation while efficiently defending against stress.
Production of nitric oxide (NO) and the presence of NO metabolism genes, nitrous oxide reductase (nosZ), nitrous oxide reductase regulator (nosR) and nitric oxide reductase (norB) were identified in the plant-associated bacterium (PAB) Azospirillum brasilense SM. NO presence was confirmed in all overexpressing strains, while improvement in the plant growth response of these strains was mediated by increased NO and indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) levels in the strains. Electron microscopy showed random distribution to biofilm, with surface colonization of pleiomorphic Azospirilla. Quantitative IAA estimation highlighted a crucial role of nosR and norBC in regulating IAA biosynthesis. The NO quencher and donor reduced/blocked IAA biosynthesis by all strains, indicating their common regulatory role in IAA biosynthesis. Tryptophan (Trp) and l-Arginine (Arg) showed higher expression of NO genes tested, while in the case of ipdC, only Trp and IAA increased expression, while Arg had no significant effect. The highest nosR expression in SMnosR in the presence of IAA and Trp, along with its 2-fold IAA level, confirmed the relationship of nosR overexpression with Trp in increasing IAA. These results indicate a strong correlation between IAA and NO in A. brasilense SM and suggest the existence of cross-talk or shared signaling mechanisms in these two growth regulators.
As one of the critical diseases of sugarcane, sugarcane mosaic disease can lead to serious decline in stalk yield and sucrose content. It is mainly caused by Potyvirus sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV) and/or Sorghum mosaic virus (SrMV), with additional differences in viral strains. RNA interference (RNAi) is a novel strategy for producing viral resistant plants. In this study, based on multiple sequence alignment conducted on genomic sequences of different strains and isolates of SrMV, the conserved region of coat protein (CP) genes was selected as the target gene and the interference sequence with size of 423 bp in length was obtained through PCR amplification. The RNAi vector pGII00-HACP with an expression cassette containing both hairpin interference sequence and cp4-epsps herbicide-tolerant gene was transferred to sugarcane cultivar ROC22 via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. After herbicide screening, PCR molecular identification, and artificial inoculation challenge, anti-SrMV positive transgenic lines were successfully obtained. SrMV resistance rate of the transgenic lines with the interference sequence was 87.5% based on SrMV challenge by artificial inoculation. The genetically modified SrMV-resistant lines of cultivar ROC22 provide resistant germplasm for breeding lines and can also serve as resistant lines having the same genetic background for study of resistance mechanisms.
In cereals, the presence of soluble polysaccharides including (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan has downstream implications for human health, animal feed and biofuel applications. Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench is a versatile crop, but there are limited reports regarding the content of such soluble polysaccharides. Here, the amount of (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan present in sorghum tissues was measured using a Megazyme assay. Very low amounts were present in the grain, ranging from 0.16%-0.27% (w/w), while there was a greater quantity in vegetative tissues at 0.12-1.71% (w/w). The fine structure of (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan, as denoted by the ratio of cellotriosyl and cellotetraosyl residues, was assessed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and ranged from 2.6-3:1 in the grain, while ratios in vegetative tissues were lower at 2.1-2.6:1. The distribution of (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan was examined using a specific antibody and observed with fluorescence and transmission electron microscopy. Micrographs showed a variable distribution of (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan influenced by temporal and spatial factors. The sorghum orthologs of genes implicated in the synthesis of (1,3;1,4)-β-glucan in other cereals, such as the Cellulose synthase-like (Csl) F and H gene families were defined. Transcript profiling of these genes across sorghum tissues was carried out using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, indicating that, as in other cereals, CslF6 transcripts dominated.
In eukaryotes, alternative splicing (AS) promotes transcriptome and proteome diversity. The extent of genome-wide AS changes occurring during a plant-microbe interaction is largely unknown. Here, using high-throughput, paired-end RNA sequencing, we generated an isoform-level spliceome map of Brachypodium distachyon infected with Panicum mosaic virus and its satellite virus. Overall, we detected ∼44,443 transcripts in B. distachyon, ∼30% more than those annotated in the reference genome. Expression of ∼28,900 transcripts was ≥2 fragments per kilobase of transcript per million mapped fragments, and ∼42% of multi-exonic genes were alternatively spliced. Comparative analysis of AS patterns in B. distachyon, rice (Oryza sativa), maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), Arabidopsis thaliana, potato (Solanum tuberosum), Medicago truncatula, and poplar (Populus trichocarpa) revealed conserved ratios of the AS types between monocots and dicots. Virus infection quantitatively altered AS events in Brachypodium with little effect on the AS ratios. We discovered AS events for >100 immune-related genes encoding receptor-like kinases, NB-LRR resistance proteins, transcription factors, RNA silencing, and splicing-associated proteins. Cloning and molecular characterization of SCL33, a serine/arginine-rich splicing factor, identified multiple novel intron-retaining splice variants that are developmentally regulated and modulated during virus infection. B. distachyon SCL33 splicing patterns are also strikingly conserved compared with a distant Arabidopsis SCL33 ortholog. This analysis provides new insights into AS landscapes conserved among monocots and dicots and uncovered AS events in plant defense-related genes.
In a preceding microcosm study, we found huge differences in phosphorus (P) acquisition in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and flax (Linum usitatissimum) sharing a common mycorrhizal network (CMN). Is the transcriptional regulation of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM)-induced inorganic orthophosphate (Pi) transporters responsible for these differences? We characterized and analyzed the expression of Pi transporters of the Pht1 family in both plant species, and identified two new AM-inducible Pi transporters in flax. Mycorrhizal Pi acquisition was strongly affected by the combination of plant and AM fungal species. A corresponding change in the expression of two AM-inducible Pht1 transporters was noticed in both plants (SbPT9, SbPT10, LuPT5 and LuPT8), but the effect was very weak. Overall, the expression level of these genes did not explain why flax took up more Pi from the CMN than did sorghum. The post-transcriptional regulation of the transporters and their biochemical properties may be more important for their function than the fine-tuning of their gene expression.
High-fat diet (HFD) elevates circulatory fatty acids and influences glucose and fat metabolism. Azelaic acid (AzA), a naturally occurring α,ω-dicarboxylic acid in wheat, rye, barley, oat seeds and sorghum, has been reported to exert antidiabetic effects in HFD-induced type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) C57BL/6J mice. The present study was undertaken to identify the genes that are differentially modulated by treatment with AzA in HFD-fed mice. Mice were fed HFD for 10 weeks and subjected to intragastric administration of 80 mg/kg body weight (BW) of AzA daily along with HFD from 11 to 15 weeks. Lipid profile, adipokines and cytokines were examined in the plasma/liver of mice. Whole genome profiling was performed in the liver of mice using microarray and validated by qRT-PCR, Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses. HFD intake resulted in significantly elevated lipids (except high-density lipoproteins), resistin, tumour necrosis factor alpha and interleukin-6 with marked reduction in adiponectin. Administration of AzA to HFD-fed mice significantly restored the lipids, adipokines and cytokines to near normal. Transcript profiling revealed that HFD intake activated the genes involved in stress response, cell cycle regulation and apoptosis. Treatment with AzA caused increased expression of genes involved in reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging, receptor-mediated signalling, transcription, protein modification and insulin signal transduction. AzA activates insulin signal molecules leading to insulin sensitivity. The ability of AzA to modulate the expression of these genes supports the notion that AzA is a promising drug candidate for the treatment of insulin resistance associated with T2DM.
Comprehensive integration of large-scale omics resources such as genomes, transcriptomes and metabolomes will provide deeper insights into broader aspects of molecular biology. For better understanding of plant biology, we aim to construct a next-generation sequencing (NGS)-derived gene expression network (GEN) repository for a broad range of plant species. So far we have incorporated information about 745 high-quality mRNA sequencing (mRNA-Seq) samples from eight plant species (Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Solanum lycopersicum, Sorghum bicolor, Vitis vinifera, Solanum tuberosum, Medicago truncatula and Glycine max) from the public short read archive, digitally profiled the entire set of gene expression profiles, and drawn GENs by using correspondence analysis (CA) to take advantage of gene expression similarities. In order to understand the evolutionary significance of the GENs from multiple species, they were linked according to the orthology of each node (gene) among species. In addition to other gene expression information, functional annotation of the genes will facilitate biological comprehension. Currently we are improving the given gene annotations with natural language processing (NLP) techniques and manual curation. Here we introduce the current status of our analyses and the web database, PODC (Plant Omics Data Center; http://bioinf.mind.meiji.ac.jp/podc/), now open to the public, providing GENs, functional annotations and additional comprehensive omics resources.
In transcriptome analysis, accurate annotation of each transcriptional unit and its expression profile is essential. A full-length cDNA (FL-cDNA) collection facilitates the refinement of transcriptional annotation, and accurate transcription start sites help to unravel transcriptional regulation. We constructed a normalized FL-cDNA library from eight growth stages of aerial tissues in Sorghum bicolor and isolated 37,607 clones. These clones were Sanger sequenced from the 5' and/or 3' ends and in total 38,981 high-quality expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were obtained. About one-third of the transcripts of known genes were captured as FL-cDNA clone resources. In addition to these, we also annotated 272 novel genes, 323 antisense transcripts and 1,672 candidate isoforms. These clones are available from the RIKEN Bioresource Center. After obtaining accurate annotation of transcriptional units, we performed expression profile analysis. We carried out spikelet-, seed- and stem-specific RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) analysis and confirmed the expression of 70.6% of the newly identified genes. We also downloaded 23 sorghum RNA-Seq samples that are publicly available and these are shown on a genome browser together with our original FL-cDNA and RNA-Seq data. Using our original and publicly available data, we made an expression profile of each gene and identified the top 20 genes with the most similar expression. In addition, we visualized their relationships in gene co-expression networks. Users can access and compare various transcriptome data from S, bicolor at http://sorghum.riken.jp.
Shoot branches or tillers develop from axillary buds. The dormancy versus outgrowth fates of buds depends on genetic, environmental and hormonal signals. Defoliation inhibits bud outgrowth indicating the role of leaf-derived metabolic factors such as sucrose in bud outgrowth. In this study, the sensitivity of bud outgrowth to selective defoliation was investigated. At 6 d after planting (6 DAP), the first two leaves of sorghum were fully expanded and the third was partially emerged. Therefore, the leaves were selectively defoliated at 6 DAP and the length of the bud in the first leaf axil was measured at 8 DAP. Bud outgrowth was inhibited by defoliation of only 2 cm from the tip of the second leaf blade. The expression of dormancy and sucrose-starvation marker genes was up-regulated and cell cycle and sucrose-inducible genes was down-regulated during the first 24 h post-defoliation of the second leaf. At 48 h, the expression of these genes was similar to controls as the defoliated plant recovers. Our results demonstrate that small changes in photosynthetic leaf area affect the propensity of tiller buds for outgrowth. Therefore, variation in leaf area and photosynthetic activity should be included when integrating sucrose into models of shoot branching.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small endogenous RNAs of ~22 nucleotides that have been shown to play regulatory role by negatively affecting the expression of genes at the post-transcriptional level. Information of miRNAs on some important crops like soybean, Arabidopsis, and rice, etc. are available, but no study on heat-responsive novel miRNAs has yet been reported in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). In the present investigation, a popular wheat cultivar HD2985 was used in small RNA library construction and Illumina HiSeq 2000 was used to perform high-throughput sequencing of the library after cluster generation; 110,896,604 and 87,743,861 reads were generated in the control (22 °C) and heat-treated (42 °C for 2 h) samples, respectively. Forty-four precursor and mature miRNAs were found in T. aestivum from miRBase v 19. The frequencies of the miRNA families varied from 2 (tae-miR1117) to 60,672 (tae-miR159b). We identify 1052 and 902 mature miRNA sequences in HD2985 control and HS-treated samples by mapping on reference draft genome of T. aestivum. Maximum identified miRNAs were located on IWGSC_CSS_3B_scaff (chromosome 3B). We could identify 53 and 46 mature miRNA in the control and HS samples and more than 516 target genes by mapping on the reference genome of Oryza sativa, Zea mays, and Sorghum bicolor. Using different pipelines and plant-specific criteria, 37 novel miRNAs were identified in the control and treated samples. Six novel miRNA were validated using qRT-PCR to be heat-responsive. A negative correlation was, however, observed between the expression of novel miRNAs and their targets. Target prediction and pathway analysis revealed their involvement in the heat stress tolerance. These novel miRNAs are new additions to miRNA database of wheat, and the regulatory network will be made use of in deciphering the mechanism of thermotolerance in wheat.
Numerous instances of presence/absence variations for introns have been documented in eukaryotes, and some cases of recurrent loss of the same intron have been suggested. However, there has been no comprehensive or phylogenetically deep analysis of recurrent intron loss. Of 883 cases of intron presence/absence variation that we detected in five sequenced grass genomes, 93 were confirmed as recurrent losses and the rest could be explained by single losses (652) or single gains (118). No case of recurrent intron gain was observed. Deep phylogenetic analysis often indicated that apparent intron gains were actually numerous independent losses of the same intron. Recurrent loss exhibited extreme non-randomness, in that some introns were removed independently in many lineages. The two larger genomes, maize and sorghum, were found to have a higher rate of both recurrent loss and overall loss and/or gain than foxtail millet, rice or Brachypodium. Adjacent introns and small introns were found to be preferentially lost. Intron loss genes exhibited a high frequency of germ line or early embryogenesis expression. In addition, flanking exon A+T-richness and intron TG/CG ratios were higher in retained introns. This last result suggests that epigenetic status, as evidenced by a loss of methylated CG dinucleotides, may play a role in the process of intron loss. This study provides the first comprehensive analysis of recurrent intron loss, makes a series of novel findings on the patterns of recurrent intron loss during the evolution of the grass family, and provides insight into the molecular mechanism(s) underlying intron loss.
A reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) assay was developed for detecting Sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV) and Sorghum mosaic virus (SrMV) in sugarcane. Six sets of four primers corresponding to the conserved coat protein gene were designed and tested for each virus. Three primer sets designed for detecting SCMV and four for detecting SrMV were successful in the RT-LAMP assay. The effective primer sets were not only specific for their target virus, but also able to detect multiple virus strains. The magnesium sulfate concentration of the reaction solution was optimized, with both viruses requiring a minimum of 5mM for detection. The sensitivity of this RT-LAMP assay was less than that of conventional and real-time RT-PCR.
Nitrogen is a primary macronutrient in plants, and nitrogen fertilizers play a critical role in crop production and yield. In this study, we investigated the effects of overexpressing a glutamine synthetase (GS) gene on nitrogen metabolism, and plant growth and development in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L., Moench). GS catalyzes the ATP dependent reaction between ammonia and glutamate to produce glutamine. A 1,071 bp long coding sequence of a sorghum cytosolic GS gene (Gln1) under the control of the maize ubiquitin (Ubq) promoter was introduced into sorghum immature embryos by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Progeny of the transformants exhibited higher accumulation of the Gln1 transcripts and up to 2.2-fold higher GS activity compared to the non-transgenic controls. When grown under optimal nitrogen conditions, these Gln1 transgenic lines showed greater tillering and up to 2.1-fold increase in shoot vegetative biomass. Interestingly, even under greenhouse conditions, we observed a seasonal component to both these parameters and the grain yield. Our results, showing that the growth and development of sorghum Gln1 transformants are also affected by N availability and other environmental factors, suggest complexity of the relationship between GS activity and plant growth and development. A better understanding of other control points and the ability to manipulate these will be needed to utilize the transgenic technology to improve nitrogen use efficiency of crop plants.
Several studies have shown that differences in lipid composition and in the lipid biosynthetic pathway affect the aluminium (Al) tolerance of plants, but little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying these differences. Phospholipids create a negative charge at the surface of the plasma membrane and enhance Al sensitivity as a result of the accumulation of positively charged Al(3+) ions. The phospholipids will be balanced by other electrically neutral lipids, such as sterols. In the present research, Al tolerance was compared among pea (Pisum sativum) genotypes. Compared with Al-tolerant genotypes, the Al-sensitive genotype accumulated more Al in the root tip, had a less intact plasma membrane, and showed a lower expression level of PsCYP51, which encodes obtusifoliol-14α-demethylase (OBT 14DM), a key sterol biosynthetic enzyme. The ratio of phospholipids to sterols was higher in the sensitive genotype than in the tolerant genotypes, suggesting that the sterol biosynthetic pathway plays an important role in Al tolerance. Consistent with this idea, a transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana line with knocked-down AtCYP51 expression showed an Al-sensitive phenotype. Uniconazole-P, an inhibitor of OBT 14DM, suppressed the Al tolerance of Al-tolerant genotypes of maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), rice (Oryza sativa), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and triticale (×Triticosecale Wittmark cv. Currency). These results suggest that increased sterol content, regulated by CYP51, with concomitant lower phospholipid content in the root tip, results in lower negativity of the plasma membrane. This appears to be a common strategy for Al tolerance among several plant species.
CRISPRdirect is a simple and functional web server for selecting rational CRISPR/Cas targets from an input sequence. The CRISPR/Cas system is a promising technique for genome engineering which allows target-specific cleavage of genomic DNA guided by Cas9 nuclease in complex with a guide RNA (gRNA), that complementarily binds to a ∼ 20 nt targeted sequence. The target sequence requirements are twofold. First, the 5'-NGG protospacer adjacent motif (PAM) sequence must be located adjacent to the target sequence. Second, the target sequence should be specific within the entire genome in order to avoid off-target editing. CRISPRdirect enables users to easily select rational target sequences with minimized off-target sites by performing exhaustive searches against genomic sequences. The server currently incorporates the genomic sequences of human, mouse, rat, marmoset, pig, chicken, frog, zebrafish, Ciona, fruit fly, silkworm, Caenorhabditis elegans, Arabidopsis, rice, Sorghum and budding yeast. Freely available at http://crispr.dbcls.jp/. Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
The APETALA2/ethylene-responsive element binding factor (AP2/ERF) family is one of the largest transcription factor (TF) families in plants that includes four major sub-families, namely AP2, DREB (dehydration responsive element binding), ERF (ethylene responsive factors) and RAV (Related to ABI3/VP). AP2/ERFs are known to play significant roles in various plant processes including growth and development and biotic and abiotic stress responses. Considering this, a comprehensive genome-wide study was conducted in foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.). A total of 171 AP2/ERF genes were identified by systematic sequence analysis and were physically mapped onto nine chromosomes. Phylogenetic analysis grouped AP2/ERF genes into six classes (I to VI). Duplication analysis revealed that 12 (∼7%) SiAP2/ERF genes were tandem repeated and 22 (∼13%) were segmentally duplicated. Comparative physical mapping between foxtail millet AP2/ERF genes and its orthologs of sorghum (18 genes), maize (14 genes), rice (9 genes) and Brachypodium (6 genes) showed the evolutionary insights of AP2/ERF gene family and also the decrease in orthology with increase in phylogenetic distance. The evolutionary significance in terms of gene-duplication and divergence was analyzed by estimating synonymous and non-synonymous substitution rates. Expression profiling of candidate AP2/ERF genes against drought, salt and phytohormones revealed insights into their precise and/or overlapping expression patterns which could be responsible for their functional divergence in foxtail millet. The study showed that the genes SiAP2/ERF-069, SiAP2/ERF-103 and SiAP2/ERF-120 may be considered as potential candidate genes for further functional validation as well for utilization in crop improvement programs for stress resistance since these genes were up-regulated under drought and salinity stresses in ABA dependent manner. Altogether the present study provides new insights into evolution, divergence and systematic functional analysis of AP2/ERF gene family at genome level in foxtail millet which may be utilized for improving stress adaptation and tolerance in millets, cereals and bioenergy grasses.
Quantitative Real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) is a powerful technique to investigate comparative gene expression. In general, normalization of results using a highly stable housekeeping gene (HKG) as an internal control is recommended and necessary. However, there are several reports suggesting that regulation of some HKGs is affected by different conditions. The western corn rootworm (WCR), Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), is a serious pest of corn in the United States and Europe. The expression profile of target genes related to insecticide exposure, resistance, and RNA interference has become an important experimental technique for study of western corn rootworms; however, lack of information on reliable HKGs under different conditions makes the interpretation of qRT-PCR results difficult. In this study, four distinct algorithms (Genorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper and delta-CT) and five candidate HKGs to genes of reference (β-actin; GAPDH, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; β-tubulin; RPS9, ribosomal protein S9; EF1a, elongation factor-1α) were evaluated to determine the most reliable HKG under different experimental conditions including exposure to dsRNA and Bt toxins and among different tissues and developmental stages. Although all the HKGs tested exhibited relatively stable expression among the different treatments, some differences were noted. Among the five candidate reference genes evaluated, β-actin exhibited highly stable expression among different life stages. RPS9 exhibited the most similar pattern of expression among dsRNA treatments, and both experiments indicated that EF1a was the second most stable gene. EF1a was also the most stable for Bt exposure and among different tissues. These results will enable researchers to use more accurate and reliable normalization of qRT-PCR data in WCR experiments.
MutS Homolog 1 (MSH1) encodes a plant-specific protein that functions in mitochondria and chloroplasts. We showed previously that disruption or suppression of the MSH1 gene results in a process of developmental reprogramming that is heritable and non-genetic in subsequent generations. In Arabidopsis, this developmental reprogramming process is accompanied by striking changes in gene expression of organellar and stress response genes. This developmentally reprogrammed state, when used in crossing, results in a range of variation for plant growth potential. Here we investigate the implications of MSH1 modulation in a crop species. We found that MSH1-mediated phenotypic variation in Sorghum bicolor is heritable and potentially valuable for crop breeding. We observed phenotypic variation for grain yield, plant height, flowering time, panicle architecture, and above-ground biomass. Focusing on grain yield and plant height, we found some lines that appeared to respond to selection. Based on amenability of this system to implementation in a range of crops, and the scope of phenotypic variation that is derived, our results suggest that MSH1 suppression provides a novel approach for breeding in crops.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) accumulates 3-deoxyanthocyanidins and exhibits orange to purple coloration on parts of the leaf in response to infection with the fungus Bipolaris sorghicola. We aimed to identify the key genes determining this color variation. Sorghum populations derived from Nakei-MS3B and M36001 accumulated apigeninidin, or both apigeninidin and luteolinidin, in different proportions in lesions caused by B. sorghicola infection, suggesting that the relative proportions of the two 3-deoxyanthocyanidins determine color variation. QTL analysis and genomic sequencing indicated that two closely linked loci on chromosome 4, containing the flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase (F3'H) and Tannin1 (Tan1) genes, were responsible for the lesion color variation. The F3'H locus in Nakei-MS3B had a genomic deletion resulting in the fusion of two tandemly arrayed F3'H genes. The recessive allele at the Tan1 locus derived from M36001 had a genomic insertion and encoded a non-functional WD40 repeat transcription factor. Whole-mRNA sequencing revealed that expression of the fused F3'H gene was conspicuously induced in purple sorghum lines. The levels of expression of F3'H matched the relative proportions of apigeninidin and luteolinidin. Expression of F3'H is responsible for the synthesis of luteolinidin; the expression level of this gene is therefore critical in determining color variation in sorghum leaves infected with B. sorghicola.
The RESPONSIVE TO DEHYDRATION 22 (RD22) gene is a molecular link between abscisic acid (ABA) signalling and abiotic stress responses. Its expression has been used as a reliable ABA early response marker. In Arabidopsis, the single copy RD22 gene possesses a BURP domain also located at the C-terminus of USP embryonic proteins and the beta subunit of polygalacturonases. In grapevine, a RD22 gene has been identified but putative paralogs are also found in the grape genome, possibly forming a large RD22 family in this species. In this work, we searched for annotations containing BURP domains in the Vitis vinifera genome. Nineteen proteins were defined by a comparative analysis between the two genome predictions and RNA-Seq data. These sequences were compared to other plant BURPs identified in previous genome surveys allowing us to reconceive group classifications based on phylogenetic relationships and protein motif occurrence. We observed a lineage-specific evolution of the RD22 family, with the biggest expansion in grapevine and poplar. In contrast, rice, sorghum and maize presented highly expanded monocot-specific groups. The Vitis RD22 group may have expanded from segmental duplications as most of its members are confined to a region in chromosome 4. The inspection of transcriptomic data revealed variable expression of BURP genes in vegetative and reproductive organs. Many genes were induced in specific tissues or by abiotic and biotic stresses. Three RD22 genes were further studied showing that they responded oppositely to ABA and to stress conditions. Our results show that the inclusion of RNA-Seq data is essential while describing gene families and improving gene annotations. Robust phylogenetic analyses including all BURP members from other sequenced species helped us redefine previous relationships that were erroneously established. This work provides additional evidence for RD22 genes serving as marker genes for different organs or stresses in grapevine.
Seventy-one cultivars of sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) were screened for aluminium (Al) tolerance by measuring relative root growth (RRG). Two contrasting cultivars, ROMA (Al tolerant) and POTCHETSTRM (Al sensitive), were selected to study shorter term responses to Al stress. POTCHETSTRM had higher callose synthase activity, lower β-1,3-glucanase activity and more callose deposition in the root apices during Al treatment compared with ROMA. We monitored the expression of 12 genes involved in callose synthesis and degradation and found that one of these, SbGlu1 (Sb03g045630.1), which encodes a β-1,3-glucanase enzyme, best explained the contrasting deposition of callose in ROMA and POTCHETSTRM during Al treatment. Full-length cDNAs of SbGlu1 was prepared from ROMA and POTCHETSTRM and expressed in Arabidopsis thaliana using the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. Independent transgenic lines displayed significantly greater Al tolerance than wild-type plants and vector-only controls. This phenotype was associated with greater total β-1,3-glucanase activity, less Al accumulation and reduced callose deposition in the roots. These results suggest that callose production is not just an early indicator of Al stress in plants but likely to be part of the toxicity pathway that leads to the inhibition of root growth.
Plant-specific hybrid proline- or glycine-rich proteins (HyP/GRPs) are involved in diverse gene functions including plant development and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses. The quantitative trait locus, qLTG3-1, enhances seed germination in rice under low-temperature conditions and encodes a member with a glycine-rich motif of the HyP/GRP family. The function of this gene may be related to the weakening of tissue covering the embryo during seed germination. In the present study, the diversification of the HyP/GRP gene family was elucidated in rice based on phylogenetic relationships and gene expression levels. At least 21 members of the HyP/GRP family have been identified in the rice genome and clustered in five regions on four chromosomes by tandem and chromosomal duplications. Of these, OsHyPRP05 (qLTG3-1) and its paralogous gene, OsHyPRP21, had a glycine-rich motif. Furthermore, orthologous genes with a glycine-rich motif and the HyP/GRP gene family were detected in four genome-sequenced monocots: 12 in barley, 10 in Brachypodium, 20 in maize, and 28 in sorghum, using a BLAST search of qLTG3-1 as the query. All members of the HyP/GRP family in these five species were classified into seven main groups, which were clustered together in these species. These results suggested that the HyP/GRP gene family was formed in the ancestral genome before the divergence of these species. The collinearity of chromosomal regions around qLTG3-1 and its orthologous genes were conserved among rice, Brachypodium, sorghum, and maize, indicating that qLTG3-1 and orthologous genes conserve gene function during seed germination.
Viral diseases cause significant losses in global agricultural production, yet little is known about grass antiviral defense mechanisms. We previously reported on host immune responses triggered by Panicum mosaic virus (PMV) and its satellite virus (SPMV) in the model C3 grass Brachypodium distachyon. To aid comparative analyses of C3 and C4 grass antiviral defenses, here, we establish B. distachyon and Setaria viridis (a C4 grass) as compatible hosts for seven grass-infecting viruses, including PMV and SPMV, Brome mosaic virus, Barley stripe mosaic virus, Maize mild mottle virus, Sorghum yellow banding virus, Wheat streak mosaic virus (WSMV), and Foxtail mosaic virus (FoMV). Etiological and molecular characterization of the fourteen grass-virus pathosystems showed evidence for conserved crosstalk among salicylic acid (SA), jasmonic acid, and ethylene pathways in B. distachyon and S. viridis. Strikingly, expression of PHYTOALEXIN DEFICIENT4, an upstream modulator of SA signaling, was consistently suppressed during most virus infections in B. distachyon and S. viridis. Hierarchical clustering analyses further identified unique antiviral responses triggered by two morphologically similar viruses, FoMV and WSMV, and uncovered other host-dependent effects. Together, the results of this study establish B. distachyon and S. viridis as models for the analysis of plant-virus interactions and provide the first framework for conserved and unique features of C3 and C4 grass antiviral defenses.
MYB proteins represent one of the largest transcription factor families in plants, playing important roles in diverse developmental and stress-responsive processes. Considering its significance, several genome-wide analyses have been conducted in almost all land plants except foxtail millet. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica L.) is a model crop for investigating systems biology of millets and bioenergy grasses. Further, the crop is also known for its potential abiotic stress-tolerance. In this context, a comprehensive genome-wide survey was conducted and 209 MYB protein-encoding genes were identified in foxtail millet. All 209 S. italica MYB (SiMYB) genes were physically mapped onto nine chromosomes of foxtail millet. Gene duplication study showed that segmental- and tandem-duplication have occurred in genome resulting in expansion of this gene family. The protein domain investigation classified SiMYB proteins into three classes according to number of MYB repeats present. The phylogenetic analysis categorized SiMYBs into ten groups (I-X). SiMYB-based comparative mapping revealed a maximum orthology between foxtail millet and sorghum, followed by maize, rice and Brachypodium. Heat map analysis showed tissue-specific expression pattern of predominant SiMYB genes. Expression profiling of candidate MYB genes against abiotic stresses and hormone treatments using qRT-PCR revealed specific and/or overlapping expression patterns of SiMYBs. Taken together, the present study provides a foundation for evolutionary and functional characterization of MYB TFs in foxtail millet to dissect their functions in response to environmental stimuli.
More than a decade after the sequencing of its genome, Arabidopsis still stands as the epitome of a model system in plant biology. Arabidopsis proteomics has also taught us great lessons on different aspects of plant growth, development and physiology. Without doubt our understanding of basic principles of plant biology would not have been this advanced if it were not for knowledge gained using Arabidopsis as a model system. However, with the projections of global climate change and rapid population growth, it is high time we evaluate the applicability of this model system in studies aimed at understanding abiotic stress tolerance and adaptation, with a particular emphasis on maintaining yield under hot and dry environmental conditions. Because of the innate nature of sorghum's tolerance to drought and moderate tolerance to salinity stresses, we believe sorghum is the next logical model system in such studies amongst cereals. In this acute view, we highlight the importance of Arabidopsis as a model system, briefly discuss its potential limitations in drought and salt stress studies, and present our views on the potential usefulness of sorghum as a model system for cereals in drought and salinity stress proteomic studies.
Auxin is a key regulator of plant growth and development, orchestrating cell division, elongation and differentiation, embryonic development, root and stem tropisms, apical dominance, and transition to flowering. Auxin levels are higher in undifferentiated cell populations and decrease following organ initiation and tissue differentiation. This differential auxin distribution is achieved by polar auxin transport (PAT) mediated by auxin transport proteins. There are four major families of auxin transporters in plants: PIN-FORMED (PIN), ATP-binding cassette family B (ABCB), AUXIN1/LIKE-AUX1s, and PIN-LIKES. These families include proteins located at the plasma membrane or at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), which participate in auxin influx, eﬄux or both, from the apoplast into the cell or from the cytosol into the ER compartment. Auxin transporters have been largely studied in the dicotyledon model species Arabidopsis, but there is increasing evidence of their role in auxin regulated development in monocotyledon species. In monocots, families of auxin transporters are enlarged and often include duplicated genes and proteins with high sequence similarity. Some of these proteins underwent sub- and neo-functionalization with substantial modification to their structure and expression in organs such as adventitious roots, panicles, tassels, and ears. Most of the present information on monocot auxin transporters function derives from studies conducted in rice, maize, sorghum, and Brachypodium, using pharmacological applications (PAT inhibitors) or down-/up-regulation (over-expression and RNA interference) of candidate genes. Gene expression studies and comparison of predicted protein structures have also increased our knowledge of the role of PAT in monocots. However, knockout mutants and functional characterization of single genes are still scarce and the future availability of such resources will prove crucial to elucidate the role of auxin transporters in monocots development.
Changes in stem sugar concentrations due to drought stress at the early reproductive stage were studied in seven sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) genotypes that differ in their stem sugar storage ability. Total sap sugar concentration increased in most genotypes. ANOVA showed a significant contribution of genotype and treatment to the variation in sugar levels. Two genotypes showed little variation in total sugar levels at the fifth internode from the peduncle and five genotypes showed significant increases in total sugar levels under drought; these groups were used to compare sugar metabolism. Drought led to a decrease in catabolic sucrose synthase activity in both groups. Invertase activities increased significantly in two genotypes and correlated with the increase in reducing sugar concentrations under drought. Stem sugar hydrolysis probably had a role in osmotic adjustment under drought and correlated with retention of sap volume. However, the activities of sugar-metabolising enzymes did not correlate with their gene expression levels. After resuming irrigation, grain yields, stalk yields and juice volume at physiological maturity were lower in plants recovering from drought stress compared with the controls. In some genotypes, there were similar losses in grain yields and stem sugars due to drought, indicating photoassimilate source limitation; in other genotypes, grain yield losses were less than stem sugar losses in drought-exposed plants compared with the controls, suggesting mobilisation of sugars from the storage internodes to the developing panicle. Accumulation of stem sugars appears to be an adaptive strategy against drought stress in some sorghum genotypes.
Spodoptera frugiperda (Noctuidae) is a major agricultural pest throughout the American continent. The highly polyphagous larvae are frequently devastating crops of importance such as corn, sorghum, cotton and grass. In addition, the Sf9 cell line, widely used in biochemistry for in vitro protein production, is derived from S. frugiperda tissues. Many research groups are using S. frugiperda as a model organism to investigate questions such as plant adaptation, pest behavior or resistance to pesticides. In this study, we constructed a reference transcriptome assembly (Sf_TR2012b) of RNA sequences obtained from more than 35 S. frugiperda developmental time-points and tissue samples. We assessed the quality of this reference transcriptome by annotating a ubiquitous gene family--ribosomal proteins--as well as gene families that have a more constrained spatio-temporal expression and are involved in development, immunity and olfaction. We also provide a time-course of expression that we used to characterize the transcriptional regulation of the gene families studied. We conclude that the Sf_TR2012b transcriptome is a valid reference transcriptome. While its reliability decreases for the detection and annotation of genes under strong transcriptional constraint we still recover a fair percentage of tissue-specific transcripts. That allowed us to explore the spatial and temporal expression of genes and to observe that some olfactory receptors are expressed in antennae and palps but also in other non related tissues such as fat bodies. Similarly, we observed an interesting interplay of gene families involved in immunity between fat bodies and antennae.
Genomic data are lacking for many allergen sources. To circumvent this limitation, we implemented a strategy to reveal the repertoire of pollen allergens of a grass with clinical importance in subtropical regions, where an increasing proportion of the world's population resides. We sought to identify and immunologically characterize the allergenic components of the Panicoideae Johnson grass pollen (JGP; Sorghum halepense). The total pollen transcriptome, proteome, and allergome of JGP were documented. Serum IgE reactivities with pollen and purified allergens were assessed in 64 patients with grass pollen allergy from a subtropical region. Purified Sor h 1 and Sor h 13 were identified as clinically important allergen components of JGP with serum IgE reactivity in 49 (76%) and 28 (43.8%), respectively, of patients with grass pollen allergy. Within whole JGP, multiple cDNA transcripts and peptide spectra belonging to grass pollen allergen families 1, 2, 4, 7, 11, 12, 13, and 25 were identified. Pollen allergens restricted to subtropical grasses (groups 22-24) were also present within the JGP transcriptome and proteome. Mass spectrometry confirmed the IgE-reactive components of JGP included isoforms of Sor h 1, Sor h 2, Sor h 13, and Sor h 23. Our integrated molecular approach revealed qualitative differences between the allergenic components of JGP and temperate grass pollens. Knowledge of these newly identified allergens has the potential to improve specific diagnosis and allergen immunotherapy treatment for patients with grass pollen allergy in subtropical regions and reduce the burden of allergic respiratory disease globally.
Light signaling by phytochrome B in long days inhibits flowering in sorghum by increasing expression of the long day floral repressors PSEUDORESPONSE REGULATOR PROTEIN (SbPRR37, Ma1) and GRAIN NUMBER, PLANT HEIGHT AND HEADING DATE 7 (SbGHD7, Ma6). SbPRR37 and SbGHD7 RNA abundance peaks in the morning and in the evening of long days through coordinate regulation by light and output from the circadian clock. 58 M, a phytochrome B deficient (phyB-1, ma3R) genotype, flowered ∼60 days earlier than 100 M (PHYB, Ma3) in long days and ∼11 days earlier in short days. Populations derived from 58 M (Ma1, ma3R, Ma5, ma6) and R.07007 (Ma1, Ma3, ma5, Ma6) varied in flowering time due to QTL aligned to PHYB/phyB-1 (Ma3), Ma5, and GHD7/ghd7-1 (Ma6). PHYC was proposed as a candidate gene for Ma5 based on alignment and allelic variation. PHYB and Ma5 (PHYC) were epistatic to Ma1 and Ma6 and progeny recessive for either gene flowered early in long days. Light signaling mediated by PhyB was required for high expression of the floral repressors SbPRR37 and SbGHD7 during the evening of long days. In 100 M (PHYB) the floral activators SbEHD1, SbCN8 and SbCN12 were repressed in long days and de-repressed in short days. In 58 M (phyB-1) these genes were highly expressed in long and short days. Furthermore, SbCN15, the ortholog of rice Hd3a (FT), is expressed at low levels in 100 M but at high levels in 58 M (phyB-1) regardless of day length, indicating that PhyB regulation of SbCN15 expression may modify flowering time in a photoperiod-insensitive manner.
Sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS; EC 2.4.1.14), sucrose synthase (SuSy; EC 2.4.1.13) and soluble acid invertase (SAI; EC 3.2.1.26) are key enzymes that regulate sucrose fluxes in sink tissues for sucrose accumulation in sugarcane and sorghum. In this study, the expression profiling of sucrose-related genes, i.e. SPS, SuSy and SAI in two sets of hybrids viz., one from a Sorghum × Saccharum cross and the other from a Saccharum × Sorghum cross, high- and low-sucrose varieties, sweet and grain sorghum lines was carried out using semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) at monthly intervals. The results indicated differential expression of the three genes in high- and low-sucrose forms. Expression of SPS and SuSy genes was high in high-sucrose varieties, Saccharum × Sorghum hybrids and sweet sorghum and lower in low-sucrose varieties, Sorghum × Saccharum hybrids and grain sorghum. SAI showed a lower expression in high-sucrose varieties, Saccharum × Sorghum hybrids and sweet sorghum and higher expression in low-sucrose varieties, Sorghum × Saccharum hybrids and the grain sorghum. This study describes the positive association of SPS and SuSy and negative association of SAI on sucrose accumulation. This is the first report of differential expression profiling of SPS, SuSy and SAI in intergeneric hybrids involving sugarcane and sorghum, which opens the possibility for production of novel hybrids with improved sucrose content and with early maturity.
During seed fill in cereals, nutrients are symplasmically unloaded to vascular parenchyma in ovules, but thereafter nutrient transport is less certain. In Zea mays, two mechanisms of nutrient passage through the chalaza and nucellus have been hypothesized, apoplasmic and symplasmic. In a recent study, nutrients first passed non-selectively to the chalazal apoplasm and were then selectively absorbed by the nucellus before being released to the endosperm apoplasm. This study reports that the promoter of OUTER CELL LAYER3 (PSbOCL3) from Sorghum bicolor (sorghum) directs gene expression to chalazal cells where the apoplasmic barrier is thought to form. The aims were to elucidate PSbOCL3 expression patterns in sorghum and relate them to processes of nutrient pathway development in kernels and to recognized functions of the homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip) IV transcription factor family to which the promoter belongs. PSbOCL3 was cloned and transformed into sorghum as a promoter-GUS (β-glucuronidase) construct. Plant tissues from control and transformed plants were then stained for GUS, and kernels were cleared and characterized using differential interference contrast microscopy. A symplasmic disconnect between the chalaza and nucellus during seed fill is inferred by the combination of two phenomena: differentiation of a distinct nucellar epidermis adjacent to the chalaza, and lysis of GUS-stained chalazal cells immediately proximal to the nucellar epidermis. Compression of the GUS-stained chalazal cells during kernel maturation produced the kernel abscission zone (closing layer). The results suggest that the HD-Zip IV transcription factor SbOCL3 regulates kernel nutrition and abscission. The latter is consistent with evidence that members of this transcription factor group regulate silique abscission and dehiscence in Arabidopsis thaliana. Collectively, the findings suggest that processes of floral organ abscission are conserved among angiosperms and may in some respects differ from processes of leaf abscission.
Aloe (Aloe spp), containing abundant polysaccharides and numerous bioactive ingredients, has remarkable medical, ornamental, calleidic, and edible values. In the present study, the total RNA was extracted from aloe leaf tissue. The isolated high-quality RNA was further used to clone actin gene by using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The result of sequence analysis for the amplified fragment revealed that the cloned actin gene was 1012 bp in length (GenBank accession No. KC751541.1) and contained a 924-bp coding region and encoded a protein consisting of 307 amino acids. Homologous alignment showed that it shared over 80 and 96% identity with the nucleotide and amino acid sequences of actin from other plants, respectively. In addition, the cloned gene was used for phylogenetic analyses based on the deduced amino acid sequences, and the results suggested that the actin gene is highly conserved in evolution. The findings of this study will be useful for investigating the expression patterns of other genes in Aloe.
The aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of sorghum grain supplementation on plasma glucose, insulin and glucagon concentrations, and hepatic mRNA concentrations of insulin receptor (INSR), pyruvate carboxylase (PC), and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PCK1) mRNA and their association with nutrient intake, digestion and rumen volatile fatty acids (VFA) in cattle and sheep fed a fresh temperate pasture. Twelve Hereford × Aberdeen Angus heifers and 12 Corriedale × Milchschaf wethers in positive energy balance were assigned within each species to one of two treatments (n = 6 per treatment within specie): non-supplemented or supplemented with sorghum grain at 15 g/kg of their body weight (BW). Supplemented cattle had greater plasma glucose concentrations, decreased plasma glucagon concentrations and tended to have greater plasma insulin and insulin-to-glucagon ratio than non-supplemented ones. Hepatic expression of INSR and PC mRNA did not differ between treatments but PCK1 mRNA was less in supplemented than non-supplemented cattle. Supplemented sheep tended to have greater plasma glucagon concentrations than non-supplemented ones. Plasma glucose, insulin, insulin-to-glucagon ratio, and hepatic expression of INSR and PC mRNA did not differ between treatments, but PCK1 mRNA was less in supplemented than non-supplemented sheep. The inclusion of sorghum grain in the diet decreased PCK1 mRNA but did not affect PC mRNA in both species; these effects were associated with changes in glucose and endocrine profiles in cattle but not in sheep. Results would suggest that sorghum grain supplementation of animals in positive energy balance (cattle and sheep) fed a fresh temperate pasture would modify hepatic metabolism to prioritize the use of propionate as a gluconeogenic precursor.
Tef (Eragrostis tef), an indigenous cereal critical to food security in the Horn of Africa, is rich in minerals and protein, resistant to many biotic and abiotic stresses and safe for diabetics as well as sufferers of immune reactions to wheat gluten. We present the genome of tef, the first species in the grass subfamily Chloridoideae and the first allotetraploid assembled de novo. We sequenced the tef genome for marker-assisted breeding, to shed light on the molecular mechanisms conferring tef's desirable nutritional and agronomic properties, and to make its genome publicly available as a community resource. The draft genome contains 672 Mbp representing 87% of the genome size estimated from flow cytometry. We also sequenced two transcriptomes, one from a normalized RNA library and another from unnormalized RNASeq data. The normalized RNA library revealed around 38000 transcripts that were then annotated by the SwissProt group. The CoGe comparative genomics platform was used to compare the tef genome to other genomes, notably sorghum. Scaffolds comprising approximately half of the genome size were ordered by syntenic alignment to sorghum producing tef pseudo-chromosomes, which were sorted into A and B genomes as well as compared to the genetic map of tef. The draft genome was used to identify novel SSR markers, investigate target genes for abiotic stress resistance studies, and understand the evolution of the prolamin family of proteins that are responsible for the immune response to gluten. It is highly plausible that breeding targets previously identified in other cereal crops will also be valuable breeding targets in tef. The draft genome and transcriptome will be of great use for identifying these targets for genetic improvement of this orphan crop that is vital for feeding 50 million people in the Horn of Africa.
Sugarcane is the source of sugar in all tropical and subtropical countries and is becoming increasingly important for bio-based fuels. However, its large (10 Gb), polyploid, complex genome has hindered genome based breeding efforts. Here we release the largest and most diverse set of sugarcane genome sequences to date, as part of an on-going initiative to provide a sugarcane genomic information resource, with the ultimate goal of producing a gold standard genome. Three hundred and seventeen chiefly euchromatic BACs were sequenced. A reference set of one thousand four hundred manually-annotated protein-coding genes was generated. A small RNA collection and a RNA-seq library were used to explore expression patterns and the sRNA landscape. In the sucrose and starch metabolism pathway, 16 non-redundant enzyme-encoding genes were identified. One of the sucrose pathway genes, sucrose-6-phosphate phosphohydrolase, is duplicated in sugarcane and sorghum, but not in rice and maize. A diversity analysis of the s6pp duplication region revealed haplotype-structured sequence composition. Examination of hom(e)ologous loci indicate both sequence structural and sRNA landscape variation. A synteny analysis shows that the sugarcane genome has expanded relative to the sorghum genome, largely due to the presence of transposable elements and uncharacterized intergenic and intronic sequences. This release of sugarcane genomic sequences will advance our understanding of sugarcane genetics and contribute to the development of molecular tools for breeding purposes and gene discovery.
Heat stress transcription factors (Hsfs) regulate gene expression in response to heat and many other environmental stresses in plants. Understanding the adaptive evolution of Hsf genes in the grass family will provide potentially useful information for the genetic improvement of modern crops to handle increasing global temperatures. In this work, we performed a genome-wide survey of Hsf genes in 5 grass species, including rice, maize, sorghum, Setaria, and Brachypodium, by describing their phylogenetic relationships, adaptive evolution, and expression patterns under abiotic stresses. The Hsf genes in grasses were divided into 24 orthologous gene clusters (OGCs) based on phylogeneitc relationship and synteny, suggesting that 24 Hsf genes were present in the ancestral grass genome. However, 9 duplication and 4 gene-loss events were identified in the tested genomes. A maximum-likelihood analysis revealed the effects of positive selection in the evolution of 11 OGCs and suggested that OGCs with duplicated or lost genes were more readily influenced by positive selection than other OGCs. Further investigation revealed that positive selection acted on only one of the duplicated genes in 8 of 9 paralogous pairs, suggesting that neofunctionalization contributed to the evolution of these duplicated pairs. We also investigated the expression patterns of rice and maize Hsf genes under heat, salt, drought, and cold stresses. The results revealed divergent expression patterns between the duplicated genes. This study demonstrates that neofunctionalization by changes in expression pattern and function following gene duplication has been an important factor in the maintenance and divergence of grass Hsf genes.
Abiotic stresses which include drought and heat are amongst the main limiting factors for plant growth and crop productivity. In the field, these stress types are rarely presented individually and plants are often subjected to a combination of stress types. Sorghum bicolor is a cereal crop which is grown in arid and semi-arid regions and is particularly well adapted to the hot and dry conditions in which it originates and is now grown as a crop. In order to better understand the mechanisms underlying combined stress tolerance in this important crop, we have used microarrays to investigate the transcriptional response of Sorghum subjected to heat and drought stresses imposed both individually and in combination. Microarrays consisting of 28585 gene probes identified gene expression changes equating to ~4% and 18% of genes on the chip following drought and heat stresses respectively. In response to combined stress ~20% of probes were differentially expressed. Whilst many of these transcript changes were in common with those changed in response to heat or drought alone, the levels of 2043 specific transcripts (representing 7% of all gene probes) were found to only be changed following the combined stress treatment. Ontological analysis of these 'unique' transcripts identified a potential role for specific transcription factors including MYB78 and ATAF1, chaperones including unique heat shock proteins (HSPs) and metabolic pathways including polyamine biosynthesis in the Sorghum combined stress response. These results show evidence for both cross-talk and specificity in the Sorghum response to combined heat and drought stress. It is clear that some aspects of the combined stress response are unique compared to those of individual stresses. A functional characterization of the genes and pathways identified here could lead to new targets for the enhancement of plant stress tolerance, which will be particularly important in the face of climate change and the increasing prevalence of these abiotic stress types.
C2H2 type of zinc finger transcription factors (TFs) play crucial roles in plant stress response and hormone signal transduction. Hence considering its importance, genome-wide investigation and characterization of C2H2 zinc finger proteins were performed in Arabidopsis, rice and poplar but no such study was conducted in foxtail millet which is a C4 Panicoid model crop well known for its abiotic stress tolerance. The present study identified 124 C2H2-type zinc finger TFs in foxtail millet (SiC2H2) and physically mapped them onto the genome. The gene duplication analysis revealed that SiC2H2s primarily expanded in the genome through tandem duplication. The phylogenetic tree classified these TFs into five groups (I-V). Further, miRNAs targeting SiC2H2 transcripts in foxtail millet were identified. Heat map demonstrated differential and tissue-specific expression patterns of these SiC2H2 genes. Comparative physical mapping between foxtail millet SiC2H2 genes and its orthologs of sorghum, maize and rice revealed the evolutionary relationships of C2H2 type of zinc finger TFs. The duplication and divergence data provided novel insight into the evolutionary aspects of these TFs in foxtail millet and related grass species. Expression profiling of candidate SiC2H2 genes in response to salinity, dehydration and cold stress showed differential expression pattern of these genes at different time points of stresses.
Bidirectional gene pairs exist as a specific form of gene organization in microorganisms and mammals as well as in model plant species, such as Arabidopsis and rice. Little is known about bidirectional gene pairs in maize, which has a large genome and is one of the most important grain crops. We conducted a genome-wide search in maize using genome sequencing results from the inbred line B73. In total, 1696 bidirectional transcript pairs were identified using a modified search model. We functionally characterized the promoter activity of the intergenic regions of most of the bidirectional transcript pairs that were expressed in embryos using a maize embryo transient expression system. A comparative study of bidirectional gene pairs performed for three monocot (Zea mays, Sorghum bicolor and Oryza sativa) and two dicot (Arabidopsis thaliana and Glycine max) plant genomes showed that bidirectional gene pairs were abundant in the five plant species. Orthologous bidirectional gene pairs were clearly distinguishable between the monocot and dicot species although the total numbers of orthologous bidirectional genes were similar. Analysis of the gene pairs using the Blast2GO software suite showed that the molecular functions (MF), cellular components (CC), and biological processes (BP) associated with the bidirectional transcripts were similar among the five plant species. The evolutionary analysis of the function and structure of orthologous bidirectional gene pairs in various plant species revealed a potential pathway of their origin, which may be required for the evolution of a new species.
Miscanthus is a promising biomass crop for temperate regions. Despite the increasing interest in this plant, limited sequence information has constrained research into its biology, physiology, and breeding. The whole genome transcriptomes of M. sinensis and M. sacchariflorus presented in this study may provide good resources to understand functional compositions of two important Miscanthus genomes and their evolutionary relationships. For M. sinensis, a total of 457,891 and 512,950 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were produced from leaf and rhizome tissues, respectively, which were assembled into 12,166 contigs and 89,648 singletons for leaf, and 13,170 contigs and 112,138 singletons for rhizome. For M. sacchariflorus, a total of 288,806 and 267,952 ESTs from leaf and rhizome tissues, respectively, were assembled into 8,732 contigs and 66,881 singletons for leaf, and 8,104 contigs and 63,212 singletons for rhizome. Based on the distributions of synonymous nucleotide substitution (Ks), sorghum and Miscanthus diverged about 6.2 million years ago (MYA), Saccharum and Miscanthus diverged 4.6 MYA, and M. sinensis and M. sacchariflorus diverged 1.5 MYA. The pairwise alignment of predicted protein sequences from sorghum-Miscanthus and two Miscanthus species found a total of 43,770 and 35,818 nsSNPs, respectively. The impacts of striking mutations found by nsSNPs were much lower between sorghum and Miscanthus than those between the two Miscanthus species, perhaps as a consequence of the much higher level of gene duplication in Miscanthus and resulting ability to buffer essential functions against disturbance. The ESTs generated in the present study represent a significant addition to Miscanthus functional genomics resources, permitting us to discover some candidate genes associated with enhanced biomass production. Ks distributions based on orthologous ESTs may serve as a guideline for future research into the evolution of Miscanthus species as well as its close relatives sorghum and Saccharum.
Sorghum genotypes used for grain production in temperate regions are photoperiod insensitive and flower early avoiding adverse environments during the reproductive phase. In contrast, energy sorghum hybrids are highly photoperiod sensitive with extended vegetative phases in long days, resulting in enhanced biomass accumulation. SbPRR37 and SbGHD7 contribute to photoperiod sensitivity in sorghum by repressing expression of SbEHD1 and FT-like genes, thereby delaying flowering in long days with minimal influence in short days (PNAS_108:16469-16474, 2011; Plant Genome_in press, 2014). The GIGANTEA (GI)-CONSTANS (CO)-FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) pathway regulates flowering time in Arabidopsis and the grasses (J Exp Bot_62:2453-2463, 2011). In long day flowering plants, such as Arabidopsis and barley, CONSTANS activates FT expression and flowering in long days. In rice, a short day flowering plant, Hd1, the ortholog of CONSTANS, activates flowering in short days and represses flowering in long days. Quantitative trait loci (QTL) that modify flowering time in sorghum were identified by screening Recombinant Inbred Lines (RILs) derived from BTx642 and Tx7000 in long days, short days, and under field conditions. Analysis of the flowering time QTL on SBI-10 revealed that BTx642 encodes a recessive CONSTANS allele containing a His106Tyr substitution in B-box 2 known to inactivate CONSTANS in Arabidopsis thaliana. Genetic analysis characterized sorghum CONSTANS as a floral activator that promotes flowering by inducing the expression of EARLY HEADING DATE 1 (SbEHD1) and sorghum orthologs of the maize FT genes ZCN8 (SbCN8) and ZCN12 (SbCN12). The floral repressor PSEUDORESPONSE REGULATOR PROTEIN 37 (PRR37) inhibits sorghum CONSTANS activity and flowering in long days. Sorghum CONSTANS is an activator of flowering that is repressed post-transcriptionally in long days by the floral inhibitor PRR37, contributing to photoperiod sensitive flowering in Sorghum bicolor, a short day plant.
A vacuolar proton pyrophosphatase cDNA clone was isolated from Sorghum bicolor (SbVPPase) using end-to-end gene-specific primer amplification. It showed 80-90% homology at the nucleotide and 85-95% homology at the amino acid level with other VPPases. The gene was introduced into expression vector pCAMBIA1301 under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (CaMV35S) promoter and transformed into Agrobacterium tumifaciens strain LBA4404 to infect embryogenic calli of finger millet (Eleusine coracana). Successful transfer of SbVPPase was confirmed by a GUS histochemical assay and PCR analysis. Both, controls and transgenic plants were subjected to 100 and 200mM NaCl and certain biochemical and physiological parameters were studied. Relative water content (RWC), plant height, leaf expansion, finger length and width and grain weight were severely reduced (50-70%), and the flowering period was delayed by 20% in control plants compared to transgenic plants under salinity stress. With increasing salt stress, the proline and chlorophyll contents as well as the enzyme activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), guaiacol peroxidase (GPX) and glutathione reductase (GR) increased by 25-100% in transgenics, while malondialdehyde (MDA) showed a 2-4-fold decrease. The increased activities of antioxidant enzymes and the reduction in the MDA content suggest efficient scavenging of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in transgenics and, as a consequence, probably alleviation of salt stress. Also, the leaf tissues of the transgenics accumulated 1.5-2.5-fold higher Na(+) and 0.4-0.8-fold higher K(+) levels. Together, these results clearly demonstrate that overexpression of SbVPPase in transgenic finger millet enhances the plant's performance under salt stress.
African sorghum opaque beers play a vital role in the diet of millions of consumers. In the current study we investigated the growth profiles of yeast strains isolated from kpete-kpete, a traditional starter used to produce tchoukoutou, an opaque sorghum beer in Benin. 10 yeast strains were isolated from sorghum beer starters and cultivated under both liquid and solid media for phenotypic growth characterization. All yeast isolates were able to grow both on solid and liquid media. Based on their growth profiles, the isolates were clustered into three groups: (i) the aggressive growth pattern (30%), (ii) the moderate growth pattern (50%), and (iii) the slow growth pattern (20%). Based on gene expression pattern, absorbance (A(600 nm)) and diameter of growth in both liquid and solid media respectively, yeast strains YK34, YK15 and YK48 were clustered in the first group, and referred to as the most aggressive growth strains, followed by group 2 (YK24, YK5, YK12, YK20, YK2) and group 3 (YK37, YK41). This growth pattern was confirmed by Invertase gene expression profiling of the yeasts showing group 1 with high level of Invertase gene expression followed by group 2 and group 3 respectively. Our results suggest that YK34, YK15 and YK48 and YK2 yeast strains constitute the best candidates in fermentation of sorghum beer production based on growth rate and assimilation of carbon and nitrogen sources.
bZIP proteins are one of the largest transcriptional regulators playing crucial roles in plant development, physiological processes, and biotic/abiotic stress responses. Despite the availability of recently published draft genome sequence of Cucumis sativus, no comprehensive investigation of these family members has been presented for cucumber. We have identified 64 bZIP transcription factor-encoding genes in the cucumber genome. Based on structural features of their encoded proteins, CsbZIP genes could be classified into 6 groups. Cucumber bZIP genes were expanded mainly by segmental duplication rather than tandem duplication. Although segmental duplication rate of the CsbZIP genes was lower than that of Arabidopsis, rice and sorghum, it was observed as a common expansion mechanism. Some orthologous relationships and chromosomal rearrangements were observed according to comparative mapping analysis with other species. Genome-wide expression analysis of bZIP genes indicated that 64 CsbZIP genes were differentially expressed in at least one of the ten sampled tissues. A total of 4 CsbZIP genes displayed higher expression values in leaf, flowers and root tissues. The in silico micro-RNA (miRNA) and target transcript analyses identified that a total of 21 CsbZIP genes were targeted by 38 plant miRNAs. CsbZIP20 and CsbZIP22 are the most targeted by miR165 and miR166 family members, respectively. We also analyzed the expression of ten CsbZIP genes in the root and leaf tissues of drought-stressed cucumber using quantitative RT-PCR. All of the selected CsbZIP genes were measured as increased in root tissue at 24th h upon PEG treatment. Contrarily, the down-regulation was observed in leaf tissues of all analyzed CsbZIP genes. CsbZIP12 and CsbZIP44 genes showed gradual induction of expression in root tissues during time points. This genome-wide identification and expression profiling provides new opportunities for cloning and functional analyses, which may be used in further studies for improving stress tolerance in plants.
Carotenoids are important accessory pigments in plants that are essential for photosynthesis. Phytoene synthase (PSY), a rate-controlling enzyme in the carotenoid biosynthesis pathway, has been widely characterized in rice, maize, and sorghum, but at present there are no reports describing this enzyme in cotton. In this study, GhPSY was identified as a candidate gene for the red plant phenotype via a combined strategy using: (1) molecular marker data for loci closely linked to R1; (2) the whole-genome scaffold sequence from Gossypium raimondii; (3) gene expression patterns in cotton accessions expressing the red plant and green plant phenotypes; and (4) the significant correlation between a single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in GhPSY and leaf phenotypes of progeny in the (Sub16 × T586) F2 segregating population. GhPSY was relatively highly expressed in leaves, and the protein was localized to the plastid where it appeared to be mostly attached to the surface of thylakoid membranes. GhPSY mRNA was expressed at a significantly higher level in T586 and SL1-7-1 red plants than TM-1 and Hai7124 green plants. SNP analysis in the GhPSY locus showed co-segregation with the red and green plant phenotypes in the (Sub16 × T586) F2 segregating population. A phylogenetic analysis showed that GhPSY belongs to the PSY2 subfamily, which is related to photosynthesis in photosynthetic tissues. Using a reverse genetics approach based on Tobacco rattle virus-induced gene silencing, we showed that the knockdown of GhPSY caused a highly uniform bleaching of the red color in newly-emerged leaves in both T586 and SL1-7-1 plants with a red plant phenotype. These findings indicate that GhPSY is important for engineering the carotenoid metabolic pathway in pigment production.
Malate and citrate efflux from root apices is a mechanism of Al(3+) tolerance in many plant species. Citrate efflux is facilitated by members of the MATE (multidrug and toxic compound exudation) family localized to the plasma membrane of root cells. Barley (Hordeum vulgare) is among the most Al(3+)-sensitive cereal species but the small genotypic variation in tolerance that is present is correlated with citrate efflux via a MATE transporter named HvAACT1. This study used a biotechnological approach to increase the Al(3+) tolerance of barley by transforming it with two MATE genes that encode citrate transporters: SbMATE is the major Al(3+)-tolerance gene from sorghum whereas FRD3 is involved with Fe nutrition in Arabidopsis. Independent transgenic and null T3 lines were generated for both transgenes. Lines expressing SbMATE showed Al(3+)-activated citrate efflux from root apices and greater tolerance to Al(3+) toxicity than nulls in hydroponic and short-term soil trials. Transgenic lines expressing FRD3 exhibited similar phenotypes except citrate release from roots occurred constitutively. The Al(3+) tolerance of these lines was compared with previously generated transgenic barley lines overexpressing the endogenous HvAACT1 gene and the TaALMT1 gene from wheat. Barley lines expressing TaALMT1 showed significantly greater Al(3+) tolerance than all lines expressing MATE genes. This study highlights the relative efficacy of different organic anion transport proteins for increasing the Al(3+) tolerance of an important crop species.
Leaves of almost all C4 lineages separate the reactions of photosynthesis into the mesophyll (M) and bundle sheath (BS). The extent to which messenger RNA profiles of M and BS cells from independent C4 lineages resemble each other is not known. To address this, we conducted deep sequencing of RNA isolated from the M and BS of Setaria viridis and compared these data with publicly available information from maize (Zea mays). This revealed a high correlation (r=0.89) between the relative abundance of transcripts encoding proteins of the core C4 pathway in M and BS cells in these species, indicating significant convergence in transcript accumulation in these evolutionarily independent C4 lineages. We also found that the vast majority of genes encoding proteins of the C4 cycle in S. viridis are syntenic to homologs used by maize. In both lineages, 122 and 212 homologous transcription factors were preferentially expressed in the M and BS, respectively. Sixteen shared regulators of chloroplast biogenesis were identified, 14 of which were syntenic homologs in maize and S. viridis. In sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), a third C4 grass, we found that 82% of these trans-factors were also differentially expressed in either M or BS cells. Taken together, these data provide, to our knowledge, the first quantification of convergence in transcript abundance in the M and BS cells from independent lineages of C4 grasses. Furthermore, the repeated recruitment of syntenic homologs from large gene families strongly implies that parallel evolution of both structural genes and trans-factors underpins the polyphyletic evolution of this highly complex trait in the monocotyledons.
Sorghum is a C4 plant adapted to semi-arid environments, and characterized by high water-use efficiency. To better understand the molecular and physiological basis of drought response the sorghum genotype IS19453, selected as a drought tolerant line during field trials, was evaluated in a "dry-down" experiment under controlled conditions. The incoming stress was monitored by determining the water potential available for 4-leaf-old plants. Control plants were maintained at approximately 2.5 pF, while water stressed plants were sampled at 3.12, 3.65 and 4.14 pF. Transcriptome analysis was monitored using a high density microarray containing all available sorghum TC sequences. Drought affected gene expression at 4.14 pF; 1205 genes resulted up-regulated. Most of the differentially expressed genes were involved in regulation of transcription (bZIPs, MYBs, HOXs), signal transduction (phosphoesterases, kinases, phosphatases), carbon metabolism (NADP-ME), detoxification (CYPs, GST, AKRs), osmoprotection mechanisms (P5CS) and stability of protein membranes (DHN1, LEA, HSPs). Several of them could be located in stay green QTLs. Eight were selected and validated by qRT-PCR. A dedicated miRNA microarray allowed the identification of four families of miRNAs up-regulated in the earlier phase of stress, while one family was down-regulated. The selected drought related genes could be used to screen for potential drought tolerance in other sorghum genotypes.
One of the major quantitative trait loci for flowering time in maize, the Vegetative to generative transition 1 (Vgt1) locus, corresponds to an upstream (70 kb) noncoding regulatory element of ZmRap2.7, a repressor of flowering. At Vgt1, a miniature transposon (MITE) insertion into a conserved noncoding sequence was previously found to be highly associated with early flowering in independent studies. Because cytosine methylation is known to be associated with transposons and to influence gene expression, we aimed to investigate how DNA methylation patterns in wild-type and mutant Vgt1 correlate with ZmRap2.7 expression. The methylation state at Vgt1 was assayed in leaf samples of maize inbred and F1 hybrid samples, and at the syntenic region in sorghum. The Vgt1-linked conserved noncoding sequence was very scarcely methylated both in maize and sorghum. However, in the early maize Vgt1 allele, the region immediately flanking the highly methylated MITE insertion was significantly more methylated and showed features of methylation spreading. Allele-specific expression assays revealed that the presence of the MITE and its heavy methylation appear to be linked to altered ZmRap2.7 transcription. Although not providing proof of causative connection, our results associate transposon-linked differential methylation with allelic state and gene expression at a major flowering time quantitative trait locus in maize.
Sorghum is an important cereal crop, which requires large quantities of nitrogen fertilizer for achieving commercial yields. Identification of the genes responsible for low-N tolerance in sorghum will facilitate understanding of the molecular mechanisms of low-N tolerance, and also facilitate the genetic improvement of sorghum through marker-assisted selection or gene transformation. In this study we compared the transcriptomes of root tissues from seven sorghum genotypes having differential response to low-N stress. Illumina RNA-sequencing detected several common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between four low-N tolerant sorghum genotypes (San Chi San, China17, KS78 and high-NUE bulk) and three sensitive genotypes (CK60, BTx623 and low-NUE bulk). In sensitive genotypes, N-stress increased the abundance of DEG transcripts associated with stress responses including oxidative stress and stimuli were abundant. The tolerant genotypes adapt to N deficiency by producing greater root mass for efficient uptake of nutrients. In tolerant genotypes, higher abundance of transcripts related to high affinity nitrate transporters (NRT2.2, NRT2.3, NRT2.5, and NRT2.6) and lysine histidine transporter 1 (LHT1), may suggest an improved uptake efficiency of inorganic and organic forms of nitrogen. Higher abundance of SEC14 cytosolic factor family protein transcript in tolerant genotypes could lead to increased membrane stability and tolerance to N-stress. Comparison of transcriptomes between N-stress tolerant and sensitive genotypes revealed several common DEG transcripts. Some of these DEGs were evaluated further by comparing the transcriptomes of genotypes grown under full N. The DEG transcripts showed higher expression in tolerant genotypes could be used for transgenic over-expression in sensitive genotypes of sorghum and related crops for increased tolerance to N-stress, which results in increased nitrogen use efficiency for sustainable agriculture.
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is an important limitation to food security in tropical and subtropical regions. High Al saturation on acid soils limits root development, reducing water and nutrient uptake. In addition to naturally occurring acid soils, agricultural practices may decrease soil pH, leading to yield losses due to Al toxicity. Elucidating the genetic and molecular mechanisms underlying maize Al tolerance is expected to accelerate the development of Al-tolerant cultivars. Five genomic regions were significantly associated with Al tolerance, using 54,455 SNP markers in a recombinant inbred line population derived from Cateto Al237. Candidate genes co-localized with Al tolerance QTLs were further investigated. Near-isogenic lines (NILs) developed for ZmMATE2 were as Al-sensitive as the recurrent line, indicating that this candidate gene was not responsible for the Al tolerance QTL on chromosome 5, qALT5. However, ZmNrat1, a maize homolog to OsNrat1, which encodes an Al(3+) specific transporter previously implicated in rice Al tolerance, was mapped at ~40 Mbp from qALT5. We demonstrate for the first time that ZmNrat1 is preferentially expressed in maize root tips and is up-regulated by Al, similarly to OsNrat1 in rice, suggesting a role of this gene in maize Al tolerance. The strongest-effect QTL was mapped on chromosome 6 (qALT6), within a 0.5 Mbp region where three copies of the Al tolerance gene, ZmMATE1, were found in tandem configuration. qALT6 was shown to increase Al tolerance in maize; the qALT6-NILs carrying three copies of ZmMATE1 exhibited a two-fold increase in Al tolerance, and higher expression of ZmMATE1 compared to the Al sensitive recurrent parent. Interestingly, a new source of Al tolerance via ZmMATE1 was identified in a Brazilian elite line that showed high expression of ZmMATE1 but carries a single copy of ZmMATE1. High ZmMATE1 expression, controlled either by three copies of the target gene or by an unknown molecular mechanism, is responsible for Al tolerance mediated by qALT6. As Al tolerant alleles at qALT6 are rare in maize, marker-assisted introgression of this QTL is an important strategy to improve maize adaptation to acid soils worldwide.
Sugarcane is an important crop and a major source of sugar and alcohol. In this study, we performed de novo assembly and transcriptome annotation for six sugarcane genotypes involved in bi-parental crosses. The de novo assembly of the sugarcane transcriptome was performed using short reads generated using the Illumina RNA-Seq platform. We produced more than 400 million reads, which were assembled into 72,269 unigenes. Based on a similarity search, the unigenes showed significant similarity to more than 28,788 sorghum proteins, including a set of 5,272 unigenes that are not present in the public sugarcane EST databases; many of these unigenes are likely putative undescribed sugarcane genes. From this collection of unigenes, a large number of molecular markers were identified, including 5,106 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) and 708,125 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). This new dataset will be a useful resource for future genetic and genomic studies in this species.
Abscisic acid is an essential hormone for seed dormancy. Our previous study using the plant gene switch system, a chemically induced gene expression system, demonstrated that induction of 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (NCED), a rate-limiting ABA biosynthesis gene, was sufficient to suppress germination in imbibed Arabidopsis seeds. Here, we report development of an efficient experimental system that causes amplification of NCED expression during seed maturation. The system was created with a Triticum aestivum promoter containing ABA responsive elements (ABREs) and a Sorghum bicolor NCED to cause ABA-stimulated ABA biosynthesis and signaling, through a positive feedback mechanism. The chimeric gene pABRE:NCED enhanced NCED and ABF (ABRE-binding factor) expression in Arabidopsis Columbia-0 seeds, which caused 9- to 73-fold increases in ABA levels. The pABRE:NCED seeds exhibited unusually deep dormancy which lasted for more than 3 months. Interestingly, the amplified ABA pathways also caused enhanced expression of Arabidopsis NCED5, revealing the presence of positive feedback in the native system. These results demonstrated the robustness of positive feedback mechanisms and the significance of NCED expression, or single metabolic change, during seed maturation. The pABRE:NCED system provides an excellent experimental system producing dormant and non-dormant seeds of the same maternal origin, which differ only in zygotic ABA. The pABRE:NCED seeds contain a GFP marker which enables seed sorting between transgenic and null segregants and are ideal for comparative analysis. In addition to its utility in basic research, the system can also be applied to prevention of pre-harvest sprouting during crop production, and therefore contributes to translational biology.
Paspalum dilatatum Poir. (common name dallisgrass) is a native grass species of South America, with special relevance to dairy and red meat production. P. dilatatum exhibits higher forage quality than other C4 forage grasses and is tolerant to frost and water stress. This species is predominantly cultivated in an apomictic monoculture, with an inherent high risk that biotic and abiotic stresses could potentially devastate productivity. Therefore, advanced breeding strategies that characterise and use available genetic diversity, or assess germplasm collections effectively are required to deliver advanced cultivars for production systems. However, there are limited genomic resources available for this forage grass species. Transcriptome sequencing using second-generation sequencing platforms has been employed using pooled RNA from different tissues (stems, roots, leaves and inflorescences) at the final reproductive stage of P. dilatatum cultivar Primo. A total of 324,695 sequence reads were obtained, corresponding to c. 102 Mbp. The sequences were assembled, generating 20,169 contigs of a combined length of 9,336,138 nucleotides. The contigs were BLAST analysed against the fully sequenced grass species of Oryza sativa subsp. japonica, Brachypodium distachyon, the closely related Sorghum bicolor and foxtail millet (Setaria italica) genomes as well as against the UniRef 90 protein database allowing a comprehensive gene ontology analysis to be performed. The contigs generated from the transcript sequencing were also analysed for the presence of simple sequence repeats (SSRs). A total of 2,339 SSR motifs were identified within 1,989 contigs and corresponding primer pairs were designed. Empirical validation of a cohort of 96 SSRs was performed, with 34% being polymorphic between sexual and apomictic biotypes. The development of genetic and genomic resources for P. dilatatum will contribute to gene discovery and expression studies. Association of gene function with agronomic traits will significantly enable molecular breeding and advance germplasm enhancement.
Small auxin-up RNAs (SAURs) are the early auxin-responsive genes represented by a large multigene family in plants. Here, we identified 79 SAUR gene family members from maize (Zea mays subsp. mays) by a reiterative database search and manual annotation. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the SAUR proteins from Arabidopsis, rice, sorghum, and maize had divided into 16 groups. These genes were non-randomly distributed across the maize chromosomes, and segmental duplication and tandem duplication contributed to the expansion of the maize SAUR gene family. Synteny analysis established orthology relationships and functional linkages between SAUR genes in maize and sorghum genomes. We also found that the auxin-responsive elements were conserved in the upstream sequences of maize SAUR members. Selection analyses identified some significant site-specific constraints acted on most SAUR paralogs. Expression profiles based on microarray data have provided insights into the possible functional divergence among members of the SAUR gene family. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis indicated that some of the 10 randomly selected ZmSAUR genes could be induced at least in maize shoot or root tissue tested. The results reveal a comprehensive overview of the maize SAUR gene family and may pave the way for deciphering their function during plant development.
WD40 proteins play a crucial role in diverse protein-protein interactions by acting as scaffolding molecules and thus assisting in the proper activity of proteins. Hence, systematic characterization and expression profiling of these WD40 genes in foxtail millet would enable us to understand the networks of WD40 proteins and their biological processes and gene functions. In the present study, a genome-wide survey was conducted and 225 potential WD40 genes were identified. Phylogenetic analysis categorized the WD40 proteins into 5 distinct sub-families (I-V). Gene Ontology annotation revealed the biological roles of the WD40 proteins along with its cellular components and molecular functions. In silico comparative mapping with sorghum, maize and rice demonstrated the orthologous relationships and chromosomal rearrangements including duplication, inversion and deletion of WD40 genes. Estimation of synonymous and non-synonymous substitution rates revealed its evolutionary significance in terms of gene-duplication and divergence. Expression profiling against abiotic stresses provided novel insights into specific and/or overlapping expression patterns of SiWD40 genes. Homology modeling enabled three-dimensional structure prediction was performed to understand the molecular functions of WD40 proteins. Although, recent findings had shown the importance of WD40 domains in acting as hubs for cellular networks during many biological processes, it has invited a lesser research attention unlike other common domains. Being a most promiscuous interactors, WD40 domains are versatile in mediating critical cellular functions and hence this genome-wide study especially in the model crop foxtail millet would serve as a blue-print for functional characterization of WD40s in millets and bioenergy grass species. In addition, the present analyses would also assist the research community in choosing the candidate WD40s for comprehensive studies towards crop improvement of millets and biofuel grasses.
Effective improvement in sorghum crop development necessitates a genomics-based approach to identify functional genes and QTLs. Sequenced in 2009, a comprehensive annotation of the sorghum genome and the development of functional genomics resources is key to enable the discovery and deployment of regulatory and metabolic genes and gene networks for crop improvement. This study utilizes the first commercially available whole-transcriptome sorghum microarray (Sorgh-WTa520972F) to identify tissue and genotype-specific expression patterns for all identified Sorghum bicolor exons and UTRs. The genechip contains 1,026,373 probes covering 149,182 exons (27,577 genes) across the Sorghum bicolor nuclear, chloroplast, and mitochondrial genomes. Specific probesets were also included for putative non-coding RNAs that may play a role in gene regulation (e.g., microRNAs), and confirmed functional small RNAs in related species (maize and sugarcane) were also included in our array design. We generated expression data for 78 samples with a combination of four different tissue types (shoot, root, leaf and stem), two dissected stem tissues (pith and rind) and six diverse genotypes, which included 6 public sorghum lines (R159, Atlas, Fremont, PI152611, AR2400 and PI455230) representing grain, sweet, forage, and high biomass ideotypes. Here we present a summary of the microarray dataset, including analysis of tissue-specific gene expression profiles and associated expression profiles of relevant metabolic pathways. With an aim to enable identification and functional characterization of genes in sorghum, this expression atlas presents a new and valuable resource to the research community.
Among the effects of impending climate change, drought will have a profound impact on crop productivity in the future. Response to drought stress has been studied widely, and the model plant Arabidopsis has guided the studies on crop plants with genome sequence information viz., rice, wheat, maize and sorghum. Since the value of functions of genes, dynamics of pathways and interaction of networks for drought tolerance in plants can only be judged by evidence from field performance, this mini-review provides a research update focussing on the current developments on the response to drought in crop plants. Studies in Arabidopsis provide the basis for interpreting the available information in a systems biology perspective. In particular, the elucidation of the mechanism of drought stress response in crops is considered from evidence-based outputs emerging from recent omic studies in crops.
RNA silencing is a process triggered by 21-24 small RNAs to repress gene expression. Many organisms including plants use RNA silencing to regulate development and physiology, and to maintain genome stability. Plants possess two classes of small RNAs: microRNAs (miRNAs) and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs). The frameworks of miRNA and siRNA pathways have been established in the model plant, Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis). Here we report the identification of putative genes that are required for the generation and function of miRNAs and siRNAs in soybean and sorghum, based on knowledge obtained from Arabidopsis. The gene families, including DCL, HEN1, SE, HYL1, HST, RDR, NRPD1, NRPD2/NRPE2, NRPE1, and AGO, were analyzed for gene structures, phylogenetic relationships, and protein motifs. The gene expression was validated using RNA-seq, expressed sequence tags (EST), and reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR). The identification of these components could provide not only insight into RNA silencing mechanism in soybean and sorghum but also basis for further investigation. All data are available at http://sysbio.unl.edu/.
The high frequency of alternative splicing among the serine/arginine-rich (SR) family of proteins in plants has been linked to important roles in gene regulation during development and in response to environmental stress. In this article, we have searched and manually annotated all the SR proteins in the genomes of maize and sorghum. The experimental validation of gene structure by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed, with few exceptions, that SR genes produced multiple isoforms of transcripts by alternative splicing. Despite sharing high structural similarity and conserved positions of the introns, the profile of alternative splicing diverged significantly between maize and sorghum for the vast majority of SR genes. These include many transcript isoforms discovered by RT-PCR and not represented in extant expressed sequence tag (EST) collection. However, we report the occurrence of various maize and sorghum SR mRNA isoforms that display evolutionary conservation of splicing events with their homologous SR genes in Arabidopsis and moss. Our data also indicate an important role of both 5' and 3' untranslated regions in the regulation of SR gene expression. These observations have potentially important implications for the processes of evolution and adaptation of plants to land.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of short non-coding, endogenous RNAs that play key roles in many biological processes in both animals and plants. Although many miRNAs have been identified in a large number of organisms, the miRNAs in foxtail millet (Setaria italica) have, until now, been poorly understood. In this study, two replicate small RNA libraries from foxtail millet shoots were sequenced, and 40 million reads representing over 10 million unique sequences were generated. We identified 43 known miRNAs, 172 novel miRNAs and 2 mirtron precursor candidates in foxtail millet. Some miRNA*s of the known and novel miRNAs were detected as well. Further, eight novel miRNAs were validated by stem-loop RT-PCR. Potential targets of the foxtail millet miRNAs were predicted based on our strict criteria. Of the predicted target genes, 79% (351) had functional annotations in InterPro and GO analyses, indicating the targets of the miRNAs were involved in a wide range of regulatory functions and some specific biological processes. A total of 69 pairs of syntenic miRNA precursors that were conserved between foxtail millet and sorghum were found. Additionally, stem-loop RT-PCR was conducted to confirm the tissue-specific expression of some miRNAs in the four tissues identified by deep-sequencing. We predicted, for the first time, 215 miRNAs and 447 miRNA targets in foxtail millet at a genome-wide level. The precursors, expression levels, miRNA* sequences, target functions, conservation, and evolution of miRNAs we identified were investigated. Some of the novel foxtail millet miRNAs and miRNA targets were validated experimentally.
In halophytic plants, the high-affinity potassium transporter HKT gene family can selectively uptake K⁺ in the presence of toxic concentrations of Na⁺. This has so far not been well examined in glycophytic crops. Here, we report the characterization of SbHKT1;4, a member of the HKT gene family from Sorghum bicolor. Upon Na⁺ stress, SbHKT1;4 expression was more strongly upregulated in salt-tolerant sorghum accession, correlating with a better balanced Na⁺ /K⁺ ratio and enhanced plant growth. Heterogeneous expression analyses in mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Arabidopsis thaliana indicated that overexpressing SbHKT1;4 resulted in hypersensitivity to Na⁺ stress, and such hypersensitivity could be alleviated with the supply of elevated levels of K⁺, implicating that SbHKT1;4 may mediate K⁺ uptake in the presence of excessive Na⁺. Further electrophysiological evidence demonstrated that SbHKT1;4 could transport Na⁺ and K⁺ when expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. The relevance of the finding that SbHKT1;4 functions to maintain optimal Na⁺ /K⁺ balance under Na⁺ stress to the breeding of salt-tolerant glycophytic crops is discussed.
The Miscanthus genus of perennial C4 grasses contains promising biofuel crops for temperate climates. However, few genomic resources exist for Miscanthus, which limits understanding of its interesting biology and future genetic improvement. A comprehensive catalog of expressed sequences were generated from a variety of Miscanthus species and tissue types, with an emphasis on characterizing gene expression changes in spring compared to fall rhizomes. Illumina short read sequencing technology was used to produce transcriptome sequences from different tissues and organs during distinct developmental stages for multiple Miscanthus species, including Miscanthus sinensis, Miscanthus sacchariflorus, and their interspecific hybrid Miscanthus × giganteus. More than fifty billion base-pairs of Miscanthus transcript sequence were produced. Overall, 26,230 Sorghum gene models (i.e., ~ 96% of predicted Sorghum genes) had at least five Miscanthus reads mapped to them, suggesting that a large portion of the Miscanthus transcriptome is represented in this dataset. The Miscanthus × giganteus data was used to identify genes preferentially expressed in a single tissue, such as the spring rhizome, using Sorghum bicolor as a reference. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to verify examples of preferential expression predicted via RNA-Seq. Contiguous consensus transcript sequences were assembled for each species and annotated using InterProScan. Sequences from the assembled transcriptome were used to amplify genomic segments from a doubled haploid Miscanthus sinensis and from Miscanthus × giganteus to further disentangle the allelic and paralogous variations in genes. This large expressed sequence tag collection creates a valuable resource for the study of Miscanthus biology by providing detailed gene sequence information and tissue preferred expression patterns. We have successfully generated a database of transcriptome assemblies and demonstrated its use in the study of genes of interest. Analysis of gene expression profiles revealed biological pathways that exhibit altered regulation in spring compared to fall rhizomes, which are consistent with their different physiological functions. The expression profiles of the subterranean rhizome provides a better understanding of the biological activities of the underground stem structures that are essentials for perenniality and the storage or remobilization of carbon and nutrient resources.
Whole genome duplications (WGDs) occurred in the distant evolutionary history of many lineages and are particularly frequent in the flowering plant lineages. Following paleopolyploidization in plants, most duplicated genes are deleted by intrachromosomal recombination, a process referred to as fractionation. In the examples studied so far, genes are disproportionately lost from one of the parental subgenomes (biased fractionation) and the subgenome having lost the lowest number of genes is more expressed (genome dominance). In the present study, we analyzed the pattern of gene deletion and gene expression following the most recent WGD in banana (alpha event) and extended our analyses to seven other sequenced plant genomes: poplar, soybean, medicago, arabidopsis, sorghum, brassica, and maize. We propose a new class of ancient WGD, with Musa (alpha), poplar, and soybean as members, where genes are both deleted and expressed to an equal extent (unbiased fractionation and genome equivalence). We suggest that WGDs with genome dominance and biased fractionation (Class I) may result from ancient allotetraploidies, while WGDs without genome dominance or biased fractionation (Class II) may result from ancient autotetraploidies.
Resveratrol (3,4',5-trans-trihydroxystilbene) is a polyphenolic phytoalexin that belongs to a family of naturally occurring stilbenes. It has been reported that the health-promoting activities of certain methylated resveratrol derivatives are more effective than those of unmodified resveratrol. In this study, we isolated two candidate genes with resveratrol O-methyltransferase (ROMT) activity from grape (Vitis riparia) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). To assess their ROMT activities in vivo, we synthesized VrROMT and SbROMT3 following codon-optimization and expressed the VrROMTsyn and SbROMT3syn genes using a dual expression vector system. Furthermore, we attempted to produce pterostilbene from resveratrol as a substrate by the expression of two putative ROMT proteins in Escherichia coli. Unexpectedly, expression of the SbROMT3syn gene in E. coli led to the production of mono-methylated stilbene (3,4'-dihydroxy-5-methoxy-trans-stilbene, pinostilbene) from resveratrol compounds. However, a very small amount of di-methylated stilbene (3,5-dimethoxy-4'-hydroxy-trans-stilbene, pterostilbene) was also detected. Consistently, we found that in vitro methylation assays of resveratrol by recombinant SbROMT3syn produced pinostilbene as the major product besides a very small amount of pterostilbene. By contrast, very small amounts of methylated resveratrol derivatives were detected in E. coli expressing the VrROMTsyn protein. This suggests that the SbROMT3syn is more useful in the production of pinostilbene compounds than pterostilbene from resveratrol in E. coli.
Domain of unknown function (DUF) proteins represent a number of gene families that encode functionally uncharacterized proteins in eukaryotes. For example, DUF1618 family members in plants possess a 56-199-amino acid conserved domain and this family has not been described previously. Here, we report the characterization of 121 DUF1618 genes identified in the rice genome. Based on phylogenetic analysis, the rice DUF1618 family was divided into two major groups, each group consisting of two clades. Most DUF1618 genes with close phylogenetic relationships are located in gene clusters on the chromosomes, indicating that gene duplications increased the number of DUF1618 genes. A search for DUF1618 genes in genomic and/or expressed sequence tag databases for 35 other plant species showed that DUF1618 genes are only present in several monocot plants, suggesting that DUF1618 is a new gene family that originated after the dicot-monocot divergence. Based on public microarray databases, most rice DUF1618 genes are expressed at relatively low levels. Further experimental analysis showed that the transcriptional levels of some DUF1618 genes varied in different cultivars, and some responded to stress and hormone conditions, suggesting their important roles for development and fitness in rice (Oryza sativa L.).
Transcription initiation, essential to gene expression regulation, involves recruitment of basal transcription factors to the core promoter elements (CPEs). The distribution of currently known CPEs across plant genomes is largely unknown. This is the first large scale genome-wide report on the computational prediction of CPEs across eight plant genomes to help better understand the transcription initiation complex assembly. The distribution of thirteen known CPEs across four monocots (Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa ssp. japonica, Sorghum bicolor, Zea mays) and four dicots (Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus trichocarpa, Vitis vinifera, Glycine max) reveals the structural organization of the core promoter in relation to the TATA-box as well as with respect to other CPEs. The distribution of known CPE motifs with respect to transcription start site (TSS) exhibited positional conservation within monocots and dicots with slight differences across all eight genomes. Further, a more refined subset of annotated genes based on orthologs of the model monocot (O. sativa ssp. japonica) and dicot (A. thaliana) genomes supported the positional distribution of these thirteen known CPEs. DNA free energy profiles provided evidence that the structural properties of promoter regions are distinctly different from that of the non-regulatory genome sequence. It also showed that monocot core promoters have lower DNA free energy than dicot core promoters. The comparison of monocot and dicot promoter sequences highlights both the similarities and differences in the core promoter architecture irrespective of the species-specific nucleotide bias. This study will be useful for future work related to genome annotation projects and can inspire research efforts aimed to better understand regulatory mechanisms of transcription.
The precise adjustment of the timing of dormancy release according to final grain usage is still a challenge for many cereal crops. Grain sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] shows wide intraspecific variability in dormancy level and susceptibility to pre-harvest sprouting (PHS). Both embryo sensitivity to abscisic acid (ABA) and gibberellin (GA) metabolism play an important role in the expression of dormancy of the developing sorghum grain. In previous works, it was shown that, simultaneously with a greater embryo sensitivity to ABA and higher expression of SbABA-INSENSITIVE 4 (SbABI4) and SbABA-INSENSITIVE 5 (SbABI5), dormant grains accumulate less active GA4 due to a more active GA catabolism. In this work, it is demonstrated that the ABA signalling components SbABI4 and SbABI5 interact in vitro with a fragment of the SbGA 2-OXIDASE 3 (SbGA2ox3) promoter containing an ABA-responsive complex (ABRC). Both transcription factors were able to bind the promoter, although not simultaneously, suggesting that they might compete for the same cis-acting regulatory sequences. A biological role for these interactions in the expression of dormancy of sorghum grains is proposed: either SbABI4 and/or SbABI5 activate transcription of the SbGA2ox3 gene in vivo and promote SbGA2ox3 protein accumulation; this would result in active degradation of GA4, thus preventing germination of dormant grains. A comparative analysis of the 5'-regulatory region of GA2oxs from both monocots and dicots is also presented; conservation of the ABRC in closely related GA2oxs from Brachypodium distachyon and rice suggest that these species might share the same regulatory mechanism as proposed for grain sorghum.
Transcriptomic data for Sorghum propinquum, the wild-type sorghum, are limited in public databases. S. propinquum has a subterranean rhizome and transcriptome data will help in understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying rhizome formation. We sequenced the transcriptome of S. propinquum aerial-shoot and rhizome using an Illumina platform. More than 70 % of the genes in the S. propinquum genome were expressed in aerial-shoot and rhizome. The expression patterns of 1963 and 599 genes, including transcription factors, were specific or enriched in aerial-shoot and rhizome respectively, indicating their possible roles in physiological processes in these tissues. Comparative analysis revealed several cis-elements, ACGT box, GCCAC, GATC and TGACG box, which showed significantly higher abundance in aerial-shoot-specific genes. In rhizome-specific genes MYB and ROOTMOTIFTAPOX1 motifs, and 10 promoter and cytokinin-responsive elements were highly enriched. Of the S. propinquum genes, 27.9 % were identified as alternatively spliced and about 60 % of the alternative splicing (AS) events were tissue-specific, suggesting that AS played a crucial role in determining tissue-specific cellular function. The transcriptome data, especially the co-localized rhizome-enriched expressed transcripts that mapped to the publicly available rhizome-related quantitative trait loci, will contribute to gene discovery in S. propinquum and to functional studies of the sorghum genome. Deep transcriptome sequencing revealed a clear difference in the expression patterns of genes between aerial-shoot and rhizome in S. propinquum. This data set provides essential information for future studies into the molecular genetic mechanisms involved in rhizome formation.
The worldwide production of maize (Zea mays L.) is frequently impacted by water scarcity and as a result, increased drought tolerance is a priority target in maize breeding programs. While DREB transcription factors have been demonstrated to play a central role in desiccation tolerance, whether or not natural sequence variations in these genes are associated with the phenotypic variability of this trait is largely unknown. In the present study, eighteen ZmDREB genes present in the maize B73 genome were cloned and systematically analyzed to determine their phylogenetic relationship, synteny with rice, maize and sorghum genomes; pattern of drought-responsive gene expression, and protein transactivation activity. Importantly, the association between the nucleic acid variation of each ZmDREB gene with drought tolerance was evaluated using a diverse population of maize consisting of 368 varieties from tropical and temperate regions. A significant association between the genetic variation of ZmDREB2.7 and drought tolerance at seedling stage was identified. Further analysis found that the DNA polymorphisms in the promoter region of ZmDREB2.7, but not the protein coding region itself, was associated with different levels of drought tolerance among maize varieties, likely due to distinct patterns of gene expression in response to drought stress. In vitro, protein-DNA binding assay demonstrated that ZmDREB2.7 protein could specifically interact with the target DNA sequences. The transgenic Arabidopsis overexpressing ZmDREB2.7 displayed enhanced tolerance to drought stress. Moreover, a favorable allele of ZmDREB2.7, identified in the drought-tolerant maize varieties, was effective in imparting plant tolerance to drought stress. Based upon these findings, we conclude that natural variation in the promoter of ZmDREB2.7 contributes to maize drought tolerance, and that the gene and its favorable allele may be an important genetic resource for the genetic improvement of drought tolerance in maize.
Sorghum is not only an important cereal crop but also a biofuel crop. The sorghum brown midrib mutant 6 (bmr6) has a reduced lignin content in the cell walls and vascular tissues, which could potentially be advantageous for cellulosic biofuel production. Meanwhile, both dry matter yield and plant height were decreased in the bmr6 mutant. To identify genes affected in the mutant, differential gene expression analysis was performed for bmr6 and the wild type. As a result, a total of 1,052 differentially expressed genes were detected between the two samples, of which 166 genes were downregulated and 886 genes were upregulated. Five hundred seventy-nine of the 1,052 differentially expressed genes could be assigned to 154 documented pathways. These pathways mainly included primary and secondary metabolism. Therefore, mutation of the bmr6 gene, which impaired the biosynthesis of lignin, ultimately affected the expression of these genes associated with the growth and development of sorghum. Except for the bmr6 gene, 11 key enzyme genes of monolignols biosynthesis were upregulated. Promoter analysis identified that these genes have common MYB sites. It revealed that a feedback mechanism existed in the pathway and a MYB1 transcription factor (Sb02g031190) could associate with the upregulation of these genes in sorghum. In this study, we investigated gene expressions at a global level in sorghum bmr6 mutant and provided valuable insights into the mechanisms of lignin biosynthesis.
Suppression of seed shattering was a key step during crop domestication that we have previously suggested to be convergent among independent cereal lineages. Positional, association, expression, and mutant complementation data all implicate a WRKY transcription factor, SpWRKY, in conferring shattering to a wild sorghum relative, Sorghum propinquum. We hypothesize that SpWRKY functions in a manner analogous to Medicago and Arabidopsis homologs that regulate cell wall biosynthesis genes, with low expression toward the end of floral development derepressing downstream cell wall biosynthesis genes to allow deposition of lignin that initiates the abscission zone in the seed-pedicel junction. The recent discovery of a YABBY locus that confers shattering within Sorghum bicolor and other cereals validated our prior hypothesis that some parallel domestication may have been convergent. Ironically, however, the shattering allele of SpWRKY appears to be recently evolved in S. propinquum and illustrates a case in which the genetic control of a trait in a wild relative fails to extrapolate even to closely related crops. Remarkably, the SpWRKY and YABBY loci lie only 300 kb apart and may have appeared to be a single genetic locus in some sorghum populations.
The type II CRISPR/Cas system from Streptococcus pyogenes and its simplified derivative, the Cas9/single guide RNA (sgRNA) system, have emerged as potent new tools for targeted gene knockout in bacteria, yeast, fruit fly, zebrafish and human cells. Here, we describe adaptations of these systems leading to successful expression of the Cas9/sgRNA system in two dicot plant species, Arabidopsis and tobacco, and two monocot crop species, rice and sorghum. Agrobacterium tumefaciens was used for delivery of genes encoding Cas9, sgRNA and a non-fuctional, mutant green fluorescence protein (GFP) to Arabidopsis and tobacco. The mutant GFP gene contained target sites in its 5' coding regions that were successfully cleaved by a CAS9/sgRNA complex that, along with error-prone DNA repair, resulted in creation of functional GFP genes. DNA sequencing confirmed Cas9/sgRNA-mediated mutagenesis at the target site. Rice protoplast cells transformed with Cas9/sgRNA constructs targeting the promoter region of the bacterial blight susceptibility genes, OsSWEET14 and OsSWEET11, were confirmed by DNA sequencing to contain mutated DNA sequences at the target sites. Successful demonstration of the Cas9/sgRNA system in model plant and crop species bodes well for its near-term use as a facile and powerful means of plant genetic engineering for scientific and agricultural applications.
Sequence analysis and genetic mapping revealed that a 1,444 bp deletion causes a premature stop codon in SbBADH2 of sorghum IS19912. The non-function of SbBADH2 is responsible for fragrance in sorghum IS19912. 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP) is a potent volatile compound causing fragrance in several plants and foods. Seeds of some varieties of rice, sorghum and soybean possess fragrance. The genes responsible for fragrance in rice and soybean are orthologs that correspond to betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (BADH2). Genotypes harboring fragrance in rice and soybean contain a premature stop codon in BADH2 which impairs the synthesis of full length functional BADH2 protein leading to the accumulation of 2AP. In this study, we reported an association between the BADH2 gene and fragrance in sorghum. An F2 population of 187 plants developed from a cross between KU630 (non-fragrant) and IS19912 (fragrant) was used. Leaves of F2 and F3 progenies were evaluated for fragrance by organoleptic test, while seeds of F2 plants were analyzed for 2AP. The tests consistently showed that the fragrance is controlled by a single recessive gene. Gene expression analysis of SbBADH1 and SbBADH2 in leaves of KU630 and IS19912 at various stages revealed that SbBADH1 and SbBADH2 were expressed in both accessions. Sequence comparison between KU630 and IS19912 revealed a continuous 1,444 bp deletion encompassing exon 12 to 15 of SbBADH2 in IS19912 which introduces a frameshift mutation and thus causes a premature stop codon. An indel marker was developed to detect polymorphism in SbBADH2. Bulk segregant and QTL analyses confirmed the association between SbBADH2 and fragrance.
Southwestern corn borer (SWCB, Diatraea grandiosella) and fall armyworm (FAW, Spodoptera frugiperda) are major pests of sorghum in the southern United States. Host plant resistance is a desirable means for reducing plant damage and yield losses from both insects. In this study, we evaluated 12 sorghum lines for whorl-stage resistance to leaf-feeding SWCB and FAW in greenhouse and laboratory bioassays. Differential plant responses were detected against the two insects. Among 12 lines tested, CM1821, Della and PI196583 were resistant to both insects, while BTx2752 was largely susceptible. Line R.09110 was resistant to SWCB, but susceptible to FAW, whereas Redbine-60 was susceptible to SWCB, but not to FAW. In addition, we quantified various chemical components in the plants and determined their association with insect resistance. Tannin and chlorophyll in leaves did not show any significant correlation with resistance to either insects, but contents of soluble protein in general were negatively correlated with resistance to both insects. Endogenous soluble sugar and dhurrin were only positively correlated with resistance to SWCB, but not with FAW resistance. To gain some molecular insight into resistance mechanism of sorghum to SWCB, we performed qPCR reactions for key genes encoding enzymes involved in dhurrin and jasmonic acid (JA) biosynthesis on selected resistant or susceptible lines. Although these genes were rapidly and strongly induced by insect feeding in all lines, the observed resistance is likely explained by higher constitutive dhurrin contents in some resistant lines and higher basal JA biosynthesis in others. Our results suggest that sorghum utilizes multiple strategies to defend itself against SWCB.
Both genome-wide transcriptomic surveys of the mRNA expression profiles and virus-induced gene silencing-based molecular studies of target gene during virus-plant interaction involve the precise estimation of the transcript abundance. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) is the most widely adopted technique for mRNA quantification. In order to obtain reliable quantification of transcripts, identification of the best reference genes forms the basis of the preliminary work. Nevertheless, the stability of internal controls in virus-infected monocots needs to be fully explored. In this work, the suitability of ten housekeeping genes (ACT, EF1α, FBOX, GAPDH, GTPB, PP2A, SAND, TUBβ, UBC18 and UK) for potential use as reference genes in qPCR were investigated in five different monocot plants (Brachypodium, barley, sorghum, wheat and maize) under infection with different viruses including Barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV), Brome mosaic virus (BMV), Rice black-streaked dwarf virus (RBSDV) and Sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV). By using three different algorithms, the most appropriate reference genes or their combinations were identified for different experimental sets and their effectiveness for the normalisation of expression studies were further validated by quantitative analysis of a well-studied PR-1 gene. These results facilitate the selection of desirable reference genes for more accurate gene expression studies in virus-infected monocots.
Aegilops sharonensis Eig (Sharon goatgrass) is a wild diploid relative of wheat within the Sitopsis section of Aegilops. This species represents an untapped reservoir of genetic diversity for traits of agronomic importance, especially as a source of novel disease resistance. To gain a foothold in this genetic resource, we sequenced the cDNA from leaf tissue of two geographically distinct Ae. sharonensis accessions (1644 and 2232) using the 454 Life Sciences platform. We compared the results of two different assembly programs using different parameter sets to generate 13 distinct assemblies in an attempt to maximize representation of the gene space in de novo transcriptome assembly. The most sensitive assembly (71,029 contigs; N50 674 nts) retrieved 18,684 unique best reciprocal BLAST hits (BRBH) against six previously characterised grass proteomes while the most specific assembly (30,609 contigs; N50 815 nts) retrieved 15,687 BRBH. We combined these two assemblies into a set of 62,243 non-redundant sequences and identified 139 belonging to plant disease resistance genes of the nucleotide binding leucine-rich repeat class. Based on the non-redundant sequences, we predicted 37,743 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), equivalent to one per 1,142 bp. We estimated the level of heterozygosity as 1.6% in accession 1644 and 30.1% in 2232. The Ae. sharonensis leaf transcriptome provides a rich source of sequence and SNPs for this wild wheat relative. These sequences can be used with existing monocot genome sequences and EST sequence collections (e.g. barley, Brachypodium, wheat, rice, maize and Sorghum) to assist with genetic and physical mapping and candidate gene identification in Ae. sharonensis. These resources provide an initial framework to further build on and characterise the genetic and genomic structure of Ae. sharonensis.
Commercial sugarcane (Saccharum hybrid) is a highly polyploid and aneuploid grass that stores large amounts of sucrose in its stem. We have measured circadian rhythms of sense and antisense transcription in a commercial cultivar (RB855453) using a custom oligoarray with 14,521 probes that hybridize to sense transcripts (SS) and 7,380 probes that hybridize to antisense transcripts (AS).We estimated that 32% of SS probes and 22% AS probes were rhythmic. This is a higher proportion of rhythmic probes than the usually found in similar experiments in other plant species. Orthologs and inparalogs of Arabidopsis thaliana, sugarcane, rice, maize and sorghum were grouped in ortholog clusters. When ortholog clusters were used to compare probes among different datasets, sugarcane also showed a higher proportion of rhythmic elements than the other species. Thus, it is possible that a higher proportion of transcripts are regulated by the sugarcane circadian clock. Thirty-six percent of the identified AS/SS pairs had significant correlated time courses and 64% had uncorrelated expression patterns. The clustering of transcripts with similar function, the anticipation of daily environmental changes and the temporal compartmentation of metabolic processes were some properties identified in the circadian sugarcane transcriptome. During the day, there was a dominance of transcripts associated with photosynthesis and carbohydrate metabolism, including sucrose and starch synthesis. During the night, there was dominance of transcripts associated with genetic processing, such as histone regulation and RNA polymerase, ribosome and protein synthesis. Finally, the circadian clock also regulated hormone signalling pathways: a large proportion of auxin and ABA signalling components were regulated by the circadian clock in an unusual biphasic distribution.
Waterlogging causes extensive damage to maize crops in tropical and subtropical regions. The identification of tolerance genes and their interactions at the molecular level will be helpful to engineer tolerant genotypes. A whole-genome transcriptome assay revealed the specific role of genes in response to waterlogging stress in susceptible and tolerant genotypes. Genes involved in the synthesis of ethylene and auxin, cell wall metabolism, activation of G-proteins and formation of aerenchyma and adventitious roots, were upregulated in the tolerant genotype. Many transcription factors, particularly ERFs, MYB, HSPs, MAPK, and LOB-domain protein were involved in regulation of these traits. Genes responsible for scavenging of ROS generated under stress were expressed along with those involved in carbohydrate metabolism. The physical locations of 21 genes expressed in the tolerant genotype were found to correspond with the marker intervals of known QTLs responsible for development of adaptive traits. Among the candidate genes, most showed synteny with genes of sorghum and foxtail millet. Co-expression analysis of 528 microarray samples including 16 samples from the present study generated seven functional modules each in the two genotypes, with differing characteristics. In the tolerant genotype, stress genes were co-expressed along with peroxidase and fermentation pathway genes.
Long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons are the major class I mobile elements in plants. They play crucial roles in gene expansion, diversification and evolution. However, their captured genes are yet to be genome-widely identified and characterized in most of plants although many genomes have been completely sequenced. In this study, we have identified 7,043 and 23,915 full-length LTR retrotransposons in the rice and sorghum genomes, respectively. High percentages of rice full-length LTR retrotransposons were distributed near centromeric region in each of the chromosomes. In contrast, sorghum full-length LTR retrotransposons were not enriched in centromere regions. This dissimilarity could be due to the discrepant retrotransposition during and after divergence from their common ancestor thus might be contributing to species divergence. A total of 672 and 1,343 genes have been captured by these elements in rice and sorghum, respectively. Gene Ontology (GO) and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) showed that no over-represented GO term was identified in LTR captured rice genes. For LTR captured sorghum genes, GO terms with functions in DNA/RNA metabolism and chromatin organization were over-represented. Only 36% of LTR captured rice genes were expressed and expression divergence was estimated as 11.9%. Higher percentage of LTR captured rice genes have evolved into pseudogenes under neutral selection. On the contrary, higher percentage of LTR captured sorghum genes were under purifying selection and 72.4% of them were expressed. Thus, higher percentage of LTR captured sorghum genes was functional. Small RNA analysis suggested that some of LTR captured genes in rice and sorghum might have been involved in negative regulation. On the other hand, positive selection has been observed in both rice and sorghum LTR captured genes and some of them were still expressed and functional. The data suggest that some of these LTR captured genes might have evolved into new gene functions.
With its small, diploid and completely sequenced genome, sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) is highly amenable to genomics-based breeding approaches. Here, we describe the development and testing of a robust single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array platform that enables polymorphism screening for genome-wide and trait-linked polymorphisms in genetically diverse S. bicolor populations. Whole-genome sequences with 6× to 12× coverage from five genetically diverse S. bicolor genotypes, including three sweet sorghums and two grain sorghums, were aligned to the sorghum reference genome. From over 1 million high-quality SNPs, we selected 2124 Infinium Type II SNPs that were informative in all six source genomes, gave an optimal Assay Design Tool (ADT) score, had allele frequencies of 50% in the six genotypes and were evenly spaced throughout the S. bicolor genome. Furthermore, by phenotype-based pool sequencing, we selected an additional 876 SNPs with a phenotypic association to early-stage chilling tolerance, a key trait for European sorghum breeding. The 3000 attempted bead types were used to populate half of a dual-species Illumina iSelect SNP array. The array was tested using 564 Sorghum spp. genotypes, including offspring from four unrelated recombinant inbred line (RIL) and F2 populations and a genetic diversity collection. A high call rate of over 80% enabled validation of 2620 robust and polymorphic sorghum SNPs, underlining the efficiency of the array development scheme for whole-genome SNP selection and screening, with diverse applications including genetic mapping, genome-wide association studies and genomic selection.
Zinc (Zn) is an essential micronutrient in plants. The activity of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (CSD) and carbonic anhydrase (CA) correlate with differences in Zn efficiency in plants; therefore, it is reasonable to hypothesize the existence of a Zn economy model that saves Zn for these essential Zn proteins during Zn deficiency. However, up to this point, direct evidence for the idea that CSD and/or CA might be priorities for Zn delivery has been lacking. Here, we investigated the spatial-temporal effects of acute Zn depletion and resupply by integrating physiological studies and molecular analyses using hydroponically grown Sorghum. The elevated expression of miR398 repressed CSD expression in roots, whereas the reduced expression of miR528 resulted in a relatively stable level of CSD expression in Sorghum leaves under Zn depletion. Spatial-temporal analysis after Zn resupply to previously depleted plants revealed that the expression and activity of CA were the first to recover after Zn addition, whereas the recovery of the activities of CSD and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) was delayed, suggesting that CA receives priority in Zn delivery over CSD and ADH. Our results also indicate that microRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators of the response of Zn deficiency in plants.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a signaling molecule that mediates many plant responses to biotic and abiotic stresses, including salt stress. Interestingly, salinity increases NO production selectively in mesophyll cells of sorghum leaves, where photosynthetic C₄ phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (C₄ PEPCase) is located. PEPCase is regulated by a phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase-kinase (PEPCase-k), which levels are greatly enhanced by salinity in sorghum. This work investigated whether NO is involved in this effect. NO donors (SNP, SNAP), the inhibitor of NO synthesis NNA, and the NO scavenger cPTIO were used for long- and short-term treatments. Long-term treatments had multifaceted consequences on both PPCK gene expression and PEPCase-k activity, and they also decreased photosynthetic gas-exchange parameters and plant growth. Nonetheless, it could be observed that SNP increased PEPCase-k activity, resembling salinity effect. Short-term treatments with NO donors, which did not change photosynthetic gas-exchange parameters and PPCK gene expression, increased PEPCase-k activity both in illuminated leaves and in leaves kept at dark. At least in part, these effects were independent on protein synthesis. PEPCase-k activity was not decreased by short-term treatment with cycloheximide in NaCl-treated plants; on the contrary, it was decreased by cPTIO. In summary, NO donors mimicked salt effect on PEPCase-k activity, and scavenging of NO abolished it. Collectively, these results indicate that NO is involved in the complex control of PEPCase-k activity, and it may mediate some of the plant responses to salinity.
Lignin is a significant barrier in the conversion of plant biomass to bioethanol. Cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) and caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT) catalyze key steps in the pathway of lignin monomer biosynthesis. Brown midrib mutants in Zea mays and Sorghum bicolor with impaired CAD or COMT activity have attracted considerable agronomic interest for their altered lignin composition and improved digestibility. Here, we identified and functionally characterized candidate genes encoding CAD and COMT enzymes in the grass model species Brachypodium distachyon with the aim of improving crops for efficient biofuel production. We developed transgenic plants overexpressing artificial microRNA designed to silence BdCAD1 or BdCOMT4. Both transgenes caused altered flowering time and increased stem count and weight. Downregulation of BdCAD1 caused a leaf brown midrib phenotype, the first time this phenotype has been observed in a C3 plant. While acetyl bromide soluble lignin measurements were equivalent in BdCAD1 downregulated and control plants, histochemical staining and thioacidolysis indicated a decrease in lignin syringyl units and reduced syringyl/guaiacyl ratio in the transgenic plants. BdCOMT4 downregulated plants exhibited a reduction in total lignin content and decreased Maule staining of syringyl units in stem. Ethanol yield by microbial fermentation was enhanced in amiR-cad1-8 plants. These results have elucidated two key genes in the lignin biosynthetic pathway in B. distachyon that, when perturbed, may result in greater stem biomass yield and bioconversion efficiency.
A sorghum pathogen-inducible gene predicted to encode a simple extracellular leucine-rich repeat (LRR) protein SbLRR2 was previously isolated. LRR was the only domain identified in SbLRR2 and its homologous sequences. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that they are distinct from the simple extracellular LRR proteins reported previously. Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression in tobacco leaf cells demonstrated that the SbLRR2-EYFP (enhanced yellow fluorescent protein) fusion protein was targeted to the extracellular space. Transgenic analysis of SbLRR2 revealed its role in enhancing lead [Pb(II)] tolerance in Arabidopsis. Consequently, SbLRR2-overexpressing lines were found to show alleviated Pb(II)-induced root inhibition, lower levels of Pb(II) accumulation and enhanced transcription of AtPDR12 which encodes a plasma membrane ATP-bind cassette (ABC)-type transporter formerly shown to contribute to Pb(II) detoxification. However, all the Pb(II) tolerance responses were abolished when SbLRR2 was overexpressed in an atpdr12 T-DNA insertion line. The extracellular localization of SbLRR2 was also shown to be essential for the Pb(II) phenotypes and AtPDR12 up-regulation. Taken together, SbLRR2 appears to mediate Pb(II) tolerance through the elevation of AtPDR12 expression in transgenic Arabidopsis, thus activating a glutathione-independent mechanism for detoxification. Further investigations revealed the Pb(II)-induced transcriptional activation of SbLRR2 and several highly conserved AtPDR12 homologs in sorghum seedlings, suggesting the possibility of a common molecular mechanism for Pb(II) tolerance in diverse plant species.
Sorghum is a principal cereal food in a number of parts of the world and is critical in folk medicine in Asia and Africa. However, its effects on bone are unknown. Growth hormone (GH) is a regulator of bone growth and bone metabolism. GH activates several signaling pathways, including the Janus kinase (Jak)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathways, thereby regulating expression of genes, including insulin‑like growth factor (IGF)‑1. Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) induce the differentiation of cells of the osteoblastic lineage, increasing the pool of IGF‑1 target cells, the mature osteoblasts. In the present study, the effects of Hwanggeumchal sorghum extracts (HSE) on GH signaling via the Jak/STAT pathway in osteoblasts were investigated. HSE was not observed to be toxic to osteoblastic cells and increased the expression of BMP7 and GH‑related proteins, including STAT5B, p‑STAT5B, IGF‑1 receptor (IGF-1R), growth receptor hormone (GHR) and Jak2 in MC3T3‑E1 cells. In addition, HSE increased BMP7 and GHR mRNA expression in MC3T3‑E1 cells. The expression of HSE‑induced BMP7 and GHR was inhibited by AG490, a Jak2 kinase inhibitor. The observations indicate that HSE‑induced signaling is similar to GH signaling via the GHR‑Jak2 signaling axis. Using small interference RNA (siRNA) analysis, STAT5B was found to play an essential role in HSE‑induced BMP7 and GH signaling in MC3T3‑E1 cells. Results of the current study indicate that HSE promotes bone growth through activation of STAT5B.
Aluminum (Al) toxicity is one of the major limiting factors for crop production on acid soils that comprise significant portions of the world's lands. Aluminum resistance in the cereal crop Sorghum bicolor is mainly achieved by Al-activated root apical citrate exudation, which is mediated by the plasma membrane localized citrate efflux transporter encoded by SbMATE. Here we precisely localize tissue- and cell-specific Al toxicity responses as well as SbMATE gene and protein expression in root tips of an Al-resistant near-isogenic line (NIL). We found that Al induced the greatest cell damage and generation of reactive oxygen species specifically in the root distal transition zone (DTZ), a region 1-3 mm behind the root tip where transition from cell division to cell elongation occurs. These findings indicate that the root DTZ is the primary region of root Al stress. Furthermore, Al-induced SbMATE gene and protein expression were specifically localized to the epidermal and outer cortical cell layers of the DTZ in the Al-resistant NIL, and the process was precisely coincident with the time course of Al induction of SbMATE expression and the onset of the recovery of roots from Al-induced damage. These findings show that SbMATE gene and protein expression are induced when and where the root cells experience the greatest Al stress. Hence, Al-resistant sorghum plants have evolved an effective strategy to precisely localize root citrate exudation to the specific site of greatest Al-induced root damage, which minimizes plant carbon loss while maximizing protection of the root cells most susceptible to Al damage.
Drought is a major abiotic stress that affects plant growth, production, and survival. Plants have evolved sophisticated and highly complex reactions to drought stress, including large-scale transcriptome reconfiguration. Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) is a member of the Poaceae family. Because of its outstanding tolerance to drought stress foxtail millet has the potential to become a new model organism. To enrich our knowledge of the processes that contribute to drought resistance, we have used a deep sequencing approach to generate a genome-wide transcriptome of foxtail millet after exposure to simulated drought stress. A large number of differentially expressed genes were characterized; in particular, we examined the roles of small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) in response to a water-deficit condition. These RNAs have remained largely unexplored in previous studies of stress-induced transcriptomes. We found that the reduced levels of 24-nt siRNA flanking genes were associated, for the most part, with proximal up-regulated genes, indicating a potential effect of 24-nt siRNAs on drought-regulated gene expression. Several lncRNAs that responded to the simulated drought stress were also identified, and we found that one of them shared sequence conservation and colinearity with its counterpart in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). Our findings provide new insights into drought-induced changes in the foxtail millet transcriptome.
Gene promoters perceive numerous signals and integrate this information into a single response, the transcriptional activity of a gene. It was speculated that covalent modification of histones on the promoters might have an important function in storage and integration of signals. Using the genes for the core proteins of C4 metabolism in maize as a model, we associated the perception of specific signals with the establishment of individual histone modifications. Core elements of the histone code defined in these studies are conserved on all C4 genes and on other maize genes that respond to similar stimuli. Moreover, the code is used in independent C4 lineages. However, our data also advise caution because interpretation of histone modifications might differ dependent on the promoter position of the modification. The model provided here constitutes a starting point for genome-wide decoding of stimulus-modification pairs in epigenetic gene regulation.
The Saccharinae, especially sugarcane, Miscanthus and sorghum, present remarkable characteristics for bioenergy production. Biotechnology of these plants will be important for a sustainable feedstock supply. Herein, we review knowledge useful for their improvement and synergies gained by their parallel study.
Sorghum is a tropical C4 cereal that recently adapted to temperate latitudes and mechanized grain harvest through selection for dwarfism and photoperiod-insensitivity. Quantitative trait loci for these traits have been introgressed from a dwarf temperate donor into hundreds of diverse sorghum landraces to yield the Sorghum Conversion lines. Here, we report the first comprehensive genomic analysis of the molecular changes underlying this adaptation. We apply genotyping-by-sequencing to 1,160 Sorghum Conversion lines and their exotic progenitors, and map donor introgressions in each Sorghum Conversion line. Many Sorghum Conversion lines carry unexpected haplotypes not found in either presumed parent. Genome-wide mapping of introgression frequencies reveals three genomic regions necessary for temperate adaptation across all Sorghum Conversion lines, containing the Dw1, Dw2, and Dw3 loci on chromosomes 9, 6, and 7 respectively. Association mapping of plant height and flowering time in Sorghum Conversion lines detects significant associations in the Dw1 but not the Dw2 or Dw3 regions. Subpopulation-specific introgression mapping suggests that chromosome 6 contains at least four loci required for temperate adaptation in different sorghum genetic backgrounds. The Dw1 region fractionates into separate quantitative trait loci for plant height and flowering time. Generating Sorghum Conversion lines has been accompanied by substantial unintended gene flow. Sorghum adaptation to temperate-zone grain production involves a small number of genomic regions, each containing multiple linked loci for plant height and flowering time. Further characterization of these loci will accelerate the adaptation of sorghum and related grasses to new production systems for food and fuel.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small endogenous genes regulators which regulate different processes underlying plant adaptation to abiotic stresses. To gain a deep understanding of role of miRNAs in plants, in the present study, we computationally analyzed different sorghum miRNAs in the drought-induced gene sequences. Homologous miRNA were identified using different plant miRNA databases. Using previously established genes databases, various targets of sorghum miRNAs were predicted viz: transcription factors, chaperonins, metabolic enzymes and other gene targets necessary for proper plant development. Analysis of cis-elements provides molecular evidence for the possible involvement of miRNAs in the process of abiotic stress tolerance in sorghum. Based on these results, it was suggested that miRNAs may play an important role in water stress tolerance.
C4 photosynthesis is a complex trait that has a high degree of natural variation, involving anatomical and biochemical changes relative to the ancestral C3 state. It has evolved at least 66 times across a variety of lineages and the evolutionary route from C3 to C4 is likely conserved but not necessarily genetically identical. As such, a variety of C4 species are needed to identify what is fundamental to the C4 evolutionary process in a global context. In order to identify the genetic components of C4 form and function, a number of species are used as genetic models. These include Zea mays (maize), Sorghum bicolor (sorghum), Setaria viridis (Setaria), Flaveria bidentis, and Cleome gynandra. Each of these species has different benefits and challenges associated with its use as a model organism. Here, we propose that RNA profiling of a large sampling of C4, C3-C4, and C3 species, from as many lineages as possible, will allow identification of candidate genes necessary and sufficient to confer C4 anatomy and/or biochemistry. Furthermore, C4 model species will play a critical role in the functional characterization of these candidate genes and identification of their regulatory elements, by providing a platform for transformation and through the use of gene expression profiles in mesophyll and bundle sheath cells and along the leaf developmental gradient. Efforts should be made to sequence the genomes of F. bidentis and C. gynandra and to develop congeneric C3 species as genetic models for comparative studies. In combination, such resources would facilitate discovery of common and unique C4 regulatory mechanisms across genera.
Glutathione reductases (GRs) are important components of the antioxidant machinery that plants use to respond against abiotic stresses. In rice, one cytosolic and two chloroplastic GR isoforms have been identified. In this work, we describe the cloning and characterization of the full-length cDNA encoding OsGR3, a chloroplast-localized GR that up to now was considered as a non-functional enzyme because of assumed lack of N-terminal conserved domains. The expression of OsGR3 in E. coli validated that it can be translated as a protein with GR activity. OsGR3 shows 76 and 53 % identity with OsGR1 (chloroplastic) and OsGR2 (cytosolic), respectively. Phylogenetic analysis revealed 2 chloroplastic GRs in Poaceae species, including rice, sorghum and brachypodium, but only one chloroplastic GR in dicots. A plastid transit peptide is located at the N terminus of OsGR3, and genetic transformation of rice with a GR3-GFP fusion construct further confirmed its localization in chloroplasts. Furthermore, OsGR1 and OsGR3 are also targeted to mitochondria, which suggest a combined antioxidant mechanism in both chloroplasts and mitochondria. However, both isoforms showed a distinct response to salinity: the expression of OsGR3 but not OsGR1 was induced by salt stress. In addition, the transcript level of OsGR3 was greatly increased with salicylic acid treatment but was not significantly affected by methyl jasmonate, dehydration or heat shock stress. Our results provide new clues about the possible roles of functional OsGR3 in salt stress and biotic stress tolerance.
The ethylene response factor (ERF) family are members of the APETALA2 (AP2)/ERF transcription factor superfamily; they are known to play an important role in plant adaptation to biotic and abiotic stress. ERF genes have been studied in Arabidopsis, rice, grape, and maize; however, there are few reports of ERF genes in sorghum. We identified 105 sorghum ERF (SbERF) genes, which were categorized into 12 groups (A-1 to A-6 and B-1 to B-6) based on their sequence similarity, and this new method of classification for ERF genes was then further characterized. A comprehensive bioinformatic analysis of SbERF genes was performed using a sorghum genomic database, to analyze the phylogeny of SbERF genes, identify other conserved motifs apart from the AP2/ERF domain, map SbERF genes to the 10 sorghum chromosomes, and determine the tissue-specific expression patterns of SbERF genes. Gene clustering indicates that SbERF genes were generated by tandem duplications. Comparison of SbERF genes with maize ERF homologs suggests lateral gene transfer between monocot species. These results can contribute to our understanting of the evolution of the ERF gene family.
EPF1-EPF2 and EPFL9/Stomagen act antagonistically in regulating leaf stomatal density. The aim of this study was to elucidate the evolutionary functional divergence of EPF/EPFL family genes. Phylogenetic analyses showed that AtEPFL9/Stomagen-like genes are conserved only in vascular plants and are closely related to AtEPF1/EPF2-like genes. Modeling showed that EPF/EPFL peptides share a common 3D structure that is constituted of a scaffold and loop. Molecular dynamics simulation suggested that AtEPF1/EPF2-like peptides form an additional disulfide bond in their loop regions and show greater flexibility in these regions than AtEPFL9/Stomagen-like peptides. This study uncovered the evolutionary relationship and the conformational divergence of proteins encoded by the EPF/EPFL family genes.
This study investigated the roles of jasmonates in the regulation of sorgoleone accumulation and the expression of genes involved in sorgoleone biosynthesis in sorghum roots. Both methyl jasmonate (MeJa) and jasmonic acid (JA) substantially promoted root hair formation, secondary root development, root weight, and sorgoleone accumulation in sorghum roots. Sorgoleone content varied widely depending on the concentration of JA or MeJa and the duration of their application. Root weight and sorgoleone accumulation were highest after the application of JA or MeJa at a concentration of 5.0 μM, and then declined with increasing concentrations of jasmonates. At 5.0 μM, JA and MeJa increased sorgoleone content by 4.1 and 3.4-fold, respectively. Transcript accumulation was apparent for all genes, particularly for the O-methyltransferase 3 gene, which increased in expression levels up to 8.1-fold after a 36-h exposure to MeJa and 3.5-fold after a 48-h exposure to JA. The results of this study pave the way for more effective biosynthesis of sorgoleone, an important and useful allelochemical obtained from a variety of plant species.
Basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) genes are important regulators of development in plants. SbbHLH1, a Sorghum bicolor bHLH sequence, was isolated from a suppression subtractive hybridization library constructed using 13 independent brown midrib (bmr) mutants as the tester and wild-type sorghum as the driver. The gene was upregulated in at least five of the mutants at the five- to seven-leaf stage. Using a yeast expression system, the N-terminal portion of SbbHLH1 was shown to be required for proper transactivation. Its heterologous expression in Arabidopsis thaliana markedly reduced the plant's lignin content. It downregulated the lignin synthesis genes 4CL1, HCT, COMT, PAL1, and CCR1, and upregulated the transcription factors MYB83, MYB46, and MYB63. The hypothesis is proposed that SbbHLH1 has stronger effect on the regulation of lignin synthesis than the various MYB transcription factors, with a possible feedback mechanism acting on the MYB transcriptional regulators.
To elucidate genetic mechanisms of host species specificity between graminicolous anthracnose fungi and gramineous plants, infection assays were performed with a Sorghum isolate (Colletotrichum sublineolum), a Digitaria isolate (C. hanaui), a Polypogon isolate (C. cereale), and an Avena isolate (C. cereale). They were specifically virulent on the plants from which they were isolated. When 72 wheat lines were inoculated with an unadapted isolate from Asia Minor bluegrass (Cgp29), however, some exceptional cultivars were recognized. Although most cultivars were resistant to Cgp29, 'Hope' was susceptible. In F2 populations derived from crosses between three resistant cultivars-'Norin 4' (N4), 'Chinese Spring' (CS), and 'Shin-chunaga' (Sch)-and the susceptible Hope, resistant and susceptible seedlings segregated in a 3:1 ratio, suggesting that a major gene is involved in the resistance of each cultivar to Cgp29. In F2 populations derived from crosses between the three resistant cultivars, all seedlings were resistant, suggesting that these three cultivars carry the same gene. This resistance gene was designated as "resistance to Colletotrichum cereale 1" (Rcc1). Analysis with the CS-Hope chromosome substitution lines and molecular mapping revealed that Rcc1 was located on the long arm of chromosome 5A. Cytologically, Rcc1 was mainly associated with hypersensitive reaction. These results suggest that major genes similar to those controlling cultivar specificity are involved in the resistance of wheat against the unadapted isolate of C. cereale.
The recent development of RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) technology has enabled us to analyze the transcriptomes of plants and their pathogens simultaneously. However, RNA-seq often relies on aligning reads to a reference genome and is thus unsuitable for analyzing most plant pathogens, as their genomes have not been fully sequenced. Here, we analyzed the transcriptomes of Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench and its pathogen Bipolaris sorghicola simultaneously by using RNA-seq in combination with de novo transcriptome assembly. We sequenced the mixed transcriptome of the disease-resistant sorghum cultivar SIL-05 and B. sorghicola in infected leaves in the early stages of infection (12 and 24 h post-inoculation) by using Illumina mRNA-Seq technology. Sorghum gene expression was quantified by aligning reads to the sorghum reference genome. For B. sorghicola, reads that could not be aligned to the sorghum reference genome were subjected to de novo transcriptome assembly. We identified genes of B. sorghicola for growth of this fungus in sorghum, as well as genes in sorghum for the defense response. The genes of B. sorghicola included those encoding Woronin body major protein, LysM domain-containing intracellular hyphae protein, transcriptional factors CpcA and HacA, and plant cell-wall degrading enzymes. The sorghum genes included those encoding two receptors of the simple eLRR domain protein family, transcription factors that are putative orthologs of OsWRKY45 and OsWRKY28 in rice, and a class III peroxidase that is a homolog involved in disease resistance in the Poaceae. These defense-related genes were particularly strongly induced among paralogs annotated in the sorghum genome. Thus, in the absence of genome sequences for the pathogen, simultaneous transcriptome analysis of plant and pathogen by using de novo assembly was useful for identifying putative key genes in the plant-pathogen interaction.
Sugarcane contributes ~80% of sugar production in the world and is an established biofuel crop. In working towards understanding the molecular basis of high sucrose accumulation, we have annotated and analysed the ATP-dependent phosphofructokinase (PFK) gene family that catalyses the phosphorylation of D-fructose 6-phosphate to D-fructose 1,6-bisphosphate. PFKs play an essential role in sucrose metabolism in plants and their expression patterns are unknown in sugarcane. In this study, based on the sorghum genome and sugarcane EST database, 10 PFK gene members were annotated and further verified by PCR using sugarcane genomic DNA. An unrooted phylogenetic tree was constructed with the deduced protein sequences of PFKs that were from the assembly of cDNA library of sugarcane and other plants. The results showed that gene duplication events and the retention rate after genome wide or segmental duplications occurred in higher frequency in monocots than in dicots and the genes in subgroup II of group III were likely originated from recent duplication events. Quantitative RT-PCR was performed to investigate the gene expression of 10 PFK genes in five tissues of three Saccharum species, including two developmental stages in leaves and three in culms. Of the PFK family members in sugarcane, ScPFK6, 7 and 8 appeared to be the primary isoforms based on the highly abundant expression of these three genes. ScPFK7 showed high expression level in the leaves, suggesting a potential role in sucrose metabolism. ScPFK8 had lower expression level in Saccharum officinarum L. than in the other two species, suggesting negative regulation of sucrose metabolism, which might have contributed to the high sugar content of S. officinarum. The genes in monocot specific subgroup II of group III, PFK7, 8 and 9, showed variation among the three Saccharum species, suggesting potential functional redundancy. Our results provide detailed annotation and analysis of the PFK gene family in sugarcane. Further elucidation of the role of ScPFK8 in the domestication process of sugarcane would be useful.
C4 photosynthesis evolved more than 60 times independently in different plant lineages. Each time, multiple genes were recruited into C4 metabolism. The corresponding promoters acquired new regulatory features such as high expression, light induction, or cell type-specific expression in mesophyll or bundle sheath cells. We have previously shown that histone modifications contribute to the regulation of the model C4 phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (C4-Pepc) promoter in maize (Zea mays). We here tested the light- and cell type-specific responses of three selected histone acetylations and two histone methylations on five additional C4 genes (C4-Ca, C4-Ppdk, C4-Me, C4-Pepck, and C4-RbcS2) in maize. Histone acetylation and nucleosome occupancy assays indicated extended promoter regions with regulatory upstream regions more than 1,000 bp from the transcription initiation site for most of these genes. Despite any detectable homology of the promoters on the primary sequence level, histone modification patterns were highly coregulated. Specifically, H3K9ac was regulated by illumination, whereas H3K4me3 was regulated in a cell type-specific manner. We further compared histone modifications on the C4-Pepc and C4-Me genes from maize and the homologous genes from sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and Setaria italica. Whereas sorghum and maize share a common C4 origin, C4 metabolism evolved independently in S. italica. The distribution of histone modifications over the promoters differed between the species, but differential regulation of light-induced histone acetylation and cell type-specific histone methylation were evident in all three species. We propose that a preexisting histone code was recruited into C4 promoter control during the evolution of C4 metabolism.
In comparison with the technology platforms developed to localize transcripts and proteins, imaging tools for visualization of metabolite distributions in plant tissues are less well developed and lack versatility. This hampers our understanding of plant metabolism and dynamics. In this study, we demonstrate that desorption electrospray ionization mass spectrometry imaging (DESI-MSI) of tissue imprints on porous Teflon may be used to accurately image the distribution of even labile plant metabolites such as hydroxynitrile glucosides, which normally undergo enzymatic hydrolysis by specific β-glucosidases upon cell disruption. This fast and simple sample preparation resulted in no substantial differences in the distribution and ratios of all hydroxynitrile glucosides between leaves from wild-type Lotus japonicus and a β-glucosidase mutant plant that lacks the ability to hydrolyze certain hydroxynitrile glucosides. In wild-type, the enzymatic conversion of hydroxynitrile glucosides and the concomitant release of glucose were easily visualized when a restricted area of the leaf tissue was damaged prior to sample preparation. The gene encoding the first enzyme in hydroxynitrile glucoside biosynthesis in L. japonicus leaves, CYP79D3, was found to be highly expressed during the early stages of leaf development, and the hydroxynitrile glucoside distribution in mature leaves reflected this early expression pattern. The utility of direct DESI-MSI of plant tissue was demonstrated using cryo-sections of cassava (Manihot esculenta) tubers. The hydroxynitrile glucoside levels were highest in the outer cell layers, as verified by LC-MS analyses. The unexpected discovery of a hydroxynitrile-derived di-glycoside shows the potential of DESI-MSI to discover and guide investigations into new metabolic routes.
Plant small-molecule UDP-glycosyltransferases (UGT) glycosylate a vast number of endogenous substances but also act in detoxification of metabolites produced by plant-pathogenic microorganisms. The ability to inactivate the Fusarium graminearum mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON) into DON-3-O-glucoside is crucial for resistance of cereals. We analyzed the UGT gene family of the monocot model species Brachypodium distachyon and functionally characterized two gene clusters containing putative orthologs of previously identified DON-detoxification genes from Arabidopsis thaliana and barley. Analysis of transcription showed that UGT encoded in both clusters are highly inducible by DON and expressed at much higher levels upon infection with a wild-type DON-producing F. graminearum strain compared with infection with a mutant deficient in DON production. Expression of these genes in a toxin-sensitive strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae revealed that only two B. distachyon UGT encoded by members of a cluster of six genes homologous to the DON-inactivating barley HvUGT13248 were able to convert DON into DON-3-O-glucoside. Also, a single copy gene from Sorghum bicolor orthologous to this cluster and one of three putative orthologs of rice exhibit this ability. Seemingly, the UGT genes undergo rapid evolution and changes in copy number, making it difficult to identify orthologs with conserved substrate specificity.
Modern sugarcane cultivars are highly polyploid and aneuploid hybrids, which are propagated as clones. Their complex genome structure comprises 100-130 chromosomes and 10-13 hom(e)ologous copies of most loci. There is preliminary evidence of very high heterozygosity, with implications for genetic improvement approaches ranging from marker-assisted selection to transgenics. Here, we report that sugarcane cultivar Q200 has at least nine alleles at the Loading Stem Gene (ScLSG) locus. Exon-intron structure is identical and the predicted protein products show at least 92 % identity, across sugarcane alleles and the Sorghum homologue Sb07g027880. There is substantial variation in the 5' UTR and promoter regions including numerous allele-specific nucleotide polymorphisms, insertions and deletions. We developed an allele-specific qRT-PCR method to undertake the first compelling test of allele-specific expression in polyploid sugarcane. Seven alleles distinguished by this method all showed peak expression in the sucrose-loading zone of the stem, but there was apparent variability in expression patterns across other tissues. The ScLSG2 and ScLSG5 alleles appear promising for specificity of expression in stems, relative to leaf, meristem, emerging shoot and root tissues. Within the stem, there was activity in parenchyma, vascular and rind tissues. This expression pattern is of interest in basic research and biotechnology aimed at enhanced sucrose content, engineering value-added products, and manipulation of stem biomass composition.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) is one of the world's most important cereal crops. S. propinquum is a perennial wild relative of S. bicolor with well-developed rhizomes. Functional genomics analysis of S. propinquum, especially with respect to molecular mechanisms related to rhizome growth and development, can contribute to the development of more sustainable grain, forage, and bioenergy cropping systems. In this study, we used a whole rice genome oligonucleotide microarray to obtain tissue-specific gene expression profiles of S. propinquum with special emphasis on rhizome development. A total of 548 tissue-enriched genes were detected, including 31 and 114 unique genes that were expressed predominantly in the rhizome tips (RT) and internodes (RI), respectively. Further GO analysis indicated that the functions of these tissue-enriched genes corresponded to their characteristic biological processes. A few distinct cis-elements, including ABA-responsive RY repeat CATGCA, sugar-repressive TTATCC, and GA-responsive TAACAA, were found to be prevalent in RT-enriched genes, implying an important role in rhizome growth and development. Comprehensive comparative analysis of these rhizome-enriched genes and rhizome-specific genes previously identified in Oryza longistaminata and S. propinquum indicated that phytohormones, including ABA, GA, and SA, are key regulators of gene expression during rhizome development. Co-localization of rhizome-enriched genes with rhizome-related QTLs in rice and sorghum generated functional candidates for future cloning of genes associated with rhizome growth and development.
Transcription factor binding is regulated by several interactions, primarily involving cis-element binding. These binding sites maintain specificity by means of their sequence, and other additional factors such as inter-motif distance and spacer specificity. The ACGT core sequence has been established as a functionally important cis-element which frequently regulates gene expression in synergy with other cis-elements. In this study, we used two monocotyledonous - Oryza sativa and Sorghum bicolor, and two dicotyledonous species - Arabidopsis thaliana and Glycine max to analyze the conservation of co-occurring ACGT core elements in plant promoters with respect to spacer distance between them. Using data generated from Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, we also identified conserved regions across all spacers and possible conditions regulating gene promoters with multiple ACGT cis-elements. Our data indicated specific predominant spacer lengths between co-occurring ACGT elements, but these lengths were not universally conserved across all species under analysis. However, the frequency distribution indicated local regions of high correlation among monocots and dicots. Sequence specificity data clearly revealed a preference for G at the first and C at the terminal position of a spacer sequence, suggesting that the G-box motif is the most prevalent for the ACGT class of promoters. Using gene expression databases, we also observed trends suggesting that co-occurring ACGT elements are responsible for gene regulation in response to exogenous stress. Conservation in patterns of ACGT (N) ACGT among orthologous genes also indicated the possibility that emergence of functional significance across species was a result of parallel evolution of these cis-elements. Although the importance of ACGT elements has been acknowledged for several plant species, ours is the first study that attempts to compare their occurrence across four species and analyze conservation among them. The apparent preference for particular spacer distances suggest that these motifs might be implicated in important physiological functions which are yet to be identified. Variations in correlation patterns among monocots and dicots might arise out of differences in transcriptional regulation in the two classes. In accordance with literature, we established the involvement of co-occurring ACGT elements in stress responses and showed how this regulation differs with variation in the ACGT (N) ACGT motif. We believe that our study will be an essential resource in determining optimum spacer length and spacer sequence between ACGT elements for promoter design in future.
Epicuticular wax (bloom) plays important roles in protecting the tissues of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) plants from abiotic stresses. However, reducing wax content provides resistance to greenbug and sheath blight-a useful trait in agricultural crops. We generated a sorghum bloomless (bm) mutant by gamma irradiation. One bm population segregated for individuals with and without epicuticular wax at a frequency of 72:22, suggesting that the bm mutation was under the control of a single recessive nuclear gene. Genes differentially expressed in the wild-type and the bm mutant were identified by RNA-seq technology. Of the 31 downregulated genes, Sb06g023280 was the most differentially expressed and was similar to WBC11, which encodes an ABC transporter responsible for wax secretion in Arabidopsis. An inversion of about 1.4 Mb was present in the region upstream of the Sb06g023280 gene in the bm mutant; it is likely that this inversion changed the promoter sequence of the Sb06g023280 gene. Using genomic PCR, we confirmed that six independent F2 bm mutant-phenotype plants carried the same inversion. Therefore, we concluded that the inversion involving the Sb06g023280 gene inhibited wax secretion in the bloomless sorghum.
Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi contribute to plant nitrogen (N) acquisition. Recent studies demonstrated the transport of N in the form of ammonium during AM symbiosis. Here, we hypothesize that induction of specific ammonium transporter (AMT) genes in Sorghum bicolor during AM colonization might play a key role in the functionality of the symbiosis. For the first time, combining a split-root experiment and microdissection technology, we were able to assess the precise expression pattern of two AM-inducible AMTs, SbAMT3;1 and SbAMT4. Immunolocalization was used to localize the protein of SbAMT3;1. The expression of SbAMT3;1 and SbAMT4 was greatly induced locally in root cells containing arbuscules and in adjacent cells. However, a split-root experiment revealed that this induction was not systemic. By contrast, a strictly AM-induced phosphate transporter (SbPt11) was expressed systemically in the split-root experiment. However, a gradient of expression was apparent. Immunolocalization analyses demonstrated that SbAMT3;1 was present only in cells containing developing arbuscules. Our results show that the SbAMT3;1 and SbAMT4 genes are expressed in root cortical cells, which makes them ready to accommodate arbuscules, a process of considerable importance in view of the short life span of arbuscules. Additionally, SbAMT3;1 might play an important role in N transfer during AM symbiosis.
Pearl millet is one of the most important subsistence crops grown in India and sub-Saharan Africa. In many cereal crops, reduced height is a key trait for enhancing yield, and dwarf mutants have been extensively used in breeding to reduce yield loss due to lodging under intense management. In pearl millet, the recessive d2 dwarfing gene has been deployed widely in commercial germplasm grown in India, the United States, and Australia. Despite its importance, very little research has gone into determining the identity of the d2 gene. We used comparative information, genetic mapping in two F2 populations representing a total of some 1500 progeny, and haplotype analysis of three tall and three dwarf inbred lines to delineate the d2 region by two genetic markers that, in sorghum, define a region of 410 kb with 40 annotated genes. One of the sorghum genes annotated within this region is ABCB1, which encodes a P-glycoprotein involved in auxin transport. This gene had previously been shown to underlie the economically important dw3 dwarf mutation in sorghum. The cosegregation of ABCB1 with the d2 phenotype, its differential expression in the tall inbred ICMP 451 and the dwarf inbred Tift 23DB, and the similar phenotype of stacked lower internodes in the sorghum dw3 and pearl millet d2 mutants suggest that ABCB1 is a likely candidate for d2.
Caffeic acid o-methyltransferase (COMT) is one of the important enzymes controlling lignin monomer production in plant cell wall synthesis. Analysis of the genome sequence of the new grass model Brachypodium distachyon identified four COMT gene homologs, designated as BdCOMT1, BdCOMT2, BdCOMT3, and BdCOMT4. Phylogenetic analysis suggested that they belong to the COMT gene family, whereas syntenic analysis through comparisons with rice and sorghum revealed that BdCOMT4 on Chromosome 3 is the orthologous copy of the COMT genes well characterized in other grass species. The other three COMT genes are unique to Brachypodium since orthologous copies are not found in the collinear regions of rice and sorghum genomes. Expression studies indicated that all four Brachypodium COMT genes are transcribed but with distinct patterns of tissue specificity. Full-length cDNAs were cloned in frame into the pQE-T7 expression vector for the purification of recombinant Brachypodium COMT proteins. Biochemical characterization of enzyme activity and substrate specificity showed that BdCOMT4 has significant effect on a broad range of substrates with the highest preference for caffeic acid. The other three COMTs had low or no effect on these substrates, suggesting that a diversified evolution occurred on these duplicate genes that not only impacted their pattern of expression, but also altered their biochemical properties.
Ginger (Zingiber officinale) and turmeric (Curcuma longa) accumulate important pharmacologically active metabolites at high levels in their rhizomes. Despite their importance, relatively little is known regarding gene expression in the rhizomes of ginger and turmeric. In order to identify rhizome-enriched genes and genes encoding specialized metabolism enzymes and pathway regulators, we evaluated an assembled collection of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from eight different ginger and turmeric tissues. Comparisons to publicly available sorghum rhizome ESTs revealed a total of 777 gene transcripts expressed in ginger/turmeric and sorghum rhizomes but apparently absent from other tissues. The list of rhizome-specific transcripts was enriched for genes associated with regulation of tissue growth, development, and transcription. In particular, transcripts for ethylene response factors and AUX/IAA proteins appeared to accumulate in patterns mirroring results from previous studies regarding rhizome growth responses to exogenous applications of auxin and ethylene. Thus, these genes may play important roles in defining rhizome growth and development. Additional associations were made for ginger and turmeric rhizome-enriched MADS box transcription factors, their putative rhizome-enriched homologs in sorghum, and rhizomatous QTLs in rice. Additionally, analysis of both primary and specialized metabolism genes indicates that ginger and turmeric rhizomes are primarily devoted to the utilization of leaf supplied sucrose for the production and/or storage of specialized metabolites associated with the phenylpropanoid pathway and putative type III polyketide synthase gene products. This finding reinforces earlier hypotheses predicting roles of this enzyme class in the production of curcuminoids and gingerols. A significant set of genes were found to be exclusively or preferentially expressed in the rhizome of ginger and turmeric. Specific transcription factors and other regulatory genes were found that were common to the two species and that are excellent candidates for involvement in rhizome growth, differentiation and development. Large classes of enzymes involved in specialized metabolism were also found to have apparent tissue-specific expression, suggesting that gene expression itself may play an important role in regulating metabolite production in these plants.
Salinity increases phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase kinase (PEPCase-k) activity in sorghum leaves. This work has been focused on the mechanisms responsible for this phenomenon. The light-triggered expression of SbPPCK1 gene, accountable for the photosynthetic C4-PEPCase-k, is controlled by a complex signal transduction chain involving phospholipases C and D (PLC and PLD). These two phospholipase-derived signalling pathways were functional in salinized plants. Pharmacological agents that act on PLC (U-73122, neomycin) or PLD (n-butanol) derived signals, blocked the expression of SbPPCK1, but had little effect on PEPCase-k activity. This discrepancy was further noticed when SbPPCK1-3 gene expression and PEPCase-k activity were studied in parallel. At 172 mM, the main effect of NaCl was to decrease the rate of PEPCase-k protein turnover. Meanwhile, 258 mM NaCl significantly increased both SbPPCK1 and SbPPCK2 gene expression and/or mRNA stability. The combination of these factors contributed to maintain a high PEPCase-k activity in salinity. LiCl increased calcium-dependent protein kinase (CDPK) activity in illuminated sorghum leaves while it decreased the rate of PEPCase-k degradation. The latter effect was restrained by W7, an inhibitor of CDPK activity. Recombinant PEPCase-k protein was phosphorylated in vitro by PKA. A conserved phosphorylation motif, which can be recognized by PKA and by plant CDPKs, is present in the three PEPCase-ks proteins. Thus, it is possible that a phosphorylation event could be controlling (increasing) the stability of PEPCase-k in salinity. These results propose a new mechanism of regulation of PEPCase-k levels, and highlight the relevance of the preservation of key metabolic elements during the bulk degradation of proteins, which is commonly associated to stress.
The rationale for gathering information from plants procuring nitrogen through symbiotic interactions controlled by a common genetic program for a sustainable biofuel production is the high energy demanding application of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers. We curated sequence information publicly available for the biofuel plant sugarcane, performed an analysis of the common SYM pathway known to control symbiosis in other plants, and provide results, sequences and literature links as an online database. Sugarcane sequences and informations were downloaded from the nucEST database, cleaned and trimmed with seqclean, assembled with TGICL plus translating mapping method, and annotated. The annotation is based on BLAST searches against a local formatted plant Uniprot90 generated with CD-HIT for functional assignment, rpsBLAST to CDD database for conserved domain analysis, and BLAST search to sorghum's for Gene Ontology (GO) assignment. Gene expression was normalized according the Unigene standard, presented as ESTs/100 kb. Protein sequences known in the SYM pathway were used as queries to search the SymGRASS sequence database. Additionally, antimicrobial peptides described in the PhytAMP database served as queries to retrieve and generate expression profiles of these defense genes in the libraries compared to the libraries obtained under symbiotic interactions. We describe the SymGRASS, a database of sugarcane orthologous genes involved in arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) and root nodule (RN) symbiosis. The database aggregates knowledge about sequences, tissues, organ, developmental stages and experimental conditions, and provides annotation and level of gene expression for sugarcane transcripts and SYM orthologous genes in sugarcane through a web interface. Several candidate genes were found for all nodes in the pathway, and interestingly a set of symbiosis specific genes was found. The knowledge integrated in SymGRASS may guide studies on molecular, cellular and physiological mechanisms by which sugarcane controls the establishment and efficiency of endophytic associations. We believe that the candidate sequences for the SYM pathway together with the pool of exclusively expressed tentative consensus (TC) sequences are crucial for the design of molecular studies to unravel the mechanisms controlling the establishment of symbioses in sugarcane, ultimately serving as a basis for the improvement of grass crops.
Sorghum allelopathy has been reported in a series of field experiments following sorghum establishment. In recent years, sorghum phytotoxicity and allelopathic interference also have been well-described in greenhouse and laboratory settings. Observations of allelopathy have occurred in diverse locations and with various sorghum plant parts. Phytotoxicity has been reported when sorghum was incorporated into the soil as a green manure, when residues remained on the soil surface in reduced tillage settings, or when sorghum was cultivated as a crop in managed fields. Allelochemicals present in sorghum tissues have varied with plant part, age, and cultivar evaluated. A diverse group of sorghum allelochemicals, including numerous phenolics, a cyanogenic glycoside (dhurrin), and a hydrophobic p-benzoquinone (sorgoleone) have been isolated and identified in recent years from sorghum shoots, roots, and root exudates, as our capacity to analyze and identify complex secondary products in trace quantities in the plant and in the soil rhizosphere has improved. These allelochemicals, particularly sorgoleone, have been widely investigated in terms of their mode(s) of action, specific activity and selectivity, release into the rhizosphere, and uptake and translocation into sensitive indicator species. Both genetics and environment have been shown to influence sorgoleone production and expression of genes involved in sorgoleone biosynthesis. In the soil rhizosphere, sorgoleone is released continuously by living root hairs where it accumulates in significant concentrations around its roots. Further experimentation designed to study the regulation of sorgoleone production by living sorghum root hairs may result in increased capacity to utilize sorghum cover crops more effectively for suppression of germinating weed seedlings, in a manner similar to that of soil-applied preemergent herbicides like trifluralin.
Class 2 transposable elements (TEs) are the predominant elements in and around plant genes where they generate significant allelic diversity. Using the complete sequences of four grasses, we have performed a novel comparative analysis of class 2 TEs. To ensure consistent comparative analyses, we re-annotated class 2 TEs in Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa (rice), Sorghum bicolor and Zea mays and assigned them to one of the five cut-and-paste superfamilies found in plant genomes (Tc1/mariner, PIF/Harbinger, hAT, Mutator, CACTA). We have focused on noncoding elements because of their abundance, and compared superfamily copy number, size and genomic distribution as well as correlation with the level of nearby gene expression. Our comparison revealed both unique and conserved features. First, the average length or size distribution of elements in each superfamily is largely conserved, with the shortest always being Tc1/mariner elements, followed by PIF/Harbinger, hAT, Mutator and CACTA. This order also holds for the ratio of the copy numbers of noncoding to coding elements. Second, with the exception of CACTAs, noncoding TEs are enriched within and flanking genes, where they display conserved distribution patterns, having the highest peak in the promoter region. Finally, our analysis of microarray data revealed that genes associated with Tc1/mariner and PIF/Harbinger noncoding elements have significantly higher expression levels than genes without class 2 TEs. In contrast, genes with CACTA elements have significantly lower expression than genes without class 2 TEs. We have achieved the most comprehensive annotation of class 2 TEs to date in these four grass genomes. Comparative analysis of this robust dataset led to the identification of several previously unknown features of each superfamily related to copy number, element size, genomic distribution and correlation with the expression levels of nearby genes. These results highlight the importance of distinguishing TE superfamilies when assessing their impact on gene and genome evolution.
Senescence is a developmental process which in annual crop plants overlaps with the reproductive phase. Senescence might reduce crop yield when it is induced prematurely under adverse environmental conditions. This review covers the role of senescence for the productivity of crop plants. With the aim to enhance productivity, a number of functional stay-green cultivars have been selected by conventional breeding, in particular of sorghum and maize. In many cases, a positive correlation between leaf area duration and yield has been observed, although in a number of other cases, stay-green cultivars do not display significant effects with regards to productivity. In several crops, the stay-green phenotype is observed to be associated with a higher drought resistance and a better performance under low nitrogen conditions. Among the approaches used to achieve stay-green phenotypes in transgenic plants, the expression of the IPT gene under control of senescence-associated promoters has been the most successful. The promoters employed for senescence-regulated expression contain cis-elements for binding of WRKY transcription factors and factors controlled by abscisic acid. In most crops transformed with such constructs the stay-green character has led to increased biomass, but only in few cases to increased seed yield. A coincidence of drought stress resistance and stay-green trait is observed in many transgenic plants.
The aim of this study was to investigate the anti proliferative activity of 3-deoxyanthocyanin extracted from red sorghum bran on human breast cancer cell line MCF 7. The confirmatory tests were carried out in vitro through the expression studies of p(53) and (bcl) 2 genes in MCF 7 cells. The 3-deoxyanthocyanins were isolated from red sorghum bran and cytotoxic studies were performed in MCF 7 cell line by MTT assay. The mRNA expression levels of p(53) and (bcl) 2 genes were performed using semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis in MCF 7 cells. On cytotoxic studies, the present data indicates sorghum anthocyanins, which showed 84.09% of inhibition in the proliferation of MCF 7 cells, and the CTC(50) value was 300 μg/ml. The sorghum 3-deoxyanthocyanins induced apoptosis in MCF 7 was mediated by stimulation of the p(53) gene and down regulation of the (bcl) 2 gene. The significance of our work was the anthocyanin isolated from red sorghum bran inhibits the proliferation of human breast cancer cell line.
Biological scientists have long sought after understanding how genes and their structural/functional changes contribute to morphological diversity. Though both grain (BT×623) and sweet (Keller) sorghum lines originated from the same species Sorghum bicolor L., they exhibit obvious phenotypic variations. However, the genome re-sequencing data revealed that they exhibited limited functional diversity in their encoding genes in a genome-wide level. The result raises the question how the obvious morphological variations between grain and sweet sorghum occurred in a relatively short evolutionary or domesticated period. We implemented an integrative approach by using computational and experimental analyses to provide a detail insight into phenotypic, genetic variation and expression diversity between BT×623 and Keller lines. We have investigated genome-wide expression divergence between BT×623 and Keller under normal and sucrose treatment. Through the data analysis, we detected more than 3,000 differentially expressed genes between these two varieties. Such expression divergence was partially contributed by differential cis-regulatory elements or DNA methylation, which was genetically determined by functionally divergent genes between these two varieties. Both tandem and segmental duplication played important roles in the genome evolution and expression divergence. Substantial differences in gene expression patterns between these two varieties have been observed. Such an expression divergence is genetically determined by the divergence in genome level.
Heterotrimeric G-protein complexes (Gα, Gβ and Gγ) operate at the apex of diverse signal transduction systems along with their cognate transmembrane G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and appropriate downstream effectors in the plant. Rice Gα in response to stress has not been well studied. Here, we report the in silico analysis of Gα subunit from Oryza sativa cv. Indica group Swarna [RGA1(I), accession number HQ634688], its promoter and its transcript upregulation in response to abiotic stresses. Genomic sequence of RGA1(I) contains thirteen exonic and twelve intronic segments. Phylogenetic analysis of RGA1(I) demonstrated high homology with Sorghum and maize and is distantly related to barley and wheat. Promoter sequence analysis of RGA1(I) confirms the presence of stress-related cis-regulatory elements viz. ABA, MeJAE, ARE, GT-1 boxes and LTR suggesting its active and possible independent roles in abiotic stress signalling. Expasy PROSITE database of protein families and domains revealed important motifs, patterns and biologically significant sites in RGA1(I). Three dimensional structure of RGA1(I) protein predicted by I-TASSER server and its stereochemical qualities were validated by PROCHECK and QMEAN server indicating the acceptability of the predicted model. The transcript profiling of RGA1(I) showed upregulation following NaCl, cold and drought stress. Under elevated temperature, its transcript was down regulated. Heavy metal(loid)s stress showed rhythmic and strong upregulation. It showed a rhythmic response in ABA stress. These findings provide a critical evidence for its active role in regulation of abiotic stresses in rice. These findings suggest its possible exploitation in the development of abiotic stress tolerance in crops.
The antiporters, uniporters and symporters are the functional classes of MFS that play major role in ions homeostasis, regulation of pumps and channels, membrane structure, transporters activity in tolerance to abiotic stresses. Major facilitator superfamily (MFS) encodes Na(+)/H(+) antiporter that are considered as being sensors of the molecule transports. A large number of MFS proteins have been identified in several plants, rice, maize, Arabidopsis etc. However, the majority of proteins in sorghum are described as putative, uncharacterized till date. This suggested that identified proteins of MFS in sorghum are far from saturation. Hence, we developed gene ontology (GO) terms semantic similarity based method using GOSemSim measure of R package. As a result, total 2,568 high (100 %) semantic similar orthologous proteins from 7 plant species were obtained. These data were used to predict function of 257 putative uncharacterized proteins from 18 families of MFS in Sorghum. Consequently, the identified proteins belonged to the function of regulation of pumps and channels, membrane structure, transporters activity, ions homeostasis, transporter mechanisms and binding process. These identified functions appear to have a distinct mechanism of salt-stress adaptation in plants. The proposed method will help in further identifying new proteins that can help in the development of agronomically and economically important plants.
Endo-(1,4)-β-glucanase (cellulase) glycosyl hydrolase GH9 enzymes have been implicated in several aspects of cell wall metabolism in higher plants, including cellulose biosynthesis and degradation, modification of other wall polysaccharides that contain contiguous (1,4)-β-glucosyl residues, and wall loosening during cell elongation. The endo-(1,4)-β-glucanase gene families from barley (Hordeum vulgare), maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), rice (Oryza sativa) and Brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon) range in size from 23 to 29 members. Phylogenetic analyses show variations in clade structure between the grasses and Arabidopsis, and indicate differential gene loss and gain during evolution. Map positions and comparative studies of gene structures allow orthologous genes in the five species to be identified and synteny between the grasses is found to be high. It is also possible to differentiate between homoeologues resulting from ancient polyploidizations of the maize genome. Transcript analyses using microarray, massively parallel signature sequencing and quantitative PCR data for barley, rice and maize indicate that certain members of the endo-(1,4)-β-glucanase gene family are transcribed across a wide range of tissues, while others are specifically transcribed in particular tissues. There are strong correlations between transcript levels of several members of the endo-(1,4)-β-glucanase family and the data suggest that evolutionary conservation of transcription exists between orthologues across the grass family. There are also strong correlations between certain members of the endo-(1,4)-β-glucanase family and other genes known to be involved in cell wall loosening and cell expansion, such as expansins and xyloglucan endotransglycosylases. The identification of these groups of genes will now allow us to test hypotheses regarding their functions and joint participation in wall synthesis, re-modelling and degradation, together with their potential role in lignocellulose conversion during biofuel production from grasses and cereal crop residues.
The plant type III polyketide synthases (PKSs), which produce diverse secondary metabolites with different biological activities, have successfully co-evolved with land plants. To gain insight into the roles that ancestral type III PKSs played during the early evolution of land plants, we cloned and characterized PpORS from the moss Physcomitrella. PpORS has been proposed to closely resemble the most recent common ancestor of the plant type III PKSs. PpORS condenses a very long chain fatty acyl-CoA with four molecules of malonyl-CoA and catalyzes decarboxylative aldol cyclization to yield the pentaketide 2'-oxoalkylresorcinol. Therefore, PpORS is a 2'-oxoalkylresorcinol synthase. Structure modeling and sequence alignments identified a unique set of amino acid residues (Gln(218), Val(277), and Ala(286)) at the putative PpORS active site. Substitution of the Ala(286) to Phe apparently constricted the active site cavity, and the A286F mutant instead produced triketide alkylpyrones from fatty acyl-CoA substrates with shorter chain lengths. Phylogenetic analysis and comparison of the active sites of PpORS and alkylresorcinol synthases from sorghum and rice suggested that the gramineous enzymes evolved independently from PpORS to have similar functions but with distinct active site architecture. Microarray analysis revealed that PpORS is exclusively expressed in nonprotonemal moss cells. The in planta function of PpORS, therefore, is probably related to a nonprotonemal structure, such as the cuticle.
Whole-genome sequences established for model and major crop species constitute a key resource for advanced genomic research. For outbreeding forage and turf grass species like ryegrasses (Lolium spp.), such resources have yet to be developed. Here, we present a model of the perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) genome on the basis of conserved synteny to barley (Hordeum vulgare) and the model grass genome Brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon) as well as rice (Oryza sativa) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). A transcriptome-based genetic linkage map of perennial ryegrass served as a scaffold to establish the chromosomal arrangement of syntenic genes from model grass species. This scaffold revealed a high degree of synteny and macrocollinearity and was then utilized to anchor a collection of perennial ryegrass genes in silico to their predicted genome positions. This resulted in the unambiguous assignment of 3,315 out of 8,876 previously unmapped genes to the respective chromosomes. In total, the GenomeZipper incorporates 4,035 conserved grass gene loci, which were used for the first genome-wide sequence divergence analysis between perennial ryegrass, barley, Brachypodium, rice, and sorghum. The perennial ryegrass GenomeZipper is an ordered, information-rich genome scaffold, facilitating map-based cloning and genome assembly in perennial ryegrass and closely related Poaceae species. It also represents a milestone in describing synteny between perennial ryegrass and fully sequenced model grass genomes, thereby increasing our understanding of genome organization and evolution in the most important temperate forage and turf grass species.
Spartina species have a critical ecological role in salt marshes and represent an excellent system to investigate recurrent polyploid speciation. Using the 454 GS-FLX pyrosequencer, we assembled and annotated the first reference transcriptome (from roots and leaves) for two related hexaploid Spartina species that hybridize in Western Europe, the East American invasive Spartina alterniflora and the Euro-African S. maritima. The de novo read assembly generated 38 478 consensus sequences and 99% found an annotation using Poaceae databases, representing a total of 16 753 non-redundant genes. Spartina expressed sequence tags were mapped onto the Sorghum bicolor genome, where they were distributed among the subtelomeric arms of the 10 S. bicolor chromosomes, with high gene density correlation. Normalization of the complementary DNA library improved the number of annotated genes. Ecologically relevant genes were identified among GO biological function categories in salt and heavy metal stress response, C4 photosynthesis and in lignin and cellulose metabolism. Expression of some of these genes had been found to be altered by hybridization and genome duplication in a previous microarray-based study in Spartina. As these species are hexaploid, up to three duplicated homoeologs may be expected per locus. When analyzing sequence polymorphism at four different loci in S. maritima and S. alterniflora, we found up to four haplotypes per locus, suggesting the presence of two expressed homoeologous sequences with one or two allelic variants each. This reference transcriptome will allow analysis of specific Spartina genes of ecological or evolutionary interest, estimation of homoeologous gene expression variation using RNA-seq and further gene expression evolution analyses in natural populations.
Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi can increase the host resistance to pathogens via promoted phenolic synthesis, however, the signaling pathway responsible for it still remains unclear. In this study, in order to reveal the signaling molecules involved in this process, we inoculated Trifolium repense L. with an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus (AMF), Glomus mosseae, and monitored the contents of phenolics and signaling molecules (hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), salicylic acid (SA), and nitric oxide (NO)) in roots, measured the activities of l-phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS), and the expression of pal and chs genes. Results demonstrated that AMF colonization promoted the phenolic synthesis, in parallel with the increase in related enzyme activity and gene expression. Meanwhile, the accumulation of all three signaling molecules was also up-regulated by AMF. This study suggested that AMF increased the phenolic synthesis in roots probably via signaling pathways of H(2)O(2), SA and NO in a signaling cascade.
Spontaneous sequence changes and the selection of beneficial mutations are driving forces of gene diversification and key factors of evolution. In highly dynamic co-evolutionary processes such as plant-pathogen interactions, the plant's ability to rapidly adapt to newly emerging pathogens is paramount. The hexaploid wheat gene Lr34, which encodes an ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter, confers durable field resistance against four fungal diseases. Despite its extensive use in breeding and agriculture, no increase in virulence towards Lr34 has been described over the last century. The wheat genepool contains two predominant Lr34 alleles of which only one confers disease resistance. The two alleles, located on chromosome 7DS, differ by only two exon-polymorphisms. Putatively functional homoeologs and orthologs of Lr34 are found on the B-genome of wheat and in rice and sorghum, but not in maize, barley and Brachypodium. In this study we present a detailed haplotype analysis of homoeologous and orthologous Lr34 genes in genetically and geographically diverse selections of wheat, rice and sorghum accessions. We found that the resistant Lr34 haplotype is unique to the wheat D-genome and is not found in the B-genome of wheat or in rice and sorghum. Furthermore, we only found the susceptible Lr34 allele in a set of 252 Ae. tauschii genotypes, the progenitor of the wheat D-genome. These data provide compelling evidence that the Lr34 multi-pathogen resistance is the result of recent gene diversification occurring after the formation of hexaploid wheat about 8,000 years ago.
Brachypodium distachyon has been proposed as a new model for the temperate grass because it is related to the major cereal grain species (such as wheat, barley, oat, maize, rice, and sorghum) and many forage and turf species. In this study, a multivariate statistical analysis was performed to investigate the characteristics of codon bias and the main factors affecting synonymous codon usage in Brachypodium. We found that low- and high-GC content genes with different codon usage occur frequently in the genome. The results of neutrality, correspondence, and correlation analyses indicated that mutational pressure and selective constraint were the main factors in shaping codon usage. Coding sequence length and the hydrophobicity of each protein were also identified as influences on codon usage bias, although their effect was minor. In addition, 27 codons, defined as "optimal codons", might provide useful information for gene engineering, gene prediction, and molecular evolution studies.
In the leaves of most C(4) plants, mesophyll (M) and bundle sheath (BS) cells develop and maintain highly differentiated biochemical networks. Separation and analysis of M and BS cells has greatly influenced our understanding of the C(4) pathway. A number of approaches including mechanical separation, digestion with cell wall-degrading cocktails, laser-capture microdissection, and leaf rolling have been used to isolate these cell types. Although leaf rolling is conceptually and practically the simplest method, to date it has only been used to assess the metabolite content of M cells from C(4) leaves of maize. This study reports an adapted leaf-rolling method for the isolation of high-quality RNA from M cells of sorghum. Analysis of leaf cell structure, RNA integrity, and transcript abundance of marker genes demonstrated that the sap collected by leaf rolling was from M cells and had no significant contamination. It was concluded that leaf rolling is a fast, cheap, and efficient method of measuring transcript abundance in M cells of sorghum.
Transposable elements (TEs) account for a large portion of plant genomes, particularly in grasses, in which they correspond to 50%-80% of the genomic content. TEs have recently been shown to be a source of new genes and new regulatory networks. The most striking contribution of TEs is referred as "molecular domestication", by which the element coding sequence loses its movement capacity and acquires cellular function. Recently, domesticated transposases known as mustang and derived from the Mutator element have been described in sugarcane. In order to improve our understanding of the function of these proteins, we identified mustang genes from Sorghum bicolor and Zea mays and performed a phenetic analysis to assess the diversity and evolutionary history of this gene family. This analysis identified orthologous groups and showed that mustang genes are highly conserved in grass genomes. We also explored the transcriptional activity of sugarcane mustang genes in heterologous and homologous systems. These genes were found to be ubiquitously transcribed, with shoot apical meristem having the highest expression levels, and were downregulated by phytohormones. Together, these findings suggest the possible involvement of mustang proteins in the maintenance of hormonal homeostasis.
Cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) catalyses the final step of the monolignol biosynthesis, the conversion of cinnamyl aldehydes to alcohols, using NADPH as a cofactor. Seven members of the CAD gene family were identified in the genome of Brachypodium distachyon and five of these were isolated and cloned from genomic DNA. Semi-quantitative reverse-transcription PCR revealed differential expression of the cloned genes, with BdCAD5 being expressed in all tissues and highest in root and stem while BdCAD3 was only expressed in stem and spikes. A phylogenetic analysis of CAD-like proteins placed BdCAD5 on the same branch as bona fide CAD proteins from maize (ZmCAD2), rice (OsCAD2), sorghum (SbCAD2) and Arabidopsis (AtCAD4, 5). The predicted three-dimensional structures of both BdCAD3 and BdCAD5 resemble that of AtCAD5. However, the amino-acid residues in the substrate-binding domains of BdCAD3 and BdCAD5 are distributed symmetrically and BdCAD3 is similar to that of poplar sinapyl alcohol dehydrogenase (PotSAD). BdCAD3 and BdCAD5 expressed and purified from Escherichia coli both showed a temperature optimum of about 50 °C and molar weight of 49 kDa. The optimal pH for the reduction of coniferyl aldehyde were pH 5.2 and 6.2 and the pH for the oxidation of coniferyl alcohol were pH 8 and 9.5, for BdCAD3 and BdCAD5 respectively. Kinetic parameters for conversion of coniferyl aldehyde and coniferyl alcohol showed that BdCAD5 was clearly the most efficient enzyme of the two. These data suggest that BdCAD5 is the main CAD enzyme for lignin biosynthesis and that BdCAD3 has a different role in Brachypodium. All CAD enzymes are cytosolic except for BdCAD4, which has a putative chloroplast signal peptide adding to the diversity of CAD functions.
The potential contribution of upstream sequence variation to the unique features of orthologous genes is just beginning to be unraveled. A core subset of stress-associated bZIP transcription factors from rice (Oryza sativa) formed ten clusters of orthologous groups (COG) with genes from the monocot sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and dicot Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The total cis-regulatory information content of each stress-associated COG was examined by phylogenetic footprinting to reveal ortholog-specific, lineage-specific and species-specific conservation patterns. The most apparent pattern observed was the occurrence of spatially conserved 'core modules' among the COGs but not among paralogs. These core modules are comprised of various combinations of two to four putative transcription factor binding site (TFBS) classes associated with either developmental or stress-related functions. Outside the core modules are specific stress (ABA, oxidative, abiotic, biotic) or organ-associated signals, which may be functioning as 'regulatory fine-tuners' and further define lineage-specific and species-specific cis-regulatory signatures. Orthologous monocot and dicot promoters have distinct TFBS classes involved in disease and oxidative-regulated expression, while the orthologous rice and sorghum promoters have distinct combinations of root-specific signals, a pattern that is not particularly conserved in Arabidopsis. Patterns of cis-regulatory conservation imply that each ortholog has distinct signatures, further suggesting that they are potentially unique in a regulatory context despite the presumed conservation of broad biological function during speciation. Based on the observed patterns of conservation, we postulate that core modules are likely primary determinants of basal developmental programming, which may be integrated with and further elaborated by additional intrinsic or extrinsic signals in conjunction with lineage-specific or species-specific regulatory fine-tuners. This synergy may be critical for finer-scale spatio-temporal regulation, hence unique expression profiles of homologous transcription factors from different species with distinct zones of ecological adaptation such as rice, sorghum and Arabidopsis. The patterns revealed from these comparisons set the stage for further empirical validation by functional genomics.
Impaired root development caused by aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major cause of grain yield reduction in crops cultivated on acid soils, which are widespread worldwide. In sorghum, the major Al-tolerance locus, AltSB , is due to the function of SbMATE, which is an Al-activated root citrate transporter. Here we performed a molecular and physiological characterization of various AltSB donors and near-isogenic lines harboring various AltSB alleles. We observed a partial transfer of Al tolerance from the parents to the near-isogenic lines that was consistent across donor alleles, emphasizing the occurrence of strong genetic background effects related to AltSB . This reduction in tolerance was variable, with a 20% reduction being observed when highly Al-tolerant lines were the AltSB donors, and a reduction as great as 70% when other AltSB alleles were introgressed. This reduction in Al tolerance was closely correlated with a reduction in SbMATE expression in near-isogenic lines, suggesting incomplete transfer of loci acting in trans on SbMATE. Nevertheless, AltSB alleles from the highly Al-tolerant sources SC283 and SC566 were found to retain high SbMATE expression, presumably via elements present within or near the AltSB locus, resulting in significant transfer of the Al-tolerance phenotype to the derived near-isogenic lines. Allelic effects could not be explained by coding region polymorphisms, although occasional mutations may affect Al tolerance. Finally, we report on the extensive occurrence of alternative splicing for SbMATE, which may be an important component regulating SbMATE expression in sorghum by means of the nonsense-mediated RNA decay pathway.
Ultraconserved elements (UCEs), stretches of DNA that are identical between distantly related species, are enigmatic genomic features whose function is not well understood. First identified and characterized in mammals, UCEs have been proposed to play important roles in gene regulation, RNA processing, and maintaining genome integrity. However, because all of these functions can tolerate some sequence variation, their ultraconserved and ultraselected nature is not explained. We investigated whether there are highly conserved DNA elements without genic function in distantly related plant genomes. We compared the genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana and Vitis vinifera; species that diverged ∼115 million years ago (Mya). We identified 36 highly conserved elements with at least 85% similarity that are longer than 55 bp. Interestingly, these elements exhibit properties similar to mammalian UCEs, such that we named them UCE-like elements (ULEs). ULEs are located in intergenic or intronic regions and are depleted from segmental duplications. Like UCEs, ULEs are under strong purifying selection, suggesting a functional role for these elements. As their mammalian counterparts, ULEs show a sharp drop of A+T content at their borders and are enriched close to genes encoding transcription factors and genes involved in development, the latter showing preferential expression in undifferentiated tissues. By comparing the genomes of Brachypodium distachyon and Oryza sativa, species that diverged ∼50 Mya, we identified a different set of ULEs with similar properties in monocots. The identification of ULEs in plant genomes offers new opportunities to study their possible roles in genome function, integrity, and regulation.
A pair of GOLDEN2-LIKE transcription factors is required for normal chloroplast development in land plant species that encompass the range from bryophytes to angiosperms. In the C(4) plant maize, compartmentalized function of the two GLK genes in bundle sheath and mesophyll cells regulates dimorphic chloroplast differentiation, whereas in the C(3) plants Physcomitrella patens and Arabidopsis thaliana the genes act redundantly in all photosynthetic cells. To assess whether the cell-specific function of GLK genes is unique to maize, we analyzed gene expression patterns in the C(4) monocot Sorghum bicolor and C(4) eudicot Cleome gynandra. Compartmentalized expression was observed in S. bicolor, consistent with the development of dimorphic chloroplasts in this species, but not in C. gynandra where bundle sheath and mesophyll chloroplasts are morphologically similar. The generation of single and double mutants demonstrated that GLK genes function redundantly in rice, as in other C(3) plants, despite the fact that GLK gene duplication in monocots preceded the speciation of rice, maize and sorghum. Together with phylogenetic analyses of GLK gene sequences, these data have allowed speculation on the evolutionary trajectory of GLK function. Based on current evidence, most species that retain single GLK genes belong to orders that contain only C(3) species. We therefore propose that the ancestral state is a single GLK gene, and hypothesize that GLK gene duplication enabled sub-functionalization, which in turn enabled cell-specific function in C(4) plants with dimorphic chloroplasts. In this scenario, GLK gene duplication preconditioned the evolution of C(4) physiology that is associated with chloroplast dimorphism.
The plant hormone auxin plays a vital role in regulating many aspects of plant growth and development. Small auxin up-regulated RNAs (SAURs) are primary auxin response genes hypothesized to be involved in auxin signaling pathway, but their functions remain unclear. Here, a genome-wide search for SAUR gene homologues in Solanaceae species identified 99 and 134 members of SAUR gene family from tomato and potato, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the SAUR proteins from Arabidopsis, rice, sorghum, tomato and potato were divided into four major groups with 16 subgroups. Among them, 25 histidine-rich SAURs genes with metal-binding characteristics were found in Arabidopsis, sorghum and Solanaceae species, but not in rice. Using tomato as a model, a comprehensive overview of SAUR gene family is presented, including the gene structures, phylogeny and chromosome locations. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis indicated that 11 randomly selected SlSAUR genes in tomato could be expressed at least in one of the tomato organs/tissues tested. However, different SlSAUR genes displayed distinctive expression levels. SlSAUR16 and SlSAUR71 exhibited highly tissue-specific expression patterns. Almost all of the detected SlSAURs showed an accumulating pattern of mRNA along tomato flower and fruit development. Some of them displayed differential response to exogenous IAA treatment. The abiotic (cold, salt and drought) stresses significantly modified transcript levels of SlSAURs genes. Most of them were down-regulated in response to abiotic stresses (drought, heat and salinity), but SlSAUR58, as a histidine-rich SAUR gene, was up-regulated after salt treatment, indicating that it may play a specific role in the salt signaling transduction pathway. Our comparative analysis provides some basic genomic information for the SAUR genes in the Solanaceae species and will pave the way for deciphering their function during plant development.
Plant stilbenes are a small group of phenylpropanoids, which have been detected in at least 72 unrelated plant species and accumulate in response to biotic and abiotic stresses such as infection, wounding, UV-C exposure and treatment with chemicals. Stilbenes are formed via the phenylalanine/polymalonate-route, the last step of which is catalyzed by the enzyme stilbene synthase (STS), a type III polyketide synthase (PKS). Stilbene synthases are closely related to chalcone synthases (CHS), the key enzymes of the flavonoid pathway, as illustrated by the fact that both enzymes share the same substrates. To date, STSs have been cloned from peanut, pine, sorghum and grapevine, the only stilbene-producing fruiting-plant for which the entire genome has been sequenced. Apart from sorghum, STS genes appear to exist as a family of closely related genes in these other plant species. In this study a complete characterization of the STS multigenic family in grapevine has been performed, commencing with the identification, annotation and phylogenetic analysis of all members and integration of this information with a comprehensive set of gene expression analyses including healthy tissues at differential developmental stages and in leaves exposed to both biotic (downy mildew infection) and abiotic (wounding and UV-C exposure) stresses. At least thirty-three full length sequences encoding VvSTS genes were identified, which, based on predicted amino acid sequences, cluster in 3 principal groups designated A, B and C. The majority of VvSTS genes cluster in groups B and C and are located on chr16 whereas the few gene family members in group A are found on chr10. Microarray and mRNA-seq expression analyses revealed different patterns of transcript accumulation between the different groups of VvSTS family members and between VvSTSs and VvCHSs. Indeed, under certain conditions the transcriptional response of VvSTS and VvCHS genes appears to be diametrically opposed suggesting that flow of carbon between these two competing metabolic pathways is tightly regulated at the transcriptional level. This study represents an overview of the expression pattern of each member of the STS gene family in grapevine under both constitutive and stress-induced conditions. The results strongly indicate the existence of a transcriptional subfunctionalization amongst VvSTSs and provide the foundation for further functional investigations about the role and evolution of this large gene family. Moreover, it represents the first study to clearly show the differential regulation of VvCHS and VvSTS genes, suggesting the involvement of transcription factors (TFs) in both the activation and repression of these genes.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) is a rich source of natural phytochemicals. We performed massive parallel sequencing of mRNA to identify differentially expressed genes after sorghum BTx623 had been infected with Bipolaris sorghicola, a necrotrophic fungus causing a sorghum disease called target leaf spot. Seventy-six-base-pair reads from mRNAs of mock- or pathogen-infected leaves were sequenced. Unannotated transcripts were predicted on the basis of the piling-up of mapped short reads. Differentially expressed genes were identified statistically; particular genes in tandemly duplicated putative paralogs were highly upregulated. Pathogen infection activated the glyoxylate shunt in the TCA cycle; this changes the role of the TCA cycle from energy production to synthesis of cell components. The secondary metabolic pathways of phytoalexin synthesis and of sulfur-dependent detoxification were activated by upregulation of the genes encoding amino acid metabolizing enzymes located at the branch point between primary and secondary metabolism. Coordinated gene expression could guide the metabolic pathway for accumulation of the sorghum-specific phytochemicals 3-deoxyanthocyanidin and dhurrin. Key enzymes for synthesizing these sorghum-specific phytochemicals were not found in the corresponding region of the rice genome. Pathogen infection dramatically changed the expression of particular paralogs that putatively encode enzymes involved in the sorghum-specific metabolic network.
Cancer is one of the highly virulent diseases known to humankind with a high mortality rate. Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women worldwide. Sorghum is a principal cereal food in many parts of the world, and is critical in folk medicine of Asia and Africa. In the present study, we analyzed the effects of HSE in metastatic breast cancer. Preliminary studies conducted on MDA-MB 231 and MCF-7 xenograft models showed tumor growth suppression by HSE. Western blotting studies conducted both in vivo and in vitro to check the effect of HSE in Jak/STAT pathways. Anti-metastatic effects of HSE were confirmed using both MDA-MB 231 and MCF-7 metastatic animal models. These studies showed that HSE can modulate Jak/STAT pathways, and it hindered the STAT5b/IGF-1R and STAT3/VEGF pathways not only by down-regulating the expression of these signal molecules and but also by preventing their phosphorylation. The expression of angiogenic factors like VEGF, VEGF-R2 and cell cycle regulators like cyclin D, cyclin E, and pRb were found down-regulated by HSE. In addition, it also targets Brk, p53, and HIF-1α for anti-cancer effects. HSE induced G1 phase arrest and migration inhibition in MDA-MB 231 cells. The metastasis of breast cancer to the lungs also found blocked by HSE in the metastatic animal model. Usage of HS as a dietary supplement is an inexpensive natural cancer therapy, without any side effects. We strongly recommend the use of HS as an edible therapeutic agent as it possesses tumor suppression, migration inhibition, and anti-metastatic effects on breast cancer.
In the present study, expression patterns of two different wheat cystatins (WCs) were studied under the influence of jasmonate signaling in triggering resistance against Karnal bunt (KB). Cystatins are cysteine proteinase inhibitors (CPI) constituting a multigene family which regulate the activity of endo- and/or exogenous cysteine proteinases (CP). Two wheat varieties HD-29 (resistant, R) and WH-542 (susceptible, S) were pre-conditioned with jasmonate and then artificially inoculated with sporidial suspension of Tilletia indica to study its influence in inducing defense by regulating cystatin genes. On the transcriptional level, WC4 and WC5 gave different temporal expression patterns. Expression of WC4 was higher in boot emergence stage which is most susceptible to KB and then slowly declined in both varieties. Expression of WC5 showed an entirely reverse pattern of expression, which kept on rising as the grains matured. Cystatin activity determination by inhibitor assay gave higher activity in resistant variety and under JA treatment. Estimation of specific activity of total cystatin at different days after inoculation (DAI) showed that JA positively induced cystatin expression in both varieties but R variety always registered a greater cystatin expression than the susceptible one (P<0.05). In plants inoculated with pathogen, initially there was a rise in cystatin activity which gradually decreased 7 DAI when compared with the un-inoculated plants. Based on these findings it is clearly demonstrated that jasmonate acts as a potential activator of induced resistance by up-regulating cystatin expression and provides the conditioning effect prior to infection through the maintenance of critical balance of CP/CPI interaction. However, different cystatin genes show different temporal expression patterns and may play different roles at various developmental stages of the grain.
MicroRNA-regulation of gene expression plays a key role in the development and response to biotic and abiotic stresses. Deep sequencing analyses accelerate the process of small RNA discovery in many plants and expand our understanding of miRNA-regulated processes. We therefore undertook small RNA sequencing of sugarcane miRNAs in order to understand their complexity and to explore their role in sugarcane biology. A bioinformatics search was carried out to discover novel miRNAs that can be regulated in sugarcane plants submitted to drought and salt stresses, and under pathogen infection. By means of the presence of miRNA precursors in the related sorghum genome, we identified 623 candidates of new mature miRNAs in sugarcane. Of these, 44 were classified as high confidence miRNAs. The biological function of the new miRNAs candidates was assessed by analyzing their putative targets. The set of bona fide sugarcane miRNA includes those likely targeting serine/threonine kinases, Myb and zinc finger proteins. Additionally, a MADS-box transcription factor and an RPP2B protein, which act in development and disease resistant processes, could be regulated by cleavage (21-nt-species) and DNA methylation (24-nt-species), respectively. A large scale investigation of sRNA in sugarcane using a computational approach has identified a substantial number of new miRNAs and provides detailed genotype-tissue-culture miRNA expression profiles. Comparative analysis between monocots was valuable to clarify aspects about conservation of miRNA and their targets in a plant whose genome has not yet been sequenced. Our findings contribute to knowledge of miRNA roles in regulatory pathways in the complex, polyploidy sugarcane genome.
The date palm (Phoenix dactylifera L.), famed for its sugar-rich fruits (dates) and cultivated by humans since 4,000 B.C., is an economically important crop in the Middle East, Northern Africa, and increasingly other places where climates are suitable. Despite a long history of human cultivation, the understanding of P. dactylifera genetics and molecular biology are rather limited, hindered by lack of basic data in high quality from genomics and transcriptomics. Here we report a large-scale effort in generating gene models (assembled expressed sequence tags or ESTs and mapped to a genome assembly) for P. dactylifera, using the long-read pyrosequencing platform (Roche/454 GS FLX Titanium) in high coverage. We built fourteen cDNA libraries from different P. dactylifera tissues (cultivar Khalas) and acquired 15,778,993 raw sequencing reads-about one million sequencing reads per library-and the pooled sequences were assembled into 67,651 non-redundant contigs and 301,978 singletons. We annotated 52,725 contigs based on the plant databases and 45 contigs based on functional domains referencing to the Pfam database. From the annotated contigs, we assigned GO (Gene Ontology) terms to 36,086 contigs and KEGG pathways to 7,032 contigs. Our comparative analysis showed that 70.6 % (47,930), 69.4 % (47,089), 68.4 % (46,441), and 69.3 % (47,048) of the P. dactylifera gene models are shared with rice, sorghum, Arabidopsis, and grapevine, respectively. We also assigned our gene models into house-keeping and tissue-specific genes based on their tissue specificity.
The Asian corn borer, Ostrinia furnacalis, is a serious pest of corn, sorghum, and cotton in China and other Asian countries. The present study is the first attempt to establish the transgenic line in O. furnacalis using a piggyBac transposon, which will shed light on the future genetic control of O. furnacalis. A piggyBac vector pBac[A3EGFP] was constructed to express enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP)under the control of Bombyx mori actin3 promoter. Transient EGFP expression was detected 48 h after preblastodermic microinjection of pBac[A3EGFP] and the excision assay showed the transgenic vector was precisely excised. In G1 animals, PCR (polymerase chain reaction)-based investigations revealed that the exogenous gene had been introduced into O. furnacalis genome and expressed at the transcriptional level. Western blot analysis showed EGFP expression at the protein level, indicating the heritability of the transgene.
Carotenoids are isoprenoid pigments, essential for photosynthesis and photoprotection in plants. The enzyme phytoene synthase (PSY) plays an essential role in mediating condensation of two geranylgeranyl diphosphate molecules, the first committed step in carotenogenesis. PSY are nuclear enzymes encoded by a small gene family consisting of three paralogous genes (PSY1-3) that have been widely characterized in rice, maize and sorghum. In wheat, for which yellow pigment content is extremely important for flour colour, only PSY1 has been extensively studied because of its association with QTLs reported for yellow pigment whereas PSY2 has been partially characterized. Here, we report the isolation of bread wheat PSY3 genes from a Renan BAC library using Brachypodium as a model genome for the Triticeae to develop Conserved Orthologous Set markers prior to gene cloning and sequencing. Wheat PSY3 homoeologous genes were sequenced and annotated, unravelling their novel structure associated with intron-loss events and consequent exonic fusions. A wheat PSY3 promoter region was also investigated for the presence of cis-acting elements involved in the response to abscisic acid (ABA), since carotenoids also play an important role as precursors of signalling molecules devoted to plant development and biotic/abiotic stress responses. Expression of wheat PSYs in leaves and roots was investigated during ABA treatment to confirm the up-regulation of PSY3 during abiotic stress. We investigated the structural and functional determinisms of PSY genes in wheat. More generally, among eudicots and monocots, the PSY gene family was found to be associated with differences in gene copy numbers, allowing us to propose an evolutionary model for the entire PSY gene family in Grasses.
The smut fungus Sporisorium reilianum occurs in two varieties (S. reilianum f. sp. reilianum and S. reilianum f. sp. zeae) that cause head smut disease on sorghum and maize, respectively. Prior to plant infection, compatible haploid sporidia of S. reilianum fuse to form infectious dikaryotic hyphae that penetrate the leaf surface, spread throughout the plant, and reach the inflorescences, in which spore formation occurs. To elucidate the basis of host specificity of the two S. reilianum varieties, we compared disease etiology of S. reilianum f. sp. reilianum and S. reilianum f. sp. zeae on sorghum and maize. Both varieties could penetrate and multiply in both hosts. However, red spots appeared on inoculated leaves after sorghum infection with S. reilianum f. sp. zeae. Using matrix-assisted laser desorption-ionization time of flight analysis of leaf extracts, we show that sorghum reacts with the production of the red and orange phytoalexins luteolinidin and apigeninidin upon colonization by S. reilianum f. sp. zeae but not by S. reilianum f. sp. reilianum. Using in vitro growth assays, we demonstrate that luteolinidin but not apigeninidin slows vegetative growth of both S. reilianum f. sp. zeae and S. reilianum f. sp. reilianum. However, the phytoalexin biosynthesis gene SbDFR3 is only induced in sorghum after infection with S. reilianum f. sp. zeae, as shown by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. This suggests that regulation of luteolinidin biosynthesis determines infection success of S. reilianum on sorghum.
Raffinose family oligosaccharides (RFOs) in food are considered anti-nutritional factors. This study elucidated the role of α-galactosidase (α-Gal), levansucrase, and sucrose phosphorylase for conversion of RFOs by lactobacilli. Quantification of gene expression by reverse-transcriptase quantitative PCR revealed that expression of levansucrase and sucrose phosphorylase by Lactobacillus reuteri is increased more than 100 fold when sucrose or raffinose are available. Fava bean (Vicia faba) or field pea (Pisum sativum) flours were fermented with α-Gal positive L. reuteri or α-Gal negative Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis. Isogenic strains lacking levansucrase activity, a L. reuteri ftfA mutant and a L. sanfranciscensis levS mutant, were used for comparison. During growth in pulse flours, L. sanfranciscensis accumulated melibiose and α-galactooligosaccharides (α-GOSs); the levansucrase-negative strain did not grow. L. reuteri metabolized raffinose, stachyose, and verbascose by levansucrase activity and accumulated α-GOSs as metabolic intermediates. Oligosaccharide metabolism in the levansucrase-negative mutant was slower, and accumulation of α-GOSs was not observed. The use of sorghum sourdough fermented with L. reuteri LTH5448 and bean flour in gluten-free baking converted RFOs to α-GOSs by levansucrase and invertase activities. In conclusion, the elucidation of the role levansucrase in RFO metabolism by lactobacilli allowed the conversion or hydrolysis of RFOs in food fermentations.
A key step during crop domestication is the loss of seed shattering. Here, we show that seed shattering in sorghum is controlled by a single gene, Shattering1 (Sh1), which encodes a YABBY transcription factor. Domesticated sorghums harbor three different mutations at the Sh1 locus. Variants at regulatory sites in the promoter and intronic regions lead to a low level of expression, a 2.2-kb deletion causes a truncated transcript that lacks exons 2 and 3, and a GT-to-GG splice-site variant in the intron 4 results in removal of the exon 4. The distributions of these non-shattering haplotypes among sorghum landraces suggest three independent origins. The function of the rice ortholog (OsSh1) was subsequently validated with a shattering-resistant mutant, and two maize orthologs (ZmSh1-1 and ZmSh1-5.1+ZmSh1-5.2) were verified with a large mapping population. Our results indicate that Sh1 genes for seed shattering were under parallel selection during sorghum, rice and maize domestication.
Sorghum, a species able to produce a high yield of biomass and tolerate both drought and poor soil fertility, is considered to be a potential bioenergy crop candidate. The reduced lignin content characteristic of brown midrib (bmr) mutants improves the efficiency of bioethanol conversion from biomass. Suppression subtractive hybridization combined with cDNA microarray profiling was performed to characterize differential gene expression in a set of 13 bmr mutants, which accumulate significantly less lignin than the wild-type plant BTx623. Among the 153 differentially expressed genes identified, 43 were upregulated and 110 downregulated in the mutants. A semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis applied to 12 of these genes largely validated the microarray analysis data. The transcript abundance of genes encoding l-phenylalanine ammonia lyase and cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase was less in the mutants than in the wild type, consistent with the expectation that both enzymes are associated with lignin synthesis. However, the gene responsible for the lignin synthesis enzyme cinnamic acid 4-hydroxylase was upregulated in the mutants, indicating that the production of monolignol from l-phenylalanine may involve more than one pathway. The identity of the differentially expressed genes could be useful for breeding sorghum with improved efficiency of bioethanol conversion from lignocellulosic biomass.
Expression of elements of apomixis was studied for ten seasons in sorghum line AS-la and its backcross hybrids on the 9E and A3 sterile cytoplasms. Cytoembryological analysis revealed aposporous embryo sacks (apo-ESs), their initial cells, and, rare, parthenogeneic proembryos in ovules of line AS-la and its BC2 and BC3 hybrids on the 9E cytoplasm. The A3 sterile cytoplasm suppressed the development of parthenogenetic proembryos, but did not affect the apo-ES formation. The frequency of apomictic elements increased in seasons with high daily temperatures and total precipitation deficiency in the period when the ovule and megagametophyte developed (r = -0.805, P < 0.01). Selection was used to isolate the families where the frequency of ovules with apo-ESs was 28% and the frequency of parthenogenetic proembryos was 14%. Emasculated panicles of line AS-la were pollinated with pollen of line Volzhskoe-4v, which carried the Rs marker dominant gene, responsible for the anthocyan color of coleoptyles and leaves in seedlings. Plants of the maternal type were found in the progenies of these crosses at a frequency of 1.4-28.1%. The genetic structure of the endosperm in grains with maternal-type seedlings was inferred from the electrophoretic patterns of storage proteins (kafirins). The kafirin spectra of grains producing maternal-type seedlings was similar to the spectrum of line AS-la and differed from the spectra of grains producing hybrid seedlings, indicating that the endosperm developed independently when apomictic grains formed in line AS-1a. The results showed that lines with facultative apomixis can be constructed in functionally diploid plants.
Miscanthus (subtribe Saccharinae, tribe Andropogoneae, family Poaceae) is a genus of temperate perennial C4 grasses whose high biomass production makes it, along with its close relatives sugarcane and sorghum, attractive as a biofuel feedstock. The base chromosome number of Miscanthus (x = 19) is different from that of other Saccharinae and approximately twice that of the related Sorghum bicolor (x = 10), suggesting large-scale duplications may have occurred in recent ancestors of Miscanthus. Owing to the complexity of the Miscanthus genome and the complications of self-incompatibility, a complete genetic map with a high density of markers has not yet been developed. We used deep transcriptome sequencing (RNAseq) from two M. sinensis accessions to define 1536 single nucleotide variants (SNVs) for a GoldenGate™ genotyping array, and found that simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers defined in sugarcane are often informative in M. sinensis. A total of 658 SNP and 210 SSR markers were validated via segregation in a full sibling F1 mapping population. Using 221 progeny from this mapping population, we constructed a genetic map for M. sinensis that resolves into 19 linkage groups, the haploid chromosome number expected from cytological evidence. Comparative genomic analysis documents a genome-wide duplication in Miscanthus relative to Sorghum bicolor, with subsequent insertional fusion of a pair of chromosomes. The utility of the map is confirmed by the identification of two paralogous C4-pyruvate, phosphate dikinase (C4-PPDK) loci in Miscanthus, at positions syntenic to the single orthologous gene in Sorghum. The genus Miscanthus experienced an ancestral tetraploidy and chromosome fusion prior to its diversification, but after its divergence from the closely related sugarcane clade. The recent timing of this tetraploidy complicates discovery and mapping of genetic markers for Miscanthus species, since alleles and fixed differences between paralogs are comparable. These difficulties can be overcome by careful analysis of segregation patterns in a mapping population and genotyping of doubled haploids. The genetic map for Miscanthus will be useful in biological discovery and breeding efforts to improve this emerging biofuel crop, and also provide a valuable resource for understanding genomic responses to tetraploidy and chromosome fusion.
Multicellular eukaryotes demonstrate nongenetic, heritable phenotypic versatility in their adaptation to environmental changes. This inclusive inheritance is composed of interacting epigenetic, maternal, and environmental factors. Yet-unidentified maternal effects can have a pronounced influence on plant phenotypic adaptation to changing environmental conditions. To explore the control of phenotypy in higher plants, we examined the effect of a single plant nuclear gene on the expression and transmission of phenotypic variability in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). MutS HOMOLOG1 (MSH1) is a plant-specific nuclear gene product that functions in both mitochondria and plastids to maintain genome stability. RNA interference suppression of the gene elicits strikingly similar programmed changes in plant growth pattern in six different plant species, changes subsequently heritable independent of the RNA interference transgene. The altered phenotypes reflect multiple pathways that are known to participate in adaptation, including altered phytohormone effects for dwarfed growth and reduced internode elongation, enhanced branching, reduced stomatal density, altered leaf morphology, delayed flowering, and extended juvenility, with conversion to perennial growth pattern in short days. Some of these effects are partially reversed with the application of gibberellic acid. Genetic hemicomplementation experiments show that this phenotypic plasticity derives from changes in chloroplast state. Our results suggest that suppression of MSH1, which occurs under several forms of abiotic stress, triggers a plastidial response process that involves nongenetic inheritance.
Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) is a C4 perennial grass and widely popular as an important bioenergy crop. To accelerate the pace of developing high yielding switchgrass cultivars adapted to diverse environmental niches, the generation of genomic resources for this plant is necessary. The large genome size and polyploid nature of switchgrass makes whole genome sequencing a daunting task even with current technologies. Exploring the transcriptional landscape using next generation sequencing technologies provides a viable alternative to whole genome sequencing in switchgrass. Switchgrass cDNA libraries from germinating seedlings, emerging tillers, flowers, and dormant seeds were sequenced using Roche 454 GS-FLX Titanium technology, generating 980,000 reads with an average read length of 367 bp. De novo assembly generated 243,600 contigs with an average length of 535 bp. Using the foxtail millet genome as a reference greatly improved the assembly and annotation of switchgrass ESTs. Comparative analysis of the 454-derived switchgrass EST reads with other sequenced monocots including Brachypodium, sorghum, rice and maize indicated a 70-80% overlap. RPKM analysis demonstrated unique transcriptional signatures of the four tissues analyzed in this study. More than 24,000 ESTs were identified in the dormant seed library. In silico analysis indicated that there are more than 2000 EST-SSRs in this collection. Expression of several orphan ESTs was confirmed by RT-PCR. We estimate that about 90% of the switchgrass gene space has been covered in this analysis. This study nearly doubles the amount of EST information for switchgrass currently in the public domain. The celerity and economical nature of second-generation sequencing technologies provide an in-depth view of the gene space of complex genomes like switchgrass. Sequence analysis of closely related members of the NAD(+)-malic enzyme type C4 grasses such as the model system Setaria viridis can serve as a viable proxy for the switchgrass genome.
Drought is a major constraint to maintaining yield stability of wheat in rain fed and limited irrigation agro-ecosystems. Genetic improvement for drought tolerance in wheat has been difficult due to quantitative nature of the trait involving multiple genes with variable effects and lack of effective selection strategies employing molecular markers. Here, a framework molecular linkage map was constructed using 173 DNA markers randomly distributed over the 21 wheat chromosomes. Grain yield and other drought-responsive shoot and root traits were phenotyped for 2 years under drought stress and well-watered conditions on a mapping population of recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between drought-sensitive semidwarf variety "WL711" and drought-tolerant traditional variety "C306". Thirty-seven genomics region were identified for 10 drought-related traits at 18 different chromosomal locations but most of these showed small inconsistent effects. A consistent genomic region associated with drought susceptibility index (qDSI.4B.1) was mapped on the short arm of chromosome 4B, which also controlled grain yield per plant, harvest index, and root biomass under drought. Transcriptome profiling of the parents and two RIL bulks with extreme phenotypes revealed five genes underlying this genomic region that were differentially expressed between the parents as well as the two RIL bulks, suggesting that they are likely candidates for drought tolerance. Syntenic genomic regions of barley, rice, sorghum, and maize genomes were identified that also harbor genes for drought tolerance. Markers tightly linked to this genomic region in combination with other important regions on group 7 chromosomes may be used in marker-assisted breeding for drought tolerance in wheat.
The Poaceae family, also known as the grasses, includes agronomically important cereal crops such as rice, maize, sorghum, and wheat. Previous comparative studies have shown that much of the gene content is shared among the grasses; however, functional conservation of orthologous genes has yet to be explored. To gain an understanding of the genome-wide patterns of evolution of gene expression across reproductive tissues, we employed a sequence-based approach to compare analogous transcriptomes in species representing three Poaceae subgroups including the Pooideae (Brachypodium distachyon), the Panicoideae (sorghum), and the Ehrhartoideae (rice). Our transcriptome analyses reveal that only a fraction of orthologous genes exhibit conserved expression patterns. A high proportion of conserved orthologs include genes that are upregulated in physiologically similar tissues such as leaves, anther, pistil, and embryo, while orthologs that are highly expressed in seeds show the most diverged expression patterns. More generally, we show that evolution of gene expression profiles and coding sequences in the grasses may be linked. Genes that are highly and broadly expressed tend to be conserved at the coding sequence level while genes with narrow expression patterns show accelerated rates of sequence evolution. We further show that orthologs in syntenic genomic blocks are more likely to share correlated expression patterns compared with non-syntenic orthologs. These findings are important for agricultural improvement because sequence information is transferred from model species, such as Brachypodium, rice, and sorghum to crop plants without sequenced genomes.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression mainly by post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) and in some cases by transcriptional genes silencing (TGS). miRNAs play critical roles in developmental processes, nutrient homeostasis, abiotic stress and pathogen responses of plants. In contrast to the large number of miRNAs predicted in cereal model plant rice, only 148 miRNAs were predicted in sorghum till date (miRBase release 17). This suggested that miRNAs identified in sorghum is far from saturation. Hence, we developed a bioinformatics pipeline using an in-house PERL script and publicly available structure prediction tools to identify miRNAs and their target genes from publically available Expressed Sequence Tags (EST) and Genomic Survey Sequence (GSS). About 1379 known and unique plant miRNAs from 33 different crops were used to predict new miRNAs in sorghum. We identified 31 new miRNAs belonging to 10 different miRNA families. We predicted 72 potential target genes for 31 miRNAs, and most of these target genes are predicted to be involved in plant growth and development.These newly identified miRNAs add to the growing database of miRNA and lay the foundation for further understanding of miRNA function in sorghum plant development.
Phylogenetic analysis was conducted on 9 kDa non-specific lipid transfer protein (nsLTP) genes from nine plant species. Each of the five classified types in angiosperms exhibited eight conserved cysteine patterns. The most abundant nsLTP genes fell into the type I category, which was particularly enriched in a grass-specific lineage of clade I.1. Six pairs of tandem copies of nsLTP genes on the distal region of rice chromosomes 11 and 12 were well-preserved under concerted evolution, which was not observed in sorghum. The transgenic promoter-reporter assay revealed that both rice and sorghum nsLTP genes of type I displayed a relatively conserved expression feature in the epidermis of growing tissue, supporting its functional roles in cutin synthesis or defence against phytopathogens. For type I, the frequent expression in the stigma and seed are indicative of functional involvement in pistil-pollen interactions and seed development. By way of contrast, several type V genes were observed, mainly in the vascular bundle of the rosette as well as the young shoots, which might be related with vascular tissue differentiation or defence signalling. Compared with sorghum, the highly redundant tissue-specific expression pattern among members of rice nsLTP genes in clade I.1 suggests that concerted evolution via gene conversion favours the preservation of crucial expression motifs via the homogenization of proximal promoter sequences under high selection constraints. However, extensive regulatory subfunctionalization might also have occurred under relative low selection constraints, resulting in functional divergence at the expression level.
LTR retrotransposons are often the most abundant components of plant genomes and can impact gene and genome evolution. Most reported LTR retrotransposons are large elements (>4 kb) and are most often found in heterochromatic (gene poor) regions. We report the smallest LTR retrotransposon found to date, only 292 bp. The element is found in rice, maize, sorghum and other grass genomes, which indicates that it was present in the ancestor of grass species, at least 50-80 MYA. Estimated insertion times, comparisons between sequenced rice lines, and mRNA data indicate that this element may still be active in some genomes. Unlike other LTR retrotransposons, the small LTR retrotransposons (SMARTs) are distributed throughout the genomes and are often located within or near genes with insertion patterns similar to MITEs (miniature inverted repeat transposable elements). Our data suggests that insertions of SMARTs into or near genes can, in a few instances, alter both gene structures and gene expression. Further evidence for a role in regulating gene expression, SMART-specific small RNAs (sRNAs) were identified that may be involved in gene regulation. Thus, SMARTs may have played an important role in genome evolution and genic innovation and may provide a valuable tool for gene tagging systems in grass.
Sorghum prolamins, termed kafirins, are categorized into subgroups α, β, and γ. The kafirins are co-translationally translocated to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) where they are assembled into discrete protein bodies that tend to be poorly digestible with low functionality in food and feed applications. As a means to address the issues surrounding functionality and digestibility in sorghum, we employed a biotechnology approach that is designed to alter protein body structure, with the concomitant synthesis of a co-protein in the endosperm fraction of the grain. Wherein perturbation of protein body architecture may provide a route to impact digestibility by reducing disulphide bonds about the periphery of the body, while synthesis of a co-protein, with known functionality attributes, theoretically could impact structure of the protein body through direct association and/or augment end-use applications of sorghum flour by stabilizing ß-sheet formation of the kafirins in sorghum dough preparations. This in turn may improve viscoelasticity of sorghum dough. To this end, we report here on the molecular and phenotypic characterizations of transgenic sorghum events that are down-regulated in γ- and the 29-kDa α-kafirins and the expression of a wheat Dy10/Dx 5 hybrid high-molecular weight glutenin protein. The results demonstrate that down-regulation of γ-kafirin alone does not alter protein body formation or impacts protein digestibility of cooked flour samples. However, reduction in accumulation of a predicted 29-kDa α-kafirin alters the morphology of protein body and enhances protein digestibility in both raw and cooked samples.
Gene duplication and the subsequent divergence in function of the resulting paralogs via subfunctionalization and/or neofunctionalization is hypothesized to have played a major role in the evolution of plant form. The LEAFY HULL STERILE1 (LHS1) SEPALLATA (SEP) genes have been linked with the origin and diversification of the grass spikelet, but it is uncertain 1) when the duplication event that produced the LHS1 clade and its paralogous lineage Oryza sativa MADS5 (OSM5) occurred, and 2) how changes in gene structure and/or expression might have contributed to subfunctionalization and/or neofunctionalization in the two lineages. Phylogenetic relationships among 84 SEP genes were estimated using Bayesian methods. RNA expression patterns were inferred using in situ hybridization. The patterns of protein sequence and RNA expression evolution were reconstructed using maximum parsimony (MP) and maximum likelihood (ML) methods, respectively. Phylogenetic analyses mapped the LHS1/OSM5 duplication event to the base of the grass family. MP character reconstructions estimated a change from cytosine to thymine in the first codon position of the first amino acid after the Zea mays MADS3 (ZMM3) domain converted a glutamine to a stop codon in the OSM5 ancestor following the LHS1/OSM5 duplication event. RNA expression analyses of OSM5 co-orthologs in Avena sativa, Chasmanthium latifolium, Hordeum vulgare, Pennisetum glaucum, and Sorghum bicolor followed by ML reconstructions of these data and previously published analyses estimated a complex pattern of gain and loss of LHS1 and OSM5 expression in different floral organs and different flowers within the spikelet or inflorescence. Previous authors have reported that rice OSM5 and LHS1 proteins have different interaction partners indicating that the truncation of OSM5 following the LHS1/OSM5 duplication event has resulted in both partitioned and potentially novel gene functions. The complex pattern of OSM5 and LHS1 expression evolution is not consistent with a simple subfunctionalization model following the gene duplication event, but there is evidence of recent partitioning of OSM5 and LHS1 expression within different floral organs of A. sativa, C. latifolium, P. glaucum and S. bicolor, and between the upper and lower florets of the two-flowered maize spikelet.
Sugar metabolism was studied in sweet sorghum (SSV74) that is known to store sugars in the mature internodes and which is reported to give grain yields twice that of a grain sorghum variety (SPV1616). Comparison of sugar accumulation in these two varieties was carried out at three stages of growth and in the upper and lower internodes. In spite of large differences in the level of sugar accumulation, osmolarity of the sap did not vary as significantly in the two varieties. Significant contribution of variety, stage and internode position was seen for the variation observed in sugar content. Though the activities of sugar metabolizing enzymes namely sucrose synthase (in the synthesis and cleavage directions), sucrose phosphate synthase and invertase (cytoplasmic and vacuolar) also varied in a stage- and internode-specific manner in the two varieties, these enzymes did not contribute significantly to the variation observed in sugar content. Transcriptional expression of one sucrose synthase (SUC1), two sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS2 and SPS3) and a vacuolar invertase (INV3) gene were lower in sweet sorghum as compared to grain sorghum. Sweet sorghum also showed lower expression of two sucrose transporters (SUT1 and SUT4), which correlated to higher sugar accumulation in this variety. Differential expression of the sugar metabolizing enzymes and sucrose transporters in sweet and grain sorghum suggest a role for signaling molecules and transcription factors in regulating sugar accumulation observed in the mature internodes of sweet sorghum, which needs to be investigated.
Regulatory sequences with endosperm specificity are essential for foreign gene expression in the desired tissue for both grain quality improvement and molecular pharming. In this study, promoters of seed storage α-kafirin genes coupled with signal sequence (ss) were isolated from Sorghum bicolor L. Moench genomic DNA by PCR. The α-kafirin promoter (α-kaf) contains endosperm specificity-determining motifs, prolamin-box, the O2-box 1, CATC, and TATA boxes required for α-kafirin gene expression in sorghum seeds. The constructs pMB-Ubi-gfp and pMB-kaf-gfp were microprojectile bombarded into various sorghum and sweet corn explants. GFP expression was detected on all explants using the Ubi promoter but only in seeds for the α-kaf promoter. This shows that the α-kaf promoter isolated was functional and demonstrated seed-specific GFP expression. The constructs pMB-Ubi-ss-gfp and pMB-kaf-ss-gfp were also bombarded into the same explants. Detection of GFP expression showed that the signal peptide (SP)::GFP fusion can assemble and fold properly, preserving the fluorescent properties of GFP.
Successful modification of plant cell-wall composition without compromising plant integrity is dependent on being able to modify the expression of specific genes, but this can be very challenging when the target genes are members of multigene families. 4-coumarate:CoA ligase (4CL) catalyzes the formation of 4-coumaroyl CoA, a precursor of both flavonoids and monolignols, and is an attractive target for transgenic down-regulation aimed at improving agro-industrial properties. Inconsistent phenotypes of transgenic plants have been attributed to variable levels of down-regulation of multiple 4CL genes. Phylogenetic analysis of the sorghum genome revealed 24 4CL(-like) proteins, five of which cluster with bona fide 4CLs from other species. Using a map-based cloning approach and analysis of two independent mutant alleles, the sorghum brown midrib2 (bmr2) locus was shown to encode 4CL. In vitro enzyme assays indicated that its preferred substrate is 4-coumarate. Missense mutations in the two bmr2 alleles result in loss of 4CL activity, probably as a result of improper folding as indicated by molecular modeling. Bmr2 is the most highly expressed 4CL in sorghum stems, leaves and roots, both at the seedling stage and in pre-flowering plants, but the products of several paralogs also display 4CL activity and compensate for some of the lost activity. The contribution of the paralogs varies between developmental stages and tissues. Gene expression assays indicated that Bmr2 is under auto-regulatory control, as reduced 4CL activity results in over-expression of the defective gene. Several 4CL paralogs are also up-regulated in response to the mutation.
Managed environments in the form of well watered and water stressed trials were performed to study the genetic basis of grain yield and stay green in sorghum with the objective of validating previously detected QTL. As variations in phenology and plant height may influence QTL detection for the target traits, QTL for flowering time and plant height were introduced as cofactors in QTL analyses for yield and stay green. All but one of the flowering time QTL were detected near yield and stay green QTL. Similar co-localization was observed for two plant height QTL. QTL analysis for yield, using flowering time/plant height cofactors, led to yield QTL on chromosomes 2, 3, 6, 8 and 10. For stay green, QTL on chromosomes 3, 4, 8 and 10 were not related to differences in flowering time/plant height. The physical positions for markers in QTL regions projected on the sorghum genome suggest that the previously detected plant height QTL, Sb-HT9-1, and Dw2, in addition to the maturity gene, Ma5, had a major confounding impact on the expression of yield and stay green QTL. Co-localization between an apparently novel stay green QTL and a yield QTL on chromosome 3 suggests there is potential for indirect selection based on stay green to improve drought tolerance in sorghum. Our QTL study was carried out with a moderately sized population and spanned a limited geographic range, but still the results strongly emphasize the necessity of corrections for phenology in QTL mapping for drought tolerance traits in sorghum.
The pre-mRNA processing (Prp1) gene encodes a spliceosomal protein. It was firstly identified in fission yeast and plays a regular role during spliceosome activation and cell cycle. Plant Prp1 genes have only been identified from rice, Sorghum and Arabidopsis thaliana. In this study, we reported the identification and isolation of a novel Prp1 gene from barley, and further explored its expressional pattern by using real-time quantitative RTPCR, promoter prediction and analysis of microarray data. The putative barley Prp1 protein has a similar primary structure features to those of other known Prp1 protein in this family. The results of amino acid comparison indicated that Prp1 protein of barley and other plant species has a highly conserved 30 termnal region while their 50 sequences greatly varied. The results of expressional analysis revealed that the expression level of barley Prp1 gene is always stable in different vegetative tissues, except it is up-regulated at the mid- and late stages of seed development or under the condition of cold stress. This kind of expressional pattern for barley Prp1 is also supported by our results of comparison of microarray data from barley, rice and Arabidopsis. For the molecular mechanism of its expressional pattern, we conclude that the expression of Prp1 gene may be up-regulated by the increase of pre-mRNAs and not be constitutive or ubiquitous.
Although Maotai flavor liquor is exclusive due to its soy sauce flavor, knowledge of its key compound and production mechanism is still scarce until now. To gain insight into the production mechanism of soy sauce flavor, a soy sauce flavor producing strain with high efficiency and heat-resistant capability was obtained, and the metabolic mechanism of the strain was investigated with the technique of microarray profiling. Because high temperature was a key factor for soy sauce flavor production, the global gene expression of this heat-resistant strain fermented at 55 °C was analyzed. Except for the responsive increase of heat shock proteins, which maintained cell survival during heat stress, biosynthesis of cysteine was also up-regulated. In addition, some metabolites were significantly increased when cysteine was added to the fermentation medium, such as 2,3-butanediol, 3-hydroxy-2-butanone, and tetramethylpyrazine, which were important flavor compounds in soy sauce flavor liquor and might be related with soy sauce flavor. The results indicated that cysteine might play an important role in the formation of soy sauce flavor compound, and it might act as an indirect precursor or stimulator of soy sauce flavor formation. This was the first use of the microarray profiling tool to investigate the fermentative strains for Chinese traditional liquor, which would allow a deeper insight into the mechanism of the formation of soy sauce flavor compound.
Distinguishing between individuals is critical to those conducting animal/plant breeding, food safety/quality research, diagnostic and clinical testing, and evolutionary biology studies. Classical genetic identification studies are based on marker polymorphisms, but polymorphism-based techniques are time and labor intensive and often cannot distinguish between closely related individuals. Illumina sequencing technologies provide the detailed sequence data required for rapid and efficient differentiation of related species, lines/cultivars, and individuals in a cost-effective manner. Here we describe the use of Illumina high-throughput exome sequencing, coupled with SNP mapping, as a rapid means of distinguishing between related cultivars of the lignocellulosic bioenergy crop giant miscanthus (Miscanthus × giganteus). We provide the first exome sequence database for Miscanthus species complete with Gene Ontology (GO) functional annotations. A SNP comparative analysis of rhizome-derived cDNA sequences was successfully utilized to distinguish three Miscanthus × giganteus cultivars from each other and from other Miscanthus species. Moreover, the resulting phylogenetic tree generated from SNP frequency data parallels the known breeding history of the plants examined. Some of the giant miscanthus plants exhibit considerable sequence divergence. Here we describe an analysis of Miscanthus in which high-throughput exome sequencing was utilized to differentiate between closely related genotypes despite the current lack of a reference genome sequence. We functionally annotated the exome sequences and provide resources to support Miscanthus systems biology. In addition, we demonstrate the use of the commercial high-performance cloud computing to do computational GO annotation.
Major feedstock sources for future biofuel production are likely to be high biomass producing plant species such as poplar, pine, switchgrass, sorghum and maize. One active area of research in these species is genome-enabled improvement of lignocellulosic biofuel feedstock quality and yield. To facilitate genomic-based investigations in these species, we developed the Biofuel Feedstock Genomic Resource (BFGR), a database and web-portal that provides high-quality, uniform and integrated functional annotation of gene and transcript assembly sequences from species of interest to lignocellulosic biofuel feedstock researchers. The BFGR includes sequence data from 54 species and permits researchers to view, analyze and obtain annotation at the gene, transcript, protein and genome level. Annotation of biochemical pathways permits the identification of key genes and transcripts central to the improvement of lignocellulosic properties in these species. The integrated nature of the BFGR in terms of annotation methods, orthologous/paralogous relationships and linkage to seven species with complete genome sequences allows comparative analyses for biofuel feedstock species with limited sequence resources. Database URL: http://bfgr.plantbiology.msu.edu.
Transposons are abundant components of eukaryotic genomes, and play important role in genome evolution. The knowledge about these elements should contribute to the understanding of their impact on the host genomes. The hAT transposon superfamily is one of the best characterized superfamilies in diverse organisms, nevertheless, a detailed study of these elements was never carried in sugarcane. To address this question we analyzed 32 cDNAs similar to that of hAT superfamily of transposons previously identified in the sugarcane transcriptome. Our results revealed that these hAT-like transposases cluster in one highly homogeneous and other more heterogeneous lineage. We present evidences that support the hypothesis that the highly homogeneous group is a domesticated transposase while the remainder of the lineages are composed of transposon units. The first is common to grasses, clusters significantly with domesticated transposases from Arabidopsis, rice and sorghum and is expressed in different tissues of two sugarcane cultivars analyzed. In contrast, the more heterogeneous group represents at least two transposon lineages. We recovered five genomic versions of one lineage, characterizing a novel transposon family with conserved DDE motif, named SChAT. These results indicate the presence of at least three distinct lineages of hAT-like transposase paralogues in sugarcane genome, including a novel transposon family described in Saccharum and a domesticated transposase. Taken together, these findings permit to follow the diversification of some hAT transposase paralogues in sugarcane, aggregating knowledge about the co-evolution of transposons and their host genomes.
Bioenergy is the reduction of carbon via photosynthesis. Currently, this energy is harvested as liquid fuel through fermentation. A major concern, however, is input cost, in particular use of excess water and nitrogen, derived from an energy-negative process, the Haber-Bosch method. Furthermore, the shortage of arable land creates competition between uses for food and fuel, resulting in increased living expenses. This review seeks to summarize recent knowledge in genetics, genomics, and gene expression of a rising model species for bioenergy applications, sorghum. Its diploid genome has been sequenced, it has favorable low-input cost traits, and genetic crosses between different cultivars can be used to study allelic variations of genes involved in stem sugar metabolism and incremental biomass.
The mechanism of calcium uptake, translocation and accumulation in Poaceae has not yet been fully understood. To address this issue, we conducted genome-wide comparative in silico analysis of the calcium (Ca(2+)) transporter gene family of two crop species, rice and sorghum. Gene annotation, identification of upstream cis-acting elements, phylogenetic tree construction and syntenic mapping of the gene family were performed using several bioinformatics tools. A total of 31 Ca(2+) transporters, distributed on 9 out of 12 chromosomes, were predicted from rice genome, while 28 Ca(2+) transporters predicted from sorghum are distributed on all the chromosomes except chromosome 10 (Chr 10). Interestingly, most of the genes on Chr 1 and Chr 3 show an inverse syntenic relationship between rice and sorghum. Multiple sequence alignment and motif analysis of these transporter proteins revealed high conservation between the two species. Phylogenetic tree could very well identify the subclasses of channels, ATPases and exchangers among the gene family. The in silico cis-regulatory element analysis suggested diverse functions associated with light, stress and hormone responsiveness as well as endosperm- and meristem-specific gene expression. Further experiments are warranted to validate the in silico analysis of the predicted transporter gene family and elucidate the functions of Ca(2+) transporters in various biological processes.
Triterpenes are one of the largest classes of plant metabolites and have important functions. A diverse array of triterpenoid skeletons are synthesized via the isoprenoid pathway by enzymatic cyclization of 2,3-oxidosqualene. The genomes of the lower plants Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and moss (Physcomitrella patens) contain just one oxidosqualene cyclase (OSC) gene (for sterol biosynthesis), whereas the genomes of higher plants contain nine to 16 OSC genes. Here we carry out functional analysis of rice OSCs and rigorous phylogenetic analysis of 96 OSCs from higher plants, including Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor and Brachypodium distachyon. The functional analysis identified an amino acid sequence for isoarborinol synthase (OsIAS) (encoded by Os11g35710/OsOSC11) in rice. Our phylogenetic analysis suggests that expansion of OSC members in higher plants has occurred mainly through tandem duplication followed by positive selection and diversifying evolution, and consolidated the previous suggestion that dicot triterpene synthases have been derived from an ancestral lanosterol synthase instead of directly from their cycloartenol synthases. The phylogenetic trees are consistent with the reaction mechanisms of the protosteryl and dammarenyl cations which parent a wide variety of triterpene skeletal types, allowing us to predict the functions of the uncharacterized OSCs.
Auxin transport at least correlates to the three gene families: efflux carriers PIN-formed (PIN), p-glycoprotein (PGP), and influx carrier auxin resistant 1/like aux1(AUX/LAX) in Arabidopsis thaliana. In monocotyledon Sorghum bicolor, the biological function of these genes retains unclear. Our previous study reported that the member analysis, organ-specific expression and expression profiles of the auxin transporter PIN, PGP and AUX/LAX gene families in Sorghum bicolor under IAA, brassinosteroid, polar auxin transport inhibitors and abiotic stresses. Here we further supply the prediction of subcellular localization of SbPIN, SbLAX and SbPGP proteins and discuss the potential relationship between the subcellular localization and stress response. The predicted results showed that the most of SbPIN, SbLAX and SbPGP proteins are localized to the plasma membrane, except few localized to vacuolar membrane and endoplasmic reticulum. This data set provides novel information for investigation of auxin transporters in Sorghum bicolor.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) is globally produced as a source of food, feed, fiber and fuel. Grain and sweet sorghums differ in a number of important traits, including stem sugar and juice accumulation, plant height as well as grain and biomass production. The first whole genome sequence of a grain sorghum is available, but additional genome sequences are required to study genome-wide and intraspecific variation for dissecting the genetic basis of these important traits and for tailor-designed breeding of this important C4 crop. We resequenced two sweet and one grain sorghum inbred lines, and identified a set of nearly 1,500 genes differentiating sweet and grain sorghum. These genes fall into ten major metabolic pathways involved in sugar and starch metabolisms, lignin and coumarin biosynthesis, nucleic acid metabolism, stress responses and DNA damage repair. In addition, we uncovered 1,057,018 SNPs, 99,948 indels of 1 to 10 bp in length and 16,487 presence/absence variations as well as 17,111 copy number variations. The majority of the large-effect SNPs, indels and presence/absence variations resided in the genes containing leucine rich repeats, PPR repeats and disease resistance R genes possessing diverse biological functions or under diversifying selection, but were absent in genes that are essential for life. This is a first report of the identification of genome-wide patterns of genetic variation in sorghum. High-density SNP and indel markers reported here will be a valuable resource for future gene-phenotype studies and the molecular breeding of this important crop and related species.
Sorgoleone is a major component of the hydrophobic root exudate of Sorghum bicolor and is of particular interest to plant chemical ecology as well as agriculture. Sorgoleone was evaluated in this study to observe the expression levels of genes involved in its biosynthesis in response to auxins. Sorgoleone content varied widely according to the duration of application and the concentrations of the auxins. When the application time was increased, the sorgoleone content increased accordingly for all concentrations of IBA (1, 3, and 5 mg/L) and at 1 mg/L for both IAA and NAA. In this study, five different sorgoleone biosynthetic genes were observed, namely DES2, DES3, ARS1, ARS2, and OMT3, which are upregulated in response to IAA, IBA, and NAA. Transcript accumulation was apparent for all genes, but particularly for DES2, which increased up to 475-fold and 180-fold following 72 h exposure to NAA and IBA, respectively, compared to no treatment.
Grain sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L) moench] exhibits intraspecific variability for the rate of dormancy release and pre-harvest sprouting behavior. Two inbred lines with contrasting sprouting response were compared: IS9530 (resistant) and RedlandB2 (susceptible). Precocious dormancy release in RedlandB2 is related to an early loss of embryo sensitivity to ABA and higher levels of gibberellins in imbibed grains as compared with IS9530. With the aim of identifying potential regulatory sites for gibberellin metabolism involved in the expression of dormancy in immature grains of both lines, we carried out a time course analysis of transcript levels of putative gibberellin metabolism genes and hormone content (GA(1), GA(4), GA(8) and GA(34)). A lower embryonic GA(4) level in dormant IS9530 was related to a sharp and transient induction of two SbGA2-oxidase (inactivation) genes. In contrast, these genes were not induced in less dormant RedlandB2, while expression of two SbGA20-oxidase (synthesis) genes increased together with active GA(4) levels before radicle protrusion. Embryonic levels of GA(4) and its catabolite GA(34) correlated negatively. Thus, in addition to the process of gibberellin synthesis, inactivation is also important in regulating GA(4) levels in immature grains. A negative regulation by gibberellins was observed for SbGA20ox2, SbGA2ox1 and SbGA2ox3 and also for SbGID1 encoding a gibberellin receptor. We propose that the coordinated regulation at the transcriptional level of several gibberellin metabolism genes identified in this work affects the balance between gibberellin synthesis and inactivation processes, controlling active GA(4) levels during the expression of dormancy in maturing sorghum grains.
The fungal pathogen Setosphaeria turcica causes turcicum or northern leaf blight disease on maize, sorghum and related grasses. A prevalent foliar disease found worldwide where the two host crops, maize and sorghum are grown. The aim of the present study was to find genes controlling the host defense response to this devastating plant pathogen. A cDNA-AFLP approach was taken to identify candidate sequences, which functions were further validated via virus induced gene silencing (VIGS), and real-time PCR analysis. Phylogenetic analysis was performed to address evolutionary events. cDNA-AFLP analysis was run on susceptible and resistant sorghum and maize genotypes to identify resistance-related sequences. One CC-NB-LRR encoding gene GRMZM2G005347 was found among the up-regulated maize transcripts after fungal challenge. The new plant resistance gene was designated as St referring to S. turcica. Genome sequence comparison revealed that the CC-NB-LRR encoding St genes are located on chromosome 2 in maize, and on chromosome 5 in sorghum. The six St sorghum genes reside in three pairs in one locus. When the sorghum St genes were silenced via VIGS, the resistance was clearly compromised, an observation that was supported by real-time PCR. Database searches and phylogenetic analysis suggest that the St genes have a common ancestor present before the grass subfamily split 50-70 million years ago. Today, 6 genes are present in sorghum, 9 in rice and foxtail millet, respectively, 3 in maize and 4 in Brachypodium distachyon. The St gene homologs have all highly conserved sequences, and commonly reside as gene pairs in the grass genomes. Resistance genes to S. turcica, with a CC-NB-LRR protein domain architecture, have been found in maize and sorghum. VIGS analysis revealed their importance in the surveillance to S. turcica in sorghum. The St genes are highly conserved in sorghum, rice, foxtail millet, maize and Brachypodium, suggesting an essential evolutionary function.
Higher plants exhibit remarkable phenotypic plasticity allowing them to adapt to an extensive range of environmental conditions. Sorghum is a cereal crop that exhibits exceptional tolerance to adverse conditions, in particular, water-limiting environments. This study utilized next generation sequencing (NGS) technology to examine the transcriptome of sorghum plants challenged with osmotic stress and exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) in order to elucidate genes and gene networks that contribute to sorghum's tolerance to water-limiting environments with a long-term aim of developing strategies to improve plant productivity under drought. RNA-Seq results revealed transcriptional activity of 28,335 unique genes from sorghum root and shoot tissues subjected to polyethylene glycol (PEG)-induced osmotic stress or exogenous ABA. Differential gene expression analyses in response to osmotic stress and ABA revealed a strong interplay among various metabolic pathways including abscisic acid and 13-lipoxygenase, salicylic acid, jasmonic acid, and plant defense pathways. Transcription factor analysis indicated that groups of genes may be co-regulated by similar regulatory sequences to which the expressed transcription factors bind. We successfully exploited the data presented here in conjunction with published transcriptome analyses for rice, maize, and Arabidopsis to discover more than 50 differentially expressed, drought-responsive gene orthologs for which no function had been previously ascribed. The present study provides an initial assemblage of sorghum genes and gene networks regulated by osmotic stress and hormonal treatment. We are providing an RNA-Seq data set and an initial collection of transcription factors, which offer a preliminary look into the cascade of global gene expression patterns that arise in a drought tolerant crop subjected to abiotic stress. These resources will allow scientists to query gene expression and functional annotation in response to drought.
Calcineurin B-like proteins play important roles in the calcium perception and signal transduction of abiotic stress. In this study, the bioinformatic analysis of molecular characteristics of Sorghum bicolor calcineurin B-like protein (SbCBL) revealed that sequences of SbCBL are highly conserved, and most SbCBLs have three typical EF-hands structures. Among the SbCBL proteins, four of which, SbCBL01, 04, 05, 08, have a conserved N-myristoylation domain. Stress-responsive and phytohormone-responsive cis-elements were found in the promoter regions of SbCBL genes. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RTqPCR) analysis showed that SbCBL genes have different tissue-specific expression patterns under normal growth conditions in sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench). Interestingly, when treated with sodium carbonate, SbCBL genes also show various sodium carbonate stress responsive patterns in sweet sorghum seedlings. These results suggest that SbCBLs may participate in regulating sodium carbonate stress-specific cellular adaptation responses and influencing growth and developmental patterns in sweet sorghum.
Saccharification describes the conversion of plant biomass by cellulase into glucose. Because plants have never been selected for high saccharification yield, cellulosic ethanol production faces a significant bottleneck. To improve saccharification yield, it is critical to identify the genes that affect this process. In this study, we used pool-based genome-wide association mapping to identify simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers associated with saccharification yield. Screening of 703 SSR markers against the low and high saccharification pools identified two markers on the sorghum chromosomes 2 (23-1062) and 4 (74-508c) associated with saccharification yield. The association was significant at 1% using either general or mixed linear models. Localization of these markers based on the whole genome sequence indicates that 23-1062 is 223 kb from a β-glucanase (Bg) gene and 74-508c is 81 kb from a steroid-binding protein (Sbp) gene. Bg is critical for cell wall assembly and degradation, but Sbp can suppress the expression of Bg as demonstrated in Arabidopsis (Yang et al. 2005). These markers are found physically close to genes encoding plant cell wall synthesis enzymes such as xyloglucan fucosyltransferase (149 kb from 74-508c) and UDP-D-glucose 4-epimerase (46 kb from 23-1062). Genetic transformation of selected candidate genes is in progress to examine their effect on saccharification yield in plants.
Glycosyltransferase family14 (GT14) belongs to the glycosyltransferase (GT) superfamily that plays important roles in the biosynthesis of cell walls, the most abundant source of cellulosic biomass for bioethanol production. It has been hypothesized that DUF266 proteins are a new class of GTs related to GT14. In this study, we identified 62 GT14 and 106 DUF266 genes (named GT14-like herein) in Arabidopsis, Oryza, Populus, Sorghum and Vitis. Our phylogenetic analysis separated GT14 and GT14-like genes into two distinct clades, which were further divided into eight and five groups, respectively. Similarities in protein domain, 3D structure and gene expression were uncovered between the two phylogenetic clades, supporting the hypothesis that GT14 and GT14-like genes belong to one family. Therefore, we proposed a new family name, GT14/GT14-like family that combines both subfamilies. Variation in gene expression and protein subcellular localization within the GT14-like subfamily were greater than those within the GT14 subfamily. One-half of the Arabidopsis and Populus GT14/GT14-like genes were found to be preferentially expressed in stem/xylem, indicating that they are likely involved in cell wall biosynthesis. This study provided new insights into the evolution and functional diversification of the GT14/GT14-like family genes.
Sweet sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (Linn.) Moench) has promise as a bioenergy feedstock in China and other countries for its use in the production of ethanol as the result of its high fermentable sugar accumulation in stems. To boost biofuel production and extend its range, we seek to improve its stress tolerance. Proline acts as an osmolyte that accumulates when plants are subjected to abiotic stress. P5CS (Δ1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase) is a key regulatory enzyme that plays a crucial role in proline biosynthesis. We isolated two closely related P5CS genes from sweet sorghum, designated SbP5CS1 (GenBank accession number: GQ377719) and SbP5CS2 (GenBank accession number: GQ377720), which are located on chromosome 3 and 9 and encode 729 and 716 amino acid polypeptides, respectively. The homology between the two sweet sorghum P5CS genes was 76%. Promoter analysis of the two P5CS genes revealed that both sequences not only contained the expected cis regulatory regions such as TATA and CAAT boxes, but also had many stress response elements. Expression analysis revealed that SbP5CS1 and SbP5CS2 transcripts were up-regulated after treatment of 10-day-old seedlings of sweet sorghum with drought, salt (250mM NaCl) and MeJA (10μM). The expression levels of the both SbP5CS genes were significantly increased after 3-day drought stress. Under high salt treatment, peak SbP5CS1 expression was detected at 4h and 8h for SbP5CS2 in roots, while the trends of expression were nearly identical in leaves. In contrast, under drought and high salt stress, the up-regulated expression of SbP5CS1 was higher than that of SbP5CS2. When the seedlings were exposed to MeJA, rapid transcript induction of SbP5CS1 was detected at 2h in leaves, and the SbP5CS2 expression level increase was detected at 4h post-treatment. SbP5CS1 and SbP5CS2 also show different temporal and spatial expression patterns. SbP5CS2 gene was ubiquitously expressed whereas SbP5CS1 was mainly expressed in mature vegetative and reproductive organs. Proline concentration increased after stress application and was correlated with SbP5CS expression. Our results suggest that the SbP5CS1 and SbP5CS2 are stress inducible genes but might play non-redundant roles in plant development. The two genes could have the potential to be used in improving stress tolerance of sweet sorghum and other bioenergy feedstocks.
Perennial ryegrass is an important pasture grass in temperate regions. As a forage biomass-generating species, plant architecture-related characters provide key objectives for breeding improvement. In silico comparative genomics analysis predicted colocation between a previously identified QTL for plant type (erect versus prostrate growth) and the ortholocus of the rice OsABCG5 gene (LpABCG5), as well as related QTLs in other Poaceae species. Sequencing of an LpABCG5-containing BAC clone identified presence of a paralogue (LpABCG6) in the vicinity of the LpABCG5 locus, in addition to three other gene-like sequences. Comparative genomics involving five other 5 grass species (rice, Brachypodium, sorghum, maize, and foxtail millet) revealed conserved microsynteny in the ABCG5 ortholocus-flanking region. Gene expression profiling and phylogenetic analysis suggested that the two paralogues are functionally distinct. Fourteen additional ABCG5 gene family members, which may interact with the LpABCG5 gene, were identified through sequencing of transcriptomes from perennial ryegrass leaf, anther, and pistils. A larger-scale phylogenetic analysis of the ABCG gene family suggested conservation between major branches of the Poaceae family. This study identified the LpABCG5 gene as a candidate for the plant type determinant, suggesting that manipulation of gene expression may provide valuable phenotypes for perennial ryegrass breeding.
Optimal flowering time is critical to the success of modern agriculture. Sorghum is a short-day tropical species that exhibits substantial photoperiod sensitivity and delayed flowering in long days. Genotypes with reduced photoperiod sensitivity enabled sorghum's utilization as a grain crop in temperate zones worldwide. In the present study, Ma(1), the major repressor of sorghum flowering in long days, was identified as the pseudoresponse regulator protein 37 (PRR37) through positional cloning and analysis of SbPRR37 alleles that modulate flowering time in grain and energy sorghum. Several allelic variants of SbPRR37 were identified in early flowering grain sorghum germplasm that contain unique loss-of-function mutations. We show that in long days SbPRR37 activates expression of the floral inhibitor CONSTANS and represses expression of the floral activators Early Heading Date 1, FLOWERING LOCUS T, Zea mays CENTRORADIALIS 8, and floral induction. Expression of SbPRR37 is light dependent and regulated by the circadian clock, with peaks of RNA abundance in the morning and evening in long days. In short days, the evening-phase expression of SbPRR37 does not occur due to darkness, allowing sorghum to flower in this photoperiod. This study provides insight into an external coincidence mechanism of photoperiodic regulation of flowering time mediated by PRR37 in the short-day grass sorghum and identifies important alleles of SbPRR37 that are critical for the utilization of this tropical grass in temperate zone grain and bioenergy production.
Tillering is an important trait of cereal crops that optimizes plant architecture for maximum yield. Teosinte Branched 1 (TB1) is a negative regulator of lateral branching and an inducer of female inflorescence formation in Zea mays (maize). Recent studies indicate that TB1 homologs in Oryza sativa (rice), Sorghum bicolor and Arabidopsis thaliana act downstream of the auxin and MORE AUXILIARY GROWTH (MAX) pathways. However, the molecular mechanism by which rice produces tillers remains unknown. In this study, transgenic rice plants were produced that overexpress the maize TB1 (mTB1) or rice TB1 (OsTB1) genes and silence the OsTB1 gene through RNAi-mediated knockdown. Because lateral branching in rice is affected by the environmental conditions, the phenotypes of transgenic plants were observed in both the greenhouse and the paddy field. Compared to wild-type plants, the number of tillers and panicles was reduced and increased in overexpressed and RNAi-mediated knockdown OsTB1 rice plants, respectively, under both environmental conditions. However, the effect was small for plants grown in paddy fields. These results demonstrate that both mTB1 and OsTB1 moderately regulate the tiller development in rice.
Sweet Sorghum is largely grown for grain production but also recently emerged as one of the model feedstock plants for biofuel production. In plants, microRNA (miRNA)-guided gene regulation plays a key role in diverse biological processes, thus, their identification in different plant species is essential to understand post-transcriptional gene regulation. To identify miRNAs in Sorghum, we sequenced a small RNA library. Sequence analysis revealed the identity of 29 conserved miRNA families. Importantly, 13 novel miRNAs are identified, seven of which are conserved in closely related monocots. Temporal expression analysis of conserved and novel miRNAs indicated differential expression of several miRNAs. Approximately 125 genes that play diverse roles have been predicted as targets and a few targets were experimentally validated. These results provided insights into miRNA-controlled processes in Sorghum and also laid the foundation for manipulating miRNAs or their targets for improving biomass production and stress tolerance in Sorghum.
Resveratrol and related stilbenes are thought to play important roles in defence responses in several plant species and have also generated considerable interest as nutraceuticals owing to their diverse health-promoting properties. Pterostilbene, a 3,5-dimethylether derivative of resveratrol, possesses properties similar to its parent compound and, additionally, exhibits significantly higher fungicidal activity in vitro and superior pharmacokinetic properties in vivo. Recombinant enzyme studies carried out using a previously characterized O-methyltransferase sequence from Sorghum bicolor (SbOMT3) demonstrated its ability to catalyse the A ring-specific 3,5-bis-O-methylation of resveratrol, yielding pterostilbene. A binary vector was constructed for the constitutive co-expression of SbOMT3 with a stilbene synthase sequence from peanut (AhSTS3) and used for the generation of stably transformed tobacco and Arabidopsis plants, resulting in the accumulation of pterostilbene in both species. A reduced floral pigmentation phenotype observed in multiple tobacco transformants was further investigated by reversed-phase HPLC analysis, revealing substantial decreases in both dihydroquercetin-derived flavonoids and phenylpropanoid-conjugated polyamines in pterostilbene-producing SbOMT3/AhSTS3 events. These results demonstrate the potential utility of this strategy for the generation of pterostilbene-producing crops and also underscore the need for the development of additional approaches for minimizing concomitant reductions in key phenylpropanoid-derived metabolites.
Al-activated organic acid anion efflux from roots is an important Al resistance mechanism in plants. We have conducted homologous cloning and isolated Vigna umbellata multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (VuMATE), a gene encoding a de novo citrate transporter from rice bean. Al treatment up-regulated VuMATE expression in the root apex, but neither in the mature root region nor in the leaf. The degree of up-regulation of VuMATE was both partially Al concentration and time dependent, consistent with the delay in the onset of the Al-induced citrate efflux in rice bean roots. While La(3+) moderately induced VuMATE expression, Cd(2+) and Cu(2+) did not induce the expression. Electrophysiological analysis of Xenopus oocytes expressing VuMATE indicated this transporter can mediate significant anion efflux across the plasma membrane. [(14) C]citrate efflux experiments in oocytes demonstrated that VuMATE is a H(+) -dependent citrate transporter. In addition, expression of VuMATE in transgenic tomato resulted in increased Al resistance, which correlated with an enhanced citrate efflux. Taken together, these findings suggest that VuMATE is a functional homolog of the known citrate transporters in sorghum, barley, maize and Arabidopsis. The similarities and differences of all the known citrate transporters associated with Al stress in the MATE family are also discussed.
The genomes of cereals such as wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) are large and therefore problematic for the map-based cloning of agronomicaly important traits. However, comparative approaches within the Poaceae permit transfer of molecular knowledge between species, despite their divergence from a common ancestor sixty million years ago. The finding that null variants of the rice gene cytokinin oxidase/dehydrogenase 2 (OsCKX2) result in large yield increases provides an opportunity to explore whether similar gains could be achieved in other Poaceae members. Here, phylogenetic, molecular and comparative analyses of CKX families in the sequenced grass species rice, brachypodium, sorghum, maize and foxtail millet, as well as members identified from the transcriptomes/genomes of wheat and barley, are presented. Phylogenetic analyses define four Poaceae CKX clades. Comparative analyses showed that CKX phylogenetic groupings can largely be explained by a combination of local gene duplication, and the whole-genome duplication event that predates their speciation. Full-length OsCKX2 homologues in barley (HvCKX2.1, HvCKX2.2) and wheat (TaCKX2.3, TaCKX2.4, TaCKX2.5) are characterized, with comparative analysis at the DNA, protein and genetic/physical map levels suggesting that true CKX2 orthologs have been identified. Furthermore, our analysis shows CKX2 genes in barley and wheat have undergone a Triticeae-specific gene-duplication event. Finally, by identifying ten of the eleven CKX genes predicted to be present in barley by comparative analyses, we show that next-generation sequencing approaches can efficiently determine the gene space of large-genome crops. Together, this work provides the foundation for future functional investigation of CKX family members within the Poaceae.
Among C₄ species, sorghum is known to be more drought tolerant than maize. The objective was to evaluate differences in leaf gas exchanges, carbohydrates, and two enzyme activities of these nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-malic enzyme (NADP-ME) C₄ subtype monocots in response to water deficit and CO₂ concentration ([CO₂]). Maize and sorghum were grown in pots in sunlit environmental-controlled chambers. Treatments included well watered (WW) and water stressed (WS) (water withheld at 26 days) and daytime [CO₂] of 360 (ambient) and 720 (elevated) μmol mol⁻¹. Midday gas exchange rates, concentrations of nonstructural carbohydrates, and activities of sucrose-phosphate synthase (SPS) and adenosine 5'-diphosphoglucose pyrophosphorylase (ADGP) were determined for fully expanded leaf sections. There was no difference in leaf CO₂ exchange rates (CER) between ambient and elevated [CO₂] control plants for both maize and sorghum. After withholding water, leaf CER declined to zero after 8 days in maize and 10 days for sorghum. Sorghum had lower stomatal conductance and transpiration rates than maize, which resulted in a longer period of CER under drought. Nonstructural carbohydrates of both control maize and sorghum were hardly affected by elevated [CO₂]. Under drought, however, increases in soluble sugars and decreases in starch were generally observed for maize and sorghum at both [CO₂] levels. For stressed maize and sorghum, decreases in starch occurred earlier and were greater at ambient [CO₂] than at elevated [CO₂]. For maize, drought did not meaningfully affect SPS activity. However, a decline in SPS activity was observed for drought-stressed sorghum under both [CO₂] treatments. There was an increase in ADGP activity in maize under drought for both [CO₂] treatments. Such a response in ADGP to drought, however, did not occur for sorghum. The generally more rapid response of maize than sorghum to drought might be related to the more rapid growth of leaf area of maize.
Transcription factors of the plant-specific homeodomain leucine zipper IV (HD-ZIP IV) family have been found from moss to higher plants, and several family members have been associated with epidermis-related expression and/or function. In maize (Zea mays), four of the five characterized HD-ZIP IV family members are expressed specifically in the epidermis, one contributes to trichome development, and target genes of another one are involved in cuticle biosynthesis. Assessing the phylogeny, synteny, gene structure, expression, and regulation of the entire family in maize, 12 novel ZmHDZIV genes were identified in the recently sequenced maize genome. Among the 17 genes, eight form homeologous pairs duplicated after the split of maize and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), whereas a fifth duplication is shared with sorghum. All 17 ZmHDZIV genes appear to be derived from a basic module containing seven introns in the coding region. With one possible exception, all 17 ZmHDZIV genes are expressed and show preferential expression in immature reproductive organs. Fourteen of 15 ZmHDZIV genes with detectable expression in laser-dissected tissues exhibit a moderate to very strong expression preference for the epidermis, suggesting that at least in maize, the majority of HD-ZIP IV family members may have epidermis-related functions. Thirteen ZmHDZIV genes carry conserved motifs of 19 and 21 nucleotides in their 3' untranslated region. The strong evolutionary conservation and the size of the conserved motifs in the 3' untranslated region suggest that the expression of HD-ZIP IV genes may be regulated by small RNAs.
De-etiolation during seedling development is antagonistically regulated by blue light (BL) and gibberellins (GAs). The crosstalk between blue light (BL) and GA metabolism and signaling remains unclear. Using the mutant har1 which is specifically hypersensitive to BL in de-etiolation, the involvement possibility of the GA metabolism, GA signaling in the inhibition of mesocotyl elongation of the sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. var. R111) seeding under BL was investigated. The inhibition of mesocotyl and cell elongation by BL was restored by application of exogenous GA(3) in har1. The endogenous GA(3) level correspondingly decreased in har1 mesocotyl especially from 1 to 4 h after BL irradiation. Putative genes of GA metabolism enzymes SbGA20ox, SbGA3ox and SbGA2ox were detected by Real-Time PCR and the results showed that one of the SbGA2ox homologs appeared significantly higher transcript level in har1 than in R111 at 2 h after BL irradiation. Putative homologous genes of DELLAs increased after BL irradiation and were higher in har1 among the three homologs. Remarkable increase of the DELLA expression was observed responding to exogenous paclobutrazol (PAC). Our research provided evidence in monocot sorghum, that the changes of a set of the GA metabolism and signaling genes might be involved in BL-induced inhibition of cell elongation.
During the Neolithic revolution, early farmers altered plant development to domesticate crops. Similar traits were often selected independently in different wild species; yet the genetic basis of this parallel phenotypic evolution remains elusive. Plant architecture ranks among these target traits composing the domestication syndrome. We focused on the reduction of branching which occurred in several cereals, an adaptation known to rely on the major gene Teosinte-branched1 (Tb1) in maize. We investigate the role of the Tb1 orthologue (Pgtb1) in the domestication of pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum), an African outcrossing cereal. Gene cloning, expression profiling, QTL mapping and molecular evolution analysis were combined in a comparative approach between pearl millet and maize. Our results in pearl millet support a role for PgTb1 in domestication despite important differences in the genetic basis of branching adaptation in that species compared to maize (e.g. weaker effects of PgTb1). Genetic maps suggest this pattern to be consistent in other cereals with reduced branching (e.g. sorghum, foxtail millet). Moreover, although the adaptive sites underlying domestication were not formerly identified, signatures of selection pointed to putative regulatory regions upstream of both Tb1 orthologues in maize and pearl millet. However, the signature of human selection in the pearl millet Tb1 is much weaker in pearl millet than in maize. Our results suggest that some level of parallel evolution involved at least regions directly upstream of Tb1 for the domestication of pearl millet and maize. This was unanticipated given the multigenic basis of domestication traits and the divergence of wild progenitor species for over 30 million years prior to human selection. We also hypothesized that regular introgression of domestic pearl millet phenotypes by genes from the wild gene pool could explain why the selective sweep in pearl millet is softer than in maize.
BURP domain-containing proteins have a conserved structure and are found extensively in plants. The functions of the proteins in this family are diverse, but remain unknown in Populus trichocarpa. In the present study, a complete genome of P. trichocarpa was analyzed bioinformatically. A total of 18 BURP family genes, named PtBURPs, were identified and characterized according to their physical positions on the P. trichocarpa chromosomes. A phylogenetic tree was generated from alignments of PtBURP protein sequences, while phylogenetic relationships were also examined between PtBURPs and BURP family genes in other plants, including rice, soybean, maize and sorghum. BURP genes in P. trichocarpa were classified into five classes, namely PG1β-like, BNM2-like, USP-like, RD22-like and BURP V. The multiple expectation maximization for motif elicitation (MEME) and multiple protein sequence alignments of PtBURPs were also performed. Results from the transcript level analyses of 10 PtBURP genes under different stress conditions revealed the expression patterns in poplar and led to a discussion on genome duplication and evolution, expression profiles and function of PtBURP genes.
Sorghum belongs to the tribe of the Andropogoneae that includes potential biofuel crops like switchgrass, Miscanthus and successful biofuel crops like corn and sugarcane. However, from a genomics point of view sorghum has compared to these other species a simpler genome because it lacks the additional rounds of whole genome duplication events. Therefore, it has become possible to generate a high-quality genome sequence. Furthermore, cultivars exists that rival sugarcane in levels of stem sugar so that a genetic approach can be used to investigate which genes are differentially expressed to achieve high levels of stem sugar. Here, we characterized the small RNA component of the transcriptome from grain and sweet sorghum stems, and from F2 plants derived from their cross that segregated for sugar content and flowering time. We found that variation in miR172 and miR395 expression correlated with flowering time whereas variation in miR169 expression correlated with sugar content in stems. Interestingly, genotypic differences in the ratio of miR395 to miR395* were identified, with miR395* species expressed as abundantly as miR395 in sweet sorghum but not in grain sorghum. Finally, we provided experimental evidence for previously annotated miRNAs detecting the expression of 25 miRNA families from the 27 known and discovered 9 new miRNAs candidates in the sorghum genome. Sequencing the small RNA component of sorghum stem tissue provides us with experimental evidence for previously predicted microRNAs in the sorghum genome and microRNAs with a potential role in stem sugar accumulation and flowering time.
Manihot esculenta (cassava) contains two cyanogenic glucosides, linamarin and lotaustralin, biosynthesized from l-valine and l-isoleucine, respectively. In this study, cDNAs encoding two uridine diphosphate glycosyltransferase (UGT) paralogs, assigned the names UGT85K4 and UGT85K5, have been isolated from cassava. The paralogs display 96% amino acid identity, and belong to a family containing cyanogenic glucoside-specific UGTs from Sorghum bicolor and Prunus dulcis. Recombinant UGT85K4 and UGT85K5 produced in Escherichia coli were able to glucosylate acetone cyanohydrin and 2-hydroxy-2-methylbutyronitrile, forming linamarin and lotaustralin. UGT85K4 and UGT85K5 show broad in vitro substrate specificity, as documented by their ability to glucosylate other hydroxynitriles, some flavonoids and simple alcohols. Immunolocalization studies indicated that UGT85K4 and UGT85K5 co-occur with CYP79D1/D2 and CYP71E7 paralogs, which catalyze earlier steps in cyanogenic glucoside synthesis in cassava. These enzymes are all found in mesophyll and xylem parenchyma cells in the first unfolded cassava leaf. In situ PCR showed that UGT85K4 and UGT85K5 are co-expressed with CYP79D1 and both CYP71E7 paralogs in the cortex, xylem and phloem parenchyma, and in specific cells in the endodermis of the petiole of the first unfolded leaf. Based on the data obtained, UGT85K4 and UGT85K5 are concluded to be the UGTs catalyzing in planta synthesis of cyanogenic glucosides. The localization of the biosynthetic enzymes suggests that cyanogenic glucosides may play a role in both defense reactions and in fine-tuning nitrogen assimilation in cassava.
The interactions between transcription factors (TFs) and cis-regulatory DNA sequences control gene expression, constituting the essential functional linkages of gene regulatory networks. The aim of this study is to identify and integrate all putative TFs from six grass species: Brachypodium distachyon, maize, rice, sorghum, barley, and wheat with significant information into an integrative database (GramineaeTFDB) for comparative genomics and functional genomics. For each TF, sequence features, promoter regions, domain alignments, GO assignment, FL-cDNA information, if available, and cross-references to various public databases and genetic resources are provided. Additionally, GramineaeTFDB possesses a tool which aids the users to search for putative cis-elements located in the promoter regions of TFs and predict the functions of the TFs using cis-element-based functional prediction approach. We also supplied hyperlinks to expression profiles of those TF genes of maize, rice, and barley, for which data are available. Furthermore, information about the availability of FOX and Ds mutant lines for rice and maize TFs, respectively, are also accessible through hyperlinks. Our study provides an important user-friendly public resource for functional analyses and comparative genomics of grass TFs, and understanding of the architecture of transcriptional regulatory networks and evolution of the TFs in agriculturally important cereal crops.
Cyanogenic glucosides are amino acid-derived defence compounds found in a large number of vascular plants. Their hydrolysis by specific β-glucosidases following tissue damage results in the release of hydrogen cyanide. The cyanogenesis deficient1 (cyd1) mutant of Lotus japonicus carries a partial deletion of the CYP79D3 gene, which encodes a cytochrome P450 enzyme that is responsible for the first step in cyanogenic glucoside biosynthesis. The genomic region surrounding CYP79D3 contains genes encoding the CYP736A2 protein and the UDP-glycosyltransferase UGT85K3. In combination with CYP79D3, these genes encode the enzymes that constitute the entire pathway for cyanogenic glucoside biosynthesis. The biosynthetic genes for cyanogenic glucoside biosynthesis are also co-localized in cassava (Manihot esculenta) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), but the three gene clusters show no other similarities. Although the individual enzymes encoded by the biosynthetic genes in these three plant species are related, they are not necessarily orthologous. The independent evolution of cyanogenic glucoside biosynthesis in several higher plant lineages by the repeated recruitment of members from similar gene families, such as the CYP79s, is a likely scenario.
Acid soils comprise up to 50% of the world's arable lands and in these areas aluminum (Al) toxicity impairs root growth, strongly limiting crop yield. Food security is thereby compromised in many developing countries located in tropical and subtropical regions worldwide. In sorghum, SbMATE, an Al-activated citrate transporter, underlies the Alt(SB) locus on chromosome 3 and confers Al tolerance via Al-activated root citrate release. Population structure was studied in 254 sorghum accessions representative of the diversity present in cultivated sorghums. Al tolerance was assessed as the degree of root growth inhibition in nutrient solution containing Al. A genetic analysis based on markers flanking Alt(SB) and SbMATE expression was undertaken to assess a possible role for Alt(SB) in Al tolerant accessions. In addition, the mode of gene action was estimated concerning the Al tolerance trait. Comparisons between models that include population structure were applied to assess the importance of each subpopulation to Al tolerance. Six subpopulations were revealed featuring specific racial and geographic origins. Al tolerance was found to be rather rare and present primarily in guinea and to lesser extent in caudatum subpopulations. Alt(SB) was found to play a role in Al tolerance in most of the Al tolerant accessions. A striking variation was observed in the mode of gene action for the Al tolerance trait, which ranged from almost complete recessivity to near complete dominance, with a higher frequency of partially recessive sources of Al tolerance. A possible interpretation of our results concerning the origin and evolution of Al tolerance in cultivated sorghum is discussed. This study demonstrates the importance of deeply exploring the crop diversity reservoir both for a comprehensive view of the dynamics underlying the distribution and function of Al tolerance genes and to design efficient molecular breeding strategies aimed at enhancing Al tolerance.
Auxin response factors (ARFs), member of the plant-specific B3 DNA binding superfamily, target specifically to auxin response elements (AuxREs) in promoters of primary auxin-responsive genes and heterodimerize with Aux/IAA proteins in auxin signaling transduction cascade. In previous research, we have isolated and characterized maize Aux/IAA genes in whole-genome scale. Here, we report the comprehensive analysis of ARF genes in maize. A total of 36 ARF genes were identified and validated from the B73 maize genome through an iterative strategy. Thirty-six maize ARF genes are distributed in all maize chromosomes except chromosome 7. Maize ARF genes expansion is mainly due to recent segmental duplications. Maize ARF proteins share one B3 DNA binding domain which consists of seven-stranded β sheets and two short α helixes. Twelve maize ARFs with glutamine-rich middle regions could be as activators in modulating expression of auxin-responsive genes. Eleven maize ARF proteins are lack of homo- and heterodimerization domains. Putative cis-elements involved in phytohormones and light signaling responses, biotic and abiotic stress adaption locate in promoters of maize ARF genes. Expression patterns vary greatly between clades and sister pairs of maize ARF genes. The B3 DNA binding and auxin response factor domains of maize ARF proteins are primarily subjected to negative selection during selective sweep. The mixed selective forces drive the diversification and evolution of genomic regions outside of B3 and ARF domains. Additionally, the dicot-specific proliferation of ARF genes was detected. Comparative genomics analysis indicated that maize, sorghum and rice duplicate chromosomal blocks containing ARF homologs are highly syntenic. This study provides insights into the distribution, phylogeny and evolution of ARF gene family.
In the present study Dof1 gene of finger millet was cloned and sequenced. In silico analysis reveals 61% identity with the Sorghum bicolor and 57% identity with the Oryza sativa Dof1 sequence. A comparative analysis of gene sequences from different crops and three finger millet genotypes {Brown (PRM-1), Golden (PRM-701) and White (PRM-801)} differing in grain colour, yield and photosynthetic efficiency showed a high degree of sequence identity of Dof1 sequence gene ranging from 22 to 70% as evident from distance matrix of the built phylogenetic tree showing two major clusters. A total of five conserved motifs were observed in Dof1 sequences of different cereals. Motif 1 with multilevel consensus sequence CKNCRRYWTKGGAMRNVPVG contains zinc finger Dof domain. Motif 3 and motif 5 contains protein kinase phosphorylation site. Motif 2 contains Dof domain and zinc finger N-glycosylation site while motif 4 is involved in Zinc finger type profiling. Further, we studied the spatial distribution of Dof1 gene in three vegetative tissues (root, stem and flag leaf) as well as four stages of developing spikes (S1, S2, S3 and S4) of the three finger millet genotypes using qualitative and quantitative PCR based approaches. Physiological parameters (plant height, leaf area, chlorophyll content, SPAD value and photosynthetic efficiency) at the time of flowering was found to be highest in white (PRM-801) genotype followed by golden (PRM-701) and brown (PRM-1) genotype. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR and quantitative real-time PCR analysis revealed that the expression of Dof1 is highest in leaves and lowest in roots, which suggests its role in regulation of photosynthesis-related genes and carbon skeleton synthesis. Also at grain maturity stage, expression of Dof1 was higher in white (PRM-801) genotype followed by golden (PRM-701) and brown (PRM-1) genotype. The result is suggestive of Dof1 role in the accumulation of grain protein and yield attribute through regulation of key enzymes involved in source to sink relationship during grain filling stage.
It has been well established that DNA cytosine methylation plays essential regulatory roles in imprinting gene expression in endosperm, and hence normal embryonic development, in the model plant Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Nonetheless, the developmental role of this epigenetic marker in cereal crops remains largely unexplored. Here, we report for sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) differences in relative cytosine methylation levels and patterns at 5'-CCGG sites in seven tissues (endosperm, embryo, leaf, root, young inflorescence, anther, and ovary), and characterize a set of tissue-specific differentially methylated regions (TDMRs). We found that the most enriched TDMRs in sorghum are specific for the endosperm and are generated concomitantly but imbalanced by decrease versus increase in cytosine methylation at multiple 5'-CCGG sites across the genome. This leads to more extensive demethylation in the endosperm than in other tissues, where TDMRs are mainly tissue nonspecific rather than specific to a particular tissue. Accordingly, relative to endosperm, the other six tissues showed grossly similar levels though distinct patterns of cytosine methylation, presumably as a result of a similar extent of concomitant decrease versus increase in cytosine methylation that occurred at variable genomic loci. All four tested TDMRs were validated by bisulfite genomic sequencing. Diverse sequences were found to underlie the TDMRs, including those encoding various known-function or predicted proteins, transposable elements, and those bearing homology to putative imprinted genes in maize (Zea mays). We further found that the expression pattern of at least some genic TDMRs was correlated with its tissue-specific methylation state, implicating a developmental role of DNA methylation in regulating tissue-specific or -preferential gene expression in sorghum.
Ears are the seed-bearing inflorescences of maize (Zea mays) plants and represent a crucial component of maize yield. The first step in the formation of ears is the initiation of axillary meristems in the axils of developing leaves. In the classic maize mutant barren stalk fastigiate1 (baf1), first discovered in the 1950s, ears either do not form or, if they do, are partially fused to the main stalk. We positionally cloned Baf1 and found that it encodes a transcriptional regulator containing an AT-hook DNA binding motif. Single coorthologs of Baf1 are found in syntenic regions of brachypodium (Brachypodium distachyon), rice (Oryza sativa), and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), suggesting that the gene is likely present in all cereal species. Protein-protein interaction assays suggest that BAF1 is capable of forming homodimers and heterodimers with other members of the AT-hook family. Another transcriptional regulator required for ear initiation is the basic helix-loop-helix protein BARREN STALK1 (BA1). Genetic and expression analyses suggest that Baf1 is required to reach a threshold level of Ba1 expression for the initiation of maize ears. We propose that Baf1 functions in the demarcation of a boundary region essential for the specification of a stem cell niche.
Flax, Linum usitatissimum L., is an important crop whose seed oil and stem fiber have multiple industrial applications. Flax seeds are also well-known for their nutritional attributes, viz., omega-3 fatty acids in the oil and lignans and mucilage from the seed coat. In spite of the importance of this crop, there are few molecular resources that can be utilized toward improving seed traits. Here, we describe flax embryo and seed development and generation of comprehensive genomic resources for the flax seed. We describe a large-scale generation and analysis of expressed sequences in various tissues. Collectively, the 13 libraries we have used provide a broad representation of genes active in developing embryos (globular, heart, torpedo, cotyledon and mature stages) seed coats (globular and torpedo stages) and endosperm (pooled globular to torpedo stages) and genes expressed in flowers, etiolated seedlings, leaves, and stem tissue. A total of 261,272 expressed sequence tags (EST) (GenBank accessions LIBEST_026995 to LIBEST_027011) were generated. These EST libraries included transcription factor genes that are typically expressed at low levels, indicating that the depth is adequate for in silico expression analysis. Assembly of the ESTs resulted in 30,640 unigenes and 82% of these could be identified on the basis of homology to known and hypothetical genes from other plants. When compared with fully sequenced plant genomes, the flax unigenes resembled poplar and castor bean more than grape, sorghum, rice or Arabidopsis. Nearly one-fifth of these (5,152) had no homologs in sequences reported for any organism, suggesting that this category represents genes that are likely unique to flax. Digital analyses revealed gene expression dynamics for the biosynthesis of a number of important seed constituents during seed development. We have developed a foundational database of expressed sequences and collection of plasmid clones that comprise even low-expressed genes such as those encoding transcription factors. This has allowed us to delineate the spatio-temporal aspects of gene expression underlying the biosynthesis of a number of important seed constituents in flax. Flax belongs to a taxonomic group of diverse plants and the large sequence database will allow for evolutionary studies as well.
Target leaf spot is one of the major sorghum diseases in southern Japan and caused by a necrotrophic fungus, Bipolaris sorghicola. Sorghum resistance to target leaf spot is controlled by a single recessive gene (ds1). A high-density genetic map of the ds1 locus was constructed with simple sequence repeat markers using progeny from crosses between a sensitive variety, bmr-6, and a resistant one, SIL-05, which allowed the ds1 gene to be genetically located within a 26-kb region on the short arm of sorghum chromosome 5. The sorghum genome annotation database for BTx623, for which the whole genome sequence was recently published, indicated a candidate gene from the Leucine-Rich Repeat Receptor Kinase family in this region. The candidate protein kinase gene was expressed in susceptible plants but was not expressed or was severely reduced in resistant plants. The expression patterns of ds1 gene and the phenotype of target leaf spot resistance were clearly correlated. Genomic sequences of this region in parental varieties showed a deletion in the promoter region of SIL-05 that could cause reduction of gene expression. We also found two ds1 alleles for resistant phenotypes with a stop codon in the coding region. The results shown here strongly suggest that the loss of function or suppression of the ds1 protein kinase gene leads to resistance to target leaf spot in sorghum.
RNA-binding proteins play critical roles at multiple steps during gene expression, including mRNA transport and translation. mRNA transport is particularly important in rice (Oryza sativa L.) in order to ensure the proper localization of the prolamine and glutelin seed storage proteins. However, relatively little information is available about RNA-binding proteins that have been isolated or characterized in plants. The RiceRBP database is a novel resource for the analysis of RNA-binding proteins in rice. RiceRBP contains 257 experimentally identified RNA-binding proteins, which are derived from at least 221 distinct rice genes. Many of the identified proteins catalogued in RiceRBP had not previously been annotated or predicted to bind RNA. RiceRBP provides tools to facilitate the analysis of the identified RNA-binding proteins, including information about predicted protein domains, phylogenetic relationships, and expression patterns of the identified genes. Importantly, RiceRBP also contains tools to search and analyze predicted RNA-binding protein orthologs in other plant species. We anticipate that the data and analysis tools provided by RiceRBP should facilitate the study of plant RNA-binding proteins. RiceRBP is available at http://www.bioinformatics2.wsu.edu/RiceRBP.
Pseudomonas fluorescens is an important biological component of agricultural soils that bestows a number of direct and indirect beneficial attributes to the plants. We analyzed the biocontrol strain P. fluorescens Psd for indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) biosynthesis and studied the effect of its consequent manipulation on its plant-growth-promoting (PGP) potential. While the indole pyruvic acid (IPyA) pathway commonly associated with PGP bacteria was lacking, the indole acetamide (IAM) pathway generally observed in phytopathogens was expressed in strain Psd. Overexpression of IAM pathway genes iaaM-iaaH, from Pseudomonas syringae subsp. savastanoi drastically increased IAA levels and showed a detrimental effect on sorghum root development. On the other hand, heterologous expression of the indole-3-pyruvate decarboxylase/phenylpyruvate decarboxylase gene (ipdC/ppdC) of the IPyA pathway from the PGP bacterium Azospirillum brasilense SM led to enhancement of the IAA level. A more favorable effect of this recombinant strain on sorghum root growth and development suggests that metabolic engineering could be used to generate strains with improved PGP function.
Every day almost one billion people suffer from chronic hunger, and the situation is expected to deteriorate with a projected population growth to 9 billion worldwide by 2050. In order to provide adequate nutrition into the future, rice yields in Asia need to increase by 60%, a change that may be achieved by introduction of the C(4) photosynthetic cycle into rice. The international C(4) Rice Consortium was founded in order to test the feasibility of installing the C(4) engine into rice. This review provides an update on two of the many approaches employed by the C(4) Rice Consortium: namely, metabolic C(4) engineering and identification of determinants of leaf anatomy by mutant screens. The aim of the metabolic C(4) engineering approach is to generate a two-celled C(4) shuttle in rice by expressing the classical enzymes of the NADP-ME C(4) cycle in a cell-appropriate manner. The aim is also to restrict RuBisCO and glycine decarboxylase expression to the bundle sheath (BS) cells of rice in a C(4)-like fashion by specifically down-regulating their expression in rice mesophyll (M) cells. In addition to the changes in biochemistry, two-celled C(4) species show a convergence in leaf anatomy that include increased vein density and reduced numbers of M cells between veins. By screening rice activation-tagged lines and loss-of-function sorghum mutants we endeavour to identify genes controlling these key traits.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) is an important source for food, feed, and possesses many agronomic attributes attractive for a biofuels feedstock. A warm season crop originating from the semi-arid tropics, sorghum is relatively susceptible to both cold and freezing stress. Enhancing the ability of sorghum to tolerate cold and freezing offers a route to expand the acreage for production, and provides a potential drought avoidance strategy during flowering, an important parameter for protection of yield. Targeted perturbation of the signal transduction pathway, that is triggered by exposure to abiotic stress in plants, has been demonstrated in model systems as an avenue to augment tolerance. Calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs) are key players in a plant's response to environmental assaults. To test the impact of modulating CDPK activity in sorghum as a means to enhanced abiotic stress tolerance, we introduced a constitutively expressed rice CDPK-7 (OsCDPK-7) gene construct. Sorghum transformants carrying this cassette, were not improved in cold or salt stress under the conditions tested. However, a lesion mimic phenotype and up-regulation of a number of pathogen related proteins, along with transcripts linked to photosynthesis were observed. These results demonstrate that modulating the Ca signaling cascade in planta via unregulated enhanced CDPK activity can lead to off-type effects likely due to the broadly integrated nature of these enzymes in signaling.
The diversity of plant architectural form is largely determined by the extent and duration of axillary meristem (AM) derived lateral growth. The orthologous basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins maize BARREN STALK1 (BA1) and rice LAX PANICLE1 (LAX1) are essential for the formation of AMs during vegetative development and all lateral structures during inflorescence development, but whether BA1/LAX1 co-orthologs exist outside of the grass family is unclear. Here, we present Bayesian phylogenetic evidence of a well-supported BA1/LAX1 clade comprised monocots and eudicots, estimating an origin for the lineage at least near the base of flowering plants. Genomic analyses in Arabidopsis, papaya, medicago, rice, sorghum, and maize indicate that BA1/LAX1 genes reside in syntenic regions, although there has also been a complex pattern of gene duplication and loss during the diversification of the angiosperm clade. BA1/LAX1 mRNA expression coincided with the initiation of leaves and associated AMs in the vegetative meristems of broccoli, medicago, and papaya implicating a role for the lineage in the formation of AMs in eudicots as well as monocots. Expression on the adaxial surface of lateral inflorescence structures was conserved in all sampled flowering plants, whereas mRNA expression in leaves of Arabidopsis, broccoli, and papaya also links BA1/LAX1 co-orthologs with roles in regulating leaf development, possibly as a downstream target of auxin regulating genes. Together these data point to roles for BA1/LAX1 genes during AM formation, leaf, and inflorescence development in diverse flowering plants and lend support to the hypothesis that the same genetic mechanisms regulate the development of different AM types.
Rhizomatousness is a key component of perenniality of many grasses that contribute to competitiveness and invasiveness of many noxious grass weeds, but can potentially be used to develop perennial cereal crops for sustainable farmers in hilly areas of tropical Asia. Oryza longistaminata, a perennial wild rice with strong rhizomes, has been used as the model species for genetic and molecular dissection of rhizome development and in breeding efforts to transfer rhizome-related traits into annual rice species. In this study, an effort was taken to get insights into the genes and molecular mechanisms underlying the rhizomatous trait in O. longistaminata by comparative analysis of the genome-wide tissue-specific gene expression patterns of five different tissues of O. longistaminata using the Affymetrix GeneChip Rice Genome Array. A total of 2,566 tissue-specific genes were identified in five different tissues of O. longistaminata, including 58 and 61 unique genes that were specifically expressed in the rhizome tips (RT) and internodes (RI), respectively. In addition, 162 genes were up-regulated and 261 genes were down-regulated in RT compared to the shoot tips. Six distinct cis-regulatory elements (CGACG, GCCGCC, GAGAC, AACGG, CATGCA, and TAAAG) were found to be significantly more abundant in the promoter regions of genes differentially expressed in RT than in the promoter regions of genes uniformly expressed in all other tissues. Many of the RT and/or RI specifically or differentially expressed genes were located in the QTL regions associated with rhizome expression, rhizome abundance and rhizome growth-related traits in O. longistaminata and thus are good candidate genes for these QTLs. The initiation and development of the rhizomatous trait in O. longistaminata are controlled by very complex gene networks involving several plant hormones and regulatory genes, different members of gene families showing tissue specificity and their regulated pathways. Auxin/IAA appears to act as a negative regulator in rhizome development, while GA acts as the activator in rhizome development. Co-localization of the genes specifically expressed in rhizome tips and rhizome internodes with the QTLs for rhizome traits identified a large set of candidate genes for rhizome initiation and development in rice for further confirmation.
Plant bZIP transcription factors play crucial roles in multiple biological processes. However, little is known about the sorghum bZIP gene family although the sorghum genome has been completely sequenced. In this study, we have carried out a genome-wide identification and characterization of this gene family in sorghum. Our data show that the genome encodes at least 92 bZIP transcription factors. These bZIP genes have been expanded mainly by segmental duplication. Such an expansion mechanism has also been observed in rice, arabidopsis and many other plant organisms, suggesting a common expansion mode of this gene family in plants. Further investigation shows that most of the bZIP members have been present in the most recent common ancestor of sorghum and rice and the major expansion would occur before the sorghum-rice split era. Although these bZIP genes have been duplicated with a long history, they exhibited limited functional divergence as shown by nonsynonymous substitutions (Ka)/synonymous substitutions (Ks) analyses. Their retention was mainly due to the high percentages of expression divergence. Our data also showed that this gene family might play a role in multiple developmental stages and tissues and might be regarded as important regulators of various abiotic stresses and sugar signaling.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) exist in various eukaryotes and function in detoxification of xenobiotics and in response to abiotic and biotic stresses. We have carried out a genome-wide survey of this gene family in 10 plant genomes. Our data show that tandem duplication has been regarded as the major expansion mechanism and both monocot and dicot plants may have practiced different expansion and evolutionary history. Non-synonymous substitutions per site (Ka) and synonymous substitutions per site (Ks) analyses showed that N- and C-terminal functional domains of GSTs (GST_N and GST_C) seem to have evolved under a strong purifying selection (Ka/Ks < 1) under different selective pressures. Differential evolutionary rates between GST_N and GST_C and high degree of expression divergence have been regarded as the major drivers for the retention of duplicated genes and the adaptability to various stresses. Expression profiling also indicated that the gene family plays a role not only in stress-related biological processes but also in the sugar-signalling pathway. Our survey provides additional annotation of the plant GST gene family and advance the understanding of plant GSTs in lineage-specific expansion and species diversification.
The Dof (DNA binding with One Finger) family represents a classic zinc-finger transcription factors involved with multifarious roles exclusively in plants. There exists great diversity in terms of number of Dof genes observed in different crops. In current study, a total of 28 putative Dof genes have been predicted in silico from the recently available whole genome shotgun sequence of Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench (with assigned accession numbers TPA:BK006983-BK007006 and TPA:BK007079-BK007082). The predicted SbDof genes are distributed on nine out of ten chromosomes of sorghum and most of these genes lack introns based on canonical intron/exon structure. Phylogenetic analysis of 28 SbDof proteins resulted in four subgroups constituting six clusters. The comparative phylogenetic analysis of these Dof proteins along with 30 rice and 36 Arabidopsis Dof proteins revealed six major groups similar to what has been observed earlier for rice and Arabidopsis. Motif analysis revealed the presence of conserved 50-52 amino acids Dof domain uniformly distributed across all the 28 Dof proteins of sorghum. The in silico cis-regulatory elements analysis of these SbDof genes suggested its diverse functions associated with light responsiveness, endosperm specific gene expression, hormone responsiveness, meristem specific expression and stress responsiveness.
A large proportion of the nitrate (NO(3)(-)) acquired by plants from soil is actively transported via members of the NRT families of NO(3)(-) transporters. In Arabidopsis, the NRT1 family has eight functionally characterised members and predominantly comprises low-affinity transporters; the NRT2 family contains seven members which appear to be high-affinity transporters; and there are two NRT3 (NAR2) family members which are known to participate in high-affinity transport. A modified reciprocal best hit (RBH) approach was used to identify putative orthologues of the Arabidopsis NRT genes in the four fully sequenced grass genomes (maize, rice, sorghum, Brachypodium). We also included the poplar genome in our analysis to establish whether differences between Arabidopsis and the grasses may be generally applicable to monocots and dicots. Our analysis reveals fundamental differences between Arabidopsis and the grass species in the gene number and family structure of all three families of NRT transporters. All grass species possessed additional NRT1.1 orthologues and appear to lack NRT1.6/NRT1.7 orthologues. There is significant separation in the NRT2 phylogenetic tree between NRT2 genes from dicots and grass species. This indicates that determination of function of NRT2 genes in grass species will not be possible in cereals based simply on sequence homology to functionally characterised Arabidopsis NRT2 genes and that proper functional analysis will be required. Arabidopsis has a unique NRT3.2 gene which may be a fusion of the NRT3.1 and NRT3.2 genes present in all other species examined here. This work provides a framework for future analysis of NO(3)(-) transporters and NO(3)(-) transport in grass crop species.
BURP domain-containing genes comprise a large plant-specific family, yet the functions are very poorly understood, especially in maize (Zea mays) and sorghum (Sorghum vulgare). In this study, 26 BURP family genes in maize (ZmBURP01-15) and sorghum (SbBURP01-11) were identified including the gene structure, phylogenetic relationship, conserved protein motifs and chromosome locations. These genes have diverse exon-intron structures and distinct organization of putative motifs. The distributions of the genes vary: 15 ZmBURP genes are located in maize on five chromosomes, and 11 SbBURP genes in sorghum are on six chromosomes. Based on the phylogenetic analysis of BURP protein sequences from maize, sorghum and other plants, the BURP genes in maize and sorghum were categorized into five subfamilies (RD22-like, PG1β-like, BURP VI, BURP VII and BURP VIII). Transcript level analysis of ZmBURP genes revealed the expression patterns of BURP genes in maize under diffferent stress conditions. The results suggested that only eight ZmBURP genes were responsive to at least one of the stress treatments applied. Among these genes, seven genes (ZmBURP04, ZmBURP05, ZmBURP08, ZmBURP09, ZmBURP12, ZmBURP14, ZmBURP15) were responsive to ABA and cold respectively, two genes (ZmBURP06 and ZmBURP14) were responsive to NaCl. The results presented here provide useful information for further functional analysis of the BURP gene family in maize and sorghum.
Proteins abundant in seeds during the late stages of development, late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins, are associated with desiccation tolerance. More than 100 of the group I LEA genes, also termed Em genes, have been identified from plants, bacteria and animals. The wide distribution indicates the functional importance of these genes. In the present study, we characterized a novel Em-like gene, OsLEA1a of rice (Oryza sativa). The encoded OsLEA1a protein has an N-terminal sequence similar to that of other plant Em proteins but lacks a 20-mer motif that is the most significant feature of typical Em proteins. The location of the sole intron indicates that the second exon of OsLEA1a is the mutated product of a typical Em gene. Transcriptome analysis revealed OsLEA1a mainly expressed in embryos, with no or only a few transcripts in osmotic stress-treated vegetative tissues. Structural analysis revealed that the OsLEA1a protein adopts high amounts of disordered conformations in solution and undergoes desiccation-induced conformational changes. Macromolecular interaction studies revealed that OsLEA1a protein interacts with non-reducing sugars and phospholipids but not poly-l-lysine. Thus, although the OsLEA1a protein lost its 20-mer motif, it is still involved in the formation of bioglasses with non-reducing sugars or plasma membrane. However, the protein does not function as a chaperone as do other groups of hydrophilic LEA proteins. The orthologs of the OsLEA1a gene had been identified from various grasses but not in dicot plants. Genetic analysis indicated that rice OsLEA1a locates at a 193 kb segment in chromosome 1 and is conserved in several published cereal genomes. Thus, the ancestor of Em-like genes might have evolved after the divergence of monocot plants.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small regulatory RNAs, some of which are conserved in diverse plant genomes. Therefore, computational identification and further experimental validation of miRNAs from non-model organisms is both feasible and instrumental for addressing miRNA-based gene regulation and evolution. Sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) is an important biofuel crop with publicly available expressed sequence tag and genomic survey sequence databases, but little is known about miRNAs and their targets in this highly polyploid species. In this study, we have computationally identified 19 distinct sugarcane miRNA precursors, of which several are highly similar with their sorghum homologs at both nucleotide and secondary structure levels. The accumulation pattern of mature miRNAs varies in organs/tissues from the commercial sugarcane hybrid as well as in its corresponding founder species S. officinarum and S. spontaneum. Using sugarcane MIR827 as a query, we found a novel MIR827 precursor in the sorghum genome. Based on our computational tool, a total of 46 potential targets were identified for the 19 sugarcane miRNAs. Several targets for highly conserved miRNAs are transcription factors that play important roles in plant development. Conversely, target genes of lineage-specific miRNAs seem to play roles in diverse physiological processes, such as SsCBP1. SsCBP1 was experimentally confirmed to be a target for the monocot-specific miR528. Our findings support the notion that the regulation of SsCBP1 by miR528 is shared at least within graminaceous monocots, and this miRNA-based post-transcriptional regulation evolved exclusively within the monocots lineage after the divergence from eudicots. Using publicly available nucleotide databases, 19 sugarcane miRNA precursors and one new sorghum miRNA precursor were identified and classified into 14 families. Comparative analyses between sugarcane and sorghum suggest that these two species retain homologous miRNAs and targets in their genomes. Such conservation may help to clarify specific aspects of miRNA regulation and evolution in the polyploid sugarcane. Finally, our dataset provides a framework for future studies on sugarcane RNAi-dependent regulatory mechanisms.
Cassava (Manihot esculenta) is a eudicotyledonous plant that produces the valine- and isoleucine-derived cyanogenic glucosides linamarin and lotaustralin with the corresponding oximes and cyanohydrins as key intermediates. CYP79 enzymes catalyzing amino acid-to-oxime conversion in cyanogenic glucoside biosynthesis are known from several plants including cassava. The enzyme system converting oxime into cyanohydrin has previously only been identified in the monocotyledonous plant great millet (Sorghum bicolor). Using this great millet CYP71E1 sequence as a query in a Basic Local Alignment Search Tool-p search, a putative functional homolog that exhibited an approximately 50% amino acid sequence identity was found in cassava. The corresponding full-length cDNA clone was obtained from a plasmid library prepared from cassava shoot tips and was assigned CYP71E7. Heterologous expression of CYP71E7 in yeast afforded microsomes converting 2-methylpropanal oxime (valine-derived oxime) and 2-methylbutanal oxime (isoleucine-derived oxime) to the corresponding cyanohydrins, which dissociate into acetone and 2-butanone, respectively, and hydrogen cyanide. The volatile ketones were detected as 2.4-dinitrophenylhydrazone derivatives by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. A K(S) of approximately 0.9 μm was determined for 2-methylbutanal oxime based on substrate-binding spectra. CYP71E7 exhibits low specificity for the side chain of the substrate and catalyzes the conversion of aliphatic and aromatic oximes with turnovers of approximately 21, 17, 8, and 1 min(-1) for the oximes derived from valine, isoleucine, tyrosine, and phenylalanine, respectively. A second paralog of CYP71E7 was identified by database searches and showed approximately 90% amino acid sequence identity. In tube in situ polymerase chain reaction showed that in nearly unfolded leaves, the CYP71E7 paralogs are preferentially expressed in specific cells in the endodermis and in most cells in the first cortex cell layer. In fully unfolded leaves, the expression is pronounced in the cortex cell layer just beside the epidermis and in specific cells in the vascular tissue cortex cells. Thus, the transcripts of the CYP71E7 paralogs colocalize with CYP79D1 and CYP79D2. We conclude that CYP71E7 is the oxime-metabolizing enzyme in cyanogenic glucoside biosynthesis in cassava.
WUSCHEL-related homeobox (WOX) genes form a large gene family specifically expressed in plants. They are known to play important roles in regulating the development of plant tissues and organs by determining cell fate. Recent available whole genome sequences allow us to do more comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of the WOX genes in plants. In the present study, we identified 11 and 21 WOXs from sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and maize (Zea mays), respectively. The 72 WOX genes from rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum, maize, Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and poplar (Populus trichocarpa) were grouped into three well supported clades with nine subgroups according to the amino acid sequences of their homodomains. Their phylogenetic relationship was also supported by the observation of the motifs outside the homodomain. We observed the variation of duplication events among the nine sub-groups between monocots and eudicots, for instance, more gene duplication events of WOXs within subgroup A for monocots, while, less for dicots in this subgroup. Furthermore, we observed the conserved intron/exon structural patterns of WOX genes in rice, sorghum and Arabidopsis. In addition, WUS (Wuschel)-box and EAR (the ERF-associated amphiphilic repression)-like motif were observed to be conserved among several WOX subgroups in these five plants. Comparative analysis of expression patterns of WOX genes in rice and Arabidopsis suggest that the WOX genes play conserved and various roles in plants. This work provides insights into the evolution of the WOX gene family and is useful for future research.
The potential of using vector-free minimal gene cassettes (MGCs) with a double terminator for the enhancement and stabilization of transgene expression was tested in sugarcane biolistic transformation. The MGC system used consisted of the enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP) reporter gene driven by the maize ubiquitin-1 (Ubi) promoter and a single or double terminator from nopaline synthase (Tnos) or/and Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S (35ST). Transient EYFP expression from Tnos or 35ST single terminator MGC was very low and unstable, typically peaking early (8-16 h) and diminishing rapidly (48-72 h) after bombardment. Addition of a ~260 bp vector sequence (VS) to the single MGC downstream of Tnos (Tnos + VS) or 35ST (35ST + VS) enhanced EYFP expression by 1.25- to 25-fold. However, a much more significant increase in EYFP expression was achieved when the VS in 35ST + VS was replaced by Tnos to generate a 35ST-Tnos double terminator MGC, reaching its maximum at 24 h post-bombardment. The enhanced EYFP expression from the double terminator MGC was maintained for a long period of time (168 h), resulting in an overall increase of 5- to 65-fold and 10- to 160-fold as compared to the 35ST and Tnos single terminator MGCs, respectively. The efficiency of the double terminator MGC in enhancing EYFP expression was also demonstrated in sorghum and tobacco, suggesting that the underlying mechanism is highly conserved among monocots and dicots. Our results also suggest the involvement of posttranscriptional gene silencing in the reduced and unstable transgene expression from single terminator MGCs in plants.
Tandemly arrayed genes (TAGs) account for about one-third of the duplicated genes in eukaryotic genomes. They provide raw genetic material for biological evolution, and play important roles in genome evolution. The 22-kDa prolamin genes in cereal genomes represent typical TAG organization, and provide the good material to investigate gene amplification of TAGs in closely related grass genomes. Here, we isolated and sequenced the Coix 22-kDa prolamin (coixin) gene cluster (283 kb), and carried out a comparative analysis with orthologous 22-kDa prolamin gene clusters from maize and sorghum. The 22-kDa prolamin gene clusters descended from orthologous ancestor genes, but underwent independent gene amplification paths after the separation of these species, therefore varied dramatically in sequence and organization. Our analysis indicated that the gene amplification model of 22-kDa prolamin gene clusters can be divided into three major stages. In the first stage, rare gene duplications occurred from the ancestor gene copy accidentally. In the second stage, rounds of gene amplification occurred by unequal crossing over to form tandem gene array(s). In the third stage, gene array was further diverged by other genomic activities, such as transposon insertions, segmental rearrangements, etc. Unlike their highly conserved sequences, the amplified 22-kDa prolamin genes diverged rapidly at their expression capacities and expression levels. Such processes had no apparent correlation to age or order of amplified genes within TAG cluster, suggesting a fast evolving nature of TAGs after gene amplification. These results provided insights into the amplification and evolution of TAG families in grasses.
Gene order and content differ among homologous regions of closely related genomes. Similarities in the expression profiles of physically adjacent genes suggest that the proper functioning of these genes depends on maintaining a specific position relative to each other. To better understand the results of the interaction of these two genomic forces, convergent, divergent, and tandem gene pairs in rice and sorghum, as well as their homologs in rice, sorghum, maize, and Brachypodium were analyzed. The status of each pair in all four species: whether it was conserved, inverted, rearranged, or missing homologs was determined. We observed that divergent gene pairs had lower rates of conservation than convergent or tandem pairs, but higher rates of rearranged pairs and missing homologs in maize than in any other species. We also discovered species-specific gene pairs in rice and sorghum. In rice, gene pairs with strongly correlated expression levels were conserved significantly more often than those with little or no correlation. We assigned three types of gene pair to one of 14 possible evolutionary history categories to uncover their evolutionary dynamics during the evolution of grass genomes.
Alkylresorcinols are members of an extensive family of bioactive compounds referred to as phenolic lipids, which occur primarily in plants, fungi, and bacteria. In plants, alkylresorcinols and their derivatives are thought to serve important roles as phytoanticipins and allelochemicals, although direct evidence for this is still somewhat lacking. Specialized type III polyketide synthases (referred to as 'alkylresorcinol synthases'), which catalyze the formation of 5-alkylresorcinols using fatty acyl-CoA starter units and malonyl-CoA extender units, have been characterized from several microbial species, however until very recently little has been known concerning their plant counterparts. Through the use of sorghum and rice EST and genomic data sets, significant inroads have now been made in this regard. Here we provide additional information concerning our recent report on the identification and characterization of alkylresorcinol synthases from Sorghum bicolor and Oryza sativa, as well as a brief consideration of the emergence of this intriguing subfamily of enzymes.
Grain dietary fiber content in wheat not only affects its end use and technological properties including milling, baking and animal feed but is also of great importance for health benefits. In this study, integration of association genetics (seven detected loci on chromosomes 1B, 3A, 3D, 5B, 6B, 7A, 7B) and meta-QTL (three consensus QTL on chromosomes 1B, 3D and 6B) analyses allowed the identification of seven chromosomal regions underlying grain dietary fiber content in bread wheat. Based either on a diversity panel or on bi-parental populations, we clearly demonstrate that this trait is mainly driven by a major locus located on chromosome 1B associated with a log of p value >13 and a LOD score >8, respectively. In parallel, we identified 73 genes differentially expressed during the grain development and between genotypes with contrasting grain fiber contents. Integration of quantitative genetics and transcriptomic data allowed us to propose a short list of candidate genes that are conserved in the rice, sorghum and Brachypodium chromosome regions orthologous to the seven wheat grain fiber content QTL and that can be considered as major candidate genes for future improvement of the grain dietary fiber content in bread wheat breeding programs.
In rice, the GW2 gene, found on chromosome 2, controls grain width and weight. Two homologs of this gene, ZmGW2-CHR4 and ZmGW2-CHR5, have been found in maize. In this study, we investigated the relationship, evolutionary fate and putative function of these two maize genes. The two genes are located on duplicated maize chromosomal regions that show co-orthologous relationships with the rice region containing GW2. ZmGW2-CHR5 is more closely related to the sorghum counterpart than to ZmGW2-CHR4. Sequence comparisons between the two genes in eight diverse maize inbred lines revealed that the functional protein domain of both genes is completely conserved, with no non-synonymous polymorphisms identified. This suggests that both genes may have conserved functions, a hypothesis that was further confirmed through linkage, association, and expression analyses. Linkage analysis showed that ZmGW2-CHR4 is located within a consistent quantitative trait locus (QTL) for one-hundred kernel weight (HKW). Association analysis with a diverse panel of 121 maize inbred lines identified one single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the promoter region of ZmGW2-CHR4 that was significantly associated with kernel width (KW) and HKW across all three field experiments examined in this study. SNPs or insertion/deletion polymorphisms (InDels) in other regions of ZmGW2-CHR4 and ZmGW2-CHR5 were also found to be significantly associated with at least one of the four yield-related traits (kernel length (KL), kernel thickness (KT), KW and HKW). None of the polymorphisms in either maize gene are similar to each other or to the 1 bp InDel causing phenotypic variation in rice. Expression levels of both maize genes vary over ear and kernel developmental stages, and the expression level of ZmGW2-CHR4 is significantly negatively correlated with KW. The sequence, linkage, association and expression analyses collectively showed that the two maize genes represent chromosomal duplicates, both of which function to control some of the phenotypic variation for kernel size and weight in maize, as does their counterpart in rice. However, the different polymorphisms identified in the two maize genes and in the rice gene indicate that they may cause phenotypic variation through different mechanisms.
cDNA fragments of lea3 genes with a high GC content (from 68 to 77%) were found in several Poaceae, including Sorghum vulgare, Saccharum officinarum, Oryza officinalis, Oryza meyeriana, Ampelocalamus calcareus, Cynodon dactylon, and Zizania latifoli. They were successfully isolated by means of optimal experimental parameters, which included dimethyl sulfoxide as additive and degenerate primers "AGETKAS" and "AGKDKTG", and their sequences were analyzed. Compared to the method of isolating genes by screening of a cDNA library using abscisic acid- and other stress-responsive cDNA clones, which is time-consuming and costly, this method is relatively easy and inexpensive. Using this new method, many new homologue lea3 genes were rapidly determined.
The specific transport of metal ions, mediated by membrane-localized metal transporters, is of fundamental importance in all eukaryotes. Genome-wide analysis of metal transporters was undertaken, making use of whole genome sequences of the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, the moss Physcomitrella patens, the lycophyte Selaginella moellendorffii, the monocots rice and sorghum, and the dicots Arabidopsis thaliana, poplar, grapevine, as well as of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A repertoire of 430 metal transporters was found in total across eight photosynthetic plants, as well as in S. cerevisiae. Seventy-two full-length metal transporter genes were identified in the Populus genome alone, which is the largest number of metal transporters genes identified in any single species to date. Diversification of some transporter family gene clusters appears to have occurred in a lineage-specific manner. Expression analysis of Populus metal transporters indicates that some family members show tissue-specific transcript abundance. Taken together, the data provide a picture into the diversification of these important gene families.
Sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS) is an important component of the plant sucrose biosynthesis pathway. In the monocotyledonous Poaceae, five SPS genes have been identified. Here we present a detailed analysis of the wheat SPSII family in wheat. A set of homoeologue-specific primers was developed in order to permit both the detection of sequence variation, and the dissection of the individual contribution of each homoeologue to the global expression of SPSII. The expression in bread wheat over the course of development of various sucrose biosynthesis genes monitored on an Affymetrix array showed that the SPS genes were regulated over time and space. SPSII homoeologue-specific assays were used to show that the three homoeologues contributed differentially to the global expression of SPSII. Genetic mapping placed the set of homoeoloci on the short arms of the homoeologous group 3 chromosomes. A resequencing of the A and B genome copies allowed the detection of four haplotypes at each locus. The 3B copy includes an unspliced intron. A comparison of the sequences of the wheat SPSII orthologues present in the diploid progenitors einkorn, goatgrass and Triticum speltoides, as well as in the more distantly related species barley, rice, sorghum and purple false brome demonstrated that intronic sequence was less well conserved than exonic. Comparative sequence and phylogenetic analysis of SPSII gene showed that false purple brome was more similar to Triticeae than to rice. Wheat - rice synteny was found to be perturbed at the SPS region. The homoeologue-specific assays will be suitable to derive associations between SPS functionality and key phenotypic traits. The amplicon sequences derived from the homoeologue-specific primers are informative regarding the evolution of SPSII in a polyploid context.
Soybean plants are promising bioreactors for the expression of biochemically complex proteins that cannot be produced in a safe and/or economically viable way in microorganisms, eukaryotic culture cells or secreted by transgenic animal glands. Soybeans present many desirable agronomic characteristics for high scale protein production, such as high productivity, short reproductive cycle, photoperiod sensitivity, and natural organs destined for protein accumulation in the seeds. The significant similarities between plant and human cells in terms of protein synthesis processes, folding, assembly, and post-translational processing are important for efficient accumulation of recombinant proteins. We obtained two transgenic lines using biolystics, incorporating the human proinsulin gene under control of the monocot tissue-specific promoter from sorghum gamma-kafirin seed storage protein gene and the alpha-coixin cotyledonary vacuolar signal peptide from Coix lacryma-jobi (Poaceae). Transgenic plants expressed the proinsulin gene and accumulated the polypeptide in mature seeds. Protein targeting to cotyledonary protein storage vacuoles was successfully achieved and confirmed with immunocytochemistry assays. The combination of different regulatory sequences was apparently responsible for high stability in protein accumulation, since human proinsulin was detected after seven years under room temperature storage conditions.
Sweet sorghum has substantial potential as a biofuel feedstock, with advantages in some environments over alternatives such as sugarcane or maize. Gene technologies are likely to be important to achieve yields sufficient for food, fuel and fibre production from available global croplands, but sorghum has proven difficult to transform. Tissue culture recalcitrance and poor reproducibility of transformation protocols remain major challenges for grain sorghum, and there has been no reported success for sweet sorghum. Here we describe a repeatable transformation system for sweet sorghum, based on (1) optimized tissue culture conditions for embryogenic callus production with >90% regenerability in 12-week-old calli, and (2) an effective selection regimen for hygromycin resistance conferred by a Ubi-hpt transgene following particle bombardment. Using this method, we have produced sixteen independent transgenic lines from multiple batches at an overall efficiency of 0.09% transformants per excised immature embryo. Co-expression frequency of a non-selected luciferase reporter was 62.5%. Transgene integration and expression were confirmed in T(0) and T(1) plants by Southern analysis and luciferase assays. This success using the major international sweet sorghum cultivar Ramada provides a foundation for molecular improvement of sweet sorghum through the use of transgenes. Factors likely to be important for success with other sweet sorghum cultivars are identified.
3-Deoxyanthocyanidins are the unique phytoalexins synthesized by sorghum in response to fungal inoculation. They are structurally related to anthocyanins but the final steps of their pathogen-inducible biosynthesis are not fully understood. We have identified new flavonoid structural genes from the recently completed sorghum BTx623 genome sequence. The biochemical functions of the different expressed sorghum genes were established in planta by complementation in the appropriate Arabidopsis transparent testa mutants. There is a family of nine chalcone synthase genes which are all inducible by fungal inoculation in sorghum seedlings. Specific dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR) genes responsive to conditions which stimulated anthocyanin accumulation (SbDFR1) or 3-deoxyanthocyanidin production (SbDFR3) were identified. Recombinant SbDFR1 and SbDFR3 were found to function as typical DFRs by accepting dihydroflavonol substrates. On the other hand, both DFRs showed substantially lower but detectable NADPH-dependent activities toward flavanones. Reduction of flavanones to flavan-4-ols is a reaction step required for 3-deoxyanthocyanidin production. Flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H) converts flavanones to dihydroflavonols for anthocyanin biosynthesis. In sorghum seedlings, expression of two F3H genes was either absent or strongly suppressed during the accumulation of 3-deoxyanthocyanidins. Under such conditions, most flavanones are expected to be reduced by the pathogen-induced SbDFR3 for the formation of flavan-4-ols. Our work also revealed that 3-deoxyanthocyanidin accumulation and SbDFR3 expression were induced by methyl jasmonate treatment in sorghum roots but the stimulation effects were antagonized by salicylic acid.
Auxin is transported by the influx carriers auxin resistant 1/like aux1 (AUX/LAX), and the efflux carriers pin-formed (PIN) and P-glycoprotein (PGP), which play a major role in polar auxin transport. Several auxin transporter genes have been characterized in dicotyledonous Arabidopsis, but most are unknown in monocotyledons, especially in sorghum. Here, we analyze the chromosome distribution, gene duplication and intron/exon of SbPIN, SbLAX and SbPGP gene families, and examine their phylogenic relationships in Arabidopsis, rice and sorghum. Real-time PCR analysis demonstrated that most of these genes were differently expressed in the organs of sorghum. SbPIN3 and SbPIN9 were highly expressed in flowers, SbLAX2 and SbPGP17 were mainly expressed in stems, and SbPGP7 was strongly expressed in roots. This suggests that individual genes might participate in specific organ development. The expression profiles of these gene families were analyzed after treatment with: (a) the phytohormones indole-3-acetic acid and brassinosteroid; (b) the polar auxin transport inhibitors 1-naphthoxyacetic acids, 1-naphthylphthalamic acid and 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid; and (c) abscissic acid and the abiotic stresses of high salinity and drought. Most of the auxin transporter genes were strongly induced by indole-3-acetic acid and brassinosteroid, providing new evidence for the synergism of these phytohormones. Interestingly, most genes showed similar trends in expression under polar auxin transport inhibitors and each also responded to abscissic acid, salt and drought. This study provides new insights into the auxin transporters of sorghum.
Aluminium (Al) toxicity is a major agricultural constraint for crop cultivation on acid soils, which comprise a large portion of the world's arable land. One of the most widely accepted mechanisms of Al tolerance in plants is based on Al-activated organic acid release into the rhizosphere, with organic acids forming stable, non-toxic complexes with Al. This mechanism has recently been validated by the isolation of bona-fide Al-tolerance genes in crop species, which encode membrane transporters that mediate Al-activated organic acid release leading to Al exclusion from root apices. In crop species such as sorghum and barley, members in the multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) family underlie Al tolerance by a mechanism based on Al-activated citrate release. The study of Al tolerance in plants as conferred by MATE family members is in its infancy. Therefore, much is yet to be discovered about the functional diversity and evolutionary dynamics that led MATE proteins to acquire transport properties conducive to Al tolerance in plants. In this paper we review the major characteristics of transporters in the MATE family and will relate this knowledge to Al tolerance in plants. The MATE family is clearly extremely flexible with respect to substrate specificity, which raises the possibility that Al tolerance as encoded by MATE proteins may not be restricted to Al-activated citrate release in plant species. There are also indications that regulatory loci may be of pivotal importance to fully explore the potential for Al-tolerance improvement based on MATE genes.
Sorghum, a C4 model plant, has been studied to develop an understanding of the molecular mechanism of resistance to stress. The auxin-response genes, auxin/indole-3-acetic acid (Aux/IAA), auxin-response factor (ARF), Gretchen Hagen3 (GH3), small auxin-up RNAs, and lateral organ boundaries (LBD), are involved in growth/development and stress/defense responses in Arabidopsis and rice, but they have not been studied in sorghum. In the present paper, the chromosome distribution, gene duplication, promoters, intron/exon, and phylogenic relationships of Aux/IAA, ARF, GH3, and LBD genes in sorghum are presented. Furthermore, real-time PCR analysis demonstrated these genes are differently expressed in leaf/root of sorghum and indicated the expression profile of these gene families under IAA, brassinosteroid (BR), salt, and drought treatments. The SbGH3 and SbLBD genes, expressed in low level under natural condition, were highly induced by salt and drought stress consistent with their products being involved in both abiotic stresses. Three genes, SbIAA1, SbGH3-13, and SbLBD32, were highly induced under all the four treatments, IAA, BR, salt, and drought. The analysis provided new evidence for role of auxin in stress response, implied there are cross talk between auxin, BR and abiotic stress signaling pathways.
Genes coding for drought response element binding (DREB) proteins regulate transcription of a large number of downstream genes involved in the plant response to abiotic stresses. However the regulation of DREB genes themselves is not well understood. Using a bioinformatics approach, we identified the over-represented motifs in promoters of DREB genes of sorghum and rice as compared to all the other promoters in their genomes. Aligned orthologous promoter pairs of sorghum and rice DREBs were then used to identify co-localized motifs from among the over-represented ones, assuming that such motifs were likely to play a regulatory role. Finally the motifs over-represented in sorghum DREBs in comparison to their rice orthologs were identified. Results indicated over-representation of motifs pertaining to calcium, light, sugar, and hormone signaling in the DREB promoters. The co-localized motifs in DREB promoters were mainly those involved in abscisic acid-, light- and calcium-mediated regulation. These motifs along with others pertaining to ethylene signaling were over-represented in sorghum DREB promoters as compared to their orthologs from rice and could possibly contribute to its drought tolerance. Besides calcium, an integration of abscisic acid, ethylene, auxin and methyl jasmonate signaling was probably involved in regulating expression of the drought response through DREB transcription factors.
The third, or wobble, position in a codon provides a high degree of possible degeneracy and is an elegant fault-tolerance mechanism. Nucleotide biases between organisms at the wobble position have been documented and correlated with the abundances of the complementary tRNAs. We and others have noticed a bias for cytosine and guanine at the third position in a subset of transcripts within a single organism. The bias is present in some plant species and warm-blooded vertebrates but not in all plants, or in invertebrates or cold-blooded vertebrates. Here we demonstrate that in certain organisms the amount of GC at the wobble position (GC3) can be used to distinguish two classes of genes. We highlight the following features of genes with high GC3 content: they (1) provide more targets for methylation, (2) exhibit more variable expression, (3) more frequently possess upstream TATA boxes, (4) are predominant in certain classes of genes (e.g., stress responsive genes) and (5) have a GC3 content that increases from 5'to 3'. These observations led us to formulate a hypothesis to explain GC3 bimodality in grasses. Our findings suggest that high levels of GC3 typify a class of genes whose expression is regulated through DNA methylation or are a legacy of accelerated evolution through gene conversion. We discuss the three most probable explanations for GC3 bimodality: biased gene conversion, transcriptional and translational advantage and gene methylation.
This study was designed to quantitatively analyze the expression of thaumatin-like protein (TLP) at the transcriptional level in different sorghum lines when they were infested with greenbugs. Three sorghum lines, Tx7000, PI550607, and PI550610, were used. RNAs were isolated from the different sorghum lines that were infested with greenbugs at different infestation times. The resultant mRNA was reverse transcribed into cDNA, and the RT-PCR products were separated by agarose gel. Then, real-time PCR data of the TLP gene expression were analyzed in comparison with the beta-actin gene as a reference. The expression levels of the TLP gene were also compared between samples. The results showed that the transcripts of the TLP were induced by greenbug feeding and the increased levels were time-dependent. In the susceptible line, the TLP's transcripts increased several thousand-fold at 120 hours post infestation, while for the two resistant sorghum lines the TLP expression level increased less than one hundred-fold compared to the controls. This is the first demonstration that thaumatin-like proteins are involved in plant defense response against insects.
Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi inhabit the root cortical cells of most plants and obtain photosynthates from the host plants while they transfer mineral nutrients from the soil to the hosts. In this review, we first summarize recent progress regarding signal molecules involved in the recognition of each symbiont, the signaling pathways in the host plants, and the characteristics of AM-inducible nutrient transporters, which were elucidated mainly using model legumes. Then, we summarize studies on the colonization by AM fungi of lower plants and of the roots of major crops. There are not only "AM-responsive" crops like maize, sorghum, and soybean but also "AM-nonresponsive" ones like wheat, barley, and rice. Finally, we mention the worldwide problems of limited and biased agricultural resources and discuss future directions as to how we can make use of AM symbiosis for improving crop production and establishing sustainable agriculture.
The photosynthetic phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (C(4)-PEPC) is regulated by phosphorylation by a phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase kinase (PEPC-k). In Digitaria sanguinalis mesophyll protoplasts, this light-mediated transduction cascade principally requires a phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC) and a Ca(2+)-dependent step. The present study investigates the cascade components at the higher integrated level of Sorghum bicolor leaf discs and leaves. PEPC-k up-regulation required light and photosynthetic electron transport. However, the PI-PLC inhibitor U-73122 and inhibitors of calcium release from intracellular stores only partially blocked this process. Analysis of [(32)P]phosphate-labelled phospholipids showed a light-dependent increase in phospholipase D (PLD) activity. Treatment of leaf discs with n-butanol, which decreases the formation of phosphatidic acid (PA) by PLD, led to the partial inhibition of the C(4)-PEPC phosphorylation, suggesting the participation of PLD/PA in the signalling cascade. PPCK1 gene expression was strictly light-dependent. Addition of neomycin or n-butanol decreased, and a combination of both inhibitors markedly reduced PPCK1 expression and the concomitant rise in PEPC-k activity. The calcium/calmodulin antagonist W7 blocked the light-dependent up-regulation of PEPC-k, pointing to a Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinase (CDPK) integrating both second messengers, calcium and PA, which were shown to increase the activity of sorghum CDPK.
Low-dose laser irradiation can stimulate a number of biological processes and has been widely used in various fields including producing useful mutants in crop improvement. Nonetheless, the molecular and genetic basis for the mutagenic property of low-dose laser irradiation has not been elucidated. DNA cytosine methylation is sensitive and responsive to both intrinsic perturbations and environmental cues. This study was aimed to probe the possible effect of low-dose laser irradiation on stability of DNA methylation in sorghum pure-lines and intraspecific F1 hybrids. For this purpose, a pair of Sorghum bicolor L. reciprocal F1 hybrids and their parental pure-lines was used, and their germinating seeds were treated by low-dose laser irradiation. The level and pattern of DNA methylation in the plants were analyzed by methylation-sensitive amplified polymorphism (MSAP). Results showed that low-dose laser irradiation induced low-frequency but significant alterations in DNA methylation level and pattern in sorghum plants, demonstrating the treatment is epigenetically mutagenic in plants. In addition, we observed that the alteration frequency in the inter-line F1 hybrids was higher than that of their pure-line parents, suggesting an interaction of hybridity and the laser irradiation. We propose that the combined use of intraspecific hybridization and an epigenetically mutagenic treatment like low-dose laser irradiation might be a useful means to generate heritable epigenetic variations in plants.
Large number of well-filled grains per panicle is an important yield component trait in rice. A combination of QTL mapping and transcriptome profiling was used to identify candidate genes for grain number. A framework linkage map was constructed using 166 SSR markers evenly distributed over the 12 rice chromosomes. QTL mapping using 3 years phenotyping data on a set of recombinant inbred lines derived from a cross between Pusa 1266 (high grain number) and Pusa Basmati 1 (low grain number) identified one consistent QTL qGN4-1 on the long arm of chromosome 4 with major effect on grain number. This QTL was co-localized with major QTLs for primary and secondary branches per panicle, and number of panicles per plant. The QTL interval was narrowed down to 11.1 cM (0.78 Mbp) by targeted enrichment of the region with six additional markers. Microarray transcriptome profiling revealed eight genes in the qGN4-1 region differentially expressed between the two parents during early panicle development. Synteny of this QTL and potential candidates was examined in wheat, barley, maize, sorghum, and Brachypodium to further validate the association.
Transcription profiling analysis identified Saccharum hybrid DIRIGENT (SHDIR16) and Omicron-Methyltransferase (SHOMT), putative defense and fiber biosynthesis-related genes that are highly expressed in the stem of sugarcane, a major sucrose accumulator and biomass producer. Promoters (Pro) of these genes were isolated and fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. Transient and stable transgene expression analyses showed that both Pro( DIR16 ):GUS and Pro( OMT ):GUS retain the expression characteristics of their respective endogenous genes in sugarcane and function in orthologous monocot species, including rice, maize and sorghum. Furthermore, both promoters conferred stem-regulated expression, which was further enhanced in the stem and induced in the leaf and root by salicylic acid, jasmonic acid and methyl jasmonate, key regulators of biotic and abiotic stresses. Pro( DIR16 ) and Pro( OMT ) will enable functional gene analysis in monocots, and will facilitate engineering monocots for improved carbon metabolism, enhanced stress tolerance and bioenergy production.
Nucleotide binding site (NBS)-leucine-rich repeat (LRR) genes belong to the largest class of disease-resistance gene super groups in plants, and their intra- or interspecies nucleotide variations have been studied extensively to understand their evolution and function. However, little is known about the evolutionary patterns of their copy numbers in related species. Here, 129, 245, 239 and 508 NBSs were identified in maize, sorghum, brachypodium and rice, respectively, suggesting considerable variations of these genes. Based on phylogenetic relationships from a total of 496 ancestral branches of grass NBS families, three gene number variation patterns were categorized: conserved, sharing two or more species, and species-specific. Notably, the species-specific NBS branches are dominant (71.6%), while there is only a small percentage (3.83%) of conserved families. In contrast, the conserved families are dominant in 51 randomly selected house-keeping genes (96.1%). The opposite patterns between NBS and the other gene groups suggest that natural selection is responsible for the drastic number variation of NBS genes. The rapid expansion and/or contraction may be a fundamentally important strategy for a species to adapt to the quickly changing species-specific pathogen spectrum. In addition, the small proportion of conserved NBSs suggests that the loss of NBSs may be a general tendency in grass species.
Recent progress in genomics has provided complete or near complete genome sequences of several C(3) (e.g. Arabidopsis, rice, and poplar) and C(4) (e.g. sorghum and maize) plant species. These genome sequences enabled comparative quantitative proteomic and transcriptomic analyses of C(3) and C(4) plants, in particular of their chloroplasts. Such analyses have revealed a comprehensive picture of the distribution of C(4) pathway components between bundle sheath and mesophyll cell chloroplasts and they permitted the prediction of novel pathway components. A comprehensive understanding of the C(4) photosynthetic mechanism is required for the transfer of C(4)-like photosynthesis into C(3) crop plants, such as rice.
Three subfamilies of grasses, the Ehrhartoideae, Panicoideae and Pooideae, provide the bulk of human nutrition and are poised to become major sources of renewable energy. Here we describe the genome sequence of the wild grass Brachypodium distachyon (Brachypodium), which is, to our knowledge, the first member of the Pooideae subfamily to be sequenced. Comparison of the Brachypodium, rice and sorghum genomes shows a precise history of genome evolution across a broad diversity of the grasses, and establishes a template for analysis of the large genomes of economically important pooid grasses such as wheat. The high-quality genome sequence, coupled with ease of cultivation and transformation, small size and rapid life cycle, will help Brachypodium reach its potential as an important model system for developing new energy and food crops.
The ethylene-responsive element binding factor-associated amphiphilic repression (EAR) motif is a transcriptional regulatory motif identified in members of the ethylene-responsive element binding factor, C2H2, and auxin/indole-3-acetic acid families of transcriptional regulators. Sequence comparison of the core EAR motif sites from these proteins revealed two distinct conservation patterns: LxLxL and DLNxxP. Proteins containing these motifs play key roles in diverse biological functions by negatively regulating genes involved in developmental, hormonal, and stress signaling pathways. Through a genome-wide bioinformatics analysis, we have identified the complete repertoire of the EAR repressome in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) comprising 219 proteins belonging to 21 different transcriptional regulator families. Approximately 72% of these proteins contain a LxLxL type of EAR motif, 22% contain a DLNxxP type of EAR motif, and the remaining 6% have a motif where LxLxL and DLNxxP are overlapping. Published in vitro and in planta investigations support approximately 40% of these proteins functioning as negative regulators of gene expression. Comparative sequence analysis of EAR motif sites and adjoining regions has identified additional preferred residues and potential posttranslational modification sites that may influence the functionality of the EAR motif. Homology searches against protein databases of poplar (Populus trichocarpa), grapevine (Vitis vinifera), rice (Oryza sativa), and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) revealed that the EAR motif is conserved across these diverse plant species. This genome-wide analysis represents the most extensive survey of EAR motif-containing proteins in Arabidopsis to date and provides a resource enabling investigations into their biological roles and the mechanism of EAR motif-mediated transcriptional regulation.
Following inoculation with the anthracnose pathogen Colletotrichum sublineolum, seedlings of the sorghum resistant cultivar SC748-5 showed more rapid and elevated accumulation of luteolin than the susceptible cultivar BTx623. On the other hand, apigenin was the major flavone detected in infected BTx623 seedlings. Luteolin was demonstrated to show stronger inhibition of spore germination of C. sublineolum than apigenin. Because of their pathogen-inducible and antifungal nature, both flavone aglycones are considered sorghum phytoalexins. The key enzyme responsible for flavone biosynthesis has not been characterized in monocots. A sorghum pathogen-inducible gene encoding a cytochrome P450 protein (CYP93G3) in the uncharacterized CYP93G subfamily was identified. Transgenic expression of the P450 gene in Arabidopsis demonstrated that the encoded protein is a functional flavone synthase (FNS) II in planta. The sorghum gene was then termed SbFNSII. It is a single-copy gene located on chromosome 2 and the first FNSII gene characterized in a monocot. Metabolite analysis by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in precursor ion scan mode revealed the accumulation of 2-hydroxynaringenin and 2-hydroxyeriodictyol hexosides in the transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Hence, SbFNSII appears to share a similar catalytic mechanism with the licorice and Medicago truncatula FNSIIs (CYP93B subfamily) by converting flavanones to flavone through the formation of 2-hydroxyflavanones.
Glycinebetaine (GB) is a compatible solute that is accumulated by some plant species, especially under conditions leading to tissue osmotic stress. Genetic modification for accumulation of GB in an attempt to produce more stress tolerant plants has been a focus for several groups in recent years. However, attempts to increase tissue GB concentrations have been unsuccessful, with many transgenic lines accumulating far lower concentrations than naturally-occurring GB accumulators. A better understanding of the metabolic regulation of GB synthesis is necessary for successful molecular breeding and biotechnology. We utilized previously developed near-isogenic lines for GB accumulation to characterize the biochemical basis for GB deficiency in maize and sorghum. Salinity resulted in increased accumulation of choline in both accumulating and non-accumulating lines. When grown in the presence of NaCl, GB-non-accumulating lines had increased concentrations of choline and phosphocholine, but not GB. Decreased GB synthesis can be explained from the increased concentrations of phosphocholine in planta and the strong inhibition of N-phosphoethanolamine methyltransferase by phosphocholine observed in vitro. The lack of GB accumulation in GB-/- homozygous NILs was not due to the lack of the putative choline monooxygenase (the enzyme responsible for choline oxidation to betaine aldehyde) gene or protein that we describe. The previously identified bet1 locus does not appear to be choline monooxygenase. However, the lack of GB synthesis does affect the synthesis and turnover of choline moieties in GB non-accumulating lines, which may lead to alterations in overall 1-carbon metabolism in plants.
Crop yields are significantly reduced by aluminum (Al) toxicity on acidic soils, which comprise up to 50% of the world's arable land. Al-activated release of ligands (such as organic acids) from the roots is a major Al tolerance mechanism in plants. In maize, Al-activated root citrate exudation plays an important role in tolerance. However, maize Al tolerance is a complex trait involving multiple genes and physiological mechanisms. Recently, transporters from the MATE family have been shown to mediate Al-activated citrate exudation in a number of plant species. Here we describe the cloning and characterization of two MATE family members in maize, ZmMATE1 and ZmMATE2, which co-localize to major Al tolerance QTL. Both genes encode plasma membrane proteins that mediate significant anion efflux when expressed in Xenopus oocytes. ZmMATE1 expression is mostly concentrated in root tissues, is up-regulated by Al and is significantly higher in Al-tolerant maize genotypes. In contrast, ZmMATE2 expression is not specifically localized to any particular tissue and does not respond to Al. [(14)C]-citrate efflux experiments in oocytes demonstrate that ZmMATE1 is a citrate transporter. In addition, ZmMATE1 expression confers a significant increase in Al tolerance in transgenic Arabidopsis. Our data suggests that ZmMATE1 is a functional homolog of the Al tolerance genes recently characterized in sorghum, barley and Arabidopsis, and is likely to underlie the largest maize Al tolerance QTL found on chromosome 6. However, ZmMATE2 most likely does not encode a citrate transporter, and could be involved in a novel Al tolerance mechanism.
Jasmonates are known to induce the transcriptional activation of plant defense genes, which leads to the production of jasmonate-regulated proteins (JRP). We previously cloned and characterized a novel jacalin-like lectin gene (Ta-JA1) from wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), which codes a modular JRP with disease response and jacalin-related lectin (JRL) domains and is present only in the Gramineae family. The function of this protein is still unclear. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that Ta-JA1 and related proteins from cereals grouped together, which diverged from JRL with an additional N-terminal disease response domain. The recombinant Ta-JA1 proteins agglutinated rabbit erythrocytes, and this hemagglutination activity was preferentially inhibited by mannose. The Ta-JA1 protein was able to inhibit E. coli cell growth. Overexpression of Ta-JA1 in transgenic tobacco plants increased their resistance to infection by tobacco bacterial, fungal and viral pathogens. Our results suggest that Ta-JA1 belongs to a mannose-specific lectin, which may confer a basal but broad-spectrum resistance to plant pathogens. Ta-JA1 and its homologues in maize, rice, sorghum and creeping bentgrass may represent a new type of monocot lectin with a modular structure and diversity of physiological functions in biotic and abiotic stress responses.
Perennial ryegrass is an obligate outbreeding pasture grass of the Poaceae family, with a two-locus (S and Z) gametophytic self-incompatibility (SI) mechanism. This system has provided a major obstacle to targeted varietal development, and enhanced knowledge is expected to support more efficient breeding strategies. Comparative genetics and physical mapping approaches have been developed to permit molecular cloning of the SI genes. SI gene-linked genetic markers based on heterologous cDNA restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) and homologous genomic DNA-derived simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were converted to single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) format for efficient genotyping. Genetic mapping identified the location of SI loci and demonstrated macrosynteny between related grass species. S- and Z-linked bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones were sequenced using massively parallel pyrosequencing technology to provide the first physical mapping data for Poaceae SI loci. The sequence assembly process suggested a lower prevalence of middle repetitive sequences in the Z locus region and hence precedence for positional cloning strategy. In silico mapping using data from rice, Brachypodium distachyon and Sorghum revealed high sequence conservation in the vicinity of the Z locus region between SI and self-compatible (SC) grass species. Physical mapping identified a total of nine genes encoded in the Z locus region. Expression profiling and nucleotide diversity assessment identified two Z-linked genes, LpTC116908 and LpDUF247, as plausible candidates for the male and female determinants of the S-Z SI system.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, non-coding RNAs that play essential roles in plant growth, development, and stress response. We conducted a genome-wide survey of maize miRNA genes, characterizing their structure, expression, and evolution. Computational approaches based on homology and secondary structure modeling identified 150 high-confidence genes within 26 miRNA families. For 25 families, expression was verified by deep-sequencing of small RNA libraries that were prepared from an assortment of maize tissues. PCR-RACE amplification of 68 miRNA transcript precursors, representing 18 families conserved across several plant species, showed that splice variation and the use of alternative transcriptional start and stop sites is common within this class of genes. Comparison of sequence variation data from diverse maize inbred lines versus teosinte accessions suggest that the mature miRNAs are under strong purifying selection while the flanking sequences evolve equivalently to other genes. Since maize is derived from an ancient tetraploid, the effect of whole-genome duplication on miRNA evolution was examined. We found that, like protein-coding genes, duplicated miRNA genes underwent extensive gene-loss, with approximately 35% of ancestral sites retained as duplicate homoeologous miRNA genes. This number is higher than that observed with protein-coding genes. A search for putative miRNA targets indicated bias towards genes in regulatory and metabolic pathways. As maize is one of the principal models for plant growth and development, this study will serve as a foundation for future research into the functional roles of miRNA genes.
Somaclonal variation is a common phenomenon associated with plant tissue culture. Microsatellites or simple sequence repeats (SSRs) are ubiquitous components of eukaryotic genomes, and are intrinsically unstable under various stress conditions including tissue culture. Here, we assessed genetic stability of a set of 29 mapped SSR loci in calli and regenerated plants derived from a pair of reciprocal sorghum inter-strain F1 hybrids and their pure line parents. We further measured the steady-state transcripts of a set of nine mismatch repair (MMR)-encoding genes and a DEMETER (DME), a DNA glycosylase domain protein-encoding gene in these lines, and tested for a possible relationship between altered expression of a given MMR or DME gene and the SSR variations. We found that SSR variations occurred in calli and regenerated plants of both the studied pure lines though at sharply different frequencies (20.7 vs. 6.9%), but no variation was detected in calli and regenerated plants of the pair of F1 hybrids. Compared with the donor seed plants, markedly altered expression of all nine studied MMR genes and the DME gene was observed in calli, and more conspicuously, in the regenerated plants. However, only one gene, i.e., MLH3, showed an altered expression pattern that is genotype specific and significantly correlated with the occurrence of SSR instability.
Expression of the three SBE genes, encoding starch branching enzymes, in the sorghum endosperm exhibited a diurnal rhythm during a 24-h cycle. Remarkably, the oscillation in SBE expression was maintained in cultured spikes after a 48-h dark treatment, also when fed a continuous solution of sucrose or abscisic acid. Our findings suggest that the rhythmicity in SBE expression in the endosperm is independent of cues from the photosynthetic source and that the oscillator resides within the endosperm itself.
In recent years, several genetic components of vegetative axillary bud development have been defined in both monocots and eudicots, but our understanding of environmental inputs on branching remains limited. Recent work in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) has revealed a role for phytochrome B (phyB) in the control of axillary bud outgrowth through the regulation of Teosinte Branched1 (TB1) gene. In maize (Zea mays), TB1 is a dosage-dependent inhibitor of axillary meristem progression, and the expression level of TB1 is a sensitive measure of axillary branch development. To further explore the mechanistic basis of branching, the expression of branching and cell cycle-related genes were examined in phyB-1 and wild-type sorghum axillary buds following treatment with low-red : far-red light and defoliation. Although defoliation inhibited bud outgrowth, it did not influence the expression of sorghum TB1 (SbTB1), whereas changes in SbMAX2 expression, a homolog of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) branching inhibitor MAX2, were associated with the regulation of bud outgrowth by both light and defoliation. The expression of several cell cycle-related genes was also decreased dramatically in buds repressed by defoliation, but not by phyB deficiency. The data suggest that there are at least two distinct molecular pathways that respond to light and endogenous signals to regulate axillary bud outgrowth.
As a major component of plant cell wall, lignin plays important roles in mechanical support, water transport, and stress responses. As the main cause for the recalcitrance of plant cell wall, lignin modification has been a major task for bioenergy feedstock improvement. The study of the evolution and function of lignin biosynthesis genes thus has two-fold implications. First, the lignin biosynthesis pathway provides an excellent model to study the coordinative evolution of a biochemical pathway in plants. Second, understanding the function and evolution of lignin biosynthesis genes will guide us to develop better strategies for bioenergy feedstock improvement. We analyzed lignin biosynthesis genes from fourteen plant species and one symbiotic fungal species. Comprehensive comparative genome analysis was carried out to study the distribution, relatedness, and family expansion of the lignin biosynthesis genes across the plant kingdom. In addition, we also analyzed the comparative synteny map between rice and sorghum to study the evolution of lignin biosynthesis genes within the Poaceae family and the chromosome evolution between the two species. Comprehensive lignin biosynthesis gene expression analysis was performed in rice, poplar and Arabidopsis. The representative data from rice indicates that different fates of gene duplications exist for lignin biosynthesis genes. In addition, we also carried out the biomass composition analysis of nine Arabidopsis mutants with both MBMS analysis and traditional wet chemistry methods. The results were analyzed together with the genomics analysis. The research revealed that, among the species analyzed, the complete lignin biosynthesis pathway first appeared in moss; the pathway is absent in green algae. The expansion of lignin biosynthesis gene families correlates with substrate diversity. In addition, we found that the expansion of the gene families mostly occurred after the divergence of monocots and dicots, with the exception of the C4H gene family. Gene expression analysis revealed different fates of gene duplications, largely confirming plants are tolerant to gene dosage effects. The rapid expansion of lignin biosynthesis genes indicated that the translation of transgenic lignin modification strategies from model species to bioenergy feedstock might only be successful between the closely relevant species within the same family.
Expression of rol agrobacterial oncogenes in plant cell cultures is known to result in activation of secondary metabolite biosynthesis. In the present work, we show that rolC can activate expression of key genes of secondary metabolism using the rolC-transgenic culture of Eritrichium sericeum producing caffeic acid metabolites (rosmarinic acid and rabdosiin) as an example. Increased content of rosmarinic acid in the rolC-transformed callus culture resulted from transcriptional activation of members of the CYP98 family of plant cytochrome P450-containing monooxygenase genes. The rolC gene expression led to increased transcript abundance of the CYP98A3 subfamily members, which are closely related homologs of CYP98A6 of Lithospermum erythrorhizon and are known to be key genes in rosmarinic acid biosynthesis. In contrast, expression of other CYP genes, such as CYP98A1 and CYP98A2, which are not implicated in rosmarinic acid biosynthesis, was not activated in the rolC-transformed calluses. These results are indicative of selective effect of rolC on transcription of particular genes implicated in secondary metabolism.
MicroRNAs (miRNA) are approximately 21 nucleotide-long non-coding small RNAs, which function as post-transcriptional regulators in eukaryotes. miRNAs play essential roles in regulating plant growth and development. In recent years, research into the mechanism and consequences of miRNA action has made great progress. With whole genome sequence available in such plants as Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Populus trichocarpa, Glycine max, etc., it is desirable to develop a plant miRNA database through the integration of large amounts of information about publicly deposited miRNA data. The plant miRNA database (PMRD) integrates available plant miRNA data deposited in public databases, gleaned from the recent literature, and data generated in-house. This database contains sequence information, secondary structure, target genes, expression profiles and a genome browser. In total, there are 8433 miRNAs collected from 121 plant species in PMRD, including model plants and major crops such as Arabidopsis, rice, wheat, soybean, maize, sorghum, barley, etc. For Arabidopsis, rice, poplar, soybean, cotton, medicago and maize, we included the possible target genes for each miRNA with a predicted interaction site in the database. Furthermore, we provided miRNA expression profiles in the PMRD, including our local rice oxidative stress related microarray data (LC Sciences miRPlants_10.1) and the recently published microarray data for poplar, Arabidopsis, tomato, maize and rice. The PMRD database was constructed by open source technology utilizing a user-friendly web interface, and multiple search tools. The PMRD is freely available at http://bioinformatics.cau.edu.cn/PMRD. We expect PMRD to be a useful tool for scientists in the miRNA field in order to study the function of miRNAs and their target genes, especially in model plants and major crops.
Prolamins are seed storage proteins in cereals and represent an important source of essential amino acids for feed and food. Genes encoding these proteins resulted from dispersed and tandem amplification. While previous studies have concentrated on protein sequences from different grass species, we now can add a new perspective to their relationships by asking how their genes are shared by ancestry and copied in different lineages of the same family of species. These differences are derived from alignment of chromosomal regions, where collinearity is used to identify prolamin genes in syntenic positions, also called orthologous gene copies. New or paralogous gene copies are inserted in tandem or new locations of the same genome. More importantly, one can detect the loss of older genes. We analyzed chromosomal intervals containing prolamin genes from rice, sorghum, wheat, barley, and Brachypodium, representing different subfamilies of the Poaceae. The Poaceae commonly known as the grasses includes three major subfamilies, the Ehrhartoideae (rice), Pooideae (wheat, barley, and Brachypodium), and Panicoideae (millets, maize, sorghum, and switchgrass). Based on chromosomal position and sequence divergence, it becomes possible to infer the order of gene amplification events. Furthermore, the loss of older genes in different subfamilies seems to permit a faster pace of divergence of paralogous genes. Change in protein structure affects their physical properties, subcellular location, and amino acid composition. On the other hand, regulatory sequence elements and corresponding transcriptional activators of new gene copies are more conserved than coding sequences, consistent with the tissue-specific expression of these genes.
The wheat high molecular weight (HMW) glutenins are important seed storage proteins that determine bread-making quality in hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum). In this study, detailed comparative sequence analyses of large orthologous HMW glutenin genomic regions from eight grass species, representing a wide evolutionary history of grass genomes, reveal a number of lineage-specific sequence changes. These lineage-specific changes, which resulted in duplications, insertions, and deletions of genes, are the major forces disrupting gene colinearity among grass genomes. Our results indicate that the presence of the HMW glutenin gene in Triticeae genomes was caused by lineage-specific duplication of a globulin gene. This tandem duplication event is shared by Brachypodium and Triticeae genomes, but is absent in rice, maize, and sorghum, suggesting the duplication occurred after Brachypodium and Triticeae genomes diverged from the other grasses ~35 Ma ago. Aside from their physical location in tandem, the sequence similarity, expression pattern, and conserved cis-acting elements responsible for endosperm-specific expression further support the paralogous relationship between the HMW glutenin and globulin genes. While the duplicated copy in Brachypodium has apparently become nonfunctional, the duplicated copy in wheat has evolved to become the HMW glutenin gene by gaining a central prolamin repetitive domain.
Pre-harvest sprouting susceptibility in grain sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) is related to low seed dormancy and reduced embryo sensitivity to inhibition of germination by abscisic acid (ABA). Intra-specific variability for pre-harvest sprouting might involve differential regulation of ABA signalling genes. Sorghum genes encoding homologues for ABA signalling components from other species (ABI5, ABI4, VP1, ABI1 and PKABA1) were studied at the transcriptional and protein level (ABI5) during grain imbibition for two sorghum lines with contrasting sprouting phenotypes and in response to hormones. Transcript levels of these genes and protein levels of ABI5 were higher in imbibed immature caryopses of the more dormant line. Dormancy loss was related to lower transcript levels of these genes and lower ABI5 protein levels in both genotypes. Exogenous ABA inhibited germination of isolated embryos but failed to prevent ABI5 rapid decrease supporting a role for the seed coat in regulating ABI5 levels. Several genes involved in ABA signalling are regulated differently in imbibed caryopses from two sorghum lines with contrasting pre-harvest sprouting response before - but not after - physiological maturity. A role for ABI5 in the expression of dormancy during grain development is discussed.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) was one of the most important crops in the world next to wheat, rice, maize, soybean and barley. Using the callus derived from immature inflorescence as the recipients, we efficiently transformed sorghum varieties 115, ICS21B and 5-27 with the insecticidal Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) cry1Ab gene carried in the T-DNA of binary vectors which contained hygromycin resistance gene and gus gene via Agrobacterium tumefaciens. After gradient selection with hygromycin, a total of 21 independent transgenic plant lines, 52 transgenic plants were regenerated, and the average stably transformation efficiency was 1.9%. The integration and transcription of cry1Ab gene in transgenic sorghum was confirmed by PCR analysis, Southern blotting and RT-PCR analysis. The Bt proteins were expressed in most transgenic plants with different level from plant to plant by Western blotting and ELISA assay. According to insect bioassay in laboratory, the transgenic plants with a relatively high level of Bt gene expression displayed insect-resistance to pink rice borer (Sesamina inferens).
The enzyme quinoprotein glucose dehydrogenase (GDH) catalyses the oxidation of glucose to gluconic acid by direct oxidation in the periplasmic space of several Gram-negative bacteria. Acidification of the external environment with the release of gluconic acid contributes to the solubilization of the inorganic phosphate by biofertilizer strains of the phosphate-solubilizing bacteria. Glucose dehydrogenase (gcd) gene from Escherichia coli, and Azotobacter-specific glutamine synthetase (glnA) and phosphate transport system (pts) promoters were isolated using sequence-specific primers in a PCR-based approach. Escherichia coli gcd, cloned under the control of glnA and pts promoters, was mobilized into Azotobacter vinelandii AvOP and expressed. Sorghum seeds were bacterized with the transgenic azotobacters and raised in earthen pots in green house. The transgenic azotobacters, expressing E. coli gcd, showed improved biofertilizer potential in terms of mineral phosphate solubilization and plant growth-promoting activity with a small reduction in nitrogen fixation ability.
The spatiotemporal regulation of gene expression largely depends on the presence and absence of cis-regulatory sites in the promoter. In the economically highly important grass family, our knowledge of transcription factor binding sites and transcriptional networks is still very limited. With the completion of the sorghum genome and the available rice genome sequence, comparative promoter analyses now allow genome-scale detection of conserved cis-elements. In this study, we identified thousands of phylogenetic footprints conserved between orthologous rice and sorghum upstream regions that are supported by co-expression information derived from three different rice expression data sets. In a complementary approach, cis-motifs were discovered by their highly conserved co-occurrence in syntenic promoter pairs. Sequence conservation and matches to known plant motifs support our findings. Expression similarities of gene pairs positively correlate with the number of motifs that are shared by gene pairs and corroborate the importance of similar promoter architectures for concerted regulation. This strongly suggests that these motifs function in the regulation of transcript levels in rice and, presumably also in sorghum. Our work provides the first large-scale collection of cis-elements for rice and sorghum and can serve as a paradigm for cis-element analysis through comparative genomics in grasses in general.
The DROOPING LEAF (DL) gene regulates carpel specification in the flower and midrib formation in the leaf in Oryza sativa (rice). Loss-of-function mutations in the dl locus cause homeotic transformation of carpels into stamens and lack of midrib, resulting in the drooping leaf phenotype. DL is a member of the YABBY gene family and is closely related to the CRABS CLAW (CRC) gene in Arabidopsis thaliana. The function of Arabidopsis CRC, however, differs from that of rice DL: it is responsible for nectary development and is partially involved in carpel identity. Thus, genes related to DL/CRC seem to have functionally diversified during angiosperm evolution. To assess the conservation of DL function in related species, here we examined the in situ expression patterns of DL orthologs in three grass species, i.e., maize, wheat and sorghum, which is assigned to subfamilies different from Ehrhartoideae including O. sativa. The results clearly show that the temporal and spatial expression patterns of DL orthologs in the three species are identical to those of rice DL in both flower and leaf development, suggesting that DL-related genes are functionally conserved within the grass family. It is likely that DL may have been recruited to carpel specification and midrib formation within the lineage of the grass family after divergence of their ancestor from that of eudicots.
In each completely sequenced genome, 30% to 50% of genes are annotated as uncharacterized hypothetical genes. In the rice (Oryza sativa) genome, 10,918 hypothetical genes were annotated in the latest version (release 6) of the Michigan State University rice genome annotation. We have implemented an integrative approach to analyze their duplication/expansion and function. The analyses show that tandem/segmental duplication and transposition/retrotransposition have significantly contributed to the expansion of hypothetical genes despite their different contribution rates. A total of 3,769 hypothetical genes have been detected from retrogene, tandem, segmental, Pack-MULE, or long terminated direct repeat-related duplication/expansion. The nonsynonymous substitutions per site and synonymous substitutions per site analyses showed that 21.65% of them were still functional, accounting for 7.47% of total hypothetical genes. Global expression analyses have identified 1,672 expressed hypothetical genes. Among them, 415 genes might function in a developmental stage-specific manner. Antisense strand expression and small RNA analyses have demonstrated that a high percentage of these hypothetical genes might play important roles in negatively regulating gene expression. Homologous searches against Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and indica rice genomes suggest that most of the hypothetical genes could be annotated from recently evolved genomic sequences. These data advance the understanding of rice hypothetical genes as being involved in lineage-specific expansion and that they function in a specific developmental stage. Our analyses also provide a valuable means to facilitate the characterization and functional annotation of hypothetical genes in other organisms.
An important objective in genome research is to relate genome structure to gene function. Sequence comparisons among orthologous and paralogous genes and their allelic variants can reveal sequences of functional significance. Here, we describe a 379-kb region on chromosome 1 of maize that enables us to reconstruct chromosome breakage, transposition, non-homologous end-joining, and homologous recombination events. Such a high-density composition of various mechanisms in a small chromosomal interval exemplifies the evolution of gene regulation and allelic diversity in general. It also illustrates the evolutionary pace of changes in plants, where many of the above mechanisms are of somatic origin. In contrast to animals, somatic alterations can easily be transmitted through meiosis because the germline in plants is contiguous to somatic tissue, permitting the recovery of such chromosomal rearrangements. The analyzed region contains the P1-wr allele, a variant of the genetically well-defined p1 gene, which encodes a Myb-like transcriptional activator in maize. The P1-wr allele consists of eleven nearly perfect P1-wr 12-kb repeats that are arranged in a tandem head-to-tail array. Although a technical challenge to sequence such a structure by shotgun sequencing, we overcame this problem by subcloning each repeat and ordering them based on nucleotide variations. These polymorphisms were also critical for recombination and expression analysis in presence and absence of the trans-acting epigenetic factor Ufo1. Interestingly, chimeras of the p1 and p2 genes, p2/p1 and p1/p2, are framing the P1-wr cluster. Reconstruction of sequence amplification steps at the p locus showed the evolution from a single Myb-homolog to the multi-gene P1-wr cluster. It also demonstrates how non-homologous end-joining can create novel gene fusions. Comparisons to orthologous regions in sorghum and rice also indicate a greater instability of the maize genome, probably due to diploidization following allotetraploidization.
Disease response genes (DRGs) diverge under recurrent positive selection as a result of a molecular arms race between hosts and pathogens. Most of these studies were conducted in animals, and few defense genes have been shown to evolve adaptively in plants. To test for adaptation in the molecules mediating disease resistance in the cereals, we first combined information from the expression pattern of Sorghum bicolor genes and from divergence to the full genome of rice to identify candidate DRGs. We then used evolutionary analyses of orthologous gene sets from several grass species, to determine whether the DRGs show signals of positive selection and the residues targeted. We found 140 divergent genes upregulated under biotic stress in S. bicolor by evaluating the relative abundance of expressed sequence tags in different libraries and comparing them with rice genes. For 10 of these genes, we found sets of orthologs including sequences from rice and three other cereals; six genes showed a pattern of substitution that was consistent with positive selection. Three of these genes, a thaumatin, a peroxidase, and a barley mlo homolog, are known antifungal proteins. The other three genes with evidence of positive selection were a MCM-1 agamous deficiens SRF- (MADS) box transcription factor, an eIF5 translation initiation factor, and a gene of unknown function but with evidence of expression during stress. Permutation analyses, using different ortholog and paralog sequences, consistently identified five positively selected codons in the peroxidase, a member of a cluster of genes and a large gene family. We mapped the positively selected residues onto the structure of the peroxidase and thaumatin and found that all sites are on the surface of these proteins and several are close to biochemically determined active sites. Identifying new positively selected plant disease resistance genes and the critical amino acid sites provides a basis for functional studies that may increase our understanding of their underlying molecular mechanisms of action. Additionally, it may lead to the identification of individuals having variation at functionally important sites, as well as eventually using this information in the rational design and engineering of proteins involved in plant disease resistance.
Protein sequences were compared among Arabidopsis, Oryza and Populus to identify differential gene (DG) sets that are in one but not the other two genomes. The DG sets were screened against a plant transcript database, the NR protein database and six newly-sequenced genomes (Carica, Glycine, Medicago, Sorghum, Vitis and Zea) to identify a set of species-specific genes (SS). Gene expression, protein motif and intron number were examined. 165, 638 and 109 SS genes were identified in Arabidopsis, Oryza and Populus, respectively. Some SS genes were preferentially expressed in flowers, roots, xylem and cambium or up-regulated by stress. Six conserved motifs in Arabidopsis and OryzaSS proteins were found in other distant lineages. The SS gene sets were enriched with intronless genes. The results reflect functional and/or anatomical differences between monocots and eudicots or between herbaceous and woody plants. The Populus-specific genes are candidates for carbon sequestration and biofuel research.
Whole-genome duplication produces massive duplicated blocks in plant genomes. Sharing appreciable sequence similarity, duplicated blocks may have been affected by illegitimate recombination. However, large-scale evaluation of illegitimate recombination in plant genomes has not been possible previously. Here, based on comparative and phylogenetic analysis of the sequenced genomes of rice and sorghum, we report evidence of extensive and long-lasting recombination between duplicated blocks. We estimated that at least 5.5% and 4.1% of rice and sorghum duplicated genes have been affected by nonreciprocal recombination (gene conversion) over nearly their full length after rice-sorghum divergence, while even more (8.7% and 8.1%, respectively) have been converted over portions of their length. We found that conversion occurs in higher frequency toward the terminal regions of chromosomes, and expression patterns of converted genes are more positively correlated than nonconverted ones. Though converted paralogs are more similar to one another than nonconverted ones, elevated nucleotide differences between rice-sorghum orthologs indicates that they have evolved at a faster rate, implying that recombination acts as an accelerating, rather than a conservative, element. The converted genes show no change in selection pressure. We also found no evidence that conversion contributed to guanine-cytosine (GC) content elevation.
Brown midrib6 (bmr6) affects phenylpropanoid metabolism, resulting in reduced lignin concentrations and altered lignin composition in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). Recently, bmr6 plants were shown to have limited cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase activity (CAD; EC 1.1.1.195), the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of hydroxycinnamoyl aldehydes (monolignals) to monolignols. A candidate gene approach was taken to identify Bmr6. Two CAD genes (Sb02g024190 and Sb04g005950) were identified in the sorghum genome based on similarity to known CAD genes and through DNA sequencing a nonsense mutation was discovered in Sb04g005950 that results in a truncated protein lacking the NADPH-binding and C-terminal catalytic domains. Immunoblotting confirmed that the Bmr6 protein was absent in protein extracts from bmr6 plants. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that Bmr6 is a member of an evolutionarily conserved group of CAD proteins, which function in lignin biosynthesis. In addition, Bmr6 is distinct from the other CAD-like proteins in sorghum, including SbCAD4 (Sb02g024190). Although both Bmr6 and SbCAD4 are expressed in sorghum internodes, an examination of enzymatic activity of recombinant Bmr6 and SbCAD4 showed that Bmr6 had 1 to 2 orders of magnitude greater activity for monolignol substrates. Modeling of Bmr6 and SbCAD4 protein structures showed differences in the amino acid composition of the active site that could explain the difference in enzyme activity. These differences include His-57, which is unique to Bmr6 and other grass CADs. In summary, Bmr6 encodes the major CAD protein involved in lignin synthesis in sorghum, and the bmr6 mutant is a null allele.
Enhancement of the carotenoid biosynthetic pathway in food crops benefits human health and adds commercial value of natural food colorants. However, predictable metabolic engineering or breeding is limited by the incomplete understanding of endogenous pathway regulation, including rate-controlling steps and timing of expression in carotenogenic tissues. The grass family (Poaceae) contains major crop staples, including maize (Zea mays), wheat (Triticum aestivum), rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and millet (Pennisetum glaucum). Maize carotenogenesis was investigated using a novel approach to discover genes encoding limiting biosynthetic steps in the nutritionally targeted seed endosperm. A combination of bioinformatics and cloning were first used to identify and map gene families encoding enzymes in maize and other grasses. These enzymes represented upstream pathways for isopentenyl diphosphate and geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthesis and the downstream carotenoid biosynthetic pathway, including conversion to abscisic acid. A maize germplasm collection was used for statistical testing of the correlation between carotenoid content and candidate gene transcript levels. Multiple pathway bottlenecks for isoprenoid biosynthesis and carotenoid biosynthesis were discovered in specific temporal windows of endosperm development. Transcript levels of paralogs encoding isoprenoid isopentenyl diphosphate and geranylgeranyl diphosphate-producing enzymes, DXS3, DXR, HDR, and GGPPS1, were found to positively correlate with endosperm carotenoid content. For carotenoid pathway enzymes, transcript levels for CrtISO inversely correlated with seed carotenoid content, as compared with positive correlation of PSY1 transcripts. Since zeaxanthin epoxidase (ZEP) depletes the carotenoid pool in subsequent conversion to abscisic acid, ZEP transcripts were examined. Carotenoid accumulation was found to be inversely associated with ZEP1 and ZEP2 transcript levels. Extension of the maize results using phylogenetic analysis identified orthologs in other grass species that may serve as potential metabolic engineering targets.
Horizontal transfers (HTs) refer to the transmission of genetic material between phylogenetically distant species. Although most of the cases of HTs described so far concern genes, there is increasing evidence that some involve transposable elements (TEs) in Eukaryotes. The availability of the full genome sequence of two cereal species, (i.e. rice and Sorghum), as well as the partial genome sequence of maize, provides the opportunity to carry out genome-wide searches for TE-HTs in Poaceae. We have identified an LTR-retrotransposon, that we named Route66, with more than 95% sequence identity between rice and Sorghum. Using a combination of in silico and molecular approaches, we are able to present a substantial phylogenetic evidence that Route66 has been transferred horizontally between Panicoideae and several species of the genus Oryza. In addition, we show that it has remained active after these transfers. This study constitutes a new case of HTs for an LTR-retrotransposon and we strongly believe that this mechanism could play a major role in the life cycle of transposable elements. We therefore propose to integrate classe I elements into the previous model of transposable element evolution through horizontal transfers.
A number of parameters related to Agrobacterium-mediated infection were tested to optimize transformation frequencies of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.). A plasmid with a selectable marker, phosphomannose isomerase, and an sgfp reporter gene was used. First, storing immature spikes at 4 degrees C before use decreased frequency of GFP-expressing calli, for example, in sorghum variety P898012 from 22.5% at 0 day to 6.4% at 5 days. Next, heating immature embryos (IEs) at various temperatures for 3 min prior to Agrobacterium infection increased frequencies of GFP-expressing calli, of mannose-selected calli and of transformed calli. The optimal 43 degrees C heat treatment increased transformation frequencies from 2.6% with no heat to 7.6%. Using different heating times at 43 degrees C prior to infection showed 3 min was optimal. Centrifuging IEs with no heat or heating at various temperatures decreased frequencies of all tissue responses; however, both heat and centrifugation increased de-differentiation of tissue. If IEs were cooled at 25 degrees C versus on ice after heating and prior to infection, numbers with GFP-expressing cells increased from 34.2 to 49.1%. The most optimal treatment, 43 degrees C for 3 min, cooling at 25 degrees C and no centrifugation, yielded 49.1% GFP-expressing calli and 8.3% stable transformation frequency. Transformation frequencies greater than 7% were routinely observed using similar treatments over 5 months of testing. This reproducible frequency, calculated as numbers of independent IEs producing regenerable transgenic tissues, confirmed by PCR, western and DNA hybridization analysis, divided by total numbers of IEs infected, is several-fold higher than published frequencies.
The content and composition of the plant cell wall polymer lignin affect plant fitness, carbon sequestration potential, and agro-industrial processing. These characteristics, are heavily influenced by the supply of hydroxycinnamyl alcohol precursors synthesized by the enzyme cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD). In angiosperms, CAD is encoded by a multigene family consisting of members thought to have distinct roles in different stages of plant development. Due to the high sequence similarity among CAD genes, it has been challenging to identify and study the role of the individual genes without a genome sequence. Analysis of the recently released sorghum genome revealed the existence of 14 CAD-like genes at seven genomic locations. Comparisons with maize and rice revealed subtle differences in gene number, arrangement, and expression patterns. Sorghum CAD2 is the predominant CAD involved in lignification based on the phylogenetic relationship with CADs from other species and genetic evidence showing that a set of three allelic brown midrib (bmr) lignin mutants contained mutations in this gene. The impact of the mutations on the structure of the protein was assessed using molecular modeling based on X-ray crystallography data of the closely related Arabidopsis CAD5. The modeling revealed unique changes in structure consistent with the observed phenotypes of the mutants.
What is the fate of organ-specific genes after the organ is lost? For Sorghum propinquum and Sorghum halepense genes that were previously shown to have rhizome-enriched expression, we have conducted comparative analysis of both coding regions and regulatory sequences in Sorghum bicolor (non-rhizomatousness) and S. propinquum (rhizomatousness). Most genes with rhizome-enriched expression appear to have similar numbers of paralogous copies in both genotypes, with only three of 24 genes studied showing significant differences in copy numbers. We detected no greater propensity for mutation in S. bicolor than in S. propinquum of genes with rhizome-enriched expression in the latter. Several cis-acting regulatory elements, particularly an Myb-binding core (AACGG) that is involved in the regulation of the mitotic cyclin, were more abundant in promoters of S. propinquum than in non-rhizomatous S. bicolor or Oryza sativa (rice). We suggest that many genes with rhizome-enriched expression in S. propinquum may serve multiple functions, with partial loss of some of these functions in S. bicolor but ongoing purifying selection acting to preserve the remaining functions. Expressed genes in polyploid S. halepense rhizomes appeared to be more frequently derived from the S. propinquum than the S. bicolor progenitor, but there was some evidence of formation of novel alleles and 'recruitment' of S. bicolor genes to rhizome-enriched expression in S. halepense, suggesting that polyploidy may have offered new evolutionary potential to S. halepense.
Microbacterium testaceum is a predominant endophytic bacterial species isolated from corn and sorghum in the midwestern United States. The development of genetic transfer systems for M. testaceum may enable its use for biocontrol and other applications. The type strain (IFO 12675) and field isolates (SE017, SE034, and CE648) were grown to mid-exponential phase, concentrated (1.0 x 1011 CFU x mL(-1)), electroporated (Escherichia coli-Clavibacter shuttle plasmid pDM302), and plated on TSA with 10 microg x mL(-1) chloramphenicol. Transformation efficiencies averaged 140 CFU x microg(-1) of DNA. Restriction endonuclease analysis showed that pDM302 was not altered after extraction from transformants and re-introduction into E. coli. Transformants with pDM302 were also subjected to nonselective growth conditions, with the frequency of loss after one passage being 84% for IFO 12675 and 88% for SE034. We inserted the green fluorescent protein and the firefly luciferase (FFlux) reporter genes into pDM302, confirming the expression of FFlux in IFO 12675 and SE034. The SE034 FFlux strain was recovered from inoculated corn in greenhouse studies and found to fluoresce by luminometry. These results in M. testaceum demonstrate for the first time its transformability, pDM302 replication, FFlux gene expression, and the recovery of the FFlux recombinant strain from inoculated corn.
Transcription factors (TFs) are major players in gene regulatory networks and interactions between TFs and their target genes furnish spatiotemporal patterns of gene expression. Establishing the architecture of regulatory networks requires gathering information on TFs, their targets in the genome, and the corresponding binding sites. We have developed GRASSIUS (Grass Regulatory Information Services) as a knowledge-based Web resource that integrates information on TFs and gene promoters across the grasses. In its initial implementation, GRASSIUS consists of two separate, yet linked, databases. GrassTFDB holds information on TFs from maize (Zea mays), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), sugarcane (Saccharum spp.), and rice (Oryza sativa). TFs are classified into families and phylogenetic relationships begin to uncover orthologous relationships among the participating species. This database also provides a centralized clearinghouse for TF synonyms in the grasses. GrassTFDB is linked to the grass TFome collection, which provides clones in recombination-based vectors corresponding to full-length open reading frames for a growing number of grass TFs. GrassPROMDB contains promoter and cis-regulatory element information for those grass species and genes for which enough data are available. The integration of GrassTFDB and GrassPROMDB will be accomplished through GrassRegNet as a first step in representing the architecture of grass regulatory networks. GRASSIUS can be accessed from www.grassius.org.
Grass inflorescences produce the grain that feeds the world. Compared to eudicots such as Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), grasses have a complex inflorescence morphology that can be explained by differences in the activity of axillary meristems. Advances in genomics, such as the completion of the rice (Oryza sativa) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) genomes and the recent release of a draft sequence of the maize (Zea mays) genome, have greatly facilitated research in grasses. Here, we review recent progress in the understanding of the genetic regulation of grass inflorescence development, with a focus on maize and rice. An exciting theme is the key role of plant growth hormones in inflorescence development.
Sorghum is distinct from other cereal crops due to its ability to produce profuse amount of epicuticular wax (EW or bloom) on its culm and leaves along with less permeable cuticle which are considered to be important traits contributing to abiotic stress tolerance. Here, we report the molecular mapping and characterization of BL OO M-C UTICLE (BLMC), a locus associated with production of profuse wax, using a mutant mapping population developed from a cross between BTx623 (wild type with profuse wax) and KFS2021 (a mutant with greatly reduced wax). The F2 progenies were genotyped using known and newly developed microsatellite markers to establish a molecular map of BLMC. The locus mapped to a 3.6-centimorgans (cM) interval in the terminal end of sorghum chromosome 10 with flanking markers Xsbarslbk10.47 and Xcup42. Targeted mapping delimited BLMC to as small as 0.7 cM region and facilitated identification of three cosegregating markers with the trait. The BLMC region corresponds to approximately 153,000 bp and candidate genes identified include among others an acyl CoA oxidase (a gene involved in lipid and wax biosynthesis) and seven other putative transcripts. Phenotypic characterization showed that in addition to disrupting the EW production, BLMC mutation reduced culm and leaf cuticle, increased plant death rating in the field at anthesis and significantly reduced the C:28 to C:30 free fatty acid fractions of culm and leaf EW. These results clearly support the important role of BLMC in the expression of profuse wax and enhanced cuticular features of sorghum. Genetic mapping of BLMC opened avenues for identification of genes involved in the cuticle/wax pathway of sorghum and their application for improvement of abiotic stress tolerance.
In plant tissue culture, developmental disturbance and mutagenic factors are involved in channeling an individual totipotent cell to an intact plant. Comparing a pair of sorghum reciprocal F(1) hybrids with their parental pure lines revealed a dramatic difference in the occurrence of both genetic and DNA methylation alterations in the respective regenerated plants. In contrast to those of the pure lines, regenerated plants of hybrids exhibit significantly enhanced genetic and epigenetic stability. The genetic changes detected by amplified fragment length polymorphism and the DNA methylation alterations detected by methylation-sensitive amplified polymorphism are intimately correlated with each other, suggesting a common mechanism underlying both kinds of instabilities. Markedly altered transcription of genes encoding four putative sorghum DNA methyltransferases and two 5-methylcytosine glycosylases with nucleotide sequences orthologous to Arabidopsis counterparts was induced by tissue culture. The steady-state transcript levels of these genes were negatively correlated with genetic and methylation alterations. A salient observation is that tissue culture-induced transcription of genes encoding DNA methyltransferases and 5-methylcytosine glycosylases in calli and/or regenerated plants of the hybrids was remarkably coordinated, but is largely uncoordinated and stochastically altered in calli and/or regenerated plants of the pure lines. We suggest that the uncoordinated regulation of expression of DNA methyltransferases and 5-methylcytosine glycosylases is a major cause of the high incidence of genetic and DNA methylation alterations in cultures of pure lines, but coordinated up-regulated expression of these enzymes in cultures of the F(1) hybrids fortified their genetic and epigenetic stability.
Aluminum-activated root malate and citrate exudation play an important role in plant Al tolerance. This paper characterizes AtMATE, a homolog of the recently discovered sorghum and barley Al-tolerance genes, shown here to encode an Al-activated citrate transporter in Arabidopsis. Together with the previously characterized Al-activated malate transporter, AtALMT1, this discovery allowed us to examine the relationship in the same species between members of the two gene families for which Al-tolerance genes have been identified. AtMATE is expressed primarily in roots and is induced by Al. An AtMATE T-DNA knockdown line exhibited very low AtMATE expression and Al-activated root citrate exudation was abolished. The AtALMT1 AtMATE double mutant lacked both Al-activated root malate and citrate exudation and showed greater Al sensitivity than the AtALMT1 mutant. Therefore, although AtALMT1 is a major contributor to Arabidopsis Al tolerance, AtMATE also makes a significant but smaller contribution. The expression patterns of AtALMT1 and AtMATE and the profiles of Al-activated root citrate and malate exudation are not affected by the presence or absence of the other gene. These results suggest that AtALMT1-mediated malate exudation and AtMATE-mediated citrate exudation evolved independently to confer Al tolerance in Arabidopsis. However, a link between regulation of expression of the two transporters in response to Al was identified through work on STOP1, a transcription factor that was previously shown to be necessary for AtALMT1 expression. Here we show that STOP1 is also required for AtMATE expression and Al-activated citrate exudation.
Agrobacterium mediated genetic transformation of plants have advantages over other methods, especially for making single copy transgenic plants with reduced chances of gene silencing and instability. However, monocotyledonous plant species could not utilize the full potential of this system because of possible limitations in Agrobacterium interaction with monocot plant cells. Agrobacterium attachment as a factor in genetic transformation was studied in the leaf, shoot apex, and leaf derived callus of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L) Moench). Pre-induction of Agrobacterium with acetosyringone was found necessary for Agrobacterium attachment to sorghum tissues. All the explants responded positively, with preferential Agrobacterium attachment and colonization around the tissues having actively dividing cells. Callus proved to be the best explant for Agrobacterium attachment as observed in scanning electron microscopy and transient GUS expression. Loss of Agrobacterium attachment was observed with an increase in the degree of tissue differentiation.
Zea mays, commonly known as corn, is perhaps the most greatly produced crop in terms of tonnage and a major food, feed, and biofuel resource. Here we analyzed its prolamin gene family, encoding the major seed storage proteins, as a model for gene evolution by syntenic alignments with sorghum and rice, two genomes that have been sequenced recently. Because a high-density gene map has been constructed for maize inbred B73, all prolamin gene copies can be identified in their chromosomal context. Alignment of respective chromosomal regions of these species via conserved genes allow us to identify the pedigree of prolamin gene copies in space and time. Its youngest and largest gene family, the alpha prolamins, arose about 22-26 million years ago (Mya) after the split of the Panicoideae (including maize, sorghum, and millet) from the Pooideae (including wheat, barley, and oats) and Oryzoideae (rice). The first dispersal of alpha prolamin gene copies occurred before the split of the progenitors of maize and sorghum about 11.9 Mya. One of the two progenitors of maize gained a new alpha zein locus, absent in the other lineage, to form a nonduplicated locus in maize after allotetraplodization about 4.8 Mya. But dispersed copies gave rise to tandem duplications through uneven expansion and gene silencing of this gene family in maize and sorghum, possibly because of maize's greater recombination and mutation rates resulting from its diploidization process. Interestingly, new gene loci in maize represent junctions of ancestral chromosome fragments and sites of new centromeres in sorghum and rice.
Spatial and temporal expression patterns of the sorghum SBEI, SBEIIA and SBEIIB genes, encoding, respectively, starch branching enzyme (SBE) I, IIA and IIB, in the developing endosperm of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) were studied. Full-length genomic and cDNA clones for sorghum were cloned, and the SBEIIA cDNA was used together with gene-specific probes for sorghum SBEIIB and SBEI. In contrast to sorghum SBEIIB, which was expressed primarily in endosperm and embryo, SBEIIA was also expressed in vegetative tissues. All three genes shared a similar temporal expression profile during endosperm development, with a maximum activity at 15-24 d after pollination. This differed from barley and maize, in which SBEI gene activity showed a significantly later onset compared to that of SBEIIA and SBEIIB. Expression of the three SBE genes in the sorghum endosperm exhibited a diurnal rhythm during a 24-h cycle.
Comparative analysis reveals remarkahle homology between the sequences of bothpsbA gene nucleotides and the inferred amino acids of sorghum, a C(4) plant, and those of rice, a C(3) plant. The 5'-noncoding region of sorghumpsbA gene contains the conservative promoter elements, "-35" element and "-10" element, like the prokaryote and the promoter element, TATA box, like the eukaryote. As compared with that of the rice, an extra sequence of 7 bp is found in the leader sequence of the mRNA in the former. Using anin vitro system, it has been demonstrated that protein factor exists in sorghum chloroplast protein extract which specifically hinds to the 5'-noncoding region ofpsbA gene. Measurement of the expression of luciferase shows a 2-5 time greater reaction of the expression plasmids pALqs which contain leader region of sorghumpsbA gene than that of the expression plasmids pALqr which contain leader region of ricepsbA gene inE. coli.
The transition from vegetative to reproductive phase, flowering per se, floral organ development, panicle structure and morphology, meiosis, pollination and fertilization, cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) and fertility restoration, and grain development are the main reproductive traits. Unlocking their genetic insights will enable plant breeders to manipulate these traits in cereal germplasm enhancement. Multiple genes or quantitative trait loci (QTLs) affecting flowering (phase transition, photoperiod and vernalization, flowering per se), panicle morphology and grain development have been cloned, and gene expression research has provided new information about the nature of complex genetic networks involved in the expression of these traits. Molecular biology is also facilitating the identification of diverse CMS sources in hybrid breeding. Few Rf (fertility restorer) genes have been cloned in maize, rice and sorghum. DNA markers are now used to assess the genetic purity of hybrids and their parental lines, and to pyramid Rf or tms (thermosensitive male sterility) genes in rice. Transgene(s) can be used to create de novo CMS trait in cereals. The understanding of reproductive biology facilitated by functional genomics will allow a better manipulation of genes by crop breeders and their potential use across species through genetic transformation.
Because of the economical relevance of sugarcane and its high potential as a source of biofuel, it is important to understand how this crop will respond to the foreseen increase in atmospheric [CO(2)]. The effects of increased [CO(2)] on photosynthesis, development and carbohydrate metabolism were studied in sugarcane (Saccharum ssp.). Plants were grown at ambient (approximately 370 ppm) and elevated (approximately 720 ppm) [CO(2)] during 50 weeks in open-top chambers. The plants grown under elevated CO(2) showed, at the end of such period, an increase of about 30% in photosynthesis and 17% in height, and accumulated 40% more biomass in comparison with the plants grown at ambient [CO(2)]. These plants also had lower stomatal conductance and transpiration rates (-37 and -32%, respectively), and higher water-use efficiency (c.a. 62%). cDNA microarray analyses revealed a differential expression of 35 genes on the leaves (14 repressed and 22 induced) by elevated CO(2). The latter are mainly related to photosynthesis and development. Industrial productivity analysis showed an increase of about 29% in sucrose content. These data suggest that sugarcane crops increase productivity in higher [CO(2)], and that this might be related, as previously observed for maize and sorghum, to transient drought stress.
A full-length cDNA clone, SbSnRK1b (1530 bp, GenBank accession no. EF544393), encoding a putative serine/threonine protein kinase homologue of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) SNF1, was isolated from developing endosperm of sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench]. Multiple sequence alignment data showed a phylogenetic affiliation of the sorghum clone with the SnRK1b group of protein kinases that are highly expressed in cereal seed endosperm. The DNA gel blot analyses indicated that SbSnRK1b gene is present as a single- or low copy number gene in sorghum. The RNA and protein gel blot analyses confirmed the expression of SbSnRK1b in developing sorghum caryopses, overlapping with the starch biosynthesis phase, 12-24 days after fertilization. In situ hybridization and immunolocalization data resolved the spatial specificity of SbSnRK1b expression in the basal endosperm transfer cell layer, the unique port of assimilate unloading in the growing sorghum seed. Expression of SbSnRK1b was also evident in the developing sorghum microspores, coincident with the onset of starch deposition phase. As in sorghum, similar spatiotemporal specificity of SnRK1b expression was observed during maize (Zea mays L.) seed development. However, discordant in situ hybridization and immunolocalization data indicated that the expression of SbSnRK1b homologue in maize is under posttranscriptional control during endosperm development.
Four enzymes, namely, the maize C(4)-specific phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC), the maize C(4)-specific pyruvate, orthophosphate dikinase (PPDK), the sorghum NADP-malate dehydrogenase (MDH), and the rice C(3)-specific NADP-malic enzyme (ME), were overproduced in the mesophyll cells of rice plants independently or in combination. Overproduction individually of PPDK, MDH or ME did not affect the rate of photosynthetic CO(2) assimilation, while in the case of PEPC it was slightly reduced. The reduction in CO(2) assimilation in PEPC overproduction lines remained unaffected by overproduction of PPDK, ME or a combination of both, however it was significantly restored by the combined overproduction of PPDK, ME, and MDH to reach levels comparable to or slightly higher than that of non-transgenic rice. The extent of the restoration of CO(2) assimilation, however, was more marked at higher CO(2) concentrations, an indication that overproduction of the four enzymes in combination did not act to concentrate CO(2) inside the chloroplast. Transgenic rice plants overproducing the four enzymes showed slight stunting. Comparison of transformants overproducing different combinations of enzymes indicated that overproduction of PEPC together with ME was responsible for stunting, and that overproduction of MDH had some mitigating effects. Possible mechanisms underlying these phenotypic effects, as well as possibilities and limitations of introducing the C(4)-like photosynthetic pathway into C(3) plants, are discussed.
Mitochondria are genetic compartments with their own enzymatic equipment for maintenance and expression of their genetic information. As in all genetic systems, gene expression has to be regulated, and in mitochondria this also has to be coordinated with the expression of nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins. Presently, there is virtually no information available about the mechanistic details and the enzymes involved in these processes. There is still much to be learned about how plant mitochondrial gene expression is managed and to what extent the contribution of transcription initiation and posttranscriptional processes, respectively, contribute to this control. As one prerequisite for better understanding of the mechanisms and regulatory controls, more fundamental data on mitochondrial transcription initiation and posttranscriptional RNA processing are necessary. As part of the essential methodology, we present methods for the analysis of the 5' and 3' extremities of mitochondrial transcripts and the identification of transcription initiation sites. An in organello system is described for the functional investigation of ribonucleic acid editing in plant mitochondria.
Plants damaged by insects can synthesize and release volatile chemicals that attract natural enemies of the herbivore. The maize (Zea mays subsp. mays) terpene synthase gene stc1 is part of that indirect defense response, being induced in seedling blades in response to herbivory by beet army worm. Many genes in maize are duplicated because of a past whole-genome duplication event, and several of these orthologs display different expression patterns. We report here the isolation and characterization of tps26 and confirm by homology and synteny criteria that it is the ortholog of stc1. Prior genetic analysis revealed that the stc1 function is not duplicated, raising the interesting question of how the two orthologs have become differentiated in their expression. tps26 encodes a 633-amino acid protein that is highly conserved with STC1. Like stc1, tps26 is induced by wounding, but in the roots and leaf sheath, instead of the blade, and not in response to beet army worm feeding. tps26 maps near a quantitative trait locus for Southwestern corn borer resistance, making it a plausible candidate gene for that quantitative trait locus. However, while possessing highly polymorphic tps26 alleles, the resistant and susceptible parents of the mapping population do not differ in levels of tps26 expression. Moreover, tps26 is not induced specifically by Southwestern corn borer feeding. Therefore, although they share a wounding response, the stc1 and tps26 maize orthologs differ in their tissue specificity and their induction by insect herbivores. The N termini of STC1 and TPS26 are predicted to encode plastid transit peptides; fusion proteins of green fluorescent protein to either N terminus localized to the plastid, confirming that prediction. The mature proteins, but not the respective complete proteins, were active and synthesized a blend of monoterpenes, indicating that they are monoterpene synthases. A gene closely related to stc1/tps26 is found in the sorghum (Sorghum spp.) genome at a location that is not orthologous with stc1. The possible origin of stc1-like genes is discussed.
Transgenic Arabidopsis plants were analyzed by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) to investigate the glycosylation patterns of resveratrol derived from expression of a sorghum stilbene synthase gene. In negative ionization mode, the different resveratrol derivatives fragmented to yield the diagnostic deprotonated resveratrol ion at m/z 227.2. The use of precursor ion scanning led to the identification of precursor ions for different resveratrol glycosides through rapid differentiation from other phytochemical constituents. Structural information was generated simultaneously from the low-collision-energy product ion spectra using hybrid linear ion-trap mass spectrometry. Three additional resveratrol-related metabolites - a resveratrol diglucoside (M1) and trans- and cis-resveratrol acetylhexosides (M2 and M3) - were detected in the crude plant extracts. The identities of M1, M2, and M3 were confirmed by accurate mass analysis on a quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometer as well as beta-glucosidase digestion or UV-induced isomerization. Quantitative analyses by LC/MS in multiple reaction monitoring mode revealed that resveratrol diglucoside and cis-resveratrol acetyhexoside accumulated up to 2.79 and 10.38 microg/g, respectively, while trans-resveratrol acetylhexoside was barely detectable. This study demonstrated the power of the hybrid linear ion-trap technology for simultaneous profiling and structural characterization of stilbene-related metabolites, which would be useful to understand how resveratrol is modified in sorghum and other plants.
The INDETERMINATE1 (ID1) transcription factor is a key regulator of the transition to flowering in maize. ID1 is expressed in immature leaves where it controls the production or transmission of leaf-derived florigenic signals. Loss-of-function id1 mutants make many more leaves than normal plants and produce aberrant flowers; however, they exhibit no obvious developmental defects in early growth stages. A maize oligonucleotide microarray was used to assess the molecular differences between immature leaves of wild-type and id1 mutant plants prior to the floral transition. This analysis revealed 55 genes with a significant 2-fold difference in expression; 22 are down-regulated and 33 are up-regulated in id1 mutants. Most prominent is a novel family of three beta-glucosidase genes that are most closely related to sorghum dhurrinases. These genes, termed Zmdhr1, Zmdhr2, and Zmdhr3, are undetectable in immature leaves of id1 mutants and are expressed exclusively in normal immature leaves in a pattern identical to the ID1 gene. Other down-regulated genes include a group of four zinc finger protein-encoding genes that are unrelated to ID1. A significant number of genes up-regulated in id1 mutant immature leaves have potential roles in photosynthesis and carbon fixation, substantiating a possible connection between floral induction and assimilate partitioning. Finally, expression of these genes was compared in florally induced versus uninduced teosinte, a photoperiod-sensitive progenitor of day-neutral maize. Only a few genes showed expression differences, suggesting that ID1 acts in a novel autonomous floral induction pathway that is distinct from the photoperiod induction pathway.
Crop yields are significantly reduced by aluminum toxicity on highly acidic soils, which comprise up to 50% of the world's arable land. Candidate aluminum tolerance proteins include organic acid efflux transporters, with the organic acids forming non-toxic complexes with rhizosphere aluminum. In this study, we used positional cloning to identify the gene encoding a member of the multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) family, an aluminum-activated citrate transporter, as responsible for the major sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) aluminum tolerance locus, Alt(SB). Polymorphisms in regulatory regions of Alt(SB) are likely to contribute to large allelic effects, acting to increase Alt(SB) expression in the root apex of tolerant genotypes. Furthermore, aluminum-inducible Alt(SB) expression is associated with induction of aluminum tolerance via enhanced root citrate exudation. These findings will allow us to identify superior Alt(SB) haplotypes that can be incorporated via molecular breeding and biotechnology into acid soil breeding programs, thus helping to increase crop yields in developing countries where acidic soils predominate.
Synthesis of the tyrosine derived cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin in Sorghum bicolor is catalyzed by two multifunctional, membrane bound cytochromes P450, CYP79A1 and CYP71E1, and a soluble UDPG-glucosyltransferase, UGT85B1 (Tattersall, D.B., Bak, S., Jones, P.R., Olsen, C.E., Nielsen, J.K., Hansen, M.L., Høj, P.B., Møller, B.L., 2001. Resistance to an herbivore through engineered cyanogenic glucoside synthesis. Science 293, 1826-1828). All three enzymes retained enzymatic activity when expressed as fluorescent fusion proteins in planta. Transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants that produced dhurrin were obtained by co-expression of CYP79A1/CYP71E1-CFP/UGT85B1-YFP and of CYP79A1/CYP71E1/UGT85B1-YFP but not by co-expression of CYP79A1-YFP/CYP71E-CFP/UGT85B1. The lack of dhurrin formation upon co-expression of the two cytochromes P450 as fusion proteins indicated that tight interaction was necessary for efficient substrate channelling. Transient expression in S. bicolor epidermal cells as monitored by confocal laser scanning microscopy showed that UGT85B1-YFP accumulated in the cytoplasm in the absence of CYP79A1 or CYP71E1. In the presence of CYP79A1 and CYP71E1, the localization of UGT85B1 shifted towards the surface of the ER membrane in the periphery of biosynthetic active cells, demonstrating in planta dhurrin metabolon formation.
High temperature stress-induced male sterility is a critical problem in grain sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) that significantly compromises crop yields. Grain sorghum plants were grown season-long under ambient (30/20 degrees C, day-time maximum/night-time minimum) and high temperature (36/26 degrees C) conditions in sunlit Soil-Plant-Atmospheric-Research (SPAR) growth chambers. We report data on the effects of high temperature on sugar levels and expression profiles of genes related to sugar-to-starch metabolism in microspore populations represented by pre- and post-meiotic "early" stages through post-mitotic "late" stages that show detectable levels of starch deposition. Microspores from high temperature stress conditions showed starch-deficiency and considerably reduced germination, translating into 27% loss in seed-set. Sugar profiles showed significant differences in hexose levels at both "early" and "late" stages at the two temperature regimes; and most notably, undetectable sucrose and approximately 50% lower starch content in "late" microspores from heat-stressed plants. Northern blot, quantitative PCR, and immunolocalization data revealed a significant reduction in the steady-state transcript abundance of SbIncw1 gene and CWI proteins in both sporophytic as well as microgametophytic tissues under high temperature conditions. Northern blot analyses also indicated greatly altered temporal expression profiles of various genes involved in sugar cleavage and utilization (SbIncw1, SbIvr2, Sh1, and Sus1), transport (Mha1 and MST1) and starch biosynthesis (Bt2, SU1, GBSS1, and UGPase) in heat-stressed plants. Collectively, these data suggest that impairment of CWI-mediated sucrose hydrolysis and subsequent lack of sucrose biosynthesis may be the most upstream molecular dysfunctions leading to altered carbohydrate metabolism and starch deficiency under elevated growth temperature conditions.
Salt stresses strongly enhance the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase kinase (PEPC-k) activity of sorghum leaves. This work shows that (1) abscisic acid (ABA) increased the rise in kinase activity in illuminated leaf disks of the non-stressed plant, (2) ABA decreased the disappearance of PEPC-k activity in the dark, (3) two PEPC-k genes expressed in sorghum leaves, PPCK1 and PPCK2, were not up-regulated by the phytohormone and, (4) ABA effects were mimicked by MG132, a powerful inhibitor of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Collectively these data support a role for the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway in the rapid turnover of PEPC-k. The negative control by ABA on this pathway might account for the increase of kinase activity observed in salt-treated plants.
Flowering time is a fundamental trait of maize adaptation to different agricultural environments. Although a large body of information is available on the map position of quantitative trait loci for flowering time, little is known about the molecular basis of quantitative trait loci. Through positional cloning and association mapping, we resolved the major flowering-time quantitative trait locus, Vegetative to generative transition 1 (Vgt1), to an approximately 2-kb noncoding region positioned 70 kb upstream of an Ap2-like transcription factor that we have shown to be involved in flowering-time control. Vgt1 functions as a cis-acting regulatory element as indicated by the correlation of the Vgt1 alleles with the transcript expression levels of the downstream gene. Additionally, within Vgt1, we identified evolutionarily conserved noncoding sequences across the maize-sorghum-rice lineages. Our results support the notion that changes in distant cis-acting regulatory regions are a key component of plant genetic adaptation throughout breeding and evolution.
Fumonisins are mycotoxins, produced mainly by Fusarium verticillioides, that are potentially carcinogenic to humans and toxic to animals. Synthesis of these toxins is directed by a cluster of 15 genes, among which FUM1 is the largest; it encodes a polyketide synthase. This enzyme probably catalyzes the synthesis of a polyketide that forms a large portion of the fumonisin structure. In this study, 27 strains possessing the FUM1 gene, as determined by polymerase chain reaction, were analyzed. A portion of the FUM1 gene was amplified and sequenced from 6 of 27 Brazilian strains isolated from corn and sorghum. The sequence similarity for the six F. verticillioides strains was almost 100%.
We report expression profiles of several genes of carbohydrate metabolism, cell wall invertase (CWI) in particular, to better understand sugar transport and its utilization in developing caryopses of grain sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench]. Gene expression analyses for CWI using RNA gel blot and real-time quantitative PCR approaches on developing caryopses, including the glumes (maternal tissue appended to the seeds), showed expression of SbIncw (ZmIncw2 ortholog) primarily in the basal sugar unloading zone of endosperm. The expression of ZmIncw1 ortholog was significantly less abundant and restricted to the glumes. The protein and enzyme activity data corroborated the temporal transcript expression profile that showed maximal CWI protein (INCW) expression preceding the starch-filling phase of endosperm development, i.e. 6-12d-after-pollination (DAP). Protein gel blot analysis using polyclonal maize INCW1 antibodies showed a single polypeptide of 72kDa. The highest level of enzyme activity was unique to the basal part of the endosperm, in particular the basal endosperm transfer cell (BETC) layer and the maternal pedicel region that were highly enriched for the INCW protein, as seen by immunolocalization. High hexose-to-sucrose ratio in 6-12 DAP seeds, and negligible starch deposition in glumes corroborated the CWI activity data. Additionally, we report transcription profiles of several other genes related to sugar-to-starch metabolism in developing sorghum endosperm. As in maize, the INCW-mediated apoplastic cleavage of sucrose in the BETC and pedicel during the early developmental stages of caryopses is essential for the normal development of filial tissues. The unique cell-specificity of the INCW protein to both proximal and distal ends of placental sac shown here for the first time is likely to greatly increase uptakes of both hexose sugars and water through turgor sensing into developing seed. This trait is unique to sorghum among cereals and may facilitate its survival in drought environment.
Different cis acting elements of gamma kafirin gene from Sorghum bicolor var. M 35-1 were amplified and cloned using different combination of the primers. The amplified promoter was replaced with CaMV35S promoter of vector pCMBIA-1304 and resultant vector contained beta-glucuronidase (gus) gene under the control of amplified gamma-kafirin promoter. The resulting fusants were then transformed in to different explants of sorghum via particle bombardment. The regulation of uid gene expression was analyzed to find out the minimum required 5' regulatory sequence and cis acting elements for the efficient expression. However no gus expression was detected in leaves of micropropagated plants, scutellum and calli at any stage of growth. The expression of gus, with pKaf gus-P4 gene construct, was detected in immature embryos and endosperm 20 days after pollination (DAP). The result suggest that at least three motifs (two GCN4 and one prolamin box) besides TATA and CATC boxes are required for the efficient expression of the kafirin gene of sorghum. The study shows that PCR based isolation of different motifs and regions can be used as an alternate to deletion analysis for observing the role of various motifs and their importance in the gene expression and regulation.
Rhizospheric bacterial strains are known to produce indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) through different pathways, and such IAA may be beneficial to plants at low concentrations. IAA biosynthesis by a natural isolate of Azospirillum brasilense SM was studied and observed to be tryptophan-inducible and -dependent in nature. While our work demonstrated the operation of the indole pyruvic acid pathway, the biochemical and molecular evidence for the genes of the indole acetamide (IAM) pathway were lacking in A. brasilense SM. This led us to use the IAM pathway genes as targets for metabolic engineering, with the aim of providing an additional pathway of IAA biosynthesis and improving IAA levels in A. brasilense SM. The introduction of the heterologous IAM pathway, consisting of the iaaM and iaaH genes, not only increased the IAA levels by threefold but also allowed constitutive expression of the same genes along with efficient utilization of IAM as a substrate. Such an engineered strain showed a superior effect on the lateral branching of sorghum roots as well as the dry weight of the plants when compared with the wild-type strain. Such an improved bioinoculant could be demonstrated to enhance root proliferation and biomass productivity of treated plants compared with the parental strain.
Sorgoleone, produced in root hair cells of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), is likely responsible for much of the allelopathic properties of sorghum root exudates against broadleaf and grass weeds. Previous studies suggest that the biosynthetic pathway of this compound initiates with the synthesis of an unusual 16:3 fatty acid possessing a terminal double bond. The corresponding fatty acyl-CoA serves as a starter unit for polyketide synthases, resulting in the formation of 5-pentadecatrienyl resorcinol. This resorcinolic intermediate is then methylated by an S-adenosylmethionine-dependent O-methyltransferase and subsequently dihydroxylated, yielding the reduced (hydroquinone) form of sorgoleone. To characterize the corresponding enzymes responsible for the biosynthesis of the 16:3 fatty acyl-CoA precursor, we identified and cloned three putative fatty acid desaturases, designated SbDES1, SbDES2, and SbDES3, from an expressed sequence tag (EST) data base prepared from isolated root hairs. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analyses revealed that these three genes were preferentially expressed in sorghum root hairs where the 16:2 and 16:3 fatty acids were exclusively localized. Heterologous expression of the cDNAs in Saccharomyces cerevisiae revealed that recombinant SbDES2 converted palmitoleic acid (16:1Delta(9)) to hexadecadienoic acid (16:2Delta(9,12)), and that recombinant SbDES3 was capable of converting hexadecadienoic acid into hexadecatrienoic acid (16:3Delta(9,12,15)). Unlike other desaturases reported to date, the double bond introduced by SbDES3 occurred between carbons 15 and 16 resulting in a terminal double bond aliphatic chain. Collectively, the present results strongly suggest that these fatty acid desaturases represent key enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of the allelochemical sorgoleone.
Sorghum is an important source of food, feed, and biofuel, especially in the semi-arid tropics because this cereal is well adapted to harsh, drought-prone environments. Post-flowering drought adaptation in sorghum is associated with the stay-green phenotype. Alleles that contribute to this complex trait have been mapped to four major QTL, Stg1-Stg4, using a population derived from BTx642 and RTx7000. Near-isogenic RTx7000 lines containing BTx642 DNA spanning one or more of the four stay-green QTL were constructed. The size and location of BTx642 DNA regions in each RTx7000 NIL were analysed using 62 DNA markers spanning the four stay-green QTL. RTx7000 NILs were identified that contained BTx642 DNA completely or partially spanning Stg1, Stg2, Stg3, or Stg4. NILs were also identified that contained sub-portions of each QTL and various combinations of the four major stay-green QTL. Physiological analysis of four RTx7000 NILs containing only Stg1, Stg2, Stg3, or Stg4 showed that BTx642 alleles in each of these loci could contribute to the stay-green phenotype. RTx7000 NILs containing BTx642 DNA corresponding to Stg2 retained more green leaf area at maturity under terminal drought conditions than RTx7000 or the other RTx7000 NILs. Under post-anthesis water deficit, a trend for delayed onset of leaf senescence compared with RTx7000 was also exhibited by the Stg2, Stg3, and Stg4 NILs, while significantly lower rates of leaf senescence in relation to RTx7000 were displayed by all of the Stg NILs to varying degrees, but particularly by the Stg2 NIL. Greener leaves at anthesis relative to RTx7000, indicated by higher SPAD values, were exhibited by the Stg1 and Stg4 NILs. The RTx7000 NILs created in this study provide the starting point for in-depth analysis of stay-green physiology, interaction among stay-green QTL and map-based cloning of the genes that underlie this trait.
A dual-marker plasmid containing the selectable marker gene, manA, and the reporter gene, sgfp, was used to transform immature sorghum embryos by employing an Agrobacterium-mediated system. Both genes were under the control of the ubi1 promoter in a binary vector pPZP201. The Escherichia coli phosphomannose isomerase (PMI) gene, pmi, was used as the selectable marker gene and mannose was used as the selective agent. The sgfp gene encoding green fluorescence protein (GFP) was the reporter gene and served as a visual screening marker. A total of 167 transgenic plants were obtained from nine different embryogenic callus lines grown on a selection medium containing 1%-2% mannose. Embryoids and shoots regenerated via embryogenesis, that showed strong GFP fluorescence, were selected from two sorghum genotypes: C401, an inbred line, and Pioneer 8505, a commercial hybrid. The GFP accumulation in transgenic plants was observed with a dissecting stereomicroscope. The integration and expression of the manA gene was confirmed by Southern blot and Western blot analyses, and the feasibility of manA selection was demonstrated by the chlorophenol red (CPR) assay. Our results indicated that transgenes segregated in the Mendelian fashion in the T1 generation. The conversion of mannose to a metabolizable fructose carbon source is beneficial to plants. In addition, except in soybean and a few legumes, no endogenous PMI activity has been detected in plant species, indicating that PMI is useful in the transformation of sorghum. In addition, PMI has no sequence homology to known allergens. Optimization of this selection system for sorghum transformation provides an efficient way to produce transgenic plants without using antibiotic or herbicidal agents as selectable markers, and our results showed that the transformation efficiency reached 2.88% for Pioneer 8505 and 3.30% for C401, both values higher than in previously published reports.
Rhizomes are organs of fundamental importance to plant competitiveness and invasiveness. We have identified genes expressed at substantially higher levels in rhizomes than other plant parts, and explored their functional categorization, genomic organization, regulatory motifs, and association with quantitative trait loci (QTLs) conferring rhizomatousness. The finding that genes with rhizome-enriched expression are distributed across a wide range of functional categories suggests some degree of specialization of individual members of many gene families in rhizomatous plants. A disproportionate share of genes with rhizome-enriched expression was implicated in secondary and hormone metabolism, and abiotic stimuli and development. A high frequency of unknown-function genes reflects our still limited knowledge of this plant organ. A putative oligosaccharyl transferase showed the highest degree of rhizome-specific expression, with several transcriptional or regulatory protein complex factors also showing high (but lesser) degrees of specificity. Inferred by the upstream sequences of their putative rice (Oryza sativa) homologs, sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) genes that were relatively highly expressed in rhizome tip tissues were enriched for cis-element motifs, including the pyrimidine box, TATCCA box, and CAREs box, implicating the gibberellins in regulation of many rhizome-specific genes. From cDNA clones showing rhizome-enriched expression, expressed sequence tags forming 455 contigs were plotted on the rice genome and aligned to QTL likelihood intervals for ratooning and rhizomatous traits in rice and sorghum. Highly expressed rhizome genes were somewhat enriched in QTL likelihood intervals for rhizomatousness or ratooning, with specific candidates including some of the most rhizome-specific genes. Some rhizomatousness and ratooning QTLs were shown to be potentially related to one another as a result of ancient duplication, suggesting long-term functional conservation of the underlying genes. Insight into genes and pathways that influence rhizome growth set the stage for genetic and/or exogenous manipulation of rhizomatousness, and for further dissection of the molecular evolution of rhizomatousness.
In the present work, the effect of LiCl on phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase kinase (PEPCase-k), C4 phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPCase: EC 4.1.1.31) and its phosphorylation process has been investigated in illuminated leaf disks and leaves of the C4 plant Sorghum vulgare. Although this salt induced severe damages to older leaves, it did not significantly alter the physiological parameters (photosynthesis, transpiration rate, intercellular CO2 concentration) of young leaves. An immunological approach was used to demonstrate that the PEPCase-k protein accumulated rapidly in illuminated leaf tissues, consistent with the increase in its catalytic activity. In vivo, LiCl was shown to strongly enhance the light effect on PEPCase-k protein content, this process being dependent on protein synthesis. In marked contrast, the salt was found to inhibit the PEPCase-k activity in reconstituted assays and to decrease the C4 PEPCase content and phosphorylation state in LiCl treated plants. Short-term (15 min) LiCl treatment increased IP3 levels, PPCK gene expression, and PEPCase-k accumulation. Extending the treatment (1 h) markedly decreased IP3 and PPCK gene expression, while PEPCase-k activity was kept high. The cytosolic protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide (CHX), which blocked the light-dependent up-regulation of the kinase in control plants, was found not to be active on this process in preilluminated, LiCl-treated leaves. This suggested that the salt causes the kinase turnover to be altered, presumably by decreasing degradation of the corresponding polypeptide. Taken together, these results establish PEPCase-k and PEPCase phosphorylation as lithium targets in higher plants and that this salt can provide a means to investigate further the organization and functioning of the cascade controlling the activity of both enzymes.
Three unique sorghum flavonoid 3'-hydroxylase (F3'H) cDNAs (SbF3'H1, SbF3'H2 and SbF3'H3) were discovered through bioinformatics analysis. Their encoded proteins showed >60% identity to the Arabidopsis TT7 (F3'H) protein. Overexpression of SbF3'H1 or SbF3'H2 restored the ability of tt7 mutants to produce 3'-hydroxylated flavonoids, establishing their roles as functional F3'H enzymes. In sorghum mesocotyls, SbF3'H1 expression was involved in light-specific anthocyanin accumulation while SbF3'H2 expression was involved in pathogen-specific 3-deoxyanthocyanidin synthesis. No SbF3'H3 expression was detected in all tissues examined. The sorghum mesocotyls represent a good system for investigation of differential regulation of F3'H genes/alleles responding to different external stimuli.
We have examined the complexity of the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase kinase (PPCK) gene family in the C(4) monocots maize and sorghum. Maize contains at least four PPCK genes. The encoded proteins are similar to other phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) kinases, in that they comprise a protein kinase domain with minimal extensions, except that two of the proteins contain unusual acidic insertions. The spatial and temporal expression patterns of the genes provide information about their presumed functions. Expression of ZmPPCK1 in leaves is mesophyll cell-specific and light-induced, indicating that it encodes the PEPC kinase that is responsible for the phosphorylation of leaf PEPC during C(4) photosynthesis. Surprisingly, ZmPPCK2 is expressed in leaf bundle sheath cells, preferentially in the dark. This suggests that a main function of the ZmPPCK2 gene product is to allow PEPC to function anaplerotically in bundle sheath cells in the dark without interfering with the C(4) cycle. ZmPPCK2, ZmPPCK3 and ZmPPCK4 are all induced by exposure of tissue to cycloheximide, whereas ZmPPCK1 is not. This suggests that the ZmPPCK2, ZmPPCK3 and ZmPPCK4 genes share the property that their expression is controlled by a rapidly turning over repressor. Sequence and expression data show that sorghum contains orthologues of ZmPPCK1 and ZmPPCK2.
To clarify the molecular mechanism that regulates iron (Fe) acquisition in graminaceous plants, a time-course analysis of gene expression during Fe deficiency stress was conducted using a rice 22K oligo-DNA microarray. Twenty-one genes for proteins that function in gene regulation were induced by Fe deficiency. Of these genes, a putative basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor gene, named OsIRO2, was strongly expressed in both roots and shoots during Fe deficiency stress. The expression of OsIRO2 was induced exclusively by Fe deficiency, and not by deficiencies in other metals. Expression of the barley HvIRO2 gene, which is a homologue of OsIRO2, was also induced by Fe deficiency. An in silico search revealed that IRO2 is highly conserved among graminaceous plants, which include wheat, sorghum, and maize. The cyclic amplification and selection of targets (CASTing) technique revealed that OsIRO2 bound preferentially to the sequence 5'-ACCACGTGGTTTT-3', and the electrophoretic mobility shift assay revealed 5'-CACGTGG-3' as the core sequence for OsIRO2 binding. Sequences similar to the OsIRO2-binding sequence were found upstream of several genes that are involved in Fe acquisition, such as OsNAS1, OsNAS3, OsIRT1, OsFDH, OsAPT1, and IDS3. The core sequence of the OsIRO2-binding sequence occurred more frequently in the upstream regions of Fe deficiency-inducible genes than in the corresponding regions of non-inducible genes. These results suggest that IRO2 is involved in the regulation of gene expression under Fe-deficient conditions.
In recent years, microRNAs (miRNAs) have polarized the interest of the scientific community as a new category of gene expression regulators, present in both plants and animals. Plant miRNAs are involved in processes such as plant development, organ identity, and stress response. Nonetheless, knowledge of their functions is still incomplete, and it is conceivable that further new processes in which they are involved will be discovered. For these reasons, structural and functional characterization of MIR genes, that are also in crop species such as Zea mays L., becomes instrumental in addressing genetic and molecular mechanisms controlling phenotype determination and phenotypic adaptation to growing conditions. The present study contributes to the characterization of five miRNA families in maize, from the determination of their expression pattern in different maize tissues and genotypes, to the identification of putative targets by bioinformatic means and subsequent experimental validation of three targets by modified 5' RACE experiments. Furthermore, 30 different MIR genes belonging to these five miRNA families were analysed by their attribution to maize chromosomes using oat-maize addition lines and by investigating their phylogenetic relationship with genes from other cereals. In particular, sequence homology was determined by the reciprocal best BLAST hit approach, to define groups of homologous genes between maize, rice, and sorghum.
The maize INDETERMINATE1 gene, ID1, is a key regulator of the transition to flowering and the founding member of a transcription factor gene family that encodes a protein with a distinct arrangement of zinc finger motifs. The zinc fingers and surrounding sequence make up the signature ID domain (IDD), which appears to be found in all higher plant genomes. The presence of zinc finger domains and previous biochemical studies showing that ID1 binds to DNA suggests that members of this gene family are involved in transcriptional regulation. Comparison of IDD genes identified in Arabidopsis and rice genomes, and all IDD genes discovered in maize EST and genomic databases, suggest that ID1 is a unique member of this gene family. High levels of sequence similarity amongst all IDD genes from maize, rice and Arabidopsis suggest that they are derived from a common ancestor. Several unique features of ID1 suggest that it is a divergent member of the maize IDD family. Although no clear ID1 ortholog was identified in the Arabidopsis genome, highly similar genes that encode proteins with identity extending beyond the ID domain were isolated from rice and sorghum. Phylogenetic comparisons show that these putative orthologs, along with maize ID1, form a group separate from other IDD genes. In contrast to ID1 mRNA, which is detected exclusively in immature leaves, several maize IDD genes showed a broad range of expression in various tissues. Further, Western analysis with an antibody that cross-reacts with ID1 protein and potential orthologs from rice and sorghum shows that all three proteins are detected in immature leaves only. Comparative genomic analysis shows that the IDD zinc finger family is highly conserved among both monocots and dicots. The leaf-specific ID1 expression pattern distinguishes it from other maize IDD genes examined. A similar leaf-specific localization pattern was observed for the putative ID1 protein orthologs from rice and sorghum. These similarities between ID1 and closely related genes in other grasses point to possible similarities in function.
Grande is an abundant gypsy-like retrotransposon present in the genera Zea and Tripsacum. Related retro transposon families can be found in sorghum, rice, and barley, but not in wheat or rye. We have amplified and sequenced several copies of part of the integrase domain derived from the Zea mays, Zea diploperennis, and Tripsacum dactyloides genomes. There are no significant differences in divergence or clustering between the integrase sequences of these species. The substitution rate for synonimous sites was found to be higher than those of non-synomymous sites; this indicates that Grande integrase has been under purifying selection for function. Grande is transcribed in leaves. The transcripts show sequence diversity similar to that of genomic sequences, but belong to restricted clades; this indicates that only some evolutionary branches of Grande have retained transcriptional competence.
Sorghum SbSTS1 was the first example of a stilbene synthase gene in monocots. Previously, we demonstrated that the gene was involved in defense responses. To examine its biochemical function in planta, SbSTS1 was overexpressed in transgenic Arabidopsis. Metabolite analysis revealed that cis-resveratrol glucoside (piceid) accumulated as the major stilbene in the transgenic lines. Using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in selected reaction monitoring mode, up to 580 microg g(-1) FW of cis-piceid were detected in 2-week-old plants, which represent a convenient source of the cis-isomers for pharmacological investigations. Our results also suggested the presence of unknown stilbene isomerase activities in Arabidopsis.
Plant diseases are major contributing factors for crop loss in agriculture. Here, we show that Arabidopsis plants with high levels of novel glucosinolates (GSs) as a result of the introduction of single CYP79 genes exhibit altered disease resistance. Arabidopsis expressing CYP79D2 from cassava accumulated aliphatic isopropyl and methylpropyl GS, and showed enhanced resistance against the bacterial soft-rot pathogen Erwinia carotovora, whereas Arabidopsis expressing the sorghum CYP79A1 or over-expressing the endogenous CYP79A2 accumulated p-hydroxybenzyl or benzyl GS, respectively, and showed increased resistance towards the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae. In addition to the direct toxic effects of GS breakdown products, increased accumulation of aromatic GSs was shown to stimulate salicylic acid-mediated defenses while suppressing jasmonate-dependent defenses, as manifested in enhanced susceptibility to the fungus Alternaria brassicicola. Arabidopsis with modified GS profiles provide important tools for evaluating the biological effects of individual GSs and thereby show potential as biotechnological tools for the generation of plants with tailor-made disease resistance.
The transcriptional activity of the sorghum sbeIIb gene, encoding starch branching enzyme IIb, is seed specific, with expression in both the endosperm and the embryo. In comparison, expression of barley sbeIIb is confined to the endosperm, whereas that of barley sbeIIa occurs in endosperm, embryonic and vegetative tissues. It has been suggested that the second intron of barley sbeIIb may be instrumental in conferring endosperm-specific expression. Therefore, to further investigate the regulatory mechanisms of barley and sorghum sbe, we examined the tissue-specific activity of the sorghum sbe promoter in transient assays of green fluorescent protein (gfp) reporter constructs. We found that, when linked to the barley sbeIIb second intron, the sorghum sbeIIb promoter could not drive gfp transcription in sorghum or barley embryonic cells. Similar results were obtained for the barley sbeIIa promoter. Database searches showed that sequences homologous to the barley sbeIIb intron also exist in introns and flanking regions of some other grass genes. Deletion mutagenesis of the sorghum sbeIIb promoter identified the minimal promoters required for high- and low-level expression, respectively, but did not reveal any putative promoter elements crucial for expression. A sequence with similarity to the SURE element, implicated in sugar signaling, was located in the distal promoter region of sorghum sbeIIb, upstream of the minimal promoters. SURE elements are present in the proximal promoter regions of the sugar-regulated barley iso1 gene, and barley sbeIIb. In keeping in line with these observations, RNA-gel blot analyses demonstrated that expression of barley sbeIIb was sugar inducible, whereas that of sorghum sbeIIb was not.
A multigenic trait (biosynthesis of the secondary metabolite, dhurrin cyanogenic glucoside) was engineered de novo in grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.). This follows a recent report of transfer of the same trait to Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) using three genetic sequences from sorghum (Sorghum bicolor): two cytochrome P450-encoding cDNAs (CYP79A1 and CYP71E1) and a UDPG-glucosyltransferase-encoding cDNA (sbHMNGT). Here we describe the two-step process involving whole plant transformation followed by hairy root transformation, which was used to transfer the same three sorghum sequences to grapevine. Transgenic grapevine hairy root lines that accumulated transcript from none, one (sbHMNGT), two (CYP79A1 and CYP71E1) or all three transgenes were recovered and characterisation of these lines provided information about the requirements for dhurrin biosynthesis in grapevine. Only lines that accumulated transcripts from all three transgenes had significantly elevated cyanide potential (up to the equivalent of about 100 mg HCN kg(-1) fresh weight), and levels were highly variable. One dhurrin-positive line was tested and found to release cyanide upon maceration and can therefore be considered 'cyanogenic'. In in vitro dual co-culture of this cyanogenic hairy root line or an acyanogenic line with the specialist root-sucking, gall-forming, aphid-like insect, grapevine phylloxera (Daktulosphaira vitifoliae, Fitch), there was no evidence for protection of the cyanogenic plant tissue from infestation by the insect. Consistently high levels of dhurrin accumulation may be required for this to occur. The possibility that endogenous grapevine gene expression is modulated in response to engineered dhurrin biosynthesis was investigated using microarray analysis of 1225 grapevine ESTs, but differences in patterns of gene expression associated with dhurrin-positive and dhurrin-negative phenotypes were not identified.
A rapid and reproducible Agrobacterium-mediated transformation protocol for sorghum has been developed. The protocol uses the nptII selectable marker gene with either of the aminoglycosides geneticin or paromomycin. A screen of various A. tumefaciens strains revealed that a novel C58 nopaline chromosomal background carrying the chrysanthopine disarmed Ti plasmid pTiKPSF(2), designated NTL(4)/Chry5, was most efficient for gene transfer to sorghum immature embryos. A NTL(4)/Chry5 transconjugant harboring the pPTN290 binary plasmid, which carries nptII and GUSPlus expression cassettes, was used in a series of stable transformation experiments with Tx430 and C2-97 sorghum genotypes and approximately 80% of these transformation experiments resulted in the recovery of at least one transgenic event. The transformation frequencies among the successful experiments ranged from 0.3 to 4.5%, with the average transformation frequency being approximately 1% for both genotypes. Over 97% of the transgenic events were successfully established in the greenhouse and were fully fertile. Co-expression of GUSPlus occurred in 89% of the transgenic T(0) events. Seed set for the primary transgenic plants ranged from 145 to 1400 seed/plant. Analysis of T(1) progeny demonstrated transmission of the transgenes in a simple Mendelian fashion in the majority of events.
The present study reports the cloning of a 581 bp sequence, designated as SbEST8, from the osmotically stressed germinated seeds of a drought tolerant cultivar of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). The SbEST8, which shows no homology with the reported gene sequences, is present in multiple copies and lacks restriction fragment length polymorphism among different sorghum cultivars. The expression of SbEST8 in the germinating seeds of sorghum was modulated by different abiotic stresses. Kinetic studies revealed that imposition of osmotic stress after 8h resulted in maximum levels of SbEST8 mRNA in the germinating seeds of cv. ICSV-272, with further stress causing a decline to undetectable levels by 16 h. However, relieving the stress after 12h resulted in an enhancement of SbEST8 mRNA levels for at least another 4h following which it declined. The decrease in SbEST8 mRNA levels in the leaves at 30 DAS in response to drought stress was observed only in the drought susceptible cultivar (CSV-216), whereas its expression was either increased substantially or remained unaffected in the tolerant cultivars, thus suggesting its role in water stress tolerance.
The selection of suitable inducible-promoters is one of the most important chains in transgenic researches for plant tolerances to drought, dehydration and other abiotic stresses. Based on laboratory researches in the past years, it was set up a set of methods that could be used to rapidly determine the transient expression characteristics of drought- and dehydration-inducible promoters by using whole barley seedling and plant leaves in vitro as bombardment objects. Promoters Dhn4s, Dhn8s, HVA1s, Rab16Bj and wsi18j isolated from barley and rice were able to express GFP in the leaves of barley, wheat, rice, sorghum and fern after drying treatment, but not in laves of mungbean and tomato. The qualitative expression of HVA1s and wsi18j in different organs and tissues of barley was identified. A method for quantitative analysis of promoter transient expression was established by means of GFP foci/GUS foci counting or GUS activity/XYN activity test. Finally, the value and prospect of the methodology were discussed in terms of its application to the analysis of plant promoters inducible by environmental factors.
Light is one of the environmental signals that regulate the development of shoot architecture. Molecular mechanisms regulating shoot branching by light signals have not been investigated in detail. Analyses of light signaling mutants defective in branching provide insight into the molecular events associated with the phenomenon. It is well documented that phytochrome B (phyB) mutant plants display constitutive shade avoidance responses, including increased plant height and enhanced apical dominance. We investigated the phyB-1 mutant sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and analyzed the expression of the sorghum Teosinte Branched1 gene (SbTB1), which encodes a putative transcription factor that suppresses bud outgrowth, and the sorghum dormancy-associated gene (SbDRM1), a marker of bud dormancy. Buds are formed in the leaf axils of phyB-1; however, they enter into dormancy soon after their formation. The dormant state of phyB-1 buds is confirmed by the high level of expression of the SbDRM1 gene. The level of SbTB1 mRNA is higher in the buds of phyB-1 compared to wild type, suggesting that phyB mediates the growth of axillary shoots in response to light signals in part by regulating the mRNA abundance of SbTB1. These results are confirmed by growing wild-type seedlings with supplemental far-red light that induces shade avoidance responses. We hypothesize that active phyB (Pfr) suppresses the expression of the SbTB1 gene, thereby inducing bud outgrowth, whereas environmental conditions that inactivate phyB allow increased expression of SbTB1, thereby suppressing bud outgrowth.
Sequence characterization of the genomic region of sorghum yellow seed 1 shows the presence of two genes that are arranged in a head to tail orientation. The two duplicated gene copies, y1 and y2 are separated by a 9.084 kbp intergenic region, which is largely composed of highly repetitive sequences. The y1 is the functional copy, while the y2 may represent a pseudogene; there are several sequence indels and rearrangements within the putative coding region of y2. The y1 gene encodes a R2R3 type of Myb domain protein that regulates the expression of chalcone synthase, chalcone isomerase and dihydroflavonol reductase genes required for the biosynthesis of 3-deoxyflavonoids. Expression of y1 can be observed throughout the plant and it represents a combination of expression patterns produced by different alleles of the maize p1. Comparative sequence analysis within the coding regions and flanking sequences of y1, y2 and their maize and teosinte orthologs show local rearrangements and insertions that may have created modified regulatory regions. These micro-colinearity modifications possibly are responsible for differential patterns of expression in maize and sorghum floral and vegetative tissues. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that sorghum y1 and y2 sequences may have arisen by gene duplication mechanisms and represent an evolutionarily parallel event to the duplication of maize p2 and p1 genes.
Genetic control of grass inflorescence architecture is critical given that cereal seeds provide most of the world's food. Seeds are borne on axillary branches, which arise from groups of stem cells in axils of leaves and whose branching patterns dictate most of the variation in plant form. Normal maize (Zea mays) ears are unbranched, and tassels have long branches only at their base. The ramosa2 (ra2) mutant of maize has increased branching with short branches replaced by long, indeterminate ones. ra2 was cloned by chromosome walking and shown to encode a LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARY domain transcription factor. ra2 is transiently expressed in a group of cells that predicts the position of axillary meristem formation in inflorescences. Expression in different mutant backgrounds places ra2 upstream of other genes that regulate branch formation. The early expression of ra2 suggests that it functions in the patterning of stem cells in axillary meristems. Alignment of ra2-like sequences reveals a grass-specific domain in the C terminus that is not found in Arabidopsis thaliana. The ra2-dm allele suggests this domain is required for transcriptional activation of ra1. The ra2 expression pattern is conserved in rice (Oryza sativa), barley (Hordeum vulgare), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and maize, suggesting that ra2 is critical for shaping the initial steps of grass inflorescence architecture.
The phloem-feeding by greenbug (Schizaphis graminum) elicits unique interactions with their host plants. To investigate the expression profiles of sorghum genes responsive to greenbug feeding, two subtractive cDNA libraries were constructed through different combinatorial subtractions in a strong greenbug resistance sorghum M627 line and a susceptible Tx7000 line with or without greenbug infestation. A total of 3,508 cDNAs were selected from the two cDNA libraries, and subsequent cDNA microarray and northern blot analyses were performed for identification of sorghum genes responsive to greenbugs. In total, 157 sorghum transcripts were identified to be differentially expressed by greenbug feeding. The greenbug responsive genes were isolated and classified into nine categories according to the functional roles in plant metabolic pathways, such as defense, signal transduction, cell wall fortification, oxidative burst/stress, photosynthesis, development, cell maintenance, abiotic stress, and unknown function. Overall, the profiles of sorghum genes, responsive to greenbug phloem-feeding shared common identities with other expression profiles known to be elicited by diverse stresses, including pathogenesis, abiotic stress, and wounding. In addition to well-known defense related regulators such as salicylic acid, jasmonic acid, and abscisic acid, auxin and gibberellic acid were also involved in mediation of the defense responses against greenbug phloem-feeding in sorghum.
Plastid NADP-dependent malate dehydrogenase (MDH) catalyses the conversion of oxaloacetate to malate. In C4 plants, it is involved in photosynthetic carbon assimilation. In Poaceae, one NADP-MDH gene has been identified in rice (C3; Erhartoideae) and maize (C4; Panicoideae), whereas two tandemly repeated genes have been identified in Sorghum (C4; Panicoideae). In the present study, the molecular evolution of the NADP-MDH multigene family was investigated in order to analyse how the C4 isoform has evolved over a broader range of panicoid grasses. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based cloning was used to isolate cDNAs encoding NADP-MDHs from 15 species of Panicoideae. A gene phylogeny was reconstructed based on cDNA sequences using distance and maximum parsimony methods. Episodic selection along some branches of the phylogenetic tree was tested by analysing non-synonymous and synonymous rate ratios. Transcription of NADP-MDH genes was compared in green leaves of five accessions of Saccharum, Sorghum and Vetiveria using a semi-quantitative PCR approach. Phylogenetic analyses of these data support the existence of two NADP-MDH gene lineages (NMDH-I and NMDH-II) in several Andropogoneae (i.e. Saccharum, Sorghum and Vetiveria). Episodic positive selection was shown along the basal branch of the NMDH-II clade. Three amino acid modifications allow the two gene lineages to be distinguished, suggesting a positive selection at these sites. In green leaves, we showed that the transcript accumulation was higher for NMDH-I than for NMDH-II. It is hypothesized that the maintenance of both NADP-MDH genes in some Andropogoneae is due to a partition of the original functions across both copies. NMDH-I probably corresponds to the C4 isoform as previously suggested. Nevertheless, some C4 species (e.g. maize) only have one gene which should be selected for its high expression level in leaves. This study confirms that gene duplicates have been recruited for C4 photosynthesis but are not required in every case.
Directional transport of the phytohormone auxin is required for the establishment and maintenance of plant polarity, but the underlying molecular mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. Plant homologs of human multiple drug resistance/P-glycoproteins (MDR/PGPs) have been implicated in auxin transport, as defects in MDR1 (AtPGP19) and AtPGP1 result in reductions of growth and auxin transport in Arabidopsis (atpgp1, atpgp19), maize (brachytic2) and sorghum (dwarf3). Here we examine the localization, activity, substrate specificity and inhibitor sensitivity of AtPGP1. AtPGP1 exhibits non-polar plasma membrane localization at the shoot and root apices, as well as polar localization above the root apex. Protoplasts from Arabidopsis pgp1 leaf mesophyll cells exhibit reduced efflux of natural and synthetic auxins with reduced sensitivity to auxin efflux inhibitors. Expression of AtPGP1 in yeast and in the standard mammalian expression system used to analyze human MDR-type proteins results in enhanced efflux of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and the synthetic auxin 1-naphthalene acetic acid (1-NAA), but not the inactive auxin 2-NAA. AtPGP1-mediated efflux is sensitive to auxin efflux and ABC transporter inhibitors. As is seen in planta, AtPGP1 also appears to mediate some efflux of IAA oxidative breakdown products associated with apical sites of high auxin accumulation. However, unlike what is seen in planta, some additional transport of the benzoic acid is observed in yeast and mammalian cells expressing AtPGP1, suggesting that other factors present in plant tissues confer enhanced auxin specificity to PGP-mediated transport.
Occurrence of genetic instability and formation of stable mutations are basic genetic processes. This study demonstrates that nuclear background may influence the formation of stable dominant nuclear gene of male sterility (MS) on the basis of unstable mutation, which was induced in tissue culture of the sorghum haploid (cv. Milo-145). The mutants with complete or partial MS segregated in variable ratios in the progenies of diploid regenerants were obtained from different experiments on cultivation of haploid tissues. In the Milo-145 genetic background the mutation demonstrated somatic instability and was gradually eliminated by self-pollination of partially sterile plants. Hybridization of the MS-plants with the sorghum line SK-723, a fertility-restorer of the cytoplasmic MS A1 (milo) type, maintained the induced mutation. By repeated backcrossing of MS-plants with SK-723, the male-sterile versions of this line (SK-723- Ms(tc)) have been created. In BC-generations, fertile, partially and completely sterile plants were observed. The MS-plants from BC-generations are proposed to contain a dominant gene Ms(tc) while fertile plants were ms(tc)/ms(tc) homozygotes. Crossing the original MS-plants with SK-723 was a key factor in stabilization of the Ms(tc) gene. Dominant expression of the Ms(tc) was observed in male-sterile versions of other sorghum lines created by backcrossing to SK-723- Ms(tc). The lines fertility-restorers for this mutation have been revealed. In the crosses of restored F1 hybrids with emasculated plants of the non-restoring line, the Ms(tc) has been transferred through the pollen and manifested in the F1 generation. The possibility of the Ms(tc) originating as a result of interaction of an unstable allele of the Milo-145 with the SK-723 genome is discussed.
Rice is an important staple food and, with the smallest cereal genome, serves as a reference species for studies on the evolution of cereals and other grasses. Therefore, decoding its entire genome will be a prerequisite for applied and basic research on this species and all other cereals. We have determined and analyzed the complete sequences of two of its chromosomes, 11 and 12, which total 55.9 Mb (14.3% of the entire genome length), based on a set of overlapping clones. A total of 5,993 non-transposable element related genes are present on these chromosomes. Among them are 289 disease resistance-like and 28 defense-response genes, a higher proportion of these categories than on any other rice chromosome. A three-Mb segment on both chromosomes resulted from a duplication 7.7 million years ago (mya), the most recent large-scale duplication in the rice genome. Paralogous gene copies within this segmental duplication can be aligned with genomic assemblies from sorghum and maize. Although these gene copies are preserved on both chromosomes, their expression patterns have diverged. When the gene order of rice chromosomes 11 and 12 was compared to wheat gene loci, significant synteny between these orthologous regions was detected, illustrating the presence of conserved genes alternating with recently evolved genes. Because the resistance and defense response genes, enriched on these chromosomes relative to the whole genome, also occur in clusters, they provide a preferred target for breeding durable disease resistance in rice and the isolation of their allelic variants. The recent duplication of a large chromosomal segment coupled with the high density of disease resistance gene clusters makes this the most recently evolved part of the rice genome. Based on syntenic alignments of these chromosomes, rice chromosome 11 and 12 do not appear to have resulted from a single whole-genome duplication event as previously suggested.
Transgenic sorghum plants expressing a synthetic cry1Ac gene from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) under the control of a wound-inducible promoter from the maize protease inhibitor gene (mpiC1) were produced via particle bombardment of shoot apices. Plants were regenerated from the transformed shoot apices via direct somatic embryogenesis with an intermittent three-step selection strategy using the herbicide Basta. Molecular characterisation based on polymerase chain reaction and Southern blot analysis revealed multiple insertions of the cry1Ac gene in five plants from three independent transformation events. Inheritance and expression of the Bt gene was confirmed in T(1) plants. Enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay indicated that Cry1Ac protein accumulated at levels of 1-8 ng per gram of fresh tissue in leaves that were mechanically wounded. Transgenic sorghum plants were evaluated for resistance against the spotted stem borer (Chilo partellus Swinhoe) in insect bioassays, which indicated partial resistance to damage by the neonate larvae of the spotted stem borer. Reduction in leaf damage 5 days after infestation was up to 60%; larval mortality was 40%, with the surviving larvae showing a 36% reduction in weight over those fed on control plants. Despite the low levels of expression of Bt delta-endotoxin under the control of the wound-inducible promoter, the transgenic plants showed partial tolerance against first instar larvae of the spotted stem borer.
Improved knowledge of the sorghum transcriptome will enhance basic understanding of how plants respond to stresses and serve as a source of genes of value to agriculture. Toward this goal, Sorghum bicolor L. Moench cDNA libraries were prepared from light- and dark-grown seedlings, drought-stressed plants, Colletotrichum-infected seedlings and plants, ovaries, embryos, and immature panicles. Other libraries were prepared with meristems from Sorghum propinquum (Kunth) Hitchc. that had been photoperiodically induced to flower, and with rhizomes from S. propinquum and johnsongrass (Sorghum halepense L. Pers.). A total of 117,682 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were obtained representing both 3' and 5' sequences from about half that number of cDNA clones. A total of 16,801 unique transcripts, representing tentative UniScripts (TUs), were identified from 55,783 3' ESTs. Of these TUs, 9,032 are represented by two or more ESTs. Collectively, these libraries were predicted to contain a total of approximately 31,000 TUs. Individual libraries, however, were predicted to contain no more than about 6,000 to 9,000, with the exception of light-grown seedlings, which yielded an estimate of close to 13,000. In addition, each library exhibits about the same level of complexity with respect to both the number of TUs preferentially expressed in that library and the frequency with which two or more ESTs is found in only that library. These results indicate that the sorghum genome is expressed in highly selective fashion in the individual organs and in response to the environmental conditions surveyed here. Close to 2,000 differentially expressed TUs were identified among the cDNA libraries examined, of which 775 were differentially expressed at a confidence level of 98%. From these 775 TUs, signature genes were identified defining drought, Colletotrichum infection, skotomorphogenesis (etiolation), ovary, immature panicle, and embryo.
Genome wide changes in gene expression were monitored in the drought tolerant C4 cereal Sorghum bicolor, following exposure of seedlings to high salinity (150 mM NaCl), osmotic stress (20% polyethylene glycol) or abscisic acid (125 microM ABA). A sorghum cDNA microarray providing data on 12,982 unique gene clusters was used to examine gene expression in roots and shoots at 3- and 27-h post-treatment. Expression of approximately 2200 genes, including 174 genes with currently unknown functions, of which a subset appear unique to monocots and/or sorghum, was altered in response to dehydration, high salinity or ABA. The modulated sorghum genes had homology to proteins involved in regulation, growth, transport, membrane/protein turnover/repair, metabolism, dehydration protection, reactive oxygen scavenging, and plant defense. Real-time PCR was used to quantify changes in relative mRNA abundance for 333 genes that responded to ABA, NaCl or osmotic stress. Osmotic stress inducible sorghum genes identified for the first time included a beta-expansin expressed in shoots, actin depolymerization factor, inositol-3-phosphate synthase, a non-C4 NADP-malic enzyme, oleosin, and three genes homologous to 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase that may be involved in ABA biosynthesis. Analysis of response profiles demonstrated the existence of a complex gene regulatory network that differentially modulates gene expression in a tissue- and kinetic-specific manner in response to ABA, high salinity and water deficit. Modulation of genes involved in signal transduction, chromatin structure, transcription, translation and RNA metabolism contributes to sorghum's overlapping but nonetheless distinct responses to ABA, high salinity, and osmotic stress. Overall, this study provides a foundation of information on sorghum's osmotic stress responsive gene complement that will accelerate follow up biochemical, QTL and comparative studies.
The external appearance of flowering plants is determined to a large extent by the forms of flower-bearing branch systems, known as inflorescences, and their position in the overall structure of the plant. Branches and branching patterns are produced by tissues called shoot apical meristems. Thus, inflorescence architecture reflects meristem number, arrangement and activity, and the duration of meristem activity correlates with branch length. The inflorescences of maize, unlike those of related grasses such as rice and sorghum, predominantly lack long branches, giving rise to the tassel and familiar corncob. Here we report the isolation of the maize ramosa1 gene and show that it controls inflorescence architecture. Through its expression in a boundary domain near the nascent meristem base, ramosa1 imposes short branch identity as branch meristems are initiated. A second gene, ramosa2, acts through ramosa1 by regulating ramosa1 gene expression levels. ramosa1 encodes a transcription factor that appears to be absent in rice, is heterochronically expressed in sorghum, and may have played an important role in maize domestication and grass evolution.
CRY2 is the apoprotein of cryptochrome 2 and CRY2 cDNA has been cloned from Sorghum bicolor in this study. The results of sequence analysis shows that it contains a complete open reading frame encoding a predicted protein of 690 amino acids sharing 87% identity with the CRY2 of rice, but only 45.5% with that of Arabidopsis and 57% with that of tomato. The DNA sequence of sorghum CRY2 contains three introns and four exons. RT-PCR results show that CRY2 has been transcribed in root, leaf and mesocotyl in sorghum seedlings. CRY2 protein has been shown by Western blot analysis to be present in mesocotyl, leaf and root, and to be accumulated in the dark and to be degraded under blue light.
Metabolic engineering holds great promise as a technique for improving crop plants. However, introducing new metabolic steps can disturb normal metabolism and gene expression, affecting phenotype and quality in undesired ways. Recently, Charlotte Kristensen et al. reported that introducing the sorghum pathway for biosynthesis of the cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin into Arabidopsis plants resulted in high dhurrin levels and only marginal side effects on the metabolome and the transcriptome.
In an important recent paper Kristensen et al. address a question of fundamental importance in plant biotechnology: how are metabolic pathways affected upon introduction of a transgene? Analysis of the transcriptome and metabolome of Arabidopsis thaliana engineered to produce the cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin demonstrated that plants can be tailored in a rational manner with marginal inadvertent effects.
We have conducted a large-scale study of gene expression in the C4 monocot sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) L. Moench cv BTx623 in response to the signaling compounds salicylic acid (SA), methyl jasmonate (MeJA), and the ethylene precursor aminocyclopropane carboxylic acid. Expression profiles were generated from seedling root and shoot tissue at 3 and 27 h, using a microarray containing 12,982 nonredundant elements. Data from 102 slides and quantitative reverse transcription-PCR data on mRNA abundance from 171 genes were collected and analyzed and are here made publicly available. Numerous gene clusters were identified in which expression was correlated with particular signaling compound and tissue combinations. Many genes previously implicated in defense responded to the treatments, including numerous pathogenesis-related genes and most members of the phenylpropanoid pathway, and several other genes that may represent novel activities or pathways. Genes of the octadecanoic acid pathway of jasmonic acid (JA) synthesis were induced by SA as well as by MeJA. The resulting hypothesis that increased SA could lead to increased endogenous JA production was confirmed by measurement of JA content. Comparison of responses to SA, MeJA, and combined SA+MeJA revealed patterns of one-way and mutual antagonisms, as well as synergistic effects on regulation of some genes. These experiments thus help further define the transcriptional results of cross talk between the SA and JA pathways and suggest that a subset of genes coregulated by SA and JA may comprise a uniquely evolved sector of plant signaling responsive cascades.
To transform grain sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) with a visual reporter gene (gfp) and a target gene (tlp), three genotypes (two inbreds, Tx 430 and C401, and a commercial hybrid, Pioneer 8505) were used. We obtained a total of 1011 fertile transgenic plants from 61 independent callus lines, which were produced from 2463 zygotic immature embryos via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The reporter gene, gfp, encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP), was used as a visual screening marker, and the target gene, tlp, encoding thaumatin-like protein (TLP), was chosen for enhancing resistance to fungal diseases and drought. Both genes were under the control of the maize ubi 1 promoter in the binary vector pPZP201. A total of 320 plants showing GFP expression, derived from 45 calli, were selected and analyzed by Southern blot analysis. There was a 100% correlation between the GFP expression and the presence of the target gene, tlp, in these plants. Transgenic plants showing strong TLP expression were confirmed by Western blotting with antiserum specific for TLP. The transgene segregated in various ratios among progeny, which was confirmed by examining seedlings showing GFP fluorescence. The progeny also showed different copy numbers of transgenics. This report describes the successful use of GFP screening for efficient production of stably transformed sorghum plants without using antibiotics or herbicides as selection agents.
A chalcone synthase (CHS)-like gene, SbCHS8, with high expressed sequence tag abundance in a pathogen-induced cDNA library, was identified previously in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). Genomic Southern analysis revealed that SbCHS8 represents a single-copy gene. SbCHS8 expression was induced in sorghum mesocotyls following inoculation with Cochliobolus heterotrophus and Colletotrichum sublineolum, corresponding to nonhost and host defense responses, respectively. However, the induction was delayed by approximately 24 h when compared to the expression of at least one of the other SbCHS genes. In addition, SbCHS8 expression was not induced by light and did not occur in a tissue-specific manner. SbCHS8, together with SbCHS2, was overexpressed in transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) tt4 (transparent testa) mutants defective in CHS activities. SbCHS2 rescued the ability of these mutants to accumulate flavonoids in seed coats and seedlings. In contrast, SbCHS8 failed to complement the mutation, suggesting that the encoded enzyme does not function as a CHS. To elucidate their biochemical functions, recombinant proteins were assayed with different phenylpropanoid-Coenzyme A esters. Flavanones and stilbenes were detected in the reaction products of SbCHS2 and SbCHS8, respectively. Taken together, our data demonstrated that SbCHS2 encodes a typical CHS that synthesizes naringenin chalcone, which is necessary for the formation of different flavonoid metabolites. On the other hand, SbCHS8, now retermed SbSTS1, encodes an enzyme with stilbene synthase activity, suggesting that sorghum accumulates stilbene-derived defense metabolites in addition to the well-characterized 3-deoxyanthocyanidin phytoalexins.
The potential to produce succinate aerobically in Escherichia coli would offer great advantages over anaerobic fermentation in terms of faster biomass generation, carbon throughput, and product formation. Genetic manipulations were performed on two aerobic succinate production systems to increase their succinate yield and productivity. One of the aerobic succinate production systems developed earlier (Biotechnol, Bioeng., 2004, accepted) was constructed with five mutations (DeltasdhAB, Deltaicd, DeltaiclR, DeltapoxB, and Delta(ackA-pta)), which created a highly active glyoxylate cycle. In this study, a second production system was constructed with four of the five above mutations (DeltasdhAB, DeltaiclR, DeltapoxB, and Delta(ackA-pta)). This system has two routes in the aerobic central metabolism for succinate production. One is the glyoxylate cycle and the other is the oxidative branch of the TCA cycle. Inactivation of ptsG and overexpression of a mutant Sorghum pepc in these two production systems showed that the maximum theoretical succinate yield of 1.0 mol/mol glucose consumed could be achieved. Furthermore, the two-route production system with ptsG inactivation and pepc overexpression demonstrated substantially higher succinate productivity than the previous system, a level unsurpassed for aerobic succinate production. This optimized system showed remarkable potential for large-scale aerobic succinate production and process optimization.
Focused and nontargeted approaches were used to assess the impact associated with introduction of new high-flux pathways in Arabidopsis thaliana by genetic engineering. Transgenic A. thaliana plants expressing the entire biosynthetic pathway for the tyrosine-derived cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin as accomplished by insertion of CYP79A1, CYP71E1, and UGT85B1 from Sorghum bicolor were shown to accumulate 4% dry-weight dhurrin with marginal inadvertent effects on plant morphology, free amino acid pools, transcriptome, and metabolome. In a similar manner, plants expressing only CYP79A1 accumulated 3% dry weight of the tyrosine-derived glucosinolate, p-hydroxybenzylglucosinolate with no morphological pleitropic effects. In contrast, insertion of CYP79A1 plus CYP71E1 resulted in stunted plants, transcriptome alterations, accumulation of numerous glucosides derived from detoxification of intermediates in the dhurrin pathway, and in loss of the brassicaceae-specific UV protectants sinapoyl glucose and sinapoyl malate and kaempferol glucosides. The accumulation of glucosides in the plants expressing CYP79A1 and CYP71E1 was not accompanied by induction of glycosyltransferases, demonstrating that plants are constantly prepared to detoxify xenobiotics. The pleiotrophic effects observed in plants expressing sorghum CYP79A1 and CYP71E1 were complemented by retransformation with S. bicolor UGT85B. These results demonstrate that insertion of high-flux pathways directing synthesis and intracellular storage of high amounts of a cyanogenic glucoside or a glucosinolate is achievable in transgenic A. thaliana plants with marginal inadvertent effects on the transcriptome and metabolome.
Functional analysis of chromosomal segments containing linked genes requires the insertion of contiguous genomic sequences from bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) into the genome. Therefore, we introduced a 90-kb large BAC clone carrying a 10-copy tandem array of kafirin storage protein genes from sorghum linkage group J, mixed with a selectable marker gene, directly into maize cells using the particle bombardment method. Transgenic plants were regenerated and seeds from eight different transgenic lines were produced. One such transgenic plant was selected that had the entire kafirin gene cluster on a single continuous DNA fragment spanning more than 45 kb integrated into its genome. When alcohol-soluble proteins from individual T2 and T3 seeds of this event were analyzed, significant levels of kafirin were found in addition to the endogenous zein storage proteins, demonstrating that the large exogenous DNA segment is stably integrated into the maize genome and expressed at high levels in subsequent generations. Therefore, we could provide a new utility of plant transformation by the particle bombardment method for functional genomics of multigene families and the modification of the nutritive quality of cereal grains. Despite a tandem array of highly homologous sequences at the transgenic locus, no gene silencing was observed, probably owing to the effects of co-transformed flanking sequences. The expression studies of the transgenic locus also revealed new features of storage protein gene promoters that differed from previous transient gene expression studies, thereby illustrating the significance of the concentration and configuration of DNA-protein interactions in the regulation of gene expression.
Suppression subtractive hybridization was carried out to enrich gene fragments over-expressed in rice leaves by subtraction to rice roots, from which two identical cDNA fragments were identified to encode putative phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase. Then the corresponding full-length cDNA (Osppc) is isolated by RT-PCR and sequenced, which indicates an open reading frame of 2895bp is contained. Its deduced protein is encoded in 10 exons and shows high similarity to many other plant PEPCs. Comparing with maize and bacterial PEPCs, it is revealed that OSPPC shares many conserved domains and active sites that responsible for the structure, activity and regulation of this enzyme. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrates that OSPPC is grouped with C3 form PEPCs of wheat, maize and sorghum, which is consistent with the classification of rice. And a putative promoter element is predicted with DOF binding box, CAAT box and TATA box in the 5'-flanking sequence of Osppc gene. Moreover, Quantitative RT-PCR analyses are performed in hybrid rice and its parents, which show that Osppc is specifically expressed in leaf including leaf vein and sheath.
Phylogenetic analysis of sequences from gene families and homologous genes from species of varying divergence can be used to identify conserved noncoding regulatory elements. In this study, phylogenetic analysis of 5'-noncoding sequences was optimized using rab17, a well-characterized ABA-responsive gene from maize, and five additional rab16/17 homologs from sorghum and rice. Conserved 5'-noncoding sequences among the maize, sorghum, and rice rab16/17 homologs were identified with the aid of the software program FootPrinter and by screening for known transcription-factor-binding sites. Searches for 7 of 8 (7/8)bp sequence matches within aligned 5'-noncoding segments of the rab genes identified many of the cis-elements previously characterized by biochemical analysis in maize rab17 plus several additional putative regulatory elements. Differences in the composition of conserved noncoding sequences among rab16/17 genes were related to variation in rab gene mRNA levels in different tissues and to response to ABA treatment using qRT-PCR. Absence of a GRA-like element in the promoter of sorghum dhn2 relative to maize rab17 was correlated with an approximately 85-fold reduction of dhn2 RNA in sorghum shoots. Overall, we conclude that phylogenetic analysis of gene families among rice, sorghum, and maize will help identify regulatory sequences in the noncoding regions of genes and contribute to our understanding of grass gene regulatory networks.
The determinants of the thioredoxin (TRX)-dependent redox regulation of the chloroplastic NADP-malate dehydrogenase (NADP-MDH) from the eukaryotic green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii have been investigated using site-directed mutagenesis. The results indicate that a single C-terminal disulfide is responsible for this regulation. The redox midpoint potential of this disulfide is less negative than that of the higher plant enzyme. The regulation is of an all-or-nothing type, lacking the fine-tuning provided by the second N-terminal disulfide found only in NADP-MDH from higher plants. The decreased stability of specific cysteine/alanine mutants is consistent with the presence of a structural disulfide formed by two cysteine residues that are not involved in regulation of activity. Measurements of the ability of C. reinhardtii thioredoxin f (TRX f) to activate wild-type and site-directed mutants of sorghum (Sorghum vulgare) NADP-MDH suggest that the algal TRX f has a redox midpoint potential that is less negative than most those of higher plant TRXs f. These results are discussed from an evolutionary point of view.
Sorghum vulgare phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) and Lactococcus lactis pyruvate carboxylase (PYC) were overexpressed in Escherichia coli concurrently to improve the production of succinate, a valuable industrial specialty chemical. This coexpression system was also applied to E. coli mutant strains strategically designed by inactivating the competing pathways of succinate formation. The highest level of succinate production was observed in E. coli strains coexpressing both PEPC and PYC when compared with E. coli strains individually overexpressing either PEPC or PYC. Lactate production was also significantly reduced with PEPC and PYC coexpression. Lactate and acetate pathways were inactivated to eliminate the competing pathways of succinate formation. Results showed that inactivation of both the lactate and acetate pathways with the coexpression of PEPC and PYC was most effective in improving succinate production. Inactivating the lactate or acetate pathway alone only caused a majority of the carbon flux to shift to other metabolites rather than succinate. Coexpression of PEPC and PYC was also applied to an E. coli mutant strain deficient in lactate dehydrogenase and pyruvate:formate lyase that accumulated a substantial amount of the intermediate metabolite pyruvate during growth. Results showed that PEPC and PYC coexpression was effective in depleting pyruvate accumulation and increasing the production of metabolites.
Using plant EST collections, we obtained 1392 potential gene duplicates across 8 plant species: Zea mays, Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor, Hordeum vulgare, Solanum tuberosum, Lycopersicon esculentum, Medicago truncatula, and Glycine max. We estimated the synonymous and nonsynonymous distances between each gene pair and identified two to three mixtures of normal distributions corresponding to one to three rounds of genome duplication in each species. Within the Poaceae, we found a conserved duplication event among all four species that occurred approximately 50-60 million years ago (Mya); an event that probably occurred before the major radiation of the grasses. In the Solanaceae, we found evidence for a conserved duplication event approximately 50-52 Mya. A duplication in soybean occurred approximately 44 Mya and a duplication in Medicago about 58 Mya. Comparing synonymous and nonsynonymous distances allowed us to determine that most duplicate gene pairs are under purifying, negative selection. We calculated Pearson's correlation coefficients to provide us with a measure of how gene expression patterns have changed between duplicate pairs, and compared this across evolutionary distances. This analysis showed that some duplicates seemed to retain expression patterns between pairs, whereas others showed uncorrelated expression.
Sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] roots exude a potent bioherbicide known as sorgoleone, which is produced in living root hairs and is phytotoxic to broadleaf and grass weeds at concentrations as low as 10 microM. Differential gene expression was studied in sorghum (S. bicolorxS. sudanense) cv. SX17 between roots with abundant root hairs and those without root hairs using a modified differential display approach. A differentially expressed gene, named SOR1, was cloned by using Rapid Amplification of the 5' ends of cDNA (5'-RACE). Real-time PCR analysis of multiple tissues of sorghum SX17 revealed that the SOR1 transcript level in root hairs was more than 1000 times higher than that of other tissues evaluated, including immature leaf, mature leaf, mature stem, panicle, and roots with hairs removed. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR revealed that SOR1 was expressed in the sorgoleone-producing roots of sorghum SX17, shattercane [S. bicolor (L.) Moench], and johnsongrass [S. halepense (L.) Pers.], but not in the shoots of sorghum or in the roots of sweet corn (Zea mays L.) 'Summer Flavor 64Y', in which sorgoleone production was not detected by HPLC analysis. Similarity searches indicated that SOR1 probably encodes a novel desaturase, which might be involved in the formation of a unique and specific double bonding pattern within the long hydrocarbon tail of sorgoleone.
We have cloned and characterized the phytochrome C ( PHYC) gene from Stellaria longipes. The PHYC gene is composed of a 110-bp 5'-untranslated leader sequence, a 3,342-bp coding region, and a 351-bp 3'-untranslated sequence. The Stellaria PHYC contains three long introns within the coding region at conserved locations as in most angiosperm PHY genes. DNA blot analysis indicates that the Stellaria genome contains a single copy of PHYC. Stellaria PHYC shares 60%, 58%, and 57% deduced amino acid identities with rice, Sorghum, and Arabidopsis PHYC, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that Stellaria PHYC is located in the dicot branch, but is divergent from Arabidopsis PHYC. The Stellaria PHYC is constitutively expressed in different plant organs, though the level of PHYC gene transcript in roots is slightly higher than in flowers, leaves, and stems. When 2-week old seedlings grown in the dark were exposed to constant white light, PHYC mRNA quickly accumulates within 1-12 h. When plants grown in darkness for 7 days were exposed to different red/far-red light (R/FR) ratios, the levels of PHYC mRNA at R/FR = 0.7 are much lower than under R/FR = 3.5. The levels of PHYC mRNA under short-day (SD) photoperiod are higher than under long-day (LD) photoperiod. Plants under SD conditions do not elongate, and are only about 1.7 cm tall at 19 days. In contrast, plants under LD conditions elongate with an average height of 21.2 cm at 19 days. The plants do not flower under SD conditions, but do so at 18-19 days under LD conditions. These results indicate that under SD conditions the high level of PHYC mRNA may inhibit stem elongation and flower initiation. In contrast, under LD conditions the high level of PHYC mRNA may promote stem elongation and flowering.
Infiltration of different maize lines with a variety of bacterial pathogens of maize, rice and sorghum identified qualitative differences in resistant reactions. Isolates from two bacterial species induced rapid hypersensitive reactions (HR) in some maize lines, but not others. All isolates of the non-host pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (bacterial leaf streak disease of rice) and some isolates of the pathogenic bacterium Burkholderia andropogonis induced HR when infiltrated into maize line B73, but not Mo17. Genetic control of the HR to both bacteria segregated as a single dominant gene. Surprisingly, both phenotypes mapped to the same locus, indicating they are either tightly linked or controlled by the same gene. The locus maps on the short arm of maize chromosome six near several other disease-resistance genes. Results indicate the same type of genes may contribute to both non-host resistance and resistance to pathogens.
In recent years, access to complete genomic sequences, coupled with rapidly accumulating data related to RNA and protein expression patterns, has made it possible to determine comprehensively how genes contribute to complex phenotypes. However, for major crop plants, publicly available, standard platforms for parallel expression analysis have been limited. We report the conception and design of the new publicly available, 22K Barley1 GeneChip probe array, a model for plants without a fully sequenced genome. Array content was derived from worldwide contribution of 350,000 high-quality ESTs from 84 cDNA libraries, in addition to 1,145 barley (Hordeum vulgare) gene sequences from the National Center for Biotechnology Information nonredundant database. Conserved sequences expressed in seedlings of wheat (Triticum aestivum), oat (Avena strigosa), rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), and maize (Zea mays) were identified that will be valuable in the design of arrays across grasses. To enhance the usability of the data, BarleyBase, a MIAME-compliant, MySQL relational database, serves as a public repository for raw and normalized expression data from the Barley1 GeneChip probe array. Interconnecting links with PlantGDB and Gramene allow BarleyBase users to perform gene predictions using the 21,439 non-redundant Barley1 exemplar sequences or cross-species comparison at the genome level, respectively. We expect that this first generation array will accelerate hypothesis generation and gene discovery in disease defense pathways, responses to abiotic stresses, development, and evolutionary diversity in monocot plants.
C4 plants, including maize, Flaveria, amaranth, sorghum, and an amphibious sedge Eleocharis vivipara, have been employed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms and signaling pathways that control C4 photosynthesis gene expression. Current evidence suggests that pre-existing genes were recruited for the C4 pathway after acquiring potent and surprisingly diverse regulatory elements. This review emphasizes recent advances in our understanding of the creation of C4 genes, the activities of the C4 gene promoters consisting of synergistic and combinatorial enhancers and silencers, the use of 5' and 3' untranslated regions for transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulations, and the function of novel transcription factors. The research has also revealed new insights into unique or universal mechanisms underlying cell-type specificity, coordinate nuclear-chloroplast actions, hormonal, metabolic, stress and light responses, and the control of enzymatic activities by phosphorylation and reductive processes.
The photoreceptor phytochromes, encoded by a small gene family, are responsible for controlling the expression of a number of light-responsive genes and photomorphogenic events, including agronomically important phenotypes such as flowering time and shade-avoidance behavior. The understanding and control of flowering time are particularly important goals in sorghum cultivar development for diverse environments, and naturally occurring variation in the phytochrome genes might prove useful in breeding programs. Also of interest is whether variation observed at the phytochrome loci in domesticated sorghum, or in particular races, is a result of human selection. Population genetic studies can reveal evidence of such selection in patterns of polymorphism and divergence. In this study we report a population genetic analysis of the PHY gene family in Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench in a diverse panel including both cultivated and wild accessions. We show that the level of nucleotide variation in all gene family members is about half the average for this species, consistent with purifying selection acting on these loci. However, the rate of amino acid substitution is accelerated at PHYC compared to the other two loci. In comparisons to a closely related sorghum species, PHYC shows a pattern of intermediate frequency amino acid changes that differ from the patterns observed in comparisons across longer evolutionary distances. There is also a departure from expected patterns of polymorphism and divergence at synonymous sites in PHYC, although the data do not fit a simple model of directional or diversifying selection. Cultivated sorghum has a level of variation similar to that of wild relatives (ssp. verticilliflorum), but many polymorphisms are subspecies-specific, including several amino acid variants.
Reverse transcriptase sequences from both major classes of retrotransposons were amplified from sorghum genomic DNA, leaf mRNA and callus protoplast mRNA. Sequence analysis of clones derived from genomic DNA demonstrated the presence of a wide variety of copia-like and gypsy-like elements. Twenty-four families of copia-like elements were found, of which at least thirteen were expressed in callus protoplasts. Two families (containing forty-eight subfamilies) of gypsy-like elements were discovered, both closely related to Huck of maize. At least twenty-seven of these subfamilies were expressed in callus protoplasts. Most of these elements were expressed at high levels in protoplasts derived from embryogenic callus, but expression of only a few was detected (at low levels) in leaves. Sequence divergence within individual families was quite high, and all relatedness profiles were consistent with vertical transmission of these elements. These data indicate that sorghum contains a large number and diversity of retrotransposons, and that some may be useful as transposon tagging systems in callus protoplasts.
When attacked by a phloem-feeding greenbug aphid (Schizaphis graminum), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) activates jasmonic acid (JA)- and salicylic acid (SA)-regulated genes, as well as genes outside known wounding and SA signaling pathways. A collection of 672 cDNAs was obtained by differential subtraction with cDNAs prepared from sorghum seedlings infested by greenbug aphids and those from uninfested seedlings. Subsequent expression profiling using DNA microarray and northern-blot analyses identified 82 transcript types from this collection responsive to greenbug feeding, methyl jasmonate (MeJA), or SA application. DNA sequencing analyses indicated that these encoded proteins functioning in direct defense, defense signaling, oxidative burst, secondary metabolism, abiotic stress, cell maintenance, and photosynthesis, as well as proteins of unknown function. In response to insect feeding, sorghum increased transcript abundance of numerous defense genes, with some SA-dependent pathogenesis-related genes responding to greenbug more strongly than to SA. In contrast, only weak induction of MeJA-regulated defense genes was observed after greenbug treatment. However, infestation tests confirmed that JA-regulated pathways were effective in plant defense against greenbugs. Activation of certain transcripts exclusively by greenbug infestation was observed, and may represent unique signal transduction events independent of JA- and SA-regulated pathways. Results indicate that plants coordinately regulate defense gene expression when attacked by phloem-feeding aphids, but also suggest that aphids are able to avoid triggering activation of some otherwise potentially effective plant defensive machinery, possibly through their particular mode of feeding.
A genomic clone for starch branching enzyme (SBE) IIb was isolated from a sorghum bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library. The promoter and 5' flanking sequence, the first four exons and introns as well as the last exon and the 3' untranslated region were sequenced. The tentative transcription start site of sorghum sbeIIb was mapped based on alignment with the maize sbeIIb gene. The exon-intron structure of the 5' portion of sorghum sbeIIb was similar to that of maize sbeIIb but differed from that of barley sbeIIb. Specifically, the intronic BbI element involved in the endosperm specific expression of barley sbeIIb was lacking in the sorghum gene. A cDNA clone for sorghum sbeIIb was reverse PCR amplified and found to encode an 803 amino acids long protein. The amino acid sequence of sorghum SBEIIb was compared to that of sorghum SBEI and corresponding enzymes in barley. The overall identity in amino acid sequence was 54% in the central portion of the enzymes. A major difference between the SBEII and SBEI isoforms was a 67 amino acids-long C-terminal extension in the SBEIs. The spatial and temporal expression patterns of sorghum sbeIIb was determined and compared with those of the sorghum gene for SBEI and the barley genes for SBEIIB and SBEI. All four genes exhibited a seed specific expression. However, while barley sbeIIb and sbeI transcripts were detected exclusively in the endosperm, the sorghum genes were expressed also in the embryo. The activity of sorghum sbeIIb and sbeI exhibited a late onset, with a peak of transcription at around 22 days after pollination. This is similar to the pattern of barley sbeI but different from that of barley sbeIIb, which showed a peak of transcription at 12 days after pollination.
The role of GAs in promoting seed germination is well known and experiments with seeds from different species have suggested the requirement of de novo synthesis of GAs upon imbibition for germination. There are also strong indications that the enhancement of GA synthesis is part of the mechanism through which environmental signals (i.e. light) induce germination. Since along the GA biosynthetic pathway, oxidation at C-20 carried out by GA 20-oxidases is thought to be a site of regulation, a cDNA clone encoding a GA 20-oxidase was isolated from embryos of sorghum (SbGA 20ox). Expression analysis of this gene in embryos within imbibed caryopses with low dormancy showed detectable amounts of the specific mRNA early upon incubation, increasing thereafter. In contrast, it remained barely detectable in embryos from dormant caryopses. Changes in endogenous GA4 levels were in agreement with those of SbGA 20ox mRNA, suggesting that GA production might be regulated differentially at the level of transcription of this gene. The expression of SbGA 20ox was enhanced in incubated embryos isolated from either type of caryopses, illustrating a physiological control exerted by the surrounding seed tissues on gene expression. The results also show that ABA leads to a suppression of transcription of this gene.
Maize lines differing in the frequency of reversion of the opaque2 (o2) mutable alleles controlled by the system of Bg-rbg transportable elements were studied. In the presence of the Bg regulatory element, these alleles can revert to normal. When reversion occurs prior to the first division of the primary endosperm nucleus, either phenotypically normal kernels or whole endosperm revertants (WER) develop. Low frequency of whole endosperm revertant formation may be produced by different genetic mechanisms. The frequency of WER formation was shown to nonlinearly depend on the dose of the Bg-hf regulatory element. A dose increase from two to three failed to cause an essential increase in the number of revertants. The regulatory elements Bg-lf and Bg-hf differed in ability to induce excision of the receptor element at the same dose. The frequency of reversion of the receptive alleles was shown to be regulated by epigenetic mechanisms so that high frequency of reversion of receptive alleles requires preliminary premeiotic association between the regulatory and receptor elements. The inheritance of the maize alleles o2-hf and o2-lf proved to be similar to that an3 mutable alleles in petunia.
Genomic regions of nearly every species diverged into different haplotypes, mostly based on point mutations, small deletions, and insertions that do not affect the collinearity of genes within a species. However, the same genomic interval containing the z1C gene cluster of two inbred lines of Zea mays significantly lost their gene collinearity and also differed in the regulation of each remaining gene set. Furthermore, when inbreds were reciprocally crossed, hybrids exhibited an unexpected shift of expression patterns so that "overdominance" instead of "dominance complementation" of allelic and nonallelic gene expression occurred. The same interval also differed in length (360 vs. 263 kb). Segmental rearrangements led to sequence changes, which were further enhanced by the insertion of different transposable elements. Changes in gene order affected not only z1C genes but also three unrelated genes. However, the orthologous interval between two subspecies of rice (not rice cultivars) was conserved in length and gene order, whereas changes between two maize inbreds were as drastic as changes between maize and sorghum. Given that chromosomes could conceivably consist of intervals of haplotypes that are highly diverged, one could envision endless breeding opportunities because of their linear arrangement along a chromosome and their expression potential in hybrid combinations ("binary" systems). The implication of such a hypothesis for heterosis is discussed.
Recent research of the Agricultural Research Service of USDA on the use of natural products to manage pests is summarized. Studies of the use of both phytochemicals and diatomaceous earth to manage insect pests are discussed. Chemically characterized compounds, such as a saponin from pepper (Capsicum frutescens L), benzaldehyde, chitosan and 2-deoxy-D-glucose are being studied as natural fungicides. Resin glycosides for pathogen resistance in sweet potato and residues of semi-tropical leguminous plants for nematode control are also under investigation. Bioassay-guided isolation of compounds with potential use as herbicides or herbicide leads is underway at several locations. New natural phytotoxin molecular target sites (asparagine synthetase and fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase) have been discovered. Weed control in sweet potato and rice by allelopathy is under investigation. Molecular approaches to enhance allelopathy in sorghum are also being undertaken. The genes for polyketide synthases involved in production of pesticidal polyketide compounds in fungi are found to provide clues for pesticide discovery. Gene expression profiles in response to fungicides and herbicides are being generated as tools to understand more fully the mode of action and to rapidly determine the molecular target site of new, natural fungicides and herbicides.
Abstract The interactions between maize, sorghum, wheat and rice plants and Herbaspirillum seropedicae were examined microscopically following inoculation with the H. seropedicae LR15 strain, a Nif(+) (Pnif::gusA) mutant obtained by the insertion of a gusA-kanamycin cassette into the nifH gene of the H. seropedicae wild-type strain. The expression of the Pnif::gusA fusion was followed during the association of the diazotroph with the gramineous species. Histochemical analysis of seedlings of maize, sorghum, wheat and rice grown in vermiculite showed that strain LR15 colonized root surfaces and inner tissues. In early steps of the endophytic association, H. seropedicae colonized root exudation sites, such as axils of secondary roots and intercellular spaces of the root cortex; it then occupied the vascular tissue and there expressed nif genes. The expression of nif genes occurred in roots, stems and leaves as detected by the GUS reporter system. The expression of nif genes was also observed in bacterial colonies located in the external mucilaginous root material, 8 days after inoculation. Moreover, the colonization of plant tissue by H. seropedicae did not depend on the nitrogen-fixing ability, since similar numbers of cells were isolated from roots or shoots of the plants inoculated with Nif(+) or Nif(-) strains.
The brown midrib (bmr) mutants of sorghum have brown vascular tissue in the leaves and stem as a result of changes in lignin composition. The bmr mutants were generated via chemical mutagenesis with diethyl sulfate (DES) and resemble the brown midrib (bm) mutants of maize. The maize and sorghum brown midrib mutants are of particular value for the comparison of lignin biosynthesis across different, yet evolutionarily related, species. Although the sorghum brown midrib mutants were first described in 1978, none of the Brown midrib genes have been cloned. We have used a candidate-gene approach to clone the first Brown midrib gene from sorghum. Based on chemical analyses of the allelic mutants bmr12, bmr18 and bmr26, we hypothesized that these mutants had reduced activity of the lignin biosynthetic enzyme caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT). After a northern analysis revealed strongly reduced expression of the COMT gene, the gene was cloned from the mutants and the corresponding wild types using PCR. In all three mutants, point mutations resulting in premature stop codons were identified: bmr12, bmr18 and bmr26 are therefore mutant alleles of the gene encoding COMT. RT-PCR indicated that all three mutants express the mutant allele, but at much lower levels relative to the wild-type controls. Molecular markers were developed for each of the three mutant alleles to facilitate the use of these mutant alleles in genetic studies and breeding programs.
Winter wheats require several weeks at low temperature to flower. This process, vernalization, is controlled mainly by the VRN1 gene. Using 6,190 gametes, we found VRN1 to be completely linked to MADS-box genes AP1 and AGLG1 in a 0.03-centimorgan interval flanked by genes Cysteine and Cytochrome B5. No additional genes were found between the last two genes in the 324-kb Triticum monococcum sequence or in the colinear regions in rice and sorghum. Wheat AP1 and AGLG1 genes were similar to Arabidopsis meristem identity genes AP1 and AGL2, respectively. AP1 transcription was regulated by vernalization in both apices and leaves, and the progressive increase of AP1 transcription was consistent with the progressive effect of vernalization on flowering time. Vernalization was required for AP1 transcription in apices and leaves in winter wheat but not in spring wheat. AGLG1 transcripts were detected during spike differentiation but not in vernalized apices or leaves, suggesting that AP1 acts upstream of AGLG1. No differences were detected between genotypes with different VRN1 alleles in the AP1 and AGLG1 coding regions, but three independent deletions were found in the promoter region of AP1. These results suggest that AP1 is a better candidate for VRN1 than AGLG1. The epistatic interactions between vernalization genes VRN1 and VRN2 suggested a model in which VRN2 would repress directly or indirectly the expression of AP1. A mutation in the promoter region of AP1 would result in the lack of recognition of the repressor and in a dominant spring growth habit.
The plant vp1 gene encodes a transcription factor originally identified in maize that participates in the control of the transition from embryogenesis to seed germination. Different lines of evidence suggest that vp1 participates in preharvest sprouting (PHS) resistance in cereals, but the genetic relationship is not yet established. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate if there is a connection between vp1 and the formerly documented quantitative trait loci for PHS in Sorghum bicolor. This gene was mapped in sorghum using two well-studied inbred lines displaying contrasting PHS phenotypes. Linkage analysis revealed that the S. bicolor vp1 (Sbvp1) locus is linked to markers located on chromosomes 3 and 8 in maize. Analysis indicated that this gene is not correlated with PHS at a statistically significant level. Structural analysis of the Sbvp1 gene from both inbred lines showed a high degree of overall conservation (low polymorphism), even in the promoter region. These findings, taken together with the previously observed correlation between the pattern of expression of this gene and PHS performance, suggest that Sbvp1 might act downstream in the signalling pathway that leads to seed germination, or even be differentially regulated as a consequence rather than as a cause of the phenotypic behaviour.
In vitro transcripts of full-length cDNA clones of the Johnsongrass strain of Johnsongrass mosaic potyvirus (JGMV-Jg) were infectious on maize and sorghum when inoculated by mechanical or by biolistic bombardment. Two of the cDNA clones with spontaneous mutations in the coat protein were not infectious. Sequence differences between infectious and non-infectious transcripts revealed that alteration of inferred amino sequences, near or in the N-terminus of the coat protein, profoundly affected the infectivity of transcripts. Transcripts of chimeric full-length cDNA of JGMV-Jg, containing coat protein sequences from the Krish-infecting strain of JGMV, were infectious in Krish resistant sorghums.
Two maize genes with predicted translational similarity to the Arabidopsis FIE (Fertilization-Independent Endosperm) protein, a repressor of endosperm development in the absence of fertilization, were cloned and analyzed. Genomic sequences of fie1 and fie2 show significant homology within coding regions but none within introns or 5' upstream. The fie1 gene is expressed exclusively in the endosperm of developing kernels starting at approximately 6 days after pollination. fie1 is an imprinted gene showing no detectable expression of the paternally derived fie1 allele during kernel development. Conversely, fie2 is expressed in the embryo sac before pollination. After pollination, its expression persists, predominantly in the embryo and at lower levels in the endosperm. The paternal fie2 allele is not expressed early in kernel development, but its transcription is activated at 5 days after pollination. fie2 is likely to be a functional ortholog of the Arabidopsis FIE gene, whereas fie1 has evolved a distinct function. The maize FIE2 and sorghum FIE proteins form a monophyletic group, sharing a closer relationship to each other than to the FIE1 protein, suggesting that maize fie genes originated from two different ancestral genomes.
Early and reliable detection of plant transformation events is essential for establishing efficient transformation protocols. We have compared the effectiveness of using the gene encoding a green fluorescent protein (GFP) and a beta-glucuronidase (gus) as reporter genes for early detection of transgene expression in explants subjected to biolistic bombardment and Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The results indicate that gfp gene is superior to gus gene in following transgene expression in transiently transformed materials in both methods of transformation. Using GFP as the screenable marker, we have optimized sorghum transformation with respect to the conditions for transformation, type of explants, promoters, and inbreds. These optimized conditions have been used to obtain stably transformed explants for subsequent regeneration.
Human herpesvirus-8 (HHV-8) is etiologically associated with Kaposi's sarcoma (KS), body cavity-based lymphoma (BCBL), and multicentric Castleman's disease (MCD). These HHV-8-associated diseases arise predominantly in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) patients. Human interleukin-6 (huIL-6) elevated in the serum of AIDS patients is suggested to stimulate the growth of KS and BCBL and to augment the symptoms of MCD. To determine whether huIL-6 stimulates HHV-8 replication directly, expression of the HHV-8 ORF-50 immediate-early gene (transcription activator) and ORF-26 late lytic gene (a capsid protein) was assessed in a BCBL-1 cell line stimulated by huIL-6 by means of real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. huIL-6 induced both ORF-50 and ORF-26 expression, and the maximal ORF-50 expression appeared earlier than that of ORF-26. The data indicate that huIL-6 reactivates HHV-8 in BCBL-1 cells through inducing ORF-50. We also confirmed the previously reported activities of HHV-8-encoded huIL-6 homologue (viral interleukin-6 [vIL-6]) on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) replication in U1 cell line and huIL-6 production by MT-4 T cells, and utilizing monoclonal antibodies to the huIL-6 receptor components, we elucidated that gp130 is the signaling molecule necessary for these vIL-6 activities. These data suggest the possible existence of interaction between HIV and HHV-8 via IL-6, and that the blockade of IL-6 signal by anti-IL-6R antibody or anti-gp130 antibody can constitute a strategy to treat HIV/HHV-8 dually infected patients.
Glycine-rich RNA-binding proteins play an important role in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression, including RNA processing, and are known to be up-regulated in response to a number of external stimuli. However, their regulation in response to salinity stress has not been reported. We have isolated a light- and salt-regulated, full-length cDNA clone encoding a putative glycine-rich protein containing conserved ribonucleoprotein motif from Sorghum bicolor designated as sbGR-RNP. Sequence analysis of the 701bp insert revealed that the open reading frame of 513bp encodes a 170 amino acid protein, with an apparent molecular mass of 16.68kDa and calculated pI of 6.59. The deduced amino acid sequence also revealed that protein is hydrophilic in nature and contains 38% glycine residues. Northern blot analysis revealed a transcript size of 630 nucleotides, which shows regulation by blue and red light. The transcript is initially up- and down-regulated rapidly within 5min of irradiation with blue and red light, respectively. This kind of rapid and opposite regulation by different light wavelengths could be a novel behavior of this photo-regulated gene. Furthermore, NaCl (500mM) and abscisic acid (10 microM) also stimulated the transcript levels of sbGR-RNP to fourfold and sevenfold, respectively. These novel regulations of sbGR-RNP in response to light and salinity are important phenomena, which will be helpful in understanding the molecular mechanisms of cross-talk between abiotic stress and light signaling in plants.
This review examines the current understanding of the structural, functional and regulatory properties of C4 and C3 forms of higher plant phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase. The emphasis is on the interactive metabolic and post-translational controls acting on the enzyme in the physiological context of C4 photosynthesis and the anaplerotic pathway. A brief overview is given concerning the recent developments of PEPC-based genetic engineering of C3 plants with the aim of improving photosynthetic performance in normal and limiting environmental conditions. So far, in spite of achieving a considerable increase in PEPC levels, more work needs to be done with respect to the correct dosage and location before that goal is reached. Some unpublished results on the transformation of maize with a sorghum C4 PEPC cDNA are also presented. They show that it is possible to increase photosynthetic PEPC levels in this C4 plant and that the modification in enzyme content has a pleiotropic physiological impact and, notably, an improved water use efficiency when water is limited.
The content of the cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) varies depending on plant age and growth conditions. The cyanide potential is highest shortly after onset of germination. At this stage, nitrogen application has no effect on dhurrin content, whereas in older plants, nitrogen application induces an increase. At all stages, the content of dhurrin correlates well with the activity of the two biosynthetic enzymes, CYP79A1 and CYP71E1, and with the protein and mRNA level for the two enzymes. During development, the activity of CYP79A1 is lower than the activity of CYP71E1, suggesting that CYP79A1 catalyzes the rate-limiting step in dhurrin synthesis as has previously been shown using etiolated seedlings. The site of dhurrin synthesis shifts from leaves to stem during plant development. In combination, the results demonstrate that dhurrin content in sorghum is largely determined by transcriptional regulation of the biosynthetic enzymes CYP79A1 and CYP71E1.
Cot-based sequence discovery represents a powerful means by which both low-copy and repetitive sequences can be selectively and efficiently fractionated, cloned, and characterized. Based upon the results of a Cot analysis, hydroxyapatite chromatography was used to fractionate sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) genomic DNA into highly repetitive (HR), moderately repetitive (MR), and single/low-copy (SL) sequence components that were consequently cloned to produce HRCot, MRCot, and SLCot genomic libraries. Filter hybridization (blotting) and sequence analysis both show that the HRCot library is enriched in sequences traditionally found in high-copy number (e.g., retroelements, rDNA, centromeric repeats), the SLCot library is enriched in low-copy sequences (e.g., genes and "nonrepetitive ESTs"), and the MRCot library contains sequences of moderate redundancy. The Cot analysis suggests that the sorghum genome is approximately 700 Mb (in agreement with previous estimates) and that HR, MR, and SL components comprise 15%, 41%, and 24% of sorghum DNA, respectively. Unlike previously described techniques to sequence the low-copy components of genomes, sequencing of Cot components is independent of expression and methylation patterns that vary widely among DNA elements, developmental stages, and taxa. High-throughput sequencing of Cot clones may be a means of "capturing" the sequence complexity of eukaryotic genomes at unprecedented efficiency.
The process of photorespiration diminishes the efficiency of CO(2) assimilation and yield of C(3)-crops such as wheat, rice, soybean or potato, which are important for feeding the growing world population. Photorespiration starts with the competitive inhibition of CO(2) fixation by O(2) at the active site of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) and can result in a loss of up to 50% of the CO(2) fixed in ambient air. By contrast, C(4) plants, such as maize, sugar cane and Sorghum, possess a CO(2) concentrating mechanism, by which atmospheric CO(2) is bound to C(4)-carbon compounds and shuttled from the mesophyll cells where the prefixation of bicarbonate occurs via phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) into the gas-tight bundle-sheath cells, where the bound carbon is released again as CO(2) and enters the Calvin cycle. However, the anatomical division into mesophyll and bundle-sheaths cells ("Kranz"-anatomy) appears not to be a prerequisite for the operation of a CO(2) concentrating mechanism. Submerged aquatic macrophytes, for instance, can induce a C(4)-like CO(2) concentrating mechanism in only one cell type when CO(2) becomes limiting. A single cell C(4)-mechanism has also been reported recently for a terrestrial chenopod. For over 10 years researchers in laboratories around the world have attempted to improve photosynthesis and crop yield by introducing a single cell C(4)-cycle in C(3) plants by a transgenic approach. In the meantime, there has been substantial progress in overexpressing the key enzymes of the C(4) cycle in rice, potato, and tobacco. In this review there will be a focus on biochemical and physiological consequences of the overexpression of C(4)-cycle genes in C(3) plants. Bearing in mind that C(4)-cycle enzymes are also present in C(3) plants, the pitfalls encountered when C(3) metabolism is perturbed by the overexpression of individual C(4) genes will also be discussed.
Two putative promoters from Australian banana streak badnavirus (BSV) isolates were analysed for activity in different plant species. In transient expression systems the My (2105 bp) and Cv (1322 bp) fragments were both shown to have promoter activity in a wide range of plant species including monocots (maize, barley, banana, millet, wheat, sorghum), dicots (tobacco, canola, sunflower, Nicotiana benthamiana, tipu tree), gymnosperm (Pinus radiata) and fern (Nephrolepis cordifolia). Evaluation of the My and Cv promoters in transgenic sugarcane, banana and tobacco plants demonstrated that these promoters could drive high-level expression of either the green fluorescent protein (GFP) or the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene (uidA) in vegetative plant cells. In transgenic sugarcane plants harbouring the Cv promoter, GFP expression levels were comparable or higher (up to 1.06% of total soluble leaf protein as GFP) than those of plants containing the maize ubiquitin promoter (up to 0.34% of total soluble leaf protein). GUS activities in transgenic in vitro-grown banana plants containing the My promoter were up to seven-fold stronger in leaf tissue and up to four-fold stronger in root and corm tissue than in plants harbouring the maize ubiquitin promoter. The Cv promoter showed activities that were similar to the maize ubiquitin promoter in in vitro-grown banana plants, but was significantly reduced in larger glasshouse-grown plants. In transgenic in vitro-grown tobacco plants, the My promoter reached activities close to those of the 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV), while the Cv promoter was about half as active as the CaMV 35S promoter. The BSV promoters for pregenomic RNA represent useful tools for the high-level expression of foreign genes in transgenic monocots.
A novel rice (Oryza sativa L.) gene, homologous to a sorghum pathogenesis-related class 10 protein gene, was cloned from a cDNA library prepared from 2-week-old jasmonic acid-treated rice seedling leaves, and named as JIOsPR10 (jasmonate inducible). JIOsPR10 encoded a 160-amino-acid polypeptide with a predicted molecular mass of 17,173.23 Da and a pI of 5.84. JIOsPR10 was highly similar (77%) to the sorghum PR10 protein, but showed less than 55% similarity with other identified PR10s at the amino acid level. Genomic Southern analyses indicated the presence of related genes in the rice genome. The JIOsPR10 transcript was not detected in the healthy leaves, and was not induced after cut. Further expression analysis revealed that the signaling components of defense/stress pathways, jasmonate, salicylate, and H(2)O(2) significantly up-regulated the JIOsPR10 mRNA over the cut control, whereas two other stress regulators, ethylene and abscisic acid, failed to induce its expression. Interestingly the protein phosphatase (PP) inhibitors, cantharidin, endothall, and okadaic acid, rapidly and potently up-regulated the JIOsPR10 expression, suggesting involvement of the phosphorylation/dephosphorylation events. Additionally, the inducible expression of the JIOsPR10 gene was influenced by light signal(s). Finally, the blast pathogen (Magnaporthe grisea) also specifically elicited the accumulation of JIOsPR10 mRNA in leaves. Induction of the JIOsPR10 gene expression by signaling molecules, PP inhibitors and pathogen attack, strongly indicate a role for this novel gene in rice self-defense/stress response(s).
The cytochrome P450 CYP79A1 catalyzes the conversion of L-tyrosine to p-hydroxyphenylacetaldoxime, the first step in the biosynthetic pathway of the cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin in Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench. We have demonstrated that introduction of CYP79A1 into Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. results in the production of the tyrosine-derived glucosinolate p-hydroxybenzylglucosinolate (p-OHBG), not found in wild-type A. thaliana (Bak et al., 1999, Plant J. 20: 663 671). In the present study, glucosinolate profiles and contents in various tissues (roots, leaves, stems, closed flower buds and green siliques) of A. thaliana plants expressing CYP79A1 were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography. The total glucosinolate content in these tissues was increased 3.5- to 4.5-fold in comparison with the level of the control plants. The increase was due solely to the production of p-OHBG, as the composition of the major endogenous aliphatic and indole glucosinolates was not affected. Conversely, in mature seeds the total glucosinolate content of CYP79A1 and control plants was similar, with p-OHBG accounting for ca. 30%. The transcript level of the postoxime enzyme UDP-glucose:thiohydroximate glucosyltransferase in leaves of CYP79A1 plants was increased ca. 50% compared with control plants, indicating that the post-oxime enzymes in the biosynthetic pathway are up-regulated. Western blot analysis and activity measurements showed similar amounts and activities of myrosinase in CYP79A1 and control plants. Thus, the increase in glucosinolate content in CYP79A1 plants was not accompanied by an increase in content or activity of degradation enzyme. The present data demonstrate that the high biosynthetic capacity of the postoxime enzymes combined with a low substrate-specificity of the post-oxime enzymes in A. thaliana provide a highly flexible system for metabolic engineering of glucosinolate profiles, including new (non-endogenous) glucosinolates derived from oximes introduced into the plant, e.g. by transformation with CYP79 homologues.
We previously isolated a pollen-specific gene encoding a pollen tube wall-associated glycoprotein with a globular domain and an extensin domain from maize (mPex1). To evaluate which protein domains might be important for function, we isolated a second monocot gene (mPex2) and a dicot gene (tPex). Each gene encodes a signal sequence, an N-terminal globular domain comprised of a variable region, a leucine-rich repeat (LRR) with an adjacent cysteine-rich region, a transition region and an extensin-like C-terminal domain. The LRRs of the maize and tomato Pex proteins are highly conserved. Although the extensin domains in the maize and tomato proteins vary in length and in amino acid sequence, they are likely to be structurally conserved. Additional putative Pex gene sequences were identified by either GenBank search (Arabidopsis) or PCR (sorghum and potato): all encode conserved LRRs. The presence of a conserved LRR in the known and potential Pex proteins strongly suggests that this motif is involved in the binding of a specific ligand during pollen tube growth. Gene expression studies using RNA and protein blotting as well as promoter-reporter gene fusions in transient and stable transformation indicate that the tomato Pex gene is pollen-specific.
Pre-harvest sprouting (PHS) in sorghum is related to the lack of a normal dormancy level during seed development and maturation. Based on previous evidence that seed dormancy in maize is controlled by the vp1 gene, we used a PCR-based approach to isolate two Sorghum bicolor genomic and cDNA clones from two genotypes exhibiting different PHS behaviour and sensitivity to abscisic acid (ABA). The two 699 amino acid predicted protein sequences differ in two residues at positions 341 (Gly or Cys within the repression domain) and 448 (Pro or Ser) and show over 80, 70 and 60% homology to maize, rice and oat VP1 proteins respectively. Expression analysis of the sorghum vp1 gene in the two lines shows a slightly higher level of vp1 mRNA in the embryos susceptible to PHS than in those resistant to PHS during embryogenesis. However, timing of expression was different between these genotypes during this developmental process. Whereas for the former the main peak of expression was observed at 20 days after pollination (DAP), the peak in the latter was found at later developmental stages when seed maturation was almost complete. Under favourable germination conditions and in the presence of fluridone (an inhibitor of ABA biosynthesis), sorghum vp1 mRNA showed to be consistently correlated with sensitivity to ABA but not with ABA content and dormancy.
A series of endosperm transfer layer-specific transcripts has been identified in maize by differential screening of a cDNA library of transcripts at 10 days after pollination. Sequence comparisons revealed among this class of cDNAs a novel, small gene family of highly diverged sequences encoding basal layer antifungal proteins (BAPs). The bap genes mapped to two loci on chromosomes 4 and 10. So far, bap-homologous sequences have been detected only in maize, teosinte and sorghum, and are not present in grasses outside the Andropogoneae tribe. BAP2 is synthesized as a pre-proprotein, and is processed by successive removal of a signal peptide and a 29-residue prodomain. The proprotein can be detected exclusively in microsomal membrane-containing fractions of kernel extracts. Immunolocalization reveals BAP2 to be predominantly located in the placentochalazal cells of the pedicel, adjacent to the basal endosperm transfer layer (BETL) cells, although the BAP2 transcript is found only in the BETL cells. The biological roles of BAP2 propeptide and mature peptide have been investigated by heterologous expression of the proprotein in Escherichia coli, and by tests of its fungistatic activity and that of the fully processed form in vitro. The mature BAP2 peptide exhibits potent broad-range activity against a range of filamentous fungi, including several plant pathogens.
Agrobacterium tumefaciens was used to genetically transform sorghum. Immature embryos of a public (P898012) and a commercial line (PHI391) of sorghum were used as the target explants. The Agrobacterium strain used was LBA4404 carrying a 'Super-binary' vector with a bar gene as a selectable marker for herbicide resistance in the plant cells. A series of parameter tests was used to establish a baseline for conditions to be used in stable transformation experiments. A number of different transformation conditions were tested and a total of 131 stably transformed events were produced from 6175 embryos in these two sorghum lines. Statistical analysis showed that the source of the embryos had a very significant impact on transformation efficiency, with field-grown embryos producing a higher transformation frequency than greenhouse-grown embryos. Southern blot analysis of DNA from leaf tissues of T0 plants confirmed the integration of the T-DNA into the sorghum genome. Mendelian segregation in the T1 generation was confirmed by herbicide resistance screening. This is the first report of successful use of Agrobacterium for production of stably transformed sorghum plants. The Agrobacterium method we used yields a higher frequency of stable transformation that other methods reported previously.
Although sequences representing members of the phytochrome (phy) family of photoreceptors have been reported in numerous species across the phylogenetic spectrum, relatively few phytochrome genes (PHY) have been fully characterized. Using rice, we have cloned and characterized the first PHYC gene from a monocot. Comparison of genomic and cDNA PHYC sequences shows that the rice PHYC gene contains three introns in the protein-coding region typical of most angiosperm PHY genes, in contrast to Arabidopsis PHYC, which lacks the third intron. Mapping of the transcription start site and 5'-untranslated region of the rice PHYC transcript indicates that it contains an unusually long, intronless, 5'-untranslated leader sequence of 715 bp. PHYC mRNA levels are relatively low compared to PHYA and PHYB mRNAs in rice seedlings, and are similar in dark- and light-treated seedlings, suggesting relatively low constitutive expression. Genomic mapping shows that the PHYA, PHYB, and PHYC genes are all located on chromosome 3 of rice, in synteny with these genes in linkage group C (sometimes referred to as linkage group A) of sorghum. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that rice phyC is closely related to sorghum phyC, but relatively strongly divergent from Arabidopsis phyC, the only full-length dicot phyC sequence available.
Novel cyanogenic plants have been generated by the simultaneous expression of the two multifunctional sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench) cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP79A1 and CYP71E1 in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum cv Xanthi) and Arabidopsis under the regulation of the constitutive 35S promoter. CYP79A1 and CYP71E1 catalyze the conversion of the parent amino acid tyrosine to p-hydroxymandelonitrile, the aglycone of the cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin. CYP79A1 catalyzes the conversion of tyrosine to p-hydroxyphenylacetaldoxime and CYP71E1, the subsequent conversion to p-hydroxymandelonitrile. p-Hydroxymandelonitrile is labile and dissociates into p-hydroxybenzaldehyde and hydrogen cyanide, the same products released from dhurrin upon cell disruption as a result of pest or herbivore attack. In transgenic plants expressing CYP79A1 as well as CYP71E1, the activity of CYP79A1 is higher than that of CYP71E1, resulting in the accumulation of several p-hydroxyphenylacetaldoxime-derived products in the addition to those derived from p-hydroxymandelonitrile. Transgenic tobacco and Arabidopsis plants expressing only CYP79A1 accumulate the same p-hydroxyphenylacetaldoxime-derived products as transgenic plants expressing both sorghum cytochrome P450 enzymes. In addition, the transgenic CYP79A1 Arabidopsis plants accumulate large amounts of p-hydroxybenzylglucosinolate. In transgenic Arabidopsis expressing CYP71E1, this enzyme and the enzymes of the pre-existing glucosinolate pathway compete for the p-hydroxyphenylacetaldoxime as substrate, resulting in the formation of small amounts of p-hydroxybenzylglucosinolate. Cyanogenic glucosides are phytoanticipins, and the present study demonstrates the feasibility of expressing cyanogenic compounds in new plant species by gene transfer technology to improve pest and disease resistance.
Genes responsible for resistance to greenbug (Schizaphis graminum Rond.) were identified in sorghum. The dominant (Sgr1) and recessive (Sgr2) genes for resistance were revealed in sample k-457 (PI264453, United States). The samples i-589430 (PI264453, Spain) and k-3852 (Sarvasi, Hungary) carry gene Sgr1. These accessions are assumed to also have gene Sgr2. The samples k-9921 (Shallu, United States) and k-9922 (KS-30, United States) have incompletely dominant resistance gene Sgr3. A symbol Sgr4 was assigned to the dominant gene from sample k-6694 (Deer, United States). The dominant Sgr5 and recessive Sgr6 genes were revealed in the samples k-1362 (Durra Belaya, Syria) and k-1240 (Dzhugara Belaya, China). The cultivar Sorgogradskoe (k-9436, Rostovskaya oblast) has gene Sgr5. The samples k-10092 (Odesskii 360, Ukraine) and k-5091 (Cherhata, Marocco) are assumed to have genes Sgr5 and Sgr6. Sample k-924 (Dzhugara Belaya, China) is protected by the dominant gene Srg7 and recessive gene Sgr8. Sample k-923 (Dzhugara Belaya, China) has at least one of these genes. Two dominant complementary genes for resistance (Sgr9 and Sgr10) were revealed in sample k-930 (Dzhugara Belaya, China). One of two dominant genes of sample k-1237 (Dzhugara Belaya, China) was assigned the symbol Sgr11. Genes Sgr5-Sgr11 responsible for resistance to greenbug are new and were not previously used in breeding.
A group of frequent cDNA clones from a young-leaf cDNA library was found to code for a homologue of S-ribonucleases (S-RNases) involved in gametophytic incompatibility and the so-called S-like RNases active in flowers and in vegetative tissues. The derived amino acid sequence starts with a signal peptide and has a 27-amino-acid C-terminal extension of unknown function. The barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) gene, rsh1 (for RNase S-like homologue) corresponding to the cDNA clones was isolated. The gene has three introns and the position of one intron corresponds to the site of the single, small intron in the S-RNase genes. The deduced amino acid sequence of mature RSH1 shares 35% identical and 58% similar amino acid residues with an S-like RNase from tomato, RNase LE. However, two active-site histidine residues, conserved between all S and S-like RNases are replaced by serine residues in RSH1. The new barley RNase S-like homologue is clearly related to the family of active RNases but is probably not active as an RNase. Sequences from the same class of presumably inactive RNases have been recorded in maize, rice and sorghum. The barley gene is exclusively expressed in young leaf tissue and is substantially induced by light.
Although a gene's location can greatly influence its expression, genome sequencing has shown that orthologous genes may exist in very different environments in the genomes of closely related species. Four genes in the maize alcohol dehydrogenase (adh1) region represent solitary genes dispersed among large repetitive blocks, whereas the orthologous genes in sorghum are located in a different setting surrounded by low-copy-number DNAs. A specific class of DNA sequences, matrix attachment regions (MARs), was found to be in comparable positions in the two species, often flanking individual genes. If these MARs define structural domains, then the orthologous genes in maize and sorghum should experience similar chromatin environments. In addition, MARs were divided into two groups, based on the competitive affinity of their association with the matrix. The "durable" MARs retained matrix associations at the highest concentrations of competitor DNA. Most of the durable MARs mapped outside genes, defining the borders of putative chromatin loops. The "unstable" MARs lost their association with the matrix under similar competitor conditions and mapped mainly within introns. These results suggest that MARs possess both domain-defining and regulatory roles. Miniature inverted repeat transposable elements (MITEs) often were found on the same fragments as the MARs. Our studies showed that many MITEs can bind to isolated nuclear matrices, suggesting that MITEs may function as MARs in vivo.
Glucosinolates are natural products in cruciferous plants, including Arabidopsis thaliana. CYP79A1 is the cytochrome P450 catalysing the conversion of tyrosine to p-hydroxyphenylacetaldoxime in the biosynthesis of the cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin in sorghum. Both glucosinolates and cyanogenic glucosides have oximes as intermediates. Expression of CYP79A1 in A. thaliana results in the production of high levels of the tyrosine-derived glucosinolate p-hydroxybenzylglucosinolate, which is not a natural constituent of A. thaliana. This provides further evidence that the enzymes have low substrate specificity with respect to the side chain. The ability of the cyanogenic CYP79A1 to integrate itself into the glucosinolate pathway has important implications for an evolutionary relationship between cyanogenic glucosides and glucosinolates, and for the possibility of genetic engineering of novel glucosinolates.
RNA editing and cytoplasmic male sterility are two important phenomena associated with higher plant mitochondria. We recently have shown a potential function of RNA editing in CMS development. The frequency of atp6 RNA editing was specifically reduced in anthers of male-sterile Sorghum bicolor, which increased in frequency in partially restored progeny. Here we present data that show that the loss of RNA editing capability also occurs in a second nuclear background that allows the expression of male sterility. Loss of RNA editing thus appears to be associated with unique combinations of male-sterile cytoplasm and non-restoring nuclear backgrounds. In addition, the reduction of RNA editing affects both gametophytic and sporophytic anther cell-types but not other floral tissues. An analysis of F(2) plants exhibiting different levels of fertility indicates a co-segregation of fertility restoration and atp6 RNA editing. The atp6 transcript abundance is similar in seedlings and anthers of male-sterile, partially restored, and male-fertile lines and thus is not associated with loss of atp6 RNA editing in anthers. A model for RNA editing and male sterility based on the data available is presented. Functional correlations with other CMS systems are also discussed.
To study the metabolic interactions between mesophyll and bundle-sheath cells of C4 plants, protein kinases possibly involved in the regulatory processes and signal transduction pathways have been cloned and characterized. A receptor-like protein kinase (RLK) cDNA clone from the C4 plant Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench has been identified. The deduced protein was designated SbRLK1 for receptor-like protein kinase from S. bicolor. The putative cytoplasmic domain of SbRLK1 contains all amino acids that are characteristic of protein kinases. The extracellular domain contains five leucine-rich repeats. The mRNA of the SbRLK1 gene accumulated to much higher levels in mesophyll cells than in the bundle-sheath and was almost undetectable in roots. This expression pattern indicates that SbRLK1 might be involved in the regulation of specific processes in mesophyll cells.
A 1369 bp DNA fragment (Sc) was isolated from a full-length clone of sugarcane bacilliform badnavirus (ScBV) and was shown to have promoter activity in transient expression assays using monocot (banana, maize, millet and sorghum) and dicot plant species (tobacco, sunflower, canola and Nicotiana benthamiana). This promoter was also tested for stable expression in transgenic banana and tobacco plants. These experiments showed that this promoter could drive high-level expression of the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene in most plant cells. The expression level was comparable to the maize ubiquitin promoter in standardised transient assays in maize. In transgenic banana plants the expression levels were variable for different transgenic lines but was generally comparable with the activities of both the maize ubiquitin promoter and the enhanced cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. The Sc promoter appears to express in a near-constitutive manner in transgenic banana and tobacco plants. The promoter from sugarcane bacilliform virus represents a useful tool for the high-level expression of foreign genes in both monocot and dicot transgenic plants that could be used similarly to the CaMV 35S or maize polyubiquitin promoter.
A sorghum cDNA clone was isolated by differential screening of a cDNA library prepared from mesocotyls (cultivar DK18) inoculated with fungal pathogenes. The deduced translation product shows sequence similarity to a family of intracellular pathogenesis-related proteins (PR-10) with a potential ribonuclease function. We studied the accumulation of PR-10 and chalcone synthase (CHS) transcripts in mesocotyls following inoculation with Cochliobolus heterostrophus or Colletotrichum sublineolum. CHS is involved in phytoalexin synthesis in sorghum. Coordinate expression of PR-10 and CHS genes was localized in the area of inoculation along with the accumulation of phytoalexins. C. heterostrophus is a nonpathogen of sorghum and cytological studies indicated that cultivar DK18 is resistant to C. sublineolum, a sorghum pathogen. We demonstrated that the two fungi triggered different time courses of plant defense reactions. Inoculation with C. heterostrophus resulted in rapid accumulation of PR-10 and CHS transcripts after appressoria had become mature. Accumulation of these transcripts was delayed in plants inoculated with C. sublineolum until penetration of host tissue had been completed and infection vesicles had formed. Results suggest that different recognition events are involved in the expression of resistance to the two fungi used or that C. sublineolum suppresses the nonspecific induction of defense responses.
CYP51s form the only family of P450 proteins conserved in evolution from prokaryotes to fungi, plants and mammals. In all eukaryotes, CYP51s catalyse 14alpha-demethylation of sterols. We have recently isolated two CYP51 cDNAs from sorghum [Bak, S., Kahn, R.A., Olsen, C. E. & Halkier, B.A. (1997) Plant J. 11, 191-201] and wheat [Cabello-Hurtado, F., Zimmerlin, A., Rahier, A., Taton, M., DeRose, R., Nedelkina, S., Batard, Y., Durst, F., Pallett, K.E. & Werck-Reichhart, D. (1997) Biophys. Biochem. Res. Commun. 230, 381-385]. Wheat and sorghum CYP51 proteins show a high identity (92%) compared with their identity with their fungal and mammalian orthologues (32-39%). Data obtained with plant microsomes have previously suggested that differences in primary sequences reflect differences in sterol pathways and CYP51 substrate specificities between animals, fungi and plants. To investigate more thoroughly the properties of the plant CYP51, the wheat enzyme was expressed in yeast strains overexpressing different P450 reductases as a fusion with either yeast or plant (sorghum) membrane targeting sequences. The endogenous sterol demethylase gene (ERG11) was then disrupted. A sorghum-wheat fusion protein expressed with the Arabidopsis thaliana reductase ATR1 showed the highest level of expression and activity. The expression induced a marked proliferation of microsomal membranes so as to obtain 70 nmol P450.(L culture)-1, with CYP51 representing 1.5% of microsomal protein. Without disruption of the ERG11 gene, the expression level was fivefold reduced. CYP51 from wheat complemented the ERG11 disruption, as the modified yeasts did not need supplementation with exogenous ergosterol and grew normally under aerobic conditions. The fusion plant enzyme catalysed 14alpha-demethylation of obtusifoliol very actively (Km,app = 197 microm, kcat = 1.2 min-1) and with very strict substrate specificity. No metabolism of lanosterol and eburicol, the substrates of the fungal and mammalian CYP51s, nor metabolism of herbicides and fatty acids was detected in the recombinant yeast microsomes. Surprisingly lanosterol (Ks = 2.2 microM) and eburicol (Ks = 2.5 microm) were found to bind the active site of the plant enzyme with affinities higher than that for obtusifoliol (Ks = 289 microM), giving typical type-I spectra. The amplitudes of these spectra, however, suggested that lanosterol and eburicol were less favourably positioned to be metabolized than obtusifoliol. The recombinant enzyme was also used to test the relative binding constants of two azole compounds, LAB170250F and gamma-ketotriazole, which were previously reported to be potent inhibitors of the plant enzyme. The Ks of plant CYP51 for LAB170250F (0.29 microM) and gamma-ketotriazole (0.40 microM) calculated from the type-II sp2 nitrogen-binding spectra were in better agreement with their reported effects as plant CYP51 inhibitors than values previously determined with plant microsomes. This optimized expression system thus provides an excellent tool for detailed enzymological and mechanistic studies, and for improving the selectivity of inhibitory molecules.
A cDNA encoding CYP79B1 has been isolated from Sinapis alba. CYP79B1 from S. alba shows 54% sequence identity and 73% similarity to sorghum CYP79A1 and 95% sequence identity to the Arabidopsis T42902, assigned CYP79B2. The high identity and similarity to sorghum CYP79A1, which catalyses the conversion of tyrosine to p-hydroxyphenylacetaldoxime in the biosynthesis of the cyanogenic glucoside dhurrin, suggests that CYP79B1 similarly catalyses the conversion of amino acid(s) to aldoxime(s) in the biosynthesis of glucosinolates. Within the highly conserved 'PERF' and the heme-binding region of A-type cytochromes, the CYP79 family has unique substitutions that define the family-specific consensus sequences of FXP(E/D)RH and SFSTG(K/R)RGC(A/I)A, respectively. Sequence analysis of PCR products generated with CYP79B subfamily-specific primers identified CYP79B homologues in Tropaeolum majus, Carica papaya, Arabidopsis, Brassica napus and S. alba. The five glucosinolate-producing plants identified a CYP79B amino acid consensus sequence KPERHLNECSEVTLTENDLRFISFSTGKRGC. The unique substitutions in the 'PERF' and the heme-binding domain and the high sequence identity and similarity of CYP79B1, CYP79B2 and CYP79A1, together with the isolation of CYP79B homologues in the distantly related Tropaeolaceae, Caricaceae and Brassicaceae within the Capparales order, show that the initial part of the biosynthetic pathway of glucosinolates and cyanogenic glucosides is catalysed by evolutionarily conserved cytochromes P450. This confirms that the appearance of glucosinolates in Capparales is based on a cyanogen 'predisposition'. Identification of CYP79 homologues in glucosinolate-producing plants provides an important tool for tissue-specific regulation of the level of glucosinolates to improve nutritional value and pest resistance.
C4 photosynthesis is functionally dependent on metabolic interactions between mesophyll- and bundle-sheath cells. Although the C4 cycle is biochemically well understood, many aspects of the regulation of enzyme activities, gene expression and cell differentiation are elusive. Protein kinases are likely involved in these regulatory processes, providing links to hormonal, metabolic and developmental signal-transduction pathways. Here we describe the cloning and characterization of 14 different putative protein kinase leaf cDNA clones from the C4 plant Sorghum bicolor. These genes belong to three different protein kinase subfamilies: ribosomal protein S6 kinases, SNF1-like protein kinases, and receptor-like protein kinases. We report the partial cDNA sequences, mesophyll/bundle-sheath steady-state mRNA ratios, mesophyll/etiolated leaf steady-state mRNA ratios, and the positions of 14 protein kinase genes on the genetic map of S. bicolor. Only three of the protein kinase genes described here are expressed preferentially in mesophyll cells as compared with the bundle-sheath.
The crucial enzyme in diacylglycerol-mediated signaling is protein kinase C (PKC). In this paper we provide evidence for the existence and role of PKC in maize. A protein of an apparent molecular mass of 70 kDa was purified. The protein showed kinase activity that was stimulated by phosphatidylserine and oleyl acetyl glycerol (OAG) in the presence of Ca2+. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) replaced the requirement of OAG. [3H]PMA binding to the 70-kDa protein was competed by unlabeled PMA and OAG but not by 4alpha-PMA, an inactive analog. The kinase phosphorylates histone H1 at serine residue(s), and this activity was inhibited by H-7 and staurosporine. These properties suggest that the 70-kDa protein is a conventional serine/threonine protein kinase C (cPKC). Polyclonal antibodies raised against the polypeptide precipitate the enzyme activity and immunostained the protein on Western blots. The antibodies also cross-reacted with a protein of expected size from sorghum, rice, and tobacco. A rapid increase in the protein level was observed in maize following PMA treatments. In order to assign a possible role of PKC in gene regulation, the nitrate reductase transcript level was investigated. The transcript level increased by PMA, not by 4alpha-PMA treatments, and the increase was inhibited by H-7 but not by okadaic acid. The data show the existence and possible function of PKC in higher plants.
Nucleolytic processing of transcripts within mitochondrial orf107, associated with male sterility in sorghum, is regulated by the fertility restoration gene Rf3, conferring 75% cleavage of whole-length transcripts. Two transcript editing sites are 81% and 61% edited in rf3rf3 lines, while these sites are 41% and 10% edited in the remaining whole-length transcripts in an Rf3Rf3 line. RNA editing and processing efficiency in F1 progeny were similar to the Rf3Rf3 parent, and analyses of backcross progeny indicated that all rf3rf3 lines were characterized by high editing efficiency. We postulate that highly edited transcripts within the population are quickly processed in lines carrying Rf3, generating a residual population of poorly edited transcripts. Thus, action of Rf3 may have no direct affect on RNA editing, and may be dependent on a substrate of highly edited transcripts. These data indicate a potentially novel role of RNA editing in gene expression through an influence on the efficiency of transcript processing.
C4 photosynthesis depends upon the strict compartmentalization of the CO2-assimilatory enzymes of the C4 and Calvin cycle in two different cell types, mesophyll and bundle-sheath cells. A differential accumulation is also observed for enzymes of other metabolic pathways, and mesophyll and bundle-sheath chloroplasts of NADP-malic enzyme type C4 plants differ even in their photosynthetic electron transport chains. A large number of studies indicate that this division of labour between mesophyll and bundle-sheath cells is the result of differential gene expression. To investigate the extent of this differential gene expression and thus gain insight into the genetic basis of C4 photosynthesis, genes that are differentially expressed in the mesophyll and bundle-sheath cells were catalogued in the NADP-malic enzyme type C4 grass Sorghum bicolor. A total of 58 cDNAs were isolated by differential screening. Using a tenfold difference in transcript abundance between mesophyll and bundle-sheath cells as a criterion, 25 cDNAs were confirmed to encode mesophyll-specific gene sequences and 8 were found to encode bundle-sheath-specific sequences. Eight mesophyll-specific cDNAs showed no significant similarities within GenBank and may therefore represent candidates for the elucidation of hitherto unknown functions in the differentiation of mesophyll and bundle-sheath cells. The chromosomal location of 50 isolated cDNAs was determined by RFLP mapping using an interspecific sorghum cross.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) has two isozymes of the cyanogenic beta-glucosidase dhurrinase: dhurrinase-1 (Dhr1) and dhurrinase-2 (Dhr2). A nearly full-length cDNA encoding dhurrinase was isolated from 4-d-old etiolated seedlings and sequenced. The cDNA has a 1695-nucleotide-long open reading frame, which codes for a 565-amino acid-long precursor and a 514-amino acid-long mature protein, respectively. Deduced amino acid sequence of the sorghum Dhr showed 70% identity with two maize (Zea mays) beta-glucosidase isozymes. Southern-blot data suggested that beta-glucosidase is encoded by a small multigene family in sorghum. Northern-blot data indicated that the mRNA corresponding to the cloned Dhr cDNA is present at high levels in the node and upper half of the mesocotyl in etiolated seedlings but at low levels in the root-only in the zone of elongation and the tip region. Light-grown seedling parts had lower levels of Dhr mRNA than those of etiolated seedlings. Immunoblot analysis performed using maize-anti-beta-glucosidase sera detected two distinct dhurrinases (57 and 62 kD) in sorghum. The distribution of Dhr activity in different plant parts supports the mRNA and immunoreactive protein data, suggesting that the cloned cDNA corresponds to the Dhr1 (57 kD) isozyme and that the dhr1 gene shows organ-specific expression.
Dichloroacetamide safeners protect maize (Zea mays L.) against injury from chloroacetanilide and thiocarbamate herbicides. Etiolated maize seedlings have a high-affinity cytosolic-binding site for the safener [3H](R,S)-3-dichloroacetyl-2,2,5-trimethyl-1, 3-oxazol-idine ([3H]Saf), and this safener-binding activity (SafBA) is competitively inhibited by the herbicides. The safener-binding protein (SafBP), purified to homogeneity, has a relative molecular weight of 39,000, as shown by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and an isoelectric point of 5.5. Antiserum raised against purified SafBP specifically recognizes a 39-kD protein in etiolated maize and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.), which have SafBA, but not in etiolated wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), oat (Avena sativa L.), barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.), or Arabidopsis, which lack SafBA. SafBP is most abundant in the coleoptile and scarcest in the leaves, consistent with the distribution of SafBA. SBP1, a cDNA encoding SafBP, was cloned using polymerase chain reaction primers based on purified proteolytic peptides. Extracts of Escherichia coli cells expressing SBP1 have strong [3H]Saf binding, which, like binding to the native maize protein, is competitively inhibited by the safener dichlormid and the herbicides S-ethyl dipropylthiocarbamate, alachlor, and metolachlor. SBP1 is predicted to encode a phenolic O-methyltransferase, but SafBP does not O-methylate catechol or caffeic acid. The acquisition of its encoding gene opens experimental approaches for the evaluation of the role of SafBP in response to the relevant safeners and herbicides.
Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench) accumulates the anthocyanin cyanidin 3-dimalonyl glucoside in etiolated mesocotyls in response to light. Inoculation with the nonpathogenic fungus Cochliobolus heterostrophus drastically reduced the light-induced accumulation of anthocyanin by repressing the transcription of the anthocyanin biosynthesis genes encoding flavanone 3-hydroxylase, dihydroflavonol 4-reductase, and anthocyanidin synthase. In contrast to these repression effects, fungal inoculation resulted in the synthesis of the four known 3-deoxyanthocyanidin phytoalexins and a corresponding activation of genes encoding the key branch-point enzymes in the phenylpropanoid pathway, phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and chalcone synthase. In addition, a gene encoding the pathogenesis-related protein PR-10 was strongly induced in response to inoculation. The accumulation of phytoalexins leveled off by 48 h after inoculation and was accompanied by a more rapid increase in the rate of anthocyanin accumulation. The results suggest that the plant represses less essential metabolic activities such as anthocyanin synthesis as a means of compensating for the immediate biochemical and physiological needs for the defense response.
C4 photosynthesis is functionally dependent on metabolic interactions between mesophyll and bundle-sheath cells. Although the C4 cycle is biochemically well understood many aspects of the regulation of enzyme activities, gene expression and cell differentiation are elusive. Protein kinases are likely involved in these regulatory processes providing links to hormonal, metabolic and developmental signal transduction pathways. We have identified several protein kinases that are differentially expressed in mesophyll and bundle-sheath cells of the C4 plant Sorghum bicolor. Here we describe the characterization of two putative protein kinases that show high similarity to the SNF1/AMPK family of protein serine/threonine kinases. The mRNA of both kinases accumulates to much higher levels in mesophyll cells than in the bundle-sheath and can also be detected in root tissue. Complementation experiments with a snf1 mutant of Saccharomyces cerevisiae indicate that the S. bicolor protein kinase SNFL1 does not represent a functional homologue of the yeast SNF1 protein kinase.
The seed storage proteins of Coix, sorghum and maize are codified by homologous genes which are coordinately expressed in the endosperm in a temporal-specific fashion. Opaque2 (O2), a bZIP protein originally isolated from maize, has been described as a transcription activator of alpha- and beta-prolamin genes. The isolation and characterization of cDNA and genomic clones encoding the Opaque2 homologue from Coix are reported here. The coding region of the Coix O2 gene is interrupted by five introns and codifies a polypeptide of 408 amino acids. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with two different sequences of maize O2 protein showed that the Coix O2 protein is similar to the maize O2 isolated from W22 maize inbred line. The Coix O2 protein has the same binding specificity and expression pattern of the maize O2. The O2 proteins together with OHP1, OsBZIPPA, SPA, CPRF2 and RITA1 were assigned to one of the five bZIP plant families in an updated classification of plant bZIP according to bZIP domain similarity.
Rf8 is a newly described nuclear gene that can substitute for Rf1 to partially restore pollen fertility to male-sterile, T-cytoplasm maize. Families segregating for Rf8 were used to investigate the mechanism of this fertility restoration and to compare it to the restoration conditioned by Rf1. Although Rf8 is unlinked to the rf1 locus, it also alters T-urf13 mitochondrial transcript accumulation and reduces the accumulation of the URF13 protein. Like the 1.6- and 0.6-kilobase (kb) T-urf13 transcripts that accumulate in T-cytoplasm plants carrying Rf1, 1.42- and 0.42-kb transcripts accumulate in plants that are partially restored by Rf8. A survey of T-cytoplasm maize lines, inbreds, and F1 hybrids by mitochondrial RNA gel blot analyses revealed that Rf8 is rare in maize germplasm. These surveys revealed the presence of another rare, weak restorer factor, Rf*, which is uniquely associated with the accumulation of 1.4- and 0.4-kb T-urf13 transcripts. Primer extension analyses position the 5' termini of the 1.42/0.42-kb and 1.4/0.4-kb transcripts at +137 and +159 nucleotides, respectively, 3' of the AUG initiation codon of the T-urf13 reading frame. The conserved motif, 5'-CNACNNU-3', overlaps the 5' termini of the Rf1-, Rf8-, and Rf*-associated transcripts and the 380 nucleotide, Rf3-associated orf107 transcript from cytoplasmic male sterility sorghum. These results demonstrate that multiple unlinked, nuclear genes can have similar but distinct effects on the expression of the unique T-urf13 mitochondrial coding sequence to restore pollen fertility to T-cytoplasm maize.
Transcriptional initiation and processing was examined for three sorghum mitochondrial DNA genes (atp6-1, atp6-2, urf209) and two open reading frames (orf265/130, orf107) to characterize sequences associated with initiation and other transcriptional strategies for this species. The 5' termini of ten transcripts were determined by primer extension, and mtRNA was capped with guanylyl transferase and annealed to anti-sense riboprobes to identify transcriptional initiation regions. Eight transcript termini were suitable substrates for guanylyl transferase, indicating the presence of one (atp6-1, atp6-2, urf209), two (orf265/130), or three (orf107) promoters for the five examples. The majority of the putative promoters were associated with single primer-extension termini, while two examples exhibited two transcript-initiation sites within the promoter. Four examples were characterized by initiated transcripts without subsequent processing, indicating that processing is not obligatory. Each of the putative promoter regions included significant A/T-rich 5' regions, consistent with previous examples, but four exceptions to a consensus core YRTA sequence were identified. The anomalies (AATA, CTTA) suggest plasticity in the primary structure of the core region of higher-plant mitochondrial DNA promoters.
Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) kinase was partially purified about 3000-fold from soybean root nodules by a fast-protein liquid chromatography protocol. This protein-serine kinase has an apparent native molecular mass of about 30,000 as estimated by size-exclusion chromatography. Following electrophoresis of this partially purified PEPC-kinase preparation in a denaturing gel containing dephospho maize leaf PEPC as substrate, the in situ renaturation and assay of protein kinase activity revealed two, PEPC-dependent kinase polypeptides with molecular masses of about 32 and 37 kDa. The approximately 32-kDa polypeptide was significantly more active than the approximately 37-kDa catalytic subunit. The activity of this partially purified PEPC kinase, and a less purified sample, was Ca2+-insensitive. This protein kinase preparation was able to phosphorylate purified PEPCs from soybean nodules, maize leaves, and a sorghum recombinant C4 PEPC. In contrast, this PEPC kinase was unable to phosphorylate a phosphorylation-site mutant form of sorghum C4 PEPC (S8Y), two other soybean nodule phosphoproteins [nodulin-26 and nodulin-100 (sucrose synthase)], bovine serum albumin, and histone III-S. Following in vitro phosphorylation of purified dephospho soybean nodule PEPC from stem-girdled plants by the partially purified nodule PEPC kinase, the former's activity and sensitivity to L-malate inhibition increased and decreased, respectively. Notably, the Ca2+-independent PEPC kinase activity in nodules from illuminated plants was markedly greater than that in nodules harvested from plants subjected to stem girdling or prolonged darkness. Furthermore, the kinase activity in nodules was controlled reversibly by illumination and extended darkness pretreatments of the parent plants, suggesting that photosynthate supply from the shoots is likely responsible for these striking changes in PEPC kinase activity observed in planta in the legume nodule.
Sorghum mitochondrial atp9 is polymorphic among male-sterile cytoplasms, but each cytoplasm is characterized by a major 650 nt transcript, regardless of fertility status. The gene is positioned 323 bp 3' to trnfM. Primer extension revealed multiple atp9 5' transcript termini, distributed from +1 to +28 3' to trnfM; the termini could be labeled with polynucleotide kinase, suggesting that they result from the maturation of trnfM. Guanylyltransferase experiments, however, showed that four of the termini were capable. The juxtaposition of a putative promoter 3' to trnfM results in a unique atp9 transcript population consisting of primary and processed transcripts.
Flaveria bidentis, a C4 dicot, was transformed with sorghum (a monocot) cDNA clones encoding NADP-malate dehydrogenase (NADP-MDH; EC 1.1.1.82) driven by the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Although these constructs were designed for over-expression, many transformants contained between 5 and 50% of normal NADP-MDH activity, presumably by cosense suppression of the native gene. The activities of a range of other photosynthetic enzymes were unaffected. Rates of photosynthesis in plants with less than about 10% of normal activity were reduced at high light and at high [CO2], but were unaffected at low light or at [CO2] below about 150 [mu]L L-1. The large decrease in maximum activity of NADP-MDH was accompanied by an increase in the activation state of the enzyme. However, the activation state was unaffected in plants with 50% of normal activity. Metabolic flux control analysis of plants with a range of activities demonstrates that this enzyme is not important in regulating the steady-state flux through C4 photosynthesis in F. bidentis. Cosense suppression of gene expression was similarly effective in both the mesophyll and bundle-sheath cells. Photosynthesis of plants with very low activity of NADP-MDH in the bundle-sheath cells was only slightly inhibited, suggesting that the presence of the enzyme in this compartment is not essential for supporting maximum rates of photosynthesis.
The NADPH-dependent HC-toxin reductase (HCTR), encoded by Hm1 in maize, inactivates HC-toxin produced by the fungus Cochliobolus carbonum, and thus confers resistance to the pathogen. The fact that C. carbonum only infects maize (Zea mays) and is the only species known to produce HC-toxin raises the question: What are the biological functions of HCTR in other plant species? An HCTR-like enzyme may function to detoxify toxins produced by pathogens which infect other plant species (R. B. Meeley, G. S. Johal, S. E. Briggs, and J. D. Walton, Plant Cell, 4:71-77, 1992). Hm1 homolog in rice (Y. Hihara, M. Umeda, C. Hara, Q. Liu, S. Aotsuka, K. Toriyama, and H. Uchimiya, unpublished) and HCTR activity in barley, wheat, oats and sorghum have been reported (R. B. Meeley and J. D. Walton, Plant Physiol. 97:1080-1086, 1993). To investigate the sequence conservation of Hm1 and HCTR in barley and the possible relationship of barley Hm1 homolog to the known disease resistance genes, we cloned and mapped a barley (Hordeum vulgare) Hm1-like gene. A putative full-length cDNA clone, Bhm1-18, was isolated from a cDNA library consisting of mRNA from young leaves, inflorescences, and immature embryos. This 1,297-bp clone encodes 363 amino acids which show great similarity (81.6%) with the amino acid sequence of HM1 in maize. Two loci were mapped to barley molecular marker linkage maps with Bhm1-18 as the probe; locus A (Bhm1A) on the long arm of chromosome 1, and locus B (Bhm1B) on the short arm of chromosome 1 which is syntenic to maize chromosome 9 containing the Hm2 locus. The Bhm1-18 probe hybridized strongly to a Southern blot of a wide range of grass species, indicating high conservation of HCTR at the DNA sequence level among grasses. The HCTR mRNA was detected in barley roots, leaves, inflorescences, and immature embryos. The conservation of the HCTR sequence, together with its expression in other plant species (R. B. Meeley and J. D. Walton, Plant Physiol. 97:1080-1086, 1993), suggest HCTR plays an important functional role in other plant species.
With the aim of elucidating the complex genetic system controlling flower morphogenesis in cereals, we have characterized two rice and two sorghum MADS box genes isolated from cDNA libraries made from developing inflorescences. The rice clones OsMADS24 and OsMADS45, which share high homology with the Arabidopsis AGL2 and AGL4 MADS box genes, are expressed in the floral meristem, in all the primordia, and in mature floral organs. High expression levels have also been found in developing kernels. The sorghum clone SbMADS1 is also homologous to AGL2 and AGL4: expression analysis and mapping data suggest that it is the ortholog of OsMADS24. The pattern of expression of SbMADS2, the other sorghum MADS box gene, suggests that it may play a role as a meristem identity gene, as does AP1 in Arabidopsis, to which it shows considerable homology. The four genes have been mapped on a rice RFLP genetic map: the results are discussed in terms of synteny among cereals.
Obtusifoliol 14 alpha-demethylase from Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench has been cloned using a gene-specific probe generated using PCR primers designed from an internal 14 amino acid sequence. The sequence identifies sorghum obtusifoliol 14 alpha-demethylase as a cytochrome P450 and it is assigned to the CYP51 family together with the sterol 14 alpha-demethylases from fungi and mammals. The presence of highly conserved regions in the amino acid sequences, analogous substrates and the same metabolic role demonstrate that the sterol 14 alpha-demethylases are orthologous enzymes. The sterol 14 alpha-demethylases catalyse an essential step in sterol biosynthesis as evidenced by the absence of a 14 alpha-methyl group in all known functional sterols. A functional sorghum obtusifoliol 14 alpha-demethylase was expressed at high levels in Escherichia coli and purified using an efficient method based on temperature-induced Triton X-114 phase partitioning. The recombinant purified enzyme produced a type I spectrum with obtusifoliol as substrate. Reconstitution of purified recombinant enzyme with sorghum NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase in dilaurylphosphatidylcholine micelles confirms that obtusifoliol 14 alpha-demethylase catalyses the 14 alpha-demethylation of obtusifoliol to 4 alpha-methyl-5 alpha-ergosta-8, 14,24(28)-trien-3 beta-ol as evidenced by GC-MS. The isolation of a cDNA clone encoding the plant sterol 14 alpha-demethylase, combined with the previously isolated cDNA clones for fungal and mammalian sterol 14 alpha-demethylases, provides an important tool in the rational design of specific inhibitors towards the individual sterol 14 alpha-demethylases.
The Ma3 gene is one of six genes that regulate the photoperiodic sensitivity of flowering in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor [L.] Moench). The ma3R mutation of this gene causes a phenotype that is similar to plants that are known to lack phytochrome B, and ma3 sorghum lacks a 123-KD phytochrome that predominates in light-grown plants and that is present in non-ma3 plants. A population segregating for Ma3 and ma3 was created and used to identify two randomly amplified polymorphic DNA markers linked to Ma3. These two markers were cloned and mapped in a recombinant inbred population as restriction fragment length polymorphisms. cDNA clones of PHYA and PHYC were cloned and sequenced from a cDNA library prepared from green sorghum leaves. Using a genome-walking technique, a 7941-bp partial sequence of PHYB, was determined from genomic DNA from ma3 sorghum. PHYA, PHYB, and PHYC all mapped to the same linkage group. The Ma3-linked markers mapped with PHYB more than 121 centimorgans from PHYA and PHYC. A frameshift mutation resulting in a premature stop codon was found in the PHYB sequence from ma3 sorghum. Therefore, we conclude that the Ma3 locus in sorghum is a PHYB gene that encodes a 123-kD phytochrome.
Sequences corresponding to 855 bp of 5' promoter region and the transit peptide from lambdaGK.1,a genomic clone encoding a 22 kDa alpha-kafirin seed protein from sorghum, were translationally fused to a cloned beta-glucuronidase (GUS) coding sequence from uidA and transferred to tobacco via Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. No GUS expression was detectable at any stage of growth in stems or leaves of these plants. However, GUS expression was detected in both embryo and endosperm tissues of resulting tobacco seeds 10-15 days after flowering. Dissected tissues indicate endosperm expression was localized within the bulk endosperm and not within the parenchyma cell layer underlying the integument. These studies also demonstrate that within dissected tobacco embryos, expression from the kafirin promoter was restricted to the mesocotyl region.
A chimeric mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) configuration of the cytoplasmic male-sterile (cms) sorghum line IS1112C includes a 321 bp open reading frame designated orf107, encoding a predicted polypeptide product of 11.85 kDa. The open reading frame, similar to several other genes associated with cms, consists of amino-terminal sequences derived from an obligate gene. Unlike other examples to date, however, the carboxy-terminal sequences are highly similar to the carboxy terminus of an open reading frame implicated in cms of rice, orf79. The amino-terminal 31 residues of orf107 are 84% similar to atp9, and the carboxy-terminal 49 residues are 57% identical and 80% similar to the carboxy terminus of orf79. Transcripts of orf107 are edited, with four C-to-U changes that alter amino acids. Sorghum lines partially or fully restored to fertility exhibit a high-efficiency internal-orf107 transcript processing activity, precluding abundant whole-length transcripts, while male-sterile lines exhibit only a trace of the activity. Previous data on the abundance of a 12kDa in organello-synthesized polypeptide in male-sterile versus male-fertile lines are correlated with differential orf107 transcript processing activity of these lines. Examinations of backcross and F2 lines suggest a gametophytic mode of restoration, and indicate that enhanced transcript processing activity is necessary, but not sufficient, to restore full fertility. These novel observations indicate that mitochondrial open reading frames associated with cms in different species can include highly similar motifs, and that fertility restoration could involve a mechanism by which synthesis of a cms-associated gene product may be precluded through internal transcript cleavage.
A new sulfur-rich basic polypeptide, so called omega-hordothionin, has been isolated from barley endosperm by extractions with NaCl and ammonium bicarbonate followed by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography. Purified omega-hordothionin was found to be homogeneous by SDS/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, N-terminal amino-acid sequencing and electrospray-ionization mass spectrometric analysis. The complete primary structure of omega-hordothionin was determined by automatic degradation of the intact molecule and peptides obtained by proteolytic cleavage. Omega-hordothionin consists of a single polypeptide chain of 48 amino acids with a molecular mass of 5508 Da deduced from its amino acid sequence, which fully coincides with the 5508.2 Da determined by electrospray-ionization mass spectrometry. The isolated polypeptide showed a characteristic composition with a high content of basic amino acids (five arginine residues, two lysine residues and six histidine residues) and eight cysteine residues, and has strong sequence identity (66%) with the sorghum SI alpha 1 alpha-amylase inhibitor. Omega-hordothionin, like gamma-hordothionin, exhibited translation inhibitory activity on both eukaryotic cell-free systems from mammalian (rat liver and rabbit reticulocyte lysates) and prokaryotic cell-free systems (Escherichia coli). However, in contrast to gamma-hordothionin, omega-hordothionin did not inhibit plant systems such as Triticum aestivum, Cucumis sativus, Vicia sativa and Hordeum vulgare. Gamma-hordothionin also inhibited the alpha-amylase activity from human saliva, while omega-hordothionin and the other different genetic variants of thionins, alpha-hordothionin and beta-hordothionin, failed to show any inhibitory effect.
The ability to synthesize and accumulate glycine betaine is wide-spread among angiosperms and is thought to contribute to salt and drought tolerance. In plants glycine betaine is synthesized by the two-step oxidation of choline via the intermediate betaine aldehyde, catalyzed by choline monooxygenase and betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH). Two sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) cDNA clones, BADH1 and BADH15, putatively encoding betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase were isolated and characterized. BADH1 is a truncated cDNA of 1391 bp. BADH15 is a full-length cDNA clone, 1812 bp in length, predicted to encode a protein of 53.6 kD. The predicted amino acid sequences of BADH1 and BADH15 share significant homology with other plant BADHs. The effects of water deficit on BADH mRNA expression, leaf water relations, and glycine betaine accumulation were investigated in leaves of preflowering sorghum plants. BADH1 and BADH15 mRNA were both induced by water deficit and their expression coincided with the observed glycine betaine accumulation. During the course of 17 d, the leaf water potential in stressed sorghum plants reached -2.3 MPa. In response to water deficit, glycine betaine levels increased 26-fold and proline levels increased 108-fold. In severely stressed plants, proline accounted for > 60% of the total free amino acid pool. Accumulation of these compatible solutes significantly contributed to osmotic potential and allowed a maximal osmotic adjustment of 0.405 MPa.
We describe fundamental characteristics of sorghum mitochondrial orf25, urf209, and a related chimeric configuration, orf265/130, which is restricted to the IS1112C source of cytoplasmic male sterility in sorghum. Transcripts of urf209 are edited at ten nucleotides, resulting in nine amino-acid changes predicted from genomic sequences. The cDNA-predicted polypeptide product is 23.6 kDa, while Western blot analyses identify a product of 20k Da. Transcription of urf209 is characterized by one or two transcripts, dependent on nuclear background, but this difference is not related to male fertility status. The orf265/130 chimeric region includes 288 bp 95% identical to sequences 5' to maize T-cytoplasm T-urf13 and atp6, which includes a common transcription initiation site, and terminates with a recombinational event involving urf209. The urf209 similarity extends 189 bp, followed by sequences duplicated 5' to sorghum atp6-2. Sequences immediately 3' to the atp6-2 similarity include a second in-frame start codon, defining orf130. Structural features 5' to orf130 are shared with motifs found 5' to several translated mitochondrial open reading frames. The orf265/orf130 configuration is uniquely transcribed, and transcripts of orf130 exhibit one silent RNA editing event. Transcription in somatic cells is not altered by male fertility status.
Exploiting the differential expression of genes for Calvin cycle enzymes in bundle-sheath and mesophyll cells of the C4 plant Sorghum bicolor L., we isolated via subtractive hybridization a molecular probe for the Calvin cycle enzyme D-ribulose-5-phosphate 3-epimerase (R5P3E)(EC 5.1.3.1), with the help of which several full-size cDNAs were isolated from spinach. Functional identity of the encoded mature subunit was shown by R5P3E activity found in affinity-purified glutatione S-transferase fusions expressed in Escherichia coli and by three-fold increase of R5P3E activity upon induction of E. coli overexpressing the spinach subunit under the control of the bacteriophage T7 promoter, demonstrating that we have cloned the first functional ribulose-5-phosphate 3-epimerase from any eukaryotic source. The chloroplast enzyme from spinach shares about 50% amino acid identity with its homologues from the Calvin cycle operons of the autotrophic purple bacteria Alcaligenes eutrophus and Rhodospirillum rubrum. A R5P3E-related eubacterial gene family was identified which arose through ancient duplications in prokaryotic chromosomes, three R5P3E-related genes of yet unknown function have persisted to the present within the E. coli genome. A gene phylogeny reveals that spinach R5P3E is more similar to eubacterial homologues than to the yeast sequence, suggesting a eubacterial origin for this plant nuclear gene.
We have previously shown that the tandemly duplicated 27 kDa maize storage protein locus underwent mitotic rearrangement to yield a single-copy allele in isolates of the inbred line A188. This rearrangement contains a new LTR retrotransposon, designated Zeon-1. This middle repetitive element of 7313 bp had two long terminal repeats, a primer binding site, a polypurine tract and a gag-related open reading frame of 375 amino acids. Transcripts of the gag-related region were detected by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in certain maize tissues, and Western blots detected the gag-related protein in the same tissues. Moreover, the product of this mitotic rearrangement was shown to contain the same insertion site and 3' LTR as Zeon-1, suggesting that this rearrangement occurs with unusual precision. Zeon elements were found to be present in teosinte and not present in the Gramineae wheat, barley, sorghum and rye.
A 165 bp deletion in the middle of rpoC2, the plastid gene which encodes the RNA polymerase beta" subunit, was identified in the small-anthered types of CMS sorghum, Sorghum bicolor (L.). Moench, containing A1, A2, A5, and A6 cytoplasms. It was previously shown that the amino acid sequence deleted in these CMS lines is in a monocot-specific region that contains several protein motifs that are characteristic of several transcription factors. Using primers flanking the deletion in PCR analyses, various types of CMS lines, some of which are used in hybrid sorghum production, were classified into two groups. CMS lines containing A1, A2, A5, A6 cytoplasms display the deletion in rpoC2. These lines have small anthers in which pollen development is arrested at an early stage and in which usually only empty exines are found. CMS lines containing A3, A4, and 9E cytoplasms do not possess the deletion. These lines have large anthers in which pollen degenerates at a later stage. Run-on transcription assays using 15 chloroplast genes showed that chloroplast gene transcription rates are similar in CMS and fertile (maintainer and restorer) lines and F1 in seedling leaves. Analyses of RNA blots indicated that rbcL, rpoB and rpoC2 transcripts are accumulated mainly in the leaves and low in the inflorescence tissues and pollen. These data document plastid gene expression in leaves and non-photosynthetic tissues from CMS and fertile lines of sorghum.
We have observed numerous examples of silent or rare non-silent editing sites in the amino-extension and part of the conserved core of mitochondrial atp6 transcripts of Sorghum. In this region of the 1.4-kb atp6-2 mRNA (position 300 to 550) two editing sites, which alter the amino-acid sequence and occur in all cDNAs analysed, were already known, while nine others were found which are silent or occur in a few mRNAs only. Many aspects of RNA editing in the mitochondria of higher plants are still unknown. This includes the influence of genomic background or silent RNA editing. We were interested in the influence of nuclear and mitochondrial backgrounds on RNA editing. Previous preliminary results indicated the possibility of line-specific editing at silent sites. However, a more comprehensive approach gave no consistent evidence for such editing. These results are discussed with respect to their potential impact on the evolution of mitochondrial genes.
Water stress is one of the major constraints to the grain yield of sorghum in tropical and sub-tropical areas of the world. Osmotic adjustment has been widely proposed as a plant attribute that confers adaptation to water stress. The inheritance of osmotic adjustment to water stress was investigated in a series of generations derived from the three possible bi-parental crosses between two inbred sorghum lines with a high capacity for osmotic adjustment (Tx2813 and TAM422; high-OA lines) and one with a low capacity (QL27; low-OA line). Broad-sense heritability on a single-plant basis was generally found to be high. Analysis of segregation ratios by the mixture method of clustering identified two independent major genes for high osmotic adjustment. The line Tx2813 possessed a recessive gene which is given the symbol oa1; the line TAM422 possessed an additive gene which is given the symbol OA2. There was some evidence that there may be other minor genes which influence the expression of osmotic adjustment in these crosses as two putative transgressive segregants, with higher osmotic adjustment than the parents, were identified from the cross between Tx2813 and TAM422. Populations of recombinant inbred lines were developed and characterised for osmotic adjustment for two of the crosses (QL27 x TAM422, low-OA x high-OA; Tx2813 x TAM422, high-oal x high-OA2). These will be used to conduct experiments which test hypotheses about the contribution of the high-osmotic-adjustment genes to the grain yield of sorghum under a range of water-stress conditions.
Chloroplastic NADP(+)-malate dehydrogenase (cpMDH, EC 1.1.1.82) is a key enzyme in the carbon-fixation pathway of some C4 plants such as the monocotyledons maize or Sorghum. We have expressed cpMDH from Sorghum vulgare Pers. in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) (a dicotyledonous C3 plant) by using a gene composed of the Sorghum cpMDH cDNA under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. High steady-state levels of cpMDH mRNA were observed in isogenic dihaploid transgenic tobacco lines. Sorghum cpMDH protein was detected in transgenic leaf extracts, where a threefold higher cpMDH activity could be measured, compared with control tobacco leaves. The recombinant protein was identical in molecular mass and in N-terminal sequence to Sorghum cpMDH. The tobacco cpMDH protein which has a distinct N-terminal sequence, could not be detected in transgenic plants. Immunocytochemical analyses showed that Sorghum cpMDH was specifically localized in transgenic tobacco chloroplasts. These data indicate that Sorghum cpMDH preprotein was efficiently synthesized, transported into and processed in tobacco chloroplasts. Thus, C3-C4 photosynthesis specialization or monocotyledon-dicotyledon evolution did not affect the chloroplastic protein-import machinery. The higher levels of cpMDH in transgenic leaves resulted in an increase of L-malate content, suggesting that carbon metabolism was altered by the expression of the Sorghum enzyme.
An upstream region from an algal virus methyltransferase gene was tested for promoter function in transgenic plants, electroporated monocot protoplasts and bacteria. Fusion of the 851 bp upstream region to a reporter gene significantly enhanced the reporter gene expression in transgenic Arabidopsis and potato plants and in electroporated maize and Sorghum cells relative to the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. The promoter was also functional in several Escherichia coli strains and in three species of phytopathogenic bacteria, Erwinia, Pseudomonas, and Xanthomonas. These findings indicate that the upstream region is a strong promoter uniquely functional in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes and capable of using both eukaryotic RNA polymerase II and bacterial RNA polymerases.
The heterotetrameric enzyme hydroxynitrile lyase (HNL) from sorghum (EC 4.1.2.11) is involved in the catabolism of the cyanogenic glycoside dhurrin. We have isolated a cDNA clone comprising about 90% of the COOH terminal sequence of a precursor which encodes both subunit of HNL from Sorghum bicolor L. (SbHNL). Hence the subunits of SbHNL must be the result of post-translational processing. The deduced amino acid sequence of HNL shares significant sequence homology with members of the serine carboxypeptidase family. In particular, HNL from sorghum shares the catalytical triad Asp. His, and Ser with these enzymes which evolved in 3 groups of enzymes (carboxypeptidase, chymotrypsin, and subtilisin) by convergent evolution. Moreover, like serine carboxypeptidases, HNL from sorghum consists of two pairs of glycosylated cysteine linked A and B chains forming a heterotetramer of a molecular weight of 105,000 (carboxypeptidases 120,000). Thus, HNL from sorghum closely resembles to serine carboxypeptidases but differs from all other HNLs described so far. Western blotting experiments revealed cross reaction between carboxypeptidase from wheat and anti SbHNL antisera. Therefore, convergent evolution of HNLs from various ancestoral enzymes is conceivable. Hybridization of SbHNL cDNA to northern blots of total RNAs isolated from various organs of young sorghum seedlings shows the same expression pattern of HNL as found by means of western blotting or enzyme assays. Using PCR and Southern blot analysis, we demonstrated that the gene of SbHNL is free of introns. Further sequence analysis of cDNA clones and genomic DNA revealed a stretch of 23 adenine residues in the 3'-untranslated part of the gene. Both, intronless organisation of the gene and a genomic stretch of oligo A suggests that SbHNL may have evolved by a reverse transcription event.
The transcription of plastome-encoded genes in mesophyll and bundle-sheath chloroplasts of the monocotyledonous NADP-malic enzyme-type C4 species Zea mays L. (maize) and Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench. was investigated. RNA accumulation and transcription were assayed starting from isolated mesophyll and bundle-sheath chloroplasts and using quantitative northern and run-on transcription analysis. Determination of the mesophyll to bundle-sheath ratios of transcript abundance in maize and Sorghum chloroplasts showed that the mRNAs of the plastome-encoded photosystem II genes analysed (psbA, psbB, psbD, psbH and psbE/F) varied from 2.5- to 4.0-fold (maize) and 3.1- to 5.2-fold (Sorghum), respectively. The rbcL transcript, in contrast, was more abundant in bundle-sheath chloroplasts of both species, about 3-fold in maize and more than 10-fold in Sorghum. On the other hand, transcripts of genes encoding the 16S ribosomal RNA (r16) and subunits of photosystem I (psaA) and the cytochrome b/f complex (petB, petA) accumulated to similar levels in both types of chloroplasts. Determination of absolute transcript levels for rbcL and psbA in chloroplasts from maize and Sorghum demonstrated that for both genes, the mesophyll to bundle-sheath differences in transcript abundance were more pronounced in Sorghum. Measurements of the transcriptional activities of rbcL and psbA showed that the transcription rate of rbcL is higher in bundle-sheath chloroplasts while psbA is more actively transcribed in mesophyll chloroplasts. The differences in the transcription rates between the two chloroplast types were again more pronounced in Sorghum, thus reflecting the differences between maize and Sorghum in the relative levels of the rbcL and psbA transcripts. However, although transcription rate and mRNA abundance are correlated, they did not exactly match one another. This indicates additional regulation of transcript abundance at the level of RNA stability.
We have characterized the expression of two members of a class of Arabidopsis thaliana glycine-rich, putative RNA-binding proteins that we denote Ccr1 and Ccr2. Southern blot analysis indicates that Ccr1 and Ccr2 are members of a small gene family. Both Ccr1 and Ccr2 mRNA levels were influenced by a circadian rhythm that has an unusual phase for plants, with maximal accumulation at 6:00 PM and minimal accumulation at 10:00 AM. The level of CCR1 protein, however, remained relatively constant throughout the cycle. The transcript accumulation patterns of the Ccr1 and Ccr2 genes differed considerably from conditions that affect the expression of similar genes from maize, sorghum, and carrot. Levels of Ccr1 and Ccr2 mRNAs were unchanged in wounded plants, increased at least 4-fold in cold-stressed plants, and decreased 2- to 3-fold in abscisic acid-treated plants. Ccr1 transcript levels decreased in response to drought, whereas Ccr2 transcript levels increased under the same conditions. Based on the presence of additional Ccr transcripts in dark-grown plants, we propose that Ccr transcripts may be subjected to a light- or dark-mediated regulation.
Three to four families of nuclear genes encode different isoforms of phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) carboxylase (PEPC): C4-specific, C3 or etiolated, CAM and root forms. C4 leaf PEPC is encoded by a single gene (ppc) in sorghum and maize, but multiple genes in the C4-dicot Flaveria trinervia. Selective expression of ppc in only C4-mesophyll cells is proposed to be due to nuclear factors, DNA methylation and a distinct gene promoter. Deduced amino acid sequences of C4-PEPC pinpoint the phosphorylatable serine near the N-terminus, C4-specific valine and serine residues near the C-terminus, conserved cysteine, lysine and histidine residues and PEP binding/catalytic sites. During the PEPC reaction, PEP and bicarbonate are first converted into carboxyphosphate and the enolate of pyruvate. Carboxyphosphate decomposes within the active site into Pi and CO2, the latter combining with the enolate to form oxalacetate. Besides carboxylation, PEPC catalyzes a HCO3 (-)-dependent hydrolysis of PEP to yield pyruvate and Pi. Post-translational regulation of PEPC occurs by a phosphorylation/dephosphorylation cascade in vivo and by reversible enzyme oligomerization in vitro. The interrelation between phosphorylation and oligomerization of the enzyme is not clear. PEPC-protein kinase (PEPC-PK), the enzyme responsible for phosphorylation of PEPC, has been studied extensively while only limited information is available on the protein phosphatase 2A capable of dephosphorylating PEPC. The C4 ppc was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli as well as tobacco. The transformed E. coli produced a functional/phosphorylatable C4 PEPC and the transgenic tobacco plants expressed both C3 and C4 isoforms. Site-directed mutagenesis of ppc indicates the importance of His(138), His(579) and Arg(587) in catalysis and/or substrate-binding by the E. coli enzyme, Ser(8) in the regulation of sorghum PEPC. Important areas for further research on C4 PEPC are: mechanism of transduction of light signal during photoactivation of PEPC-PK and PEPC in leaves, extensive use of site-directed mutagenesis to precisely identify other key amino acid residues, changes in quarternary structure of PEPC in vivo, a high-resolution crystal structure, and hormonal regulation of PEPC expression.
The Opaque-2 (O2) gene from maize encodes a transcriptional activator of the b-ZIP class. We have isolated and characterized a gene from sorghum, related in sequence to the O2 gene from maize. A single copy of the gene is present in sorghum. Both genomic and cDNA sequences of the O2-related sorghum gene were determined. The sequence is highly homologous to maize O2 both in the promoter and in the coding region. The most closely related sequences contain the b-ZIP domain with only 11 amino acid substitutions in a total of 122 residues. In transient expression assays, the sorghum O2-related coding sequence, expressed from a CaMV 35S promoter, activates expression from the maize b-32 promoter as effectively as that obtained with the maize O2 sequence.
The deduced protein sequence of a partial tomato cDNA clone is rich in the amino acid glycine and contains repeats of the amino acid sequence, (Gly)5Tyr(Gly)4-5Tyr(Gly)3ArgArgGlu. This protein sequence has significant similarity to a sorghum glycine-rich protein [S1, Cretin and Puigdomenech (1990) Plant Mol. Biol. 15: 783] and a maize embryo, abscisic acid-induced glycine-rich protein [Gomez et al. (1988) Nature 334: 262]. Tissue printing was used to localize the glycine-rich protein transcript in tomato fruit, stem and hypocotyl sections. The transcript is present throughout the tomato fruit pericarp but is enriched in the vascular bundles. In tomato hypocotyl tissue prints, the glycine-rich protein transcript as well as rRNA were localized within the vascular tissue. This shows that differential loading of RNA may occur when using the tissue printing technique on hypocotyl sections. Direct isolation and comparison of RNA from vascular-containing and non-vascular stem tissue confirmed, however, that the glycine-rich protein transcript is accumulated abundantly in the vascular tissue of tomato stem.
Transgenic sorghum plants have been obtained after microprojectile bombardment of immature zygotic embryos of a drought-resistant sorghum cultivar, P898012. DNA delivery parameters were optimized based on transient expression of R and C1 maize anthocyanin regulatory elements in scutellar cells. The protocol for obtaining transgenic plants consists of the delivery of the bar gene to immature zygotic embryos and the imposition of bialaphos selection pressure at various stages during culture, from induction of somatic embryogenesis to rooting of regenerated plantlets. One in about every 350 embryos produced embryogenic tissues that survived bialaphos treatment; six transformed callus lines were obtained from three of the eight sorghum cultivars used in this research. Transgenic (T0) plants were obtained from cultivar P898012 (two independent transformation events). The presence of the bar and uidA genes in the T0 plants was confirmed by Southern blot analysis of genomic DNA. Phosphinothricin acetyltransferase activity was detected in extracts of the T0 plants. These plants were resistant to local application of the herbicide Ignite/Basta, and the resistance was inherited in T1 plants as a single dominant locus.
Several genomic and cDNA clones encoding the 22 kDa-like alpha-coixin, the alpha-prolamin of Coix seeds, were isolated and sequenced. Three contiguous 22 kDa-like alpha-coixin genes designated alpha-3A, alpha-3B and alpha-3C were found in the 15 kb alpha-3 genomic clone. The alpha-3A and alpha-3C genes presented in-frame stop codons at position +652. The two genes with truncated ORFs are flanking the alpha-3B gene, suggesting that the three alpha-coixin genes may have arisen by tandem duplication and that the stop codon was introduced before the duplication. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of alpha-coixin clones with the published sequences of 22 kDa alpha-zein and 22 kDa-like alpha-kafirin revealed a highly conserved protein structure. The protein consists of an N-terminus, containing the signal peptide, followed by ten highly conserved tandem repeats of 15-20 amino acids flanked by polyglutamines, and a short C-terminus. The difference between the 22 kDa-like alpha-prolamins and the 19 kDa alpha-zein lies in the fact that the 19 kDa protein is exactly one repeat motif shorter than the 22 kDa proteins. Several putative regulatory sequences common to the zein and kafirin genes were identified within both the 5' and 3' flanking regions of alpha-3B. Nucleotide sequences that match the consensus TATA, CATC and the ca. -300 prolamin box are present at conserved positions in alpha-3B relative to zein and kafirin genes. Two putative Opaque-2 boxes are present in alpha-3B that occupies approximately the same positions as those identified for the 22 kDa alpha-zein and alpha-kafirin genes. Southern hybridization, using a fragment of a maize Opaque-2 cDNA clone as a probe, confirmed the presence of Opaque-2 homologous sequences in the Coix and sorghum genomes. The overall results suggest that the structural and regulatory genes involved in the expression of the 22 kDa-like alpha-prolamin genes of Coix, sorghum and maize, originated from a common ancestor, and that variations were introduced in the structural and regulatory sequences after species separation.
Although housekeeping functions have been shown for the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (EC 4.1.1.31, PEPC) in plants and in prokaryotes, PEPC is mainly known for its specific role in the primary photosynthetic CO2 fixation in C4 and CAM plants. We have shown that in Sorghum, a monocotyledonous C4 plant, the enzyme is encoded in the nucleus by a small multigene family. Here we report the entire nucleotide sequence (7.5 kb) of the third member (CP21) that completes the structure of the Sorghum PEPC gene family. Nucleotide composition, CpG islands and GC content of the three Sorghum PEPC genes are analysed with respect to their possible implications in the regulation of expression. A study of structure/function and phylogenetic relationships based on the compilation of all PEPC sequences known so far is presented. Data demonstrated that: (1) the different forms of plant PEPC have very similar primary structures, functional and regulatory properties, (2) neither apparent amino acid sequences nor phylogenetic relationships are specific for the C4 and CAM PEPCs and (3) expression of the different genes coding for the Sorghum PEPC isoenzymes is differently regulated (i.e. by light, nitrogen source) in a spatial and temporal manner. These results suggest that the main distinguishing feature between plant PEPCs is to be found at the level of genes expression rather than in their primary structure.
RNA editing was analysed in the mitochondrial ATPase complex subunit 6 gene (atp6) transcripts of the C male-sterile cytoplasm (cms-C) of maize. The only copy of atp6 in cms-C, designated C-atp6, is a triple gene fusion product comprised of DNA sequences derived from atp9, atp6, and an unknown origin. Sequences of cDNAs revealed 19 C to U alterations resulting in 16 amino acid residue changes compared to the genomic sequence. The only C to U edit in the 39-nucleotide sequence similar to atp9 was comparable to a change in the complete atp9 mRNAs of Petunia, Oenothera, wheat, and sorghum. The 442 nucleotides of unknown origin were not edited. The 18 editing events within the atp6 homologous region were similar to those in the atp6 transcripts of sorghum. RNA editing in maize C-atp6 transcripts introduces a translational stop codon at the same position where it is created by editing in sorghum and Oenothera atp6 mRNAs and is already present in atp6 open reading frames of most other plant and non-plant organisms. Our results, along with other reports on editing in chimeric transcripts, indicate that RNA editing is not influenced by rearrangements but instead is sequence specific.
A gene (SCPEPCD1) encoding phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) was isolated from the C-4 monocot sugarcane (Saccharum hybrid var. H32-8560). SCPEPCD1 is ca. 6800 bp long, with 10 exons. The entire gene sequence from -1561 to 262 bp downstream of the putative poly(A) addition signal is reported. A low-level, essentially constitutive pattern of expression, amino acid sequence similarities to other 'housekeeping' PEPC enzymes, and the absence of DNA sequence elements conserved in the upstream region of maize and sorghum C-4-specific PEPC genes indicate that SCPEPCD1 encodes a housekeeping PEPC. Despite this, a motif proposed to act as a phosphorylation site in light-mediated activation of photosynthetic PEPC enzymes [10] is present in the SCPEPCD1 protein; evidence is presented for the presence of this site in other housekeeping PEPC proteins.
Sorghum mitochondrial atp6 occurs as one copy in the line Tx398 and as two copies in IS1112C. In IS1112C a repeated sequence diverged within the atp6 open reading frames. The two open reading frames (1137 bp, atp6-1; 1002 bp, atp6-2) share an identical conserved region of 756 bp but are flanked 5' by divergent extensions of 246 (atp6-1) or 381 bp (atp6-2). Tx398 carried only atp6-2. The breakpoint of the repeated sequence of the conserved core region corresponds to the amino acid sequence Ser-Pro-Leu-Asp, which is the amino terminus of the proteolytically processed yeast ATP6. The 5' extensions of atp6-1 and atp6-2 were similar to those of rice and maize, respectively. Each open reading is transcribed, however nuclear background influenced transcriptional patterns of atp6-2 in IS1112C.
The chloroplast psbD-psbC genes encode D2 and cp43, a reaction center protein and chlorophyll-binding antenna protein of photosystem II, respectively. We have previously shown that differential accumulation of light-induced psbD-psbC mRNAs in barley chloroplasts is due to transcription from a blue light-responsive promoter (LRP). It is hypothesized that the light-induced mRNAs help to maintain levels of the D2 polypeptide, which is photodamaged and degraded in illuminated plants. To determine if light-induced accumulation of psbD-psbC mRNAs was a conserved phenomenon in chloroplasts, the expression of psbD-psbC operons from five cereals (barley, wheat, rice, maize, and sorghum) and three dicot (tobacco, spinach, and pea) species was examined. Cereal and dicot psbD-psbC operons differ due to several DNA rearrangements that moved psbK-psbI proximal to psbD-psbC, allowing cotranscription of these genes and production of several unique transcripts in cereals. Despite differences in the structure and expression of the cereal and dicot psbD-psbC operons, the accumulation of light-induced psbD-psbC mRNAs was conserved in all species studied. An unusual feature of the light-induced mRNAs was the occurrence of 5' end microheterogeneity. The multiple 5' termini were mapped to several consecutive nucleotides (8 to 25 bp) within a highly conserved (61%) DNA region that represents the transcription initiation site for the mRNAs in barley and tobacco. The novel LRP differs in sequence from typical plastid promoters that have prokaryotic "-10" and "-35" elements and is centered 570 bp (cereals), 900 bp (tobacco, spinach), or 1100 bp (pea) upstream from the psbD translational start codon. We propose that physiological and gene regulatory demands of the chloroplast act as constraints that preserved the linkage of the LRP with psbD despite DNA inversions involving the psbD upstream region.
The sequences of the genes coding for a hydroxyproline-rich glycoprotein from two varieties of maize (Zea mays, Ac1503 and W22), a teosinte (Zea diploperennis) and sorghum (Sorghum vulgare) have been obtained and compared. Distinct patterns of variability have been observed along their sequences. The 500 bp region immediately upstream of the TATA box is highly conserved in the Zea species and contains stretches of sequences also found in the sorghum gene. Further upstream, significant rearrangements are observed, even between the two maize varieties. These observations allow definition of a 5' region, which is common to the four genes and is probably essential for their expression. The 3' end shows variability, mostly due to small duplications and single nucleotide substitutions. There is an intron present in this region showing a high degree of sequence conservation among the four genes analyzed. The coding region is the most divergent, but variability arises from duplications of fragments coding for similar protein blocks and from single nucleotide substitutions. These results indicate that a number of distinct mechanisms (probably point mutation, transposon insertion and excision, homologous recombination and unequal crossing-over) are active in the production of sequence variability in maize and related species. They are revealed in different parts of the gene, probably as the result of the different types of functional constraints acting on them, and of the specific nature of the sequence in each region.
To reduce damage by drift-levels of the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, we have engineered the 2,4-D resistance trait into cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.). The 2,4-D monooxygenase gene tfdA from Alcaligenes eutrophus plasmid pJP5 was isolated, modified and expressed in transgenic tobacco and cotton plants. Analyses of the transgenic progeny showed stable transmission of the chimeric tfdA gene and production of active 2,4-D monooxygenase. Cotton plants obtained were tolerant to 3 times the field level of 2,4-D used for wheat, corn, sorghum and pasture crops.
The greening of 5-d-old etiolated Sorghum seedlings was used to investigate regulatory mechanisms of plastid gene expression. Sorghum was selected for this study because leaves of etiolated seedlings do not expand in the dark and are kept within the coleoptile, thus leaf development is inhibited during etiolation. Only traces of thylakoid-membrane polypeptides and plastid transcripts could be detected in dark-grown seedlings, the accumulation of both protein and RNA was found to be strictly dependent upon light. Run-on transcription analysis demonstrated that the rise in plastid RNA levels was due to a light-induced increase in plastid transcriptional activity and not to altered RNA stability. Using an antiserum to the β subunit of plastid RNA polymerase, it could be demonstrated that the increase in plastid transcriptional activity was paralleled by rising levels of plastid RNA polymerase. It has to be concluded, therefore, that in greening Sorghum seedlings the expression of plastid genes is photoregulated at the transcriptional level.
Sequencing of sorghum mitochondrial atp6 cDNA clones revealed 19 C-to-U transcript editing events within a 756 bp-conserved core gene; three were silent and 16 resulted in 15 amino acid changes. Only one edit, which was silent, was found in the 381 bp amino-extension to the core gene. Eleven of the 15 changed amino acids were identical with or else represented conservative changes compared to yeast atp6. Editing of a CAA codon to TAA truncates the carboxy-terminus to a position identical to that of yeast. The frequency of editing at sites which change amino acids was very high in contrast to partial editing at silent, third base, sites.
We previously described the isolation and the nucleotide sequence of a nuclear gene from sorghum (NMDHI; 4.6 kb) encoding the NADP-malate dehydrogenase. Further analysis led us to identify a second homologous gene (NMDH II; 4.8 kb) located within the same 12.3 kb genomic clone (lambda LM17); these two genes are tandemly organized, in direct orientation. This second gene was entirely sequenced and comparison with the first gene showed that the positions on the 14 exons and 13 introns are conserved in both genes. The analysis of the genomic organization and copy number in the Sorghum vulgare genome revealed that there are no additional homologues and there is only one copy each of NMDH I and NMDH II. The isolation of two different cDNA clones in a previous work suggested that both genes were probably expressed. Analysis of specific mRNA accumulation during the greening process using synthetic oligonucleotide probes showed that the NMDH I gene is induced in the presence of light while the NMDH II gene seems to be constitutively expressed at low level.
In this study, a cDNA clone coding for sorghum leaf NADP-malate dehydrogenase [Crétin, C., Luchetta, P., Joly, C., Decottignies, P., Lepiniec, L., Gadal, P., Sallantin, M., Huet, J. C. & Pernollet, J. C. (1990) Eur. J. Biochem. 192, 299-303] was used either in the full-length form or in a shorter form deprived of the 5' end coding for the transit peptide. Both cDNA fragments were cloned into the expression vector pKK233-2 and the resulting constructions were used to transform E. coli cells. The bacterial cells which do not contain any NADP-dependent malate dehydrogenase before transformation were able to express the protein after transformation and induction, as detected both by activity measurements and by immunoblot. The recombinant proteins could be purified to homogeneity and their biochemical characteristics studied. They were identical to those of the enzyme isolated from corn or sorghum leaves, including the well known redox regulatory properties. The NADP-malate dehydrogenases derived from both constructions had a similar subunit size and the analysis of their N-terminal sequences revealed that E. coli cells were able to recognize the processing signal of the precursor polypeptide and to mature and assemble the protein in a manner similar to higher plants.
We have used antibodies directed against the two sucrose synthase (SS) isozymes, and the cDNA clones corresponding to the two nonallelic genes in maize to describe sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) SS genes and their expressions at protein and RNA levels. Western blot analyses have shown evidence of two SS isozymes, SS1 and SS2, in sorghum; these were similar, but not identical, to maize isozymes in size, charge, subunit composition, and epitope specificities against both monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies. Tissue-specific distributions of isozymes and genomic Southern hybridization data are consistent with a hypothesis that the SS1 and SS2 isozymes are encoded by two nonallelic genes, designated here as Sus1 and Sus2, respectively. Northern blot hybridizations on root RNAs showed gene-specific transcript patterns and, as in maize, the SS2-specific transcripts were slightly larger than the SS1-specific transcripts. Interestingly, no difference in the size of the SS1 and SS2 polypeptides was detected. Anaerobic induction led to significant elevations in steady-state levels of both SS1 and SS2 transcripts, but there was no detectable increase in the levels of the SS proteins. Thus, both the SS genes in sorghum were significantly regulated at the posttranscriptional level; whereas in maize, only one of the two SS genes was affected in this fashion. Another difference between maize and sorghum SS isozymes was in endosperm-specific polymerization among the SS subunits. Unlike maize endosperm where only the two SS homotetramers are seen, sorghum endosperm showed five SS isozymes attributable to a random copolymerization of SS1 and SS2 subunits, presumably due to a simultaneous expression of both genes in the endosperm cells. Physiological and molecular bases of these differences between these two crop plant species remains to be elucidated.
The expression of a Sorghum vulgäre gene encoding the phosphoenol-pyruvate carboxylase involved in C4 photosynthesis has been studied after introduction into tobacco. Northern blot analysis of poly(A) mRNA from green leaves demonstrated i) the efficiency of this monocot promoter, ii) the transcription of the sorghum phosphoenol-pyruvate carboxylase mRNA with the expected size (3.4kb). These results strongly suggested that introns of this monocot gene have been excised efficiently by the dicot cells. Moreover, the presence of the sorghum phosphoenol-pyruvate carboxylase mRNA was not detected in the roots of the transformed plants, suggesting that the 2.4kb 5'-region of the gene could be sufficient to confer the tissue specific expression.
Two different members of the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase(PEPC)-encoding multigene family (clones lambda CP21 and lambda CP46) have been isolated from a Sorghum vulgare lambda EMBL4 genomic library. The use of the 3'-noncoding regions to probe Northern blots of RNA from roots, etiolated leaves and green leaves indicated that lambda CP21 and lambda CP46 encode the C3- and C4-type leaf PEPC isoforms, respectively. The lambda CP21 clone is expressed in the three tissues and is not light-regulated, whereas lambda CP46 is only expressed in greening leaves. The nucleotide sequence of the 5'-flanking DNA (520 bp) has been determined for both genes. For lambda CP46, several direct repeats were located in this region with similarities to sequences found in other light-regulated genes, but not in lambda CP21. The deduced amino acid sequences of the two S. vulgare PEPC proteins are 75% identical.
The spatial pattern of expression for a maize gene encoding a hydroxyproline-rich glycoprotein (HRGP) was determined by in situ hybridization. During normal development of roots and leaves, the expression of the gene was transient and particularly high in regions initiating vascular elements and associated sclerenchyma. Its expression was also associated with the differentiation of vascular elements in a variety of other tissues. The gene encoded an HRGP that had been extracted from the cell walls of maize suspension culture cells and several other embryonic and post-embryonic tissues. The gene was present in one or two copies in different varieties of maize and in the related monocots teosinte and sorghum. A single gene was cloned from maize using a previously characterized HRGP cDNA clone [Stiefel et al. (1988). Plant Mol. Biol. 11, 483-493]. In addition to the coding sequences for the HRGP and an N-terminal signal sequence, the gene contained a single intron in the nontranslated 3' end.
We have investigated the photosystem-II organization in differentiating-bundle-sheath cells of the three malate dehydrogenase (oxaloacetate decarboxylating) (NADP+)-type C4 species maize, Sorghum and Pennisetum. Using a set of nine different antisera raised against individual subunits of photosystem-II, we demonstrate that photosystem-II components constitute a substantial part of the thylakoid membranes of young bundle-sheath chloroplasts. The abundance of subunits of the photosystem-II core, i.e. the 47-and 43-kDa chlorophyll-a-binding proteins, polypeptides D1 and D2, cytochrome b559, and the 34-kDa polypeptide, varies with the developmental state of the plant. However, the levels of the 23-kDa, 16-kDa and 10-kDa extrinsic polypeptides of the water-oxidation complex are drastically reduced in bundle-sheath chloroplasts of all three species analyzed, regardless of their state of differentiation. The reduction in protein abundance is also reflected at the transcript level: only traces of the nuclear-encoded mRNAs are found in differentiating bundle-sheath cells of Sorghum, suggesting that the transcription of these genes has been switched off. Our data are compatible with the idea that the water-oxidation complex is a prime site for initiating or maintaining the process leading to photosystem-II depletion during differentiation of bundle-sheath cells.
A genomic clone encoding the NADP-malate dehydrogenase precursor has been isolated from a Sorghum vulgare lambda EMBL4 library using a cDNA probe. The entire structure of this nuclear gene (4.6 kb) encoding the 429-amino acid precursor is reported, as well as 602 bp of the 5'-flanking and 695 bp of the 3'-flanking regions. The gene is interrupted by 13 introns from 79 to 495 bp in length. S1 nuclease mapping showed the S. vulgare gene transcript to contain an untranslated leader sequence of 44 nucleotides. In the 5'-flanking region, several short sequences similar to the consensus motifs involved in the light-regulation process of other plant genes were found.
The mechanisms underlying the photoregulation of the synthesis of sorghum leaf malate dehydrogenase (NADP) (EC 1.1.1.82) (NADP-MDH), a key enzyme in C4 photosynthesis, have been investigated. During the greening process a light-dependent increase in enzyme activity took place, accompanied by de novo synthesis of the protein. In vitro translation experiments showed that this chloroplastic protein is synthesized as a precursor (46 kDa) with a 'transit peptide' of about 2.5 kDa. A large increase in NADP-MDH-translatable RNAs was also observed during greening. We describe also the construction and characterization of a cDNA clone for NADP-MDH (pCM18A) in the expression vector lambda gt11. The use of this homologous probe demonstrated a light-dependent mRNA accumulation.
Monoclonal antibodies were produced against the G isozyme subunit of PEP carboxylase (PEPC) from Sorghum leaves by the hybridoma technique. More than 400 antibodies-producing hybridomas to PEPC were produced from the fusion of spleen cells from immunized mice with NS1 myeloma cells. By using an ELISA, three hybridomas (91-G, 83-G, 49-EG) were selected. Monoclonal antibodies were subsequently characterized in a Western experiment; Mabs 83-G and 91-G were found to be highly specific to the G isozyme whereas Mab 49-EG recognized both forms (E and G isozymes) of the enzyme. Addition of Mabs to the enzyme preparation did not modify its catalytic activity nor its activation by glycine. Use of these probes provided direct and definite evidence of the specific enhancing effect of light on the G form and on its corresponding mRNA.
Variation in mitochondrial genome organization and expression between male fertile and sterile nuclear-cytoplasmic combinations of sorghum has been examined. Cytoplasmic genotypes were classified into eleven groups on the basis of restriction endonuclease digestion of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and five groups on the basis of mitochondrial translation products. These cytoplasms were further characterized by hybridization of specific gene probes to Southern blots of EcoRI digested mtDNA, and identification of the fragment location of four mitochondrial genes. Variation was observed in the genomic location and copy number of the F1 ATPase α-subunit gene, as well as the genomic location and gene product of the cytochrome c oxidase subunit I gene. The effect of nuclear genotype on mitochondrial genome organization, expression and the presence of two linear plasmid-like mtDNA molecules was examined. Our results indicate that nuclear-mitochondrial interactions are required for regulation of mitochondrial gene expression. When a cytoplasm is transferred from its natural to a foreign nuclear background some changes in the products of in organello mitochondrial protein synthesis occur. In a number of cytoplasmic genotypes these changes correlate with the expression of cytoplasmic male sterile phenotype, suggesting a possible molecular basis for this mutation.
The mitochondrial gene (COXI) encoding cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) was isolated from two cytoplasmic genotypes of sorghum that synthesize different COI polypeptides. The Milo COI (Mr approximately 38,000) is encoded by a 530 codon structural gene sharing 98% homology with the corresponding maize gene. A variant COI observed in 9E cytoplasm (Mr approximately 42,000) is encoded by a 631 codon structural gene that diverges completely from the Milo COXI gene both 100 bp 5' to the presumed initiator methionine and within the 3' coding sequence. The 3' divergence results in a 101 C-terminal extension of the 9E COI that is not homologous to any known mitochondrial polypeptide. The novel 9E COXI, apparently arising from at least two rearrangements, affects transcription and gene product.
The bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene was expressed in protoplasts of three important graminaceous plant species after introduction of the gene by electroporation. Gene transfer occurred when high-voltage electric pulses were applied either directly or indirectly (without anode contact) to a solution containing plasmid DNA and protoplasts of rice, wheat, or sorghum. The indirect method was more rapid, resulted in higher protoplast viability, and was less subject to contamination than the direct-contact method. Gene expression of approximately equal magnitude resulted when the CAT gene was fused to either the 35S promoter of cauliflower mosaic virus or the copia long terminal repeat promoter of Drosophila. Together with recent advances in regeneration of callus and whole plants from protoplasts, this system makes it possible to study inheritance and expression of genes introduced into graminaceous monocotyledonous plants.
Susceptibility of sorghum to the fungal pathogen Periconia circinata and sensitivity to its host-specific toxin are determined by the semidominant allele at the pc locus. Pretreatment of susceptible seedlings with cycloheximide or cordycepin for 4 hr before treatment with the toxin protected the seedlings against toxin-induced loss of electrolytes and prevented development of disease symptoms. In vivo incorporation of [(3)H]leucine into protein was inhibited 91% and 47% by cycloheximide and cordycepin, respectively, but was not affected by the toxin. Gel electrophoresis and fluorography of in vivo-labeled proteins extracted from non-treated and toxin-treated root tips of near-isogenic susceptible and resistant lines revealed a selective increase in radioactivity of a protein band at M(r) 16,000 only in preparations from toxin-treated susceptible root tips. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis separated the M(r) 16,000 band into four proteins and confirmed the increased rate of synthesis. Products of in vitro translation were substantially enriched with the four M(r) 16,000 proteins when total RNA from toxin-treated susceptible root tips was used in a cell-free protein-synthesizing system. Because the proteins that increase are common to both susceptible and resistant genotypes, the toxin apparently interferes with a regulatory function, perhaps a function of the pc locus, and thereby alters gene expression in the susceptible genotype. The data suggest but do not establish that phytotoxicity results from the increased rate of synthesis of the specific proteins.
Feeding of sorghum with a high level of tannin (high-tannin sorghum) to rats caused changes in gene expression in parotid glands similar to isoproterenol treatment. Within 3 days the parotid glands were enlarged about 3-fold and a series of proline-rich proteins were increased about 12-fold. Unlike isoproterenol treatment, no changes were observed in the submandibular glands, and a Mr 220,000 glycoprotein in parotid glands was not induced. Amino acid analyses, electrophoretic patterns, and cell-free translations of mRNAs all confirmed that the proline-rich proteins induced by feeding high-tannin sorghum were identical to those induced by isoproterenol treatment. Binding curves for proline-rich proteins to tannins showed affinities 10-fold greater than bovine serum albumin and tannins.
Variation in sorghum mitochondrial translation products has enabled fertile (Kafir) cytoplasm to be distinguished from Milo cytoplasmic male sterile cytoplasm and from three alternative sources of cytoplasmic male sterile cytoplasm. Mitochondria from Milo cytoplasm synthesised a 65 000 mol. wt. polypeptide which was not synthesised by those from Kafir cytoplasm. In the cytoplasmic male sterile combination of Kafir nucleus in Milo cytoplasm synthesis of this polypeptide was dramatically increased. Mitochondria from two cytoplasmic male sterile lines (Kafir nucleus in IS1112 cytoplasm and Yellow Feterita nucleus in M35-1 cytoplasm) did not synthesise the 65 000 mol. wt. polypeptide but synthesised additional high molecular weight polypeptides (from 54 000 to 82 000 mol. wt.), the major one being 82 000. Mitochondria from cytoplasm IS1112 were also distinguished by synthesis of an additional 12 000 mol. wt. polypeptide. Mitochondria from the cytoplasmic male sterile line Martin nucleus in 9E cytoplasm synthesised an additional 42 000 mol. wt. polypeptide but did not synthesise a 38 000 mol. wt. polypeptide detected in all other cytoplasms. Immunoprecipitation of mitochondrial translation products with antiserum raised against subunit I of yeast cytochrome oxidase tentatively identified the 38 000 mol. wt. polypeptide as subunit I of sorghum cytochrome oxidase. The 42 000 mol. wt. polypeptide was also immuno-precipitated by this antiserum and thus is probably an altered form of cytochrome oxidase subunit I.Analysis of native mitochondrial DNA by agarose gel electrophoresis revealed the presence of two 'plasmid-like' DNA species of molecular weight 5.3 and 5.7 kb in the cytoplasmic male sterile lines Kafir nucleus in cytoplasm IS1112 and Yellow Feterita nucleus in M35-1 cytoplasm. Thus there is a positive correlation between the synthesis of the 82 000 mol. wt. polypeptide and the presence of the additional DNA species.
A light-dependent in vitro protein-synthesizing system from isolated mesophyll chloroplasts of Sorghum vulgare was characterized. Preincubation of chloroplasts in light at 25 degrees C for 1 h depleted the endogenous templates completely; such preincubated chloroplasts translated exogenously added homologous, heterologous, and synthetic templates efficiently. The fidelity of the system in translating added templates was tested with specific templates. Substantive evidence for the fidelity of the system was obtained by immunological analysis of the specific products, e.g. chloroplast coupling Factor I obtained by the translation of S. vulgare leaf cellular and chloroplast RNAs. The efficiency of the system in translating the exogenous mRNA was also quite high. As the endogenous mRNA was totally depleted during preincubation, and as the system was nonspecific for the source of RNA for translation, these chloroplasts can serve as a simple alternative system for assaying the role of diverse template RNAs.
Chloroplast and whole leaf cell RNA from Vigna sinensis, a C3 plant were used as exogenous templates for translation in a cell-free light-dependent system of isolated chloroplasts from Sorghum vulgare, a C4-type plant. Analysis of immunoprecipitates of the translated products with the total cellular RNA on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gels revealed the synthesis of both the subunits of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase. Similar analysis of the product translated with the RNA from Vigna chloroplasts, indicated the synthesis of only the large subunit of the carboxylase. Apparently the chloroplast protein synthetic machinery is capable of translating the mRNA for the smaller subunit of this protein as well, which is known to be translated in the cytoplasmic ribosomal system. Sufficient quantities of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase were synthesised in vitro in the preincubated chloroplast system with the whole cell RNA from the C3 plant to assay the ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate-dependent carboxylation. The newly synthesised protein in the cell-free system is identical in many ways to the native enzyme including the Mg2+ concentration-dependent shift in pH optima towards neutral side. It is specifically inhibited by anti-native ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate.
The TCP gene family encodes plant-specific transcription factors that regulate plant growth, development, and stress responses. Although this gene family has been widely studied in various species, its function in mung bean (
Mungbean (Vigna radiata L.) is one of the most important yet genomically under-researched leguminous food crop. Its productivity is low due to the complex nature of yield realization, which is regulated by various yield-contributing traits. Thus, understanding the genetic basis of these traits is essential for developing an ideal genotype with high yield. In this study, mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) was conducted for six yield-contributing traits using a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population (166 number), developed by crossing two contrasting genotypes (Pusa Baisakhi × PMR-1). The genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) of RILs was used to construct the genetic map using 1347 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs). The QTL mapping using multiple interval mapping (MIM) and composite interval mapping (CIM) has identified 17 yield contributing QTLs of which, 4 for number of leaves/plant (NL), 3 for plant height (PH), 2 for SPAD value, 3 for 100 seed weight (SW), 2 for number of pods/plant (NP), and 3 for total grain yield (GY). The Logarithm of Odds (LOD) scores for these QTLs ranged from ~ 3-9, while phenotypic variance explained (PVE) ranged from ~ 9-24%. Several candidate genes with mRNA expression and protein-altering mutations were identified as having a direct role in key processes like growth (LOC106756212, LOC106776425, LOC106777991), flowering (LOC106777903, LOC106768860), metabolism (LOC106757749, LOC106758189), etc. The candidate genes are validated through digital gene expression analysis. In addition, Insertion-Deletion (InDel) markers were also developed for the identified QTLs which hold broad applications for the improvement of yield-related traits in mungbean.
Mungbean is one of the most economically important grain legume crops in Asia. Functional genomics studies in mungbean are necessary to understand the molecular mechanisms behind agronomic traits, to advance the crop improvement. However, this progress is significantly impeded by the absence of effective and extensive genetic analysis tools. Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated hairy root transformation has become a powerful tool for studying gene function and an efficient alternative for investigating root-specific interactions and processes in different species, due to its quick and simple methodology. Agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation, however, is known to be difficult in legumes, especially in mungbean. In this report, we developed an Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated mungbean transformation system using both in-vitro and ex-vitro approaches, with RUBY employed as a reporter gene. We optimized various parameters, including mungbean genotypes, explant age, optical density of the bacterial culture, co-cultivation medium, and acetosyringone concentration. Our findings indicated that in-vitro transformation was more efficient than ex-vitro in terms of hairy root induction percentage and the proportion of transformed hairy roots expressing the RUBY reporter gene. However, the ex-vitro transformation technique was faster and less complex than the in-vitro method. The highest transformation efficiency for RUBY expression was achieved using 5-day-old cotyledonary nodal explants of cv. K-851, inoculated for 30 min with A4 Agrobacterium cells resuspended in full-strength MS medium at an OD₆₀₀ of 0.5 and supplemented with 100 µM acetosyringone. A total of 60 composite plants were generated and evaluated through PCR, resulting in a transformation efficiency of 6.13%. These optimized parameters also led to the highest percentage of RUBY expression using the two-step ex-vitro hairy root transformation method. We have developed a simple, rapid, low-cost, and labor-efficient Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated mungbean transformation protocol using both in-vitro and ex-vitro approaches, with RUBY as a reporter gene. This method enables the generation of composite mungbean plants that are easier to handle, exhibit higher transformation efficiency, and can be effectively used for root specific functional genomics studies. We expect this technology to be widely adopted for investigating root-related processes in mungbean and other plant species.
Cadmium is one of the most toxic heavy metal pollutants in the world, seriously affecting crop growth and human health. 2,4-Epibrassinolide (BRs) has been proven to promote plant growth, enhance abiotic stress resistance and improve crop quality and yield. In this study, adzuki bean (V. angularis) cultivar 'Zhen Zhuhong' was grown hydroponically in 1/2 Hoagland nutrient solution with 0, 1, and 2 mg L
The bean flower thrips, Megalurothrips usitatus (Bagnall), has caused significant damage to leguminous crops in the Asian tropics and established populations in North America. Ineffective pest control has been reported in multiple regions, raising concerns about food safety risks due to improper insecticide use. To evaluate insecticide susceptibility and the role of detoxification enzyme involvement, resistance monitoring and enzyme activity assays were conducted. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) techniques validated key gene functions. Results showed that the XW population was resistant to five insecticides, with resistance ratios ranging from 7.17 to 42.90 compared to the reference population. The NJ and YZ populations showed resistance to two and one insecticide, respectively, while the HP population was most susceptible. Elevated cytochrome P450s (CYP450), UDP-glycosyltransferases, and acetylcholinesterases activities were observed in the YZ population. Three CYP450 genes positively correlated with CYP450 activity. Carboxylesterases (CarE) activity was the highest in the XW population, with MusiPT_006325 positively correlated and MusiPT_006095/MusiPT_003750 negatively correlated with CarE activity. Glutathione-S-transferase activity was the highest in the HP population. WGCNA revealed positive correlations between MEblue, MEturquoise, and MEbrown modules and acetamiprid/ novaluron median lethal concentration (LC
The developmental control of plant reproduction is often related to the activity of methylation-dependent pathways that play an essential role in genome integrity and the transgenerational establishment of epigenetic marks. Cytogenetic analysis and in situ patterns of protein expression are crucial to accurately establish the function and mode of action of genes involved in the epigenetic control of female meiosis and gametogenesis. Here, we describe a whole mount propidium iodine staining and immunolocalization procedures to study the role of proteins involved in RNA-directed DNA methylation during the development of ovules in Vigna unguiculata (cowpea). The procedure can be easily adapted to develop ovules of other legumes such as common bean and scarlet runner bean.
Subtilisin-like serine proteases (SBTs) are serine proteolytic enzymes that play various roles in plant growth, function and stress responses. Vigna glabrescens, a wild relative of mungbean known to be a potential donor of photo- and thermoperiod insensitivity, was characterized for thermotolerance through reproductive biology and gene expression profiling. Whole-genome sequencing of this species has not yet been performed; hence, genome-wide analysis of this species has not been explored. In the present study, a systematic analysis of SBT-encoding genes in the V. radiata (Vradi_SBT) genome was conducted, with a focus on their response during flower development under different temperature regimes, such as optimum temperature, heat and cold stresses, in Vigna radiata and a wild relative, Vigna glabrescens. Thirty-eight Vradi_SBT genes were identified in the V. radiata genome and were further grouped into five distinct subgroups. The key domain of the SBT peptidase, "peptidase_S8_53," was found in all 38 Vradi_SBT proteins, while 28 of them contained the "peptidase_S8" domain. Additionally, 30 of these proteins contained a maximum of 10 motifs. A total of 22 orthologous genes were identified in Arabidopsis thaliana, whereas paralogous gene pairs were detected as tandemly duplicated genes with V. unguiculata. Cis-acting element analysis revealed that these genes presented more stress-responsive promoter sequences than the other promoters. Furthermore, Vradi_SBT-1.9 was found significantly upregulated under both high- and low-temperature stresses. This study provides insights into SBT-encoding genes and their possible role in flower development and thermotolerance in Vigna species.
Mungbean ( Here, we screened six genotypes with consistently high and low content of major secondary metabolites (gallic acid, chlorogenic acid, neo-chlorogenic acid, genistin, formononetin, catechin, syringic acid, and resveratrol) across environmental replicates. Transcriptome data obtained from the individual genotypes were pooled into two groups: high and low levels of secondary metabolites. Of the 200 differentially expressed genes identified using stringent criteria, 23 were annotated in the secondary metabolite pathway. By combining the results of the secondary metabolite and transcriptome data, we identified six key genes encoding four enzymes ( These results provide information on the common genetic factors involved in the production of secondary metabolites, which can improve the nutritional value of mungbeans and contribute to the development of elite mungbean cultivars.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) rust, caused by the fungus Uromyces vignae, is an important disease affecting adzuki bean yield and quality. Previously, several NAC transcription factors (TFs) were induced by rust infection in a resistant adzuki bean variety, suggesting that NAC TF members may play important roles in rust resistance. To further explore the functions of NAC TFs in rust resistance and to provide a reference for resistant varietal breeding, 101 NAC TFs were identified from the adzuki bean genome. The synteny analysis revealed 25 pairs of VaNACs in the genome, which exhibited whole-genome/segmental duplication. Based on the phylogenetic relationships and conserved motif characteristics, the NAC TFs of V. angularis can be divided into 16 subfamilies. Previous transcriptome data showed that nine VaNACs are significantly induced by rust infection. Here, a cis-acting element analysis of these nine genes revealed that most contain hormone responsive elements, such as abscisic acid and methyl jasmonate (MeJA). The expression levels of these nine VaNACs were dynamically regulated in response to exogenous MeJA treatment, as revealed by quantitative real-time PCR analysis. Among them, seven VaNACs exhibited significantly upregulated expression, peaking at 12 h post treatment (hpt) and remaining significantly higher than that of the untreated control group for 48 hpt. These results suggest that these VaNACs are responsive to MeJA signaling and may play roles in the early and sustained transcriptional regulation of stress-related pathways. The exogenous MeJA decreased rust severity on adzuki bean leaves by 45.68%. Additionally, the expression levels of these nine genes in adzuki bean leaves in response to rust infection after pretreatment with MeJA were investigated. The expression of VaNAC002 rapidly peaked at 24 h post inoculation (hpi) and remained significantly higher than the control from 120 to 192 hpi. Subsequently, transient overexpression of VaNAC002 significantly enhanced the resistance of tobacco to Botrytis cinerea, indicating that VaNAC002 positively regulates plant disease resistance. These findings suggest that adzuki bean NAC family members may play important roles in disease resistance through JA signaling, with VaNAC002 having a positive regulatory role in plant immunity.
Soil salinity is one of the most severe impacts of climate change, negatively affecting plant growth and development. Seed germination and seedling emergence are among the most critical stages susceptible to salt stress, making it important to explore them to identify the most resilient accessions for crop yield improvement. Cowpea (
The transition from vegetative to floral development is a critical process regulated by a variety of complex internal and external factors. This study aims to characterize the Flowering Locus D (FLD) gene in relation to the floral induction pathway and examine its expression profiles under different photoperiodic conditions in Indian bean (Lablab purpureus (L.) Sweet). The LprFLD gene was PCR-amplified and sequenced using gene-specific primers for both photosensitive (GNIB-22, GP-189) and photoinsensitive (GNIB-21) varieties of Indian bean. Exon prediction, phylogenetic analysis, and in silico domain prediction were performed, followed by gene expression analysis using qRT-PCR for contrasting phenotypes. The complete LprFLD gene sequence was characterized, containing five exons and showing significant similarity to GmFLD and VuFLD. Phylogenetic analysis of FLD homologs from 27 taxa revealed the closest evolutionary relationships among members of the Phaseoleae tribe, including Lablab purpureus, Vignaumbellata, Vigna angularis, Vignaradiata, Vigna unguiculata, Phaseolus vulgaris, Glycine max, Glycinesoja, and Cajanus cajan. In silico domain prediction identified two conserved domains, SWIRM and amino oxidase, in the FLD homologs of Indian bean, soybean, cowpea, Arabidopsis and rice. Gene expression analysis showed that the relative expression of LprFLD in trifoliate leaves corresponded with flowering in both photosensitive and photoinsensitive genotypes under long-day conditions. Overall, the expression level of LprFLD was lower in trifoliate leaves and shoot tips. This is the first report on the characterization of the LprFLD locus in Indian bean. Phylogenetic analysis confirmed its close evolutionary relationship with other Phaseoleae species. qRT-PCR results suggest that the elevated expression of LprFLD in trifoliate leaves coincides with flowering time in both photosensitive and photoinsensitive genotypes under long-day conditions, indicating that other loci may also regulate floral transition under varying photoperiods in Indian bean.
n-Propyl gallate (PG) is a phenolic compound that influences enzymatic processes, mostly involving AOX, PTOX, LOX, POD, and PPO. Here, analyses of different PG concentrations (1, 2.5, and 5 mM) during cowpea seed germination at 16, 32, and 48h showed that 2.5 mM PG partially inhibited seed germination at 16 and/or 32h, but by 48h the germination re-established. Thus, this PG concentration was chosen to study the molecular and biochemical mechanisms linked to the PG inhibitory effects and germination recovery. PG inhibition was related to lower H
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is an important protein source in Sub-Saharan Africa. Optimizing resilience and productivity through genetic engineering in cowpea has been slow due in part to a lack of defined species-specific regulatory elements and difficulty testing gene function within the native system. In many plant species, Agrobacterium-mediated transient gene expression is widely used to validate constructs before investing in transgenic lines, but its implementation in legumes has been challenging. In this study, we optimized an in planta agroinfiltration assay in trifoliate cowpea leaves using a betalain reporter. To demonstrate the "intact plant" aspect of this system, we used this assay to characterize drought-inducible promoters by challenging cowpea plants with drought stress. Subsequently, to identify and broaden the pool of native promoters known in cowpea, we developed a user-friendly web application, CowPEAsy, allowing users to interrogate gene expression from our canopy-level, developmental-series RNA-Seq data set. Finally, using CowPEAsy, we identified six promoters that showed constitutive expression across all conditions and verified these promoters with our transient system. This work provides an in vivo platform for preliminary validation of regulatory elements in cowpea and other legumes and enhances current genetic resources by identifying a suite of physiologically relevant promoters of varying strengths.
The extent of viral infection significantly shapes disease susceptibility. Yellow mosaic disease induced by the begomovirus pathogen mungbean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV), revealed varying infection levels in both compatible and incompatible interactions across three distinct The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-025-01547-9.
Long-term cadmium (Cd) exposure inhibits plant growth and development, reduces crop yield and quality, and threatens food security. Exploring the Cd tolerance mechanisms and safe production of crops in Cd-contaminated environment has become a worldwide concern. In this study, mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) cultivar Sulu (SL) and its three mutant lines (20#, 09#, and 06#) were used to compare the difference in Cd absorption, accumulation, and tolerance through pot and field experiments. 20#, 09#, and 06# are Cd-tolerant germplasms of mung bean but exist in different Cd tolerance mechanisms, 20# exhibited the lowest Cd absorption capacity, 09# possessed lower Cd translocation capacity, while 06# accumulated more Cd in protoplasts. Mung bean germplasms with higher Cd tolerance generally showed lower absorption capacity and intracellular accumulation of Cd. Besides, Cd accumulation in mung bean seeds is mainly depended on the absorption and translocation of Cd in roots and the Cd concentration in leaves, exogenous Mn supply inhibited the Cd
Vigna marina (Barm.) Merr. is adapted to tropical marine beaches and has an outstanding tolerance to salt stress. Given there are growing demands for cultivating crops in saline soil or with saline water, it is important to understand how halophytic species are adapted to the saline environments. Here we revealed by positron-emitting tracer imaging system (PETIS) that V. marina actively excretes sodium from the root during the light period but not the dark period. The following whole genome sequencing accompanied with forward genetic study identified a QTL region harbouring SOS1, encoding plasma membrane Na
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a heterogeneous disease, with MM patients experiencing different clinical outcomes depending on the disease's biological features. Novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of MM have led to the introduction of sophisticated drugs, which dramatically improved patient treatment and survival. To date, young patients with newly diagnosed MM could experience a median overall survival (OS) of 10 years. Nevertheless, a small proportion of patients still undergoes early disease progression and death. Indeed, cases defined as ultra-high-risk MM (uHRMM) and high-risk MM (HRMM) are destined for a worse outcome, with an OS of 2-3 and 3-5 years, respectively. In this regard, current risk stratification systems failed to identify this subset of patients better. The application of existing risk models has led to the identification of extremely heterogeneous categories of patients, and they have not taken into account biological and clinical differences. The concept of HRMM was initially formalised in 2015. Since then, a great effort has been made to identify those parameters whose presence pone MM patients at higher risk of developing an early relapse. The simultaneous presence of 2 or more unfavourable cytogenetic abnormalities, the identification of an extramedullary disease or the detection of circulating plasma cells, as well as high-risk gene expression profiling (GEP) signature, have shown to be well related to a worse outcome and are going to be incorporated into new prognostic systems. The introduction of the Individualised Risk Model for Multiple Myeloma (IRMMa) marks a significant advancement in the management of HRMM by integrating genomic and clinical data to tailor treatment strategies. This model demonstrates improved prognostic accuracy compared to traditional staging systems and emphasises the importance of personalised treatment approaches. The implementation of these advanced tools is essential for enhancing precision medicine in MM and improving outcomes for patients in high-risk categories.
Polyphenols represent a new strategy of dietary intervention for heat stress regulation. The metabolic and genetic effects of three heat stress-regulated mung bean polyphenols on mouse small intestinal epithelial Mode-k cells were investigated by metabolomics-transcriptomics correlation analysis at different heat stress levels. Lipid metabolism, energy metabolism, and nervous system pathways were the key metabolic regulatory pathways. Under the heat stresses of 39 °C, 41 °C, and 43 °C, the key pathways regulated by mung bean polyphenols on intestinal epithelial Mode-k cells were choline metabolism, pyrimidine metabolism, and the retrograde endorphin signalling pathway in cancer, respectively. FoxO, Rap1, and PI3K-Akt signalling pathways were the key environmental regulatory signalling pathways. Mung bean polyphenols can alleviate heat stress-induced cells at 39 °C by inhibiting cell apoptosis and promoting lipid and amino acid accumulation. Mung bean polyphenols can alleviate the threat of cell death caused by heat stress at 41 °C by regulating heat shock proteins, inhibiting mitochondrial function and some nerve disease-related genes. The threat of cell death by heat stress at 43 °C can be alleviated by regulating nerve-related genes. This study confirmed that mung bean polyphenols can regulate heat stress. The results provide a reference for analysing the mechanism of dietary polyphenol regulating heat stress.
Several mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) cultivars are susceptible to Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by Cercospora canescens Ellis & Martin, and it is necessary to explore resistance sources and understand resistance mechanisms. However, the CLS resistance mechanisms have not yet been explored. The response to CLS revealed significantly different disease severity scores in both mungbean genotypes. Hypersensitive response (HR) started to appear at 2 days after inoculation (DAI) in SUPER5 but was never observed in CN84-1. SUPER5 exhibited fewer and smaller lesions than CN84-1 during CLS infection, resulting in SUPER5 being resistant while CN84-1 was susceptible to CLS. In this study, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis was used to unravel the mechanisms of resistance to CLS in a resistant line (SUPER5) and a susceptible variety (CN84-1) upon CLS infection. A total of 9510 DEGs including 4615 up-regulated and 4895 down-regulated genes were revealed. Of these 3242 and 1027 genes were uniquely up-regulated only in the SUPER5 and CN84-1, respectively, while 2902 and 734 genes were down-regulated only in SUPER5 and CN84-1, respectively. The 843 DEGs were enriched in biological processes mainly associated with plant defense responses, defense response to fungus, protein phosphorylation and response to chitin in Gene Ontology (GO) terms analysis. KEGG pathway analysis showed that these genes were represented in plant-pathogen interaction, the MAPK signaling pathway, plant hormone signal transduction, and cell wall component biosynthesis in response to the CLS infection specifically in SUPER5. In addition, the qRT-PCR was used to analyze the expression pattern of 22 candidate DEGs belonging to pathogenesis related (PR) proteins, resistance (R) proteins, transcription factors, hypersensitive response (HR), and the essential genes involved in cell wall activity during CLS-infected V. radiata. It was found that the expression of these genes was consistent with the RNA-seq analysis, showing a highly significant correlation with a coefficient of 0.7163 (p < 0.01). The co-expression network illustrated the interactions among these genes, which were involved in multiple functions related to the defense response. Interestingly, the ones encoding PR-2, thaumatin, peroxidase, defensin, RPM1, pectinesterase, chalcone synthase, auxin efflux carrier, and transcription factors (Pti1, Pti5, Pti6 and WRKY40) were highly significantly up-regulated in SUPER5 but not in CN84-1 upon CLS infection, suggesting that they might be involved in the CLS resistance mechanisms. Moreover, SUPER5 was found to have higher β-1,3-glucanase and chitinase activity levels than CN84-1. Our findings contribute to an understanding of the CLS resistance mechanisms and may advocate the development of more effective disease management approaches.
Soil salinization and ground water depletion are increasingly constraining crop production. Identifying useful mechanisms of salt tolerance is an important step toward the development of salt-tolerant crops. Of particular interest are mechanisms that are present in crop wild relatives, as they may have greater stress tolerance than crop species. The coastal species Vigna marina is one of the promising plant resources for salt tolerance. Vigna luteola is another wild species with diverse habitats, including seaside and riverbank, hereafter V. luteola-beach and V. luteola-river, respectively. By comparative transcriptome and histological analyses, this study elucidated one important aspect of how V. marina achieves an extraordinary ability to suppress Na+ uptake. Under salt stress, V. marina specifically upregulated genes involved in Casparian strip formation and developed a multi-layered lignified apoplastic barrier around endodermis, whereas V. luteola-beach formed typical, band-like Casparian strips and V. luteola-river formed only spot-like Casparian strips. As such, the ability of developing apoplastic barrier strongly correlated with those of suppressing Na+ uptake. The disruption of lignified barrier led to a dramatic increase of Na+ allocation to the shoot in V. marina, which was manifested in leaf etiolation and burning. Interestingly, despite the presence of reinforced apoplastic barrier, V. marina maintained the transport of essential ions including K+, Mg2+, and Ca2+. This study shows that the multi-layered Casparian strip-like structure plays an important role in salt tolerance.
Blackgram is an important short-duration grain legume, but its yield is highly affected by various stresses. Among biotic stresses, yellow mosaic disease (YMD) is known as a devastating disease that leads to 100% yield loss under severe conditions. The cultivated lines possess resistance, but exploring more diverse sources of resistance may be useful for pyramiding to improve the durability of said resistance. Some wild
Fusarium oxysporum disrupts redox homeostasis in Vigna mungo, likely by interfering with salicylic acid signaling, which can be ameliorated by boosting PAL and its related pathways via salicylic acid pretreatment. Fusarium oxysporum, a widespread soil-borne fungus, significantly threatens global crops. This study centers on elucidating the infection strategies employed by F. oxysporum against a new and underexplored host Vigna mungo, a leguminous crop of high agronomic value, and the defense mechanisms that can be activated against the infection, aiming to uncover how these responses can be leveraged to develop potential countermeasures. Building on prior work demonstrating the in vitro antifungal efficacy of phytohormones, including salicylic acid (SA), this study further investigates SA pretreatment at 100 µM, which previously reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) and improved germination under Fusarium stress. Through a comprehensive analysis of V. mungo plants pretreated with SA and subjected to F. oxysporum infection, we observed that fungal exposure reduced growth, chlorophyll content, and levels of proteins, phenolics and flavonoids, while increasing stress markers and antioxidant activity. SA pretreatment mitigated these effects by boosting antioxidant molecules and activating the phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) pathway, thereby enhancing endogenous SA and ROS scavenging. Furthermore, qRT-PCR analysis confirmed SA-mediated upregulation of antioxidant (catalase and peroxidase), fungal stress response genes ((pathogenesis-related gene 4 (PR4) and defensin (DEF)) and SA synthesis and regulator genes (PAL and WRKY70) involved in plant systemic resistance, while LC-MS data revealed an altered metabolic profile with increased phytoalexins and antioxidants synthesis. Overall, SA pretreatment confers resistance against F. oxysporum in V. mungo by modulating endogenous SA and metabolic profile to activate key defense pathways and redox homeostasis, highlighting its potential in plant defense strategies and reinforcing our proposed model of SA action.
Cold stress affects the growth, development, and yield of asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata subsp. sesquipedalis). Mediator (MED) complex subunits regulate the cold tolerance of asparagus bean, but the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. Here, VunMED2 positively responds to cold stress of asparagus beans. Under cold acclimation and freezing treatment, the survival rate, ROS scavenging activity, and expression levels of VunMED2 were increased in VunMED2 transgenic plants. Natural variation in the promoter of VunMED2 in two different cold-tolerant asparagus beans was observed. Under cold stress, the expression of the GUS reporter gene was higher in cold-tolerant plants than in cold-sensitive plants, and the expression of the GUS reporter gene was tissue-specific. VunHY5 positively influenced the expression of VunMED2 by binding to the E-box motif, and the transcriptional activation of the promoter was stronger in the cold-tolerant variety than in cold-sensitive plants. VunHY5 overexpression improved plant freezing resistance by increasing the antioxidant capacity and expression of dehydrin genes. VunHY5 and VunMED2 play a synergistic role in binding to the G-box/ABRE motif and transcriptionally activating the expression of VunERD14. VunERD14 complemented the med2 mutant, which could positively respond to plant freezing resistance by reducing membrane lipid peroxidation and improving the antioxidant capacity. Therefore, the VunHY5-VunERD14 module and the VunHY5-VunMED2-VunERD14 positive cascade effect are involved in the cold signal transduction in asparagus bean. Our findings have implications for the breeding of asparagus bean varieties with improved cold tolerance.
Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) is a crucial mitochondrial enzyme in the electron transport chain of plants, implicated in energy production and stress responses. Despite its importance, the function of COX in leguminous plants, especially under heavy metal stress like cadmium (Cd), remains understudied. In this study, COX genes (COX s) were identified based on the genome annotation file in mung bean (Vigna radiata (Linn.) R. Wilczek), and the gene structure, physicochemical properties and systematic relationships of the relevant amino acid sequences were analyzed by using bioinformatics method. The effects of Cd on the transcription levels and activities of COX in mung bean roots, stems, and leaves were detected to understand the mechanism of COX in mung bean in response to cadmium (Cd) stress. Transcriptome sequencing revealed tissue-specific expression with roots showed the highest levels. Cd stress significantly altered the expression and activity of VrCOXs, particularly in roots and stems, with varied responses among different genes. The differential response of VrCOX s to Cd stress indicates a role in the plant stress tolerance mechanism. The study provides insights into the function of COXs in legumes and a foundation for further research into Cd tolerance mechanisms, which could be vital for enhancing legume production and ensuring food safety in contaminated environments.
Plants activate induced defenses through the recognition of molecular patterns. Like pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), herbivore-associated molecular patterns (HAMPs) can be recognized by cell surface pattern recognition receptors leading to defensive transcriptional changes in host plants. Herbivore-induced defensive outputs are regulated by the circadian clock, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. To investigate how the plant circadian clock regulates transcriptional reprogramming of a specific HAMP-induced pathway, we characterized the daytime and nighttime transcriptional response to caterpillar-derived In11 peptide, in the legume crop cowpea (
Oxidosqualene cyclases (OSCs) are important regulatory enzymes involved in cyclization reactions of 2, 3-oxidosqualene to form triterpenes and sterols. This study presents the identification and characterization of three OSC genes, a β - amyrin synthase (VuβAS), a lupeol synthase (VuLUS) and a cycloartenol synthase (VuCAS) in Vigna unguiculata, an edible leguminous plant with high nutritional and nutraceutical value. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the VuβAS, VuLUS and VuCAS were clustered within the clades of previously characterized β - amyrin synthases, lupeol synthases and cycloartenol synthases. Heterologous expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Gas Chromatography - Mass Spectrometry (GC - MS) analysis in different plant stages confirmed their specific functions. VuβAS showed higher expression in roots from early germinating seedlings to older plants (4-day to 28-day), while VuLUS expression levels were higher in the roots of older plants only (14-day to 28-day). VuCAS expression was increased in all the tissues of 4-day seedlings, with a peak in stem and leaves and a lower accumulation in radicles. These findings revealed the presence and function of OSC genes in V. unguiculata, and future research could lead to the discovery of promising biologically active compounds.
Plant protease inhibitors (PI's) inhibit the activity of gut proteases and thus provide resistance against insect attack. Previously we have published first report on cloning and characterization of a novel Bowman-Birk protease inhibitor gene (RbTI) from ricebean (Vigna umbellata). In this study, the RbTI gene was further characterized and validated as a potential candidate for transferring insect resistance in economically important crops. We have successfully generated transgenic tobacco plants expressing RbTI gene constitutively under CaMV35S promoter using Agrobacterium transformation. Genomic PCR and GUS analysis confirmed the successful integration of RbTI gene into tobacco plant genome. qRT-PCR analysis revealed highest RbTI gene expression in transformed tobacco leaves nearing maturity. Feeding of transformed tobacco leaf tissue showed prominent effect on larval mortality throughout the larval growth stages mainly during first three days of feeding. For functional analysis of RbTI gene, we estimated the inhibitory activity of protein extracts from normal and transformed tobacco plants against gut proteases of Spodoptera litura and H. armigera larval instars. Maximum inhibition of trypsin (82.42% and 73.25%) and chymotrypsin (69.50% and 60.64%) enzymes was recorded at early larval stages of both insects. The results of this study validated the future use of RbTI gene from ricebean legume as a potential candidate for transferring insect resistance in economically important crops. Insight, innovation, integration: Present study was conducted with the aim to utilize the state of art biotechnological techniques for transferring key pest resistant genes from underutilized promising crop ricebean. The tobacco plant has been utilized as modern plant for proof of concept where a protease inhibitor gene from Ricebean has been transferred to tobacco plant which induced larval mortality within first three days of feeding at all larval developmental stages. The biochemical assays on mid-gut total protein extract showed that the transgenic tobacco leaves have inhibiting effect on trypsin and chymotrypsin enzymes of insect which is otherwise required for digestion of food by them. Hence, we provide a novel gene that could be utilized for pest resistance in other crops different developmental stages.
Selenium (Se) and zinc (Zn) deficiencies have become serious global food security and public health problems. Biofortification through foliar fertilizer is a nonspecific, low-tech, and cost-effective strategy. Se and Zn have overlapping physiological roles and interacting relationships in plants. Mung bean is superior for Se enrichment and an excellent Zn carrier. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the interaction between Se and Zn in the mung bean remains unclear. Herein, Se and Zn accumulation, antioxidant activities, physiological determination, and transcriptomic analysis were performed under both Se and Zn treatments. Common essential roles of Se and Zn in mung bean were reflected by the comprehensively altered ten physiological indexes under both Se2 (24 g·ha
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L.), a widely cultivated legume, belongs to the Fabaceae family's Papilionoideae subfamily. Although Phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein (PEBP) genes have been identified in several plant species, their presence and function in mung bean remain largely unexplored. In this study, we identified seven VrPEBP genes from mung bean and classified them into four clades: FT, MFT, TFL and FT-like. Cis-regulatory element analysis revealed that VrPEBP genes may play a role in light, hormone, and stress responses. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis indicated that VrPEBPs were constitutively expressed in various tissues. However, tissue-specific expression patterns were observed among VrPEBP genes. Under short-day (SD) conditions, VrFT1 and VrMFT1 exhibited significantly higher expression levels than under long-day (LD) conditions at 8 and 4 h, respectively. Conversely, VrTFL2 and VrTFL3 showed significantly higher expression levels under LD conditions compared to SD conditions at 8 and 12 h, respectively. The varied expression patterns of these genes under different photoperiod suggest their potential involvement in the photoperiodic regulation of flowering in mung bean. Additionally, phenotypic analysis of transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing VrFT1 revealed higher expression levels under SD conditions and predicted its role in promoting flowering. These results provide valuable insights into the evolution and function of PEBP genes in mung bean and lay the foundation for further research on their regulatory mechanisms and potential applications in mung bean improvement.
Calmodulin-binding transcription activator (CAMTA) is comprised of a group of transcription factors and plays an important role in the Ca Eight paralogous VrCAMTA genes were identified and found to be distributed on five of the 11 chromosomes. The proteins possessed CG-1 DNA-binding domains with bipartite NLS signals, ankyrin domains, CaM-binding IQ motifs, and CaM-binding domain (CaMBD). The 2 kb upstream regions of VrCAMTA genes contained sequence motifs of abscisic acid-responsive elements (ABRE) and ethylene-responsive elements (ERE), and binding sites for transcription factors of the bZIP and bHLH domains. Analysis of RNA-seq data from a public repository revealed ubiquitous expression of the VrCAMTA genes, as VrCAMTA1 was expressed at the highest level in seedling leaves, whereas VrCAMTA8 was expressed at the lowest level, which agreed with the RT-qPCR analysis performed on the first true leaves. On day four after leaf emergence, all VrCAMTA genes were upregulated, with VrCAMTA1 exhibiting the highest degree of upregulation. In darkness on day 4, upregulation was not observed in most VrCAMTA genes, except VrCAMTA7, for which a low degree of upregulation was found, whereas no difference was found in VrCAMTA8 expression between light and dark conditions. Treatment with calcium ionophores enhanced VrCAMTA expression under light and/or dark conditions at different times after leaf emergence, suggesting that calcium signaling is involved in the light-induced upregulation of VrCAMTA gene expression. The expression dependence of nearly all VrCAMTA genes on light and calcium signaling suggests their possible differential but likely complementary roles during the early stages of mung bean growth and development.
In the current study, we have performed a comprehensive analysis of the Sodium Hydrogen Exchanger (NHX) gene family in Vigna mungo, and a total of 44 NHX genes were identified. A bimodal distribution based on domains, gene structure and phylogenetic analysis was evident. All intronpoor and intron-rich genes were clustered in clades I and II, respectively. Interestingly, all genes of subclade IIb were localized to vacuoles and possess only the NHX domain. The isoelectric point and trans-membrane domain analysis reflect the wide distribution of the NHX genes. Interestingly, Vm_NHX2 and Vm_NHX3 lacked trans-membrane domain but were found to interact with other NHX genes as well as vital salinity pathway genes, including calcium-mediated salt-responsive genes. The comparison of the mRNA sequences with that of V. marina, a halophytic species, reflects their independent evolution, majorly supporting the convergent evolution. The Ka/Ks ratio reflects the abundance of purifying selection supporting their conserved function during evolution. In our analysis, several abiotic stress and hormone-responsive elements and transcription factor binding sites were present in the promoter of the NHX genes. Further, the ion partitioning of a tolerant (K90) and a susceptible (K49) variety of V. mungo suggested that K90 managed the Na
Flowering time is an important agronomic trait that is highly correlated with plant height, maturity time and yield in mungbean. Up to present, however, molecular basis of flowering time in mungbean is poorly understood. Previous studies demonstrated that flowering time in mungbean is largely controlled by a major QTL on linkage group 2 (LG2). In this study, the QTL on the LG2 in mungbean was investigated using F
Root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.) are plant parasites causing annual economic losses amounting to several billion US dollars worldwide. One of the most aggressive species is M. enterolobii, a growing threat to agriculture due to its broad host range and ability to overcome many known resistance genes. Mungbean, a nutritionally and economically valuable crop, is particularly vulnerable to nematodes and pathogens. However, research focusing on mungbean resistance to M. enterolobii is scarce, and the corresponding defense mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we screened mungbean accessions and identified an accession strongly resistant to M. enterolobii. Transcriptome analysis revealed 2730 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in this resistant accession (CPI106939) compared to 1777 in the susceptible accession (Crystal) 7 days after nematode inoculation. The gene ontology (GO) upregulated in CPI106939 with functions related to plant-pathogen interactions, plant hormone signaling, oxidative stress, and plant immunity. Plant defense-related genes (WRKY, PAL, MAPK, POD and PR) were also significantly induced in CPI106939. Metabolome analysis showed that four secondary metabolites related to phenylpropanoid metabolism and lignification were significantly enriched in CPI106939. The induced immune response and secondary metabolites may underpin the enhanced resistance to M. enterolobii, providing insight into the resistance mechanisms in accession CPI106939 as well as candidate genes controlling the interaction between mungbean and its nematode parasite. Our study therefore provides foundations for the breeding of new varieties with intrinsic M. enterolobii resistance.
The widespread use of S-metolachlor (ME) in agriculture to suppress weeds and boost crop yields, particularly in cultivating Vigna angularis, is well established. However, the application of organosilicon adjuvants with herbicides has potential threats to non-target crops. This study investigates the toxicity symptoms and mechanisms when V. angularis is exposed to ME in conjunction with a common organosilicon adjuvant. Results indicate that ME inhibits the growth of V. angularis seedlings, and adding adjuvants could aggravate the negative effects of ME. According to the growth index of seedlings, the adjuvant increased the toxicity of ME by 84-96 %. Additionally, the chlorophyll content, root permeability, and antioxidant indicators in the seedlings were also adversely affected. Integrated metabolomics and transcriptomics analyses reveal that differentially abundant metabolites (DAMs) and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) are mainly enriched in four ways: "lysine degradation," "ABC transporters," "phenylalanine metabolism," and "monoterpenoid biosynthesis." The metabolic pathways and gene regulatory network involving 11 DAMs and 22 DEGs are associated with the physiological processes affected by ME and the adjuvant. This study provides guidance for the application of herbicides and their adjuvants in agricultural production to minimize adverse effects on non-target crops.
A "watch and wait" strategy, delaying treatment until active disease manifests, is adopted for most CLL cases; however, prognostic models incorporating biomarkers have shown to be useful to predict treatment requirement. In our prospective O-CLL1 study including 224 patients, we investigated the predictive role of 513 microRNAs (miRNAs) on time to first treatment (TTFT). In the context of this study, six well-established variables (i.e., Rai stage, beta-2-microglobulin levels,
Node Inception (NIN) plays a crucial role in legume symbiosis by participating in both infection and nodule formation processes. However, its specific function in mungbean (Vigna radiata) remains poorly understood. This study aimed to functionally characterize the VrNIN1 gene in mungbean through an enhanced hairy root transformation approach. Examination of proVrNIN1: GUS hairy roots via GUS staining indicated the expression of VrNIN1 in later root promodia, nodule primordia, and nodules. Phenotypic evaluation revealed that overexpression or silencing of VrNIN1 led to a significant reduction in nodule numbers in hairy roots compared to controls. Additionally, interaction between VrNIN1 and VrNNC1 was confirmed through yeast two-hybrid, luciferase complementation and Co-immunoprecipitation assays. VrNNC1 expression was observed in the vascular bundle and cortex of roots and root nodules, where it notably suppressed nodule formation in transgenic hairy roots. Furthermore, gene expression analysis demonstrated the involvement of VrNIN1 and VrNNC1 in regulating root nodulation by modulating the expression of VrRIC1 and VrEDOD40. This study not only optimized the genetic transformation system for hairy roots in mungbean, but also provided mechanistic insights into the regulatory role of VrNIN1 in root nodule symbiosis in mungbean.
Mung bean coat has long been known for its wide-ranging health benefits, including antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, and immune-modulatory properties. For many years in China, mung beans have been employed in the therapeutic management of inflammation induced by pathogenic bacteria infection, yet the precise underlying protective mechanisms remain to be comprehensively elucidated. Given the growing concern over antibiotic resistance, there is a necessity to explore new anti-infective agents. Here, the anti-infective properties of Mung bean coat extract (MBCE) were investigated using a model of Pseudomonas aeruginosa-infected nematodes. The protective effects of MBCE on Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA14) infected nematodes were assessed by lifespan assay, reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, transcriptomics, and Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). MBCE significantly improved the survival rates and reduced ROS levels in infected worms. Transcriptomic profiling disclosed predominant KEGG pathway enrichments in immune responses, energy metabolism processes such as oxidative phosphorylation and the tricarboxylic acid cycle, alongside aging-related neurodegenerative diseases and longevity regulatory pathways like PI3K-AKT, MAPK, mTOR, and FOXO. qRT-PCR validation showed that MBCE upregulated antimicrobial peptides (spp-3, lys-1, lys-7, abf-2, cnc-2, nlp-33, clec-85), gram-negative responses (irg-3, src-2, grd-3, col-179), and mitochondrial function (mev-1) gene expressions, while downregulated insulin signaling-related (age-1, akt-1, akt-2, daf-15) gene expressions. Mutant strains lifespan analysis indicated that the nsy-1, sek-1, pmk-1, daf-2, aak-2, sir-2.1, and skn-1 were necessary for lifespan extension mediated by MBCE under PA14 infection, but not clk-1, isp-1, mev-1, or daf-16. Collectively, our findings suggested that MBCE increased the survival rates of PA14-infected worms by activating downstream antimicrobial and antioxidant gene expressions through modulation of MAPK, daf-2, aak-2, sir-2.1, and skn-1 pathways. The research underscored the potential of natural plant compounds to strengthen the body's defenses against infections, potentially mitigating harmful ROS levels and improving survival. Additionally, these findings elucidated the mechanisms by which these plant-derived compounds enhance the immune system, implying their potential utility as dietary supplements or as an alternative to conventional antibiotics.
The TATA-box binding protein (TBP) and TBP-associated factors (TAFs) constitute the transcription factor IID (TFIID), a crucial component of RNA polymerase II, essential for transcription initiation and regulation. Several TFIID subunits are shared with the Spt-Ada-Gcn5-acetyltransferase (SAGA) coactivator complex. Recent research has revealed the roles of TBP and TAFs in organogenesis and stress adaptation. In this study, we identified 1 TBP and 21 putative TAFs in the mungbean genome, among which
The adzuki bean is a mature seed of the red bean leguminous plant, and people like to eat it because of its nutritious properties and moderate proportion of amino acids. Adzuki bean germination and the enrichment of GABA greatly improve the health effects of the adzuki bean. The effects of the GABA-rich adzuki bean on the expression of insulin-pathway-related genes and proteins in the liver of T2DM mice were studied via Western blotting and qPCR. The results showed that a GABA-rich adzuki bean diet could promote glycogen synthesis in the liver of T2DM mice, inhibit the activities of PEPCK and G-6-Pase, and significantly down-regulate the gene expression levels of
In plants, WRKY transcription factors play a crucial role in plant growth, development, and response to abiotic and biotic stress. Cowpea (
The adzuki bean is a typical short-day plant and an important grain crop that is widely used due to its high nutritional and medicinal value. The adzuki bean flowering time is affected by multiple environmental factors, particularly the photoperiod. Adjusting the day length can induce flower synchronization in adzuki bean and accelerate the breeding process. In this study, we used RNA sequencing analysis to determine the effects of different day lengths on gene expression and metabolic characteristics related to adzuki bean flowering time. 'Tangshan hong xiao dou' was used as the experimental material in this study and field experiments were conducted in 2022 using a randomized block design with three treatments: short-day induction periods of 5 d (SD-5d), 10 d (SD-10d), and 15 d (SD-15d). A total of 5,939 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, of which 38.09% were up-regulated and 23.81% were down-regulated. Gene ontology enrichment analysis was performed on the target genes to identify common functions related to photosystems I and II. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis identified two pathways involved in the antenna protein and circadian rhythm. Furthermore, florescence was promoted by down-regulating genes in the circadian rhythm pathway through the blue light metabolic pathway; whereas, antenna proteins promoted flowering by enhancing the reception of light signals and accelerating electron transport. In these two metabolic pathways, the number of DEGs was the greatest between the SD-5d VS SD-15d groups. Real-time reverse transcription‒quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis results of eight DEGs were consistent with the sequencing results. Thus, the sequencing results were accurate and reliable and eight genes were identified as candidates for the regulation of short-day induction at the adzuki bean seedling stage. Short-day induction was able to down-regulate the expression of genes related to flowering according to the circadian rhythm and up-regulate the expression of certain genes in the antenna protein pathway. The results provide a theoretical reference for the molecular mechanism of short-day induction and multi-level information for future functional studies to verify the key genes regulating adzuki bean flowering.
There is an increasing amount of research into the development of a third generation of iron supplementation using peptide-iron chelates. Peptides isolated from mung bean were chelated with ferrous iron (MBP-Fe) and tested as a supplement in mice suffering from iron-deficiency anemia (IDA). Mice were randomly divided into seven groups: a group fed the normal diet, the IDA model group, and IDA groups treated with inorganic iron (FeSO
Cowpea wilt is a harmful disease caused by Fusarium oxysporum, leading to substantial losses in cowpea production. Melatonin reportedly regulates plant immunity to pathogens; however the specific regulatory mechanism underlying the protective effect of melatonin pretreated of cowpea against Fusarium oxysporum remains known. Accordingly, the study sought to evaluate changes in the physiological and biochemical indices of cowpea following melatonin treated to facilitate Fusarium oxysporum resistance and elucidate the associated molecular mechanism using a weighted gene coexpression network. Treatment with 100 µM melatonin was effective in increasing cowpea resistance to Fusarium oxysporum. Glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX), catalase (CAT), and salicylic acid (SA) levels were significantly upregulated, and hydrogen peroxide (H The study elucidated changes in the expression of genes associated with the response of cowpea to Fusarium oxysporum under melatonin treated. Specifically, multiple defence mechanisms were initiated to improve cowpea resistance to Fusarium oxysporum.
Plants exposed to heavy metals (HMs) stress negatively affect their development and production capacity. Chromium (Cr), Cadmium (Cd), and Lead (Pb) are the most common hazardous trace metals in agriculture. The physiological, biochemical, and molecular characteristics of crops are being affected. Phytoremediation is a method to alleviate heavy metals from the contaminated soil. The study aims to evaluate the phytoremediation ability of Vigna radiata L. (mung bean) in the absence and the presence of multi-metal tolerant and plant growth promoting Pseudomonas geniculata strain TIU16A3 isolated from soil of tannery industrial estate, Kolkata, West Bengal, India. The strain was further assessed with increasing concentrations of Cr, Cd, and Pb (10, 20, 40, and 80 µg/mL) when the mung bean plant was a test crop. The strain significantly increased plant growth, chlorophyll content, increased level of antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, and catalase, and decreased oxidative stress indicators like H
HER2 amplification occurs in approximately 5% of colorectal cancer (CRC) cases and is associated only partially with clinical response to combined human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)/epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-targeted treatment. An alternative approach based on adoptive cell therapy using T cells engineered with anti-HER2 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) proved to be toxic due to on-target/off-tumor activity. Here we describe a combinatorial strategy to safely target HER2 amplification and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) expression in CRC using a synNotch-CAR-based artificial regulatory network. The natural killer (NK) cell line NK-92 was engineered with an anti-HER2 synNotch receptor driving the expression of a CAR against CEA only when engaged. After being transduced and sorted for HER2-driven CAR expression, cells were cloned. The clone with optimal performances in terms of specificity and amplitude of CAR induction demonstrated significant activity in vitro and in vivo specifically against HER2-amplified (HER2amp)/CEA
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) is an important warm-season grain legume. Adaptation to extreme environmental conditions, supported by evolution, makes mung bean a rich gene pool for stress tolerance traits. The exploration of resistance genes will provide important genetic resources and a theoretical basis for strengthening mung bean breeding. B-box (BBX) proteins play a major role in developmental processes and stress responses. However, the identification and analysis of the mung bean BBX gene family are still lacking. In this study, 23 VrBBX genes were identified through comprehensive bioinformatics analysis and named based on their physical locations on chromosomes. All the VrBBXs were divided into five groups based on their phylogenetic relationships, the number of B-box they contained and whether there was an additional CONSTANS, CO-like and TOC1 (CCT) domain. Homology and collinearity analysis indicated that the BBX genes in mung bean and other species had undergone a relatively conservative evolution. Gene duplication analysis showed that only chromosomal segmental duplication contributed to the expansion of VrBBX genes and that most of the duplicated gene pairs experienced purifying selection pressure during evolution. Gene structure and motif analysis revealed that VrBBX genes clustered in the same group shared similar structural characteristics. An analysis of cis-acting elements indicated that elements related to stress and hormone responses were prevalent in the promoters of most VrBBXs. The RNA-seq data analysis and qRT-PCR of nine VrBBX genes demonstrated that VrBBX genes may play a role in response to environmental stress. Moreover, VrBBX5, VrBBX10 and VrBBX12 are important candidate genes for plant stress response. In this study, we systematically analyzed the genomic characteristics and expression patterns of the BBX gene family under ABA, PEG and NaCl treatments. The results will help us better understand the complexity of the BBX gene family and provide valuable information for future functional characteristics of specific genes in this family.
The Multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) and aluminium activated malate transporter (ALMT) gene families are involved in response to aluminium (Al) stress. In this study, we identified 48 MATE and 14 ALMT gene families in Vigna radiata genome and classified into 5 (MATE) and 3 (ALMT) clades by phylogenetic analysis. All the VrMATE and VrALMT genes were distributed across mungbean chromosomes. Tandem duplication was the main driving force for evolution and expansion of MATE gene family. Collinearity of mungbean with soybean indicated that MATE gene family is closely linked to Glycine max. Eight MATE transporters in clade 2 were found to be associated with previously characterized Al tolerance related MATEs in various plant species. Citrate exuding motif (CEM) was present in seven VrMATEs of clade 2. Promoter analysis revealed abundant plant hormone and stress responsive cis-elements. Results from quantitative real time-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) revealed that VrMATE19, VrMATE30 and VrALMT13 genes were markedly up-regulated at different time points under Al stress. Overall, this study offers a new direction for further molecular characterization of the MATE and ALMT genes in mungbean for Al tolerance.
Cadmium (Cd), one of the most phytotoxic heavy metals, is a major contributor to yield losses in several crops. Silicon (Si) is recognized for its vital role in mitigating Cd toxicity, however, the specific mechanisms governing this mitigation process are still not fully understood. In the present study, the effect of Si supplementation on mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) plants grown under Cd stress was investigated to unveil the intricate pathways defining Si derived stress tolerance. Non-invasive leaf imaging technique revealed improved growth, biomass, and photosynthetic efficiency in Si supplemented mungbean plants under Cd stress. Further, physiological and biochemical analysis revealed Si mediated increase in activity of glutathione reductase (GR), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), and catalase (CAT) enzymes involved in reactive oxygen species (ROS) metabolism leading to mitigation of cellular damage and oxidative stress. Untargeted metabolomic analysis using liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) provided insights into Si mediated changes in metabolites and their respective pathways under Cd stress. Alteration in five different metabolic pathways with major changes in flavanols and flavonoids biosynthesis pathway which is essential for controlling plants antioxidant defense system and oxidative stress management were observed. The information reported here about the effects of Si on photosynthetic efficiency, antioxidant responses, and metabolic changes will be helpful in understanding the Si-mediated resistance to Cd stress in plants.
Drought stress has become an important limiting factor in mung bean production, and NAC(NAM/ATAF/CUC) transcription factors are crucial for plant growth under stress conditions, so it is important to study the regulatory role of NAC transcription factors in mung bean under drought stress. In this investigation, VrNAC15, along with its promoter, was cloned, and its structure was meticulously analyzed. Using qPCR, we examined the tissue-specific expression patterns of VrNAC15, particularly under drought stress and ABA exposure. Additionally, We performed ectopic expression of VrNAC15 in Arabidopsis to assess its function.. Gene sequence analysis revealed that VrNAC15 has a total length of 1014 bp, encoding 337 amino acids. It contains a NAM domain, localizes within the nucleus, and exhibits transcriptional activation. Promoter analysis of VrNAC15 identified essential core promoter elements and cis-acting elements related to abscisic acid, methyl jasmonate, gibberellin, adversity stress, light, and metabolism. Expression analysis demonstrated the concentration of VrNAC15 in leaves, with significant alterations following ABA and drought treatments in mung beans. Cluster analysis revealed that VrNAC15 may enhanced drought tolerance in transgenic plants through its expression. Transgenic experiments supported these findings, showing that heterologous expression of VrNAC15 led to enhanced antioxidant and osmotic adjustment capabilities in Arabidopsis plants. This resulted in the maintenance of cell membrane structural integrity during drought stress and normal physiological and biochemical metabolic reactions within cells. This research provides valuable insights into the structural and functional characteristics of the VrNAC15, setting the stage for future endeavors in molecular breeding for improved drought resistance in mung beans.
Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most commonly diagnosed extracranial solid tumor in children, accounting for 15% of all childhood cancer deaths. Although the 5-year survival rate of patients with a high-risk disease has increased in recent decades, NB remains a challenge in pediatric oncology, and the identification of novel potential therapeutic targets and agents is an urgent clinical need. The RNA-binding protein LIN28B has been identified as an oncogene in NB and is associated with a poor prognosis. Given that LIN28B acts by negatively regulating the biogenesis of the tumor suppressor let-7 miRNAs, we reasoned that selective interference with the LIN28B/let-7 miRNA interaction would increase let-7 miRNA levels, ultimately leading to reduced NB aggressiveness. Here, we selected (-)-epigallocatechin 3-gallate (EGCG) out of 4959 molecules screened as the molecule with the best inhibitory activity on LIN28B/let-7 miRNA interaction and showed that treatment with PLC/PLGA-PEG nanoparticles containing EGCG (EGCG-NPs) led to an increase in mature let-7 miRNAs and a consequent inhibition of NB cell growth. In addition, EGCG-NP pretreatment reduced the tumorigenic potential of NB cells in vivo. These experiments suggest that the LIN28B/let-7 miRNA axis is a good therapeutic target in NB and that EGCG, which can interfere with this interaction, deserves further preclinical evaluation.
Molecular mechanisms which underpin compound leaf development in some legumes have been reported, but there is no previous study on the molecular genetic control of compound leaf formation in Vigna unguiculata (cowpea), an important dryland legume of African origin. In most studied species with compound leaves, class 1 KNOTTED-LIKE HOMEOBOX genes expressed in developing leaf primordia sustain morphogenetic activity, allowing leaf dissection and the development of leaflets. Other genes, such as, SINGLE LEAFLET1 in Medicago truncatula and Trifoliate in Solanum lycopersicum, are also implicated in regulating compound leaf patterning. To set the pace for an in-depth understanding of the genetics of compound leaf development in cowpea, we applied RNA-seq and whole genome shotgun sequence datasets of a spontaneous cowpea unifoliate mutant and its trifoliate wild-type cultivar to conduct comparative reference-based gene expression, de novo genome-wide isoform switch, and genome variant analyses between the two genotypes. Our results suggest that genomic variants upstream of LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL and down-stream of REVEILLE4, BRASSINOSTERIOD INSENSITIVE1 and LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES result in down-regulation of key components of cowpea circadian rhythm central oscillator and brassinosteroid signaling, resulting in unifoliate leaves and brassinosteroid-deficient-like phenotypes. We have stated hypotheses that will guide follow-up studies expected to provide more insights.
Rice bean (Vigna umbellata), an underrated legume, adapts to diverse climatic conditions with the potential to support food and nutritional security worldwide. It is used as a vegetable, minor food crop and a fodder crop, being a rich source of proteins, minerals, and essential fatty acids. However, little effort has been made to decipher the genetic and molecular basis of various useful traits in this crop. Therefore, we considered three economically important traits i.e., flowering, maturity and seed weight of rice bean and identified the associated candidate genes employing an associative transcriptomics approach on 100 diverse genotypes out of 1800 evaluated rice bean accessions from the Indian National Genebank. The transcriptomics-based genotyping of one-hundred diverse rice bean cultivars followed by pre-processing of genotypic data resulted in 49,271 filtered markers. The STRUCTURE, PCA and Neighbor-Joining clustering of 100 genotypes revealed three putative sub-populations. The marker-trait association analysis involving various genome-wide association study (GWAS) models revealed significant association of 82 markers on 48 transcripts for flowering, 26 markers on 22 transcripts for maturity and 22 markers on 21 transcripts for seed weight. The transcript annotation provided information on the putative candidate genes for the considered traits. The candidate genes identified for flowering include HSC80, P-II PsbX, phospholipid-transporting-ATPase-9, pectin-acetylesterase-8 and E3-ubiquitin-protein-ligase-RHG1A. Further, the WRKY1 and DEAD-box-RH27 were found to be associated with seed weight. Furthermore, the associations of PIF3 and pentatricopeptide-repeat-containing-gene with maturity and seed weight, and aldo-keto-reductase with flowering and maturity were revealed. This study offers insights into the genetic basis of key agronomic traits in rice bean, including flowering, maturity, and seed weight. The identified markers and associated candidate genes provide valuable resources for future exploration and targeted breeding, aiming to enhance the agronomic performance of rice bean cultivars. Notably, this research represents the first transcriptome-wide association study in pulse crop, uncovering the candidate genes for agronomically useful traits.
Strigolactones (SLs), a class of plant apocarotenoids, serve dual roles as rhizosphere-signaling molecules and plant hormones. Orobanchol, a major naturally occurring SL, along with its various derivatives, has been detected in the root exudates of plants of the Fabaceae family. Medicaol, fabacyl acetate, and orobanchyl acetate were identified in the root exudates of barrel medic (
Trisomy 21 (T21), which causes Down syndrome (DS), is the most common chromosomal aneuploidy in humankind and includes different clinical comorbidities, among which the alteration of the immune system has a heavy impact on patient's lives. A molecule with an important role in immune response is zinc and it is known that its concentration is significantly lower in children with T21. Different hypotheses were made about this metabolic alteration and one of the reasons might be the overexpression of superoxide dismutase 1 ( The aim of our work is to explore if there is a linear correlation between zinc level and immune cell levels measured in a total of 217 blood samples from subjects with T21. Furthermore, transcriptome map analyses were performed using Transcriptome Mapper (TRAM) software to investigate whether a difference in gene expression is detectable between subjects with T21 and euploid control group in tissues and cells involved in the immune response such as lymphoblastoid cells, thymus and white blood cells. Our results have confirmed the literature data stating that the blood zinc level in subjects with T21 is lower compared to the general population; in addition, we report that the T21/control zinc concentration ratio is 2:3, consistent with a chromosomal dosage effect due to the presence of three copies of chromosome 21. The transcriptome map analyses showed an alteration of some gene's expression which might explain low levels of zinc in the blood. Our data suggest that zinc level is not associated with the levels of immunity cells or proteins analyzed themselves and rather the main role of this ion might be played in altering immune cell function.
The origin and functionality of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) remain poorly understood. Here, we show that multiple quantitative trait loci modulating distinct domestication traits in soybeans are pleiotropic effects of a locus composed of two tandem lncRNA genes. These lncRNA genes, each containing two inverted repeats, originating from coding sequences of the MYB genes, function in wild soybeans by generating clusters of small RNA (sRNA) species that inhibit the expression of their MYB gene relatives through post-transcriptional regulation. By contrast, the expression of lncRNA genes in cultivated soybeans is severely repressed, and, consequently, the corresponding MYB genes are highly expressed, shaping multiple distinct domestication traits as well as leafhopper resistance. The inverted repeats were formed before the divergence of the Glycine genus from the Phaseolus-Vigna lineage and exhibit strong structure-function constraints. This study exemplifies a type of target for selection during plant domestication and identifies mechanisms of lncRNA formation and action.
TCP transcription factors are known to regulate abiotic stress condition, but their role in The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-024-03976-x.
The combined stress studies provide fundamental knowledge that could assist in producing multiple stress resilient crops. The fungal phytopathogen, Macrophomina phaseolina is a major limiting factor in the productivity of the crop, Vigna radiata (mungbean). This fungal species tends to flourish under hot and dry conditions. Therefore, in this study the salicylic acid (SA) mediated stress responses in contrasting mungbean cultivars (Shikha and RMG-975) exposed to combined M. phaseolina infection (F) and drought stress (D) have been elucidated. The combined stress was applied to ten days seedlings in three orders i.e. drought followed by fungal infection (DF), drought followed by fungal infection with extended water deficit (DFD) and fungal infection followed by drought stress (FD). The severity of infection was analyzed using ImageJ analysis. Besides, the concentration of SA has been correlated with the phenylpropanoid pathway products, expression of pathogenesis-related proteins (β-1,3-glucanase and chitinase) and the specific activity of certain related enzymes (phenylalanine ammonia lyase, lipoxygenase and glutathione-S-transferase). The data revealed that the cultivar RMG-975 was relatively more tolerant than Shikha under individual stresses. However, the former became more susceptible to the infection under DFD treatment while the latter showed tolerance. Otherwise, the crown rot severity was reduced in both the cultivars under other combined treatments. The stress response analysis suggested that enhanced chitinase expression is vital for tolerance against both, the pathogen and drought stress. Also, it was noted that plants treat each stress combination differently and the role of SA was more prominently visible under individual stress conditions.
Cisplatin is a widely used anti-cancer drug for treating solid tumors, but it is associated with severe side effects, including nephrotoxicity. Various studies have suggested that the nephrotoxicity of cisplatin could be overcome; nonetheless, an effective adjuvant drug has not yet been established. Oleanolic acid acetate (OAA), a triterpenoid isolated from
Mung bean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek), is an important pulse crop in the global south. Early flowering and maturation are advantageous traits for adaptation to northern and southern latitudes. This study investigates the genetic basis of the Days-to-Flowering trait (DTF) in mung bean, combining genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in mung bean and comparisons with orthologous genes involved with control of DTF responses in soybean (Glycine max (L) Merr) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The most significant associations for DTF were on mung bean chromosomes 1, 2, and 4. Only the SNPs on chromosomes 1 and 4 were heavily investigated using downstream analysis. The chromosome 1 DTF association is tightly linked with a cluster of locally duplicated FERONIA (FER) receptor-like protein kinase genes, and the SNP occurs within one of the FERONIA genes. In Arabidopsis, an orthologous FERONIA gene (AT3G51550), has been reported to regulate the expression of the FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC). For the chromosome 4 DTF locus, the strongest candidates are Vradi04g00002773 and Vradi04g00002778, orthologous to the Arabidopsis PhyA and PIF3 genes, encoding phytochrome A (a photoreceptor protein sensitive to red to far-red light) and phytochrome-interacting factor 3, respectively. The soybean PhyA orthologs include the classical loci E3 and E4 (genes GmPhyA3, Glyma.19G224200, and GmPhyA2, Glyma.20G090000). The mung bean PhyA ortholog has been previously reported as a candidate for DTF in studies conducted in South Korea. The top two identified SNPs accounted for a significant proportion (~ 65%) of the phenotypic variability in mung bean DTF by the six significant SNPs (39.61%), with a broad-sense heritability of 0.93. The strong associations of DTF with genes that have orthologs with analogous functions in soybean and Arabidopsis provide strong circumstantial evidence that these genes are causal for this trait. The three reported loci and candidate genes provide useful targets for marker-assisted breeding in mung beans.
The SPL gene family (for Squamosa Promoter-binding like Proteins) represents specific transcription factors that have significant roles in abiotic stress tolerance, development and the growth processes of different plants, including initiation of the leaf, branching and development of shoot and fruits. The SPL gene family has been studied in different plant species; however, its role is not yet fully explored in pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan ). In the present study, 11 members of the CcSPL gene family were identified in C. cajan . The identified SPLs were classified into nine groups based on a phylogenetic analysis involving SPL protein sequences from C. cajan , Arabidopsis thaliana , Cicer arietinum , Glycine max , Phaseolus vulgaris , Vigna unguiculata and Arachis hypogaea . Further, the identification of gene structure, motif analysis, domain analysis and presence of cis -regulatory elements in the SPL family members were studied. Based on RNA-sequencing data, gene expression analysis was performed, revealing that CcSPL2.1, 3 and 13A were significantly upregulated for salt-tolerance and CcSPL14 and 15 were upregulated in a salt-susceptible cultivar. Real-time qPCR validation indicated that CcSPL3, 4, 6 and 13A were upregulated under salt stress conditions. Therefore, molecular docking was performed against the proteins of two highly expressed genes (CcSPL3 and CcSPL14 ) with three ligands: abscisic acid, gibberellic acid and indole-3-acetic acid. Afterward, their binding affinity was obtained and three-dimensional structures were predicted. In the future, our study may open avenues for harnessing CcSPL genes in pigeon pea for enhanced abiotic stress resistance and developmental traits.
Mung bean (Vigna radiata) stands as a crucial legume crop in Asia, contributing to food security. However, our understanding of the underlying genetic foundation governing domesticated agronomic traits, especially those linked to pod architecture, remains largely unexplored. In this study, we delved into the genomic divergence between wild and domesticated mung bean varieties, leveraging germplasm obtained from diverse sources. Our findings unveiled pronounced variation in promoter regions (35%) between the two mung bean subpopulations, suggesting substantial changes in gene expression patterns during domestication. Leveraging transcriptome analysis using distinct reproductive stage pods and subpopulations, we identified candidate genes responsible for pod and seed architecture development, along with Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) and Quantitative Trait Locus (QTL) analysis. Notably, our research conclusively confirmed PDH1 as a parallel domesticated gene governing pod dehiscence in legumes. This study imparts valuable insights into the genetic underpinnings of domesticated agronomic traits in mung bean, and simultaneously highlighting the parallel domestication of pivotal traits within the realm of legume crops.
The mediator complex subunits (MED) constitutes a multiprotein complex, with each subunit intricately involved in crucial aspects of plant growth, development, and responses to stress. Nevertheless, scant reports pertain to the VunMED gene within the context of asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedialis). Establishing the identification and exploring the responsiveness of VunMED to cold stress forms a robust foundation for the cultivation of cold-tolerant asparagus bean cultivars. Within this study, a comprehensive genome-wide identification of VunMED genes was executed in the asparagus bean cultivar 'Ningjiang3', resulting in the discovery of 36 distinct VunMED genes. A phylogenetic analysis encompassing 232 MED genes from diverse species, including Arabidopsis, tomatoes, soybeans, mung beans, cowpeas, and asparagus beans, underscored the highly conserved nature of MED gene sequences. Throughout evolutionary processes, each VunMED gene underwent purification and neutral selection, with the exception of VunMED19a. Notably, VunMED9/10b/12/13/17/23 exhibited structural variations discernible across four cowpea species. Divergent patterns of temporal and spatial expression were evident among VunMED genes, with a prominent role attributed to most genes during early fruit development. Additionally, an analysis of promoter cis-acting elements was performed, followed by qRT-PCR assessments on roots, stems, and leaves to gauge relative expression after exposure to cold stress and subsequent recovery. Both treatments induced transcriptional alterations in VunMED genes, with particularly pronounced effects observed in root-based genes following cold stress. Elucidating the interrelationships between subunits involved a preliminary understanding facilitated by correlation and principal component analyses. This study elucidates the pivotal contribution of VunMED genes to the growth, development, and response to cold stress in asparagus beans. Furthermore, it offers a valuable point of reference regarding the individual roles of MED subunits.
Evolutionarily conserved in plants, the enzyme D-myo-inositol-3-phosphate synthase (MIPS; EC 5.5.1.4) regulates the initial, rate-limiting reaction in the phytic acid biosynthetic pathway. They are reported to be transcriptional regulators involved in various physiological functions in the plants, growth, and biotic/abiotic stress responses. Even though the genomes of most legumes are fully sequenced and available, an all-inclusive study of the MIPS family members in legumes is still ongoing. We found 24 MIPS genes in ten legumes: Arachis hypogea, Cicer arietinum, Cajanus cajan, Glycine max, Lablab purpureus, Medicago truncatula, Pisum sativum, Phaseolus vulgaris, Trifolium pratense and Vigna unguiculata. The total number of MIPS genes found in each species ranged from two to three. The MIPS genes were classified into five clades based on their evolutionary relationships with Arabidopsis genes. The structural patterns of intron/exon and the protein motifs that were conserved in each gene were highly group-specific. In legumes, MIPS genes were inconsistently distributed across their genomes. A comparison of genomes and gene sequences showed that this family was subjected to purifying selection and the gene expansion in MIPS family in legumes was mainly caused by segmental duplication. Through quantitative PCR, expression patterns of MIPS in response to various abiotic stresses, in the vegetative tissues of various legumes were studied. Expression pattern shows that MIPS genes control the development and differentiation of various organs, and have significant responses to salinity and drought stress. The MIPS genes in the genomes of legumes have been identified, characterized and their expression was analysed. The findings pave way for understanding their molecular functions and evolution, and lead to identify the putative MIPS genes associated with different cell and tissue development.
Aphid salivary proteins mediate the interaction between aphids and their host plants. Moreover, these proteins facilitate digestion, detoxification of secondary metabolites, as well as activation and suppression of plant defenses. The cowpea aphid, Aphis craccivora, is an important sucking pest of leguminous crops worldwide. Although aphid saliva plays an important role in aphid plant interactions, knowledge of the cowpea aphid salivary proteins is limited. In this study, we performed transcriptomic and LC-MS/MS analyses to identify the proteins present in the salivary glands and saliva of A. craccivora. A total of 1,08,275 assembled transcripts were identified in the salivary glands of aphids. Of all these assembled transcripts, 53,714 (49.11%) and 53,577 (49.48%) transcripts showed high similarity to known proteins in the Nr and UniProt databases, respectively. A total of 2159 proteins were predicted as secretory proteins from the salivary gland transcriptome dataset, which contain digestive enzymes, detoxification enzymes, previously known effectors and elicitors, and potential proteins whose functions have yet to be determined. The proteomic analysis of aphid saliva resulted in the identification of 171 proteins. Tissue-specific expression of selected genes using RT-PCR showed that three genes were expressed only in the salivary glands. Overall, our results provide a comprehensive repertoire of cowpea aphid salivary proteins from the salivary gland and saliva, which will be a good resource for future effector functional studies and might also be useful for sustainable aphid management.
In different regions of the world, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is an important vegetable and an excellent source of protein. It lessens the malnutrition of the underprivileged in developing nations and has some positive effects on health, such as a reduction in the prevalence of cancer and cardiovascular disease. However, occasionally, certain biotic and abiotic stresses caused a sharp fall in cowpea yield. Major RNA interference (RNAi) genes like Dicer-like (DCL), Argonaute (AGO), and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR) are essential for the synthesis of their associated factors like domain, small RNAs (sRNAs), transcription factors, micro-RNAs, and
Mungbean is known to be susceptible to waterlogging (WL) stress. Some of the wild species have the potential to tolerate this through various physiological and molecular mechanisms.
Mung bean is a dual-use crop widely cultivated in Southeast Asia as a food and medicine resource. The development of new functional mung bean varieties demands identifying new genes regulating anthocyanidin synthesis and investigating their molecular mechanism. In this study, we used high-throughput sequencing technology to generate transcriptome sequence of leaves, petioles, and hypocotyls for investigating the anthocyanins accumulation in common mung bean variety as well as anthocyanidin rich mung bean variety, and to elucidate their molecular mechanisms. 29 kinds of anthocyanin compounds were identified. Most of the anthocyanin components contents were significantly higher in ZL23 compare with AL12. Transcriptome analysis suggested that a total of 93 structural genes encoding the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway and 273 regulatory genes encoding the ternary complex of MYB-bHLH-WD40 were identified, of which 26 and 78 were differentially expressed in the two varieties. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis revealed that VrMYB3 and VrMYB90 might have enhanced mung bean anthocyanin content by inducing the expression of structural genes such as
Eukaryotic genomes show an intricate three-dimensional (3D) organization within the nucleus that regulates multiple biological processes including gene expression. Contrary to animals, understanding of 3D genome organization in plants remains at a nascent stage. Here, we investigate the evolution of 3D chromatin architecture in legumes. By using cutting-edge PacBio, Illumina, and Hi-C contact reads, we report a gap-free, chromosome-scale reference genome assembly of
The influence of drought induced by polyethylene glycol (PEG) and the alleviatory effect of nitric oxide (50 µM) and sulphur (S, 1 mM K
Specific stimuli to plants influence intracellular and intercellular communications, activation of ion channels, gene expression, growth and development. The functional role of self-induced in situ electrical stimuli at the rhizosphere of the plant by placing electrode assembly in a defined circuit mode was studied on the growth and development of Vigna radiata and Cicer arietinum plants. Experiments were designed with three-circuit mode configurational variations (CC-P, OC-P and SC-P) and compared with the relative performance of control system (non-potential). The plants cultivated under the in situ electrical stimuli (low-current) showed a marked influence on growth and photosynthetic performance of the plants. CC-P operation showed improved vegetative growth, characterized by increased roots, shoots and biomass along with accelerated plant growth from seed germination to vegetation, flowering and pod formation leading towards earlier and more robust flowering compared to control system. Plants also showed higher aquaporin gene expression levels in CC-P operation. The control operation showed 10 days additional maturation time compared to CC-P operation. The strategy can be beneficially applied to augment the bioremediation capacity of complex pollutants with reference to phytoremediation or constructed wetland systems where the plant and its roots are the main enabler apart from agriculture applications specific to nursery-raised or transplanted plants.
Plants are a source of natural ingredients with retinol-like properties that can deliver anti-aging benefits without the side effects typically associated with retinoid use. We hypothesized that by combining two such analogs, bakuchiol (BAK) and Vigna aconitifolia extract (VAE), with the potent retinoid retinal (RAL), the anti-photoaging potential of RAL could be enhanced without compromising its skin irritation profile. The purpose of this study was to demonstrate that BAK and VAE potentiate the anti-photoaging activity of RAL. Gene expression profiling of full-thickness reconstructed skin was first used to examine the impact of BAK or VAE in combination with RAL on skin biology. Next, the irritative potential of this combination, and its capacity to reverse key signs of photoaging in an ex vivo model was assessed. Finally, a proof-of-concept open label clinical study was performed to evaluate the anti-photoaging capacity and skin compatibility of a cosmetic formulation (tri-retinoid complex; 3RC) containing this complex in combination with other well characterized anti-photoaging ingredients. In vitro profiling suggested that combining 0.1% RAL with BAK or VAE potentiates the effect of RAL on keratinocyte differentiation and skin barrier function without affecting its skin irritation profile. When formulated with other anti-photoaging ingredients, such as niacinamide and melatonin, 3RC reversed ultraviolet radiation-induced deficits in structural components of the dermal extracellular matrix, including hyaluronic acid and collagen. In vivo, it led to a reversal of clinical signs of age and photodamage, with statistically significant improvement to skin firmness (+5.6%), skin elasticity (+13.9%), wrinkle count (-43.2%), and skin tone homogeneity (+7.0%), observed within 28 days of once nightly use. Notably, the number of crow's feet wrinkles was reduced in 100% of subjects. Furthermore, 3RC was very well tolerated. These data suggest that 3RC is a highly effective and well-tolerated treatment for photoaging.
Long terminal repeat (LTR)-retrotransposons (LTR-RTs) are ubiquitous and make up the majority of nearly all sequenced plant genomes, whereas their pivotal roles in genome evolution, gene expression regulation as well as their epigenetic regulation are still not well understood, especially in a large number of closely related species. Here, we analyzed the abundance and dynamic evolution of LTR-RTs in 54 species from an economically and agronomically important family, Fabaceae, and also selected two representative species for further analysis in expression of associated genes, transcriptional activity and DNA methylation patterns of LTR-RTs. Annotation results revealed highly varied proportions of LTR-RTs in these genomes (5.1%~68.4%) and their correlation with genome size was highly positive, and they were significantly contributed to the variance in genome size through species-specific unique amplifications. Almost all of the intact LTR-RTs were inserted into the genomes 4 Mya (million years ago), and more than 50% of them were inserted in the last 0.5 million years, suggesting that recent amplifications of LTR-RTs were an important force driving genome evolution. In addition, expression levels of genes with intronic, promoter, and downstream LTR-RT insertions of Glycine max and Vigna radiata, two agronomically important crops in Fabaceae, showed that the LTR-RTs located in promoter or downstream regions suppressed associated gene expression. However, the LTR-RTs within introns promoted gene expression or had no contribution to gene expression. Additionally, shorter and younger LTR-RTs maintained higher mobility and transpositional potential. Compared with the transcriptionally silent LTR-RTs, the active elements showed significantly lower DNA methylation levels in all three contexts. The distributions of transcriptionally active and silent LTR-RT methylation varied across different lineages due to the position of LTR-RTs located or potentially epigenetic regulation. Lineage-specific amplification patterns were observed and higher methylation level may repress the activity of LTR-RTs, further influence evolution in Fabaceae species. This study offers valuable clues into the evolution, function, transcriptional activity and epigenetic regulation of LTR-RTs in Fabaceae genomes.
Symbiotic interaction among legume and rhizobia is a complex phenomenon which results in the formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules. Mung bean is promiscuous host however expression profile of this important legume plant in response to rhizobial infection was particularly lacking and urgently needed. We have demonstrated the pattern of gene expression of mung bean roots inoculated with two symbionts Bradyrhizobium yuanmingense Vr50 and Sinorhizobium (Ensifer) aridi Vr33 and non-inoculated control (CK). The RNA-Seq data analyzed at two growth stages i.e., 1-3 h and 10-16 days post inoculation revealed significantly higher number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) at nodulation stage. The DEGs encoding receptor kinases identified at early stage might be involved in perception of Nod factors produced by different rhizobia. At nodulation stage important genes involved in plant hormone signal transduction, nitrogen and sulfur metabolism were identified. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis showed that metabolic pathways were most prominent in both groups (Group 1: Vr33 vs CK; Group 2: Vr50 vs CK), followed by biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, plant hormone signal transduction and biosynthesis of amino acids. Furthermore, DEGs involved in cell communication and plant hormone signal transduction were found to be different among two symbiotic systems while DEGs involved in carbon, nitrogen and sulfur metabolism were similar but their expression varied in response to two rhizobial strains. This study provides the first insight into the mechanisms underlying interactions of mung bean host with two taxonomically different symbionts (Bradyrhizobium and Sinorhizobium) and the candidate genes for better understanding the mechanisms of symbiotic host-speciﬁcity.
Vigna reflexo-pilosa (créole bean) is a wild legume belonging to the subgenus Ceratoropis and is widely distributed in Asia. Créole bean is the only tetraploid species in the genus Vigna, and it has been shown to derive from the hybridization of Vigna hirtella and Vigna trinervia. In this study, we combined the long-read PacBio technology with the chromatin contact mapping (Hi-C) technique to obtain a chromosome-level assembly of V. reflexo-pilosa. The final assembly contained 998,724,903 bases with an N50 length of 42,545,650 bases. Our gene prediction recovered 99.4% of the highly conserved orthologs based on the BUSCO analysis. To investigate homoeolog expression bias and expression level dominance in the tetraploid, we also sequenced and assembled the genomes of its progenitors. Overall, the majority of the homoeolog pairs (72.9%) displayed no expression bias, and among those that exhibited biased expression, 16.3% showed unbalanced homoeolog expression bias toward the V. trinervia subgenome. Moreover, 41.2% and 36.2% of the expressed gene pairs exhibited transgressive expression and expression level dominance, respectively. Interestingly, the genome-wide expression level dominance in the tetraploid was biased toward the V. trinervia subgenome. The analysis of methylation patterns also revealed that the average methylation levels in coding regions were higher in the V. hirtella subgenome than those in the V. trinervia subgenome. The genomic/transcriptomic resources for these three species are useful not only for the development of elite cultivars in Vigna breeding programs but also to researchers studying comparative genomics and investigating genomic/epigenomic changes following polyploid events.
Plant glutamate receptor proteins (GLRs) are involved in plant development, biotic stress, and light-signal transduction. Vigna angularis is a traditional crop with important economic value in China, and the identification of functional genes can facilitate the breeding of stress resistant varieties. Here, we identified the members of the GLR gene family in the adzuki bean genome and investigated gene expression under light and rust fungal (Uromyces vignae) stimuli. Sixteen GLR genes were identified in V. angularis (VaGLRs), and these genes clustered in a single clade (clade III) with two groups. Evolutionary analysis showed that three VaGLRs result from tandem duplications and four result from whole genome/segmental duplications. To understand the regulation of expression of VaGLRs, cis-acting elements were analyzed in the promoter regions of the VaGLRs including cis-acting elements associated with light and stress responsiveness. Expression analysis by qRT-PCR revealed transcripts of eight and 10 VaGLRs in response to light stimuli and rust infection, respectively. For light responsiveness, the expression levels of XP_017430569.1 and XP_017425299.1 were higher under light condition than in darkness, while the expression levels of XP_017406996.1, XP_017425763.1, and XP_017423557.1 gradually recovered during dark treatment. Additionally, the relative expression levels of XP_017413816.1, XP_017436268.1, and XP_017425299.1 were significantly elevated during U. vignae infection in a resistant cultivar compared to the expression levels in a susceptible cultivar. XP_017425299.1 expression was induced both by light and rust infection, suggesting this gene may link light and disease resistance signaling pathways. Our results provide insight into how the VaGLRs contribute to adzuki bean response to light stimulus and pathogen attack. These identified VaGLRs also provide important reference to improve adzuki bean germplasm resources.
Cancer cell dissemination is sustained by cell-autonomous and non-cell-autonomous functions. To disentangle the role of HGF (Hepatocyte Growth Factor) and MET ligand/receptor axis in this complex process, we genetically knocked out the MET gene in cancer cells in which MET is not the oncogenic driver. In this way, we evaluated the contribution of the HGF/MET axis to cancer cell dissemination independently of its direct activities in cells of the tumor microenvironment. The lack of MET expression in MET
Domestication is the long and complex process underlying the evolution of crops, in which artificial directional selection transformed wild progenitors into the desired form, affecting genomic variation and leaving traces of selection at targeted loci. However, whether genes controlling important domestication traits follow the same evolutionary pattern expected under the standard selective sweep model remains unclear. With whole-genome resequencing of mungbean (Vigna radiata), we investigated this issue by resolving its global demographic history and targeted dissection of the molecular footprints of genes underlying 2 key traits representing different stages of domestication. Mungbean originated in Asia, and the Southeast Asian wild population migrated to Australia about 50 thousand generations ago. Later in Asia, the cultivated form diverged from the wild progenitor. We identified the gene associated with the pod shattering resistance trait, VrMYB26a, with lower expression across cultivars and reduced polymorphism in the promoter region, reflecting a hard selective sweep. On the other hand, the stem determinacy trait was associated with VrDet1. We found that 2 ancient haplotypes of this gene have lower gene expression and exhibited intermediate frequencies in cultivars, consistent with selection favoring independent haplotypes in a soft selective sweep. In mungbean, contrasting signatures of selection were identified from the detailed dissection of 2 important domestication traits. The results suggest complex genetic architecture underlying the seemingly simple process of directional artificial selection and highlight the limitations of genome-scan methods relying on hard selective sweeps.
Selenium (Se) biofortification of crops has been studied to substantially improve the Se content in human dietary food intake. In the present study, Vigna radiata (mung bean) seeds were soaked in different concentrations of sodium selenite (Na
Black mung bean is rich in anthocyanin, however, the accumulation and the molecular mechanism of anthocyanin synthesis in black mung bean are unclear. In this study, anthocyanin metabolomics and transcriptomics on the seed coats of two different colors of mung bean were performed to clarify the composition of anthocyanins, and identify transcription factors involved in regulating anthocyanin biosynthesis. In the mature stage, 23 kinds of anthocyanin compounds were identified. All anthocyanin components contents were significantly higher in seed coat of black mung bean compare with green mung bean. Transcriptome analysis suggested that most of the structural genes for anthocyanin biosynthesis and some potential regulatory genes were significantly differentially expressed. WGCNA suggested VrMYB90 was an important regulatory gene in anthocyanin biosynthesis. Arabidopsis thaliana overexpressing VrMYB90 showed significant accumulation of anthocyanins. PAL, 4CL, DFR, F3'5'H, LDOX, F3'H and UFGT were up-regulated in 35S:VrMYB90 Arabidopsis thaliana. These findings provide valuable information for understanding the synthesis mechanism of anthocyanins in black mung bean seed coats.
Drought is a major factor that limiting mung bean development. To clarify the molecular mechanism of mung bean in response to drought stress, 2 mung bean groups were established, the experimental group (drought-treated) and the control group (normal water management). With prominent difference of 2 groups in stomatal conductance, relative water content and phenotype, leaf samples were collected at 4 stages, and the physiological index of MDA, POD, chlorophyll, and soluble proteins were estimated. RNA-seq was used to obtain high quality data of samples, and differentially expressed genes were identified by DESeq2. With GO and KEGG analysis, DEGs were enriched into different classifications and pathways. WGCNA was used to detect the relationship between physiological traits and genes, and qPCR was performed to confirm the accuracy of the data. We obtained 169.49 Gb of clean data from 24 samples, and the Q30 of each date all exceeded 94%. In total, 8963 DEGs were identified at 4 stages between the control and treated samples, and the DEGs were involved in most biological processes. 1270 TFs screened from DEGs were clustered into 158 TF families, such as AP2, RLK-Pelle-DLSVA, and NAC TF families. Genes related to physiological traits were closely related to plant hormone signaling, carotenoid biosynthesis, chlorophyll metabolism, and protein processing. This paper provides a large amount of data for drought research in mung bean.
Reduced crop productivity results from altered plant physiological processes caused by dysfunctional proteins due to environmental stressors. In this study, a novel DnaJ Type-I encoding gene,
Vigna mungo, a highly consumed crop in the pan-Asian countries, is vulnerable to several biotic and abiotic stresses. Understanding the post-transcriptional gene regulatory cascades, especially alternative splicing (AS), may underpin large-scale genetic improvements to develop stress-resilient varieties. Herein, a transcriptome based approach was undertaken to decipher the genome-wide AS landscape and splicing dynamics in order to establish the intricacies of their functional interactions in various tissues and stresses. RNA sequencing followed by high-throughput computational analyses identified 54,526 AS events involving 15,506 AS genes that generated 57,405 transcripts isoforms. Enrichment analysis revealed their involvement in diverse regulatory functions and demonstrated that transcription factors are splicing-intensive, splice variants of which are expressed differentially across tissues and environmental cues. Increased expression of a splicing regulator NHP2L1/SNU13 was found to co-occur with lower intron retention events. The host transcriptome is significantly impacted by differential isoform expression of 1172 and 765 AS genes that resulted in 1227 (46.8% up and 53.2% downregulated) and 831 (47.5% up and 52.5% downregulated) transcript isoforms under viral pathogenesis and Fe
Alternative splicing (AS) is a crucial regulatory mechanism that impacts transcriptome and proteome complexity under stressful situations. Although its role in abiotic stresses is somewhat understood, our understanding of the mechanistic regulation of pre-messenger RNA splicing in plant-pathogen interaction is meager. To comprehend this unexplored immune reprogramming mechanism, transcriptome profiles of Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV)-resistant and susceptible Vigna mungo genotypes were analyzed for AS genes that may underlie the resistance mechanism. Results revealed a repertoire of AS-isoforms accumulated during pathogenic infestation, with intron retention being the most common AS mechanism. Identification of 688 differential alternatively spliced (DAS) genes in the resistant host elucidates its robust antiviral response, whereas 322 DAS genes were identified in the susceptible host. Enrichment analyses confirmed DAS transcripts pertaining to stress, signaling, and immune system pathways have undergone maximal perturbations. Additionally, a strong regulation of the splicing factors has been observed both at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. qPCR validation of candidate DAS transcripts with induced expression upon MYMIV infection demonstrated a competent immune response in the resistant background. The AS-impacted genes resulted either in partial/complete loss of functional domains or altered sensitivity to micro-RNA-mediated gene silencing. A complex regulatory module, miR7517-ATAF2, has been identified in an aberrantly spliced ATAF2 isoform that exposes an intronic miR7517 binding site, thereby suppressing the negative regulator to enhance the defense reaction. The present study establishes AS as a noncanonical immune reprogramming mechanism that operates in parallel, thereby offering an alternative strategy for developing yellow mosaic-resistant V. mungo cultivars.
Callosobruchus chinensis (Coleoptera: Fabaceae) is a worldwide pest that feeds exclusively on legumes, and is the most serious pest affecting mung beans. Usually, the insect olfactory system plays a predominant role in searching for host plants and egg-laying locations. Chemosensory proteins (CSPs), are mainly responsible for transporting specific odour molecules from the environment. In this study, we found that the CSP1 gene of adult C. chinensis displayed antennae-biased expression using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis. The binding properties of 23 mung bean volatiles were then determined through several analyses of in vitro recombinant CSP1 protein, including fluorescence competitive binding assay, homology modelling, molecular docking, and site-directed mutagenesis. Fluorescence competitive binding assays showed that CchiCSP1 protein could bind to four mung bean volatiles and was most stable at pH 7.4. After site-directed mutation of three key amino acid bases (L39, V25, and Y35), their binding affinities to each ligand were significantly decreased or lost. This indicated that these three amino acid residues may be involved in the binding of CchiCSP1 to different ligands. We further used Y-tube behavioural bioassays to find that the four mung bean volatiles had a significant attraction or repulsion response in adult C. chinensis. The above findings confirm that the CchiCSP1 protein may be involved in the response of C. chinensis to mung bean volatiles and plays an important role in olfactory-related behaviours. The four active volatiles are expected to develop into new behavioural attractants or repellents in the future.
In plants, RNA silencing is an important conserved mechanism to regulate gene expression and combat against abiotic and biotic stresses. Dicer-like (DCL) and Argonaute (AGO) proteins and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR) are the core elements involved in gene silencing and their gene families have been explored in many plants. However, these genes and their responses to stresses have not yet been well characterized in adzuki bean. A total of 11 AGO, 7 DCL and 6 RDR proteins were identified, and phylogenetic analyses of these proteins showed that they clustered into six, four and four clades respectively. The expression patterns of these genes in susceptible or resistant adzuki bean cultivars challenged with drought, bean common mosaic virus and Podosphaera xanthii infections were further validated by quantitative RT-PCR. The different responses of these proteins under abiotic and biotic stresses indicated their specialized regulatory mechanisms. In this study, 24 genes of the DCL, AGO and RDR gene families in adzuki bean were identified, and the sequence characterization, structure of the encoded proteins, evolutionary relationship with orthologues in other legumes and gene expression patterns under drought and biotic stresses were primarily explored, which enriched our understanding of these genes in adzuki bean. Our findings provide a foundation for the comparative genomic analyses of RNA silencing elements in legume plants and further new insights into the functional complexity of RNA silencing in the response to various stresses in adzuki bean.
Cicer arietinum, Cajanus cajan, Vigna radiata, and Phaseolus vulgaris are economically important legume crops with high nutritional value. They are negatively impacted globally by different biotic and abiotic stresses. Hyperosmolality-gated calcium-permeable channels (OSCA) have been characterized as osmosensors in Arabidopsis thaliana but have not previously reported in legumes. This study provides a genome-wide identification, characterization, and comparative analysis of OSCA genes in legumes. Our study identified and characterized 13 OSCA genes in C. cajan, V. radiata, P. vulgaris, and 12 in C. arietinum, classified into four distinct clades. We found evidence to suggest that the OSCAs might be involved in the interaction between hormone signalling pathways and stress signalling pathways. Furthermore, they play a major role in plant growth and development. The expression levels of the OSCAs vary under different stress conditions in a tissue-specific manner. Our study can be used to develop a detailed understanding of stress regulatory mechanisms of the OSCA gene family in legumes.
Iron is a crucial nutrient for biological functions in plants. High-pH and calcareous soil is a major stress causing iron deficiency chlorosis (IDC) symptoms and yield losses in crops. Use of calcareous soil-tolerance genetic resources is the most effective preventative method to combat the effects of high-pH and calcareous soils. A previous study using a mungbean recombinant inbred line (RIL) population of the cross Kamphaeg Saen 2 (KPS2; IDC susceptible) × NM-10-12 identified a major quantitative trait locus (QTL), qIDC3.1, which controls resistance and explains more than 40% of IDC variation. In this study, we fine-mapped qIDC3.1 and identified an underlying candidate gene. A genome wide association analysis (GWAS) using 162 mungbean accessions identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on chromosome 6; several SNPs were associated with soil plant analysis development (SPAD) values and IDC visual scores of mungbeans planted on calcareous soil, respectively. These SNPs corresponded to qIDC3.1. Using the same RIL population as in the previous study and an advanced backcross population developed from KPS2 and IDC-resistant inbred line RIL82, qIDC3.1 was further confirmed and fine-mapped to an interval of 217 kilobases harboring five predicted genes, including LOC106764181 (VrYSL3), which encodes a yellow stripe1-like-3 (YSL3) protein, YSL3 is involved in iron deficiency resistance. Gene expression analysis revealed that VrYSL3 was highly expressed in mungbean roots. In calcareous soil, expression of VrYSL3 was significantly up-regulated, and it was more obviously upregulated in the roots of RIL82, than in those of KPS2. Sequence comparison of VrYSL3 between the RIL82 and KPS2 revealed four SNPs that result in amino acid changes in the VrYSL3 protein and a 20-bp insertion/deletion in the promoter where a cis-regulatory element resides. Transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants overexpressing VrYSL3 showed enhanced iron and zinc contents in the leaves. Taken together, these results indicate that VrYSL3 is a strong candidate gene responsible for calcareous soil resistance in mungbean.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is a legume staple widely grown across Sub-Saharan Africa and other tropical and sub-tropical regions. Considering projected climate change and global population increases, cowpea's adaptation to hot climates, resistance to drought, and nitrogen-fixing capabilities make it an especially attractive crop for facing future challenges. Despite these beneficial traits, efficient varietal improvement is challenging in cowpea due to its recalcitrance to transformation and long regeneration times. Transient gene expression assays can provide solutions to alleviate these issues as they allow researchers to test gene editing constructs before investing in the time and resource- intensive process of transformation. In this study, we developed an improved cowpea protoplast isolation protocol, a transient protoplast assay, and an agroinfiltration assay to be used for initial testing and validation of gene editing constructs and for gene expression studies. To test these protocols, we assessed the efficacy of a CRISPR-Cas9 construct containing four multiplexed single-guide RNA (sgRNA) sequences using polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated transformation and agroinfiltration with phytoene desaturase (PDS) as the target gene. Sanger sequencing of DNA from transformed protoplasts and agroinfiltrated cowpea leaves revealed several large deletions in the target sequences. The protoplast system and agroinfiltration protocol developed in this study provide versatile tools to test gene editing components before initiating plant transformation, thus improving the chance of using active sgRNAs and attaining the desired edits and target phenotype.
Pod dehiscence is a major source of yield loss in legumes, which is exacerbated by aridity. Disruptive mutations in "Pod indehiscent 1" (PDH1), a pod sclerenchyma-specific lignin biosynthesis gene, has been linked to significant reductions in dehiscence in several legume species. We compared syntenic PDH1 regions across 12 legumes and two outgroups to uncover key historical evolutionary trends at this important locus. Our results clarified the extent to which PDH1 orthologs are present in legumes, showing the typical genomic context surrounding PDH1 has only arisen relatively recently in certain phaseoloid species (Vigna, Phaseolus, Glycine). The notable absence of PDH1 in Cajanus cajan may be a major contributor to its indehiscent phenotype compared with other phaseoloids. In addition, we identified a novel PDH1 ortholog in Vigna angularis and detected remarkable increases in PDH1 transcript abundance during Vigna unguiculata pod development. Investigation of the shared genomic context of PDH1 revealed it lies in a hotspot of transcription factors and signaling gene families that respond to abscisic acid and drought stress, which we hypothesize may be an additional factor influencing expression of PDH1 under specific environmental conditions. Our findings provide key insights into the evolutionary history of PDH1 and lay the foundation for optimizing the pod dehiscence role of PDH1 in major and understudied legume species.
Vigna radiata L., an imperative legume crop of Pakistan, faces hordes of damage due to fungi; infecting host tissues by the appressorium. The use of natural compounds is an innovative concern to manage mung-bean fungal diseases. The bioactive secondary metabolites of Penicillium species are well documented for their strong fungi-static ability against many pathogens. Presently, one-month-old aqueous culture filtrates of Penicillium janczewskii, P. digitatum, P. verrucosum, P. crustosum, and P. oxalicum were evaluated to check the antagonistic effect of different dilutions (0, 10, 20, … and 60%). There was a significant reduction of around 7-38%, 46-57%, 46-58%, 27-68%, and 21-51% in Phoma herbarum dry biomass production due to P. janczewskii, P. digitatum, P. verrucosum, P. crustosum, and P. oxalicum, respectively. Inhibition constants determined by a regression equation demonstrated the most significant inhibition by P. janczewskii. Finally, using real-time reverse transcription PCR (qPCR) the effect of P. Janczewskii metabolites was determined on the transcript level of StSTE12 gene involved in the development and penetration of appressorium. The expression pattern of the StSTE12 gene was determined by percent Knockdown (%KD) expression that was found to be decreased i.e. 51.47, 43.22, 40.67, 38.01, 35.97, and 33.41% for P. herbarum with an increase in metabolites concentrations viz., 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 and 60% metabolites, respectively. In silico studies were conducted to analyze the role of Ste12 a transcriptional factor in the MAPK signaling pathway. The present study concludes a strong fungicidal potential of Penicillium species against P. herbarum. Further studies to isolate the effective fungicidal constituents of Penicillium species through GCMS analysis and determination of their role in signaling pathways are requisite.
WRKY-, PHD-, and MYB-like proteins are three important types of transcription factors in mungbeans, and play an important role in development and stress resistance. The genes' structures and characteristics were clearly reported and were shown to contain the conservative WRKYGQK heptapeptide sequence, Cys4-His-cys3 zinc binding motif, and HTH (helix) tryptophan cluster W structure, respectively. Knowledge on the response of these genes to salt stress is largely unknown. To address this issue, 83 VrWRKYs, 47 VrPHDs, and 149 VrMYBs were identified by using comparative genomics, transcriptomics, and molecular biology methods in mungbeans. An intraspecific synteny analysis revealed that the three gene families had strong co-linearity and an interspecies synteny analysis showed that mungbean and
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are acquired bone marrow malignant disorders characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis, resulting from a complex interaction between genetic and epigenetic mutations, alterations of the marrow microenvironment, and the immune system. In 2001, the World Health Organization (WHO) proposed a classification that integrates morphologic and genetic information, considering the MDS with ring sideroblasts (MDS-RS) as a distinct entity. Considering the strong association between MDS-RS and SF3B1 mutation and its importance in the development of MDS, the last WHO classification replaced the prior entity of MDS-RS with MDS with SF3B1 mutation. Several studies were performed to explore this genotype-phenotype correlation. Mutant SF3B1 protein deregulates the expression of genes implicated in developing hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Of paramount importance are PPOX and ABCB7 involved in iron metabolism. Another essential role in hemopoiesis is played by the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) receptor. This gene exerts its effects on SMAD pathways, regulating hematopoiesis through effects on balancing proliferation and apoptosis cell inactivity, differentiation, and migration. Luspatercept (ACE-536) is a soluble fusion protein that inhibits molecules in the TGF-β superfamily. Since its structure resembles the TGF-β family receptor, it catches TGF-β superfamily ligands before binding to the receptor, resulting in reduced activation of SMAD signaling, thus enabling erythroid maturation. Luspatercept was investigated in the phase III trial MEDALIST, showing promising efficacy in treating anemia compared to placebo. Nowadays, further studies are needed to explore the real potential of luspatercept, investigating the biological features likely associated with treatment response, the potential use in combination treatments, and its role in the treatment of naïve MDS.
It is an important way for healthy Selenium (Se) supplement to transform exogenous Se into organic Se through crops. In the present study,
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is a crucial crop for regions of the world that are prone to both heat and drought; however, the phytotoxic cowpea aphid (Aphis craccivora) impairs plant physiology at low population levels. Both antibiotic and antixenotic forms of resistance to the aphid have been mapped to two quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and near isogenic lines (NILs). The molecular mechanism for this resistance response remains unknown. To understand the genes underlying susceptibility and resistance, two cowpea lines with shared heritage were infested along a time course and characterized for transcriptome variation. Aphids remodeled cowpea development and signaling relative to host plant resistance and the duration of feeding, with resource acquisition and mobilization determining, in part, susceptibility to aphid attack. Major differences between the susceptible and resistant cowpea were identified including two regions of interest housing the most genetic differences between the lines. Candidate genes enabling aphid resistance include both conventional resistance genes (e.g., leucine rich repeat protein kinases) as well as multiple novel genes with no known orthologues. Our results demonstrate that feeding by the cowpea aphid globally remodels the transcriptome of cowpea, but how this occurs depends on both the duration of feeding and host-plant resistance. Constitutive expression profiles of the resistant genotype link aphid resistance to a finely-tuned resource management strategy that ultimately reduces damage (e.g., chlorosis) and delays cell turnover, while impeding aphid performance. Thus, aphid resistance in cowpea is a complex, multigene response that involves crosstalk between primary and secondary metabolism.
Novel function and mechanism of a PNP molecule VaEG45 from adzuki bean involved in plant immunity. Plant natriuretic peptides (PNPs) can affect a broad spectrum of physiological responses in plants acting as peptidic signaling molecules. However, PNPs may play additional roles in plant immunity. Our previous transcriptome data of adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) in response to Uromyces vignae infection revealed association of PNP-encoding gene VaEG45 with U. vignae resistance. To determine the function of VaEG45 in disease resistance, we cloned the 589 bp nucleotide sequence of VaEG45 containing 2 introns, encoding a putative 13.68 kDa protein that is 131 amino acids in length. We analyzed expression in different resistant cultivars of V. angularis and found significant induction of VaEG45 expression after U. vignae infection. Transient expression of VaEG45 improved tobacco resistance against Botrytis cinerea. We next analyzed the mechanism by which VaEG45 protects plants from fungal infection by determination of the biological activity of the prokaryotic expressed VaEG45. The results showed that the fusion protein VaEG45 can significantly inhibit urediospores germination of U. vignae, mycelial growth, and the infection of tobacco by B. cinerea. Further analysis revealed that VaEG45 exhibits β-1, 3-glucanase activity. These findings uncover the function of a novel PNP molecule VaEG45 and provide new evidence about the mechanism of PNPs in plant immunity.
Priestia species isolated from the cowpea rhizosphere altered the transcriptome of cowpea roots by colonization and enhanced nutrient uptake, antioxidant mechanisms, and photosynthesis, protecting cowpea from drought and nutrient deficiency. Cowpea is a significant grain legume crop primarily grown in sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, and South America. Drought and nutrient deficiency affect the growth and yield of cowpea. To address this challenge, we studied the phyto-beneficial effects of stress-tolerant rhizobacteria on the biomass yield of cowpea under water- and nutrient-deficit conditions. Among the bacteria isolated, two rhizobacillus genotypes, C8 (Priestia filamentosa; basonym: Bacillus filamentosus) and C29 (Priestia aryabhattai; basonym: Bacillus aryabhattai) were evaluated for the improvement of seed germination and growth of cowpea under stress. Our study revealed that C8 protected cowpea from stress by facilitating phosphorus and potassium uptake, protecting it from oxidative damage, reducing transpiration, and enhancing CO
New therapeutic strategies for glioblastoma treatment, especially tackling the tumour's glioblastoma stem cell (GSC) component, are an urgent medical need. Recently, mitochondrial translation inhibition has been shown to affect GSC growth, clonogenicity, and self-renewal capability, therefore becoming an attractive therapeutic target. The combination of streptogramins B and A antibiotics quinupristin/dalfopristin (Q/D), which inhibits mitochondrial ribosome function, affects GSCs more effectively in vitro than the standard of care temozolomide. Here, docking calculations based on the cryo-EM structure of the Q/D-bound mitochondrial ribosome have been used to develop a series of streptogramin A derivatives. We obtained twenty-two new and known molecules starting from the dalfopristin and virginiamycin M1 scaffolds. A structure-activity relationship refinement was performed to evaluate the capability of these compounds to suppress GSC growth and inhibit mitochondrial translation, either alone or in combination with quinupristin. Finally, quantitative ultra HPLC-mass spectrometry allowed us to assess the cell penetration of some of these derivatives. Among all, the fluorine derivatives of dalfopristin and virginiamycin M1, (16R)-1e and (16R)-2e, respectively, and flopristin resulted in being more potent than the corresponding lead compounds and penetrating to a greater extent into the cells. We, therefore, propose these three compounds for further evaluation in vivo as antineoplastic agents.
Bradyrhizobium guangxiense CCBAU53363 efficiently nodulates peanut but exhibits incompatible interaction with mung bean. By comparing the common
It has been shown that multidrug and toxic compound extrusion/detoxification (MATE/DTX) family transporters are involved in the regulation of plant development and stress response. Here, we characterized the
Mung bean is an important grain-legume crop and its sprout is an economical and nutrient vegetable for the public, but the genetic regulation of anthocyanin production, which is an antioxidant in mung bean, remains elusive. In our study, we characterized a subgroup (SG) 6 R2R3-MYB anthocyanin activator VrMYB90 and a SG 4 R2R3-MYB anthocyanin repressor VrMYB3, which synergistically function in regulating anthocyanin synthesis with VrbHLHA transcription factor. The overexpressed VrMYB90 protein activates the expression of VrMYB3 and VrbHLHA in mung bean hair roots, and also promotes VrDFR and VrANS transcript levels by directly binding to the corresponding promoters at specific motifs (CAACTG and CCGTTG). VrMYB90 interacts with VrbHLHA to enhance its regulatory activities on VrDFR and VrANS. Furthermore, the interaction between VrMYB3 with VrMYB90 and VrbHLHA could result in the restriction of anthocyanin synthesis to prevent excessive anthocyanin accumulation. Our results demonstrate that the VrMYB90 protein, in conjunction with VrMYB3 and VrbHLHA, forms a key regulatory module to fine-tune anthocyanin synthesis in mung bean.
Cowpea is sensitive to drought and heat stress, particularly at the reproductive stages of development. Both stresses limit growth and yield, and their effect is more devastating when occurring concurrently. Dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2A (DREB2A) is an important signaling hub integrating information about two different abiotic stresses, drought and heat. We identified VuDREB2A as a canonical DREB ortholog in cowpea, activating downstream stress-responsive genes by binding to DREs in their promoter. Post-translational modification of a negative regulatory domain (NRD) within the VuDREB2A protein prevents its degradation. Targeted deletion of the NRD produces a stable and constitutively active form VuDREB2A-CA. However, there is very little evidence of its practical utility under field conditions. This study overexpressed the VuDREB2A-CA in a popular cowpea variety and conducted drought- and heat-tolerance experiments across various stress regimes. Transgenic cowpea exhibited significant tolerance with consistently higher yield when exposed to over 30-d drought stress and 3-d exposure to high temperature (28 °C-52 °C) without any pleiotropic alterations. The transgenic lines showed higher photosynthetic efficiency, osmotic adjustment, antioxidant defense, thermotolerance, and significantly higher survival and increased biomass than the wild type. Late embryogenesis abundant 5, heat shock protein 70, dehydrin, mitogen-activated protein kinase 2/4, isoflavonoid reductase, and myoinositol phosphate synthase were upregulated in transgenic lines under drought and heat stress. Through transcriptome analysis of the transgenic lines, we found significant up-regulation of various stress-responsive cowpea genes, having DRE in their promoter. Our results suggest that overexpression of VuDREB2A could improve cowpea production under drought and high temperatures.
Adzuki bean is an important legume crop originating in temperate regions, with photoperiod in sensitivity being a key factor in its latitudinal adaptation. The
Broad diversity of flowers in Fabaceae provides a good system to investigate development and evolution of floral symmetry in higher plants. Many studies have demonstrated a conserved mechanism controlling development of zygomorphic flower during last decades. However, the molecular basis of how asymmetric flower established is largely unknown. In this study, we characterized mutants named
NAC (NAM/ATAF1/2/CUC2) transcription factors are central switches of growth and stress responses in plants. However, unpredictable interspecies conservation of function and regulatory targets makes the well-studied NAC orthologs inapt for pulse engineering. The knowledge of suitable NAC candidates in hardy pulses like cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is still in infancy, hence warrants immediate biotechnological intervention. Here, we showed that overexpression of two native NAC genes (VuNAC1 and VuNAC2) promoted germinative, vegetative, and reproductive growth and conferred multiple abiotic stress tolerance in a commercial cowpea variety. The transgenic lines displayed increased leaf area, thicker stem, nodule-rich denser root system, early flowering, higher pod production (∼3.2-fold and ∼2.1-fold), and greater seed weight (10.3% and 6.0%). In contrast, transient suppression of VuNAC1/2 caused severe growth retardation and flower inhibition. The overexpressor lines showed remarkable tolerance to major yield-declining terminal stresses, such as drought, salinity, heat, and cold, and recovered growth and seed production by boosting photosynthetic activity, water use efficiency, membrane integrity, Na
Anthocyanins are water-soluble pigments present in several tissues/parts of plants. The pigments provide color and are wildly known for health benefits for human, insect attraction for plant pollination, and stress resistance in plants. Anthocyanin content variations in mungbean [
The main aim of this study was to identify the bZIP family members in mung bean and explore their expression patterns under several abiotic stresses, with the overarching goal of elucidating their biological functions. Results identified 75 bZIP members in mung bean, which were unevenly distributed in the chromosomes (1-11), and all had a highly conserved bZIP domain. Phylogenetic analysis divided the members into 10 subgroups, with members in the same subgroup having similar structure and motif. The
The flowering characteristics of adzuki bean are influenced by several environmental factors. Light is an important ecological factor that induces flowering in adzuki bean, but to date, there have been few reports on the transcriptomic features of photoperiodic regulation of adzuki bean flowering. This study is based on RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) techniques to elucidate the expression of light-related regulatory genes under short-day photoperiod inducement of adzuki bean flowering, providing an important theoretical basis for its accelerated breeding. Short-day photoperiod inducement of 10 h was conducted for 5 day, 10 day, and 15 day periods on "Tang shan hong xiao dou" varieties, which are more sensitive to short-day photoperiod conditions than the other varieties. Plants grown under natural light (14.5 h) for 5 days, 10 days, and 15 days were used as controls to compare the progress of flower bud differentiation and flowering characteristics. The topmost unfolded functional leaves were selected for transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. The short-day photoperiod inducement promoted flower bud differentiation and advanced flowering time in adzuki bean. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 5,608 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) for the combination of CK-5d vs. SD-5d, CK-10d vs. SD-10d, and CK-15d vs. SD-15d. The three groups of the DEGs were analyzed using the Gene Ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genomes and Genomes (KEGG) databases; the DEGs were associated with flowering, photosystem, and the circadian rhythm and were mainly concentrated in the hormone signaling and metabolism, circadian rhythm, and antenna protein pathways; So, 13 light-related genes across the three pathways were screened for differential and expression characteristics. Through the functional annotations of orthologs, these genes were related to flowering, which were supposed to be good candidate genes in adzuki bean. The findings provide a deep understanding of the molecular mechanisms of adzuki bean flowering in response to short-day photoperiod inducement, which laid a foundation for the functional verification of genes in the next step, and provide an important reference for the molecular breeding of adzuki bean.
Mung bean is a short-duration and essential food crop owing to its cash prominence in Asia. Mung bean seeds are rich in protein, fiber, antioxidants, and phytonutrients. The NAC transcription factors (TFs) family is a large plant-specific family, participating in tissue development regulation and abiotic and biotic stresses. In this study, we perform genome-wide comparisons of VrNAC with their homologs from Arabidopsis. We identified 81 NAC transcription factors (TFs) in mung bean genome and named as per their chromosome location. A phylogenetic analysis revealed that VrNACs are broadly distributed in nine groups. Moreover, we identified 20 conserved motifs across the VrNACs highlighting their roles in different biological process. Based on the gene structure of the putative VrNAC and segmental duplication events might be playing a vital role in the expansion of mung bean genome. A comparative phylogenetic analysis of mung bean NAC together with homologs from Arabidopsis allowed us to classify NAC genes into 13 groups, each containing several orthologs and paralogs. Gene ontology (GO) analysis categorized the VrNACs into biological process, cellular components and molecular functions, explaining the functions in different plant physiology processes. A gene co-expression network analysis identified 173 genes involved in the transcriptional network of putative VrNAC genes. We also investigated how miRNAs potentially target VrNACs and shape their interactions with proteins. VrNAC1.4 (Vradi01g03390.1) was targeted by the Vra-miR165 family, including 9 miRNAs. Vra-miR165 contributes to leaf development and drought tolerance. We also performed qRT-PCR on 22 randomly selected VrNAC genes to assess their expression patterns in the NM-98 genotype, widely known for being tolerant to drought and bacterial leaf spot disease. This genome-wide investigation of VrNACs provides a unique resource for further detailed investigations aimed at predicting orthologs functions and what role the play under abiotic and biotic stress, with the ultimate aim to improve mung bean production under diverse environmental conditions.
Phenolic compounds are one of the wholesome substances of mung bean sprouts, showing numerous health-promoting functions. Here, effects of sucrose on phenolic compounds profiles of mung bean sprouts were investigated. Results showed that the content and composition of phenolic compounds were significantly altered by 1‰ and 5‰ sucrose, respectively. The antioxidant capacity was significantly improved by sucrose. Based on metabolomics, 251 metabolites were detected, of which 106 were phenolic compounds. Correlation analysis showed 21 phenolics were positively correlated with antioxidant capacity. The changes in phenolic composition and antioxidant capacity after sucrose treatment were mainly due to the enrichment of phenolic biosynthesis pathways. Moreover, the gene expression and enzyme activity analysis of key phenolic biosynthetic genes contributed to elucidate the phenolic profile under sucrose treatment. In summary, mung bean sprouts are promising sources of dietary phenolic compounds and sucrose treatment is a good process to produce phenolic-rich mung bean sprouts.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek) is an important legume crop of Asia. Salt concentrations typically causes major yield reductions in mungbean. Although the biochemical and genetic basis of salt tolerance-related gene are well studied in Arabidopsis and soybean, limited information concerning the salt tolerance-related genes in mungbean. To address this issue, we mined salt tolerance related genes using the survival rate trait and 160,1405 SNPs in 112 mungbean accessions. As a result, VrFRO8 significantly associated with salt-stress were identified in the GWAS analysis. The candidate gene VrFRO8 was evidenced by comparative genomics, transcriptome and RT-qPCR analysis. The expression level of VrFRO8 was significantly up-regulated (P-value = 0.001) after salt treatment compared with the control group. Moreover, 188 genes and 158 transcription factors related to salt-stress signal transduction pathway were mined, and 18 genes (18/188) had higher expression level in the salt-tolerant varieties than salt-sensitive varieties. And, the function of VrFRO8 was predicted in mungbean, the protein interaction between VrFRO8 and seven related-genes were found by molecular structure analysis. VrFRO8 might reduce SOD contents by influence Fe
It is essential to develop high salt-tolerant rice varieties in order to cultivate the salt-affected lands. In this study, Na
Biofortification is a method that improves the nutritional value of food crops through conventional plant breeding. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of intra-amniotic administration of soluble extracts from zinc (Zn) biofortified and Zn standard cowpea ( Seven treatment groups were utilized: (1) No Injection; (2) 18 MΩ H2O; (3) 50 mg/mL Inulin; (4) 50 mg/mL BRS Pajeú soluble extract (Zn standard); (5) 50 mg/mL BRS Aracê soluble extract (Zn biofortified); (6) 50 mg/mL BRS Imponente soluble extract (Zn biofortified); (7) 50 mg/mL BRS Xiquexique soluble extract (Zn biofortified). Treatment groups with BRS Imponente and BRS Xiquexique reduced the abundance of This study demonstrates the potential nutritional benefit of standard and biofortified cowpea treatment groups to improve intestinal morphology, BBM functionality, inflammation, and gut microbiota, with the highest effect of BRS Xiquexique soluble extracts to improve assessed cecal microflora populations and intestinal morphology.
A variety of pesticides are often used in agricultural management to control target pests but may trigger disruptions in the metabolism of nontarget organisms, ultimately affecting crop quality. Acetamiprid (ACE) and cyromazine (CYR) are two frequently used insecticides on cowpea, so it is critical to understand whether these two insecticides cause metabolic disorders in cowpea quality changes and the mechanism by which they do so. Here, we used metabolomic and transcriptomic methods to explore the mechanisms of the effects of ACE, CYR, and their mixture (MIX) on cowpea. In this study, ACE, CYR and MIX had no significant effects on plant biomass or growth status but decreased the contents of starch, soluble protein, and total flavonoids. All treatments reduced the total flavonoid content, but MIX showed the largest reduction of 10.02%. Metabolomic and transcriptomic analyses revealed that ACE markedly affected amino acid metabolism, and CYR and MIX affected sugar metabolism and flavonoid synthesis pathways. ACE and CYR reduced the levels of alanine, glutamic acid, isoleucine and phenylalanine and the expression of amino acid-related genes in cowpea, while MIX significantly increased the levels of most amino acids. All pesticide treatments reduced saccharide levels and related genes, with the most pronounced reduction in the MIX treatment. Exposure to ACE decreased the content of naringenin chalcone and quercetin and increased the content of anthocyanins in cowpeas, while MIX caused a significant decrease in the contents of quercetin and anthocyanins. According to the current study, single and mixed pesticides had different effects on the active ingredients of cowpea, with MIX causing the most significant decrease in the metabolite content of cowpea. These results provide important insights from a molecular perspective on how neonicotinoids and triazine insecticides affect cowpea metabolism.
CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED 1 like (CCA1L) proteins are important components that participate in plant growth and development, and now have been characterized in multiple plant species. However, information on mungbean CCA1L genes is limited. In this study, we identified 27 VrCCA1L genes from the mungbean genome. VrCCA1L genes were unevenly distributed on 10 of the 11 chromosomes and showed one tandem and two interchromosomal duplication events. Two distinct kinds of conserved MYB domains, MYB 1 and MYB 2, were found, and the conserved SHAQK(Y/F) F sequence was found at the C terminus of each MYB 2 domain. The VrCCA1Ls displayed a variety of exon-intron organizations, and 24 distinct motifs were found among these genes. Based on phylogenetic analysis, VrCCA1L proteins were classified into five groups; group I contained the most members, with 11 VrCCA1Ls. VrCCA1L promoters contained different types and numbers of cis-acting elements, and VrCCA1Ls showed different expression levels in different tissues. The VrCCA1Ls also displayed distinct expression patterns under different photoperiod conditions throughout the day in leaves. VrCCA1L26 shared greatest homology to Arabidopsis CCA1 and LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL (LHY). It delayed the flowering time in Arabidopsis by affecting the expression levels of CONSTANS (CO), FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT), and SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CONSTANS 1 (SOC1). We identified and characterized 27 VrCCA1L genes from mungbean genome, and investigated their spatio-temporal expression patterns. Further analysis revealed that VrCCA1L26 delayed flowering time in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Our results provide useful information for further functional characterization of the VrCCA1L genes.
Sugar transporter proteins (STPs) are membrane proteins required for sugar transport throughout cellular membranes. They plays an imperative role in sugar transmission across the plant and determinants of crop yield. However, the analysis of these important STPs Sugars Will Eventually be Exported Transporters (SWEET) family in legumes is still not well-documented and remains unclear. Therefore, the in-silico analysis of STPs has been performed to unravel their cellular, molecular, and structural composition in legume species. This study conducted a systematic search for STPs in Cajanus cajan using the Blastp algorithm to understand its molecular basis. Here, we performed a comprehensive analysis of 155 identified SWEET proteins across 12 legumes species, namely (Cajanus cajan, Glycine max, Vigna radiate, Vigna angularis, Medicago truncatula, Lupinus angustifolius, Glycine soja, Spatholobus suberectus, Cicer arietinum, Arachis ipaensis, Arachis hypogaea, Arachis duranensis). The amino acid composition and motif analysis revealed that SWEET proteins are rich in essential amino acids such as leucine, valine, isoleucine, phenylalanine, and serine while less profuse in glutamine, tryptophan, cysteine, and histidine. A total of four main conserved motifs of SWEET proteins are also highly abundant in these amino acids. The present study deciphered the details on primary physicochemical properties, secondary, tertiary structure, and phylogenetic analysis of SWEETs protein. Majorities of SWEET proteins (72.26%) are in stable form with an average instability index of 36.5%, and it comprises a higher fraction of positively charged amino acid Arg + Lys residues. Secondary structure analysis shown that these proteins are richer in alpha-helix (40%) than extended strand (30%) and random coil (25%), respectively. Furthermore, to infer their mechanism at a structural and functional level which play an essential roles in growth, development, and stress responses. This study will be useful to examine photosynthetic productivity, embryo sugar content, seed quality, and yield enhancement in Fabaceae for a sustainable source of essential amino acids and carbon source.
The underutilized species Vigna aconitifolia (Moth Bean) is an important legume crop cultivated in semi-arid conditions and is valued for its seeds for their high protein content. It is also a popular green manure cover crop that offers many agronomic benefits including nitrogen fixation and soil nutrients. Despite its economic potential, genomic resources for this crop are scarce and there is limited knowledge on the developmental process of this plant at a molecular level. In the present communication, we have studied the molecular mechanisms that regulate plant development in V. aconitifolia, with a special focus on flower and seed development. We believe that this study will greatly enrich the genomic resources for this plant in form of differentially expressed genes, transcription factors, and genic molecular markers. We have performed the de novo transcriptome assembly using six types of tissues from various developmental stages of Vigna aconitifolia (var. RMO-435), namely, leaves, roots, flowers, pods, and seed tissue in the early and late stages of development, using the Illumina NextSeq platform. We assembled the transcriptome to get 150938 unigenes with an average length of 937.78 bp. About 79.9% of these unigenes were annotated in public databases and 12839 of those unigenes showed a significant match in the KEGG database. Most of the unigenes displayed significant differential expression in the late stages of seed development as compared with leaves. We annotated 74082 unigenes as transcription factors and identified 12096 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) in the genic regions of V.aconitifolia. Digital expression analysis revealed specific gene activities in different tissues which were validated using Real-time PCR analysis. The Vigna aconitifolia transcriptomic resources generated in this study provide foundational resources for gene discovery with respect to various developmental stages. This study provides the first comprehensive analysis revealing the genes involved in molecular as well as metabolic pathways that regulate seed development and may be responsible for the unique nutritive values of moth bean seeds. Hence, this study would serve as a foundation for characterization of candidate genes which would not only provide novel insights into understanding seed development but also provide resources for improved moth bean and related species genetic enhancement.
Late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins are identified in many crops for their response and role in adaptation to various abiotic stresses, such as drought, salinity, and temperature. The
In plants, RNA interference (RNAi) is triggered by double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). Accordingly, various RNA silencing technologies involving hpRNA, artificial microRNA (miRNA), and virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) are used for controlling the expression of genes. Such manipulations help understanding gene functions and crop improvement biotechnology. A typical hpRNA construct is comprised of an intron splicable perfect inverted repeat of the target gene sequences under the control of a strong promoter. Geminiviruses, especially Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV) cause devastating diseases in legume plants including cowpea, incurring severe crop loss. RNAi, involving hpRNA construct as transgene, is used to control these diseases at the early stages of geminivirus infection in the host, preventing symptom development and viral DNA accumulation. In this chapter, we describe a detailed protocol for the identification of geminivirus isolates from the filed grown cowpea plants, characterization of virus isolates under the laboratory conditions, design and construct RNAi vectors for effective suppression of viral target genes, and consequent development of transgenic cowpea using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation protocol. These transgenics are subsequently evaluated for resistance to MYMIV.
Chewing herbivores activate plant defense responses through a combination of mechanical wounding and elicitation by herbivore-associated molecular patterns (HAMPs). HAMPs are wound response amplifiers; however, specific defense outputs may also exist that strictly require HAMP-mediated defense signaling. To investigate HAMP-mediated signaling and defense responses, we characterized cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) transcriptome changes following elicitation by inceptin, a peptide HAMP common in Lepidoptera larvae oral secretions. Following inceptin treatment, we observed large-scale reprogramming of the transcriptome consistent with three different response categories: (i) amplification of mechanical wound responses, (ii) temporal extension through accelerated or prolonged responses, and (iii) examples of inceptin-specific elicitation and suppression. At both early and late timepoints, namely 1 and 6 h, large sets of transcripts specifically accumulated following inceptin elicitation. Further early inceptin-regulated transcripts were classified as reversing changes induced by wounding alone. Within key signaling- and defense-related gene families, inceptin-elicited responses included target subsets of wound-induced transcripts. Transcripts displaying the largest inceptin-elicited fold changes included transcripts encoding terpene synthases (TPSs) and peroxidases (POXs) that correspond with induced volatile production and increased POX activity in cowpea. Characterization of inceptin-elicited cowpea defenses via heterologous expression in Nicotiana benthamiana demonstrated that specific cowpea TPSs and POXs were able to confer terpene emission and the reduced growth of beet armyworm (Spodoptera exigua) herbivores, respectively. Collectively, our present findings in cowpea support a model where HAMP elicitation both amplifies concurrent wound responses and specifically contributes to the activation of selective outputs associated with direct and indirect antiherbivore defenses.
Chilling injury of mung bean (Vigna radiata (L.)) during the blooming and podding stages is a major agricultural threat in Northeast China. Uniconazole (UNZ) can alleviate water deficit stress in soybean and waterlogging stress in mung bean. However, there has been no report on the effect of UNZ application on the growth and transcriptomic profile of mung bean under chilling stress. UNZ application before chilling stress at the R1 stage alleviated the decline in mung bean yield. UNZ delayed the decrease in leaf chlorophyll content under chilling stress at the R1 stage and accelerated the increase in leaf chlorophyll content during the recovery period. Eighteen separate RNA-Seq libraries were generated from RNA samples collected from leaves exposed to six different treatment schemes. The numbers of DEGs specific for UNZ treatment between D1 + S vs. D1 and D4 + S vs. D4 were 708 and 810, respectively. GO annotations showed that photosynthesis genes were obviously enriched among the genes affected by chilling stress and UNZ application. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis indicated that 4 pathways (cutin, suberin and wax biosynthesis; photosynthesis; porphyrin and chlorophyll metabolism; and ribosome) were downregulated, while plant-pathogen interaction was upregulated, by chilling stress. UNZ application effectively prevented the further downregulation of the gene expression of members of these 4 KEGG pathways under chilling stress. UNZ application effectively delayed the decrease in photosynthetic pigment content under chilling stress and accelerated the increase in photosynthetic pigment content during the recovery period, thus effectively limiting the decline in mung bean yield. UNZ application effectively prevented the further downregulation of the gene expression of members of 4 KEGG pathways under chilling stress and increased mung bean tolerance to chilling stress.
Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is one of the most tolerant legume crops to drought and salt stresses. WRKY transcription factor (TF) family members stand out among plant transcriptional regulators related to abiotic stress tolerance. However, little information is currently available on the expression of the cowpea WRKY gene family (VuWRKY) in response to water deficit. Thus, we analyzed genomic and transcriptomic data from cowpea to identify VuWRKY members and characterize their structure and transcriptional response under root dehydration stress. Ninety-two complete VuWRKY genes were found in the cowpea genome based on their domain characteristics. They were clustered into three groups: I (15 members), II (58), and III (16), while three genes were unclassified. Domain analysis of the encoded proteins identified four major variants of the conserved heptapeptide motif WRKYGQK. In silico analysis of VuWRKY gene promoters identified eight candidate binding motifs of cis-regulatory elements, regulated mainly by six TF families associated with abiotic stress responses. Ninety-seven VuWRKY modulated splicing variants associated with 55 VuWRKY genes were identified via RNA-Seq analysis available at the Cowpea Genomics Consortium (CpGC) database. qPCR analyses showed that 22 genes are induced under root dehydration, with VuWRKY18, 21, and 75 exhibiting the most significant induction levels. Given their central role in activating signal transduction cascades in abiotic stress response, the data provide a foundation for the targeted modification of specific VuWRKY family members to improve drought tolerance in this important climate-resilient legume in the developing world and beyond.
Mungbean yellow mosaic virus (MYMV) disease is a significant constraint for blackgram production. The present study employed a mapping population derived from a cross between susceptible (MDU 1) and resistant (TU 68) genotypes to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with MYMV disease resistance in addition to bruchine resistance loci identified from the previous study. Phenotyping was carried out in F2 generation under the disease spreader row method at field condition. Disease score observations were carried out 60 days after sowing (DAS). The chi-square goodness of fit test revealed inhibitory gene action with two genes controlling the expression of resistance to MYMV disease. However, QTL analysis revealed one major QTL region, i.e.
Shading stress strongly limits the effective growth of plants. Understanding how plant morphogenesis and physiological adaptation are generated in response to the reduced low light conditions is important for food crop development. In this study, two mung bean (
We analyze the application filed for the marketing and cultivation of genetically engineered Bt cowpea (event AAT 709A) approved in Nigeria in 2019. Cowpea (
Cadmium (Cd) accumulation in agricultural soils constitutes a serious problem for crop yields and food safety. It is known that proline (Pro) can rapidly accumulate in plant tissues in response to abiotic stress. To analyze the potential protective effect of Pro accumulation against Cd toxicity, we compared the response to Cd stress of wild-type (WT)
Multiple lines of evidence indicate that solar UV-B light acts as an important environmental signal in plants, regulating various cellular and metabolic activities, gene expression, growth and development. Here, we show that low levels of UV-B (4.0 kJ m-2) significantly influence plant response during early seedling development in the tropical legume crop Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek. Exposure to low doses of UV-B showed relatively less growth inhibition yet remarkably enhanced lateral root formation in seedlings. Both low and high (8.0 kJ m-2) doses of UV-B treatment induced DNA double-strand breaks and activated the SOG1-related ATM-ATR-mediated DNA damage response pathway. These effects led to G2-M-phase arrest with a compromised expression of the key cell cycle regulators, including CDKB1;1, CDKB2;1 and CYCB1;1, respectively. However, along with these effects, imbibitional exposure of seeds to a low UV-B dose resulted in enhanced accumulation of FZR1/CCS52A, E2Fa and WEE1 kinase and prominent induction of endoreduplication in 7-day-old seedlings. Low dose of UV-B mediated phenotypical responses, while the onset of endoreduplication appeared to be regulated at least in part via UV-B induced reactive oxygen species accumulation. Transcriptome analyses further revealed a network of co-regulated genes associated with DNA repair, cell cycle regulation and oxidative stress response pathways that are activated upon exposure to low doses of UV-B.
Due to drought stress, the growth, distribution, and production of mungbean is severely restricted. Previous study combining physiological and transcriptomic data indicated different genotypes of mungbean exhibited variable responses when exposed to drought stress. Aside from the genetic variation, the modifications of environmentally induced epigenetics alterations on mungbean drought-stress responses were still elusive. In this study, firstly, we compared the drought tolerance capacity at seedling stage by detecting physiological parameters in two contrasting genotypes wild mungbean 61 and cultivar 70 in response to drought stress. We found that wild mungbean 61 showed lower level of MDA and higher levels of POD and CAT, suggesting wild mungbean 61 exhibited stronger drought resistance. Transcriptomic analysis indicated totally 2859 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were detected when 70 compared with 61 (C70 vs C61), and the number increased to 3121 in the comparison of drought-treated 70 compared with drought-treated 61 (D70 vs D61). In addition, when drought-treated 61 and 70 were compared with their controls, the DEGs were 1117 and 185 respectively, with more down-regulated DEGs than up-regulated in D61 vs C61, which was opposite in D70 vs C70. Interestingly, corresponding to this, after drought stress, more hypermethylated differentially methylated regions (DMRs) in 61 were detected and more hypomethylated DMRs in 70 were detected. Further analysis suggested that the main variations between 61 and 70 existed in CHH methylation in promoter. Moreover, the preference of methylation status alterations in D61 vs C61 and D70 vs C70 also fell in CHH sequence context. Further analysis of the correlation between DMRs and DEGs indicated in both D61 vs C61 and D70 vs C70, the DMRs in gene body was significantly negatively correlated with DEGs. The physiological parameters in this research suggested that wild mungbean 61 was more resistant to drought stress, with more hypermethylated DMRs and less hypomethylated DMRs after drought stress, corresponding to more down-regulated DEGs than up-regulated DEGs. Among the three DNA methylation contexts CG, CHG, and CHH, asymmetric CHH contexts were more dynamic and prone to be altered by drought stress and genotypic variations.
In a breeding program, studies of genotypic and phenotypic relationships among agricultural crop traits are useful to design, evaluate, and develop selection criteria for desirable traits. Using path coefficient analysis, the present study was executed to estimate the phenotypic, genotypic, and environmental correlation coefficients between yield and yield-related traits and to determine the direct and indirect effects of yield-related traits on yield per plant. A total of 30 genotypes of Vigna subterranea were studied under tropical conditions at two sites over two planting seasons (considered as four environments). The experiment at each site used a randomized complete block design with three replicates. Data were collected on vegetative and yield component attributes. Based on analysis of variance, pooled results showed that there were positive and highly significant differences (p ≤ 0.01) among the 30 genotypes for all attributes studied. Highly significant and positive strong correlation at phenotypic level was observed for dry seed weight (0.856), hundred seed weight (0.754), fresh pod weight (0.789), and total pod weight (0.626) with yield in kg per hectare, while moderate positive correlations were observed for harvest cut (0.360) and days to maturity (0.356). However, a perfect positive correlation was observed for the dry weight of pods with seed yield. In contrast, days to 50% flowering (- 0.350) showed a negative significant relationship with yield per hectare. The dried pod weight attribute (1.00) had a high positive direct effect on yield. Fresh pod weight had the greatest indirect effect on yield per hectare, followed by the number of total pods by dry pod weight. As a result, dry pod weight, hundred seed weight, number of total pods, and fresh pod weight could be used as selection criteria to improve the seed yield of Bambara groundnut (Vigna subterranea).
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L. Wilczek) is an economically important grain legume crop in Asia, with high nutritional quality and potential in other parts of the world particularly arid and semiarid regions. Considering the potential adverse effects of drought, high salt, and other abiotic stresses on crop yield, significant efforts have been made to understand the underlying molecular mechanisms of tolerance to these abiotic stresses in legumes. In this study, a total of 186 putative AP2/ERF genes were identified, which were named VrERF1-186. These VrERF genes were classified into four main subfamilies according to the number of AP2 domains and sequence similarity, including 24 AP2 gene members, 81 ERF gene members, 79 DREB gene members, and 2 RAV members. VrERF genes are scattered across all 11 chromosomes and form small gene clusters on chromosomes due to segmental or tandem duplication. Promoter analysis revealed various cis-acting elements related to light, hormones, and stress responsiveness processes. The expression profiles of the VrERF genes in tissues during development and in response to abiotic stresses were assessed by transcriptome sequencing, and the selected reference genes were validated by qRT-PCR. A total of 174 VrERF genes were expressed in at least one of five tissues, while others showed distinct expression patterns in different tissues or under specific abiotic stress treatments, which indicates that VrERF genes are involved in developmental and environmental stress responses in V. radiata. In conclusion, the genome localization, genome-wide characterization, gene duplication, phylogenetic relationships, and expression pattern of VrERF genes in V. radiata were analyzed, and these results will lay the foundation for further functional analysis of these genes and improve stress tolerance to adverse conditions in plants.
The Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and its receptor (MET) promote several physiological activities such as tissue regeneration and protection from cell injury of epithelial, endothelial, neuronal and muscle cells. The therapeutic potential of MET activation has been scrutinized in the treatment of acute tissue injury, chronic inflammation, such as renal fibrosis and multiple sclerosis (MS), cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases. On the other hand, the HGF-MET signaling pathway may be caught by cancer cells and turned to work for invasion, metastasis, and drug resistance in the tumor microenvironment. Here, we engineered a recombinant antibody (RDO24) and two derived fragments, binding the extracellular domain (ECD) of the MET protein. The antibody binds with high affinity (8 nM) to MET ECD and does not cross-react with the closely related receptors RON nor with Semaphorin 4D. Deletion mapping studies and computational modeling show that RDO24 binds to the structure bent on the Plexin-Semaphorin-Integrin (PSI) domain, implicating the PSI domain in its binding to MET. The intact RDO24 antibody and the bivalent Fab2, but not the monovalent Fab induce MET auto-phosphorylation, mimicking the mechanism of action of HGF that activates the receptor by dimerization. Accordingly, the bivalent recombinant molecules induce HGF biological responses, such as cell migration and wound healing, behaving as MET agonists of therapeutic interest in regenerative medicine.
Mungbean is an important pulse crop and is predominantly cultivated across Asia. However, its production is hampered by climate change-induced drought stress. Drought affects various morpho-physiological processes associated with growth and molecular functions. This study analyzed growth responses and The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-021-01089-w.
Adzuki bean is an important legume crop due to its high-quality protein, fiber, vitamins, minerals as well as rich bioactive substances. However, it is vulnerable to drought at the germination stage. However, little information is available about the genetic control of drought tolerance during seed germination in adzuki bean. In this study, some differential expression proteins (DEPs) were identified during seed germination between the drought-tolerant variety 17235 and drought-sensitive variety 17033 in adzuki bean using iTRAQ method. A total of 2834 proteins were identified in the germinating seeds of these two adzuki beans. Compared with the variety 17033, 87 and 80 DEPs were increased and decreased accumulation in variety 17235 under drought, respectively. Meanwhile, in the control group, a few DEPs, including 9 up-regulated and 21 down-regulated proteins, were detected in variety 17235, respectively. GO, KEGG, and PPI analysis revealed that the DEPs related to carbohydrate metabolism and energy production were significantly increased in response to drought stresses. To validate the proteomic function, the ectopic overexpression of V-ATPase in tobacco was performed and the result showed that V-ATPase upregulation could enhance the drought tolerance of tobacco. The results provide valuable insights into genetic response to drought stress in adzuki bean, and the DEPs could be applied to develop biomarkers related to drought tolerant in adzuki bean breeding projects.
Mung bean coat (MBC) is a good source of dietary fibre and phenolic compounds with medical properties, and can alleviate metabolic diseases. In the present study, the effects of MBC on high fat diet (HFD)-induced hyperlipidemia mice were evaluated, and the underlying mechanisms of MBC against hyperlipidemia from hepatic transcriptional analysis were explored. Four groups of mice were fed a normal control diet or a HFD with or without MBC supplementation (6%, w/w) for 12 weeks. The results demonstrated that MBC supplementation could effectively alleviate HFD-induced obese symptoms, such as body weight gain and white adipose tissue accumulation. Notably, the serum lipid profiles, including total triglyceride, total cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, were significantly lowered, accompanied by a significant improvement in hepatic steatosis. RNA-sequencing analysis indicated 1126 differential expression genes responding to MBC supplementation, and the PPAR signaling pathway was significantly enriched. Furthermore, MBC supplementation could significantly upregulate the transcriptional expression of lipid transformation (lipidolysis)-related genes (
The stem color of young mung bean is a very useful tool in germplasm identification. Flowering time and plant height (PH) are known to be strongly correlated with crop adaption and yield. However, few studies have focused on elucidating the genetic mechanisms that regulate these five particular traits: young stem color (YSC), days to first flowering (DFF), days to maturity (DM), PH, and nodes on the main stem (NMS). In this study, a genetic linkage map for the The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11032-021-01233-0.
Lectins are glycoproteins and known for their peculiar carbohydrate-binding activity and their insect-pest-resistant properties. Earlier we have published our research finding on novel gene encoding Bowman-Birk type protease inhibitor with insecticidal properties from rice bean. This paper presents first report on cloning, sequencing, and expression of RbL ORF of 843 bp encoding 280 amino acids long lectin precursor from rice bean (Vigna umbellata) seeds. Blast analysis revealed more than 90% similarity of RbL protein with Vigna aconitifolia and Vigna angularis lectins. Phylogenetic analysis also revealed a close relationship between RbL and other legume lectins. Sequence analysis of genomic DNA revealed intronless nature of RbL gene (GenBank accession No. MT043160). The isolated RbL ORF was expressed in E. coli BL-21(DE3) cells and maximum expression was recorded with 0.5 mM IPTG after 4 h incubation at 37 °C. Western blotting confirmed RbL protein expression in E. coli. Recombinant protein (His
Drought stress response studies and overexpression of vun-miR408 proved it to be essential for abiotic stress tolerance in cowpea. Small RNA and transcriptome sequencing of an elite high-yielding drought-tolerant Indian cowpea cultivar, Pusa Komal revealed a differential expression of 198 highly conserved, 21 legume-specific, 14 less-conserved, and 10 novel drought-responsive microRNAs (miRNAs) along with 3391 (up-regulated) and 3799 (down-regulated) genes, respectively, in the leaf and root libraries. Among the differentially expressed miRNAs, vun-miR408-3p, showed an up-regulation of 3.53-log
This study aimed to investigate the optimal hypoxic and monosodium glutamate (MSG) stress conditions for the enrichment of γ-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) in germinating adzuki beans and to reveal the potential underlying molecular mechanisms of GABA accumulation. Using single-factor experiments and response surface model, we investigated the effects of germination time, germination temperature, vacuum time, and MSG concentration on GABA contents, and further explored the activity and gene expression of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) and polyamine oxidase (PAO) critical rate restriction enzymes during GABA synthesis. The optimal soaking temperature, soaking time, and pH conditions were 35°C, 16 h, and 5, respectively. Furthermore, the optimal germination conditions for optimal GABA enrichment were 48 h, 1.99 mg/ml MSG concentration, germination temperature of 31.49°C, and vacuum time of 15.83 h. Under such conditions, the predicted GABA concentration was 443.57 ± 7.18 mg/100 g, with no significant difference between the predicted and experimental data. The vacuum + MSG (FZM) treatment has a maximum contribution rate of GABA to 38.29%, which significantly increase GABA content, and the increase was associated with increased GAD and PAO activity. In addition, MSG in combination with vacuum treatment could significantly induce
High salinity is a devastating abiotic stresses for crops. To understand the molecular basis of salinity stress in yardlong bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis), and to develop robust markers for improving this trait in germplasm, whole transcriptome RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was conducted to compare the salt-tolerant variety Suzi 41 and salt-sensitive variety Sujiang 1419 under normal and salt stress conditions. Compared with controls, 417 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified under exposure to high salinity, including 42 up- and 11 down-regulated DEGs in salt-tolerant Suzi 41 and 186 up- and 197 down-regulated genes in salt-sensitive Sujiang 1419, validated by qRT-PCR. DEGs were enriched in "Glycolysis/Gluconeogenesis" (ko00010), "Cutin, suberine and wax biosynthesis" (ko00073), and "phenylpropanoid biosynthesis" (ko00940) in Sujiang 1419, although "cysteine/methionine metabolism" (ko00270) was the only pathway significantly enriched in salt-tolerant Suzi 41. Notably, AP2/ERF, LR48, WRKY, and bHLH family transcription factors (TFs) were up-regulated under high salt conditions. Genetic diversity analysis of 84 yardlong bean accessions using 26 InDel markers developed here could distinguish salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive varieties. These findings show a limited set of DEGs, primarily TFs, respond to salinity stress in V. unguiculata, and that these InDels associated with salt-inducible loci are reliable for diversity analysis.
Mung bean (Vigna radiata) is a warm-season legume crop and belongs to the papilionoid subfamily of the Fabaceae family. China is the leading producer of mung bean in the world. Mung bean has significant economic and health benefits and is a promising species with broad adaptation ability and high tolerance to environmental stresses. OSCA (hyperosmolality-gated calcium-permeable channel) gene family members play an important role in the modulation of hypertonic stress, such as drought and salinity. However, genome-wide analysis of the OSCA gene family has not been conducted in mung bean. We identified a total of 13 OSCA genes in the mung bean genome and named them according to their homology with AtOSCAs. All the OSCAs were phylogenetically split into four clades. Phylogenetic relationship and synteny analyses showed that the VrOSCAs in mung bean and soybean shared a relatively conserved evolutionary history. In addition, three duplicated VrOSCA gene pairs were identified, and the duplicated VrOSCAs gene pairs mainly underwent purifying selection pressure during evolution. Protein domain, motif and transmembrane analyses indicated that most of the VrOSCAs shared similar structures with their homologs. The expression pattern showed that except for VrOSCA2.1, the other 12 VrOSCAs were upregulated under treatment with ABA, PEG and NaCl, among which VrOSCA1.4 showed the largest increased expression levels. The duplicated genes VrOSCA2.1/VrOSCA2.2 showed divergent expression, which might have resulted in functionalization during subsequent evolution. The expression profiles under ABA, PEG and NaCl stress revealed a functional divergence of VrOSCA genes, which agreed with the analysis of cis-acting regulatory elements in the promoter regions of VrOSCA genes. Collectively, the study provided a systematic analysis of the VrOSCA gene family in mung bean. Our results establish an important foundation for functional and evolutionary analysis of VrOSCAs and identify genes for further investigation of their ability to confer abiotic stress tolerance in mung bean.
Yeast is a dominant host for recombinant production of heterologous proteins, high-value biochemical compounds, and microbial fermentation. During bioprocess operations, pH fluctuations, organic solvents, drying, starvation, osmotic pressure, and often a combination of these stresses cause growth inhibition or death, markedly limiting its industrial use. Thus, stress-tolerant yeast strains with balanced energy-bioenergetics are highly desirous for sustainable improvement of quality biotechnological production. We isolated two NAC transcription factors (TFs), VuNAC1 and VuNAC2, from a wild cowpea genotype, improving both stress tolerance and growth when expressed in yeast. The GFP-fused proteins were localized to the nucleus. Y2H and reporter assay demonstrated the dimerization and transactivation abilities of the VuNAC proteins having structural folds similar to rice SNAC1. The gel-shift assay indicated that the TFs recognize an "ATGCGTG" motif for DNA-binding shared by several native TFs in yeast. The heterologous expression of VuNAC1/2 in yeast improved growth, biomass, lifespan, fermentation efficiency, and altered cellular composition of biomolecules. The transgenic strains conferred tolerance to multiple stresses such as high salinity, osmotic stress, freezing, and aluminum toxicity. Analysis of the metabolome revealed reprogramming of major pathways synthesizing nucleotides, vitamin B complex, amino acids, antioxidants, flavonoids, and other energy currencies and cofactors. Consequently, the transcriptional tuning of stress signaling and biomolecule metabolism improved the survival of the transgenic strains during starvation and stress recovery. VuNAC1/2-based synthetic gene expression control may contribute to designing robust industrial yeast strains with value-added productivity.
The Teosinte branched 1/Cycloidea/Proliferating cell factor (TCP) transcription factors are potent growth and developmental regulators in plants, also responsive to various hormonal and environmental stimuli. In this study, we primarily focused on the functional role of TCP9, a nuclear-localised Class-I TCP transcription factor in a drought and heat-tolerant legume crop, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Under drought stress, a higher protein expression level of TCP9 was observed in the leaves of the drought-tolerant cowpea cultivar Pusa Komal as compared to the drought-sensitive cultivar TVu-7778. Further, overexpression of VuTCP9 resulted in reduced cell and stomata size, aperture length and width while cell and overall stomatal density in the 35S::VuTCP9 transgenic cowpea lines increased. Phenotypic alterations, such as reduced leaf size and vigour, altered seed coats displaying extension pattern similar to the 'Watson pattern' and delayed senescence were prominent in the transgenic lines. Under normal conditions, the gas exchange and fluorescence measurements indicated reduction in transpiration rate (E), stomatal conductance (g
Host-specific legume-rhizobium symbiosis is strictly controlled by rhizobial type III effectors (T3Es) in some cases. Here, we demonstrated that the symbiosis of Vigna radiata (mung bean) with Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens USDA110 is determined by NopE, and this symbiosis is highly dependent on host genotype. NopE specifically triggered incompatibility with V. radiata cv. KPS2, but it promoted nodulation in other varieties of V. radiata, including KPS1. Interestingly, NopE1 and its paralogue NopE2, which exhibits calcium-dependent autocleavage, yield similar results in modulating KPS1 nodulation. Furthermore, NopE is required for early infection and nodule organogenesis in compatible plants. Evolutionary analysis revealed that NopE is highly conserved among bradyrhizobia and plant-associated endophytic and pathogenic bacteria. Our findings suggest that V. radiata and B. diazoefficiens USDA110 may use NopE to optimize their symbiotic interactions by reducing phytohormone-mediated ETI-type (PmETI) responses via salicylic acid (SA) biosynthesis suppression.
This study establishes possibility of combinatorial silencing of more than one functional gene for their efficacy against root-knot nematode, M. incognita. Root-knot nematodes (RKN) of the genus Meloidogyne are the key important plant parasitic nematodes (PPNs) in agricultural and horticultural crops worldwide. Among RKNs, M. incognita is the most notorious that demand exploration of novel strategies for their management. Due to its sustainable and target-specific nature, RNA interference (RNAi) has gained unprecedented importance to combat RKNs. However, based on the available genomic information and interaction studies, it can be presumed that RKNs are dynamic and not dependent on single genes for accomplishing a particular function. Therefore, it becomes extremely important to consider silencing of more than one gene to establish any synergistic or additive effect on nematode parasitism. In this direction, we have combined three effectors specific to subventral gland cells of M. incognita, Mi-msp1, Mi-msp16, Mi-msp20 as fusion cassettes-1 and two FMRFamide-like peptides, Mi-flp14, Mi-flp18, and Mi-msp20 as fusion cassettes-2 to establish their possible utility for M. incognita management. In vitro RNAi assay in tomato and adzuki bean using these two fusion gene negatively altered nematode behavior in terms of reduced attraction, invasion, development, and reproduction. Subsequently, Nicotiana tabacum plants were transformed with these two fusion gene hairpin RNA-expressing vectors (hpRNA), and characterized via PCR, qRT-PCR, and Southern blot hybridization. Production of siRNAs specific to Mi-flp18 and Mi-msp1 was also confirmed by Northern hybridization. Further, transgenic events expressing single copy insertions of hpRNA constructs of fusion 1 and fusion-2 conferred up to 85% reduction in M. incognita multiplication. Besides, expression quantification revealed a significant reduction in mRNA abundance of target genes (up to 1.8-fold) in M. incognita females extracted from transgenic plants, and provided additional evidence for successful gene silencing.
Seed coat colour is an important nutritional quality trait. Variations in anthocyanins and flavonoids induce the diversity of seed coat colour in adzuki bean (
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is an aggressive tumor characterized by the presence of an abundant stromal compartment contributing significantly to the malignant phenotype. Pancreatic stellate cells are peculiar fibroblasts present in the stroma and represent the predominant source of extracellular matrix proteins, pro-inflammatory cytokines, and growth factors, including hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). Exploiting a co-culture system of human pancreatic stellate cells and cancer cells, we demonstrated that fibroblast activation was reduced upon HGF/MET axis inhibition. To unveil the signaling pathways sustaining stroma modulation orchestrated by MET activation in the tumor, we analyzed the gene expression profile in pancreatic cancer cells stimulated with HGF and treated with HGF/MET inhibitors. Transcriptome analysis showed that, among all the genes modulated by HGF, a subset of 125 genes was restored to the basal level following treatment with the inhibitors. By examining these genes via ingenuity pathway analysis, tenascin C emerged as a promising candidate linking MET signaling and tumor microenvironment. MET-dependent tenascin C modulation in pancreatic cancer cells was validated at RNA and protein levels both in vitro and in vivo. In conclusion, this work identifies tenascin C as a gene modulated by MET activation, suggesting a role in MET-mediated tumor-stroma interplay occurring during pancreatic tumor progression.
Fusarium wilt is a destructive soil-borne disease that threatens the production of mung bean. Mung bean lines Zheng8-4 and Zheng8-20 show high resistance and high susceptibility to Fusarium wilt, respectively. Transcriptome analysis was carried out to identify candidate genes involved in Fusarium wilt resistance using Zheng8-4 and Zheng8-20 at 0, 0.5, 1, 2, and 4 days post inoculation (dpi). Differential expression analysis showed that 3,254 genes responded to pathogen infection and were differentially expressed in the resistant and susceptible lines. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was also performed to identify five modules highly correlated with Fusarium wilt resistance, in which 453 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were considered likely to be involved in Fusarium wilt resistance. Among these DEGs, we found 24 genes encoding resistance (R) proteins, 22 encoding protein kinases, 20 belonging to transcription factor families, 34 encoding proteins with oxidoreductase activity, 17 involved in stimulation/stress responses, and 54 annotated to pathogen resistance-related pathways. Finally, 27 annotated genes were further selected as candidate genes of Fusarium wilt resistance in mung bean. This study identifies novel potential resistance-related genes against Fusarium wilt and provides a theoretical basis for further investigation of Fusarium wilt resistance in mung bean breeding.
The present work represents a pioneering effort, being the first to analyze genomic and transcriptomic data from
Increasing attention has been focused on plant-derived peptides because of their potential bioactivities. In this study, bioactive peptides were released from extruded adzuki bean protein by simulated gastrointestinal digestion. A peptide (KQS-1) sequenced as KQSESHFVDAQPEQQQR was separated and identified using ultrafiltration, pre-high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and ultraperformance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS). KQS-1 was shown to exert significant anti-inflammatory effects in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages by reducing the production of IL-1, IL-6, TNF-α, and MCP-1 to 38.31, 6.07, 43.96, and 41.74%, respectively. The involved signaling pathways were identified by transcriptome analysis. Overall, 5236 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. Gene ontology (GO) functions demonstrated that DEGs were significantly related to the NF-κB pathway. In conclusion, KQS-1 prevented the activation and expression of NF-κB/caspase-1 by upstream and downstream factors. These findings highlight the bioactivity of adzuki bean peptides.
Polygenic genome-wide association mapping identified two regions of the cowpea genome associated with different components of resistance to its major post-harvest pest, the seed beetle Callosobruchus maculatus. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is an important grain and fodder crop in arid and semi-arid regions of Africa, Asia, and South America, where the cowpea seed beetle, Callosobruchus maculatus, is a serious post-harvest pest. Development of cultivars resistant to C. maculatus population growth in storage could increase grain yield and quality and reduce reliance on insecticides. Here, we use a MAGIC (multi-parent, advanced-generation intercross) population of cowpea consisting of 305 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) to identify genetic variants associated with resistance to seed beetles. Because inferences regarding the genetic basis of resistance may depend on the source of the pest or the assay protocol, we used two divergent geographic populations of C. maculatus and two complementary assays to measure several aspects of resistance. Using polygenic genome-wide association mapping models, we found that the cowpea RILs harbor substantial additive-genetic variation for most resistance measures. Variation in several components of resistance, including larval development time and survival, was largely explained by one or several linked loci on chromosome 5. A second region on chromosome 8 explained increased seed resistance via the induction of early-exiting larvae. Neither of these regions contained genes previously associated with resistance to insects that infest grain legumes. We found some evidence of gene-gene interactions affecting resistance, but epistasis did not contribute substantially to resistance variation in this mapping population. The combination of mostly high heritabilities and a relatively consistent and simple genetic architecture increases the feasibility of breeding for enhanced resistance to C. maculatus.
A simple and generally fast Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system with no tissue culture and selection steps has been developed for the first time in a recalcitrant food legume, cowpea. The approach involves wounding of 1-day-old germinated seeds with a needle or sonication either alone or in combination of vacuum infiltration with A. tumefaciens EH105 (pCAMBIA2301) carrying a β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene (uidA) and a neomycin phosphotransferase (nptII) gene for stable transformation. Sonicated and vacuum infiltrated seedlings showed the highest transient GUS activity in 90% of the explants. The sprouted co-cultured seeds directly established in soil and without selection were allowed to develop into plants which on maturity produced T
Light affects the accumulation of vitamin E and carotenoids in many crops. This study investigated the impact of photoperiods on the metabolic regulation of vitamin E and carotenoids in mung bean sprouts considering their dietary health benefits. Mung beans were germinated under three different photoperiods: constant light, semilight and constant dark. Results revealed that the semilight photoperiod was optimum for vitamin E and carotenoid accumulation in mung bean sprouts. DXS was activated in the constant dark and was inhibited by constant light. GGPPS and HPT were sensitive to semilight photoperiod in the vitamin E biosynthetic pathway, playing dominant roles in vitamin E accumulation. The PSY, LCYE, LUT5, LUT1 and ZE genes, which are associated with carotenoid biosynthesis, were activated under semilight treatment and significantly regulated the accumulation of carotenoids. This knowledge improves knowledge on light-mediated regulation of vitamin E and carotenoids in mung bean sprouts.
The present study aimed to investigate the effects of mungbean water extract (MWE) on insulin downstream signaling in insulin-resistant HepG2 cells. Whole seed mungbean was extracted using boiling water, mimicking a traditional cooking method. Vitexin and isovitexin were identified in MWE. The results showed that MWE inhibited protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP)-1B (IC
Although nitric oxide (NO) is a key regulatory molecule in plants, its function in plants under conditions of simulated acid rain (SAR) has not been fully established yet. In this study, exogenous sodium nitroprusside (SNP) at three different concentrations were applied to mung bean seedlings. Malondialdehyde (MDA), NO, hydrogen peroxide (H
Fluoride exporter genes (FEX) are known for the expulsion of cytoplasmic fluoride, thus preventing fluoride toxicity in plants. In this study, 31 FEX genes were identified across 19 plant species. Camphor Resistance (CrcB) domain was found to be present in all the identified FEX genes in plants. FEX genes were sequentially very conserved among the plants and are located mostly in chloroplast and mitochondria. The tertiary structure (3D) of The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-021-02677-z.
Bruchids (Callosobruchus spp.) are destructive storage pests of mung beans (Vigna radiata). Bruchids infest mature seeds during storage and in the field causing heavy losses. Bruchid resistance in mung bean has been characterized as a dominant trait controlled by a single gene. Several independent mapping studies showed that the Br locus on chromosome 5 was a key quantitative trait loci (QTL) involved in bruchid resistance. Two polygalacturonase-inhibitor protein (PGIP) family genes, VrPGIP1 and VrPGIP2, located in the Br locus may be the primary genes responsible for bruchid resistance in mung bean but no experimental proof is available. We isolated the VrPGIP1 and VrPGIP2 genes from bruchid resistant mung bean cultivar V2802 and purified the proteins by prokaryotic expression. Both VrPGIP1 and VrPGIP2 had polygalacturonase inhibitor activity and both of the PGIP proteins conferred resistance to bruchids in an artificial seed test system. VrPGIPs can inhibit the enzyme activity of polygalacturonase present in males, females and fourth instar larvae of C. maculatus. These results demonstrated that VrPGIP1 and VrPGIP2 play a critical role in bruchid resistance probably through inhibiting polygalacturonase activity.
The expression of clock genes, regulating the synchronization of metabolic and behavioral processes with environmental light/dark cycles, is regulated by methylation and might be influenced by short-term exposure to airborne particulate matter (PM), especially in individuals that are hypersensitive to proinflammatory cues. The present study aimed to evaluate the effects of PM
Callosobruchus chinensis is one of the important postharvest pests in legume growing areas. Bacterial pesticide is a potential alternative method to control storage pests. However, the effect of these pathogen bacteria on storage pests, and the molecular mechanisms of insect response remain to be to investigated. Using the next generation sequencing technology, we established a transcriptomic library for C. chinensis larvae in response to Escherichia coli. Total of 355 differential expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, which 178 DEGs were upregulated, and 177 DEGs were downregulated compared to control group. To validate the RNA-seq analysis, 20 DEGs and 14 immune-related genes were selected to perform quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). These immune-related genes were involved in recognition (peptidoglycan recognition proteins), signal transduction (fibrinogen-related proteins, serine proteinases and NF-κB), and execution effectors (phenoloxidase, defensin, attacin, and antimicrobial peptide). In addition, genes that encode digestive and respiratory enzymes were altered in C. chinensis larvae in response to infection. Some genes that involved in juvenile hormone and insulin pathway appeared to express differentially, suggesting that pathogen infection might lead to developmental arrest. Furthermore, iron homeostasis and chitin metabolism appeared significantly altered after infection. In this study, we characterized the immune response of C. chinensis larvae in response to E. coli using RNA-seq, from pathogen recognition, signal transduction, to execution. Some other identified genes were involved in iron homeostasis, respiration, and digestion. A better understanding of molecular response of beetle to pathogen will facilitate us to develop an available strategy to control storage pests.
Fertile independent transgenic cowpea lines expressing the BtCry2Aa toxin with increased resistance to the most devastating lepidopteran insect pest, Maruca pod borer has been developed for the first time. Cowpea is a staple legume important for food and nutritional security in sub-Saharan Africa and Asia, where its production is limited by the key pest, legume pod borer (Maruca vitrata). Cowpea varieties resistant to M. vitrata are not known, hence, development of Maruca pod borer resistance cowpea through genetic engineering is a promising approach to improve its production. In the present study, transgenic cowpea plants expressing Bacillus thuringiensis Cry2Aa insecticidal protein were developed for the first time using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of cotyledonary explants. T
Yellow Mosaic Disease (YMD) in mungbean [Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek] is one of the most damaging diseases in Asia. In the northern part of India, the YMD is caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV), while in southern India this is caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic Virus (MYMV). The molecular mechanism of YMD resistance in mungbean remains largely unknown. In this study, RNA-seq analysis was conducted between a resistant (PMR-1) and a susceptible (Pusa Vishal) mungbean genotype under infected and control conditions to understand the regulatory network operating between mungbean-YMV. Overall, 76.8 million raw reads could be generated in different treatment combinations, while mapping rate per library to the reference genome varied from 86.78% to 93.35%. The resistance to MYMIV showed a very complicated gene network, which begins with the production of general PAMPs (pathogen-associated molecular patterns), then activation of various signaling cascades like kinases, jasmonic acid (JA) and brassinosteroid (BR), and finally the expression of specific genes (like PR-proteins, virus resistance and R-gene proteins) leading to resistance response. The function of WRKY, NAC and MYB transcription factors in imparting the resistance against MYMIV could be established. The string analysis also revealed the role of proteins involved in kinase, viral movement and phytoene synthase activity in imparting YMD resistance. A set of novel stress-related EST-SSRs are also identified from the RNA-Seq data which may be used to find the linked genes/QTLs with the YMD resistance. Also, 11 defence-related transcripts could be validated through quantitative real-time PCR analysis. The identified gene networks have led to an insight about the defence mechanism operating against MYMIV infection in mungbean which will be of immense use to manage the YMD resistance in mungbean.
Black gram [Vigna mungo (L)] seeds are a rich source of digestible protein and dietary fibre, both for human and animal consumption. However, the quality and quantity of the Vigna seeds are severely affected by bruchid beetles during storage. Therefore, analyses of the expression of the bruchid induced transcript dynamics in black gram pods would be helpful to understand the underlying defense mechanism against bruchid oviposition. We used the RNAseq approach to survey the changes in transcript profile in the developing seeds of a moderately resistant cultivar IC-8219 against bruchid oviposition using a susceptible cultivar T-9 as a control. A total of 96,084,600 and 99,532,488 clean reads were generated from eight (4 each) samples of IC-8219 and T-9 cultivar, respectively. Based on the BLASTX search against the NR database, 32,584 CDSs were generated of which 31,817 CDSs were significantly similar to Vigna radiata, a close relative of Vigna mungo. The IC-8219 cultivar had 630 significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of which 304 and 326 genes up and down-regulated, respectively. However, in the T-9 cultivar, only 168 DEGs were identified of which 142 and 26 genes up and down-regulated, respectively. The expression analyses of 10 DEGs by qPCR confirmed the accuracy of the RNA-Seq data. Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway analyses helped us to better understand the role of these DEGs in oviposition mediated defense response of black gram. In both the cultivars, the most significant transcriptomic changes in response to the oviposition were related to the induction of defense response genes, transcription factors, secondary metabolites, enzyme inhibitors, and signal transduction pathways. It appears that the bruchid ovipositioning mediated defense response in black gram is induced by SA signaling pathways and defense genes such as defensin, genes for secondary metabolites, and enzyme inhibitors could be potential candidates for resistance to bruchids. We generated a transcript profile of immature black gram pods upon bruchid ovipositioning by de novo assembly and studied the underlying defense mechanism of a moderately resistant cultivar.
In most diploids the centromere-specific histone H3 (CENH3), the assembly site of active centromeres, is encoded by a single copy gene. Persistance of two CENH3 paralogs in diploids species raises the possibility of subfunctionalization. Here we analysed both CENH3 genes of the diploid dryland crop cowpea. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that gene duplication of CENH3 occurred independently during the speciation of Vigna unguiculata. Both functional CENH3 variants are transcribed, and the corresponding proteins are intermingled in subdomains of different types of centromere sequences in a tissue-specific manner together with the kinetochore protein CENPC. CENH3.2 is removed from the generative cell of mature pollen, while CENH3.1 persists. CRISPR/Cas9-based inactivation of CENH3.1 resulted in delayed vegetative growth and sterility, indicating that this variant is needed for plant development and reproduction. By contrast, CENH3.2 knockout individuals did not show obvious defects during vegetative and reproductive development. Hence, CENH3.2 of cowpea is likely at an early stage of pseudogenization and less likely undergoing subfunctionalization.
In angiosperms, meiotic failure coupled with the formation of genetically unreduced gametophytes in ovules (apomeiosis) constitute major components of gametophytic apomixis. These aberrant developmental events are generally thought to be caused by mutation. However, efforts to locate the responsible mutations have failed. Herein, we tested a fundamentally different hypothesis: apomeiosis is a polyphenism of meiosis, with meiosis and apomeiosis being maintained by different states of metabolic homeostasis. Microarray analyses of ovules and pistils were used to differentiate meiotic from apomeiotic processes in
This paper reports fine mapping of qCLS for resistance to Cercospora leaf spot disease in mungbean and identified LOC106765332encoding TATA-binding-protein-associated factor 5 (TAF5) as the candidate gene for the resistance Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by the fungus Cercospora canescens is an important disease of mungbean. A QTL mapping using mungbean F
Mungbean, is a widely cultivated pulse crop in India, experiences severe drought stress during the cultivation period. The mechanism of drought tolerance in mungbean is not well understood. In this presents study we screened 7 widely cultivated mungbean genotypes towards their drought sensitivity at seedling stage and transcriptome sequencing of drought-tolerant and susceptible genotype to understand the drought tolerance mechanism. Our physiological data such as increase in root length, shoot length, fresh weight, dry weight, relative water content (RWC), proline content, MDA content and molecular data in terms of quantitative expression of drought stress responsive genes under 3-d drought stress in mungbean suggests that, K851 seems to be most drought tolerant and PDM-139 as drought susceptible genotype. The transcriptomic study between K-851 and PDM-139 revealed 22,882 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) which were identified under drought stress, and they were mainly mapped to phytohormone signal transduction, carbon metabolism and flavonoid biosynthesis. Out of these, 10,235 genes were up-regulated and 12,647 genes were down-regulated. Furthermore, we found that, the DEGs related to, phytohormone signal transduction, carbon metabolism and flavonoid biosynthesis and they were more induced in K-851. Our data suggested that, the drought tolerant genotype K-851, scavenges the damage of drought stress by producing more amount of osmolytes, ROS scavengers and sugar biosynthesis.
Flowering time has a critically important effect on the reproduction of plants, and many components involved in flowering-time regulation have been identified in multiple plant species. However, studies of the flowering-time genes in mungbean (Vigna radiata) have been limited. Here, we characterized a novel mungbean gene, VrLELP, involved in flowering-time regulation in transgenic Arabidopsis. Subcellular localization analysis revealed that VrLELP was localized in the membrane, cytoplasm and nucleus and the nucleus and membrane contained higher signal than cytoplasm, similar to the empty vector control. The expression of VrLELP was higher in leaves and pods and lower in nodule roots relative to other tissues. The expression of VrLELP varied during flower development. The expression of VrLELP also varied during the day, reaching a peak after 12 h of illumination under long-day conditions. In contrast, under short-day conditions, the abundance of VrLELP transcripts changed little throughout the day. In addition, VrLELP delayed flowering time in transgenic Arabidopsis plants by suppressing the expression of the flowering-time genes CO and FT under short-day conditions. However, VrLELP did not affect flowering time under long-day conditions in Arabidopsis. Our study provides essential information for future studies of the molecular mechanisms of the flowering-time regulation system in mungbean.
Cytosine methylation in genomic DNA affects gene expression, potentially causing phenotypic variation. Mungbean, an agronomically and nutritionally important legume species, is characterized by nonsynchronous pod maturity, resulting in multiple harvest which costs extra time and labor. To elucidate the epigenetic influences on synchronous pod maturity (SPM) in mungbean, we determined the genome-wide DNA methylation profiles of eight mungbean recombinant inbred lines (RILs) and their parental genotypes, and compared DNA methylation profiles between high SPM and low SPM RILs, thus revealing differentially methylated regions (DMRs). A total of 3, 18, and 28 pure DMRs, defined as regions showing no significant correlation between nucleotide sequence variation and methylation level, were identified in CpG, CHG, and CHH contexts, respectively. These DMRs were proximal to 20 genes. Among the 544 single nucleotide polymorphisms identified near the 20 genes, only one caused critical change in gene expression by early termination. Analysis of these genome-wide DNA methylation profiles suggests that epigenetic changes can influence the expression of proximal genes, regardless of nucleotide sequence variation, and that SPM is mediated through gibberellin-mediated hormone signaling pathways. These results provide insights into how epialleles contribute to phenotypic variation and improve SPM in mungbean cultivars.
Availability of genome sequence of different legume species has provided an opportunity to characterize the abundance, distribution, and divergence of canonical intact long terminal retrotransposons (In-LTR-RT) superfamilies. Among seven legume species, Arachis ipaensis (Aip) showed the highest number of full-length canonical In-LTR-RTs (3325), followed by Glycine max (Gma, 2328), Vigna angularis (Van, 1625), Arachis durensis (Adu, 1348), Lotus japonicus (Lja, 1294), Medicago truncatula (Mtr, 788), and Circer arietinum (Car, 124). Divergence time analysis demonstrated that the amplification timeframe of LTR-RTs dramatically varied in different families. The average insertion time of Copia element varied from 0.51 (Van) to 1.37 million years ago (Mya) (Adu, and Aip), whereas that of Gypsy was between 0.22 (Mtr) and 1.82 Mya (Adu). Bayesian phylogenetic tree analysis suggested that the 1397 and 1917 reverse transcriptase (RT) domains of Copia and Gypsy families of the seven legume species were clustered into 7 and 14 major groups, respectively. The highest proportion (approximately 94.79-100%) of transposable element (TE)-associated genes assigned to pathways was mapped to metabolism-related pathways in all species. The results enabled the structural understanding of full-length In-LTR-RTs and will be valuable resource for the further study of the impact of TEs on gene structure and expression in legume species.
Cowpea is a well-known nutrition rich African leafy vegetable that has potential to sustain food and nutrition insecurity in sub-Saharan Africa. Consumption of cowpea legumes is associated with reduced risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Therefore, the present study was designed to evaluate the (i) variation in phenolic metabolites in seven cowpea cultivars (VOP1, VOP2, VOP3, VOP4, VOP5, VOP7, and VOP8 using UHPLC coupled with high resolution Q-TOF-MS technique, (ii) in vitro antioxidant activity using ferric reducing/antioxidant capacity (FRAP) assay (iii) in vitro anti-diabetic effects and (iv) composition of carotenoids and amino acids of theses cowpea cultivars. The results of this study demonstrated that gentisic acid 5-
Cadmium (Cd) is a detrimental element that can be toxic to plants. The physiological and biochemical responses of plants to Cd stress have been extensively studied, but the molecular mechanisms remain unclear. The present study showed that Cd severely inhibited the growth of roots and shoots and reduced plant biomass of mung bean seedlings. To further investigate the gene profiles and molecular processes in response Cd stress, transcriptome analyses of mung bean roots exposed to 100 μM Cd for 1, 5, and 9 days were performed. Cd treatment significantly decreased global gene expression levels at 5 and 9 d compared with the control. A total of 6737, 10279, and 9672 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the 1-, 5-, and 9-day Cd-treated root tissues compared with the controls, respectively. Based on the analysis of DEG function annotation and enrichment, a pattern of mung bean roots response to Cd stress was proposed. The processes detoxification and antioxidative defense were involved in the early response of mung bean roots to Cd. Cd stress downregulated the expressions of a series of genes involved in cell wall biosynthesis, cell division, DNA replication and repair, and photosynthesis, while genes involved in signal transduction and regulation, transporters, secondary metabolisms, defense systems, and mitochondrial processes were upregulated in response to Cd, which might be contributed to the improvement of plant tolerance. Our results provide some novel insights into the molecular processes for growth and adaption of mung bean roots in response to Cd and many candidate genes for further biotechnological manipulations to improve plant tolerance to heavy metals.
Loss/reduction of function of Mildew Locus O (MLO) genes clade V and MLO clade IV has been shown to be responsible for powdery mildew (PM) resistance in several plant species. Mungbean (Vigna radiata) genome possesses 18 MLO genes, VrMLO1 - VrMLO18. A previous study using mungbean F
Organ size and architecture of plants are important traits affecting crop yield and agronomic practices. An induced mutant, multiple-organ gigantism (MOG), of black gram (
Globally, yellow mosaic disease (YMD) remains a major constraint of mungbean production, and management of this deadly disease is still the biggest challenge. Thus, finding ways to manage YMD including development of varieties possessing resistance against mungbean yellow mosaic virus (MYMV) and mungbean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV) is a research priority for mungbean crop. Characterization of YMD resistance using various advanced molecular and biochemical approaches during plant-virus interactions has unfolded a comprehensive network of pathogen survival, disease severity, and the response of plants to pathogen attack, including mechanisms of YMD resistance in mungbean. The biggest challenge in YMD management is the effective utilization of an array of information gained so far, in an integrated manner for the development of genotypes having durable resistance against yellow mosaic virus (YMV) infection. In this backdrop, this review summarizes the role of various begomoviruses, its genomic components, and vector whiteflies, including cryptic species in the YMD expression. Also, information about the genetics of YMD in both mungbean and blackgram crops is comprehensively presented, as both the species are crossable, and same viral strains are also found affecting these crops. Also, implications of various management strategies including the use of resistance sources, the primary source of inoculums and vector management, wide-hybridization, mutation breeding, marker-assisted selection (MAS), and pathogen-derived resistance (PDR) are thoroughly discussed. Finally, the prospects of employing various powerful emerging tools like translational genomics, and gene editing using CRISPR/Cas9 are also highlighted to complete the YMD management perspective in mungbean.
The legume cowpea ( Attempts to develop a transient protoplast system for cowpea were unsuccessful. Leaflets from plants 3-4 weeks post-germination were age selected to establish a rapid The transient, detached cowpea leaf assay, and supporting analytical methods developed, provide a rapid and reproducible means for testing gene expression constructs, and constructs for inducing mutagenesis in genes involved in both vegetative and reproductive developmental programs. The method and tested editing constructs and components have potential application for a range of crop legumes.
Synchronous pod maturity is critical for increasing grain yield. The candidate genes involved in synchronous pod maturity were identified through RNA-seq and HPLC. Mungbean (Vigna radiata [L.] Wilczek), an important source of carbohydrate and protein in Asia, is characterized by nonsynchronous pod maturity; consequently, harvesting is labor intensive. Because pod maturity is associated with synthesis and remobilization of sucrose, we examined changes in sucrose levels and transcriptome in leaf (source) tissues after pod (sink) removal using two genotypes, VC1973A and V2984; VC1973A had higher synchronicity in pod maturity than V2984. After pod removal, much higher number of pods were produced in V2984 than VC1973A. The sucrose content of leaf tissues significantly decreased in V2984 because it continued to utilize assimilates from leaves for producing new pods, but significantly increased in VC1973A because of the loss of sink. Transcriptome analysis revealed that the number of differentially expressed genes was approximately fourfold higher in VC1973A than in those of V2984 after pod removal. The expression of two paralogous genes (Vradi01g05010 and Vradi10g08240), encoding beta-glucosidase enzymes, significantly decreased in VC1973A after pod removal and was significantly lower in depodded VC1973A than depodded V2984, indicating these two genes may participate in sucrose utilization for seed development by regulating the level of glucose. The results of this study will help elucidate the genetic basis of synchronous pod maturity in mungbean and facilitate the development of new cultivars with synchronous pod maturity.
Arsenic (As)-toxicity is recognized as one of the major environmental problems, affecting productivity of crops worldwide, thereby threatening sustainable agriculture and food security. Progression in nanotechnology and its impacts have brought up concerns about the application of engineered nanoparticles (NPs) in various sectors of the economy, including the field of agronomy. Among various NPs, there has been a rising amount of interest regarding the effects of titanium NPs (TiNPs) on plants growth and development, and their fate of abiotic stress tolerance. Hence, the present study was aimed to assess the ameliorative potentialities of chemically and biologically/green synthesized TiNPs to alleviate As-induced toxic responses in Vigna radiata L. The results revealed that exposure to As hindered the growth indices (radicle length and biomass) and membrane integrity, while were improved with the application of chemical and green synthesized TiNPs. In addition, treatment of As provoked the accretion of reactive oxygen species (superoxide and hydrogen peroxide) and malondialdehyde (a lipid peroxidized product), but were diminished by the supplementation of chemical and green manufactured TiNPs. The experimental data also signified that exogenous application of chemical and green synthesized TiNPs conferred tolerance to As-induced oxidative injuries via perking-up the expressions of antioxidant genes and enzyme systems viz; superoxide dismutase and catalase. Therefore, the present study inferred that chemically and green synthesized TiNPs, particularly green manufactured, effectively mitigated the adverse impacts of As by augmenting antioxidant machinery, thereby proving its potentiality in the alleviation of As-toxicity, at least in Vignaradiata L.
Cowpea miRNAs and Argonaute genes showed differential expression patterns in response to CPSMV challenge Several biotic stresses affect cowpea production and yield. CPSMV stands out for causing severe negative impacts on cowpea. Plants have two main induced immune systems. In the basal system (PTI, PAMP-triggered immunity), plants recognize and respond to conserved molecular patterns associated with pathogens (PAMPs). The second type (ETI, Effector-triggered immunity) is induced after plant recognition of specific factors from pathogens. RNA silencing is another important defense mechanism in plants. Our research group has been using biochemical and proteomic approaches to learn which proteins and pathways are involved and could explain why some cowpea genotypes are resistant whereas others are susceptible to CPSMV. This current study was conducted to determine the role of cowpea miRNA in the interaction between a resistant cowpea genotype (BRS-Marataoã) and CPSMV. Previously identified and deposited plant microRNA sequences were used to find out all possible microRNAs in the cowpea genome. This search detected 617 mature microRNAs, which were distributed in 89 microRNA families. Next, 4 out of these 617 miRNAs and their possible target genes that encode the proteins Kat-p80, DEAD-Box, GST, and SPB9, all involved in the defense response of cowpea to CPSMV, had their expression compared between cowpea leaves uninoculated and inoculated with CPSMV. Additionally, the differential expression of genes that encode the Argonaute (AGO) proteins 1, 2, 4, 6, and 10 is reported. In summary, the studied miRNAs and AGO 2 and AGO4 associated genes showed differential expression patterns in response to CPSMV challenge, which indicate their role in cowpea defense.
Worldwide, 50% of soil is acidic, which induces aluminium (Al) toxicity in plants, as the phyto-availability of Al
During mung bean post-germination seedling growth, various metabolic and physiological changes occurred, leading to the improvement of its nutritional values. Here, transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses of mung bean samples from 6-hour, 3-day and 6-day after imbibition (6-HAI, 3-DAI, and 6-DAI) were performed to characterize the regulatory mechanism of the primary metabolites during the post-germination seedling growth. From 6-HAI to 3-DAI, rapid changes in transcript level occurred, including starch and sucrose metabolism, glycolysis, citrate cycle, amino acids synthesis, and plant hormones regulation. Later changes in the metabolites, including carbohydrates and amino acids, appeared to be driven by increases in transcript levels. During this process, most amino acids and monosaccharides kept increasing, and accumulated in 6-day germinated sprouts. These processes were also accompanied with changes in hormones including abscisic acid, gibberellin, jasmonic acid, indole-3-acetic acid, etc. Overall, these results will provide insights into molecular mechanisms underlying the primary metabolic regulation in mung bean during post-germination seedling growth.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the interaction of pro-vitamin A-rich sweet potato on iron bioavailability of biofortified cowpeas, using in vitro Caco-2 cells and in vivo depletion-repletion rat model. Mixtures of conventional rice with cultivars of iron-biofortified (Aracê, Xiquexique, and Tumucumaque) or conventional (Guariba) cowpeas with or without sweet potato biofortified with pro-vitamin A carotenoids were evaluated. The ratio of ferritin/total protein in Caco-2 cells was used as the index of cellular Fe uptake in the in vitro assay. The animal study evaluated the hemoglobin gain, the relative biological value, and the gene expression of transferrin and ferritin proteins by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. In the in vitro study, Xiquexique cowpea presented higher bioavailability of iron in the absence of sweet potato, and no difference was observed between the other cultivars of cowpea with and without sweet potato. The in vivo bioavailability (relative biological value of hemoglobin regeneration efficiency) differed statistically only between Guariba groups added to sweet potato and Tumucumaque. Ferritin mRNA expression did not differ between the test and control (ferrous sulfate) groups. Regarding the transferrin mRNA expression, there was a difference between the test and control groups except for the Xiquexique group. The association of rice and beans with sweet potato rich in carotenoids favored the gene expression of proteins involved in the iron metabolism, as well as its bioavailability, corroborating beneficial effects of this mixture. Xiquexique cowpea was shown to be the most promising compared to the other cultivars, exhibiting higher iron content in the digestible fraction, better in vitro bioavailability of iron, and transferrin gene expression. PRACTICAL APPLICATION: Data from the study indicated greater in vitro bioavailability of iron for Xiquexique cowpea and sweet potato mixtures, in addition to the greater regeneration efficiency of hemoglobin in vivo as the bioavailability of iron among biofortified beans, highlighting the promising benefits of biofortification.
An amendment to this paper has been published and can be accessed via a link at the top of the paper.
Paspalum notatum exhibits both sexual and apomictic cytotypes and, thus, is considered a good model for studies of apomixis because it facilitates comparative approaches. In this work, transcriptome sequencing was used to compare contrasting P. notatum cytotypes to identify differential expression patterns and candidate genes involved in the regulation of expression of this trait. We built a comprehensive transcriptome using leaf and inflorescence from apomictic tetraploids and sexual diploids/tetraploids and a coexpression network based on pairwise correlations between transcript expression profiles. We identified genes exclusively expressed in each cytotype and genes differentially expressed between pairs of cytotypes. Gene Ontology enrichment analyses were performed to better interpret the data. We de novo assembled 114,306 reference transcripts. In total, 536 candidate genes possibly associated with apomixis were detected through statistical analyses of the differential expression data, and several interacting genes potentially linked to the apomixis-controlling region, genes that have already been reported in the literature, and their neighbors were transcriptionally related in the coexpression network. Apomixis is a highly desirable trait in modern agriculture due to the maintenance of the characteristics of the mother plant in the progeny. The reference transcriptome, candidate genes and their coexpression network identified in this work represent rich resources for future grass breeding programs.
Infection with Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) represents one of the main limitations for cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) productivity due to the severity of the disease symptoms, frequency of incidence, and difficulties in dissemination control. This study aimed to identify the proteins and metabolic pathways associated with the susceptibility and resistance of cowpea plants to CPSMV. Therefore, we treated the seeds of a naturally susceptible cowpea genotype (CE-31) with the mutagenic agent ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS) and compared the secondary leaf proteomic profile of the mutagenized resistant plants inoculated with CPSMV (MCPI plant group) to those of the naturally susceptible cowpea genotype CE-31 inoculated (CPI) and noninoculated (CPU) with CPSMV. MCPI responded to CPSMV by accumulating proteins involved in the oxidative burst, increasing H
Hyperlipidemia is closely related to oxidative stress, and it has been proved that the intake of legumes can protect the body from chronic diseases related to oxidative stress. In this study, we investigated the protective effects of mung beans and peas against high-fat-diet-induced rats. It was found that, with 50% addition of mung beans or peas, the intake of mung beans and peas could significantly restore the levels of serum total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Liver staining also showed that high-fat diet (HFD) led to liver lesions, whereas whole-grain intake could significantly relieve these symptoms. Compared with the HFD group, the antioxidant defense system and antioxidant gene expression in administered legume groups improved markedly. Furthermore, the antioxidant activities of the two legume extracts were determined. Characterization showed that the ethanol extracts of mung beans and peas possessed high antioxidant activities, for their ability to scavenge ABTS and DPPH, reduce Fe
Ethylene-response factor (ERF) proteins are members of a transcription factor family involved in plant growth and environmental stress responses, but the biological functions of ERF members in adzuki bean (Vigna angularis var. angularis) remain unknown. In addition, it is unclear whether these proteins have a role in regulating responses to abiotic stressors. Here, we identified 47 ERF genes by analyzing the adzuki bean genome. Whole-transcriptome analyses of plants under saline-alkaline stress suggested that the expression of 13 ERF genes was induced in response to saline-alkaline stress. Analysis of the cis-acting elements showed that the promoters of these saline-alkaline stress-inducible ERF genes contained LTRs, DREs, MYBs, ABREs, MYCs, CGTCA-, and TGACG-motifs, which are involved in abiotic stress responses. The expression of VaERF3 was induced by NaHCO
Meloidogyne incognita is a polyphagous plant-parasitic nematode that causes considerable yield loss in agricultural and horticultural crops. The management options available for M. incognita are extremely limited. Here we identified and characterised a M. incognita homolog of Caenorhabditis elegans sterol-binding protein (Mi-SBP-1), a transcriptional regulator of several lipogenesis pathway genes, and used RNA interference-mediated gene silencing to establish its utility as a target for the management of M. incognita. Mi-sbp-1 is predicted to be a helix-loop-helix domain containing DNA binding transcription factor, and is present in the M. incognita genome in three copies. The RNA-Seq analysis of Mi-sbp-1 silenced second stage juveniles confirmed the key role of this gene in lipogenesis regulation in M. incognita. In vitro and host-induced gene silencing of Mi-sbp-1 in M. incognita second stage juveniles resulted in loss of nematodes' ability to utilise the stored fat reserves, slower nematode development, and reduced parasitism on adzuki bean and tobacco plants. The multiplication factor for the Mi-sbp-1 silenced nematodes on adzuki bean plants was reduced by 51% compared with the control nematodes in which Mi-sbp-1 was not silenced. Transgenic expression of the double-stranded RNA construct of the Mi-sbp-1 gene in tobacco plants caused 40-45% reduction in M. incognita multiplication, 30-43.8% reduction in the number of egg masses, and 33-54% reduction in the number of eggs per egg mass compared with the wild type control plants. Our results confirm that Mi-sbp-1 is a key regulator of lipogenesis in M. incognita and suggest that it can be used as an effective target for its management. The findings of this study can be extended to develop methods to manage other economically important parasitic nematodes.
Transcriptional regulation is important for plants to respond to toxic effects of aluminium (Al). However, our current knowledge to these events is confined to a few transcription factors. Here, we functionally characterized a rice bean (Vigna umbellata) NAC-type transcription factor, VuNAR1, in terms of Al stress response. We demonstrated that rice bean VuNAR1 is a nuclear-localized transcriptional activator, whose expression was specifically upregulated by Al in roots but not in shoot. VuNAR1 overexpressing Arabidopsis plants exhibit improved Al resistance via Al exclusion. However, VuNAR1-mediated Al exclusion is independent of the function of known Al-resistant genes. Comparative transcriptomic analysis revealed that VuNAR1 specifically regulates the expression of genes associated with protein phosphorylation and cell wall modification in Arabidopsis. Transient expression assay demonstrated the direct transcriptional activation of cell wall-associated receptor kinase 1 (WAK1) by VuNAR1. Moreover, yeast one-hybrid assays and MEME motif searches identified a new VuNAR1-specific binding motif in the promoter of WAK1. Compared with wild-type Arabidopsis plants, VuNAR1 overexpressing plants have higher WAK1 expression and less pectin content. Taken together, our results suggest that VuNAR1 regulates Al resistance by regulating cell wall pectin metabolism via directly binding to the promoter of WAK1 and induce its expression.
The effects of exogenous spermidine and dicyclohexylamine (DCHA, spermidine synthesis inhibitor) on the antioxidative system and energy status of germinating mung bean were investigated. Results showed that exogenous spermidine increased the content of total phenolic and ascorbic acid and the antioxidative activity, but reduced activities and gene expressions of peroxidase (POD) and catalase (CAT). These changes might be explained by increased H
Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by Cercospora canescens is an important disease of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). A previous study using an F
The aim of the present study was to characterize and evaluate the anti-cancer activity of proanthocyanidin-enriched fractions from adzuki beans. For this purpose, we concentrated proanthocyanidins from adzuki beans (
Insulin/insulin-like growth factor signaling (IIS) is known to mediate larval growth and adult reproduction in the legume pod borer, Maruca vitrata (Lepidoptera: Crambidae). Four IIS components (InR, FOXO, Akt, and TOR) play crucial roles in the IIS pathway. RNA interference (RNAi) against any of these four IIS component genes was effective in suppressing each target mRNA level by either hemocoelic injection or oral administration using gene-specific double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs). These RNAi treatments interfered with larval growth, leading to small pupae or significant larval mortality. For massive production of dsRNA, transformed bacteria expressing dsRNAs of these four IIS components were prepared with L4440 expression vector and HT115 strain of Escherichia coli. The transformed bacteria killed the larvae in a dose-dependent manner by feeding administration. An ultra-sonication pretreatment was performed to impair bacterial membrane and increase dsRNA release from the bacteria in insect intestine. This pretreatment increased the insecticidal activity of these recombinant bacteria. To further increase dsRNA toxicity, its mixture with Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) was prepared and showed significant increase of Bt insecticidal activity in the laboratory. The bacterial mixture also showed a high control efficacy (83.3%) in an adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) field infested by M. vitrata. Furthermore, such a dsRNA effect was specific for M. vitrata, but not for non-target insects. The bacteria expressing dsRNA specific to IIS components can be used to develop dsRNA insecticide. © 2019 Society of Chemical Industry.
Heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70), a 70-kDa protein, also known as a molecular chaperone, is highly conserved. It plays a major role in cellular functions such as protein folding, regulation of protein degradation, translocation of proteins across membranes, receptor signaling, and protein assembly or disassembly.
Galectins (GAL) are animal lectins that play important roles in the immune response through regulation of homeostasis and immune function. Bioactive polyphenols are able to bind and regulate galectins in inflammatory diseases. Cowpea is a nutritious and polyphenol-rich legume used as feed. The objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of cowpea polyphenol extract (CPE) on galectin gene transcription and translation in bovine peripheral blood. Blood from lactating cows (
Blackgram [Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper], is an important legume crop of Asia with limited genomic resources. We report a comprehensive set of genic simple sequence repeat (SSR) and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) markers using Illumina MiSeq sequencing of transcriptome and its application in genetic variation analysis and mapping. Transcriptome sequencing of immature seeds of wild blackgram, V. mungo var. silvestris by Illumina MiSeq technology generated 1.9 × 10 In the present study, 1621genic-SSR and 1844 SNP markers were developed from immature seed transcriptome sequence of blackgram and 31 genic-SSR markers were used to study genetic variations among different blackgram accessions. Above developed markers contribute towards enriching available genomic resources for blackgram and aid in breeding programmes.
Drought impact on plants is an increasing concern under the climate change scenario. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) is considered as one of the most tolerant legume crops to drought, being the search for the best well-adapted genotypes crucial to face the future challenges. Different approaches have been used for differentiating plant responses to drought stress. Plants of four cowpea genotypes were submitted to three watering regimens (a severe and moderate drought stress, and well-watered control) during 15 days, and several physiological, biochemical and molecular parameters were evaluated. Stressed plants revealed commonly-described drought stress characteristics, but not all assayed parameters were useful for discriminating plants with different drought severities or genotypes. The analyses which have contributed most to genotype discrimination were those related with stomatal function, and biochemical markers such as proline and anthocyanin contents. Antioxidant enzymes activities and related genes expression did not differed among genotypes or upon drought stress treatments, suggesting that scavenging enzymes are not involved in the differential ability of cowpea plants to survive under drought stress. This information will be useful to evaluate and use genetic resources, as well as design strategies for breeding cowpea resistance to drought stress.
The exact roles of various granule-associated proteins (GAPs) of polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) are poorly investigated, particularly for bacteria associated with plants. In this study, four structural GAPs, named phasins PhaP1 to PhaP4, were identified and demonstrated as true phasins colocalized with PHB granules in
Isoflavones, such as Genistein (Ge) and Daidzein (Dz) are widely studied Phytoestrogens with potent anti-osteoporotic and good antioxidant activity. Cowpea is one such legume having high isoflavone content and hence we aimed at studying the beneficial effects of the isoflavones isolated from cowpea as it is widely accepted staple food in India. Previously, we reported the effect of Cowpea isoflavones (CP) and Vitamin D (VD) owing to its ability of improving the osteoporotic condition in a diet induced osteoporotic rat model. In the present study, we tried to explore the underlying mechanism of CP and VD along with positive controls Dz and Ge in influencing the functions of human osteoblasts at cellular level. Initially, MG-63 cells were assessed for the expression of genes involved in BMP-2 signaling pathway, like Bone morphogenic protein (BMP-2), transcription factor Osterix (OSX), total and phosphorylated Smad 1/5/8 levels and osteoblast specific genes levels namely Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), Osteopontin (OPN), and Collagen by immunoblot, flow cytometry, and quantitative RT-PCR studies. All the levels that were upregulated with the initial exposure of the compounds got inhibited after Noggin exposure a specific BMP-2 antagonist both at protein level and m-RNA level, except OSX where the expression was totally hindered in CP and Ge treated groups alone. Hence, CP and VD activate BMP-2/Smad signaling pathway and promote further proliferation and differentiation of osteoblasts. Therefore, results prove that isoflavones isolated from cowpea could be used in treating bone-related disorders.
Asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis) is a warm season legume which is widely distributed over subtropical regions and semiarid areas. It is mainly grown as a significant protein source in developing countries. Salinity, as one of the main abiotic stress factors, constrains the normal growth and yield of asparagus bean. This study used two cultivars (a salt-sensitive genotype and a salt-tolerant genotype) under salt stress vs. control to identify salt-stress-induced genes in asparagus bean using RNA sequencing. A total of 692,086,838 high-quality clean reads, assigned to 121,138 unigenes, were obtained from control and salt-treated libraries. Then, 216 root-derived DEGs (differentially expressed genes) and 127 leaf-derived DEGs were identified under salt stress between the two cultivars. Of these DEGs, thirteen were assigned to six transcription factors (TFs), including AP2/EREBP, CCHC(Zn), C2H2, WRKY, WD40-like and LIM. GO analysis indicated four DEGs might take effects on the "oxidation reduction", "transport" and "signal transduction" process. Moreover, expression of nine randomly-chosen DEGs was verified by quantitative real-time-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis. Predicted function of the nine tested DEGs was mainly involved in the KEGG pathway of cation transport, response to osmotic stress, and phosphorelay signal transduction system. A salt-stress-related pathway of "SNARE interactions in vesicular transport" was concerned. As byproducts, 15, 321 microsatellite markers were found in all the unigenes, and 17 SNP linked to six salt-stress induced DEGs were revealed. These candidate genes provide novel insights for understanding the salt tolerance mechanism of asparagus bean in the future.
Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV)-infection creates major hindrance in V. mungo cultivation and poses significant threat to other grain legume production. Symptoms associated include severe patho-physiological alterations characterized by chlorotic foliar lesion accompanied by reduced growth. However, dissection of the host's defense machinery remains a tough challenge due to limited of host's genomic resources. A comparative RNA-Seq transcriptomes of resistant (VM84) and susceptible (T9) plants was carried out to identify genes potentially involved in V. mungo resistance against MYMIV. Distinct gene expression landscapes were observed in VM84 and T9 with 2158 and 1679 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), respectively. Transcriptomic responses in VM84 reflect a prompt and intense immune reaction demonstrating an efficient pathogen surveillance leading to activation of basal and induced immune responses. Functional analysis of the altered DEGs identified multiple regulatory pathways to be activated or repressed over time. Up-regulation of DEGs including NB-LRR, WRKY33, ankyrin, argonaute and NAC transcription factor revealed an insight on their potential roles in MYMIV-resistance; and qPCR validation shows a propensity of their accumulation in VM84. Analyses of the current RNA-Seq dataset contribute immensely to decipher molecular responses that underlie MYMIV-resistance and will aid in the improvement strategy of V. mungo and other legumes through comparative functional genomics.
Human breast cancer is characterized by a high degree of inter-patients heterogeneity in terms of histology, genomic alterations, gene expression patterns, and metastatic behavior, which deeply influences individual prognosis and treatment response. The main cause of mortality in breast cancer is the therapy-resistant metastatic disease, which sets the priority for novel treatment strategies for these patients. In the present study, we demonstrate that Patient Derived Xenografts (PDXs) that were obtained from metastatic and therapy-resistant breast cancer samples recapitulate the wide spectrum of the disease in terms of histologic subtypes and mutational profiles, as evaluated by whole exome sequencing. We have integrated genomic and transcriptomic data to identify oncogenic and actionable pathways in each PDX. By taking advantage of primary short-term in vitro cultures from PDX tumors, we showed their resistance to standard chemotherapy (Paclitaxel), as seen in the patients. Moreover, we selected targeting drugs and analyzed PDX sensitivity to single agents or to combination of targeted and standard therapy on the basis of PDX-specific genomic or transcriptomic alterations. Our data demonstrate that PDXs represent a suitable model to test new targeting drugs or drug combinations and to prioritize personalized therapeutic regimens for pre-clinal and clinical tests.
Protein degradation and turnover under various environmental stresses is basically regulated by ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), of which SKP1 is a very essential component. Isolation and cloning of an identified potential stress responsive candidate gene SKP1, was successfully done for the first time to fathom the role of SKP1 in drought tolerance at genetic level in drought tolerant mungbean cultivar Pratap, which was screened after a detailed physio-biochemical screening amongst seven popular mungbean cultivars. The cloned gene SKP1 (accession number KX881912) is 550 bp in length, encodes 114 amino acids. It shows high sequence homology with SKP1 from Zea mays (NP_001148633). The protein expression of isolated SKP1 was confirmed by GUS fused expression using a Histochemical assay under control as well as under drought stress. Further, up-regulation in relative expression level of SKP1 in different plant parts under drought stress confirmed its utility as a potential drought responsive candidate gene certainly demanding extensive genetic research for further incorporation in breeding programs. Moreover, the structure of VrSKP1 (Vigna radiata SKP1) has been modelled, validated and an Essential Dynamics (ED) was done on the Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulation trajectories for filtering large-scale concerted motions. Free-energy calculations on the ED revealed a complex free-energy landscape (FEL) implying the conformational diversity of the modelled VrSPK1 protein.
Orphan genes (OGs) are genes that are restricted to a single species or a particular taxonomic group. To date, little is known about the functions of OGs in domesticated crops. Here, we report our findings on the relationships between OGs and environmental adaptation in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). We identified 578 expressed OGs, of which 73.2% were predicted to be non-coding. Transcriptomic analyses revealed a high rate of OGs that were drought inducible in roots when compared with conserved genes. Co-expression analysis further revealed the possible involvement of OGs in stress response pathways. Overexpression of UP12_8740, a drought-inducible OG, conferred enhanced tolerance to osmotic stresses and soil drought. By combining Capture-Seq and fluorescence-based Kompetitive allele-specific PCR (KASP), we efficiently genotyped single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on OGs across a 223 accession cowpea germplasm collection. Population genomic parameters, including polymorphism information content (PIC), expected heterozygosity (He), nucleotide diversity (π), and Tajima's D statistics, that were calculated based on these SNPs, showed distinct signatures between the grain- and vegetable-type subpopulations of cowpea. This study reinforces the idea that OGs are a valuable resource for identifying new genes related to species-specific environmental adaptations and fosters new insights that artificial selection on OGs might have contributed to balancing the adaptive and agronomic traits in domesticated crops in various ecoclimatic conditions.
To better understand the regulatory mechanism of phenolics and ascorbic acid accumulation as well as antioxidant activities in mung beans during legume development, the gene expression profiles of 25 key-coding genes in ascorbic acid and phenolics metabolic pathways were analyzed. As well as the dynamitic changes of ascorbic acid, phenolic profiles and antioxidant activities with legume development were studied. The results indicated that gene expression profiles were closely related to the ascorbic acid and phenolics accumulation regularity during legume development.
Thaumatin-like proteins (TLPs) are a highly complex protein family associated with host defense and developmental processes in plants, animals, and fungi. They are highly diverse in angiosperms, for which they are classified as the PR-5 (Pathogenesis-Related-5) protein family. In plants, TLPs have a variety of properties associated with their structural diversity. They are mostly associated with responses to biotic stresses, in addition to some predicted activities under drought and osmotic stresses. The present review covers aspects related to the structure, evolution, gene expression, and biotechnological potential of TLPs. The efficiency of the discovery of new TLPs is below its potential, considering the availability of omics data. Furthermore, we present an exemplary bioinformatics annotation procedure that was applied to cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) transcriptome, including libraries of two tissues (root and leaf), and two stress types (biotic/abiotic) generated using different sequencing approaches. Even without using genomic sequences, the pipeline uncovered 56 TLP candidates in both tissues and stresses. Interestingly, abiotic stress (root dehydration) was associated with a high number of modulated TLP isoforms. The nomenclature used so far for TLPs was also evaluated, considering TLP structure and possible functions identified to date. It is clear that plant TLPs are promising candidates for breeding purposes and for plant transformation aiming a better performance under biotic and abiotic stresses. The development of new therapeutic drugs against human fungal pathogens also deserves attention. Despite that, applications derived from TLP molecules are still below their potential, as it is evident in our review.
Germination and sprouting are regulated by the energy status. In the present study, mung bean seeds were treated with adenosine triphosphate and 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP). The metabolomic changes during development of mung beans under different energy statuses were investigated. In total, 42 metabolites were identified. Principal component analysis revealed that the featured compounds produced in seeds were oleic, linoleic, and succinic acids. Sugars, including maltose, sucrose, and glucose were related to sprouting. Mung bean seeds utilised diverse energy resources and produced higher succinic acid content. Sugars and secondary metabolites accumulated in sprouts. Nitrogen, sugar, and amino acid metabolism pathways contributed to this physiological process. DNP caused an energy deficit, which resulted in the consumption and translation of glucose. Higher contents of other saccharides and amino acids were observed. The transcriptional results further confirmed our metabolic hypothesis. In conclusion, sufficient energy supply is crucial for sprout development and nutritive metabolite synthesis.
Interferon-induced expression of programmed cell death ligands (PD-L1/PD-L2) may sustain tumour immune-evasion. Patients featuring MET amplification, a genetic lesion driving transformation, may benefit from anti-MET treatment. We explored if MET-targeted therapy interferes with Interferon-γ modulation of PD-L1/PD-L2 in MET-amplified tumours. PD-L1/PD-L2 expression and signalling pathways downstream of MET or Interferon-γ were analysed in MET-amplified tumour cell lines and in patient-derived tumour organoids, in basal condition, upon Interferon-γ stimulation, and after anti-MET therapy. PD-L1 and PD-L2 were upregulated in MET-amplified tumour cells upon Interferon-γ treatment. This induction was impaired by JNJ-605, a selective inhibitor of MET kinase activity, and MvDN30, an antibody inducing MET proteolytic cleavage. We found that activation of JAKs/ STAT1, signal transducers downstream of the Interferon-γ receptor, was neutralised by MET inhibitors. Moreover, JAK2 and MET associated in the same signalling complex depending on MET phosphorylation. Results were confirmed in MET-amplified organoids derived from human colorectal tumours, where JNJ-605 treatment revoked Interferon-γ induced PD-L1 expression. These data show that in MET-amplified cancers, treatment with MET inhibitors counteracts the induction of PD-1 ligands by Interferon-γ. Thus, therapeutic use of anti-MET drugs may provide additional clinical benefit over and above the intended inhibition of the target oncogene.
Heat shock transcription factors (Hsfs) are essential elements in plant signal transduction pathways that mediate gene expression in response to various abiotic stresses. Mungbean (
The establishment of symbiosis between legume and rhizobium results in the formation of nodule. Phytocyanins (PCs) are a class of plant-specific blue copper proteins, playing critical roles in plant development including nodule formation. Although a few PC genes have been isolated from nodules, their functions are still unclear. Here, we performed a genome-wide identification of PC family in seven sequenced legume species (Medicago truncatula, Glycine max, Cicer arietinum, Cajanus cajan, Lotus japonicus, Vigna angularis and Phaseolus vulgaris) and found PCs experienced a remarkable expansion in M. truncatula and G. max. Further, we conducted an in-depth analysis of PC family in the model legume M. truncatula. Briefly, 82 MtPCs were divided into four subfamilies and clustered into seven clades, with a large proportion of tandem duplications and various cross-tissues expression patterns. Importantly, some PCs, such as MtPLC1, MtENODL27 and MtENODL28 were preferentially expressed in nodules. Further, RNA interference (RNAi) experiment revealed the knockdown of MtENDOL27 and MtENDOL28 impaired rhizobia infection, nodule numbers and nitrogenase activity. Moreover, in the MtENODL27-RNAi nodules, the infected cells were reduced and the symbiosomes did not reach the elongated stage, indicating MtENDOL27 is required for rhizobia infection and nodule development. In addition, co-expression analysis showed MtPLC1, MtENODL27 and MtENODL28 were grouped into two different functional modules and co-expressed with the known symbiotic nitrogen fixation-related genes, suggesting that they might participate in nodulation via different ways. In summary, this study provides a useful resource for future researches on the structure and function of PCs in nodulation.
This study supports the idea that the evolution of type III secretion system (T3SS) is one of the factors that controls Vigna radiata-bradyrhizobia symbiosis. Based on phylogenetic tree data and gene arrangements, it seems that the T3SSs of the Thai bradyrhizobial strains SUTN9-2, DOA1, and DOA9 and the Senegalese strain ORS3257 may share the same origin. Therefore, strains SUTN9-2, DOA1, DOA9, and ORS3257 may have evolved their T3SSs independently from other bradyrhizobia, depending on biological and/or geological events. For functional analyses, the rhcJ genes of ORS3257, SUTN9-2, DOA9, and USDA110 were disrupted. These mutations had cultivar-specific effects on nodulation properties. The T3SSs of ORS3257 and DOA9 showed negative effects on V. radiata nodulation, while the T3SS of SUTN9-2 showed no effect on V. radiata symbiosis. In the roots of V. radiata CN72, the expression levels of the PR1 gene after inoculation with ORS3257 and DOA9 were significantly higher than those after inoculation with ORS3257 ΩT3SS, DOA9 ΩT3SS, and SUTN9-2. The T3Es from ORS3257 and DOA9 could trigger PR1 expression, which ultimately leads to abort nodulation. In contrast, the T3E from SUTN9-2 reduced PR1 expression. It seems that the mutualistic relationship between SUTN9-2 and V. radiata may have led to the selection of the most well-adapted combination of T3SS and symbiotic bradyrhizobial genotype.
Correlations between the transcriptional responses of genes that encode superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), and peroxiredoxin (Prx) enzymes and Colletotrichum gloeosporioides development in cowpea leaves were assessed. Each of these genes is involved in the redox metabolism and hydrogen peroxide balance. Although electron microscopy revealed that conidia adhered to and germinated on the leaf cuticle, the inoculated cowpea leaves did not show any characteristic anthracnose symptoms. The adhered and germinated conidia showed irregular surfaces and did not develop further. This was apparently due to increased leaf H
The results provide a significant verification of functional redundancy and diversity of CUC/NAM genes in legumes. The CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON/NO APICAL MERISTEM (CUC/NAM) orthologs play key roles for plant organ boundary formation and organ development. Here, we performed a forward screen of the gamma irradiation mutagenesis population in mungbean and characterised a mutant, reduced rachis and fused leaflets (rrf1), which gave rise to the formation of compound leaves with reduced rachis and fused leaflets. Map-based cloning revealed that RRF1 encoded a CUC/NAM protein in mungbean. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that legume CUC1/CUC2 genes were classified as belonging to two subclades, and there are different copies of CUC1/CUC2 genes in legumes. Transcriptomic analysis showed that expression levels of a set of developmental regulators, including class I KNOTTED-LIKE HOMEOBOXI (KNOXI) gene and LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES DOMAIN (LBD) gene, were altered in rrf1 mutants compared to the wild-type plants. Furthermore, rrf1 genetically interacted with heptafoliate leaflets1 (hel1), a mutant displaying a seven-leaflet compound leaf, to regulate leaf development in mungbean. Our results suggest functional redundancy and diversity of two subclades of CUC1/CUC2 genes in legumes, following the duplication of an ancestral gene.
Environmental stresses can reduce crop yield and quality considerably. Plants protect cell metabolism in response to abiotic stresses at all stages of their life cycle, including seed production. As the production of vigorous seeds is important to both yield and crop growth, we analyzed causes of yield loss and reduced grain quality in staple crops exposed to environmental stresses such as drought and temperature extremes, with a focus on the remobilization of nutrients and water status during seed filling. Because water is one of the factors that limit seed development, seeds must have mechanisms that allow them to withstand water loss during seed maturation. In addition, analysis of the effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on transcription regulation and signaling should help to elucidate the regulation of seed dormancy and germination. In this review, we focus on nutrient remobilization, water mobility, plant hormones (gibberellins, abscisic acid, and ethylene), and ROS in sink and source organs and describe how rice, wheat, barley, soybean, and cowpea plants control seed maturation and germination under environmental stresses.
Stem growth habit is a key plant architecture trait determining yield potential in grain legumes, and the phenotypic change from the indeterminate stem growth habit of wild mungbeans (Vigna radiata) to the determinate stem growth habit of cultivated mungbeans is a critical domestication transition. Here we show that indeterminate stem growth in wild mungbean is modulated by a single gene, VrDet1, which encodes a signaling protein of shoot apical meristems. The transition from an indeterminate to a determinate stem growth habit was achieved by selection of two linked point mutations in two putative cis-regulatory elements, resulting in a significant reduction in gene expression. Both the wild-type nucleotides corresponding to the two point mutations were essential for VrDet1 function. In addition, two highly diverse haplotypes of Vrdet1 were found in cultivated mungbeans, suggesting dual domestication of Vrdet1. VrDet1 was orthologous to Dt1 in wild soybean and PvTFL1y in wild common bean, where multiple loss-of-function mutations altering the coding sequences of individual genes were selected to produce determinate stems in cultivated accessions. Interspecific comparison of these orthologs in the wild and cultivated accessions reveals the most conservative interspecific and intraspecific parallel domestication events with the broadest mutational spectrum of a domestication trait in leguminous crops. We also found that interspecifically and functionally conserved promoters possess cis-regulatory elements that are highly conserved in kind but greatly variable in number and order, demonstrating the evolutionary dynamics of regulatory sequences. This work provides insights into the origins of cultivated mungbean and exemplifies the conservativeness and plasticity of the domestication processes of related crops.
The production of pure enzymes in high quantities is a proven strategy to study the catalytic mechanism as well as the solving of structure at the atomic scale for therapeutic or industrial purposes. Phospholipase D (PLD, EC 3.1.4.4) is found in a wide majority of living organisms and has been shown to be involved in signal transduction, vesicle trafficking, and membrane metabolism processes. Located at the membrane-cytoplasm interface, plant PLDs are soluble but also bear an evident hydrophobic aspect making challenging its expression and its purification in large quantity. So far there is no high-resolution three-dimensional structure for a eukaryotic PLD. The protocols herein describe the cloning of the eukaryotic recombinant PLDα of Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) into the yeast expression system Pichia pastoris and its two-step purification process. This allowed us to purify to homogeneity hundreds of micrograms of highly pure protein to conduct in fine structural studies.
Symbiotic nitrogen fixation between legumes and rhizobia involves a coordinated expression of many plant and bacterial genes as well as finely tuned metabolic activities of micro- and macrosymbionts. In spite of such complex interactions, symbiotic proficiency remains a resilient process, with host plants apparently capable of compensating for some deficiencies in rhizobia. What controls nodule homeostasis is still poorly understood and probably varies between plant species. In this respect, the promiscuous Sinorhizobium (Ensifer) fredii strain NGR234 has become a model to assess the relative contribution of single gene products to many symbioses. Here, we describe how a deletion in nifQ of NGR234 (strain NGRΔnifQ) makes nodules of Vigna unguiculata, V. radiata, and Macroptilium atropurpureum but not of the mimisoid tree Leucaena leucocephala, purple-red. This peculiar dark-nodule phenotype did not necessarily correlate with a decreased proficiency of NGRΔnifQ but coincided with a 20-fold or more accumulation of coproporphyrin III and uroporphyrin III in V. unguiculata nodules. Porphyrin accumulation was not restricted to plant cells infected with bacteroids but also extended to the nodule cortex. Nodule metal-homeostasis was altered but not sufficiently to prevent assembly and functioning of nitrogenase. Although the role of NifQ in donating molybdenum during assembly of nitrogenase cofactor FeMo-co makes it essential in free-living diazotrophs, our results highlight the dispensability of NifQ in many legume species.
Under conditions of aluminum (Al) toxicity, which severely inhibits root growth in acidic soils, plants rapidly alter their gene expression to optimize physiological fitness for survival. Abscisic acid (ABA) has been suggested as a mediator between Al stress and gene expression, but the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we investigated ABA-mediated Al-stress responses, using integrated physiological and molecular biology approaches. We demonstrate that Al stress caused ABA accumulation in the root apex of rice bean (Vigna umbellata [Thunb.] Ohwi & Ohashi), which positively regulated Al tolerance. However, this was not associated with known Al-tolerance mechanisms. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that nearly one-third of the responsive genes were shared between the Al-stress and ABA treatments. We further identified a transcription factor, ABI5, as being positively involved in Al tolerance. Arabidopsis abi5 mutants displayed increased sensitivity to Al, which was not related to the regulation of AtALMT1 and AtMATE expression. Functional categorization of ABI5-mediated genes revealed the importance of cell wall modification and osmoregulation in Al tolerance, a finding supported by osmotic stress treatment on Al tolerance. Our results suggest that ABA signal transduction pathways provide an additional layer of regulatory control over Al tolerance in plants.
Cowpea is an important horticultural crop in tropical and subtropical areas of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, as well as parts of southern Europe and Central and South America. Chilling injury is a common physiological hazard of cowpea in cold chain logistics which reduce the cowpea pods nutritional quality and product value. However, the molecular mechanism involved in chilling injury remains unclear in cowpea pods. RNA-Seq and sRNA-Seq technologies were employed to decipher the miRNAs and mRNAs expression profiles and their regulatory networks in cowpea pods involved in chilling stress. Differentially expressed miRNAs and mRNA profiles were obtained based on cluster analysis, miRNAs and target genes were found to show coherent relationships in the regulatory networks of chilling injury. Furthermore, we found that numerous miRNAs and nat-siRNAs' targets were predicted to be key enzymes involved in the redox reactions such as POD, CAT, AO and LOX, energy metabolism such as ATPase, FAD and NAD related enzymes and different transcription factors such as WRKY, bHLH, MYB, ERF and NAC which play important roles in chilling injury.
Merely touching the pancreas can lead to premature zymogen activation and pancreatitis but the mechanism is not completely understood. Here we demonstrate that pancreatic acinar cells express the mechanoreceptor Piezo1 and application of pressure within the gland produces pancreatitis. To determine if this effect is through Piezo1 activation, we induce pancreatitis by intrapancreatic duct instillation of the Piezo1 agonist Yoda1. Pancreatitis induced by pressure within the gland is prevented by a Piezo1 antagonist. In pancreatic acinar cells, Yoda1 stimulates calcium influx and induces calcium-dependent pancreatic injury. Finally, selective acinar cell-specific genetic deletion of Piezo1 protects mice against pressure-induced pancreatitis. Thus, activation of Piezo1 in pancreatic acinar cells is a mechanism for pancreatitis and may explain why pancreatitis develops following pressure on the gland as in abdominal trauma, pancreatic duct obstruction, pancreatography, or pancreatic surgery. Piezo1 blockade may prevent pancreatitis when manipulation of the gland is anticipated.
This work studied the cell transport of peptidase-generated peptides from cowpea bean proteins and their effects on mRNA expression of cholesterol-related genes in intestinal and liver cells. The ≤3 kDa hydrolysate was obtained and incubated with Caco-2 intestinal cells using Transwell® plates. HepG2 liver cells were incubated with synthetic analogues of peptides (MELNAVSVVHS and MELNAVSVVSH) identified by "de novo" peptide sequencing in the Caco-2 monolayer permeates. The mRNA expression of NPC1L1, ABCA1 and ABCG1 was measured in Caco-2 cells, in the presence or absence of ≤3 kDa hydrolysate and the expression of HMGCR, SREBP2, LXRα, AMPK1, was determined in the HepG2 cells in the presence or absence of synthetic peptides. Exposure of Caco-2 cells to cowpea ≤3 kDa hydrolysate (2.5 and 5 mg/mL) increased ABCG1 expression at 6 h and 12 h. SREBP2, HMGCR and LDLR mRNA levels were reduced in HepG2 cells after 24 h of treatment with MELNAVSVVHS peptide (50 μM and 100 μM). These results suggest that MELNAVSVVHS peptide is able to cross intestinal barrier and to modulate genes involved in cholesterol homeostasis.
The agricultural crops are often affected by the scarcity of fresh water. Seasonal drought is a major constraint on Northeast Indian agriculture. Almost 80% of the agricultural land in this region is acidic and facing severe drought during the winter period. Apart from classical breeding and transgenic approaches, the application of plant-growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) is an alternative strategy for improving plant fitness under stressful conditions. The 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase-producing PGPB offer drought stress tolerance by regulating plant ethylene levels. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the consortium effect of three ACC-deaminase producing rhizobacteria - Ochrobactrum pseudogrignonenseRJ12, Pseudomonas sp.RJ15 and Bacillus subtilisRJ46 on drought stress alleviation in Vigna mungo L. and Pisum sativum L. Consortium treatment significantly increase seed germination percentage, root length, shoot length, and dry weight of treated plants. An elevated production of reactive oxygen species scavenging enzymes and cellular osmolytes; higher leaf chlorophyll content; increase in relative water content and root recovery intension were observed after consortium treatment in comparison with the uninoculated plants under drought conditions. The consortium treatment decreased the ACC accumulation and down-regulated ACC-oxidase gene expression. This consortium could be an effective bio-formulator for crop health improvement in drought-affected acidic agricultural fields.
Plant glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are integral to normal plant metabolism and biotic and abiotic stress tolerance. The GST gene family has been characterized in diverse plant species using molecular biology and bioinformatics approaches. In the current study, in silico analysis identified 44 GSTs in Vigna radiata. Of the total 44 GSTs identified, chromosomal locations of 31 GSTs were confirmed. The pI value of GST proteins ranged from 5.10 to 9.40. The predicted molecular weights ranged from 13.12 to 50 kDa. Subcellular localization analysis revealed that all GSTs were predominantly localized in the cytoplasm. The active site amino acids were confirmed to be serine in tau, phi, theta, zeta, and TCHQD; cysteine in lambda, DHAR, and omega; and tyrosine in EF1G. The gene architecture conformed to the two-exon/one-intron and three-exon/two-intron organization in the case of tau and phi classes, respectively. MEME analysis identified 10 significantly conserved motifs with the width of 8-50 amino acids. The motifs identified were either specific to a specific GST class or were shared by multiple GST classes. The results of the current study will be of potential importance in the characterization of the GST gene family in V. radiata, an economically important leguminous crop.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is an important source of protein supply for animal and human nutrition. The major storage globulins VICILIN and LEGUMIN (LEG) are synthesized from several genes including LEGA, LEGB, LEGJ and CVC (CONVICILIN). The current hypothesis is that the plant circadian core clock genes are conserved in a wide array of species and that primary metabolism is to a large extent controlled by the plant circadian clock. Our aim was to investigate a possible link between gene expression of storage proteins and the circadian clock. We identified cowpea orthologues of the core clock genes VunLHY, VunTOC1, VunGI and VunELF3, the protein storage genes VunLEG, VunLEGJ, and VunCVC as well as nine candidate reference genes used in RT-PCR. ELONGATION FACTOR 1-A (ELF1A) resulted the most suitable reference gene. The clock genes VunELF3, VunGI, VunTOC1 and VunLHY showed a rhythmic expression profile in leaves with a typical evening/night and morning/midday phased expression. The diel patterns were not completely robust and only VungGI and VungELF3 retained a rhythmic pattern under free running conditions of darkness. Under field conditions, rhythmicity and phasing apparently faded during early pod and seed development and was regained in ripening pods for VunTOC1 and VunLHY. Mature seeds showed a rhythmic expression of VunGI resembling leaf tissue under controlled growth chamber conditions. Comparing time windows during developmental stages we found that VunCVC and VunLEG were significantly down regulated during the night in mature pods as compared to intermediate ripe pods, while changes in seeds were non-significant due to high variance. The rhythmic expression under field conditions was lost under growth chamber conditions. The core clock gene network is conserved in cowpea leaves showing a robust diel expression pattern except VunELF3 under growth chamber conditions. There appears to be a clock transcriptional reprogramming in pods and seeds compared to leaves. Storage protein deposition may be circadian regulated under field conditions but the strong environmental signals are not met under artificial growth conditions. Diel expression pattern in field conditions may result in better usage of energy for protein storage.
The effects of exogenous ATP on the postharvest quality, browning and softening of mung bean (Vigna radiata) sprouts were evaluated. ATP treatment significantly alleviated the quality loss and browning events during the storage of 3 days. It also reduced the oxidant damage by inducing high activities of peroxidase (9.3-13.9%) and superoxide dismutase (8.8-10.3%) which scavenged the reactive oxygen species (ROS) effectively. Transcriptional results indicated that ATP treatment decreased VrPL1, VrPME and VrPG1 gene expression levels more than 2 folds at some time points. Furthermore, the atomic force microscope (AFM) images revealed that the pectin degradation was notably slowed by ATP treatment and the width and height of pectin backbone were better maintained (47.1% and 45.6% higher than control without ATP treatment). The cooperative effects of ROS scavenging and decreased expressions of pectin-related genes might contribute to the deferred pectin deterioration and firmness loss by ATP treatment.
Mung bean and adzuki bean are warm-season legumes widely cultivated in China. However, bean production in major producing regions is limited by biotic and abiotic stress, such as drought and salt stress. Basic leucine zipper (bZIP) genes play key roles in responses to various biotic and abiotic stresses. However, only several bZIP genes involved in drought and salt stress in legumes, especially Vigna radiata and Vigna angularis, have been identified. In this study, we identified 54 and 50 bZIP proteins from whole-genome sequences of V. radiata and V. angularis, respectively. First, we comprehensively surveyed the characteristics of all bZIP genes, including their gene structure, chromosome distribution and motif composition. Phylogenetic trees showed that VrbZIP and VabZIP proteins were divided into ten clades comprising nine known and one unknown subgroup. The results of the nucleotide substitution rate of the orthologous gene pairs showed that bZIP proteins have undergone strong purifying selection: V. radiata and V. angularis diverged 1.25 million years ago (mya) to 9.20 mya (average of 4.95 mya). We also found that many cis-acting regulatory elements (CAREs) involved in abiotic stress and plant hormone responses were detected in the putative promoter regions of the bZIP genes. Finally, using the quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) method, we performed expression profiling of the bZIP genes in response to drought, salt and abscisic acid (ABA). We identified several bZIP genes that may be involved in drought and salt responses. Generally, our results provided useful and rich resources of VrbZIP and VabZIP genes for the functional characterization and understanding of bZIP transcription factors (TFs) in warm-season legumes. In addition, our results revealed important and interesting data - a subset of VrbZIP and VabZIP gene expression profiles in response to drought, salt and ABA stress. These results provide gene expression evidence for the selection of candidate genes under drought and salt stress for future study.
Aluminum (Al)-induced organic acid secretion from the root apex is an important Al resistance mechanism. However, it remains unclear how plants fine-tune root organic acid secretion which can contribute significantly to the loss of fixed carbon from the plant. Here, we demonstrate that Al-induced citrate secretion from the rice bean root apex is biphasic, consisting of an early phase with low secretion and a later phase of large citrate secretion. We isolated and characterized VuMATE2 as a possible second citrate transporter in rice bean functioning in tandem with VuMATE1, which we previously identified. The time-dependent kinetics of VuMATE2 expression correlates well with the kinetics of early phase root citrate secretion. Ectopic expression of VuMATE2 in Arabidopsis resulted in increased root citrate secretion and Al resistance. Electrophysiological analysis of Xenopus oocytes expressing VuMATE2 indicated VuMATE2 mediates anion efflux. However, the expression regulation of VuMATE2 differs from VuMATE1. While a protein translation inhibitor suppressed Al-induced VuMATE1 expression, it releases VuMATE2 expression. Yeast one-hybrid assays demonstrated that a previously identified transcription factor, VuSTOP1, interacts with the VuMATE2 promoter at a GGGAGG cis-acting motif. Thus, we demonstrate that plants adapt to Al toxicity by fine-tuning root citrate secretion with two separate root citrate transport systems.
We are proposing mechanisms to account for the loss of viability (seed deterioration/ageing) and enhancement in seed quality (post-storage priming treatment). In order to understand the regulatory mechanism of these traits, we conducted controlled deterioration (CD) test for up to 8 d using primed mung bean seeds and examined how CD effects the expression of many genes, regulating the seed metabolism in relation to CD and priming. Germination declined progressively with increased duration of CD, and the priming treatment completely/partially reversed the inhibition depending on the duration of CD. The loss of germination capacity by CD was accompanied by a reduction in total RNA content and RNA integrity, indicating that RNA quantity and quality impacts seed longevity. Expression analysis revealed that biosynthesis genes of GA, ethylene, ABA and ROS-scavenging enzymes were differentially affected in response to duration of CD and priming, suggesting coordinately regulated mechanisms for controlling the germination capacity of seeds by modifying the permeability characteristics of biological membranes and activities of different enzymes. ABA genes were highly expressed when germination was delayed and inhibited by CD. Whereas, GA and ethylene genes were more highly expressed when germination was enhanced and permitted by priming under similar conditions. GSTI, a well characterized enzyme family involved in stress tolerance, was expressed in primed seeds over the period of CD, suggesting an additional protection against deterioration. The results are discussed in light of understanding the mechanisms underlying longevity/priming which are important issues economically and ecologically.
Cowpea is one of the most important food and forage legumes in drier regions of the tropics and subtropics. However, cowpea yield worldwide is markedly below the known potential due to abiotic and biotic stresses, including parasitism by root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp., RKN). Two resistance genes with dominant effect, Rk and Rk2, have been reported to provide resistance against RKN in cowpea. Despite their description and use in breeding for resistance to RKN and particularly genetic mapping of the Rk locus, the exact genes conferring resistance to RKN remain unknown. In the present work, QTL mapping using recombinant inbred line (RIL) population 524B x IT84S-2049 segregating for a newly mapped locus and analysis of the transcriptome changes in two cowpea near-isogenic lines (NIL) were used to identify candidate genes for Rk and the newly mapped locus. A major QTL, designated QRk-vu9.1, associated with resistance to Meloidogyne javanica reproduction, was detected and mapped on linkage group LG9 at position 13.37 cM using egg production data. Transcriptome analysis on resistant and susceptible NILs 3 and 9 days after inoculation revealed up-regulation of 109 and 98 genes and down-regulation of 110 and 89 genes, respectively, out of 19,922 unique genes mapped to the common bean reference genome. Among the differentially expressed genes, four and nine genes were found within the QRk-vu9.1 and QRk-vu11.1 QTL intervals, respectively. Six of these genes belong to the TIR-NBS-LRR family of resistance genes and three were upregulated at one or more time-points. Quantitative RT-PCR validated gene expression to be positively correlated with RNA-seq expression pattern for eight genes. Future functional analysis of these cowpea genes will enhance our understanding of Rk-mediated resistance and identify the specific gene responsible for the resistance.
Vigna mungo (L.)Hepper is an economically important leguminous crop in south-east Asia. However, its production is severely affected by Mungbean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV). It is well established that methyl jasmonate (MeJA) is effective in inducing resistance against pathogens in several plants. To assess the role of MeJA in developing MYMIV tolerance in V. mungo, we analysed time-dependent biochemical and molecular responses of MYMIV susceptible V. mungo after exogenous application of different MeJA concentrations, followed by MYMIV infection. Our analysis revealed that exogenous application of different concentrations of MeJA resulted in decreased levels of malondialdehyde with higher membrane stability index values in MYMIV susceptible V. mungo, suggesting the protective role of MeJA through restoring the membrane stability. Moreover, the level of expression of different antioxidative enzymes revealed that exogenous MeJA is also very effective in ROS homeostasis maintenance. Enhanced expressions of the defence marker genes lipoxygenase and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and the reduced expression of the MYMIV coat-protein encoding gene in all MeJA treated plants post MYMIV infection revealed that exogenous application of MeJA is effective for MYMIV tolerance in V. mungo. Our findings provide new insights into the physiological and molecular mechanisms of MYMIV tolerance in Vigna induced by MeJA.
We report a linkage map for Apios americana and describe synteny with selected warm-season legumes. A translocation event in common bean and soybean is confirmed against Apios and Vigna species. Apios (Apios americana; "apios"), a tuberous perennial legume in the Phaseoleae tribe, was widely used as a food by Native Americans. Work in the last 40 years has led to several improved breeding lines. Aspects of the pollination biology (complex floral structure and tripping mechanism) have made controlled crosses difficult, and the previous reports indicated that the plant is likely primarily an outcrosser. We used a pseudo-testcross strategy to construct a genetic map specific to the maternal parent. The map was built using single-nucleotide polymorphism markers identified by comparing the expressed sequences of individuals in the mapping population against a de novo maternal reference transcriptome assembly. The apios map consists of 11 linkage groups and 1121 recombinationally distinct loci, covering ~ 938.6 cM. By sequencing the transcriptomes of all potential pollen parents, we were able to identify the probable pollen donors and to discover new aspects of the pollination biology in apios. No selfing was observed, but multiple pollen parents were seen within individual pods. Comparisons with genome sequences in other species in the Phaseoleae showed extended synteny for most apios linkage groups. This synteny supports the robustness of the map, and also sheds light on the history of the Phaseoleae, as apios is relatively early diverging in this tribe. We detected a translocation event that separates apios and two Vigna species from Phaseolus vulgaris and Glycine max. This apios mapping work provides a general protocol for sequencing-based construction of high-density linkage maps in outcrossing species with heterogeneous pollen parents.
Many landraces of cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] are adapted to particular geographical and climatic conditions. Here we describe two landraces grown respectively in arid and temperate areas of Algeria and assess their physiological and molecular responses to drought stress. As expected, when deprived of water cowpea plants lose water over time with a gradual reduction in transpiration rate. The landraces differed in their relative water content (RWC) and whole plant transpiration rate. The landrace from Menia, an arid area, retained more water in adult leaves. Both landraces responded to drought stress at the molecular level by increasing expression of stress-related genes in aerial parts, including proline metabolism genes. Expression of gene(s) encoding proline synthesis enzyme P5CS was up regulated and gene expression of ProDH, a proline catabolism enzyme, was down regulated. Relatively low amounts of proline accumulated in adult leaves with slight differences between the two landraces. During drought stress the most apical part of plants stayed relatively turgid with a high RWC compared to distal parts that wilted. Expression of key stress genes was higher and more proline accumulated at the apex than in distal leaves indicating that cowpea has a non-uniform stress response at the whole plant level. Our study reveals a developmental control of water stress through preferential proline accumulation in the upper tier of the cowpea plant. We also conclude that cowpea landraces display physiological adaptations to water stress suited to the arid and temperate climates in which they are cultivated.
Yellow Mosaic Disease caused by the begomovirus Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV) severely affects many economically important legumes. Recent investigations in Vigna mungo - MYMIV incompatible interaction identified a MAPK homolog in the defense signaling pathway. An important branch of immunity involves phosphorylation by evolutionary conserved Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) that transduce signals of pathogen invasion to downstream molecules leading to diverse immune responses. However, most of the knowledge of MAPKs is derived from model crops, and functions of these versatile kinases are little explored in legumes. Here we report characterization of a MAP kinase (VmMAPK1), which was induced upon MYMIV-inoculation in resistant V. mungo. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that VmMAPK1 is closely related to other plant-stress-responsive MAPKs. Both mRNA and protein of VmMAPK1 were accumulated upon MYMIV infection. The VmMAPK1 protein localized in the nucleus as well as cytoplasm and possessed phosphorylation activity in vitro. A detailed biochemical characterization of purified recombinant VmMAPK1 demonstrated an intramolecular mechanism of autophosphorylation and self-catalyzed phosphate incorporation on both threonine and tyrosine residues. The V
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated phosphorylation cascade is a vital component of plant cellular signalling. Despite this, MAPK signalling cascade is less characterized in crop legumes. To fill this void, we present here a comprehensive phylogeny of MAPK kinases (MKKs) and MAPKs identified from 16 legume species belonging to genistoid (Lupinus angustifolius), dalbergioid (Arachis spp.), phaseoloid (Glycine max, Cajanus cajan, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Vigna spp.), and galegoid (Cicer arietinum, Lotus japonicus, Medicago truncatula, Pisum sativum, Trifolium spp., and Vicia faba) clades. Using the genes of the diploid crop chickpea (C. arietinum), an exhaustive interaction analysis was performed between MKKs and MAPKs by split-ubiquitin based yeast two-hybrid (Y2H). Twenty seven interactions of varying strengths were identified between chickpea MKKs and MAPKs. These interactions were verified in planta by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). As a first report in plants, four intra-molecular interactions of weak strength were identified within chickpea MKKs. Additionally; two TEOSINTE-BRANCHED1/CYCLOIDEA/PCF (TCP) transcription factors of class I were identified as novel down-stream interacting partners of seven MAPKs. We propose that this highly reliable MAPK interaction network, presented here for chickpea, can be utilized as a reference for legumes and thus will help in deciphering their role in legume-specific events.
Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is one of the most important legumes in tropical and semi-arid regions. However, there is relatively little genomic information available for genetic research on and breeding of cowpea. The objectives of this study were to analyse the cowpea transcriptome and develop genic molecular markers for future genetic studies of this genus. Approximately 54 million high-quality cDNA sequence reads were obtained from cowpea based on Illumina paired-end sequencing technology and were de novo assembled to generate 47,899 unigenes with an N50 length of 1534 bp. Sequence similarity analysis revealed 36,289 unigenes (75.8%) with significant similarity to known proteins in the non-redundant (Nr) protein database, 23,471 unigenes (49.0%) with BLAST hits in the Swiss-Prot database, and 20,654 unigenes (43.1%) with high similarity in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database. Further analysis identified 5560 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) as potential genic molecular markers. Validating a random set of 500 SSR markers yielded 54 polymorphic markers among 32 cowpea accessions. This transcriptomic analysis of cowpea provided a valuable set of genomic data for characterizing genes with important agronomic traits in Vigna unguiculata and a new set of genic SSR markers for further genetic studies and breeding in cowpea and related Vigna species.
The transport of proteins across the intestinal epithelium of insects is still not well understood. There is evidence that vicilin, a major storage protein of cowpea seeds (Vigna unguiculata), is internalized in larvae of the seed-beetle Callosobruchus maculatus. It has been reported that this vicilin interacts with proteins present in the microvillar membranes of columnar cells along the digestive tract of the larvae. In the present work, we studied the cellular pathway involved in endocytosis of vicilin in larval C. maculatus by employing ex vivo experiments. In the ex vivo approach, we incubated FITC-labelled vicilin with isolated midgut wholemounts in the absence or in the presence of endocytosis inhibitors. The fate of labelled or non-labelled globulins was monitored by confocal microscopy and fluorescence measurement. Our results suggest that the internalization of vicilins is due to receptor-mediated endocytosis. Here we report the identity of a microvillar vicilin-binding protein that was purified using affinity chromatography on a vicilin-sepharose column. The putative vicilin receptor showed high homology to proteins with the CRAL-TRIO domain, specifically the Sec14 superfamily member α-tocopherol transfer protein. The precise mechanism involved in vicilin internalization was defined through the use of specific inhibitors of the endocytosis pathway. The inhibitors filipin III and nystatin significantly inhibited the endocytosis of vicilin, while chlorpromazine and phenylarsine oxide had a much lower effect on endocytosis, suggesting that the endocytic pathway is predominantly mediated by caveolin.
Extracellular nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolases (NTPDases) are enzymes that hydrolyze extracellular nucleotides to the respective monophosphate nucleotides. In the past 20 years, NTPDases belonging to mammalian, parasitic and prokaryotic domains of life have been discovered, cloned and characterized. We reveal the first structures of NTPDases from the legume plant species Trifolium repens (7WC) and Vigna unguiculata subsp. cylindrica (DbLNP). Four crystal structures of 7WC and DbLNP were determined at resolutions between 1.9 and 2.6 Å. For 7WC, structures were determined for an -apo form (1.89 Å) and with the product AMP (2.15 Å) and adenine and phosphate (1.76 Å) bound. For DbLNP, a structure was solved with phosphate and manganese bound (2.60 Å). Thorough kinetic data and analysis is presented. The structure of 7WC and DbLNP reveals that these NTPDases can adopt two conformations depending on the molecule and co-factor bound in the active site. A central hinge region creates a "butterfly-like" motion of the domains that reduces the width of the inter-domain active site cleft upon molecule binding. This phenomenon has been previously described in Rattus norvegicus and Legionella pneumophila NTPDaseI and Toxoplasma gondii NTPDaseIII suggesting a common catalytic mechanism across the domains of life.
Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) causes significant losses in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) production. In this present study biochemical, physiological, and proteomic analysis were done to identify pathways and defense proteins that are altered during the incompatible interaction between the cowpea genotype BRS-Marataoã and CPSMV. The leaf protein extracts from mock- (MI) and CPSMV-inoculated plantlets (V) were evaluated at 2 and 6days post-inoculation (DPI). Data support the assumptions that increases in biochemical (high hydrogen peroxide, antioxidant enzymes, and secondary compounds) and physiological responses (high photosynthesis index and chlorophyll content), confirmed by label-free comparative proteomic approach, in which quantitative changes in proteasome proteins, proteins related to photosynthesis, redox homeostasis, regulation factors/RNA processing proteins were observed may be implicated in the resistance of BRS-Marataoã to CPSMV. This pioneering study provides information for the selection of specific pathways and proteins, altered in this incompatible relationship, which could be chosen as targets for detailed studies to advance our understanding of the molecular, physiological, and biochemistry basis of the resistance mechanism of cowpea and design approachs to engineer plants that are more productive. This is a pioneering study in which an incompatible relationship between a resistant cowpea and Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) was conducted to comparatively evaluate proteomic profiles by Gel-free/label-free methodology and some physiological and biochemical parameters to shed light on how a resistant cowpea cultivar deals with the virus attack. Specific proteins and associated pathways were altered in the cowpea plants challenged with CPSMV and will contribute to our knowledge on the biological process tailored by cowpea in response to CPSMV.
The MYB gene family represents one of the largest groups of transcription factors in plants. Recent evidences have also demonstrated key role of MYB transcription factors in regulating the expression of major genes involved in the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoid compounds which confer biotic and abiotic stress tolerance in plant species. However, no comprehensive genome-wide analysis of the phenylpropanoid pathway-associated MYB transcription factors has been reported thus far. In this study, 11 Arabidopsis MYB proteins, such as MYB3, MYB4, MYB7, MYB11, MYB12, MYB32, MYB75, MYB90, MYB111, MYB113, and MYB114 were initially identified considering their reported regulatory function in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway. Subsequent genome-wide analysis have identified the corresponding homologues from Glycine max, Vigna radiata, Oryza sativa, and Zea mays, while homologous of Arabidopsis MYB75, MYB90, MYB113, and MYB114 were not detected in rice and maize genomes. The identified MYB proteins were classified into three groups (I-III) based on phylogeny. Sequence and domain analysis revealed presence of two conserved DNA binding MYB domains in the selected MYB proteins. Promoter analysis indicated presence of cis-regulatory elements related to light signaling, development, and stress response. Expression analysis of selected Arabidopsis MYB genes revealed their function in plant development and abiotic stress response, consistent with gene ontology annotations. Together, these results provide a useful framework for further experimental studies for the functional characterization of the target MYB genes in the context of regulation of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and plant stress response.
Environmental changes generate free radicals and reactive oxygen species (ROS) resulting in abiotic stress in plants. This causes alterations in germination, morphology, growth and development ultimately leading to yield loss. Gamma irradiation was used to experimentally induce oxidative damage in an important pulse crop Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek or mung bean. Our research was aimed towards augmentation of oxidative stress tolerance through treatment with a group of aliphatic amines known as polyamines. We used sub-lethal doses of gamma irradiation to generate oxidative damage which was evaluated using Nitro blue tetrazolium (NBT) staining, total antioxidant activity, 1, 1-Diphenyl-2-picryl hydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging assay, proline content and lipid peroxidation. Changes in internal free polyamines and messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression of key rate-limiting S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC) enzyme in polyamine biosynthetic pathway was studied using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). We observed increased oxidative damage with higher irradiation dose which was partially alleviated by putrescine treatment. Internal levels of putrescine and spermidine increased with 1 mM (50 and 100 Gy) and 2 mM putrescine treatment. Expression of SAMDC also increased with putrescine treatment. This study shows that treatment with putrescine can partially alleviate oxidative damage caused by gamma rays.
Black gram (Vigna mungo) seeds are a rich source of digestible proteins, however, during storage these seeds are severely damaged by bruchids (Callosobruchus spp.), reducing seed quality and yield losses. Most of the cultivated genotypes of black gram are susceptible to bruchids, however, few tolerant genotypes have also been identified but the mechanism of tolerance is poorly understood. We employed Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH) to identify specifically, but rarely expressed bruchid egg induced genes in black gram. In this study, Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH) library was constructed to study the genes involved in defense response in black gram against bruchid infestation. An EST library of 277 clones was obtained for further analyses. Based on CAP3 assembly, 134 unigenes were computationally annotated using Blast2GOPRO software. In all, 20 defense related genes were subject to quantitative PCR analysis (qPCR) out of which 12 genes showed up-regulation in developing seeds of the pods oviposited by bruchids. Few major defense genes like defensin, pathogenesis related protein (PR), lipoxygenase (LOX) showed high expression levels in the oviposited population when compared with the non-oviposited plants. This is the first report on defense related gene transcript dynamics during the bruchid-black gram interaction using SSH library. This library would be useful to clone defense related gene(s) such as defensin as represented in our library for crop improvement.
Two cysteine proteinase inhibitors from cowpea, VuCys1 and VuCys2, were produced in E. coli ArcticExpress (DE3). The recombinant products strongly inhibited papain and chymopapain as well as the midgut proteases from Callosobruchus maculatus larvae, a bruchid that uses cysteine proteases as major digestive enzymes. Heat treatment at 100°C for up to 60min or incubation at various pH values caused little reduction in the papain inhibitory activity of both inhibitors. Moreover, minor conformational variations, as probed by circular dichroism spectroscopy, were observed after VuCys1 and VuCys2 were subjected to these treatments. The crystal structure of VuCys1 was determined at a resolution of 1.95Å, revealing a domain-swapped dimer in the asymmetric unit. However, the two lobes of the domain-swapped dimer are positioned closer to each other in VuCys1 in comparison to other similar cystatin structures. Moreover, some polar residues from opposite lobes recruit water molecules, forming a hydrogen bond network that mediates contacts between the lobes, thus generating an extended open interface. Due to the closer distance between the lobes, a small hydrophobic core is also formed, further stabilizing the folded domain-swapped dimer. These structural features might account for the extraordinary thermal and pH stability of VuCys1.
Host specialization is an ubiquitous character in aphid populations. Many polyphagous aphid populations usually consist of several subpopulations that have strong fidelity to a specific host or a subset of host range. Host specialization is an evolutional result of food habit of insects. However, genetic basis and molecular mechanism of host specialization are still unclear. In this study, we presented a comparative analysis on global gene expression profiles of three lineages of Aphis gossypii Glover: cotton-specialized (CO), cucurbit-specialized (CU), and CU reared on cowpea (CU-cowpea), using RNA-Seq method. More than 157 million clean reads and 38,398 different unigenes were generated from transcriptomes of these three aphid lineages. The 1,106 down- and 2,835 up-regulated genes were found between CO and CU, and 812 down- and 14,492 up-regulated genes between CU-cowpea and CU. Differentially expressed genes between CO and CU were enriched in sugar metabolism, immune system process, pathogen infection or symbiosis, and salivary secretion. Genes associated with cytochrome P450, major facilitator superfamily, and salivary effector were differentially expressed between CO and CU, which might be involved in determining host specialization. UDP-glycosyltransferases genes were sensitive to host shift. Carboxylesterases and digestion-related protease genes were related to both the host specialization and host shift of aphids. Expression levels of 22 out of 24 genes of CO and CU measured by RT-qPCR method were as similar as the results from RNA-seq method. This study provides a road map for future study on molecular mechanism of host specialization in aphids.
Lead (Pb) is one of the most toxic anthropogenic pollutants, occurring widely in both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, where it impairs plant growth and development. In this work, the effect of 0.5 mM EDTA-Pb was evaluated in two Vigna unguiculata cultivars (SV and SET), with the aim of detecting genotype/cultivar dependent changes in the physiological and anti-oxidant responses (CAT and APX) of a leguminous plant. The data showed that SV accumulated more Pb in roots while SET accumulated more in leaves, indicating differential regulation in Pb-translocation/accumulation. Lead affected the growth of SV less severely than SET, mainly associated with reduced inhibition in photosynthetic parameters. Furthermore, CAT and APX activities increased or were sustained at elevated levels in both cultivars in response to lead. However, gene expression analyses revealed that CAT1 was the main lead responsive gene in SET while CAT2 was more responsive in SV. APX1 was higher expressed in tissues with higher Pb-accumulation while APX2 was ubiquitously responsive to lead in both cultivars. Taken together, these results reveal differential ability of V. unguiculata cultivars in Pb-accumulation in different tissues affecting distinctly physiological and anti-oxidant responses. In addition, the existence of cultivars with predominant Pb-accumulation in aerial tissues invokes a need for studies to identify pollution-safe cultivars of leguminous plants to ensure food safety.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are 20-24 nucleotides long non-coding RNAs known to play important regulatory roles during biotic and abiotic stresses by controlling gene expression. Blackgram (Vigna mungo), an economically important grain legume is highly susceptible to pathogenic begomovirus Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV) and resulting in high yield loss. In this study two different leaf-small-RNA libraries were prepared from the pooled RNA at three different time points of resistant V. mungo inbred line VM84 inoculated either with viruliferous or non-viruliferous whiteflies carrying MYMIV and performed high-throughput Illumina sequencing. Sequencing followed by bioinformatics analysis of the small RNA reads indicated that the expression patterns of most of the known and novel miRNAs were altered in resistant line over mock-inoculated sample during the plant virus incompatible interaction. Highly altered miRNAs belong to the families of miR156, miR159, miR160, miR166, miR398, miR1511, miR1514, miR2118 and novel vmu-miRn7, vmu-miRn8, vmu-miRn13 and vmu-miRn14. These results were validated using qPCR, and most of the miRNAs showed similar pattern of expression like that of Illumina reads. The expression patterns of some selected known and novel miRNAs were also compared between the infected MYMIV-resistant and -susceptible genotypes and most of these were modulated after MYMIV-inoculation. Target transcripts like NB-LRR, NAC, MYB, Zinc finger, CCAAT-box transcription factor, fructose 2-6 bisphosphate, HDZIP protein that confers immune response were predicted as targets amongst identified miRNAs using psRNATarget server. Some selected target transcripts including NB-LRR, ARF, SOD, SPB, Basic blue copper protein were validated and their differential expression were demonstrated between MYMIV-resistant and -susceptible V. mungo by qPCR data analyses. In the present study we have identified miRNAs that implicate in the regulation of MYMIV-induced stress response in V. mungo; and generated genomic resources for a non-model legume with the aid of bioinformatics tools supplemented by experimental validation.
Global interest in sugarcane has increased significantly in recent years because of its economic impact on sustainable energy production. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate changes in the concentrations of total sugars, amino acids, free proline, and total proteins by colorimetric analyses and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) to perform a metabolic profiling of a water-soluble fraction of symplastic sap in response to the constitutive expression of a mutant Δ
Hydrogen peroxide (H RNA-Seq data revealed that H Using RNA-Seq and qRT-PCR techniques, we analysed the global changes in gene expression and functional profiling during H
Cowpea is a grain legume native from Africa and is a primary source of protein for millions of people in sub-Saharan Africa and other parts of the developing world. The main important characteristics of this crop include a good protein quality with a high nutritional value, its nitrogen-fixing ability, and an ability to be more drought- and heat-tolerant than most of its legume relatives. In a research perspective, studies of cowpea are relatively scarce, despite its relevance to agriculture in the developing world and its resilience to stress. The present review provides an overview of different aspects of cowpea, with a special emphasis on the molecular markers for assessing genetic diversity, as well as on biochemical and transcriptomic data with respect to evaluating cowpea drought stress tolerance. The integration of both datasets will be useful for the improvement of cowpea because research on drought stress tolerance is of major interest for this crop in a challenging environment. © 2017 Society of Chemical Industry.
Cereals and legumes are traditionally consumed together in many cultures, and may provide complementary health benefits beyond what is known about improved indispensable amino acid intake. Here, we use an in vitro model of inflammatory pathways to investigate whether the different flavonoids in sorghum and cowpea could synergistically reduce inflammation. Interactive effect of combining apigenin and quercetin, as well as extracts (70% acetone, v/v) from a flavone-dominated white sorghum and flavonol-dominated white cowpea, against LPS-induced NF-κB and downstream cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8) gene and protein expression was evaluated using the CCD18Co colon myofibroblasts. Combination of apigenin and quercetin, and sorghum and cowpea extracts synergistically downregulated LPS-induced NF-κB gene and protein expression in a dose-dependent manner, with additive effect producing IC Combining the structurally related cereal flavones and legume flavonols elicit strong synergistic anti-inflammatory response in LPS-stimulated nonmalignant colonocytes, likely by targeting interdependent mechanisms.
DNA methylation on cytosine residues is known to affect gene expression and is potentially responsible for the phenotypic variations among different crop cultivars. Here, we present the whole-genome DNA methylation profiles and assess the potential effects of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for two mungbean cultivars, Sunhwanogdu (VC1973A) and Kyunggijaerae#5 (V2984). By measuring the DNA methylation levels in leaf tissue with the bisulfite sequencing (BSseq) approach, we show both the frequencies of the various types of DNA methylation and the distribution of weighted gene methylation levels. SNPs that cause nucleotide changes from/to CHH - where C is cytosine and H is any other nucleotide - were found to affect DNA methylation status in VC1973A and V2984. In order to better understand the correlation between gene expression and DNA methylation levels, we surveyed gene expression in leaf tissues of VC1973A and V2984 using RNAseq. Transcript expressions of paralogous genes were controlled by DNA methylation within the VC1973A genome. Moreover, genes that were differentially expressed between the two cultivars showed distinct DNA methylation patterns. Our mungbean genome-wide methylation profiles will be valuable resources for understanding the phenotypic variations between different cultivars, as well as for molecular breeding.
The potential benefits of Aspergillus-fermented mung bean seed coats (FMSC) for weaned pigs remain unexplored. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments were employed to evaluate the potential of FMSC supplement on the growth, antioxidant and immune responses of weaned pigs. The total polyphenols and DPPH scavenging capability of ethanol extract of FMSC exhibited a greater (p < 0.01) increase than those of pre-fermentation. With the addition of the polyphenol of FMSC extract, an increase in phagocytosis by neutrophils and proliferation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were found. However, these observations were significantly inhibited (p < 0.05) in those activated cells. Next, 96 weaned pigs were allotted with a randomized complete block design into four dietary treatments, including 0 (control), 600, 1200 or 1800 mg/kg FMSC in a corn-soya bean meal basal diet for a 35-day trial. The pigs were injected with swine enzootic pneumonia (SEP) vaccines at day 3 and day 21 respectively. The results showed that dietary treatment failed to affect growth performance or serum SEP titre. The diet supplemented with 600-1800 mg/kg FMSC decreased faecal lactoferrin on day 21 and increased plasma trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) and erythrocytes catalase activity, as well as decreased (p < 0.01) plasma malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration on day 35. Diet supplementation of 1800 mg/kg FMSC increased phagocytosis by neutrophils and PBMC proliferation induced by pokeweed mitogen (PWM). However, the polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMN)-positive respiratory burst cells were decreased in the supplementation of 1200 or 1800 mg/kg FMSC respectively. In addition, the serum haptoglobin concentration was decreased in the supplementation with 1200 mg/kg FMSC. Taken together, FMSC enriches polyphenols with antioxidative and immune modulated properties. After feeding FMSC, an improvement in antioxidative capability and immunocompetence was found, implying that FMSC could provide as a feed additive at optimal level 1200 mg/kg for weaned pigs.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) is one of the most important legume crops in Asian countries like China, Japan and Korea due to its nutritious protein and starch contents. In spite of its economic importance, gene expression analysis system for gene function verification of adzuki bean is still absent. Therefore, reference genes for gene expression analysis based on the quantitative real time PCR (qRT-PCR) were screened in current study. A total of nine general housekeeping genes, including ACT, Fbox, ZMPP, GAPDH, EF, PP2A, UBC, UBN and PTB were evaluated for their expression stability by qRT-PCR in four adzuki bean cultivars, three different tissues, four abiotic stress and one biotic stress. The best group of candidates as reference genes were as follows: PTB and ACT for different cultivars; EF and UBN for different tissues; ACT and ZMPP for biotic stress and waterlogging stress; Fbox and UBC for salinity-alkalinity stress; Fbox and PTB for drought stress. Our results will provide a more accurate and reliable normalization of qRT-PCR data in adzuki bean.
The type III secretion system (T3SS) is a specialized secretion apparatus that is commonly used by many plant and animal pathogenic bacteria to deliver proteins, termed effectors, to the interior of the host cells. These effectors suppress host defenses and interfere with signal transduction pathways to promote infection. Some rhizobial strains possess a functional T3SS, which is involved in the suppression of host defense responses, host range determination, and symbiotic efficiency. The analysis of the genome of the broad-host-range rhizobial strain
Viruses are important plant pathogens that threaten diverse crops worldwide. Diseases caused by Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) have drawn attention because of the serious damages they cause to economically important crops including cowpea. This work was undertaken to quantify and identify the responsive proteins of a susceptible cowpea genotype infected with CPSMV, in comparison with mock-inoculated controls, using label-free quantitative proteomics and databanks, aiming at providing insights on the molecular basis of this compatible interaction. Cowpea leaves were mock- or CPSMV-inoculated and 2 and 6 days later proteins were extracted and analyzed. More than 3000 proteins were identified (data available via ProteomeXchange, identifier PXD005025) and 75 and 55 of them differentially accumulated in response to CPSMV, at 2 and 6 DAI, respectively. At 2 DAI, 76% of the proteins decreased in amount and 24% increased. However, at 6 DAI, 100% of the identified proteins increased. Thus, CPSMV transiently suppresses the synthesis of proteins involved particularly in the redox homeostasis, protein synthesis, defense, stress, RNA/DNA metabolism, signaling, and other functions, allowing viral invasion and spread in cowpea tissues.
As the prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), including steatosis and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, is increasing, novel dietary approaches are required for the prevention and treatment of NAFLD. We evaluated the potential of mung bean protein isolate (MuPI) to prevent NAFLD progression. In Expts. 1 and 2, the hepatic triglyceride (TG) concentration was compared between 8-wk-old male mice fed a high-fat diet (61% of energy from fat) containing casein, MuPI, and soy protein isolate and an MuPI-constituent amino acid mixture as a source of amino acids (18% of energy) for 4 wk. In Expt. 3, hepatic fatty acid synthase (Fasn) expression was evaluated in 8-wk-old male Fasn-promoter-reporter mice fed a casein- or MuPI-containing high-fat diet for 20 wk. In Expt. 4, hepatic fibrosis was examined in 8-wk-old male mice fed an atherogenic diet (61% of energy from fat, containing 1.3 g cholesterol/100 g diet) containing casein or MuPI (18% of energy) as a protein source for 20 wk. In the high fat-diet mice, the hepatic TG concentration in the MuPI group decreased by 66% and 47% in Expt. 1 compared with the casein group (P < 0.001) and the soy protein isolate group (P = 0.001), respectively, and decreased by 56% in Expt. 2 compared with the casein group (P = 0.011). However, there was no difference between the MuPI-constituent amino acid mixture and casein groups in Expt. 2. In Expt. 3, Fasn-promoter-reporter activity and hepatic TG concentration were lower in the MuPI group than in those fed casein (P < 0.05). In Expt. 4, in mice fed an atherogenic diet, hepatic fibrosis was not induced in the MuPI group, whereas it developed overtly in the casein group. MuPI potently reduced hepatic lipid accumulation in mice and may be a potential foodstuff to prevent NAFLD onset and progression.
Urochloa humidicola (Koronivia grass) is a polyploid (6x to 9x) species that is used as forage in the tropics. Facultative apospory apomixis is present in most of the genotypes of this species, although one individual has been described as sexual. Molecular studies have been restricted to molecular marker approaches for genetic diversity estimations and linkage map construction. The objectives of the present study were to describe and compare the leaf transcriptome of two important genotypes that are highly divergent in terms of their phenotypes and reproduction modes: the sexual BH031 and the aposporous apomictic cultivar BRS Tupi. We sequenced the leaf transcriptome of Koronivia grass using an Illumina GAIIx system, which produced 13.09 Gb of data that consisted of 163,575,526 paired-end reads between the two libraries. We de novo-assembled 76,196 transcripts with an average length of 1,152 bp and filtered 35,093 non-redundant unigenes. A similarity search against the non-redundant National Center of Biotechnology Information (NCBI) protein database returned 65 % hits. We annotated 24,133 unigenes in the Phytozome database and 14,082 unigenes in the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot database, assigned 108,334 gene ontology terms to 17,255 unigenes and identified 5,324 unigenes in 327 known metabolic pathways. Comparisons with other grasses via a reciprocal BLAST search revealed a larger number of orthologous genes for the Panicum species. The unigenes were involved in C4 photosynthesis, lignocellulose biosynthesis and flooding stress responses. A search for functional molecular markers revealed 4,489 microsatellites and 560,298 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). A quantitative real-time PCR analysis validated the RNA-seq expression analysis and allowed for the identification of transcriptomic differences between the two evaluated genotypes. Moreover, 192 unannotated sequences were classified as containing complete open reading frames, suggesting that the new, potentially exclusive genes should be further investigated. The present study represents the first whole-transcriptome sequencing of U. humidicola leaves, providing an important public information source of transcripts and functional molecular markers. The qPCR analysis indicated that the expression of certain transcripts confirmed the differential expression observed in silico, which demonstrated that RNA-seq is useful for identifying differentially expressed and unique genes. These results corroborate the findings from previous studies and suggest a hybrid origin for BH031.
The effects of sodium citrate (SC), sodium acetate (SA) and sodium tartrate (ST) spraying on mung bean germination were investigated. Exogenous SC, ST and SA treatments significantly reduced the phytic acid content and increased the antioxidant enzyme activities. In this study, an iTRAQ-based proteomic approach was employed to explore the proteomes of mung bean sprouts, and 81, 101 and 90 differentially expressed proteins were identified in 4-day-old SC-, SA- and ST-treated mung bean sprouts, with 38 proteins present in all samples. Functional classification analysis showed that most of the differentially expressed proteins in mung bean sprouts subjected to the three treatments were involved in carbohydrate and energy metabolism. The inhibitory effect of the SA treatment was probably due to impairments in protein biosynthesis, whereas enhanced energy metabolism, accelerated reserve hydrolysis and protein processing were very important strategies for growth stimulation in response to ST and SC treatments.
The physiological and biochemical responses of a drought tolerant, virus-susceptible cowpea genotype exposed to drought stress (D), infected by Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) (V), and to these two combined stresses (DV), at 2 and 6 days post viral inoculation (DPI), were evaluated. Gas exchange parameters (net photosynthesis, transpiration rate, stomatal conductance, and internal CO
Mungbean (Vigna radiata L. Wilczek) is one of the most important leguminous food crops in Asia. We employed Illumina paired-end sequencing to analyse transcriptomes of three different mungbean genotypes. A total of 38.3-39.8 million pairedend reads with 73 bp lengths were generated. The pooled reads from the three libraries were assembled into 56,471 transcripts. Following a cluster analysis, 43,293 unigenes were obtained with an average length of 739 bp and N50 length of 1176 bp. Of the unigenes, 34,903 (80.6%) had significant similarity to known proteins in the NCBI nonredundant protein database (Nr), while 21,450 (58.4%) had BLAST hits in the Swiss-Prot database (E-value<10⁻⁵). Further, 1245 differential expression genes were detected among three mungbean genotypes. In addition, we identified 3788 expressed sequence tag-simple sequence repeat (EST-SSR) motifs that could be used as potential molecular markers. Among 320 tested loci, 310 (96.5%) yielded amplification products, and 151 (47.0%) exhibited polymorphisms among six mungbean accessions. These transcriptome data and mungbean EST-SSRs could serve as a valuable resource for novel gene discovery and the marker-assisted selective breeding of this species.
Cowpea (V. unguiculata L. Walp) is a climate resilient legume crop important for food security. Cultivated cowpea (V. unguiculata L) generally comprises the bushy, short-podded grain cowpea dominant in Africa and the climbing, long-podded vegetable cowpea popular in Asia. How selection has contributed to the diversification of the two types of cowpea remains largely unknown. In the current study, a novel genotyping assay for over 50 000 SNPs was employed to delineate genomic regions governing pod length. Major, minor and epistatic QTLs were identified through QTL mapping. Seventy-two SNPs associated with pod length were detected by genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Population stratification analysis revealed subdivision among a cowpea germplasm collection consisting of 299 accessions, which is consistent with pod length groups. Genomic scan for selective signals suggested that domestication of vegetable cowpea was accompanied by selection of multiple traits including pod length, while the further improvement process was featured by selection of pod length primarily. Pod growth kinetics assay demonstrated that more durable cell proliferation rather than cell elongation or enlargement was the main reason for longer pods. Transcriptomic analysis suggested the involvement of sugar, gibberellin and nutritional signalling in regulation of pod length. This study establishes the basis for map-based cloning of pod length genes in cowpea and for marker-assisted selection of this trait in breeding programmes.
Acyl Activating Enzyme3 (AAE3) was identified to be involved in the catabolism of oxalate, which is critical for seed development and defense against fungal pathogens. However, the role of AAE3 protein in abiotic stress responses is unknown. Here, we investigated the role of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) VuAAE3 in Al tolerance. Recombinant VuAAE3 protein has specific activity against oxalate, with K
Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-[India:Vigna] (MYMV-[IN:Vig]), a blackgram isolate of MYMV, causes yellow mosaic disease in blackgram and mungbean. Two variable DNA-B components, KA22 and KA27, cause distinct symptoms in blackgram [V. mungo (L.) Hepper] with the same DNA-A component. KA22 + DNA-A-agroinoculated blackgram plants displayed yellow mosaic symptom and accumulated high levels of viral single-stranded (ss) DNA. KA27 + DNA-A-agroinoculated blackgram plants displayed severe stunting symptom and accumulated very low levels of viral ssDNA. However, in mungbean [V. radiata (L.) Wilczek], KA27 + DNA-A caused yellow mosaic symptom and a high level of viral ssDNA accumulated. Swapping of KA27 DNA-B with the nuclear shuttle protein gene (NSP) of KA22 DNA-B (KA27xKA22 NSP) caused yellow mosaic symptom in blackgram, suggesting that KA22 NSP is the determinant of yellow mosaic symptom. Interestingly, KA27xKA22 NSP-infected blackgram plants accumulated high levels of viral ssDNA, comparable to that of KA22 DNA-B infection, suggesting that the KA22 NSP is responsible for accumulation of high levels of viral ssDNA. MYMV distribution was studied in blackgram and mungbean plants by leaf tissue hybridization, which showed mesophyll spread of the virus in KA22-infected blackgram leaflets and in KA27-infected mungbean leaflets, both of which displayed yellow mosaic symptom. However, the virus did not accumulate in the mesophyll in the case of KA27-infected blackgram leaflets. Interestingly, the swapped KA27xKA22 NSP-infected blackgram leaflets showed mesophyll accumulation of the virus, suggesting that KA22 NSP determines its mesophyll spread.
In this study on 90 individuals we aimed at evaluating the microRNAs (miRNAs) expression profile associated with personal levels of Titanium (Ti) and Zirconium (Zr) traced in hair samples. Ti and Zr materials are broadly used for dental implants but the biological reactions triggered by a long term presence of these materials in the oral cavity still need to be assessed. MiRNAs are mechanisms that need to be investigated as they play a fundamental role in the control of gene expression following external stimuli and contribute to a wide range of pathophysiological processes. Using the TaqMan® Low-Density Array, we assessed the expression levels of 377 human miRNAs in peripheral blood of 90 subjects. Hair samples were analyzed for Ti and Zr content using Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry. We performed multivariable regression analysis to investigate the effects of Ti and Zr exposure on miRNA expression levels. We used the Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software to explore the functional role of the investigated miRNAs and the related target genes. Seven miRNAs (miR-99b, miR-142-5p, miR-152, miR-193a-5p, miR-323-3p, miR-335, miR-494) resulted specifically associated with Zr levels. The functional target analysis showed that miRNAs are involved in mechanisms such as inflammation, skeletal and connective tissue disorders. Our data suggest that Zr is more bioactive than Ti and show that miRNAs are relevant molecular mechanisms sensitive to Zr exposure.
Piriformospora indica biomass generated in different growth media Rose Bengal medium, Kaefer's Medium, Enriched Soil Medium, Malt extract Medium and Czapek Dox was quantified and? their bioinoculum potential was compared using? moong bean (Vigna radiata) as? test plant. Plant chlorophyll content in response to inoculations was lowest in Rose Bengal medium (2.772mg plant-1) and highest due to inoculum produced on Enriched soil Medium (3.694 mg plant-1). The highest nitrogen content (19.260 mg plant-1) was recorded by inoculum produced on Kaefer's Medium followed by Enriched Soil Medium (19.123 mg plant-1), ME (18.19 mg plant-1) and CD medium (17.71 mg plant-1). The highest plant phosphorus uptake was registered in Enriched Soil Medium (17.153 mg plant-1) followed by Kaefer's Medium (17.023 mg plant-1). Maximum dry weight of plants was observed by inoculation with fungus cultured in Kaefer's Medium (3.416 g pot-1) and Enriched Soil Medium (3.349 g pot-1). Thus, growth medium used for the culture of fungus can influence its bioefficacy as plant growth promoting agent and Piriformospora indica can be grown on cost effective and simple mass multiplication medium which could augment its usage for commercial purposes.
Proteasome inhibitors are emerging as a new class of chemopreventive agents and have gained huge importance as potential pharmacological tools in breast cancer treatment. Improved understanding of the role played by proteases and their specific inhibitors in humans offers novel and challenging opportunities for preventive and therapeutic intervention. In this study, we demonstrated that the Bowman-Birk protease inhibitor from Vigna unguiculata seeds, named black-eyed pea trypsin/chymotrypsin Inhibitor (BTCI), potently suppresses human breast adenocarcinoma cell viability by inhibiting the activity of proteasome 20S. BTCI induced a negative growth effect against a panel of breast cancer cells, with a concomitant cytostatic effect at the G2/M phase of the cell cycle and an increase in apoptosis, as observed by an augmented number of cells at the sub-G1 phase and annexin V-fluorescin isothiocyanate (FITC)/propidium iodide (PI) staining. In contrast, BTCI exhibited no cytotoxic effect on normal mammary epithelial cells. Moreover, the increased levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and changes in the mitochondrial membrane potential in cells treated with BTCI indicated mitochondrial damage as a crucial cellular event responsible for the apoptotic process. The higher activity of caspase in tumoral cells treated with BTCI in comparison with untreated cells suggests that BTCI induces apoptosis in a caspase-dependent manner. BTCI affected NF-kB target gene expression in both non invasive and invasive breast cancer cell lines, with the effect highly pronounced in the invasive cells. An increased expression of interleukin-8 (IL-8) in both cell lines was also observed. Taken together, these results suggest that BTCI promotes apoptosis through ROS-induced mitochondrial damage following proteasome inhibition. These findings highlight the pharmacological potential and benefit of BTCI in breast cancer treatment.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) is an important rotation legume crop for human nutrition in Asia. Bruchids (Callosobruchus spp.) currently cause heavy damage as pests of grain legumes during storage. We used omics-related technologies to study the mechanisms of bruchid resistance in seeds of the nearly isogenic lines VC1973A (bruchid-susceptible) and VC6089A (bruchid-resistant). A total of 399 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between the two lines by transcriptome sequencing. Among these DEGs, 251 exhibited high expression levels and 148 expressed low expression levels in seeds of VC6089A. Forty-five differential proteins (DPs) were identified by isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ); 21 DPs had higher abundances in VC6089A, and 24 DPs had higher abundances in VC1973A. According to transcriptome and proteome data, only three DEGs/DPs, including resistant-specific protein (g39185), gag/pol polyprotein (g34458), and aspartic proteinase (g5551), were identified and located on chromosomes 5, 1, and 7, respectively. Both g39185 and g34458 genes encode a protein containing a BURP domain. In previous research on bruchid molecular markers, the g39185 gene located close to the molecular markers of major bruchid-resistant locus may be a bruchid-resistant gene.
Legume research and cultivar development are important for sustainable food production, especially of high-protein seed. Thanks to the development of deep-sequencing technologies, crop species have been taken to the front line, even without completion of their genome sequences. Black-eyed pea (Vigna unguiculata) is a legume species widely grown in semi-arid regions, which has high potential to provide stable seed protein production in a broad range of environments, including drought conditions. The black-eyed pea reference genotype has been used to generate a gene expression atlas of the major plant tissues (i.e. leaf, root, stem, flower, pod and seed), with a developmental time series for pods and seeds. From these various organs, 27 cDNA libraries were generated and sequenced, resulting in more than one billion reads. Following filtering, these reads were de novo assembled into 36 529 transcript sequences that were annotated and quantified across the different tissues. A set of 24 866 unique transcript sequences, called Unigenes, was identified. All the information related to transcript identification, annotation and quantification were stored into a gene expression atlas webserver (http://vugea.noble.org), providing a user-friendly interface and necessary tools to analyse transcript expression in black-eyed pea organs and to compare data with other legume species. Using this gene expression atlas, we inferred details of molecular processes that are active during seed development, and identified key putative regulators of seed maturation. Additionally, we found evidence for conservation of regulatory mechanisms involving miRNA in plant tissues subjected to drought and seeds undergoing desiccation.
Alternative splicing (AS) can produce multiple mature mRNAs from the same primary transcript, thereby generating diverse proteins and phenotypes from the same gene. To assess the prevalence of AS in mungbean (Vigna radiata), we analysed whole-genome RNA sequencing data from root, leaf, flower and pod tissues and found that at least 37.9% of mungbean genes are subjected to AS. The number of AS transcripts exhibited a strong correlation with exon number and thus resembled a uniform probabilistic event rather than a specific regulatory function. The proportion of frameshift splicing was close to the expected frequency of random splicing. However, alternative donor and acceptor AS events tended to occur at multiples of three nucleotides (i.e. the codon length) from the main splice site. Genes with high exon number and expression level, which should have the most AS if splicing is purely stochastic, exhibited less AS, implying the existence of negative selection against excessive random AS. Functional AS is probably rare: a large proportion of AS isoforms exist at very low copy per cell on average or are expressed at much lower levels than default transcripts. Conserved AS was only detected in 629 genes (2.8% of all genes in the genome) when compared to Vigna angularis, and in 16 genes in more distant species like soya bean. These observations highlight the challenges of finding and cataloguing candidates for experimentally proven AS isoforms in a crop genome.
Formate dehydrogenase (FDH) is involved in various higher plant abiotic stress responses. Here, we investigated the role of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) VuFDH in Al and low pH (H(+)) tolerance. Screening of various potential substrates for the VuFDH protein demonstrated that it functions as a formate dehydrogenase. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and histochemical analysis showed that the expression of VuFDH is induced in rice bean root tips by Al or H(+) stresses. Fluorescence microscopic observation of VuFDH-GFP in transgenic Arabidopsis plants indicated that VuFDH is localized in the mitochondria. Accumulation of formate is induced by Al and H(+) stress in rice bean root tips, and exogenous application of formate increases internal formate content that results in the inhibition of root elongation and induction of VuFDH expression, suggesting that formate accumulation is involved in both H(+)- and Al-induced root growth inhibition. Over-expression of VuFDH in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) results in decreased sensitivity to Al and H(+) stress due to less production of formate in the transgenic tobacco lines under Al and H(+) stresses. Moreover, NtMATE and NtALS3 expression showed no changes versus wild type in these over-expression lines, suggesting that herein known Al-resistant mechanisms are not involved. Thus, the increased Al tolerance of VuFDH over-expression lines is likely attributable to their decreased Al-induced formate production. Taken together, our findings advance understanding of higher plant Al toxicity mechanisms, and suggest a possible new route toward the improvement of plant performance in acidic soils, where Al toxicity and H(+) stress coexist.
Vigna mungo (blackgram) is an important leguminous pulse crop, which is grown for its protein rich edible seeds. Drought and salinity are the major abiotic stresses which adversely affect the growth and productivity of crop plants including blackgram. The ALDRXV4 belongs to the aldo-keto reductase superfamily of enzymes that catalyze the reduction of carbonyl metabolites in the cells and plays an important role in the osmoprotection and detoxification of the reactive carbonyl species. In the present study, we developed transgenic plants of V. mungo using Agrobacterium mediated transformation. The transgene integration was confirmed by Southern blot analysis whereas the expression was confirmed by RT-PCR, Western blot and enzyme activity. The T1 generation transgenic plants displayed improved tolerance to various environmental stresses, including drought, salt, methyl viologen and H2O2 induced oxidative stress. The increased aldose reductase activity, higher sorbitol content and less accumulation of the toxic metabolite, methylglyoxal in the transgenic lines under non-stress and stress (drought and salinity) conditions resulted in increased protection through maintenance of better photosynthetic efficiency, higher relative water content and less photooxidative damage. The accumulation of reactive oxygen species was remarkably decreased in the transgenic lines as compared with the wild type plants. This study of engineering multiple stress tolerance in blackgram, is the first report to date and this strategy for trait improvement is proposed to provide a novel germplasm for blackgram production on marginal lands.
Cowpea (V. unguiculata L. Walp.) is an important tropical grain legume. Asparagus bean (V. unguiculata ssp. sesquipedialis) is a distinctive subspecies of cowpea, which is considered one of the top ten Asian vegetables. It can be adapted to a wide range of environmental stimuli such as drought and heat. Nevertheless, it is an extremely cold-sensitive tropical species. Improvement of chilling tolerance in asparagus bean may significantly increase its production and prolong its supply. However, gene regulation and signaling pathways related to cold response in this crop remain unknown. Using Illumina sequencing technology, modification of global gene expression in response to chilling stress in two asparagus bean cultivars-"Dubai bean" and "Ningjiang-3", which are tolerant and sensitive to chilling, respectively-were investigated. More than 1.8 million clean reads were obtained from each sample. After de novo assembly, 88,869 unigenes were finally generated with a mean length of 635 bp. Of these unigenes, 41,925 (47.18%) had functional annotations when aligned to public protein databases. Further, we identified 3,510 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in Dubai bean, including 2,103 up-regulated genes and 1,407 down-regulated genes. While in Ningjiang-3, we found 2,868 DEGs, 1,786 of which were increasing and the others were decreasing. 1,744 DEGs were commonly regulated in two cultivars, suggesting that some genes play fundamental roles in asparagus bean during cold stress. Functional classification of the DEGs in two cultivars using Mercator pipeline indicated that RNA, protein, signaling, stress and hormone metabolism were five major groups. In RNA group, analysis of TFs in DREB subfamily showed that ICE1-CBF3-COR cold responsive cascade may also exist in asparagus bean. Our study is the first to provide the transcriptome sequence resource for asparagus bean, which will accelerate breeding cold resistant asparagus bean varieties through genetic engineering, and advance our knowledge of the genes involved in the complex regulatory networks of this plant under cold stress.
Rice bean (Vigna umbellata (Thunb.) Ohwi & Ohashi) is a warm season annual legume mainly grown in East Asia. Only scarce genomic resources are currently available for this legume crop species and no simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers have been specifically developed for rice bean yet. In this study, approximately 26 million high quality cDNA sequence reads were obtained from rice bean using Illumina paired-end sequencing technology and assembled into 71,929 unigenes with an average length of 986 bp. Of these unigenes, 38,840 (33.2%) showed significant similarity to proteins in the NCBI non-redundant protein and nucleotide sequence databases. Furthermore, 30,170 (76.3%) could be classified into gene ontology categories, 25,451 (64.4%) into Swiss-Prot categories and 21,982 (55.6%) into KOG database categories (E-value < 1.0E-5). A total of 9,301 (23.5%) were mapped onto 118 pathways using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genome (KEGG) pathway database. A total of 3,011 genic SSRs were identified as potential molecular markers. AG/CT (30.3%), AAG/CTT (8.1%) and AGAA/TTCT (20.0%) are the three main repeat motifs. A total of 300 SSR loci were randomly selected for validation by using PCR amplification. Of these loci, 23 primer pairs were polymorphic among 32 rice bean accessions. A UPGMA dendrogram revealed three major clusters among 32 rice bean accessions. The large number of SSR-containing sequences and genic SSRs in this study will be valuable for the construction of high-resolution genetic linkage maps, association or comparative mapping and genetic analyses of various Vigna species.
The researches on the identification of gibberellin receptor are reviewed from the early attempts in 1960s to the identification of GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1) as the receptor in 2005. Unpublished data of the gibberellin-binding protein in the seedlings of adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) are also included, suggesting that the active principle of the gibberellin-binding protein was a GID1 homolog.
Cardiac hypertrophy is a major risk factor for heart failure. Hence, its attenuation represents an important clinical goal. Erk1,2 signalling is pivotal in the cardiac response to stress, suggesting that its inhibition may be a good strategy to revert heart hypertrophy. In this work, we unveiled the events associated with cardiac hypertrophy by means of a transgenic model expressing activated Met receptor. c-Met proto-oncogene encodes for the tyrosine kinase receptor of Hepatocyte growth factor and is a strong inducer of Ras-Raf-Mek-Erk1,2 pathway. We showed that three weeks after the induction of activated Met, the heart presents a remarkable concentric hypertrophy, with no signs of congestive failure and preserved contractility. Cardiac enlargement is accompanied by upregulation of growth-regulating transcription factors, natriuretic peptides, cytoskeletal proteins, and Extracellular Matrix remodelling factors (Timp1 and Pai1). At a later stage, cardiac hypertrophic remodelling results into heart failure with preserved systolic function. Prevention trial by suppressing activated Met showed that cardiac hypertrophy is reversible, and progression to heart failure is prevented. Notably, treatment with Pimasertib, Mek1 inhibitor, attenuates cardiac hypertrophy and remodelling. Our results suggest that modulation of Erk1.2 signalling may constitute a new therapeutic approach for treating cardiac hypertrophies.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata [L.] R. Wilczek) is an important legume crop with high nutritional value in South and Southeast Asia. The crop plant is susceptible to a storage pest caused by bruchids (Callosobruchus spp.). Some wild and cultivated mungbean accessions show resistance to bruchids. Genomic and transcriptomic comparison of bruchid-resistant and -susceptible mungbean could reveal bruchid-resistant genes (Br) for this pest and give insights into the bruchid resistance of mungbean. Flow cytometry showed that the genome size varied by 61 Mb (mega base pairs) among the tested mungbean accessions. Next generation sequencing followed by de novo assembly of the genome of the bruchid-resistant recombinant inbred line 59 (RIL59) revealed more than 42,000 genes. Transcriptomic comparison of bruchid-resistant and -susceptible parental lines and their offspring identified 91 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) classified into 17 major and 74 minor bruchid-resistance-associated genes. We found 408 nucleotide variations (NVs) between bruchid-resistant and -susceptible lines in regions spanning 2 kb (kilo base pairs) of the promoters of 68 DEGs. Furthermore, 282 NVs were identified on exons of 148 sequence-changed-protein genes (SCPs). DEGs and SCPs comprised genes involved in resistant-related, transposable elements (TEs) and conserved metabolic pathways. A large number of these genes were mapped to a region on chromosome 5. Molecular markers designed for variants of putative bruchid-resistance-associated genes were highly diagnostic for the bruchid-resistant genotype. In addition to identifying bruchid-resistance-associated genes, we found that conserved metabolism and TEs may be modifier factors for bruchid resistance of mungbean. The genome sequence of a bruchid-resistant inbred line, candidate genes and sequence variations in promoter regions and exons putatively conditioning resistance as well as markers detecting these variants could be used for development of bruchid-resistant mungbean varieties.
Bambara groundnut (Vigna subterranea (L.) Verdc.) is an African legume and is a promising underutilized crop with good seed nutritional values. Low temperature stress in a number of African countries at night, such as Botswana, can effect the growth and development of bambara groundnut, leading to losses in potential crop yield. Therefore, in this study we developed a computational pipeline to identify and analyze the genes and gene modules associated with low temperature stress responses in bambara groundnut using the cross-species microarray technique (as bambara groundnut has no microarray chip) coupled with network-based analysis. Analyses of the bambara groundnut transcriptome using cross-species gene expression data resulted in the identification of 375 and 659 differentially expressed genes (p<0.01) under the sub-optimal (23°C) and very sub-optimal (18°C) temperatures, respectively, of which 110 genes are commonly shared between the two stress conditions. The construction of a Highest Reciprocal Rank-based gene co-expression network, followed by its partition using a Heuristic Cluster Chiseling Algorithm resulted in 6 and 7 gene modules in sub-optimal and very sub-optimal temperature stresses being identified, respectively. Modules of sub-optimal temperature stress are principally enriched with carbohydrate and lipid metabolic processes, while most of the modules of very sub-optimal temperature stress are significantly enriched with responses to stimuli and various metabolic processes. Several transcription factors (from MYB, NAC, WRKY, WHIRLY & GATA classes) that may regulate the downstream genes involved in response to stimulus in order for the plant to withstand very sub-optimal temperature stress were highlighted. The identified gene modules could be useful in breeding for low-temperature stress tolerant bambara groundnut varieties.
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) is commonly grown in Asia as an important nutritional dry grain legume, as it can survive better in arid conditions than other crops. Abiotic stresses, such as drought and high-salt contents, negatively impact its growth and production. The dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2 (DREB2) transcription factors play a significant role in the response to these stress stimuli via transcriptional regulation of downstream genes containing the cis-element dehydration-responsive element (DRE). However, the molecular mechanisms involved in the drought tolerance of this species remain elusive, with very few reported candidate genes. No DREB2 ortholog has been reported for mung bean, and the function of mung bean DREB2 is not clear. In this study, a novel VrDREB2A gene with conserved AP2 domains and transactivation ability was isolated from mung bean. A modified VrDREB2A protein lacking the putative negative regulatory domain encoded by nucleotides 394-543 was shown to be localized in the nucleus. Expression of the VrDREB2A gene was induced by drought, high salt concentrations and abscisic acid treatment. Furthermore, comparing with the wild type Arabidopsis, the overexpression of VrDREB2A activated the expression of downstream genes in transgenic Arabidopsis, resulting in enhanced tolerance to drought and high-salt stresses and no growth retardation. The results from this study indicate that VrDREB2A functions as an important transcriptional activator and may help increase the abiotic stress tolerance of the mung bean plant.
Asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis) is the Asian subspecies of cowpea, a drought-resistant legume crop native to Africa. In order to explore the genetic variation of drought responses in asparagus bean, we conducted multi-year phenotyping of drought resistance traits across the Chinese asparagus bean mini-core. The phenotypic distribution indicated that the ssp. sesquipedalis subgene pool has maintained high natural variation in drought responses despite known domestic bottleneck. Thirty-nine SNP loci were found to show an association with drought resistance via a genome-wide association study (GWAS). Whole-plant water relations were compared among four genotypes by lysimetric assay. Apparent genotypic differences in transpiration patterns and the critical soil water threshold in relation to dehydration avoidance were observed, indicating a delicate adaptive mechanism for each genotype to its own climate. Microarray gene expression analyses revealed that known drought resistance pathways such as the ABA and phosphate lipid signaling pathways are conserved between different genotypes, while differential regulation of certain aquaporin genes and hormonal genes may be important for the genotypic differences. Our results suggest that divergent sensitivity to soil water content is an important mechanism configuring the genotypic specific responses to water deficit. The SNP markers identified provide useful resources for marker-assisted breeding.
Sinorhizobium (Ensifer) fredii HH103 is a broad host-range nitrogen-fixing bacterium able to nodulate many legumes, including soybean. In several rhizobia, root nodulation is influenced by proteins secreted through the type 3 secretion system (T3SS). This specialized secretion apparatus is a common virulence mechanism of many plant and animal pathogenic bacteria that delivers proteins, called effectors, directly into the eukaryotic host cells where they interfere with signal transduction pathways and promote infection by suppressing host defenses. In rhizobia, secreted proteins, called nodulation outer proteins (Nops), are involved in host-range determination and symbiotic efficiency. S. fredii HH103 secretes at least eight Nops through the T3SS. Interestingly, there are Rhizobium-specific Nops, such as NopC, which do not have homologues in pathogenic bacteria. In this work we studied the S. fredii HH103 nopC gene and confirmed that its expression was regulated in a flavonoid-, NodD1- and TtsI-dependent manner. Besides, in vivo bioluminescent studies indicated that the S. fredii HH103 T3SS was expressed in young soybean nodules and adenylate cyclase assays confirmed that NopC was delivered directly into soybean root cells by means of the T3SS machinery. Finally, nodulation assays showed that NopC exerted a positive effect on symbiosis with Glycine max cv. Williams 82 and Vigna unguiculata. All these results indicate that NopC can be considered a Rhizobium-specific effector secreted by S. fredii HH103.
Obesity is often considered to result from either excessive food intake or insufficient physical activity. Adzuki beans have been evaluated as potential remedies for various health conditions, and recent studies have reported their effects on the regulation of lipid metabolism, but it remains to be determined whether they may be effective in overcoming obesity by regulating appetite and satiety. This study investigated the effect of black adzuki bean (BAB) extract on body composition and hypothalamic neuropeptide expression in Sprague Dawley rats (Rattus norvegicus) fed a high-fat diet. The rats were fed for 8 weeks with a control diet containing 10 kcal% from fat (CD), a high-fat diet containing 60 kcal% from fat (HD), or a high-fat diet with 1% or 2% freeze-dried ethanolic extract powder of BAB (BAB-1 and BAB-2). The body weights and epididymal fat weights were significantly reduced and the serum lipid profiles were improved in the group fed the diet containing BAB compared to the HD group. The expression of AGRP mRNA significantly decreased in the BAB groups, and treatment with BAB-2 resulted in a marked induction of the mRNA expression of POMC and CART, which are anorexigenic neuropeptides that suppress food intake. Furthermore, mRNA expression levels of ObRb, a gene related to leptin sensitivity in the hypothalamus, were significantly higher in the BAB groups than in the HD group. These results suggest that supplementation with BAB has a significant effect on body weight via regulation of hypothalamic neuropeptides.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis), an important legume crop, is grown in more than 30 countries of the world. The seed of adzuki bean, as an important source of starch, digestible protein, mineral elements, and vitamins, is widely used foods for at least a billion people. Here, we generated a high-quality draft genome sequence of adzuki bean by whole-genome shotgun sequencing. The assembled contig sequences reached to 450 Mb (83% of the genome) with an N50 of 38 kb, and the total scaffold sequences were 466.7 Mb with an N50 of 1.29 Mb. Of them, 372.9 Mb of scaffold sequences were assigned to the 11 chromosomes of adzuki bean by using a single nucleotide polymorphism genetic map. A total of 34,183 protein-coding genes were predicted. Functional analysis revealed that significant differences in starch and fat content between adzuki bean and soybean were likely due to transcriptional abundance, rather than copy number variations, of the genes related to starch and oil synthesis. We detected strong selection signals in domestication by the population analysis of 50 accessions including 11 wild, 11 semiwild, 17 landraces, and 11 improved varieties. In addition, the semiwild accessions were illuminated to have a closer relationship to the cultigen accessions than the wild type, suggesting that the semiwild adzuki bean might be a preliminary landrace and play some roles in the adzuki bean domestication. The genome sequence of adzuki bean will facilitate the identification of agronomically important genes and accelerate the improvement of adzuki bean.
Plant-fungus interactions usually generate H(2)O(2) in the infected plant tissue. H(2)O(2) has a direct antimicrobial effect and is involved in the cross-linking of cell walls, signaling, induction of gene expression, hypersensitive cell death and induced systemic acquired resistance. This has raised the hypothesis that H(2)O(2) manipulation by pharmacological compounds could alter the lifestyle of Colletotrichum gloeosporioides during interaction with the BR-3-Tracuateua cowpea genotype. The primary leaves of cowpea were excised, infiltrated with salicylic acid (SA), glucose oxidase + glucose (GO/G), catalase (CAT) or diphenyliodonium chloride (DPI), followed by spore inoculation on the adaxial leaf surface. SA or GO/G-treated plantlets showed increased H(2)O(2) accumulation and lipid peroxidation. The fungus used a subcuticular, intramural necrotrophic strategy, and developed secondary hyphae associated with the quick spread and rapid killing of host cells. However, CAT or DPI-treated leaves exhibited decreased H(2)O(2) concentration and lipid peroxidation and the fungus developed intracellular hemibiotrophic infection with vesicles, in addition to primary and secondary hyphal formation. These results suggest that H(2)O(2) plays an important role in the cowpea (C. gloeosporioides) pathosystem given that it affected fungal lifestyle during interaction.
The activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) has a beneficial effect on hyperglycaemia. The aim of this study was to examine whether an azuki bean (Vigna angularis) extract (ABE) stimulates the AMPK or insulin signalling pathways in a liver cell line in response to hyperglycaemia, as well as in a diabetic rat liver. HepG2 cells were incubated with 5 or 20 mmol L(-1) glucose and then treated with ABE. Streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats received 0, 10, or 40 mg kg(-1) ABE orally. Blood chemistry and phosphorylation of AMPK and Akt (a serine/threonine kinase) in the livers were examined. There was a significant increase in the levels of AMPK and Akt phosphorylation in ABE-treated HepG2 cells. AMPK phosphorylation increased significantly in glucose-stimulated HepG2 cells that were treated with ABE. In the 40 mg kg(-1) ABE-treated diabetic rats, the glucose levels were lower than in the control. Phosphorylation of AMPK in ABE-untreated diabetic rat livers decreased significantly. Conversely, ABE treatment increased the phosphorylation of AMPK and Akt in the diabetic rat liver. ABE treatment upregulated AMPK phosphorylation in HepG2 cells, and upregulated AMPK and Akt phosphorylation in the diabetic rat liver. These data suggest that ABE can potentially improve glucose intolerance.
Phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) is a major phospholipid in eukaryotic cells. Many studies have revealed that the phosphoinositide (PI) signaling pathway plays an important role in plant growth and development. Phospholipase C (PLC) is reported to have a crucial role in the PI pathway. This work focuses on the isolation and investigation of PLC in response to abiotic stress factors in green gram. The PLC cDNA, designated VrPLC, encoding a protein of 591 amino acids was cloned and expressed in E. coli. The predicted isoelectric point (pI) and molecular weight were 5.96 and 67.3 kDa, respectively. The tertiary structure of the PLC was also predicted and found to be mainly composed of random coils. In addition, VrPLC expression analysis was performed under environmental stress and the results showed that the expression of VrPLC was rapidly induced in an abscisic acid independent manner in response to drought and salt stress. PLC expression was found to be up-regulated by SA and down-regulated by wound in leaf tissues; however, there was no significant difference in the expression of PLC in plants subjected to high temperature and H2O2. Our results suggest that a close link/relationship between PLC expression and stress responses in green gram.
The adzuki bean (Vigna angularis (Ohwi) Ohwi and Ohashi) is an important grain legume of Asia. It is cultivated mainly in China, Japan and Korea. Despite its importance, few genomic resources are available for molecular genetic research of adzuki bean. In this study, we developed EST-SSR markers for the adzuki bean through next-generation sequencing. More than 112 million high-quality cDNA sequence reads were obtained from adzuki bean using Illumina paired-end sequencing technology, and the sequences were de novo assembled into 65,950 unigenes. The average length of the unigenes was 1,213 bp. Among the unigenes, 14,547 sequences contained a unique simple sequence repeat (SSR) and 3,350 sequences contained more than one SSR. A total of 7,947 EST-SSRs were identified as potential molecular markers, with mono-nucleotide A/T repeats (99.0%) as the most abundant motif class, followed by AG/CT (68.4%), AAG/CTT (30.0%), AAAG/CTTT (26.2%), AAAAG/CTTTT (16.1%), and AACGGG/CCCGTT (6.0%). A total of 500 SSR markers were randomly selected for validation, of which 296 markers produced reproducible amplicons with 38 polymorphic markers among the 32 adzuki bean genotypes selected from diverse geographical locations across China. The large number of SSR-containing sequences and EST-SSR markers will be valuable for genetic analysis of the adzuki bean and related Vigna species.
An awesome number of experimental and clinical evidences indicate that constitutive activation of the Met oncogenic receptor plays a critical role in the progression of cancer toward metastasis and/or resistance to targeted therapies. While mutations are rare, the common mechanism of Met activation is overexpression, either by gene amplification ('addiction') or transcriptional activation ('expedience'). In the first instance ligand-independent kinase activation plays a major role in sustaining the transformed phenotype. Anti-Met antibodies directed against the receptor binding site behave essentially as ligand (Hepatocyte Growth Factor, HGF) antagonists and are ineffective to counteract ligand-independent activation. The monovalent chimeric MvDN30 antibody fragment, PEGylated to extend its half-life, binds the fourth IPT domain and induces 'shedding' of the Met extracellular domain, dramatically reducing both the number of receptors on the surface and their phosphorylation. Downstream signaling is thus inhibited, both in the absence or in the presence of the ligand. In vitro, MvDN30 is a strong inhibitor not only of ligand-dependent invasive growth, sustained by both paracrine and autocrine HGF, but notably, also of ligand-independent growth of 'Met-addicted' cells. In immunocompromised mice, lacking expression of Hepatocyte Growth Factor cross-reacting with the human receptor - thus providing, by definition, a model of 'ligand-independent' Met activation - PEGylated MvDN30 impairs growth of Met 'addicted' human gastric carcinoma cells. In a Met-amplified patient-derived colo-rectal tumor (xenopatient) MvDN30-PEG overcomes the resistance to EGFR targeted therapy (Cetuximab). The PEGylated MvDN30 is thus a strong candidate for targeting tumors sustained by ligand-independent Met oncogenic activation.
We performed deep sequencing of the nuclear and organellar genomes of three mungbean genotypes: Vigna radiata ssp. sublobata TC1966, V. radiata var. radiata NM92 and the recombinant inbred line RIL59 derived from a cross between TC1966 and NM92. Moreover, we performed deep sequencing of the RIL59 transcriptome to investigate transcript variability. The mungbean chloroplast genome has a quadripartite structure including a pair of inverted repeats separated by two single copy regions. A total of 213 simple sequence repeats were identified in the chloroplast genomes of NM92 and RIL59; 78 single nucleotide variants and nine indels were discovered in comparing the chloroplast genomes of TC1966 and NM92. Analysis of the mungbean chloroplast transcriptome revealed mRNAs that were affected by transcriptional slippage and RNA editing. Transcriptional slippage frequency was positively correlated with the length of simple sequence repeats of the mungbean chloroplast genome (R2=0.9911). In total, 41 C-to-U editing sites were found in 23 chloroplast genes and in one intergenic spacer. No editing site that swapped U to C was found. A combination of bioinformatics and experimental methods revealed that the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase-transcribed genes psbF and ndhA are affected by transcriptional slippage in mungbean and in main lineages of land plants, including three dicots (Glycine max, Brassica rapa, and Nicotiana tabacum), two monocots (Oryza sativa and Zea mays), two gymnosperms (Pinus taeda and Ginkgo biloba) and one moss (Physcomitrella patens). Transcript analysis of the rps2 gene showed that transcriptional slippage could affect transcripts at single sequence repeat regions with poly-A runs. It showed that transcriptional slippage together with incomplete RNA editing may cause sequence diversity of transcripts in chloroplasts of land plants.
Black gram [V. mungo (L.) Hepper] is an important legume crop extensively grown in south and south-east Asia, where it is a major source of dietary protein for its predominantly vegetarian population. However, lack of genomic information and markers has become a limitation for genetic improvement of this crop. Here, we report the transcriptome sequencing of the immature seeds of black gram cv. TU94-2, by Illumina paired end sequencing technology to generate transcriptome sequences for gene discovery and genic-SSR marker development. A total of 17.2 million paired-end reads were generated and 48,291 transcript contigs (TCS) were assembled with an average length of 443 bp. Based on sequence similarity search, 33,766 TCS showed significant similarity to known proteins. Among these, only 29,564 TCS were annotated with gene ontology (GO) functional categories. A total number of 138 unique KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) pathways were identified, of which majority of TCS are grouped into purine metabolism (678) followed by pyrimidine metabolism (263). A total of 48,291 TCS were searched for SSRs and 1,840 SSRs were identified in 1,572 TCS with an average frequency of one SSR per 11.9 kb. The tri-nucleotide repeats were most abundant (35%) followed by di-nucleotide repeats (32%). PCR primer pairs were successfully designed for 933 SSR loci. Sequences analyses indicate that about 64.4% and 35.6% of the SSR motifs were present in the coding sequences (CDS) and untranslated regions (UTRs) respectively. Tri-nucleotide repeats (57.3%) were preferentially present in the CDS. The rate of successful amplification and polymorphism were investigated using selected primers among 18 black gram accessions. Genic-SSR markers developed from the Illumina paired end sequencing of black gram immature seed transcriptome will provide a valuable resource for genetic diversity, evolution, linkage mapping, comparative genomics and marker-assisted selection in black gram.
ZAP-70 is a marker of clinical outcome in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), however its assessment suffers from a lack of standardization consensus. To identify novel markers able to surrogate IGHV mutational status, CD19(+)CD5(+)-B-lymphocytes from 216 patients enrolled in a prospective study (ClinicalTrial.gov Identifier:NCT00917540), underwent gene expression profiling. Samples were split into CLL-Training (n=102) and CLL-Validation (n=114) sets, and an independent supervised analysis for IGHV mutational status was performed considering all genes with gene expression equal or above that of ZAP-70. Thirty-one genes (23 up- and 8 down-regulated) and 23 genes (18 up- and 5 down-regulated) satisfied these criteria in the CLL-Training and CLL-Validation sets, respectively, and 20 common genes (15 up and 5 down) were found to be differentially regulated in both sets. Two (SNORA70F, NRIP1) of the down-regulated and 6 (SEPT10, ZNF667, TGFBR3, MBOAT1, LPL, CRY1) of the up-regulated genes were significantly associated with a reduced risk of disease progression in both sets. Forcing the afore-mentioned genes in a Cox multivariate model together with IGHV mutational status, only CRY1 (HR=2.3, 95% CI: 1.1-4.9, P=.027) and MBOAT1 (HR=2.1, 95% CI: 1.1-3.7, P=.018) retained their independent prognostic impact, supporting the hypothesis that these genes may potentially act as surrogates for predicting IGHV mutational status.
The rice bean (Vigna umbellata) root apex specifically secretes citrate through expression activation of Vigna umbellata Multidrug and Toxic Compound Extrusion 1 (VuMATE1) under aluminum (Al(3+) ) stress. However, the underlying mechanisms regulating VuMATE1 expression remain unknown. We isolated and characterized a gene encoding Sensitive to Proton Rhizotoxicity1 (STOP1)-like protein, VuSTOP1, from rice bean. The role of VuSTOP1 in regulating VuMATE1 expression was investigated using the yeast one-hybrid assay. We characterized the function of VuSTOP1 in Al(3) (+) - and H(+) -tolerance using in planta complementation assays. We demonstrated that VuSTOP1 has transactivation potential. We found that VuSTOP1 expression is inducible by Al(3+) and H(+) stress. However, although VuSTOP1 binds to the promoter of VuMATE1, the inconsistent tissue localization patterns of VuSTOP1 and VuMATE1 preclude VuSTOP1 as the major factor regulating VuMATE1 expression. In addition, when a protein translation inhibitor increased expression of VuSTOP1, VuMATE1 expression was inhibited. In planta complementation assay demonstrated that VuSTOP1 could fully restore expression of genes involved in H(+) tolerance, but could only partially restore expression of AtMATE. We conclude that VuSTOP1 plays a major role in H(+) tolerance, but only a minor role in Al(3+) tolerance. The differential transcriptional regulation of VuSTOP1 and VuMATE1 reveals a complex regulatory system controlling VuMATE1 expression.
Mung bean is an important legume crop in tropical and subtropical countries of Asia and has high nutritional and economic value. However the genetic diversity of mung bean is poorly characterized. In this study, our goal was to develop and use microsatellite simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers for germplasm evaluation. In total, 500 novel expression sequence tag EST-based SSRs (eSSRs) and genomic SSRs (gSSRs) were developed from mung bean transcriptome and genome sequences. Of these, only 58 were useful for diversity evaluation in a panel of 157 cultivated and wild mung bean accessions from different collection sites in East Asia. A total of 2.66 alleles were detected on average per locus which shows that polymorphism is generally low for the species. The average polymorphic information content (PIC) of gSSRs was higher than eSSRs and most of the polymorphic gSSRs were composed of di- and tri-nucleotide repeats (52.4% and 38.1% of all loci, respectively). The genotypes were differentiated into nine subgroups by cluster analysis, and the wild mung bean accessions separated well from the cultivated accessions. Analysis of molecular variance indicated that 22% of variance was observed among populations and 78% was due to differences within populations. Clustering, population structure analyses showed that non-Chinese cultivated and wild mung bean accessions were separated from Chinese accessions, but no geographical distinctions existed between genotypes collected in China. Interestingly, the average PIC value of cultivated mung bean (0.36) was higher than that of wild mung bean (0.25) showing that further collecting and wide crosses are necessary for mung bean improvement.
Mung bean (Vigna radiate (L.) Wilczek) is an important traditional food legume crop, with high economic and nutritional value. It is widely grown in China and other Asian countries. Despite its importance, genomic information is currently unavailable for this crop plant species or some of its close relatives in the Vigna genus. In this study, more than 103 million high quality cDNA sequence reads were obtained from mung bean using Illumina paired-end sequencing technology. The processed reads were assembled into 48,693 unigenes with an average length of 874 bp. Of these unigenes, 25,820 (53.0%) and 23,235 (47.7%) showed significant similarity to proteins in the NCBI non-redundant protein and nucleotide sequence databases, respectively. Furthermore, 19,242 (39.5%) could be classified into gene ontology categories, 18,316 (37.6%) into Swiss-Prot categories and 10,918 (22.4%) into KOG database categories (E-value < 1.0E-5). A total of 6,585 (8.3%) were mapped onto 244 pathways using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genome (KEGG) pathway database. Among the unigenes, 10,053 sequences contained a unique simple sequence repeat (SSR), and 2,303 sequences contained more than one SSR together in the same expressed sequence tag (EST). A total of 13,134 EST-SSRs were identified as potential molecular markers, with mono-nucleotide A/T repeats being the most abundant motif class and G/C repeats being rare. In this SSR analysis, we found five main repeat motifs: AG/CT (30.8%), GAA/TTC (12.6%), AAAT/ATTT (6.8%), AAAAT/ATTTT (6.2%) and AAAAAT/ATTTTT (1.9%). A total of 200 SSR loci were randomly selected for validation by PCR amplification as EST-SSR markers. Of these, 66 marker primer pairs produced reproducible amplicons that were polymorphic among 31 mung bean accessions selected from diverse geographical locations. The large number of SSR-containing sequences found in this study will be valuable for the construction of a high-resolution genetic linkage maps, association or comparative mapping and genetic analyses of various Vigna species.
Intensive agriculture has resulted in an indiscriminate use of pesticides, which demands in-depth analysis of their impact on indigenous rhizospheric microbial community structure and function. Hence, the objective of the present work was to study the impact of two chemical pesticides (chlorpyrifos and cypermethrin) and one biological pesticide (azadirachtin) at two dosages on the microbial community structure using cultivation-dependent approach and on rhizospheric bacterial communities involved in nitrogen cycle in Vigna radiata rhizosphere through cultivation-independent technique of real-time PCR. Cultivation-dependent study highlighted the adverse effects of both chemical pesticide and biopesticide on rhizospheric bacterial and fungal communities at different plant growth stages. Also, an adverse effect on number of genes and transcripts of nifH (nitrogen fixation); amoA (nitrification); and narG, nirK, and nirS (denitrification) was observed. The results from the present study highlighted two points, firstly that nontarget effects of pesticides are significantly detrimental to soil microflora, and despite being of biological origin, azadirachtin exerted negative impact on rhizospheric microbial community of V. radiata behaving similar to chemical pesticides. Hence, such nontarget effects of chemical pesticide and biopesticide in plants' rhizosphere, which bring out the larger picture in terms of their ecotoxicological effect, demand a proper risk assessment before application of pesticides as agricultural amendments.
Using an F2 population derived from cultivated and wild azuki bean, we previously detected a reciprocal translocation and a seed size QTL near the translocation site. To test the hypothesis that the translocation in the cultivated variety contributed to the larger seed size, we performed further linkage analyses with several cross combinations between cultivated and wild azuki beans. In addition, we visually confirmed the translocation by cytogenetic approach using 25 wild and cultivated accessions. As a result, we found the translocation-type chromosomes in none of the cultivated accessions, but in a number of the wild accessions. Interestingly, all the wild accessions with the translocation were originally collected from East Japan, while all the accessions with normal chromosomes were from West Japan or the Sea of Japan-side region. Such biased geographical distribution could be explained by the glacial refugium hypothesis, and supported narrowing down the domestication origin of cultivated azuki bean.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important legume species well adapted to low fertility soils and prolonged drought periods. One of the main problems that cause severe yield losses in cowpea is the root-knot nematode Meloidogyne incognita. The aim of this work was to analyze the differential expression of proteins in the contrasting cultivars of cowpea CE 31 (highly resistant) and CE 109 (slightly resistant) during early stages of M. incognita infection. Cowpea roots were collected at 3, 6, and 9 days after inoculation and used for protein extraction and 2-DE analysis. From a total of 59 differential spots, 37 proteins were identified, mostly involved in plant defense, such as spermidine synthase, patatin, proteasome component, and nitrile-specifier protein. A follow-up study was performed by quantitative RT-PCR analysis of nine selected proteins and the results revealed a very similar upregulation trend between the protein expression profiles and the corresponding transcripts. This study also identified ACT and GAPDH as a good combination of reference genes for quantitative RT-PCR analysis of the pathosystem cowpea/nematode. Additionally, an interactome analysis showed three major pathways affected by nematode infection: proteasome endopeptidase complex, oxidative phosphorylation, and flavonoid biosynthesis. Taken together, the results obtained by proteome, transcriptome, and interactome approaches suggest that oxidative stress, ubiquitination, and glucosinolate degradation may be part of cowpea CE 31 resistance mechanisms in response to nematode infection.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis var. angularis) is a dietary legume crop in East Asia. The presumed progenitor (Vigna angularis var. nipponensis) is widely found in East Asia, suggesting speciation and domestication in these temperate climate regions. Here, we report a draft genome sequence of adzuki bean. The genome assembly covers 75% of the estimated genome and was mapped to 11 pseudo-chromosomes. Gene prediction revealed 26,857 high confidence protein-coding genes evidenced by RNAseq of different tissues. Comparative gene expression analysis with V. radiata showed that the tissue specificity of orthologous genes was highly conserved. Additional re-sequencing of wild adzuki bean, V. angularis var. nipponensis, and V. nepalensis, was performed to analyze the variations between cultivated and wild adzuki bean. The determined divergence time of adzuki bean and the wild species predated archaeology-based domestication time. The present genome assembly will accelerate the genomics-assisted breeding of adzuki bean.
Antioxidative compounds were quantified from the leaves of nine black gram (Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper) genotypes over a period of two years, for potential whitefly, Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius) (Hemiptera: Aleryrodidae) resistance. Oviposition preference, nymphal and adult development were evaluated under screen-house conditions. Biochemical analysis revealed that higher per cent increase in the total phenol and o-dihydroxy phenol contents both at 30 and 50 days after sowing was evident in moderately resistant genotypes NDU 5-7 (49.6 and 50.8%, respectively) and KU 99-20 (47.8 and 50.8%, respectively) under whitefly stress conditions as compared to non-stressed plants. Tannin and flavonol contents in leaves increased to varying degrees (up to 11.1 and 7.1%, respectively) in resistant plants after whitefly infestation, indicating that the changes in tannin and flavonol contents were closely associated with the resistance to whitefly. Correlation studies relating leaf content of black gram antioxidative compounds from different genotypes with whitefly population were also worked out. Total phenols (r = -0.71 & -0.88), o- dihydroxy phenols (r = -0.56 & -0.76), flavonols (r = -0.80 & -0.81) and tannins (r= -0.16 & -0.26) showed significant negative correlation with whitefly population (nymphs and adults) suggesting that enhanced level of these biochemicals may contribute to bioprotection of black gram plants against B. tabaci infestation. Comparatively higher level of resistance in genotype NDU 5-7 and KU 99-20 can serve as base for genetic improvement of black gram, focusing on the development of resistant varieties to B. tabaci.
Eureka lemon (Citrus limon) is an economically important crop in China. In 2009, a new disease was observed on Eureka lemon in an orchard of Ruili city in Yunnan Province. Nearly 10% of the plants were symptomatic with yellow vein clearing on lateral veins, combined with leaf crinkling and warping of young leaves. Water-soaked appearances were also seen on the adaxial leaf veins. The symptoms were present on mature leaves, resulting in almost 20% yield reduction. The symptoms on leaves were more severe in spring and autumn than in summer. This disease was transmitted by grafting from infected Eureka lemon to six lemon (C. limon) varieties (Femminello, Fino, Villafranca, Verna, Kutdiken, and Monachello) and two sour orange (C. aurantium) varieties (Daidai, Morocco), with inoculated plants showing similar symptoms. Variable symptoms were observed on other hosts, including severe yellowing and vein clearing on Dweet tangor (C. reticulata × C. sinensis), slight vein clearing on Tongshui 72-1 sweet orange (C. sinensis) and Marsh grapefruit (C. paradisi), but no symptoms were observed on Etrog citron (C. medica), Mexican lime (C. aurantifolia), or Ponkan (C. reticulata). When infected branches from Etrog citron, Mexican lime, and Ponkan were grafted onto healthy Morocco sour orange, typical yellowing and vein clearing symptoms were observed. In the mechanical transmission trials using eight herbaceous plant species, leaf rolling, shrinking, and pointed necrosis were observed on Vigna unguiculata, slight leaf rolling symptoms were observed on Capsicum frutescens, whereas Lycopersicum esculenum, Nicotiana benthamiana, Momordica charantia, Solanum melongena, Cucumis sativus, and Sesamum indicum remained symptomless. Symptom expression was influenced by temperature, being visible between 18 and 24°C but disappearing over 32°C. Crude extracts from young symptomatic lemon leaves were negatively stained for transmission electron microscopy observation (1) and showed filamentous virus particles of 13 to 15 × 400 to 1,000 nm. The described combination of symptoms in citrus species and herbaceous indicators, and virus morphology revealed by electron microscopy, suggested presence of Citrus yellow vein clearing virus (CYVCV). RNA extractions were made from 52 samples of Eureka lemon with yellow vein clearing symptoms. A one-step RT-PCR using primer pair (sense: 5'-TACCGCAGCTATCCATTTCC-3' and antisense: 5'-GCAGAAATCCCGAACCACTA-3'), designed from coat protein gene of CYVCV genome (GenBank Accession No. JX040635) (1), was performed. All of the symptomatic samples yielded the expected cDNA fragment and no amplicon was obtained from healthy plants. Three PCR amplicons were selected for cloning and sequencing. BLAST analysis showed that these nucleotide sequences (KJ859679 to 81) had greater than 97% nucleotide identity with the corresponding region of CYVCV reference genome (2), and therefore, this disease was associated with CYVCV. Symptoms resembling CYVCV infection were observed in China before (3); however, to our knowledge, this is the first proven report of CYVCV present in China. The identification of the pathogen now allows for appropriate field management and control measures. References: (1) V. Grimaldi et al. 13th IOCV Conference, 343-345, 1996. (2) G. Loconsole et al. Phytopathology 102:1168, 2012. (3) C. Zhou et al. 18th IOCV Conference, 44, 2010.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata) is a fast-growing, warm-season legume crop that is primarily cultivated in developing countries of Asia. Here we construct a draft genome sequence of mungbean to facilitate genome research into the subgenus Ceratotropis, which includes several important dietary legumes in Asia, and to enable a better understanding of the evolution of leguminous species. Based on the de novo assembly of additional wild mungbean species, the divergence of what was eventually domesticated and the sampled wild mungbean species appears to have predated domestication. Moreover, the de novo assembly of a tetraploid Vigna species (V. reflexo-pilosa var. glabra) provides genomic evidence of a recent allopolyploid event. The species tree is constructed using de novo RNA-seq assemblies of 22 accessions of 18 Vigna species and protein sets of Glycine max. The present assembly of V. radiata var. radiata will facilitate genome research and accelerate molecular breeding of the subgenus Ceratotropis.
Plant vacuolar NHX exchangers play a significant role in adaption to salt stress by compartmentalizing excess cytosolic Na+ into vacuoles and maintaining cellular homeostasis and ionic equilibrium. We cloned an orthologue of the vacuolar Na+/H+ antiporter gene, VrNHX1 from mungbean (Vigna radiata), an important Asiatic grain legume. The VrNHX1 (Genbank Accession number JN656211.1) contains 2095 nucleotides with an open reading frame of 1629 nucleotides encoding a predicted protein of 542 amino acids with a deduced molecular mass of 59.6 kDa. The consensus amiloride binding motif (84LFFIYLLPPI93) was observed in the third putative transmembrane domain of VrNHX1. Bioinformatic and phylogenetic analysis clearly suggested that VrNHX1 had high similarity to those of orthologs belonging to Class-I clade of plant NHX exchangers in leguminous crops. VrNHX1 could be strongly induced by salt stress in mungbean as the expression in roots significantly increased in presence of 200 mM NaCl with concomitant accumulation of total [Na+]. Induction of VrNHX1 was also observed under cold and dehydration stress, indicating a possible cross talk between various abiotic stresses. Heterologous expression in salt sensitive yeast mutant AXT3 complemented for the loss of yeast vacuolar NHX1 under NaCl, KCl and LiCl stress indicating that VrNHX1 was the orthologue of ScNHX1. Further, AXT3 cells expressing VrNHX1 survived under low pH environment and displayed vacuolar alkalinization analyzed using pH sensitive fluorescent dye BCECF-AM. The constitutive and stress inducible expression of VrNHX1 resulted in enhanced salt tolerance in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana lines. Our work suggested that VrNHX1 was a salt tolerance determinant in mungbean.
The researches on D-hydantoinase activity and substrate specificity towards dihydropyrimidine and hydantoin derivatives have been carried out intensively over the last few decades. So far, the major efforts have focused on (R,S)-5-phenylhydantoin and (R,S)-5-(4-hydroxyphenyl)hydantoin, the most desirable D-hydantoinase substrates from pharmaceutical industry point of view. However, it was shown that D-hydantoinase is a substrate-dependent enzyme, and its activity and stereoselectivity towards 5-monosubstituted hydantoins varied significantly with the type of substrate and the source of the enzyme. The aim of this study was to estimate the substrate specificity of D-hydantoinase towards series of 5-benzylhydantoin derivatives with halogen and methyl substituents in the phenyl ring. The biotransformations were carried out by using commercial enzyme: immobilized, recombinant, cloned, and expressed in Escherichia coli D-hydantoinase from Vigna angularis (rD-HYD). All reactions were monitored by capillary electrophoresis (CE), and the conversion yields were calculated. Additionally, enantiomeric ratios of the obtained D-phenylalanine derivatives were estimated by chiral high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Interestingly, the differences in the activities of examined enzyme towards particular 5-benzylhydantoin derivatives were observed. CE was also shown as a promising method for monitoring the hydrolysis of new substrates by D-hydantoinase and further analyzing of enzyme substrate specificity.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important grain legume cultivated in drought-prone parts of the world, having higher tolerance to heat and drought than many other crops. The transcription factor, Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding protein 2A (DREB2A), controls expression of many genes involved in osmotic and heat stress responses of plants. In Arabidopsis, DREB2A-interacting proteins (DRIPs), which function as E3 ubiquitin ligases (EC 6.3.2.19), regulate the stability of DREB2A by targeting it for proteasome-mediated degradation. In this study, we cloned the cowpea ortholog of DRIP (VuDRIP) using PCR based methods. The 1614 bp long VuDRIP mRNA encoded a protein of 433 amino acids having a C3HC4-type Really Interesting New Gene (RING) domain in the N-terminus and a C-terminal conserved region, similar to Arabidopsis DRIP1 and DRIP2. We found VuDRIP up-regulation in response to various abiotic stresses and phytohormones. Using yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisae) two-hybrid analysis, VuDRIP was identified as a VuDREB2A-interacting protein. The results indicate negative regulation of VuDREB2A by ubiquitin ligases in cowpea similar to Arabidopsis along with their other unknown roles in stress and hormone signaling pathways.
A Vigna nakashimae (VN) extract has been shown to have antidiabetic and anti-obesity effects. However, the mechanism underlying the effect of a VN extract on hepatic inflammation and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated how a VN extract protects against the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). A VN extract for 12 weeks reduced the body weight, serum metabolic parameters, cytokines, and hepatic steatosis in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice. A VN extract decreased HFD-induced hepatic acetyl CoA carboxylase and glucose transporter 4 expressions. In addition to the levels of high-mobility group box 1 and receptor for advanced glycation, the hepatic expression of ATF4 and caspase-3 was also reduced by a VN extract. Thus, these data indicate that a chronic VN extract prevented NAFLD through multiple mechanisms, including inflammation, ER stress, and apoptosis in the liver.
VuDREB2A exists in cowpea as a canonical DREB2-type transcription factor, having the ability to bind dehydration-responsive elements in vitro and confer enhanced drought resistance in transgenic Arabidopsis. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important cultivated legume that can survive better in arid conditions than other crops. But the molecular mechanisms involved in the drought tolerance of this species remain elusive with very few reported candidate genes. The Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding Protein2 (DREB2) group of transcription factors plays key roles in plant responses to drought. However, no DREB2 ortholog has been reported from cowpea so far. In this study, we isolated and characterized a gene from cowpea, namely VuDREB2A, encoding a protein of 377 amino acids exhibiting features of reported DREB2-type proteins. In cowpea, VuDREB2A transcript accumulation was highly induced by desiccation, heat and salt, but slightly by exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. We also isolated the VuDREB2A promoter and predicted stress-responsive cis-elements in it using Arabidopsis microarray data. The E. coli-expressed VuDREB2A protein showed binding to synthetic oligonucleotides with Dehydration-Responsive Elements (DREs) from Arabidopsis, in electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Heterologous expression of VuDREB2A in Arabidopsis significantly improved plant survival under drought. In addition, overexpression of a truncated version of VuDREB2A, after removal of a putative negative regulatory domain (between amino acids 132-182) led to a dwarf phenotype in the transgenic plants. Microarray and quantitative PCR analyses of VuDREB2A overexpressing Arabidopsis revealed up-regulation of stress-responsive genes having DRE overrepresented in their promoters. In summary, our results indicate that VuDREB2A conserves the basic functionality and mode of regulation of DREB2A in Arabidopsis and could be a potent candidate gene for the genetic improvement of drought resistance in cowpea.
Moth bean (Vigna aconitifolia (Jacq.) Marechal), an important grain-legume crop grown in hot desert regions of Thar, under scorching sun rays, was investigated for heat tolerance at molecular level. In the present study, we constructed a forward suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) cDNA library of heat tolerant genotype RMO-40 to identify genes expressing under delayed response to elevated temperature. Heat induction was carried out by exposing 14-day-old seedlings to elevated temperature of 42 °C for 30 min. A total of 125 unigenes (33 contigs and 92 singletons) were derived by cluster assembly and sequence alignment of 200 ESTs; out of 125 unigenes, 21 (16 %) were found to be novel to moth bean. Gene ontology functional classification terms were retrieved for 98 (78.4 %) unigenes of which 73 (58.4 %) ESTs were functionally annotated (GO consensus) where 19 unigenes were annotated with 11 enzyme commission (EC) codes and were mapped to 25 different KEGG pathways. We have identified a majority of heat-shock proteins (constituting 35 % of the present library) aiding heat stress tolerance to moth bean. An expression level of 22 ESTs generated from the above SSH cDNA library was studied through semiquantitative RT-PCR assay simultaneously under 5 and 30 min of heat stress at 42 °C.
This paper presents the first study describing the isolation, cloning and characterization of a full length gene encoding Bowman-Birk protease inhibitor (RbTI) from rice bean (Vigna umbellata). A full-length protease inhibitor gene with complete open reading frame of 327 bp encoding 109 amino acids was cloned from rice bean seeds using degenerate primer set. BlastP search revealed that the RbTI encoded amino acid of approx 13.0 kDa and shared 99% homology each with BBI from Phaseolus parvulus, Vigna trilobata and Vigna vexilata. Phylogenetic tree also showed close relationship of RbTI with BBI from other members of Leguminaceae family. RbTI gene was further confirmed as intronless (GenBank accession no. KJ159908). The secondary and 3D-structural models for the RbTI were predicted with homology modeling. qRT-PCR studies revealed the highest RbTI expression in the seeds nearing maturity, whereas the low expression of the gene was noticed in young leaves. The isolated RbTI was successfully expressed in Escherichiacoli and the highest expression was recorded after 5.5h of induction. Study on the inhibitory activity of expressed protein against the gut proteases of Hessian fly larvae revealed 87% inhibition. The novel RbTI gene will further broaden the pool of plant defense genes and could be an ideal choice for developing transgenic crops resistant to insect pests with high economic value. In addition, it has the potential to be used as a probe for selection of insect- and pathogen-resistant genotypes.
Cowpea cultivars differing in salt tolerance reveal differences in protein profiles and adopt different strategies to overcome salt stress. Salt-tolerant cultivar shows induction of proteins related to photosynthesis and energy metabolism. Salinity is a major abiotic stress affecting plant cultivation and productivity. The objective of this study was to examine differential proteomic responses to salt stress in leaves of the cowpea cultivars Pitiúba (salt tolerant) and TVu 2331 (salt sensitive). Plants of both cultivars were subjected to salt stress (75 mM NaCl) followed by a recovery period of 5 days. Proteins extracted from leaves of both cultivars were analyzed by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) under salt stress and after recovery. In total, 22 proteins differentially regulated by both salt and recovery were identified by LC-ESI-MS/MS. Our current proteome data revealed that cowpea cultivars adopted different strategies to overcome salt stress. For the salt-tolerant cultivar (Pitiúba), increase in abundance of proteins involved in photosynthesis and energy metabolism, such as rubisco activase, ribulose-5-phosphate kinase (Ru5PK) (EC 2.7.1.19), glycine decarboxylase (EC 1.4.4.2) and oxygen-evolving enhancer (OEE) protein 2, was observed. However, these vital metabolic processes were more profoundly affected in salt-sensitive cultivar (TVu), as indicated by the down-regulation of OEE protein 1, Mn-stabilizing protein-II, carbonic anhydrase (EC 4.2.1.1) and Rubisco (EC 4.1.1.39), leading to energy reduction and a decline in plant growth. Other proteins differentially regulated in both cultivars corresponded to different physiological responses. Overall, our results provide information that could lead to a better understanding of the molecular basis of salt tolerance and sensitivity in cowpea plants.
Vigna radiata (mung bean) is an important crop plant and is a major protein source in developing countries. Mung bean 8S globulins constitute nearly 90% of total seed storage protein and consist of three subunits designated as 8SGα, 8SGα' and 8SGβ. The 5'-flanking sequences of 8SGα' has been reported to confer high expression in transgenic Arabidopsis seeds. In this study, a 472-bp 5'-flanking sequence of 8SGα was identified by genome walking. Computational analysis subsequently revealed the presence of numerous putative seed-specific cis-elements within. The 8SGα promoter was then fused to the gene encoding β-glucuronidase (GUS) to create a reporter construct for Arabidopsis thaliana transformation. The spatial and temporal expression of 8SGα∷GUS, as investigated using GUS histochemical assays, showed GUS expression exclusively in transgenic Arabidopsis seeds. Quantitative GUS assays revealed that the 8SGα promoter showed 2- to 4-fold higher activity than the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. This study has identified a seed-specific promoter of high promoter strength, which is potentially useful for directing foreign protein expression in seed bioreactors.
Significant secretion of citrate from root apex of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) is delayed by several hours under aluminium (Al) stress. However, the molecular basis of regulation of VuMATE1, a gene encoding an Al-activated citrate transporter, remains unclear. In this study, we used suppression subtractive hybridization together with reverse northern blot analysis and qRT-PCR to identify genes with altered transcript levels in the root apex after treatment with low (5 μm) or high (25 μm) concentration of AlCl(3) for a short time (4 h). We found that in addition to VuMATE1, 393 genes showed an early response to Al. Among functionally annotated genes, those related to 'metabolism and energy', 'signal transduction and transcription' and 'transport' was predominantly up-regulated, whereas those associated with 'protein translation, processing and degradation' was predominantly down-regulated. Comparative analysis of transcriptional profiles highlighted candidate genes associated with citrate secretion and revealed several new aspects of the molecular processes underlying Al toxicity and tolerance. Based on the data, it is proposed that metabolic changes represent adaptive mechanisms to Al stress, whereas inhibition of both cell elongation and cell division underlies Al-induced root growth inhibition.
Sarcolipin (SLN) and phospholamban (PLN) inhibit the activity of sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPases (SERCAs) by reducing their apparent affinity for Ca(2+). A ternary complex between SLN, PLN, and SERCAs results in super-inhibition of SERCA activity. Analysis of skeletal muscle homogenate has limited our current understanding of whether SLN and PLN regulate SERCA1a, SERCA2a, or both in skeletal muscle and whether SLN and PLN are co-expressed in skeletal muscle fibers. Biopsies from human vastus lateralis were analyzed through single fiber Western blotting and immunohisto/fluorescence staining to circumvent this limitation. With a newly generated SLN antibody, we report for the first time that SLN protein is present in human skeletal muscle. Addition of the SLN antibody (50 µg) to vastus lateralis homogenates increased the apparent Ca(2+) affinity of SERCA (K Ca, pCa units) (-Ab, 5.85 ± 0.02 vs. +Ab, 5.95 ± 0.02) and maximal SERCA activity (μmol/g protein/min) (-Ab, 122 ± 6.4 vs. +Ab, 159 ± 11) demonstrating a functional interaction between SLN and SERCAs in human vastus lateralis. Specifically, our results suggest that although SLN and PLN may preferentially regulate SERCA1a, and SERCA2a, respectively, physiologically they both may regulate either SERCA isoform. Furthermore, we show that SLN and PLN co-immunoprecipitate in human vastus lateralis homogenate and are simultaneously expressed in 81% of the fibers analyzed with Western blotting which implies that super-inhibition of SERCA may exist in human skeletal muscle. Finally, we demonstrate unequivocally that mouse soleus contains PLN protein suggesting that super-inhibition of SERCA may also be important physiologically in rodent skeletal muscle.
Experimental studies have shown involvement of Wnt signalling in heart failure (HF). We hypothesized that secreted frizzled-related protein 3 (sFRP3), a modulator of Wnt signalling, is related to the progression of HF. Circulating sFRP3 was measured in 153 HF patients and compared with 25 healthy controls. The association of sFRP3 with mortality was evaluated in 1202 patients (GISSI-HF trial). sFRP3 mRNA expression was assessed in failing human and murine left ventricles (LV), and cellular localization was determined after fractioning of myocardial tissue. In vitro studies were carried out in cardiac fibroblasts subjected to cyclic mechanical stretch. (i) Heart failure patients had significantly raised serum sFRP3 levels compared with controls, (ii) during a median follow-up of 47 months, 315 patients died in the GISSI-HF substudy. In univariable Cox regression, tertiles of baseline sFRP3 concentration were significantly associated with all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. After adjustment for demographic and clinical variables, but not for CRP and NT-proBNP, the associations with mortality remained significant for the third tertile (all-cause, HR 1.45, P = 0.011; cardiovascular, HR 1.66, P = 0.003), (iii) sFRP3 mRNA expression was increased in failing human LV, with a decline following LV assist device therapy. LV from post-MI mice showed an increased sFRP3 mRNA level, particularly in cardiac fibroblasts, and (iv) mechanical stretch enhanced sFRP3 expression and release in myocardial fibroblasts. There is an association between increased sFRP3 expression and adverse outcome in HF, suggesting that the failing myocardium itself contributes to an increase in circulating sFRP3.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent a class of small non-coding RNA molecules that play a crucial role in post-transcriptional gene regulation. Several conserved and species-specific miRNAs have been characterized to date, predominantly from the plant species whose genome is well characterized. However, information on the variability of these regulatory RNAs in economically important but genetically less characterized crop species are limited. Vigna mungo is an important grain legume, which is grown primarily for its protein-rich edible seeds. miRNAs from this species have not been identified to date due to lack of genome sequence information. To identify miRNAs from V. mungo, a small RNA library was constructed from young leaves. High-throughput Illumina sequencing technology and bioinformatic analysis of the small RNA reads led to the identification of 66 miRNA loci represented by 45 conserved miRNAs belonging to 19 families and eight non-conserved miRNAs belonging to seven families. Besides, 13 novel miRNA candidates in V. mungo were also identified. Expression patterns of selected conserved, non-conserved, and novel miRNA candidates have been demonstrated in leaf, stem, and root tissues by quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and potential target genes were predicted for most of the conserved miRNAs. This information offers genomic resources for better understanding of miRNA mediated post-transcriptional gene regulation.
H⁺-translocating pyrophosphatase (H⁺-PPase, EC 3.6.1.1) plays an important role in acidifying vacuoles by transporting protons across membranes at the expense of pyrophosphate (PP(i)) hydrolysis. Vigna radiata H⁺-PPase (VrH⁺-PPase) contains 16 transmembrane helices (TMs). The hydrophobicity of TM3 is relatively lower than that of most other TMs, and the amino acids in this TM are highly conserved in plants. Furthermore, TM5 and -6, which are the core TMs involving in H⁺-PPase functions, are near TM3. It is thus proposed that TM3 is associated with H⁺-PPase activity. To address this possibility, site-directed mutagenesis was applied in this investigation to determine the role of TM3 in VrH⁺-PPase. Upon alanine/serine substitution, T138 and S142, whose side chains face toward the center TMs, were found to be involved in efficient proton transport. G149/S153 and G160/A164 pairs at the crucial termini of the two GxxxG-like motifs are indispensable in maintaining enzymatic activities and conformational stability. Moreover, stability in the vicinity surrounding G149 is pivotal for efficient expression. S153, M161 and A164 are critical for the K⁺-mediated stimulation of H⁺-PPase. Taken together, our results demonstrate that TM3 plays essential roles in PP(i) hydrolysis, proton transport, expression, and K⁺ stimulation of H⁺-PPase.
In this work we have characterised the Sinorhizobium fredii HH103 greA lpsB lpsCDE genetic region and analysed for the first time the symbiotic performance of Sinorhizobium fredii lps mutants on soybean. The organization of the S. fredii HH103 greA, lpsB, and lpsCDE genes was equal to that of Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021. S. fredii HH103 greA, lpsB, and lpsE mutant derivatives produced altered LPS profiles that were characteristic of the gene mutated. In addition, S. fredii HH103 greA mutants showed a reduction in bacterial mobility and an increase of auto-agglutination in liquid cultures. RT-PCR and qPCR experiments demonstrated that the HH103 greA gene has a positive effect on the transcription of lpsB. Soybean plants inoculated with HH103 greA, lpsB or lpsE mutants formed numerous ineffective pseudonodules and showed severe symptoms of nitrogen starvation. However, HH103 greA and lps mutants were also able to induce the formation of a reduced number of soybean nodules of normal external morphology, allowing the possibility of studying the importance of bacterial LPS in later stages of the S. fredii HH103-soybean symbiosis. The infected cells of these nodules showed signs of early termination of symbiosis and lytical clearance of bacteroids. These cells also had very thick walls and accumulation of phenolic-like compounds, pointing to induced defense reactions. Our results show the importance of bacterial LPS in later stages of the S. fredii HH103-soybean symbiosis and their role in preventing host cell defense reactions. S. fredii HH103 lpsB mutants also showed reduced nodulation with Vigna unguiculata, although the symbiotic impairment was less pronounced than in soybean.
The present study was conducted in order to assess whether extracts or isolated compounds from Vigna angularis were able to suppress IL-6 signalling and to show the therapeutic effect on collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice. The effect of V. angularis on IL-6 signalling was studied by measuring Stat3-dependent luciferase activity, expression of inflammation-related genes, and phosphorylation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) induced by IL-6. CIA was induced by immunizing with bovine type II collagen. V. angularis extract (VAE) was administrated orally at 50 and 100 mg/kg from day 1 to day 28. Induction of arthritis was evaluated with a visual scoring system and histological analysis. Extracts or two triterpenoid compounds from V. angularis showed potent inhibitory effects on pSTAT3-inducible luciferase activity, STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation and the expression of inflammation-related genes induced by IL-6. Administration of VAE significantly suppressed the progression of CIA, accompanied by a reduced antibody response to type II collagen and protection from tissue damage in knee joints. Administration of VAE has a therapeutic effect on CIA and this effect is associated with the inhibitory activity on IL-6/STAT3 signalling. These results suggest that extracts or compounds from V. angularis could be a useful treatment for diseases related to IL-6, including RA.
The present study investigates the interdependence of plant water status with foliar and root responses in Vigna radiata L.Wilczek under progressive drought. Vegetatively-mature V. radiata plants were subjected to water withdrawal for 3 and 6days (D3 and D6, respectively) and then re-watered subsequently for 6days (6R) for stress-recovery. Changes in plant water status were expressed in terms of leaf and root moisture contents (LMC and RMC, respectively) and leaf relative water content (LRWC). Progressive drought caused apparent decrease in LRWC, LMC and RMC depicting significant level of dehydration of leaf and root tissues. Stomatal limitation alone could not account for the observed decrease in net CO2 assimilation rates (Pn) due to comparatively less decrease in sub-stomatal CO2 (Ci) concentrations with respect to other gas exchange parameters indicating possible involvement of non-stomatal limitations. Analysis of polyphasic chl a fluorescence kinetics during progressive drought showed decreased energy connectivity among PSII units as defined by a positive L-band with highest amplitude during D6. Efficiency of electron flux from OEC towards PSII acceptor side was not significantly affected during drought conditions as evidenced by the absence of a positive K-band. Increasing root-level water-limitation enforced a gradual oxidative stress through H2O2 accumulation and membrane lipid peroxidation in V. radiata roots exhibiting drastic enhancement of proline content and a significant but gradual increase in ascorbic acid content as well as guaiacol peroxidase activity under progressive drought. Expression analysis of Δ(1) pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS) through real time PCR and enzyme activity studies showed a strong positive correlation between VrP5CS gene expression, enzyme activity and proline accumulation in the roots of V. radiata under progressive drought and recovery. Drought-induced changes in root moisture content (RMC) showed positive linear correlations with leaf water content, stomatal conductance as well as transpirational water loss dynamics and a significant negative correlation with the corresponding drought-induced expression patterns of ascorbate, guaiacol peroxidase and proline in roots of V. radiata. The study provides new insights into the plant water status-dependent interrelationship between photosynthetic performance and major root defense responses of V. radiata under progressive drought conditions.
To investigate the incidence and clinical relevance of classic and new prognostic markers, IGHV gene mutational status, and chromosomal abnormalities in clinical monoclonal B lymphocytosis (cMBL) compared with Rai stage 0 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (Rai0-CLL). A group of 136 patients with cMBL and a group of 216 Rai0-CLL cases were investigated prospectively. IGHV-mutated cases were significantly more frequent among cMBLs (P = 0.005), whereas the distribution of CD38 and ZAP-70 positive cases, of patients with NOTCH1 and SF3B1 mutations or exhibiting the major CLL cytogenetic abnormalities, was similar in the two groups. Moreover, no significant differences were found either in IGHV/IGHD/IGHJ gene usage or in the overall prevalence of stereotyped IGHV gene sequences. Cells from cMBL and Rai0-CLL exhibited similar gene and microRNA (miRNA) signatures; in addition, when grouped according to the IGHV mutational status, IGHV-unmutated cases showed different transcriptional signatures compared with IGHV-mutated patients, irrespective of the cMBL or Rai0-CLL classification. cMBL diagnosis per se was predictive of longer progression-free survival. Our study based on a prospective series of patients indicates that no major differences exist between the circulating cells from cMBL and Rai0-CLL, at least based on a comparison of the markers used in the study. This possibly suggests that the two conditions mainly differ in the initial size of the monoclonal cell population, which may influence the subsequent timing of clonal expansion and clinical manifestations.
Due to the key role played in critical sub-populations, Met is considered a relevant therapeutic target for glioblastoma multiforme and lung cancers. The anti-Met DN30 antibody, engineered to a monovalent Fab (Mv-DN30), proved to be a potent antagonist, inducing physical removal of Met receptor from the cell surface. In this study, we designed a gene therapy approach, challenging Mv-DN30 in preclinical models of Met-driven human glioblastoma and lung carcinoma. Mv-DN30 was delivered by a Tet-inducible-bidirectional lentiviral vector. Gene therapy solved the limitations dictated by the short half-life of the low molecular weight form of the antibody. In vitro, upon doxycycline induction, the transgene: (1) drove synthesis and secretion of the correctly assembled Mv-DN30; (2) triggered the displacement of Met receptor from the surface of target cancer cells; (3) suppressed the Met-mediated invasive growth phenotype. Induction of transgene expression in cancer cells-transplanted either subcutaneously or orthotopically in nude mice-resulted in inhibition of tumor growth. Direct Mv-DN30 gene transfer in nude mice, intra-tumor or systemic, was followed by a therapeutic response. These results provide proof of concept for a gene transfer immunotherapy strategy by a Fab fragment and encourage clinical studies targeting Met-driven cancers with Mv-DN30. Gene transfer allows the continuous in vivo production of therapeutic Fab fragments. Mv-DN30 is an excellent tool for the treatment of Met-driven cancers. Mv-DN30 gene therapy represents an innovative route for Met targeting.
The rhizobium-legume symbiosis is a model system for studying mutualistic interactions between bacteria and eukaryotes. Sinorhizobium sp. NGR234 is distinguished by its ability to form either indeterminate nodules or determinate nodules with diverse legumes. Here, we presented a high-resolution RNA-seq transcriptomic analysis of NGR234 bacteroids in indeterminate nodules of Leucaena leucocephala and determinate nodules of Vigna unguiculata. In contrast to exponentially growing free-living bacteria, non-growing bacteroids from both legumes recruited several common cellular functions such as cbb3 oxidase, thiamine biosynthesis, nitrate reduction pathway (NO-producing), succinate metabolism, PHB (poly-3-hydroxybutyrate) biosynthesis and phosphate/phosphonate transporters. However, different transcription profiles between bacteroids from two legumes were also uncovered for genes involved in the biosynthesis of exopolysaccharides, lipopolysaccharides, T3SS (type three secretion system) and effector proteins, cytochrome bd ubiquinol oxidase, PQQ (pyrroloquinoline quinone), cytochrome c550, pseudoazurin, biotin, phasins and glycolate oxidase, and in the metabolism of glutamate and phenylalanine. Noteworthy were the distinct expression patterns of genes encoding phasins, which are thought to be involved in regulating the surface/volume ratio of PHB granules. These patterns are in good agreement with the observed granule size difference between bacteroids from L. leucocephala and V. unguiculata.
In flowering plants, alternative oxidase (Aox) is encoded by 3-5 genes distributed in 2 subfamilies (Aox1 and Aox2). In several species only Aox1 is reported as a stress-responsive gene, but in the leguminous Vigna unguiculata Aox2b is also induced by stress. In this work we investigated the Aox genes from two leguminous species of the Medicago genus (Medicago sativa and Medicago truncatula) which present one Aox1, one Aox2a and an Aox2b duplication (named here Aox2b1 and Aox2b2). Expression analyses by semi-quantitative RT-PCR in M. sativa revealed that Aox1, Aox2b1 and Aox2b2 transcripts increased during seed germination. Similar analyses in leaves and roots under different treatments (SA, PEG, H2O2 and cysteine) revealed that these genes are also induced by stress, but with peculiar spatio-temporal differences. Aox1 and Aox2b1 showed basal levels of expression under control conditions and were induced by stress in leaves and roots. Aox2b2 presented a dual behavior, i.e., it was expressed only under stress conditions in leaves, and showed basal expression levels in roots that were induced by stress. Moreover, Aox2a was expressed at higher levels in leaves and during seed germination than in roots and appeared to be not responsive to stress. The Aox expression profiles obtained from a M. truncatula microarray dataset also revealed a stress-induced co-expression of Aox1, Aox2b1 and Aox2b2 in leaves and roots. These results reinforce the stress-inducible co-expression of Aox1/Aox2b in some leguminous plants. Comparative genomic analysis indicates that this regulation is linked to Aox1/Aox2b proximity in the genome as a result of the gene rearrangement that occurred in some leguminous plants during evolution. The differential expression of Aox2b1/2b2 suggests that a second gene has been originated by recent gene duplication with neofunctionalization.
Expression of ACT, EF1A; H2A, EF1A, ACT and 18S, TUB showed stability under MYMIV, salinity and drought stress, respectively; these are recommended as reference genes for qPCR normalization in Vigna mungo. Accurate gene expression profiling through qPCR depends on selection of appropriate reference gene(s) for normalization. Due to lack of unanimous internal standard, suitable constitutively expressed reference genes are selected that exhibit stable expression under diverse experimental conditions. In this communication, a comparative evaluation of stability among seven V. mungo genes encoding actin (ACT), histone H2A (H2A), elongation factor 1-alpha (EF1A), 18S rRNA (18S), glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), cyclophilin (CYP) and tubulin (TUB) under biotic (MYMIV) and abiotic (drought and salinity) stress conditions has been attempted. Specificity and amplification efficiency for each primer pair were verified; however, cumulative assessment of their accumulated transcripts revealed no uniformity. Therefore, individual stability and suitability of these seven candidates have been assessed in silico, by two widely used algorithms, geNorm and Normfinder. Based on the computed results, high stability was obtained for ACT and EF1A during MYMIV stress, while H2A, EFIA and ACT were found to be most suitable in salinity stress experiments and TUB and 18S during drought treatments. Combinations of ACT/TUB or ACT/EFIA were recommended for their use in the pooled analysis, while expression of 18S and CYP showed greater variations and therefore considered unsuitable as reference genes. Additionally, precise quantification of the target gene VmPRX under these stresses was shown to be a function of reference genes' stability, which tends to get affected when normalized with the least stable genes. Hence, use of these normalizers will facilitate accurate and reliable analyses of gene expression in V. mungo.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) is a satiety hormone produced by discrete enteroendocrine cells scattered among absorptive cells of the small intestine. CCK is released into blood following a meal; however, the mechanisms inducing hormone secretion are largely unknown. Ingested fat is the major stimulant of CCK secretion. We recently identified a novel member of the lipoprotein remnant receptor family known as immunoglobulin-like domain containing receptor 1 (ILDR1) in intestinal CCK cells and postulated that this receptor conveyed the signal for fat-stimulated CCK secretion. In the intestine, ILDR1 is expressed exclusively in CCK cells. Orogastric administration of fatty acids elevated blood levels of CCK in wild-type mice but not Ildr1-deficient mice, although the CCK secretory response to trypsin inhibitor was retained. The uptake of fluorescently labeled lipoproteins in ILDR1-transfected CHO cells and release of CCK from isolated intestinal cells required a unique combination of fatty acid plus HDL. CCK secretion secondary to ILDR1 activation was associated with increased [Ca2+]i, consistent with regulated hormone release. These findings demonstrate that ILDR1 regulates CCK release through a mechanism dependent on fatty acids and lipoproteins and that absorbed fatty acids regulate gastrointestinal hormone secretion.
The aim of the present study was to elucidate whether extracts of Vigna angularis (EVA) inhibit allergic inflammatory reactions and to elucidate the possible mechanisms of action. For the assessment of allergic inflammatory response, histamine release and the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines from human mast cells (HMC-1) were examined. To identify the underlying mechanisms of action, intracellular calcium and the activation of nuclear factor (NF)-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) were assayed. To confirm the effects of EVA in vivo, systemic and local allergic reaction mouse models were employed. EVA dose-dependently reduced phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and calcium ionophore A23187 (PMACI)-induced histamine release from mast cells. The inhibitory effects of EVA on the release of histamine from mast cells were mediated by the reduction of intracellular calcium levels. EVA decreased the PMACI-stimulated gene expression and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interleukin (IL)-6. The inhibitory effects of EVA on pro-inflammatory cytokines were NF-κB- and MAPK-dependent. In addition, EVA inhibited compound 48/80-induced systemic anaphylaxis and immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated cutaneous anaphylaxis. Our findings provide evidence that EVA inhibits mast cell-derived allergic inflammation, and suggest the possible therapeutic application of EVA in allergic inflammatory disorders.
The ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 (UBC E2) mediates selective ubiquitination, acting with E1 and E3 enzymes to designate specific proteins for subsequent degradation. In the present study, we characterized the function of the mung bean VrUBC1 gene (Vigna radiata UBC 1). RNA gel-blot analysis showed that VrUBC1 mRNA expression was induced by either dehydration, high salinity or by the exogenous abscisic acid (ABA), but not by low temperature or wounding. Biochemical studies of VrUBC1 recombinant protein and complementation of yeast ubc4/5 by VrUBC1 revealed that VrUBC1 encodes a functional UBC E2. To understand the function of this gene in development and plant responses to osmotic stresses, we overexpressed VrUBC1 in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The VrUBC1-overexpressing plants displayed highly sensitive responses to ABA and osmotic stress during germination, enhanced ABA- or salt-induced stomatal closing, and increased drought stress tolerance. The expression levels of a number of key ABA signaling genes were increased in VrUBC1-overexpressing plants compared to the wild-type plants. Yeast two-hybrid and bimolecular fluorescence complementation demonstrated that VrUBC1 interacts with AtVBP1 (A. thalianaVrUBC1 Binding Partner 1), a C3HC4-type RING E3 ligase. Overall, these results demonstrate that VrUBC1 plays a positive role in osmotic stress tolerance through transcriptional regulation of ABA-related genes and possibly through interaction with a novel RING E3 ligase.
Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), which are differentiated from other antibiotic peptides, such as gramicidins and polymyxins, because they are synthesized by large enzymatic complex and bear modified amino acids including d-amino acids, are short polymers of l-amino acids synthesized by ribosomes upon which all living organisms rely to defend themselves from invaders or competitor microorganisms. AMPs have received a great deal of attention from the scientific community as potential new drugs for neglected diseases such as Leishmaniasis. In plants, they include several families of compounds, including the plant defensins. The aim of the present study was to improve the expression of recombinant defensin from Vigna unguiculata seeds (Vu-Defr) and to test its activity against Leishmania amazonensis promatigotes. Recombinant expression was performed in LB and TB media and under different conditions. The purification of Vu-Defr was achieved by immobilized metal ion affinity and reversed-phase chromatography. The purified Vu-Defr was analyzed by circular dichroism (CD), and its biological activity was tested against L. amazonenis promastigotes. To demonstrate that the recombinant production of Vu-Defr did not interfere with its fold and biological activity, the results of all experiments were compared with the results from the natural defensin (Vu-Def). The CD spectra of both peptides presented good superimposition indicating that both peptides present very similar secondary structure and that the Vu-Defr was correctly folded. L. amazonensis treated with Vu-Defr led to the elimination of 54.3% and 46.9% of the parasites at 24 and 48h of incubation time, respectively. Vu-Def eliminated 50% and 54.8% of the parasites at 24 and 48 h, respectively. Both were used at a concentration of 100 μg/mL. These results suggested the potential for plant defensins to be used as new antiparasitic substances.
Plants are proven effective bioreactors for the production of heterologous proteins including those desired by the biopharmaceutical industry. However, the potential of plants as bioreactors is limited by the availability of characterized plant promoters that can drive target gene expression in relatively distant plant species. Seeds are ideal for protein storage because seed proteins can be kept stably for several months. Hence, a strong promoter that can direct the expression and accumulation of target proteins within seeds represents a powerful tool in plant biotechnology. Toward this end, an effort was made to identify such a promoter from Vigna radiata (mung bean) to drive expression in dicot seeds. A 784-bp 5'-flanking sequence of the gene encoding the 8S globulin α' subunit (8SGα') of the V. radiata seed storage protein was isolated by genome walking. When the 5'-flanking region was analyzed with bioinformatics tools, numerous putative cis-elements were identified. The Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) regulated by this promoter was observed to be transiently expressed in protoplasts derived from V. radiata cotyledons. Finally, transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene driven from the 8S globulin α' promoter showed strong GUS expression in transgenic embryos in both histochemical and quantitative GUS assays, confirming high expression within seeds. Therefore, the V. radiata 8S α' promoter has shown potential in directing expression in seeds for bioreactor applications.
Proteomic analysis of developing mungbean (Vigna radiata L.) seeds has not yet been investigated in detail. Fifty-seven proteins were separated by 2-DE, identified by nanoelectrospray mass spectrometry from the present protein databases, and categorized according to their functions. Many of the identified enzymes were involved in central carbon metabolism; thus, a pathway illustrating starch synthesis/breakdown, sugar conversion for glycolysis, and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle was proposed. Quantitative comparison of the protein expression revealed that during developmental process (11-21 days after flowering, DAF), proteins involved in glycolysis, TCA cycle, and alcoholic fermentation showed a trend to be down-regulated, whereas storage proteins were generally up-regulated. The downward tendency of central carbon metabolic proteins suggests a reduction in ATP and oxygen consumption associated with accumulation of storage compounds. UDP-glucose-1-pyrophosphorylase, an upstream enzyme in the starch ADP-Glc pathway, was found as a stably expressed protein throughout the growth stage, demonstrating its importance in mungbean starch biosynthesis. The temporal expression of metabolic enzymes suggests the coordination of an acclimation mechanism and cellular processes associated with accumulation of storage compounds in seed development.
Vigna unguiculata (VU) leaves are edible and used as a leafy vegetable in cuisine from traditional times in India. This study was designed to investigate the cardioprotective effect of VU in cholesterol fed rabbits. The animals were randomly divided into 4 groups of 6 animals each and the experimental period was 3 months. Group I-ND [normal diet 40 g feed], Group II-ND + FVU [flavanoid fraction of Vigna unguiculata (150 mg kg (-1) per body weight)], Group III-ND + CH [cholesterol (400 mg)] and Group IV-ND + CH (400 mg) +FVU (150 mg kg(-1) per body weight). After the experimental period, animals were sacrificed and the various parameters, such as cardiac markers, toxicity parameters, genotoxicity and gene expression, were investigated. Cholesterol feeding causes a significant increase in the levels of cardiac marker enzymes, namely lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine phospokinase (CPK), atherogenic index, toxicity parameters like serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (SGOT) and serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase (SGPT) were elevated. Antioxidant enzyme levels were decreased, lipid peroxidation products in heart tissue and inflammatory markers, namely cyclooxygenase (COX2) and lipooxygenase (LOX15) in peripheral blood monocytes (PBMCs), were significantly increased. A genotoxicity study using a Comet assay and gene expression by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) of transforming growth factor-b1 (TGF-b1) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) from heart tissue showed an altered expression in the disease group. The supplementation of the flavonoid fraction of Vigna unguiculata leaves (FVU) in the CH + FVU group caused the reversal of the above parameters and cardiotoxicity to near normal when compared with the CH group and FVU. This study revealed the cardioprotective nature of Vigna unguiculata in preventing cardiovascular diseases and this effect is attributed to the presence of antioxidants and the antihyperlipidemic properties of the flavonoid fraction of Vigna unguiculata leaves.
Two native epoxide hydrolases (EHs) were previously discovered from mung bean powder (Vigna radiata), both of which can catalyze the enantioconvergent hydrolysis of p-nitrostyrene oxide (pNSO). In this study, the encoding gene of VrEH1 was successfully cloned from the cDNA of V. radiata by RT-PCR and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) technologies. High homologies were found to two putative EHs originated from Glycine max (80%) and Medicago truncatula (79%). The vreh1 gene constructed in pET28a(+) vector was then heterologously overexpressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3), and the encoded protein was purified to homogeneity by nickel affinity chromatography. It was shown that VrEH1 has an optimum activity at 45 °C and is very thermostable with an inactivation energy of 468 kJ mol(-1). The enzyme has no apparent requirement of metal ions for activity, and its activity was strongly inhibited by 1 mM of Ni(2+), Cu(2+), Fe(2+), or Co(2+). By adding 0.1% Triton X-100, the enzyme activity could be significantly increased up to 340%. VrEH1 shows an unusual ability of enantioconvergent catalysis for the hydrolysis of racemic pNSO, affording (R)-p-nitrophenyl glycol (pNPG). It displays opposite regioselectivity toward (S)-pNSO (83% to Cα) in contrast to (R)-pNSO (87% to Cβ). The K M and k cat of VrEH1 were determined to be 1.4 mM and 0.42 s(-1) for (R)-pNSO and 5.5 mM and 6.2 s(-1) for (S)-pNSO. This thermostable recombinant VrEH1 with enantioconvergency is considered to be a promising biocatalyst for the highly productive preparation of enantiopure vicinal diols and also a good model for understanding the mechanism of EH stereoselectivity.
Total body computed tomography (TB-CT) scan is not mandatory in the diagnostic/staging algorithm of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The aim of this study was to determine the value and prognostic significance of TB-CT scan in early stage CLL patients. Baseline TB-CT scan was performed in 240 Binet stage A CLL patients (179 Rai low- and 61 Rai intermediate-risk) included in a prospective multicenter observational study (clinicaltrial.gov ID:NCT00917549). The cohort included 69 clinical monoclonal B lymphocytosis (cMBLs). Patients were restaged considering only radiological data. Following TB-CT scans, 20% of cases reclassified as radiologic Binet (r-Binet) stage B. r-Binet B patients showed a higher incidence of unfavorable cytogenetic abnormalities (P = 0.027), as well as a shorter PFS (P = 0.001). At multivariate analysis, r-Binet stage [HR = 2.48; P = 0.004] and IGHV mutational status [HR = 3.01; P = 0.002] retained an independent predictive value for PFS. Among 179 Rai low-risk cases, 100 were redefined as r-Rai intermediate-risk based upon TB-CT scan data, showing a higher rate of cases with higher ZAP-70 (P = 0.033) and CD38 expression (P = 0.029) and β2-microglobulin levels (P < 0.0001), as well as a shorter PFS than those with r-Rai low-risk (P = 0.008). r-Rai stage [HR = 2.78; P = 0.046] and IGHV mutational status [HR = 4.25; P = 0.009] retained a significant predictive value for PFS at multivariate analysis. Forty-two percent of cMBL patients were reclassified as r-small lymphocytic lymphomas (r-SLLs) by TB-CT scan. TB-CT scan appears to provide relevant information in early stage CLL related to the potential and the timing of patients to progress towards the more advanced disease stages.
Cardiovascular diseases, especially atherosclerosis, have found to be the dreadful diseases worldwide and therapeutic interventions using plant sources have wide therapeutic value. Vigna unguiculata (VU) leaves have been used as food and therapeutics. Hence, our study was designed to evaluate the hypolipidemic as well as anti-atherogenic potential of VU leaves in normalizing atherogenic gene expression, cholesterol profile, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and antioxidant enzyme system on cholesterol fed rabbit model. For the study New Zealand white rabbits were randomly divided into four groups of six animals each and experimental period was three months; group -i - ND [normal diet (40 g feed)], group-ii- ND (normal diet) +EAVU [ethyl acetate fraction of Vigna unguiculata (150 mg/kg body weight)], group -iii- ND [normal diet ]+ CFD [cholesterol fed diet (cholesterol 1 % of 40 g feed and cholic acid 0.5 % of 40 g feed)] and group-iv - ND [normal diet] +CFD [cholesterol fed diet ]+EAVU [ethyl acetate fraction of Vigna unguiculata (150 mg/kg body weight)]. Atherosclerosis was induced by feeding the rabbit with cholesterol (1 % of 40 g feed) and cholic acid (0.5 % of 40 g feed). Supplementation of EAVU normalized cholesterol profile, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation products like thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS), antioxidant system and important genes of cardiovascular diseases like interleukin-10 (IL 10), paraoxanase-1 (PON I), interleukin-6 (IL 6), and cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox 2) to near normal level as compared with normal diet. The result obtained showed the antioxidant as well as anti-atherogenic potential of Vigna unguiculata leaves in ameliorating cholesterol induced atherosclerosis, and thus it is good task to include VU leaves in daily diet for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases especially atherosclerosis.
A reproducible and highly efficient protocol for genetic transformation mediated by Agrobacterium has been established for greengram (Vigna radiata L. Wilczek). Double cotyledonary node (DCN) explants were inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA 4404 harboring a binary vector pCAMBIA 2301 containing neomycin phosphotransferase (npt II) gene as selectable marker, β-glucuronidase (GUS) as a reporter (uidA) gene and annexin 1 bj gene. Important parameters like optical density of Agrobacterium culture, culture quantity, infection medium, infection and co-cultivation time and acetosyringone concentration were standardized to optimize the transformation frequency. Kanamycin at a concentration of 100 mg/l was used to select transformed cells. Transient and stable GUS expressions were studied in transformed explants and regenerated putative plants, respectively. Transformed shoot were produced on regeneration medium containing 100 mg/l kanamycin and 250 mg/l cefotaxime and rooted on ½ MS medium. Transient and constitutive GUS expression was observed in DCN explants and different tissues of T(0) and T(1) plants. Rooted T(0) and T(1) shoots confirming Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) positive for npt II and annexin 1bj genes were taken to maturity to collect the seeds. Integration of annexin gene into the greengram genome was confirmed by Southern blotting.
Aluminium (Al)-activated citrate secretion plays an important role in Al resistance in a number of plant species, such as rice bean (Vigna umbellata). This study further characterized the regulation of VuMATE1, an aluminium-activated citrate transporter. Al stress induced VuMATE1 expression, followed by the secretion of citrate. Citrate secretion was specific to Al stress, whereas VuMATE1 expression was not, which could be explained by a combined regulation of VuMATE1 expression and Al-specific activation of VuMATE1 protein. Pre-treatment with a protein translation inhibitor suppressed VuMATE1 expression, indicating that de novo biosynthesis of proteins is required for gene expression. Furthermore, post-treatment with a protein translation inhibitor inhibited citrate secretion, indicating that post-transcriptional regulation of VuMATE1 is critical for citrate secretion. Protein kinase and phosphatase inhibitor studies showed that reversible phosphorylation was important not only for transcriptional regulation of VuMATE1 expression but also for post-translational regulation of VuMATE1 protein activity. These results suggest that citrate secretion is dependent on both transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of VuMATE1. Additionally, VuMATE1 promoter-β-glucuronidase fusion lines revealed that VuMATE1 expression was restricted to the root apex and was entirely Al induced, indicating the presence of cis-acting elements regulating root tip-specific and Al-inducible gene expression, which will be an important resource for genetic improvement of plant Al resistance.
In this study, we evaluated the antiobesity effects of Vigna nakashimae (VN) extract and elucidated the underlying mechanisms. VN extract suppressed adipocyte differentiation and significantly attenuated the expression of adipogenic genes in 3T3-L1 cells. It decreased the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) and its target genes in fully differentiated 3T3-L1 cells. Moreover, it enhanced the phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and acetyl CoA carboxylase (ACC), and increased the expression of fatty acid oxidation genes. In high-fat diet (HFD) fed mice, VN extract suppressed HFD-induced increases in body weight, epididymal fat tissue weight, and hepatic lipid levels, and decreased the plasma levels of triacylglycerols, fatty acid, total cholesterol, and inflammatory cytokines. Consistently with in vitro study results, VN extract prevented HFD-induced increases in the expression of PPARγ and its target genes, and restored the decrease in the phosphorylation of AMPK and ACC in epididymal fat and liver tissues. These findings suggest that Vigna nakashimae prevents obesity through suppression of PPARγ expression and activation of AMPK, and that it might be a useful dietary supplement for the prevention of obesity.
This study investigated the subcellular location of mung bean (Vigna radiata) 8S globulin in transient expression systems as well as in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells and different tissues from a transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) line stably expressing this storage globulin. When transiently expressed in protoplasts from both BY-2 cells and Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells, the 8S globulin located to structures that were neither Golgi nor pre-vacuolar compartments (PVCs). Immunogold electron microscopy of the transgenics reveals the 8S globulin-positive structures to be small, spherical, ribosome-covered endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-derived bodies. In BY-2 cells and all vegetative cells, the 8S globulin was present as a pro-form. However, in Arabidopsis embryos, with the onset of endogenous storage protein synthesis, the 8S globulin exited the ER and passed through the PVC to the protein storage vacuole where it was processed to its smaller mature form. These results clearly demonstrated that, when taken out of context and expressed in vegetative cells, the mung bean 8S storage globulin cannot exit the ER, and indicate that natural targeting of storage proteins to the vacuole should be better studied in the maturing seed.
Moth bean ( Vigna aconitifolia (Jacq.) Marechal) is an important grain legume crop grown in rain fed areas of hot desert regions of Thar, India, under scorching sun rays with very little supplementation of water. An SSH cDNA library was generated from leaf tissues of V. aconitifolia var. RMO-40 exposed to an elevated temperature of 42 °C for 5 min to identify early-induced genes. A total of 488 unigenes (114 contigs and 374 singletons) were derived by cluster assembly and sequence alignment of 738 ESTs; out of 206 ESTs (28%) of unknown proteins, 160 ESTs (14%) were found to be novel to moth bean. Only 578 ESTs (78%) showed significant BLASTX similarity (<1 × 10(-6)) in the NCBI non-redundant database. Gene ontology functional classification terms were retrieved for 479 (65%) sequences, and 339 sequences were annotated with 165 EC codes and mapped to 68 different KEGG pathways. Four hundred and fifty-two ESTs were further annotated with InterProScan (IPS), and no IPS was assigned to 153 ESTs. In addition, the expression level of 27 ESTs in response to heat stress was evaluated through semiquantitative RT-PCR assay. Approximately 20 different signaling genes and 16 different transcription factors have been shown to be associated with heat stress in moth bean for the first time.
Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata L. Walp., is one of the most important food and forage legumes in the semi-arid tropics. While most domesticated forms of cowpea are susceptible to the root parasitic weed Striga gesnerioides, several cultivars have been identified that show race-specific resistance. Cowpea cultivar B301 contains the RSG3-301 gene for resistance to S. gesnerioides race SG3, but is susceptible to race SG4z. When challenged by SG3, roots of cultivar B301 develop a strong resistance response characterized by a hypersensitive reaction and cell death at the site of parasite attachment. In contrast, no visible response occurs in B301 roots parasitized by SG4z. Gene expression in the roots of the cowpea cultivar B301 during compatible (susceptible) and incompatible (resistant) interactions with S. gesnerioides races SG4z and SG3, respectively, were investigated at the early (6 days post-inoculation (dpi)) and late (13 dpi) stages of the resistance response using a Nimblegen custom design cowpea microarray. A total of 111 genes were differentially expressed in B301 roots at 6 dpi; this number increased to 2102 genes at 13 dpi. At 13 dpi, a total of 1944 genes were differentially expressed during compatible (susceptible) interactions of B301 with SG4z. Genes and pathways involved in signal transduction, programmed cell death and apoptosis, and defense response to biotic and abiotic stress were differentially expressed in the early resistance response; at the later time point, enrichment was primarily for defense-related gene expression, and genes encoding components of lignifications and secondary wall formation. In compatible interactions (B301-SG4z), multiple defense pathways were repressed, including those involved in lignin biosynthesis and secondary cell wall modifications, while cellular transport processes for nitrogen and sulfur were increased. Distinct changes in global gene expression profiles occur in host roots following successful and unsuccessful attempted parasitism by Striga. Induction of specific defense related genes and pathways defines components of a unique resistance mechanism. Some genes and pathways up-regulated in the host resistance response to SG3 are repressed in the susceptible interactions, suggesting that the parasite is targeting specific components of the host's defense. These results add to our understanding of plant-parasite interactions and the evolution of resistance to parasitic weeds.
Generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in plants is an inevitable consequence of adverse environmental cues and the ability to detoxify deleterious by-products of ROS-mediated oxidation reactions reflect an important defence strategy to combat abiotic stress. Here, we have cloned the eutypine reducing aldehyde reductase gene (VrALR) from Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek roots. We have expressed and purified the VrALR protein and analyzed its enzyme kinetic parameters and catalytic efficiency with three different substrates to confirm its identity. The functional characterization of this enzyme was unravelled through heterologous expression of the gene in Escherichia coli BL21 and an oxidative stress-sensitive Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant strain, W3O3-1-A. Finally, the endogenous VrALR enzyme activity and the mRNA expression patterns of the VrALR gene in the roots of V. radiata in response to progressive drought stress in vivo was studied to correlate the ROS-detoxifying role of this important enzyme under the influence of progressive drought stress. Our results, for the first time, demonstrate that eutypine reducing VrALR provides varying degree of stress tolerance in bacteria, yeast systems and also plays a promising protective role against oxidative stress in V. radiata roots during gradual water deprivation. The present study provides an unequivocal evidence to understand the crucial role of aldehyde reductase ROS-detoxifying system which is highly essential for developing stress tolerance in economically important crop plants.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) is an important grain and forage legume grown throughout sub-Saharan Africa primarily by subsistence farmers on poor, drought prone soils. Genetic improvement of the crop is being actively pursued and numerous functional genomics studies are underway aimed at characterizing gene controlling key agronomic characteristics for disease and pest resistances. Unfortunately, similar to other legumes, efficient plant transformation technology is a rate-limiting step in analysis of gene function in cowpea. Here we describe an optimized protocol for the rapid generation of transformed hairy roots on ex vitro composite plants of cowpea using Agrobacterium rhizogenes. We further demonstrate the applicability of cowpea composite plants to study gene expression involved in the resistance response of the plant roots to attack by the root parasitic weed, Striga gesnerioides. The utility of the new system and critical parameters of the method are described and discussed herein. Cowpea composite plants offer a rapid alternative to methods requiring stable transformation and whole plant regeneration for studying gene expression in resistance or susceptibility responses to parasitic weeds. Their use can likely be readily adapted to look at the effects of both ectopic gene overexpression as well as gene knockdown of root associated defense responses and to the study of a broader range of root associated physiological and aphysiological processes including root growth and differentiation as well as interactions with other root pests, parasites, and symbionts.
Cyclic-β-glucans (CβG) consist of cyclic homo-polymers of glucose that are present in the periplasmic space of many Gram-negative bacteria. A number of studies have demonstrated their importance for bacterial infection of plant and animal cells. In this study, a mutant of Rhizobium (Sinorhizobium) sp. strain NGR234 (NGR234) was generated in the cyclic glucan synthase (ndvB)-encoding gene. The great majority of CβG produced by wild-type NGR234 are negatively charged and substituted. The ndvB mutation abolished CβG biosynthesis. We found that, in NGR234, a functional ndvB gene is essential for hypo-osmotic adaptation and swimming, attachment to the roots, and efficient infection of Vigna unguiculata and Leucaena leucocephala.
A novel dehydrin gene (VrDhn1) was isolated from an embryo cDNA library of Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek (mungbean) variety VC1973A. The intronless VrDhn1 gene encodes a protein belonging to the Y(2)K-type dehydrin family. VrDhn1 protein accumulated in embryos and cotyledons during seed maturation and disappeared 2 days after seed imbibition (DAI). The expression of VrDhn1 mRNA and accumulation of VrDhn1 protein were at high levels in mature seeds, but neither mRNA nor protein was detected in mungbean vegetative tissues under normal growth conditions. The VrDhn1 mRNA level was extremely high in mature seeds and decreased to ∼30% at 1 DAI, and was not detectable at ~7 DAI. Tissue dehydration, salinity and exogenous ABA markedly induced VrDhn1 transcripts in plants as measured by quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR). VrDhn1 protein was not detected using immunoblots in seedlings under stress treatments. In mature seeds or 1 DAI seedlings, VrDhn1 proteins were immunolocalized in the nucleus and cytoplasm. VrDhn1 exhibited low affinity for non-specific interaction with DNA using electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs), and the exogenous addition of Zn(2+) or Ni(2+) stimulated interaction. The His-tagged VrDhn1 (30.17 kDa) protein showed a molecular mass of 63.1 kDa on gel filtration, suggesting a dimer form. This is the first report showing that a Y(2)K-type VrDhn1 enters the nucleus and interacts with DNA during seed maturation.
The Sinorhizobium fredii HH103 rkp-3 region has been isolated and sequenced. Based on the similarities between the S. fredii HH103 rkpL, rkpM, rkpN, rkpO, rkpP, and rkpQ genes and their corresponding orthologues in Helicobacter pylori, we propose a possible pathway for the biosynthesis of the S. fredii HH103 K-antigen polysaccharide (KPS) repeating unit. Three rkp-3 genes (rkpM, rkpP, and rkpQ) involved in the biosynthesis of the HH103 KPS repeating unit (a derivative of the pseudaminic acid) have been mutated and analyzed. All the rkp-3 mutants failed to produce KPS and their lipopolysaccharide (LPS) profiles were altered. These mutants showed reduced motility and auto-agglutinated when early-stationary cultures were further incubated under static conditions. Glycine max, Vigna unguiculata (determinate nodule-forming legumes), and Cajanus cajan (indeterminate nodules) plants inoculated with mutants in rkpM, rkpQ, or rkpP only formed pseudonodules that did not fix nitrogen and were devoid of bacteria. In contrast, another indeterminate nodule-forming legume, Glycyrrhiza uralensis, was still able to form some nitrogen-fixing nodules with the three S. fredii HH103 rifampicin-resistant rkp-3 mutants tested. Our results suggest that the severe symbiotic impairment of the S. fredii rkp-3 mutants with soybean, V. unguiculata, and C. cajan is mainly due to the LPS alterations rather than to the incapacity to produce KPS.
A MADS box gene AGL20/SOC1 is a main integrator in Arabidopsis flowering pathway whose structure and function are highly conserved in many plant species. A soybean MADS box gene GmGAL1 (Glycine max AGAMOUS Like 1) as a homolog of AGL20/SOC1, was cloned from soybean cultivar Kennong18 and its function was investigated in transgenic Arabidopsis lines. Sequence comparisons showed that the closest homolog gene to GmGAL1 is AGL20/SOC1 in Arabidopsis and VuSOC1 in Vigna unguiculata. We investigated the expression level of GmGAL1 using quantitative real-time PCR, and the result showed that GmGAL1 was regulated by a circadian mechanism and its expression oscillated at a cycle of 24 h. The expression level of GmGAL1 was fluctuated in diverse tissues/organs and developmental stages. Considering its expression can be detected in different tissues throughout the life cycle and its protein localized in cytoplasm in Arabidopsis protoplasm, we proposed that GmGAL1 may be a multifunctional gene in the context of the soybean development. Ectopic expression of GmGAL1 in Arabidopsis enhanced flowering under long-day condition and partially rescued soc1 late flowering type.
A new method for obtaining transgenic cowpea was developed using positive selection based on the Escherichia coli 6-phosphomannose isomerase gene as the selectable marker and mannose as the selective agent. Only transformed cells were capable of utilizing mannose as a carbon source. Cotyledonary node explants from 4-day-old in vitro-germinated seedlings of cultivar Pusa Komal were inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 carrying the vector pNOV2819. Regenerating transformed shoots were selected on medium supplemented with a combination of 20 g/l mannose and 5 g/l sucrose as carbon source. The transformed shoots were rooted on medium devoid of mannose. Transformation efficiency based on PCR analysis of individual putative transformed shoots was 3.6%. Southern blot analysis on five randomly chosen PCR-positive plants confirmed the integration of the pmi transgene. Qualitative reverse transcription (qRT-PCR) analysis demonstrated the expression of pmi in T₀ transgenic plants. Chlorophenol red (CPR) assays confirmed the activity of PMI in transgenic plants, and the gene was transmitted to progeny in a Mendelian fashion. The transformation method presented here for cowpea using mannose selection is efficient and reproducible, and could be used to introduce a desirable gene(s) into cowpea for biotic and abiotic stress tolerance.
A mung bean (Vigna radiata) pectin acetyl esterase (CAA67728) was heterologously expressed in tubers of potato (Solanum tuberosum) under the control of the granule-bound starch synthase promoter or the patatin promoter in order to probe the significance of O-acetylation on cell wall and tissue properties. The recombinant tubers showed no apparent macroscopic phenotype. The enzyme was recovered from transgenic tubers using a high ionic strength buffer and the extract was active against a range of pectic substrates. Partial in vivo de-acetylation of cell wall polysaccharides occurred in the transformants, as shown by a 39% decrease in the degree of acetylation (DA) of tuber cell wall material (CWM). Treatment of CWM using a combination of endo-polygalacturonase and pectin methyl esterase extracted more pectin polymers from the transformed tissue compared to wild type. The largest effect of the pectin acetyl esterase (68% decrease in DA) was seen in the residue from this extraction, suggesting that the enzyme is preferentially active on acetylated pectin that is tightly bound to the cell wall. The effects of acetylation on tuber mechanical properties were investigated by tests of failure under compression and by determination of viscoelastic relaxation spectra. These tests suggested that de-acetylation resulted in a stiffer tuber tissue and a stronger cell wall matrix, as a result of changes to a rapidly relaxing viscoelastic component. These results are discussed in relation to the role of pectin acetylation in primary cell walls and its implications for industrial uses of potato fibres.
Yellow mosaic disease of Vigna mungo caused by Mungbean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV) is still a major threat in the crop production. A candidate disease resistance (R) gene, CYR1 that co-segregates with MYMIV-resistant populations of V. mungo has been isolated. CYR1 coded in silico translated protein sequence comprised of 1,176 amino acids with coiled coil structure at the N-terminus, central nucleotide binding site (NBS) and C-terminal leucine-rich repeats (LRR) that belongs to non-TIR-NBS-LRR subfamily of plant R genes. CYR1 transcript was unambiguously expressed during incompatible plant virus interactions. A putative promoter-like sequence present upstream of this candidate gene perhaps regulates its expression. Enhanced transcript level upon MYMIV infection suggests involvement of this candidate gene in conferring resistance against the virus. In silico constructed 3D models of NBS and LRR regions of this candidate protein and MYMIV-coat protein (CP) revealed that CYR1-LRR forms an active pocket and successively interacts with MYMIV-CP during docking, like that of receptor-ligand interaction; indicating a critical role of CYR1 as signalling molecule to protect V. mungo plants from MYMIV. This suggests involvement of CYR1 in recognizing MYMIV-effector molecule thus contributing to incompatible interaction. This study is the first stride to understand molecular mechanism of MYMIV resistance.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata spp unguiculata) is adapted to the drier agro-ecological zones of West Africa where it is a major source of dietary protein and widely used as a fodder crop. Improving the productivity of cowpea can enhance food availability and security in West Africa. Insect predation--predominately from the legume pod borer (Maruca vitrata), flower thrips (Megalurothrips sjostedti) and a complex of pod-sucking bugs (e.g., Clavigralla spp)--is a major yield-limiting factor in West African cowpea production. Dramatic increases in yield are shown when M. vitrata is controlled with insecticides. However, availability, costs, and safety considerations limit pesticides as a viable option for boosting cowpea production. Development of Bt-cowpea through genetic modification (GM) to control the legume pod borer is a promising approach to cowpea improvement. Cowpea expressing the lepidopteran-active Cry1Ab protein from Bacillus thuringiensis is being developed as a first generation Bt-cowpea crop for West Africa. Appropriate stewardship of Bt-cowpea to assure its sustainability under West African conditions is critical to its successful development. A first step in this process is an environmental risk assessment to determine the likelihood and magnitude of adverse effects of the Cry1Ab protein on key environmental protection goals in West Africa. Here we describe the results of an expert panel convened in 2009 to develop the problem formulation phase for Bt-cowpea and to address specific issues around gene flow, non-target arthropods, and insect resistance management.
In the last three decades, a number of attempts have been made to develop reproducible protocols for generating transgenic cowpea that permit the expression of genes of agronomic importance. Pioneer works focused on the development of such systems vis-à-vis an in vitro culture system that would guarantee de novo regeneration of transgenic cowpea arising from cells amenable to one form of gene delivery system or another, but any such system has eluded researchers over the years. Despite this apparent failure, significant progress has been made in generating transgenic cowpea, bringing researchers much nearer to their goal than thirty years ago. Now, various researchers have successfully established transgenic procedures for cowpea with evidence of inherent transgenes of interest, effected by progenies in a Mendelian fashion. New opportunities have thus emerged to optimize existing protocols and devise new strategies to ensure the development of transgenic cowpea with desirable agronomic traits. This review chronicles the important milestones in the last thirty years that have marked the evolution of genetic engineering of cowpea. It also highlights the progress made and describes new strategies that have arisen, culminating in the current status of transgenic technologies for cowpea.
Two different but related sequences that encode Vigna luteola 7S vicilins were isolated and characterized. The sequences differ by two nucleotide substitutions, each of which results in an amino acid replacement. This low level of divergence suggests that a recent gene duplication has occurred. Both variants are expressed in cDNA populations; therefore, neither gene is a pseudogene. Both copies were present in all individuals (72) analyzed using real-time PCR and TaqMan probes. Segregation was not observed. The two sequences are not independent alleles. Vicilin genomic sequences of 11 specimens from six geographic locations were determined. No polymorphic sites were identified in either of the two gene copies. This lack of polymorphism suggests that either a population bottleneck or selection has occurred. The genetic structure, expression patterns, and protein composition of the V. luteola vicilins were compared to those of other legume vicilins.
N-Acyl-homoserine-lactones (AHLs) are bacterial quorum-sensing signaling molecules that regulate population density. Recent evidence demonstrates their roles in plant defense responses and root development. Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), nitric oxide (NO), and cyclic GMP (cGMP) are essential messengers that participate in various plant physiological processes, but how these messengers modulate the plant response to N-acyl-homoserine-lactone signals remains poorly understood. Here, we show that the N-3-oxo-decanoyl-homoserine-lactone (3-O-C10-HL), in contrast to its analog with an unsubstituted branch chain at the C3 position, efficiently stimulated the formation of adventitious roots and the expression of auxin-response genes in explants of mung bean (Vigna radiata) seedlings. This response was mimicked by the exogenous application of auxin, H(2)O(2), NO, or cGMP homologs but suppressed by treatment with scavengers or inhibitors of H(2)O(2), NO, or cGMP metabolism. The 3-O-C10-HL treatment enhanced auxin basipetal transport; this effect could be reversed by treatment with H(2)O(2) or NO scavengers but not by inhibitors of cGMP synthesis. Inhibiting 3-O-C10-HL-induced H(2)O(2) or NO accumulation impaired auxin- or 3-O-C10-HL-induced cGMP synthesis; however, blocking cGMP synthesis did not affect auxin- or 3-O-C10-HL-induced H(2)O(2) or NO generation. Additionally, cGMP partially rescued the inhibitory effect of H(2)O(2) or NO scavengers on 3-O-C10-HL-induced adventitious root development and auxin-response gene expression. These results suggest that 3-O-C10-HL, unlike its analog with an unmodified branch chain at the C3 position, can accelerate auxin-dependent adventitious root formation, possibly via H(2)O(2)- and NO-dependent cGMP signaling in mung bean seedlings.
Viruses can be used as vectors for transient expression of proteins in plants but frequently foreign gene inserts are not maintained stably over time due to recombination events. In this study the hypothesis was that the choice of plant host affects the foreign gene retention level by a Tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV) vector expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP). To accomplish this, a novel virus vector integrity bioassay was developed based on an old concept, whereby RNA transcripts of the TBSV-GFP vector were rub-inoculated onto leaves of test plants, and at 3 days post inoculation (dpi), these leaves were used as inoculum for passage to cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), a local lesion host. Chlorotic lesions at points of virus infection were counted on cowpea at 4dpi and then the leaves were exposed to ultraviolet light to count green fluorescent foci. These tests with seven different plant species covering five families showed that the percentage of green fluorescent lesions varied on the cowpea indicator plants in a host-dependent manner. For instance, the vector was relatively unstable in Nicotiana benthamiana, tomato, bean, and spinach, but compared to those its stability in lettuce was significantly improved (~3-fold). This host-dependent effect suggests that some plants may present a more suitable environment than others to support or maintain optimum levels of virus vector-mediated foreign gene expression.
In the presence of flavonoids, Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 synthesizes a new lipopolysaccharide (LPS), characterized by a rhamnan O-antigen. The presence of this rhamnose-rich LPS is important for the establishment of competent symbiotic interactions between NGR234 and many species of leguminous plants. Two putative rhamnosyl transferases are encoded in a cluster of genes previously shown to be necessary for the synthesis of the rhamnose-rich LPS. These two genes, wbgA and rgpF, were mutated. The resulting mutant strains synthesized truncated rough LPS species rather than the wild-type rhamnose-rich LPS when grown with flavonoids. Based on the compositions of these purified mutant LPS species, we inferred that RgpF is responsible for adding the first one to three rhamnose residues to the flavonoid-induced LPS, whereas WbgA is necessary for the synthesis of the rest of the rhamnan O-antigen. The NGR234 homologue of lpsB, which, in other bacteria, encodes a glycosyl transferase acting early in synthesis of the core portion of LPS, was identified and also mutated. LpsB was required for all the LPS species produced by NGR234, in the presence or absence of flavonoids. Mutants (i.e., of lpsB and rgpF) that lacked any portion of the rhamnan O-antigen of the induced LPS were severely affected in their symbiotic interaction with Vigna unguiculata, whereas the NGR?wbgA mutant, although having very few rhamnose residues in its LPS, was able to elicit functional nodules.
Genotypic- and silicon (Si)-mediated differences in manganese (Mn) tolerance of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) arise from a combination of symplastic and apoplastic traits. A detailed metabolomic inspection could help to identify functional associations between genotype- and Si-mediated Mn tolerance and metabolism. Two cowpea genotypes differing in Mn tolerance (TVu 91, Mn sensitive; TVu 1987, Mn tolerant) were subjected to differential Mn and Si treatments. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS)-based metabolite profiling of leaf material was performed. Detailed evaluation of the response of metabolites was combined with gene expression and physiological analyses. After 2 d of 50 μM Mn supply TVu 91 expressed toxicity symptoms first in the form of brown spots on the second oldest trifoliate leaves. Silicon treatment suppressed symptom development in TVu 91. Despite higher concentrations of Mn in leaves of TVu 1987 compared with TVu 91, the tolerant genotype did not show symptoms. From sample cluster formation as identified by independent component analysis (ICA) of metabolite profiles it is concluded that genotypic differences accounted for the highest impact on variation in metabolite pools, followed by Mn and Si treatments in one of two experiments. Analysis of individual metabolites corroborated a comparable minor role for Mn and Si treatments in the modulation of individual metabolites. Mapping individual metabolites differing significantly between genotypes onto biosynthetic pathways and gene expression studies on the corresponding pathways suggest that genotypic Mn tolerance is a consequence of differences (i) in the apoplastic binding capacity; (ii) in the capability to maintain a high antioxidative state; and (iii) in the activity of shikimate and phenylpropanoid metabolism.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is an important crop in arid and semi-arid regions and is a good model for studying drought tolerance. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are known to play critical roles in plant stress responses, but drought-associated miRNAs have not been identified in cowpea. In addition, it is not understood how miRNAs might contribute to different capacities of drought tolerance in different cowpea genotypes. We generated deep sequencing small RNA reads from two cowpea genotypes (CB46, drought-sensitive, and IT93K503-1, drought-tolerant) that grew under well-watered and drought stress conditions. We mapped small RNA reads to cowpea genomic sequences and identified 157 miRNA genes that belong to 89 families. Among 44 drought-associated miRNAs, 30 were upregulated in drought condition and 14 were downregulated. Although miRNA expression was in general consistent in two genotypes, we found that nine miRNAs were predominantly or exclusively expressed in one of the two genotypes and that 11 miRNAs were drought-regulated in only one genotype, but not the other. These results suggest that miRNAs may play important roles in drought tolerance in cowpea and may be a key factor in determining the level of drought tolerance in different cowpea genotypes.
Al-activated organic acid anion efflux from roots is an important Al resistance mechanism in plants. We have conducted homologous cloning and isolated Vigna umbellata multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (VuMATE), a gene encoding a de novo citrate transporter from rice bean. Al treatment up-regulated VuMATE expression in the root apex, but neither in the mature root region nor in the leaf. The degree of up-regulation of VuMATE was both partially Al concentration and time dependent, consistent with the delay in the onset of the Al-induced citrate efflux in rice bean roots. While La(3+) moderately induced VuMATE expression, Cd(2+) and Cu(2+) did not induce the expression. Electrophysiological analysis of Xenopus oocytes expressing VuMATE indicated this transporter can mediate significant anion efflux across the plasma membrane. [(14) C]citrate efflux experiments in oocytes demonstrated that VuMATE is a H(+) -dependent citrate transporter. In addition, expression of VuMATE in transgenic tomato resulted in increased Al resistance, which correlated with an enhanced citrate efflux. Taken together, these findings suggest that VuMATE is a functional homolog of the known citrate transporters in sorghum, barley, maize and Arabidopsis. The similarities and differences of all the known citrate transporters associated with Al stress in the MATE family are also discussed.
Plants are sessile organisms subjected to many environmental adversities. For their survival they must sense and respond to biotic and abiotic stresses efficiently. During this process, protein kinases are essential in the perception of environmental stimuli, triggering signaling cascades. Kinases are among the largest and most important gene families for biotechnological purposes, bringing many challenges to the bioinformaticians due to the combination of conserved domains besides diversified regions. Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is an important legume that is adapted to different agroclimatic conditions, including drought, humidity and a range of temperatures. For this crop, the association of the SuperSAGE method with high-throughput sequencing technology would generate reliable transcriptome profiles with millions of tags counted and statistically analyzed. An approach evaluating biotic and abiotic stresses was carried out generating over 13 million cowpea SuperSAGE tags available from leaves/roots of plants under abiotic (mechanical injury and salinity) or biotic (CABMV, Cowpea aphid born mosaic virus) stresses. The annotation and identification of tags linked by BlastN to previously well described ESTs, allowed the posterior identification of kinases. The annotation efficiency depended on the database used, with the KEGG figuring as a good source for annotated ESTs especially when complemented by an independent Gene Ontology categorization, as well as the Gene Index using selected species. The use of different approaches allowed the identification of 1,350 kinase candidates considering biotic libraries and 2,268 regarding abiotic libraries, based on a combination of both, adequate descriptions and GO terms. Additional searches in kinase specific databases allowed the identification of a relatively low number of additional kinases, uncovering the lack of kinase databases for non-model organisms, especially plants. Concerning the kinase families, a total of 713 potential kinases were classified into 13 families of the CMGC and STE groups. Concerning the differentially expressed kinases, 169 of the 713 potential kinases were identified (p < 0.05), 100 up- and 69 down-regulated when comparing distinct libraries, allowing the generation of a comprehensive panel of the differentially expressed kinases under biotic and abiotic stresses in a non-model plant as cowpea.
Sarcolipin (SLN) inhibits sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA) pumps. To evaluate the physiological significance of SLN in skeletal muscle, we compared muscle contractility and SERCA activity between Sln-null and wild-type mice. SLN protein expression in wild-type mice was abundant in soleus and red gastrocnemius (RG), low in extensor digitorum longus (EDL), and absent from white gastrocnemius (WG). SERCA activity rates were increased in soleus and RG, but not in EDL or WG, from Sln-null muscles, compared with wild type. No differences were seen between wild-type and Sln-null EDL muscles in force-frequency curves or maximum rates of force development (+dF/dt). Maximum relaxation rates (-dF/dt) of EDL were higher in Sln-null than wild type across a range of submaximal stimulation frequencies, but not during a twitch or peak tetanic contraction. For soleus, no differences were seen between wild type and Sln-null in peak tetanic force or +dF/dt; however, force-frequency curves showed that peak force during a twitch and 10-Hz contraction was lower in Sln-null. Changes in the soleus force-frequency curve corresponded with faster rates of force relaxation at nearly all stimulation frequencies in Sln-null compared with wild type. Repeated tetanic stimulation of soleus caused increased (-dF/dt) in wild type, but not in Sln-null. No compensatory responses were detected in analysis of other Ca(2+) regulatory proteins using Western blotting and immunohistochemistry or myosin heavy chain expression using immunofluorescence. These results show that 1) SLN regulates Ca(2+)-ATPase activity thereby regulating contractile kinetics in at least some skeletal muscles, 2) the functional significance of SLN is graded to the endogenous SLN expression level, and 3) SLN inhibitory effects on SERCA function are relieved in response to repeated contractions thus enhancing relaxation rates.
Extreme resistance of Arlington line cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) to Cowpea mosaic virus (CPMV) is under control of a dominant locus designated Cpa. We transiently expressed, using Tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV) vectors and Agrobacterium tumefaciens, in nearly isogenic Cpa/Cpa and cpa/cpa cowpea lines, sequences from RNA1, the larger of two CPMV genomic RNAs. Activation of a Cpa-specific response mapped to the CPMV 24K protease (24KPro). Mutational analysis of the 24KPro gene implicated protease activity, rather than 24KPro structure, in Cpa-mediated recognition of CPMV invasion. A 24KPro with alanine replacing the active site cysteine [24KPro(C-A)], but not wildtype 24KPro, accumulated after agroinfiltration of the corresponding binary vector constructions into Cpa/Cpa cowpea. In cpa/cpa cowpea, both protease versions accumulated, with 24KPro(C-A) in greater abundance. Thus, enzymically active 24KPro was recognized by both cowpea genotypes, but in Cpa/Cpa cowpea the suppression of 24KPro accumulation was very strong, consistent with extreme resistance to CPMV.
Mungbean, Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek is an important pulse crop that is widely cultivated in semi- arid tropics. The crop is attacked by various soil-borne pathogens like Rhizoctonia solani, which causes dry rot disease and seriously affects its productivity. Earlier we characterized the non-expressor of pathogenesis related gene-1(BjNPR1) of mustard, Brassica juncea, the counterpart of AtNPR1 of Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we transformed mungbean with BjNPR1 via Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Because of the recalcitrant nature of mungbean, the effect of some factors like Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains (GV2260 and LBA4404), pH, L: -cysteine and tobacco leaf extract was tested in transformation. The transgenic status of 15 plants was confirmed by PCR using primers for nptII. The independent integration of T-DNA in transgenic plants was analyzed by Southern hybridization with an nptII probe and the expression of BjNPR1 was confirmed by RT-PCR. Some of the T(0) plants were selected for detached leaf anti-fungal bioassay using the fungus Rhizoctonia solani, which showed moderate to high level of resistance depending on the level of expression of BjNPR1. The seedling bioassay of transgenic T(2) plants indicated resistance against dry rot disease caused by R. solani.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis and dysplasia in one or more lineages, produce life-threatening cytopenias and progress to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Growing evidence suggests that targeting epigenetic mechanisms improves MDS/AML pathophysiology. This review provides an understanding of studies investigating novel agents published up to January 2011 aimed at normalizing and monitoring the epigenetic profile of the MDS cancer cell. The authors discuss how non-intensive epigenetic therapy can 're-programme' gene expression patterns of abnormal hematopoiesis in MDS. Recently FDA-approved DNA-methyltransferase inhibitors, 5-azacytidine and 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine or decitabine, represent frontline nonablative treatments, while combinations with histone deacetylase inhibitors show promising synergism in preclinical and Phase I/II trials in tumor suppressor gene re-expression and overall survival. Additional epigenetic mechanisms including non-encoding transcripts with inhibitory posttranscriptional regulatory functions, such as microRNAs, though not fully understood, present novel molecular and clinical implications in these disorders. Alongside current single-agent epigenetic regimens, combination therapies represent potentially effective options for intermediate-2 and high-risk MDS. Methylation profiles and gene mutation predictors provide promising areas of development for monitoring MDS disease progression and outcome, while targeting microRNA dysregulation represents an important therapeutic goal.
Macrophomina phaseolina is an emerging and devastating fungal pathogen that causes significant losses in crop production under high temperatures and drought stress. An increasing number of disease incidence reports highlight the wide prevalence of the pathogen around the world and its contribution toward crop yield suppression. In cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L) Walp.], limited sources of low-level host resistance have been identified, the genetic basis of which is unknown. In this study we report on the identification of strong sources of host resistance to M. phaseolina and the genetic mapping of putative resistance loci on a cowpea genetic map comprised of gene-derived single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). Nine quantitative trait loci (QTLs), accounting for between 6.1 and 40.0% of the phenotypic variance (R2), were identified using plant mortality data taken over three years in field experiments and disease severity scores taken from two greenhouse experiments. Based on annotated genic SNPs as well as synteny with soybean (Glycine max) and Medicago truncatula, candidate resistance genes were found within mapped QTL intervals. QTL Mac-2 explained the largest percent R2 and was identified in three field and one greenhouse experiments where the QTL peak co-located with a SNP marker derived from a pectin esterase inhibitor encoding gene. Maturity effects on the expression of resistance were indicated by the co-location of Mac-6 and Mac-7 QTLs with maturity-related senescence QTLs Mat-2 and Mat-1, respectively. Homologs of the ELF4 and FLK flowering genes were found in corresponding syntenic soybean regions. Only three Macrophomina resistance QTLs co-located with delayed drought-induced premature senescence QTLs previously mapped in the same population, suggesting that largely different genetic mechanisms mediate cowpea response to drought stress and Macrophomina infection. Effective sources of host resistance were identified in this study. QTL mapping and synteny analysis identified genomic loci harboring resistance factors and revealed candidate genes with potential for further functional genomics analysis.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) is a unique species in its ability to fix atmospheric nitrogen, with early maturity, and relatively good drought resistance. We used 454 sequencing technology for transcriptome sequencing. A total of 150 159 and 142 993 reads produced 5 254 and 6 374 large contigs (≥ 500 bp) with an average length of 833 and 853 for Sunhwa and Jangan, respectively. Functional annotation to known sequences yielded 41.34% and 41.74% unigenes for Jangan and Sunhwa. A higher number of simple sequence repeat (SSR) motifs was identified in Jangan (1 630) compared with that of Sunhwa (1 334). A similar SSR distribution pattern was observed in both varieties. A total of 8 249 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and indels with 2 098 high-confidence candidates were identified in the two mungbean varieties. The average distance between individual SNPs was approximately 860 bp. Our report demonstrates the utility of transcriptomic data for implementing a functional annotation and development of genetic markers. We also provide large resource sequence data for mungbean improvement programs.
Rhizosphere microorganisms possessing phytase activity are considered important for rendering phytate-P available to plants. In the present study, Citrobacter braakii phytase gene (appA) was over-expressed in rhizobacteria possessing plant growth promoting (PGP) traits for increasing their potential as bioinoculants. AppA was cloned under the lac promoter in the broad host-range expression vector pBBR1MCS2. Transformation of the recombinant construct pCBappA resulted in high constitutive phytase activity in all of the eight rhizobacterial strains belonging to genera Pantoea, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Pseudomonas (two strains), Rhizobium (two strains) and Ensifer that were studied. Transgenic rhizobacterial strains were found to display varying level of phytase activity, ranging from 10 folds to 538 folds higher than the corresponding control strains. Transgenic derivative of Pseudomonas fluorescens CHA0, a well-characterized plant growth promoting rhizobacterium, showed highest expression of phytase (~8 U/ mg) activity in crude extracts. Although all transformants showed high phytase activity, rhizobacteria having ability to secrete organic acid, showed significantly higher release of P from Ca-phytate in buffered minimal media. AppA over-expressing rhizobacteria showed increased P content, dry weight (shoot) or shoot/ root ratio of mung bean (Vigna radiata) plants, to different extents, when grown in semi solid agar (SSA) medium containing Na-phytate or Ca-phytate as the P sources. This is the first report of over-expression of phytase in rhizobacterial strains and its exploitation for plant growth enhancement.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata L. cv. Tainan no. 5) starch branching enzyme I (SBE, EC 2.4.1.18) cDNA, VrsbeI, was cloned, and its expression was characterized. Conserved regions of the family B SBE were used to amplify a full length cDNA of 2208 bp. Phylogeny was analyzed, and the partial 3D structure and functional features were predicted. Catalytic residues were identified in the (α/β)(8)-fold, and a unique loop from F365 to F376 between β3/α3 was located. Gene expression of VrsbeI in seeds during growth showed that the transcript appeared from week 1 and increased substantially at week 3-4. It was cloned into the pET30 vector and expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3) pLysS cells as a soluble recombinant protein. The affinity-purified recombinant VrSBEI exhibited a specific activity of 314.6 U/mg as an active enzyme with 114-fold activity enrichment from the crude extract.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenous, noncoding, short RNAs directly involved in regulating gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. High conservation of miRNAs in plant provides the foundation for identification of new miRNAs in other plant species through homology alignment. Here, previous known plant miRNAs were BLASTed against the Expressed Sequence Tag (EST) and Genomic Survey Sequence (GSS) databases of Vigna unguiculata, and according to a series of filtering criteria, a total of 47 miRNAs belonging to 13 miRNA families were identified, and 30 potential target genes of them were subsequently predicted, most of which seemed to encode transcription factors or enzymes participating in regulation of development, growth, metabolism, and other physiological processes. Overall, our findings lay the foundation for further researches of miRNAs function in Vigna unguiculata.
The locus Rk confers resistance against several species of root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp., RKN) in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Based on histological and reactive oxygen species (ROS) profiles, Rk confers a delayed but strong resistance mechanism without a hypersensitive reaction-mediated cell death process, which allows nematode development but blocks reproduction. Responses to M. incognita infection in roots of resistant genotype CB46 and a susceptible near-isogenic line (null-Rk) were investigated using a soybean Affymetrix GeneChip expression array at 3 and 9 days post-inoculation (dpi). At 9 dpi 552 genes were differentially expressed in incompatible interactions (infected resistant tissue compared with non-infected resistant tissue) and 1,060 genes were differentially expressed in compatible interactions (infected susceptible tissue compared with non-infected susceptible tissue). At 3 dpi the differentially expressed genes were 746 for the incompatible and 623 for the compatible interactions. When expression between infected resistant and susceptible genotypes was compared, 638 and 197 genes were differentially expressed at 9 and 3 dpi, respectively. In comparing the differentially expressed genes in response to nematode infection, a greater number and proportion of genes were down-regulated in the resistant than in the susceptible genotype, whereas more genes were up-regulated in the susceptible than in the resistant genotype. Gene ontology based functional categorization revealed that the typical defense response was partially suppressed in resistant roots, even at 9 dpi, allowing nematode juvenile development. Differences in ROS concentrations, induction of toxins and other defense related genes seem to play a role in this unique resistance mechanism.
In this work, the role of the rkpU and rkpJ genes in the production of the K-antigen polysaccharides (KPS) and in the symbiotic capacity of Sinorhizobium fredii HH103, a broad host-range rhizobial strain able to nodulate soybean and many other legumes, was studied. The rkpJ- and rkpU-encoded products are orthologous to Escherichia coli proteins involved in capsule export. S. fredii HH103 mutant derivatives were contructed in both genes. To our knowledge, this is the first time that the role of rkpU in KPS production has been studied in rhizobia. Both rkpJ and rkpU mutants were unable to produce KPS. The rkpU derivative also showed alterations in its lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Neither KPS production nor rkpJ and rkpU expression was affected by the presence of the flavonoid genistein. Soybean (Glycine max) plants inoculated with the S. fredii HH103 rkpU and rkpJ mutants showed reduced nodulation and clear symptoms of nitrogen starvation. However, neither the rkpJ nor the rkpU mutants were significantly impaired in their symbiotic interaction with cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Thus, we demonstrate for the first time to our knowledge the involvement of the rkpU gene in rhizobial KPS production and also show that the symbiotic relevance of the S. fredii HH103 KPS depends on the specific bacterium-legume interaction.
Using Phaseoleae defensins available in databases, a putative defensin gene was isolated in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) and cloned from genomic cowpea DNA. The putative mature defensin sequence displays the characteristic defensins residues arrangement, secondary and tertiary structures were predicted and splicing analysis was performed. Using RT-PCR, defensin expression and differences in response to biotic stimuli between infected and non infected plants were tested.
We investigated the effects of azuki bean (Vigna angularis) seed coats (ABSC), which contain polyphenols, on the vascular oxidative stress and inflammation associated with hypertension. Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and control normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were divided into 2 groups each. One group was fed 0% ABSC; the other, a 1.0% ABSC-containing diet. Tail systolic blood pressure (SBP) was examined throughout ABSC treatment. At 8 weeks, vascular superoxide (O(2)(-)) production was measured by lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence. mRNA expressions of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase subunits, macrophage chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and its receptor C-C chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) in the aorta were analyzed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Protein expressions of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) were determined by western blotting. Polyphenol-containing ABSC suppressed the elevation of SBP throughout the treatment period. The NADPH-stimulated O(2)(-) level decreased significantly in the aorta of ABSC-treated SHR compared with the level of untreated SHR. The p47phox and Nox4 mRNA expression increased significantly in untreated SHR compared with that in WKY rats. Conversely, the level of p47phox mRNA was significantly lower in ABSC-treated SHR than in untreated SHR. The protein abundance of both iNOS and COX-2 was significantly decreased in the aorta of the ABSC-treated SHR compared with this abundance in untreated SHR. The MCP-1 and CCR2 mRNA expressions increased in untreated SHR, and these levels were significantly lower in ABSC-treated SHR. In conclusion, our results suggested that polyphenol-containing ABSC could attenuate vascular oxidative stress and inflammation during the progression of hypertension, and this may lead to an improvement in hypertension.
In this report a full-length cDNA, SPCP2, which encoded a putative papain-like cysteine protease was isolated from senescent leaves of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas). SPCP2 contained 1101 nucleotides (366 amino acids) in its open reading frame, and exhibited high amino acid sequence identities (ca. 68% to 83%) with plant cysteine proteases, including Actinidia deliciosa, Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica oleracea, Phaseolus vulgaris, Pisum sativa, Vicia faba, Vicia sativa and Vigna mungo. RT-PCR analysis showed that SPCP2 gene expression was enhanced significantly in natural senescent leaves and in dark-, abscisic acid- (ABA-), jasmonic acid- (JA-) and ethephon-induced senescent leaves, but was almost not detected in mature green leaves, stems, and roots. Transgenic Arabidopsis with constitutive SPCP2 expression exhibited earlier floral transition from vegetative to reproductive growth, higher percentage of incompletely developed siliques per plant, reduced average fresh weight and lower germination percentage of seed, and higher salt and drought stress tolerance compared to those of control. Based on these results we conclude that sweet potato papain-like cysteine protease, SPCP2, is a functional senescence-associated gene, and its expression causes altered developmental characteristics and stress responses in transgenic Arabidopsis plants.
Endogenous trypsin inhibitors are synthesized, stored, and secreted by pancreatic acinar cells. It is believed that they play a protective role in the pancreas by inhibiting trypsin within the cell should trypsinogen become prematurely activated. Rodent trypsin inhibitors are highly homologous to human serine protease inhibitor Kazal-type 1 (SPINK1). The mouse has one pancreatic trypsin inhibitor known as SPINK3, and the rat has two trypsin inhibitors commonly known as pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitors I and II (PSTI-I and -II). Rat PSTI-I is a 61-amino acid protein that shares 65% sequence identity with mouse SPINK3. It was recently demonstrated that mice with genetic deletion of the Spink3 gene (Spink3(-/-)) do not survive beyond 15 days and lack normal pancreata because of pancreatic autophagy. We have shown that targeted transgenic expression of the rat Psti1 gene to acinar cells in mice [TgN(Psti1)] protects mice against caerulein-induced pancreatitis. To determine whether the autophagic phenotype and lethality in Spink3(-/-) mice were due to lack of pancreatic trypsin inhibitor, we conducted breeding studies with Spink3(+/-) heterozygous mice and TgN(Psti1) mice. We observed that, whereas Spink3(+/+), Spink3(+/-), and Spink3(-/-)/TgN(Psti1) mice had similar survival rates, no Spink3(-/-) mice survived longer than 1 wk. The level of expression of SPINK3 protein in acini was reduced in heterozygote mice compared with wild-type mice. Furthermore, endogenous trypsin inhibitor capacity was reduced in the pancreas of heterozygote mice compared with wild-type or knockout mice rescued with the rat Psti1 gene. Surprisingly, the lesser amount of SPINK3 present in the pancreata of heterozygote mice did not predispose animals to increased susceptibility to caerulein-induced acute pancreatitis. We propose that a threshold level of expression is sufficient to protect against pancreatitis.
Defensin, thionin and lipid transfer protein (LTP) gene families, which antimicrobial activity has an attractive use in protein engineering and transgenic production of agronomical important plants, have been here functionally reviewed. Also, a transcriptional overview of a set of plant SuperSAGE libraries and analysis looking for 26 bp tags possibly annotated for those families is presented. Tags differentially expressed (p = 0.05) or constitutively transcribed were identified from leaves or roots SuperSAGE libraries from important Brazilian plant species [cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.), soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) and modern sugarcane hybrids (Saccharum spp.)] submitted to abiotic [salt (100 mM NaCl) or drought] or biotic stresses [fungus inoculation (Phakopsora pachyrhizi; Asiatic Soyben Rust phytopathogen)]. The diverse transcriptional patterns observed, probably related to the variable range of targets and functions involved, could be the first step to unravel the antimicrobial peptide world and the plant stress response relationship. Moreover, SuperSAGE opens the opportunity to find some SNPs or even rare transcript that could be important on plant stress resistance mechanisms. Putative defensin or LTP identified by SuperSAGE following a specific plant treatment or physiological condition could be useful for future use in genetic improvement of plants.
Glutathione (GSH) is an abundant metabolite and a major antioxidant in plant cells. However, in the Leguminosae, homoglutathione (hGSH) may replace glutathione (GSH) partially or completely. To date, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) has been considered a non-hGSH-producing species, and no hGSHS cDNA has been isolated. Here we report on the cloning of a full-length cDNA coding for a hGSHS (EC 6.3.2.23) and the cloning of a partial cDNA coding for a putative glutathione synthetase (GSHS; EC 6.3.2.3) in cowpea leaf extracts. These cDNAs possess, respectively, the leucine/proline hGSHS signature and the alanine/alanine GSHS signature at the 3' end. Expression analysis showed a significant up-regulation of hGSHS during progressive drought stress that could be directly related to the drought tolerance of the cowpea cultivar used, while GSHS was mainly constitutively expressed. Nevertheless, quantification of low-molecular-weight thiols confirmed the previous findings that cowpea is essentially a GSH producing plant, as no hGSH was detected in the leaves. These findings raise new questions regarding the function, activity and substrate specificity of the cloned hGSHS cDNA. These questions are discussed.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) alternative oxidase is encoded by a small multigene family (Aox1, 2a and 2b) that is orthologous to the soybean Aox family. Like most of the identified Aox genes in plants, VuAox1 and VuAox2 consist of 4 exons interrupted by 3 introns. Alignment of the orthologous Aox genes revealed high identity of exons and intron variability, which is more prevalent in Aox1. In order to determine Aox gene expression in V. unguiculata, a steady-state analysis of transcripts involved in seed development (flowers, pods and dry seeds) and germination (soaked seeds) was performed and systemic co-expression of VuAox1 and VuAox2b was observed during germination. The analysis of Aox transcripts in leaves from seedlings under different stress conditions (cold, PEG, salicylate and H2O2 revealed stress-induced co-expression of both VuAox genes. Transcripts of VuAox2a and 2b were detected in all control seedlings, which was not the case for VuAox1 mRNA. Estimation of the primary transcript lengths of V. unguiculata and soybean Aox genes showed an intron length reduction for VuAox1 and 2b, suggesting that the two genes have converged in transcribed sequence length. Indeed, a bioinformatics analysis of VuAox1 and 2b promoters revealed a conserved region related to a cis-element that is responsive to oxidative stress. Taken together, the data provide evidence for co-expression of Aox1 and Aox2b in response to stress and also during the early phase of seed germination. The dual nature of VuAox2b expression (constitutive and induced) suggests that the constitutive Aox2b gene of V. unguiculata has acquired inducible regulatory elements.
The structure and function of untranslated mRNA leader sequences and their role in controlling gene expression remains poorly understood. Previous research has suggested that the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) of the Vigna radiata aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase synthase (VR-ACS1) gene may function as a translational enhancer in plants. To test such hypothesis we compared the translation enhancing properties of three different 5'UTRs; those from the VR-ACS1, the chlorophyll a/b binding gene from petunia (Cab22L; a known translational enhancer) and the Vigna radiata pectinacetylesterase gene (PAE; used as control). Identical constructs in which the coding region of the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene was fused to each of the three 5'UTRs and placed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter were prepared. Transient expression assays in tobacco cell cultures and mung bean leaves showed that the VR-ACS1 and Cab22L 5'UTRs directed higher levels of GUS activity than the PAE 5'UTR. Analysis of transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings, as well as different tissues from mature plants, confirmed that while transcript levels were equivalent for all constructs, the 5'UTRs from the VR-ACS1 and Cab22L genes can increase GUS activity twofold to fivefold compared to the PAE 5'UTR, therefore confirming the translational enhancing properties of the VR-ACS1 5'UTR.
The epitope presentation system for ectodomain of M2-protein of influenza A virus (M2e) based on Cowpea Mosaic Virus (CPMV) was constructed for expression in plants Vigna unguiculata. CPMV is widely used as a vector for production of immunogenic chimeric virus particles (CVPs) bearing epitopes of different infectious human and animal pathogens. To produce chimeric CPMV virus particles in plants, two binary vectors were constructed bearing modified gene coding for S-coat protein of CPMV with insertions of M2e epitopes of human influenza and bird influenza viruses. Antigenic and immunogenic properties of CVPs obtained were investigated in mice immunization experiments and it was shown that they can induce anti-M2e IgG production and partial protection mice against challenge with low doses of flu virus. However, low infectivity and immunogenicity of CPMV chimeric particles indicate the need for further optimization of plant virus-based systems for M2e-epitopes presentation to use plants as a possible source of flu vaccines.
Plant aspartic proteases are of recent origin with their physiological significance in crucial processes emerging. Reports on the significance of aspartic protease inhibitors and their endogenous proteases in seeds of plants are scanty. This paper reports the purification of an aspartic protease inhibitor from the seeds of Vigna radiata, its control of the endogenous aspartic protease and their subsequent role in the early germination events. The role of the aspartic protease inhibitor and the enzyme in initial stages of germination of V. radiata has been tracked by differential timed expression and germination assays. The expression pattern revealed maximum expression of the inhibitor in the dormant seeds while the enzyme was predominant in the germinating seeds. Their expression patterns and interactions indicate their significance in initiation of germination. The expression of other classes of proteases was monitored during germination and a model predicting the events occurring during proteolysis of the storage protein in germination is hypothesized. The inhibitor was a linear, hydrophobic, pH stable and thermostable peptide with molecular weight of 1660 Da. The purified inhibitor showed a pI of 4.36 with the sequence as AEIYN KDGNK LDLYG. The inhibitor was found to be stable in a broad range of pH from 2 to 10 with an optimum of 3.0. The half-life of VrAPI at 100 degrees C was 30 min whereas the maximum activity was observed at 37 degrees C. The initial kinetic analysis of the inhibitor against the endogenous protease showed an IC(50) value of 11 nM while the value of the inhibition rate constant K(i) was 34 x 10(-9)M.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are commonly found in plants as natural by-products of the metabolism but their production is greatly enhanced under abiotic stresses. Particular metabolites and enzymes belonging to the ascorbate-glutathione cycle are able to scavenge these deleterious molecules and modulate the cellular redox-status. In the March issue of Journal of Plant Physiology, we have shown that drought stress induces a raise in glutathione reductase (GR) activity and gene expression that could be related to the intensity of the drought treatment and the drought susceptibility of the bean cultivar (cowpea and/or common bean). In the present addendum we show new data on GR specific activity during progressive drought stress and recovery of the drought-susceptible bean cultivar which can be related to the previously found dual-targeted GR gene expression. Furthermore, since in leguminous plants homoglutathione (hGSH) is generally the most abundant low molecular weight thiol form, we discuss on the occurrence of a (homo)glutathione reductase activity in beans.
Cultured cells of Sinorhizobium sp. NGR234 produce an abundance of capsular polysaccharides, or K antigens; however, cells that are cultured in the presence of apigenin, a nod gene inducer, exhibited a significant reduction in K-antigen production. The flavonoid-induced modulation in capsule production appeared to be related to the phase-shift changes associated with bacteroid differentiation. Therefore, the polysaccharides were extracted from Sinorhizobium sp. NGR234 bacteroids recovered from Vigna unguiculata cv Red Caloona root nodules, and subsequent analyses showed that the bacteroid extracts were virtually devoid of K-antigen. Polysaccharide extracts from two nodulation mutants cultured in the presence of apigenin were then analyzed, and the results showed that the flavonoid-inducible decrease in K-antigen production is y4gM- and nodD1-dependent.
We investigated the possibility of introducing exogenous T cell receptor (TCR) genes into T cells by lentiviral transduction, without prior stimulation of endogenous TCR with anti-CD3. TCR transfer is used to impose tumor antigen specificity on recipient T cells, but sustained activation required for retroviral transduction may affect the clinical efficacy of engineered T cells. Cytokine stimulation makes T cells susceptible to lentiviral transduction in the absence of TCR triggering, but this advantage has never been exploited for TCR transfer. Autoimmune diseases are a source of high-affinity TCRs specific for self/tumor antigens. We selected, from a patient with vitiligo, a Mart1-specific TCR based on intrinsic interchain pairing properties and functional avidity. After lentiviral transduction of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, preferential pairing of exogenous alpha and beta chains was observed, together with effective recognition of Mart1(+) melanoma cells. We tested transduction efficiency on various T cell subsets prestimulated with interleukin (IL)-2, IL-7, IL-15, and IL-21 (alone or in combination). Both naive and unfractionated CD8(+) T cells could be transduced without requiring endogenous TCR triggering. IL-7 plus IL-15 was the most powerful combination, allowing high levels of transgene expression without inducing T cell differentiation (34 +/- 5% Mart1-TCR(+) cells in naive CD8(+) and 16 +/- 6% in unfractionated CD8(+)). Cytokine-prestimulated, Mart1-redirected naive and unfractionated CD8(+) cells expanded better than CD3-CD28-prestimulated counterparts in response to both peptide-pulsed antigen-presenting cells and Mart1(+) melanoma cells. This strategy allows the generation of tumor-specific T cells encompassing truly naive T cells, endowed with an intact proliferative potential and a preserved differentiation stage.
Many microRNAs (miRNAs), posttranscriptional regulators of numerous cellular processes and developmental events, are downregulated in tumors. However, their role in tumorigenesis remains largely unknown. In this work, we examined the role of the muscle-specific miRNAs miR-1 and miR-206 in human rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS), a soft tissue sarcoma thought to arise from skeletal muscle progenitors. We have shown that miR-1 was barely detectable in primary RMS of both the embryonal and alveolar subtypes and that both miR-1 and miR-206 failed to be induced in RMS cell lines upon serum deprivation. Moreover, reexpression of miR-206 in RMS cells promoted myogenic differentiation and blocked tumor growth in xenografted mice by switching the global mRNA expression profile to one that resembled mature muscle. Finally, we showed that the product of the MET proto-oncogene, the Met tyrosine-kinase receptor, which is overexpressed in RMS and has been implicated in RMS pathogenesis, was downregulated in murine satellite cells by miR-206 at the onset of normal myogenesis. Thus, failure of posttranscriptional modulation may underlie Met overexpression in RMS and other types of cancer. We propose that tissue-specific miRNAs such as miR-1 and miR-206, given their ability to modulate hundreds of transcripts and to act as nontoxic differentiating agents, may override the genomic heterogeneity of solid tumors and ultimately hold greater therapeutic potential than single gene-directed drugs.
PhyR is an unusual type of response regulator consisting of a receiver domain and an extracytoplasmic function (ECF) sigma factor-like domain. It was recently described as a master regulator of general stress response in Methylobacterium extorquens. Orthologues of this regulator are present in essentially all free-living Alphaproteobacteria. In most of them, phyR is genetically closely linked to a gene encoding an ECF sigma factor. Here, we investigate the role of these two regulators in the soybean symbiont Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110. Using deletion mutants and phenotypic assays, we showed that PhyR and the ECF sigma factor sigma(EcfG) are involved in heat shock and desiccation resistance upon carbon starvation. Both mutants had symbiotic defects on the plant hosts Glycine max (soybean) and Vigna radiata (mungbean). They induced fewer nodules than the wild type and these nodules were smaller, less pigmented, and their specific nitrogenase activity was drastically reduced 2 or 3 weeks after inoculation. Four weeks after infection, soybean nodule development caught up to a large extent whereas most mungbean nodules remained defective even 5 weeks after infection. Remarkably, both mutants triggered aberrant nodules on the different host plants with ectopically emerging roots. Microarray analysis revealed that PhyR and sigma(EcfG) control congruent regulons suggesting both regulators are part of the same signalling cascade. This finding was further substantiated by in vitro protein-protein interaction studies which are in line with a partner-switching mechanism controlling gene regulation triggered by phosphorylation of PhyR. The large number of genes of unknown function present in the PhyR/sigma(EcfG) regulon and the conspicuous symbiotic phenotype suggest that these regulators are involved in the Bradyrhizobium-legume interaction via yet undisclosed mechanisms.
Sinorhizobium fredii HH103 produces cyclic beta glucans (CG) composed of 18 to 24 glucose residues without or with 1-phosphoglycerol as the only substituent. The S. fredii HH103-Rifr cgs gene (formerly known as ndvB) was sequenced and mutated with the lacZ-gentamicin resistance cassette. Mutant SVQ562 did not produce CG, was immobile, and grew more slowly in the hypoosmotic GYM medium, but its survival in distilled water was equal to that of HH103-Rifr. Lipopolysaccharides and K-antigen polysaccharides produced by SVQ562 were not apparently altered. SVQ562 overproduced exopolysaccharides (EPS) and its exoA gene was transcribed at higher levels than in HH103-Rifr. In GYM medium, the EPS produced by SVQ562 was of higher molecular weight and carried higher levels of substituents than that produced by HH103-Rifr. The expression of the SVQ562 cgsColon, two colonslacZ fusion was influenced by the pH and the osmolarity of the growth medium. The S. fredii cgs mutants SVQ561 (carrying cgs::Omega) and SVQ562 only formed pseudonodules on Glycine max (determinate nodules) and on Glycyrrhiza uralensis (indeterminate nodules). Although nodulation factors were detected in SVQ561 cultures, none of the cgs mutants induced any macroscopic response in Vigna unguiculata roots. Thus, the nodulation process induced by S. fredii cgs mutants is aborted at earlier stages in V. unguiculata than in Glycine max.
In the present study attempts have been made to characterize urease expression in slow growing Bradyrhizobium strains TAL442 and MO5 which are endosymbionts of green gram (Vigna radiata (L.)Wilczek). It was found that urease activity in vegetative cells of both the strains was inducible unlike their fast growing counterparts. Mode of regulation in TAL442 was governed by presence of ammonia. Urease expression was also detectable in bacteroids of both the strains which was not influenced by presence of external nickel chloride in high concentration, a situation detrimental to the vegetative cells.
Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp., is an important warm-season legume grown primarily in the semi-arid tropics. The majority of cowpea is grown by subsistence farmers in West and Central sub-Saharan Africa, where its grain and leaves are valued as human food and its stover is used for animal forage. Like all crop plants, cowpea is subject to yield losses resulting from a variety of biotic and abiotic stresses. Among the important biotic constraints to cowpea production is parasitism by the root hemiparasitic weeds Striga gesnerioides (Willd.) [witchweed] and Alectra vogelii (Benth.). At least seven races of S. gesnerioides have been identified within the cowpea-growing regions of West Africa, based on host differential response and genetic diversity analysis. Several race-specific resistance genes have been identified and located to one of two linkage groups (LG1 and LG6) of the current cowpea genetic map. Molecular markers associated with race-specific resistance genes have been identified, and several sequence-confirmed amplified regions (SCARs) have been developed for use in marker-assisted selection and breeding strategies for rapid cowpea improvement. The mechanism of race-specific resistance in the cowpea-Striga interaction has also been examined, with several genes involved in phytohormone and general disease resistance signaling transduction observed to be differentially expressed in resistant and susceptible phenotypes. Results suggest that PR5 expression may be a useful marker of Striga infection, and that salicylic acid signaling appears to play a role in the cowpea-Striga interaction.
Full-length starch branching enzyme II (SBE, EC 2.4.1.18) cDNA from mungbean ( Vigna radiata L. cv. Tainan no. 5), VrsbeII, was cloned, characterized, and expressed as an active enzyme in Escherichia coli . Gene-specific primers first amplified an internal cDNA by reverse transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), followed by obtaining 5' and 3' fragments by RT-PCR and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). VrsbeII possesses a complete open reading frame (ORF) of 2571 bp, and the deduced polypeptide includes the common catalytic (beta/alpha)(8)-barrel domain and conserved regions of the alpha-amylase family. Phylogenetic analysis classified VrsbeII into SBE family A. Its partial 3D structure and functional features were predicted. VrsbeII has a shorter N-terminal among SBEs; however, two 6 bp (CCAGTT) direct repeat sequences (DRS) were found. A 24 bp shortened VrsbeII at the 3' end, skipping one DRS, was ligated into pET21b vector and expressed as His(6)-rVrSBEII in E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells. The optimal expression condition for rVrSBEII was evaluated and detected by Western blot with a molecular size of 108 kDa and activity of 6.4 U/mg.
Plant growth and productivity are adversely affected by various abiotic and biotic stress factors. Despite the wealth of information on abiotic stress and stress tolerance in plants, many aspects still remain unclear. Prosopis juliflora is a hardy plant reported to be tolerant to drought, salinity, extremes of soil pH, and heavy metal stress. In this paper, we report the isolation and characterization of the complementary DNA clone for an atypical late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) protein (Pj LEA3) and its putative promoter sequence from P. juliflora. Unlike typical LEA proteins, rich in glycine, Pj LEA3 has alanine as the most abundant amino acid followed by serine and shows an average negative hydropathy. Pj LEA3 is significantly different from other LEA proteins in the NCBI database and shows high similarity to indole-3 acetic-acid-induced protein ARG2 from Vigna radiata. Northern analysis for Pj LEA3 in P. juliflora leaves under 90 mM H2O2 stress revealed up-regulation of transcript at 24 and 48 h. A 1.5-kb fragment upstream the 5' UTR of this gene (putative promoter) was isolated and analyzed in silico. The possible reasons for changes in gene expression during stress in relation to the host plant's stress tolerance mechanisms are discussed.
The objective of this study was to examine the role of root carbohydrate levels and metabolism in the waterlogging tolerance of contrasting mung bean genotypes. An experiment was conducted with two cultivated mung bean (Vigna radiata) genotypes viz., T44 (tolerant) and Pusa Baisakhi (PB) (susceptible), and a wild Vigna species Vigna luteola under pot-culture to study the physiological and molecular mechanism of waterlogging tolerance. Waterlogging resulted in decrease in relative water content (RWC), membrane stability index (MSI) in root and leaf tissues, and chlorophyll (Chl) content in leaves, while the Chl a/b ratio increased. Waterlogging-induced decline in RWC, MSI, Chl and increase in Chl a/b ratio was greater in PB than V. luteola and T44. Waterlogging caused decline in total and non-reducing sugars in all the genotypes and reducing sugars in PB, while the content of reducing sugar increased in V. luteola and T44. The pattern of variation in reducing sugar content in the 3 genotypes was parallel to sucrose synthase (SS) activity. V. luteola and T44 also showed fewer declines in total and non-reducing sugars and greater increase in reducing sugar and SS activity than PB. Activity of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) increased up to 8d of waterlogging in V. luteola and T44, while in PB a marginal increase was observed only up to 4d of treatment. Gene expression studies done by RT-PCR in 24h waterlogged plants showed enhanced expression of ADH and SS in the roots of V. luteola and T44, while in PB there was no change in expression level in control or treated plants. PCR band products were cloned and sequenced, and partial cDNAs of 531, 626, and 667; 702, 736, and 744bp of SS and ADH, respectively were obtained. The partial cDNA sequences of cloned SS genes showed 93-100 homologies among different genotypes and with D10266, while in case of ADH the similarity was in the range of 97-100% amongst each other and with Z23170. The results suggest that the availability of sufficient sugar reserve in the roots, activity of SS to provide reducing sugars for glycolytic activity and ADH for the recycling of NADH, and for the continuation of glycolysis, could be one of the important mechanisms of waterlogging tolerance of V. radiata genotype T44 and wild species V. luteola. This was reflected in better RWC and Chl content in leaves, and membrane stability of leaf and root tissue in V. luteola and T44.
Cowpea is one of the important grain legumes. Storage pests, Callosobruchus maculatus and C. chinensis cause severe damage to the cowpea seeds during storage. We employ a highly efficient Agrobacterium-mediated cowpea transformation method for introduction of the bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) alpha-amylase inhibitor-1 (alphaAI-1) gene into a commercially important Indian cowpea cultivar, Pusa Komal and generated fertile transgenic plants. The use of constitutive expression of additional vir genes in resident pSB1 vector in Agrobacterium strain LBA4404, thiol compounds during cocultivation and a geneticin based selection system resulted in twofold increase in stable transformation frequency. Expression of alphaAI-1 gene under bean phytohemagglutinin promoter results in accumulation of alphaAI-1 in transgenic seeds. The transgenic protein was active as an inhibitor of porcine alpha-amylase in vitro. Transgenic cowpeas expressing alphaAI-1 strongly inhibited the development of C. maculatus and C. chinensis in insect bioassays.
By hypergravity treatment, the percentage of cells with transverse microtubules was decreased, while that with longitudinal microtubules was increased in azuki bean (Vigna angularis) epicotyls. The expression of genes encoding gamma-tubulin complex (VaTUG and VaGCP3) was increased transiently in response to changes in the gravitational conditions. Lanthanum and gadolinium ions, potential blockers of mechanosensitive calcium ion-permeable channels (mechanoreceptors), nullified reorientation of microtubules as well as up-regulation of expression of VaTUG and VaGCP3 by hypergravity. These results suggest that mechanoreceptors may perceive the gravity signal, which leads to a transient increase in the transcript levels of gamma-tubulin complex genes and reorientation of cortical microtubules.
We describe a novel system of exploiting the biolistic process to generate stable transgenic cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) plants. The system is based on combining the use of the herbicide imazapyr to select transformed meristematic cells after physical introduction of the mutated ahas gene (coding for a mutated acetohydroxyacid synthase, under control of the ahas 5' regulatory sequence) and a simple tissue culture protocol. The gus gene (under control of the act2 promoter) was used as a reporter gene. The transformation frequency (defined as the total number of putative transgenic plants divided by the total number of embryonic axes bombarded) was 0.90%. Southern analyses showed the presence of both ahas and gus expression cassettes in all primary transgenic plants, and demonstrated one to three integrated copies of the transgenes into the genome. The progenies (first and second generations) of all self-fertilized transgenic lines revealed the presence of the transgenes (gus and ahas) co-segregated in a Mendelian fashion. Western blot analysis revealed that the GUS protein expressed in the transgenic plants had the same mass and isoelectric point as the bacterial native protein. This is the first report of biolistic-mediated cowpea transformation in which fertile transgenic plants transferred the foreign genes to next generations following Mendelian laws.
A full-length cDNA denominated PvP5CS for Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS), an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of proline, was cloned from common bean using a candidate gene approach. PvP5CS contains an open reading frame encoding a 716 amino acid polypeptide. Sequence analysis showed that PvP5CS shares 95.1% homology in nucleotide sequence and 93.2% identity in amino acid sequence with the mothbean (Vigna aconitifolia) P5CS. The expression patterns of PvP5CS in common bean treated with drought, cold (4 degrees C), and salt (200 mM NaCl) stresses were examined using real-time quantitative PCR. These abiotic stresses caused significant up-regulation of the expression of PvP5CS in leaves. The PvP5CS mRNA transcript increased to 2.5 times the control level after 4d drought stress. A rapid up-regulation of PvP5CS, to about 16.3 times the control at 2h post-treatment was observed under salt stress. A significant increase in PvP5CS expression (11.7-fold) was detected after 2h of cold stress. The peaks of proline accumulation appeared at 8d for drought, 24h for cold and 9h for salt stress, somewhat later than the peaks of PvP5CS expression. These results suggest that PvP5CS was a stress-inducible gene regulating the accumulation of proline in plants subjected to stress. Finally, subcellular localization assays showed that the PvP5CS protein was present in the nucleus and at the plasmalemma.
Patatin-like genes have recently been cloned from several plant species and found to be involved in stress responses and development. In previous work, we have shown that a patatin-like gene encoding a galactolipid acyl hydrolase (EC 3.1.1.26) was stimulated by drought in the leaves of the tropical legume, Vigna unguiculata L. Walp. The aim of the present work was to study the expression of patatin-like genes in Arabidopsis thaliana under water deficit. Expression of six genes was studied by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction in leaves of plants submitted to progressive drought stress induced by withholding water and also in different plant organs. Three genes, designated AtPAT IIA, AtPAT IVC and AtPAT IIIA, were shown to be upregulated by water deficit but with different kinetics, while the other patatin-like genes were either constitutive or not expressed in leaves. The accumulation of transcripts of AtPAT IIA in the early stages of the drought treatment was coordinated with the upregulation of lipoxygenase and allene oxide synthase genes. AtPAT IIA expression was also induced by wounding and methyl jasmonate treatments. The in vitro lipolytic activity toward monogalactosyldiacylglycerol, digalactosyldiacylglycerol, phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylglycerol was confirmed by producing the recombinant protein ATPAT IIA in insect cells. The analysis of free fatty acid pools in drought-stressed leaves shows an increase in the relative amounts of trans-3-hexadecenoic acid at the beginning of the treatment followed by a progressive accumulation of linoleic and linolenic acids. The possible roles of AtPAT IIA in lipid signaling and membrane degradation under water deficit are discussed.
Root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.) are sedentary endoparasites with a broad host range which includes economically important crop species. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important food and fodder legume grown in many regions where root-knot nematodes are a major problem in production fields. Several sources of resistance to root-knot nematode have been identified in cowpea, including the widely used Rk gene. As part of a study to elucidate the mechanism of Rk-mediated resistance, the histological response to avirulent M. incognita feeding of a resistant cowpea cultivar CB46 was compared with a susceptible near-isogenic line (in CB46 background). Most root-knot nematode resistance mechanisms in host plants that have been examined induced a hypersensitive response (HR). However, there was no typical HR in resistant cowpea roots and nematodes were able to develop normal feeding sites similar to those in susceptible roots up to 9-14 d post inoculation (dpi). From 14-21 dpi giant cell deterioration was observed and the female nematodes showed arrested development and deterioration. Nematodes failed to reach maturity and did not initiate egg laying in resistant roots. These results confirmed that the induction of resistance is relatively late in this system. Typically in pathogen resistance HR is closely associated with an oxidative burst (OB) in infected tissue. The level of reactive oxygen species release in both compatible and incompatible reactions during early and late stages of infection was also quantified. Following a basal OB during early infection in both susceptible and resistant roots, which was also observed in mechanically wounded root tissues, no significant OB was detected up to 14 dpi, a profile consistent with the histological observations of a delayed resistance response. These results will be useful to design gene expression experiments to dissect Rk-mediated resistance at the molecular level.
Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp., is one of the most important food and forage legumes in the semi-arid tropics because of its drought tolerance and ability to grow on poor quality soils. Approximately 80% of cowpea production takes place in the dry savannahs of tropical West and Central Africa, mostly by poor subsistence farmers. Despite its economic and social importance in the developing world, cowpea remains to a large extent an underexploited crop. Among the major goals of cowpea breeding and improvement programs is the stacking of desirable agronomic traits, such as disease and pest resistance and response to abiotic stresses. Implementation of marker-assisted selection and breeding programs is severely limited by a paucity of trait-linked markers and a general lack of information on gene structure and organization. With a nuclear genome size estimated at ~620 Mb, the cowpea genome is an ideal target for reduced representation sequencing. We report here the sequencing and analysis of the gene-rich, hypomethylated portion of the cowpea genome selectively cloned by methylation filtration (MF) technology. Over 250,000 gene-space sequence reads (GSRs) with an average length of 610 bp were generated, yielding ~160 Mb of sequence information. The GSRs were assembled, annotated by BLAST homology searches of four public protein annotation databases and four plant proteomes (A. thaliana, M. truncatula, O. sativa, and P. trichocarpa), and analyzed using various domain and gene modeling tools. A total of 41,260 GSR assemblies and singletons were annotated, of which 19,786 have unique GenBank accession numbers. Within the GSR dataset, 29% of the sequences were annotated using the Arabidopsis Gene Ontology (GO) with the largest categories of assigned function being catalytic activity and metabolic processes, groups that include the majority of cellular enzymes and components of amino acid, carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. A total of 5,888 GSRs had homology to genes encoding transcription factors (TFs) and transcription associated factors (TAFs) representing about 5% of the total annotated sequences in the dataset. Sixty-two (62) of the 64 well-characterized plant transcription factor (TF) gene families are represented in the cowpea GSRs, and these families are of similar size and phylogenetic organization to those characterized in other plants. The cowpea GSRs also provides a rich source of genes involved in photoperiodic control, symbiosis, and defense-related responses. Comparisons to available databases revealed that about 74% of cowpea ESTs and 70% of all legume ESTs were represented in the GSR dataset. As approximately 12% of all GSRs contain an identifiable simple-sequence repeat, the dataset is a powerful resource for the design of microsatellite markers. The availability of extensive publicly available genomic data for cowpea, a non-model legume with significant importance in the developing world, represents a significant step forward in legume research. Not only does the gene space sequence enable the detailed analysis of gene structure, gene family organization and phylogenetic relationships within cowpea, but it also facilitates the characterization of syntenic relationships with other cultivated and model legumes, and will contribute to determining patterns of chromosomal evolution in the Leguminosae. The micro and macrosyntenic relationships detected between cowpea and other cultivated and model legumes should simplify the identification of informative markers for marker-assisted trait selection and map-based gene isolation necessary for cowpea improvement.
Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia whose cells express CD38 and ZAP-70 and utilize unmutated Ig VH region genes have a very poor prognosis. We studied whether cells expressing CD38 and ZAP-70 are more susceptible to stimulation through B-cell receptors than are cells that do not express CD38 and ZAP-70. CD38-positive and CD38-negative leukemic cells were separated from single cases and compared for their response to B-cell receptor cross-linking and ZAP-70 expression. Cohort studies were also carried out by measuring the apoptotic response to surface immunoglobulin M (IgM) cross-linking in 82 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and the protein tyrosine phosphorylation induced by surface IgM in 21 patients. CD38-positive cells, isolated from cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia classified as CD38-positive or CD38-negative, expressed more ZAP-70 than the corresponding CD38-negative cells, exhibited more robust protein tyrosine phosphorylation and had a greater tendency to apoptosis upon B-cell receptor cross-linking. In the cohort studies, surface IgM-induced protein tyrosine phosphorylation correlated significantly with CD38 and ZAP-70 expression and with the absence of Ig VH gene mutations. Apoptosis induced by surface IgM cross-linking correlated significantly only with the proportion of CD38-positive cells. Difficulties in finding more definitive correlations were probably related to imprecision in the in vitro test system and in the definition of cases as positive or negative. Collectively, these data indicate that CD38-positive, ZAP-70-positive cells have a greater capacity for signaling through the B-cell receptor and suggest a function for B-cell receptor signaling in promoting chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell expansion, especially within the CD38-positive fraction of the leukemic clone.
Hypergravity produced by centrifugation caused inhibition of elongation growth and a decrease in the cell wall extensibility in azuki bean epicotyls (Vigna angularis Ohwi et Ohashi). Also, hypergravity increased the molecular mass of xyloglucans, whereas it decreased xyloglucan-degrading activity in epicotyls. When the expression profiles of three xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase (XTH) genes, VaXTHS4, VaXTH1 and VaXTH2, were analyzed under hypergravity conditions, the expression of VaXTHS4, which shows only hydrolase activity, was downregulated in proportion to the logarithm of the magnitude of gravity (R = -0.94). However, the gene expression of VaXTH1 or VaXTH2, which shows only transglucosylase activity, was not affected by gravitational conditions. When the seedlings that had been grown at 1 g were transferred to hypergravity conditions at 300 g, the downregulation of VaXTHS4 expression was detected within 1 h. By removal of hypergravity stimulus, VaXTHS4 expression was increased within 1 h. These results suggest that azuki bean epicotyls promptly regulate the expression level of only VaXTHS4 in response to gravity stimuli. The regulation of xyloglucan-hydrolyzing activity as a result of changes in VaXTHS4 expression may be involved in the regulation by gravity of molecular mass of xyloglucans, leading to modifications of cell wall mechanical properties and cell elongation. Lanthanum and gadolinium, potential blockers of mechanosensitive calcium ion permeable channels (mechanoreceptors), nullified the suppression of VaXTHS4 expression, suggesting that mechanoreceptors are responsible for inhibition by hypergravity of VaXTHS4 expression.
Membranes are main targets of drought, and there is growing evidence for the involvement of membrane lipid in plant adaptation to such an environmental stress. Biosynthesis of the galactosylglycerolipids, monogalactosyl-diacylglycerol (MGDG) and digalactosyl-diacylglycerol (DGDG), which are the main components of chloroplast envelope and thylakoid membranes, could be important for plant tolerance to water deficit and for recovery after rehydration. In this study, galactolipid (GL) biosynthesis in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) leaves was analysed during drought stress and subsequent rewatering. Comparison of two cowpea cutivars, one drought tolerant and the other drought susceptible submitted to moderate drought stress, revealed patterns associated with water-deficit tolerance: increase in DGDG leaf content, stimulation of DGDG biosynthesis in terms of (14)C-acetate incorporation and messenger accumulation corresponding to four genes coding for GL synthases (MDG1, MGD2, DGD1 and DGD2). Similar to phosphate starvation, lack of water enhanced DGDG biosynthesis and it was hypothesized that the drought-induced DGDG accumulated in extrachloroplastic membranes, and thus contributes to plant tolerance to arid environments.
The apoplast is known to play a predominant role in the expression of manganese (Mn) toxicity in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) leaves. To unravel early Mn-toxicity responses after 1-3 days Mn treatment also in the leaf symplast, we studied the symplastic reactions induced by Mn in two cultivars differing in Mn tolerance on a total cellular level. Comparative proteome analyses of plants exposed to low or high Mn allowed to identify proteins specifically affected by Mn, particularly in the Mn-sensitive cowpea cultivar. These proteins are involved in CO(2) fixation, stabilization of the Mn cluster of the photosystem II, pathogenesis-response reactions and protein degradation. Chloroplastic proteins important for CO(2) fixation and photosynthesis were of lower abundance upon Mn stress suggesting scavenging of metabolic energy for a specific stress response. Transcriptome analyses supported these findings, but additionally revealed an upregulation of genes involved in signal transduction only in the Mn-sensitive cultivar. In conclusion, a coordinated interplay of apoplastic and symplastic reactions seems to be important during the Mn-stress response in cowpea.
The Mexican bean weevil, Zabrotes subfasciatus, feeds on several seeds such as Vigna unguiculata, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Pisum sativum, causing severe crop losses. This ability to obtain essential compounds from different diets could possibly be explained due to a wide variability of digestive proteinases present in the weevil's midgut. These may improve digestion of many different dietary proteins. Coleopteran serine-like proteinases have not been thoroughly characterized at the molecular level. In this report, a full-length cDNA encoding a trypsin-like protein, named ZsTRYP, was isolated from Z. subfasciatus larvae using RT-PCR, 5' and 3' RACE techniques. The quantitative real-time PCR analysis strongly correlated the Zstryp transcript accumulation to the major feeding developmental larval stage. Zstryp cDNA was subcloned into pET101 vector and expressed in a Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) strain. Nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) affinity chromatography was used to purify a 29.0-kDa recombinant enzyme. The purified ZsTRYP was then assayed with several synthetic peptide substrates and also challenged with different inhibitors. The biochemical data allowed us to classify ZsTRYP as a trypsin. Moreover, homology modeling analysis indicated a typical trypsin structural core and a conserved catalytic triad (His(41), Asp(86), and Ser(182)).
Homalodisca vitripennis Germar 1821 (Hemiptera: Cicadellidae) [Takiya et al. (2006) Ann Entomol Soc Am 99:648-655; syn. H. coagulata (Say)] salivary gland and gut EST libraries were used to isolate cDNA fragments of the gene transcripts encoding for cathepsin L, asparaginyl endopeptidase, cathepsin B, metalloendopeptidase, cathepsin D, multicatalytic endopeptidase, and a sugar-binding C-type lectin. Transcript levels were evaluated in immature and adult H. vitripennis feeding on sunflower (Helianthus annuus) or cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Northern blot hybridization results showed that expression of most of the transcripts were similar for all developmental stages and feeding on the two diets examined. However, the expression of the transcript for asparaginyl endopeptidase was less expressed in sunflower-fed adult females compared to sunflower-fed immatures. Also, the expression of the C-type lectin transcript was up-regulated in adults compared to immatures when fed on either diet. Documenting both the presence and variation of transcript expression involved in putative digestive proteolysis in this xylem-feeding leafhopper is noteworthy and aids efforts to design specific diet formulations for mass production of hosts and parasitoids to be used as effective biological control measures.
Two cDNAs of the enzyme glutathione reductase (GR; EC 1.6.4.2) encoding a dual-targeted isoform (dtGR) and a cytosolic isoform (cGR), were cloned from leaves of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). Moderate drought stress (Psi w=-1.5MPa) followed by re-watering was applied to common bean cultivars, one tolerant to drought (IPA), the other susceptible (Carioca) and to cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) cultivars, one tolerant to drought (EPACE-1), and the other susceptible (1183). mRNA levels were much higher for PvcGR than for PvdtGR in all cases. Moderate drought stress induced an up-regulation of the expression of PvcGR in the susceptible cultivars. On the contrary, PvdtGR expression decreased. In the tolerant cowpea EPACE-1, GR gene expression remained stable under drought. During recovery from drought, an up-regulation of the two GR isoforms occurred, with a peak at 6-10h after re-hydration. This suggests that moderate drought stress may lead to a hardening process and acclimation tolerance. The role of GR isoforms in plant tolerance and capacity to recover from drought stress is discussed.
Water deficit is one of the main abiotic factors that affect spring wheat planted in subtropical regions. Accumulation of proline appears to be a promising approach to maintain the productivity of plants under stress condition. However, morphological alterations and growth reduction are observed in transgenic plants carrying genes coding for osmoprotectants controlled by constitutive promoters. We report here the effects of water deficit on wheat plants transformed with the Vigna aconitifolia Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS) cDNA that encodes the key regulatory enzyme in proline biosynthesis, under the control of a stress-induced promoter complex-AIPC. Transgenic wheat plants submitted to 15 days of water shortage presented a distinct response. We have found that drought resulted in the accumulation of proline. The tolerance to water deficit observed in transgenic plants was mainly due to protection mechanisms against oxidative stress and not caused by osmotic adjustment.
Plant Ku genes were identified very recently in Arabidopsis thaliana, and their roles in repair of double-stranded break DNA and maintenance of telomere integrity were scrutinized. In this study, the cDNAs encoding Ku70 (VrKu70) and Ku80 (VrKu80) were isolated from mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) hypocotyls. Both genes were expressed widely among different tissues of mung bean with the highest levels in hypocotyls and leaves. The VrKu gene expression was stimulated by exogenous auxins in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The stimulation could be abolished by auxin transport inhibitors, N-(1-naphthyl) phthalamic acid and 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid implicating that exogenous auxins triggered the effects following their uptake by the cells. Further analysis using specific inhibitors of auxin signaling showed that the stimulation of VrKu expression by 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) was suppressed by intracellular Ca(2+) chelators, calmodulin antagonists, and calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase inhibitors, suggesting the involvement of calmodulin in the signaling pathway. On the other hand, exogenous indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and alpha-naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) stimulated VrKu expression through the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway. Altogether, it is thus proposed that 2,4-D and IAA (or NAA) regulate the expression of VrKu through two distinct pathways.
Using a combination of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis protein mapping and mass spectrometry analysis, we have established proteome reference maps of embryogenic cell suspensions of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). The cell suspensions were generated from young primary leaves and contained basically pro-embryogenic masses, which enabled us to dissect their proteome composition while eliminating the complexity of too many cell types. Over 550 proteins could reproducibly be resolved over a pI range of 3-10. A total of 128 of the most abundant protein spots were excised, digested in-gel with trypsin and analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry. This enabled the identification of 67 protein spots. Two of the most abundant proteins were identified as a chitinase and as a ribonuclease belonging to the family of PR-4 and PR-10 proteins, respectively. The expression of the respective genes was confirmed by RT-PCR and the pattern of deposition of the PR-10 protein in cell suspensions as well as in developing cowpea seeds, roots, shoots and flowers were determined by Western blot experiments, using synthetic antibodies raised against a 14-amino acid synthetic peptide located close to the C-terminal region of the PR-10 protein.
Pea albumin 1b (PA1b) is a small sulphur-rich peptide from pea seeds, also named leginsulin because of the binding characteristics of its soybean orthologue. Its insecticidal properties were discovered more recently. By using a combination of molecular, biochemical and specific insect bioassays on seed extracts, we characterised genes from numerous Papilionoideae, but not from Caesalpinioideae or Mimosoideae, although the last group harboured species with partially positive cues (homologous biological activities). The A1b defence peptide family, therefore, appears to have evolved relatively late in the legume lineage, maybe from the sophoroid group (e.g. Styphnolobium japonicum). However, unambiguous sequence information is restricted to a group of tribes within the subfamily Papilionoideae (Psoraleae, Millettieae, Desmodieae, Hedysareae, Phaseoleae, Vicieae, and the now clearly polyphyletic "Trifolieae" and "Galegeae"). Recent diversification by gene duplications has occurred in many species, or longer ago in some lineages (Medicago truncatula), as well as probable gene or expression losses at different taxonomic levels (Loteae, Vigna subterranea).
Lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) are antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) involved in the defense of plants against pathogens. Our group has previously characterized and purified a LTP from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) seeds which caused the inhibition of growth of fungal pathogens in vitro. The aim of this work was to obtain the cDNA encoding the cowpea LTP and after cloning, to use the cDNA as a probe for studying its expression profile during the development of cowpea seeds. In this work, the N-terminal sequence of the mature LTP peptide from cowpea was used to produce a degenerated oligonucleotide. This primer allowed the amplification of the LTP cDNA by RT-PCR from mRNA of cowpea seeds. The sequence analysis of the cloned cDNA, named VULTP, showed 494 bp which encoded a polypeptide of 91 amino acids. The deduced peptide presented high homology of similarity to plant LTPs of Vigna radiata var. radiate (94%), Prunus domestica (82%) and Zea mays (72%). The expression profile of the VULTP gene in cowpea was analyzed by Northern blot and revealed that the transcript is not accumulated in adult tissues. Conversely, VULTP mRNA is early and strongly accumulated during seed development. The results obtained to seedling of cowpea demonstrate that the VULTP gene presents differential expression in response to different stress. Further studies will be conducted to try to gain better understanding about the physiological role of this gene in cowpea.
Reactive oxygen species are frequently produced when plants are exposed to abiotic stresses. Among the detoxication systems, two enzymes, ascorbate peroxidase and glutathione reductase (GR) play key roles. GR has also a central role in keeping the reduced glutathione pool during stress thus allowing the adjustments on the cellular redox reactions. The aim of this work was to study the variations in cytosolic and dual-targeted GR gene expression in the leaves of cowpea plants submitted to progressive drought, rapid desiccation and application of exogenous abscisic acid (ABA). Two cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) cultivars, one drought-resistant ('EPACE-1'), the other drought-sensitive ('1183') were submitted to progressive drought stress by withholding irrigation. Cut-off leaves were air-dried or treated with exogenous ABA. Two GR cDNAs, one cytosolic, the other dual-targeted to chloroplasts and mitochondria were isolated by PCR and cloned in plasmid vectors. Reverse-transcription PCR was used to study the variations in GR gene expression. Two new cDNAs encoding a putative dual-targeted and a cytosolic GR were cloned and sequenced from leaves of V. unguiculata. Drought stress induced an up-regulation of the expression of the cytosolic GR gene directly related to the intensity of the stress in both cultivars. The expression of dual-targeted GR was up-regulated by the drought treatment in the susceptible cultivar only. Under a fast desiccation, the '1183' cultivar responded later than the 'EPACE-1', although in 'EPACE-1' it was the cytosolic isoform which responded and in '1183' the dual-targeted one. Exogenous ABA enhanced significantly the activity and expression levels of GR in both cultivars after treatment for 24 h. These results demonstrate a noticeable activation in both cultivars of the antioxidant metabolism under a progressive water stress, which involves both GR genes in the case of the susceptible cultivar. Under a fast desiccation, the susceptible cultivar responded later than the resistant one, suggesting a weaker capacity of response versus the resistant one. Exogenous ABA probably acts on GR gene expression via a mediated signal transduction pathway.
Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna (MYMV-Vig) is a bipartite geminivirus that causes a severe yellow mosaic disease in blackgram. An assay was developed to study MYMV-Vig replication by agroinoculation of tobacco leaf discs with partial dimers of the virus. This assay, in a non-host model plant, was used to evaluate pathogen-derived resistance contributed by MYMV-Vig genes in transgenic plants. Viral DNA accumulation was optimum in tobacco leaf discs cultured for 10 days after infection with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain Ach5 containing partial dimers of both DNA A and DNA B of MYMV-Vig. Transgenic tobacco plants with MYMV-Vig genes for coat protein (CP), replication-associated protein (Rep)-sense, Rep-antisense, truncated Rep (T-Rep), nuclear shuttle protein (NSP) and movement protein (MP) were generated. Leaf discs from transgenic tobacco plants, harbouring MYMV-Vig genes, were agroinoculated with partial dimers of MYMV-Vig and analyzed for viral DNA accumulation. The leaf discs from transgenic tobacco plants harbouring CP and MP genes supported the accumulation of higher levels of MYMV-Vig DNA. However, MYMV-Vig accumulation was inhibited in one transgenic plant harbouring the Rep-sense gene and in two plants harbouring the T-Rep gene. Northern analysis of these plants revealed a good correlation between expression of Rep or T-Rep genes and inhibition of MYMV-Vig accumulation.
Morphologically normal and fertile transgenic plants of mungbean with two transgenes, bar and alpha-amylase inhibitor, have been developed for the first time. Cotyledonary node explants were transformed by cocultivation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 harboring a binary vector pKSB that carried bialaphos resistance (bar) gene and Phaseolus vulgaris alpha-amylase inhibitor-1 (alphaAI-1) gene. Green transformed shoots were regenerated and rooted on medium containing phosphinothricin (PPT). Preculture and wounding of the explants, presence of acetosyringone and PPT-based selection of transformants played significant role in enhancing transformation frequency. Presence and expression of the bar gene in primary transformants was evidenced by PCR-Southern analysis and PPT leaf paint assay, respectively. Integration of the Phaseolus vulgaris alpha-amylase inhibitor gene was confirmed by Southern blot analysis. PCR analysis revealed inheritance of both the transgenes in most of the T(1) lines. Tolerance to herbicide was evidenced from seed germination test and chlorophenol red assay in T(1) plants. Transgenic plants could be recovered after 8-10 weeks of cocultivation with Agrobacterium. An overall transformation frequency of 1.51% was achieved.
We have previously demonstrated that vacuolar sorting receptor (VSR) proteins are concentrated on prevacuolar compartments (PVCs) in plant cells. PVCs in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells are multivesicular bodies (MVBs) as defined by VSR proteins and the BP-80 reporter, where the transmembrane domain (TMD) and cytoplasmic tail (CT) sequences of BP-80 are sufficient and specific for correct targeting of the reporter to PVCs. The genome of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains seven VSR proteins, but little is known about their individual subcellular localization and function. Here, we study the subcellular localization of the seven Arabidopsis VSR proteins (AtVSR1-7) based on the previously proven hypothesis that the TMD and CT sequences correctly target individual VSR to its final destination in transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells. Toward this goal, we have generated seven chimeric constructs containing signal peptide (sp) linked to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and TMD/CT sequences (sp-GFP-TMD/CT) of the seven individual AtVSR. Transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell lines expressing these seven sp-GFP-TMD-CT fusions all exhibited typical punctate signals colocalizing with VSR proteins by confocal immunofluorescence. In addition, wortmannin caused the GFP-marked prevacuolar organelles to form small vacuoles, and VSR antibodies labeled these enlarged MVBs in transgenic BY-2 cells. Wortmannin also caused VSR-marked PVCs to vacuolate in other cell types, including Arabidopsis, rice (Oryza sativa), pea (Pisum sativum), and mung bean (Vigna radiata). Therefore, the seven AtVSRs are localized to MVBs in tobacco BY-2 cells, and wortmannin-induced vacuolation of PVCs is a general response in plants.
Phospholipase D (PLD) is one of the main enzymes involved in signal transduction, vesicle trafficking and membrane metabolism processes. Here we describe the heterologous high-yield expression in the yeast Pichia pastoris, one-step purification and characterization of catalytically active PLDalpha from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp). Immunoblotting experiments showed that recombinant PLDalpha is recognized by a polyclonal antibody raised against native soybean PLDalpha. A single calcium-dependent octyl-Sepharose chromatography step was used to obtain a highly purified recombinant PLDalpha, as attested by gel electrophoresis, N-terminal amino acid sequence and mass spectrometry data. From 1L of yeast culture medium, about 8 mg of pure recombinant PLDalpha was obtained and the specific activity measured on phosphatidylcholine was 27 micromol/min/mg. Contrary to what was observed previously with Vigna unguiculata PLDalpha expressed in insect cells, no proteolytic degradation of the N-terminal calcium-dependent C2 lipid binding domain was observed here. This functional recombinant PLDalpha should provide a valuable tool for performing detailed studies on the molecular characterization of enzymes as well as structural studies.
Legume root nodule nitrogen-fixing activity is severely affected by osmotic stress. Proline accumulation has been shown to induce tolerance to salt stress, and transgenic plants over-expressing Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS), which accumulates high levels of proline, display enhanced osmotolerance. Here, we transformed the model legume Medicago truncatula with the P5CS gene from Vigna aconitifolia, and nodule activity was evaluated under osmotic stress in transgenic plants that showed high proline accumulation levels. Nitrogen fixation was significantly less affected by salt treatment compared to wild-type (WT) plants. To our knowledge, this is the first time that transgenic legumes have been produced that display nitrogen-fixing activity with enhanced tolerance to osmotic stress. We studied the expression of M. truncatula proline-related endogenous genes M. truncatulaDelta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase 1 (MtP5CS1), M. truncatulaDelta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase 2 (MtP5CS2), M. truncatula ornithine delta-aminotransferase (MtOAT), M. truncatula proline dehydrogenase (MtProDH) and a proline transporter gene in both WT and transgenic plants. Our results indicate that proline metabolism is finely regulated in response to osmotic stress in an organ-specific manner. The transgenic model allowed us to analyse some of the biochemical and molecular mechanisms that are activated in the nodule in response to high salt conditions, and to ascertain the essential role of proline in the maintenance of nitrogen-fixing activity under osmotic stress.
Interactions between legumes and rhizobia are controlled by the sequential exchange of symbiotic signals. Two different techniques, 2D-PAGE electrophoresis and differential display were used to study the effects of rhizobial signals on legume development. Application of variously substituted lipo-oligo-saccharidic Nod-factors to roots of Vigna unguiculata resulted in changes in the phosphorylation patterns of microsomal proteins. Reliable amino-acid sequences were obtained for one Nod-factor enhanced protein which was highly homologous to the 57-kDa subunit from Arabidopsis thaliana vacuolar membrane H(+)-ATPase. Immuno-blotting techniques demonstrated that Nod-factors cause rapid and massive increases of this enzyme in treated roots, suggesting that H(+)-ATPases play symbiotic roles. Concomitantly, we used differential display (DD) techniques on mRNA isolated from root-hairs to analyse early root responses to NGR234. Significant matches of several DD clones to known sequences were found. Clone D2.62 was homologous to a multitude of receptor kinases including S receptor-like kinases of A. thaliana and clone D4.1 showed similarities to Lotus japonicus phosphatidylinositol transfer-like protein III and late nodulin 16. Independent confirmatory analyses of these differentially expressed clones indicated expression at very low levels.
The alternative oxidase (Aox) was studied at different levels (transcript, protein and capacity) in response to an osmotic shock applied to roots of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Two cultivars of V. unguiculata were used, Vita 3 and Vita 5, tolerant and sensitive to drought/saline stress respectively. The seedlings (17-day-old) were grown in hydroponic conditions and submitted to NaCl (100 and 200 mM) or 200.67 g L(-1) PEG 6000 (iso-osmotic condition to 100 mM NaCl). The VuAox1 and VuAox2a mRNA were not detected in either cultivar under all tested conditions while the VuAox2b gene was differently expressed. In the tolerant cultivar (Vita 3), the expression of VuAox2b gene was stimulated by an osmotic stress induced by PEG which was associated with a higher amount and capacity of the Aox protein. In the same cultivar, this gene was under-expressed in salt stress conditions with poor effect on the protein level. In the sensitive cultivar (Vita 5), the transcript level of the VuAox2b was unchanged in response to PEG treatment, even though the protein and the capacity tended to increase. Upon salt stress, the VuAox2b gene was over-expressed. At 100mM NaCl, this VuAox2b gene over-expression led to a higher amount and capacity of Aox. This effect was reduced at 200 mM NaCl. Overall, these results suggest complex mechanisms (transcriptional, translational and post-translational) for Aox regulation in response to osmotic stress.
Wheat (Triticum aestivum L. var. DL 1266-5), sunflower (Helianthus annuus L. var. MSFH 17) and mungbean [Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek var. P 9072] were grown in field under atmospheric (360 +/- 10 cm3 m(-3), AC) and elevated (650 +/- 50 cm3 m(-3), EC) CO2 concentrations in open top chambers for entire period of growth and development. Photosynthetic acclimation to elevated CO2 was examined by comparing photosynthesis rate (Pn), Pn/Ci curves, leaf contents of RuBP carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco), change in the transcripts of Rubisco small subunit (SSU) gene and leaf carbohydrate constituents in AC and EC grown plants. The study indicated that photosynthetic acclimation to elevated CO2 concentration in wheat occurred because of down regulation of Rubisco, through limitation imposed on Rubisco SSU gene expression, as a consequence of sugar accumulation in the leaves. Leaf starch accumulators, sunflower and mungbean, showed no down regulation of Pn under EC. The Rubisco contents (%) in leaf soluble protein and rbcS transcript levels were not significantly affected in EC plants compared to AC plants of sunflower and mungbean. The study indicated that accumulation of excess assimilates in the leaves as starch was less inhibitory to Pn and would, therefore, be an important trait for sustenance of Pn not only under EC, but also under AC, where Pn inhibited by end products.
The MET oncogene was causally involved in the pathogenesis of a rare tumor, i.e., the papillary renal cell carcinoma, in which activating mutations, either germline or somatic, were identified. MET activating mutations are rarely found in other human tumors, whereas at higher frequencies, MET is amplified and/or overexpressed in sporadic tumors of specific histotypes, including osteosarcoma. In this work, we provide experimental evidence that overexpression of the MET oncogene causes and sustains the full-blown transformation of osteoblasts. Overexpression of MET, obtained by lentiviral vector-mediated gene transfer, resulted in the conversion of primary human osteoblasts into osteosarcoma cells, displaying the transformed phenotype in vitro and the distinguishing features of human osteosarcomas in vivo. These included atypical nuclei, aberrant mitoses, production of alkaline phosphatase, secretion of osteoid extracellular matrix, and striking neovascularization. Although with a lower tumorigenicity, this phenotype was superimposable to that observed after transfer of the MET gene activated by mutation. Both transformation and tumorigenesis were fully abrogated when MET expression was quenched by short-hairpin RNA or when signaling was impaired by a dominant-negative MET receptor. These data show that MET overexpression is oncogenic and that it is essential for the maintenance of the cancer phenotype.
Aluminium (Al) stimulates the efflux of citrate from apices of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) roots. This response is delayed at least 3 h when roots are exposed to 50 microm Al, indicating that some inducible processes leading to citrate efflux are involved. The physiological bases responsible for the delayed response were examined here. The effects of several antagonists of anion channels and citrate carriers, and of the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide (CHM) on Al-stimulated citrate efflux and/or citrate content were examined by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) or an enzymatic method. Both anion channel inhibitors and citrate carrier inhibitors can inhibit Al-stimulated citrate efflux, with anthracene-9-carboxylic acid (A-9-C, an anion channel inhibitor) and phenylisothiocyanate (PI, a citrate carrier inhibitor) the most effective inhibitors. A 6 h pulse of 50 microm Al induced a significant increase of citrate content in root apices and release of citrate. However, the increase in citrate content preceded the efflux. Furthermore, the release of citrate stimulated by the pulse treatment was inhibited by both A-9-C and PI, indicating the importance of the citrate carrier on the mitochondrial membrane and the anion channel on the plasma membrane for the Al-stimulated citrate efflux. CHM (20 microm) also significantly inhibited Al-stimulated citrate efflux, confirming that de novo protein synthesis is required for Al-stimulated citrate efflux. These results indicate that the activation of genes possibly encoding citrate transporters plays a critical role in Al-stimulated citrate efflux.
The conserved domains of reverse transcriptase (RT) genes of Ty1-copia and Ty3-gypsy groups of long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons were amplified from mungbean (Vigna radiata) genome using degenerate primers, cloned and sequenced. Among these 34% and 65% of respective clones of copia and gypsy RT sequences possessed stop codons or frame-shifts or both. The RT sequences corresponding to both the groups exhibit significant levels of heterogeneity. Presence of mungbean copia and gypsy RT sequences in other papilionoid legumes of the same (Phaseoleae) and different lineages (Loteae, Trifoleae, Cicereae) indicates existence of these elements prior to the radiation of papilionoid legumes and also supports the recent interpretations of close relationship between Phaseoleae and Loteae tribes of Papilionoideae subfamily. On the other hand significant homologies of some mungbean copia as well as gypsy RT sequences with those of unrelated plant species suggest their origin from different plant lineages and also that heterogeneous population of related elements were already existed throughout (even before the divergence of monocot and dicot) the evolution of these genera from their common ancestor.
A study of life-history traits was made to determine factors associated with the fitness of Meloidogyne incognita isolates virulent to resistance gene Rk in cowpea. Egg hatch, root penetration, egg mass production, and fecundity (eggs per egg mass) of avirulent and virulent phenotypes were compared among M. incognita isolates, isofemale lines, and single descent lines over multiple generations on resistant and susceptible cowpea. Variation (P </= 0.05) in both hatch and root penetration rates was found among isolates at a given generation. However, this variation was not consistent within nematode lines among generations, and there was no correlation with level of virulence, except for penetration and virulence on resistant cowpea at generation 20. Resistant and susceptible cowpea roots were penetrated at similar levels. Differences in reproductive factors on resistant plants were correlated with levels of virulence expression. In some isofemale lines, single descent lines, and isolates, lower (P </= 0.05) rates of egg mass production and fecundity on susceptible cowpea were associated with virulence to Rk, indicating a trade-off between reproductive fitness and virulence. Other virulent nematode lines from the same isolates did not have reduced reproductive ability on susceptible cowpea over 27 generations. Thus, virulent lineages varied in reproductive ability on susceptible cowpea, contributing to adaptation and maintenance of virulence within M. incognita populations under stabilizing selection.
We report the cloning and characterization in tobacco and Arabidopsis of a Vigna radiata L. (mung bean) promoter that controls the expression of VR-ACS1, an auxin-inducible ACC synthase gene. The VR-ACS1 promoter exhibits a very unusual behavior when studied in plants different from its original host, mung bean. GUS and luciferase in situ assays of transgenic plants containing VR-ACS1 promoter fusions show strong constitutive reporter gene expression throughout tobacco and Arabidopsis development. In vitro quantitative analyses show that transgenic plants harboring VR-ACS1 promoter-reporter constructs have on average 4-6 fold higher protein and activity levels of both reporter genes than plants transformed with comparable CaMV 35S promoter fusions. Similar transcript levels are present in VR-ACS1 and CaMV 35S promoter lines, suggesting that the high levels of gene product observed for the VR-ACS1 promoter are the combined result of transcriptional and translational activation. All tested deletion constructs retaining the core promoter region can drive strong constitutive promoter activity in transgenic plants. This is in contrast to mung bean, where expression of the native VR-ACS1 gene is almost undetectable in plants grown under normal conditions, but is rapidly and highly induced by a variety of stimuli. The constitutive behavior of the VR-ACS1 promoter in heterologous hosts is surprising, suggesting that the control mechanisms active in mung bean are impaired in tobacco and Arabidopsis. The 'aberrant' behavior of the VR-ACS1 promoter is further emphasized by its failure to respond to auxin and cycloheximide in heterologous hosts. VR-ACS1 promoter regulatory mechanisms seem to be different from all previously characterized auxin-inducible promoters.
Abiotic stresses stimulate formation of active oxygen species in plant tissues. Among antioxidant mechanisms, H2O2 detoxication by ascorbate peroxidases (APX) plays an important role. Several APX isoforms exist in plant cells, and they have rarely been studied separately. The aim of this work was to study changes in cytosolic, peroxisomal, stromatic and thylakoid APX gene expression in response to progressive drought, rapid desiccation and application of exogenous abscisic acid in the leaves of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) plants. Two cowpea (V. unguiculata) cultivars, 'EPACE-1' which is drought-tolerant and '1183'which is drought-sensitive, were submitted to drought stress by withholding irrigation. Detached leaves were air-dried or treated with exogenous abscisic acid. APX cDNAs were isolated by PCR and cloned in plasmid vectors. Changes in gene expression were studied using reverse-transcription PCR. Four new V. unguiculata cDNAs encoding putative cytosolic, peroxisomal and chloroplastic (stromatic and thylakoidal) APX were isolated and characterized. In response to the different treatments, higher increases in steady-state transcript levels of the cytoplasmic and peroxisomal APX genes were observed in '1183' compared with 'EPACE-1'. On the other hand, the expression of the chloroplastic APX genes was stimulated earlier in the tolerant cultivar when submitted to progressive drought. Water deficit induced differences in transcript accumulation of APX genes between the two cultivars that were related to their respective tolerance to drought. Chloroplastic APX genes responded early to progressive water deficit in the tolerant plant, suggesting a capacity to efficiently detoxify active oxygen species at their production site. The more sensitive '1183' was also able to respond to drought by activating its whole set of APX genes.
Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus) and Bradyrhizobium sp. (Vigna) mutants in which hydrogenase (hup) activity was affected were constructed and analyzed. Vigna unguiculata plants inoculated with the Bradyrhizobium sp. (Vigna) hup mutant showed reduced nitrogenase activity and also a significant decrease in nitrogen content, suggesting a relevant contribution of hydrogenase activity to plant yield.
Cowpeas are nutritious grains that provide the main source of protein, highly digestible energy and vitamins to some of the world's poorest people. The demand for cowpeas is high but yields remain critically low, largely because of insect pests. Cowpea germplasm contains little or no resistance to major insect pests and a gene technology approach to adding insect protection traits is now a high priority. We have adapted features of several legume and other transformation systems and reproducibly obtained transgenic cowpeas that obey Mendelian rules in transmitting the transgene to their progeny. Critical parameters in this transformation system include the choice of cotyledonary nodes from developing or mature seeds as explants and a tissue culture medium devoid of auxins in the early stages, but including the cytokinin BAP at low levels during shoot initiation and elongation. Addition of thiol-compounds during infection and co-culture with Agrobacterium and the choice of the bar gene for selection with phosphinothricin were also important. Transgenic cowpeas that transmit the transgenes to their progeny can be recovered at a rate of one fertile plant per thousand explants. These results pave the way for the introduction of new traits into cowpea and the first genes to be trialled will include those with potential to protect against insect pests.
Rhizobium (Sinorhizobium) sp. strain NGR234 contains three replicons, the smallest of which (pNGR234a) carries most symbiotic genes, including those required for nodulation and lipo-chito-oligosaccharide (Nod factor) biosynthesis. Activation of nod gene expression depends on plant-derived flavonoids, NodD transcriptional activators, and nod box promoter elements. Nod boxes NB6 and NB7 delimit six different types of genes, one of which (fixF) is essential for the formation of effective nodules on Vigna unguiculata. In vegetative culture, wild-type NGR234 produces a distinct, flavonoid-inducible lipopolysaccharide (LPS) that is not produced by the mutant (NGRomegafixF); this LPS is also found in nitrogen-fixing bacteroids isolated from V. unguiculata infected with NGR234. Electron microscopy showed that peribacteroid membrane formation is perturbed in nodule cells infected by the fixF mutant. LPSs were purified from free-living NGR234 cultured in the presence of apigenin. Structural analyses showed that the polysaccharide portions of these LPSs are specialized, rhamnose-containing O antigens attached to a modified core-lipid A carrier. The primary sequence of the O antigen is [-3)-alpha-L-Rhap-(1,3)-alpha-L-Rhap-(1,2)-alpha-L-Rhap-(1-]n, and the LPS core region lacks the acidic sugars commonly associated with the antigenic outer core of LPS from noninduced cells. This rhamnan O antigen, which is absent from noninduced cells, has the same primary sequence as the A-band O antigen of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, except that it is composed of L-rhamnose rather than the D-rhamnose characteristic of the latter. It is noteworthy that A-band LPS is selectively maintained on the P. aeruginosa cell surface during chronic cystic fibrosis lung infection, where it is associated with an increased duration of infection.
A heterogeneous population of cDNAs (designated Vupur3) encoding phosphoribosylglycinamide formyltransferase (GART; EC 2.1.2.2) was isolated from a cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) nodule library. Three classes of cDNA with the same ORF, but differing in their 3'-UTRs, were identified. Southern analysis and sequencing of genomic DNA confirmed that these differences result from alternative splicing of the primary transcript of a single Vupur3 gene. Alternative splicing does not appear to play a role in the production of soybean (Glycine max Merrill.) pur3 transcripts. The presence of the protein product of the Vupur3 gene, GART, in plastids and mitochondria was confirmed by immunoblotting with antibodies raised against the recombinant protein. The antibodies recognised two proteins with apparent molecular masses of 27 and 27.5 kDa in both mitochondria and plastids. All Vupur3 transcripts have two in-frame start codons that are active in wheatgerm in vitro transcription / translation experiments suggesting a mechanism by which the gene product could be targeted to two organelles. Like other genes encoding enzymes for purine synthesis, Vupur3 is expressed in nodules before nitrogen fixation begins but in contrast to these genes its expression does not increase markedly after nitrogen fixation begins.
Geminiviruses package circular single-stranded DNA and replicate in the nucleus via a double-stranded intermediate. This intermediate also serves as a template for bidirectional transcription by polymerase II. Here, we map promoters and transcripts and characterize regulatory proteins of Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna (MYMV), a bipartite geminivirus in the genus Begomovirus. The following new features, which might also apply to other begomoviruses, were revealed in MYMV. The leftward and rightward promoters on DNA-B share the transcription activator AC2-responsive region, which does not overlap the common region that is nearly identical in the two DNA components. The transcription unit for BC1 (movement protein) includes a conserved, leader-based intron. Besides negative-feedback regulation of its own leftward promoter on DNA-A, the replication protein AC1, in cooperation with AC2, synergistically transactivates the rightward promoter, which drives a dicistronic transcription unit for the coat protein AV1. AC2 and the replication enhancer AC3 are expressed from one dicistronic transcript driven by a strong promoter mapped within the upstream AC1 gene. Early and constitutive expression of AC2 is consistent with its essential dual function as an activator of viral transcription and a suppressor of silencing.
Regulation of gene expression represents a long-sought goal of gene therapy. However, most viral vectors pose constraints on the incorporation of drug-dependent transcriptional regulatory systems. Here, by optimizing the design of self-regulating lentiviral vectors based on the tetracycline system, we have been able to overcome the limitations of previously reported constructs and to reach both robust expression and efficient regulation from a single vector. The improved performance allows us to report for the first time effective long-term in vivo regulation of a human clotting Factor IX (hF.IX) transgene upon systemic administration of a single vector to SCID mice. We showed that hF.IX expression in the plasma could be expressed to therapeutically significant concentrations, adjusted to different set levels by varying the tetracycline dose, rapidly turned off and on, and completely recovered after each treatment cycle. The new vector design was versatile, as it successfully incorporated a tissue-specific promoter that selectively targeted regulated expression to hepatocytes. Robust transgene expression in the systemic circulation coupled to the ability to switch off and even adjust the expression level may open the way to safer gene-based delivery of therapeutics.
Bipartite geminiviruses encode a small protein, AC2, that functions as a transactivator of viral transcription and a suppressor of RNA silencing. A relationship between these two functions had not been investigated before. We characterized both of these functions for AC2 from Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna (MYMV). When transiently expressed in plant protoplasts, MYMV AC2 strongly transactivated the viral promoter; AC2 was detected in the nucleus, and a split nuclear localization signal (NLS) was mapped. In a model Nicotiana benthamiana plant, in which silencing can be triggered biolistically, AC2 reduced local silencing and prevented its systemic spread. Mutations in the AC2 NLS or Zn finger or deletion of its activator domain abolished both these effects, suggesting that suppression of silencing by AC2 requires transactivation of host suppressor(s). In line with this, in Arabidopsis protoplasts, MYMV AC2 or its homologue from African cassava mosaic geminivirus coactivated >30 components of the plant transcriptome, as detected with Affymetrix ATH1 GeneChips. Several corresponding promoters cloned from Arabidopsis were strongly induced by both AC2 proteins. These results suggest that silencing suppression and transcription activation by AC2 are functionally connected and that some of the AC2-inducible host genes discovered here may code for components of an endogenous network that controls silencing.
Transferring multiple genes into the same cell allows for the combination of genetic correction, marking, selection and conditional elimination of transduced cells or the reconstitution of multisubunit components and synergistic pathways. However, this cannot be reliably accomplished by current gene transfer technologies. Based on the finding that some cellular promoters intrinsically promote divergent transcription, we have developed synthetic bidirectional promoters that mediate coordinate transcription of two mRNAs in a ubiquitous or a tissue-specific manner. Lentiviral vectors incorporating the new promoters enabled efficient dual gene transfer in several tissues in vivo after direct delivery or transgenesis, and in a human gene therapy model. Because divergent gene pairs, likely transcribed from shared promoters, are common in the genome, the synthetic promoters that we developed may mimic a well-represented feature of transcription. Vectors incorporating these promoters should increase the power of gene function studies and expand the reach and safety of gene therapy.
Etiolated leaves of 28 degrees C-dark-grown mung bean (Vigna radiata L. cv. 2937) seedlings fail to turn green after being shifted to a light and cold environment. At the visible phenotypic level, incapability of leaf greening is the only failure event for the de-etiolation of mung bean seedlings at low temperature. Ultrastructural studies revealed that chloroplast development was completely suppressed by chilling treatment. A cDNA library originating from 28 degrees C-light-grown seedling leaves was constructed for screening cold-suppressed (cos) genes. Thirteen full-length cDNA clones were obtained, with 12 clones encoding chloroplast proteins, which, according to their known physiological functions, were important for chloroplast development and photosynthesis. Another cos cDNA encodes CYP90A2, which is a cytochrome P450 protein involved in the biosynthesis of brassinosteroid hormones. All cos genes are light-regulated at normal temperature. The influence of chilling stress on cos expression was examined in 10 degrees C-light- and 10 degrees C-dark-grown etiolated seedlings, and in 10 degrees C-light-grown green plants. The data show that cos expression in these three treatments is severely suppressed. This suppression is controlled at the transcriptional level, as demonstrated by nuclear runoff experiments, and is reversible because cos mRNAs accumulate again after the cold-treated plants have been transferred to 28 degrees C.
Cystatins are protein inhibitors of cystein proteinases belonging to the papain family. In cowpea, cystatin-like polypeptides and a cDNA have been identified from seeds and metabolic functions have been attributed to them. This paper describes VuC1, a new cystatin cDNA isolated from cowpea leaves (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.). Sequence analysis revealed a multicystatin structure with two cystatin-like domains. The recombinant VUC1 protein (rVUC1) was expressed in an heterologous expression system and purified to apparent homogeneity. It appeared to be an efficient inhibitor of papain activity on a chromogenic substrate. Polyclonal antibodies against rVUC1 were obtained. Involvement of the VuC1 cDNA in the cellular response to various abiotic stresses (progressive drought-stress, dessication and application of exogenous abscissic acid) was studied, using Northern blot and Western blot analysis, in the leaf tissues of cowpea plants corresponding to two cultivars with different capacity to tolerate drought-stress. Surprisingly, these abiotic stresses induced accumulation of two VuC1-like messages both translated into VUC1-like polypeptides. Difference in the transcript accumulation patterns was observed between the two cultivars and related to their respective tolerance level. Presence of multiple cystatin-like polypeptides and their possible involvement in the control of leaf protein degradation by cysteine proteinases is discussed.
Flavonoids secreted by host plants activate, in conjunction with the transcriptional activator NodD, nod gene expression of rhizobia resulting in the synthesis of Nod factors, which trigger nodule organogenesis. Interestingly, addition of inducing flavonoids also stimulates the production of the phytohormone indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) in several rhizobia. Here, the molecular basis of IAA synthesis in Rhizobium sp. NGR234 was investigated. Mass spectrometric analysis of culture supernatants indicated that NGR234 is capable of synthesizing IAA via three different pathways. The production of IAA is increased strongly by exposure of NGR234 to daidzein in a NodD1-, NodD2-, and SyrM2-dependent manner. This suggests that the y4wEFG locus that is downstream of nod-box NB15 encodes proteins involved in IAA synthesis. Knockout mutations in y4wE and y4wF abolished flavonoid-inducible IAA synthesis and a functional y4wF was required for constitutive IAA production. The promoter activity of NB15 and IAA production both were enhanced by introduction of a multicopy plasmid carrying nodD2 into NGR234. Surprisingly, the y4wE mutant still nodulated Vigna unguiculata and Tephrosia vogelii, although the nodules contained less IAA and IAA conjugates than those formed by the wild-type bacterium.
A cowpea (Vigna unguiculata cv. EPACE-1) aspartic proteinase (AP) gene was isolated by genomic Library screening. Sequence analysis shows that this AP gene follows the same pattern of intron/exon number and organization as the other isolated plant AP genes, which are distinct from other solved AP genes. Northern blot analysis revealed that cowpea AP accumulates in leaves and stems but not in roots, indicating tissue-specific expression. An increased accumulation of transcripts during senescence suggests enzyme involvement in this process.
Fluorescent proteins, such as green fluorescent protein and red fluorescent protein (DsRED), have become frequently used reporters in plant biology. However, their potential to monitor dynamic gene regulation is limited by their high stability. The recently made DsRED-E5 variant overcame this problem. DsRED-E5 changes its emission spectrum over time from green to red in a concentration independent manner. Therefore, the green to red fluorescence ratio indicates the age of the protein and can be used as a fluorescent timer to monitor dynamics of gene expression. Here, we analyzed the potential of DsRED-E5 as reporter in plant cells. We showed that in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) mesophyll protoplasts, DsRED-E5 changes its fluorescence in a way similar to animal cells. Moreover, the timing of this shift is suitable to study developmental processes in plants. To test whether DsRed-E5 can be used to monitor gene regulation in plant organs, we placed DsRED-E5 under the control of promoters that are either up- or down-regulated (MtACT4 and LeEXT1 promoters) or constitutively expressed (MtACT2 promoter) during root hair development in Medicago truncatula. Analysis of the fluorescence ratios clearly provided more accurate insight into the timing of promoter activity.
We have investigated in Sinorhizobium fredii HH103-1 (=HH103 Str(r)) the influence of the nolR gene on the production of three different bacterial symbiotic signals: Nod factors, signal responsive (SR) proteins, and exopolysaccharide (EPS). The presence of multiple copies of nolR (in plasmid pMUS675) repressed the transcription of all the flavonoid-inducible genes analyzed: nodA, nodD1, nolO, nolX, noeL, rhcJ, hesB, and y4pF. Inactivation of nolR (mutant SVQ517) or its overexpression (presence of pMUS675) altered the amount of Nod factors detected. Mutant SVQ517 produced Nod factors carrying N-methyl residues at the nonreducing N-acetyl-glucosamine, which never have been detected in S. fredii HH103. Plasmid pMUS675 increased the amounts of EPS produced by HH103-1 and SVQ517. The flavonoid genistein repressed EPS production of HH103-1 and SVQ517 but the presence of pMUS675 reduced this repression. The presence of plasmid pMUS675 clearly decreased the secretion of SR proteins. Inactivation, or overexpression, of nolR decreased the capacity of HH103 to nodulate Glycine max. However, HH103-1 and SVQ517 carrying plasmid pMUS675 showed enhanced nodulation capacity with Vigna unguiculata. The nolR gene was positively identified in all S. fredii strains investigated, S. xinjiangense CCBAU110, and S. saheli USDA4102. Apparently, S. teranga USDA4101 does not contain this gene.
Three isoforms of the cDNA of the major 8S globulin of mungbean, 8Salpha, 8Salpha', and 8Sbeta, were isolated, cloned, and characterized. The cDNA sequences of 8Salpha, 8Salpha', and 8Sbeta had open reading frames of 1362, 1359 or 1362, and 1359 bp, respectively, which code for 454, 453 or 454, and 453 amino acids corresponding to molecular weights of 51 973, 51 627 or 51 758, and 51 779, respectively. Homology in terms of cDNA and amino acid sequences was 91-92% between 8Salpha and 8Salpha', 87% between 8Salpha and 8Sbeta, and 86-88% between 8Salpha' and 8Sbeta. The signal peptide was found to be 1-25, 1-24 or 25, and 1-23 for 8Salpha, 8Salpha', and 8Sbeta, respectively, using the signalP website (Nielsen, H.; Engelbrecht, J.; Brunak, S.; von Heijne, G. Protein Eng. 1997, 10, 1-6). The propeptide was determined to be IVHREN. A single site for glycosylation (N-X-S/T) was observed about 90 amino acids from the C terminus. Homology between mungbean 8S isoforms and other 7-8S proteins ranged from 45 to 68% within members of the legume family and 29 to 34% for crops of different species. The major isoform 8Salpha was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified by successive ammonium sulfate fractionation, hydrophobic interaction, and Mono Q column chromatography. The recombinant 8Salpha, but not the native form, was successfully crystallized producing rhombohedral crystals.
Two full-length lipid transfer protein (LTP) cDNAs were isolated from mungbean (Vigna radiata) and designated Vrltp1 and Vrltp2. The deduced amino acid sequences contain the two highly conserved pentapeptides characteristic of plant LTPIs suggesting these Vrltps belong to the LTPI gene family. Vrltp1 mRNA was detected in developing seeds, but Vrltp2 mRNA was not. Within the vegetative tissues, the Vrltp1 and Vrltp2 mRNAs were present only in leaves and stems, but not root tips. Salt and dehydration stresses and exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) treatments resulted in increased mRNA levels of both Vrltps in leaves. We suggest that these unique Vrltps are specific to growing shoot tissues, and may play an important role in plant acclimation to water stress.
Asparaginyl endopeptidase is a cysteine endopeptidase that has strict substrate specificity toward the carboxyl side of asparagine residues, and is possibly involved in the post-translational processing of proproteins. In this report one full-length cDNA, SPAE, was isolated from senescent leaves of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam). SPAE contained 1479 nucleotides (492 amino acids) in the open reading frame, and exhibited high amino acid sequence homologies (c. 61-68%) with asparaginyl endopeptidases of Vicia sativa, Phaseolus vulgaris, Canavalia ensiformis, and Vigna mungo. SPAE probably encoded a putative precursor protein. Via cleavage of the N- and C-termini, it produced a mature protein containing 325 amino acids (from the 51st to the 375th amino acid residues), the conserved catalytic residues (the 173rd His and 215th Cys amino acid residues), and the putative N-glycosylation site (the 332nd Asn amino acid residue). Semi-quantitative RT-PCR and western blot hybridization showed that SPAE gene expression was enhanced significantly in natural senescent leaves and in dark- and ethephon-induced senescent leaves, but was much less in mature green leaves, stems, and roots. Phylogenic analysis showed that SPAE displayed close association with vacuolar processing enzymes (legumains/asparaginyl endopeptidases), which function via cleavage for proprotein maturation in the protein bodies during seed maturation and germination. In conclusion, sweet potato SPAE is probably a functional, senescence-associated gene and its mRNA and protein levels were significantly enhanced in natural and induced senescent leaves. The possible role and function of SPAE associated with bulk protein degradation and mobilization during leaf senescence were also discussed.
In tropical legumes like Glycine, Phaseolus and Vigna sp., ammonia as direct product of symbiotic nitrogen fixation is converted to ureides (allantoin and allantoic acid) and they were translocated to the shoots as nitrogen source. In the xylem sap of soybean in reproductive phase the ureides reached to 60-75% of soluble nitrogen. In nodules infected cells (plastid and mitochondria) and uninfected cells (peroxisome) shares de novo purine biosynthesis and urate oxidation to produce ureides respectively. Current research revealed unique feathers on this symbiotic metabolism, especially on regulation of purine biosynthesis, uricase gene expression and feedback inhibition of ureides to nitrogen fixing activity.
Auxin induces the expression of the two ethylene-biosynthetic genes VR-ACS6 and VR-ACS7 in etiolated mung bean hypocotyls. However, while it also enhances VR-ACS6 expression in light-grown tissues, it does not up-regulate VR-ACS7 expression in these tissues. Here we show that transfer of 3-day-old etiolated seedlings into light quickly reduced the auxin-induced expression of both genes. However, while auxin-induced VR-ACS6 expression recovered after 24 h of light, VR-ACS7 transcription continued to reduce and was almost completely absent at 36 h. Thus, light differentially modulates the expression of the auxin-inducible VR-ACS genes. In hormone-treated etiolated seedlings, VR-ACS7 was primarily induced in the rapidly elongating zones of hypocotyl and epicotyl tissues, while auxin-induced VR-ACS6 mRNA was evenly distributed throughout the whole seedling. VR-ACS7 promoter-driven beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity in auxin-treated etiolated transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings was observed in the highly elongating zones of the hypocotyl. During de-etiolation, the GUS activity gradually declined to become confined to the uppermost region of hypocotyls. In situ mRNA localization studies showed that in etiolated mung bean hypocotyls, the auxin-dependent VR-ACS7 transcript was predominantly present in the epidermis, which is the driving site for auxin-mediated elongation. Thus, it appears that the modulation by light of auxin-induced VR-ACS7 expression may correlate closely with the elongation growth response in early seedling development.
Phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC) catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate to generate inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol, both of which act as secondary messengers in animal cells. In this report, we identified in Vigna radiata L. (mung bean) three distinct partial cDNAs (pVr-PLC1, pVr-PLC2, and pVr-PLC3), which encode forms of putative PI-PLC. All three Vr-PLC genes were transcriptionally active and displayed unique patterns of expression. The Vr-PLC1 and Vr-PLC2 transcripts were constitutively expressed to varying degrees in every tissue of mung bean plants examined. In contrast, the Vr-PLC3 mRNA level was very low under normal growth conditions and was rapidly induced in an abscisic acid-independent manner under environmental stress conditions (drought and high salinity). An isolated genomic clone, about 8.2 kb in length, showed that Vr-PLC1 and Vr-PLC3 are in tandem array in the mung bean genome. The predicted primary sequence of Vr-PLC3 (M(r)=67.4 kDa) is reminiscent of the delta-isoform of animal enzymes which contain core sequences found in typical PI-PLCs, such as the catalytic domain comprising X and Y motifs, a lipid-binding C2 domain, and the less conserved EF-hand domain. Results of in vivo targeting experiment using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) showed that the GFP-Vr-PLC3 fusion protein was localized primarily to the plasma membrane of the Arabidopsis protoplast. The C2 domain was essential for Vr-PLC3 to be targeted to the plasma membrane. The possible biological functions of stress-responsive Vr-PLC3 in mung bean plants are discussed.
An iron-superoxide dismutase (FeSOD) with an unusual subcellular localization, VuFeSOD, has been purified from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) nodules and leaves. The enzyme has two identical subunits of 27 kD that are not covalently bound. Comparison of its N-terminal sequence (NVAGINLL) with the cDNA-derived amino acid sequence showed that VuFeSOD is synthesized as a precursor with seven additional amino acids. The mature protein was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant enzyme was used to generate a polyclonal monospecific antibody. Phylogenetic and immunological data demonstrate that there are at least two types of FeSODs in plants. An enzyme homologous to VuFeSOD is present in soybean (Glycine max) and common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) nodules but not in alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and pea (Pisum sativum) nodules. The latter two species also contain FeSODs in the leaves and nodules, but the enzymes are presumably localized to the chloroplasts and plastids. In contrast, immunoblots of the soluble nodule fraction and immunoelectron microscopy of cryo-processed nodule sections demonstrate that VuFeSOD is localized to the cytosol. Immunoblot analysis showed that the content of VuFeSOD protein increases in senescent nodules with active leghemoglobin degradation, suggesting a direct or indirect (free radical-mediated) role of the released Fe in enzyme induction. Therefore, contrary to the widely held view, FeSODs in plants are not restricted to the chloroplasts and may become an important defensive mechanism against the oxidative stress associated with senescence.
ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3 (EIN3) is a transcription factor involved in the ethylene signal transduction pathway in Arabidopsis. Two full-length cDNA clones, pVR-EIL1 and pVR-EIL2, encoding EIN3-LIKE proteins were isolated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and by screening the cDNA library of mung bean (Vigna radiata) hypocotyls. VR-EIL1 and VR-EIL2 share 70% identity and display varying degrees of sequence conservation (39%-65%) with previously isolated EIN3 homologs from Arabidopsis, tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) plants. Gel retardation assay revealed that both VR-EILs were able to interact specifically with optimal binding sequence-1, the recently identified optimal binding sequence for tobacco TEIL, with the binding of VR-EIL2 being more efficient than that of VR-EIL1. Transient expression analysis using a VR-EIL::smGFP fusion gene in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells indicated that the VR-EIL proteins were effectively targeted to the nucleus. The fusion protein of VR-EIL2 with GAL4 DNA-binding domain strongly activated transcription of a reporter gene in yeast cells, and an essential domain for transcription-stimulating activity was localized to the amino-terminal acidic region that consists of 50 amino acid residues. In contrast with what has been previously found in EIN3- and TEIL-overexpressing Arabidopsis plants, transgenic tobacco seedlings expressing the VR-EIL genes under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter did not exhibit a constitutive triple response. Instead, they displayed a markedly enhanced proliferation of root hairs, one of the typical ethylene response phenotypes, and increased sensitivity to exogenous ethylene. In addition, the pathogenesis-related (PR) genes encoding beta-1,3-glucanase, osmotin, and PR1 were constitutively expressed in 35S::VR-EIL lines without added ethylene, and were hyperinduced in response to ethylene treatment. These results indicate that VR-EILs are functional in tobacco cells, thereby effectively transactivating the GCC-box-containing PR genes and enhancing sensitivity to ethylene. The possible physiological role of VR-EILs is discussed in the light of the suggestion that they are active components of the ethylene-signaling pathway and their heterologous expressions constitutively turn on a subset of ethylene responses in tobacco plants.
Vigna mungo is one of the large-seeded grain legumes that has not yet been transformed. We report here for the first time the production of morphologically normal and fertile transgenic plants from cotyledonary-node explants inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens carrying binary vector pCAMBIA2301, the latter of which contains a neomycin phosphotransferase ( nptII) gene and a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene ( uidA) interrupted with an intron. The transformed green shoots, selected and rooted on medium containing kanamycin, tested positive for nptII and uidA genes by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. These shoots were established in soil and grown to maturity to collect the seeds. Mechanical wounding of the explants prior to inoculation with Agrobacterium, time lag in regeneration due to removal of the cotyledons from explants and a second round of selection at the rooting stage were found to be critical for transformation. Analysis of T(0) plants showed the expression and integration of uidA into the plant genome. GUS activity in leaves, roots, flowers, anthers and pollen grains was detected by histochemical assay. PCR analysis of T(1) progeny revealed a Mendelian transgene inheritance pattern. The transformation frequency was 1%, and 6-8 weeks were required for the generation of transgenics.
DNA polymerase eta (Pol eta) is a member of a new class of DNA polymerases that is able to copy DNA containing damaged nucleotides. These polymerases are highly error-prone during copying of unaltered DNA templates. We analyzed the relationship between bypass efficiency and fidelity of DNA synthesis by introducing substitutions for Tyr-52, a highly conserved amino acid, within the human DNA polymerase eta (hPol eta) finger domain. Most substitutions for Tyr-52 caused reduction in bypass of UV-associated damage, measured by the ability to rescue the viability of UV-sensitive yeast cells at a high UV dose. For most mutants, the reduction in bypass ability paralleled the reduction in polymerization activity. Interestingly, the hPol eta Y52E mutant exhibited a greater reduction in bypass efficiency than polymerization activity. The reduction in bypass efficiency was accompanied by an up to 11-fold increase in the incorporation of complementary nucleotides relative to non-complementary nucleotides. The fidelity of DNA synthesis, measured by copying a gapped M13 DNA template in vitro, was also enhanced as much as 15-fold; the enhancement resulted from a decrease in transitions, which were relatively frequent, and a large decrease in transversions. Our demonstration that an amino acid substitution within the active site enhances the fidelity of DNA synthesis by hPol eta, one of the most inaccurate of DNA polymerases, supports the hypothesis that even error-prone DNA polymerases function in base selection.
The regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) levels is achieved in part by high-capacity vacuolar Ca(2+)/H(+) antiporters. An N-terminal regulatory region (NRR) on the Arabidopsis Ca(2+)/H(+) antiporter CAX1 (cation exchanger 1) has been shown previously to regulate Ca(2+) transport by a mechanism of N-terminal auto-inhibition. Here, we examine the regulation of other CAX transporters, both within Arabidopsis and from another plant, mung bean (Vigna radiata), to ascertain if this mechanism is commonly used among Ca(2+)/H(+) antiporters. Biochemical analysis of mung bean VCAX1 expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) showed that N-terminal truncated VCAX1 had approximately 70% greater antiport activity compared with full-length VCAX1. A synthetic peptide corresponding to the NRR of CAX1, which can strongly inhibit Ca(2+) transport by CAX1, could not dramatically inhibit Ca(2+) transport by truncated VCAX1. The N terminus of Arabidopsis CAX3 was also shown to contain an NRR. Additions of either the CAX3 or VCAX1 regulatory regions to the N terminus of an N-terminal truncated CAX1 failed to inhibit CAX1 activity. When fused to N-terminal truncated CAX1, both the CAX3 and VCAX1 regulatory regions could only auto-inhibit CAX1 after mutagenesis of specific amino acids within this NRR region. These findings demonstrate that N-terminal regulation is present in other plant CAX transporters, and suggest distinct regulatory features among these transporters.
The glycosylated forms of abscisic acid (ABA) have been identified from many plant species and are known to be the forms of ABA-catabolism, although their (physiological) roles have not yet been elucidated. ABA-glucosyltransferase (-GTase) is thought to play a key role in the glycosylation of ABA. We isolated an ABA-inducible GTase gene from UDP-GTase homologs obtained from adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) seedlings. The deduced amino acid sequence (accession no. AB065190) showed 30% to 44% identity with the known UDP-GTase homologs. The recombinant protein with a glutathione S-transferase-tag was expressed in Escherichia coli and showed enzymatic activity in an ABA-specific manner. The enzymatic activity was detected over a wide pH range from 5.0 to 9.0, the optimum range being between pH 6.0 and 7.3, in a citrate and Tris-HCl buffer. The product from racemic ABA and UDP-D-glucose was identified to be ABA-GE by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. The recombinant GTase (rAOG) converted 2-trans-(+)-ABA better than (+)-S-ABA and (-)-R-ABA. Although trans-cinnamic acid was slightly converted to its conjugate by the GTase, (-)-PA was not at all. The mRNA level was increased by ABA application or by water stress and wounding. We suggest that the gene encodes an ABA-specific GTase and that its expression is regulated by environmental stress.
Root systems of 28-d-old cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp cv Vita 3: Bradyrhizobium sp. strain CB756) plants bearing nitrogen-fixing nodules in sand culture were exposed to an atmosphere of Ar:O(2) (80:20, v/v) for 48 h and then returned to air. Root systems of control plants were maintained in air throughout. Nodules were harvested at the same times in control and Ar:O(2)-treated root systems. Activities of two enzymes of de novo purine synthesis, glycinamide ribonucleotide transformylase (GART; EC 2.1.2.2), aminoimidazole ribonucleotide synthetase (AIRS; EC 6.3.3.1), uricase (EC 1.7.3.3), and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC; EC 4.1.1.31) were measured together with the protein level of each using immune-specific polyclonal antibodies. AIRS activity and protein both declined to very low levels within 6 h in Ar:O(2) together with a decline in transcript level of pur5, the encoding gene. GART activity, protein, and transcript (pur3) levels were relatively stable. Uricase activity declined in Ar:O(2) as rapidly as AIRS activity but the protein was stable. PEPC activity showed evidence of increased sensitivity to inhibition by malate but the protein level was stable. The data indicate that the flux of fixed N from bacteroids (N(2)-fixing nodule bacteria) is in some way associated with transcriptional control over pur5 and possibly also catabolism of AIRS protein. In contrast, there is limited posttranslational control over GART and PEPC and close posttranslational control over uricase activity. The significance of these different levels of regulation is discussed in relation to the overall control of enhanced expression of plant enzymes in the cowpea symbiosis.
Legume nodules formed by diazotrophic microorganisms are active sites for biological nitrogen fixation (BNF). In tropical regions, a significant part of N supply for soybean, peanut and bean crops is derived from BNF, which is nevertheless often limited by high temperature stress. In contrast, cowpea nodules are very resistant to high temperatures. To understand the molecular bases of thermotolerance during BNF under heat stress, we have used cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism experiments to identify differentially expressed transcripts from cowpea nodules subjected to heat shock treatment. The expression profiles obtained showed approximately 600 bands, 55 up-regulated and nine corresponding to genes repressed by heat stress. Twenty transcript-derived fragments were isolated, cloned and sequenced. The Vigna unguiculata nodule and stress response transcripts present similarities to those that encode low molecular weight heat shock proteins, wound-induced proteins, disease resistance protein, and xylan endohydrolase isoenzyme, as well as different housekeeping genes. The differential expression of 15 genes was confirmed by using Northern blot or reverse Northern hybridization experiments.
We developed a panel of lentiviral vectors that displayed tetracycline-regulated transgene expression over two orders of magnitude in bulk, non-selected populations of transduced cells in vitro and in vivo. The robust expression and homogeneous response indicated that most transduced vector genomes were transcription competent and responsive to regulation, providing the lentiviral vector with a novel competitive advantage for gene transfer. After ex vivo transduction and transplantation of cord blood CD34+ cells into NOD/SCID mice, reporter gene expression could be switched "on" and "off" in human hematopoietic cells in vivo for prolonged times, proving integration of the regulated expression system into long-term repopulating cells. By vector injection into established tumor grafts, we achieved efficient delivery and quantitative regulation of transgene expression in vivo. By these approaches, gene function studies can now be performed in in vivo models of human hematopoiesis and cancer. In the future, regulated lentiviral vectors will improve the safety and efficacy of gene therapy.
Additive, dominance, and epistasis genetic basis of seed yield per plant, number of pods per plant, number of seeds per pod, and 1000 seed weight in mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) have been examined, using Triple Test Cross (TTC) analysis. The material for TTC test was evaluated in two seasons i.e., kharif (July-October) and spring/summer (March-June), at the research station of the Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology (NIAB), Faisalabad, Pakistan. Epistasis was present significantly for number of pods per plant and number of seeds per pod when grown in the spring/summer season (March to June). Partition of epistasis showed that additive x additive ('i' type) interaction was an important component of number of pods per plant, and number of seeds per pod was found to be of both types 'i' type, and additive x dominance, and dominance x dominance ('j' and 'l' type) interactions. This indicated that epistasis might be a non-trivial factor in the inheritance of pods per plant, and seeds per pod in mungbean. The expression of epistasis was influenced differentially by particular genotypes, indicating that a limited number of genotypes may not be sufficient to detect non-allelic interactions for a trait in mungbean. Additive and dominance genetic components were significant for all four traits in kharif season (July to October) but only for seed yield and 1000 seed weight in spring/summer season. This suggests that the genes controlling seed yield per plant, and 1000 seed weight are equally sensitive to the environment. The predominance additive gene action in those traits is not significantly influenced by epistasis, suggesting that improvement of the traits can be achieved through standard selection procedures.
Seeds stored under adverse conditions will reduce the viability of germination as a result of induced aging. We have established a procedure to induce accelerated aging for studying the process of aging in mung bean (Vigna radiata) seeds at the molecular level. A full-length cDNA was isolated from acceleratedly aged mung bean seedlings. The cDNA, VrRH1 (Vigna radiata RNA helicase 1), contains an open reading frame of 2139 bp encoding a protein of 713 amino acids. VrRHI has seven highly conserved motifs including the DEAD box as in the case of other plant RNA helicases. VrRHI was sub-cloned into an expression vector pET-28b (+), over-expressed in Escherichia coli BL 21 and purified by a Ni2+-agarose column. The expressed protein showed double-stranded RNA unwinding and ATPase activities. Either ATP or dATP is required for the unwinding activity, indicating that VrRHI is an ATP/dATP-dependent RNA helicase. Northern blot analysis showed the presence of mRNAs hybridized with a full-length cDNA fragment of VrRHI (VrRH transcripts) in mung bean seeds that were imbibed for 16 to 32 h after accelerated aging treatment. The amount of these mRNAs reached a maximum in 24 h imbibed seeds after the treatment. The accumulation of VrRH transcripts was shown to lead to the appearance of 25S and 18S rRNAs in the imbibed aging mung bean seeds. The results suggest that VrRHI may play a role in the viability of mung bean seeds.
Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Vigna radiata L. Wilczek has been achieved. Hypocotyl and primary leaves excised from 2-day-old in-vitro grown seedlings produced transgenic calli on B(5) basal medium supplemented with 5x10(-6) M BAP, 2.5x10(-6) M each of 2,4-D and NAA and 50 mg l(-1) kanamycin after co-cultivation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains, LBA4404 (pTOK233), EHA105 (pBin9GusInt) and C58C1 (pIG121Hm) all containing beta-glucuronidase (gusA) and neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) marker genes. Transformed calli were found resistant to kanamycin up to 1000 mg(.)l(-1). Gene expression of kanamycin resistance (nptII) and gusA in transformed calli was demonstrated by nptII assay and GUS histochemical analysis, respectively. Stable integration of T-DNA into the genome of transformed calli of mungbean was confirmed by Southern blot analysis. Transgenic calli could not regenerate shoots on B(5) or B(5) containing different cytokinins or auxins alone or in combination. However, for the first time, transformed green shoots showing strong GUS activity were regenerated directly from cotyledonary node explants cultured after co-cultivation with LBA4404 (pTOK233) on B(5) medium containing 6-benzylaminopurine (5x10(-7) M) and 75 mg l(-1) kanamycin. The putative transformed shoots were rooted on B(5)+indole-3-butyric acid (5x10(-6) M) within 10-14 days and resulted plantlets subsequently developed flowers and pods with viable seeds in vitro after 20 days of root induction. The stamens, pollen grains and T(0) seeds showed GUS activity. Molecular analysis of putative transformed plants revealed the integration and expression of transgenes in T(0) plants and their seeds.
Alpha-amylase is expressed at high levels in cotyledons of germinated seeds of Vigna mungo. The mRNA for alpha-amylase appeared in cotyledons of the seeds at 1 d after imbibition started (DAI). Two TGACGT motifs at -445 and at -125 in the promoter region of the gene interacted with nuclear proteins from cotyledons of dry seeds and the activities were detected until 3 DAI. A transient assay with particle bombardment showed that the downstream region from -135 in the promoter was required for high level expression in the cotyledons and the activity was reduced by mutation of the TGACGT motif at -125. The activities to bind the TGACGT motifs were detected in the axes of the seeds at 1 DAI but disappeared at 4 DAI, although the mRNA for alpha-amylase in the axes appeared at 4 DAI and increased in level by 6 DAI. A transient assay experiment showed that a positive regulatory element for the expression in the axes was located in the region from -630 to -453. These results indicated that the TGACGT motif at -125 was required for high level expression of the gene in the cotyledons of the germinated seeds.
Agrobacterium mediated transformation of Vigna sesquipedalis was achieved using cotyledonary node explants prepared from 5 days old seedlings germinated on B5 basal medium, and transformed using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA101, carrying the phosphinothricin-N-acetyltransferase gene and neomycin-3-phosphotransferase-II gene as selectable markers and GUS gene as a screenable marker. Gene transfer was achieved by inoculation of cotyledonary node explants with a bacterial suspension and a further cocultivation with Agrobacterium suspension for 3 days on B5 basal medium. Only 10% of the explants were transformed with EHA101 and exhibited transient expression of GUS genes, while 2% of shoots exhibited stable integration of genes and developed into plants. Transgenic character of tissues was confirmed by GUS assay and Southern analysis. Histological analysis of GUS gene expression directly after cocultivation revealed a high competence of subepidermal cell layers of cotyledonary node and associated cotyledons for transformation with Agrobacterium.
Four cultivars of related species, common bean and cowpea, which exhibit different degrees of drought resistance, were submitted to water stress by withholding irrigation. Drought induced an increase in endoproteolytic activity, being higher in susceptible cultivars (bean) than in tolerant ones (cowpea). An aspartic protease activity was found to be strongly induced especially in bean. From a cowpea leaf cDNA library, a full length aspartic protease precursor cDNA was obtained. Transcript accumulation in response to water stress indicated that the expression of the gene was constitutive in cowpea and transcriptionally up-regulated in bean. The results showed that drought-tolerant and drought-susceptible bean plants differ regarding aspartic protease precursor gene expression.
A cDNA (Vupat1) encoding a predicted 43 kDa protein was isolated from drought-stressed cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) leaves. It has homology with patatin, a potato tuber storage protein with lipolytic acyl hydrolase activity. The recombinant protein VUPAT1 expressed in the baculovirus system displays preferentially galactolipid acyl hydrolase activity. Phospholipids are very slowly hydrolyzed and apparently triacylglycerols are not deacylated. Vupat1 promoter contains putative drought-inducible sequences. Northern blots showed that gene expression is stimulated by drought stress and is more pronounced in a drought-sensitive cultivar than in a drought-tolerant one. An involvement in drought-induced galactolipid degradation is proposed for VUPAT1.
Two cDNAs encoding putative phosphatidate phosphatases (PAPs) designated VuPAP-alpha and VuPAP-beta were cloned in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) leaves. The predicted proteins have six membrane-spanning regions in common with animal type-2 PAPs. Unlike VuPAP-beta, VuPAP-alpha has an N-terminal transit peptide and is targeted in vitro to the chloroplasts. Gene expression of VuPAP-beta is stimulated by rapid air-desiccation of leaves and VuPAP-alpha transcripts increase during rehydration of plants exposed to drought-like conditions.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is a potent paracrine mediator of stromal/epithelial interactions, which is secreted as a matrix-associated inactive precursor (pro-HGF) and locally activated by tightly controlled urokinase cleavage. It induces proliferation and motility in epithelial and endothelial cells, and plays a role in physiological and pathological processes involving invasive cell growth, such as angiogenesis and parenchymal regeneration. We now report that HGF induces directional migration and cytokine secretion in human monocytes. Monocyte activation by endotoxin and IL-1beta results in the up-regulation of the HGF receptor expression and in the induction of cell-associated pro-HGF convertase activity, thus enhancing cell responsiveness to the factor. Furthermore, we provide evidence for the secretion of biologically active HGF by activated monocytes, implying an autocrine stimulation. Altogether, these data indicate that monocyte function is modulated by HGF in a paracrine/autocrine manner, and provide a new link between stromal environment and mononuclear phagocytes.
Cultivated and wild species of the genus Vigna were screened for their flavonoid content. Flavonoid HPLC analyses clearly showed that cultivated lines of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) are very similar from a qualitative point of view, always showing three flavonoid aglycons: quercetin, kaempferol, and isorhamnetin. In addition, a positive relationship between resistance/susceptibility characteristics against aphids and flavonoid glycoside content of cowpea lines was found. The resistant lines showed a flavonoid content higher than that of susceptible ones. In vitro bioassays proved that, among endogenous flavonoids, quercetin and isorhamnetin possess a good inhibitory aphid reproduction rate. Flavonoid HPLC analyses of wild Vigna species supported evidence for the existence of different flavonoid chemotypes in some species of section Vigna. There are kaempferol chemotypes, kaempferol being the main aglycon detected, quercetin chemotypes, containing quercetin glycosides only, and two isorhamnetin chemotypes. When the resistance characteristics to aphids in different chemotypes of the same species were tested, it became evident that quercetin or isorhamnetin chemotypes showed a higher level of resistance compared to kaempferol chemotypes in the same species, thus demonstrating a direct involvement of quercetin or isorhamnetin in the resistance mechanism. These results can provide useful information for further studies on gene expression of resistance factors.
Lentiviral vectors are tools for gene transfer derived from lentiviruses. From their first application to now they have been strongly developed in design, in biosafety and in their ability of transgene expression into target cells. Primate and non-primate derived lentiviral vectors are now available and with both types of systems a lot of studies tuned to improve their performances in a large number of tissues are ongoing. Here we review the state of the art of lentiviral vector systems discussing their potential for gene therapy.
Four cDNA clones named CPRD (cowpea responsive to dehydration) corresponding to genes that are responsive to dehydration were isolated using differential screening of a cDNA library prepared from 10-h dehydrated drought-tolerant cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) plants. One of the cDNA clones has a homology to 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (named VuNCED1), which is supposed to be involved in abscisic acid (ABA) biosynthesis. The GST (glutathione S-transferase)-fused protein indicates a 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase activity, which catalyzes the cleavage of 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid. The N-terminal region of the VuNCED1 protein directed the fused sGFP (synthetic green-fluorescent protein) into the plastids of the protoplasts, indicating that the N-terminal sequence acts as a transit peptide. Both the accumulation of ABA and expression of VuNCED1 were strongly induced by drought stress in the 8-d-old cowpea plant, whereas drought stress did not trigger the expression of VuABA1 (accession no. AB030295) gene that encodes zeaxanthin epoxidase. These results indicate that the VuNCED1 cDNA encodes a 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase and that its product has a key role in the synthesis of ABA under drought stress.
We have identified and characterized protein factors from mung bean (Vigna radiata) nuclear extracts that specifically bind the single-stranded G-rich telomeric DNA repeats. Nuclear extracts were prepared from three different types of plant tissue, radicle, hypocotyl, and root, in order to examine changes in the expression patterns of telomere-binding proteins during the development of mung bean. At least three types of specific complexes (A, B, and C) were detected by gel retardation assays with synthetic telomere and nuclear extract from radicle tissue, whereas the two major faster-migrating complexes (A and B) were formed with nuclear extracts from hypocotyl and root tissues. Gel retardation assays also revealed differences in relative amount of each complex forming activity in radicle, hypocotyl, and root nuclear extracts. These data suggest that the expression of telomere-binding proteins is developmentally regulated in plants, and that the factor involved in the formation of complex C may be required during the early stages of development. The binding factors have properties of proteins and are hence designated as mung bean G-rich telomere-binding proteins (MGBP). MGBPs bind DNA substrates with three or more single-stranded TTTAGGG repeats, while none of them show binding affinity to either double-stranded or single-stranded C-rich telomeric DNA. These proteins have a lower affinity to human telomeric sequences than to plant telomeric sequences and do not exhibit a significant binding activity to Tetrahymena telomeric sequence or mutated plant telomeric sequences, indicating that their binding activities are specific to plant telomere. Furthermore, RNase treatment of the nuclear extracts did not affect the complex formation activities. This result indicates that the single-stranded telomere-binding activities may be attributed to a simple protein but not a ribonucleoprotein. The ability of MGBPs to bind specifically the single-stranded TTTAGGG repeats may suggest their in vivo functions in the chromosome ends of plants.
Stachyose is the major soluble carbohydrate in seeds of a number of important crop species. It is synthesized from raffinose and galactinol by the action of stachyose synthase (EC 2.4.1.67). We report here on the identification of a cDNA encoding stachyose synthase from seeds of adzuki bean (Vigna angularis Ohwi et Ohashi). Based on internal amino acid sequences of the enzyme purified from adzuki bean, oligonucleotides were designed and used to amplify corresponding sequences from adzuki bean cDNA by RT-PCR, followed by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE-PCR). The complete cDNA sequence comprised 3046 nucleotides and included an open reading frame which encoded a polypeptide of 857 amino acid residues. The entire coding region was amplified by PCR, engineered into the baculovirus expression vector pVL1393 and introduced into Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf21) insect cells for heterologous expression. The recombinant protein was immunologically reactive with polyclonal antibodies raised against stachyose synthase purified from adzuki bean and was shown to be a functional stachyose synthase with the same catalytic properties as its native counterpart. High levels of stachyose synthase mRNA were transiently accumulated midway through seed development, and the enzyme was also present in mature seeds and during germination.
Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) and Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean) are permissive hosts for southern cowpea mosaic virus (SCPMV) and southern bean mosaic virus (SBMV), respectively. Neither of these two sobemoviruses systemically infects the permissive host of the other. Although bean cells are permissive for SCPMV RNA synthesis, they do not support the assembly of this virus. Thus, the host range restriction of SCPMV in bean may occur at the level of movement and may involve the inability of SCPMV to assemble in this host. In this study, it was demonstrated that SCPMV accumulates in an encapsidated form in the inoculated and systemic leaves of bean plants following coinoculation with SBMV. No evidence was observed that the SCPMV that accumulated in coinoculated bean plants had an altered host range relative to wild-type SCPMV. These results suggested that SBMV complemented the host range restriction of SCPMV in bean. Additional experiments demonstrated that cowpea protoplasts are permissive for SBMV RNA synthesis and assembly. It was concluded from these results that the host range restriction of SBMV in cowpea occurs at the level of movement. In mixed infections of cowpea with SCPMV and SBMV, the latter was recovered from the inoculated but not the systemic leaves. Its recovery from the inoculated leaves, however, was not dependent on the presence of SCPMV in the inoculum. From these results, it was concluded that SCPMV did not complement the host range restriction of SBMV in cowpea.
Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) markedly increased ethylene production by inducing the expression of three 1aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) synthase cDNAs (pVR-ACS1, pVR-ACS6 and pVR-ACS7) in mung bean hypocotyls. Results from nuclear run-on transcription assay and RNA gel blot studies revealed that all three genes were transcriptionally active displaying unique patterns of induction by IAA and various hormones in etiolated hypocotyls. Particularly, 24-epibrassinolide (BR), an active brassinosteroid, specifically enhanced the expression of VR-ACS7 by a distinct temporal induction mechanism compared to that of IAA. In addition, BR synergistically increased the IAA-induced VR-ACS6 and VR-ACS7 transcript levels, while it effectively abolished both the IAA- and kinetin-induced accumulation of VR-ACS1 mRNA. In light-grown plants, VR-ACS1 was induced by IAA in roots, and VR-ACS6 in epicotyls. IAA- and BR-treatments were not able to increase the VR-ACS7 transcript in the light-grown tissues. These results indicate that the expression of ACC synthase multigene family is regulated by complex hormonal and developmental networks in a gene- and tissue-specific manner in mung bean plants. The VR-ACS7 gene was isolated, and chimeric fusion between the 2.4 kb 5'-upstream region and the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene was constructed and introduced into Nicotiana tabacum. Analysis of transgenic tobacco plants revealed the VR-ACS7 promoter-driven GUS activity at a highly localized region of the hypocotyl-root junction of control seedlings, while a marked induction of GUS activity was detected only in the hypocotyl region of the IAA-treated transgenic seedlings where rapid cell elongation occurs. Although there was a modest synergistic effect of BR on the IAA-induced GUS activity, BR alone failed to increase the GUS activity, suggesting that induction of VR-ACS7 occurs via separate signaling pathways in response to IAA and BR. A scheme of the multiple regulatory pathways for the expression of ACC synthase multigene family by auxin and BR is presented.
A rat kidney epithelial cell line expressing the rat neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1 R) was used to investigate the relationship between receptor phosphorylation and desensitization. Substance P (SP) maximally stimulated cellular inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) production 14-fold within 3 s, after which cellular IP3 levels rapidly diminished to near basal levels in the continuing presence of SP. SP also caused concentration-dependent phosphorylation of the NK-1R, and this effect was blocked by a receptor antagonist. Stimulation with 100 nM SP for as little as 2 s resulted in 90% desensitization of the receptor to restimulation by SP, and near-maximal receptor phosphorylation was observed at 5 s. Receptor desensitization was not affected by agents that affect protein kinase A. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) also caused phosphorylation and desensitization of the receptor but with slower kinetics and to a lesser extent than SP. PMA- but not SP-induced NK-1 R desensitization and phosphorylation were abolished by the protein kinase C inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide 1. The concentration-response curves for SP-stimulated IP3 signaling and desensitization were similar, but the curve for NK-1R phosphorylation was shifted to the right and was steeper, suggesting that the relationship between desensitization and phosphorylation is complex. These results show that both rapid homologous and rapid heterologous NK-1R desensitizations may be mediated by receptor phosphorylation but occur via distinct mechanisms with different kinetics and efficacies.
While using YIp356 and YEp356R lacZ reporter plasmids, we found lacZ expression driven by the ARG2 promoter to be much higher in cells grown on a non-glucose carbon source than in glucose-grown cells (5-10-fold higher on galactose and up to 40-fold higher on ethanol). Furthermore, expression increased 30-fold upon shifting from a high-glucose to a low-glucose medium. This carbon source regulation requires Snf1p and possibly Ssn6p. It appears, however, to be artefactually mediated by plasmid sequences located upstream from the multicloning site. This emerged from the following observations: (a) the derepressive effect disappears if any extra piece of DNA is inserted upstream from the ARG2 promoter; and (b) similar derepression on low glucose is observed with another yeast promoter (ARG11), provided that the flanking 5' region is short. We determined that the cis-elements responsible for this physiologically irrelevant glucose regulation are located between positions 636 and 879 of the pUC18 DNA sequence.
A genomic clone for VR-ACS6, an isozyme of auxin-inducible ACC synthase of mungbean, was isolated, and its promoter activity was examined in transgenic tobacco. The clone contained 1,612 bp long 5' untranscribed region and its coding sequence consisted of three exons and two introns. Genomic Southern hybridization indicated that VR-ACS6 is a single copy gene. The transcription initiation site was a cytosine present at 231-base upstream the translation start codon. The VR-ACS6 promoter contained DNA sequences homologous to various functionally identified auxin-responsive elements. To demonstrate hormonal response of the promoter region, transgenic tobacco plants carrying the 1,719 bp VR-ACS6 promoter/-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion gene were generated. Strong GUS expression occurred by auxin treatment of leaves of T0 transformants and hypocotyls of T1 etiolated seedlings. Magnitude of the response to auxin was dose-dependent, and the increased GUS activity was detected at 0.1 microM and higher concentrations of IAA. Other plant hormones did not induce GUS activity, but greatly modified the response to auxin. Cytokinin enhanced the IAA-induced expression of GUS reporter gene, whereas ABA and ethylene suppressed the expression. These characteristics of VR-ACS6 promoter activity in transgenic tobacco are in good accordance with the expression patterns of the gene in mungbean hypocotyls. Histochemical staining showed that GUS activity was evident in both etiolated and light grown seedings treated with IAA. Cytokinin enhanced the intensity of auxin-induced GUS stain and also expanded the stained area, whereas ABA and ethylene reduced both intensity and area of the stain.
Phospholipase D, a major lipid-degrading enzyme in plants, was studied in two cultivars of Vigna unguiculata L.Walp, differing in their tolerance to drought (cv. EPACE-1, drought-tolerant, and cv. 1183, drought-susceptible). Enzymatic activities, measured with 14C-PC as substrate, increased when plants were submitted to water stress, the increase being much higher in the drought-sensitive cultivar. A 2911 bp cDNA encoding a putative phospholipase D (VuPLD1) was isolated from a cDNA library prepared from V. unguiculata leaves. The deduced amino acid sequence (809 residues) shows 85.5% identity and 91.3% similarity to that of PLD from Ricinus communis. The expression of the VuPLD1 gene in the leaves is differently modulated by water deficit, depending on the intensity of stress and the tolerance or sensitivity of the plants. In the drought-susceptible V. unguiculata cv. 1183, it readily increased under water stress, reaching maximum values at mild water deficit (-1.5 MPa). In the drought-tolerant cv. EPACE-1, VuPLD1 mRNA remained low throughout the whole drought treatment. Dehydration of leaves led to a dramatic increase in transcript level in both cultivars. Changes in protein amounts semi-quantified by immunoblotting correlated well with variations in transcript steady-state level. Taken together, these results showed that phospholipase D in cowpea plants is essentially regulated at the transcriptional level, and that gene expression is strongly stimulated even by moderate water deficit in the drought-sensitive plant. On the contrary, the drought-tolerant plant presents a remarkable stability of PLD gene expression in conditions of water stress.
The ornithine transaminase (otaA) gene of Aspergillus nidulans has been cloned by transformation of the A. nidulans pro-ota- mutant strain with a cosmid gene library. The otaA gene contains two introns and potentially codes for a 453-aa-long protein. The deduced amino-acid sequence is homologous to known ornithine transaminases from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Plasmodium falciparum, Vigna aconitifolia, rat, mouse and man, particularly in the pyridoxal phosphate-binding domain. The expression of the otaA gene is specifically induced by arginine, and is also under the control of nitrogen-metabolite and carbon-catabolite repression. Regulation of the gene occurs at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. The promoter region of otaA contains putative AREA and CREA binding-sites. Fusion proteins containing AREA or CREA DNA-binding domains bind some of these sites. CREA binding-sites correspond very well to the CREA-binding consensus sequence which is SYGGRG. AREA binding-sites are composed of GATT sequences which are not typical binding sites for the GATA - binding family of transcription factors.
The nodulation factors (Nod factors) of Rhizobium etli and R. loti carry a 4-O-acetyl-L-fucosyl group at the reducing end. It has been claimed, based on sequence analysis, that NolL from R. loti participates in the 4-O-acetylation of the fucosyl residue of the Nod factors, as an acetyl-transferase (D. B. Scott, C. A. Young, J. M. Collins-Emerson, E. A. Terzaghi, E. S. Rockman, P. A. Lewis, and C. E. Pankhurst. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 9:187-197, 1996). Further support for this hypothesis was obtained by studying the production of Nod factors in an R. etli nolL::Km mutant. Chromatographic and mass spectrometry analysis of the Nod factors produced by this strain showed that they lack the acetyl-fucosyl substituent, having a fucosyl group instead. Acetyl-fucosylation was restored upon complementation with a wild-type nolL gene. These results indicate that the nolL gene determines 4-O-acetylation of the fucosyl residue in Nod factors. Analysis of the predicted NolL polypeptide suggests a transmembranal location and that it belongs to the family of integral membrane transacylases (J. M. Slauch, A. A. Lee, M. J. Mahan, and J. J. Mekalanos. J. Bacteriol. 178:5904-5909, 1996). NolL from R. loti was also proposed to function as a transporter; our results show that NolL does not determine a differential secretion of Nod factors from the cell. We also performed plant assays that indicate that acetylation of the fucose conditions efficient nodulation by R. etli of some Phaseolus vulgaris cultivars, as well as of an alternate host (Vigna umbellata).
Ferritin gene expression has been demonstrated in a variety of plants including maize, Arabidopsis, cowpeas, soybeans, beans and peas. Most available evidence shows that the mature protein is located in plastids and its production is under gene transcriptional control. In maize, two different ferritin genes have been identified; they were found to express protein under different physiological conditions. Only single gene products have been found until now in the other plants, with the exception of cowpeas (Vigna unguiculata). Our previous work with cowpeas [Wicks and Entsch (1993) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 192, 813-819] showed the existence of a family of at least three ferritin genes, each coding for a protein subunit with a unique amino acid sequence. Here we report the discovery of a fourth active gene in cowpeas and present the full cDNA sequences for two of the four known members of the cowpea gene family. We also provide preliminary evidence for a family of ferritin genes in soybeans (Glycine max) related to that in cowpeas. We conclude that a family of genes is probably present in all higher plants. We have used quantitative reverse transcriptase-mediated PCR to show that each of the four members of the cowpea ferritin gene family expresses mRNA in leaves and roots under normal growth with a complete nutrient supply. The results clearly show a marked differential pattern of mRNA levels formed during development from the four genes. We conclude that the composition of plant ferritin molecules from plant leaf extracts is probably a complex mixture of subunits, which might be different in roots and in leaves.
Eutypine, 4-hydroxy-3-(3-methyl-3-butene-1-ynyl) benzyl aldehyde, is a toxin produced by Eutypa lata, the causal agent of eutypa dieback of grapevines. It has previously been demonstrated that tolerance of some cultivars to this disease was correlated with their capacity to convert eutypine to the corresponding alcohol, eutypinol, which lacks phytotoxicity. We have thus purified to homogeneity a protein from Vigna radiata that exhibited eutypine-reducing activity and have isolated the corresponding cDNA. This encodes an NADPH-dependent reductase of 36 kDa that we have named Vigna radiata eutypine-reducing enzyme (VR-ERE), based on the capacity of a recombinant form of the protein to reduce eutypine into eutypinol. The strongest homologies (86.8%) of VR-ERE at the amino acid level were found with CPRD14, a drought-inducible gene of unknown function, isolated from Vigna unguiculata and with an aromatic alcohol dehydrogenase (71.7%) from Eucalyptus gunnii. Biochemical characterization of VR-ERE revealed that a variety of compounds containing an aldehyde group can act as substrates. However, the highest affinity was observed with 3-substituted benzaldehydes. Expression of a VR-ERE transgene in Vitis vinifera cells cultured in vitro conferred resistance to the toxin. This discovery opens up new biotechnological approaches for the generation of grapevines resistant to eutypa dieback.
Inoculation of Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) with transcripts synthesized in vitro from a genome-length cDNA clone of the cowpea strain of southern bean mosaic virus (SBMV-C) resulted in a systemic SBMV-C infection of this host. Capped RNA was about five times more infectious than uncapped RNA as determined by a local lesion assay. The SBMV-C cDNA clone was also used for mutagenesis of the four SBMV-C open reading frames (ORFs). ORF1, ORF3, and coat protein (CP) mutants were not infectious in cowpea. Electroporation of cowpea protoplasts with mutant transcripts demonstrated that the ORF1, ORF3, and CP gene products were not required for SBMV-C RNA synthesis, and the ORF1 and ORF3 gene products were not required for SBMV-C assembly. From these results, it was concluded that the ORF1 and ORF3 proteins and the CP are required for SBMV-C cell-to-cell movement. One of the ORF3 mutants pSBMV2-UAA1833 contained a nonsense codon between the predicted -1 ribosomal frameshift site (SBMV-C nucleotides 1796-1802) and a potential ORF3 translation initiation codon at SBMV-C nucleotide 1895. The lack of infectivity of this mutant suggested that ORF3 was expressed by a -1 ribosomal frameshift in ORF2 rather than by initiation of translation at nucleotide 1895.
Two different cDNA clones, MsP5CS-1 and MsP5CS-2, encoding delta1 -pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthase (P5CS). the first enzyme of the proline biosynthetic pathway, were isolated from a lambdaZap-cDNA library constructed from salt stressed Medicago sativa roots. MsP5CS-1 (2.6 kb) has an open reading frame of 717 amino acids, as well as a non-spliced intron at a position corresponding to the evolutionary fusion point of the bacterial proA and proB genes. MsP5CS-2 (1.25 kb) is a partial clone. The clones share 65% identity in nucleotide sequences, 74% homology in deduced amino acid sequences, and both show a high similarity to Vigna aconitifolia and Arabidopsis thaliana P5CS cDNA clones. Southern blot analysis confirmed the presence of two different P5CS genes. The effect of salinity on the transcription of MsP5CS-1 and MsP5CS-2 in roots was studied, using northern blot analysis and a RT-PCR approach. A rapid increase in the steady-state transcript level of both genes in roots was observed by RT-PCR upon exposure of hydroponically grown 6-day old seedlings to 90 mM NaCl, suggesting that both are salt-inducible genes, yet a higher response was observed for MsP5CS-2.
Survivin is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family. We investigated the antiapoptotic mechanism of Survivin, as well as its expression in 60 human tumor cell lines used for the National Cancer Institute's anticancer drug screening program. In cotransfection experiments, cell death induced by Bax or Fas (CD 95) was partially inhibited (mean +/- SD, 65% +/- 8%) by Survivin, whereas XIAP, another IAP family member, almost completely blocked cell death (93% +/- 4%) under the same conditions. Survivin and XIAP also protected 293 cells from apoptosis induced by overexpression of procaspase-3 and -7 and inhibited the processing of these zymogens into active caspases. In vitro binding experiments indicated that, like other IAP-family proteins, Survivin binds specifically to the terminal effector cell death proteases, caspase-3 and -7, but not to the proximal initiator protease caspase-8. Using a cell-free system in which cytosolic extracts were derived from control- or Survivin-transfected cells and where caspases were activated either by addition of cytochrome c and dATP or by adding recombinant active caspase-8, Survivin was able to substantially reduce caspase activity, as measured by cleavage of a tetrapeptide substrate, AspGluValAsp-aminofluorocoumarin. Similar results were obtained in intact cells when Survivin was overexpressed by gene transfection and caspase activation was induced by the anticancer drug etoposide. Survivin was expressed in all 60 cancer cell lines analyzed, with highest levels in breast and lung cancers and lowest levels in renal cancers. These findings indicate that Survivin, which is commonly expressed in human tumor cell lines, can bind the effector cell death proteases caspase-3 and -7 in vitro and inhibits caspase activity and cell death in cells exposed to diverse apoptotic stimuli. Although quantitative differences may exist, these observations suggest commonality in the mechanisms used by IAP-family proteins to suppress apoptosis.
Transcriptional regulators of the lysR family largely control the expression of bacterial symbiotic genes. Rhizobium sp. NGR234 contains at least four members of this family: two resemble nodD, while two others are more closely related to syrM. Part of the extremely broad host range of NGR234 can be attributed to nodD1, although the second gene shares a high degree of DNA sequence homology with nodD2 of R. fredii USDA191. A nodD2 mutant of NGR234 was constructed by insertional mutagenesis. This mutant (NGR omega nodD2) was deficient in nitrogen fixation on Vigna unguiculata and induced pseudonodules on Tephrosia vogelii. Several other host plants were tested, but no correlation could be drawn between the phenotype and nodule morphology. Moreover, nodD2 has a negative effect on the production of Nod factors: mutation of this gene results in a fivefold increase in Nod factor production. Surprisingly, while the structure of Nod factors from free-living cultures of NGR omega nodD2 remained unchanged, those from V. unguiculata nodules induced by the same strain are non-fucosylated and have a lower degree of oligomerization. In other words, developmental regulation of Nod factor production is also abolished in this mutant. Competitive RNA hybridizations, gene fusions and mobility shift assays confirmed that nodD2 downregulates expression of the nodABC operon.
Vacuolar proton-translocating inorganic pyrophosphatase and H(+)-ATPase acidify the vacuoles and power the vacuolar secondary active transport systems in plants. Developmental changes in the transcription of the pyrophosphatase in growing hypocotyls of mung bean (Vigna radiata) were investigated. The cDNA clone for the mung bean enzyme contains an uninterrupted open reading frame of 2298 bp, coding for a polypeptide of 766 amino acids. Hypocotyls were divided into elongating and mature regions. RNA analysis revealed that the transcript level of the pyrophosphatase was high in the elongating region of the 3-d-old hypocotyl but was extremely low in the mature region of the 5-d-old hypocotyl. The level of transcript of the 68-kD subunit of H(+)-ATPase also decreased after cell maturation. In the elongating region, the proton-pumping activity of pyrophosphatase on the basis of membrane protein was 3 times higher than that of H(+)-ATPase. After cell maturation, the pyrophosphatase activity decreased to 30% of that in the elongating region. The decline in the pyrophosphatase activity was in parallel with a decrease in the enzyme protein content. These findings indicate that the level of the pyrophosphatase, a main vacuolar proton pump in growing cells, is negatively regulated after cell maturation at the transcriptional level.
A cDNA clone encoding a daylily (Hemerocallis spp.) thiolprotease (SEN11), whose expression is strongly upregulated in flower tepal senescence, has been isolated. The amino acid sequence, deduced from the nucleotide sequence, showed highest similarity to plant thiolproteases of Vigna mungo, Phaseolus vulgaris and Hemerocallis (SEN102), and contains a putative ER retention signal that has been described in Vigna mungo. SEN102 and SEN11 transcripts were not detectable in flower buds at the opening stage, but two peaks of transcripts were seen after 9 h and 19 h, in both petals and sepals, when wilting symptoms were apparent. The pattern of protease activity migrating on a 26.3 kDa protein was similar to the SEN102 and SEN11 transcript profiles. These two genes were also expressed in stamens and leaves, but their transcripts were undetectable in carpels and rhizomes. The expression of SEN102 was lower in the senescent leaf than in the green leaf. The pattern of expression of these genes suggests their involvement in the protein hydrolysis occurring in tepals at the late senescence stage, whereas in leaves they could be involved in the constitutive protein turnover machinery. Exogenous gibberellic acid application to cut flowers increased transcripts of both genes.
Differential screening, aimed at the isolation of cDNA clones of mRNAs whose accumulation is influenced by GA3, resulted in the isolation of a cDNA clone of an mRNA whose level was decreased by GA3 in segments of epicotyls of Vigna angularis. The putative protein encoded by this cDNA resembled the 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate oxidases (ACC oxidases) identified in other plant species (about 80% homology at the amino acid level). Thus, the corresponding gene was designated AB-ACO1 (azuki bean ACC oxidase). GA3 also decreased the activity of ACC oxidase in azuki bean epicotyls, but it did not decrease the rate of ethylene evolution. In fact, GA3 increased the rate of ethylene evolution and the level of ACC. Thus, GA3 seemed to increase the production of ethylene by promoting the synthesis of ACC.
Proteinase A is a papain-like cysteine endopeptidase of vetch (Vicia sativa L.) which was assumed to initiate storage-globulin breakdown just after the onset of seed germination. This enzyme was purified from cotyledons of vetch seedlings. On gelatin-containg SDS gels, active proteinase A migrated with an apparent molecular mass of 21 kDa, whereas after heat denaturation its molecular size on SDS/PAGE was 29 kDa. Although proteinase A is capable of hydrolyzing storage globulins in vitro it could not be localized in the protein-body fraction of cotyledons from germinating seeds. cDNA clones encoding proteinase A precursor have been obtained by PCR. The precursor is composed of an N-terminal signal sequence followed by a propeptide, the region encoding mature proteinase A, and a C-terminal KDEL sequence. Mature proteinase A with a derived molecular mass of 25,244 Da does not have the KDEL sequence. The derived amino acid sequence of the proteinase A precursor is 78.2% identical to sulfhydryl-endopeptidase (SH-EP), a cysteine endopeptidase from germinating Vigna mungo seedlings. Northern blot analysis indicated that proteinase A mRNA appears de novo in cotyledons of 1-day-germinated vetch seeds, where its amount increases up to day 6. No proteinase A mRNA was detected in other vetch organs, not even in the embryo axis, which contains stored globulins. By means of antibodies raised against the purified and against recombinantly produced proteinase A, the 29-kDa bands of mature proteinase A were detected in cotyledon extracts of 6-day-germinated seeds when globulin degradation has already far proceeded. The reported data do not agree with the proposed triggering role of proteinase A in storage-globulin breakdown during germination.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) nodules contain three leghemoglobins (LbI, LbII, and LbIII) that are encoded by at least two genes. We have cloned and sequenced the gene that encodes for LbII (lbII), the most abundant Lb in cowpea nodules, using total DNA as the template for PCR. Primers were designed using the sequence of the soybean lbc gene. The lbII gene is 679 bp in length and codes for a predicted protein of 145 amino acids. Using sequences of the cowpea lbII gene for the synthesis of primers and total nodule RNA as the template, we cloned a cDNA for LbII into a constitutive expression vector (pEMBL19+) and then expressed it in Escherichia coli. Recombinant LbII (rLbII) and native LbII (nLbII) from cowpea nodules were purified to homogeneity using standard techniques. Properties of rLbII were compared with nLbII by partially sequencing the proteins and by sodium dodecyl sulfate- and isoelectric focusing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, western-blot analysis using anti-soybean Lba antibodies, tryptic and chymotryptic mapping, and spectrophotometric techniques. The data showed that the structural and spectral characteristics of rLbII and nLbII were similar. The rLbII was reversibly oxygenated/deoxygenated, showing that it is a functional hemoglobin.
Chalcone synthase (CHS) of Vigna unguiculata is encoded by a gene family that is abundantly transcribed in leaves and nodules. Inoculation with Rhizobium sp. NGR234, which nodulates V. unguiculata, or with NGR delta nodABC, a mutant deficient in Nod factor production, induced rapid accumulation of CHS mRNAs in roots and root hairs. As both Nod+ and Nod- bacteria provoke responses, induction of CHS gene expression may involve symbiotic or defense responses. Four days after inoculation with the wild-type Rhizobium sp., the transcript levels increased in roots but decreased in root hairs. Use of a region unique to the 5' end of a specific CHS gene (VuCHS1) showed that increases of transcript levels in root hairs 24 h after inoculation with both rhizobia were specific to this gene. Transcripts of this gene in roots were only detectable 4 days after treatment with NGR234. It is possible therefore that accumulation of VuCHS1 follows the infection pathway of rhizobia entering legume roots. Purified Nod factors induced accumulation of transcripts, showing that they might be part of the signal transduction pathway leading to CHS expression.
We have isolated four cDNA clones of ACC synthase from etiolated mungbean seedlings treated with auxin. pVR-ACS2, pVR-ACS3 and pVR-ACS6 contained the same sequences as the previously reported DNA fragments, pMAC2, pMAC3 (Botella et al. 1992b) and pMBA1 (Kim et al. 1992), respectively. pVR-ACS1 was identical with pAIM-1 (Botella et al. 1992a). VR-ACS6 was specifically induced in response to the auxin signal. The IAA-induction of VR-ACS6 was very rapid (within 30 min) and insensitive to cycloheximide treatment at concentrations up to 100 microM. Significant accumulation of VR-ACS6 mRNA was detected at 1 microM IAA. The IAA-induced expression of VR-ACS6 was suppressed by ABA and ethylene, but enhanced by BA. These characteristics of VR-ACS6 expression were well correlated with the physiological data of auxin-induced ethylene production in mungbean hypocotyls. VR-ACS1 was strongly induced by cycloheximide, but was found to be not auxin-specific. Inhibitors of either ethylene biosynthesis (AOA) or action (NBD) increased the basal level of VR-ACS1 mRNA.
A cDNA for delta1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) synthetase (cOsP5CS), an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of proline, was isolated and characterized from a cDNA library prepared from 14-day-old seedlings of Oryza sativa cv. Akibare. The deduced amino acid sequence of the P5CS protein (OsP5CS) from O. sativa exhibited 74.2% and 75.5% homology to that of the P5CS from Arabidopsis thaliana and Vigna aconitifolia, respectively. Northern blot analysis revealed that the gene for P5CS (OsP5CS) was induced by high salt, dehydration, treatment of ABA and cold treatment, while it was not induced by heat treatment. Simultaneously, accumulation of proline was observed as a result of high salt treatment in O. sativa. Moreover, the levels of expression of OsP5CS mRNA and content of proline under salt stress condition were compared between a salt-tolerant cultivar, Dee-gee-woo-gen (DGWG) and a salt-sensitive breeding line, IR28. It was observed that the expression of the P5CS gene and the accumulation of proline in DGWG steadily increased, whereas those in IR28 increased slightly.
Three cDNAs (ext3, ext127, and ext26), originally isolated by differential screening from a root-hair cDNA library of Vigna unguiculata, were found to encode extensin-like cell wall proteins. Transcripts homologous to these cDNAs were only detected in root hairs where mRNA levels decreased 1 day after inoculation with rhizobia. This coincided with the onset of root-hair deformation, the first morphological step in the Rhizobium-legume interaction. Decreases in transcript levels following inoculation with wild-type Rhizobium sp. NGR234 were more pronounced than with NGR delta nodABC, a mutant deficient in Nod-factor production. Inoculation with a rhizobial strain carrying a mutation in a gene encoding a transcriptional activator for nod genes (NGR delta nodD1) did not repress mRNA levels, indicating that a second nodulation signal may be present that is nodD dependent. Application of purified NodNGR factors only affected transcript levels of ext3. The genomic locus of the gene homologous to ext26 (Ext26G) was cloned. In the 5' flanking region, several potential TATA boxes and CAP signals were identified. Part of the promoter region shares homology with the Pisum sativum seed lectin promoter and the Nicotiana tabacum nitrate reductase promoter region. Nonetheless, the function of these homologous regions in gene regulation is unknown.
Ten cDNAs of genes that were induced by dehydration stress were cloned by differential screening from the highly drought-tolerant legume, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), a major crop in West Africa. The clones were collectively named CPRD (cowpea clones responsive to dehydration). Northern blot analysis revealed that nine of the CPRD genes were induced by dehydration stress, but the timing of induction of mRNA synthesis varied among the CPRD genes. We analyzed the effects of other environmental stresses on the expression of the CPRD8, CPRD14 and CPRD22 genes, and we found that these genes were strongly induced by high-salinity stress but not by cold or heat stress. Drought-stressed cowpea plants accumulated abscisic acid (ABA) to a level that was 160 times higher than that in unstressed plants. The CPRD8 and CPRD22 genes were induced to a significant extent by the application of exogenous ABA but the CPRD14 gene was not. These results indicate the existence of at least two signal-transduction pathways between the detection of water stress and the expression of CPRD genes in cowpea. Sequence analysis of CPRD8 and CPRD22 cDNAs revealed that they encoded putative proteins that were related to old yellow enzyme and group 2 LEA proteins, respectively. The protein encoded by CPRD14 exhibited sequence homology to dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) and vestitone reductase (VR). Old yellow enzyme, DFR and VR have not been identified as drought-inducible proteins in other plants, whereas LEA genes have been well characterized as drought-inducible genes. The various gene products might function to protect cells from environmental stress.
The objectives of this study were to use molecular markers to: (1) identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling seed-weight in soybean, (2) characterize the genetic basis of seed-weight expression, and (3) determine whether soybean shares orthologous seed-weight genes with cowpea and/or mung bean. An F2 population was developed between a large-seeded Glycine max breeding line and a small-seeded G. soja plant introduction. DNA samples from 150 F2 individuals were analyzed with 91 polymorphic genetic markers, including RFLPs, RAPDs and SSRs. Seed-weight was analyzed by randomly sampling 100 seeds from each of 150 greenhouse-grown F2 individuals, and their 150 F2∶3 lines, from a replicated field trial. Markers associated with seed-weight were identified using the computer program MapMaker-QTL and a one-way analysis of variance. Three and five markers were significantly associated with seed-weight variation (P<0.01) in the F2 and F2∶3 generations, respectively. Tests for digenic epistasis revealed three significant interactions in both generations. In a combined analysis, these markers and interactions explained 50 and 60% of the phenotypic variation for seed-weight in the F2 and F2∶3 generations, respectively. Comparison of our results in soybean (Glycine) with those previously reported in cowpea and mung bean (Vigna) indicated that soybean and cowpea share an orthologous seed-weight gene. In both species, a genomic region significantly associated with seed-weight spanned the same RFLP markers in the same linkage order. A significant digenic interaction involving this genomic region was conserved in all three species. These results suggest that the exploitation of "comparative QTL mapping" is an invaluable tool for quantitative geneticists working with poorly characterized plant systems.
A cDNA clone encoding a pectinacetylesterase (PAE) was isolated from 3-day-old mung bean seedlings using PCR-based techniques. Degenerate oligonucleotide primers were designed according to the N-terminus and internal peptides from the purified PAE. The full-length clone of 1453 bp codes for a signal peptide of 24 amino acids and a mature protein of 375 amino acids. The Mr and the pI of the cDNA-deduced amino acid sequence agree with the values estimated for the purified enzyme. No significant sequence identity between the PAE and any known protein could be found in the databases. Northern analysis revealed developmentally regulated expression of the mRNA in mung been seedlings.
The barley cysteine proteinase B (EPB) is the main protease responsible for the degradation of endosperm storage proteins providing nitrogenous nutrients to support the growth of young seedlings. The expression of this enzyme is induced in the germinating seeds by the phytohormone, gibberellin, and suppressed by another phytohormone, abscisic acid. In situ hybridization experiments indicate that EPB is expressed in the scutellar epithelium within 24 h of seed germination, but the aleurone tissue surrounding the starchy endosperm eventually becomes the main tissue expressing this enzyme. The EPB gene family of barley consists of two very similar genes, EPB1 and EPB2, both of which have been mapped to chromosome 3. The sequences of EPB1 and EPB2 match with the two previously published cDNA clones indicating that both genes are expressed. Interestingly, neither of these genes contain any introns, a rare phenomenon in which all members of a small gene family are active intronless genes. Sequence comparison indicates that the barley EPB family can be classified as cathepsin L-like endopeptidases and is most closely related to two legume cysteine proteinases (Phaseolus vulgaris EP-C1 and Vigna mungo SHEP) which are also involved in seed storage protein degradation. The promoters of EPB1 and EPB2 have been linked to the coding sequence of a reporter gene, GUS, encoding beta-glucuronidase, and introduced into barley aleurone cells using the particle bombardment method. Transient expression studies indicate that EPB promoters are sufficient to confer the hormonal regulation of these genes.
The common nodulation locus and closely linked nodulation genes of Bradyrhizobium (Arachis) sp. strain NC92 have been isolated on an 11.0-kb EcoRI restriction fragment. The nucleotide sequence of a 7.0-kb EcoRV-EcoRI subclone was determined and found to contain open reading frames (ORFs) homologous to the nodA, nodB, nodD1, nodD2, and nolA genes of Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Bradyrhizobium elkanii. Nodulation assays of nodD1, nodD2, or nolA deletion mutants on the host plants Macroptilium atropurpureum (siratro) and Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) indicate that nolA is required for efficient nodulation, as nolA mutants exhibit a 6-day nodulation delay and reduced nodule numbers. The nolA phenotype was complemented by providing the nolA ORF in trans, indicating that the phenotype is due to the lack of the nolA ORF. nodD1 mutants displayed a 2-day nodulation delay, whereas nodD2 strains were indistinguishable from the wild type. Translational nodA-lacZ, nodD1-lacZ, nodD2-lacZ, and nolA-lacZ fusions were created. Expression of the nodA-lacZ fusion was induced by the addition of peanut, cowpea, and siratro seed exudates and by the addition of the isoflavonoids genistein and daidzein. In a nodD1 or nodD2 background, basal expression of the nodA-lacZ fusion increased two- to threefold. The level of expression of the nodD2-lacZ and nolA-lacZ fusions was low in the wild type but increased in nodD1, nodD2, and nodD1 nodD2 backgrounds independently of the addition of the inducer genistein. nolA was required for increased expression of the nodD2-lacZ fusion. These data suggest that a common factor is involved in the regulation of nodD2 and nolA, and they are also consistent with a model of nod gene expression in Bradyrhizobium (Arachis) sp. strain NC92 in which negative regulation is mediated by the products of the nodD1 and nodD2 genes.
Protein kinases are important in eukaryotic signal transduction pathways. In this study we designed degenerate oligonucleotides corresponding to two conserved regions of protein kinases and using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) have amplified a 141 bp fragment of DNA from mungbeans (Vigna radiata Rwilcz cv. Berken). Sequence analysis of the PCR products indicates that they encode several putative protein kinases with respect to their identity with other known plant protein kinases. Using one of the six fragments (CPK3-8), we isolated a 2022 bp cDNA (VrCDPK-1) from a Vigna radiata lambda gt11 library. VrCDPK-1 has a 96 bp 5'-untranslated region and a 465 bp 3'-untranslated region and an open reading frame of 1461 bp. VrCDPK-1 contains all of the conserved regions commonly found in calcium dependent protein kinases (CDPK). VrCDPK-1 shares 24 to 89% sequence identity with previously reported sequences for plant CDPKs at the protein level. Southern analysis revealed the presence of several copies of the CDPK gene. VrCDPK-1 expression was stimulated when mungbean cuttings were treated with CaCl2, while treatment with MgCl2 had no effect. We are reporting for the first time a CDPK gene in mungbean which is inducible by mechanical strain. Cuttings treated with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) or subjected to salt stress showed an increase in VrCDPK-1 expression. There was a dramatic stimulation in VrCDPK-1 expression 6 h after cuttings were treated with cycloheximide.
Transformed Vigna mungo (blackgram) calli were obtained by cocultivating segments of primary leaves with Agrobacterium tumefaciens vir helper strains harbouring the binary vector pGA472 having kanamycin resistance gene as plant transformation marker. Transformed calli were selected on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 50 mg/l kanamycin and 500 mg/l carbenicillin. Transformed calli were found to be resistant to kanamycin up to 900 mg/l concentration. Expression of kanamycin resistance gene in transformed calli was demonstrated by neomycin phosphotransferase assay. Stable integration of transferred DNA into V. mungo genome was confirmed by Southern blot analysis.
Cysteine endopeptidases, SH-EP from Vigna mungo and EP-C1 from Phaseolus vulgaris, act to degrade seed storage protein during seed germination. Using transgenic tobacco plants, expression of SH-EP and promoter activity of the EP-C1 gene were analyzed in transgenic tobacco plants. The promoters of the two genes in tobacco seeds showed germination-specific activation, although post-translational processing of SH-EP and regulatory regions of promoter of the gene for EP-C1 were found to differ between leguminous seeds and transgenic tobacco seeds.
An auxin-regulated calmodulin cDNA (arCaM) were isolated by differential screening from a mung bean (Vigna radiata) cDNA library. The expression of the arCaM transcript in the etiolated mung bean hypocotyl was examined by RNA gel blot analysis. The arCaM transcript was induced depending on indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) concentrations. An increase in level of the arCaM transcript upon treatment of hypocotyl segments with 10 microM IAA was detected after 1 h and a maximum level was detected at 2 h. Induction of the arCaM transcript occurred upon treatment with 10 microM 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or naphthalene-1-acetic acid (NAA) as well as with IAA, while treatment with 10 microM p-chlorophenoxyisobutyric acid (PCIB) as an anti-auxin, prevented the induction. Ethylene did not have any effect. Other stress conditions, such as exposure to salt stress, heavy metal ions and heat shock, also had no effect on the induction. The levels of the arCaM transcript in leaves of light-grown mung bean plants treated with IAA showed steady but small increases with time.
A full-length cDNA and the corresponding At-P5S gene encoding the first enzyme of the proline biosynthetic pathway, the delta 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) synthetase, were isolated in Arabidopsis thaliana. The At-P5S cDNA encodes a protein of 717 amino acids showing high identity with the P5C synthetase of Vigna aconitifolia. Strong homology is also found at the N-terminus to bacterial and yeast gamma-glutamyl kinase and at the C-terminus to bacterial gamma-glutamyl phosphate reductase. Putative ATP- and NAD(P)H-binding sites are suggested in the At-P5S protein. The transcribed region of the At-P5S gene is 4.8 kb long and contains 20 exons. Southern analysis suggests the presence of only one At-P5S gene in the A. thaliana genome mapped at the bottom of the chromosome two. Expression analysis of At-P5S in different organs reveals abundant At-P5S transcripts in mature flowering plant. Rapid induction of the At-P5S gene followed by accumulation of proline was observed in NaCl-treated seedlings suggesting that At-P5S is osmoregulated.
The isolation and characterization is reported of a cDNA for delta 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) synthetase (cAtP5CS), an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of proline, from a cDNA library prepared from a dehydrated rosette plant of Arabidopsis thaliana. Southern blot analysis suggested that only one copy of the corresponding gene (AtP5CS) is present in A. thaliana. The deduced amino acid sequence of the P5CS protein (AtP5CS) from A. thaliana exhibited 74% homology to that of the P5CS from Vigna aconitifolia. Northern blot analysis revealed that the gene for P5CS was induced by dehydration, high salt and treatment with ABA, while it was not induced by heat or cold treatment. Moreover, the simultaneous accumulation of proline was observed as a result of the former treatments in A. thaliana. A cDNA for P5C reductase (cAtP5CR) was also isolated from A. thaliana and Northern blot analysis was performed. The AtP5CR gene was not induced to a significant extent by dehydration or high-salt stress. These observations suggest that the AtP5CS gene plays a principal role in the biosynthesis of proline in A. thaliana under osmotic stress.
Ethylene production is observed in all higher plants, where it is involved in numerous aspects of growth, development, and senescence. 1-Aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid synthase (ACC synthase; S-adenosyl-L-methionine methylthioadenosine-lyase, EC 4.4.1.14) is the key regulatory enzyme in the ethylene biosynthetic pathway. We are reporting an ACC synthase gene in Vigna radiata (mung bean) that is inducible by mechanical strain. The ACC synthase cDNA AIM-1 was induced by mechanical strain within 10 min, reaching a maximum at 30 min, showing a dramatic reduction after 60 min, and showing no detectable message by 3 hr. The kinetics of induction for AIM-1 was similar to a mechanical strain-induced calmodulin (MBCaM-1) in V. radiata, whereas the kinetics of its decline from maximum was different. When plants were subjected to calcium-deficient conditions, supplemental calcium, calcium chelators, calcium storage releasers, calcium ionophore, or calmodulin antagonists, there was no effect on AIM-1, indicating that the mechanical strain-induced AIM-1 expression is a calcium-independent process. Induction of MBCaM-1 in all cases behaved in the same way as AIM-1, suggesting that they share similar mechanically activated cis- and/or trans-acting elements in their promoter.
Soybean (Glycine max) and mothbean (Vigna aconitifolia) cDNA clones encoding glutamine phosphoribosylpyrophosphate amidotransferase (PRAT), the first enzyme of the de novo purine biosynthesis pathway, have been isolated from nodule cDNA libraries. The amino acid sequence deduced from soybean clone showed > 85% homology to the PRAT sequence of mothbean and 33-47% homology to those of bacteria, yeast, chicken, rat and human. The soybean clone encodes a protein with an N-terminal sequence resembling a plastid-targeting peptide. Downstream from this peptide is a sequence similar to the 11 amino acid propeptide found in the Bacillus subtilis, chicken, rat and human PRAT proteins. The mothbean cDNA, although lacking most of the plastid presequence, encodes the putative propeptide and efficiently complements purine auxotrophy in an Escherichia coli purF mutant. Both the soybean and mothbean clones encode characteristic cysteine residues that are known to be involved in the assembly of a [Fe-S] cluster near the C-terminus of this protein. Levels of PRAT mRNA in mothbean nodules were found to increase steadily as the nodules matured from 13 days to 23 days. PRAT mRNA was not detectable in uninfected root tissue but a low level of transcript was detected in leaves. Treatment of uninfected root with L-glutamine induced the PRAT mRNA transcript suggesting that glutamine produced as a result of assimilation of fixed nitrogen is funnelled into the de novo purine biosynthesis and controls the expression of this pathway in root nodules.
A single copy of the alpha-amylase gene, composed of three introns and four exons, was found in Vigna mungo. Examination of levels of alpha-amylase and its mRNA in detached cotyledons indicated that attachment of the embryonic axis is not required for expression of the gene in cotyledons of germinating seeds.
A cDNA library was constructed from RNA of Vigna unguiculata root hairs harvested 1 day and 4 days after inoculation with Rhizobium sp. NGR234. A heterologous probe was used to identify a cDNA clone, the predicted 99-amino-acid sequence of which shares homology with a nonspecific lipid transfer protein (LTP) of Hordeum vulgare. Other characteristics, including an estimated molecular weight of 10.4 kD, an isoelectric point of 8.6, and a signal peptide with a hydrophobic region at the amino-terminal end, are shared by most LTPs. A transcript of 630 nt was found in all tissues tested, except nodules. Levels of mRNA increased in root hairs 24 hr after treatment with Rhizobium sp. NGR234, with different hormones, or with Nod factors. Amounts of transcripts were dependent on the concentration of Nod factors. Accumulation of transcripts during nodule development correlated with root hair deformation, the first visible step in the Rhizobium-legume symbiosis.
Genetic changes in the development of endometrial carcinoma have not been characterized, and little is known of tumor or metastatic suppressor gene status in these malignancies. The current study on endometrioid carcinoma was undertaken to examine the status of two tumor suppressor genes that frequently have been found to be altered in human malignancies (the p53 gene and the retinoblastoma [Rb] gene) and to examine the status of the candidate metastatic suppressor gene, nm23-H1. The status of the p53 gene was studied by immunohistochemistry of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded biopsy samples from 72 patients with atypical endometrial hyperplasia or endometrioid carcinoma who underwent hysterectomy immediately after biopsy and from 5 patients with benign endometria. A search for loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the nm23 gene after DNA extraction from frozen tissues and hybridization with nm23-H1 cDNA specific probe was made in 10 endometrial carcinomas. Rb gene status was evaluated by image analysis quantification of immunoreactive retinoblastoma protein in frozen sections of 10 carcinomas and 2 benign endometria. p53 expression was low in all benign endometria, but high expression was found in 2 (15%) of 13 atypical hyperplasias and in 23 (39%) of 59 carcinomas. High levels of p53 expression in endometrioid carcinoma correlated with the spread of disease outside of the uterus and by logistic regression, the presence of squamous differentiation, nuclear grade, and high p53 expression in the biopsy all independently correlated with spread of disease outside of the uterus. Although 7 of the 10 carcinomas studied were informative, LOH for the nm23 gene was not seen in any, including a site of metastasis. Rb protein expression in endometrial carcinoma was similar to expression in benign endometria. Although this study found no evidence of nm23-H1 gene alteration or alterations in Rb protein levels in endometrial carcinoma, high expression of p53 protein was sporadically identified in biopsy specimens of atypical hyperplasia and frequently found in endometrioid carcinomas. Determination of p53 expression in combination with the presence or absence of squamous differentiation and nuclear grade in biopsy material may help predict spread of endometrioid carcinoma outside the uterus and facilitate therapeutic planning before hysterectomy.
Two different calmodulin (CaM) cDNAs (MBCaM-1 and MBCaM-2) were isolated from a vigna radiata lambda gt11 library by screening with a heterologous Arabidopsis cDNA probe (TCH-1). Both cDNAs are 85% homologous inside the coding region but are highly divergent outside this region. The polypeptides encoded by MBCaM-1 and MBCaM-2 are identical except for two conservative substitutions at positions 7 and 10. Southern analysis revealed that both cDNAs are encoded by different genes. Expression studies revealed different patterns of expression of both genes. MBCaM-1 mRNA exhibited a dramatic transient increase in response to touch, while MBCaM-2 expression showed a steady but small increase as compared to MBCaM-1. When plants were grown in complete darkness MBCaM-1 was undetectable and MBCaM-2 exhibited very low levels of expression. One hour after exposure of etiolated seedlings to light MBCaM-1 showed no change, while MBCaM-2 expression was increased. After a 6 h exposure to light there was an induction of both MBCaM-1 and MBCaM-2; however, the magnitude of this increase was much greater for MBCaM-2. When plants were grown under a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle the mRNA levels for MBCaM-1 were lower during the light period and increased during the beginning of the night cycle, while MBCaM-2 showed no change. Plants treated with indole-3-acetic acid had a peak in MBCaM-1 expression 6 h after treatment initiation with a slight decline 3 h after the peak, while MBCaM-2 showed a steady but small increase over time as compared to MBCaM-1. When plants were subjected to salt stress they showed an increase in MBCaM-1 expression 2 h after treatment initiation reaching a maximum after 4 h with no further increase after 6 h, while MBCaM-2 remained unchanged over the time course.
Nodules of tropical legumes generally export symbiotically fixed nitrogen in the form of ureides that are produced by oxidation of de novo synthesized purines. To investigate the regulation of de novo purine biosynthesis in these nodules, we have isolated cDNA clones encoding 5-aminoimidazole ribonucleotide (AIR) carboxylase and 5-aminoimidazole-4-N-succinocarboxamide ribonucleotide (SAICAR) synthetase from a mothbean (Vigna aconitifolia) nodule cDNA library by complementation of Escherichia coli purE and purC mutants, respectively. Sequencing of these clones revealed that the two enzymes are distinct proteins in mothbean, unlike in animals where both activities are associated with a single bifunctional polypeptide. As is the case in yeast, the mothbean AIR carboxylase has a N-terminal domain homologous to the eubacterial purK gene product. This PurK-like domain appears to facilitate the binding of CO2 and is dispensable in the presence of high CO2 concentrations. Because the expression of the mothbean PurE cDNA clone in E. coli apparently generates a truncated polypeptide lacking at least 140 N-terminal amino acids, this N-terminal region of the enzyme may not be essential for its CO2-binding activity.
By screening a mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) hypocotyl cDNA library using a combination of apple (pAE12) and tomato (pTOM13) 1-aminocyclopropane 1-carboxylate (ACC)-oxidase cDNAs as probes, putative ACC-oxidase clones were isolated. Based on restriction-enzyme map and DNA-sequencing analyses, they can be divided into two homology classes, represented by pVR-ACO1 and pVR-ACO2. While pVR-ACO1 and pVR-ACO2 exhibit close homology in their coding regions, their 3'-noncoding regions are divergent. pVR-ACO1 is a 1312-bp full-length clone and contains a single open reading frame encoding 317 amino acids (MW = 35.8 kDa), while pVR-ACO2 is 1172 bp long and is a partial cDNA clone encoding 308 amino acids. These two deduced amino-acid sequences share 83% identity, and display considerable sequence conservation (73-86%) to other ACC oxidases from various plant species. Northern blot analyses of RNAs isolated from hypocotyl, leaf, and stem tissues using gene-specific probes indicate that the pVR-ACO1 transcript is present in all parts of the seedling and that the expression in hypocotyls is further increased following excision. The maximum induction of ACC-oxidase transcripts occurred at about 6 h after excision, while the maximum enzyme activity was observed at 24 h. When excised hypocotyls were treated with ethylene a further enhanced level of transcripts was observed. Aminooxyacetic acid, an inhibitor of ACC-synthase activity, and 2,5-norbornadiene, an inhibitor of ethylene action, suppressed the wound-induced accumulation of ACC-oxidase mRNA, while an addition of ethylene in these tissues restored the accumulation of ACC-oxidase mRNA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The amino-acid sequence deduced from the nucleotide sequence of an auxin-regulated gene, ARG1, isolated from auxin-treated sections of mung-bean hypocotyls (Yamamoto et al. 1992, Plant Cell Physiol. 33, 13-20), is 69% identical to that of a delta 15 fatty-acid desaturase from Brassica napus L. that is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum. The ARG1 message is present at high levels in the hook portion of the hypocotyl, the plumule and the root tip of 3-d-old etiolated seedlings. The amino-acid sequence encoded by another auxin-regulated gene, ARG2, is 39% identical to that of an atypical late-embryogenesis-abundant (LEA) protein of cotton, LEA5-A. The ARG2 message is localized in the upper part of hypocotyls. Its abundance increases upon treatment of hypocotyl sections with fusicoccin, as well as with auxin. Determination of the distribution and kinetics of induction of mRNAs transcribed from the five auxin-regulated genes of mung bean, which include Aux22s and SAUR as well as ARG1 and ARG2, shows that they are heterogeneous in their mode of gene expression. The physiological implications of the homology between the two auxin-regulated genes and the genes for previously identified proteins are discussed in the context of auxin-induced elongation of the hypocotyl.
The two-component regulatory system Nod-VW of Bradyrhizobium japonicum is essential for the nodulation of the legume host plants Vigna radiata, V. unguiculata and Macroptilium atropurpureum. The NodV protein shares homology with the sensor-kinases, whereas the NodW protein is a member of the response-regulator class. We report here the identification of a new B. japonicum DNA region that is able to suppress the phenotypic defect of a nodW mutant, provided that this region is expressed from a foreign promoter. The minimal complementing region, which itself is not essential for nodulation in a nodW+ background, consists of one gene designated nwsB (nodW-suppressor). The deduced amino acid sequence of the nwsB gene product shows a high degree of homology to NodW. The nws B gene is preceded by a long open reading frame, nwsA, whose putative product appears to be a sensor-kinase. Downstream of nwsB, an open reading frame encoding a second putative response-regulator was identified. Interspecies hybridization revealed the presence of nwsAB-like DNA also in other Bradyrhizobium strains. Using nwsB'-'lacZ fusions, the nwsB gene was found to be expressed rather weakly in B. japonicum. This low level of expression is obviously not sufficient to compensate for a nodW- defect, whereas strong overexpression of nwsB is a condition that leads to suppression of the nodW- mutation.
This study describes the nascent RNA-binding protein of the pea chloroplast transcriptional complex. The protein has been identified by photoaffinity labelling of the transcriptionally active chromosome (TAC) which utilizes the endogenous plastid DNA as template. UV irradiation of lysed chloroplast or the isolated TAC under conditions optimized for transcription photocross-links nascent radiolabelled transcripts (up to 250 nucleotides in length) to a 48 kDa protein. The photoaffinity labelling of the transcript-binding protein is dependent on UV irradiation, is maximal after about 30 min of irradiation, and is completely dependent on transcriptional activity; no cross-linkage has been observed with pre-synthesized RNA. Cross-linkage is influenced by salts and inhibitors in accordance with their effects on transcription. The photoconjugate is composed of protein and RNA moieties, and can be hydrolysed by several proteases. However, the cross-linked transcript is protected from nucleases until the protein is removed. Manganese enhances photoaffinity labelling of the transcript-binding protein, and this is paralleled by an increase in total transcriptional activity of TAC. This protein was isolated by 2-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the sequence of 15 amino acid residues at the amino terminus was determined. The nascent transcript-binding protein appears to be involved in the transcription of all three classes of chloroplast genes. We also found a polypeptide of identical molecular weight to get cross-linked to nascent transcripts in chloroplasts isolated from other legumes such as Cicer arietenum, Vigna radiata and Phaseolus vulgaris, and monocots like Zea mays, Oryza sativa and Pennisetum americanum.
Pancreatic weights and composition were studied with rats fed diets containing raw legume seeds for up to 800 d. Rapid pancreatic enlargement was induced by dietary soybeans (Glycine max) (high Kunitz and Bowman-Birk trypsin inhibitor contents, moderate lectin content) during the initial 150 d. Over the next 200 d the rate of pancreatic growth was similar to that in controls. After 350 d a second period of rapid pancreatic growth occurred. Macroscopic pancreatic nodules were evident in a number of rats fed soybeans for 500 d or more. A similar pattern of pancreatic growth was observed in rats fed dietary cowpeas (Vigna unguiculata) (high Bowman-Birk inhibitor content, low lectin content). Extensive pancreatic growth was also found in young rats fed moderate dietary levels of kidney beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) (low Bowman-Birk inhibitor content, high lectin content). However, the trophic effects diminished with time, and from 100 d onwards, little enlargement was evident. Consumption of a lupinseed (Lupinus angustifolius) diet (low trypsin inhibitor, low lectin content) did not cause pancreatic enlargement. The initial pancreatic growth induced by dietary soybeans seemed to be due to the lectins and trypsin inhibitors, whereas the second period of pancreatic growth was possibly due primarily to the trypsin inhibitors.
The iron storage protein, ferritin, in plants can occur in multiple molecular forms that, until now, were proposed to be derived from degradation of a single mature polypeptide subunit (2,7,17), which is assembled into the holoprotein and functions in plastids. We have carried out some definitive experiments with the diploid legume, Vigna unguiculata (cowpeas), which show that there are functioning genes for three different ferritin subunits in the developing leaves. Unique segments of mRNAs which code for subunits with substantially different mature sequences were detected by PCR. Separate genes for each subunit were found by showing that each gene contained a unique intron. Thus, multiple molecular forms of ferritin can arise through differential expression of a family of genes in plants.
A nodulin-35 (N-35) cDNA encoding nodule-specific uricase (EC 1.7.3.3.) was isolated from a Vigna aconitifolia (mothbean) root nodule cDNA library. Sequence analysis of Vigna uricase (VN-35) cDNA revealed 90% homology to that of soybean. The VN-35 cDNA was inserted in the antisense orientation downstream of the caMV-35S promoter, and transgenic hairy roots were formed on Vigna plants using Agrobacterium rhizogenes. Infection with Bradyrhizobium (cowpea) gave rise to root nodules on transgenic hairy roots supported by the wild-type shoot. Expression of antisense VN-35 RNA was detected in transgenic nodules on individual roots using polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The nodules expressing antisense VN-35 RNA were smaller in size and showed lower uricase activity than nodules formed on the hairy roots transformed with a binary vector containing beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene (used as control), and the plants exhibited nitrogen deficiency symptoms. Ultrastructural analysis and immunogold labeling with antibody against soybean N-35 revealed that the growth of peroxisomes was retarded in transgenic nodules expressing antisense VN-35 RNA. These data suggest that a reduction in ureide biosynthesis limits the availability of symbiotically reduced nitrogen to the plant. The nodules of tropical legumes appear to be specialized in nitrogen assimilation and are developmentally controlled to produce and transport ureides.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata Walp) embryos mechanically isolated from mature seeds and incubated in the presence of plasmid DNA harboring chimeric gus genes were shown to germinate into seedlings expressing β-glucuronidase activity in a variety of tissues, including the apical meristem. Embryo electroporation in the presence of DNA and protectants such as spermine and Lipofectin(TM) increased both the proportion of embryo-derived seedlings expressing the chimeric gene and the level of gene expression. Microscopic observations of thin sections showed that the blue crystals representing the end product of transgene activity on X-glu were exclusively located inside the treated cells. Histological localization of the blue dye crystals varied with the promoter used to drive the transgene.
Ethylene causes the accumulation of seven different proteins (each designated AZxx according to its molecular mass, xx in kD) in excised primary leaves of azuki bean (Vigna angularis) (F. Ishige, H. Mori, K. Yamazaki, H. Imaseki [1991] Plant Cell Physiol 32: 681-690). A complementary DNA encoding an ethylene-induced basic glycoprotein, AZ42, from azuki bean was cloned and its complete nucleotide sequence was determined. Characterization of the cDNA was accomplished by monitoring expression of an immunoreactive protein in Escherichia coli that harbored the cDNA and by the identification of a partial amino acid sequence that was the same as that determined from the purified protein. An open reading frame (1071 base pairs) in the cDNA encoded a protein of 357 amino acids with a molecular mass of 39.3 kD. The amino acid sequence contained three regions that are highly conserved among peroxidases from eight different plants. Purified AZ42 exhibited peroxidase activity. The basic glycoprotein induced by ethylene was identified as a cationic isozyme of peroxidase. The corresponding mRNA was not present in leaves that had not been treated with ethylene, but it appeared after 1 h of treatment with ethylene and its level increased for the next 15 h. Accumulation of the mRNA was also induced after wounding or treatment with salicylate. The wound-induced increase in the level of the mRNA was suppressed by 2,5-norbornadiene, but the salicylate-induced increase was not.
SbPRP1 is a member of the soybean (Glycine max L. Merr) proline-rich cell wall protein family and is expressed at high levels in root tissue. To characterize the sequences required for this expression, we have fused 1.1 kb of upstream flanking DNA sequence from an SbPRP1 genomic clone to a gene encoding beta-glucuronidase (GUS). This construct was introduced into tobacco using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Histochemical staining of GUS activity in transgenic tobacco indicated that SbPRP1 is expressed in the apical and elongating region of both primary and lateral roots, most strongly in the epidermis. A similar localization pattern was found in transformed hairy roots when this construct was introduced into cowpea (Vigna aconitifolia) using Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated transformation. Nested 5'-deletion analysis of the SbPRP1 promoter indicated that a minimal promoter for SbPRP1 expression in roots is located within the first 262 bases of upstream flanking DNA and that the region between -1080 and -262 is required for maximal expression of this gene. Gel retardation assays showed that nuclear factors can be detected in soybean roots which specifically bind to sequences located between -1080 and -623, a region which is needed for maximal expression of the SbPRP1 promoter. Northern hybridization analysis was also used to show that little SbPRP1 mRNA was present in roots during the first 24 h after imbibition. These studies indicate that SbPRP1 expression is localized to the actively growing region of the root and that this expression is temporally regulated during very early stages of seedling growth.
A complementary DNA encoding an ethylene-inducible acidic chitinase of azuki bean (Vigna angularis) was isolated, and its complete nucleotide sequence was determined. The nucleotide and deduced amino-acid sequence were very similar to those of an acidic chitinase from cucumber leaves that had been infected with tobacco necrosis virus. The mRNA for the acidic chitinase was not detected in leaves of azuki bean that had not been treated with ethylene, but it appeared 3 h after initiation of treatment with ethylene and its level gradually increased over a period of 19 h. The mRNA also accumulated in response to salicylate or wounding. The expression of the gene in response to wounding was suppressed by 2,5-norbornadiene, but that in response to salicylate was not affected by this inhibitor.
Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) is a member of the comovirus group of messenger-sense RNA viruses with bipartite genomes, of which cowpea mosaic virus (CPMV) is the type member. Full-length copies of CPSMV RNA 1 were cloned in plasmids bearing a bacteriophage T7 promoter. Previously, similar clones of CPSMV RNA 2 had been obtained. A 5'-rUAUUAAAAUUUU sequence is common to RNA 1 and RNA 2. From two RNA 1 clones and four RNA 2 clones we excised non-CPSMV sequences so as to provide templates for in vitro transcripts that have only a single guanylate preceding CPSMV RNA sequences. Transcripts from the most active RNA 1 and RNA 2 clones, when mixed, showed about 5% of the infectivity of unfractionated CPSMV RNAs from virions. The longest, 1858 codon open reading frame of the 5957 nt CPSMV RNA 1 extends from an AUG at nt 257 to a UGA termination codon at nt 5831. The calculated molecular weight of the polyprotein is 208,000. Comparisons with the available amino acid residue (aa) sequence information from the complete CPMV RNA 1 sequence and the partial sequence of red clover mottle virus RNA 1 suggest that CPSMV RNA 1 specifies the expected set of five mature proteins: 32K proteinase cofactor, 58K presumed helicase, VPg 5'-linked protein of the genomic RNAs, 24K proteinase, and 87K presumed polymerase, separated by four cleavage sites. Of the determined and deduced cleavage sites of the three RNA 1 polyproteins, only that at the 24K/87K junction has a distinct aa pair in the CPSMV polyprotein. Of the five proteins, VPg and 87K show the greatest similarity between CPSMV and CPMV, with identities of 68 and 55%, respectively. Published mutational analysis of the CPMV 24K proteinase and alignment of aa sequences from three comoviruses suggest that cysteine-168, histidine-40 and glutamic acid-77 form the catalytic triad of the CPSMV 24K proteinase. Results are discussed in the context of the resistance that some cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) lines exhibit against CPMV but not against CPSMV.
We have cloned and sequenced the pckA gene of Rhizobium sp. NGR234, a broad host-range strain. The gene encodes phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK), a key enzyme of gluconeogenesis. The locus was isolated and subcloned from a genomic library of NGR234 employing hybridization with an R. meliloti pck gene probe and complementation of a Tn5 mutant in this species. The DNA sequence of pckA (NGR234) was determined and encoded a PEPCK protein of 535 amino acids with a molecular weight of 58.4 kDa. The deduced polypeptide sequence was compared to those of three known ATP-dependent PEPCKs. Slightly higher homology was observed with yeast and trypanosome polypeptides than with that of Escherichia coli. We have identified several regions that are conserved in all four PEPCK proteins. A mutant constructed in the pck gene by site-directed mutagenesis with interposon omega failed to grow on succinate, malate and arabinose but grew on glucose and glycerol as sole carbon sources. These data show that NGR234 requires PEPCK-driven gluconeogenesis to grow on TCA cycle intermediates. A host-dependent effect of the pckA mutation was observed on nodule development and nitrogen fixation. Nodules formed by the site-directed mutant on Leucaena leucocephala and Macroptilium atropurpureum were FixRed, but on Vigna unguiculata were Fix-. The expression of the gene was positively regulated in free-living cells of NGR234 by either succinate or host-plant exudates, and was subject to catabolite repression by glucose.
The human proto-oncogene c-MET encodes a heterodimeric 190 kDa transmembrane protein (p190c-met) with structural features of a tyrosine kinase receptor. The ligand for this putative receptor has not yet been identified. By Northern blot hybridization we found that, among a restricted number of human tissues, c-MET is highly expressed in the liver. This prompted us to test the hypothesis of a functional interaction between the c-MET receptor and Hepatocyte Growth Factor (HGF), a heparin-binding polypeptide consisting of heavy and light chains of 65 and 35 kDa. Nanomolar concentrations of highly purified HGF added to GTL-16 cells, which overexpress the c-MET receptor, enhanced the phosphorylation on tyrosine of the p190c-met kinase. Addition of other known growth factors or serum was ineffective. The kinase activity of the c-MET receptor was also stimulated by HGF in an in vitro assay, after detergent solubilization and partial purification of p190c-met. Moreover, elution of immunoprecipitates obtained with anti-MET antibodies from GTL-16 cell lysates yielded an HGF-responsive kinase activity. These results suggest that HGF, or a growth factor structurally related to HGF, is a candidate ligand for the receptor encoded by c-MET.
Subrepeats located in the rDNA intergenic spacer are also present as independently occurring, tandemly arranged satellite DNA clusters in the genome of Vigna radiata (mung bean). These 174-bp satellite repeats are identified as non-rDNA repeats by the presence of an AluI site. In the closely related Vigna angularis (adzuki bean), 174-bp repeats characterized by an AluI site occur in the rDNA with high sequence homology to the V. radiata rDNA subrepeats. A part of the 174-bp element that shows high similarity to a Xenopus terminator box (T2/T3) is slightly modified in V. angularis. However, a characteristic stem-loop structure can be formed, as in the case of V. radiata. Two highly conserved 12-bp regions occur within the 174-bp rDNA repeats of the two plants investigated. One of these 12-bp stretches exhibits some sequence identity to an element repeated twice in the 325-bp repeats in the intergenic spacer region of Vicia faba (broad bean).
Rhizobium species strain NGR234 nodulates at least 35 diverse genera of legumes as well as the nonlegume Parasponia andersonii. Most nodulation genes are located on the 500-kilobase pair symbiotic plasmid, pNGR234a. Previously, three plasmid-borne host range determinants (HsnI, HsnII, and HsnIII) were identified by their ability to extend the nodulation capacity of heterologous rhizobia to include Vigna unguiculata. In this study, we show that HsnII contains two new nod-box linked hsn genes, nodS and nodU.nodS controls nodulation of the tropical tree Leucaena leucocephala, while the nodSU genes regulate nodulation of the pasture legume Desmodium intortum and the grain legume V. unguiculata. Regulation of the nod-box upstream of nodSU by the flavonoid naringenin was shown using a fusion with a promoterless lacZ gene. Determination of the nucleotide sequence of the nodS gene did not reveal homology with any gene in the EMBL library, although Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110 contains both nodS and nodU (M. Göttfert, S. Hitz, and H. Hennecke, Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions 3:308-316, 1990). We suggest that broad host range in NGR234 is controlled in part by a nodD gene which interacts with a wide range of flavonoids, and in part by host-specific nod genes such as nodS.
Inoculation of 2-day-old cowpea (Vigna unguiculata [L.] Walp.) seedlings with Rhizobium fredii USDA257 results in proficient nodulation of the tap root. The most abundant nodulation occurs in a region roughly corresponding to the position of the root tip at the time of inoculation. We have examined plant gene expression in this region, after inoculation with either USDA257 or a nonnodulating mutant, 257B3. After isolation of mRNA and in vitro translation, the protein products were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Seven proteins are induced within 2.5 days after inoculation with USDA257. One additional induced protein is detectable by 3.5 days after inoculation, and three more appear by day 6. Three of the proteins that are differentially expressed at 2.5 and 3.5 days after inoculation are produced at equivalent levels after 6 days, indicating transient induction of these genes during early stages of nodule development. Several proteins were more abundant in translations of mRNA from roots that had been inoculated with the nonnodulating mutant. This was particularly true after 6 days, when nine proteins were in this class. Thus, altered plant gene expression in carefully selected, highly responsive tissue can be detected 2 days before emerging nodules are visible on the roots, and 6 to 7 days before acetylene reduction is detectable. Additionally, comparisons of ionically bound cell wall proteins isolated 6 days after inoculation revealed four that were unique to nodulating roots, suggesting that some of the nodulation-induced genes may code for structural proteins.
In mung bean (Vigna radiata, formerly Phaseolus aureus) one length heterogeneity in the intergenic spacer (IGS) of the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) is due to a variable number of 175-bp subrepeats. This spacer region downstream of the 25S rRNA coding region was characterized by sequencing the 2.4 kb EcoRI/HindIII fragment of a 10.5 kb mung bean rDNA repeat. Within the 175-bp repetitive elements a sequence was detected showing strong similarity to the T2/T3-box (GACTTGC) found in Xenopus rDNA and involved in termination and enhancing transcription. In mung bean this sequence partly forms the stem of a possible stem-loop structure at the 3'end of each subrepeat. Nuclease mapping of transcription termination sites (TTS) results in two signals, 65 bp and 315 bp downstream of the 3'end of the 25S rRNA coding region. The longer transcript terminates 20 bp downstream of the stem-loop structure at the end of the first 175-bp subrepeat. A spacer model is proposed which allows "readthrough enhancement". No cross-hybridization was observed between the 180-bp subrepeats in pea (Pisum sativum) rDNA and the mung bean 175-bp subrepeat.
Products of the gastrin-releasing peptide gene were isolated from culture medium supernatant of a small cell lung cancer line, NCI-H345, by several (high performance liquid chromatography) HPLC steps. The column eluates were monitored by immunoassay and absorbance profiles. Gastrin-releasing peptide was identified in HPLC eluates by a specific radioimmunoassay. Two carboxyl-terminal gastrin-releasing peptide gene-associated peptides were identified by a radioimmunoassay specific for their predicted carboxyl terminus. The amino termini of these two peptides were determined by microsequence analysis. The shorter peptide was revealed to be a fragment of the larger peptide. Expression of an alternate mRNA was shown by isolation and characterization of a novel tetradecapeptide. Amino acid analysis, microsequence analysis, and mass spectral analysis confirmed that the structure was Ser-Leu-Leu-Gln-Val-Leu-Asn-Val-Lys-Glu-Gly-Thr-Pro-Ser. This peptide represents the carboxyl terminus of a peptide resulting from alternate processing of gastrin releasing peptide mRNA. This mRNA contains a 19-base deletion, creating a frame shift. A radioiodinated synthetic analog of this peptide (Tyr-Leu-Val-Asp-Ser-Leu-Leu-Gln-Val-Leu-Asn-Val-Lys-Glu-Gly-Thr-Pro-Ser ) bound specifically to a small cell cancer line with high affinity, suggesting possible biological activity of the isolated peptide.
Transfer of the strain NGR234nodD 1 gene into the narrow host range R. trifolii strain ANU843 on either a 6.7-kb HindIII or 17-kb XhoI fragment broadens the host range of this bacterium to include the tropical legumes Vigna unguiculata, Glycine ussuriensis, Leucaena leucocephala, and siratro (Macroptilium atropurpureum). Contrary to previous data (Bassam et al. 1986), mutagenesis of the 17-kb XhoI fragment with a mini-Mu lac transposon (Mu dII1734) showed that a functional nodD 1 gene was essential for extended host range. Gene expression studies using both Mu dII1734 fusions and a promoter-cloning vector indicated that several loci, including the nodD 1 gene, are constitutively expressed. No evidence was found for regulation of the strain NGR234 nodD 1 gene by its product. Another locus nod-81, was induced only in the presence of exudates from various plant species, including soybean (Glycine max). Whereas the expression of nod-81 was dependent on the presence of a functional nodD 1 gene product, a regulatory nod-box DNA sequence was not detected 5' to this gene by using available oligonucleotide hybridization probes. The nod-81 locus was induced by genistein, daidzein, naringenin, and coumestrol from both cotyledon and root tissue of freshly germinated soybean seedlings. A broad spectrum of commercially available phenolic compounds stimulated induction of the nod-81 locus, including some that antagonize nod gene induction in other Rhizobium species. The nodD 1 gene product from strain NGR234 was shown to determine the spectrum of compounds that induce nod-81 expression.
Previous work has established that the central nervous system can modulate the immune response. Direct routes through which this regulation may occur are the sympathetic and sensory innervation of lymphoid organs. We investigated the innervation of canine mesenteric lymph nodes using immunohistochemistry and the expression of binding sites for sensory neuropeptides using quantitative receptor autoradiography. The sympathetic innervation of lymph nodes was examined by immunohistochemical methods using an antiserum directed against tyrosine hydroxylase (TOH), the rate limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis. TOH-containing fibers were associated with 90% of the blood vessels (arteries, veins, arterioles and venules) in the hilus, medullary and internodular regions of lymph nodes and in trabeculae with no obvious relationship to blood vessels. The sensory innervation of lymph nodes was investigated using antisera directed against the putative sensory neurotransmitters calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P (SP). CGRP- and SP-containing fibers were detected in the hilus, the medullary region, and the internodular region of lymph nodes usually in association with arterioles and venules. About 50% of the arterioles and venules exhibited a CGRP innervation and a smaller fraction (5-10%) were innervated by SP-containing fibers. Few if any TOH, CGRP, and SP nerve fibers were detected in the germinal centers of lymph nodes. Using quantitative receptor autoradiography we studied the distribution of receptor binding sites for the sensory neuropeptides CGRP, SP, substance K (SK), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), somatostatin (SOM), and bombesin. Specific CGRP binding sites were expressed throughout lymph nodes by trabeculae, arterioles, venules and 25% of the germinal centers. SP receptor binding sites were localized to arterioles and venules in the T cell regions and 25-30% of the germinal centers. VIP binding sites were localized to the internodular and T cell regions, to medullary cords, and to 10-20% of germinal centers. SK, SOM, and bombesin binding sites were not detected in the lymph nodes, although receptor binding sites for these peptides were detected with high specific/nonspecific binding ratios in other canine peripheral tissues. Taken together with previous results these findings suggest that the sympathetic and sensory innervation of mesenteric lymph nodes appears to be involved with the regulation of their blood and lymph flow. The neuropeptide receptor binding sites in lymph node germinal centers may be expressed by lymphocytes upon activation by antigens.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Random transcription fusions with Mu d1(Kan lac) generated three mutants in Rhizobium fredii (strain USDA 201) which showed induction of beta-galactosidase when grown in root exudate of the host plants Glycine max, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Vigna ungliculata. Two genes were isolated from a library of total plasmid DNA of one of the mutants, 3F1. These genes, present in tandem on a 4.2-kilobase HindIII fragment, appear in one copy each on the symbiotic plasmid and do not hybridize to the Rhizobium meliloti common nodulation region. They comprise two separate transcriptional units coding for about 450 and 950 nucleotides, both of which are transcribed in the same direction. The two open reading frames are separated by 586 base pairs, and the 5H regions of the two genes show a common sequence. No similarity was found with the promoter areas of Rhizobium trifolii, R. meliloti, or Bradyrhizobium japonicum nif genes and with any known nodulation genes. Regions homologous to both sequences were detected in EcoRI digests of genomic DNAs from B. japonicum USDA 110, USDA 122, and 61A76, but not in genomic DNA from R. trifolii, Rhizobium leguminosarum, or Rhizobium phaseoli. Mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance analysis indicated that the inducing compound has properties of 4',7-dihydroxyisoflavone, daidzein. These results suggest that, in addition to common nodulation genes, several other genes appear to be specifically induced by compounds in the root exudate of the host plants.
Direct gene transfer proved to be an efficient transformation method for Vigna aconitifolia, a member of the legume family. Kanamycin resistant calli and plants were regenerated from heat shocked protoplasts treated with PEG and plasmid DNA containing the coding region for aminoglycoside phosphotransferase gene (NPT II). The plant cultivar used was an important factor in attaining higher transformation frequencies. Transformation was confirmed by Southern blot analysis using a non-radioactive detection system. Attempts to transform mesophyll and suspension cultured cells by this method were unsuccessful. Protoplasts electroporated with the plasmid pCAP212, which codes for chloramphenicol acetyltransferase, exhibited transient expression of this gene two days after treatment while electroporated cells did not show this enzyme activity. It is therefore assumed that the DNA uptake is prevented by the cell wall.
We have found major evolutionary changes in the types of transcripts produced by specific chloroplast genes, in particular those encoding the large subunit (LS) of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase and a photosystem II polypeptide (PII). Two distinct patterns of LS gene transcripts are revealed by hybridizing an LS gene probe to electrophoretically separated RNA from 19 angiosperms. Most species, including pea, contain the single transcript of approximately 1.6 kb previously observed in corn, spinach and mustard. However, in mung bean and other members of the legume genera Vigna and Phaseolus, the 1.6 kb transcript represents only a minor fraction of LS transcripts, and instead, two larger LS transcripts of approximately 2.4 and 2.6 kb predominate. The PII gene produces a single transcript in pea and most other species examined, while members of the related legume genera Vigna, Phaseolus and Glycine contain two additional transcripts which are smaller in size and probably represent specific RNA breakdown products. A single species, sweet pea (Lathyrus odoratus), contains a second PII transcript which is 0.2 kb larger than the approximately 1.2 kb transcript found in all species. The LS and PII genes map to the same 5 kb region in both pea and mung bean and are transcribed off the same DNA strand. In contrast, published studies indicate that the two genes are approximately 50 kb apart and are transcribed off opposite DNA strands in five other chloroplast genomes. These differences are probably the consequence of an approximately 50 kb inversion which distinguishes the pea and mung bean genomes from those of most other angiosperms (1).
Chloroplast and whole leaf cell RNA from Vigna sinensis, a C3 plant were used as exogenous templates for translation in a cell-free light-dependent system of isolated chloroplasts from Sorghum vulgare, a C4-type plant. Analysis of immunoprecipitates of the translated products with the total cellular RNA on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gels revealed the synthesis of both the subunits of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase. Similar analysis of the product translated with the RNA from Vigna chloroplasts, indicated the synthesis of only the large subunit of the carboxylase. Apparently the chloroplast protein synthetic machinery is capable of translating the mRNA for the smaller subunit of this protein as well, which is known to be translated in the cytoplasmic ribosomal system. Sufficient quantities of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase were synthesised in vitro in the preincubated chloroplast system with the whole cell RNA from the C3 plant to assay the ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate-dependent carboxylation. The newly synthesised protein in the cell-free system is identical in many ways to the native enzyme including the Mg2+ concentration-dependent shift in pH optima towards neutral side. It is specifically inhibited by anti-native ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate.
The TCP gene family encodes plant-specific transcription factors that regulate plant growth, development, and stress responses. Although this gene family has been widely studied in various species, its function in mung bean (
In this study, the A total of 11,433 and 12,063 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified at CK (Control, non-inoculated) versus T24 h (24 hpi) and CK versus T4 d (4 dpi), respectively. Plant hormone signal transduction pathways exhibited the highest number of DEGs at 24 hpi, while plant-pathogen interaction pathways were dominant at 4 dpi. Key genes in these pathways include PR-1 (Pathogenesis-Related protein 1), PPR (Pentatricopeptide Repeat protein), and F-box (F-box Kelch-repeat protein). Additionally, the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway, which is involved in lignin and flavonoid synthesis, plays a crucial role in disease resistance. Important genes involved in this pathway, such as PAL, C4H, 4CL, CHS, and CHI, were found to be significantly enriched. Furthermore, the WRKY transcription factor family was identified as a key regulator of multiple metabolic pathways related to disease resistance. The findings provide a comprehensive understanding of the key molecular factors involved in alfalfa's response to
Mungbean ( Here, we screened six genotypes with consistently high and low content of major secondary metabolites (gallic acid, chlorogenic acid, neo-chlorogenic acid, genistin, formononetin, catechin, syringic acid, and resveratrol) across environmental replicates. Transcriptome data obtained from the individual genotypes were pooled into two groups: high and low levels of secondary metabolites. Of the 200 differentially expressed genes identified using stringent criteria, 23 were annotated in the secondary metabolite pathway. By combining the results of the secondary metabolite and transcriptome data, we identified six key genes encoding four enzymes ( These results provide information on the common genetic factors involved in the production of secondary metabolites, which can improve the nutritional value of mungbeans and contribute to the development of elite mungbean cultivars.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) rust, caused by the fungus Uromyces vignae, is an important disease affecting adzuki bean yield and quality. Previously, several NAC transcription factors (TFs) were induced by rust infection in a resistant adzuki bean variety, suggesting that NAC TF members may play important roles in rust resistance. To further explore the functions of NAC TFs in rust resistance and to provide a reference for resistant varietal breeding, 101 NAC TFs were identified from the adzuki bean genome. The synteny analysis revealed 25 pairs of VaNACs in the genome, which exhibited whole-genome/segmental duplication. Based on the phylogenetic relationships and conserved motif characteristics, the NAC TFs of V. angularis can be divided into 16 subfamilies. Previous transcriptome data showed that nine VaNACs are significantly induced by rust infection. Here, a cis-acting element analysis of these nine genes revealed that most contain hormone responsive elements, such as abscisic acid and methyl jasmonate (MeJA). The expression levels of these nine VaNACs were dynamically regulated in response to exogenous MeJA treatment, as revealed by quantitative real-time PCR analysis. Among them, seven VaNACs exhibited significantly upregulated expression, peaking at 12 h post treatment (hpt) and remaining significantly higher than that of the untreated control group for 48 hpt. These results suggest that these VaNACs are responsive to MeJA signaling and may play roles in the early and sustained transcriptional regulation of stress-related pathways. The exogenous MeJA decreased rust severity on adzuki bean leaves by 45.68%. Additionally, the expression levels of these nine genes in adzuki bean leaves in response to rust infection after pretreatment with MeJA were investigated. The expression of VaNAC002 rapidly peaked at 24 h post inoculation (hpi) and remained significantly higher than the control from 120 to 192 hpi. Subsequently, transient overexpression of VaNAC002 significantly enhanced the resistance of tobacco to Botrytis cinerea, indicating that VaNAC002 positively regulates plant disease resistance. These findings suggest that adzuki bean NAC family members may play important roles in disease resistance through JA signaling, with VaNAC002 having a positive regulatory role in plant immunity.
To investigate the mechanism of pod dehiscence in adzuki bean, RNA sequencing was utilized to analyze transcriptomes in the ventral and dorsal sutures of pods from two dehiscence-resistant accessions and two dehiscence-susceptible accessions. A total of 943 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. Through the Gene Ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) metabolic enrichment pathways, 34 genes related to pod dehiscence were identified. The genes associated with pod dehiscence primarily encode enzymes involved in cell wall modification, including pectin esterase, cellulose synthase, glucosyltransferase, glycoside hydrolase, D-galactosidase, peroxidases, and transcription factors from the MADS-box gene family. The genes exhibit significant enrichment in pathways such as "Pentose and glucuronate interconversions," "Galactose metabolism," "Fructose and mannose metabolism," "Starch and sucrose metabolism," and "Biosynthesis of secondary metabolites." These components primarily play a role in modifying the cell wall, regulating the biochemistry of cells in the dehiscence zone of the pod, and influencing the physiological and metabolic processes of the ventral and dorsal sutures of the pod. This study examined transcript level variations between adzuki bean varieties resistant and susceptible to pod dehiscence, specifically focusing on the ventral and dorsal sutures. The findings offer novel perspectives for elucidating the pod dehiscence regulatory network in adzuki bean and provide valuable genetic resources to guide pod dehiscence-resistant breeding in adzuki bean. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-025-04255-z.
Several mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) cultivars are susceptible to Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by Cercospora canescens Ellis & Martin, and it is necessary to explore resistance sources and understand resistance mechanisms. However, the CLS resistance mechanisms have not yet been explored. The response to CLS revealed significantly different disease severity scores in both mungbean genotypes. Hypersensitive response (HR) started to appear at 2 days after inoculation (DAI) in SUPER5 but was never observed in CN84-1. SUPER5 exhibited fewer and smaller lesions than CN84-1 during CLS infection, resulting in SUPER5 being resistant while CN84-1 was susceptible to CLS. In this study, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis was used to unravel the mechanisms of resistance to CLS in a resistant line (SUPER5) and a susceptible variety (CN84-1) upon CLS infection. A total of 9510 DEGs including 4615 up-regulated and 4895 down-regulated genes were revealed. Of these 3242 and 1027 genes were uniquely up-regulated only in the SUPER5 and CN84-1, respectively, while 2902 and 734 genes were down-regulated only in SUPER5 and CN84-1, respectively. The 843 DEGs were enriched in biological processes mainly associated with plant defense responses, defense response to fungus, protein phosphorylation and response to chitin in Gene Ontology (GO) terms analysis. KEGG pathway analysis showed that these genes were represented in plant-pathogen interaction, the MAPK signaling pathway, plant hormone signal transduction, and cell wall component biosynthesis in response to the CLS infection specifically in SUPER5. In addition, the qRT-PCR was used to analyze the expression pattern of 22 candidate DEGs belonging to pathogenesis related (PR) proteins, resistance (R) proteins, transcription factors, hypersensitive response (HR), and the essential genes involved in cell wall activity during CLS-infected V. radiata. It was found that the expression of these genes was consistent with the RNA-seq analysis, showing a highly significant correlation with a coefficient of 0.7163 (p < 0.01). The co-expression network illustrated the interactions among these genes, which were involved in multiple functions related to the defense response. Interestingly, the ones encoding PR-2, thaumatin, peroxidase, defensin, RPM1, pectinesterase, chalcone synthase, auxin efflux carrier, and transcription factors (Pti1, Pti5, Pti6 and WRKY40) were highly significantly up-regulated in SUPER5 but not in CN84-1 upon CLS infection, suggesting that they might be involved in the CLS resistance mechanisms. Moreover, SUPER5 was found to have higher β-1,3-glucanase and chitinase activity levels than CN84-1. Our findings contribute to an understanding of the CLS resistance mechanisms and may advocate the development of more effective disease management approaches.
Rice bean is an underutilized legume crop cultivated in Asia, and it is a good source of protein, minerals, and essential fatty acids for human consumption. Moreover, the leaves left over after harvesting rice bean seeds contain various biological constituents beneficial to humans and animals. In our study, we performed a de-novo transcriptome assembly of rice bean, characterized the WRKY transcription factors, and studied their response to aluminum stress. A total of 46.6 million clean reads, with a GC value of 43%, were generated via transcriptome sequencing. De novo assembly of the clean reads resulted in 90,933 transcripts and 74,926 unigenes, with minimum and maximum lengths of 301 bp and 24,052 bp, and N50 values of 1801 bp and 1710 bp, respectively. A total of 27,095 and 28,378 unigenes were annotated and subjected to GO and KEGG analyses. Among the unigenes, 15,593, 20,770, and 15,385 unigenes were identified in the domains of biological process, molecular function, and cellular component, respectively. A total of 16,132 unigenes were assigned to 188 pathways, including metabolic pathways (5500) and secondary metabolite biosynthesis (2858). Transcription factor analysis revealed 4860 unigenes from 98 different transcription factor families. For WRKY, a total of 95 unigenes were identified. Further analysis revealed the diverse response of WRKY transcription factors to aluminum stress. Collectively, the results of this study boost genomic resources and provide a baseline for further research on the role of WRKY transcription factors in aluminum tolerance in rice bean.
Plants activate induced defenses through the recognition of molecular patterns. Like pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), herbivore-associated molecular patterns (HAMPs) can be recognized by cell surface pattern recognition receptors leading to defensive transcriptional changes in host plants. Herbivore-induced defensive outputs are regulated by the circadian clock, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. To investigate how the plant circadian clock regulates transcriptional reprogramming of a specific HAMP-induced pathway, we characterized the daytime and nighttime transcriptional response to caterpillar-derived In11 peptide, in the legume crop cowpea (
Calmodulin-binding transcription activator (CAMTA) is comprised of a group of transcription factors and plays an important role in the Ca Eight paralogous VrCAMTA genes were identified and found to be distributed on five of the 11 chromosomes. The proteins possessed CG-1 DNA-binding domains with bipartite NLS signals, ankyrin domains, CaM-binding IQ motifs, and CaM-binding domain (CaMBD). The 2 kb upstream regions of VrCAMTA genes contained sequence motifs of abscisic acid-responsive elements (ABRE) and ethylene-responsive elements (ERE), and binding sites for transcription factors of the bZIP and bHLH domains. Analysis of RNA-seq data from a public repository revealed ubiquitous expression of the VrCAMTA genes, as VrCAMTA1 was expressed at the highest level in seedling leaves, whereas VrCAMTA8 was expressed at the lowest level, which agreed with the RT-qPCR analysis performed on the first true leaves. On day four after leaf emergence, all VrCAMTA genes were upregulated, with VrCAMTA1 exhibiting the highest degree of upregulation. In darkness on day 4, upregulation was not observed in most VrCAMTA genes, except VrCAMTA7, for which a low degree of upregulation was found, whereas no difference was found in VrCAMTA8 expression between light and dark conditions. Treatment with calcium ionophores enhanced VrCAMTA expression under light and/or dark conditions at different times after leaf emergence, suggesting that calcium signaling is involved in the light-induced upregulation of VrCAMTA gene expression. The expression dependence of nearly all VrCAMTA genes on light and calcium signaling suggests their possible differential but likely complementary roles during the early stages of mung bean growth and development.
The TATA-box binding protein (TBP) and TBP-associated factors (TAFs) constitute the transcription factor IID (TFIID), a crucial component of RNA polymerase II, essential for transcription initiation and regulation. Several TFIID subunits are shared with the Spt-Ada-Gcn5-acetyltransferase (SAGA) coactivator complex. Recent research has revealed the roles of TBP and TAFs in organogenesis and stress adaptation. In this study, we identified 1 TBP and 21 putative TAFs in the mungbean genome, among which
In plants, WRKY transcription factors play a crucial role in plant growth, development, and response to abiotic and biotic stress. Cowpea (
The adzuki bean is a typical short-day plant and an important grain crop that is widely used due to its high nutritional and medicinal value. The adzuki bean flowering time is affected by multiple environmental factors, particularly the photoperiod. Adjusting the day length can induce flower synchronization in adzuki bean and accelerate the breeding process. In this study, we used RNA sequencing analysis to determine the effects of different day lengths on gene expression and metabolic characteristics related to adzuki bean flowering time. 'Tangshan hong xiao dou' was used as the experimental material in this study and field experiments were conducted in 2022 using a randomized block design with three treatments: short-day induction periods of 5 d (SD-5d), 10 d (SD-10d), and 15 d (SD-15d). A total of 5,939 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, of which 38.09% were up-regulated and 23.81% were down-regulated. Gene ontology enrichment analysis was performed on the target genes to identify common functions related to photosystems I and II. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis identified two pathways involved in the antenna protein and circadian rhythm. Furthermore, florescence was promoted by down-regulating genes in the circadian rhythm pathway through the blue light metabolic pathway; whereas, antenna proteins promoted flowering by enhancing the reception of light signals and accelerating electron transport. In these two metabolic pathways, the number of DEGs was the greatest between the SD-5d VS SD-15d groups. Real-time reverse transcription‒quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis results of eight DEGs were consistent with the sequencing results. Thus, the sequencing results were accurate and reliable and eight genes were identified as candidates for the regulation of short-day induction at the adzuki bean seedling stage. Short-day induction was able to down-regulate the expression of genes related to flowering according to the circadian rhythm and up-regulate the expression of certain genes in the antenna protein pathway. The results provide a theoretical reference for the molecular mechanism of short-day induction and multi-level information for future functional studies to verify the key genes regulating adzuki bean flowering.
Cowpea wilt is a harmful disease caused by Fusarium oxysporum, leading to substantial losses in cowpea production. Melatonin reportedly regulates plant immunity to pathogens; however the specific regulatory mechanism underlying the protective effect of melatonin pretreated of cowpea against Fusarium oxysporum remains known. Accordingly, the study sought to evaluate changes in the physiological and biochemical indices of cowpea following melatonin treated to facilitate Fusarium oxysporum resistance and elucidate the associated molecular mechanism using a weighted gene coexpression network. Treatment with 100 µM melatonin was effective in increasing cowpea resistance to Fusarium oxysporum. Glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX), catalase (CAT), and salicylic acid (SA) levels were significantly upregulated, and hydrogen peroxide (H The study elucidated changes in the expression of genes associated with the response of cowpea to Fusarium oxysporum under melatonin treated. Specifically, multiple defence mechanisms were initiated to improve cowpea resistance to Fusarium oxysporum.
Drought stress has become an important limiting factor in mung bean production, and NAC(NAM/ATAF/CUC) transcription factors are crucial for plant growth under stress conditions, so it is important to study the regulatory role of NAC transcription factors in mung bean under drought stress. In this investigation, VrNAC15, along with its promoter, was cloned, and its structure was meticulously analyzed. Using qPCR, we examined the tissue-specific expression patterns of VrNAC15, particularly under drought stress and ABA exposure. Additionally, We performed ectopic expression of VrNAC15 in Arabidopsis to assess its function.. Gene sequence analysis revealed that VrNAC15 has a total length of 1014 bp, encoding 337 amino acids. It contains a NAM domain, localizes within the nucleus, and exhibits transcriptional activation. Promoter analysis of VrNAC15 identified essential core promoter elements and cis-acting elements related to abscisic acid, methyl jasmonate, gibberellin, adversity stress, light, and metabolism. Expression analysis demonstrated the concentration of VrNAC15 in leaves, with significant alterations following ABA and drought treatments in mung beans. Cluster analysis revealed that VrNAC15 may enhanced drought tolerance in transgenic plants through its expression. Transgenic experiments supported these findings, showing that heterologous expression of VrNAC15 led to enhanced antioxidant and osmotic adjustment capabilities in Arabidopsis plants. This resulted in the maintenance of cell membrane structural integrity during drought stress and normal physiological and biochemical metabolic reactions within cells. This research provides valuable insights into the structural and functional characteristics of the VrNAC15, setting the stage for future endeavors in molecular breeding for improved drought resistance in mung beans.
TCP transcription factors are known to regulate abiotic stress condition, but their role in The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-024-03976-x.
The SPL gene family (for Squamosa Promoter-binding like Proteins) represents specific transcription factors that have significant roles in abiotic stress tolerance, development and the growth processes of different plants, including initiation of the leaf, branching and development of shoot and fruits. The SPL gene family has been studied in different plant species; however, its role is not yet fully explored in pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan ). In the present study, 11 members of the CcSPL gene family were identified in C. cajan . The identified SPLs were classified into nine groups based on a phylogenetic analysis involving SPL protein sequences from C. cajan , Arabidopsis thaliana , Cicer arietinum , Glycine max , Phaseolus vulgaris , Vigna unguiculata and Arachis hypogaea . Further, the identification of gene structure, motif analysis, domain analysis and presence of cis -regulatory elements in the SPL family members were studied. Based on RNA-sequencing data, gene expression analysis was performed, revealing that CcSPL2.1, 3 and 13A were significantly upregulated for salt-tolerance and CcSPL14 and 15 were upregulated in a salt-susceptible cultivar. Real-time qPCR validation indicated that CcSPL3, 4, 6 and 13A were upregulated under salt stress conditions. Therefore, molecular docking was performed against the proteins of two highly expressed genes (CcSPL3 and CcSPL14 ) with three ligands: abscisic acid, gibberellic acid and indole-3-acetic acid. Afterward, their binding affinity was obtained and three-dimensional structures were predicted. In the future, our study may open avenues for harnessing CcSPL genes in pigeon pea for enhanced abiotic stress resistance and developmental traits.
In different regions of the world, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is an important vegetable and an excellent source of protein. It lessens the malnutrition of the underprivileged in developing nations and has some positive effects on health, such as a reduction in the prevalence of cancer and cardiovascular disease. However, occasionally, certain biotic and abiotic stresses caused a sharp fall in cowpea yield. Major RNA interference (RNAi) genes like Dicer-like (DCL), Argonaute (AGO), and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR) are essential for the synthesis of their associated factors like domain, small RNAs (sRNAs), transcription factors, micro-RNAs, and
Black mung bean is rich in anthocyanin, however, the accumulation and the molecular mechanism of anthocyanin synthesis in black mung bean are unclear. In this study, anthocyanin metabolomics and transcriptomics on the seed coats of two different colors of mung bean were performed to clarify the composition of anthocyanins, and identify transcription factors involved in regulating anthocyanin biosynthesis. In the mature stage, 23 kinds of anthocyanin compounds were identified. All anthocyanin components contents were significantly higher in seed coat of black mung bean compare with green mung bean. Transcriptome analysis suggested that most of the structural genes for anthocyanin biosynthesis and some potential regulatory genes were significantly differentially expressed. WGCNA suggested VrMYB90 was an important regulatory gene in anthocyanin biosynthesis. Arabidopsis thaliana overexpressing VrMYB90 showed significant accumulation of anthocyanins. PAL, 4CL, DFR, F3'5'H, LDOX, F3'H and UFGT were up-regulated in 35S:VrMYB90 Arabidopsis thaliana. These findings provide valuable information for understanding the synthesis mechanism of anthocyanins in black mung bean seed coats.
Vigna mungo, a highly consumed crop in the pan-Asian countries, is vulnerable to several biotic and abiotic stresses. Understanding the post-transcriptional gene regulatory cascades, especially alternative splicing (AS), may underpin large-scale genetic improvements to develop stress-resilient varieties. Herein, a transcriptome based approach was undertaken to decipher the genome-wide AS landscape and splicing dynamics in order to establish the intricacies of their functional interactions in various tissues and stresses. RNA sequencing followed by high-throughput computational analyses identified 54,526 AS events involving 15,506 AS genes that generated 57,405 transcripts isoforms. Enrichment analysis revealed their involvement in diverse regulatory functions and demonstrated that transcription factors are splicing-intensive, splice variants of which are expressed differentially across tissues and environmental cues. Increased expression of a splicing regulator NHP2L1/SNU13 was found to co-occur with lower intron retention events. The host transcriptome is significantly impacted by differential isoform expression of 1172 and 765 AS genes that resulted in 1227 (46.8% up and 53.2% downregulated) and 831 (47.5% up and 52.5% downregulated) transcript isoforms under viral pathogenesis and Fe
Pod dehiscence is a major source of yield loss in legumes, which is exacerbated by aridity. Disruptive mutations in "Pod indehiscent 1" (PDH1), a pod sclerenchyma-specific lignin biosynthesis gene, has been linked to significant reductions in dehiscence in several legume species. We compared syntenic PDH1 regions across 12 legumes and two outgroups to uncover key historical evolutionary trends at this important locus. Our results clarified the extent to which PDH1 orthologs are present in legumes, showing the typical genomic context surrounding PDH1 has only arisen relatively recently in certain phaseoloid species (Vigna, Phaseolus, Glycine). The notable absence of PDH1 in Cajanus cajan may be a major contributor to its indehiscent phenotype compared with other phaseoloids. In addition, we identified a novel PDH1 ortholog in Vigna angularis and detected remarkable increases in PDH1 transcript abundance during Vigna unguiculata pod development. Investigation of the shared genomic context of PDH1 revealed it lies in a hotspot of transcription factors and signaling gene families that respond to abscisic acid and drought stress, which we hypothesize may be an additional factor influencing expression of PDH1 under specific environmental conditions. Our findings provide key insights into the evolutionary history of PDH1 and lay the foundation for optimizing the pod dehiscence role of PDH1 in major and understudied legume species.
WRKY-, PHD-, and MYB-like proteins are three important types of transcription factors in mungbeans, and play an important role in development and stress resistance. The genes' structures and characteristics were clearly reported and were shown to contain the conservative WRKYGQK heptapeptide sequence, Cys4-His-cys3 zinc binding motif, and HTH (helix) tryptophan cluster W structure, respectively. Knowledge on the response of these genes to salt stress is largely unknown. To address this issue, 83 VrWRKYs, 47 VrPHDs, and 149 VrMYBs were identified by using comparative genomics, transcriptomics, and molecular biology methods in mungbeans. An intraspecific synteny analysis revealed that the three gene families had strong co-linearity and an interspecies synteny analysis showed that mungbean and
The important factors in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders include oxidative stress and neuron-glia system inflammation. Vignae Radiatae Semen (VRS) exhibits antihypertensive, anticancer, anti-melanogenesis, hepatoprotective, and immunomodulatory properties. However, the neuroprotective effects and anti-neuroinflammatory activities of VRS ethanol extract (VRSE) remained unknown. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory activities of VRSE against hydrogen peroxide (H
Mung bean is an important grain-legume crop and its sprout is an economical and nutrient vegetable for the public, but the genetic regulation of anthocyanin production, which is an antioxidant in mung bean, remains elusive. In our study, we characterized a subgroup (SG) 6 R2R3-MYB anthocyanin activator VrMYB90 and a SG 4 R2R3-MYB anthocyanin repressor VrMYB3, which synergistically function in regulating anthocyanin synthesis with VrbHLHA transcription factor. The overexpressed VrMYB90 protein activates the expression of VrMYB3 and VrbHLHA in mung bean hair roots, and also promotes VrDFR and VrANS transcript levels by directly binding to the corresponding promoters at specific motifs (CAACTG and CCGTTG). VrMYB90 interacts with VrbHLHA to enhance its regulatory activities on VrDFR and VrANS. Furthermore, the interaction between VrMYB3 with VrMYB90 and VrbHLHA could result in the restriction of anthocyanin synthesis to prevent excessive anthocyanin accumulation. Our results demonstrate that the VrMYB90 protein, in conjunction with VrMYB3 and VrbHLHA, forms a key regulatory module to fine-tune anthocyanin synthesis in mung bean.
Cowpea is sensitive to drought and heat stress, particularly at the reproductive stages of development. Both stresses limit growth and yield, and their effect is more devastating when occurring concurrently. Dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2A (DREB2A) is an important signaling hub integrating information about two different abiotic stresses, drought and heat. We identified VuDREB2A as a canonical DREB ortholog in cowpea, activating downstream stress-responsive genes by binding to DREs in their promoter. Post-translational modification of a negative regulatory domain (NRD) within the VuDREB2A protein prevents its degradation. Targeted deletion of the NRD produces a stable and constitutively active form VuDREB2A-CA. However, there is very little evidence of its practical utility under field conditions. This study overexpressed the VuDREB2A-CA in a popular cowpea variety and conducted drought- and heat-tolerance experiments across various stress regimes. Transgenic cowpea exhibited significant tolerance with consistently higher yield when exposed to over 30-d drought stress and 3-d exposure to high temperature (28 °C-52 °C) without any pleiotropic alterations. The transgenic lines showed higher photosynthetic efficiency, osmotic adjustment, antioxidant defense, thermotolerance, and significantly higher survival and increased biomass than the wild type. Late embryogenesis abundant 5, heat shock protein 70, dehydrin, mitogen-activated protein kinase 2/4, isoflavonoid reductase, and myoinositol phosphate synthase were upregulated in transgenic lines under drought and heat stress. Through transcriptome analysis of the transgenic lines, we found significant up-regulation of various stress-responsive cowpea genes, having DRE in their promoter. Our results suggest that overexpression of VuDREB2A could improve cowpea production under drought and high temperatures.
To advance the understanding of adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) resistance to infection with the rust-causing fungus Uromyces vignae (Uv), we comprehensively analyzed histological events and the transcriptome of Uv-infected adzuki bean. Compared with the susceptible cv. Baoqinghong (BQH), the resistant cv. QH1 showed inhibition of uredospore germination and substomatal vesicle development, intense autofluorescence of cells around the infection site, and cell wall deposit formation in response to Uv infection. In cv. QH1, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) showed enrichment of chitin catabolic processes and responses to biotic stimuli at 24 h post-inoculation (hpi) and cell wall modification and structural constituent of cytoskeleton at 48 hpi. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis indicated enrichment of WRKY transcription factors (TFs), the calcium binding protein cml, and hydroquinone glucosyltransferase at both 24 and 48 hpi. In total, 1992 and 557 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified at 24 and 48 hpi, respectively. Cell surface pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs), WRKY TFs, defense-associated pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins, and lignin and antimicrobial phenolic compound biosynthesis were significantly induced. Finally, we detected the chitinase (CHI) and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) activity were higher in QH1 and increased much earlier than in BQH. In cv. QH1, cell-surface PRRs rapidly recognize Uv invasion and activate the corresponding TFs to increase the transcription of defense-related genes and corresponding enzymatic activities to prevent fungal development and spread in host tissues.
NAC (NAM/ATAF1/2/CUC2) transcription factors are central switches of growth and stress responses in plants. However, unpredictable interspecies conservation of function and regulatory targets makes the well-studied NAC orthologs inapt for pulse engineering. The knowledge of suitable NAC candidates in hardy pulses like cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is still in infancy, hence warrants immediate biotechnological intervention. Here, we showed that overexpression of two native NAC genes (VuNAC1 and VuNAC2) promoted germinative, vegetative, and reproductive growth and conferred multiple abiotic stress tolerance in a commercial cowpea variety. The transgenic lines displayed increased leaf area, thicker stem, nodule-rich denser root system, early flowering, higher pod production (∼3.2-fold and ∼2.1-fold), and greater seed weight (10.3% and 6.0%). In contrast, transient suppression of VuNAC1/2 caused severe growth retardation and flower inhibition. The overexpressor lines showed remarkable tolerance to major yield-declining terminal stresses, such as drought, salinity, heat, and cold, and recovered growth and seed production by boosting photosynthetic activity, water use efficiency, membrane integrity, Na
Mung bean is a short-duration and essential food crop owing to its cash prominence in Asia. Mung bean seeds are rich in protein, fiber, antioxidants, and phytonutrients. The NAC transcription factors (TFs) family is a large plant-specific family, participating in tissue development regulation and abiotic and biotic stresses. In this study, we perform genome-wide comparisons of VrNAC with their homologs from Arabidopsis. We identified 81 NAC transcription factors (TFs) in mung bean genome and named as per their chromosome location. A phylogenetic analysis revealed that VrNACs are broadly distributed in nine groups. Moreover, we identified 20 conserved motifs across the VrNACs highlighting their roles in different biological process. Based on the gene structure of the putative VrNAC and segmental duplication events might be playing a vital role in the expansion of mung bean genome. A comparative phylogenetic analysis of mung bean NAC together with homologs from Arabidopsis allowed us to classify NAC genes into 13 groups, each containing several orthologs and paralogs. Gene ontology (GO) analysis categorized the VrNACs into biological process, cellular components and molecular functions, explaining the functions in different plant physiology processes. A gene co-expression network analysis identified 173 genes involved in the transcriptional network of putative VrNAC genes. We also investigated how miRNAs potentially target VrNACs and shape their interactions with proteins. VrNAC1.4 (Vradi01g03390.1) was targeted by the Vra-miR165 family, including 9 miRNAs. Vra-miR165 contributes to leaf development and drought tolerance. We also performed qRT-PCR on 22 randomly selected VrNAC genes to assess their expression patterns in the NM-98 genotype, widely known for being tolerant to drought and bacterial leaf spot disease. This genome-wide investigation of VrNACs provides a unique resource for further detailed investigations aimed at predicting orthologs functions and what role the play under abiotic and biotic stress, with the ultimate aim to improve mung bean production under diverse environmental conditions.
To add value to food waste and seek skin aging suppressor, petroleum ether, ethyl acetate, n-butanol and water phenolic extracts were produced from mung bean hulls subjected to ultrasound-assisted ethanolic extraction. The four extracts all contained protocatechuic acid, isovitexin, vitexin, caffeic acid, 4-coumaric acid, ferulic acid, rutin and chlorogenic acid (revealed by UHPLC-MS/MS). The effects of the four extracts and their main phenolic compounds against H
Mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek) is an important legume crop of Asia. Salt concentrations typically causes major yield reductions in mungbean. Although the biochemical and genetic basis of salt tolerance-related gene are well studied in Arabidopsis and soybean, limited information concerning the salt tolerance-related genes in mungbean. To address this issue, we mined salt tolerance related genes using the survival rate trait and 160,1405 SNPs in 112 mungbean accessions. As a result, VrFRO8 significantly associated with salt-stress were identified in the GWAS analysis. The candidate gene VrFRO8 was evidenced by comparative genomics, transcriptome and RT-qPCR analysis. The expression level of VrFRO8 was significantly up-regulated (P-value = 0.001) after salt treatment compared with the control group. Moreover, 188 genes and 158 transcription factors related to salt-stress signal transduction pathway were mined, and 18 genes (18/188) had higher expression level in the salt-tolerant varieties than salt-sensitive varieties. And, the function of VrFRO8 was predicted in mungbean, the protein interaction between VrFRO8 and seven related-genes were found by molecular structure analysis. VrFRO8 might reduce SOD contents by influence Fe
ATAF-like NAC transcription factors are bonafide regulators of stress-signaling. However, their overexpression often exerts growth-retardation by activating ABA-hypersensitivity, chloroplast-degradation, or carbon-starvation. To improve tolerance to multiple stress complying with growth sustainability, we examined two ATAF orthologs, VuNAC1 and VuNAC2, isolated from a drought-hardy cowpea genotype, for a harmonized regulation of stress and growth signaling. The genes were induced by dehydration, NaCl, polyethylene glycol, heat, cold, ABA, and light. Analysis of the promoter-elements and regulatory network corroborated the integration of circadian, hormonal, stress, developmental, and nutrition signals, being VuNAC1/2 the central transcriptional-switch interfacing growth and stress responses. The constitutive gene overexpression in Arabidopsis resulted in an improved embryonic, rosette, and inflorescence growth, under optimum as well as limiting nutrition, in association with increased photosynthetic activity and stomatal-density. The transgenic seedlings manifested tolerance to dehydration, salinity, aluminum, cadmium, and H
The underutilized species Vigna aconitifolia (Moth Bean) is an important legume crop cultivated in semi-arid conditions and is valued for its seeds for their high protein content. It is also a popular green manure cover crop that offers many agronomic benefits including nitrogen fixation and soil nutrients. Despite its economic potential, genomic resources for this crop are scarce and there is limited knowledge on the developmental process of this plant at a molecular level. In the present communication, we have studied the molecular mechanisms that regulate plant development in V. aconitifolia, with a special focus on flower and seed development. We believe that this study will greatly enrich the genomic resources for this plant in form of differentially expressed genes, transcription factors, and genic molecular markers. We have performed the de novo transcriptome assembly using six types of tissues from various developmental stages of Vigna aconitifolia (var. RMO-435), namely, leaves, roots, flowers, pods, and seed tissue in the early and late stages of development, using the Illumina NextSeq platform. We assembled the transcriptome to get 150938 unigenes with an average length of 937.78 bp. About 79.9% of these unigenes were annotated in public databases and 12839 of those unigenes showed a significant match in the KEGG database. Most of the unigenes displayed significant differential expression in the late stages of seed development as compared with leaves. We annotated 74082 unigenes as transcription factors and identified 12096 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) in the genic regions of V.aconitifolia. Digital expression analysis revealed specific gene activities in different tissues which were validated using Real-time PCR analysis. The Vigna aconitifolia transcriptomic resources generated in this study provide foundational resources for gene discovery with respect to various developmental stages. This study provides the first comprehensive analysis revealing the genes involved in molecular as well as metabolic pathways that regulate seed development and may be responsible for the unique nutritive values of moth bean seeds. Hence, this study would serve as a foundation for characterization of candidate genes which would not only provide novel insights into understanding seed development but also provide resources for improved moth bean and related species genetic enhancement.
Global climate changes increase the frequency and intensity of heavy precipitation events, which result in flooding or soil waterlogging. One way to overcome these low-oxygen stresses is via modifying the plant root system to improve internal aeration. Here, we used a comparative RNA-seq based transcriptomic approach to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of waterlogging-triggered root plasticity in mungbean (
Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is one of the most tolerant legume crops to drought and salt stresses. WRKY transcription factor (TF) family members stand out among plant transcriptional regulators related to abiotic stress tolerance. However, little information is currently available on the expression of the cowpea WRKY gene family (VuWRKY) in response to water deficit. Thus, we analyzed genomic and transcriptomic data from cowpea to identify VuWRKY members and characterize their structure and transcriptional response under root dehydration stress. Ninety-two complete VuWRKY genes were found in the cowpea genome based on their domain characteristics. They were clustered into three groups: I (15 members), II (58), and III (16), while three genes were unclassified. Domain analysis of the encoded proteins identified four major variants of the conserved heptapeptide motif WRKYGQK. In silico analysis of VuWRKY gene promoters identified eight candidate binding motifs of cis-regulatory elements, regulated mainly by six TF families associated with abiotic stress responses. Ninety-seven VuWRKY modulated splicing variants associated with 55 VuWRKY genes were identified via RNA-Seq analysis available at the Cowpea Genomics Consortium (CpGC) database. qPCR analyses showed that 22 genes are induced under root dehydration, with VuWRKY18, 21, and 75 exhibiting the most significant induction levels. Given their central role in activating signal transduction cascades in abiotic stress response, the data provide a foundation for the targeted modification of specific VuWRKY family members to improve drought tolerance in this important climate-resilient legume in the developing world and beyond.
Early undernutrition has been found to be closely associated with subsequent neurodevelopment. However, studies examining crude growth in terms of body weight/tail length cannot clarify how diets might mediate associations between the gut microbiota and cognitive dysfunction. In the present study, Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were fed a 7% protein diet and mung bean protein diet (MBPD) for 6 weeks to assess central nervous system functions.
High salinity is a devastating abiotic stresses for crops. To understand the molecular basis of salinity stress in yardlong bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis), and to develop robust markers for improving this trait in germplasm, whole transcriptome RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was conducted to compare the salt-tolerant variety Suzi 41 and salt-sensitive variety Sujiang 1419 under normal and salt stress conditions. Compared with controls, 417 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified under exposure to high salinity, including 42 up- and 11 down-regulated DEGs in salt-tolerant Suzi 41 and 186 up- and 197 down-regulated genes in salt-sensitive Sujiang 1419, validated by qRT-PCR. DEGs were enriched in "Glycolysis/Gluconeogenesis" (ko00010), "Cutin, suberine and wax biosynthesis" (ko00073), and "phenylpropanoid biosynthesis" (ko00940) in Sujiang 1419, although "cysteine/methionine metabolism" (ko00270) was the only pathway significantly enriched in salt-tolerant Suzi 41. Notably, AP2/ERF, LR48, WRKY, and bHLH family transcription factors (TFs) were up-regulated under high salt conditions. Genetic diversity analysis of 84 yardlong bean accessions using 26 InDel markers developed here could distinguish salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive varieties. These findings show a limited set of DEGs, primarily TFs, respond to salinity stress in V. unguiculata, and that these InDels associated with salt-inducible loci are reliable for diversity analysis.
Yeast is a dominant host for recombinant production of heterologous proteins, high-value biochemical compounds, and microbial fermentation. During bioprocess operations, pH fluctuations, organic solvents, drying, starvation, osmotic pressure, and often a combination of these stresses cause growth inhibition or death, markedly limiting its industrial use. Thus, stress-tolerant yeast strains with balanced energy-bioenergetics are highly desirous for sustainable improvement of quality biotechnological production. We isolated two NAC transcription factors (TFs), VuNAC1 and VuNAC2, from a wild cowpea genotype, improving both stress tolerance and growth when expressed in yeast. The GFP-fused proteins were localized to the nucleus. Y2H and reporter assay demonstrated the dimerization and transactivation abilities of the VuNAC proteins having structural folds similar to rice SNAC1. The gel-shift assay indicated that the TFs recognize an "ATGCGTG" motif for DNA-binding shared by several native TFs in yeast. The heterologous expression of VuNAC1/2 in yeast improved growth, biomass, lifespan, fermentation efficiency, and altered cellular composition of biomolecules. The transgenic strains conferred tolerance to multiple stresses such as high salinity, osmotic stress, freezing, and aluminum toxicity. Analysis of the metabolome revealed reprogramming of major pathways synthesizing nucleotides, vitamin B complex, amino acids, antioxidants, flavonoids, and other energy currencies and cofactors. Consequently, the transcriptional tuning of stress signaling and biomolecule metabolism improved the survival of the transgenic strains during starvation and stress recovery. VuNAC1/2-based synthetic gene expression control may contribute to designing robust industrial yeast strains with value-added productivity.
The Teosinte branched 1/Cycloidea/Proliferating cell factor (TCP) transcription factors are potent growth and developmental regulators in plants, also responsive to various hormonal and environmental stimuli. In this study, we primarily focused on the functional role of TCP9, a nuclear-localised Class-I TCP transcription factor in a drought and heat-tolerant legume crop, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Under drought stress, a higher protein expression level of TCP9 was observed in the leaves of the drought-tolerant cowpea cultivar Pusa Komal as compared to the drought-sensitive cultivar TVu-7778. Further, overexpression of VuTCP9 resulted in reduced cell and stomata size, aperture length and width while cell and overall stomatal density in the 35S::VuTCP9 transgenic cowpea lines increased. Phenotypic alterations, such as reduced leaf size and vigour, altered seed coats displaying extension pattern similar to the 'Watson pattern' and delayed senescence were prominent in the transgenic lines. Under normal conditions, the gas exchange and fluorescence measurements indicated reduction in transpiration rate (E), stomatal conductance (g
The present work represents a pioneering effort, being the first to analyze genomic and transcriptomic data from
Increasing attention has been focused on plant-derived peptides because of their potential bioactivities. In this study, bioactive peptides were released from extruded adzuki bean protein by simulated gastrointestinal digestion. A peptide (KQS-1) sequenced as KQSESHFVDAQPEQQQR was separated and identified using ultrafiltration, pre-high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and ultraperformance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS). KQS-1 was shown to exert significant anti-inflammatory effects in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages by reducing the production of IL-1, IL-6, TNF-α, and MCP-1 to 38.31, 6.07, 43.96, and 41.74%, respectively. The involved signaling pathways were identified by transcriptome analysis. Overall, 5236 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. Gene ontology (GO) functions demonstrated that DEGs were significantly related to the NF-κB pathway. In conclusion, KQS-1 prevented the activation and expression of NF-κB/caspase-1 by upstream and downstream factors. These findings highlight the bioactivity of adzuki bean peptides.
Yellow Mosaic Disease (YMD) in mungbean [Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek] is one of the most damaging diseases in Asia. In the northern part of India, the YMD is caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV), while in southern India this is caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic Virus (MYMV). The molecular mechanism of YMD resistance in mungbean remains largely unknown. In this study, RNA-seq analysis was conducted between a resistant (PMR-1) and a susceptible (Pusa Vishal) mungbean genotype under infected and control conditions to understand the regulatory network operating between mungbean-YMV. Overall, 76.8 million raw reads could be generated in different treatment combinations, while mapping rate per library to the reference genome varied from 86.78% to 93.35%. The resistance to MYMIV showed a very complicated gene network, which begins with the production of general PAMPs (pathogen-associated molecular patterns), then activation of various signaling cascades like kinases, jasmonic acid (JA) and brassinosteroid (BR), and finally the expression of specific genes (like PR-proteins, virus resistance and R-gene proteins) leading to resistance response. The function of WRKY, NAC and MYB transcription factors in imparting the resistance against MYMIV could be established. The string analysis also revealed the role of proteins involved in kinase, viral movement and phytoene synthase activity in imparting YMD resistance. A set of novel stress-related EST-SSRs are also identified from the RNA-Seq data which may be used to find the linked genes/QTLs with the YMD resistance. Also, 11 defence-related transcripts could be validated through quantitative real-time PCR analysis. The identified gene networks have led to an insight about the defence mechanism operating against MYMIV infection in mungbean which will be of immense use to manage the YMD resistance in mungbean.
Black gram [Vigna mungo (L)] seeds are a rich source of digestible protein and dietary fibre, both for human and animal consumption. However, the quality and quantity of the Vigna seeds are severely affected by bruchid beetles during storage. Therefore, analyses of the expression of the bruchid induced transcript dynamics in black gram pods would be helpful to understand the underlying defense mechanism against bruchid oviposition. We used the RNAseq approach to survey the changes in transcript profile in the developing seeds of a moderately resistant cultivar IC-8219 against bruchid oviposition using a susceptible cultivar T-9 as a control. A total of 96,084,600 and 99,532,488 clean reads were generated from eight (4 each) samples of IC-8219 and T-9 cultivar, respectively. Based on the BLASTX search against the NR database, 32,584 CDSs were generated of which 31,817 CDSs were significantly similar to Vigna radiata, a close relative of Vigna mungo. The IC-8219 cultivar had 630 significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of which 304 and 326 genes up and down-regulated, respectively. However, in the T-9 cultivar, only 168 DEGs were identified of which 142 and 26 genes up and down-regulated, respectively. The expression analyses of 10 DEGs by qPCR confirmed the accuracy of the RNA-Seq data. Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway analyses helped us to better understand the role of these DEGs in oviposition mediated defense response of black gram. In both the cultivars, the most significant transcriptomic changes in response to the oviposition were related to the induction of defense response genes, transcription factors, secondary metabolites, enzyme inhibitors, and signal transduction pathways. It appears that the bruchid ovipositioning mediated defense response in black gram is induced by SA signaling pathways and defense genes such as defensin, genes for secondary metabolites, and enzyme inhibitors could be potential candidates for resistance to bruchids. We generated a transcript profile of immature black gram pods upon bruchid ovipositioning by de novo assembly and studied the underlying defense mechanism of a moderately resistant cultivar.
This work presents a robust analysis of the inositols (INSs) and raffinose family oligosaccharides (RFOs) pathways, using genomic and transcriptomic tools in cowpea under root dehydration. Nineteen (~70%) of the 26 scrutinized enzymes presented transcriptional up-regulation in at least one treatment time. The transcriptional orchestration allowed categorization of the analyzed enzymes as time-independent (those showing the same regulation throughout the assay) and time-dependent (those showing different transcriptional regulation over time). It is suggested that up-regulated time-independent enzymes (INSs: myo-inositol oxygenase, inositol-tetrakisphosphate 1-kinase 3, phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase 4-like, 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate 5-kinase, phosphoinositide phospholipase C, and non-specific phospholipase C; RFOs: α-galactosidase, invertase, and raffinose synthase) actively participate in the reorganization of cowpea molecular physiology under the applied stress. In turn, time-dependent enzymes, especially those up-regulated in some of the treatment times (INSs: inositol-pentakisphosphate 2-kinase, phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase, phosphatidylinositol synthase, multiple inositol polyphosphate phosphatase 1, methylmalonate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase, triosephosphate isomerase, myo-inositol-3-phosphate synthase, phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate 3-phosphatase and protein-tyrosine-phosphatase, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; RFOs: galactinol synthase) seem to participate in fine-tuning of the molecular physiology, helping the cowpea plants to acclimatize under dehydration stress. Not all loci encoding the studied enzymes were expressed during the assay; most of the expressed ones exhibited a variable transcriptional profile in the different treatment times. Genes of the INSs and RFOs pathways showed high orthology with analyzed Phaseoleae members, suggesting a relevant role within this legume group. Regarding the promoter regions of INSs and RFOs genes, some bona fide cis-regulatory elements were identified in association with seven transcription factor families (AP2-EFR, Dof-type, MADS-box, bZIP, CPP, ZF-HD, and GATA-type). Members of INSs and RFOs pathways potentially participate in other processes regulated by these proteins in cowpea.
This paper reports fine mapping of qCLS for resistance to Cercospora leaf spot disease in mungbean and identified LOC106765332encoding TATA-binding-protein-associated factor 5 (TAF5) as the candidate gene for the resistance Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by the fungus Cercospora canescens is an important disease of mungbean. A QTL mapping using mungbean F
The full-length single-molecular sequencing and short reads Illumina sequencing were combined to generate the transcripts of adzuki bean with high-quality. A total of 17,636 loci and 60,454 transcripts were detected in this study. To characterize the drought-responsive genes during seed germination in adzuki bean, two varieties, i.e., tolerant and sensitive to drought stress, were selected to conduct analysis of alternative splicing dynamics (AS) and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) by combining the newly assembled draft genome and public adzuki bean reference genome. AS analysis indicated that both the two varieties underwent a little more AS events under control conditions than under drought stress. Among the AS events, IR (intron retention) predominately accounted for 34.3%, whereas AD (alternative donor site) was the least frequent with 15.8%. Meanwhile, 562 long non-coding RNAs, 409 fusion genes and 1208 transcription factors were identified. Moreover, a total of 5,337 DEGs were identified in comparison of the two varieties with drought or control treatments. Notably, 82 DEGs were discovered in the two varieties under drought stress, which might be the candidate in regulation of seed germination to answer for different drought tolerance. The DEGs encoded proteins involved in primary or second metabolism, plant hormone signal transduction, transcript or translation processes, ubiquitin proteasome system, transcription factor, transporters, and so on. The results facilitate to increase the knowledge about the mechanism of drought tolerance during crop seed germination, and provide reference for the breeding of drought-tolerant adzuki bean.
The Ty1/copia-like retrotransposon ONSEN is conserved among Brassica species, as well as in beans, including adzuki bean (Vigna angularis (Willd.) Ohwi & Ohashi), which is one of the economically important crops in Japan. ONSEN has acquired a heat-responsive element that is recognized by plant heat stress defense factors, resulting in its transcription and the production of full-length extrachromosomal DNA under conditions with elevated temperatures. DNA methylation plays an important role in regulating the activation of this transposon in plants. Therefore, chemical inhibition of DNA methyltransferases has been utilized to study the effect of DNA methylation on transposon activation. To understand the effect of DNA methylation on ONSEN activation, Arabidopsis thaliana and adzuki bean seedlings were treated with zebularine, which is known to be an effective chemical demethylation agent. The results showed that ONSEN transcription levels were upregulated in zebularine-treated plants. Extrachromosomal DNA of ONSEN also accumulated in the treated plants.
Ethylene-response factor (ERF) proteins are members of a transcription factor family involved in plant growth and environmental stress responses, but the biological functions of ERF members in adzuki bean (Vigna angularis var. angularis) remain unknown. In addition, it is unclear whether these proteins have a role in regulating responses to abiotic stressors. Here, we identified 47 ERF genes by analyzing the adzuki bean genome. Whole-transcriptome analyses of plants under saline-alkaline stress suggested that the expression of 13 ERF genes was induced in response to saline-alkaline stress. Analysis of the cis-acting elements showed that the promoters of these saline-alkaline stress-inducible ERF genes contained LTRs, DREs, MYBs, ABREs, MYCs, CGTCA-, and TGACG-motifs, which are involved in abiotic stress responses. The expression of VaERF3 was induced by NaHCO
Meloidogyne incognita is a polyphagous plant-parasitic nematode that causes considerable yield loss in agricultural and horticultural crops. The management options available for M. incognita are extremely limited. Here we identified and characterised a M. incognita homolog of Caenorhabditis elegans sterol-binding protein (Mi-SBP-1), a transcriptional regulator of several lipogenesis pathway genes, and used RNA interference-mediated gene silencing to establish its utility as a target for the management of M. incognita. Mi-sbp-1 is predicted to be a helix-loop-helix domain containing DNA binding transcription factor, and is present in the M. incognita genome in three copies. The RNA-Seq analysis of Mi-sbp-1 silenced second stage juveniles confirmed the key role of this gene in lipogenesis regulation in M. incognita. In vitro and host-induced gene silencing of Mi-sbp-1 in M. incognita second stage juveniles resulted in loss of nematodes' ability to utilise the stored fat reserves, slower nematode development, and reduced parasitism on adzuki bean and tobacco plants. The multiplication factor for the Mi-sbp-1 silenced nematodes on adzuki bean plants was reduced by 51% compared with the control nematodes in which Mi-sbp-1 was not silenced. Transgenic expression of the double-stranded RNA construct of the Mi-sbp-1 gene in tobacco plants caused 40-45% reduction in M. incognita multiplication, 30-43.8% reduction in the number of egg masses, and 33-54% reduction in the number of eggs per egg mass compared with the wild type control plants. Our results confirm that Mi-sbp-1 is a key regulator of lipogenesis in M. incognita and suggest that it can be used as an effective target for its management. The findings of this study can be extended to develop methods to manage other economically important parasitic nematodes.
The interaction among plants and their pollinators has been a major factor which enriched floral traits known as pollination syndromes and promoted the diversification of flowering plants. One of the bee-pollination syndromes in Faboideae with keel blossoms is the formation of a landing platform by wing and keel petals. However, the molecular mechanisms of elaborating a keel blossom remain unclear. By performing large scale mutagenesis, we isolated and characterized a mutant in Vigna radiata, love on wings (low), which shows developmental defects in petal asymmetry and vasculature, leading to a failure in landing platform formation. We cloned the locus through map-based cloning together with RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis. We found that LOW encoded a nucleus-localized Dof-like protein and was expressed in the flower provascular and vascular tissues. A single copy of LOW was detected in legumes, in contrast with other taxa where there seems to be at least 2 copies. Thirty one Dof proteins have been identified from the V. radiata's genome, which can be further divided into four Major Cluster of Orthologous Groups (MCOGs). We also showed that ectopic expression of LOW in Arabidopsis driven by its native promoter caused changes in petal vasculature pattern. To summarize, our study isolated a legume Dof-like factor LOW from V. radiata, which affects vasculature development in this species and this change can, in turn, impact petal development and overall morphology of keel blossom.
Transcriptional regulation is important for plants to respond to toxic effects of aluminium (Al). However, our current knowledge to these events is confined to a few transcription factors. Here, we functionally characterized a rice bean (Vigna umbellata) NAC-type transcription factor, VuNAR1, in terms of Al stress response. We demonstrated that rice bean VuNAR1 is a nuclear-localized transcriptional activator, whose expression was specifically upregulated by Al in roots but not in shoot. VuNAR1 overexpressing Arabidopsis plants exhibit improved Al resistance via Al exclusion. However, VuNAR1-mediated Al exclusion is independent of the function of known Al-resistant genes. Comparative transcriptomic analysis revealed that VuNAR1 specifically regulates the expression of genes associated with protein phosphorylation and cell wall modification in Arabidopsis. Transient expression assay demonstrated the direct transcriptional activation of cell wall-associated receptor kinase 1 (WAK1) by VuNAR1. Moreover, yeast one-hybrid assays and MEME motif searches identified a new VuNAR1-specific binding motif in the promoter of WAK1. Compared with wild-type Arabidopsis plants, VuNAR1 overexpressing plants have higher WAK1 expression and less pectin content. Taken together, our results suggest that VuNAR1 regulates Al resistance by regulating cell wall pectin metabolism via directly binding to the promoter of WAK1 and induce its expression.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the immunomodulatory activity of mung bean protein hydrolysate (MBPH) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 cells and discuss the possible immune regulatory mechanism. MBPH was prepared by alcalase, trypsin, neutrase, and flavourzyme. The 3-h alcalase-hydrolyzed hydrolysate with a molecular weight less than 1,450 Da was selected for the immunological tests. Results showed that MBPH possessed strong suppressing activity to proinflammatory mediators in a dose-dependent manner. Compared to the LPS alone group, MBPH (200 µg/mL) significantly reduced nitric oxide (NO), inducible nitric oxide synthase, interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-1β secretion levels by 52.6%, 53.2%, 48.4%, and 49.7%, respectively, in LPS-induced macrophages. It also enhanced IL-10 secretion from 789 to 3,678 pg/mL. MBPH blocked nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) translocation in LPS-induced macrophages through the prevention of IκBα phosphorylation, and this process further prevented p65 translocation into the nucleus. A possible mechanism of MBPH is that it regulated the expression of inflammatory factors via the NF-κB pathway, thus inhibiting inflammatory reactions. The results suggested that MBPH is of application potential in the development of immunomodulatory functional food to ameliorate immunosuppression.
Isoflavones, such as Genistein (Ge) and Daidzein (Dz) are widely studied Phytoestrogens with potent anti-osteoporotic and good antioxidant activity. Cowpea is one such legume having high isoflavone content and hence we aimed at studying the beneficial effects of the isoflavones isolated from cowpea as it is widely accepted staple food in India. Previously, we reported the effect of Cowpea isoflavones (CP) and Vitamin D (VD) owing to its ability of improving the osteoporotic condition in a diet induced osteoporotic rat model. In the present study, we tried to explore the underlying mechanism of CP and VD along with positive controls Dz and Ge in influencing the functions of human osteoblasts at cellular level. Initially, MG-63 cells were assessed for the expression of genes involved in BMP-2 signaling pathway, like Bone morphogenic protein (BMP-2), transcription factor Osterix (OSX), total and phosphorylated Smad 1/5/8 levels and osteoblast specific genes levels namely Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), Osteopontin (OPN), and Collagen by immunoblot, flow cytometry, and quantitative RT-PCR studies. All the levels that were upregulated with the initial exposure of the compounds got inhibited after Noggin exposure a specific BMP-2 antagonist both at protein level and m-RNA level, except OSX where the expression was totally hindered in CP and Ge treated groups alone. Hence, CP and VD activate BMP-2/Smad signaling pathway and promote further proliferation and differentiation of osteoblasts. Therefore, results prove that isoflavones isolated from cowpea could be used in treating bone-related disorders.
Asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis) is a warm season legume which is widely distributed over subtropical regions and semiarid areas. It is mainly grown as a significant protein source in developing countries. Salinity, as one of the main abiotic stress factors, constrains the normal growth and yield of asparagus bean. This study used two cultivars (a salt-sensitive genotype and a salt-tolerant genotype) under salt stress vs. control to identify salt-stress-induced genes in asparagus bean using RNA sequencing. A total of 692,086,838 high-quality clean reads, assigned to 121,138 unigenes, were obtained from control and salt-treated libraries. Then, 216 root-derived DEGs (differentially expressed genes) and 127 leaf-derived DEGs were identified under salt stress between the two cultivars. Of these DEGs, thirteen were assigned to six transcription factors (TFs), including AP2/EREBP, CCHC(Zn), C2H2, WRKY, WD40-like and LIM. GO analysis indicated four DEGs might take effects on the "oxidation reduction", "transport" and "signal transduction" process. Moreover, expression of nine randomly-chosen DEGs was verified by quantitative real-time-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis. Predicted function of the nine tested DEGs was mainly involved in the KEGG pathway of cation transport, response to osmotic stress, and phosphorelay signal transduction system. A salt-stress-related pathway of "SNARE interactions in vesicular transport" was concerned. As byproducts, 15, 321 microsatellite markers were found in all the unigenes, and 17 SNP linked to six salt-stress induced DEGs were revealed. These candidate genes provide novel insights for understanding the salt tolerance mechanism of asparagus bean in the future.
We examined the changes in the heart of rats at the early stages of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes, and whether azuki bean extract (ABE) could influence these changes. The experimental diabetic rats received 0 or 40 mg/kg of ABE orally for 4 weeks, whereas the control group rats received distilled water. 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) and expression of proteins associated with peroxisomal FA β-oxidation as well as oxidative stress markers were examined. The levels of peroxisomal ACOX1 and catalase of the diabetic groups were significantly higher than those in the control group. The levels of p62, phosphorylated-p62 (p-p62) and HO-1 in the STZ group were significantly higher than those in the control group, and the levels of p-p62, HO-1, and 8-OHdG were significantly lower by ABE administration. The STZ-induced early diabetes increases the levels of proteins related to peroxisomal FA β-oxidation and oxidative stress markers in hearts. ABE protects diabetic hearts from oxidative damage.
Interferon-induced expression of programmed cell death ligands (PD-L1/PD-L2) may sustain tumour immune-evasion. Patients featuring MET amplification, a genetic lesion driving transformation, may benefit from anti-MET treatment. We explored if MET-targeted therapy interferes with Interferon-γ modulation of PD-L1/PD-L2 in MET-amplified tumours. PD-L1/PD-L2 expression and signalling pathways downstream of MET or Interferon-γ were analysed in MET-amplified tumour cell lines and in patient-derived tumour organoids, in basal condition, upon Interferon-γ stimulation, and after anti-MET therapy. PD-L1 and PD-L2 were upregulated in MET-amplified tumour cells upon Interferon-γ treatment. This induction was impaired by JNJ-605, a selective inhibitor of MET kinase activity, and MvDN30, an antibody inducing MET proteolytic cleavage. We found that activation of JAKs/ STAT1, signal transducers downstream of the Interferon-γ receptor, was neutralised by MET inhibitors. Moreover, JAK2 and MET associated in the same signalling complex depending on MET phosphorylation. Results were confirmed in MET-amplified organoids derived from human colorectal tumours, where JNJ-605 treatment revoked Interferon-γ induced PD-L1 expression. These data show that in MET-amplified cancers, treatment with MET inhibitors counteracts the induction of PD-1 ligands by Interferon-γ. Thus, therapeutic use of anti-MET drugs may provide additional clinical benefit over and above the intended inhibition of the target oncogene.
Heat shock transcription factors (Hsfs) are essential elements in plant signal transduction pathways that mediate gene expression in response to various abiotic stresses. Mungbean (
The expanding world population is expected to double the worldwide demand for food by 2050. Eighty-eight percent of countries currently face a serious burden of malnutrition, especially in Africa and south and southeast Asia. About 95% of the food energy needs of humans are fulfilled by just 30 species, of which wheat, maize, and rice provide the majority of calories. Therefore, to diversify and stabilize the global food supply, enhance agricultural productivity, and tackle malnutrition, greater use of neglected or underutilized local plants (so-called orphan crops, but also including a few plants of special significance to agriculture, agroforestry, and nutrition) could be a partial solution. Here, we present draft genome information for five agriculturally, biologically, medicinally, and economically important underutilized plants native to Africa: Vigna subterranea, Lablab purpureus, Faidherbia albida, Sclerocarya birrea, and Moringa oleifera. Assembled genomes range in size from 217 to 654 Mb. In V. subterranea, L. purpureus, F. albida, S. birrea, and M. oleifera, we have predicted 31,707, 20,946, 28,979, 18,937, and 18,451 protein-coding genes, respectively. By further analyzing the expansion and contraction of selected gene families, we have characterized root nodule symbiosis genes, transcription factors, and starch biosynthesis-related genes in these genomes. These genome data will be useful to identify and characterize agronomically important genes and understand their modes of action, enabling genomics-based, evolutionary studies, and breeding strategies to design faster, more focused, and predictable crop improvement programs.
The seminal participation of WRKY transcription factors in plant development, metabolism and in the governance of defense mechanism implicated their gaining importance for genomic and functional studies. The recent release of draft genome sequences of two legume crops, Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) and Mung bean (Vigna radiata) has paved the way for characterization of WRKY gene family in these crops. We found 84 WRKY genes in Adzuki bean (VaWRKY) and 85 WRKY genes in Mung bean (VrWRKY). Based on the phylogenetic analysis, VaWRKY genes were classified into three groups with 15 members in Group I, 56 members in Group II, and 13 members in Group III, which was comparable to VrWRKY distribution in Mung bean, 16, 56 and 13 members in Group I, II and III, respectively. The few tandem and segmental duplication events suggested that recent duplication plays no prominent role in the expansion VaWRKY and VrWRKY genes. The illustration of gene-structure and their encoded protein-domains further revealed the nature of WRKY proteins. Moreover, the identification of abiotic or biotic stress-responsive cis-regulatory elements in the promoter regions of some WRKY genes provides fundamental insights for their further implementation in stress-tolerance and genetic improvement of agronomic traits.
Environmental stresses can reduce crop yield and quality considerably. Plants protect cell metabolism in response to abiotic stresses at all stages of their life cycle, including seed production. As the production of vigorous seeds is important to both yield and crop growth, we analyzed causes of yield loss and reduced grain quality in staple crops exposed to environmental stresses such as drought and temperature extremes, with a focus on the remobilization of nutrients and water status during seed filling. Because water is one of the factors that limit seed development, seeds must have mechanisms that allow them to withstand water loss during seed maturation. In addition, analysis of the effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on transcription regulation and signaling should help to elucidate the regulation of seed dormancy and germination. In this review, we focus on nutrient remobilization, water mobility, plant hormones (gibberellins, abscisic acid, and ethylene), and ROS in sink and source organs and describe how rice, wheat, barley, soybean, and cowpea plants control seed maturation and germination under environmental stresses.
Cowpea is an important horticultural crop in tropical and subtropical areas of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, as well as parts of southern Europe and Central and South America. Chilling injury is a common physiological hazard of cowpea in cold chain logistics which reduce the cowpea pods nutritional quality and product value. However, the molecular mechanism involved in chilling injury remains unclear in cowpea pods. RNA-Seq and sRNA-Seq technologies were employed to decipher the miRNAs and mRNAs expression profiles and their regulatory networks in cowpea pods involved in chilling stress. Differentially expressed miRNAs and mRNA profiles were obtained based on cluster analysis, miRNAs and target genes were found to show coherent relationships in the regulatory networks of chilling injury. Furthermore, we found that numerous miRNAs and nat-siRNAs' targets were predicted to be key enzymes involved in the redox reactions such as POD, CAT, AO and LOX, energy metabolism such as ATPase, FAD and NAD related enzymes and different transcription factors such as WRKY, bHLH, MYB, ERF and NAC which play important roles in chilling injury.
Mung bean and adzuki bean are warm-season legumes widely cultivated in China. However, bean production in major producing regions is limited by biotic and abiotic stress, such as drought and salt stress. Basic leucine zipper (bZIP) genes play key roles in responses to various biotic and abiotic stresses. However, only several bZIP genes involved in drought and salt stress in legumes, especially Vigna radiata and Vigna angularis, have been identified. In this study, we identified 54 and 50 bZIP proteins from whole-genome sequences of V. radiata and V. angularis, respectively. First, we comprehensively surveyed the characteristics of all bZIP genes, including their gene structure, chromosome distribution and motif composition. Phylogenetic trees showed that VrbZIP and VabZIP proteins were divided into ten clades comprising nine known and one unknown subgroup. The results of the nucleotide substitution rate of the orthologous gene pairs showed that bZIP proteins have undergone strong purifying selection: V. radiata and V. angularis diverged 1.25 million years ago (mya) to 9.20 mya (average of 4.95 mya). We also found that many cis-acting regulatory elements (CAREs) involved in abiotic stress and plant hormone responses were detected in the putative promoter regions of the bZIP genes. Finally, using the quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) method, we performed expression profiling of the bZIP genes in response to drought, salt and abscisic acid (ABA). We identified several bZIP genes that may be involved in drought and salt responses. Generally, our results provided useful and rich resources of VrbZIP and VabZIP genes for the functional characterization and understanding of bZIP transcription factors (TFs) in warm-season legumes. In addition, our results revealed important and interesting data - a subset of VrbZIP and VabZIP gene expression profiles in response to drought, salt and ABA stress. These results provide gene expression evidence for the selection of candidate genes under drought and salt stress for future study.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is the most important food and forage legume in the semi-arid tropics of sub-Saharan Africa where approximately 80% of worldwide production takes place primarily on low-input, subsistence farm sites. Among the major goals of cowpea breeding and improvement programs are the rapid manipulation of agronomic traits for seed size and quality and improved resistance to abiotic and biotic stresses to enhance productivity. Knowing the suite of transcription factors (TFs) and transcriptionally active proteins (TAPs) that control various critical plant cellular processes would contribute tremendously to these improvement aims. We used a computational approach that employed three different predictive pipelines to data mine the cowpea genome and identified over 4400 genes representing 136 different TF and TAP families. We compare the information content of cowpea to two evolutionarily close species common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), and soybean (Glycine max) to gauge the relative informational content. Our data indicate that correcting for genome size cowpea has fewer TF and TAP genes than common bean (4408 / 5291) and soybean (4408/ 11,065). Members of the GROWTH-REGULATING FACTOR (GRF) and Auxin/indole-3-acetic acid (Aux/IAA) gene families appear to be over-represented in the genome relative to common bean and soybean, whereas members of the MADS (Minichromosome maintenance deficient 1 (MCM1), AGAMOUS, DEFICIENS, and serum response factor (SRF)) and C2C2-YABBY appear to be under-represented. Analysis of the AP2-EREBP APETALA2-Ethylene Responsive Element Binding Protein (AP2-EREBP), NAC (NAM (no apical meristem), ATAF1, 2 (Arabidopsis transcription activation factor), CUC (cup-shaped cotyledon)), and WRKY families, known to be important in defense signaling, revealed changes and phylogenetic rearrangements relative to common bean and soybean that suggest these groups may have evolved different functions. The availability of detailed information on the coding capacity of the cowpea genome and in particular the various TF and TAP gene families will facilitate future comparative analysis and development of strategies for controlling growth, differentiation, and abiotic and biotic stress resistances of cowpea.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated phosphorylation cascade is a vital component of plant cellular signalling. Despite this, MAPK signalling cascade is less characterized in crop legumes. To fill this void, we present here a comprehensive phylogeny of MAPK kinases (MKKs) and MAPKs identified from 16 legume species belonging to genistoid (Lupinus angustifolius), dalbergioid (Arachis spp.), phaseoloid (Glycine max, Cajanus cajan, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Vigna spp.), and galegoid (Cicer arietinum, Lotus japonicus, Medicago truncatula, Pisum sativum, Trifolium spp., and Vicia faba) clades. Using the genes of the diploid crop chickpea (C. arietinum), an exhaustive interaction analysis was performed between MKKs and MAPKs by split-ubiquitin based yeast two-hybrid (Y2H). Twenty seven interactions of varying strengths were identified between chickpea MKKs and MAPKs. These interactions were verified in planta by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). As a first report in plants, four intra-molecular interactions of weak strength were identified within chickpea MKKs. Additionally; two TEOSINTE-BRANCHED1/CYCLOIDEA/PCF (TCP) transcription factors of class I were identified as novel down-stream interacting partners of seven MAPKs. We propose that this highly reliable MAPK interaction network, presented here for chickpea, can be utilized as a reference for legumes and thus will help in deciphering their role in legume-specific events.
Pigeonpea (Cajanus cajan L.), a diploid legume crop, is a member of the tribe Phaseoleae. This tribe is descended from the millettioid (tropical) clade of the subfamily Papilionoideae, which includes many important legume crop species such as soybean (Glycine max), mung bean (Vigna radiata), cowpea (Vigna ungiculata), and common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). It plays major role in food and nutritional security, being rich source of proteins, minerals and vitamins. We have developed a comprehensive Pigeonpea Transcription Factors Database (PpTFDB) that encompasses information about 1829 putative transcription factors (TFs) and their 55 TF families. PpTFDB provides a comprehensive information about each of the identified TFs that includes chromosomal location, protein physicochemical properties, sequence data, protein functional annotation, simple sequence repeats (SSRs) with primers derived from their motifs, orthology with related legume crops, and gene ontology (GO) assignment to respective TFs. (PpTFDB: http://14.139.229.199/PpTFDB/Home.aspx) is a freely available and user friendly web resource that facilitates users to retrieve the information of individual members of a TF family through a set of query interfaces including TF ID or protein functional annotation. In addition, users can also get the information by browsing interfaces, which include browsing by TF Categories and by, GO Categories. This PpTFDB will serve as a promising central resource for researchers as well as breeders who are working towards crop improvement of legume crops.
The MYB gene family represents one of the largest groups of transcription factors in plants. Recent evidences have also demonstrated key role of MYB transcription factors in regulating the expression of major genes involved in the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoid compounds which confer biotic and abiotic stress tolerance in plant species. However, no comprehensive genome-wide analysis of the phenylpropanoid pathway-associated MYB transcription factors has been reported thus far. In this study, 11 Arabidopsis MYB proteins, such as MYB3, MYB4, MYB7, MYB11, MYB12, MYB32, MYB75, MYB90, MYB111, MYB113, and MYB114 were initially identified considering their reported regulatory function in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway. Subsequent genome-wide analysis have identified the corresponding homologues from Glycine max, Vigna radiata, Oryza sativa, and Zea mays, while homologous of Arabidopsis MYB75, MYB90, MYB113, and MYB114 were not detected in rice and maize genomes. The identified MYB proteins were classified into three groups (I-III) based on phylogeny. Sequence and domain analysis revealed presence of two conserved DNA binding MYB domains in the selected MYB proteins. Promoter analysis indicated presence of cis-regulatory elements related to light signaling, development, and stress response. Expression analysis of selected Arabidopsis MYB genes revealed their function in plant development and abiotic stress response, consistent with gene ontology annotations. Together, these results provide a useful framework for further experimental studies for the functional characterization of the target MYB genes in the context of regulation of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and plant stress response.
Adzuki beans (Vigna angularis), one of the most important legume crops in East Asia, have been shown to possess potential antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects in mice. Here, we investigated the effects of black adzuki bean (BAB) on colon inflammation triggered by high-fat diet (HD)-induced obesity in mice. We also isolated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated peritoneal macrophages and assessed inflammation-related parameters. We found that BAB decreased the concentrations of LPS and various circulating proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-6 in mice with HD-induced obesity. BAB also attenuated changes associated with HD-induced colon inflammation, such as increased expression of proinflammatory cytokines. Moreover, BAB inhibited induction of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, and activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) in the colon. Furthermore, BAB upregulated colon mRNA expression of tight junction-associated proteins such as claudin-1 and Zo-1, as well as mucosal barrier defense promoting genes such as mucin (Muc) 1 and Muc3. BAB also reduced macrophage infiltration into adipose tissue in mice with HD-induced intestinal inflammation. In LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages, treatment with BAB significantly decreased TNF-α and NO production, NF-κB activation, and iNOS expression. Our findings indicate that BAB ameliorates HD-induced disorders such as obesity and colitis by improving mucosal barrier protection and reducing endotoxemia, as well as by inactivating NF-κB to decrease the production of proinflammatory cytokines.
Hydrogen peroxide (H RNA-Seq data revealed that H Using RNA-Seq and qRT-PCR techniques, we analysed the global changes in gene expression and functional profiling during H
Cereals and legumes are traditionally consumed together in many cultures, and may provide complementary health benefits beyond what is known about improved indispensable amino acid intake. Here, we use an in vitro model of inflammatory pathways to investigate whether the different flavonoids in sorghum and cowpea could synergistically reduce inflammation. Interactive effect of combining apigenin and quercetin, as well as extracts (70% acetone, v/v) from a flavone-dominated white sorghum and flavonol-dominated white cowpea, against LPS-induced NF-κB and downstream cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8) gene and protein expression was evaluated using the CCD18Co colon myofibroblasts. Combination of apigenin and quercetin, and sorghum and cowpea extracts synergistically downregulated LPS-induced NF-κB gene and protein expression in a dose-dependent manner, with additive effect producing IC Combining the structurally related cereal flavones and legume flavonols elicit strong synergistic anti-inflammatory response in LPS-stimulated nonmalignant colonocytes, likely by targeting interdependent mechanisms.
Cardiac hypertrophy is a major risk factor for heart failure. Hence, its attenuation represents an important clinical goal. Erk1,2 signalling is pivotal in the cardiac response to stress, suggesting that its inhibition may be a good strategy to revert heart hypertrophy. In this work, we unveiled the events associated with cardiac hypertrophy by means of a transgenic model expressing activated Met receptor. c-Met proto-oncogene encodes for the tyrosine kinase receptor of Hepatocyte growth factor and is a strong inducer of Ras-Raf-Mek-Erk1,2 pathway. We showed that three weeks after the induction of activated Met, the heart presents a remarkable concentric hypertrophy, with no signs of congestive failure and preserved contractility. Cardiac enlargement is accompanied by upregulation of growth-regulating transcription factors, natriuretic peptides, cytoskeletal proteins, and Extracellular Matrix remodelling factors (Timp1 and Pai1). At a later stage, cardiac hypertrophic remodelling results into heart failure with preserved systolic function. Prevention trial by suppressing activated Met showed that cardiac hypertrophy is reversible, and progression to heart failure is prevented. Notably, treatment with Pimasertib, Mek1 inhibitor, attenuates cardiac hypertrophy and remodelling. Our results suggest that modulation of Erk1.2 signalling may constitute a new therapeutic approach for treating cardiac hypertrophies.
Bambara groundnut (Vigna subterranea (L.) Verdc.) is an African legume and is a promising underutilized crop with good seed nutritional values. Low temperature stress in a number of African countries at night, such as Botswana, can effect the growth and development of bambara groundnut, leading to losses in potential crop yield. Therefore, in this study we developed a computational pipeline to identify and analyze the genes and gene modules associated with low temperature stress responses in bambara groundnut using the cross-species microarray technique (as bambara groundnut has no microarray chip) coupled with network-based analysis. Analyses of the bambara groundnut transcriptome using cross-species gene expression data resulted in the identification of 375 and 659 differentially expressed genes (p<0.01) under the sub-optimal (23°C) and very sub-optimal (18°C) temperatures, respectively, of which 110 genes are commonly shared between the two stress conditions. The construction of a Highest Reciprocal Rank-based gene co-expression network, followed by its partition using a Heuristic Cluster Chiseling Algorithm resulted in 6 and 7 gene modules in sub-optimal and very sub-optimal temperature stresses being identified, respectively. Modules of sub-optimal temperature stress are principally enriched with carbohydrate and lipid metabolic processes, while most of the modules of very sub-optimal temperature stress are significantly enriched with responses to stimuli and various metabolic processes. Several transcription factors (from MYB, NAC, WRKY, WHIRLY & GATA classes) that may regulate the downstream genes involved in response to stimulus in order for the plant to withstand very sub-optimal temperature stress were highlighted. The identified gene modules could be useful in breeding for low-temperature stress tolerant bambara groundnut varieties.
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) is commonly grown in Asia as an important nutritional dry grain legume, as it can survive better in arid conditions than other crops. Abiotic stresses, such as drought and high-salt contents, negatively impact its growth and production. The dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2 (DREB2) transcription factors play a significant role in the response to these stress stimuli via transcriptional regulation of downstream genes containing the cis-element dehydration-responsive element (DRE). However, the molecular mechanisms involved in the drought tolerance of this species remain elusive, with very few reported candidate genes. No DREB2 ortholog has been reported for mung bean, and the function of mung bean DREB2 is not clear. In this study, a novel VrDREB2A gene with conserved AP2 domains and transactivation ability was isolated from mung bean. A modified VrDREB2A protein lacking the putative negative regulatory domain encoded by nucleotides 394-543 was shown to be localized in the nucleus. Expression of the VrDREB2A gene was induced by drought, high salt concentrations and abscisic acid treatment. Furthermore, comparing with the wild type Arabidopsis, the overexpression of VrDREB2A activated the expression of downstream genes in transgenic Arabidopsis, resulting in enhanced tolerance to drought and high-salt stresses and no growth retardation. The results from this study indicate that VrDREB2A functions as an important transcriptional activator and may help increase the abiotic stress tolerance of the mung bean plant.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease associated with a combination of synovium joint inflammation, synovium hyperplasia, and destruction of cartilage and bone. Oleanolic acid acetate (OAA), a compound isolated from Vigna angularis, has been known to possess pharmacological activities, including anti-inflammation and anti-bone destruction. In this study, we investigated the effects of OAA on RA and the underlying mechanisms of action by using a type-II collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α-stimulated RA synovial fibroblasts. Oral administration of OAA decreased the clinical arthritis symptoms, paw thickness, histologic and radiologic changes, and serum total and anti-type II collagen IgG, IgG1, and IgG2a levels. OAA administration reduced Th1/Th17 phenotype CD4(+) T lymphocyte expansions and inflammatory cytokine productions in T cell activated draining lymph nodes and spleen. OAA reduced the expression and production of inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1/3, in the ankle joint tissue and RA synovial fibroblasts by down-regulating Akt, mitogen-activated protein kinases, and nuclear factor-κB. Our results clearly support that OAA plays a therapeutic role in RA pathogenesis by modulating helper T cell immune responses and matrix-degrading enzymes. The immunosuppressive effects of OAA were comparable to dexamethasone and ketoprofen. We provide evidences that OAA could be a potential therapeutic candidate for RA.
The rice bean (Vigna umbellata) root apex specifically secretes citrate through expression activation of Vigna umbellata Multidrug and Toxic Compound Extrusion 1 (VuMATE1) under aluminum (Al(3+) ) stress. However, the underlying mechanisms regulating VuMATE1 expression remain unknown. We isolated and characterized a gene encoding Sensitive to Proton Rhizotoxicity1 (STOP1)-like protein, VuSTOP1, from rice bean. The role of VuSTOP1 in regulating VuMATE1 expression was investigated using the yeast one-hybrid assay. We characterized the function of VuSTOP1 in Al(3) (+) - and H(+) -tolerance using in planta complementation assays. We demonstrated that VuSTOP1 has transactivation potential. We found that VuSTOP1 expression is inducible by Al(3+) and H(+) stress. However, although VuSTOP1 binds to the promoter of VuMATE1, the inconsistent tissue localization patterns of VuSTOP1 and VuMATE1 preclude VuSTOP1 as the major factor regulating VuMATE1 expression. In addition, when a protein translation inhibitor increased expression of VuSTOP1, VuMATE1 expression was inhibited. In planta complementation assay demonstrated that VuSTOP1 could fully restore expression of genes involved in H(+) tolerance, but could only partially restore expression of AtMATE. We conclude that VuSTOP1 plays a major role in H(+) tolerance, but only a minor role in Al(3+) tolerance. The differential transcriptional regulation of VuSTOP1 and VuMATE1 reveals a complex regulatory system controlling VuMATE1 expression.
The aim of this work was to investigate the effects of black adzuki bean (BAB) extract on adipocytes, and to elucidate the cellular mechanisms. In order to examine the proliferation of preadipocytes and differentiating adipocytes, cell viability and DNA content were measured over a period of time. Lipid accumulation during cell differentiation and the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of BAB on the transcriptional factors involved, with their anti-adipogenic effects, were also identified. We observed that BAB exhibits anti-adipogenic effects through the inhibition of proliferation, thereby lowering mRNA expression of C/EBPβ and suppressing adipogenesis during the early stage of differentiation. This, in turn, resulted in a reduction of TG accumulation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Treating the cells with BAB not only suppressed the adipogenesis-associated key transcription factors PPARγ and C/EBPα but also significantly decreased the mRNA expression of GLUT4, FABP4, LPL and adiponectin. The expression of lipolytic genes like ATGL and HSL were higher in the treatment group than in the control. Overall, the black adzuki bean extract demonstrated an anti-adipogenic property, which makes it a potential dietary supplement for attenuation of obesity.
A novel, Gram-staining-negative, rod-shaped, aerobic and motile bacterium, designated strain CC-SKC2(T), was isolated from the root tumor of a green bell pepper (Capsicum annuum var. grossum) plant in Taiwan. Cells were positive for oxidase and catalase activities and exhibited growth at 25-37 °C, pH 4.0-9.0 and tolerated NaCl concentrations up to 4.0 % (w/v). Strain CC-SKC2(T) is able to trigger nodulation in soybean (Glycine max Merr.), but not in Capsicum annuum var. grossum, red bean (Vigna angularis), sesbania (Sesbania roxburghii Merr.) or alfalfa (Medicago varia Martin.). The novel strain shared highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to Rhizobium rhizoryzae KCTC 23652(T) and Rhizobium straminoryzae CC-LY845(T) (both 97.5 %) followed by Rhizobium lemnae L6-16(T) (97.3 %), Rhizobium pseudoryzae KCTC 23294(T) (97.1 %), and Rhizobium paknamense NBRC 109338(T) (97.0 %), whereas other Rhizobium species shared <96.7 % similarity. The DNA-DNA relatedness values of strain CC-SKC2(T) with R. rhizoryzae KCTC 23652(T), R. pseudoryzae KCTC 23294(T) and R. paknamense NBRC 109338(T) were 11.4, 17.2 and 17.0 %, respectively (reciprocal values were 11.1, 28.3 and 24.0 %, respectively). Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA, atpD and recA genes revealed a distinct taxonomic position attained by strain CC-SKC2(T) with respect to other Rhizobium species. The major fatty acids in strain CC-SKC2(T) were C16:0, C19:0 cyclo ω8c, C14:0 3-OH and/or C16:1 iso I and C18:1 ω7c and/or C18:1 ω6c. The polyamine pattern showed predominance of spermidine and moderate amounts of sym-homospermidine. The predominant quinone system was ubiquinone (Q-10) and the DNA G+C content was 60.5 mol%. On the basis of polyphasic taxonomic evidence presented here, strain CC-SKC2(T) is proposed to represent a novel species within the genus Rhizobium, for which the name Rhizobium capsici sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is CC-SKC2(T) (=BCRC 80699(T) = JCM 19535(T)).
The prevalence of black gram (Vigna mungo) induced allergic reactions are reported from several parts of the world including Asia and Australia. But, a thorough exploration of the allergic reactions induced by black gram proteins is still lacking. Therefore, efforts have been made to explore black gram allergy using in vivo and in vitro approaches. In this study, Simulated Gastric Fluid (SGF) assay and IgE immunoblotting were carried out to identify clinically relevant allergens of black gram. BALB/c mice and RBL-2H3 cells were used for elucidation of allergenic reactions of black gram proteins. Further, this study was extended to screen black gram sensitive patients among nasobronchial allergic patients on the basis of clinical history, skin prick test (SPT), specific IgE levels and IgE immunoblotting. Enhanced levels of specific IgE, IgG1/IgG2a (p < 0.05), histamine (p < 0.05), clinical symptoms, pathological indications in the lungs, intestine and spleen were evident in black gram sensitized BALB/c mice. Moreover, the expression of Th2 cytokine transcripts and GATA-3/T-bet ratio was found enhanced in the treated group. In vitro studies on RBL-2H3 cells,showed increased release of β-hexosaminidase (p < 0.05), histamine (p < 0.05), cysteinyl leukotriene (p<0.05) and prostaglandin D2 (p < 0.05). Further, 8.5% of screened patients were found allergic to black gram and concomitant sensitization with other allergens has shown the possibility of further enhancement in allergenic problem. Conclusively, the present study suggested that black gram consumption may be responsible for inducing immediate type of allergic sensitization in susceptible subjects.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important grain legume cultivated in drought-prone parts of the world, having higher tolerance to heat and drought than many other crops. The transcription factor, Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding protein 2A (DREB2A), controls expression of many genes involved in osmotic and heat stress responses of plants. In Arabidopsis, DREB2A-interacting proteins (DRIPs), which function as E3 ubiquitin ligases (EC 6.3.2.19), regulate the stability of DREB2A by targeting it for proteasome-mediated degradation. In this study, we cloned the cowpea ortholog of DRIP (VuDRIP) using PCR based methods. The 1614 bp long VuDRIP mRNA encoded a protein of 433 amino acids having a C3HC4-type Really Interesting New Gene (RING) domain in the N-terminus and a C-terminal conserved region, similar to Arabidopsis DRIP1 and DRIP2. We found VuDRIP up-regulation in response to various abiotic stresses and phytohormones. Using yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisae) two-hybrid analysis, VuDRIP was identified as a VuDREB2A-interacting protein. The results indicate negative regulation of VuDREB2A by ubiquitin ligases in cowpea similar to Arabidopsis along with their other unknown roles in stress and hormone signaling pathways.
Osteoporosis is a global public health problem thought to be caused by an imbalance in bone metabolism. We examined in this study the 40% ethanol fraction of HP-20 resin in combination with a hot-water adzuki extract (EtEx.40) for its effect on osteoblast and osteoclast differentiation. EtEx.40-treated murine preosteoblast MC3T3-E1 cells exhibited significantly elevated alkaline phosphatase activity and mineralization. EtEx.40 facilitated osteoblast differentiation by up-regulating such osteoblast differentiation-related molecules as runt-related transcription factor 2, distal-less homeobox 5, and osterix via p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. EtEx.40 also suppressed the formation of large tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase-positive multinucleated cells in RAW264.7 cells that had been stimulated with the receptor activator of the nuclear factor κB ligand/macrophage colony-stimulating factor. EtEx.40 significantly inhibited NF-κB activation, thus reducing the expression of such downstream molecules as c-Fos and NFATc1. Our findings suggest that EtEx.40 could be used to maintain bone mass.
VuDREB2A exists in cowpea as a canonical DREB2-type transcription factor, having the ability to bind dehydration-responsive elements in vitro and confer enhanced drought resistance in transgenic Arabidopsis. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important cultivated legume that can survive better in arid conditions than other crops. But the molecular mechanisms involved in the drought tolerance of this species remain elusive with very few reported candidate genes. The Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding Protein2 (DREB2) group of transcription factors plays key roles in plant responses to drought. However, no DREB2 ortholog has been reported from cowpea so far. In this study, we isolated and characterized a gene from cowpea, namely VuDREB2A, encoding a protein of 377 amino acids exhibiting features of reported DREB2-type proteins. In cowpea, VuDREB2A transcript accumulation was highly induced by desiccation, heat and salt, but slightly by exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. We also isolated the VuDREB2A promoter and predicted stress-responsive cis-elements in it using Arabidopsis microarray data. The E. coli-expressed VuDREB2A protein showed binding to synthetic oligonucleotides with Dehydration-Responsive Elements (DREs) from Arabidopsis, in electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Heterologous expression of VuDREB2A in Arabidopsis significantly improved plant survival under drought. In addition, overexpression of a truncated version of VuDREB2A, after removal of a putative negative regulatory domain (between amino acids 132-182) led to a dwarf phenotype in the transgenic plants. Microarray and quantitative PCR analyses of VuDREB2A overexpressing Arabidopsis revealed up-regulation of stress-responsive genes having DRE overrepresented in their promoters. In summary, our results indicate that VuDREB2A conserves the basic functionality and mode of regulation of DREB2A in Arabidopsis and could be a potent candidate gene for the genetic improvement of drought resistance in cowpea.
Owing to their potential pharmacological activities in human disease, natural plant-derived compounds have recently become the focus of increased research interest. In this study, we first isolated oleanolic acid acetate (OAA), a triterpenoid compound, from Vigna angularis (azuki bean) to discover anti-bone resorptive agents. Many studies have identified and described the various medicinal effects of V. angularis extract. However, the pharmacological effect of OAA-derived V. angularis extract, particularly the effect on osteoclastogenesis, is not known. Therefore, we investigated the effect and mechanism of OAA in receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL)-induced osteoclastogenesis. OAA inhibited RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation in bone marrow macrophages (BMMs) without any evidence of cytotoxicity. Interestingly, OAA significantly inhibited Btk phosphorylation, phospholipase Cγ2 (PLCγ2) phosphorylation, calcium ion (Ca(2+)) oscillation, and nuclear factor of activated T cell c1 (NFATc1) expression in RANKL-stimulated BMMs, but did not affect RANKL-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase. OAA also inhibited the bone-resorbing activity of mature osteoclasts. Furthermore, mice treated with OAA demonstrated marked attenuation of lipopolysaccharide-induced bone erosion based on micro-computed tomography and histologic analysis of femurs. Taken together, the results suggested that OAA inhibited RANKL-mediated osteoclastogenesis via PLCγ2-Ca(2+)-NFATc1 signaling in vitro and suppressed inflammatory bone loss in vivo.
In this work we have characterised the Sinorhizobium fredii HH103 greA lpsB lpsCDE genetic region and analysed for the first time the symbiotic performance of Sinorhizobium fredii lps mutants on soybean. The organization of the S. fredii HH103 greA, lpsB, and lpsCDE genes was equal to that of Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021. S. fredii HH103 greA, lpsB, and lpsE mutant derivatives produced altered LPS profiles that were characteristic of the gene mutated. In addition, S. fredii HH103 greA mutants showed a reduction in bacterial mobility and an increase of auto-agglutination in liquid cultures. RT-PCR and qPCR experiments demonstrated that the HH103 greA gene has a positive effect on the transcription of lpsB. Soybean plants inoculated with HH103 greA, lpsB or lpsE mutants formed numerous ineffective pseudonodules and showed severe symptoms of nitrogen starvation. However, HH103 greA and lps mutants were also able to induce the formation of a reduced number of soybean nodules of normal external morphology, allowing the possibility of studying the importance of bacterial LPS in later stages of the S. fredii HH103-soybean symbiosis. The infected cells of these nodules showed signs of early termination of symbiosis and lytical clearance of bacteroids. These cells also had very thick walls and accumulation of phenolic-like compounds, pointing to induced defense reactions. Our results show the importance of bacterial LPS in later stages of the S. fredii HH103-soybean symbiosis and their role in preventing host cell defense reactions. S. fredii HH103 lpsB mutants also showed reduced nodulation with Vigna unguiculata, although the symbiotic impairment was less pronounced than in soybean.
The present study was conducted in order to assess whether extracts or isolated compounds from Vigna angularis were able to suppress IL-6 signalling and to show the therapeutic effect on collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice. The effect of V. angularis on IL-6 signalling was studied by measuring Stat3-dependent luciferase activity, expression of inflammation-related genes, and phosphorylation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) induced by IL-6. CIA was induced by immunizing with bovine type II collagen. V. angularis extract (VAE) was administrated orally at 50 and 100 mg/kg from day 1 to day 28. Induction of arthritis was evaluated with a visual scoring system and histological analysis. Extracts or two triterpenoid compounds from V. angularis showed potent inhibitory effects on pSTAT3-inducible luciferase activity, STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation and the expression of inflammation-related genes induced by IL-6. Administration of VAE significantly suppressed the progression of CIA, accompanied by a reduced antibody response to type II collagen and protection from tissue damage in knee joints. Administration of VAE has a therapeutic effect on CIA and this effect is associated with the inhibitory activity on IL-6/STAT3 signalling. These results suggest that extracts or compounds from V. angularis could be a useful treatment for diseases related to IL-6, including RA.
To investigate the incidence and clinical relevance of classic and new prognostic markers, IGHV gene mutational status, and chromosomal abnormalities in clinical monoclonal B lymphocytosis (cMBL) compared with Rai stage 0 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (Rai0-CLL). A group of 136 patients with cMBL and a group of 216 Rai0-CLL cases were investigated prospectively. IGHV-mutated cases were significantly more frequent among cMBLs (P = 0.005), whereas the distribution of CD38 and ZAP-70 positive cases, of patients with NOTCH1 and SF3B1 mutations or exhibiting the major CLL cytogenetic abnormalities, was similar in the two groups. Moreover, no significant differences were found either in IGHV/IGHD/IGHJ gene usage or in the overall prevalence of stereotyped IGHV gene sequences. Cells from cMBL and Rai0-CLL exhibited similar gene and microRNA (miRNA) signatures; in addition, when grouped according to the IGHV mutational status, IGHV-unmutated cases showed different transcriptional signatures compared with IGHV-mutated patients, irrespective of the cMBL or Rai0-CLL classification. cMBL diagnosis per se was predictive of longer progression-free survival. Our study based on a prospective series of patients indicates that no major differences exist between the circulating cells from cMBL and Rai0-CLL, at least based on a comparison of the markers used in the study. This possibly suggests that the two conditions mainly differ in the initial size of the monoclonal cell population, which may influence the subsequent timing of clonal expansion and clinical manifestations.
The aim of the present study was to elucidate whether extracts of Vigna angularis (EVA) inhibit allergic inflammatory reactions and to elucidate the possible mechanisms of action. For the assessment of allergic inflammatory response, histamine release and the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines from human mast cells (HMC-1) were examined. To identify the underlying mechanisms of action, intracellular calcium and the activation of nuclear factor (NF)-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) were assayed. To confirm the effects of EVA in vivo, systemic and local allergic reaction mouse models were employed. EVA dose-dependently reduced phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and calcium ionophore A23187 (PMACI)-induced histamine release from mast cells. The inhibitory effects of EVA on the release of histamine from mast cells were mediated by the reduction of intracellular calcium levels. EVA decreased the PMACI-stimulated gene expression and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interleukin (IL)-6. The inhibitory effects of EVA on pro-inflammatory cytokines were NF-κB- and MAPK-dependent. In addition, EVA inhibited compound 48/80-induced systemic anaphylaxis and immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated cutaneous anaphylaxis. Our findings provide evidence that EVA inhibits mast cell-derived allergic inflammation, and suggest the possible therapeutic application of EVA in allergic inflammatory disorders.
In patients with metastatic breast cancer, the evaluation of the biological characteristics of metastatic bone deposits may be a valuable adjunct in clinical practice. We assessed the discordance in expression levels for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PgR) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) between primary tumor and bone metastases and its clinical impact on patient management. We retrospectively reviewed 363 CT-guided bone biopsies performed from January 1997 to December 2009. The proportions of ER, PgR and HER2 positive tumors at primary diagnosis and bone metastases, determined by IHC and/or FISH, were compared using McNemar's test. The impact of the biopsy reassessment on treatment choice was evaluated with Fisher's exact test. We selected 109 metastatic breast cancer patients with histologically confirmed bone metastases. Among 107 assessable patients the overall discordance rate was detected in 22 (20.5%) and in 47 (43.9%) patients for ER and PgR, respectively, and in six of 86 assessable patients (6.9%) for HER2 status. The indication to change endocrine therapy occurred in 62% and 30% of patients with ER discordance and ER concordance, respectively (p = 0.01). The indication to change targeted therapy occurred in 67% and 8% of patients with HER2 discordance and HER2 concordance, respectively (p = 0.002). We confirm that biopsy of metastases, including bone metastases, for reassessment of biology should be considered, since it is likely to impact on treatment choice.
Moth bean ( Vigna aconitifolia (Jacq.) Marechal) is an important grain legume crop grown in rain fed areas of hot desert regions of Thar, India, under scorching sun rays with very little supplementation of water. An SSH cDNA library was generated from leaf tissues of V. aconitifolia var. RMO-40 exposed to an elevated temperature of 42 °C for 5 min to identify early-induced genes. A total of 488 unigenes (114 contigs and 374 singletons) were derived by cluster assembly and sequence alignment of 738 ESTs; out of 206 ESTs (28%) of unknown proteins, 160 ESTs (14%) were found to be novel to moth bean. Only 578 ESTs (78%) showed significant BLASTX similarity (<1 × 10(-6)) in the NCBI non-redundant database. Gene ontology functional classification terms were retrieved for 479 (65%) sequences, and 339 sequences were annotated with 165 EC codes and mapped to 68 different KEGG pathways. Four hundred and fifty-two ESTs were further annotated with InterProScan (IPS), and no IPS was assigned to 153 ESTs. In addition, the expression level of 27 ESTs in response to heat stress was evaluated through semiquantitative RT-PCR assay. Approximately 20 different signaling genes and 16 different transcription factors have been shown to be associated with heat stress in moth bean for the first time.
Fetal malnutrition is an early-life inducer of dyslipidemia and glucose intolerance. The aim of this study was to examine whether maternal azuki bean (Vigna angularis) polyphenol (AP) intake during lactation affects the adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway and lipid metabolism in offspring exposed to fetal malnutrition. Pregnant Wistar rats were divided into three groups: a control diet offered during gestation and lactation (CC), a low-protein diet during gestation and a control diet during lactation (LPC); and a low-protein diet during gestation and a 1.0% AP-containing control diet during lactation (LPAP). Male pups were randomly selected for the study; half the pups were sacrificed at 3 wk of age and the other half were fed a standard diet and sacrificed at 23 wk. Hepatic triacylglycerol levels, phosphorylation levels of AMPK and acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (ACC), and mRNA levels of sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c) were evaluated. Significant decreases in body weights and hepatic triacylglycerol levels were found in the LPAP compared with the LPC group. Plasma adiponectin levels in the LPAP group were higher than those in the LPC group. AMPK phosphorylation was upregulated in the livers and skeletal muscles in young and adult LPAP compared with LPC rats. ACC phosphorylation was upregulated in skeletal muscles of LPAP rats. SREBP-1c mRNA expression was decreased in the livers of LPAP rats. Our results suggest that maternal AP intake during lactation upregulates AMPK phosphorylation not only in young but also in adult offspring exposed to fetal malnutrition and may lead to decreased hepatic lipid accumulation by ACC phosphorylation and downregulation of SREBP-1c expression.
A MADS box gene AGL20/SOC1 is a main integrator in Arabidopsis flowering pathway whose structure and function are highly conserved in many plant species. A soybean MADS box gene GmGAL1 (Glycine max AGAMOUS Like 1) as a homolog of AGL20/SOC1, was cloned from soybean cultivar Kennong18 and its function was investigated in transgenic Arabidopsis lines. Sequence comparisons showed that the closest homolog gene to GmGAL1 is AGL20/SOC1 in Arabidopsis and VuSOC1 in Vigna unguiculata. We investigated the expression level of GmGAL1 using quantitative real-time PCR, and the result showed that GmGAL1 was regulated by a circadian mechanism and its expression oscillated at a cycle of 24 h. The expression level of GmGAL1 was fluctuated in diverse tissues/organs and developmental stages. Considering its expression can be detected in different tissues throughout the life cycle and its protein localized in cytoplasm in Arabidopsis protoplasm, we proposed that GmGAL1 may be a multifunctional gene in the context of the soybean development. Ectopic expression of GmGAL1 in Arabidopsis enhanced flowering under long-day condition and partially rescued soc1 late flowering type.
The aim of the study was to evaluate factors associated with early withdrawal from oncogenetic counseling. A comparison of psycho-social and personality characteristics of two samples of subjects, attendees and withdrawers was carried out. Self-report questionnaires were completed by 112 individuals who had completed counseling and to 56 individuals who withdrew from it. Individuals with few children (OR. 1,724; p = 0,017; CI = 1,101-2,700), a lower number of cancer affected relatives (OR. 1,301; p = 0,000; CI = 1,145-1,479), and with a lower hypomanic scale score (OR. 1,070; p = 0,004; CI = 1,022-1,121), were more likely to withdraw from counseling. It is important for the counselees to draw more attention to the fact that their cancer risk management and prevention is as fundamental as that of their children. Also, it is important to highlight the fact that having less cancer affected relatives does not necessarily mean being at lower risk. In conclusion, that subjects with low levels of psychological and emotional energy are those who probably need greater psychological support during the decision making process. We deem necessary that psychologists, involved in genetic counseling, investigate these aspects during their sessions in order to implement suitable interventions of psychological support during the entire counseling process.
Currently, the acquisition of tissue from metastatic deposits is not recommended as a routine practice. Our aim was to evaluate the discordance rate of estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PgR), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) receptor status between primary tumor and liver metastases and its potential impact on treatment choice. We retrospectively analyzed a database including 1250 ultrasound-guided liver biopsies carried out at the European Institute of Oncology from August 1999 to March 2009. ER, PgR, and HER2 status were determined by immunohistochemistry and/or FISH. Differences between proportions were evaluated using Fisher's exact test. We identified 255 consecutive patients with matched primary and liver tissue samples. Changes in ER status were observed in 37 of 255 patients (14.5%). Changes in PgR status were observed in 124 of 255 patients (48.6%). Changes in HER2 status were observed in 24 of 172 assessable patients (13.9%). We observed a discordance in receptor status (ER, PgR, and HER2) between primary tumor and liver metastases, which led to change in therapy for 31 of 255 of patients (12.1%). Biopsy of metastases for reassessment of biological features should be considered in all patients, when safe and easy to carry out, since it is likely to impact treatment choice.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenous, noncoding, short RNAs directly involved in regulating gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. High conservation of miRNAs in plant provides the foundation for identification of new miRNAs in other plant species through homology alignment. Here, previous known plant miRNAs were BLASTed against the Expressed Sequence Tag (EST) and Genomic Survey Sequence (GSS) databases of Vigna unguiculata, and according to a series of filtering criteria, a total of 47 miRNAs belonging to 13 miRNA families were identified, and 30 potential target genes of them were subsequently predicted, most of which seemed to encode transcription factors or enzymes participating in regulation of development, growth, metabolism, and other physiological processes. Overall, our findings lay the foundation for further researches of miRNAs function in Vigna unguiculata.
PhyR is an unusual type of response regulator consisting of a receiver domain and an extracytoplasmic function (ECF) sigma factor-like domain. It was recently described as a master regulator of general stress response in Methylobacterium extorquens. Orthologues of this regulator are present in essentially all free-living Alphaproteobacteria. In most of them, phyR is genetically closely linked to a gene encoding an ECF sigma factor. Here, we investigate the role of these two regulators in the soybean symbiont Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110. Using deletion mutants and phenotypic assays, we showed that PhyR and the ECF sigma factor sigma(EcfG) are involved in heat shock and desiccation resistance upon carbon starvation. Both mutants had symbiotic defects on the plant hosts Glycine max (soybean) and Vigna radiata (mungbean). They induced fewer nodules than the wild type and these nodules were smaller, less pigmented, and their specific nitrogenase activity was drastically reduced 2 or 3 weeks after inoculation. Four weeks after infection, soybean nodule development caught up to a large extent whereas most mungbean nodules remained defective even 5 weeks after infection. Remarkably, both mutants triggered aberrant nodules on the different host plants with ectopically emerging roots. Microarray analysis revealed that PhyR and sigma(EcfG) control congruent regulons suggesting both regulators are part of the same signalling cascade. This finding was further substantiated by in vitro protein-protein interaction studies which are in line with a partner-switching mechanism controlling gene regulation triggered by phosphorylation of PhyR. The large number of genes of unknown function present in the PhyR/sigma(EcfG) regulon and the conspicuous symbiotic phenotype suggest that these regulators are involved in the Bradyrhizobium-legume interaction via yet undisclosed mechanisms.
Bacteria were isolated from the root nodules of Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper, grown in an arsenic-contaminated field and the strain was selected by its nodulation ability as well as better arsenic tolerant capacity compared to others. The selected strain was identified as Rhizobium by 16S rDNA sequencing and designated as VMA301. Phylogenetic analysis of the gene sequences showed its close relatedness with Sinorhizobium fredii. LC(50) value of arsenate for the bacteria as determined by flow cytometry was found to be 2.8 mM and arsenic uptake was measured by atomic absorption spectrometry as 0.048 mg g(-1) biomass. The high amount of arsenic was toxic to the cell, which changed the morphology of the bacteria to an elongated shape. Presence of a transcriptional regulatory gene (ArsR) of the ars genetic system was confirmed by amplification and sequencing. The symbiotic property of the isolate was also confirmed by amplification and sequencing of the NodC gene. These results indicate that the isolated Rhizobium bacteria may exert dual roles in the environment, arsenic bioremediation from the soil as well as increase of soil fertility through nitrogen fixation.
Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp., is one of the most important food and forage legumes in the semi-arid tropics because of its drought tolerance and ability to grow on poor quality soils. Approximately 80% of cowpea production takes place in the dry savannahs of tropical West and Central Africa, mostly by poor subsistence farmers. Despite its economic and social importance in the developing world, cowpea remains to a large extent an underexploited crop. Among the major goals of cowpea breeding and improvement programs is the stacking of desirable agronomic traits, such as disease and pest resistance and response to abiotic stresses. Implementation of marker-assisted selection and breeding programs is severely limited by a paucity of trait-linked markers and a general lack of information on gene structure and organization. With a nuclear genome size estimated at ~620 Mb, the cowpea genome is an ideal target for reduced representation sequencing. We report here the sequencing and analysis of the gene-rich, hypomethylated portion of the cowpea genome selectively cloned by methylation filtration (MF) technology. Over 250,000 gene-space sequence reads (GSRs) with an average length of 610 bp were generated, yielding ~160 Mb of sequence information. The GSRs were assembled, annotated by BLAST homology searches of four public protein annotation databases and four plant proteomes (A. thaliana, M. truncatula, O. sativa, and P. trichocarpa), and analyzed using various domain and gene modeling tools. A total of 41,260 GSR assemblies and singletons were annotated, of which 19,786 have unique GenBank accession numbers. Within the GSR dataset, 29% of the sequences were annotated using the Arabidopsis Gene Ontology (GO) with the largest categories of assigned function being catalytic activity and metabolic processes, groups that include the majority of cellular enzymes and components of amino acid, carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. A total of 5,888 GSRs had homology to genes encoding transcription factors (TFs) and transcription associated factors (TAFs) representing about 5% of the total annotated sequences in the dataset. Sixty-two (62) of the 64 well-characterized plant transcription factor (TF) gene families are represented in the cowpea GSRs, and these families are of similar size and phylogenetic organization to those characterized in other plants. The cowpea GSRs also provides a rich source of genes involved in photoperiodic control, symbiosis, and defense-related responses. Comparisons to available databases revealed that about 74% of cowpea ESTs and 70% of all legume ESTs were represented in the GSR dataset. As approximately 12% of all GSRs contain an identifiable simple-sequence repeat, the dataset is a powerful resource for the design of microsatellite markers. The availability of extensive publicly available genomic data for cowpea, a non-model legume with significant importance in the developing world, represents a significant step forward in legume research. Not only does the gene space sequence enable the detailed analysis of gene structure, gene family organization and phylogenetic relationships within cowpea, but it also facilitates the characterization of syntenic relationships with other cultivated and model legumes, and will contribute to determining patterns of chromosomal evolution in the Leguminosae. The micro and macrosyntenic relationships detected between cowpea and other cultivated and model legumes should simplify the identification of informative markers for marker-assisted trait selection and map-based gene isolation necessary for cowpea improvement.
Prior in vitro studies suggested that different types of hematopoietic stem cells may differentiate into cardiomyocytes. The present work examined whether human CD34(+) cells from the human umbilical cord blood (hUCB), cocultured with neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes, acquire the functional properties of myocardial cells and express human cardiac genes. hUCB CD34(+) cells were cocultured onto cardiomyocytes following an infection with a lentivirus-encoding enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). After 7 days, mononucleated EGFP(+) cells were tested for their electrophysiological features by patch clamp and for cytosolic [Ca(2+)] ([Ca(2+)](i)) homeostasis by [Ca(2+)](i) imaging of X-rhod1-loaded cells. Human Nkx2.5 and GATA-4 expression was examined in cocultured cell populations by real-time RT-PCR. EGFP(+) cells were connected to surrounding cells by gap junctions, acquired electrophysiological properties similar to those of cardiomyocytes, and showed action potential-associated [Ca(2+)](i) transients. These cells also exhibited spontaneous sarcoplasmic reticulum [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations and the associated membrane potential depolarization. However, RT-PCR of both cell populations showed no upregulation of human-specific cardiac genes. In conclusion, under our experimental conditions, hUCB CD34(+) cells cocultured with murine cardiomyocytes formed cells that exhibited excitation-contraction coupling features similar to those of cardiomyocytes. However, the expression of human-specific cardiac genes was undetectable by RT-PCR.
During cardiac development, the epicardium is the source of multipotent mesenchymal cells, which give rise to endothelial and smooth muscle cells in coronary vessels and also, possibly, to cardiomyocytes. The aim of the present study was to determine whether stem cells are retained in the adult human and murine epicardium and to investigate the regenerative potential of these cells following acute myocardial infarction. We show that c-kit(+) and CD34(+) cells can indeed be detected in human fetal and adult epicardium and that they represent 2 distinct populations. Both subsets of cells were negative for CD45, a cell surface marker that identifies the hematopoietic cell lineage. Immunofluorescence revealed that freshly isolated c-kit(+) and CD34(+) cells expressed early and late cardiac transcription factors and could acquire an endothelial phenotype in vitro. In the murine model of myocardial infarction, there was an increase in the absolute number and proliferation of epicardial c-kit(+) cells 3 days after coronary ligation; at this time point, epicardial c-kit(+) cells were identified in the subepicardial space and expressed GATA4. Furthermore, 1 week after myocardial infarction, cells coexpressing c-kit(+), together with endothelial or smooth muscle cell markers, were identified in the wall of subepicardial blood vessels. In summary, the postnatal epicardium contains a cell population with stem cell characteristics that retains the ability to give rise to myocardial precursors and vascular cells. These cells may play a role in the regenerative response to cardiac damage.
Phlox paniculata L., a perennial plant from the family Polemoniaceae, is cultivated as an ornamental in gardens and for cut-flower production. In spring 2003, two types of symptoms were observed in P. paniculata plants grown for cut flowers on a farm in the Var department, France. Some plants showed a mild leaf mosaic while others showed leaf browning and delayed growth. In plants showing mild mosaic, Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) was detected on the basis of the symptoms exhibited by a range of inoculated plants, the observation of isometric particles (approximately 30 nm) with the electron microscope in crude sap preparations from the infected plants, and the positive reaction in double-antibody sandwich (DAS)-ELISA to polyclonal antibodies raised against CMV (1). In double-immunodiffusion analysis, the five tested isolates were shown to belong to group II of CMV strains. To determine if CMV was responsible for the symptoms observed, one isolate was multiplied in Nicotiana tabacum cv. Xanthi-nc plants after isolation from local lesions on Vigna unguiculata and mechanically inoculated to 12 1-year-old P. paniculata plants. At 3 months post inoculation (mpi), all plants showed mild mosaic and CMV was detected by DAS-ELISA. In sap preparations from P. paniculata plants showing leaf browning symptoms, rod-shaped particles with two distinct sizes of 190 to 210 and 70 to 90 nm long, typical of those associated with tobraviruses, were revealed using electron microscopy. Local lesions typical of Tobacco rattle virus (TRV) were observed after inoculation of N. tabacum cv. Xanthi-nc, Chenopodium amaranticolor, and C. quinoa. Total nucleic acid preparations were prepared from symptomatic plants, and amplicons of the expected size (463 bp) were generated by reverse-transcription (RT)-PCR using primers specific to TRV RNA 1 (4). The nucleotide sequence of one amplicon was 93.6% identical to the sequence of a reference TRV isolate (GenBank Accession No. AJ586803). Twelve 1-year-old P. paniculata plants were mechanically inoculated with an extract of infected tissues from one symptomatic P. paniculata plant. TRV was detected 2 to 6 mpi in apical leaves of all inoculated plants by RT-PCR, although the plants did not express symptoms. Since no other pathogens were detected in the source plants, it is plausible that the lack of symptoms in back-inoculated plants is either due to a long incubation period or an interaction with particular environmental factors such as cold conditions. The survey of approximately 200 plants revealed that approximately 7, 10, and 1% were infected by TRV, CMV, or by both viruses, respectively. CMV and TRV were previously detected in P. paniculata in Latvian SSR and in Lithuania (2,3). These results show that sanitary selection of P. paniculata prior to vegetative propagation should include a screening for TRV and CMV infections. References: (1) J.-C. Devergne et al. Ann. Phytopathol. 10:233, 1978. (2) Y. Ignab and A. Putnaergle. Tr. Latv. S.-Kh. Akad. 118:27, 1977. (3) M. Navalinskiene and M. Samuitiene. Biologija 1:52, 1996. (4) D. J. Robinson. J. Virol. Methods 40:57, 1992.
Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna (MYMV-Vig) is a bipartite geminivirus that causes a severe yellow mosaic disease in blackgram. An assay was developed to study MYMV-Vig replication by agroinoculation of tobacco leaf discs with partial dimers of the virus. This assay, in a non-host model plant, was used to evaluate pathogen-derived resistance contributed by MYMV-Vig genes in transgenic plants. Viral DNA accumulation was optimum in tobacco leaf discs cultured for 10 days after infection with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain Ach5 containing partial dimers of both DNA A and DNA B of MYMV-Vig. Transgenic tobacco plants with MYMV-Vig genes for coat protein (CP), replication-associated protein (Rep)-sense, Rep-antisense, truncated Rep (T-Rep), nuclear shuttle protein (NSP) and movement protein (MP) were generated. Leaf discs from transgenic tobacco plants, harbouring MYMV-Vig genes, were agroinoculated with partial dimers of MYMV-Vig and analyzed for viral DNA accumulation. The leaf discs from transgenic tobacco plants harbouring CP and MP genes supported the accumulation of higher levels of MYMV-Vig DNA. However, MYMV-Vig accumulation was inhibited in one transgenic plant harbouring the Rep-sense gene and in two plants harbouring the T-Rep gene. Northern analysis of these plants revealed a good correlation between expression of Rep or T-Rep genes and inhibition of MYMV-Vig accumulation.
Flavonoids secreted by host plants activate, in conjunction with the transcriptional activator NodD, nod gene expression of rhizobia resulting in the synthesis of Nod factors, which trigger nodule organogenesis. Interestingly, addition of inducing flavonoids also stimulates the production of the phytohormone indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) in several rhizobia. Here, the molecular basis of IAA synthesis in Rhizobium sp. NGR234 was investigated. Mass spectrometric analysis of culture supernatants indicated that NGR234 is capable of synthesizing IAA via three different pathways. The production of IAA is increased strongly by exposure of NGR234 to daidzein in a NodD1-, NodD2-, and SyrM2-dependent manner. This suggests that the y4wEFG locus that is downstream of nod-box NB15 encodes proteins involved in IAA synthesis. Knockout mutations in y4wE and y4wF abolished flavonoid-inducible IAA synthesis and a functional y4wF was required for constitutive IAA production. The promoter activity of NB15 and IAA production both were enhanced by introduction of a multicopy plasmid carrying nodD2 into NGR234. Surprisingly, the y4wE mutant still nodulated Vigna unguiculata and Tephrosia vogelii, although the nodules contained less IAA and IAA conjugates than those formed by the wild-type bacterium.
We have investigated in Sinorhizobium fredii HH103-1 (=HH103 Str(r)) the influence of the nolR gene on the production of three different bacterial symbiotic signals: Nod factors, signal responsive (SR) proteins, and exopolysaccharide (EPS). The presence of multiple copies of nolR (in plasmid pMUS675) repressed the transcription of all the flavonoid-inducible genes analyzed: nodA, nodD1, nolO, nolX, noeL, rhcJ, hesB, and y4pF. Inactivation of nolR (mutant SVQ517) or its overexpression (presence of pMUS675) altered the amount of Nod factors detected. Mutant SVQ517 produced Nod factors carrying N-methyl residues at the nonreducing N-acetyl-glucosamine, which never have been detected in S. fredii HH103. Plasmid pMUS675 increased the amounts of EPS produced by HH103-1 and SVQ517. The flavonoid genistein repressed EPS production of HH103-1 and SVQ517 but the presence of pMUS675 reduced this repression. The presence of plasmid pMUS675 clearly decreased the secretion of SR proteins. Inactivation, or overexpression, of nolR decreased the capacity of HH103 to nodulate Glycine max. However, HH103-1 and SVQ517 carrying plasmid pMUS675 showed enhanced nodulation capacity with Vigna unguiculata. The nolR gene was positively identified in all S. fredii strains investigated, S. xinjiangense CCBAU110, and S. saheli USDA4102. Apparently, S. teranga USDA4101 does not contain this gene.
ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3 (EIN3) is a transcription factor involved in the ethylene signal transduction pathway in Arabidopsis. Two full-length cDNA clones, pVR-EIL1 and pVR-EIL2, encoding EIN3-LIKE proteins were isolated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and by screening the cDNA library of mung bean (Vigna radiata) hypocotyls. VR-EIL1 and VR-EIL2 share 70% identity and display varying degrees of sequence conservation (39%-65%) with previously isolated EIN3 homologs from Arabidopsis, tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) plants. Gel retardation assay revealed that both VR-EILs were able to interact specifically with optimal binding sequence-1, the recently identified optimal binding sequence for tobacco TEIL, with the binding of VR-EIL2 being more efficient than that of VR-EIL1. Transient expression analysis using a VR-EIL::smGFP fusion gene in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells indicated that the VR-EIL proteins were effectively targeted to the nucleus. The fusion protein of VR-EIL2 with GAL4 DNA-binding domain strongly activated transcription of a reporter gene in yeast cells, and an essential domain for transcription-stimulating activity was localized to the amino-terminal acidic region that consists of 50 amino acid residues. In contrast with what has been previously found in EIN3- and TEIL-overexpressing Arabidopsis plants, transgenic tobacco seedlings expressing the VR-EIL genes under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter did not exhibit a constitutive triple response. Instead, they displayed a markedly enhanced proliferation of root hairs, one of the typical ethylene response phenotypes, and increased sensitivity to exogenous ethylene. In addition, the pathogenesis-related (PR) genes encoding beta-1,3-glucanase, osmotin, and PR1 were constitutively expressed in 35S::VR-EIL lines without added ethylene, and were hyperinduced in response to ethylene treatment. These results indicate that VR-EILs are functional in tobacco cells, thereby effectively transactivating the GCC-box-containing PR genes and enhancing sensitivity to ethylene. The possible physiological role of VR-EILs is discussed in the light of the suggestion that they are active components of the ethylene-signaling pathway and their heterologous expressions constitutively turn on a subset of ethylene responses in tobacco plants.
Seven legume extracts containing phytoestrogens were analyzed for estrogenic activity. Methanol extracts were prepared from soybean (Glycine max L.), green bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), alfalfa sprout (Medicago sativa L.), mung bean sprout (Vigna radiata L.), kudzu root (Pueraria lobata L.), and red clover blossom and red clover sprout (Trifolium pratense L.). Extracts of kudzu root and red clover blossom showed significant competitive binding to estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta). Estrogenic activity was determined using an estrogen-dependent MCF-7 breast cancer cell proliferation assay. Kudzu root, red clover blossom and sprout, mung bean sprout, and alfalfa sprout extracts displayed increased cell proliferation above levels observed with estradiol. The pure estrogen antagonist, ICI 182,780, suppressed cell proliferation induced by the extracts, suggesting an ER-related signaling pathway was involved. The ER subtype-selective activities of legume extracts were examined using transiently transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK 293) cells. All seven of the extracts exhibited preferential agonist activity toward ERbeta. Using HPLC to collect fractions and MCF-7 cell proliferation, the active components in kudzu root extract were determined to be the isoflavones puerarin, daidzin, genistin, daidzein, and genistein. These results show that several legumes are a source of phytoestrogens with high levels of estrogenic activity.
The ornithine transaminase (otaA) gene of Aspergillus nidulans has been cloned by transformation of the A. nidulans pro-ota- mutant strain with a cosmid gene library. The otaA gene contains two introns and potentially codes for a 453-aa-long protein. The deduced amino-acid sequence is homologous to known ornithine transaminases from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Plasmodium falciparum, Vigna aconitifolia, rat, mouse and man, particularly in the pyridoxal phosphate-binding domain. The expression of the otaA gene is specifically induced by arginine, and is also under the control of nitrogen-metabolite and carbon-catabolite repression. Regulation of the gene occurs at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. The promoter region of otaA contains putative AREA and CREA binding-sites. Fusion proteins containing AREA or CREA DNA-binding domains bind some of these sites. CREA binding-sites correspond very well to the CREA-binding consensus sequence which is SYGGRG. AREA binding-sites are composed of GATT sequences which are not typical binding sites for the GATA - binding family of transcription factors.
Transcriptional regulators of the lysR family largely control the expression of bacterial symbiotic genes. Rhizobium sp. NGR234 contains at least four members of this family: two resemble nodD, while two others are more closely related to syrM. Part of the extremely broad host range of NGR234 can be attributed to nodD1, although the second gene shares a high degree of DNA sequence homology with nodD2 of R. fredii USDA191. A nodD2 mutant of NGR234 was constructed by insertional mutagenesis. This mutant (NGR omega nodD2) was deficient in nitrogen fixation on Vigna unguiculata and induced pseudonodules on Tephrosia vogelii. Several other host plants were tested, but no correlation could be drawn between the phenotype and nodule morphology. Moreover, nodD2 has a negative effect on the production of Nod factors: mutation of this gene results in a fivefold increase in Nod factor production. Surprisingly, while the structure of Nod factors from free-living cultures of NGR omega nodD2 remained unchanged, those from V. unguiculata nodules induced by the same strain are non-fucosylated and have a lower degree of oligomerization. In other words, developmental regulation of Nod factor production is also abolished in this mutant. Competitive RNA hybridizations, gene fusions and mobility shift assays confirmed that nodD2 downregulates expression of the nodABC operon.
Three cDNAs (ext3, ext127, and ext26), originally isolated by differential screening from a root-hair cDNA library of Vigna unguiculata, were found to encode extensin-like cell wall proteins. Transcripts homologous to these cDNAs were only detected in root hairs where mRNA levels decreased 1 day after inoculation with rhizobia. This coincided with the onset of root-hair deformation, the first morphological step in the Rhizobium-legume interaction. Decreases in transcript levels following inoculation with wild-type Rhizobium sp. NGR234 were more pronounced than with NGR delta nodABC, a mutant deficient in Nod-factor production. Inoculation with a rhizobial strain carrying a mutation in a gene encoding a transcriptional activator for nod genes (NGR delta nodD1) did not repress mRNA levels, indicating that a second nodulation signal may be present that is nodD dependent. Application of purified NodNGR factors only affected transcript levels of ext3. The genomic locus of the gene homologous to ext26 (Ext26G) was cloned. In the 5' flanking region, several potential TATA boxes and CAP signals were identified. Part of the promoter region shares homology with the Pisum sativum seed lectin promoter and the Nicotiana tabacum nitrate reductase promoter region. Nonetheless, the function of these homologous regions in gene regulation is unknown.
The common nodulation locus and closely linked nodulation genes of Bradyrhizobium (Arachis) sp. strain NC92 have been isolated on an 11.0-kb EcoRI restriction fragment. The nucleotide sequence of a 7.0-kb EcoRV-EcoRI subclone was determined and found to contain open reading frames (ORFs) homologous to the nodA, nodB, nodD1, nodD2, and nolA genes of Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Bradyrhizobium elkanii. Nodulation assays of nodD1, nodD2, or nolA deletion mutants on the host plants Macroptilium atropurpureum (siratro) and Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) indicate that nolA is required for efficient nodulation, as nolA mutants exhibit a 6-day nodulation delay and reduced nodule numbers. The nolA phenotype was complemented by providing the nolA ORF in trans, indicating that the phenotype is due to the lack of the nolA ORF. nodD1 mutants displayed a 2-day nodulation delay, whereas nodD2 strains were indistinguishable from the wild type. Translational nodA-lacZ, nodD1-lacZ, nodD2-lacZ, and nolA-lacZ fusions were created. Expression of the nodA-lacZ fusion was induced by the addition of peanut, cowpea, and siratro seed exudates and by the addition of the isoflavonoids genistein and daidzein. In a nodD1 or nodD2 background, basal expression of the nodA-lacZ fusion increased two- to threefold. The level of expression of the nodD2-lacZ and nolA-lacZ fusions was low in the wild type but increased in nodD1, nodD2, and nodD1 nodD2 backgrounds independently of the addition of the inducer genistein. nolA was required for increased expression of the nodD2-lacZ fusion. These data suggest that a common factor is involved in the regulation of nodD2 and nolA, and they are also consistent with a model of nod gene expression in Bradyrhizobium (Arachis) sp. strain NC92 in which negative regulation is mediated by the products of the nodD1 and nodD2 genes.
Genetic changes in the development of endometrial carcinoma have not been characterized, and little is known of tumor or metastatic suppressor gene status in these malignancies. The current study on endometrioid carcinoma was undertaken to examine the status of two tumor suppressor genes that frequently have been found to be altered in human malignancies (the p53 gene and the retinoblastoma [Rb] gene) and to examine the status of the candidate metastatic suppressor gene, nm23-H1. The status of the p53 gene was studied by immunohistochemistry of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded biopsy samples from 72 patients with atypical endometrial hyperplasia or endometrioid carcinoma who underwent hysterectomy immediately after biopsy and from 5 patients with benign endometria. A search for loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the nm23 gene after DNA extraction from frozen tissues and hybridization with nm23-H1 cDNA specific probe was made in 10 endometrial carcinomas. Rb gene status was evaluated by image analysis quantification of immunoreactive retinoblastoma protein in frozen sections of 10 carcinomas and 2 benign endometria. p53 expression was low in all benign endometria, but high expression was found in 2 (15%) of 13 atypical hyperplasias and in 23 (39%) of 59 carcinomas. High levels of p53 expression in endometrioid carcinoma correlated with the spread of disease outside of the uterus and by logistic regression, the presence of squamous differentiation, nuclear grade, and high p53 expression in the biopsy all independently correlated with spread of disease outside of the uterus. Although 7 of the 10 carcinomas studied were informative, LOH for the nm23 gene was not seen in any, including a site of metastasis. Rb protein expression in endometrial carcinoma was similar to expression in benign endometria. Although this study found no evidence of nm23-H1 gene alteration or alterations in Rb protein levels in endometrial carcinoma, high expression of p53 protein was sporadically identified in biopsy specimens of atypical hyperplasia and frequently found in endometrioid carcinomas. Determination of p53 expression in combination with the presence or absence of squamous differentiation and nuclear grade in biopsy material may help predict spread of endometrioid carcinoma outside the uterus and facilitate therapeutic planning before hysterectomy.
We report the nucleotide sequence of the rpoN gene from broad-host-range Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 and analyze the encoded RPON protein, a sigma factor. Comparative analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence of RPON from NGR234 with sequences from other gram-negative bacteria identified a perfectly conserved RPON box unique to RPON sigma factors. Symbiotic regulatory phenotypes were defined for a site-directed internal deletion within the coding sequence of the rpoN gene of Rhizobium strain NGR234: they included quantitative nodulation kinetics on Vigna unguiculata and microscopic analysis of the Fix- determinate nodules of V. unguiculata and Macroptilium atropurpureum. RPON was a primary coregulator of nodulation and was implicated in establishment or maintenance of the plant-synthesized peribacteroid membrane. Phenotypes of rpoN in Rhizobium strain NGR234 could be grouped as symbiosis related, rather than simply pleiotropically physiological as in free-living bacteria such as Klebsiella pneumoniae and Pseudomonas putida.
Bradyrhizobium japonicum is the root nodule endosymbiont of soybean (Glycine max), mung bean (Vigna radiata), cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), and Siratro (Macroptilium atropurpureum). We report the characteristics of a nodulation-gene region of B. japonicum that contributes only marginally to the bacterium's ability to nodulate soybean but is essential for the nodulation of the three alternative hosts. This DNA region consists of two open reading frames designated nodV and nodW. The predicted amino acid sequences of the NodV and NodW proteins suggest that they are members of the family of two-component regulatory systems, which supports the hypothesis that NodV responds to an environmental stimulus and, after signal transduction, NodW may be required to positively regulate the transcription of one or several unknown genes involved in the nodulation process. It seems likely that all host plants produce the necessary signal, whereas host specificity may be brought about by the product(s) of the gene(s) activated by NodW.
The TCP gene family encodes plant-specific transcription factors that regulate plant growth, development, and stress responses. Although this gene family has been widely studied in various species, its function in mung bean (
In this study, the A total of 11,433 and 12,063 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified at CK (Control, non-inoculated) versus T24 h (24 hpi) and CK versus T4 d (4 dpi), respectively. Plant hormone signal transduction pathways exhibited the highest number of DEGs at 24 hpi, while plant-pathogen interaction pathways were dominant at 4 dpi. Key genes in these pathways include PR-1 (Pathogenesis-Related protein 1), PPR (Pentatricopeptide Repeat protein), and F-box (F-box Kelch-repeat protein). Additionally, the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway, which is involved in lignin and flavonoid synthesis, plays a crucial role in disease resistance. Important genes involved in this pathway, such as PAL, C4H, 4CL, CHS, and CHI, were found to be significantly enriched. Furthermore, the WRKY transcription factor family was identified as a key regulator of multiple metabolic pathways related to disease resistance. The findings provide a comprehensive understanding of the key molecular factors involved in alfalfa's response to
Mungbean ( Here, we screened six genotypes with consistently high and low content of major secondary metabolites (gallic acid, chlorogenic acid, neo-chlorogenic acid, genistin, formononetin, catechin, syringic acid, and resveratrol) across environmental replicates. Transcriptome data obtained from the individual genotypes were pooled into two groups: high and low levels of secondary metabolites. Of the 200 differentially expressed genes identified using stringent criteria, 23 were annotated in the secondary metabolite pathway. By combining the results of the secondary metabolite and transcriptome data, we identified six key genes encoding four enzymes ( These results provide information on the common genetic factors involved in the production of secondary metabolites, which can improve the nutritional value of mungbeans and contribute to the development of elite mungbean cultivars.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) rust, caused by the fungus Uromyces vignae, is an important disease affecting adzuki bean yield and quality. Previously, several NAC transcription factors (TFs) were induced by rust infection in a resistant adzuki bean variety, suggesting that NAC TF members may play important roles in rust resistance. To further explore the functions of NAC TFs in rust resistance and to provide a reference for resistant varietal breeding, 101 NAC TFs were identified from the adzuki bean genome. The synteny analysis revealed 25 pairs of VaNACs in the genome, which exhibited whole-genome/segmental duplication. Based on the phylogenetic relationships and conserved motif characteristics, the NAC TFs of V. angularis can be divided into 16 subfamilies. Previous transcriptome data showed that nine VaNACs are significantly induced by rust infection. Here, a cis-acting element analysis of these nine genes revealed that most contain hormone responsive elements, such as abscisic acid and methyl jasmonate (MeJA). The expression levels of these nine VaNACs were dynamically regulated in response to exogenous MeJA treatment, as revealed by quantitative real-time PCR analysis. Among them, seven VaNACs exhibited significantly upregulated expression, peaking at 12 h post treatment (hpt) and remaining significantly higher than that of the untreated control group for 48 hpt. These results suggest that these VaNACs are responsive to MeJA signaling and may play roles in the early and sustained transcriptional regulation of stress-related pathways. The exogenous MeJA decreased rust severity on adzuki bean leaves by 45.68%. Additionally, the expression levels of these nine genes in adzuki bean leaves in response to rust infection after pretreatment with MeJA were investigated. The expression of VaNAC002 rapidly peaked at 24 h post inoculation (hpi) and remained significantly higher than the control from 120 to 192 hpi. Subsequently, transient overexpression of VaNAC002 significantly enhanced the resistance of tobacco to Botrytis cinerea, indicating that VaNAC002 positively regulates plant disease resistance. These findings suggest that adzuki bean NAC family members may play important roles in disease resistance through JA signaling, with VaNAC002 having a positive regulatory role in plant immunity.
To investigate the mechanism of pod dehiscence in adzuki bean, RNA sequencing was utilized to analyze transcriptomes in the ventral and dorsal sutures of pods from two dehiscence-resistant accessions and two dehiscence-susceptible accessions. A total of 943 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. Through the Gene Ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) metabolic enrichment pathways, 34 genes related to pod dehiscence were identified. The genes associated with pod dehiscence primarily encode enzymes involved in cell wall modification, including pectin esterase, cellulose synthase, glucosyltransferase, glycoside hydrolase, D-galactosidase, peroxidases, and transcription factors from the MADS-box gene family. The genes exhibit significant enrichment in pathways such as "Pentose and glucuronate interconversions," "Galactose metabolism," "Fructose and mannose metabolism," "Starch and sucrose metabolism," and "Biosynthesis of secondary metabolites." These components primarily play a role in modifying the cell wall, regulating the biochemistry of cells in the dehiscence zone of the pod, and influencing the physiological and metabolic processes of the ventral and dorsal sutures of the pod. This study examined transcript level variations between adzuki bean varieties resistant and susceptible to pod dehiscence, specifically focusing on the ventral and dorsal sutures. The findings offer novel perspectives for elucidating the pod dehiscence regulatory network in adzuki bean and provide valuable genetic resources to guide pod dehiscence-resistant breeding in adzuki bean. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-025-04255-z.
Several mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) cultivars are susceptible to Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by Cercospora canescens Ellis & Martin, and it is necessary to explore resistance sources and understand resistance mechanisms. However, the CLS resistance mechanisms have not yet been explored. The response to CLS revealed significantly different disease severity scores in both mungbean genotypes. Hypersensitive response (HR) started to appear at 2 days after inoculation (DAI) in SUPER5 but was never observed in CN84-1. SUPER5 exhibited fewer and smaller lesions than CN84-1 during CLS infection, resulting in SUPER5 being resistant while CN84-1 was susceptible to CLS. In this study, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis was used to unravel the mechanisms of resistance to CLS in a resistant line (SUPER5) and a susceptible variety (CN84-1) upon CLS infection. A total of 9510 DEGs including 4615 up-regulated and 4895 down-regulated genes were revealed. Of these 3242 and 1027 genes were uniquely up-regulated only in the SUPER5 and CN84-1, respectively, while 2902 and 734 genes were down-regulated only in SUPER5 and CN84-1, respectively. The 843 DEGs were enriched in biological processes mainly associated with plant defense responses, defense response to fungus, protein phosphorylation and response to chitin in Gene Ontology (GO) terms analysis. KEGG pathway analysis showed that these genes were represented in plant-pathogen interaction, the MAPK signaling pathway, plant hormone signal transduction, and cell wall component biosynthesis in response to the CLS infection specifically in SUPER5. In addition, the qRT-PCR was used to analyze the expression pattern of 22 candidate DEGs belonging to pathogenesis related (PR) proteins, resistance (R) proteins, transcription factors, hypersensitive response (HR), and the essential genes involved in cell wall activity during CLS-infected V. radiata. It was found that the expression of these genes was consistent with the RNA-seq analysis, showing a highly significant correlation with a coefficient of 0.7163 (p < 0.01). The co-expression network illustrated the interactions among these genes, which were involved in multiple functions related to the defense response. Interestingly, the ones encoding PR-2, thaumatin, peroxidase, defensin, RPM1, pectinesterase, chalcone synthase, auxin efflux carrier, and transcription factors (Pti1, Pti5, Pti6 and WRKY40) were highly significantly up-regulated in SUPER5 but not in CN84-1 upon CLS infection, suggesting that they might be involved in the CLS resistance mechanisms. Moreover, SUPER5 was found to have higher β-1,3-glucanase and chitinase activity levels than CN84-1. Our findings contribute to an understanding of the CLS resistance mechanisms and may advocate the development of more effective disease management approaches.
Rice bean is an underutilized legume crop cultivated in Asia, and it is a good source of protein, minerals, and essential fatty acids for human consumption. Moreover, the leaves left over after harvesting rice bean seeds contain various biological constituents beneficial to humans and animals. In our study, we performed a de-novo transcriptome assembly of rice bean, characterized the WRKY transcription factors, and studied their response to aluminum stress. A total of 46.6 million clean reads, with a GC value of 43%, were generated via transcriptome sequencing. De novo assembly of the clean reads resulted in 90,933 transcripts and 74,926 unigenes, with minimum and maximum lengths of 301 bp and 24,052 bp, and N50 values of 1801 bp and 1710 bp, respectively. A total of 27,095 and 28,378 unigenes were annotated and subjected to GO and KEGG analyses. Among the unigenes, 15,593, 20,770, and 15,385 unigenes were identified in the domains of biological process, molecular function, and cellular component, respectively. A total of 16,132 unigenes were assigned to 188 pathways, including metabolic pathways (5500) and secondary metabolite biosynthesis (2858). Transcription factor analysis revealed 4860 unigenes from 98 different transcription factor families. For WRKY, a total of 95 unigenes were identified. Further analysis revealed the diverse response of WRKY transcription factors to aluminum stress. Collectively, the results of this study boost genomic resources and provide a baseline for further research on the role of WRKY transcription factors in aluminum tolerance in rice bean.
Plants activate induced defenses through the recognition of molecular patterns. Like pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), herbivore-associated molecular patterns (HAMPs) can be recognized by cell surface pattern recognition receptors leading to defensive transcriptional changes in host plants. Herbivore-induced defensive outputs are regulated by the circadian clock, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. To investigate how the plant circadian clock regulates transcriptional reprogramming of a specific HAMP-induced pathway, we characterized the daytime and nighttime transcriptional response to caterpillar-derived In11 peptide, in the legume crop cowpea (
Calmodulin-binding transcription activator (CAMTA) is comprised of a group of transcription factors and plays an important role in the Ca Eight paralogous VrCAMTA genes were identified and found to be distributed on five of the 11 chromosomes. The proteins possessed CG-1 DNA-binding domains with bipartite NLS signals, ankyrin domains, CaM-binding IQ motifs, and CaM-binding domain (CaMBD). The 2 kb upstream regions of VrCAMTA genes contained sequence motifs of abscisic acid-responsive elements (ABRE) and ethylene-responsive elements (ERE), and binding sites for transcription factors of the bZIP and bHLH domains. Analysis of RNA-seq data from a public repository revealed ubiquitous expression of the VrCAMTA genes, as VrCAMTA1 was expressed at the highest level in seedling leaves, whereas VrCAMTA8 was expressed at the lowest level, which agreed with the RT-qPCR analysis performed on the first true leaves. On day four after leaf emergence, all VrCAMTA genes were upregulated, with VrCAMTA1 exhibiting the highest degree of upregulation. In darkness on day 4, upregulation was not observed in most VrCAMTA genes, except VrCAMTA7, for which a low degree of upregulation was found, whereas no difference was found in VrCAMTA8 expression between light and dark conditions. Treatment with calcium ionophores enhanced VrCAMTA expression under light and/or dark conditions at different times after leaf emergence, suggesting that calcium signaling is involved in the light-induced upregulation of VrCAMTA gene expression. The expression dependence of nearly all VrCAMTA genes on light and calcium signaling suggests their possible differential but likely complementary roles during the early stages of mung bean growth and development.
The TATA-box binding protein (TBP) and TBP-associated factors (TAFs) constitute the transcription factor IID (TFIID), a crucial component of RNA polymerase II, essential for transcription initiation and regulation. Several TFIID subunits are shared with the Spt-Ada-Gcn5-acetyltransferase (SAGA) coactivator complex. Recent research has revealed the roles of TBP and TAFs in organogenesis and stress adaptation. In this study, we identified 1 TBP and 21 putative TAFs in the mungbean genome, among which
In plants, WRKY transcription factors play a crucial role in plant growth, development, and response to abiotic and biotic stress. Cowpea (
The adzuki bean is a typical short-day plant and an important grain crop that is widely used due to its high nutritional and medicinal value. The adzuki bean flowering time is affected by multiple environmental factors, particularly the photoperiod. Adjusting the day length can induce flower synchronization in adzuki bean and accelerate the breeding process. In this study, we used RNA sequencing analysis to determine the effects of different day lengths on gene expression and metabolic characteristics related to adzuki bean flowering time. 'Tangshan hong xiao dou' was used as the experimental material in this study and field experiments were conducted in 2022 using a randomized block design with three treatments: short-day induction periods of 5 d (SD-5d), 10 d (SD-10d), and 15 d (SD-15d). A total of 5,939 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, of which 38.09% were up-regulated and 23.81% were down-regulated. Gene ontology enrichment analysis was performed on the target genes to identify common functions related to photosystems I and II. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis identified two pathways involved in the antenna protein and circadian rhythm. Furthermore, florescence was promoted by down-regulating genes in the circadian rhythm pathway through the blue light metabolic pathway; whereas, antenna proteins promoted flowering by enhancing the reception of light signals and accelerating electron transport. In these two metabolic pathways, the number of DEGs was the greatest between the SD-5d VS SD-15d groups. Real-time reverse transcription‒quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis results of eight DEGs were consistent with the sequencing results. Thus, the sequencing results were accurate and reliable and eight genes were identified as candidates for the regulation of short-day induction at the adzuki bean seedling stage. Short-day induction was able to down-regulate the expression of genes related to flowering according to the circadian rhythm and up-regulate the expression of certain genes in the antenna protein pathway. The results provide a theoretical reference for the molecular mechanism of short-day induction and multi-level information for future functional studies to verify the key genes regulating adzuki bean flowering.
Cowpea wilt is a harmful disease caused by Fusarium oxysporum, leading to substantial losses in cowpea production. Melatonin reportedly regulates plant immunity to pathogens; however the specific regulatory mechanism underlying the protective effect of melatonin pretreated of cowpea against Fusarium oxysporum remains known. Accordingly, the study sought to evaluate changes in the physiological and biochemical indices of cowpea following melatonin treated to facilitate Fusarium oxysporum resistance and elucidate the associated molecular mechanism using a weighted gene coexpression network. Treatment with 100 µM melatonin was effective in increasing cowpea resistance to Fusarium oxysporum. Glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX), catalase (CAT), and salicylic acid (SA) levels were significantly upregulated, and hydrogen peroxide (H The study elucidated changes in the expression of genes associated with the response of cowpea to Fusarium oxysporum under melatonin treated. Specifically, multiple defence mechanisms were initiated to improve cowpea resistance to Fusarium oxysporum.
Drought stress has become an important limiting factor in mung bean production, and NAC(NAM/ATAF/CUC) transcription factors are crucial for plant growth under stress conditions, so it is important to study the regulatory role of NAC transcription factors in mung bean under drought stress. In this investigation, VrNAC15, along with its promoter, was cloned, and its structure was meticulously analyzed. Using qPCR, we examined the tissue-specific expression patterns of VrNAC15, particularly under drought stress and ABA exposure. Additionally, We performed ectopic expression of VrNAC15 in Arabidopsis to assess its function.. Gene sequence analysis revealed that VrNAC15 has a total length of 1014 bp, encoding 337 amino acids. It contains a NAM domain, localizes within the nucleus, and exhibits transcriptional activation. Promoter analysis of VrNAC15 identified essential core promoter elements and cis-acting elements related to abscisic acid, methyl jasmonate, gibberellin, adversity stress, light, and metabolism. Expression analysis demonstrated the concentration of VrNAC15 in leaves, with significant alterations following ABA and drought treatments in mung beans. Cluster analysis revealed that VrNAC15 may enhanced drought tolerance in transgenic plants through its expression. Transgenic experiments supported these findings, showing that heterologous expression of VrNAC15 led to enhanced antioxidant and osmotic adjustment capabilities in Arabidopsis plants. This resulted in the maintenance of cell membrane structural integrity during drought stress and normal physiological and biochemical metabolic reactions within cells. This research provides valuable insights into the structural and functional characteristics of the VrNAC15, setting the stage for future endeavors in molecular breeding for improved drought resistance in mung beans.
TCP transcription factors are known to regulate abiotic stress condition, but their role in The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-024-03976-x.
The SPL gene family (for Squamosa Promoter-binding like Proteins) represents specific transcription factors that have significant roles in abiotic stress tolerance, development and the growth processes of different plants, including initiation of the leaf, branching and development of shoot and fruits. The SPL gene family has been studied in different plant species; however, its role is not yet fully explored in pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan ). In the present study, 11 members of the CcSPL gene family were identified in C. cajan . The identified SPLs were classified into nine groups based on a phylogenetic analysis involving SPL protein sequences from C. cajan , Arabidopsis thaliana , Cicer arietinum , Glycine max , Phaseolus vulgaris , Vigna unguiculata and Arachis hypogaea . Further, the identification of gene structure, motif analysis, domain analysis and presence of cis -regulatory elements in the SPL family members were studied. Based on RNA-sequencing data, gene expression analysis was performed, revealing that CcSPL2.1, 3 and 13A were significantly upregulated for salt-tolerance and CcSPL14 and 15 were upregulated in a salt-susceptible cultivar. Real-time qPCR validation indicated that CcSPL3, 4, 6 and 13A were upregulated under salt stress conditions. Therefore, molecular docking was performed against the proteins of two highly expressed genes (CcSPL3 and CcSPL14 ) with three ligands: abscisic acid, gibberellic acid and indole-3-acetic acid. Afterward, their binding affinity was obtained and three-dimensional structures were predicted. In the future, our study may open avenues for harnessing CcSPL genes in pigeon pea for enhanced abiotic stress resistance and developmental traits.
In different regions of the world, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is an important vegetable and an excellent source of protein. It lessens the malnutrition of the underprivileged in developing nations and has some positive effects on health, such as a reduction in the prevalence of cancer and cardiovascular disease. However, occasionally, certain biotic and abiotic stresses caused a sharp fall in cowpea yield. Major RNA interference (RNAi) genes like Dicer-like (DCL), Argonaute (AGO), and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR) are essential for the synthesis of their associated factors like domain, small RNAs (sRNAs), transcription factors, micro-RNAs, and
Black mung bean is rich in anthocyanin, however, the accumulation and the molecular mechanism of anthocyanin synthesis in black mung bean are unclear. In this study, anthocyanin metabolomics and transcriptomics on the seed coats of two different colors of mung bean were performed to clarify the composition of anthocyanins, and identify transcription factors involved in regulating anthocyanin biosynthesis. In the mature stage, 23 kinds of anthocyanin compounds were identified. All anthocyanin components contents were significantly higher in seed coat of black mung bean compare with green mung bean. Transcriptome analysis suggested that most of the structural genes for anthocyanin biosynthesis and some potential regulatory genes were significantly differentially expressed. WGCNA suggested VrMYB90 was an important regulatory gene in anthocyanin biosynthesis. Arabidopsis thaliana overexpressing VrMYB90 showed significant accumulation of anthocyanins. PAL, 4CL, DFR, F3'5'H, LDOX, F3'H and UFGT were up-regulated in 35S:VrMYB90 Arabidopsis thaliana. These findings provide valuable information for understanding the synthesis mechanism of anthocyanins in black mung bean seed coats.
Vigna mungo, a highly consumed crop in the pan-Asian countries, is vulnerable to several biotic and abiotic stresses. Understanding the post-transcriptional gene regulatory cascades, especially alternative splicing (AS), may underpin large-scale genetic improvements to develop stress-resilient varieties. Herein, a transcriptome based approach was undertaken to decipher the genome-wide AS landscape and splicing dynamics in order to establish the intricacies of their functional interactions in various tissues and stresses. RNA sequencing followed by high-throughput computational analyses identified 54,526 AS events involving 15,506 AS genes that generated 57,405 transcripts isoforms. Enrichment analysis revealed their involvement in diverse regulatory functions and demonstrated that transcription factors are splicing-intensive, splice variants of which are expressed differentially across tissues and environmental cues. Increased expression of a splicing regulator NHP2L1/SNU13 was found to co-occur with lower intron retention events. The host transcriptome is significantly impacted by differential isoform expression of 1172 and 765 AS genes that resulted in 1227 (46.8% up and 53.2% downregulated) and 831 (47.5% up and 52.5% downregulated) transcript isoforms under viral pathogenesis and Fe
Pod dehiscence is a major source of yield loss in legumes, which is exacerbated by aridity. Disruptive mutations in "Pod indehiscent 1" (PDH1), a pod sclerenchyma-specific lignin biosynthesis gene, has been linked to significant reductions in dehiscence in several legume species. We compared syntenic PDH1 regions across 12 legumes and two outgroups to uncover key historical evolutionary trends at this important locus. Our results clarified the extent to which PDH1 orthologs are present in legumes, showing the typical genomic context surrounding PDH1 has only arisen relatively recently in certain phaseoloid species (Vigna, Phaseolus, Glycine). The notable absence of PDH1 in Cajanus cajan may be a major contributor to its indehiscent phenotype compared with other phaseoloids. In addition, we identified a novel PDH1 ortholog in Vigna angularis and detected remarkable increases in PDH1 transcript abundance during Vigna unguiculata pod development. Investigation of the shared genomic context of PDH1 revealed it lies in a hotspot of transcription factors and signaling gene families that respond to abscisic acid and drought stress, which we hypothesize may be an additional factor influencing expression of PDH1 under specific environmental conditions. Our findings provide key insights into the evolutionary history of PDH1 and lay the foundation for optimizing the pod dehiscence role of PDH1 in major and understudied legume species.
WRKY-, PHD-, and MYB-like proteins are three important types of transcription factors in mungbeans, and play an important role in development and stress resistance. The genes' structures and characteristics were clearly reported and were shown to contain the conservative WRKYGQK heptapeptide sequence, Cys4-His-cys3 zinc binding motif, and HTH (helix) tryptophan cluster W structure, respectively. Knowledge on the response of these genes to salt stress is largely unknown. To address this issue, 83 VrWRKYs, 47 VrPHDs, and 149 VrMYBs were identified by using comparative genomics, transcriptomics, and molecular biology methods in mungbeans. An intraspecific synteny analysis revealed that the three gene families had strong co-linearity and an interspecies synteny analysis showed that mungbean and
The important factors in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders include oxidative stress and neuron-glia system inflammation. Vignae Radiatae Semen (VRS) exhibits antihypertensive, anticancer, anti-melanogenesis, hepatoprotective, and immunomodulatory properties. However, the neuroprotective effects and anti-neuroinflammatory activities of VRS ethanol extract (VRSE) remained unknown. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory activities of VRSE against hydrogen peroxide (H
Mung bean is an important grain-legume crop and its sprout is an economical and nutrient vegetable for the public, but the genetic regulation of anthocyanin production, which is an antioxidant in mung bean, remains elusive. In our study, we characterized a subgroup (SG) 6 R2R3-MYB anthocyanin activator VrMYB90 and a SG 4 R2R3-MYB anthocyanin repressor VrMYB3, which synergistically function in regulating anthocyanin synthesis with VrbHLHA transcription factor. The overexpressed VrMYB90 protein activates the expression of VrMYB3 and VrbHLHA in mung bean hair roots, and also promotes VrDFR and VrANS transcript levels by directly binding to the corresponding promoters at specific motifs (CAACTG and CCGTTG). VrMYB90 interacts with VrbHLHA to enhance its regulatory activities on VrDFR and VrANS. Furthermore, the interaction between VrMYB3 with VrMYB90 and VrbHLHA could result in the restriction of anthocyanin synthesis to prevent excessive anthocyanin accumulation. Our results demonstrate that the VrMYB90 protein, in conjunction with VrMYB3 and VrbHLHA, forms a key regulatory module to fine-tune anthocyanin synthesis in mung bean.
Cowpea is sensitive to drought and heat stress, particularly at the reproductive stages of development. Both stresses limit growth and yield, and their effect is more devastating when occurring concurrently. Dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2A (DREB2A) is an important signaling hub integrating information about two different abiotic stresses, drought and heat. We identified VuDREB2A as a canonical DREB ortholog in cowpea, activating downstream stress-responsive genes by binding to DREs in their promoter. Post-translational modification of a negative regulatory domain (NRD) within the VuDREB2A protein prevents its degradation. Targeted deletion of the NRD produces a stable and constitutively active form VuDREB2A-CA. However, there is very little evidence of its practical utility under field conditions. This study overexpressed the VuDREB2A-CA in a popular cowpea variety and conducted drought- and heat-tolerance experiments across various stress regimes. Transgenic cowpea exhibited significant tolerance with consistently higher yield when exposed to over 30-d drought stress and 3-d exposure to high temperature (28 °C-52 °C) without any pleiotropic alterations. The transgenic lines showed higher photosynthetic efficiency, osmotic adjustment, antioxidant defense, thermotolerance, and significantly higher survival and increased biomass than the wild type. Late embryogenesis abundant 5, heat shock protein 70, dehydrin, mitogen-activated protein kinase 2/4, isoflavonoid reductase, and myoinositol phosphate synthase were upregulated in transgenic lines under drought and heat stress. Through transcriptome analysis of the transgenic lines, we found significant up-regulation of various stress-responsive cowpea genes, having DRE in their promoter. Our results suggest that overexpression of VuDREB2A could improve cowpea production under drought and high temperatures.
To advance the understanding of adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) resistance to infection with the rust-causing fungus Uromyces vignae (Uv), we comprehensively analyzed histological events and the transcriptome of Uv-infected adzuki bean. Compared with the susceptible cv. Baoqinghong (BQH), the resistant cv. QH1 showed inhibition of uredospore germination and substomatal vesicle development, intense autofluorescence of cells around the infection site, and cell wall deposit formation in response to Uv infection. In cv. QH1, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) showed enrichment of chitin catabolic processes and responses to biotic stimuli at 24 h post-inoculation (hpi) and cell wall modification and structural constituent of cytoskeleton at 48 hpi. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis indicated enrichment of WRKY transcription factors (TFs), the calcium binding protein cml, and hydroquinone glucosyltransferase at both 24 and 48 hpi. In total, 1992 and 557 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified at 24 and 48 hpi, respectively. Cell surface pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs), WRKY TFs, defense-associated pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins, and lignin and antimicrobial phenolic compound biosynthesis were significantly induced. Finally, we detected the chitinase (CHI) and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) activity were higher in QH1 and increased much earlier than in BQH. In cv. QH1, cell-surface PRRs rapidly recognize Uv invasion and activate the corresponding TFs to increase the transcription of defense-related genes and corresponding enzymatic activities to prevent fungal development and spread in host tissues.
NAC (NAM/ATAF1/2/CUC2) transcription factors are central switches of growth and stress responses in plants. However, unpredictable interspecies conservation of function and regulatory targets makes the well-studied NAC orthologs inapt for pulse engineering. The knowledge of suitable NAC candidates in hardy pulses like cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is still in infancy, hence warrants immediate biotechnological intervention. Here, we showed that overexpression of two native NAC genes (VuNAC1 and VuNAC2) promoted germinative, vegetative, and reproductive growth and conferred multiple abiotic stress tolerance in a commercial cowpea variety. The transgenic lines displayed increased leaf area, thicker stem, nodule-rich denser root system, early flowering, higher pod production (∼3.2-fold and ∼2.1-fold), and greater seed weight (10.3% and 6.0%). In contrast, transient suppression of VuNAC1/2 caused severe growth retardation and flower inhibition. The overexpressor lines showed remarkable tolerance to major yield-declining terminal stresses, such as drought, salinity, heat, and cold, and recovered growth and seed production by boosting photosynthetic activity, water use efficiency, membrane integrity, Na
Mung bean is a short-duration and essential food crop owing to its cash prominence in Asia. Mung bean seeds are rich in protein, fiber, antioxidants, and phytonutrients. The NAC transcription factors (TFs) family is a large plant-specific family, participating in tissue development regulation and abiotic and biotic stresses. In this study, we perform genome-wide comparisons of VrNAC with their homologs from Arabidopsis. We identified 81 NAC transcription factors (TFs) in mung bean genome and named as per their chromosome location. A phylogenetic analysis revealed that VrNACs are broadly distributed in nine groups. Moreover, we identified 20 conserved motifs across the VrNACs highlighting their roles in different biological process. Based on the gene structure of the putative VrNAC and segmental duplication events might be playing a vital role in the expansion of mung bean genome. A comparative phylogenetic analysis of mung bean NAC together with homologs from Arabidopsis allowed us to classify NAC genes into 13 groups, each containing several orthologs and paralogs. Gene ontology (GO) analysis categorized the VrNACs into biological process, cellular components and molecular functions, explaining the functions in different plant physiology processes. A gene co-expression network analysis identified 173 genes involved in the transcriptional network of putative VrNAC genes. We also investigated how miRNAs potentially target VrNACs and shape their interactions with proteins. VrNAC1.4 (Vradi01g03390.1) was targeted by the Vra-miR165 family, including 9 miRNAs. Vra-miR165 contributes to leaf development and drought tolerance. We also performed qRT-PCR on 22 randomly selected VrNAC genes to assess their expression patterns in the NM-98 genotype, widely known for being tolerant to drought and bacterial leaf spot disease. This genome-wide investigation of VrNACs provides a unique resource for further detailed investigations aimed at predicting orthologs functions and what role the play under abiotic and biotic stress, with the ultimate aim to improve mung bean production under diverse environmental conditions.
To add value to food waste and seek skin aging suppressor, petroleum ether, ethyl acetate, n-butanol and water phenolic extracts were produced from mung bean hulls subjected to ultrasound-assisted ethanolic extraction. The four extracts all contained protocatechuic acid, isovitexin, vitexin, caffeic acid, 4-coumaric acid, ferulic acid, rutin and chlorogenic acid (revealed by UHPLC-MS/MS). The effects of the four extracts and their main phenolic compounds against H
Mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek) is an important legume crop of Asia. Salt concentrations typically causes major yield reductions in mungbean. Although the biochemical and genetic basis of salt tolerance-related gene are well studied in Arabidopsis and soybean, limited information concerning the salt tolerance-related genes in mungbean. To address this issue, we mined salt tolerance related genes using the survival rate trait and 160,1405 SNPs in 112 mungbean accessions. As a result, VrFRO8 significantly associated with salt-stress were identified in the GWAS analysis. The candidate gene VrFRO8 was evidenced by comparative genomics, transcriptome and RT-qPCR analysis. The expression level of VrFRO8 was significantly up-regulated (P-value = 0.001) after salt treatment compared with the control group. Moreover, 188 genes and 158 transcription factors related to salt-stress signal transduction pathway were mined, and 18 genes (18/188) had higher expression level in the salt-tolerant varieties than salt-sensitive varieties. And, the function of VrFRO8 was predicted in mungbean, the protein interaction between VrFRO8 and seven related-genes were found by molecular structure analysis. VrFRO8 might reduce SOD contents by influence Fe
ATAF-like NAC transcription factors are bonafide regulators of stress-signaling. However, their overexpression often exerts growth-retardation by activating ABA-hypersensitivity, chloroplast-degradation, or carbon-starvation. To improve tolerance to multiple stress complying with growth sustainability, we examined two ATAF orthologs, VuNAC1 and VuNAC2, isolated from a drought-hardy cowpea genotype, for a harmonized regulation of stress and growth signaling. The genes were induced by dehydration, NaCl, polyethylene glycol, heat, cold, ABA, and light. Analysis of the promoter-elements and regulatory network corroborated the integration of circadian, hormonal, stress, developmental, and nutrition signals, being VuNAC1/2 the central transcriptional-switch interfacing growth and stress responses. The constitutive gene overexpression in Arabidopsis resulted in an improved embryonic, rosette, and inflorescence growth, under optimum as well as limiting nutrition, in association with increased photosynthetic activity and stomatal-density. The transgenic seedlings manifested tolerance to dehydration, salinity, aluminum, cadmium, and H
The underutilized species Vigna aconitifolia (Moth Bean) is an important legume crop cultivated in semi-arid conditions and is valued for its seeds for their high protein content. It is also a popular green manure cover crop that offers many agronomic benefits including nitrogen fixation and soil nutrients. Despite its economic potential, genomic resources for this crop are scarce and there is limited knowledge on the developmental process of this plant at a molecular level. In the present communication, we have studied the molecular mechanisms that regulate plant development in V. aconitifolia, with a special focus on flower and seed development. We believe that this study will greatly enrich the genomic resources for this plant in form of differentially expressed genes, transcription factors, and genic molecular markers. We have performed the de novo transcriptome assembly using six types of tissues from various developmental stages of Vigna aconitifolia (var. RMO-435), namely, leaves, roots, flowers, pods, and seed tissue in the early and late stages of development, using the Illumina NextSeq platform. We assembled the transcriptome to get 150938 unigenes with an average length of 937.78 bp. About 79.9% of these unigenes were annotated in public databases and 12839 of those unigenes showed a significant match in the KEGG database. Most of the unigenes displayed significant differential expression in the late stages of seed development as compared with leaves. We annotated 74082 unigenes as transcription factors and identified 12096 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) in the genic regions of V.aconitifolia. Digital expression analysis revealed specific gene activities in different tissues which were validated using Real-time PCR analysis. The Vigna aconitifolia transcriptomic resources generated in this study provide foundational resources for gene discovery with respect to various developmental stages. This study provides the first comprehensive analysis revealing the genes involved in molecular as well as metabolic pathways that regulate seed development and may be responsible for the unique nutritive values of moth bean seeds. Hence, this study would serve as a foundation for characterization of candidate genes which would not only provide novel insights into understanding seed development but also provide resources for improved moth bean and related species genetic enhancement.
Global climate changes increase the frequency and intensity of heavy precipitation events, which result in flooding or soil waterlogging. One way to overcome these low-oxygen stresses is via modifying the plant root system to improve internal aeration. Here, we used a comparative RNA-seq based transcriptomic approach to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of waterlogging-triggered root plasticity in mungbean (
Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is one of the most tolerant legume crops to drought and salt stresses. WRKY transcription factor (TF) family members stand out among plant transcriptional regulators related to abiotic stress tolerance. However, little information is currently available on the expression of the cowpea WRKY gene family (VuWRKY) in response to water deficit. Thus, we analyzed genomic and transcriptomic data from cowpea to identify VuWRKY members and characterize their structure and transcriptional response under root dehydration stress. Ninety-two complete VuWRKY genes were found in the cowpea genome based on their domain characteristics. They were clustered into three groups: I (15 members), II (58), and III (16), while three genes were unclassified. Domain analysis of the encoded proteins identified four major variants of the conserved heptapeptide motif WRKYGQK. In silico analysis of VuWRKY gene promoters identified eight candidate binding motifs of cis-regulatory elements, regulated mainly by six TF families associated with abiotic stress responses. Ninety-seven VuWRKY modulated splicing variants associated with 55 VuWRKY genes were identified via RNA-Seq analysis available at the Cowpea Genomics Consortium (CpGC) database. qPCR analyses showed that 22 genes are induced under root dehydration, with VuWRKY18, 21, and 75 exhibiting the most significant induction levels. Given their central role in activating signal transduction cascades in abiotic stress response, the data provide a foundation for the targeted modification of specific VuWRKY family members to improve drought tolerance in this important climate-resilient legume in the developing world and beyond.
Early undernutrition has been found to be closely associated with subsequent neurodevelopment. However, studies examining crude growth in terms of body weight/tail length cannot clarify how diets might mediate associations between the gut microbiota and cognitive dysfunction. In the present study, Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were fed a 7% protein diet and mung bean protein diet (MBPD) for 6 weeks to assess central nervous system functions.
High salinity is a devastating abiotic stresses for crops. To understand the molecular basis of salinity stress in yardlong bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis), and to develop robust markers for improving this trait in germplasm, whole transcriptome RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was conducted to compare the salt-tolerant variety Suzi 41 and salt-sensitive variety Sujiang 1419 under normal and salt stress conditions. Compared with controls, 417 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified under exposure to high salinity, including 42 up- and 11 down-regulated DEGs in salt-tolerant Suzi 41 and 186 up- and 197 down-regulated genes in salt-sensitive Sujiang 1419, validated by qRT-PCR. DEGs were enriched in "Glycolysis/Gluconeogenesis" (ko00010), "Cutin, suberine and wax biosynthesis" (ko00073), and "phenylpropanoid biosynthesis" (ko00940) in Sujiang 1419, although "cysteine/methionine metabolism" (ko00270) was the only pathway significantly enriched in salt-tolerant Suzi 41. Notably, AP2/ERF, LR48, WRKY, and bHLH family transcription factors (TFs) were up-regulated under high salt conditions. Genetic diversity analysis of 84 yardlong bean accessions using 26 InDel markers developed here could distinguish salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive varieties. These findings show a limited set of DEGs, primarily TFs, respond to salinity stress in V. unguiculata, and that these InDels associated with salt-inducible loci are reliable for diversity analysis.
Yeast is a dominant host for recombinant production of heterologous proteins, high-value biochemical compounds, and microbial fermentation. During bioprocess operations, pH fluctuations, organic solvents, drying, starvation, osmotic pressure, and often a combination of these stresses cause growth inhibition or death, markedly limiting its industrial use. Thus, stress-tolerant yeast strains with balanced energy-bioenergetics are highly desirous for sustainable improvement of quality biotechnological production. We isolated two NAC transcription factors (TFs), VuNAC1 and VuNAC2, from a wild cowpea genotype, improving both stress tolerance and growth when expressed in yeast. The GFP-fused proteins were localized to the nucleus. Y2H and reporter assay demonstrated the dimerization and transactivation abilities of the VuNAC proteins having structural folds similar to rice SNAC1. The gel-shift assay indicated that the TFs recognize an "ATGCGTG" motif for DNA-binding shared by several native TFs in yeast. The heterologous expression of VuNAC1/2 in yeast improved growth, biomass, lifespan, fermentation efficiency, and altered cellular composition of biomolecules. The transgenic strains conferred tolerance to multiple stresses such as high salinity, osmotic stress, freezing, and aluminum toxicity. Analysis of the metabolome revealed reprogramming of major pathways synthesizing nucleotides, vitamin B complex, amino acids, antioxidants, flavonoids, and other energy currencies and cofactors. Consequently, the transcriptional tuning of stress signaling and biomolecule metabolism improved the survival of the transgenic strains during starvation and stress recovery. VuNAC1/2-based synthetic gene expression control may contribute to designing robust industrial yeast strains with value-added productivity.
The Teosinte branched 1/Cycloidea/Proliferating cell factor (TCP) transcription factors are potent growth and developmental regulators in plants, also responsive to various hormonal and environmental stimuli. In this study, we primarily focused on the functional role of TCP9, a nuclear-localised Class-I TCP transcription factor in a drought and heat-tolerant legume crop, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Under drought stress, a higher protein expression level of TCP9 was observed in the leaves of the drought-tolerant cowpea cultivar Pusa Komal as compared to the drought-sensitive cultivar TVu-7778. Further, overexpression of VuTCP9 resulted in reduced cell and stomata size, aperture length and width while cell and overall stomatal density in the 35S::VuTCP9 transgenic cowpea lines increased. Phenotypic alterations, such as reduced leaf size and vigour, altered seed coats displaying extension pattern similar to the 'Watson pattern' and delayed senescence were prominent in the transgenic lines. Under normal conditions, the gas exchange and fluorescence measurements indicated reduction in transpiration rate (E), stomatal conductance (g
The present work represents a pioneering effort, being the first to analyze genomic and transcriptomic data from
Increasing attention has been focused on plant-derived peptides because of their potential bioactivities. In this study, bioactive peptides were released from extruded adzuki bean protein by simulated gastrointestinal digestion. A peptide (KQS-1) sequenced as KQSESHFVDAQPEQQQR was separated and identified using ultrafiltration, pre-high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and ultraperformance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS). KQS-1 was shown to exert significant anti-inflammatory effects in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages by reducing the production of IL-1, IL-6, TNF-α, and MCP-1 to 38.31, 6.07, 43.96, and 41.74%, respectively. The involved signaling pathways were identified by transcriptome analysis. Overall, 5236 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. Gene ontology (GO) functions demonstrated that DEGs were significantly related to the NF-κB pathway. In conclusion, KQS-1 prevented the activation and expression of NF-κB/caspase-1 by upstream and downstream factors. These findings highlight the bioactivity of adzuki bean peptides.
Yellow Mosaic Disease (YMD) in mungbean [Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek] is one of the most damaging diseases in Asia. In the northern part of India, the YMD is caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV), while in southern India this is caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic Virus (MYMV). The molecular mechanism of YMD resistance in mungbean remains largely unknown. In this study, RNA-seq analysis was conducted between a resistant (PMR-1) and a susceptible (Pusa Vishal) mungbean genotype under infected and control conditions to understand the regulatory network operating between mungbean-YMV. Overall, 76.8 million raw reads could be generated in different treatment combinations, while mapping rate per library to the reference genome varied from 86.78% to 93.35%. The resistance to MYMIV showed a very complicated gene network, which begins with the production of general PAMPs (pathogen-associated molecular patterns), then activation of various signaling cascades like kinases, jasmonic acid (JA) and brassinosteroid (BR), and finally the expression of specific genes (like PR-proteins, virus resistance and R-gene proteins) leading to resistance response. The function of WRKY, NAC and MYB transcription factors in imparting the resistance against MYMIV could be established. The string analysis also revealed the role of proteins involved in kinase, viral movement and phytoene synthase activity in imparting YMD resistance. A set of novel stress-related EST-SSRs are also identified from the RNA-Seq data which may be used to find the linked genes/QTLs with the YMD resistance. Also, 11 defence-related transcripts could be validated through quantitative real-time PCR analysis. The identified gene networks have led to an insight about the defence mechanism operating against MYMIV infection in mungbean which will be of immense use to manage the YMD resistance in mungbean.
Black gram [Vigna mungo (L)] seeds are a rich source of digestible protein and dietary fibre, both for human and animal consumption. However, the quality and quantity of the Vigna seeds are severely affected by bruchid beetles during storage. Therefore, analyses of the expression of the bruchid induced transcript dynamics in black gram pods would be helpful to understand the underlying defense mechanism against bruchid oviposition. We used the RNAseq approach to survey the changes in transcript profile in the developing seeds of a moderately resistant cultivar IC-8219 against bruchid oviposition using a susceptible cultivar T-9 as a control. A total of 96,084,600 and 99,532,488 clean reads were generated from eight (4 each) samples of IC-8219 and T-9 cultivar, respectively. Based on the BLASTX search against the NR database, 32,584 CDSs were generated of which 31,817 CDSs were significantly similar to Vigna radiata, a close relative of Vigna mungo. The IC-8219 cultivar had 630 significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of which 304 and 326 genes up and down-regulated, respectively. However, in the T-9 cultivar, only 168 DEGs were identified of which 142 and 26 genes up and down-regulated, respectively. The expression analyses of 10 DEGs by qPCR confirmed the accuracy of the RNA-Seq data. Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway analyses helped us to better understand the role of these DEGs in oviposition mediated defense response of black gram. In both the cultivars, the most significant transcriptomic changes in response to the oviposition were related to the induction of defense response genes, transcription factors, secondary metabolites, enzyme inhibitors, and signal transduction pathways. It appears that the bruchid ovipositioning mediated defense response in black gram is induced by SA signaling pathways and defense genes such as defensin, genes for secondary metabolites, and enzyme inhibitors could be potential candidates for resistance to bruchids. We generated a transcript profile of immature black gram pods upon bruchid ovipositioning by de novo assembly and studied the underlying defense mechanism of a moderately resistant cultivar.
This work presents a robust analysis of the inositols (INSs) and raffinose family oligosaccharides (RFOs) pathways, using genomic and transcriptomic tools in cowpea under root dehydration. Nineteen (~70%) of the 26 scrutinized enzymes presented transcriptional up-regulation in at least one treatment time. The transcriptional orchestration allowed categorization of the analyzed enzymes as time-independent (those showing the same regulation throughout the assay) and time-dependent (those showing different transcriptional regulation over time). It is suggested that up-regulated time-independent enzymes (INSs: myo-inositol oxygenase, inositol-tetrakisphosphate 1-kinase 3, phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase 4-like, 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate 5-kinase, phosphoinositide phospholipase C, and non-specific phospholipase C; RFOs: α-galactosidase, invertase, and raffinose synthase) actively participate in the reorganization of cowpea molecular physiology under the applied stress. In turn, time-dependent enzymes, especially those up-regulated in some of the treatment times (INSs: inositol-pentakisphosphate 2-kinase, phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase, phosphatidylinositol synthase, multiple inositol polyphosphate phosphatase 1, methylmalonate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase, triosephosphate isomerase, myo-inositol-3-phosphate synthase, phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate 3-phosphatase and protein-tyrosine-phosphatase, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; RFOs: galactinol synthase) seem to participate in fine-tuning of the molecular physiology, helping the cowpea plants to acclimatize under dehydration stress. Not all loci encoding the studied enzymes were expressed during the assay; most of the expressed ones exhibited a variable transcriptional profile in the different treatment times. Genes of the INSs and RFOs pathways showed high orthology with analyzed Phaseoleae members, suggesting a relevant role within this legume group. Regarding the promoter regions of INSs and RFOs genes, some bona fide cis-regulatory elements were identified in association with seven transcription factor families (AP2-EFR, Dof-type, MADS-box, bZIP, CPP, ZF-HD, and GATA-type). Members of INSs and RFOs pathways potentially participate in other processes regulated by these proteins in cowpea.
This paper reports fine mapping of qCLS for resistance to Cercospora leaf spot disease in mungbean and identified LOC106765332encoding TATA-binding-protein-associated factor 5 (TAF5) as the candidate gene for the resistance Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by the fungus Cercospora canescens is an important disease of mungbean. A QTL mapping using mungbean F
The full-length single-molecular sequencing and short reads Illumina sequencing were combined to generate the transcripts of adzuki bean with high-quality. A total of 17,636 loci and 60,454 transcripts were detected in this study. To characterize the drought-responsive genes during seed germination in adzuki bean, two varieties, i.e., tolerant and sensitive to drought stress, were selected to conduct analysis of alternative splicing dynamics (AS) and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) by combining the newly assembled draft genome and public adzuki bean reference genome. AS analysis indicated that both the two varieties underwent a little more AS events under control conditions than under drought stress. Among the AS events, IR (intron retention) predominately accounted for 34.3%, whereas AD (alternative donor site) was the least frequent with 15.8%. Meanwhile, 562 long non-coding RNAs, 409 fusion genes and 1208 transcription factors were identified. Moreover, a total of 5,337 DEGs were identified in comparison of the two varieties with drought or control treatments. Notably, 82 DEGs were discovered in the two varieties under drought stress, which might be the candidate in regulation of seed germination to answer for different drought tolerance. The DEGs encoded proteins involved in primary or second metabolism, plant hormone signal transduction, transcript or translation processes, ubiquitin proteasome system, transcription factor, transporters, and so on. The results facilitate to increase the knowledge about the mechanism of drought tolerance during crop seed germination, and provide reference for the breeding of drought-tolerant adzuki bean.
The Ty1/copia-like retrotransposon ONSEN is conserved among Brassica species, as well as in beans, including adzuki bean (Vigna angularis (Willd.) Ohwi & Ohashi), which is one of the economically important crops in Japan. ONSEN has acquired a heat-responsive element that is recognized by plant heat stress defense factors, resulting in its transcription and the production of full-length extrachromosomal DNA under conditions with elevated temperatures. DNA methylation plays an important role in regulating the activation of this transposon in plants. Therefore, chemical inhibition of DNA methyltransferases has been utilized to study the effect of DNA methylation on transposon activation. To understand the effect of DNA methylation on ONSEN activation, Arabidopsis thaliana and adzuki bean seedlings were treated with zebularine, which is known to be an effective chemical demethylation agent. The results showed that ONSEN transcription levels were upregulated in zebularine-treated plants. Extrachromosomal DNA of ONSEN also accumulated in the treated plants.
Ethylene-response factor (ERF) proteins are members of a transcription factor family involved in plant growth and environmental stress responses, but the biological functions of ERF members in adzuki bean (Vigna angularis var. angularis) remain unknown. In addition, it is unclear whether these proteins have a role in regulating responses to abiotic stressors. Here, we identified 47 ERF genes by analyzing the adzuki bean genome. Whole-transcriptome analyses of plants under saline-alkaline stress suggested that the expression of 13 ERF genes was induced in response to saline-alkaline stress. Analysis of the cis-acting elements showed that the promoters of these saline-alkaline stress-inducible ERF genes contained LTRs, DREs, MYBs, ABREs, MYCs, CGTCA-, and TGACG-motifs, which are involved in abiotic stress responses. The expression of VaERF3 was induced by NaHCO
Meloidogyne incognita is a polyphagous plant-parasitic nematode that causes considerable yield loss in agricultural and horticultural crops. The management options available for M. incognita are extremely limited. Here we identified and characterised a M. incognita homolog of Caenorhabditis elegans sterol-binding protein (Mi-SBP-1), a transcriptional regulator of several lipogenesis pathway genes, and used RNA interference-mediated gene silencing to establish its utility as a target for the management of M. incognita. Mi-sbp-1 is predicted to be a helix-loop-helix domain containing DNA binding transcription factor, and is present in the M. incognita genome in three copies. The RNA-Seq analysis of Mi-sbp-1 silenced second stage juveniles confirmed the key role of this gene in lipogenesis regulation in M. incognita. In vitro and host-induced gene silencing of Mi-sbp-1 in M. incognita second stage juveniles resulted in loss of nematodes' ability to utilise the stored fat reserves, slower nematode development, and reduced parasitism on adzuki bean and tobacco plants. The multiplication factor for the Mi-sbp-1 silenced nematodes on adzuki bean plants was reduced by 51% compared with the control nematodes in which Mi-sbp-1 was not silenced. Transgenic expression of the double-stranded RNA construct of the Mi-sbp-1 gene in tobacco plants caused 40-45% reduction in M. incognita multiplication, 30-43.8% reduction in the number of egg masses, and 33-54% reduction in the number of eggs per egg mass compared with the wild type control plants. Our results confirm that Mi-sbp-1 is a key regulator of lipogenesis in M. incognita and suggest that it can be used as an effective target for its management. The findings of this study can be extended to develop methods to manage other economically important parasitic nematodes.
The interaction among plants and their pollinators has been a major factor which enriched floral traits known as pollination syndromes and promoted the diversification of flowering plants. One of the bee-pollination syndromes in Faboideae with keel blossoms is the formation of a landing platform by wing and keel petals. However, the molecular mechanisms of elaborating a keel blossom remain unclear. By performing large scale mutagenesis, we isolated and characterized a mutant in Vigna radiata, love on wings (low), which shows developmental defects in petal asymmetry and vasculature, leading to a failure in landing platform formation. We cloned the locus through map-based cloning together with RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis. We found that LOW encoded a nucleus-localized Dof-like protein and was expressed in the flower provascular and vascular tissues. A single copy of LOW was detected in legumes, in contrast with other taxa where there seems to be at least 2 copies. Thirty one Dof proteins have been identified from the V. radiata's genome, which can be further divided into four Major Cluster of Orthologous Groups (MCOGs). We also showed that ectopic expression of LOW in Arabidopsis driven by its native promoter caused changes in petal vasculature pattern. To summarize, our study isolated a legume Dof-like factor LOW from V. radiata, which affects vasculature development in this species and this change can, in turn, impact petal development and overall morphology of keel blossom.
Transcriptional regulation is important for plants to respond to toxic effects of aluminium (Al). However, our current knowledge to these events is confined to a few transcription factors. Here, we functionally characterized a rice bean (Vigna umbellata) NAC-type transcription factor, VuNAR1, in terms of Al stress response. We demonstrated that rice bean VuNAR1 is a nuclear-localized transcriptional activator, whose expression was specifically upregulated by Al in roots but not in shoot. VuNAR1 overexpressing Arabidopsis plants exhibit improved Al resistance via Al exclusion. However, VuNAR1-mediated Al exclusion is independent of the function of known Al-resistant genes. Comparative transcriptomic analysis revealed that VuNAR1 specifically regulates the expression of genes associated with protein phosphorylation and cell wall modification in Arabidopsis. Transient expression assay demonstrated the direct transcriptional activation of cell wall-associated receptor kinase 1 (WAK1) by VuNAR1. Moreover, yeast one-hybrid assays and MEME motif searches identified a new VuNAR1-specific binding motif in the promoter of WAK1. Compared with wild-type Arabidopsis plants, VuNAR1 overexpressing plants have higher WAK1 expression and less pectin content. Taken together, our results suggest that VuNAR1 regulates Al resistance by regulating cell wall pectin metabolism via directly binding to the promoter of WAK1 and induce its expression.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the immunomodulatory activity of mung bean protein hydrolysate (MBPH) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 cells and discuss the possible immune regulatory mechanism. MBPH was prepared by alcalase, trypsin, neutrase, and flavourzyme. The 3-h alcalase-hydrolyzed hydrolysate with a molecular weight less than 1,450 Da was selected for the immunological tests. Results showed that MBPH possessed strong suppressing activity to proinflammatory mediators in a dose-dependent manner. Compared to the LPS alone group, MBPH (200 µg/mL) significantly reduced nitric oxide (NO), inducible nitric oxide synthase, interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-1β secretion levels by 52.6%, 53.2%, 48.4%, and 49.7%, respectively, in LPS-induced macrophages. It also enhanced IL-10 secretion from 789 to 3,678 pg/mL. MBPH blocked nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) translocation in LPS-induced macrophages through the prevention of IκBα phosphorylation, and this process further prevented p65 translocation into the nucleus. A possible mechanism of MBPH is that it regulated the expression of inflammatory factors via the NF-κB pathway, thus inhibiting inflammatory reactions. The results suggested that MBPH is of application potential in the development of immunomodulatory functional food to ameliorate immunosuppression.
Isoflavones, such as Genistein (Ge) and Daidzein (Dz) are widely studied Phytoestrogens with potent anti-osteoporotic and good antioxidant activity. Cowpea is one such legume having high isoflavone content and hence we aimed at studying the beneficial effects of the isoflavones isolated from cowpea as it is widely accepted staple food in India. Previously, we reported the effect of Cowpea isoflavones (CP) and Vitamin D (VD) owing to its ability of improving the osteoporotic condition in a diet induced osteoporotic rat model. In the present study, we tried to explore the underlying mechanism of CP and VD along with positive controls Dz and Ge in influencing the functions of human osteoblasts at cellular level. Initially, MG-63 cells were assessed for the expression of genes involved in BMP-2 signaling pathway, like Bone morphogenic protein (BMP-2), transcription factor Osterix (OSX), total and phosphorylated Smad 1/5/8 levels and osteoblast specific genes levels namely Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), Osteopontin (OPN), and Collagen by immunoblot, flow cytometry, and quantitative RT-PCR studies. All the levels that were upregulated with the initial exposure of the compounds got inhibited after Noggin exposure a specific BMP-2 antagonist both at protein level and m-RNA level, except OSX where the expression was totally hindered in CP and Ge treated groups alone. Hence, CP and VD activate BMP-2/Smad signaling pathway and promote further proliferation and differentiation of osteoblasts. Therefore, results prove that isoflavones isolated from cowpea could be used in treating bone-related disorders.
Asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis) is a warm season legume which is widely distributed over subtropical regions and semiarid areas. It is mainly grown as a significant protein source in developing countries. Salinity, as one of the main abiotic stress factors, constrains the normal growth and yield of asparagus bean. This study used two cultivars (a salt-sensitive genotype and a salt-tolerant genotype) under salt stress vs. control to identify salt-stress-induced genes in asparagus bean using RNA sequencing. A total of 692,086,838 high-quality clean reads, assigned to 121,138 unigenes, were obtained from control and salt-treated libraries. Then, 216 root-derived DEGs (differentially expressed genes) and 127 leaf-derived DEGs were identified under salt stress between the two cultivars. Of these DEGs, thirteen were assigned to six transcription factors (TFs), including AP2/EREBP, CCHC(Zn), C2H2, WRKY, WD40-like and LIM. GO analysis indicated four DEGs might take effects on the "oxidation reduction", "transport" and "signal transduction" process. Moreover, expression of nine randomly-chosen DEGs was verified by quantitative real-time-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis. Predicted function of the nine tested DEGs was mainly involved in the KEGG pathway of cation transport, response to osmotic stress, and phosphorelay signal transduction system. A salt-stress-related pathway of "SNARE interactions in vesicular transport" was concerned. As byproducts, 15, 321 microsatellite markers were found in all the unigenes, and 17 SNP linked to six salt-stress induced DEGs were revealed. These candidate genes provide novel insights for understanding the salt tolerance mechanism of asparagus bean in the future.
We examined the changes in the heart of rats at the early stages of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes, and whether azuki bean extract (ABE) could influence these changes. The experimental diabetic rats received 0 or 40 mg/kg of ABE orally for 4 weeks, whereas the control group rats received distilled water. 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) and expression of proteins associated with peroxisomal FA β-oxidation as well as oxidative stress markers were examined. The levels of peroxisomal ACOX1 and catalase of the diabetic groups were significantly higher than those in the control group. The levels of p62, phosphorylated-p62 (p-p62) and HO-1 in the STZ group were significantly higher than those in the control group, and the levels of p-p62, HO-1, and 8-OHdG were significantly lower by ABE administration. The STZ-induced early diabetes increases the levels of proteins related to peroxisomal FA β-oxidation and oxidative stress markers in hearts. ABE protects diabetic hearts from oxidative damage.
Interferon-induced expression of programmed cell death ligands (PD-L1/PD-L2) may sustain tumour immune-evasion. Patients featuring MET amplification, a genetic lesion driving transformation, may benefit from anti-MET treatment. We explored if MET-targeted therapy interferes with Interferon-γ modulation of PD-L1/PD-L2 in MET-amplified tumours. PD-L1/PD-L2 expression and signalling pathways downstream of MET or Interferon-γ were analysed in MET-amplified tumour cell lines and in patient-derived tumour organoids, in basal condition, upon Interferon-γ stimulation, and after anti-MET therapy. PD-L1 and PD-L2 were upregulated in MET-amplified tumour cells upon Interferon-γ treatment. This induction was impaired by JNJ-605, a selective inhibitor of MET kinase activity, and MvDN30, an antibody inducing MET proteolytic cleavage. We found that activation of JAKs/ STAT1, signal transducers downstream of the Interferon-γ receptor, was neutralised by MET inhibitors. Moreover, JAK2 and MET associated in the same signalling complex depending on MET phosphorylation. Results were confirmed in MET-amplified organoids derived from human colorectal tumours, where JNJ-605 treatment revoked Interferon-γ induced PD-L1 expression. These data show that in MET-amplified cancers, treatment with MET inhibitors counteracts the induction of PD-1 ligands by Interferon-γ. Thus, therapeutic use of anti-MET drugs may provide additional clinical benefit over and above the intended inhibition of the target oncogene.
Heat shock transcription factors (Hsfs) are essential elements in plant signal transduction pathways that mediate gene expression in response to various abiotic stresses. Mungbean (
The expanding world population is expected to double the worldwide demand for food by 2050. Eighty-eight percent of countries currently face a serious burden of malnutrition, especially in Africa and south and southeast Asia. About 95% of the food energy needs of humans are fulfilled by just 30 species, of which wheat, maize, and rice provide the majority of calories. Therefore, to diversify and stabilize the global food supply, enhance agricultural productivity, and tackle malnutrition, greater use of neglected or underutilized local plants (so-called orphan crops, but also including a few plants of special significance to agriculture, agroforestry, and nutrition) could be a partial solution. Here, we present draft genome information for five agriculturally, biologically, medicinally, and economically important underutilized plants native to Africa: Vigna subterranea, Lablab purpureus, Faidherbia albida, Sclerocarya birrea, and Moringa oleifera. Assembled genomes range in size from 217 to 654 Mb. In V. subterranea, L. purpureus, F. albida, S. birrea, and M. oleifera, we have predicted 31,707, 20,946, 28,979, 18,937, and 18,451 protein-coding genes, respectively. By further analyzing the expansion and contraction of selected gene families, we have characterized root nodule symbiosis genes, transcription factors, and starch biosynthesis-related genes in these genomes. These genome data will be useful to identify and characterize agronomically important genes and understand their modes of action, enabling genomics-based, evolutionary studies, and breeding strategies to design faster, more focused, and predictable crop improvement programs.
The seminal participation of WRKY transcription factors in plant development, metabolism and in the governance of defense mechanism implicated their gaining importance for genomic and functional studies. The recent release of draft genome sequences of two legume crops, Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) and Mung bean (Vigna radiata) has paved the way for characterization of WRKY gene family in these crops. We found 84 WRKY genes in Adzuki bean (VaWRKY) and 85 WRKY genes in Mung bean (VrWRKY). Based on the phylogenetic analysis, VaWRKY genes were classified into three groups with 15 members in Group I, 56 members in Group II, and 13 members in Group III, which was comparable to VrWRKY distribution in Mung bean, 16, 56 and 13 members in Group I, II and III, respectively. The few tandem and segmental duplication events suggested that recent duplication plays no prominent role in the expansion VaWRKY and VrWRKY genes. The illustration of gene-structure and their encoded protein-domains further revealed the nature of WRKY proteins. Moreover, the identification of abiotic or biotic stress-responsive cis-regulatory elements in the promoter regions of some WRKY genes provides fundamental insights for their further implementation in stress-tolerance and genetic improvement of agronomic traits.
Environmental stresses can reduce crop yield and quality considerably. Plants protect cell metabolism in response to abiotic stresses at all stages of their life cycle, including seed production. As the production of vigorous seeds is important to both yield and crop growth, we analyzed causes of yield loss and reduced grain quality in staple crops exposed to environmental stresses such as drought and temperature extremes, with a focus on the remobilization of nutrients and water status during seed filling. Because water is one of the factors that limit seed development, seeds must have mechanisms that allow them to withstand water loss during seed maturation. In addition, analysis of the effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on transcription regulation and signaling should help to elucidate the regulation of seed dormancy and germination. In this review, we focus on nutrient remobilization, water mobility, plant hormones (gibberellins, abscisic acid, and ethylene), and ROS in sink and source organs and describe how rice, wheat, barley, soybean, and cowpea plants control seed maturation and germination under environmental stresses.
Cowpea is an important horticultural crop in tropical and subtropical areas of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, as well as parts of southern Europe and Central and South America. Chilling injury is a common physiological hazard of cowpea in cold chain logistics which reduce the cowpea pods nutritional quality and product value. However, the molecular mechanism involved in chilling injury remains unclear in cowpea pods. RNA-Seq and sRNA-Seq technologies were employed to decipher the miRNAs and mRNAs expression profiles and their regulatory networks in cowpea pods involved in chilling stress. Differentially expressed miRNAs and mRNA profiles were obtained based on cluster analysis, miRNAs and target genes were found to show coherent relationships in the regulatory networks of chilling injury. Furthermore, we found that numerous miRNAs and nat-siRNAs' targets were predicted to be key enzymes involved in the redox reactions such as POD, CAT, AO and LOX, energy metabolism such as ATPase, FAD and NAD related enzymes and different transcription factors such as WRKY, bHLH, MYB, ERF and NAC which play important roles in chilling injury.
Mung bean and adzuki bean are warm-season legumes widely cultivated in China. However, bean production in major producing regions is limited by biotic and abiotic stress, such as drought and salt stress. Basic leucine zipper (bZIP) genes play key roles in responses to various biotic and abiotic stresses. However, only several bZIP genes involved in drought and salt stress in legumes, especially Vigna radiata and Vigna angularis, have been identified. In this study, we identified 54 and 50 bZIP proteins from whole-genome sequences of V. radiata and V. angularis, respectively. First, we comprehensively surveyed the characteristics of all bZIP genes, including their gene structure, chromosome distribution and motif composition. Phylogenetic trees showed that VrbZIP and VabZIP proteins were divided into ten clades comprising nine known and one unknown subgroup. The results of the nucleotide substitution rate of the orthologous gene pairs showed that bZIP proteins have undergone strong purifying selection: V. radiata and V. angularis diverged 1.25 million years ago (mya) to 9.20 mya (average of 4.95 mya). We also found that many cis-acting regulatory elements (CAREs) involved in abiotic stress and plant hormone responses were detected in the putative promoter regions of the bZIP genes. Finally, using the quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) method, we performed expression profiling of the bZIP genes in response to drought, salt and abscisic acid (ABA). We identified several bZIP genes that may be involved in drought and salt responses. Generally, our results provided useful and rich resources of VrbZIP and VabZIP genes for the functional characterization and understanding of bZIP transcription factors (TFs) in warm-season legumes. In addition, our results revealed important and interesting data - a subset of VrbZIP and VabZIP gene expression profiles in response to drought, salt and ABA stress. These results provide gene expression evidence for the selection of candidate genes under drought and salt stress for future study.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is the most important food and forage legume in the semi-arid tropics of sub-Saharan Africa where approximately 80% of worldwide production takes place primarily on low-input, subsistence farm sites. Among the major goals of cowpea breeding and improvement programs are the rapid manipulation of agronomic traits for seed size and quality and improved resistance to abiotic and biotic stresses to enhance productivity. Knowing the suite of transcription factors (TFs) and transcriptionally active proteins (TAPs) that control various critical plant cellular processes would contribute tremendously to these improvement aims. We used a computational approach that employed three different predictive pipelines to data mine the cowpea genome and identified over 4400 genes representing 136 different TF and TAP families. We compare the information content of cowpea to two evolutionarily close species common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), and soybean (Glycine max) to gauge the relative informational content. Our data indicate that correcting for genome size cowpea has fewer TF and TAP genes than common bean (4408 / 5291) and soybean (4408/ 11,065). Members of the GROWTH-REGULATING FACTOR (GRF) and Auxin/indole-3-acetic acid (Aux/IAA) gene families appear to be over-represented in the genome relative to common bean and soybean, whereas members of the MADS (Minichromosome maintenance deficient 1 (MCM1), AGAMOUS, DEFICIENS, and serum response factor (SRF)) and C2C2-YABBY appear to be under-represented. Analysis of the AP2-EREBP APETALA2-Ethylene Responsive Element Binding Protein (AP2-EREBP), NAC (NAM (no apical meristem), ATAF1, 2 (Arabidopsis transcription activation factor), CUC (cup-shaped cotyledon)), and WRKY families, known to be important in defense signaling, revealed changes and phylogenetic rearrangements relative to common bean and soybean that suggest these groups may have evolved different functions. The availability of detailed information on the coding capacity of the cowpea genome and in particular the various TF and TAP gene families will facilitate future comparative analysis and development of strategies for controlling growth, differentiation, and abiotic and biotic stress resistances of cowpea.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated phosphorylation cascade is a vital component of plant cellular signalling. Despite this, MAPK signalling cascade is less characterized in crop legumes. To fill this void, we present here a comprehensive phylogeny of MAPK kinases (MKKs) and MAPKs identified from 16 legume species belonging to genistoid (Lupinus angustifolius), dalbergioid (Arachis spp.), phaseoloid (Glycine max, Cajanus cajan, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Vigna spp.), and galegoid (Cicer arietinum, Lotus japonicus, Medicago truncatula, Pisum sativum, Trifolium spp., and Vicia faba) clades. Using the genes of the diploid crop chickpea (C. arietinum), an exhaustive interaction analysis was performed between MKKs and MAPKs by split-ubiquitin based yeast two-hybrid (Y2H). Twenty seven interactions of varying strengths were identified between chickpea MKKs and MAPKs. These interactions were verified in planta by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). As a first report in plants, four intra-molecular interactions of weak strength were identified within chickpea MKKs. Additionally; two TEOSINTE-BRANCHED1/CYCLOIDEA/PCF (TCP) transcription factors of class I were identified as novel down-stream interacting partners of seven MAPKs. We propose that this highly reliable MAPK interaction network, presented here for chickpea, can be utilized as a reference for legumes and thus will help in deciphering their role in legume-specific events.
Pigeonpea (Cajanus cajan L.), a diploid legume crop, is a member of the tribe Phaseoleae. This tribe is descended from the millettioid (tropical) clade of the subfamily Papilionoideae, which includes many important legume crop species such as soybean (Glycine max), mung bean (Vigna radiata), cowpea (Vigna ungiculata), and common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). It plays major role in food and nutritional security, being rich source of proteins, minerals and vitamins. We have developed a comprehensive Pigeonpea Transcription Factors Database (PpTFDB) that encompasses information about 1829 putative transcription factors (TFs) and their 55 TF families. PpTFDB provides a comprehensive information about each of the identified TFs that includes chromosomal location, protein physicochemical properties, sequence data, protein functional annotation, simple sequence repeats (SSRs) with primers derived from their motifs, orthology with related legume crops, and gene ontology (GO) assignment to respective TFs. (PpTFDB: http://14.139.229.199/PpTFDB/Home.aspx) is a freely available and user friendly web resource that facilitates users to retrieve the information of individual members of a TF family through a set of query interfaces including TF ID or protein functional annotation. In addition, users can also get the information by browsing interfaces, which include browsing by TF Categories and by, GO Categories. This PpTFDB will serve as a promising central resource for researchers as well as breeders who are working towards crop improvement of legume crops.
The MYB gene family represents one of the largest groups of transcription factors in plants. Recent evidences have also demonstrated key role of MYB transcription factors in regulating the expression of major genes involved in the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoid compounds which confer biotic and abiotic stress tolerance in plant species. However, no comprehensive genome-wide analysis of the phenylpropanoid pathway-associated MYB transcription factors has been reported thus far. In this study, 11 Arabidopsis MYB proteins, such as MYB3, MYB4, MYB7, MYB11, MYB12, MYB32, MYB75, MYB90, MYB111, MYB113, and MYB114 were initially identified considering their reported regulatory function in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway. Subsequent genome-wide analysis have identified the corresponding homologues from Glycine max, Vigna radiata, Oryza sativa, and Zea mays, while homologous of Arabidopsis MYB75, MYB90, MYB113, and MYB114 were not detected in rice and maize genomes. The identified MYB proteins were classified into three groups (I-III) based on phylogeny. Sequence and domain analysis revealed presence of two conserved DNA binding MYB domains in the selected MYB proteins. Promoter analysis indicated presence of cis-regulatory elements related to light signaling, development, and stress response. Expression analysis of selected Arabidopsis MYB genes revealed their function in plant development and abiotic stress response, consistent with gene ontology annotations. Together, these results provide a useful framework for further experimental studies for the functional characterization of the target MYB genes in the context of regulation of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and plant stress response.
Adzuki beans (Vigna angularis), one of the most important legume crops in East Asia, have been shown to possess potential antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects in mice. Here, we investigated the effects of black adzuki bean (BAB) on colon inflammation triggered by high-fat diet (HD)-induced obesity in mice. We also isolated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated peritoneal macrophages and assessed inflammation-related parameters. We found that BAB decreased the concentrations of LPS and various circulating proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-6 in mice with HD-induced obesity. BAB also attenuated changes associated with HD-induced colon inflammation, such as increased expression of proinflammatory cytokines. Moreover, BAB inhibited induction of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, and activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) in the colon. Furthermore, BAB upregulated colon mRNA expression of tight junction-associated proteins such as claudin-1 and Zo-1, as well as mucosal barrier defense promoting genes such as mucin (Muc) 1 and Muc3. BAB also reduced macrophage infiltration into adipose tissue in mice with HD-induced intestinal inflammation. In LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages, treatment with BAB significantly decreased TNF-α and NO production, NF-κB activation, and iNOS expression. Our findings indicate that BAB ameliorates HD-induced disorders such as obesity and colitis by improving mucosal barrier protection and reducing endotoxemia, as well as by inactivating NF-κB to decrease the production of proinflammatory cytokines.
Hydrogen peroxide (H RNA-Seq data revealed that H Using RNA-Seq and qRT-PCR techniques, we analysed the global changes in gene expression and functional profiling during H
Cereals and legumes are traditionally consumed together in many cultures, and may provide complementary health benefits beyond what is known about improved indispensable amino acid intake. Here, we use an in vitro model of inflammatory pathways to investigate whether the different flavonoids in sorghum and cowpea could synergistically reduce inflammation. Interactive effect of combining apigenin and quercetin, as well as extracts (70% acetone, v/v) from a flavone-dominated white sorghum and flavonol-dominated white cowpea, against LPS-induced NF-κB and downstream cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8) gene and protein expression was evaluated using the CCD18Co colon myofibroblasts. Combination of apigenin and quercetin, and sorghum and cowpea extracts synergistically downregulated LPS-induced NF-κB gene and protein expression in a dose-dependent manner, with additive effect producing IC Combining the structurally related cereal flavones and legume flavonols elicit strong synergistic anti-inflammatory response in LPS-stimulated nonmalignant colonocytes, likely by targeting interdependent mechanisms.
Cardiac hypertrophy is a major risk factor for heart failure. Hence, its attenuation represents an important clinical goal. Erk1,2 signalling is pivotal in the cardiac response to stress, suggesting that its inhibition may be a good strategy to revert heart hypertrophy. In this work, we unveiled the events associated with cardiac hypertrophy by means of a transgenic model expressing activated Met receptor. c-Met proto-oncogene encodes for the tyrosine kinase receptor of Hepatocyte growth factor and is a strong inducer of Ras-Raf-Mek-Erk1,2 pathway. We showed that three weeks after the induction of activated Met, the heart presents a remarkable concentric hypertrophy, with no signs of congestive failure and preserved contractility. Cardiac enlargement is accompanied by upregulation of growth-regulating transcription factors, natriuretic peptides, cytoskeletal proteins, and Extracellular Matrix remodelling factors (Timp1 and Pai1). At a later stage, cardiac hypertrophic remodelling results into heart failure with preserved systolic function. Prevention trial by suppressing activated Met showed that cardiac hypertrophy is reversible, and progression to heart failure is prevented. Notably, treatment with Pimasertib, Mek1 inhibitor, attenuates cardiac hypertrophy and remodelling. Our results suggest that modulation of Erk1.2 signalling may constitute a new therapeutic approach for treating cardiac hypertrophies.
Bambara groundnut (Vigna subterranea (L.) Verdc.) is an African legume and is a promising underutilized crop with good seed nutritional values. Low temperature stress in a number of African countries at night, such as Botswana, can effect the growth and development of bambara groundnut, leading to losses in potential crop yield. Therefore, in this study we developed a computational pipeline to identify and analyze the genes and gene modules associated with low temperature stress responses in bambara groundnut using the cross-species microarray technique (as bambara groundnut has no microarray chip) coupled with network-based analysis. Analyses of the bambara groundnut transcriptome using cross-species gene expression data resulted in the identification of 375 and 659 differentially expressed genes (p<0.01) under the sub-optimal (23°C) and very sub-optimal (18°C) temperatures, respectively, of which 110 genes are commonly shared between the two stress conditions. The construction of a Highest Reciprocal Rank-based gene co-expression network, followed by its partition using a Heuristic Cluster Chiseling Algorithm resulted in 6 and 7 gene modules in sub-optimal and very sub-optimal temperature stresses being identified, respectively. Modules of sub-optimal temperature stress are principally enriched with carbohydrate and lipid metabolic processes, while most of the modules of very sub-optimal temperature stress are significantly enriched with responses to stimuli and various metabolic processes. Several transcription factors (from MYB, NAC, WRKY, WHIRLY & GATA classes) that may regulate the downstream genes involved in response to stimulus in order for the plant to withstand very sub-optimal temperature stress were highlighted. The identified gene modules could be useful in breeding for low-temperature stress tolerant bambara groundnut varieties.
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) is commonly grown in Asia as an important nutritional dry grain legume, as it can survive better in arid conditions than other crops. Abiotic stresses, such as drought and high-salt contents, negatively impact its growth and production. The dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2 (DREB2) transcription factors play a significant role in the response to these stress stimuli via transcriptional regulation of downstream genes containing the cis-element dehydration-responsive element (DRE). However, the molecular mechanisms involved in the drought tolerance of this species remain elusive, with very few reported candidate genes. No DREB2 ortholog has been reported for mung bean, and the function of mung bean DREB2 is not clear. In this study, a novel VrDREB2A gene with conserved AP2 domains and transactivation ability was isolated from mung bean. A modified VrDREB2A protein lacking the putative negative regulatory domain encoded by nucleotides 394-543 was shown to be localized in the nucleus. Expression of the VrDREB2A gene was induced by drought, high salt concentrations and abscisic acid treatment. Furthermore, comparing with the wild type Arabidopsis, the overexpression of VrDREB2A activated the expression of downstream genes in transgenic Arabidopsis, resulting in enhanced tolerance to drought and high-salt stresses and no growth retardation. The results from this study indicate that VrDREB2A functions as an important transcriptional activator and may help increase the abiotic stress tolerance of the mung bean plant.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease associated with a combination of synovium joint inflammation, synovium hyperplasia, and destruction of cartilage and bone. Oleanolic acid acetate (OAA), a compound isolated from Vigna angularis, has been known to possess pharmacological activities, including anti-inflammation and anti-bone destruction. In this study, we investigated the effects of OAA on RA and the underlying mechanisms of action by using a type-II collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α-stimulated RA synovial fibroblasts. Oral administration of OAA decreased the clinical arthritis symptoms, paw thickness, histologic and radiologic changes, and serum total and anti-type II collagen IgG, IgG1, and IgG2a levels. OAA administration reduced Th1/Th17 phenotype CD4(+) T lymphocyte expansions and inflammatory cytokine productions in T cell activated draining lymph nodes and spleen. OAA reduced the expression and production of inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1/3, in the ankle joint tissue and RA synovial fibroblasts by down-regulating Akt, mitogen-activated protein kinases, and nuclear factor-κB. Our results clearly support that OAA plays a therapeutic role in RA pathogenesis by modulating helper T cell immune responses and matrix-degrading enzymes. The immunosuppressive effects of OAA were comparable to dexamethasone and ketoprofen. We provide evidences that OAA could be a potential therapeutic candidate for RA.
The rice bean (Vigna umbellata) root apex specifically secretes citrate through expression activation of Vigna umbellata Multidrug and Toxic Compound Extrusion 1 (VuMATE1) under aluminum (Al(3+) ) stress. However, the underlying mechanisms regulating VuMATE1 expression remain unknown. We isolated and characterized a gene encoding Sensitive to Proton Rhizotoxicity1 (STOP1)-like protein, VuSTOP1, from rice bean. The role of VuSTOP1 in regulating VuMATE1 expression was investigated using the yeast one-hybrid assay. We characterized the function of VuSTOP1 in Al(3) (+) - and H(+) -tolerance using in planta complementation assays. We demonstrated that VuSTOP1 has transactivation potential. We found that VuSTOP1 expression is inducible by Al(3+) and H(+) stress. However, although VuSTOP1 binds to the promoter of VuMATE1, the inconsistent tissue localization patterns of VuSTOP1 and VuMATE1 preclude VuSTOP1 as the major factor regulating VuMATE1 expression. In addition, when a protein translation inhibitor increased expression of VuSTOP1, VuMATE1 expression was inhibited. In planta complementation assay demonstrated that VuSTOP1 could fully restore expression of genes involved in H(+) tolerance, but could only partially restore expression of AtMATE. We conclude that VuSTOP1 plays a major role in H(+) tolerance, but only a minor role in Al(3+) tolerance. The differential transcriptional regulation of VuSTOP1 and VuMATE1 reveals a complex regulatory system controlling VuMATE1 expression.
The aim of this work was to investigate the effects of black adzuki bean (BAB) extract on adipocytes, and to elucidate the cellular mechanisms. In order to examine the proliferation of preadipocytes and differentiating adipocytes, cell viability and DNA content were measured over a period of time. Lipid accumulation during cell differentiation and the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of BAB on the transcriptional factors involved, with their anti-adipogenic effects, were also identified. We observed that BAB exhibits anti-adipogenic effects through the inhibition of proliferation, thereby lowering mRNA expression of C/EBPβ and suppressing adipogenesis during the early stage of differentiation. This, in turn, resulted in a reduction of TG accumulation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Treating the cells with BAB not only suppressed the adipogenesis-associated key transcription factors PPARγ and C/EBPα but also significantly decreased the mRNA expression of GLUT4, FABP4, LPL and adiponectin. The expression of lipolytic genes like ATGL and HSL were higher in the treatment group than in the control. Overall, the black adzuki bean extract demonstrated an anti-adipogenic property, which makes it a potential dietary supplement for attenuation of obesity.
A novel, Gram-staining-negative, rod-shaped, aerobic and motile bacterium, designated strain CC-SKC2(T), was isolated from the root tumor of a green bell pepper (Capsicum annuum var. grossum) plant in Taiwan. Cells were positive for oxidase and catalase activities and exhibited growth at 25-37 °C, pH 4.0-9.0 and tolerated NaCl concentrations up to 4.0 % (w/v). Strain CC-SKC2(T) is able to trigger nodulation in soybean (Glycine max Merr.), but not in Capsicum annuum var. grossum, red bean (Vigna angularis), sesbania (Sesbania roxburghii Merr.) or alfalfa (Medicago varia Martin.). The novel strain shared highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to Rhizobium rhizoryzae KCTC 23652(T) and Rhizobium straminoryzae CC-LY845(T) (both 97.5 %) followed by Rhizobium lemnae L6-16(T) (97.3 %), Rhizobium pseudoryzae KCTC 23294(T) (97.1 %), and Rhizobium paknamense NBRC 109338(T) (97.0 %), whereas other Rhizobium species shared <96.7 % similarity. The DNA-DNA relatedness values of strain CC-SKC2(T) with R. rhizoryzae KCTC 23652(T), R. pseudoryzae KCTC 23294(T) and R. paknamense NBRC 109338(T) were 11.4, 17.2 and 17.0 %, respectively (reciprocal values were 11.1, 28.3 and 24.0 %, respectively). Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA, atpD and recA genes revealed a distinct taxonomic position attained by strain CC-SKC2(T) with respect to other Rhizobium species. The major fatty acids in strain CC-SKC2(T) were C16:0, C19:0 cyclo ω8c, C14:0 3-OH and/or C16:1 iso I and C18:1 ω7c and/or C18:1 ω6c. The polyamine pattern showed predominance of spermidine and moderate amounts of sym-homospermidine. The predominant quinone system was ubiquinone (Q-10) and the DNA G+C content was 60.5 mol%. On the basis of polyphasic taxonomic evidence presented here, strain CC-SKC2(T) is proposed to represent a novel species within the genus Rhizobium, for which the name Rhizobium capsici sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is CC-SKC2(T) (=BCRC 80699(T) = JCM 19535(T)).
The prevalence of black gram (Vigna mungo) induced allergic reactions are reported from several parts of the world including Asia and Australia. But, a thorough exploration of the allergic reactions induced by black gram proteins is still lacking. Therefore, efforts have been made to explore black gram allergy using in vivo and in vitro approaches. In this study, Simulated Gastric Fluid (SGF) assay and IgE immunoblotting were carried out to identify clinically relevant allergens of black gram. BALB/c mice and RBL-2H3 cells were used for elucidation of allergenic reactions of black gram proteins. Further, this study was extended to screen black gram sensitive patients among nasobronchial allergic patients on the basis of clinical history, skin prick test (SPT), specific IgE levels and IgE immunoblotting. Enhanced levels of specific IgE, IgG1/IgG2a (p < 0.05), histamine (p < 0.05), clinical symptoms, pathological indications in the lungs, intestine and spleen were evident in black gram sensitized BALB/c mice. Moreover, the expression of Th2 cytokine transcripts and GATA-3/T-bet ratio was found enhanced in the treated group. In vitro studies on RBL-2H3 cells,showed increased release of β-hexosaminidase (p < 0.05), histamine (p < 0.05), cysteinyl leukotriene (p<0.05) and prostaglandin D2 (p < 0.05). Further, 8.5% of screened patients were found allergic to black gram and concomitant sensitization with other allergens has shown the possibility of further enhancement in allergenic problem. Conclusively, the present study suggested that black gram consumption may be responsible for inducing immediate type of allergic sensitization in susceptible subjects.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important grain legume cultivated in drought-prone parts of the world, having higher tolerance to heat and drought than many other crops. The transcription factor, Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding protein 2A (DREB2A), controls expression of many genes involved in osmotic and heat stress responses of plants. In Arabidopsis, DREB2A-interacting proteins (DRIPs), which function as E3 ubiquitin ligases (EC 6.3.2.19), regulate the stability of DREB2A by targeting it for proteasome-mediated degradation. In this study, we cloned the cowpea ortholog of DRIP (VuDRIP) using PCR based methods. The 1614 bp long VuDRIP mRNA encoded a protein of 433 amino acids having a C3HC4-type Really Interesting New Gene (RING) domain in the N-terminus and a C-terminal conserved region, similar to Arabidopsis DRIP1 and DRIP2. We found VuDRIP up-regulation in response to various abiotic stresses and phytohormones. Using yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisae) two-hybrid analysis, VuDRIP was identified as a VuDREB2A-interacting protein. The results indicate negative regulation of VuDREB2A by ubiquitin ligases in cowpea similar to Arabidopsis along with their other unknown roles in stress and hormone signaling pathways.
Osteoporosis is a global public health problem thought to be caused by an imbalance in bone metabolism. We examined in this study the 40% ethanol fraction of HP-20 resin in combination with a hot-water adzuki extract (EtEx.40) for its effect on osteoblast and osteoclast differentiation. EtEx.40-treated murine preosteoblast MC3T3-E1 cells exhibited significantly elevated alkaline phosphatase activity and mineralization. EtEx.40 facilitated osteoblast differentiation by up-regulating such osteoblast differentiation-related molecules as runt-related transcription factor 2, distal-less homeobox 5, and osterix via p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. EtEx.40 also suppressed the formation of large tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase-positive multinucleated cells in RAW264.7 cells that had been stimulated with the receptor activator of the nuclear factor κB ligand/macrophage colony-stimulating factor. EtEx.40 significantly inhibited NF-κB activation, thus reducing the expression of such downstream molecules as c-Fos and NFATc1. Our findings suggest that EtEx.40 could be used to maintain bone mass.
VuDREB2A exists in cowpea as a canonical DREB2-type transcription factor, having the ability to bind dehydration-responsive elements in vitro and confer enhanced drought resistance in transgenic Arabidopsis. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important cultivated legume that can survive better in arid conditions than other crops. But the molecular mechanisms involved in the drought tolerance of this species remain elusive with very few reported candidate genes. The Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding Protein2 (DREB2) group of transcription factors plays key roles in plant responses to drought. However, no DREB2 ortholog has been reported from cowpea so far. In this study, we isolated and characterized a gene from cowpea, namely VuDREB2A, encoding a protein of 377 amino acids exhibiting features of reported DREB2-type proteins. In cowpea, VuDREB2A transcript accumulation was highly induced by desiccation, heat and salt, but slightly by exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. We also isolated the VuDREB2A promoter and predicted stress-responsive cis-elements in it using Arabidopsis microarray data. The E. coli-expressed VuDREB2A protein showed binding to synthetic oligonucleotides with Dehydration-Responsive Elements (DREs) from Arabidopsis, in electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Heterologous expression of VuDREB2A in Arabidopsis significantly improved plant survival under drought. In addition, overexpression of a truncated version of VuDREB2A, after removal of a putative negative regulatory domain (between amino acids 132-182) led to a dwarf phenotype in the transgenic plants. Microarray and quantitative PCR analyses of VuDREB2A overexpressing Arabidopsis revealed up-regulation of stress-responsive genes having DRE overrepresented in their promoters. In summary, our results indicate that VuDREB2A conserves the basic functionality and mode of regulation of DREB2A in Arabidopsis and could be a potent candidate gene for the genetic improvement of drought resistance in cowpea.
Owing to their potential pharmacological activities in human disease, natural plant-derived compounds have recently become the focus of increased research interest. In this study, we first isolated oleanolic acid acetate (OAA), a triterpenoid compound, from Vigna angularis (azuki bean) to discover anti-bone resorptive agents. Many studies have identified and described the various medicinal effects of V. angularis extract. However, the pharmacological effect of OAA-derived V. angularis extract, particularly the effect on osteoclastogenesis, is not known. Therefore, we investigated the effect and mechanism of OAA in receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL)-induced osteoclastogenesis. OAA inhibited RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation in bone marrow macrophages (BMMs) without any evidence of cytotoxicity. Interestingly, OAA significantly inhibited Btk phosphorylation, phospholipase Cγ2 (PLCγ2) phosphorylation, calcium ion (Ca(2+)) oscillation, and nuclear factor of activated T cell c1 (NFATc1) expression in RANKL-stimulated BMMs, but did not affect RANKL-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase. OAA also inhibited the bone-resorbing activity of mature osteoclasts. Furthermore, mice treated with OAA demonstrated marked attenuation of lipopolysaccharide-induced bone erosion based on micro-computed tomography and histologic analysis of femurs. Taken together, the results suggested that OAA inhibited RANKL-mediated osteoclastogenesis via PLCγ2-Ca(2+)-NFATc1 signaling in vitro and suppressed inflammatory bone loss in vivo.
In this work we have characterised the Sinorhizobium fredii HH103 greA lpsB lpsCDE genetic region and analysed for the first time the symbiotic performance of Sinorhizobium fredii lps mutants on soybean. The organization of the S. fredii HH103 greA, lpsB, and lpsCDE genes was equal to that of Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021. S. fredii HH103 greA, lpsB, and lpsE mutant derivatives produced altered LPS profiles that were characteristic of the gene mutated. In addition, S. fredii HH103 greA mutants showed a reduction in bacterial mobility and an increase of auto-agglutination in liquid cultures. RT-PCR and qPCR experiments demonstrated that the HH103 greA gene has a positive effect on the transcription of lpsB. Soybean plants inoculated with HH103 greA, lpsB or lpsE mutants formed numerous ineffective pseudonodules and showed severe symptoms of nitrogen starvation. However, HH103 greA and lps mutants were also able to induce the formation of a reduced number of soybean nodules of normal external morphology, allowing the possibility of studying the importance of bacterial LPS in later stages of the S. fredii HH103-soybean symbiosis. The infected cells of these nodules showed signs of early termination of symbiosis and lytical clearance of bacteroids. These cells also had very thick walls and accumulation of phenolic-like compounds, pointing to induced defense reactions. Our results show the importance of bacterial LPS in later stages of the S. fredii HH103-soybean symbiosis and their role in preventing host cell defense reactions. S. fredii HH103 lpsB mutants also showed reduced nodulation with Vigna unguiculata, although the symbiotic impairment was less pronounced than in soybean.
The present study was conducted in order to assess whether extracts or isolated compounds from Vigna angularis were able to suppress IL-6 signalling and to show the therapeutic effect on collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice. The effect of V. angularis on IL-6 signalling was studied by measuring Stat3-dependent luciferase activity, expression of inflammation-related genes, and phosphorylation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) induced by IL-6. CIA was induced by immunizing with bovine type II collagen. V. angularis extract (VAE) was administrated orally at 50 and 100 mg/kg from day 1 to day 28. Induction of arthritis was evaluated with a visual scoring system and histological analysis. Extracts or two triterpenoid compounds from V. angularis showed potent inhibitory effects on pSTAT3-inducible luciferase activity, STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation and the expression of inflammation-related genes induced by IL-6. Administration of VAE significantly suppressed the progression of CIA, accompanied by a reduced antibody response to type II collagen and protection from tissue damage in knee joints. Administration of VAE has a therapeutic effect on CIA and this effect is associated with the inhibitory activity on IL-6/STAT3 signalling. These results suggest that extracts or compounds from V. angularis could be a useful treatment for diseases related to IL-6, including RA.
To investigate the incidence and clinical relevance of classic and new prognostic markers, IGHV gene mutational status, and chromosomal abnormalities in clinical monoclonal B lymphocytosis (cMBL) compared with Rai stage 0 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (Rai0-CLL). A group of 136 patients with cMBL and a group of 216 Rai0-CLL cases were investigated prospectively. IGHV-mutated cases were significantly more frequent among cMBLs (P = 0.005), whereas the distribution of CD38 and ZAP-70 positive cases, of patients with NOTCH1 and SF3B1 mutations or exhibiting the major CLL cytogenetic abnormalities, was similar in the two groups. Moreover, no significant differences were found either in IGHV/IGHD/IGHJ gene usage or in the overall prevalence of stereotyped IGHV gene sequences. Cells from cMBL and Rai0-CLL exhibited similar gene and microRNA (miRNA) signatures; in addition, when grouped according to the IGHV mutational status, IGHV-unmutated cases showed different transcriptional signatures compared with IGHV-mutated patients, irrespective of the cMBL or Rai0-CLL classification. cMBL diagnosis per se was predictive of longer progression-free survival. Our study based on a prospective series of patients indicates that no major differences exist between the circulating cells from cMBL and Rai0-CLL, at least based on a comparison of the markers used in the study. This possibly suggests that the two conditions mainly differ in the initial size of the monoclonal cell population, which may influence the subsequent timing of clonal expansion and clinical manifestations.
The aim of the present study was to elucidate whether extracts of Vigna angularis (EVA) inhibit allergic inflammatory reactions and to elucidate the possible mechanisms of action. For the assessment of allergic inflammatory response, histamine release and the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines from human mast cells (HMC-1) were examined. To identify the underlying mechanisms of action, intracellular calcium and the activation of nuclear factor (NF)-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) were assayed. To confirm the effects of EVA in vivo, systemic and local allergic reaction mouse models were employed. EVA dose-dependently reduced phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and calcium ionophore A23187 (PMACI)-induced histamine release from mast cells. The inhibitory effects of EVA on the release of histamine from mast cells were mediated by the reduction of intracellular calcium levels. EVA decreased the PMACI-stimulated gene expression and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interleukin (IL)-6. The inhibitory effects of EVA on pro-inflammatory cytokines were NF-κB- and MAPK-dependent. In addition, EVA inhibited compound 48/80-induced systemic anaphylaxis and immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated cutaneous anaphylaxis. Our findings provide evidence that EVA inhibits mast cell-derived allergic inflammation, and suggest the possible therapeutic application of EVA in allergic inflammatory disorders.
In patients with metastatic breast cancer, the evaluation of the biological characteristics of metastatic bone deposits may be a valuable adjunct in clinical practice. We assessed the discordance in expression levels for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PgR) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) between primary tumor and bone metastases and its clinical impact on patient management. We retrospectively reviewed 363 CT-guided bone biopsies performed from January 1997 to December 2009. The proportions of ER, PgR and HER2 positive tumors at primary diagnosis and bone metastases, determined by IHC and/or FISH, were compared using McNemar's test. The impact of the biopsy reassessment on treatment choice was evaluated with Fisher's exact test. We selected 109 metastatic breast cancer patients with histologically confirmed bone metastases. Among 107 assessable patients the overall discordance rate was detected in 22 (20.5%) and in 47 (43.9%) patients for ER and PgR, respectively, and in six of 86 assessable patients (6.9%) for HER2 status. The indication to change endocrine therapy occurred in 62% and 30% of patients with ER discordance and ER concordance, respectively (p = 0.01). The indication to change targeted therapy occurred in 67% and 8% of patients with HER2 discordance and HER2 concordance, respectively (p = 0.002). We confirm that biopsy of metastases, including bone metastases, for reassessment of biology should be considered, since it is likely to impact on treatment choice.
Moth bean ( Vigna aconitifolia (Jacq.) Marechal) is an important grain legume crop grown in rain fed areas of hot desert regions of Thar, India, under scorching sun rays with very little supplementation of water. An SSH cDNA library was generated from leaf tissues of V. aconitifolia var. RMO-40 exposed to an elevated temperature of 42 °C for 5 min to identify early-induced genes. A total of 488 unigenes (114 contigs and 374 singletons) were derived by cluster assembly and sequence alignment of 738 ESTs; out of 206 ESTs (28%) of unknown proteins, 160 ESTs (14%) were found to be novel to moth bean. Only 578 ESTs (78%) showed significant BLASTX similarity (<1 × 10(-6)) in the NCBI non-redundant database. Gene ontology functional classification terms were retrieved for 479 (65%) sequences, and 339 sequences were annotated with 165 EC codes and mapped to 68 different KEGG pathways. Four hundred and fifty-two ESTs were further annotated with InterProScan (IPS), and no IPS was assigned to 153 ESTs. In addition, the expression level of 27 ESTs in response to heat stress was evaluated through semiquantitative RT-PCR assay. Approximately 20 different signaling genes and 16 different transcription factors have been shown to be associated with heat stress in moth bean for the first time.
Fetal malnutrition is an early-life inducer of dyslipidemia and glucose intolerance. The aim of this study was to examine whether maternal azuki bean (Vigna angularis) polyphenol (AP) intake during lactation affects the adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway and lipid metabolism in offspring exposed to fetal malnutrition. Pregnant Wistar rats were divided into three groups: a control diet offered during gestation and lactation (CC), a low-protein diet during gestation and a control diet during lactation (LPC); and a low-protein diet during gestation and a 1.0% AP-containing control diet during lactation (LPAP). Male pups were randomly selected for the study; half the pups were sacrificed at 3 wk of age and the other half were fed a standard diet and sacrificed at 23 wk. Hepatic triacylglycerol levels, phosphorylation levels of AMPK and acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (ACC), and mRNA levels of sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c) were evaluated. Significant decreases in body weights and hepatic triacylglycerol levels were found in the LPAP compared with the LPC group. Plasma adiponectin levels in the LPAP group were higher than those in the LPC group. AMPK phosphorylation was upregulated in the livers and skeletal muscles in young and adult LPAP compared with LPC rats. ACC phosphorylation was upregulated in skeletal muscles of LPAP rats. SREBP-1c mRNA expression was decreased in the livers of LPAP rats. Our results suggest that maternal AP intake during lactation upregulates AMPK phosphorylation not only in young but also in adult offspring exposed to fetal malnutrition and may lead to decreased hepatic lipid accumulation by ACC phosphorylation and downregulation of SREBP-1c expression.
A MADS box gene AGL20/SOC1 is a main integrator in Arabidopsis flowering pathway whose structure and function are highly conserved in many plant species. A soybean MADS box gene GmGAL1 (Glycine max AGAMOUS Like 1) as a homolog of AGL20/SOC1, was cloned from soybean cultivar Kennong18 and its function was investigated in transgenic Arabidopsis lines. Sequence comparisons showed that the closest homolog gene to GmGAL1 is AGL20/SOC1 in Arabidopsis and VuSOC1 in Vigna unguiculata. We investigated the expression level of GmGAL1 using quantitative real-time PCR, and the result showed that GmGAL1 was regulated by a circadian mechanism and its expression oscillated at a cycle of 24 h. The expression level of GmGAL1 was fluctuated in diverse tissues/organs and developmental stages. Considering its expression can be detected in different tissues throughout the life cycle and its protein localized in cytoplasm in Arabidopsis protoplasm, we proposed that GmGAL1 may be a multifunctional gene in the context of the soybean development. Ectopic expression of GmGAL1 in Arabidopsis enhanced flowering under long-day condition and partially rescued soc1 late flowering type.
The aim of the study was to evaluate factors associated with early withdrawal from oncogenetic counseling. A comparison of psycho-social and personality characteristics of two samples of subjects, attendees and withdrawers was carried out. Self-report questionnaires were completed by 112 individuals who had completed counseling and to 56 individuals who withdrew from it. Individuals with few children (OR. 1,724; p = 0,017; CI = 1,101-2,700), a lower number of cancer affected relatives (OR. 1,301; p = 0,000; CI = 1,145-1,479), and with a lower hypomanic scale score (OR. 1,070; p = 0,004; CI = 1,022-1,121), were more likely to withdraw from counseling. It is important for the counselees to draw more attention to the fact that their cancer risk management and prevention is as fundamental as that of their children. Also, it is important to highlight the fact that having less cancer affected relatives does not necessarily mean being at lower risk. In conclusion, that subjects with low levels of psychological and emotional energy are those who probably need greater psychological support during the decision making process. We deem necessary that psychologists, involved in genetic counseling, investigate these aspects during their sessions in order to implement suitable interventions of psychological support during the entire counseling process.
Currently, the acquisition of tissue from metastatic deposits is not recommended as a routine practice. Our aim was to evaluate the discordance rate of estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PgR), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) receptor status between primary tumor and liver metastases and its potential impact on treatment choice. We retrospectively analyzed a database including 1250 ultrasound-guided liver biopsies carried out at the European Institute of Oncology from August 1999 to March 2009. ER, PgR, and HER2 status were determined by immunohistochemistry and/or FISH. Differences between proportions were evaluated using Fisher's exact test. We identified 255 consecutive patients with matched primary and liver tissue samples. Changes in ER status were observed in 37 of 255 patients (14.5%). Changes in PgR status were observed in 124 of 255 patients (48.6%). Changes in HER2 status were observed in 24 of 172 assessable patients (13.9%). We observed a discordance in receptor status (ER, PgR, and HER2) between primary tumor and liver metastases, which led to change in therapy for 31 of 255 of patients (12.1%). Biopsy of metastases for reassessment of biological features should be considered in all patients, when safe and easy to carry out, since it is likely to impact treatment choice.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenous, noncoding, short RNAs directly involved in regulating gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. High conservation of miRNAs in plant provides the foundation for identification of new miRNAs in other plant species through homology alignment. Here, previous known plant miRNAs were BLASTed against the Expressed Sequence Tag (EST) and Genomic Survey Sequence (GSS) databases of Vigna unguiculata, and according to a series of filtering criteria, a total of 47 miRNAs belonging to 13 miRNA families were identified, and 30 potential target genes of them were subsequently predicted, most of which seemed to encode transcription factors or enzymes participating in regulation of development, growth, metabolism, and other physiological processes. Overall, our findings lay the foundation for further researches of miRNAs function in Vigna unguiculata.
PhyR is an unusual type of response regulator consisting of a receiver domain and an extracytoplasmic function (ECF) sigma factor-like domain. It was recently described as a master regulator of general stress response in Methylobacterium extorquens. Orthologues of this regulator are present in essentially all free-living Alphaproteobacteria. In most of them, phyR is genetically closely linked to a gene encoding an ECF sigma factor. Here, we investigate the role of these two regulators in the soybean symbiont Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110. Using deletion mutants and phenotypic assays, we showed that PhyR and the ECF sigma factor sigma(EcfG) are involved in heat shock and desiccation resistance upon carbon starvation. Both mutants had symbiotic defects on the plant hosts Glycine max (soybean) and Vigna radiata (mungbean). They induced fewer nodules than the wild type and these nodules were smaller, less pigmented, and their specific nitrogenase activity was drastically reduced 2 or 3 weeks after inoculation. Four weeks after infection, soybean nodule development caught up to a large extent whereas most mungbean nodules remained defective even 5 weeks after infection. Remarkably, both mutants triggered aberrant nodules on the different host plants with ectopically emerging roots. Microarray analysis revealed that PhyR and sigma(EcfG) control congruent regulons suggesting both regulators are part of the same signalling cascade. This finding was further substantiated by in vitro protein-protein interaction studies which are in line with a partner-switching mechanism controlling gene regulation triggered by phosphorylation of PhyR. The large number of genes of unknown function present in the PhyR/sigma(EcfG) regulon and the conspicuous symbiotic phenotype suggest that these regulators are involved in the Bradyrhizobium-legume interaction via yet undisclosed mechanisms.
Bacteria were isolated from the root nodules of Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper, grown in an arsenic-contaminated field and the strain was selected by its nodulation ability as well as better arsenic tolerant capacity compared to others. The selected strain was identified as Rhizobium by 16S rDNA sequencing and designated as VMA301. Phylogenetic analysis of the gene sequences showed its close relatedness with Sinorhizobium fredii. LC(50) value of arsenate for the bacteria as determined by flow cytometry was found to be 2.8 mM and arsenic uptake was measured by atomic absorption spectrometry as 0.048 mg g(-1) biomass. The high amount of arsenic was toxic to the cell, which changed the morphology of the bacteria to an elongated shape. Presence of a transcriptional regulatory gene (ArsR) of the ars genetic system was confirmed by amplification and sequencing. The symbiotic property of the isolate was also confirmed by amplification and sequencing of the NodC gene. These results indicate that the isolated Rhizobium bacteria may exert dual roles in the environment, arsenic bioremediation from the soil as well as increase of soil fertility through nitrogen fixation.
Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp., is one of the most important food and forage legumes in the semi-arid tropics because of its drought tolerance and ability to grow on poor quality soils. Approximately 80% of cowpea production takes place in the dry savannahs of tropical West and Central Africa, mostly by poor subsistence farmers. Despite its economic and social importance in the developing world, cowpea remains to a large extent an underexploited crop. Among the major goals of cowpea breeding and improvement programs is the stacking of desirable agronomic traits, such as disease and pest resistance and response to abiotic stresses. Implementation of marker-assisted selection and breeding programs is severely limited by a paucity of trait-linked markers and a general lack of information on gene structure and organization. With a nuclear genome size estimated at ~620 Mb, the cowpea genome is an ideal target for reduced representation sequencing. We report here the sequencing and analysis of the gene-rich, hypomethylated portion of the cowpea genome selectively cloned by methylation filtration (MF) technology. Over 250,000 gene-space sequence reads (GSRs) with an average length of 610 bp were generated, yielding ~160 Mb of sequence information. The GSRs were assembled, annotated by BLAST homology searches of four public protein annotation databases and four plant proteomes (A. thaliana, M. truncatula, O. sativa, and P. trichocarpa), and analyzed using various domain and gene modeling tools. A total of 41,260 GSR assemblies and singletons were annotated, of which 19,786 have unique GenBank accession numbers. Within the GSR dataset, 29% of the sequences were annotated using the Arabidopsis Gene Ontology (GO) with the largest categories of assigned function being catalytic activity and metabolic processes, groups that include the majority of cellular enzymes and components of amino acid, carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. A total of 5,888 GSRs had homology to genes encoding transcription factors (TFs) and transcription associated factors (TAFs) representing about 5% of the total annotated sequences in the dataset. Sixty-two (62) of the 64 well-characterized plant transcription factor (TF) gene families are represented in the cowpea GSRs, and these families are of similar size and phylogenetic organization to those characterized in other plants. The cowpea GSRs also provides a rich source of genes involved in photoperiodic control, symbiosis, and defense-related responses. Comparisons to available databases revealed that about 74% of cowpea ESTs and 70% of all legume ESTs were represented in the GSR dataset. As approximately 12% of all GSRs contain an identifiable simple-sequence repeat, the dataset is a powerful resource for the design of microsatellite markers. The availability of extensive publicly available genomic data for cowpea, a non-model legume with significant importance in the developing world, represents a significant step forward in legume research. Not only does the gene space sequence enable the detailed analysis of gene structure, gene family organization and phylogenetic relationships within cowpea, but it also facilitates the characterization of syntenic relationships with other cultivated and model legumes, and will contribute to determining patterns of chromosomal evolution in the Leguminosae. The micro and macrosyntenic relationships detected between cowpea and other cultivated and model legumes should simplify the identification of informative markers for marker-assisted trait selection and map-based gene isolation necessary for cowpea improvement.
Prior in vitro studies suggested that different types of hematopoietic stem cells may differentiate into cardiomyocytes. The present work examined whether human CD34(+) cells from the human umbilical cord blood (hUCB), cocultured with neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes, acquire the functional properties of myocardial cells and express human cardiac genes. hUCB CD34(+) cells were cocultured onto cardiomyocytes following an infection with a lentivirus-encoding enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). After 7 days, mononucleated EGFP(+) cells were tested for their electrophysiological features by patch clamp and for cytosolic [Ca(2+)] ([Ca(2+)](i)) homeostasis by [Ca(2+)](i) imaging of X-rhod1-loaded cells. Human Nkx2.5 and GATA-4 expression was examined in cocultured cell populations by real-time RT-PCR. EGFP(+) cells were connected to surrounding cells by gap junctions, acquired electrophysiological properties similar to those of cardiomyocytes, and showed action potential-associated [Ca(2+)](i) transients. These cells also exhibited spontaneous sarcoplasmic reticulum [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations and the associated membrane potential depolarization. However, RT-PCR of both cell populations showed no upregulation of human-specific cardiac genes. In conclusion, under our experimental conditions, hUCB CD34(+) cells cocultured with murine cardiomyocytes formed cells that exhibited excitation-contraction coupling features similar to those of cardiomyocytes. However, the expression of human-specific cardiac genes was undetectable by RT-PCR.
During cardiac development, the epicardium is the source of multipotent mesenchymal cells, which give rise to endothelial and smooth muscle cells in coronary vessels and also, possibly, to cardiomyocytes. The aim of the present study was to determine whether stem cells are retained in the adult human and murine epicardium and to investigate the regenerative potential of these cells following acute myocardial infarction. We show that c-kit(+) and CD34(+) cells can indeed be detected in human fetal and adult epicardium and that they represent 2 distinct populations. Both subsets of cells were negative for CD45, a cell surface marker that identifies the hematopoietic cell lineage. Immunofluorescence revealed that freshly isolated c-kit(+) and CD34(+) cells expressed early and late cardiac transcription factors and could acquire an endothelial phenotype in vitro. In the murine model of myocardial infarction, there was an increase in the absolute number and proliferation of epicardial c-kit(+) cells 3 days after coronary ligation; at this time point, epicardial c-kit(+) cells were identified in the subepicardial space and expressed GATA4. Furthermore, 1 week after myocardial infarction, cells coexpressing c-kit(+), together with endothelial or smooth muscle cell markers, were identified in the wall of subepicardial blood vessels. In summary, the postnatal epicardium contains a cell population with stem cell characteristics that retains the ability to give rise to myocardial precursors and vascular cells. These cells may play a role in the regenerative response to cardiac damage.
Phlox paniculata L., a perennial plant from the family Polemoniaceae, is cultivated as an ornamental in gardens and for cut-flower production. In spring 2003, two types of symptoms were observed in P. paniculata plants grown for cut flowers on a farm in the Var department, France. Some plants showed a mild leaf mosaic while others showed leaf browning and delayed growth. In plants showing mild mosaic, Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) was detected on the basis of the symptoms exhibited by a range of inoculated plants, the observation of isometric particles (approximately 30 nm) with the electron microscope in crude sap preparations from the infected plants, and the positive reaction in double-antibody sandwich (DAS)-ELISA to polyclonal antibodies raised against CMV (1). In double-immunodiffusion analysis, the five tested isolates were shown to belong to group II of CMV strains. To determine if CMV was responsible for the symptoms observed, one isolate was multiplied in Nicotiana tabacum cv. Xanthi-nc plants after isolation from local lesions on Vigna unguiculata and mechanically inoculated to 12 1-year-old P. paniculata plants. At 3 months post inoculation (mpi), all plants showed mild mosaic and CMV was detected by DAS-ELISA. In sap preparations from P. paniculata plants showing leaf browning symptoms, rod-shaped particles with two distinct sizes of 190 to 210 and 70 to 90 nm long, typical of those associated with tobraviruses, were revealed using electron microscopy. Local lesions typical of Tobacco rattle virus (TRV) were observed after inoculation of N. tabacum cv. Xanthi-nc, Chenopodium amaranticolor, and C. quinoa. Total nucleic acid preparations were prepared from symptomatic plants, and amplicons of the expected size (463 bp) were generated by reverse-transcription (RT)-PCR using primers specific to TRV RNA 1 (4). The nucleotide sequence of one amplicon was 93.6% identical to the sequence of a reference TRV isolate (GenBank Accession No. AJ586803). Twelve 1-year-old P. paniculata plants were mechanically inoculated with an extract of infected tissues from one symptomatic P. paniculata plant. TRV was detected 2 to 6 mpi in apical leaves of all inoculated plants by RT-PCR, although the plants did not express symptoms. Since no other pathogens were detected in the source plants, it is plausible that the lack of symptoms in back-inoculated plants is either due to a long incubation period or an interaction with particular environmental factors such as cold conditions. The survey of approximately 200 plants revealed that approximately 7, 10, and 1% were infected by TRV, CMV, or by both viruses, respectively. CMV and TRV were previously detected in P. paniculata in Latvian SSR and in Lithuania (2,3). These results show that sanitary selection of P. paniculata prior to vegetative propagation should include a screening for TRV and CMV infections. References: (1) J.-C. Devergne et al. Ann. Phytopathol. 10:233, 1978. (2) Y. Ignab and A. Putnaergle. Tr. Latv. S.-Kh. Akad. 118:27, 1977. (3) M. Navalinskiene and M. Samuitiene. Biologija 1:52, 1996. (4) D. J. Robinson. J. Virol. Methods 40:57, 1992.
Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna (MYMV-Vig) is a bipartite geminivirus that causes a severe yellow mosaic disease in blackgram. An assay was developed to study MYMV-Vig replication by agroinoculation of tobacco leaf discs with partial dimers of the virus. This assay, in a non-host model plant, was used to evaluate pathogen-derived resistance contributed by MYMV-Vig genes in transgenic plants. Viral DNA accumulation was optimum in tobacco leaf discs cultured for 10 days after infection with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain Ach5 containing partial dimers of both DNA A and DNA B of MYMV-Vig. Transgenic tobacco plants with MYMV-Vig genes for coat protein (CP), replication-associated protein (Rep)-sense, Rep-antisense, truncated Rep (T-Rep), nuclear shuttle protein (NSP) and movement protein (MP) were generated. Leaf discs from transgenic tobacco plants, harbouring MYMV-Vig genes, were agroinoculated with partial dimers of MYMV-Vig and analyzed for viral DNA accumulation. The leaf discs from transgenic tobacco plants harbouring CP and MP genes supported the accumulation of higher levels of MYMV-Vig DNA. However, MYMV-Vig accumulation was inhibited in one transgenic plant harbouring the Rep-sense gene and in two plants harbouring the T-Rep gene. Northern analysis of these plants revealed a good correlation between expression of Rep or T-Rep genes and inhibition of MYMV-Vig accumulation.
Flavonoids secreted by host plants activate, in conjunction with the transcriptional activator NodD, nod gene expression of rhizobia resulting in the synthesis of Nod factors, which trigger nodule organogenesis. Interestingly, addition of inducing flavonoids also stimulates the production of the phytohormone indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) in several rhizobia. Here, the molecular basis of IAA synthesis in Rhizobium sp. NGR234 was investigated. Mass spectrometric analysis of culture supernatants indicated that NGR234 is capable of synthesizing IAA via three different pathways. The production of IAA is increased strongly by exposure of NGR234 to daidzein in a NodD1-, NodD2-, and SyrM2-dependent manner. This suggests that the y4wEFG locus that is downstream of nod-box NB15 encodes proteins involved in IAA synthesis. Knockout mutations in y4wE and y4wF abolished flavonoid-inducible IAA synthesis and a functional y4wF was required for constitutive IAA production. The promoter activity of NB15 and IAA production both were enhanced by introduction of a multicopy plasmid carrying nodD2 into NGR234. Surprisingly, the y4wE mutant still nodulated Vigna unguiculata and Tephrosia vogelii, although the nodules contained less IAA and IAA conjugates than those formed by the wild-type bacterium.
We have investigated in Sinorhizobium fredii HH103-1 (=HH103 Str(r)) the influence of the nolR gene on the production of three different bacterial symbiotic signals: Nod factors, signal responsive (SR) proteins, and exopolysaccharide (EPS). The presence of multiple copies of nolR (in plasmid pMUS675) repressed the transcription of all the flavonoid-inducible genes analyzed: nodA, nodD1, nolO, nolX, noeL, rhcJ, hesB, and y4pF. Inactivation of nolR (mutant SVQ517) or its overexpression (presence of pMUS675) altered the amount of Nod factors detected. Mutant SVQ517 produced Nod factors carrying N-methyl residues at the nonreducing N-acetyl-glucosamine, which never have been detected in S. fredii HH103. Plasmid pMUS675 increased the amounts of EPS produced by HH103-1 and SVQ517. The flavonoid genistein repressed EPS production of HH103-1 and SVQ517 but the presence of pMUS675 reduced this repression. The presence of plasmid pMUS675 clearly decreased the secretion of SR proteins. Inactivation, or overexpression, of nolR decreased the capacity of HH103 to nodulate Glycine max. However, HH103-1 and SVQ517 carrying plasmid pMUS675 showed enhanced nodulation capacity with Vigna unguiculata. The nolR gene was positively identified in all S. fredii strains investigated, S. xinjiangense CCBAU110, and S. saheli USDA4102. Apparently, S. teranga USDA4101 does not contain this gene.
ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3 (EIN3) is a transcription factor involved in the ethylene signal transduction pathway in Arabidopsis. Two full-length cDNA clones, pVR-EIL1 and pVR-EIL2, encoding EIN3-LIKE proteins were isolated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and by screening the cDNA library of mung bean (Vigna radiata) hypocotyls. VR-EIL1 and VR-EIL2 share 70% identity and display varying degrees of sequence conservation (39%-65%) with previously isolated EIN3 homologs from Arabidopsis, tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) plants. Gel retardation assay revealed that both VR-EILs were able to interact specifically with optimal binding sequence-1, the recently identified optimal binding sequence for tobacco TEIL, with the binding of VR-EIL2 being more efficient than that of VR-EIL1. Transient expression analysis using a VR-EIL::smGFP fusion gene in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells indicated that the VR-EIL proteins were effectively targeted to the nucleus. The fusion protein of VR-EIL2 with GAL4 DNA-binding domain strongly activated transcription of a reporter gene in yeast cells, and an essential domain for transcription-stimulating activity was localized to the amino-terminal acidic region that consists of 50 amino acid residues. In contrast with what has been previously found in EIN3- and TEIL-overexpressing Arabidopsis plants, transgenic tobacco seedlings expressing the VR-EIL genes under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter did not exhibit a constitutive triple response. Instead, they displayed a markedly enhanced proliferation of root hairs, one of the typical ethylene response phenotypes, and increased sensitivity to exogenous ethylene. In addition, the pathogenesis-related (PR) genes encoding beta-1,3-glucanase, osmotin, and PR1 were constitutively expressed in 35S::VR-EIL lines without added ethylene, and were hyperinduced in response to ethylene treatment. These results indicate that VR-EILs are functional in tobacco cells, thereby effectively transactivating the GCC-box-containing PR genes and enhancing sensitivity to ethylene. The possible physiological role of VR-EILs is discussed in the light of the suggestion that they are active components of the ethylene-signaling pathway and their heterologous expressions constitutively turn on a subset of ethylene responses in tobacco plants.
Seven legume extracts containing phytoestrogens were analyzed for estrogenic activity. Methanol extracts were prepared from soybean (Glycine max L.), green bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), alfalfa sprout (Medicago sativa L.), mung bean sprout (Vigna radiata L.), kudzu root (Pueraria lobata L.), and red clover blossom and red clover sprout (Trifolium pratense L.). Extracts of kudzu root and red clover blossom showed significant competitive binding to estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta). Estrogenic activity was determined using an estrogen-dependent MCF-7 breast cancer cell proliferation assay. Kudzu root, red clover blossom and sprout, mung bean sprout, and alfalfa sprout extracts displayed increased cell proliferation above levels observed with estradiol. The pure estrogen antagonist, ICI 182,780, suppressed cell proliferation induced by the extracts, suggesting an ER-related signaling pathway was involved. The ER subtype-selective activities of legume extracts were examined using transiently transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK 293) cells. All seven of the extracts exhibited preferential agonist activity toward ERbeta. Using HPLC to collect fractions and MCF-7 cell proliferation, the active components in kudzu root extract were determined to be the isoflavones puerarin, daidzin, genistin, daidzein, and genistein. These results show that several legumes are a source of phytoestrogens with high levels of estrogenic activity.
The ornithine transaminase (otaA) gene of Aspergillus nidulans has been cloned by transformation of the A. nidulans pro-ota- mutant strain with a cosmid gene library. The otaA gene contains two introns and potentially codes for a 453-aa-long protein. The deduced amino-acid sequence is homologous to known ornithine transaminases from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Plasmodium falciparum, Vigna aconitifolia, rat, mouse and man, particularly in the pyridoxal phosphate-binding domain. The expression of the otaA gene is specifically induced by arginine, and is also under the control of nitrogen-metabolite and carbon-catabolite repression. Regulation of the gene occurs at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. The promoter region of otaA contains putative AREA and CREA binding-sites. Fusion proteins containing AREA or CREA DNA-binding domains bind some of these sites. CREA binding-sites correspond very well to the CREA-binding consensus sequence which is SYGGRG. AREA binding-sites are composed of GATT sequences which are not typical binding sites for the GATA - binding family of transcription factors.
Transcriptional regulators of the lysR family largely control the expression of bacterial symbiotic genes. Rhizobium sp. NGR234 contains at least four members of this family: two resemble nodD, while two others are more closely related to syrM. Part of the extremely broad host range of NGR234 can be attributed to nodD1, although the second gene shares a high degree of DNA sequence homology with nodD2 of R. fredii USDA191. A nodD2 mutant of NGR234 was constructed by insertional mutagenesis. This mutant (NGR omega nodD2) was deficient in nitrogen fixation on Vigna unguiculata and induced pseudonodules on Tephrosia vogelii. Several other host plants were tested, but no correlation could be drawn between the phenotype and nodule morphology. Moreover, nodD2 has a negative effect on the production of Nod factors: mutation of this gene results in a fivefold increase in Nod factor production. Surprisingly, while the structure of Nod factors from free-living cultures of NGR omega nodD2 remained unchanged, those from V. unguiculata nodules induced by the same strain are non-fucosylated and have a lower degree of oligomerization. In other words, developmental regulation of Nod factor production is also abolished in this mutant. Competitive RNA hybridizations, gene fusions and mobility shift assays confirmed that nodD2 downregulates expression of the nodABC operon.
Three cDNAs (ext3, ext127, and ext26), originally isolated by differential screening from a root-hair cDNA library of Vigna unguiculata, were found to encode extensin-like cell wall proteins. Transcripts homologous to these cDNAs were only detected in root hairs where mRNA levels decreased 1 day after inoculation with rhizobia. This coincided with the onset of root-hair deformation, the first morphological step in the Rhizobium-legume interaction. Decreases in transcript levels following inoculation with wild-type Rhizobium sp. NGR234 were more pronounced than with NGR delta nodABC, a mutant deficient in Nod-factor production. Inoculation with a rhizobial strain carrying a mutation in a gene encoding a transcriptional activator for nod genes (NGR delta nodD1) did not repress mRNA levels, indicating that a second nodulation signal may be present that is nodD dependent. Application of purified NodNGR factors only affected transcript levels of ext3. The genomic locus of the gene homologous to ext26 (Ext26G) was cloned. In the 5' flanking region, several potential TATA boxes and CAP signals were identified. Part of the promoter region shares homology with the Pisum sativum seed lectin promoter and the Nicotiana tabacum nitrate reductase promoter region. Nonetheless, the function of these homologous regions in gene regulation is unknown.
The common nodulation locus and closely linked nodulation genes of Bradyrhizobium (Arachis) sp. strain NC92 have been isolated on an 11.0-kb EcoRI restriction fragment. The nucleotide sequence of a 7.0-kb EcoRV-EcoRI subclone was determined and found to contain open reading frames (ORFs) homologous to the nodA, nodB, nodD1, nodD2, and nolA genes of Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Bradyrhizobium elkanii. Nodulation assays of nodD1, nodD2, or nolA deletion mutants on the host plants Macroptilium atropurpureum (siratro) and Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) indicate that nolA is required for efficient nodulation, as nolA mutants exhibit a 6-day nodulation delay and reduced nodule numbers. The nolA phenotype was complemented by providing the nolA ORF in trans, indicating that the phenotype is due to the lack of the nolA ORF. nodD1 mutants displayed a 2-day nodulation delay, whereas nodD2 strains were indistinguishable from the wild type. Translational nodA-lacZ, nodD1-lacZ, nodD2-lacZ, and nolA-lacZ fusions were created. Expression of the nodA-lacZ fusion was induced by the addition of peanut, cowpea, and siratro seed exudates and by the addition of the isoflavonoids genistein and daidzein. In a nodD1 or nodD2 background, basal expression of the nodA-lacZ fusion increased two- to threefold. The level of expression of the nodD2-lacZ and nolA-lacZ fusions was low in the wild type but increased in nodD1, nodD2, and nodD1 nodD2 backgrounds independently of the addition of the inducer genistein. nolA was required for increased expression of the nodD2-lacZ fusion. These data suggest that a common factor is involved in the regulation of nodD2 and nolA, and they are also consistent with a model of nod gene expression in Bradyrhizobium (Arachis) sp. strain NC92 in which negative regulation is mediated by the products of the nodD1 and nodD2 genes.
Genetic changes in the development of endometrial carcinoma have not been characterized, and little is known of tumor or metastatic suppressor gene status in these malignancies. The current study on endometrioid carcinoma was undertaken to examine the status of two tumor suppressor genes that frequently have been found to be altered in human malignancies (the p53 gene and the retinoblastoma [Rb] gene) and to examine the status of the candidate metastatic suppressor gene, nm23-H1. The status of the p53 gene was studied by immunohistochemistry of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded biopsy samples from 72 patients with atypical endometrial hyperplasia or endometrioid carcinoma who underwent hysterectomy immediately after biopsy and from 5 patients with benign endometria. A search for loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the nm23 gene after DNA extraction from frozen tissues and hybridization with nm23-H1 cDNA specific probe was made in 10 endometrial carcinomas. Rb gene status was evaluated by image analysis quantification of immunoreactive retinoblastoma protein in frozen sections of 10 carcinomas and 2 benign endometria. p53 expression was low in all benign endometria, but high expression was found in 2 (15%) of 13 atypical hyperplasias and in 23 (39%) of 59 carcinomas. High levels of p53 expression in endometrioid carcinoma correlated with the spread of disease outside of the uterus and by logistic regression, the presence of squamous differentiation, nuclear grade, and high p53 expression in the biopsy all independently correlated with spread of disease outside of the uterus. Although 7 of the 10 carcinomas studied were informative, LOH for the nm23 gene was not seen in any, including a site of metastasis. Rb protein expression in endometrial carcinoma was similar to expression in benign endometria. Although this study found no evidence of nm23-H1 gene alteration or alterations in Rb protein levels in endometrial carcinoma, high expression of p53 protein was sporadically identified in biopsy specimens of atypical hyperplasia and frequently found in endometrioid carcinomas. Determination of p53 expression in combination with the presence or absence of squamous differentiation and nuclear grade in biopsy material may help predict spread of endometrioid carcinoma outside the uterus and facilitate therapeutic planning before hysterectomy.
We report the nucleotide sequence of the rpoN gene from broad-host-range Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 and analyze the encoded RPON protein, a sigma factor. Comparative analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence of RPON from NGR234 with sequences from other gram-negative bacteria identified a perfectly conserved RPON box unique to RPON sigma factors. Symbiotic regulatory phenotypes were defined for a site-directed internal deletion within the coding sequence of the rpoN gene of Rhizobium strain NGR234: they included quantitative nodulation kinetics on Vigna unguiculata and microscopic analysis of the Fix- determinate nodules of V. unguiculata and Macroptilium atropurpureum. RPON was a primary coregulator of nodulation and was implicated in establishment or maintenance of the plant-synthesized peribacteroid membrane. Phenotypes of rpoN in Rhizobium strain NGR234 could be grouped as symbiosis related, rather than simply pleiotropically physiological as in free-living bacteria such as Klebsiella pneumoniae and Pseudomonas putida.
Bradyrhizobium japonicum is the root nodule endosymbiont of soybean (Glycine max), mung bean (Vigna radiata), cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), and Siratro (Macroptilium atropurpureum). We report the characteristics of a nodulation-gene region of B. japonicum that contributes only marginally to the bacterium's ability to nodulate soybean but is essential for the nodulation of the three alternative hosts. This DNA region consists of two open reading frames designated nodV and nodW. The predicted amino acid sequences of the NodV and NodW proteins suggest that they are members of the family of two-component regulatory systems, which supports the hypothesis that NodV responds to an environmental stimulus and, after signal transduction, NodW may be required to positively regulate the transcription of one or several unknown genes involved in the nodulation process. It seems likely that all host plants produce the necessary signal, whereas host specificity may be brought about by the product(s) of the gene(s) activated by NodW.
The TCP gene family encodes plant-specific transcription factors that regulate plant growth, development, and stress responses. Although this gene family has been widely studied in various species, its function in mung bean (
Mungbean (Vigna radiata L.) is one of the most important yet genomically under-researched leguminous food crop. Its productivity is low due to the complex nature of yield realization, which is regulated by various yield-contributing traits. Thus, understanding the genetic basis of these traits is essential for developing an ideal genotype with high yield. In this study, mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) was conducted for six yield-contributing traits using a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population (166 number), developed by crossing two contrasting genotypes (Pusa Baisakhi × PMR-1). The genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) of RILs was used to construct the genetic map using 1347 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs). The QTL mapping using multiple interval mapping (MIM) and composite interval mapping (CIM) has identified 17 yield contributing QTLs of which, 4 for number of leaves/plant (NL), 3 for plant height (PH), 2 for SPAD value, 3 for 100 seed weight (SW), 2 for number of pods/plant (NP), and 3 for total grain yield (GY). The Logarithm of Odds (LOD) scores for these QTLs ranged from ~ 3-9, while phenotypic variance explained (PVE) ranged from ~ 9-24%. Several candidate genes with mRNA expression and protein-altering mutations were identified as having a direct role in key processes like growth (LOC106756212, LOC106776425, LOC106777991), flowering (LOC106777903, LOC106768860), metabolism (LOC106757749, LOC106758189), etc. The candidate genes are validated through digital gene expression analysis. In addition, Insertion-Deletion (InDel) markers were also developed for the identified QTLs which hold broad applications for the improvement of yield-related traits in mungbean.
Mungbean is one of the most economically important grain legume crops in Asia. Functional genomics studies in mungbean are necessary to understand the molecular mechanisms behind agronomic traits, to advance the crop improvement. However, this progress is significantly impeded by the absence of effective and extensive genetic analysis tools. Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated hairy root transformation has become a powerful tool for studying gene function and an efficient alternative for investigating root-specific interactions and processes in different species, due to its quick and simple methodology. Agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation, however, is known to be difficult in legumes, especially in mungbean. In this report, we developed an Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated mungbean transformation system using both in-vitro and ex-vitro approaches, with RUBY employed as a reporter gene. We optimized various parameters, including mungbean genotypes, explant age, optical density of the bacterial culture, co-cultivation medium, and acetosyringone concentration. Our findings indicated that in-vitro transformation was more efficient than ex-vitro in terms of hairy root induction percentage and the proportion of transformed hairy roots expressing the RUBY reporter gene. However, the ex-vitro transformation technique was faster and less complex than the in-vitro method. The highest transformation efficiency for RUBY expression was achieved using 5-day-old cotyledonary nodal explants of cv. K-851, inoculated for 30 min with A4 Agrobacterium cells resuspended in full-strength MS medium at an OD₆₀₀ of 0.5 and supplemented with 100 µM acetosyringone. A total of 60 composite plants were generated and evaluated through PCR, resulting in a transformation efficiency of 6.13%. These optimized parameters also led to the highest percentage of RUBY expression using the two-step ex-vitro hairy root transformation method. We have developed a simple, rapid, low-cost, and labor-efficient Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated mungbean transformation protocol using both in-vitro and ex-vitro approaches, with RUBY as a reporter gene. This method enables the generation of composite mungbean plants that are easier to handle, exhibit higher transformation efficiency, and can be effectively used for root specific functional genomics studies. We expect this technology to be widely adopted for investigating root-related processes in mungbean and other plant species.
Cadmium is one of the most toxic heavy metal pollutants in the world, seriously affecting crop growth and human health. 2,4-Epibrassinolide (BRs) has been proven to promote plant growth, enhance abiotic stress resistance and improve crop quality and yield. In this study, adzuki bean (V. angularis) cultivar 'Zhen Zhuhong' was grown hydroponically in 1/2 Hoagland nutrient solution with 0, 1, and 2 mg L
The bean flower thrips, Megalurothrips usitatus (Bagnall), has caused significant damage to leguminous crops in the Asian tropics and established populations in North America. Ineffective pest control has been reported in multiple regions, raising concerns about food safety risks due to improper insecticide use. To evaluate insecticide susceptibility and the role of detoxification enzyme involvement, resistance monitoring and enzyme activity assays were conducted. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) techniques validated key gene functions. Results showed that the XW population was resistant to five insecticides, with resistance ratios ranging from 7.17 to 42.90 compared to the reference population. The NJ and YZ populations showed resistance to two and one insecticide, respectively, while the HP population was most susceptible. Elevated cytochrome P450s (CYP450), UDP-glycosyltransferases, and acetylcholinesterases activities were observed in the YZ population. Three CYP450 genes positively correlated with CYP450 activity. Carboxylesterases (CarE) activity was the highest in the XW population, with MusiPT_006325 positively correlated and MusiPT_006095/MusiPT_003750 negatively correlated with CarE activity. Glutathione-S-transferase activity was the highest in the HP population. WGCNA revealed positive correlations between MEblue, MEturquoise, and MEbrown modules and acetamiprid/ novaluron median lethal concentration (LC
The developmental control of plant reproduction is often related to the activity of methylation-dependent pathways that play an essential role in genome integrity and the transgenerational establishment of epigenetic marks. Cytogenetic analysis and in situ patterns of protein expression are crucial to accurately establish the function and mode of action of genes involved in the epigenetic control of female meiosis and gametogenesis. Here, we describe a whole mount propidium iodine staining and immunolocalization procedures to study the role of proteins involved in RNA-directed DNA methylation during the development of ovules in Vigna unguiculata (cowpea). The procedure can be easily adapted to develop ovules of other legumes such as common bean and scarlet runner bean.
Subtilisin-like serine proteases (SBTs) are serine proteolytic enzymes that play various roles in plant growth, function and stress responses. Vigna glabrescens, a wild relative of mungbean known to be a potential donor of photo- and thermoperiod insensitivity, was characterized for thermotolerance through reproductive biology and gene expression profiling. Whole-genome sequencing of this species has not yet been performed; hence, genome-wide analysis of this species has not been explored. In the present study, a systematic analysis of SBT-encoding genes in the V. radiata (Vradi_SBT) genome was conducted, with a focus on their response during flower development under different temperature regimes, such as optimum temperature, heat and cold stresses, in Vigna radiata and a wild relative, Vigna glabrescens. Thirty-eight Vradi_SBT genes were identified in the V. radiata genome and were further grouped into five distinct subgroups. The key domain of the SBT peptidase, "peptidase_S8_53," was found in all 38 Vradi_SBT proteins, while 28 of them contained the "peptidase_S8" domain. Additionally, 30 of these proteins contained a maximum of 10 motifs. A total of 22 orthologous genes were identified in Arabidopsis thaliana, whereas paralogous gene pairs were detected as tandemly duplicated genes with V. unguiculata. Cis-acting element analysis revealed that these genes presented more stress-responsive promoter sequences than the other promoters. Furthermore, Vradi_SBT-1.9 was found significantly upregulated under both high- and low-temperature stresses. This study provides insights into SBT-encoding genes and their possible role in flower development and thermotolerance in Vigna species.
Mungbean ( Here, we screened six genotypes with consistently high and low content of major secondary metabolites (gallic acid, chlorogenic acid, neo-chlorogenic acid, genistin, formononetin, catechin, syringic acid, and resveratrol) across environmental replicates. Transcriptome data obtained from the individual genotypes were pooled into two groups: high and low levels of secondary metabolites. Of the 200 differentially expressed genes identified using stringent criteria, 23 were annotated in the secondary metabolite pathway. By combining the results of the secondary metabolite and transcriptome data, we identified six key genes encoding four enzymes ( These results provide information on the common genetic factors involved in the production of secondary metabolites, which can improve the nutritional value of mungbeans and contribute to the development of elite mungbean cultivars.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) rust, caused by the fungus Uromyces vignae, is an important disease affecting adzuki bean yield and quality. Previously, several NAC transcription factors (TFs) were induced by rust infection in a resistant adzuki bean variety, suggesting that NAC TF members may play important roles in rust resistance. To further explore the functions of NAC TFs in rust resistance and to provide a reference for resistant varietal breeding, 101 NAC TFs were identified from the adzuki bean genome. The synteny analysis revealed 25 pairs of VaNACs in the genome, which exhibited whole-genome/segmental duplication. Based on the phylogenetic relationships and conserved motif characteristics, the NAC TFs of V. angularis can be divided into 16 subfamilies. Previous transcriptome data showed that nine VaNACs are significantly induced by rust infection. Here, a cis-acting element analysis of these nine genes revealed that most contain hormone responsive elements, such as abscisic acid and methyl jasmonate (MeJA). The expression levels of these nine VaNACs were dynamically regulated in response to exogenous MeJA treatment, as revealed by quantitative real-time PCR analysis. Among them, seven VaNACs exhibited significantly upregulated expression, peaking at 12 h post treatment (hpt) and remaining significantly higher than that of the untreated control group for 48 hpt. These results suggest that these VaNACs are responsive to MeJA signaling and may play roles in the early and sustained transcriptional regulation of stress-related pathways. The exogenous MeJA decreased rust severity on adzuki bean leaves by 45.68%. Additionally, the expression levels of these nine genes in adzuki bean leaves in response to rust infection after pretreatment with MeJA were investigated. The expression of VaNAC002 rapidly peaked at 24 h post inoculation (hpi) and remained significantly higher than the control from 120 to 192 hpi. Subsequently, transient overexpression of VaNAC002 significantly enhanced the resistance of tobacco to Botrytis cinerea, indicating that VaNAC002 positively regulates plant disease resistance. These findings suggest that adzuki bean NAC family members may play important roles in disease resistance through JA signaling, with VaNAC002 having a positive regulatory role in plant immunity.
Soil salinity is one of the most severe impacts of climate change, negatively affecting plant growth and development. Seed germination and seedling emergence are among the most critical stages susceptible to salt stress, making it important to explore them to identify the most resilient accessions for crop yield improvement. Cowpea (
The transition from vegetative to floral development is a critical process regulated by a variety of complex internal and external factors. This study aims to characterize the Flowering Locus D (FLD) gene in relation to the floral induction pathway and examine its expression profiles under different photoperiodic conditions in Indian bean (Lablab purpureus (L.) Sweet). The LprFLD gene was PCR-amplified and sequenced using gene-specific primers for both photosensitive (GNIB-22, GP-189) and photoinsensitive (GNIB-21) varieties of Indian bean. Exon prediction, phylogenetic analysis, and in silico domain prediction were performed, followed by gene expression analysis using qRT-PCR for contrasting phenotypes. The complete LprFLD gene sequence was characterized, containing five exons and showing significant similarity to GmFLD and VuFLD. Phylogenetic analysis of FLD homologs from 27 taxa revealed the closest evolutionary relationships among members of the Phaseoleae tribe, including Lablab purpureus, Vignaumbellata, Vigna angularis, Vignaradiata, Vigna unguiculata, Phaseolus vulgaris, Glycine max, Glycinesoja, and Cajanus cajan. In silico domain prediction identified two conserved domains, SWIRM and amino oxidase, in the FLD homologs of Indian bean, soybean, cowpea, Arabidopsis and rice. Gene expression analysis showed that the relative expression of LprFLD in trifoliate leaves corresponded with flowering in both photosensitive and photoinsensitive genotypes under long-day conditions. Overall, the expression level of LprFLD was lower in trifoliate leaves and shoot tips. This is the first report on the characterization of the LprFLD locus in Indian bean. Phylogenetic analysis confirmed its close evolutionary relationship with other Phaseoleae species. qRT-PCR results suggest that the elevated expression of LprFLD in trifoliate leaves coincides with flowering time in both photosensitive and photoinsensitive genotypes under long-day conditions, indicating that other loci may also regulate floral transition under varying photoperiods in Indian bean.
n-Propyl gallate (PG) is a phenolic compound that influences enzymatic processes, mostly involving AOX, PTOX, LOX, POD, and PPO. Here, analyses of different PG concentrations (1, 2.5, and 5 mM) during cowpea seed germination at 16, 32, and 48h showed that 2.5 mM PG partially inhibited seed germination at 16 and/or 32h, but by 48h the germination re-established. Thus, this PG concentration was chosen to study the molecular and biochemical mechanisms linked to the PG inhibitory effects and germination recovery. PG inhibition was related to lower H
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is an important protein source in Sub-Saharan Africa. Optimizing resilience and productivity through genetic engineering in cowpea has been slow due in part to a lack of defined species-specific regulatory elements and difficulty testing gene function within the native system. In many plant species, Agrobacterium-mediated transient gene expression is widely used to validate constructs before investing in transgenic lines, but its implementation in legumes has been challenging. In this study, we optimized an in planta agroinfiltration assay in trifoliate cowpea leaves using a betalain reporter. To demonstrate the "intact plant" aspect of this system, we used this assay to characterize drought-inducible promoters by challenging cowpea plants with drought stress. Subsequently, to identify and broaden the pool of native promoters known in cowpea, we developed a user-friendly web application, CowPEAsy, allowing users to interrogate gene expression from our canopy-level, developmental-series RNA-Seq data set. Finally, using CowPEAsy, we identified six promoters that showed constitutive expression across all conditions and verified these promoters with our transient system. This work provides an in vivo platform for preliminary validation of regulatory elements in cowpea and other legumes and enhances current genetic resources by identifying a suite of physiologically relevant promoters of varying strengths.
The extent of viral infection significantly shapes disease susceptibility. Yellow mosaic disease induced by the begomovirus pathogen mungbean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV), revealed varying infection levels in both compatible and incompatible interactions across three distinct The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-025-01547-9.
Long-term cadmium (Cd) exposure inhibits plant growth and development, reduces crop yield and quality, and threatens food security. Exploring the Cd tolerance mechanisms and safe production of crops in Cd-contaminated environment has become a worldwide concern. In this study, mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) cultivar Sulu (SL) and its three mutant lines (20#, 09#, and 06#) were used to compare the difference in Cd absorption, accumulation, and tolerance through pot and field experiments. 20#, 09#, and 06# are Cd-tolerant germplasms of mung bean but exist in different Cd tolerance mechanisms, 20# exhibited the lowest Cd absorption capacity, 09# possessed lower Cd translocation capacity, while 06# accumulated more Cd in protoplasts. Mung bean germplasms with higher Cd tolerance generally showed lower absorption capacity and intracellular accumulation of Cd. Besides, Cd accumulation in mung bean seeds is mainly depended on the absorption and translocation of Cd in roots and the Cd concentration in leaves, exogenous Mn supply inhibited the Cd
Vigna marina (Barm.) Merr. is adapted to tropical marine beaches and has an outstanding tolerance to salt stress. Given there are growing demands for cultivating crops in saline soil or with saline water, it is important to understand how halophytic species are adapted to the saline environments. Here we revealed by positron-emitting tracer imaging system (PETIS) that V. marina actively excretes sodium from the root during the light period but not the dark period. The following whole genome sequencing accompanied with forward genetic study identified a QTL region harbouring SOS1, encoding plasma membrane Na
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a heterogeneous disease, with MM patients experiencing different clinical outcomes depending on the disease's biological features. Novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of MM have led to the introduction of sophisticated drugs, which dramatically improved patient treatment and survival. To date, young patients with newly diagnosed MM could experience a median overall survival (OS) of 10 years. Nevertheless, a small proportion of patients still undergoes early disease progression and death. Indeed, cases defined as ultra-high-risk MM (uHRMM) and high-risk MM (HRMM) are destined for a worse outcome, with an OS of 2-3 and 3-5 years, respectively. In this regard, current risk stratification systems failed to identify this subset of patients better. The application of existing risk models has led to the identification of extremely heterogeneous categories of patients, and they have not taken into account biological and clinical differences. The concept of HRMM was initially formalised in 2015. Since then, a great effort has been made to identify those parameters whose presence pone MM patients at higher risk of developing an early relapse. The simultaneous presence of 2 or more unfavourable cytogenetic abnormalities, the identification of an extramedullary disease or the detection of circulating plasma cells, as well as high-risk gene expression profiling (GEP) signature, have shown to be well related to a worse outcome and are going to be incorporated into new prognostic systems. The introduction of the Individualised Risk Model for Multiple Myeloma (IRMMa) marks a significant advancement in the management of HRMM by integrating genomic and clinical data to tailor treatment strategies. This model demonstrates improved prognostic accuracy compared to traditional staging systems and emphasises the importance of personalised treatment approaches. The implementation of these advanced tools is essential for enhancing precision medicine in MM and improving outcomes for patients in high-risk categories.
Polyphenols represent a new strategy of dietary intervention for heat stress regulation. The metabolic and genetic effects of three heat stress-regulated mung bean polyphenols on mouse small intestinal epithelial Mode-k cells were investigated by metabolomics-transcriptomics correlation analysis at different heat stress levels. Lipid metabolism, energy metabolism, and nervous system pathways were the key metabolic regulatory pathways. Under the heat stresses of 39 °C, 41 °C, and 43 °C, the key pathways regulated by mung bean polyphenols on intestinal epithelial Mode-k cells were choline metabolism, pyrimidine metabolism, and the retrograde endorphin signalling pathway in cancer, respectively. FoxO, Rap1, and PI3K-Akt signalling pathways were the key environmental regulatory signalling pathways. Mung bean polyphenols can alleviate heat stress-induced cells at 39 °C by inhibiting cell apoptosis and promoting lipid and amino acid accumulation. Mung bean polyphenols can alleviate the threat of cell death caused by heat stress at 41 °C by regulating heat shock proteins, inhibiting mitochondrial function and some nerve disease-related genes. The threat of cell death by heat stress at 43 °C can be alleviated by regulating nerve-related genes. This study confirmed that mung bean polyphenols can regulate heat stress. The results provide a reference for analysing the mechanism of dietary polyphenol regulating heat stress.
Several mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) cultivars are susceptible to Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by Cercospora canescens Ellis & Martin, and it is necessary to explore resistance sources and understand resistance mechanisms. However, the CLS resistance mechanisms have not yet been explored. The response to CLS revealed significantly different disease severity scores in both mungbean genotypes. Hypersensitive response (HR) started to appear at 2 days after inoculation (DAI) in SUPER5 but was never observed in CN84-1. SUPER5 exhibited fewer and smaller lesions than CN84-1 during CLS infection, resulting in SUPER5 being resistant while CN84-1 was susceptible to CLS. In this study, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis was used to unravel the mechanisms of resistance to CLS in a resistant line (SUPER5) and a susceptible variety (CN84-1) upon CLS infection. A total of 9510 DEGs including 4615 up-regulated and 4895 down-regulated genes were revealed. Of these 3242 and 1027 genes were uniquely up-regulated only in the SUPER5 and CN84-1, respectively, while 2902 and 734 genes were down-regulated only in SUPER5 and CN84-1, respectively. The 843 DEGs were enriched in biological processes mainly associated with plant defense responses, defense response to fungus, protein phosphorylation and response to chitin in Gene Ontology (GO) terms analysis. KEGG pathway analysis showed that these genes were represented in plant-pathogen interaction, the MAPK signaling pathway, plant hormone signal transduction, and cell wall component biosynthesis in response to the CLS infection specifically in SUPER5. In addition, the qRT-PCR was used to analyze the expression pattern of 22 candidate DEGs belonging to pathogenesis related (PR) proteins, resistance (R) proteins, transcription factors, hypersensitive response (HR), and the essential genes involved in cell wall activity during CLS-infected V. radiata. It was found that the expression of these genes was consistent with the RNA-seq analysis, showing a highly significant correlation with a coefficient of 0.7163 (p < 0.01). The co-expression network illustrated the interactions among these genes, which were involved in multiple functions related to the defense response. Interestingly, the ones encoding PR-2, thaumatin, peroxidase, defensin, RPM1, pectinesterase, chalcone synthase, auxin efflux carrier, and transcription factors (Pti1, Pti5, Pti6 and WRKY40) were highly significantly up-regulated in SUPER5 but not in CN84-1 upon CLS infection, suggesting that they might be involved in the CLS resistance mechanisms. Moreover, SUPER5 was found to have higher β-1,3-glucanase and chitinase activity levels than CN84-1. Our findings contribute to an understanding of the CLS resistance mechanisms and may advocate the development of more effective disease management approaches.
Soil salinization and ground water depletion are increasingly constraining crop production. Identifying useful mechanisms of salt tolerance is an important step toward the development of salt-tolerant crops. Of particular interest are mechanisms that are present in crop wild relatives, as they may have greater stress tolerance than crop species. The coastal species Vigna marina is one of the promising plant resources for salt tolerance. Vigna luteola is another wild species with diverse habitats, including seaside and riverbank, hereafter V. luteola-beach and V. luteola-river, respectively. By comparative transcriptome and histological analyses, this study elucidated one important aspect of how V. marina achieves an extraordinary ability to suppress Na+ uptake. Under salt stress, V. marina specifically upregulated genes involved in Casparian strip formation and developed a multi-layered lignified apoplastic barrier around endodermis, whereas V. luteola-beach formed typical, band-like Casparian strips and V. luteola-river formed only spot-like Casparian strips. As such, the ability of developing apoplastic barrier strongly correlated with those of suppressing Na+ uptake. The disruption of lignified barrier led to a dramatic increase of Na+ allocation to the shoot in V. marina, which was manifested in leaf etiolation and burning. Interestingly, despite the presence of reinforced apoplastic barrier, V. marina maintained the transport of essential ions including K+, Mg2+, and Ca2+. This study shows that the multi-layered Casparian strip-like structure plays an important role in salt tolerance.
Blackgram is an important short-duration grain legume, but its yield is highly affected by various stresses. Among biotic stresses, yellow mosaic disease (YMD) is known as a devastating disease that leads to 100% yield loss under severe conditions. The cultivated lines possess resistance, but exploring more diverse sources of resistance may be useful for pyramiding to improve the durability of said resistance. Some wild
Fusarium oxysporum disrupts redox homeostasis in Vigna mungo, likely by interfering with salicylic acid signaling, which can be ameliorated by boosting PAL and its related pathways via salicylic acid pretreatment. Fusarium oxysporum, a widespread soil-borne fungus, significantly threatens global crops. This study centers on elucidating the infection strategies employed by F. oxysporum against a new and underexplored host Vigna mungo, a leguminous crop of high agronomic value, and the defense mechanisms that can be activated against the infection, aiming to uncover how these responses can be leveraged to develop potential countermeasures. Building on prior work demonstrating the in vitro antifungal efficacy of phytohormones, including salicylic acid (SA), this study further investigates SA pretreatment at 100 µM, which previously reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) and improved germination under Fusarium stress. Through a comprehensive analysis of V. mungo plants pretreated with SA and subjected to F. oxysporum infection, we observed that fungal exposure reduced growth, chlorophyll content, and levels of proteins, phenolics and flavonoids, while increasing stress markers and antioxidant activity. SA pretreatment mitigated these effects by boosting antioxidant molecules and activating the phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) pathway, thereby enhancing endogenous SA and ROS scavenging. Furthermore, qRT-PCR analysis confirmed SA-mediated upregulation of antioxidant (catalase and peroxidase), fungal stress response genes ((pathogenesis-related gene 4 (PR4) and defensin (DEF)) and SA synthesis and regulator genes (PAL and WRKY70) involved in plant systemic resistance, while LC-MS data revealed an altered metabolic profile with increased phytoalexins and antioxidants synthesis. Overall, SA pretreatment confers resistance against F. oxysporum in V. mungo by modulating endogenous SA and metabolic profile to activate key defense pathways and redox homeostasis, highlighting its potential in plant defense strategies and reinforcing our proposed model of SA action.
Cold stress affects the growth, development, and yield of asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata subsp. sesquipedalis). Mediator (MED) complex subunits regulate the cold tolerance of asparagus bean, but the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. Here, VunMED2 positively responds to cold stress of asparagus beans. Under cold acclimation and freezing treatment, the survival rate, ROS scavenging activity, and expression levels of VunMED2 were increased in VunMED2 transgenic plants. Natural variation in the promoter of VunMED2 in two different cold-tolerant asparagus beans was observed. Under cold stress, the expression of the GUS reporter gene was higher in cold-tolerant plants than in cold-sensitive plants, and the expression of the GUS reporter gene was tissue-specific. VunHY5 positively influenced the expression of VunMED2 by binding to the E-box motif, and the transcriptional activation of the promoter was stronger in the cold-tolerant variety than in cold-sensitive plants. VunHY5 overexpression improved plant freezing resistance by increasing the antioxidant capacity and expression of dehydrin genes. VunHY5 and VunMED2 play a synergistic role in binding to the G-box/ABRE motif and transcriptionally activating the expression of VunERD14. VunERD14 complemented the med2 mutant, which could positively respond to plant freezing resistance by reducing membrane lipid peroxidation and improving the antioxidant capacity. Therefore, the VunHY5-VunERD14 module and the VunHY5-VunMED2-VunERD14 positive cascade effect are involved in the cold signal transduction in asparagus bean. Our findings have implications for the breeding of asparagus bean varieties with improved cold tolerance.
Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) is a crucial mitochondrial enzyme in the electron transport chain of plants, implicated in energy production and stress responses. Despite its importance, the function of COX in leguminous plants, especially under heavy metal stress like cadmium (Cd), remains understudied. In this study, COX genes (COX s) were identified based on the genome annotation file in mung bean (Vigna radiata (Linn.) R. Wilczek), and the gene structure, physicochemical properties and systematic relationships of the relevant amino acid sequences were analyzed by using bioinformatics method. The effects of Cd on the transcription levels and activities of COX in mung bean roots, stems, and leaves were detected to understand the mechanism of COX in mung bean in response to cadmium (Cd) stress. Transcriptome sequencing revealed tissue-specific expression with roots showed the highest levels. Cd stress significantly altered the expression and activity of VrCOXs, particularly in roots and stems, with varied responses among different genes. The differential response of VrCOX s to Cd stress indicates a role in the plant stress tolerance mechanism. The study provides insights into the function of COXs in legumes and a foundation for further research into Cd tolerance mechanisms, which could be vital for enhancing legume production and ensuring food safety in contaminated environments.
Plants activate induced defenses through the recognition of molecular patterns. Like pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), herbivore-associated molecular patterns (HAMPs) can be recognized by cell surface pattern recognition receptors leading to defensive transcriptional changes in host plants. Herbivore-induced defensive outputs are regulated by the circadian clock, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. To investigate how the plant circadian clock regulates transcriptional reprogramming of a specific HAMP-induced pathway, we characterized the daytime and nighttime transcriptional response to caterpillar-derived In11 peptide, in the legume crop cowpea (
Oxidosqualene cyclases (OSCs) are important regulatory enzymes involved in cyclization reactions of 2, 3-oxidosqualene to form triterpenes and sterols. This study presents the identification and characterization of three OSC genes, a β - amyrin synthase (VuβAS), a lupeol synthase (VuLUS) and a cycloartenol synthase (VuCAS) in Vigna unguiculata, an edible leguminous plant with high nutritional and nutraceutical value. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the VuβAS, VuLUS and VuCAS were clustered within the clades of previously characterized β - amyrin synthases, lupeol synthases and cycloartenol synthases. Heterologous expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Gas Chromatography - Mass Spectrometry (GC - MS) analysis in different plant stages confirmed their specific functions. VuβAS showed higher expression in roots from early germinating seedlings to older plants (4-day to 28-day), while VuLUS expression levels were higher in the roots of older plants only (14-day to 28-day). VuCAS expression was increased in all the tissues of 4-day seedlings, with a peak in stem and leaves and a lower accumulation in radicles. These findings revealed the presence and function of OSC genes in V. unguiculata, and future research could lead to the discovery of promising biologically active compounds.
Plant protease inhibitors (PI's) inhibit the activity of gut proteases and thus provide resistance against insect attack. Previously we have published first report on cloning and characterization of a novel Bowman-Birk protease inhibitor gene (RbTI) from ricebean (Vigna umbellata). In this study, the RbTI gene was further characterized and validated as a potential candidate for transferring insect resistance in economically important crops. We have successfully generated transgenic tobacco plants expressing RbTI gene constitutively under CaMV35S promoter using Agrobacterium transformation. Genomic PCR and GUS analysis confirmed the successful integration of RbTI gene into tobacco plant genome. qRT-PCR analysis revealed highest RbTI gene expression in transformed tobacco leaves nearing maturity. Feeding of transformed tobacco leaf tissue showed prominent effect on larval mortality throughout the larval growth stages mainly during first three days of feeding. For functional analysis of RbTI gene, we estimated the inhibitory activity of protein extracts from normal and transformed tobacco plants against gut proteases of Spodoptera litura and H. armigera larval instars. Maximum inhibition of trypsin (82.42% and 73.25%) and chymotrypsin (69.50% and 60.64%) enzymes was recorded at early larval stages of both insects. The results of this study validated the future use of RbTI gene from ricebean legume as a potential candidate for transferring insect resistance in economically important crops. Insight, innovation, integration: Present study was conducted with the aim to utilize the state of art biotechnological techniques for transferring key pest resistant genes from underutilized promising crop ricebean. The tobacco plant has been utilized as modern plant for proof of concept where a protease inhibitor gene from Ricebean has been transferred to tobacco plant which induced larval mortality within first three days of feeding at all larval developmental stages. The biochemical assays on mid-gut total protein extract showed that the transgenic tobacco leaves have inhibiting effect on trypsin and chymotrypsin enzymes of insect which is otherwise required for digestion of food by them. Hence, we provide a novel gene that could be utilized for pest resistance in other crops different developmental stages.
Selenium (Se) and zinc (Zn) deficiencies have become serious global food security and public health problems. Biofortification through foliar fertilizer is a nonspecific, low-tech, and cost-effective strategy. Se and Zn have overlapping physiological roles and interacting relationships in plants. Mung bean is superior for Se enrichment and an excellent Zn carrier. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the interaction between Se and Zn in the mung bean remains unclear. Herein, Se and Zn accumulation, antioxidant activities, physiological determination, and transcriptomic analysis were performed under both Se and Zn treatments. Common essential roles of Se and Zn in mung bean were reflected by the comprehensively altered ten physiological indexes under both Se2 (24 g·ha
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L.), a widely cultivated legume, belongs to the Fabaceae family's Papilionoideae subfamily. Although Phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein (PEBP) genes have been identified in several plant species, their presence and function in mung bean remain largely unexplored. In this study, we identified seven VrPEBP genes from mung bean and classified them into four clades: FT, MFT, TFL and FT-like. Cis-regulatory element analysis revealed that VrPEBP genes may play a role in light, hormone, and stress responses. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis indicated that VrPEBPs were constitutively expressed in various tissues. However, tissue-specific expression patterns were observed among VrPEBP genes. Under short-day (SD) conditions, VrFT1 and VrMFT1 exhibited significantly higher expression levels than under long-day (LD) conditions at 8 and 4 h, respectively. Conversely, VrTFL2 and VrTFL3 showed significantly higher expression levels under LD conditions compared to SD conditions at 8 and 12 h, respectively. The varied expression patterns of these genes under different photoperiod suggest their potential involvement in the photoperiodic regulation of flowering in mung bean. Additionally, phenotypic analysis of transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing VrFT1 revealed higher expression levels under SD conditions and predicted its role in promoting flowering. These results provide valuable insights into the evolution and function of PEBP genes in mung bean and lay the foundation for further research on their regulatory mechanisms and potential applications in mung bean improvement.
Calmodulin-binding transcription activator (CAMTA) is comprised of a group of transcription factors and plays an important role in the Ca Eight paralogous VrCAMTA genes were identified and found to be distributed on five of the 11 chromosomes. The proteins possessed CG-1 DNA-binding domains with bipartite NLS signals, ankyrin domains, CaM-binding IQ motifs, and CaM-binding domain (CaMBD). The 2 kb upstream regions of VrCAMTA genes contained sequence motifs of abscisic acid-responsive elements (ABRE) and ethylene-responsive elements (ERE), and binding sites for transcription factors of the bZIP and bHLH domains. Analysis of RNA-seq data from a public repository revealed ubiquitous expression of the VrCAMTA genes, as VrCAMTA1 was expressed at the highest level in seedling leaves, whereas VrCAMTA8 was expressed at the lowest level, which agreed with the RT-qPCR analysis performed on the first true leaves. On day four after leaf emergence, all VrCAMTA genes were upregulated, with VrCAMTA1 exhibiting the highest degree of upregulation. In darkness on day 4, upregulation was not observed in most VrCAMTA genes, except VrCAMTA7, for which a low degree of upregulation was found, whereas no difference was found in VrCAMTA8 expression between light and dark conditions. Treatment with calcium ionophores enhanced VrCAMTA expression under light and/or dark conditions at different times after leaf emergence, suggesting that calcium signaling is involved in the light-induced upregulation of VrCAMTA gene expression. The expression dependence of nearly all VrCAMTA genes on light and calcium signaling suggests their possible differential but likely complementary roles during the early stages of mung bean growth and development.
In the current study, we have performed a comprehensive analysis of the Sodium Hydrogen Exchanger (NHX) gene family in Vigna mungo, and a total of 44 NHX genes were identified. A bimodal distribution based on domains, gene structure and phylogenetic analysis was evident. All intronpoor and intron-rich genes were clustered in clades I and II, respectively. Interestingly, all genes of subclade IIb were localized to vacuoles and possess only the NHX domain. The isoelectric point and trans-membrane domain analysis reflect the wide distribution of the NHX genes. Interestingly, Vm_NHX2 and Vm_NHX3 lacked trans-membrane domain but were found to interact with other NHX genes as well as vital salinity pathway genes, including calcium-mediated salt-responsive genes. The comparison of the mRNA sequences with that of V. marina, a halophytic species, reflects their independent evolution, majorly supporting the convergent evolution. The Ka/Ks ratio reflects the abundance of purifying selection supporting their conserved function during evolution. In our analysis, several abiotic stress and hormone-responsive elements and transcription factor binding sites were present in the promoter of the NHX genes. Further, the ion partitioning of a tolerant (K90) and a susceptible (K49) variety of V. mungo suggested that K90 managed the Na
Flowering time is an important agronomic trait that is highly correlated with plant height, maturity time and yield in mungbean. Up to present, however, molecular basis of flowering time in mungbean is poorly understood. Previous studies demonstrated that flowering time in mungbean is largely controlled by a major QTL on linkage group 2 (LG2). In this study, the QTL on the LG2 in mungbean was investigated using F
Root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.) are plant parasites causing annual economic losses amounting to several billion US dollars worldwide. One of the most aggressive species is M. enterolobii, a growing threat to agriculture due to its broad host range and ability to overcome many known resistance genes. Mungbean, a nutritionally and economically valuable crop, is particularly vulnerable to nematodes and pathogens. However, research focusing on mungbean resistance to M. enterolobii is scarce, and the corresponding defense mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we screened mungbean accessions and identified an accession strongly resistant to M. enterolobii. Transcriptome analysis revealed 2730 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in this resistant accession (CPI106939) compared to 1777 in the susceptible accession (Crystal) 7 days after nematode inoculation. The gene ontology (GO) upregulated in CPI106939 with functions related to plant-pathogen interactions, plant hormone signaling, oxidative stress, and plant immunity. Plant defense-related genes (WRKY, PAL, MAPK, POD and PR) were also significantly induced in CPI106939. Metabolome analysis showed that four secondary metabolites related to phenylpropanoid metabolism and lignification were significantly enriched in CPI106939. The induced immune response and secondary metabolites may underpin the enhanced resistance to M. enterolobii, providing insight into the resistance mechanisms in accession CPI106939 as well as candidate genes controlling the interaction between mungbean and its nematode parasite. Our study therefore provides foundations for the breeding of new varieties with intrinsic M. enterolobii resistance.
The widespread use of S-metolachlor (ME) in agriculture to suppress weeds and boost crop yields, particularly in cultivating Vigna angularis, is well established. However, the application of organosilicon adjuvants with herbicides has potential threats to non-target crops. This study investigates the toxicity symptoms and mechanisms when V. angularis is exposed to ME in conjunction with a common organosilicon adjuvant. Results indicate that ME inhibits the growth of V. angularis seedlings, and adding adjuvants could aggravate the negative effects of ME. According to the growth index of seedlings, the adjuvant increased the toxicity of ME by 84-96 %. Additionally, the chlorophyll content, root permeability, and antioxidant indicators in the seedlings were also adversely affected. Integrated metabolomics and transcriptomics analyses reveal that differentially abundant metabolites (DAMs) and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) are mainly enriched in four ways: "lysine degradation," "ABC transporters," "phenylalanine metabolism," and "monoterpenoid biosynthesis." The metabolic pathways and gene regulatory network involving 11 DAMs and 22 DEGs are associated with the physiological processes affected by ME and the adjuvant. This study provides guidance for the application of herbicides and their adjuvants in agricultural production to minimize adverse effects on non-target crops.
A "watch and wait" strategy, delaying treatment until active disease manifests, is adopted for most CLL cases; however, prognostic models incorporating biomarkers have shown to be useful to predict treatment requirement. In our prospective O-CLL1 study including 224 patients, we investigated the predictive role of 513 microRNAs (miRNAs) on time to first treatment (TTFT). In the context of this study, six well-established variables (i.e., Rai stage, beta-2-microglobulin levels,
Node Inception (NIN) plays a crucial role in legume symbiosis by participating in both infection and nodule formation processes. However, its specific function in mungbean (Vigna radiata) remains poorly understood. This study aimed to functionally characterize the VrNIN1 gene in mungbean through an enhanced hairy root transformation approach. Examination of proVrNIN1: GUS hairy roots via GUS staining indicated the expression of VrNIN1 in later root promodia, nodule primordia, and nodules. Phenotypic evaluation revealed that overexpression or silencing of VrNIN1 led to a significant reduction in nodule numbers in hairy roots compared to controls. Additionally, interaction between VrNIN1 and VrNNC1 was confirmed through yeast two-hybrid, luciferase complementation and Co-immunoprecipitation assays. VrNNC1 expression was observed in the vascular bundle and cortex of roots and root nodules, where it notably suppressed nodule formation in transgenic hairy roots. Furthermore, gene expression analysis demonstrated the involvement of VrNIN1 and VrNNC1 in regulating root nodulation by modulating the expression of VrRIC1 and VrEDOD40. This study not only optimized the genetic transformation system for hairy roots in mungbean, but also provided mechanistic insights into the regulatory role of VrNIN1 in root nodule symbiosis in mungbean.
Mung bean coat has long been known for its wide-ranging health benefits, including antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, and immune-modulatory properties. For many years in China, mung beans have been employed in the therapeutic management of inflammation induced by pathogenic bacteria infection, yet the precise underlying protective mechanisms remain to be comprehensively elucidated. Given the growing concern over antibiotic resistance, there is a necessity to explore new anti-infective agents. Here, the anti-infective properties of Mung bean coat extract (MBCE) were investigated using a model of Pseudomonas aeruginosa-infected nematodes. The protective effects of MBCE on Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA14) infected nematodes were assessed by lifespan assay, reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, transcriptomics, and Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). MBCE significantly improved the survival rates and reduced ROS levels in infected worms. Transcriptomic profiling disclosed predominant KEGG pathway enrichments in immune responses, energy metabolism processes such as oxidative phosphorylation and the tricarboxylic acid cycle, alongside aging-related neurodegenerative diseases and longevity regulatory pathways like PI3K-AKT, MAPK, mTOR, and FOXO. qRT-PCR validation showed that MBCE upregulated antimicrobial peptides (spp-3, lys-1, lys-7, abf-2, cnc-2, nlp-33, clec-85), gram-negative responses (irg-3, src-2, grd-3, col-179), and mitochondrial function (mev-1) gene expressions, while downregulated insulin signaling-related (age-1, akt-1, akt-2, daf-15) gene expressions. Mutant strains lifespan analysis indicated that the nsy-1, sek-1, pmk-1, daf-2, aak-2, sir-2.1, and skn-1 were necessary for lifespan extension mediated by MBCE under PA14 infection, but not clk-1, isp-1, mev-1, or daf-16. Collectively, our findings suggested that MBCE increased the survival rates of PA14-infected worms by activating downstream antimicrobial and antioxidant gene expressions through modulation of MAPK, daf-2, aak-2, sir-2.1, and skn-1 pathways. The research underscored the potential of natural plant compounds to strengthen the body's defenses against infections, potentially mitigating harmful ROS levels and improving survival. Additionally, these findings elucidated the mechanisms by which these plant-derived compounds enhance the immune system, implying their potential utility as dietary supplements or as an alternative to conventional antibiotics.
The TATA-box binding protein (TBP) and TBP-associated factors (TAFs) constitute the transcription factor IID (TFIID), a crucial component of RNA polymerase II, essential for transcription initiation and regulation. Several TFIID subunits are shared with the Spt-Ada-Gcn5-acetyltransferase (SAGA) coactivator complex. Recent research has revealed the roles of TBP and TAFs in organogenesis and stress adaptation. In this study, we identified 1 TBP and 21 putative TAFs in the mungbean genome, among which
The adzuki bean is a mature seed of the red bean leguminous plant, and people like to eat it because of its nutritious properties and moderate proportion of amino acids. Adzuki bean germination and the enrichment of GABA greatly improve the health effects of the adzuki bean. The effects of the GABA-rich adzuki bean on the expression of insulin-pathway-related genes and proteins in the liver of T2DM mice were studied via Western blotting and qPCR. The results showed that a GABA-rich adzuki bean diet could promote glycogen synthesis in the liver of T2DM mice, inhibit the activities of PEPCK and G-6-Pase, and significantly down-regulate the gene expression levels of
In plants, WRKY transcription factors play a crucial role in plant growth, development, and response to abiotic and biotic stress. Cowpea (
The adzuki bean is a typical short-day plant and an important grain crop that is widely used due to its high nutritional and medicinal value. The adzuki bean flowering time is affected by multiple environmental factors, particularly the photoperiod. Adjusting the day length can induce flower synchronization in adzuki bean and accelerate the breeding process. In this study, we used RNA sequencing analysis to determine the effects of different day lengths on gene expression and metabolic characteristics related to adzuki bean flowering time. 'Tangshan hong xiao dou' was used as the experimental material in this study and field experiments were conducted in 2022 using a randomized block design with three treatments: short-day induction periods of 5 d (SD-5d), 10 d (SD-10d), and 15 d (SD-15d). A total of 5,939 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, of which 38.09% were up-regulated and 23.81% were down-regulated. Gene ontology enrichment analysis was performed on the target genes to identify common functions related to photosystems I and II. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis identified two pathways involved in the antenna protein and circadian rhythm. Furthermore, florescence was promoted by down-regulating genes in the circadian rhythm pathway through the blue light metabolic pathway; whereas, antenna proteins promoted flowering by enhancing the reception of light signals and accelerating electron transport. In these two metabolic pathways, the number of DEGs was the greatest between the SD-5d VS SD-15d groups. Real-time reverse transcription‒quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis results of eight DEGs were consistent with the sequencing results. Thus, the sequencing results were accurate and reliable and eight genes were identified as candidates for the regulation of short-day induction at the adzuki bean seedling stage. Short-day induction was able to down-regulate the expression of genes related to flowering according to the circadian rhythm and up-regulate the expression of certain genes in the antenna protein pathway. The results provide a theoretical reference for the molecular mechanism of short-day induction and multi-level information for future functional studies to verify the key genes regulating adzuki bean flowering.
There is an increasing amount of research into the development of a third generation of iron supplementation using peptide-iron chelates. Peptides isolated from mung bean were chelated with ferrous iron (MBP-Fe) and tested as a supplement in mice suffering from iron-deficiency anemia (IDA). Mice were randomly divided into seven groups: a group fed the normal diet, the IDA model group, and IDA groups treated with inorganic iron (FeSO
Cowpea wilt is a harmful disease caused by Fusarium oxysporum, leading to substantial losses in cowpea production. Melatonin reportedly regulates plant immunity to pathogens; however the specific regulatory mechanism underlying the protective effect of melatonin pretreated of cowpea against Fusarium oxysporum remains known. Accordingly, the study sought to evaluate changes in the physiological and biochemical indices of cowpea following melatonin treated to facilitate Fusarium oxysporum resistance and elucidate the associated molecular mechanism using a weighted gene coexpression network. Treatment with 100 µM melatonin was effective in increasing cowpea resistance to Fusarium oxysporum. Glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX), catalase (CAT), and salicylic acid (SA) levels were significantly upregulated, and hydrogen peroxide (H The study elucidated changes in the expression of genes associated with the response of cowpea to Fusarium oxysporum under melatonin treated. Specifically, multiple defence mechanisms were initiated to improve cowpea resistance to Fusarium oxysporum.
Plants exposed to heavy metals (HMs) stress negatively affect their development and production capacity. Chromium (Cr), Cadmium (Cd), and Lead (Pb) are the most common hazardous trace metals in agriculture. The physiological, biochemical, and molecular characteristics of crops are being affected. Phytoremediation is a method to alleviate heavy metals from the contaminated soil. The study aims to evaluate the phytoremediation ability of Vigna radiata L. (mung bean) in the absence and the presence of multi-metal tolerant and plant growth promoting Pseudomonas geniculata strain TIU16A3 isolated from soil of tannery industrial estate, Kolkata, West Bengal, India. The strain was further assessed with increasing concentrations of Cr, Cd, and Pb (10, 20, 40, and 80 µg/mL) when the mung bean plant was a test crop. The strain significantly increased plant growth, chlorophyll content, increased level of antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, and catalase, and decreased oxidative stress indicators like H
HER2 amplification occurs in approximately 5% of colorectal cancer (CRC) cases and is associated only partially with clinical response to combined human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)/epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-targeted treatment. An alternative approach based on adoptive cell therapy using T cells engineered with anti-HER2 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) proved to be toxic due to on-target/off-tumor activity. Here we describe a combinatorial strategy to safely target HER2 amplification and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) expression in CRC using a synNotch-CAR-based artificial regulatory network. The natural killer (NK) cell line NK-92 was engineered with an anti-HER2 synNotch receptor driving the expression of a CAR against CEA only when engaged. After being transduced and sorted for HER2-driven CAR expression, cells were cloned. The clone with optimal performances in terms of specificity and amplitude of CAR induction demonstrated significant activity in vitro and in vivo specifically against HER2-amplified (HER2amp)/CEA
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) is an important warm-season grain legume. Adaptation to extreme environmental conditions, supported by evolution, makes mung bean a rich gene pool for stress tolerance traits. The exploration of resistance genes will provide important genetic resources and a theoretical basis for strengthening mung bean breeding. B-box (BBX) proteins play a major role in developmental processes and stress responses. However, the identification and analysis of the mung bean BBX gene family are still lacking. In this study, 23 VrBBX genes were identified through comprehensive bioinformatics analysis and named based on their physical locations on chromosomes. All the VrBBXs were divided into five groups based on their phylogenetic relationships, the number of B-box they contained and whether there was an additional CONSTANS, CO-like and TOC1 (CCT) domain. Homology and collinearity analysis indicated that the BBX genes in mung bean and other species had undergone a relatively conservative evolution. Gene duplication analysis showed that only chromosomal segmental duplication contributed to the expansion of VrBBX genes and that most of the duplicated gene pairs experienced purifying selection pressure during evolution. Gene structure and motif analysis revealed that VrBBX genes clustered in the same group shared similar structural characteristics. An analysis of cis-acting elements indicated that elements related to stress and hormone responses were prevalent in the promoters of most VrBBXs. The RNA-seq data analysis and qRT-PCR of nine VrBBX genes demonstrated that VrBBX genes may play a role in response to environmental stress. Moreover, VrBBX5, VrBBX10 and VrBBX12 are important candidate genes for plant stress response. In this study, we systematically analyzed the genomic characteristics and expression patterns of the BBX gene family under ABA, PEG and NaCl treatments. The results will help us better understand the complexity of the BBX gene family and provide valuable information for future functional characteristics of specific genes in this family.
The Multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) and aluminium activated malate transporter (ALMT) gene families are involved in response to aluminium (Al) stress. In this study, we identified 48 MATE and 14 ALMT gene families in Vigna radiata genome and classified into 5 (MATE) and 3 (ALMT) clades by phylogenetic analysis. All the VrMATE and VrALMT genes were distributed across mungbean chromosomes. Tandem duplication was the main driving force for evolution and expansion of MATE gene family. Collinearity of mungbean with soybean indicated that MATE gene family is closely linked to Glycine max. Eight MATE transporters in clade 2 were found to be associated with previously characterized Al tolerance related MATEs in various plant species. Citrate exuding motif (CEM) was present in seven VrMATEs of clade 2. Promoter analysis revealed abundant plant hormone and stress responsive cis-elements. Results from quantitative real time-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) revealed that VrMATE19, VrMATE30 and VrALMT13 genes were markedly up-regulated at different time points under Al stress. Overall, this study offers a new direction for further molecular characterization of the MATE and ALMT genes in mungbean for Al tolerance.
Cadmium (Cd), one of the most phytotoxic heavy metals, is a major contributor to yield losses in several crops. Silicon (Si) is recognized for its vital role in mitigating Cd toxicity, however, the specific mechanisms governing this mitigation process are still not fully understood. In the present study, the effect of Si supplementation on mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) plants grown under Cd stress was investigated to unveil the intricate pathways defining Si derived stress tolerance. Non-invasive leaf imaging technique revealed improved growth, biomass, and photosynthetic efficiency in Si supplemented mungbean plants under Cd stress. Further, physiological and biochemical analysis revealed Si mediated increase in activity of glutathione reductase (GR), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), and catalase (CAT) enzymes involved in reactive oxygen species (ROS) metabolism leading to mitigation of cellular damage and oxidative stress. Untargeted metabolomic analysis using liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) provided insights into Si mediated changes in metabolites and their respective pathways under Cd stress. Alteration in five different metabolic pathways with major changes in flavanols and flavonoids biosynthesis pathway which is essential for controlling plants antioxidant defense system and oxidative stress management were observed. The information reported here about the effects of Si on photosynthetic efficiency, antioxidant responses, and metabolic changes will be helpful in understanding the Si-mediated resistance to Cd stress in plants.
Drought stress has become an important limiting factor in mung bean production, and NAC(NAM/ATAF/CUC) transcription factors are crucial for plant growth under stress conditions, so it is important to study the regulatory role of NAC transcription factors in mung bean under drought stress. In this investigation, VrNAC15, along with its promoter, was cloned, and its structure was meticulously analyzed. Using qPCR, we examined the tissue-specific expression patterns of VrNAC15, particularly under drought stress and ABA exposure. Additionally, We performed ectopic expression of VrNAC15 in Arabidopsis to assess its function.. Gene sequence analysis revealed that VrNAC15 has a total length of 1014 bp, encoding 337 amino acids. It contains a NAM domain, localizes within the nucleus, and exhibits transcriptional activation. Promoter analysis of VrNAC15 identified essential core promoter elements and cis-acting elements related to abscisic acid, methyl jasmonate, gibberellin, adversity stress, light, and metabolism. Expression analysis demonstrated the concentration of VrNAC15 in leaves, with significant alterations following ABA and drought treatments in mung beans. Cluster analysis revealed that VrNAC15 may enhanced drought tolerance in transgenic plants through its expression. Transgenic experiments supported these findings, showing that heterologous expression of VrNAC15 led to enhanced antioxidant and osmotic adjustment capabilities in Arabidopsis plants. This resulted in the maintenance of cell membrane structural integrity during drought stress and normal physiological and biochemical metabolic reactions within cells. This research provides valuable insights into the structural and functional characteristics of the VrNAC15, setting the stage for future endeavors in molecular breeding for improved drought resistance in mung beans.
Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most commonly diagnosed extracranial solid tumor in children, accounting for 15% of all childhood cancer deaths. Although the 5-year survival rate of patients with a high-risk disease has increased in recent decades, NB remains a challenge in pediatric oncology, and the identification of novel potential therapeutic targets and agents is an urgent clinical need. The RNA-binding protein LIN28B has been identified as an oncogene in NB and is associated with a poor prognosis. Given that LIN28B acts by negatively regulating the biogenesis of the tumor suppressor let-7 miRNAs, we reasoned that selective interference with the LIN28B/let-7 miRNA interaction would increase let-7 miRNA levels, ultimately leading to reduced NB aggressiveness. Here, we selected (-)-epigallocatechin 3-gallate (EGCG) out of 4959 molecules screened as the molecule with the best inhibitory activity on LIN28B/let-7 miRNA interaction and showed that treatment with PLC/PLGA-PEG nanoparticles containing EGCG (EGCG-NPs) led to an increase in mature let-7 miRNAs and a consequent inhibition of NB cell growth. In addition, EGCG-NP pretreatment reduced the tumorigenic potential of NB cells in vivo. These experiments suggest that the LIN28B/let-7 miRNA axis is a good therapeutic target in NB and that EGCG, which can interfere with this interaction, deserves further preclinical evaluation.
Molecular mechanisms which underpin compound leaf development in some legumes have been reported, but there is no previous study on the molecular genetic control of compound leaf formation in Vigna unguiculata (cowpea), an important dryland legume of African origin. In most studied species with compound leaves, class 1 KNOTTED-LIKE HOMEOBOX genes expressed in developing leaf primordia sustain morphogenetic activity, allowing leaf dissection and the development of leaflets. Other genes, such as, SINGLE LEAFLET1 in Medicago truncatula and Trifoliate in Solanum lycopersicum, are also implicated in regulating compound leaf patterning. To set the pace for an in-depth understanding of the genetics of compound leaf development in cowpea, we applied RNA-seq and whole genome shotgun sequence datasets of a spontaneous cowpea unifoliate mutant and its trifoliate wild-type cultivar to conduct comparative reference-based gene expression, de novo genome-wide isoform switch, and genome variant analyses between the two genotypes. Our results suggest that genomic variants upstream of LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL and down-stream of REVEILLE4, BRASSINOSTERIOD INSENSITIVE1 and LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES result in down-regulation of key components of cowpea circadian rhythm central oscillator and brassinosteroid signaling, resulting in unifoliate leaves and brassinosteroid-deficient-like phenotypes. We have stated hypotheses that will guide follow-up studies expected to provide more insights.
Rice bean (Vigna umbellata), an underrated legume, adapts to diverse climatic conditions with the potential to support food and nutritional security worldwide. It is used as a vegetable, minor food crop and a fodder crop, being a rich source of proteins, minerals, and essential fatty acids. However, little effort has been made to decipher the genetic and molecular basis of various useful traits in this crop. Therefore, we considered three economically important traits i.e., flowering, maturity and seed weight of rice bean and identified the associated candidate genes employing an associative transcriptomics approach on 100 diverse genotypes out of 1800 evaluated rice bean accessions from the Indian National Genebank. The transcriptomics-based genotyping of one-hundred diverse rice bean cultivars followed by pre-processing of genotypic data resulted in 49,271 filtered markers. The STRUCTURE, PCA and Neighbor-Joining clustering of 100 genotypes revealed three putative sub-populations. The marker-trait association analysis involving various genome-wide association study (GWAS) models revealed significant association of 82 markers on 48 transcripts for flowering, 26 markers on 22 transcripts for maturity and 22 markers on 21 transcripts for seed weight. The transcript annotation provided information on the putative candidate genes for the considered traits. The candidate genes identified for flowering include HSC80, P-II PsbX, phospholipid-transporting-ATPase-9, pectin-acetylesterase-8 and E3-ubiquitin-protein-ligase-RHG1A. Further, the WRKY1 and DEAD-box-RH27 were found to be associated with seed weight. Furthermore, the associations of PIF3 and pentatricopeptide-repeat-containing-gene with maturity and seed weight, and aldo-keto-reductase with flowering and maturity were revealed. This study offers insights into the genetic basis of key agronomic traits in rice bean, including flowering, maturity, and seed weight. The identified markers and associated candidate genes provide valuable resources for future exploration and targeted breeding, aiming to enhance the agronomic performance of rice bean cultivars. Notably, this research represents the first transcriptome-wide association study in pulse crop, uncovering the candidate genes for agronomically useful traits.
Strigolactones (SLs), a class of plant apocarotenoids, serve dual roles as rhizosphere-signaling molecules and plant hormones. Orobanchol, a major naturally occurring SL, along with its various derivatives, has been detected in the root exudates of plants of the Fabaceae family. Medicaol, fabacyl acetate, and orobanchyl acetate were identified in the root exudates of barrel medic (
Trisomy 21 (T21), which causes Down syndrome (DS), is the most common chromosomal aneuploidy in humankind and includes different clinical comorbidities, among which the alteration of the immune system has a heavy impact on patient's lives. A molecule with an important role in immune response is zinc and it is known that its concentration is significantly lower in children with T21. Different hypotheses were made about this metabolic alteration and one of the reasons might be the overexpression of superoxide dismutase 1 ( The aim of our work is to explore if there is a linear correlation between zinc level and immune cell levels measured in a total of 217 blood samples from subjects with T21. Furthermore, transcriptome map analyses were performed using Transcriptome Mapper (TRAM) software to investigate whether a difference in gene expression is detectable between subjects with T21 and euploid control group in tissues and cells involved in the immune response such as lymphoblastoid cells, thymus and white blood cells. Our results have confirmed the literature data stating that the blood zinc level in subjects with T21 is lower compared to the general population; in addition, we report that the T21/control zinc concentration ratio is 2:3, consistent with a chromosomal dosage effect due to the presence of three copies of chromosome 21. The transcriptome map analyses showed an alteration of some gene's expression which might explain low levels of zinc in the blood. Our data suggest that zinc level is not associated with the levels of immunity cells or proteins analyzed themselves and rather the main role of this ion might be played in altering immune cell function.
The origin and functionality of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) remain poorly understood. Here, we show that multiple quantitative trait loci modulating distinct domestication traits in soybeans are pleiotropic effects of a locus composed of two tandem lncRNA genes. These lncRNA genes, each containing two inverted repeats, originating from coding sequences of the MYB genes, function in wild soybeans by generating clusters of small RNA (sRNA) species that inhibit the expression of their MYB gene relatives through post-transcriptional regulation. By contrast, the expression of lncRNA genes in cultivated soybeans is severely repressed, and, consequently, the corresponding MYB genes are highly expressed, shaping multiple distinct domestication traits as well as leafhopper resistance. The inverted repeats were formed before the divergence of the Glycine genus from the Phaseolus-Vigna lineage and exhibit strong structure-function constraints. This study exemplifies a type of target for selection during plant domestication and identifies mechanisms of lncRNA formation and action.
TCP transcription factors are known to regulate abiotic stress condition, but their role in The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-024-03976-x.
The combined stress studies provide fundamental knowledge that could assist in producing multiple stress resilient crops. The fungal phytopathogen, Macrophomina phaseolina is a major limiting factor in the productivity of the crop, Vigna radiata (mungbean). This fungal species tends to flourish under hot and dry conditions. Therefore, in this study the salicylic acid (SA) mediated stress responses in contrasting mungbean cultivars (Shikha and RMG-975) exposed to combined M. phaseolina infection (F) and drought stress (D) have been elucidated. The combined stress was applied to ten days seedlings in three orders i.e. drought followed by fungal infection (DF), drought followed by fungal infection with extended water deficit (DFD) and fungal infection followed by drought stress (FD). The severity of infection was analyzed using ImageJ analysis. Besides, the concentration of SA has been correlated with the phenylpropanoid pathway products, expression of pathogenesis-related proteins (β-1,3-glucanase and chitinase) and the specific activity of certain related enzymes (phenylalanine ammonia lyase, lipoxygenase and glutathione-S-transferase). The data revealed that the cultivar RMG-975 was relatively more tolerant than Shikha under individual stresses. However, the former became more susceptible to the infection under DFD treatment while the latter showed tolerance. Otherwise, the crown rot severity was reduced in both the cultivars under other combined treatments. The stress response analysis suggested that enhanced chitinase expression is vital for tolerance against both, the pathogen and drought stress. Also, it was noted that plants treat each stress combination differently and the role of SA was more prominently visible under individual stress conditions.
Cisplatin is a widely used anti-cancer drug for treating solid tumors, but it is associated with severe side effects, including nephrotoxicity. Various studies have suggested that the nephrotoxicity of cisplatin could be overcome; nonetheless, an effective adjuvant drug has not yet been established. Oleanolic acid acetate (OAA), a triterpenoid isolated from
Mung bean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek), is an important pulse crop in the global south. Early flowering and maturation are advantageous traits for adaptation to northern and southern latitudes. This study investigates the genetic basis of the Days-to-Flowering trait (DTF) in mung bean, combining genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in mung bean and comparisons with orthologous genes involved with control of DTF responses in soybean (Glycine max (L) Merr) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The most significant associations for DTF were on mung bean chromosomes 1, 2, and 4. Only the SNPs on chromosomes 1 and 4 were heavily investigated using downstream analysis. The chromosome 1 DTF association is tightly linked with a cluster of locally duplicated FERONIA (FER) receptor-like protein kinase genes, and the SNP occurs within one of the FERONIA genes. In Arabidopsis, an orthologous FERONIA gene (AT3G51550), has been reported to regulate the expression of the FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC). For the chromosome 4 DTF locus, the strongest candidates are Vradi04g00002773 and Vradi04g00002778, orthologous to the Arabidopsis PhyA and PIF3 genes, encoding phytochrome A (a photoreceptor protein sensitive to red to far-red light) and phytochrome-interacting factor 3, respectively. The soybean PhyA orthologs include the classical loci E3 and E4 (genes GmPhyA3, Glyma.19G224200, and GmPhyA2, Glyma.20G090000). The mung bean PhyA ortholog has been previously reported as a candidate for DTF in studies conducted in South Korea. The top two identified SNPs accounted for a significant proportion (~ 65%) of the phenotypic variability in mung bean DTF by the six significant SNPs (39.61%), with a broad-sense heritability of 0.93. The strong associations of DTF with genes that have orthologs with analogous functions in soybean and Arabidopsis provide strong circumstantial evidence that these genes are causal for this trait. The three reported loci and candidate genes provide useful targets for marker-assisted breeding in mung beans.
The SPL gene family (for Squamosa Promoter-binding like Proteins) represents specific transcription factors that have significant roles in abiotic stress tolerance, development and the growth processes of different plants, including initiation of the leaf, branching and development of shoot and fruits. The SPL gene family has been studied in different plant species; however, its role is not yet fully explored in pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan ). In the present study, 11 members of the CcSPL gene family were identified in C. cajan . The identified SPLs were classified into nine groups based on a phylogenetic analysis involving SPL protein sequences from C. cajan , Arabidopsis thaliana , Cicer arietinum , Glycine max , Phaseolus vulgaris , Vigna unguiculata and Arachis hypogaea . Further, the identification of gene structure, motif analysis, domain analysis and presence of cis -regulatory elements in the SPL family members were studied. Based on RNA-sequencing data, gene expression analysis was performed, revealing that CcSPL2.1, 3 and 13A were significantly upregulated for salt-tolerance and CcSPL14 and 15 were upregulated in a salt-susceptible cultivar. Real-time qPCR validation indicated that CcSPL3, 4, 6 and 13A were upregulated under salt stress conditions. Therefore, molecular docking was performed against the proteins of two highly expressed genes (CcSPL3 and CcSPL14 ) with three ligands: abscisic acid, gibberellic acid and indole-3-acetic acid. Afterward, their binding affinity was obtained and three-dimensional structures were predicted. In the future, our study may open avenues for harnessing CcSPL genes in pigeon pea for enhanced abiotic stress resistance and developmental traits.
Mung bean (Vigna radiata) stands as a crucial legume crop in Asia, contributing to food security. However, our understanding of the underlying genetic foundation governing domesticated agronomic traits, especially those linked to pod architecture, remains largely unexplored. In this study, we delved into the genomic divergence between wild and domesticated mung bean varieties, leveraging germplasm obtained from diverse sources. Our findings unveiled pronounced variation in promoter regions (35%) between the two mung bean subpopulations, suggesting substantial changes in gene expression patterns during domestication. Leveraging transcriptome analysis using distinct reproductive stage pods and subpopulations, we identified candidate genes responsible for pod and seed architecture development, along with Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) and Quantitative Trait Locus (QTL) analysis. Notably, our research conclusively confirmed PDH1 as a parallel domesticated gene governing pod dehiscence in legumes. This study imparts valuable insights into the genetic underpinnings of domesticated agronomic traits in mung bean, and simultaneously highlighting the parallel domestication of pivotal traits within the realm of legume crops.
The mediator complex subunits (MED) constitutes a multiprotein complex, with each subunit intricately involved in crucial aspects of plant growth, development, and responses to stress. Nevertheless, scant reports pertain to the VunMED gene within the context of asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedialis). Establishing the identification and exploring the responsiveness of VunMED to cold stress forms a robust foundation for the cultivation of cold-tolerant asparagus bean cultivars. Within this study, a comprehensive genome-wide identification of VunMED genes was executed in the asparagus bean cultivar 'Ningjiang3', resulting in the discovery of 36 distinct VunMED genes. A phylogenetic analysis encompassing 232 MED genes from diverse species, including Arabidopsis, tomatoes, soybeans, mung beans, cowpeas, and asparagus beans, underscored the highly conserved nature of MED gene sequences. Throughout evolutionary processes, each VunMED gene underwent purification and neutral selection, with the exception of VunMED19a. Notably, VunMED9/10b/12/13/17/23 exhibited structural variations discernible across four cowpea species. Divergent patterns of temporal and spatial expression were evident among VunMED genes, with a prominent role attributed to most genes during early fruit development. Additionally, an analysis of promoter cis-acting elements was performed, followed by qRT-PCR assessments on roots, stems, and leaves to gauge relative expression after exposure to cold stress and subsequent recovery. Both treatments induced transcriptional alterations in VunMED genes, with particularly pronounced effects observed in root-based genes following cold stress. Elucidating the interrelationships between subunits involved a preliminary understanding facilitated by correlation and principal component analyses. This study elucidates the pivotal contribution of VunMED genes to the growth, development, and response to cold stress in asparagus beans. Furthermore, it offers a valuable point of reference regarding the individual roles of MED subunits.
Evolutionarily conserved in plants, the enzyme D-myo-inositol-3-phosphate synthase (MIPS; EC 5.5.1.4) regulates the initial, rate-limiting reaction in the phytic acid biosynthetic pathway. They are reported to be transcriptional regulators involved in various physiological functions in the plants, growth, and biotic/abiotic stress responses. Even though the genomes of most legumes are fully sequenced and available, an all-inclusive study of the MIPS family members in legumes is still ongoing. We found 24 MIPS genes in ten legumes: Arachis hypogea, Cicer arietinum, Cajanus cajan, Glycine max, Lablab purpureus, Medicago truncatula, Pisum sativum, Phaseolus vulgaris, Trifolium pratense and Vigna unguiculata. The total number of MIPS genes found in each species ranged from two to three. The MIPS genes were classified into five clades based on their evolutionary relationships with Arabidopsis genes. The structural patterns of intron/exon and the protein motifs that were conserved in each gene were highly group-specific. In legumes, MIPS genes were inconsistently distributed across their genomes. A comparison of genomes and gene sequences showed that this family was subjected to purifying selection and the gene expansion in MIPS family in legumes was mainly caused by segmental duplication. Through quantitative PCR, expression patterns of MIPS in response to various abiotic stresses, in the vegetative tissues of various legumes were studied. Expression pattern shows that MIPS genes control the development and differentiation of various organs, and have significant responses to salinity and drought stress. The MIPS genes in the genomes of legumes have been identified, characterized and their expression was analysed. The findings pave way for understanding their molecular functions and evolution, and lead to identify the putative MIPS genes associated with different cell and tissue development.
Aphid salivary proteins mediate the interaction between aphids and their host plants. Moreover, these proteins facilitate digestion, detoxification of secondary metabolites, as well as activation and suppression of plant defenses. The cowpea aphid, Aphis craccivora, is an important sucking pest of leguminous crops worldwide. Although aphid saliva plays an important role in aphid plant interactions, knowledge of the cowpea aphid salivary proteins is limited. In this study, we performed transcriptomic and LC-MS/MS analyses to identify the proteins present in the salivary glands and saliva of A. craccivora. A total of 1,08,275 assembled transcripts were identified in the salivary glands of aphids. Of all these assembled transcripts, 53,714 (49.11%) and 53,577 (49.48%) transcripts showed high similarity to known proteins in the Nr and UniProt databases, respectively. A total of 2159 proteins were predicted as secretory proteins from the salivary gland transcriptome dataset, which contain digestive enzymes, detoxification enzymes, previously known effectors and elicitors, and potential proteins whose functions have yet to be determined. The proteomic analysis of aphid saliva resulted in the identification of 171 proteins. Tissue-specific expression of selected genes using RT-PCR showed that three genes were expressed only in the salivary glands. Overall, our results provide a comprehensive repertoire of cowpea aphid salivary proteins from the salivary gland and saliva, which will be a good resource for future effector functional studies and might also be useful for sustainable aphid management.
In different regions of the world, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is an important vegetable and an excellent source of protein. It lessens the malnutrition of the underprivileged in developing nations and has some positive effects on health, such as a reduction in the prevalence of cancer and cardiovascular disease. However, occasionally, certain biotic and abiotic stresses caused a sharp fall in cowpea yield. Major RNA interference (RNAi) genes like Dicer-like (DCL), Argonaute (AGO), and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR) are essential for the synthesis of their associated factors like domain, small RNAs (sRNAs), transcription factors, micro-RNAs, and
Mungbean is known to be susceptible to waterlogging (WL) stress. Some of the wild species have the potential to tolerate this through various physiological and molecular mechanisms.
Mung bean is a dual-use crop widely cultivated in Southeast Asia as a food and medicine resource. The development of new functional mung bean varieties demands identifying new genes regulating anthocyanidin synthesis and investigating their molecular mechanism. In this study, we used high-throughput sequencing technology to generate transcriptome sequence of leaves, petioles, and hypocotyls for investigating the anthocyanins accumulation in common mung bean variety as well as anthocyanidin rich mung bean variety, and to elucidate their molecular mechanisms. 29 kinds of anthocyanin compounds were identified. Most of the anthocyanin components contents were significantly higher in ZL23 compare with AL12. Transcriptome analysis suggested that a total of 93 structural genes encoding the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway and 273 regulatory genes encoding the ternary complex of MYB-bHLH-WD40 were identified, of which 26 and 78 were differentially expressed in the two varieties. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis revealed that VrMYB3 and VrMYB90 might have enhanced mung bean anthocyanin content by inducing the expression of structural genes such as
Eukaryotic genomes show an intricate three-dimensional (3D) organization within the nucleus that regulates multiple biological processes including gene expression. Contrary to animals, understanding of 3D genome organization in plants remains at a nascent stage. Here, we investigate the evolution of 3D chromatin architecture in legumes. By using cutting-edge PacBio, Illumina, and Hi-C contact reads, we report a gap-free, chromosome-scale reference genome assembly of
The influence of drought induced by polyethylene glycol (PEG) and the alleviatory effect of nitric oxide (50 µM) and sulphur (S, 1 mM K
Specific stimuli to plants influence intracellular and intercellular communications, activation of ion channels, gene expression, growth and development. The functional role of self-induced in situ electrical stimuli at the rhizosphere of the plant by placing electrode assembly in a defined circuit mode was studied on the growth and development of Vigna radiata and Cicer arietinum plants. Experiments were designed with three-circuit mode configurational variations (CC-P, OC-P and SC-P) and compared with the relative performance of control system (non-potential). The plants cultivated under the in situ electrical stimuli (low-current) showed a marked influence on growth and photosynthetic performance of the plants. CC-P operation showed improved vegetative growth, characterized by increased roots, shoots and biomass along with accelerated plant growth from seed germination to vegetation, flowering and pod formation leading towards earlier and more robust flowering compared to control system. Plants also showed higher aquaporin gene expression levels in CC-P operation. The control operation showed 10 days additional maturation time compared to CC-P operation. The strategy can be beneficially applied to augment the bioremediation capacity of complex pollutants with reference to phytoremediation or constructed wetland systems where the plant and its roots are the main enabler apart from agriculture applications specific to nursery-raised or transplanted plants.
Plants are a source of natural ingredients with retinol-like properties that can deliver anti-aging benefits without the side effects typically associated with retinoid use. We hypothesized that by combining two such analogs, bakuchiol (BAK) and Vigna aconitifolia extract (VAE), with the potent retinoid retinal (RAL), the anti-photoaging potential of RAL could be enhanced without compromising its skin irritation profile. The purpose of this study was to demonstrate that BAK and VAE potentiate the anti-photoaging activity of RAL. Gene expression profiling of full-thickness reconstructed skin was first used to examine the impact of BAK or VAE in combination with RAL on skin biology. Next, the irritative potential of this combination, and its capacity to reverse key signs of photoaging in an ex vivo model was assessed. Finally, a proof-of-concept open label clinical study was performed to evaluate the anti-photoaging capacity and skin compatibility of a cosmetic formulation (tri-retinoid complex; 3RC) containing this complex in combination with other well characterized anti-photoaging ingredients. In vitro profiling suggested that combining 0.1% RAL with BAK or VAE potentiates the effect of RAL on keratinocyte differentiation and skin barrier function without affecting its skin irritation profile. When formulated with other anti-photoaging ingredients, such as niacinamide and melatonin, 3RC reversed ultraviolet radiation-induced deficits in structural components of the dermal extracellular matrix, including hyaluronic acid and collagen. In vivo, it led to a reversal of clinical signs of age and photodamage, with statistically significant improvement to skin firmness (+5.6%), skin elasticity (+13.9%), wrinkle count (-43.2%), and skin tone homogeneity (+7.0%), observed within 28 days of once nightly use. Notably, the number of crow's feet wrinkles was reduced in 100% of subjects. Furthermore, 3RC was very well tolerated. These data suggest that 3RC is a highly effective and well-tolerated treatment for photoaging.
Long terminal repeat (LTR)-retrotransposons (LTR-RTs) are ubiquitous and make up the majority of nearly all sequenced plant genomes, whereas their pivotal roles in genome evolution, gene expression regulation as well as their epigenetic regulation are still not well understood, especially in a large number of closely related species. Here, we analyzed the abundance and dynamic evolution of LTR-RTs in 54 species from an economically and agronomically important family, Fabaceae, and also selected two representative species for further analysis in expression of associated genes, transcriptional activity and DNA methylation patterns of LTR-RTs. Annotation results revealed highly varied proportions of LTR-RTs in these genomes (5.1%~68.4%) and their correlation with genome size was highly positive, and they were significantly contributed to the variance in genome size through species-specific unique amplifications. Almost all of the intact LTR-RTs were inserted into the genomes 4 Mya (million years ago), and more than 50% of them were inserted in the last 0.5 million years, suggesting that recent amplifications of LTR-RTs were an important force driving genome evolution. In addition, expression levels of genes with intronic, promoter, and downstream LTR-RT insertions of Glycine max and Vigna radiata, two agronomically important crops in Fabaceae, showed that the LTR-RTs located in promoter or downstream regions suppressed associated gene expression. However, the LTR-RTs within introns promoted gene expression or had no contribution to gene expression. Additionally, shorter and younger LTR-RTs maintained higher mobility and transpositional potential. Compared with the transcriptionally silent LTR-RTs, the active elements showed significantly lower DNA methylation levels in all three contexts. The distributions of transcriptionally active and silent LTR-RT methylation varied across different lineages due to the position of LTR-RTs located or potentially epigenetic regulation. Lineage-specific amplification patterns were observed and higher methylation level may repress the activity of LTR-RTs, further influence evolution in Fabaceae species. This study offers valuable clues into the evolution, function, transcriptional activity and epigenetic regulation of LTR-RTs in Fabaceae genomes.
Symbiotic interaction among legume and rhizobia is a complex phenomenon which results in the formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules. Mung bean is promiscuous host however expression profile of this important legume plant in response to rhizobial infection was particularly lacking and urgently needed. We have demonstrated the pattern of gene expression of mung bean roots inoculated with two symbionts Bradyrhizobium yuanmingense Vr50 and Sinorhizobium (Ensifer) aridi Vr33 and non-inoculated control (CK). The RNA-Seq data analyzed at two growth stages i.e., 1-3 h and 10-16 days post inoculation revealed significantly higher number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) at nodulation stage. The DEGs encoding receptor kinases identified at early stage might be involved in perception of Nod factors produced by different rhizobia. At nodulation stage important genes involved in plant hormone signal transduction, nitrogen and sulfur metabolism were identified. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis showed that metabolic pathways were most prominent in both groups (Group 1: Vr33 vs CK; Group 2: Vr50 vs CK), followed by biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, plant hormone signal transduction and biosynthesis of amino acids. Furthermore, DEGs involved in cell communication and plant hormone signal transduction were found to be different among two symbiotic systems while DEGs involved in carbon, nitrogen and sulfur metabolism were similar but their expression varied in response to two rhizobial strains. This study provides the first insight into the mechanisms underlying interactions of mung bean host with two taxonomically different symbionts (Bradyrhizobium and Sinorhizobium) and the candidate genes for better understanding the mechanisms of symbiotic host-speciﬁcity.
Vigna reflexo-pilosa (créole bean) is a wild legume belonging to the subgenus Ceratoropis and is widely distributed in Asia. Créole bean is the only tetraploid species in the genus Vigna, and it has been shown to derive from the hybridization of Vigna hirtella and Vigna trinervia. In this study, we combined the long-read PacBio technology with the chromatin contact mapping (Hi-C) technique to obtain a chromosome-level assembly of V. reflexo-pilosa. The final assembly contained 998,724,903 bases with an N50 length of 42,545,650 bases. Our gene prediction recovered 99.4% of the highly conserved orthologs based on the BUSCO analysis. To investigate homoeolog expression bias and expression level dominance in the tetraploid, we also sequenced and assembled the genomes of its progenitors. Overall, the majority of the homoeolog pairs (72.9%) displayed no expression bias, and among those that exhibited biased expression, 16.3% showed unbalanced homoeolog expression bias toward the V. trinervia subgenome. Moreover, 41.2% and 36.2% of the expressed gene pairs exhibited transgressive expression and expression level dominance, respectively. Interestingly, the genome-wide expression level dominance in the tetraploid was biased toward the V. trinervia subgenome. The analysis of methylation patterns also revealed that the average methylation levels in coding regions were higher in the V. hirtella subgenome than those in the V. trinervia subgenome. The genomic/transcriptomic resources for these three species are useful not only for the development of elite cultivars in Vigna breeding programs but also to researchers studying comparative genomics and investigating genomic/epigenomic changes following polyploid events.
Plant glutamate receptor proteins (GLRs) are involved in plant development, biotic stress, and light-signal transduction. Vigna angularis is a traditional crop with important economic value in China, and the identification of functional genes can facilitate the breeding of stress resistant varieties. Here, we identified the members of the GLR gene family in the adzuki bean genome and investigated gene expression under light and rust fungal (Uromyces vignae) stimuli. Sixteen GLR genes were identified in V. angularis (VaGLRs), and these genes clustered in a single clade (clade III) with two groups. Evolutionary analysis showed that three VaGLRs result from tandem duplications and four result from whole genome/segmental duplications. To understand the regulation of expression of VaGLRs, cis-acting elements were analyzed in the promoter regions of the VaGLRs including cis-acting elements associated with light and stress responsiveness. Expression analysis by qRT-PCR revealed transcripts of eight and 10 VaGLRs in response to light stimuli and rust infection, respectively. For light responsiveness, the expression levels of XP_017430569.1 and XP_017425299.1 were higher under light condition than in darkness, while the expression levels of XP_017406996.1, XP_017425763.1, and XP_017423557.1 gradually recovered during dark treatment. Additionally, the relative expression levels of XP_017413816.1, XP_017436268.1, and XP_017425299.1 were significantly elevated during U. vignae infection in a resistant cultivar compared to the expression levels in a susceptible cultivar. XP_017425299.1 expression was induced both by light and rust infection, suggesting this gene may link light and disease resistance signaling pathways. Our results provide insight into how the VaGLRs contribute to adzuki bean response to light stimulus and pathogen attack. These identified VaGLRs also provide important reference to improve adzuki bean germplasm resources.
Cancer cell dissemination is sustained by cell-autonomous and non-cell-autonomous functions. To disentangle the role of HGF (Hepatocyte Growth Factor) and MET ligand/receptor axis in this complex process, we genetically knocked out the MET gene in cancer cells in which MET is not the oncogenic driver. In this way, we evaluated the contribution of the HGF/MET axis to cancer cell dissemination independently of its direct activities in cells of the tumor microenvironment. The lack of MET expression in MET
Domestication is the long and complex process underlying the evolution of crops, in which artificial directional selection transformed wild progenitors into the desired form, affecting genomic variation and leaving traces of selection at targeted loci. However, whether genes controlling important domestication traits follow the same evolutionary pattern expected under the standard selective sweep model remains unclear. With whole-genome resequencing of mungbean (Vigna radiata), we investigated this issue by resolving its global demographic history and targeted dissection of the molecular footprints of genes underlying 2 key traits representing different stages of domestication. Mungbean originated in Asia, and the Southeast Asian wild population migrated to Australia about 50 thousand generations ago. Later in Asia, the cultivated form diverged from the wild progenitor. We identified the gene associated with the pod shattering resistance trait, VrMYB26a, with lower expression across cultivars and reduced polymorphism in the promoter region, reflecting a hard selective sweep. On the other hand, the stem determinacy trait was associated with VrDet1. We found that 2 ancient haplotypes of this gene have lower gene expression and exhibited intermediate frequencies in cultivars, consistent with selection favoring independent haplotypes in a soft selective sweep. In mungbean, contrasting signatures of selection were identified from the detailed dissection of 2 important domestication traits. The results suggest complex genetic architecture underlying the seemingly simple process of directional artificial selection and highlight the limitations of genome-scan methods relying on hard selective sweeps.
Selenium (Se) biofortification of crops has been studied to substantially improve the Se content in human dietary food intake. In the present study, Vigna radiata (mung bean) seeds were soaked in different concentrations of sodium selenite (Na
Black mung bean is rich in anthocyanin, however, the accumulation and the molecular mechanism of anthocyanin synthesis in black mung bean are unclear. In this study, anthocyanin metabolomics and transcriptomics on the seed coats of two different colors of mung bean were performed to clarify the composition of anthocyanins, and identify transcription factors involved in regulating anthocyanin biosynthesis. In the mature stage, 23 kinds of anthocyanin compounds were identified. All anthocyanin components contents were significantly higher in seed coat of black mung bean compare with green mung bean. Transcriptome analysis suggested that most of the structural genes for anthocyanin biosynthesis and some potential regulatory genes were significantly differentially expressed. WGCNA suggested VrMYB90 was an important regulatory gene in anthocyanin biosynthesis. Arabidopsis thaliana overexpressing VrMYB90 showed significant accumulation of anthocyanins. PAL, 4CL, DFR, F3'5'H, LDOX, F3'H and UFGT were up-regulated in 35S:VrMYB90 Arabidopsis thaliana. These findings provide valuable information for understanding the synthesis mechanism of anthocyanins in black mung bean seed coats.
Drought is a major factor that limiting mung bean development. To clarify the molecular mechanism of mung bean in response to drought stress, 2 mung bean groups were established, the experimental group (drought-treated) and the control group (normal water management). With prominent difference of 2 groups in stomatal conductance, relative water content and phenotype, leaf samples were collected at 4 stages, and the physiological index of MDA, POD, chlorophyll, and soluble proteins were estimated. RNA-seq was used to obtain high quality data of samples, and differentially expressed genes were identified by DESeq2. With GO and KEGG analysis, DEGs were enriched into different classifications and pathways. WGCNA was used to detect the relationship between physiological traits and genes, and qPCR was performed to confirm the accuracy of the data. We obtained 169.49 Gb of clean data from 24 samples, and the Q30 of each date all exceeded 94%. In total, 8963 DEGs were identified at 4 stages between the control and treated samples, and the DEGs were involved in most biological processes. 1270 TFs screened from DEGs were clustered into 158 TF families, such as AP2, RLK-Pelle-DLSVA, and NAC TF families. Genes related to physiological traits were closely related to plant hormone signaling, carotenoid biosynthesis, chlorophyll metabolism, and protein processing. This paper provides a large amount of data for drought research in mung bean.
Reduced crop productivity results from altered plant physiological processes caused by dysfunctional proteins due to environmental stressors. In this study, a novel DnaJ Type-I encoding gene,
Vigna mungo, a highly consumed crop in the pan-Asian countries, is vulnerable to several biotic and abiotic stresses. Understanding the post-transcriptional gene regulatory cascades, especially alternative splicing (AS), may underpin large-scale genetic improvements to develop stress-resilient varieties. Herein, a transcriptome based approach was undertaken to decipher the genome-wide AS landscape and splicing dynamics in order to establish the intricacies of their functional interactions in various tissues and stresses. RNA sequencing followed by high-throughput computational analyses identified 54,526 AS events involving 15,506 AS genes that generated 57,405 transcripts isoforms. Enrichment analysis revealed their involvement in diverse regulatory functions and demonstrated that transcription factors are splicing-intensive, splice variants of which are expressed differentially across tissues and environmental cues. Increased expression of a splicing regulator NHP2L1/SNU13 was found to co-occur with lower intron retention events. The host transcriptome is significantly impacted by differential isoform expression of 1172 and 765 AS genes that resulted in 1227 (46.8% up and 53.2% downregulated) and 831 (47.5% up and 52.5% downregulated) transcript isoforms under viral pathogenesis and Fe
Alternative splicing (AS) is a crucial regulatory mechanism that impacts transcriptome and proteome complexity under stressful situations. Although its role in abiotic stresses is somewhat understood, our understanding of the mechanistic regulation of pre-messenger RNA splicing in plant-pathogen interaction is meager. To comprehend this unexplored immune reprogramming mechanism, transcriptome profiles of Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV)-resistant and susceptible Vigna mungo genotypes were analyzed for AS genes that may underlie the resistance mechanism. Results revealed a repertoire of AS-isoforms accumulated during pathogenic infestation, with intron retention being the most common AS mechanism. Identification of 688 differential alternatively spliced (DAS) genes in the resistant host elucidates its robust antiviral response, whereas 322 DAS genes were identified in the susceptible host. Enrichment analyses confirmed DAS transcripts pertaining to stress, signaling, and immune system pathways have undergone maximal perturbations. Additionally, a strong regulation of the splicing factors has been observed both at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. qPCR validation of candidate DAS transcripts with induced expression upon MYMIV infection demonstrated a competent immune response in the resistant background. The AS-impacted genes resulted either in partial/complete loss of functional domains or altered sensitivity to micro-RNA-mediated gene silencing. A complex regulatory module, miR7517-ATAF2, has been identified in an aberrantly spliced ATAF2 isoform that exposes an intronic miR7517 binding site, thereby suppressing the negative regulator to enhance the defense reaction. The present study establishes AS as a noncanonical immune reprogramming mechanism that operates in parallel, thereby offering an alternative strategy for developing yellow mosaic-resistant V. mungo cultivars.
Callosobruchus chinensis (Coleoptera: Fabaceae) is a worldwide pest that feeds exclusively on legumes, and is the most serious pest affecting mung beans. Usually, the insect olfactory system plays a predominant role in searching for host plants and egg-laying locations. Chemosensory proteins (CSPs), are mainly responsible for transporting specific odour molecules from the environment. In this study, we found that the CSP1 gene of adult C. chinensis displayed antennae-biased expression using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis. The binding properties of 23 mung bean volatiles were then determined through several analyses of in vitro recombinant CSP1 protein, including fluorescence competitive binding assay, homology modelling, molecular docking, and site-directed mutagenesis. Fluorescence competitive binding assays showed that CchiCSP1 protein could bind to four mung bean volatiles and was most stable at pH 7.4. After site-directed mutation of three key amino acid bases (L39, V25, and Y35), their binding affinities to each ligand were significantly decreased or lost. This indicated that these three amino acid residues may be involved in the binding of CchiCSP1 to different ligands. We further used Y-tube behavioural bioassays to find that the four mung bean volatiles had a significant attraction or repulsion response in adult C. chinensis. The above findings confirm that the CchiCSP1 protein may be involved in the response of C. chinensis to mung bean volatiles and plays an important role in olfactory-related behaviours. The four active volatiles are expected to develop into new behavioural attractants or repellents in the future.
In plants, RNA silencing is an important conserved mechanism to regulate gene expression and combat against abiotic and biotic stresses. Dicer-like (DCL) and Argonaute (AGO) proteins and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR) are the core elements involved in gene silencing and their gene families have been explored in many plants. However, these genes and their responses to stresses have not yet been well characterized in adzuki bean. A total of 11 AGO, 7 DCL and 6 RDR proteins were identified, and phylogenetic analyses of these proteins showed that they clustered into six, four and four clades respectively. The expression patterns of these genes in susceptible or resistant adzuki bean cultivars challenged with drought, bean common mosaic virus and Podosphaera xanthii infections were further validated by quantitative RT-PCR. The different responses of these proteins under abiotic and biotic stresses indicated their specialized regulatory mechanisms. In this study, 24 genes of the DCL, AGO and RDR gene families in adzuki bean were identified, and the sequence characterization, structure of the encoded proteins, evolutionary relationship with orthologues in other legumes and gene expression patterns under drought and biotic stresses were primarily explored, which enriched our understanding of these genes in adzuki bean. Our findings provide a foundation for the comparative genomic analyses of RNA silencing elements in legume plants and further new insights into the functional complexity of RNA silencing in the response to various stresses in adzuki bean.
Cicer arietinum, Cajanus cajan, Vigna radiata, and Phaseolus vulgaris are economically important legume crops with high nutritional value. They are negatively impacted globally by different biotic and abiotic stresses. Hyperosmolality-gated calcium-permeable channels (OSCA) have been characterized as osmosensors in Arabidopsis thaliana but have not previously reported in legumes. This study provides a genome-wide identification, characterization, and comparative analysis of OSCA genes in legumes. Our study identified and characterized 13 OSCA genes in C. cajan, V. radiata, P. vulgaris, and 12 in C. arietinum, classified into four distinct clades. We found evidence to suggest that the OSCAs might be involved in the interaction between hormone signalling pathways and stress signalling pathways. Furthermore, they play a major role in plant growth and development. The expression levels of the OSCAs vary under different stress conditions in a tissue-specific manner. Our study can be used to develop a detailed understanding of stress regulatory mechanisms of the OSCA gene family in legumes.
Iron is a crucial nutrient for biological functions in plants. High-pH and calcareous soil is a major stress causing iron deficiency chlorosis (IDC) symptoms and yield losses in crops. Use of calcareous soil-tolerance genetic resources is the most effective preventative method to combat the effects of high-pH and calcareous soils. A previous study using a mungbean recombinant inbred line (RIL) population of the cross Kamphaeg Saen 2 (KPS2; IDC susceptible) × NM-10-12 identified a major quantitative trait locus (QTL), qIDC3.1, which controls resistance and explains more than 40% of IDC variation. In this study, we fine-mapped qIDC3.1 and identified an underlying candidate gene. A genome wide association analysis (GWAS) using 162 mungbean accessions identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on chromosome 6; several SNPs were associated with soil plant analysis development (SPAD) values and IDC visual scores of mungbeans planted on calcareous soil, respectively. These SNPs corresponded to qIDC3.1. Using the same RIL population as in the previous study and an advanced backcross population developed from KPS2 and IDC-resistant inbred line RIL82, qIDC3.1 was further confirmed and fine-mapped to an interval of 217 kilobases harboring five predicted genes, including LOC106764181 (VrYSL3), which encodes a yellow stripe1-like-3 (YSL3) protein, YSL3 is involved in iron deficiency resistance. Gene expression analysis revealed that VrYSL3 was highly expressed in mungbean roots. In calcareous soil, expression of VrYSL3 was significantly up-regulated, and it was more obviously upregulated in the roots of RIL82, than in those of KPS2. Sequence comparison of VrYSL3 between the RIL82 and KPS2 revealed four SNPs that result in amino acid changes in the VrYSL3 protein and a 20-bp insertion/deletion in the promoter where a cis-regulatory element resides. Transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants overexpressing VrYSL3 showed enhanced iron and zinc contents in the leaves. Taken together, these results indicate that VrYSL3 is a strong candidate gene responsible for calcareous soil resistance in mungbean.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is a legume staple widely grown across Sub-Saharan Africa and other tropical and sub-tropical regions. Considering projected climate change and global population increases, cowpea's adaptation to hot climates, resistance to drought, and nitrogen-fixing capabilities make it an especially attractive crop for facing future challenges. Despite these beneficial traits, efficient varietal improvement is challenging in cowpea due to its recalcitrance to transformation and long regeneration times. Transient gene expression assays can provide solutions to alleviate these issues as they allow researchers to test gene editing constructs before investing in the time and resource- intensive process of transformation. In this study, we developed an improved cowpea protoplast isolation protocol, a transient protoplast assay, and an agroinfiltration assay to be used for initial testing and validation of gene editing constructs and for gene expression studies. To test these protocols, we assessed the efficacy of a CRISPR-Cas9 construct containing four multiplexed single-guide RNA (sgRNA) sequences using polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated transformation and agroinfiltration with phytoene desaturase (PDS) as the target gene. Sanger sequencing of DNA from transformed protoplasts and agroinfiltrated cowpea leaves revealed several large deletions in the target sequences. The protoplast system and agroinfiltration protocol developed in this study provide versatile tools to test gene editing components before initiating plant transformation, thus improving the chance of using active sgRNAs and attaining the desired edits and target phenotype.
Pod dehiscence is a major source of yield loss in legumes, which is exacerbated by aridity. Disruptive mutations in "Pod indehiscent 1" (PDH1), a pod sclerenchyma-specific lignin biosynthesis gene, has been linked to significant reductions in dehiscence in several legume species. We compared syntenic PDH1 regions across 12 legumes and two outgroups to uncover key historical evolutionary trends at this important locus. Our results clarified the extent to which PDH1 orthologs are present in legumes, showing the typical genomic context surrounding PDH1 has only arisen relatively recently in certain phaseoloid species (Vigna, Phaseolus, Glycine). The notable absence of PDH1 in Cajanus cajan may be a major contributor to its indehiscent phenotype compared with other phaseoloids. In addition, we identified a novel PDH1 ortholog in Vigna angularis and detected remarkable increases in PDH1 transcript abundance during Vigna unguiculata pod development. Investigation of the shared genomic context of PDH1 revealed it lies in a hotspot of transcription factors and signaling gene families that respond to abscisic acid and drought stress, which we hypothesize may be an additional factor influencing expression of PDH1 under specific environmental conditions. Our findings provide key insights into the evolutionary history of PDH1 and lay the foundation for optimizing the pod dehiscence role of PDH1 in major and understudied legume species.
Vigna radiata L., an imperative legume crop of Pakistan, faces hordes of damage due to fungi; infecting host tissues by the appressorium. The use of natural compounds is an innovative concern to manage mung-bean fungal diseases. The bioactive secondary metabolites of Penicillium species are well documented for their strong fungi-static ability against many pathogens. Presently, one-month-old aqueous culture filtrates of Penicillium janczewskii, P. digitatum, P. verrucosum, P. crustosum, and P. oxalicum were evaluated to check the antagonistic effect of different dilutions (0, 10, 20, … and 60%). There was a significant reduction of around 7-38%, 46-57%, 46-58%, 27-68%, and 21-51% in Phoma herbarum dry biomass production due to P. janczewskii, P. digitatum, P. verrucosum, P. crustosum, and P. oxalicum, respectively. Inhibition constants determined by a regression equation demonstrated the most significant inhibition by P. janczewskii. Finally, using real-time reverse transcription PCR (qPCR) the effect of P. Janczewskii metabolites was determined on the transcript level of StSTE12 gene involved in the development and penetration of appressorium. The expression pattern of the StSTE12 gene was determined by percent Knockdown (%KD) expression that was found to be decreased i.e. 51.47, 43.22, 40.67, 38.01, 35.97, and 33.41% for P. herbarum with an increase in metabolites concentrations viz., 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 and 60% metabolites, respectively. In silico studies were conducted to analyze the role of Ste12 a transcriptional factor in the MAPK signaling pathway. The present study concludes a strong fungicidal potential of Penicillium species against P. herbarum. Further studies to isolate the effective fungicidal constituents of Penicillium species through GCMS analysis and determination of their role in signaling pathways are requisite.
WRKY-, PHD-, and MYB-like proteins are three important types of transcription factors in mungbeans, and play an important role in development and stress resistance. The genes' structures and characteristics were clearly reported and were shown to contain the conservative WRKYGQK heptapeptide sequence, Cys4-His-cys3 zinc binding motif, and HTH (helix) tryptophan cluster W structure, respectively. Knowledge on the response of these genes to salt stress is largely unknown. To address this issue, 83 VrWRKYs, 47 VrPHDs, and 149 VrMYBs were identified by using comparative genomics, transcriptomics, and molecular biology methods in mungbeans. An intraspecific synteny analysis revealed that the three gene families had strong co-linearity and an interspecies synteny analysis showed that mungbean and
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are acquired bone marrow malignant disorders characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis, resulting from a complex interaction between genetic and epigenetic mutations, alterations of the marrow microenvironment, and the immune system. In 2001, the World Health Organization (WHO) proposed a classification that integrates morphologic and genetic information, considering the MDS with ring sideroblasts (MDS-RS) as a distinct entity. Considering the strong association between MDS-RS and SF3B1 mutation and its importance in the development of MDS, the last WHO classification replaced the prior entity of MDS-RS with MDS with SF3B1 mutation. Several studies were performed to explore this genotype-phenotype correlation. Mutant SF3B1 protein deregulates the expression of genes implicated in developing hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Of paramount importance are PPOX and ABCB7 involved in iron metabolism. Another essential role in hemopoiesis is played by the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) receptor. This gene exerts its effects on SMAD pathways, regulating hematopoiesis through effects on balancing proliferation and apoptosis cell inactivity, differentiation, and migration. Luspatercept (ACE-536) is a soluble fusion protein that inhibits molecules in the TGF-β superfamily. Since its structure resembles the TGF-β family receptor, it catches TGF-β superfamily ligands before binding to the receptor, resulting in reduced activation of SMAD signaling, thus enabling erythroid maturation. Luspatercept was investigated in the phase III trial MEDALIST, showing promising efficacy in treating anemia compared to placebo. Nowadays, further studies are needed to explore the real potential of luspatercept, investigating the biological features likely associated with treatment response, the potential use in combination treatments, and its role in the treatment of naïve MDS.
It is an important way for healthy Selenium (Se) supplement to transform exogenous Se into organic Se through crops. In the present study,
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is a crucial crop for regions of the world that are prone to both heat and drought; however, the phytotoxic cowpea aphid (Aphis craccivora) impairs plant physiology at low population levels. Both antibiotic and antixenotic forms of resistance to the aphid have been mapped to two quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and near isogenic lines (NILs). The molecular mechanism for this resistance response remains unknown. To understand the genes underlying susceptibility and resistance, two cowpea lines with shared heritage were infested along a time course and characterized for transcriptome variation. Aphids remodeled cowpea development and signaling relative to host plant resistance and the duration of feeding, with resource acquisition and mobilization determining, in part, susceptibility to aphid attack. Major differences between the susceptible and resistant cowpea were identified including two regions of interest housing the most genetic differences between the lines. Candidate genes enabling aphid resistance include both conventional resistance genes (e.g., leucine rich repeat protein kinases) as well as multiple novel genes with no known orthologues. Our results demonstrate that feeding by the cowpea aphid globally remodels the transcriptome of cowpea, but how this occurs depends on both the duration of feeding and host-plant resistance. Constitutive expression profiles of the resistant genotype link aphid resistance to a finely-tuned resource management strategy that ultimately reduces damage (e.g., chlorosis) and delays cell turnover, while impeding aphid performance. Thus, aphid resistance in cowpea is a complex, multigene response that involves crosstalk between primary and secondary metabolism.
Novel function and mechanism of a PNP molecule VaEG45 from adzuki bean involved in plant immunity. Plant natriuretic peptides (PNPs) can affect a broad spectrum of physiological responses in plants acting as peptidic signaling molecules. However, PNPs may play additional roles in plant immunity. Our previous transcriptome data of adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) in response to Uromyces vignae infection revealed association of PNP-encoding gene VaEG45 with U. vignae resistance. To determine the function of VaEG45 in disease resistance, we cloned the 589 bp nucleotide sequence of VaEG45 containing 2 introns, encoding a putative 13.68 kDa protein that is 131 amino acids in length. We analyzed expression in different resistant cultivars of V. angularis and found significant induction of VaEG45 expression after U. vignae infection. Transient expression of VaEG45 improved tobacco resistance against Botrytis cinerea. We next analyzed the mechanism by which VaEG45 protects plants from fungal infection by determination of the biological activity of the prokaryotic expressed VaEG45. The results showed that the fusion protein VaEG45 can significantly inhibit urediospores germination of U. vignae, mycelial growth, and the infection of tobacco by B. cinerea. Further analysis revealed that VaEG45 exhibits β-1, 3-glucanase activity. These findings uncover the function of a novel PNP molecule VaEG45 and provide new evidence about the mechanism of PNPs in plant immunity.
Priestia species isolated from the cowpea rhizosphere altered the transcriptome of cowpea roots by colonization and enhanced nutrient uptake, antioxidant mechanisms, and photosynthesis, protecting cowpea from drought and nutrient deficiency. Cowpea is a significant grain legume crop primarily grown in sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, and South America. Drought and nutrient deficiency affect the growth and yield of cowpea. To address this challenge, we studied the phyto-beneficial effects of stress-tolerant rhizobacteria on the biomass yield of cowpea under water- and nutrient-deficit conditions. Among the bacteria isolated, two rhizobacillus genotypes, C8 (Priestia filamentosa; basonym: Bacillus filamentosus) and C29 (Priestia aryabhattai; basonym: Bacillus aryabhattai) were evaluated for the improvement of seed germination and growth of cowpea under stress. Our study revealed that C8 protected cowpea from stress by facilitating phosphorus and potassium uptake, protecting it from oxidative damage, reducing transpiration, and enhancing CO
New therapeutic strategies for glioblastoma treatment, especially tackling the tumour's glioblastoma stem cell (GSC) component, are an urgent medical need. Recently, mitochondrial translation inhibition has been shown to affect GSC growth, clonogenicity, and self-renewal capability, therefore becoming an attractive therapeutic target. The combination of streptogramins B and A antibiotics quinupristin/dalfopristin (Q/D), which inhibits mitochondrial ribosome function, affects GSCs more effectively in vitro than the standard of care temozolomide. Here, docking calculations based on the cryo-EM structure of the Q/D-bound mitochondrial ribosome have been used to develop a series of streptogramin A derivatives. We obtained twenty-two new and known molecules starting from the dalfopristin and virginiamycin M1 scaffolds. A structure-activity relationship refinement was performed to evaluate the capability of these compounds to suppress GSC growth and inhibit mitochondrial translation, either alone or in combination with quinupristin. Finally, quantitative ultra HPLC-mass spectrometry allowed us to assess the cell penetration of some of these derivatives. Among all, the fluorine derivatives of dalfopristin and virginiamycin M1, (16R)-1e and (16R)-2e, respectively, and flopristin resulted in being more potent than the corresponding lead compounds and penetrating to a greater extent into the cells. We, therefore, propose these three compounds for further evaluation in vivo as antineoplastic agents.
Bradyrhizobium guangxiense CCBAU53363 efficiently nodulates peanut but exhibits incompatible interaction with mung bean. By comparing the common
It has been shown that multidrug and toxic compound extrusion/detoxification (MATE/DTX) family transporters are involved in the regulation of plant development and stress response. Here, we characterized the
Mung bean is an important grain-legume crop and its sprout is an economical and nutrient vegetable for the public, but the genetic regulation of anthocyanin production, which is an antioxidant in mung bean, remains elusive. In our study, we characterized a subgroup (SG) 6 R2R3-MYB anthocyanin activator VrMYB90 and a SG 4 R2R3-MYB anthocyanin repressor VrMYB3, which synergistically function in regulating anthocyanin synthesis with VrbHLHA transcription factor. The overexpressed VrMYB90 protein activates the expression of VrMYB3 and VrbHLHA in mung bean hair roots, and also promotes VrDFR and VrANS transcript levels by directly binding to the corresponding promoters at specific motifs (CAACTG and CCGTTG). VrMYB90 interacts with VrbHLHA to enhance its regulatory activities on VrDFR and VrANS. Furthermore, the interaction between VrMYB3 with VrMYB90 and VrbHLHA could result in the restriction of anthocyanin synthesis to prevent excessive anthocyanin accumulation. Our results demonstrate that the VrMYB90 protein, in conjunction with VrMYB3 and VrbHLHA, forms a key regulatory module to fine-tune anthocyanin synthesis in mung bean.
Cowpea is sensitive to drought and heat stress, particularly at the reproductive stages of development. Both stresses limit growth and yield, and their effect is more devastating when occurring concurrently. Dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2A (DREB2A) is an important signaling hub integrating information about two different abiotic stresses, drought and heat. We identified VuDREB2A as a canonical DREB ortholog in cowpea, activating downstream stress-responsive genes by binding to DREs in their promoter. Post-translational modification of a negative regulatory domain (NRD) within the VuDREB2A protein prevents its degradation. Targeted deletion of the NRD produces a stable and constitutively active form VuDREB2A-CA. However, there is very little evidence of its practical utility under field conditions. This study overexpressed the VuDREB2A-CA in a popular cowpea variety and conducted drought- and heat-tolerance experiments across various stress regimes. Transgenic cowpea exhibited significant tolerance with consistently higher yield when exposed to over 30-d drought stress and 3-d exposure to high temperature (28 °C-52 °C) without any pleiotropic alterations. The transgenic lines showed higher photosynthetic efficiency, osmotic adjustment, antioxidant defense, thermotolerance, and significantly higher survival and increased biomass than the wild type. Late embryogenesis abundant 5, heat shock protein 70, dehydrin, mitogen-activated protein kinase 2/4, isoflavonoid reductase, and myoinositol phosphate synthase were upregulated in transgenic lines under drought and heat stress. Through transcriptome analysis of the transgenic lines, we found significant up-regulation of various stress-responsive cowpea genes, having DRE in their promoter. Our results suggest that overexpression of VuDREB2A could improve cowpea production under drought and high temperatures.
Adzuki bean is an important legume crop originating in temperate regions, with photoperiod in sensitivity being a key factor in its latitudinal adaptation. The
Broad diversity of flowers in Fabaceae provides a good system to investigate development and evolution of floral symmetry in higher plants. Many studies have demonstrated a conserved mechanism controlling development of zygomorphic flower during last decades. However, the molecular basis of how asymmetric flower established is largely unknown. In this study, we characterized mutants named
NAC (NAM/ATAF1/2/CUC2) transcription factors are central switches of growth and stress responses in plants. However, unpredictable interspecies conservation of function and regulatory targets makes the well-studied NAC orthologs inapt for pulse engineering. The knowledge of suitable NAC candidates in hardy pulses like cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is still in infancy, hence warrants immediate biotechnological intervention. Here, we showed that overexpression of two native NAC genes (VuNAC1 and VuNAC2) promoted germinative, vegetative, and reproductive growth and conferred multiple abiotic stress tolerance in a commercial cowpea variety. The transgenic lines displayed increased leaf area, thicker stem, nodule-rich denser root system, early flowering, higher pod production (∼3.2-fold and ∼2.1-fold), and greater seed weight (10.3% and 6.0%). In contrast, transient suppression of VuNAC1/2 caused severe growth retardation and flower inhibition. The overexpressor lines showed remarkable tolerance to major yield-declining terminal stresses, such as drought, salinity, heat, and cold, and recovered growth and seed production by boosting photosynthetic activity, water use efficiency, membrane integrity, Na
Anthocyanins are water-soluble pigments present in several tissues/parts of plants. The pigments provide color and are wildly known for health benefits for human, insect attraction for plant pollination, and stress resistance in plants. Anthocyanin content variations in mungbean [
The main aim of this study was to identify the bZIP family members in mung bean and explore their expression patterns under several abiotic stresses, with the overarching goal of elucidating their biological functions. Results identified 75 bZIP members in mung bean, which were unevenly distributed in the chromosomes (1-11), and all had a highly conserved bZIP domain. Phylogenetic analysis divided the members into 10 subgroups, with members in the same subgroup having similar structure and motif. The
The flowering characteristics of adzuki bean are influenced by several environmental factors. Light is an important ecological factor that induces flowering in adzuki bean, but to date, there have been few reports on the transcriptomic features of photoperiodic regulation of adzuki bean flowering. This study is based on RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) techniques to elucidate the expression of light-related regulatory genes under short-day photoperiod inducement of adzuki bean flowering, providing an important theoretical basis for its accelerated breeding. Short-day photoperiod inducement of 10 h was conducted for 5 day, 10 day, and 15 day periods on "Tang shan hong xiao dou" varieties, which are more sensitive to short-day photoperiod conditions than the other varieties. Plants grown under natural light (14.5 h) for 5 days, 10 days, and 15 days were used as controls to compare the progress of flower bud differentiation and flowering characteristics. The topmost unfolded functional leaves were selected for transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. The short-day photoperiod inducement promoted flower bud differentiation and advanced flowering time in adzuki bean. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 5,608 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) for the combination of CK-5d vs. SD-5d, CK-10d vs. SD-10d, and CK-15d vs. SD-15d. The three groups of the DEGs were analyzed using the Gene Ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genomes and Genomes (KEGG) databases; the DEGs were associated with flowering, photosystem, and the circadian rhythm and were mainly concentrated in the hormone signaling and metabolism, circadian rhythm, and antenna protein pathways; So, 13 light-related genes across the three pathways were screened for differential and expression characteristics. Through the functional annotations of orthologs, these genes were related to flowering, which were supposed to be good candidate genes in adzuki bean. The findings provide a deep understanding of the molecular mechanisms of adzuki bean flowering in response to short-day photoperiod inducement, which laid a foundation for the functional verification of genes in the next step, and provide an important reference for the molecular breeding of adzuki bean.
Mung bean is a short-duration and essential food crop owing to its cash prominence in Asia. Mung bean seeds are rich in protein, fiber, antioxidants, and phytonutrients. The NAC transcription factors (TFs) family is a large plant-specific family, participating in tissue development regulation and abiotic and biotic stresses. In this study, we perform genome-wide comparisons of VrNAC with their homologs from Arabidopsis. We identified 81 NAC transcription factors (TFs) in mung bean genome and named as per their chromosome location. A phylogenetic analysis revealed that VrNACs are broadly distributed in nine groups. Moreover, we identified 20 conserved motifs across the VrNACs highlighting their roles in different biological process. Based on the gene structure of the putative VrNAC and segmental duplication events might be playing a vital role in the expansion of mung bean genome. A comparative phylogenetic analysis of mung bean NAC together with homologs from Arabidopsis allowed us to classify NAC genes into 13 groups, each containing several orthologs and paralogs. Gene ontology (GO) analysis categorized the VrNACs into biological process, cellular components and molecular functions, explaining the functions in different plant physiology processes. A gene co-expression network analysis identified 173 genes involved in the transcriptional network of putative VrNAC genes. We also investigated how miRNAs potentially target VrNACs and shape their interactions with proteins. VrNAC1.4 (Vradi01g03390.1) was targeted by the Vra-miR165 family, including 9 miRNAs. Vra-miR165 contributes to leaf development and drought tolerance. We also performed qRT-PCR on 22 randomly selected VrNAC genes to assess their expression patterns in the NM-98 genotype, widely known for being tolerant to drought and bacterial leaf spot disease. This genome-wide investigation of VrNACs provides a unique resource for further detailed investigations aimed at predicting orthologs functions and what role the play under abiotic and biotic stress, with the ultimate aim to improve mung bean production under diverse environmental conditions.
Phenolic compounds are one of the wholesome substances of mung bean sprouts, showing numerous health-promoting functions. Here, effects of sucrose on phenolic compounds profiles of mung bean sprouts were investigated. Results showed that the content and composition of phenolic compounds were significantly altered by 1‰ and 5‰ sucrose, respectively. The antioxidant capacity was significantly improved by sucrose. Based on metabolomics, 251 metabolites were detected, of which 106 were phenolic compounds. Correlation analysis showed 21 phenolics were positively correlated with antioxidant capacity. The changes in phenolic composition and antioxidant capacity after sucrose treatment were mainly due to the enrichment of phenolic biosynthesis pathways. Moreover, the gene expression and enzyme activity analysis of key phenolic biosynthetic genes contributed to elucidate the phenolic profile under sucrose treatment. In summary, mung bean sprouts are promising sources of dietary phenolic compounds and sucrose treatment is a good process to produce phenolic-rich mung bean sprouts.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek) is an important legume crop of Asia. Salt concentrations typically causes major yield reductions in mungbean. Although the biochemical and genetic basis of salt tolerance-related gene are well studied in Arabidopsis and soybean, limited information concerning the salt tolerance-related genes in mungbean. To address this issue, we mined salt tolerance related genes using the survival rate trait and 160,1405 SNPs in 112 mungbean accessions. As a result, VrFRO8 significantly associated with salt-stress were identified in the GWAS analysis. The candidate gene VrFRO8 was evidenced by comparative genomics, transcriptome and RT-qPCR analysis. The expression level of VrFRO8 was significantly up-regulated (P-value = 0.001) after salt treatment compared with the control group. Moreover, 188 genes and 158 transcription factors related to salt-stress signal transduction pathway were mined, and 18 genes (18/188) had higher expression level in the salt-tolerant varieties than salt-sensitive varieties. And, the function of VrFRO8 was predicted in mungbean, the protein interaction between VrFRO8 and seven related-genes were found by molecular structure analysis. VrFRO8 might reduce SOD contents by influence Fe
It is essential to develop high salt-tolerant rice varieties in order to cultivate the salt-affected lands. In this study, Na
Biofortification is a method that improves the nutritional value of food crops through conventional plant breeding. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of intra-amniotic administration of soluble extracts from zinc (Zn) biofortified and Zn standard cowpea ( Seven treatment groups were utilized: (1) No Injection; (2) 18 MΩ H2O; (3) 50 mg/mL Inulin; (4) 50 mg/mL BRS Pajeú soluble extract (Zn standard); (5) 50 mg/mL BRS Aracê soluble extract (Zn biofortified); (6) 50 mg/mL BRS Imponente soluble extract (Zn biofortified); (7) 50 mg/mL BRS Xiquexique soluble extract (Zn biofortified). Treatment groups with BRS Imponente and BRS Xiquexique reduced the abundance of This study demonstrates the potential nutritional benefit of standard and biofortified cowpea treatment groups to improve intestinal morphology, BBM functionality, inflammation, and gut microbiota, with the highest effect of BRS Xiquexique soluble extracts to improve assessed cecal microflora populations and intestinal morphology.
A variety of pesticides are often used in agricultural management to control target pests but may trigger disruptions in the metabolism of nontarget organisms, ultimately affecting crop quality. Acetamiprid (ACE) and cyromazine (CYR) are two frequently used insecticides on cowpea, so it is critical to understand whether these two insecticides cause metabolic disorders in cowpea quality changes and the mechanism by which they do so. Here, we used metabolomic and transcriptomic methods to explore the mechanisms of the effects of ACE, CYR, and their mixture (MIX) on cowpea. In this study, ACE, CYR and MIX had no significant effects on plant biomass or growth status but decreased the contents of starch, soluble protein, and total flavonoids. All treatments reduced the total flavonoid content, but MIX showed the largest reduction of 10.02%. Metabolomic and transcriptomic analyses revealed that ACE markedly affected amino acid metabolism, and CYR and MIX affected sugar metabolism and flavonoid synthesis pathways. ACE and CYR reduced the levels of alanine, glutamic acid, isoleucine and phenylalanine and the expression of amino acid-related genes in cowpea, while MIX significantly increased the levels of most amino acids. All pesticide treatments reduced saccharide levels and related genes, with the most pronounced reduction in the MIX treatment. Exposure to ACE decreased the content of naringenin chalcone and quercetin and increased the content of anthocyanins in cowpeas, while MIX caused a significant decrease in the contents of quercetin and anthocyanins. According to the current study, single and mixed pesticides had different effects on the active ingredients of cowpea, with MIX causing the most significant decrease in the metabolite content of cowpea. These results provide important insights from a molecular perspective on how neonicotinoids and triazine insecticides affect cowpea metabolism.
CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED 1 like (CCA1L) proteins are important components that participate in plant growth and development, and now have been characterized in multiple plant species. However, information on mungbean CCA1L genes is limited. In this study, we identified 27 VrCCA1L genes from the mungbean genome. VrCCA1L genes were unevenly distributed on 10 of the 11 chromosomes and showed one tandem and two interchromosomal duplication events. Two distinct kinds of conserved MYB domains, MYB 1 and MYB 2, were found, and the conserved SHAQK(Y/F) F sequence was found at the C terminus of each MYB 2 domain. The VrCCA1Ls displayed a variety of exon-intron organizations, and 24 distinct motifs were found among these genes. Based on phylogenetic analysis, VrCCA1L proteins were classified into five groups; group I contained the most members, with 11 VrCCA1Ls. VrCCA1L promoters contained different types and numbers of cis-acting elements, and VrCCA1Ls showed different expression levels in different tissues. The VrCCA1Ls also displayed distinct expression patterns under different photoperiod conditions throughout the day in leaves. VrCCA1L26 shared greatest homology to Arabidopsis CCA1 and LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL (LHY). It delayed the flowering time in Arabidopsis by affecting the expression levels of CONSTANS (CO), FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT), and SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CONSTANS 1 (SOC1). We identified and characterized 27 VrCCA1L genes from mungbean genome, and investigated their spatio-temporal expression patterns. Further analysis revealed that VrCCA1L26 delayed flowering time in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Our results provide useful information for further functional characterization of the VrCCA1L genes.
Sugar transporter proteins (STPs) are membrane proteins required for sugar transport throughout cellular membranes. They plays an imperative role in sugar transmission across the plant and determinants of crop yield. However, the analysis of these important STPs Sugars Will Eventually be Exported Transporters (SWEET) family in legumes is still not well-documented and remains unclear. Therefore, the in-silico analysis of STPs has been performed to unravel their cellular, molecular, and structural composition in legume species. This study conducted a systematic search for STPs in Cajanus cajan using the Blastp algorithm to understand its molecular basis. Here, we performed a comprehensive analysis of 155 identified SWEET proteins across 12 legumes species, namely (Cajanus cajan, Glycine max, Vigna radiate, Vigna angularis, Medicago truncatula, Lupinus angustifolius, Glycine soja, Spatholobus suberectus, Cicer arietinum, Arachis ipaensis, Arachis hypogaea, Arachis duranensis). The amino acid composition and motif analysis revealed that SWEET proteins are rich in essential amino acids such as leucine, valine, isoleucine, phenylalanine, and serine while less profuse in glutamine, tryptophan, cysteine, and histidine. A total of four main conserved motifs of SWEET proteins are also highly abundant in these amino acids. The present study deciphered the details on primary physicochemical properties, secondary, tertiary structure, and phylogenetic analysis of SWEETs protein. Majorities of SWEET proteins (72.26%) are in stable form with an average instability index of 36.5%, and it comprises a higher fraction of positively charged amino acid Arg + Lys residues. Secondary structure analysis shown that these proteins are richer in alpha-helix (40%) than extended strand (30%) and random coil (25%), respectively. Furthermore, to infer their mechanism at a structural and functional level which play an essential roles in growth, development, and stress responses. This study will be useful to examine photosynthetic productivity, embryo sugar content, seed quality, and yield enhancement in Fabaceae for a sustainable source of essential amino acids and carbon source.
The underutilized species Vigna aconitifolia (Moth Bean) is an important legume crop cultivated in semi-arid conditions and is valued for its seeds for their high protein content. It is also a popular green manure cover crop that offers many agronomic benefits including nitrogen fixation and soil nutrients. Despite its economic potential, genomic resources for this crop are scarce and there is limited knowledge on the developmental process of this plant at a molecular level. In the present communication, we have studied the molecular mechanisms that regulate plant development in V. aconitifolia, with a special focus on flower and seed development. We believe that this study will greatly enrich the genomic resources for this plant in form of differentially expressed genes, transcription factors, and genic molecular markers. We have performed the de novo transcriptome assembly using six types of tissues from various developmental stages of Vigna aconitifolia (var. RMO-435), namely, leaves, roots, flowers, pods, and seed tissue in the early and late stages of development, using the Illumina NextSeq platform. We assembled the transcriptome to get 150938 unigenes with an average length of 937.78 bp. About 79.9% of these unigenes were annotated in public databases and 12839 of those unigenes showed a significant match in the KEGG database. Most of the unigenes displayed significant differential expression in the late stages of seed development as compared with leaves. We annotated 74082 unigenes as transcription factors and identified 12096 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) in the genic regions of V.aconitifolia. Digital expression analysis revealed specific gene activities in different tissues which were validated using Real-time PCR analysis. The Vigna aconitifolia transcriptomic resources generated in this study provide foundational resources for gene discovery with respect to various developmental stages. This study provides the first comprehensive analysis revealing the genes involved in molecular as well as metabolic pathways that regulate seed development and may be responsible for the unique nutritive values of moth bean seeds. Hence, this study would serve as a foundation for characterization of candidate genes which would not only provide novel insights into understanding seed development but also provide resources for improved moth bean and related species genetic enhancement.
Late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins are identified in many crops for their response and role in adaptation to various abiotic stresses, such as drought, salinity, and temperature. The
In plants, RNA interference (RNAi) is triggered by double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). Accordingly, various RNA silencing technologies involving hpRNA, artificial microRNA (miRNA), and virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) are used for controlling the expression of genes. Such manipulations help understanding gene functions and crop improvement biotechnology. A typical hpRNA construct is comprised of an intron splicable perfect inverted repeat of the target gene sequences under the control of a strong promoter. Geminiviruses, especially Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV) cause devastating diseases in legume plants including cowpea, incurring severe crop loss. RNAi, involving hpRNA construct as transgene, is used to control these diseases at the early stages of geminivirus infection in the host, preventing symptom development and viral DNA accumulation. In this chapter, we describe a detailed protocol for the identification of geminivirus isolates from the filed grown cowpea plants, characterization of virus isolates under the laboratory conditions, design and construct RNAi vectors for effective suppression of viral target genes, and consequent development of transgenic cowpea using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation protocol. These transgenics are subsequently evaluated for resistance to MYMIV.
Chewing herbivores activate plant defense responses through a combination of mechanical wounding and elicitation by herbivore-associated molecular patterns (HAMPs). HAMPs are wound response amplifiers; however, specific defense outputs may also exist that strictly require HAMP-mediated defense signaling. To investigate HAMP-mediated signaling and defense responses, we characterized cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) transcriptome changes following elicitation by inceptin, a peptide HAMP common in Lepidoptera larvae oral secretions. Following inceptin treatment, we observed large-scale reprogramming of the transcriptome consistent with three different response categories: (i) amplification of mechanical wound responses, (ii) temporal extension through accelerated or prolonged responses, and (iii) examples of inceptin-specific elicitation and suppression. At both early and late timepoints, namely 1 and 6 h, large sets of transcripts specifically accumulated following inceptin elicitation. Further early inceptin-regulated transcripts were classified as reversing changes induced by wounding alone. Within key signaling- and defense-related gene families, inceptin-elicited responses included target subsets of wound-induced transcripts. Transcripts displaying the largest inceptin-elicited fold changes included transcripts encoding terpene synthases (TPSs) and peroxidases (POXs) that correspond with induced volatile production and increased POX activity in cowpea. Characterization of inceptin-elicited cowpea defenses via heterologous expression in Nicotiana benthamiana demonstrated that specific cowpea TPSs and POXs were able to confer terpene emission and the reduced growth of beet armyworm (Spodoptera exigua) herbivores, respectively. Collectively, our present findings in cowpea support a model where HAMP elicitation both amplifies concurrent wound responses and specifically contributes to the activation of selective outputs associated with direct and indirect antiherbivore defenses.
Chilling injury of mung bean (Vigna radiata (L.)) during the blooming and podding stages is a major agricultural threat in Northeast China. Uniconazole (UNZ) can alleviate water deficit stress in soybean and waterlogging stress in mung bean. However, there has been no report on the effect of UNZ application on the growth and transcriptomic profile of mung bean under chilling stress. UNZ application before chilling stress at the R1 stage alleviated the decline in mung bean yield. UNZ delayed the decrease in leaf chlorophyll content under chilling stress at the R1 stage and accelerated the increase in leaf chlorophyll content during the recovery period. Eighteen separate RNA-Seq libraries were generated from RNA samples collected from leaves exposed to six different treatment schemes. The numbers of DEGs specific for UNZ treatment between D1 + S vs. D1 and D4 + S vs. D4 were 708 and 810, respectively. GO annotations showed that photosynthesis genes were obviously enriched among the genes affected by chilling stress and UNZ application. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis indicated that 4 pathways (cutin, suberin and wax biosynthesis; photosynthesis; porphyrin and chlorophyll metabolism; and ribosome) were downregulated, while plant-pathogen interaction was upregulated, by chilling stress. UNZ application effectively prevented the further downregulation of the gene expression of members of these 4 KEGG pathways under chilling stress. UNZ application effectively delayed the decrease in photosynthetic pigment content under chilling stress and accelerated the increase in photosynthetic pigment content during the recovery period, thus effectively limiting the decline in mung bean yield. UNZ application effectively prevented the further downregulation of the gene expression of members of 4 KEGG pathways under chilling stress and increased mung bean tolerance to chilling stress.
Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is one of the most tolerant legume crops to drought and salt stresses. WRKY transcription factor (TF) family members stand out among plant transcriptional regulators related to abiotic stress tolerance. However, little information is currently available on the expression of the cowpea WRKY gene family (VuWRKY) in response to water deficit. Thus, we analyzed genomic and transcriptomic data from cowpea to identify VuWRKY members and characterize their structure and transcriptional response under root dehydration stress. Ninety-two complete VuWRKY genes were found in the cowpea genome based on their domain characteristics. They were clustered into three groups: I (15 members), II (58), and III (16), while three genes were unclassified. Domain analysis of the encoded proteins identified four major variants of the conserved heptapeptide motif WRKYGQK. In silico analysis of VuWRKY gene promoters identified eight candidate binding motifs of cis-regulatory elements, regulated mainly by six TF families associated with abiotic stress responses. Ninety-seven VuWRKY modulated splicing variants associated with 55 VuWRKY genes were identified via RNA-Seq analysis available at the Cowpea Genomics Consortium (CpGC) database. qPCR analyses showed that 22 genes are induced under root dehydration, with VuWRKY18, 21, and 75 exhibiting the most significant induction levels. Given their central role in activating signal transduction cascades in abiotic stress response, the data provide a foundation for the targeted modification of specific VuWRKY family members to improve drought tolerance in this important climate-resilient legume in the developing world and beyond.
Mungbean yellow mosaic virus (MYMV) disease is a significant constraint for blackgram production. The present study employed a mapping population derived from a cross between susceptible (MDU 1) and resistant (TU 68) genotypes to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with MYMV disease resistance in addition to bruchine resistance loci identified from the previous study. Phenotyping was carried out in F2 generation under the disease spreader row method at field condition. Disease score observations were carried out 60 days after sowing (DAS). The chi-square goodness of fit test revealed inhibitory gene action with two genes controlling the expression of resistance to MYMV disease. However, QTL analysis revealed one major QTL region, i.e.
Shading stress strongly limits the effective growth of plants. Understanding how plant morphogenesis and physiological adaptation are generated in response to the reduced low light conditions is important for food crop development. In this study, two mung bean (
We analyze the application filed for the marketing and cultivation of genetically engineered Bt cowpea (event AAT 709A) approved in Nigeria in 2019. Cowpea (
Cadmium (Cd) accumulation in agricultural soils constitutes a serious problem for crop yields and food safety. It is known that proline (Pro) can rapidly accumulate in plant tissues in response to abiotic stress. To analyze the potential protective effect of Pro accumulation against Cd toxicity, we compared the response to Cd stress of wild-type (WT)
Multiple lines of evidence indicate that solar UV-B light acts as an important environmental signal in plants, regulating various cellular and metabolic activities, gene expression, growth and development. Here, we show that low levels of UV-B (4.0 kJ m-2) significantly influence plant response during early seedling development in the tropical legume crop Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek. Exposure to low doses of UV-B showed relatively less growth inhibition yet remarkably enhanced lateral root formation in seedlings. Both low and high (8.0 kJ m-2) doses of UV-B treatment induced DNA double-strand breaks and activated the SOG1-related ATM-ATR-mediated DNA damage response pathway. These effects led to G2-M-phase arrest with a compromised expression of the key cell cycle regulators, including CDKB1;1, CDKB2;1 and CYCB1;1, respectively. However, along with these effects, imbibitional exposure of seeds to a low UV-B dose resulted in enhanced accumulation of FZR1/CCS52A, E2Fa and WEE1 kinase and prominent induction of endoreduplication in 7-day-old seedlings. Low dose of UV-B mediated phenotypical responses, while the onset of endoreduplication appeared to be regulated at least in part via UV-B induced reactive oxygen species accumulation. Transcriptome analyses further revealed a network of co-regulated genes associated with DNA repair, cell cycle regulation and oxidative stress response pathways that are activated upon exposure to low doses of UV-B.
Due to drought stress, the growth, distribution, and production of mungbean is severely restricted. Previous study combining physiological and transcriptomic data indicated different genotypes of mungbean exhibited variable responses when exposed to drought stress. Aside from the genetic variation, the modifications of environmentally induced epigenetics alterations on mungbean drought-stress responses were still elusive. In this study, firstly, we compared the drought tolerance capacity at seedling stage by detecting physiological parameters in two contrasting genotypes wild mungbean 61 and cultivar 70 in response to drought stress. We found that wild mungbean 61 showed lower level of MDA and higher levels of POD and CAT, suggesting wild mungbean 61 exhibited stronger drought resistance. Transcriptomic analysis indicated totally 2859 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were detected when 70 compared with 61 (C70 vs C61), and the number increased to 3121 in the comparison of drought-treated 70 compared with drought-treated 61 (D70 vs D61). In addition, when drought-treated 61 and 70 were compared with their controls, the DEGs were 1117 and 185 respectively, with more down-regulated DEGs than up-regulated in D61 vs C61, which was opposite in D70 vs C70. Interestingly, corresponding to this, after drought stress, more hypermethylated differentially methylated regions (DMRs) in 61 were detected and more hypomethylated DMRs in 70 were detected. Further analysis suggested that the main variations between 61 and 70 existed in CHH methylation in promoter. Moreover, the preference of methylation status alterations in D61 vs C61 and D70 vs C70 also fell in CHH sequence context. Further analysis of the correlation between DMRs and DEGs indicated in both D61 vs C61 and D70 vs C70, the DMRs in gene body was significantly negatively correlated with DEGs. The physiological parameters in this research suggested that wild mungbean 61 was more resistant to drought stress, with more hypermethylated DMRs and less hypomethylated DMRs after drought stress, corresponding to more down-regulated DEGs than up-regulated DEGs. Among the three DNA methylation contexts CG, CHG, and CHH, asymmetric CHH contexts were more dynamic and prone to be altered by drought stress and genotypic variations.
In a breeding program, studies of genotypic and phenotypic relationships among agricultural crop traits are useful to design, evaluate, and develop selection criteria for desirable traits. Using path coefficient analysis, the present study was executed to estimate the phenotypic, genotypic, and environmental correlation coefficients between yield and yield-related traits and to determine the direct and indirect effects of yield-related traits on yield per plant. A total of 30 genotypes of Vigna subterranea were studied under tropical conditions at two sites over two planting seasons (considered as four environments). The experiment at each site used a randomized complete block design with three replicates. Data were collected on vegetative and yield component attributes. Based on analysis of variance, pooled results showed that there were positive and highly significant differences (p ≤ 0.01) among the 30 genotypes for all attributes studied. Highly significant and positive strong correlation at phenotypic level was observed for dry seed weight (0.856), hundred seed weight (0.754), fresh pod weight (0.789), and total pod weight (0.626) with yield in kg per hectare, while moderate positive correlations were observed for harvest cut (0.360) and days to maturity (0.356). However, a perfect positive correlation was observed for the dry weight of pods with seed yield. In contrast, days to 50% flowering (- 0.350) showed a negative significant relationship with yield per hectare. The dried pod weight attribute (1.00) had a high positive direct effect on yield. Fresh pod weight had the greatest indirect effect on yield per hectare, followed by the number of total pods by dry pod weight. As a result, dry pod weight, hundred seed weight, number of total pods, and fresh pod weight could be used as selection criteria to improve the seed yield of Bambara groundnut (Vigna subterranea).
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L. Wilczek) is an economically important grain legume crop in Asia, with high nutritional quality and potential in other parts of the world particularly arid and semiarid regions. Considering the potential adverse effects of drought, high salt, and other abiotic stresses on crop yield, significant efforts have been made to understand the underlying molecular mechanisms of tolerance to these abiotic stresses in legumes. In this study, a total of 186 putative AP2/ERF genes were identified, which were named VrERF1-186. These VrERF genes were classified into four main subfamilies according to the number of AP2 domains and sequence similarity, including 24 AP2 gene members, 81 ERF gene members, 79 DREB gene members, and 2 RAV members. VrERF genes are scattered across all 11 chromosomes and form small gene clusters on chromosomes due to segmental or tandem duplication. Promoter analysis revealed various cis-acting elements related to light, hormones, and stress responsiveness processes. The expression profiles of the VrERF genes in tissues during development and in response to abiotic stresses were assessed by transcriptome sequencing, and the selected reference genes were validated by qRT-PCR. A total of 174 VrERF genes were expressed in at least one of five tissues, while others showed distinct expression patterns in different tissues or under specific abiotic stress treatments, which indicates that VrERF genes are involved in developmental and environmental stress responses in V. radiata. In conclusion, the genome localization, genome-wide characterization, gene duplication, phylogenetic relationships, and expression pattern of VrERF genes in V. radiata were analyzed, and these results will lay the foundation for further functional analysis of these genes and improve stress tolerance to adverse conditions in plants.
The Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and its receptor (MET) promote several physiological activities such as tissue regeneration and protection from cell injury of epithelial, endothelial, neuronal and muscle cells. The therapeutic potential of MET activation has been scrutinized in the treatment of acute tissue injury, chronic inflammation, such as renal fibrosis and multiple sclerosis (MS), cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases. On the other hand, the HGF-MET signaling pathway may be caught by cancer cells and turned to work for invasion, metastasis, and drug resistance in the tumor microenvironment. Here, we engineered a recombinant antibody (RDO24) and two derived fragments, binding the extracellular domain (ECD) of the MET protein. The antibody binds with high affinity (8 nM) to MET ECD and does not cross-react with the closely related receptors RON nor with Semaphorin 4D. Deletion mapping studies and computational modeling show that RDO24 binds to the structure bent on the Plexin-Semaphorin-Integrin (PSI) domain, implicating the PSI domain in its binding to MET. The intact RDO24 antibody and the bivalent Fab2, but not the monovalent Fab induce MET auto-phosphorylation, mimicking the mechanism of action of HGF that activates the receptor by dimerization. Accordingly, the bivalent recombinant molecules induce HGF biological responses, such as cell migration and wound healing, behaving as MET agonists of therapeutic interest in regenerative medicine.
Mungbean is an important pulse crop and is predominantly cultivated across Asia. However, its production is hampered by climate change-induced drought stress. Drought affects various morpho-physiological processes associated with growth and molecular functions. This study analyzed growth responses and The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-021-01089-w.
Adzuki bean is an important legume crop due to its high-quality protein, fiber, vitamins, minerals as well as rich bioactive substances. However, it is vulnerable to drought at the germination stage. However, little information is available about the genetic control of drought tolerance during seed germination in adzuki bean. In this study, some differential expression proteins (DEPs) were identified during seed germination between the drought-tolerant variety 17235 and drought-sensitive variety 17033 in adzuki bean using iTRAQ method. A total of 2834 proteins were identified in the germinating seeds of these two adzuki beans. Compared with the variety 17033, 87 and 80 DEPs were increased and decreased accumulation in variety 17235 under drought, respectively. Meanwhile, in the control group, a few DEPs, including 9 up-regulated and 21 down-regulated proteins, were detected in variety 17235, respectively. GO, KEGG, and PPI analysis revealed that the DEPs related to carbohydrate metabolism and energy production were significantly increased in response to drought stresses. To validate the proteomic function, the ectopic overexpression of V-ATPase in tobacco was performed and the result showed that V-ATPase upregulation could enhance the drought tolerance of tobacco. The results provide valuable insights into genetic response to drought stress in adzuki bean, and the DEPs could be applied to develop biomarkers related to drought tolerant in adzuki bean breeding projects.
Mung bean coat (MBC) is a good source of dietary fibre and phenolic compounds with medical properties, and can alleviate metabolic diseases. In the present study, the effects of MBC on high fat diet (HFD)-induced hyperlipidemia mice were evaluated, and the underlying mechanisms of MBC against hyperlipidemia from hepatic transcriptional analysis were explored. Four groups of mice were fed a normal control diet or a HFD with or without MBC supplementation (6%, w/w) for 12 weeks. The results demonstrated that MBC supplementation could effectively alleviate HFD-induced obese symptoms, such as body weight gain and white adipose tissue accumulation. Notably, the serum lipid profiles, including total triglyceride, total cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, were significantly lowered, accompanied by a significant improvement in hepatic steatosis. RNA-sequencing analysis indicated 1126 differential expression genes responding to MBC supplementation, and the PPAR signaling pathway was significantly enriched. Furthermore, MBC supplementation could significantly upregulate the transcriptional expression of lipid transformation (lipidolysis)-related genes (
The stem color of young mung bean is a very useful tool in germplasm identification. Flowering time and plant height (PH) are known to be strongly correlated with crop adaption and yield. However, few studies have focused on elucidating the genetic mechanisms that regulate these five particular traits: young stem color (YSC), days to first flowering (DFF), days to maturity (DM), PH, and nodes on the main stem (NMS). In this study, a genetic linkage map for the The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11032-021-01233-0.
Lectins are glycoproteins and known for their peculiar carbohydrate-binding activity and their insect-pest-resistant properties. Earlier we have published our research finding on novel gene encoding Bowman-Birk type protease inhibitor with insecticidal properties from rice bean. This paper presents first report on cloning, sequencing, and expression of RbL ORF of 843 bp encoding 280 amino acids long lectin precursor from rice bean (Vigna umbellata) seeds. Blast analysis revealed more than 90% similarity of RbL protein with Vigna aconitifolia and Vigna angularis lectins. Phylogenetic analysis also revealed a close relationship between RbL and other legume lectins. Sequence analysis of genomic DNA revealed intronless nature of RbL gene (GenBank accession No. MT043160). The isolated RbL ORF was expressed in E. coli BL-21(DE3) cells and maximum expression was recorded with 0.5 mM IPTG after 4 h incubation at 37 °C. Western blotting confirmed RbL protein expression in E. coli. Recombinant protein (His
Drought stress response studies and overexpression of vun-miR408 proved it to be essential for abiotic stress tolerance in cowpea. Small RNA and transcriptome sequencing of an elite high-yielding drought-tolerant Indian cowpea cultivar, Pusa Komal revealed a differential expression of 198 highly conserved, 21 legume-specific, 14 less-conserved, and 10 novel drought-responsive microRNAs (miRNAs) along with 3391 (up-regulated) and 3799 (down-regulated) genes, respectively, in the leaf and root libraries. Among the differentially expressed miRNAs, vun-miR408-3p, showed an up-regulation of 3.53-log
This study aimed to investigate the optimal hypoxic and monosodium glutamate (MSG) stress conditions for the enrichment of γ-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) in germinating adzuki beans and to reveal the potential underlying molecular mechanisms of GABA accumulation. Using single-factor experiments and response surface model, we investigated the effects of germination time, germination temperature, vacuum time, and MSG concentration on GABA contents, and further explored the activity and gene expression of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) and polyamine oxidase (PAO) critical rate restriction enzymes during GABA synthesis. The optimal soaking temperature, soaking time, and pH conditions were 35°C, 16 h, and 5, respectively. Furthermore, the optimal germination conditions for optimal GABA enrichment were 48 h, 1.99 mg/ml MSG concentration, germination temperature of 31.49°C, and vacuum time of 15.83 h. Under such conditions, the predicted GABA concentration was 443.57 ± 7.18 mg/100 g, with no significant difference between the predicted and experimental data. The vacuum + MSG (FZM) treatment has a maximum contribution rate of GABA to 38.29%, which significantly increase GABA content, and the increase was associated with increased GAD and PAO activity. In addition, MSG in combination with vacuum treatment could significantly induce
High salinity is a devastating abiotic stresses for crops. To understand the molecular basis of salinity stress in yardlong bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis), and to develop robust markers for improving this trait in germplasm, whole transcriptome RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was conducted to compare the salt-tolerant variety Suzi 41 and salt-sensitive variety Sujiang 1419 under normal and salt stress conditions. Compared with controls, 417 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified under exposure to high salinity, including 42 up- and 11 down-regulated DEGs in salt-tolerant Suzi 41 and 186 up- and 197 down-regulated genes in salt-sensitive Sujiang 1419, validated by qRT-PCR. DEGs were enriched in "Glycolysis/Gluconeogenesis" (ko00010), "Cutin, suberine and wax biosynthesis" (ko00073), and "phenylpropanoid biosynthesis" (ko00940) in Sujiang 1419, although "cysteine/methionine metabolism" (ko00270) was the only pathway significantly enriched in salt-tolerant Suzi 41. Notably, AP2/ERF, LR48, WRKY, and bHLH family transcription factors (TFs) were up-regulated under high salt conditions. Genetic diversity analysis of 84 yardlong bean accessions using 26 InDel markers developed here could distinguish salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive varieties. These findings show a limited set of DEGs, primarily TFs, respond to salinity stress in V. unguiculata, and that these InDels associated with salt-inducible loci are reliable for diversity analysis.
Mung bean (Vigna radiata) is a warm-season legume crop and belongs to the papilionoid subfamily of the Fabaceae family. China is the leading producer of mung bean in the world. Mung bean has significant economic and health benefits and is a promising species with broad adaptation ability and high tolerance to environmental stresses. OSCA (hyperosmolality-gated calcium-permeable channel) gene family members play an important role in the modulation of hypertonic stress, such as drought and salinity. However, genome-wide analysis of the OSCA gene family has not been conducted in mung bean. We identified a total of 13 OSCA genes in the mung bean genome and named them according to their homology with AtOSCAs. All the OSCAs were phylogenetically split into four clades. Phylogenetic relationship and synteny analyses showed that the VrOSCAs in mung bean and soybean shared a relatively conserved evolutionary history. In addition, three duplicated VrOSCA gene pairs were identified, and the duplicated VrOSCAs gene pairs mainly underwent purifying selection pressure during evolution. Protein domain, motif and transmembrane analyses indicated that most of the VrOSCAs shared similar structures with their homologs. The expression pattern showed that except for VrOSCA2.1, the other 12 VrOSCAs were upregulated under treatment with ABA, PEG and NaCl, among which VrOSCA1.4 showed the largest increased expression levels. The duplicated genes VrOSCA2.1/VrOSCA2.2 showed divergent expression, which might have resulted in functionalization during subsequent evolution. The expression profiles under ABA, PEG and NaCl stress revealed a functional divergence of VrOSCA genes, which agreed with the analysis of cis-acting regulatory elements in the promoter regions of VrOSCA genes. Collectively, the study provided a systematic analysis of the VrOSCA gene family in mung bean. Our results establish an important foundation for functional and evolutionary analysis of VrOSCAs and identify genes for further investigation of their ability to confer abiotic stress tolerance in mung bean.
Yeast is a dominant host for recombinant production of heterologous proteins, high-value biochemical compounds, and microbial fermentation. During bioprocess operations, pH fluctuations, organic solvents, drying, starvation, osmotic pressure, and often a combination of these stresses cause growth inhibition or death, markedly limiting its industrial use. Thus, stress-tolerant yeast strains with balanced energy-bioenergetics are highly desirous for sustainable improvement of quality biotechnological production. We isolated two NAC transcription factors (TFs), VuNAC1 and VuNAC2, from a wild cowpea genotype, improving both stress tolerance and growth when expressed in yeast. The GFP-fused proteins were localized to the nucleus. Y2H and reporter assay demonstrated the dimerization and transactivation abilities of the VuNAC proteins having structural folds similar to rice SNAC1. The gel-shift assay indicated that the TFs recognize an "ATGCGTG" motif for DNA-binding shared by several native TFs in yeast. The heterologous expression of VuNAC1/2 in yeast improved growth, biomass, lifespan, fermentation efficiency, and altered cellular composition of biomolecules. The transgenic strains conferred tolerance to multiple stresses such as high salinity, osmotic stress, freezing, and aluminum toxicity. Analysis of the metabolome revealed reprogramming of major pathways synthesizing nucleotides, vitamin B complex, amino acids, antioxidants, flavonoids, and other energy currencies and cofactors. Consequently, the transcriptional tuning of stress signaling and biomolecule metabolism improved the survival of the transgenic strains during starvation and stress recovery. VuNAC1/2-based synthetic gene expression control may contribute to designing robust industrial yeast strains with value-added productivity.
The Teosinte branched 1/Cycloidea/Proliferating cell factor (TCP) transcription factors are potent growth and developmental regulators in plants, also responsive to various hormonal and environmental stimuli. In this study, we primarily focused on the functional role of TCP9, a nuclear-localised Class-I TCP transcription factor in a drought and heat-tolerant legume crop, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Under drought stress, a higher protein expression level of TCP9 was observed in the leaves of the drought-tolerant cowpea cultivar Pusa Komal as compared to the drought-sensitive cultivar TVu-7778. Further, overexpression of VuTCP9 resulted in reduced cell and stomata size, aperture length and width while cell and overall stomatal density in the 35S::VuTCP9 transgenic cowpea lines increased. Phenotypic alterations, such as reduced leaf size and vigour, altered seed coats displaying extension pattern similar to the 'Watson pattern' and delayed senescence were prominent in the transgenic lines. Under normal conditions, the gas exchange and fluorescence measurements indicated reduction in transpiration rate (E), stomatal conductance (g
Host-specific legume-rhizobium symbiosis is strictly controlled by rhizobial type III effectors (T3Es) in some cases. Here, we demonstrated that the symbiosis of Vigna radiata (mung bean) with Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens USDA110 is determined by NopE, and this symbiosis is highly dependent on host genotype. NopE specifically triggered incompatibility with V. radiata cv. KPS2, but it promoted nodulation in other varieties of V. radiata, including KPS1. Interestingly, NopE1 and its paralogue NopE2, which exhibits calcium-dependent autocleavage, yield similar results in modulating KPS1 nodulation. Furthermore, NopE is required for early infection and nodule organogenesis in compatible plants. Evolutionary analysis revealed that NopE is highly conserved among bradyrhizobia and plant-associated endophytic and pathogenic bacteria. Our findings suggest that V. radiata and B. diazoefficiens USDA110 may use NopE to optimize their symbiotic interactions by reducing phytohormone-mediated ETI-type (PmETI) responses via salicylic acid (SA) biosynthesis suppression.
This study establishes possibility of combinatorial silencing of more than one functional gene for their efficacy against root-knot nematode, M. incognita. Root-knot nematodes (RKN) of the genus Meloidogyne are the key important plant parasitic nematodes (PPNs) in agricultural and horticultural crops worldwide. Among RKNs, M. incognita is the most notorious that demand exploration of novel strategies for their management. Due to its sustainable and target-specific nature, RNA interference (RNAi) has gained unprecedented importance to combat RKNs. However, based on the available genomic information and interaction studies, it can be presumed that RKNs are dynamic and not dependent on single genes for accomplishing a particular function. Therefore, it becomes extremely important to consider silencing of more than one gene to establish any synergistic or additive effect on nematode parasitism. In this direction, we have combined three effectors specific to subventral gland cells of M. incognita, Mi-msp1, Mi-msp16, Mi-msp20 as fusion cassettes-1 and two FMRFamide-like peptides, Mi-flp14, Mi-flp18, and Mi-msp20 as fusion cassettes-2 to establish their possible utility for M. incognita management. In vitro RNAi assay in tomato and adzuki bean using these two fusion gene negatively altered nematode behavior in terms of reduced attraction, invasion, development, and reproduction. Subsequently, Nicotiana tabacum plants were transformed with these two fusion gene hairpin RNA-expressing vectors (hpRNA), and characterized via PCR, qRT-PCR, and Southern blot hybridization. Production of siRNAs specific to Mi-flp18 and Mi-msp1 was also confirmed by Northern hybridization. Further, transgenic events expressing single copy insertions of hpRNA constructs of fusion 1 and fusion-2 conferred up to 85% reduction in M. incognita multiplication. Besides, expression quantification revealed a significant reduction in mRNA abundance of target genes (up to 1.8-fold) in M. incognita females extracted from transgenic plants, and provided additional evidence for successful gene silencing.
Seed coat colour is an important nutritional quality trait. Variations in anthocyanins and flavonoids induce the diversity of seed coat colour in adzuki bean (
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is an aggressive tumor characterized by the presence of an abundant stromal compartment contributing significantly to the malignant phenotype. Pancreatic stellate cells are peculiar fibroblasts present in the stroma and represent the predominant source of extracellular matrix proteins, pro-inflammatory cytokines, and growth factors, including hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). Exploiting a co-culture system of human pancreatic stellate cells and cancer cells, we demonstrated that fibroblast activation was reduced upon HGF/MET axis inhibition. To unveil the signaling pathways sustaining stroma modulation orchestrated by MET activation in the tumor, we analyzed the gene expression profile in pancreatic cancer cells stimulated with HGF and treated with HGF/MET inhibitors. Transcriptome analysis showed that, among all the genes modulated by HGF, a subset of 125 genes was restored to the basal level following treatment with the inhibitors. By examining these genes via ingenuity pathway analysis, tenascin C emerged as a promising candidate linking MET signaling and tumor microenvironment. MET-dependent tenascin C modulation in pancreatic cancer cells was validated at RNA and protein levels both in vitro and in vivo. In conclusion, this work identifies tenascin C as a gene modulated by MET activation, suggesting a role in MET-mediated tumor-stroma interplay occurring during pancreatic tumor progression.
Fusarium wilt is a destructive soil-borne disease that threatens the production of mung bean. Mung bean lines Zheng8-4 and Zheng8-20 show high resistance and high susceptibility to Fusarium wilt, respectively. Transcriptome analysis was carried out to identify candidate genes involved in Fusarium wilt resistance using Zheng8-4 and Zheng8-20 at 0, 0.5, 1, 2, and 4 days post inoculation (dpi). Differential expression analysis showed that 3,254 genes responded to pathogen infection and were differentially expressed in the resistant and susceptible lines. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was also performed to identify five modules highly correlated with Fusarium wilt resistance, in which 453 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were considered likely to be involved in Fusarium wilt resistance. Among these DEGs, we found 24 genes encoding resistance (R) proteins, 22 encoding protein kinases, 20 belonging to transcription factor families, 34 encoding proteins with oxidoreductase activity, 17 involved in stimulation/stress responses, and 54 annotated to pathogen resistance-related pathways. Finally, 27 annotated genes were further selected as candidate genes of Fusarium wilt resistance in mung bean. This study identifies novel potential resistance-related genes against Fusarium wilt and provides a theoretical basis for further investigation of Fusarium wilt resistance in mung bean breeding.
The present work represents a pioneering effort, being the first to analyze genomic and transcriptomic data from
Increasing attention has been focused on plant-derived peptides because of their potential bioactivities. In this study, bioactive peptides were released from extruded adzuki bean protein by simulated gastrointestinal digestion. A peptide (KQS-1) sequenced as KQSESHFVDAQPEQQQR was separated and identified using ultrafiltration, pre-high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and ultraperformance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS). KQS-1 was shown to exert significant anti-inflammatory effects in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages by reducing the production of IL-1, IL-6, TNF-α, and MCP-1 to 38.31, 6.07, 43.96, and 41.74%, respectively. The involved signaling pathways were identified by transcriptome analysis. Overall, 5236 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. Gene ontology (GO) functions demonstrated that DEGs were significantly related to the NF-κB pathway. In conclusion, KQS-1 prevented the activation and expression of NF-κB/caspase-1 by upstream and downstream factors. These findings highlight the bioactivity of adzuki bean peptides.
Polygenic genome-wide association mapping identified two regions of the cowpea genome associated with different components of resistance to its major post-harvest pest, the seed beetle Callosobruchus maculatus. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is an important grain and fodder crop in arid and semi-arid regions of Africa, Asia, and South America, where the cowpea seed beetle, Callosobruchus maculatus, is a serious post-harvest pest. Development of cultivars resistant to C. maculatus population growth in storage could increase grain yield and quality and reduce reliance on insecticides. Here, we use a MAGIC (multi-parent, advanced-generation intercross) population of cowpea consisting of 305 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) to identify genetic variants associated with resistance to seed beetles. Because inferences regarding the genetic basis of resistance may depend on the source of the pest or the assay protocol, we used two divergent geographic populations of C. maculatus and two complementary assays to measure several aspects of resistance. Using polygenic genome-wide association mapping models, we found that the cowpea RILs harbor substantial additive-genetic variation for most resistance measures. Variation in several components of resistance, including larval development time and survival, was largely explained by one or several linked loci on chromosome 5. A second region on chromosome 8 explained increased seed resistance via the induction of early-exiting larvae. Neither of these regions contained genes previously associated with resistance to insects that infest grain legumes. We found some evidence of gene-gene interactions affecting resistance, but epistasis did not contribute substantially to resistance variation in this mapping population. The combination of mostly high heritabilities and a relatively consistent and simple genetic architecture increases the feasibility of breeding for enhanced resistance to C. maculatus.
A simple and generally fast Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system with no tissue culture and selection steps has been developed for the first time in a recalcitrant food legume, cowpea. The approach involves wounding of 1-day-old germinated seeds with a needle or sonication either alone or in combination of vacuum infiltration with A. tumefaciens EH105 (pCAMBIA2301) carrying a β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene (uidA) and a neomycin phosphotransferase (nptII) gene for stable transformation. Sonicated and vacuum infiltrated seedlings showed the highest transient GUS activity in 90% of the explants. The sprouted co-cultured seeds directly established in soil and without selection were allowed to develop into plants which on maturity produced T
Light affects the accumulation of vitamin E and carotenoids in many crops. This study investigated the impact of photoperiods on the metabolic regulation of vitamin E and carotenoids in mung bean sprouts considering their dietary health benefits. Mung beans were germinated under three different photoperiods: constant light, semilight and constant dark. Results revealed that the semilight photoperiod was optimum for vitamin E and carotenoid accumulation in mung bean sprouts. DXS was activated in the constant dark and was inhibited by constant light. GGPPS and HPT were sensitive to semilight photoperiod in the vitamin E biosynthetic pathway, playing dominant roles in vitamin E accumulation. The PSY, LCYE, LUT5, LUT1 and ZE genes, which are associated with carotenoid biosynthesis, were activated under semilight treatment and significantly regulated the accumulation of carotenoids. This knowledge improves knowledge on light-mediated regulation of vitamin E and carotenoids in mung bean sprouts.
The present study aimed to investigate the effects of mungbean water extract (MWE) on insulin downstream signaling in insulin-resistant HepG2 cells. Whole seed mungbean was extracted using boiling water, mimicking a traditional cooking method. Vitexin and isovitexin were identified in MWE. The results showed that MWE inhibited protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP)-1B (IC
Although nitric oxide (NO) is a key regulatory molecule in plants, its function in plants under conditions of simulated acid rain (SAR) has not been fully established yet. In this study, exogenous sodium nitroprusside (SNP) at three different concentrations were applied to mung bean seedlings. Malondialdehyde (MDA), NO, hydrogen peroxide (H
Fluoride exporter genes (FEX) are known for the expulsion of cytoplasmic fluoride, thus preventing fluoride toxicity in plants. In this study, 31 FEX genes were identified across 19 plant species. Camphor Resistance (CrcB) domain was found to be present in all the identified FEX genes in plants. FEX genes were sequentially very conserved among the plants and are located mostly in chloroplast and mitochondria. The tertiary structure (3D) of The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-021-02677-z.
Bruchids (Callosobruchus spp.) are destructive storage pests of mung beans (Vigna radiata). Bruchids infest mature seeds during storage and in the field causing heavy losses. Bruchid resistance in mung bean has been characterized as a dominant trait controlled by a single gene. Several independent mapping studies showed that the Br locus on chromosome 5 was a key quantitative trait loci (QTL) involved in bruchid resistance. Two polygalacturonase-inhibitor protein (PGIP) family genes, VrPGIP1 and VrPGIP2, located in the Br locus may be the primary genes responsible for bruchid resistance in mung bean but no experimental proof is available. We isolated the VrPGIP1 and VrPGIP2 genes from bruchid resistant mung bean cultivar V2802 and purified the proteins by prokaryotic expression. Both VrPGIP1 and VrPGIP2 had polygalacturonase inhibitor activity and both of the PGIP proteins conferred resistance to bruchids in an artificial seed test system. VrPGIPs can inhibit the enzyme activity of polygalacturonase present in males, females and fourth instar larvae of C. maculatus. These results demonstrated that VrPGIP1 and VrPGIP2 play a critical role in bruchid resistance probably through inhibiting polygalacturonase activity.
The expression of clock genes, regulating the synchronization of metabolic and behavioral processes with environmental light/dark cycles, is regulated by methylation and might be influenced by short-term exposure to airborne particulate matter (PM), especially in individuals that are hypersensitive to proinflammatory cues. The present study aimed to evaluate the effects of PM
Callosobruchus chinensis is one of the important postharvest pests in legume growing areas. Bacterial pesticide is a potential alternative method to control storage pests. However, the effect of these pathogen bacteria on storage pests, and the molecular mechanisms of insect response remain to be to investigated. Using the next generation sequencing technology, we established a transcriptomic library for C. chinensis larvae in response to Escherichia coli. Total of 355 differential expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, which 178 DEGs were upregulated, and 177 DEGs were downregulated compared to control group. To validate the RNA-seq analysis, 20 DEGs and 14 immune-related genes were selected to perform quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). These immune-related genes were involved in recognition (peptidoglycan recognition proteins), signal transduction (fibrinogen-related proteins, serine proteinases and NF-κB), and execution effectors (phenoloxidase, defensin, attacin, and antimicrobial peptide). In addition, genes that encode digestive and respiratory enzymes were altered in C. chinensis larvae in response to infection. Some genes that involved in juvenile hormone and insulin pathway appeared to express differentially, suggesting that pathogen infection might lead to developmental arrest. Furthermore, iron homeostasis and chitin metabolism appeared significantly altered after infection. In this study, we characterized the immune response of C. chinensis larvae in response to E. coli using RNA-seq, from pathogen recognition, signal transduction, to execution. Some other identified genes were involved in iron homeostasis, respiration, and digestion. A better understanding of molecular response of beetle to pathogen will facilitate us to develop an available strategy to control storage pests.
Fertile independent transgenic cowpea lines expressing the BtCry2Aa toxin with increased resistance to the most devastating lepidopteran insect pest, Maruca pod borer has been developed for the first time. Cowpea is a staple legume important for food and nutritional security in sub-Saharan Africa and Asia, where its production is limited by the key pest, legume pod borer (Maruca vitrata). Cowpea varieties resistant to M. vitrata are not known, hence, development of Maruca pod borer resistance cowpea through genetic engineering is a promising approach to improve its production. In the present study, transgenic cowpea plants expressing Bacillus thuringiensis Cry2Aa insecticidal protein were developed for the first time using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of cotyledonary explants. T
Yellow Mosaic Disease (YMD) in mungbean [Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek] is one of the most damaging diseases in Asia. In the northern part of India, the YMD is caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV), while in southern India this is caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic Virus (MYMV). The molecular mechanism of YMD resistance in mungbean remains largely unknown. In this study, RNA-seq analysis was conducted between a resistant (PMR-1) and a susceptible (Pusa Vishal) mungbean genotype under infected and control conditions to understand the regulatory network operating between mungbean-YMV. Overall, 76.8 million raw reads could be generated in different treatment combinations, while mapping rate per library to the reference genome varied from 86.78% to 93.35%. The resistance to MYMIV showed a very complicated gene network, which begins with the production of general PAMPs (pathogen-associated molecular patterns), then activation of various signaling cascades like kinases, jasmonic acid (JA) and brassinosteroid (BR), and finally the expression of specific genes (like PR-proteins, virus resistance and R-gene proteins) leading to resistance response. The function of WRKY, NAC and MYB transcription factors in imparting the resistance against MYMIV could be established. The string analysis also revealed the role of proteins involved in kinase, viral movement and phytoene synthase activity in imparting YMD resistance. A set of novel stress-related EST-SSRs are also identified from the RNA-Seq data which may be used to find the linked genes/QTLs with the YMD resistance. Also, 11 defence-related transcripts could be validated through quantitative real-time PCR analysis. The identified gene networks have led to an insight about the defence mechanism operating against MYMIV infection in mungbean which will be of immense use to manage the YMD resistance in mungbean.
Black gram [Vigna mungo (L)] seeds are a rich source of digestible protein and dietary fibre, both for human and animal consumption. However, the quality and quantity of the Vigna seeds are severely affected by bruchid beetles during storage. Therefore, analyses of the expression of the bruchid induced transcript dynamics in black gram pods would be helpful to understand the underlying defense mechanism against bruchid oviposition. We used the RNAseq approach to survey the changes in transcript profile in the developing seeds of a moderately resistant cultivar IC-8219 against bruchid oviposition using a susceptible cultivar T-9 as a control. A total of 96,084,600 and 99,532,488 clean reads were generated from eight (4 each) samples of IC-8219 and T-9 cultivar, respectively. Based on the BLASTX search against the NR database, 32,584 CDSs were generated of which 31,817 CDSs were significantly similar to Vigna radiata, a close relative of Vigna mungo. The IC-8219 cultivar had 630 significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of which 304 and 326 genes up and down-regulated, respectively. However, in the T-9 cultivar, only 168 DEGs were identified of which 142 and 26 genes up and down-regulated, respectively. The expression analyses of 10 DEGs by qPCR confirmed the accuracy of the RNA-Seq data. Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway analyses helped us to better understand the role of these DEGs in oviposition mediated defense response of black gram. In both the cultivars, the most significant transcriptomic changes in response to the oviposition were related to the induction of defense response genes, transcription factors, secondary metabolites, enzyme inhibitors, and signal transduction pathways. It appears that the bruchid ovipositioning mediated defense response in black gram is induced by SA signaling pathways and defense genes such as defensin, genes for secondary metabolites, and enzyme inhibitors could be potential candidates for resistance to bruchids. We generated a transcript profile of immature black gram pods upon bruchid ovipositioning by de novo assembly and studied the underlying defense mechanism of a moderately resistant cultivar.
In most diploids the centromere-specific histone H3 (CENH3), the assembly site of active centromeres, is encoded by a single copy gene. Persistance of two CENH3 paralogs in diploids species raises the possibility of subfunctionalization. Here we analysed both CENH3 genes of the diploid dryland crop cowpea. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that gene duplication of CENH3 occurred independently during the speciation of Vigna unguiculata. Both functional CENH3 variants are transcribed, and the corresponding proteins are intermingled in subdomains of different types of centromere sequences in a tissue-specific manner together with the kinetochore protein CENPC. CENH3.2 is removed from the generative cell of mature pollen, while CENH3.1 persists. CRISPR/Cas9-based inactivation of CENH3.1 resulted in delayed vegetative growth and sterility, indicating that this variant is needed for plant development and reproduction. By contrast, CENH3.2 knockout individuals did not show obvious defects during vegetative and reproductive development. Hence, CENH3.2 of cowpea is likely at an early stage of pseudogenization and less likely undergoing subfunctionalization.
In angiosperms, meiotic failure coupled with the formation of genetically unreduced gametophytes in ovules (apomeiosis) constitute major components of gametophytic apomixis. These aberrant developmental events are generally thought to be caused by mutation. However, efforts to locate the responsible mutations have failed. Herein, we tested a fundamentally different hypothesis: apomeiosis is a polyphenism of meiosis, with meiosis and apomeiosis being maintained by different states of metabolic homeostasis. Microarray analyses of ovules and pistils were used to differentiate meiotic from apomeiotic processes in
This paper reports fine mapping of qCLS for resistance to Cercospora leaf spot disease in mungbean and identified LOC106765332encoding TATA-binding-protein-associated factor 5 (TAF5) as the candidate gene for the resistance Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by the fungus Cercospora canescens is an important disease of mungbean. A QTL mapping using mungbean F
Mungbean, is a widely cultivated pulse crop in India, experiences severe drought stress during the cultivation period. The mechanism of drought tolerance in mungbean is not well understood. In this presents study we screened 7 widely cultivated mungbean genotypes towards their drought sensitivity at seedling stage and transcriptome sequencing of drought-tolerant and susceptible genotype to understand the drought tolerance mechanism. Our physiological data such as increase in root length, shoot length, fresh weight, dry weight, relative water content (RWC), proline content, MDA content and molecular data in terms of quantitative expression of drought stress responsive genes under 3-d drought stress in mungbean suggests that, K851 seems to be most drought tolerant and PDM-139 as drought susceptible genotype. The transcriptomic study between K-851 and PDM-139 revealed 22,882 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) which were identified under drought stress, and they were mainly mapped to phytohormone signal transduction, carbon metabolism and flavonoid biosynthesis. Out of these, 10,235 genes were up-regulated and 12,647 genes were down-regulated. Furthermore, we found that, the DEGs related to, phytohormone signal transduction, carbon metabolism and flavonoid biosynthesis and they were more induced in K-851. Our data suggested that, the drought tolerant genotype K-851, scavenges the damage of drought stress by producing more amount of osmolytes, ROS scavengers and sugar biosynthesis.
Flowering time has a critically important effect on the reproduction of plants, and many components involved in flowering-time regulation have been identified in multiple plant species. However, studies of the flowering-time genes in mungbean (Vigna radiata) have been limited. Here, we characterized a novel mungbean gene, VrLELP, involved in flowering-time regulation in transgenic Arabidopsis. Subcellular localization analysis revealed that VrLELP was localized in the membrane, cytoplasm and nucleus and the nucleus and membrane contained higher signal than cytoplasm, similar to the empty vector control. The expression of VrLELP was higher in leaves and pods and lower in nodule roots relative to other tissues. The expression of VrLELP varied during flower development. The expression of VrLELP also varied during the day, reaching a peak after 12 h of illumination under long-day conditions. In contrast, under short-day conditions, the abundance of VrLELP transcripts changed little throughout the day. In addition, VrLELP delayed flowering time in transgenic Arabidopsis plants by suppressing the expression of the flowering-time genes CO and FT under short-day conditions. However, VrLELP did not affect flowering time under long-day conditions in Arabidopsis. Our study provides essential information for future studies of the molecular mechanisms of the flowering-time regulation system in mungbean.
Cytosine methylation in genomic DNA affects gene expression, potentially causing phenotypic variation. Mungbean, an agronomically and nutritionally important legume species, is characterized by nonsynchronous pod maturity, resulting in multiple harvest which costs extra time and labor. To elucidate the epigenetic influences on synchronous pod maturity (SPM) in mungbean, we determined the genome-wide DNA methylation profiles of eight mungbean recombinant inbred lines (RILs) and their parental genotypes, and compared DNA methylation profiles between high SPM and low SPM RILs, thus revealing differentially methylated regions (DMRs). A total of 3, 18, and 28 pure DMRs, defined as regions showing no significant correlation between nucleotide sequence variation and methylation level, were identified in CpG, CHG, and CHH contexts, respectively. These DMRs were proximal to 20 genes. Among the 544 single nucleotide polymorphisms identified near the 20 genes, only one caused critical change in gene expression by early termination. Analysis of these genome-wide DNA methylation profiles suggests that epigenetic changes can influence the expression of proximal genes, regardless of nucleotide sequence variation, and that SPM is mediated through gibberellin-mediated hormone signaling pathways. These results provide insights into how epialleles contribute to phenotypic variation and improve SPM in mungbean cultivars.
Availability of genome sequence of different legume species has provided an opportunity to characterize the abundance, distribution, and divergence of canonical intact long terminal retrotransposons (In-LTR-RT) superfamilies. Among seven legume species, Arachis ipaensis (Aip) showed the highest number of full-length canonical In-LTR-RTs (3325), followed by Glycine max (Gma, 2328), Vigna angularis (Van, 1625), Arachis durensis (Adu, 1348), Lotus japonicus (Lja, 1294), Medicago truncatula (Mtr, 788), and Circer arietinum (Car, 124). Divergence time analysis demonstrated that the amplification timeframe of LTR-RTs dramatically varied in different families. The average insertion time of Copia element varied from 0.51 (Van) to 1.37 million years ago (Mya) (Adu, and Aip), whereas that of Gypsy was between 0.22 (Mtr) and 1.82 Mya (Adu). Bayesian phylogenetic tree analysis suggested that the 1397 and 1917 reverse transcriptase (RT) domains of Copia and Gypsy families of the seven legume species were clustered into 7 and 14 major groups, respectively. The highest proportion (approximately 94.79-100%) of transposable element (TE)-associated genes assigned to pathways was mapped to metabolism-related pathways in all species. The results enabled the structural understanding of full-length In-LTR-RTs and will be valuable resource for the further study of the impact of TEs on gene structure and expression in legume species.
Cowpea is a well-known nutrition rich African leafy vegetable that has potential to sustain food and nutrition insecurity in sub-Saharan Africa. Consumption of cowpea legumes is associated with reduced risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Therefore, the present study was designed to evaluate the (i) variation in phenolic metabolites in seven cowpea cultivars (VOP1, VOP2, VOP3, VOP4, VOP5, VOP7, and VOP8 using UHPLC coupled with high resolution Q-TOF-MS technique, (ii) in vitro antioxidant activity using ferric reducing/antioxidant capacity (FRAP) assay (iii) in vitro anti-diabetic effects and (iv) composition of carotenoids and amino acids of theses cowpea cultivars. The results of this study demonstrated that gentisic acid 5-
Cadmium (Cd) is a detrimental element that can be toxic to plants. The physiological and biochemical responses of plants to Cd stress have been extensively studied, but the molecular mechanisms remain unclear. The present study showed that Cd severely inhibited the growth of roots and shoots and reduced plant biomass of mung bean seedlings. To further investigate the gene profiles and molecular processes in response Cd stress, transcriptome analyses of mung bean roots exposed to 100 μM Cd for 1, 5, and 9 days were performed. Cd treatment significantly decreased global gene expression levels at 5 and 9 d compared with the control. A total of 6737, 10279, and 9672 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the 1-, 5-, and 9-day Cd-treated root tissues compared with the controls, respectively. Based on the analysis of DEG function annotation and enrichment, a pattern of mung bean roots response to Cd stress was proposed. The processes detoxification and antioxidative defense were involved in the early response of mung bean roots to Cd. Cd stress downregulated the expressions of a series of genes involved in cell wall biosynthesis, cell division, DNA replication and repair, and photosynthesis, while genes involved in signal transduction and regulation, transporters, secondary metabolisms, defense systems, and mitochondrial processes were upregulated in response to Cd, which might be contributed to the improvement of plant tolerance. Our results provide some novel insights into the molecular processes for growth and adaption of mung bean roots in response to Cd and many candidate genes for further biotechnological manipulations to improve plant tolerance to heavy metals.
Loss/reduction of function of Mildew Locus O (MLO) genes clade V and MLO clade IV has been shown to be responsible for powdery mildew (PM) resistance in several plant species. Mungbean (Vigna radiata) genome possesses 18 MLO genes, VrMLO1 - VrMLO18. A previous study using mungbean F
Organ size and architecture of plants are important traits affecting crop yield and agronomic practices. An induced mutant, multiple-organ gigantism (MOG), of black gram (
Globally, yellow mosaic disease (YMD) remains a major constraint of mungbean production, and management of this deadly disease is still the biggest challenge. Thus, finding ways to manage YMD including development of varieties possessing resistance against mungbean yellow mosaic virus (MYMV) and mungbean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV) is a research priority for mungbean crop. Characterization of YMD resistance using various advanced molecular and biochemical approaches during plant-virus interactions has unfolded a comprehensive network of pathogen survival, disease severity, and the response of plants to pathogen attack, including mechanisms of YMD resistance in mungbean. The biggest challenge in YMD management is the effective utilization of an array of information gained so far, in an integrated manner for the development of genotypes having durable resistance against yellow mosaic virus (YMV) infection. In this backdrop, this review summarizes the role of various begomoviruses, its genomic components, and vector whiteflies, including cryptic species in the YMD expression. Also, information about the genetics of YMD in both mungbean and blackgram crops is comprehensively presented, as both the species are crossable, and same viral strains are also found affecting these crops. Also, implications of various management strategies including the use of resistance sources, the primary source of inoculums and vector management, wide-hybridization, mutation breeding, marker-assisted selection (MAS), and pathogen-derived resistance (PDR) are thoroughly discussed. Finally, the prospects of employing various powerful emerging tools like translational genomics, and gene editing using CRISPR/Cas9 are also highlighted to complete the YMD management perspective in mungbean.
The legume cowpea ( Attempts to develop a transient protoplast system for cowpea were unsuccessful. Leaflets from plants 3-4 weeks post-germination were age selected to establish a rapid The transient, detached cowpea leaf assay, and supporting analytical methods developed, provide a rapid and reproducible means for testing gene expression constructs, and constructs for inducing mutagenesis in genes involved in both vegetative and reproductive developmental programs. The method and tested editing constructs and components have potential application for a range of crop legumes.
Synchronous pod maturity is critical for increasing grain yield. The candidate genes involved in synchronous pod maturity were identified through RNA-seq and HPLC. Mungbean (Vigna radiata [L.] Wilczek), an important source of carbohydrate and protein in Asia, is characterized by nonsynchronous pod maturity; consequently, harvesting is labor intensive. Because pod maturity is associated with synthesis and remobilization of sucrose, we examined changes in sucrose levels and transcriptome in leaf (source) tissues after pod (sink) removal using two genotypes, VC1973A and V2984; VC1973A had higher synchronicity in pod maturity than V2984. After pod removal, much higher number of pods were produced in V2984 than VC1973A. The sucrose content of leaf tissues significantly decreased in V2984 because it continued to utilize assimilates from leaves for producing new pods, but significantly increased in VC1973A because of the loss of sink. Transcriptome analysis revealed that the number of differentially expressed genes was approximately fourfold higher in VC1973A than in those of V2984 after pod removal. The expression of two paralogous genes (Vradi01g05010 and Vradi10g08240), encoding beta-glucosidase enzymes, significantly decreased in VC1973A after pod removal and was significantly lower in depodded VC1973A than depodded V2984, indicating these two genes may participate in sucrose utilization for seed development by regulating the level of glucose. The results of this study will help elucidate the genetic basis of synchronous pod maturity in mungbean and facilitate the development of new cultivars with synchronous pod maturity.
Arsenic (As)-toxicity is recognized as one of the major environmental problems, affecting productivity of crops worldwide, thereby threatening sustainable agriculture and food security. Progression in nanotechnology and its impacts have brought up concerns about the application of engineered nanoparticles (NPs) in various sectors of the economy, including the field of agronomy. Among various NPs, there has been a rising amount of interest regarding the effects of titanium NPs (TiNPs) on plants growth and development, and their fate of abiotic stress tolerance. Hence, the present study was aimed to assess the ameliorative potentialities of chemically and biologically/green synthesized TiNPs to alleviate As-induced toxic responses in Vigna radiata L. The results revealed that exposure to As hindered the growth indices (radicle length and biomass) and membrane integrity, while were improved with the application of chemical and green synthesized TiNPs. In addition, treatment of As provoked the accretion of reactive oxygen species (superoxide and hydrogen peroxide) and malondialdehyde (a lipid peroxidized product), but were diminished by the supplementation of chemical and green manufactured TiNPs. The experimental data also signified that exogenous application of chemical and green synthesized TiNPs conferred tolerance to As-induced oxidative injuries via perking-up the expressions of antioxidant genes and enzyme systems viz; superoxide dismutase and catalase. Therefore, the present study inferred that chemically and green synthesized TiNPs, particularly green manufactured, effectively mitigated the adverse impacts of As by augmenting antioxidant machinery, thereby proving its potentiality in the alleviation of As-toxicity, at least in Vignaradiata L.
Cowpea miRNAs and Argonaute genes showed differential expression patterns in response to CPSMV challenge Several biotic stresses affect cowpea production and yield. CPSMV stands out for causing severe negative impacts on cowpea. Plants have two main induced immune systems. In the basal system (PTI, PAMP-triggered immunity), plants recognize and respond to conserved molecular patterns associated with pathogens (PAMPs). The second type (ETI, Effector-triggered immunity) is induced after plant recognition of specific factors from pathogens. RNA silencing is another important defense mechanism in plants. Our research group has been using biochemical and proteomic approaches to learn which proteins and pathways are involved and could explain why some cowpea genotypes are resistant whereas others are susceptible to CPSMV. This current study was conducted to determine the role of cowpea miRNA in the interaction between a resistant cowpea genotype (BRS-Marataoã) and CPSMV. Previously identified and deposited plant microRNA sequences were used to find out all possible microRNAs in the cowpea genome. This search detected 617 mature microRNAs, which were distributed in 89 microRNA families. Next, 4 out of these 617 miRNAs and their possible target genes that encode the proteins Kat-p80, DEAD-Box, GST, and SPB9, all involved in the defense response of cowpea to CPSMV, had their expression compared between cowpea leaves uninoculated and inoculated with CPSMV. Additionally, the differential expression of genes that encode the Argonaute (AGO) proteins 1, 2, 4, 6, and 10 is reported. In summary, the studied miRNAs and AGO 2 and AGO4 associated genes showed differential expression patterns in response to CPSMV challenge, which indicate their role in cowpea defense.
Worldwide, 50% of soil is acidic, which induces aluminium (Al) toxicity in plants, as the phyto-availability of Al
During mung bean post-germination seedling growth, various metabolic and physiological changes occurred, leading to the improvement of its nutritional values. Here, transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses of mung bean samples from 6-hour, 3-day and 6-day after imbibition (6-HAI, 3-DAI, and 6-DAI) were performed to characterize the regulatory mechanism of the primary metabolites during the post-germination seedling growth. From 6-HAI to 3-DAI, rapid changes in transcript level occurred, including starch and sucrose metabolism, glycolysis, citrate cycle, amino acids synthesis, and plant hormones regulation. Later changes in the metabolites, including carbohydrates and amino acids, appeared to be driven by increases in transcript levels. During this process, most amino acids and monosaccharides kept increasing, and accumulated in 6-day germinated sprouts. These processes were also accompanied with changes in hormones including abscisic acid, gibberellin, jasmonic acid, indole-3-acetic acid, etc. Overall, these results will provide insights into molecular mechanisms underlying the primary metabolic regulation in mung bean during post-germination seedling growth.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the interaction of pro-vitamin A-rich sweet potato on iron bioavailability of biofortified cowpeas, using in vitro Caco-2 cells and in vivo depletion-repletion rat model. Mixtures of conventional rice with cultivars of iron-biofortified (Aracê, Xiquexique, and Tumucumaque) or conventional (Guariba) cowpeas with or without sweet potato biofortified with pro-vitamin A carotenoids were evaluated. The ratio of ferritin/total protein in Caco-2 cells was used as the index of cellular Fe uptake in the in vitro assay. The animal study evaluated the hemoglobin gain, the relative biological value, and the gene expression of transferrin and ferritin proteins by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. In the in vitro study, Xiquexique cowpea presented higher bioavailability of iron in the absence of sweet potato, and no difference was observed between the other cultivars of cowpea with and without sweet potato. The in vivo bioavailability (relative biological value of hemoglobin regeneration efficiency) differed statistically only between Guariba groups added to sweet potato and Tumucumaque. Ferritin mRNA expression did not differ between the test and control (ferrous sulfate) groups. Regarding the transferrin mRNA expression, there was a difference between the test and control groups except for the Xiquexique group. The association of rice and beans with sweet potato rich in carotenoids favored the gene expression of proteins involved in the iron metabolism, as well as its bioavailability, corroborating beneficial effects of this mixture. Xiquexique cowpea was shown to be the most promising compared to the other cultivars, exhibiting higher iron content in the digestible fraction, better in vitro bioavailability of iron, and transferrin gene expression. PRACTICAL APPLICATION: Data from the study indicated greater in vitro bioavailability of iron for Xiquexique cowpea and sweet potato mixtures, in addition to the greater regeneration efficiency of hemoglobin in vivo as the bioavailability of iron among biofortified beans, highlighting the promising benefits of biofortification.
An amendment to this paper has been published and can be accessed via a link at the top of the paper.
Paspalum notatum exhibits both sexual and apomictic cytotypes and, thus, is considered a good model for studies of apomixis because it facilitates comparative approaches. In this work, transcriptome sequencing was used to compare contrasting P. notatum cytotypes to identify differential expression patterns and candidate genes involved in the regulation of expression of this trait. We built a comprehensive transcriptome using leaf and inflorescence from apomictic tetraploids and sexual diploids/tetraploids and a coexpression network based on pairwise correlations between transcript expression profiles. We identified genes exclusively expressed in each cytotype and genes differentially expressed between pairs of cytotypes. Gene Ontology enrichment analyses were performed to better interpret the data. We de novo assembled 114,306 reference transcripts. In total, 536 candidate genes possibly associated with apomixis were detected through statistical analyses of the differential expression data, and several interacting genes potentially linked to the apomixis-controlling region, genes that have already been reported in the literature, and their neighbors were transcriptionally related in the coexpression network. Apomixis is a highly desirable trait in modern agriculture due to the maintenance of the characteristics of the mother plant in the progeny. The reference transcriptome, candidate genes and their coexpression network identified in this work represent rich resources for future grass breeding programs.
Infection with Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) represents one of the main limitations for cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) productivity due to the severity of the disease symptoms, frequency of incidence, and difficulties in dissemination control. This study aimed to identify the proteins and metabolic pathways associated with the susceptibility and resistance of cowpea plants to CPSMV. Therefore, we treated the seeds of a naturally susceptible cowpea genotype (CE-31) with the mutagenic agent ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS) and compared the secondary leaf proteomic profile of the mutagenized resistant plants inoculated with CPSMV (MCPI plant group) to those of the naturally susceptible cowpea genotype CE-31 inoculated (CPI) and noninoculated (CPU) with CPSMV. MCPI responded to CPSMV by accumulating proteins involved in the oxidative burst, increasing H
Hyperlipidemia is closely related to oxidative stress, and it has been proved that the intake of legumes can protect the body from chronic diseases related to oxidative stress. In this study, we investigated the protective effects of mung beans and peas against high-fat-diet-induced rats. It was found that, with 50% addition of mung beans or peas, the intake of mung beans and peas could significantly restore the levels of serum total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Liver staining also showed that high-fat diet (HFD) led to liver lesions, whereas whole-grain intake could significantly relieve these symptoms. Compared with the HFD group, the antioxidant defense system and antioxidant gene expression in administered legume groups improved markedly. Furthermore, the antioxidant activities of the two legume extracts were determined. Characterization showed that the ethanol extracts of mung beans and peas possessed high antioxidant activities, for their ability to scavenge ABTS and DPPH, reduce Fe
Ethylene-response factor (ERF) proteins are members of a transcription factor family involved in plant growth and environmental stress responses, but the biological functions of ERF members in adzuki bean (Vigna angularis var. angularis) remain unknown. In addition, it is unclear whether these proteins have a role in regulating responses to abiotic stressors. Here, we identified 47 ERF genes by analyzing the adzuki bean genome. Whole-transcriptome analyses of plants under saline-alkaline stress suggested that the expression of 13 ERF genes was induced in response to saline-alkaline stress. Analysis of the cis-acting elements showed that the promoters of these saline-alkaline stress-inducible ERF genes contained LTRs, DREs, MYBs, ABREs, MYCs, CGTCA-, and TGACG-motifs, which are involved in abiotic stress responses. The expression of VaERF3 was induced by NaHCO
Meloidogyne incognita is a polyphagous plant-parasitic nematode that causes considerable yield loss in agricultural and horticultural crops. The management options available for M. incognita are extremely limited. Here we identified and characterised a M. incognita homolog of Caenorhabditis elegans sterol-binding protein (Mi-SBP-1), a transcriptional regulator of several lipogenesis pathway genes, and used RNA interference-mediated gene silencing to establish its utility as a target for the management of M. incognita. Mi-sbp-1 is predicted to be a helix-loop-helix domain containing DNA binding transcription factor, and is present in the M. incognita genome in three copies. The RNA-Seq analysis of Mi-sbp-1 silenced second stage juveniles confirmed the key role of this gene in lipogenesis regulation in M. incognita. In vitro and host-induced gene silencing of Mi-sbp-1 in M. incognita second stage juveniles resulted in loss of nematodes' ability to utilise the stored fat reserves, slower nematode development, and reduced parasitism on adzuki bean and tobacco plants. The multiplication factor for the Mi-sbp-1 silenced nematodes on adzuki bean plants was reduced by 51% compared with the control nematodes in which Mi-sbp-1 was not silenced. Transgenic expression of the double-stranded RNA construct of the Mi-sbp-1 gene in tobacco plants caused 40-45% reduction in M. incognita multiplication, 30-43.8% reduction in the number of egg masses, and 33-54% reduction in the number of eggs per egg mass compared with the wild type control plants. Our results confirm that Mi-sbp-1 is a key regulator of lipogenesis in M. incognita and suggest that it can be used as an effective target for its management. The findings of this study can be extended to develop methods to manage other economically important parasitic nematodes.
Transcriptional regulation is important for plants to respond to toxic effects of aluminium (Al). However, our current knowledge to these events is confined to a few transcription factors. Here, we functionally characterized a rice bean (Vigna umbellata) NAC-type transcription factor, VuNAR1, in terms of Al stress response. We demonstrated that rice bean VuNAR1 is a nuclear-localized transcriptional activator, whose expression was specifically upregulated by Al in roots but not in shoot. VuNAR1 overexpressing Arabidopsis plants exhibit improved Al resistance via Al exclusion. However, VuNAR1-mediated Al exclusion is independent of the function of known Al-resistant genes. Comparative transcriptomic analysis revealed that VuNAR1 specifically regulates the expression of genes associated with protein phosphorylation and cell wall modification in Arabidopsis. Transient expression assay demonstrated the direct transcriptional activation of cell wall-associated receptor kinase 1 (WAK1) by VuNAR1. Moreover, yeast one-hybrid assays and MEME motif searches identified a new VuNAR1-specific binding motif in the promoter of WAK1. Compared with wild-type Arabidopsis plants, VuNAR1 overexpressing plants have higher WAK1 expression and less pectin content. Taken together, our results suggest that VuNAR1 regulates Al resistance by regulating cell wall pectin metabolism via directly binding to the promoter of WAK1 and induce its expression.
The effects of exogenous spermidine and dicyclohexylamine (DCHA, spermidine synthesis inhibitor) on the antioxidative system and energy status of germinating mung bean were investigated. Results showed that exogenous spermidine increased the content of total phenolic and ascorbic acid and the antioxidative activity, but reduced activities and gene expressions of peroxidase (POD) and catalase (CAT). These changes might be explained by increased H
Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by Cercospora canescens is an important disease of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). A previous study using an F
The aim of the present study was to characterize and evaluate the anti-cancer activity of proanthocyanidin-enriched fractions from adzuki beans. For this purpose, we concentrated proanthocyanidins from adzuki beans (
Insulin/insulin-like growth factor signaling (IIS) is known to mediate larval growth and adult reproduction in the legume pod borer, Maruca vitrata (Lepidoptera: Crambidae). Four IIS components (InR, FOXO, Akt, and TOR) play crucial roles in the IIS pathway. RNA interference (RNAi) against any of these four IIS component genes was effective in suppressing each target mRNA level by either hemocoelic injection or oral administration using gene-specific double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs). These RNAi treatments interfered with larval growth, leading to small pupae or significant larval mortality. For massive production of dsRNA, transformed bacteria expressing dsRNAs of these four IIS components were prepared with L4440 expression vector and HT115 strain of Escherichia coli. The transformed bacteria killed the larvae in a dose-dependent manner by feeding administration. An ultra-sonication pretreatment was performed to impair bacterial membrane and increase dsRNA release from the bacteria in insect intestine. This pretreatment increased the insecticidal activity of these recombinant bacteria. To further increase dsRNA toxicity, its mixture with Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) was prepared and showed significant increase of Bt insecticidal activity in the laboratory. The bacterial mixture also showed a high control efficacy (83.3%) in an adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) field infested by M. vitrata. Furthermore, such a dsRNA effect was specific for M. vitrata, but not for non-target insects. The bacteria expressing dsRNA specific to IIS components can be used to develop dsRNA insecticide. © 2019 Society of Chemical Industry.
Heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70), a 70-kDa protein, also known as a molecular chaperone, is highly conserved. It plays a major role in cellular functions such as protein folding, regulation of protein degradation, translocation of proteins across membranes, receptor signaling, and protein assembly or disassembly.
Galectins (GAL) are animal lectins that play important roles in the immune response through regulation of homeostasis and immune function. Bioactive polyphenols are able to bind and regulate galectins in inflammatory diseases. Cowpea is a nutritious and polyphenol-rich legume used as feed. The objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of cowpea polyphenol extract (CPE) on galectin gene transcription and translation in bovine peripheral blood. Blood from lactating cows (
Blackgram [Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper], is an important legume crop of Asia with limited genomic resources. We report a comprehensive set of genic simple sequence repeat (SSR) and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) markers using Illumina MiSeq sequencing of transcriptome and its application in genetic variation analysis and mapping. Transcriptome sequencing of immature seeds of wild blackgram, V. mungo var. silvestris by Illumina MiSeq technology generated 1.9 × 10 In the present study, 1621genic-SSR and 1844 SNP markers were developed from immature seed transcriptome sequence of blackgram and 31 genic-SSR markers were used to study genetic variations among different blackgram accessions. Above developed markers contribute towards enriching available genomic resources for blackgram and aid in breeding programmes.
Drought impact on plants is an increasing concern under the climate change scenario. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) is considered as one of the most tolerant legume crops to drought, being the search for the best well-adapted genotypes crucial to face the future challenges. Different approaches have been used for differentiating plant responses to drought stress. Plants of four cowpea genotypes were submitted to three watering regimens (a severe and moderate drought stress, and well-watered control) during 15 days, and several physiological, biochemical and molecular parameters were evaluated. Stressed plants revealed commonly-described drought stress characteristics, but not all assayed parameters were useful for discriminating plants with different drought severities or genotypes. The analyses which have contributed most to genotype discrimination were those related with stomatal function, and biochemical markers such as proline and anthocyanin contents. Antioxidant enzymes activities and related genes expression did not differed among genotypes or upon drought stress treatments, suggesting that scavenging enzymes are not involved in the differential ability of cowpea plants to survive under drought stress. This information will be useful to evaluate and use genetic resources, as well as design strategies for breeding cowpea resistance to drought stress.
The exact roles of various granule-associated proteins (GAPs) of polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) are poorly investigated, particularly for bacteria associated with plants. In this study, four structural GAPs, named phasins PhaP1 to PhaP4, were identified and demonstrated as true phasins colocalized with PHB granules in
Isoflavones, such as Genistein (Ge) and Daidzein (Dz) are widely studied Phytoestrogens with potent anti-osteoporotic and good antioxidant activity. Cowpea is one such legume having high isoflavone content and hence we aimed at studying the beneficial effects of the isoflavones isolated from cowpea as it is widely accepted staple food in India. Previously, we reported the effect of Cowpea isoflavones (CP) and Vitamin D (VD) owing to its ability of improving the osteoporotic condition in a diet induced osteoporotic rat model. In the present study, we tried to explore the underlying mechanism of CP and VD along with positive controls Dz and Ge in influencing the functions of human osteoblasts at cellular level. Initially, MG-63 cells were assessed for the expression of genes involved in BMP-2 signaling pathway, like Bone morphogenic protein (BMP-2), transcription factor Osterix (OSX), total and phosphorylated Smad 1/5/8 levels and osteoblast specific genes levels namely Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), Osteopontin (OPN), and Collagen by immunoblot, flow cytometry, and quantitative RT-PCR studies. All the levels that were upregulated with the initial exposure of the compounds got inhibited after Noggin exposure a specific BMP-2 antagonist both at protein level and m-RNA level, except OSX where the expression was totally hindered in CP and Ge treated groups alone. Hence, CP and VD activate BMP-2/Smad signaling pathway and promote further proliferation and differentiation of osteoblasts. Therefore, results prove that isoflavones isolated from cowpea could be used in treating bone-related disorders.
Asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis) is a warm season legume which is widely distributed over subtropical regions and semiarid areas. It is mainly grown as a significant protein source in developing countries. Salinity, as one of the main abiotic stress factors, constrains the normal growth and yield of asparagus bean. This study used two cultivars (a salt-sensitive genotype and a salt-tolerant genotype) under salt stress vs. control to identify salt-stress-induced genes in asparagus bean using RNA sequencing. A total of 692,086,838 high-quality clean reads, assigned to 121,138 unigenes, were obtained from control and salt-treated libraries. Then, 216 root-derived DEGs (differentially expressed genes) and 127 leaf-derived DEGs were identified under salt stress between the two cultivars. Of these DEGs, thirteen were assigned to six transcription factors (TFs), including AP2/EREBP, CCHC(Zn), C2H2, WRKY, WD40-like and LIM. GO analysis indicated four DEGs might take effects on the "oxidation reduction", "transport" and "signal transduction" process. Moreover, expression of nine randomly-chosen DEGs was verified by quantitative real-time-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis. Predicted function of the nine tested DEGs was mainly involved in the KEGG pathway of cation transport, response to osmotic stress, and phosphorelay signal transduction system. A salt-stress-related pathway of "SNARE interactions in vesicular transport" was concerned. As byproducts, 15, 321 microsatellite markers were found in all the unigenes, and 17 SNP linked to six salt-stress induced DEGs were revealed. These candidate genes provide novel insights for understanding the salt tolerance mechanism of asparagus bean in the future.
Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV)-infection creates major hindrance in V. mungo cultivation and poses significant threat to other grain legume production. Symptoms associated include severe patho-physiological alterations characterized by chlorotic foliar lesion accompanied by reduced growth. However, dissection of the host's defense machinery remains a tough challenge due to limited of host's genomic resources. A comparative RNA-Seq transcriptomes of resistant (VM84) and susceptible (T9) plants was carried out to identify genes potentially involved in V. mungo resistance against MYMIV. Distinct gene expression landscapes were observed in VM84 and T9 with 2158 and 1679 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), respectively. Transcriptomic responses in VM84 reflect a prompt and intense immune reaction demonstrating an efficient pathogen surveillance leading to activation of basal and induced immune responses. Functional analysis of the altered DEGs identified multiple regulatory pathways to be activated or repressed over time. Up-regulation of DEGs including NB-LRR, WRKY33, ankyrin, argonaute and NAC transcription factor revealed an insight on their potential roles in MYMIV-resistance; and qPCR validation shows a propensity of their accumulation in VM84. Analyses of the current RNA-Seq dataset contribute immensely to decipher molecular responses that underlie MYMIV-resistance and will aid in the improvement strategy of V. mungo and other legumes through comparative functional genomics.
Human breast cancer is characterized by a high degree of inter-patients heterogeneity in terms of histology, genomic alterations, gene expression patterns, and metastatic behavior, which deeply influences individual prognosis and treatment response. The main cause of mortality in breast cancer is the therapy-resistant metastatic disease, which sets the priority for novel treatment strategies for these patients. In the present study, we demonstrate that Patient Derived Xenografts (PDXs) that were obtained from metastatic and therapy-resistant breast cancer samples recapitulate the wide spectrum of the disease in terms of histologic subtypes and mutational profiles, as evaluated by whole exome sequencing. We have integrated genomic and transcriptomic data to identify oncogenic and actionable pathways in each PDX. By taking advantage of primary short-term in vitro cultures from PDX tumors, we showed their resistance to standard chemotherapy (Paclitaxel), as seen in the patients. Moreover, we selected targeting drugs and analyzed PDX sensitivity to single agents or to combination of targeted and standard therapy on the basis of PDX-specific genomic or transcriptomic alterations. Our data demonstrate that PDXs represent a suitable model to test new targeting drugs or drug combinations and to prioritize personalized therapeutic regimens for pre-clinal and clinical tests.
Protein degradation and turnover under various environmental stresses is basically regulated by ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), of which SKP1 is a very essential component. Isolation and cloning of an identified potential stress responsive candidate gene SKP1, was successfully done for the first time to fathom the role of SKP1 in drought tolerance at genetic level in drought tolerant mungbean cultivar Pratap, which was screened after a detailed physio-biochemical screening amongst seven popular mungbean cultivars. The cloned gene SKP1 (accession number KX881912) is 550 bp in length, encodes 114 amino acids. It shows high sequence homology with SKP1 from Zea mays (NP_001148633). The protein expression of isolated SKP1 was confirmed by GUS fused expression using a Histochemical assay under control as well as under drought stress. Further, up-regulation in relative expression level of SKP1 in different plant parts under drought stress confirmed its utility as a potential drought responsive candidate gene certainly demanding extensive genetic research for further incorporation in breeding programs. Moreover, the structure of VrSKP1 (Vigna radiata SKP1) has been modelled, validated and an Essential Dynamics (ED) was done on the Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulation trajectories for filtering large-scale concerted motions. Free-energy calculations on the ED revealed a complex free-energy landscape (FEL) implying the conformational diversity of the modelled VrSPK1 protein.
Orphan genes (OGs) are genes that are restricted to a single species or a particular taxonomic group. To date, little is known about the functions of OGs in domesticated crops. Here, we report our findings on the relationships between OGs and environmental adaptation in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). We identified 578 expressed OGs, of which 73.2% were predicted to be non-coding. Transcriptomic analyses revealed a high rate of OGs that were drought inducible in roots when compared with conserved genes. Co-expression analysis further revealed the possible involvement of OGs in stress response pathways. Overexpression of UP12_8740, a drought-inducible OG, conferred enhanced tolerance to osmotic stresses and soil drought. By combining Capture-Seq and fluorescence-based Kompetitive allele-specific PCR (KASP), we efficiently genotyped single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on OGs across a 223 accession cowpea germplasm collection. Population genomic parameters, including polymorphism information content (PIC), expected heterozygosity (He), nucleotide diversity (π), and Tajima's D statistics, that were calculated based on these SNPs, showed distinct signatures between the grain- and vegetable-type subpopulations of cowpea. This study reinforces the idea that OGs are a valuable resource for identifying new genes related to species-specific environmental adaptations and fosters new insights that artificial selection on OGs might have contributed to balancing the adaptive and agronomic traits in domesticated crops in various ecoclimatic conditions.
To better understand the regulatory mechanism of phenolics and ascorbic acid accumulation as well as antioxidant activities in mung beans during legume development, the gene expression profiles of 25 key-coding genes in ascorbic acid and phenolics metabolic pathways were analyzed. As well as the dynamitic changes of ascorbic acid, phenolic profiles and antioxidant activities with legume development were studied. The results indicated that gene expression profiles were closely related to the ascorbic acid and phenolics accumulation regularity during legume development.
Thaumatin-like proteins (TLPs) are a highly complex protein family associated with host defense and developmental processes in plants, animals, and fungi. They are highly diverse in angiosperms, for which they are classified as the PR-5 (Pathogenesis-Related-5) protein family. In plants, TLPs have a variety of properties associated with their structural diversity. They are mostly associated with responses to biotic stresses, in addition to some predicted activities under drought and osmotic stresses. The present review covers aspects related to the structure, evolution, gene expression, and biotechnological potential of TLPs. The efficiency of the discovery of new TLPs is below its potential, considering the availability of omics data. Furthermore, we present an exemplary bioinformatics annotation procedure that was applied to cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) transcriptome, including libraries of two tissues (root and leaf), and two stress types (biotic/abiotic) generated using different sequencing approaches. Even without using genomic sequences, the pipeline uncovered 56 TLP candidates in both tissues and stresses. Interestingly, abiotic stress (root dehydration) was associated with a high number of modulated TLP isoforms. The nomenclature used so far for TLPs was also evaluated, considering TLP structure and possible functions identified to date. It is clear that plant TLPs are promising candidates for breeding purposes and for plant transformation aiming a better performance under biotic and abiotic stresses. The development of new therapeutic drugs against human fungal pathogens also deserves attention. Despite that, applications derived from TLP molecules are still below their potential, as it is evident in our review.
Germination and sprouting are regulated by the energy status. In the present study, mung bean seeds were treated with adenosine triphosphate and 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP). The metabolomic changes during development of mung beans under different energy statuses were investigated. In total, 42 metabolites were identified. Principal component analysis revealed that the featured compounds produced in seeds were oleic, linoleic, and succinic acids. Sugars, including maltose, sucrose, and glucose were related to sprouting. Mung bean seeds utilised diverse energy resources and produced higher succinic acid content. Sugars and secondary metabolites accumulated in sprouts. Nitrogen, sugar, and amino acid metabolism pathways contributed to this physiological process. DNP caused an energy deficit, which resulted in the consumption and translation of glucose. Higher contents of other saccharides and amino acids were observed. The transcriptional results further confirmed our metabolic hypothesis. In conclusion, sufficient energy supply is crucial for sprout development and nutritive metabolite synthesis.
Interferon-induced expression of programmed cell death ligands (PD-L1/PD-L2) may sustain tumour immune-evasion. Patients featuring MET amplification, a genetic lesion driving transformation, may benefit from anti-MET treatment. We explored if MET-targeted therapy interferes with Interferon-γ modulation of PD-L1/PD-L2 in MET-amplified tumours. PD-L1/PD-L2 expression and signalling pathways downstream of MET or Interferon-γ were analysed in MET-amplified tumour cell lines and in patient-derived tumour organoids, in basal condition, upon Interferon-γ stimulation, and after anti-MET therapy. PD-L1 and PD-L2 were upregulated in MET-amplified tumour cells upon Interferon-γ treatment. This induction was impaired by JNJ-605, a selective inhibitor of MET kinase activity, and MvDN30, an antibody inducing MET proteolytic cleavage. We found that activation of JAKs/ STAT1, signal transducers downstream of the Interferon-γ receptor, was neutralised by MET inhibitors. Moreover, JAK2 and MET associated in the same signalling complex depending on MET phosphorylation. Results were confirmed in MET-amplified organoids derived from human colorectal tumours, where JNJ-605 treatment revoked Interferon-γ induced PD-L1 expression. These data show that in MET-amplified cancers, treatment with MET inhibitors counteracts the induction of PD-1 ligands by Interferon-γ. Thus, therapeutic use of anti-MET drugs may provide additional clinical benefit over and above the intended inhibition of the target oncogene.
Heat shock transcription factors (Hsfs) are essential elements in plant signal transduction pathways that mediate gene expression in response to various abiotic stresses. Mungbean (
The establishment of symbiosis between legume and rhizobium results in the formation of nodule. Phytocyanins (PCs) are a class of plant-specific blue copper proteins, playing critical roles in plant development including nodule formation. Although a few PC genes have been isolated from nodules, their functions are still unclear. Here, we performed a genome-wide identification of PC family in seven sequenced legume species (Medicago truncatula, Glycine max, Cicer arietinum, Cajanus cajan, Lotus japonicus, Vigna angularis and Phaseolus vulgaris) and found PCs experienced a remarkable expansion in M. truncatula and G. max. Further, we conducted an in-depth analysis of PC family in the model legume M. truncatula. Briefly, 82 MtPCs were divided into four subfamilies and clustered into seven clades, with a large proportion of tandem duplications and various cross-tissues expression patterns. Importantly, some PCs, such as MtPLC1, MtENODL27 and MtENODL28 were preferentially expressed in nodules. Further, RNA interference (RNAi) experiment revealed the knockdown of MtENDOL27 and MtENDOL28 impaired rhizobia infection, nodule numbers and nitrogenase activity. Moreover, in the MtENODL27-RNAi nodules, the infected cells were reduced and the symbiosomes did not reach the elongated stage, indicating MtENDOL27 is required for rhizobia infection and nodule development. In addition, co-expression analysis showed MtPLC1, MtENODL27 and MtENODL28 were grouped into two different functional modules and co-expressed with the known symbiotic nitrogen fixation-related genes, suggesting that they might participate in nodulation via different ways. In summary, this study provides a useful resource for future researches on the structure and function of PCs in nodulation.
This study supports the idea that the evolution of type III secretion system (T3SS) is one of the factors that controls Vigna radiata-bradyrhizobia symbiosis. Based on phylogenetic tree data and gene arrangements, it seems that the T3SSs of the Thai bradyrhizobial strains SUTN9-2, DOA1, and DOA9 and the Senegalese strain ORS3257 may share the same origin. Therefore, strains SUTN9-2, DOA1, DOA9, and ORS3257 may have evolved their T3SSs independently from other bradyrhizobia, depending on biological and/or geological events. For functional analyses, the rhcJ genes of ORS3257, SUTN9-2, DOA9, and USDA110 were disrupted. These mutations had cultivar-specific effects on nodulation properties. The T3SSs of ORS3257 and DOA9 showed negative effects on V. radiata nodulation, while the T3SS of SUTN9-2 showed no effect on V. radiata symbiosis. In the roots of V. radiata CN72, the expression levels of the PR1 gene after inoculation with ORS3257 and DOA9 were significantly higher than those after inoculation with ORS3257 ΩT3SS, DOA9 ΩT3SS, and SUTN9-2. The T3Es from ORS3257 and DOA9 could trigger PR1 expression, which ultimately leads to abort nodulation. In contrast, the T3E from SUTN9-2 reduced PR1 expression. It seems that the mutualistic relationship between SUTN9-2 and V. radiata may have led to the selection of the most well-adapted combination of T3SS and symbiotic bradyrhizobial genotype.
Correlations between the transcriptional responses of genes that encode superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), and peroxiredoxin (Prx) enzymes and Colletotrichum gloeosporioides development in cowpea leaves were assessed. Each of these genes is involved in the redox metabolism and hydrogen peroxide balance. Although electron microscopy revealed that conidia adhered to and germinated on the leaf cuticle, the inoculated cowpea leaves did not show any characteristic anthracnose symptoms. The adhered and germinated conidia showed irregular surfaces and did not develop further. This was apparently due to increased leaf H
The results provide a significant verification of functional redundancy and diversity of CUC/NAM genes in legumes. The CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON/NO APICAL MERISTEM (CUC/NAM) orthologs play key roles for plant organ boundary formation and organ development. Here, we performed a forward screen of the gamma irradiation mutagenesis population in mungbean and characterised a mutant, reduced rachis and fused leaflets (rrf1), which gave rise to the formation of compound leaves with reduced rachis and fused leaflets. Map-based cloning revealed that RRF1 encoded a CUC/NAM protein in mungbean. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that legume CUC1/CUC2 genes were classified as belonging to two subclades, and there are different copies of CUC1/CUC2 genes in legumes. Transcriptomic analysis showed that expression levels of a set of developmental regulators, including class I KNOTTED-LIKE HOMEOBOXI (KNOXI) gene and LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES DOMAIN (LBD) gene, were altered in rrf1 mutants compared to the wild-type plants. Furthermore, rrf1 genetically interacted with heptafoliate leaflets1 (hel1), a mutant displaying a seven-leaflet compound leaf, to regulate leaf development in mungbean. Our results suggest functional redundancy and diversity of two subclades of CUC1/CUC2 genes in legumes, following the duplication of an ancestral gene.
Environmental stresses can reduce crop yield and quality considerably. Plants protect cell metabolism in response to abiotic stresses at all stages of their life cycle, including seed production. As the production of vigorous seeds is important to both yield and crop growth, we analyzed causes of yield loss and reduced grain quality in staple crops exposed to environmental stresses such as drought and temperature extremes, with a focus on the remobilization of nutrients and water status during seed filling. Because water is one of the factors that limit seed development, seeds must have mechanisms that allow them to withstand water loss during seed maturation. In addition, analysis of the effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on transcription regulation and signaling should help to elucidate the regulation of seed dormancy and germination. In this review, we focus on nutrient remobilization, water mobility, plant hormones (gibberellins, abscisic acid, and ethylene), and ROS in sink and source organs and describe how rice, wheat, barley, soybean, and cowpea plants control seed maturation and germination under environmental stresses.
Stem growth habit is a key plant architecture trait determining yield potential in grain legumes, and the phenotypic change from the indeterminate stem growth habit of wild mungbeans (Vigna radiata) to the determinate stem growth habit of cultivated mungbeans is a critical domestication transition. Here we show that indeterminate stem growth in wild mungbean is modulated by a single gene, VrDet1, which encodes a signaling protein of shoot apical meristems. The transition from an indeterminate to a determinate stem growth habit was achieved by selection of two linked point mutations in two putative cis-regulatory elements, resulting in a significant reduction in gene expression. Both the wild-type nucleotides corresponding to the two point mutations were essential for VrDet1 function. In addition, two highly diverse haplotypes of Vrdet1 were found in cultivated mungbeans, suggesting dual domestication of Vrdet1. VrDet1 was orthologous to Dt1 in wild soybean and PvTFL1y in wild common bean, where multiple loss-of-function mutations altering the coding sequences of individual genes were selected to produce determinate stems in cultivated accessions. Interspecific comparison of these orthologs in the wild and cultivated accessions reveals the most conservative interspecific and intraspecific parallel domestication events with the broadest mutational spectrum of a domestication trait in leguminous crops. We also found that interspecifically and functionally conserved promoters possess cis-regulatory elements that are highly conserved in kind but greatly variable in number and order, demonstrating the evolutionary dynamics of regulatory sequences. This work provides insights into the origins of cultivated mungbean and exemplifies the conservativeness and plasticity of the domestication processes of related crops.
The production of pure enzymes in high quantities is a proven strategy to study the catalytic mechanism as well as the solving of structure at the atomic scale for therapeutic or industrial purposes. Phospholipase D (PLD, EC 3.1.4.4) is found in a wide majority of living organisms and has been shown to be involved in signal transduction, vesicle trafficking, and membrane metabolism processes. Located at the membrane-cytoplasm interface, plant PLDs are soluble but also bear an evident hydrophobic aspect making challenging its expression and its purification in large quantity. So far there is no high-resolution three-dimensional structure for a eukaryotic PLD. The protocols herein describe the cloning of the eukaryotic recombinant PLDα of Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) into the yeast expression system Pichia pastoris and its two-step purification process. This allowed us to purify to homogeneity hundreds of micrograms of highly pure protein to conduct in fine structural studies.
Symbiotic nitrogen fixation between legumes and rhizobia involves a coordinated expression of many plant and bacterial genes as well as finely tuned metabolic activities of micro- and macrosymbionts. In spite of such complex interactions, symbiotic proficiency remains a resilient process, with host plants apparently capable of compensating for some deficiencies in rhizobia. What controls nodule homeostasis is still poorly understood and probably varies between plant species. In this respect, the promiscuous Sinorhizobium (Ensifer) fredii strain NGR234 has become a model to assess the relative contribution of single gene products to many symbioses. Here, we describe how a deletion in nifQ of NGR234 (strain NGRΔnifQ) makes nodules of Vigna unguiculata, V. radiata, and Macroptilium atropurpureum but not of the mimisoid tree Leucaena leucocephala, purple-red. This peculiar dark-nodule phenotype did not necessarily correlate with a decreased proficiency of NGRΔnifQ but coincided with a 20-fold or more accumulation of coproporphyrin III and uroporphyrin III in V. unguiculata nodules. Porphyrin accumulation was not restricted to plant cells infected with bacteroids but also extended to the nodule cortex. Nodule metal-homeostasis was altered but not sufficiently to prevent assembly and functioning of nitrogenase. Although the role of NifQ in donating molybdenum during assembly of nitrogenase cofactor FeMo-co makes it essential in free-living diazotrophs, our results highlight the dispensability of NifQ in many legume species.
Under conditions of aluminum (Al) toxicity, which severely inhibits root growth in acidic soils, plants rapidly alter their gene expression to optimize physiological fitness for survival. Abscisic acid (ABA) has been suggested as a mediator between Al stress and gene expression, but the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we investigated ABA-mediated Al-stress responses, using integrated physiological and molecular biology approaches. We demonstrate that Al stress caused ABA accumulation in the root apex of rice bean (Vigna umbellata [Thunb.] Ohwi & Ohashi), which positively regulated Al tolerance. However, this was not associated with known Al-tolerance mechanisms. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that nearly one-third of the responsive genes were shared between the Al-stress and ABA treatments. We further identified a transcription factor, ABI5, as being positively involved in Al tolerance. Arabidopsis abi5 mutants displayed increased sensitivity to Al, which was not related to the regulation of AtALMT1 and AtMATE expression. Functional categorization of ABI5-mediated genes revealed the importance of cell wall modification and osmoregulation in Al tolerance, a finding supported by osmotic stress treatment on Al tolerance. Our results suggest that ABA signal transduction pathways provide an additional layer of regulatory control over Al tolerance in plants.
Cowpea is an important horticultural crop in tropical and subtropical areas of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, as well as parts of southern Europe and Central and South America. Chilling injury is a common physiological hazard of cowpea in cold chain logistics which reduce the cowpea pods nutritional quality and product value. However, the molecular mechanism involved in chilling injury remains unclear in cowpea pods. RNA-Seq and sRNA-Seq technologies were employed to decipher the miRNAs and mRNAs expression profiles and their regulatory networks in cowpea pods involved in chilling stress. Differentially expressed miRNAs and mRNA profiles were obtained based on cluster analysis, miRNAs and target genes were found to show coherent relationships in the regulatory networks of chilling injury. Furthermore, we found that numerous miRNAs and nat-siRNAs' targets were predicted to be key enzymes involved in the redox reactions such as POD, CAT, AO and LOX, energy metabolism such as ATPase, FAD and NAD related enzymes and different transcription factors such as WRKY, bHLH, MYB, ERF and NAC which play important roles in chilling injury.
Merely touching the pancreas can lead to premature zymogen activation and pancreatitis but the mechanism is not completely understood. Here we demonstrate that pancreatic acinar cells express the mechanoreceptor Piezo1 and application of pressure within the gland produces pancreatitis. To determine if this effect is through Piezo1 activation, we induce pancreatitis by intrapancreatic duct instillation of the Piezo1 agonist Yoda1. Pancreatitis induced by pressure within the gland is prevented by a Piezo1 antagonist. In pancreatic acinar cells, Yoda1 stimulates calcium influx and induces calcium-dependent pancreatic injury. Finally, selective acinar cell-specific genetic deletion of Piezo1 protects mice against pressure-induced pancreatitis. Thus, activation of Piezo1 in pancreatic acinar cells is a mechanism for pancreatitis and may explain why pancreatitis develops following pressure on the gland as in abdominal trauma, pancreatic duct obstruction, pancreatography, or pancreatic surgery. Piezo1 blockade may prevent pancreatitis when manipulation of the gland is anticipated.
This work studied the cell transport of peptidase-generated peptides from cowpea bean proteins and their effects on mRNA expression of cholesterol-related genes in intestinal and liver cells. The ≤3 kDa hydrolysate was obtained and incubated with Caco-2 intestinal cells using Transwell® plates. HepG2 liver cells were incubated with synthetic analogues of peptides (MELNAVSVVHS and MELNAVSVVSH) identified by "de novo" peptide sequencing in the Caco-2 monolayer permeates. The mRNA expression of NPC1L1, ABCA1 and ABCG1 was measured in Caco-2 cells, in the presence or absence of ≤3 kDa hydrolysate and the expression of HMGCR, SREBP2, LXRα, AMPK1, was determined in the HepG2 cells in the presence or absence of synthetic peptides. Exposure of Caco-2 cells to cowpea ≤3 kDa hydrolysate (2.5 and 5 mg/mL) increased ABCG1 expression at 6 h and 12 h. SREBP2, HMGCR and LDLR mRNA levels were reduced in HepG2 cells after 24 h of treatment with MELNAVSVVHS peptide (50 μM and 100 μM). These results suggest that MELNAVSVVHS peptide is able to cross intestinal barrier and to modulate genes involved in cholesterol homeostasis.
The agricultural crops are often affected by the scarcity of fresh water. Seasonal drought is a major constraint on Northeast Indian agriculture. Almost 80% of the agricultural land in this region is acidic and facing severe drought during the winter period. Apart from classical breeding and transgenic approaches, the application of plant-growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) is an alternative strategy for improving plant fitness under stressful conditions. The 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase-producing PGPB offer drought stress tolerance by regulating plant ethylene levels. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the consortium effect of three ACC-deaminase producing rhizobacteria - Ochrobactrum pseudogrignonenseRJ12, Pseudomonas sp.RJ15 and Bacillus subtilisRJ46 on drought stress alleviation in Vigna mungo L. and Pisum sativum L. Consortium treatment significantly increase seed germination percentage, root length, shoot length, and dry weight of treated plants. An elevated production of reactive oxygen species scavenging enzymes and cellular osmolytes; higher leaf chlorophyll content; increase in relative water content and root recovery intension were observed after consortium treatment in comparison with the uninoculated plants under drought conditions. The consortium treatment decreased the ACC accumulation and down-regulated ACC-oxidase gene expression. This consortium could be an effective bio-formulator for crop health improvement in drought-affected acidic agricultural fields.
Plant glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are integral to normal plant metabolism and biotic and abiotic stress tolerance. The GST gene family has been characterized in diverse plant species using molecular biology and bioinformatics approaches. In the current study, in silico analysis identified 44 GSTs in Vigna radiata. Of the total 44 GSTs identified, chromosomal locations of 31 GSTs were confirmed. The pI value of GST proteins ranged from 5.10 to 9.40. The predicted molecular weights ranged from 13.12 to 50 kDa. Subcellular localization analysis revealed that all GSTs were predominantly localized in the cytoplasm. The active site amino acids were confirmed to be serine in tau, phi, theta, zeta, and TCHQD; cysteine in lambda, DHAR, and omega; and tyrosine in EF1G. The gene architecture conformed to the two-exon/one-intron and three-exon/two-intron organization in the case of tau and phi classes, respectively. MEME analysis identified 10 significantly conserved motifs with the width of 8-50 amino acids. The motifs identified were either specific to a specific GST class or were shared by multiple GST classes. The results of the current study will be of potential importance in the characterization of the GST gene family in V. radiata, an economically important leguminous crop.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is an important source of protein supply for animal and human nutrition. The major storage globulins VICILIN and LEGUMIN (LEG) are synthesized from several genes including LEGA, LEGB, LEGJ and CVC (CONVICILIN). The current hypothesis is that the plant circadian core clock genes are conserved in a wide array of species and that primary metabolism is to a large extent controlled by the plant circadian clock. Our aim was to investigate a possible link between gene expression of storage proteins and the circadian clock. We identified cowpea orthologues of the core clock genes VunLHY, VunTOC1, VunGI and VunELF3, the protein storage genes VunLEG, VunLEGJ, and VunCVC as well as nine candidate reference genes used in RT-PCR. ELONGATION FACTOR 1-A (ELF1A) resulted the most suitable reference gene. The clock genes VunELF3, VunGI, VunTOC1 and VunLHY showed a rhythmic expression profile in leaves with a typical evening/night and morning/midday phased expression. The diel patterns were not completely robust and only VungGI and VungELF3 retained a rhythmic pattern under free running conditions of darkness. Under field conditions, rhythmicity and phasing apparently faded during early pod and seed development and was regained in ripening pods for VunTOC1 and VunLHY. Mature seeds showed a rhythmic expression of VunGI resembling leaf tissue under controlled growth chamber conditions. Comparing time windows during developmental stages we found that VunCVC and VunLEG were significantly down regulated during the night in mature pods as compared to intermediate ripe pods, while changes in seeds were non-significant due to high variance. The rhythmic expression under field conditions was lost under growth chamber conditions. The core clock gene network is conserved in cowpea leaves showing a robust diel expression pattern except VunELF3 under growth chamber conditions. There appears to be a clock transcriptional reprogramming in pods and seeds compared to leaves. Storage protein deposition may be circadian regulated under field conditions but the strong environmental signals are not met under artificial growth conditions. Diel expression pattern in field conditions may result in better usage of energy for protein storage.
The effects of exogenous ATP on the postharvest quality, browning and softening of mung bean (Vigna radiata) sprouts were evaluated. ATP treatment significantly alleviated the quality loss and browning events during the storage of 3 days. It also reduced the oxidant damage by inducing high activities of peroxidase (9.3-13.9%) and superoxide dismutase (8.8-10.3%) which scavenged the reactive oxygen species (ROS) effectively. Transcriptional results indicated that ATP treatment decreased VrPL1, VrPME and VrPG1 gene expression levels more than 2 folds at some time points. Furthermore, the atomic force microscope (AFM) images revealed that the pectin degradation was notably slowed by ATP treatment and the width and height of pectin backbone were better maintained (47.1% and 45.6% higher than control without ATP treatment). The cooperative effects of ROS scavenging and decreased expressions of pectin-related genes might contribute to the deferred pectin deterioration and firmness loss by ATP treatment.
Mung bean and adzuki bean are warm-season legumes widely cultivated in China. However, bean production in major producing regions is limited by biotic and abiotic stress, such as drought and salt stress. Basic leucine zipper (bZIP) genes play key roles in responses to various biotic and abiotic stresses. However, only several bZIP genes involved in drought and salt stress in legumes, especially Vigna radiata and Vigna angularis, have been identified. In this study, we identified 54 and 50 bZIP proteins from whole-genome sequences of V. radiata and V. angularis, respectively. First, we comprehensively surveyed the characteristics of all bZIP genes, including their gene structure, chromosome distribution and motif composition. Phylogenetic trees showed that VrbZIP and VabZIP proteins were divided into ten clades comprising nine known and one unknown subgroup. The results of the nucleotide substitution rate of the orthologous gene pairs showed that bZIP proteins have undergone strong purifying selection: V. radiata and V. angularis diverged 1.25 million years ago (mya) to 9.20 mya (average of 4.95 mya). We also found that many cis-acting regulatory elements (CAREs) involved in abiotic stress and plant hormone responses were detected in the putative promoter regions of the bZIP genes. Finally, using the quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) method, we performed expression profiling of the bZIP genes in response to drought, salt and abscisic acid (ABA). We identified several bZIP genes that may be involved in drought and salt responses. Generally, our results provided useful and rich resources of VrbZIP and VabZIP genes for the functional characterization and understanding of bZIP transcription factors (TFs) in warm-season legumes. In addition, our results revealed important and interesting data - a subset of VrbZIP and VabZIP gene expression profiles in response to drought, salt and ABA stress. These results provide gene expression evidence for the selection of candidate genes under drought and salt stress for future study.
Aluminum (Al)-induced organic acid secretion from the root apex is an important Al resistance mechanism. However, it remains unclear how plants fine-tune root organic acid secretion which can contribute significantly to the loss of fixed carbon from the plant. Here, we demonstrate that Al-induced citrate secretion from the rice bean root apex is biphasic, consisting of an early phase with low secretion and a later phase of large citrate secretion. We isolated and characterized VuMATE2 as a possible second citrate transporter in rice bean functioning in tandem with VuMATE1, which we previously identified. The time-dependent kinetics of VuMATE2 expression correlates well with the kinetics of early phase root citrate secretion. Ectopic expression of VuMATE2 in Arabidopsis resulted in increased root citrate secretion and Al resistance. Electrophysiological analysis of Xenopus oocytes expressing VuMATE2 indicated VuMATE2 mediates anion efflux. However, the expression regulation of VuMATE2 differs from VuMATE1. While a protein translation inhibitor suppressed Al-induced VuMATE1 expression, it releases VuMATE2 expression. Yeast one-hybrid assays demonstrated that a previously identified transcription factor, VuSTOP1, interacts with the VuMATE2 promoter at a GGGAGG cis-acting motif. Thus, we demonstrate that plants adapt to Al toxicity by fine-tuning root citrate secretion with two separate root citrate transport systems.
We are proposing mechanisms to account for the loss of viability (seed deterioration/ageing) and enhancement in seed quality (post-storage priming treatment). In order to understand the regulatory mechanism of these traits, we conducted controlled deterioration (CD) test for up to 8 d using primed mung bean seeds and examined how CD effects the expression of many genes, regulating the seed metabolism in relation to CD and priming. Germination declined progressively with increased duration of CD, and the priming treatment completely/partially reversed the inhibition depending on the duration of CD. The loss of germination capacity by CD was accompanied by a reduction in total RNA content and RNA integrity, indicating that RNA quantity and quality impacts seed longevity. Expression analysis revealed that biosynthesis genes of GA, ethylene, ABA and ROS-scavenging enzymes were differentially affected in response to duration of CD and priming, suggesting coordinately regulated mechanisms for controlling the germination capacity of seeds by modifying the permeability characteristics of biological membranes and activities of different enzymes. ABA genes were highly expressed when germination was delayed and inhibited by CD. Whereas, GA and ethylene genes were more highly expressed when germination was enhanced and permitted by priming under similar conditions. GSTI, a well characterized enzyme family involved in stress tolerance, was expressed in primed seeds over the period of CD, suggesting an additional protection against deterioration. The results are discussed in light of understanding the mechanisms underlying longevity/priming which are important issues economically and ecologically.
Cowpea is one of the most important food and forage legumes in drier regions of the tropics and subtropics. However, cowpea yield worldwide is markedly below the known potential due to abiotic and biotic stresses, including parasitism by root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp., RKN). Two resistance genes with dominant effect, Rk and Rk2, have been reported to provide resistance against RKN in cowpea. Despite their description and use in breeding for resistance to RKN and particularly genetic mapping of the Rk locus, the exact genes conferring resistance to RKN remain unknown. In the present work, QTL mapping using recombinant inbred line (RIL) population 524B x IT84S-2049 segregating for a newly mapped locus and analysis of the transcriptome changes in two cowpea near-isogenic lines (NIL) were used to identify candidate genes for Rk and the newly mapped locus. A major QTL, designated QRk-vu9.1, associated with resistance to Meloidogyne javanica reproduction, was detected and mapped on linkage group LG9 at position 13.37 cM using egg production data. Transcriptome analysis on resistant and susceptible NILs 3 and 9 days after inoculation revealed up-regulation of 109 and 98 genes and down-regulation of 110 and 89 genes, respectively, out of 19,922 unique genes mapped to the common bean reference genome. Among the differentially expressed genes, four and nine genes were found within the QRk-vu9.1 and QRk-vu11.1 QTL intervals, respectively. Six of these genes belong to the TIR-NBS-LRR family of resistance genes and three were upregulated at one or more time-points. Quantitative RT-PCR validated gene expression to be positively correlated with RNA-seq expression pattern for eight genes. Future functional analysis of these cowpea genes will enhance our understanding of Rk-mediated resistance and identify the specific gene responsible for the resistance.
Vigna mungo (L.)Hepper is an economically important leguminous crop in south-east Asia. However, its production is severely affected by Mungbean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV). It is well established that methyl jasmonate (MeJA) is effective in inducing resistance against pathogens in several plants. To assess the role of MeJA in developing MYMIV tolerance in V. mungo, we analysed time-dependent biochemical and molecular responses of MYMIV susceptible V. mungo after exogenous application of different MeJA concentrations, followed by MYMIV infection. Our analysis revealed that exogenous application of different concentrations of MeJA resulted in decreased levels of malondialdehyde with higher membrane stability index values in MYMIV susceptible V. mungo, suggesting the protective role of MeJA through restoring the membrane stability. Moreover, the level of expression of different antioxidative enzymes revealed that exogenous MeJA is also very effective in ROS homeostasis maintenance. Enhanced expressions of the defence marker genes lipoxygenase and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and the reduced expression of the MYMIV coat-protein encoding gene in all MeJA treated plants post MYMIV infection revealed that exogenous application of MeJA is effective for MYMIV tolerance in V. mungo. Our findings provide new insights into the physiological and molecular mechanisms of MYMIV tolerance in Vigna induced by MeJA.
We report a linkage map for Apios americana and describe synteny with selected warm-season legumes. A translocation event in common bean and soybean is confirmed against Apios and Vigna species. Apios (Apios americana; "apios"), a tuberous perennial legume in the Phaseoleae tribe, was widely used as a food by Native Americans. Work in the last 40 years has led to several improved breeding lines. Aspects of the pollination biology (complex floral structure and tripping mechanism) have made controlled crosses difficult, and the previous reports indicated that the plant is likely primarily an outcrosser. We used a pseudo-testcross strategy to construct a genetic map specific to the maternal parent. The map was built using single-nucleotide polymorphism markers identified by comparing the expressed sequences of individuals in the mapping population against a de novo maternal reference transcriptome assembly. The apios map consists of 11 linkage groups and 1121 recombinationally distinct loci, covering ~ 938.6 cM. By sequencing the transcriptomes of all potential pollen parents, we were able to identify the probable pollen donors and to discover new aspects of the pollination biology in apios. No selfing was observed, but multiple pollen parents were seen within individual pods. Comparisons with genome sequences in other species in the Phaseoleae showed extended synteny for most apios linkage groups. This synteny supports the robustness of the map, and also sheds light on the history of the Phaseoleae, as apios is relatively early diverging in this tribe. We detected a translocation event that separates apios and two Vigna species from Phaseolus vulgaris and Glycine max. This apios mapping work provides a general protocol for sequencing-based construction of high-density linkage maps in outcrossing species with heterogeneous pollen parents.
Many landraces of cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] are adapted to particular geographical and climatic conditions. Here we describe two landraces grown respectively in arid and temperate areas of Algeria and assess their physiological and molecular responses to drought stress. As expected, when deprived of water cowpea plants lose water over time with a gradual reduction in transpiration rate. The landraces differed in their relative water content (RWC) and whole plant transpiration rate. The landrace from Menia, an arid area, retained more water in adult leaves. Both landraces responded to drought stress at the molecular level by increasing expression of stress-related genes in aerial parts, including proline metabolism genes. Expression of gene(s) encoding proline synthesis enzyme P5CS was up regulated and gene expression of ProDH, a proline catabolism enzyme, was down regulated. Relatively low amounts of proline accumulated in adult leaves with slight differences between the two landraces. During drought stress the most apical part of plants stayed relatively turgid with a high RWC compared to distal parts that wilted. Expression of key stress genes was higher and more proline accumulated at the apex than in distal leaves indicating that cowpea has a non-uniform stress response at the whole plant level. Our study reveals a developmental control of water stress through preferential proline accumulation in the upper tier of the cowpea plant. We also conclude that cowpea landraces display physiological adaptations to water stress suited to the arid and temperate climates in which they are cultivated.
Yellow Mosaic Disease caused by the begomovirus Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV) severely affects many economically important legumes. Recent investigations in Vigna mungo - MYMIV incompatible interaction identified a MAPK homolog in the defense signaling pathway. An important branch of immunity involves phosphorylation by evolutionary conserved Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) that transduce signals of pathogen invasion to downstream molecules leading to diverse immune responses. However, most of the knowledge of MAPKs is derived from model crops, and functions of these versatile kinases are little explored in legumes. Here we report characterization of a MAP kinase (VmMAPK1), which was induced upon MYMIV-inoculation in resistant V. mungo. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that VmMAPK1 is closely related to other plant-stress-responsive MAPKs. Both mRNA and protein of VmMAPK1 were accumulated upon MYMIV infection. The VmMAPK1 protein localized in the nucleus as well as cytoplasm and possessed phosphorylation activity in vitro. A detailed biochemical characterization of purified recombinant VmMAPK1 demonstrated an intramolecular mechanism of autophosphorylation and self-catalyzed phosphate incorporation on both threonine and tyrosine residues. The V
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated phosphorylation cascade is a vital component of plant cellular signalling. Despite this, MAPK signalling cascade is less characterized in crop legumes. To fill this void, we present here a comprehensive phylogeny of MAPK kinases (MKKs) and MAPKs identified from 16 legume species belonging to genistoid (Lupinus angustifolius), dalbergioid (Arachis spp.), phaseoloid (Glycine max, Cajanus cajan, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Vigna spp.), and galegoid (Cicer arietinum, Lotus japonicus, Medicago truncatula, Pisum sativum, Trifolium spp., and Vicia faba) clades. Using the genes of the diploid crop chickpea (C. arietinum), an exhaustive interaction analysis was performed between MKKs and MAPKs by split-ubiquitin based yeast two-hybrid (Y2H). Twenty seven interactions of varying strengths were identified between chickpea MKKs and MAPKs. These interactions were verified in planta by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). As a first report in plants, four intra-molecular interactions of weak strength were identified within chickpea MKKs. Additionally; two TEOSINTE-BRANCHED1/CYCLOIDEA/PCF (TCP) transcription factors of class I were identified as novel down-stream interacting partners of seven MAPKs. We propose that this highly reliable MAPK interaction network, presented here for chickpea, can be utilized as a reference for legumes and thus will help in deciphering their role in legume-specific events.
Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is one of the most important legumes in tropical and semi-arid regions. However, there is relatively little genomic information available for genetic research on and breeding of cowpea. The objectives of this study were to analyse the cowpea transcriptome and develop genic molecular markers for future genetic studies of this genus. Approximately 54 million high-quality cDNA sequence reads were obtained from cowpea based on Illumina paired-end sequencing technology and were de novo assembled to generate 47,899 unigenes with an N50 length of 1534 bp. Sequence similarity analysis revealed 36,289 unigenes (75.8%) with significant similarity to known proteins in the non-redundant (Nr) protein database, 23,471 unigenes (49.0%) with BLAST hits in the Swiss-Prot database, and 20,654 unigenes (43.1%) with high similarity in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database. Further analysis identified 5560 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) as potential genic molecular markers. Validating a random set of 500 SSR markers yielded 54 polymorphic markers among 32 cowpea accessions. This transcriptomic analysis of cowpea provided a valuable set of genomic data for characterizing genes with important agronomic traits in Vigna unguiculata and a new set of genic SSR markers for further genetic studies and breeding in cowpea and related Vigna species.
The transport of proteins across the intestinal epithelium of insects is still not well understood. There is evidence that vicilin, a major storage protein of cowpea seeds (Vigna unguiculata), is internalized in larvae of the seed-beetle Callosobruchus maculatus. It has been reported that this vicilin interacts with proteins present in the microvillar membranes of columnar cells along the digestive tract of the larvae. In the present work, we studied the cellular pathway involved in endocytosis of vicilin in larval C. maculatus by employing ex vivo experiments. In the ex vivo approach, we incubated FITC-labelled vicilin with isolated midgut wholemounts in the absence or in the presence of endocytosis inhibitors. The fate of labelled or non-labelled globulins was monitored by confocal microscopy and fluorescence measurement. Our results suggest that the internalization of vicilins is due to receptor-mediated endocytosis. Here we report the identity of a microvillar vicilin-binding protein that was purified using affinity chromatography on a vicilin-sepharose column. The putative vicilin receptor showed high homology to proteins with the CRAL-TRIO domain, specifically the Sec14 superfamily member α-tocopherol transfer protein. The precise mechanism involved in vicilin internalization was defined through the use of specific inhibitors of the endocytosis pathway. The inhibitors filipin III and nystatin significantly inhibited the endocytosis of vicilin, while chlorpromazine and phenylarsine oxide had a much lower effect on endocytosis, suggesting that the endocytic pathway is predominantly mediated by caveolin.
Extracellular nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolases (NTPDases) are enzymes that hydrolyze extracellular nucleotides to the respective monophosphate nucleotides. In the past 20 years, NTPDases belonging to mammalian, parasitic and prokaryotic domains of life have been discovered, cloned and characterized. We reveal the first structures of NTPDases from the legume plant species Trifolium repens (7WC) and Vigna unguiculata subsp. cylindrica (DbLNP). Four crystal structures of 7WC and DbLNP were determined at resolutions between 1.9 and 2.6 Å. For 7WC, structures were determined for an -apo form (1.89 Å) and with the product AMP (2.15 Å) and adenine and phosphate (1.76 Å) bound. For DbLNP, a structure was solved with phosphate and manganese bound (2.60 Å). Thorough kinetic data and analysis is presented. The structure of 7WC and DbLNP reveals that these NTPDases can adopt two conformations depending on the molecule and co-factor bound in the active site. A central hinge region creates a "butterfly-like" motion of the domains that reduces the width of the inter-domain active site cleft upon molecule binding. This phenomenon has been previously described in Rattus norvegicus and Legionella pneumophila NTPDaseI and Toxoplasma gondii NTPDaseIII suggesting a common catalytic mechanism across the domains of life.
Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) causes significant losses in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) production. In this present study biochemical, physiological, and proteomic analysis were done to identify pathways and defense proteins that are altered during the incompatible interaction between the cowpea genotype BRS-Marataoã and CPSMV. The leaf protein extracts from mock- (MI) and CPSMV-inoculated plantlets (V) were evaluated at 2 and 6days post-inoculation (DPI). Data support the assumptions that increases in biochemical (high hydrogen peroxide, antioxidant enzymes, and secondary compounds) and physiological responses (high photosynthesis index and chlorophyll content), confirmed by label-free comparative proteomic approach, in which quantitative changes in proteasome proteins, proteins related to photosynthesis, redox homeostasis, regulation factors/RNA processing proteins were observed may be implicated in the resistance of BRS-Marataoã to CPSMV. This pioneering study provides information for the selection of specific pathways and proteins, altered in this incompatible relationship, which could be chosen as targets for detailed studies to advance our understanding of the molecular, physiological, and biochemistry basis of the resistance mechanism of cowpea and design approachs to engineer plants that are more productive. This is a pioneering study in which an incompatible relationship between a resistant cowpea and Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) was conducted to comparatively evaluate proteomic profiles by Gel-free/label-free methodology and some physiological and biochemical parameters to shed light on how a resistant cowpea cultivar deals with the virus attack. Specific proteins and associated pathways were altered in the cowpea plants challenged with CPSMV and will contribute to our knowledge on the biological process tailored by cowpea in response to CPSMV.
The MYB gene family represents one of the largest groups of transcription factors in plants. Recent evidences have also demonstrated key role of MYB transcription factors in regulating the expression of major genes involved in the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoid compounds which confer biotic and abiotic stress tolerance in plant species. However, no comprehensive genome-wide analysis of the phenylpropanoid pathway-associated MYB transcription factors has been reported thus far. In this study, 11 Arabidopsis MYB proteins, such as MYB3, MYB4, MYB7, MYB11, MYB12, MYB32, MYB75, MYB90, MYB111, MYB113, and MYB114 were initially identified considering their reported regulatory function in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway. Subsequent genome-wide analysis have identified the corresponding homologues from Glycine max, Vigna radiata, Oryza sativa, and Zea mays, while homologous of Arabidopsis MYB75, MYB90, MYB113, and MYB114 were not detected in rice and maize genomes. The identified MYB proteins were classified into three groups (I-III) based on phylogeny. Sequence and domain analysis revealed presence of two conserved DNA binding MYB domains in the selected MYB proteins. Promoter analysis indicated presence of cis-regulatory elements related to light signaling, development, and stress response. Expression analysis of selected Arabidopsis MYB genes revealed their function in plant development and abiotic stress response, consistent with gene ontology annotations. Together, these results provide a useful framework for further experimental studies for the functional characterization of the target MYB genes in the context of regulation of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and plant stress response.
Environmental changes generate free radicals and reactive oxygen species (ROS) resulting in abiotic stress in plants. This causes alterations in germination, morphology, growth and development ultimately leading to yield loss. Gamma irradiation was used to experimentally induce oxidative damage in an important pulse crop Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek or mung bean. Our research was aimed towards augmentation of oxidative stress tolerance through treatment with a group of aliphatic amines known as polyamines. We used sub-lethal doses of gamma irradiation to generate oxidative damage which was evaluated using Nitro blue tetrazolium (NBT) staining, total antioxidant activity, 1, 1-Diphenyl-2-picryl hydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging assay, proline content and lipid peroxidation. Changes in internal free polyamines and messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression of key rate-limiting S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC) enzyme in polyamine biosynthetic pathway was studied using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). We observed increased oxidative damage with higher irradiation dose which was partially alleviated by putrescine treatment. Internal levels of putrescine and spermidine increased with 1 mM (50 and 100 Gy) and 2 mM putrescine treatment. Expression of SAMDC also increased with putrescine treatment. This study shows that treatment with putrescine can partially alleviate oxidative damage caused by gamma rays.
Black gram (Vigna mungo) seeds are a rich source of digestible proteins, however, during storage these seeds are severely damaged by bruchids (Callosobruchus spp.), reducing seed quality and yield losses. Most of the cultivated genotypes of black gram are susceptible to bruchids, however, few tolerant genotypes have also been identified but the mechanism of tolerance is poorly understood. We employed Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH) to identify specifically, but rarely expressed bruchid egg induced genes in black gram. In this study, Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH) library was constructed to study the genes involved in defense response in black gram against bruchid infestation. An EST library of 277 clones was obtained for further analyses. Based on CAP3 assembly, 134 unigenes were computationally annotated using Blast2GOPRO software. In all, 20 defense related genes were subject to quantitative PCR analysis (qPCR) out of which 12 genes showed up-regulation in developing seeds of the pods oviposited by bruchids. Few major defense genes like defensin, pathogenesis related protein (PR), lipoxygenase (LOX) showed high expression levels in the oviposited population when compared with the non-oviposited plants. This is the first report on defense related gene transcript dynamics during the bruchid-black gram interaction using SSH library. This library would be useful to clone defense related gene(s) such as defensin as represented in our library for crop improvement.
Two cysteine proteinase inhibitors from cowpea, VuCys1 and VuCys2, were produced in E. coli ArcticExpress (DE3). The recombinant products strongly inhibited papain and chymopapain as well as the midgut proteases from Callosobruchus maculatus larvae, a bruchid that uses cysteine proteases as major digestive enzymes. Heat treatment at 100°C for up to 60min or incubation at various pH values caused little reduction in the papain inhibitory activity of both inhibitors. Moreover, minor conformational variations, as probed by circular dichroism spectroscopy, were observed after VuCys1 and VuCys2 were subjected to these treatments. The crystal structure of VuCys1 was determined at a resolution of 1.95Å, revealing a domain-swapped dimer in the asymmetric unit. However, the two lobes of the domain-swapped dimer are positioned closer to each other in VuCys1 in comparison to other similar cystatin structures. Moreover, some polar residues from opposite lobes recruit water molecules, forming a hydrogen bond network that mediates contacts between the lobes, thus generating an extended open interface. Due to the closer distance between the lobes, a small hydrophobic core is also formed, further stabilizing the folded domain-swapped dimer. These structural features might account for the extraordinary thermal and pH stability of VuCys1.
Host specialization is an ubiquitous character in aphid populations. Many polyphagous aphid populations usually consist of several subpopulations that have strong fidelity to a specific host or a subset of host range. Host specialization is an evolutional result of food habit of insects. However, genetic basis and molecular mechanism of host specialization are still unclear. In this study, we presented a comparative analysis on global gene expression profiles of three lineages of Aphis gossypii Glover: cotton-specialized (CO), cucurbit-specialized (CU), and CU reared on cowpea (CU-cowpea), using RNA-Seq method. More than 157 million clean reads and 38,398 different unigenes were generated from transcriptomes of these three aphid lineages. The 1,106 down- and 2,835 up-regulated genes were found between CO and CU, and 812 down- and 14,492 up-regulated genes between CU-cowpea and CU. Differentially expressed genes between CO and CU were enriched in sugar metabolism, immune system process, pathogen infection or symbiosis, and salivary secretion. Genes associated with cytochrome P450, major facilitator superfamily, and salivary effector were differentially expressed between CO and CU, which might be involved in determining host specialization. UDP-glycosyltransferases genes were sensitive to host shift. Carboxylesterases and digestion-related protease genes were related to both the host specialization and host shift of aphids. Expression levels of 22 out of 24 genes of CO and CU measured by RT-qPCR method were as similar as the results from RNA-seq method. This study provides a road map for future study on molecular mechanism of host specialization in aphids.
Lead (Pb) is one of the most toxic anthropogenic pollutants, occurring widely in both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, where it impairs plant growth and development. In this work, the effect of 0.5 mM EDTA-Pb was evaluated in two Vigna unguiculata cultivars (SV and SET), with the aim of detecting genotype/cultivar dependent changes in the physiological and anti-oxidant responses (CAT and APX) of a leguminous plant. The data showed that SV accumulated more Pb in roots while SET accumulated more in leaves, indicating differential regulation in Pb-translocation/accumulation. Lead affected the growth of SV less severely than SET, mainly associated with reduced inhibition in photosynthetic parameters. Furthermore, CAT and APX activities increased or were sustained at elevated levels in both cultivars in response to lead. However, gene expression analyses revealed that CAT1 was the main lead responsive gene in SET while CAT2 was more responsive in SV. APX1 was higher expressed in tissues with higher Pb-accumulation while APX2 was ubiquitously responsive to lead in both cultivars. Taken together, these results reveal differential ability of V. unguiculata cultivars in Pb-accumulation in different tissues affecting distinctly physiological and anti-oxidant responses. In addition, the existence of cultivars with predominant Pb-accumulation in aerial tissues invokes a need for studies to identify pollution-safe cultivars of leguminous plants to ensure food safety.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are 20-24 nucleotides long non-coding RNAs known to play important regulatory roles during biotic and abiotic stresses by controlling gene expression. Blackgram (Vigna mungo), an economically important grain legume is highly susceptible to pathogenic begomovirus Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV) and resulting in high yield loss. In this study two different leaf-small-RNA libraries were prepared from the pooled RNA at three different time points of resistant V. mungo inbred line VM84 inoculated either with viruliferous or non-viruliferous whiteflies carrying MYMIV and performed high-throughput Illumina sequencing. Sequencing followed by bioinformatics analysis of the small RNA reads indicated that the expression patterns of most of the known and novel miRNAs were altered in resistant line over mock-inoculated sample during the plant virus incompatible interaction. Highly altered miRNAs belong to the families of miR156, miR159, miR160, miR166, miR398, miR1511, miR1514, miR2118 and novel vmu-miRn7, vmu-miRn8, vmu-miRn13 and vmu-miRn14. These results were validated using qPCR, and most of the miRNAs showed similar pattern of expression like that of Illumina reads. The expression patterns of some selected known and novel miRNAs were also compared between the infected MYMIV-resistant and -susceptible genotypes and most of these were modulated after MYMIV-inoculation. Target transcripts like NB-LRR, NAC, MYB, Zinc finger, CCAAT-box transcription factor, fructose 2-6 bisphosphate, HDZIP protein that confers immune response were predicted as targets amongst identified miRNAs using psRNATarget server. Some selected target transcripts including NB-LRR, ARF, SOD, SPB, Basic blue copper protein were validated and their differential expression were demonstrated between MYMIV-resistant and -susceptible V. mungo by qPCR data analyses. In the present study we have identified miRNAs that implicate in the regulation of MYMIV-induced stress response in V. mungo; and generated genomic resources for a non-model legume with the aid of bioinformatics tools supplemented by experimental validation.
Global interest in sugarcane has increased significantly in recent years because of its economic impact on sustainable energy production. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate changes in the concentrations of total sugars, amino acids, free proline, and total proteins by colorimetric analyses and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) to perform a metabolic profiling of a water-soluble fraction of symplastic sap in response to the constitutive expression of a mutant Δ
Hydrogen peroxide (H RNA-Seq data revealed that H Using RNA-Seq and qRT-PCR techniques, we analysed the global changes in gene expression and functional profiling during H
Cowpea is a grain legume native from Africa and is a primary source of protein for millions of people in sub-Saharan Africa and other parts of the developing world. The main important characteristics of this crop include a good protein quality with a high nutritional value, its nitrogen-fixing ability, and an ability to be more drought- and heat-tolerant than most of its legume relatives. In a research perspective, studies of cowpea are relatively scarce, despite its relevance to agriculture in the developing world and its resilience to stress. The present review provides an overview of different aspects of cowpea, with a special emphasis on the molecular markers for assessing genetic diversity, as well as on biochemical and transcriptomic data with respect to evaluating cowpea drought stress tolerance. The integration of both datasets will be useful for the improvement of cowpea because research on drought stress tolerance is of major interest for this crop in a challenging environment. © 2017 Society of Chemical Industry.
Cereals and legumes are traditionally consumed together in many cultures, and may provide complementary health benefits beyond what is known about improved indispensable amino acid intake. Here, we use an in vitro model of inflammatory pathways to investigate whether the different flavonoids in sorghum and cowpea could synergistically reduce inflammation. Interactive effect of combining apigenin and quercetin, as well as extracts (70% acetone, v/v) from a flavone-dominated white sorghum and flavonol-dominated white cowpea, against LPS-induced NF-κB and downstream cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8) gene and protein expression was evaluated using the CCD18Co colon myofibroblasts. Combination of apigenin and quercetin, and sorghum and cowpea extracts synergistically downregulated LPS-induced NF-κB gene and protein expression in a dose-dependent manner, with additive effect producing IC Combining the structurally related cereal flavones and legume flavonols elicit strong synergistic anti-inflammatory response in LPS-stimulated nonmalignant colonocytes, likely by targeting interdependent mechanisms.
DNA methylation on cytosine residues is known to affect gene expression and is potentially responsible for the phenotypic variations among different crop cultivars. Here, we present the whole-genome DNA methylation profiles and assess the potential effects of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for two mungbean cultivars, Sunhwanogdu (VC1973A) and Kyunggijaerae#5 (V2984). By measuring the DNA methylation levels in leaf tissue with the bisulfite sequencing (BSseq) approach, we show both the frequencies of the various types of DNA methylation and the distribution of weighted gene methylation levels. SNPs that cause nucleotide changes from/to CHH - where C is cytosine and H is any other nucleotide - were found to affect DNA methylation status in VC1973A and V2984. In order to better understand the correlation between gene expression and DNA methylation levels, we surveyed gene expression in leaf tissues of VC1973A and V2984 using RNAseq. Transcript expressions of paralogous genes were controlled by DNA methylation within the VC1973A genome. Moreover, genes that were differentially expressed between the two cultivars showed distinct DNA methylation patterns. Our mungbean genome-wide methylation profiles will be valuable resources for understanding the phenotypic variations between different cultivars, as well as for molecular breeding.
The potential benefits of Aspergillus-fermented mung bean seed coats (FMSC) for weaned pigs remain unexplored. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments were employed to evaluate the potential of FMSC supplement on the growth, antioxidant and immune responses of weaned pigs. The total polyphenols and DPPH scavenging capability of ethanol extract of FMSC exhibited a greater (p < 0.01) increase than those of pre-fermentation. With the addition of the polyphenol of FMSC extract, an increase in phagocytosis by neutrophils and proliferation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were found. However, these observations were significantly inhibited (p < 0.05) in those activated cells. Next, 96 weaned pigs were allotted with a randomized complete block design into four dietary treatments, including 0 (control), 600, 1200 or 1800 mg/kg FMSC in a corn-soya bean meal basal diet for a 35-day trial. The pigs were injected with swine enzootic pneumonia (SEP) vaccines at day 3 and day 21 respectively. The results showed that dietary treatment failed to affect growth performance or serum SEP titre. The diet supplemented with 600-1800 mg/kg FMSC decreased faecal lactoferrin on day 21 and increased plasma trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) and erythrocytes catalase activity, as well as decreased (p < 0.01) plasma malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration on day 35. Diet supplementation of 1800 mg/kg FMSC increased phagocytosis by neutrophils and PBMC proliferation induced by pokeweed mitogen (PWM). However, the polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMN)-positive respiratory burst cells were decreased in the supplementation of 1200 or 1800 mg/kg FMSC respectively. In addition, the serum haptoglobin concentration was decreased in the supplementation with 1200 mg/kg FMSC. Taken together, FMSC enriches polyphenols with antioxidative and immune modulated properties. After feeding FMSC, an improvement in antioxidative capability and immunocompetence was found, implying that FMSC could provide as a feed additive at optimal level 1200 mg/kg for weaned pigs.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) is one of the most important legume crops in Asian countries like China, Japan and Korea due to its nutritious protein and starch contents. In spite of its economic importance, gene expression analysis system for gene function verification of adzuki bean is still absent. Therefore, reference genes for gene expression analysis based on the quantitative real time PCR (qRT-PCR) were screened in current study. A total of nine general housekeeping genes, including ACT, Fbox, ZMPP, GAPDH, EF, PP2A, UBC, UBN and PTB were evaluated for their expression stability by qRT-PCR in four adzuki bean cultivars, three different tissues, four abiotic stress and one biotic stress. The best group of candidates as reference genes were as follows: PTB and ACT for different cultivars; EF and UBN for different tissues; ACT and ZMPP for biotic stress and waterlogging stress; Fbox and UBC for salinity-alkalinity stress; Fbox and PTB for drought stress. Our results will provide a more accurate and reliable normalization of qRT-PCR data in adzuki bean.
The type III secretion system (T3SS) is a specialized secretion apparatus that is commonly used by many plant and animal pathogenic bacteria to deliver proteins, termed effectors, to the interior of the host cells. These effectors suppress host defenses and interfere with signal transduction pathways to promote infection. Some rhizobial strains possess a functional T3SS, which is involved in the suppression of host defense responses, host range determination, and symbiotic efficiency. The analysis of the genome of the broad-host-range rhizobial strain
Viruses are important plant pathogens that threaten diverse crops worldwide. Diseases caused by Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) have drawn attention because of the serious damages they cause to economically important crops including cowpea. This work was undertaken to quantify and identify the responsive proteins of a susceptible cowpea genotype infected with CPSMV, in comparison with mock-inoculated controls, using label-free quantitative proteomics and databanks, aiming at providing insights on the molecular basis of this compatible interaction. Cowpea leaves were mock- or CPSMV-inoculated and 2 and 6 days later proteins were extracted and analyzed. More than 3000 proteins were identified (data available via ProteomeXchange, identifier PXD005025) and 75 and 55 of them differentially accumulated in response to CPSMV, at 2 and 6 DAI, respectively. At 2 DAI, 76% of the proteins decreased in amount and 24% increased. However, at 6 DAI, 100% of the identified proteins increased. Thus, CPSMV transiently suppresses the synthesis of proteins involved particularly in the redox homeostasis, protein synthesis, defense, stress, RNA/DNA metabolism, signaling, and other functions, allowing viral invasion and spread in cowpea tissues.
As the prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), including steatosis and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, is increasing, novel dietary approaches are required for the prevention and treatment of NAFLD. We evaluated the potential of mung bean protein isolate (MuPI) to prevent NAFLD progression. In Expts. 1 and 2, the hepatic triglyceride (TG) concentration was compared between 8-wk-old male mice fed a high-fat diet (61% of energy from fat) containing casein, MuPI, and soy protein isolate and an MuPI-constituent amino acid mixture as a source of amino acids (18% of energy) for 4 wk. In Expt. 3, hepatic fatty acid synthase (Fasn) expression was evaluated in 8-wk-old male Fasn-promoter-reporter mice fed a casein- or MuPI-containing high-fat diet for 20 wk. In Expt. 4, hepatic fibrosis was examined in 8-wk-old male mice fed an atherogenic diet (61% of energy from fat, containing 1.3 g cholesterol/100 g diet) containing casein or MuPI (18% of energy) as a protein source for 20 wk. In the high fat-diet mice, the hepatic TG concentration in the MuPI group decreased by 66% and 47% in Expt. 1 compared with the casein group (P < 0.001) and the soy protein isolate group (P = 0.001), respectively, and decreased by 56% in Expt. 2 compared with the casein group (P = 0.011). However, there was no difference between the MuPI-constituent amino acid mixture and casein groups in Expt. 2. In Expt. 3, Fasn-promoter-reporter activity and hepatic TG concentration were lower in the MuPI group than in those fed casein (P < 0.05). In Expt. 4, in mice fed an atherogenic diet, hepatic fibrosis was not induced in the MuPI group, whereas it developed overtly in the casein group. MuPI potently reduced hepatic lipid accumulation in mice and may be a potential foodstuff to prevent NAFLD onset and progression.
Urochloa humidicola (Koronivia grass) is a polyploid (6x to 9x) species that is used as forage in the tropics. Facultative apospory apomixis is present in most of the genotypes of this species, although one individual has been described as sexual. Molecular studies have been restricted to molecular marker approaches for genetic diversity estimations and linkage map construction. The objectives of the present study were to describe and compare the leaf transcriptome of two important genotypes that are highly divergent in terms of their phenotypes and reproduction modes: the sexual BH031 and the aposporous apomictic cultivar BRS Tupi. We sequenced the leaf transcriptome of Koronivia grass using an Illumina GAIIx system, which produced 13.09 Gb of data that consisted of 163,575,526 paired-end reads between the two libraries. We de novo-assembled 76,196 transcripts with an average length of 1,152 bp and filtered 35,093 non-redundant unigenes. A similarity search against the non-redundant National Center of Biotechnology Information (NCBI) protein database returned 65 % hits. We annotated 24,133 unigenes in the Phytozome database and 14,082 unigenes in the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot database, assigned 108,334 gene ontology terms to 17,255 unigenes and identified 5,324 unigenes in 327 known metabolic pathways. Comparisons with other grasses via a reciprocal BLAST search revealed a larger number of orthologous genes for the Panicum species. The unigenes were involved in C4 photosynthesis, lignocellulose biosynthesis and flooding stress responses. A search for functional molecular markers revealed 4,489 microsatellites and 560,298 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). A quantitative real-time PCR analysis validated the RNA-seq expression analysis and allowed for the identification of transcriptomic differences between the two evaluated genotypes. Moreover, 192 unannotated sequences were classified as containing complete open reading frames, suggesting that the new, potentially exclusive genes should be further investigated. The present study represents the first whole-transcriptome sequencing of U. humidicola leaves, providing an important public information source of transcripts and functional molecular markers. The qPCR analysis indicated that the expression of certain transcripts confirmed the differential expression observed in silico, which demonstrated that RNA-seq is useful for identifying differentially expressed and unique genes. These results corroborate the findings from previous studies and suggest a hybrid origin for BH031.
The effects of sodium citrate (SC), sodium acetate (SA) and sodium tartrate (ST) spraying on mung bean germination were investigated. Exogenous SC, ST and SA treatments significantly reduced the phytic acid content and increased the antioxidant enzyme activities. In this study, an iTRAQ-based proteomic approach was employed to explore the proteomes of mung bean sprouts, and 81, 101 and 90 differentially expressed proteins were identified in 4-day-old SC-, SA- and ST-treated mung bean sprouts, with 38 proteins present in all samples. Functional classification analysis showed that most of the differentially expressed proteins in mung bean sprouts subjected to the three treatments were involved in carbohydrate and energy metabolism. The inhibitory effect of the SA treatment was probably due to impairments in protein biosynthesis, whereas enhanced energy metabolism, accelerated reserve hydrolysis and protein processing were very important strategies for growth stimulation in response to ST and SC treatments.
The physiological and biochemical responses of a drought tolerant, virus-susceptible cowpea genotype exposed to drought stress (D), infected by Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) (V), and to these two combined stresses (DV), at 2 and 6 days post viral inoculation (DPI), were evaluated. Gas exchange parameters (net photosynthesis, transpiration rate, stomatal conductance, and internal CO
Mungbean (Vigna radiata L. Wilczek) is one of the most important leguminous food crops in Asia. We employed Illumina paired-end sequencing to analyse transcriptomes of three different mungbean genotypes. A total of 38.3-39.8 million pairedend reads with 73 bp lengths were generated. The pooled reads from the three libraries were assembled into 56,471 transcripts. Following a cluster analysis, 43,293 unigenes were obtained with an average length of 739 bp and N50 length of 1176 bp. Of the unigenes, 34,903 (80.6%) had significant similarity to known proteins in the NCBI nonredundant protein database (Nr), while 21,450 (58.4%) had BLAST hits in the Swiss-Prot database (E-value<10⁻⁵). Further, 1245 differential expression genes were detected among three mungbean genotypes. In addition, we identified 3788 expressed sequence tag-simple sequence repeat (EST-SSR) motifs that could be used as potential molecular markers. Among 320 tested loci, 310 (96.5%) yielded amplification products, and 151 (47.0%) exhibited polymorphisms among six mungbean accessions. These transcriptome data and mungbean EST-SSRs could serve as a valuable resource for novel gene discovery and the marker-assisted selective breeding of this species.
Cowpea (V. unguiculata L. Walp) is a climate resilient legume crop important for food security. Cultivated cowpea (V. unguiculata L) generally comprises the bushy, short-podded grain cowpea dominant in Africa and the climbing, long-podded vegetable cowpea popular in Asia. How selection has contributed to the diversification of the two types of cowpea remains largely unknown. In the current study, a novel genotyping assay for over 50 000 SNPs was employed to delineate genomic regions governing pod length. Major, minor and epistatic QTLs were identified through QTL mapping. Seventy-two SNPs associated with pod length were detected by genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Population stratification analysis revealed subdivision among a cowpea germplasm collection consisting of 299 accessions, which is consistent with pod length groups. Genomic scan for selective signals suggested that domestication of vegetable cowpea was accompanied by selection of multiple traits including pod length, while the further improvement process was featured by selection of pod length primarily. Pod growth kinetics assay demonstrated that more durable cell proliferation rather than cell elongation or enlargement was the main reason for longer pods. Transcriptomic analysis suggested the involvement of sugar, gibberellin and nutritional signalling in regulation of pod length. This study establishes the basis for map-based cloning of pod length genes in cowpea and for marker-assisted selection of this trait in breeding programmes.
Acyl Activating Enzyme3 (AAE3) was identified to be involved in the catabolism of oxalate, which is critical for seed development and defense against fungal pathogens. However, the role of AAE3 protein in abiotic stress responses is unknown. Here, we investigated the role of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) VuAAE3 in Al tolerance. Recombinant VuAAE3 protein has specific activity against oxalate, with K
Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-[India:Vigna] (MYMV-[IN:Vig]), a blackgram isolate of MYMV, causes yellow mosaic disease in blackgram and mungbean. Two variable DNA-B components, KA22 and KA27, cause distinct symptoms in blackgram [V. mungo (L.) Hepper] with the same DNA-A component. KA22 + DNA-A-agroinoculated blackgram plants displayed yellow mosaic symptom and accumulated high levels of viral single-stranded (ss) DNA. KA27 + DNA-A-agroinoculated blackgram plants displayed severe stunting symptom and accumulated very low levels of viral ssDNA. However, in mungbean [V. radiata (L.) Wilczek], KA27 + DNA-A caused yellow mosaic symptom and a high level of viral ssDNA accumulated. Swapping of KA27 DNA-B with the nuclear shuttle protein gene (NSP) of KA22 DNA-B (KA27xKA22 NSP) caused yellow mosaic symptom in blackgram, suggesting that KA22 NSP is the determinant of yellow mosaic symptom. Interestingly, KA27xKA22 NSP-infected blackgram plants accumulated high levels of viral ssDNA, comparable to that of KA22 DNA-B infection, suggesting that the KA22 NSP is responsible for accumulation of high levels of viral ssDNA. MYMV distribution was studied in blackgram and mungbean plants by leaf tissue hybridization, which showed mesophyll spread of the virus in KA22-infected blackgram leaflets and in KA27-infected mungbean leaflets, both of which displayed yellow mosaic symptom. However, the virus did not accumulate in the mesophyll in the case of KA27-infected blackgram leaflets. Interestingly, the swapped KA27xKA22 NSP-infected blackgram leaflets showed mesophyll accumulation of the virus, suggesting that KA22 NSP determines its mesophyll spread.
In this study on 90 individuals we aimed at evaluating the microRNAs (miRNAs) expression profile associated with personal levels of Titanium (Ti) and Zirconium (Zr) traced in hair samples. Ti and Zr materials are broadly used for dental implants but the biological reactions triggered by a long term presence of these materials in the oral cavity still need to be assessed. MiRNAs are mechanisms that need to be investigated as they play a fundamental role in the control of gene expression following external stimuli and contribute to a wide range of pathophysiological processes. Using the TaqMan® Low-Density Array, we assessed the expression levels of 377 human miRNAs in peripheral blood of 90 subjects. Hair samples were analyzed for Ti and Zr content using Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry. We performed multivariable regression analysis to investigate the effects of Ti and Zr exposure on miRNA expression levels. We used the Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software to explore the functional role of the investigated miRNAs and the related target genes. Seven miRNAs (miR-99b, miR-142-5p, miR-152, miR-193a-5p, miR-323-3p, miR-335, miR-494) resulted specifically associated with Zr levels. The functional target analysis showed that miRNAs are involved in mechanisms such as inflammation, skeletal and connective tissue disorders. Our data suggest that Zr is more bioactive than Ti and show that miRNAs are relevant molecular mechanisms sensitive to Zr exposure.
Piriformospora indica biomass generated in different growth media Rose Bengal medium, Kaefer's Medium, Enriched Soil Medium, Malt extract Medium and Czapek Dox was quantified and? their bioinoculum potential was compared using? moong bean (Vigna radiata) as? test plant. Plant chlorophyll content in response to inoculations was lowest in Rose Bengal medium (2.772mg plant-1) and highest due to inoculum produced on Enriched soil Medium (3.694 mg plant-1). The highest nitrogen content (19.260 mg plant-1) was recorded by inoculum produced on Kaefer's Medium followed by Enriched Soil Medium (19.123 mg plant-1), ME (18.19 mg plant-1) and CD medium (17.71 mg plant-1). The highest plant phosphorus uptake was registered in Enriched Soil Medium (17.153 mg plant-1) followed by Kaefer's Medium (17.023 mg plant-1). Maximum dry weight of plants was observed by inoculation with fungus cultured in Kaefer's Medium (3.416 g pot-1) and Enriched Soil Medium (3.349 g pot-1). Thus, growth medium used for the culture of fungus can influence its bioefficacy as plant growth promoting agent and Piriformospora indica can be grown on cost effective and simple mass multiplication medium which could augment its usage for commercial purposes.
Proteasome inhibitors are emerging as a new class of chemopreventive agents and have gained huge importance as potential pharmacological tools in breast cancer treatment. Improved understanding of the role played by proteases and their specific inhibitors in humans offers novel and challenging opportunities for preventive and therapeutic intervention. In this study, we demonstrated that the Bowman-Birk protease inhibitor from Vigna unguiculata seeds, named black-eyed pea trypsin/chymotrypsin Inhibitor (BTCI), potently suppresses human breast adenocarcinoma cell viability by inhibiting the activity of proteasome 20S. BTCI induced a negative growth effect against a panel of breast cancer cells, with a concomitant cytostatic effect at the G2/M phase of the cell cycle and an increase in apoptosis, as observed by an augmented number of cells at the sub-G1 phase and annexin V-fluorescin isothiocyanate (FITC)/propidium iodide (PI) staining. In contrast, BTCI exhibited no cytotoxic effect on normal mammary epithelial cells. Moreover, the increased levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and changes in the mitochondrial membrane potential in cells treated with BTCI indicated mitochondrial damage as a crucial cellular event responsible for the apoptotic process. The higher activity of caspase in tumoral cells treated with BTCI in comparison with untreated cells suggests that BTCI induces apoptosis in a caspase-dependent manner. BTCI affected NF-kB target gene expression in both non invasive and invasive breast cancer cell lines, with the effect highly pronounced in the invasive cells. An increased expression of interleukin-8 (IL-8) in both cell lines was also observed. Taken together, these results suggest that BTCI promotes apoptosis through ROS-induced mitochondrial damage following proteasome inhibition. These findings highlight the pharmacological potential and benefit of BTCI in breast cancer treatment.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) is an important rotation legume crop for human nutrition in Asia. Bruchids (Callosobruchus spp.) currently cause heavy damage as pests of grain legumes during storage. We used omics-related technologies to study the mechanisms of bruchid resistance in seeds of the nearly isogenic lines VC1973A (bruchid-susceptible) and VC6089A (bruchid-resistant). A total of 399 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between the two lines by transcriptome sequencing. Among these DEGs, 251 exhibited high expression levels and 148 expressed low expression levels in seeds of VC6089A. Forty-five differential proteins (DPs) were identified by isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ); 21 DPs had higher abundances in VC6089A, and 24 DPs had higher abundances in VC1973A. According to transcriptome and proteome data, only three DEGs/DPs, including resistant-specific protein (g39185), gag/pol polyprotein (g34458), and aspartic proteinase (g5551), were identified and located on chromosomes 5, 1, and 7, respectively. Both g39185 and g34458 genes encode a protein containing a BURP domain. In previous research on bruchid molecular markers, the g39185 gene located close to the molecular markers of major bruchid-resistant locus may be a bruchid-resistant gene.
Legume research and cultivar development are important for sustainable food production, especially of high-protein seed. Thanks to the development of deep-sequencing technologies, crop species have been taken to the front line, even without completion of their genome sequences. Black-eyed pea (Vigna unguiculata) is a legume species widely grown in semi-arid regions, which has high potential to provide stable seed protein production in a broad range of environments, including drought conditions. The black-eyed pea reference genotype has been used to generate a gene expression atlas of the major plant tissues (i.e. leaf, root, stem, flower, pod and seed), with a developmental time series for pods and seeds. From these various organs, 27 cDNA libraries were generated and sequenced, resulting in more than one billion reads. Following filtering, these reads were de novo assembled into 36 529 transcript sequences that were annotated and quantified across the different tissues. A set of 24 866 unique transcript sequences, called Unigenes, was identified. All the information related to transcript identification, annotation and quantification were stored into a gene expression atlas webserver (http://vugea.noble.org), providing a user-friendly interface and necessary tools to analyse transcript expression in black-eyed pea organs and to compare data with other legume species. Using this gene expression atlas, we inferred details of molecular processes that are active during seed development, and identified key putative regulators of seed maturation. Additionally, we found evidence for conservation of regulatory mechanisms involving miRNA in plant tissues subjected to drought and seeds undergoing desiccation.
Alternative splicing (AS) can produce multiple mature mRNAs from the same primary transcript, thereby generating diverse proteins and phenotypes from the same gene. To assess the prevalence of AS in mungbean (Vigna radiata), we analysed whole-genome RNA sequencing data from root, leaf, flower and pod tissues and found that at least 37.9% of mungbean genes are subjected to AS. The number of AS transcripts exhibited a strong correlation with exon number and thus resembled a uniform probabilistic event rather than a specific regulatory function. The proportion of frameshift splicing was close to the expected frequency of random splicing. However, alternative donor and acceptor AS events tended to occur at multiples of three nucleotides (i.e. the codon length) from the main splice site. Genes with high exon number and expression level, which should have the most AS if splicing is purely stochastic, exhibited less AS, implying the existence of negative selection against excessive random AS. Functional AS is probably rare: a large proportion of AS isoforms exist at very low copy per cell on average or are expressed at much lower levels than default transcripts. Conserved AS was only detected in 629 genes (2.8% of all genes in the genome) when compared to Vigna angularis, and in 16 genes in more distant species like soya bean. These observations highlight the challenges of finding and cataloguing candidates for experimentally proven AS isoforms in a crop genome.
Formate dehydrogenase (FDH) is involved in various higher plant abiotic stress responses. Here, we investigated the role of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) VuFDH in Al and low pH (H(+)) tolerance. Screening of various potential substrates for the VuFDH protein demonstrated that it functions as a formate dehydrogenase. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and histochemical analysis showed that the expression of VuFDH is induced in rice bean root tips by Al or H(+) stresses. Fluorescence microscopic observation of VuFDH-GFP in transgenic Arabidopsis plants indicated that VuFDH is localized in the mitochondria. Accumulation of formate is induced by Al and H(+) stress in rice bean root tips, and exogenous application of formate increases internal formate content that results in the inhibition of root elongation and induction of VuFDH expression, suggesting that formate accumulation is involved in both H(+)- and Al-induced root growth inhibition. Over-expression of VuFDH in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) results in decreased sensitivity to Al and H(+) stress due to less production of formate in the transgenic tobacco lines under Al and H(+) stresses. Moreover, NtMATE and NtALS3 expression showed no changes versus wild type in these over-expression lines, suggesting that herein known Al-resistant mechanisms are not involved. Thus, the increased Al tolerance of VuFDH over-expression lines is likely attributable to their decreased Al-induced formate production. Taken together, our findings advance understanding of higher plant Al toxicity mechanisms, and suggest a possible new route toward the improvement of plant performance in acidic soils, where Al toxicity and H(+) stress coexist.
Vigna mungo (blackgram) is an important leguminous pulse crop, which is grown for its protein rich edible seeds. Drought and salinity are the major abiotic stresses which adversely affect the growth and productivity of crop plants including blackgram. The ALDRXV4 belongs to the aldo-keto reductase superfamily of enzymes that catalyze the reduction of carbonyl metabolites in the cells and plays an important role in the osmoprotection and detoxification of the reactive carbonyl species. In the present study, we developed transgenic plants of V. mungo using Agrobacterium mediated transformation. The transgene integration was confirmed by Southern blot analysis whereas the expression was confirmed by RT-PCR, Western blot and enzyme activity. The T1 generation transgenic plants displayed improved tolerance to various environmental stresses, including drought, salt, methyl viologen and H2O2 induced oxidative stress. The increased aldose reductase activity, higher sorbitol content and less accumulation of the toxic metabolite, methylglyoxal in the transgenic lines under non-stress and stress (drought and salinity) conditions resulted in increased protection through maintenance of better photosynthetic efficiency, higher relative water content and less photooxidative damage. The accumulation of reactive oxygen species was remarkably decreased in the transgenic lines as compared with the wild type plants. This study of engineering multiple stress tolerance in blackgram, is the first report to date and this strategy for trait improvement is proposed to provide a novel germplasm for blackgram production on marginal lands.
Cowpea (V. unguiculata L. Walp.) is an important tropical grain legume. Asparagus bean (V. unguiculata ssp. sesquipedialis) is a distinctive subspecies of cowpea, which is considered one of the top ten Asian vegetables. It can be adapted to a wide range of environmental stimuli such as drought and heat. Nevertheless, it is an extremely cold-sensitive tropical species. Improvement of chilling tolerance in asparagus bean may significantly increase its production and prolong its supply. However, gene regulation and signaling pathways related to cold response in this crop remain unknown. Using Illumina sequencing technology, modification of global gene expression in response to chilling stress in two asparagus bean cultivars-"Dubai bean" and "Ningjiang-3", which are tolerant and sensitive to chilling, respectively-were investigated. More than 1.8 million clean reads were obtained from each sample. After de novo assembly, 88,869 unigenes were finally generated with a mean length of 635 bp. Of these unigenes, 41,925 (47.18%) had functional annotations when aligned to public protein databases. Further, we identified 3,510 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in Dubai bean, including 2,103 up-regulated genes and 1,407 down-regulated genes. While in Ningjiang-3, we found 2,868 DEGs, 1,786 of which were increasing and the others were decreasing. 1,744 DEGs were commonly regulated in two cultivars, suggesting that some genes play fundamental roles in asparagus bean during cold stress. Functional classification of the DEGs in two cultivars using Mercator pipeline indicated that RNA, protein, signaling, stress and hormone metabolism were five major groups. In RNA group, analysis of TFs in DREB subfamily showed that ICE1-CBF3-COR cold responsive cascade may also exist in asparagus bean. Our study is the first to provide the transcriptome sequence resource for asparagus bean, which will accelerate breeding cold resistant asparagus bean varieties through genetic engineering, and advance our knowledge of the genes involved in the complex regulatory networks of this plant under cold stress.
Rice bean (Vigna umbellata (Thunb.) Ohwi & Ohashi) is a warm season annual legume mainly grown in East Asia. Only scarce genomic resources are currently available for this legume crop species and no simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers have been specifically developed for rice bean yet. In this study, approximately 26 million high quality cDNA sequence reads were obtained from rice bean using Illumina paired-end sequencing technology and assembled into 71,929 unigenes with an average length of 986 bp. Of these unigenes, 38,840 (33.2%) showed significant similarity to proteins in the NCBI non-redundant protein and nucleotide sequence databases. Furthermore, 30,170 (76.3%) could be classified into gene ontology categories, 25,451 (64.4%) into Swiss-Prot categories and 21,982 (55.6%) into KOG database categories (E-value < 1.0E-5). A total of 9,301 (23.5%) were mapped onto 118 pathways using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genome (KEGG) pathway database. A total of 3,011 genic SSRs were identified as potential molecular markers. AG/CT (30.3%), AAG/CTT (8.1%) and AGAA/TTCT (20.0%) are the three main repeat motifs. A total of 300 SSR loci were randomly selected for validation by using PCR amplification. Of these loci, 23 primer pairs were polymorphic among 32 rice bean accessions. A UPGMA dendrogram revealed three major clusters among 32 rice bean accessions. The large number of SSR-containing sequences and genic SSRs in this study will be valuable for the construction of high-resolution genetic linkage maps, association or comparative mapping and genetic analyses of various Vigna species.
The researches on the identification of gibberellin receptor are reviewed from the early attempts in 1960s to the identification of GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1) as the receptor in 2005. Unpublished data of the gibberellin-binding protein in the seedlings of adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) are also included, suggesting that the active principle of the gibberellin-binding protein was a GID1 homolog.
Cardiac hypertrophy is a major risk factor for heart failure. Hence, its attenuation represents an important clinical goal. Erk1,2 signalling is pivotal in the cardiac response to stress, suggesting that its inhibition may be a good strategy to revert heart hypertrophy. In this work, we unveiled the events associated with cardiac hypertrophy by means of a transgenic model expressing activated Met receptor. c-Met proto-oncogene encodes for the tyrosine kinase receptor of Hepatocyte growth factor and is a strong inducer of Ras-Raf-Mek-Erk1,2 pathway. We showed that three weeks after the induction of activated Met, the heart presents a remarkable concentric hypertrophy, with no signs of congestive failure and preserved contractility. Cardiac enlargement is accompanied by upregulation of growth-regulating transcription factors, natriuretic peptides, cytoskeletal proteins, and Extracellular Matrix remodelling factors (Timp1 and Pai1). At a later stage, cardiac hypertrophic remodelling results into heart failure with preserved systolic function. Prevention trial by suppressing activated Met showed that cardiac hypertrophy is reversible, and progression to heart failure is prevented. Notably, treatment with Pimasertib, Mek1 inhibitor, attenuates cardiac hypertrophy and remodelling. Our results suggest that modulation of Erk1.2 signalling may constitute a new therapeutic approach for treating cardiac hypertrophies.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata [L.] R. Wilczek) is an important legume crop with high nutritional value in South and Southeast Asia. The crop plant is susceptible to a storage pest caused by bruchids (Callosobruchus spp.). Some wild and cultivated mungbean accessions show resistance to bruchids. Genomic and transcriptomic comparison of bruchid-resistant and -susceptible mungbean could reveal bruchid-resistant genes (Br) for this pest and give insights into the bruchid resistance of mungbean. Flow cytometry showed that the genome size varied by 61 Mb (mega base pairs) among the tested mungbean accessions. Next generation sequencing followed by de novo assembly of the genome of the bruchid-resistant recombinant inbred line 59 (RIL59) revealed more than 42,000 genes. Transcriptomic comparison of bruchid-resistant and -susceptible parental lines and their offspring identified 91 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) classified into 17 major and 74 minor bruchid-resistance-associated genes. We found 408 nucleotide variations (NVs) between bruchid-resistant and -susceptible lines in regions spanning 2 kb (kilo base pairs) of the promoters of 68 DEGs. Furthermore, 282 NVs were identified on exons of 148 sequence-changed-protein genes (SCPs). DEGs and SCPs comprised genes involved in resistant-related, transposable elements (TEs) and conserved metabolic pathways. A large number of these genes were mapped to a region on chromosome 5. Molecular markers designed for variants of putative bruchid-resistance-associated genes were highly diagnostic for the bruchid-resistant genotype. In addition to identifying bruchid-resistance-associated genes, we found that conserved metabolism and TEs may be modifier factors for bruchid resistance of mungbean. The genome sequence of a bruchid-resistant inbred line, candidate genes and sequence variations in promoter regions and exons putatively conditioning resistance as well as markers detecting these variants could be used for development of bruchid-resistant mungbean varieties.
Bambara groundnut (Vigna subterranea (L.) Verdc.) is an African legume and is a promising underutilized crop with good seed nutritional values. Low temperature stress in a number of African countries at night, such as Botswana, can effect the growth and development of bambara groundnut, leading to losses in potential crop yield. Therefore, in this study we developed a computational pipeline to identify and analyze the genes and gene modules associated with low temperature stress responses in bambara groundnut using the cross-species microarray technique (as bambara groundnut has no microarray chip) coupled with network-based analysis. Analyses of the bambara groundnut transcriptome using cross-species gene expression data resulted in the identification of 375 and 659 differentially expressed genes (p<0.01) under the sub-optimal (23°C) and very sub-optimal (18°C) temperatures, respectively, of which 110 genes are commonly shared between the two stress conditions. The construction of a Highest Reciprocal Rank-based gene co-expression network, followed by its partition using a Heuristic Cluster Chiseling Algorithm resulted in 6 and 7 gene modules in sub-optimal and very sub-optimal temperature stresses being identified, respectively. Modules of sub-optimal temperature stress are principally enriched with carbohydrate and lipid metabolic processes, while most of the modules of very sub-optimal temperature stress are significantly enriched with responses to stimuli and various metabolic processes. Several transcription factors (from MYB, NAC, WRKY, WHIRLY & GATA classes) that may regulate the downstream genes involved in response to stimulus in order for the plant to withstand very sub-optimal temperature stress were highlighted. The identified gene modules could be useful in breeding for low-temperature stress tolerant bambara groundnut varieties.
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) is commonly grown in Asia as an important nutritional dry grain legume, as it can survive better in arid conditions than other crops. Abiotic stresses, such as drought and high-salt contents, negatively impact its growth and production. The dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2 (DREB2) transcription factors play a significant role in the response to these stress stimuli via transcriptional regulation of downstream genes containing the cis-element dehydration-responsive element (DRE). However, the molecular mechanisms involved in the drought tolerance of this species remain elusive, with very few reported candidate genes. No DREB2 ortholog has been reported for mung bean, and the function of mung bean DREB2 is not clear. In this study, a novel VrDREB2A gene with conserved AP2 domains and transactivation ability was isolated from mung bean. A modified VrDREB2A protein lacking the putative negative regulatory domain encoded by nucleotides 394-543 was shown to be localized in the nucleus. Expression of the VrDREB2A gene was induced by drought, high salt concentrations and abscisic acid treatment. Furthermore, comparing with the wild type Arabidopsis, the overexpression of VrDREB2A activated the expression of downstream genes in transgenic Arabidopsis, resulting in enhanced tolerance to drought and high-salt stresses and no growth retardation. The results from this study indicate that VrDREB2A functions as an important transcriptional activator and may help increase the abiotic stress tolerance of the mung bean plant.
Asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis) is the Asian subspecies of cowpea, a drought-resistant legume crop native to Africa. In order to explore the genetic variation of drought responses in asparagus bean, we conducted multi-year phenotyping of drought resistance traits across the Chinese asparagus bean mini-core. The phenotypic distribution indicated that the ssp. sesquipedalis subgene pool has maintained high natural variation in drought responses despite known domestic bottleneck. Thirty-nine SNP loci were found to show an association with drought resistance via a genome-wide association study (GWAS). Whole-plant water relations were compared among four genotypes by lysimetric assay. Apparent genotypic differences in transpiration patterns and the critical soil water threshold in relation to dehydration avoidance were observed, indicating a delicate adaptive mechanism for each genotype to its own climate. Microarray gene expression analyses revealed that known drought resistance pathways such as the ABA and phosphate lipid signaling pathways are conserved between different genotypes, while differential regulation of certain aquaporin genes and hormonal genes may be important for the genotypic differences. Our results suggest that divergent sensitivity to soil water content is an important mechanism configuring the genotypic specific responses to water deficit. The SNP markers identified provide useful resources for marker-assisted breeding.
Sinorhizobium (Ensifer) fredii HH103 is a broad host-range nitrogen-fixing bacterium able to nodulate many legumes, including soybean. In several rhizobia, root nodulation is influenced by proteins secreted through the type 3 secretion system (T3SS). This specialized secretion apparatus is a common virulence mechanism of many plant and animal pathogenic bacteria that delivers proteins, called effectors, directly into the eukaryotic host cells where they interfere with signal transduction pathways and promote infection by suppressing host defenses. In rhizobia, secreted proteins, called nodulation outer proteins (Nops), are involved in host-range determination and symbiotic efficiency. S. fredii HH103 secretes at least eight Nops through the T3SS. Interestingly, there are Rhizobium-specific Nops, such as NopC, which do not have homologues in pathogenic bacteria. In this work we studied the S. fredii HH103 nopC gene and confirmed that its expression was regulated in a flavonoid-, NodD1- and TtsI-dependent manner. Besides, in vivo bioluminescent studies indicated that the S. fredii HH103 T3SS was expressed in young soybean nodules and adenylate cyclase assays confirmed that NopC was delivered directly into soybean root cells by means of the T3SS machinery. Finally, nodulation assays showed that NopC exerted a positive effect on symbiosis with Glycine max cv. Williams 82 and Vigna unguiculata. All these results indicate that NopC can be considered a Rhizobium-specific effector secreted by S. fredii HH103.
Obesity is often considered to result from either excessive food intake or insufficient physical activity. Adzuki beans have been evaluated as potential remedies for various health conditions, and recent studies have reported their effects on the regulation of lipid metabolism, but it remains to be determined whether they may be effective in overcoming obesity by regulating appetite and satiety. This study investigated the effect of black adzuki bean (BAB) extract on body composition and hypothalamic neuropeptide expression in Sprague Dawley rats (Rattus norvegicus) fed a high-fat diet. The rats were fed for 8 weeks with a control diet containing 10 kcal% from fat (CD), a high-fat diet containing 60 kcal% from fat (HD), or a high-fat diet with 1% or 2% freeze-dried ethanolic extract powder of BAB (BAB-1 and BAB-2). The body weights and epididymal fat weights were significantly reduced and the serum lipid profiles were improved in the group fed the diet containing BAB compared to the HD group. The expression of AGRP mRNA significantly decreased in the BAB groups, and treatment with BAB-2 resulted in a marked induction of the mRNA expression of POMC and CART, which are anorexigenic neuropeptides that suppress food intake. Furthermore, mRNA expression levels of ObRb, a gene related to leptin sensitivity in the hypothalamus, were significantly higher in the BAB groups than in the HD group. These results suggest that supplementation with BAB has a significant effect on body weight via regulation of hypothalamic neuropeptides.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis), an important legume crop, is grown in more than 30 countries of the world. The seed of adzuki bean, as an important source of starch, digestible protein, mineral elements, and vitamins, is widely used foods for at least a billion people. Here, we generated a high-quality draft genome sequence of adzuki bean by whole-genome shotgun sequencing. The assembled contig sequences reached to 450 Mb (83% of the genome) with an N50 of 38 kb, and the total scaffold sequences were 466.7 Mb with an N50 of 1.29 Mb. Of them, 372.9 Mb of scaffold sequences were assigned to the 11 chromosomes of adzuki bean by using a single nucleotide polymorphism genetic map. A total of 34,183 protein-coding genes were predicted. Functional analysis revealed that significant differences in starch and fat content between adzuki bean and soybean were likely due to transcriptional abundance, rather than copy number variations, of the genes related to starch and oil synthesis. We detected strong selection signals in domestication by the population analysis of 50 accessions including 11 wild, 11 semiwild, 17 landraces, and 11 improved varieties. In addition, the semiwild accessions were illuminated to have a closer relationship to the cultigen accessions than the wild type, suggesting that the semiwild adzuki bean might be a preliminary landrace and play some roles in the adzuki bean domestication. The genome sequence of adzuki bean will facilitate the identification of agronomically important genes and accelerate the improvement of adzuki bean.
Plant-fungus interactions usually generate H(2)O(2) in the infected plant tissue. H(2)O(2) has a direct antimicrobial effect and is involved in the cross-linking of cell walls, signaling, induction of gene expression, hypersensitive cell death and induced systemic acquired resistance. This has raised the hypothesis that H(2)O(2) manipulation by pharmacological compounds could alter the lifestyle of Colletotrichum gloeosporioides during interaction with the BR-3-Tracuateua cowpea genotype. The primary leaves of cowpea were excised, infiltrated with salicylic acid (SA), glucose oxidase + glucose (GO/G), catalase (CAT) or diphenyliodonium chloride (DPI), followed by spore inoculation on the adaxial leaf surface. SA or GO/G-treated plantlets showed increased H(2)O(2) accumulation and lipid peroxidation. The fungus used a subcuticular, intramural necrotrophic strategy, and developed secondary hyphae associated with the quick spread and rapid killing of host cells. However, CAT or DPI-treated leaves exhibited decreased H(2)O(2) concentration and lipid peroxidation and the fungus developed intracellular hemibiotrophic infection with vesicles, in addition to primary and secondary hyphal formation. These results suggest that H(2)O(2) plays an important role in the cowpea (C. gloeosporioides) pathosystem given that it affected fungal lifestyle during interaction.
The activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) has a beneficial effect on hyperglycaemia. The aim of this study was to examine whether an azuki bean (Vigna angularis) extract (ABE) stimulates the AMPK or insulin signalling pathways in a liver cell line in response to hyperglycaemia, as well as in a diabetic rat liver. HepG2 cells were incubated with 5 or 20 mmol L(-1) glucose and then treated with ABE. Streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats received 0, 10, or 40 mg kg(-1) ABE orally. Blood chemistry and phosphorylation of AMPK and Akt (a serine/threonine kinase) in the livers were examined. There was a significant increase in the levels of AMPK and Akt phosphorylation in ABE-treated HepG2 cells. AMPK phosphorylation increased significantly in glucose-stimulated HepG2 cells that were treated with ABE. In the 40 mg kg(-1) ABE-treated diabetic rats, the glucose levels were lower than in the control. Phosphorylation of AMPK in ABE-untreated diabetic rat livers decreased significantly. Conversely, ABE treatment increased the phosphorylation of AMPK and Akt in the diabetic rat liver. ABE treatment upregulated AMPK phosphorylation in HepG2 cells, and upregulated AMPK and Akt phosphorylation in the diabetic rat liver. These data suggest that ABE can potentially improve glucose intolerance.
Phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) is a major phospholipid in eukaryotic cells. Many studies have revealed that the phosphoinositide (PI) signaling pathway plays an important role in plant growth and development. Phospholipase C (PLC) is reported to have a crucial role in the PI pathway. This work focuses on the isolation and investigation of PLC in response to abiotic stress factors in green gram. The PLC cDNA, designated VrPLC, encoding a protein of 591 amino acids was cloned and expressed in E. coli. The predicted isoelectric point (pI) and molecular weight were 5.96 and 67.3 kDa, respectively. The tertiary structure of the PLC was also predicted and found to be mainly composed of random coils. In addition, VrPLC expression analysis was performed under environmental stress and the results showed that the expression of VrPLC was rapidly induced in an abscisic acid independent manner in response to drought and salt stress. PLC expression was found to be up-regulated by SA and down-regulated by wound in leaf tissues; however, there was no significant difference in the expression of PLC in plants subjected to high temperature and H2O2. Our results suggest that a close link/relationship between PLC expression and stress responses in green gram.
The adzuki bean (Vigna angularis (Ohwi) Ohwi and Ohashi) is an important grain legume of Asia. It is cultivated mainly in China, Japan and Korea. Despite its importance, few genomic resources are available for molecular genetic research of adzuki bean. In this study, we developed EST-SSR markers for the adzuki bean through next-generation sequencing. More than 112 million high-quality cDNA sequence reads were obtained from adzuki bean using Illumina paired-end sequencing technology, and the sequences were de novo assembled into 65,950 unigenes. The average length of the unigenes was 1,213 bp. Among the unigenes, 14,547 sequences contained a unique simple sequence repeat (SSR) and 3,350 sequences contained more than one SSR. A total of 7,947 EST-SSRs were identified as potential molecular markers, with mono-nucleotide A/T repeats (99.0%) as the most abundant motif class, followed by AG/CT (68.4%), AAG/CTT (30.0%), AAAG/CTTT (26.2%), AAAAG/CTTTT (16.1%), and AACGGG/CCCGTT (6.0%). A total of 500 SSR markers were randomly selected for validation, of which 296 markers produced reproducible amplicons with 38 polymorphic markers among the 32 adzuki bean genotypes selected from diverse geographical locations across China. The large number of SSR-containing sequences and EST-SSR markers will be valuable for genetic analysis of the adzuki bean and related Vigna species.
An awesome number of experimental and clinical evidences indicate that constitutive activation of the Met oncogenic receptor plays a critical role in the progression of cancer toward metastasis and/or resistance to targeted therapies. While mutations are rare, the common mechanism of Met activation is overexpression, either by gene amplification ('addiction') or transcriptional activation ('expedience'). In the first instance ligand-independent kinase activation plays a major role in sustaining the transformed phenotype. Anti-Met antibodies directed against the receptor binding site behave essentially as ligand (Hepatocyte Growth Factor, HGF) antagonists and are ineffective to counteract ligand-independent activation. The monovalent chimeric MvDN30 antibody fragment, PEGylated to extend its half-life, binds the fourth IPT domain and induces 'shedding' of the Met extracellular domain, dramatically reducing both the number of receptors on the surface and their phosphorylation. Downstream signaling is thus inhibited, both in the absence or in the presence of the ligand. In vitro, MvDN30 is a strong inhibitor not only of ligand-dependent invasive growth, sustained by both paracrine and autocrine HGF, but notably, also of ligand-independent growth of 'Met-addicted' cells. In immunocompromised mice, lacking expression of Hepatocyte Growth Factor cross-reacting with the human receptor - thus providing, by definition, a model of 'ligand-independent' Met activation - PEGylated MvDN30 impairs growth of Met 'addicted' human gastric carcinoma cells. In a Met-amplified patient-derived colo-rectal tumor (xenopatient) MvDN30-PEG overcomes the resistance to EGFR targeted therapy (Cetuximab). The PEGylated MvDN30 is thus a strong candidate for targeting tumors sustained by ligand-independent Met oncogenic activation.
We performed deep sequencing of the nuclear and organellar genomes of three mungbean genotypes: Vigna radiata ssp. sublobata TC1966, V. radiata var. radiata NM92 and the recombinant inbred line RIL59 derived from a cross between TC1966 and NM92. Moreover, we performed deep sequencing of the RIL59 transcriptome to investigate transcript variability. The mungbean chloroplast genome has a quadripartite structure including a pair of inverted repeats separated by two single copy regions. A total of 213 simple sequence repeats were identified in the chloroplast genomes of NM92 and RIL59; 78 single nucleotide variants and nine indels were discovered in comparing the chloroplast genomes of TC1966 and NM92. Analysis of the mungbean chloroplast transcriptome revealed mRNAs that were affected by transcriptional slippage and RNA editing. Transcriptional slippage frequency was positively correlated with the length of simple sequence repeats of the mungbean chloroplast genome (R2=0.9911). In total, 41 C-to-U editing sites were found in 23 chloroplast genes and in one intergenic spacer. No editing site that swapped U to C was found. A combination of bioinformatics and experimental methods revealed that the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase-transcribed genes psbF and ndhA are affected by transcriptional slippage in mungbean and in main lineages of land plants, including three dicots (Glycine max, Brassica rapa, and Nicotiana tabacum), two monocots (Oryza sativa and Zea mays), two gymnosperms (Pinus taeda and Ginkgo biloba) and one moss (Physcomitrella patens). Transcript analysis of the rps2 gene showed that transcriptional slippage could affect transcripts at single sequence repeat regions with poly-A runs. It showed that transcriptional slippage together with incomplete RNA editing may cause sequence diversity of transcripts in chloroplasts of land plants.
Black gram [V. mungo (L.) Hepper] is an important legume crop extensively grown in south and south-east Asia, where it is a major source of dietary protein for its predominantly vegetarian population. However, lack of genomic information and markers has become a limitation for genetic improvement of this crop. Here, we report the transcriptome sequencing of the immature seeds of black gram cv. TU94-2, by Illumina paired end sequencing technology to generate transcriptome sequences for gene discovery and genic-SSR marker development. A total of 17.2 million paired-end reads were generated and 48,291 transcript contigs (TCS) were assembled with an average length of 443 bp. Based on sequence similarity search, 33,766 TCS showed significant similarity to known proteins. Among these, only 29,564 TCS were annotated with gene ontology (GO) functional categories. A total number of 138 unique KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) pathways were identified, of which majority of TCS are grouped into purine metabolism (678) followed by pyrimidine metabolism (263). A total of 48,291 TCS were searched for SSRs and 1,840 SSRs were identified in 1,572 TCS with an average frequency of one SSR per 11.9 kb. The tri-nucleotide repeats were most abundant (35%) followed by di-nucleotide repeats (32%). PCR primer pairs were successfully designed for 933 SSR loci. Sequences analyses indicate that about 64.4% and 35.6% of the SSR motifs were present in the coding sequences (CDS) and untranslated regions (UTRs) respectively. Tri-nucleotide repeats (57.3%) were preferentially present in the CDS. The rate of successful amplification and polymorphism were investigated using selected primers among 18 black gram accessions. Genic-SSR markers developed from the Illumina paired end sequencing of black gram immature seed transcriptome will provide a valuable resource for genetic diversity, evolution, linkage mapping, comparative genomics and marker-assisted selection in black gram.
ZAP-70 is a marker of clinical outcome in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), however its assessment suffers from a lack of standardization consensus. To identify novel markers able to surrogate IGHV mutational status, CD19(+)CD5(+)-B-lymphocytes from 216 patients enrolled in a prospective study (ClinicalTrial.gov Identifier:NCT00917540), underwent gene expression profiling. Samples were split into CLL-Training (n=102) and CLL-Validation (n=114) sets, and an independent supervised analysis for IGHV mutational status was performed considering all genes with gene expression equal or above that of ZAP-70. Thirty-one genes (23 up- and 8 down-regulated) and 23 genes (18 up- and 5 down-regulated) satisfied these criteria in the CLL-Training and CLL-Validation sets, respectively, and 20 common genes (15 up and 5 down) were found to be differentially regulated in both sets. Two (SNORA70F, NRIP1) of the down-regulated and 6 (SEPT10, ZNF667, TGFBR3, MBOAT1, LPL, CRY1) of the up-regulated genes were significantly associated with a reduced risk of disease progression in both sets. Forcing the afore-mentioned genes in a Cox multivariate model together with IGHV mutational status, only CRY1 (HR=2.3, 95% CI: 1.1-4.9, P=.027) and MBOAT1 (HR=2.1, 95% CI: 1.1-3.7, P=.018) retained their independent prognostic impact, supporting the hypothesis that these genes may potentially act as surrogates for predicting IGHV mutational status.
The rice bean (Vigna umbellata) root apex specifically secretes citrate through expression activation of Vigna umbellata Multidrug and Toxic Compound Extrusion 1 (VuMATE1) under aluminum (Al(3+) ) stress. However, the underlying mechanisms regulating VuMATE1 expression remain unknown. We isolated and characterized a gene encoding Sensitive to Proton Rhizotoxicity1 (STOP1)-like protein, VuSTOP1, from rice bean. The role of VuSTOP1 in regulating VuMATE1 expression was investigated using the yeast one-hybrid assay. We characterized the function of VuSTOP1 in Al(3) (+) - and H(+) -tolerance using in planta complementation assays. We demonstrated that VuSTOP1 has transactivation potential. We found that VuSTOP1 expression is inducible by Al(3+) and H(+) stress. However, although VuSTOP1 binds to the promoter of VuMATE1, the inconsistent tissue localization patterns of VuSTOP1 and VuMATE1 preclude VuSTOP1 as the major factor regulating VuMATE1 expression. In addition, when a protein translation inhibitor increased expression of VuSTOP1, VuMATE1 expression was inhibited. In planta complementation assay demonstrated that VuSTOP1 could fully restore expression of genes involved in H(+) tolerance, but could only partially restore expression of AtMATE. We conclude that VuSTOP1 plays a major role in H(+) tolerance, but only a minor role in Al(3+) tolerance. The differential transcriptional regulation of VuSTOP1 and VuMATE1 reveals a complex regulatory system controlling VuMATE1 expression.
Mung bean is an important legume crop in tropical and subtropical countries of Asia and has high nutritional and economic value. However the genetic diversity of mung bean is poorly characterized. In this study, our goal was to develop and use microsatellite simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers for germplasm evaluation. In total, 500 novel expression sequence tag EST-based SSRs (eSSRs) and genomic SSRs (gSSRs) were developed from mung bean transcriptome and genome sequences. Of these, only 58 were useful for diversity evaluation in a panel of 157 cultivated and wild mung bean accessions from different collection sites in East Asia. A total of 2.66 alleles were detected on average per locus which shows that polymorphism is generally low for the species. The average polymorphic information content (PIC) of gSSRs was higher than eSSRs and most of the polymorphic gSSRs were composed of di- and tri-nucleotide repeats (52.4% and 38.1% of all loci, respectively). The genotypes were differentiated into nine subgroups by cluster analysis, and the wild mung bean accessions separated well from the cultivated accessions. Analysis of molecular variance indicated that 22% of variance was observed among populations and 78% was due to differences within populations. Clustering, population structure analyses showed that non-Chinese cultivated and wild mung bean accessions were separated from Chinese accessions, but no geographical distinctions existed between genotypes collected in China. Interestingly, the average PIC value of cultivated mung bean (0.36) was higher than that of wild mung bean (0.25) showing that further collecting and wide crosses are necessary for mung bean improvement.
Mung bean (Vigna radiate (L.) Wilczek) is an important traditional food legume crop, with high economic and nutritional value. It is widely grown in China and other Asian countries. Despite its importance, genomic information is currently unavailable for this crop plant species or some of its close relatives in the Vigna genus. In this study, more than 103 million high quality cDNA sequence reads were obtained from mung bean using Illumina paired-end sequencing technology. The processed reads were assembled into 48,693 unigenes with an average length of 874 bp. Of these unigenes, 25,820 (53.0%) and 23,235 (47.7%) showed significant similarity to proteins in the NCBI non-redundant protein and nucleotide sequence databases, respectively. Furthermore, 19,242 (39.5%) could be classified into gene ontology categories, 18,316 (37.6%) into Swiss-Prot categories and 10,918 (22.4%) into KOG database categories (E-value < 1.0E-5). A total of 6,585 (8.3%) were mapped onto 244 pathways using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genome (KEGG) pathway database. Among the unigenes, 10,053 sequences contained a unique simple sequence repeat (SSR), and 2,303 sequences contained more than one SSR together in the same expressed sequence tag (EST). A total of 13,134 EST-SSRs were identified as potential molecular markers, with mono-nucleotide A/T repeats being the most abundant motif class and G/C repeats being rare. In this SSR analysis, we found five main repeat motifs: AG/CT (30.8%), GAA/TTC (12.6%), AAAT/ATTT (6.8%), AAAAT/ATTTT (6.2%) and AAAAAT/ATTTTT (1.9%). A total of 200 SSR loci were randomly selected for validation by PCR amplification as EST-SSR markers. Of these, 66 marker primer pairs produced reproducible amplicons that were polymorphic among 31 mung bean accessions selected from diverse geographical locations. The large number of SSR-containing sequences found in this study will be valuable for the construction of a high-resolution genetic linkage maps, association or comparative mapping and genetic analyses of various Vigna species.
Intensive agriculture has resulted in an indiscriminate use of pesticides, which demands in-depth analysis of their impact on indigenous rhizospheric microbial community structure and function. Hence, the objective of the present work was to study the impact of two chemical pesticides (chlorpyrifos and cypermethrin) and one biological pesticide (azadirachtin) at two dosages on the microbial community structure using cultivation-dependent approach and on rhizospheric bacterial communities involved in nitrogen cycle in Vigna radiata rhizosphere through cultivation-independent technique of real-time PCR. Cultivation-dependent study highlighted the adverse effects of both chemical pesticide and biopesticide on rhizospheric bacterial and fungal communities at different plant growth stages. Also, an adverse effect on number of genes and transcripts of nifH (nitrogen fixation); amoA (nitrification); and narG, nirK, and nirS (denitrification) was observed. The results from the present study highlighted two points, firstly that nontarget effects of pesticides are significantly detrimental to soil microflora, and despite being of biological origin, azadirachtin exerted negative impact on rhizospheric microbial community of V. radiata behaving similar to chemical pesticides. Hence, such nontarget effects of chemical pesticide and biopesticide in plants' rhizosphere, which bring out the larger picture in terms of their ecotoxicological effect, demand a proper risk assessment before application of pesticides as agricultural amendments.
Using an F2 population derived from cultivated and wild azuki bean, we previously detected a reciprocal translocation and a seed size QTL near the translocation site. To test the hypothesis that the translocation in the cultivated variety contributed to the larger seed size, we performed further linkage analyses with several cross combinations between cultivated and wild azuki beans. In addition, we visually confirmed the translocation by cytogenetic approach using 25 wild and cultivated accessions. As a result, we found the translocation-type chromosomes in none of the cultivated accessions, but in a number of the wild accessions. Interestingly, all the wild accessions with the translocation were originally collected from East Japan, while all the accessions with normal chromosomes were from West Japan or the Sea of Japan-side region. Such biased geographical distribution could be explained by the glacial refugium hypothesis, and supported narrowing down the domestication origin of cultivated azuki bean.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important legume species well adapted to low fertility soils and prolonged drought periods. One of the main problems that cause severe yield losses in cowpea is the root-knot nematode Meloidogyne incognita. The aim of this work was to analyze the differential expression of proteins in the contrasting cultivars of cowpea CE 31 (highly resistant) and CE 109 (slightly resistant) during early stages of M. incognita infection. Cowpea roots were collected at 3, 6, and 9 days after inoculation and used for protein extraction and 2-DE analysis. From a total of 59 differential spots, 37 proteins were identified, mostly involved in plant defense, such as spermidine synthase, patatin, proteasome component, and nitrile-specifier protein. A follow-up study was performed by quantitative RT-PCR analysis of nine selected proteins and the results revealed a very similar upregulation trend between the protein expression profiles and the corresponding transcripts. This study also identified ACT and GAPDH as a good combination of reference genes for quantitative RT-PCR analysis of the pathosystem cowpea/nematode. Additionally, an interactome analysis showed three major pathways affected by nematode infection: proteasome endopeptidase complex, oxidative phosphorylation, and flavonoid biosynthesis. Taken together, the results obtained by proteome, transcriptome, and interactome approaches suggest that oxidative stress, ubiquitination, and glucosinolate degradation may be part of cowpea CE 31 resistance mechanisms in response to nematode infection.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis var. angularis) is a dietary legume crop in East Asia. The presumed progenitor (Vigna angularis var. nipponensis) is widely found in East Asia, suggesting speciation and domestication in these temperate climate regions. Here, we report a draft genome sequence of adzuki bean. The genome assembly covers 75% of the estimated genome and was mapped to 11 pseudo-chromosomes. Gene prediction revealed 26,857 high confidence protein-coding genes evidenced by RNAseq of different tissues. Comparative gene expression analysis with V. radiata showed that the tissue specificity of orthologous genes was highly conserved. Additional re-sequencing of wild adzuki bean, V. angularis var. nipponensis, and V. nepalensis, was performed to analyze the variations between cultivated and wild adzuki bean. The determined divergence time of adzuki bean and the wild species predated archaeology-based domestication time. The present genome assembly will accelerate the genomics-assisted breeding of adzuki bean.
Antioxidative compounds were quantified from the leaves of nine black gram (Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper) genotypes over a period of two years, for potential whitefly, Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius) (Hemiptera: Aleryrodidae) resistance. Oviposition preference, nymphal and adult development were evaluated under screen-house conditions. Biochemical analysis revealed that higher per cent increase in the total phenol and o-dihydroxy phenol contents both at 30 and 50 days after sowing was evident in moderately resistant genotypes NDU 5-7 (49.6 and 50.8%, respectively) and KU 99-20 (47.8 and 50.8%, respectively) under whitefly stress conditions as compared to non-stressed plants. Tannin and flavonol contents in leaves increased to varying degrees (up to 11.1 and 7.1%, respectively) in resistant plants after whitefly infestation, indicating that the changes in tannin and flavonol contents were closely associated with the resistance to whitefly. Correlation studies relating leaf content of black gram antioxidative compounds from different genotypes with whitefly population were also worked out. Total phenols (r = -0.71 & -0.88), o- dihydroxy phenols (r = -0.56 & -0.76), flavonols (r = -0.80 & -0.81) and tannins (r= -0.16 & -0.26) showed significant negative correlation with whitefly population (nymphs and adults) suggesting that enhanced level of these biochemicals may contribute to bioprotection of black gram plants against B. tabaci infestation. Comparatively higher level of resistance in genotype NDU 5-7 and KU 99-20 can serve as base for genetic improvement of black gram, focusing on the development of resistant varieties to B. tabaci.
Eureka lemon (Citrus limon) is an economically important crop in China. In 2009, a new disease was observed on Eureka lemon in an orchard of Ruili city in Yunnan Province. Nearly 10% of the plants were symptomatic with yellow vein clearing on lateral veins, combined with leaf crinkling and warping of young leaves. Water-soaked appearances were also seen on the adaxial leaf veins. The symptoms were present on mature leaves, resulting in almost 20% yield reduction. The symptoms on leaves were more severe in spring and autumn than in summer. This disease was transmitted by grafting from infected Eureka lemon to six lemon (C. limon) varieties (Femminello, Fino, Villafranca, Verna, Kutdiken, and Monachello) and two sour orange (C. aurantium) varieties (Daidai, Morocco), with inoculated plants showing similar symptoms. Variable symptoms were observed on other hosts, including severe yellowing and vein clearing on Dweet tangor (C. reticulata × C. sinensis), slight vein clearing on Tongshui 72-1 sweet orange (C. sinensis) and Marsh grapefruit (C. paradisi), but no symptoms were observed on Etrog citron (C. medica), Mexican lime (C. aurantifolia), or Ponkan (C. reticulata). When infected branches from Etrog citron, Mexican lime, and Ponkan were grafted onto healthy Morocco sour orange, typical yellowing and vein clearing symptoms were observed. In the mechanical transmission trials using eight herbaceous plant species, leaf rolling, shrinking, and pointed necrosis were observed on Vigna unguiculata, slight leaf rolling symptoms were observed on Capsicum frutescens, whereas Lycopersicum esculenum, Nicotiana benthamiana, Momordica charantia, Solanum melongena, Cucumis sativus, and Sesamum indicum remained symptomless. Symptom expression was influenced by temperature, being visible between 18 and 24°C but disappearing over 32°C. Crude extracts from young symptomatic lemon leaves were negatively stained for transmission electron microscopy observation (1) and showed filamentous virus particles of 13 to 15 × 400 to 1,000 nm. The described combination of symptoms in citrus species and herbaceous indicators, and virus morphology revealed by electron microscopy, suggested presence of Citrus yellow vein clearing virus (CYVCV). RNA extractions were made from 52 samples of Eureka lemon with yellow vein clearing symptoms. A one-step RT-PCR using primer pair (sense: 5'-TACCGCAGCTATCCATTTCC-3' and antisense: 5'-GCAGAAATCCCGAACCACTA-3'), designed from coat protein gene of CYVCV genome (GenBank Accession No. JX040635) (1), was performed. All of the symptomatic samples yielded the expected cDNA fragment and no amplicon was obtained from healthy plants. Three PCR amplicons were selected for cloning and sequencing. BLAST analysis showed that these nucleotide sequences (KJ859679 to 81) had greater than 97% nucleotide identity with the corresponding region of CYVCV reference genome (2), and therefore, this disease was associated with CYVCV. Symptoms resembling CYVCV infection were observed in China before (3); however, to our knowledge, this is the first proven report of CYVCV present in China. The identification of the pathogen now allows for appropriate field management and control measures. References: (1) V. Grimaldi et al. 13th IOCV Conference, 343-345, 1996. (2) G. Loconsole et al. Phytopathology 102:1168, 2012. (3) C. Zhou et al. 18th IOCV Conference, 44, 2010.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata) is a fast-growing, warm-season legume crop that is primarily cultivated in developing countries of Asia. Here we construct a draft genome sequence of mungbean to facilitate genome research into the subgenus Ceratotropis, which includes several important dietary legumes in Asia, and to enable a better understanding of the evolution of leguminous species. Based on the de novo assembly of additional wild mungbean species, the divergence of what was eventually domesticated and the sampled wild mungbean species appears to have predated domestication. Moreover, the de novo assembly of a tetraploid Vigna species (V. reflexo-pilosa var. glabra) provides genomic evidence of a recent allopolyploid event. The species tree is constructed using de novo RNA-seq assemblies of 22 accessions of 18 Vigna species and protein sets of Glycine max. The present assembly of V. radiata var. radiata will facilitate genome research and accelerate molecular breeding of the subgenus Ceratotropis.
Plant vacuolar NHX exchangers play a significant role in adaption to salt stress by compartmentalizing excess cytosolic Na+ into vacuoles and maintaining cellular homeostasis and ionic equilibrium. We cloned an orthologue of the vacuolar Na+/H+ antiporter gene, VrNHX1 from mungbean (Vigna radiata), an important Asiatic grain legume. The VrNHX1 (Genbank Accession number JN656211.1) contains 2095 nucleotides with an open reading frame of 1629 nucleotides encoding a predicted protein of 542 amino acids with a deduced molecular mass of 59.6 kDa. The consensus amiloride binding motif (84LFFIYLLPPI93) was observed in the third putative transmembrane domain of VrNHX1. Bioinformatic and phylogenetic analysis clearly suggested that VrNHX1 had high similarity to those of orthologs belonging to Class-I clade of plant NHX exchangers in leguminous crops. VrNHX1 could be strongly induced by salt stress in mungbean as the expression in roots significantly increased in presence of 200 mM NaCl with concomitant accumulation of total [Na+]. Induction of VrNHX1 was also observed under cold and dehydration stress, indicating a possible cross talk between various abiotic stresses. Heterologous expression in salt sensitive yeast mutant AXT3 complemented for the loss of yeast vacuolar NHX1 under NaCl, KCl and LiCl stress indicating that VrNHX1 was the orthologue of ScNHX1. Further, AXT3 cells expressing VrNHX1 survived under low pH environment and displayed vacuolar alkalinization analyzed using pH sensitive fluorescent dye BCECF-AM. The constitutive and stress inducible expression of VrNHX1 resulted in enhanced salt tolerance in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana lines. Our work suggested that VrNHX1 was a salt tolerance determinant in mungbean.
The researches on D-hydantoinase activity and substrate specificity towards dihydropyrimidine and hydantoin derivatives have been carried out intensively over the last few decades. So far, the major efforts have focused on (R,S)-5-phenylhydantoin and (R,S)-5-(4-hydroxyphenyl)hydantoin, the most desirable D-hydantoinase substrates from pharmaceutical industry point of view. However, it was shown that D-hydantoinase is a substrate-dependent enzyme, and its activity and stereoselectivity towards 5-monosubstituted hydantoins varied significantly with the type of substrate and the source of the enzyme. The aim of this study was to estimate the substrate specificity of D-hydantoinase towards series of 5-benzylhydantoin derivatives with halogen and methyl substituents in the phenyl ring. The biotransformations were carried out by using commercial enzyme: immobilized, recombinant, cloned, and expressed in Escherichia coli D-hydantoinase from Vigna angularis (rD-HYD). All reactions were monitored by capillary electrophoresis (CE), and the conversion yields were calculated. Additionally, enantiomeric ratios of the obtained D-phenylalanine derivatives were estimated by chiral high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Interestingly, the differences in the activities of examined enzyme towards particular 5-benzylhydantoin derivatives were observed. CE was also shown as a promising method for monitoring the hydrolysis of new substrates by D-hydantoinase and further analyzing of enzyme substrate specificity.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important grain legume cultivated in drought-prone parts of the world, having higher tolerance to heat and drought than many other crops. The transcription factor, Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding protein 2A (DREB2A), controls expression of many genes involved in osmotic and heat stress responses of plants. In Arabidopsis, DREB2A-interacting proteins (DRIPs), which function as E3 ubiquitin ligases (EC 6.3.2.19), regulate the stability of DREB2A by targeting it for proteasome-mediated degradation. In this study, we cloned the cowpea ortholog of DRIP (VuDRIP) using PCR based methods. The 1614 bp long VuDRIP mRNA encoded a protein of 433 amino acids having a C3HC4-type Really Interesting New Gene (RING) domain in the N-terminus and a C-terminal conserved region, similar to Arabidopsis DRIP1 and DRIP2. We found VuDRIP up-regulation in response to various abiotic stresses and phytohormones. Using yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisae) two-hybrid analysis, VuDRIP was identified as a VuDREB2A-interacting protein. The results indicate negative regulation of VuDREB2A by ubiquitin ligases in cowpea similar to Arabidopsis along with their other unknown roles in stress and hormone signaling pathways.
A Vigna nakashimae (VN) extract has been shown to have antidiabetic and anti-obesity effects. However, the mechanism underlying the effect of a VN extract on hepatic inflammation and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated how a VN extract protects against the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). A VN extract for 12 weeks reduced the body weight, serum metabolic parameters, cytokines, and hepatic steatosis in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice. A VN extract decreased HFD-induced hepatic acetyl CoA carboxylase and glucose transporter 4 expressions. In addition to the levels of high-mobility group box 1 and receptor for advanced glycation, the hepatic expression of ATF4 and caspase-3 was also reduced by a VN extract. Thus, these data indicate that a chronic VN extract prevented NAFLD through multiple mechanisms, including inflammation, ER stress, and apoptosis in the liver.
VuDREB2A exists in cowpea as a canonical DREB2-type transcription factor, having the ability to bind dehydration-responsive elements in vitro and confer enhanced drought resistance in transgenic Arabidopsis. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important cultivated legume that can survive better in arid conditions than other crops. But the molecular mechanisms involved in the drought tolerance of this species remain elusive with very few reported candidate genes. The Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding Protein2 (DREB2) group of transcription factors plays key roles in plant responses to drought. However, no DREB2 ortholog has been reported from cowpea so far. In this study, we isolated and characterized a gene from cowpea, namely VuDREB2A, encoding a protein of 377 amino acids exhibiting features of reported DREB2-type proteins. In cowpea, VuDREB2A transcript accumulation was highly induced by desiccation, heat and salt, but slightly by exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. We also isolated the VuDREB2A promoter and predicted stress-responsive cis-elements in it using Arabidopsis microarray data. The E. coli-expressed VuDREB2A protein showed binding to synthetic oligonucleotides with Dehydration-Responsive Elements (DREs) from Arabidopsis, in electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Heterologous expression of VuDREB2A in Arabidopsis significantly improved plant survival under drought. In addition, overexpression of a truncated version of VuDREB2A, after removal of a putative negative regulatory domain (between amino acids 132-182) led to a dwarf phenotype in the transgenic plants. Microarray and quantitative PCR analyses of VuDREB2A overexpressing Arabidopsis revealed up-regulation of stress-responsive genes having DRE overrepresented in their promoters. In summary, our results indicate that VuDREB2A conserves the basic functionality and mode of regulation of DREB2A in Arabidopsis and could be a potent candidate gene for the genetic improvement of drought resistance in cowpea.
Moth bean (Vigna aconitifolia (Jacq.) Marechal), an important grain-legume crop grown in hot desert regions of Thar, under scorching sun rays, was investigated for heat tolerance at molecular level. In the present study, we constructed a forward suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) cDNA library of heat tolerant genotype RMO-40 to identify genes expressing under delayed response to elevated temperature. Heat induction was carried out by exposing 14-day-old seedlings to elevated temperature of 42 °C for 30 min. A total of 125 unigenes (33 contigs and 92 singletons) were derived by cluster assembly and sequence alignment of 200 ESTs; out of 125 unigenes, 21 (16 %) were found to be novel to moth bean. Gene ontology functional classification terms were retrieved for 98 (78.4 %) unigenes of which 73 (58.4 %) ESTs were functionally annotated (GO consensus) where 19 unigenes were annotated with 11 enzyme commission (EC) codes and were mapped to 25 different KEGG pathways. We have identified a majority of heat-shock proteins (constituting 35 % of the present library) aiding heat stress tolerance to moth bean. An expression level of 22 ESTs generated from the above SSH cDNA library was studied through semiquantitative RT-PCR assay simultaneously under 5 and 30 min of heat stress at 42 °C.
This paper presents the first study describing the isolation, cloning and characterization of a full length gene encoding Bowman-Birk protease inhibitor (RbTI) from rice bean (Vigna umbellata). A full-length protease inhibitor gene with complete open reading frame of 327 bp encoding 109 amino acids was cloned from rice bean seeds using degenerate primer set. BlastP search revealed that the RbTI encoded amino acid of approx 13.0 kDa and shared 99% homology each with BBI from Phaseolus parvulus, Vigna trilobata and Vigna vexilata. Phylogenetic tree also showed close relationship of RbTI with BBI from other members of Leguminaceae family. RbTI gene was further confirmed as intronless (GenBank accession no. KJ159908). The secondary and 3D-structural models for the RbTI were predicted with homology modeling. qRT-PCR studies revealed the highest RbTI expression in the seeds nearing maturity, whereas the low expression of the gene was noticed in young leaves. The isolated RbTI was successfully expressed in Escherichiacoli and the highest expression was recorded after 5.5h of induction. Study on the inhibitory activity of expressed protein against the gut proteases of Hessian fly larvae revealed 87% inhibition. The novel RbTI gene will further broaden the pool of plant defense genes and could be an ideal choice for developing transgenic crops resistant to insect pests with high economic value. In addition, it has the potential to be used as a probe for selection of insect- and pathogen-resistant genotypes.
Cowpea cultivars differing in salt tolerance reveal differences in protein profiles and adopt different strategies to overcome salt stress. Salt-tolerant cultivar shows induction of proteins related to photosynthesis and energy metabolism. Salinity is a major abiotic stress affecting plant cultivation and productivity. The objective of this study was to examine differential proteomic responses to salt stress in leaves of the cowpea cultivars Pitiúba (salt tolerant) and TVu 2331 (salt sensitive). Plants of both cultivars were subjected to salt stress (75 mM NaCl) followed by a recovery period of 5 days. Proteins extracted from leaves of both cultivars were analyzed by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) under salt stress and after recovery. In total, 22 proteins differentially regulated by both salt and recovery were identified by LC-ESI-MS/MS. Our current proteome data revealed that cowpea cultivars adopted different strategies to overcome salt stress. For the salt-tolerant cultivar (Pitiúba), increase in abundance of proteins involved in photosynthesis and energy metabolism, such as rubisco activase, ribulose-5-phosphate kinase (Ru5PK) (EC 2.7.1.19), glycine decarboxylase (EC 1.4.4.2) and oxygen-evolving enhancer (OEE) protein 2, was observed. However, these vital metabolic processes were more profoundly affected in salt-sensitive cultivar (TVu), as indicated by the down-regulation of OEE protein 1, Mn-stabilizing protein-II, carbonic anhydrase (EC 4.2.1.1) and Rubisco (EC 4.1.1.39), leading to energy reduction and a decline in plant growth. Other proteins differentially regulated in both cultivars corresponded to different physiological responses. Overall, our results provide information that could lead to a better understanding of the molecular basis of salt tolerance and sensitivity in cowpea plants.
Vigna radiata (mung bean) is an important crop plant and is a major protein source in developing countries. Mung bean 8S globulins constitute nearly 90% of total seed storage protein and consist of three subunits designated as 8SGα, 8SGα' and 8SGβ. The 5'-flanking sequences of 8SGα' has been reported to confer high expression in transgenic Arabidopsis seeds. In this study, a 472-bp 5'-flanking sequence of 8SGα was identified by genome walking. Computational analysis subsequently revealed the presence of numerous putative seed-specific cis-elements within. The 8SGα promoter was then fused to the gene encoding β-glucuronidase (GUS) to create a reporter construct for Arabidopsis thaliana transformation. The spatial and temporal expression of 8SGα∷GUS, as investigated using GUS histochemical assays, showed GUS expression exclusively in transgenic Arabidopsis seeds. Quantitative GUS assays revealed that the 8SGα promoter showed 2- to 4-fold higher activity than the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. This study has identified a seed-specific promoter of high promoter strength, which is potentially useful for directing foreign protein expression in seed bioreactors.
Significant secretion of citrate from root apex of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) is delayed by several hours under aluminium (Al) stress. However, the molecular basis of regulation of VuMATE1, a gene encoding an Al-activated citrate transporter, remains unclear. In this study, we used suppression subtractive hybridization together with reverse northern blot analysis and qRT-PCR to identify genes with altered transcript levels in the root apex after treatment with low (5 μm) or high (25 μm) concentration of AlCl(3) for a short time (4 h). We found that in addition to VuMATE1, 393 genes showed an early response to Al. Among functionally annotated genes, those related to 'metabolism and energy', 'signal transduction and transcription' and 'transport' was predominantly up-regulated, whereas those associated with 'protein translation, processing and degradation' was predominantly down-regulated. Comparative analysis of transcriptional profiles highlighted candidate genes associated with citrate secretion and revealed several new aspects of the molecular processes underlying Al toxicity and tolerance. Based on the data, it is proposed that metabolic changes represent adaptive mechanisms to Al stress, whereas inhibition of both cell elongation and cell division underlies Al-induced root growth inhibition.
Sarcolipin (SLN) and phospholamban (PLN) inhibit the activity of sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPases (SERCAs) by reducing their apparent affinity for Ca(2+). A ternary complex between SLN, PLN, and SERCAs results in super-inhibition of SERCA activity. Analysis of skeletal muscle homogenate has limited our current understanding of whether SLN and PLN regulate SERCA1a, SERCA2a, or both in skeletal muscle and whether SLN and PLN are co-expressed in skeletal muscle fibers. Biopsies from human vastus lateralis were analyzed through single fiber Western blotting and immunohisto/fluorescence staining to circumvent this limitation. With a newly generated SLN antibody, we report for the first time that SLN protein is present in human skeletal muscle. Addition of the SLN antibody (50 µg) to vastus lateralis homogenates increased the apparent Ca(2+) affinity of SERCA (K Ca, pCa units) (-Ab, 5.85 ± 0.02 vs. +Ab, 5.95 ± 0.02) and maximal SERCA activity (μmol/g protein/min) (-Ab, 122 ± 6.4 vs. +Ab, 159 ± 11) demonstrating a functional interaction between SLN and SERCAs in human vastus lateralis. Specifically, our results suggest that although SLN and PLN may preferentially regulate SERCA1a, and SERCA2a, respectively, physiologically they both may regulate either SERCA isoform. Furthermore, we show that SLN and PLN co-immunoprecipitate in human vastus lateralis homogenate and are simultaneously expressed in 81% of the fibers analyzed with Western blotting which implies that super-inhibition of SERCA may exist in human skeletal muscle. Finally, we demonstrate unequivocally that mouse soleus contains PLN protein suggesting that super-inhibition of SERCA may also be important physiologically in rodent skeletal muscle.
Experimental studies have shown involvement of Wnt signalling in heart failure (HF). We hypothesized that secreted frizzled-related protein 3 (sFRP3), a modulator of Wnt signalling, is related to the progression of HF. Circulating sFRP3 was measured in 153 HF patients and compared with 25 healthy controls. The association of sFRP3 with mortality was evaluated in 1202 patients (GISSI-HF trial). sFRP3 mRNA expression was assessed in failing human and murine left ventricles (LV), and cellular localization was determined after fractioning of myocardial tissue. In vitro studies were carried out in cardiac fibroblasts subjected to cyclic mechanical stretch. (i) Heart failure patients had significantly raised serum sFRP3 levels compared with controls, (ii) during a median follow-up of 47 months, 315 patients died in the GISSI-HF substudy. In univariable Cox regression, tertiles of baseline sFRP3 concentration were significantly associated with all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. After adjustment for demographic and clinical variables, but not for CRP and NT-proBNP, the associations with mortality remained significant for the third tertile (all-cause, HR 1.45, P = 0.011; cardiovascular, HR 1.66, P = 0.003), (iii) sFRP3 mRNA expression was increased in failing human LV, with a decline following LV assist device therapy. LV from post-MI mice showed an increased sFRP3 mRNA level, particularly in cardiac fibroblasts, and (iv) mechanical stretch enhanced sFRP3 expression and release in myocardial fibroblasts. There is an association between increased sFRP3 expression and adverse outcome in HF, suggesting that the failing myocardium itself contributes to an increase in circulating sFRP3.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent a class of small non-coding RNA molecules that play a crucial role in post-transcriptional gene regulation. Several conserved and species-specific miRNAs have been characterized to date, predominantly from the plant species whose genome is well characterized. However, information on the variability of these regulatory RNAs in economically important but genetically less characterized crop species are limited. Vigna mungo is an important grain legume, which is grown primarily for its protein-rich edible seeds. miRNAs from this species have not been identified to date due to lack of genome sequence information. To identify miRNAs from V. mungo, a small RNA library was constructed from young leaves. High-throughput Illumina sequencing technology and bioinformatic analysis of the small RNA reads led to the identification of 66 miRNA loci represented by 45 conserved miRNAs belonging to 19 families and eight non-conserved miRNAs belonging to seven families. Besides, 13 novel miRNA candidates in V. mungo were also identified. Expression patterns of selected conserved, non-conserved, and novel miRNA candidates have been demonstrated in leaf, stem, and root tissues by quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and potential target genes were predicted for most of the conserved miRNAs. This information offers genomic resources for better understanding of miRNA mediated post-transcriptional gene regulation.
H⁺-translocating pyrophosphatase (H⁺-PPase, EC 3.6.1.1) plays an important role in acidifying vacuoles by transporting protons across membranes at the expense of pyrophosphate (PP(i)) hydrolysis. Vigna radiata H⁺-PPase (VrH⁺-PPase) contains 16 transmembrane helices (TMs). The hydrophobicity of TM3 is relatively lower than that of most other TMs, and the amino acids in this TM are highly conserved in plants. Furthermore, TM5 and -6, which are the core TMs involving in H⁺-PPase functions, are near TM3. It is thus proposed that TM3 is associated with H⁺-PPase activity. To address this possibility, site-directed mutagenesis was applied in this investigation to determine the role of TM3 in VrH⁺-PPase. Upon alanine/serine substitution, T138 and S142, whose side chains face toward the center TMs, were found to be involved in efficient proton transport. G149/S153 and G160/A164 pairs at the crucial termini of the two GxxxG-like motifs are indispensable in maintaining enzymatic activities and conformational stability. Moreover, stability in the vicinity surrounding G149 is pivotal for efficient expression. S153, M161 and A164 are critical for the K⁺-mediated stimulation of H⁺-PPase. Taken together, our results demonstrate that TM3 plays essential roles in PP(i) hydrolysis, proton transport, expression, and K⁺ stimulation of H⁺-PPase.
In this work we have characterised the Sinorhizobium fredii HH103 greA lpsB lpsCDE genetic region and analysed for the first time the symbiotic performance of Sinorhizobium fredii lps mutants on soybean. The organization of the S. fredii HH103 greA, lpsB, and lpsCDE genes was equal to that of Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021. S. fredii HH103 greA, lpsB, and lpsE mutant derivatives produced altered LPS profiles that were characteristic of the gene mutated. In addition, S. fredii HH103 greA mutants showed a reduction in bacterial mobility and an increase of auto-agglutination in liquid cultures. RT-PCR and qPCR experiments demonstrated that the HH103 greA gene has a positive effect on the transcription of lpsB. Soybean plants inoculated with HH103 greA, lpsB or lpsE mutants formed numerous ineffective pseudonodules and showed severe symptoms of nitrogen starvation. However, HH103 greA and lps mutants were also able to induce the formation of a reduced number of soybean nodules of normal external morphology, allowing the possibility of studying the importance of bacterial LPS in later stages of the S. fredii HH103-soybean symbiosis. The infected cells of these nodules showed signs of early termination of symbiosis and lytical clearance of bacteroids. These cells also had very thick walls and accumulation of phenolic-like compounds, pointing to induced defense reactions. Our results show the importance of bacterial LPS in later stages of the S. fredii HH103-soybean symbiosis and their role in preventing host cell defense reactions. S. fredii HH103 lpsB mutants also showed reduced nodulation with Vigna unguiculata, although the symbiotic impairment was less pronounced than in soybean.
The present study was conducted in order to assess whether extracts or isolated compounds from Vigna angularis were able to suppress IL-6 signalling and to show the therapeutic effect on collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice. The effect of V. angularis on IL-6 signalling was studied by measuring Stat3-dependent luciferase activity, expression of inflammation-related genes, and phosphorylation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) induced by IL-6. CIA was induced by immunizing with bovine type II collagen. V. angularis extract (VAE) was administrated orally at 50 and 100 mg/kg from day 1 to day 28. Induction of arthritis was evaluated with a visual scoring system and histological analysis. Extracts or two triterpenoid compounds from V. angularis showed potent inhibitory effects on pSTAT3-inducible luciferase activity, STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation and the expression of inflammation-related genes induced by IL-6. Administration of VAE significantly suppressed the progression of CIA, accompanied by a reduced antibody response to type II collagen and protection from tissue damage in knee joints. Administration of VAE has a therapeutic effect on CIA and this effect is associated with the inhibitory activity on IL-6/STAT3 signalling. These results suggest that extracts or compounds from V. angularis could be a useful treatment for diseases related to IL-6, including RA.
The present study investigates the interdependence of plant water status with foliar and root responses in Vigna radiata L.Wilczek under progressive drought. Vegetatively-mature V. radiata plants were subjected to water withdrawal for 3 and 6days (D3 and D6, respectively) and then re-watered subsequently for 6days (6R) for stress-recovery. Changes in plant water status were expressed in terms of leaf and root moisture contents (LMC and RMC, respectively) and leaf relative water content (LRWC). Progressive drought caused apparent decrease in LRWC, LMC and RMC depicting significant level of dehydration of leaf and root tissues. Stomatal limitation alone could not account for the observed decrease in net CO2 assimilation rates (Pn) due to comparatively less decrease in sub-stomatal CO2 (Ci) concentrations with respect to other gas exchange parameters indicating possible involvement of non-stomatal limitations. Analysis of polyphasic chl a fluorescence kinetics during progressive drought showed decreased energy connectivity among PSII units as defined by a positive L-band with highest amplitude during D6. Efficiency of electron flux from OEC towards PSII acceptor side was not significantly affected during drought conditions as evidenced by the absence of a positive K-band. Increasing root-level water-limitation enforced a gradual oxidative stress through H2O2 accumulation and membrane lipid peroxidation in V. radiata roots exhibiting drastic enhancement of proline content and a significant but gradual increase in ascorbic acid content as well as guaiacol peroxidase activity under progressive drought. Expression analysis of Δ(1) pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS) through real time PCR and enzyme activity studies showed a strong positive correlation between VrP5CS gene expression, enzyme activity and proline accumulation in the roots of V. radiata under progressive drought and recovery. Drought-induced changes in root moisture content (RMC) showed positive linear correlations with leaf water content, stomatal conductance as well as transpirational water loss dynamics and a significant negative correlation with the corresponding drought-induced expression patterns of ascorbate, guaiacol peroxidase and proline in roots of V. radiata. The study provides new insights into the plant water status-dependent interrelationship between photosynthetic performance and major root defense responses of V. radiata under progressive drought conditions.
To investigate the incidence and clinical relevance of classic and new prognostic markers, IGHV gene mutational status, and chromosomal abnormalities in clinical monoclonal B lymphocytosis (cMBL) compared with Rai stage 0 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (Rai0-CLL). A group of 136 patients with cMBL and a group of 216 Rai0-CLL cases were investigated prospectively. IGHV-mutated cases were significantly more frequent among cMBLs (P = 0.005), whereas the distribution of CD38 and ZAP-70 positive cases, of patients with NOTCH1 and SF3B1 mutations or exhibiting the major CLL cytogenetic abnormalities, was similar in the two groups. Moreover, no significant differences were found either in IGHV/IGHD/IGHJ gene usage or in the overall prevalence of stereotyped IGHV gene sequences. Cells from cMBL and Rai0-CLL exhibited similar gene and microRNA (miRNA) signatures; in addition, when grouped according to the IGHV mutational status, IGHV-unmutated cases showed different transcriptional signatures compared with IGHV-mutated patients, irrespective of the cMBL or Rai0-CLL classification. cMBL diagnosis per se was predictive of longer progression-free survival. Our study based on a prospective series of patients indicates that no major differences exist between the circulating cells from cMBL and Rai0-CLL, at least based on a comparison of the markers used in the study. This possibly suggests that the two conditions mainly differ in the initial size of the monoclonal cell population, which may influence the subsequent timing of clonal expansion and clinical manifestations.
Due to the key role played in critical sub-populations, Met is considered a relevant therapeutic target for glioblastoma multiforme and lung cancers. The anti-Met DN30 antibody, engineered to a monovalent Fab (Mv-DN30), proved to be a potent antagonist, inducing physical removal of Met receptor from the cell surface. In this study, we designed a gene therapy approach, challenging Mv-DN30 in preclinical models of Met-driven human glioblastoma and lung carcinoma. Mv-DN30 was delivered by a Tet-inducible-bidirectional lentiviral vector. Gene therapy solved the limitations dictated by the short half-life of the low molecular weight form of the antibody. In vitro, upon doxycycline induction, the transgene: (1) drove synthesis and secretion of the correctly assembled Mv-DN30; (2) triggered the displacement of Met receptor from the surface of target cancer cells; (3) suppressed the Met-mediated invasive growth phenotype. Induction of transgene expression in cancer cells-transplanted either subcutaneously or orthotopically in nude mice-resulted in inhibition of tumor growth. Direct Mv-DN30 gene transfer in nude mice, intra-tumor or systemic, was followed by a therapeutic response. These results provide proof of concept for a gene transfer immunotherapy strategy by a Fab fragment and encourage clinical studies targeting Met-driven cancers with Mv-DN30. Gene transfer allows the continuous in vivo production of therapeutic Fab fragments. Mv-DN30 is an excellent tool for the treatment of Met-driven cancers. Mv-DN30 gene therapy represents an innovative route for Met targeting.
The rhizobium-legume symbiosis is a model system for studying mutualistic interactions between bacteria and eukaryotes. Sinorhizobium sp. NGR234 is distinguished by its ability to form either indeterminate nodules or determinate nodules with diverse legumes. Here, we presented a high-resolution RNA-seq transcriptomic analysis of NGR234 bacteroids in indeterminate nodules of Leucaena leucocephala and determinate nodules of Vigna unguiculata. In contrast to exponentially growing free-living bacteria, non-growing bacteroids from both legumes recruited several common cellular functions such as cbb3 oxidase, thiamine biosynthesis, nitrate reduction pathway (NO-producing), succinate metabolism, PHB (poly-3-hydroxybutyrate) biosynthesis and phosphate/phosphonate transporters. However, different transcription profiles between bacteroids from two legumes were also uncovered for genes involved in the biosynthesis of exopolysaccharides, lipopolysaccharides, T3SS (type three secretion system) and effector proteins, cytochrome bd ubiquinol oxidase, PQQ (pyrroloquinoline quinone), cytochrome c550, pseudoazurin, biotin, phasins and glycolate oxidase, and in the metabolism of glutamate and phenylalanine. Noteworthy were the distinct expression patterns of genes encoding phasins, which are thought to be involved in regulating the surface/volume ratio of PHB granules. These patterns are in good agreement with the observed granule size difference between bacteroids from L. leucocephala and V. unguiculata.
In flowering plants, alternative oxidase (Aox) is encoded by 3-5 genes distributed in 2 subfamilies (Aox1 and Aox2). In several species only Aox1 is reported as a stress-responsive gene, but in the leguminous Vigna unguiculata Aox2b is also induced by stress. In this work we investigated the Aox genes from two leguminous species of the Medicago genus (Medicago sativa and Medicago truncatula) which present one Aox1, one Aox2a and an Aox2b duplication (named here Aox2b1 and Aox2b2). Expression analyses by semi-quantitative RT-PCR in M. sativa revealed that Aox1, Aox2b1 and Aox2b2 transcripts increased during seed germination. Similar analyses in leaves and roots under different treatments (SA, PEG, H2O2 and cysteine) revealed that these genes are also induced by stress, but with peculiar spatio-temporal differences. Aox1 and Aox2b1 showed basal levels of expression under control conditions and were induced by stress in leaves and roots. Aox2b2 presented a dual behavior, i.e., it was expressed only under stress conditions in leaves, and showed basal expression levels in roots that were induced by stress. Moreover, Aox2a was expressed at higher levels in leaves and during seed germination than in roots and appeared to be not responsive to stress. The Aox expression profiles obtained from a M. truncatula microarray dataset also revealed a stress-induced co-expression of Aox1, Aox2b1 and Aox2b2 in leaves and roots. These results reinforce the stress-inducible co-expression of Aox1/Aox2b in some leguminous plants. Comparative genomic analysis indicates that this regulation is linked to Aox1/Aox2b proximity in the genome as a result of the gene rearrangement that occurred in some leguminous plants during evolution. The differential expression of Aox2b1/2b2 suggests that a second gene has been originated by recent gene duplication with neofunctionalization.
Expression of ACT, EF1A; H2A, EF1A, ACT and 18S, TUB showed stability under MYMIV, salinity and drought stress, respectively; these are recommended as reference genes for qPCR normalization in Vigna mungo. Accurate gene expression profiling through qPCR depends on selection of appropriate reference gene(s) for normalization. Due to lack of unanimous internal standard, suitable constitutively expressed reference genes are selected that exhibit stable expression under diverse experimental conditions. In this communication, a comparative evaluation of stability among seven V. mungo genes encoding actin (ACT), histone H2A (H2A), elongation factor 1-alpha (EF1A), 18S rRNA (18S), glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), cyclophilin (CYP) and tubulin (TUB) under biotic (MYMIV) and abiotic (drought and salinity) stress conditions has been attempted. Specificity and amplification efficiency for each primer pair were verified; however, cumulative assessment of their accumulated transcripts revealed no uniformity. Therefore, individual stability and suitability of these seven candidates have been assessed in silico, by two widely used algorithms, geNorm and Normfinder. Based on the computed results, high stability was obtained for ACT and EF1A during MYMIV stress, while H2A, EFIA and ACT were found to be most suitable in salinity stress experiments and TUB and 18S during drought treatments. Combinations of ACT/TUB or ACT/EFIA were recommended for their use in the pooled analysis, while expression of 18S and CYP showed greater variations and therefore considered unsuitable as reference genes. Additionally, precise quantification of the target gene VmPRX under these stresses was shown to be a function of reference genes' stability, which tends to get affected when normalized with the least stable genes. Hence, use of these normalizers will facilitate accurate and reliable analyses of gene expression in V. mungo.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) is a satiety hormone produced by discrete enteroendocrine cells scattered among absorptive cells of the small intestine. CCK is released into blood following a meal; however, the mechanisms inducing hormone secretion are largely unknown. Ingested fat is the major stimulant of CCK secretion. We recently identified a novel member of the lipoprotein remnant receptor family known as immunoglobulin-like domain containing receptor 1 (ILDR1) in intestinal CCK cells and postulated that this receptor conveyed the signal for fat-stimulated CCK secretion. In the intestine, ILDR1 is expressed exclusively in CCK cells. Orogastric administration of fatty acids elevated blood levels of CCK in wild-type mice but not Ildr1-deficient mice, although the CCK secretory response to trypsin inhibitor was retained. The uptake of fluorescently labeled lipoproteins in ILDR1-transfected CHO cells and release of CCK from isolated intestinal cells required a unique combination of fatty acid plus HDL. CCK secretion secondary to ILDR1 activation was associated with increased [Ca2+]i, consistent with regulated hormone release. These findings demonstrate that ILDR1 regulates CCK release through a mechanism dependent on fatty acids and lipoproteins and that absorbed fatty acids regulate gastrointestinal hormone secretion.
The aim of the present study was to elucidate whether extracts of Vigna angularis (EVA) inhibit allergic inflammatory reactions and to elucidate the possible mechanisms of action. For the assessment of allergic inflammatory response, histamine release and the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines from human mast cells (HMC-1) were examined. To identify the underlying mechanisms of action, intracellular calcium and the activation of nuclear factor (NF)-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) were assayed. To confirm the effects of EVA in vivo, systemic and local allergic reaction mouse models were employed. EVA dose-dependently reduced phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and calcium ionophore A23187 (PMACI)-induced histamine release from mast cells. The inhibitory effects of EVA on the release of histamine from mast cells were mediated by the reduction of intracellular calcium levels. EVA decreased the PMACI-stimulated gene expression and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interleukin (IL)-6. The inhibitory effects of EVA on pro-inflammatory cytokines were NF-κB- and MAPK-dependent. In addition, EVA inhibited compound 48/80-induced systemic anaphylaxis and immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated cutaneous anaphylaxis. Our findings provide evidence that EVA inhibits mast cell-derived allergic inflammation, and suggest the possible therapeutic application of EVA in allergic inflammatory disorders.
The ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 (UBC E2) mediates selective ubiquitination, acting with E1 and E3 enzymes to designate specific proteins for subsequent degradation. In the present study, we characterized the function of the mung bean VrUBC1 gene (Vigna radiata UBC 1). RNA gel-blot analysis showed that VrUBC1 mRNA expression was induced by either dehydration, high salinity or by the exogenous abscisic acid (ABA), but not by low temperature or wounding. Biochemical studies of VrUBC1 recombinant protein and complementation of yeast ubc4/5 by VrUBC1 revealed that VrUBC1 encodes a functional UBC E2. To understand the function of this gene in development and plant responses to osmotic stresses, we overexpressed VrUBC1 in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The VrUBC1-overexpressing plants displayed highly sensitive responses to ABA and osmotic stress during germination, enhanced ABA- or salt-induced stomatal closing, and increased drought stress tolerance. The expression levels of a number of key ABA signaling genes were increased in VrUBC1-overexpressing plants compared to the wild-type plants. Yeast two-hybrid and bimolecular fluorescence complementation demonstrated that VrUBC1 interacts with AtVBP1 (A. thalianaVrUBC1 Binding Partner 1), a C3HC4-type RING E3 ligase. Overall, these results demonstrate that VrUBC1 plays a positive role in osmotic stress tolerance through transcriptional regulation of ABA-related genes and possibly through interaction with a novel RING E3 ligase.
Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), which are differentiated from other antibiotic peptides, such as gramicidins and polymyxins, because they are synthesized by large enzymatic complex and bear modified amino acids including d-amino acids, are short polymers of l-amino acids synthesized by ribosomes upon which all living organisms rely to defend themselves from invaders or competitor microorganisms. AMPs have received a great deal of attention from the scientific community as potential new drugs for neglected diseases such as Leishmaniasis. In plants, they include several families of compounds, including the plant defensins. The aim of the present study was to improve the expression of recombinant defensin from Vigna unguiculata seeds (Vu-Defr) and to test its activity against Leishmania amazonensis promatigotes. Recombinant expression was performed in LB and TB media and under different conditions. The purification of Vu-Defr was achieved by immobilized metal ion affinity and reversed-phase chromatography. The purified Vu-Defr was analyzed by circular dichroism (CD), and its biological activity was tested against L. amazonenis promastigotes. To demonstrate that the recombinant production of Vu-Defr did not interfere with its fold and biological activity, the results of all experiments were compared with the results from the natural defensin (Vu-Def). The CD spectra of both peptides presented good superimposition indicating that both peptides present very similar secondary structure and that the Vu-Defr was correctly folded. L. amazonensis treated with Vu-Defr led to the elimination of 54.3% and 46.9% of the parasites at 24 and 48h of incubation time, respectively. Vu-Def eliminated 50% and 54.8% of the parasites at 24 and 48 h, respectively. Both were used at a concentration of 100 μg/mL. These results suggested the potential for plant defensins to be used as new antiparasitic substances.
Plants are proven effective bioreactors for the production of heterologous proteins including those desired by the biopharmaceutical industry. However, the potential of plants as bioreactors is limited by the availability of characterized plant promoters that can drive target gene expression in relatively distant plant species. Seeds are ideal for protein storage because seed proteins can be kept stably for several months. Hence, a strong promoter that can direct the expression and accumulation of target proteins within seeds represents a powerful tool in plant biotechnology. Toward this end, an effort was made to identify such a promoter from Vigna radiata (mung bean) to drive expression in dicot seeds. A 784-bp 5'-flanking sequence of the gene encoding the 8S globulin α' subunit (8SGα') of the V. radiata seed storage protein was isolated by genome walking. When the 5'-flanking region was analyzed with bioinformatics tools, numerous putative cis-elements were identified. The Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) regulated by this promoter was observed to be transiently expressed in protoplasts derived from V. radiata cotyledons. Finally, transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene driven from the 8S globulin α' promoter showed strong GUS expression in transgenic embryos in both histochemical and quantitative GUS assays, confirming high expression within seeds. Therefore, the V. radiata 8S α' promoter has shown potential in directing expression in seeds for bioreactor applications.
Proteomic analysis of developing mungbean (Vigna radiata L.) seeds has not yet been investigated in detail. Fifty-seven proteins were separated by 2-DE, identified by nanoelectrospray mass spectrometry from the present protein databases, and categorized according to their functions. Many of the identified enzymes were involved in central carbon metabolism; thus, a pathway illustrating starch synthesis/breakdown, sugar conversion for glycolysis, and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle was proposed. Quantitative comparison of the protein expression revealed that during developmental process (11-21 days after flowering, DAF), proteins involved in glycolysis, TCA cycle, and alcoholic fermentation showed a trend to be down-regulated, whereas storage proteins were generally up-regulated. The downward tendency of central carbon metabolic proteins suggests a reduction in ATP and oxygen consumption associated with accumulation of storage compounds. UDP-glucose-1-pyrophosphorylase, an upstream enzyme in the starch ADP-Glc pathway, was found as a stably expressed protein throughout the growth stage, demonstrating its importance in mungbean starch biosynthesis. The temporal expression of metabolic enzymes suggests the coordination of an acclimation mechanism and cellular processes associated with accumulation of storage compounds in seed development.
Vigna unguiculata (VU) leaves are edible and used as a leafy vegetable in cuisine from traditional times in India. This study was designed to investigate the cardioprotective effect of VU in cholesterol fed rabbits. The animals were randomly divided into 4 groups of 6 animals each and the experimental period was 3 months. Group I-ND [normal diet 40 g feed], Group II-ND + FVU [flavanoid fraction of Vigna unguiculata (150 mg kg (-1) per body weight)], Group III-ND + CH [cholesterol (400 mg)] and Group IV-ND + CH (400 mg) +FVU (150 mg kg(-1) per body weight). After the experimental period, animals were sacrificed and the various parameters, such as cardiac markers, toxicity parameters, genotoxicity and gene expression, were investigated. Cholesterol feeding causes a significant increase in the levels of cardiac marker enzymes, namely lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine phospokinase (CPK), atherogenic index, toxicity parameters like serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (SGOT) and serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase (SGPT) were elevated. Antioxidant enzyme levels were decreased, lipid peroxidation products in heart tissue and inflammatory markers, namely cyclooxygenase (COX2) and lipooxygenase (LOX15) in peripheral blood monocytes (PBMCs), were significantly increased. A genotoxicity study using a Comet assay and gene expression by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) of transforming growth factor-b1 (TGF-b1) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) from heart tissue showed an altered expression in the disease group. The supplementation of the flavonoid fraction of Vigna unguiculata leaves (FVU) in the CH + FVU group caused the reversal of the above parameters and cardiotoxicity to near normal when compared with the CH group and FVU. This study revealed the cardioprotective nature of Vigna unguiculata in preventing cardiovascular diseases and this effect is attributed to the presence of antioxidants and the antihyperlipidemic properties of the flavonoid fraction of Vigna unguiculata leaves.
Two native epoxide hydrolases (EHs) were previously discovered from mung bean powder (Vigna radiata), both of which can catalyze the enantioconvergent hydrolysis of p-nitrostyrene oxide (pNSO). In this study, the encoding gene of VrEH1 was successfully cloned from the cDNA of V. radiata by RT-PCR and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) technologies. High homologies were found to two putative EHs originated from Glycine max (80%) and Medicago truncatula (79%). The vreh1 gene constructed in pET28a(+) vector was then heterologously overexpressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3), and the encoded protein was purified to homogeneity by nickel affinity chromatography. It was shown that VrEH1 has an optimum activity at 45 °C and is very thermostable with an inactivation energy of 468 kJ mol(-1). The enzyme has no apparent requirement of metal ions for activity, and its activity was strongly inhibited by 1 mM of Ni(2+), Cu(2+), Fe(2+), or Co(2+). By adding 0.1% Triton X-100, the enzyme activity could be significantly increased up to 340%. VrEH1 shows an unusual ability of enantioconvergent catalysis for the hydrolysis of racemic pNSO, affording (R)-p-nitrophenyl glycol (pNPG). It displays opposite regioselectivity toward (S)-pNSO (83% to Cα) in contrast to (R)-pNSO (87% to Cβ). The K M and k cat of VrEH1 were determined to be 1.4 mM and 0.42 s(-1) for (R)-pNSO and 5.5 mM and 6.2 s(-1) for (S)-pNSO. This thermostable recombinant VrEH1 with enantioconvergency is considered to be a promising biocatalyst for the highly productive preparation of enantiopure vicinal diols and also a good model for understanding the mechanism of EH stereoselectivity.
Total body computed tomography (TB-CT) scan is not mandatory in the diagnostic/staging algorithm of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The aim of this study was to determine the value and prognostic significance of TB-CT scan in early stage CLL patients. Baseline TB-CT scan was performed in 240 Binet stage A CLL patients (179 Rai low- and 61 Rai intermediate-risk) included in a prospective multicenter observational study (clinicaltrial.gov ID:NCT00917549). The cohort included 69 clinical monoclonal B lymphocytosis (cMBLs). Patients were restaged considering only radiological data. Following TB-CT scans, 20% of cases reclassified as radiologic Binet (r-Binet) stage B. r-Binet B patients showed a higher incidence of unfavorable cytogenetic abnormalities (P = 0.027), as well as a shorter PFS (P = 0.001). At multivariate analysis, r-Binet stage [HR = 2.48; P = 0.004] and IGHV mutational status [HR = 3.01; P = 0.002] retained an independent predictive value for PFS. Among 179 Rai low-risk cases, 100 were redefined as r-Rai intermediate-risk based upon TB-CT scan data, showing a higher rate of cases with higher ZAP-70 (P = 0.033) and CD38 expression (P = 0.029) and β2-microglobulin levels (P < 0.0001), as well as a shorter PFS than those with r-Rai low-risk (P = 0.008). r-Rai stage [HR = 2.78; P = 0.046] and IGHV mutational status [HR = 4.25; P = 0.009] retained a significant predictive value for PFS at multivariate analysis. Forty-two percent of cMBL patients were reclassified as r-small lymphocytic lymphomas (r-SLLs) by TB-CT scan. TB-CT scan appears to provide relevant information in early stage CLL related to the potential and the timing of patients to progress towards the more advanced disease stages.
Cardiovascular diseases, especially atherosclerosis, have found to be the dreadful diseases worldwide and therapeutic interventions using plant sources have wide therapeutic value. Vigna unguiculata (VU) leaves have been used as food and therapeutics. Hence, our study was designed to evaluate the hypolipidemic as well as anti-atherogenic potential of VU leaves in normalizing atherogenic gene expression, cholesterol profile, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and antioxidant enzyme system on cholesterol fed rabbit model. For the study New Zealand white rabbits were randomly divided into four groups of six animals each and experimental period was three months; group -i - ND [normal diet (40 g feed)], group-ii- ND (normal diet) +EAVU [ethyl acetate fraction of Vigna unguiculata (150 mg/kg body weight)], group -iii- ND [normal diet ]+ CFD [cholesterol fed diet (cholesterol 1 % of 40 g feed and cholic acid 0.5 % of 40 g feed)] and group-iv - ND [normal diet] +CFD [cholesterol fed diet ]+EAVU [ethyl acetate fraction of Vigna unguiculata (150 mg/kg body weight)]. Atherosclerosis was induced by feeding the rabbit with cholesterol (1 % of 40 g feed) and cholic acid (0.5 % of 40 g feed). Supplementation of EAVU normalized cholesterol profile, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation products like thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS), antioxidant system and important genes of cardiovascular diseases like interleukin-10 (IL 10), paraoxanase-1 (PON I), interleukin-6 (IL 6), and cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox 2) to near normal level as compared with normal diet. The result obtained showed the antioxidant as well as anti-atherogenic potential of Vigna unguiculata leaves in ameliorating cholesterol induced atherosclerosis, and thus it is good task to include VU leaves in daily diet for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases especially atherosclerosis.
A reproducible and highly efficient protocol for genetic transformation mediated by Agrobacterium has been established for greengram (Vigna radiata L. Wilczek). Double cotyledonary node (DCN) explants were inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA 4404 harboring a binary vector pCAMBIA 2301 containing neomycin phosphotransferase (npt II) gene as selectable marker, β-glucuronidase (GUS) as a reporter (uidA) gene and annexin 1 bj gene. Important parameters like optical density of Agrobacterium culture, culture quantity, infection medium, infection and co-cultivation time and acetosyringone concentration were standardized to optimize the transformation frequency. Kanamycin at a concentration of 100 mg/l was used to select transformed cells. Transient and stable GUS expressions were studied in transformed explants and regenerated putative plants, respectively. Transformed shoot were produced on regeneration medium containing 100 mg/l kanamycin and 250 mg/l cefotaxime and rooted on ½ MS medium. Transient and constitutive GUS expression was observed in DCN explants and different tissues of T(0) and T(1) plants. Rooted T(0) and T(1) shoots confirming Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) positive for npt II and annexin 1bj genes were taken to maturity to collect the seeds. Integration of annexin gene into the greengram genome was confirmed by Southern blotting.
Aluminium (Al)-activated citrate secretion plays an important role in Al resistance in a number of plant species, such as rice bean (Vigna umbellata). This study further characterized the regulation of VuMATE1, an aluminium-activated citrate transporter. Al stress induced VuMATE1 expression, followed by the secretion of citrate. Citrate secretion was specific to Al stress, whereas VuMATE1 expression was not, which could be explained by a combined regulation of VuMATE1 expression and Al-specific activation of VuMATE1 protein. Pre-treatment with a protein translation inhibitor suppressed VuMATE1 expression, indicating that de novo biosynthesis of proteins is required for gene expression. Furthermore, post-treatment with a protein translation inhibitor inhibited citrate secretion, indicating that post-transcriptional regulation of VuMATE1 is critical for citrate secretion. Protein kinase and phosphatase inhibitor studies showed that reversible phosphorylation was important not only for transcriptional regulation of VuMATE1 expression but also for post-translational regulation of VuMATE1 protein activity. These results suggest that citrate secretion is dependent on both transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of VuMATE1. Additionally, VuMATE1 promoter-β-glucuronidase fusion lines revealed that VuMATE1 expression was restricted to the root apex and was entirely Al induced, indicating the presence of cis-acting elements regulating root tip-specific and Al-inducible gene expression, which will be an important resource for genetic improvement of plant Al resistance.
In this study, we evaluated the antiobesity effects of Vigna nakashimae (VN) extract and elucidated the underlying mechanisms. VN extract suppressed adipocyte differentiation and significantly attenuated the expression of adipogenic genes in 3T3-L1 cells. It decreased the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) and its target genes in fully differentiated 3T3-L1 cells. Moreover, it enhanced the phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and acetyl CoA carboxylase (ACC), and increased the expression of fatty acid oxidation genes. In high-fat diet (HFD) fed mice, VN extract suppressed HFD-induced increases in body weight, epididymal fat tissue weight, and hepatic lipid levels, and decreased the plasma levels of triacylglycerols, fatty acid, total cholesterol, and inflammatory cytokines. Consistently with in vitro study results, VN extract prevented HFD-induced increases in the expression of PPARγ and its target genes, and restored the decrease in the phosphorylation of AMPK and ACC in epididymal fat and liver tissues. These findings suggest that Vigna nakashimae prevents obesity through suppression of PPARγ expression and activation of AMPK, and that it might be a useful dietary supplement for the prevention of obesity.
This study investigated the subcellular location of mung bean (Vigna radiata) 8S globulin in transient expression systems as well as in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells and different tissues from a transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) line stably expressing this storage globulin. When transiently expressed in protoplasts from both BY-2 cells and Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells, the 8S globulin located to structures that were neither Golgi nor pre-vacuolar compartments (PVCs). Immunogold electron microscopy of the transgenics reveals the 8S globulin-positive structures to be small, spherical, ribosome-covered endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-derived bodies. In BY-2 cells and all vegetative cells, the 8S globulin was present as a pro-form. However, in Arabidopsis embryos, with the onset of endogenous storage protein synthesis, the 8S globulin exited the ER and passed through the PVC to the protein storage vacuole where it was processed to its smaller mature form. These results clearly demonstrated that, when taken out of context and expressed in vegetative cells, the mung bean 8S storage globulin cannot exit the ER, and indicate that natural targeting of storage proteins to the vacuole should be better studied in the maturing seed.
Moth bean ( Vigna aconitifolia (Jacq.) Marechal) is an important grain legume crop grown in rain fed areas of hot desert regions of Thar, India, under scorching sun rays with very little supplementation of water. An SSH cDNA library was generated from leaf tissues of V. aconitifolia var. RMO-40 exposed to an elevated temperature of 42 °C for 5 min to identify early-induced genes. A total of 488 unigenes (114 contigs and 374 singletons) were derived by cluster assembly and sequence alignment of 738 ESTs; out of 206 ESTs (28%) of unknown proteins, 160 ESTs (14%) were found to be novel to moth bean. Only 578 ESTs (78%) showed significant BLASTX similarity (<1 × 10(-6)) in the NCBI non-redundant database. Gene ontology functional classification terms were retrieved for 479 (65%) sequences, and 339 sequences were annotated with 165 EC codes and mapped to 68 different KEGG pathways. Four hundred and fifty-two ESTs were further annotated with InterProScan (IPS), and no IPS was assigned to 153 ESTs. In addition, the expression level of 27 ESTs in response to heat stress was evaluated through semiquantitative RT-PCR assay. Approximately 20 different signaling genes and 16 different transcription factors have been shown to be associated with heat stress in moth bean for the first time.
Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata L. Walp., is one of the most important food and forage legumes in the semi-arid tropics. While most domesticated forms of cowpea are susceptible to the root parasitic weed Striga gesnerioides, several cultivars have been identified that show race-specific resistance. Cowpea cultivar B301 contains the RSG3-301 gene for resistance to S. gesnerioides race SG3, but is susceptible to race SG4z. When challenged by SG3, roots of cultivar B301 develop a strong resistance response characterized by a hypersensitive reaction and cell death at the site of parasite attachment. In contrast, no visible response occurs in B301 roots parasitized by SG4z. Gene expression in the roots of the cowpea cultivar B301 during compatible (susceptible) and incompatible (resistant) interactions with S. gesnerioides races SG4z and SG3, respectively, were investigated at the early (6 days post-inoculation (dpi)) and late (13 dpi) stages of the resistance response using a Nimblegen custom design cowpea microarray. A total of 111 genes were differentially expressed in B301 roots at 6 dpi; this number increased to 2102 genes at 13 dpi. At 13 dpi, a total of 1944 genes were differentially expressed during compatible (susceptible) interactions of B301 with SG4z. Genes and pathways involved in signal transduction, programmed cell death and apoptosis, and defense response to biotic and abiotic stress were differentially expressed in the early resistance response; at the later time point, enrichment was primarily for defense-related gene expression, and genes encoding components of lignifications and secondary wall formation. In compatible interactions (B301-SG4z), multiple defense pathways were repressed, including those involved in lignin biosynthesis and secondary cell wall modifications, while cellular transport processes for nitrogen and sulfur were increased. Distinct changes in global gene expression profiles occur in host roots following successful and unsuccessful attempted parasitism by Striga. Induction of specific defense related genes and pathways defines components of a unique resistance mechanism. Some genes and pathways up-regulated in the host resistance response to SG3 are repressed in the susceptible interactions, suggesting that the parasite is targeting specific components of the host's defense. These results add to our understanding of plant-parasite interactions and the evolution of resistance to parasitic weeds.
Generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in plants is an inevitable consequence of adverse environmental cues and the ability to detoxify deleterious by-products of ROS-mediated oxidation reactions reflect an important defence strategy to combat abiotic stress. Here, we have cloned the eutypine reducing aldehyde reductase gene (VrALR) from Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek roots. We have expressed and purified the VrALR protein and analyzed its enzyme kinetic parameters and catalytic efficiency with three different substrates to confirm its identity. The functional characterization of this enzyme was unravelled through heterologous expression of the gene in Escherichia coli BL21 and an oxidative stress-sensitive Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant strain, W3O3-1-A. Finally, the endogenous VrALR enzyme activity and the mRNA expression patterns of the VrALR gene in the roots of V. radiata in response to progressive drought stress in vivo was studied to correlate the ROS-detoxifying role of this important enzyme under the influence of progressive drought stress. Our results, for the first time, demonstrate that eutypine reducing VrALR provides varying degree of stress tolerance in bacteria, yeast systems and also plays a promising protective role against oxidative stress in V. radiata roots during gradual water deprivation. The present study provides an unequivocal evidence to understand the crucial role of aldehyde reductase ROS-detoxifying system which is highly essential for developing stress tolerance in economically important crop plants.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) is an important grain and forage legume grown throughout sub-Saharan Africa primarily by subsistence farmers on poor, drought prone soils. Genetic improvement of the crop is being actively pursued and numerous functional genomics studies are underway aimed at characterizing gene controlling key agronomic characteristics for disease and pest resistances. Unfortunately, similar to other legumes, efficient plant transformation technology is a rate-limiting step in analysis of gene function in cowpea. Here we describe an optimized protocol for the rapid generation of transformed hairy roots on ex vitro composite plants of cowpea using Agrobacterium rhizogenes. We further demonstrate the applicability of cowpea composite plants to study gene expression involved in the resistance response of the plant roots to attack by the root parasitic weed, Striga gesnerioides. The utility of the new system and critical parameters of the method are described and discussed herein. Cowpea composite plants offer a rapid alternative to methods requiring stable transformation and whole plant regeneration for studying gene expression in resistance or susceptibility responses to parasitic weeds. Their use can likely be readily adapted to look at the effects of both ectopic gene overexpression as well as gene knockdown of root associated defense responses and to the study of a broader range of root associated physiological and aphysiological processes including root growth and differentiation as well as interactions with other root pests, parasites, and symbionts.
Cyclic-β-glucans (CβG) consist of cyclic homo-polymers of glucose that are present in the periplasmic space of many Gram-negative bacteria. A number of studies have demonstrated their importance for bacterial infection of plant and animal cells. In this study, a mutant of Rhizobium (Sinorhizobium) sp. strain NGR234 (NGR234) was generated in the cyclic glucan synthase (ndvB)-encoding gene. The great majority of CβG produced by wild-type NGR234 are negatively charged and substituted. The ndvB mutation abolished CβG biosynthesis. We found that, in NGR234, a functional ndvB gene is essential for hypo-osmotic adaptation and swimming, attachment to the roots, and efficient infection of Vigna unguiculata and Leucaena leucocephala.
A novel dehydrin gene (VrDhn1) was isolated from an embryo cDNA library of Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek (mungbean) variety VC1973A. The intronless VrDhn1 gene encodes a protein belonging to the Y(2)K-type dehydrin family. VrDhn1 protein accumulated in embryos and cotyledons during seed maturation and disappeared 2 days after seed imbibition (DAI). The expression of VrDhn1 mRNA and accumulation of VrDhn1 protein were at high levels in mature seeds, but neither mRNA nor protein was detected in mungbean vegetative tissues under normal growth conditions. The VrDhn1 mRNA level was extremely high in mature seeds and decreased to ∼30% at 1 DAI, and was not detectable at ~7 DAI. Tissue dehydration, salinity and exogenous ABA markedly induced VrDhn1 transcripts in plants as measured by quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR). VrDhn1 protein was not detected using immunoblots in seedlings under stress treatments. In mature seeds or 1 DAI seedlings, VrDhn1 proteins were immunolocalized in the nucleus and cytoplasm. VrDhn1 exhibited low affinity for non-specific interaction with DNA using electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs), and the exogenous addition of Zn(2+) or Ni(2+) stimulated interaction. The His-tagged VrDhn1 (30.17 kDa) protein showed a molecular mass of 63.1 kDa on gel filtration, suggesting a dimer form. This is the first report showing that a Y(2)K-type VrDhn1 enters the nucleus and interacts with DNA during seed maturation.
The Sinorhizobium fredii HH103 rkp-3 region has been isolated and sequenced. Based on the similarities between the S. fredii HH103 rkpL, rkpM, rkpN, rkpO, rkpP, and rkpQ genes and their corresponding orthologues in Helicobacter pylori, we propose a possible pathway for the biosynthesis of the S. fredii HH103 K-antigen polysaccharide (KPS) repeating unit. Three rkp-3 genes (rkpM, rkpP, and rkpQ) involved in the biosynthesis of the HH103 KPS repeating unit (a derivative of the pseudaminic acid) have been mutated and analyzed. All the rkp-3 mutants failed to produce KPS and their lipopolysaccharide (LPS) profiles were altered. These mutants showed reduced motility and auto-agglutinated when early-stationary cultures were further incubated under static conditions. Glycine max, Vigna unguiculata (determinate nodule-forming legumes), and Cajanus cajan (indeterminate nodules) plants inoculated with mutants in rkpM, rkpQ, or rkpP only formed pseudonodules that did not fix nitrogen and were devoid of bacteria. In contrast, another indeterminate nodule-forming legume, Glycyrrhiza uralensis, was still able to form some nitrogen-fixing nodules with the three S. fredii HH103 rifampicin-resistant rkp-3 mutants tested. Our results suggest that the severe symbiotic impairment of the S. fredii rkp-3 mutants with soybean, V. unguiculata, and C. cajan is mainly due to the LPS alterations rather than to the incapacity to produce KPS.
A MADS box gene AGL20/SOC1 is a main integrator in Arabidopsis flowering pathway whose structure and function are highly conserved in many plant species. A soybean MADS box gene GmGAL1 (Glycine max AGAMOUS Like 1) as a homolog of AGL20/SOC1, was cloned from soybean cultivar Kennong18 and its function was investigated in transgenic Arabidopsis lines. Sequence comparisons showed that the closest homolog gene to GmGAL1 is AGL20/SOC1 in Arabidopsis and VuSOC1 in Vigna unguiculata. We investigated the expression level of GmGAL1 using quantitative real-time PCR, and the result showed that GmGAL1 was regulated by a circadian mechanism and its expression oscillated at a cycle of 24 h. The expression level of GmGAL1 was fluctuated in diverse tissues/organs and developmental stages. Considering its expression can be detected in different tissues throughout the life cycle and its protein localized in cytoplasm in Arabidopsis protoplasm, we proposed that GmGAL1 may be a multifunctional gene in the context of the soybean development. Ectopic expression of GmGAL1 in Arabidopsis enhanced flowering under long-day condition and partially rescued soc1 late flowering type.
A new method for obtaining transgenic cowpea was developed using positive selection based on the Escherichia coli 6-phosphomannose isomerase gene as the selectable marker and mannose as the selective agent. Only transformed cells were capable of utilizing mannose as a carbon source. Cotyledonary node explants from 4-day-old in vitro-germinated seedlings of cultivar Pusa Komal were inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 carrying the vector pNOV2819. Regenerating transformed shoots were selected on medium supplemented with a combination of 20 g/l mannose and 5 g/l sucrose as carbon source. The transformed shoots were rooted on medium devoid of mannose. Transformation efficiency based on PCR analysis of individual putative transformed shoots was 3.6%. Southern blot analysis on five randomly chosen PCR-positive plants confirmed the integration of the pmi transgene. Qualitative reverse transcription (qRT-PCR) analysis demonstrated the expression of pmi in T₀ transgenic plants. Chlorophenol red (CPR) assays confirmed the activity of PMI in transgenic plants, and the gene was transmitted to progeny in a Mendelian fashion. The transformation method presented here for cowpea using mannose selection is efficient and reproducible, and could be used to introduce a desirable gene(s) into cowpea for biotic and abiotic stress tolerance.
A mung bean (Vigna radiata) pectin acetyl esterase (CAA67728) was heterologously expressed in tubers of potato (Solanum tuberosum) under the control of the granule-bound starch synthase promoter or the patatin promoter in order to probe the significance of O-acetylation on cell wall and tissue properties. The recombinant tubers showed no apparent macroscopic phenotype. The enzyme was recovered from transgenic tubers using a high ionic strength buffer and the extract was active against a range of pectic substrates. Partial in vivo de-acetylation of cell wall polysaccharides occurred in the transformants, as shown by a 39% decrease in the degree of acetylation (DA) of tuber cell wall material (CWM). Treatment of CWM using a combination of endo-polygalacturonase and pectin methyl esterase extracted more pectin polymers from the transformed tissue compared to wild type. The largest effect of the pectin acetyl esterase (68% decrease in DA) was seen in the residue from this extraction, suggesting that the enzyme is preferentially active on acetylated pectin that is tightly bound to the cell wall. The effects of acetylation on tuber mechanical properties were investigated by tests of failure under compression and by determination of viscoelastic relaxation spectra. These tests suggested that de-acetylation resulted in a stiffer tuber tissue and a stronger cell wall matrix, as a result of changes to a rapidly relaxing viscoelastic component. These results are discussed in relation to the role of pectin acetylation in primary cell walls and its implications for industrial uses of potato fibres.
Yellow mosaic disease of Vigna mungo caused by Mungbean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV) is still a major threat in the crop production. A candidate disease resistance (R) gene, CYR1 that co-segregates with MYMIV-resistant populations of V. mungo has been isolated. CYR1 coded in silico translated protein sequence comprised of 1,176 amino acids with coiled coil structure at the N-terminus, central nucleotide binding site (NBS) and C-terminal leucine-rich repeats (LRR) that belongs to non-TIR-NBS-LRR subfamily of plant R genes. CYR1 transcript was unambiguously expressed during incompatible plant virus interactions. A putative promoter-like sequence present upstream of this candidate gene perhaps regulates its expression. Enhanced transcript level upon MYMIV infection suggests involvement of this candidate gene in conferring resistance against the virus. In silico constructed 3D models of NBS and LRR regions of this candidate protein and MYMIV-coat protein (CP) revealed that CYR1-LRR forms an active pocket and successively interacts with MYMIV-CP during docking, like that of receptor-ligand interaction; indicating a critical role of CYR1 as signalling molecule to protect V. mungo plants from MYMIV. This suggests involvement of CYR1 in recognizing MYMIV-effector molecule thus contributing to incompatible interaction. This study is the first stride to understand molecular mechanism of MYMIV resistance.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata spp unguiculata) is adapted to the drier agro-ecological zones of West Africa where it is a major source of dietary protein and widely used as a fodder crop. Improving the productivity of cowpea can enhance food availability and security in West Africa. Insect predation--predominately from the legume pod borer (Maruca vitrata), flower thrips (Megalurothrips sjostedti) and a complex of pod-sucking bugs (e.g., Clavigralla spp)--is a major yield-limiting factor in West African cowpea production. Dramatic increases in yield are shown when M. vitrata is controlled with insecticides. However, availability, costs, and safety considerations limit pesticides as a viable option for boosting cowpea production. Development of Bt-cowpea through genetic modification (GM) to control the legume pod borer is a promising approach to cowpea improvement. Cowpea expressing the lepidopteran-active Cry1Ab protein from Bacillus thuringiensis is being developed as a first generation Bt-cowpea crop for West Africa. Appropriate stewardship of Bt-cowpea to assure its sustainability under West African conditions is critical to its successful development. A first step in this process is an environmental risk assessment to determine the likelihood and magnitude of adverse effects of the Cry1Ab protein on key environmental protection goals in West Africa. Here we describe the results of an expert panel convened in 2009 to develop the problem formulation phase for Bt-cowpea and to address specific issues around gene flow, non-target arthropods, and insect resistance management.
In the last three decades, a number of attempts have been made to develop reproducible protocols for generating transgenic cowpea that permit the expression of genes of agronomic importance. Pioneer works focused on the development of such systems vis-à-vis an in vitro culture system that would guarantee de novo regeneration of transgenic cowpea arising from cells amenable to one form of gene delivery system or another, but any such system has eluded researchers over the years. Despite this apparent failure, significant progress has been made in generating transgenic cowpea, bringing researchers much nearer to their goal than thirty years ago. Now, various researchers have successfully established transgenic procedures for cowpea with evidence of inherent transgenes of interest, effected by progenies in a Mendelian fashion. New opportunities have thus emerged to optimize existing protocols and devise new strategies to ensure the development of transgenic cowpea with desirable agronomic traits. This review chronicles the important milestones in the last thirty years that have marked the evolution of genetic engineering of cowpea. It also highlights the progress made and describes new strategies that have arisen, culminating in the current status of transgenic technologies for cowpea.
Two different but related sequences that encode Vigna luteola 7S vicilins were isolated and characterized. The sequences differ by two nucleotide substitutions, each of which results in an amino acid replacement. This low level of divergence suggests that a recent gene duplication has occurred. Both variants are expressed in cDNA populations; therefore, neither gene is a pseudogene. Both copies were present in all individuals (72) analyzed using real-time PCR and TaqMan probes. Segregation was not observed. The two sequences are not independent alleles. Vicilin genomic sequences of 11 specimens from six geographic locations were determined. No polymorphic sites were identified in either of the two gene copies. This lack of polymorphism suggests that either a population bottleneck or selection has occurred. The genetic structure, expression patterns, and protein composition of the V. luteola vicilins were compared to those of other legume vicilins.
N-Acyl-homoserine-lactones (AHLs) are bacterial quorum-sensing signaling molecules that regulate population density. Recent evidence demonstrates their roles in plant defense responses and root development. Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), nitric oxide (NO), and cyclic GMP (cGMP) are essential messengers that participate in various plant physiological processes, but how these messengers modulate the plant response to N-acyl-homoserine-lactone signals remains poorly understood. Here, we show that the N-3-oxo-decanoyl-homoserine-lactone (3-O-C10-HL), in contrast to its analog with an unsubstituted branch chain at the C3 position, efficiently stimulated the formation of adventitious roots and the expression of auxin-response genes in explants of mung bean (Vigna radiata) seedlings. This response was mimicked by the exogenous application of auxin, H(2)O(2), NO, or cGMP homologs but suppressed by treatment with scavengers or inhibitors of H(2)O(2), NO, or cGMP metabolism. The 3-O-C10-HL treatment enhanced auxin basipetal transport; this effect could be reversed by treatment with H(2)O(2) or NO scavengers but not by inhibitors of cGMP synthesis. Inhibiting 3-O-C10-HL-induced H(2)O(2) or NO accumulation impaired auxin- or 3-O-C10-HL-induced cGMP synthesis; however, blocking cGMP synthesis did not affect auxin- or 3-O-C10-HL-induced H(2)O(2) or NO generation. Additionally, cGMP partially rescued the inhibitory effect of H(2)O(2) or NO scavengers on 3-O-C10-HL-induced adventitious root development and auxin-response gene expression. These results suggest that 3-O-C10-HL, unlike its analog with an unmodified branch chain at the C3 position, can accelerate auxin-dependent adventitious root formation, possibly via H(2)O(2)- and NO-dependent cGMP signaling in mung bean seedlings.
Viruses can be used as vectors for transient expression of proteins in plants but frequently foreign gene inserts are not maintained stably over time due to recombination events. In this study the hypothesis was that the choice of plant host affects the foreign gene retention level by a Tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV) vector expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP). To accomplish this, a novel virus vector integrity bioassay was developed based on an old concept, whereby RNA transcripts of the TBSV-GFP vector were rub-inoculated onto leaves of test plants, and at 3 days post inoculation (dpi), these leaves were used as inoculum for passage to cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), a local lesion host. Chlorotic lesions at points of virus infection were counted on cowpea at 4dpi and then the leaves were exposed to ultraviolet light to count green fluorescent foci. These tests with seven different plant species covering five families showed that the percentage of green fluorescent lesions varied on the cowpea indicator plants in a host-dependent manner. For instance, the vector was relatively unstable in Nicotiana benthamiana, tomato, bean, and spinach, but compared to those its stability in lettuce was significantly improved (~3-fold). This host-dependent effect suggests that some plants may present a more suitable environment than others to support or maintain optimum levels of virus vector-mediated foreign gene expression.
In the presence of flavonoids, Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 synthesizes a new lipopolysaccharide (LPS), characterized by a rhamnan O-antigen. The presence of this rhamnose-rich LPS is important for the establishment of competent symbiotic interactions between NGR234 and many species of leguminous plants. Two putative rhamnosyl transferases are encoded in a cluster of genes previously shown to be necessary for the synthesis of the rhamnose-rich LPS. These two genes, wbgA and rgpF, were mutated. The resulting mutant strains synthesized truncated rough LPS species rather than the wild-type rhamnose-rich LPS when grown with flavonoids. Based on the compositions of these purified mutant LPS species, we inferred that RgpF is responsible for adding the first one to three rhamnose residues to the flavonoid-induced LPS, whereas WbgA is necessary for the synthesis of the rest of the rhamnan O-antigen. The NGR234 homologue of lpsB, which, in other bacteria, encodes a glycosyl transferase acting early in synthesis of the core portion of LPS, was identified and also mutated. LpsB was required for all the LPS species produced by NGR234, in the presence or absence of flavonoids. Mutants (i.e., of lpsB and rgpF) that lacked any portion of the rhamnan O-antigen of the induced LPS were severely affected in their symbiotic interaction with Vigna unguiculata, whereas the NGR?wbgA mutant, although having very few rhamnose residues in its LPS, was able to elicit functional nodules.
Genotypic- and silicon (Si)-mediated differences in manganese (Mn) tolerance of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) arise from a combination of symplastic and apoplastic traits. A detailed metabolomic inspection could help to identify functional associations between genotype- and Si-mediated Mn tolerance and metabolism. Two cowpea genotypes differing in Mn tolerance (TVu 91, Mn sensitive; TVu 1987, Mn tolerant) were subjected to differential Mn and Si treatments. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS)-based metabolite profiling of leaf material was performed. Detailed evaluation of the response of metabolites was combined with gene expression and physiological analyses. After 2 d of 50 μM Mn supply TVu 91 expressed toxicity symptoms first in the form of brown spots on the second oldest trifoliate leaves. Silicon treatment suppressed symptom development in TVu 91. Despite higher concentrations of Mn in leaves of TVu 1987 compared with TVu 91, the tolerant genotype did not show symptoms. From sample cluster formation as identified by independent component analysis (ICA) of metabolite profiles it is concluded that genotypic differences accounted for the highest impact on variation in metabolite pools, followed by Mn and Si treatments in one of two experiments. Analysis of individual metabolites corroborated a comparable minor role for Mn and Si treatments in the modulation of individual metabolites. Mapping individual metabolites differing significantly between genotypes onto biosynthetic pathways and gene expression studies on the corresponding pathways suggest that genotypic Mn tolerance is a consequence of differences (i) in the apoplastic binding capacity; (ii) in the capability to maintain a high antioxidative state; and (iii) in the activity of shikimate and phenylpropanoid metabolism.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is an important crop in arid and semi-arid regions and is a good model for studying drought tolerance. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are known to play critical roles in plant stress responses, but drought-associated miRNAs have not been identified in cowpea. In addition, it is not understood how miRNAs might contribute to different capacities of drought tolerance in different cowpea genotypes. We generated deep sequencing small RNA reads from two cowpea genotypes (CB46, drought-sensitive, and IT93K503-1, drought-tolerant) that grew under well-watered and drought stress conditions. We mapped small RNA reads to cowpea genomic sequences and identified 157 miRNA genes that belong to 89 families. Among 44 drought-associated miRNAs, 30 were upregulated in drought condition and 14 were downregulated. Although miRNA expression was in general consistent in two genotypes, we found that nine miRNAs were predominantly or exclusively expressed in one of the two genotypes and that 11 miRNAs were drought-regulated in only one genotype, but not the other. These results suggest that miRNAs may play important roles in drought tolerance in cowpea and may be a key factor in determining the level of drought tolerance in different cowpea genotypes.
Al-activated organic acid anion efflux from roots is an important Al resistance mechanism in plants. We have conducted homologous cloning and isolated Vigna umbellata multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (VuMATE), a gene encoding a de novo citrate transporter from rice bean. Al treatment up-regulated VuMATE expression in the root apex, but neither in the mature root region nor in the leaf. The degree of up-regulation of VuMATE was both partially Al concentration and time dependent, consistent with the delay in the onset of the Al-induced citrate efflux in rice bean roots. While La(3+) moderately induced VuMATE expression, Cd(2+) and Cu(2+) did not induce the expression. Electrophysiological analysis of Xenopus oocytes expressing VuMATE indicated this transporter can mediate significant anion efflux across the plasma membrane. [(14) C]citrate efflux experiments in oocytes demonstrated that VuMATE is a H(+) -dependent citrate transporter. In addition, expression of VuMATE in transgenic tomato resulted in increased Al resistance, which correlated with an enhanced citrate efflux. Taken together, these findings suggest that VuMATE is a functional homolog of the known citrate transporters in sorghum, barley, maize and Arabidopsis. The similarities and differences of all the known citrate transporters associated with Al stress in the MATE family are also discussed.
Plants are sessile organisms subjected to many environmental adversities. For their survival they must sense and respond to biotic and abiotic stresses efficiently. During this process, protein kinases are essential in the perception of environmental stimuli, triggering signaling cascades. Kinases are among the largest and most important gene families for biotechnological purposes, bringing many challenges to the bioinformaticians due to the combination of conserved domains besides diversified regions. Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is an important legume that is adapted to different agroclimatic conditions, including drought, humidity and a range of temperatures. For this crop, the association of the SuperSAGE method with high-throughput sequencing technology would generate reliable transcriptome profiles with millions of tags counted and statistically analyzed. An approach evaluating biotic and abiotic stresses was carried out generating over 13 million cowpea SuperSAGE tags available from leaves/roots of plants under abiotic (mechanical injury and salinity) or biotic (CABMV, Cowpea aphid born mosaic virus) stresses. The annotation and identification of tags linked by BlastN to previously well described ESTs, allowed the posterior identification of kinases. The annotation efficiency depended on the database used, with the KEGG figuring as a good source for annotated ESTs especially when complemented by an independent Gene Ontology categorization, as well as the Gene Index using selected species. The use of different approaches allowed the identification of 1,350 kinase candidates considering biotic libraries and 2,268 regarding abiotic libraries, based on a combination of both, adequate descriptions and GO terms. Additional searches in kinase specific databases allowed the identification of a relatively low number of additional kinases, uncovering the lack of kinase databases for non-model organisms, especially plants. Concerning the kinase families, a total of 713 potential kinases were classified into 13 families of the CMGC and STE groups. Concerning the differentially expressed kinases, 169 of the 713 potential kinases were identified (p < 0.05), 100 up- and 69 down-regulated when comparing distinct libraries, allowing the generation of a comprehensive panel of the differentially expressed kinases under biotic and abiotic stresses in a non-model plant as cowpea.
Sarcolipin (SLN) inhibits sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA) pumps. To evaluate the physiological significance of SLN in skeletal muscle, we compared muscle contractility and SERCA activity between Sln-null and wild-type mice. SLN protein expression in wild-type mice was abundant in soleus and red gastrocnemius (RG), low in extensor digitorum longus (EDL), and absent from white gastrocnemius (WG). SERCA activity rates were increased in soleus and RG, but not in EDL or WG, from Sln-null muscles, compared with wild type. No differences were seen between wild-type and Sln-null EDL muscles in force-frequency curves or maximum rates of force development (+dF/dt). Maximum relaxation rates (-dF/dt) of EDL were higher in Sln-null than wild type across a range of submaximal stimulation frequencies, but not during a twitch or peak tetanic contraction. For soleus, no differences were seen between wild type and Sln-null in peak tetanic force or +dF/dt; however, force-frequency curves showed that peak force during a twitch and 10-Hz contraction was lower in Sln-null. Changes in the soleus force-frequency curve corresponded with faster rates of force relaxation at nearly all stimulation frequencies in Sln-null compared with wild type. Repeated tetanic stimulation of soleus caused increased (-dF/dt) in wild type, but not in Sln-null. No compensatory responses were detected in analysis of other Ca(2+) regulatory proteins using Western blotting and immunohistochemistry or myosin heavy chain expression using immunofluorescence. These results show that 1) SLN regulates Ca(2+)-ATPase activity thereby regulating contractile kinetics in at least some skeletal muscles, 2) the functional significance of SLN is graded to the endogenous SLN expression level, and 3) SLN inhibitory effects on SERCA function are relieved in response to repeated contractions thus enhancing relaxation rates.
Extreme resistance of Arlington line cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) to Cowpea mosaic virus (CPMV) is under control of a dominant locus designated Cpa. We transiently expressed, using Tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV) vectors and Agrobacterium tumefaciens, in nearly isogenic Cpa/Cpa and cpa/cpa cowpea lines, sequences from RNA1, the larger of two CPMV genomic RNAs. Activation of a Cpa-specific response mapped to the CPMV 24K protease (24KPro). Mutational analysis of the 24KPro gene implicated protease activity, rather than 24KPro structure, in Cpa-mediated recognition of CPMV invasion. A 24KPro with alanine replacing the active site cysteine [24KPro(C-A)], but not wildtype 24KPro, accumulated after agroinfiltration of the corresponding binary vector constructions into Cpa/Cpa cowpea. In cpa/cpa cowpea, both protease versions accumulated, with 24KPro(C-A) in greater abundance. Thus, enzymically active 24KPro was recognized by both cowpea genotypes, but in Cpa/Cpa cowpea the suppression of 24KPro accumulation was very strong, consistent with extreme resistance to CPMV.
Mungbean, Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek is an important pulse crop that is widely cultivated in semi- arid tropics. The crop is attacked by various soil-borne pathogens like Rhizoctonia solani, which causes dry rot disease and seriously affects its productivity. Earlier we characterized the non-expressor of pathogenesis related gene-1(BjNPR1) of mustard, Brassica juncea, the counterpart of AtNPR1 of Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we transformed mungbean with BjNPR1 via Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Because of the recalcitrant nature of mungbean, the effect of some factors like Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains (GV2260 and LBA4404), pH, L: -cysteine and tobacco leaf extract was tested in transformation. The transgenic status of 15 plants was confirmed by PCR using primers for nptII. The independent integration of T-DNA in transgenic plants was analyzed by Southern hybridization with an nptII probe and the expression of BjNPR1 was confirmed by RT-PCR. Some of the T(0) plants were selected for detached leaf anti-fungal bioassay using the fungus Rhizoctonia solani, which showed moderate to high level of resistance depending on the level of expression of BjNPR1. The seedling bioassay of transgenic T(2) plants indicated resistance against dry rot disease caused by R. solani.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis and dysplasia in one or more lineages, produce life-threatening cytopenias and progress to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Growing evidence suggests that targeting epigenetic mechanisms improves MDS/AML pathophysiology. This review provides an understanding of studies investigating novel agents published up to January 2011 aimed at normalizing and monitoring the epigenetic profile of the MDS cancer cell. The authors discuss how non-intensive epigenetic therapy can 're-programme' gene expression patterns of abnormal hematopoiesis in MDS. Recently FDA-approved DNA-methyltransferase inhibitors, 5-azacytidine and 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine or decitabine, represent frontline nonablative treatments, while combinations with histone deacetylase inhibitors show promising synergism in preclinical and Phase I/II trials in tumor suppressor gene re-expression and overall survival. Additional epigenetic mechanisms including non-encoding transcripts with inhibitory posttranscriptional regulatory functions, such as microRNAs, though not fully understood, present novel molecular and clinical implications in these disorders. Alongside current single-agent epigenetic regimens, combination therapies represent potentially effective options for intermediate-2 and high-risk MDS. Methylation profiles and gene mutation predictors provide promising areas of development for monitoring MDS disease progression and outcome, while targeting microRNA dysregulation represents an important therapeutic goal.
Macrophomina phaseolina is an emerging and devastating fungal pathogen that causes significant losses in crop production under high temperatures and drought stress. An increasing number of disease incidence reports highlight the wide prevalence of the pathogen around the world and its contribution toward crop yield suppression. In cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L) Walp.], limited sources of low-level host resistance have been identified, the genetic basis of which is unknown. In this study we report on the identification of strong sources of host resistance to M. phaseolina and the genetic mapping of putative resistance loci on a cowpea genetic map comprised of gene-derived single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). Nine quantitative trait loci (QTLs), accounting for between 6.1 and 40.0% of the phenotypic variance (R2), were identified using plant mortality data taken over three years in field experiments and disease severity scores taken from two greenhouse experiments. Based on annotated genic SNPs as well as synteny with soybean (Glycine max) and Medicago truncatula, candidate resistance genes were found within mapped QTL intervals. QTL Mac-2 explained the largest percent R2 and was identified in three field and one greenhouse experiments where the QTL peak co-located with a SNP marker derived from a pectin esterase inhibitor encoding gene. Maturity effects on the expression of resistance were indicated by the co-location of Mac-6 and Mac-7 QTLs with maturity-related senescence QTLs Mat-2 and Mat-1, respectively. Homologs of the ELF4 and FLK flowering genes were found in corresponding syntenic soybean regions. Only three Macrophomina resistance QTLs co-located with delayed drought-induced premature senescence QTLs previously mapped in the same population, suggesting that largely different genetic mechanisms mediate cowpea response to drought stress and Macrophomina infection. Effective sources of host resistance were identified in this study. QTL mapping and synteny analysis identified genomic loci harboring resistance factors and revealed candidate genes with potential for further functional genomics analysis.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) is a unique species in its ability to fix atmospheric nitrogen, with early maturity, and relatively good drought resistance. We used 454 sequencing technology for transcriptome sequencing. A total of 150 159 and 142 993 reads produced 5 254 and 6 374 large contigs (≥ 500 bp) with an average length of 833 and 853 for Sunhwa and Jangan, respectively. Functional annotation to known sequences yielded 41.34% and 41.74% unigenes for Jangan and Sunhwa. A higher number of simple sequence repeat (SSR) motifs was identified in Jangan (1 630) compared with that of Sunhwa (1 334). A similar SSR distribution pattern was observed in both varieties. A total of 8 249 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and indels with 2 098 high-confidence candidates were identified in the two mungbean varieties. The average distance between individual SNPs was approximately 860 bp. Our report demonstrates the utility of transcriptomic data for implementing a functional annotation and development of genetic markers. We also provide large resource sequence data for mungbean improvement programs.
Rhizosphere microorganisms possessing phytase activity are considered important for rendering phytate-P available to plants. In the present study, Citrobacter braakii phytase gene (appA) was over-expressed in rhizobacteria possessing plant growth promoting (PGP) traits for increasing their potential as bioinoculants. AppA was cloned under the lac promoter in the broad host-range expression vector pBBR1MCS2. Transformation of the recombinant construct pCBappA resulted in high constitutive phytase activity in all of the eight rhizobacterial strains belonging to genera Pantoea, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Pseudomonas (two strains), Rhizobium (two strains) and Ensifer that were studied. Transgenic rhizobacterial strains were found to display varying level of phytase activity, ranging from 10 folds to 538 folds higher than the corresponding control strains. Transgenic derivative of Pseudomonas fluorescens CHA0, a well-characterized plant growth promoting rhizobacterium, showed highest expression of phytase (~8 U/ mg) activity in crude extracts. Although all transformants showed high phytase activity, rhizobacteria having ability to secrete organic acid, showed significantly higher release of P from Ca-phytate in buffered minimal media. AppA over-expressing rhizobacteria showed increased P content, dry weight (shoot) or shoot/ root ratio of mung bean (Vigna radiata) plants, to different extents, when grown in semi solid agar (SSA) medium containing Na-phytate or Ca-phytate as the P sources. This is the first report of over-expression of phytase in rhizobacterial strains and its exploitation for plant growth enhancement.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata L. cv. Tainan no. 5) starch branching enzyme I (SBE, EC 2.4.1.18) cDNA, VrsbeI, was cloned, and its expression was characterized. Conserved regions of the family B SBE were used to amplify a full length cDNA of 2208 bp. Phylogeny was analyzed, and the partial 3D structure and functional features were predicted. Catalytic residues were identified in the (α/β)(8)-fold, and a unique loop from F365 to F376 between β3/α3 was located. Gene expression of VrsbeI in seeds during growth showed that the transcript appeared from week 1 and increased substantially at week 3-4. It was cloned into the pET30 vector and expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3) pLysS cells as a soluble recombinant protein. The affinity-purified recombinant VrSBEI exhibited a specific activity of 314.6 U/mg as an active enzyme with 114-fold activity enrichment from the crude extract.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenous, noncoding, short RNAs directly involved in regulating gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. High conservation of miRNAs in plant provides the foundation for identification of new miRNAs in other plant species through homology alignment. Here, previous known plant miRNAs were BLASTed against the Expressed Sequence Tag (EST) and Genomic Survey Sequence (GSS) databases of Vigna unguiculata, and according to a series of filtering criteria, a total of 47 miRNAs belonging to 13 miRNA families were identified, and 30 potential target genes of them were subsequently predicted, most of which seemed to encode transcription factors or enzymes participating in regulation of development, growth, metabolism, and other physiological processes. Overall, our findings lay the foundation for further researches of miRNAs function in Vigna unguiculata.
The locus Rk confers resistance against several species of root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp., RKN) in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Based on histological and reactive oxygen species (ROS) profiles, Rk confers a delayed but strong resistance mechanism without a hypersensitive reaction-mediated cell death process, which allows nematode development but blocks reproduction. Responses to M. incognita infection in roots of resistant genotype CB46 and a susceptible near-isogenic line (null-Rk) were investigated using a soybean Affymetrix GeneChip expression array at 3 and 9 days post-inoculation (dpi). At 9 dpi 552 genes were differentially expressed in incompatible interactions (infected resistant tissue compared with non-infected resistant tissue) and 1,060 genes were differentially expressed in compatible interactions (infected susceptible tissue compared with non-infected susceptible tissue). At 3 dpi the differentially expressed genes were 746 for the incompatible and 623 for the compatible interactions. When expression between infected resistant and susceptible genotypes was compared, 638 and 197 genes were differentially expressed at 9 and 3 dpi, respectively. In comparing the differentially expressed genes in response to nematode infection, a greater number and proportion of genes were down-regulated in the resistant than in the susceptible genotype, whereas more genes were up-regulated in the susceptible than in the resistant genotype. Gene ontology based functional categorization revealed that the typical defense response was partially suppressed in resistant roots, even at 9 dpi, allowing nematode juvenile development. Differences in ROS concentrations, induction of toxins and other defense related genes seem to play a role in this unique resistance mechanism.
In this work, the role of the rkpU and rkpJ genes in the production of the K-antigen polysaccharides (KPS) and in the symbiotic capacity of Sinorhizobium fredii HH103, a broad host-range rhizobial strain able to nodulate soybean and many other legumes, was studied. The rkpJ- and rkpU-encoded products are orthologous to Escherichia coli proteins involved in capsule export. S. fredii HH103 mutant derivatives were contructed in both genes. To our knowledge, this is the first time that the role of rkpU in KPS production has been studied in rhizobia. Both rkpJ and rkpU mutants were unable to produce KPS. The rkpU derivative also showed alterations in its lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Neither KPS production nor rkpJ and rkpU expression was affected by the presence of the flavonoid genistein. Soybean (Glycine max) plants inoculated with the S. fredii HH103 rkpU and rkpJ mutants showed reduced nodulation and clear symptoms of nitrogen starvation. However, neither the rkpJ nor the rkpU mutants were significantly impaired in their symbiotic interaction with cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Thus, we demonstrate for the first time to our knowledge the involvement of the rkpU gene in rhizobial KPS production and also show that the symbiotic relevance of the S. fredii HH103 KPS depends on the specific bacterium-legume interaction.
Using Phaseoleae defensins available in databases, a putative defensin gene was isolated in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) and cloned from genomic cowpea DNA. The putative mature defensin sequence displays the characteristic defensins residues arrangement, secondary and tertiary structures were predicted and splicing analysis was performed. Using RT-PCR, defensin expression and differences in response to biotic stimuli between infected and non infected plants were tested.
We investigated the effects of azuki bean (Vigna angularis) seed coats (ABSC), which contain polyphenols, on the vascular oxidative stress and inflammation associated with hypertension. Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and control normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were divided into 2 groups each. One group was fed 0% ABSC; the other, a 1.0% ABSC-containing diet. Tail systolic blood pressure (SBP) was examined throughout ABSC treatment. At 8 weeks, vascular superoxide (O(2)(-)) production was measured by lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence. mRNA expressions of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase subunits, macrophage chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and its receptor C-C chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) in the aorta were analyzed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Protein expressions of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) were determined by western blotting. Polyphenol-containing ABSC suppressed the elevation of SBP throughout the treatment period. The NADPH-stimulated O(2)(-) level decreased significantly in the aorta of ABSC-treated SHR compared with the level of untreated SHR. The p47phox and Nox4 mRNA expression increased significantly in untreated SHR compared with that in WKY rats. Conversely, the level of p47phox mRNA was significantly lower in ABSC-treated SHR than in untreated SHR. The protein abundance of both iNOS and COX-2 was significantly decreased in the aorta of the ABSC-treated SHR compared with this abundance in untreated SHR. The MCP-1 and CCR2 mRNA expressions increased in untreated SHR, and these levels were significantly lower in ABSC-treated SHR. In conclusion, our results suggested that polyphenol-containing ABSC could attenuate vascular oxidative stress and inflammation during the progression of hypertension, and this may lead to an improvement in hypertension.
In this report a full-length cDNA, SPCP2, which encoded a putative papain-like cysteine protease was isolated from senescent leaves of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas). SPCP2 contained 1101 nucleotides (366 amino acids) in its open reading frame, and exhibited high amino acid sequence identities (ca. 68% to 83%) with plant cysteine proteases, including Actinidia deliciosa, Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica oleracea, Phaseolus vulgaris, Pisum sativa, Vicia faba, Vicia sativa and Vigna mungo. RT-PCR analysis showed that SPCP2 gene expression was enhanced significantly in natural senescent leaves and in dark-, abscisic acid- (ABA-), jasmonic acid- (JA-) and ethephon-induced senescent leaves, but was almost not detected in mature green leaves, stems, and roots. Transgenic Arabidopsis with constitutive SPCP2 expression exhibited earlier floral transition from vegetative to reproductive growth, higher percentage of incompletely developed siliques per plant, reduced average fresh weight and lower germination percentage of seed, and higher salt and drought stress tolerance compared to those of control. Based on these results we conclude that sweet potato papain-like cysteine protease, SPCP2, is a functional senescence-associated gene, and its expression causes altered developmental characteristics and stress responses in transgenic Arabidopsis plants.
Endogenous trypsin inhibitors are synthesized, stored, and secreted by pancreatic acinar cells. It is believed that they play a protective role in the pancreas by inhibiting trypsin within the cell should trypsinogen become prematurely activated. Rodent trypsin inhibitors are highly homologous to human serine protease inhibitor Kazal-type 1 (SPINK1). The mouse has one pancreatic trypsin inhibitor known as SPINK3, and the rat has two trypsin inhibitors commonly known as pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitors I and II (PSTI-I and -II). Rat PSTI-I is a 61-amino acid protein that shares 65% sequence identity with mouse SPINK3. It was recently demonstrated that mice with genetic deletion of the Spink3 gene (Spink3(-/-)) do not survive beyond 15 days and lack normal pancreata because of pancreatic autophagy. We have shown that targeted transgenic expression of the rat Psti1 gene to acinar cells in mice [TgN(Psti1)] protects mice against caerulein-induced pancreatitis. To determine whether the autophagic phenotype and lethality in Spink3(-/-) mice were due to lack of pancreatic trypsin inhibitor, we conducted breeding studies with Spink3(+/-) heterozygous mice and TgN(Psti1) mice. We observed that, whereas Spink3(+/+), Spink3(+/-), and Spink3(-/-)/TgN(Psti1) mice had similar survival rates, no Spink3(-/-) mice survived longer than 1 wk. The level of expression of SPINK3 protein in acini was reduced in heterozygote mice compared with wild-type mice. Furthermore, endogenous trypsin inhibitor capacity was reduced in the pancreas of heterozygote mice compared with wild-type or knockout mice rescued with the rat Psti1 gene. Surprisingly, the lesser amount of SPINK3 present in the pancreata of heterozygote mice did not predispose animals to increased susceptibility to caerulein-induced acute pancreatitis. We propose that a threshold level of expression is sufficient to protect against pancreatitis.
Defensin, thionin and lipid transfer protein (LTP) gene families, which antimicrobial activity has an attractive use in protein engineering and transgenic production of agronomical important plants, have been here functionally reviewed. Also, a transcriptional overview of a set of plant SuperSAGE libraries and analysis looking for 26 bp tags possibly annotated for those families is presented. Tags differentially expressed (p = 0.05) or constitutively transcribed were identified from leaves or roots SuperSAGE libraries from important Brazilian plant species [cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.), soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) and modern sugarcane hybrids (Saccharum spp.)] submitted to abiotic [salt (100 mM NaCl) or drought] or biotic stresses [fungus inoculation (Phakopsora pachyrhizi; Asiatic Soyben Rust phytopathogen)]. The diverse transcriptional patterns observed, probably related to the variable range of targets and functions involved, could be the first step to unravel the antimicrobial peptide world and the plant stress response relationship. Moreover, SuperSAGE opens the opportunity to find some SNPs or even rare transcript that could be important on plant stress resistance mechanisms. Putative defensin or LTP identified by SuperSAGE following a specific plant treatment or physiological condition could be useful for future use in genetic improvement of plants.
Glutathione (GSH) is an abundant metabolite and a major antioxidant in plant cells. However, in the Leguminosae, homoglutathione (hGSH) may replace glutathione (GSH) partially or completely. To date, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) has been considered a non-hGSH-producing species, and no hGSHS cDNA has been isolated. Here we report on the cloning of a full-length cDNA coding for a hGSHS (EC 6.3.2.23) and the cloning of a partial cDNA coding for a putative glutathione synthetase (GSHS; EC 6.3.2.3) in cowpea leaf extracts. These cDNAs possess, respectively, the leucine/proline hGSHS signature and the alanine/alanine GSHS signature at the 3' end. Expression analysis showed a significant up-regulation of hGSHS during progressive drought stress that could be directly related to the drought tolerance of the cowpea cultivar used, while GSHS was mainly constitutively expressed. Nevertheless, quantification of low-molecular-weight thiols confirmed the previous findings that cowpea is essentially a GSH producing plant, as no hGSH was detected in the leaves. These findings raise new questions regarding the function, activity and substrate specificity of the cloned hGSHS cDNA. These questions are discussed.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) alternative oxidase is encoded by a small multigene family (Aox1, 2a and 2b) that is orthologous to the soybean Aox family. Like most of the identified Aox genes in plants, VuAox1 and VuAox2 consist of 4 exons interrupted by 3 introns. Alignment of the orthologous Aox genes revealed high identity of exons and intron variability, which is more prevalent in Aox1. In order to determine Aox gene expression in V. unguiculata, a steady-state analysis of transcripts involved in seed development (flowers, pods and dry seeds) and germination (soaked seeds) was performed and systemic co-expression of VuAox1 and VuAox2b was observed during germination. The analysis of Aox transcripts in leaves from seedlings under different stress conditions (cold, PEG, salicylate and H2O2 revealed stress-induced co-expression of both VuAox genes. Transcripts of VuAox2a and 2b were detected in all control seedlings, which was not the case for VuAox1 mRNA. Estimation of the primary transcript lengths of V. unguiculata and soybean Aox genes showed an intron length reduction for VuAox1 and 2b, suggesting that the two genes have converged in transcribed sequence length. Indeed, a bioinformatics analysis of VuAox1 and 2b promoters revealed a conserved region related to a cis-element that is responsive to oxidative stress. Taken together, the data provide evidence for co-expression of Aox1 and Aox2b in response to stress and also during the early phase of seed germination. The dual nature of VuAox2b expression (constitutive and induced) suggests that the constitutive Aox2b gene of V. unguiculata has acquired inducible regulatory elements.
The structure and function of untranslated mRNA leader sequences and their role in controlling gene expression remains poorly understood. Previous research has suggested that the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) of the Vigna radiata aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase synthase (VR-ACS1) gene may function as a translational enhancer in plants. To test such hypothesis we compared the translation enhancing properties of three different 5'UTRs; those from the VR-ACS1, the chlorophyll a/b binding gene from petunia (Cab22L; a known translational enhancer) and the Vigna radiata pectinacetylesterase gene (PAE; used as control). Identical constructs in which the coding region of the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene was fused to each of the three 5'UTRs and placed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter were prepared. Transient expression assays in tobacco cell cultures and mung bean leaves showed that the VR-ACS1 and Cab22L 5'UTRs directed higher levels of GUS activity than the PAE 5'UTR. Analysis of transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings, as well as different tissues from mature plants, confirmed that while transcript levels were equivalent for all constructs, the 5'UTRs from the VR-ACS1 and Cab22L genes can increase GUS activity twofold to fivefold compared to the PAE 5'UTR, therefore confirming the translational enhancing properties of the VR-ACS1 5'UTR.
The epitope presentation system for ectodomain of M2-protein of influenza A virus (M2e) based on Cowpea Mosaic Virus (CPMV) was constructed for expression in plants Vigna unguiculata. CPMV is widely used as a vector for production of immunogenic chimeric virus particles (CVPs) bearing epitopes of different infectious human and animal pathogens. To produce chimeric CPMV virus particles in plants, two binary vectors were constructed bearing modified gene coding for S-coat protein of CPMV with insertions of M2e epitopes of human influenza and bird influenza viruses. Antigenic and immunogenic properties of CVPs obtained were investigated in mice immunization experiments and it was shown that they can induce anti-M2e IgG production and partial protection mice against challenge with low doses of flu virus. However, low infectivity and immunogenicity of CPMV chimeric particles indicate the need for further optimization of plant virus-based systems for M2e-epitopes presentation to use plants as a possible source of flu vaccines.
Plant aspartic proteases are of recent origin with their physiological significance in crucial processes emerging. Reports on the significance of aspartic protease inhibitors and their endogenous proteases in seeds of plants are scanty. This paper reports the purification of an aspartic protease inhibitor from the seeds of Vigna radiata, its control of the endogenous aspartic protease and their subsequent role in the early germination events. The role of the aspartic protease inhibitor and the enzyme in initial stages of germination of V. radiata has been tracked by differential timed expression and germination assays. The expression pattern revealed maximum expression of the inhibitor in the dormant seeds while the enzyme was predominant in the germinating seeds. Their expression patterns and interactions indicate their significance in initiation of germination. The expression of other classes of proteases was monitored during germination and a model predicting the events occurring during proteolysis of the storage protein in germination is hypothesized. The inhibitor was a linear, hydrophobic, pH stable and thermostable peptide with molecular weight of 1660 Da. The purified inhibitor showed a pI of 4.36 with the sequence as AEIYN KDGNK LDLYG. The inhibitor was found to be stable in a broad range of pH from 2 to 10 with an optimum of 3.0. The half-life of VrAPI at 100 degrees C was 30 min whereas the maximum activity was observed at 37 degrees C. The initial kinetic analysis of the inhibitor against the endogenous protease showed an IC(50) value of 11 nM while the value of the inhibition rate constant K(i) was 34 x 10(-9)M.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are commonly found in plants as natural by-products of the metabolism but their production is greatly enhanced under abiotic stresses. Particular metabolites and enzymes belonging to the ascorbate-glutathione cycle are able to scavenge these deleterious molecules and modulate the cellular redox-status. In the March issue of Journal of Plant Physiology, we have shown that drought stress induces a raise in glutathione reductase (GR) activity and gene expression that could be related to the intensity of the drought treatment and the drought susceptibility of the bean cultivar (cowpea and/or common bean). In the present addendum we show new data on GR specific activity during progressive drought stress and recovery of the drought-susceptible bean cultivar which can be related to the previously found dual-targeted GR gene expression. Furthermore, since in leguminous plants homoglutathione (hGSH) is generally the most abundant low molecular weight thiol form, we discuss on the occurrence of a (homo)glutathione reductase activity in beans.
Cultured cells of Sinorhizobium sp. NGR234 produce an abundance of capsular polysaccharides, or K antigens; however, cells that are cultured in the presence of apigenin, a nod gene inducer, exhibited a significant reduction in K-antigen production. The flavonoid-induced modulation in capsule production appeared to be related to the phase-shift changes associated with bacteroid differentiation. Therefore, the polysaccharides were extracted from Sinorhizobium sp. NGR234 bacteroids recovered from Vigna unguiculata cv Red Caloona root nodules, and subsequent analyses showed that the bacteroid extracts were virtually devoid of K-antigen. Polysaccharide extracts from two nodulation mutants cultured in the presence of apigenin were then analyzed, and the results showed that the flavonoid-inducible decrease in K-antigen production is y4gM- and nodD1-dependent.
We investigated the possibility of introducing exogenous T cell receptor (TCR) genes into T cells by lentiviral transduction, without prior stimulation of endogenous TCR with anti-CD3. TCR transfer is used to impose tumor antigen specificity on recipient T cells, but sustained activation required for retroviral transduction may affect the clinical efficacy of engineered T cells. Cytokine stimulation makes T cells susceptible to lentiviral transduction in the absence of TCR triggering, but this advantage has never been exploited for TCR transfer. Autoimmune diseases are a source of high-affinity TCRs specific for self/tumor antigens. We selected, from a patient with vitiligo, a Mart1-specific TCR based on intrinsic interchain pairing properties and functional avidity. After lentiviral transduction of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, preferential pairing of exogenous alpha and beta chains was observed, together with effective recognition of Mart1(+) melanoma cells. We tested transduction efficiency on various T cell subsets prestimulated with interleukin (IL)-2, IL-7, IL-15, and IL-21 (alone or in combination). Both naive and unfractionated CD8(+) T cells could be transduced without requiring endogenous TCR triggering. IL-7 plus IL-15 was the most powerful combination, allowing high levels of transgene expression without inducing T cell differentiation (34 +/- 5% Mart1-TCR(+) cells in naive CD8(+) and 16 +/- 6% in unfractionated CD8(+)). Cytokine-prestimulated, Mart1-redirected naive and unfractionated CD8(+) cells expanded better than CD3-CD28-prestimulated counterparts in response to both peptide-pulsed antigen-presenting cells and Mart1(+) melanoma cells. This strategy allows the generation of tumor-specific T cells encompassing truly naive T cells, endowed with an intact proliferative potential and a preserved differentiation stage.
Many microRNAs (miRNAs), posttranscriptional regulators of numerous cellular processes and developmental events, are downregulated in tumors. However, their role in tumorigenesis remains largely unknown. In this work, we examined the role of the muscle-specific miRNAs miR-1 and miR-206 in human rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS), a soft tissue sarcoma thought to arise from skeletal muscle progenitors. We have shown that miR-1 was barely detectable in primary RMS of both the embryonal and alveolar subtypes and that both miR-1 and miR-206 failed to be induced in RMS cell lines upon serum deprivation. Moreover, reexpression of miR-206 in RMS cells promoted myogenic differentiation and blocked tumor growth in xenografted mice by switching the global mRNA expression profile to one that resembled mature muscle. Finally, we showed that the product of the MET proto-oncogene, the Met tyrosine-kinase receptor, which is overexpressed in RMS and has been implicated in RMS pathogenesis, was downregulated in murine satellite cells by miR-206 at the onset of normal myogenesis. Thus, failure of posttranscriptional modulation may underlie Met overexpression in RMS and other types of cancer. We propose that tissue-specific miRNAs such as miR-1 and miR-206, given their ability to modulate hundreds of transcripts and to act as nontoxic differentiating agents, may override the genomic heterogeneity of solid tumors and ultimately hold greater therapeutic potential than single gene-directed drugs.
PhyR is an unusual type of response regulator consisting of a receiver domain and an extracytoplasmic function (ECF) sigma factor-like domain. It was recently described as a master regulator of general stress response in Methylobacterium extorquens. Orthologues of this regulator are present in essentially all free-living Alphaproteobacteria. In most of them, phyR is genetically closely linked to a gene encoding an ECF sigma factor. Here, we investigate the role of these two regulators in the soybean symbiont Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110. Using deletion mutants and phenotypic assays, we showed that PhyR and the ECF sigma factor sigma(EcfG) are involved in heat shock and desiccation resistance upon carbon starvation. Both mutants had symbiotic defects on the plant hosts Glycine max (soybean) and Vigna radiata (mungbean). They induced fewer nodules than the wild type and these nodules were smaller, less pigmented, and their specific nitrogenase activity was drastically reduced 2 or 3 weeks after inoculation. Four weeks after infection, soybean nodule development caught up to a large extent whereas most mungbean nodules remained defective even 5 weeks after infection. Remarkably, both mutants triggered aberrant nodules on the different host plants with ectopically emerging roots. Microarray analysis revealed that PhyR and sigma(EcfG) control congruent regulons suggesting both regulators are part of the same signalling cascade. This finding was further substantiated by in vitro protein-protein interaction studies which are in line with a partner-switching mechanism controlling gene regulation triggered by phosphorylation of PhyR. The large number of genes of unknown function present in the PhyR/sigma(EcfG) regulon and the conspicuous symbiotic phenotype suggest that these regulators are involved in the Bradyrhizobium-legume interaction via yet undisclosed mechanisms.
Sinorhizobium fredii HH103 produces cyclic beta glucans (CG) composed of 18 to 24 glucose residues without or with 1-phosphoglycerol as the only substituent. The S. fredii HH103-Rifr cgs gene (formerly known as ndvB) was sequenced and mutated with the lacZ-gentamicin resistance cassette. Mutant SVQ562 did not produce CG, was immobile, and grew more slowly in the hypoosmotic GYM medium, but its survival in distilled water was equal to that of HH103-Rifr. Lipopolysaccharides and K-antigen polysaccharides produced by SVQ562 were not apparently altered. SVQ562 overproduced exopolysaccharides (EPS) and its exoA gene was transcribed at higher levels than in HH103-Rifr. In GYM medium, the EPS produced by SVQ562 was of higher molecular weight and carried higher levels of substituents than that produced by HH103-Rifr. The expression of the SVQ562 cgsColon, two colonslacZ fusion was influenced by the pH and the osmolarity of the growth medium. The S. fredii cgs mutants SVQ561 (carrying cgs::Omega) and SVQ562 only formed pseudonodules on Glycine max (determinate nodules) and on Glycyrrhiza uralensis (indeterminate nodules). Although nodulation factors were detected in SVQ561 cultures, none of the cgs mutants induced any macroscopic response in Vigna unguiculata roots. Thus, the nodulation process induced by S. fredii cgs mutants is aborted at earlier stages in V. unguiculata than in Glycine max.
In the present study attempts have been made to characterize urease expression in slow growing Bradyrhizobium strains TAL442 and MO5 which are endosymbionts of green gram (Vigna radiata (L.)Wilczek). It was found that urease activity in vegetative cells of both the strains was inducible unlike their fast growing counterparts. Mode of regulation in TAL442 was governed by presence of ammonia. Urease expression was also detectable in bacteroids of both the strains which was not influenced by presence of external nickel chloride in high concentration, a situation detrimental to the vegetative cells.
Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp., is an important warm-season legume grown primarily in the semi-arid tropics. The majority of cowpea is grown by subsistence farmers in West and Central sub-Saharan Africa, where its grain and leaves are valued as human food and its stover is used for animal forage. Like all crop plants, cowpea is subject to yield losses resulting from a variety of biotic and abiotic stresses. Among the important biotic constraints to cowpea production is parasitism by the root hemiparasitic weeds Striga gesnerioides (Willd.) [witchweed] and Alectra vogelii (Benth.). At least seven races of S. gesnerioides have been identified within the cowpea-growing regions of West Africa, based on host differential response and genetic diversity analysis. Several race-specific resistance genes have been identified and located to one of two linkage groups (LG1 and LG6) of the current cowpea genetic map. Molecular markers associated with race-specific resistance genes have been identified, and several sequence-confirmed amplified regions (SCARs) have been developed for use in marker-assisted selection and breeding strategies for rapid cowpea improvement. The mechanism of race-specific resistance in the cowpea-Striga interaction has also been examined, with several genes involved in phytohormone and general disease resistance signaling transduction observed to be differentially expressed in resistant and susceptible phenotypes. Results suggest that PR5 expression may be a useful marker of Striga infection, and that salicylic acid signaling appears to play a role in the cowpea-Striga interaction.
Full-length starch branching enzyme II (SBE, EC 2.4.1.18) cDNA from mungbean ( Vigna radiata L. cv. Tainan no. 5), VrsbeII, was cloned, characterized, and expressed as an active enzyme in Escherichia coli . Gene-specific primers first amplified an internal cDNA by reverse transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), followed by obtaining 5' and 3' fragments by RT-PCR and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). VrsbeII possesses a complete open reading frame (ORF) of 2571 bp, and the deduced polypeptide includes the common catalytic (beta/alpha)(8)-barrel domain and conserved regions of the alpha-amylase family. Phylogenetic analysis classified VrsbeII into SBE family A. Its partial 3D structure and functional features were predicted. VrsbeII has a shorter N-terminal among SBEs; however, two 6 bp (CCAGTT) direct repeat sequences (DRS) were found. A 24 bp shortened VrsbeII at the 3' end, skipping one DRS, was ligated into pET21b vector and expressed as His(6)-rVrSBEII in E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells. The optimal expression condition for rVrSBEII was evaluated and detected by Western blot with a molecular size of 108 kDa and activity of 6.4 U/mg.
Plant growth and productivity are adversely affected by various abiotic and biotic stress factors. Despite the wealth of information on abiotic stress and stress tolerance in plants, many aspects still remain unclear. Prosopis juliflora is a hardy plant reported to be tolerant to drought, salinity, extremes of soil pH, and heavy metal stress. In this paper, we report the isolation and characterization of the complementary DNA clone for an atypical late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) protein (Pj LEA3) and its putative promoter sequence from P. juliflora. Unlike typical LEA proteins, rich in glycine, Pj LEA3 has alanine as the most abundant amino acid followed by serine and shows an average negative hydropathy. Pj LEA3 is significantly different from other LEA proteins in the NCBI database and shows high similarity to indole-3 acetic-acid-induced protein ARG2 from Vigna radiata. Northern analysis for Pj LEA3 in P. juliflora leaves under 90 mM H2O2 stress revealed up-regulation of transcript at 24 and 48 h. A 1.5-kb fragment upstream the 5' UTR of this gene (putative promoter) was isolated and analyzed in silico. The possible reasons for changes in gene expression during stress in relation to the host plant's stress tolerance mechanisms are discussed.
The objective of this study was to examine the role of root carbohydrate levels and metabolism in the waterlogging tolerance of contrasting mung bean genotypes. An experiment was conducted with two cultivated mung bean (Vigna radiata) genotypes viz., T44 (tolerant) and Pusa Baisakhi (PB) (susceptible), and a wild Vigna species Vigna luteola under pot-culture to study the physiological and molecular mechanism of waterlogging tolerance. Waterlogging resulted in decrease in relative water content (RWC), membrane stability index (MSI) in root and leaf tissues, and chlorophyll (Chl) content in leaves, while the Chl a/b ratio increased. Waterlogging-induced decline in RWC, MSI, Chl and increase in Chl a/b ratio was greater in PB than V. luteola and T44. Waterlogging caused decline in total and non-reducing sugars in all the genotypes and reducing sugars in PB, while the content of reducing sugar increased in V. luteola and T44. The pattern of variation in reducing sugar content in the 3 genotypes was parallel to sucrose synthase (SS) activity. V. luteola and T44 also showed fewer declines in total and non-reducing sugars and greater increase in reducing sugar and SS activity than PB. Activity of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) increased up to 8d of waterlogging in V. luteola and T44, while in PB a marginal increase was observed only up to 4d of treatment. Gene expression studies done by RT-PCR in 24h waterlogged plants showed enhanced expression of ADH and SS in the roots of V. luteola and T44, while in PB there was no change in expression level in control or treated plants. PCR band products were cloned and sequenced, and partial cDNAs of 531, 626, and 667; 702, 736, and 744bp of SS and ADH, respectively were obtained. The partial cDNA sequences of cloned SS genes showed 93-100 homologies among different genotypes and with D10266, while in case of ADH the similarity was in the range of 97-100% amongst each other and with Z23170. The results suggest that the availability of sufficient sugar reserve in the roots, activity of SS to provide reducing sugars for glycolytic activity and ADH for the recycling of NADH, and for the continuation of glycolysis, could be one of the important mechanisms of waterlogging tolerance of V. radiata genotype T44 and wild species V. luteola. This was reflected in better RWC and Chl content in leaves, and membrane stability of leaf and root tissue in V. luteola and T44.
Cowpea is one of the important grain legumes. Storage pests, Callosobruchus maculatus and C. chinensis cause severe damage to the cowpea seeds during storage. We employ a highly efficient Agrobacterium-mediated cowpea transformation method for introduction of the bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) alpha-amylase inhibitor-1 (alphaAI-1) gene into a commercially important Indian cowpea cultivar, Pusa Komal and generated fertile transgenic plants. The use of constitutive expression of additional vir genes in resident pSB1 vector in Agrobacterium strain LBA4404, thiol compounds during cocultivation and a geneticin based selection system resulted in twofold increase in stable transformation frequency. Expression of alphaAI-1 gene under bean phytohemagglutinin promoter results in accumulation of alphaAI-1 in transgenic seeds. The transgenic protein was active as an inhibitor of porcine alpha-amylase in vitro. Transgenic cowpeas expressing alphaAI-1 strongly inhibited the development of C. maculatus and C. chinensis in insect bioassays.
By hypergravity treatment, the percentage of cells with transverse microtubules was decreased, while that with longitudinal microtubules was increased in azuki bean (Vigna angularis) epicotyls. The expression of genes encoding gamma-tubulin complex (VaTUG and VaGCP3) was increased transiently in response to changes in the gravitational conditions. Lanthanum and gadolinium ions, potential blockers of mechanosensitive calcium ion-permeable channels (mechanoreceptors), nullified reorientation of microtubules as well as up-regulation of expression of VaTUG and VaGCP3 by hypergravity. These results suggest that mechanoreceptors may perceive the gravity signal, which leads to a transient increase in the transcript levels of gamma-tubulin complex genes and reorientation of cortical microtubules.
We describe a novel system of exploiting the biolistic process to generate stable transgenic cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) plants. The system is based on combining the use of the herbicide imazapyr to select transformed meristematic cells after physical introduction of the mutated ahas gene (coding for a mutated acetohydroxyacid synthase, under control of the ahas 5' regulatory sequence) and a simple tissue culture protocol. The gus gene (under control of the act2 promoter) was used as a reporter gene. The transformation frequency (defined as the total number of putative transgenic plants divided by the total number of embryonic axes bombarded) was 0.90%. Southern analyses showed the presence of both ahas and gus expression cassettes in all primary transgenic plants, and demonstrated one to three integrated copies of the transgenes into the genome. The progenies (first and second generations) of all self-fertilized transgenic lines revealed the presence of the transgenes (gus and ahas) co-segregated in a Mendelian fashion. Western blot analysis revealed that the GUS protein expressed in the transgenic plants had the same mass and isoelectric point as the bacterial native protein. This is the first report of biolistic-mediated cowpea transformation in which fertile transgenic plants transferred the foreign genes to next generations following Mendelian laws.
A full-length cDNA denominated PvP5CS for Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS), an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of proline, was cloned from common bean using a candidate gene approach. PvP5CS contains an open reading frame encoding a 716 amino acid polypeptide. Sequence analysis showed that PvP5CS shares 95.1% homology in nucleotide sequence and 93.2% identity in amino acid sequence with the mothbean (Vigna aconitifolia) P5CS. The expression patterns of PvP5CS in common bean treated with drought, cold (4 degrees C), and salt (200 mM NaCl) stresses were examined using real-time quantitative PCR. These abiotic stresses caused significant up-regulation of the expression of PvP5CS in leaves. The PvP5CS mRNA transcript increased to 2.5 times the control level after 4d drought stress. A rapid up-regulation of PvP5CS, to about 16.3 times the control at 2h post-treatment was observed under salt stress. A significant increase in PvP5CS expression (11.7-fold) was detected after 2h of cold stress. The peaks of proline accumulation appeared at 8d for drought, 24h for cold and 9h for salt stress, somewhat later than the peaks of PvP5CS expression. These results suggest that PvP5CS was a stress-inducible gene regulating the accumulation of proline in plants subjected to stress. Finally, subcellular localization assays showed that the PvP5CS protein was present in the nucleus and at the plasmalemma.
Patatin-like genes have recently been cloned from several plant species and found to be involved in stress responses and development. In previous work, we have shown that a patatin-like gene encoding a galactolipid acyl hydrolase (EC 3.1.1.26) was stimulated by drought in the leaves of the tropical legume, Vigna unguiculata L. Walp. The aim of the present work was to study the expression of patatin-like genes in Arabidopsis thaliana under water deficit. Expression of six genes was studied by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction in leaves of plants submitted to progressive drought stress induced by withholding water and also in different plant organs. Three genes, designated AtPAT IIA, AtPAT IVC and AtPAT IIIA, were shown to be upregulated by water deficit but with different kinetics, while the other patatin-like genes were either constitutive or not expressed in leaves. The accumulation of transcripts of AtPAT IIA in the early stages of the drought treatment was coordinated with the upregulation of lipoxygenase and allene oxide synthase genes. AtPAT IIA expression was also induced by wounding and methyl jasmonate treatments. The in vitro lipolytic activity toward monogalactosyldiacylglycerol, digalactosyldiacylglycerol, phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylglycerol was confirmed by producing the recombinant protein ATPAT IIA in insect cells. The analysis of free fatty acid pools in drought-stressed leaves shows an increase in the relative amounts of trans-3-hexadecenoic acid at the beginning of the treatment followed by a progressive accumulation of linoleic and linolenic acids. The possible roles of AtPAT IIA in lipid signaling and membrane degradation under water deficit are discussed.
Root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.) are sedentary endoparasites with a broad host range which includes economically important crop species. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important food and fodder legume grown in many regions where root-knot nematodes are a major problem in production fields. Several sources of resistance to root-knot nematode have been identified in cowpea, including the widely used Rk gene. As part of a study to elucidate the mechanism of Rk-mediated resistance, the histological response to avirulent M. incognita feeding of a resistant cowpea cultivar CB46 was compared with a susceptible near-isogenic line (in CB46 background). Most root-knot nematode resistance mechanisms in host plants that have been examined induced a hypersensitive response (HR). However, there was no typical HR in resistant cowpea roots and nematodes were able to develop normal feeding sites similar to those in susceptible roots up to 9-14 d post inoculation (dpi). From 14-21 dpi giant cell deterioration was observed and the female nematodes showed arrested development and deterioration. Nematodes failed to reach maturity and did not initiate egg laying in resistant roots. These results confirmed that the induction of resistance is relatively late in this system. Typically in pathogen resistance HR is closely associated with an oxidative burst (OB) in infected tissue. The level of reactive oxygen species release in both compatible and incompatible reactions during early and late stages of infection was also quantified. Following a basal OB during early infection in both susceptible and resistant roots, which was also observed in mechanically wounded root tissues, no significant OB was detected up to 14 dpi, a profile consistent with the histological observations of a delayed resistance response. These results will be useful to design gene expression experiments to dissect Rk-mediated resistance at the molecular level.
Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp., is one of the most important food and forage legumes in the semi-arid tropics because of its drought tolerance and ability to grow on poor quality soils. Approximately 80% of cowpea production takes place in the dry savannahs of tropical West and Central Africa, mostly by poor subsistence farmers. Despite its economic and social importance in the developing world, cowpea remains to a large extent an underexploited crop. Among the major goals of cowpea breeding and improvement programs is the stacking of desirable agronomic traits, such as disease and pest resistance and response to abiotic stresses. Implementation of marker-assisted selection and breeding programs is severely limited by a paucity of trait-linked markers and a general lack of information on gene structure and organization. With a nuclear genome size estimated at ~620 Mb, the cowpea genome is an ideal target for reduced representation sequencing. We report here the sequencing and analysis of the gene-rich, hypomethylated portion of the cowpea genome selectively cloned by methylation filtration (MF) technology. Over 250,000 gene-space sequence reads (GSRs) with an average length of 610 bp were generated, yielding ~160 Mb of sequence information. The GSRs were assembled, annotated by BLAST homology searches of four public protein annotation databases and four plant proteomes (A. thaliana, M. truncatula, O. sativa, and P. trichocarpa), and analyzed using various domain and gene modeling tools. A total of 41,260 GSR assemblies and singletons were annotated, of which 19,786 have unique GenBank accession numbers. Within the GSR dataset, 29% of the sequences were annotated using the Arabidopsis Gene Ontology (GO) with the largest categories of assigned function being catalytic activity and metabolic processes, groups that include the majority of cellular enzymes and components of amino acid, carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. A total of 5,888 GSRs had homology to genes encoding transcription factors (TFs) and transcription associated factors (TAFs) representing about 5% of the total annotated sequences in the dataset. Sixty-two (62) of the 64 well-characterized plant transcription factor (TF) gene families are represented in the cowpea GSRs, and these families are of similar size and phylogenetic organization to those characterized in other plants. The cowpea GSRs also provides a rich source of genes involved in photoperiodic control, symbiosis, and defense-related responses. Comparisons to available databases revealed that about 74% of cowpea ESTs and 70% of all legume ESTs were represented in the GSR dataset. As approximately 12% of all GSRs contain an identifiable simple-sequence repeat, the dataset is a powerful resource for the design of microsatellite markers. The availability of extensive publicly available genomic data for cowpea, a non-model legume with significant importance in the developing world, represents a significant step forward in legume research. Not only does the gene space sequence enable the detailed analysis of gene structure, gene family organization and phylogenetic relationships within cowpea, but it also facilitates the characterization of syntenic relationships with other cultivated and model legumes, and will contribute to determining patterns of chromosomal evolution in the Leguminosae. The micro and macrosyntenic relationships detected between cowpea and other cultivated and model legumes should simplify the identification of informative markers for marker-assisted trait selection and map-based gene isolation necessary for cowpea improvement.
Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia whose cells express CD38 and ZAP-70 and utilize unmutated Ig VH region genes have a very poor prognosis. We studied whether cells expressing CD38 and ZAP-70 are more susceptible to stimulation through B-cell receptors than are cells that do not express CD38 and ZAP-70. CD38-positive and CD38-negative leukemic cells were separated from single cases and compared for their response to B-cell receptor cross-linking and ZAP-70 expression. Cohort studies were also carried out by measuring the apoptotic response to surface immunoglobulin M (IgM) cross-linking in 82 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and the protein tyrosine phosphorylation induced by surface IgM in 21 patients. CD38-positive cells, isolated from cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia classified as CD38-positive or CD38-negative, expressed more ZAP-70 than the corresponding CD38-negative cells, exhibited more robust protein tyrosine phosphorylation and had a greater tendency to apoptosis upon B-cell receptor cross-linking. In the cohort studies, surface IgM-induced protein tyrosine phosphorylation correlated significantly with CD38 and ZAP-70 expression and with the absence of Ig VH gene mutations. Apoptosis induced by surface IgM cross-linking correlated significantly only with the proportion of CD38-positive cells. Difficulties in finding more definitive correlations were probably related to imprecision in the in vitro test system and in the definition of cases as positive or negative. Collectively, these data indicate that CD38-positive, ZAP-70-positive cells have a greater capacity for signaling through the B-cell receptor and suggest a function for B-cell receptor signaling in promoting chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell expansion, especially within the CD38-positive fraction of the leukemic clone.
Hypergravity produced by centrifugation caused inhibition of elongation growth and a decrease in the cell wall extensibility in azuki bean epicotyls (Vigna angularis Ohwi et Ohashi). Also, hypergravity increased the molecular mass of xyloglucans, whereas it decreased xyloglucan-degrading activity in epicotyls. When the expression profiles of three xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase (XTH) genes, VaXTHS4, VaXTH1 and VaXTH2, were analyzed under hypergravity conditions, the expression of VaXTHS4, which shows only hydrolase activity, was downregulated in proportion to the logarithm of the magnitude of gravity (R = -0.94). However, the gene expression of VaXTH1 or VaXTH2, which shows only transglucosylase activity, was not affected by gravitational conditions. When the seedlings that had been grown at 1 g were transferred to hypergravity conditions at 300 g, the downregulation of VaXTHS4 expression was detected within 1 h. By removal of hypergravity stimulus, VaXTHS4 expression was increased within 1 h. These results suggest that azuki bean epicotyls promptly regulate the expression level of only VaXTHS4 in response to gravity stimuli. The regulation of xyloglucan-hydrolyzing activity as a result of changes in VaXTHS4 expression may be involved in the regulation by gravity of molecular mass of xyloglucans, leading to modifications of cell wall mechanical properties and cell elongation. Lanthanum and gadolinium, potential blockers of mechanosensitive calcium ion permeable channels (mechanoreceptors), nullified the suppression of VaXTHS4 expression, suggesting that mechanoreceptors are responsible for inhibition by hypergravity of VaXTHS4 expression.
Membranes are main targets of drought, and there is growing evidence for the involvement of membrane lipid in plant adaptation to such an environmental stress. Biosynthesis of the galactosylglycerolipids, monogalactosyl-diacylglycerol (MGDG) and digalactosyl-diacylglycerol (DGDG), which are the main components of chloroplast envelope and thylakoid membranes, could be important for plant tolerance to water deficit and for recovery after rehydration. In this study, galactolipid (GL) biosynthesis in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) leaves was analysed during drought stress and subsequent rewatering. Comparison of two cowpea cutivars, one drought tolerant and the other drought susceptible submitted to moderate drought stress, revealed patterns associated with water-deficit tolerance: increase in DGDG leaf content, stimulation of DGDG biosynthesis in terms of (14)C-acetate incorporation and messenger accumulation corresponding to four genes coding for GL synthases (MDG1, MGD2, DGD1 and DGD2). Similar to phosphate starvation, lack of water enhanced DGDG biosynthesis and it was hypothesized that the drought-induced DGDG accumulated in extrachloroplastic membranes, and thus contributes to plant tolerance to arid environments.
The apoplast is known to play a predominant role in the expression of manganese (Mn) toxicity in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) leaves. To unravel early Mn-toxicity responses after 1-3 days Mn treatment also in the leaf symplast, we studied the symplastic reactions induced by Mn in two cultivars differing in Mn tolerance on a total cellular level. Comparative proteome analyses of plants exposed to low or high Mn allowed to identify proteins specifically affected by Mn, particularly in the Mn-sensitive cowpea cultivar. These proteins are involved in CO(2) fixation, stabilization of the Mn cluster of the photosystem II, pathogenesis-response reactions and protein degradation. Chloroplastic proteins important for CO(2) fixation and photosynthesis were of lower abundance upon Mn stress suggesting scavenging of metabolic energy for a specific stress response. Transcriptome analyses supported these findings, but additionally revealed an upregulation of genes involved in signal transduction only in the Mn-sensitive cultivar. In conclusion, a coordinated interplay of apoplastic and symplastic reactions seems to be important during the Mn-stress response in cowpea.
The Mexican bean weevil, Zabrotes subfasciatus, feeds on several seeds such as Vigna unguiculata, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Pisum sativum, causing severe crop losses. This ability to obtain essential compounds from different diets could possibly be explained due to a wide variability of digestive proteinases present in the weevil's midgut. These may improve digestion of many different dietary proteins. Coleopteran serine-like proteinases have not been thoroughly characterized at the molecular level. In this report, a full-length cDNA encoding a trypsin-like protein, named ZsTRYP, was isolated from Z. subfasciatus larvae using RT-PCR, 5' and 3' RACE techniques. The quantitative real-time PCR analysis strongly correlated the Zstryp transcript accumulation to the major feeding developmental larval stage. Zstryp cDNA was subcloned into pET101 vector and expressed in a Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) strain. Nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) affinity chromatography was used to purify a 29.0-kDa recombinant enzyme. The purified ZsTRYP was then assayed with several synthetic peptide substrates and also challenged with different inhibitors. The biochemical data allowed us to classify ZsTRYP as a trypsin. Moreover, homology modeling analysis indicated a typical trypsin structural core and a conserved catalytic triad (His(41), Asp(86), and Ser(182)).
Homalodisca vitripennis Germar 1821 (Hemiptera: Cicadellidae) [Takiya et al. (2006) Ann Entomol Soc Am 99:648-655; syn. H. coagulata (Say)] salivary gland and gut EST libraries were used to isolate cDNA fragments of the gene transcripts encoding for cathepsin L, asparaginyl endopeptidase, cathepsin B, metalloendopeptidase, cathepsin D, multicatalytic endopeptidase, and a sugar-binding C-type lectin. Transcript levels were evaluated in immature and adult H. vitripennis feeding on sunflower (Helianthus annuus) or cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Northern blot hybridization results showed that expression of most of the transcripts were similar for all developmental stages and feeding on the two diets examined. However, the expression of the transcript for asparaginyl endopeptidase was less expressed in sunflower-fed adult females compared to sunflower-fed immatures. Also, the expression of the C-type lectin transcript was up-regulated in adults compared to immatures when fed on either diet. Documenting both the presence and variation of transcript expression involved in putative digestive proteolysis in this xylem-feeding leafhopper is noteworthy and aids efforts to design specific diet formulations for mass production of hosts and parasitoids to be used as effective biological control measures.
Two cDNAs of the enzyme glutathione reductase (GR; EC 1.6.4.2) encoding a dual-targeted isoform (dtGR) and a cytosolic isoform (cGR), were cloned from leaves of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). Moderate drought stress (Psi w=-1.5MPa) followed by re-watering was applied to common bean cultivars, one tolerant to drought (IPA), the other susceptible (Carioca) and to cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) cultivars, one tolerant to drought (EPACE-1), and the other susceptible (1183). mRNA levels were much higher for PvcGR than for PvdtGR in all cases. Moderate drought stress induced an up-regulation of the expression of PvcGR in the susceptible cultivars. On the contrary, PvdtGR expression decreased. In the tolerant cowpea EPACE-1, GR gene expression remained stable under drought. During recovery from drought, an up-regulation of the two GR isoforms occurred, with a peak at 6-10h after re-hydration. This suggests that moderate drought stress may lead to a hardening process and acclimation tolerance. The role of GR isoforms in plant tolerance and capacity to recover from drought stress is discussed.
Water deficit is one of the main abiotic factors that affect spring wheat planted in subtropical regions. Accumulation of proline appears to be a promising approach to maintain the productivity of plants under stress condition. However, morphological alterations and growth reduction are observed in transgenic plants carrying genes coding for osmoprotectants controlled by constitutive promoters. We report here the effects of water deficit on wheat plants transformed with the Vigna aconitifolia Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS) cDNA that encodes the key regulatory enzyme in proline biosynthesis, under the control of a stress-induced promoter complex-AIPC. Transgenic wheat plants submitted to 15 days of water shortage presented a distinct response. We have found that drought resulted in the accumulation of proline. The tolerance to water deficit observed in transgenic plants was mainly due to protection mechanisms against oxidative stress and not caused by osmotic adjustment.
Plant Ku genes were identified very recently in Arabidopsis thaliana, and their roles in repair of double-stranded break DNA and maintenance of telomere integrity were scrutinized. In this study, the cDNAs encoding Ku70 (VrKu70) and Ku80 (VrKu80) were isolated from mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) hypocotyls. Both genes were expressed widely among different tissues of mung bean with the highest levels in hypocotyls and leaves. The VrKu gene expression was stimulated by exogenous auxins in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The stimulation could be abolished by auxin transport inhibitors, N-(1-naphthyl) phthalamic acid and 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid implicating that exogenous auxins triggered the effects following their uptake by the cells. Further analysis using specific inhibitors of auxin signaling showed that the stimulation of VrKu expression by 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) was suppressed by intracellular Ca(2+) chelators, calmodulin antagonists, and calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase inhibitors, suggesting the involvement of calmodulin in the signaling pathway. On the other hand, exogenous indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and alpha-naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) stimulated VrKu expression through the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway. Altogether, it is thus proposed that 2,4-D and IAA (or NAA) regulate the expression of VrKu through two distinct pathways.
Using a combination of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis protein mapping and mass spectrometry analysis, we have established proteome reference maps of embryogenic cell suspensions of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). The cell suspensions were generated from young primary leaves and contained basically pro-embryogenic masses, which enabled us to dissect their proteome composition while eliminating the complexity of too many cell types. Over 550 proteins could reproducibly be resolved over a pI range of 3-10. A total of 128 of the most abundant protein spots were excised, digested in-gel with trypsin and analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry. This enabled the identification of 67 protein spots. Two of the most abundant proteins were identified as a chitinase and as a ribonuclease belonging to the family of PR-4 and PR-10 proteins, respectively. The expression of the respective genes was confirmed by RT-PCR and the pattern of deposition of the PR-10 protein in cell suspensions as well as in developing cowpea seeds, roots, shoots and flowers were determined by Western blot experiments, using synthetic antibodies raised against a 14-amino acid synthetic peptide located close to the C-terminal region of the PR-10 protein.
Pea albumin 1b (PA1b) is a small sulphur-rich peptide from pea seeds, also named leginsulin because of the binding characteristics of its soybean orthologue. Its insecticidal properties were discovered more recently. By using a combination of molecular, biochemical and specific insect bioassays on seed extracts, we characterised genes from numerous Papilionoideae, but not from Caesalpinioideae or Mimosoideae, although the last group harboured species with partially positive cues (homologous biological activities). The A1b defence peptide family, therefore, appears to have evolved relatively late in the legume lineage, maybe from the sophoroid group (e.g. Styphnolobium japonicum). However, unambiguous sequence information is restricted to a group of tribes within the subfamily Papilionoideae (Psoraleae, Millettieae, Desmodieae, Hedysareae, Phaseoleae, Vicieae, and the now clearly polyphyletic "Trifolieae" and "Galegeae"). Recent diversification by gene duplications has occurred in many species, or longer ago in some lineages (Medicago truncatula), as well as probable gene or expression losses at different taxonomic levels (Loteae, Vigna subterranea).
Lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) are antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) involved in the defense of plants against pathogens. Our group has previously characterized and purified a LTP from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) seeds which caused the inhibition of growth of fungal pathogens in vitro. The aim of this work was to obtain the cDNA encoding the cowpea LTP and after cloning, to use the cDNA as a probe for studying its expression profile during the development of cowpea seeds. In this work, the N-terminal sequence of the mature LTP peptide from cowpea was used to produce a degenerated oligonucleotide. This primer allowed the amplification of the LTP cDNA by RT-PCR from mRNA of cowpea seeds. The sequence analysis of the cloned cDNA, named VULTP, showed 494 bp which encoded a polypeptide of 91 amino acids. The deduced peptide presented high homology of similarity to plant LTPs of Vigna radiata var. radiate (94%), Prunus domestica (82%) and Zea mays (72%). The expression profile of the VULTP gene in cowpea was analyzed by Northern blot and revealed that the transcript is not accumulated in adult tissues. Conversely, VULTP mRNA is early and strongly accumulated during seed development. The results obtained to seedling of cowpea demonstrate that the VULTP gene presents differential expression in response to different stress. Further studies will be conducted to try to gain better understanding about the physiological role of this gene in cowpea.
Reactive oxygen species are frequently produced when plants are exposed to abiotic stresses. Among the detoxication systems, two enzymes, ascorbate peroxidase and glutathione reductase (GR) play key roles. GR has also a central role in keeping the reduced glutathione pool during stress thus allowing the adjustments on the cellular redox reactions. The aim of this work was to study the variations in cytosolic and dual-targeted GR gene expression in the leaves of cowpea plants submitted to progressive drought, rapid desiccation and application of exogenous abscisic acid (ABA). Two cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) cultivars, one drought-resistant ('EPACE-1'), the other drought-sensitive ('1183') were submitted to progressive drought stress by withholding irrigation. Cut-off leaves were air-dried or treated with exogenous ABA. Two GR cDNAs, one cytosolic, the other dual-targeted to chloroplasts and mitochondria were isolated by PCR and cloned in plasmid vectors. Reverse-transcription PCR was used to study the variations in GR gene expression. Two new cDNAs encoding a putative dual-targeted and a cytosolic GR were cloned and sequenced from leaves of V. unguiculata. Drought stress induced an up-regulation of the expression of the cytosolic GR gene directly related to the intensity of the stress in both cultivars. The expression of dual-targeted GR was up-regulated by the drought treatment in the susceptible cultivar only. Under a fast desiccation, the '1183' cultivar responded later than the 'EPACE-1', although in 'EPACE-1' it was the cytosolic isoform which responded and in '1183' the dual-targeted one. Exogenous ABA enhanced significantly the activity and expression levels of GR in both cultivars after treatment for 24 h. These results demonstrate a noticeable activation in both cultivars of the antioxidant metabolism under a progressive water stress, which involves both GR genes in the case of the susceptible cultivar. Under a fast desiccation, the susceptible cultivar responded later than the resistant one, suggesting a weaker capacity of response versus the resistant one. Exogenous ABA probably acts on GR gene expression via a mediated signal transduction pathway.
Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna (MYMV-Vig) is a bipartite geminivirus that causes a severe yellow mosaic disease in blackgram. An assay was developed to study MYMV-Vig replication by agroinoculation of tobacco leaf discs with partial dimers of the virus. This assay, in a non-host model plant, was used to evaluate pathogen-derived resistance contributed by MYMV-Vig genes in transgenic plants. Viral DNA accumulation was optimum in tobacco leaf discs cultured for 10 days after infection with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain Ach5 containing partial dimers of both DNA A and DNA B of MYMV-Vig. Transgenic tobacco plants with MYMV-Vig genes for coat protein (CP), replication-associated protein (Rep)-sense, Rep-antisense, truncated Rep (T-Rep), nuclear shuttle protein (NSP) and movement protein (MP) were generated. Leaf discs from transgenic tobacco plants, harbouring MYMV-Vig genes, were agroinoculated with partial dimers of MYMV-Vig and analyzed for viral DNA accumulation. The leaf discs from transgenic tobacco plants harbouring CP and MP genes supported the accumulation of higher levels of MYMV-Vig DNA. However, MYMV-Vig accumulation was inhibited in one transgenic plant harbouring the Rep-sense gene and in two plants harbouring the T-Rep gene. Northern analysis of these plants revealed a good correlation between expression of Rep or T-Rep genes and inhibition of MYMV-Vig accumulation.
Morphologically normal and fertile transgenic plants of mungbean with two transgenes, bar and alpha-amylase inhibitor, have been developed for the first time. Cotyledonary node explants were transformed by cocultivation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 harboring a binary vector pKSB that carried bialaphos resistance (bar) gene and Phaseolus vulgaris alpha-amylase inhibitor-1 (alphaAI-1) gene. Green transformed shoots were regenerated and rooted on medium containing phosphinothricin (PPT). Preculture and wounding of the explants, presence of acetosyringone and PPT-based selection of transformants played significant role in enhancing transformation frequency. Presence and expression of the bar gene in primary transformants was evidenced by PCR-Southern analysis and PPT leaf paint assay, respectively. Integration of the Phaseolus vulgaris alpha-amylase inhibitor gene was confirmed by Southern blot analysis. PCR analysis revealed inheritance of both the transgenes in most of the T(1) lines. Tolerance to herbicide was evidenced from seed germination test and chlorophenol red assay in T(1) plants. Transgenic plants could be recovered after 8-10 weeks of cocultivation with Agrobacterium. An overall transformation frequency of 1.51% was achieved.
We have previously demonstrated that vacuolar sorting receptor (VSR) proteins are concentrated on prevacuolar compartments (PVCs) in plant cells. PVCs in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells are multivesicular bodies (MVBs) as defined by VSR proteins and the BP-80 reporter, where the transmembrane domain (TMD) and cytoplasmic tail (CT) sequences of BP-80 are sufficient and specific for correct targeting of the reporter to PVCs. The genome of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains seven VSR proteins, but little is known about their individual subcellular localization and function. Here, we study the subcellular localization of the seven Arabidopsis VSR proteins (AtVSR1-7) based on the previously proven hypothesis that the TMD and CT sequences correctly target individual VSR to its final destination in transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells. Toward this goal, we have generated seven chimeric constructs containing signal peptide (sp) linked to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and TMD/CT sequences (sp-GFP-TMD/CT) of the seven individual AtVSR. Transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell lines expressing these seven sp-GFP-TMD-CT fusions all exhibited typical punctate signals colocalizing with VSR proteins by confocal immunofluorescence. In addition, wortmannin caused the GFP-marked prevacuolar organelles to form small vacuoles, and VSR antibodies labeled these enlarged MVBs in transgenic BY-2 cells. Wortmannin also caused VSR-marked PVCs to vacuolate in other cell types, including Arabidopsis, rice (Oryza sativa), pea (Pisum sativum), and mung bean (Vigna radiata). Therefore, the seven AtVSRs are localized to MVBs in tobacco BY-2 cells, and wortmannin-induced vacuolation of PVCs is a general response in plants.
Phospholipase D (PLD) is one of the main enzymes involved in signal transduction, vesicle trafficking and membrane metabolism processes. Here we describe the heterologous high-yield expression in the yeast Pichia pastoris, one-step purification and characterization of catalytically active PLDalpha from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp). Immunoblotting experiments showed that recombinant PLDalpha is recognized by a polyclonal antibody raised against native soybean PLDalpha. A single calcium-dependent octyl-Sepharose chromatography step was used to obtain a highly purified recombinant PLDalpha, as attested by gel electrophoresis, N-terminal amino acid sequence and mass spectrometry data. From 1L of yeast culture medium, about 8 mg of pure recombinant PLDalpha was obtained and the specific activity measured on phosphatidylcholine was 27 micromol/min/mg. Contrary to what was observed previously with Vigna unguiculata PLDalpha expressed in insect cells, no proteolytic degradation of the N-terminal calcium-dependent C2 lipid binding domain was observed here. This functional recombinant PLDalpha should provide a valuable tool for performing detailed studies on the molecular characterization of enzymes as well as structural studies.
Legume root nodule nitrogen-fixing activity is severely affected by osmotic stress. Proline accumulation has been shown to induce tolerance to salt stress, and transgenic plants over-expressing Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS), which accumulates high levels of proline, display enhanced osmotolerance. Here, we transformed the model legume Medicago truncatula with the P5CS gene from Vigna aconitifolia, and nodule activity was evaluated under osmotic stress in transgenic plants that showed high proline accumulation levels. Nitrogen fixation was significantly less affected by salt treatment compared to wild-type (WT) plants. To our knowledge, this is the first time that transgenic legumes have been produced that display nitrogen-fixing activity with enhanced tolerance to osmotic stress. We studied the expression of M. truncatula proline-related endogenous genes M. truncatulaDelta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase 1 (MtP5CS1), M. truncatulaDelta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase 2 (MtP5CS2), M. truncatula ornithine delta-aminotransferase (MtOAT), M. truncatula proline dehydrogenase (MtProDH) and a proline transporter gene in both WT and transgenic plants. Our results indicate that proline metabolism is finely regulated in response to osmotic stress in an organ-specific manner. The transgenic model allowed us to analyse some of the biochemical and molecular mechanisms that are activated in the nodule in response to high salt conditions, and to ascertain the essential role of proline in the maintenance of nitrogen-fixing activity under osmotic stress.
Interactions between legumes and rhizobia are controlled by the sequential exchange of symbiotic signals. Two different techniques, 2D-PAGE electrophoresis and differential display were used to study the effects of rhizobial signals on legume development. Application of variously substituted lipo-oligo-saccharidic Nod-factors to roots of Vigna unguiculata resulted in changes in the phosphorylation patterns of microsomal proteins. Reliable amino-acid sequences were obtained for one Nod-factor enhanced protein which was highly homologous to the 57-kDa subunit from Arabidopsis thaliana vacuolar membrane H(+)-ATPase. Immuno-blotting techniques demonstrated that Nod-factors cause rapid and massive increases of this enzyme in treated roots, suggesting that H(+)-ATPases play symbiotic roles. Concomitantly, we used differential display (DD) techniques on mRNA isolated from root-hairs to analyse early root responses to NGR234. Significant matches of several DD clones to known sequences were found. Clone D2.62 was homologous to a multitude of receptor kinases including S receptor-like kinases of A. thaliana and clone D4.1 showed similarities to Lotus japonicus phosphatidylinositol transfer-like protein III and late nodulin 16. Independent confirmatory analyses of these differentially expressed clones indicated expression at very low levels.
The alternative oxidase (Aox) was studied at different levels (transcript, protein and capacity) in response to an osmotic shock applied to roots of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Two cultivars of V. unguiculata were used, Vita 3 and Vita 5, tolerant and sensitive to drought/saline stress respectively. The seedlings (17-day-old) were grown in hydroponic conditions and submitted to NaCl (100 and 200 mM) or 200.67 g L(-1) PEG 6000 (iso-osmotic condition to 100 mM NaCl). The VuAox1 and VuAox2a mRNA were not detected in either cultivar under all tested conditions while the VuAox2b gene was differently expressed. In the tolerant cultivar (Vita 3), the expression of VuAox2b gene was stimulated by an osmotic stress induced by PEG which was associated with a higher amount and capacity of the Aox protein. In the same cultivar, this gene was under-expressed in salt stress conditions with poor effect on the protein level. In the sensitive cultivar (Vita 5), the transcript level of the VuAox2b was unchanged in response to PEG treatment, even though the protein and the capacity tended to increase. Upon salt stress, the VuAox2b gene was over-expressed. At 100mM NaCl, this VuAox2b gene over-expression led to a higher amount and capacity of Aox. This effect was reduced at 200 mM NaCl. Overall, these results suggest complex mechanisms (transcriptional, translational and post-translational) for Aox regulation in response to osmotic stress.
Wheat (Triticum aestivum L. var. DL 1266-5), sunflower (Helianthus annuus L. var. MSFH 17) and mungbean [Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek var. P 9072] were grown in field under atmospheric (360 +/- 10 cm3 m(-3), AC) and elevated (650 +/- 50 cm3 m(-3), EC) CO2 concentrations in open top chambers for entire period of growth and development. Photosynthetic acclimation to elevated CO2 was examined by comparing photosynthesis rate (Pn), Pn/Ci curves, leaf contents of RuBP carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco), change in the transcripts of Rubisco small subunit (SSU) gene and leaf carbohydrate constituents in AC and EC grown plants. The study indicated that photosynthetic acclimation to elevated CO2 concentration in wheat occurred because of down regulation of Rubisco, through limitation imposed on Rubisco SSU gene expression, as a consequence of sugar accumulation in the leaves. Leaf starch accumulators, sunflower and mungbean, showed no down regulation of Pn under EC. The Rubisco contents (%) in leaf soluble protein and rbcS transcript levels were not significantly affected in EC plants compared to AC plants of sunflower and mungbean. The study indicated that accumulation of excess assimilates in the leaves as starch was less inhibitory to Pn and would, therefore, be an important trait for sustenance of Pn not only under EC, but also under AC, where Pn inhibited by end products.
The MET oncogene was causally involved in the pathogenesis of a rare tumor, i.e., the papillary renal cell carcinoma, in which activating mutations, either germline or somatic, were identified. MET activating mutations are rarely found in other human tumors, whereas at higher frequencies, MET is amplified and/or overexpressed in sporadic tumors of specific histotypes, including osteosarcoma. In this work, we provide experimental evidence that overexpression of the MET oncogene causes and sustains the full-blown transformation of osteoblasts. Overexpression of MET, obtained by lentiviral vector-mediated gene transfer, resulted in the conversion of primary human osteoblasts into osteosarcoma cells, displaying the transformed phenotype in vitro and the distinguishing features of human osteosarcomas in vivo. These included atypical nuclei, aberrant mitoses, production of alkaline phosphatase, secretion of osteoid extracellular matrix, and striking neovascularization. Although with a lower tumorigenicity, this phenotype was superimposable to that observed after transfer of the MET gene activated by mutation. Both transformation and tumorigenesis were fully abrogated when MET expression was quenched by short-hairpin RNA or when signaling was impaired by a dominant-negative MET receptor. These data show that MET overexpression is oncogenic and that it is essential for the maintenance of the cancer phenotype.
Aluminium (Al) stimulates the efflux of citrate from apices of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) roots. This response is delayed at least 3 h when roots are exposed to 50 microm Al, indicating that some inducible processes leading to citrate efflux are involved. The physiological bases responsible for the delayed response were examined here. The effects of several antagonists of anion channels and citrate carriers, and of the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide (CHM) on Al-stimulated citrate efflux and/or citrate content were examined by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) or an enzymatic method. Both anion channel inhibitors and citrate carrier inhibitors can inhibit Al-stimulated citrate efflux, with anthracene-9-carboxylic acid (A-9-C, an anion channel inhibitor) and phenylisothiocyanate (PI, a citrate carrier inhibitor) the most effective inhibitors. A 6 h pulse of 50 microm Al induced a significant increase of citrate content in root apices and release of citrate. However, the increase in citrate content preceded the efflux. Furthermore, the release of citrate stimulated by the pulse treatment was inhibited by both A-9-C and PI, indicating the importance of the citrate carrier on the mitochondrial membrane and the anion channel on the plasma membrane for the Al-stimulated citrate efflux. CHM (20 microm) also significantly inhibited Al-stimulated citrate efflux, confirming that de novo protein synthesis is required for Al-stimulated citrate efflux. These results indicate that the activation of genes possibly encoding citrate transporters plays a critical role in Al-stimulated citrate efflux.
The conserved domains of reverse transcriptase (RT) genes of Ty1-copia and Ty3-gypsy groups of long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons were amplified from mungbean (Vigna radiata) genome using degenerate primers, cloned and sequenced. Among these 34% and 65% of respective clones of copia and gypsy RT sequences possessed stop codons or frame-shifts or both. The RT sequences corresponding to both the groups exhibit significant levels of heterogeneity. Presence of mungbean copia and gypsy RT sequences in other papilionoid legumes of the same (Phaseoleae) and different lineages (Loteae, Trifoleae, Cicereae) indicates existence of these elements prior to the radiation of papilionoid legumes and also supports the recent interpretations of close relationship between Phaseoleae and Loteae tribes of Papilionoideae subfamily. On the other hand significant homologies of some mungbean copia as well as gypsy RT sequences with those of unrelated plant species suggest their origin from different plant lineages and also that heterogeneous population of related elements were already existed throughout (even before the divergence of monocot and dicot) the evolution of these genera from their common ancestor.
A study of life-history traits was made to determine factors associated with the fitness of Meloidogyne incognita isolates virulent to resistance gene Rk in cowpea. Egg hatch, root penetration, egg mass production, and fecundity (eggs per egg mass) of avirulent and virulent phenotypes were compared among M. incognita isolates, isofemale lines, and single descent lines over multiple generations on resistant and susceptible cowpea. Variation (P </= 0.05) in both hatch and root penetration rates was found among isolates at a given generation. However, this variation was not consistent within nematode lines among generations, and there was no correlation with level of virulence, except for penetration and virulence on resistant cowpea at generation 20. Resistant and susceptible cowpea roots were penetrated at similar levels. Differences in reproductive factors on resistant plants were correlated with levels of virulence expression. In some isofemale lines, single descent lines, and isolates, lower (P </= 0.05) rates of egg mass production and fecundity on susceptible cowpea were associated with virulence to Rk, indicating a trade-off between reproductive fitness and virulence. Other virulent nematode lines from the same isolates did not have reduced reproductive ability on susceptible cowpea over 27 generations. Thus, virulent lineages varied in reproductive ability on susceptible cowpea, contributing to adaptation and maintenance of virulence within M. incognita populations under stabilizing selection.
We report the cloning and characterization in tobacco and Arabidopsis of a Vigna radiata L. (mung bean) promoter that controls the expression of VR-ACS1, an auxin-inducible ACC synthase gene. The VR-ACS1 promoter exhibits a very unusual behavior when studied in plants different from its original host, mung bean. GUS and luciferase in situ assays of transgenic plants containing VR-ACS1 promoter fusions show strong constitutive reporter gene expression throughout tobacco and Arabidopsis development. In vitro quantitative analyses show that transgenic plants harboring VR-ACS1 promoter-reporter constructs have on average 4-6 fold higher protein and activity levels of both reporter genes than plants transformed with comparable CaMV 35S promoter fusions. Similar transcript levels are present in VR-ACS1 and CaMV 35S promoter lines, suggesting that the high levels of gene product observed for the VR-ACS1 promoter are the combined result of transcriptional and translational activation. All tested deletion constructs retaining the core promoter region can drive strong constitutive promoter activity in transgenic plants. This is in contrast to mung bean, where expression of the native VR-ACS1 gene is almost undetectable in plants grown under normal conditions, but is rapidly and highly induced by a variety of stimuli. The constitutive behavior of the VR-ACS1 promoter in heterologous hosts is surprising, suggesting that the control mechanisms active in mung bean are impaired in tobacco and Arabidopsis. The 'aberrant' behavior of the VR-ACS1 promoter is further emphasized by its failure to respond to auxin and cycloheximide in heterologous hosts. VR-ACS1 promoter regulatory mechanisms seem to be different from all previously characterized auxin-inducible promoters.
Abiotic stresses stimulate formation of active oxygen species in plant tissues. Among antioxidant mechanisms, H2O2 detoxication by ascorbate peroxidases (APX) plays an important role. Several APX isoforms exist in plant cells, and they have rarely been studied separately. The aim of this work was to study changes in cytosolic, peroxisomal, stromatic and thylakoid APX gene expression in response to progressive drought, rapid desiccation and application of exogenous abscisic acid in the leaves of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) plants. Two cowpea (V. unguiculata) cultivars, 'EPACE-1' which is drought-tolerant and '1183'which is drought-sensitive, were submitted to drought stress by withholding irrigation. Detached leaves were air-dried or treated with exogenous abscisic acid. APX cDNAs were isolated by PCR and cloned in plasmid vectors. Changes in gene expression were studied using reverse-transcription PCR. Four new V. unguiculata cDNAs encoding putative cytosolic, peroxisomal and chloroplastic (stromatic and thylakoidal) APX were isolated and characterized. In response to the different treatments, higher increases in steady-state transcript levels of the cytoplasmic and peroxisomal APX genes were observed in '1183' compared with 'EPACE-1'. On the other hand, the expression of the chloroplastic APX genes was stimulated earlier in the tolerant cultivar when submitted to progressive drought. Water deficit induced differences in transcript accumulation of APX genes between the two cultivars that were related to their respective tolerance to drought. Chloroplastic APX genes responded early to progressive water deficit in the tolerant plant, suggesting a capacity to efficiently detoxify active oxygen species at their production site. The more sensitive '1183' was also able to respond to drought by activating its whole set of APX genes.
Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus) and Bradyrhizobium sp. (Vigna) mutants in which hydrogenase (hup) activity was affected were constructed and analyzed. Vigna unguiculata plants inoculated with the Bradyrhizobium sp. (Vigna) hup mutant showed reduced nitrogenase activity and also a significant decrease in nitrogen content, suggesting a relevant contribution of hydrogenase activity to plant yield.
Cowpeas are nutritious grains that provide the main source of protein, highly digestible energy and vitamins to some of the world's poorest people. The demand for cowpeas is high but yields remain critically low, largely because of insect pests. Cowpea germplasm contains little or no resistance to major insect pests and a gene technology approach to adding insect protection traits is now a high priority. We have adapted features of several legume and other transformation systems and reproducibly obtained transgenic cowpeas that obey Mendelian rules in transmitting the transgene to their progeny. Critical parameters in this transformation system include the choice of cotyledonary nodes from developing or mature seeds as explants and a tissue culture medium devoid of auxins in the early stages, but including the cytokinin BAP at low levels during shoot initiation and elongation. Addition of thiol-compounds during infection and co-culture with Agrobacterium and the choice of the bar gene for selection with phosphinothricin were also important. Transgenic cowpeas that transmit the transgenes to their progeny can be recovered at a rate of one fertile plant per thousand explants. These results pave the way for the introduction of new traits into cowpea and the first genes to be trialled will include those with potential to protect against insect pests.
Rhizobium (Sinorhizobium) sp. strain NGR234 contains three replicons, the smallest of which (pNGR234a) carries most symbiotic genes, including those required for nodulation and lipo-chito-oligosaccharide (Nod factor) biosynthesis. Activation of nod gene expression depends on plant-derived flavonoids, NodD transcriptional activators, and nod box promoter elements. Nod boxes NB6 and NB7 delimit six different types of genes, one of which (fixF) is essential for the formation of effective nodules on Vigna unguiculata. In vegetative culture, wild-type NGR234 produces a distinct, flavonoid-inducible lipopolysaccharide (LPS) that is not produced by the mutant (NGRomegafixF); this LPS is also found in nitrogen-fixing bacteroids isolated from V. unguiculata infected with NGR234. Electron microscopy showed that peribacteroid membrane formation is perturbed in nodule cells infected by the fixF mutant. LPSs were purified from free-living NGR234 cultured in the presence of apigenin. Structural analyses showed that the polysaccharide portions of these LPSs are specialized, rhamnose-containing O antigens attached to a modified core-lipid A carrier. The primary sequence of the O antigen is [-3)-alpha-L-Rhap-(1,3)-alpha-L-Rhap-(1,2)-alpha-L-Rhap-(1-]n, and the LPS core region lacks the acidic sugars commonly associated with the antigenic outer core of LPS from noninduced cells. This rhamnan O antigen, which is absent from noninduced cells, has the same primary sequence as the A-band O antigen of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, except that it is composed of L-rhamnose rather than the D-rhamnose characteristic of the latter. It is noteworthy that A-band LPS is selectively maintained on the P. aeruginosa cell surface during chronic cystic fibrosis lung infection, where it is associated with an increased duration of infection.
A heterogeneous population of cDNAs (designated Vupur3) encoding phosphoribosylglycinamide formyltransferase (GART; EC 2.1.2.2) was isolated from a cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) nodule library. Three classes of cDNA with the same ORF, but differing in their 3'-UTRs, were identified. Southern analysis and sequencing of genomic DNA confirmed that these differences result from alternative splicing of the primary transcript of a single Vupur3 gene. Alternative splicing does not appear to play a role in the production of soybean (Glycine max Merrill.) pur3 transcripts. The presence of the protein product of the Vupur3 gene, GART, in plastids and mitochondria was confirmed by immunoblotting with antibodies raised against the recombinant protein. The antibodies recognised two proteins with apparent molecular masses of 27 and 27.5 kDa in both mitochondria and plastids. All Vupur3 transcripts have two in-frame start codons that are active in wheatgerm in vitro transcription / translation experiments suggesting a mechanism by which the gene product could be targeted to two organelles. Like other genes encoding enzymes for purine synthesis, Vupur3 is expressed in nodules before nitrogen fixation begins but in contrast to these genes its expression does not increase markedly after nitrogen fixation begins.
Geminiviruses package circular single-stranded DNA and replicate in the nucleus via a double-stranded intermediate. This intermediate also serves as a template for bidirectional transcription by polymerase II. Here, we map promoters and transcripts and characterize regulatory proteins of Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna (MYMV), a bipartite geminivirus in the genus Begomovirus. The following new features, which might also apply to other begomoviruses, were revealed in MYMV. The leftward and rightward promoters on DNA-B share the transcription activator AC2-responsive region, which does not overlap the common region that is nearly identical in the two DNA components. The transcription unit for BC1 (movement protein) includes a conserved, leader-based intron. Besides negative-feedback regulation of its own leftward promoter on DNA-A, the replication protein AC1, in cooperation with AC2, synergistically transactivates the rightward promoter, which drives a dicistronic transcription unit for the coat protein AV1. AC2 and the replication enhancer AC3 are expressed from one dicistronic transcript driven by a strong promoter mapped within the upstream AC1 gene. Early and constitutive expression of AC2 is consistent with its essential dual function as an activator of viral transcription and a suppressor of silencing.
Regulation of gene expression represents a long-sought goal of gene therapy. However, most viral vectors pose constraints on the incorporation of drug-dependent transcriptional regulatory systems. Here, by optimizing the design of self-regulating lentiviral vectors based on the tetracycline system, we have been able to overcome the limitations of previously reported constructs and to reach both robust expression and efficient regulation from a single vector. The improved performance allows us to report for the first time effective long-term in vivo regulation of a human clotting Factor IX (hF.IX) transgene upon systemic administration of a single vector to SCID mice. We showed that hF.IX expression in the plasma could be expressed to therapeutically significant concentrations, adjusted to different set levels by varying the tetracycline dose, rapidly turned off and on, and completely recovered after each treatment cycle. The new vector design was versatile, as it successfully incorporated a tissue-specific promoter that selectively targeted regulated expression to hepatocytes. Robust transgene expression in the systemic circulation coupled to the ability to switch off and even adjust the expression level may open the way to safer gene-based delivery of therapeutics.
Bipartite geminiviruses encode a small protein, AC2, that functions as a transactivator of viral transcription and a suppressor of RNA silencing. A relationship between these two functions had not been investigated before. We characterized both of these functions for AC2 from Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna (MYMV). When transiently expressed in plant protoplasts, MYMV AC2 strongly transactivated the viral promoter; AC2 was detected in the nucleus, and a split nuclear localization signal (NLS) was mapped. In a model Nicotiana benthamiana plant, in which silencing can be triggered biolistically, AC2 reduced local silencing and prevented its systemic spread. Mutations in the AC2 NLS or Zn finger or deletion of its activator domain abolished both these effects, suggesting that suppression of silencing by AC2 requires transactivation of host suppressor(s). In line with this, in Arabidopsis protoplasts, MYMV AC2 or its homologue from African cassava mosaic geminivirus coactivated >30 components of the plant transcriptome, as detected with Affymetrix ATH1 GeneChips. Several corresponding promoters cloned from Arabidopsis were strongly induced by both AC2 proteins. These results suggest that silencing suppression and transcription activation by AC2 are functionally connected and that some of the AC2-inducible host genes discovered here may code for components of an endogenous network that controls silencing.
Transferring multiple genes into the same cell allows for the combination of genetic correction, marking, selection and conditional elimination of transduced cells or the reconstitution of multisubunit components and synergistic pathways. However, this cannot be reliably accomplished by current gene transfer technologies. Based on the finding that some cellular promoters intrinsically promote divergent transcription, we have developed synthetic bidirectional promoters that mediate coordinate transcription of two mRNAs in a ubiquitous or a tissue-specific manner. Lentiviral vectors incorporating the new promoters enabled efficient dual gene transfer in several tissues in vivo after direct delivery or transgenesis, and in a human gene therapy model. Because divergent gene pairs, likely transcribed from shared promoters, are common in the genome, the synthetic promoters that we developed may mimic a well-represented feature of transcription. Vectors incorporating these promoters should increase the power of gene function studies and expand the reach and safety of gene therapy.
Etiolated leaves of 28 degrees C-dark-grown mung bean (Vigna radiata L. cv. 2937) seedlings fail to turn green after being shifted to a light and cold environment. At the visible phenotypic level, incapability of leaf greening is the only failure event for the de-etiolation of mung bean seedlings at low temperature. Ultrastructural studies revealed that chloroplast development was completely suppressed by chilling treatment. A cDNA library originating from 28 degrees C-light-grown seedling leaves was constructed for screening cold-suppressed (cos) genes. Thirteen full-length cDNA clones were obtained, with 12 clones encoding chloroplast proteins, which, according to their known physiological functions, were important for chloroplast development and photosynthesis. Another cos cDNA encodes CYP90A2, which is a cytochrome P450 protein involved in the biosynthesis of brassinosteroid hormones. All cos genes are light-regulated at normal temperature. The influence of chilling stress on cos expression was examined in 10 degrees C-light- and 10 degrees C-dark-grown etiolated seedlings, and in 10 degrees C-light-grown green plants. The data show that cos expression in these three treatments is severely suppressed. This suppression is controlled at the transcriptional level, as demonstrated by nuclear runoff experiments, and is reversible because cos mRNAs accumulate again after the cold-treated plants have been transferred to 28 degrees C.
Cystatins are protein inhibitors of cystein proteinases belonging to the papain family. In cowpea, cystatin-like polypeptides and a cDNA have been identified from seeds and metabolic functions have been attributed to them. This paper describes VuC1, a new cystatin cDNA isolated from cowpea leaves (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.). Sequence analysis revealed a multicystatin structure with two cystatin-like domains. The recombinant VUC1 protein (rVUC1) was expressed in an heterologous expression system and purified to apparent homogeneity. It appeared to be an efficient inhibitor of papain activity on a chromogenic substrate. Polyclonal antibodies against rVUC1 were obtained. Involvement of the VuC1 cDNA in the cellular response to various abiotic stresses (progressive drought-stress, dessication and application of exogenous abscissic acid) was studied, using Northern blot and Western blot analysis, in the leaf tissues of cowpea plants corresponding to two cultivars with different capacity to tolerate drought-stress. Surprisingly, these abiotic stresses induced accumulation of two VuC1-like messages both translated into VUC1-like polypeptides. Difference in the transcript accumulation patterns was observed between the two cultivars and related to their respective tolerance level. Presence of multiple cystatin-like polypeptides and their possible involvement in the control of leaf protein degradation by cysteine proteinases is discussed.
Flavonoids secreted by host plants activate, in conjunction with the transcriptional activator NodD, nod gene expression of rhizobia resulting in the synthesis of Nod factors, which trigger nodule organogenesis. Interestingly, addition of inducing flavonoids also stimulates the production of the phytohormone indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) in several rhizobia. Here, the molecular basis of IAA synthesis in Rhizobium sp. NGR234 was investigated. Mass spectrometric analysis of culture supernatants indicated that NGR234 is capable of synthesizing IAA via three different pathways. The production of IAA is increased strongly by exposure of NGR234 to daidzein in a NodD1-, NodD2-, and SyrM2-dependent manner. This suggests that the y4wEFG locus that is downstream of nod-box NB15 encodes proteins involved in IAA synthesis. Knockout mutations in y4wE and y4wF abolished flavonoid-inducible IAA synthesis and a functional y4wF was required for constitutive IAA production. The promoter activity of NB15 and IAA production both were enhanced by introduction of a multicopy plasmid carrying nodD2 into NGR234. Surprisingly, the y4wE mutant still nodulated Vigna unguiculata and Tephrosia vogelii, although the nodules contained less IAA and IAA conjugates than those formed by the wild-type bacterium.
A cowpea (Vigna unguiculata cv. EPACE-1) aspartic proteinase (AP) gene was isolated by genomic Library screening. Sequence analysis shows that this AP gene follows the same pattern of intron/exon number and organization as the other isolated plant AP genes, which are distinct from other solved AP genes. Northern blot analysis revealed that cowpea AP accumulates in leaves and stems but not in roots, indicating tissue-specific expression. An increased accumulation of transcripts during senescence suggests enzyme involvement in this process.
Fluorescent proteins, such as green fluorescent protein and red fluorescent protein (DsRED), have become frequently used reporters in plant biology. However, their potential to monitor dynamic gene regulation is limited by their high stability. The recently made DsRED-E5 variant overcame this problem. DsRED-E5 changes its emission spectrum over time from green to red in a concentration independent manner. Therefore, the green to red fluorescence ratio indicates the age of the protein and can be used as a fluorescent timer to monitor dynamics of gene expression. Here, we analyzed the potential of DsRED-E5 as reporter in plant cells. We showed that in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) mesophyll protoplasts, DsRED-E5 changes its fluorescence in a way similar to animal cells. Moreover, the timing of this shift is suitable to study developmental processes in plants. To test whether DsRed-E5 can be used to monitor gene regulation in plant organs, we placed DsRED-E5 under the control of promoters that are either up- or down-regulated (MtACT4 and LeEXT1 promoters) or constitutively expressed (MtACT2 promoter) during root hair development in Medicago truncatula. Analysis of the fluorescence ratios clearly provided more accurate insight into the timing of promoter activity.
We have investigated in Sinorhizobium fredii HH103-1 (=HH103 Str(r)) the influence of the nolR gene on the production of three different bacterial symbiotic signals: Nod factors, signal responsive (SR) proteins, and exopolysaccharide (EPS). The presence of multiple copies of nolR (in plasmid pMUS675) repressed the transcription of all the flavonoid-inducible genes analyzed: nodA, nodD1, nolO, nolX, noeL, rhcJ, hesB, and y4pF. Inactivation of nolR (mutant SVQ517) or its overexpression (presence of pMUS675) altered the amount of Nod factors detected. Mutant SVQ517 produced Nod factors carrying N-methyl residues at the nonreducing N-acetyl-glucosamine, which never have been detected in S. fredii HH103. Plasmid pMUS675 increased the amounts of EPS produced by HH103-1 and SVQ517. The flavonoid genistein repressed EPS production of HH103-1 and SVQ517 but the presence of pMUS675 reduced this repression. The presence of plasmid pMUS675 clearly decreased the secretion of SR proteins. Inactivation, or overexpression, of nolR decreased the capacity of HH103 to nodulate Glycine max. However, HH103-1 and SVQ517 carrying plasmid pMUS675 showed enhanced nodulation capacity with Vigna unguiculata. The nolR gene was positively identified in all S. fredii strains investigated, S. xinjiangense CCBAU110, and S. saheli USDA4102. Apparently, S. teranga USDA4101 does not contain this gene.
Three isoforms of the cDNA of the major 8S globulin of mungbean, 8Salpha, 8Salpha', and 8Sbeta, were isolated, cloned, and characterized. The cDNA sequences of 8Salpha, 8Salpha', and 8Sbeta had open reading frames of 1362, 1359 or 1362, and 1359 bp, respectively, which code for 454, 453 or 454, and 453 amino acids corresponding to molecular weights of 51 973, 51 627 or 51 758, and 51 779, respectively. Homology in terms of cDNA and amino acid sequences was 91-92% between 8Salpha and 8Salpha', 87% between 8Salpha and 8Sbeta, and 86-88% between 8Salpha' and 8Sbeta. The signal peptide was found to be 1-25, 1-24 or 25, and 1-23 for 8Salpha, 8Salpha', and 8Sbeta, respectively, using the signalP website (Nielsen, H.; Engelbrecht, J.; Brunak, S.; von Heijne, G. Protein Eng. 1997, 10, 1-6). The propeptide was determined to be IVHREN. A single site for glycosylation (N-X-S/T) was observed about 90 amino acids from the C terminus. Homology between mungbean 8S isoforms and other 7-8S proteins ranged from 45 to 68% within members of the legume family and 29 to 34% for crops of different species. The major isoform 8Salpha was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified by successive ammonium sulfate fractionation, hydrophobic interaction, and Mono Q column chromatography. The recombinant 8Salpha, but not the native form, was successfully crystallized producing rhombohedral crystals.
Two full-length lipid transfer protein (LTP) cDNAs were isolated from mungbean (Vigna radiata) and designated Vrltp1 and Vrltp2. The deduced amino acid sequences contain the two highly conserved pentapeptides characteristic of plant LTPIs suggesting these Vrltps belong to the LTPI gene family. Vrltp1 mRNA was detected in developing seeds, but Vrltp2 mRNA was not. Within the vegetative tissues, the Vrltp1 and Vrltp2 mRNAs were present only in leaves and stems, but not root tips. Salt and dehydration stresses and exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) treatments resulted in increased mRNA levels of both Vrltps in leaves. We suggest that these unique Vrltps are specific to growing shoot tissues, and may play an important role in plant acclimation to water stress.
Asparaginyl endopeptidase is a cysteine endopeptidase that has strict substrate specificity toward the carboxyl side of asparagine residues, and is possibly involved in the post-translational processing of proproteins. In this report one full-length cDNA, SPAE, was isolated from senescent leaves of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam). SPAE contained 1479 nucleotides (492 amino acids) in the open reading frame, and exhibited high amino acid sequence homologies (c. 61-68%) with asparaginyl endopeptidases of Vicia sativa, Phaseolus vulgaris, Canavalia ensiformis, and Vigna mungo. SPAE probably encoded a putative precursor protein. Via cleavage of the N- and C-termini, it produced a mature protein containing 325 amino acids (from the 51st to the 375th amino acid residues), the conserved catalytic residues (the 173rd His and 215th Cys amino acid residues), and the putative N-glycosylation site (the 332nd Asn amino acid residue). Semi-quantitative RT-PCR and western blot hybridization showed that SPAE gene expression was enhanced significantly in natural senescent leaves and in dark- and ethephon-induced senescent leaves, but was much less in mature green leaves, stems, and roots. Phylogenic analysis showed that SPAE displayed close association with vacuolar processing enzymes (legumains/asparaginyl endopeptidases), which function via cleavage for proprotein maturation in the protein bodies during seed maturation and germination. In conclusion, sweet potato SPAE is probably a functional, senescence-associated gene and its mRNA and protein levels were significantly enhanced in natural and induced senescent leaves. The possible role and function of SPAE associated with bulk protein degradation and mobilization during leaf senescence were also discussed.
In tropical legumes like Glycine, Phaseolus and Vigna sp., ammonia as direct product of symbiotic nitrogen fixation is converted to ureides (allantoin and allantoic acid) and they were translocated to the shoots as nitrogen source. In the xylem sap of soybean in reproductive phase the ureides reached to 60-75% of soluble nitrogen. In nodules infected cells (plastid and mitochondria) and uninfected cells (peroxisome) shares de novo purine biosynthesis and urate oxidation to produce ureides respectively. Current research revealed unique feathers on this symbiotic metabolism, especially on regulation of purine biosynthesis, uricase gene expression and feedback inhibition of ureides to nitrogen fixing activity.
Auxin induces the expression of the two ethylene-biosynthetic genes VR-ACS6 and VR-ACS7 in etiolated mung bean hypocotyls. However, while it also enhances VR-ACS6 expression in light-grown tissues, it does not up-regulate VR-ACS7 expression in these tissues. Here we show that transfer of 3-day-old etiolated seedlings into light quickly reduced the auxin-induced expression of both genes. However, while auxin-induced VR-ACS6 expression recovered after 24 h of light, VR-ACS7 transcription continued to reduce and was almost completely absent at 36 h. Thus, light differentially modulates the expression of the auxin-inducible VR-ACS genes. In hormone-treated etiolated seedlings, VR-ACS7 was primarily induced in the rapidly elongating zones of hypocotyl and epicotyl tissues, while auxin-induced VR-ACS6 mRNA was evenly distributed throughout the whole seedling. VR-ACS7 promoter-driven beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity in auxin-treated etiolated transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings was observed in the highly elongating zones of the hypocotyl. During de-etiolation, the GUS activity gradually declined to become confined to the uppermost region of hypocotyls. In situ mRNA localization studies showed that in etiolated mung bean hypocotyls, the auxin-dependent VR-ACS7 transcript was predominantly present in the epidermis, which is the driving site for auxin-mediated elongation. Thus, it appears that the modulation by light of auxin-induced VR-ACS7 expression may correlate closely with the elongation growth response in early seedling development.
Phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC) catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate to generate inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol, both of which act as secondary messengers in animal cells. In this report, we identified in Vigna radiata L. (mung bean) three distinct partial cDNAs (pVr-PLC1, pVr-PLC2, and pVr-PLC3), which encode forms of putative PI-PLC. All three Vr-PLC genes were transcriptionally active and displayed unique patterns of expression. The Vr-PLC1 and Vr-PLC2 transcripts were constitutively expressed to varying degrees in every tissue of mung bean plants examined. In contrast, the Vr-PLC3 mRNA level was very low under normal growth conditions and was rapidly induced in an abscisic acid-independent manner under environmental stress conditions (drought and high salinity). An isolated genomic clone, about 8.2 kb in length, showed that Vr-PLC1 and Vr-PLC3 are in tandem array in the mung bean genome. The predicted primary sequence of Vr-PLC3 (M(r)=67.4 kDa) is reminiscent of the delta-isoform of animal enzymes which contain core sequences found in typical PI-PLCs, such as the catalytic domain comprising X and Y motifs, a lipid-binding C2 domain, and the less conserved EF-hand domain. Results of in vivo targeting experiment using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) showed that the GFP-Vr-PLC3 fusion protein was localized primarily to the plasma membrane of the Arabidopsis protoplast. The C2 domain was essential for Vr-PLC3 to be targeted to the plasma membrane. The possible biological functions of stress-responsive Vr-PLC3 in mung bean plants are discussed.
An iron-superoxide dismutase (FeSOD) with an unusual subcellular localization, VuFeSOD, has been purified from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) nodules and leaves. The enzyme has two identical subunits of 27 kD that are not covalently bound. Comparison of its N-terminal sequence (NVAGINLL) with the cDNA-derived amino acid sequence showed that VuFeSOD is synthesized as a precursor with seven additional amino acids. The mature protein was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant enzyme was used to generate a polyclonal monospecific antibody. Phylogenetic and immunological data demonstrate that there are at least two types of FeSODs in plants. An enzyme homologous to VuFeSOD is present in soybean (Glycine max) and common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) nodules but not in alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and pea (Pisum sativum) nodules. The latter two species also contain FeSODs in the leaves and nodules, but the enzymes are presumably localized to the chloroplasts and plastids. In contrast, immunoblots of the soluble nodule fraction and immunoelectron microscopy of cryo-processed nodule sections demonstrate that VuFeSOD is localized to the cytosol. Immunoblot analysis showed that the content of VuFeSOD protein increases in senescent nodules with active leghemoglobin degradation, suggesting a direct or indirect (free radical-mediated) role of the released Fe in enzyme induction. Therefore, contrary to the widely held view, FeSODs in plants are not restricted to the chloroplasts and may become an important defensive mechanism against the oxidative stress associated with senescence.
ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3 (EIN3) is a transcription factor involved in the ethylene signal transduction pathway in Arabidopsis. Two full-length cDNA clones, pVR-EIL1 and pVR-EIL2, encoding EIN3-LIKE proteins were isolated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and by screening the cDNA library of mung bean (Vigna radiata) hypocotyls. VR-EIL1 and VR-EIL2 share 70% identity and display varying degrees of sequence conservation (39%-65%) with previously isolated EIN3 homologs from Arabidopsis, tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) plants. Gel retardation assay revealed that both VR-EILs were able to interact specifically with optimal binding sequence-1, the recently identified optimal binding sequence for tobacco TEIL, with the binding of VR-EIL2 being more efficient than that of VR-EIL1. Transient expression analysis using a VR-EIL::smGFP fusion gene in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells indicated that the VR-EIL proteins were effectively targeted to the nucleus. The fusion protein of VR-EIL2 with GAL4 DNA-binding domain strongly activated transcription of a reporter gene in yeast cells, and an essential domain for transcription-stimulating activity was localized to the amino-terminal acidic region that consists of 50 amino acid residues. In contrast with what has been previously found in EIN3- and TEIL-overexpressing Arabidopsis plants, transgenic tobacco seedlings expressing the VR-EIL genes under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter did not exhibit a constitutive triple response. Instead, they displayed a markedly enhanced proliferation of root hairs, one of the typical ethylene response phenotypes, and increased sensitivity to exogenous ethylene. In addition, the pathogenesis-related (PR) genes encoding beta-1,3-glucanase, osmotin, and PR1 were constitutively expressed in 35S::VR-EIL lines without added ethylene, and were hyperinduced in response to ethylene treatment. These results indicate that VR-EILs are functional in tobacco cells, thereby effectively transactivating the GCC-box-containing PR genes and enhancing sensitivity to ethylene. The possible physiological role of VR-EILs is discussed in the light of the suggestion that they are active components of the ethylene-signaling pathway and their heterologous expressions constitutively turn on a subset of ethylene responses in tobacco plants.
Vigna mungo is one of the large-seeded grain legumes that has not yet been transformed. We report here for the first time the production of morphologically normal and fertile transgenic plants from cotyledonary-node explants inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens carrying binary vector pCAMBIA2301, the latter of which contains a neomycin phosphotransferase ( nptII) gene and a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene ( uidA) interrupted with an intron. The transformed green shoots, selected and rooted on medium containing kanamycin, tested positive for nptII and uidA genes by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. These shoots were established in soil and grown to maturity to collect the seeds. Mechanical wounding of the explants prior to inoculation with Agrobacterium, time lag in regeneration due to removal of the cotyledons from explants and a second round of selection at the rooting stage were found to be critical for transformation. Analysis of T(0) plants showed the expression and integration of uidA into the plant genome. GUS activity in leaves, roots, flowers, anthers and pollen grains was detected by histochemical assay. PCR analysis of T(1) progeny revealed a Mendelian transgene inheritance pattern. The transformation frequency was 1%, and 6-8 weeks were required for the generation of transgenics.
DNA polymerase eta (Pol eta) is a member of a new class of DNA polymerases that is able to copy DNA containing damaged nucleotides. These polymerases are highly error-prone during copying of unaltered DNA templates. We analyzed the relationship between bypass efficiency and fidelity of DNA synthesis by introducing substitutions for Tyr-52, a highly conserved amino acid, within the human DNA polymerase eta (hPol eta) finger domain. Most substitutions for Tyr-52 caused reduction in bypass of UV-associated damage, measured by the ability to rescue the viability of UV-sensitive yeast cells at a high UV dose. For most mutants, the reduction in bypass ability paralleled the reduction in polymerization activity. Interestingly, the hPol eta Y52E mutant exhibited a greater reduction in bypass efficiency than polymerization activity. The reduction in bypass efficiency was accompanied by an up to 11-fold increase in the incorporation of complementary nucleotides relative to non-complementary nucleotides. The fidelity of DNA synthesis, measured by copying a gapped M13 DNA template in vitro, was also enhanced as much as 15-fold; the enhancement resulted from a decrease in transitions, which were relatively frequent, and a large decrease in transversions. Our demonstration that an amino acid substitution within the active site enhances the fidelity of DNA synthesis by hPol eta, one of the most inaccurate of DNA polymerases, supports the hypothesis that even error-prone DNA polymerases function in base selection.
The regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) levels is achieved in part by high-capacity vacuolar Ca(2+)/H(+) antiporters. An N-terminal regulatory region (NRR) on the Arabidopsis Ca(2+)/H(+) antiporter CAX1 (cation exchanger 1) has been shown previously to regulate Ca(2+) transport by a mechanism of N-terminal auto-inhibition. Here, we examine the regulation of other CAX transporters, both within Arabidopsis and from another plant, mung bean (Vigna radiata), to ascertain if this mechanism is commonly used among Ca(2+)/H(+) antiporters. Biochemical analysis of mung bean VCAX1 expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) showed that N-terminal truncated VCAX1 had approximately 70% greater antiport activity compared with full-length VCAX1. A synthetic peptide corresponding to the NRR of CAX1, which can strongly inhibit Ca(2+) transport by CAX1, could not dramatically inhibit Ca(2+) transport by truncated VCAX1. The N terminus of Arabidopsis CAX3 was also shown to contain an NRR. Additions of either the CAX3 or VCAX1 regulatory regions to the N terminus of an N-terminal truncated CAX1 failed to inhibit CAX1 activity. When fused to N-terminal truncated CAX1, both the CAX3 and VCAX1 regulatory regions could only auto-inhibit CAX1 after mutagenesis of specific amino acids within this NRR region. These findings demonstrate that N-terminal regulation is present in other plant CAX transporters, and suggest distinct regulatory features among these transporters.
The glycosylated forms of abscisic acid (ABA) have been identified from many plant species and are known to be the forms of ABA-catabolism, although their (physiological) roles have not yet been elucidated. ABA-glucosyltransferase (-GTase) is thought to play a key role in the glycosylation of ABA. We isolated an ABA-inducible GTase gene from UDP-GTase homologs obtained from adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) seedlings. The deduced amino acid sequence (accession no. AB065190) showed 30% to 44% identity with the known UDP-GTase homologs. The recombinant protein with a glutathione S-transferase-tag was expressed in Escherichia coli and showed enzymatic activity in an ABA-specific manner. The enzymatic activity was detected over a wide pH range from 5.0 to 9.0, the optimum range being between pH 6.0 and 7.3, in a citrate and Tris-HCl buffer. The product from racemic ABA and UDP-D-glucose was identified to be ABA-GE by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. The recombinant GTase (rAOG) converted 2-trans-(+)-ABA better than (+)-S-ABA and (-)-R-ABA. Although trans-cinnamic acid was slightly converted to its conjugate by the GTase, (-)-PA was not at all. The mRNA level was increased by ABA application or by water stress and wounding. We suggest that the gene encodes an ABA-specific GTase and that its expression is regulated by environmental stress.
Root systems of 28-d-old cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp cv Vita 3: Bradyrhizobium sp. strain CB756) plants bearing nitrogen-fixing nodules in sand culture were exposed to an atmosphere of Ar:O(2) (80:20, v/v) for 48 h and then returned to air. Root systems of control plants were maintained in air throughout. Nodules were harvested at the same times in control and Ar:O(2)-treated root systems. Activities of two enzymes of de novo purine synthesis, glycinamide ribonucleotide transformylase (GART; EC 2.1.2.2), aminoimidazole ribonucleotide synthetase (AIRS; EC 6.3.3.1), uricase (EC 1.7.3.3), and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC; EC 4.1.1.31) were measured together with the protein level of each using immune-specific polyclonal antibodies. AIRS activity and protein both declined to very low levels within 6 h in Ar:O(2) together with a decline in transcript level of pur5, the encoding gene. GART activity, protein, and transcript (pur3) levels were relatively stable. Uricase activity declined in Ar:O(2) as rapidly as AIRS activity but the protein was stable. PEPC activity showed evidence of increased sensitivity to inhibition by malate but the protein level was stable. The data indicate that the flux of fixed N from bacteroids (N(2)-fixing nodule bacteria) is in some way associated with transcriptional control over pur5 and possibly also catabolism of AIRS protein. In contrast, there is limited posttranslational control over GART and PEPC and close posttranslational control over uricase activity. The significance of these different levels of regulation is discussed in relation to the overall control of enhanced expression of plant enzymes in the cowpea symbiosis.
Legume nodules formed by diazotrophic microorganisms are active sites for biological nitrogen fixation (BNF). In tropical regions, a significant part of N supply for soybean, peanut and bean crops is derived from BNF, which is nevertheless often limited by high temperature stress. In contrast, cowpea nodules are very resistant to high temperatures. To understand the molecular bases of thermotolerance during BNF under heat stress, we have used cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism experiments to identify differentially expressed transcripts from cowpea nodules subjected to heat shock treatment. The expression profiles obtained showed approximately 600 bands, 55 up-regulated and nine corresponding to genes repressed by heat stress. Twenty transcript-derived fragments were isolated, cloned and sequenced. The Vigna unguiculata nodule and stress response transcripts present similarities to those that encode low molecular weight heat shock proteins, wound-induced proteins, disease resistance protein, and xylan endohydrolase isoenzyme, as well as different housekeeping genes. The differential expression of 15 genes was confirmed by using Northern blot or reverse Northern hybridization experiments.
We developed a panel of lentiviral vectors that displayed tetracycline-regulated transgene expression over two orders of magnitude in bulk, non-selected populations of transduced cells in vitro and in vivo. The robust expression and homogeneous response indicated that most transduced vector genomes were transcription competent and responsive to regulation, providing the lentiviral vector with a novel competitive advantage for gene transfer. After ex vivo transduction and transplantation of cord blood CD34+ cells into NOD/SCID mice, reporter gene expression could be switched "on" and "off" in human hematopoietic cells in vivo for prolonged times, proving integration of the regulated expression system into long-term repopulating cells. By vector injection into established tumor grafts, we achieved efficient delivery and quantitative regulation of transgene expression in vivo. By these approaches, gene function studies can now be performed in in vivo models of human hematopoiesis and cancer. In the future, regulated lentiviral vectors will improve the safety and efficacy of gene therapy.
Additive, dominance, and epistasis genetic basis of seed yield per plant, number of pods per plant, number of seeds per pod, and 1000 seed weight in mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) have been examined, using Triple Test Cross (TTC) analysis. The material for TTC test was evaluated in two seasons i.e., kharif (July-October) and spring/summer (March-June), at the research station of the Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology (NIAB), Faisalabad, Pakistan. Epistasis was present significantly for number of pods per plant and number of seeds per pod when grown in the spring/summer season (March to June). Partition of epistasis showed that additive x additive ('i' type) interaction was an important component of number of pods per plant, and number of seeds per pod was found to be of both types 'i' type, and additive x dominance, and dominance x dominance ('j' and 'l' type) interactions. This indicated that epistasis might be a non-trivial factor in the inheritance of pods per plant, and seeds per pod in mungbean. The expression of epistasis was influenced differentially by particular genotypes, indicating that a limited number of genotypes may not be sufficient to detect non-allelic interactions for a trait in mungbean. Additive and dominance genetic components were significant for all four traits in kharif season (July to October) but only for seed yield and 1000 seed weight in spring/summer season. This suggests that the genes controlling seed yield per plant, and 1000 seed weight are equally sensitive to the environment. The predominance additive gene action in those traits is not significantly influenced by epistasis, suggesting that improvement of the traits can be achieved through standard selection procedures.
Seeds stored under adverse conditions will reduce the viability of germination as a result of induced aging. We have established a procedure to induce accelerated aging for studying the process of aging in mung bean (Vigna radiata) seeds at the molecular level. A full-length cDNA was isolated from acceleratedly aged mung bean seedlings. The cDNA, VrRH1 (Vigna radiata RNA helicase 1), contains an open reading frame of 2139 bp encoding a protein of 713 amino acids. VrRHI has seven highly conserved motifs including the DEAD box as in the case of other plant RNA helicases. VrRHI was sub-cloned into an expression vector pET-28b (+), over-expressed in Escherichia coli BL 21 and purified by a Ni2+-agarose column. The expressed protein showed double-stranded RNA unwinding and ATPase activities. Either ATP or dATP is required for the unwinding activity, indicating that VrRHI is an ATP/dATP-dependent RNA helicase. Northern blot analysis showed the presence of mRNAs hybridized with a full-length cDNA fragment of VrRHI (VrRH transcripts) in mung bean seeds that were imbibed for 16 to 32 h after accelerated aging treatment. The amount of these mRNAs reached a maximum in 24 h imbibed seeds after the treatment. The accumulation of VrRH transcripts was shown to lead to the appearance of 25S and 18S rRNAs in the imbibed aging mung bean seeds. The results suggest that VrRHI may play a role in the viability of mung bean seeds.
Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Vigna radiata L. Wilczek has been achieved. Hypocotyl and primary leaves excised from 2-day-old in-vitro grown seedlings produced transgenic calli on B(5) basal medium supplemented with 5x10(-6) M BAP, 2.5x10(-6) M each of 2,4-D and NAA and 50 mg l(-1) kanamycin after co-cultivation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains, LBA4404 (pTOK233), EHA105 (pBin9GusInt) and C58C1 (pIG121Hm) all containing beta-glucuronidase (gusA) and neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) marker genes. Transformed calli were found resistant to kanamycin up to 1000 mg(.)l(-1). Gene expression of kanamycin resistance (nptII) and gusA in transformed calli was demonstrated by nptII assay and GUS histochemical analysis, respectively. Stable integration of T-DNA into the genome of transformed calli of mungbean was confirmed by Southern blot analysis. Transgenic calli could not regenerate shoots on B(5) or B(5) containing different cytokinins or auxins alone or in combination. However, for the first time, transformed green shoots showing strong GUS activity were regenerated directly from cotyledonary node explants cultured after co-cultivation with LBA4404 (pTOK233) on B(5) medium containing 6-benzylaminopurine (5x10(-7) M) and 75 mg l(-1) kanamycin. The putative transformed shoots were rooted on B(5)+indole-3-butyric acid (5x10(-6) M) within 10-14 days and resulted plantlets subsequently developed flowers and pods with viable seeds in vitro after 20 days of root induction. The stamens, pollen grains and T(0) seeds showed GUS activity. Molecular analysis of putative transformed plants revealed the integration and expression of transgenes in T(0) plants and their seeds.
Alpha-amylase is expressed at high levels in cotyledons of germinated seeds of Vigna mungo. The mRNA for alpha-amylase appeared in cotyledons of the seeds at 1 d after imbibition started (DAI). Two TGACGT motifs at -445 and at -125 in the promoter region of the gene interacted with nuclear proteins from cotyledons of dry seeds and the activities were detected until 3 DAI. A transient assay with particle bombardment showed that the downstream region from -135 in the promoter was required for high level expression in the cotyledons and the activity was reduced by mutation of the TGACGT motif at -125. The activities to bind the TGACGT motifs were detected in the axes of the seeds at 1 DAI but disappeared at 4 DAI, although the mRNA for alpha-amylase in the axes appeared at 4 DAI and increased in level by 6 DAI. A transient assay experiment showed that a positive regulatory element for the expression in the axes was located in the region from -630 to -453. These results indicated that the TGACGT motif at -125 was required for high level expression of the gene in the cotyledons of the germinated seeds.
Agrobacterium mediated transformation of Vigna sesquipedalis was achieved using cotyledonary node explants prepared from 5 days old seedlings germinated on B5 basal medium, and transformed using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA101, carrying the phosphinothricin-N-acetyltransferase gene and neomycin-3-phosphotransferase-II gene as selectable markers and GUS gene as a screenable marker. Gene transfer was achieved by inoculation of cotyledonary node explants with a bacterial suspension and a further cocultivation with Agrobacterium suspension for 3 days on B5 basal medium. Only 10% of the explants were transformed with EHA101 and exhibited transient expression of GUS genes, while 2% of shoots exhibited stable integration of genes and developed into plants. Transgenic character of tissues was confirmed by GUS assay and Southern analysis. Histological analysis of GUS gene expression directly after cocultivation revealed a high competence of subepidermal cell layers of cotyledonary node and associated cotyledons for transformation with Agrobacterium.
Four cultivars of related species, common bean and cowpea, which exhibit different degrees of drought resistance, were submitted to water stress by withholding irrigation. Drought induced an increase in endoproteolytic activity, being higher in susceptible cultivars (bean) than in tolerant ones (cowpea). An aspartic protease activity was found to be strongly induced especially in bean. From a cowpea leaf cDNA library, a full length aspartic protease precursor cDNA was obtained. Transcript accumulation in response to water stress indicated that the expression of the gene was constitutive in cowpea and transcriptionally up-regulated in bean. The results showed that drought-tolerant and drought-susceptible bean plants differ regarding aspartic protease precursor gene expression.
A cDNA (Vupat1) encoding a predicted 43 kDa protein was isolated from drought-stressed cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) leaves. It has homology with patatin, a potato tuber storage protein with lipolytic acyl hydrolase activity. The recombinant protein VUPAT1 expressed in the baculovirus system displays preferentially galactolipid acyl hydrolase activity. Phospholipids are very slowly hydrolyzed and apparently triacylglycerols are not deacylated. Vupat1 promoter contains putative drought-inducible sequences. Northern blots showed that gene expression is stimulated by drought stress and is more pronounced in a drought-sensitive cultivar than in a drought-tolerant one. An involvement in drought-induced galactolipid degradation is proposed for VUPAT1.
Two cDNAs encoding putative phosphatidate phosphatases (PAPs) designated VuPAP-alpha and VuPAP-beta were cloned in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) leaves. The predicted proteins have six membrane-spanning regions in common with animal type-2 PAPs. Unlike VuPAP-beta, VuPAP-alpha has an N-terminal transit peptide and is targeted in vitro to the chloroplasts. Gene expression of VuPAP-beta is stimulated by rapid air-desiccation of leaves and VuPAP-alpha transcripts increase during rehydration of plants exposed to drought-like conditions.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is a potent paracrine mediator of stromal/epithelial interactions, which is secreted as a matrix-associated inactive precursor (pro-HGF) and locally activated by tightly controlled urokinase cleavage. It induces proliferation and motility in epithelial and endothelial cells, and plays a role in physiological and pathological processes involving invasive cell growth, such as angiogenesis and parenchymal regeneration. We now report that HGF induces directional migration and cytokine secretion in human monocytes. Monocyte activation by endotoxin and IL-1beta results in the up-regulation of the HGF receptor expression and in the induction of cell-associated pro-HGF convertase activity, thus enhancing cell responsiveness to the factor. Furthermore, we provide evidence for the secretion of biologically active HGF by activated monocytes, implying an autocrine stimulation. Altogether, these data indicate that monocyte function is modulated by HGF in a paracrine/autocrine manner, and provide a new link between stromal environment and mononuclear phagocytes.
Cultivated and wild species of the genus Vigna were screened for their flavonoid content. Flavonoid HPLC analyses clearly showed that cultivated lines of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) are very similar from a qualitative point of view, always showing three flavonoid aglycons: quercetin, kaempferol, and isorhamnetin. In addition, a positive relationship between resistance/susceptibility characteristics against aphids and flavonoid glycoside content of cowpea lines was found. The resistant lines showed a flavonoid content higher than that of susceptible ones. In vitro bioassays proved that, among endogenous flavonoids, quercetin and isorhamnetin possess a good inhibitory aphid reproduction rate. Flavonoid HPLC analyses of wild Vigna species supported evidence for the existence of different flavonoid chemotypes in some species of section Vigna. There are kaempferol chemotypes, kaempferol being the main aglycon detected, quercetin chemotypes, containing quercetin glycosides only, and two isorhamnetin chemotypes. When the resistance characteristics to aphids in different chemotypes of the same species were tested, it became evident that quercetin or isorhamnetin chemotypes showed a higher level of resistance compared to kaempferol chemotypes in the same species, thus demonstrating a direct involvement of quercetin or isorhamnetin in the resistance mechanism. These results can provide useful information for further studies on gene expression of resistance factors.
Lentiviral vectors are tools for gene transfer derived from lentiviruses. From their first application to now they have been strongly developed in design, in biosafety and in their ability of transgene expression into target cells. Primate and non-primate derived lentiviral vectors are now available and with both types of systems a lot of studies tuned to improve their performances in a large number of tissues are ongoing. Here we review the state of the art of lentiviral vector systems discussing their potential for gene therapy.
Four cDNA clones named CPRD (cowpea responsive to dehydration) corresponding to genes that are responsive to dehydration were isolated using differential screening of a cDNA library prepared from 10-h dehydrated drought-tolerant cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) plants. One of the cDNA clones has a homology to 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (named VuNCED1), which is supposed to be involved in abscisic acid (ABA) biosynthesis. The GST (glutathione S-transferase)-fused protein indicates a 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase activity, which catalyzes the cleavage of 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid. The N-terminal region of the VuNCED1 protein directed the fused sGFP (synthetic green-fluorescent protein) into the plastids of the protoplasts, indicating that the N-terminal sequence acts as a transit peptide. Both the accumulation of ABA and expression of VuNCED1 were strongly induced by drought stress in the 8-d-old cowpea plant, whereas drought stress did not trigger the expression of VuABA1 (accession no. AB030295) gene that encodes zeaxanthin epoxidase. These results indicate that the VuNCED1 cDNA encodes a 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase and that its product has a key role in the synthesis of ABA under drought stress.
We have identified and characterized protein factors from mung bean (Vigna radiata) nuclear extracts that specifically bind the single-stranded G-rich telomeric DNA repeats. Nuclear extracts were prepared from three different types of plant tissue, radicle, hypocotyl, and root, in order to examine changes in the expression patterns of telomere-binding proteins during the development of mung bean. At least three types of specific complexes (A, B, and C) were detected by gel retardation assays with synthetic telomere and nuclear extract from radicle tissue, whereas the two major faster-migrating complexes (A and B) were formed with nuclear extracts from hypocotyl and root tissues. Gel retardation assays also revealed differences in relative amount of each complex forming activity in radicle, hypocotyl, and root nuclear extracts. These data suggest that the expression of telomere-binding proteins is developmentally regulated in plants, and that the factor involved in the formation of complex C may be required during the early stages of development. The binding factors have properties of proteins and are hence designated as mung bean G-rich telomere-binding proteins (MGBP). MGBPs bind DNA substrates with three or more single-stranded TTTAGGG repeats, while none of them show binding affinity to either double-stranded or single-stranded C-rich telomeric DNA. These proteins have a lower affinity to human telomeric sequences than to plant telomeric sequences and do not exhibit a significant binding activity to Tetrahymena telomeric sequence or mutated plant telomeric sequences, indicating that their binding activities are specific to plant telomere. Furthermore, RNase treatment of the nuclear extracts did not affect the complex formation activities. This result indicates that the single-stranded telomere-binding activities may be attributed to a simple protein but not a ribonucleoprotein. The ability of MGBPs to bind specifically the single-stranded TTTAGGG repeats may suggest their in vivo functions in the chromosome ends of plants.
Stachyose is the major soluble carbohydrate in seeds of a number of important crop species. It is synthesized from raffinose and galactinol by the action of stachyose synthase (EC 2.4.1.67). We report here on the identification of a cDNA encoding stachyose synthase from seeds of adzuki bean (Vigna angularis Ohwi et Ohashi). Based on internal amino acid sequences of the enzyme purified from adzuki bean, oligonucleotides were designed and used to amplify corresponding sequences from adzuki bean cDNA by RT-PCR, followed by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE-PCR). The complete cDNA sequence comprised 3046 nucleotides and included an open reading frame which encoded a polypeptide of 857 amino acid residues. The entire coding region was amplified by PCR, engineered into the baculovirus expression vector pVL1393 and introduced into Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf21) insect cells for heterologous expression. The recombinant protein was immunologically reactive with polyclonal antibodies raised against stachyose synthase purified from adzuki bean and was shown to be a functional stachyose synthase with the same catalytic properties as its native counterpart. High levels of stachyose synthase mRNA were transiently accumulated midway through seed development, and the enzyme was also present in mature seeds and during germination.
Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) and Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean) are permissive hosts for southern cowpea mosaic virus (SCPMV) and southern bean mosaic virus (SBMV), respectively. Neither of these two sobemoviruses systemically infects the permissive host of the other. Although bean cells are permissive for SCPMV RNA synthesis, they do not support the assembly of this virus. Thus, the host range restriction of SCPMV in bean may occur at the level of movement and may involve the inability of SCPMV to assemble in this host. In this study, it was demonstrated that SCPMV accumulates in an encapsidated form in the inoculated and systemic leaves of bean plants following coinoculation with SBMV. No evidence was observed that the SCPMV that accumulated in coinoculated bean plants had an altered host range relative to wild-type SCPMV. These results suggested that SBMV complemented the host range restriction of SCPMV in bean. Additional experiments demonstrated that cowpea protoplasts are permissive for SBMV RNA synthesis and assembly. It was concluded from these results that the host range restriction of SBMV in cowpea occurs at the level of movement. In mixed infections of cowpea with SCPMV and SBMV, the latter was recovered from the inoculated but not the systemic leaves. Its recovery from the inoculated leaves, however, was not dependent on the presence of SCPMV in the inoculum. From these results, it was concluded that SCPMV did not complement the host range restriction of SBMV in cowpea.
Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) markedly increased ethylene production by inducing the expression of three 1aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) synthase cDNAs (pVR-ACS1, pVR-ACS6 and pVR-ACS7) in mung bean hypocotyls. Results from nuclear run-on transcription assay and RNA gel blot studies revealed that all three genes were transcriptionally active displaying unique patterns of induction by IAA and various hormones in etiolated hypocotyls. Particularly, 24-epibrassinolide (BR), an active brassinosteroid, specifically enhanced the expression of VR-ACS7 by a distinct temporal induction mechanism compared to that of IAA. In addition, BR synergistically increased the IAA-induced VR-ACS6 and VR-ACS7 transcript levels, while it effectively abolished both the IAA- and kinetin-induced accumulation of VR-ACS1 mRNA. In light-grown plants, VR-ACS1 was induced by IAA in roots, and VR-ACS6 in epicotyls. IAA- and BR-treatments were not able to increase the VR-ACS7 transcript in the light-grown tissues. These results indicate that the expression of ACC synthase multigene family is regulated by complex hormonal and developmental networks in a gene- and tissue-specific manner in mung bean plants. The VR-ACS7 gene was isolated, and chimeric fusion between the 2.4 kb 5'-upstream region and the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene was constructed and introduced into Nicotiana tabacum. Analysis of transgenic tobacco plants revealed the VR-ACS7 promoter-driven GUS activity at a highly localized region of the hypocotyl-root junction of control seedlings, while a marked induction of GUS activity was detected only in the hypocotyl region of the IAA-treated transgenic seedlings where rapid cell elongation occurs. Although there was a modest synergistic effect of BR on the IAA-induced GUS activity, BR alone failed to increase the GUS activity, suggesting that induction of VR-ACS7 occurs via separate signaling pathways in response to IAA and BR. A scheme of the multiple regulatory pathways for the expression of ACC synthase multigene family by auxin and BR is presented.
A rat kidney epithelial cell line expressing the rat neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1 R) was used to investigate the relationship between receptor phosphorylation and desensitization. Substance P (SP) maximally stimulated cellular inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) production 14-fold within 3 s, after which cellular IP3 levels rapidly diminished to near basal levels in the continuing presence of SP. SP also caused concentration-dependent phosphorylation of the NK-1R, and this effect was blocked by a receptor antagonist. Stimulation with 100 nM SP for as little as 2 s resulted in 90% desensitization of the receptor to restimulation by SP, and near-maximal receptor phosphorylation was observed at 5 s. Receptor desensitization was not affected by agents that affect protein kinase A. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) also caused phosphorylation and desensitization of the receptor but with slower kinetics and to a lesser extent than SP. PMA- but not SP-induced NK-1 R desensitization and phosphorylation were abolished by the protein kinase C inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide 1. The concentration-response curves for SP-stimulated IP3 signaling and desensitization were similar, but the curve for NK-1R phosphorylation was shifted to the right and was steeper, suggesting that the relationship between desensitization and phosphorylation is complex. These results show that both rapid homologous and rapid heterologous NK-1R desensitizations may be mediated by receptor phosphorylation but occur via distinct mechanisms with different kinetics and efficacies.
While using YIp356 and YEp356R lacZ reporter plasmids, we found lacZ expression driven by the ARG2 promoter to be much higher in cells grown on a non-glucose carbon source than in glucose-grown cells (5-10-fold higher on galactose and up to 40-fold higher on ethanol). Furthermore, expression increased 30-fold upon shifting from a high-glucose to a low-glucose medium. This carbon source regulation requires Snf1p and possibly Ssn6p. It appears, however, to be artefactually mediated by plasmid sequences located upstream from the multicloning site. This emerged from the following observations: (a) the derepressive effect disappears if any extra piece of DNA is inserted upstream from the ARG2 promoter; and (b) similar derepression on low glucose is observed with another yeast promoter (ARG11), provided that the flanking 5' region is short. We determined that the cis-elements responsible for this physiologically irrelevant glucose regulation are located between positions 636 and 879 of the pUC18 DNA sequence.
A genomic clone for VR-ACS6, an isozyme of auxin-inducible ACC synthase of mungbean, was isolated, and its promoter activity was examined in transgenic tobacco. The clone contained 1,612 bp long 5' untranscribed region and its coding sequence consisted of three exons and two introns. Genomic Southern hybridization indicated that VR-ACS6 is a single copy gene. The transcription initiation site was a cytosine present at 231-base upstream the translation start codon. The VR-ACS6 promoter contained DNA sequences homologous to various functionally identified auxin-responsive elements. To demonstrate hormonal response of the promoter region, transgenic tobacco plants carrying the 1,719 bp VR-ACS6 promoter/-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion gene were generated. Strong GUS expression occurred by auxin treatment of leaves of T0 transformants and hypocotyls of T1 etiolated seedlings. Magnitude of the response to auxin was dose-dependent, and the increased GUS activity was detected at 0.1 microM and higher concentrations of IAA. Other plant hormones did not induce GUS activity, but greatly modified the response to auxin. Cytokinin enhanced the IAA-induced expression of GUS reporter gene, whereas ABA and ethylene suppressed the expression. These characteristics of VR-ACS6 promoter activity in transgenic tobacco are in good accordance with the expression patterns of the gene in mungbean hypocotyls. Histochemical staining showed that GUS activity was evident in both etiolated and light grown seedings treated with IAA. Cytokinin enhanced the intensity of auxin-induced GUS stain and also expanded the stained area, whereas ABA and ethylene reduced both intensity and area of the stain.
Phospholipase D, a major lipid-degrading enzyme in plants, was studied in two cultivars of Vigna unguiculata L.Walp, differing in their tolerance to drought (cv. EPACE-1, drought-tolerant, and cv. 1183, drought-susceptible). Enzymatic activities, measured with 14C-PC as substrate, increased when plants were submitted to water stress, the increase being much higher in the drought-sensitive cultivar. A 2911 bp cDNA encoding a putative phospholipase D (VuPLD1) was isolated from a cDNA library prepared from V. unguiculata leaves. The deduced amino acid sequence (809 residues) shows 85.5% identity and 91.3% similarity to that of PLD from Ricinus communis. The expression of the VuPLD1 gene in the leaves is differently modulated by water deficit, depending on the intensity of stress and the tolerance or sensitivity of the plants. In the drought-susceptible V. unguiculata cv. 1183, it readily increased under water stress, reaching maximum values at mild water deficit (-1.5 MPa). In the drought-tolerant cv. EPACE-1, VuPLD1 mRNA remained low throughout the whole drought treatment. Dehydration of leaves led to a dramatic increase in transcript level in both cultivars. Changes in protein amounts semi-quantified by immunoblotting correlated well with variations in transcript steady-state level. Taken together, these results showed that phospholipase D in cowpea plants is essentially regulated at the transcriptional level, and that gene expression is strongly stimulated even by moderate water deficit in the drought-sensitive plant. On the contrary, the drought-tolerant plant presents a remarkable stability of PLD gene expression in conditions of water stress.
The ornithine transaminase (otaA) gene of Aspergillus nidulans has been cloned by transformation of the A. nidulans pro-ota- mutant strain with a cosmid gene library. The otaA gene contains two introns and potentially codes for a 453-aa-long protein. The deduced amino-acid sequence is homologous to known ornithine transaminases from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Plasmodium falciparum, Vigna aconitifolia, rat, mouse and man, particularly in the pyridoxal phosphate-binding domain. The expression of the otaA gene is specifically induced by arginine, and is also under the control of nitrogen-metabolite and carbon-catabolite repression. Regulation of the gene occurs at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. The promoter region of otaA contains putative AREA and CREA binding-sites. Fusion proteins containing AREA or CREA DNA-binding domains bind some of these sites. CREA binding-sites correspond very well to the CREA-binding consensus sequence which is SYGGRG. AREA binding-sites are composed of GATT sequences which are not typical binding sites for the GATA - binding family of transcription factors.
The nodulation factors (Nod factors) of Rhizobium etli and R. loti carry a 4-O-acetyl-L-fucosyl group at the reducing end. It has been claimed, based on sequence analysis, that NolL from R. loti participates in the 4-O-acetylation of the fucosyl residue of the Nod factors, as an acetyl-transferase (D. B. Scott, C. A. Young, J. M. Collins-Emerson, E. A. Terzaghi, E. S. Rockman, P. A. Lewis, and C. E. Pankhurst. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 9:187-197, 1996). Further support for this hypothesis was obtained by studying the production of Nod factors in an R. etli nolL::Km mutant. Chromatographic and mass spectrometry analysis of the Nod factors produced by this strain showed that they lack the acetyl-fucosyl substituent, having a fucosyl group instead. Acetyl-fucosylation was restored upon complementation with a wild-type nolL gene. These results indicate that the nolL gene determines 4-O-acetylation of the fucosyl residue in Nod factors. Analysis of the predicted NolL polypeptide suggests a transmembranal location and that it belongs to the family of integral membrane transacylases (J. M. Slauch, A. A. Lee, M. J. Mahan, and J. J. Mekalanos. J. Bacteriol. 178:5904-5909, 1996). NolL from R. loti was also proposed to function as a transporter; our results show that NolL does not determine a differential secretion of Nod factors from the cell. We also performed plant assays that indicate that acetylation of the fucose conditions efficient nodulation by R. etli of some Phaseolus vulgaris cultivars, as well as of an alternate host (Vigna umbellata).
Ferritin gene expression has been demonstrated in a variety of plants including maize, Arabidopsis, cowpeas, soybeans, beans and peas. Most available evidence shows that the mature protein is located in plastids and its production is under gene transcriptional control. In maize, two different ferritin genes have been identified; they were found to express protein under different physiological conditions. Only single gene products have been found until now in the other plants, with the exception of cowpeas (Vigna unguiculata). Our previous work with cowpeas [Wicks and Entsch (1993) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 192, 813-819] showed the existence of a family of at least three ferritin genes, each coding for a protein subunit with a unique amino acid sequence. Here we report the discovery of a fourth active gene in cowpeas and present the full cDNA sequences for two of the four known members of the cowpea gene family. We also provide preliminary evidence for a family of ferritin genes in soybeans (Glycine max) related to that in cowpeas. We conclude that a family of genes is probably present in all higher plants. We have used quantitative reverse transcriptase-mediated PCR to show that each of the four members of the cowpea ferritin gene family expresses mRNA in leaves and roots under normal growth with a complete nutrient supply. The results clearly show a marked differential pattern of mRNA levels formed during development from the four genes. We conclude that the composition of plant ferritin molecules from plant leaf extracts is probably a complex mixture of subunits, which might be different in roots and in leaves.
Eutypine, 4-hydroxy-3-(3-methyl-3-butene-1-ynyl) benzyl aldehyde, is a toxin produced by Eutypa lata, the causal agent of eutypa dieback of grapevines. It has previously been demonstrated that tolerance of some cultivars to this disease was correlated with their capacity to convert eutypine to the corresponding alcohol, eutypinol, which lacks phytotoxicity. We have thus purified to homogeneity a protein from Vigna radiata that exhibited eutypine-reducing activity and have isolated the corresponding cDNA. This encodes an NADPH-dependent reductase of 36 kDa that we have named Vigna radiata eutypine-reducing enzyme (VR-ERE), based on the capacity of a recombinant form of the protein to reduce eutypine into eutypinol. The strongest homologies (86.8%) of VR-ERE at the amino acid level were found with CPRD14, a drought-inducible gene of unknown function, isolated from Vigna unguiculata and with an aromatic alcohol dehydrogenase (71.7%) from Eucalyptus gunnii. Biochemical characterization of VR-ERE revealed that a variety of compounds containing an aldehyde group can act as substrates. However, the highest affinity was observed with 3-substituted benzaldehydes. Expression of a VR-ERE transgene in Vitis vinifera cells cultured in vitro conferred resistance to the toxin. This discovery opens up new biotechnological approaches for the generation of grapevines resistant to eutypa dieback.
Inoculation of Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) with transcripts synthesized in vitro from a genome-length cDNA clone of the cowpea strain of southern bean mosaic virus (SBMV-C) resulted in a systemic SBMV-C infection of this host. Capped RNA was about five times more infectious than uncapped RNA as determined by a local lesion assay. The SBMV-C cDNA clone was also used for mutagenesis of the four SBMV-C open reading frames (ORFs). ORF1, ORF3, and coat protein (CP) mutants were not infectious in cowpea. Electroporation of cowpea protoplasts with mutant transcripts demonstrated that the ORF1, ORF3, and CP gene products were not required for SBMV-C RNA synthesis, and the ORF1 and ORF3 gene products were not required for SBMV-C assembly. From these results, it was concluded that the ORF1 and ORF3 proteins and the CP are required for SBMV-C cell-to-cell movement. One of the ORF3 mutants pSBMV2-UAA1833 contained a nonsense codon between the predicted -1 ribosomal frameshift site (SBMV-C nucleotides 1796-1802) and a potential ORF3 translation initiation codon at SBMV-C nucleotide 1895. The lack of infectivity of this mutant suggested that ORF3 was expressed by a -1 ribosomal frameshift in ORF2 rather than by initiation of translation at nucleotide 1895.
Two different cDNA clones, MsP5CS-1 and MsP5CS-2, encoding delta1 -pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthase (P5CS). the first enzyme of the proline biosynthetic pathway, were isolated from a lambdaZap-cDNA library constructed from salt stressed Medicago sativa roots. MsP5CS-1 (2.6 kb) has an open reading frame of 717 amino acids, as well as a non-spliced intron at a position corresponding to the evolutionary fusion point of the bacterial proA and proB genes. MsP5CS-2 (1.25 kb) is a partial clone. The clones share 65% identity in nucleotide sequences, 74% homology in deduced amino acid sequences, and both show a high similarity to Vigna aconitifolia and Arabidopsis thaliana P5CS cDNA clones. Southern blot analysis confirmed the presence of two different P5CS genes. The effect of salinity on the transcription of MsP5CS-1 and MsP5CS-2 in roots was studied, using northern blot analysis and a RT-PCR approach. A rapid increase in the steady-state transcript level of both genes in roots was observed by RT-PCR upon exposure of hydroponically grown 6-day old seedlings to 90 mM NaCl, suggesting that both are salt-inducible genes, yet a higher response was observed for MsP5CS-2.
Survivin is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family. We investigated the antiapoptotic mechanism of Survivin, as well as its expression in 60 human tumor cell lines used for the National Cancer Institute's anticancer drug screening program. In cotransfection experiments, cell death induced by Bax or Fas (CD 95) was partially inhibited (mean +/- SD, 65% +/- 8%) by Survivin, whereas XIAP, another IAP family member, almost completely blocked cell death (93% +/- 4%) under the same conditions. Survivin and XIAP also protected 293 cells from apoptosis induced by overexpression of procaspase-3 and -7 and inhibited the processing of these zymogens into active caspases. In vitro binding experiments indicated that, like other IAP-family proteins, Survivin binds specifically to the terminal effector cell death proteases, caspase-3 and -7, but not to the proximal initiator protease caspase-8. Using a cell-free system in which cytosolic extracts were derived from control- or Survivin-transfected cells and where caspases were activated either by addition of cytochrome c and dATP or by adding recombinant active caspase-8, Survivin was able to substantially reduce caspase activity, as measured by cleavage of a tetrapeptide substrate, AspGluValAsp-aminofluorocoumarin. Similar results were obtained in intact cells when Survivin was overexpressed by gene transfection and caspase activation was induced by the anticancer drug etoposide. Survivin was expressed in all 60 cancer cell lines analyzed, with highest levels in breast and lung cancers and lowest levels in renal cancers. These findings indicate that Survivin, which is commonly expressed in human tumor cell lines, can bind the effector cell death proteases caspase-3 and -7 in vitro and inhibits caspase activity and cell death in cells exposed to diverse apoptotic stimuli. Although quantitative differences may exist, these observations suggest commonality in the mechanisms used by IAP-family proteins to suppress apoptosis.
Transcriptional regulators of the lysR family largely control the expression of bacterial symbiotic genes. Rhizobium sp. NGR234 contains at least four members of this family: two resemble nodD, while two others are more closely related to syrM. Part of the extremely broad host range of NGR234 can be attributed to nodD1, although the second gene shares a high degree of DNA sequence homology with nodD2 of R. fredii USDA191. A nodD2 mutant of NGR234 was constructed by insertional mutagenesis. This mutant (NGR omega nodD2) was deficient in nitrogen fixation on Vigna unguiculata and induced pseudonodules on Tephrosia vogelii. Several other host plants were tested, but no correlation could be drawn between the phenotype and nodule morphology. Moreover, nodD2 has a negative effect on the production of Nod factors: mutation of this gene results in a fivefold increase in Nod factor production. Surprisingly, while the structure of Nod factors from free-living cultures of NGR omega nodD2 remained unchanged, those from V. unguiculata nodules induced by the same strain are non-fucosylated and have a lower degree of oligomerization. In other words, developmental regulation of Nod factor production is also abolished in this mutant. Competitive RNA hybridizations, gene fusions and mobility shift assays confirmed that nodD2 downregulates expression of the nodABC operon.
Vacuolar proton-translocating inorganic pyrophosphatase and H(+)-ATPase acidify the vacuoles and power the vacuolar secondary active transport systems in plants. Developmental changes in the transcription of the pyrophosphatase in growing hypocotyls of mung bean (Vigna radiata) were investigated. The cDNA clone for the mung bean enzyme contains an uninterrupted open reading frame of 2298 bp, coding for a polypeptide of 766 amino acids. Hypocotyls were divided into elongating and mature regions. RNA analysis revealed that the transcript level of the pyrophosphatase was high in the elongating region of the 3-d-old hypocotyl but was extremely low in the mature region of the 5-d-old hypocotyl. The level of transcript of the 68-kD subunit of H(+)-ATPase also decreased after cell maturation. In the elongating region, the proton-pumping activity of pyrophosphatase on the basis of membrane protein was 3 times higher than that of H(+)-ATPase. After cell maturation, the pyrophosphatase activity decreased to 30% of that in the elongating region. The decline in the pyrophosphatase activity was in parallel with a decrease in the enzyme protein content. These findings indicate that the level of the pyrophosphatase, a main vacuolar proton pump in growing cells, is negatively regulated after cell maturation at the transcriptional level.
A cDNA clone encoding a daylily (Hemerocallis spp.) thiolprotease (SEN11), whose expression is strongly upregulated in flower tepal senescence, has been isolated. The amino acid sequence, deduced from the nucleotide sequence, showed highest similarity to plant thiolproteases of Vigna mungo, Phaseolus vulgaris and Hemerocallis (SEN102), and contains a putative ER retention signal that has been described in Vigna mungo. SEN102 and SEN11 transcripts were not detectable in flower buds at the opening stage, but two peaks of transcripts were seen after 9 h and 19 h, in both petals and sepals, when wilting symptoms were apparent. The pattern of protease activity migrating on a 26.3 kDa protein was similar to the SEN102 and SEN11 transcript profiles. These two genes were also expressed in stamens and leaves, but their transcripts were undetectable in carpels and rhizomes. The expression of SEN102 was lower in the senescent leaf than in the green leaf. The pattern of expression of these genes suggests their involvement in the protein hydrolysis occurring in tepals at the late senescence stage, whereas in leaves they could be involved in the constitutive protein turnover machinery. Exogenous gibberellic acid application to cut flowers increased transcripts of both genes.
Differential screening, aimed at the isolation of cDNA clones of mRNAs whose accumulation is influenced by GA3, resulted in the isolation of a cDNA clone of an mRNA whose level was decreased by GA3 in segments of epicotyls of Vigna angularis. The putative protein encoded by this cDNA resembled the 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate oxidases (ACC oxidases) identified in other plant species (about 80% homology at the amino acid level). Thus, the corresponding gene was designated AB-ACO1 (azuki bean ACC oxidase). GA3 also decreased the activity of ACC oxidase in azuki bean epicotyls, but it did not decrease the rate of ethylene evolution. In fact, GA3 increased the rate of ethylene evolution and the level of ACC. Thus, GA3 seemed to increase the production of ethylene by promoting the synthesis of ACC.
Proteinase A is a papain-like cysteine endopeptidase of vetch (Vicia sativa L.) which was assumed to initiate storage-globulin breakdown just after the onset of seed germination. This enzyme was purified from cotyledons of vetch seedlings. On gelatin-containg SDS gels, active proteinase A migrated with an apparent molecular mass of 21 kDa, whereas after heat denaturation its molecular size on SDS/PAGE was 29 kDa. Although proteinase A is capable of hydrolyzing storage globulins in vitro it could not be localized in the protein-body fraction of cotyledons from germinating seeds. cDNA clones encoding proteinase A precursor have been obtained by PCR. The precursor is composed of an N-terminal signal sequence followed by a propeptide, the region encoding mature proteinase A, and a C-terminal KDEL sequence. Mature proteinase A with a derived molecular mass of 25,244 Da does not have the KDEL sequence. The derived amino acid sequence of the proteinase A precursor is 78.2% identical to sulfhydryl-endopeptidase (SH-EP), a cysteine endopeptidase from germinating Vigna mungo seedlings. Northern blot analysis indicated that proteinase A mRNA appears de novo in cotyledons of 1-day-germinated vetch seeds, where its amount increases up to day 6. No proteinase A mRNA was detected in other vetch organs, not even in the embryo axis, which contains stored globulins. By means of antibodies raised against the purified and against recombinantly produced proteinase A, the 29-kDa bands of mature proteinase A were detected in cotyledon extracts of 6-day-germinated seeds when globulin degradation has already far proceeded. The reported data do not agree with the proposed triggering role of proteinase A in storage-globulin breakdown during germination.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) nodules contain three leghemoglobins (LbI, LbII, and LbIII) that are encoded by at least two genes. We have cloned and sequenced the gene that encodes for LbII (lbII), the most abundant Lb in cowpea nodules, using total DNA as the template for PCR. Primers were designed using the sequence of the soybean lbc gene. The lbII gene is 679 bp in length and codes for a predicted protein of 145 amino acids. Using sequences of the cowpea lbII gene for the synthesis of primers and total nodule RNA as the template, we cloned a cDNA for LbII into a constitutive expression vector (pEMBL19+) and then expressed it in Escherichia coli. Recombinant LbII (rLbII) and native LbII (nLbII) from cowpea nodules were purified to homogeneity using standard techniques. Properties of rLbII were compared with nLbII by partially sequencing the proteins and by sodium dodecyl sulfate- and isoelectric focusing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, western-blot analysis using anti-soybean Lba antibodies, tryptic and chymotryptic mapping, and spectrophotometric techniques. The data showed that the structural and spectral characteristics of rLbII and nLbII were similar. The rLbII was reversibly oxygenated/deoxygenated, showing that it is a functional hemoglobin.
Chalcone synthase (CHS) of Vigna unguiculata is encoded by a gene family that is abundantly transcribed in leaves and nodules. Inoculation with Rhizobium sp. NGR234, which nodulates V. unguiculata, or with NGR delta nodABC, a mutant deficient in Nod factor production, induced rapid accumulation of CHS mRNAs in roots and root hairs. As both Nod+ and Nod- bacteria provoke responses, induction of CHS gene expression may involve symbiotic or defense responses. Four days after inoculation with the wild-type Rhizobium sp., the transcript levels increased in roots but decreased in root hairs. Use of a region unique to the 5' end of a specific CHS gene (VuCHS1) showed that increases of transcript levels in root hairs 24 h after inoculation with both rhizobia were specific to this gene. Transcripts of this gene in roots were only detectable 4 days after treatment with NGR234. It is possible therefore that accumulation of VuCHS1 follows the infection pathway of rhizobia entering legume roots. Purified Nod factors induced accumulation of transcripts, showing that they might be part of the signal transduction pathway leading to CHS expression.
We have isolated four cDNA clones of ACC synthase from etiolated mungbean seedlings treated with auxin. pVR-ACS2, pVR-ACS3 and pVR-ACS6 contained the same sequences as the previously reported DNA fragments, pMAC2, pMAC3 (Botella et al. 1992b) and pMBA1 (Kim et al. 1992), respectively. pVR-ACS1 was identical with pAIM-1 (Botella et al. 1992a). VR-ACS6 was specifically induced in response to the auxin signal. The IAA-induction of VR-ACS6 was very rapid (within 30 min) and insensitive to cycloheximide treatment at concentrations up to 100 microM. Significant accumulation of VR-ACS6 mRNA was detected at 1 microM IAA. The IAA-induced expression of VR-ACS6 was suppressed by ABA and ethylene, but enhanced by BA. These characteristics of VR-ACS6 expression were well correlated with the physiological data of auxin-induced ethylene production in mungbean hypocotyls. VR-ACS1 was strongly induced by cycloheximide, but was found to be not auxin-specific. Inhibitors of either ethylene biosynthesis (AOA) or action (NBD) increased the basal level of VR-ACS1 mRNA.
A cDNA for delta1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) synthetase (cOsP5CS), an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of proline, was isolated and characterized from a cDNA library prepared from 14-day-old seedlings of Oryza sativa cv. Akibare. The deduced amino acid sequence of the P5CS protein (OsP5CS) from O. sativa exhibited 74.2% and 75.5% homology to that of the P5CS from Arabidopsis thaliana and Vigna aconitifolia, respectively. Northern blot analysis revealed that the gene for P5CS (OsP5CS) was induced by high salt, dehydration, treatment of ABA and cold treatment, while it was not induced by heat treatment. Simultaneously, accumulation of proline was observed as a result of high salt treatment in O. sativa. Moreover, the levels of expression of OsP5CS mRNA and content of proline under salt stress condition were compared between a salt-tolerant cultivar, Dee-gee-woo-gen (DGWG) and a salt-sensitive breeding line, IR28. It was observed that the expression of the P5CS gene and the accumulation of proline in DGWG steadily increased, whereas those in IR28 increased slightly.
Three cDNAs (ext3, ext127, and ext26), originally isolated by differential screening from a root-hair cDNA library of Vigna unguiculata, were found to encode extensin-like cell wall proteins. Transcripts homologous to these cDNAs were only detected in root hairs where mRNA levels decreased 1 day after inoculation with rhizobia. This coincided with the onset of root-hair deformation, the first morphological step in the Rhizobium-legume interaction. Decreases in transcript levels following inoculation with wild-type Rhizobium sp. NGR234 were more pronounced than with NGR delta nodABC, a mutant deficient in Nod-factor production. Inoculation with a rhizobial strain carrying a mutation in a gene encoding a transcriptional activator for nod genes (NGR delta nodD1) did not repress mRNA levels, indicating that a second nodulation signal may be present that is nodD dependent. Application of purified NodNGR factors only affected transcript levels of ext3. The genomic locus of the gene homologous to ext26 (Ext26G) was cloned. In the 5' flanking region, several potential TATA boxes and CAP signals were identified. Part of the promoter region shares homology with the Pisum sativum seed lectin promoter and the Nicotiana tabacum nitrate reductase promoter region. Nonetheless, the function of these homologous regions in gene regulation is unknown.
Ten cDNAs of genes that were induced by dehydration stress were cloned by differential screening from the highly drought-tolerant legume, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), a major crop in West Africa. The clones were collectively named CPRD (cowpea clones responsive to dehydration). Northern blot analysis revealed that nine of the CPRD genes were induced by dehydration stress, but the timing of induction of mRNA synthesis varied among the CPRD genes. We analyzed the effects of other environmental stresses on the expression of the CPRD8, CPRD14 and CPRD22 genes, and we found that these genes were strongly induced by high-salinity stress but not by cold or heat stress. Drought-stressed cowpea plants accumulated abscisic acid (ABA) to a level that was 160 times higher than that in unstressed plants. The CPRD8 and CPRD22 genes were induced to a significant extent by the application of exogenous ABA but the CPRD14 gene was not. These results indicate the existence of at least two signal-transduction pathways between the detection of water stress and the expression of CPRD genes in cowpea. Sequence analysis of CPRD8 and CPRD22 cDNAs revealed that they encoded putative proteins that were related to old yellow enzyme and group 2 LEA proteins, respectively. The protein encoded by CPRD14 exhibited sequence homology to dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) and vestitone reductase (VR). Old yellow enzyme, DFR and VR have not been identified as drought-inducible proteins in other plants, whereas LEA genes have been well characterized as drought-inducible genes. The various gene products might function to protect cells from environmental stress.
The objectives of this study were to use molecular markers to: (1) identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling seed-weight in soybean, (2) characterize the genetic basis of seed-weight expression, and (3) determine whether soybean shares orthologous seed-weight genes with cowpea and/or mung bean. An F2 population was developed between a large-seeded Glycine max breeding line and a small-seeded G. soja plant introduction. DNA samples from 150 F2 individuals were analyzed with 91 polymorphic genetic markers, including RFLPs, RAPDs and SSRs. Seed-weight was analyzed by randomly sampling 100 seeds from each of 150 greenhouse-grown F2 individuals, and their 150 F2∶3 lines, from a replicated field trial. Markers associated with seed-weight were identified using the computer program MapMaker-QTL and a one-way analysis of variance. Three and five markers were significantly associated with seed-weight variation (P<0.01) in the F2 and F2∶3 generations, respectively. Tests for digenic epistasis revealed three significant interactions in both generations. In a combined analysis, these markers and interactions explained 50 and 60% of the phenotypic variation for seed-weight in the F2 and F2∶3 generations, respectively. Comparison of our results in soybean (Glycine) with those previously reported in cowpea and mung bean (Vigna) indicated that soybean and cowpea share an orthologous seed-weight gene. In both species, a genomic region significantly associated with seed-weight spanned the same RFLP markers in the same linkage order. A significant digenic interaction involving this genomic region was conserved in all three species. These results suggest that the exploitation of "comparative QTL mapping" is an invaluable tool for quantitative geneticists working with poorly characterized plant systems.
A cDNA clone encoding a pectinacetylesterase (PAE) was isolated from 3-day-old mung bean seedlings using PCR-based techniques. Degenerate oligonucleotide primers were designed according to the N-terminus and internal peptides from the purified PAE. The full-length clone of 1453 bp codes for a signal peptide of 24 amino acids and a mature protein of 375 amino acids. The Mr and the pI of the cDNA-deduced amino acid sequence agree with the values estimated for the purified enzyme. No significant sequence identity between the PAE and any known protein could be found in the databases. Northern analysis revealed developmentally regulated expression of the mRNA in mung been seedlings.
The barley cysteine proteinase B (EPB) is the main protease responsible for the degradation of endosperm storage proteins providing nitrogenous nutrients to support the growth of young seedlings. The expression of this enzyme is induced in the germinating seeds by the phytohormone, gibberellin, and suppressed by another phytohormone, abscisic acid. In situ hybridization experiments indicate that EPB is expressed in the scutellar epithelium within 24 h of seed germination, but the aleurone tissue surrounding the starchy endosperm eventually becomes the main tissue expressing this enzyme. The EPB gene family of barley consists of two very similar genes, EPB1 and EPB2, both of which have been mapped to chromosome 3. The sequences of EPB1 and EPB2 match with the two previously published cDNA clones indicating that both genes are expressed. Interestingly, neither of these genes contain any introns, a rare phenomenon in which all members of a small gene family are active intronless genes. Sequence comparison indicates that the barley EPB family can be classified as cathepsin L-like endopeptidases and is most closely related to two legume cysteine proteinases (Phaseolus vulgaris EP-C1 and Vigna mungo SHEP) which are also involved in seed storage protein degradation. The promoters of EPB1 and EPB2 have been linked to the coding sequence of a reporter gene, GUS, encoding beta-glucuronidase, and introduced into barley aleurone cells using the particle bombardment method. Transient expression studies indicate that EPB promoters are sufficient to confer the hormonal regulation of these genes.
The common nodulation locus and closely linked nodulation genes of Bradyrhizobium (Arachis) sp. strain NC92 have been isolated on an 11.0-kb EcoRI restriction fragment. The nucleotide sequence of a 7.0-kb EcoRV-EcoRI subclone was determined and found to contain open reading frames (ORFs) homologous to the nodA, nodB, nodD1, nodD2, and nolA genes of Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Bradyrhizobium elkanii. Nodulation assays of nodD1, nodD2, or nolA deletion mutants on the host plants Macroptilium atropurpureum (siratro) and Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) indicate that nolA is required for efficient nodulation, as nolA mutants exhibit a 6-day nodulation delay and reduced nodule numbers. The nolA phenotype was complemented by providing the nolA ORF in trans, indicating that the phenotype is due to the lack of the nolA ORF. nodD1 mutants displayed a 2-day nodulation delay, whereas nodD2 strains were indistinguishable from the wild type. Translational nodA-lacZ, nodD1-lacZ, nodD2-lacZ, and nolA-lacZ fusions were created. Expression of the nodA-lacZ fusion was induced by the addition of peanut, cowpea, and siratro seed exudates and by the addition of the isoflavonoids genistein and daidzein. In a nodD1 or nodD2 background, basal expression of the nodA-lacZ fusion increased two- to threefold. The level of expression of the nodD2-lacZ and nolA-lacZ fusions was low in the wild type but increased in nodD1, nodD2, and nodD1 nodD2 backgrounds independently of the addition of the inducer genistein. nolA was required for increased expression of the nodD2-lacZ fusion. These data suggest that a common factor is involved in the regulation of nodD2 and nolA, and they are also consistent with a model of nod gene expression in Bradyrhizobium (Arachis) sp. strain NC92 in which negative regulation is mediated by the products of the nodD1 and nodD2 genes.
Protein kinases are important in eukaryotic signal transduction pathways. In this study we designed degenerate oligonucleotides corresponding to two conserved regions of protein kinases and using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) have amplified a 141 bp fragment of DNA from mungbeans (Vigna radiata Rwilcz cv. Berken). Sequence analysis of the PCR products indicates that they encode several putative protein kinases with respect to their identity with other known plant protein kinases. Using one of the six fragments (CPK3-8), we isolated a 2022 bp cDNA (VrCDPK-1) from a Vigna radiata lambda gt11 library. VrCDPK-1 has a 96 bp 5'-untranslated region and a 465 bp 3'-untranslated region and an open reading frame of 1461 bp. VrCDPK-1 contains all of the conserved regions commonly found in calcium dependent protein kinases (CDPK). VrCDPK-1 shares 24 to 89% sequence identity with previously reported sequences for plant CDPKs at the protein level. Southern analysis revealed the presence of several copies of the CDPK gene. VrCDPK-1 expression was stimulated when mungbean cuttings were treated with CaCl2, while treatment with MgCl2 had no effect. We are reporting for the first time a CDPK gene in mungbean which is inducible by mechanical strain. Cuttings treated with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) or subjected to salt stress showed an increase in VrCDPK-1 expression. There was a dramatic stimulation in VrCDPK-1 expression 6 h after cuttings were treated with cycloheximide.
Transformed Vigna mungo (blackgram) calli were obtained by cocultivating segments of primary leaves with Agrobacterium tumefaciens vir helper strains harbouring the binary vector pGA472 having kanamycin resistance gene as plant transformation marker. Transformed calli were selected on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 50 mg/l kanamycin and 500 mg/l carbenicillin. Transformed calli were found to be resistant to kanamycin up to 900 mg/l concentration. Expression of kanamycin resistance gene in transformed calli was demonstrated by neomycin phosphotransferase assay. Stable integration of transferred DNA into V. mungo genome was confirmed by Southern blot analysis.
Cysteine endopeptidases, SH-EP from Vigna mungo and EP-C1 from Phaseolus vulgaris, act to degrade seed storage protein during seed germination. Using transgenic tobacco plants, expression of SH-EP and promoter activity of the EP-C1 gene were analyzed in transgenic tobacco plants. The promoters of the two genes in tobacco seeds showed germination-specific activation, although post-translational processing of SH-EP and regulatory regions of promoter of the gene for EP-C1 were found to differ between leguminous seeds and transgenic tobacco seeds.
An auxin-regulated calmodulin cDNA (arCaM) were isolated by differential screening from a mung bean (Vigna radiata) cDNA library. The expression of the arCaM transcript in the etiolated mung bean hypocotyl was examined by RNA gel blot analysis. The arCaM transcript was induced depending on indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) concentrations. An increase in level of the arCaM transcript upon treatment of hypocotyl segments with 10 microM IAA was detected after 1 h and a maximum level was detected at 2 h. Induction of the arCaM transcript occurred upon treatment with 10 microM 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or naphthalene-1-acetic acid (NAA) as well as with IAA, while treatment with 10 microM p-chlorophenoxyisobutyric acid (PCIB) as an anti-auxin, prevented the induction. Ethylene did not have any effect. Other stress conditions, such as exposure to salt stress, heavy metal ions and heat shock, also had no effect on the induction. The levels of the arCaM transcript in leaves of light-grown mung bean plants treated with IAA showed steady but small increases with time.
A full-length cDNA and the corresponding At-P5S gene encoding the first enzyme of the proline biosynthetic pathway, the delta 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) synthetase, were isolated in Arabidopsis thaliana. The At-P5S cDNA encodes a protein of 717 amino acids showing high identity with the P5C synthetase of Vigna aconitifolia. Strong homology is also found at the N-terminus to bacterial and yeast gamma-glutamyl kinase and at the C-terminus to bacterial gamma-glutamyl phosphate reductase. Putative ATP- and NAD(P)H-binding sites are suggested in the At-P5S protein. The transcribed region of the At-P5S gene is 4.8 kb long and contains 20 exons. Southern analysis suggests the presence of only one At-P5S gene in the A. thaliana genome mapped at the bottom of the chromosome two. Expression analysis of At-P5S in different organs reveals abundant At-P5S transcripts in mature flowering plant. Rapid induction of the At-P5S gene followed by accumulation of proline was observed in NaCl-treated seedlings suggesting that At-P5S is osmoregulated.
The isolation and characterization is reported of a cDNA for delta 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) synthetase (cAtP5CS), an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of proline, from a cDNA library prepared from a dehydrated rosette plant of Arabidopsis thaliana. Southern blot analysis suggested that only one copy of the corresponding gene (AtP5CS) is present in A. thaliana. The deduced amino acid sequence of the P5CS protein (AtP5CS) from A. thaliana exhibited 74% homology to that of the P5CS from Vigna aconitifolia. Northern blot analysis revealed that the gene for P5CS was induced by dehydration, high salt and treatment with ABA, while it was not induced by heat or cold treatment. Moreover, the simultaneous accumulation of proline was observed as a result of the former treatments in A. thaliana. A cDNA for P5C reductase (cAtP5CR) was also isolated from A. thaliana and Northern blot analysis was performed. The AtP5CR gene was not induced to a significant extent by dehydration or high-salt stress. These observations suggest that the AtP5CS gene plays a principal role in the biosynthesis of proline in A. thaliana under osmotic stress.
Ethylene production is observed in all higher plants, where it is involved in numerous aspects of growth, development, and senescence. 1-Aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid synthase (ACC synthase; S-adenosyl-L-methionine methylthioadenosine-lyase, EC 4.4.1.14) is the key regulatory enzyme in the ethylene biosynthetic pathway. We are reporting an ACC synthase gene in Vigna radiata (mung bean) that is inducible by mechanical strain. The ACC synthase cDNA AIM-1 was induced by mechanical strain within 10 min, reaching a maximum at 30 min, showing a dramatic reduction after 60 min, and showing no detectable message by 3 hr. The kinetics of induction for AIM-1 was similar to a mechanical strain-induced calmodulin (MBCaM-1) in V. radiata, whereas the kinetics of its decline from maximum was different. When plants were subjected to calcium-deficient conditions, supplemental calcium, calcium chelators, calcium storage releasers, calcium ionophore, or calmodulin antagonists, there was no effect on AIM-1, indicating that the mechanical strain-induced AIM-1 expression is a calcium-independent process. Induction of MBCaM-1 in all cases behaved in the same way as AIM-1, suggesting that they share similar mechanically activated cis- and/or trans-acting elements in their promoter.
Soybean (Glycine max) and mothbean (Vigna aconitifolia) cDNA clones encoding glutamine phosphoribosylpyrophosphate amidotransferase (PRAT), the first enzyme of the de novo purine biosynthesis pathway, have been isolated from nodule cDNA libraries. The amino acid sequence deduced from soybean clone showed > 85% homology to the PRAT sequence of mothbean and 33-47% homology to those of bacteria, yeast, chicken, rat and human. The soybean clone encodes a protein with an N-terminal sequence resembling a plastid-targeting peptide. Downstream from this peptide is a sequence similar to the 11 amino acid propeptide found in the Bacillus subtilis, chicken, rat and human PRAT proteins. The mothbean cDNA, although lacking most of the plastid presequence, encodes the putative propeptide and efficiently complements purine auxotrophy in an Escherichia coli purF mutant. Both the soybean and mothbean clones encode characteristic cysteine residues that are known to be involved in the assembly of a [Fe-S] cluster near the C-terminus of this protein. Levels of PRAT mRNA in mothbean nodules were found to increase steadily as the nodules matured from 13 days to 23 days. PRAT mRNA was not detectable in uninfected root tissue but a low level of transcript was detected in leaves. Treatment of uninfected root with L-glutamine induced the PRAT mRNA transcript suggesting that glutamine produced as a result of assimilation of fixed nitrogen is funnelled into the de novo purine biosynthesis and controls the expression of this pathway in root nodules.
A single copy of the alpha-amylase gene, composed of three introns and four exons, was found in Vigna mungo. Examination of levels of alpha-amylase and its mRNA in detached cotyledons indicated that attachment of the embryonic axis is not required for expression of the gene in cotyledons of germinating seeds.
A cDNA library was constructed from RNA of Vigna unguiculata root hairs harvested 1 day and 4 days after inoculation with Rhizobium sp. NGR234. A heterologous probe was used to identify a cDNA clone, the predicted 99-amino-acid sequence of which shares homology with a nonspecific lipid transfer protein (LTP) of Hordeum vulgare. Other characteristics, including an estimated molecular weight of 10.4 kD, an isoelectric point of 8.6, and a signal peptide with a hydrophobic region at the amino-terminal end, are shared by most LTPs. A transcript of 630 nt was found in all tissues tested, except nodules. Levels of mRNA increased in root hairs 24 hr after treatment with Rhizobium sp. NGR234, with different hormones, or with Nod factors. Amounts of transcripts were dependent on the concentration of Nod factors. Accumulation of transcripts during nodule development correlated with root hair deformation, the first visible step in the Rhizobium-legume symbiosis.
Genetic changes in the development of endometrial carcinoma have not been characterized, and little is known of tumor or metastatic suppressor gene status in these malignancies. The current study on endometrioid carcinoma was undertaken to examine the status of two tumor suppressor genes that frequently have been found to be altered in human malignancies (the p53 gene and the retinoblastoma [Rb] gene) and to examine the status of the candidate metastatic suppressor gene, nm23-H1. The status of the p53 gene was studied by immunohistochemistry of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded biopsy samples from 72 patients with atypical endometrial hyperplasia or endometrioid carcinoma who underwent hysterectomy immediately after biopsy and from 5 patients with benign endometria. A search for loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the nm23 gene after DNA extraction from frozen tissues and hybridization with nm23-H1 cDNA specific probe was made in 10 endometrial carcinomas. Rb gene status was evaluated by image analysis quantification of immunoreactive retinoblastoma protein in frozen sections of 10 carcinomas and 2 benign endometria. p53 expression was low in all benign endometria, but high expression was found in 2 (15%) of 13 atypical hyperplasias and in 23 (39%) of 59 carcinomas. High levels of p53 expression in endometrioid carcinoma correlated with the spread of disease outside of the uterus and by logistic regression, the presence of squamous differentiation, nuclear grade, and high p53 expression in the biopsy all independently correlated with spread of disease outside of the uterus. Although 7 of the 10 carcinomas studied were informative, LOH for the nm23 gene was not seen in any, including a site of metastasis. Rb protein expression in endometrial carcinoma was similar to expression in benign endometria. Although this study found no evidence of nm23-H1 gene alteration or alterations in Rb protein levels in endometrial carcinoma, high expression of p53 protein was sporadically identified in biopsy specimens of atypical hyperplasia and frequently found in endometrioid carcinomas. Determination of p53 expression in combination with the presence or absence of squamous differentiation and nuclear grade in biopsy material may help predict spread of endometrioid carcinoma outside the uterus and facilitate therapeutic planning before hysterectomy.
Two different calmodulin (CaM) cDNAs (MBCaM-1 and MBCaM-2) were isolated from a vigna radiata lambda gt11 library by screening with a heterologous Arabidopsis cDNA probe (TCH-1). Both cDNAs are 85% homologous inside the coding region but are highly divergent outside this region. The polypeptides encoded by MBCaM-1 and MBCaM-2 are identical except for two conservative substitutions at positions 7 and 10. Southern analysis revealed that both cDNAs are encoded by different genes. Expression studies revealed different patterns of expression of both genes. MBCaM-1 mRNA exhibited a dramatic transient increase in response to touch, while MBCaM-2 expression showed a steady but small increase as compared to MBCaM-1. When plants were grown in complete darkness MBCaM-1 was undetectable and MBCaM-2 exhibited very low levels of expression. One hour after exposure of etiolated seedlings to light MBCaM-1 showed no change, while MBCaM-2 expression was increased. After a 6 h exposure to light there was an induction of both MBCaM-1 and MBCaM-2; however, the magnitude of this increase was much greater for MBCaM-2. When plants were grown under a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle the mRNA levels for MBCaM-1 were lower during the light period and increased during the beginning of the night cycle, while MBCaM-2 showed no change. Plants treated with indole-3-acetic acid had a peak in MBCaM-1 expression 6 h after treatment initiation with a slight decline 3 h after the peak, while MBCaM-2 showed a steady but small increase over time as compared to MBCaM-1. When plants were subjected to salt stress they showed an increase in MBCaM-1 expression 2 h after treatment initiation reaching a maximum after 4 h with no further increase after 6 h, while MBCaM-2 remained unchanged over the time course.
Nodules of tropical legumes generally export symbiotically fixed nitrogen in the form of ureides that are produced by oxidation of de novo synthesized purines. To investigate the regulation of de novo purine biosynthesis in these nodules, we have isolated cDNA clones encoding 5-aminoimidazole ribonucleotide (AIR) carboxylase and 5-aminoimidazole-4-N-succinocarboxamide ribonucleotide (SAICAR) synthetase from a mothbean (Vigna aconitifolia) nodule cDNA library by complementation of Escherichia coli purE and purC mutants, respectively. Sequencing of these clones revealed that the two enzymes are distinct proteins in mothbean, unlike in animals where both activities are associated with a single bifunctional polypeptide. As is the case in yeast, the mothbean AIR carboxylase has a N-terminal domain homologous to the eubacterial purK gene product. This PurK-like domain appears to facilitate the binding of CO2 and is dispensable in the presence of high CO2 concentrations. Because the expression of the mothbean PurE cDNA clone in E. coli apparently generates a truncated polypeptide lacking at least 140 N-terminal amino acids, this N-terminal region of the enzyme may not be essential for its CO2-binding activity.
By screening a mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) hypocotyl cDNA library using a combination of apple (pAE12) and tomato (pTOM13) 1-aminocyclopropane 1-carboxylate (ACC)-oxidase cDNAs as probes, putative ACC-oxidase clones were isolated. Based on restriction-enzyme map and DNA-sequencing analyses, they can be divided into two homology classes, represented by pVR-ACO1 and pVR-ACO2. While pVR-ACO1 and pVR-ACO2 exhibit close homology in their coding regions, their 3'-noncoding regions are divergent. pVR-ACO1 is a 1312-bp full-length clone and contains a single open reading frame encoding 317 amino acids (MW = 35.8 kDa), while pVR-ACO2 is 1172 bp long and is a partial cDNA clone encoding 308 amino acids. These two deduced amino-acid sequences share 83% identity, and display considerable sequence conservation (73-86%) to other ACC oxidases from various plant species. Northern blot analyses of RNAs isolated from hypocotyl, leaf, and stem tissues using gene-specific probes indicate that the pVR-ACO1 transcript is present in all parts of the seedling and that the expression in hypocotyls is further increased following excision. The maximum induction of ACC-oxidase transcripts occurred at about 6 h after excision, while the maximum enzyme activity was observed at 24 h. When excised hypocotyls were treated with ethylene a further enhanced level of transcripts was observed. Aminooxyacetic acid, an inhibitor of ACC-synthase activity, and 2,5-norbornadiene, an inhibitor of ethylene action, suppressed the wound-induced accumulation of ACC-oxidase mRNA, while an addition of ethylene in these tissues restored the accumulation of ACC-oxidase mRNA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The amino-acid sequence deduced from the nucleotide sequence of an auxin-regulated gene, ARG1, isolated from auxin-treated sections of mung-bean hypocotyls (Yamamoto et al. 1992, Plant Cell Physiol. 33, 13-20), is 69% identical to that of a delta 15 fatty-acid desaturase from Brassica napus L. that is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum. The ARG1 message is present at high levels in the hook portion of the hypocotyl, the plumule and the root tip of 3-d-old etiolated seedlings. The amino-acid sequence encoded by another auxin-regulated gene, ARG2, is 39% identical to that of an atypical late-embryogenesis-abundant (LEA) protein of cotton, LEA5-A. The ARG2 message is localized in the upper part of hypocotyls. Its abundance increases upon treatment of hypocotyl sections with fusicoccin, as well as with auxin. Determination of the distribution and kinetics of induction of mRNAs transcribed from the five auxin-regulated genes of mung bean, which include Aux22s and SAUR as well as ARG1 and ARG2, shows that they are heterogeneous in their mode of gene expression. The physiological implications of the homology between the two auxin-regulated genes and the genes for previously identified proteins are discussed in the context of auxin-induced elongation of the hypocotyl.
The two-component regulatory system Nod-VW of Bradyrhizobium japonicum is essential for the nodulation of the legume host plants Vigna radiata, V. unguiculata and Macroptilium atropurpureum. The NodV protein shares homology with the sensor-kinases, whereas the NodW protein is a member of the response-regulator class. We report here the identification of a new B. japonicum DNA region that is able to suppress the phenotypic defect of a nodW mutant, provided that this region is expressed from a foreign promoter. The minimal complementing region, which itself is not essential for nodulation in a nodW+ background, consists of one gene designated nwsB (nodW-suppressor). The deduced amino acid sequence of the nwsB gene product shows a high degree of homology to NodW. The nws B gene is preceded by a long open reading frame, nwsA, whose putative product appears to be a sensor-kinase. Downstream of nwsB, an open reading frame encoding a second putative response-regulator was identified. Interspecies hybridization revealed the presence of nwsAB-like DNA also in other Bradyrhizobium strains. Using nwsB'-'lacZ fusions, the nwsB gene was found to be expressed rather weakly in B. japonicum. This low level of expression is obviously not sufficient to compensate for a nodW- defect, whereas strong overexpression of nwsB is a condition that leads to suppression of the nodW- mutation.
This study describes the nascent RNA-binding protein of the pea chloroplast transcriptional complex. The protein has been identified by photoaffinity labelling of the transcriptionally active chromosome (TAC) which utilizes the endogenous plastid DNA as template. UV irradiation of lysed chloroplast or the isolated TAC under conditions optimized for transcription photocross-links nascent radiolabelled transcripts (up to 250 nucleotides in length) to a 48 kDa protein. The photoaffinity labelling of the transcript-binding protein is dependent on UV irradiation, is maximal after about 30 min of irradiation, and is completely dependent on transcriptional activity; no cross-linkage has been observed with pre-synthesized RNA. Cross-linkage is influenced by salts and inhibitors in accordance with their effects on transcription. The photoconjugate is composed of protein and RNA moieties, and can be hydrolysed by several proteases. However, the cross-linked transcript is protected from nucleases until the protein is removed. Manganese enhances photoaffinity labelling of the transcript-binding protein, and this is paralleled by an increase in total transcriptional activity of TAC. This protein was isolated by 2-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the sequence of 15 amino acid residues at the amino terminus was determined. The nascent transcript-binding protein appears to be involved in the transcription of all three classes of chloroplast genes. We also found a polypeptide of identical molecular weight to get cross-linked to nascent transcripts in chloroplasts isolated from other legumes such as Cicer arietenum, Vigna radiata and Phaseolus vulgaris, and monocots like Zea mays, Oryza sativa and Pennisetum americanum.
Pancreatic weights and composition were studied with rats fed diets containing raw legume seeds for up to 800 d. Rapid pancreatic enlargement was induced by dietary soybeans (Glycine max) (high Kunitz and Bowman-Birk trypsin inhibitor contents, moderate lectin content) during the initial 150 d. Over the next 200 d the rate of pancreatic growth was similar to that in controls. After 350 d a second period of rapid pancreatic growth occurred. Macroscopic pancreatic nodules were evident in a number of rats fed soybeans for 500 d or more. A similar pattern of pancreatic growth was observed in rats fed dietary cowpeas (Vigna unguiculata) (high Bowman-Birk inhibitor content, low lectin content). Extensive pancreatic growth was also found in young rats fed moderate dietary levels of kidney beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) (low Bowman-Birk inhibitor content, high lectin content). However, the trophic effects diminished with time, and from 100 d onwards, little enlargement was evident. Consumption of a lupinseed (Lupinus angustifolius) diet (low trypsin inhibitor, low lectin content) did not cause pancreatic enlargement. The initial pancreatic growth induced by dietary soybeans seemed to be due to the lectins and trypsin inhibitors, whereas the second period of pancreatic growth was possibly due primarily to the trypsin inhibitors.
The iron storage protein, ferritin, in plants can occur in multiple molecular forms that, until now, were proposed to be derived from degradation of a single mature polypeptide subunit (2,7,17), which is assembled into the holoprotein and functions in plastids. We have carried out some definitive experiments with the diploid legume, Vigna unguiculata (cowpeas), which show that there are functioning genes for three different ferritin subunits in the developing leaves. Unique segments of mRNAs which code for subunits with substantially different mature sequences were detected by PCR. Separate genes for each subunit were found by showing that each gene contained a unique intron. Thus, multiple molecular forms of ferritin can arise through differential expression of a family of genes in plants.
A nodulin-35 (N-35) cDNA encoding nodule-specific uricase (EC 1.7.3.3.) was isolated from a Vigna aconitifolia (mothbean) root nodule cDNA library. Sequence analysis of Vigna uricase (VN-35) cDNA revealed 90% homology to that of soybean. The VN-35 cDNA was inserted in the antisense orientation downstream of the caMV-35S promoter, and transgenic hairy roots were formed on Vigna plants using Agrobacterium rhizogenes. Infection with Bradyrhizobium (cowpea) gave rise to root nodules on transgenic hairy roots supported by the wild-type shoot. Expression of antisense VN-35 RNA was detected in transgenic nodules on individual roots using polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The nodules expressing antisense VN-35 RNA were smaller in size and showed lower uricase activity than nodules formed on the hairy roots transformed with a binary vector containing beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene (used as control), and the plants exhibited nitrogen deficiency symptoms. Ultrastructural analysis and immunogold labeling with antibody against soybean N-35 revealed that the growth of peroxisomes was retarded in transgenic nodules expressing antisense VN-35 RNA. These data suggest that a reduction in ureide biosynthesis limits the availability of symbiotically reduced nitrogen to the plant. The nodules of tropical legumes appear to be specialized in nitrogen assimilation and are developmentally controlled to produce and transport ureides.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata Walp) embryos mechanically isolated from mature seeds and incubated in the presence of plasmid DNA harboring chimeric gus genes were shown to germinate into seedlings expressing β-glucuronidase activity in a variety of tissues, including the apical meristem. Embryo electroporation in the presence of DNA and protectants such as spermine and Lipofectin(TM) increased both the proportion of embryo-derived seedlings expressing the chimeric gene and the level of gene expression. Microscopic observations of thin sections showed that the blue crystals representing the end product of transgene activity on X-glu were exclusively located inside the treated cells. Histological localization of the blue dye crystals varied with the promoter used to drive the transgene.
Ethylene causes the accumulation of seven different proteins (each designated AZxx according to its molecular mass, xx in kD) in excised primary leaves of azuki bean (Vigna angularis) (F. Ishige, H. Mori, K. Yamazaki, H. Imaseki [1991] Plant Cell Physiol 32: 681-690). A complementary DNA encoding an ethylene-induced basic glycoprotein, AZ42, from azuki bean was cloned and its complete nucleotide sequence was determined. Characterization of the cDNA was accomplished by monitoring expression of an immunoreactive protein in Escherichia coli that harbored the cDNA and by the identification of a partial amino acid sequence that was the same as that determined from the purified protein. An open reading frame (1071 base pairs) in the cDNA encoded a protein of 357 amino acids with a molecular mass of 39.3 kD. The amino acid sequence contained three regions that are highly conserved among peroxidases from eight different plants. Purified AZ42 exhibited peroxidase activity. The basic glycoprotein induced by ethylene was identified as a cationic isozyme of peroxidase. The corresponding mRNA was not present in leaves that had not been treated with ethylene, but it appeared after 1 h of treatment with ethylene and its level increased for the next 15 h. Accumulation of the mRNA was also induced after wounding or treatment with salicylate. The wound-induced increase in the level of the mRNA was suppressed by 2,5-norbornadiene, but the salicylate-induced increase was not.
SbPRP1 is a member of the soybean (Glycine max L. Merr) proline-rich cell wall protein family and is expressed at high levels in root tissue. To characterize the sequences required for this expression, we have fused 1.1 kb of upstream flanking DNA sequence from an SbPRP1 genomic clone to a gene encoding beta-glucuronidase (GUS). This construct was introduced into tobacco using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Histochemical staining of GUS activity in transgenic tobacco indicated that SbPRP1 is expressed in the apical and elongating region of both primary and lateral roots, most strongly in the epidermis. A similar localization pattern was found in transformed hairy roots when this construct was introduced into cowpea (Vigna aconitifolia) using Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated transformation. Nested 5'-deletion analysis of the SbPRP1 promoter indicated that a minimal promoter for SbPRP1 expression in roots is located within the first 262 bases of upstream flanking DNA and that the region between -1080 and -262 is required for maximal expression of this gene. Gel retardation assays showed that nuclear factors can be detected in soybean roots which specifically bind to sequences located between -1080 and -623, a region which is needed for maximal expression of the SbPRP1 promoter. Northern hybridization analysis was also used to show that little SbPRP1 mRNA was present in roots during the first 24 h after imbibition. These studies indicate that SbPRP1 expression is localized to the actively growing region of the root and that this expression is temporally regulated during very early stages of seedling growth.
A complementary DNA encoding an ethylene-inducible acidic chitinase of azuki bean (Vigna angularis) was isolated, and its complete nucleotide sequence was determined. The nucleotide and deduced amino-acid sequence were very similar to those of an acidic chitinase from cucumber leaves that had been infected with tobacco necrosis virus. The mRNA for the acidic chitinase was not detected in leaves of azuki bean that had not been treated with ethylene, but it appeared 3 h after initiation of treatment with ethylene and its level gradually increased over a period of 19 h. The mRNA also accumulated in response to salicylate or wounding. The expression of the gene in response to wounding was suppressed by 2,5-norbornadiene, but that in response to salicylate was not affected by this inhibitor.
Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) is a member of the comovirus group of messenger-sense RNA viruses with bipartite genomes, of which cowpea mosaic virus (CPMV) is the type member. Full-length copies of CPSMV RNA 1 were cloned in plasmids bearing a bacteriophage T7 promoter. Previously, similar clones of CPSMV RNA 2 had been obtained. A 5'-rUAUUAAAAUUUU sequence is common to RNA 1 and RNA 2. From two RNA 1 clones and four RNA 2 clones we excised non-CPSMV sequences so as to provide templates for in vitro transcripts that have only a single guanylate preceding CPSMV RNA sequences. Transcripts from the most active RNA 1 and RNA 2 clones, when mixed, showed about 5% of the infectivity of unfractionated CPSMV RNAs from virions. The longest, 1858 codon open reading frame of the 5957 nt CPSMV RNA 1 extends from an AUG at nt 257 to a UGA termination codon at nt 5831. The calculated molecular weight of the polyprotein is 208,000. Comparisons with the available amino acid residue (aa) sequence information from the complete CPMV RNA 1 sequence and the partial sequence of red clover mottle virus RNA 1 suggest that CPSMV RNA 1 specifies the expected set of five mature proteins: 32K proteinase cofactor, 58K presumed helicase, VPg 5'-linked protein of the genomic RNAs, 24K proteinase, and 87K presumed polymerase, separated by four cleavage sites. Of the determined and deduced cleavage sites of the three RNA 1 polyproteins, only that at the 24K/87K junction has a distinct aa pair in the CPSMV polyprotein. Of the five proteins, VPg and 87K show the greatest similarity between CPSMV and CPMV, with identities of 68 and 55%, respectively. Published mutational analysis of the CPMV 24K proteinase and alignment of aa sequences from three comoviruses suggest that cysteine-168, histidine-40 and glutamic acid-77 form the catalytic triad of the CPSMV 24K proteinase. Results are discussed in the context of the resistance that some cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) lines exhibit against CPMV but not against CPSMV.
We have cloned and sequenced the pckA gene of Rhizobium sp. NGR234, a broad host-range strain. The gene encodes phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK), a key enzyme of gluconeogenesis. The locus was isolated and subcloned from a genomic library of NGR234 employing hybridization with an R. meliloti pck gene probe and complementation of a Tn5 mutant in this species. The DNA sequence of pckA (NGR234) was determined and encoded a PEPCK protein of 535 amino acids with a molecular weight of 58.4 kDa. The deduced polypeptide sequence was compared to those of three known ATP-dependent PEPCKs. Slightly higher homology was observed with yeast and trypanosome polypeptides than with that of Escherichia coli. We have identified several regions that are conserved in all four PEPCK proteins. A mutant constructed in the pck gene by site-directed mutagenesis with interposon omega failed to grow on succinate, malate and arabinose but grew on glucose and glycerol as sole carbon sources. These data show that NGR234 requires PEPCK-driven gluconeogenesis to grow on TCA cycle intermediates. A host-dependent effect of the pckA mutation was observed on nodule development and nitrogen fixation. Nodules formed by the site-directed mutant on Leucaena leucocephala and Macroptilium atropurpureum were FixRed, but on Vigna unguiculata were Fix-. The expression of the gene was positively regulated in free-living cells of NGR234 by either succinate or host-plant exudates, and was subject to catabolite repression by glucose.
The human proto-oncogene c-MET encodes a heterodimeric 190 kDa transmembrane protein (p190c-met) with structural features of a tyrosine kinase receptor. The ligand for this putative receptor has not yet been identified. By Northern blot hybridization we found that, among a restricted number of human tissues, c-MET is highly expressed in the liver. This prompted us to test the hypothesis of a functional interaction between the c-MET receptor and Hepatocyte Growth Factor (HGF), a heparin-binding polypeptide consisting of heavy and light chains of 65 and 35 kDa. Nanomolar concentrations of highly purified HGF added to GTL-16 cells, which overexpress the c-MET receptor, enhanced the phosphorylation on tyrosine of the p190c-met kinase. Addition of other known growth factors or serum was ineffective. The kinase activity of the c-MET receptor was also stimulated by HGF in an in vitro assay, after detergent solubilization and partial purification of p190c-met. Moreover, elution of immunoprecipitates obtained with anti-MET antibodies from GTL-16 cell lysates yielded an HGF-responsive kinase activity. These results suggest that HGF, or a growth factor structurally related to HGF, is a candidate ligand for the receptor encoded by c-MET.
Subrepeats located in the rDNA intergenic spacer are also present as independently occurring, tandemly arranged satellite DNA clusters in the genome of Vigna radiata (mung bean). These 174-bp satellite repeats are identified as non-rDNA repeats by the presence of an AluI site. In the closely related Vigna angularis (adzuki bean), 174-bp repeats characterized by an AluI site occur in the rDNA with high sequence homology to the V. radiata rDNA subrepeats. A part of the 174-bp element that shows high similarity to a Xenopus terminator box (T2/T3) is slightly modified in V. angularis. However, a characteristic stem-loop structure can be formed, as in the case of V. radiata. Two highly conserved 12-bp regions occur within the 174-bp rDNA repeats of the two plants investigated. One of these 12-bp stretches exhibits some sequence identity to an element repeated twice in the 325-bp repeats in the intergenic spacer region of Vicia faba (broad bean).
Rhizobium species strain NGR234 nodulates at least 35 diverse genera of legumes as well as the nonlegume Parasponia andersonii. Most nodulation genes are located on the 500-kilobase pair symbiotic plasmid, pNGR234a. Previously, three plasmid-borne host range determinants (HsnI, HsnII, and HsnIII) were identified by their ability to extend the nodulation capacity of heterologous rhizobia to include Vigna unguiculata. In this study, we show that HsnII contains two new nod-box linked hsn genes, nodS and nodU.nodS controls nodulation of the tropical tree Leucaena leucocephala, while the nodSU genes regulate nodulation of the pasture legume Desmodium intortum and the grain legume V. unguiculata. Regulation of the nod-box upstream of nodSU by the flavonoid naringenin was shown using a fusion with a promoterless lacZ gene. Determination of the nucleotide sequence of the nodS gene did not reveal homology with any gene in the EMBL library, although Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110 contains both nodS and nodU (M. Göttfert, S. Hitz, and H. Hennecke, Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions 3:308-316, 1990). We suggest that broad host range in NGR234 is controlled in part by a nodD gene which interacts with a wide range of flavonoids, and in part by host-specific nod genes such as nodS.
Inoculation of 2-day-old cowpea (Vigna unguiculata [L.] Walp.) seedlings with Rhizobium fredii USDA257 results in proficient nodulation of the tap root. The most abundant nodulation occurs in a region roughly corresponding to the position of the root tip at the time of inoculation. We have examined plant gene expression in this region, after inoculation with either USDA257 or a nonnodulating mutant, 257B3. After isolation of mRNA and in vitro translation, the protein products were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Seven proteins are induced within 2.5 days after inoculation with USDA257. One additional induced protein is detectable by 3.5 days after inoculation, and three more appear by day 6. Three of the proteins that are differentially expressed at 2.5 and 3.5 days after inoculation are produced at equivalent levels after 6 days, indicating transient induction of these genes during early stages of nodule development. Several proteins were more abundant in translations of mRNA from roots that had been inoculated with the nonnodulating mutant. This was particularly true after 6 days, when nine proteins were in this class. Thus, altered plant gene expression in carefully selected, highly responsive tissue can be detected 2 days before emerging nodules are visible on the roots, and 6 to 7 days before acetylene reduction is detectable. Additionally, comparisons of ionically bound cell wall proteins isolated 6 days after inoculation revealed four that were unique to nodulating roots, suggesting that some of the nodulation-induced genes may code for structural proteins.
In mung bean (Vigna radiata, formerly Phaseolus aureus) one length heterogeneity in the intergenic spacer (IGS) of the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) is due to a variable number of 175-bp subrepeats. This spacer region downstream of the 25S rRNA coding region was characterized by sequencing the 2.4 kb EcoRI/HindIII fragment of a 10.5 kb mung bean rDNA repeat. Within the 175-bp repetitive elements a sequence was detected showing strong similarity to the T2/T3-box (GACTTGC) found in Xenopus rDNA and involved in termination and enhancing transcription. In mung bean this sequence partly forms the stem of a possible stem-loop structure at the 3'end of each subrepeat. Nuclease mapping of transcription termination sites (TTS) results in two signals, 65 bp and 315 bp downstream of the 3'end of the 25S rRNA coding region. The longer transcript terminates 20 bp downstream of the stem-loop structure at the end of the first 175-bp subrepeat. A spacer model is proposed which allows "readthrough enhancement". No cross-hybridization was observed between the 180-bp subrepeats in pea (Pisum sativum) rDNA and the mung bean 175-bp subrepeat.
Products of the gastrin-releasing peptide gene were isolated from culture medium supernatant of a small cell lung cancer line, NCI-H345, by several (high performance liquid chromatography) HPLC steps. The column eluates were monitored by immunoassay and absorbance profiles. Gastrin-releasing peptide was identified in HPLC eluates by a specific radioimmunoassay. Two carboxyl-terminal gastrin-releasing peptide gene-associated peptides were identified by a radioimmunoassay specific for their predicted carboxyl terminus. The amino termini of these two peptides were determined by microsequence analysis. The shorter peptide was revealed to be a fragment of the larger peptide. Expression of an alternate mRNA was shown by isolation and characterization of a novel tetradecapeptide. Amino acid analysis, microsequence analysis, and mass spectral analysis confirmed that the structure was Ser-Leu-Leu-Gln-Val-Leu-Asn-Val-Lys-Glu-Gly-Thr-Pro-Ser. This peptide represents the carboxyl terminus of a peptide resulting from alternate processing of gastrin releasing peptide mRNA. This mRNA contains a 19-base deletion, creating a frame shift. A radioiodinated synthetic analog of this peptide (Tyr-Leu-Val-Asp-Ser-Leu-Leu-Gln-Val-Leu-Asn-Val-Lys-Glu-Gly-Thr-Pro-Ser ) bound specifically to a small cell cancer line with high affinity, suggesting possible biological activity of the isolated peptide.
Transfer of the strain NGR234nodD 1 gene into the narrow host range R. trifolii strain ANU843 on either a 6.7-kb HindIII or 17-kb XhoI fragment broadens the host range of this bacterium to include the tropical legumes Vigna unguiculata, Glycine ussuriensis, Leucaena leucocephala, and siratro (Macroptilium atropurpureum). Contrary to previous data (Bassam et al. 1986), mutagenesis of the 17-kb XhoI fragment with a mini-Mu lac transposon (Mu dII1734) showed that a functional nodD 1 gene was essential for extended host range. Gene expression studies using both Mu dII1734 fusions and a promoter-cloning vector indicated that several loci, including the nodD 1 gene, are constitutively expressed. No evidence was found for regulation of the strain NGR234 nodD 1 gene by its product. Another locus nod-81, was induced only in the presence of exudates from various plant species, including soybean (Glycine max). Whereas the expression of nod-81 was dependent on the presence of a functional nodD 1 gene product, a regulatory nod-box DNA sequence was not detected 5' to this gene by using available oligonucleotide hybridization probes. The nod-81 locus was induced by genistein, daidzein, naringenin, and coumestrol from both cotyledon and root tissue of freshly germinated soybean seedlings. A broad spectrum of commercially available phenolic compounds stimulated induction of the nod-81 locus, including some that antagonize nod gene induction in other Rhizobium species. The nodD 1 gene product from strain NGR234 was shown to determine the spectrum of compounds that induce nod-81 expression.
Previous work has established that the central nervous system can modulate the immune response. Direct routes through which this regulation may occur are the sympathetic and sensory innervation of lymphoid organs. We investigated the innervation of canine mesenteric lymph nodes using immunohistochemistry and the expression of binding sites for sensory neuropeptides using quantitative receptor autoradiography. The sympathetic innervation of lymph nodes was examined by immunohistochemical methods using an antiserum directed against tyrosine hydroxylase (TOH), the rate limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis. TOH-containing fibers were associated with 90% of the blood vessels (arteries, veins, arterioles and venules) in the hilus, medullary and internodular regions of lymph nodes and in trabeculae with no obvious relationship to blood vessels. The sensory innervation of lymph nodes was investigated using antisera directed against the putative sensory neurotransmitters calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P (SP). CGRP- and SP-containing fibers were detected in the hilus, the medullary region, and the internodular region of lymph nodes usually in association with arterioles and venules. About 50% of the arterioles and venules exhibited a CGRP innervation and a smaller fraction (5-10%) were innervated by SP-containing fibers. Few if any TOH, CGRP, and SP nerve fibers were detected in the germinal centers of lymph nodes. Using quantitative receptor autoradiography we studied the distribution of receptor binding sites for the sensory neuropeptides CGRP, SP, substance K (SK), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), somatostatin (SOM), and bombesin. Specific CGRP binding sites were expressed throughout lymph nodes by trabeculae, arterioles, venules and 25% of the germinal centers. SP receptor binding sites were localized to arterioles and venules in the T cell regions and 25-30% of the germinal centers. VIP binding sites were localized to the internodular and T cell regions, to medullary cords, and to 10-20% of germinal centers. SK, SOM, and bombesin binding sites were not detected in the lymph nodes, although receptor binding sites for these peptides were detected with high specific/nonspecific binding ratios in other canine peripheral tissues. Taken together with previous results these findings suggest that the sympathetic and sensory innervation of mesenteric lymph nodes appears to be involved with the regulation of their blood and lymph flow. The neuropeptide receptor binding sites in lymph node germinal centers may be expressed by lymphocytes upon activation by antigens.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Random transcription fusions with Mu d1(Kan lac) generated three mutants in Rhizobium fredii (strain USDA 201) which showed induction of beta-galactosidase when grown in root exudate of the host plants Glycine max, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Vigna ungliculata. Two genes were isolated from a library of total plasmid DNA of one of the mutants, 3F1. These genes, present in tandem on a 4.2-kilobase HindIII fragment, appear in one copy each on the symbiotic plasmid and do not hybridize to the Rhizobium meliloti common nodulation region. They comprise two separate transcriptional units coding for about 450 and 950 nucleotides, both of which are transcribed in the same direction. The two open reading frames are separated by 586 base pairs, and the 5H regions of the two genes show a common sequence. No similarity was found with the promoter areas of Rhizobium trifolii, R. meliloti, or Bradyrhizobium japonicum nif genes and with any known nodulation genes. Regions homologous to both sequences were detected in EcoRI digests of genomic DNAs from B. japonicum USDA 110, USDA 122, and 61A76, but not in genomic DNA from R. trifolii, Rhizobium leguminosarum, or Rhizobium phaseoli. Mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance analysis indicated that the inducing compound has properties of 4',7-dihydroxyisoflavone, daidzein. These results suggest that, in addition to common nodulation genes, several other genes appear to be specifically induced by compounds in the root exudate of the host plants.
Direct gene transfer proved to be an efficient transformation method for Vigna aconitifolia, a member of the legume family. Kanamycin resistant calli and plants were regenerated from heat shocked protoplasts treated with PEG and plasmid DNA containing the coding region for aminoglycoside phosphotransferase gene (NPT II). The plant cultivar used was an important factor in attaining higher transformation frequencies. Transformation was confirmed by Southern blot analysis using a non-radioactive detection system. Attempts to transform mesophyll and suspension cultured cells by this method were unsuccessful. Protoplasts electroporated with the plasmid pCAP212, which codes for chloramphenicol acetyltransferase, exhibited transient expression of this gene two days after treatment while electroporated cells did not show this enzyme activity. It is therefore assumed that the DNA uptake is prevented by the cell wall.
We have found major evolutionary changes in the types of transcripts produced by specific chloroplast genes, in particular those encoding the large subunit (LS) of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase and a photosystem II polypeptide (PII). Two distinct patterns of LS gene transcripts are revealed by hybridizing an LS gene probe to electrophoretically separated RNA from 19 angiosperms. Most species, including pea, contain the single transcript of approximately 1.6 kb previously observed in corn, spinach and mustard. However, in mung bean and other members of the legume genera Vigna and Phaseolus, the 1.6 kb transcript represents only a minor fraction of LS transcripts, and instead, two larger LS transcripts of approximately 2.4 and 2.6 kb predominate. The PII gene produces a single transcript in pea and most other species examined, while members of the related legume genera Vigna, Phaseolus and Glycine contain two additional transcripts which are smaller in size and probably represent specific RNA breakdown products. A single species, sweet pea (Lathyrus odoratus), contains a second PII transcript which is 0.2 kb larger than the approximately 1.2 kb transcript found in all species. The LS and PII genes map to the same 5 kb region in both pea and mung bean and are transcribed off the same DNA strand. In contrast, published studies indicate that the two genes are approximately 50 kb apart and are transcribed off opposite DNA strands in five other chloroplast genomes. These differences are probably the consequence of an approximately 50 kb inversion which distinguishes the pea and mung bean genomes from those of most other angiosperms (1).
Chloroplast and whole leaf cell RNA from Vigna sinensis, a C3 plant were used as exogenous templates for translation in a cell-free light-dependent system of isolated chloroplasts from Sorghum vulgare, a C4-type plant. Analysis of immunoprecipitates of the translated products with the total cellular RNA on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gels revealed the synthesis of both the subunits of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase. Similar analysis of the product translated with the RNA from Vigna chloroplasts, indicated the synthesis of only the large subunit of the carboxylase. Apparently the chloroplast protein synthetic machinery is capable of translating the mRNA for the smaller subunit of this protein as well, which is known to be translated in the cytoplasmic ribosomal system. Sufficient quantities of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase were synthesised in vitro in the preincubated chloroplast system with the whole cell RNA from the C3 plant to assay the ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate-dependent carboxylation. The newly synthesised protein in the cell-free system is identical in many ways to the native enzyme including the Mg2+ concentration-dependent shift in pH optima towards neutral side. It is specifically inhibited by anti-native ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate.
The TCP gene family encodes plant-specific transcription factors that regulate plant growth, development, and stress responses. Although this gene family has been widely studied in various species, its function in mung bean (
In this study, the A total of 11,433 and 12,063 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified at CK (Control, non-inoculated) versus T24 h (24 hpi) and CK versus T4 d (4 dpi), respectively. Plant hormone signal transduction pathways exhibited the highest number of DEGs at 24 hpi, while plant-pathogen interaction pathways were dominant at 4 dpi. Key genes in these pathways include PR-1 (Pathogenesis-Related protein 1), PPR (Pentatricopeptide Repeat protein), and F-box (F-box Kelch-repeat protein). Additionally, the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway, which is involved in lignin and flavonoid synthesis, plays a crucial role in disease resistance. Important genes involved in this pathway, such as PAL, C4H, 4CL, CHS, and CHI, were found to be significantly enriched. Furthermore, the WRKY transcription factor family was identified as a key regulator of multiple metabolic pathways related to disease resistance. The findings provide a comprehensive understanding of the key molecular factors involved in alfalfa's response to
Mungbean ( Here, we screened six genotypes with consistently high and low content of major secondary metabolites (gallic acid, chlorogenic acid, neo-chlorogenic acid, genistin, formononetin, catechin, syringic acid, and resveratrol) across environmental replicates. Transcriptome data obtained from the individual genotypes were pooled into two groups: high and low levels of secondary metabolites. Of the 200 differentially expressed genes identified using stringent criteria, 23 were annotated in the secondary metabolite pathway. By combining the results of the secondary metabolite and transcriptome data, we identified six key genes encoding four enzymes ( These results provide information on the common genetic factors involved in the production of secondary metabolites, which can improve the nutritional value of mungbeans and contribute to the development of elite mungbean cultivars.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) rust, caused by the fungus Uromyces vignae, is an important disease affecting adzuki bean yield and quality. Previously, several NAC transcription factors (TFs) were induced by rust infection in a resistant adzuki bean variety, suggesting that NAC TF members may play important roles in rust resistance. To further explore the functions of NAC TFs in rust resistance and to provide a reference for resistant varietal breeding, 101 NAC TFs were identified from the adzuki bean genome. The synteny analysis revealed 25 pairs of VaNACs in the genome, which exhibited whole-genome/segmental duplication. Based on the phylogenetic relationships and conserved motif characteristics, the NAC TFs of V. angularis can be divided into 16 subfamilies. Previous transcriptome data showed that nine VaNACs are significantly induced by rust infection. Here, a cis-acting element analysis of these nine genes revealed that most contain hormone responsive elements, such as abscisic acid and methyl jasmonate (MeJA). The expression levels of these nine VaNACs were dynamically regulated in response to exogenous MeJA treatment, as revealed by quantitative real-time PCR analysis. Among them, seven VaNACs exhibited significantly upregulated expression, peaking at 12 h post treatment (hpt) and remaining significantly higher than that of the untreated control group for 48 hpt. These results suggest that these VaNACs are responsive to MeJA signaling and may play roles in the early and sustained transcriptional regulation of stress-related pathways. The exogenous MeJA decreased rust severity on adzuki bean leaves by 45.68%. Additionally, the expression levels of these nine genes in adzuki bean leaves in response to rust infection after pretreatment with MeJA were investigated. The expression of VaNAC002 rapidly peaked at 24 h post inoculation (hpi) and remained significantly higher than the control from 120 to 192 hpi. Subsequently, transient overexpression of VaNAC002 significantly enhanced the resistance of tobacco to Botrytis cinerea, indicating that VaNAC002 positively regulates plant disease resistance. These findings suggest that adzuki bean NAC family members may play important roles in disease resistance through JA signaling, with VaNAC002 having a positive regulatory role in plant immunity.
To investigate the mechanism of pod dehiscence in adzuki bean, RNA sequencing was utilized to analyze transcriptomes in the ventral and dorsal sutures of pods from two dehiscence-resistant accessions and two dehiscence-susceptible accessions. A total of 943 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. Through the Gene Ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) metabolic enrichment pathways, 34 genes related to pod dehiscence were identified. The genes associated with pod dehiscence primarily encode enzymes involved in cell wall modification, including pectin esterase, cellulose synthase, glucosyltransferase, glycoside hydrolase, D-galactosidase, peroxidases, and transcription factors from the MADS-box gene family. The genes exhibit significant enrichment in pathways such as "Pentose and glucuronate interconversions," "Galactose metabolism," "Fructose and mannose metabolism," "Starch and sucrose metabolism," and "Biosynthesis of secondary metabolites." These components primarily play a role in modifying the cell wall, regulating the biochemistry of cells in the dehiscence zone of the pod, and influencing the physiological and metabolic processes of the ventral and dorsal sutures of the pod. This study examined transcript level variations between adzuki bean varieties resistant and susceptible to pod dehiscence, specifically focusing on the ventral and dorsal sutures. The findings offer novel perspectives for elucidating the pod dehiscence regulatory network in adzuki bean and provide valuable genetic resources to guide pod dehiscence-resistant breeding in adzuki bean. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-025-04255-z.
Several mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) cultivars are susceptible to Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by Cercospora canescens Ellis & Martin, and it is necessary to explore resistance sources and understand resistance mechanisms. However, the CLS resistance mechanisms have not yet been explored. The response to CLS revealed significantly different disease severity scores in both mungbean genotypes. Hypersensitive response (HR) started to appear at 2 days after inoculation (DAI) in SUPER5 but was never observed in CN84-1. SUPER5 exhibited fewer and smaller lesions than CN84-1 during CLS infection, resulting in SUPER5 being resistant while CN84-1 was susceptible to CLS. In this study, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis was used to unravel the mechanisms of resistance to CLS in a resistant line (SUPER5) and a susceptible variety (CN84-1) upon CLS infection. A total of 9510 DEGs including 4615 up-regulated and 4895 down-regulated genes were revealed. Of these 3242 and 1027 genes were uniquely up-regulated only in the SUPER5 and CN84-1, respectively, while 2902 and 734 genes were down-regulated only in SUPER5 and CN84-1, respectively. The 843 DEGs were enriched in biological processes mainly associated with plant defense responses, defense response to fungus, protein phosphorylation and response to chitin in Gene Ontology (GO) terms analysis. KEGG pathway analysis showed that these genes were represented in plant-pathogen interaction, the MAPK signaling pathway, plant hormone signal transduction, and cell wall component biosynthesis in response to the CLS infection specifically in SUPER5. In addition, the qRT-PCR was used to analyze the expression pattern of 22 candidate DEGs belonging to pathogenesis related (PR) proteins, resistance (R) proteins, transcription factors, hypersensitive response (HR), and the essential genes involved in cell wall activity during CLS-infected V. radiata. It was found that the expression of these genes was consistent with the RNA-seq analysis, showing a highly significant correlation with a coefficient of 0.7163 (p < 0.01). The co-expression network illustrated the interactions among these genes, which were involved in multiple functions related to the defense response. Interestingly, the ones encoding PR-2, thaumatin, peroxidase, defensin, RPM1, pectinesterase, chalcone synthase, auxin efflux carrier, and transcription factors (Pti1, Pti5, Pti6 and WRKY40) were highly significantly up-regulated in SUPER5 but not in CN84-1 upon CLS infection, suggesting that they might be involved in the CLS resistance mechanisms. Moreover, SUPER5 was found to have higher β-1,3-glucanase and chitinase activity levels than CN84-1. Our findings contribute to an understanding of the CLS resistance mechanisms and may advocate the development of more effective disease management approaches.
Rice bean is an underutilized legume crop cultivated in Asia, and it is a good source of protein, minerals, and essential fatty acids for human consumption. Moreover, the leaves left over after harvesting rice bean seeds contain various biological constituents beneficial to humans and animals. In our study, we performed a de-novo transcriptome assembly of rice bean, characterized the WRKY transcription factors, and studied their response to aluminum stress. A total of 46.6 million clean reads, with a GC value of 43%, were generated via transcriptome sequencing. De novo assembly of the clean reads resulted in 90,933 transcripts and 74,926 unigenes, with minimum and maximum lengths of 301 bp and 24,052 bp, and N50 values of 1801 bp and 1710 bp, respectively. A total of 27,095 and 28,378 unigenes were annotated and subjected to GO and KEGG analyses. Among the unigenes, 15,593, 20,770, and 15,385 unigenes were identified in the domains of biological process, molecular function, and cellular component, respectively. A total of 16,132 unigenes were assigned to 188 pathways, including metabolic pathways (5500) and secondary metabolite biosynthesis (2858). Transcription factor analysis revealed 4860 unigenes from 98 different transcription factor families. For WRKY, a total of 95 unigenes were identified. Further analysis revealed the diverse response of WRKY transcription factors to aluminum stress. Collectively, the results of this study boost genomic resources and provide a baseline for further research on the role of WRKY transcription factors in aluminum tolerance in rice bean.
Plants activate induced defenses through the recognition of molecular patterns. Like pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), herbivore-associated molecular patterns (HAMPs) can be recognized by cell surface pattern recognition receptors leading to defensive transcriptional changes in host plants. Herbivore-induced defensive outputs are regulated by the circadian clock, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. To investigate how the plant circadian clock regulates transcriptional reprogramming of a specific HAMP-induced pathway, we characterized the daytime and nighttime transcriptional response to caterpillar-derived In11 peptide, in the legume crop cowpea (
Calmodulin-binding transcription activator (CAMTA) is comprised of a group of transcription factors and plays an important role in the Ca Eight paralogous VrCAMTA genes were identified and found to be distributed on five of the 11 chromosomes. The proteins possessed CG-1 DNA-binding domains with bipartite NLS signals, ankyrin domains, CaM-binding IQ motifs, and CaM-binding domain (CaMBD). The 2 kb upstream regions of VrCAMTA genes contained sequence motifs of abscisic acid-responsive elements (ABRE) and ethylene-responsive elements (ERE), and binding sites for transcription factors of the bZIP and bHLH domains. Analysis of RNA-seq data from a public repository revealed ubiquitous expression of the VrCAMTA genes, as VrCAMTA1 was expressed at the highest level in seedling leaves, whereas VrCAMTA8 was expressed at the lowest level, which agreed with the RT-qPCR analysis performed on the first true leaves. On day four after leaf emergence, all VrCAMTA genes were upregulated, with VrCAMTA1 exhibiting the highest degree of upregulation. In darkness on day 4, upregulation was not observed in most VrCAMTA genes, except VrCAMTA7, for which a low degree of upregulation was found, whereas no difference was found in VrCAMTA8 expression between light and dark conditions. Treatment with calcium ionophores enhanced VrCAMTA expression under light and/or dark conditions at different times after leaf emergence, suggesting that calcium signaling is involved in the light-induced upregulation of VrCAMTA gene expression. The expression dependence of nearly all VrCAMTA genes on light and calcium signaling suggests their possible differential but likely complementary roles during the early stages of mung bean growth and development.
The TATA-box binding protein (TBP) and TBP-associated factors (TAFs) constitute the transcription factor IID (TFIID), a crucial component of RNA polymerase II, essential for transcription initiation and regulation. Several TFIID subunits are shared with the Spt-Ada-Gcn5-acetyltransferase (SAGA) coactivator complex. Recent research has revealed the roles of TBP and TAFs in organogenesis and stress adaptation. In this study, we identified 1 TBP and 21 putative TAFs in the mungbean genome, among which
In plants, WRKY transcription factors play a crucial role in plant growth, development, and response to abiotic and biotic stress. Cowpea (
The adzuki bean is a typical short-day plant and an important grain crop that is widely used due to its high nutritional and medicinal value. The adzuki bean flowering time is affected by multiple environmental factors, particularly the photoperiod. Adjusting the day length can induce flower synchronization in adzuki bean and accelerate the breeding process. In this study, we used RNA sequencing analysis to determine the effects of different day lengths on gene expression and metabolic characteristics related to adzuki bean flowering time. 'Tangshan hong xiao dou' was used as the experimental material in this study and field experiments were conducted in 2022 using a randomized block design with three treatments: short-day induction periods of 5 d (SD-5d), 10 d (SD-10d), and 15 d (SD-15d). A total of 5,939 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, of which 38.09% were up-regulated and 23.81% were down-regulated. Gene ontology enrichment analysis was performed on the target genes to identify common functions related to photosystems I and II. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis identified two pathways involved in the antenna protein and circadian rhythm. Furthermore, florescence was promoted by down-regulating genes in the circadian rhythm pathway through the blue light metabolic pathway; whereas, antenna proteins promoted flowering by enhancing the reception of light signals and accelerating electron transport. In these two metabolic pathways, the number of DEGs was the greatest between the SD-5d VS SD-15d groups. Real-time reverse transcription‒quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis results of eight DEGs were consistent with the sequencing results. Thus, the sequencing results were accurate and reliable and eight genes were identified as candidates for the regulation of short-day induction at the adzuki bean seedling stage. Short-day induction was able to down-regulate the expression of genes related to flowering according to the circadian rhythm and up-regulate the expression of certain genes in the antenna protein pathway. The results provide a theoretical reference for the molecular mechanism of short-day induction and multi-level information for future functional studies to verify the key genes regulating adzuki bean flowering.
Cowpea wilt is a harmful disease caused by Fusarium oxysporum, leading to substantial losses in cowpea production. Melatonin reportedly regulates plant immunity to pathogens; however the specific regulatory mechanism underlying the protective effect of melatonin pretreated of cowpea against Fusarium oxysporum remains known. Accordingly, the study sought to evaluate changes in the physiological and biochemical indices of cowpea following melatonin treated to facilitate Fusarium oxysporum resistance and elucidate the associated molecular mechanism using a weighted gene coexpression network. Treatment with 100 µM melatonin was effective in increasing cowpea resistance to Fusarium oxysporum. Glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX), catalase (CAT), and salicylic acid (SA) levels were significantly upregulated, and hydrogen peroxide (H The study elucidated changes in the expression of genes associated with the response of cowpea to Fusarium oxysporum under melatonin treated. Specifically, multiple defence mechanisms were initiated to improve cowpea resistance to Fusarium oxysporum.
Drought stress has become an important limiting factor in mung bean production, and NAC(NAM/ATAF/CUC) transcription factors are crucial for plant growth under stress conditions, so it is important to study the regulatory role of NAC transcription factors in mung bean under drought stress. In this investigation, VrNAC15, along with its promoter, was cloned, and its structure was meticulously analyzed. Using qPCR, we examined the tissue-specific expression patterns of VrNAC15, particularly under drought stress and ABA exposure. Additionally, We performed ectopic expression of VrNAC15 in Arabidopsis to assess its function.. Gene sequence analysis revealed that VrNAC15 has a total length of 1014 bp, encoding 337 amino acids. It contains a NAM domain, localizes within the nucleus, and exhibits transcriptional activation. Promoter analysis of VrNAC15 identified essential core promoter elements and cis-acting elements related to abscisic acid, methyl jasmonate, gibberellin, adversity stress, light, and metabolism. Expression analysis demonstrated the concentration of VrNAC15 in leaves, with significant alterations following ABA and drought treatments in mung beans. Cluster analysis revealed that VrNAC15 may enhanced drought tolerance in transgenic plants through its expression. Transgenic experiments supported these findings, showing that heterologous expression of VrNAC15 led to enhanced antioxidant and osmotic adjustment capabilities in Arabidopsis plants. This resulted in the maintenance of cell membrane structural integrity during drought stress and normal physiological and biochemical metabolic reactions within cells. This research provides valuable insights into the structural and functional characteristics of the VrNAC15, setting the stage for future endeavors in molecular breeding for improved drought resistance in mung beans.
TCP transcription factors are known to regulate abiotic stress condition, but their role in The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-024-03976-x.
The SPL gene family (for Squamosa Promoter-binding like Proteins) represents specific transcription factors that have significant roles in abiotic stress tolerance, development and the growth processes of different plants, including initiation of the leaf, branching and development of shoot and fruits. The SPL gene family has been studied in different plant species; however, its role is not yet fully explored in pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan ). In the present study, 11 members of the CcSPL gene family were identified in C. cajan . The identified SPLs were classified into nine groups based on a phylogenetic analysis involving SPL protein sequences from C. cajan , Arabidopsis thaliana , Cicer arietinum , Glycine max , Phaseolus vulgaris , Vigna unguiculata and Arachis hypogaea . Further, the identification of gene structure, motif analysis, domain analysis and presence of cis -regulatory elements in the SPL family members were studied. Based on RNA-sequencing data, gene expression analysis was performed, revealing that CcSPL2.1, 3 and 13A were significantly upregulated for salt-tolerance and CcSPL14 and 15 were upregulated in a salt-susceptible cultivar. Real-time qPCR validation indicated that CcSPL3, 4, 6 and 13A were upregulated under salt stress conditions. Therefore, molecular docking was performed against the proteins of two highly expressed genes (CcSPL3 and CcSPL14 ) with three ligands: abscisic acid, gibberellic acid and indole-3-acetic acid. Afterward, their binding affinity was obtained and three-dimensional structures were predicted. In the future, our study may open avenues for harnessing CcSPL genes in pigeon pea for enhanced abiotic stress resistance and developmental traits.
In different regions of the world, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is an important vegetable and an excellent source of protein. It lessens the malnutrition of the underprivileged in developing nations and has some positive effects on health, such as a reduction in the prevalence of cancer and cardiovascular disease. However, occasionally, certain biotic and abiotic stresses caused a sharp fall in cowpea yield. Major RNA interference (RNAi) genes like Dicer-like (DCL), Argonaute (AGO), and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR) are essential for the synthesis of their associated factors like domain, small RNAs (sRNAs), transcription factors, micro-RNAs, and
Black mung bean is rich in anthocyanin, however, the accumulation and the molecular mechanism of anthocyanin synthesis in black mung bean are unclear. In this study, anthocyanin metabolomics and transcriptomics on the seed coats of two different colors of mung bean were performed to clarify the composition of anthocyanins, and identify transcription factors involved in regulating anthocyanin biosynthesis. In the mature stage, 23 kinds of anthocyanin compounds were identified. All anthocyanin components contents were significantly higher in seed coat of black mung bean compare with green mung bean. Transcriptome analysis suggested that most of the structural genes for anthocyanin biosynthesis and some potential regulatory genes were significantly differentially expressed. WGCNA suggested VrMYB90 was an important regulatory gene in anthocyanin biosynthesis. Arabidopsis thaliana overexpressing VrMYB90 showed significant accumulation of anthocyanins. PAL, 4CL, DFR, F3'5'H, LDOX, F3'H and UFGT were up-regulated in 35S:VrMYB90 Arabidopsis thaliana. These findings provide valuable information for understanding the synthesis mechanism of anthocyanins in black mung bean seed coats.
Vigna mungo, a highly consumed crop in the pan-Asian countries, is vulnerable to several biotic and abiotic stresses. Understanding the post-transcriptional gene regulatory cascades, especially alternative splicing (AS), may underpin large-scale genetic improvements to develop stress-resilient varieties. Herein, a transcriptome based approach was undertaken to decipher the genome-wide AS landscape and splicing dynamics in order to establish the intricacies of their functional interactions in various tissues and stresses. RNA sequencing followed by high-throughput computational analyses identified 54,526 AS events involving 15,506 AS genes that generated 57,405 transcripts isoforms. Enrichment analysis revealed their involvement in diverse regulatory functions and demonstrated that transcription factors are splicing-intensive, splice variants of which are expressed differentially across tissues and environmental cues. Increased expression of a splicing regulator NHP2L1/SNU13 was found to co-occur with lower intron retention events. The host transcriptome is significantly impacted by differential isoform expression of 1172 and 765 AS genes that resulted in 1227 (46.8% up and 53.2% downregulated) and 831 (47.5% up and 52.5% downregulated) transcript isoforms under viral pathogenesis and Fe
Pod dehiscence is a major source of yield loss in legumes, which is exacerbated by aridity. Disruptive mutations in "Pod indehiscent 1" (PDH1), a pod sclerenchyma-specific lignin biosynthesis gene, has been linked to significant reductions in dehiscence in several legume species. We compared syntenic PDH1 regions across 12 legumes and two outgroups to uncover key historical evolutionary trends at this important locus. Our results clarified the extent to which PDH1 orthologs are present in legumes, showing the typical genomic context surrounding PDH1 has only arisen relatively recently in certain phaseoloid species (Vigna, Phaseolus, Glycine). The notable absence of PDH1 in Cajanus cajan may be a major contributor to its indehiscent phenotype compared with other phaseoloids. In addition, we identified a novel PDH1 ortholog in Vigna angularis and detected remarkable increases in PDH1 transcript abundance during Vigna unguiculata pod development. Investigation of the shared genomic context of PDH1 revealed it lies in a hotspot of transcription factors and signaling gene families that respond to abscisic acid and drought stress, which we hypothesize may be an additional factor influencing expression of PDH1 under specific environmental conditions. Our findings provide key insights into the evolutionary history of PDH1 and lay the foundation for optimizing the pod dehiscence role of PDH1 in major and understudied legume species.
WRKY-, PHD-, and MYB-like proteins are three important types of transcription factors in mungbeans, and play an important role in development and stress resistance. The genes' structures and characteristics were clearly reported and were shown to contain the conservative WRKYGQK heptapeptide sequence, Cys4-His-cys3 zinc binding motif, and HTH (helix) tryptophan cluster W structure, respectively. Knowledge on the response of these genes to salt stress is largely unknown. To address this issue, 83 VrWRKYs, 47 VrPHDs, and 149 VrMYBs were identified by using comparative genomics, transcriptomics, and molecular biology methods in mungbeans. An intraspecific synteny analysis revealed that the three gene families had strong co-linearity and an interspecies synteny analysis showed that mungbean and
The important factors in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders include oxidative stress and neuron-glia system inflammation. Vignae Radiatae Semen (VRS) exhibits antihypertensive, anticancer, anti-melanogenesis, hepatoprotective, and immunomodulatory properties. However, the neuroprotective effects and anti-neuroinflammatory activities of VRS ethanol extract (VRSE) remained unknown. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory activities of VRSE against hydrogen peroxide (H
Mung bean is an important grain-legume crop and its sprout is an economical and nutrient vegetable for the public, but the genetic regulation of anthocyanin production, which is an antioxidant in mung bean, remains elusive. In our study, we characterized a subgroup (SG) 6 R2R3-MYB anthocyanin activator VrMYB90 and a SG 4 R2R3-MYB anthocyanin repressor VrMYB3, which synergistically function in regulating anthocyanin synthesis with VrbHLHA transcription factor. The overexpressed VrMYB90 protein activates the expression of VrMYB3 and VrbHLHA in mung bean hair roots, and also promotes VrDFR and VrANS transcript levels by directly binding to the corresponding promoters at specific motifs (CAACTG and CCGTTG). VrMYB90 interacts with VrbHLHA to enhance its regulatory activities on VrDFR and VrANS. Furthermore, the interaction between VrMYB3 with VrMYB90 and VrbHLHA could result in the restriction of anthocyanin synthesis to prevent excessive anthocyanin accumulation. Our results demonstrate that the VrMYB90 protein, in conjunction with VrMYB3 and VrbHLHA, forms a key regulatory module to fine-tune anthocyanin synthesis in mung bean.
Cowpea is sensitive to drought and heat stress, particularly at the reproductive stages of development. Both stresses limit growth and yield, and their effect is more devastating when occurring concurrently. Dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2A (DREB2A) is an important signaling hub integrating information about two different abiotic stresses, drought and heat. We identified VuDREB2A as a canonical DREB ortholog in cowpea, activating downstream stress-responsive genes by binding to DREs in their promoter. Post-translational modification of a negative regulatory domain (NRD) within the VuDREB2A protein prevents its degradation. Targeted deletion of the NRD produces a stable and constitutively active form VuDREB2A-CA. However, there is very little evidence of its practical utility under field conditions. This study overexpressed the VuDREB2A-CA in a popular cowpea variety and conducted drought- and heat-tolerance experiments across various stress regimes. Transgenic cowpea exhibited significant tolerance with consistently higher yield when exposed to over 30-d drought stress and 3-d exposure to high temperature (28 °C-52 °C) without any pleiotropic alterations. The transgenic lines showed higher photosynthetic efficiency, osmotic adjustment, antioxidant defense, thermotolerance, and significantly higher survival and increased biomass than the wild type. Late embryogenesis abundant 5, heat shock protein 70, dehydrin, mitogen-activated protein kinase 2/4, isoflavonoid reductase, and myoinositol phosphate synthase were upregulated in transgenic lines under drought and heat stress. Through transcriptome analysis of the transgenic lines, we found significant up-regulation of various stress-responsive cowpea genes, having DRE in their promoter. Our results suggest that overexpression of VuDREB2A could improve cowpea production under drought and high temperatures.
To advance the understanding of adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) resistance to infection with the rust-causing fungus Uromyces vignae (Uv), we comprehensively analyzed histological events and the transcriptome of Uv-infected adzuki bean. Compared with the susceptible cv. Baoqinghong (BQH), the resistant cv. QH1 showed inhibition of uredospore germination and substomatal vesicle development, intense autofluorescence of cells around the infection site, and cell wall deposit formation in response to Uv infection. In cv. QH1, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) showed enrichment of chitin catabolic processes and responses to biotic stimuli at 24 h post-inoculation (hpi) and cell wall modification and structural constituent of cytoskeleton at 48 hpi. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis indicated enrichment of WRKY transcription factors (TFs), the calcium binding protein cml, and hydroquinone glucosyltransferase at both 24 and 48 hpi. In total, 1992 and 557 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified at 24 and 48 hpi, respectively. Cell surface pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs), WRKY TFs, defense-associated pathogenesis-related (PR) proteins, and lignin and antimicrobial phenolic compound biosynthesis were significantly induced. Finally, we detected the chitinase (CHI) and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) activity were higher in QH1 and increased much earlier than in BQH. In cv. QH1, cell-surface PRRs rapidly recognize Uv invasion and activate the corresponding TFs to increase the transcription of defense-related genes and corresponding enzymatic activities to prevent fungal development and spread in host tissues.
NAC (NAM/ATAF1/2/CUC2) transcription factors are central switches of growth and stress responses in plants. However, unpredictable interspecies conservation of function and regulatory targets makes the well-studied NAC orthologs inapt for pulse engineering. The knowledge of suitable NAC candidates in hardy pulses like cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is still in infancy, hence warrants immediate biotechnological intervention. Here, we showed that overexpression of two native NAC genes (VuNAC1 and VuNAC2) promoted germinative, vegetative, and reproductive growth and conferred multiple abiotic stress tolerance in a commercial cowpea variety. The transgenic lines displayed increased leaf area, thicker stem, nodule-rich denser root system, early flowering, higher pod production (∼3.2-fold and ∼2.1-fold), and greater seed weight (10.3% and 6.0%). In contrast, transient suppression of VuNAC1/2 caused severe growth retardation and flower inhibition. The overexpressor lines showed remarkable tolerance to major yield-declining terminal stresses, such as drought, salinity, heat, and cold, and recovered growth and seed production by boosting photosynthetic activity, water use efficiency, membrane integrity, Na
Mung bean is a short-duration and essential food crop owing to its cash prominence in Asia. Mung bean seeds are rich in protein, fiber, antioxidants, and phytonutrients. The NAC transcription factors (TFs) family is a large plant-specific family, participating in tissue development regulation and abiotic and biotic stresses. In this study, we perform genome-wide comparisons of VrNAC with their homologs from Arabidopsis. We identified 81 NAC transcription factors (TFs) in mung bean genome and named as per their chromosome location. A phylogenetic analysis revealed that VrNACs are broadly distributed in nine groups. Moreover, we identified 20 conserved motifs across the VrNACs highlighting their roles in different biological process. Based on the gene structure of the putative VrNAC and segmental duplication events might be playing a vital role in the expansion of mung bean genome. A comparative phylogenetic analysis of mung bean NAC together with homologs from Arabidopsis allowed us to classify NAC genes into 13 groups, each containing several orthologs and paralogs. Gene ontology (GO) analysis categorized the VrNACs into biological process, cellular components and molecular functions, explaining the functions in different plant physiology processes. A gene co-expression network analysis identified 173 genes involved in the transcriptional network of putative VrNAC genes. We also investigated how miRNAs potentially target VrNACs and shape their interactions with proteins. VrNAC1.4 (Vradi01g03390.1) was targeted by the Vra-miR165 family, including 9 miRNAs. Vra-miR165 contributes to leaf development and drought tolerance. We also performed qRT-PCR on 22 randomly selected VrNAC genes to assess their expression patterns in the NM-98 genotype, widely known for being tolerant to drought and bacterial leaf spot disease. This genome-wide investigation of VrNACs provides a unique resource for further detailed investigations aimed at predicting orthologs functions and what role the play under abiotic and biotic stress, with the ultimate aim to improve mung bean production under diverse environmental conditions.
To add value to food waste and seek skin aging suppressor, petroleum ether, ethyl acetate, n-butanol and water phenolic extracts were produced from mung bean hulls subjected to ultrasound-assisted ethanolic extraction. The four extracts all contained protocatechuic acid, isovitexin, vitexin, caffeic acid, 4-coumaric acid, ferulic acid, rutin and chlorogenic acid (revealed by UHPLC-MS/MS). The effects of the four extracts and their main phenolic compounds against H
Mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek) is an important legume crop of Asia. Salt concentrations typically causes major yield reductions in mungbean. Although the biochemical and genetic basis of salt tolerance-related gene are well studied in Arabidopsis and soybean, limited information concerning the salt tolerance-related genes in mungbean. To address this issue, we mined salt tolerance related genes using the survival rate trait and 160,1405 SNPs in 112 mungbean accessions. As a result, VrFRO8 significantly associated with salt-stress were identified in the GWAS analysis. The candidate gene VrFRO8 was evidenced by comparative genomics, transcriptome and RT-qPCR analysis. The expression level of VrFRO8 was significantly up-regulated (P-value = 0.001) after salt treatment compared with the control group. Moreover, 188 genes and 158 transcription factors related to salt-stress signal transduction pathway were mined, and 18 genes (18/188) had higher expression level in the salt-tolerant varieties than salt-sensitive varieties. And, the function of VrFRO8 was predicted in mungbean, the protein interaction between VrFRO8 and seven related-genes were found by molecular structure analysis. VrFRO8 might reduce SOD contents by influence Fe
ATAF-like NAC transcription factors are bonafide regulators of stress-signaling. However, their overexpression often exerts growth-retardation by activating ABA-hypersensitivity, chloroplast-degradation, or carbon-starvation. To improve tolerance to multiple stress complying with growth sustainability, we examined two ATAF orthologs, VuNAC1 and VuNAC2, isolated from a drought-hardy cowpea genotype, for a harmonized regulation of stress and growth signaling. The genes were induced by dehydration, NaCl, polyethylene glycol, heat, cold, ABA, and light. Analysis of the promoter-elements and regulatory network corroborated the integration of circadian, hormonal, stress, developmental, and nutrition signals, being VuNAC1/2 the central transcriptional-switch interfacing growth and stress responses. The constitutive gene overexpression in Arabidopsis resulted in an improved embryonic, rosette, and inflorescence growth, under optimum as well as limiting nutrition, in association with increased photosynthetic activity and stomatal-density. The transgenic seedlings manifested tolerance to dehydration, salinity, aluminum, cadmium, and H
The underutilized species Vigna aconitifolia (Moth Bean) is an important legume crop cultivated in semi-arid conditions and is valued for its seeds for their high protein content. It is also a popular green manure cover crop that offers many agronomic benefits including nitrogen fixation and soil nutrients. Despite its economic potential, genomic resources for this crop are scarce and there is limited knowledge on the developmental process of this plant at a molecular level. In the present communication, we have studied the molecular mechanisms that regulate plant development in V. aconitifolia, with a special focus on flower and seed development. We believe that this study will greatly enrich the genomic resources for this plant in form of differentially expressed genes, transcription factors, and genic molecular markers. We have performed the de novo transcriptome assembly using six types of tissues from various developmental stages of Vigna aconitifolia (var. RMO-435), namely, leaves, roots, flowers, pods, and seed tissue in the early and late stages of development, using the Illumina NextSeq platform. We assembled the transcriptome to get 150938 unigenes with an average length of 937.78 bp. About 79.9% of these unigenes were annotated in public databases and 12839 of those unigenes showed a significant match in the KEGG database. Most of the unigenes displayed significant differential expression in the late stages of seed development as compared with leaves. We annotated 74082 unigenes as transcription factors and identified 12096 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) in the genic regions of V.aconitifolia. Digital expression analysis revealed specific gene activities in different tissues which were validated using Real-time PCR analysis. The Vigna aconitifolia transcriptomic resources generated in this study provide foundational resources for gene discovery with respect to various developmental stages. This study provides the first comprehensive analysis revealing the genes involved in molecular as well as metabolic pathways that regulate seed development and may be responsible for the unique nutritive values of moth bean seeds. Hence, this study would serve as a foundation for characterization of candidate genes which would not only provide novel insights into understanding seed development but also provide resources for improved moth bean and related species genetic enhancement.
Global climate changes increase the frequency and intensity of heavy precipitation events, which result in flooding or soil waterlogging. One way to overcome these low-oxygen stresses is via modifying the plant root system to improve internal aeration. Here, we used a comparative RNA-seq based transcriptomic approach to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of waterlogging-triggered root plasticity in mungbean (
Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is one of the most tolerant legume crops to drought and salt stresses. WRKY transcription factor (TF) family members stand out among plant transcriptional regulators related to abiotic stress tolerance. However, little information is currently available on the expression of the cowpea WRKY gene family (VuWRKY) in response to water deficit. Thus, we analyzed genomic and transcriptomic data from cowpea to identify VuWRKY members and characterize their structure and transcriptional response under root dehydration stress. Ninety-two complete VuWRKY genes were found in the cowpea genome based on their domain characteristics. They were clustered into three groups: I (15 members), II (58), and III (16), while three genes were unclassified. Domain analysis of the encoded proteins identified four major variants of the conserved heptapeptide motif WRKYGQK. In silico analysis of VuWRKY gene promoters identified eight candidate binding motifs of cis-regulatory elements, regulated mainly by six TF families associated with abiotic stress responses. Ninety-seven VuWRKY modulated splicing variants associated with 55 VuWRKY genes were identified via RNA-Seq analysis available at the Cowpea Genomics Consortium (CpGC) database. qPCR analyses showed that 22 genes are induced under root dehydration, with VuWRKY18, 21, and 75 exhibiting the most significant induction levels. Given their central role in activating signal transduction cascades in abiotic stress response, the data provide a foundation for the targeted modification of specific VuWRKY family members to improve drought tolerance in this important climate-resilient legume in the developing world and beyond.
Early undernutrition has been found to be closely associated with subsequent neurodevelopment. However, studies examining crude growth in terms of body weight/tail length cannot clarify how diets might mediate associations between the gut microbiota and cognitive dysfunction. In the present study, Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were fed a 7% protein diet and mung bean protein diet (MBPD) for 6 weeks to assess central nervous system functions.
High salinity is a devastating abiotic stresses for crops. To understand the molecular basis of salinity stress in yardlong bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis), and to develop robust markers for improving this trait in germplasm, whole transcriptome RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was conducted to compare the salt-tolerant variety Suzi 41 and salt-sensitive variety Sujiang 1419 under normal and salt stress conditions. Compared with controls, 417 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified under exposure to high salinity, including 42 up- and 11 down-regulated DEGs in salt-tolerant Suzi 41 and 186 up- and 197 down-regulated genes in salt-sensitive Sujiang 1419, validated by qRT-PCR. DEGs were enriched in "Glycolysis/Gluconeogenesis" (ko00010), "Cutin, suberine and wax biosynthesis" (ko00073), and "phenylpropanoid biosynthesis" (ko00940) in Sujiang 1419, although "cysteine/methionine metabolism" (ko00270) was the only pathway significantly enriched in salt-tolerant Suzi 41. Notably, AP2/ERF, LR48, WRKY, and bHLH family transcription factors (TFs) were up-regulated under high salt conditions. Genetic diversity analysis of 84 yardlong bean accessions using 26 InDel markers developed here could distinguish salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive varieties. These findings show a limited set of DEGs, primarily TFs, respond to salinity stress in V. unguiculata, and that these InDels associated with salt-inducible loci are reliable for diversity analysis.
Yeast is a dominant host for recombinant production of heterologous proteins, high-value biochemical compounds, and microbial fermentation. During bioprocess operations, pH fluctuations, organic solvents, drying, starvation, osmotic pressure, and often a combination of these stresses cause growth inhibition or death, markedly limiting its industrial use. Thus, stress-tolerant yeast strains with balanced energy-bioenergetics are highly desirous for sustainable improvement of quality biotechnological production. We isolated two NAC transcription factors (TFs), VuNAC1 and VuNAC2, from a wild cowpea genotype, improving both stress tolerance and growth when expressed in yeast. The GFP-fused proteins were localized to the nucleus. Y2H and reporter assay demonstrated the dimerization and transactivation abilities of the VuNAC proteins having structural folds similar to rice SNAC1. The gel-shift assay indicated that the TFs recognize an "ATGCGTG" motif for DNA-binding shared by several native TFs in yeast. The heterologous expression of VuNAC1/2 in yeast improved growth, biomass, lifespan, fermentation efficiency, and altered cellular composition of biomolecules. The transgenic strains conferred tolerance to multiple stresses such as high salinity, osmotic stress, freezing, and aluminum toxicity. Analysis of the metabolome revealed reprogramming of major pathways synthesizing nucleotides, vitamin B complex, amino acids, antioxidants, flavonoids, and other energy currencies and cofactors. Consequently, the transcriptional tuning of stress signaling and biomolecule metabolism improved the survival of the transgenic strains during starvation and stress recovery. VuNAC1/2-based synthetic gene expression control may contribute to designing robust industrial yeast strains with value-added productivity.
The Teosinte branched 1/Cycloidea/Proliferating cell factor (TCP) transcription factors are potent growth and developmental regulators in plants, also responsive to various hormonal and environmental stimuli. In this study, we primarily focused on the functional role of TCP9, a nuclear-localised Class-I TCP transcription factor in a drought and heat-tolerant legume crop, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Under drought stress, a higher protein expression level of TCP9 was observed in the leaves of the drought-tolerant cowpea cultivar Pusa Komal as compared to the drought-sensitive cultivar TVu-7778. Further, overexpression of VuTCP9 resulted in reduced cell and stomata size, aperture length and width while cell and overall stomatal density in the 35S::VuTCP9 transgenic cowpea lines increased. Phenotypic alterations, such as reduced leaf size and vigour, altered seed coats displaying extension pattern similar to the 'Watson pattern' and delayed senescence were prominent in the transgenic lines. Under normal conditions, the gas exchange and fluorescence measurements indicated reduction in transpiration rate (E), stomatal conductance (g
The present work represents a pioneering effort, being the first to analyze genomic and transcriptomic data from
Increasing attention has been focused on plant-derived peptides because of their potential bioactivities. In this study, bioactive peptides were released from extruded adzuki bean protein by simulated gastrointestinal digestion. A peptide (KQS-1) sequenced as KQSESHFVDAQPEQQQR was separated and identified using ultrafiltration, pre-high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and ultraperformance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS). KQS-1 was shown to exert significant anti-inflammatory effects in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages by reducing the production of IL-1, IL-6, TNF-α, and MCP-1 to 38.31, 6.07, 43.96, and 41.74%, respectively. The involved signaling pathways were identified by transcriptome analysis. Overall, 5236 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. Gene ontology (GO) functions demonstrated that DEGs were significantly related to the NF-κB pathway. In conclusion, KQS-1 prevented the activation and expression of NF-κB/caspase-1 by upstream and downstream factors. These findings highlight the bioactivity of adzuki bean peptides.
Yellow Mosaic Disease (YMD) in mungbean [Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek] is one of the most damaging diseases in Asia. In the northern part of India, the YMD is caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV), while in southern India this is caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic Virus (MYMV). The molecular mechanism of YMD resistance in mungbean remains largely unknown. In this study, RNA-seq analysis was conducted between a resistant (PMR-1) and a susceptible (Pusa Vishal) mungbean genotype under infected and control conditions to understand the regulatory network operating between mungbean-YMV. Overall, 76.8 million raw reads could be generated in different treatment combinations, while mapping rate per library to the reference genome varied from 86.78% to 93.35%. The resistance to MYMIV showed a very complicated gene network, which begins with the production of general PAMPs (pathogen-associated molecular patterns), then activation of various signaling cascades like kinases, jasmonic acid (JA) and brassinosteroid (BR), and finally the expression of specific genes (like PR-proteins, virus resistance and R-gene proteins) leading to resistance response. The function of WRKY, NAC and MYB transcription factors in imparting the resistance against MYMIV could be established. The string analysis also revealed the role of proteins involved in kinase, viral movement and phytoene synthase activity in imparting YMD resistance. A set of novel stress-related EST-SSRs are also identified from the RNA-Seq data which may be used to find the linked genes/QTLs with the YMD resistance. Also, 11 defence-related transcripts could be validated through quantitative real-time PCR analysis. The identified gene networks have led to an insight about the defence mechanism operating against MYMIV infection in mungbean which will be of immense use to manage the YMD resistance in mungbean.
Black gram [Vigna mungo (L)] seeds are a rich source of digestible protein and dietary fibre, both for human and animal consumption. However, the quality and quantity of the Vigna seeds are severely affected by bruchid beetles during storage. Therefore, analyses of the expression of the bruchid induced transcript dynamics in black gram pods would be helpful to understand the underlying defense mechanism against bruchid oviposition. We used the RNAseq approach to survey the changes in transcript profile in the developing seeds of a moderately resistant cultivar IC-8219 against bruchid oviposition using a susceptible cultivar T-9 as a control. A total of 96,084,600 and 99,532,488 clean reads were generated from eight (4 each) samples of IC-8219 and T-9 cultivar, respectively. Based on the BLASTX search against the NR database, 32,584 CDSs were generated of which 31,817 CDSs were significantly similar to Vigna radiata, a close relative of Vigna mungo. The IC-8219 cultivar had 630 significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of which 304 and 326 genes up and down-regulated, respectively. However, in the T-9 cultivar, only 168 DEGs were identified of which 142 and 26 genes up and down-regulated, respectively. The expression analyses of 10 DEGs by qPCR confirmed the accuracy of the RNA-Seq data. Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway analyses helped us to better understand the role of these DEGs in oviposition mediated defense response of black gram. In both the cultivars, the most significant transcriptomic changes in response to the oviposition were related to the induction of defense response genes, transcription factors, secondary metabolites, enzyme inhibitors, and signal transduction pathways. It appears that the bruchid ovipositioning mediated defense response in black gram is induced by SA signaling pathways and defense genes such as defensin, genes for secondary metabolites, and enzyme inhibitors could be potential candidates for resistance to bruchids. We generated a transcript profile of immature black gram pods upon bruchid ovipositioning by de novo assembly and studied the underlying defense mechanism of a moderately resistant cultivar.
This work presents a robust analysis of the inositols (INSs) and raffinose family oligosaccharides (RFOs) pathways, using genomic and transcriptomic tools in cowpea under root dehydration. Nineteen (~70%) of the 26 scrutinized enzymes presented transcriptional up-regulation in at least one treatment time. The transcriptional orchestration allowed categorization of the analyzed enzymes as time-independent (those showing the same regulation throughout the assay) and time-dependent (those showing different transcriptional regulation over time). It is suggested that up-regulated time-independent enzymes (INSs: myo-inositol oxygenase, inositol-tetrakisphosphate 1-kinase 3, phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase 4-like, 1-phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate 5-kinase, phosphoinositide phospholipase C, and non-specific phospholipase C; RFOs: α-galactosidase, invertase, and raffinose synthase) actively participate in the reorganization of cowpea molecular physiology under the applied stress. In turn, time-dependent enzymes, especially those up-regulated in some of the treatment times (INSs: inositol-pentakisphosphate 2-kinase, phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase, phosphatidylinositol synthase, multiple inositol polyphosphate phosphatase 1, methylmalonate-semialdehyde dehydrogenase, triosephosphate isomerase, myo-inositol-3-phosphate synthase, phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate 3-phosphatase and protein-tyrosine-phosphatase, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; RFOs: galactinol synthase) seem to participate in fine-tuning of the molecular physiology, helping the cowpea plants to acclimatize under dehydration stress. Not all loci encoding the studied enzymes were expressed during the assay; most of the expressed ones exhibited a variable transcriptional profile in the different treatment times. Genes of the INSs and RFOs pathways showed high orthology with analyzed Phaseoleae members, suggesting a relevant role within this legume group. Regarding the promoter regions of INSs and RFOs genes, some bona fide cis-regulatory elements were identified in association with seven transcription factor families (AP2-EFR, Dof-type, MADS-box, bZIP, CPP, ZF-HD, and GATA-type). Members of INSs and RFOs pathways potentially participate in other processes regulated by these proteins in cowpea.
This paper reports fine mapping of qCLS for resistance to Cercospora leaf spot disease in mungbean and identified LOC106765332encoding TATA-binding-protein-associated factor 5 (TAF5) as the candidate gene for the resistance Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by the fungus Cercospora canescens is an important disease of mungbean. A QTL mapping using mungbean F
The full-length single-molecular sequencing and short reads Illumina sequencing were combined to generate the transcripts of adzuki bean with high-quality. A total of 17,636 loci and 60,454 transcripts were detected in this study. To characterize the drought-responsive genes during seed germination in adzuki bean, two varieties, i.e., tolerant and sensitive to drought stress, were selected to conduct analysis of alternative splicing dynamics (AS) and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) by combining the newly assembled draft genome and public adzuki bean reference genome. AS analysis indicated that both the two varieties underwent a little more AS events under control conditions than under drought stress. Among the AS events, IR (intron retention) predominately accounted for 34.3%, whereas AD (alternative donor site) was the least frequent with 15.8%. Meanwhile, 562 long non-coding RNAs, 409 fusion genes and 1208 transcription factors were identified. Moreover, a total of 5,337 DEGs were identified in comparison of the two varieties with drought or control treatments. Notably, 82 DEGs were discovered in the two varieties under drought stress, which might be the candidate in regulation of seed germination to answer for different drought tolerance. The DEGs encoded proteins involved in primary or second metabolism, plant hormone signal transduction, transcript or translation processes, ubiquitin proteasome system, transcription factor, transporters, and so on. The results facilitate to increase the knowledge about the mechanism of drought tolerance during crop seed germination, and provide reference for the breeding of drought-tolerant adzuki bean.
The Ty1/copia-like retrotransposon ONSEN is conserved among Brassica species, as well as in beans, including adzuki bean (Vigna angularis (Willd.) Ohwi & Ohashi), which is one of the economically important crops in Japan. ONSEN has acquired a heat-responsive element that is recognized by plant heat stress defense factors, resulting in its transcription and the production of full-length extrachromosomal DNA under conditions with elevated temperatures. DNA methylation plays an important role in regulating the activation of this transposon in plants. Therefore, chemical inhibition of DNA methyltransferases has been utilized to study the effect of DNA methylation on transposon activation. To understand the effect of DNA methylation on ONSEN activation, Arabidopsis thaliana and adzuki bean seedlings were treated with zebularine, which is known to be an effective chemical demethylation agent. The results showed that ONSEN transcription levels were upregulated in zebularine-treated plants. Extrachromosomal DNA of ONSEN also accumulated in the treated plants.
Ethylene-response factor (ERF) proteins are members of a transcription factor family involved in plant growth and environmental stress responses, but the biological functions of ERF members in adzuki bean (Vigna angularis var. angularis) remain unknown. In addition, it is unclear whether these proteins have a role in regulating responses to abiotic stressors. Here, we identified 47 ERF genes by analyzing the adzuki bean genome. Whole-transcriptome analyses of plants under saline-alkaline stress suggested that the expression of 13 ERF genes was induced in response to saline-alkaline stress. Analysis of the cis-acting elements showed that the promoters of these saline-alkaline stress-inducible ERF genes contained LTRs, DREs, MYBs, ABREs, MYCs, CGTCA-, and TGACG-motifs, which are involved in abiotic stress responses. The expression of VaERF3 was induced by NaHCO
Meloidogyne incognita is a polyphagous plant-parasitic nematode that causes considerable yield loss in agricultural and horticultural crops. The management options available for M. incognita are extremely limited. Here we identified and characterised a M. incognita homolog of Caenorhabditis elegans sterol-binding protein (Mi-SBP-1), a transcriptional regulator of several lipogenesis pathway genes, and used RNA interference-mediated gene silencing to establish its utility as a target for the management of M. incognita. Mi-sbp-1 is predicted to be a helix-loop-helix domain containing DNA binding transcription factor, and is present in the M. incognita genome in three copies. The RNA-Seq analysis of Mi-sbp-1 silenced second stage juveniles confirmed the key role of this gene in lipogenesis regulation in M. incognita. In vitro and host-induced gene silencing of Mi-sbp-1 in M. incognita second stage juveniles resulted in loss of nematodes' ability to utilise the stored fat reserves, slower nematode development, and reduced parasitism on adzuki bean and tobacco plants. The multiplication factor for the Mi-sbp-1 silenced nematodes on adzuki bean plants was reduced by 51% compared with the control nematodes in which Mi-sbp-1 was not silenced. Transgenic expression of the double-stranded RNA construct of the Mi-sbp-1 gene in tobacco plants caused 40-45% reduction in M. incognita multiplication, 30-43.8% reduction in the number of egg masses, and 33-54% reduction in the number of eggs per egg mass compared with the wild type control plants. Our results confirm that Mi-sbp-1 is a key regulator of lipogenesis in M. incognita and suggest that it can be used as an effective target for its management. The findings of this study can be extended to develop methods to manage other economically important parasitic nematodes.
The interaction among plants and their pollinators has been a major factor which enriched floral traits known as pollination syndromes and promoted the diversification of flowering plants. One of the bee-pollination syndromes in Faboideae with keel blossoms is the formation of a landing platform by wing and keel petals. However, the molecular mechanisms of elaborating a keel blossom remain unclear. By performing large scale mutagenesis, we isolated and characterized a mutant in Vigna radiata, love on wings (low), which shows developmental defects in petal asymmetry and vasculature, leading to a failure in landing platform formation. We cloned the locus through map-based cloning together with RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis. We found that LOW encoded a nucleus-localized Dof-like protein and was expressed in the flower provascular and vascular tissues. A single copy of LOW was detected in legumes, in contrast with other taxa where there seems to be at least 2 copies. Thirty one Dof proteins have been identified from the V. radiata's genome, which can be further divided into four Major Cluster of Orthologous Groups (MCOGs). We also showed that ectopic expression of LOW in Arabidopsis driven by its native promoter caused changes in petal vasculature pattern. To summarize, our study isolated a legume Dof-like factor LOW from V. radiata, which affects vasculature development in this species and this change can, in turn, impact petal development and overall morphology of keel blossom.
Transcriptional regulation is important for plants to respond to toxic effects of aluminium (Al). However, our current knowledge to these events is confined to a few transcription factors. Here, we functionally characterized a rice bean (Vigna umbellata) NAC-type transcription factor, VuNAR1, in terms of Al stress response. We demonstrated that rice bean VuNAR1 is a nuclear-localized transcriptional activator, whose expression was specifically upregulated by Al in roots but not in shoot. VuNAR1 overexpressing Arabidopsis plants exhibit improved Al resistance via Al exclusion. However, VuNAR1-mediated Al exclusion is independent of the function of known Al-resistant genes. Comparative transcriptomic analysis revealed that VuNAR1 specifically regulates the expression of genes associated with protein phosphorylation and cell wall modification in Arabidopsis. Transient expression assay demonstrated the direct transcriptional activation of cell wall-associated receptor kinase 1 (WAK1) by VuNAR1. Moreover, yeast one-hybrid assays and MEME motif searches identified a new VuNAR1-specific binding motif in the promoter of WAK1. Compared with wild-type Arabidopsis plants, VuNAR1 overexpressing plants have higher WAK1 expression and less pectin content. Taken together, our results suggest that VuNAR1 regulates Al resistance by regulating cell wall pectin metabolism via directly binding to the promoter of WAK1 and induce its expression.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the immunomodulatory activity of mung bean protein hydrolysate (MBPH) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 cells and discuss the possible immune regulatory mechanism. MBPH was prepared by alcalase, trypsin, neutrase, and flavourzyme. The 3-h alcalase-hydrolyzed hydrolysate with a molecular weight less than 1,450 Da was selected for the immunological tests. Results showed that MBPH possessed strong suppressing activity to proinflammatory mediators in a dose-dependent manner. Compared to the LPS alone group, MBPH (200 µg/mL) significantly reduced nitric oxide (NO), inducible nitric oxide synthase, interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-1β secretion levels by 52.6%, 53.2%, 48.4%, and 49.7%, respectively, in LPS-induced macrophages. It also enhanced IL-10 secretion from 789 to 3,678 pg/mL. MBPH blocked nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) translocation in LPS-induced macrophages through the prevention of IκBα phosphorylation, and this process further prevented p65 translocation into the nucleus. A possible mechanism of MBPH is that it regulated the expression of inflammatory factors via the NF-κB pathway, thus inhibiting inflammatory reactions. The results suggested that MBPH is of application potential in the development of immunomodulatory functional food to ameliorate immunosuppression.
Isoflavones, such as Genistein (Ge) and Daidzein (Dz) are widely studied Phytoestrogens with potent anti-osteoporotic and good antioxidant activity. Cowpea is one such legume having high isoflavone content and hence we aimed at studying the beneficial effects of the isoflavones isolated from cowpea as it is widely accepted staple food in India. Previously, we reported the effect of Cowpea isoflavones (CP) and Vitamin D (VD) owing to its ability of improving the osteoporotic condition in a diet induced osteoporotic rat model. In the present study, we tried to explore the underlying mechanism of CP and VD along with positive controls Dz and Ge in influencing the functions of human osteoblasts at cellular level. Initially, MG-63 cells were assessed for the expression of genes involved in BMP-2 signaling pathway, like Bone morphogenic protein (BMP-2), transcription factor Osterix (OSX), total and phosphorylated Smad 1/5/8 levels and osteoblast specific genes levels namely Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), Osteopontin (OPN), and Collagen by immunoblot, flow cytometry, and quantitative RT-PCR studies. All the levels that were upregulated with the initial exposure of the compounds got inhibited after Noggin exposure a specific BMP-2 antagonist both at protein level and m-RNA level, except OSX where the expression was totally hindered in CP and Ge treated groups alone. Hence, CP and VD activate BMP-2/Smad signaling pathway and promote further proliferation and differentiation of osteoblasts. Therefore, results prove that isoflavones isolated from cowpea could be used in treating bone-related disorders.
Asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis) is a warm season legume which is widely distributed over subtropical regions and semiarid areas. It is mainly grown as a significant protein source in developing countries. Salinity, as one of the main abiotic stress factors, constrains the normal growth and yield of asparagus bean. This study used two cultivars (a salt-sensitive genotype and a salt-tolerant genotype) under salt stress vs. control to identify salt-stress-induced genes in asparagus bean using RNA sequencing. A total of 692,086,838 high-quality clean reads, assigned to 121,138 unigenes, were obtained from control and salt-treated libraries. Then, 216 root-derived DEGs (differentially expressed genes) and 127 leaf-derived DEGs were identified under salt stress between the two cultivars. Of these DEGs, thirteen were assigned to six transcription factors (TFs), including AP2/EREBP, CCHC(Zn), C2H2, WRKY, WD40-like and LIM. GO analysis indicated four DEGs might take effects on the "oxidation reduction", "transport" and "signal transduction" process. Moreover, expression of nine randomly-chosen DEGs was verified by quantitative real-time-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis. Predicted function of the nine tested DEGs was mainly involved in the KEGG pathway of cation transport, response to osmotic stress, and phosphorelay signal transduction system. A salt-stress-related pathway of "SNARE interactions in vesicular transport" was concerned. As byproducts, 15, 321 microsatellite markers were found in all the unigenes, and 17 SNP linked to six salt-stress induced DEGs were revealed. These candidate genes provide novel insights for understanding the salt tolerance mechanism of asparagus bean in the future.
We examined the changes in the heart of rats at the early stages of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes, and whether azuki bean extract (ABE) could influence these changes. The experimental diabetic rats received 0 or 40 mg/kg of ABE orally for 4 weeks, whereas the control group rats received distilled water. 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) and expression of proteins associated with peroxisomal FA β-oxidation as well as oxidative stress markers were examined. The levels of peroxisomal ACOX1 and catalase of the diabetic groups were significantly higher than those in the control group. The levels of p62, phosphorylated-p62 (p-p62) and HO-1 in the STZ group were significantly higher than those in the control group, and the levels of p-p62, HO-1, and 8-OHdG were significantly lower by ABE administration. The STZ-induced early diabetes increases the levels of proteins related to peroxisomal FA β-oxidation and oxidative stress markers in hearts. ABE protects diabetic hearts from oxidative damage.
Interferon-induced expression of programmed cell death ligands (PD-L1/PD-L2) may sustain tumour immune-evasion. Patients featuring MET amplification, a genetic lesion driving transformation, may benefit from anti-MET treatment. We explored if MET-targeted therapy interferes with Interferon-γ modulation of PD-L1/PD-L2 in MET-amplified tumours. PD-L1/PD-L2 expression and signalling pathways downstream of MET or Interferon-γ were analysed in MET-amplified tumour cell lines and in patient-derived tumour organoids, in basal condition, upon Interferon-γ stimulation, and after anti-MET therapy. PD-L1 and PD-L2 were upregulated in MET-amplified tumour cells upon Interferon-γ treatment. This induction was impaired by JNJ-605, a selective inhibitor of MET kinase activity, and MvDN30, an antibody inducing MET proteolytic cleavage. We found that activation of JAKs/ STAT1, signal transducers downstream of the Interferon-γ receptor, was neutralised by MET inhibitors. Moreover, JAK2 and MET associated in the same signalling complex depending on MET phosphorylation. Results were confirmed in MET-amplified organoids derived from human colorectal tumours, where JNJ-605 treatment revoked Interferon-γ induced PD-L1 expression. These data show that in MET-amplified cancers, treatment with MET inhibitors counteracts the induction of PD-1 ligands by Interferon-γ. Thus, therapeutic use of anti-MET drugs may provide additional clinical benefit over and above the intended inhibition of the target oncogene.
Heat shock transcription factors (Hsfs) are essential elements in plant signal transduction pathways that mediate gene expression in response to various abiotic stresses. Mungbean (
The expanding world population is expected to double the worldwide demand for food by 2050. Eighty-eight percent of countries currently face a serious burden of malnutrition, especially in Africa and south and southeast Asia. About 95% of the food energy needs of humans are fulfilled by just 30 species, of which wheat, maize, and rice provide the majority of calories. Therefore, to diversify and stabilize the global food supply, enhance agricultural productivity, and tackle malnutrition, greater use of neglected or underutilized local plants (so-called orphan crops, but also including a few plants of special significance to agriculture, agroforestry, and nutrition) could be a partial solution. Here, we present draft genome information for five agriculturally, biologically, medicinally, and economically important underutilized plants native to Africa: Vigna subterranea, Lablab purpureus, Faidherbia albida, Sclerocarya birrea, and Moringa oleifera. Assembled genomes range in size from 217 to 654 Mb. In V. subterranea, L. purpureus, F. albida, S. birrea, and M. oleifera, we have predicted 31,707, 20,946, 28,979, 18,937, and 18,451 protein-coding genes, respectively. By further analyzing the expansion and contraction of selected gene families, we have characterized root nodule symbiosis genes, transcription factors, and starch biosynthesis-related genes in these genomes. These genome data will be useful to identify and characterize agronomically important genes and understand their modes of action, enabling genomics-based, evolutionary studies, and breeding strategies to design faster, more focused, and predictable crop improvement programs.
The seminal participation of WRKY transcription factors in plant development, metabolism and in the governance of defense mechanism implicated their gaining importance for genomic and functional studies. The recent release of draft genome sequences of two legume crops, Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) and Mung bean (Vigna radiata) has paved the way for characterization of WRKY gene family in these crops. We found 84 WRKY genes in Adzuki bean (VaWRKY) and 85 WRKY genes in Mung bean (VrWRKY). Based on the phylogenetic analysis, VaWRKY genes were classified into three groups with 15 members in Group I, 56 members in Group II, and 13 members in Group III, which was comparable to VrWRKY distribution in Mung bean, 16, 56 and 13 members in Group I, II and III, respectively. The few tandem and segmental duplication events suggested that recent duplication plays no prominent role in the expansion VaWRKY and VrWRKY genes. The illustration of gene-structure and their encoded protein-domains further revealed the nature of WRKY proteins. Moreover, the identification of abiotic or biotic stress-responsive cis-regulatory elements in the promoter regions of some WRKY genes provides fundamental insights for their further implementation in stress-tolerance and genetic improvement of agronomic traits.
Environmental stresses can reduce crop yield and quality considerably. Plants protect cell metabolism in response to abiotic stresses at all stages of their life cycle, including seed production. As the production of vigorous seeds is important to both yield and crop growth, we analyzed causes of yield loss and reduced grain quality in staple crops exposed to environmental stresses such as drought and temperature extremes, with a focus on the remobilization of nutrients and water status during seed filling. Because water is one of the factors that limit seed development, seeds must have mechanisms that allow them to withstand water loss during seed maturation. In addition, analysis of the effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on transcription regulation and signaling should help to elucidate the regulation of seed dormancy and germination. In this review, we focus on nutrient remobilization, water mobility, plant hormones (gibberellins, abscisic acid, and ethylene), and ROS in sink and source organs and describe how rice, wheat, barley, soybean, and cowpea plants control seed maturation and germination under environmental stresses.
Cowpea is an important horticultural crop in tropical and subtropical areas of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, as well as parts of southern Europe and Central and South America. Chilling injury is a common physiological hazard of cowpea in cold chain logistics which reduce the cowpea pods nutritional quality and product value. However, the molecular mechanism involved in chilling injury remains unclear in cowpea pods. RNA-Seq and sRNA-Seq technologies were employed to decipher the miRNAs and mRNAs expression profiles and their regulatory networks in cowpea pods involved in chilling stress. Differentially expressed miRNAs and mRNA profiles were obtained based on cluster analysis, miRNAs and target genes were found to show coherent relationships in the regulatory networks of chilling injury. Furthermore, we found that numerous miRNAs and nat-siRNAs' targets were predicted to be key enzymes involved in the redox reactions such as POD, CAT, AO and LOX, energy metabolism such as ATPase, FAD and NAD related enzymes and different transcription factors such as WRKY, bHLH, MYB, ERF and NAC which play important roles in chilling injury.
Mung bean and adzuki bean are warm-season legumes widely cultivated in China. However, bean production in major producing regions is limited by biotic and abiotic stress, such as drought and salt stress. Basic leucine zipper (bZIP) genes play key roles in responses to various biotic and abiotic stresses. However, only several bZIP genes involved in drought and salt stress in legumes, especially Vigna radiata and Vigna angularis, have been identified. In this study, we identified 54 and 50 bZIP proteins from whole-genome sequences of V. radiata and V. angularis, respectively. First, we comprehensively surveyed the characteristics of all bZIP genes, including their gene structure, chromosome distribution and motif composition. Phylogenetic trees showed that VrbZIP and VabZIP proteins were divided into ten clades comprising nine known and one unknown subgroup. The results of the nucleotide substitution rate of the orthologous gene pairs showed that bZIP proteins have undergone strong purifying selection: V. radiata and V. angularis diverged 1.25 million years ago (mya) to 9.20 mya (average of 4.95 mya). We also found that many cis-acting regulatory elements (CAREs) involved in abiotic stress and plant hormone responses were detected in the putative promoter regions of the bZIP genes. Finally, using the quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) method, we performed expression profiling of the bZIP genes in response to drought, salt and abscisic acid (ABA). We identified several bZIP genes that may be involved in drought and salt responses. Generally, our results provided useful and rich resources of VrbZIP and VabZIP genes for the functional characterization and understanding of bZIP transcription factors (TFs) in warm-season legumes. In addition, our results revealed important and interesting data - a subset of VrbZIP and VabZIP gene expression profiles in response to drought, salt and ABA stress. These results provide gene expression evidence for the selection of candidate genes under drought and salt stress for future study.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is the most important food and forage legume in the semi-arid tropics of sub-Saharan Africa where approximately 80% of worldwide production takes place primarily on low-input, subsistence farm sites. Among the major goals of cowpea breeding and improvement programs are the rapid manipulation of agronomic traits for seed size and quality and improved resistance to abiotic and biotic stresses to enhance productivity. Knowing the suite of transcription factors (TFs) and transcriptionally active proteins (TAPs) that control various critical plant cellular processes would contribute tremendously to these improvement aims. We used a computational approach that employed three different predictive pipelines to data mine the cowpea genome and identified over 4400 genes representing 136 different TF and TAP families. We compare the information content of cowpea to two evolutionarily close species common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), and soybean (Glycine max) to gauge the relative informational content. Our data indicate that correcting for genome size cowpea has fewer TF and TAP genes than common bean (4408 / 5291) and soybean (4408/ 11,065). Members of the GROWTH-REGULATING FACTOR (GRF) and Auxin/indole-3-acetic acid (Aux/IAA) gene families appear to be over-represented in the genome relative to common bean and soybean, whereas members of the MADS (Minichromosome maintenance deficient 1 (MCM1), AGAMOUS, DEFICIENS, and serum response factor (SRF)) and C2C2-YABBY appear to be under-represented. Analysis of the AP2-EREBP APETALA2-Ethylene Responsive Element Binding Protein (AP2-EREBP), NAC (NAM (no apical meristem), ATAF1, 2 (Arabidopsis transcription activation factor), CUC (cup-shaped cotyledon)), and WRKY families, known to be important in defense signaling, revealed changes and phylogenetic rearrangements relative to common bean and soybean that suggest these groups may have evolved different functions. The availability of detailed information on the coding capacity of the cowpea genome and in particular the various TF and TAP gene families will facilitate future comparative analysis and development of strategies for controlling growth, differentiation, and abiotic and biotic stress resistances of cowpea.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated phosphorylation cascade is a vital component of plant cellular signalling. Despite this, MAPK signalling cascade is less characterized in crop legumes. To fill this void, we present here a comprehensive phylogeny of MAPK kinases (MKKs) and MAPKs identified from 16 legume species belonging to genistoid (Lupinus angustifolius), dalbergioid (Arachis spp.), phaseoloid (Glycine max, Cajanus cajan, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Vigna spp.), and galegoid (Cicer arietinum, Lotus japonicus, Medicago truncatula, Pisum sativum, Trifolium spp., and Vicia faba) clades. Using the genes of the diploid crop chickpea (C. arietinum), an exhaustive interaction analysis was performed between MKKs and MAPKs by split-ubiquitin based yeast two-hybrid (Y2H). Twenty seven interactions of varying strengths were identified between chickpea MKKs and MAPKs. These interactions were verified in planta by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). As a first report in plants, four intra-molecular interactions of weak strength were identified within chickpea MKKs. Additionally; two TEOSINTE-BRANCHED1/CYCLOIDEA/PCF (TCP) transcription factors of class I were identified as novel down-stream interacting partners of seven MAPKs. We propose that this highly reliable MAPK interaction network, presented here for chickpea, can be utilized as a reference for legumes and thus will help in deciphering their role in legume-specific events.
Pigeonpea (Cajanus cajan L.), a diploid legume crop, is a member of the tribe Phaseoleae. This tribe is descended from the millettioid (tropical) clade of the subfamily Papilionoideae, which includes many important legume crop species such as soybean (Glycine max), mung bean (Vigna radiata), cowpea (Vigna ungiculata), and common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). It plays major role in food and nutritional security, being rich source of proteins, minerals and vitamins. We have developed a comprehensive Pigeonpea Transcription Factors Database (PpTFDB) that encompasses information about 1829 putative transcription factors (TFs) and their 55 TF families. PpTFDB provides a comprehensive information about each of the identified TFs that includes chromosomal location, protein physicochemical properties, sequence data, protein functional annotation, simple sequence repeats (SSRs) with primers derived from their motifs, orthology with related legume crops, and gene ontology (GO) assignment to respective TFs. (PpTFDB: http://14.139.229.199/PpTFDB/Home.aspx) is a freely available and user friendly web resource that facilitates users to retrieve the information of individual members of a TF family through a set of query interfaces including TF ID or protein functional annotation. In addition, users can also get the information by browsing interfaces, which include browsing by TF Categories and by, GO Categories. This PpTFDB will serve as a promising central resource for researchers as well as breeders who are working towards crop improvement of legume crops.
The MYB gene family represents one of the largest groups of transcription factors in plants. Recent evidences have also demonstrated key role of MYB transcription factors in regulating the expression of major genes involved in the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoid compounds which confer biotic and abiotic stress tolerance in plant species. However, no comprehensive genome-wide analysis of the phenylpropanoid pathway-associated MYB transcription factors has been reported thus far. In this study, 11 Arabidopsis MYB proteins, such as MYB3, MYB4, MYB7, MYB11, MYB12, MYB32, MYB75, MYB90, MYB111, MYB113, and MYB114 were initially identified considering their reported regulatory function in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway. Subsequent genome-wide analysis have identified the corresponding homologues from Glycine max, Vigna radiata, Oryza sativa, and Zea mays, while homologous of Arabidopsis MYB75, MYB90, MYB113, and MYB114 were not detected in rice and maize genomes. The identified MYB proteins were classified into three groups (I-III) based on phylogeny. Sequence and domain analysis revealed presence of two conserved DNA binding MYB domains in the selected MYB proteins. Promoter analysis indicated presence of cis-regulatory elements related to light signaling, development, and stress response. Expression analysis of selected Arabidopsis MYB genes revealed their function in plant development and abiotic stress response, consistent with gene ontology annotations. Together, these results provide a useful framework for further experimental studies for the functional characterization of the target MYB genes in the context of regulation of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and plant stress response.
Adzuki beans (Vigna angularis), one of the most important legume crops in East Asia, have been shown to possess potential antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects in mice. Here, we investigated the effects of black adzuki bean (BAB) on colon inflammation triggered by high-fat diet (HD)-induced obesity in mice. We also isolated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated peritoneal macrophages and assessed inflammation-related parameters. We found that BAB decreased the concentrations of LPS and various circulating proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-6 in mice with HD-induced obesity. BAB also attenuated changes associated with HD-induced colon inflammation, such as increased expression of proinflammatory cytokines. Moreover, BAB inhibited induction of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, and activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) in the colon. Furthermore, BAB upregulated colon mRNA expression of tight junction-associated proteins such as claudin-1 and Zo-1, as well as mucosal barrier defense promoting genes such as mucin (Muc) 1 and Muc3. BAB also reduced macrophage infiltration into adipose tissue in mice with HD-induced intestinal inflammation. In LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages, treatment with BAB significantly decreased TNF-α and NO production, NF-κB activation, and iNOS expression. Our findings indicate that BAB ameliorates HD-induced disorders such as obesity and colitis by improving mucosal barrier protection and reducing endotoxemia, as well as by inactivating NF-κB to decrease the production of proinflammatory cytokines.
Hydrogen peroxide (H RNA-Seq data revealed that H Using RNA-Seq and qRT-PCR techniques, we analysed the global changes in gene expression and functional profiling during H
Cereals and legumes are traditionally consumed together in many cultures, and may provide complementary health benefits beyond what is known about improved indispensable amino acid intake. Here, we use an in vitro model of inflammatory pathways to investigate whether the different flavonoids in sorghum and cowpea could synergistically reduce inflammation. Interactive effect of combining apigenin and quercetin, as well as extracts (70% acetone, v/v) from a flavone-dominated white sorghum and flavonol-dominated white cowpea, against LPS-induced NF-κB and downstream cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8) gene and protein expression was evaluated using the CCD18Co colon myofibroblasts. Combination of apigenin and quercetin, and sorghum and cowpea extracts synergistically downregulated LPS-induced NF-κB gene and protein expression in a dose-dependent manner, with additive effect producing IC Combining the structurally related cereal flavones and legume flavonols elicit strong synergistic anti-inflammatory response in LPS-stimulated nonmalignant colonocytes, likely by targeting interdependent mechanisms.
Cardiac hypertrophy is a major risk factor for heart failure. Hence, its attenuation represents an important clinical goal. Erk1,2 signalling is pivotal in the cardiac response to stress, suggesting that its inhibition may be a good strategy to revert heart hypertrophy. In this work, we unveiled the events associated with cardiac hypertrophy by means of a transgenic model expressing activated Met receptor. c-Met proto-oncogene encodes for the tyrosine kinase receptor of Hepatocyte growth factor and is a strong inducer of Ras-Raf-Mek-Erk1,2 pathway. We showed that three weeks after the induction of activated Met, the heart presents a remarkable concentric hypertrophy, with no signs of congestive failure and preserved contractility. Cardiac enlargement is accompanied by upregulation of growth-regulating transcription factors, natriuretic peptides, cytoskeletal proteins, and Extracellular Matrix remodelling factors (Timp1 and Pai1). At a later stage, cardiac hypertrophic remodelling results into heart failure with preserved systolic function. Prevention trial by suppressing activated Met showed that cardiac hypertrophy is reversible, and progression to heart failure is prevented. Notably, treatment with Pimasertib, Mek1 inhibitor, attenuates cardiac hypertrophy and remodelling. Our results suggest that modulation of Erk1.2 signalling may constitute a new therapeutic approach for treating cardiac hypertrophies.
Bambara groundnut (Vigna subterranea (L.) Verdc.) is an African legume and is a promising underutilized crop with good seed nutritional values. Low temperature stress in a number of African countries at night, such as Botswana, can effect the growth and development of bambara groundnut, leading to losses in potential crop yield. Therefore, in this study we developed a computational pipeline to identify and analyze the genes and gene modules associated with low temperature stress responses in bambara groundnut using the cross-species microarray technique (as bambara groundnut has no microarray chip) coupled with network-based analysis. Analyses of the bambara groundnut transcriptome using cross-species gene expression data resulted in the identification of 375 and 659 differentially expressed genes (p<0.01) under the sub-optimal (23°C) and very sub-optimal (18°C) temperatures, respectively, of which 110 genes are commonly shared between the two stress conditions. The construction of a Highest Reciprocal Rank-based gene co-expression network, followed by its partition using a Heuristic Cluster Chiseling Algorithm resulted in 6 and 7 gene modules in sub-optimal and very sub-optimal temperature stresses being identified, respectively. Modules of sub-optimal temperature stress are principally enriched with carbohydrate and lipid metabolic processes, while most of the modules of very sub-optimal temperature stress are significantly enriched with responses to stimuli and various metabolic processes. Several transcription factors (from MYB, NAC, WRKY, WHIRLY & GATA classes) that may regulate the downstream genes involved in response to stimulus in order for the plant to withstand very sub-optimal temperature stress were highlighted. The identified gene modules could be useful in breeding for low-temperature stress tolerant bambara groundnut varieties.
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) is commonly grown in Asia as an important nutritional dry grain legume, as it can survive better in arid conditions than other crops. Abiotic stresses, such as drought and high-salt contents, negatively impact its growth and production. The dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2 (DREB2) transcription factors play a significant role in the response to these stress stimuli via transcriptional regulation of downstream genes containing the cis-element dehydration-responsive element (DRE). However, the molecular mechanisms involved in the drought tolerance of this species remain elusive, with very few reported candidate genes. No DREB2 ortholog has been reported for mung bean, and the function of mung bean DREB2 is not clear. In this study, a novel VrDREB2A gene with conserved AP2 domains and transactivation ability was isolated from mung bean. A modified VrDREB2A protein lacking the putative negative regulatory domain encoded by nucleotides 394-543 was shown to be localized in the nucleus. Expression of the VrDREB2A gene was induced by drought, high salt concentrations and abscisic acid treatment. Furthermore, comparing with the wild type Arabidopsis, the overexpression of VrDREB2A activated the expression of downstream genes in transgenic Arabidopsis, resulting in enhanced tolerance to drought and high-salt stresses and no growth retardation. The results from this study indicate that VrDREB2A functions as an important transcriptional activator and may help increase the abiotic stress tolerance of the mung bean plant.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease associated with a combination of synovium joint inflammation, synovium hyperplasia, and destruction of cartilage and bone. Oleanolic acid acetate (OAA), a compound isolated from Vigna angularis, has been known to possess pharmacological activities, including anti-inflammation and anti-bone destruction. In this study, we investigated the effects of OAA on RA and the underlying mechanisms of action by using a type-II collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α-stimulated RA synovial fibroblasts. Oral administration of OAA decreased the clinical arthritis symptoms, paw thickness, histologic and radiologic changes, and serum total and anti-type II collagen IgG, IgG1, and IgG2a levels. OAA administration reduced Th1/Th17 phenotype CD4(+) T lymphocyte expansions and inflammatory cytokine productions in T cell activated draining lymph nodes and spleen. OAA reduced the expression and production of inflammatory mediators, such as cytokines and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1/3, in the ankle joint tissue and RA synovial fibroblasts by down-regulating Akt, mitogen-activated protein kinases, and nuclear factor-κB. Our results clearly support that OAA plays a therapeutic role in RA pathogenesis by modulating helper T cell immune responses and matrix-degrading enzymes. The immunosuppressive effects of OAA were comparable to dexamethasone and ketoprofen. We provide evidences that OAA could be a potential therapeutic candidate for RA.
The rice bean (Vigna umbellata) root apex specifically secretes citrate through expression activation of Vigna umbellata Multidrug and Toxic Compound Extrusion 1 (VuMATE1) under aluminum (Al(3+) ) stress. However, the underlying mechanisms regulating VuMATE1 expression remain unknown. We isolated and characterized a gene encoding Sensitive to Proton Rhizotoxicity1 (STOP1)-like protein, VuSTOP1, from rice bean. The role of VuSTOP1 in regulating VuMATE1 expression was investigated using the yeast one-hybrid assay. We characterized the function of VuSTOP1 in Al(3) (+) - and H(+) -tolerance using in planta complementation assays. We demonstrated that VuSTOP1 has transactivation potential. We found that VuSTOP1 expression is inducible by Al(3+) and H(+) stress. However, although VuSTOP1 binds to the promoter of VuMATE1, the inconsistent tissue localization patterns of VuSTOP1 and VuMATE1 preclude VuSTOP1 as the major factor regulating VuMATE1 expression. In addition, when a protein translation inhibitor increased expression of VuSTOP1, VuMATE1 expression was inhibited. In planta complementation assay demonstrated that VuSTOP1 could fully restore expression of genes involved in H(+) tolerance, but could only partially restore expression of AtMATE. We conclude that VuSTOP1 plays a major role in H(+) tolerance, but only a minor role in Al(3+) tolerance. The differential transcriptional regulation of VuSTOP1 and VuMATE1 reveals a complex regulatory system controlling VuMATE1 expression.
The aim of this work was to investigate the effects of black adzuki bean (BAB) extract on adipocytes, and to elucidate the cellular mechanisms. In order to examine the proliferation of preadipocytes and differentiating adipocytes, cell viability and DNA content were measured over a period of time. Lipid accumulation during cell differentiation and the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of BAB on the transcriptional factors involved, with their anti-adipogenic effects, were also identified. We observed that BAB exhibits anti-adipogenic effects through the inhibition of proliferation, thereby lowering mRNA expression of C/EBPβ and suppressing adipogenesis during the early stage of differentiation. This, in turn, resulted in a reduction of TG accumulation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Treating the cells with BAB not only suppressed the adipogenesis-associated key transcription factors PPARγ and C/EBPα but also significantly decreased the mRNA expression of GLUT4, FABP4, LPL and adiponectin. The expression of lipolytic genes like ATGL and HSL were higher in the treatment group than in the control. Overall, the black adzuki bean extract demonstrated an anti-adipogenic property, which makes it a potential dietary supplement for attenuation of obesity.
A novel, Gram-staining-negative, rod-shaped, aerobic and motile bacterium, designated strain CC-SKC2(T), was isolated from the root tumor of a green bell pepper (Capsicum annuum var. grossum) plant in Taiwan. Cells were positive for oxidase and catalase activities and exhibited growth at 25-37 °C, pH 4.0-9.0 and tolerated NaCl concentrations up to 4.0 % (w/v). Strain CC-SKC2(T) is able to trigger nodulation in soybean (Glycine max Merr.), but not in Capsicum annuum var. grossum, red bean (Vigna angularis), sesbania (Sesbania roxburghii Merr.) or alfalfa (Medicago varia Martin.). The novel strain shared highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to Rhizobium rhizoryzae KCTC 23652(T) and Rhizobium straminoryzae CC-LY845(T) (both 97.5 %) followed by Rhizobium lemnae L6-16(T) (97.3 %), Rhizobium pseudoryzae KCTC 23294(T) (97.1 %), and Rhizobium paknamense NBRC 109338(T) (97.0 %), whereas other Rhizobium species shared <96.7 % similarity. The DNA-DNA relatedness values of strain CC-SKC2(T) with R. rhizoryzae KCTC 23652(T), R. pseudoryzae KCTC 23294(T) and R. paknamense NBRC 109338(T) were 11.4, 17.2 and 17.0 %, respectively (reciprocal values were 11.1, 28.3 and 24.0 %, respectively). Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA, atpD and recA genes revealed a distinct taxonomic position attained by strain CC-SKC2(T) with respect to other Rhizobium species. The major fatty acids in strain CC-SKC2(T) were C16:0, C19:0 cyclo ω8c, C14:0 3-OH and/or C16:1 iso I and C18:1 ω7c and/or C18:1 ω6c. The polyamine pattern showed predominance of spermidine and moderate amounts of sym-homospermidine. The predominant quinone system was ubiquinone (Q-10) and the DNA G+C content was 60.5 mol%. On the basis of polyphasic taxonomic evidence presented here, strain CC-SKC2(T) is proposed to represent a novel species within the genus Rhizobium, for which the name Rhizobium capsici sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is CC-SKC2(T) (=BCRC 80699(T) = JCM 19535(T)).
The prevalence of black gram (Vigna mungo) induced allergic reactions are reported from several parts of the world including Asia and Australia. But, a thorough exploration of the allergic reactions induced by black gram proteins is still lacking. Therefore, efforts have been made to explore black gram allergy using in vivo and in vitro approaches. In this study, Simulated Gastric Fluid (SGF) assay and IgE immunoblotting were carried out to identify clinically relevant allergens of black gram. BALB/c mice and RBL-2H3 cells were used for elucidation of allergenic reactions of black gram proteins. Further, this study was extended to screen black gram sensitive patients among nasobronchial allergic patients on the basis of clinical history, skin prick test (SPT), specific IgE levels and IgE immunoblotting. Enhanced levels of specific IgE, IgG1/IgG2a (p < 0.05), histamine (p < 0.05), clinical symptoms, pathological indications in the lungs, intestine and spleen were evident in black gram sensitized BALB/c mice. Moreover, the expression of Th2 cytokine transcripts and GATA-3/T-bet ratio was found enhanced in the treated group. In vitro studies on RBL-2H3 cells,showed increased release of β-hexosaminidase (p < 0.05), histamine (p < 0.05), cysteinyl leukotriene (p<0.05) and prostaglandin D2 (p < 0.05). Further, 8.5% of screened patients were found allergic to black gram and concomitant sensitization with other allergens has shown the possibility of further enhancement in allergenic problem. Conclusively, the present study suggested that black gram consumption may be responsible for inducing immediate type of allergic sensitization in susceptible subjects.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important grain legume cultivated in drought-prone parts of the world, having higher tolerance to heat and drought than many other crops. The transcription factor, Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding protein 2A (DREB2A), controls expression of many genes involved in osmotic and heat stress responses of plants. In Arabidopsis, DREB2A-interacting proteins (DRIPs), which function as E3 ubiquitin ligases (EC 6.3.2.19), regulate the stability of DREB2A by targeting it for proteasome-mediated degradation. In this study, we cloned the cowpea ortholog of DRIP (VuDRIP) using PCR based methods. The 1614 bp long VuDRIP mRNA encoded a protein of 433 amino acids having a C3HC4-type Really Interesting New Gene (RING) domain in the N-terminus and a C-terminal conserved region, similar to Arabidopsis DRIP1 and DRIP2. We found VuDRIP up-regulation in response to various abiotic stresses and phytohormones. Using yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisae) two-hybrid analysis, VuDRIP was identified as a VuDREB2A-interacting protein. The results indicate negative regulation of VuDREB2A by ubiquitin ligases in cowpea similar to Arabidopsis along with their other unknown roles in stress and hormone signaling pathways.
Osteoporosis is a global public health problem thought to be caused by an imbalance in bone metabolism. We examined in this study the 40% ethanol fraction of HP-20 resin in combination with a hot-water adzuki extract (EtEx.40) for its effect on osteoblast and osteoclast differentiation. EtEx.40-treated murine preosteoblast MC3T3-E1 cells exhibited significantly elevated alkaline phosphatase activity and mineralization. EtEx.40 facilitated osteoblast differentiation by up-regulating such osteoblast differentiation-related molecules as runt-related transcription factor 2, distal-less homeobox 5, and osterix via p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. EtEx.40 also suppressed the formation of large tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase-positive multinucleated cells in RAW264.7 cells that had been stimulated with the receptor activator of the nuclear factor κB ligand/macrophage colony-stimulating factor. EtEx.40 significantly inhibited NF-κB activation, thus reducing the expression of such downstream molecules as c-Fos and NFATc1. Our findings suggest that EtEx.40 could be used to maintain bone mass.
VuDREB2A exists in cowpea as a canonical DREB2-type transcription factor, having the ability to bind dehydration-responsive elements in vitro and confer enhanced drought resistance in transgenic Arabidopsis. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important cultivated legume that can survive better in arid conditions than other crops. But the molecular mechanisms involved in the drought tolerance of this species remain elusive with very few reported candidate genes. The Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding Protein2 (DREB2) group of transcription factors plays key roles in plant responses to drought. However, no DREB2 ortholog has been reported from cowpea so far. In this study, we isolated and characterized a gene from cowpea, namely VuDREB2A, encoding a protein of 377 amino acids exhibiting features of reported DREB2-type proteins. In cowpea, VuDREB2A transcript accumulation was highly induced by desiccation, heat and salt, but slightly by exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. We also isolated the VuDREB2A promoter and predicted stress-responsive cis-elements in it using Arabidopsis microarray data. The E. coli-expressed VuDREB2A protein showed binding to synthetic oligonucleotides with Dehydration-Responsive Elements (DREs) from Arabidopsis, in electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Heterologous expression of VuDREB2A in Arabidopsis significantly improved plant survival under drought. In addition, overexpression of a truncated version of VuDREB2A, after removal of a putative negative regulatory domain (between amino acids 132-182) led to a dwarf phenotype in the transgenic plants. Microarray and quantitative PCR analyses of VuDREB2A overexpressing Arabidopsis revealed up-regulation of stress-responsive genes having DRE overrepresented in their promoters. In summary, our results indicate that VuDREB2A conserves the basic functionality and mode of regulation of DREB2A in Arabidopsis and could be a potent candidate gene for the genetic improvement of drought resistance in cowpea.
Owing to their potential pharmacological activities in human disease, natural plant-derived compounds have recently become the focus of increased research interest. In this study, we first isolated oleanolic acid acetate (OAA), a triterpenoid compound, from Vigna angularis (azuki bean) to discover anti-bone resorptive agents. Many studies have identified and described the various medicinal effects of V. angularis extract. However, the pharmacological effect of OAA-derived V. angularis extract, particularly the effect on osteoclastogenesis, is not known. Therefore, we investigated the effect and mechanism of OAA in receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL)-induced osteoclastogenesis. OAA inhibited RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation in bone marrow macrophages (BMMs) without any evidence of cytotoxicity. Interestingly, OAA significantly inhibited Btk phosphorylation, phospholipase Cγ2 (PLCγ2) phosphorylation, calcium ion (Ca(2+)) oscillation, and nuclear factor of activated T cell c1 (NFATc1) expression in RANKL-stimulated BMMs, but did not affect RANKL-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase. OAA also inhibited the bone-resorbing activity of mature osteoclasts. Furthermore, mice treated with OAA demonstrated marked attenuation of lipopolysaccharide-induced bone erosion based on micro-computed tomography and histologic analysis of femurs. Taken together, the results suggested that OAA inhibited RANKL-mediated osteoclastogenesis via PLCγ2-Ca(2+)-NFATc1 signaling in vitro and suppressed inflammatory bone loss in vivo.
In this work we have characterised the Sinorhizobium fredii HH103 greA lpsB lpsCDE genetic region and analysed for the first time the symbiotic performance of Sinorhizobium fredii lps mutants on soybean. The organization of the S. fredii HH103 greA, lpsB, and lpsCDE genes was equal to that of Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021. S. fredii HH103 greA, lpsB, and lpsE mutant derivatives produced altered LPS profiles that were characteristic of the gene mutated. In addition, S. fredii HH103 greA mutants showed a reduction in bacterial mobility and an increase of auto-agglutination in liquid cultures. RT-PCR and qPCR experiments demonstrated that the HH103 greA gene has a positive effect on the transcription of lpsB. Soybean plants inoculated with HH103 greA, lpsB or lpsE mutants formed numerous ineffective pseudonodules and showed severe symptoms of nitrogen starvation. However, HH103 greA and lps mutants were also able to induce the formation of a reduced number of soybean nodules of normal external morphology, allowing the possibility of studying the importance of bacterial LPS in later stages of the S. fredii HH103-soybean symbiosis. The infected cells of these nodules showed signs of early termination of symbiosis and lytical clearance of bacteroids. These cells also had very thick walls and accumulation of phenolic-like compounds, pointing to induced defense reactions. Our results show the importance of bacterial LPS in later stages of the S. fredii HH103-soybean symbiosis and their role in preventing host cell defense reactions. S. fredii HH103 lpsB mutants also showed reduced nodulation with Vigna unguiculata, although the symbiotic impairment was less pronounced than in soybean.
The present study was conducted in order to assess whether extracts or isolated compounds from Vigna angularis were able to suppress IL-6 signalling and to show the therapeutic effect on collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice. The effect of V. angularis on IL-6 signalling was studied by measuring Stat3-dependent luciferase activity, expression of inflammation-related genes, and phosphorylation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) induced by IL-6. CIA was induced by immunizing with bovine type II collagen. V. angularis extract (VAE) was administrated orally at 50 and 100 mg/kg from day 1 to day 28. Induction of arthritis was evaluated with a visual scoring system and histological analysis. Extracts or two triterpenoid compounds from V. angularis showed potent inhibitory effects on pSTAT3-inducible luciferase activity, STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation and the expression of inflammation-related genes induced by IL-6. Administration of VAE significantly suppressed the progression of CIA, accompanied by a reduced antibody response to type II collagen and protection from tissue damage in knee joints. Administration of VAE has a therapeutic effect on CIA and this effect is associated with the inhibitory activity on IL-6/STAT3 signalling. These results suggest that extracts or compounds from V. angularis could be a useful treatment for diseases related to IL-6, including RA.
To investigate the incidence and clinical relevance of classic and new prognostic markers, IGHV gene mutational status, and chromosomal abnormalities in clinical monoclonal B lymphocytosis (cMBL) compared with Rai stage 0 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (Rai0-CLL). A group of 136 patients with cMBL and a group of 216 Rai0-CLL cases were investigated prospectively. IGHV-mutated cases were significantly more frequent among cMBLs (P = 0.005), whereas the distribution of CD38 and ZAP-70 positive cases, of patients with NOTCH1 and SF3B1 mutations or exhibiting the major CLL cytogenetic abnormalities, was similar in the two groups. Moreover, no significant differences were found either in IGHV/IGHD/IGHJ gene usage or in the overall prevalence of stereotyped IGHV gene sequences. Cells from cMBL and Rai0-CLL exhibited similar gene and microRNA (miRNA) signatures; in addition, when grouped according to the IGHV mutational status, IGHV-unmutated cases showed different transcriptional signatures compared with IGHV-mutated patients, irrespective of the cMBL or Rai0-CLL classification. cMBL diagnosis per se was predictive of longer progression-free survival. Our study based on a prospective series of patients indicates that no major differences exist between the circulating cells from cMBL and Rai0-CLL, at least based on a comparison of the markers used in the study. This possibly suggests that the two conditions mainly differ in the initial size of the monoclonal cell population, which may influence the subsequent timing of clonal expansion and clinical manifestations.
The aim of the present study was to elucidate whether extracts of Vigna angularis (EVA) inhibit allergic inflammatory reactions and to elucidate the possible mechanisms of action. For the assessment of allergic inflammatory response, histamine release and the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines from human mast cells (HMC-1) were examined. To identify the underlying mechanisms of action, intracellular calcium and the activation of nuclear factor (NF)-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) were assayed. To confirm the effects of EVA in vivo, systemic and local allergic reaction mouse models were employed. EVA dose-dependently reduced phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and calcium ionophore A23187 (PMACI)-induced histamine release from mast cells. The inhibitory effects of EVA on the release of histamine from mast cells were mediated by the reduction of intracellular calcium levels. EVA decreased the PMACI-stimulated gene expression and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interleukin (IL)-6. The inhibitory effects of EVA on pro-inflammatory cytokines were NF-κB- and MAPK-dependent. In addition, EVA inhibited compound 48/80-induced systemic anaphylaxis and immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated cutaneous anaphylaxis. Our findings provide evidence that EVA inhibits mast cell-derived allergic inflammation, and suggest the possible therapeutic application of EVA in allergic inflammatory disorders.
In patients with metastatic breast cancer, the evaluation of the biological characteristics of metastatic bone deposits may be a valuable adjunct in clinical practice. We assessed the discordance in expression levels for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PgR) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) between primary tumor and bone metastases and its clinical impact on patient management. We retrospectively reviewed 363 CT-guided bone biopsies performed from January 1997 to December 2009. The proportions of ER, PgR and HER2 positive tumors at primary diagnosis and bone metastases, determined by IHC and/or FISH, were compared using McNemar's test. The impact of the biopsy reassessment on treatment choice was evaluated with Fisher's exact test. We selected 109 metastatic breast cancer patients with histologically confirmed bone metastases. Among 107 assessable patients the overall discordance rate was detected in 22 (20.5%) and in 47 (43.9%) patients for ER and PgR, respectively, and in six of 86 assessable patients (6.9%) for HER2 status. The indication to change endocrine therapy occurred in 62% and 30% of patients with ER discordance and ER concordance, respectively (p = 0.01). The indication to change targeted therapy occurred in 67% and 8% of patients with HER2 discordance and HER2 concordance, respectively (p = 0.002). We confirm that biopsy of metastases, including bone metastases, for reassessment of biology should be considered, since it is likely to impact on treatment choice.
Moth bean ( Vigna aconitifolia (Jacq.) Marechal) is an important grain legume crop grown in rain fed areas of hot desert regions of Thar, India, under scorching sun rays with very little supplementation of water. An SSH cDNA library was generated from leaf tissues of V. aconitifolia var. RMO-40 exposed to an elevated temperature of 42 °C for 5 min to identify early-induced genes. A total of 488 unigenes (114 contigs and 374 singletons) were derived by cluster assembly and sequence alignment of 738 ESTs; out of 206 ESTs (28%) of unknown proteins, 160 ESTs (14%) were found to be novel to moth bean. Only 578 ESTs (78%) showed significant BLASTX similarity (<1 × 10(-6)) in the NCBI non-redundant database. Gene ontology functional classification terms were retrieved for 479 (65%) sequences, and 339 sequences were annotated with 165 EC codes and mapped to 68 different KEGG pathways. Four hundred and fifty-two ESTs were further annotated with InterProScan (IPS), and no IPS was assigned to 153 ESTs. In addition, the expression level of 27 ESTs in response to heat stress was evaluated through semiquantitative RT-PCR assay. Approximately 20 different signaling genes and 16 different transcription factors have been shown to be associated with heat stress in moth bean for the first time.
Fetal malnutrition is an early-life inducer of dyslipidemia and glucose intolerance. The aim of this study was to examine whether maternal azuki bean (Vigna angularis) polyphenol (AP) intake during lactation affects the adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway and lipid metabolism in offspring exposed to fetal malnutrition. Pregnant Wistar rats were divided into three groups: a control diet offered during gestation and lactation (CC), a low-protein diet during gestation and a control diet during lactation (LPC); and a low-protein diet during gestation and a 1.0% AP-containing control diet during lactation (LPAP). Male pups were randomly selected for the study; half the pups were sacrificed at 3 wk of age and the other half were fed a standard diet and sacrificed at 23 wk. Hepatic triacylglycerol levels, phosphorylation levels of AMPK and acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase (ACC), and mRNA levels of sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c) were evaluated. Significant decreases in body weights and hepatic triacylglycerol levels were found in the LPAP compared with the LPC group. Plasma adiponectin levels in the LPAP group were higher than those in the LPC group. AMPK phosphorylation was upregulated in the livers and skeletal muscles in young and adult LPAP compared with LPC rats. ACC phosphorylation was upregulated in skeletal muscles of LPAP rats. SREBP-1c mRNA expression was decreased in the livers of LPAP rats. Our results suggest that maternal AP intake during lactation upregulates AMPK phosphorylation not only in young but also in adult offspring exposed to fetal malnutrition and may lead to decreased hepatic lipid accumulation by ACC phosphorylation and downregulation of SREBP-1c expression.
A MADS box gene AGL20/SOC1 is a main integrator in Arabidopsis flowering pathway whose structure and function are highly conserved in many plant species. A soybean MADS box gene GmGAL1 (Glycine max AGAMOUS Like 1) as a homolog of AGL20/SOC1, was cloned from soybean cultivar Kennong18 and its function was investigated in transgenic Arabidopsis lines. Sequence comparisons showed that the closest homolog gene to GmGAL1 is AGL20/SOC1 in Arabidopsis and VuSOC1 in Vigna unguiculata. We investigated the expression level of GmGAL1 using quantitative real-time PCR, and the result showed that GmGAL1 was regulated by a circadian mechanism and its expression oscillated at a cycle of 24 h. The expression level of GmGAL1 was fluctuated in diverse tissues/organs and developmental stages. Considering its expression can be detected in different tissues throughout the life cycle and its protein localized in cytoplasm in Arabidopsis protoplasm, we proposed that GmGAL1 may be a multifunctional gene in the context of the soybean development. Ectopic expression of GmGAL1 in Arabidopsis enhanced flowering under long-day condition and partially rescued soc1 late flowering type.
The aim of the study was to evaluate factors associated with early withdrawal from oncogenetic counseling. A comparison of psycho-social and personality characteristics of two samples of subjects, attendees and withdrawers was carried out. Self-report questionnaires were completed by 112 individuals who had completed counseling and to 56 individuals who withdrew from it. Individuals with few children (OR. 1,724; p = 0,017; CI = 1,101-2,700), a lower number of cancer affected relatives (OR. 1,301; p = 0,000; CI = 1,145-1,479), and with a lower hypomanic scale score (OR. 1,070; p = 0,004; CI = 1,022-1,121), were more likely to withdraw from counseling. It is important for the counselees to draw more attention to the fact that their cancer risk management and prevention is as fundamental as that of their children. Also, it is important to highlight the fact that having less cancer affected relatives does not necessarily mean being at lower risk. In conclusion, that subjects with low levels of psychological and emotional energy are those who probably need greater psychological support during the decision making process. We deem necessary that psychologists, involved in genetic counseling, investigate these aspects during their sessions in order to implement suitable interventions of psychological support during the entire counseling process.
Currently, the acquisition of tissue from metastatic deposits is not recommended as a routine practice. Our aim was to evaluate the discordance rate of estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PgR), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) receptor status between primary tumor and liver metastases and its potential impact on treatment choice. We retrospectively analyzed a database including 1250 ultrasound-guided liver biopsies carried out at the European Institute of Oncology from August 1999 to March 2009. ER, PgR, and HER2 status were determined by immunohistochemistry and/or FISH. Differences between proportions were evaluated using Fisher's exact test. We identified 255 consecutive patients with matched primary and liver tissue samples. Changes in ER status were observed in 37 of 255 patients (14.5%). Changes in PgR status were observed in 124 of 255 patients (48.6%). Changes in HER2 status were observed in 24 of 172 assessable patients (13.9%). We observed a discordance in receptor status (ER, PgR, and HER2) between primary tumor and liver metastases, which led to change in therapy for 31 of 255 of patients (12.1%). Biopsy of metastases for reassessment of biological features should be considered in all patients, when safe and easy to carry out, since it is likely to impact treatment choice.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenous, noncoding, short RNAs directly involved in regulating gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. High conservation of miRNAs in plant provides the foundation for identification of new miRNAs in other plant species through homology alignment. Here, previous known plant miRNAs were BLASTed against the Expressed Sequence Tag (EST) and Genomic Survey Sequence (GSS) databases of Vigna unguiculata, and according to a series of filtering criteria, a total of 47 miRNAs belonging to 13 miRNA families were identified, and 30 potential target genes of them were subsequently predicted, most of which seemed to encode transcription factors or enzymes participating in regulation of development, growth, metabolism, and other physiological processes. Overall, our findings lay the foundation for further researches of miRNAs function in Vigna unguiculata.
PhyR is an unusual type of response regulator consisting of a receiver domain and an extracytoplasmic function (ECF) sigma factor-like domain. It was recently described as a master regulator of general stress response in Methylobacterium extorquens. Orthologues of this regulator are present in essentially all free-living Alphaproteobacteria. In most of them, phyR is genetically closely linked to a gene encoding an ECF sigma factor. Here, we investigate the role of these two regulators in the soybean symbiont Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110. Using deletion mutants and phenotypic assays, we showed that PhyR and the ECF sigma factor sigma(EcfG) are involved in heat shock and desiccation resistance upon carbon starvation. Both mutants had symbiotic defects on the plant hosts Glycine max (soybean) and Vigna radiata (mungbean). They induced fewer nodules than the wild type and these nodules were smaller, less pigmented, and their specific nitrogenase activity was drastically reduced 2 or 3 weeks after inoculation. Four weeks after infection, soybean nodule development caught up to a large extent whereas most mungbean nodules remained defective even 5 weeks after infection. Remarkably, both mutants triggered aberrant nodules on the different host plants with ectopically emerging roots. Microarray analysis revealed that PhyR and sigma(EcfG) control congruent regulons suggesting both regulators are part of the same signalling cascade. This finding was further substantiated by in vitro protein-protein interaction studies which are in line with a partner-switching mechanism controlling gene regulation triggered by phosphorylation of PhyR. The large number of genes of unknown function present in the PhyR/sigma(EcfG) regulon and the conspicuous symbiotic phenotype suggest that these regulators are involved in the Bradyrhizobium-legume interaction via yet undisclosed mechanisms.
Bacteria were isolated from the root nodules of Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper, grown in an arsenic-contaminated field and the strain was selected by its nodulation ability as well as better arsenic tolerant capacity compared to others. The selected strain was identified as Rhizobium by 16S rDNA sequencing and designated as VMA301. Phylogenetic analysis of the gene sequences showed its close relatedness with Sinorhizobium fredii. LC(50) value of arsenate for the bacteria as determined by flow cytometry was found to be 2.8 mM and arsenic uptake was measured by atomic absorption spectrometry as 0.048 mg g(-1) biomass. The high amount of arsenic was toxic to the cell, which changed the morphology of the bacteria to an elongated shape. Presence of a transcriptional regulatory gene (ArsR) of the ars genetic system was confirmed by amplification and sequencing. The symbiotic property of the isolate was also confirmed by amplification and sequencing of the NodC gene. These results indicate that the isolated Rhizobium bacteria may exert dual roles in the environment, arsenic bioremediation from the soil as well as increase of soil fertility through nitrogen fixation.
Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp., is one of the most important food and forage legumes in the semi-arid tropics because of its drought tolerance and ability to grow on poor quality soils. Approximately 80% of cowpea production takes place in the dry savannahs of tropical West and Central Africa, mostly by poor subsistence farmers. Despite its economic and social importance in the developing world, cowpea remains to a large extent an underexploited crop. Among the major goals of cowpea breeding and improvement programs is the stacking of desirable agronomic traits, such as disease and pest resistance and response to abiotic stresses. Implementation of marker-assisted selection and breeding programs is severely limited by a paucity of trait-linked markers and a general lack of information on gene structure and organization. With a nuclear genome size estimated at ~620 Mb, the cowpea genome is an ideal target for reduced representation sequencing. We report here the sequencing and analysis of the gene-rich, hypomethylated portion of the cowpea genome selectively cloned by methylation filtration (MF) technology. Over 250,000 gene-space sequence reads (GSRs) with an average length of 610 bp were generated, yielding ~160 Mb of sequence information. The GSRs were assembled, annotated by BLAST homology searches of four public protein annotation databases and four plant proteomes (A. thaliana, M. truncatula, O. sativa, and P. trichocarpa), and analyzed using various domain and gene modeling tools. A total of 41,260 GSR assemblies and singletons were annotated, of which 19,786 have unique GenBank accession numbers. Within the GSR dataset, 29% of the sequences were annotated using the Arabidopsis Gene Ontology (GO) with the largest categories of assigned function being catalytic activity and metabolic processes, groups that include the majority of cellular enzymes and components of amino acid, carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. A total of 5,888 GSRs had homology to genes encoding transcription factors (TFs) and transcription associated factors (TAFs) representing about 5% of the total annotated sequences in the dataset. Sixty-two (62) of the 64 well-characterized plant transcription factor (TF) gene families are represented in the cowpea GSRs, and these families are of similar size and phylogenetic organization to those characterized in other plants. The cowpea GSRs also provides a rich source of genes involved in photoperiodic control, symbiosis, and defense-related responses. Comparisons to available databases revealed that about 74% of cowpea ESTs and 70% of all legume ESTs were represented in the GSR dataset. As approximately 12% of all GSRs contain an identifiable simple-sequence repeat, the dataset is a powerful resource for the design of microsatellite markers. The availability of extensive publicly available genomic data for cowpea, a non-model legume with significant importance in the developing world, represents a significant step forward in legume research. Not only does the gene space sequence enable the detailed analysis of gene structure, gene family organization and phylogenetic relationships within cowpea, but it also facilitates the characterization of syntenic relationships with other cultivated and model legumes, and will contribute to determining patterns of chromosomal evolution in the Leguminosae. The micro and macrosyntenic relationships detected between cowpea and other cultivated and model legumes should simplify the identification of informative markers for marker-assisted trait selection and map-based gene isolation necessary for cowpea improvement.
Prior in vitro studies suggested that different types of hematopoietic stem cells may differentiate into cardiomyocytes. The present work examined whether human CD34(+) cells from the human umbilical cord blood (hUCB), cocultured with neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes, acquire the functional properties of myocardial cells and express human cardiac genes. hUCB CD34(+) cells were cocultured onto cardiomyocytes following an infection with a lentivirus-encoding enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). After 7 days, mononucleated EGFP(+) cells were tested for their electrophysiological features by patch clamp and for cytosolic [Ca(2+)] ([Ca(2+)](i)) homeostasis by [Ca(2+)](i) imaging of X-rhod1-loaded cells. Human Nkx2.5 and GATA-4 expression was examined in cocultured cell populations by real-time RT-PCR. EGFP(+) cells were connected to surrounding cells by gap junctions, acquired electrophysiological properties similar to those of cardiomyocytes, and showed action potential-associated [Ca(2+)](i) transients. These cells also exhibited spontaneous sarcoplasmic reticulum [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations and the associated membrane potential depolarization. However, RT-PCR of both cell populations showed no upregulation of human-specific cardiac genes. In conclusion, under our experimental conditions, hUCB CD34(+) cells cocultured with murine cardiomyocytes formed cells that exhibited excitation-contraction coupling features similar to those of cardiomyocytes. However, the expression of human-specific cardiac genes was undetectable by RT-PCR.
During cardiac development, the epicardium is the source of multipotent mesenchymal cells, which give rise to endothelial and smooth muscle cells in coronary vessels and also, possibly, to cardiomyocytes. The aim of the present study was to determine whether stem cells are retained in the adult human and murine epicardium and to investigate the regenerative potential of these cells following acute myocardial infarction. We show that c-kit(+) and CD34(+) cells can indeed be detected in human fetal and adult epicardium and that they represent 2 distinct populations. Both subsets of cells were negative for CD45, a cell surface marker that identifies the hematopoietic cell lineage. Immunofluorescence revealed that freshly isolated c-kit(+) and CD34(+) cells expressed early and late cardiac transcription factors and could acquire an endothelial phenotype in vitro. In the murine model of myocardial infarction, there was an increase in the absolute number and proliferation of epicardial c-kit(+) cells 3 days after coronary ligation; at this time point, epicardial c-kit(+) cells were identified in the subepicardial space and expressed GATA4. Furthermore, 1 week after myocardial infarction, cells coexpressing c-kit(+), together with endothelial or smooth muscle cell markers, were identified in the wall of subepicardial blood vessels. In summary, the postnatal epicardium contains a cell population with stem cell characteristics that retains the ability to give rise to myocardial precursors and vascular cells. These cells may play a role in the regenerative response to cardiac damage.
Phlox paniculata L., a perennial plant from the family Polemoniaceae, is cultivated as an ornamental in gardens and for cut-flower production. In spring 2003, two types of symptoms were observed in P. paniculata plants grown for cut flowers on a farm in the Var department, France. Some plants showed a mild leaf mosaic while others showed leaf browning and delayed growth. In plants showing mild mosaic, Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) was detected on the basis of the symptoms exhibited by a range of inoculated plants, the observation of isometric particles (approximately 30 nm) with the electron microscope in crude sap preparations from the infected plants, and the positive reaction in double-antibody sandwich (DAS)-ELISA to polyclonal antibodies raised against CMV (1). In double-immunodiffusion analysis, the five tested isolates were shown to belong to group II of CMV strains. To determine if CMV was responsible for the symptoms observed, one isolate was multiplied in Nicotiana tabacum cv. Xanthi-nc plants after isolation from local lesions on Vigna unguiculata and mechanically inoculated to 12 1-year-old P. paniculata plants. At 3 months post inoculation (mpi), all plants showed mild mosaic and CMV was detected by DAS-ELISA. In sap preparations from P. paniculata plants showing leaf browning symptoms, rod-shaped particles with two distinct sizes of 190 to 210 and 70 to 90 nm long, typical of those associated with tobraviruses, were revealed using electron microscopy. Local lesions typical of Tobacco rattle virus (TRV) were observed after inoculation of N. tabacum cv. Xanthi-nc, Chenopodium amaranticolor, and C. quinoa. Total nucleic acid preparations were prepared from symptomatic plants, and amplicons of the expected size (463 bp) were generated by reverse-transcription (RT)-PCR using primers specific to TRV RNA 1 (4). The nucleotide sequence of one amplicon was 93.6% identical to the sequence of a reference TRV isolate (GenBank Accession No. AJ586803). Twelve 1-year-old P. paniculata plants were mechanically inoculated with an extract of infected tissues from one symptomatic P. paniculata plant. TRV was detected 2 to 6 mpi in apical leaves of all inoculated plants by RT-PCR, although the plants did not express symptoms. Since no other pathogens were detected in the source plants, it is plausible that the lack of symptoms in back-inoculated plants is either due to a long incubation period or an interaction with particular environmental factors such as cold conditions. The survey of approximately 200 plants revealed that approximately 7, 10, and 1% were infected by TRV, CMV, or by both viruses, respectively. CMV and TRV were previously detected in P. paniculata in Latvian SSR and in Lithuania (2,3). These results show that sanitary selection of P. paniculata prior to vegetative propagation should include a screening for TRV and CMV infections. References: (1) J.-C. Devergne et al. Ann. Phytopathol. 10:233, 1978. (2) Y. Ignab and A. Putnaergle. Tr. Latv. S.-Kh. Akad. 118:27, 1977. (3) M. Navalinskiene and M. Samuitiene. Biologija 1:52, 1996. (4) D. J. Robinson. J. Virol. Methods 40:57, 1992.
Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna (MYMV-Vig) is a bipartite geminivirus that causes a severe yellow mosaic disease in blackgram. An assay was developed to study MYMV-Vig replication by agroinoculation of tobacco leaf discs with partial dimers of the virus. This assay, in a non-host model plant, was used to evaluate pathogen-derived resistance contributed by MYMV-Vig genes in transgenic plants. Viral DNA accumulation was optimum in tobacco leaf discs cultured for 10 days after infection with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain Ach5 containing partial dimers of both DNA A and DNA B of MYMV-Vig. Transgenic tobacco plants with MYMV-Vig genes for coat protein (CP), replication-associated protein (Rep)-sense, Rep-antisense, truncated Rep (T-Rep), nuclear shuttle protein (NSP) and movement protein (MP) were generated. Leaf discs from transgenic tobacco plants, harbouring MYMV-Vig genes, were agroinoculated with partial dimers of MYMV-Vig and analyzed for viral DNA accumulation. The leaf discs from transgenic tobacco plants harbouring CP and MP genes supported the accumulation of higher levels of MYMV-Vig DNA. However, MYMV-Vig accumulation was inhibited in one transgenic plant harbouring the Rep-sense gene and in two plants harbouring the T-Rep gene. Northern analysis of these plants revealed a good correlation between expression of Rep or T-Rep genes and inhibition of MYMV-Vig accumulation.
Flavonoids secreted by host plants activate, in conjunction with the transcriptional activator NodD, nod gene expression of rhizobia resulting in the synthesis of Nod factors, which trigger nodule organogenesis. Interestingly, addition of inducing flavonoids also stimulates the production of the phytohormone indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) in several rhizobia. Here, the molecular basis of IAA synthesis in Rhizobium sp. NGR234 was investigated. Mass spectrometric analysis of culture supernatants indicated that NGR234 is capable of synthesizing IAA via three different pathways. The production of IAA is increased strongly by exposure of NGR234 to daidzein in a NodD1-, NodD2-, and SyrM2-dependent manner. This suggests that the y4wEFG locus that is downstream of nod-box NB15 encodes proteins involved in IAA synthesis. Knockout mutations in y4wE and y4wF abolished flavonoid-inducible IAA synthesis and a functional y4wF was required for constitutive IAA production. The promoter activity of NB15 and IAA production both were enhanced by introduction of a multicopy plasmid carrying nodD2 into NGR234. Surprisingly, the y4wE mutant still nodulated Vigna unguiculata and Tephrosia vogelii, although the nodules contained less IAA and IAA conjugates than those formed by the wild-type bacterium.
We have investigated in Sinorhizobium fredii HH103-1 (=HH103 Str(r)) the influence of the nolR gene on the production of three different bacterial symbiotic signals: Nod factors, signal responsive (SR) proteins, and exopolysaccharide (EPS). The presence of multiple copies of nolR (in plasmid pMUS675) repressed the transcription of all the flavonoid-inducible genes analyzed: nodA, nodD1, nolO, nolX, noeL, rhcJ, hesB, and y4pF. Inactivation of nolR (mutant SVQ517) or its overexpression (presence of pMUS675) altered the amount of Nod factors detected. Mutant SVQ517 produced Nod factors carrying N-methyl residues at the nonreducing N-acetyl-glucosamine, which never have been detected in S. fredii HH103. Plasmid pMUS675 increased the amounts of EPS produced by HH103-1 and SVQ517. The flavonoid genistein repressed EPS production of HH103-1 and SVQ517 but the presence of pMUS675 reduced this repression. The presence of plasmid pMUS675 clearly decreased the secretion of SR proteins. Inactivation, or overexpression, of nolR decreased the capacity of HH103 to nodulate Glycine max. However, HH103-1 and SVQ517 carrying plasmid pMUS675 showed enhanced nodulation capacity with Vigna unguiculata. The nolR gene was positively identified in all S. fredii strains investigated, S. xinjiangense CCBAU110, and S. saheli USDA4102. Apparently, S. teranga USDA4101 does not contain this gene.
ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3 (EIN3) is a transcription factor involved in the ethylene signal transduction pathway in Arabidopsis. Two full-length cDNA clones, pVR-EIL1 and pVR-EIL2, encoding EIN3-LIKE proteins were isolated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and by screening the cDNA library of mung bean (Vigna radiata) hypocotyls. VR-EIL1 and VR-EIL2 share 70% identity and display varying degrees of sequence conservation (39%-65%) with previously isolated EIN3 homologs from Arabidopsis, tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) plants. Gel retardation assay revealed that both VR-EILs were able to interact specifically with optimal binding sequence-1, the recently identified optimal binding sequence for tobacco TEIL, with the binding of VR-EIL2 being more efficient than that of VR-EIL1. Transient expression analysis using a VR-EIL::smGFP fusion gene in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells indicated that the VR-EIL proteins were effectively targeted to the nucleus. The fusion protein of VR-EIL2 with GAL4 DNA-binding domain strongly activated transcription of a reporter gene in yeast cells, and an essential domain for transcription-stimulating activity was localized to the amino-terminal acidic region that consists of 50 amino acid residues. In contrast with what has been previously found in EIN3- and TEIL-overexpressing Arabidopsis plants, transgenic tobacco seedlings expressing the VR-EIL genes under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter did not exhibit a constitutive triple response. Instead, they displayed a markedly enhanced proliferation of root hairs, one of the typical ethylene response phenotypes, and increased sensitivity to exogenous ethylene. In addition, the pathogenesis-related (PR) genes encoding beta-1,3-glucanase, osmotin, and PR1 were constitutively expressed in 35S::VR-EIL lines without added ethylene, and were hyperinduced in response to ethylene treatment. These results indicate that VR-EILs are functional in tobacco cells, thereby effectively transactivating the GCC-box-containing PR genes and enhancing sensitivity to ethylene. The possible physiological role of VR-EILs is discussed in the light of the suggestion that they are active components of the ethylene-signaling pathway and their heterologous expressions constitutively turn on a subset of ethylene responses in tobacco plants.
Seven legume extracts containing phytoestrogens were analyzed for estrogenic activity. Methanol extracts were prepared from soybean (Glycine max L.), green bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.), alfalfa sprout (Medicago sativa L.), mung bean sprout (Vigna radiata L.), kudzu root (Pueraria lobata L.), and red clover blossom and red clover sprout (Trifolium pratense L.). Extracts of kudzu root and red clover blossom showed significant competitive binding to estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta). Estrogenic activity was determined using an estrogen-dependent MCF-7 breast cancer cell proliferation assay. Kudzu root, red clover blossom and sprout, mung bean sprout, and alfalfa sprout extracts displayed increased cell proliferation above levels observed with estradiol. The pure estrogen antagonist, ICI 182,780, suppressed cell proliferation induced by the extracts, suggesting an ER-related signaling pathway was involved. The ER subtype-selective activities of legume extracts were examined using transiently transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK 293) cells. All seven of the extracts exhibited preferential agonist activity toward ERbeta. Using HPLC to collect fractions and MCF-7 cell proliferation, the active components in kudzu root extract were determined to be the isoflavones puerarin, daidzin, genistin, daidzein, and genistein. These results show that several legumes are a source of phytoestrogens with high levels of estrogenic activity.
The ornithine transaminase (otaA) gene of Aspergillus nidulans has been cloned by transformation of the A. nidulans pro-ota- mutant strain with a cosmid gene library. The otaA gene contains two introns and potentially codes for a 453-aa-long protein. The deduced amino-acid sequence is homologous to known ornithine transaminases from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Plasmodium falciparum, Vigna aconitifolia, rat, mouse and man, particularly in the pyridoxal phosphate-binding domain. The expression of the otaA gene is specifically induced by arginine, and is also under the control of nitrogen-metabolite and carbon-catabolite repression. Regulation of the gene occurs at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. The promoter region of otaA contains putative AREA and CREA binding-sites. Fusion proteins containing AREA or CREA DNA-binding domains bind some of these sites. CREA binding-sites correspond very well to the CREA-binding consensus sequence which is SYGGRG. AREA binding-sites are composed of GATT sequences which are not typical binding sites for the GATA - binding family of transcription factors.
Transcriptional regulators of the lysR family largely control the expression of bacterial symbiotic genes. Rhizobium sp. NGR234 contains at least four members of this family: two resemble nodD, while two others are more closely related to syrM. Part of the extremely broad host range of NGR234 can be attributed to nodD1, although the second gene shares a high degree of DNA sequence homology with nodD2 of R. fredii USDA191. A nodD2 mutant of NGR234 was constructed by insertional mutagenesis. This mutant (NGR omega nodD2) was deficient in nitrogen fixation on Vigna unguiculata and induced pseudonodules on Tephrosia vogelii. Several other host plants were tested, but no correlation could be drawn between the phenotype and nodule morphology. Moreover, nodD2 has a negative effect on the production of Nod factors: mutation of this gene results in a fivefold increase in Nod factor production. Surprisingly, while the structure of Nod factors from free-living cultures of NGR omega nodD2 remained unchanged, those from V. unguiculata nodules induced by the same strain are non-fucosylated and have a lower degree of oligomerization. In other words, developmental regulation of Nod factor production is also abolished in this mutant. Competitive RNA hybridizations, gene fusions and mobility shift assays confirmed that nodD2 downregulates expression of the nodABC operon.
Three cDNAs (ext3, ext127, and ext26), originally isolated by differential screening from a root-hair cDNA library of Vigna unguiculata, were found to encode extensin-like cell wall proteins. Transcripts homologous to these cDNAs were only detected in root hairs where mRNA levels decreased 1 day after inoculation with rhizobia. This coincided with the onset of root-hair deformation, the first morphological step in the Rhizobium-legume interaction. Decreases in transcript levels following inoculation with wild-type Rhizobium sp. NGR234 were more pronounced than with NGR delta nodABC, a mutant deficient in Nod-factor production. Inoculation with a rhizobial strain carrying a mutation in a gene encoding a transcriptional activator for nod genes (NGR delta nodD1) did not repress mRNA levels, indicating that a second nodulation signal may be present that is nodD dependent. Application of purified NodNGR factors only affected transcript levels of ext3. The genomic locus of the gene homologous to ext26 (Ext26G) was cloned. In the 5' flanking region, several potential TATA boxes and CAP signals were identified. Part of the promoter region shares homology with the Pisum sativum seed lectin promoter and the Nicotiana tabacum nitrate reductase promoter region. Nonetheless, the function of these homologous regions in gene regulation is unknown.
The common nodulation locus and closely linked nodulation genes of Bradyrhizobium (Arachis) sp. strain NC92 have been isolated on an 11.0-kb EcoRI restriction fragment. The nucleotide sequence of a 7.0-kb EcoRV-EcoRI subclone was determined and found to contain open reading frames (ORFs) homologous to the nodA, nodB, nodD1, nodD2, and nolA genes of Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Bradyrhizobium elkanii. Nodulation assays of nodD1, nodD2, or nolA deletion mutants on the host plants Macroptilium atropurpureum (siratro) and Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) indicate that nolA is required for efficient nodulation, as nolA mutants exhibit a 6-day nodulation delay and reduced nodule numbers. The nolA phenotype was complemented by providing the nolA ORF in trans, indicating that the phenotype is due to the lack of the nolA ORF. nodD1 mutants displayed a 2-day nodulation delay, whereas nodD2 strains were indistinguishable from the wild type. Translational nodA-lacZ, nodD1-lacZ, nodD2-lacZ, and nolA-lacZ fusions were created. Expression of the nodA-lacZ fusion was induced by the addition of peanut, cowpea, and siratro seed exudates and by the addition of the isoflavonoids genistein and daidzein. In a nodD1 or nodD2 background, basal expression of the nodA-lacZ fusion increased two- to threefold. The level of expression of the nodD2-lacZ and nolA-lacZ fusions was low in the wild type but increased in nodD1, nodD2, and nodD1 nodD2 backgrounds independently of the addition of the inducer genistein. nolA was required for increased expression of the nodD2-lacZ fusion. These data suggest that a common factor is involved in the regulation of nodD2 and nolA, and they are also consistent with a model of nod gene expression in Bradyrhizobium (Arachis) sp. strain NC92 in which negative regulation is mediated by the products of the nodD1 and nodD2 genes.
Genetic changes in the development of endometrial carcinoma have not been characterized, and little is known of tumor or metastatic suppressor gene status in these malignancies. The current study on endometrioid carcinoma was undertaken to examine the status of two tumor suppressor genes that frequently have been found to be altered in human malignancies (the p53 gene and the retinoblastoma [Rb] gene) and to examine the status of the candidate metastatic suppressor gene, nm23-H1. The status of the p53 gene was studied by immunohistochemistry of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded biopsy samples from 72 patients with atypical endometrial hyperplasia or endometrioid carcinoma who underwent hysterectomy immediately after biopsy and from 5 patients with benign endometria. A search for loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the nm23 gene after DNA extraction from frozen tissues and hybridization with nm23-H1 cDNA specific probe was made in 10 endometrial carcinomas. Rb gene status was evaluated by image analysis quantification of immunoreactive retinoblastoma protein in frozen sections of 10 carcinomas and 2 benign endometria. p53 expression was low in all benign endometria, but high expression was found in 2 (15%) of 13 atypical hyperplasias and in 23 (39%) of 59 carcinomas. High levels of p53 expression in endometrioid carcinoma correlated with the spread of disease outside of the uterus and by logistic regression, the presence of squamous differentiation, nuclear grade, and high p53 expression in the biopsy all independently correlated with spread of disease outside of the uterus. Although 7 of the 10 carcinomas studied were informative, LOH for the nm23 gene was not seen in any, including a site of metastasis. Rb protein expression in endometrial carcinoma was similar to expression in benign endometria. Although this study found no evidence of nm23-H1 gene alteration or alterations in Rb protein levels in endometrial carcinoma, high expression of p53 protein was sporadically identified in biopsy specimens of atypical hyperplasia and frequently found in endometrioid carcinomas. Determination of p53 expression in combination with the presence or absence of squamous differentiation and nuclear grade in biopsy material may help predict spread of endometrioid carcinoma outside the uterus and facilitate therapeutic planning before hysterectomy.
We report the nucleotide sequence of the rpoN gene from broad-host-range Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 and analyze the encoded RPON protein, a sigma factor. Comparative analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence of RPON from NGR234 with sequences from other gram-negative bacteria identified a perfectly conserved RPON box unique to RPON sigma factors. Symbiotic regulatory phenotypes were defined for a site-directed internal deletion within the coding sequence of the rpoN gene of Rhizobium strain NGR234: they included quantitative nodulation kinetics on Vigna unguiculata and microscopic analysis of the Fix- determinate nodules of V. unguiculata and Macroptilium atropurpureum. RPON was a primary coregulator of nodulation and was implicated in establishment or maintenance of the plant-synthesized peribacteroid membrane. Phenotypes of rpoN in Rhizobium strain NGR234 could be grouped as symbiosis related, rather than simply pleiotropically physiological as in free-living bacteria such as Klebsiella pneumoniae and Pseudomonas putida.
Bradyrhizobium japonicum is the root nodule endosymbiont of soybean (Glycine max), mung bean (Vigna radiata), cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), and Siratro (Macroptilium atropurpureum). We report the characteristics of a nodulation-gene region of B. japonicum that contributes only marginally to the bacterium's ability to nodulate soybean but is essential for the nodulation of the three alternative hosts. This DNA region consists of two open reading frames designated nodV and nodW. The predicted amino acid sequences of the NodV and NodW proteins suggest that they are members of the family of two-component regulatory systems, which supports the hypothesis that NodV responds to an environmental stimulus and, after signal transduction, NodW may be required to positively regulate the transcription of one or several unknown genes involved in the nodulation process. It seems likely that all host plants produce the necessary signal, whereas host specificity may be brought about by the product(s) of the gene(s) activated by NodW.
The TCP gene family encodes plant-specific transcription factors that regulate plant growth, development, and stress responses. Although this gene family has been widely studied in various species, its function in mung bean (
Mungbean (Vigna radiata L.) is one of the most important yet genomically under-researched leguminous food crop. Its productivity is low due to the complex nature of yield realization, which is regulated by various yield-contributing traits. Thus, understanding the genetic basis of these traits is essential for developing an ideal genotype with high yield. In this study, mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) was conducted for six yield-contributing traits using a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population (166 number), developed by crossing two contrasting genotypes (Pusa Baisakhi × PMR-1). The genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) of RILs was used to construct the genetic map using 1347 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs). The QTL mapping using multiple interval mapping (MIM) and composite interval mapping (CIM) has identified 17 yield contributing QTLs of which, 4 for number of leaves/plant (NL), 3 for plant height (PH), 2 for SPAD value, 3 for 100 seed weight (SW), 2 for number of pods/plant (NP), and 3 for total grain yield (GY). The Logarithm of Odds (LOD) scores for these QTLs ranged from ~ 3-9, while phenotypic variance explained (PVE) ranged from ~ 9-24%. Several candidate genes with mRNA expression and protein-altering mutations were identified as having a direct role in key processes like growth (LOC106756212, LOC106776425, LOC106777991), flowering (LOC106777903, LOC106768860), metabolism (LOC106757749, LOC106758189), etc. The candidate genes are validated through digital gene expression analysis. In addition, Insertion-Deletion (InDel) markers were also developed for the identified QTLs which hold broad applications for the improvement of yield-related traits in mungbean.
Mungbean is one of the most economically important grain legume crops in Asia. Functional genomics studies in mungbean are necessary to understand the molecular mechanisms behind agronomic traits, to advance the crop improvement. However, this progress is significantly impeded by the absence of effective and extensive genetic analysis tools. Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated hairy root transformation has become a powerful tool for studying gene function and an efficient alternative for investigating root-specific interactions and processes in different species, due to its quick and simple methodology. Agrobacterium-mediated plant transformation, however, is known to be difficult in legumes, especially in mungbean. In this report, we developed an Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated mungbean transformation system using both in-vitro and ex-vitro approaches, with RUBY employed as a reporter gene. We optimized various parameters, including mungbean genotypes, explant age, optical density of the bacterial culture, co-cultivation medium, and acetosyringone concentration. Our findings indicated that in-vitro transformation was more efficient than ex-vitro in terms of hairy root induction percentage and the proportion of transformed hairy roots expressing the RUBY reporter gene. However, the ex-vitro transformation technique was faster and less complex than the in-vitro method. The highest transformation efficiency for RUBY expression was achieved using 5-day-old cotyledonary nodal explants of cv. K-851, inoculated for 30 min with A4 Agrobacterium cells resuspended in full-strength MS medium at an OD₆₀₀ of 0.5 and supplemented with 100 µM acetosyringone. A total of 60 composite plants were generated and evaluated through PCR, resulting in a transformation efficiency of 6.13%. These optimized parameters also led to the highest percentage of RUBY expression using the two-step ex-vitro hairy root transformation method. We have developed a simple, rapid, low-cost, and labor-efficient Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated mungbean transformation protocol using both in-vitro and ex-vitro approaches, with RUBY as a reporter gene. This method enables the generation of composite mungbean plants that are easier to handle, exhibit higher transformation efficiency, and can be effectively used for root specific functional genomics studies. We expect this technology to be widely adopted for investigating root-related processes in mungbean and other plant species.
Cadmium is one of the most toxic heavy metal pollutants in the world, seriously affecting crop growth and human health. 2,4-Epibrassinolide (BRs) has been proven to promote plant growth, enhance abiotic stress resistance and improve crop quality and yield. In this study, adzuki bean (V. angularis) cultivar 'Zhen Zhuhong' was grown hydroponically in 1/2 Hoagland nutrient solution with 0, 1, and 2 mg L
The bean flower thrips, Megalurothrips usitatus (Bagnall), has caused significant damage to leguminous crops in the Asian tropics and established populations in North America. Ineffective pest control has been reported in multiple regions, raising concerns about food safety risks due to improper insecticide use. To evaluate insecticide susceptibility and the role of detoxification enzyme involvement, resistance monitoring and enzyme activity assays were conducted. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) techniques validated key gene functions. Results showed that the XW population was resistant to five insecticides, with resistance ratios ranging from 7.17 to 42.90 compared to the reference population. The NJ and YZ populations showed resistance to two and one insecticide, respectively, while the HP population was most susceptible. Elevated cytochrome P450s (CYP450), UDP-glycosyltransferases, and acetylcholinesterases activities were observed in the YZ population. Three CYP450 genes positively correlated with CYP450 activity. Carboxylesterases (CarE) activity was the highest in the XW population, with MusiPT_006325 positively correlated and MusiPT_006095/MusiPT_003750 negatively correlated with CarE activity. Glutathione-S-transferase activity was the highest in the HP population. WGCNA revealed positive correlations between MEblue, MEturquoise, and MEbrown modules and acetamiprid/ novaluron median lethal concentration (LC
The developmental control of plant reproduction is often related to the activity of methylation-dependent pathways that play an essential role in genome integrity and the transgenerational establishment of epigenetic marks. Cytogenetic analysis and in situ patterns of protein expression are crucial to accurately establish the function and mode of action of genes involved in the epigenetic control of female meiosis and gametogenesis. Here, we describe a whole mount propidium iodine staining and immunolocalization procedures to study the role of proteins involved in RNA-directed DNA methylation during the development of ovules in Vigna unguiculata (cowpea). The procedure can be easily adapted to develop ovules of other legumes such as common bean and scarlet runner bean.
Subtilisin-like serine proteases (SBTs) are serine proteolytic enzymes that play various roles in plant growth, function and stress responses. Vigna glabrescens, a wild relative of mungbean known to be a potential donor of photo- and thermoperiod insensitivity, was characterized for thermotolerance through reproductive biology and gene expression profiling. Whole-genome sequencing of this species has not yet been performed; hence, genome-wide analysis of this species has not been explored. In the present study, a systematic analysis of SBT-encoding genes in the V. radiata (Vradi_SBT) genome was conducted, with a focus on their response during flower development under different temperature regimes, such as optimum temperature, heat and cold stresses, in Vigna radiata and a wild relative, Vigna glabrescens. Thirty-eight Vradi_SBT genes were identified in the V. radiata genome and were further grouped into five distinct subgroups. The key domain of the SBT peptidase, "peptidase_S8_53," was found in all 38 Vradi_SBT proteins, while 28 of them contained the "peptidase_S8" domain. Additionally, 30 of these proteins contained a maximum of 10 motifs. A total of 22 orthologous genes were identified in Arabidopsis thaliana, whereas paralogous gene pairs were detected as tandemly duplicated genes with V. unguiculata. Cis-acting element analysis revealed that these genes presented more stress-responsive promoter sequences than the other promoters. Furthermore, Vradi_SBT-1.9 was found significantly upregulated under both high- and low-temperature stresses. This study provides insights into SBT-encoding genes and their possible role in flower development and thermotolerance in Vigna species.
Mungbean ( Here, we screened six genotypes with consistently high and low content of major secondary metabolites (gallic acid, chlorogenic acid, neo-chlorogenic acid, genistin, formononetin, catechin, syringic acid, and resveratrol) across environmental replicates. Transcriptome data obtained from the individual genotypes were pooled into two groups: high and low levels of secondary metabolites. Of the 200 differentially expressed genes identified using stringent criteria, 23 were annotated in the secondary metabolite pathway. By combining the results of the secondary metabolite and transcriptome data, we identified six key genes encoding four enzymes ( These results provide information on the common genetic factors involved in the production of secondary metabolites, which can improve the nutritional value of mungbeans and contribute to the development of elite mungbean cultivars.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) rust, caused by the fungus Uromyces vignae, is an important disease affecting adzuki bean yield and quality. Previously, several NAC transcription factors (TFs) were induced by rust infection in a resistant adzuki bean variety, suggesting that NAC TF members may play important roles in rust resistance. To further explore the functions of NAC TFs in rust resistance and to provide a reference for resistant varietal breeding, 101 NAC TFs were identified from the adzuki bean genome. The synteny analysis revealed 25 pairs of VaNACs in the genome, which exhibited whole-genome/segmental duplication. Based on the phylogenetic relationships and conserved motif characteristics, the NAC TFs of V. angularis can be divided into 16 subfamilies. Previous transcriptome data showed that nine VaNACs are significantly induced by rust infection. Here, a cis-acting element analysis of these nine genes revealed that most contain hormone responsive elements, such as abscisic acid and methyl jasmonate (MeJA). The expression levels of these nine VaNACs were dynamically regulated in response to exogenous MeJA treatment, as revealed by quantitative real-time PCR analysis. Among them, seven VaNACs exhibited significantly upregulated expression, peaking at 12 h post treatment (hpt) and remaining significantly higher than that of the untreated control group for 48 hpt. These results suggest that these VaNACs are responsive to MeJA signaling and may play roles in the early and sustained transcriptional regulation of stress-related pathways. The exogenous MeJA decreased rust severity on adzuki bean leaves by 45.68%. Additionally, the expression levels of these nine genes in adzuki bean leaves in response to rust infection after pretreatment with MeJA were investigated. The expression of VaNAC002 rapidly peaked at 24 h post inoculation (hpi) and remained significantly higher than the control from 120 to 192 hpi. Subsequently, transient overexpression of VaNAC002 significantly enhanced the resistance of tobacco to Botrytis cinerea, indicating that VaNAC002 positively regulates plant disease resistance. These findings suggest that adzuki bean NAC family members may play important roles in disease resistance through JA signaling, with VaNAC002 having a positive regulatory role in plant immunity.
Soil salinity is one of the most severe impacts of climate change, negatively affecting plant growth and development. Seed germination and seedling emergence are among the most critical stages susceptible to salt stress, making it important to explore them to identify the most resilient accessions for crop yield improvement. Cowpea (
The transition from vegetative to floral development is a critical process regulated by a variety of complex internal and external factors. This study aims to characterize the Flowering Locus D (FLD) gene in relation to the floral induction pathway and examine its expression profiles under different photoperiodic conditions in Indian bean (Lablab purpureus (L.) Sweet). The LprFLD gene was PCR-amplified and sequenced using gene-specific primers for both photosensitive (GNIB-22, GP-189) and photoinsensitive (GNIB-21) varieties of Indian bean. Exon prediction, phylogenetic analysis, and in silico domain prediction were performed, followed by gene expression analysis using qRT-PCR for contrasting phenotypes. The complete LprFLD gene sequence was characterized, containing five exons and showing significant similarity to GmFLD and VuFLD. Phylogenetic analysis of FLD homologs from 27 taxa revealed the closest evolutionary relationships among members of the Phaseoleae tribe, including Lablab purpureus, Vignaumbellata, Vigna angularis, Vignaradiata, Vigna unguiculata, Phaseolus vulgaris, Glycine max, Glycinesoja, and Cajanus cajan. In silico domain prediction identified two conserved domains, SWIRM and amino oxidase, in the FLD homologs of Indian bean, soybean, cowpea, Arabidopsis and rice. Gene expression analysis showed that the relative expression of LprFLD in trifoliate leaves corresponded with flowering in both photosensitive and photoinsensitive genotypes under long-day conditions. Overall, the expression level of LprFLD was lower in trifoliate leaves and shoot tips. This is the first report on the characterization of the LprFLD locus in Indian bean. Phylogenetic analysis confirmed its close evolutionary relationship with other Phaseoleae species. qRT-PCR results suggest that the elevated expression of LprFLD in trifoliate leaves coincides with flowering time in both photosensitive and photoinsensitive genotypes under long-day conditions, indicating that other loci may also regulate floral transition under varying photoperiods in Indian bean.
n-Propyl gallate (PG) is a phenolic compound that influences enzymatic processes, mostly involving AOX, PTOX, LOX, POD, and PPO. Here, analyses of different PG concentrations (1, 2.5, and 5 mM) during cowpea seed germination at 16, 32, and 48h showed that 2.5 mM PG partially inhibited seed germination at 16 and/or 32h, but by 48h the germination re-established. Thus, this PG concentration was chosen to study the molecular and biochemical mechanisms linked to the PG inhibitory effects and germination recovery. PG inhibition was related to lower H
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is an important protein source in Sub-Saharan Africa. Optimizing resilience and productivity through genetic engineering in cowpea has been slow due in part to a lack of defined species-specific regulatory elements and difficulty testing gene function within the native system. In many plant species, Agrobacterium-mediated transient gene expression is widely used to validate constructs before investing in transgenic lines, but its implementation in legumes has been challenging. In this study, we optimized an in planta agroinfiltration assay in trifoliate cowpea leaves using a betalain reporter. To demonstrate the "intact plant" aspect of this system, we used this assay to characterize drought-inducible promoters by challenging cowpea plants with drought stress. Subsequently, to identify and broaden the pool of native promoters known in cowpea, we developed a user-friendly web application, CowPEAsy, allowing users to interrogate gene expression from our canopy-level, developmental-series RNA-Seq data set. Finally, using CowPEAsy, we identified six promoters that showed constitutive expression across all conditions and verified these promoters with our transient system. This work provides an in vivo platform for preliminary validation of regulatory elements in cowpea and other legumes and enhances current genetic resources by identifying a suite of physiologically relevant promoters of varying strengths.
The extent of viral infection significantly shapes disease susceptibility. Yellow mosaic disease induced by the begomovirus pathogen mungbean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV), revealed varying infection levels in both compatible and incompatible interactions across three distinct The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-025-01547-9.
Long-term cadmium (Cd) exposure inhibits plant growth and development, reduces crop yield and quality, and threatens food security. Exploring the Cd tolerance mechanisms and safe production of crops in Cd-contaminated environment has become a worldwide concern. In this study, mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) cultivar Sulu (SL) and its three mutant lines (20#, 09#, and 06#) were used to compare the difference in Cd absorption, accumulation, and tolerance through pot and field experiments. 20#, 09#, and 06# are Cd-tolerant germplasms of mung bean but exist in different Cd tolerance mechanisms, 20# exhibited the lowest Cd absorption capacity, 09# possessed lower Cd translocation capacity, while 06# accumulated more Cd in protoplasts. Mung bean germplasms with higher Cd tolerance generally showed lower absorption capacity and intracellular accumulation of Cd. Besides, Cd accumulation in mung bean seeds is mainly depended on the absorption and translocation of Cd in roots and the Cd concentration in leaves, exogenous Mn supply inhibited the Cd
Vigna marina (Barm.) Merr. is adapted to tropical marine beaches and has an outstanding tolerance to salt stress. Given there are growing demands for cultivating crops in saline soil or with saline water, it is important to understand how halophytic species are adapted to the saline environments. Here we revealed by positron-emitting tracer imaging system (PETIS) that V. marina actively excretes sodium from the root during the light period but not the dark period. The following whole genome sequencing accompanied with forward genetic study identified a QTL region harbouring SOS1, encoding plasma membrane Na
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a heterogeneous disease, with MM patients experiencing different clinical outcomes depending on the disease's biological features. Novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of MM have led to the introduction of sophisticated drugs, which dramatically improved patient treatment and survival. To date, young patients with newly diagnosed MM could experience a median overall survival (OS) of 10 years. Nevertheless, a small proportion of patients still undergoes early disease progression and death. Indeed, cases defined as ultra-high-risk MM (uHRMM) and high-risk MM (HRMM) are destined for a worse outcome, with an OS of 2-3 and 3-5 years, respectively. In this regard, current risk stratification systems failed to identify this subset of patients better. The application of existing risk models has led to the identification of extremely heterogeneous categories of patients, and they have not taken into account biological and clinical differences. The concept of HRMM was initially formalised in 2015. Since then, a great effort has been made to identify those parameters whose presence pone MM patients at higher risk of developing an early relapse. The simultaneous presence of 2 or more unfavourable cytogenetic abnormalities, the identification of an extramedullary disease or the detection of circulating plasma cells, as well as high-risk gene expression profiling (GEP) signature, have shown to be well related to a worse outcome and are going to be incorporated into new prognostic systems. The introduction of the Individualised Risk Model for Multiple Myeloma (IRMMa) marks a significant advancement in the management of HRMM by integrating genomic and clinical data to tailor treatment strategies. This model demonstrates improved prognostic accuracy compared to traditional staging systems and emphasises the importance of personalised treatment approaches. The implementation of these advanced tools is essential for enhancing precision medicine in MM and improving outcomes for patients in high-risk categories.
Polyphenols represent a new strategy of dietary intervention for heat stress regulation. The metabolic and genetic effects of three heat stress-regulated mung bean polyphenols on mouse small intestinal epithelial Mode-k cells were investigated by metabolomics-transcriptomics correlation analysis at different heat stress levels. Lipid metabolism, energy metabolism, and nervous system pathways were the key metabolic regulatory pathways. Under the heat stresses of 39 °C, 41 °C, and 43 °C, the key pathways regulated by mung bean polyphenols on intestinal epithelial Mode-k cells were choline metabolism, pyrimidine metabolism, and the retrograde endorphin signalling pathway in cancer, respectively. FoxO, Rap1, and PI3K-Akt signalling pathways were the key environmental regulatory signalling pathways. Mung bean polyphenols can alleviate heat stress-induced cells at 39 °C by inhibiting cell apoptosis and promoting lipid and amino acid accumulation. Mung bean polyphenols can alleviate the threat of cell death caused by heat stress at 41 °C by regulating heat shock proteins, inhibiting mitochondrial function and some nerve disease-related genes. The threat of cell death by heat stress at 43 °C can be alleviated by regulating nerve-related genes. This study confirmed that mung bean polyphenols can regulate heat stress. The results provide a reference for analysing the mechanism of dietary polyphenol regulating heat stress.
Several mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) cultivars are susceptible to Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by Cercospora canescens Ellis & Martin, and it is necessary to explore resistance sources and understand resistance mechanisms. However, the CLS resistance mechanisms have not yet been explored. The response to CLS revealed significantly different disease severity scores in both mungbean genotypes. Hypersensitive response (HR) started to appear at 2 days after inoculation (DAI) in SUPER5 but was never observed in CN84-1. SUPER5 exhibited fewer and smaller lesions than CN84-1 during CLS infection, resulting in SUPER5 being resistant while CN84-1 was susceptible to CLS. In this study, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis was used to unravel the mechanisms of resistance to CLS in a resistant line (SUPER5) and a susceptible variety (CN84-1) upon CLS infection. A total of 9510 DEGs including 4615 up-regulated and 4895 down-regulated genes were revealed. Of these 3242 and 1027 genes were uniquely up-regulated only in the SUPER5 and CN84-1, respectively, while 2902 and 734 genes were down-regulated only in SUPER5 and CN84-1, respectively. The 843 DEGs were enriched in biological processes mainly associated with plant defense responses, defense response to fungus, protein phosphorylation and response to chitin in Gene Ontology (GO) terms analysis. KEGG pathway analysis showed that these genes were represented in plant-pathogen interaction, the MAPK signaling pathway, plant hormone signal transduction, and cell wall component biosynthesis in response to the CLS infection specifically in SUPER5. In addition, the qRT-PCR was used to analyze the expression pattern of 22 candidate DEGs belonging to pathogenesis related (PR) proteins, resistance (R) proteins, transcription factors, hypersensitive response (HR), and the essential genes involved in cell wall activity during CLS-infected V. radiata. It was found that the expression of these genes was consistent with the RNA-seq analysis, showing a highly significant correlation with a coefficient of 0.7163 (p < 0.01). The co-expression network illustrated the interactions among these genes, which were involved in multiple functions related to the defense response. Interestingly, the ones encoding PR-2, thaumatin, peroxidase, defensin, RPM1, pectinesterase, chalcone synthase, auxin efflux carrier, and transcription factors (Pti1, Pti5, Pti6 and WRKY40) were highly significantly up-regulated in SUPER5 but not in CN84-1 upon CLS infection, suggesting that they might be involved in the CLS resistance mechanisms. Moreover, SUPER5 was found to have higher β-1,3-glucanase and chitinase activity levels than CN84-1. Our findings contribute to an understanding of the CLS resistance mechanisms and may advocate the development of more effective disease management approaches.
Soil salinization and ground water depletion are increasingly constraining crop production. Identifying useful mechanisms of salt tolerance is an important step toward the development of salt-tolerant crops. Of particular interest are mechanisms that are present in crop wild relatives, as they may have greater stress tolerance than crop species. The coastal species Vigna marina is one of the promising plant resources for salt tolerance. Vigna luteola is another wild species with diverse habitats, including seaside and riverbank, hereafter V. luteola-beach and V. luteola-river, respectively. By comparative transcriptome and histological analyses, this study elucidated one important aspect of how V. marina achieves an extraordinary ability to suppress Na+ uptake. Under salt stress, V. marina specifically upregulated genes involved in Casparian strip formation and developed a multi-layered lignified apoplastic barrier around endodermis, whereas V. luteola-beach formed typical, band-like Casparian strips and V. luteola-river formed only spot-like Casparian strips. As such, the ability of developing apoplastic barrier strongly correlated with those of suppressing Na+ uptake. The disruption of lignified barrier led to a dramatic increase of Na+ allocation to the shoot in V. marina, which was manifested in leaf etiolation and burning. Interestingly, despite the presence of reinforced apoplastic barrier, V. marina maintained the transport of essential ions including K+, Mg2+, and Ca2+. This study shows that the multi-layered Casparian strip-like structure plays an important role in salt tolerance.
Blackgram is an important short-duration grain legume, but its yield is highly affected by various stresses. Among biotic stresses, yellow mosaic disease (YMD) is known as a devastating disease that leads to 100% yield loss under severe conditions. The cultivated lines possess resistance, but exploring more diverse sources of resistance may be useful for pyramiding to improve the durability of said resistance. Some wild
Fusarium oxysporum disrupts redox homeostasis in Vigna mungo, likely by interfering with salicylic acid signaling, which can be ameliorated by boosting PAL and its related pathways via salicylic acid pretreatment. Fusarium oxysporum, a widespread soil-borne fungus, significantly threatens global crops. This study centers on elucidating the infection strategies employed by F. oxysporum against a new and underexplored host Vigna mungo, a leguminous crop of high agronomic value, and the defense mechanisms that can be activated against the infection, aiming to uncover how these responses can be leveraged to develop potential countermeasures. Building on prior work demonstrating the in vitro antifungal efficacy of phytohormones, including salicylic acid (SA), this study further investigates SA pretreatment at 100 µM, which previously reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) and improved germination under Fusarium stress. Through a comprehensive analysis of V. mungo plants pretreated with SA and subjected to F. oxysporum infection, we observed that fungal exposure reduced growth, chlorophyll content, and levels of proteins, phenolics and flavonoids, while increasing stress markers and antioxidant activity. SA pretreatment mitigated these effects by boosting antioxidant molecules and activating the phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) pathway, thereby enhancing endogenous SA and ROS scavenging. Furthermore, qRT-PCR analysis confirmed SA-mediated upregulation of antioxidant (catalase and peroxidase), fungal stress response genes ((pathogenesis-related gene 4 (PR4) and defensin (DEF)) and SA synthesis and regulator genes (PAL and WRKY70) involved in plant systemic resistance, while LC-MS data revealed an altered metabolic profile with increased phytoalexins and antioxidants synthesis. Overall, SA pretreatment confers resistance against F. oxysporum in V. mungo by modulating endogenous SA and metabolic profile to activate key defense pathways and redox homeostasis, highlighting its potential in plant defense strategies and reinforcing our proposed model of SA action.
Cold stress affects the growth, development, and yield of asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata subsp. sesquipedalis). Mediator (MED) complex subunits regulate the cold tolerance of asparagus bean, but the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. Here, VunMED2 positively responds to cold stress of asparagus beans. Under cold acclimation and freezing treatment, the survival rate, ROS scavenging activity, and expression levels of VunMED2 were increased in VunMED2 transgenic plants. Natural variation in the promoter of VunMED2 in two different cold-tolerant asparagus beans was observed. Under cold stress, the expression of the GUS reporter gene was higher in cold-tolerant plants than in cold-sensitive plants, and the expression of the GUS reporter gene was tissue-specific. VunHY5 positively influenced the expression of VunMED2 by binding to the E-box motif, and the transcriptional activation of the promoter was stronger in the cold-tolerant variety than in cold-sensitive plants. VunHY5 overexpression improved plant freezing resistance by increasing the antioxidant capacity and expression of dehydrin genes. VunHY5 and VunMED2 play a synergistic role in binding to the G-box/ABRE motif and transcriptionally activating the expression of VunERD14. VunERD14 complemented the med2 mutant, which could positively respond to plant freezing resistance by reducing membrane lipid peroxidation and improving the antioxidant capacity. Therefore, the VunHY5-VunERD14 module and the VunHY5-VunMED2-VunERD14 positive cascade effect are involved in the cold signal transduction in asparagus bean. Our findings have implications for the breeding of asparagus bean varieties with improved cold tolerance.
Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) is a crucial mitochondrial enzyme in the electron transport chain of plants, implicated in energy production and stress responses. Despite its importance, the function of COX in leguminous plants, especially under heavy metal stress like cadmium (Cd), remains understudied. In this study, COX genes (COX s) were identified based on the genome annotation file in mung bean (Vigna radiata (Linn.) R. Wilczek), and the gene structure, physicochemical properties and systematic relationships of the relevant amino acid sequences were analyzed by using bioinformatics method. The effects of Cd on the transcription levels and activities of COX in mung bean roots, stems, and leaves were detected to understand the mechanism of COX in mung bean in response to cadmium (Cd) stress. Transcriptome sequencing revealed tissue-specific expression with roots showed the highest levels. Cd stress significantly altered the expression and activity of VrCOXs, particularly in roots and stems, with varied responses among different genes. The differential response of VrCOX s to Cd stress indicates a role in the plant stress tolerance mechanism. The study provides insights into the function of COXs in legumes and a foundation for further research into Cd tolerance mechanisms, which could be vital for enhancing legume production and ensuring food safety in contaminated environments.
Plants activate induced defenses through the recognition of molecular patterns. Like pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), herbivore-associated molecular patterns (HAMPs) can be recognized by cell surface pattern recognition receptors leading to defensive transcriptional changes in host plants. Herbivore-induced defensive outputs are regulated by the circadian clock, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. To investigate how the plant circadian clock regulates transcriptional reprogramming of a specific HAMP-induced pathway, we characterized the daytime and nighttime transcriptional response to caterpillar-derived In11 peptide, in the legume crop cowpea (
Oxidosqualene cyclases (OSCs) are important regulatory enzymes involved in cyclization reactions of 2, 3-oxidosqualene to form triterpenes and sterols. This study presents the identification and characterization of three OSC genes, a β - amyrin synthase (VuβAS), a lupeol synthase (VuLUS) and a cycloartenol synthase (VuCAS) in Vigna unguiculata, an edible leguminous plant with high nutritional and nutraceutical value. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the VuβAS, VuLUS and VuCAS were clustered within the clades of previously characterized β - amyrin synthases, lupeol synthases and cycloartenol synthases. Heterologous expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Gas Chromatography - Mass Spectrometry (GC - MS) analysis in different plant stages confirmed their specific functions. VuβAS showed higher expression in roots from early germinating seedlings to older plants (4-day to 28-day), while VuLUS expression levels were higher in the roots of older plants only (14-day to 28-day). VuCAS expression was increased in all the tissues of 4-day seedlings, with a peak in stem and leaves and a lower accumulation in radicles. These findings revealed the presence and function of OSC genes in V. unguiculata, and future research could lead to the discovery of promising biologically active compounds.
Plant protease inhibitors (PI's) inhibit the activity of gut proteases and thus provide resistance against insect attack. Previously we have published first report on cloning and characterization of a novel Bowman-Birk protease inhibitor gene (RbTI) from ricebean (Vigna umbellata). In this study, the RbTI gene was further characterized and validated as a potential candidate for transferring insect resistance in economically important crops. We have successfully generated transgenic tobacco plants expressing RbTI gene constitutively under CaMV35S promoter using Agrobacterium transformation. Genomic PCR and GUS analysis confirmed the successful integration of RbTI gene into tobacco plant genome. qRT-PCR analysis revealed highest RbTI gene expression in transformed tobacco leaves nearing maturity. Feeding of transformed tobacco leaf tissue showed prominent effect on larval mortality throughout the larval growth stages mainly during first three days of feeding. For functional analysis of RbTI gene, we estimated the inhibitory activity of protein extracts from normal and transformed tobacco plants against gut proteases of Spodoptera litura and H. armigera larval instars. Maximum inhibition of trypsin (82.42% and 73.25%) and chymotrypsin (69.50% and 60.64%) enzymes was recorded at early larval stages of both insects. The results of this study validated the future use of RbTI gene from ricebean legume as a potential candidate for transferring insect resistance in economically important crops. Insight, innovation, integration: Present study was conducted with the aim to utilize the state of art biotechnological techniques for transferring key pest resistant genes from underutilized promising crop ricebean. The tobacco plant has been utilized as modern plant for proof of concept where a protease inhibitor gene from Ricebean has been transferred to tobacco plant which induced larval mortality within first three days of feeding at all larval developmental stages. The biochemical assays on mid-gut total protein extract showed that the transgenic tobacco leaves have inhibiting effect on trypsin and chymotrypsin enzymes of insect which is otherwise required for digestion of food by them. Hence, we provide a novel gene that could be utilized for pest resistance in other crops different developmental stages.
Selenium (Se) and zinc (Zn) deficiencies have become serious global food security and public health problems. Biofortification through foliar fertilizer is a nonspecific, low-tech, and cost-effective strategy. Se and Zn have overlapping physiological roles and interacting relationships in plants. Mung bean is superior for Se enrichment and an excellent Zn carrier. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the interaction between Se and Zn in the mung bean remains unclear. Herein, Se and Zn accumulation, antioxidant activities, physiological determination, and transcriptomic analysis were performed under both Se and Zn treatments. Common essential roles of Se and Zn in mung bean were reflected by the comprehensively altered ten physiological indexes under both Se2 (24 g·ha
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L.), a widely cultivated legume, belongs to the Fabaceae family's Papilionoideae subfamily. Although Phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein (PEBP) genes have been identified in several plant species, their presence and function in mung bean remain largely unexplored. In this study, we identified seven VrPEBP genes from mung bean and classified them into four clades: FT, MFT, TFL and FT-like. Cis-regulatory element analysis revealed that VrPEBP genes may play a role in light, hormone, and stress responses. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis indicated that VrPEBPs were constitutively expressed in various tissues. However, tissue-specific expression patterns were observed among VrPEBP genes. Under short-day (SD) conditions, VrFT1 and VrMFT1 exhibited significantly higher expression levels than under long-day (LD) conditions at 8 and 4 h, respectively. Conversely, VrTFL2 and VrTFL3 showed significantly higher expression levels under LD conditions compared to SD conditions at 8 and 12 h, respectively. The varied expression patterns of these genes under different photoperiod suggest their potential involvement in the photoperiodic regulation of flowering in mung bean. Additionally, phenotypic analysis of transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing VrFT1 revealed higher expression levels under SD conditions and predicted its role in promoting flowering. These results provide valuable insights into the evolution and function of PEBP genes in mung bean and lay the foundation for further research on their regulatory mechanisms and potential applications in mung bean improvement.
Calmodulin-binding transcription activator (CAMTA) is comprised of a group of transcription factors and plays an important role in the Ca Eight paralogous VrCAMTA genes were identified and found to be distributed on five of the 11 chromosomes. The proteins possessed CG-1 DNA-binding domains with bipartite NLS signals, ankyrin domains, CaM-binding IQ motifs, and CaM-binding domain (CaMBD). The 2 kb upstream regions of VrCAMTA genes contained sequence motifs of abscisic acid-responsive elements (ABRE) and ethylene-responsive elements (ERE), and binding sites for transcription factors of the bZIP and bHLH domains. Analysis of RNA-seq data from a public repository revealed ubiquitous expression of the VrCAMTA genes, as VrCAMTA1 was expressed at the highest level in seedling leaves, whereas VrCAMTA8 was expressed at the lowest level, which agreed with the RT-qPCR analysis performed on the first true leaves. On day four after leaf emergence, all VrCAMTA genes were upregulated, with VrCAMTA1 exhibiting the highest degree of upregulation. In darkness on day 4, upregulation was not observed in most VrCAMTA genes, except VrCAMTA7, for which a low degree of upregulation was found, whereas no difference was found in VrCAMTA8 expression between light and dark conditions. Treatment with calcium ionophores enhanced VrCAMTA expression under light and/or dark conditions at different times after leaf emergence, suggesting that calcium signaling is involved in the light-induced upregulation of VrCAMTA gene expression. The expression dependence of nearly all VrCAMTA genes on light and calcium signaling suggests their possible differential but likely complementary roles during the early stages of mung bean growth and development.
In the current study, we have performed a comprehensive analysis of the Sodium Hydrogen Exchanger (NHX) gene family in Vigna mungo, and a total of 44 NHX genes were identified. A bimodal distribution based on domains, gene structure and phylogenetic analysis was evident. All intronpoor and intron-rich genes were clustered in clades I and II, respectively. Interestingly, all genes of subclade IIb were localized to vacuoles and possess only the NHX domain. The isoelectric point and trans-membrane domain analysis reflect the wide distribution of the NHX genes. Interestingly, Vm_NHX2 and Vm_NHX3 lacked trans-membrane domain but were found to interact with other NHX genes as well as vital salinity pathway genes, including calcium-mediated salt-responsive genes. The comparison of the mRNA sequences with that of V. marina, a halophytic species, reflects their independent evolution, majorly supporting the convergent evolution. The Ka/Ks ratio reflects the abundance of purifying selection supporting their conserved function during evolution. In our analysis, several abiotic stress and hormone-responsive elements and transcription factor binding sites were present in the promoter of the NHX genes. Further, the ion partitioning of a tolerant (K90) and a susceptible (K49) variety of V. mungo suggested that K90 managed the Na
Flowering time is an important agronomic trait that is highly correlated with plant height, maturity time and yield in mungbean. Up to present, however, molecular basis of flowering time in mungbean is poorly understood. Previous studies demonstrated that flowering time in mungbean is largely controlled by a major QTL on linkage group 2 (LG2). In this study, the QTL on the LG2 in mungbean was investigated using F
Root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.) are plant parasites causing annual economic losses amounting to several billion US dollars worldwide. One of the most aggressive species is M. enterolobii, a growing threat to agriculture due to its broad host range and ability to overcome many known resistance genes. Mungbean, a nutritionally and economically valuable crop, is particularly vulnerable to nematodes and pathogens. However, research focusing on mungbean resistance to M. enterolobii is scarce, and the corresponding defense mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we screened mungbean accessions and identified an accession strongly resistant to M. enterolobii. Transcriptome analysis revealed 2730 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in this resistant accession (CPI106939) compared to 1777 in the susceptible accession (Crystal) 7 days after nematode inoculation. The gene ontology (GO) upregulated in CPI106939 with functions related to plant-pathogen interactions, plant hormone signaling, oxidative stress, and plant immunity. Plant defense-related genes (WRKY, PAL, MAPK, POD and PR) were also significantly induced in CPI106939. Metabolome analysis showed that four secondary metabolites related to phenylpropanoid metabolism and lignification were significantly enriched in CPI106939. The induced immune response and secondary metabolites may underpin the enhanced resistance to M. enterolobii, providing insight into the resistance mechanisms in accession CPI106939 as well as candidate genes controlling the interaction between mungbean and its nematode parasite. Our study therefore provides foundations for the breeding of new varieties with intrinsic M. enterolobii resistance.
The widespread use of S-metolachlor (ME) in agriculture to suppress weeds and boost crop yields, particularly in cultivating Vigna angularis, is well established. However, the application of organosilicon adjuvants with herbicides has potential threats to non-target crops. This study investigates the toxicity symptoms and mechanisms when V. angularis is exposed to ME in conjunction with a common organosilicon adjuvant. Results indicate that ME inhibits the growth of V. angularis seedlings, and adding adjuvants could aggravate the negative effects of ME. According to the growth index of seedlings, the adjuvant increased the toxicity of ME by 84-96 %. Additionally, the chlorophyll content, root permeability, and antioxidant indicators in the seedlings were also adversely affected. Integrated metabolomics and transcriptomics analyses reveal that differentially abundant metabolites (DAMs) and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) are mainly enriched in four ways: "lysine degradation," "ABC transporters," "phenylalanine metabolism," and "monoterpenoid biosynthesis." The metabolic pathways and gene regulatory network involving 11 DAMs and 22 DEGs are associated with the physiological processes affected by ME and the adjuvant. This study provides guidance for the application of herbicides and their adjuvants in agricultural production to minimize adverse effects on non-target crops.
A "watch and wait" strategy, delaying treatment until active disease manifests, is adopted for most CLL cases; however, prognostic models incorporating biomarkers have shown to be useful to predict treatment requirement. In our prospective O-CLL1 study including 224 patients, we investigated the predictive role of 513 microRNAs (miRNAs) on time to first treatment (TTFT). In the context of this study, six well-established variables (i.e., Rai stage, beta-2-microglobulin levels,
Node Inception (NIN) plays a crucial role in legume symbiosis by participating in both infection and nodule formation processes. However, its specific function in mungbean (Vigna radiata) remains poorly understood. This study aimed to functionally characterize the VrNIN1 gene in mungbean through an enhanced hairy root transformation approach. Examination of proVrNIN1: GUS hairy roots via GUS staining indicated the expression of VrNIN1 in later root promodia, nodule primordia, and nodules. Phenotypic evaluation revealed that overexpression or silencing of VrNIN1 led to a significant reduction in nodule numbers in hairy roots compared to controls. Additionally, interaction between VrNIN1 and VrNNC1 was confirmed through yeast two-hybrid, luciferase complementation and Co-immunoprecipitation assays. VrNNC1 expression was observed in the vascular bundle and cortex of roots and root nodules, where it notably suppressed nodule formation in transgenic hairy roots. Furthermore, gene expression analysis demonstrated the involvement of VrNIN1 and VrNNC1 in regulating root nodulation by modulating the expression of VrRIC1 and VrEDOD40. This study not only optimized the genetic transformation system for hairy roots in mungbean, but also provided mechanistic insights into the regulatory role of VrNIN1 in root nodule symbiosis in mungbean.
Mung bean coat has long been known for its wide-ranging health benefits, including antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, and immune-modulatory properties. For many years in China, mung beans have been employed in the therapeutic management of inflammation induced by pathogenic bacteria infection, yet the precise underlying protective mechanisms remain to be comprehensively elucidated. Given the growing concern over antibiotic resistance, there is a necessity to explore new anti-infective agents. Here, the anti-infective properties of Mung bean coat extract (MBCE) were investigated using a model of Pseudomonas aeruginosa-infected nematodes. The protective effects of MBCE on Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA14) infected nematodes were assessed by lifespan assay, reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, transcriptomics, and Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). MBCE significantly improved the survival rates and reduced ROS levels in infected worms. Transcriptomic profiling disclosed predominant KEGG pathway enrichments in immune responses, energy metabolism processes such as oxidative phosphorylation and the tricarboxylic acid cycle, alongside aging-related neurodegenerative diseases and longevity regulatory pathways like PI3K-AKT, MAPK, mTOR, and FOXO. qRT-PCR validation showed that MBCE upregulated antimicrobial peptides (spp-3, lys-1, lys-7, abf-2, cnc-2, nlp-33, clec-85), gram-negative responses (irg-3, src-2, grd-3, col-179), and mitochondrial function (mev-1) gene expressions, while downregulated insulin signaling-related (age-1, akt-1, akt-2, daf-15) gene expressions. Mutant strains lifespan analysis indicated that the nsy-1, sek-1, pmk-1, daf-2, aak-2, sir-2.1, and skn-1 were necessary for lifespan extension mediated by MBCE under PA14 infection, but not clk-1, isp-1, mev-1, or daf-16. Collectively, our findings suggested that MBCE increased the survival rates of PA14-infected worms by activating downstream antimicrobial and antioxidant gene expressions through modulation of MAPK, daf-2, aak-2, sir-2.1, and skn-1 pathways. The research underscored the potential of natural plant compounds to strengthen the body's defenses against infections, potentially mitigating harmful ROS levels and improving survival. Additionally, these findings elucidated the mechanisms by which these plant-derived compounds enhance the immune system, implying their potential utility as dietary supplements or as an alternative to conventional antibiotics.
The TATA-box binding protein (TBP) and TBP-associated factors (TAFs) constitute the transcription factor IID (TFIID), a crucial component of RNA polymerase II, essential for transcription initiation and regulation. Several TFIID subunits are shared with the Spt-Ada-Gcn5-acetyltransferase (SAGA) coactivator complex. Recent research has revealed the roles of TBP and TAFs in organogenesis and stress adaptation. In this study, we identified 1 TBP and 21 putative TAFs in the mungbean genome, among which
The adzuki bean is a mature seed of the red bean leguminous plant, and people like to eat it because of its nutritious properties and moderate proportion of amino acids. Adzuki bean germination and the enrichment of GABA greatly improve the health effects of the adzuki bean. The effects of the GABA-rich adzuki bean on the expression of insulin-pathway-related genes and proteins in the liver of T2DM mice were studied via Western blotting and qPCR. The results showed that a GABA-rich adzuki bean diet could promote glycogen synthesis in the liver of T2DM mice, inhibit the activities of PEPCK and G-6-Pase, and significantly down-regulate the gene expression levels of
In plants, WRKY transcription factors play a crucial role in plant growth, development, and response to abiotic and biotic stress. Cowpea (
The adzuki bean is a typical short-day plant and an important grain crop that is widely used due to its high nutritional and medicinal value. The adzuki bean flowering time is affected by multiple environmental factors, particularly the photoperiod. Adjusting the day length can induce flower synchronization in adzuki bean and accelerate the breeding process. In this study, we used RNA sequencing analysis to determine the effects of different day lengths on gene expression and metabolic characteristics related to adzuki bean flowering time. 'Tangshan hong xiao dou' was used as the experimental material in this study and field experiments were conducted in 2022 using a randomized block design with three treatments: short-day induction periods of 5 d (SD-5d), 10 d (SD-10d), and 15 d (SD-15d). A total of 5,939 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, of which 38.09% were up-regulated and 23.81% were down-regulated. Gene ontology enrichment analysis was performed on the target genes to identify common functions related to photosystems I and II. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis identified two pathways involved in the antenna protein and circadian rhythm. Furthermore, florescence was promoted by down-regulating genes in the circadian rhythm pathway through the blue light metabolic pathway; whereas, antenna proteins promoted flowering by enhancing the reception of light signals and accelerating electron transport. In these two metabolic pathways, the number of DEGs was the greatest between the SD-5d VS SD-15d groups. Real-time reverse transcription‒quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis results of eight DEGs were consistent with the sequencing results. Thus, the sequencing results were accurate and reliable and eight genes were identified as candidates for the regulation of short-day induction at the adzuki bean seedling stage. Short-day induction was able to down-regulate the expression of genes related to flowering according to the circadian rhythm and up-regulate the expression of certain genes in the antenna protein pathway. The results provide a theoretical reference for the molecular mechanism of short-day induction and multi-level information for future functional studies to verify the key genes regulating adzuki bean flowering.
There is an increasing amount of research into the development of a third generation of iron supplementation using peptide-iron chelates. Peptides isolated from mung bean were chelated with ferrous iron (MBP-Fe) and tested as a supplement in mice suffering from iron-deficiency anemia (IDA). Mice were randomly divided into seven groups: a group fed the normal diet, the IDA model group, and IDA groups treated with inorganic iron (FeSO
Cowpea wilt is a harmful disease caused by Fusarium oxysporum, leading to substantial losses in cowpea production. Melatonin reportedly regulates plant immunity to pathogens; however the specific regulatory mechanism underlying the protective effect of melatonin pretreated of cowpea against Fusarium oxysporum remains known. Accordingly, the study sought to evaluate changes in the physiological and biochemical indices of cowpea following melatonin treated to facilitate Fusarium oxysporum resistance and elucidate the associated molecular mechanism using a weighted gene coexpression network. Treatment with 100 µM melatonin was effective in increasing cowpea resistance to Fusarium oxysporum. Glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX), catalase (CAT), and salicylic acid (SA) levels were significantly upregulated, and hydrogen peroxide (H The study elucidated changes in the expression of genes associated with the response of cowpea to Fusarium oxysporum under melatonin treated. Specifically, multiple defence mechanisms were initiated to improve cowpea resistance to Fusarium oxysporum.
Plants exposed to heavy metals (HMs) stress negatively affect their development and production capacity. Chromium (Cr), Cadmium (Cd), and Lead (Pb) are the most common hazardous trace metals in agriculture. The physiological, biochemical, and molecular characteristics of crops are being affected. Phytoremediation is a method to alleviate heavy metals from the contaminated soil. The study aims to evaluate the phytoremediation ability of Vigna radiata L. (mung bean) in the absence and the presence of multi-metal tolerant and plant growth promoting Pseudomonas geniculata strain TIU16A3 isolated from soil of tannery industrial estate, Kolkata, West Bengal, India. The strain was further assessed with increasing concentrations of Cr, Cd, and Pb (10, 20, 40, and 80 µg/mL) when the mung bean plant was a test crop. The strain significantly increased plant growth, chlorophyll content, increased level of antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, and catalase, and decreased oxidative stress indicators like H
HER2 amplification occurs in approximately 5% of colorectal cancer (CRC) cases and is associated only partially with clinical response to combined human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)/epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-targeted treatment. An alternative approach based on adoptive cell therapy using T cells engineered with anti-HER2 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) proved to be toxic due to on-target/off-tumor activity. Here we describe a combinatorial strategy to safely target HER2 amplification and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) expression in CRC using a synNotch-CAR-based artificial regulatory network. The natural killer (NK) cell line NK-92 was engineered with an anti-HER2 synNotch receptor driving the expression of a CAR against CEA only when engaged. After being transduced and sorted for HER2-driven CAR expression, cells were cloned. The clone with optimal performances in terms of specificity and amplitude of CAR induction demonstrated significant activity in vitro and in vivo specifically against HER2-amplified (HER2amp)/CEA
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) is an important warm-season grain legume. Adaptation to extreme environmental conditions, supported by evolution, makes mung bean a rich gene pool for stress tolerance traits. The exploration of resistance genes will provide important genetic resources and a theoretical basis for strengthening mung bean breeding. B-box (BBX) proteins play a major role in developmental processes and stress responses. However, the identification and analysis of the mung bean BBX gene family are still lacking. In this study, 23 VrBBX genes were identified through comprehensive bioinformatics analysis and named based on their physical locations on chromosomes. All the VrBBXs were divided into five groups based on their phylogenetic relationships, the number of B-box they contained and whether there was an additional CONSTANS, CO-like and TOC1 (CCT) domain. Homology and collinearity analysis indicated that the BBX genes in mung bean and other species had undergone a relatively conservative evolution. Gene duplication analysis showed that only chromosomal segmental duplication contributed to the expansion of VrBBX genes and that most of the duplicated gene pairs experienced purifying selection pressure during evolution. Gene structure and motif analysis revealed that VrBBX genes clustered in the same group shared similar structural characteristics. An analysis of cis-acting elements indicated that elements related to stress and hormone responses were prevalent in the promoters of most VrBBXs. The RNA-seq data analysis and qRT-PCR of nine VrBBX genes demonstrated that VrBBX genes may play a role in response to environmental stress. Moreover, VrBBX5, VrBBX10 and VrBBX12 are important candidate genes for plant stress response. In this study, we systematically analyzed the genomic characteristics and expression patterns of the BBX gene family under ABA, PEG and NaCl treatments. The results will help us better understand the complexity of the BBX gene family and provide valuable information for future functional characteristics of specific genes in this family.
The Multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (MATE) and aluminium activated malate transporter (ALMT) gene families are involved in response to aluminium (Al) stress. In this study, we identified 48 MATE and 14 ALMT gene families in Vigna radiata genome and classified into 5 (MATE) and 3 (ALMT) clades by phylogenetic analysis. All the VrMATE and VrALMT genes were distributed across mungbean chromosomes. Tandem duplication was the main driving force for evolution and expansion of MATE gene family. Collinearity of mungbean with soybean indicated that MATE gene family is closely linked to Glycine max. Eight MATE transporters in clade 2 were found to be associated with previously characterized Al tolerance related MATEs in various plant species. Citrate exuding motif (CEM) was present in seven VrMATEs of clade 2. Promoter analysis revealed abundant plant hormone and stress responsive cis-elements. Results from quantitative real time-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) revealed that VrMATE19, VrMATE30 and VrALMT13 genes were markedly up-regulated at different time points under Al stress. Overall, this study offers a new direction for further molecular characterization of the MATE and ALMT genes in mungbean for Al tolerance.
Cadmium (Cd), one of the most phytotoxic heavy metals, is a major contributor to yield losses in several crops. Silicon (Si) is recognized for its vital role in mitigating Cd toxicity, however, the specific mechanisms governing this mitigation process are still not fully understood. In the present study, the effect of Si supplementation on mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) plants grown under Cd stress was investigated to unveil the intricate pathways defining Si derived stress tolerance. Non-invasive leaf imaging technique revealed improved growth, biomass, and photosynthetic efficiency in Si supplemented mungbean plants under Cd stress. Further, physiological and biochemical analysis revealed Si mediated increase in activity of glutathione reductase (GR), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), and catalase (CAT) enzymes involved in reactive oxygen species (ROS) metabolism leading to mitigation of cellular damage and oxidative stress. Untargeted metabolomic analysis using liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) provided insights into Si mediated changes in metabolites and their respective pathways under Cd stress. Alteration in five different metabolic pathways with major changes in flavanols and flavonoids biosynthesis pathway which is essential for controlling plants antioxidant defense system and oxidative stress management were observed. The information reported here about the effects of Si on photosynthetic efficiency, antioxidant responses, and metabolic changes will be helpful in understanding the Si-mediated resistance to Cd stress in plants.
Drought stress has become an important limiting factor in mung bean production, and NAC(NAM/ATAF/CUC) transcription factors are crucial for plant growth under stress conditions, so it is important to study the regulatory role of NAC transcription factors in mung bean under drought stress. In this investigation, VrNAC15, along with its promoter, was cloned, and its structure was meticulously analyzed. Using qPCR, we examined the tissue-specific expression patterns of VrNAC15, particularly under drought stress and ABA exposure. Additionally, We performed ectopic expression of VrNAC15 in Arabidopsis to assess its function.. Gene sequence analysis revealed that VrNAC15 has a total length of 1014 bp, encoding 337 amino acids. It contains a NAM domain, localizes within the nucleus, and exhibits transcriptional activation. Promoter analysis of VrNAC15 identified essential core promoter elements and cis-acting elements related to abscisic acid, methyl jasmonate, gibberellin, adversity stress, light, and metabolism. Expression analysis demonstrated the concentration of VrNAC15 in leaves, with significant alterations following ABA and drought treatments in mung beans. Cluster analysis revealed that VrNAC15 may enhanced drought tolerance in transgenic plants through its expression. Transgenic experiments supported these findings, showing that heterologous expression of VrNAC15 led to enhanced antioxidant and osmotic adjustment capabilities in Arabidopsis plants. This resulted in the maintenance of cell membrane structural integrity during drought stress and normal physiological and biochemical metabolic reactions within cells. This research provides valuable insights into the structural and functional characteristics of the VrNAC15, setting the stage for future endeavors in molecular breeding for improved drought resistance in mung beans.
Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most commonly diagnosed extracranial solid tumor in children, accounting for 15% of all childhood cancer deaths. Although the 5-year survival rate of patients with a high-risk disease has increased in recent decades, NB remains a challenge in pediatric oncology, and the identification of novel potential therapeutic targets and agents is an urgent clinical need. The RNA-binding protein LIN28B has been identified as an oncogene in NB and is associated with a poor prognosis. Given that LIN28B acts by negatively regulating the biogenesis of the tumor suppressor let-7 miRNAs, we reasoned that selective interference with the LIN28B/let-7 miRNA interaction would increase let-7 miRNA levels, ultimately leading to reduced NB aggressiveness. Here, we selected (-)-epigallocatechin 3-gallate (EGCG) out of 4959 molecules screened as the molecule with the best inhibitory activity on LIN28B/let-7 miRNA interaction and showed that treatment with PLC/PLGA-PEG nanoparticles containing EGCG (EGCG-NPs) led to an increase in mature let-7 miRNAs and a consequent inhibition of NB cell growth. In addition, EGCG-NP pretreatment reduced the tumorigenic potential of NB cells in vivo. These experiments suggest that the LIN28B/let-7 miRNA axis is a good therapeutic target in NB and that EGCG, which can interfere with this interaction, deserves further preclinical evaluation.
Molecular mechanisms which underpin compound leaf development in some legumes have been reported, but there is no previous study on the molecular genetic control of compound leaf formation in Vigna unguiculata (cowpea), an important dryland legume of African origin. In most studied species with compound leaves, class 1 KNOTTED-LIKE HOMEOBOX genes expressed in developing leaf primordia sustain morphogenetic activity, allowing leaf dissection and the development of leaflets. Other genes, such as, SINGLE LEAFLET1 in Medicago truncatula and Trifoliate in Solanum lycopersicum, are also implicated in regulating compound leaf patterning. To set the pace for an in-depth understanding of the genetics of compound leaf development in cowpea, we applied RNA-seq and whole genome shotgun sequence datasets of a spontaneous cowpea unifoliate mutant and its trifoliate wild-type cultivar to conduct comparative reference-based gene expression, de novo genome-wide isoform switch, and genome variant analyses between the two genotypes. Our results suggest that genomic variants upstream of LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL and down-stream of REVEILLE4, BRASSINOSTERIOD INSENSITIVE1 and LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES result in down-regulation of key components of cowpea circadian rhythm central oscillator and brassinosteroid signaling, resulting in unifoliate leaves and brassinosteroid-deficient-like phenotypes. We have stated hypotheses that will guide follow-up studies expected to provide more insights.
Rice bean (Vigna umbellata), an underrated legume, adapts to diverse climatic conditions with the potential to support food and nutritional security worldwide. It is used as a vegetable, minor food crop and a fodder crop, being a rich source of proteins, minerals, and essential fatty acids. However, little effort has been made to decipher the genetic and molecular basis of various useful traits in this crop. Therefore, we considered three economically important traits i.e., flowering, maturity and seed weight of rice bean and identified the associated candidate genes employing an associative transcriptomics approach on 100 diverse genotypes out of 1800 evaluated rice bean accessions from the Indian National Genebank. The transcriptomics-based genotyping of one-hundred diverse rice bean cultivars followed by pre-processing of genotypic data resulted in 49,271 filtered markers. The STRUCTURE, PCA and Neighbor-Joining clustering of 100 genotypes revealed three putative sub-populations. The marker-trait association analysis involving various genome-wide association study (GWAS) models revealed significant association of 82 markers on 48 transcripts for flowering, 26 markers on 22 transcripts for maturity and 22 markers on 21 transcripts for seed weight. The transcript annotation provided information on the putative candidate genes for the considered traits. The candidate genes identified for flowering include HSC80, P-II PsbX, phospholipid-transporting-ATPase-9, pectin-acetylesterase-8 and E3-ubiquitin-protein-ligase-RHG1A. Further, the WRKY1 and DEAD-box-RH27 were found to be associated with seed weight. Furthermore, the associations of PIF3 and pentatricopeptide-repeat-containing-gene with maturity and seed weight, and aldo-keto-reductase with flowering and maturity were revealed. This study offers insights into the genetic basis of key agronomic traits in rice bean, including flowering, maturity, and seed weight. The identified markers and associated candidate genes provide valuable resources for future exploration and targeted breeding, aiming to enhance the agronomic performance of rice bean cultivars. Notably, this research represents the first transcriptome-wide association study in pulse crop, uncovering the candidate genes for agronomically useful traits.
Strigolactones (SLs), a class of plant apocarotenoids, serve dual roles as rhizosphere-signaling molecules and plant hormones. Orobanchol, a major naturally occurring SL, along with its various derivatives, has been detected in the root exudates of plants of the Fabaceae family. Medicaol, fabacyl acetate, and orobanchyl acetate were identified in the root exudates of barrel medic (
Trisomy 21 (T21), which causes Down syndrome (DS), is the most common chromosomal aneuploidy in humankind and includes different clinical comorbidities, among which the alteration of the immune system has a heavy impact on patient's lives. A molecule with an important role in immune response is zinc and it is known that its concentration is significantly lower in children with T21. Different hypotheses were made about this metabolic alteration and one of the reasons might be the overexpression of superoxide dismutase 1 ( The aim of our work is to explore if there is a linear correlation between zinc level and immune cell levels measured in a total of 217 blood samples from subjects with T21. Furthermore, transcriptome map analyses were performed using Transcriptome Mapper (TRAM) software to investigate whether a difference in gene expression is detectable between subjects with T21 and euploid control group in tissues and cells involved in the immune response such as lymphoblastoid cells, thymus and white blood cells. Our results have confirmed the literature data stating that the blood zinc level in subjects with T21 is lower compared to the general population; in addition, we report that the T21/control zinc concentration ratio is 2:3, consistent with a chromosomal dosage effect due to the presence of three copies of chromosome 21. The transcriptome map analyses showed an alteration of some gene's expression which might explain low levels of zinc in the blood. Our data suggest that zinc level is not associated with the levels of immunity cells or proteins analyzed themselves and rather the main role of this ion might be played in altering immune cell function.
The origin and functionality of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) remain poorly understood. Here, we show that multiple quantitative trait loci modulating distinct domestication traits in soybeans are pleiotropic effects of a locus composed of two tandem lncRNA genes. These lncRNA genes, each containing two inverted repeats, originating from coding sequences of the MYB genes, function in wild soybeans by generating clusters of small RNA (sRNA) species that inhibit the expression of their MYB gene relatives through post-transcriptional regulation. By contrast, the expression of lncRNA genes in cultivated soybeans is severely repressed, and, consequently, the corresponding MYB genes are highly expressed, shaping multiple distinct domestication traits as well as leafhopper resistance. The inverted repeats were formed before the divergence of the Glycine genus from the Phaseolus-Vigna lineage and exhibit strong structure-function constraints. This study exemplifies a type of target for selection during plant domestication and identifies mechanisms of lncRNA formation and action.
TCP transcription factors are known to regulate abiotic stress condition, but their role in The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-024-03976-x.
The combined stress studies provide fundamental knowledge that could assist in producing multiple stress resilient crops. The fungal phytopathogen, Macrophomina phaseolina is a major limiting factor in the productivity of the crop, Vigna radiata (mungbean). This fungal species tends to flourish under hot and dry conditions. Therefore, in this study the salicylic acid (SA) mediated stress responses in contrasting mungbean cultivars (Shikha and RMG-975) exposed to combined M. phaseolina infection (F) and drought stress (D) have been elucidated. The combined stress was applied to ten days seedlings in three orders i.e. drought followed by fungal infection (DF), drought followed by fungal infection with extended water deficit (DFD) and fungal infection followed by drought stress (FD). The severity of infection was analyzed using ImageJ analysis. Besides, the concentration of SA has been correlated with the phenylpropanoid pathway products, expression of pathogenesis-related proteins (β-1,3-glucanase and chitinase) and the specific activity of certain related enzymes (phenylalanine ammonia lyase, lipoxygenase and glutathione-S-transferase). The data revealed that the cultivar RMG-975 was relatively more tolerant than Shikha under individual stresses. However, the former became more susceptible to the infection under DFD treatment while the latter showed tolerance. Otherwise, the crown rot severity was reduced in both the cultivars under other combined treatments. The stress response analysis suggested that enhanced chitinase expression is vital for tolerance against both, the pathogen and drought stress. Also, it was noted that plants treat each stress combination differently and the role of SA was more prominently visible under individual stress conditions.
Cisplatin is a widely used anti-cancer drug for treating solid tumors, but it is associated with severe side effects, including nephrotoxicity. Various studies have suggested that the nephrotoxicity of cisplatin could be overcome; nonetheless, an effective adjuvant drug has not yet been established. Oleanolic acid acetate (OAA), a triterpenoid isolated from
Mung bean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek), is an important pulse crop in the global south. Early flowering and maturation are advantageous traits for adaptation to northern and southern latitudes. This study investigates the genetic basis of the Days-to-Flowering trait (DTF) in mung bean, combining genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in mung bean and comparisons with orthologous genes involved with control of DTF responses in soybean (Glycine max (L) Merr) and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The most significant associations for DTF were on mung bean chromosomes 1, 2, and 4. Only the SNPs on chromosomes 1 and 4 were heavily investigated using downstream analysis. The chromosome 1 DTF association is tightly linked with a cluster of locally duplicated FERONIA (FER) receptor-like protein kinase genes, and the SNP occurs within one of the FERONIA genes. In Arabidopsis, an orthologous FERONIA gene (AT3G51550), has been reported to regulate the expression of the FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC). For the chromosome 4 DTF locus, the strongest candidates are Vradi04g00002773 and Vradi04g00002778, orthologous to the Arabidopsis PhyA and PIF3 genes, encoding phytochrome A (a photoreceptor protein sensitive to red to far-red light) and phytochrome-interacting factor 3, respectively. The soybean PhyA orthologs include the classical loci E3 and E4 (genes GmPhyA3, Glyma.19G224200, and GmPhyA2, Glyma.20G090000). The mung bean PhyA ortholog has been previously reported as a candidate for DTF in studies conducted in South Korea. The top two identified SNPs accounted for a significant proportion (~ 65%) of the phenotypic variability in mung bean DTF by the six significant SNPs (39.61%), with a broad-sense heritability of 0.93. The strong associations of DTF with genes that have orthologs with analogous functions in soybean and Arabidopsis provide strong circumstantial evidence that these genes are causal for this trait. The three reported loci and candidate genes provide useful targets for marker-assisted breeding in mung beans.
The SPL gene family (for Squamosa Promoter-binding like Proteins) represents specific transcription factors that have significant roles in abiotic stress tolerance, development and the growth processes of different plants, including initiation of the leaf, branching and development of shoot and fruits. The SPL gene family has been studied in different plant species; however, its role is not yet fully explored in pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan ). In the present study, 11 members of the CcSPL gene family were identified in C. cajan . The identified SPLs were classified into nine groups based on a phylogenetic analysis involving SPL protein sequences from C. cajan , Arabidopsis thaliana , Cicer arietinum , Glycine max , Phaseolus vulgaris , Vigna unguiculata and Arachis hypogaea . Further, the identification of gene structure, motif analysis, domain analysis and presence of cis -regulatory elements in the SPL family members were studied. Based on RNA-sequencing data, gene expression analysis was performed, revealing that CcSPL2.1, 3 and 13A were significantly upregulated for salt-tolerance and CcSPL14 and 15 were upregulated in a salt-susceptible cultivar. Real-time qPCR validation indicated that CcSPL3, 4, 6 and 13A were upregulated under salt stress conditions. Therefore, molecular docking was performed against the proteins of two highly expressed genes (CcSPL3 and CcSPL14 ) with three ligands: abscisic acid, gibberellic acid and indole-3-acetic acid. Afterward, their binding affinity was obtained and three-dimensional structures were predicted. In the future, our study may open avenues for harnessing CcSPL genes in pigeon pea for enhanced abiotic stress resistance and developmental traits.
Mung bean (Vigna radiata) stands as a crucial legume crop in Asia, contributing to food security. However, our understanding of the underlying genetic foundation governing domesticated agronomic traits, especially those linked to pod architecture, remains largely unexplored. In this study, we delved into the genomic divergence between wild and domesticated mung bean varieties, leveraging germplasm obtained from diverse sources. Our findings unveiled pronounced variation in promoter regions (35%) between the two mung bean subpopulations, suggesting substantial changes in gene expression patterns during domestication. Leveraging transcriptome analysis using distinct reproductive stage pods and subpopulations, we identified candidate genes responsible for pod and seed architecture development, along with Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) and Quantitative Trait Locus (QTL) analysis. Notably, our research conclusively confirmed PDH1 as a parallel domesticated gene governing pod dehiscence in legumes. This study imparts valuable insights into the genetic underpinnings of domesticated agronomic traits in mung bean, and simultaneously highlighting the parallel domestication of pivotal traits within the realm of legume crops.
The mediator complex subunits (MED) constitutes a multiprotein complex, with each subunit intricately involved in crucial aspects of plant growth, development, and responses to stress. Nevertheless, scant reports pertain to the VunMED gene within the context of asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedialis). Establishing the identification and exploring the responsiveness of VunMED to cold stress forms a robust foundation for the cultivation of cold-tolerant asparagus bean cultivars. Within this study, a comprehensive genome-wide identification of VunMED genes was executed in the asparagus bean cultivar 'Ningjiang3', resulting in the discovery of 36 distinct VunMED genes. A phylogenetic analysis encompassing 232 MED genes from diverse species, including Arabidopsis, tomatoes, soybeans, mung beans, cowpeas, and asparagus beans, underscored the highly conserved nature of MED gene sequences. Throughout evolutionary processes, each VunMED gene underwent purification and neutral selection, with the exception of VunMED19a. Notably, VunMED9/10b/12/13/17/23 exhibited structural variations discernible across four cowpea species. Divergent patterns of temporal and spatial expression were evident among VunMED genes, with a prominent role attributed to most genes during early fruit development. Additionally, an analysis of promoter cis-acting elements was performed, followed by qRT-PCR assessments on roots, stems, and leaves to gauge relative expression after exposure to cold stress and subsequent recovery. Both treatments induced transcriptional alterations in VunMED genes, with particularly pronounced effects observed in root-based genes following cold stress. Elucidating the interrelationships between subunits involved a preliminary understanding facilitated by correlation and principal component analyses. This study elucidates the pivotal contribution of VunMED genes to the growth, development, and response to cold stress in asparagus beans. Furthermore, it offers a valuable point of reference regarding the individual roles of MED subunits.
Evolutionarily conserved in plants, the enzyme D-myo-inositol-3-phosphate synthase (MIPS; EC 5.5.1.4) regulates the initial, rate-limiting reaction in the phytic acid biosynthetic pathway. They are reported to be transcriptional regulators involved in various physiological functions in the plants, growth, and biotic/abiotic stress responses. Even though the genomes of most legumes are fully sequenced and available, an all-inclusive study of the MIPS family members in legumes is still ongoing. We found 24 MIPS genes in ten legumes: Arachis hypogea, Cicer arietinum, Cajanus cajan, Glycine max, Lablab purpureus, Medicago truncatula, Pisum sativum, Phaseolus vulgaris, Trifolium pratense and Vigna unguiculata. The total number of MIPS genes found in each species ranged from two to three. The MIPS genes were classified into five clades based on their evolutionary relationships with Arabidopsis genes. The structural patterns of intron/exon and the protein motifs that were conserved in each gene were highly group-specific. In legumes, MIPS genes were inconsistently distributed across their genomes. A comparison of genomes and gene sequences showed that this family was subjected to purifying selection and the gene expansion in MIPS family in legumes was mainly caused by segmental duplication. Through quantitative PCR, expression patterns of MIPS in response to various abiotic stresses, in the vegetative tissues of various legumes were studied. Expression pattern shows that MIPS genes control the development and differentiation of various organs, and have significant responses to salinity and drought stress. The MIPS genes in the genomes of legumes have been identified, characterized and their expression was analysed. The findings pave way for understanding their molecular functions and evolution, and lead to identify the putative MIPS genes associated with different cell and tissue development.
Aphid salivary proteins mediate the interaction between aphids and their host plants. Moreover, these proteins facilitate digestion, detoxification of secondary metabolites, as well as activation and suppression of plant defenses. The cowpea aphid, Aphis craccivora, is an important sucking pest of leguminous crops worldwide. Although aphid saliva plays an important role in aphid plant interactions, knowledge of the cowpea aphid salivary proteins is limited. In this study, we performed transcriptomic and LC-MS/MS analyses to identify the proteins present in the salivary glands and saliva of A. craccivora. A total of 1,08,275 assembled transcripts were identified in the salivary glands of aphids. Of all these assembled transcripts, 53,714 (49.11%) and 53,577 (49.48%) transcripts showed high similarity to known proteins in the Nr and UniProt databases, respectively. A total of 2159 proteins were predicted as secretory proteins from the salivary gland transcriptome dataset, which contain digestive enzymes, detoxification enzymes, previously known effectors and elicitors, and potential proteins whose functions have yet to be determined. The proteomic analysis of aphid saliva resulted in the identification of 171 proteins. Tissue-specific expression of selected genes using RT-PCR showed that three genes were expressed only in the salivary glands. Overall, our results provide a comprehensive repertoire of cowpea aphid salivary proteins from the salivary gland and saliva, which will be a good resource for future effector functional studies and might also be useful for sustainable aphid management.
In different regions of the world, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is an important vegetable and an excellent source of protein. It lessens the malnutrition of the underprivileged in developing nations and has some positive effects on health, such as a reduction in the prevalence of cancer and cardiovascular disease. However, occasionally, certain biotic and abiotic stresses caused a sharp fall in cowpea yield. Major RNA interference (RNAi) genes like Dicer-like (DCL), Argonaute (AGO), and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR) are essential for the synthesis of their associated factors like domain, small RNAs (sRNAs), transcription factors, micro-RNAs, and
Mungbean is known to be susceptible to waterlogging (WL) stress. Some of the wild species have the potential to tolerate this through various physiological and molecular mechanisms.
Mung bean is a dual-use crop widely cultivated in Southeast Asia as a food and medicine resource. The development of new functional mung bean varieties demands identifying new genes regulating anthocyanidin synthesis and investigating their molecular mechanism. In this study, we used high-throughput sequencing technology to generate transcriptome sequence of leaves, petioles, and hypocotyls for investigating the anthocyanins accumulation in common mung bean variety as well as anthocyanidin rich mung bean variety, and to elucidate their molecular mechanisms. 29 kinds of anthocyanin compounds were identified. Most of the anthocyanin components contents were significantly higher in ZL23 compare with AL12. Transcriptome analysis suggested that a total of 93 structural genes encoding the anthocyanin biosynthetic pathway and 273 regulatory genes encoding the ternary complex of MYB-bHLH-WD40 were identified, of which 26 and 78 were differentially expressed in the two varieties. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis revealed that VrMYB3 and VrMYB90 might have enhanced mung bean anthocyanin content by inducing the expression of structural genes such as
Eukaryotic genomes show an intricate three-dimensional (3D) organization within the nucleus that regulates multiple biological processes including gene expression. Contrary to animals, understanding of 3D genome organization in plants remains at a nascent stage. Here, we investigate the evolution of 3D chromatin architecture in legumes. By using cutting-edge PacBio, Illumina, and Hi-C contact reads, we report a gap-free, chromosome-scale reference genome assembly of
The influence of drought induced by polyethylene glycol (PEG) and the alleviatory effect of nitric oxide (50 µM) and sulphur (S, 1 mM K
Specific stimuli to plants influence intracellular and intercellular communications, activation of ion channels, gene expression, growth and development. The functional role of self-induced in situ electrical stimuli at the rhizosphere of the plant by placing electrode assembly in a defined circuit mode was studied on the growth and development of Vigna radiata and Cicer arietinum plants. Experiments were designed with three-circuit mode configurational variations (CC-P, OC-P and SC-P) and compared with the relative performance of control system (non-potential). The plants cultivated under the in situ electrical stimuli (low-current) showed a marked influence on growth and photosynthetic performance of the plants. CC-P operation showed improved vegetative growth, characterized by increased roots, shoots and biomass along with accelerated plant growth from seed germination to vegetation, flowering and pod formation leading towards earlier and more robust flowering compared to control system. Plants also showed higher aquaporin gene expression levels in CC-P operation. The control operation showed 10 days additional maturation time compared to CC-P operation. The strategy can be beneficially applied to augment the bioremediation capacity of complex pollutants with reference to phytoremediation or constructed wetland systems where the plant and its roots are the main enabler apart from agriculture applications specific to nursery-raised or transplanted plants.
Plants are a source of natural ingredients with retinol-like properties that can deliver anti-aging benefits without the side effects typically associated with retinoid use. We hypothesized that by combining two such analogs, bakuchiol (BAK) and Vigna aconitifolia extract (VAE), with the potent retinoid retinal (RAL), the anti-photoaging potential of RAL could be enhanced without compromising its skin irritation profile. The purpose of this study was to demonstrate that BAK and VAE potentiate the anti-photoaging activity of RAL. Gene expression profiling of full-thickness reconstructed skin was first used to examine the impact of BAK or VAE in combination with RAL on skin biology. Next, the irritative potential of this combination, and its capacity to reverse key signs of photoaging in an ex vivo model was assessed. Finally, a proof-of-concept open label clinical study was performed to evaluate the anti-photoaging capacity and skin compatibility of a cosmetic formulation (tri-retinoid complex; 3RC) containing this complex in combination with other well characterized anti-photoaging ingredients. In vitro profiling suggested that combining 0.1% RAL with BAK or VAE potentiates the effect of RAL on keratinocyte differentiation and skin barrier function without affecting its skin irritation profile. When formulated with other anti-photoaging ingredients, such as niacinamide and melatonin, 3RC reversed ultraviolet radiation-induced deficits in structural components of the dermal extracellular matrix, including hyaluronic acid and collagen. In vivo, it led to a reversal of clinical signs of age and photodamage, with statistically significant improvement to skin firmness (+5.6%), skin elasticity (+13.9%), wrinkle count (-43.2%), and skin tone homogeneity (+7.0%), observed within 28 days of once nightly use. Notably, the number of crow's feet wrinkles was reduced in 100% of subjects. Furthermore, 3RC was very well tolerated. These data suggest that 3RC is a highly effective and well-tolerated treatment for photoaging.
Long terminal repeat (LTR)-retrotransposons (LTR-RTs) are ubiquitous and make up the majority of nearly all sequenced plant genomes, whereas their pivotal roles in genome evolution, gene expression regulation as well as their epigenetic regulation are still not well understood, especially in a large number of closely related species. Here, we analyzed the abundance and dynamic evolution of LTR-RTs in 54 species from an economically and agronomically important family, Fabaceae, and also selected two representative species for further analysis in expression of associated genes, transcriptional activity and DNA methylation patterns of LTR-RTs. Annotation results revealed highly varied proportions of LTR-RTs in these genomes (5.1%~68.4%) and their correlation with genome size was highly positive, and they were significantly contributed to the variance in genome size through species-specific unique amplifications. Almost all of the intact LTR-RTs were inserted into the genomes 4 Mya (million years ago), and more than 50% of them were inserted in the last 0.5 million years, suggesting that recent amplifications of LTR-RTs were an important force driving genome evolution. In addition, expression levels of genes with intronic, promoter, and downstream LTR-RT insertions of Glycine max and Vigna radiata, two agronomically important crops in Fabaceae, showed that the LTR-RTs located in promoter or downstream regions suppressed associated gene expression. However, the LTR-RTs within introns promoted gene expression or had no contribution to gene expression. Additionally, shorter and younger LTR-RTs maintained higher mobility and transpositional potential. Compared with the transcriptionally silent LTR-RTs, the active elements showed significantly lower DNA methylation levels in all three contexts. The distributions of transcriptionally active and silent LTR-RT methylation varied across different lineages due to the position of LTR-RTs located or potentially epigenetic regulation. Lineage-specific amplification patterns were observed and higher methylation level may repress the activity of LTR-RTs, further influence evolution in Fabaceae species. This study offers valuable clues into the evolution, function, transcriptional activity and epigenetic regulation of LTR-RTs in Fabaceae genomes.
Symbiotic interaction among legume and rhizobia is a complex phenomenon which results in the formation of nitrogen-fixing nodules. Mung bean is promiscuous host however expression profile of this important legume plant in response to rhizobial infection was particularly lacking and urgently needed. We have demonstrated the pattern of gene expression of mung bean roots inoculated with two symbionts Bradyrhizobium yuanmingense Vr50 and Sinorhizobium (Ensifer) aridi Vr33 and non-inoculated control (CK). The RNA-Seq data analyzed at two growth stages i.e., 1-3 h and 10-16 days post inoculation revealed significantly higher number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) at nodulation stage. The DEGs encoding receptor kinases identified at early stage might be involved in perception of Nod factors produced by different rhizobia. At nodulation stage important genes involved in plant hormone signal transduction, nitrogen and sulfur metabolism were identified. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis showed that metabolic pathways were most prominent in both groups (Group 1: Vr33 vs CK; Group 2: Vr50 vs CK), followed by biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, plant hormone signal transduction and biosynthesis of amino acids. Furthermore, DEGs involved in cell communication and plant hormone signal transduction were found to be different among two symbiotic systems while DEGs involved in carbon, nitrogen and sulfur metabolism were similar but their expression varied in response to two rhizobial strains. This study provides the first insight into the mechanisms underlying interactions of mung bean host with two taxonomically different symbionts (Bradyrhizobium and Sinorhizobium) and the candidate genes for better understanding the mechanisms of symbiotic host-speciﬁcity.
Vigna reflexo-pilosa (créole bean) is a wild legume belonging to the subgenus Ceratoropis and is widely distributed in Asia. Créole bean is the only tetraploid species in the genus Vigna, and it has been shown to derive from the hybridization of Vigna hirtella and Vigna trinervia. In this study, we combined the long-read PacBio technology with the chromatin contact mapping (Hi-C) technique to obtain a chromosome-level assembly of V. reflexo-pilosa. The final assembly contained 998,724,903 bases with an N50 length of 42,545,650 bases. Our gene prediction recovered 99.4% of the highly conserved orthologs based on the BUSCO analysis. To investigate homoeolog expression bias and expression level dominance in the tetraploid, we also sequenced and assembled the genomes of its progenitors. Overall, the majority of the homoeolog pairs (72.9%) displayed no expression bias, and among those that exhibited biased expression, 16.3% showed unbalanced homoeolog expression bias toward the V. trinervia subgenome. Moreover, 41.2% and 36.2% of the expressed gene pairs exhibited transgressive expression and expression level dominance, respectively. Interestingly, the genome-wide expression level dominance in the tetraploid was biased toward the V. trinervia subgenome. The analysis of methylation patterns also revealed that the average methylation levels in coding regions were higher in the V. hirtella subgenome than those in the V. trinervia subgenome. The genomic/transcriptomic resources for these three species are useful not only for the development of elite cultivars in Vigna breeding programs but also to researchers studying comparative genomics and investigating genomic/epigenomic changes following polyploid events.
Plant glutamate receptor proteins (GLRs) are involved in plant development, biotic stress, and light-signal transduction. Vigna angularis is a traditional crop with important economic value in China, and the identification of functional genes can facilitate the breeding of stress resistant varieties. Here, we identified the members of the GLR gene family in the adzuki bean genome and investigated gene expression under light and rust fungal (Uromyces vignae) stimuli. Sixteen GLR genes were identified in V. angularis (VaGLRs), and these genes clustered in a single clade (clade III) with two groups. Evolutionary analysis showed that three VaGLRs result from tandem duplications and four result from whole genome/segmental duplications. To understand the regulation of expression of VaGLRs, cis-acting elements were analyzed in the promoter regions of the VaGLRs including cis-acting elements associated with light and stress responsiveness. Expression analysis by qRT-PCR revealed transcripts of eight and 10 VaGLRs in response to light stimuli and rust infection, respectively. For light responsiveness, the expression levels of XP_017430569.1 and XP_017425299.1 were higher under light condition than in darkness, while the expression levels of XP_017406996.1, XP_017425763.1, and XP_017423557.1 gradually recovered during dark treatment. Additionally, the relative expression levels of XP_017413816.1, XP_017436268.1, and XP_017425299.1 were significantly elevated during U. vignae infection in a resistant cultivar compared to the expression levels in a susceptible cultivar. XP_017425299.1 expression was induced both by light and rust infection, suggesting this gene may link light and disease resistance signaling pathways. Our results provide insight into how the VaGLRs contribute to adzuki bean response to light stimulus and pathogen attack. These identified VaGLRs also provide important reference to improve adzuki bean germplasm resources.
Cancer cell dissemination is sustained by cell-autonomous and non-cell-autonomous functions. To disentangle the role of HGF (Hepatocyte Growth Factor) and MET ligand/receptor axis in this complex process, we genetically knocked out the MET gene in cancer cells in which MET is not the oncogenic driver. In this way, we evaluated the contribution of the HGF/MET axis to cancer cell dissemination independently of its direct activities in cells of the tumor microenvironment. The lack of MET expression in MET
Domestication is the long and complex process underlying the evolution of crops, in which artificial directional selection transformed wild progenitors into the desired form, affecting genomic variation and leaving traces of selection at targeted loci. However, whether genes controlling important domestication traits follow the same evolutionary pattern expected under the standard selective sweep model remains unclear. With whole-genome resequencing of mungbean (Vigna radiata), we investigated this issue by resolving its global demographic history and targeted dissection of the molecular footprints of genes underlying 2 key traits representing different stages of domestication. Mungbean originated in Asia, and the Southeast Asian wild population migrated to Australia about 50 thousand generations ago. Later in Asia, the cultivated form diverged from the wild progenitor. We identified the gene associated with the pod shattering resistance trait, VrMYB26a, with lower expression across cultivars and reduced polymorphism in the promoter region, reflecting a hard selective sweep. On the other hand, the stem determinacy trait was associated with VrDet1. We found that 2 ancient haplotypes of this gene have lower gene expression and exhibited intermediate frequencies in cultivars, consistent with selection favoring independent haplotypes in a soft selective sweep. In mungbean, contrasting signatures of selection were identified from the detailed dissection of 2 important domestication traits. The results suggest complex genetic architecture underlying the seemingly simple process of directional artificial selection and highlight the limitations of genome-scan methods relying on hard selective sweeps.
Selenium (Se) biofortification of crops has been studied to substantially improve the Se content in human dietary food intake. In the present study, Vigna radiata (mung bean) seeds were soaked in different concentrations of sodium selenite (Na
Black mung bean is rich in anthocyanin, however, the accumulation and the molecular mechanism of anthocyanin synthesis in black mung bean are unclear. In this study, anthocyanin metabolomics and transcriptomics on the seed coats of two different colors of mung bean were performed to clarify the composition of anthocyanins, and identify transcription factors involved in regulating anthocyanin biosynthesis. In the mature stage, 23 kinds of anthocyanin compounds were identified. All anthocyanin components contents were significantly higher in seed coat of black mung bean compare with green mung bean. Transcriptome analysis suggested that most of the structural genes for anthocyanin biosynthesis and some potential regulatory genes were significantly differentially expressed. WGCNA suggested VrMYB90 was an important regulatory gene in anthocyanin biosynthesis. Arabidopsis thaliana overexpressing VrMYB90 showed significant accumulation of anthocyanins. PAL, 4CL, DFR, F3'5'H, LDOX, F3'H and UFGT were up-regulated in 35S:VrMYB90 Arabidopsis thaliana. These findings provide valuable information for understanding the synthesis mechanism of anthocyanins in black mung bean seed coats.
Drought is a major factor that limiting mung bean development. To clarify the molecular mechanism of mung bean in response to drought stress, 2 mung bean groups were established, the experimental group (drought-treated) and the control group (normal water management). With prominent difference of 2 groups in stomatal conductance, relative water content and phenotype, leaf samples were collected at 4 stages, and the physiological index of MDA, POD, chlorophyll, and soluble proteins were estimated. RNA-seq was used to obtain high quality data of samples, and differentially expressed genes were identified by DESeq2. With GO and KEGG analysis, DEGs were enriched into different classifications and pathways. WGCNA was used to detect the relationship between physiological traits and genes, and qPCR was performed to confirm the accuracy of the data. We obtained 169.49 Gb of clean data from 24 samples, and the Q30 of each date all exceeded 94%. In total, 8963 DEGs were identified at 4 stages between the control and treated samples, and the DEGs were involved in most biological processes. 1270 TFs screened from DEGs were clustered into 158 TF families, such as AP2, RLK-Pelle-DLSVA, and NAC TF families. Genes related to physiological traits were closely related to plant hormone signaling, carotenoid biosynthesis, chlorophyll metabolism, and protein processing. This paper provides a large amount of data for drought research in mung bean.
Reduced crop productivity results from altered plant physiological processes caused by dysfunctional proteins due to environmental stressors. In this study, a novel DnaJ Type-I encoding gene,
Vigna mungo, a highly consumed crop in the pan-Asian countries, is vulnerable to several biotic and abiotic stresses. Understanding the post-transcriptional gene regulatory cascades, especially alternative splicing (AS), may underpin large-scale genetic improvements to develop stress-resilient varieties. Herein, a transcriptome based approach was undertaken to decipher the genome-wide AS landscape and splicing dynamics in order to establish the intricacies of their functional interactions in various tissues and stresses. RNA sequencing followed by high-throughput computational analyses identified 54,526 AS events involving 15,506 AS genes that generated 57,405 transcripts isoforms. Enrichment analysis revealed their involvement in diverse regulatory functions and demonstrated that transcription factors are splicing-intensive, splice variants of which are expressed differentially across tissues and environmental cues. Increased expression of a splicing regulator NHP2L1/SNU13 was found to co-occur with lower intron retention events. The host transcriptome is significantly impacted by differential isoform expression of 1172 and 765 AS genes that resulted in 1227 (46.8% up and 53.2% downregulated) and 831 (47.5% up and 52.5% downregulated) transcript isoforms under viral pathogenesis and Fe
Alternative splicing (AS) is a crucial regulatory mechanism that impacts transcriptome and proteome complexity under stressful situations. Although its role in abiotic stresses is somewhat understood, our understanding of the mechanistic regulation of pre-messenger RNA splicing in plant-pathogen interaction is meager. To comprehend this unexplored immune reprogramming mechanism, transcriptome profiles of Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV)-resistant and susceptible Vigna mungo genotypes were analyzed for AS genes that may underlie the resistance mechanism. Results revealed a repertoire of AS-isoforms accumulated during pathogenic infestation, with intron retention being the most common AS mechanism. Identification of 688 differential alternatively spliced (DAS) genes in the resistant host elucidates its robust antiviral response, whereas 322 DAS genes were identified in the susceptible host. Enrichment analyses confirmed DAS transcripts pertaining to stress, signaling, and immune system pathways have undergone maximal perturbations. Additionally, a strong regulation of the splicing factors has been observed both at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. qPCR validation of candidate DAS transcripts with induced expression upon MYMIV infection demonstrated a competent immune response in the resistant background. The AS-impacted genes resulted either in partial/complete loss of functional domains or altered sensitivity to micro-RNA-mediated gene silencing. A complex regulatory module, miR7517-ATAF2, has been identified in an aberrantly spliced ATAF2 isoform that exposes an intronic miR7517 binding site, thereby suppressing the negative regulator to enhance the defense reaction. The present study establishes AS as a noncanonical immune reprogramming mechanism that operates in parallel, thereby offering an alternative strategy for developing yellow mosaic-resistant V. mungo cultivars.
Callosobruchus chinensis (Coleoptera: Fabaceae) is a worldwide pest that feeds exclusively on legumes, and is the most serious pest affecting mung beans. Usually, the insect olfactory system plays a predominant role in searching for host plants and egg-laying locations. Chemosensory proteins (CSPs), are mainly responsible for transporting specific odour molecules from the environment. In this study, we found that the CSP1 gene of adult C. chinensis displayed antennae-biased expression using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis. The binding properties of 23 mung bean volatiles were then determined through several analyses of in vitro recombinant CSP1 protein, including fluorescence competitive binding assay, homology modelling, molecular docking, and site-directed mutagenesis. Fluorescence competitive binding assays showed that CchiCSP1 protein could bind to four mung bean volatiles and was most stable at pH 7.4. After site-directed mutation of three key amino acid bases (L39, V25, and Y35), their binding affinities to each ligand were significantly decreased or lost. This indicated that these three amino acid residues may be involved in the binding of CchiCSP1 to different ligands. We further used Y-tube behavioural bioassays to find that the four mung bean volatiles had a significant attraction or repulsion response in adult C. chinensis. The above findings confirm that the CchiCSP1 protein may be involved in the response of C. chinensis to mung bean volatiles and plays an important role in olfactory-related behaviours. The four active volatiles are expected to develop into new behavioural attractants or repellents in the future.
In plants, RNA silencing is an important conserved mechanism to regulate gene expression and combat against abiotic and biotic stresses. Dicer-like (DCL) and Argonaute (AGO) proteins and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDR) are the core elements involved in gene silencing and their gene families have been explored in many plants. However, these genes and their responses to stresses have not yet been well characterized in adzuki bean. A total of 11 AGO, 7 DCL and 6 RDR proteins were identified, and phylogenetic analyses of these proteins showed that they clustered into six, four and four clades respectively. The expression patterns of these genes in susceptible or resistant adzuki bean cultivars challenged with drought, bean common mosaic virus and Podosphaera xanthii infections were further validated by quantitative RT-PCR. The different responses of these proteins under abiotic and biotic stresses indicated their specialized regulatory mechanisms. In this study, 24 genes of the DCL, AGO and RDR gene families in adzuki bean were identified, and the sequence characterization, structure of the encoded proteins, evolutionary relationship with orthologues in other legumes and gene expression patterns under drought and biotic stresses were primarily explored, which enriched our understanding of these genes in adzuki bean. Our findings provide a foundation for the comparative genomic analyses of RNA silencing elements in legume plants and further new insights into the functional complexity of RNA silencing in the response to various stresses in adzuki bean.
Cicer arietinum, Cajanus cajan, Vigna radiata, and Phaseolus vulgaris are economically important legume crops with high nutritional value. They are negatively impacted globally by different biotic and abiotic stresses. Hyperosmolality-gated calcium-permeable channels (OSCA) have been characterized as osmosensors in Arabidopsis thaliana but have not previously reported in legumes. This study provides a genome-wide identification, characterization, and comparative analysis of OSCA genes in legumes. Our study identified and characterized 13 OSCA genes in C. cajan, V. radiata, P. vulgaris, and 12 in C. arietinum, classified into four distinct clades. We found evidence to suggest that the OSCAs might be involved in the interaction between hormone signalling pathways and stress signalling pathways. Furthermore, they play a major role in plant growth and development. The expression levels of the OSCAs vary under different stress conditions in a tissue-specific manner. Our study can be used to develop a detailed understanding of stress regulatory mechanisms of the OSCA gene family in legumes.
Iron is a crucial nutrient for biological functions in plants. High-pH and calcareous soil is a major stress causing iron deficiency chlorosis (IDC) symptoms and yield losses in crops. Use of calcareous soil-tolerance genetic resources is the most effective preventative method to combat the effects of high-pH and calcareous soils. A previous study using a mungbean recombinant inbred line (RIL) population of the cross Kamphaeg Saen 2 (KPS2; IDC susceptible) × NM-10-12 identified a major quantitative trait locus (QTL), qIDC3.1, which controls resistance and explains more than 40% of IDC variation. In this study, we fine-mapped qIDC3.1 and identified an underlying candidate gene. A genome wide association analysis (GWAS) using 162 mungbean accessions identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on chromosome 6; several SNPs were associated with soil plant analysis development (SPAD) values and IDC visual scores of mungbeans planted on calcareous soil, respectively. These SNPs corresponded to qIDC3.1. Using the same RIL population as in the previous study and an advanced backcross population developed from KPS2 and IDC-resistant inbred line RIL82, qIDC3.1 was further confirmed and fine-mapped to an interval of 217 kilobases harboring five predicted genes, including LOC106764181 (VrYSL3), which encodes a yellow stripe1-like-3 (YSL3) protein, YSL3 is involved in iron deficiency resistance. Gene expression analysis revealed that VrYSL3 was highly expressed in mungbean roots. In calcareous soil, expression of VrYSL3 was significantly up-regulated, and it was more obviously upregulated in the roots of RIL82, than in those of KPS2. Sequence comparison of VrYSL3 between the RIL82 and KPS2 revealed four SNPs that result in amino acid changes in the VrYSL3 protein and a 20-bp insertion/deletion in the promoter where a cis-regulatory element resides. Transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants overexpressing VrYSL3 showed enhanced iron and zinc contents in the leaves. Taken together, these results indicate that VrYSL3 is a strong candidate gene responsible for calcareous soil resistance in mungbean.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is a legume staple widely grown across Sub-Saharan Africa and other tropical and sub-tropical regions. Considering projected climate change and global population increases, cowpea's adaptation to hot climates, resistance to drought, and nitrogen-fixing capabilities make it an especially attractive crop for facing future challenges. Despite these beneficial traits, efficient varietal improvement is challenging in cowpea due to its recalcitrance to transformation and long regeneration times. Transient gene expression assays can provide solutions to alleviate these issues as they allow researchers to test gene editing constructs before investing in the time and resource- intensive process of transformation. In this study, we developed an improved cowpea protoplast isolation protocol, a transient protoplast assay, and an agroinfiltration assay to be used for initial testing and validation of gene editing constructs and for gene expression studies. To test these protocols, we assessed the efficacy of a CRISPR-Cas9 construct containing four multiplexed single-guide RNA (sgRNA) sequences using polyethylene glycol (PEG)-mediated transformation and agroinfiltration with phytoene desaturase (PDS) as the target gene. Sanger sequencing of DNA from transformed protoplasts and agroinfiltrated cowpea leaves revealed several large deletions in the target sequences. The protoplast system and agroinfiltration protocol developed in this study provide versatile tools to test gene editing components before initiating plant transformation, thus improving the chance of using active sgRNAs and attaining the desired edits and target phenotype.
Pod dehiscence is a major source of yield loss in legumes, which is exacerbated by aridity. Disruptive mutations in "Pod indehiscent 1" (PDH1), a pod sclerenchyma-specific lignin biosynthesis gene, has been linked to significant reductions in dehiscence in several legume species. We compared syntenic PDH1 regions across 12 legumes and two outgroups to uncover key historical evolutionary trends at this important locus. Our results clarified the extent to which PDH1 orthologs are present in legumes, showing the typical genomic context surrounding PDH1 has only arisen relatively recently in certain phaseoloid species (Vigna, Phaseolus, Glycine). The notable absence of PDH1 in Cajanus cajan may be a major contributor to its indehiscent phenotype compared with other phaseoloids. In addition, we identified a novel PDH1 ortholog in Vigna angularis and detected remarkable increases in PDH1 transcript abundance during Vigna unguiculata pod development. Investigation of the shared genomic context of PDH1 revealed it lies in a hotspot of transcription factors and signaling gene families that respond to abscisic acid and drought stress, which we hypothesize may be an additional factor influencing expression of PDH1 under specific environmental conditions. Our findings provide key insights into the evolutionary history of PDH1 and lay the foundation for optimizing the pod dehiscence role of PDH1 in major and understudied legume species.
Vigna radiata L., an imperative legume crop of Pakistan, faces hordes of damage due to fungi; infecting host tissues by the appressorium. The use of natural compounds is an innovative concern to manage mung-bean fungal diseases. The bioactive secondary metabolites of Penicillium species are well documented for their strong fungi-static ability against many pathogens. Presently, one-month-old aqueous culture filtrates of Penicillium janczewskii, P. digitatum, P. verrucosum, P. crustosum, and P. oxalicum were evaluated to check the antagonistic effect of different dilutions (0, 10, 20, … and 60%). There was a significant reduction of around 7-38%, 46-57%, 46-58%, 27-68%, and 21-51% in Phoma herbarum dry biomass production due to P. janczewskii, P. digitatum, P. verrucosum, P. crustosum, and P. oxalicum, respectively. Inhibition constants determined by a regression equation demonstrated the most significant inhibition by P. janczewskii. Finally, using real-time reverse transcription PCR (qPCR) the effect of P. Janczewskii metabolites was determined on the transcript level of StSTE12 gene involved in the development and penetration of appressorium. The expression pattern of the StSTE12 gene was determined by percent Knockdown (%KD) expression that was found to be decreased i.e. 51.47, 43.22, 40.67, 38.01, 35.97, and 33.41% for P. herbarum with an increase in metabolites concentrations viz., 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 and 60% metabolites, respectively. In silico studies were conducted to analyze the role of Ste12 a transcriptional factor in the MAPK signaling pathway. The present study concludes a strong fungicidal potential of Penicillium species against P. herbarum. Further studies to isolate the effective fungicidal constituents of Penicillium species through GCMS analysis and determination of their role in signaling pathways are requisite.
WRKY-, PHD-, and MYB-like proteins are three important types of transcription factors in mungbeans, and play an important role in development and stress resistance. The genes' structures and characteristics were clearly reported and were shown to contain the conservative WRKYGQK heptapeptide sequence, Cys4-His-cys3 zinc binding motif, and HTH (helix) tryptophan cluster W structure, respectively. Knowledge on the response of these genes to salt stress is largely unknown. To address this issue, 83 VrWRKYs, 47 VrPHDs, and 149 VrMYBs were identified by using comparative genomics, transcriptomics, and molecular biology methods in mungbeans. An intraspecific synteny analysis revealed that the three gene families had strong co-linearity and an interspecies synteny analysis showed that mungbean and
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are acquired bone marrow malignant disorders characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis, resulting from a complex interaction between genetic and epigenetic mutations, alterations of the marrow microenvironment, and the immune system. In 2001, the World Health Organization (WHO) proposed a classification that integrates morphologic and genetic information, considering the MDS with ring sideroblasts (MDS-RS) as a distinct entity. Considering the strong association between MDS-RS and SF3B1 mutation and its importance in the development of MDS, the last WHO classification replaced the prior entity of MDS-RS with MDS with SF3B1 mutation. Several studies were performed to explore this genotype-phenotype correlation. Mutant SF3B1 protein deregulates the expression of genes implicated in developing hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Of paramount importance are PPOX and ABCB7 involved in iron metabolism. Another essential role in hemopoiesis is played by the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) receptor. This gene exerts its effects on SMAD pathways, regulating hematopoiesis through effects on balancing proliferation and apoptosis cell inactivity, differentiation, and migration. Luspatercept (ACE-536) is a soluble fusion protein that inhibits molecules in the TGF-β superfamily. Since its structure resembles the TGF-β family receptor, it catches TGF-β superfamily ligands before binding to the receptor, resulting in reduced activation of SMAD signaling, thus enabling erythroid maturation. Luspatercept was investigated in the phase III trial MEDALIST, showing promising efficacy in treating anemia compared to placebo. Nowadays, further studies are needed to explore the real potential of luspatercept, investigating the biological features likely associated with treatment response, the potential use in combination treatments, and its role in the treatment of naïve MDS.
It is an important way for healthy Selenium (Se) supplement to transform exogenous Se into organic Se through crops. In the present study,
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is a crucial crop for regions of the world that are prone to both heat and drought; however, the phytotoxic cowpea aphid (Aphis craccivora) impairs plant physiology at low population levels. Both antibiotic and antixenotic forms of resistance to the aphid have been mapped to two quantitative trait loci (QTLs) and near isogenic lines (NILs). The molecular mechanism for this resistance response remains unknown. To understand the genes underlying susceptibility and resistance, two cowpea lines with shared heritage were infested along a time course and characterized for transcriptome variation. Aphids remodeled cowpea development and signaling relative to host plant resistance and the duration of feeding, with resource acquisition and mobilization determining, in part, susceptibility to aphid attack. Major differences between the susceptible and resistant cowpea were identified including two regions of interest housing the most genetic differences between the lines. Candidate genes enabling aphid resistance include both conventional resistance genes (e.g., leucine rich repeat protein kinases) as well as multiple novel genes with no known orthologues. Our results demonstrate that feeding by the cowpea aphid globally remodels the transcriptome of cowpea, but how this occurs depends on both the duration of feeding and host-plant resistance. Constitutive expression profiles of the resistant genotype link aphid resistance to a finely-tuned resource management strategy that ultimately reduces damage (e.g., chlorosis) and delays cell turnover, while impeding aphid performance. Thus, aphid resistance in cowpea is a complex, multigene response that involves crosstalk between primary and secondary metabolism.
Novel function and mechanism of a PNP molecule VaEG45 from adzuki bean involved in plant immunity. Plant natriuretic peptides (PNPs) can affect a broad spectrum of physiological responses in plants acting as peptidic signaling molecules. However, PNPs may play additional roles in plant immunity. Our previous transcriptome data of adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) in response to Uromyces vignae infection revealed association of PNP-encoding gene VaEG45 with U. vignae resistance. To determine the function of VaEG45 in disease resistance, we cloned the 589 bp nucleotide sequence of VaEG45 containing 2 introns, encoding a putative 13.68 kDa protein that is 131 amino acids in length. We analyzed expression in different resistant cultivars of V. angularis and found significant induction of VaEG45 expression after U. vignae infection. Transient expression of VaEG45 improved tobacco resistance against Botrytis cinerea. We next analyzed the mechanism by which VaEG45 protects plants from fungal infection by determination of the biological activity of the prokaryotic expressed VaEG45. The results showed that the fusion protein VaEG45 can significantly inhibit urediospores germination of U. vignae, mycelial growth, and the infection of tobacco by B. cinerea. Further analysis revealed that VaEG45 exhibits β-1, 3-glucanase activity. These findings uncover the function of a novel PNP molecule VaEG45 and provide new evidence about the mechanism of PNPs in plant immunity.
Priestia species isolated from the cowpea rhizosphere altered the transcriptome of cowpea roots by colonization and enhanced nutrient uptake, antioxidant mechanisms, and photosynthesis, protecting cowpea from drought and nutrient deficiency. Cowpea is a significant grain legume crop primarily grown in sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, and South America. Drought and nutrient deficiency affect the growth and yield of cowpea. To address this challenge, we studied the phyto-beneficial effects of stress-tolerant rhizobacteria on the biomass yield of cowpea under water- and nutrient-deficit conditions. Among the bacteria isolated, two rhizobacillus genotypes, C8 (Priestia filamentosa; basonym: Bacillus filamentosus) and C29 (Priestia aryabhattai; basonym: Bacillus aryabhattai) were evaluated for the improvement of seed germination and growth of cowpea under stress. Our study revealed that C8 protected cowpea from stress by facilitating phosphorus and potassium uptake, protecting it from oxidative damage, reducing transpiration, and enhancing CO
New therapeutic strategies for glioblastoma treatment, especially tackling the tumour's glioblastoma stem cell (GSC) component, are an urgent medical need. Recently, mitochondrial translation inhibition has been shown to affect GSC growth, clonogenicity, and self-renewal capability, therefore becoming an attractive therapeutic target. The combination of streptogramins B and A antibiotics quinupristin/dalfopristin (Q/D), which inhibits mitochondrial ribosome function, affects GSCs more effectively in vitro than the standard of care temozolomide. Here, docking calculations based on the cryo-EM structure of the Q/D-bound mitochondrial ribosome have been used to develop a series of streptogramin A derivatives. We obtained twenty-two new and known molecules starting from the dalfopristin and virginiamycin M1 scaffolds. A structure-activity relationship refinement was performed to evaluate the capability of these compounds to suppress GSC growth and inhibit mitochondrial translation, either alone or in combination with quinupristin. Finally, quantitative ultra HPLC-mass spectrometry allowed us to assess the cell penetration of some of these derivatives. Among all, the fluorine derivatives of dalfopristin and virginiamycin M1, (16R)-1e and (16R)-2e, respectively, and flopristin resulted in being more potent than the corresponding lead compounds and penetrating to a greater extent into the cells. We, therefore, propose these three compounds for further evaluation in vivo as antineoplastic agents.
Bradyrhizobium guangxiense CCBAU53363 efficiently nodulates peanut but exhibits incompatible interaction with mung bean. By comparing the common
It has been shown that multidrug and toxic compound extrusion/detoxification (MATE/DTX) family transporters are involved in the regulation of plant development and stress response. Here, we characterized the
Mung bean is an important grain-legume crop and its sprout is an economical and nutrient vegetable for the public, but the genetic regulation of anthocyanin production, which is an antioxidant in mung bean, remains elusive. In our study, we characterized a subgroup (SG) 6 R2R3-MYB anthocyanin activator VrMYB90 and a SG 4 R2R3-MYB anthocyanin repressor VrMYB3, which synergistically function in regulating anthocyanin synthesis with VrbHLHA transcription factor. The overexpressed VrMYB90 protein activates the expression of VrMYB3 and VrbHLHA in mung bean hair roots, and also promotes VrDFR and VrANS transcript levels by directly binding to the corresponding promoters at specific motifs (CAACTG and CCGTTG). VrMYB90 interacts with VrbHLHA to enhance its regulatory activities on VrDFR and VrANS. Furthermore, the interaction between VrMYB3 with VrMYB90 and VrbHLHA could result in the restriction of anthocyanin synthesis to prevent excessive anthocyanin accumulation. Our results demonstrate that the VrMYB90 protein, in conjunction with VrMYB3 and VrbHLHA, forms a key regulatory module to fine-tune anthocyanin synthesis in mung bean.
Cowpea is sensitive to drought and heat stress, particularly at the reproductive stages of development. Both stresses limit growth and yield, and their effect is more devastating when occurring concurrently. Dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2A (DREB2A) is an important signaling hub integrating information about two different abiotic stresses, drought and heat. We identified VuDREB2A as a canonical DREB ortholog in cowpea, activating downstream stress-responsive genes by binding to DREs in their promoter. Post-translational modification of a negative regulatory domain (NRD) within the VuDREB2A protein prevents its degradation. Targeted deletion of the NRD produces a stable and constitutively active form VuDREB2A-CA. However, there is very little evidence of its practical utility under field conditions. This study overexpressed the VuDREB2A-CA in a popular cowpea variety and conducted drought- and heat-tolerance experiments across various stress regimes. Transgenic cowpea exhibited significant tolerance with consistently higher yield when exposed to over 30-d drought stress and 3-d exposure to high temperature (28 °C-52 °C) without any pleiotropic alterations. The transgenic lines showed higher photosynthetic efficiency, osmotic adjustment, antioxidant defense, thermotolerance, and significantly higher survival and increased biomass than the wild type. Late embryogenesis abundant 5, heat shock protein 70, dehydrin, mitogen-activated protein kinase 2/4, isoflavonoid reductase, and myoinositol phosphate synthase were upregulated in transgenic lines under drought and heat stress. Through transcriptome analysis of the transgenic lines, we found significant up-regulation of various stress-responsive cowpea genes, having DRE in their promoter. Our results suggest that overexpression of VuDREB2A could improve cowpea production under drought and high temperatures.
Adzuki bean is an important legume crop originating in temperate regions, with photoperiod in sensitivity being a key factor in its latitudinal adaptation. The
Broad diversity of flowers in Fabaceae provides a good system to investigate development and evolution of floral symmetry in higher plants. Many studies have demonstrated a conserved mechanism controlling development of zygomorphic flower during last decades. However, the molecular basis of how asymmetric flower established is largely unknown. In this study, we characterized mutants named
NAC (NAM/ATAF1/2/CUC2) transcription factors are central switches of growth and stress responses in plants. However, unpredictable interspecies conservation of function and regulatory targets makes the well-studied NAC orthologs inapt for pulse engineering. The knowledge of suitable NAC candidates in hardy pulses like cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) is still in infancy, hence warrants immediate biotechnological intervention. Here, we showed that overexpression of two native NAC genes (VuNAC1 and VuNAC2) promoted germinative, vegetative, and reproductive growth and conferred multiple abiotic stress tolerance in a commercial cowpea variety. The transgenic lines displayed increased leaf area, thicker stem, nodule-rich denser root system, early flowering, higher pod production (∼3.2-fold and ∼2.1-fold), and greater seed weight (10.3% and 6.0%). In contrast, transient suppression of VuNAC1/2 caused severe growth retardation and flower inhibition. The overexpressor lines showed remarkable tolerance to major yield-declining terminal stresses, such as drought, salinity, heat, and cold, and recovered growth and seed production by boosting photosynthetic activity, water use efficiency, membrane integrity, Na
Anthocyanins are water-soluble pigments present in several tissues/parts of plants. The pigments provide color and are wildly known for health benefits for human, insect attraction for plant pollination, and stress resistance in plants. Anthocyanin content variations in mungbean [
The main aim of this study was to identify the bZIP family members in mung bean and explore their expression patterns under several abiotic stresses, with the overarching goal of elucidating their biological functions. Results identified 75 bZIP members in mung bean, which were unevenly distributed in the chromosomes (1-11), and all had a highly conserved bZIP domain. Phylogenetic analysis divided the members into 10 subgroups, with members in the same subgroup having similar structure and motif. The
The flowering characteristics of adzuki bean are influenced by several environmental factors. Light is an important ecological factor that induces flowering in adzuki bean, but to date, there have been few reports on the transcriptomic features of photoperiodic regulation of adzuki bean flowering. This study is based on RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) techniques to elucidate the expression of light-related regulatory genes under short-day photoperiod inducement of adzuki bean flowering, providing an important theoretical basis for its accelerated breeding. Short-day photoperiod inducement of 10 h was conducted for 5 day, 10 day, and 15 day periods on "Tang shan hong xiao dou" varieties, which are more sensitive to short-day photoperiod conditions than the other varieties. Plants grown under natural light (14.5 h) for 5 days, 10 days, and 15 days were used as controls to compare the progress of flower bud differentiation and flowering characteristics. The topmost unfolded functional leaves were selected for transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. The short-day photoperiod inducement promoted flower bud differentiation and advanced flowering time in adzuki bean. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 5,608 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) for the combination of CK-5d vs. SD-5d, CK-10d vs. SD-10d, and CK-15d vs. SD-15d. The three groups of the DEGs were analyzed using the Gene Ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genomes and Genomes (KEGG) databases; the DEGs were associated with flowering, photosystem, and the circadian rhythm and were mainly concentrated in the hormone signaling and metabolism, circadian rhythm, and antenna protein pathways; So, 13 light-related genes across the three pathways were screened for differential and expression characteristics. Through the functional annotations of orthologs, these genes were related to flowering, which were supposed to be good candidate genes in adzuki bean. The findings provide a deep understanding of the molecular mechanisms of adzuki bean flowering in response to short-day photoperiod inducement, which laid a foundation for the functional verification of genes in the next step, and provide an important reference for the molecular breeding of adzuki bean.
Mung bean is a short-duration and essential food crop owing to its cash prominence in Asia. Mung bean seeds are rich in protein, fiber, antioxidants, and phytonutrients. The NAC transcription factors (TFs) family is a large plant-specific family, participating in tissue development regulation and abiotic and biotic stresses. In this study, we perform genome-wide comparisons of VrNAC with their homologs from Arabidopsis. We identified 81 NAC transcription factors (TFs) in mung bean genome and named as per their chromosome location. A phylogenetic analysis revealed that VrNACs are broadly distributed in nine groups. Moreover, we identified 20 conserved motifs across the VrNACs highlighting their roles in different biological process. Based on the gene structure of the putative VrNAC and segmental duplication events might be playing a vital role in the expansion of mung bean genome. A comparative phylogenetic analysis of mung bean NAC together with homologs from Arabidopsis allowed us to classify NAC genes into 13 groups, each containing several orthologs and paralogs. Gene ontology (GO) analysis categorized the VrNACs into biological process, cellular components and molecular functions, explaining the functions in different plant physiology processes. A gene co-expression network analysis identified 173 genes involved in the transcriptional network of putative VrNAC genes. We also investigated how miRNAs potentially target VrNACs and shape their interactions with proteins. VrNAC1.4 (Vradi01g03390.1) was targeted by the Vra-miR165 family, including 9 miRNAs. Vra-miR165 contributes to leaf development and drought tolerance. We also performed qRT-PCR on 22 randomly selected VrNAC genes to assess their expression patterns in the NM-98 genotype, widely known for being tolerant to drought and bacterial leaf spot disease. This genome-wide investigation of VrNACs provides a unique resource for further detailed investigations aimed at predicting orthologs functions and what role the play under abiotic and biotic stress, with the ultimate aim to improve mung bean production under diverse environmental conditions.
Phenolic compounds are one of the wholesome substances of mung bean sprouts, showing numerous health-promoting functions. Here, effects of sucrose on phenolic compounds profiles of mung bean sprouts were investigated. Results showed that the content and composition of phenolic compounds were significantly altered by 1‰ and 5‰ sucrose, respectively. The antioxidant capacity was significantly improved by sucrose. Based on metabolomics, 251 metabolites were detected, of which 106 were phenolic compounds. Correlation analysis showed 21 phenolics were positively correlated with antioxidant capacity. The changes in phenolic composition and antioxidant capacity after sucrose treatment were mainly due to the enrichment of phenolic biosynthesis pathways. Moreover, the gene expression and enzyme activity analysis of key phenolic biosynthetic genes contributed to elucidate the phenolic profile under sucrose treatment. In summary, mung bean sprouts are promising sources of dietary phenolic compounds and sucrose treatment is a good process to produce phenolic-rich mung bean sprouts.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek) is an important legume crop of Asia. Salt concentrations typically causes major yield reductions in mungbean. Although the biochemical and genetic basis of salt tolerance-related gene are well studied in Arabidopsis and soybean, limited information concerning the salt tolerance-related genes in mungbean. To address this issue, we mined salt tolerance related genes using the survival rate trait and 160,1405 SNPs in 112 mungbean accessions. As a result, VrFRO8 significantly associated with salt-stress were identified in the GWAS analysis. The candidate gene VrFRO8 was evidenced by comparative genomics, transcriptome and RT-qPCR analysis. The expression level of VrFRO8 was significantly up-regulated (P-value = 0.001) after salt treatment compared with the control group. Moreover, 188 genes and 158 transcription factors related to salt-stress signal transduction pathway were mined, and 18 genes (18/188) had higher expression level in the salt-tolerant varieties than salt-sensitive varieties. And, the function of VrFRO8 was predicted in mungbean, the protein interaction between VrFRO8 and seven related-genes were found by molecular structure analysis. VrFRO8 might reduce SOD contents by influence Fe
It is essential to develop high salt-tolerant rice varieties in order to cultivate the salt-affected lands. In this study, Na
Biofortification is a method that improves the nutritional value of food crops through conventional plant breeding. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of intra-amniotic administration of soluble extracts from zinc (Zn) biofortified and Zn standard cowpea ( Seven treatment groups were utilized: (1) No Injection; (2) 18 MΩ H2O; (3) 50 mg/mL Inulin; (4) 50 mg/mL BRS Pajeú soluble extract (Zn standard); (5) 50 mg/mL BRS Aracê soluble extract (Zn biofortified); (6) 50 mg/mL BRS Imponente soluble extract (Zn biofortified); (7) 50 mg/mL BRS Xiquexique soluble extract (Zn biofortified). Treatment groups with BRS Imponente and BRS Xiquexique reduced the abundance of This study demonstrates the potential nutritional benefit of standard and biofortified cowpea treatment groups to improve intestinal morphology, BBM functionality, inflammation, and gut microbiota, with the highest effect of BRS Xiquexique soluble extracts to improve assessed cecal microflora populations and intestinal morphology.
A variety of pesticides are often used in agricultural management to control target pests but may trigger disruptions in the metabolism of nontarget organisms, ultimately affecting crop quality. Acetamiprid (ACE) and cyromazine (CYR) are two frequently used insecticides on cowpea, so it is critical to understand whether these two insecticides cause metabolic disorders in cowpea quality changes and the mechanism by which they do so. Here, we used metabolomic and transcriptomic methods to explore the mechanisms of the effects of ACE, CYR, and their mixture (MIX) on cowpea. In this study, ACE, CYR and MIX had no significant effects on plant biomass or growth status but decreased the contents of starch, soluble protein, and total flavonoids. All treatments reduced the total flavonoid content, but MIX showed the largest reduction of 10.02%. Metabolomic and transcriptomic analyses revealed that ACE markedly affected amino acid metabolism, and CYR and MIX affected sugar metabolism and flavonoid synthesis pathways. ACE and CYR reduced the levels of alanine, glutamic acid, isoleucine and phenylalanine and the expression of amino acid-related genes in cowpea, while MIX significantly increased the levels of most amino acids. All pesticide treatments reduced saccharide levels and related genes, with the most pronounced reduction in the MIX treatment. Exposure to ACE decreased the content of naringenin chalcone and quercetin and increased the content of anthocyanins in cowpeas, while MIX caused a significant decrease in the contents of quercetin and anthocyanins. According to the current study, single and mixed pesticides had different effects on the active ingredients of cowpea, with MIX causing the most significant decrease in the metabolite content of cowpea. These results provide important insights from a molecular perspective on how neonicotinoids and triazine insecticides affect cowpea metabolism.
CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED 1 like (CCA1L) proteins are important components that participate in plant growth and development, and now have been characterized in multiple plant species. However, information on mungbean CCA1L genes is limited. In this study, we identified 27 VrCCA1L genes from the mungbean genome. VrCCA1L genes were unevenly distributed on 10 of the 11 chromosomes and showed one tandem and two interchromosomal duplication events. Two distinct kinds of conserved MYB domains, MYB 1 and MYB 2, were found, and the conserved SHAQK(Y/F) F sequence was found at the C terminus of each MYB 2 domain. The VrCCA1Ls displayed a variety of exon-intron organizations, and 24 distinct motifs were found among these genes. Based on phylogenetic analysis, VrCCA1L proteins were classified into five groups; group I contained the most members, with 11 VrCCA1Ls. VrCCA1L promoters contained different types and numbers of cis-acting elements, and VrCCA1Ls showed different expression levels in different tissues. The VrCCA1Ls also displayed distinct expression patterns under different photoperiod conditions throughout the day in leaves. VrCCA1L26 shared greatest homology to Arabidopsis CCA1 and LATE ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL (LHY). It delayed the flowering time in Arabidopsis by affecting the expression levels of CONSTANS (CO), FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT), and SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CONSTANS 1 (SOC1). We identified and characterized 27 VrCCA1L genes from mungbean genome, and investigated their spatio-temporal expression patterns. Further analysis revealed that VrCCA1L26 delayed flowering time in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Our results provide useful information for further functional characterization of the VrCCA1L genes.
Sugar transporter proteins (STPs) are membrane proteins required for sugar transport throughout cellular membranes. They plays an imperative role in sugar transmission across the plant and determinants of crop yield. However, the analysis of these important STPs Sugars Will Eventually be Exported Transporters (SWEET) family in legumes is still not well-documented and remains unclear. Therefore, the in-silico analysis of STPs has been performed to unravel their cellular, molecular, and structural composition in legume species. This study conducted a systematic search for STPs in Cajanus cajan using the Blastp algorithm to understand its molecular basis. Here, we performed a comprehensive analysis of 155 identified SWEET proteins across 12 legumes species, namely (Cajanus cajan, Glycine max, Vigna radiate, Vigna angularis, Medicago truncatula, Lupinus angustifolius, Glycine soja, Spatholobus suberectus, Cicer arietinum, Arachis ipaensis, Arachis hypogaea, Arachis duranensis). The amino acid composition and motif analysis revealed that SWEET proteins are rich in essential amino acids such as leucine, valine, isoleucine, phenylalanine, and serine while less profuse in glutamine, tryptophan, cysteine, and histidine. A total of four main conserved motifs of SWEET proteins are also highly abundant in these amino acids. The present study deciphered the details on primary physicochemical properties, secondary, tertiary structure, and phylogenetic analysis of SWEETs protein. Majorities of SWEET proteins (72.26%) are in stable form with an average instability index of 36.5%, and it comprises a higher fraction of positively charged amino acid Arg + Lys residues. Secondary structure analysis shown that these proteins are richer in alpha-helix (40%) than extended strand (30%) and random coil (25%), respectively. Furthermore, to infer their mechanism at a structural and functional level which play an essential roles in growth, development, and stress responses. This study will be useful to examine photosynthetic productivity, embryo sugar content, seed quality, and yield enhancement in Fabaceae for a sustainable source of essential amino acids and carbon source.
The underutilized species Vigna aconitifolia (Moth Bean) is an important legume crop cultivated in semi-arid conditions and is valued for its seeds for their high protein content. It is also a popular green manure cover crop that offers many agronomic benefits including nitrogen fixation and soil nutrients. Despite its economic potential, genomic resources for this crop are scarce and there is limited knowledge on the developmental process of this plant at a molecular level. In the present communication, we have studied the molecular mechanisms that regulate plant development in V. aconitifolia, with a special focus on flower and seed development. We believe that this study will greatly enrich the genomic resources for this plant in form of differentially expressed genes, transcription factors, and genic molecular markers. We have performed the de novo transcriptome assembly using six types of tissues from various developmental stages of Vigna aconitifolia (var. RMO-435), namely, leaves, roots, flowers, pods, and seed tissue in the early and late stages of development, using the Illumina NextSeq platform. We assembled the transcriptome to get 150938 unigenes with an average length of 937.78 bp. About 79.9% of these unigenes were annotated in public databases and 12839 of those unigenes showed a significant match in the KEGG database. Most of the unigenes displayed significant differential expression in the late stages of seed development as compared with leaves. We annotated 74082 unigenes as transcription factors and identified 12096 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) in the genic regions of V.aconitifolia. Digital expression analysis revealed specific gene activities in different tissues which were validated using Real-time PCR analysis. The Vigna aconitifolia transcriptomic resources generated in this study provide foundational resources for gene discovery with respect to various developmental stages. This study provides the first comprehensive analysis revealing the genes involved in molecular as well as metabolic pathways that regulate seed development and may be responsible for the unique nutritive values of moth bean seeds. Hence, this study would serve as a foundation for characterization of candidate genes which would not only provide novel insights into understanding seed development but also provide resources for improved moth bean and related species genetic enhancement.
Late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins are identified in many crops for their response and role in adaptation to various abiotic stresses, such as drought, salinity, and temperature. The
In plants, RNA interference (RNAi) is triggered by double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). Accordingly, various RNA silencing technologies involving hpRNA, artificial microRNA (miRNA), and virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) are used for controlling the expression of genes. Such manipulations help understanding gene functions and crop improvement biotechnology. A typical hpRNA construct is comprised of an intron splicable perfect inverted repeat of the target gene sequences under the control of a strong promoter. Geminiviruses, especially Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV) cause devastating diseases in legume plants including cowpea, incurring severe crop loss. RNAi, involving hpRNA construct as transgene, is used to control these diseases at the early stages of geminivirus infection in the host, preventing symptom development and viral DNA accumulation. In this chapter, we describe a detailed protocol for the identification of geminivirus isolates from the filed grown cowpea plants, characterization of virus isolates under the laboratory conditions, design and construct RNAi vectors for effective suppression of viral target genes, and consequent development of transgenic cowpea using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation protocol. These transgenics are subsequently evaluated for resistance to MYMIV.
Chewing herbivores activate plant defense responses through a combination of mechanical wounding and elicitation by herbivore-associated molecular patterns (HAMPs). HAMPs are wound response amplifiers; however, specific defense outputs may also exist that strictly require HAMP-mediated defense signaling. To investigate HAMP-mediated signaling and defense responses, we characterized cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) transcriptome changes following elicitation by inceptin, a peptide HAMP common in Lepidoptera larvae oral secretions. Following inceptin treatment, we observed large-scale reprogramming of the transcriptome consistent with three different response categories: (i) amplification of mechanical wound responses, (ii) temporal extension through accelerated or prolonged responses, and (iii) examples of inceptin-specific elicitation and suppression. At both early and late timepoints, namely 1 and 6 h, large sets of transcripts specifically accumulated following inceptin elicitation. Further early inceptin-regulated transcripts were classified as reversing changes induced by wounding alone. Within key signaling- and defense-related gene families, inceptin-elicited responses included target subsets of wound-induced transcripts. Transcripts displaying the largest inceptin-elicited fold changes included transcripts encoding terpene synthases (TPSs) and peroxidases (POXs) that correspond with induced volatile production and increased POX activity in cowpea. Characterization of inceptin-elicited cowpea defenses via heterologous expression in Nicotiana benthamiana demonstrated that specific cowpea TPSs and POXs were able to confer terpene emission and the reduced growth of beet armyworm (Spodoptera exigua) herbivores, respectively. Collectively, our present findings in cowpea support a model where HAMP elicitation both amplifies concurrent wound responses and specifically contributes to the activation of selective outputs associated with direct and indirect antiherbivore defenses.
Chilling injury of mung bean (Vigna radiata (L.)) during the blooming and podding stages is a major agricultural threat in Northeast China. Uniconazole (UNZ) can alleviate water deficit stress in soybean and waterlogging stress in mung bean. However, there has been no report on the effect of UNZ application on the growth and transcriptomic profile of mung bean under chilling stress. UNZ application before chilling stress at the R1 stage alleviated the decline in mung bean yield. UNZ delayed the decrease in leaf chlorophyll content under chilling stress at the R1 stage and accelerated the increase in leaf chlorophyll content during the recovery period. Eighteen separate RNA-Seq libraries were generated from RNA samples collected from leaves exposed to six different treatment schemes. The numbers of DEGs specific for UNZ treatment between D1 + S vs. D1 and D4 + S vs. D4 were 708 and 810, respectively. GO annotations showed that photosynthesis genes were obviously enriched among the genes affected by chilling stress and UNZ application. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis indicated that 4 pathways (cutin, suberin and wax biosynthesis; photosynthesis; porphyrin and chlorophyll metabolism; and ribosome) were downregulated, while plant-pathogen interaction was upregulated, by chilling stress. UNZ application effectively prevented the further downregulation of the gene expression of members of these 4 KEGG pathways under chilling stress. UNZ application effectively delayed the decrease in photosynthetic pigment content under chilling stress and accelerated the increase in photosynthetic pigment content during the recovery period, thus effectively limiting the decline in mung bean yield. UNZ application effectively prevented the further downregulation of the gene expression of members of 4 KEGG pathways under chilling stress and increased mung bean tolerance to chilling stress.
Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is one of the most tolerant legume crops to drought and salt stresses. WRKY transcription factor (TF) family members stand out among plant transcriptional regulators related to abiotic stress tolerance. However, little information is currently available on the expression of the cowpea WRKY gene family (VuWRKY) in response to water deficit. Thus, we analyzed genomic and transcriptomic data from cowpea to identify VuWRKY members and characterize their structure and transcriptional response under root dehydration stress. Ninety-two complete VuWRKY genes were found in the cowpea genome based on their domain characteristics. They were clustered into three groups: I (15 members), II (58), and III (16), while three genes were unclassified. Domain analysis of the encoded proteins identified four major variants of the conserved heptapeptide motif WRKYGQK. In silico analysis of VuWRKY gene promoters identified eight candidate binding motifs of cis-regulatory elements, regulated mainly by six TF families associated with abiotic stress responses. Ninety-seven VuWRKY modulated splicing variants associated with 55 VuWRKY genes were identified via RNA-Seq analysis available at the Cowpea Genomics Consortium (CpGC) database. qPCR analyses showed that 22 genes are induced under root dehydration, with VuWRKY18, 21, and 75 exhibiting the most significant induction levels. Given their central role in activating signal transduction cascades in abiotic stress response, the data provide a foundation for the targeted modification of specific VuWRKY family members to improve drought tolerance in this important climate-resilient legume in the developing world and beyond.
Mungbean yellow mosaic virus (MYMV) disease is a significant constraint for blackgram production. The present study employed a mapping population derived from a cross between susceptible (MDU 1) and resistant (TU 68) genotypes to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) associated with MYMV disease resistance in addition to bruchine resistance loci identified from the previous study. Phenotyping was carried out in F2 generation under the disease spreader row method at field condition. Disease score observations were carried out 60 days after sowing (DAS). The chi-square goodness of fit test revealed inhibitory gene action with two genes controlling the expression of resistance to MYMV disease. However, QTL analysis revealed one major QTL region, i.e.
Shading stress strongly limits the effective growth of plants. Understanding how plant morphogenesis and physiological adaptation are generated in response to the reduced low light conditions is important for food crop development. In this study, two mung bean (
We analyze the application filed for the marketing and cultivation of genetically engineered Bt cowpea (event AAT 709A) approved in Nigeria in 2019. Cowpea (
Cadmium (Cd) accumulation in agricultural soils constitutes a serious problem for crop yields and food safety. It is known that proline (Pro) can rapidly accumulate in plant tissues in response to abiotic stress. To analyze the potential protective effect of Pro accumulation against Cd toxicity, we compared the response to Cd stress of wild-type (WT)
Multiple lines of evidence indicate that solar UV-B light acts as an important environmental signal in plants, regulating various cellular and metabolic activities, gene expression, growth and development. Here, we show that low levels of UV-B (4.0 kJ m-2) significantly influence plant response during early seedling development in the tropical legume crop Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek. Exposure to low doses of UV-B showed relatively less growth inhibition yet remarkably enhanced lateral root formation in seedlings. Both low and high (8.0 kJ m-2) doses of UV-B treatment induced DNA double-strand breaks and activated the SOG1-related ATM-ATR-mediated DNA damage response pathway. These effects led to G2-M-phase arrest with a compromised expression of the key cell cycle regulators, including CDKB1;1, CDKB2;1 and CYCB1;1, respectively. However, along with these effects, imbibitional exposure of seeds to a low UV-B dose resulted in enhanced accumulation of FZR1/CCS52A, E2Fa and WEE1 kinase and prominent induction of endoreduplication in 7-day-old seedlings. Low dose of UV-B mediated phenotypical responses, while the onset of endoreduplication appeared to be regulated at least in part via UV-B induced reactive oxygen species accumulation. Transcriptome analyses further revealed a network of co-regulated genes associated with DNA repair, cell cycle regulation and oxidative stress response pathways that are activated upon exposure to low doses of UV-B.
Due to drought stress, the growth, distribution, and production of mungbean is severely restricted. Previous study combining physiological and transcriptomic data indicated different genotypes of mungbean exhibited variable responses when exposed to drought stress. Aside from the genetic variation, the modifications of environmentally induced epigenetics alterations on mungbean drought-stress responses were still elusive. In this study, firstly, we compared the drought tolerance capacity at seedling stage by detecting physiological parameters in two contrasting genotypes wild mungbean 61 and cultivar 70 in response to drought stress. We found that wild mungbean 61 showed lower level of MDA and higher levels of POD and CAT, suggesting wild mungbean 61 exhibited stronger drought resistance. Transcriptomic analysis indicated totally 2859 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were detected when 70 compared with 61 (C70 vs C61), and the number increased to 3121 in the comparison of drought-treated 70 compared with drought-treated 61 (D70 vs D61). In addition, when drought-treated 61 and 70 were compared with their controls, the DEGs were 1117 and 185 respectively, with more down-regulated DEGs than up-regulated in D61 vs C61, which was opposite in D70 vs C70. Interestingly, corresponding to this, after drought stress, more hypermethylated differentially methylated regions (DMRs) in 61 were detected and more hypomethylated DMRs in 70 were detected. Further analysis suggested that the main variations between 61 and 70 existed in CHH methylation in promoter. Moreover, the preference of methylation status alterations in D61 vs C61 and D70 vs C70 also fell in CHH sequence context. Further analysis of the correlation between DMRs and DEGs indicated in both D61 vs C61 and D70 vs C70, the DMRs in gene body was significantly negatively correlated with DEGs. The physiological parameters in this research suggested that wild mungbean 61 was more resistant to drought stress, with more hypermethylated DMRs and less hypomethylated DMRs after drought stress, corresponding to more down-regulated DEGs than up-regulated DEGs. Among the three DNA methylation contexts CG, CHG, and CHH, asymmetric CHH contexts were more dynamic and prone to be altered by drought stress and genotypic variations.
In a breeding program, studies of genotypic and phenotypic relationships among agricultural crop traits are useful to design, evaluate, and develop selection criteria for desirable traits. Using path coefficient analysis, the present study was executed to estimate the phenotypic, genotypic, and environmental correlation coefficients between yield and yield-related traits and to determine the direct and indirect effects of yield-related traits on yield per plant. A total of 30 genotypes of Vigna subterranea were studied under tropical conditions at two sites over two planting seasons (considered as four environments). The experiment at each site used a randomized complete block design with three replicates. Data were collected on vegetative and yield component attributes. Based on analysis of variance, pooled results showed that there were positive and highly significant differences (p ≤ 0.01) among the 30 genotypes for all attributes studied. Highly significant and positive strong correlation at phenotypic level was observed for dry seed weight (0.856), hundred seed weight (0.754), fresh pod weight (0.789), and total pod weight (0.626) with yield in kg per hectare, while moderate positive correlations were observed for harvest cut (0.360) and days to maturity (0.356). However, a perfect positive correlation was observed for the dry weight of pods with seed yield. In contrast, days to 50% flowering (- 0.350) showed a negative significant relationship with yield per hectare. The dried pod weight attribute (1.00) had a high positive direct effect on yield. Fresh pod weight had the greatest indirect effect on yield per hectare, followed by the number of total pods by dry pod weight. As a result, dry pod weight, hundred seed weight, number of total pods, and fresh pod weight could be used as selection criteria to improve the seed yield of Bambara groundnut (Vigna subterranea).
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L. Wilczek) is an economically important grain legume crop in Asia, with high nutritional quality and potential in other parts of the world particularly arid and semiarid regions. Considering the potential adverse effects of drought, high salt, and other abiotic stresses on crop yield, significant efforts have been made to understand the underlying molecular mechanisms of tolerance to these abiotic stresses in legumes. In this study, a total of 186 putative AP2/ERF genes were identified, which were named VrERF1-186. These VrERF genes were classified into four main subfamilies according to the number of AP2 domains and sequence similarity, including 24 AP2 gene members, 81 ERF gene members, 79 DREB gene members, and 2 RAV members. VrERF genes are scattered across all 11 chromosomes and form small gene clusters on chromosomes due to segmental or tandem duplication. Promoter analysis revealed various cis-acting elements related to light, hormones, and stress responsiveness processes. The expression profiles of the VrERF genes in tissues during development and in response to abiotic stresses were assessed by transcriptome sequencing, and the selected reference genes were validated by qRT-PCR. A total of 174 VrERF genes were expressed in at least one of five tissues, while others showed distinct expression patterns in different tissues or under specific abiotic stress treatments, which indicates that VrERF genes are involved in developmental and environmental stress responses in V. radiata. In conclusion, the genome localization, genome-wide characterization, gene duplication, phylogenetic relationships, and expression pattern of VrERF genes in V. radiata were analyzed, and these results will lay the foundation for further functional analysis of these genes and improve stress tolerance to adverse conditions in plants.
The Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and its receptor (MET) promote several physiological activities such as tissue regeneration and protection from cell injury of epithelial, endothelial, neuronal and muscle cells. The therapeutic potential of MET activation has been scrutinized in the treatment of acute tissue injury, chronic inflammation, such as renal fibrosis and multiple sclerosis (MS), cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases. On the other hand, the HGF-MET signaling pathway may be caught by cancer cells and turned to work for invasion, metastasis, and drug resistance in the tumor microenvironment. Here, we engineered a recombinant antibody (RDO24) and two derived fragments, binding the extracellular domain (ECD) of the MET protein. The antibody binds with high affinity (8 nM) to MET ECD and does not cross-react with the closely related receptors RON nor with Semaphorin 4D. Deletion mapping studies and computational modeling show that RDO24 binds to the structure bent on the Plexin-Semaphorin-Integrin (PSI) domain, implicating the PSI domain in its binding to MET. The intact RDO24 antibody and the bivalent Fab2, but not the monovalent Fab induce MET auto-phosphorylation, mimicking the mechanism of action of HGF that activates the receptor by dimerization. Accordingly, the bivalent recombinant molecules induce HGF biological responses, such as cell migration and wound healing, behaving as MET agonists of therapeutic interest in regenerative medicine.
Mungbean is an important pulse crop and is predominantly cultivated across Asia. However, its production is hampered by climate change-induced drought stress. Drought affects various morpho-physiological processes associated with growth and molecular functions. This study analyzed growth responses and The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12298-021-01089-w.
Adzuki bean is an important legume crop due to its high-quality protein, fiber, vitamins, minerals as well as rich bioactive substances. However, it is vulnerable to drought at the germination stage. However, little information is available about the genetic control of drought tolerance during seed germination in adzuki bean. In this study, some differential expression proteins (DEPs) were identified during seed germination between the drought-tolerant variety 17235 and drought-sensitive variety 17033 in adzuki bean using iTRAQ method. A total of 2834 proteins were identified in the germinating seeds of these two adzuki beans. Compared with the variety 17033, 87 and 80 DEPs were increased and decreased accumulation in variety 17235 under drought, respectively. Meanwhile, in the control group, a few DEPs, including 9 up-regulated and 21 down-regulated proteins, were detected in variety 17235, respectively. GO, KEGG, and PPI analysis revealed that the DEPs related to carbohydrate metabolism and energy production were significantly increased in response to drought stresses. To validate the proteomic function, the ectopic overexpression of V-ATPase in tobacco was performed and the result showed that V-ATPase upregulation could enhance the drought tolerance of tobacco. The results provide valuable insights into genetic response to drought stress in adzuki bean, and the DEPs could be applied to develop biomarkers related to drought tolerant in adzuki bean breeding projects.
Mung bean coat (MBC) is a good source of dietary fibre and phenolic compounds with medical properties, and can alleviate metabolic diseases. In the present study, the effects of MBC on high fat diet (HFD)-induced hyperlipidemia mice were evaluated, and the underlying mechanisms of MBC against hyperlipidemia from hepatic transcriptional analysis were explored. Four groups of mice were fed a normal control diet or a HFD with or without MBC supplementation (6%, w/w) for 12 weeks. The results demonstrated that MBC supplementation could effectively alleviate HFD-induced obese symptoms, such as body weight gain and white adipose tissue accumulation. Notably, the serum lipid profiles, including total triglyceride, total cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, were significantly lowered, accompanied by a significant improvement in hepatic steatosis. RNA-sequencing analysis indicated 1126 differential expression genes responding to MBC supplementation, and the PPAR signaling pathway was significantly enriched. Furthermore, MBC supplementation could significantly upregulate the transcriptional expression of lipid transformation (lipidolysis)-related genes (
The stem color of young mung bean is a very useful tool in germplasm identification. Flowering time and plant height (PH) are known to be strongly correlated with crop adaption and yield. However, few studies have focused on elucidating the genetic mechanisms that regulate these five particular traits: young stem color (YSC), days to first flowering (DFF), days to maturity (DM), PH, and nodes on the main stem (NMS). In this study, a genetic linkage map for the The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11032-021-01233-0.
Lectins are glycoproteins and known for their peculiar carbohydrate-binding activity and their insect-pest-resistant properties. Earlier we have published our research finding on novel gene encoding Bowman-Birk type protease inhibitor with insecticidal properties from rice bean. This paper presents first report on cloning, sequencing, and expression of RbL ORF of 843 bp encoding 280 amino acids long lectin precursor from rice bean (Vigna umbellata) seeds. Blast analysis revealed more than 90% similarity of RbL protein with Vigna aconitifolia and Vigna angularis lectins. Phylogenetic analysis also revealed a close relationship between RbL and other legume lectins. Sequence analysis of genomic DNA revealed intronless nature of RbL gene (GenBank accession No. MT043160). The isolated RbL ORF was expressed in E. coli BL-21(DE3) cells and maximum expression was recorded with 0.5 mM IPTG after 4 h incubation at 37 °C. Western blotting confirmed RbL protein expression in E. coli. Recombinant protein (His
Drought stress response studies and overexpression of vun-miR408 proved it to be essential for abiotic stress tolerance in cowpea. Small RNA and transcriptome sequencing of an elite high-yielding drought-tolerant Indian cowpea cultivar, Pusa Komal revealed a differential expression of 198 highly conserved, 21 legume-specific, 14 less-conserved, and 10 novel drought-responsive microRNAs (miRNAs) along with 3391 (up-regulated) and 3799 (down-regulated) genes, respectively, in the leaf and root libraries. Among the differentially expressed miRNAs, vun-miR408-3p, showed an up-regulation of 3.53-log
This study aimed to investigate the optimal hypoxic and monosodium glutamate (MSG) stress conditions for the enrichment of γ-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) in germinating adzuki beans and to reveal the potential underlying molecular mechanisms of GABA accumulation. Using single-factor experiments and response surface model, we investigated the effects of germination time, germination temperature, vacuum time, and MSG concentration on GABA contents, and further explored the activity and gene expression of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) and polyamine oxidase (PAO) critical rate restriction enzymes during GABA synthesis. The optimal soaking temperature, soaking time, and pH conditions were 35°C, 16 h, and 5, respectively. Furthermore, the optimal germination conditions for optimal GABA enrichment were 48 h, 1.99 mg/ml MSG concentration, germination temperature of 31.49°C, and vacuum time of 15.83 h. Under such conditions, the predicted GABA concentration was 443.57 ± 7.18 mg/100 g, with no significant difference between the predicted and experimental data. The vacuum + MSG (FZM) treatment has a maximum contribution rate of GABA to 38.29%, which significantly increase GABA content, and the increase was associated with increased GAD and PAO activity. In addition, MSG in combination with vacuum treatment could significantly induce
High salinity is a devastating abiotic stresses for crops. To understand the molecular basis of salinity stress in yardlong bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis), and to develop robust markers for improving this trait in germplasm, whole transcriptome RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was conducted to compare the salt-tolerant variety Suzi 41 and salt-sensitive variety Sujiang 1419 under normal and salt stress conditions. Compared with controls, 417 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified under exposure to high salinity, including 42 up- and 11 down-regulated DEGs in salt-tolerant Suzi 41 and 186 up- and 197 down-regulated genes in salt-sensitive Sujiang 1419, validated by qRT-PCR. DEGs were enriched in "Glycolysis/Gluconeogenesis" (ko00010), "Cutin, suberine and wax biosynthesis" (ko00073), and "phenylpropanoid biosynthesis" (ko00940) in Sujiang 1419, although "cysteine/methionine metabolism" (ko00270) was the only pathway significantly enriched in salt-tolerant Suzi 41. Notably, AP2/ERF, LR48, WRKY, and bHLH family transcription factors (TFs) were up-regulated under high salt conditions. Genetic diversity analysis of 84 yardlong bean accessions using 26 InDel markers developed here could distinguish salt-tolerant and salt-sensitive varieties. These findings show a limited set of DEGs, primarily TFs, respond to salinity stress in V. unguiculata, and that these InDels associated with salt-inducible loci are reliable for diversity analysis.
Mung bean (Vigna radiata) is a warm-season legume crop and belongs to the papilionoid subfamily of the Fabaceae family. China is the leading producer of mung bean in the world. Mung bean has significant economic and health benefits and is a promising species with broad adaptation ability and high tolerance to environmental stresses. OSCA (hyperosmolality-gated calcium-permeable channel) gene family members play an important role in the modulation of hypertonic stress, such as drought and salinity. However, genome-wide analysis of the OSCA gene family has not been conducted in mung bean. We identified a total of 13 OSCA genes in the mung bean genome and named them according to their homology with AtOSCAs. All the OSCAs were phylogenetically split into four clades. Phylogenetic relationship and synteny analyses showed that the VrOSCAs in mung bean and soybean shared a relatively conserved evolutionary history. In addition, three duplicated VrOSCA gene pairs were identified, and the duplicated VrOSCAs gene pairs mainly underwent purifying selection pressure during evolution. Protein domain, motif and transmembrane analyses indicated that most of the VrOSCAs shared similar structures with their homologs. The expression pattern showed that except for VrOSCA2.1, the other 12 VrOSCAs were upregulated under treatment with ABA, PEG and NaCl, among which VrOSCA1.4 showed the largest increased expression levels. The duplicated genes VrOSCA2.1/VrOSCA2.2 showed divergent expression, which might have resulted in functionalization during subsequent evolution. The expression profiles under ABA, PEG and NaCl stress revealed a functional divergence of VrOSCA genes, which agreed with the analysis of cis-acting regulatory elements in the promoter regions of VrOSCA genes. Collectively, the study provided a systematic analysis of the VrOSCA gene family in mung bean. Our results establish an important foundation for functional and evolutionary analysis of VrOSCAs and identify genes for further investigation of their ability to confer abiotic stress tolerance in mung bean.
Yeast is a dominant host for recombinant production of heterologous proteins, high-value biochemical compounds, and microbial fermentation. During bioprocess operations, pH fluctuations, organic solvents, drying, starvation, osmotic pressure, and often a combination of these stresses cause growth inhibition or death, markedly limiting its industrial use. Thus, stress-tolerant yeast strains with balanced energy-bioenergetics are highly desirous for sustainable improvement of quality biotechnological production. We isolated two NAC transcription factors (TFs), VuNAC1 and VuNAC2, from a wild cowpea genotype, improving both stress tolerance and growth when expressed in yeast. The GFP-fused proteins were localized to the nucleus. Y2H and reporter assay demonstrated the dimerization and transactivation abilities of the VuNAC proteins having structural folds similar to rice SNAC1. The gel-shift assay indicated that the TFs recognize an "ATGCGTG" motif for DNA-binding shared by several native TFs in yeast. The heterologous expression of VuNAC1/2 in yeast improved growth, biomass, lifespan, fermentation efficiency, and altered cellular composition of biomolecules. The transgenic strains conferred tolerance to multiple stresses such as high salinity, osmotic stress, freezing, and aluminum toxicity. Analysis of the metabolome revealed reprogramming of major pathways synthesizing nucleotides, vitamin B complex, amino acids, antioxidants, flavonoids, and other energy currencies and cofactors. Consequently, the transcriptional tuning of stress signaling and biomolecule metabolism improved the survival of the transgenic strains during starvation and stress recovery. VuNAC1/2-based synthetic gene expression control may contribute to designing robust industrial yeast strains with value-added productivity.
The Teosinte branched 1/Cycloidea/Proliferating cell factor (TCP) transcription factors are potent growth and developmental regulators in plants, also responsive to various hormonal and environmental stimuli. In this study, we primarily focused on the functional role of TCP9, a nuclear-localised Class-I TCP transcription factor in a drought and heat-tolerant legume crop, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Under drought stress, a higher protein expression level of TCP9 was observed in the leaves of the drought-tolerant cowpea cultivar Pusa Komal as compared to the drought-sensitive cultivar TVu-7778. Further, overexpression of VuTCP9 resulted in reduced cell and stomata size, aperture length and width while cell and overall stomatal density in the 35S::VuTCP9 transgenic cowpea lines increased. Phenotypic alterations, such as reduced leaf size and vigour, altered seed coats displaying extension pattern similar to the 'Watson pattern' and delayed senescence were prominent in the transgenic lines. Under normal conditions, the gas exchange and fluorescence measurements indicated reduction in transpiration rate (E), stomatal conductance (g
Host-specific legume-rhizobium symbiosis is strictly controlled by rhizobial type III effectors (T3Es) in some cases. Here, we demonstrated that the symbiosis of Vigna radiata (mung bean) with Bradyrhizobium diazoefficiens USDA110 is determined by NopE, and this symbiosis is highly dependent on host genotype. NopE specifically triggered incompatibility with V. radiata cv. KPS2, but it promoted nodulation in other varieties of V. radiata, including KPS1. Interestingly, NopE1 and its paralogue NopE2, which exhibits calcium-dependent autocleavage, yield similar results in modulating KPS1 nodulation. Furthermore, NopE is required for early infection and nodule organogenesis in compatible plants. Evolutionary analysis revealed that NopE is highly conserved among bradyrhizobia and plant-associated endophytic and pathogenic bacteria. Our findings suggest that V. radiata and B. diazoefficiens USDA110 may use NopE to optimize their symbiotic interactions by reducing phytohormone-mediated ETI-type (PmETI) responses via salicylic acid (SA) biosynthesis suppression.
This study establishes possibility of combinatorial silencing of more than one functional gene for their efficacy against root-knot nematode, M. incognita. Root-knot nematodes (RKN) of the genus Meloidogyne are the key important plant parasitic nematodes (PPNs) in agricultural and horticultural crops worldwide. Among RKNs, M. incognita is the most notorious that demand exploration of novel strategies for their management. Due to its sustainable and target-specific nature, RNA interference (RNAi) has gained unprecedented importance to combat RKNs. However, based on the available genomic information and interaction studies, it can be presumed that RKNs are dynamic and not dependent on single genes for accomplishing a particular function. Therefore, it becomes extremely important to consider silencing of more than one gene to establish any synergistic or additive effect on nematode parasitism. In this direction, we have combined three effectors specific to subventral gland cells of M. incognita, Mi-msp1, Mi-msp16, Mi-msp20 as fusion cassettes-1 and two FMRFamide-like peptides, Mi-flp14, Mi-flp18, and Mi-msp20 as fusion cassettes-2 to establish their possible utility for M. incognita management. In vitro RNAi assay in tomato and adzuki bean using these two fusion gene negatively altered nematode behavior in terms of reduced attraction, invasion, development, and reproduction. Subsequently, Nicotiana tabacum plants were transformed with these two fusion gene hairpin RNA-expressing vectors (hpRNA), and characterized via PCR, qRT-PCR, and Southern blot hybridization. Production of siRNAs specific to Mi-flp18 and Mi-msp1 was also confirmed by Northern hybridization. Further, transgenic events expressing single copy insertions of hpRNA constructs of fusion 1 and fusion-2 conferred up to 85% reduction in M. incognita multiplication. Besides, expression quantification revealed a significant reduction in mRNA abundance of target genes (up to 1.8-fold) in M. incognita females extracted from transgenic plants, and provided additional evidence for successful gene silencing.
Seed coat colour is an important nutritional quality trait. Variations in anthocyanins and flavonoids induce the diversity of seed coat colour in adzuki bean (
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is an aggressive tumor characterized by the presence of an abundant stromal compartment contributing significantly to the malignant phenotype. Pancreatic stellate cells are peculiar fibroblasts present in the stroma and represent the predominant source of extracellular matrix proteins, pro-inflammatory cytokines, and growth factors, including hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). Exploiting a co-culture system of human pancreatic stellate cells and cancer cells, we demonstrated that fibroblast activation was reduced upon HGF/MET axis inhibition. To unveil the signaling pathways sustaining stroma modulation orchestrated by MET activation in the tumor, we analyzed the gene expression profile in pancreatic cancer cells stimulated with HGF and treated with HGF/MET inhibitors. Transcriptome analysis showed that, among all the genes modulated by HGF, a subset of 125 genes was restored to the basal level following treatment with the inhibitors. By examining these genes via ingenuity pathway analysis, tenascin C emerged as a promising candidate linking MET signaling and tumor microenvironment. MET-dependent tenascin C modulation in pancreatic cancer cells was validated at RNA and protein levels both in vitro and in vivo. In conclusion, this work identifies tenascin C as a gene modulated by MET activation, suggesting a role in MET-mediated tumor-stroma interplay occurring during pancreatic tumor progression.
Fusarium wilt is a destructive soil-borne disease that threatens the production of mung bean. Mung bean lines Zheng8-4 and Zheng8-20 show high resistance and high susceptibility to Fusarium wilt, respectively. Transcriptome analysis was carried out to identify candidate genes involved in Fusarium wilt resistance using Zheng8-4 and Zheng8-20 at 0, 0.5, 1, 2, and 4 days post inoculation (dpi). Differential expression analysis showed that 3,254 genes responded to pathogen infection and were differentially expressed in the resistant and susceptible lines. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was also performed to identify five modules highly correlated with Fusarium wilt resistance, in which 453 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were considered likely to be involved in Fusarium wilt resistance. Among these DEGs, we found 24 genes encoding resistance (R) proteins, 22 encoding protein kinases, 20 belonging to transcription factor families, 34 encoding proteins with oxidoreductase activity, 17 involved in stimulation/stress responses, and 54 annotated to pathogen resistance-related pathways. Finally, 27 annotated genes were further selected as candidate genes of Fusarium wilt resistance in mung bean. This study identifies novel potential resistance-related genes against Fusarium wilt and provides a theoretical basis for further investigation of Fusarium wilt resistance in mung bean breeding.
The present work represents a pioneering effort, being the first to analyze genomic and transcriptomic data from
Increasing attention has been focused on plant-derived peptides because of their potential bioactivities. In this study, bioactive peptides were released from extruded adzuki bean protein by simulated gastrointestinal digestion. A peptide (KQS-1) sequenced as KQSESHFVDAQPEQQQR was separated and identified using ultrafiltration, pre-high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and ultraperformance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS). KQS-1 was shown to exert significant anti-inflammatory effects in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 macrophages by reducing the production of IL-1, IL-6, TNF-α, and MCP-1 to 38.31, 6.07, 43.96, and 41.74%, respectively. The involved signaling pathways were identified by transcriptome analysis. Overall, 5236 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. Gene ontology (GO) functions demonstrated that DEGs were significantly related to the NF-κB pathway. In conclusion, KQS-1 prevented the activation and expression of NF-κB/caspase-1 by upstream and downstream factors. These findings highlight the bioactivity of adzuki bean peptides.
Polygenic genome-wide association mapping identified two regions of the cowpea genome associated with different components of resistance to its major post-harvest pest, the seed beetle Callosobruchus maculatus. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is an important grain and fodder crop in arid and semi-arid regions of Africa, Asia, and South America, where the cowpea seed beetle, Callosobruchus maculatus, is a serious post-harvest pest. Development of cultivars resistant to C. maculatus population growth in storage could increase grain yield and quality and reduce reliance on insecticides. Here, we use a MAGIC (multi-parent, advanced-generation intercross) population of cowpea consisting of 305 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) to identify genetic variants associated with resistance to seed beetles. Because inferences regarding the genetic basis of resistance may depend on the source of the pest or the assay protocol, we used two divergent geographic populations of C. maculatus and two complementary assays to measure several aspects of resistance. Using polygenic genome-wide association mapping models, we found that the cowpea RILs harbor substantial additive-genetic variation for most resistance measures. Variation in several components of resistance, including larval development time and survival, was largely explained by one or several linked loci on chromosome 5. A second region on chromosome 8 explained increased seed resistance via the induction of early-exiting larvae. Neither of these regions contained genes previously associated with resistance to insects that infest grain legumes. We found some evidence of gene-gene interactions affecting resistance, but epistasis did not contribute substantially to resistance variation in this mapping population. The combination of mostly high heritabilities and a relatively consistent and simple genetic architecture increases the feasibility of breeding for enhanced resistance to C. maculatus.
A simple and generally fast Agrobacterium-mediated transformation system with no tissue culture and selection steps has been developed for the first time in a recalcitrant food legume, cowpea. The approach involves wounding of 1-day-old germinated seeds with a needle or sonication either alone or in combination of vacuum infiltration with A. tumefaciens EH105 (pCAMBIA2301) carrying a β-glucuronidase (GUS) gene (uidA) and a neomycin phosphotransferase (nptII) gene for stable transformation. Sonicated and vacuum infiltrated seedlings showed the highest transient GUS activity in 90% of the explants. The sprouted co-cultured seeds directly established in soil and without selection were allowed to develop into plants which on maturity produced T
Light affects the accumulation of vitamin E and carotenoids in many crops. This study investigated the impact of photoperiods on the metabolic regulation of vitamin E and carotenoids in mung bean sprouts considering their dietary health benefits. Mung beans were germinated under three different photoperiods: constant light, semilight and constant dark. Results revealed that the semilight photoperiod was optimum for vitamin E and carotenoid accumulation in mung bean sprouts. DXS was activated in the constant dark and was inhibited by constant light. GGPPS and HPT were sensitive to semilight photoperiod in the vitamin E biosynthetic pathway, playing dominant roles in vitamin E accumulation. The PSY, LCYE, LUT5, LUT1 and ZE genes, which are associated with carotenoid biosynthesis, were activated under semilight treatment and significantly regulated the accumulation of carotenoids. This knowledge improves knowledge on light-mediated regulation of vitamin E and carotenoids in mung bean sprouts.
The present study aimed to investigate the effects of mungbean water extract (MWE) on insulin downstream signaling in insulin-resistant HepG2 cells. Whole seed mungbean was extracted using boiling water, mimicking a traditional cooking method. Vitexin and isovitexin were identified in MWE. The results showed that MWE inhibited protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP)-1B (IC
Although nitric oxide (NO) is a key regulatory molecule in plants, its function in plants under conditions of simulated acid rain (SAR) has not been fully established yet. In this study, exogenous sodium nitroprusside (SNP) at three different concentrations were applied to mung bean seedlings. Malondialdehyde (MDA), NO, hydrogen peroxide (H
Fluoride exporter genes (FEX) are known for the expulsion of cytoplasmic fluoride, thus preventing fluoride toxicity in plants. In this study, 31 FEX genes were identified across 19 plant species. Camphor Resistance (CrcB) domain was found to be present in all the identified FEX genes in plants. FEX genes were sequentially very conserved among the plants and are located mostly in chloroplast and mitochondria. The tertiary structure (3D) of The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-021-02677-z.
Bruchids (Callosobruchus spp.) are destructive storage pests of mung beans (Vigna radiata). Bruchids infest mature seeds during storage and in the field causing heavy losses. Bruchid resistance in mung bean has been characterized as a dominant trait controlled by a single gene. Several independent mapping studies showed that the Br locus on chromosome 5 was a key quantitative trait loci (QTL) involved in bruchid resistance. Two polygalacturonase-inhibitor protein (PGIP) family genes, VrPGIP1 and VrPGIP2, located in the Br locus may be the primary genes responsible for bruchid resistance in mung bean but no experimental proof is available. We isolated the VrPGIP1 and VrPGIP2 genes from bruchid resistant mung bean cultivar V2802 and purified the proteins by prokaryotic expression. Both VrPGIP1 and VrPGIP2 had polygalacturonase inhibitor activity and both of the PGIP proteins conferred resistance to bruchids in an artificial seed test system. VrPGIPs can inhibit the enzyme activity of polygalacturonase present in males, females and fourth instar larvae of C. maculatus. These results demonstrated that VrPGIP1 and VrPGIP2 play a critical role in bruchid resistance probably through inhibiting polygalacturonase activity.
The expression of clock genes, regulating the synchronization of metabolic and behavioral processes with environmental light/dark cycles, is regulated by methylation and might be influenced by short-term exposure to airborne particulate matter (PM), especially in individuals that are hypersensitive to proinflammatory cues. The present study aimed to evaluate the effects of PM
Callosobruchus chinensis is one of the important postharvest pests in legume growing areas. Bacterial pesticide is a potential alternative method to control storage pests. However, the effect of these pathogen bacteria on storage pests, and the molecular mechanisms of insect response remain to be to investigated. Using the next generation sequencing technology, we established a transcriptomic library for C. chinensis larvae in response to Escherichia coli. Total of 355 differential expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, which 178 DEGs were upregulated, and 177 DEGs were downregulated compared to control group. To validate the RNA-seq analysis, 20 DEGs and 14 immune-related genes were selected to perform quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). These immune-related genes were involved in recognition (peptidoglycan recognition proteins), signal transduction (fibrinogen-related proteins, serine proteinases and NF-κB), and execution effectors (phenoloxidase, defensin, attacin, and antimicrobial peptide). In addition, genes that encode digestive and respiratory enzymes were altered in C. chinensis larvae in response to infection. Some genes that involved in juvenile hormone and insulin pathway appeared to express differentially, suggesting that pathogen infection might lead to developmental arrest. Furthermore, iron homeostasis and chitin metabolism appeared significantly altered after infection. In this study, we characterized the immune response of C. chinensis larvae in response to E. coli using RNA-seq, from pathogen recognition, signal transduction, to execution. Some other identified genes were involved in iron homeostasis, respiration, and digestion. A better understanding of molecular response of beetle to pathogen will facilitate us to develop an available strategy to control storage pests.
Fertile independent transgenic cowpea lines expressing the BtCry2Aa toxin with increased resistance to the most devastating lepidopteran insect pest, Maruca pod borer has been developed for the first time. Cowpea is a staple legume important for food and nutritional security in sub-Saharan Africa and Asia, where its production is limited by the key pest, legume pod borer (Maruca vitrata). Cowpea varieties resistant to M. vitrata are not known, hence, development of Maruca pod borer resistance cowpea through genetic engineering is a promising approach to improve its production. In the present study, transgenic cowpea plants expressing Bacillus thuringiensis Cry2Aa insecticidal protein were developed for the first time using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of cotyledonary explants. T
Yellow Mosaic Disease (YMD) in mungbean [Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek] is one of the most damaging diseases in Asia. In the northern part of India, the YMD is caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV), while in southern India this is caused by Mungbean Yellow Mosaic Virus (MYMV). The molecular mechanism of YMD resistance in mungbean remains largely unknown. In this study, RNA-seq analysis was conducted between a resistant (PMR-1) and a susceptible (Pusa Vishal) mungbean genotype under infected and control conditions to understand the regulatory network operating between mungbean-YMV. Overall, 76.8 million raw reads could be generated in different treatment combinations, while mapping rate per library to the reference genome varied from 86.78% to 93.35%. The resistance to MYMIV showed a very complicated gene network, which begins with the production of general PAMPs (pathogen-associated molecular patterns), then activation of various signaling cascades like kinases, jasmonic acid (JA) and brassinosteroid (BR), and finally the expression of specific genes (like PR-proteins, virus resistance and R-gene proteins) leading to resistance response. The function of WRKY, NAC and MYB transcription factors in imparting the resistance against MYMIV could be established. The string analysis also revealed the role of proteins involved in kinase, viral movement and phytoene synthase activity in imparting YMD resistance. A set of novel stress-related EST-SSRs are also identified from the RNA-Seq data which may be used to find the linked genes/QTLs with the YMD resistance. Also, 11 defence-related transcripts could be validated through quantitative real-time PCR analysis. The identified gene networks have led to an insight about the defence mechanism operating against MYMIV infection in mungbean which will be of immense use to manage the YMD resistance in mungbean.
Black gram [Vigna mungo (L)] seeds are a rich source of digestible protein and dietary fibre, both for human and animal consumption. However, the quality and quantity of the Vigna seeds are severely affected by bruchid beetles during storage. Therefore, analyses of the expression of the bruchid induced transcript dynamics in black gram pods would be helpful to understand the underlying defense mechanism against bruchid oviposition. We used the RNAseq approach to survey the changes in transcript profile in the developing seeds of a moderately resistant cultivar IC-8219 against bruchid oviposition using a susceptible cultivar T-9 as a control. A total of 96,084,600 and 99,532,488 clean reads were generated from eight (4 each) samples of IC-8219 and T-9 cultivar, respectively. Based on the BLASTX search against the NR database, 32,584 CDSs were generated of which 31,817 CDSs were significantly similar to Vigna radiata, a close relative of Vigna mungo. The IC-8219 cultivar had 630 significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of which 304 and 326 genes up and down-regulated, respectively. However, in the T-9 cultivar, only 168 DEGs were identified of which 142 and 26 genes up and down-regulated, respectively. The expression analyses of 10 DEGs by qPCR confirmed the accuracy of the RNA-Seq data. Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway analyses helped us to better understand the role of these DEGs in oviposition mediated defense response of black gram. In both the cultivars, the most significant transcriptomic changes in response to the oviposition were related to the induction of defense response genes, transcription factors, secondary metabolites, enzyme inhibitors, and signal transduction pathways. It appears that the bruchid ovipositioning mediated defense response in black gram is induced by SA signaling pathways and defense genes such as defensin, genes for secondary metabolites, and enzyme inhibitors could be potential candidates for resistance to bruchids. We generated a transcript profile of immature black gram pods upon bruchid ovipositioning by de novo assembly and studied the underlying defense mechanism of a moderately resistant cultivar.
In most diploids the centromere-specific histone H3 (CENH3), the assembly site of active centromeres, is encoded by a single copy gene. Persistance of two CENH3 paralogs in diploids species raises the possibility of subfunctionalization. Here we analysed both CENH3 genes of the diploid dryland crop cowpea. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that gene duplication of CENH3 occurred independently during the speciation of Vigna unguiculata. Both functional CENH3 variants are transcribed, and the corresponding proteins are intermingled in subdomains of different types of centromere sequences in a tissue-specific manner together with the kinetochore protein CENPC. CENH3.2 is removed from the generative cell of mature pollen, while CENH3.1 persists. CRISPR/Cas9-based inactivation of CENH3.1 resulted in delayed vegetative growth and sterility, indicating that this variant is needed for plant development and reproduction. By contrast, CENH3.2 knockout individuals did not show obvious defects during vegetative and reproductive development. Hence, CENH3.2 of cowpea is likely at an early stage of pseudogenization and less likely undergoing subfunctionalization.
In angiosperms, meiotic failure coupled with the formation of genetically unreduced gametophytes in ovules (apomeiosis) constitute major components of gametophytic apomixis. These aberrant developmental events are generally thought to be caused by mutation. However, efforts to locate the responsible mutations have failed. Herein, we tested a fundamentally different hypothesis: apomeiosis is a polyphenism of meiosis, with meiosis and apomeiosis being maintained by different states of metabolic homeostasis. Microarray analyses of ovules and pistils were used to differentiate meiotic from apomeiotic processes in
This paper reports fine mapping of qCLS for resistance to Cercospora leaf spot disease in mungbean and identified LOC106765332encoding TATA-binding-protein-associated factor 5 (TAF5) as the candidate gene for the resistance Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by the fungus Cercospora canescens is an important disease of mungbean. A QTL mapping using mungbean F
Mungbean, is a widely cultivated pulse crop in India, experiences severe drought stress during the cultivation period. The mechanism of drought tolerance in mungbean is not well understood. In this presents study we screened 7 widely cultivated mungbean genotypes towards their drought sensitivity at seedling stage and transcriptome sequencing of drought-tolerant and susceptible genotype to understand the drought tolerance mechanism. Our physiological data such as increase in root length, shoot length, fresh weight, dry weight, relative water content (RWC), proline content, MDA content and molecular data in terms of quantitative expression of drought stress responsive genes under 3-d drought stress in mungbean suggests that, K851 seems to be most drought tolerant and PDM-139 as drought susceptible genotype. The transcriptomic study between K-851 and PDM-139 revealed 22,882 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) which were identified under drought stress, and they were mainly mapped to phytohormone signal transduction, carbon metabolism and flavonoid biosynthesis. Out of these, 10,235 genes were up-regulated and 12,647 genes were down-regulated. Furthermore, we found that, the DEGs related to, phytohormone signal transduction, carbon metabolism and flavonoid biosynthesis and they were more induced in K-851. Our data suggested that, the drought tolerant genotype K-851, scavenges the damage of drought stress by producing more amount of osmolytes, ROS scavengers and sugar biosynthesis.
Flowering time has a critically important effect on the reproduction of plants, and many components involved in flowering-time regulation have been identified in multiple plant species. However, studies of the flowering-time genes in mungbean (Vigna radiata) have been limited. Here, we characterized a novel mungbean gene, VrLELP, involved in flowering-time regulation in transgenic Arabidopsis. Subcellular localization analysis revealed that VrLELP was localized in the membrane, cytoplasm and nucleus and the nucleus and membrane contained higher signal than cytoplasm, similar to the empty vector control. The expression of VrLELP was higher in leaves and pods and lower in nodule roots relative to other tissues. The expression of VrLELP varied during flower development. The expression of VrLELP also varied during the day, reaching a peak after 12 h of illumination under long-day conditions. In contrast, under short-day conditions, the abundance of VrLELP transcripts changed little throughout the day. In addition, VrLELP delayed flowering time in transgenic Arabidopsis plants by suppressing the expression of the flowering-time genes CO and FT under short-day conditions. However, VrLELP did not affect flowering time under long-day conditions in Arabidopsis. Our study provides essential information for future studies of the molecular mechanisms of the flowering-time regulation system in mungbean.
Cytosine methylation in genomic DNA affects gene expression, potentially causing phenotypic variation. Mungbean, an agronomically and nutritionally important legume species, is characterized by nonsynchronous pod maturity, resulting in multiple harvest which costs extra time and labor. To elucidate the epigenetic influences on synchronous pod maturity (SPM) in mungbean, we determined the genome-wide DNA methylation profiles of eight mungbean recombinant inbred lines (RILs) and their parental genotypes, and compared DNA methylation profiles between high SPM and low SPM RILs, thus revealing differentially methylated regions (DMRs). A total of 3, 18, and 28 pure DMRs, defined as regions showing no significant correlation between nucleotide sequence variation and methylation level, were identified in CpG, CHG, and CHH contexts, respectively. These DMRs were proximal to 20 genes. Among the 544 single nucleotide polymorphisms identified near the 20 genes, only one caused critical change in gene expression by early termination. Analysis of these genome-wide DNA methylation profiles suggests that epigenetic changes can influence the expression of proximal genes, regardless of nucleotide sequence variation, and that SPM is mediated through gibberellin-mediated hormone signaling pathways. These results provide insights into how epialleles contribute to phenotypic variation and improve SPM in mungbean cultivars.
Availability of genome sequence of different legume species has provided an opportunity to characterize the abundance, distribution, and divergence of canonical intact long terminal retrotransposons (In-LTR-RT) superfamilies. Among seven legume species, Arachis ipaensis (Aip) showed the highest number of full-length canonical In-LTR-RTs (3325), followed by Glycine max (Gma, 2328), Vigna angularis (Van, 1625), Arachis durensis (Adu, 1348), Lotus japonicus (Lja, 1294), Medicago truncatula (Mtr, 788), and Circer arietinum (Car, 124). Divergence time analysis demonstrated that the amplification timeframe of LTR-RTs dramatically varied in different families. The average insertion time of Copia element varied from 0.51 (Van) to 1.37 million years ago (Mya) (Adu, and Aip), whereas that of Gypsy was between 0.22 (Mtr) and 1.82 Mya (Adu). Bayesian phylogenetic tree analysis suggested that the 1397 and 1917 reverse transcriptase (RT) domains of Copia and Gypsy families of the seven legume species were clustered into 7 and 14 major groups, respectively. The highest proportion (approximately 94.79-100%) of transposable element (TE)-associated genes assigned to pathways was mapped to metabolism-related pathways in all species. The results enabled the structural understanding of full-length In-LTR-RTs and will be valuable resource for the further study of the impact of TEs on gene structure and expression in legume species.
Cowpea is a well-known nutrition rich African leafy vegetable that has potential to sustain food and nutrition insecurity in sub-Saharan Africa. Consumption of cowpea legumes is associated with reduced risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Therefore, the present study was designed to evaluate the (i) variation in phenolic metabolites in seven cowpea cultivars (VOP1, VOP2, VOP3, VOP4, VOP5, VOP7, and VOP8 using UHPLC coupled with high resolution Q-TOF-MS technique, (ii) in vitro antioxidant activity using ferric reducing/antioxidant capacity (FRAP) assay (iii) in vitro anti-diabetic effects and (iv) composition of carotenoids and amino acids of theses cowpea cultivars. The results of this study demonstrated that gentisic acid 5-
Cadmium (Cd) is a detrimental element that can be toxic to plants. The physiological and biochemical responses of plants to Cd stress have been extensively studied, but the molecular mechanisms remain unclear. The present study showed that Cd severely inhibited the growth of roots and shoots and reduced plant biomass of mung bean seedlings. To further investigate the gene profiles and molecular processes in response Cd stress, transcriptome analyses of mung bean roots exposed to 100 μM Cd for 1, 5, and 9 days were performed. Cd treatment significantly decreased global gene expression levels at 5 and 9 d compared with the control. A total of 6737, 10279, and 9672 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in the 1-, 5-, and 9-day Cd-treated root tissues compared with the controls, respectively. Based on the analysis of DEG function annotation and enrichment, a pattern of mung bean roots response to Cd stress was proposed. The processes detoxification and antioxidative defense were involved in the early response of mung bean roots to Cd. Cd stress downregulated the expressions of a series of genes involved in cell wall biosynthesis, cell division, DNA replication and repair, and photosynthesis, while genes involved in signal transduction and regulation, transporters, secondary metabolisms, defense systems, and mitochondrial processes were upregulated in response to Cd, which might be contributed to the improvement of plant tolerance. Our results provide some novel insights into the molecular processes for growth and adaption of mung bean roots in response to Cd and many candidate genes for further biotechnological manipulations to improve plant tolerance to heavy metals.
Loss/reduction of function of Mildew Locus O (MLO) genes clade V and MLO clade IV has been shown to be responsible for powdery mildew (PM) resistance in several plant species. Mungbean (Vigna radiata) genome possesses 18 MLO genes, VrMLO1 - VrMLO18. A previous study using mungbean F
Organ size and architecture of plants are important traits affecting crop yield and agronomic practices. An induced mutant, multiple-organ gigantism (MOG), of black gram (
Globally, yellow mosaic disease (YMD) remains a major constraint of mungbean production, and management of this deadly disease is still the biggest challenge. Thus, finding ways to manage YMD including development of varieties possessing resistance against mungbean yellow mosaic virus (MYMV) and mungbean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV) is a research priority for mungbean crop. Characterization of YMD resistance using various advanced molecular and biochemical approaches during plant-virus interactions has unfolded a comprehensive network of pathogen survival, disease severity, and the response of plants to pathogen attack, including mechanisms of YMD resistance in mungbean. The biggest challenge in YMD management is the effective utilization of an array of information gained so far, in an integrated manner for the development of genotypes having durable resistance against yellow mosaic virus (YMV) infection. In this backdrop, this review summarizes the role of various begomoviruses, its genomic components, and vector whiteflies, including cryptic species in the YMD expression. Also, information about the genetics of YMD in both mungbean and blackgram crops is comprehensively presented, as both the species are crossable, and same viral strains are also found affecting these crops. Also, implications of various management strategies including the use of resistance sources, the primary source of inoculums and vector management, wide-hybridization, mutation breeding, marker-assisted selection (MAS), and pathogen-derived resistance (PDR) are thoroughly discussed. Finally, the prospects of employing various powerful emerging tools like translational genomics, and gene editing using CRISPR/Cas9 are also highlighted to complete the YMD management perspective in mungbean.
The legume cowpea ( Attempts to develop a transient protoplast system for cowpea were unsuccessful. Leaflets from plants 3-4 weeks post-germination were age selected to establish a rapid The transient, detached cowpea leaf assay, and supporting analytical methods developed, provide a rapid and reproducible means for testing gene expression constructs, and constructs for inducing mutagenesis in genes involved in both vegetative and reproductive developmental programs. The method and tested editing constructs and components have potential application for a range of crop legumes.
Synchronous pod maturity is critical for increasing grain yield. The candidate genes involved in synchronous pod maturity were identified through RNA-seq and HPLC. Mungbean (Vigna radiata [L.] Wilczek), an important source of carbohydrate and protein in Asia, is characterized by nonsynchronous pod maturity; consequently, harvesting is labor intensive. Because pod maturity is associated with synthesis and remobilization of sucrose, we examined changes in sucrose levels and transcriptome in leaf (source) tissues after pod (sink) removal using two genotypes, VC1973A and V2984; VC1973A had higher synchronicity in pod maturity than V2984. After pod removal, much higher number of pods were produced in V2984 than VC1973A. The sucrose content of leaf tissues significantly decreased in V2984 because it continued to utilize assimilates from leaves for producing new pods, but significantly increased in VC1973A because of the loss of sink. Transcriptome analysis revealed that the number of differentially expressed genes was approximately fourfold higher in VC1973A than in those of V2984 after pod removal. The expression of two paralogous genes (Vradi01g05010 and Vradi10g08240), encoding beta-glucosidase enzymes, significantly decreased in VC1973A after pod removal and was significantly lower in depodded VC1973A than depodded V2984, indicating these two genes may participate in sucrose utilization for seed development by regulating the level of glucose. The results of this study will help elucidate the genetic basis of synchronous pod maturity in mungbean and facilitate the development of new cultivars with synchronous pod maturity.
Arsenic (As)-toxicity is recognized as one of the major environmental problems, affecting productivity of crops worldwide, thereby threatening sustainable agriculture and food security. Progression in nanotechnology and its impacts have brought up concerns about the application of engineered nanoparticles (NPs) in various sectors of the economy, including the field of agronomy. Among various NPs, there has been a rising amount of interest regarding the effects of titanium NPs (TiNPs) on plants growth and development, and their fate of abiotic stress tolerance. Hence, the present study was aimed to assess the ameliorative potentialities of chemically and biologically/green synthesized TiNPs to alleviate As-induced toxic responses in Vigna radiata L. The results revealed that exposure to As hindered the growth indices (radicle length and biomass) and membrane integrity, while were improved with the application of chemical and green synthesized TiNPs. In addition, treatment of As provoked the accretion of reactive oxygen species (superoxide and hydrogen peroxide) and malondialdehyde (a lipid peroxidized product), but were diminished by the supplementation of chemical and green manufactured TiNPs. The experimental data also signified that exogenous application of chemical and green synthesized TiNPs conferred tolerance to As-induced oxidative injuries via perking-up the expressions of antioxidant genes and enzyme systems viz; superoxide dismutase and catalase. Therefore, the present study inferred that chemically and green synthesized TiNPs, particularly green manufactured, effectively mitigated the adverse impacts of As by augmenting antioxidant machinery, thereby proving its potentiality in the alleviation of As-toxicity, at least in Vignaradiata L.
Cowpea miRNAs and Argonaute genes showed differential expression patterns in response to CPSMV challenge Several biotic stresses affect cowpea production and yield. CPSMV stands out for causing severe negative impacts on cowpea. Plants have two main induced immune systems. In the basal system (PTI, PAMP-triggered immunity), plants recognize and respond to conserved molecular patterns associated with pathogens (PAMPs). The second type (ETI, Effector-triggered immunity) is induced after plant recognition of specific factors from pathogens. RNA silencing is another important defense mechanism in plants. Our research group has been using biochemical and proteomic approaches to learn which proteins and pathways are involved and could explain why some cowpea genotypes are resistant whereas others are susceptible to CPSMV. This current study was conducted to determine the role of cowpea miRNA in the interaction between a resistant cowpea genotype (BRS-Marataoã) and CPSMV. Previously identified and deposited plant microRNA sequences were used to find out all possible microRNAs in the cowpea genome. This search detected 617 mature microRNAs, which were distributed in 89 microRNA families. Next, 4 out of these 617 miRNAs and their possible target genes that encode the proteins Kat-p80, DEAD-Box, GST, and SPB9, all involved in the defense response of cowpea to CPSMV, had their expression compared between cowpea leaves uninoculated and inoculated with CPSMV. Additionally, the differential expression of genes that encode the Argonaute (AGO) proteins 1, 2, 4, 6, and 10 is reported. In summary, the studied miRNAs and AGO 2 and AGO4 associated genes showed differential expression patterns in response to CPSMV challenge, which indicate their role in cowpea defense.
Worldwide, 50% of soil is acidic, which induces aluminium (Al) toxicity in plants, as the phyto-availability of Al
During mung bean post-germination seedling growth, various metabolic and physiological changes occurred, leading to the improvement of its nutritional values. Here, transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses of mung bean samples from 6-hour, 3-day and 6-day after imbibition (6-HAI, 3-DAI, and 6-DAI) were performed to characterize the regulatory mechanism of the primary metabolites during the post-germination seedling growth. From 6-HAI to 3-DAI, rapid changes in transcript level occurred, including starch and sucrose metabolism, glycolysis, citrate cycle, amino acids synthesis, and plant hormones regulation. Later changes in the metabolites, including carbohydrates and amino acids, appeared to be driven by increases in transcript levels. During this process, most amino acids and monosaccharides kept increasing, and accumulated in 6-day germinated sprouts. These processes were also accompanied with changes in hormones including abscisic acid, gibberellin, jasmonic acid, indole-3-acetic acid, etc. Overall, these results will provide insights into molecular mechanisms underlying the primary metabolic regulation in mung bean during post-germination seedling growth.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the interaction of pro-vitamin A-rich sweet potato on iron bioavailability of biofortified cowpeas, using in vitro Caco-2 cells and in vivo depletion-repletion rat model. Mixtures of conventional rice with cultivars of iron-biofortified (Aracê, Xiquexique, and Tumucumaque) or conventional (Guariba) cowpeas with or without sweet potato biofortified with pro-vitamin A carotenoids were evaluated. The ratio of ferritin/total protein in Caco-2 cells was used as the index of cellular Fe uptake in the in vitro assay. The animal study evaluated the hemoglobin gain, the relative biological value, and the gene expression of transferrin and ferritin proteins by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. In the in vitro study, Xiquexique cowpea presented higher bioavailability of iron in the absence of sweet potato, and no difference was observed between the other cultivars of cowpea with and without sweet potato. The in vivo bioavailability (relative biological value of hemoglobin regeneration efficiency) differed statistically only between Guariba groups added to sweet potato and Tumucumaque. Ferritin mRNA expression did not differ between the test and control (ferrous sulfate) groups. Regarding the transferrin mRNA expression, there was a difference between the test and control groups except for the Xiquexique group. The association of rice and beans with sweet potato rich in carotenoids favored the gene expression of proteins involved in the iron metabolism, as well as its bioavailability, corroborating beneficial effects of this mixture. Xiquexique cowpea was shown to be the most promising compared to the other cultivars, exhibiting higher iron content in the digestible fraction, better in vitro bioavailability of iron, and transferrin gene expression. PRACTICAL APPLICATION: Data from the study indicated greater in vitro bioavailability of iron for Xiquexique cowpea and sweet potato mixtures, in addition to the greater regeneration efficiency of hemoglobin in vivo as the bioavailability of iron among biofortified beans, highlighting the promising benefits of biofortification.
An amendment to this paper has been published and can be accessed via a link at the top of the paper.
Paspalum notatum exhibits both sexual and apomictic cytotypes and, thus, is considered a good model for studies of apomixis because it facilitates comparative approaches. In this work, transcriptome sequencing was used to compare contrasting P. notatum cytotypes to identify differential expression patterns and candidate genes involved in the regulation of expression of this trait. We built a comprehensive transcriptome using leaf and inflorescence from apomictic tetraploids and sexual diploids/tetraploids and a coexpression network based on pairwise correlations between transcript expression profiles. We identified genes exclusively expressed in each cytotype and genes differentially expressed between pairs of cytotypes. Gene Ontology enrichment analyses were performed to better interpret the data. We de novo assembled 114,306 reference transcripts. In total, 536 candidate genes possibly associated with apomixis were detected through statistical analyses of the differential expression data, and several interacting genes potentially linked to the apomixis-controlling region, genes that have already been reported in the literature, and their neighbors were transcriptionally related in the coexpression network. Apomixis is a highly desirable trait in modern agriculture due to the maintenance of the characteristics of the mother plant in the progeny. The reference transcriptome, candidate genes and their coexpression network identified in this work represent rich resources for future grass breeding programs.
Infection with Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) represents one of the main limitations for cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) productivity due to the severity of the disease symptoms, frequency of incidence, and difficulties in dissemination control. This study aimed to identify the proteins and metabolic pathways associated with the susceptibility and resistance of cowpea plants to CPSMV. Therefore, we treated the seeds of a naturally susceptible cowpea genotype (CE-31) with the mutagenic agent ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS) and compared the secondary leaf proteomic profile of the mutagenized resistant plants inoculated with CPSMV (MCPI plant group) to those of the naturally susceptible cowpea genotype CE-31 inoculated (CPI) and noninoculated (CPU) with CPSMV. MCPI responded to CPSMV by accumulating proteins involved in the oxidative burst, increasing H
Hyperlipidemia is closely related to oxidative stress, and it has been proved that the intake of legumes can protect the body from chronic diseases related to oxidative stress. In this study, we investigated the protective effects of mung beans and peas against high-fat-diet-induced rats. It was found that, with 50% addition of mung beans or peas, the intake of mung beans and peas could significantly restore the levels of serum total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Liver staining also showed that high-fat diet (HFD) led to liver lesions, whereas whole-grain intake could significantly relieve these symptoms. Compared with the HFD group, the antioxidant defense system and antioxidant gene expression in administered legume groups improved markedly. Furthermore, the antioxidant activities of the two legume extracts were determined. Characterization showed that the ethanol extracts of mung beans and peas possessed high antioxidant activities, for their ability to scavenge ABTS and DPPH, reduce Fe
Ethylene-response factor (ERF) proteins are members of a transcription factor family involved in plant growth and environmental stress responses, but the biological functions of ERF members in adzuki bean (Vigna angularis var. angularis) remain unknown. In addition, it is unclear whether these proteins have a role in regulating responses to abiotic stressors. Here, we identified 47 ERF genes by analyzing the adzuki bean genome. Whole-transcriptome analyses of plants under saline-alkaline stress suggested that the expression of 13 ERF genes was induced in response to saline-alkaline stress. Analysis of the cis-acting elements showed that the promoters of these saline-alkaline stress-inducible ERF genes contained LTRs, DREs, MYBs, ABREs, MYCs, CGTCA-, and TGACG-motifs, which are involved in abiotic stress responses. The expression of VaERF3 was induced by NaHCO
Meloidogyne incognita is a polyphagous plant-parasitic nematode that causes considerable yield loss in agricultural and horticultural crops. The management options available for M. incognita are extremely limited. Here we identified and characterised a M. incognita homolog of Caenorhabditis elegans sterol-binding protein (Mi-SBP-1), a transcriptional regulator of several lipogenesis pathway genes, and used RNA interference-mediated gene silencing to establish its utility as a target for the management of M. incognita. Mi-sbp-1 is predicted to be a helix-loop-helix domain containing DNA binding transcription factor, and is present in the M. incognita genome in three copies. The RNA-Seq analysis of Mi-sbp-1 silenced second stage juveniles confirmed the key role of this gene in lipogenesis regulation in M. incognita. In vitro and host-induced gene silencing of Mi-sbp-1 in M. incognita second stage juveniles resulted in loss of nematodes' ability to utilise the stored fat reserves, slower nematode development, and reduced parasitism on adzuki bean and tobacco plants. The multiplication factor for the Mi-sbp-1 silenced nematodes on adzuki bean plants was reduced by 51% compared with the control nematodes in which Mi-sbp-1 was not silenced. Transgenic expression of the double-stranded RNA construct of the Mi-sbp-1 gene in tobacco plants caused 40-45% reduction in M. incognita multiplication, 30-43.8% reduction in the number of egg masses, and 33-54% reduction in the number of eggs per egg mass compared with the wild type control plants. Our results confirm that Mi-sbp-1 is a key regulator of lipogenesis in M. incognita and suggest that it can be used as an effective target for its management. The findings of this study can be extended to develop methods to manage other economically important parasitic nematodes.
Transcriptional regulation is important for plants to respond to toxic effects of aluminium (Al). However, our current knowledge to these events is confined to a few transcription factors. Here, we functionally characterized a rice bean (Vigna umbellata) NAC-type transcription factor, VuNAR1, in terms of Al stress response. We demonstrated that rice bean VuNAR1 is a nuclear-localized transcriptional activator, whose expression was specifically upregulated by Al in roots but not in shoot. VuNAR1 overexpressing Arabidopsis plants exhibit improved Al resistance via Al exclusion. However, VuNAR1-mediated Al exclusion is independent of the function of known Al-resistant genes. Comparative transcriptomic analysis revealed that VuNAR1 specifically regulates the expression of genes associated with protein phosphorylation and cell wall modification in Arabidopsis. Transient expression assay demonstrated the direct transcriptional activation of cell wall-associated receptor kinase 1 (WAK1) by VuNAR1. Moreover, yeast one-hybrid assays and MEME motif searches identified a new VuNAR1-specific binding motif in the promoter of WAK1. Compared with wild-type Arabidopsis plants, VuNAR1 overexpressing plants have higher WAK1 expression and less pectin content. Taken together, our results suggest that VuNAR1 regulates Al resistance by regulating cell wall pectin metabolism via directly binding to the promoter of WAK1 and induce its expression.
The effects of exogenous spermidine and dicyclohexylamine (DCHA, spermidine synthesis inhibitor) on the antioxidative system and energy status of germinating mung bean were investigated. Results showed that exogenous spermidine increased the content of total phenolic and ascorbic acid and the antioxidative activity, but reduced activities and gene expressions of peroxidase (POD) and catalase (CAT). These changes might be explained by increased H
Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) caused by Cercospora canescens is an important disease of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). A previous study using an F
The aim of the present study was to characterize and evaluate the anti-cancer activity of proanthocyanidin-enriched fractions from adzuki beans. For this purpose, we concentrated proanthocyanidins from adzuki beans (
Insulin/insulin-like growth factor signaling (IIS) is known to mediate larval growth and adult reproduction in the legume pod borer, Maruca vitrata (Lepidoptera: Crambidae). Four IIS components (InR, FOXO, Akt, and TOR) play crucial roles in the IIS pathway. RNA interference (RNAi) against any of these four IIS component genes was effective in suppressing each target mRNA level by either hemocoelic injection or oral administration using gene-specific double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs). These RNAi treatments interfered with larval growth, leading to small pupae or significant larval mortality. For massive production of dsRNA, transformed bacteria expressing dsRNAs of these four IIS components were prepared with L4440 expression vector and HT115 strain of Escherichia coli. The transformed bacteria killed the larvae in a dose-dependent manner by feeding administration. An ultra-sonication pretreatment was performed to impair bacterial membrane and increase dsRNA release from the bacteria in insect intestine. This pretreatment increased the insecticidal activity of these recombinant bacteria. To further increase dsRNA toxicity, its mixture with Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) was prepared and showed significant increase of Bt insecticidal activity in the laboratory. The bacterial mixture also showed a high control efficacy (83.3%) in an adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) field infested by M. vitrata. Furthermore, such a dsRNA effect was specific for M. vitrata, but not for non-target insects. The bacteria expressing dsRNA specific to IIS components can be used to develop dsRNA insecticide. © 2019 Society of Chemical Industry.
Heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70), a 70-kDa protein, also known as a molecular chaperone, is highly conserved. It plays a major role in cellular functions such as protein folding, regulation of protein degradation, translocation of proteins across membranes, receptor signaling, and protein assembly or disassembly.
Galectins (GAL) are animal lectins that play important roles in the immune response through regulation of homeostasis and immune function. Bioactive polyphenols are able to bind and regulate galectins in inflammatory diseases. Cowpea is a nutritious and polyphenol-rich legume used as feed. The objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of cowpea polyphenol extract (CPE) on galectin gene transcription and translation in bovine peripheral blood. Blood from lactating cows (
Blackgram [Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper], is an important legume crop of Asia with limited genomic resources. We report a comprehensive set of genic simple sequence repeat (SSR) and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNPs) markers using Illumina MiSeq sequencing of transcriptome and its application in genetic variation analysis and mapping. Transcriptome sequencing of immature seeds of wild blackgram, V. mungo var. silvestris by Illumina MiSeq technology generated 1.9 × 10 In the present study, 1621genic-SSR and 1844 SNP markers were developed from immature seed transcriptome sequence of blackgram and 31 genic-SSR markers were used to study genetic variations among different blackgram accessions. Above developed markers contribute towards enriching available genomic resources for blackgram and aid in breeding programmes.
Drought impact on plants is an increasing concern under the climate change scenario. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) is considered as one of the most tolerant legume crops to drought, being the search for the best well-adapted genotypes crucial to face the future challenges. Different approaches have been used for differentiating plant responses to drought stress. Plants of four cowpea genotypes were submitted to three watering regimens (a severe and moderate drought stress, and well-watered control) during 15 days, and several physiological, biochemical and molecular parameters were evaluated. Stressed plants revealed commonly-described drought stress characteristics, but not all assayed parameters were useful for discriminating plants with different drought severities or genotypes. The analyses which have contributed most to genotype discrimination were those related with stomatal function, and biochemical markers such as proline and anthocyanin contents. Antioxidant enzymes activities and related genes expression did not differed among genotypes or upon drought stress treatments, suggesting that scavenging enzymes are not involved in the differential ability of cowpea plants to survive under drought stress. This information will be useful to evaluate and use genetic resources, as well as design strategies for breeding cowpea resistance to drought stress.
The exact roles of various granule-associated proteins (GAPs) of polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) are poorly investigated, particularly for bacteria associated with plants. In this study, four structural GAPs, named phasins PhaP1 to PhaP4, were identified and demonstrated as true phasins colocalized with PHB granules in
Isoflavones, such as Genistein (Ge) and Daidzein (Dz) are widely studied Phytoestrogens with potent anti-osteoporotic and good antioxidant activity. Cowpea is one such legume having high isoflavone content and hence we aimed at studying the beneficial effects of the isoflavones isolated from cowpea as it is widely accepted staple food in India. Previously, we reported the effect of Cowpea isoflavones (CP) and Vitamin D (VD) owing to its ability of improving the osteoporotic condition in a diet induced osteoporotic rat model. In the present study, we tried to explore the underlying mechanism of CP and VD along with positive controls Dz and Ge in influencing the functions of human osteoblasts at cellular level. Initially, MG-63 cells were assessed for the expression of genes involved in BMP-2 signaling pathway, like Bone morphogenic protein (BMP-2), transcription factor Osterix (OSX), total and phosphorylated Smad 1/5/8 levels and osteoblast specific genes levels namely Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), Osteopontin (OPN), and Collagen by immunoblot, flow cytometry, and quantitative RT-PCR studies. All the levels that were upregulated with the initial exposure of the compounds got inhibited after Noggin exposure a specific BMP-2 antagonist both at protein level and m-RNA level, except OSX where the expression was totally hindered in CP and Ge treated groups alone. Hence, CP and VD activate BMP-2/Smad signaling pathway and promote further proliferation and differentiation of osteoblasts. Therefore, results prove that isoflavones isolated from cowpea could be used in treating bone-related disorders.
Asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis) is a warm season legume which is widely distributed over subtropical regions and semiarid areas. It is mainly grown as a significant protein source in developing countries. Salinity, as one of the main abiotic stress factors, constrains the normal growth and yield of asparagus bean. This study used two cultivars (a salt-sensitive genotype and a salt-tolerant genotype) under salt stress vs. control to identify salt-stress-induced genes in asparagus bean using RNA sequencing. A total of 692,086,838 high-quality clean reads, assigned to 121,138 unigenes, were obtained from control and salt-treated libraries. Then, 216 root-derived DEGs (differentially expressed genes) and 127 leaf-derived DEGs were identified under salt stress between the two cultivars. Of these DEGs, thirteen were assigned to six transcription factors (TFs), including AP2/EREBP, CCHC(Zn), C2H2, WRKY, WD40-like and LIM. GO analysis indicated four DEGs might take effects on the "oxidation reduction", "transport" and "signal transduction" process. Moreover, expression of nine randomly-chosen DEGs was verified by quantitative real-time-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis. Predicted function of the nine tested DEGs was mainly involved in the KEGG pathway of cation transport, response to osmotic stress, and phosphorelay signal transduction system. A salt-stress-related pathway of "SNARE interactions in vesicular transport" was concerned. As byproducts, 15, 321 microsatellite markers were found in all the unigenes, and 17 SNP linked to six salt-stress induced DEGs were revealed. These candidate genes provide novel insights for understanding the salt tolerance mechanism of asparagus bean in the future.
Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV)-infection creates major hindrance in V. mungo cultivation and poses significant threat to other grain legume production. Symptoms associated include severe patho-physiological alterations characterized by chlorotic foliar lesion accompanied by reduced growth. However, dissection of the host's defense machinery remains a tough challenge due to limited of host's genomic resources. A comparative RNA-Seq transcriptomes of resistant (VM84) and susceptible (T9) plants was carried out to identify genes potentially involved in V. mungo resistance against MYMIV. Distinct gene expression landscapes were observed in VM84 and T9 with 2158 and 1679 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), respectively. Transcriptomic responses in VM84 reflect a prompt and intense immune reaction demonstrating an efficient pathogen surveillance leading to activation of basal and induced immune responses. Functional analysis of the altered DEGs identified multiple regulatory pathways to be activated or repressed over time. Up-regulation of DEGs including NB-LRR, WRKY33, ankyrin, argonaute and NAC transcription factor revealed an insight on their potential roles in MYMIV-resistance; and qPCR validation shows a propensity of their accumulation in VM84. Analyses of the current RNA-Seq dataset contribute immensely to decipher molecular responses that underlie MYMIV-resistance and will aid in the improvement strategy of V. mungo and other legumes through comparative functional genomics.
Human breast cancer is characterized by a high degree of inter-patients heterogeneity in terms of histology, genomic alterations, gene expression patterns, and metastatic behavior, which deeply influences individual prognosis and treatment response. The main cause of mortality in breast cancer is the therapy-resistant metastatic disease, which sets the priority for novel treatment strategies for these patients. In the present study, we demonstrate that Patient Derived Xenografts (PDXs) that were obtained from metastatic and therapy-resistant breast cancer samples recapitulate the wide spectrum of the disease in terms of histologic subtypes and mutational profiles, as evaluated by whole exome sequencing. We have integrated genomic and transcriptomic data to identify oncogenic and actionable pathways in each PDX. By taking advantage of primary short-term in vitro cultures from PDX tumors, we showed their resistance to standard chemotherapy (Paclitaxel), as seen in the patients. Moreover, we selected targeting drugs and analyzed PDX sensitivity to single agents or to combination of targeted and standard therapy on the basis of PDX-specific genomic or transcriptomic alterations. Our data demonstrate that PDXs represent a suitable model to test new targeting drugs or drug combinations and to prioritize personalized therapeutic regimens for pre-clinal and clinical tests.
Protein degradation and turnover under various environmental stresses is basically regulated by ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), of which SKP1 is a very essential component. Isolation and cloning of an identified potential stress responsive candidate gene SKP1, was successfully done for the first time to fathom the role of SKP1 in drought tolerance at genetic level in drought tolerant mungbean cultivar Pratap, which was screened after a detailed physio-biochemical screening amongst seven popular mungbean cultivars. The cloned gene SKP1 (accession number KX881912) is 550 bp in length, encodes 114 amino acids. It shows high sequence homology with SKP1 from Zea mays (NP_001148633). The protein expression of isolated SKP1 was confirmed by GUS fused expression using a Histochemical assay under control as well as under drought stress. Further, up-regulation in relative expression level of SKP1 in different plant parts under drought stress confirmed its utility as a potential drought responsive candidate gene certainly demanding extensive genetic research for further incorporation in breeding programs. Moreover, the structure of VrSKP1 (Vigna radiata SKP1) has been modelled, validated and an Essential Dynamics (ED) was done on the Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulation trajectories for filtering large-scale concerted motions. Free-energy calculations on the ED revealed a complex free-energy landscape (FEL) implying the conformational diversity of the modelled VrSPK1 protein.
Orphan genes (OGs) are genes that are restricted to a single species or a particular taxonomic group. To date, little is known about the functions of OGs in domesticated crops. Here, we report our findings on the relationships between OGs and environmental adaptation in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). We identified 578 expressed OGs, of which 73.2% were predicted to be non-coding. Transcriptomic analyses revealed a high rate of OGs that were drought inducible in roots when compared with conserved genes. Co-expression analysis further revealed the possible involvement of OGs in stress response pathways. Overexpression of UP12_8740, a drought-inducible OG, conferred enhanced tolerance to osmotic stresses and soil drought. By combining Capture-Seq and fluorescence-based Kompetitive allele-specific PCR (KASP), we efficiently genotyped single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on OGs across a 223 accession cowpea germplasm collection. Population genomic parameters, including polymorphism information content (PIC), expected heterozygosity (He), nucleotide diversity (π), and Tajima's D statistics, that were calculated based on these SNPs, showed distinct signatures between the grain- and vegetable-type subpopulations of cowpea. This study reinforces the idea that OGs are a valuable resource for identifying new genes related to species-specific environmental adaptations and fosters new insights that artificial selection on OGs might have contributed to balancing the adaptive and agronomic traits in domesticated crops in various ecoclimatic conditions.
To better understand the regulatory mechanism of phenolics and ascorbic acid accumulation as well as antioxidant activities in mung beans during legume development, the gene expression profiles of 25 key-coding genes in ascorbic acid and phenolics metabolic pathways were analyzed. As well as the dynamitic changes of ascorbic acid, phenolic profiles and antioxidant activities with legume development were studied. The results indicated that gene expression profiles were closely related to the ascorbic acid and phenolics accumulation regularity during legume development.
Thaumatin-like proteins (TLPs) are a highly complex protein family associated with host defense and developmental processes in plants, animals, and fungi. They are highly diverse in angiosperms, for which they are classified as the PR-5 (Pathogenesis-Related-5) protein family. In plants, TLPs have a variety of properties associated with their structural diversity. They are mostly associated with responses to biotic stresses, in addition to some predicted activities under drought and osmotic stresses. The present review covers aspects related to the structure, evolution, gene expression, and biotechnological potential of TLPs. The efficiency of the discovery of new TLPs is below its potential, considering the availability of omics data. Furthermore, we present an exemplary bioinformatics annotation procedure that was applied to cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) transcriptome, including libraries of two tissues (root and leaf), and two stress types (biotic/abiotic) generated using different sequencing approaches. Even without using genomic sequences, the pipeline uncovered 56 TLP candidates in both tissues and stresses. Interestingly, abiotic stress (root dehydration) was associated with a high number of modulated TLP isoforms. The nomenclature used so far for TLPs was also evaluated, considering TLP structure and possible functions identified to date. It is clear that plant TLPs are promising candidates for breeding purposes and for plant transformation aiming a better performance under biotic and abiotic stresses. The development of new therapeutic drugs against human fungal pathogens also deserves attention. Despite that, applications derived from TLP molecules are still below their potential, as it is evident in our review.
Germination and sprouting are regulated by the energy status. In the present study, mung bean seeds were treated with adenosine triphosphate and 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP). The metabolomic changes during development of mung beans under different energy statuses were investigated. In total, 42 metabolites were identified. Principal component analysis revealed that the featured compounds produced in seeds were oleic, linoleic, and succinic acids. Sugars, including maltose, sucrose, and glucose were related to sprouting. Mung bean seeds utilised diverse energy resources and produced higher succinic acid content. Sugars and secondary metabolites accumulated in sprouts. Nitrogen, sugar, and amino acid metabolism pathways contributed to this physiological process. DNP caused an energy deficit, which resulted in the consumption and translation of glucose. Higher contents of other saccharides and amino acids were observed. The transcriptional results further confirmed our metabolic hypothesis. In conclusion, sufficient energy supply is crucial for sprout development and nutritive metabolite synthesis.
Interferon-induced expression of programmed cell death ligands (PD-L1/PD-L2) may sustain tumour immune-evasion. Patients featuring MET amplification, a genetic lesion driving transformation, may benefit from anti-MET treatment. We explored if MET-targeted therapy interferes with Interferon-γ modulation of PD-L1/PD-L2 in MET-amplified tumours. PD-L1/PD-L2 expression and signalling pathways downstream of MET or Interferon-γ were analysed in MET-amplified tumour cell lines and in patient-derived tumour organoids, in basal condition, upon Interferon-γ stimulation, and after anti-MET therapy. PD-L1 and PD-L2 were upregulated in MET-amplified tumour cells upon Interferon-γ treatment. This induction was impaired by JNJ-605, a selective inhibitor of MET kinase activity, and MvDN30, an antibody inducing MET proteolytic cleavage. We found that activation of JAKs/ STAT1, signal transducers downstream of the Interferon-γ receptor, was neutralised by MET inhibitors. Moreover, JAK2 and MET associated in the same signalling complex depending on MET phosphorylation. Results were confirmed in MET-amplified organoids derived from human colorectal tumours, where JNJ-605 treatment revoked Interferon-γ induced PD-L1 expression. These data show that in MET-amplified cancers, treatment with MET inhibitors counteracts the induction of PD-1 ligands by Interferon-γ. Thus, therapeutic use of anti-MET drugs may provide additional clinical benefit over and above the intended inhibition of the target oncogene.
Heat shock transcription factors (Hsfs) are essential elements in plant signal transduction pathways that mediate gene expression in response to various abiotic stresses. Mungbean (
The establishment of symbiosis between legume and rhizobium results in the formation of nodule. Phytocyanins (PCs) are a class of plant-specific blue copper proteins, playing critical roles in plant development including nodule formation. Although a few PC genes have been isolated from nodules, their functions are still unclear. Here, we performed a genome-wide identification of PC family in seven sequenced legume species (Medicago truncatula, Glycine max, Cicer arietinum, Cajanus cajan, Lotus japonicus, Vigna angularis and Phaseolus vulgaris) and found PCs experienced a remarkable expansion in M. truncatula and G. max. Further, we conducted an in-depth analysis of PC family in the model legume M. truncatula. Briefly, 82 MtPCs were divided into four subfamilies and clustered into seven clades, with a large proportion of tandem duplications and various cross-tissues expression patterns. Importantly, some PCs, such as MtPLC1, MtENODL27 and MtENODL28 were preferentially expressed in nodules. Further, RNA interference (RNAi) experiment revealed the knockdown of MtENDOL27 and MtENDOL28 impaired rhizobia infection, nodule numbers and nitrogenase activity. Moreover, in the MtENODL27-RNAi nodules, the infected cells were reduced and the symbiosomes did not reach the elongated stage, indicating MtENDOL27 is required for rhizobia infection and nodule development. In addition, co-expression analysis showed MtPLC1, MtENODL27 and MtENODL28 were grouped into two different functional modules and co-expressed with the known symbiotic nitrogen fixation-related genes, suggesting that they might participate in nodulation via different ways. In summary, this study provides a useful resource for future researches on the structure and function of PCs in nodulation.
This study supports the idea that the evolution of type III secretion system (T3SS) is one of the factors that controls Vigna radiata-bradyrhizobia symbiosis. Based on phylogenetic tree data and gene arrangements, it seems that the T3SSs of the Thai bradyrhizobial strains SUTN9-2, DOA1, and DOA9 and the Senegalese strain ORS3257 may share the same origin. Therefore, strains SUTN9-2, DOA1, DOA9, and ORS3257 may have evolved their T3SSs independently from other bradyrhizobia, depending on biological and/or geological events. For functional analyses, the rhcJ genes of ORS3257, SUTN9-2, DOA9, and USDA110 were disrupted. These mutations had cultivar-specific effects on nodulation properties. The T3SSs of ORS3257 and DOA9 showed negative effects on V. radiata nodulation, while the T3SS of SUTN9-2 showed no effect on V. radiata symbiosis. In the roots of V. radiata CN72, the expression levels of the PR1 gene after inoculation with ORS3257 and DOA9 were significantly higher than those after inoculation with ORS3257 ΩT3SS, DOA9 ΩT3SS, and SUTN9-2. The T3Es from ORS3257 and DOA9 could trigger PR1 expression, which ultimately leads to abort nodulation. In contrast, the T3E from SUTN9-2 reduced PR1 expression. It seems that the mutualistic relationship between SUTN9-2 and V. radiata may have led to the selection of the most well-adapted combination of T3SS and symbiotic bradyrhizobial genotype.
Correlations between the transcriptional responses of genes that encode superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), and peroxiredoxin (Prx) enzymes and Colletotrichum gloeosporioides development in cowpea leaves were assessed. Each of these genes is involved in the redox metabolism and hydrogen peroxide balance. Although electron microscopy revealed that conidia adhered to and germinated on the leaf cuticle, the inoculated cowpea leaves did not show any characteristic anthracnose symptoms. The adhered and germinated conidia showed irregular surfaces and did not develop further. This was apparently due to increased leaf H
The results provide a significant verification of functional redundancy and diversity of CUC/NAM genes in legumes. The CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON/NO APICAL MERISTEM (CUC/NAM) orthologs play key roles for plant organ boundary formation and organ development. Here, we performed a forward screen of the gamma irradiation mutagenesis population in mungbean and characterised a mutant, reduced rachis and fused leaflets (rrf1), which gave rise to the formation of compound leaves with reduced rachis and fused leaflets. Map-based cloning revealed that RRF1 encoded a CUC/NAM protein in mungbean. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that legume CUC1/CUC2 genes were classified as belonging to two subclades, and there are different copies of CUC1/CUC2 genes in legumes. Transcriptomic analysis showed that expression levels of a set of developmental regulators, including class I KNOTTED-LIKE HOMEOBOXI (KNOXI) gene and LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES DOMAIN (LBD) gene, were altered in rrf1 mutants compared to the wild-type plants. Furthermore, rrf1 genetically interacted with heptafoliate leaflets1 (hel1), a mutant displaying a seven-leaflet compound leaf, to regulate leaf development in mungbean. Our results suggest functional redundancy and diversity of two subclades of CUC1/CUC2 genes in legumes, following the duplication of an ancestral gene.
Environmental stresses can reduce crop yield and quality considerably. Plants protect cell metabolism in response to abiotic stresses at all stages of their life cycle, including seed production. As the production of vigorous seeds is important to both yield and crop growth, we analyzed causes of yield loss and reduced grain quality in staple crops exposed to environmental stresses such as drought and temperature extremes, with a focus on the remobilization of nutrients and water status during seed filling. Because water is one of the factors that limit seed development, seeds must have mechanisms that allow them to withstand water loss during seed maturation. In addition, analysis of the effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on transcription regulation and signaling should help to elucidate the regulation of seed dormancy and germination. In this review, we focus on nutrient remobilization, water mobility, plant hormones (gibberellins, abscisic acid, and ethylene), and ROS in sink and source organs and describe how rice, wheat, barley, soybean, and cowpea plants control seed maturation and germination under environmental stresses.
Stem growth habit is a key plant architecture trait determining yield potential in grain legumes, and the phenotypic change from the indeterminate stem growth habit of wild mungbeans (Vigna radiata) to the determinate stem growth habit of cultivated mungbeans is a critical domestication transition. Here we show that indeterminate stem growth in wild mungbean is modulated by a single gene, VrDet1, which encodes a signaling protein of shoot apical meristems. The transition from an indeterminate to a determinate stem growth habit was achieved by selection of two linked point mutations in two putative cis-regulatory elements, resulting in a significant reduction in gene expression. Both the wild-type nucleotides corresponding to the two point mutations were essential for VrDet1 function. In addition, two highly diverse haplotypes of Vrdet1 were found in cultivated mungbeans, suggesting dual domestication of Vrdet1. VrDet1 was orthologous to Dt1 in wild soybean and PvTFL1y in wild common bean, where multiple loss-of-function mutations altering the coding sequences of individual genes were selected to produce determinate stems in cultivated accessions. Interspecific comparison of these orthologs in the wild and cultivated accessions reveals the most conservative interspecific and intraspecific parallel domestication events with the broadest mutational spectrum of a domestication trait in leguminous crops. We also found that interspecifically and functionally conserved promoters possess cis-regulatory elements that are highly conserved in kind but greatly variable in number and order, demonstrating the evolutionary dynamics of regulatory sequences. This work provides insights into the origins of cultivated mungbean and exemplifies the conservativeness and plasticity of the domestication processes of related crops.
The production of pure enzymes in high quantities is a proven strategy to study the catalytic mechanism as well as the solving of structure at the atomic scale for therapeutic or industrial purposes. Phospholipase D (PLD, EC 3.1.4.4) is found in a wide majority of living organisms and has been shown to be involved in signal transduction, vesicle trafficking, and membrane metabolism processes. Located at the membrane-cytoplasm interface, plant PLDs are soluble but also bear an evident hydrophobic aspect making challenging its expression and its purification in large quantity. So far there is no high-resolution three-dimensional structure for a eukaryotic PLD. The protocols herein describe the cloning of the eukaryotic recombinant PLDα of Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) into the yeast expression system Pichia pastoris and its two-step purification process. This allowed us to purify to homogeneity hundreds of micrograms of highly pure protein to conduct in fine structural studies.
Symbiotic nitrogen fixation between legumes and rhizobia involves a coordinated expression of many plant and bacterial genes as well as finely tuned metabolic activities of micro- and macrosymbionts. In spite of such complex interactions, symbiotic proficiency remains a resilient process, with host plants apparently capable of compensating for some deficiencies in rhizobia. What controls nodule homeostasis is still poorly understood and probably varies between plant species. In this respect, the promiscuous Sinorhizobium (Ensifer) fredii strain NGR234 has become a model to assess the relative contribution of single gene products to many symbioses. Here, we describe how a deletion in nifQ of NGR234 (strain NGRΔnifQ) makes nodules of Vigna unguiculata, V. radiata, and Macroptilium atropurpureum but not of the mimisoid tree Leucaena leucocephala, purple-red. This peculiar dark-nodule phenotype did not necessarily correlate with a decreased proficiency of NGRΔnifQ but coincided with a 20-fold or more accumulation of coproporphyrin III and uroporphyrin III in V. unguiculata nodules. Porphyrin accumulation was not restricted to plant cells infected with bacteroids but also extended to the nodule cortex. Nodule metal-homeostasis was altered but not sufficiently to prevent assembly and functioning of nitrogenase. Although the role of NifQ in donating molybdenum during assembly of nitrogenase cofactor FeMo-co makes it essential in free-living diazotrophs, our results highlight the dispensability of NifQ in many legume species.
Under conditions of aluminum (Al) toxicity, which severely inhibits root growth in acidic soils, plants rapidly alter their gene expression to optimize physiological fitness for survival. Abscisic acid (ABA) has been suggested as a mediator between Al stress and gene expression, but the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we investigated ABA-mediated Al-stress responses, using integrated physiological and molecular biology approaches. We demonstrate that Al stress caused ABA accumulation in the root apex of rice bean (Vigna umbellata [Thunb.] Ohwi & Ohashi), which positively regulated Al tolerance. However, this was not associated with known Al-tolerance mechanisms. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that nearly one-third of the responsive genes were shared between the Al-stress and ABA treatments. We further identified a transcription factor, ABI5, as being positively involved in Al tolerance. Arabidopsis abi5 mutants displayed increased sensitivity to Al, which was not related to the regulation of AtALMT1 and AtMATE expression. Functional categorization of ABI5-mediated genes revealed the importance of cell wall modification and osmoregulation in Al tolerance, a finding supported by osmotic stress treatment on Al tolerance. Our results suggest that ABA signal transduction pathways provide an additional layer of regulatory control over Al tolerance in plants.
Cowpea is an important horticultural crop in tropical and subtropical areas of Asia, Africa, and Latin America, as well as parts of southern Europe and Central and South America. Chilling injury is a common physiological hazard of cowpea in cold chain logistics which reduce the cowpea pods nutritional quality and product value. However, the molecular mechanism involved in chilling injury remains unclear in cowpea pods. RNA-Seq and sRNA-Seq technologies were employed to decipher the miRNAs and mRNAs expression profiles and their regulatory networks in cowpea pods involved in chilling stress. Differentially expressed miRNAs and mRNA profiles were obtained based on cluster analysis, miRNAs and target genes were found to show coherent relationships in the regulatory networks of chilling injury. Furthermore, we found that numerous miRNAs and nat-siRNAs' targets were predicted to be key enzymes involved in the redox reactions such as POD, CAT, AO and LOX, energy metabolism such as ATPase, FAD and NAD related enzymes and different transcription factors such as WRKY, bHLH, MYB, ERF and NAC which play important roles in chilling injury.
Merely touching the pancreas can lead to premature zymogen activation and pancreatitis but the mechanism is not completely understood. Here we demonstrate that pancreatic acinar cells express the mechanoreceptor Piezo1 and application of pressure within the gland produces pancreatitis. To determine if this effect is through Piezo1 activation, we induce pancreatitis by intrapancreatic duct instillation of the Piezo1 agonist Yoda1. Pancreatitis induced by pressure within the gland is prevented by a Piezo1 antagonist. In pancreatic acinar cells, Yoda1 stimulates calcium influx and induces calcium-dependent pancreatic injury. Finally, selective acinar cell-specific genetic deletion of Piezo1 protects mice against pressure-induced pancreatitis. Thus, activation of Piezo1 in pancreatic acinar cells is a mechanism for pancreatitis and may explain why pancreatitis develops following pressure on the gland as in abdominal trauma, pancreatic duct obstruction, pancreatography, or pancreatic surgery. Piezo1 blockade may prevent pancreatitis when manipulation of the gland is anticipated.
This work studied the cell transport of peptidase-generated peptides from cowpea bean proteins and their effects on mRNA expression of cholesterol-related genes in intestinal and liver cells. The ≤3 kDa hydrolysate was obtained and incubated with Caco-2 intestinal cells using Transwell® plates. HepG2 liver cells were incubated with synthetic analogues of peptides (MELNAVSVVHS and MELNAVSVVSH) identified by "de novo" peptide sequencing in the Caco-2 monolayer permeates. The mRNA expression of NPC1L1, ABCA1 and ABCG1 was measured in Caco-2 cells, in the presence or absence of ≤3 kDa hydrolysate and the expression of HMGCR, SREBP2, LXRα, AMPK1, was determined in the HepG2 cells in the presence or absence of synthetic peptides. Exposure of Caco-2 cells to cowpea ≤3 kDa hydrolysate (2.5 and 5 mg/mL) increased ABCG1 expression at 6 h and 12 h. SREBP2, HMGCR and LDLR mRNA levels were reduced in HepG2 cells after 24 h of treatment with MELNAVSVVHS peptide (50 μM and 100 μM). These results suggest that MELNAVSVVHS peptide is able to cross intestinal barrier and to modulate genes involved in cholesterol homeostasis.
The agricultural crops are often affected by the scarcity of fresh water. Seasonal drought is a major constraint on Northeast Indian agriculture. Almost 80% of the agricultural land in this region is acidic and facing severe drought during the winter period. Apart from classical breeding and transgenic approaches, the application of plant-growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) is an alternative strategy for improving plant fitness under stressful conditions. The 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase-producing PGPB offer drought stress tolerance by regulating plant ethylene levels. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the consortium effect of three ACC-deaminase producing rhizobacteria - Ochrobactrum pseudogrignonenseRJ12, Pseudomonas sp.RJ15 and Bacillus subtilisRJ46 on drought stress alleviation in Vigna mungo L. and Pisum sativum L. Consortium treatment significantly increase seed germination percentage, root length, shoot length, and dry weight of treated plants. An elevated production of reactive oxygen species scavenging enzymes and cellular osmolytes; higher leaf chlorophyll content; increase in relative water content and root recovery intension were observed after consortium treatment in comparison with the uninoculated plants under drought conditions. The consortium treatment decreased the ACC accumulation and down-regulated ACC-oxidase gene expression. This consortium could be an effective bio-formulator for crop health improvement in drought-affected acidic agricultural fields.
Plant glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are integral to normal plant metabolism and biotic and abiotic stress tolerance. The GST gene family has been characterized in diverse plant species using molecular biology and bioinformatics approaches. In the current study, in silico analysis identified 44 GSTs in Vigna radiata. Of the total 44 GSTs identified, chromosomal locations of 31 GSTs were confirmed. The pI value of GST proteins ranged from 5.10 to 9.40. The predicted molecular weights ranged from 13.12 to 50 kDa. Subcellular localization analysis revealed that all GSTs were predominantly localized in the cytoplasm. The active site amino acids were confirmed to be serine in tau, phi, theta, zeta, and TCHQD; cysteine in lambda, DHAR, and omega; and tyrosine in EF1G. The gene architecture conformed to the two-exon/one-intron and three-exon/two-intron organization in the case of tau and phi classes, respectively. MEME analysis identified 10 significantly conserved motifs with the width of 8-50 amino acids. The motifs identified were either specific to a specific GST class or were shared by multiple GST classes. The results of the current study will be of potential importance in the characterization of the GST gene family in V. radiata, an economically important leguminous crop.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is an important source of protein supply for animal and human nutrition. The major storage globulins VICILIN and LEGUMIN (LEG) are synthesized from several genes including LEGA, LEGB, LEGJ and CVC (CONVICILIN). The current hypothesis is that the plant circadian core clock genes are conserved in a wide array of species and that primary metabolism is to a large extent controlled by the plant circadian clock. Our aim was to investigate a possible link between gene expression of storage proteins and the circadian clock. We identified cowpea orthologues of the core clock genes VunLHY, VunTOC1, VunGI and VunELF3, the protein storage genes VunLEG, VunLEGJ, and VunCVC as well as nine candidate reference genes used in RT-PCR. ELONGATION FACTOR 1-A (ELF1A) resulted the most suitable reference gene. The clock genes VunELF3, VunGI, VunTOC1 and VunLHY showed a rhythmic expression profile in leaves with a typical evening/night and morning/midday phased expression. The diel patterns were not completely robust and only VungGI and VungELF3 retained a rhythmic pattern under free running conditions of darkness. Under field conditions, rhythmicity and phasing apparently faded during early pod and seed development and was regained in ripening pods for VunTOC1 and VunLHY. Mature seeds showed a rhythmic expression of VunGI resembling leaf tissue under controlled growth chamber conditions. Comparing time windows during developmental stages we found that VunCVC and VunLEG were significantly down regulated during the night in mature pods as compared to intermediate ripe pods, while changes in seeds were non-significant due to high variance. The rhythmic expression under field conditions was lost under growth chamber conditions. The core clock gene network is conserved in cowpea leaves showing a robust diel expression pattern except VunELF3 under growth chamber conditions. There appears to be a clock transcriptional reprogramming in pods and seeds compared to leaves. Storage protein deposition may be circadian regulated under field conditions but the strong environmental signals are not met under artificial growth conditions. Diel expression pattern in field conditions may result in better usage of energy for protein storage.
The effects of exogenous ATP on the postharvest quality, browning and softening of mung bean (Vigna radiata) sprouts were evaluated. ATP treatment significantly alleviated the quality loss and browning events during the storage of 3 days. It also reduced the oxidant damage by inducing high activities of peroxidase (9.3-13.9%) and superoxide dismutase (8.8-10.3%) which scavenged the reactive oxygen species (ROS) effectively. Transcriptional results indicated that ATP treatment decreased VrPL1, VrPME and VrPG1 gene expression levels more than 2 folds at some time points. Furthermore, the atomic force microscope (AFM) images revealed that the pectin degradation was notably slowed by ATP treatment and the width and height of pectin backbone were better maintained (47.1% and 45.6% higher than control without ATP treatment). The cooperative effects of ROS scavenging and decreased expressions of pectin-related genes might contribute to the deferred pectin deterioration and firmness loss by ATP treatment.
Mung bean and adzuki bean are warm-season legumes widely cultivated in China. However, bean production in major producing regions is limited by biotic and abiotic stress, such as drought and salt stress. Basic leucine zipper (bZIP) genes play key roles in responses to various biotic and abiotic stresses. However, only several bZIP genes involved in drought and salt stress in legumes, especially Vigna radiata and Vigna angularis, have been identified. In this study, we identified 54 and 50 bZIP proteins from whole-genome sequences of V. radiata and V. angularis, respectively. First, we comprehensively surveyed the characteristics of all bZIP genes, including their gene structure, chromosome distribution and motif composition. Phylogenetic trees showed that VrbZIP and VabZIP proteins were divided into ten clades comprising nine known and one unknown subgroup. The results of the nucleotide substitution rate of the orthologous gene pairs showed that bZIP proteins have undergone strong purifying selection: V. radiata and V. angularis diverged 1.25 million years ago (mya) to 9.20 mya (average of 4.95 mya). We also found that many cis-acting regulatory elements (CAREs) involved in abiotic stress and plant hormone responses were detected in the putative promoter regions of the bZIP genes. Finally, using the quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) method, we performed expression profiling of the bZIP genes in response to drought, salt and abscisic acid (ABA). We identified several bZIP genes that may be involved in drought and salt responses. Generally, our results provided useful and rich resources of VrbZIP and VabZIP genes for the functional characterization and understanding of bZIP transcription factors (TFs) in warm-season legumes. In addition, our results revealed important and interesting data - a subset of VrbZIP and VabZIP gene expression profiles in response to drought, salt and ABA stress. These results provide gene expression evidence for the selection of candidate genes under drought and salt stress for future study.
Aluminum (Al)-induced organic acid secretion from the root apex is an important Al resistance mechanism. However, it remains unclear how plants fine-tune root organic acid secretion which can contribute significantly to the loss of fixed carbon from the plant. Here, we demonstrate that Al-induced citrate secretion from the rice bean root apex is biphasic, consisting of an early phase with low secretion and a later phase of large citrate secretion. We isolated and characterized VuMATE2 as a possible second citrate transporter in rice bean functioning in tandem with VuMATE1, which we previously identified. The time-dependent kinetics of VuMATE2 expression correlates well with the kinetics of early phase root citrate secretion. Ectopic expression of VuMATE2 in Arabidopsis resulted in increased root citrate secretion and Al resistance. Electrophysiological analysis of Xenopus oocytes expressing VuMATE2 indicated VuMATE2 mediates anion efflux. However, the expression regulation of VuMATE2 differs from VuMATE1. While a protein translation inhibitor suppressed Al-induced VuMATE1 expression, it releases VuMATE2 expression. Yeast one-hybrid assays demonstrated that a previously identified transcription factor, VuSTOP1, interacts with the VuMATE2 promoter at a GGGAGG cis-acting motif. Thus, we demonstrate that plants adapt to Al toxicity by fine-tuning root citrate secretion with two separate root citrate transport systems.
We are proposing mechanisms to account for the loss of viability (seed deterioration/ageing) and enhancement in seed quality (post-storage priming treatment). In order to understand the regulatory mechanism of these traits, we conducted controlled deterioration (CD) test for up to 8 d using primed mung bean seeds and examined how CD effects the expression of many genes, regulating the seed metabolism in relation to CD and priming. Germination declined progressively with increased duration of CD, and the priming treatment completely/partially reversed the inhibition depending on the duration of CD. The loss of germination capacity by CD was accompanied by a reduction in total RNA content and RNA integrity, indicating that RNA quantity and quality impacts seed longevity. Expression analysis revealed that biosynthesis genes of GA, ethylene, ABA and ROS-scavenging enzymes were differentially affected in response to duration of CD and priming, suggesting coordinately regulated mechanisms for controlling the germination capacity of seeds by modifying the permeability characteristics of biological membranes and activities of different enzymes. ABA genes were highly expressed when germination was delayed and inhibited by CD. Whereas, GA and ethylene genes were more highly expressed when germination was enhanced and permitted by priming under similar conditions. GSTI, a well characterized enzyme family involved in stress tolerance, was expressed in primed seeds over the period of CD, suggesting an additional protection against deterioration. The results are discussed in light of understanding the mechanisms underlying longevity/priming which are important issues economically and ecologically.
Cowpea is one of the most important food and forage legumes in drier regions of the tropics and subtropics. However, cowpea yield worldwide is markedly below the known potential due to abiotic and biotic stresses, including parasitism by root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp., RKN). Two resistance genes with dominant effect, Rk and Rk2, have been reported to provide resistance against RKN in cowpea. Despite their description and use in breeding for resistance to RKN and particularly genetic mapping of the Rk locus, the exact genes conferring resistance to RKN remain unknown. In the present work, QTL mapping using recombinant inbred line (RIL) population 524B x IT84S-2049 segregating for a newly mapped locus and analysis of the transcriptome changes in two cowpea near-isogenic lines (NIL) were used to identify candidate genes for Rk and the newly mapped locus. A major QTL, designated QRk-vu9.1, associated with resistance to Meloidogyne javanica reproduction, was detected and mapped on linkage group LG9 at position 13.37 cM using egg production data. Transcriptome analysis on resistant and susceptible NILs 3 and 9 days after inoculation revealed up-regulation of 109 and 98 genes and down-regulation of 110 and 89 genes, respectively, out of 19,922 unique genes mapped to the common bean reference genome. Among the differentially expressed genes, four and nine genes were found within the QRk-vu9.1 and QRk-vu11.1 QTL intervals, respectively. Six of these genes belong to the TIR-NBS-LRR family of resistance genes and three were upregulated at one or more time-points. Quantitative RT-PCR validated gene expression to be positively correlated with RNA-seq expression pattern for eight genes. Future functional analysis of these cowpea genes will enhance our understanding of Rk-mediated resistance and identify the specific gene responsible for the resistance.
Vigna mungo (L.)Hepper is an economically important leguminous crop in south-east Asia. However, its production is severely affected by Mungbean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV). It is well established that methyl jasmonate (MeJA) is effective in inducing resistance against pathogens in several plants. To assess the role of MeJA in developing MYMIV tolerance in V. mungo, we analysed time-dependent biochemical and molecular responses of MYMIV susceptible V. mungo after exogenous application of different MeJA concentrations, followed by MYMIV infection. Our analysis revealed that exogenous application of different concentrations of MeJA resulted in decreased levels of malondialdehyde with higher membrane stability index values in MYMIV susceptible V. mungo, suggesting the protective role of MeJA through restoring the membrane stability. Moreover, the level of expression of different antioxidative enzymes revealed that exogenous MeJA is also very effective in ROS homeostasis maintenance. Enhanced expressions of the defence marker genes lipoxygenase and phenylalanine ammonia-lyase and the reduced expression of the MYMIV coat-protein encoding gene in all MeJA treated plants post MYMIV infection revealed that exogenous application of MeJA is effective for MYMIV tolerance in V. mungo. Our findings provide new insights into the physiological and molecular mechanisms of MYMIV tolerance in Vigna induced by MeJA.
We report a linkage map for Apios americana and describe synteny with selected warm-season legumes. A translocation event in common bean and soybean is confirmed against Apios and Vigna species. Apios (Apios americana; "apios"), a tuberous perennial legume in the Phaseoleae tribe, was widely used as a food by Native Americans. Work in the last 40 years has led to several improved breeding lines. Aspects of the pollination biology (complex floral structure and tripping mechanism) have made controlled crosses difficult, and the previous reports indicated that the plant is likely primarily an outcrosser. We used a pseudo-testcross strategy to construct a genetic map specific to the maternal parent. The map was built using single-nucleotide polymorphism markers identified by comparing the expressed sequences of individuals in the mapping population against a de novo maternal reference transcriptome assembly. The apios map consists of 11 linkage groups and 1121 recombinationally distinct loci, covering ~ 938.6 cM. By sequencing the transcriptomes of all potential pollen parents, we were able to identify the probable pollen donors and to discover new aspects of the pollination biology in apios. No selfing was observed, but multiple pollen parents were seen within individual pods. Comparisons with genome sequences in other species in the Phaseoleae showed extended synteny for most apios linkage groups. This synteny supports the robustness of the map, and also sheds light on the history of the Phaseoleae, as apios is relatively early diverging in this tribe. We detected a translocation event that separates apios and two Vigna species from Phaseolus vulgaris and Glycine max. This apios mapping work provides a general protocol for sequencing-based construction of high-density linkage maps in outcrossing species with heterogeneous pollen parents.
Many landraces of cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] are adapted to particular geographical and climatic conditions. Here we describe two landraces grown respectively in arid and temperate areas of Algeria and assess their physiological and molecular responses to drought stress. As expected, when deprived of water cowpea plants lose water over time with a gradual reduction in transpiration rate. The landraces differed in their relative water content (RWC) and whole plant transpiration rate. The landrace from Menia, an arid area, retained more water in adult leaves. Both landraces responded to drought stress at the molecular level by increasing expression of stress-related genes in aerial parts, including proline metabolism genes. Expression of gene(s) encoding proline synthesis enzyme P5CS was up regulated and gene expression of ProDH, a proline catabolism enzyme, was down regulated. Relatively low amounts of proline accumulated in adult leaves with slight differences between the two landraces. During drought stress the most apical part of plants stayed relatively turgid with a high RWC compared to distal parts that wilted. Expression of key stress genes was higher and more proline accumulated at the apex than in distal leaves indicating that cowpea has a non-uniform stress response at the whole plant level. Our study reveals a developmental control of water stress through preferential proline accumulation in the upper tier of the cowpea plant. We also conclude that cowpea landraces display physiological adaptations to water stress suited to the arid and temperate climates in which they are cultivated.
Yellow Mosaic Disease caused by the begomovirus Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV) severely affects many economically important legumes. Recent investigations in Vigna mungo - MYMIV incompatible interaction identified a MAPK homolog in the defense signaling pathway. An important branch of immunity involves phosphorylation by evolutionary conserved Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) that transduce signals of pathogen invasion to downstream molecules leading to diverse immune responses. However, most of the knowledge of MAPKs is derived from model crops, and functions of these versatile kinases are little explored in legumes. Here we report characterization of a MAP kinase (VmMAPK1), which was induced upon MYMIV-inoculation in resistant V. mungo. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that VmMAPK1 is closely related to other plant-stress-responsive MAPKs. Both mRNA and protein of VmMAPK1 were accumulated upon MYMIV infection. The VmMAPK1 protein localized in the nucleus as well as cytoplasm and possessed phosphorylation activity in vitro. A detailed biochemical characterization of purified recombinant VmMAPK1 demonstrated an intramolecular mechanism of autophosphorylation and self-catalyzed phosphate incorporation on both threonine and tyrosine residues. The V
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated phosphorylation cascade is a vital component of plant cellular signalling. Despite this, MAPK signalling cascade is less characterized in crop legumes. To fill this void, we present here a comprehensive phylogeny of MAPK kinases (MKKs) and MAPKs identified from 16 legume species belonging to genistoid (Lupinus angustifolius), dalbergioid (Arachis spp.), phaseoloid (Glycine max, Cajanus cajan, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Vigna spp.), and galegoid (Cicer arietinum, Lotus japonicus, Medicago truncatula, Pisum sativum, Trifolium spp., and Vicia faba) clades. Using the genes of the diploid crop chickpea (C. arietinum), an exhaustive interaction analysis was performed between MKKs and MAPKs by split-ubiquitin based yeast two-hybrid (Y2H). Twenty seven interactions of varying strengths were identified between chickpea MKKs and MAPKs. These interactions were verified in planta by bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). As a first report in plants, four intra-molecular interactions of weak strength were identified within chickpea MKKs. Additionally; two TEOSINTE-BRANCHED1/CYCLOIDEA/PCF (TCP) transcription factors of class I were identified as novel down-stream interacting partners of seven MAPKs. We propose that this highly reliable MAPK interaction network, presented here for chickpea, can be utilized as a reference for legumes and thus will help in deciphering their role in legume-specific events.
Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is one of the most important legumes in tropical and semi-arid regions. However, there is relatively little genomic information available for genetic research on and breeding of cowpea. The objectives of this study were to analyse the cowpea transcriptome and develop genic molecular markers for future genetic studies of this genus. Approximately 54 million high-quality cDNA sequence reads were obtained from cowpea based on Illumina paired-end sequencing technology and were de novo assembled to generate 47,899 unigenes with an N50 length of 1534 bp. Sequence similarity analysis revealed 36,289 unigenes (75.8%) with significant similarity to known proteins in the non-redundant (Nr) protein database, 23,471 unigenes (49.0%) with BLAST hits in the Swiss-Prot database, and 20,654 unigenes (43.1%) with high similarity in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database. Further analysis identified 5560 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) as potential genic molecular markers. Validating a random set of 500 SSR markers yielded 54 polymorphic markers among 32 cowpea accessions. This transcriptomic analysis of cowpea provided a valuable set of genomic data for characterizing genes with important agronomic traits in Vigna unguiculata and a new set of genic SSR markers for further genetic studies and breeding in cowpea and related Vigna species.
The transport of proteins across the intestinal epithelium of insects is still not well understood. There is evidence that vicilin, a major storage protein of cowpea seeds (Vigna unguiculata), is internalized in larvae of the seed-beetle Callosobruchus maculatus. It has been reported that this vicilin interacts with proteins present in the microvillar membranes of columnar cells along the digestive tract of the larvae. In the present work, we studied the cellular pathway involved in endocytosis of vicilin in larval C. maculatus by employing ex vivo experiments. In the ex vivo approach, we incubated FITC-labelled vicilin with isolated midgut wholemounts in the absence or in the presence of endocytosis inhibitors. The fate of labelled or non-labelled globulins was monitored by confocal microscopy and fluorescence measurement. Our results suggest that the internalization of vicilins is due to receptor-mediated endocytosis. Here we report the identity of a microvillar vicilin-binding protein that was purified using affinity chromatography on a vicilin-sepharose column. The putative vicilin receptor showed high homology to proteins with the CRAL-TRIO domain, specifically the Sec14 superfamily member α-tocopherol transfer protein. The precise mechanism involved in vicilin internalization was defined through the use of specific inhibitors of the endocytosis pathway. The inhibitors filipin III and nystatin significantly inhibited the endocytosis of vicilin, while chlorpromazine and phenylarsine oxide had a much lower effect on endocytosis, suggesting that the endocytic pathway is predominantly mediated by caveolin.
Extracellular nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolases (NTPDases) are enzymes that hydrolyze extracellular nucleotides to the respective monophosphate nucleotides. In the past 20 years, NTPDases belonging to mammalian, parasitic and prokaryotic domains of life have been discovered, cloned and characterized. We reveal the first structures of NTPDases from the legume plant species Trifolium repens (7WC) and Vigna unguiculata subsp. cylindrica (DbLNP). Four crystal structures of 7WC and DbLNP were determined at resolutions between 1.9 and 2.6 Å. For 7WC, structures were determined for an -apo form (1.89 Å) and with the product AMP (2.15 Å) and adenine and phosphate (1.76 Å) bound. For DbLNP, a structure was solved with phosphate and manganese bound (2.60 Å). Thorough kinetic data and analysis is presented. The structure of 7WC and DbLNP reveals that these NTPDases can adopt two conformations depending on the molecule and co-factor bound in the active site. A central hinge region creates a "butterfly-like" motion of the domains that reduces the width of the inter-domain active site cleft upon molecule binding. This phenomenon has been previously described in Rattus norvegicus and Legionella pneumophila NTPDaseI and Toxoplasma gondii NTPDaseIII suggesting a common catalytic mechanism across the domains of life.
Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) causes significant losses in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) production. In this present study biochemical, physiological, and proteomic analysis were done to identify pathways and defense proteins that are altered during the incompatible interaction between the cowpea genotype BRS-Marataoã and CPSMV. The leaf protein extracts from mock- (MI) and CPSMV-inoculated plantlets (V) were evaluated at 2 and 6days post-inoculation (DPI). Data support the assumptions that increases in biochemical (high hydrogen peroxide, antioxidant enzymes, and secondary compounds) and physiological responses (high photosynthesis index and chlorophyll content), confirmed by label-free comparative proteomic approach, in which quantitative changes in proteasome proteins, proteins related to photosynthesis, redox homeostasis, regulation factors/RNA processing proteins were observed may be implicated in the resistance of BRS-Marataoã to CPSMV. This pioneering study provides information for the selection of specific pathways and proteins, altered in this incompatible relationship, which could be chosen as targets for detailed studies to advance our understanding of the molecular, physiological, and biochemistry basis of the resistance mechanism of cowpea and design approachs to engineer plants that are more productive. This is a pioneering study in which an incompatible relationship between a resistant cowpea and Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) was conducted to comparatively evaluate proteomic profiles by Gel-free/label-free methodology and some physiological and biochemical parameters to shed light on how a resistant cowpea cultivar deals with the virus attack. Specific proteins and associated pathways were altered in the cowpea plants challenged with CPSMV and will contribute to our knowledge on the biological process tailored by cowpea in response to CPSMV.
The MYB gene family represents one of the largest groups of transcription factors in plants. Recent evidences have also demonstrated key role of MYB transcription factors in regulating the expression of major genes involved in the biosynthesis of phenylpropanoid compounds which confer biotic and abiotic stress tolerance in plant species. However, no comprehensive genome-wide analysis of the phenylpropanoid pathway-associated MYB transcription factors has been reported thus far. In this study, 11 Arabidopsis MYB proteins, such as MYB3, MYB4, MYB7, MYB11, MYB12, MYB32, MYB75, MYB90, MYB111, MYB113, and MYB114 were initially identified considering their reported regulatory function in phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway. Subsequent genome-wide analysis have identified the corresponding homologues from Glycine max, Vigna radiata, Oryza sativa, and Zea mays, while homologous of Arabidopsis MYB75, MYB90, MYB113, and MYB114 were not detected in rice and maize genomes. The identified MYB proteins were classified into three groups (I-III) based on phylogeny. Sequence and domain analysis revealed presence of two conserved DNA binding MYB domains in the selected MYB proteins. Promoter analysis indicated presence of cis-regulatory elements related to light signaling, development, and stress response. Expression analysis of selected Arabidopsis MYB genes revealed their function in plant development and abiotic stress response, consistent with gene ontology annotations. Together, these results provide a useful framework for further experimental studies for the functional characterization of the target MYB genes in the context of regulation of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and plant stress response.
Environmental changes generate free radicals and reactive oxygen species (ROS) resulting in abiotic stress in plants. This causes alterations in germination, morphology, growth and development ultimately leading to yield loss. Gamma irradiation was used to experimentally induce oxidative damage in an important pulse crop Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek or mung bean. Our research was aimed towards augmentation of oxidative stress tolerance through treatment with a group of aliphatic amines known as polyamines. We used sub-lethal doses of gamma irradiation to generate oxidative damage which was evaluated using Nitro blue tetrazolium (NBT) staining, total antioxidant activity, 1, 1-Diphenyl-2-picryl hydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging assay, proline content and lipid peroxidation. Changes in internal free polyamines and messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression of key rate-limiting S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (SAMDC) enzyme in polyamine biosynthetic pathway was studied using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). We observed increased oxidative damage with higher irradiation dose which was partially alleviated by putrescine treatment. Internal levels of putrescine and spermidine increased with 1 mM (50 and 100 Gy) and 2 mM putrescine treatment. Expression of SAMDC also increased with putrescine treatment. This study shows that treatment with putrescine can partially alleviate oxidative damage caused by gamma rays.
Black gram (Vigna mungo) seeds are a rich source of digestible proteins, however, during storage these seeds are severely damaged by bruchids (Callosobruchus spp.), reducing seed quality and yield losses. Most of the cultivated genotypes of black gram are susceptible to bruchids, however, few tolerant genotypes have also been identified but the mechanism of tolerance is poorly understood. We employed Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH) to identify specifically, but rarely expressed bruchid egg induced genes in black gram. In this study, Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH) library was constructed to study the genes involved in defense response in black gram against bruchid infestation. An EST library of 277 clones was obtained for further analyses. Based on CAP3 assembly, 134 unigenes were computationally annotated using Blast2GOPRO software. In all, 20 defense related genes were subject to quantitative PCR analysis (qPCR) out of which 12 genes showed up-regulation in developing seeds of the pods oviposited by bruchids. Few major defense genes like defensin, pathogenesis related protein (PR), lipoxygenase (LOX) showed high expression levels in the oviposited population when compared with the non-oviposited plants. This is the first report on defense related gene transcript dynamics during the bruchid-black gram interaction using SSH library. This library would be useful to clone defense related gene(s) such as defensin as represented in our library for crop improvement.
Two cysteine proteinase inhibitors from cowpea, VuCys1 and VuCys2, were produced in E. coli ArcticExpress (DE3). The recombinant products strongly inhibited papain and chymopapain as well as the midgut proteases from Callosobruchus maculatus larvae, a bruchid that uses cysteine proteases as major digestive enzymes. Heat treatment at 100°C for up to 60min or incubation at various pH values caused little reduction in the papain inhibitory activity of both inhibitors. Moreover, minor conformational variations, as probed by circular dichroism spectroscopy, were observed after VuCys1 and VuCys2 were subjected to these treatments. The crystal structure of VuCys1 was determined at a resolution of 1.95Å, revealing a domain-swapped dimer in the asymmetric unit. However, the two lobes of the domain-swapped dimer are positioned closer to each other in VuCys1 in comparison to other similar cystatin structures. Moreover, some polar residues from opposite lobes recruit water molecules, forming a hydrogen bond network that mediates contacts between the lobes, thus generating an extended open interface. Due to the closer distance between the lobes, a small hydrophobic core is also formed, further stabilizing the folded domain-swapped dimer. These structural features might account for the extraordinary thermal and pH stability of VuCys1.
Host specialization is an ubiquitous character in aphid populations. Many polyphagous aphid populations usually consist of several subpopulations that have strong fidelity to a specific host or a subset of host range. Host specialization is an evolutional result of food habit of insects. However, genetic basis and molecular mechanism of host specialization are still unclear. In this study, we presented a comparative analysis on global gene expression profiles of three lineages of Aphis gossypii Glover: cotton-specialized (CO), cucurbit-specialized (CU), and CU reared on cowpea (CU-cowpea), using RNA-Seq method. More than 157 million clean reads and 38,398 different unigenes were generated from transcriptomes of these three aphid lineages. The 1,106 down- and 2,835 up-regulated genes were found between CO and CU, and 812 down- and 14,492 up-regulated genes between CU-cowpea and CU. Differentially expressed genes between CO and CU were enriched in sugar metabolism, immune system process, pathogen infection or symbiosis, and salivary secretion. Genes associated with cytochrome P450, major facilitator superfamily, and salivary effector were differentially expressed between CO and CU, which might be involved in determining host specialization. UDP-glycosyltransferases genes were sensitive to host shift. Carboxylesterases and digestion-related protease genes were related to both the host specialization and host shift of aphids. Expression levels of 22 out of 24 genes of CO and CU measured by RT-qPCR method were as similar as the results from RNA-seq method. This study provides a road map for future study on molecular mechanism of host specialization in aphids.
Lead (Pb) is one of the most toxic anthropogenic pollutants, occurring widely in both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, where it impairs plant growth and development. In this work, the effect of 0.5 mM EDTA-Pb was evaluated in two Vigna unguiculata cultivars (SV and SET), with the aim of detecting genotype/cultivar dependent changes in the physiological and anti-oxidant responses (CAT and APX) of a leguminous plant. The data showed that SV accumulated more Pb in roots while SET accumulated more in leaves, indicating differential regulation in Pb-translocation/accumulation. Lead affected the growth of SV less severely than SET, mainly associated with reduced inhibition in photosynthetic parameters. Furthermore, CAT and APX activities increased or were sustained at elevated levels in both cultivars in response to lead. However, gene expression analyses revealed that CAT1 was the main lead responsive gene in SET while CAT2 was more responsive in SV. APX1 was higher expressed in tissues with higher Pb-accumulation while APX2 was ubiquitously responsive to lead in both cultivars. Taken together, these results reveal differential ability of V. unguiculata cultivars in Pb-accumulation in different tissues affecting distinctly physiological and anti-oxidant responses. In addition, the existence of cultivars with predominant Pb-accumulation in aerial tissues invokes a need for studies to identify pollution-safe cultivars of leguminous plants to ensure food safety.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are 20-24 nucleotides long non-coding RNAs known to play important regulatory roles during biotic and abiotic stresses by controlling gene expression. Blackgram (Vigna mungo), an economically important grain legume is highly susceptible to pathogenic begomovirus Mungbean Yellow Mosaic India Virus (MYMIV) and resulting in high yield loss. In this study two different leaf-small-RNA libraries were prepared from the pooled RNA at three different time points of resistant V. mungo inbred line VM84 inoculated either with viruliferous or non-viruliferous whiteflies carrying MYMIV and performed high-throughput Illumina sequencing. Sequencing followed by bioinformatics analysis of the small RNA reads indicated that the expression patterns of most of the known and novel miRNAs were altered in resistant line over mock-inoculated sample during the plant virus incompatible interaction. Highly altered miRNAs belong to the families of miR156, miR159, miR160, miR166, miR398, miR1511, miR1514, miR2118 and novel vmu-miRn7, vmu-miRn8, vmu-miRn13 and vmu-miRn14. These results were validated using qPCR, and most of the miRNAs showed similar pattern of expression like that of Illumina reads. The expression patterns of some selected known and novel miRNAs were also compared between the infected MYMIV-resistant and -susceptible genotypes and most of these were modulated after MYMIV-inoculation. Target transcripts like NB-LRR, NAC, MYB, Zinc finger, CCAAT-box transcription factor, fructose 2-6 bisphosphate, HDZIP protein that confers immune response were predicted as targets amongst identified miRNAs using psRNATarget server. Some selected target transcripts including NB-LRR, ARF, SOD, SPB, Basic blue copper protein were validated and their differential expression were demonstrated between MYMIV-resistant and -susceptible V. mungo by qPCR data analyses. In the present study we have identified miRNAs that implicate in the regulation of MYMIV-induced stress response in V. mungo; and generated genomic resources for a non-model legume with the aid of bioinformatics tools supplemented by experimental validation.
Global interest in sugarcane has increased significantly in recent years because of its economic impact on sustainable energy production. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate changes in the concentrations of total sugars, amino acids, free proline, and total proteins by colorimetric analyses and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) to perform a metabolic profiling of a water-soluble fraction of symplastic sap in response to the constitutive expression of a mutant Δ
Hydrogen peroxide (H RNA-Seq data revealed that H Using RNA-Seq and qRT-PCR techniques, we analysed the global changes in gene expression and functional profiling during H
Cowpea is a grain legume native from Africa and is a primary source of protein for millions of people in sub-Saharan Africa and other parts of the developing world. The main important characteristics of this crop include a good protein quality with a high nutritional value, its nitrogen-fixing ability, and an ability to be more drought- and heat-tolerant than most of its legume relatives. In a research perspective, studies of cowpea are relatively scarce, despite its relevance to agriculture in the developing world and its resilience to stress. The present review provides an overview of different aspects of cowpea, with a special emphasis on the molecular markers for assessing genetic diversity, as well as on biochemical and transcriptomic data with respect to evaluating cowpea drought stress tolerance. The integration of both datasets will be useful for the improvement of cowpea because research on drought stress tolerance is of major interest for this crop in a challenging environment. © 2017 Society of Chemical Industry.
Cereals and legumes are traditionally consumed together in many cultures, and may provide complementary health benefits beyond what is known about improved indispensable amino acid intake. Here, we use an in vitro model of inflammatory pathways to investigate whether the different flavonoids in sorghum and cowpea could synergistically reduce inflammation. Interactive effect of combining apigenin and quercetin, as well as extracts (70% acetone, v/v) from a flavone-dominated white sorghum and flavonol-dominated white cowpea, against LPS-induced NF-κB and downstream cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8) gene and protein expression was evaluated using the CCD18Co colon myofibroblasts. Combination of apigenin and quercetin, and sorghum and cowpea extracts synergistically downregulated LPS-induced NF-κB gene and protein expression in a dose-dependent manner, with additive effect producing IC Combining the structurally related cereal flavones and legume flavonols elicit strong synergistic anti-inflammatory response in LPS-stimulated nonmalignant colonocytes, likely by targeting interdependent mechanisms.
DNA methylation on cytosine residues is known to affect gene expression and is potentially responsible for the phenotypic variations among different crop cultivars. Here, we present the whole-genome DNA methylation profiles and assess the potential effects of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for two mungbean cultivars, Sunhwanogdu (VC1973A) and Kyunggijaerae#5 (V2984). By measuring the DNA methylation levels in leaf tissue with the bisulfite sequencing (BSseq) approach, we show both the frequencies of the various types of DNA methylation and the distribution of weighted gene methylation levels. SNPs that cause nucleotide changes from/to CHH - where C is cytosine and H is any other nucleotide - were found to affect DNA methylation status in VC1973A and V2984. In order to better understand the correlation between gene expression and DNA methylation levels, we surveyed gene expression in leaf tissues of VC1973A and V2984 using RNAseq. Transcript expressions of paralogous genes were controlled by DNA methylation within the VC1973A genome. Moreover, genes that were differentially expressed between the two cultivars showed distinct DNA methylation patterns. Our mungbean genome-wide methylation profiles will be valuable resources for understanding the phenotypic variations between different cultivars, as well as for molecular breeding.
The potential benefits of Aspergillus-fermented mung bean seed coats (FMSC) for weaned pigs remain unexplored. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments were employed to evaluate the potential of FMSC supplement on the growth, antioxidant and immune responses of weaned pigs. The total polyphenols and DPPH scavenging capability of ethanol extract of FMSC exhibited a greater (p < 0.01) increase than those of pre-fermentation. With the addition of the polyphenol of FMSC extract, an increase in phagocytosis by neutrophils and proliferation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were found. However, these observations were significantly inhibited (p < 0.05) in those activated cells. Next, 96 weaned pigs were allotted with a randomized complete block design into four dietary treatments, including 0 (control), 600, 1200 or 1800 mg/kg FMSC in a corn-soya bean meal basal diet for a 35-day trial. The pigs were injected with swine enzootic pneumonia (SEP) vaccines at day 3 and day 21 respectively. The results showed that dietary treatment failed to affect growth performance or serum SEP titre. The diet supplemented with 600-1800 mg/kg FMSC decreased faecal lactoferrin on day 21 and increased plasma trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) and erythrocytes catalase activity, as well as decreased (p < 0.01) plasma malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration on day 35. Diet supplementation of 1800 mg/kg FMSC increased phagocytosis by neutrophils and PBMC proliferation induced by pokeweed mitogen (PWM). However, the polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMN)-positive respiratory burst cells were decreased in the supplementation of 1200 or 1800 mg/kg FMSC respectively. In addition, the serum haptoglobin concentration was decreased in the supplementation with 1200 mg/kg FMSC. Taken together, FMSC enriches polyphenols with antioxidative and immune modulated properties. After feeding FMSC, an improvement in antioxidative capability and immunocompetence was found, implying that FMSC could provide as a feed additive at optimal level 1200 mg/kg for weaned pigs.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) is one of the most important legume crops in Asian countries like China, Japan and Korea due to its nutritious protein and starch contents. In spite of its economic importance, gene expression analysis system for gene function verification of adzuki bean is still absent. Therefore, reference genes for gene expression analysis based on the quantitative real time PCR (qRT-PCR) were screened in current study. A total of nine general housekeeping genes, including ACT, Fbox, ZMPP, GAPDH, EF, PP2A, UBC, UBN and PTB were evaluated for their expression stability by qRT-PCR in four adzuki bean cultivars, three different tissues, four abiotic stress and one biotic stress. The best group of candidates as reference genes were as follows: PTB and ACT for different cultivars; EF and UBN for different tissues; ACT and ZMPP for biotic stress and waterlogging stress; Fbox and UBC for salinity-alkalinity stress; Fbox and PTB for drought stress. Our results will provide a more accurate and reliable normalization of qRT-PCR data in adzuki bean.
The type III secretion system (T3SS) is a specialized secretion apparatus that is commonly used by many plant and animal pathogenic bacteria to deliver proteins, termed effectors, to the interior of the host cells. These effectors suppress host defenses and interfere with signal transduction pathways to promote infection. Some rhizobial strains possess a functional T3SS, which is involved in the suppression of host defense responses, host range determination, and symbiotic efficiency. The analysis of the genome of the broad-host-range rhizobial strain
Viruses are important plant pathogens that threaten diverse crops worldwide. Diseases caused by Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) have drawn attention because of the serious damages they cause to economically important crops including cowpea. This work was undertaken to quantify and identify the responsive proteins of a susceptible cowpea genotype infected with CPSMV, in comparison with mock-inoculated controls, using label-free quantitative proteomics and databanks, aiming at providing insights on the molecular basis of this compatible interaction. Cowpea leaves were mock- or CPSMV-inoculated and 2 and 6 days later proteins were extracted and analyzed. More than 3000 proteins were identified (data available via ProteomeXchange, identifier PXD005025) and 75 and 55 of them differentially accumulated in response to CPSMV, at 2 and 6 DAI, respectively. At 2 DAI, 76% of the proteins decreased in amount and 24% increased. However, at 6 DAI, 100% of the identified proteins increased. Thus, CPSMV transiently suppresses the synthesis of proteins involved particularly in the redox homeostasis, protein synthesis, defense, stress, RNA/DNA metabolism, signaling, and other functions, allowing viral invasion and spread in cowpea tissues.
As the prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), including steatosis and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, is increasing, novel dietary approaches are required for the prevention and treatment of NAFLD. We evaluated the potential of mung bean protein isolate (MuPI) to prevent NAFLD progression. In Expts. 1 and 2, the hepatic triglyceride (TG) concentration was compared between 8-wk-old male mice fed a high-fat diet (61% of energy from fat) containing casein, MuPI, and soy protein isolate and an MuPI-constituent amino acid mixture as a source of amino acids (18% of energy) for 4 wk. In Expt. 3, hepatic fatty acid synthase (Fasn) expression was evaluated in 8-wk-old male Fasn-promoter-reporter mice fed a casein- or MuPI-containing high-fat diet for 20 wk. In Expt. 4, hepatic fibrosis was examined in 8-wk-old male mice fed an atherogenic diet (61% of energy from fat, containing 1.3 g cholesterol/100 g diet) containing casein or MuPI (18% of energy) as a protein source for 20 wk. In the high fat-diet mice, the hepatic TG concentration in the MuPI group decreased by 66% and 47% in Expt. 1 compared with the casein group (P < 0.001) and the soy protein isolate group (P = 0.001), respectively, and decreased by 56% in Expt. 2 compared with the casein group (P = 0.011). However, there was no difference between the MuPI-constituent amino acid mixture and casein groups in Expt. 2. In Expt. 3, Fasn-promoter-reporter activity and hepatic TG concentration were lower in the MuPI group than in those fed casein (P < 0.05). In Expt. 4, in mice fed an atherogenic diet, hepatic fibrosis was not induced in the MuPI group, whereas it developed overtly in the casein group. MuPI potently reduced hepatic lipid accumulation in mice and may be a potential foodstuff to prevent NAFLD onset and progression.
Urochloa humidicola (Koronivia grass) is a polyploid (6x to 9x) species that is used as forage in the tropics. Facultative apospory apomixis is present in most of the genotypes of this species, although one individual has been described as sexual. Molecular studies have been restricted to molecular marker approaches for genetic diversity estimations and linkage map construction. The objectives of the present study were to describe and compare the leaf transcriptome of two important genotypes that are highly divergent in terms of their phenotypes and reproduction modes: the sexual BH031 and the aposporous apomictic cultivar BRS Tupi. We sequenced the leaf transcriptome of Koronivia grass using an Illumina GAIIx system, which produced 13.09 Gb of data that consisted of 163,575,526 paired-end reads between the two libraries. We de novo-assembled 76,196 transcripts with an average length of 1,152 bp and filtered 35,093 non-redundant unigenes. A similarity search against the non-redundant National Center of Biotechnology Information (NCBI) protein database returned 65 % hits. We annotated 24,133 unigenes in the Phytozome database and 14,082 unigenes in the UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot database, assigned 108,334 gene ontology terms to 17,255 unigenes and identified 5,324 unigenes in 327 known metabolic pathways. Comparisons with other grasses via a reciprocal BLAST search revealed a larger number of orthologous genes for the Panicum species. The unigenes were involved in C4 photosynthesis, lignocellulose biosynthesis and flooding stress responses. A search for functional molecular markers revealed 4,489 microsatellites and 560,298 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). A quantitative real-time PCR analysis validated the RNA-seq expression analysis and allowed for the identification of transcriptomic differences between the two evaluated genotypes. Moreover, 192 unannotated sequences were classified as containing complete open reading frames, suggesting that the new, potentially exclusive genes should be further investigated. The present study represents the first whole-transcriptome sequencing of U. humidicola leaves, providing an important public information source of transcripts and functional molecular markers. The qPCR analysis indicated that the expression of certain transcripts confirmed the differential expression observed in silico, which demonstrated that RNA-seq is useful for identifying differentially expressed and unique genes. These results corroborate the findings from previous studies and suggest a hybrid origin for BH031.
The effects of sodium citrate (SC), sodium acetate (SA) and sodium tartrate (ST) spraying on mung bean germination were investigated. Exogenous SC, ST and SA treatments significantly reduced the phytic acid content and increased the antioxidant enzyme activities. In this study, an iTRAQ-based proteomic approach was employed to explore the proteomes of mung bean sprouts, and 81, 101 and 90 differentially expressed proteins were identified in 4-day-old SC-, SA- and ST-treated mung bean sprouts, with 38 proteins present in all samples. Functional classification analysis showed that most of the differentially expressed proteins in mung bean sprouts subjected to the three treatments were involved in carbohydrate and energy metabolism. The inhibitory effect of the SA treatment was probably due to impairments in protein biosynthesis, whereas enhanced energy metabolism, accelerated reserve hydrolysis and protein processing were very important strategies for growth stimulation in response to ST and SC treatments.
The physiological and biochemical responses of a drought tolerant, virus-susceptible cowpea genotype exposed to drought stress (D), infected by Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) (V), and to these two combined stresses (DV), at 2 and 6 days post viral inoculation (DPI), were evaluated. Gas exchange parameters (net photosynthesis, transpiration rate, stomatal conductance, and internal CO
Mungbean (Vigna radiata L. Wilczek) is one of the most important leguminous food crops in Asia. We employed Illumina paired-end sequencing to analyse transcriptomes of three different mungbean genotypes. A total of 38.3-39.8 million pairedend reads with 73 bp lengths were generated. The pooled reads from the three libraries were assembled into 56,471 transcripts. Following a cluster analysis, 43,293 unigenes were obtained with an average length of 739 bp and N50 length of 1176 bp. Of the unigenes, 34,903 (80.6%) had significant similarity to known proteins in the NCBI nonredundant protein database (Nr), while 21,450 (58.4%) had BLAST hits in the Swiss-Prot database (E-value<10⁻⁵). Further, 1245 differential expression genes were detected among three mungbean genotypes. In addition, we identified 3788 expressed sequence tag-simple sequence repeat (EST-SSR) motifs that could be used as potential molecular markers. Among 320 tested loci, 310 (96.5%) yielded amplification products, and 151 (47.0%) exhibited polymorphisms among six mungbean accessions. These transcriptome data and mungbean EST-SSRs could serve as a valuable resource for novel gene discovery and the marker-assisted selective breeding of this species.
Cowpea (V. unguiculata L. Walp) is a climate resilient legume crop important for food security. Cultivated cowpea (V. unguiculata L) generally comprises the bushy, short-podded grain cowpea dominant in Africa and the climbing, long-podded vegetable cowpea popular in Asia. How selection has contributed to the diversification of the two types of cowpea remains largely unknown. In the current study, a novel genotyping assay for over 50 000 SNPs was employed to delineate genomic regions governing pod length. Major, minor and epistatic QTLs were identified through QTL mapping. Seventy-two SNPs associated with pod length were detected by genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Population stratification analysis revealed subdivision among a cowpea germplasm collection consisting of 299 accessions, which is consistent with pod length groups. Genomic scan for selective signals suggested that domestication of vegetable cowpea was accompanied by selection of multiple traits including pod length, while the further improvement process was featured by selection of pod length primarily. Pod growth kinetics assay demonstrated that more durable cell proliferation rather than cell elongation or enlargement was the main reason for longer pods. Transcriptomic analysis suggested the involvement of sugar, gibberellin and nutritional signalling in regulation of pod length. This study establishes the basis for map-based cloning of pod length genes in cowpea and for marker-assisted selection of this trait in breeding programmes.
Acyl Activating Enzyme3 (AAE3) was identified to be involved in the catabolism of oxalate, which is critical for seed development and defense against fungal pathogens. However, the role of AAE3 protein in abiotic stress responses is unknown. Here, we investigated the role of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) VuAAE3 in Al tolerance. Recombinant VuAAE3 protein has specific activity against oxalate, with K
Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-[India:Vigna] (MYMV-[IN:Vig]), a blackgram isolate of MYMV, causes yellow mosaic disease in blackgram and mungbean. Two variable DNA-B components, KA22 and KA27, cause distinct symptoms in blackgram [V. mungo (L.) Hepper] with the same DNA-A component. KA22 + DNA-A-agroinoculated blackgram plants displayed yellow mosaic symptom and accumulated high levels of viral single-stranded (ss) DNA. KA27 + DNA-A-agroinoculated blackgram plants displayed severe stunting symptom and accumulated very low levels of viral ssDNA. However, in mungbean [V. radiata (L.) Wilczek], KA27 + DNA-A caused yellow mosaic symptom and a high level of viral ssDNA accumulated. Swapping of KA27 DNA-B with the nuclear shuttle protein gene (NSP) of KA22 DNA-B (KA27xKA22 NSP) caused yellow mosaic symptom in blackgram, suggesting that KA22 NSP is the determinant of yellow mosaic symptom. Interestingly, KA27xKA22 NSP-infected blackgram plants accumulated high levels of viral ssDNA, comparable to that of KA22 DNA-B infection, suggesting that the KA22 NSP is responsible for accumulation of high levels of viral ssDNA. MYMV distribution was studied in blackgram and mungbean plants by leaf tissue hybridization, which showed mesophyll spread of the virus in KA22-infected blackgram leaflets and in KA27-infected mungbean leaflets, both of which displayed yellow mosaic symptom. However, the virus did not accumulate in the mesophyll in the case of KA27-infected blackgram leaflets. Interestingly, the swapped KA27xKA22 NSP-infected blackgram leaflets showed mesophyll accumulation of the virus, suggesting that KA22 NSP determines its mesophyll spread.
In this study on 90 individuals we aimed at evaluating the microRNAs (miRNAs) expression profile associated with personal levels of Titanium (Ti) and Zirconium (Zr) traced in hair samples. Ti and Zr materials are broadly used for dental implants but the biological reactions triggered by a long term presence of these materials in the oral cavity still need to be assessed. MiRNAs are mechanisms that need to be investigated as they play a fundamental role in the control of gene expression following external stimuli and contribute to a wide range of pathophysiological processes. Using the TaqMan® Low-Density Array, we assessed the expression levels of 377 human miRNAs in peripheral blood of 90 subjects. Hair samples were analyzed for Ti and Zr content using Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry. We performed multivariable regression analysis to investigate the effects of Ti and Zr exposure on miRNA expression levels. We used the Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software to explore the functional role of the investigated miRNAs and the related target genes. Seven miRNAs (miR-99b, miR-142-5p, miR-152, miR-193a-5p, miR-323-3p, miR-335, miR-494) resulted specifically associated with Zr levels. The functional target analysis showed that miRNAs are involved in mechanisms such as inflammation, skeletal and connective tissue disorders. Our data suggest that Zr is more bioactive than Ti and show that miRNAs are relevant molecular mechanisms sensitive to Zr exposure.
Piriformospora indica biomass generated in different growth media Rose Bengal medium, Kaefer's Medium, Enriched Soil Medium, Malt extract Medium and Czapek Dox was quantified and? their bioinoculum potential was compared using? moong bean (Vigna radiata) as? test plant. Plant chlorophyll content in response to inoculations was lowest in Rose Bengal medium (2.772mg plant-1) and highest due to inoculum produced on Enriched soil Medium (3.694 mg plant-1). The highest nitrogen content (19.260 mg plant-1) was recorded by inoculum produced on Kaefer's Medium followed by Enriched Soil Medium (19.123 mg plant-1), ME (18.19 mg plant-1) and CD medium (17.71 mg plant-1). The highest plant phosphorus uptake was registered in Enriched Soil Medium (17.153 mg plant-1) followed by Kaefer's Medium (17.023 mg plant-1). Maximum dry weight of plants was observed by inoculation with fungus cultured in Kaefer's Medium (3.416 g pot-1) and Enriched Soil Medium (3.349 g pot-1). Thus, growth medium used for the culture of fungus can influence its bioefficacy as plant growth promoting agent and Piriformospora indica can be grown on cost effective and simple mass multiplication medium which could augment its usage for commercial purposes.
Proteasome inhibitors are emerging as a new class of chemopreventive agents and have gained huge importance as potential pharmacological tools in breast cancer treatment. Improved understanding of the role played by proteases and their specific inhibitors in humans offers novel and challenging opportunities for preventive and therapeutic intervention. In this study, we demonstrated that the Bowman-Birk protease inhibitor from Vigna unguiculata seeds, named black-eyed pea trypsin/chymotrypsin Inhibitor (BTCI), potently suppresses human breast adenocarcinoma cell viability by inhibiting the activity of proteasome 20S. BTCI induced a negative growth effect against a panel of breast cancer cells, with a concomitant cytostatic effect at the G2/M phase of the cell cycle and an increase in apoptosis, as observed by an augmented number of cells at the sub-G1 phase and annexin V-fluorescin isothiocyanate (FITC)/propidium iodide (PI) staining. In contrast, BTCI exhibited no cytotoxic effect on normal mammary epithelial cells. Moreover, the increased levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and changes in the mitochondrial membrane potential in cells treated with BTCI indicated mitochondrial damage as a crucial cellular event responsible for the apoptotic process. The higher activity of caspase in tumoral cells treated with BTCI in comparison with untreated cells suggests that BTCI induces apoptosis in a caspase-dependent manner. BTCI affected NF-kB target gene expression in both non invasive and invasive breast cancer cell lines, with the effect highly pronounced in the invasive cells. An increased expression of interleukin-8 (IL-8) in both cell lines was also observed. Taken together, these results suggest that BTCI promotes apoptosis through ROS-induced mitochondrial damage following proteasome inhibition. These findings highlight the pharmacological potential and benefit of BTCI in breast cancer treatment.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) is an important rotation legume crop for human nutrition in Asia. Bruchids (Callosobruchus spp.) currently cause heavy damage as pests of grain legumes during storage. We used omics-related technologies to study the mechanisms of bruchid resistance in seeds of the nearly isogenic lines VC1973A (bruchid-susceptible) and VC6089A (bruchid-resistant). A total of 399 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between the two lines by transcriptome sequencing. Among these DEGs, 251 exhibited high expression levels and 148 expressed low expression levels in seeds of VC6089A. Forty-five differential proteins (DPs) were identified by isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ); 21 DPs had higher abundances in VC6089A, and 24 DPs had higher abundances in VC1973A. According to transcriptome and proteome data, only three DEGs/DPs, including resistant-specific protein (g39185), gag/pol polyprotein (g34458), and aspartic proteinase (g5551), were identified and located on chromosomes 5, 1, and 7, respectively. Both g39185 and g34458 genes encode a protein containing a BURP domain. In previous research on bruchid molecular markers, the g39185 gene located close to the molecular markers of major bruchid-resistant locus may be a bruchid-resistant gene.
Legume research and cultivar development are important for sustainable food production, especially of high-protein seed. Thanks to the development of deep-sequencing technologies, crop species have been taken to the front line, even without completion of their genome sequences. Black-eyed pea (Vigna unguiculata) is a legume species widely grown in semi-arid regions, which has high potential to provide stable seed protein production in a broad range of environments, including drought conditions. The black-eyed pea reference genotype has been used to generate a gene expression atlas of the major plant tissues (i.e. leaf, root, stem, flower, pod and seed), with a developmental time series for pods and seeds. From these various organs, 27 cDNA libraries were generated and sequenced, resulting in more than one billion reads. Following filtering, these reads were de novo assembled into 36 529 transcript sequences that were annotated and quantified across the different tissues. A set of 24 866 unique transcript sequences, called Unigenes, was identified. All the information related to transcript identification, annotation and quantification were stored into a gene expression atlas webserver (http://vugea.noble.org), providing a user-friendly interface and necessary tools to analyse transcript expression in black-eyed pea organs and to compare data with other legume species. Using this gene expression atlas, we inferred details of molecular processes that are active during seed development, and identified key putative regulators of seed maturation. Additionally, we found evidence for conservation of regulatory mechanisms involving miRNA in plant tissues subjected to drought and seeds undergoing desiccation.
Alternative splicing (AS) can produce multiple mature mRNAs from the same primary transcript, thereby generating diverse proteins and phenotypes from the same gene. To assess the prevalence of AS in mungbean (Vigna radiata), we analysed whole-genome RNA sequencing data from root, leaf, flower and pod tissues and found that at least 37.9% of mungbean genes are subjected to AS. The number of AS transcripts exhibited a strong correlation with exon number and thus resembled a uniform probabilistic event rather than a specific regulatory function. The proportion of frameshift splicing was close to the expected frequency of random splicing. However, alternative donor and acceptor AS events tended to occur at multiples of three nucleotides (i.e. the codon length) from the main splice site. Genes with high exon number and expression level, which should have the most AS if splicing is purely stochastic, exhibited less AS, implying the existence of negative selection against excessive random AS. Functional AS is probably rare: a large proportion of AS isoforms exist at very low copy per cell on average or are expressed at much lower levels than default transcripts. Conserved AS was only detected in 629 genes (2.8% of all genes in the genome) when compared to Vigna angularis, and in 16 genes in more distant species like soya bean. These observations highlight the challenges of finding and cataloguing candidates for experimentally proven AS isoforms in a crop genome.
Formate dehydrogenase (FDH) is involved in various higher plant abiotic stress responses. Here, we investigated the role of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) VuFDH in Al and low pH (H(+)) tolerance. Screening of various potential substrates for the VuFDH protein demonstrated that it functions as a formate dehydrogenase. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and histochemical analysis showed that the expression of VuFDH is induced in rice bean root tips by Al or H(+) stresses. Fluorescence microscopic observation of VuFDH-GFP in transgenic Arabidopsis plants indicated that VuFDH is localized in the mitochondria. Accumulation of formate is induced by Al and H(+) stress in rice bean root tips, and exogenous application of formate increases internal formate content that results in the inhibition of root elongation and induction of VuFDH expression, suggesting that formate accumulation is involved in both H(+)- and Al-induced root growth inhibition. Over-expression of VuFDH in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) results in decreased sensitivity to Al and H(+) stress due to less production of formate in the transgenic tobacco lines under Al and H(+) stresses. Moreover, NtMATE and NtALS3 expression showed no changes versus wild type in these over-expression lines, suggesting that herein known Al-resistant mechanisms are not involved. Thus, the increased Al tolerance of VuFDH over-expression lines is likely attributable to their decreased Al-induced formate production. Taken together, our findings advance understanding of higher plant Al toxicity mechanisms, and suggest a possible new route toward the improvement of plant performance in acidic soils, where Al toxicity and H(+) stress coexist.
Vigna mungo (blackgram) is an important leguminous pulse crop, which is grown for its protein rich edible seeds. Drought and salinity are the major abiotic stresses which adversely affect the growth and productivity of crop plants including blackgram. The ALDRXV4 belongs to the aldo-keto reductase superfamily of enzymes that catalyze the reduction of carbonyl metabolites in the cells and plays an important role in the osmoprotection and detoxification of the reactive carbonyl species. In the present study, we developed transgenic plants of V. mungo using Agrobacterium mediated transformation. The transgene integration was confirmed by Southern blot analysis whereas the expression was confirmed by RT-PCR, Western blot and enzyme activity. The T1 generation transgenic plants displayed improved tolerance to various environmental stresses, including drought, salt, methyl viologen and H2O2 induced oxidative stress. The increased aldose reductase activity, higher sorbitol content and less accumulation of the toxic metabolite, methylglyoxal in the transgenic lines under non-stress and stress (drought and salinity) conditions resulted in increased protection through maintenance of better photosynthetic efficiency, higher relative water content and less photooxidative damage. The accumulation of reactive oxygen species was remarkably decreased in the transgenic lines as compared with the wild type plants. This study of engineering multiple stress tolerance in blackgram, is the first report to date and this strategy for trait improvement is proposed to provide a novel germplasm for blackgram production on marginal lands.
Cowpea (V. unguiculata L. Walp.) is an important tropical grain legume. Asparagus bean (V. unguiculata ssp. sesquipedialis) is a distinctive subspecies of cowpea, which is considered one of the top ten Asian vegetables. It can be adapted to a wide range of environmental stimuli such as drought and heat. Nevertheless, it is an extremely cold-sensitive tropical species. Improvement of chilling tolerance in asparagus bean may significantly increase its production and prolong its supply. However, gene regulation and signaling pathways related to cold response in this crop remain unknown. Using Illumina sequencing technology, modification of global gene expression in response to chilling stress in two asparagus bean cultivars-"Dubai bean" and "Ningjiang-3", which are tolerant and sensitive to chilling, respectively-were investigated. More than 1.8 million clean reads were obtained from each sample. After de novo assembly, 88,869 unigenes were finally generated with a mean length of 635 bp. Of these unigenes, 41,925 (47.18%) had functional annotations when aligned to public protein databases. Further, we identified 3,510 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in Dubai bean, including 2,103 up-regulated genes and 1,407 down-regulated genes. While in Ningjiang-3, we found 2,868 DEGs, 1,786 of which were increasing and the others were decreasing. 1,744 DEGs were commonly regulated in two cultivars, suggesting that some genes play fundamental roles in asparagus bean during cold stress. Functional classification of the DEGs in two cultivars using Mercator pipeline indicated that RNA, protein, signaling, stress and hormone metabolism were five major groups. In RNA group, analysis of TFs in DREB subfamily showed that ICE1-CBF3-COR cold responsive cascade may also exist in asparagus bean. Our study is the first to provide the transcriptome sequence resource for asparagus bean, which will accelerate breeding cold resistant asparagus bean varieties through genetic engineering, and advance our knowledge of the genes involved in the complex regulatory networks of this plant under cold stress.
Rice bean (Vigna umbellata (Thunb.) Ohwi & Ohashi) is a warm season annual legume mainly grown in East Asia. Only scarce genomic resources are currently available for this legume crop species and no simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers have been specifically developed for rice bean yet. In this study, approximately 26 million high quality cDNA sequence reads were obtained from rice bean using Illumina paired-end sequencing technology and assembled into 71,929 unigenes with an average length of 986 bp. Of these unigenes, 38,840 (33.2%) showed significant similarity to proteins in the NCBI non-redundant protein and nucleotide sequence databases. Furthermore, 30,170 (76.3%) could be classified into gene ontology categories, 25,451 (64.4%) into Swiss-Prot categories and 21,982 (55.6%) into KOG database categories (E-value < 1.0E-5). A total of 9,301 (23.5%) were mapped onto 118 pathways using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genome (KEGG) pathway database. A total of 3,011 genic SSRs were identified as potential molecular markers. AG/CT (30.3%), AAG/CTT (8.1%) and AGAA/TTCT (20.0%) are the three main repeat motifs. A total of 300 SSR loci were randomly selected for validation by using PCR amplification. Of these loci, 23 primer pairs were polymorphic among 32 rice bean accessions. A UPGMA dendrogram revealed three major clusters among 32 rice bean accessions. The large number of SSR-containing sequences and genic SSRs in this study will be valuable for the construction of high-resolution genetic linkage maps, association or comparative mapping and genetic analyses of various Vigna species.
The researches on the identification of gibberellin receptor are reviewed from the early attempts in 1960s to the identification of GIBBERELLIN INSENSITIVE DWARF1 (GID1) as the receptor in 2005. Unpublished data of the gibberellin-binding protein in the seedlings of adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) are also included, suggesting that the active principle of the gibberellin-binding protein was a GID1 homolog.
Cardiac hypertrophy is a major risk factor for heart failure. Hence, its attenuation represents an important clinical goal. Erk1,2 signalling is pivotal in the cardiac response to stress, suggesting that its inhibition may be a good strategy to revert heart hypertrophy. In this work, we unveiled the events associated with cardiac hypertrophy by means of a transgenic model expressing activated Met receptor. c-Met proto-oncogene encodes for the tyrosine kinase receptor of Hepatocyte growth factor and is a strong inducer of Ras-Raf-Mek-Erk1,2 pathway. We showed that three weeks after the induction of activated Met, the heart presents a remarkable concentric hypertrophy, with no signs of congestive failure and preserved contractility. Cardiac enlargement is accompanied by upregulation of growth-regulating transcription factors, natriuretic peptides, cytoskeletal proteins, and Extracellular Matrix remodelling factors (Timp1 and Pai1). At a later stage, cardiac hypertrophic remodelling results into heart failure with preserved systolic function. Prevention trial by suppressing activated Met showed that cardiac hypertrophy is reversible, and progression to heart failure is prevented. Notably, treatment with Pimasertib, Mek1 inhibitor, attenuates cardiac hypertrophy and remodelling. Our results suggest that modulation of Erk1.2 signalling may constitute a new therapeutic approach for treating cardiac hypertrophies.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata [L.] R. Wilczek) is an important legume crop with high nutritional value in South and Southeast Asia. The crop plant is susceptible to a storage pest caused by bruchids (Callosobruchus spp.). Some wild and cultivated mungbean accessions show resistance to bruchids. Genomic and transcriptomic comparison of bruchid-resistant and -susceptible mungbean could reveal bruchid-resistant genes (Br) for this pest and give insights into the bruchid resistance of mungbean. Flow cytometry showed that the genome size varied by 61 Mb (mega base pairs) among the tested mungbean accessions. Next generation sequencing followed by de novo assembly of the genome of the bruchid-resistant recombinant inbred line 59 (RIL59) revealed more than 42,000 genes. Transcriptomic comparison of bruchid-resistant and -susceptible parental lines and their offspring identified 91 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) classified into 17 major and 74 minor bruchid-resistance-associated genes. We found 408 nucleotide variations (NVs) between bruchid-resistant and -susceptible lines in regions spanning 2 kb (kilo base pairs) of the promoters of 68 DEGs. Furthermore, 282 NVs were identified on exons of 148 sequence-changed-protein genes (SCPs). DEGs and SCPs comprised genes involved in resistant-related, transposable elements (TEs) and conserved metabolic pathways. A large number of these genes were mapped to a region on chromosome 5. Molecular markers designed for variants of putative bruchid-resistance-associated genes were highly diagnostic for the bruchid-resistant genotype. In addition to identifying bruchid-resistance-associated genes, we found that conserved metabolism and TEs may be modifier factors for bruchid resistance of mungbean. The genome sequence of a bruchid-resistant inbred line, candidate genes and sequence variations in promoter regions and exons putatively conditioning resistance as well as markers detecting these variants could be used for development of bruchid-resistant mungbean varieties.
Bambara groundnut (Vigna subterranea (L.) Verdc.) is an African legume and is a promising underutilized crop with good seed nutritional values. Low temperature stress in a number of African countries at night, such as Botswana, can effect the growth and development of bambara groundnut, leading to losses in potential crop yield. Therefore, in this study we developed a computational pipeline to identify and analyze the genes and gene modules associated with low temperature stress responses in bambara groundnut using the cross-species microarray technique (as bambara groundnut has no microarray chip) coupled with network-based analysis. Analyses of the bambara groundnut transcriptome using cross-species gene expression data resulted in the identification of 375 and 659 differentially expressed genes (p<0.01) under the sub-optimal (23°C) and very sub-optimal (18°C) temperatures, respectively, of which 110 genes are commonly shared between the two stress conditions. The construction of a Highest Reciprocal Rank-based gene co-expression network, followed by its partition using a Heuristic Cluster Chiseling Algorithm resulted in 6 and 7 gene modules in sub-optimal and very sub-optimal temperature stresses being identified, respectively. Modules of sub-optimal temperature stress are principally enriched with carbohydrate and lipid metabolic processes, while most of the modules of very sub-optimal temperature stress are significantly enriched with responses to stimuli and various metabolic processes. Several transcription factors (from MYB, NAC, WRKY, WHIRLY & GATA classes) that may regulate the downstream genes involved in response to stimulus in order for the plant to withstand very sub-optimal temperature stress were highlighted. The identified gene modules could be useful in breeding for low-temperature stress tolerant bambara groundnut varieties.
Mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) is commonly grown in Asia as an important nutritional dry grain legume, as it can survive better in arid conditions than other crops. Abiotic stresses, such as drought and high-salt contents, negatively impact its growth and production. The dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2 (DREB2) transcription factors play a significant role in the response to these stress stimuli via transcriptional regulation of downstream genes containing the cis-element dehydration-responsive element (DRE). However, the molecular mechanisms involved in the drought tolerance of this species remain elusive, with very few reported candidate genes. No DREB2 ortholog has been reported for mung bean, and the function of mung bean DREB2 is not clear. In this study, a novel VrDREB2A gene with conserved AP2 domains and transactivation ability was isolated from mung bean. A modified VrDREB2A protein lacking the putative negative regulatory domain encoded by nucleotides 394-543 was shown to be localized in the nucleus. Expression of the VrDREB2A gene was induced by drought, high salt concentrations and abscisic acid treatment. Furthermore, comparing with the wild type Arabidopsis, the overexpression of VrDREB2A activated the expression of downstream genes in transgenic Arabidopsis, resulting in enhanced tolerance to drought and high-salt stresses and no growth retardation. The results from this study indicate that VrDREB2A functions as an important transcriptional activator and may help increase the abiotic stress tolerance of the mung bean plant.
Asparagus bean (Vigna unguiculata ssp. sesquipedalis) is the Asian subspecies of cowpea, a drought-resistant legume crop native to Africa. In order to explore the genetic variation of drought responses in asparagus bean, we conducted multi-year phenotyping of drought resistance traits across the Chinese asparagus bean mini-core. The phenotypic distribution indicated that the ssp. sesquipedalis subgene pool has maintained high natural variation in drought responses despite known domestic bottleneck. Thirty-nine SNP loci were found to show an association with drought resistance via a genome-wide association study (GWAS). Whole-plant water relations were compared among four genotypes by lysimetric assay. Apparent genotypic differences in transpiration patterns and the critical soil water threshold in relation to dehydration avoidance were observed, indicating a delicate adaptive mechanism for each genotype to its own climate. Microarray gene expression analyses revealed that known drought resistance pathways such as the ABA and phosphate lipid signaling pathways are conserved between different genotypes, while differential regulation of certain aquaporin genes and hormonal genes may be important for the genotypic differences. Our results suggest that divergent sensitivity to soil water content is an important mechanism configuring the genotypic specific responses to water deficit. The SNP markers identified provide useful resources for marker-assisted breeding.
Sinorhizobium (Ensifer) fredii HH103 is a broad host-range nitrogen-fixing bacterium able to nodulate many legumes, including soybean. In several rhizobia, root nodulation is influenced by proteins secreted through the type 3 secretion system (T3SS). This specialized secretion apparatus is a common virulence mechanism of many plant and animal pathogenic bacteria that delivers proteins, called effectors, directly into the eukaryotic host cells where they interfere with signal transduction pathways and promote infection by suppressing host defenses. In rhizobia, secreted proteins, called nodulation outer proteins (Nops), are involved in host-range determination and symbiotic efficiency. S. fredii HH103 secretes at least eight Nops through the T3SS. Interestingly, there are Rhizobium-specific Nops, such as NopC, which do not have homologues in pathogenic bacteria. In this work we studied the S. fredii HH103 nopC gene and confirmed that its expression was regulated in a flavonoid-, NodD1- and TtsI-dependent manner. Besides, in vivo bioluminescent studies indicated that the S. fredii HH103 T3SS was expressed in young soybean nodules and adenylate cyclase assays confirmed that NopC was delivered directly into soybean root cells by means of the T3SS machinery. Finally, nodulation assays showed that NopC exerted a positive effect on symbiosis with Glycine max cv. Williams 82 and Vigna unguiculata. All these results indicate that NopC can be considered a Rhizobium-specific effector secreted by S. fredii HH103.
Obesity is often considered to result from either excessive food intake or insufficient physical activity. Adzuki beans have been evaluated as potential remedies for various health conditions, and recent studies have reported their effects on the regulation of lipid metabolism, but it remains to be determined whether they may be effective in overcoming obesity by regulating appetite and satiety. This study investigated the effect of black adzuki bean (BAB) extract on body composition and hypothalamic neuropeptide expression in Sprague Dawley rats (Rattus norvegicus) fed a high-fat diet. The rats were fed for 8 weeks with a control diet containing 10 kcal% from fat (CD), a high-fat diet containing 60 kcal% from fat (HD), or a high-fat diet with 1% or 2% freeze-dried ethanolic extract powder of BAB (BAB-1 and BAB-2). The body weights and epididymal fat weights were significantly reduced and the serum lipid profiles were improved in the group fed the diet containing BAB compared to the HD group. The expression of AGRP mRNA significantly decreased in the BAB groups, and treatment with BAB-2 resulted in a marked induction of the mRNA expression of POMC and CART, which are anorexigenic neuropeptides that suppress food intake. Furthermore, mRNA expression levels of ObRb, a gene related to leptin sensitivity in the hypothalamus, were significantly higher in the BAB groups than in the HD group. These results suggest that supplementation with BAB has a significant effect on body weight via regulation of hypothalamic neuropeptides.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis), an important legume crop, is grown in more than 30 countries of the world. The seed of adzuki bean, as an important source of starch, digestible protein, mineral elements, and vitamins, is widely used foods for at least a billion people. Here, we generated a high-quality draft genome sequence of adzuki bean by whole-genome shotgun sequencing. The assembled contig sequences reached to 450 Mb (83% of the genome) with an N50 of 38 kb, and the total scaffold sequences were 466.7 Mb with an N50 of 1.29 Mb. Of them, 372.9 Mb of scaffold sequences were assigned to the 11 chromosomes of adzuki bean by using a single nucleotide polymorphism genetic map. A total of 34,183 protein-coding genes were predicted. Functional analysis revealed that significant differences in starch and fat content between adzuki bean and soybean were likely due to transcriptional abundance, rather than copy number variations, of the genes related to starch and oil synthesis. We detected strong selection signals in domestication by the population analysis of 50 accessions including 11 wild, 11 semiwild, 17 landraces, and 11 improved varieties. In addition, the semiwild accessions were illuminated to have a closer relationship to the cultigen accessions than the wild type, suggesting that the semiwild adzuki bean might be a preliminary landrace and play some roles in the adzuki bean domestication. The genome sequence of adzuki bean will facilitate the identification of agronomically important genes and accelerate the improvement of adzuki bean.
Plant-fungus interactions usually generate H(2)O(2) in the infected plant tissue. H(2)O(2) has a direct antimicrobial effect and is involved in the cross-linking of cell walls, signaling, induction of gene expression, hypersensitive cell death and induced systemic acquired resistance. This has raised the hypothesis that H(2)O(2) manipulation by pharmacological compounds could alter the lifestyle of Colletotrichum gloeosporioides during interaction with the BR-3-Tracuateua cowpea genotype. The primary leaves of cowpea were excised, infiltrated with salicylic acid (SA), glucose oxidase + glucose (GO/G), catalase (CAT) or diphenyliodonium chloride (DPI), followed by spore inoculation on the adaxial leaf surface. SA or GO/G-treated plantlets showed increased H(2)O(2) accumulation and lipid peroxidation. The fungus used a subcuticular, intramural necrotrophic strategy, and developed secondary hyphae associated with the quick spread and rapid killing of host cells. However, CAT or DPI-treated leaves exhibited decreased H(2)O(2) concentration and lipid peroxidation and the fungus developed intracellular hemibiotrophic infection with vesicles, in addition to primary and secondary hyphal formation. These results suggest that H(2)O(2) plays an important role in the cowpea (C. gloeosporioides) pathosystem given that it affected fungal lifestyle during interaction.
The activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) has a beneficial effect on hyperglycaemia. The aim of this study was to examine whether an azuki bean (Vigna angularis) extract (ABE) stimulates the AMPK or insulin signalling pathways in a liver cell line in response to hyperglycaemia, as well as in a diabetic rat liver. HepG2 cells were incubated with 5 or 20 mmol L(-1) glucose and then treated with ABE. Streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats received 0, 10, or 40 mg kg(-1) ABE orally. Blood chemistry and phosphorylation of AMPK and Akt (a serine/threonine kinase) in the livers were examined. There was a significant increase in the levels of AMPK and Akt phosphorylation in ABE-treated HepG2 cells. AMPK phosphorylation increased significantly in glucose-stimulated HepG2 cells that were treated with ABE. In the 40 mg kg(-1) ABE-treated diabetic rats, the glucose levels were lower than in the control. Phosphorylation of AMPK in ABE-untreated diabetic rat livers decreased significantly. Conversely, ABE treatment increased the phosphorylation of AMPK and Akt in the diabetic rat liver. ABE treatment upregulated AMPK phosphorylation in HepG2 cells, and upregulated AMPK and Akt phosphorylation in the diabetic rat liver. These data suggest that ABE can potentially improve glucose intolerance.
Phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) is a major phospholipid in eukaryotic cells. Many studies have revealed that the phosphoinositide (PI) signaling pathway plays an important role in plant growth and development. Phospholipase C (PLC) is reported to have a crucial role in the PI pathway. This work focuses on the isolation and investigation of PLC in response to abiotic stress factors in green gram. The PLC cDNA, designated VrPLC, encoding a protein of 591 amino acids was cloned and expressed in E. coli. The predicted isoelectric point (pI) and molecular weight were 5.96 and 67.3 kDa, respectively. The tertiary structure of the PLC was also predicted and found to be mainly composed of random coils. In addition, VrPLC expression analysis was performed under environmental stress and the results showed that the expression of VrPLC was rapidly induced in an abscisic acid independent manner in response to drought and salt stress. PLC expression was found to be up-regulated by SA and down-regulated by wound in leaf tissues; however, there was no significant difference in the expression of PLC in plants subjected to high temperature and H2O2. Our results suggest that a close link/relationship between PLC expression and stress responses in green gram.
The adzuki bean (Vigna angularis (Ohwi) Ohwi and Ohashi) is an important grain legume of Asia. It is cultivated mainly in China, Japan and Korea. Despite its importance, few genomic resources are available for molecular genetic research of adzuki bean. In this study, we developed EST-SSR markers for the adzuki bean through next-generation sequencing. More than 112 million high-quality cDNA sequence reads were obtained from adzuki bean using Illumina paired-end sequencing technology, and the sequences were de novo assembled into 65,950 unigenes. The average length of the unigenes was 1,213 bp. Among the unigenes, 14,547 sequences contained a unique simple sequence repeat (SSR) and 3,350 sequences contained more than one SSR. A total of 7,947 EST-SSRs were identified as potential molecular markers, with mono-nucleotide A/T repeats (99.0%) as the most abundant motif class, followed by AG/CT (68.4%), AAG/CTT (30.0%), AAAG/CTTT (26.2%), AAAAG/CTTTT (16.1%), and AACGGG/CCCGTT (6.0%). A total of 500 SSR markers were randomly selected for validation, of which 296 markers produced reproducible amplicons with 38 polymorphic markers among the 32 adzuki bean genotypes selected from diverse geographical locations across China. The large number of SSR-containing sequences and EST-SSR markers will be valuable for genetic analysis of the adzuki bean and related Vigna species.
An awesome number of experimental and clinical evidences indicate that constitutive activation of the Met oncogenic receptor plays a critical role in the progression of cancer toward metastasis and/or resistance to targeted therapies. While mutations are rare, the common mechanism of Met activation is overexpression, either by gene amplification ('addiction') or transcriptional activation ('expedience'). In the first instance ligand-independent kinase activation plays a major role in sustaining the transformed phenotype. Anti-Met antibodies directed against the receptor binding site behave essentially as ligand (Hepatocyte Growth Factor, HGF) antagonists and are ineffective to counteract ligand-independent activation. The monovalent chimeric MvDN30 antibody fragment, PEGylated to extend its half-life, binds the fourth IPT domain and induces 'shedding' of the Met extracellular domain, dramatically reducing both the number of receptors on the surface and their phosphorylation. Downstream signaling is thus inhibited, both in the absence or in the presence of the ligand. In vitro, MvDN30 is a strong inhibitor not only of ligand-dependent invasive growth, sustained by both paracrine and autocrine HGF, but notably, also of ligand-independent growth of 'Met-addicted' cells. In immunocompromised mice, lacking expression of Hepatocyte Growth Factor cross-reacting with the human receptor - thus providing, by definition, a model of 'ligand-independent' Met activation - PEGylated MvDN30 impairs growth of Met 'addicted' human gastric carcinoma cells. In a Met-amplified patient-derived colo-rectal tumor (xenopatient) MvDN30-PEG overcomes the resistance to EGFR targeted therapy (Cetuximab). The PEGylated MvDN30 is thus a strong candidate for targeting tumors sustained by ligand-independent Met oncogenic activation.
We performed deep sequencing of the nuclear and organellar genomes of three mungbean genotypes: Vigna radiata ssp. sublobata TC1966, V. radiata var. radiata NM92 and the recombinant inbred line RIL59 derived from a cross between TC1966 and NM92. Moreover, we performed deep sequencing of the RIL59 transcriptome to investigate transcript variability. The mungbean chloroplast genome has a quadripartite structure including a pair of inverted repeats separated by two single copy regions. A total of 213 simple sequence repeats were identified in the chloroplast genomes of NM92 and RIL59; 78 single nucleotide variants and nine indels were discovered in comparing the chloroplast genomes of TC1966 and NM92. Analysis of the mungbean chloroplast transcriptome revealed mRNAs that were affected by transcriptional slippage and RNA editing. Transcriptional slippage frequency was positively correlated with the length of simple sequence repeats of the mungbean chloroplast genome (R2=0.9911). In total, 41 C-to-U editing sites were found in 23 chloroplast genes and in one intergenic spacer. No editing site that swapped U to C was found. A combination of bioinformatics and experimental methods revealed that the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase-transcribed genes psbF and ndhA are affected by transcriptional slippage in mungbean and in main lineages of land plants, including three dicots (Glycine max, Brassica rapa, and Nicotiana tabacum), two monocots (Oryza sativa and Zea mays), two gymnosperms (Pinus taeda and Ginkgo biloba) and one moss (Physcomitrella patens). Transcript analysis of the rps2 gene showed that transcriptional slippage could affect transcripts at single sequence repeat regions with poly-A runs. It showed that transcriptional slippage together with incomplete RNA editing may cause sequence diversity of transcripts in chloroplasts of land plants.
Black gram [V. mungo (L.) Hepper] is an important legume crop extensively grown in south and south-east Asia, where it is a major source of dietary protein for its predominantly vegetarian population. However, lack of genomic information and markers has become a limitation for genetic improvement of this crop. Here, we report the transcriptome sequencing of the immature seeds of black gram cv. TU94-2, by Illumina paired end sequencing technology to generate transcriptome sequences for gene discovery and genic-SSR marker development. A total of 17.2 million paired-end reads were generated and 48,291 transcript contigs (TCS) were assembled with an average length of 443 bp. Based on sequence similarity search, 33,766 TCS showed significant similarity to known proteins. Among these, only 29,564 TCS were annotated with gene ontology (GO) functional categories. A total number of 138 unique KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) pathways were identified, of which majority of TCS are grouped into purine metabolism (678) followed by pyrimidine metabolism (263). A total of 48,291 TCS were searched for SSRs and 1,840 SSRs were identified in 1,572 TCS with an average frequency of one SSR per 11.9 kb. The tri-nucleotide repeats were most abundant (35%) followed by di-nucleotide repeats (32%). PCR primer pairs were successfully designed for 933 SSR loci. Sequences analyses indicate that about 64.4% and 35.6% of the SSR motifs were present in the coding sequences (CDS) and untranslated regions (UTRs) respectively. Tri-nucleotide repeats (57.3%) were preferentially present in the CDS. The rate of successful amplification and polymorphism were investigated using selected primers among 18 black gram accessions. Genic-SSR markers developed from the Illumina paired end sequencing of black gram immature seed transcriptome will provide a valuable resource for genetic diversity, evolution, linkage mapping, comparative genomics and marker-assisted selection in black gram.
ZAP-70 is a marker of clinical outcome in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), however its assessment suffers from a lack of standardization consensus. To identify novel markers able to surrogate IGHV mutational status, CD19(+)CD5(+)-B-lymphocytes from 216 patients enrolled in a prospective study (ClinicalTrial.gov Identifier:NCT00917540), underwent gene expression profiling. Samples were split into CLL-Training (n=102) and CLL-Validation (n=114) sets, and an independent supervised analysis for IGHV mutational status was performed considering all genes with gene expression equal or above that of ZAP-70. Thirty-one genes (23 up- and 8 down-regulated) and 23 genes (18 up- and 5 down-regulated) satisfied these criteria in the CLL-Training and CLL-Validation sets, respectively, and 20 common genes (15 up and 5 down) were found to be differentially regulated in both sets. Two (SNORA70F, NRIP1) of the down-regulated and 6 (SEPT10, ZNF667, TGFBR3, MBOAT1, LPL, CRY1) of the up-regulated genes were significantly associated with a reduced risk of disease progression in both sets. Forcing the afore-mentioned genes in a Cox multivariate model together with IGHV mutational status, only CRY1 (HR=2.3, 95% CI: 1.1-4.9, P=.027) and MBOAT1 (HR=2.1, 95% CI: 1.1-3.7, P=.018) retained their independent prognostic impact, supporting the hypothesis that these genes may potentially act as surrogates for predicting IGHV mutational status.
The rice bean (Vigna umbellata) root apex specifically secretes citrate through expression activation of Vigna umbellata Multidrug and Toxic Compound Extrusion 1 (VuMATE1) under aluminum (Al(3+) ) stress. However, the underlying mechanisms regulating VuMATE1 expression remain unknown. We isolated and characterized a gene encoding Sensitive to Proton Rhizotoxicity1 (STOP1)-like protein, VuSTOP1, from rice bean. The role of VuSTOP1 in regulating VuMATE1 expression was investigated using the yeast one-hybrid assay. We characterized the function of VuSTOP1 in Al(3) (+) - and H(+) -tolerance using in planta complementation assays. We demonstrated that VuSTOP1 has transactivation potential. We found that VuSTOP1 expression is inducible by Al(3+) and H(+) stress. However, although VuSTOP1 binds to the promoter of VuMATE1, the inconsistent tissue localization patterns of VuSTOP1 and VuMATE1 preclude VuSTOP1 as the major factor regulating VuMATE1 expression. In addition, when a protein translation inhibitor increased expression of VuSTOP1, VuMATE1 expression was inhibited. In planta complementation assay demonstrated that VuSTOP1 could fully restore expression of genes involved in H(+) tolerance, but could only partially restore expression of AtMATE. We conclude that VuSTOP1 plays a major role in H(+) tolerance, but only a minor role in Al(3+) tolerance. The differential transcriptional regulation of VuSTOP1 and VuMATE1 reveals a complex regulatory system controlling VuMATE1 expression.
Mung bean is an important legume crop in tropical and subtropical countries of Asia and has high nutritional and economic value. However the genetic diversity of mung bean is poorly characterized. In this study, our goal was to develop and use microsatellite simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers for germplasm evaluation. In total, 500 novel expression sequence tag EST-based SSRs (eSSRs) and genomic SSRs (gSSRs) were developed from mung bean transcriptome and genome sequences. Of these, only 58 were useful for diversity evaluation in a panel of 157 cultivated and wild mung bean accessions from different collection sites in East Asia. A total of 2.66 alleles were detected on average per locus which shows that polymorphism is generally low for the species. The average polymorphic information content (PIC) of gSSRs was higher than eSSRs and most of the polymorphic gSSRs were composed of di- and tri-nucleotide repeats (52.4% and 38.1% of all loci, respectively). The genotypes were differentiated into nine subgroups by cluster analysis, and the wild mung bean accessions separated well from the cultivated accessions. Analysis of molecular variance indicated that 22% of variance was observed among populations and 78% was due to differences within populations. Clustering, population structure analyses showed that non-Chinese cultivated and wild mung bean accessions were separated from Chinese accessions, but no geographical distinctions existed between genotypes collected in China. Interestingly, the average PIC value of cultivated mung bean (0.36) was higher than that of wild mung bean (0.25) showing that further collecting and wide crosses are necessary for mung bean improvement.
Mung bean (Vigna radiate (L.) Wilczek) is an important traditional food legume crop, with high economic and nutritional value. It is widely grown in China and other Asian countries. Despite its importance, genomic information is currently unavailable for this crop plant species or some of its close relatives in the Vigna genus. In this study, more than 103 million high quality cDNA sequence reads were obtained from mung bean using Illumina paired-end sequencing technology. The processed reads were assembled into 48,693 unigenes with an average length of 874 bp. Of these unigenes, 25,820 (53.0%) and 23,235 (47.7%) showed significant similarity to proteins in the NCBI non-redundant protein and nucleotide sequence databases, respectively. Furthermore, 19,242 (39.5%) could be classified into gene ontology categories, 18,316 (37.6%) into Swiss-Prot categories and 10,918 (22.4%) into KOG database categories (E-value < 1.0E-5). A total of 6,585 (8.3%) were mapped onto 244 pathways using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genome (KEGG) pathway database. Among the unigenes, 10,053 sequences contained a unique simple sequence repeat (SSR), and 2,303 sequences contained more than one SSR together in the same expressed sequence tag (EST). A total of 13,134 EST-SSRs were identified as potential molecular markers, with mono-nucleotide A/T repeats being the most abundant motif class and G/C repeats being rare. In this SSR analysis, we found five main repeat motifs: AG/CT (30.8%), GAA/TTC (12.6%), AAAT/ATTT (6.8%), AAAAT/ATTTT (6.2%) and AAAAAT/ATTTTT (1.9%). A total of 200 SSR loci were randomly selected for validation by PCR amplification as EST-SSR markers. Of these, 66 marker primer pairs produced reproducible amplicons that were polymorphic among 31 mung bean accessions selected from diverse geographical locations. The large number of SSR-containing sequences found in this study will be valuable for the construction of a high-resolution genetic linkage maps, association or comparative mapping and genetic analyses of various Vigna species.
Intensive agriculture has resulted in an indiscriminate use of pesticides, which demands in-depth analysis of their impact on indigenous rhizospheric microbial community structure and function. Hence, the objective of the present work was to study the impact of two chemical pesticides (chlorpyrifos and cypermethrin) and one biological pesticide (azadirachtin) at two dosages on the microbial community structure using cultivation-dependent approach and on rhizospheric bacterial communities involved in nitrogen cycle in Vigna radiata rhizosphere through cultivation-independent technique of real-time PCR. Cultivation-dependent study highlighted the adverse effects of both chemical pesticide and biopesticide on rhizospheric bacterial and fungal communities at different plant growth stages. Also, an adverse effect on number of genes and transcripts of nifH (nitrogen fixation); amoA (nitrification); and narG, nirK, and nirS (denitrification) was observed. The results from the present study highlighted two points, firstly that nontarget effects of pesticides are significantly detrimental to soil microflora, and despite being of biological origin, azadirachtin exerted negative impact on rhizospheric microbial community of V. radiata behaving similar to chemical pesticides. Hence, such nontarget effects of chemical pesticide and biopesticide in plants' rhizosphere, which bring out the larger picture in terms of their ecotoxicological effect, demand a proper risk assessment before application of pesticides as agricultural amendments.
Using an F2 population derived from cultivated and wild azuki bean, we previously detected a reciprocal translocation and a seed size QTL near the translocation site. To test the hypothesis that the translocation in the cultivated variety contributed to the larger seed size, we performed further linkage analyses with several cross combinations between cultivated and wild azuki beans. In addition, we visually confirmed the translocation by cytogenetic approach using 25 wild and cultivated accessions. As a result, we found the translocation-type chromosomes in none of the cultivated accessions, but in a number of the wild accessions. Interestingly, all the wild accessions with the translocation were originally collected from East Japan, while all the accessions with normal chromosomes were from West Japan or the Sea of Japan-side region. Such biased geographical distribution could be explained by the glacial refugium hypothesis, and supported narrowing down the domestication origin of cultivated azuki bean.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important legume species well adapted to low fertility soils and prolonged drought periods. One of the main problems that cause severe yield losses in cowpea is the root-knot nematode Meloidogyne incognita. The aim of this work was to analyze the differential expression of proteins in the contrasting cultivars of cowpea CE 31 (highly resistant) and CE 109 (slightly resistant) during early stages of M. incognita infection. Cowpea roots were collected at 3, 6, and 9 days after inoculation and used for protein extraction and 2-DE analysis. From a total of 59 differential spots, 37 proteins were identified, mostly involved in plant defense, such as spermidine synthase, patatin, proteasome component, and nitrile-specifier protein. A follow-up study was performed by quantitative RT-PCR analysis of nine selected proteins and the results revealed a very similar upregulation trend between the protein expression profiles and the corresponding transcripts. This study also identified ACT and GAPDH as a good combination of reference genes for quantitative RT-PCR analysis of the pathosystem cowpea/nematode. Additionally, an interactome analysis showed three major pathways affected by nematode infection: proteasome endopeptidase complex, oxidative phosphorylation, and flavonoid biosynthesis. Taken together, the results obtained by proteome, transcriptome, and interactome approaches suggest that oxidative stress, ubiquitination, and glucosinolate degradation may be part of cowpea CE 31 resistance mechanisms in response to nematode infection.
Adzuki bean (Vigna angularis var. angularis) is a dietary legume crop in East Asia. The presumed progenitor (Vigna angularis var. nipponensis) is widely found in East Asia, suggesting speciation and domestication in these temperate climate regions. Here, we report a draft genome sequence of adzuki bean. The genome assembly covers 75% of the estimated genome and was mapped to 11 pseudo-chromosomes. Gene prediction revealed 26,857 high confidence protein-coding genes evidenced by RNAseq of different tissues. Comparative gene expression analysis with V. radiata showed that the tissue specificity of orthologous genes was highly conserved. Additional re-sequencing of wild adzuki bean, V. angularis var. nipponensis, and V. nepalensis, was performed to analyze the variations between cultivated and wild adzuki bean. The determined divergence time of adzuki bean and the wild species predated archaeology-based domestication time. The present genome assembly will accelerate the genomics-assisted breeding of adzuki bean.
Antioxidative compounds were quantified from the leaves of nine black gram (Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper) genotypes over a period of two years, for potential whitefly, Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius) (Hemiptera: Aleryrodidae) resistance. Oviposition preference, nymphal and adult development were evaluated under screen-house conditions. Biochemical analysis revealed that higher per cent increase in the total phenol and o-dihydroxy phenol contents both at 30 and 50 days after sowing was evident in moderately resistant genotypes NDU 5-7 (49.6 and 50.8%, respectively) and KU 99-20 (47.8 and 50.8%, respectively) under whitefly stress conditions as compared to non-stressed plants. Tannin and flavonol contents in leaves increased to varying degrees (up to 11.1 and 7.1%, respectively) in resistant plants after whitefly infestation, indicating that the changes in tannin and flavonol contents were closely associated with the resistance to whitefly. Correlation studies relating leaf content of black gram antioxidative compounds from different genotypes with whitefly population were also worked out. Total phenols (r = -0.71 & -0.88), o- dihydroxy phenols (r = -0.56 & -0.76), flavonols (r = -0.80 & -0.81) and tannins (r= -0.16 & -0.26) showed significant negative correlation with whitefly population (nymphs and adults) suggesting that enhanced level of these biochemicals may contribute to bioprotection of black gram plants against B. tabaci infestation. Comparatively higher level of resistance in genotype NDU 5-7 and KU 99-20 can serve as base for genetic improvement of black gram, focusing on the development of resistant varieties to B. tabaci.
Eureka lemon (Citrus limon) is an economically important crop in China. In 2009, a new disease was observed on Eureka lemon in an orchard of Ruili city in Yunnan Province. Nearly 10% of the plants were symptomatic with yellow vein clearing on lateral veins, combined with leaf crinkling and warping of young leaves. Water-soaked appearances were also seen on the adaxial leaf veins. The symptoms were present on mature leaves, resulting in almost 20% yield reduction. The symptoms on leaves were more severe in spring and autumn than in summer. This disease was transmitted by grafting from infected Eureka lemon to six lemon (C. limon) varieties (Femminello, Fino, Villafranca, Verna, Kutdiken, and Monachello) and two sour orange (C. aurantium) varieties (Daidai, Morocco), with inoculated plants showing similar symptoms. Variable symptoms were observed on other hosts, including severe yellowing and vein clearing on Dweet tangor (C. reticulata × C. sinensis), slight vein clearing on Tongshui 72-1 sweet orange (C. sinensis) and Marsh grapefruit (C. paradisi), but no symptoms were observed on Etrog citron (C. medica), Mexican lime (C. aurantifolia), or Ponkan (C. reticulata). When infected branches from Etrog citron, Mexican lime, and Ponkan were grafted onto healthy Morocco sour orange, typical yellowing and vein clearing symptoms were observed. In the mechanical transmission trials using eight herbaceous plant species, leaf rolling, shrinking, and pointed necrosis were observed on Vigna unguiculata, slight leaf rolling symptoms were observed on Capsicum frutescens, whereas Lycopersicum esculenum, Nicotiana benthamiana, Momordica charantia, Solanum melongena, Cucumis sativus, and Sesamum indicum remained symptomless. Symptom expression was influenced by temperature, being visible between 18 and 24°C but disappearing over 32°C. Crude extracts from young symptomatic lemon leaves were negatively stained for transmission electron microscopy observation (1) and showed filamentous virus particles of 13 to 15 × 400 to 1,000 nm. The described combination of symptoms in citrus species and herbaceous indicators, and virus morphology revealed by electron microscopy, suggested presence of Citrus yellow vein clearing virus (CYVCV). RNA extractions were made from 52 samples of Eureka lemon with yellow vein clearing symptoms. A one-step RT-PCR using primer pair (sense: 5'-TACCGCAGCTATCCATTTCC-3' and antisense: 5'-GCAGAAATCCCGAACCACTA-3'), designed from coat protein gene of CYVCV genome (GenBank Accession No. JX040635) (1), was performed. All of the symptomatic samples yielded the expected cDNA fragment and no amplicon was obtained from healthy plants. Three PCR amplicons were selected for cloning and sequencing. BLAST analysis showed that these nucleotide sequences (KJ859679 to 81) had greater than 97% nucleotide identity with the corresponding region of CYVCV reference genome (2), and therefore, this disease was associated with CYVCV. Symptoms resembling CYVCV infection were observed in China before (3); however, to our knowledge, this is the first proven report of CYVCV present in China. The identification of the pathogen now allows for appropriate field management and control measures. References: (1) V. Grimaldi et al. 13th IOCV Conference, 343-345, 1996. (2) G. Loconsole et al. Phytopathology 102:1168, 2012. (3) C. Zhou et al. 18th IOCV Conference, 44, 2010.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata) is a fast-growing, warm-season legume crop that is primarily cultivated in developing countries of Asia. Here we construct a draft genome sequence of mungbean to facilitate genome research into the subgenus Ceratotropis, which includes several important dietary legumes in Asia, and to enable a better understanding of the evolution of leguminous species. Based on the de novo assembly of additional wild mungbean species, the divergence of what was eventually domesticated and the sampled wild mungbean species appears to have predated domestication. Moreover, the de novo assembly of a tetraploid Vigna species (V. reflexo-pilosa var. glabra) provides genomic evidence of a recent allopolyploid event. The species tree is constructed using de novo RNA-seq assemblies of 22 accessions of 18 Vigna species and protein sets of Glycine max. The present assembly of V. radiata var. radiata will facilitate genome research and accelerate molecular breeding of the subgenus Ceratotropis.
Plant vacuolar NHX exchangers play a significant role in adaption to salt stress by compartmentalizing excess cytosolic Na+ into vacuoles and maintaining cellular homeostasis and ionic equilibrium. We cloned an orthologue of the vacuolar Na+/H+ antiporter gene, VrNHX1 from mungbean (Vigna radiata), an important Asiatic grain legume. The VrNHX1 (Genbank Accession number JN656211.1) contains 2095 nucleotides with an open reading frame of 1629 nucleotides encoding a predicted protein of 542 amino acids with a deduced molecular mass of 59.6 kDa. The consensus amiloride binding motif (84LFFIYLLPPI93) was observed in the third putative transmembrane domain of VrNHX1. Bioinformatic and phylogenetic analysis clearly suggested that VrNHX1 had high similarity to those of orthologs belonging to Class-I clade of plant NHX exchangers in leguminous crops. VrNHX1 could be strongly induced by salt stress in mungbean as the expression in roots significantly increased in presence of 200 mM NaCl with concomitant accumulation of total [Na+]. Induction of VrNHX1 was also observed under cold and dehydration stress, indicating a possible cross talk between various abiotic stresses. Heterologous expression in salt sensitive yeast mutant AXT3 complemented for the loss of yeast vacuolar NHX1 under NaCl, KCl and LiCl stress indicating that VrNHX1 was the orthologue of ScNHX1. Further, AXT3 cells expressing VrNHX1 survived under low pH environment and displayed vacuolar alkalinization analyzed using pH sensitive fluorescent dye BCECF-AM. The constitutive and stress inducible expression of VrNHX1 resulted in enhanced salt tolerance in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana lines. Our work suggested that VrNHX1 was a salt tolerance determinant in mungbean.
The researches on D-hydantoinase activity and substrate specificity towards dihydropyrimidine and hydantoin derivatives have been carried out intensively over the last few decades. So far, the major efforts have focused on (R,S)-5-phenylhydantoin and (R,S)-5-(4-hydroxyphenyl)hydantoin, the most desirable D-hydantoinase substrates from pharmaceutical industry point of view. However, it was shown that D-hydantoinase is a substrate-dependent enzyme, and its activity and stereoselectivity towards 5-monosubstituted hydantoins varied significantly with the type of substrate and the source of the enzyme. The aim of this study was to estimate the substrate specificity of D-hydantoinase towards series of 5-benzylhydantoin derivatives with halogen and methyl substituents in the phenyl ring. The biotransformations were carried out by using commercial enzyme: immobilized, recombinant, cloned, and expressed in Escherichia coli D-hydantoinase from Vigna angularis (rD-HYD). All reactions were monitored by capillary electrophoresis (CE), and the conversion yields were calculated. Additionally, enantiomeric ratios of the obtained D-phenylalanine derivatives were estimated by chiral high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Interestingly, the differences in the activities of examined enzyme towards particular 5-benzylhydantoin derivatives were observed. CE was also shown as a promising method for monitoring the hydrolysis of new substrates by D-hydantoinase and further analyzing of enzyme substrate specificity.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important grain legume cultivated in drought-prone parts of the world, having higher tolerance to heat and drought than many other crops. The transcription factor, Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding protein 2A (DREB2A), controls expression of many genes involved in osmotic and heat stress responses of plants. In Arabidopsis, DREB2A-interacting proteins (DRIPs), which function as E3 ubiquitin ligases (EC 6.3.2.19), regulate the stability of DREB2A by targeting it for proteasome-mediated degradation. In this study, we cloned the cowpea ortholog of DRIP (VuDRIP) using PCR based methods. The 1614 bp long VuDRIP mRNA encoded a protein of 433 amino acids having a C3HC4-type Really Interesting New Gene (RING) domain in the N-terminus and a C-terminal conserved region, similar to Arabidopsis DRIP1 and DRIP2. We found VuDRIP up-regulation in response to various abiotic stresses and phytohormones. Using yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisae) two-hybrid analysis, VuDRIP was identified as a VuDREB2A-interacting protein. The results indicate negative regulation of VuDREB2A by ubiquitin ligases in cowpea similar to Arabidopsis along with their other unknown roles in stress and hormone signaling pathways.
A Vigna nakashimae (VN) extract has been shown to have antidiabetic and anti-obesity effects. However, the mechanism underlying the effect of a VN extract on hepatic inflammation and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated how a VN extract protects against the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). A VN extract for 12 weeks reduced the body weight, serum metabolic parameters, cytokines, and hepatic steatosis in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice. A VN extract decreased HFD-induced hepatic acetyl CoA carboxylase and glucose transporter 4 expressions. In addition to the levels of high-mobility group box 1 and receptor for advanced glycation, the hepatic expression of ATF4 and caspase-3 was also reduced by a VN extract. Thus, these data indicate that a chronic VN extract prevented NAFLD through multiple mechanisms, including inflammation, ER stress, and apoptosis in the liver.
VuDREB2A exists in cowpea as a canonical DREB2-type transcription factor, having the ability to bind dehydration-responsive elements in vitro and confer enhanced drought resistance in transgenic Arabidopsis. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important cultivated legume that can survive better in arid conditions than other crops. But the molecular mechanisms involved in the drought tolerance of this species remain elusive with very few reported candidate genes. The Dehydration-Responsive Element-Binding Protein2 (DREB2) group of transcription factors plays key roles in plant responses to drought. However, no DREB2 ortholog has been reported from cowpea so far. In this study, we isolated and characterized a gene from cowpea, namely VuDREB2A, encoding a protein of 377 amino acids exhibiting features of reported DREB2-type proteins. In cowpea, VuDREB2A transcript accumulation was highly induced by desiccation, heat and salt, but slightly by exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) treatment. We also isolated the VuDREB2A promoter and predicted stress-responsive cis-elements in it using Arabidopsis microarray data. The E. coli-expressed VuDREB2A protein showed binding to synthetic oligonucleotides with Dehydration-Responsive Elements (DREs) from Arabidopsis, in electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Heterologous expression of VuDREB2A in Arabidopsis significantly improved plant survival under drought. In addition, overexpression of a truncated version of VuDREB2A, after removal of a putative negative regulatory domain (between amino acids 132-182) led to a dwarf phenotype in the transgenic plants. Microarray and quantitative PCR analyses of VuDREB2A overexpressing Arabidopsis revealed up-regulation of stress-responsive genes having DRE overrepresented in their promoters. In summary, our results indicate that VuDREB2A conserves the basic functionality and mode of regulation of DREB2A in Arabidopsis and could be a potent candidate gene for the genetic improvement of drought resistance in cowpea.
Moth bean (Vigna aconitifolia (Jacq.) Marechal), an important grain-legume crop grown in hot desert regions of Thar, under scorching sun rays, was investigated for heat tolerance at molecular level. In the present study, we constructed a forward suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) cDNA library of heat tolerant genotype RMO-40 to identify genes expressing under delayed response to elevated temperature. Heat induction was carried out by exposing 14-day-old seedlings to elevated temperature of 42 °C for 30 min. A total of 125 unigenes (33 contigs and 92 singletons) were derived by cluster assembly and sequence alignment of 200 ESTs; out of 125 unigenes, 21 (16 %) were found to be novel to moth bean. Gene ontology functional classification terms were retrieved for 98 (78.4 %) unigenes of which 73 (58.4 %) ESTs were functionally annotated (GO consensus) where 19 unigenes were annotated with 11 enzyme commission (EC) codes and were mapped to 25 different KEGG pathways. We have identified a majority of heat-shock proteins (constituting 35 % of the present library) aiding heat stress tolerance to moth bean. An expression level of 22 ESTs generated from the above SSH cDNA library was studied through semiquantitative RT-PCR assay simultaneously under 5 and 30 min of heat stress at 42 °C.
This paper presents the first study describing the isolation, cloning and characterization of a full length gene encoding Bowman-Birk protease inhibitor (RbTI) from rice bean (Vigna umbellata). A full-length protease inhibitor gene with complete open reading frame of 327 bp encoding 109 amino acids was cloned from rice bean seeds using degenerate primer set. BlastP search revealed that the RbTI encoded amino acid of approx 13.0 kDa and shared 99% homology each with BBI from Phaseolus parvulus, Vigna trilobata and Vigna vexilata. Phylogenetic tree also showed close relationship of RbTI with BBI from other members of Leguminaceae family. RbTI gene was further confirmed as intronless (GenBank accession no. KJ159908). The secondary and 3D-structural models for the RbTI were predicted with homology modeling. qRT-PCR studies revealed the highest RbTI expression in the seeds nearing maturity, whereas the low expression of the gene was noticed in young leaves. The isolated RbTI was successfully expressed in Escherichiacoli and the highest expression was recorded after 5.5h of induction. Study on the inhibitory activity of expressed protein against the gut proteases of Hessian fly larvae revealed 87% inhibition. The novel RbTI gene will further broaden the pool of plant defense genes and could be an ideal choice for developing transgenic crops resistant to insect pests with high economic value. In addition, it has the potential to be used as a probe for selection of insect- and pathogen-resistant genotypes.
Cowpea cultivars differing in salt tolerance reveal differences in protein profiles and adopt different strategies to overcome salt stress. Salt-tolerant cultivar shows induction of proteins related to photosynthesis and energy metabolism. Salinity is a major abiotic stress affecting plant cultivation and productivity. The objective of this study was to examine differential proteomic responses to salt stress in leaves of the cowpea cultivars Pitiúba (salt tolerant) and TVu 2331 (salt sensitive). Plants of both cultivars were subjected to salt stress (75 mM NaCl) followed by a recovery period of 5 days. Proteins extracted from leaves of both cultivars were analyzed by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) under salt stress and after recovery. In total, 22 proteins differentially regulated by both salt and recovery were identified by LC-ESI-MS/MS. Our current proteome data revealed that cowpea cultivars adopted different strategies to overcome salt stress. For the salt-tolerant cultivar (Pitiúba), increase in abundance of proteins involved in photosynthesis and energy metabolism, such as rubisco activase, ribulose-5-phosphate kinase (Ru5PK) (EC 2.7.1.19), glycine decarboxylase (EC 1.4.4.2) and oxygen-evolving enhancer (OEE) protein 2, was observed. However, these vital metabolic processes were more profoundly affected in salt-sensitive cultivar (TVu), as indicated by the down-regulation of OEE protein 1, Mn-stabilizing protein-II, carbonic anhydrase (EC 4.2.1.1) and Rubisco (EC 4.1.1.39), leading to energy reduction and a decline in plant growth. Other proteins differentially regulated in both cultivars corresponded to different physiological responses. Overall, our results provide information that could lead to a better understanding of the molecular basis of salt tolerance and sensitivity in cowpea plants.
Vigna radiata (mung bean) is an important crop plant and is a major protein source in developing countries. Mung bean 8S globulins constitute nearly 90% of total seed storage protein and consist of three subunits designated as 8SGα, 8SGα' and 8SGβ. The 5'-flanking sequences of 8SGα' has been reported to confer high expression in transgenic Arabidopsis seeds. In this study, a 472-bp 5'-flanking sequence of 8SGα was identified by genome walking. Computational analysis subsequently revealed the presence of numerous putative seed-specific cis-elements within. The 8SGα promoter was then fused to the gene encoding β-glucuronidase (GUS) to create a reporter construct for Arabidopsis thaliana transformation. The spatial and temporal expression of 8SGα∷GUS, as investigated using GUS histochemical assays, showed GUS expression exclusively in transgenic Arabidopsis seeds. Quantitative GUS assays revealed that the 8SGα promoter showed 2- to 4-fold higher activity than the Cauliflower Mosaic Virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. This study has identified a seed-specific promoter of high promoter strength, which is potentially useful for directing foreign protein expression in seed bioreactors.
Significant secretion of citrate from root apex of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) is delayed by several hours under aluminium (Al) stress. However, the molecular basis of regulation of VuMATE1, a gene encoding an Al-activated citrate transporter, remains unclear. In this study, we used suppression subtractive hybridization together with reverse northern blot analysis and qRT-PCR to identify genes with altered transcript levels in the root apex after treatment with low (5 μm) or high (25 μm) concentration of AlCl(3) for a short time (4 h). We found that in addition to VuMATE1, 393 genes showed an early response to Al. Among functionally annotated genes, those related to 'metabolism and energy', 'signal transduction and transcription' and 'transport' was predominantly up-regulated, whereas those associated with 'protein translation, processing and degradation' was predominantly down-regulated. Comparative analysis of transcriptional profiles highlighted candidate genes associated with citrate secretion and revealed several new aspects of the molecular processes underlying Al toxicity and tolerance. Based on the data, it is proposed that metabolic changes represent adaptive mechanisms to Al stress, whereas inhibition of both cell elongation and cell division underlies Al-induced root growth inhibition.
Sarcolipin (SLN) and phospholamban (PLN) inhibit the activity of sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPases (SERCAs) by reducing their apparent affinity for Ca(2+). A ternary complex between SLN, PLN, and SERCAs results in super-inhibition of SERCA activity. Analysis of skeletal muscle homogenate has limited our current understanding of whether SLN and PLN regulate SERCA1a, SERCA2a, or both in skeletal muscle and whether SLN and PLN are co-expressed in skeletal muscle fibers. Biopsies from human vastus lateralis were analyzed through single fiber Western blotting and immunohisto/fluorescence staining to circumvent this limitation. With a newly generated SLN antibody, we report for the first time that SLN protein is present in human skeletal muscle. Addition of the SLN antibody (50 µg) to vastus lateralis homogenates increased the apparent Ca(2+) affinity of SERCA (K Ca, pCa units) (-Ab, 5.85 ± 0.02 vs. +Ab, 5.95 ± 0.02) and maximal SERCA activity (μmol/g protein/min) (-Ab, 122 ± 6.4 vs. +Ab, 159 ± 11) demonstrating a functional interaction between SLN and SERCAs in human vastus lateralis. Specifically, our results suggest that although SLN and PLN may preferentially regulate SERCA1a, and SERCA2a, respectively, physiologically they both may regulate either SERCA isoform. Furthermore, we show that SLN and PLN co-immunoprecipitate in human vastus lateralis homogenate and are simultaneously expressed in 81% of the fibers analyzed with Western blotting which implies that super-inhibition of SERCA may exist in human skeletal muscle. Finally, we demonstrate unequivocally that mouse soleus contains PLN protein suggesting that super-inhibition of SERCA may also be important physiologically in rodent skeletal muscle.
Experimental studies have shown involvement of Wnt signalling in heart failure (HF). We hypothesized that secreted frizzled-related protein 3 (sFRP3), a modulator of Wnt signalling, is related to the progression of HF. Circulating sFRP3 was measured in 153 HF patients and compared with 25 healthy controls. The association of sFRP3 with mortality was evaluated in 1202 patients (GISSI-HF trial). sFRP3 mRNA expression was assessed in failing human and murine left ventricles (LV), and cellular localization was determined after fractioning of myocardial tissue. In vitro studies were carried out in cardiac fibroblasts subjected to cyclic mechanical stretch. (i) Heart failure patients had significantly raised serum sFRP3 levels compared with controls, (ii) during a median follow-up of 47 months, 315 patients died in the GISSI-HF substudy. In univariable Cox regression, tertiles of baseline sFRP3 concentration were significantly associated with all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. After adjustment for demographic and clinical variables, but not for CRP and NT-proBNP, the associations with mortality remained significant for the third tertile (all-cause, HR 1.45, P = 0.011; cardiovascular, HR 1.66, P = 0.003), (iii) sFRP3 mRNA expression was increased in failing human LV, with a decline following LV assist device therapy. LV from post-MI mice showed an increased sFRP3 mRNA level, particularly in cardiac fibroblasts, and (iv) mechanical stretch enhanced sFRP3 expression and release in myocardial fibroblasts. There is an association between increased sFRP3 expression and adverse outcome in HF, suggesting that the failing myocardium itself contributes to an increase in circulating sFRP3.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent a class of small non-coding RNA molecules that play a crucial role in post-transcriptional gene regulation. Several conserved and species-specific miRNAs have been characterized to date, predominantly from the plant species whose genome is well characterized. However, information on the variability of these regulatory RNAs in economically important but genetically less characterized crop species are limited. Vigna mungo is an important grain legume, which is grown primarily for its protein-rich edible seeds. miRNAs from this species have not been identified to date due to lack of genome sequence information. To identify miRNAs from V. mungo, a small RNA library was constructed from young leaves. High-throughput Illumina sequencing technology and bioinformatic analysis of the small RNA reads led to the identification of 66 miRNA loci represented by 45 conserved miRNAs belonging to 19 families and eight non-conserved miRNAs belonging to seven families. Besides, 13 novel miRNA candidates in V. mungo were also identified. Expression patterns of selected conserved, non-conserved, and novel miRNA candidates have been demonstrated in leaf, stem, and root tissues by quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and potential target genes were predicted for most of the conserved miRNAs. This information offers genomic resources for better understanding of miRNA mediated post-transcriptional gene regulation.
H⁺-translocating pyrophosphatase (H⁺-PPase, EC 3.6.1.1) plays an important role in acidifying vacuoles by transporting protons across membranes at the expense of pyrophosphate (PP(i)) hydrolysis. Vigna radiata H⁺-PPase (VrH⁺-PPase) contains 16 transmembrane helices (TMs). The hydrophobicity of TM3 is relatively lower than that of most other TMs, and the amino acids in this TM are highly conserved in plants. Furthermore, TM5 and -6, which are the core TMs involving in H⁺-PPase functions, are near TM3. It is thus proposed that TM3 is associated with H⁺-PPase activity. To address this possibility, site-directed mutagenesis was applied in this investigation to determine the role of TM3 in VrH⁺-PPase. Upon alanine/serine substitution, T138 and S142, whose side chains face toward the center TMs, were found to be involved in efficient proton transport. G149/S153 and G160/A164 pairs at the crucial termini of the two GxxxG-like motifs are indispensable in maintaining enzymatic activities and conformational stability. Moreover, stability in the vicinity surrounding G149 is pivotal for efficient expression. S153, M161 and A164 are critical for the K⁺-mediated stimulation of H⁺-PPase. Taken together, our results demonstrate that TM3 plays essential roles in PP(i) hydrolysis, proton transport, expression, and K⁺ stimulation of H⁺-PPase.
In this work we have characterised the Sinorhizobium fredii HH103 greA lpsB lpsCDE genetic region and analysed for the first time the symbiotic performance of Sinorhizobium fredii lps mutants on soybean. The organization of the S. fredii HH103 greA, lpsB, and lpsCDE genes was equal to that of Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021. S. fredii HH103 greA, lpsB, and lpsE mutant derivatives produced altered LPS profiles that were characteristic of the gene mutated. In addition, S. fredii HH103 greA mutants showed a reduction in bacterial mobility and an increase of auto-agglutination in liquid cultures. RT-PCR and qPCR experiments demonstrated that the HH103 greA gene has a positive effect on the transcription of lpsB. Soybean plants inoculated with HH103 greA, lpsB or lpsE mutants formed numerous ineffective pseudonodules and showed severe symptoms of nitrogen starvation. However, HH103 greA and lps mutants were also able to induce the formation of a reduced number of soybean nodules of normal external morphology, allowing the possibility of studying the importance of bacterial LPS in later stages of the S. fredii HH103-soybean symbiosis. The infected cells of these nodules showed signs of early termination of symbiosis and lytical clearance of bacteroids. These cells also had very thick walls and accumulation of phenolic-like compounds, pointing to induced defense reactions. Our results show the importance of bacterial LPS in later stages of the S. fredii HH103-soybean symbiosis and their role in preventing host cell defense reactions. S. fredii HH103 lpsB mutants also showed reduced nodulation with Vigna unguiculata, although the symbiotic impairment was less pronounced than in soybean.
The present study was conducted in order to assess whether extracts or isolated compounds from Vigna angularis were able to suppress IL-6 signalling and to show the therapeutic effect on collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in mice. The effect of V. angularis on IL-6 signalling was studied by measuring Stat3-dependent luciferase activity, expression of inflammation-related genes, and phosphorylation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) induced by IL-6. CIA was induced by immunizing with bovine type II collagen. V. angularis extract (VAE) was administrated orally at 50 and 100 mg/kg from day 1 to day 28. Induction of arthritis was evaluated with a visual scoring system and histological analysis. Extracts or two triterpenoid compounds from V. angularis showed potent inhibitory effects on pSTAT3-inducible luciferase activity, STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation and the expression of inflammation-related genes induced by IL-6. Administration of VAE significantly suppressed the progression of CIA, accompanied by a reduced antibody response to type II collagen and protection from tissue damage in knee joints. Administration of VAE has a therapeutic effect on CIA and this effect is associated with the inhibitory activity on IL-6/STAT3 signalling. These results suggest that extracts or compounds from V. angularis could be a useful treatment for diseases related to IL-6, including RA.
The present study investigates the interdependence of plant water status with foliar and root responses in Vigna radiata L.Wilczek under progressive drought. Vegetatively-mature V. radiata plants were subjected to water withdrawal for 3 and 6days (D3 and D6, respectively) and then re-watered subsequently for 6days (6R) for stress-recovery. Changes in plant water status were expressed in terms of leaf and root moisture contents (LMC and RMC, respectively) and leaf relative water content (LRWC). Progressive drought caused apparent decrease in LRWC, LMC and RMC depicting significant level of dehydration of leaf and root tissues. Stomatal limitation alone could not account for the observed decrease in net CO2 assimilation rates (Pn) due to comparatively less decrease in sub-stomatal CO2 (Ci) concentrations with respect to other gas exchange parameters indicating possible involvement of non-stomatal limitations. Analysis of polyphasic chl a fluorescence kinetics during progressive drought showed decreased energy connectivity among PSII units as defined by a positive L-band with highest amplitude during D6. Efficiency of electron flux from OEC towards PSII acceptor side was not significantly affected during drought conditions as evidenced by the absence of a positive K-band. Increasing root-level water-limitation enforced a gradual oxidative stress through H2O2 accumulation and membrane lipid peroxidation in V. radiata roots exhibiting drastic enhancement of proline content and a significant but gradual increase in ascorbic acid content as well as guaiacol peroxidase activity under progressive drought. Expression analysis of Δ(1) pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS) through real time PCR and enzyme activity studies showed a strong positive correlation between VrP5CS gene expression, enzyme activity and proline accumulation in the roots of V. radiata under progressive drought and recovery. Drought-induced changes in root moisture content (RMC) showed positive linear correlations with leaf water content, stomatal conductance as well as transpirational water loss dynamics and a significant negative correlation with the corresponding drought-induced expression patterns of ascorbate, guaiacol peroxidase and proline in roots of V. radiata. The study provides new insights into the plant water status-dependent interrelationship between photosynthetic performance and major root defense responses of V. radiata under progressive drought conditions.
To investigate the incidence and clinical relevance of classic and new prognostic markers, IGHV gene mutational status, and chromosomal abnormalities in clinical monoclonal B lymphocytosis (cMBL) compared with Rai stage 0 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (Rai0-CLL). A group of 136 patients with cMBL and a group of 216 Rai0-CLL cases were investigated prospectively. IGHV-mutated cases were significantly more frequent among cMBLs (P = 0.005), whereas the distribution of CD38 and ZAP-70 positive cases, of patients with NOTCH1 and SF3B1 mutations or exhibiting the major CLL cytogenetic abnormalities, was similar in the two groups. Moreover, no significant differences were found either in IGHV/IGHD/IGHJ gene usage or in the overall prevalence of stereotyped IGHV gene sequences. Cells from cMBL and Rai0-CLL exhibited similar gene and microRNA (miRNA) signatures; in addition, when grouped according to the IGHV mutational status, IGHV-unmutated cases showed different transcriptional signatures compared with IGHV-mutated patients, irrespective of the cMBL or Rai0-CLL classification. cMBL diagnosis per se was predictive of longer progression-free survival. Our study based on a prospective series of patients indicates that no major differences exist between the circulating cells from cMBL and Rai0-CLL, at least based on a comparison of the markers used in the study. This possibly suggests that the two conditions mainly differ in the initial size of the monoclonal cell population, which may influence the subsequent timing of clonal expansion and clinical manifestations.
Due to the key role played in critical sub-populations, Met is considered a relevant therapeutic target for glioblastoma multiforme and lung cancers. The anti-Met DN30 antibody, engineered to a monovalent Fab (Mv-DN30), proved to be a potent antagonist, inducing physical removal of Met receptor from the cell surface. In this study, we designed a gene therapy approach, challenging Mv-DN30 in preclinical models of Met-driven human glioblastoma and lung carcinoma. Mv-DN30 was delivered by a Tet-inducible-bidirectional lentiviral vector. Gene therapy solved the limitations dictated by the short half-life of the low molecular weight form of the antibody. In vitro, upon doxycycline induction, the transgene: (1) drove synthesis and secretion of the correctly assembled Mv-DN30; (2) triggered the displacement of Met receptor from the surface of target cancer cells; (3) suppressed the Met-mediated invasive growth phenotype. Induction of transgene expression in cancer cells-transplanted either subcutaneously or orthotopically in nude mice-resulted in inhibition of tumor growth. Direct Mv-DN30 gene transfer in nude mice, intra-tumor or systemic, was followed by a therapeutic response. These results provide proof of concept for a gene transfer immunotherapy strategy by a Fab fragment and encourage clinical studies targeting Met-driven cancers with Mv-DN30. Gene transfer allows the continuous in vivo production of therapeutic Fab fragments. Mv-DN30 is an excellent tool for the treatment of Met-driven cancers. Mv-DN30 gene therapy represents an innovative route for Met targeting.
The rhizobium-legume symbiosis is a model system for studying mutualistic interactions between bacteria and eukaryotes. Sinorhizobium sp. NGR234 is distinguished by its ability to form either indeterminate nodules or determinate nodules with diverse legumes. Here, we presented a high-resolution RNA-seq transcriptomic analysis of NGR234 bacteroids in indeterminate nodules of Leucaena leucocephala and determinate nodules of Vigna unguiculata. In contrast to exponentially growing free-living bacteria, non-growing bacteroids from both legumes recruited several common cellular functions such as cbb3 oxidase, thiamine biosynthesis, nitrate reduction pathway (NO-producing), succinate metabolism, PHB (poly-3-hydroxybutyrate) biosynthesis and phosphate/phosphonate transporters. However, different transcription profiles between bacteroids from two legumes were also uncovered for genes involved in the biosynthesis of exopolysaccharides, lipopolysaccharides, T3SS (type three secretion system) and effector proteins, cytochrome bd ubiquinol oxidase, PQQ (pyrroloquinoline quinone), cytochrome c550, pseudoazurin, biotin, phasins and glycolate oxidase, and in the metabolism of glutamate and phenylalanine. Noteworthy were the distinct expression patterns of genes encoding phasins, which are thought to be involved in regulating the surface/volume ratio of PHB granules. These patterns are in good agreement with the observed granule size difference between bacteroids from L. leucocephala and V. unguiculata.
In flowering plants, alternative oxidase (Aox) is encoded by 3-5 genes distributed in 2 subfamilies (Aox1 and Aox2). In several species only Aox1 is reported as a stress-responsive gene, but in the leguminous Vigna unguiculata Aox2b is also induced by stress. In this work we investigated the Aox genes from two leguminous species of the Medicago genus (Medicago sativa and Medicago truncatula) which present one Aox1, one Aox2a and an Aox2b duplication (named here Aox2b1 and Aox2b2). Expression analyses by semi-quantitative RT-PCR in M. sativa revealed that Aox1, Aox2b1 and Aox2b2 transcripts increased during seed germination. Similar analyses in leaves and roots under different treatments (SA, PEG, H2O2 and cysteine) revealed that these genes are also induced by stress, but with peculiar spatio-temporal differences. Aox1 and Aox2b1 showed basal levels of expression under control conditions and were induced by stress in leaves and roots. Aox2b2 presented a dual behavior, i.e., it was expressed only under stress conditions in leaves, and showed basal expression levels in roots that were induced by stress. Moreover, Aox2a was expressed at higher levels in leaves and during seed germination than in roots and appeared to be not responsive to stress. The Aox expression profiles obtained from a M. truncatula microarray dataset also revealed a stress-induced co-expression of Aox1, Aox2b1 and Aox2b2 in leaves and roots. These results reinforce the stress-inducible co-expression of Aox1/Aox2b in some leguminous plants. Comparative genomic analysis indicates that this regulation is linked to Aox1/Aox2b proximity in the genome as a result of the gene rearrangement that occurred in some leguminous plants during evolution. The differential expression of Aox2b1/2b2 suggests that a second gene has been originated by recent gene duplication with neofunctionalization.
Expression of ACT, EF1A; H2A, EF1A, ACT and 18S, TUB showed stability under MYMIV, salinity and drought stress, respectively; these are recommended as reference genes for qPCR normalization in Vigna mungo. Accurate gene expression profiling through qPCR depends on selection of appropriate reference gene(s) for normalization. Due to lack of unanimous internal standard, suitable constitutively expressed reference genes are selected that exhibit stable expression under diverse experimental conditions. In this communication, a comparative evaluation of stability among seven V. mungo genes encoding actin (ACT), histone H2A (H2A), elongation factor 1-alpha (EF1A), 18S rRNA (18S), glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), cyclophilin (CYP) and tubulin (TUB) under biotic (MYMIV) and abiotic (drought and salinity) stress conditions has been attempted. Specificity and amplification efficiency for each primer pair were verified; however, cumulative assessment of their accumulated transcripts revealed no uniformity. Therefore, individual stability and suitability of these seven candidates have been assessed in silico, by two widely used algorithms, geNorm and Normfinder. Based on the computed results, high stability was obtained for ACT and EF1A during MYMIV stress, while H2A, EFIA and ACT were found to be most suitable in salinity stress experiments and TUB and 18S during drought treatments. Combinations of ACT/TUB or ACT/EFIA were recommended for their use in the pooled analysis, while expression of 18S and CYP showed greater variations and therefore considered unsuitable as reference genes. Additionally, precise quantification of the target gene VmPRX under these stresses was shown to be a function of reference genes' stability, which tends to get affected when normalized with the least stable genes. Hence, use of these normalizers will facilitate accurate and reliable analyses of gene expression in V. mungo.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) is a satiety hormone produced by discrete enteroendocrine cells scattered among absorptive cells of the small intestine. CCK is released into blood following a meal; however, the mechanisms inducing hormone secretion are largely unknown. Ingested fat is the major stimulant of CCK secretion. We recently identified a novel member of the lipoprotein remnant receptor family known as immunoglobulin-like domain containing receptor 1 (ILDR1) in intestinal CCK cells and postulated that this receptor conveyed the signal for fat-stimulated CCK secretion. In the intestine, ILDR1 is expressed exclusively in CCK cells. Orogastric administration of fatty acids elevated blood levels of CCK in wild-type mice but not Ildr1-deficient mice, although the CCK secretory response to trypsin inhibitor was retained. The uptake of fluorescently labeled lipoproteins in ILDR1-transfected CHO cells and release of CCK from isolated intestinal cells required a unique combination of fatty acid plus HDL. CCK secretion secondary to ILDR1 activation was associated with increased [Ca2+]i, consistent with regulated hormone release. These findings demonstrate that ILDR1 regulates CCK release through a mechanism dependent on fatty acids and lipoproteins and that absorbed fatty acids regulate gastrointestinal hormone secretion.
The aim of the present study was to elucidate whether extracts of Vigna angularis (EVA) inhibit allergic inflammatory reactions and to elucidate the possible mechanisms of action. For the assessment of allergic inflammatory response, histamine release and the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines from human mast cells (HMC-1) were examined. To identify the underlying mechanisms of action, intracellular calcium and the activation of nuclear factor (NF)-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) were assayed. To confirm the effects of EVA in vivo, systemic and local allergic reaction mouse models were employed. EVA dose-dependently reduced phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and calcium ionophore A23187 (PMACI)-induced histamine release from mast cells. The inhibitory effects of EVA on the release of histamine from mast cells were mediated by the reduction of intracellular calcium levels. EVA decreased the PMACI-stimulated gene expression and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interleukin (IL)-6. The inhibitory effects of EVA on pro-inflammatory cytokines were NF-κB- and MAPK-dependent. In addition, EVA inhibited compound 48/80-induced systemic anaphylaxis and immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated cutaneous anaphylaxis. Our findings provide evidence that EVA inhibits mast cell-derived allergic inflammation, and suggest the possible therapeutic application of EVA in allergic inflammatory disorders.
The ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 (UBC E2) mediates selective ubiquitination, acting with E1 and E3 enzymes to designate specific proteins for subsequent degradation. In the present study, we characterized the function of the mung bean VrUBC1 gene (Vigna radiata UBC 1). RNA gel-blot analysis showed that VrUBC1 mRNA expression was induced by either dehydration, high salinity or by the exogenous abscisic acid (ABA), but not by low temperature or wounding. Biochemical studies of VrUBC1 recombinant protein and complementation of yeast ubc4/5 by VrUBC1 revealed that VrUBC1 encodes a functional UBC E2. To understand the function of this gene in development and plant responses to osmotic stresses, we overexpressed VrUBC1 in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The VrUBC1-overexpressing plants displayed highly sensitive responses to ABA and osmotic stress during germination, enhanced ABA- or salt-induced stomatal closing, and increased drought stress tolerance. The expression levels of a number of key ABA signaling genes were increased in VrUBC1-overexpressing plants compared to the wild-type plants. Yeast two-hybrid and bimolecular fluorescence complementation demonstrated that VrUBC1 interacts with AtVBP1 (A. thalianaVrUBC1 Binding Partner 1), a C3HC4-type RING E3 ligase. Overall, these results demonstrate that VrUBC1 plays a positive role in osmotic stress tolerance through transcriptional regulation of ABA-related genes and possibly through interaction with a novel RING E3 ligase.
Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), which are differentiated from other antibiotic peptides, such as gramicidins and polymyxins, because they are synthesized by large enzymatic complex and bear modified amino acids including d-amino acids, are short polymers of l-amino acids synthesized by ribosomes upon which all living organisms rely to defend themselves from invaders or competitor microorganisms. AMPs have received a great deal of attention from the scientific community as potential new drugs for neglected diseases such as Leishmaniasis. In plants, they include several families of compounds, including the plant defensins. The aim of the present study was to improve the expression of recombinant defensin from Vigna unguiculata seeds (Vu-Defr) and to test its activity against Leishmania amazonensis promatigotes. Recombinant expression was performed in LB and TB media and under different conditions. The purification of Vu-Defr was achieved by immobilized metal ion affinity and reversed-phase chromatography. The purified Vu-Defr was analyzed by circular dichroism (CD), and its biological activity was tested against L. amazonenis promastigotes. To demonstrate that the recombinant production of Vu-Defr did not interfere with its fold and biological activity, the results of all experiments were compared with the results from the natural defensin (Vu-Def). The CD spectra of both peptides presented good superimposition indicating that both peptides present very similar secondary structure and that the Vu-Defr was correctly folded. L. amazonensis treated with Vu-Defr led to the elimination of 54.3% and 46.9% of the parasites at 24 and 48h of incubation time, respectively. Vu-Def eliminated 50% and 54.8% of the parasites at 24 and 48 h, respectively. Both were used at a concentration of 100 μg/mL. These results suggested the potential for plant defensins to be used as new antiparasitic substances.
Plants are proven effective bioreactors for the production of heterologous proteins including those desired by the biopharmaceutical industry. However, the potential of plants as bioreactors is limited by the availability of characterized plant promoters that can drive target gene expression in relatively distant plant species. Seeds are ideal for protein storage because seed proteins can be kept stably for several months. Hence, a strong promoter that can direct the expression and accumulation of target proteins within seeds represents a powerful tool in plant biotechnology. Toward this end, an effort was made to identify such a promoter from Vigna radiata (mung bean) to drive expression in dicot seeds. A 784-bp 5'-flanking sequence of the gene encoding the 8S globulin α' subunit (8SGα') of the V. radiata seed storage protein was isolated by genome walking. When the 5'-flanking region was analyzed with bioinformatics tools, numerous putative cis-elements were identified. The Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) regulated by this promoter was observed to be transiently expressed in protoplasts derived from V. radiata cotyledons. Finally, transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene driven from the 8S globulin α' promoter showed strong GUS expression in transgenic embryos in both histochemical and quantitative GUS assays, confirming high expression within seeds. Therefore, the V. radiata 8S α' promoter has shown potential in directing expression in seeds for bioreactor applications.
Proteomic analysis of developing mungbean (Vigna radiata L.) seeds has not yet been investigated in detail. Fifty-seven proteins were separated by 2-DE, identified by nanoelectrospray mass spectrometry from the present protein databases, and categorized according to their functions. Many of the identified enzymes were involved in central carbon metabolism; thus, a pathway illustrating starch synthesis/breakdown, sugar conversion for glycolysis, and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle was proposed. Quantitative comparison of the protein expression revealed that during developmental process (11-21 days after flowering, DAF), proteins involved in glycolysis, TCA cycle, and alcoholic fermentation showed a trend to be down-regulated, whereas storage proteins were generally up-regulated. The downward tendency of central carbon metabolic proteins suggests a reduction in ATP and oxygen consumption associated with accumulation of storage compounds. UDP-glucose-1-pyrophosphorylase, an upstream enzyme in the starch ADP-Glc pathway, was found as a stably expressed protein throughout the growth stage, demonstrating its importance in mungbean starch biosynthesis. The temporal expression of metabolic enzymes suggests the coordination of an acclimation mechanism and cellular processes associated with accumulation of storage compounds in seed development.
Vigna unguiculata (VU) leaves are edible and used as a leafy vegetable in cuisine from traditional times in India. This study was designed to investigate the cardioprotective effect of VU in cholesterol fed rabbits. The animals were randomly divided into 4 groups of 6 animals each and the experimental period was 3 months. Group I-ND [normal diet 40 g feed], Group II-ND + FVU [flavanoid fraction of Vigna unguiculata (150 mg kg (-1) per body weight)], Group III-ND + CH [cholesterol (400 mg)] and Group IV-ND + CH (400 mg) +FVU (150 mg kg(-1) per body weight). After the experimental period, animals were sacrificed and the various parameters, such as cardiac markers, toxicity parameters, genotoxicity and gene expression, were investigated. Cholesterol feeding causes a significant increase in the levels of cardiac marker enzymes, namely lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine phospokinase (CPK), atherogenic index, toxicity parameters like serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (SGOT) and serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase (SGPT) were elevated. Antioxidant enzyme levels were decreased, lipid peroxidation products in heart tissue and inflammatory markers, namely cyclooxygenase (COX2) and lipooxygenase (LOX15) in peripheral blood monocytes (PBMCs), were significantly increased. A genotoxicity study using a Comet assay and gene expression by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) of transforming growth factor-b1 (TGF-b1) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) from heart tissue showed an altered expression in the disease group. The supplementation of the flavonoid fraction of Vigna unguiculata leaves (FVU) in the CH + FVU group caused the reversal of the above parameters and cardiotoxicity to near normal when compared with the CH group and FVU. This study revealed the cardioprotective nature of Vigna unguiculata in preventing cardiovascular diseases and this effect is attributed to the presence of antioxidants and the antihyperlipidemic properties of the flavonoid fraction of Vigna unguiculata leaves.
Two native epoxide hydrolases (EHs) were previously discovered from mung bean powder (Vigna radiata), both of which can catalyze the enantioconvergent hydrolysis of p-nitrostyrene oxide (pNSO). In this study, the encoding gene of VrEH1 was successfully cloned from the cDNA of V. radiata by RT-PCR and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) technologies. High homologies were found to two putative EHs originated from Glycine max (80%) and Medicago truncatula (79%). The vreh1 gene constructed in pET28a(+) vector was then heterologously overexpressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3), and the encoded protein was purified to homogeneity by nickel affinity chromatography. It was shown that VrEH1 has an optimum activity at 45 °C and is very thermostable with an inactivation energy of 468 kJ mol(-1). The enzyme has no apparent requirement of metal ions for activity, and its activity was strongly inhibited by 1 mM of Ni(2+), Cu(2+), Fe(2+), or Co(2+). By adding 0.1% Triton X-100, the enzyme activity could be significantly increased up to 340%. VrEH1 shows an unusual ability of enantioconvergent catalysis for the hydrolysis of racemic pNSO, affording (R)-p-nitrophenyl glycol (pNPG). It displays opposite regioselectivity toward (S)-pNSO (83% to Cα) in contrast to (R)-pNSO (87% to Cβ). The K M and k cat of VrEH1 were determined to be 1.4 mM and 0.42 s(-1) for (R)-pNSO and 5.5 mM and 6.2 s(-1) for (S)-pNSO. This thermostable recombinant VrEH1 with enantioconvergency is considered to be a promising biocatalyst for the highly productive preparation of enantiopure vicinal diols and also a good model for understanding the mechanism of EH stereoselectivity.
Total body computed tomography (TB-CT) scan is not mandatory in the diagnostic/staging algorithm of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The aim of this study was to determine the value and prognostic significance of TB-CT scan in early stage CLL patients. Baseline TB-CT scan was performed in 240 Binet stage A CLL patients (179 Rai low- and 61 Rai intermediate-risk) included in a prospective multicenter observational study (clinicaltrial.gov ID:NCT00917549). The cohort included 69 clinical monoclonal B lymphocytosis (cMBLs). Patients were restaged considering only radiological data. Following TB-CT scans, 20% of cases reclassified as radiologic Binet (r-Binet) stage B. r-Binet B patients showed a higher incidence of unfavorable cytogenetic abnormalities (P = 0.027), as well as a shorter PFS (P = 0.001). At multivariate analysis, r-Binet stage [HR = 2.48; P = 0.004] and IGHV mutational status [HR = 3.01; P = 0.002] retained an independent predictive value for PFS. Among 179 Rai low-risk cases, 100 were redefined as r-Rai intermediate-risk based upon TB-CT scan data, showing a higher rate of cases with higher ZAP-70 (P = 0.033) and CD38 expression (P = 0.029) and β2-microglobulin levels (P < 0.0001), as well as a shorter PFS than those with r-Rai low-risk (P = 0.008). r-Rai stage [HR = 2.78; P = 0.046] and IGHV mutational status [HR = 4.25; P = 0.009] retained a significant predictive value for PFS at multivariate analysis. Forty-two percent of cMBL patients were reclassified as r-small lymphocytic lymphomas (r-SLLs) by TB-CT scan. TB-CT scan appears to provide relevant information in early stage CLL related to the potential and the timing of patients to progress towards the more advanced disease stages.
Cardiovascular diseases, especially atherosclerosis, have found to be the dreadful diseases worldwide and therapeutic interventions using plant sources have wide therapeutic value. Vigna unguiculata (VU) leaves have been used as food and therapeutics. Hence, our study was designed to evaluate the hypolipidemic as well as anti-atherogenic potential of VU leaves in normalizing atherogenic gene expression, cholesterol profile, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and antioxidant enzyme system on cholesterol fed rabbit model. For the study New Zealand white rabbits were randomly divided into four groups of six animals each and experimental period was three months; group -i - ND [normal diet (40 g feed)], group-ii- ND (normal diet) +EAVU [ethyl acetate fraction of Vigna unguiculata (150 mg/kg body weight)], group -iii- ND [normal diet ]+ CFD [cholesterol fed diet (cholesterol 1 % of 40 g feed and cholic acid 0.5 % of 40 g feed)] and group-iv - ND [normal diet] +CFD [cholesterol fed diet ]+EAVU [ethyl acetate fraction of Vigna unguiculata (150 mg/kg body weight)]. Atherosclerosis was induced by feeding the rabbit with cholesterol (1 % of 40 g feed) and cholic acid (0.5 % of 40 g feed). Supplementation of EAVU normalized cholesterol profile, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation products like thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS), antioxidant system and important genes of cardiovascular diseases like interleukin-10 (IL 10), paraoxanase-1 (PON I), interleukin-6 (IL 6), and cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox 2) to near normal level as compared with normal diet. The result obtained showed the antioxidant as well as anti-atherogenic potential of Vigna unguiculata leaves in ameliorating cholesterol induced atherosclerosis, and thus it is good task to include VU leaves in daily diet for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases especially atherosclerosis.
A reproducible and highly efficient protocol for genetic transformation mediated by Agrobacterium has been established for greengram (Vigna radiata L. Wilczek). Double cotyledonary node (DCN) explants were inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain LBA 4404 harboring a binary vector pCAMBIA 2301 containing neomycin phosphotransferase (npt II) gene as selectable marker, β-glucuronidase (GUS) as a reporter (uidA) gene and annexin 1 bj gene. Important parameters like optical density of Agrobacterium culture, culture quantity, infection medium, infection and co-cultivation time and acetosyringone concentration were standardized to optimize the transformation frequency. Kanamycin at a concentration of 100 mg/l was used to select transformed cells. Transient and stable GUS expressions were studied in transformed explants and regenerated putative plants, respectively. Transformed shoot were produced on regeneration medium containing 100 mg/l kanamycin and 250 mg/l cefotaxime and rooted on ½ MS medium. Transient and constitutive GUS expression was observed in DCN explants and different tissues of T(0) and T(1) plants. Rooted T(0) and T(1) shoots confirming Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) positive for npt II and annexin 1bj genes were taken to maturity to collect the seeds. Integration of annexin gene into the greengram genome was confirmed by Southern blotting.
Aluminium (Al)-activated citrate secretion plays an important role in Al resistance in a number of plant species, such as rice bean (Vigna umbellata). This study further characterized the regulation of VuMATE1, an aluminium-activated citrate transporter. Al stress induced VuMATE1 expression, followed by the secretion of citrate. Citrate secretion was specific to Al stress, whereas VuMATE1 expression was not, which could be explained by a combined regulation of VuMATE1 expression and Al-specific activation of VuMATE1 protein. Pre-treatment with a protein translation inhibitor suppressed VuMATE1 expression, indicating that de novo biosynthesis of proteins is required for gene expression. Furthermore, post-treatment with a protein translation inhibitor inhibited citrate secretion, indicating that post-transcriptional regulation of VuMATE1 is critical for citrate secretion. Protein kinase and phosphatase inhibitor studies showed that reversible phosphorylation was important not only for transcriptional regulation of VuMATE1 expression but also for post-translational regulation of VuMATE1 protein activity. These results suggest that citrate secretion is dependent on both transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of VuMATE1. Additionally, VuMATE1 promoter-β-glucuronidase fusion lines revealed that VuMATE1 expression was restricted to the root apex and was entirely Al induced, indicating the presence of cis-acting elements regulating root tip-specific and Al-inducible gene expression, which will be an important resource for genetic improvement of plant Al resistance.
In this study, we evaluated the antiobesity effects of Vigna nakashimae (VN) extract and elucidated the underlying mechanisms. VN extract suppressed adipocyte differentiation and significantly attenuated the expression of adipogenic genes in 3T3-L1 cells. It decreased the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) and its target genes in fully differentiated 3T3-L1 cells. Moreover, it enhanced the phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and acetyl CoA carboxylase (ACC), and increased the expression of fatty acid oxidation genes. In high-fat diet (HFD) fed mice, VN extract suppressed HFD-induced increases in body weight, epididymal fat tissue weight, and hepatic lipid levels, and decreased the plasma levels of triacylglycerols, fatty acid, total cholesterol, and inflammatory cytokines. Consistently with in vitro study results, VN extract prevented HFD-induced increases in the expression of PPARγ and its target genes, and restored the decrease in the phosphorylation of AMPK and ACC in epididymal fat and liver tissues. These findings suggest that Vigna nakashimae prevents obesity through suppression of PPARγ expression and activation of AMPK, and that it might be a useful dietary supplement for the prevention of obesity.
This study investigated the subcellular location of mung bean (Vigna radiata) 8S globulin in transient expression systems as well as in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells and different tissues from a transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) line stably expressing this storage globulin. When transiently expressed in protoplasts from both BY-2 cells and Arabidopsis suspension cultured cells, the 8S globulin located to structures that were neither Golgi nor pre-vacuolar compartments (PVCs). Immunogold electron microscopy of the transgenics reveals the 8S globulin-positive structures to be small, spherical, ribosome-covered endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-derived bodies. In BY-2 cells and all vegetative cells, the 8S globulin was present as a pro-form. However, in Arabidopsis embryos, with the onset of endogenous storage protein synthesis, the 8S globulin exited the ER and passed through the PVC to the protein storage vacuole where it was processed to its smaller mature form. These results clearly demonstrated that, when taken out of context and expressed in vegetative cells, the mung bean 8S storage globulin cannot exit the ER, and indicate that natural targeting of storage proteins to the vacuole should be better studied in the maturing seed.
Moth bean ( Vigna aconitifolia (Jacq.) Marechal) is an important grain legume crop grown in rain fed areas of hot desert regions of Thar, India, under scorching sun rays with very little supplementation of water. An SSH cDNA library was generated from leaf tissues of V. aconitifolia var. RMO-40 exposed to an elevated temperature of 42 °C for 5 min to identify early-induced genes. A total of 488 unigenes (114 contigs and 374 singletons) were derived by cluster assembly and sequence alignment of 738 ESTs; out of 206 ESTs (28%) of unknown proteins, 160 ESTs (14%) were found to be novel to moth bean. Only 578 ESTs (78%) showed significant BLASTX similarity (<1 × 10(-6)) in the NCBI non-redundant database. Gene ontology functional classification terms were retrieved for 479 (65%) sequences, and 339 sequences were annotated with 165 EC codes and mapped to 68 different KEGG pathways. Four hundred and fifty-two ESTs were further annotated with InterProScan (IPS), and no IPS was assigned to 153 ESTs. In addition, the expression level of 27 ESTs in response to heat stress was evaluated through semiquantitative RT-PCR assay. Approximately 20 different signaling genes and 16 different transcription factors have been shown to be associated with heat stress in moth bean for the first time.
Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata L. Walp., is one of the most important food and forage legumes in the semi-arid tropics. While most domesticated forms of cowpea are susceptible to the root parasitic weed Striga gesnerioides, several cultivars have been identified that show race-specific resistance. Cowpea cultivar B301 contains the RSG3-301 gene for resistance to S. gesnerioides race SG3, but is susceptible to race SG4z. When challenged by SG3, roots of cultivar B301 develop a strong resistance response characterized by a hypersensitive reaction and cell death at the site of parasite attachment. In contrast, no visible response occurs in B301 roots parasitized by SG4z. Gene expression in the roots of the cowpea cultivar B301 during compatible (susceptible) and incompatible (resistant) interactions with S. gesnerioides races SG4z and SG3, respectively, were investigated at the early (6 days post-inoculation (dpi)) and late (13 dpi) stages of the resistance response using a Nimblegen custom design cowpea microarray. A total of 111 genes were differentially expressed in B301 roots at 6 dpi; this number increased to 2102 genes at 13 dpi. At 13 dpi, a total of 1944 genes were differentially expressed during compatible (susceptible) interactions of B301 with SG4z. Genes and pathways involved in signal transduction, programmed cell death and apoptosis, and defense response to biotic and abiotic stress were differentially expressed in the early resistance response; at the later time point, enrichment was primarily for defense-related gene expression, and genes encoding components of lignifications and secondary wall formation. In compatible interactions (B301-SG4z), multiple defense pathways were repressed, including those involved in lignin biosynthesis and secondary cell wall modifications, while cellular transport processes for nitrogen and sulfur were increased. Distinct changes in global gene expression profiles occur in host roots following successful and unsuccessful attempted parasitism by Striga. Induction of specific defense related genes and pathways defines components of a unique resistance mechanism. Some genes and pathways up-regulated in the host resistance response to SG3 are repressed in the susceptible interactions, suggesting that the parasite is targeting specific components of the host's defense. These results add to our understanding of plant-parasite interactions and the evolution of resistance to parasitic weeds.
Generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in plants is an inevitable consequence of adverse environmental cues and the ability to detoxify deleterious by-products of ROS-mediated oxidation reactions reflect an important defence strategy to combat abiotic stress. Here, we have cloned the eutypine reducing aldehyde reductase gene (VrALR) from Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek roots. We have expressed and purified the VrALR protein and analyzed its enzyme kinetic parameters and catalytic efficiency with three different substrates to confirm its identity. The functional characterization of this enzyme was unravelled through heterologous expression of the gene in Escherichia coli BL21 and an oxidative stress-sensitive Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutant strain, W3O3-1-A. Finally, the endogenous VrALR enzyme activity and the mRNA expression patterns of the VrALR gene in the roots of V. radiata in response to progressive drought stress in vivo was studied to correlate the ROS-detoxifying role of this important enzyme under the influence of progressive drought stress. Our results, for the first time, demonstrate that eutypine reducing VrALR provides varying degree of stress tolerance in bacteria, yeast systems and also plays a promising protective role against oxidative stress in V. radiata roots during gradual water deprivation. The present study provides an unequivocal evidence to understand the crucial role of aldehyde reductase ROS-detoxifying system which is highly essential for developing stress tolerance in economically important crop plants.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) is an important grain and forage legume grown throughout sub-Saharan Africa primarily by subsistence farmers on poor, drought prone soils. Genetic improvement of the crop is being actively pursued and numerous functional genomics studies are underway aimed at characterizing gene controlling key agronomic characteristics for disease and pest resistances. Unfortunately, similar to other legumes, efficient plant transformation technology is a rate-limiting step in analysis of gene function in cowpea. Here we describe an optimized protocol for the rapid generation of transformed hairy roots on ex vitro composite plants of cowpea using Agrobacterium rhizogenes. We further demonstrate the applicability of cowpea composite plants to study gene expression involved in the resistance response of the plant roots to attack by the root parasitic weed, Striga gesnerioides. The utility of the new system and critical parameters of the method are described and discussed herein. Cowpea composite plants offer a rapid alternative to methods requiring stable transformation and whole plant regeneration for studying gene expression in resistance or susceptibility responses to parasitic weeds. Their use can likely be readily adapted to look at the effects of both ectopic gene overexpression as well as gene knockdown of root associated defense responses and to the study of a broader range of root associated physiological and aphysiological processes including root growth and differentiation as well as interactions with other root pests, parasites, and symbionts.
Cyclic-β-glucans (CβG) consist of cyclic homo-polymers of glucose that are present in the periplasmic space of many Gram-negative bacteria. A number of studies have demonstrated their importance for bacterial infection of plant and animal cells. In this study, a mutant of Rhizobium (Sinorhizobium) sp. strain NGR234 (NGR234) was generated in the cyclic glucan synthase (ndvB)-encoding gene. The great majority of CβG produced by wild-type NGR234 are negatively charged and substituted. The ndvB mutation abolished CβG biosynthesis. We found that, in NGR234, a functional ndvB gene is essential for hypo-osmotic adaptation and swimming, attachment to the roots, and efficient infection of Vigna unguiculata and Leucaena leucocephala.
A novel dehydrin gene (VrDhn1) was isolated from an embryo cDNA library of Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek (mungbean) variety VC1973A. The intronless VrDhn1 gene encodes a protein belonging to the Y(2)K-type dehydrin family. VrDhn1 protein accumulated in embryos and cotyledons during seed maturation and disappeared 2 days after seed imbibition (DAI). The expression of VrDhn1 mRNA and accumulation of VrDhn1 protein were at high levels in mature seeds, but neither mRNA nor protein was detected in mungbean vegetative tissues under normal growth conditions. The VrDhn1 mRNA level was extremely high in mature seeds and decreased to ∼30% at 1 DAI, and was not detectable at ~7 DAI. Tissue dehydration, salinity and exogenous ABA markedly induced VrDhn1 transcripts in plants as measured by quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR). VrDhn1 protein was not detected using immunoblots in seedlings under stress treatments. In mature seeds or 1 DAI seedlings, VrDhn1 proteins were immunolocalized in the nucleus and cytoplasm. VrDhn1 exhibited low affinity for non-specific interaction with DNA using electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs), and the exogenous addition of Zn(2+) or Ni(2+) stimulated interaction. The His-tagged VrDhn1 (30.17 kDa) protein showed a molecular mass of 63.1 kDa on gel filtration, suggesting a dimer form. This is the first report showing that a Y(2)K-type VrDhn1 enters the nucleus and interacts with DNA during seed maturation.
The Sinorhizobium fredii HH103 rkp-3 region has been isolated and sequenced. Based on the similarities between the S. fredii HH103 rkpL, rkpM, rkpN, rkpO, rkpP, and rkpQ genes and their corresponding orthologues in Helicobacter pylori, we propose a possible pathway for the biosynthesis of the S. fredii HH103 K-antigen polysaccharide (KPS) repeating unit. Three rkp-3 genes (rkpM, rkpP, and rkpQ) involved in the biosynthesis of the HH103 KPS repeating unit (a derivative of the pseudaminic acid) have been mutated and analyzed. All the rkp-3 mutants failed to produce KPS and their lipopolysaccharide (LPS) profiles were altered. These mutants showed reduced motility and auto-agglutinated when early-stationary cultures were further incubated under static conditions. Glycine max, Vigna unguiculata (determinate nodule-forming legumes), and Cajanus cajan (indeterminate nodules) plants inoculated with mutants in rkpM, rkpQ, or rkpP only formed pseudonodules that did not fix nitrogen and were devoid of bacteria. In contrast, another indeterminate nodule-forming legume, Glycyrrhiza uralensis, was still able to form some nitrogen-fixing nodules with the three S. fredii HH103 rifampicin-resistant rkp-3 mutants tested. Our results suggest that the severe symbiotic impairment of the S. fredii rkp-3 mutants with soybean, V. unguiculata, and C. cajan is mainly due to the LPS alterations rather than to the incapacity to produce KPS.
A MADS box gene AGL20/SOC1 is a main integrator in Arabidopsis flowering pathway whose structure and function are highly conserved in many plant species. A soybean MADS box gene GmGAL1 (Glycine max AGAMOUS Like 1) as a homolog of AGL20/SOC1, was cloned from soybean cultivar Kennong18 and its function was investigated in transgenic Arabidopsis lines. Sequence comparisons showed that the closest homolog gene to GmGAL1 is AGL20/SOC1 in Arabidopsis and VuSOC1 in Vigna unguiculata. We investigated the expression level of GmGAL1 using quantitative real-time PCR, and the result showed that GmGAL1 was regulated by a circadian mechanism and its expression oscillated at a cycle of 24 h. The expression level of GmGAL1 was fluctuated in diverse tissues/organs and developmental stages. Considering its expression can be detected in different tissues throughout the life cycle and its protein localized in cytoplasm in Arabidopsis protoplasm, we proposed that GmGAL1 may be a multifunctional gene in the context of the soybean development. Ectopic expression of GmGAL1 in Arabidopsis enhanced flowering under long-day condition and partially rescued soc1 late flowering type.
A new method for obtaining transgenic cowpea was developed using positive selection based on the Escherichia coli 6-phosphomannose isomerase gene as the selectable marker and mannose as the selective agent. Only transformed cells were capable of utilizing mannose as a carbon source. Cotyledonary node explants from 4-day-old in vitro-germinated seedlings of cultivar Pusa Komal were inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 carrying the vector pNOV2819. Regenerating transformed shoots were selected on medium supplemented with a combination of 20 g/l mannose and 5 g/l sucrose as carbon source. The transformed shoots were rooted on medium devoid of mannose. Transformation efficiency based on PCR analysis of individual putative transformed shoots was 3.6%. Southern blot analysis on five randomly chosen PCR-positive plants confirmed the integration of the pmi transgene. Qualitative reverse transcription (qRT-PCR) analysis demonstrated the expression of pmi in T₀ transgenic plants. Chlorophenol red (CPR) assays confirmed the activity of PMI in transgenic plants, and the gene was transmitted to progeny in a Mendelian fashion. The transformation method presented here for cowpea using mannose selection is efficient and reproducible, and could be used to introduce a desirable gene(s) into cowpea for biotic and abiotic stress tolerance.
A mung bean (Vigna radiata) pectin acetyl esterase (CAA67728) was heterologously expressed in tubers of potato (Solanum tuberosum) under the control of the granule-bound starch synthase promoter or the patatin promoter in order to probe the significance of O-acetylation on cell wall and tissue properties. The recombinant tubers showed no apparent macroscopic phenotype. The enzyme was recovered from transgenic tubers using a high ionic strength buffer and the extract was active against a range of pectic substrates. Partial in vivo de-acetylation of cell wall polysaccharides occurred in the transformants, as shown by a 39% decrease in the degree of acetylation (DA) of tuber cell wall material (CWM). Treatment of CWM using a combination of endo-polygalacturonase and pectin methyl esterase extracted more pectin polymers from the transformed tissue compared to wild type. The largest effect of the pectin acetyl esterase (68% decrease in DA) was seen in the residue from this extraction, suggesting that the enzyme is preferentially active on acetylated pectin that is tightly bound to the cell wall. The effects of acetylation on tuber mechanical properties were investigated by tests of failure under compression and by determination of viscoelastic relaxation spectra. These tests suggested that de-acetylation resulted in a stiffer tuber tissue and a stronger cell wall matrix, as a result of changes to a rapidly relaxing viscoelastic component. These results are discussed in relation to the role of pectin acetylation in primary cell walls and its implications for industrial uses of potato fibres.
Yellow mosaic disease of Vigna mungo caused by Mungbean yellow mosaic India virus (MYMIV) is still a major threat in the crop production. A candidate disease resistance (R) gene, CYR1 that co-segregates with MYMIV-resistant populations of V. mungo has been isolated. CYR1 coded in silico translated protein sequence comprised of 1,176 amino acids with coiled coil structure at the N-terminus, central nucleotide binding site (NBS) and C-terminal leucine-rich repeats (LRR) that belongs to non-TIR-NBS-LRR subfamily of plant R genes. CYR1 transcript was unambiguously expressed during incompatible plant virus interactions. A putative promoter-like sequence present upstream of this candidate gene perhaps regulates its expression. Enhanced transcript level upon MYMIV infection suggests involvement of this candidate gene in conferring resistance against the virus. In silico constructed 3D models of NBS and LRR regions of this candidate protein and MYMIV-coat protein (CP) revealed that CYR1-LRR forms an active pocket and successively interacts with MYMIV-CP during docking, like that of receptor-ligand interaction; indicating a critical role of CYR1 as signalling molecule to protect V. mungo plants from MYMIV. This suggests involvement of CYR1 in recognizing MYMIV-effector molecule thus contributing to incompatible interaction. This study is the first stride to understand molecular mechanism of MYMIV resistance.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata spp unguiculata) is adapted to the drier agro-ecological zones of West Africa where it is a major source of dietary protein and widely used as a fodder crop. Improving the productivity of cowpea can enhance food availability and security in West Africa. Insect predation--predominately from the legume pod borer (Maruca vitrata), flower thrips (Megalurothrips sjostedti) and a complex of pod-sucking bugs (e.g., Clavigralla spp)--is a major yield-limiting factor in West African cowpea production. Dramatic increases in yield are shown when M. vitrata is controlled with insecticides. However, availability, costs, and safety considerations limit pesticides as a viable option for boosting cowpea production. Development of Bt-cowpea through genetic modification (GM) to control the legume pod borer is a promising approach to cowpea improvement. Cowpea expressing the lepidopteran-active Cry1Ab protein from Bacillus thuringiensis is being developed as a first generation Bt-cowpea crop for West Africa. Appropriate stewardship of Bt-cowpea to assure its sustainability under West African conditions is critical to its successful development. A first step in this process is an environmental risk assessment to determine the likelihood and magnitude of adverse effects of the Cry1Ab protein on key environmental protection goals in West Africa. Here we describe the results of an expert panel convened in 2009 to develop the problem formulation phase for Bt-cowpea and to address specific issues around gene flow, non-target arthropods, and insect resistance management.
In the last three decades, a number of attempts have been made to develop reproducible protocols for generating transgenic cowpea that permit the expression of genes of agronomic importance. Pioneer works focused on the development of such systems vis-à-vis an in vitro culture system that would guarantee de novo regeneration of transgenic cowpea arising from cells amenable to one form of gene delivery system or another, but any such system has eluded researchers over the years. Despite this apparent failure, significant progress has been made in generating transgenic cowpea, bringing researchers much nearer to their goal than thirty years ago. Now, various researchers have successfully established transgenic procedures for cowpea with evidence of inherent transgenes of interest, effected by progenies in a Mendelian fashion. New opportunities have thus emerged to optimize existing protocols and devise new strategies to ensure the development of transgenic cowpea with desirable agronomic traits. This review chronicles the important milestones in the last thirty years that have marked the evolution of genetic engineering of cowpea. It also highlights the progress made and describes new strategies that have arisen, culminating in the current status of transgenic technologies for cowpea.
Two different but related sequences that encode Vigna luteola 7S vicilins were isolated and characterized. The sequences differ by two nucleotide substitutions, each of which results in an amino acid replacement. This low level of divergence suggests that a recent gene duplication has occurred. Both variants are expressed in cDNA populations; therefore, neither gene is a pseudogene. Both copies were present in all individuals (72) analyzed using real-time PCR and TaqMan probes. Segregation was not observed. The two sequences are not independent alleles. Vicilin genomic sequences of 11 specimens from six geographic locations were determined. No polymorphic sites were identified in either of the two gene copies. This lack of polymorphism suggests that either a population bottleneck or selection has occurred. The genetic structure, expression patterns, and protein composition of the V. luteola vicilins were compared to those of other legume vicilins.
N-Acyl-homoserine-lactones (AHLs) are bacterial quorum-sensing signaling molecules that regulate population density. Recent evidence demonstrates their roles in plant defense responses and root development. Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), nitric oxide (NO), and cyclic GMP (cGMP) are essential messengers that participate in various plant physiological processes, but how these messengers modulate the plant response to N-acyl-homoserine-lactone signals remains poorly understood. Here, we show that the N-3-oxo-decanoyl-homoserine-lactone (3-O-C10-HL), in contrast to its analog with an unsubstituted branch chain at the C3 position, efficiently stimulated the formation of adventitious roots and the expression of auxin-response genes in explants of mung bean (Vigna radiata) seedlings. This response was mimicked by the exogenous application of auxin, H(2)O(2), NO, or cGMP homologs but suppressed by treatment with scavengers or inhibitors of H(2)O(2), NO, or cGMP metabolism. The 3-O-C10-HL treatment enhanced auxin basipetal transport; this effect could be reversed by treatment with H(2)O(2) or NO scavengers but not by inhibitors of cGMP synthesis. Inhibiting 3-O-C10-HL-induced H(2)O(2) or NO accumulation impaired auxin- or 3-O-C10-HL-induced cGMP synthesis; however, blocking cGMP synthesis did not affect auxin- or 3-O-C10-HL-induced H(2)O(2) or NO generation. Additionally, cGMP partially rescued the inhibitory effect of H(2)O(2) or NO scavengers on 3-O-C10-HL-induced adventitious root development and auxin-response gene expression. These results suggest that 3-O-C10-HL, unlike its analog with an unmodified branch chain at the C3 position, can accelerate auxin-dependent adventitious root formation, possibly via H(2)O(2)- and NO-dependent cGMP signaling in mung bean seedlings.
Viruses can be used as vectors for transient expression of proteins in plants but frequently foreign gene inserts are not maintained stably over time due to recombination events. In this study the hypothesis was that the choice of plant host affects the foreign gene retention level by a Tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV) vector expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP). To accomplish this, a novel virus vector integrity bioassay was developed based on an old concept, whereby RNA transcripts of the TBSV-GFP vector were rub-inoculated onto leaves of test plants, and at 3 days post inoculation (dpi), these leaves were used as inoculum for passage to cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), a local lesion host. Chlorotic lesions at points of virus infection were counted on cowpea at 4dpi and then the leaves were exposed to ultraviolet light to count green fluorescent foci. These tests with seven different plant species covering five families showed that the percentage of green fluorescent lesions varied on the cowpea indicator plants in a host-dependent manner. For instance, the vector was relatively unstable in Nicotiana benthamiana, tomato, bean, and spinach, but compared to those its stability in lettuce was significantly improved (~3-fold). This host-dependent effect suggests that some plants may present a more suitable environment than others to support or maintain optimum levels of virus vector-mediated foreign gene expression.
In the presence of flavonoids, Rhizobium sp. strain NGR234 synthesizes a new lipopolysaccharide (LPS), characterized by a rhamnan O-antigen. The presence of this rhamnose-rich LPS is important for the establishment of competent symbiotic interactions between NGR234 and many species of leguminous plants. Two putative rhamnosyl transferases are encoded in a cluster of genes previously shown to be necessary for the synthesis of the rhamnose-rich LPS. These two genes, wbgA and rgpF, were mutated. The resulting mutant strains synthesized truncated rough LPS species rather than the wild-type rhamnose-rich LPS when grown with flavonoids. Based on the compositions of these purified mutant LPS species, we inferred that RgpF is responsible for adding the first one to three rhamnose residues to the flavonoid-induced LPS, whereas WbgA is necessary for the synthesis of the rest of the rhamnan O-antigen. The NGR234 homologue of lpsB, which, in other bacteria, encodes a glycosyl transferase acting early in synthesis of the core portion of LPS, was identified and also mutated. LpsB was required for all the LPS species produced by NGR234, in the presence or absence of flavonoids. Mutants (i.e., of lpsB and rgpF) that lacked any portion of the rhamnan O-antigen of the induced LPS were severely affected in their symbiotic interaction with Vigna unguiculata, whereas the NGR?wbgA mutant, although having very few rhamnose residues in its LPS, was able to elicit functional nodules.
Genotypic- and silicon (Si)-mediated differences in manganese (Mn) tolerance of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) arise from a combination of symplastic and apoplastic traits. A detailed metabolomic inspection could help to identify functional associations between genotype- and Si-mediated Mn tolerance and metabolism. Two cowpea genotypes differing in Mn tolerance (TVu 91, Mn sensitive; TVu 1987, Mn tolerant) were subjected to differential Mn and Si treatments. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS)-based metabolite profiling of leaf material was performed. Detailed evaluation of the response of metabolites was combined with gene expression and physiological analyses. After 2 d of 50 μM Mn supply TVu 91 expressed toxicity symptoms first in the form of brown spots on the second oldest trifoliate leaves. Silicon treatment suppressed symptom development in TVu 91. Despite higher concentrations of Mn in leaves of TVu 1987 compared with TVu 91, the tolerant genotype did not show symptoms. From sample cluster formation as identified by independent component analysis (ICA) of metabolite profiles it is concluded that genotypic differences accounted for the highest impact on variation in metabolite pools, followed by Mn and Si treatments in one of two experiments. Analysis of individual metabolites corroborated a comparable minor role for Mn and Si treatments in the modulation of individual metabolites. Mapping individual metabolites differing significantly between genotypes onto biosynthetic pathways and gene expression studies on the corresponding pathways suggest that genotypic Mn tolerance is a consequence of differences (i) in the apoplastic binding capacity; (ii) in the capability to maintain a high antioxidative state; and (iii) in the activity of shikimate and phenylpropanoid metabolism.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) is an important crop in arid and semi-arid regions and is a good model for studying drought tolerance. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are known to play critical roles in plant stress responses, but drought-associated miRNAs have not been identified in cowpea. In addition, it is not understood how miRNAs might contribute to different capacities of drought tolerance in different cowpea genotypes. We generated deep sequencing small RNA reads from two cowpea genotypes (CB46, drought-sensitive, and IT93K503-1, drought-tolerant) that grew under well-watered and drought stress conditions. We mapped small RNA reads to cowpea genomic sequences and identified 157 miRNA genes that belong to 89 families. Among 44 drought-associated miRNAs, 30 were upregulated in drought condition and 14 were downregulated. Although miRNA expression was in general consistent in two genotypes, we found that nine miRNAs were predominantly or exclusively expressed in one of the two genotypes and that 11 miRNAs were drought-regulated in only one genotype, but not the other. These results suggest that miRNAs may play important roles in drought tolerance in cowpea and may be a key factor in determining the level of drought tolerance in different cowpea genotypes.
Al-activated organic acid anion efflux from roots is an important Al resistance mechanism in plants. We have conducted homologous cloning and isolated Vigna umbellata multidrug and toxic compound extrusion (VuMATE), a gene encoding a de novo citrate transporter from rice bean. Al treatment up-regulated VuMATE expression in the root apex, but neither in the mature root region nor in the leaf. The degree of up-regulation of VuMATE was both partially Al concentration and time dependent, consistent with the delay in the onset of the Al-induced citrate efflux in rice bean roots. While La(3+) moderately induced VuMATE expression, Cd(2+) and Cu(2+) did not induce the expression. Electrophysiological analysis of Xenopus oocytes expressing VuMATE indicated this transporter can mediate significant anion efflux across the plasma membrane. [(14) C]citrate efflux experiments in oocytes demonstrated that VuMATE is a H(+) -dependent citrate transporter. In addition, expression of VuMATE in transgenic tomato resulted in increased Al resistance, which correlated with an enhanced citrate efflux. Taken together, these findings suggest that VuMATE is a functional homolog of the known citrate transporters in sorghum, barley, maize and Arabidopsis. The similarities and differences of all the known citrate transporters associated with Al stress in the MATE family are also discussed.
Plants are sessile organisms subjected to many environmental adversities. For their survival they must sense and respond to biotic and abiotic stresses efficiently. During this process, protein kinases are essential in the perception of environmental stimuli, triggering signaling cascades. Kinases are among the largest and most important gene families for biotechnological purposes, bringing many challenges to the bioinformaticians due to the combination of conserved domains besides diversified regions. Cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.] is an important legume that is adapted to different agroclimatic conditions, including drought, humidity and a range of temperatures. For this crop, the association of the SuperSAGE method with high-throughput sequencing technology would generate reliable transcriptome profiles with millions of tags counted and statistically analyzed. An approach evaluating biotic and abiotic stresses was carried out generating over 13 million cowpea SuperSAGE tags available from leaves/roots of plants under abiotic (mechanical injury and salinity) or biotic (CABMV, Cowpea aphid born mosaic virus) stresses. The annotation and identification of tags linked by BlastN to previously well described ESTs, allowed the posterior identification of kinases. The annotation efficiency depended on the database used, with the KEGG figuring as a good source for annotated ESTs especially when complemented by an independent Gene Ontology categorization, as well as the Gene Index using selected species. The use of different approaches allowed the identification of 1,350 kinase candidates considering biotic libraries and 2,268 regarding abiotic libraries, based on a combination of both, adequate descriptions and GO terms. Additional searches in kinase specific databases allowed the identification of a relatively low number of additional kinases, uncovering the lack of kinase databases for non-model organisms, especially plants. Concerning the kinase families, a total of 713 potential kinases were classified into 13 families of the CMGC and STE groups. Concerning the differentially expressed kinases, 169 of the 713 potential kinases were identified (p < 0.05), 100 up- and 69 down-regulated when comparing distinct libraries, allowing the generation of a comprehensive panel of the differentially expressed kinases under biotic and abiotic stresses in a non-model plant as cowpea.
Sarcolipin (SLN) inhibits sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA) pumps. To evaluate the physiological significance of SLN in skeletal muscle, we compared muscle contractility and SERCA activity between Sln-null and wild-type mice. SLN protein expression in wild-type mice was abundant in soleus and red gastrocnemius (RG), low in extensor digitorum longus (EDL), and absent from white gastrocnemius (WG). SERCA activity rates were increased in soleus and RG, but not in EDL or WG, from Sln-null muscles, compared with wild type. No differences were seen between wild-type and Sln-null EDL muscles in force-frequency curves or maximum rates of force development (+dF/dt). Maximum relaxation rates (-dF/dt) of EDL were higher in Sln-null than wild type across a range of submaximal stimulation frequencies, but not during a twitch or peak tetanic contraction. For soleus, no differences were seen between wild type and Sln-null in peak tetanic force or +dF/dt; however, force-frequency curves showed that peak force during a twitch and 10-Hz contraction was lower in Sln-null. Changes in the soleus force-frequency curve corresponded with faster rates of force relaxation at nearly all stimulation frequencies in Sln-null compared with wild type. Repeated tetanic stimulation of soleus caused increased (-dF/dt) in wild type, but not in Sln-null. No compensatory responses were detected in analysis of other Ca(2+) regulatory proteins using Western blotting and immunohistochemistry or myosin heavy chain expression using immunofluorescence. These results show that 1) SLN regulates Ca(2+)-ATPase activity thereby regulating contractile kinetics in at least some skeletal muscles, 2) the functional significance of SLN is graded to the endogenous SLN expression level, and 3) SLN inhibitory effects on SERCA function are relieved in response to repeated contractions thus enhancing relaxation rates.
Extreme resistance of Arlington line cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) to Cowpea mosaic virus (CPMV) is under control of a dominant locus designated Cpa. We transiently expressed, using Tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV) vectors and Agrobacterium tumefaciens, in nearly isogenic Cpa/Cpa and cpa/cpa cowpea lines, sequences from RNA1, the larger of two CPMV genomic RNAs. Activation of a Cpa-specific response mapped to the CPMV 24K protease (24KPro). Mutational analysis of the 24KPro gene implicated protease activity, rather than 24KPro structure, in Cpa-mediated recognition of CPMV invasion. A 24KPro with alanine replacing the active site cysteine [24KPro(C-A)], but not wildtype 24KPro, accumulated after agroinfiltration of the corresponding binary vector constructions into Cpa/Cpa cowpea. In cpa/cpa cowpea, both protease versions accumulated, with 24KPro(C-A) in greater abundance. Thus, enzymically active 24KPro was recognized by both cowpea genotypes, but in Cpa/Cpa cowpea the suppression of 24KPro accumulation was very strong, consistent with extreme resistance to CPMV.
Mungbean, Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek is an important pulse crop that is widely cultivated in semi- arid tropics. The crop is attacked by various soil-borne pathogens like Rhizoctonia solani, which causes dry rot disease and seriously affects its productivity. Earlier we characterized the non-expressor of pathogenesis related gene-1(BjNPR1) of mustard, Brassica juncea, the counterpart of AtNPR1 of Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we transformed mungbean with BjNPR1 via Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Because of the recalcitrant nature of mungbean, the effect of some factors like Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains (GV2260 and LBA4404), pH, L: -cysteine and tobacco leaf extract was tested in transformation. The transgenic status of 15 plants was confirmed by PCR using primers for nptII. The independent integration of T-DNA in transgenic plants was analyzed by Southern hybridization with an nptII probe and the expression of BjNPR1 was confirmed by RT-PCR. Some of the T(0) plants were selected for detached leaf anti-fungal bioassay using the fungus Rhizoctonia solani, which showed moderate to high level of resistance depending on the level of expression of BjNPR1. The seedling bioassay of transgenic T(2) plants indicated resistance against dry rot disease caused by R. solani.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis and dysplasia in one or more lineages, produce life-threatening cytopenias and progress to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Growing evidence suggests that targeting epigenetic mechanisms improves MDS/AML pathophysiology. This review provides an understanding of studies investigating novel agents published up to January 2011 aimed at normalizing and monitoring the epigenetic profile of the MDS cancer cell. The authors discuss how non-intensive epigenetic therapy can 're-programme' gene expression patterns of abnormal hematopoiesis in MDS. Recently FDA-approved DNA-methyltransferase inhibitors, 5-azacytidine and 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine or decitabine, represent frontline nonablative treatments, while combinations with histone deacetylase inhibitors show promising synergism in preclinical and Phase I/II trials in tumor suppressor gene re-expression and overall survival. Additional epigenetic mechanisms including non-encoding transcripts with inhibitory posttranscriptional regulatory functions, such as microRNAs, though not fully understood, present novel molecular and clinical implications in these disorders. Alongside current single-agent epigenetic regimens, combination therapies represent potentially effective options for intermediate-2 and high-risk MDS. Methylation profiles and gene mutation predictors provide promising areas of development for monitoring MDS disease progression and outcome, while targeting microRNA dysregulation represents an important therapeutic goal.
Macrophomina phaseolina is an emerging and devastating fungal pathogen that causes significant losses in crop production under high temperatures and drought stress. An increasing number of disease incidence reports highlight the wide prevalence of the pathogen around the world and its contribution toward crop yield suppression. In cowpea [Vigna unguiculata (L) Walp.], limited sources of low-level host resistance have been identified, the genetic basis of which is unknown. In this study we report on the identification of strong sources of host resistance to M. phaseolina and the genetic mapping of putative resistance loci on a cowpea genetic map comprised of gene-derived single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). Nine quantitative trait loci (QTLs), accounting for between 6.1 and 40.0% of the phenotypic variance (R2), were identified using plant mortality data taken over three years in field experiments and disease severity scores taken from two greenhouse experiments. Based on annotated genic SNPs as well as synteny with soybean (Glycine max) and Medicago truncatula, candidate resistance genes were found within mapped QTL intervals. QTL Mac-2 explained the largest percent R2 and was identified in three field and one greenhouse experiments where the QTL peak co-located with a SNP marker derived from a pectin esterase inhibitor encoding gene. Maturity effects on the expression of resistance were indicated by the co-location of Mac-6 and Mac-7 QTLs with maturity-related senescence QTLs Mat-2 and Mat-1, respectively. Homologs of the ELF4 and FLK flowering genes were found in corresponding syntenic soybean regions. Only three Macrophomina resistance QTLs co-located with delayed drought-induced premature senescence QTLs previously mapped in the same population, suggesting that largely different genetic mechanisms mediate cowpea response to drought stress and Macrophomina infection. Effective sources of host resistance were identified in this study. QTL mapping and synteny analysis identified genomic loci harboring resistance factors and revealed candidate genes with potential for further functional genomics analysis.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) is a unique species in its ability to fix atmospheric nitrogen, with early maturity, and relatively good drought resistance. We used 454 sequencing technology for transcriptome sequencing. A total of 150 159 and 142 993 reads produced 5 254 and 6 374 large contigs (≥ 500 bp) with an average length of 833 and 853 for Sunhwa and Jangan, respectively. Functional annotation to known sequences yielded 41.34% and 41.74% unigenes for Jangan and Sunhwa. A higher number of simple sequence repeat (SSR) motifs was identified in Jangan (1 630) compared with that of Sunhwa (1 334). A similar SSR distribution pattern was observed in both varieties. A total of 8 249 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and indels with 2 098 high-confidence candidates were identified in the two mungbean varieties. The average distance between individual SNPs was approximately 860 bp. Our report demonstrates the utility of transcriptomic data for implementing a functional annotation and development of genetic markers. We also provide large resource sequence data for mungbean improvement programs.
Rhizosphere microorganisms possessing phytase activity are considered important for rendering phytate-P available to plants. In the present study, Citrobacter braakii phytase gene (appA) was over-expressed in rhizobacteria possessing plant growth promoting (PGP) traits for increasing their potential as bioinoculants. AppA was cloned under the lac promoter in the broad host-range expression vector pBBR1MCS2. Transformation of the recombinant construct pCBappA resulted in high constitutive phytase activity in all of the eight rhizobacterial strains belonging to genera Pantoea, Citrobacter, Enterobacter, Pseudomonas (two strains), Rhizobium (two strains) and Ensifer that were studied. Transgenic rhizobacterial strains were found to display varying level of phytase activity, ranging from 10 folds to 538 folds higher than the corresponding control strains. Transgenic derivative of Pseudomonas fluorescens CHA0, a well-characterized plant growth promoting rhizobacterium, showed highest expression of phytase (~8 U/ mg) activity in crude extracts. Although all transformants showed high phytase activity, rhizobacteria having ability to secrete organic acid, showed significantly higher release of P from Ca-phytate in buffered minimal media. AppA over-expressing rhizobacteria showed increased P content, dry weight (shoot) or shoot/ root ratio of mung bean (Vigna radiata) plants, to different extents, when grown in semi solid agar (SSA) medium containing Na-phytate or Ca-phytate as the P sources. This is the first report of over-expression of phytase in rhizobacterial strains and its exploitation for plant growth enhancement.
Mungbean (Vigna radiata L. cv. Tainan no. 5) starch branching enzyme I (SBE, EC 2.4.1.18) cDNA, VrsbeI, was cloned, and its expression was characterized. Conserved regions of the family B SBE were used to amplify a full length cDNA of 2208 bp. Phylogeny was analyzed, and the partial 3D structure and functional features were predicted. Catalytic residues were identified in the (α/β)(8)-fold, and a unique loop from F365 to F376 between β3/α3 was located. Gene expression of VrsbeI in seeds during growth showed that the transcript appeared from week 1 and increased substantially at week 3-4. It was cloned into the pET30 vector and expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3) pLysS cells as a soluble recombinant protein. The affinity-purified recombinant VrSBEI exhibited a specific activity of 314.6 U/mg as an active enzyme with 114-fold activity enrichment from the crude extract.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenous, noncoding, short RNAs directly involved in regulating gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. High conservation of miRNAs in plant provides the foundation for identification of new miRNAs in other plant species through homology alignment. Here, previous known plant miRNAs were BLASTed against the Expressed Sequence Tag (EST) and Genomic Survey Sequence (GSS) databases of Vigna unguiculata, and according to a series of filtering criteria, a total of 47 miRNAs belonging to 13 miRNA families were identified, and 30 potential target genes of them were subsequently predicted, most of which seemed to encode transcription factors or enzymes participating in regulation of development, growth, metabolism, and other physiological processes. Overall, our findings lay the foundation for further researches of miRNAs function in Vigna unguiculata.
The locus Rk confers resistance against several species of root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp., RKN) in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Based on histological and reactive oxygen species (ROS) profiles, Rk confers a delayed but strong resistance mechanism without a hypersensitive reaction-mediated cell death process, which allows nematode development but blocks reproduction. Responses to M. incognita infection in roots of resistant genotype CB46 and a susceptible near-isogenic line (null-Rk) were investigated using a soybean Affymetrix GeneChip expression array at 3 and 9 days post-inoculation (dpi). At 9 dpi 552 genes were differentially expressed in incompatible interactions (infected resistant tissue compared with non-infected resistant tissue) and 1,060 genes were differentially expressed in compatible interactions (infected susceptible tissue compared with non-infected susceptible tissue). At 3 dpi the differentially expressed genes were 746 for the incompatible and 623 for the compatible interactions. When expression between infected resistant and susceptible genotypes was compared, 638 and 197 genes were differentially expressed at 9 and 3 dpi, respectively. In comparing the differentially expressed genes in response to nematode infection, a greater number and proportion of genes were down-regulated in the resistant than in the susceptible genotype, whereas more genes were up-regulated in the susceptible than in the resistant genotype. Gene ontology based functional categorization revealed that the typical defense response was partially suppressed in resistant roots, even at 9 dpi, allowing nematode juvenile development. Differences in ROS concentrations, induction of toxins and other defense related genes seem to play a role in this unique resistance mechanism.
In this work, the role of the rkpU and rkpJ genes in the production of the K-antigen polysaccharides (KPS) and in the symbiotic capacity of Sinorhizobium fredii HH103, a broad host-range rhizobial strain able to nodulate soybean and many other legumes, was studied. The rkpJ- and rkpU-encoded products are orthologous to Escherichia coli proteins involved in capsule export. S. fredii HH103 mutant derivatives were contructed in both genes. To our knowledge, this is the first time that the role of rkpU in KPS production has been studied in rhizobia. Both rkpJ and rkpU mutants were unable to produce KPS. The rkpU derivative also showed alterations in its lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Neither KPS production nor rkpJ and rkpU expression was affected by the presence of the flavonoid genistein. Soybean (Glycine max) plants inoculated with the S. fredii HH103 rkpU and rkpJ mutants showed reduced nodulation and clear symptoms of nitrogen starvation. However, neither the rkpJ nor the rkpU mutants were significantly impaired in their symbiotic interaction with cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Thus, we demonstrate for the first time to our knowledge the involvement of the rkpU gene in rhizobial KPS production and also show that the symbiotic relevance of the S. fredii HH103 KPS depends on the specific bacterium-legume interaction.
Using Phaseoleae defensins available in databases, a putative defensin gene was isolated in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) and cloned from genomic cowpea DNA. The putative mature defensin sequence displays the characteristic defensins residues arrangement, secondary and tertiary structures were predicted and splicing analysis was performed. Using RT-PCR, defensin expression and differences in response to biotic stimuli between infected and non infected plants were tested.
We investigated the effects of azuki bean (Vigna angularis) seed coats (ABSC), which contain polyphenols, on the vascular oxidative stress and inflammation associated with hypertension. Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and control normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were divided into 2 groups each. One group was fed 0% ABSC; the other, a 1.0% ABSC-containing diet. Tail systolic blood pressure (SBP) was examined throughout ABSC treatment. At 8 weeks, vascular superoxide (O(2)(-)) production was measured by lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence. mRNA expressions of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase subunits, macrophage chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and its receptor C-C chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) in the aorta were analyzed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Protein expressions of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) were determined by western blotting. Polyphenol-containing ABSC suppressed the elevation of SBP throughout the treatment period. The NADPH-stimulated O(2)(-) level decreased significantly in the aorta of ABSC-treated SHR compared with the level of untreated SHR. The p47phox and Nox4 mRNA expression increased significantly in untreated SHR compared with that in WKY rats. Conversely, the level of p47phox mRNA was significantly lower in ABSC-treated SHR than in untreated SHR. The protein abundance of both iNOS and COX-2 was significantly decreased in the aorta of the ABSC-treated SHR compared with this abundance in untreated SHR. The MCP-1 and CCR2 mRNA expressions increased in untreated SHR, and these levels were significantly lower in ABSC-treated SHR. In conclusion, our results suggested that polyphenol-containing ABSC could attenuate vascular oxidative stress and inflammation during the progression of hypertension, and this may lead to an improvement in hypertension.
In this report a full-length cDNA, SPCP2, which encoded a putative papain-like cysteine protease was isolated from senescent leaves of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas). SPCP2 contained 1101 nucleotides (366 amino acids) in its open reading frame, and exhibited high amino acid sequence identities (ca. 68% to 83%) with plant cysteine proteases, including Actinidia deliciosa, Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica oleracea, Phaseolus vulgaris, Pisum sativa, Vicia faba, Vicia sativa and Vigna mungo. RT-PCR analysis showed that SPCP2 gene expression was enhanced significantly in natural senescent leaves and in dark-, abscisic acid- (ABA-), jasmonic acid- (JA-) and ethephon-induced senescent leaves, but was almost not detected in mature green leaves, stems, and roots. Transgenic Arabidopsis with constitutive SPCP2 expression exhibited earlier floral transition from vegetative to reproductive growth, higher percentage of incompletely developed siliques per plant, reduced average fresh weight and lower germination percentage of seed, and higher salt and drought stress tolerance compared to those of control. Based on these results we conclude that sweet potato papain-like cysteine protease, SPCP2, is a functional senescence-associated gene, and its expression causes altered developmental characteristics and stress responses in transgenic Arabidopsis plants.
Endogenous trypsin inhibitors are synthesized, stored, and secreted by pancreatic acinar cells. It is believed that they play a protective role in the pancreas by inhibiting trypsin within the cell should trypsinogen become prematurely activated. Rodent trypsin inhibitors are highly homologous to human serine protease inhibitor Kazal-type 1 (SPINK1). The mouse has one pancreatic trypsin inhibitor known as SPINK3, and the rat has two trypsin inhibitors commonly known as pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitors I and II (PSTI-I and -II). Rat PSTI-I is a 61-amino acid protein that shares 65% sequence identity with mouse SPINK3. It was recently demonstrated that mice with genetic deletion of the Spink3 gene (Spink3(-/-)) do not survive beyond 15 days and lack normal pancreata because of pancreatic autophagy. We have shown that targeted transgenic expression of the rat Psti1 gene to acinar cells in mice [TgN(Psti1)] protects mice against caerulein-induced pancreatitis. To determine whether the autophagic phenotype and lethality in Spink3(-/-) mice were due to lack of pancreatic trypsin inhibitor, we conducted breeding studies with Spink3(+/-) heterozygous mice and TgN(Psti1) mice. We observed that, whereas Spink3(+/+), Spink3(+/-), and Spink3(-/-)/TgN(Psti1) mice had similar survival rates, no Spink3(-/-) mice survived longer than 1 wk. The level of expression of SPINK3 protein in acini was reduced in heterozygote mice compared with wild-type mice. Furthermore, endogenous trypsin inhibitor capacity was reduced in the pancreas of heterozygote mice compared with wild-type or knockout mice rescued with the rat Psti1 gene. Surprisingly, the lesser amount of SPINK3 present in the pancreata of heterozygote mice did not predispose animals to increased susceptibility to caerulein-induced acute pancreatitis. We propose that a threshold level of expression is sufficient to protect against pancreatitis.
Defensin, thionin and lipid transfer protein (LTP) gene families, which antimicrobial activity has an attractive use in protein engineering and transgenic production of agronomical important plants, have been here functionally reviewed. Also, a transcriptional overview of a set of plant SuperSAGE libraries and analysis looking for 26 bp tags possibly annotated for those families is presented. Tags differentially expressed (p = 0.05) or constitutively transcribed were identified from leaves or roots SuperSAGE libraries from important Brazilian plant species [cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.), soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) and modern sugarcane hybrids (Saccharum spp.)] submitted to abiotic [salt (100 mM NaCl) or drought] or biotic stresses [fungus inoculation (Phakopsora pachyrhizi; Asiatic Soyben Rust phytopathogen)]. The diverse transcriptional patterns observed, probably related to the variable range of targets and functions involved, could be the first step to unravel the antimicrobial peptide world and the plant stress response relationship. Moreover, SuperSAGE opens the opportunity to find some SNPs or even rare transcript that could be important on plant stress resistance mechanisms. Putative defensin or LTP identified by SuperSAGE following a specific plant treatment or physiological condition could be useful for future use in genetic improvement of plants.
Glutathione (GSH) is an abundant metabolite and a major antioxidant in plant cells. However, in the Leguminosae, homoglutathione (hGSH) may replace glutathione (GSH) partially or completely. To date, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) has been considered a non-hGSH-producing species, and no hGSHS cDNA has been isolated. Here we report on the cloning of a full-length cDNA coding for a hGSHS (EC 6.3.2.23) and the cloning of a partial cDNA coding for a putative glutathione synthetase (GSHS; EC 6.3.2.3) in cowpea leaf extracts. These cDNAs possess, respectively, the leucine/proline hGSHS signature and the alanine/alanine GSHS signature at the 3' end. Expression analysis showed a significant up-regulation of hGSHS during progressive drought stress that could be directly related to the drought tolerance of the cowpea cultivar used, while GSHS was mainly constitutively expressed. Nevertheless, quantification of low-molecular-weight thiols confirmed the previous findings that cowpea is essentially a GSH producing plant, as no hGSH was detected in the leaves. These findings raise new questions regarding the function, activity and substrate specificity of the cloned hGSHS cDNA. These questions are discussed.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) alternative oxidase is encoded by a small multigene family (Aox1, 2a and 2b) that is orthologous to the soybean Aox family. Like most of the identified Aox genes in plants, VuAox1 and VuAox2 consist of 4 exons interrupted by 3 introns. Alignment of the orthologous Aox genes revealed high identity of exons and intron variability, which is more prevalent in Aox1. In order to determine Aox gene expression in V. unguiculata, a steady-state analysis of transcripts involved in seed development (flowers, pods and dry seeds) and germination (soaked seeds) was performed and systemic co-expression of VuAox1 and VuAox2b was observed during germination. The analysis of Aox transcripts in leaves from seedlings under different stress conditions (cold, PEG, salicylate and H2O2 revealed stress-induced co-expression of both VuAox genes. Transcripts of VuAox2a and 2b were detected in all control seedlings, which was not the case for VuAox1 mRNA. Estimation of the primary transcript lengths of V. unguiculata and soybean Aox genes showed an intron length reduction for VuAox1 and 2b, suggesting that the two genes have converged in transcribed sequence length. Indeed, a bioinformatics analysis of VuAox1 and 2b promoters revealed a conserved region related to a cis-element that is responsive to oxidative stress. Taken together, the data provide evidence for co-expression of Aox1 and Aox2b in response to stress and also during the early phase of seed germination. The dual nature of VuAox2b expression (constitutive and induced) suggests that the constitutive Aox2b gene of V. unguiculata has acquired inducible regulatory elements.
The structure and function of untranslated mRNA leader sequences and their role in controlling gene expression remains poorly understood. Previous research has suggested that the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) of the Vigna radiata aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase synthase (VR-ACS1) gene may function as a translational enhancer in plants. To test such hypothesis we compared the translation enhancing properties of three different 5'UTRs; those from the VR-ACS1, the chlorophyll a/b binding gene from petunia (Cab22L; a known translational enhancer) and the Vigna radiata pectinacetylesterase gene (PAE; used as control). Identical constructs in which the coding region of the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene was fused to each of the three 5'UTRs and placed under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter were prepared. Transient expression assays in tobacco cell cultures and mung bean leaves showed that the VR-ACS1 and Cab22L 5'UTRs directed higher levels of GUS activity than the PAE 5'UTR. Analysis of transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings, as well as different tissues from mature plants, confirmed that while transcript levels were equivalent for all constructs, the 5'UTRs from the VR-ACS1 and Cab22L genes can increase GUS activity twofold to fivefold compared to the PAE 5'UTR, therefore confirming the translational enhancing properties of the VR-ACS1 5'UTR.
The epitope presentation system for ectodomain of M2-protein of influenza A virus (M2e) based on Cowpea Mosaic Virus (CPMV) was constructed for expression in plants Vigna unguiculata. CPMV is widely used as a vector for production of immunogenic chimeric virus particles (CVPs) bearing epitopes of different infectious human and animal pathogens. To produce chimeric CPMV virus particles in plants, two binary vectors were constructed bearing modified gene coding for S-coat protein of CPMV with insertions of M2e epitopes of human influenza and bird influenza viruses. Antigenic and immunogenic properties of CVPs obtained were investigated in mice immunization experiments and it was shown that they can induce anti-M2e IgG production and partial protection mice against challenge with low doses of flu virus. However, low infectivity and immunogenicity of CPMV chimeric particles indicate the need for further optimization of plant virus-based systems for M2e-epitopes presentation to use plants as a possible source of flu vaccines.
Plant aspartic proteases are of recent origin with their physiological significance in crucial processes emerging. Reports on the significance of aspartic protease inhibitors and their endogenous proteases in seeds of plants are scanty. This paper reports the purification of an aspartic protease inhibitor from the seeds of Vigna radiata, its control of the endogenous aspartic protease and their subsequent role in the early germination events. The role of the aspartic protease inhibitor and the enzyme in initial stages of germination of V. radiata has been tracked by differential timed expression and germination assays. The expression pattern revealed maximum expression of the inhibitor in the dormant seeds while the enzyme was predominant in the germinating seeds. Their expression patterns and interactions indicate their significance in initiation of germination. The expression of other classes of proteases was monitored during germination and a model predicting the events occurring during proteolysis of the storage protein in germination is hypothesized. The inhibitor was a linear, hydrophobic, pH stable and thermostable peptide with molecular weight of 1660 Da. The purified inhibitor showed a pI of 4.36 with the sequence as AEIYN KDGNK LDLYG. The inhibitor was found to be stable in a broad range of pH from 2 to 10 with an optimum of 3.0. The half-life of VrAPI at 100 degrees C was 30 min whereas the maximum activity was observed at 37 degrees C. The initial kinetic analysis of the inhibitor against the endogenous protease showed an IC(50) value of 11 nM while the value of the inhibition rate constant K(i) was 34 x 10(-9)M.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are commonly found in plants as natural by-products of the metabolism but their production is greatly enhanced under abiotic stresses. Particular metabolites and enzymes belonging to the ascorbate-glutathione cycle are able to scavenge these deleterious molecules and modulate the cellular redox-status. In the March issue of Journal of Plant Physiology, we have shown that drought stress induces a raise in glutathione reductase (GR) activity and gene expression that could be related to the intensity of the drought treatment and the drought susceptibility of the bean cultivar (cowpea and/or common bean). In the present addendum we show new data on GR specific activity during progressive drought stress and recovery of the drought-susceptible bean cultivar which can be related to the previously found dual-targeted GR gene expression. Furthermore, since in leguminous plants homoglutathione (hGSH) is generally the most abundant low molecular weight thiol form, we discuss on the occurrence of a (homo)glutathione reductase activity in beans.
Cultured cells of Sinorhizobium sp. NGR234 produce an abundance of capsular polysaccharides, or K antigens; however, cells that are cultured in the presence of apigenin, a nod gene inducer, exhibited a significant reduction in K-antigen production. The flavonoid-induced modulation in capsule production appeared to be related to the phase-shift changes associated with bacteroid differentiation. Therefore, the polysaccharides were extracted from Sinorhizobium sp. NGR234 bacteroids recovered from Vigna unguiculata cv Red Caloona root nodules, and subsequent analyses showed that the bacteroid extracts were virtually devoid of K-antigen. Polysaccharide extracts from two nodulation mutants cultured in the presence of apigenin were then analyzed, and the results showed that the flavonoid-inducible decrease in K-antigen production is y4gM- and nodD1-dependent.
We investigated the possibility of introducing exogenous T cell receptor (TCR) genes into T cells by lentiviral transduction, without prior stimulation of endogenous TCR with anti-CD3. TCR transfer is used to impose tumor antigen specificity on recipient T cells, but sustained activation required for retroviral transduction may affect the clinical efficacy of engineered T cells. Cytokine stimulation makes T cells susceptible to lentiviral transduction in the absence of TCR triggering, but this advantage has never been exploited for TCR transfer. Autoimmune diseases are a source of high-affinity TCRs specific for self/tumor antigens. We selected, from a patient with vitiligo, a Mart1-specific TCR based on intrinsic interchain pairing properties and functional avidity. After lentiviral transduction of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, preferential pairing of exogenous alpha and beta chains was observed, together with effective recognition of Mart1(+) melanoma cells. We tested transduction efficiency on various T cell subsets prestimulated with interleukin (IL)-2, IL-7, IL-15, and IL-21 (alone or in combination). Both naive and unfractionated CD8(+) T cells could be transduced without requiring endogenous TCR triggering. IL-7 plus IL-15 was the most powerful combination, allowing high levels of transgene expression without inducing T cell differentiation (34 +/- 5% Mart1-TCR(+) cells in naive CD8(+) and 16 +/- 6% in unfractionated CD8(+)). Cytokine-prestimulated, Mart1-redirected naive and unfractionated CD8(+) cells expanded better than CD3-CD28-prestimulated counterparts in response to both peptide-pulsed antigen-presenting cells and Mart1(+) melanoma cells. This strategy allows the generation of tumor-specific T cells encompassing truly naive T cells, endowed with an intact proliferative potential and a preserved differentiation stage.
Many microRNAs (miRNAs), posttranscriptional regulators of numerous cellular processes and developmental events, are downregulated in tumors. However, their role in tumorigenesis remains largely unknown. In this work, we examined the role of the muscle-specific miRNAs miR-1 and miR-206 in human rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS), a soft tissue sarcoma thought to arise from skeletal muscle progenitors. We have shown that miR-1 was barely detectable in primary RMS of both the embryonal and alveolar subtypes and that both miR-1 and miR-206 failed to be induced in RMS cell lines upon serum deprivation. Moreover, reexpression of miR-206 in RMS cells promoted myogenic differentiation and blocked tumor growth in xenografted mice by switching the global mRNA expression profile to one that resembled mature muscle. Finally, we showed that the product of the MET proto-oncogene, the Met tyrosine-kinase receptor, which is overexpressed in RMS and has been implicated in RMS pathogenesis, was downregulated in murine satellite cells by miR-206 at the onset of normal myogenesis. Thus, failure of posttranscriptional modulation may underlie Met overexpression in RMS and other types of cancer. We propose that tissue-specific miRNAs such as miR-1 and miR-206, given their ability to modulate hundreds of transcripts and to act as nontoxic differentiating agents, may override the genomic heterogeneity of solid tumors and ultimately hold greater therapeutic potential than single gene-directed drugs.
PhyR is an unusual type of response regulator consisting of a receiver domain and an extracytoplasmic function (ECF) sigma factor-like domain. It was recently described as a master regulator of general stress response in Methylobacterium extorquens. Orthologues of this regulator are present in essentially all free-living Alphaproteobacteria. In most of them, phyR is genetically closely linked to a gene encoding an ECF sigma factor. Here, we investigate the role of these two regulators in the soybean symbiont Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110. Using deletion mutants and phenotypic assays, we showed that PhyR and the ECF sigma factor sigma(EcfG) are involved in heat shock and desiccation resistance upon carbon starvation. Both mutants had symbiotic defects on the plant hosts Glycine max (soybean) and Vigna radiata (mungbean). They induced fewer nodules than the wild type and these nodules were smaller, less pigmented, and their specific nitrogenase activity was drastically reduced 2 or 3 weeks after inoculation. Four weeks after infection, soybean nodule development caught up to a large extent whereas most mungbean nodules remained defective even 5 weeks after infection. Remarkably, both mutants triggered aberrant nodules on the different host plants with ectopically emerging roots. Microarray analysis revealed that PhyR and sigma(EcfG) control congruent regulons suggesting both regulators are part of the same signalling cascade. This finding was further substantiated by in vitro protein-protein interaction studies which are in line with a partner-switching mechanism controlling gene regulation triggered by phosphorylation of PhyR. The large number of genes of unknown function present in the PhyR/sigma(EcfG) regulon and the conspicuous symbiotic phenotype suggest that these regulators are involved in the Bradyrhizobium-legume interaction via yet undisclosed mechanisms.
Sinorhizobium fredii HH103 produces cyclic beta glucans (CG) composed of 18 to 24 glucose residues without or with 1-phosphoglycerol as the only substituent. The S. fredii HH103-Rifr cgs gene (formerly known as ndvB) was sequenced and mutated with the lacZ-gentamicin resistance cassette. Mutant SVQ562 did not produce CG, was immobile, and grew more slowly in the hypoosmotic GYM medium, but its survival in distilled water was equal to that of HH103-Rifr. Lipopolysaccharides and K-antigen polysaccharides produced by SVQ562 were not apparently altered. SVQ562 overproduced exopolysaccharides (EPS) and its exoA gene was transcribed at higher levels than in HH103-Rifr. In GYM medium, the EPS produced by SVQ562 was of higher molecular weight and carried higher levels of substituents than that produced by HH103-Rifr. The expression of the SVQ562 cgsColon, two colonslacZ fusion was influenced by the pH and the osmolarity of the growth medium. The S. fredii cgs mutants SVQ561 (carrying cgs::Omega) and SVQ562 only formed pseudonodules on Glycine max (determinate nodules) and on Glycyrrhiza uralensis (indeterminate nodules). Although nodulation factors were detected in SVQ561 cultures, none of the cgs mutants induced any macroscopic response in Vigna unguiculata roots. Thus, the nodulation process induced by S. fredii cgs mutants is aborted at earlier stages in V. unguiculata than in Glycine max.
In the present study attempts have been made to characterize urease expression in slow growing Bradyrhizobium strains TAL442 and MO5 which are endosymbionts of green gram (Vigna radiata (L.)Wilczek). It was found that urease activity in vegetative cells of both the strains was inducible unlike their fast growing counterparts. Mode of regulation in TAL442 was governed by presence of ammonia. Urease expression was also detectable in bacteroids of both the strains which was not influenced by presence of external nickel chloride in high concentration, a situation detrimental to the vegetative cells.
Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp., is an important warm-season legume grown primarily in the semi-arid tropics. The majority of cowpea is grown by subsistence farmers in West and Central sub-Saharan Africa, where its grain and leaves are valued as human food and its stover is used for animal forage. Like all crop plants, cowpea is subject to yield losses resulting from a variety of biotic and abiotic stresses. Among the important biotic constraints to cowpea production is parasitism by the root hemiparasitic weeds Striga gesnerioides (Willd.) [witchweed] and Alectra vogelii (Benth.). At least seven races of S. gesnerioides have been identified within the cowpea-growing regions of West Africa, based on host differential response and genetic diversity analysis. Several race-specific resistance genes have been identified and located to one of two linkage groups (LG1 and LG6) of the current cowpea genetic map. Molecular markers associated with race-specific resistance genes have been identified, and several sequence-confirmed amplified regions (SCARs) have been developed for use in marker-assisted selection and breeding strategies for rapid cowpea improvement. The mechanism of race-specific resistance in the cowpea-Striga interaction has also been examined, with several genes involved in phytohormone and general disease resistance signaling transduction observed to be differentially expressed in resistant and susceptible phenotypes. Results suggest that PR5 expression may be a useful marker of Striga infection, and that salicylic acid signaling appears to play a role in the cowpea-Striga interaction.
Full-length starch branching enzyme II (SBE, EC 2.4.1.18) cDNA from mungbean ( Vigna radiata L. cv. Tainan no. 5), VrsbeII, was cloned, characterized, and expressed as an active enzyme in Escherichia coli . Gene-specific primers first amplified an internal cDNA by reverse transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), followed by obtaining 5' and 3' fragments by RT-PCR and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). VrsbeII possesses a complete open reading frame (ORF) of 2571 bp, and the deduced polypeptide includes the common catalytic (beta/alpha)(8)-barrel domain and conserved regions of the alpha-amylase family. Phylogenetic analysis classified VrsbeII into SBE family A. Its partial 3D structure and functional features were predicted. VrsbeII has a shorter N-terminal among SBEs; however, two 6 bp (CCAGTT) direct repeat sequences (DRS) were found. A 24 bp shortened VrsbeII at the 3' end, skipping one DRS, was ligated into pET21b vector and expressed as His(6)-rVrSBEII in E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells. The optimal expression condition for rVrSBEII was evaluated and detected by Western blot with a molecular size of 108 kDa and activity of 6.4 U/mg.
Plant growth and productivity are adversely affected by various abiotic and biotic stress factors. Despite the wealth of information on abiotic stress and stress tolerance in plants, many aspects still remain unclear. Prosopis juliflora is a hardy plant reported to be tolerant to drought, salinity, extremes of soil pH, and heavy metal stress. In this paper, we report the isolation and characterization of the complementary DNA clone for an atypical late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) protein (Pj LEA3) and its putative promoter sequence from P. juliflora. Unlike typical LEA proteins, rich in glycine, Pj LEA3 has alanine as the most abundant amino acid followed by serine and shows an average negative hydropathy. Pj LEA3 is significantly different from other LEA proteins in the NCBI database and shows high similarity to indole-3 acetic-acid-induced protein ARG2 from Vigna radiata. Northern analysis for Pj LEA3 in P. juliflora leaves under 90 mM H2O2 stress revealed up-regulation of transcript at 24 and 48 h. A 1.5-kb fragment upstream the 5' UTR of this gene (putative promoter) was isolated and analyzed in silico. The possible reasons for changes in gene expression during stress in relation to the host plant's stress tolerance mechanisms are discussed.
The objective of this study was to examine the role of root carbohydrate levels and metabolism in the waterlogging tolerance of contrasting mung bean genotypes. An experiment was conducted with two cultivated mung bean (Vigna radiata) genotypes viz., T44 (tolerant) and Pusa Baisakhi (PB) (susceptible), and a wild Vigna species Vigna luteola under pot-culture to study the physiological and molecular mechanism of waterlogging tolerance. Waterlogging resulted in decrease in relative water content (RWC), membrane stability index (MSI) in root and leaf tissues, and chlorophyll (Chl) content in leaves, while the Chl a/b ratio increased. Waterlogging-induced decline in RWC, MSI, Chl and increase in Chl a/b ratio was greater in PB than V. luteola and T44. Waterlogging caused decline in total and non-reducing sugars in all the genotypes and reducing sugars in PB, while the content of reducing sugar increased in V. luteola and T44. The pattern of variation in reducing sugar content in the 3 genotypes was parallel to sucrose synthase (SS) activity. V. luteola and T44 also showed fewer declines in total and non-reducing sugars and greater increase in reducing sugar and SS activity than PB. Activity of alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) increased up to 8d of waterlogging in V. luteola and T44, while in PB a marginal increase was observed only up to 4d of treatment. Gene expression studies done by RT-PCR in 24h waterlogged plants showed enhanced expression of ADH and SS in the roots of V. luteola and T44, while in PB there was no change in expression level in control or treated plants. PCR band products were cloned and sequenced, and partial cDNAs of 531, 626, and 667; 702, 736, and 744bp of SS and ADH, respectively were obtained. The partial cDNA sequences of cloned SS genes showed 93-100 homologies among different genotypes and with D10266, while in case of ADH the similarity was in the range of 97-100% amongst each other and with Z23170. The results suggest that the availability of sufficient sugar reserve in the roots, activity of SS to provide reducing sugars for glycolytic activity and ADH for the recycling of NADH, and for the continuation of glycolysis, could be one of the important mechanisms of waterlogging tolerance of V. radiata genotype T44 and wild species V. luteola. This was reflected in better RWC and Chl content in leaves, and membrane stability of leaf and root tissue in V. luteola and T44.
Cowpea is one of the important grain legumes. Storage pests, Callosobruchus maculatus and C. chinensis cause severe damage to the cowpea seeds during storage. We employ a highly efficient Agrobacterium-mediated cowpea transformation method for introduction of the bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) alpha-amylase inhibitor-1 (alphaAI-1) gene into a commercially important Indian cowpea cultivar, Pusa Komal and generated fertile transgenic plants. The use of constitutive expression of additional vir genes in resident pSB1 vector in Agrobacterium strain LBA4404, thiol compounds during cocultivation and a geneticin based selection system resulted in twofold increase in stable transformation frequency. Expression of alphaAI-1 gene under bean phytohemagglutinin promoter results in accumulation of alphaAI-1 in transgenic seeds. The transgenic protein was active as an inhibitor of porcine alpha-amylase in vitro. Transgenic cowpeas expressing alphaAI-1 strongly inhibited the development of C. maculatus and C. chinensis in insect bioassays.
By hypergravity treatment, the percentage of cells with transverse microtubules was decreased, while that with longitudinal microtubules was increased in azuki bean (Vigna angularis) epicotyls. The expression of genes encoding gamma-tubulin complex (VaTUG and VaGCP3) was increased transiently in response to changes in the gravitational conditions. Lanthanum and gadolinium ions, potential blockers of mechanosensitive calcium ion-permeable channels (mechanoreceptors), nullified reorientation of microtubules as well as up-regulation of expression of VaTUG and VaGCP3 by hypergravity. These results suggest that mechanoreceptors may perceive the gravity signal, which leads to a transient increase in the transcript levels of gamma-tubulin complex genes and reorientation of cortical microtubules.
We describe a novel system of exploiting the biolistic process to generate stable transgenic cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) plants. The system is based on combining the use of the herbicide imazapyr to select transformed meristematic cells after physical introduction of the mutated ahas gene (coding for a mutated acetohydroxyacid synthase, under control of the ahas 5' regulatory sequence) and a simple tissue culture protocol. The gus gene (under control of the act2 promoter) was used as a reporter gene. The transformation frequency (defined as the total number of putative transgenic plants divided by the total number of embryonic axes bombarded) was 0.90%. Southern analyses showed the presence of both ahas and gus expression cassettes in all primary transgenic plants, and demonstrated one to three integrated copies of the transgenes into the genome. The progenies (first and second generations) of all self-fertilized transgenic lines revealed the presence of the transgenes (gus and ahas) co-segregated in a Mendelian fashion. Western blot analysis revealed that the GUS protein expressed in the transgenic plants had the same mass and isoelectric point as the bacterial native protein. This is the first report of biolistic-mediated cowpea transformation in which fertile transgenic plants transferred the foreign genes to next generations following Mendelian laws.
A full-length cDNA denominated PvP5CS for Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS), an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of proline, was cloned from common bean using a candidate gene approach. PvP5CS contains an open reading frame encoding a 716 amino acid polypeptide. Sequence analysis showed that PvP5CS shares 95.1% homology in nucleotide sequence and 93.2% identity in amino acid sequence with the mothbean (Vigna aconitifolia) P5CS. The expression patterns of PvP5CS in common bean treated with drought, cold (4 degrees C), and salt (200 mM NaCl) stresses were examined using real-time quantitative PCR. These abiotic stresses caused significant up-regulation of the expression of PvP5CS in leaves. The PvP5CS mRNA transcript increased to 2.5 times the control level after 4d drought stress. A rapid up-regulation of PvP5CS, to about 16.3 times the control at 2h post-treatment was observed under salt stress. A significant increase in PvP5CS expression (11.7-fold) was detected after 2h of cold stress. The peaks of proline accumulation appeared at 8d for drought, 24h for cold and 9h for salt stress, somewhat later than the peaks of PvP5CS expression. These results suggest that PvP5CS was a stress-inducible gene regulating the accumulation of proline in plants subjected to stress. Finally, subcellular localization assays showed that the PvP5CS protein was present in the nucleus and at the plasmalemma.
Patatin-like genes have recently been cloned from several plant species and found to be involved in stress responses and development. In previous work, we have shown that a patatin-like gene encoding a galactolipid acyl hydrolase (EC 3.1.1.26) was stimulated by drought in the leaves of the tropical legume, Vigna unguiculata L. Walp. The aim of the present work was to study the expression of patatin-like genes in Arabidopsis thaliana under water deficit. Expression of six genes was studied by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction in leaves of plants submitted to progressive drought stress induced by withholding water and also in different plant organs. Three genes, designated AtPAT IIA, AtPAT IVC and AtPAT IIIA, were shown to be upregulated by water deficit but with different kinetics, while the other patatin-like genes were either constitutive or not expressed in leaves. The accumulation of transcripts of AtPAT IIA in the early stages of the drought treatment was coordinated with the upregulation of lipoxygenase and allene oxide synthase genes. AtPAT IIA expression was also induced by wounding and methyl jasmonate treatments. The in vitro lipolytic activity toward monogalactosyldiacylglycerol, digalactosyldiacylglycerol, phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylglycerol was confirmed by producing the recombinant protein ATPAT IIA in insect cells. The analysis of free fatty acid pools in drought-stressed leaves shows an increase in the relative amounts of trans-3-hexadecenoic acid at the beginning of the treatment followed by a progressive accumulation of linoleic and linolenic acids. The possible roles of AtPAT IIA in lipid signaling and membrane degradation under water deficit are discussed.
Root-knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.) are sedentary endoparasites with a broad host range which includes economically important crop species. Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) is an important food and fodder legume grown in many regions where root-knot nematodes are a major problem in production fields. Several sources of resistance to root-knot nematode have been identified in cowpea, including the widely used Rk gene. As part of a study to elucidate the mechanism of Rk-mediated resistance, the histological response to avirulent M. incognita feeding of a resistant cowpea cultivar CB46 was compared with a susceptible near-isogenic line (in CB46 background). Most root-knot nematode resistance mechanisms in host plants that have been examined induced a hypersensitive response (HR). However, there was no typical HR in resistant cowpea roots and nematodes were able to develop normal feeding sites similar to those in susceptible roots up to 9-14 d post inoculation (dpi). From 14-21 dpi giant cell deterioration was observed and the female nematodes showed arrested development and deterioration. Nematodes failed to reach maturity and did not initiate egg laying in resistant roots. These results confirmed that the induction of resistance is relatively late in this system. Typically in pathogen resistance HR is closely associated with an oxidative burst (OB) in infected tissue. The level of reactive oxygen species release in both compatible and incompatible reactions during early and late stages of infection was also quantified. Following a basal OB during early infection in both susceptible and resistant roots, which was also observed in mechanically wounded root tissues, no significant OB was detected up to 14 dpi, a profile consistent with the histological observations of a delayed resistance response. These results will be useful to design gene expression experiments to dissect Rk-mediated resistance at the molecular level.
Cowpea, Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp., is one of the most important food and forage legumes in the semi-arid tropics because of its drought tolerance and ability to grow on poor quality soils. Approximately 80% of cowpea production takes place in the dry savannahs of tropical West and Central Africa, mostly by poor subsistence farmers. Despite its economic and social importance in the developing world, cowpea remains to a large extent an underexploited crop. Among the major goals of cowpea breeding and improvement programs is the stacking of desirable agronomic traits, such as disease and pest resistance and response to abiotic stresses. Implementation of marker-assisted selection and breeding programs is severely limited by a paucity of trait-linked markers and a general lack of information on gene structure and organization. With a nuclear genome size estimated at ~620 Mb, the cowpea genome is an ideal target for reduced representation sequencing. We report here the sequencing and analysis of the gene-rich, hypomethylated portion of the cowpea genome selectively cloned by methylation filtration (MF) technology. Over 250,000 gene-space sequence reads (GSRs) with an average length of 610 bp were generated, yielding ~160 Mb of sequence information. The GSRs were assembled, annotated by BLAST homology searches of four public protein annotation databases and four plant proteomes (A. thaliana, M. truncatula, O. sativa, and P. trichocarpa), and analyzed using various domain and gene modeling tools. A total of 41,260 GSR assemblies and singletons were annotated, of which 19,786 have unique GenBank accession numbers. Within the GSR dataset, 29% of the sequences were annotated using the Arabidopsis Gene Ontology (GO) with the largest categories of assigned function being catalytic activity and metabolic processes, groups that include the majority of cellular enzymes and components of amino acid, carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. A total of 5,888 GSRs had homology to genes encoding transcription factors (TFs) and transcription associated factors (TAFs) representing about 5% of the total annotated sequences in the dataset. Sixty-two (62) of the 64 well-characterized plant transcription factor (TF) gene families are represented in the cowpea GSRs, and these families are of similar size and phylogenetic organization to those characterized in other plants. The cowpea GSRs also provides a rich source of genes involved in photoperiodic control, symbiosis, and defense-related responses. Comparisons to available databases revealed that about 74% of cowpea ESTs and 70% of all legume ESTs were represented in the GSR dataset. As approximately 12% of all GSRs contain an identifiable simple-sequence repeat, the dataset is a powerful resource for the design of microsatellite markers. The availability of extensive publicly available genomic data for cowpea, a non-model legume with significant importance in the developing world, represents a significant step forward in legume research. Not only does the gene space sequence enable the detailed analysis of gene structure, gene family organization and phylogenetic relationships within cowpea, but it also facilitates the characterization of syntenic relationships with other cultivated and model legumes, and will contribute to determining patterns of chromosomal evolution in the Leguminosae. The micro and macrosyntenic relationships detected between cowpea and other cultivated and model legumes should simplify the identification of informative markers for marker-assisted trait selection and map-based gene isolation necessary for cowpea improvement.
Patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia whose cells express CD38 and ZAP-70 and utilize unmutated Ig VH region genes have a very poor prognosis. We studied whether cells expressing CD38 and ZAP-70 are more susceptible to stimulation through B-cell receptors than are cells that do not express CD38 and ZAP-70. CD38-positive and CD38-negative leukemic cells were separated from single cases and compared for their response to B-cell receptor cross-linking and ZAP-70 expression. Cohort studies were also carried out by measuring the apoptotic response to surface immunoglobulin M (IgM) cross-linking in 82 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and the protein tyrosine phosphorylation induced by surface IgM in 21 patients. CD38-positive cells, isolated from cases of chronic lymphocytic leukemia classified as CD38-positive or CD38-negative, expressed more ZAP-70 than the corresponding CD38-negative cells, exhibited more robust protein tyrosine phosphorylation and had a greater tendency to apoptosis upon B-cell receptor cross-linking. In the cohort studies, surface IgM-induced protein tyrosine phosphorylation correlated significantly with CD38 and ZAP-70 expression and with the absence of Ig VH gene mutations. Apoptosis induced by surface IgM cross-linking correlated significantly only with the proportion of CD38-positive cells. Difficulties in finding more definitive correlations were probably related to imprecision in the in vitro test system and in the definition of cases as positive or negative. Collectively, these data indicate that CD38-positive, ZAP-70-positive cells have a greater capacity for signaling through the B-cell receptor and suggest a function for B-cell receptor signaling in promoting chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell expansion, especially within the CD38-positive fraction of the leukemic clone.
Hypergravity produced by centrifugation caused inhibition of elongation growth and a decrease in the cell wall extensibility in azuki bean epicotyls (Vigna angularis Ohwi et Ohashi). Also, hypergravity increased the molecular mass of xyloglucans, whereas it decreased xyloglucan-degrading activity in epicotyls. When the expression profiles of three xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase (XTH) genes, VaXTHS4, VaXTH1 and VaXTH2, were analyzed under hypergravity conditions, the expression of VaXTHS4, which shows only hydrolase activity, was downregulated in proportion to the logarithm of the magnitude of gravity (R = -0.94). However, the gene expression of VaXTH1 or VaXTH2, which shows only transglucosylase activity, was not affected by gravitational conditions. When the seedlings that had been grown at 1 g were transferred to hypergravity conditions at 300 g, the downregulation of VaXTHS4 expression was detected within 1 h. By removal of hypergravity stimulus, VaXTHS4 expression was increased within 1 h. These results suggest that azuki bean epicotyls promptly regulate the expression level of only VaXTHS4 in response to gravity stimuli. The regulation of xyloglucan-hydrolyzing activity as a result of changes in VaXTHS4 expression may be involved in the regulation by gravity of molecular mass of xyloglucans, leading to modifications of cell wall mechanical properties and cell elongation. Lanthanum and gadolinium, potential blockers of mechanosensitive calcium ion permeable channels (mechanoreceptors), nullified the suppression of VaXTHS4 expression, suggesting that mechanoreceptors are responsible for inhibition by hypergravity of VaXTHS4 expression.
Membranes are main targets of drought, and there is growing evidence for the involvement of membrane lipid in plant adaptation to such an environmental stress. Biosynthesis of the galactosylglycerolipids, monogalactosyl-diacylglycerol (MGDG) and digalactosyl-diacylglycerol (DGDG), which are the main components of chloroplast envelope and thylakoid membranes, could be important for plant tolerance to water deficit and for recovery after rehydration. In this study, galactolipid (GL) biosynthesis in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) leaves was analysed during drought stress and subsequent rewatering. Comparison of two cowpea cutivars, one drought tolerant and the other drought susceptible submitted to moderate drought stress, revealed patterns associated with water-deficit tolerance: increase in DGDG leaf content, stimulation of DGDG biosynthesis in terms of (14)C-acetate incorporation and messenger accumulation corresponding to four genes coding for GL synthases (MDG1, MGD2, DGD1 and DGD2). Similar to phosphate starvation, lack of water enhanced DGDG biosynthesis and it was hypothesized that the drought-induced DGDG accumulated in extrachloroplastic membranes, and thus contributes to plant tolerance to arid environments.
The apoplast is known to play a predominant role in the expression of manganese (Mn) toxicity in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) leaves. To unravel early Mn-toxicity responses after 1-3 days Mn treatment also in the leaf symplast, we studied the symplastic reactions induced by Mn in two cultivars differing in Mn tolerance on a total cellular level. Comparative proteome analyses of plants exposed to low or high Mn allowed to identify proteins specifically affected by Mn, particularly in the Mn-sensitive cowpea cultivar. These proteins are involved in CO(2) fixation, stabilization of the Mn cluster of the photosystem II, pathogenesis-response reactions and protein degradation. Chloroplastic proteins important for CO(2) fixation and photosynthesis were of lower abundance upon Mn stress suggesting scavenging of metabolic energy for a specific stress response. Transcriptome analyses supported these findings, but additionally revealed an upregulation of genes involved in signal transduction only in the Mn-sensitive cultivar. In conclusion, a coordinated interplay of apoplastic and symplastic reactions seems to be important during the Mn-stress response in cowpea.
The Mexican bean weevil, Zabrotes subfasciatus, feeds on several seeds such as Vigna unguiculata, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Pisum sativum, causing severe crop losses. This ability to obtain essential compounds from different diets could possibly be explained due to a wide variability of digestive proteinases present in the weevil's midgut. These may improve digestion of many different dietary proteins. Coleopteran serine-like proteinases have not been thoroughly characterized at the molecular level. In this report, a full-length cDNA encoding a trypsin-like protein, named ZsTRYP, was isolated from Z. subfasciatus larvae using RT-PCR, 5' and 3' RACE techniques. The quantitative real-time PCR analysis strongly correlated the Zstryp transcript accumulation to the major feeding developmental larval stage. Zstryp cDNA was subcloned into pET101 vector and expressed in a Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) strain. Nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) affinity chromatography was used to purify a 29.0-kDa recombinant enzyme. The purified ZsTRYP was then assayed with several synthetic peptide substrates and also challenged with different inhibitors. The biochemical data allowed us to classify ZsTRYP as a trypsin. Moreover, homology modeling analysis indicated a typical trypsin structural core and a conserved catalytic triad (His(41), Asp(86), and Ser(182)).
Homalodisca vitripennis Germar 1821 (Hemiptera: Cicadellidae) [Takiya et al. (2006) Ann Entomol Soc Am 99:648-655; syn. H. coagulata (Say)] salivary gland and gut EST libraries were used to isolate cDNA fragments of the gene transcripts encoding for cathepsin L, asparaginyl endopeptidase, cathepsin B, metalloendopeptidase, cathepsin D, multicatalytic endopeptidase, and a sugar-binding C-type lectin. Transcript levels were evaluated in immature and adult H. vitripennis feeding on sunflower (Helianthus annuus) or cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Northern blot hybridization results showed that expression of most of the transcripts were similar for all developmental stages and feeding on the two diets examined. However, the expression of the transcript for asparaginyl endopeptidase was less expressed in sunflower-fed adult females compared to sunflower-fed immatures. Also, the expression of the C-type lectin transcript was up-regulated in adults compared to immatures when fed on either diet. Documenting both the presence and variation of transcript expression involved in putative digestive proteolysis in this xylem-feeding leafhopper is noteworthy and aids efforts to design specific diet formulations for mass production of hosts and parasitoids to be used as effective biological control measures.
Two cDNAs of the enzyme glutathione reductase (GR; EC 1.6.4.2) encoding a dual-targeted isoform (dtGR) and a cytosolic isoform (cGR), were cloned from leaves of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.). Moderate drought stress (Psi w=-1.5MPa) followed by re-watering was applied to common bean cultivars, one tolerant to drought (IPA), the other susceptible (Carioca) and to cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp) cultivars, one tolerant to drought (EPACE-1), and the other susceptible (1183). mRNA levels were much higher for PvcGR than for PvdtGR in all cases. Moderate drought stress induced an up-regulation of the expression of PvcGR in the susceptible cultivars. On the contrary, PvdtGR expression decreased. In the tolerant cowpea EPACE-1, GR gene expression remained stable under drought. During recovery from drought, an up-regulation of the two GR isoforms occurred, with a peak at 6-10h after re-hydration. This suggests that moderate drought stress may lead to a hardening process and acclimation tolerance. The role of GR isoforms in plant tolerance and capacity to recover from drought stress is discussed.
Water deficit is one of the main abiotic factors that affect spring wheat planted in subtropical regions. Accumulation of proline appears to be a promising approach to maintain the productivity of plants under stress condition. However, morphological alterations and growth reduction are observed in transgenic plants carrying genes coding for osmoprotectants controlled by constitutive promoters. We report here the effects of water deficit on wheat plants transformed with the Vigna aconitifolia Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS) cDNA that encodes the key regulatory enzyme in proline biosynthesis, under the control of a stress-induced promoter complex-AIPC. Transgenic wheat plants submitted to 15 days of water shortage presented a distinct response. We have found that drought resulted in the accumulation of proline. The tolerance to water deficit observed in transgenic plants was mainly due to protection mechanisms against oxidative stress and not caused by osmotic adjustment.
Plant Ku genes were identified very recently in Arabidopsis thaliana, and their roles in repair of double-stranded break DNA and maintenance of telomere integrity were scrutinized. In this study, the cDNAs encoding Ku70 (VrKu70) and Ku80 (VrKu80) were isolated from mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) hypocotyls. Both genes were expressed widely among different tissues of mung bean with the highest levels in hypocotyls and leaves. The VrKu gene expression was stimulated by exogenous auxins in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The stimulation could be abolished by auxin transport inhibitors, N-(1-naphthyl) phthalamic acid and 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid implicating that exogenous auxins triggered the effects following their uptake by the cells. Further analysis using specific inhibitors of auxin signaling showed that the stimulation of VrKu expression by 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) was suppressed by intracellular Ca(2+) chelators, calmodulin antagonists, and calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase inhibitors, suggesting the involvement of calmodulin in the signaling pathway. On the other hand, exogenous indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) and alpha-naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) stimulated VrKu expression through the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway. Altogether, it is thus proposed that 2,4-D and IAA (or NAA) regulate the expression of VrKu through two distinct pathways.
Using a combination of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis protein mapping and mass spectrometry analysis, we have established proteome reference maps of embryogenic cell suspensions of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). The cell suspensions were generated from young primary leaves and contained basically pro-embryogenic masses, which enabled us to dissect their proteome composition while eliminating the complexity of too many cell types. Over 550 proteins could reproducibly be resolved over a pI range of 3-10. A total of 128 of the most abundant protein spots were excised, digested in-gel with trypsin and analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry. This enabled the identification of 67 protein spots. Two of the most abundant proteins were identified as a chitinase and as a ribonuclease belonging to the family of PR-4 and PR-10 proteins, respectively. The expression of the respective genes was confirmed by RT-PCR and the pattern of deposition of the PR-10 protein in cell suspensions as well as in developing cowpea seeds, roots, shoots and flowers were determined by Western blot experiments, using synthetic antibodies raised against a 14-amino acid synthetic peptide located close to the C-terminal region of the PR-10 protein.
Pea albumin 1b (PA1b) is a small sulphur-rich peptide from pea seeds, also named leginsulin because of the binding characteristics of its soybean orthologue. Its insecticidal properties were discovered more recently. By using a combination of molecular, biochemical and specific insect bioassays on seed extracts, we characterised genes from numerous Papilionoideae, but not from Caesalpinioideae or Mimosoideae, although the last group harboured species with partially positive cues (homologous biological activities). The A1b defence peptide family, therefore, appears to have evolved relatively late in the legume lineage, maybe from the sophoroid group (e.g. Styphnolobium japonicum). However, unambiguous sequence information is restricted to a group of tribes within the subfamily Papilionoideae (Psoraleae, Millettieae, Desmodieae, Hedysareae, Phaseoleae, Vicieae, and the now clearly polyphyletic "Trifolieae" and "Galegeae"). Recent diversification by gene duplications has occurred in many species, or longer ago in some lineages (Medicago truncatula), as well as probable gene or expression losses at different taxonomic levels (Loteae, Vigna subterranea).
Lipid transfer proteins (LTPs) are antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) involved in the defense of plants against pathogens. Our group has previously characterized and purified a LTP from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.) seeds which caused the inhibition of growth of fungal pathogens in vitro. The aim of this work was to obtain the cDNA encoding the cowpea LTP and after cloning, to use the cDNA as a probe for studying its expression profile during the development of cowpea seeds. In this work, the N-terminal sequence of the mature LTP peptide from cowpea was used to produce a degenerated oligonucleotide. This primer allowed the amplification of the LTP cDNA by RT-PCR from mRNA of cowpea seeds. The sequence analysis of the cloned cDNA, named VULTP, showed 494 bp which encoded a polypeptide of 91 amino acids. The deduced peptide presented high homology of similarity to plant LTPs of Vigna radiata var. radiate (94%), Prunus domestica (82%) and Zea mays (72%). The expression profile of the VULTP gene in cowpea was analyzed by Northern blot and revealed that the transcript is not accumulated in adult tissues. Conversely, VULTP mRNA is early and strongly accumulated during seed development. The results obtained to seedling of cowpea demonstrate that the VULTP gene presents differential expression in response to different stress. Further studies will be conducted to try to gain better understanding about the physiological role of this gene in cowpea.
Reactive oxygen species are frequently produced when plants are exposed to abiotic stresses. Among the detoxication systems, two enzymes, ascorbate peroxidase and glutathione reductase (GR) play key roles. GR has also a central role in keeping the reduced glutathione pool during stress thus allowing the adjustments on the cellular redox reactions. The aim of this work was to study the variations in cytosolic and dual-targeted GR gene expression in the leaves of cowpea plants submitted to progressive drought, rapid desiccation and application of exogenous abscisic acid (ABA). Two cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) cultivars, one drought-resistant ('EPACE-1'), the other drought-sensitive ('1183') were submitted to progressive drought stress by withholding irrigation. Cut-off leaves were air-dried or treated with exogenous ABA. Two GR cDNAs, one cytosolic, the other dual-targeted to chloroplasts and mitochondria were isolated by PCR and cloned in plasmid vectors. Reverse-transcription PCR was used to study the variations in GR gene expression. Two new cDNAs encoding a putative dual-targeted and a cytosolic GR were cloned and sequenced from leaves of V. unguiculata. Drought stress induced an up-regulation of the expression of the cytosolic GR gene directly related to the intensity of the stress in both cultivars. The expression of dual-targeted GR was up-regulated by the drought treatment in the susceptible cultivar only. Under a fast desiccation, the '1183' cultivar responded later than the 'EPACE-1', although in 'EPACE-1' it was the cytosolic isoform which responded and in '1183' the dual-targeted one. Exogenous ABA enhanced significantly the activity and expression levels of GR in both cultivars after treatment for 24 h. These results demonstrate a noticeable activation in both cultivars of the antioxidant metabolism under a progressive water stress, which involves both GR genes in the case of the susceptible cultivar. Under a fast desiccation, the susceptible cultivar responded later than the resistant one, suggesting a weaker capacity of response versus the resistant one. Exogenous ABA probably acts on GR gene expression via a mediated signal transduction pathway.
Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna (MYMV-Vig) is a bipartite geminivirus that causes a severe yellow mosaic disease in blackgram. An assay was developed to study MYMV-Vig replication by agroinoculation of tobacco leaf discs with partial dimers of the virus. This assay, in a non-host model plant, was used to evaluate pathogen-derived resistance contributed by MYMV-Vig genes in transgenic plants. Viral DNA accumulation was optimum in tobacco leaf discs cultured for 10 days after infection with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain Ach5 containing partial dimers of both DNA A and DNA B of MYMV-Vig. Transgenic tobacco plants with MYMV-Vig genes for coat protein (CP), replication-associated protein (Rep)-sense, Rep-antisense, truncated Rep (T-Rep), nuclear shuttle protein (NSP) and movement protein (MP) were generated. Leaf discs from transgenic tobacco plants, harbouring MYMV-Vig genes, were agroinoculated with partial dimers of MYMV-Vig and analyzed for viral DNA accumulation. The leaf discs from transgenic tobacco plants harbouring CP and MP genes supported the accumulation of higher levels of MYMV-Vig DNA. However, MYMV-Vig accumulation was inhibited in one transgenic plant harbouring the Rep-sense gene and in two plants harbouring the T-Rep gene. Northern analysis of these plants revealed a good correlation between expression of Rep or T-Rep genes and inhibition of MYMV-Vig accumulation.
Morphologically normal and fertile transgenic plants of mungbean with two transgenes, bar and alpha-amylase inhibitor, have been developed for the first time. Cotyledonary node explants were transformed by cocultivation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA105 harboring a binary vector pKSB that carried bialaphos resistance (bar) gene and Phaseolus vulgaris alpha-amylase inhibitor-1 (alphaAI-1) gene. Green transformed shoots were regenerated and rooted on medium containing phosphinothricin (PPT). Preculture and wounding of the explants, presence of acetosyringone and PPT-based selection of transformants played significant role in enhancing transformation frequency. Presence and expression of the bar gene in primary transformants was evidenced by PCR-Southern analysis and PPT leaf paint assay, respectively. Integration of the Phaseolus vulgaris alpha-amylase inhibitor gene was confirmed by Southern blot analysis. PCR analysis revealed inheritance of both the transgenes in most of the T(1) lines. Tolerance to herbicide was evidenced from seed germination test and chlorophenol red assay in T(1) plants. Transgenic plants could be recovered after 8-10 weeks of cocultivation with Agrobacterium. An overall transformation frequency of 1.51% was achieved.
We have previously demonstrated that vacuolar sorting receptor (VSR) proteins are concentrated on prevacuolar compartments (PVCs) in plant cells. PVCs in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) BY-2 cells are multivesicular bodies (MVBs) as defined by VSR proteins and the BP-80 reporter, where the transmembrane domain (TMD) and cytoplasmic tail (CT) sequences of BP-80 are sufficient and specific for correct targeting of the reporter to PVCs. The genome of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) contains seven VSR proteins, but little is known about their individual subcellular localization and function. Here, we study the subcellular localization of the seven Arabidopsis VSR proteins (AtVSR1-7) based on the previously proven hypothesis that the TMD and CT sequences correctly target individual VSR to its final destination in transgenic tobacco BY-2 cells. Toward this goal, we have generated seven chimeric constructs containing signal peptide (sp) linked to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and TMD/CT sequences (sp-GFP-TMD/CT) of the seven individual AtVSR. Transgenic tobacco BY-2 cell lines expressing these seven sp-GFP-TMD-CT fusions all exhibited typical punctate signals colocalizing with VSR proteins by confocal immunofluorescence. In addition, wortmannin caused the GFP-marked prevacuolar organelles to form small vacuoles, and VSR antibodies labeled these enlarged MVBs in transgenic BY-2 cells. Wortmannin also caused VSR-marked PVCs to vacuolate in other cell types, including Arabidopsis, rice (Oryza sativa), pea (Pisum sativum), and mung bean (Vigna radiata). Therefore, the seven AtVSRs are localized to MVBs in tobacco BY-2 cells, and wortmannin-induced vacuolation of PVCs is a general response in plants.
Phospholipase D (PLD) is one of the main enzymes involved in signal transduction, vesicle trafficking and membrane metabolism processes. Here we describe the heterologous high-yield expression in the yeast Pichia pastoris, one-step purification and characterization of catalytically active PLDalpha from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp). Immunoblotting experiments showed that recombinant PLDalpha is recognized by a polyclonal antibody raised against native soybean PLDalpha. A single calcium-dependent octyl-Sepharose chromatography step was used to obtain a highly purified recombinant PLDalpha, as attested by gel electrophoresis, N-terminal amino acid sequence and mass spectrometry data. From 1L of yeast culture medium, about 8 mg of pure recombinant PLDalpha was obtained and the specific activity measured on phosphatidylcholine was 27 micromol/min/mg. Contrary to what was observed previously with Vigna unguiculata PLDalpha expressed in insect cells, no proteolytic degradation of the N-terminal calcium-dependent C2 lipid binding domain was observed here. This functional recombinant PLDalpha should provide a valuable tool for performing detailed studies on the molecular characterization of enzymes as well as structural studies.
Legume root nodule nitrogen-fixing activity is severely affected by osmotic stress. Proline accumulation has been shown to induce tolerance to salt stress, and transgenic plants over-expressing Delta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase (P5CS), which accumulates high levels of proline, display enhanced osmotolerance. Here, we transformed the model legume Medicago truncatula with the P5CS gene from Vigna aconitifolia, and nodule activity was evaluated under osmotic stress in transgenic plants that showed high proline accumulation levels. Nitrogen fixation was significantly less affected by salt treatment compared to wild-type (WT) plants. To our knowledge, this is the first time that transgenic legumes have been produced that display nitrogen-fixing activity with enhanced tolerance to osmotic stress. We studied the expression of M. truncatula proline-related endogenous genes M. truncatulaDelta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase 1 (MtP5CS1), M. truncatulaDelta(1)-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase 2 (MtP5CS2), M. truncatula ornithine delta-aminotransferase (MtOAT), M. truncatula proline dehydrogenase (MtProDH) and a proline transporter gene in both WT and transgenic plants. Our results indicate that proline metabolism is finely regulated in response to osmotic stress in an organ-specific manner. The transgenic model allowed us to analyse some of the biochemical and molecular mechanisms that are activated in the nodule in response to high salt conditions, and to ascertain the essential role of proline in the maintenance of nitrogen-fixing activity under osmotic stress.
Interactions between legumes and rhizobia are controlled by the sequential exchange of symbiotic signals. Two different techniques, 2D-PAGE electrophoresis and differential display were used to study the effects of rhizobial signals on legume development. Application of variously substituted lipo-oligo-saccharidic Nod-factors to roots of Vigna unguiculata resulted in changes in the phosphorylation patterns of microsomal proteins. Reliable amino-acid sequences were obtained for one Nod-factor enhanced protein which was highly homologous to the 57-kDa subunit from Arabidopsis thaliana vacuolar membrane H(+)-ATPase. Immuno-blotting techniques demonstrated that Nod-factors cause rapid and massive increases of this enzyme in treated roots, suggesting that H(+)-ATPases play symbiotic roles. Concomitantly, we used differential display (DD) techniques on mRNA isolated from root-hairs to analyse early root responses to NGR234. Significant matches of several DD clones to known sequences were found. Clone D2.62 was homologous to a multitude of receptor kinases including S receptor-like kinases of A. thaliana and clone D4.1 showed similarities to Lotus japonicus phosphatidylinositol transfer-like protein III and late nodulin 16. Independent confirmatory analyses of these differentially expressed clones indicated expression at very low levels.
The alternative oxidase (Aox) was studied at different levels (transcript, protein and capacity) in response to an osmotic shock applied to roots of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). Two cultivars of V. unguiculata were used, Vita 3 and Vita 5, tolerant and sensitive to drought/saline stress respectively. The seedlings (17-day-old) were grown in hydroponic conditions and submitted to NaCl (100 and 200 mM) or 200.67 g L(-1) PEG 6000 (iso-osmotic condition to 100 mM NaCl). The VuAox1 and VuAox2a mRNA were not detected in either cultivar under all tested conditions while the VuAox2b gene was differently expressed. In the tolerant cultivar (Vita 3), the expression of VuAox2b gene was stimulated by an osmotic stress induced by PEG which was associated with a higher amount and capacity of the Aox protein. In the same cultivar, this gene was under-expressed in salt stress conditions with poor effect on the protein level. In the sensitive cultivar (Vita 5), the transcript level of the VuAox2b was unchanged in response to PEG treatment, even though the protein and the capacity tended to increase. Upon salt stress, the VuAox2b gene was over-expressed. At 100mM NaCl, this VuAox2b gene over-expression led to a higher amount and capacity of Aox. This effect was reduced at 200 mM NaCl. Overall, these results suggest complex mechanisms (transcriptional, translational and post-translational) for Aox regulation in response to osmotic stress.
Wheat (Triticum aestivum L. var. DL 1266-5), sunflower (Helianthus annuus L. var. MSFH 17) and mungbean [Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek var. P 9072] were grown in field under atmospheric (360 +/- 10 cm3 m(-3), AC) and elevated (650 +/- 50 cm3 m(-3), EC) CO2 concentrations in open top chambers for entire period of growth and development. Photosynthetic acclimation to elevated CO2 was examined by comparing photosynthesis rate (Pn), Pn/Ci curves, leaf contents of RuBP carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco), change in the transcripts of Rubisco small subunit (SSU) gene and leaf carbohydrate constituents in AC and EC grown plants. The study indicated that photosynthetic acclimation to elevated CO2 concentration in wheat occurred because of down regulation of Rubisco, through limitation imposed on Rubisco SSU gene expression, as a consequence of sugar accumulation in the leaves. Leaf starch accumulators, sunflower and mungbean, showed no down regulation of Pn under EC. The Rubisco contents (%) in leaf soluble protein and rbcS transcript levels were not significantly affected in EC plants compared to AC plants of sunflower and mungbean. The study indicated that accumulation of excess assimilates in the leaves as starch was less inhibitory to Pn and would, therefore, be an important trait for sustenance of Pn not only under EC, but also under AC, where Pn inhibited by end products.
The MET oncogene was causally involved in the pathogenesis of a rare tumor, i.e., the papillary renal cell carcinoma, in which activating mutations, either germline or somatic, were identified. MET activating mutations are rarely found in other human tumors, whereas at higher frequencies, MET is amplified and/or overexpressed in sporadic tumors of specific histotypes, including osteosarcoma. In this work, we provide experimental evidence that overexpression of the MET oncogene causes and sustains the full-blown transformation of osteoblasts. Overexpression of MET, obtained by lentiviral vector-mediated gene transfer, resulted in the conversion of primary human osteoblasts into osteosarcoma cells, displaying the transformed phenotype in vitro and the distinguishing features of human osteosarcomas in vivo. These included atypical nuclei, aberrant mitoses, production of alkaline phosphatase, secretion of osteoid extracellular matrix, and striking neovascularization. Although with a lower tumorigenicity, this phenotype was superimposable to that observed after transfer of the MET gene activated by mutation. Both transformation and tumorigenesis were fully abrogated when MET expression was quenched by short-hairpin RNA or when signaling was impaired by a dominant-negative MET receptor. These data show that MET overexpression is oncogenic and that it is essential for the maintenance of the cancer phenotype.
Aluminium (Al) stimulates the efflux of citrate from apices of rice bean (Vigna umbellata) roots. This response is delayed at least 3 h when roots are exposed to 50 microm Al, indicating that some inducible processes leading to citrate efflux are involved. The physiological bases responsible for the delayed response were examined here. The effects of several antagonists of anion channels and citrate carriers, and of the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide (CHM) on Al-stimulated citrate efflux and/or citrate content were examined by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) or an enzymatic method. Both anion channel inhibitors and citrate carrier inhibitors can inhibit Al-stimulated citrate efflux, with anthracene-9-carboxylic acid (A-9-C, an anion channel inhibitor) and phenylisothiocyanate (PI, a citrate carrier inhibitor) the most effective inhibitors. A 6 h pulse of 50 microm Al induced a significant increase of citrate content in root apices and release of citrate. However, the increase in citrate content preceded the efflux. Furthermore, the release of citrate stimulated by the pulse treatment was inhibited by both A-9-C and PI, indicating the importance of the citrate carrier on the mitochondrial membrane and the anion channel on the plasma membrane for the Al-stimulated citrate efflux. CHM (20 microm) also significantly inhibited Al-stimulated citrate efflux, confirming that de novo protein synthesis is required for Al-stimulated citrate efflux. These results indicate that the activation of genes possibly encoding citrate transporters plays a critical role in Al-stimulated citrate efflux.
The conserved domains of reverse transcriptase (RT) genes of Ty1-copia and Ty3-gypsy groups of long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposons were amplified from mungbean (Vigna radiata) genome using degenerate primers, cloned and sequenced. Among these 34% and 65% of respective clones of copia and gypsy RT sequences possessed stop codons or frame-shifts or both. The RT sequences corresponding to both the groups exhibit significant levels of heterogeneity. Presence of mungbean copia and gypsy RT sequences in other papilionoid legumes of the same (Phaseoleae) and different lineages (Loteae, Trifoleae, Cicereae) indicates existence of these elements prior to the radiation of papilionoid legumes and also supports the recent interpretations of close relationship between Phaseoleae and Loteae tribes of Papilionoideae subfamily. On the other hand significant homologies of some mungbean copia as well as gypsy RT sequences with those of unrelated plant species suggest their origin from different plant lineages and also that heterogeneous population of related elements were already existed throughout (even before the divergence of monocot and dicot) the evolution of these genera from their common ancestor.
A study of life-history traits was made to determine factors associated with the fitness of Meloidogyne incognita isolates virulent to resistance gene Rk in cowpea. Egg hatch, root penetration, egg mass production, and fecundity (eggs per egg mass) of avirulent and virulent phenotypes were compared among M. incognita isolates, isofemale lines, and single descent lines over multiple generations on resistant and susceptible cowpea. Variation (P </= 0.05) in both hatch and root penetration rates was found among isolates at a given generation. However, this variation was not consistent within nematode lines among generations, and there was no correlation with level of virulence, except for penetration and virulence on resistant cowpea at generation 20. Resistant and susceptible cowpea roots were penetrated at similar levels. Differences in reproductive factors on resistant plants were correlated with levels of virulence expression. In some isofemale lines, single descent lines, and isolates, lower (P </= 0.05) rates of egg mass production and fecundity on susceptible cowpea were associated with virulence to Rk, indicating a trade-off between reproductive fitness and virulence. Other virulent nematode lines from the same isolates did not have reduced reproductive ability on susceptible cowpea over 27 generations. Thus, virulent lineages varied in reproductive ability on susceptible cowpea, contributing to adaptation and maintenance of virulence within M. incognita populations under stabilizing selection.
We report the cloning and characterization in tobacco and Arabidopsis of a Vigna radiata L. (mung bean) promoter that controls the expression of VR-ACS1, an auxin-inducible ACC synthase gene. The VR-ACS1 promoter exhibits a very unusual behavior when studied in plants different from its original host, mung bean. GUS and luciferase in situ assays of transgenic plants containing VR-ACS1 promoter fusions show strong constitutive reporter gene expression throughout tobacco and Arabidopsis development. In vitro quantitative analyses show that transgenic plants harboring VR-ACS1 promoter-reporter constructs have on average 4-6 fold higher protein and activity levels of both reporter genes than plants transformed with comparable CaMV 35S promoter fusions. Similar transcript levels are present in VR-ACS1 and CaMV 35S promoter lines, suggesting that the high levels of gene product observed for the VR-ACS1 promoter are the combined result of transcriptional and translational activation. All tested deletion constructs retaining the core promoter region can drive strong constitutive promoter activity in transgenic plants. This is in contrast to mung bean, where expression of the native VR-ACS1 gene is almost undetectable in plants grown under normal conditions, but is rapidly and highly induced by a variety of stimuli. The constitutive behavior of the VR-ACS1 promoter in heterologous hosts is surprising, suggesting that the control mechanisms active in mung bean are impaired in tobacco and Arabidopsis. The 'aberrant' behavior of the VR-ACS1 promoter is further emphasized by its failure to respond to auxin and cycloheximide in heterologous hosts. VR-ACS1 promoter regulatory mechanisms seem to be different from all previously characterized auxin-inducible promoters.
Abiotic stresses stimulate formation of active oxygen species in plant tissues. Among antioxidant mechanisms, H2O2 detoxication by ascorbate peroxidases (APX) plays an important role. Several APX isoforms exist in plant cells, and they have rarely been studied separately. The aim of this work was to study changes in cytosolic, peroxisomal, stromatic and thylakoid APX gene expression in response to progressive drought, rapid desiccation and application of exogenous abscisic acid in the leaves of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) plants. Two cowpea (V. unguiculata) cultivars, 'EPACE-1' which is drought-tolerant and '1183'which is drought-sensitive, were submitted to drought stress by withholding irrigation. Detached leaves were air-dried or treated with exogenous abscisic acid. APX cDNAs were isolated by PCR and cloned in plasmid vectors. Changes in gene expression were studied using reverse-transcription PCR. Four new V. unguiculata cDNAs encoding putative cytosolic, peroxisomal and chloroplastic (stromatic and thylakoidal) APX were isolated and characterized. In response to the different treatments, higher increases in steady-state transcript levels of the cytoplasmic and peroxisomal APX genes were observed in '1183' compared with 'EPACE-1'. On the other hand, the expression of the chloroplastic APX genes was stimulated earlier in the tolerant cultivar when submitted to progressive drought. Water deficit induced differences in transcript accumulation of APX genes between the two cultivars that were related to their respective tolerance to drought. Chloroplastic APX genes responded early to progressive water deficit in the tolerant plant, suggesting a capacity to efficiently detoxify active oxygen species at their production site. The more sensitive '1183' was also able to respond to drought by activating its whole set of APX genes.
Bradyrhizobium sp. (Lupinus) and Bradyrhizobium sp. (Vigna) mutants in which hydrogenase (hup) activity was affected were constructed and analyzed. Vigna unguiculata plants inoculated with the Bradyrhizobium sp. (Vigna) hup mutant showed reduced nitrogenase activity and also a significant decrease in nitrogen content, suggesting a relevant contribution of hydrogenase activity to plant yield.
Cowpeas are nutritious grains that provide the main source of protein, highly digestible energy and vitamins to some of the world's poorest people. The demand for cowpeas is high but yields remain critically low, largely because of insect pests. Cowpea germplasm contains little or no resistance to major insect pests and a gene technology approach to adding insect protection traits is now a high priority. We have adapted features of several legume and other transformation systems and reproducibly obtained transgenic cowpeas that obey Mendelian rules in transmitting the transgene to their progeny. Critical parameters in this transformation system include the choice of cotyledonary nodes from developing or mature seeds as explants and a tissue culture medium devoid of auxins in the early stages, but including the cytokinin BAP at low levels during shoot initiation and elongation. Addition of thiol-compounds during infection and co-culture with Agrobacterium and the choice of the bar gene for selection with phosphinothricin were also important. Transgenic cowpeas that transmit the transgenes to their progeny can be recovered at a rate of one fertile plant per thousand explants. These results pave the way for the introduction of new traits into cowpea and the first genes to be trialled will include those with potential to protect against insect pests.
Rhizobium (Sinorhizobium) sp. strain NGR234 contains three replicons, the smallest of which (pNGR234a) carries most symbiotic genes, including those required for nodulation and lipo-chito-oligosaccharide (Nod factor) biosynthesis. Activation of nod gene expression depends on plant-derived flavonoids, NodD transcriptional activators, and nod box promoter elements. Nod boxes NB6 and NB7 delimit six different types of genes, one of which (fixF) is essential for the formation of effective nodules on Vigna unguiculata. In vegetative culture, wild-type NGR234 produces a distinct, flavonoid-inducible lipopolysaccharide (LPS) that is not produced by the mutant (NGRomegafixF); this LPS is also found in nitrogen-fixing bacteroids isolated from V. unguiculata infected with NGR234. Electron microscopy showed that peribacteroid membrane formation is perturbed in nodule cells infected by the fixF mutant. LPSs were purified from free-living NGR234 cultured in the presence of apigenin. Structural analyses showed that the polysaccharide portions of these LPSs are specialized, rhamnose-containing O antigens attached to a modified core-lipid A carrier. The primary sequence of the O antigen is [-3)-alpha-L-Rhap-(1,3)-alpha-L-Rhap-(1,2)-alpha-L-Rhap-(1-]n, and the LPS core region lacks the acidic sugars commonly associated with the antigenic outer core of LPS from noninduced cells. This rhamnan O antigen, which is absent from noninduced cells, has the same primary sequence as the A-band O antigen of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, except that it is composed of L-rhamnose rather than the D-rhamnose characteristic of the latter. It is noteworthy that A-band LPS is selectively maintained on the P. aeruginosa cell surface during chronic cystic fibrosis lung infection, where it is associated with an increased duration of infection.
A heterogeneous population of cDNAs (designated Vupur3) encoding phosphoribosylglycinamide formyltransferase (GART; EC 2.1.2.2) was isolated from a cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) nodule library. Three classes of cDNA with the same ORF, but differing in their 3'-UTRs, were identified. Southern analysis and sequencing of genomic DNA confirmed that these differences result from alternative splicing of the primary transcript of a single Vupur3 gene. Alternative splicing does not appear to play a role in the production of soybean (Glycine max Merrill.) pur3 transcripts. The presence of the protein product of the Vupur3 gene, GART, in plastids and mitochondria was confirmed by immunoblotting with antibodies raised against the recombinant protein. The antibodies recognised two proteins with apparent molecular masses of 27 and 27.5 kDa in both mitochondria and plastids. All Vupur3 transcripts have two in-frame start codons that are active in wheatgerm in vitro transcription / translation experiments suggesting a mechanism by which the gene product could be targeted to two organelles. Like other genes encoding enzymes for purine synthesis, Vupur3 is expressed in nodules before nitrogen fixation begins but in contrast to these genes its expression does not increase markedly after nitrogen fixation begins.
Geminiviruses package circular single-stranded DNA and replicate in the nucleus via a double-stranded intermediate. This intermediate also serves as a template for bidirectional transcription by polymerase II. Here, we map promoters and transcripts and characterize regulatory proteins of Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna (MYMV), a bipartite geminivirus in the genus Begomovirus. The following new features, which might also apply to other begomoviruses, were revealed in MYMV. The leftward and rightward promoters on DNA-B share the transcription activator AC2-responsive region, which does not overlap the common region that is nearly identical in the two DNA components. The transcription unit for BC1 (movement protein) includes a conserved, leader-based intron. Besides negative-feedback regulation of its own leftward promoter on DNA-A, the replication protein AC1, in cooperation with AC2, synergistically transactivates the rightward promoter, which drives a dicistronic transcription unit for the coat protein AV1. AC2 and the replication enhancer AC3 are expressed from one dicistronic transcript driven by a strong promoter mapped within the upstream AC1 gene. Early and constitutive expression of AC2 is consistent with its essential dual function as an activator of viral transcription and a suppressor of silencing.
Regulation of gene expression represents a long-sought goal of gene therapy. However, most viral vectors pose constraints on the incorporation of drug-dependent transcriptional regulatory systems. Here, by optimizing the design of self-regulating lentiviral vectors based on the tetracycline system, we have been able to overcome the limitations of previously reported constructs and to reach both robust expression and efficient regulation from a single vector. The improved performance allows us to report for the first time effective long-term in vivo regulation of a human clotting Factor IX (hF.IX) transgene upon systemic administration of a single vector to SCID mice. We showed that hF.IX expression in the plasma could be expressed to therapeutically significant concentrations, adjusted to different set levels by varying the tetracycline dose, rapidly turned off and on, and completely recovered after each treatment cycle. The new vector design was versatile, as it successfully incorporated a tissue-specific promoter that selectively targeted regulated expression to hepatocytes. Robust transgene expression in the systemic circulation coupled to the ability to switch off and even adjust the expression level may open the way to safer gene-based delivery of therapeutics.
Bipartite geminiviruses encode a small protein, AC2, that functions as a transactivator of viral transcription and a suppressor of RNA silencing. A relationship between these two functions had not been investigated before. We characterized both of these functions for AC2 from Mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna (MYMV). When transiently expressed in plant protoplasts, MYMV AC2 strongly transactivated the viral promoter; AC2 was detected in the nucleus, and a split nuclear localization signal (NLS) was mapped. In a model Nicotiana benthamiana plant, in which silencing can be triggered biolistically, AC2 reduced local silencing and prevented its systemic spread. Mutations in the AC2 NLS or Zn finger or deletion of its activator domain abolished both these effects, suggesting that suppression of silencing by AC2 requires transactivation of host suppressor(s). In line with this, in Arabidopsis protoplasts, MYMV AC2 or its homologue from African cassava mosaic geminivirus coactivated >30 components of the plant transcriptome, as detected with Affymetrix ATH1 GeneChips. Several corresponding promoters cloned from Arabidopsis were strongly induced by both AC2 proteins. These results suggest that silencing suppression and transcription activation by AC2 are functionally connected and that some of the AC2-inducible host genes discovered here may code for components of an endogenous network that controls silencing.
Transferring multiple genes into the same cell allows for the combination of genetic correction, marking, selection and conditional elimination of transduced cells or the reconstitution of multisubunit components and synergistic pathways. However, this cannot be reliably accomplished by current gene transfer technologies. Based on the finding that some cellular promoters intrinsically promote divergent transcription, we have developed synthetic bidirectional promoters that mediate coordinate transcription of two mRNAs in a ubiquitous or a tissue-specific manner. Lentiviral vectors incorporating the new promoters enabled efficient dual gene transfer in several tissues in vivo after direct delivery or transgenesis, and in a human gene therapy model. Because divergent gene pairs, likely transcribed from shared promoters, are common in the genome, the synthetic promoters that we developed may mimic a well-represented feature of transcription. Vectors incorporating these promoters should increase the power of gene function studies and expand the reach and safety of gene therapy.
Etiolated leaves of 28 degrees C-dark-grown mung bean (Vigna radiata L. cv. 2937) seedlings fail to turn green after being shifted to a light and cold environment. At the visible phenotypic level, incapability of leaf greening is the only failure event for the de-etiolation of mung bean seedlings at low temperature. Ultrastructural studies revealed that chloroplast development was completely suppressed by chilling treatment. A cDNA library originating from 28 degrees C-light-grown seedling leaves was constructed for screening cold-suppressed (cos) genes. Thirteen full-length cDNA clones were obtained, with 12 clones encoding chloroplast proteins, which, according to their known physiological functions, were important for chloroplast development and photosynthesis. Another cos cDNA encodes CYP90A2, which is a cytochrome P450 protein involved in the biosynthesis of brassinosteroid hormones. All cos genes are light-regulated at normal temperature. The influence of chilling stress on cos expression was examined in 10 degrees C-light- and 10 degrees C-dark-grown etiolated seedlings, and in 10 degrees C-light-grown green plants. The data show that cos expression in these three treatments is severely suppressed. This suppression is controlled at the transcriptional level, as demonstrated by nuclear runoff experiments, and is reversible because cos mRNAs accumulate again after the cold-treated plants have been transferred to 28 degrees C.
Cystatins are protein inhibitors of cystein proteinases belonging to the papain family. In cowpea, cystatin-like polypeptides and a cDNA have been identified from seeds and metabolic functions have been attributed to them. This paper describes VuC1, a new cystatin cDNA isolated from cowpea leaves (Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.). Sequence analysis revealed a multicystatin structure with two cystatin-like domains. The recombinant VUC1 protein (rVUC1) was expressed in an heterologous expression system and purified to apparent homogeneity. It appeared to be an efficient inhibitor of papain activity on a chromogenic substrate. Polyclonal antibodies against rVUC1 were obtained. Involvement of the VuC1 cDNA in the cellular response to various abiotic stresses (progressive drought-stress, dessication and application of exogenous abscissic acid) was studied, using Northern blot and Western blot analysis, in the leaf tissues of cowpea plants corresponding to two cultivars with different capacity to tolerate drought-stress. Surprisingly, these abiotic stresses induced accumulation of two VuC1-like messages both translated into VUC1-like polypeptides. Difference in the transcript accumulation patterns was observed between the two cultivars and related to their respective tolerance level. Presence of multiple cystatin-like polypeptides and their possible involvement in the control of leaf protein degradation by cysteine proteinases is discussed.
Flavonoids secreted by host plants activate, in conjunction with the transcriptional activator NodD, nod gene expression of rhizobia resulting in the synthesis of Nod factors, which trigger nodule organogenesis. Interestingly, addition of inducing flavonoids also stimulates the production of the phytohormone indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) in several rhizobia. Here, the molecular basis of IAA synthesis in Rhizobium sp. NGR234 was investigated. Mass spectrometric analysis of culture supernatants indicated that NGR234 is capable of synthesizing IAA via three different pathways. The production of IAA is increased strongly by exposure of NGR234 to daidzein in a NodD1-, NodD2-, and SyrM2-dependent manner. This suggests that the y4wEFG locus that is downstream of nod-box NB15 encodes proteins involved in IAA synthesis. Knockout mutations in y4wE and y4wF abolished flavonoid-inducible IAA synthesis and a functional y4wF was required for constitutive IAA production. The promoter activity of NB15 and IAA production both were enhanced by introduction of a multicopy plasmid carrying nodD2 into NGR234. Surprisingly, the y4wE mutant still nodulated Vigna unguiculata and Tephrosia vogelii, although the nodules contained less IAA and IAA conjugates than those formed by the wild-type bacterium.
A cowpea (Vigna unguiculata cv. EPACE-1) aspartic proteinase (AP) gene was isolated by genomic Library screening. Sequence analysis shows that this AP gene follows the same pattern of intron/exon number and organization as the other isolated plant AP genes, which are distinct from other solved AP genes. Northern blot analysis revealed that cowpea AP accumulates in leaves and stems but not in roots, indicating tissue-specific expression. An increased accumulation of transcripts during senescence suggests enzyme involvement in this process.
Fluorescent proteins, such as green fluorescent protein and red fluorescent protein (DsRED), have become frequently used reporters in plant biology. However, their potential to monitor dynamic gene regulation is limited by their high stability. The recently made DsRED-E5 variant overcame this problem. DsRED-E5 changes its emission spectrum over time from green to red in a concentration independent manner. Therefore, the green to red fluorescence ratio indicates the age of the protein and can be used as a fluorescent timer to monitor dynamics of gene expression. Here, we analyzed the potential of DsRED-E5 as reporter in plant cells. We showed that in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) mesophyll protoplasts, DsRED-E5 changes its fluorescence in a way similar to animal cells. Moreover, the timing of this shift is suitable to study developmental processes in plants. To test whether DsRed-E5 can be used to monitor gene regulation in plant organs, we placed DsRED-E5 under the control of promoters that are either up- or down-regulated (MtACT4 and LeEXT1 promoters) or constitutively expressed (MtACT2 promoter) during root hair development in Medicago truncatula. Analysis of the fluorescence ratios clearly provided more accurate insight into the timing of promoter activity.
We have investigated in Sinorhizobium fredii HH103-1 (=HH103 Str(r)) the influence of the nolR gene on the production of three different bacterial symbiotic signals: Nod factors, signal responsive (SR) proteins, and exopolysaccharide (EPS). The presence of multiple copies of nolR (in plasmid pMUS675) repressed the transcription of all the flavonoid-inducible genes analyzed: nodA, nodD1, nolO, nolX, noeL, rhcJ, hesB, and y4pF. Inactivation of nolR (mutant SVQ517) or its overexpression (presence of pMUS675) altered the amount of Nod factors detected. Mutant SVQ517 produced Nod factors carrying N-methyl residues at the nonreducing N-acetyl-glucosamine, which never have been detected in S. fredii HH103. Plasmid pMUS675 increased the amounts of EPS produced by HH103-1 and SVQ517. The flavonoid genistein repressed EPS production of HH103-1 and SVQ517 but the presence of pMUS675 reduced this repression. The presence of plasmid pMUS675 clearly decreased the secretion of SR proteins. Inactivation, or overexpression, of nolR decreased the capacity of HH103 to nodulate Glycine max. However, HH103-1 and SVQ517 carrying plasmid pMUS675 showed enhanced nodulation capacity with Vigna unguiculata. The nolR gene was positively identified in all S. fredii strains investigated, S. xinjiangense CCBAU110, and S. saheli USDA4102. Apparently, S. teranga USDA4101 does not contain this gene.
Three isoforms of the cDNA of the major 8S globulin of mungbean, 8Salpha, 8Salpha', and 8Sbeta, were isolated, cloned, and characterized. The cDNA sequences of 8Salpha, 8Salpha', and 8Sbeta had open reading frames of 1362, 1359 or 1362, and 1359 bp, respectively, which code for 454, 453 or 454, and 453 amino acids corresponding to molecular weights of 51 973, 51 627 or 51 758, and 51 779, respectively. Homology in terms of cDNA and amino acid sequences was 91-92% between 8Salpha and 8Salpha', 87% between 8Salpha and 8Sbeta, and 86-88% between 8Salpha' and 8Sbeta. The signal peptide was found to be 1-25, 1-24 or 25, and 1-23 for 8Salpha, 8Salpha', and 8Sbeta, respectively, using the signalP website (Nielsen, H.; Engelbrecht, J.; Brunak, S.; von Heijne, G. Protein Eng. 1997, 10, 1-6). The propeptide was determined to be IVHREN. A single site for glycosylation (N-X-S/T) was observed about 90 amino acids from the C terminus. Homology between mungbean 8S isoforms and other 7-8S proteins ranged from 45 to 68% within members of the legume family and 29 to 34% for crops of different species. The major isoform 8Salpha was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified by successive ammonium sulfate fractionation, hydrophobic interaction, and Mono Q column chromatography. The recombinant 8Salpha, but not the native form, was successfully crystallized producing rhombohedral crystals.
Two full-length lipid transfer protein (LTP) cDNAs were isolated from mungbean (Vigna radiata) and designated Vrltp1 and Vrltp2. The deduced amino acid sequences contain the two highly conserved pentapeptides characteristic of plant LTPIs suggesting these Vrltps belong to the LTPI gene family. Vrltp1 mRNA was detected in developing seeds, but Vrltp2 mRNA was not. Within the vegetative tissues, the Vrltp1 and Vrltp2 mRNAs were present only in leaves and stems, but not root tips. Salt and dehydration stresses and exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) treatments resulted in increased mRNA levels of both Vrltps in leaves. We suggest that these unique Vrltps are specific to growing shoot tissues, and may play an important role in plant acclimation to water stress.
Asparaginyl endopeptidase is a cysteine endopeptidase that has strict substrate specificity toward the carboxyl side of asparagine residues, and is possibly involved in the post-translational processing of proproteins. In this report one full-length cDNA, SPAE, was isolated from senescent leaves of sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam). SPAE contained 1479 nucleotides (492 amino acids) in the open reading frame, and exhibited high amino acid sequence homologies (c. 61-68%) with asparaginyl endopeptidases of Vicia sativa, Phaseolus vulgaris, Canavalia ensiformis, and Vigna mungo. SPAE probably encoded a putative precursor protein. Via cleavage of the N- and C-termini, it produced a mature protein containing 325 amino acids (from the 51st to the 375th amino acid residues), the conserved catalytic residues (the 173rd His and 215th Cys amino acid residues), and the putative N-glycosylation site (the 332nd Asn amino acid residue). Semi-quantitative RT-PCR and western blot hybridization showed that SPAE gene expression was enhanced significantly in natural senescent leaves and in dark- and ethephon-induced senescent leaves, but was much less in mature green leaves, stems, and roots. Phylogenic analysis showed that SPAE displayed close association with vacuolar processing enzymes (legumains/asparaginyl endopeptidases), which function via cleavage for proprotein maturation in the protein bodies during seed maturation and germination. In conclusion, sweet potato SPAE is probably a functional, senescence-associated gene and its mRNA and protein levels were significantly enhanced in natural and induced senescent leaves. The possible role and function of SPAE associated with bulk protein degradation and mobilization during leaf senescence were also discussed.
In tropical legumes like Glycine, Phaseolus and Vigna sp., ammonia as direct product of symbiotic nitrogen fixation is converted to ureides (allantoin and allantoic acid) and they were translocated to the shoots as nitrogen source. In the xylem sap of soybean in reproductive phase the ureides reached to 60-75% of soluble nitrogen. In nodules infected cells (plastid and mitochondria) and uninfected cells (peroxisome) shares de novo purine biosynthesis and urate oxidation to produce ureides respectively. Current research revealed unique feathers on this symbiotic metabolism, especially on regulation of purine biosynthesis, uricase gene expression and feedback inhibition of ureides to nitrogen fixing activity.
Auxin induces the expression of the two ethylene-biosynthetic genes VR-ACS6 and VR-ACS7 in etiolated mung bean hypocotyls. However, while it also enhances VR-ACS6 expression in light-grown tissues, it does not up-regulate VR-ACS7 expression in these tissues. Here we show that transfer of 3-day-old etiolated seedlings into light quickly reduced the auxin-induced expression of both genes. However, while auxin-induced VR-ACS6 expression recovered after 24 h of light, VR-ACS7 transcription continued to reduce and was almost completely absent at 36 h. Thus, light differentially modulates the expression of the auxin-inducible VR-ACS genes. In hormone-treated etiolated seedlings, VR-ACS7 was primarily induced in the rapidly elongating zones of hypocotyl and epicotyl tissues, while auxin-induced VR-ACS6 mRNA was evenly distributed throughout the whole seedling. VR-ACS7 promoter-driven beta-glucuronidase (GUS) activity in auxin-treated etiolated transgenic Arabidopsis seedlings was observed in the highly elongating zones of the hypocotyl. During de-etiolation, the GUS activity gradually declined to become confined to the uppermost region of hypocotyls. In situ mRNA localization studies showed that in etiolated mung bean hypocotyls, the auxin-dependent VR-ACS7 transcript was predominantly present in the epidermis, which is the driving site for auxin-mediated elongation. Thus, it appears that the modulation by light of auxin-induced VR-ACS7 expression may correlate closely with the elongation growth response in early seedling development.
Phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC) catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate to generate inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol, both of which act as secondary messengers in animal cells. In this report, we identified in Vigna radiata L. (mung bean) three distinct partial cDNAs (pVr-PLC1, pVr-PLC2, and pVr-PLC3), which encode forms of putative PI-PLC. All three Vr-PLC genes were transcriptionally active and displayed unique patterns of expression. The Vr-PLC1 and Vr-PLC2 transcripts were constitutively expressed to varying degrees in every tissue of mung bean plants examined. In contrast, the Vr-PLC3 mRNA level was very low under normal growth conditions and was rapidly induced in an abscisic acid-independent manner under environmental stress conditions (drought and high salinity). An isolated genomic clone, about 8.2 kb in length, showed that Vr-PLC1 and Vr-PLC3 are in tandem array in the mung bean genome. The predicted primary sequence of Vr-PLC3 (M(r)=67.4 kDa) is reminiscent of the delta-isoform of animal enzymes which contain core sequences found in typical PI-PLCs, such as the catalytic domain comprising X and Y motifs, a lipid-binding C2 domain, and the less conserved EF-hand domain. Results of in vivo targeting experiment using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) showed that the GFP-Vr-PLC3 fusion protein was localized primarily to the plasma membrane of the Arabidopsis protoplast. The C2 domain was essential for Vr-PLC3 to be targeted to the plasma membrane. The possible biological functions of stress-responsive Vr-PLC3 in mung bean plants are discussed.
An iron-superoxide dismutase (FeSOD) with an unusual subcellular localization, VuFeSOD, has been purified from cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) nodules and leaves. The enzyme has two identical subunits of 27 kD that are not covalently bound. Comparison of its N-terminal sequence (NVAGINLL) with the cDNA-derived amino acid sequence showed that VuFeSOD is synthesized as a precursor with seven additional amino acids. The mature protein was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant enzyme was used to generate a polyclonal monospecific antibody. Phylogenetic and immunological data demonstrate that there are at least two types of FeSODs in plants. An enzyme homologous to VuFeSOD is present in soybean (Glycine max) and common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) nodules but not in alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and pea (Pisum sativum) nodules. The latter two species also contain FeSODs in the leaves and nodules, but the enzymes are presumably localized to the chloroplasts and plastids. In contrast, immunoblots of the soluble nodule fraction and immunoelectron microscopy of cryo-processed nodule sections demonstrate that VuFeSOD is localized to the cytosol. Immunoblot analysis showed that the content of VuFeSOD protein increases in senescent nodules with active leghemoglobin degradation, suggesting a direct or indirect (free radical-mediated) role of the released Fe in enzyme induction. Therefore, contrary to the widely held view, FeSODs in plants are not restricted to the chloroplasts and may become an important defensive mechanism against the oxidative stress associated with senescence.
ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3 (EIN3) is a transcription factor involved in the ethylene signal transduction pathway in Arabidopsis. Two full-length cDNA clones, pVR-EIL1 and pVR-EIL2, encoding EIN3-LIKE proteins were isolated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and by screening the cDNA library of mung bean (Vigna radiata) hypocotyls. VR-EIL1 and VR-EIL2 share 70% identity and display varying degrees of sequence conservation (39%-65%) with previously isolated EIN3 homologs from Arabidopsis, tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) plants. Gel retardation assay revealed that both VR-EILs were able to interact specifically with optimal binding sequence-1, the recently identified optimal binding sequence for tobacco TEIL, with the binding of VR-EIL2 being more efficient than that of VR-EIL1. Transient expression analysis using a VR-EIL::smGFP fusion gene in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells indicated that the VR-EIL proteins were effectively targeted to the nucleus. The fusion protein of VR-EIL2 with GAL4 DNA-binding domain strongly activated transcription of a reporter gene in yeast cells, and an essential domain for transcription-stimulating activity was localized to the amino-terminal acidic region that consists of 50 amino acid residues. In contrast with what has been previously found in EIN3- and TEIL-overexpressing Arabidopsis plants, transgenic tobacco seedlings expressing the VR-EIL genes under the control of cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter did not exhibit a constitutive triple response. Instead, they displayed a markedly enhanced proliferation of root hairs, one of the typical ethylene response phenotypes, and increased sensitivity to exogenous ethylene. In addition, the pathogenesis-related (PR) genes encoding beta-1,3-glucanase, osmotin, and PR1 were constitutively expressed in 35S::VR-EIL lines without added ethylene, and were hyperinduced in response to ethylene treatment. These results indicate that VR-EILs are functional in tobacco cells, thereby effectively transactivating the GCC-box-containing PR genes and enhancing sensitivity to ethylene. The possible physiological role of VR-EILs is discussed in the light of the suggestion that they are active components of the ethylene-signaling pathway and their heterologous expressions constitutively turn on a subset of ethylene responses in tobacco plants.
Vigna mungo is one of the large-seeded grain legumes that has not yet been transformed. We report here for the first time the production of morphologically normal and fertile transgenic plants from cotyledonary-node explants inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens carrying binary vector pCAMBIA2301, the latter of which contains a neomycin phosphotransferase ( nptII) gene and a beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene ( uidA) interrupted with an intron. The transformed green shoots, selected and rooted on medium containing kanamycin, tested positive for nptII and uidA genes by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. These shoots were established in soil and grown to maturity to collect the seeds. Mechanical wounding of the explants prior to inoculation with Agrobacterium, time lag in regeneration due to removal of the cotyledons from explants and a second round of selection at the rooting stage were found to be critical for transformation. Analysis of T(0) plants showed the expression and integration of uidA into the plant genome. GUS activity in leaves, roots, flowers, anthers and pollen grains was detected by histochemical assay. PCR analysis of T(1) progeny revealed a Mendelian transgene inheritance pattern. The transformation frequency was 1%, and 6-8 weeks were required for the generation of transgenics.
DNA polymerase eta (Pol eta) is a member of a new class of DNA polymerases that is able to copy DNA containing damaged nucleotides. These polymerases are highly error-prone during copying of unaltered DNA templates. We analyzed the relationship between bypass efficiency and fidelity of DNA synthesis by introducing substitutions for Tyr-52, a highly conserved amino acid, within the human DNA polymerase eta (hPol eta) finger domain. Most substitutions for Tyr-52 caused reduction in bypass of UV-associated damage, measured by the ability to rescue the viability of UV-sensitive yeast cells at a high UV dose. For most mutants, the reduction in bypass ability paralleled the reduction in polymerization activity. Interestingly, the hPol eta Y52E mutant exhibited a greater reduction in bypass efficiency than polymerization activity. The reduction in bypass efficiency was accompanied by an up to 11-fold increase in the incorporation of complementary nucleotides relative to non-complementary nucleotides. The fidelity of DNA synthesis, measured by copying a gapped M13 DNA template in vitro, was also enhanced as much as 15-fold; the enhancement resulted from a decrease in transitions, which were relatively frequent, and a large decrease in transversions. Our demonstration that an amino acid substitution within the active site enhances the fidelity of DNA synthesis by hPol eta, one of the most inaccurate of DNA polymerases, supports the hypothesis that even error-prone DNA polymerases function in base selection.
The regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) levels is achieved in part by high-capacity vacuolar Ca(2+)/H(+) antiporters. An N-terminal regulatory region (NRR) on the Arabidopsis Ca(2+)/H(+) antiporter CAX1 (cation exchanger 1) has been shown previously to regulate Ca(2+) transport by a mechanism of N-terminal auto-inhibition. Here, we examine the regulation of other CAX transporters, both within Arabidopsis and from another plant, mung bean (Vigna radiata), to ascertain if this mechanism is commonly used among Ca(2+)/H(+) antiporters. Biochemical analysis of mung bean VCAX1 expressed in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) showed that N-terminal truncated VCAX1 had approximately 70% greater antiport activity compared with full-length VCAX1. A synthetic peptide corresponding to the NRR of CAX1, which can strongly inhibit Ca(2+) transport by CAX1, could not dramatically inhibit Ca(2+) transport by truncated VCAX1. The N terminus of Arabidopsis CAX3 was also shown to contain an NRR. Additions of either the CAX3 or VCAX1 regulatory regions to the N terminus of an N-terminal truncated CAX1 failed to inhibit CAX1 activity. When fused to N-terminal truncated CAX1, both the CAX3 and VCAX1 regulatory regions could only auto-inhibit CAX1 after mutagenesis of specific amino acids within this NRR region. These findings demonstrate that N-terminal regulation is present in other plant CAX transporters, and suggest distinct regulatory features among these transporters.
The glycosylated forms of abscisic acid (ABA) have been identified from many plant species and are known to be the forms of ABA-catabolism, although their (physiological) roles have not yet been elucidated. ABA-glucosyltransferase (-GTase) is thought to play a key role in the glycosylation of ABA. We isolated an ABA-inducible GTase gene from UDP-GTase homologs obtained from adzuki bean (Vigna angularis) seedlings. The deduced amino acid sequence (accession no. AB065190) showed 30% to 44% identity with the known UDP-GTase homologs. The recombinant protein with a glutathione S-transferase-tag was expressed in Escherichia coli and showed enzymatic activity in an ABA-specific manner. The enzymatic activity was detected over a wide pH range from 5.0 to 9.0, the optimum range being between pH 6.0 and 7.3, in a citrate and Tris-HCl buffer. The product from racemic ABA and UDP-D-glucose was identified to be ABA-GE by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. The recombinant GTase (rAOG) converted 2-trans-(+)-ABA better than (+)-S-ABA and (-)-R-ABA. Although trans-cinnamic acid was slightly converted to its conjugate by the GTase, (-)-PA was not at all. The mRNA level was increased by ABA application or by water stress and wounding. We suggest that the gene encodes an ABA-specific GTase and that its expression is regulated by environmental stress.
Root systems of 28-d-old cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp cv Vita 3: Bradyrhizobium sp. strain CB756) plants bearing nitrogen-fixing nodules in sand culture were exposed to an atmosphere of Ar:O(2) (80:20, v/v) for 48 h and then returned to air. Root systems of control plants were maintained in air throughout. Nodules were harvested at the same times in control and Ar:O(2)-treated root systems. Activities of two enzymes of de novo purine synthesis, glycinamide ribonucleotide transformylase (GART; EC 2.1.2.2), aminoimidazole ribonucleotide synthetase (AIRS; EC 6.3.3.1), uricase (EC 1.7.3.3), and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC; EC 4.1.1.31) were measured together with the protein level of each using immune-specific polyclonal antibodies. AIRS activity and protein both declined to very low levels within 6 h in Ar:O(2) together with a decline in transcript level of pur5, the encoding gene. GART activity, protein, and transcript (pur3) levels were relatively stable. Uricase activity declined in Ar:O(2) as rapidly as AIRS activity but the protein was stable. PEPC activity showed evidence of increased sensitivity to inhibition by malate but the protein level was stable. The data indicate that the flux of fixed N from bacteroids (N(2)-fixing nodule bacteria) is in some way associated with transcriptional control over pur5 and possibly also catabolism of AIRS protein. In contrast, there is limited posttranslational control over GART and PEPC and close posttranslational control over uricase activity. The significance of these different levels of regulation is discussed in relation to the overall control of enhanced expression of plant enzymes in the cowpea symbiosis.
Legume nodules formed by diazotrophic microorganisms are active sites for biological nitrogen fixation (BNF). In tropical regions, a significant part of N supply for soybean, peanut and bean crops is derived from BNF, which is nevertheless often limited by high temperature stress. In contrast, cowpea nodules are very resistant to high temperatures. To understand the molecular bases of thermotolerance during BNF under heat stress, we have used cDNA-amplified fragment length polymorphism experiments to identify differentially expressed transcripts from cowpea nodules subjected to heat shock treatment. The expression profiles obtained showed approximately 600 bands, 55 up-regulated and nine corresponding to genes repressed by heat stress. Twenty transcript-derived fragments were isolated, cloned and sequenced. The Vigna unguiculata nodule and stress response transcripts present similarities to those that encode low molecular weight heat shock proteins, wound-induced proteins, disease resistance protein, and xylan endohydrolase isoenzyme, as well as different housekeeping genes. The differential expression of 15 genes was confirmed by using Northern blot or reverse Northern hybridization experiments.
We developed a panel of lentiviral vectors that displayed tetracycline-regulated transgene expression over two orders of magnitude in bulk, non-selected populations of transduced cells in vitro and in vivo. The robust expression and homogeneous response indicated that most transduced vector genomes were transcription competent and responsive to regulation, providing the lentiviral vector with a novel competitive advantage for gene transfer. After ex vivo transduction and transplantation of cord blood CD34+ cells into NOD/SCID mice, reporter gene expression could be switched "on" and "off" in human hematopoietic cells in vivo for prolonged times, proving integration of the regulated expression system into long-term repopulating cells. By vector injection into established tumor grafts, we achieved efficient delivery and quantitative regulation of transgene expression in vivo. By these approaches, gene function studies can now be performed in in vivo models of human hematopoiesis and cancer. In the future, regulated lentiviral vectors will improve the safety and efficacy of gene therapy.
Additive, dominance, and epistasis genetic basis of seed yield per plant, number of pods per plant, number of seeds per pod, and 1000 seed weight in mungbean (Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek) have been examined, using Triple Test Cross (TTC) analysis. The material for TTC test was evaluated in two seasons i.e., kharif (July-October) and spring/summer (March-June), at the research station of the Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology (NIAB), Faisalabad, Pakistan. Epistasis was present significantly for number of pods per plant and number of seeds per pod when grown in the spring/summer season (March to June). Partition of epistasis showed that additive x additive ('i' type) interaction was an important component of number of pods per plant, and number of seeds per pod was found to be of both types 'i' type, and additive x dominance, and dominance x dominance ('j' and 'l' type) interactions. This indicated that epistasis might be a non-trivial factor in the inheritance of pods per plant, and seeds per pod in mungbean. The expression of epistasis was influenced differentially by particular genotypes, indicating that a limited number of genotypes may not be sufficient to detect non-allelic interactions for a trait in mungbean. Additive and dominance genetic components were significant for all four traits in kharif season (July to October) but only for seed yield and 1000 seed weight in spring/summer season. This suggests that the genes controlling seed yield per plant, and 1000 seed weight are equally sensitive to the environment. The predominance additive gene action in those traits is not significantly influenced by epistasis, suggesting that improvement of the traits can be achieved through standard selection procedures.
Seeds stored under adverse conditions will reduce the viability of germination as a result of induced aging. We have established a procedure to induce accelerated aging for studying the process of aging in mung bean (Vigna radiata) seeds at the molecular level. A full-length cDNA was isolated from acceleratedly aged mung bean seedlings. The cDNA, VrRH1 (Vigna radiata RNA helicase 1), contains an open reading frame of 2139 bp encoding a protein of 713 amino acids. VrRHI has seven highly conserved motifs including the DEAD box as in the case of other plant RNA helicases. VrRHI was sub-cloned into an expression vector pET-28b (+), over-expressed in Escherichia coli BL 21 and purified by a Ni2+-agarose column. The expressed protein showed double-stranded RNA unwinding and ATPase activities. Either ATP or dATP is required for the unwinding activity, indicating that VrRHI is an ATP/dATP-dependent RNA helicase. Northern blot analysis showed the presence of mRNAs hybridized with a full-length cDNA fragment of VrRHI (VrRH transcripts) in mung bean seeds that were imbibed for 16 to 32 h after accelerated aging treatment. The amount of these mRNAs reached a maximum in 24 h imbibed seeds after the treatment. The accumulation of VrRH transcripts was shown to lead to the appearance of 25S and 18S rRNAs in the imbibed aging mung bean seeds. The results suggest that VrRHI may play a role in the viability of mung bean seeds.
Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of Vigna radiata L. Wilczek has been achieved. Hypocotyl and primary leaves excised from 2-day-old in-vitro grown seedlings produced transgenic calli on B(5) basal medium supplemented with 5x10(-6) M BAP, 2.5x10(-6) M each of 2,4-D and NAA and 50 mg l(-1) kanamycin after co-cultivation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains, LBA4404 (pTOK233), EHA105 (pBin9GusInt) and C58C1 (pIG121Hm) all containing beta-glucuronidase (gusA) and neomycin phosphotransferase II (nptII) marker genes. Transformed calli were found resistant to kanamycin up to 1000 mg(.)l(-1). Gene expression of kanamycin resistance (nptII) and gusA in transformed calli was demonstrated by nptII assay and GUS histochemical analysis, respectively. Stable integration of T-DNA into the genome of transformed calli of mungbean was confirmed by Southern blot analysis. Transgenic calli could not regenerate shoots on B(5) or B(5) containing different cytokinins or auxins alone or in combination. However, for the first time, transformed green shoots showing strong GUS activity were regenerated directly from cotyledonary node explants cultured after co-cultivation with LBA4404 (pTOK233) on B(5) medium containing 6-benzylaminopurine (5x10(-7) M) and 75 mg l(-1) kanamycin. The putative transformed shoots were rooted on B(5)+indole-3-butyric acid (5x10(-6) M) within 10-14 days and resulted plantlets subsequently developed flowers and pods with viable seeds in vitro after 20 days of root induction. The stamens, pollen grains and T(0) seeds showed GUS activity. Molecular analysis of putative transformed plants revealed the integration and expression of transgenes in T(0) plants and their seeds.
Alpha-amylase is expressed at high levels in cotyledons of germinated seeds of Vigna mungo. The mRNA for alpha-amylase appeared in cotyledons of the seeds at 1 d after imbibition started (DAI). Two TGACGT motifs at -445 and at -125 in the promoter region of the gene interacted with nuclear proteins from cotyledons of dry seeds and the activities were detected until 3 DAI. A transient assay with particle bombardment showed that the downstream region from -135 in the promoter was required for high level expression in the cotyledons and the activity was reduced by mutation of the TGACGT motif at -125. The activities to bind the TGACGT motifs were detected in the axes of the seeds at 1 DAI but disappeared at 4 DAI, although the mRNA for alpha-amylase in the axes appeared at 4 DAI and increased in level by 6 DAI. A transient assay experiment showed that a positive regulatory element for the expression in the axes was located in the region from -630 to -453. These results indicated that the TGACGT motif at -125 was required for high level expression of the gene in the cotyledons of the germinated seeds.
Agrobacterium mediated transformation of Vigna sesquipedalis was achieved using cotyledonary node explants prepared from 5 days old seedlings germinated on B5 basal medium, and transformed using Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA101, carrying the phosphinothricin-N-acetyltransferase gene and neomycin-3-phosphotransferase-II gene as selectable markers and GUS gene as a screenable marker. Gene transfer was achieved by inoculation of cotyledonary node explants with a bacterial suspension and a further cocultivation with Agrobacterium suspension for 3 days on B5 basal medium. Only 10% of the explants were transformed with EHA101 and exhibited transient expression of GUS genes, while 2% of shoots exhibited stable integration of genes and developed into plants. Transgenic character of tissues was confirmed by GUS assay and Southern analysis. Histological analysis of GUS gene expression directly after cocultivation revealed a high competence of subepidermal cell layers of cotyledonary node and associated cotyledons for transformation with Agrobacterium.
Four cultivars of related species, common bean and cowpea, which exhibit different degrees of drought resistance, were submitted to water stress by withholding irrigation. Drought induced an increase in endoproteolytic activity, being higher in susceptible cultivars (bean) than in tolerant ones (cowpea). An aspartic protease activity was found to be strongly induced especially in bean. From a cowpea leaf cDNA library, a full length aspartic protease precursor cDNA was obtained. Transcript accumulation in response to water stress indicated that the expression of the gene was constitutive in cowpea and transcriptionally up-regulated in bean. The results showed that drought-tolerant and drought-susceptible bean plants differ regarding aspartic protease precursor gene expression.
A cDNA (Vupat1) encoding a predicted 43 kDa protein was isolated from drought-stressed cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) leaves. It has homology with patatin, a potato tuber storage protein with lipolytic acyl hydrolase activity. The recombinant protein VUPAT1 expressed in the baculovirus system displays preferentially galactolipid acyl hydrolase activity. Phospholipids are very slowly hydrolyzed and apparently triacylglycerols are not deacylated. Vupat1 promoter contains putative drought-inducible sequences. Northern blots showed that gene expression is stimulated by drought stress and is more pronounced in a drought-sensitive cultivar than in a drought-tolerant one. An involvement in drought-induced galactolipid degradation is proposed for VUPAT1.
Two cDNAs encoding putative phosphatidate phosphatases (PAPs) designated VuPAP-alpha and VuPAP-beta were cloned in cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L.) leaves. The predicted proteins have six membrane-spanning regions in common with animal type-2 PAPs. Unlike VuPAP-beta, VuPAP-alpha has an N-terminal transit peptide and is targeted in vitro to the chloroplasts. Gene expression of VuPAP-beta is stimulated by rapid air-desiccation of leaves and VuPAP-alpha transcripts increase during rehydration of plants exposed to drought-like conditions.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is a potent paracrine mediator of stromal/epithelial interactions, which is secreted as a matrix-associated inactive precursor (pro-HGF) and locally activated by tightly controlled urokinase cleavage. It induces proliferation and motility in epithelial and endothelial cells, and plays a role in physiological and pathological processes involving invasive cell growth, such as angiogenesis and parenchymal regeneration. We now report that HGF induces directional migration and cytokine secretion in human monocytes. Monocyte activation by endotoxin and IL-1beta results in the up-regulation of the HGF receptor expression and in the induction of cell-associated pro-HGF convertase activity, thus enhancing cell responsiveness to the factor. Furthermore, we provide evidence for the secretion of biologically active HGF by activated monocytes, implying an autocrine stimulation. Altogether, these data indicate that monocyte function is modulated by HGF in a paracrine/autocrine manner, and provide a new link between stromal environment and mononuclear phagocytes.
Cultivated and wild species of the genus Vigna were screened for their flavonoid content. Flavonoid HPLC analyses clearly showed that cultivated lines of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) are very similar from a qualitative point of view, always showing three flavonoid aglycons: quercetin, kaempferol, and isorhamnetin. In addition, a positive relationship between resistance/susceptibility characteristics against aphids and flavonoid glycoside content of cowpea lines was found. The resistant lines showed a flavonoid content higher than that of susceptible ones. In vitro bioassays proved that, among endogenous flavonoids, quercetin and isorhamnetin possess a good inhibitory aphid reproduction rate. Flavonoid HPLC analyses of wild Vigna species supported evidence for the existence of different flavonoid chemotypes in some species of section Vigna. There are kaempferol chemotypes, kaempferol being the main aglycon detected, quercetin chemotypes, containing quercetin glycosides only, and two isorhamnetin chemotypes. When the resistance characteristics to aphids in different chemotypes of the same species were tested, it became evident that quercetin or isorhamnetin chemotypes showed a higher level of resistance compared to kaempferol chemotypes in the same species, thus demonstrating a direct involvement of quercetin or isorhamnetin in the resistance mechanism. These results can provide useful information for further studies on gene expression of resistance factors.
Lentiviral vectors are tools for gene transfer derived from lentiviruses. From their first application to now they have been strongly developed in design, in biosafety and in their ability of transgene expression into target cells. Primate and non-primate derived lentiviral vectors are now available and with both types of systems a lot of studies tuned to improve their performances in a large number of tissues are ongoing. Here we review the state of the art of lentiviral vector systems discussing their potential for gene therapy.
Four cDNA clones named CPRD (cowpea responsive to dehydration) corresponding to genes that are responsive to dehydration were isolated using differential screening of a cDNA library prepared from 10-h dehydrated drought-tolerant cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) plants. One of the cDNA clones has a homology to 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase (named VuNCED1), which is supposed to be involved in abscisic acid (ABA) biosynthesis. The GST (glutathione S-transferase)-fused protein indicates a 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase activity, which catalyzes the cleavage of 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid. The N-terminal region of the VuNCED1 protein directed the fused sGFP (synthetic green-fluorescent protein) into the plastids of the protoplasts, indicating that the N-terminal sequence acts as a transit peptide. Both the accumulation of ABA and expression of VuNCED1 were strongly induced by drought stress in the 8-d-old cowpea plant, whereas drought stress did not trigger the expression of VuABA1 (accession no. AB030295) gene that encodes zeaxanthin epoxidase. These results indicate that the VuNCED1 cDNA encodes a 9-cis-epoxycarotenoid dioxygenase and that its product has a key role in the synthesis of ABA under drought stress.
We have identified and characterized protein factors from mung bean (Vigna radiata) nuclear extracts that specifically bind the single-stranded G-rich telomeric DNA repeats. Nuclear extracts were prepared from three different types of plant tissue, radicle, hypocotyl, and root, in order to examine changes in the expression patterns of telomere-binding proteins during the development of mung bean. At least three types of specific complexes (A, B, and C) were detected by gel retardation assays with synthetic telomere and nuclear extract from radicle tissue, whereas the two major faster-migrating complexes (A and B) were formed with nuclear extracts from hypocotyl and root tissues. Gel retardation assays also revealed differences in relative amount of each complex forming activity in radicle, hypocotyl, and root nuclear extracts. These data suggest that the expression of telomere-binding proteins is developmentally regulated in plants, and that the factor involved in the formation of complex C may be required during the early stages of development. The binding factors have properties of proteins and are hence designated as mung bean G-rich telomere-binding proteins (MGBP). MGBPs bind DNA substrates with three or more single-stranded TTTAGGG repeats, while none of them show binding affinity to either double-stranded or single-stranded C-rich telomeric DNA. These proteins have a lower affinity to human telomeric sequences than to plant telomeric sequences and do not exhibit a significant binding activity to Tetrahymena telomeric sequence or mutated plant telomeric sequences, indicating that their binding activities are specific to plant telomere. Furthermore, RNase treatment of the nuclear extracts did not affect the complex formation activities. This result indicates that the single-stranded telomere-binding activities may be attributed to a simple protein but not a ribonucleoprotein. The ability of MGBPs to bind specifically the single-stranded TTTAGGG repeats may suggest their in vivo functions in the chromosome ends of plants.
Stachyose is the major soluble carbohydrate in seeds of a number of important crop species. It is synthesized from raffinose and galactinol by the action of stachyose synthase (EC 2.4.1.67). We report here on the identification of a cDNA encoding stachyose synthase from seeds of adzuki bean (Vigna angularis Ohwi et Ohashi). Based on internal amino acid sequences of the enzyme purified from adzuki bean, oligonucleotides were designed and used to amplify corresponding sequences from adzuki bean cDNA by RT-PCR, followed by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE-PCR). The complete cDNA sequence comprised 3046 nucleotides and included an open reading frame which encoded a polypeptide of 857 amino acid residues. The entire coding region was amplified by PCR, engineered into the baculovirus expression vector pVL1393 and introduced into Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf21) insect cells for heterologous expression. The recombinant protein was immunologically reactive with polyclonal antibodies raised against stachyose synthase purified from adzuki bean and was shown to be a functional stachyose synthase with the same catalytic properties as its native counterpart. High levels of stachyose synthase mRNA were transiently accumulated midway through seed development, and the enzyme was also present in mature seeds and during germination.
Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) and Phaseolus vulgaris (common bean) are permissive hosts for southern cowpea mosaic virus (SCPMV) and southern bean mosaic virus (SBMV), respectively. Neither of these two sobemoviruses systemically infects the permissive host of the other. Although bean cells are permissive for SCPMV RNA synthesis, they do not support the assembly of this virus. Thus, the host range restriction of SCPMV in bean may occur at the level of movement and may involve the inability of SCPMV to assemble in this host. In this study, it was demonstrated that SCPMV accumulates in an encapsidated form in the inoculated and systemic leaves of bean plants following coinoculation with SBMV. No evidence was observed that the SCPMV that accumulated in coinoculated bean plants had an altered host range relative to wild-type SCPMV. These results suggested that SBMV complemented the host range restriction of SCPMV in bean. Additional experiments demonstrated that cowpea protoplasts are permissive for SBMV RNA synthesis and assembly. It was concluded from these results that the host range restriction of SBMV in cowpea occurs at the level of movement. In mixed infections of cowpea with SCPMV and SBMV, the latter was recovered from the inoculated but not the systemic leaves. Its recovery from the inoculated leaves, however, was not dependent on the presence of SCPMV in the inoculum. From these results, it was concluded that SCPMV did not complement the host range restriction of SBMV in cowpea.
Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) markedly increased ethylene production by inducing the expression of three 1aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) synthase cDNAs (pVR-ACS1, pVR-ACS6 and pVR-ACS7) in mung bean hypocotyls. Results from nuclear run-on transcription assay and RNA gel blot studies revealed that all three genes were transcriptionally active displaying unique patterns of induction by IAA and various hormones in etiolated hypocotyls. Particularly, 24-epibrassinolide (BR), an active brassinosteroid, specifically enhanced the expression of VR-ACS7 by a distinct temporal induction mechanism compared to that of IAA. In addition, BR synergistically increased the IAA-induced VR-ACS6 and VR-ACS7 transcript levels, while it effectively abolished both the IAA- and kinetin-induced accumulation of VR-ACS1 mRNA. In light-grown plants, VR-ACS1 was induced by IAA in roots, and VR-ACS6 in epicotyls. IAA- and BR-treatments were not able to increase the VR-ACS7 transcript in the light-grown tissues. These results indicate that the expression of ACC synthase multigene family is regulated by complex hormonal and developmental networks in a gene- and tissue-specific manner in mung bean plants. The VR-ACS7 gene was isolated, and chimeric fusion between the 2.4 kb 5'-upstream region and the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene was constructed and introduced into Nicotiana tabacum. Analysis of transgenic tobacco plants revealed the VR-ACS7 promoter-driven GUS activity at a highly localized region of the hypocotyl-root junction of control seedlings, while a marked induction of GUS activity was detected only in the hypocotyl region of the IAA-treated transgenic seedlings where rapid cell elongation occurs. Although there was a modest synergistic effect of BR on the IAA-induced GUS activity, BR alone failed to increase the GUS activity, suggesting that induction of VR-ACS7 occurs via separate signaling pathways in response to IAA and BR. A scheme of the multiple regulatory pathways for the expression of ACC synthase multigene family by auxin and BR is presented.
A rat kidney epithelial cell line expressing the rat neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1 R) was used to investigate the relationship between receptor phosphorylation and desensitization. Substance P (SP) maximally stimulated cellular inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) production 14-fold within 3 s, after which cellular IP3 levels rapidly diminished to near basal levels in the continuing presence of SP. SP also caused concentration-dependent phosphorylation of the NK-1R, and this effect was blocked by a receptor antagonist. Stimulation with 100 nM SP for as little as 2 s resulted in 90% desensitization of the receptor to restimulation by SP, and near-maximal receptor phosphorylation was observed at 5 s. Receptor desensitization was not affected by agents that affect protein kinase A. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) also caused phosphorylation and desensitization of the receptor but with slower kinetics and to a lesser extent than SP. PMA- but not SP-induced NK-1 R desensitization and phosphorylation were abolished by the protein kinase C inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide 1. The concentration-response curves for SP-stimulated IP3 signaling and desensitization were similar, but the curve for NK-1R phosphorylation was shifted to the right and was steeper, suggesting that the relationship between desensitization and phosphorylation is complex. These results show that both rapid homologous and rapid heterologous NK-1R desensitizations may be mediated by receptor phosphorylation but occur via distinct mechanisms with different kinetics and efficacies.
While using YIp356 and YEp356R lacZ reporter plasmids, we found lacZ expression driven by the ARG2 promoter to be much higher in cells grown on a non-glucose carbon source than in glucose-grown cells (5-10-fold higher on galactose and up to 40-fold higher on ethanol). Furthermore, expression increased 30-fold upon shifting from a high-glucose to a low-glucose medium. This carbon source regulation requires Snf1p and possibly Ssn6p. It appears, however, to be artefactually mediated by plasmid sequences located upstream from the multicloning site. This emerged from the following observations: (a) the derepressive effect disappears if any extra piece of DNA is inserted upstream from the ARG2 promoter; and (b) similar derepression on low glucose is observed with another yeast promoter (ARG11), provided that the flanking 5' region is short. We determined that the cis-elements responsible for this physiologically irrelevant glucose regulation are located between positions 636 and 879 of the pUC18 DNA sequence.
A genomic clone for VR-ACS6, an isozyme of auxin-inducible ACC synthase of mungbean, was isolated, and its promoter activity was examined in transgenic tobacco. The clone contained 1,612 bp long 5' untranscribed region and its coding sequence consisted of three exons and two introns. Genomic Southern hybridization indicated that VR-ACS6 is a single copy gene. The transcription initiation site was a cytosine present at 231-base upstream the translation start codon. The VR-ACS6 promoter contained DNA sequences homologous to various functionally identified auxin-responsive elements. To demonstrate hormonal response of the promoter region, transgenic tobacco plants carrying the 1,719 bp VR-ACS6 promoter/-glucuronidase (GUS) fusion gene were generated. Strong GUS expression occurred by auxin treatment of leaves of T0 transformants and hypocotyls of T1 etiolated seedlings. Magnitude of the response to auxin was dose-dependent, and the increased GUS activity was detected at 0.1 microM and higher concentrations of IAA. Other plant hormones did not induce GUS activity, but greatly modified the response to auxin. Cytokinin enhanced the IAA-induced expression of GUS reporter gene, whereas ABA and ethylene suppressed the expression. These characteristics of VR-ACS6 promoter activity in transgenic tobacco are in good accordance with the expression patterns of the gene in mungbean hypocotyls. Histochemical staining showed that GUS activity was evident in both etiolated and light grown seedings treated with IAA. Cytokinin enhanced the intensity of auxin-induced GUS stain and also expanded the stained area, whereas ABA and ethylene reduced both intensity and area of the stain.
Phospholipase D, a major lipid-degrading enzyme in plants, was studied in two cultivars of Vigna unguiculata L.Walp, differing in their tolerance to drought (cv. EPACE-1, drought-tolerant, and cv. 1183, drought-susceptible). Enzymatic activities, measured with 14C-PC as substrate, increased when plants were submitted to water stress, the increase being much higher in the drought-sensitive cultivar. A 2911 bp cDNA encoding a putative phospholipase D (VuPLD1) was isolated from a cDNA library prepared from V. unguiculata leaves. The deduced amino acid sequence (809 residues) shows 85.5% identity and 91.3% similarity to that of PLD from Ricinus communis. The expression of the VuPLD1 gene in the leaves is differently modulated by water deficit, depending on the intensity of stress and the tolerance or sensitivity of the plants. In the drought-susceptible V. unguiculata cv. 1183, it readily increased under water stress, reaching maximum values at mild water deficit (-1.5 MPa). In the drought-tolerant cv. EPACE-1, VuPLD1 mRNA remained low throughout the whole drought treatment. Dehydration of leaves led to a dramatic increase in transcript level in both cultivars. Changes in protein amounts semi-quantified by immunoblotting correlated well with variations in transcript steady-state level. Taken together, these results showed that phospholipase D in cowpea plants is essentially regulated at the transcriptional level, and that gene expression is strongly stimulated even by moderate water deficit in the drought-sensitive plant. On the contrary, the drought-tolerant plant presents a remarkable stability of PLD gene expression in conditions of water stress.
The ornithine transaminase (otaA) gene of Aspergillus nidulans has been cloned by transformation of the A. nidulans pro-ota- mutant strain with a cosmid gene library. The otaA gene contains two introns and potentially codes for a 453-aa-long protein. The deduced amino-acid sequence is homologous to known ornithine transaminases from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Plasmodium falciparum, Vigna aconitifolia, rat, mouse and man, particularly in the pyridoxal phosphate-binding domain. The expression of the otaA gene is specifically induced by arginine, and is also under the control of nitrogen-metabolite and carbon-catabolite repression. Regulation of the gene occurs at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. The promoter region of otaA contains putative AREA and CREA binding-sites. Fusion proteins containing AREA or CREA DNA-binding domains bind some of these sites. CREA binding-sites correspond very well to the CREA-binding consensus sequence which is SYGGRG. AREA binding-sites are composed of GATT sequences which are not typical binding sites for the GATA - binding family of transcription factors.
The nodulation factors (Nod factors) of Rhizobium etli and R. loti carry a 4-O-acetyl-L-fucosyl group at the reducing end. It has been claimed, based on sequence analysis, that NolL from R. loti participates in the 4-O-acetylation of the fucosyl residue of the Nod factors, as an acetyl-transferase (D. B. Scott, C. A. Young, J. M. Collins-Emerson, E. A. Terzaghi, E. S. Rockman, P. A. Lewis, and C. E. Pankhurst. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 9:187-197, 1996). Further support for this hypothesis was obtained by studying the production of Nod factors in an R. etli nolL::Km mutant. Chromatographic and mass spectrometry analysis of the Nod factors produced by this strain showed that they lack the acetyl-fucosyl substituent, having a fucosyl group instead. Acetyl-fucosylation was restored upon complementation with a wild-type nolL gene. These results indicate that the nolL gene determines 4-O-acetylation of the fucosyl residue in Nod factors. Analysis of the predicted NolL polypeptide suggests a transmembranal location and that it belongs to the family of integral membrane transacylases (J. M. Slauch, A. A. Lee, M. J. Mahan, and J. J. Mekalanos. J. Bacteriol. 178:5904-5909, 1996). NolL from R. loti was also proposed to function as a transporter; our results show that NolL does not determine a differential secretion of Nod factors from the cell. We also performed plant assays that indicate that acetylation of the fucose conditions efficient nodulation by R. etli of some Phaseolus vulgaris cultivars, as well as of an alternate host (Vigna umbellata).
Ferritin gene expression has been demonstrated in a variety of plants including maize, Arabidopsis, cowpeas, soybeans, beans and peas. Most available evidence shows that the mature protein is located in plastids and its production is under gene transcriptional control. In maize, two different ferritin genes have been identified; they were found to express protein under different physiological conditions. Only single gene products have been found until now in the other plants, with the exception of cowpeas (Vigna unguiculata). Our previous work with cowpeas [Wicks and Entsch (1993) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 192, 813-819] showed the existence of a family of at least three ferritin genes, each coding for a protein subunit with a unique amino acid sequence. Here we report the discovery of a fourth active gene in cowpeas and present the full cDNA sequences for two of the four known members of the cowpea gene family. We also provide preliminary evidence for a family of ferritin genes in soybeans (Glycine max) related to that in cowpeas. We conclude that a family of genes is probably present in all higher plants. We have used quantitative reverse transcriptase-mediated PCR to show that each of the four members of the cowpea ferritin gene family expresses mRNA in leaves and roots under normal growth with a complete nutrient supply. The results clearly show a marked differential pattern of mRNA levels formed during development from the four genes. We conclude that the composition of plant ferritin molecules from plant leaf extracts is probably a complex mixture of subunits, which might be different in roots and in leaves.
Eutypine, 4-hydroxy-3-(3-methyl-3-butene-1-ynyl) benzyl aldehyde, is a toxin produced by Eutypa lata, the causal agent of eutypa dieback of grapevines. It has previously been demonstrated that tolerance of some cultivars to this disease was correlated with their capacity to convert eutypine to the corresponding alcohol, eutypinol, which lacks phytotoxicity. We have thus purified to homogeneity a protein from Vigna radiata that exhibited eutypine-reducing activity and have isolated the corresponding cDNA. This encodes an NADPH-dependent reductase of 36 kDa that we have named Vigna radiata eutypine-reducing enzyme (VR-ERE), based on the capacity of a recombinant form of the protein to reduce eutypine into eutypinol. The strongest homologies (86.8%) of VR-ERE at the amino acid level were found with CPRD14, a drought-inducible gene of unknown function, isolated from Vigna unguiculata and with an aromatic alcohol dehydrogenase (71.7%) from Eucalyptus gunnii. Biochemical characterization of VR-ERE revealed that a variety of compounds containing an aldehyde group can act as substrates. However, the highest affinity was observed with 3-substituted benzaldehydes. Expression of a VR-ERE transgene in Vitis vinifera cells cultured in vitro conferred resistance to the toxin. This discovery opens up new biotechnological approaches for the generation of grapevines resistant to eutypa dieback.
Inoculation of Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) with transcripts synthesized in vitro from a genome-length cDNA clone of the cowpea strain of southern bean mosaic virus (SBMV-C) resulted in a systemic SBMV-C infection of this host. Capped RNA was about five times more infectious than uncapped RNA as determined by a local lesion assay. The SBMV-C cDNA clone was also used for mutagenesis of the four SBMV-C open reading frames (ORFs). ORF1, ORF3, and coat protein (CP) mutants were not infectious in cowpea. Electroporation of cowpea protoplasts with mutant transcripts demonstrated that the ORF1, ORF3, and CP gene products were not required for SBMV-C RNA synthesis, and the ORF1 and ORF3 gene products were not required for SBMV-C assembly. From these results, it was concluded that the ORF1 and ORF3 proteins and the CP are required for SBMV-C cell-to-cell movement. One of the ORF3 mutants pSBMV2-UAA1833 contained a nonsense codon between the predicted -1 ribosomal frameshift site (SBMV-C nucleotides 1796-1802) and a potential ORF3 translation initiation codon at SBMV-C nucleotide 1895. The lack of infectivity of this mutant suggested that ORF3 was expressed by a -1 ribosomal frameshift in ORF2 rather than by initiation of translation at nucleotide 1895.
Two different cDNA clones, MsP5CS-1 and MsP5CS-2, encoding delta1 -pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthase (P5CS). the first enzyme of the proline biosynthetic pathway, were isolated from a lambdaZap-cDNA library constructed from salt stressed Medicago sativa roots. MsP5CS-1 (2.6 kb) has an open reading frame of 717 amino acids, as well as a non-spliced intron at a position corresponding to the evolutionary fusion point of the bacterial proA and proB genes. MsP5CS-2 (1.25 kb) is a partial clone. The clones share 65% identity in nucleotide sequences, 74% homology in deduced amino acid sequences, and both show a high similarity to Vigna aconitifolia and Arabidopsis thaliana P5CS cDNA clones. Southern blot analysis confirmed the presence of two different P5CS genes. The effect of salinity on the transcription of MsP5CS-1 and MsP5CS-2 in roots was studied, using northern blot analysis and a RT-PCR approach. A rapid increase in the steady-state transcript level of both genes in roots was observed by RT-PCR upon exposure of hydroponically grown 6-day old seedlings to 90 mM NaCl, suggesting that both are salt-inducible genes, yet a higher response was observed for MsP5CS-2.
Survivin is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family. We investigated the antiapoptotic mechanism of Survivin, as well as its expression in 60 human tumor cell lines used for the National Cancer Institute's anticancer drug screening program. In cotransfection experiments, cell death induced by Bax or Fas (CD 95) was partially inhibited (mean +/- SD, 65% +/- 8%) by Survivin, whereas XIAP, another IAP family member, almost completely blocked cell death (93% +/- 4%) under the same conditions. Survivin and XIAP also protected 293 cells from apoptosis induced by overexpression of procaspase-3 and -7 and inhibited the processing of these zymogens into active caspases. In vitro binding experiments indicated that, like other IAP-family proteins, Survivin binds specifically to the terminal effector cell death proteases, caspase-3 and -7, but not to the proximal initiator protease caspase-8. Using a cell-free system in which cytosolic extracts were derived from control- or Survivin-transfected cells and where caspases were activated either by addition of cytochrome c and dATP or by adding recombinant active caspase-8, Survivin was able to substantially reduce caspase activity, as measured by cleavage of a tetrapeptide substrate, AspGluValAsp-aminofluorocoumarin. Similar results were obtained in intact cells when Survivin was overexpressed by gene transfection and caspase activation was induced by the anticancer drug etoposide. Survivin was expressed in all 60 cancer cell lines analyzed, with highest levels in breast and lung cancers and lowest levels in renal cancers. These findings indicate that Survivin, which is commonly expressed in human tumor cell lines, can bind the effector cell death proteases caspase-3 and -7 in vitro and inhibits caspase activity and cell death in cells exposed to diverse apoptotic stimuli. Although quantitative differences may exist, these observations suggest commonality in the mechanisms used by IAP-family proteins to suppress apoptosis.
Transcriptional regulators of the lysR family largely control the expression of bacterial symbiotic genes. Rhizobium sp. NGR234 contains at least four members of this family: two resemble nodD, while two others are more closely related to syrM. Part of the extremely broad host range of NGR234 can be attributed to nodD1, although the second gene shares a high degree of DNA sequence homology with nodD2 of R. fredii USDA191. A nodD2 mutant of NGR234 was constructed by insertional mutagenesis. This mutant (NGR omega nodD2) was deficient in nitrogen fixation on Vigna unguiculata and induced pseudonodules on Tephrosia vogelii. Several other host plants were tested, but no correlation could be drawn between the phenotype and nodule morphology. Moreover, nodD2 has a negative effect on the production of Nod factors: mutation of this gene results in a fivefold increase in Nod factor production. Surprisingly, while the structure of Nod factors from free-living cultures of NGR omega nodD2 remained unchanged, those from V. unguiculata nodules induced by the same strain are non-fucosylated and have a lower degree of oligomerization. In other words, developmental regulation of Nod factor production is also abolished in this mutant. Competitive RNA hybridizations, gene fusions and mobility shift assays confirmed that nodD2 downregulates expression of the nodABC operon.
Vacuolar proton-translocating inorganic pyrophosphatase and H(+)-ATPase acidify the vacuoles and power the vacuolar secondary active transport systems in plants. Developmental changes in the transcription of the pyrophosphatase in growing hypocotyls of mung bean (Vigna radiata) were investigated. The cDNA clone for the mung bean enzyme contains an uninterrupted open reading frame of 2298 bp, coding for a polypeptide of 766 amino acids. Hypocotyls were divided into elongating and mature regions. RNA analysis revealed that the transcript level of the pyrophosphatase was high in the elongating region of the 3-d-old hypocotyl but was extremely low in the mature region of the 5-d-old hypocotyl. The level of transcript of the 68-kD subunit of H(+)-ATPase also decreased after cell maturation. In the elongating region, the proton-pumping activity of pyrophosphatase on the basis of membrane protein was 3 times higher than that of H(+)-ATPase. After cell maturation, the pyrophosphatase activity decreased to 30% of that in the elongating region. The decline in the pyrophosphatase activity was in parallel with a decrease in the enzyme protein content. These findings indicate that the level of the pyrophosphatase, a main vacuolar proton pump in growing cells, is negatively regulated after cell maturation at the transcriptional level.
A cDNA clone encoding a daylily (Hemerocallis spp.) thiolprotease (SEN11), whose expression is strongly upregulated in flower tepal senescence, has been isolated. The amino acid sequence, deduced from the nucleotide sequence, showed highest similarity to plant thiolproteases of Vigna mungo, Phaseolus vulgaris and Hemerocallis (SEN102), and contains a putative ER retention signal that has been described in Vigna mungo. SEN102 and SEN11 transcripts were not detectable in flower buds at the opening stage, but two peaks of transcripts were seen after 9 h and 19 h, in both petals and sepals, when wilting symptoms were apparent. The pattern of protease activity migrating on a 26.3 kDa protein was similar to the SEN102 and SEN11 transcript profiles. These two genes were also expressed in stamens and leaves, but their transcripts were undetectable in carpels and rhizomes. The expression of SEN102 was lower in the senescent leaf than in the green leaf. The pattern of expression of these genes suggests their involvement in the protein hydrolysis occurring in tepals at the late senescence stage, whereas in leaves they could be involved in the constitutive protein turnover machinery. Exogenous gibberellic acid application to cut flowers increased transcripts of both genes.
Differential screening, aimed at the isolation of cDNA clones of mRNAs whose accumulation is influenced by GA3, resulted in the isolation of a cDNA clone of an mRNA whose level was decreased by GA3 in segments of epicotyls of Vigna angularis. The putative protein encoded by this cDNA resembled the 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate oxidases (ACC oxidases) identified in other plant species (about 80% homology at the amino acid level). Thus, the corresponding gene was designated AB-ACO1 (azuki bean ACC oxidase). GA3 also decreased the activity of ACC oxidase in azuki bean epicotyls, but it did not decrease the rate of ethylene evolution. In fact, GA3 increased the rate of ethylene evolution and the level of ACC. Thus, GA3 seemed to increase the production of ethylene by promoting the synthesis of ACC.
Proteinase A is a papain-like cysteine endopeptidase of vetch (Vicia sativa L.) which was assumed to initiate storage-globulin breakdown just after the onset of seed germination. This enzyme was purified from cotyledons of vetch seedlings. On gelatin-containg SDS gels, active proteinase A migrated with an apparent molecular mass of 21 kDa, whereas after heat denaturation its molecular size on SDS/PAGE was 29 kDa. Although proteinase A is capable of hydrolyzing storage globulins in vitro it could not be localized in the protein-body fraction of cotyledons from germinating seeds. cDNA clones encoding proteinase A precursor have been obtained by PCR. The precursor is composed of an N-terminal signal sequence followed by a propeptide, the region encoding mature proteinase A, and a C-terminal KDEL sequence. Mature proteinase A with a derived molecular mass of 25,244 Da does not have the KDEL sequence. The derived amino acid sequence of the proteinase A precursor is 78.2% identical to sulfhydryl-endopeptidase (SH-EP), a cysteine endopeptidase from germinating Vigna mungo seedlings. Northern blot analysis indicated that proteinase A mRNA appears de novo in cotyledons of 1-day-germinated vetch seeds, where its amount increases up to day 6. No proteinase A mRNA was detected in other vetch organs, not even in the embryo axis, which contains stored globulins. By means of antibodies raised against the purified and against recombinantly produced proteinase A, the 29-kDa bands of mature proteinase A were detected in cotyledon extracts of 6-day-germinated seeds when globulin degradation has already far proceeded. The reported data do not agree with the proposed triggering role of proteinase A in storage-globulin breakdown during germination.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) nodules contain three leghemoglobins (LbI, LbII, and LbIII) that are encoded by at least two genes. We have cloned and sequenced the gene that encodes for LbII (lbII), the most abundant Lb in cowpea nodules, using total DNA as the template for PCR. Primers were designed using the sequence of the soybean lbc gene. The lbII gene is 679 bp in length and codes for a predicted protein of 145 amino acids. Using sequences of the cowpea lbII gene for the synthesis of primers and total nodule RNA as the template, we cloned a cDNA for LbII into a constitutive expression vector (pEMBL19+) and then expressed it in Escherichia coli. Recombinant LbII (rLbII) and native LbII (nLbII) from cowpea nodules were purified to homogeneity using standard techniques. Properties of rLbII were compared with nLbII by partially sequencing the proteins and by sodium dodecyl sulfate- and isoelectric focusing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, western-blot analysis using anti-soybean Lba antibodies, tryptic and chymotryptic mapping, and spectrophotometric techniques. The data showed that the structural and spectral characteristics of rLbII and nLbII were similar. The rLbII was reversibly oxygenated/deoxygenated, showing that it is a functional hemoglobin.
Chalcone synthase (CHS) of Vigna unguiculata is encoded by a gene family that is abundantly transcribed in leaves and nodules. Inoculation with Rhizobium sp. NGR234, which nodulates V. unguiculata, or with NGR delta nodABC, a mutant deficient in Nod factor production, induced rapid accumulation of CHS mRNAs in roots and root hairs. As both Nod+ and Nod- bacteria provoke responses, induction of CHS gene expression may involve symbiotic or defense responses. Four days after inoculation with the wild-type Rhizobium sp., the transcript levels increased in roots but decreased in root hairs. Use of a region unique to the 5' end of a specific CHS gene (VuCHS1) showed that increases of transcript levels in root hairs 24 h after inoculation with both rhizobia were specific to this gene. Transcripts of this gene in roots were only detectable 4 days after treatment with NGR234. It is possible therefore that accumulation of VuCHS1 follows the infection pathway of rhizobia entering legume roots. Purified Nod factors induced accumulation of transcripts, showing that they might be part of the signal transduction pathway leading to CHS expression.
We have isolated four cDNA clones of ACC synthase from etiolated mungbean seedlings treated with auxin. pVR-ACS2, pVR-ACS3 and pVR-ACS6 contained the same sequences as the previously reported DNA fragments, pMAC2, pMAC3 (Botella et al. 1992b) and pMBA1 (Kim et al. 1992), respectively. pVR-ACS1 was identical with pAIM-1 (Botella et al. 1992a). VR-ACS6 was specifically induced in response to the auxin signal. The IAA-induction of VR-ACS6 was very rapid (within 30 min) and insensitive to cycloheximide treatment at concentrations up to 100 microM. Significant accumulation of VR-ACS6 mRNA was detected at 1 microM IAA. The IAA-induced expression of VR-ACS6 was suppressed by ABA and ethylene, but enhanced by BA. These characteristics of VR-ACS6 expression were well correlated with the physiological data of auxin-induced ethylene production in mungbean hypocotyls. VR-ACS1 was strongly induced by cycloheximide, but was found to be not auxin-specific. Inhibitors of either ethylene biosynthesis (AOA) or action (NBD) increased the basal level of VR-ACS1 mRNA.
A cDNA for delta1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) synthetase (cOsP5CS), an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of proline, was isolated and characterized from a cDNA library prepared from 14-day-old seedlings of Oryza sativa cv. Akibare. The deduced amino acid sequence of the P5CS protein (OsP5CS) from O. sativa exhibited 74.2% and 75.5% homology to that of the P5CS from Arabidopsis thaliana and Vigna aconitifolia, respectively. Northern blot analysis revealed that the gene for P5CS (OsP5CS) was induced by high salt, dehydration, treatment of ABA and cold treatment, while it was not induced by heat treatment. Simultaneously, accumulation of proline was observed as a result of high salt treatment in O. sativa. Moreover, the levels of expression of OsP5CS mRNA and content of proline under salt stress condition were compared between a salt-tolerant cultivar, Dee-gee-woo-gen (DGWG) and a salt-sensitive breeding line, IR28. It was observed that the expression of the P5CS gene and the accumulation of proline in DGWG steadily increased, whereas those in IR28 increased slightly.
Three cDNAs (ext3, ext127, and ext26), originally isolated by differential screening from a root-hair cDNA library of Vigna unguiculata, were found to encode extensin-like cell wall proteins. Transcripts homologous to these cDNAs were only detected in root hairs where mRNA levels decreased 1 day after inoculation with rhizobia. This coincided with the onset of root-hair deformation, the first morphological step in the Rhizobium-legume interaction. Decreases in transcript levels following inoculation with wild-type Rhizobium sp. NGR234 were more pronounced than with NGR delta nodABC, a mutant deficient in Nod-factor production. Inoculation with a rhizobial strain carrying a mutation in a gene encoding a transcriptional activator for nod genes (NGR delta nodD1) did not repress mRNA levels, indicating that a second nodulation signal may be present that is nodD dependent. Application of purified NodNGR factors only affected transcript levels of ext3. The genomic locus of the gene homologous to ext26 (Ext26G) was cloned. In the 5' flanking region, several potential TATA boxes and CAP signals were identified. Part of the promoter region shares homology with the Pisum sativum seed lectin promoter and the Nicotiana tabacum nitrate reductase promoter region. Nonetheless, the function of these homologous regions in gene regulation is unknown.
Ten cDNAs of genes that were induced by dehydration stress were cloned by differential screening from the highly drought-tolerant legume, cowpea (Vigna unguiculata), a major crop in West Africa. The clones were collectively named CPRD (cowpea clones responsive to dehydration). Northern blot analysis revealed that nine of the CPRD genes were induced by dehydration stress, but the timing of induction of mRNA synthesis varied among the CPRD genes. We analyzed the effects of other environmental stresses on the expression of the CPRD8, CPRD14 and CPRD22 genes, and we found that these genes were strongly induced by high-salinity stress but not by cold or heat stress. Drought-stressed cowpea plants accumulated abscisic acid (ABA) to a level that was 160 times higher than that in unstressed plants. The CPRD8 and CPRD22 genes were induced to a significant extent by the application of exogenous ABA but the CPRD14 gene was not. These results indicate the existence of at least two signal-transduction pathways between the detection of water stress and the expression of CPRD genes in cowpea. Sequence analysis of CPRD8 and CPRD22 cDNAs revealed that they encoded putative proteins that were related to old yellow enzyme and group 2 LEA proteins, respectively. The protein encoded by CPRD14 exhibited sequence homology to dihydroflavonol-4-reductase (DFR) and vestitone reductase (VR). Old yellow enzyme, DFR and VR have not been identified as drought-inducible proteins in other plants, whereas LEA genes have been well characterized as drought-inducible genes. The various gene products might function to protect cells from environmental stress.
The objectives of this study were to use molecular markers to: (1) identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) controlling seed-weight in soybean, (2) characterize the genetic basis of seed-weight expression, and (3) determine whether soybean shares orthologous seed-weight genes with cowpea and/or mung bean. An F2 population was developed between a large-seeded Glycine max breeding line and a small-seeded G. soja plant introduction. DNA samples from 150 F2 individuals were analyzed with 91 polymorphic genetic markers, including RFLPs, RAPDs and SSRs. Seed-weight was analyzed by randomly sampling 100 seeds from each of 150 greenhouse-grown F2 individuals, and their 150 F2∶3 lines, from a replicated field trial. Markers associated with seed-weight were identified using the computer program MapMaker-QTL and a one-way analysis of variance. Three and five markers were significantly associated with seed-weight variation (P<0.01) in the F2 and F2∶3 generations, respectively. Tests for digenic epistasis revealed three significant interactions in both generations. In a combined analysis, these markers and interactions explained 50 and 60% of the phenotypic variation for seed-weight in the F2 and F2∶3 generations, respectively. Comparison of our results in soybean (Glycine) with those previously reported in cowpea and mung bean (Vigna) indicated that soybean and cowpea share an orthologous seed-weight gene. In both species, a genomic region significantly associated with seed-weight spanned the same RFLP markers in the same linkage order. A significant digenic interaction involving this genomic region was conserved in all three species. These results suggest that the exploitation of "comparative QTL mapping" is an invaluable tool for quantitative geneticists working with poorly characterized plant systems.
A cDNA clone encoding a pectinacetylesterase (PAE) was isolated from 3-day-old mung bean seedlings using PCR-based techniques. Degenerate oligonucleotide primers were designed according to the N-terminus and internal peptides from the purified PAE. The full-length clone of 1453 bp codes for a signal peptide of 24 amino acids and a mature protein of 375 amino acids. The Mr and the pI of the cDNA-deduced amino acid sequence agree with the values estimated for the purified enzyme. No significant sequence identity between the PAE and any known protein could be found in the databases. Northern analysis revealed developmentally regulated expression of the mRNA in mung been seedlings.
The barley cysteine proteinase B (EPB) is the main protease responsible for the degradation of endosperm storage proteins providing nitrogenous nutrients to support the growth of young seedlings. The expression of this enzyme is induced in the germinating seeds by the phytohormone, gibberellin, and suppressed by another phytohormone, abscisic acid. In situ hybridization experiments indicate that EPB is expressed in the scutellar epithelium within 24 h of seed germination, but the aleurone tissue surrounding the starchy endosperm eventually becomes the main tissue expressing this enzyme. The EPB gene family of barley consists of two very similar genes, EPB1 and EPB2, both of which have been mapped to chromosome 3. The sequences of EPB1 and EPB2 match with the two previously published cDNA clones indicating that both genes are expressed. Interestingly, neither of these genes contain any introns, a rare phenomenon in which all members of a small gene family are active intronless genes. Sequence comparison indicates that the barley EPB family can be classified as cathepsin L-like endopeptidases and is most closely related to two legume cysteine proteinases (Phaseolus vulgaris EP-C1 and Vigna mungo SHEP) which are also involved in seed storage protein degradation. The promoters of EPB1 and EPB2 have been linked to the coding sequence of a reporter gene, GUS, encoding beta-glucuronidase, and introduced into barley aleurone cells using the particle bombardment method. Transient expression studies indicate that EPB promoters are sufficient to confer the hormonal regulation of these genes.
The common nodulation locus and closely linked nodulation genes of Bradyrhizobium (Arachis) sp. strain NC92 have been isolated on an 11.0-kb EcoRI restriction fragment. The nucleotide sequence of a 7.0-kb EcoRV-EcoRI subclone was determined and found to contain open reading frames (ORFs) homologous to the nodA, nodB, nodD1, nodD2, and nolA genes of Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Bradyrhizobium elkanii. Nodulation assays of nodD1, nodD2, or nolA deletion mutants on the host plants Macroptilium atropurpureum (siratro) and Vigna unguiculata (cowpea) indicate that nolA is required for efficient nodulation, as nolA mutants exhibit a 6-day nodulation delay and reduced nodule numbers. The nolA phenotype was complemented by providing the nolA ORF in trans, indicating that the phenotype is due to the lack of the nolA ORF. nodD1 mutants displayed a 2-day nodulation delay, whereas nodD2 strains were indistinguishable from the wild type. Translational nodA-lacZ, nodD1-lacZ, nodD2-lacZ, and nolA-lacZ fusions were created. Expression of the nodA-lacZ fusion was induced by the addition of peanut, cowpea, and siratro seed exudates and by the addition of the isoflavonoids genistein and daidzein. In a nodD1 or nodD2 background, basal expression of the nodA-lacZ fusion increased two- to threefold. The level of expression of the nodD2-lacZ and nolA-lacZ fusions was low in the wild type but increased in nodD1, nodD2, and nodD1 nodD2 backgrounds independently of the addition of the inducer genistein. nolA was required for increased expression of the nodD2-lacZ fusion. These data suggest that a common factor is involved in the regulation of nodD2 and nolA, and they are also consistent with a model of nod gene expression in Bradyrhizobium (Arachis) sp. strain NC92 in which negative regulation is mediated by the products of the nodD1 and nodD2 genes.
Protein kinases are important in eukaryotic signal transduction pathways. In this study we designed degenerate oligonucleotides corresponding to two conserved regions of protein kinases and using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) have amplified a 141 bp fragment of DNA from mungbeans (Vigna radiata Rwilcz cv. Berken). Sequence analysis of the PCR products indicates that they encode several putative protein kinases with respect to their identity with other known plant protein kinases. Using one of the six fragments (CPK3-8), we isolated a 2022 bp cDNA (VrCDPK-1) from a Vigna radiata lambda gt11 library. VrCDPK-1 has a 96 bp 5'-untranslated region and a 465 bp 3'-untranslated region and an open reading frame of 1461 bp. VrCDPK-1 contains all of the conserved regions commonly found in calcium dependent protein kinases (CDPK). VrCDPK-1 shares 24 to 89% sequence identity with previously reported sequences for plant CDPKs at the protein level. Southern analysis revealed the presence of several copies of the CDPK gene. VrCDPK-1 expression was stimulated when mungbean cuttings were treated with CaCl2, while treatment with MgCl2 had no effect. We are reporting for the first time a CDPK gene in mungbean which is inducible by mechanical strain. Cuttings treated with indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) or subjected to salt stress showed an increase in VrCDPK-1 expression. There was a dramatic stimulation in VrCDPK-1 expression 6 h after cuttings were treated with cycloheximide.
Transformed Vigna mungo (blackgram) calli were obtained by cocultivating segments of primary leaves with Agrobacterium tumefaciens vir helper strains harbouring the binary vector pGA472 having kanamycin resistance gene as plant transformation marker. Transformed calli were selected on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 50 mg/l kanamycin and 500 mg/l carbenicillin. Transformed calli were found to be resistant to kanamycin up to 900 mg/l concentration. Expression of kanamycin resistance gene in transformed calli was demonstrated by neomycin phosphotransferase assay. Stable integration of transferred DNA into V. mungo genome was confirmed by Southern blot analysis.
Cysteine endopeptidases, SH-EP from Vigna mungo and EP-C1 from Phaseolus vulgaris, act to degrade seed storage protein during seed germination. Using transgenic tobacco plants, expression of SH-EP and promoter activity of the EP-C1 gene were analyzed in transgenic tobacco plants. The promoters of the two genes in tobacco seeds showed germination-specific activation, although post-translational processing of SH-EP and regulatory regions of promoter of the gene for EP-C1 were found to differ between leguminous seeds and transgenic tobacco seeds.
An auxin-regulated calmodulin cDNA (arCaM) were isolated by differential screening from a mung bean (Vigna radiata) cDNA library. The expression of the arCaM transcript in the etiolated mung bean hypocotyl was examined by RNA gel blot analysis. The arCaM transcript was induced depending on indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) concentrations. An increase in level of the arCaM transcript upon treatment of hypocotyl segments with 10 microM IAA was detected after 1 h and a maximum level was detected at 2 h. Induction of the arCaM transcript occurred upon treatment with 10 microM 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or naphthalene-1-acetic acid (NAA) as well as with IAA, while treatment with 10 microM p-chlorophenoxyisobutyric acid (PCIB) as an anti-auxin, prevented the induction. Ethylene did not have any effect. Other stress conditions, such as exposure to salt stress, heavy metal ions and heat shock, also had no effect on the induction. The levels of the arCaM transcript in leaves of light-grown mung bean plants treated with IAA showed steady but small increases with time.
A full-length cDNA and the corresponding At-P5S gene encoding the first enzyme of the proline biosynthetic pathway, the delta 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) synthetase, were isolated in Arabidopsis thaliana. The At-P5S cDNA encodes a protein of 717 amino acids showing high identity with the P5C synthetase of Vigna aconitifolia. Strong homology is also found at the N-terminus to bacterial and yeast gamma-glutamyl kinase and at the C-terminus to bacterial gamma-glutamyl phosphate reductase. Putative ATP- and NAD(P)H-binding sites are suggested in the At-P5S protein. The transcribed region of the At-P5S gene is 4.8 kb long and contains 20 exons. Southern analysis suggests the presence of only one At-P5S gene in the A. thaliana genome mapped at the bottom of the chromosome two. Expression analysis of At-P5S in different organs reveals abundant At-P5S transcripts in mature flowering plant. Rapid induction of the At-P5S gene followed by accumulation of proline was observed in NaCl-treated seedlings suggesting that At-P5S is osmoregulated.
The isolation and characterization is reported of a cDNA for delta 1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C) synthetase (cAtP5CS), an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of proline, from a cDNA library prepared from a dehydrated rosette plant of Arabidopsis thaliana. Southern blot analysis suggested that only one copy of the corresponding gene (AtP5CS) is present in A. thaliana. The deduced amino acid sequence of the P5CS protein (AtP5CS) from A. thaliana exhibited 74% homology to that of the P5CS from Vigna aconitifolia. Northern blot analysis revealed that the gene for P5CS was induced by dehydration, high salt and treatment with ABA, while it was not induced by heat or cold treatment. Moreover, the simultaneous accumulation of proline was observed as a result of the former treatments in A. thaliana. A cDNA for P5C reductase (cAtP5CR) was also isolated from A. thaliana and Northern blot analysis was performed. The AtP5CR gene was not induced to a significant extent by dehydration or high-salt stress. These observations suggest that the AtP5CS gene plays a principal role in the biosynthesis of proline in A. thaliana under osmotic stress.
Ethylene production is observed in all higher plants, where it is involved in numerous aspects of growth, development, and senescence. 1-Aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid synthase (ACC synthase; S-adenosyl-L-methionine methylthioadenosine-lyase, EC 4.4.1.14) is the key regulatory enzyme in the ethylene biosynthetic pathway. We are reporting an ACC synthase gene in Vigna radiata (mung bean) that is inducible by mechanical strain. The ACC synthase cDNA AIM-1 was induced by mechanical strain within 10 min, reaching a maximum at 30 min, showing a dramatic reduction after 60 min, and showing no detectable message by 3 hr. The kinetics of induction for AIM-1 was similar to a mechanical strain-induced calmodulin (MBCaM-1) in V. radiata, whereas the kinetics of its decline from maximum was different. When plants were subjected to calcium-deficient conditions, supplemental calcium, calcium chelators, calcium storage releasers, calcium ionophore, or calmodulin antagonists, there was no effect on AIM-1, indicating that the mechanical strain-induced AIM-1 expression is a calcium-independent process. Induction of MBCaM-1 in all cases behaved in the same way as AIM-1, suggesting that they share similar mechanically activated cis- and/or trans-acting elements in their promoter.
Soybean (Glycine max) and mothbean (Vigna aconitifolia) cDNA clones encoding glutamine phosphoribosylpyrophosphate amidotransferase (PRAT), the first enzyme of the de novo purine biosynthesis pathway, have been isolated from nodule cDNA libraries. The amino acid sequence deduced from soybean clone showed > 85% homology to the PRAT sequence of mothbean and 33-47% homology to those of bacteria, yeast, chicken, rat and human. The soybean clone encodes a protein with an N-terminal sequence resembling a plastid-targeting peptide. Downstream from this peptide is a sequence similar to the 11 amino acid propeptide found in the Bacillus subtilis, chicken, rat and human PRAT proteins. The mothbean cDNA, although lacking most of the plastid presequence, encodes the putative propeptide and efficiently complements purine auxotrophy in an Escherichia coli purF mutant. Both the soybean and mothbean clones encode characteristic cysteine residues that are known to be involved in the assembly of a [Fe-S] cluster near the C-terminus of this protein. Levels of PRAT mRNA in mothbean nodules were found to increase steadily as the nodules matured from 13 days to 23 days. PRAT mRNA was not detectable in uninfected root tissue but a low level of transcript was detected in leaves. Treatment of uninfected root with L-glutamine induced the PRAT mRNA transcript suggesting that glutamine produced as a result of assimilation of fixed nitrogen is funnelled into the de novo purine biosynthesis and controls the expression of this pathway in root nodules.
A single copy of the alpha-amylase gene, composed of three introns and four exons, was found in Vigna mungo. Examination of levels of alpha-amylase and its mRNA in detached cotyledons indicated that attachment of the embryonic axis is not required for expression of the gene in cotyledons of germinating seeds.
A cDNA library was constructed from RNA of Vigna unguiculata root hairs harvested 1 day and 4 days after inoculation with Rhizobium sp. NGR234. A heterologous probe was used to identify a cDNA clone, the predicted 99-amino-acid sequence of which shares homology with a nonspecific lipid transfer protein (LTP) of Hordeum vulgare. Other characteristics, including an estimated molecular weight of 10.4 kD, an isoelectric point of 8.6, and a signal peptide with a hydrophobic region at the amino-terminal end, are shared by most LTPs. A transcript of 630 nt was found in all tissues tested, except nodules. Levels of mRNA increased in root hairs 24 hr after treatment with Rhizobium sp. NGR234, with different hormones, or with Nod factors. Amounts of transcripts were dependent on the concentration of Nod factors. Accumulation of transcripts during nodule development correlated with root hair deformation, the first visible step in the Rhizobium-legume symbiosis.
Genetic changes in the development of endometrial carcinoma have not been characterized, and little is known of tumor or metastatic suppressor gene status in these malignancies. The current study on endometrioid carcinoma was undertaken to examine the status of two tumor suppressor genes that frequently have been found to be altered in human malignancies (the p53 gene and the retinoblastoma [Rb] gene) and to examine the status of the candidate metastatic suppressor gene, nm23-H1. The status of the p53 gene was studied by immunohistochemistry of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded biopsy samples from 72 patients with atypical endometrial hyperplasia or endometrioid carcinoma who underwent hysterectomy immediately after biopsy and from 5 patients with benign endometria. A search for loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of the nm23 gene after DNA extraction from frozen tissues and hybridization with nm23-H1 cDNA specific probe was made in 10 endometrial carcinomas. Rb gene status was evaluated by image analysis quantification of immunoreactive retinoblastoma protein in frozen sections of 10 carcinomas and 2 benign endometria. p53 expression was low in all benign endometria, but high expression was found in 2 (15%) of 13 atypical hyperplasias and in 23 (39%) of 59 carcinomas. High levels of p53 expression in endometrioid carcinoma correlated with the spread of disease outside of the uterus and by logistic regression, the presence of squamous differentiation, nuclear grade, and high p53 expression in the biopsy all independently correlated with spread of disease outside of the uterus. Although 7 of the 10 carcinomas studied were informative, LOH for the nm23 gene was not seen in any, including a site of metastasis. Rb protein expression in endometrial carcinoma was similar to expression in benign endometria. Although this study found no evidence of nm23-H1 gene alteration or alterations in Rb protein levels in endometrial carcinoma, high expression of p53 protein was sporadically identified in biopsy specimens of atypical hyperplasia and frequently found in endometrioid carcinomas. Determination of p53 expression in combination with the presence or absence of squamous differentiation and nuclear grade in biopsy material may help predict spread of endometrioid carcinoma outside the uterus and facilitate therapeutic planning before hysterectomy.
Two different calmodulin (CaM) cDNAs (MBCaM-1 and MBCaM-2) were isolated from a vigna radiata lambda gt11 library by screening with a heterologous Arabidopsis cDNA probe (TCH-1). Both cDNAs are 85% homologous inside the coding region but are highly divergent outside this region. The polypeptides encoded by MBCaM-1 and MBCaM-2 are identical except for two conservative substitutions at positions 7 and 10. Southern analysis revealed that both cDNAs are encoded by different genes. Expression studies revealed different patterns of expression of both genes. MBCaM-1 mRNA exhibited a dramatic transient increase in response to touch, while MBCaM-2 expression showed a steady but small increase as compared to MBCaM-1. When plants were grown in complete darkness MBCaM-1 was undetectable and MBCaM-2 exhibited very low levels of expression. One hour after exposure of etiolated seedlings to light MBCaM-1 showed no change, while MBCaM-2 expression was increased. After a 6 h exposure to light there was an induction of both MBCaM-1 and MBCaM-2; however, the magnitude of this increase was much greater for MBCaM-2. When plants were grown under a 16 h light/8 h dark cycle the mRNA levels for MBCaM-1 were lower during the light period and increased during the beginning of the night cycle, while MBCaM-2 showed no change. Plants treated with indole-3-acetic acid had a peak in MBCaM-1 expression 6 h after treatment initiation with a slight decline 3 h after the peak, while MBCaM-2 showed a steady but small increase over time as compared to MBCaM-1. When plants were subjected to salt stress they showed an increase in MBCaM-1 expression 2 h after treatment initiation reaching a maximum after 4 h with no further increase after 6 h, while MBCaM-2 remained unchanged over the time course.
Nodules of tropical legumes generally export symbiotically fixed nitrogen in the form of ureides that are produced by oxidation of de novo synthesized purines. To investigate the regulation of de novo purine biosynthesis in these nodules, we have isolated cDNA clones encoding 5-aminoimidazole ribonucleotide (AIR) carboxylase and 5-aminoimidazole-4-N-succinocarboxamide ribonucleotide (SAICAR) synthetase from a mothbean (Vigna aconitifolia) nodule cDNA library by complementation of Escherichia coli purE and purC mutants, respectively. Sequencing of these clones revealed that the two enzymes are distinct proteins in mothbean, unlike in animals where both activities are associated with a single bifunctional polypeptide. As is the case in yeast, the mothbean AIR carboxylase has a N-terminal domain homologous to the eubacterial purK gene product. This PurK-like domain appears to facilitate the binding of CO2 and is dispensable in the presence of high CO2 concentrations. Because the expression of the mothbean PurE cDNA clone in E. coli apparently generates a truncated polypeptide lacking at least 140 N-terminal amino acids, this N-terminal region of the enzyme may not be essential for its CO2-binding activity.
By screening a mung bean (Vigna radiata L.) hypocotyl cDNA library using a combination of apple (pAE12) and tomato (pTOM13) 1-aminocyclopropane 1-carboxylate (ACC)-oxidase cDNAs as probes, putative ACC-oxidase clones were isolated. Based on restriction-enzyme map and DNA-sequencing analyses, they can be divided into two homology classes, represented by pVR-ACO1 and pVR-ACO2. While pVR-ACO1 and pVR-ACO2 exhibit close homology in their coding regions, their 3'-noncoding regions are divergent. pVR-ACO1 is a 1312-bp full-length clone and contains a single open reading frame encoding 317 amino acids (MW = 35.8 kDa), while pVR-ACO2 is 1172 bp long and is a partial cDNA clone encoding 308 amino acids. These two deduced amino-acid sequences share 83% identity, and display considerable sequence conservation (73-86%) to other ACC oxidases from various plant species. Northern blot analyses of RNAs isolated from hypocotyl, leaf, and stem tissues using gene-specific probes indicate that the pVR-ACO1 transcript is present in all parts of the seedling and that the expression in hypocotyls is further increased following excision. The maximum induction of ACC-oxidase transcripts occurred at about 6 h after excision, while the maximum enzyme activity was observed at 24 h. When excised hypocotyls were treated with ethylene a further enhanced level of transcripts was observed. Aminooxyacetic acid, an inhibitor of ACC-synthase activity, and 2,5-norbornadiene, an inhibitor of ethylene action, suppressed the wound-induced accumulation of ACC-oxidase mRNA, while an addition of ethylene in these tissues restored the accumulation of ACC-oxidase mRNA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The amino-acid sequence deduced from the nucleotide sequence of an auxin-regulated gene, ARG1, isolated from auxin-treated sections of mung-bean hypocotyls (Yamamoto et al. 1992, Plant Cell Physiol. 33, 13-20), is 69% identical to that of a delta 15 fatty-acid desaturase from Brassica napus L. that is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum. The ARG1 message is present at high levels in the hook portion of the hypocotyl, the plumule and the root tip of 3-d-old etiolated seedlings. The amino-acid sequence encoded by another auxin-regulated gene, ARG2, is 39% identical to that of an atypical late-embryogenesis-abundant (LEA) protein of cotton, LEA5-A. The ARG2 message is localized in the upper part of hypocotyls. Its abundance increases upon treatment of hypocotyl sections with fusicoccin, as well as with auxin. Determination of the distribution and kinetics of induction of mRNAs transcribed from the five auxin-regulated genes of mung bean, which include Aux22s and SAUR as well as ARG1 and ARG2, shows that they are heterogeneous in their mode of gene expression. The physiological implications of the homology between the two auxin-regulated genes and the genes for previously identified proteins are discussed in the context of auxin-induced elongation of the hypocotyl.
The two-component regulatory system Nod-VW of Bradyrhizobium japonicum is essential for the nodulation of the legume host plants Vigna radiata, V. unguiculata and Macroptilium atropurpureum. The NodV protein shares homology with the sensor-kinases, whereas the NodW protein is a member of the response-regulator class. We report here the identification of a new B. japonicum DNA region that is able to suppress the phenotypic defect of a nodW mutant, provided that this region is expressed from a foreign promoter. The minimal complementing region, which itself is not essential for nodulation in a nodW+ background, consists of one gene designated nwsB (nodW-suppressor). The deduced amino acid sequence of the nwsB gene product shows a high degree of homology to NodW. The nws B gene is preceded by a long open reading frame, nwsA, whose putative product appears to be a sensor-kinase. Downstream of nwsB, an open reading frame encoding a second putative response-regulator was identified. Interspecies hybridization revealed the presence of nwsAB-like DNA also in other Bradyrhizobium strains. Using nwsB'-'lacZ fusions, the nwsB gene was found to be expressed rather weakly in B. japonicum. This low level of expression is obviously not sufficient to compensate for a nodW- defect, whereas strong overexpression of nwsB is a condition that leads to suppression of the nodW- mutation.
This study describes the nascent RNA-binding protein of the pea chloroplast transcriptional complex. The protein has been identified by photoaffinity labelling of the transcriptionally active chromosome (TAC) which utilizes the endogenous plastid DNA as template. UV irradiation of lysed chloroplast or the isolated TAC under conditions optimized for transcription photocross-links nascent radiolabelled transcripts (up to 250 nucleotides in length) to a 48 kDa protein. The photoaffinity labelling of the transcript-binding protein is dependent on UV irradiation, is maximal after about 30 min of irradiation, and is completely dependent on transcriptional activity; no cross-linkage has been observed with pre-synthesized RNA. Cross-linkage is influenced by salts and inhibitors in accordance with their effects on transcription. The photoconjugate is composed of protein and RNA moieties, and can be hydrolysed by several proteases. However, the cross-linked transcript is protected from nucleases until the protein is removed. Manganese enhances photoaffinity labelling of the transcript-binding protein, and this is paralleled by an increase in total transcriptional activity of TAC. This protein was isolated by 2-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the sequence of 15 amino acid residues at the amino terminus was determined. The nascent transcript-binding protein appears to be involved in the transcription of all three classes of chloroplast genes. We also found a polypeptide of identical molecular weight to get cross-linked to nascent transcripts in chloroplasts isolated from other legumes such as Cicer arietenum, Vigna radiata and Phaseolus vulgaris, and monocots like Zea mays, Oryza sativa and Pennisetum americanum.
Pancreatic weights and composition were studied with rats fed diets containing raw legume seeds for up to 800 d. Rapid pancreatic enlargement was induced by dietary soybeans (Glycine max) (high Kunitz and Bowman-Birk trypsin inhibitor contents, moderate lectin content) during the initial 150 d. Over the next 200 d the rate of pancreatic growth was similar to that in controls. After 350 d a second period of rapid pancreatic growth occurred. Macroscopic pancreatic nodules were evident in a number of rats fed soybeans for 500 d or more. A similar pattern of pancreatic growth was observed in rats fed dietary cowpeas (Vigna unguiculata) (high Bowman-Birk inhibitor content, low lectin content). Extensive pancreatic growth was also found in young rats fed moderate dietary levels of kidney beans (Phaseolus vulgaris) (low Bowman-Birk inhibitor content, high lectin content). However, the trophic effects diminished with time, and from 100 d onwards, little enlargement was evident. Consumption of a lupinseed (Lupinus angustifolius) diet (low trypsin inhibitor, low lectin content) did not cause pancreatic enlargement. The initial pancreatic growth induced by dietary soybeans seemed to be due to the lectins and trypsin inhibitors, whereas the second period of pancreatic growth was possibly due primarily to the trypsin inhibitors.
The iron storage protein, ferritin, in plants can occur in multiple molecular forms that, until now, were proposed to be derived from degradation of a single mature polypeptide subunit (2,7,17), which is assembled into the holoprotein and functions in plastids. We have carried out some definitive experiments with the diploid legume, Vigna unguiculata (cowpeas), which show that there are functioning genes for three different ferritin subunits in the developing leaves. Unique segments of mRNAs which code for subunits with substantially different mature sequences were detected by PCR. Separate genes for each subunit were found by showing that each gene contained a unique intron. Thus, multiple molecular forms of ferritin can arise through differential expression of a family of genes in plants.
A nodulin-35 (N-35) cDNA encoding nodule-specific uricase (EC 1.7.3.3.) was isolated from a Vigna aconitifolia (mothbean) root nodule cDNA library. Sequence analysis of Vigna uricase (VN-35) cDNA revealed 90% homology to that of soybean. The VN-35 cDNA was inserted in the antisense orientation downstream of the caMV-35S promoter, and transgenic hairy roots were formed on Vigna plants using Agrobacterium rhizogenes. Infection with Bradyrhizobium (cowpea) gave rise to root nodules on transgenic hairy roots supported by the wild-type shoot. Expression of antisense VN-35 RNA was detected in transgenic nodules on individual roots using polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The nodules expressing antisense VN-35 RNA were smaller in size and showed lower uricase activity than nodules formed on the hairy roots transformed with a binary vector containing beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene (used as control), and the plants exhibited nitrogen deficiency symptoms. Ultrastructural analysis and immunogold labeling with antibody against soybean N-35 revealed that the growth of peroxisomes was retarded in transgenic nodules expressing antisense VN-35 RNA. These data suggest that a reduction in ureide biosynthesis limits the availability of symbiotically reduced nitrogen to the plant. The nodules of tropical legumes appear to be specialized in nitrogen assimilation and are developmentally controlled to produce and transport ureides.
Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata Walp) embryos mechanically isolated from mature seeds and incubated in the presence of plasmid DNA harboring chimeric gus genes were shown to germinate into seedlings expressing β-glucuronidase activity in a variety of tissues, including the apical meristem. Embryo electroporation in the presence of DNA and protectants such as spermine and Lipofectin(TM) increased both the proportion of embryo-derived seedlings expressing the chimeric gene and the level of gene expression. Microscopic observations of thin sections showed that the blue crystals representing the end product of transgene activity on X-glu were exclusively located inside the treated cells. Histological localization of the blue dye crystals varied with the promoter used to drive the transgene.
Ethylene causes the accumulation of seven different proteins (each designated AZxx according to its molecular mass, xx in kD) in excised primary leaves of azuki bean (Vigna angularis) (F. Ishige, H. Mori, K. Yamazaki, H. Imaseki [1991] Plant Cell Physiol 32: 681-690). A complementary DNA encoding an ethylene-induced basic glycoprotein, AZ42, from azuki bean was cloned and its complete nucleotide sequence was determined. Characterization of the cDNA was accomplished by monitoring expression of an immunoreactive protein in Escherichia coli that harbored the cDNA and by the identification of a partial amino acid sequence that was the same as that determined from the purified protein. An open reading frame (1071 base pairs) in the cDNA encoded a protein of 357 amino acids with a molecular mass of 39.3 kD. The amino acid sequence contained three regions that are highly conserved among peroxidases from eight different plants. Purified AZ42 exhibited peroxidase activity. The basic glycoprotein induced by ethylene was identified as a cationic isozyme of peroxidase. The corresponding mRNA was not present in leaves that had not been treated with ethylene, but it appeared after 1 h of treatment with ethylene and its level increased for the next 15 h. Accumulation of the mRNA was also induced after wounding or treatment with salicylate. The wound-induced increase in the level of the mRNA was suppressed by 2,5-norbornadiene, but the salicylate-induced increase was not.
SbPRP1 is a member of the soybean (Glycine max L. Merr) proline-rich cell wall protein family and is expressed at high levels in root tissue. To characterize the sequences required for this expression, we have fused 1.1 kb of upstream flanking DNA sequence from an SbPRP1 genomic clone to a gene encoding beta-glucuronidase (GUS). This construct was introduced into tobacco using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Histochemical staining of GUS activity in transgenic tobacco indicated that SbPRP1 is expressed in the apical and elongating region of both primary and lateral roots, most strongly in the epidermis. A similar localization pattern was found in transformed hairy roots when this construct was introduced into cowpea (Vigna aconitifolia) using Agrobacterium rhizogenes-mediated transformation. Nested 5'-deletion analysis of the SbPRP1 promoter indicated that a minimal promoter for SbPRP1 expression in roots is located within the first 262 bases of upstream flanking DNA and that the region between -1080 and -262 is required for maximal expression of this gene. Gel retardation assays showed that nuclear factors can be detected in soybean roots which specifically bind to sequences located between -1080 and -623, a region which is needed for maximal expression of the SbPRP1 promoter. Northern hybridization analysis was also used to show that little SbPRP1 mRNA was present in roots during the first 24 h after imbibition. These studies indicate that SbPRP1 expression is localized to the actively growing region of the root and that this expression is temporally regulated during very early stages of seedling growth.
A complementary DNA encoding an ethylene-inducible acidic chitinase of azuki bean (Vigna angularis) was isolated, and its complete nucleotide sequence was determined. The nucleotide and deduced amino-acid sequence were very similar to those of an acidic chitinase from cucumber leaves that had been infected with tobacco necrosis virus. The mRNA for the acidic chitinase was not detected in leaves of azuki bean that had not been treated with ethylene, but it appeared 3 h after initiation of treatment with ethylene and its level gradually increased over a period of 19 h. The mRNA also accumulated in response to salicylate or wounding. The expression of the gene in response to wounding was suppressed by 2,5-norbornadiene, but that in response to salicylate was not affected by this inhibitor.
Cowpea severe mosaic virus (CPSMV) is a member of the comovirus group of messenger-sense RNA viruses with bipartite genomes, of which cowpea mosaic virus (CPMV) is the type member. Full-length copies of CPSMV RNA 1 were cloned in plasmids bearing a bacteriophage T7 promoter. Previously, similar clones of CPSMV RNA 2 had been obtained. A 5'-rUAUUAAAAUUUU sequence is common to RNA 1 and RNA 2. From two RNA 1 clones and four RNA 2 clones we excised non-CPSMV sequences so as to provide templates for in vitro transcripts that have only a single guanylate preceding CPSMV RNA sequences. Transcripts from the most active RNA 1 and RNA 2 clones, when mixed, showed about 5% of the infectivity of unfractionated CPSMV RNAs from virions. The longest, 1858 codon open reading frame of the 5957 nt CPSMV RNA 1 extends from an AUG at nt 257 to a UGA termination codon at nt 5831. The calculated molecular weight of the polyprotein is 208,000. Comparisons with the available amino acid residue (aa) sequence information from the complete CPMV RNA 1 sequence and the partial sequence of red clover mottle virus RNA 1 suggest that CPSMV RNA 1 specifies the expected set of five mature proteins: 32K proteinase cofactor, 58K presumed helicase, VPg 5'-linked protein of the genomic RNAs, 24K proteinase, and 87K presumed polymerase, separated by four cleavage sites. Of the determined and deduced cleavage sites of the three RNA 1 polyproteins, only that at the 24K/87K junction has a distinct aa pair in the CPSMV polyprotein. Of the five proteins, VPg and 87K show the greatest similarity between CPSMV and CPMV, with identities of 68 and 55%, respectively. Published mutational analysis of the CPMV 24K proteinase and alignment of aa sequences from three comoviruses suggest that cysteine-168, histidine-40 and glutamic acid-77 form the catalytic triad of the CPSMV 24K proteinase. Results are discussed in the context of the resistance that some cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) lines exhibit against CPMV but not against CPSMV.
We have cloned and sequenced the pckA gene of Rhizobium sp. NGR234, a broad host-range strain. The gene encodes phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK), a key enzyme of gluconeogenesis. The locus was isolated and subcloned from a genomic library of NGR234 employing hybridization with an R. meliloti pck gene probe and complementation of a Tn5 mutant in this species. The DNA sequence of pckA (NGR234) was determined and encoded a PEPCK protein of 535 amino acids with a molecular weight of 58.4 kDa. The deduced polypeptide sequence was compared to those of three known ATP-dependent PEPCKs. Slightly higher homology was observed with yeast and trypanosome polypeptides than with that of Escherichia coli. We have identified several regions that are conserved in all four PEPCK proteins. A mutant constructed in the pck gene by site-directed mutagenesis with interposon omega failed to grow on succinate, malate and arabinose but grew on glucose and glycerol as sole carbon sources. These data show that NGR234 requires PEPCK-driven gluconeogenesis to grow on TCA cycle intermediates. A host-dependent effect of the pckA mutation was observed on nodule development and nitrogen fixation. Nodules formed by the site-directed mutant on Leucaena leucocephala and Macroptilium atropurpureum were FixRed, but on Vigna unguiculata were Fix-. The expression of the gene was positively regulated in free-living cells of NGR234 by either succinate or host-plant exudates, and was subject to catabolite repression by glucose.
The human proto-oncogene c-MET encodes a heterodimeric 190 kDa transmembrane protein (p190c-met) with structural features of a tyrosine kinase receptor. The ligand for this putative receptor has not yet been identified. By Northern blot hybridization we found that, among a restricted number of human tissues, c-MET is highly expressed in the liver. This prompted us to test the hypothesis of a functional interaction between the c-MET receptor and Hepatocyte Growth Factor (HGF), a heparin-binding polypeptide consisting of heavy and light chains of 65 and 35 kDa. Nanomolar concentrations of highly purified HGF added to GTL-16 cells, which overexpress the c-MET receptor, enhanced the phosphorylation on tyrosine of the p190c-met kinase. Addition of other known growth factors or serum was ineffective. The kinase activity of the c-MET receptor was also stimulated by HGF in an in vitro assay, after detergent solubilization and partial purification of p190c-met. Moreover, elution of immunoprecipitates obtained with anti-MET antibodies from GTL-16 cell lysates yielded an HGF-responsive kinase activity. These results suggest that HGF, or a growth factor structurally related to HGF, is a candidate ligand for the receptor encoded by c-MET.
Subrepeats located in the rDNA intergenic spacer are also present as independently occurring, tandemly arranged satellite DNA clusters in the genome of Vigna radiata (mung bean). These 174-bp satellite repeats are identified as non-rDNA repeats by the presence of an AluI site. In the closely related Vigna angularis (adzuki bean), 174-bp repeats characterized by an AluI site occur in the rDNA with high sequence homology to the V. radiata rDNA subrepeats. A part of the 174-bp element that shows high similarity to a Xenopus terminator box (T2/T3) is slightly modified in V. angularis. However, a characteristic stem-loop structure can be formed, as in the case of V. radiata. Two highly conserved 12-bp regions occur within the 174-bp rDNA repeats of the two plants investigated. One of these 12-bp stretches exhibits some sequence identity to an element repeated twice in the 325-bp repeats in the intergenic spacer region of Vicia faba (broad bean).
Rhizobium species strain NGR234 nodulates at least 35 diverse genera of legumes as well as the nonlegume Parasponia andersonii. Most nodulation genes are located on the 500-kilobase pair symbiotic plasmid, pNGR234a. Previously, three plasmid-borne host range determinants (HsnI, HsnII, and HsnIII) were identified by their ability to extend the nodulation capacity of heterologous rhizobia to include Vigna unguiculata. In this study, we show that HsnII contains two new nod-box linked hsn genes, nodS and nodU.nodS controls nodulation of the tropical tree Leucaena leucocephala, while the nodSU genes regulate nodulation of the pasture legume Desmodium intortum and the grain legume V. unguiculata. Regulation of the nod-box upstream of nodSU by the flavonoid naringenin was shown using a fusion with a promoterless lacZ gene. Determination of the nucleotide sequence of the nodS gene did not reveal homology with any gene in the EMBL library, although Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110 contains both nodS and nodU (M. Göttfert, S. Hitz, and H. Hennecke, Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions 3:308-316, 1990). We suggest that broad host range in NGR234 is controlled in part by a nodD gene which interacts with a wide range of flavonoids, and in part by host-specific nod genes such as nodS.
Inoculation of 2-day-old cowpea (Vigna unguiculata [L.] Walp.) seedlings with Rhizobium fredii USDA257 results in proficient nodulation of the tap root. The most abundant nodulation occurs in a region roughly corresponding to the position of the root tip at the time of inoculation. We have examined plant gene expression in this region, after inoculation with either USDA257 or a nonnodulating mutant, 257B3. After isolation of mRNA and in vitro translation, the protein products were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Seven proteins are induced within 2.5 days after inoculation with USDA257. One additional induced protein is detectable by 3.5 days after inoculation, and three more appear by day 6. Three of the proteins that are differentially expressed at 2.5 and 3.5 days after inoculation are produced at equivalent levels after 6 days, indicating transient induction of these genes during early stages of nodule development. Several proteins were more abundant in translations of mRNA from roots that had been inoculated with the nonnodulating mutant. This was particularly true after 6 days, when nine proteins were in this class. Thus, altered plant gene expression in carefully selected, highly responsive tissue can be detected 2 days before emerging nodules are visible on the roots, and 6 to 7 days before acetylene reduction is detectable. Additionally, comparisons of ionically bound cell wall proteins isolated 6 days after inoculation revealed four that were unique to nodulating roots, suggesting that some of the nodulation-induced genes may code for structural proteins.
In mung bean (Vigna radiata, formerly Phaseolus aureus) one length heterogeneity in the intergenic spacer (IGS) of the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) is due to a variable number of 175-bp subrepeats. This spacer region downstream of the 25S rRNA coding region was characterized by sequencing the 2.4 kb EcoRI/HindIII fragment of a 10.5 kb mung bean rDNA repeat. Within the 175-bp repetitive elements a sequence was detected showing strong similarity to the T2/T3-box (GACTTGC) found in Xenopus rDNA and involved in termination and enhancing transcription. In mung bean this sequence partly forms the stem of a possible stem-loop structure at the 3'end of each subrepeat. Nuclease mapping of transcription termination sites (TTS) results in two signals, 65 bp and 315 bp downstream of the 3'end of the 25S rRNA coding region. The longer transcript terminates 20 bp downstream of the stem-loop structure at the end of the first 175-bp subrepeat. A spacer model is proposed which allows "readthrough enhancement". No cross-hybridization was observed between the 180-bp subrepeats in pea (Pisum sativum) rDNA and the mung bean 175-bp subrepeat.
Products of the gastrin-releasing peptide gene were isolated from culture medium supernatant of a small cell lung cancer line, NCI-H345, by several (high performance liquid chromatography) HPLC steps. The column eluates were monitored by immunoassay and absorbance profiles. Gastrin-releasing peptide was identified in HPLC eluates by a specific radioimmunoassay. Two carboxyl-terminal gastrin-releasing peptide gene-associated peptides were identified by a radioimmunoassay specific for their predicted carboxyl terminus. The amino termini of these two peptides were determined by microsequence analysis. The shorter peptide was revealed to be a fragment of the larger peptide. Expression of an alternate mRNA was shown by isolation and characterization of a novel tetradecapeptide. Amino acid analysis, microsequence analysis, and mass spectral analysis confirmed that the structure was Ser-Leu-Leu-Gln-Val-Leu-Asn-Val-Lys-Glu-Gly-Thr-Pro-Ser. This peptide represents the carboxyl terminus of a peptide resulting from alternate processing of gastrin releasing peptide mRNA. This mRNA contains a 19-base deletion, creating a frame shift. A radioiodinated synthetic analog of this peptide (Tyr-Leu-Val-Asp-Ser-Leu-Leu-Gln-Val-Leu-Asn-Val-Lys-Glu-Gly-Thr-Pro-Ser ) bound specifically to a small cell cancer line with high affinity, suggesting possible biological activity of the isolated peptide.
Transfer of the strain NGR234nodD 1 gene into the narrow host range R. trifolii strain ANU843 on either a 6.7-kb HindIII or 17-kb XhoI fragment broadens the host range of this bacterium to include the tropical legumes Vigna unguiculata, Glycine ussuriensis, Leucaena leucocephala, and siratro (Macroptilium atropurpureum). Contrary to previous data (Bassam et al. 1986), mutagenesis of the 17-kb XhoI fragment with a mini-Mu lac transposon (Mu dII1734) showed that a functional nodD 1 gene was essential for extended host range. Gene expression studies using both Mu dII1734 fusions and a promoter-cloning vector indicated that several loci, including the nodD 1 gene, are constitutively expressed. No evidence was found for regulation of the strain NGR234 nodD 1 gene by its product. Another locus nod-81, was induced only in the presence of exudates from various plant species, including soybean (Glycine max). Whereas the expression of nod-81 was dependent on the presence of a functional nodD 1 gene product, a regulatory nod-box DNA sequence was not detected 5' to this gene by using available oligonucleotide hybridization probes. The nod-81 locus was induced by genistein, daidzein, naringenin, and coumestrol from both cotyledon and root tissue of freshly germinated soybean seedlings. A broad spectrum of commercially available phenolic compounds stimulated induction of the nod-81 locus, including some that antagonize nod gene induction in other Rhizobium species. The nodD 1 gene product from strain NGR234 was shown to determine the spectrum of compounds that induce nod-81 expression.
Previous work has established that the central nervous system can modulate the immune response. Direct routes through which this regulation may occur are the sympathetic and sensory innervation of lymphoid organs. We investigated the innervation of canine mesenteric lymph nodes using immunohistochemistry and the expression of binding sites for sensory neuropeptides using quantitative receptor autoradiography. The sympathetic innervation of lymph nodes was examined by immunohistochemical methods using an antiserum directed against tyrosine hydroxylase (TOH), the rate limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis. TOH-containing fibers were associated with 90% of the blood vessels (arteries, veins, arterioles and venules) in the hilus, medullary and internodular regions of lymph nodes and in trabeculae with no obvious relationship to blood vessels. The sensory innervation of lymph nodes was investigated using antisera directed against the putative sensory neurotransmitters calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P (SP). CGRP- and SP-containing fibers were detected in the hilus, the medullary region, and the internodular region of lymph nodes usually in association with arterioles and venules. About 50% of the arterioles and venules exhibited a CGRP innervation and a smaller fraction (5-10%) were innervated by SP-containing fibers. Few if any TOH, CGRP, and SP nerve fibers were detected in the germinal centers of lymph nodes. Using quantitative receptor autoradiography we studied the distribution of receptor binding sites for the sensory neuropeptides CGRP, SP, substance K (SK), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), somatostatin (SOM), and bombesin. Specific CGRP binding sites were expressed throughout lymph nodes by trabeculae, arterioles, venules and 25% of the germinal centers. SP receptor binding sites were localized to arterioles and venules in the T cell regions and 25-30% of the germinal centers. VIP binding sites were localized to the internodular and T cell regions, to medullary cords, and to 10-20% of germinal centers. SK, SOM, and bombesin binding sites were not detected in the lymph nodes, although receptor binding sites for these peptides were detected with high specific/nonspecific binding ratios in other canine peripheral tissues. Taken together with previous results these findings suggest that the sympathetic and sensory innervation of mesenteric lymph nodes appears to be involved with the regulation of their blood and lymph flow. The neuropeptide receptor binding sites in lymph node germinal centers may be expressed by lymphocytes upon activation by antigens.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Random transcription fusions with Mu d1(Kan lac) generated three mutants in Rhizobium fredii (strain USDA 201) which showed induction of beta-galactosidase when grown in root exudate of the host plants Glycine max, Phaseolus vulgaris, and Vigna ungliculata. Two genes were isolated from a library of total plasmid DNA of one of the mutants, 3F1. These genes, present in tandem on a 4.2-kilobase HindIII fragment, appear in one copy each on the symbiotic plasmid and do not hybridize to the Rhizobium meliloti common nodulation region. They comprise two separate transcriptional units coding for about 450 and 950 nucleotides, both of which are transcribed in the same direction. The two open reading frames are separated by 586 base pairs, and the 5H regions of the two genes show a common sequence. No similarity was found with the promoter areas of Rhizobium trifolii, R. meliloti, or Bradyrhizobium japonicum nif genes and with any known nodulation genes. Regions homologous to both sequences were detected in EcoRI digests of genomic DNAs from B. japonicum USDA 110, USDA 122, and 61A76, but not in genomic DNA from R. trifolii, Rhizobium leguminosarum, or Rhizobium phaseoli. Mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance analysis indicated that the inducing compound has properties of 4',7-dihydroxyisoflavone, daidzein. These results suggest that, in addition to common nodulation genes, several other genes appear to be specifically induced by compounds in the root exudate of the host plants.
Direct gene transfer proved to be an efficient transformation method for Vigna aconitifolia, a member of the legume family. Kanamycin resistant calli and plants were regenerated from heat shocked protoplasts treated with PEG and plasmid DNA containing the coding region for aminoglycoside phosphotransferase gene (NPT II). The plant cultivar used was an important factor in attaining higher transformation frequencies. Transformation was confirmed by Southern blot analysis using a non-radioactive detection system. Attempts to transform mesophyll and suspension cultured cells by this method were unsuccessful. Protoplasts electroporated with the plasmid pCAP212, which codes for chloramphenicol acetyltransferase, exhibited transient expression of this gene two days after treatment while electroporated cells did not show this enzyme activity. It is therefore assumed that the DNA uptake is prevented by the cell wall.
We have found major evolutionary changes in the types of transcripts produced by specific chloroplast genes, in particular those encoding the large subunit (LS) of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase and a photosystem II polypeptide (PII). Two distinct patterns of LS gene transcripts are revealed by hybridizing an LS gene probe to electrophoretically separated RNA from 19 angiosperms. Most species, including pea, contain the single transcript of approximately 1.6 kb previously observed in corn, spinach and mustard. However, in mung bean and other members of the legume genera Vigna and Phaseolus, the 1.6 kb transcript represents only a minor fraction of LS transcripts, and instead, two larger LS transcripts of approximately 2.4 and 2.6 kb predominate. The PII gene produces a single transcript in pea and most other species examined, while members of the related legume genera Vigna, Phaseolus and Glycine contain two additional transcripts which are smaller in size and probably represent specific RNA breakdown products. A single species, sweet pea (Lathyrus odoratus), contains a second PII transcript which is 0.2 kb larger than the approximately 1.2 kb transcript found in all species. The LS and PII genes map to the same 5 kb region in both pea and mung bean and are transcribed off the same DNA strand. In contrast, published studies indicate that the two genes are approximately 50 kb apart and are transcribed off opposite DNA strands in five other chloroplast genomes. These differences are probably the consequence of an approximately 50 kb inversion which distinguishes the pea and mung bean genomes from those of most other angiosperms (1).
Chloroplast and whole leaf cell RNA from Vigna sinensis, a C3 plant were used as exogenous templates for translation in a cell-free light-dependent system of isolated chloroplasts from Sorghum vulgare, a C4-type plant. Analysis of immunoprecipitates of the translated products with the total cellular RNA on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gels revealed the synthesis of both the subunits of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase. Similar analysis of the product translated with the RNA from Vigna chloroplasts, indicated the synthesis of only the large subunit of the carboxylase. Apparently the chloroplast protein synthetic machinery is capable of translating the mRNA for the smaller subunit of this protein as well, which is known to be translated in the cytoplasmic ribosomal system. Sufficient quantities of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase were synthesised in vitro in the preincubated chloroplast system with the whole cell RNA from the C3 plant to assay the ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate-dependent carboxylation. The newly synthesised protein in the cell-free system is identical in many ways to the native enzyme including the Mg2+ concentration-dependent shift in pH optima towards neutral side. It is specifically inhibited by anti-native ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate.
